

AITKEN’S ALE. “DICKENS”’ WHISKY.
LIFE BUOY BRAND.
WHSS BEST inr THE MARKET.
USED BY THE LATE CHARLES DICKENS,
AM) SUPPLIED TO THE PRINCIPAL CLUBS IN SUBNET.
A-ttwood,
251 Sydney. Sole A.genta for Mew Soutli Wales.
HOTEL
Street, S“SrZD2^r^"ST-
UNBJVALDED ACCOMMODATION.
Dickson’s Hotel,
“Bull! X>ass.» “LoolE-Out.» “WlaliisaLS -Well-”
DISTANCE FROM SYDNEY, 42 MILES. HORSES AND VEHICLES ON HIRE.
WM. DICKSON - . -
18-0.111-
“ Location Waterfalls*
EVERY ACCOMMODATION.
- Proprietor.
NEW YORK LIFE INSURANCE CO
LIFE ASSURANCE ONLY. PURELY MUTUAL.
STATEMENT FOR YEAR ENDING Slst DECEMBER, 188 A
Income for year ending 1889 ...
Amount New Business during 1889 ... ... M ,
Accumulated Funds Slst December, 1889... ... ... ...
Surplus by the New York State Standard
Total Amount Paid to Living Members during last 45 yean, in Endowments,
Dividends, &c.
Paid to Representatives of Deceased Members
Amount of Interest received on Investments
Incontestable Non-Forfeiting Free Tontine Policies
Secures VALUABLE INVESTMENT FEATURES, in combination with INSURANCE at LOW COST. Guaranteed
options at the end of Tontine period.
The POLICIES, as now issued, are notably free from restrictions as to Occupation, Residence and Travel; are
v incontestable after Two Years, except in case of fraud.
CLAIMS are payable in the colonies at the nearest Branch Office, in sterling, and all Disputed Claims (in any
should arise) in Australia are to be decided by Australian Courts.
Chief Offices, Department of Australasia: ... BOND STREET CHAMBERS, SYDNEY.
JOSIAH SOWSXiXi, General Manager.
16,317,633 0 0
10,296,348 0 0
10,878,708 0 0
£6,000,672 1 3
31,094,463 0 0
21,615,967 5 5
3,209,876 10 10
35=
d
ď
đ
Grand Novelty! Grand Novelty!
FOE MARKING
LINEN, PAPER, ENVELOPES, bo.
Special Monograms.
New System, more perfect than the Rubber. New
Invention. Prizes from the New Orleans (U.S.) sad
Melbourne Exhibitions. Prices. —Medium Monograms,
with box and bottle of Indelible Ink for marking XeaesL
Paper, Collars, Cuffs, and Handkerchiefs, Price 4/- in
Sydney, 4/6 in New South Wales, 5/- in other Colonies.
L. Sbrager, 19 Maoquarie-Place, Op. Esc *ngo.
J. & C. HOWARD.
Howard’s Colonist 8-Furrow Digging
Plough.—(8.Z.0.1)
Howard's Single-Furrow Digging
Plough.—
Tlxe Plougti of fixe Times!
PLOUGHING AND HARROWING IN ONE ACT.
Share Points only cost 6d., and are Reversible.
Ohaw-Outtbbs, Hok.se Gbaks and every kind of Agricultural Implements
TUT STOCK.
Enquirers please quote this paper.
280 i PITT STREET, SYDNEY
(Cornsr of Pitt akd Bathubst Smnrcs).
—the-
LONDON & SYDNEY TEA COMPANY,
408
Street, S’X'ID IKT 3ES'
M
'£
CS
= NL_
OUR BLENDER AT WORK ON INDIA AND ODIN,
HIGH-CLASS TEAS,
Packed in 201 b. and 401 b. Packages,
At la. CkL, la. Od. and 2s. per lib.
New Customers please enclose Bemittaaoe or
Reference.
Speciality: A Single Package at Wholesale Pike.
The Bulletin
Yol. 11—No. 544]
[Saturday, July 19, 1890.


TOBACCO
Ml
DIXSOPSONS
Customs Returns.
American Leaf.
Dizson and Sons consumed in 1888, 52,592 lbs.
more, and in 1889 (over 44 tons) 98,939 lbs. more
American Leaf than all the rest of New South
Wales put together.
DIXSON’S TOBACCOS having the largest
•ale of any in Australia are—
me.
*
*
o
o
so
o
X
V
o
SIR ROGER
Dr. RIDGE’S
FOOD
foe INFANTS and INVALIDS
“ This is the MOST PKRFFOT FOOD
we hare examined.”—Chas. Eh Piesse,
M.R.C.S., F.C.S., &c. Wm, Johnstone,
Ph.D., F.C.S., &c., Public Analysts.
DR- RIDGE'S ROYAL rOOD MILLS
LONDON, ENGLAND,
m
ISM
m-yi
AUCTIONEERS & ESTATE AGENTS
=
siiii
Insure Your Health Against All Risks
—BY TAKING—
Kruse's Fluid Magnesia.
It Cools the Blood, Promotes a Healthy Flow of the Secretions
and Fortifies* the System against the Shafts of Disease.
The Best Aperient For Children. Numerous Gold Medals.
SUPEHEtIOPI to all OTHERS?
(Vide Medical Testimonials, Analysis, &c., accompanying each Bottle.)
X X
TAKE ONEY KKUSE’S
BAILEE & CO.,
General Auctioneers and Estate Agents,
325 Collins Street, Melbourne, and 14 Chapel
Street, SontU Yarra.
r ATKINSON’S T
ENGLISH PERFUMERY
aurpasses all others for its natural
fragrance.
ESSENCE OF WHITE ROSE
FRANGIPANNE
STEPHANOTIS
YLANG YLANG
OPOPANAX
and other well-known Perfumes are
unequalled for their delightful and
lasting odour.
Of all Dealeri, and of the Manufacturers—
J. & E. ATKINSON,
24, OLD BOND STREET, LONDON.
Trade Mark-' 1 White Rose "on Golden
Lyre, with Address in full. V
A GOLDEN S H ANTI
PRICE > ONE SHILLING.
Sold in Bottles at Is. 3d., 2s. 6d., 3s. 6d. Each.
Wholesale Agents: Messrs. ELLIOTT Bros., Ltd
clarendon hotel, manly,
The Brighton of New South Wales.
Am ,1,. rT A-RENDON HOTEL, Banquets, Suppers, Private Dinners, Evening Parties, etc., are
T Shortest Notice in the Large Dining Hall. Besides hating a most recherche
served o r balconies the magnificent view of the sea and surrounding country,
Dinner, yonfact, everything that c»„ po»ibb m*M».
here also you can Oave g reJ h lv first-class hotel. Fishing and Picnic. Parties provided. Table
OWclocrifiy and Sundays. No expense is spared by Mrs. KILMINSTEB to make her
visitors comfortable and her Hotel the best in the colony.
-gz-TTT .TvmxrSTEK., Claremaon Hotel,
Opposite OCEAN BEACH, MANLY.
g. goeetz,
Stock and Share Broker,
GIAL
BRISBANE
Member of the Brisbane Stock Exchange.
THOMAS M‘CREERY s
MEDICAL HERBALIST,
83 Oxford Street, 4 doors above Eiley Street.
Private Diseases of Both Sexes a Speciality.
Consultations Gratis. Charges very Moderate.
4 Trial Solicited.
A SPEEDY CURE GUARANTEED.
TT IST DRY OF BOTANY BAY.
PRICE ; ONE SHILLING.
68 Hunter Street, and 8 Bligli Street,
SYDNEY.
p. SHBOEDBB
LIVERY, BAIT, LET-OUT AND COMMIS-
SION STABLES.
Horses and Vehicles of every description for
Sale or Hire; also, good reliable Ladies or Gentle-
men’s Hacks.
THE BALLARAT COFFEE PALACE,
LydiarD Street, Ballarat.
YISITORS to the Golden City will find every
convenience at the above Establishment®
The Only Coffee Palace in Ballarat.
MODERATE CHARGES.
HEID & SONS ... ... Proprietors.
A GOLDEN SHANTY
PRICE : ONE SHILLING.
WHY
YOU SHOULD USE
LARMER’S
CELEBRATED
HEALTH-GIVING
AND
INVIGORATING TONIC.
It is used and endorsed by all Physicians
because it is the best.
It is superior to all other Tonies.
For the Liver, Kidneys and Blood it has
no equal.
It is wonderful as a Flesh Producer,
ft is the best remedy for Wasting Diseases,
Sick Headaches, Bilious Complaints, Fever,
and Ague, N euralgla, &c.
Price, 2s 6d and ss; By post, Is extra.
PREPARED OH IT BT
CAINS & CO., Chemists,
78 KING STREET.
For Sale by all ChemtsU
K. w, »Oo
CARLSBAD
natural mineral waters
are now imported in bottles and used In treat-
ment of CHRONIC GASTRIC CATARRH, HYPER-
CEHIA of the LIVER, GALL STORES, CHRONIC
CONSTIPATION, DIABETES, RENAL CALCULI,
GOUT, and diseases of the spleen arising from
residence in the tropics or malarious districts.
THE NATURAL
CARLSBAD SPRUDEL-SALT
In small and frequent doses is an efficient
DIURETiC.but as an APERIENT It should be taken
BEFORE BREAKFAST, in doses of from 1 to 2 tea-
spoonfuls, dissolved in water. To increase the
APERIENT action of the Carlsbad Mineral Water,
a teaspoonful of the Salt, previously dissolved
in water should be added.
SOLE CONSIGNEES for the U.K. and the Colonift
INGRAM & ROYLE, 52, Farringdon St., London,
And of all Chemists throughout the World.
The Natural Mineral Waters of
{STATE
□HID
SPRINGS.)
GRAM DE-GRILLE. —For Affections of the
Liver, Biliary Organs, &c.
CELESTIN3.—For the Kidneys, Gravel, Gout
Rheumatism, Diabetes, &c.
HOPITAL. — For Stomach Complaints.
HAUTERIVE. —An excellent Table Water.
OF ALL CHEMIST* IN AUSTRALASIA,
3§&
Purchasers should see that the Label on every bottle of the original
WORCESTERSHIRE SAUCE
■ r- bears the Signature, thus :
Ask for Lea & Perrins’ Sauce, and see Name on Wrapper, Label. Bottle and Stopper.
Wholesale and for Export bu the Proprietors. Worcester - Crosse $ Blackwell, London, sc., #«.;
and by Grocers and Oilmen throughout the H 07 la
NOW READY—To be had from all News-Agents and Booksellers.
“ A GOIjDSIT SH-A-ITTTr: ”
Australian Sketches in Prose and Verse,
By ‘‘BULLETIN” Writers.
Size, Demy Octavo —with Handsome Coloured Illustrated Cover.
• ■ ■■■ 1,11.;..11 ' ■ V'i if i T ""! v ' ! " ri -JJlj; '
Price - ONE SHILLING; per Post, Is. 3d.


Medical.
•a
UVIiKY HOUSEHOliD—especially where
.here are ycang cuiklren—should be provided
with Ayer's Cherry Pectoral, the prompt use of
which has saved innumerable lives. Its effect
is immediate and certain. It stops coughing, pro-
motes expectoration, and soothes the irritated
membrane. The most famous and successful
Cough-Cure
in the world, it has no equal as a remedy for
asthma, bronchitis, inflamed tonsils, loss of
voice, 'whooping-cough, croup, and the sudden
pulmonary complaints to which children are
liable. Taken in the early stages of consump-
tion, it often cures that disease and always
chocks its progress; and even at a later period
in the malady, it relieves the distressing cough
and induces needful repose. A safe, palatable,
and economical medicine, Ayer’s Cherry Pecto-
ral should be always at hand in ease of an mi.
f irescon and sudden emergency.
p’s Cherry Pectora
]*RKTAILED BY
Dr. J. C. AYER & C 0„ Lowell. Mass., U. S. A.
bold by Druggists and Medicine Vendors.
ď
WHO IS
WEAK
d
Nervous & Debilitated
Who in Ins youth lias tiifled away his vigour of body
mind, and manhood, should consult PROFESSOK
CARL STINEWAY, the Eminent Specialist,
in diseases of the Genito-Urinary Organs, who is
still treating with the greatest skill and success all
Private, Nervous and Chronic Diseases.
Professor STINE WAY'S success, which has
become so firmly established throughout Australasia,
is based upon the facts : —ist. That every case treated,
even in its most remote effects, is specially studied,
thus starting aright. 2nd. The Medicines used arc
exactly adapted to suit the case, and are compounded
from the purest, freshest, and refined ingredients,
thus promptly producing results without overdosing
or injury.
I seek cases where all else has failed.
Young and middle-aged men and others, who
suffer from Nervous and Physical Debility ,
Exhausted Vitality, Premature Decline, etc..,
can recover the same degree of health, strength,
and energy experienced in former years, bv
consulting (in person or by letter'which 'is
free), Professor STINE WAY. who has re-
stored thousands of sufferers to vigorous man-
hood after all other treatment had failed. It
makes no difference so hat you have taken, or
who has failed to cure you. 'Cases that I accept
for treatment are quickly and permanently
cured.
DO ANY Of THE FOLLOWING SYMPTOMS,
OR CLASS OF SYMPTOMS MEET YOUR
DISEASED CONDITION : -Arc you a sufferer
from bad health in any of its many forms, consequent
on a lingering Nervous, Chronic, or .Functional
Disease ? Do you feel nervous, debilitated, fretful,
timid, and lack the power of will and action ?
Are you subject to loss of memory ; have spells of
fainting; fullness of blood in the head; feel listless,
moping, unfit for business or pleasure, and subject to
fits of melancholy? Are your kidneys, stomach,
urinary organs, liver, or blood in a disordered con-
dition ? Do you suffer from Rheumatism, Neuralgia,
or other aches and pains? Are you timid, nervous,
and forgetlul with your mind continually dwelling on
the subject ? Have you lost confidence in yourself,
and energy for business pursuits ? Arc you subject
to restless nights, broken sleep, dreams, palpitation
ot the heart, bashfulness, confusion of ideas, aversion
to society, dizziness in the head, dimness of sight,
pimples on the face and back, and other desponding
symptoms ? If you are afflicted, why further neglect
four health or future happiness, when by a single con'
sultation (which costs nothing) you can be placed on
the way to health, strength, and vigour?
All correspondence held sacred. A speedy
and perfect life cure is guaranteed in all cases
I undertake, where doubt exists the sufferer is
frankly informed.
Persons living at a distance who desire
treatment without delay can, by forwarding a
full description ol their case and fi, receive
by teturn of post the medicines required.
Do not despair, even though all others have
failed in your case. A T o matter what your
complaint may be, call or write—l will cure
you. If you are ill, do not delay IMy vast
experience enables me to guarantee a positive
alt cases undertaken. CONSUL-
NATIONS FREE. Med fines sent secure
from observation to any part of Australasia.
“Freni Bondage to Freedom,” my
latest work on Private, Nervous and
Uirome Diseases, should be read by
every man; nearly one hundred
pages. By post, two stamps.
Pa *nc^, ri E tei l grantee given in all
aadertaken, and no promises
made that age, integrity, and long
experience do not justify.
to Freedom. V eatise “ From Bondage
Iddnss; Professor CARL STINEWAY,
23 Elizabeth St,, Sydney, N.S.ff.
Offices and Parlors—Rooms 2, 3, 4 cr 5,
Consulting Room —6.
Laboratory & Drug Warehouse —
Hunter Street.
SomotMug IVew.
printed on Forty (-10) beautiful
- d Bf >Ani b T ed J ISITING CARDS, comprising’ Floral
FOR®SHnte- Bl l d / &c - No two a,iko - ALL
want*a t. "LUNG in Stamps, postage paid. Agents
wanted. Samples free. Address- ° mS
Austral Card and Sovclly < •>,,
it Hukier Street, SYDNEY,
IMPORTERS OF
Eailway & Bridge Contractors’
Plumbers’
Squatters’
or
CD
%
£
I!
•Kiiinuni
giilliiw*
Willi®
HMIII
6
£
CO
<
kj
A
V/
V
Business Ann o uuc c ii.er.te.
r
X , 's
□
A
a a a
a
si i
Dias
ROB B RT S & CO
-W H? 0 RESALE-
Ironmongers, Importers, Iron and Machinery Merchants,
HAY AND ENGINE STREETS SYDNEY
Head Office: 85 Graced lurch Street, London, E.C.
Requirements
IN
Great Variety.
IMPORTERS OF
Engineers’ and Blacksmiths’
Conchbuilders'
Mining
„ A . , „ „ . , AGENTS FOE:
Buglnes-The best and cheapest yet made. Automatic self-governing, thus saving cost Of gas.
Braddook S W ater and Gas Meters and Gas Lamps. Reading Iron Works Universal (Split) Pulley Wheels.
Howe’S Platform and Counter Weighing Machines and Weighbridges.
I
A
k
f
X**
3fc.
<3
68
CLARENCE Si
SYDNEY.
AGENTS
jn New South Wales
* TRIUMPH
ofTheGood.Spirit over gAu.
L sed in hospitals throughout the world in preference to the
best French Brandy. THY IT.
PRINCE OF WALES’ HOTEL,
St. Kilda, Victoria.
Within Five Minutes from STATION, and One Minute from ESPLANADE and BATHS.
MRS. KONG MENG ... ... Proprietress.
1
■ r
BUGGIES, CARRIAGES,
WAGGONS,
HARNESS, etc.
Machinery of all kinds,
WILLIAM FLEMING,
32 & 21 Clarence Street,,
SYDNEY;
anti at 2 St. James’ BiiiltUnifg,
MELSOUHITE,
Business Announcements.
MASON BROTHERS,
LIMITED.
263 to 259 KENT STREET,
SYDNEY,
Have always in Stock for Sale to the
Trade and Wholesale Buyers Only,
Ironmongery, and
GENERAL HARDWARE
Cilass, China and
EARTHENWARE
WINES. BEERS <(■ SPIRITS,
AND GENERAL
BULK MERCHANDISE.
Agents tor
.1 011 N WAL K E R and SONS
Old Highland Whisky.
LUCIEN FOUGAULD & GO.’S
Old Brandies.
J. T. GAYEN’S,
Schnapps and Geneva.
A. MELVIN and SONS*
Edinburgh Pale Ale,
rj*
isixnxrGr,
SCENIC and Pol! Tit AIT PHOTOQE APH EE,
31G GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
- FOR—
Catalogue of the most Complete Series of Views to
he obtained in Australia.
Jenolan Caves, Hawkesbury arid Nepean Elvers,
iiiuc Mountains, Harbour and Coast Views,
Victorian and New Zealand Views.
Groups of Australian Aboriginals and South Sea
Island Natives, &c., &c.
ff. H. SMITH & SON,
MANUFACTUEEES & IMPOETEES OF
JWg 71N D OfIPS,
302 George Street, Sydney,
3 Doors South of Hunter Street.
> ..
v
A Large Assort
aient of English anc
French Goods, from
the best Makers to
choose from.
Every description
of HATS and CAPS
made to Onto.
Medical.
-■3
<e
0/ cru
TO •S-OXJKT& MEN.
DR. FLETCHER’S
TREATISE OK NERTOUS DISEASES, THEIR CAUSE.
SYMPTOMS, TREATMENT, AND CURE.
THE directions contained in this little treatise will be
found of immense benefit to the sufferer; and if these
directions are observed during the early stages of Nervous
or Sexual Debility, No Medicines will be required, as, by
observing the directions given, the patient can Cure Him-
self.
This admirable little treatise is specially written to
show a method of counteracting the evil effects of indis-
cretions in early life —overwork, irregularity in eating or
drinking, &c. It is the result of much study and long
and successful experience in the treatment of diseases,
and contains a fund of useful information to every suf-
ferer from the following complaints, viz. Nervous
Debility, Dizziness, Specks before the Eyes, Pains in the
Back, Defective Memory, Loss of Will Power, Loss of
Energy, Spermatorrhoea, Bashfulness, Discontentedness,
Constipation, Liver and Kidney Derangements, Atrophy,
Impotence, Impure Blood, Foul Taste in Mouth, Palpita-
tion of Heart, Wakefulness, Despondency, Excessive Ner-
vousness, Inability to Marry, Premature Decay, and other
symptoms experienced by nervous sufferers.
All Should Send for this Little Treatise.
If the complaint is of long standing and requires
medicine. Dr. Fletcher will GUARANTEE TO CURE
ANY CASE OF NERVOUS or SEXUAL DEBILITY
with ONE COURSE OF MEDICINES LASTING FIVE
WEEKS, and will send with medicines A WRITTEN
GUARANTEE to cure same or return the monies paid.
Dr. Fletcher’s treatment is both simple and effective,
and within the reach of the poorest. It is unlike any
other, and with it he has cured over 25,000 patients, and
invites patients to investigate his statements by verifying
the.testimonials published in his treatise. The treatise
will be forwarded on receipt of two stamps to cover
postage.
CONSULTATION BY LETTER, FREE.
Address in first instance—
DR. h. EWART FLETCHER,
Box uir. G.P.O.
Sydney, N.S.W.
Private address—Clonmel House, Waverley, Sydney.
Remember, all cases undertaken, guaranteed, and a
signed agreement given, which provides that NO COST
be incurred by the patient if a cure is not effected.
VARICOCELE RADICALLY CURED WITHOUT
OPERATION.
Mention this Paper.
IN THE PRESS,
£ -A- OOT-JDSlsr SIEE.A.DNTT'-vy’
Bw “BULLETIN'’ 'WRITER S.


m
A, pleasantly-situated Property, thoroughly cleared, close to Liverpool Station. Torrens’ Title. £1 deposit; 10s. per month.
-A.. W. STEPHEN, 28 CASTLEBEAGH STREET,
“ A Golden Shanty.” A Selection from the brightest of the original literary matter which has made The Bulletin world-famous. Price, Is. : posted, 3d. extra.
The Australian Mercantile Loan and
Guarantee Co. (Limited).
Head Office :
fORXER MARKET ami PITT STREETS
' .SYDNEY,
Melbourne—2B3 Col lins-st root East.
Mrishane —Confer Edward and Elisabeth Streets.
Newcastle—37 Hunter-street.
SPECIAL NOTICE.
The London Offices of the Company are now
open for the transaction of business, situate at
Ko, 110 Canon Street, E.C.
The Company _ grant immediate advances upon
approved securities, for fixed terms, or repayable
by instalments.
Interest Allowed ou Deposits
3 months ... 6 per cent.
n
A. MILLER ... General Manager.
-THE-
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL
FIRE
Insurance Society.
Established ... ... 1572.
Bonuses
OF
20 per cent. Paid Annually
since 1873.
Head Office
THE
Oldest Mutual Fire Office
in Australia.
Claims promptly and liberally
settled. Fifteen days’grace
allowed for Renewal of Policies.
Lowest Current Rates charged.
lion, (tenr'je, Thornton, M.L.C.,
Chairman.
Head Office:
Corner Pitt & King Streets,
SYDNEY.
Walter Church ... Manager.
THE
Australian Banking Company,
LIMITED.
PITT niul MARKET STREETS, SYDNEY,
Incorporated under the Companies Act, 187 U,
Authorised Capital, £500,000, in 100,000 Shares of £5 each.
Subscribed Capital, £150,000 ; Paid-up, 100,000.
FRANCIS ABIGAIL, M.L.A.,
Chairman of the Board of Directors.
A Branch of the Bank has been opened at Goulburn
under the management of C. H. Atkinson, Esq. (lately
Branch Manager of the Bank of New South Wales) for the
transaction of General Banking Business.
The Bank has,paid its Shareholders a dividend of 10 per
cent, every half-year since its formation.
The Bank transacts all usual banking business in every
particular.
Special advantages granted to Commercial Clients.
Overdrafts granted against deposit of Deeds.
THE HIGHEST RATES OF INTEREST GIVEN FOR
FIXED DEPOSITS.
The Share Register is now open for the allotment of
Shares—New Issue.
By order of the Board of Directors.
RODERICK M'NAMARA, Manager.
Forms of application for Shares may be obtained at the
Bank.
F. LASSETTER
AND
C 9
LIMITED
The BEST, CHEAPEST and LARGEST HARDWARE HOUSE in the World.
Steel Bronzed,
3-light,
Prioe ... 17/6
Steel Bronzed,
2-light,
Price ... 15/-
Of-uor D .aigns
iu S light
at
2M-. 35/- sft;-. 6V-
5-iigiit,
40/- 00/- 70/-
A splendid
assortment on
view in our
Show - rooms.
Gr&s&lier
Squad Arms, with rosettes.
2-Light, 16/6 ... • ... 3-Light, 20/-
i
P
anas.
The Mew Tile Fireplace,
MARBLE MANTEL in WHITE, REP or ST. ANNS
TILE FRONT (as shown), £5 12s. 6<l. ; INTERIOR GRATE, £2
Other designs of Tile Fronts at 705., 80s. and 100 a. each.
7s. each.
Steel
Bronaed,
Coloured
Panes,
7in. square,
HALL
LIGHT,
Price,
10/6 each.
Other
Designs
at
15/. 21/-
30/- 40/-
Best and
Largest
Stock
of
Ohandelieri
in the
Colonies.
Gasaliera
Brackets,
Lamps,
Begi»tei
Grates.
Heating
Stoves,
Coal
Vases,
Fenders,
Fire
Brasses,
&0., &c.
Hall Lights.
JS& I
~nj
Particulars and Illustrations (post
free) on application.
CITY MUTUAL FIRE INSURANCE
COMPANY. Limited.
Established 1877. .
Subscribed Capital JC150.000.
Head Offices removed to
95 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
(U doors hr!civ limiter ’Street.)
A Cash Bonds of 10 per cent, is paid to Policyholders
on renewals every year. Insurances covering boss by Fire,
Lightning or Gas Explosion at Lowest Kates.
Note the Address—
NEW OFFICES, 95 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
(4 doors below Hunter Street.)
N.B.—The Bonus paid is equal to that paid by any
Fire Company in Sydney.
ROBERT KERR, Manager.
Arbor Vitas,
The Great Life Remedy <0 Tonic Tnv'ujomtor,
IS the Best and Only Medicine which shows a
good result from the moment yon take the
first dose. It acts on the blood like a charm, and
tones the internal secretions to healthy action,
restores strength to the stomach, and enables it to
perform its functions ; and for regulating the liver
and kidneys it has no equal. Price —4s. per
package. Also the Great Cure for Catarrh and
Influenza —the Arbor Vitse Oil, 2s. fid. per
bottle. Sold by all Storekeepers and Druggists.
Sole Agents for New South Wales—
Oa.n Suth.erlanci & Co.
Wholesale anp Retail Tobacconists,
84 King Street, Newtown, SYDNEY.
Hotel Metropole,
Bent, Phillip & Young Streets, Sydney.
READ THIS
Western Australia is a much richer colony than is
generally supposed as regards minerals, agriculture and
pastoralism.—Sir Samuel Griffith.
Professor Brown, of Victoria, who made a thorough
examination of the south-western portion of Western
Australia; states that not the other colonies only, but
even the people of Western Australia evidently do not
know how much there is waiting for development. He
saw thousands of acres in contiguous blocks of fine choco-
late lands, light clay loams, and peatv soils. He thinks
the important features of thedistrict are its grand climate
and regular rainfall.
“ History repeats itself,” and as surely as Sydney and
Melbourne have made lightning-like progress, so will
PERTH,'
the Capital of West Australia.
TEN POUND BUILDING SITES
at PERTH, WESTERN AUSTRALIA.
Large Allotments, Splendid Position, Good Land.
Only £1 deposit, easy terms ; discount for cash. Buyers
of five lots receive a free deed. Title (Torrens’s) guaran-
teed to be indisputable.
Also, CITY LOTS, from £33 each,
on similarly easy terms.
Markedjdans and pamphlets posted to any address on
application to
THE INTERCOLONIAL INVESTMENT
COMPANY, Limited,
96 Bathurst-street, Sydney,
W. .1. DOUGLAS, Manager.
Sent Post Free Everywhere.
GARRARD & HAMILTON, Auctioneers - - 70 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.


The Bulletin
Pol 11—No. 544
SATURDAY, JULY 19, 1890.
Price, 64.
WHAT IT IS COMING TO.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
"Australia for the Australians,"
Proprietors i BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO.,
Limited.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 24 PITT-STREKT, SYDNEY, NEW SOUTH WALES.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(payable in advance, only).
Per Annum £lO 0
Half-yearly 0 12 6
Quarterly 0 6 6
Cheques, Drafts, etc. , and all Business Communications
to he addressed to William Macleod, Managing Director.
Literary Communications to he addressed to J. F.
Archibald.
The Editor will carefully read and acknowledge in the
“Correspondence’ column all contributions submitted
whether in the form of Political, Social . or other Articles,
Verse, Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in
length, or say 3000 words, are specially acceptable).
Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper-Clippings. All
communications will be regarded as strictly confidential.
“ The Bulletin ” will return all unavailable MSS. when
■he address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we
■Jesirc those sending MSS. to distinctly understand that
ice are not responsible for the preservation or transmission
if such MSS.
NOTICE.
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty Shillings
sterling—which you may pay by Post Office Order, One
Pound Note, or Stamps of any Australian colony—you
can have The Bulletin posted regularly to you every week
for a year.
This offer is not open to residents of Sydney. In that
city The Bulletin is not delivered by mail, but is entirely
in the hands of our carriers, with whom we do not wish
to interfere.
SATURDAY. JULY If), 1890.
The Revolt of the Jury.
Eesexgh Martin’s libellous lucubrations did,
as events proved, an unqualified service to
the public character of New South Wales
Railway Commissioner Eddy. They gave
that official a favorable opportunity of show-
ing that he had not, in certain widely-can-
vassed transactions, abused the trust his
employers reposed in him. Now it appears
that the sentence of two years’ hard labour
meted out to the libeller may be made to
contribute somewhat towards the attainment
of another object—an object beside which
the restitution to Mr. Eddy of the filched
slice of his official reputation is of but very
slender moment. One of the jurors who
found Martin guilty wrote to the newspapers
a few days ago, saying that, had he known
Judge M‘Fab. land would impose a sentence
so monstrously out of proportion with the
malignity of the offence, nothing.but physical
exhaustion would have induced him to concur
,in the finding. Another juror writes to say
that he was trapped into a verdict by the
Crown Prosecutor s declaration that it was no
part of the jury’s duty to consider Martin’s
intentions or motives when he wrote the libel.
It is not the novelty of these j Urors’ sentiments
which suggests reflection. Many jurors, and
many a jury, on finding the verdict cast by
them followed by a a blind or a
savage punishment have privately wished
that they could take the finding back. These
two jurors step into the open, however, and
dissent from the sentence in language which
indicates that when next called upon for a
verdict, they will make it their business to
find out, not alone what is the fact, but
whether the law under which it falls is blind,
vindictive or savage.
* * *
For generations it has been insisted that
the whole duty of man as a juror was to
pronounce on the fact of the guilt or inno-
cence of an accused. The kind and degree
of the punishment to be inflicted were
authoritatively excluded from his considera-
tion. If he became aware that an offence,
venial in his eyes, was to be followed by a
punishment, barbarous in his eyes, he was
instructed to relegate the latter fact, to for-
getfulness and devote his entire energies to
the investigation of the first. As a matter
of orderly thinking the instruction was no
doubt commendable One part of a" subject
should be completed at a time But
gradually jurors discovered that by obeying
the instruction to the letter they passed
persons on to punishments greatly in
excess of the enormity of their crimes.
Now came conflict. The juror out of
joint with law was met by a legal
obligation on one side and by a duty to his
conscience on the other. He could refuse to
pass the culprit on and break his oath, or
act up to his oath and constitute himself an
accomplice in the infliction of an undue
punishment. Sometimes, indeed, he found
(and still finds) confronted by the alterna-
tives of perjury or murder. Here is where
average human nature has'proved, and will
prove, itself stronger than any argument yet
brought to bear upon it on behalf of Law.
If a culprit can only be punished through a
jury pronouncing that he must be punished,
the average juror will feel that he has a right
to at"least take part in dictating the measure
of the punishment. When once his sense of
the fair proportion between an offence and
its punishment has been legally violated this
feeling will amount to a demand,.and if the
demand be too long resisted, will result in a
system in which jurors will sit obstinately in
their room applauded by their consciences
and set the judicial machinery at defiance.
* * *
Martin’s jurors are only bolder than a
thousand others, but a couple of hundred
like them are all that are wanted to bring
the present system of trial by jury to abso-
lute end in every Australian capital. The
jurors sit in their room, the judge sits on his
bench, the prisoner- stands- hr the dock—
with a couple of men like Martin’s jurors
on each jury, where is law to come in ?
The approach of this legal cataclysm has, it
must be confessed, not been unobserved.
Sir Alfred Stephen has for years past been
urging that juries should be disbanded once
for all, and that accused persons should
be handed over just as they are
to the remorseless judicial clutch. He
has not succeeded in impressing great
numbers with his idea, but, looking
to the future, we see nothing for it
except compliance with Sir Alfred’s re-
quirements or to confer upon jurors those
powers the denial of which makes so many
of them intractable. Those jurors who dis-
pute the punishments which follow their
verdicts are but the intelligent successors of
the jurors of eighty and a hundred years
ago who systematically and stolidly declared
proved culprits not guilty. Jurors then
perceived the conflict between punishment
as it was and as it should be, and although
told, then as now, that the verdict alone,
and not the consequent punishment, was
their concern, they marched bodily to the
box and perjured themselves in the interests
of God and of humanity.
* * *
We call the remonstrant jurors of the
present intelligent successors of these old
fighters. The battle is the same. The in-
dividual, the communal living sense of jus-
tice, then fought with the stereotyped,
governing-class methods and measures of
punishment. Though the present is demo-
cratic to a degree, its statutes are the
children of undemocratic times, and methods
and measures of punishment are as
repugnant to the living sense now as
when the only weapon that could be lifted
against them was perjury. To-day the chief
hut not only weapon is public remonstrance,
public dissent, public refusal to record merely
a yea or a nay. The old terrors that sur-
rounded the judicial bench have been dissi-
pated. The majesty of authority is now a
vacant phrase or is taken to reside wherever
truth and justice are dominant. It is to be
looked for illuminating the stubble beard of
a grocer in the jury-box with just as much
certainty of finding it as under the fantastic
headdress of Justice or Chief Justice. Nor
has the growth of this intelligence been
limited to jury circles alone. It has touched
the people on all sides, and wherever
authority stands not on justice, it totters at its
name. A century ago the British soldier
stood cowed before his commandant. The
hound would sooner turn on the master who
swished his whip about its ears than the
soldier on the man in command. To-day
regiments of his kind lay down terms, and
it their terms be just the whole British
people will support their demand for fair
play. Who was more humble than Police-
man X ? His heavy tread and solemn visage
marked him out for a man whom superior
officers might count for ever as their own.
But he too lias lifted his fist to authority,
and if he proves he has justice on his side
the public will help him to knock the ages-
old sham out of position. Authority, as
authority, is doomed. The King is dead —and
will shortly be buried. The soldier no longer
cowers, the constable no longer hows down,
the juror no longer perjures himself. Fur
each public opinion is an open court, and he
only will he invested with highest authority
who substantiates his claim to it in presence
of that court.
On Defences in General.
Thk “ Official Secrets Bill,” now under discussion
in the Victorian Legislature, is one of the most
comprehensive under the sun, but its immediate
object is evidently to make it a punishable offence
for anybody to divulge the fact that the Govern-
ment has made an ass of itself —or something
worse. When the Government makes an ass of
itself in future the fact is to be regarded as an
official secret, and when it makes a stupendous ass
of itself, the circumstance is to be held as a very
important secret, not to be divulged under penalty
of a fine of £5OO or imprisonment for one year.
When the country pays an enormous sum for a
gun that explodes back a ards and habitually kills
everybody standing behind it, the person found
publishing the fact will be pursued with the utmost
rigour of the law; and an ironclad which serenely
turns itself upside down, or an imported general
who doesn’t know enough to come in out of-the
rain, or a new admiral who inspects his flagship
and is surprised to find that the darned thing is
hollow inside, or a fresh strategist who turns half
a dozen torpedoes loose in the hai hour and can’t
find them again till they have blown a big
passenger steamer to the stars, are matters
which are not to be mentioned By the-com-
mon herd. Comments on things of this sort
tend to demoralise the dignity of that profound
and abysmal institution called the Department,
and, moreover, they are supposed to afford valu-
able indications to that nameless but devastating
enemy who never comes. And, anyhow, they are
a vexation and a nuisance to the grocery col nel
who stands in a pompous attitude at the cannon’s
mouth, and an insult to the politician whose in-
capable uncle or other near relative is entrusted
with the duty of keeping the cartridges in a
damp spot so as to make tolerably sure that they
won’t go off, and whose business it is to plant the
rusted, artillery where it can’t pos-
sibly'shoot anything, and to store the expensive
torpedo out in the rain, and to deposit the dyna-
mite and nitro-glyccrinc where any inquiring
small boy can get at it and blow himself up. The
Department, has got tired of having these,things
alluded to, and in future the politician’s warlike
uncle is to )»• an official secret of the strictest
kind, and any irreverent mention of him in his
official capacity will be a costly and dangerous
experiment.
** y *
Under the new regime any person publishing
any sketch, plan, model, or other information re-
lating to matters of military or naval defence, is
to be promptly crushed by the law, and consider-
ing the comprehensive nature of that “other
information ” the new measure appears to be about
as exhaustive as any Bill constructed by merely
human agency could reasonably be. ’Further, any
officer-of any public department who supplies any
information on the above subjects, as well as any
person who incites him to do so, is to be visited by
the ponderous displeasure of the criminal code in
the shape of a heavy fine or long imprisonment.
Hitherto, when some warlike authority has com-
menced to erect a fortification upside-down, or an
attempt has been made to appoint a dead man to
an important command, the Press has generally
mentioned the fact; and when a small apprentice
C/esar started an army oft to make a needless
exhibition or itself in the attempt to rescue a
deceased adventurer out of a city in the far-off
deserts of Africa, it has been lawful to state that
the expedition didn’t kill anybody, and only
brought back a donkey and a plain, back-yard
goat; and, thanks to the influence thus exerted,
the Defence Departments of Australia have now
and then, at the instigation of such men as Surgeon
Ckeeo. shown some gleams of borrowed intelli-
gence, and not more than three-fourths of the
outlay for military and naval purposes has been
absolutely thrown away. But this species of con-
trol has always been irksome to that lofty race
which stands about in uniform and falls over its own
sword ; and the question now at issue is whether
the military authorities are or are not to be abso-
lutely irresponsible, and whether their blunders
are to he found out by the people who pay for
them while there is yet time to undo the effects of
official stupidity, or whether they are to be dis-
covered for the first time when some active and
intelligent invader walks over the ruins of Aus-
tralia’s costly defences. Most Governments prefer
the latter plan, because the invader is probably a
long way off, and, should he never come at all,
then the revelation is postponed sine die.
• * *
This kind of military exclusiveness has always
been dear to the soul of the superannuated major-
general and the rest of that profession which
habitually looks down with such lofty scorn on
the non-homicidal taxpayer. The French were
addicted to it in the days of the Second Empire,
with the natural result that all Europe, excepting
themselves, knew the utter rottenness of their de-
fences, and realised the hollowness of everything,
from the imbecile commissariat right up to the
corpulent Bazaine, and that paint-and-buckram
warrior, Changarnier, who wept because he
couldn’t get his aged countenance enamelled in
Metz. Austria habitually smothered all non-
official criticism, with the consequence that every-
body, except the Austrian Government itself,
knew that the wretched muzzle-loader would go
down before the needle-gun whenever the two
came in contact. The only result of what is
pompously described as “ official secresy ” is that
any enemy who is willing to pay for the informa-
tion can learn all the weak points of a nation’s de-
fences, while the nation itself remains in profound
ignorance, and trusts to its rotting walls, and its
bottomless ironclads, and its guns that won’t go
off when they ought to, and its bedridden com-
manders who will go off—in a wheelbarrow or an
ambulance— when they ought not to, until it is too
late to make any resistance. If any foreign
Government seriously desires to find out anything
concerning the defences of Sydney or Melbourne
beyond what can be ascertained,with the naked eye,
it will make it worth somebody’s while to supply the
information and risk the fine or imprisonment
which may follow, and as no private citizen is
likely to go to such -expense, the indefinite
“enemy ” gets all the advantage. If the Official
Secrets Bill is meant for any purpose except to
smother troublesome criticism, then arrangements
should be made for publicly boiling the impecunious
Civil Service dude who gives his country away.
Nothing else seems likely to have any effect.
* * *
In any case the whole of this pompous official
riot is a great deal too large for the occasion. The
“defences” of Australia are not worth all the
worry and indignation expended on them. When
the humorous captain of some foreign warship
wishes to test the military arrangements at any
of our great seaports, he simply comes along in the
night and nobody sees him as he goes by, and at
daybreak he is found lying placidly at anchor
ready to bombard everything and everybody if he
wants to. This circumstance has happened at
Wellington, Brisbane and other capitals—in fact,
wherever and whenever the experiment has been
tried it has proved a conspicuous success. If the
defence arrangements are under the influence of
chloroform and are never ready to shoot anybody
till he is gone, it is hardly worth making an
official secret of them; if the “enemy” doesn’t
know all about them before he comes he will
acquire all the gratifying intelligence he wants so
soon after his arrival that it is much the same.
If the “enemy,” when he comes, proves to be a
person of any size and reasonably supplied with
understanding, no sane individual can be-
lieve that the best fortified city in these
colonies will hold out for 24 hours. In all
probability 21 minutes will be the outside
limit. There will be a frantic ru-h and
racket among the excited troops, all falling over
each other in their mad desire to get to the front
and do something—the Lord only knows what—
even if they have to tread on their own fathers to
to it. There will be a tempest of insane distraction
among the superannuated generals, many of whom
never saw a live enemy before ; and as they clamour
wildly to the soldiers to keep the goose-step, and
implore them to shoulder arms, and beseech them
to hitch their belts straight, and weep with mili-
tary indignation because one comple e private
hasn’t shaved himself before he came out, they
will be swept away in the rush and their authority
lost for ever. There will be helpless incapacity
about the aide-de-camp who has come out without
his eye-glass, and who is probably suffering from
cold through looking at a damp programme at the
theatre the previous night; and blind delirium
among the softgoods colonels who never struck any-
thing more hostile than a balance-sheet in a book,
and who will promptly forget all themilitary science
they ever knew, and call on their followers to
come on and see the cheap pants at Bs. Gd. There
will be a chaos of private citizens, larrikins, book-
makers, publicans, retired prize-fighters, clerks,
undertakers, footballers, cricketers, and all other
sorts and conditions of men tearing along in cabs
and carts and drays, and on bicycl ~ triples
and old hearse horses “to see the fun and there,
will be men convulsively trying to fire dear
but sawdustry powder out of costly but rusty
guns, and before the menagerie begins to
assume the first semblance of order, the attack -
ing fleet will have steamed past the fortifications,
and the opportunity will be lost,
* » #
What is the remedy ? Well, there is no remedy
anywhere on earth. All over the world nation's
have spent hundreds of millions in fortifying
easily defensible straits and channels, and have
hired thousands upon thousands of soldiers to
defend them, and after centimes of vigilance an
enemy lias come along some dark night and dodged
past unobserved. When Vicksburg, Gibraltar and
the Dardanelles failed to stop pretty nearly every-
body who seriously wanted to get past, the chances
don’t amount to much. If that problematical “in
vader ” has any fixed intention of conquering this
country the fortifications of Melbourne, Sydney,
and Brisbane are not likely to do him any more
damage than a brick at a raile-and-a-half range,
There will be somewhere about a quarter of an
hour to do the damage in, and it will take at least
an hour and a half for the superannuated patient in
charge to collect his senses and form himself into
a hollow square. If this country is ever invaded
111 force the first campaign will almost certainly be
spent in losing the coast cities, in abandoning the
alleged defences, in scattering the featherbed
generals who have been imported chiefly because
the mother country could very well spare them,
an( | ,n doing a general retreat in the course of
which the guns will be left behind and most of the
munitions of war thrown away. When all these
things have been successfully accomplished the de-
fence of Australia will begin in earnest, and of its
ultimate success there is no possible doubt. There
i® no civilised nation on earth which is large
enough to conquer this continent, and there is
hardly one which is small enough to be unable to
knock out ten times the entire “fortifications”
°f fhe country in one round. For our own part
we have no expectation of that shadowy enemy
ever turning up, but if he has any desire to come
th o Official Secrets Bill will make no difference in
hi® coming, and the only possible use of that
piece of absurdity is to enable the halt, the
maimed, and the imbecile to disport themselves in
uniform at the public expenses, and to fine any-
body who comments on their uselessness and their
three or four hundred other conspicuous failings.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Discontent.
The old type of the British workman—the man
who loved the squire and his relations and always
, , .. 1 . x , . , ,
voted as his employer told him to, and whose
daughter went to a charity school that she might
be whaled into due obsequiousness, and whose
son ’ s fi ra t, duty was to grovel to the parish vicar—
, , f ~ , , ,
b , e far on the road to extinction. Every day
the Labour movement assumes larger and larger
proportions, and in each successful struggle with
Capital the forces of the workers show signs of
s t ea (JiJy-i m p rov ing organisation. The actual gains,
. J " . ■ 1 .
80 ar » ma y amount to much, but the history
of the dockers’ strike in London, the collapse of
the wealthy corporation of Leeds in its conflict
w Rh the gas-stokers, the partial insurrection of
London policemen, and the species of upheaval
. 1 , ■ L 1
which has taken place among the postmen and
telegraph-operators of the metropolis show that
the new doctrine of Discontent is taking firm root
J n the country. The Blessedness of Contentment is
an () j d) exhausted subject; and its preachers, from
eminent capitalist who sat on the ivory throne
j eruga i em downwards, have invariably been
men G f wealth and rich clothes and substantial
dinners, who bore up manfully against the fact
dia ( ; the outside world was hungrv and
despondent. Contentment is a dull, apoplectic
thing at the best—it is the virtue of the gorged
snake and the bulgy frog sleeping in a swamp;
an( j a con tcnted nation is only a Dead Sea of
humanity with no aspirations or hope of progress.
The seething dissatisfaction of Europe, whether
d x a hes the form of strikes or dynamite— whether
q reveals itself in trades unionism or in shooting
t [ )e j an dlord from behind a hedge, in riots.
anarchy, communism, or any other form—is at
least a proof that the people of the Old World are
advancing towards better things; and if these
manifestations of discontent should die out before
the emancipation of labour is finally accom-
plished and avoidable poverty is extinguished, it
will be an infallible sign of national decay and
degeneration. No doubt discontent is an expen-
sive thing, but unfortunately experience has
proved that contentment is fifty times more
ruinous. The landlord wdio is murdered because
the oppressed and ignorant peasant has not been
educated up to any higher mode of expressing
his dissatisfaction, may be a passing loss ; but the
country can grow a new landlord if it wants one,
and even a thousand dead landlords are a smaller
and cheaper calamity than that state of animal
stupefaction which is commonly described as peace
and general tranquillity. A Czar who has been
shot and shattered by a bomb thrown in an almost
hopeless cause may not be an attractive spectacle;
but Czars are plentiful, and bombs are compara*
tively cheap, and it is better that a monarch
should be killed by an oppressed people than that
a nation of slaves should lack the courage to kill a
monarch at a!J. Even the Tae-ping rebel, who
went out with his bow and arrows and his anti-
quated musket to protest against a lifeless tyranny
which had lasted -for forty centuries, was a nobler
being, according to uis lights, than that Christian
soldier, the lamented Gordon, who crushed out the
last flickering spark of the Tae-ping insurrection,
and restored the regime of the Peacock’s
Feather. Discontent, though hidden in many
au unattractive disguise, is a holy tiling. It is
the living principle of progress—the one and only
security of civilisation against barbarism. It was
the men who were discontented with the placid,
fatuous ignorance of their contemporaries who
made every discovery that was ever made for the
benefit of humanity, from the day when the erst
prophet preached the doctrine of Christianity and
taught the world to look for a heaven because it
was discontented with earth and hell, down to the
era when trades-unionism arose because man was


dissatisfied with constant hunger and constan
hopeless toil. The apostle and the Nihilist are
moved by the same motive. The Fenian who
shoots the landlord, the Communist, the Anarchist,
and the ancient prophets of Israel are all members
of one great family. Discontent is the main-
snrinsr of life, and in the fact that Europe is
smouldering with the elements of revolt we.see the
only sure promise that its future may be brighter
than its past,
The Discontented Policeman.
It is amusing to read that the police-strike in
London was not supported by the members of the
city force. These are the “splendid body of men
who regulate the traffic in wealthy neighbourhoods
and make good pickings. The younger and per-
haps weaker individuals are told on to tackle the
dangerous classes, clear the publ.c houses at 12..>0,
and look out for Jack the Ripper. The city police
are as magnificent in style as would be a regiment
of butlers. The finer and larger tin 1 policeman the
more likely he is to be stuck outside the Mansion
House, where he enjoys a good time in touching
his helmet to aldermen and directing rich old
ladies to the Bank of England. The working
police are the dissatisfied ones, evidently. 1 hey
run an everlasting risk of being maimed, or mur-
dered, by their natural enemies, the “roughs."'
They get the kicks while the fine fat
men pick up the ha’pence. How these real
protectors of the peace must arid do stick together
—not slinking away from a row, but rushing head-
long to the assistance of the pal who is being
jumped upon—is known only to those who have
studied night-life in the neighbourhood of the
New Cut, the Elephant and Castle, and such warm
haunts of the “wrong ’nns.” There is nothing
demoralising about the life of a policeman whose
lines are case in black places. He learns to respect
struggling misery, and to sympathise with it, as
far as a philosopher may. He sees little of
decently-dressed vice which isn’t associated with
possible danger to himself, and so becomes a
moralist from force of circumstances. On the
few well-to-do “respectable” people who come
his way he casts a severe eye, mentally rebuking
them for their indifference to the suffering that is
all around and about them. That class of con-
stable doesn’t strike without good, solid, self-
convincing reasons.
The Shriek of a Dean.
Dean Macartney, of Melbourne, has risen unani-
mously as one overpaid ecclesiastic to enter his
protest against the immorality of a degenerate
age, and the hum of his wailing and lamentation
fills three-quarters of a column of small print in
the pious Telegraph. His sorrow covers a multi-
tude of subjects, but the last straw on the back of
the reverend camel is Mr. Shiels’ Bill for the
legitimisation of children born out of wedlock.
Regarding this unclean thing he lifts up his voice
thus :
The Act which assures her that a life of sin and shame
may be crowned by finding herself the honoured mother
of a lawful offspring may be termed an “ Act for the en-
couragement of Seduction.” . . . The Scriptural ac-
uountof the object of Government is travestied by these
efforts, which may be described as “for the encourage-
ment of evil-doers and for the shame of those that do
well.”
It might be casually pointed out just here that
an unconsidered and forgotten Messiah, who never
drew a large salary, or became a dean in Galilee,
onoe soared away a crowd of respectable clergy-
men and citizens who came along with much the
same argument on the very same subject: but that
may be allowed to pass. If the same Messiah
came back to earth now, the average dean would
send for a policeman and want him arrested for
blasphemy and insulting language, and except
that the Salvation Army might possibly invite
him to breakfast, the church would take no official
notice of him. But the point at issue is really
this : under the present system the kind of
woman that the reverend Macartney is so
mad about often does become the “honoured
mother of a lawful offspring,” _ and the only
question is—which offspring is it to be?
At present the unauthorised, offspring is
generally left dead on a doorstep, or dropped
into the harbour, or suffocated and then tied up
in a parcel and sent to a respectable clergyman by
goods-train, and as the old, brutal law makes the
case of that offspring a very unpromising one
from the start it is perhaps the best thing that
could happen to it. Then the owner of the super-
fluous infant, if she possesses sufficient brains and
energy, probably makes a fresh start, and becomes
that “ honoured mother” who has so grievously
aroused the holy man’s anger, for obviously the
thing above all others which makes the Dean tear
around in such an alarming fashion is that a
woman who has once been led astray - possibly by
some oily light of the Church —and found out—
should ever have a chance of becoming an honoured
mother at all. After the manner of the customary
preacher of repentance he is irate at the
mere suggestion that one particular brand of
sinner should not be kicked and cursed through
all the remainder of her existence, and should get
any chance of redeeming herself except by the
time-honoured system of throwing her infantine
incubus into the nearest creek and saying nothing
about it. And above all things lie adheres to the
grand, old, moss-grown dogma that the best way
to suppress the “ unmarried mother ” of the pre-
sent generation is to make her descendants of the
next generation suffer for her—which is a fine idea
of the Chinese order and worthy of indefinite
extension. For on the same principle the surest
way to prevent us assassinating the spring poet
who comes in with a pound and a-half of drivel is
to arrange things so that if we do,assassinate that
persistent nuisance the Dean himself shall be
hanged for it; if the principle of vicarious sacrifice
holds good whore the Dean does not lose by it,
we don’t see why it should not also hold good
where the venerable apostle is the victim. And
the country which refuses to shed a common Dean
in defence of a great and solemn truth is un-
worthy of its position in the front rank, of civili-
sation.
- -♦
The Reaper an I the Wild Flowers,
The baby-killing industry in Great Britain has
recently attracted a very considerable amount of
attention. A Reverend Mr. Waugh has not only
“ gone into figures ” relating to this subject, but
has instituted special investigations of his own,
visiting various farms where the Reaper, whose
name is Death, has seemingly discarded the sickle
as too slow and old-fashioned and got a mowing-
machine in full swing. Mr. Waugh has ascer-
tained that there is money in the baby-killing
business. The charges vary from £5 for a servant-
girl’s little mistake to £2OO for a young lady's
trifling error. It is among the babies who are
born with defective parental arrangements that
the harvest is fullest. Babies which have a mother
but no father—except a heavenly Father—go down
in swathes at the rate of 37 in every 1000 who
are born. This is just 20 per thousand more
than die of infants who have an earthly father.
Those 20 appear to have reason to complain of
their Father which is in Heaven —for child-deser-
tion. The prominence achieved by tins flourishing
industry in the “mother” country (the name
sounds like satire in this connection) cannot
be compared with that of the “infant’ com-
munity of New South Wales, where the result is
highly encouraging. There are 54,000 illegitimate
children born annually in Great Britain, the popu-
lation being about 35 millions. In New South
Wales, a population of about one million managed
to produce in 1889, 19(56 illegitimate infants. Tins
puts the Mother Colony of the Australias right
ahead of the effete Cld Country, which, to get
level with New South Wales, would require to
turn out not 54,000 natural children, but about
69,000. When the death-rate is looked into,
comparisons equally exact are unfortunately not
available, otherwise there is little doubt N.S. W.
would come out top again. No separate record is
given in the vital statistics of the respective deat h-
rates of legitimate and illegitimate children ; st ill,
as it is in Sydney and suburbs that the baby-
killing factories are mainly concentrated, some
useful suggestiveness is embodied in a table in
Ooghlan’s “Wealth and Progress of Now South
Wales,” which states the comparative rate of mor-
tality among children under one year of ago in the
city and suburbs of Sydney and in the country
districts respectively. Prom this it appears that
in the country districts 92 die out of every 1000
born, legitimate and otherwise, whereas in Sydney
and suburbs nearly 165 die out of every 1000 born.
The last figures beat every other place in the list,
except Melbourne and suburbs, which dispose of
170 per 1000. London only manages 150 per 1000,
and France the same. It seems a pity that the
distinction between the two classes of children is
not , kept in the New South Wales statistics.
Since New South Wales averages are ahead of the
total of both classes in London, it may reasonably
hope to beat that city’s 360 per 1000 of deaths
among illegitimates. One thing occurs to us in
this connection ; that is, that it seems very odd
that natural children should so often have un-
natural parents.
Why must all intelligence from America to Aus-
tralia, and vice versa, be filtered through the cable
via London ? Look at all we would like to hear
from the States, and for which hidebound England
doesn’t care a dump. Nor is it conceited to
imagine that America would relish news direct
from Australia, in a manly way. Here lie our
sympathies, here lies our love. Australia is not
English—why, the most English part is Melbourne,
and whatever sort qf Englishism do you call that!
Where every Anglican influence is focussed, and
yet what can Lord Bcnthundkb make of it ? He
is turning democrat, and more democratic every
day. One year in Melbourne will make more of a
man of him than thirty of the upholstered country
from which he came.
-
The new Melbourne Law Courts, only open a few
years, are unsafe—the plaster threatens to conic
down, and the ceilings are expected to bump a
goodly batch of somebodies on the head shortly.
A great fault in the courts is that redundant pas-
sages reduce the accommodation ; but this was
Chief Justice Stawell’s work, his idea—a fine old
Conservative one—being that to have large courts
encouraged loafers. Which, being interpreted by
The Bulletin, meant that it was unpleasant and
even dangerous to have the law administered in
the presence of the people. Stawell was quite
right. Just think of what might happen in the
criminal court where a jury, in the presence of a
thousand citizens taken at random, had been
jockeyed into a verdict by a judge who used pro-
longed night-sittings as an instrument for the
prosecution! Why the audience might hoot the
judge ! As things stand at present (the audience
being outnumbered by the police) nobody dares
hoot him in court, and the daily newspapers,
whose wives keep on the most excellent of social
terms with Mr. and Mrs. Judge, take care that no
low people are permitted to make in their columns
noises objectionable to his Honor.
The Bulletin, while altogether differing from
Mr. L. F. Heydon on the divorce question,
quite sympathises with his protest against the
methods by which a majority was secured for Sir
Alfred Stephen’s Bill in the New South Wales
Legislative Council. - Sir Alfred is Lieutenant-
Governor and ex-Chief Justice of New South
Wales, apd, by his vigorous and enthusiastic per-
sonal canvass, exercised on behalf of the measure
a peculiar influence, the political propriety of which
is most debateable. Sir Alfred, who induced the
N.S.W. Legislature to pass the most barbarous
set of criminal laws obtaining in any English-
speaking community, is allowed a wide license.
For instance, take the prominent part assumed
by him in the promotion of a testimonial to
Stanley, chief Crown witness in the Mount
Rennie case. Serious imputations in this
latter matter were at the time publicly made
against Lieutenant-Governor Stephen in an even-
ing paper, and we have noticed that up to now no
explanation has been made. If these imputations
were founded on even a scintilla of truth, the ex-
Solicitor-General of Yandemonia should not for a
single instant have been permitted to retain his
present high office.
Whites Gladstone in Lloyds Newspaper of
May 11 :
The public opinion of the day, the hour, the moment,
embraces all subjects as they come and go. This public
opinion is manufactured by the wealthy, and governs that
vast range of our public action which is not weighty
enough, or not salient enough, to force the attention of
the masses at large whose daily bread is their chief daily
solicitude. Once roused, the nation is omnipotent; but it
is only, perhaps it can only be, roused upon rare occa-
sions. So that notwithstanding his wide, franchise, and
though lie were to widen it as he pleased, he (the
workman) hears only a divided rule ; and perhaps his
share is the smaller one. It would be a great error
were he to overrate his strength- through omitting
to notice the causes which detract from it. Still,
the spectacle presented by this country .at the pre-
sent time is a remarkable one. The'ultimate power re-
sides in the hands of those who constitute our democracy.
And yet our institutions are not democratic. Their basis
is popular; hut upon that basis is built a hierarchy of
classes and of establishments savouring in part of-feudal
limes and principles; and this, not in despite of the
democratic majority, but on the whole with their assent.
I do not know whether history, or whether the present
face of the world presents a similar case of the old resting
on the new, of non-popnlar institutions sustained by
popular free-will.
In Australia, where so many outworn laws obtain
in defiance of the will of the majority, the fore-
going is worth pondering.
Dear Bulletin,— One of the things which Aus-
tralia wants badly is a Government analyst,
whose business it will be to dissect every patent
medicine before it is allowed to be offered I r sale
in these colonies, and who shall bo required, if
the nostrum is as vile and useless as such com-
pounds often are, to prohibit its introduction and
to prosecute the owner if he attempts to trade
off his invention on a credulous public. The
human inside was never meant to be cither an
ash-barrel or a slop-bucket, and the men who
habitually make use of it for both these purposes
in order that they may live without honest labour,
should be treated as the open and avowed enemies
of their species. Among the great crowd of specu-
lators who grow rich by ploughing and hanowing
the wide field of human imbecility, few are more
prosperous or more offensive than the individual
who pounds up a mixture of inferior sawdust and
condemned gum, and then disguises the product
in a pill-box to steal away men's brains; and
his brethren, the man with the euro for ner-
vous debility, and the fiend with the hair-wash
which devastates the head of the user, and the
assassin who sells the squashed-up spider as an
infallible remedy for corns, and the degraded liar
with the elixir for the removal of flatulence and
glanders and old age, and the other descendants
of the left-hand thief, are all equally objec-
tionable. A few are provided with a degree
which was bought with a pound from one of these
one-horse American universities, which would
cheerfully transpose a bone-and-bottle gatherer
into a doctor of medicine or divinity, provided he
paid the necessary fees for his elevation. A good
many profess to have purchased the secret of their
bottled horrors from some mysterious and pro-
found Arab in a wilderness somewhere in the
vicinity of Bagdad, but this assertion is merely a
futile disguise for the fact that a Hebrew in the
old-elo’ business kindly lent the kettle in which
the mixture was boiled up when the great enter-
prise was still in its infancy. And the majority
are provided with a magnificent collection of testi-
monials, which circumstance is chiefly owing to the
fact that sawdust and pounded bricks are not,
as a rule, immediately fatal, so that the
patient has generally time to write and tell how he
was cured before he dies. Moreover, almost every
remedy, except nitro-glycerine and gunshot in the
brain, leaves the sufferer some intervals of tem-
porary relief ; and if he is promptly dropped upon
at one of these favourable junctures the probabili-
ties are that he will sign anything; and, in addi-
tion, there is always a large business to be done
by persuading the sturdy hypochondriac, and the
fat woman who drags a “ clorg ” along at the end
of a string, that they are seriously diseased, and
then it is only necessary to inflate them with dish-
water and persuade them that they are well again
and the money and the testimonial both follow as
a matter of course. Of human credulity there is
no end. The sick Mohammedan generally treats
himself by writing an appropriate verse from the
Koran on a board with a piece of charcoal, after
which he washes off the inscription and drinks the
water, and this process of driving the consoling
words of the Prophet into the vitals has been found
sufficient by thousands of respectable witnesses to
heal anything short of cholera ; and it is doubtful
if all the patent medicines of Christendom
combined have performed half as many cures as
the African remedy of banging a drum in the ears
of the patient to scare, away the devil which is
supposed to be demolishing his internal parts.
But, unhappily, nine men out of every ten are
more or less fools, and the tenth man is more
than suspected of being a fool also; and, there-
fore, it is high time that the Government under-
took to supervise the stale beer which is traded
off at 2s. 6d.' a bottle and described as the Elixir
of Bagdad, and the noxious compounds of glue
and ashes which are alleged to raise, the dead:
and spoiled a trade which has been for many years
a standing insult to human intelligence—if there
is any human intelligence at all.-- A Bush Saint.
The spot at Portland where Henty, or his
men, drove the first plough, is to be fenced in and
a monument put up—first furrow turned in Aus-
tralia. The old plough is kept., The, late Hugh
Lennon, implement maker, enthusiastic. in all.
relating to Australian agriculture, secured it—just
a piece of old wood and rusty iron.
Justice is blind. Also it is crippled and
imbecile and dead, and in an advanced state of
putrefaction as well. At Carlton (Vic.) lately a
man who robbed two shopkeepers and ferociously
assaulted and kicked a small boy in the street got
ten weeks’ imprisonment. Then a tottering old
patriarch who had gone off with a jug worth one
shilling was brought along, and sentenced to three
months. Of such is the kingdom of Heaven.
The New Religion.
On the recent occasion of a Salvation Harmy
demonstration at the Crystal Palaee the statuary
was to be covered up by special arrangement
between General Booth and the Palace authori-
ties :
The sculptor sat in blank despair,
Too broken-up to stand,
And silently he tore his hair
With neiwous, brawny hand ;
His bitter tears he tried to gulp,
Reflection’s end he chewed—
“ Alas ! ” he cried, “ I dare not sculp
A study from the nude.
“ O give us back the honest time
When men had souls for Art,
And didn’t deem a nymph sublime
No better than a ‘ tart; ’
The ancients saw in woman’s form
No cause for giggles lewd,
Nor slyly whispered, 4 Ain’t it warm,
This study from the nude ? ’
“For then no Harray, singing hymns,
Were shocked at marble breast,
Or called a pair of plaster limbs
Indecent, if undress’d ;
No morbid saints in coloured specs.,
With dirty minds endued,
Saw aught of shame to either sex
In studies from the nude.
“ The difference ’twixt now and then.
How wonderfully strange!
Yet only in the ways of men,
For Nature doesn’t change;
The leg that is has ever been,
And Greeks or Romans ‘ rude ’
Could gaze without a, thought obscene
On studies from the nude.
“ But Art no lucre is pure and free
From taint of moral guilt ;
Henceforth I must, ah, woe is me!
Put Ajax in a kilt—
Great Hercules shall trousers wear,
Just like a modern dude,
And Venus I will never dare
To represent as nude.
‘ ‘ O give us back the good old time
When Pagans ruled, forsooth,
Who held it not a carnal crime
To deal in naked truth,
When Virtue healthy was and strong,
Not yet a sickly prude,
And righteous folks found nothing wrong
In studies from the nude.”
Melbourne.
EDMUND FISHER.
“The Hypnotist."
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
A man once read with a mind surprised
Of the way that people were “ hypnotised ;"
By waving of hands you produced, forsooth,
A kind of trance where men told the truth !
His mind was filled with a wond’ring doubt;
He grabbed his hat and he started out,.
He walked the street and he made a “set ”
At the first half-dozen folk he met.
Ho “ tranced ” them all, and without a joke
’Twas much as follows the subjects spoke :
First. Man—
I am a doctor, London-made,
Listen to me and you 11 hear displayed
A few of the tricks of the doctor’s trade.
! Twill sometimes chance when-a patient’s ill
That a dose, or draught, or a lightning-pill,
A little too strong or a little too hot,
Will work its way to a vital spot.
And then I watch with a sickly grin
While the'patient “ passes his counters in.”
But when he has done with his fleeting breath
I certify that the cause of death
Was something Latin, and something long,
And who is to say that the doctor’s wrong !
So I go nay way with a stately tread
While my patients sleep with the dreamless dead.
Next, Please.
I am a barrister, wigged and gowned.
Of stately presence and look profound.
Listen awhile till I show you round.
When Courts are sitting and work is flush
I hurry about in a frantic rush.
I take your brief and I look to see
That the same is marked with a thumping fee ;
But just as your case is drawing near
I bob serenely and disappear,
And away in another court I lurk
While a junior barrister does your work ;
And I ask my fee with a courtly grace,
Although I never came near the case.
The loss means ruin to you, maybe,
But nevertheless I must have'my fee !
For the lawyer laughs'in his cruel sport
While his clients inarch to the Bankrupt Court.
Third Man :
I am a banker, wealthy and bold —
A solid man, and I keep my' hold
Over a pile of the public’s gold.
I am as skilled as skilled can be
in every matter of £ s. d.
I count the money, and night by night
I balance it up to a farthing right ;
In sooth, ’twould a stranger’s soul perplex
My double entry and double checks.
Yet it sometimes happens by some strange crook
That a ledger-keeper will “ take his hook ”
With a couple of hundred thousand “ quid,”
And no one can tell how the thing .was did !
Fourth Man ;
I am an editor, bold and free.
Behind the great impersonal “We”
I hold the power of the Mystic Three.
What scoundrel ever would dare to hint
That anything crooked appears in print I
Perhaps an actor is all the rage,
He struts his hour on the mimic stage,
With skill he interprets all the scenes—
And yet next morning I give him beans.
I slate his show from the floats to flies,
Because the beggar won’t advertise.
And sometimes columns of print appear
About a mine, and it makes it clear
That the same is all that one’s heart could wish—
A dozen ounces to every dish.
But the reason we print those statements fine
Is—the editor’s uncle owns the mine.
The Last Straw ;
A preacher I, and I take my stand ,
In pulpit decked with a gown and band
To point the way to a better land.
With sanctimonious and reverent look
I-read it out of the sacred book
That ho who would open the golden door
Must give his all to the starving poor.
But I vary the practice to some extent
By investing money at twelve per cent..
And after I’ve preached for a decent while
I clear for “ home ” with a lordly pile.
I frighten my congregation well
With fear of torment and threats of hell,
Although I know that the scientists
Can’t find that* any such place exists.
And when they prove it beyond mistake
That the world took millions of years to make,
And never was built by the seventh day
I say in a pained and insulted way
That “ Thomas also presumed to doubt,”
And thus do I rub my opponents out.
For folks may widen their mental range,
But priest and parson they never change.
3 * • • • •
With dragging footsteps and downcast head
The hypnotiser went home to bed.
And since that very successful test
He has given the magic art a rest;
Had he tried the ladies, and worked it right,
What curious tales might have come.to light!
BANJO.
Trades-unionist Spence writes to explain
that he never asserted that an increase of wages
did not mean increased cost of production, but
that, as we showed in commenting on his alleged
statement, a rise in wages did not necessarily
bring about an equal increase of cost, because*
increased comfort means improved health, en-
larged intelligence, and therefore better workmen.
When students of political economy, who art*
journalists first, stenographers afterwards, are
employed on daily papers, then we may hope to
get condensed reports of what speakers say which
do not utterly travesty their meaning. If the
Australian Reporters’ Institute raises the* stan-
dard of reporting by increasing the physical stan-
dard of living, it will do good work.
Sir John Downer, of the South Australian
Parliament, stacked himself up in a vertical atti-
tude last Tuesday week, and with rage shining in
his eye demanded that the Chief Secretary should
send a thrilling paragraph to Parkes or somebody
asking whether Egeson's weather prophecies are
published by authority of the N.S.W, (govern-
ment, and whether it is desirable “ in the interests
of Australia ” to retain him in the service. Possibly
Sir John is under the impression that Egeson
brings down rain, fld is an active cause, of
droughts, and earthquakes, and large bluevflies.
and other visitations, but if so we are inclined to
think he is wrong So far as wo know that gentle-
man does not actively shove along these pheno-
mena —he only mentions that they are coming.
And unless Sir John is prepared to .slit>Mr. Egeson
up lengthways, and pick the germs of prophecy
out of him, and smash them with a club on a
board, what good ran he do. anyhow ?
0-


Land at Perth, W. A., the best Investment
Plans from Intercolonial Investment Co., Ltd.
9(5 Bathnrst.stroct, Sydney.
Huy Wolfe's .Schnapps by the bottle.
[?]
-846 Macquarie-street North, Sydney, July 16,1890.
Mv Dear Moorabinda,—
Sydney Royal was en/Ste on the occasion of the “Paul
Jones ” sampling, on 12th inst. All the seats had been
taken weeks ahead, and the back of the d.c. was crowded
with war-painted men content to stand in the outer dark-
ness. The Mayoress wore cream silk and lace and
diamonds; Miss Burdekin, black; Miss Thorne, black
velvet; Mrs. Dan. O’Connor, cream silk and chrysanthe-
mums ; Miss Saville, sap-green velvet, Maltese lace and
diamonds; Carrie Swain, white satin and diamonds—
indeed, the show of diamonds was dazzling when the
lights were up. Intrinsically “Paul Jones” isn’t as
sparkling as a new tin-tack, and its melodies don’t soothe
the savage beast to any alarming extent, but the dressing
is good and grouping and gags are ditto. In the first act
Nellie Stewart (by the way, Aggie Kelton was mistaken for
Nellie and got stick a reception till she spoke) wears pale-
blue satin with wings of cream lace; in act two (first
part) a cream and pink-satin chintz with sage-green
slashing on the sleeves and a hat en suite; in the second
part a gorgeous costume in cream-satin with loads of gold
embroidery and a cream plume fan and aigrette ; in act
three, a bronze and blue moire over a crushed strawberry
jupe, the Watteau back of blue-satin, pink and blue hat
and shoes, hose and fan en suite. Paul Jones, as
played by the commanding Miss Marian Burton, is a sym-
metrical pirate in irreproachable attire, who generally
wears his hand to his head, and whose masherest get-up is
the violet velvet and silk and point lace of the last throb.
At the end of the second act the curtain rose again, re-
vealing a huge floral crown (presented by the women of
Bourke to Miss Stewart), and a pink and white ball from
Bland Holt with the merry message, “ Keep the ball a-
rolling.” Mr. Waddell, M.L.A., presented the crown
(which, like somebody’s wig, was an obvious misfit) to
Miss Stewart, and in a long preamble in a perceptible
Italian accent explained that “many hearts has warmed
at the thought,” &c.
Sydney will soon have a creche of her own under the
directorship of the Assiduous Ardill and the presidency of
Lady Darley. The premises are situated at 23 Macquarie-
street South, and donations of garments to set it going,
from a wardrobe point of view, will be thankfully re-
ceived by the sub-committee which includes Mrs. W. H.
Simpson, Mrs. Wilkinson and Miss Levy. The creche will
be kept going by subscription.
Speaking of babies—it is one of the marvels of the
century how the poor little imps ever grow large enough
to allow their parents to sit in the shade of them—l don’t
mean poor babies, but well-to-do prattlers with silk gar-
ments who choke over five-guinea corals. Very few people
can “ rare” a child so that in his old age he won’t want
fourteen hands to hold himself from going to pieces with-
The exposed sky-blue infant who careers past in a “pram.’
with Sonny in a loose sailor-suit shivering beside it as the
nursemaid dawdles home in the mist; the nursed baby
with warm wool toe-caps, but mottled calves above them ;
the cosy cherub sucking pea-green sweets or rolling over
a dog—all of these will probably not-feel-very-well at an
early age, and will gladly spend their pocket-money at the
chemist’s. Scrutinise any child you meet and if you have
an ’art in your buzzum—and more especially if you are an
old maid—you will see enough “neglect” to make your
scientific hair friz. N.B.—These thoughts always assail
your Sappho during the winter, though the fierce hot sun
and the gauze baby-bonnet have it pretty well all their
own way during the summer, goodness knows.
Thq “Chess tournament with living pieces,” at Sydney
Exhibition on 9th and 10th instant, was a novel enter
.tainment, which raised fleeting smiles on your Sappho’s
lovely visage from time to' time. For instance, a large
gentleman of Henry Eighthish outline frolicked fittingly
as a red ruler ; one bishop had an absurdly episcopalian
face, and if only his crook hadn’t resembled a meat-hook
he would have been convincing. The knights seemed
rather uncertain about the joints, but the queens—barring
a tendency to strut and glare above and beyond the rules
of the game—and the pretty pawns in blue and red re-
spectively were nice enough to fill the building, which
presented a rather starved appearance both times. The
“moves” were managed by heralds in evening dress, and
the game was fought out on a table at the head of the
huge board, while pianissimo waltzes were played all the
time, and vocal and other selections relieved the monotony
u little. It must have been thirsty, tiring work, standing
ibout in squares all the evening. On the last evening
one or two gentlemen “ chess” swooned poetically away,
but the lady pawns never budged an inch. Give a girl a
pretty dress, and she will stand on one foot on a hot plate
for a week (provided there’s somebody looking) and never
even feel it. Lord and Lady Carington, in walking dress,
attended by Captain Trench, looked in on the last even-
ing, when the proceedings wound up with an impromptu
dance.
The “School” matinee, on 11th inst., at the Criterion
was attended principally by suburban females who are
given over body and soul to these delightful orgies,
whither they swarm in dozens, each with a pound of
lollies to scrunch into its hollow tooth. J. L. Toole
looked cameo-isb in the half light of a box ; Irene Van-
brugh, in grey skirt, black jacket, and big black hat and
veil; and Kliza Johnstone, all in black and a red blouse
and black tie, occupied chairs in the circle, with Shelton
in solitaires as big as an egg, between them; while Effie
Liston, in black velvet fur and pointy-winged bonnet, and
Jenny Donald, in scarlet and a bronze bonnet, twinkled
all over the place. It was rather interesting to see how
violently the entire crowd on the stage “acted at” the
occupant of one particular box, and lots of new “ touches ”
were apparent—though the “ touch ” Boucicault gave-Mrs.
Bolton, which sent her kerflop over the garden seat, was
probably an unpremeditated effort. The dressing wag
better in the stalls than the circle.
If you had brought a little pin and tried to find it room
to stand you really couldn’t have got it in at J. L. Toole’s
sad “au revoir,” with S.R.O. hung at the door of the
Royal on 11th inst. And as the night was coldish grown
and bitter winds did howl and tap, there was no show of
collarbone and every woman wore a wrap, of which the
nicest were a black velvet edged with ostrich-feathers
over a black lace and net gown with scarlet flowers ; an
all-white with angel sleeves, and a dark-green velvet
edged with gold braid and worn with a white down boa.
But one frozen she had wrapped herself desperately in a
length of red woollen, and a lady in a wool cloud of broad
white and pink stripes ought to have known that sugar
bull’s-eyes are built that way. “ Off the Line” is a charm-
ing piece in which Miss Vanbrugh wears her dress too
short in front, and after it was over J.L.T. was thrown a
6x4 chaplet of autumn leaves, which struck your Sappho
as being a nasty thing to launch at a man who owns up to
sixty-four.
Sydney “Caterers’ Employes Union” now numbers 605
members, and at a recent meeting it was decided that,
after Ist prox., “ no Civil servant should bo employed to
compete with the unionists,” the A. J.C. writing unsolicited
to say that they would only employ union labour in future.
For which decision lashings of lovely girls with small
mouths and big appetites will want to bless the Union
with both hands, I know, for the thought of those Civi]
Service Roberts has sapped their buffet pleasures many a
time and oft. It’s easy enough to order twelve jellies and
a dish of ham from a total stranger, who circulates when
he is off the chain in quite another “ spear ” from your
own, and who is only professionally interested in the
activity of your mandibles, but to stow away jam-tarts
under the critical gaze of a Civil Service young man
attached to a false beard, who probably knows your best
boy or your brother, and who mentally tallies each mouth-
ful for future sarcastic reference when he isn’t incog. —
well, that is most unpleasant. And you never can tel
t’other from which, either. The slow lope of the knowing
professional waiter told to fetch a fork in a hurry, and the
tired waddle of the Government young man to whom
despatch is an unknown quality, are so exactly similiar
that only an expert could distinguish between them.
Oh, dear, what would old Mr. Fairfax say were he once
more alive and amongst us ? Look at this advertisement
from the guileless Sydney Mormno Herald :
"YOUNG Lady required as Housekeeper; preference
given to one of some refinement and small ex-
perience, but of domesticated habits, rather than one
of great practical knowledge. Kindly state full par-
ticulars and age.—Bachelor, 1098, G.P.O.
Ahem ! But with all due deference to his old experience
at the game, Sappho is quite afraid that “ Bachelor” is
making a mistake. Even if the young lady with the gilt
tresses and pink wrapper (for that, and not a good cook,
is evidently what he wants) is the most cuddlesome thing
in the world, he will soon be sorry he spoke when he finds
tinned food and bottled beer the main idea at meal-times,
I know. And when he has to fix his clothes with nails
and pieces of string, and his socks come home singly from
the wash, and his top hat gets brushed the wrong way
with a scrubbing-brush, anil the spiders drop down his
neck out of the cobwebs behind the door, while knots of
unpaid tradesmen hang on to the knocker all at once—
then he will be sorry he didn’t hire somebody with wide
ankles but vast experience, and who wasn’t too refined to
make gravy out of giblets.
The commingling of Carington and cat-call at Sydney
Royal on Bth inst., when Toole aptly enough revived the
“ Don ” was very funny whichever way it struck you.
The students behaved as usual—the only novelty being
the introduction of a hurdy-gurdy carried by a coining
savant, who played the part of monkey himself quite
naturally. Carington’s eagle eye kept flying round the
decorous family-circle (wholly reserved for the sprigs of
book-lamin’) with the steely regard of the stage-detective
in a borrowed wig. His lordship naturally felt uneasy
since he had written to the ’Varsity Dons to say that he
would be responsible for the students’ good behaviouri
but during the real performance you could have heard a
pin drop and the boys wore their very best manners.
There was an immense house, although the night was
dreadfully wet.
The Henry Edwards matinee at Her Majesty’s on 7th
inst. attracted a fair crowd, considering how badly the
thing had been advertised. The performance commenced
with the second throb of “After Dark,” which introduced
Handsome George (got up like “Punch” Burnand), who
played Old Tom, now re-baptised “ Old Charley,” for all
that sentimental sot is worth. Miss Leamington—a lady
who curves her under-lip like a sugar-scoop when she
warbles of “ lofe ” —sang in a pensive baritone two twitters,
and then we had Toole, and Billington, and Warner, and
Harry Quealey, and the 8.8. crowd, and the beneficiare,
who recited and was encored, and made a neat speech, in
which he said Sydney was a beautiful city and he felt sorry
to go, and actually admitted that it was only au revoir
One gets so accustomed to saying good-bye with a tear in
your eye to people who turn up smiling in a fortnight that
a person who owns up to an intention of returning ought
to be framed on the spot.
On dit that the residents of Darling and Potts Point
will shortly hold a fancy-dress ball to be arranged on the
“ subscription ” principle. The affair is going to be very
“ select,” but 200 is the allotted number of subscribers.
Upper-crust Sydney is only supposed to total one hundred.
It quite spoils my appetite to think that the aptly-
named Orpheus Society (it embraced the best professional
musicians in Sydney) should have to wind up its affairs
after the August concert—which I hope won’t be a hor.
rible puff-affair like the last one. The music was always
good without being classical to the verge of eccentricity,
and there was an air of camaraderie about the members
which was very soothing in this generation of petty pro-
fessional jealousies. On dit that if the business affairs of
the Society hadn’t been muddled up dreadfully at odd
times there would have been a “credit” side to the
ledger, “ but that’s poor consolation when the blinds are
taken down.” I hope the Orpheus Society will get its
second wind, so to speak
As Eurydice—legends tell—
Because of Orphy’s fleeting glance,
Was hustled back again to hell;
So be the O. Club’s fateful chance—
To only seem to say farewell
(Not that 1 liken here to hell!)
A friend of mine was lately present at au assemblage
where all were in full evening dress and a large-nosed
individual in a lot of linen arose from behind the piano
and remarked that “ during the next quarter, ladies ’ud
be admitted as members. It had been decided by the
commytee that the ladies could attend the smoke-con-
certs, as they were sure they wouldn’t mind the ter-
baccker.” Dead earnest, too.
Lord Carington will review the public-school cadets a 1
Moore Park, on 23rd prox., by special request. The lady-
teachers of the Department who are constructing gorgeous
flags for the small amateur Tommy Atkinses, intend re-
questing Lady Carington to present them to the various
corps. The numerical strength of N.S.W. cadet-force is
now 4800, and if in time Government manage to make
early military training compulsory, and therefore uni-
versal, they will, I think, do mnoh in the direction of
suppressing Inrrikinisin and of encouraging decent habits-
Quite the latest idea for discovering the probable woe
or weal of an engaged young man is the mascotte (?) coin,
which is a million times as mysterious and thrilling as the
split penny or the halved ring. And this is the recipe.
In some secluded spot, of course, far from key-holes and
unfeeling comment of scoffers, the lover produces a coin
(that is if he has one—the average Romeo is a very hard-up
Adonis in owed-for clothes, as a rule) and lets it slip down
the back of his Juliet’s neck. Then, if he is to become
her husband, the coin tears madly adown her spine and
falls out at her heels, but if Fate is down on him, it (the
coin) sticks somewhere in its perilous descent, and then,
I suppose, Katherine scoops the pool while Petruchio
kindly accepts this intimation from the mystic beyond and
goes and drops a penny down the collar of his second-best
girl. It is a very serious ceremony, and only slightly
reminiscent of the put-a-penny-in-the-slot machines, after
all.
Lady Carington will be “at home ” to all and sundry
at Government House on Thursday, July 17, and Thurs-
day, July 31, at half-past three. Lady Carington will hold
her final reception early in October. By the way, people
hope Sir William Robinson will be appointed Lieutenant
Governor, since Lady R. is a being of very social instinetSi
and it’s rather dismal to have Government House a blank
from a feminine aspect.
Yours affectionately,
SAPPHO SMITH.
The coats of the London mashers are now padded on
the shoulders with lead. Feather-headed and leaden-
shouldered—a capital combination.
A fashionable marriage is on the tapis up Windsor way.
The bride-expectant is niece of a much-respected old
public servant, lately deceased, and the groom a well-
known civic notable, who has been twice defeated in a
parliamentary election.
An unexpected development of the Woman’s Right
trouble has broken out in London. One hundred of the
lady students of the Royal Academy want to study from
the nude, and have petitioned the Council upon the
subject.
Lady Oaringtou will preside at the meeting of the
Women’s College committee (of which she is president) to
be held at the Town Hall on 18th instant. The latest
total of the subscription-list is £1999 Is. 9d. on paper and
£lO2B 13s. 3d. paid up. Those interested are Working
like Trojans in the cause.
They danced a weird and wild schottische ;
Her little feet flew faster
Than straining hounds let out of leash,
And no one feared disaster.
Until off flew her shoelet wee,
And, spite of blush so charming,
He really couldn’t help but see
Her hosen wanted darning.
Mr. George H. Cox, M.L.C., will leave Sydney for Japan
per next outgoing vessel. The trip is “ advised.”
During the absence from New South Wales of Major-
General Richardson, the “ command of the garrison” will
be assumed by Colonel Spalding.
Suburban Bicycle Club ball to happen at West’s room B
on 24th inst. Pharmacists’ ball at Nithsdale on the same
date.
The nauseatingly-Imperial first encore verse of “Two
Mariners Bold ” was partially hissed at the first Sydney
performance of “ Paul Jones ” while that funny little gag
about the “ resigning Governor ” caught on at once.
The Lodge St. Andrew Masonic ball, at West’s rooms on
9th inst., was attended by about 1(50 people, who evidently
enjoyed dancing out the long programme to the methodi-
cal time of De Green’s orchestra. A lady in pale-blue silk
with pearl trimmings and another in pink veiling were
very effective, and after supper the Masonic aprons and
regalia were adopted by the ladies with pretty effect.
Mr. and Mrs. D. C. Bell gave a most enjoyable dance at
their residence, Bayswater Villa, Double pay,’on 9th inst.
The grounds were studded with lanterns and fairy-lights,
and among the supper-table adornments were Titania pots
of delicate ferns, while floor and music were both good.
Mrs. D. C. Bell wore a handsome black lace gown, mingled
with carubia-red merv ; Mrs. John Young a bewitching
dress in primrose satin, striped with white velvet, made
en traine over a jupe of Maltese lace and gold beads and
magnificent diamonds - Mrs. Guy, yellow satin and white
moire with scarves of cream chiffon, and pearl bandeaux
in the hair ; Mrs. Mitchell, black merv and lace over
sulphur-yellow, and clusters of lilies of the valley ; Mrs.
Fischer-Cripps, black silk, with cuirass of bugles and high
Medici collar, cluster of pink roses on the corsage, diamond
bracelets; Miss Fischer-Cripps, white silk arid saffron
roses; Miss Hall, cream-broidered silk with turquoise
brooch. Duriiig'the evening Mrs. Fischer-Cripps sang a
vocal waltz in her very best voice.
The wedding last week of Mr. R. Hope Atkinson, the
popular manager of the N.Y. Equitable Insurance Co.,
and Miss Bella Duguid, eventuated at St. John’s Church,
Darlinghurst, and was graced by a handsomely-gowned
wedding-party,and a beautifully-decorated place of sacri-
fice. The day cleared up beautifully just in time for the
ceremony, which was a very good augury, and the bride
looked handsome in the usual snowflake outfit. A feature
of this wedding was the beautiful posy carried by the
bride.
On 3rd inst. Mr. W. Jarrett, of Venetia, Glebe Point,
gave a juvenile fancy-dress ball in honour of the birthday
of Master Arthur Jarrett, when 120 guests were present,
and danced to quite an alarming hour. The small host
appeared as Marcel from the opera, “Old Guard,” and
looked captivating, and the other dresses were well carried
out.
Mr. and Mrs. J. S. Carroll, of Lugar Brae, VVaverley,
have issued invitations for a dance to be held on Wednes-
day, 16th inst.
A N.S.W. country lady has incurred the criticism of her
circle by issuing cards of suave invitation with “admis-
sion five shillings” (proceeds devoted to acharitable object)
writ large in a conspicuous position. She also writes
“R.S.V.P.” across the corner at an aggravating society
slope, and the entire female community rose and snorted
wildly. They said that cards of invitation were cheap
luxuries if you charged for the shavoo. However, such a
practice is frequent in England.
A “loyal” contemporary has discovered that the
Queen’s favourite song is “And ye shall walk in silk
attire.” Nevertheless Victoria sticks to cashmere and
lasting boots.
Sir George and Lady limes were “At Home” on sth
Inst, to a number of guests, the occasion being the silver
wadding of the host and hostess. A very pleasant evening
was spent,
A delightful soiree musicale was given by Mrs. Hazel,
of Oakland, Darling Point, on 4th inst., to commemorate
the great American occasion. Mrs, Hazel gave another
successful musical on 11th inst.
The spinsters’ farewell dance to Miss Ethel Terry as
Miss Ethel Terry, took place at Ryde, on Bth inst. There
were a great many pretty girls in pretty dresses, Miss
Terry wearing white silk ; Miss Ethel Payne eau-de-nil;
Miss Alice Wright, pale-blue lutestring silk; Miss Cope-
land, white corded silk and saffron roses. Miss Terry’s
promotion takes place at the Cathedral, on 17th inst.
Mr. E. A. Garland was presented on 9th inst. by his com-
rades of the N.S.W. Legislative Council with a very chaste
salver and a duck of an afternoon tea-service as a mark of
the intense sympathy felt for him in the face of his ap-
proaching nuptials. The presentation was neatly made
by Mr. Calvert, clerk of the Parliaments.
Quite the sleepiest cradle-song possible is the “ Ber-
ceuse,” composed by Charles Huenerbein and vice-regally
dedicated. The first sliding movement makes you feel
gapish and snoozey, and at the end only an intense desire
to keep awake and listen prevents you from absolutely
snoring. As is only natural, Charles plays his own in-
spiration to perfection.
The “ French Exhibition ” recently opened in London
is said to be chiefly remarkable for a display of ladies’
corsets.
Mr. Crick, M.L.A., lias just been married to Miss May
Kelly, niece of Mr. J. D. Young, of Sydney.
Among the fashionable Sydney weddings of the last
few days was that of Mr. T. Burton Oaden to Miss Ida
Brereton Atherton, eldest daughter of the well-known
surgeon of that name.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Theatre Royal “I’aul Jones.”
Her Majesty's “ Meg, or the Castaway.
Criterion “A Doll’s House.”
Cyclorama Gettysburg.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEE!
Princess’s . . “ Romeo and Juliet.’
Alexandra * “Master and Man.”
Theatre Royal “ Black Country.”
New Bijou “ Pickpocket."
Opera House “Now-a-Days.”
The production of “ A Doll’s House a
play dealing with woman’s social position and
office—at Sydney Criterion, by its introduction of a
playwright who is at once a social reformer and a
theatrical innovator, marks an epoch in Sydney
stage history. Henrik Ibsen, however, has
written for posterity : his plays will fail to achieve
popularity with audiences accustomed to see life
caricatured on the boards, nor will “EtDukke-
hejm ” attract largely until men cease to deny
women spiritual partnership, and women, under-
standing and understood, dispense with the
baubles and shackles of puppetdom.
# * #
Utterly heedless of stage traditions, dra-
matic construction and contrasts, disregarding
almost entirely the effects arising from move-
ment,” and the machinery of incident, situation,
and climax, Ibsen hews out, so to speak, from
everyday life a section for stage representation.
Delineating character as with a crow-quill, by deli-
cate touches and lines of microscopic fineness, his
stories; lit up at times by sentences that thro w a lurid
light on human incentives, advance with a slowness
akin to monotony, and the ordinary playwright
would assuredly cram all the “business” of “A
Doll’s House ” into one act, deeming the separa-
tion of husband and wife but a prologue to the
play. Nevertheless, Ibsen is an artist of singular
force and his men and women are not automata,
but flesh-aud-blood beings. He has not only—fol-
lowing in the track of Goethe developed the
drama of psychological analysis ; he has, in Nora,
created an entirely new type, an original character,
and that, too, in Stage-land, where all the latter-day
types are stereos., and every character but a replica
of some previous one. In the teeth of modern
usage, possibly animated by the universality of
genius, Ibsen often merely suggests, does not
clearly indicate, and leaves gaps to be filled in at
will by the varied individuality of his audiences.
This is most marked in the unconventional con-
clusion to “A Doll’s House,” where the sudden
removal of causes for discontent points to the usual
finale, and an audience prematurely hauling on
wraps, is rudely disillusionised by the, to them,
inexplainable conduct of the heroine, who, believ-
ing physical union to be immoral where spiritual
communion has no place, calmly leaves her hus
band's arms, forsakes her home and little ones.
* * *
This is highly unsatisfactory to those whe
have always bowed before idols graven by imita
tive playwrights and'sanctified by association and
mildewed traditions. The stage-author has sc
long done all the thinking for his audiences that
the final fall of the curtain on an unfinished story
sCems to them tantamount -to being defrauded oi
at least threepence in every shilling paid for ad-
mission, and so, like Nora Helmer, they go out
into the night filled with unsatisfied cravings and
inveighing bitterly against Norwegian writers
whose methods are newfangled and whose literary
pabulum is neither side-splitting nor hair-raising.
Home desertion for purely spiritual reasons is not
a common offence, and the ordinary earthy person
utterly fails to recognise the verity of this picture
of the conflict that would rage in the suddenly-
awakened soul of a long misjudged—and as a
consequence, self-misjudging—highly-strung and
gifted woman. None but they whose abilities
have lain latent for years, whose spiritual yearn-
ings have been stifled for lack of appreciative con-
tact, can wholly understand the revolutionary
character of such an awakening. The freed soul
is driven out into the wilderness to make fresh
mental adjustments, to commune with itself.
Therefore, those who can thoroughly appreciate
such a drama are, of necessity, few.
# # *
Recognising this want of finality, dis-
approving of the wife’s conduct, Andrew Lang
has, as an antidote, written a sequel to the story,
wherein Nora, returning to Christiana on a lecture-
tour, sees, unmoved, her deserted husband wrecked
by debauchery, and the withdrawal of her
daughter’s body from the river, wherein she had
thrown herself because the renunciation of a lover
was the price demanded for the freedom of an
embezzling brother. That is the sort of conclusion
that will please the goody-goody minds who
delight in awful examples, but utterly fails to
keep the story on Ibsen’s higher plane of thought.
This play has already been styled indelicate by
blushless persons who calmly sit out the anatomical
exposures and lightly-veiled indecencies of leg-
shows, or the prurient sentimentality of plays deal-
ing with ravishments and murders. Certainly it has
one risky situation, but its indelicacy, as compared
with that of the entertainments cited, is that of the
Venus of Milo contrasted with that of Phryne.
“ The office of the theatre is primarily to amuse.”
True, Sydney Morning Herald, but different
minds find amusement in different ways, and so
“ A Doll’s House” has more attractions for, is
more “amusing” to the student of social pro-
blem, the lecture-goer, than to the reader of yellow-
backs and the loud-laughter-lover. It may, there-
fore, not prove such a feeder for the treasury as
the plays that will follow ; but, nevertheless, it
will grow steadily in public favour.
# # *
Janet Achurch, the original Nora at Lon-
don Novelty, is a charming actress, whose social
expression is vivid, but natural, graceful in
movement and repose, with a voice of wonderful
sweetness and flexibility and a capacity for
expressing emotion that carries her up and
down the gamut of passion without a single
false note. On opening night she had to
fight the noisiest gallery ever gathered together in
this house; but, after the ejection of one or two
deities—the overslop from the Royal, thirsting
for bouffe business—things quietened down, and
from thence mind triumphed over matter and the
actress, scarcely ever off the stage, had them in
her power. It is a good many years since an
actress of this lady’s calibre visited these shores ;
this we say despite the faint praise of the Sydney
Morning Herald’s critic, who must have some
unpleasant memories of William Archer, Ibsen’s
translator on this occasion. The names of George
Titheradge, Herbert Flemming, Charles Charring
ton, and Fanny Enson are a guarantee of efficient
support. The scene in which all the action takes
place is a very fine interior, from the brush of
ftedley Churchward.
* * *- *
Despite its substantial limbs, snapely only
in a few instances—notably in that of Marian Bur-


|f in need of a stimulant ta&e'Wolfe’s Schnapps
A GHOST
is not a photograph, nor a photo, a ghost—but a good photo, is a
true reflection of the original. For high-art photos, go to the
Londoin Palace of Art, 10 Park-street, Sydney. Country photographers’ work from developement
to completion executed at lowest prices. Bromides a speciality, Staff of artists kept for working up.
Every bodynow-a-days drinks Wolfe’s Schnapps.
The Professional and Literary men of London
five their preference to Estekbkook’s “ Relief ”
’EM. It is a swift and easy writer, and preserves
the characteristics of the hand. Samples free at
all Stationers.
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
ton, whose manly stride delights the artistic soul
“Paul Jones ” will, we think, hardly run so long at
Sydney Royal as it did at Melbourne Opera House.
The story is stale and ill-told, and the music (it has
been hawked and hacked about the streets for
weeks by itinerant Italians) as a rule, tinkly when
not noisy. Moreover, it seems probable that
better effect has been attained in Sydney by smaller
orchestras. Hennings’ scenery is particularly fine,
and Habbe’s interior is not to be sneezed at, and
the dressing is gorgeous, but the opera is chiefly
preserved from dismal and feeble failure by the
,rood looks and vocalisation of Marian Burton,
the archness and tunefulness of Aggie Kelton,
and the winsome skittishness and unvarying melo-
diousness of our very own Nellie, assisted by the
capital burlesque acting and gaggeries of the two
Georges, Snazelle and Leitch, and the only Henry
Hodson, backed up by the clever grotesque dancing
of Johnny Gourlay, who, unfortunately for the
audience, is on only in the last act. No one else
has much to do; and the performances of those
whose opportunities are few were inclined to make
us wish they were fewer.
** * *
At Sydney Gaiety on Monday night last,
F. E. Hiscocks let loose another aggregation of
assorted talent branded an English and American
Speciality Union. By special arrangement with
Frank Marcellas Clark “ Irish Aristocracy,” alias
“ Muldoon’s Picnic,” was the vehicle used to
carry along the said aggregation. Mr. Clark has
been going up and down and about the earth for
some years past with this piece in a grip-
sack ; and, unlike Madeira, it has not gained
flavour from much voyaging. “ Irish Aristo-
cracy ” is a salmagundi of Belfast brogue, Donegal
whiskers, grease-paint, a bottle of ink, a croquet-
mallet, and a sad-eyed Jerusalem pony, who, in
his own line of business, is equal to most variety
actors. To carry off this jumble of absurdities
Frank M, Clark is assisted by M. E. Gilbert,
El wood, the male soprano, Maggie Oliver, and
Tilly Lake, who do their 'best. Added to these,
as specialists, are two new-comers, the Harvey
Bros., who caught on considerably in their musi-
cal act. The taller of the two is a good comedian
and as agile as a panther.
** & *
At Her Majesty’s, after a run of seven
weeks, “Old Tom” will not be on tap “After
Dark,” owing to the arrival of “Meg: a Cast-
away” on the premises on Saturday, July 19th,
when Maggie Moore will make her first appear-
ance at this house in the name part, and will,
without doubt, receive a hearty greeting.
*
The plans and specifications of an Eiffel
Tower for Sydney are now being got out by a
Melbourne engineering Company. The usual
syndicate has been got together privately. It (the
Tower, not the syndicate) is to be 300 feet high,
with a base of 120 feet. There will be four floors
or stages, with shops, divans, &c., on the lower
one, and a small observatory on the top—an Otis
elevator working up the centre. It is to be erected
near Darlinghurst Gaol. Besides this, the same
people propose one for St. Kilda esplanade, and
the Melbourne Cyclorama Co. also talk of one.
* Dt# *
At Bondi Aquarium lately the Sunday-
concert offertory has resulted in treasury returns
3ual to the palmiest days of bob-a-headery.
urray and M‘Laren walk here again on Aug. 1.
& * * *-
At Sydney Cyclorama John Burns has
taken a fresh lease of life, and the management
have hired a stalwart, red-haired, street-parolling
person, who wears a twenty-inch c r>l, ar, to mark
his visible linen to that effect.
** * *
Darlinghurst Skating Rink offers prizes for
fancy skating and a £lO trophy for the best ama-
teur mile-skater. Football on skates is now a
feature of the show.
The Municipal Council of Brisbane has
advertised J. L. Toole with a mayoral reception.
Mr. T. kept his best wine to the conclusion of the
Sydney season, and thereby imperilled his reputa-
tion as an actor, if not as a manager. When the
fires of life begin to burn down, the appetite for
“fat’’becomes insatiable; like the late lamented
Mrs. Sprat, Toole wants to sop up all the oleagin-
ousness on the theatrical platter. His Harry
Coke almost deserves classification with Billing-
ton’s Perrybingle as the best thing of the season ;
Eliza Johnstone’s Mrs. Coke, Tilly Sloeboy and
Lady Creamly are worthy of grateful remembrance,
and Westland’s Jem Brass was a very clever
character sketch. “Johnny” threatens to do
Sydney again on return from New Zealand. He
will not be such a draw then, and as the Royal is
too big for his methods, a smaller house might do
him more justice. Unfortunately, there is only
one popular comedy theatre in Sydney.
«» » *
The Rev, Charles Clark nightly meets, at
Sydney School of Arts, big crowds of old and new
frienls—mainly perhapsof the intensely respectable
and wouldn’t-be-seen-at-a-leg-show sort of people
over whom the Rev. R. S. Smythe exercises so
salutary an influence—and from the appearance of
his first feature round the corner of the set scene,
up to his final disappearance in the same locality
he gets the applause he deserves, and more than
many men could carry with the same degree of
conscious desert. Charles Clark is a born lecturer,
requiring no adventitious aids to fortune beyond
the ordinary dressing-table of commerce scantily
covered by a visibly too-small area of frowsy cloth
topped by the bedroom carafe and the manifest
toothbrush-tumbler (it is by a transparent hypo-
crisy which spoils the tout ensemble that the tooth-
brush is omitted), and supported by the chilling
rigidity of a bent-wood Austrian chair. But he
wants no properties, for he sails straight into his
subject and at once gets a grip on all the human
sympathy which is out for the night with its store
clothes oh in front of the platform. Mr. Clark is
one of the few parsons who is able to be a parson
and allow you to forget it at the same time. The
reverend gentleman has all the elements of success
to support him in the search for a seoond Aus-
tralian fortune And we are going to hear him
every time..
** * *
The beautiful “Romeo and Juliet” show, at
"*®’h°urne Princess’s, has undoubtedly caught
yie fair sex by their silken tresses. Even Mrs.
Rotter’s eccentric graces possess a weird attraction
for many women, while tne attitude of dress-circle
females towards the exquisite Bellew is of a gloat-
mg, idolatrous, O-for-one-sweet-kiss character.
a ac * 8 Persuade the meekest
Adolphus of the party to buy photos of their fancy
vision from a cynical boy in an Eton collar, who
hawks round “Mister Blew” just as though he
were a special edition of the ’Erald. “Which
attitude will yer ’ave ’im in ?” asks the boy. The
gins invariably tdll Adolphus to buy the fetish in
three positions, and the boy goes off saying “Sold
again. Gosh ! ain’t there a run on B’lew since
the weather got warmer !” This sort of thing is
hard upon Adolphus, who for the rest of the
evening sits unnoticed, uncared-for, and alone, so
to speak, while the darlings he has “shouted” to
this expensive tragedy nurse B’lew on their laps,
or slip the portrait down their low-neck bodices,
and breathe hard. Sweet, sweet vision ! Foolish,
foolish dream ! But how are they to know that
Apollo’s wiry, grey wool is curled by machinery,
that most of his beauty is laid on with a mop, or
that those delicious yet utterly impossible calves
are part and parcel of his stage stockings ? Why
should they know, forsooth ? O, do not wake ’«m
—let ’em dream again.
* * #
Mrs. Potter’s representations of Juliet
average about up to the first-night form. Some-
times she is nicer and sometimes she isn’t. The
lady’s acting is certainly not mechanical; at times
it appears unstudied, too much unstudied. There
are people who declare Mrs. Potter’s voice, man-
ner, attitudes and facial freaks to be delightfully
natural, but when those people are held fast by a
glittering eye and required to explain whether the
remainder of creation is a mass of affectation —well,
they give it up. Romeo has dropped a little of
his Irvingism, especially when he shrieks at the
holy friar and ends up by taking his own measure
for his little grassy mound. But so long as Bellew
continues to look lovely, the minor details signify
very little. It is worth noticing that Mercutio’s
business has been spoilt in the scene where Juliet’s
nurse comes fussing on with Peter. Life is too
short to explain how and why Sass loses a piece
of “fat” at this point; enough to say that a
gloomy story is thereby deprived of a time-
honoured joke (or was, during the first few nights)
for some reason not apparent to the lay mind. The
scenery improves on acquaintance, and “Romeo
and Juliet” will maintain its gorgeous notoriety
for another fortnight at least.
-» *
At the Royal things are getting as quiet
as a deceased Chinaman. On Saturday night the
management set up a lugubrious five-act adapta-
tion from one of Charles Reade’s novels, and
called it “The Black Country.” It consisted of
duplicity and coal-dust, aggravated by the be-
haviour of a little man in shocking bad trousers,
whose chief trouble in life was his inability to
“ silence ” everybody at critical moments. At
last he got most of the drama down a mine and
tried what an explosion would do, after which a
degraded coal-heaver let in a flood of water with a
pick-axe and so washed the hero and heroine into
a place of safety. There wasn’t sufficient light
down amongthebest Wallsend toseewhat happened
exactly, but as the leading sufferers turned up in
the last act they had evidently escaped from the
mine after groping around the gloom for eight
days without refreshments. Save for this sensa-
tion scene “ The Black Country ” would be more
trying than a black eye. In addition to the little
man with the trousers there is a large man with a
black moustache, represented by Captain de
Burgh, requiring to be silenced as soon as possible.
About half of the entire trouble falls upon J, H.
Clyndes, and he certainly fills the situation with
vigour, especially when they get blown up in the
coal-hole. It is a pity that such a creditable
effort should be wasted on a drama which is
destined to die in its grimy youth, unregretted by
the few who knew it.
** * *
With four opposition theatres revelling in
deeds of darkness and sudden death, the present
double bill at Melbourne Bijou comes as a mild
stimulant to the heart bowed down. Pinero’s
farcical comedy “The Rocket,” although not so
happily cast as it might be, is a sufficiently joyous
firework for a six-nights’ season, which was about
the limit of its endurance in Sydney. The mana-
gerial Brough, always amusing and popular,
strikes the wrong key in his conception of a bogus
Chevalier wandering around Europe on his wits.
Pinero wrote a passable character, and the actor
strips it of every vestige of human nature, and
turns the whole business into an unsubstantial
joke. The pretty little play “ Barbara” assisted
to send up “The Rocket,” and introduced Miss
Lilian Seccombe to a Melbourne audience. Except
that the young lady seemed shrill in her lower
register, and a little wanting in sympathy else-
where, her first appearances were not against her.
On Saturday there is to be a return of Anson,
Lyndal, Pattie Brown, and the immortal
“waiter,” Boucicault, in the good old “Pick-
pocket.”
*** & •
“Master and Man” flourishes according
to anticipations at the Alexandra, and on Satur-
day that gentle dawg, Beelzebub, gnashed his tusks
at a great multitude. The affection of Beelzebub
for the Bland Holts is quite pathetic. He holds
the lantern for them while they exchange vows of
love on the roadside, and watches over them in
their pub. like an uncle. There is some good
acting in the drama, apart from the magnificent
performance of Beelzebub. Lawrence’s thrilling
picture of wild despair in the furnace-scene is not
more excellent than Maggie Knight’s terror when
a bold, bad man locks the door and tells her, in a
tenor voice, that he loves her more than is proper
under the circumstances. Miss Knight has never
done anything better than this representation of a
woman’s fear of the stronger sex. She fights
Lothario with both hands at once, and un-
doubtedly gives him what the Rev. Spalding
called “good hard knocks” before the irre-
pressible husband rolls up with the inevit-
able crowd at his heels. Rosier, an actor
with a good English record, plays, the husband
in the best “reserved force” style. Augustus
Glover has a noisy part that suits his vigorous
voice and method ; Baker and Albert Norman
take tricks, and none of the others disgrace them-
selves. Bland and Mrs. Holt appear to have
little to do with the narrative, except in the way
of creating a popular diversion. The former’s
cockney humour never loses its flavour, while
Mrs. Bland Holt is beyond all question the
brightest, freshest, and most natural (as the word
is understood outside Brown-Potter circles) come-
dienne on our stage. Her laugh alone is sufficient
to establish the reality of any situation on which
she allows it to ripple.
-Mf -£ *- #-
“ Now-a-Days,” which gets a constant suc-
cession of absurdly extravagant notices from a cer-
tain morning paper, is playing to fair business at the
Opera House. As matters go at present in Mel-
bourne, there is no chance of such a puerile drama
booming, for the mere sake of its one perfect char-
acter sketch. Jack Saxon, in the present writer’s
opinion, doesn’t properly belong to “ Now-a-
Days.” The author evidently prigged Jack from
somewhere and built four acts of vulgar inanity
around his fine, breathing carcase, ordaining him
to represent conflicting Yorkshire emotions while
a mob of artificial bookmakers, jockeys, blacklegs,
and girls all hang upon the fortunes of a stolen
racehorse. Mr. Rignold’s performance is very
strong and wholesome, but there have been equally
clever bits of acting seen in much more coherent
dramas.
** * *
The Phonograph is still holding forth at
Melbourne Waxworks, but the general idea seems
to be that a machine which reproduces Gladstone’s
voice in the tones of an alarm-rattle or “lady’s
tormentor” is dear at two shillings a visit. It is
this very weakness-of the phonograph which sug-
gests a world of opportunities lost by a not very
wide-awake management. All people are the same
when heard through the funnel, and there should
have been nothing to prevent the Maomahons or
the elegant Professor from bawling messages from ■
Queen Victoria to her luvin subjects, or a speech
from Bismarck to the Germans of Australia, a
remark by President Harrison, a few words from
Parnell and O’Brien and Dillon to the bhoys, into
the funnel, and grinding them out to the different
nationalities directly appealed to. ‘ ‘ Great Irish
Night—Patriotic address by Parnell,” “Imperial
Federation Night—The Queen will speak a few
words with her own Silvery Voice.” The Phono-
graph has been wasted. It seldom soars above a
banjo solo, or something equally uninspiring.
They haven’s enough sense to whistle down the
receiver, and then turn the wave sounds off the
wax under the disguise of Adelina Patti’s best top
notes. At the Victoria Hall there are the same
old niggers, and the Gaiety is to be reopened by
Slade Murray next Saturday (19th).
*& # *
R. S. Smythe did excellent business
in S.A. with Rev. Charles Clark. The other
evening he hit upon a novel and happy combina-
tion when the two Charleses—Clark and Santley
—gave the Adelaide public a treat, the former
being heard to great advantage as a reciter and
the latter in oratorio. The Town Hall was
crammed in every part and the booking of reserved
seats was phenomenal. The Governor was pre-
sent, accompanied by Lady Kintore and the Ladies
Keith Falconer, Captain Thompson, and Captain
Stopford, of H.M.S. Curagoa. Mr. Clark was
very well received and had to respond to treble
calls. “ Over the Hill to the Poorhouse ” and its
sequel and “Bob Cratchit’s Christmas Dinner”
were most appreciated. Santley also had a great
reception and was encored in a most emphatic
manner. The arrangements were very complete,
and “the Much-Travelled” must have been very
vyell satisfied with his experiment. By the by,
Santley remarked to a friend in Adelaide a few
weeks ago that “ ‘the Much-Travelled ’ was “ the
best manager he had ever met in his long experi-
ence. ”
sf» * *
“P. J, Marks,” writing to the Sydney D.
T., says :
I have been asked by correspondents in such opposite
parts of the globe as St. Petersburg and St. Louis
(America) whether it be true that an opera, “Plofed,”
has been performed in Tolapuk in Brisbane. This I can
hardly credit, but perhaps some of your readers may be
able to enlighten me on this point.
We hasten to reply that “ Plofed” has been perpe-
trated by a brace of Bananaland geniuses, although
not yet performed. For the benefit of our readers
in St. Petersburg and St. Louis, however, we chip
off a slab from the first act :~
“ Scheneman XI. Enterlup. Plofed unt Pluffer-Duolob”
Plofed : “Yang Kang schwar zee, flolatim zum be,
Ji-matan un bing poke aglok.”
Pluffer: “ Ji-nok zee wah, she songsong wi Kah,
Un vaturen schweezung cum-pok.”
Descendo curtaino. Goansuter seeaman.
“ Plofed” recalls sweet reminiscences of Canton
and Berlin, and the effect of its grand finale may
be compared to a collision between a van-load of
sauerkraut and a truckful of rat-pies.
* * iff *
Johnny Sheridan has had a.really good
time of it at the Adelaide Royal, despite the
formidable opposition of Charles Clark. “ Uncle
Tom’s Cabin” drew well for a week, and three
nights of “Fun on the Bristol,” slightly re-
modelled and improved upon, brought satisfactory
results. Frank Thornton, accompanied by the
veteran Harwood, and supported by artists whose
capabilities are well and favourably known, starts
a farewell season with that ill-used curate, the
Rev. Robert Spalding.
** * #
“ An Old Hand,” whose letter appeared
in last issue, asked, “ Has the real reason of the
failure out here of ‘ Captain Swift ’ ever been
printed? I think not.” The Bulletin thinks
that it printed the real reason when the drama was
played in Melbourne. Our jiotice likened Warner
to a man who uses a steam-hammer to break an
egg, and splutters the yolk all over the place.
Moreover the company, with the one exception of
Herbert Flemming, were described as being either
too weak or too stagey for the work.
* * # 5*
Christie Murray (now with St. MfW’s
Company in New Zealand) has finally determined
to adopt the stage as a profession. From which
we gather that Mr. Murray is still an impression-
able bachelor.
At Poverty Point.
of the two E. T. Smiths, in Adelaide, the brewer
and the teetotal lecturer, reminds us of a third and greater
E. T. Smith, the father of “ Don’t-you-feel-well ” L. L.
Smith. This E. T. Smith was the Drury-lane manager,
a most remarkable card. He once hired a thousand-
pound note from Genese, the West End money-lender,
Just to flash about and inspire confidence. Smith be-
lieved thoroughly in O. V. Brooke, and engaged him at
Drury-laneon his return from America. Brooke then
swept the hoard, the rivalry of Chas. Kean, Phelps, Van-
denhott, Barry Sullivan, and Anderson being naught
against his Othello, lago, Richelieu, Virginius, Sir Giles
Overreach, and other parts with which he crowded Old
Drury.
Judge Casey, in Melbourne, handing over the testi-
monial to Plumpton, remarked that he had proved opera
could succeed there. What sort ?
Pity Dick Goldsbrough and Sam Ramsden didn’t sur-
vive to see William Rignold as Jack Saxton, the Yorky.
Here’s a “ What’s-this ?” from Sydney E. News :—“ In an
orchestra, when the violins strike up after - the wind band
has been prominent for a time, I see often, but not always,
a shower of bright white dust or sand, being crisp and
glittering. I am taking note of the occurrence of this
impression, and think it is becoming more frequent; but
it is not invariable like the others. If I know the scoring
of a piece well, they slightly precede the instrument they
belong to; only the objects are vague and faint till the
sound begins." If we wrote like that the public would
say “ Got ’em again 1 ”
A Melbourne critic wants Romeo to come spick and
span out of Juliet’s chamber, and RopieO won’t. Irving’s
Romeo was the worst of nightmares; Anson would be
almost as good.
When Creswick came to Australia he was bald as •
billiard-ball, but had as good a wig as the skill of Fox or
Clarkson could produce. Toole says he went to see poor
Widdicoinb the day before he died, and Creswick was
there. Widdicomb said: “ I’m worse to-day, and 1 believe
it’s Cressy’s wig. Oh, I never can get over that wig!”
Miss Linden, in Toole’s London Company, achieved a
perfect burlesque of Sarah Bernhardt as Fedora, in
‘‘ Stage Dora,” without having ever seen her, and Miss
Linden only copied Mrs. Bernard Beere’s imitation of Sara
—a shadow of a shade, a mere mimic’s mimic, as Churchill
writes, in his “ Dunciad,” of Foote or somebody.
Judge, Casey, ladling out the Plumpton testimonial,
took occasion to lecture on grand opera, saying it wouldn’t
do at all without a ballet, lie waxed learned on ballets,
declaring that Berlin was first, with Paris, London,
\ienna, and St. Petersburg nowhere. Whereupon Man-
grove chipped in with an assurance that his Honor was
wrong, and ho meant to bring a ballet from Frankfort, the
best place,
W . J. Holloway is living plainly but comfortably with
bis family in London, and has been elected to the Green
Boom Club, where he hobnobs with Irving, Tree, Willard,
and all the big fellows. Tree and Willard seem to be
ousting Barrett in the race for second to Irving. Willard’s
Judah lands him in the front line.
K. D. Davies, the ventriloquist, has given up the stage,
and taken to brokering in Adelaide. The little man lias
worked up a good business and is well liked. “Ain’t it
lovely, Teddy ?”
Rev. R. S. Smy the is temporarily managing E. T. Smith,
the latest temperance lecturer—who wears longhair and
a sealskin coat, and frankly says he has come here to do
good and make money.
It is said that while travelling in Germany Dr. Von
Bulow, hearing some wretched performer worrying the
pianoforte in an adjoining room, stalked in his long
dressing-gown into the apartment, where a large number
of guests were assembled, motioned the unfortunate
pianist from the chair, carefully sat down, allowing his
hands to wander over the keys, and just at the moment
when the guests were expecting the great man to play,
calmly locked the piano, pocketed the key, and walked to
his own apartment.
Charles Sant leydetained in Melbourne by the action
brought against him for malicious prosecution by his ex-
manager, Price, was to have sung at the Crystal Palace
June festival. He has refused to perform in Melbourne.
Certain members of the Fauntleroy Company, from
whose number the Berkleys and the Wotherspoons were
conspicuously absent, published a farewell testimonial to
Henry Edwards in the Sydney papers in which they state
that “ in this instance ‘ parting is not sweet sorrow,’ but
we have the consoling reflection that our loss will be
others’ again, for we feel assured that wherever you may
be, under whatever circumstances you may be placed, you
can but secure the respect and honour of all who may
have the proud privilege of associating with you.”
Cora Tanner describes the sensation produced (in her)
by wearing trousers, as simply delightful, and says, “Why,
I can sit down just like a man.”
Agent Twinning, who has been through India with
Maccabe, sailed in the Parramatta the other day to make
arrangements for the Potter-Beilew season which opens
there in September. Charles Westmacott will second
“ young man ” Bellew. Mrs. Potter returns to Australia
at Easter.
The Melbourne papers heap Arthur Laurence’s little
plate with jam for his Humpy Logan in ‘“Master and
Man.” Arthur has a sweet tooth.
A Miss Hemming, a local amateur, has given a lyric and
dramatic recital at Sandhurst Princess’. The Bendigo
press speak highly of her versatility.
A benefit is proposed to the Kendals, who made £23,000
touring in America. Absurdity could not be carried
further
The Apothecary in ‘‘Romeo and Juliet,” at Melbourne
Princess’, makes up for all the world like Town Clerk
Fitzgibbon, about the head.
Dan Barry is doing big biz in Western Victoria.
It is said that a manager, not noted for the extensive-
ness of his salary list, now visiting Australia, offered
Pallie Browne a London engagement. The little woman
said No t
We heard that Brian Darley was dead, and so we laid
our ears hack and wrote his obituary in a neat if not
gaudy fashion. Then it struck us that details were want-
ing and so we saved trouble by not publishing it. It still
remains in type, however, and if B.D. still takes any per-
sonal interest in what people say about him, he might do
worse than call round and take a read.
Musgrove goes to London to bring out a Grand Double
Opera Company—that is to say, he will scour Paris,
Berlin, and Milan, too. This company is for grand opera,
but probably Musgrove won't start till the Nellie Stewart
Company has finished with New Zealand, as well as
Sydney and Brisbane. Simonsen prospered with his first
Italian company, but did not act with judgment in his
next venture. Musgrove doesn’t want any guarantee
from subscribers, but will go in on his own hook.
Willie Elton met with a very painful and severe accident
at Christchurch (N.Z.) lately while exercising a young
horse, and was for three weeks in bed and at death’s door.
However, he has been spared to make us laugh.
Dear S.M. Herald critic, pray remember that Miss
Nellie Stewart gave £5O from her private purse towards
the Bourke Relief Fund. George Rignold gave nothing
in coin. Waddell’s twaddle was ill-timed, and the bouquet
business a fizzle, but, all the same, our Nellie gave quickly
in the hour Of need.
Louis Engel’s revolting treatment of his unhappy larlv■-
pupil has provoked the Guildhall School of Music to place
a number of ladies on the teaching staff. An illustrious
Italian musician, now in retirement, enjoyed a similar
reputation in Australia to that of Engel.' "And then the
old Tasmanian liber A of years ago, who composed such
charming music, what an unholy fascination did lie
exercise over all women, despite his elephantiasis and his
years!
Mr. Vivian, M.L.A. (N.S.W.), has hope-
lessly nicknamed himself “Brother” Vivian.
And Dan. O’Connor will hereafter be known as
‘ Bobby ” O’Connor in Post-office circles.
While the compensation to publicans’ dis-
pute is raging so fiercely, it seems peculiar that
the claims of Marshall’s Tonic Nervine to provide
a solution of the difficulty are so completely over-
looked by platform orators.
Alfred Bennett’s latest is to propose in a
leading article that Sir Alfred Stephen be ap-
pointed Governor of N.S.W. in succession to
Baron Oarington. Why, certainly—and if we
have Judge Windeyer as Lieutenant-Governor
the thing will be complete. Edmund Yates pro-
poses that Postmaster-General Raikes be ap-
pointed to Government House, Sydney, arid as
Raikes is obviously a dunderhead who is being
taught his business by Henniker Heaton, Alfred’s
brother-in-law, and as there cannot possibly be
room in England now for both Raikes and Heaton
it is plain that one of the pair should come to
Sydney as Governor,
A number of Sydney folks went out the
other day to inspect the Bonnyrigg pure-bred poul-
try farm, a speculation for which an egg-eating
community has to thank Mr, Walter Hope. The
returns for last year show a profit of £975, and
this year’, so far, the profit! have increased 20 per
cent., a circumstance which points to a greatly
augmented return for the entire year. Mr.
Hope, during his five years’ Australian career, has
been one of the pluckiest and most energetic
of men, and by his exertions and example
a tremendous fillip has been given to poultry-
breeding. It is wonderful that people will sink
their money in gold-mining when it might so
much more advantageously meander through
chickens’ gizzards.


STAMPS FOR COLLECTIONS.
150 choice Foreign, all different, including Haiti, Heligoland, Bulgaria, Bolivar, St. Lucia,
Panama,'etc., post free, ss. 2d.; 50 different Australian, Fiji, Samoa arid Tonga, ss. 2d., post free.
Price List of Stamps, Albums, etc., gratis. High prices paid for old Australian Stamps (1850 to 1800
issues), or old collections of any kind.
D. A. VUSTDIIW <sc CO., lorolgn Stamp null Coin Ucpol,
11 Victoria Ahcauk, Ei.izauktu Stkekt, SYDNEY; and at HAMBURG.
Yuu really ought to th ink Wolfe’s Schnapps.
Use Batho’s Baking' Powder.
Hope for the Deaf.
Nicholson’s Improved Patented Artificial
Ear Drums. The only sure, easy, and unseen
device used to permanently restore hearing and
to cure noises in the head. Recommended by
scientific men of Europe and America. Write
for free illustrated descriptive book to J. H.
Nicholson, 17i» William-street, Melbourne.
“Egerton of Ours.”*
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
“ Comb your cats, my good man; comb
T, our cats, and take your time—there is no
hurry. ’*
Scourger Muggins sullenly drew the tails of his
eat through the fingers of his left hand in obedi-
ence to the commands. The words had been
uttered softly, almost politely, but he knew that
if he disobeyed them he would be temporarily de-
posed from his position as official flagellator to
Probation Gang No. 17 as a preliminary to being
himself triced up to the triangles. Scourger
Muggins feared not God or devil, and but one or
two men. One of the men was Superintendent
Argus—a creature beneath whose effeminate
features and slight-built frame were hidden a will
as inflexible as Bruno’s and a spirit as cruel as
that of Torquemada.
No mere tyro in the art of flaying his brother
alive was Scourger Muggins. He was an adept—
a past-master. He could use the cat with either
hand with equal facility; he could “cross the
cuts ” with such nicety as to define small rect-
angles on the flesh with almost mathematical
exactitude; he could do as much execution from
his wrist as most other gang-scourgers did by the
exertion of their whole muscular strength; he
could detach with each tail of whipcord a narrow
strip of skin. Indeed, when he felt in a particu-
larly happy mood —such as, for instance, when he
had enjoyed by grace of the “ Super ” three ounces
of rum or an extra fig of negrohead—he could com-
pass with his left hand that most brilliant of all
flogging feats—the marking of the back with three
rows of pendant strips of akin, with, one drop of
blood, no more, tipping each point of cuticle, like
a glowing ruby on a piece of velvet. A proficient
in his profession undoubtedly was Scourger
Muggins.
His very expertness made it, however, the more
surprising that Superintendent Argus should have
had occasion to caution him to “ comb his oats
that is, to separate the tails so that each should
cause a separate welt. Only a novice would think
of letting the cats cling together. Only a novice
—or a flogger who was not anxious that the man
under punishment should suffer very much.
As Muggins wasn’t a novice it must have been
the other consideration that had influenced him.
So at least concluded Super. Argus. So may we
conclude Argus saw that the scourger had allowed
his cats to clog at the very first blow and was
hurrying over the task, and had admonished him
accordingly. As a matter of fact, Scourger Mug-
gins didn’t relish the job which had fallen to his
hands that glorious December morning. In a
dull, insensate fashion Muggins confessed to him-
self that he was squeamish. Why ? Because it
was a gentleman’s back that he had to score.
Muggins, not being a man who had volunteered,
enrolled himself on the staff of the penal estab-
lishment of V.D.L., having indeed gone on to Her
Most Gracious Majesty’s pay-sheets purely out of
regard for his own epidermis, had a feeling that it
was a monstrous shame to flog such a man as the
one whose white skin, glistening in the early sun-
light, waited Super. Argus’s pleasure and the
scourger’s cat-o’-nine-tails. So he would have
made the punishment as light as possible. He let
the tails knot into three points instead of nine,
and, bearing in mind that the longer, the interval
between the cuts the more acute the agony, he
would have rapidly showered his blows on the firm
flesh had not the Super, seen through his little
game and stopped it.
* * #
It; was the back of “Lifer” Dale, other-
wise Egerton, formerly Captain in Her Majesty’s
Gnety-Oneth Regiment of Foot, on which
Scourger Muggins was ordered to impress the out-
ward and visible signs of the inward and spiritual
grace which it was the object of H.M.’s Penal
System to infuse into the convict heart. Dale or
Egerton had been assigned on arrival from
“ home ” under sentence of life-transportation for
murder to Mr. Grahame, aCampbelltown squatter
and by one of those curious coincidences which
would make us believe that the Fates have rather
a pretty fancy for humour, had been sent with a
message to his master, Grahame, one evening
when the latter was dining at the officers’ mess of
the Onety-Oneth that regiment having just
landed in Hobart Town. Circumstances there-
upon had occurred which went to confirm Dale
alias Egerton’s statement that he was innocent of
the crime for which he was transported—circum-
stances, moreover, which led to Mr. Grahame fall-
ing foul of the Chief Justice of the colony and to
his telling his Honor, in so many words, “ to go to
the devil.” That unfortunate remark had led, by
a sequence of events, to Dale’s attendance at the
triangles. It is necessary to recount them.
# # . *
The morning following the Onety-Oneth’s
Guest Dinner, every officer of the regiment that
could be spared from duty arranged to call on
their former comrade, Dale, or as they knew him,
Egerton. Still a convict as he was, none 'of them
longer doubted his innocence, and they all thought
his further detention under penal conditions was a
matter of a few hours only. They had met after
early parade, and had rejoiced to find their “ old
man,” as they irreverently though affectionately
styled their Colonel, was as determined as them-
selves in the resolve that, if the Onety-Oneth
could do anything, the sun should not set on
Egerton as other than a free man. But they
didn’t know the System.
Some of them had “got the route” for country
stations, and their detachments were to march
tha,t afternoon. So, if they were to visit Egerton
they had no time to lose. Accordingly they left
Barrack Square, Hobart, in the early forenoon on
their errand of good comradeship.
# # #
The fashionable boarding-house which ac-
commodated the Grahames was situated at the
corner of Macquarie and Argyle streets. As the
group of officers, eleven or twelve in number, turned
from Murray-street into the former thoroughfare,
they came against another and smaller group pro-
ceeding up Macquarie-street. Between two con-
stables walked aeon vict dressed in whiteduck, while
a gentleman followed at a couple of paces distance.
The police-officers, of the usual type of “ bond”-
constables, had evidently a congenial task. As
they marched they took it in turns to hurry their
prisoner.
“ Now, you fellow, Dale,” cried the first black-
guard, “ hurry ’long. The Com’troller ain’t
a-goin’ ter wait yer couven’ence. ”
“ If yer won't want ter get th’ cells fur delayin’
of er hossifer yer’d better stir them ’ere pins of
your’n,” echoed blackguard No. 2—one Hewitt.
The prisoner escorted by these fellows said no-
thing, but compressed his lips the more firmly,
and kept his eyes on the ground. He ran against
someone at the turning.
“ Where’r yer goth’, stupid ? Wan ter run over
th’ sodger hossifer?” exclaimed Constable Hewitt.
Dale looked up—and into the face of Vane,
senior Captain of the Onety’s.
“ Egerton, dear old man,” cried Vane, “ what
does this mean ? Are you, going up to be released
or what? All qur fellows, were just coming to
see you. ” All this in a bredth. The military men
crowded round the smaller group.
It was Mr. Grahame who* replied to Captain
Vane, “ Thank God, gentlemen I have rhet you !
Look here at poor Dale poor Egerton, I in' an.
You remember my hasty words last night to the
Chief Justice? Well, half-an-hour ago, I got a
note from the Clerk of the Council stating that
my name had been erased from the Commission
of the Peace, and also one from the Comptroller-
General of Convicts withdrawing my permit to
hold assigned labour, and ordering the instant re-
turn of all su i’i labour to the nearest hiring depot.
Then these 1 allows, these constables, came for
Dale. For the insult to myself I don’t care, but
just think what a fresh assignment mav mean to
Dale ! They may make him suffer for my hasty
words last night!”
“ Surely not,” said Lieutenant Jones, “ they
must intend to release him at once !”
The convict-constables had perforce paused at
the appearance of the military officers. They
laughed now at the subaltern’s innocent words,
and made a brutal commentary thereon by push-
ing their prisoner forward.
“ Yer’d better get ’long, Dale, or we’ll hev to
hev yer up ’fore th’ Super fur refusin’ ter obey yer
official superi-er. An’ yer know wot that means.”
This from Hewitt. Dale did know, it meat 25
at least, so he moved on.
“ These men must carry out their instructions,!’
said Grahame. “I am going straight to His
Excellency to ask his interference. lie must in-
terfere. ”
“Bear up, Egerton, old man,” exclaimed im-
pulsive Lieutenant Jones, “the Colonel hasalready
gone to see Sir Eardley about you.” As Jones
spoke, he held out his hand to the convict. Dale
took it mechanically.
♦ “ Commun’cashun with prisoners ain’t allowed. ”
A NEW TEMPE RA NCE LECTURER-TWO ASPECTS OF HIM.
said blackguard No. 2. “Now thet ycr’ve crossed
palms I’ll hev to search yor.”
“What do you mean, fellow,” angrily asked
Jones.
“I’ll show yer wot I mean,” replied Hewitt.
“ Yer might hev giv’n him er knife, or munny, or
er smoke, don’ yer see ? I don’ say es yer did.
But I’ve got ter search him to make sure.”
And, standing so, in the principal street of
Hobart Town, in the company of his old-time
brot.hers-in-arms, and under the gaze of half-a-
dozen semi-drunken “ T.-of-L.” men, and two
“free” butcher-boys who had been attracted to
the spot, Dale, otherwise Egerton, formerly “ an
officer and a gentleman, ” was about to be searched
by a convict-constable. In point of infamy, Dale
felt there could be but two experiences of a viler
order —those associated with the lash and the
gallows.
Hewitt began his search. He did not complete
it.
The officers passed on. Conscious of their own
impotency to aid him, they were anxious to save
the prisoner the humiliation of their further
presence. They had moved but a few paces when
the sound of a crash on the pavement compelled
them to look back. Dale, otherwise Egerton, had
dashed Convict-Constable Hewitt to the stones.
“In the Queen’s name, gents, I call on yer ter
help me ter ’rest this man !” cried the other con-
stable to the officers, as h® whipped out a pair of
handcuffs from his waistband.
“There is no need for that,” said Lifer Dale,
who had cooled after his mad action, “here you
are,” and he held out his hands.
The “ bracelets ” snapped on his wrists.
Notwithstanding, the Comptroller-General re-
Bated to His Excellency, and Hu Excellency to
owning-street, that certain officers of theOnety-
Oneth had refused to assist in the capture of a
refractory convict when called upon to do so “in the
Queen’s name.”
* * *
For “an aggravated assault on a police-
constable while engaged in the performance of his
duty,” Dale, otherwise Egerton, was sentenced to
twelve months’ servitude in the Probation Gang
stationed at Ross.
“ The Probation Gang ” was the latest invention
of the English people; through their authorities,
for the reform of transports, and more than any
other device had it been successful in the multipli-
cation of vice and the contamination of the younger
and less guilty convicts. The antecedent Penal
System had manufactured a couple of hells worse
than any shadowed forth by the vague imagina-
tion of a Milton, or created by the m definite
conceptions of a Dante. My Lord Stanley’s
“ Probation ” Plan established some thirty or
forty Infernos on a smaller scale. ' ver the dormi-
tory ward of each gang might have been inscribed
with perfect truth, two inscriptions one the
trite
“ Leave hope behind all ye who enter here.”
The other, thus:
BRANCH HELL.
Established by Authority, 1842.
N.B.—All the Advantages of the Larger Establishments.
Pre-eminent among these institutions was the
Ross station. In a certain year —that of our story
—before 85 per cent, of the names of the convicts
stationed there was placed on the penal records, a
mark indicative of the fact that they were not
men, but beasts.
# * *
The influence of Colonel Villiers and of
tbe other officers of the Onety-One f h, great though
it would have been under ordinary circumstances,
Was powerless to avert from Dale the consequences
of his deed. The last Governor, noble-hearted Sir
John Franklin, had come into collision with the
“local authorities, ’’ and had been consequently
recalled. The present Governor had taken a dif-
ferent course. He was not going to fight with a
Montagu or quarrel with a Chief Justice, if he
knew it— esp’ecia'ly over a “lifer.”
Wh°n, therefore, Colonel Villiers sought his
Excellency’s intervention on behalf of Dale, he
found that his representations were listened to
courteously, but were shelved.
“ You are not yet acquainted. Colonel,” said his
Excellency, “ with the necessity for maintaining
rigorous discipline over the convict class. Once
weaken that, as you would do if yon failed to
enforce respect among the convicts for the authority
of even the humblest officer of the law, and you
subvert the System,”
“ I grant that, your Excellency,” responded the
Colonel, ‘‘but look at the ter ihle position of this
man. Innocent- of the crime for which he was
transported
“That has yet to be proved,” interrupted the
Governor.
“ -Sir, I pledge you my word that it was as
Egerton states. That the Judge in England, in
summing up on iiis case, declared that if he, the
prisoner, did not commit the murder, the actual
criminal Would prove to ba the man win had
stolen the ring from the murdered man’s body.
And, sir, you know the ring was found on the
dead body of another officer of the regiment here
in Hobart Town.”
“ I know a ring was so found,” replied his Ex-
cellency. “Whether it was the particular ring
concerned in the Vincent murder case I cannot
say.'* _
“I give you my word, sir, that I believe it is
the ring.”
“I mean nioffence, Colonel, when I say that I
should require other evidence to convince me of
Dale’s or Egerton’s innocence,” was Sir Eardley’s
response.
Years afterwards Colonel Villiers performed, on
Crimean heights, a deed of heroism that won for
him the Victoria Cross. But, as he handled the
bit of metal, he knew in his heart that the bravest
act of his life was one which he had done in the
long, low, drawing-room of the house in the Hobart
Town Domain —which was to calmly draw on his
gloves, instead of dashing them into his Excel-
lency’s face. Easier far was it to rush across the
bloody acre, swept by Russian rifle-balls, and
rescue wounded Private Links, of the Buffs, than
to remember under the sting of his Excellency’s
retort, that he was not simply Villiers—but
Vill era, Colonel-Commanding in Van Diemen’s
Land, of whom responsibility, example, duty were
expected.
* # #
Of course, all the convict’s friends in the
regiment, together with Grahame, memorialised
the powers that were. They professed themselves
the most obedient servants of every Jack-in-offiee;
decla-ed, times without number, that “ they had
the honour to be ” this, that and the other; and
humbly prayed as in duty bound a half-score of
times to. hs many official deities. But they did
something more than memorialise and prostrate
themselves before the System and its administra-
tors. They made a “ pool ” and paid the expenses
“home” and back of Senior-Captain Vane, to
whom Colonel Villiers granted eighteen months’
leave of absence on “ urgent private business.” In
the Captain’s valise went a huge bundle of notari-
ally-prepared papers relating to the ease of Da'e,
otherwise Egerton. Also a letter addressed to
“His Grace, E.M., the Duke of Wellington,
K.C.,” by Colonel Villiers.
It may have been the latter document which
explains the presence of the following note in the
archives of the Colonial Office in Downing-street:
Apsley House Aug. 15, 184—.
F.M. the Duke of Wellington presents his compliments
to Mr. Gladstone and would be obliged by the matter of
the release of Convict Henry Dale Egerton being expedited.
It may also explain the insertion of two notices
in the London Gazette a fortnight later, one can-
celling the proclamation of Egerton’s dismissal
seven years earlier, and the othe- announcing that
Her Majesty had seen fit to grant Henry Dale
Egerton anew commission in lieu of one “ can-
celled in error.”
It may have been this letter to the o’d Duke,
we say, which was responsible for these things.
Or it may have been the visit of a lady of high
birth and station to his Grace and to the proof she
comumnioa'ed to him, in the strictest confidence,
that Egerton could not have committed the mur-
der for which he was transported, because he was
with her at the hour the crime was perpetrated.
# # #
It was in February that Captain Vane
packed his valise. He again unpacked it in
Hobart Town on the following Christmas Eve —just
in time to dress for mess. No need to ask his news.
His buoyant step and gay smile told the success
of his mission. Cheer upon cheer rolled through
the room and out upon Barrack Square as he re-
lated how he had brought out under cover of the
Governor, Egerton’s free pardon, and under cover
to the Colonel, Egerton’s ne w commission.
When Vane had finished his narrative, the
Colonel rose. “ Egerton, once more of Ours,” he
shouted, “and God bless him!” “Egerton of
Ours ” went round the big room. There was a
suspicion of throatiness in many voices, and more
than one who drank the toast swallowed a lump in
addition to his wine. The mess-sergeant drew his
cuff across his eyes.
* # *
Early on the morning of the 28th Decem-
ber, Page’s coach dropped Captain Vane and
Surgeon Murchison, who had been deputed by
Colonel Villiers to bear the good tidings to Eger-
ton, otherwise Dale, in the main street of Ross,
Tasmania.
“ Tacre’s the barracks, gentlemen,” said the
innkeeper in response to an enquiry from Villiers,
“ you’ll find the Super, there now. I hear he’s
going to flog Gentleman Dale this morning.”
“Whom did you say?” were the words which
burst from the two officers.
“ The prisoner they call Gentleman Dale. They
say, rou know, he’s ”
Before he could finish his sentence the officers
had started to run.
Through the clear, frosty air there came the
whish, whish —cr-k—cr-k of the lash, and the call
of the chief constable as he counted the blows.
One- two —three.
“ Damnation ! ” said Vane.
“ My Cod ! ” cried Murchison.
Then they heard Superintendent Ai-gus’s
caution to Scourger Muggins, to “comb his cats.”
Three —four—ti ve.
The officers rushed into the yard. The soldiers
on duty at the gate recognised them and saluted,
but they failed to acknowledge.
Seven eight—nine.
“ S-op!” cried Captabi Vane, and Scourger
Muggins’ arm was grasped as it rose fer the tenth
blow.
“ Who are you, sir?” demanded the Superin-
tendent.
“Captain Vane, of the f'nety-Oneth. I came
to tell you that Egerton’s free pardon lias been
granted- is even now in Boss, for it came by the
mail-coach which brought us.”
Argus replied : “ I arn superintendent. I know
no Egerton. If yon refer to this man Dale I have
to say no pardon for him has been received. In
any case no antecedent pardon can relieve the
prisoner from the punishment I have ordered.”
“ What is his offence?” asked Vane.
“ I deny your right to interrogate,” said Argus.
“But I will tell you. He would not go into the
dormitory last night—said lie preferred to wait
till the next world to go into hell.” r J hen he con
tinned :
“Scou-ger, proceed.”
Dr. Murchison now spoke. “I am Senior Sur-
geon of the Regiment and I order this flogging to
be stopped, Scourger, cast him off.”
Muggins obeyed.
Argus said, “ I will report this, sir. Dale, put
on your shirt, and go to the dormitory. You are
my.prisoner still.”
Vane,” said Dale, otherwise Egerton, “ did I
hear aright ? Have they granted me a free
pardon?”
“ Yes, old man,” replied the Senior Captain.
“Thank God for that!” exclaimed Dale, “I
can die free!”
Before they could stop him he had seized a
musket from a soldier of the guard, and the ring-
ing of a shot told how Lifer Dale, otherwise
Egerton, No. 37,333 per Rodney, had gained free-
dom without waiting for his pardon. He could
not survive the ignominy of the lash.
* * *
They welcomed him hack to the Onety-
Oneth with due honour. But the symbols of
honour were reversed arms and crape-armlets, and
colours tasselled with black, and the sob of fifes,
and the roll of muffled drums, and echoing vollies
by the side of the grave dug in the shadow of
Governor Collins’ monument. They placed on his
breast two sheets of parchment. To the larger
was attached the Great Seal of England. It was
his absolute pardon. The other was his last lost
commission. Price Wanting.
Write for plans £10 Building sites, Perth,
Western Australia. Intercolonial Investment
Company, Limited, 96 Bathurst-street, Sydney.
Chaulkmont and. Co., high art photographers,
Royal Arcade, altogether owe their measure of
success to the fact that the merits'of their photo-
graphy arc always of a high order.
Dm dies’ Silver Watches, 35s. Baums & Co., King-street
Arcade.
v See Tuii Bulletin, June 14th, 1S90: “ How ‘Lifer’
Dale Attended (he Guest Dinner.”


x>x3xrcs-M:A3xr j s
“ELECTRIC” SOAP
IS THE
Greatest Labour Saver
OF THE AGE.
The wash clone in half the time, and
better, by its use.
Millar Bros , finding tho Chow played out
as a reefer, have engaged a number of white minors
for their Northern Territory claims.
Wolfe’s Schnapps—popularity increases yearly.
BUGGIES, BUCKBOAEDS,
—-AM)
VICTORIAS,
At MANUFACTURERS' PRICES,
Send for Catalogues and Prices to
THE T. B. WHEELER CO.,
2G5 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
Personal Items.
Victoria of Teck will be Victoria 11.
The Prince of Wales’ eldest son is joining
the ranks of the baldheads.
The uukindest cut we have seen in print:
“Messrs. Ardill and Joe Bragg in explanation.”
Of tho “representative” defendants in the
Premier Building Association case, little Miraxns
best keeps up his pecker.
Labouchere, speaking of Tennyson’s suc-
cessor as Laureate, says—“ The Court poet should
go the way of the Court buffoon.”
A pretty quarrel —concerning a well-adver-
tised politician and the price of a Turkish bath—
is to be venti ated in the law courts.
Here, an African missionary, is in Mel-
bourne, walking into Stanley; but why not in
London, where he is cock of the walk ?
Rev. Dr. Bevan, lecturing in Melbourne,
praises Rabelais highly. Not long ago he hinted
that there were g od points even in Zola.
The World nominates Ha ikes as the new
Governor of N.S.W. Yates evidently conspires
with Henniker Heaton to deport the latter’s
enemies.
Talking of gubernatorial reminiscences, did
you ever hear that yarn about a horsewhip being
broken, by a gardener, over a Governor’s shoulders,
about a woman ?
George Gordon M’Crae, the Melbourne
poet, has obtained fit advancement in the Patent
Office, but verse is its own reward (and there
couldn’t be verse).
Parkes has again said: “You know, my
friends, I’m not an Orangeman.” Surely it
must be true. No good Orangeman would have
his leg mended by a suigeon named O’Connor.
Whyte, a veteran officer of Pentridge
Stockade, lias just issued a volume of Reminis-
cences, covering thirty years, with fresh particu-
lars about Ned Nelly, Moonlight, and all the cri-
minal celebrities.
Ex-Minister Dow’s illness chiefly arises
from the fat d at nosp'iere of the court in which
the charges agar net him are being tried. Panton,
P.M., won’t allow any of the defendants out of
his sight for a single second.
Ignatius Singer, who started the demo-
cratic movement in Adelaide, and edited Our
Commonwealth, lias returned to Australia on a
flying visit. It was JSiuger who had the chief
hand in inducing George to visit Australia.
Chief Justice Way, of S.A.. has re-
peatedly refused knighthood, considering that he
is entitled to higher honours. Successive Gover-
nors have, however, never managed to work the
oracle for him. Very likely they never tried.
G. D. Carter accused Premier Gillies of
blushing in Parliament last week. How ever can
you tell when Duncan b ushes with those rosy
gills? He must blush white, like the nigger whose
favourite oath was—“ May de debbil dam me
white.”
Our excellent friend Bishop Barry writes
to deny a rumour that he had refused the
Bishopric of St. Albans. “ Then I won’t marry
you, my pretty maid,” &o. But Barry’s worst jar
was being beaten by the commonplace Bradley,
as successor to Dean Stanley, at Westminster
Abbey.
Dr. Adler, the late chief of the Jews,
claimed to be descended straight from Aaron,
Moses’ brother. He was buried in the shroud
which he had worn regularly throughout three
penitential days of the year. Under his head, in
the coffin, was a bag of sacred earth, brought from
the Jordau.
An Adelaide foot-constable has come in for
£85,000 through the death of his father. He
seriously thinks about sending in bis resignation
but one must not be too certain he will do so. A
Northern bank-manager who lias from £160,000 to
£240,000 a year out of mines, sticks to his old bank
appointment at £lOOO a year.
Bishop Thornton, of Ballarat, on the
Collins-street block last week, quite made people
say “Here’s Barry!” They do grow so much
alike under the same cushiony influence. They
look as if they were bumped all day and all night
with velvet sofa-pads. Frank Thornton, mind
you, takes off the poor curate with impunity.
Joe Thompson’s latest photos, show quite
the military parient so well-known on the French
stage, from Frou Frou onwards, with his white
hair and black moustache, indispensable in that
kind of thing. His daughter, Miss Leah Thomp-
son, pushes forward with her musical studies.
When she was almost a baby Joe christened his
filly, My Leah, after her.
Henry Frencham, an old fellow living at
Richmond (Melb.), is petitioning the Victorian
Government to reward his services in discovering
the Bendigo goldfields. Frencham comes late in
the day with his claim. There are now very many
hundreds or thousands of holders of worthless
scrip in the colony, who devoutly wish that gold
had never been discovered at all.
Olive Schreiner is a fragile little woman
with a fine, mobile face and thoughtful eyes. The
story that made her famous was commenced while
she was yet in her teens and then long laid aside.
Her father died while she was an infant and her
mother is now a nun in au R.C. convent near Cape
Town. Olive was on the verge of womanhood
when she first set eyes on a town.
How French novelists work ! Tho present
Alexandre Dumas lately stated that he wrote his
“Affaire Olemenceau,” first a novel, then a play,
seventeen times over. Haggard wouldn’t have
got far at that rate. Balzac hammered every
word on the anvil. Zola, Cherbuliez, Ohnet are
all most painstaking. “ Easy writing makes d
hard reading.” Robert Louis Stevenson wrote
“Treasure Island” twelve times over.
Percy Fendall, the novelist, whose shilling
shocker, “The Celebrated Janet Homfrey,” has
brought him fame, in 1870 at the age of twenty
came to Australia on board the True Briton, and
then, assisted by Kyrle Bellew, also a passenger,
brought out a weekly ship’s paper, his first attempt
at journalistic labour. On his return, through the
failure of a firm of solicitors, he lost his fortune
and took to journalism as a profession.
The King of Annam has 100 women in
his harem —taken principally from among the
daughters of public employes. Thirty act as
sentinels to his private apartments, five act as
body-servants, and dress, wash, and perfume him,
and, what is more curious, sit at table with His
Majesty, who has three meals a day, consisting
each of fifty dishes, prepared by fifty different
cooks. No men are allowed to enter his presence.
The story goes that when Henry George
was in Sydney, J. P. T. Caulfield asked the secre-
tary of a certain b'g racing club to send the Single-
Tax prophet a complimentary ticket. The secre-
tary said he had never seen or heard of Henry
George didn’t know who he was. Caulfield
replied that George was a man of world-wide
fame, a celebrated economist and writer. The
racing-man, still puzzled to know how a man
named Henry George could be reckoned dis-
tinguished, enqui ed if he was related to Major
George, of the New Zealand Stud Co. Caulfield
said he didn’t know. “ His George any horses?”
“ Ves,”said the unblushing Boy Politician, “he
owns two very fast-trotters. Progress and Poverty.”
“ Ad right, here’s a ticket for him,” said the
secretary.
The Hun. Stuart Erskine and Mr. Herbert
Vivian, of Hingland, intend to publish what they
are pleased to call an organ shortly. For the
Whirlwind they demand, per prospectus, Os.
and Od. annually in advance, and “for a lump
sum of £5 will forward the paper free for life.”
During the paper’s life we presume, and as that
wdl probably extend at least over three weeks, it
will be seen that these aristocratic innocents offer
the public great advantages, in their prospectus
HE MADE ’EM LAY.
OLD UN: “THE FOWLS THAT COME INTO MY PLACE AND DON’T LAY,
I MAKE ’EM LAY.”
FRIEND: “’OW, BILL?”
OLD UN: “I ’IT ’EM ON THE ’EAD WITH A STICK.”
they also state that —“ Our style will be breezy
and terse, our audacity unprecedented. No abuse
will be too high or mighty to escape our censure.
All great men will be either interviewed or lam-
pooned by members of our staff. Above, all things
we mean to be eccentric, original, and indiscreet.
We shall uphold the rights and liberties of mon-
archy and the multitude against the unbridled
usurpations of an unscrupulous oligarchy, and we
shall demand real representation for the people by
frequent Parliaments, proportional representation,
and the Referendum.”
An experienced British chiropodist warns
men against falling in love with a woman who
owns a pretty foot. The lady whose lovely ex-
tremity reduces the male of her species to a state
of gibbering admiration, and causes him to degrade
himself on all fours and endow her with ah his
worldly property, has generally an uncertain tem-
per and a cold, unfeeling soul. It is the girl with
the great, flat, splodgy hoof who makes home
happy and contented and clings to a fellow through
good and evil fortune ; and when the ardent youth
of the period finds that the lady of his choice is
endowed with an elephantine beetle-crusher, and
he can see her approaching boots round the corner
ten minutes before the rest of her heaves in sight,
he can safely place his honour—if he has any—
and his earthly possessions—provided he isn’t
living on a precarious allowance from his aunt —in
her keeping. “A female thief,” adds the same
observer, “has almost always a pretty foot.”
Perhaps so, but still there is an occasional excep-
tion. For instance, the woman with a huge bonnet
and a voice like someone scraping rust off a grid-
iron who aggressively rushed this office yesterday
and demanded what she called “ a mite ” to build
a church in some place where there never had been
any inhabitants, and who pranced up and down
the passage like an insane giraffe when she didn’t
get it, was pretty nearly all feet together, and she
couldn’t see her own heels without losing her
centre of gravity. And if she wasn’t some kind of
a “female thief ” then we have entirely misunder-
stood the meaning of the word.
POLITICAL POINTS
Judging from the recent Federation de-
bate, S.A. politicians positively loatbe Parkes.
Significantly enough, it was Mr. Pigott
who introduced the riot-raising Party Processions
Act into the N.S.W. Legislative Council.
“Sammy” Tmnkiuson, a comical little
S. A. legislator, proposed, the other day, to abolish
Trades’ Unions and resume immigration !!
Griffith says the present Queensland
Government lias been in office too long. What
Sam means is that he has been out of office too
long.
At time of writing the Victorian Grown
was alleged to be developing very decided symp-
toms of going crooked in the Building Society
matter.
Francis Abigail, after floating an ochre
company in London, has two coal-mines in hand.
This is what is now called taking a trip to Lngland
for the benefit of your ’ealth.
The Bulletin lays two to one that its re-
peated prophecy of a Coalition Ministry in S.A.
will come true. At present everything points to
an early coalition between Ministry and Opposi-
tion.
The Sydney officials have the front to ask
the country newspapers to insert Government
notices gratuitously “for public information.”
The Bega Gazette calls them “ sponging beg-
gars.”
Let the fight between Hurley and Norton
for the vacant Lithgow seat be a fair one. Any
third candidate must be regarded as simply
standing to split the voting in the interests of the
Foreign-traders.
The cable notifies a great council of car-
dinals and bishopis called by Leo XIII. for 1891.
Question : Temporary removal from Rome. This
will be the most important council since 1869, on
the verge of the Franco-German War.
Randolph Churchill’s return to a place in
the Salisbury Ministry has been instigated by his
pretty and ambitious little American wife. Ran-
dolph was supposed to be settling down into a
mere racing lord, and not a very lucky one at
that.
Ebenezer Ward, who, in his time, has
been an actor and a journalist, and Chairman of
Committees of tho S.A. Parliament, is now acting
as a special reporter for S.A. Register. “ Ebby ”
lost his seat and a salary of £4OO at last general
election.
Port Pirie (S.A.) has prospered wonder-
fully by the Barrier trade. In 1880 the imports
were £43,730; in 1888, £231,388. In 1886 exports
were £108,140 ; in 1889, £973,468. And yet
Parkes wants to say Sydney can take the Barrier
trade from S.A. !
Caprivi, when head of the Admiralty,
confirmed a decision by the overseer of Kiel Navy
Yard, dismissing four workmen, because they
voted for a Socialist candidate. Caprivi said that
many navy men and soldiers were about the
docks, and their minds must not be poisoned by
Socialism.
The Prince of Wales interceded with the
Home Secretary on behalf of the postmen and
policemen who were dismissed for wanting more
than 21s. a week wages. The Prince said, “ Haw,
bettor keep these poor devils quiet, don’t you
think?” Royal intercessions are very pathetic
and touching, if you look well into them.
The Adelaide papers have been at it again.
The little Advertiser came out on Saturday with
the news of Howe’s resignation, and the ponderous
Register had nothing until Monday, but the issue
for that day gave the blackguard over the way
“ beans ” and accused him of being the “ Guv’ment
horgin,” and generally jumped around in a way
undignified for a paper fifty years old.
About the best speech on Federation in
S.A. Parliament was that of Dr. Cockburn.
About two other speeches were worth reading—
those of Kingston and Playford—but there is too
much blind-dog loyalty about all of them to be of
much use to the National cause. Socialist Cock-
burn is fast turning—solely through the necessities
of “office’’—into a Tory of the first water.
The London police-strike was defeated
through the men’s want of unanimity. The elder
men sided with the authorities when the'pinch
came. It was-a struggle between the old order
which does as it is told, and is nearing its pension-
time, and the new, which regards itself as a human
being, not merely as a screw in a machine. The
old must perish and the new survive—in the end.
The Sunday Liberation League, Mel-
bourne, for opening the Public Library, &c., goes
forward in a businesslike style. The speakers at
a big meeting in the Town Hall are Judge
Williams, Rev. Prior Butler, Rev. Dr. Strong,
Professors Jenks and Tucker, Messrs. A. Suther-
land, Ct. D. Carter, M.L.A., Trenwith and others.
Chief Justice Higinbotham, of course, sympathises.
London Punch, under Burnand, is almost
invariably on the side of freedom. One Zotoff, a
Russian patriot, was amid a party massacred in
Siberia a few months ago, but left behind him a
letter, which became public, saying that they laid
down their lives willingly for freedom’s cause.
Sambourne, in Punch, bases a masterly and
trenchant cartoon on this, showing himself the
true successor of Tenniel.
The N.S.W. Railway Commissioners have
(says the S.M. Herald), “to encourage the tan-
nery industry,” arranged for the carriage of
colonial manufactured leather, when sent from
country stations, to be charged for at about half-
rates. This, of course, is not Protection ; but to
tan-yard proprietors the boon will smell as sweet
under any other name. Someone is evidently
“riding for a soft fall” in the bogus Preetrade
colony.
The theory that a M.P. ’s seat, when vacated
through insolvency, should not be contested if tho
insolvent offers himself for re-election is essen-
tially bad. Politics can take no account of the
feelings of individuals, and ex-Premier Dibbs’
alleged sympathy for the busted is simply thrown
away. When Premier Parkes was out of office he
bad no tenderness for Ins enemies. Even when he
sat in a minority of one he smote them hip and
thigh, and politically howled, bit, scratched,
kicked, and cursed until he got back to office.
Messrs. Curley, Garrard and Haynes—
three alleged democrats—voted against W. H.
Traill’s abolitv n-of - plural - voting Bill in the
N.S.W. Assembly. That is the curse of the men-
not-measures system; party-voting looks uncom-
monly like political dishonesty. The Parkes
Government professes to sympathise with the
one-man-one-vote principle, but it obviously does
not wish next election contested on such a basis -
and the public have not forgotten that the Foreign-
trade and Liberal Association refused to make the
principle a plank in its platform.
The Tories are scoffing because Grand Old
Man Gladstone acknowledged, in reply to a letter
from a Mr. Healy, late of Melbourne, that he had
misjudged the Chinese question in Australia.
The Grand Old Man post-carded Healy—“ There
is much truth in what you say, and I will try and
set the matter right.” To the Tory mind there is
something degradingly comic about a “represen-
tative person ” having" the grit to confess that he
is not infallible on a post-card, or, for the matter
of that, owning up to a mistake anyhow. As for
setting any mortal thing right —well, it’s dcad
against the Conservative policy.
Tlie |Orangemen of Australia have this
year put on a spurt. At the Sydney celebration
Parson Jones was the most stylish orator ; an
eloquent flight of his was where he said that “one
of the most important landmarks of the world was
the Boyne obelisk, 150 feet high and towering
towards Heaven.” Parson Jones conveniently
overlooked the fact that the Bathurst-street stink-
j iot also towers towards Heaven. The reason of the
present revival is that the Orange bosses, perceiving
the order to be grievously riven on genuine political
questions, are trying to whip up their crowd once
more into block-voting. Left to themselves the
Australian people would never .fight about re-
ligion, and would put a poll-tax on aggressive
clergymen just as cheerfully as on Chinamen. The
attempt to abrogate the law against party-pro-
cessions in N.S.W. was a purely Orange move, and
is part of a general conspiracy among the order to
reinaugurate’the era of street-fighting and reli-
gious tests. In Brisbane the worshippers of King
William were allowed last week to parade the
streets with regalia and a band, but they were
‘ ‘ accompanied by the police in strong force. ” The
general public don’t think much of any man or set
of men who are only allowed out when watched
by the police. Let the Orange body chew over this
original aphorism.
AN IDYLL OF THE KING.
The King is dead, long live the King !
So runs the song which Tories sing,
But coming years must wisdom bring
The sages say;
Old Loyalty may shake his head
When in the book of Fate is read—
“ The King for evermore is dead
And passed away.”
Long live the King ! Not very long
Shall royal right maintain a wrong,
Nor pomp appal the pulsing throng
Whom monarchs dread.
Old Loyalty may shut his eyes
Against the teachings of the wise
Till startled by triumphant cries—
“ The King is dead ! ”
E.F.


o OpK4
l/‘ L ‘
\. 7 af e/>
Uoecd O/bhor. Cows / r 9 7
OU/-0/ %,s (o/rt-outy? y e
S/oh > ' 7 Co*>/=e?sa~
'PuSS/c. 7 97 f'/ 7 //
cfo coat e isery offer' Cere
//? Ojy //n e cTa € s /JJ%/ —■=
/cnoy Qfy f' 5
Atcfy t Iff go t$ /os
£e "/ cl C& /o £" roTe c7 ~£
Tern/? yat)e(t
T/ / "
fee ferer*
foRU. \
ak \ 1
M
af-Tt ?e
it?
\ /^j P
'Zjf-
"i
ď
A W£W POSTAGE ST a ft] P.
lu »iew of the Intended reductlo. g f po3t
betweeu Au.traha a„d lte Unjt . J P«WHf«
2id Mr D U ed Kingdom to
’ ’ f ' u u CoD, ' or . » , ootmaster General
approved of a design 10 , , o „, v * 045
of ibe value of 2jd, P *** Blaa, H
đ
d
f
r^ShfrA^
vm&.
The design itself
is that of a fcgnre standing on a section of Iha
globe nolding a banner with the motto w Ad-
ranee Australia ” ana looking one upon the
ocean, w here a large mail steamer is seen in the
distance. A pair of wings form the upper
corners of the.stamp and shields in the lower
corners bear the figures 2s, the word “ peace '
being in the lower border between the figure*
The word ** Booth W alas Posiagt * form*
the remainder of the border.
THAT DEPUTATION.
“Has you know, my friends, Hi ham not a Horangeman myself."


«N\
d
BABY-EAHMING— THE HEAL ASSASSIN.


Hereford's Acid Phosphate
MAKES AN INVIGORATING DRINK
with water and sugar only. Delicious.
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
Ladies’ Silver Watches, 355. Daiims & Co., King-street
Arcade.
For removing dandruff, Ayer's Hair Vigor has
no equal. It restores faded and gray hair to its
original color, stimulates the growth of the hair,
and gives it a beautiful, glossy, and silken appear-
ance*
The SYDNEY DEPOSIT BANK,
90-KING STREET 90
Established 1885.
Agencies in London and throughout Australia.
Overdrafts granted against Deposit of Deeds,
and all the usual banking business transacted.
The following are the Rates of Interest allowed
for Fixed Deposits :
3 Y ears
12 Months
6 Months
3 Months
9 g per cent.
So per cent.
7 '. per cent.
55 per cent.
5 per cent, allowed on daily balance ol current account
For the past Four (4) Years a Bonus of One pkk
Cent, has been paid m addition to the above rates.
This is the first and only Bank in the Colonies
which divides its protits.with its depositors.
Communications from the country will bo
promptly attended to.
T. S. RICHARDSON,
General Manager.
w.
H.
PALING
& COMPANY, LIMITED,
356 George Street, SYDNEY,
TTAVE Just Opened a Magnificent Lot of
Also of the wonderful Victor
I■ - f
Pianoa from the celebrated Makers, Steinway, Erard, Uehel, Fenrich, Lipp, Ronisch, Bluthner, Collard,and others
Pianos ei/t £45 and Batey Organs. No such Variety or Value elsewhere for Cash or Terms.
Society
It has been pretty well settled that Aus-
tralasia’s richest heiress is to be gathered into the
little net of a vice-regal official. “Government
House ” is a magic name which does the trick
every time.
* * *
Oh, yes, giveusßaikesasN.S.W. Governor
—Raikes, or Jaikes, out of the “ Silver King,” or
anybody without a title. How refreshing ! Only
a mister for Governor 1
* * #
Hon. Hoddle Doddle White, speaking on
the N.S.W. Divorce Bill sapiently said, “ What
position shall we be in in fifty years time? We
shall have a lot of people who will not know who
are their fathers.” Hoddle Doddle needn’t worry
himself over that. Quite a number of people are
in that predicament already.
# # *
The Age thinks that one of the recom-
mendations of execution by electricity is its suita-
bility for the “taking off” of women, whose com-
parative immunity from legal strangulation wor-
ries the Melbourne journal a good deal. Substi-
tute a neat electric current for the clumsy old
rope, argues the Age, and all objections to wiping
out our sisters, cousins, and aunts - not to mention
our mothers and wives—will be removed. Which
reminds us that the authorities might fix up a
special ladies’ chair, with a crewel-work antima-
cassar thrown over the back, for carrying out the
last dread sentence of the law on smiling Angelina.
* * *
Two of the old-fashioned, cumbersome
horses that Lord Hopetoun brought over from
England to draw his ridiculous state chariot, have
contrived to kill themselves. They preferred death
to the ignominious job in question.
* # •
Governor Hopetotm’s dinner “parties”
are such small affairs that the lists of those pre-
sent are invariably padded out for publication by
the inclusion of the names in full of the whole
suite and their wives and the private sec. The
Jeameses in attendance expect a cutting-down of
the expenses soon, and a consequent publishing of
their names in the “society papahs” as among
those who “partook of His Excellency’s hospi-
tality.”
« # *
Melbourne Austral Salon elects local
pressmen as “ associates ” without consulting
them, and then sends them “reminders ” that “a
guinea is now due.” Sydney Ladies’ club abhors
pressmen and press women.
* * *
From the Launceston (Tas.) Daily Tele-
gkaph of July sth. :
A rather unpleasant performance was witnessed in St.
David’s Cathedral, Hobart, last Sunday week, when a well-
known and highly-respected divine attended the evening
service, and being somewhat late was placed by the verger
in the Governor’s pew. The gentleman in question had
some diffidence in accepting the proffered seat, fearing
that, although late, some of the Governor’s party might
put in an appearance. He was not long seated, when be-
hold Lady Hamilton arrived, whereupon the intruder
moved up to the other end of the pew. A few minutes
passed by, and Lady Hamilton was seen to whisper some-
thing to the Private Secretary, who had followed her lady-
ship up the aisle. The secretary in turn 'whispered ’a
word into the ear of the aged divine, who appeared to
realise the position, and left the pew. This gentleman
was the head-piece of the Masonic order in Tasmania, ■
gentleman who commands the respect of all classes, and
one whom thousands in the best positions in Tasmania
deem it an honor to be associated with—a clergyman of
the Church of England, a gentleman and a man of high
educational attainments, and to be treated in such a
manner is—well, perhaps the sentence had better not be
finished. The sooner Queensland becomes the recipient
of such manners the better Tasmania.
• # e
The Hobart tradespeople it is said, refuse
to allow Her Excellency of Tasmania discount on
quarterly bills, therefore she pays up weekly and
sends written orders for everything. Which, we
may remark, is alike for buyer and vendor a most
excellent system, worthy of imitation by all.
# * *
Lord and Lady Onslow held a levee or
reception lately at Government House, Welling-
ton, and if they repeat the insult New Zealand
will throw off its allegiance, and hoist the red
banner which is the symbol of anarchy and revolu-
tion, and sales by auction, and blasting operations
which are conducted with dynamite The day
was raw and cold, but when each guest had shaken
the vice-regal extremity, he —or she—was com pul
sorily ejected into the garden among the damp
grass, lest the spoons and the hereditary plate tea-
pot which ran in the family should be abstracted.
Then the loyal multitude cantered round among
the sodden vegetation and tried not to die from
exposure, and waited for the host and hostess to
appear again, but neither of them turned up. They
simply shut their guests out and left them there to
shudder in the windy atmosphere. By-and-bye
a small tent was discovered where an arrogant
flunkey dispensed coffee, and the hard, imperishable
loaf, and the adamantine railway sandwich which
goes on for ever while hungry multitudes come and
go and wreck their teeth trying to eat it, and these
refreshments broke the proceedings up. The as-
aemblage fled_ in disorder by the back-gate using
mean expressions as it went, and many an inno-
cent girl swore for the first time in her life as she
was conveyed home in a numb condition, and
thawed out before the fire under the supervision of
her anxious relatives. Next time the Onslow
family give a reception the guests intend to deposit
a sufficient cash security for the spoons, and then
refuse to go out into the vice-regal garden, and
tell the Governor that they will see the British
crown in Tophet first.
* * *
Patterson, Victorian Commissioner of
Customs, is at work again on the Index Expurga-
tonus, and lias condemned two books called
Letters from Hell ” and “ Letters from Heaven,”
r,,. e . CQuigninents whereof are solemnly burnt.
Ibis is sheer unadulterated impudent tyranny,
huch books can only be destroyed because of the
theological opinions involved. No question of
obscenity arises. Such political interference is
mere catchpenny claptrap for votes. Walker, the
late Commissioner of Customs, refused to clap an
embargo even on Zola ; thus all depends on one
man’s whim. What does Patterson the ex-cattle-
dealer say to the Rabelais which Parson Bevan
commends, and the “ Don Juan ” lie has read
himself? Why, if the auctioneer-clergyman
Kinsman were Commissioner lie would exclude
Charlotte Bronte. If Balfour were Commissioner,
Shakespeare would have to bo emasculated.
# * #
Melbourne Morality Society wants the
virtuous Patterson to crusade against the toba co-
nists, because their window photos, show you what
Lie stage is like. Now, this is the gnat straining.
The Society ought to go to the five-shilling st 11s
and hiss like one o’clock. But Mrs. Grundy holds
up her umbrella. They quail. Why ? Face the
faf 5 h
5 A (13 AG, 3
đ
CIRCUMSTANCES ALTER OASES.
(SCENE—A cheap sort of restaurant.)
THE MAID IN WAITING : “EXCUSE ME, SIR, BUT WE DON’T ALLOW NO
DOGS IN ’ERE, SIR.”
CUSTOMER : “NO DOGS! WHAT NONSENSE!”
MAID: “WE DON’T INDEED, SIR, AT LEAST (with a sudden burst of candour)
NOT ALIVE.”
enemy. Get up and say : “ Friends, that’s saw-
dust; them’s bran.”
# # *
A lecture was given in Adelaide Town Hall
recently under the auspices of the Royal Geo-
graphical Society of Australasia. The subject
was “ The Heart of Africa,” and the programmes
stated that the lecture would prove interesting to
intelligent people. Governor Kintore and staff
were present. When the lecturer got fairly to
work, it was noticed that the Government House
party and a goodly number of people in the front
seats were asleep, and it was very amusing to
watch the heads getting into position whenever
the sleepers were disturbed by applause. Now,
were the sleepers lacking in intelligence, or was
the lecture uninteresting ? The President, in
thanking the lecturer, said ho “lectured like a
book. ”
* * #
The London telegraph clerks, who groaned
when called upon to cheer for the Queen, have
explained that “no disrespect to her Majesty was
intended ’’—they were simply protesting against
overtime work. This reminds one of the Austra
lian Natives who kept their seats instead of
standing up to drink V.R’s health. They excused
their disloyal behaviour on the ground that they
were too tired, or not sufficiently thirsty, or some-
thing. And the explanation was accepted as
another proof of that universal devotion to the
Throne which is so characteristic, &c,, &c. The
Bulletin honestly believes that if a drunken
democrat threw a brick at the emblem of
monarchy the “authorities”—dear old authori-
ties --would discover that the individual in ques-
tion imagined he was presenting his Sovereign
Lady with a bouquet. They say historian Fronde
is bringing out a volume to prove that no dis-
respect was intended to Charles the First by
chopping off his head. Cromwell merely wanted
to measure it for a nice new crown.
# # *
Stanley has published his book, mentally
dedicated to the hypocrisy of J. Bull, and amongst
other things ho passes judgment on his officers.
If anything could prove the consuming egotism of
the man it is the words in which he clothes his
judgment. The highest praise he awards to Jeph-
son, and that is, that he considers him an exact
duplicate of himself. Beyond this Stanley evi-
dently imagines that nothing can be said. Of
poor Bonney, the survivor of the rear-guard, on
whom the hero’s wrath was expended when the
unfortunate man was nearly dead with fever and
starvation, this magnanimous celebrity has no
word to say. Whatever mistake may have been
made, Stanley is determined that the whole blame
shall rest on the shoulders of the only one death
has spared to bear it. In the midst of all his
lionising he has not forgotten to show Bonney a
consistent cold-shoulder and snub him at every
opportunity. All heroes have more or less good-
sized number ten feet of clay, but as a rule they
keep them out of sight. Stanley, however, is, in
his own opinion, so far above ordinary lions that
he can exhibit the petty smallness of ids soul with
impunity. How does such a hero look alongside
our gallant Captain Sturt ?
# # %
Melbourne University is conducted, so far
as the presiding authorities can manage it, on
strictly Tory principles. Thk Bulletin (fortu-
nately for its proprietors, who would rather tint a
hundred men bought .a copy each than that one
copy should be read by a hundred men) is reli-
giously excluded from the University reading-
room on the ground of its undisguised
RepnhTi an ism. Yet the students’debating club
has just decided, by a majority of 24 votes to 21,
“That every true Russian patriot should be a
Nihilist’’—the majority of the ladies present
siding with the ayes. The bias of the authorities
of the Australian universities is towards monarchy
and snobbery ; notwithstanding which the ideal of
young Australia will be found in Ivan Roussakotf
and Sophie Perovskaia rather than in Albert
Edward and Queen Victoria.
* # #
George Coppin’s son celebrated his coming
of age the other day, by taking a cool £lOO from
his venerable governor, as per agreement. The
conditions were that if Coppin, junior, smoked
before attaining his majority he was to get a plain
blessing, whereas if he didn’t smoke he would be
eligible for the hundred. Like a wise child he
wont for pieces with honour, and passed the post
an easy winner.
* * *
Here is a small story about Spoftbrth, the
erstwhile demon bowler. Spolf. and a friend were
away up country and a dance was coming off in
the neighbourhood. They both wanted their hair-
cut, there was no barber, amateur or professional,
anywhere near the place, and they couldn’t bear
to go to the dance looking like wild men of the
woods, so they hit on a brilliant idea—they pro-
cured a pair of horse-clippers and agreed that each
was to “ clip ” the other, a solemn compact being
made that they would not clip too close. The
friend began operations. Spoil', sat down while
the friend ran the clippers over him, and as the
hair fell to the ground in black tresses the friend
winked softly to himself and cut closer and closer.
When he had finished Spoff.’s head was as smooth
as a billiard-ball: his ears stuck out like fans, or
the wings on a cherub, his scalp gleamed in the
sunlight as if he had a tin head. They had no
looking-glass, so Sp«ff. couldn’t see himself, and as
he made no sign that he suspected anything wrong
the friend sat down complacently to be operated
on. Spofforth started on his friend’s forehead and
ran the clippers through his hair from the fore-
head to the nape of the neck, leaving a broad,
clear track, while on each side the hair stood up
thick and wild. The cleared track looked like a
Government railway-track surveyed through
thick scrub. Then Spotf., with a demoniac howl,
dropped the clippers, the only pair on the station,
down the well and ran for his life, with the friend
after him. Neither of them went to the dance,
but the friend was ashamed to take his hat off in
the presence of ladies until he had got hold of an
amateur barber to clear off the rest of the timber,
* * *
A certain morning paper reporter went,
last week, to interview a suburban M.L.A.
“ Tell your editor,” said the member, “that he’s
a liar and a coward ; liar, because he purposely
misrepresented me; coward, because I wasn’t
about to defend myself.” The result of the inter-
view has not yet been published.
* # *
•Certificates are now being freely ladled
out from Government House, Sydney, stating
that Mr. So-and-So is hereby appointed p rk-
butcher, or assistant-deputy knife-grinder to His
Excellency Gov. Carmgton. Thk Bin iatin hopes
that the Baron will not forget the dai y press and
the (especially the junior) members ot tne Union
“ Climb.”
* * *
Military material is at a discount in Mel-
bourne Some time ago a consignment of British
army bayonets was retailed at threepence apiece,
and now a regulation kind of sword and scabbard
can be had for eighteenpence.
# # *
There is talk now of a syndicate re-con-
structing thenotorious Premier Pennanentßuildmg
Society. Liquidator Templeton has a scheme of
reconstruction Uo, but is obviously in a position
of delicacy in propounding it. There is a general
impression that the tiling will go on like the
familiar newspaper which ruins iti founders, and
gives a fortune to the next man.
* * *
Civil positions in Western Australia seem
to be farmed by sep‘s, whole families—father,
mother, sons, and daughters, descendants of early
settlers, being employed in Government work.
• * *
A Ballarat undertaker lately sued the
Trustees, Executors and Agency Co. to recover
£5l Bs. for the funeral of a labouring man named
Roster, who in life had been so unostentatious
that by the sale of his hut and furniture only 30s.
was- realised. Defendants pleaded that the
charge was extortionate, and paid £2O into court.
Two rival undertakers who gave evidence for the
defence, had to admit in cross-examination that
they had received up to £95 for a single funeral.
The jury found a verdict for £25, and Judge
Gaunt said he hoped £5 would pay for his funeral
when his time came—and that if he knew that £l7
was being spent on his burial he would turn in
his grave.
* * *
Cragan, the Melbourne “clairvoyant”
who buried his wife so unostentatiously, stated at
the inquest that he accounted f r the deceased
lady’s absence from the family circle by saying
“ she was in a private place.” It seems that this
really beautiful way of stating a solemn fact
caused a number of policemen and other miserable
objects to make great laughter in court.
Adelaide was quite gay last week, partly
owing to the arrival of H.M.S. Guracoa. Before
the ship leaves the officers will have been to four
dances, one of which was certainly given in‘their
honour, viz., Mrs. Peacock’s, at North Adelaide,
at which the Governor, Lady Kintore and Captain
The Private Place.
Poor Rosa Oragan, rest her soul!
Has died, which isn’t strange ;
And, probably, upon the whole
She’s better for the change ;
At last she’s far away from sin
And trouble, and disgrace—
Her husband having popped her iu
A very “ private place.”
There surely wasn’t cause for mirth
In that expression neat;
A cosy grave in mother earth
Must be a calm retreat;
And Cragan simply stated what
Seems certainly the case—
The loving wife who shared his lot
Is in a private place.
Each one of us has got to die,
The small as well as great;
Too rapidly the years go by—
There isn’t long to wait.
E’en though a public name we make
Among the human race,
Eventually we must take
A truly private place.
The king who wears a golden crown,
The warrior so dread,
The duchess and the cireus-clowU“
Yes, even he goes dead ;
A hero lives with glory’s rays
A-shining on his face,
But all at once (so Cragan says)
He finds a private place.


Mind you get Wolfe’s Schnapps.
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
The Choicest Jewellery. Daiims & Co., King'-st. Arcade
A,SAUNDERS,
Watches and Jewellery are like good wives—they are
worth having.
*nd for Illustrated Price List. Post Free.
813 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
(Nearly opposite Railway Station).
Factories: Liverpool and London, England.
£2 10s. English Lever, Two Years’ Guaranteed.
£3 10s. English Lever, “The Unequalled,” full cap.
£4 English Lever, “The Special,” compensated.
20/- The Unequalled Keyless Watch. 20/-
Country Residents and Visitors to Sydney call or send
to A. SAUNDERS, 813 George Street (nearly opposite
Railway Station), SYDNEY,
What Scott’sEnralsion HasDonei
Over 2B Pounds Gain in Ten Weeks
Experience of a Prominent Citizen.
The California Society fob the
Suppression of Vice,
San Francisco, July 7th, 1886.
I took a severe cold upon
say chest and lungs and did
not give it proper attention,
it developed into bronchitis*
and in the fall of the same
year I was threatened with
consumption. Physicians or-
dered me to a more congeni-
al climate, and I came to San
Francisco. Soon after my
arrival I commenced taking
Scott’s Emulsion of Cod Liver
Oil with Hypophosphites reg-
ularly three times a day. In
ten weeks my avoirdupois
went from 155 to 180 pounds
and over; the cough mean-
time ceased. C. R. BENNETT.
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS.
J^obertson’s Whisky. pbizb9 -
given away in the colonies
AS RJUiO'.VS:
Iti or 45 cucli, ‘<2o 4‘A uiitl <0
Pamnhlets from the Agents, A.I-.1-.T &: CO*, Limited,
CHARLOTTE PLACE, SYDNEY
***** s o fKr , “‘-“ diomedin ““
dances for a couple of hours. #
The Revised Bibles avo being sold at a
tor mm n.y the Old .. better.
* * #
' A m au down at North Brighton (Melb.)
. f. d Dnominiously in an attempt to combine
a fcssions of butcher and dressmaker, .the
* J so ld off insolvent’s stock of sewing-
trubt-t-b - t mea f paper patterns, sheep-
spring costumes being trimmed with “ Hook ormi-
ments.” _ # #
Sneak in* of the new French flagship for
the Bacifloatation, Sydney D.uv.v taiaA.ru
* 5 intlv savs ;—“ The Dnbourdieu is ((30 metres
• aP lpnml,' 1420 in breadth and 7<»o in depth.
Sow ’S rl™‘b metre fc e<|ual to M'STO Kngbd,
7 , I therefore, according to the D. the
Dubourdieu is nearly eight miles long, over 1800
yards in width, and about 21<0 feet uylepth.
Remark from the Wab Cey ;“ Officers
and soldiers are becoming deeply infected, and
there will he a terrible row in hell bo tore six
are over.” From which we presume that
the'Armv is*going to send down the big drum.
Also, from the same paper : “ To-morrow evening
at (5 30. Address, ‘A door open to hell., Nouaie
cordiallv invited. Opportunity for inquiry given.
* * *
It appears that the Chines? resident in
Victoria are awaking to a sense of their mora
responsibility. A whole mob of them have con-
tributed five shillings apiece to the Lymg-m-Hos-
nit'd The collector explained to them that it is
3k,t usual, in Clistian countries, to bury new-born
babies among the oabbagee, as they do in China,
# * *
Sydney Corporation apparently does not
work harmoniously with the Sewerage Board, for
i nst as the former lays down wooden blocks at the
intersections of the various streets, the sewerage
men come along and rip the blocks up again. The
array of surveying talent to be witnessed on
these occasions is wonderful. First of all a man
comes up with a thing like a water-gauge, and
ascertains the height of every barmaid m the
neighbourhood. Then somebody brings along a
theodolite, and having made quite sure that
Canopus is on the meridian, and that Alpha
Crucis is acting in an improper manner with the
Centauri, they call all hands to have a smoko
Then more men come and bring -saplings and old
cement-barrels and block the traffic ; then they go
home to rest. Just now it’s as hard to navigate a
vehicle through the principal streets as it is to get
to the Kingdom of Heaven.
* * *
Melbourne Age paragraphs the proud fact
that another voung Victoria has passed his Mb.
exam, at Edinburgh. The first native who fails
to negotiate that same simple obstaclesough* to bo
shipped back immediately in spirits of wine.
* * *
The two or three hundred bedridden
patients of Sydney hospital are still installed m a
wooden rookery that can be safely backed to
burn down within 20 minutes after it catches tire,
which may be to-day or to-night. Melbourne
hospital also has its skeleton. .Surgeon 1. IN.
Fitzgerald says the institution hospital is a hotbed
of contagion.' Several others of course say it’s a
Paradise. Coroner Yonl (also a surgeon) declares
the place is a den of septic poison and a grave for
tlie common people. Let the common people have
the benefit of the doubt —let the place be pulled
down, and not one stone left on any other stone.
* * *
This happened in—-Spitsbergen, or some-
where. The ’awk-oyed detective had run a young
fellow* to earth on a charge of larceny, and the
trial conclusively proved that, as not unfrequently
happens outside novels, the downy D. had secured
the wrong party altogether, the real culprit having
laid him on the wrong trail. During the trial the
detective noticed that the accused wore a valuable
diamond ring, and remembering that a certain
well-known theatrical character had lost something
of the kind while on a razzle-dazzle a few weeks
before, be went to him, explained matters, and
said, in a roundabout way, words to this effect
“Now, look here, Mr. , you want a ring, and
I want a conviction ; all that is necessary to pull
off that double is for you to identify the ring
this fellow is wearing as yours, and leave the rest
to me.” Mr. examined the ring, but finding
it was not his, declined to help the game along,
and, as the conviction-at-any-price party after-
wards feelingly remarked, “a first-rate good
thing ’ fell through. ”
* » *
The authorities have approved of the de-
sign for a new N.S. W. 2kl. stamp, which from its
description would appear to be a very complicated
affair. The chief reason why the American stamps
are so beautiful is that they are simple in then-
design. The reason why the Australian stamps up
to date have been such artistic failures is that they
are stuffed with detail.
Roundabout.
This paragraph is intended as a warning to
a wealthy and eminently respectable man who
aggravates us with the arrogant expression in his
eve every time we meet him in the street. te is
large, pompons, and lumbering, and he looks as if
lie regarded all the rest of mankind as being lost.
Ho never drinks anything, nor smokes, nor uses
cuss expressions, and he is moral to an awful ex-
tent, and needs to be hooped like a cask to pre-
vent him bursting with the internal pressure of
his own virtue. But something like live years ago,
when he was more or less unregenerate and his
language was not so beautifully choice as it is to-
day, he owned a warehouse in a Sydney thorough-
fare, and things were so desperately bad with him
that he contemplated suicide every time a bill fell
due. Ho even made a mark on his throat to let
him know exactly where to cut it when he had
screwed his courage up, and on another occasion he
got up in a chair and fixed a noosed rope to a nail,
and then got down again. Also he bought a
bottle of poison and threw it out into the street
Finally, however, it struck him that he would
give lit) seeking death, and he bought a large
quantity of kerosene instead, and stowed it
in the cellar, along with a mass of wood
and shavings and old newspapers, and then
one windy night he left a candle burning
down there and placed it on top of the com-
bustibles, so that when it reached its last flicker,
about four horns after the premises were locked
up, the volcano would commence. 1 hen he acci-
dentally turned on the gas, and went home to
establish an alibi and perspire m an agony of
suspense. He heaved the slops out of Ins tea cup
on his wife in mistake for the slop-basin, and when
that lady asked him to pass the sugar he handed
over the cat by the tail. He thoughtfully crowded
a sausage into his tronsers-pocket, and then he
grew embarrassed tiud told & hideously profane
THE NEW SMOKE-BILL.
“BY JOVE THESE ARE MILD—LET’S GIVE ONE TO CORBIN."
anecdote to show that he was quite at Ins ease,
and when his daughter asked him if he would
take milk, he lifted the leg of mutton by the bone
and shook it convulsively at her head, and asked
her what she meant by such language. Also,
when his dog bounced into the room he said
“Good -evening” to the animal, and told it
to hang its hat up anywhere and take a
chair, and then ho barked at his wife and
said that lie had bought her under the im-
pression that she was a retriever, but he
didn’t believe she was worth keeping. Finally,
he lit a cigar, and put the hot end in his mouth,
and went out to hover round and listen for the fire-
alarm—but no a 1 arm came, and the expected
glare on the horizon seemed as if it would never
appear. A clerical friend passed by and asked
him what he was looking for, and he shook him
earnestly by the hand and offered to lend him a
recent novel by Zola. All that night he prowled
restlessly to and fro, but nothing whatever hap-
pened, and in the morning he started off without
a collar at the first gleam of daylight to seek for
the ruins of his warehouse. He got within two
streets of it and then stopped and wondered if all
had been discovered, and if he would find two
detectives waiting on the doorstep and a police-
man overhauling the kerosene in the cellar. The
idea terrified him so much that he rushed into an
adjacent bar, and asked the girl in charge if any-
th ng had happened in the night anything at
all —an earthquake, a volcano, a waterspout,
a quantity of murders, lost dogs, females
left chargeable on the. Benevolent Asylum,
bigamy, anything; and when she said noth-
ing unusual had taken place lie felt so much
worse that ho took a drink of whisky and gave her
a shirt-button, and told her to keep the change.
Then he rushed down to the warehouse and found
it still’ standing. He charged headlong into the
cellar, and the kerosene was sitting there as calmly
as ever, along with the shavings and the rest of
the combustibles. He looked for the candle, and
found that it had blown out somehow when it was
burnt down within half-an-inch of the inflammable
material below, and, after looking at it with a
glazed eye for a moment, he sat down dejectedly
on the floor and asked if it was worth while to be
alive. Wo recall this event m no unfriendfly
spirit, but merely intend it as a hint
chiefly concerned that the arrogant expression he
decorates himself with is thrown away on us, and
that he may as well mitigate his warlike attitude
and assume a less rampant posture generally.
* * *
Some seven or eight years ago a dread-
fully enterprising young man from the Unitec
States started business in the pleasant, cheeif ,
bankrupt city of Dunedin (N.Z.), and the story
of his decline and fall is still indistinctly remem-
bered over there. He broke up P rei uature y
through becoming the adopted heir of a wealthy
resident, and when the disaster was o\ er hep, \
his carpet bag, and cursed his landlady _ from
Sheol to breakfast and back again for trying to
collect her bill, and then galloped down the street
heaping maledictions on old sett ers who cleaned
to take in an orphan, and yearn oyer him, and he
a father to him generally. Jhe cause of the
trouble was a senile patriarch who kept a small
store on that muddy desolation termed the 1 tat,
and who was said to be a miser and possessed ot
immense wealth. A mutual affection sprang up
between the two men, which ended in the younger
of the pair supplying a large quantity of goods on
credit, and the elder making a will m which he
bequeathed him a half-share in 22,000 acres of land
out in the wilderness, the other half to bo also his
if he married the old man’s niece and only relative.
The bill for the goods was renewed frequently, and
the patriarch also borrowed money off the orphan.
He said ho felt sure lie would die soon, and the
orphan hoped to Heaven he would, but instead ot
dving he seemed to grow younger. He came to
live with the orphan after a while, and ate
tremendously, and chewed tobacco all oyer the
premises, and when there w-ere visitors lie told
ungrammatical anecdotes and persistently ble v
his nose in a large red handkerchief, r malty, the
adopted son grew impatient, and suggested that
his share of the laud might be handed over a'
once, and at last they agreed to go down by train
and inspect the property, and make the needful
arrangements. The adopted son paid the railway
fares and kept his borrowed father in drinks on
the way. When they left the train they walked
18 miles through a shrieking desolation where
there were no roads, and scrambled up mountains
and across creeks and through patches of bash,
till at last they reached a stretch of rook which no
Chinaman would have taken at a gift, and the
patriarch explained that he thought this was the
land, ’but lie wasn’t sure. He added that he
believed there was a small mortgage on it, but he
couldn’t remember for certain, though he dis-
tinctly recollected that two men had lost their way
on the estate once and died of starvation. Also, he
mentioned that his niece lived in a town twelve
miles further on over a rough country infested
with precipices and wild pigs, so they went ahead,
the patriarch in front and the exhausted orphan
trailing wearily behind, and wishing that he might
nevtr be adopted again so long as he lived. It
was nearly midnight when the pair fell down the
last precipice and dragged each other out of the
last creek ; and then they routed the relatives out
of bed and demanded' hospitality. The niece
proved to be aged 32,_ and half-dressed ; also she
was, as ugly as a rag-picker, and three parts idiotic,
and apparently very defective in point of morals
as well, and in addition she was exceedingly
hoarse and her hair stood out in all directions.
The hospitality consisted chiefly of a cast-off
pancake which had evidently been thrown
rip the ; chimney and had lodged there
for a week. Next morning the heir hunted
up the local solicitor and ascertained that
the land had been sold off under mortgage 22
years ago, and having supplied this information
the man of law went forth and had the patriarch
arrested on an overdue bill cf costs. Then the
heir fled back to town, and burst into the store
with an axe, and sold off every stick his patron
possessed to make up his losses ; but that venerable
incubus, having got out on a technical point,
followed him and started an action for illegal
entry and about a dozen other things ; and when
the verdict was £250 damages and about £l5O
costs the adopted orphan escaped by night and
was never seen in these parts any more.
A correspondent seems to think that in
our reference to the lapsed Bradlaugh- Burns
debate we threw a slur on the former speaker.
Our words bear no Such construction ; we simply
said that the lapse was probably due to Brad-
laugh’s refusal to accede to the Burns stipulation
(on consideration an absurd one) for a 210,000
audience.
A friend of the Czar, the Russian Court
solicitor, Baron von Karolan, who, by error, re-
ceived lorty-five blows of the knout at_ a Moscow
police-station, now threatens his assailants with
Siberia. The Bulletin doesn’t favour flogging,
but as the cat happens to be au Australian institu-
tion it might b?, tried on the Biisbane Crown Law
officials who suppressed evidence for the defence in
the Hopeful case.
Hindoos are flung on to Melbourne’s shores
without any knowledge of English, save the words
“ Abdoolah ! Seventy-nine!” Abdullah is the
fellow who looks after them, and 79 is his number
in an obscure Fitzroy street. It puts one in mind
of the servant girl from the Scotch wilds, who
went to Glasgow to look for her sister, and who
stopped, at night-time, at a toll-house outside the
city. “Is this Glasgow?” “Yes,” “Is Mary
in?”
The most ghastly picture we have seen for
15 years is contained in a recent issue of London
Daily Graphic. Albert Edward Prince of
Wales with his hat on is inspecting a flower-show
and lias all one side of the drawing to himself and
his flunkeys ; on the other side arc the society-
women, scores and hundreds of them, standing all
avow, bending forward with bowed heads and
cast-down eyes as in the presence of God Almighty
on the Day of G neral Judgment. It is a more
than crawlsome and wormy sig t. It is loath-
some, revolting, bearing in min I the sort of man
the world well knows this fat person to have been.
England, where they decorate the Foreign Office
for a single night for a single, aristocratic recep-
tion at an expense to the public Treasury of
£3OOO, where they pay the postmen a pound a
week, and the dockers fivcpence an hour, sadly
wants a democratic illustrated paper—a calculating,
remorseless, savage, brutal print to rend and tear
such shams and rub the nitric acid into the
wounds of Groveldom.
Dear Bulletin, —I live in a peaceful
township, about 150 miles from Sydney, and am
an occasional attendant at the local tabernacle.
The congregation numbers about 100 and consists
chiefly of two old-established families—one of
them numbering 46 members and the other about
39. These figures include the original, bald-
headed parent at the head of each organisation,
together with s us, grandsons, uncles, aunts,
sms-in-law, daughters-in-law, and other strag-
glers. Either family would walk a long distance
to see the other lot die, and, as no parson can
satisfy both of them, the unhappy preacher of the
Word has to leave every three months owing to
his salary being stopped. One persistent clergy-
man named Jones stayed on 14 weeks without any
salary at all, but he defended his position with a
stick and scattered the deputations which came to
order him out. At last things got so bad that he
had to occupy the pulpit on Saturday evening
and sit there all night to prevent his
claim being jumped early on Sunday morn-
ing by some member of the flock, and when
six adherents of the church charged up the pulpit-
stairs at midnight with a view to carrying him
into the street, he hit three of them over the head,
and threw the whole consultation down the steps.
The attack was renewed four times, and on each
occasion the assailants were scattered with severe
loss. Next morning Pastor Jones delivered his
last discourse, but a prominent member nterrupted
him by reading a long chapter from Isaiah,
after which the clergyman retreated to the
door and remonstrated with a person whom
he found scooping the collection. _ The person
responded by driving the pastor’s hat down
over his eyes, and the reverend gentleman
floored him, and handed in his resignation.
There is a prayer-meeting once a week, but
as the two hostile families both pi’ay at once no-
body can make out what they are driving at. Also
the church owns a secretary who is supposed to
keep account of the funds, and two of his heredi-
tary enemies are appointed to audit him. ihe
three put together know less of arithmetic than a
monkey does about Moses, but the secretary pro-
duces a mass of figures that look as if the multi-
plication-table had been shot out of a gun, and the
other two shake ink over his calculations, and re-
port that he has embezzled 10s. 2d. Then a meet-
ing is called to consider the matter, aim both
parties drum on the floor with their feet. Taking
us all round we are a happy family. Yours, &C.,
A BUSH SAINT.


Wolfe's Schnapps—a mild stimulant.
Wolfe’s Schnapps will make you a new man.
A good bed companion—Wolfe’s Schnapps.
Wolfe’s Schnapps should be in every house.
Wolfe’s Schnapps—It is grand.
Advise your friends to drink Wolfe’s Schnapps.
Use Batho’s Baking- Powder.
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
A pure spirit—Wolfe’s Schnapps.
Wolfe’s Schnapps—look for £1 orders.
Medical.
w Massage I nst .
112 HUNTER STREET,
SYDNEY
(SECOND DOOR OFF MACQUARIE STREET),
Under the supervision of
MR. HUMBURG,
For the Treatment of
Nervous, Eheumatic & Joint Diseases.
“ Throw Physic
to th«
Dogs!
TRY NATURE’S OWN REMEDY,
ELECTRICITY.
PROFESSOR.
MINIATURE
ALLEN’S
Galvanic Battery
Is acknowledged by Eminent Physicians, and by
thousands of sufferers to be a positive Remedy for
nearly all the ailments mankind is heir to. The effi-
cacy of this Wonderful Invention as a curative agent
is certainly The Crowning Medical and Scien-
tific Triumph of the 19th Century. '
This BATTERY is not larger than a half-crown
piece, and is worn on the chest, next the skin, suspen-
ded by a silk cord around the neck. The several
metals of which it is composed are so arranged that the
natural humidity of the skin is sufficient to set the chem-
icals in the amalgamated metals in motion, generating
a constant but gentle flow of Electricity which passes
from the Battery into the system, purifying the Blood,
strengthening the Nerves,jßrain and Muscles, infusing
fresh vigor into the Debilitated Constitution, Stimu-
lating the Vital Organs to their proper action and en-
abling nature to throw off numerous diseases.
The Battery will cure the following ailments;—
Headache, Rheumatism, Sciatica, Neuralgia, Ulcers,
and Tumors, Nervous Debility, Impotence, Liver Com-
plaints, Fever and Ague, Disease of the Kidneys and.
Urinal Organs, Bronchitus, Asthma, Diphtheria, Pits,
Constipation, Piles, Heart Disease, Paralysis, Disease
of the Lungs and Throat, Skin Disorders, and almost,
every form of Aches and Pains.
The Battery has a soothing effect upon children,
while teething. Illustrated Circular sent free, giving
full particulars and directions for use,
Price FIVE SHIELINGS
By Post to any address, or supplied by all Chemist?
and Storekeepers. H. DAVY & Co , Agents. 25 i
Elizabeth St„ Melbourne.
Business Announcements.
Messrs. MAUDE & CO.,
Artists In Natural Flowers,
Having engaged a competent Lady Artist from London
are prepared to place before the public all the latest
novelties in Floral work Table decorations for Balls,
Weddings, and Dinner Parties receive special attention for
which our visiting artist may be engaged.
Boquets, Wreaths, Presentation Baskets, Floral Designs
Sprays, and Buttonholes '
are arranged in the latest London style at
The Home of Flowers,
141 King Street, SYDNEY.
Royal Exotic Nursery, Peakhurst, Hurstville.
_SH RACER
V
*
m
<
*
« _
SCIENTIFIC
instrument maker
19 MACQUARIE PLACE (Opposite Exohan
WilliOjxjjs
■ -They fit perfectly , mid arc
far *«/.( (•(■«>■ to all the other
Covets 1 have tried.’’
(Signed) Marie /tore,
the y&w
PATENT
Diagonal Seam Corset
Will not Split in tlie Seams
nor Tear in the Pabritc.
Exquisite Model, Perfect
Comfort, Guaranteed Wear.
Beware of worthless imita-
tions. Every genuine Y& N
Corset stamped “Y&N Patent
Diagonal Seam Corset, No. 116,” in oval.
THREE GOLD MEDALS!
Sold by all Drapkrs and Ladies’ Outfitters.
N'
OTICE.-W. BUSHELL is not authorised
to represent The Bulletin in any way.
"VTOTICE to Agents, Subscribers and others
A.* m Now Zealand.—Mr. J. V. HOURIGAN
r S on, y authorised Travelling Representative
for The Bulletin.
"VTOTlCE.—Advertisements for Current Week
TUESDAY 1 ' Je rece ' LATER than 1 p.m. on
“ A Golden Shanty,”
PRICE-ONE SHILLING.
Amusements.
JJ E K MAJESTY’S THEATRE.
Lessee and Manager ■ Mr. Geo. Rignold.
Doors open at 7; commencing 8. Carriages at 10.30.
LAST TWO NIGHTS ! LAST TWO NIGHTS !
of Dion Boucicault’s Celebrated Drama,
AFTEE D ABIC.
“ OLD TOM,” Mr. GEORGE RIGNOLD.
Box Office at Theatre from 10 to 5. Prices as usual.
J. P. Macdonald, Acting-Manager.
QRITERION THEATRE.
Under the Management of Messrs. Brough and Bouoicault.
Acting Manager ... Mr. H. J. Magee.
IMME N S E SUCCESS! IM MENS E SUCC E SS !
of
M IS S JANET ACFIIT R C 11,
in Henrik Ibsen’s Celebrated Play,
CC -A. DOLL’S HOUSE.”
Produced under the sole direction of
Mr. Okas. Churrinr/lon.
Prices-6s, 3s, 2s and Is. Box Plan at Nicholson’s.,
Business Manager for Mr. Chas. Charrington,
\V. H. MANNING.
||ONDI AQUARIUM.
The Most Popular
PICNIC and PLEASURE GROUNDS op AUSTRALIA.
The Famous Switchback Railway, conveying
Passengers from Cliff to Cliff daily.
Splendid Asphalt Open-Air Skating-Rink Free to Visitors.
Open Daily from 10 a.m to 10 p.m.
Admission, Is.; Children, 6d. Trams to Gate —Fare, 4d
ffl H E A T R E ROYAL.
Lessee Mr. S. Lazar.
Sub Lessees, Messrs. Williamson, Garner and Musgrove.
Treasurer Mr. Geo. L. Goodman.
EVERY EVENING ! EVERY EVENING !
The Nellie Stewart Opera company
in
“PAUL JONES.”
Prices of Admission—ss., 3s. - and ONE SHILLING.
CYCLORAM iL.
The Battle of Gettysburg.
Just added, New and Wonderful Effects: —Bugle Calls
■ Cannonading, Musketry Firing. Military Band every After
noon and Evening. The Battlefield liv Night; Gathering
up the wounded in the gloom of night. The Dead March
The Storm: Thunder, Lightning, Rain. Special effects
3 and 8 p.m. No matter if you have seen the Cyclorama
before, come again and see the wonderful effects. Bring
the children.
LECTURES HOURLY. OPEN DAILY, 10 to 10.
ONLY A SHILLING NOW!
Children Half-Price.
GRANDEST SIGHT IN AUSTRALIA.
You Will most certainly save Money,
Time, and Anxiety by placing all your
Advertising in our
hands.
NO
DON’T
WASTE
IT
"Write
to
P. T. WIMBLE & CO.,
Advertising Experts,
369 to 373 George St., Syd. Send for Pamphlet
" How to advertise and why ? ” 11th Edition.
Prospectus.
npO SHEARERS, STATION HANDS,
J- FARM HANDS, LABOURERS, ROUSE-
ABOUTS, AND BUSHMEN GENERALLY
OF ALL COLONIES.
The Land, Trade,
—AND—
Labour Union of Australia.
■ Has been established. Its objects are :
1. To unite all the above classes in one body, but
with respect to shearers it is intended to apply
to them as station hands, which very many of
them often are.
2. To raise wages, to obtain better tucker, and
men’s huts being supplied.
Generally to advocate the interests of its mem-
bers. The strength of the Union will during
next general shearing be put forth in support
■of the above objects. That the Union is a
lighting one and bona fide is proved in the
.strike against Messrs. Chaffey Bros., Limited.
Men, come and join us ! Though only lately
■started we have proved the metal we are made
■of, as the public are aware from the late
reports in the Press.
Entrance Fee and Annual Subscription, ss.
A Strong and Honed Committee of Management
arc at the head of affairs.
Committee op Management:— Chairman, Thomas Allen;
Vice-Chairman, James Laverty; Messrs. Kelly, Davis,
* loti stance, Hood, Saunders, Curwood, Black, Meld ruin
Thompson, Salsbury, Allen, Pears, and Walton. Trea
aurerg; Messrs. M'Cleod, Mills, and Wilcock. Trustees:
Xot yet appointed. Auditors: Messrs. Yule (of Williams
awl Yule, Storekeepers), and Fred. Fleetwood, Land
and Accountan t. Bankers: The National Bank of
Australasia.
WE HAVE MONEY AND GRIT.
After this year both the entrance fee and
annual subscription will be LARGELY increased,
but members joining now it is expected will only
Ijereafter have to pay the annual subscription of
2s. 6d., as they will have the fighting to do at the
first start off.
Prospectus, Members’ List, Tickets, etc., upon
..application to the undersigned, by letter or
•personally.
Post Office Orders to be made payable to—
ARTHUR TREYMAYNE,
Secretary and Manager,
Offices, Langtreo Avenue Hall,
Mildura, Victoria,
«r*-<
Agents in different towns, at sheds, and travel-
mg, will be at once appointed, Easiness people
n all district*? required to act as agents on usual
terms of commission. Apply with references as
above.
N
Furniture, &c.
EWT O N AND LAMB
FURNITURE and PIANOFORTE
WAREHOUSEMEN,
CABINETMAKERS, UPHOLSTERERS
AND
BEDDING MANUFACTURERS.
SHOW ROOMS AND MANUFACTORY:
SPRING AND O’CONNELL STREETS
ď
Full suites for dining-room-side-
ds£4?£.V. DINNER WAGGON, table,
OV ERMANTEL, COUCH, EASY CHAIRS
CARVING CHAIRS and DINING CHAIRS!
all to match. Newton & Lamb.
(^ELF-ADJUSTING HAMMOCK CHAIR,
Patented.
đ
This chair adjusts itself to any position, from
sitting to reclining and vice versa, at the will of
the occupant. It is simple yet ingenious in its
construction; works automatically. The above
cut represents only two of the numerous positions
that can be obtained instantly, and with but little
effort. It fits perfectly every part of the body,
ftnd gives the occupant entire rest. We can now
supply portable suspension Stands to enable the
Chair to be used anywhere. Price, with Stand,
305. ; without Stand, 255.
Packing in canvas, if required, 2s. 6d. extra.
DRAWINC-ROOM SIITKS, Fashionably
Upholstered, at all prices.
OCCASIONAL TABLES in all Woods. Im-
mense variety of designs; also, elegantly
finished m Embroidery, Plush, &c. Newton and
Lamb.
ETTER PILING CABINETS (Amberg’s)
all letters found instantly : no endorsing or
indexing.
s
Drawing-room
cabinets.
Early English
CHIPPENDALE DESIGNS.
Newton & Lamb.
Ill
Wi
ALNUT PALL
. . FRONT PEDESTAL
WRITING DESKS, of vari-
ous sizes, fitted with Shelves,
Moveable Pigeon-holes, Slid-
ing Trays, Stationery, Draw-
ers, revolving portable triple
Inkstand. Receptacles for
0 ~ T Stamps, and Ruler and Pen
Kacks. Outside Drawers divided into compart-
ments by movable partitions to admit of enlarging
or diminishing the space when required. Looks
automatically. One of the most useful, commo-
dious, and perfectly-planned articles forthe Library
or Office yet produced. Admirably suited to the
necessities of professional and business men.
WALNUT FALL FRONT SINGLE
PEDESTAL WRITING DESK.-
Internal arrangements almost identical with the
description given above. Price only £l2 10s,
B
OARD-ROOM TABLES, all sizes.
"DEVOLVING OFFICE CHAIRS, wit!
JAI Adjustable Spring Backs.
E
NCLOSED OFFICE WASHSTANDS and
FITTINGS.
m
I
RON SAFES..
Various Sizes.
Newton and Lamb.
Spring Sc O’Oonneir
Streets.
ď
JJEDSTEA DS,
all aiz(
Nickel-plated and Black and
Brass. Great variety.
Bedding.—All descriptions
at lowest rates.
Newton & Lamb,
d
SPRING MAT-
TRESSES (Woven
Wire), best make; also,
Spiral Spring,
Price, from 7s. 6d. each.
CHEAP FURNITURE.-Pine Tables, from
10s. ; Dining Tables, from 20s. j Kitchen
Dressers, from 225. 6d.; Washstands, from 12s. 6d.;
Chests of Drawers, from 405.; Wardrobes, from
80s.; Cedar Cheffoniers, from 30s. ; Cedar Side-
boards, from £3 35.; Clothes Horses, from
Bs. 6d. ; Writing Tables, with drawers, from 25s
N
EWT 0 N AND LAMB.
FURNITURE and PIANOFORTE
WAREHOUSEMEN,
CABINETMAKERS, UPHOLSTERERS
AND
BEDDING MANUFACTURERS.
Show Rooms and Manufactory ;
SPRING and O’CONNELL STREETS.
Beyond Fetter and Bar.
A true poet died when Amy Levy, author of the
subjoined verses, poisoned herself in London not
Jong ago at the age of twenty-five : —
The lion remembers the forest,
The lion in chains ;
To the bird that is captive a vision
Of woodland remains.
One strains with his strength at the fetter.
In impotent rage;
One flutters in flights of a moment
And beats at the cage.
If the lion were loosed from the fetter,
To wander again,
He would seek the wide silence and shadow
Of his jungle in vain.
If they opened the cage and the casement,
And the bird flew away.
He would come back at evening, heartbroken,
A captive for aye.
Would come if his kindred had spared him,
t ree birds from afar—
There was wrought what is stronger than iron
In fetter and bar.
I cannot remember my country,
The land whence I came :
hencethey brought me and chained me and made me
Nor wild thing nor tame.
This only I know of my country,
This only repeat—
It was free as the forest, and sweeter
Than woodland retreat.
V\ hen the chain shall at last be broken.
The window set wide,
And I step in the largeness and freedom
Of sunlight outside,
Shall I wander in vain for my country ?
Shall I ask and not find ?
Shall I cry for the bars that encage me.
The fetters that bind ?
AMY LEVY.
The John Turner who obtained an in-
junction restraining Colonel Templeton from
proseouting the Premier Building Association
crowd at the expense of creditors, came out of the
transaction ingloriously. Previous to ordering
hnp to pay his own costs, Judge Holroyd said—
It appears that Mr. Turner had for a long while
acquiesced in these prosecutions and I have some
reason to doubt whether his motives for moving
are directed to the interests of the association.”
The public would like to know whose interests
John Turner—commonly known as “the flying
pieman ’ —was moving in, and whether he will
have to pay that little bill of costs out of his own
pocket.
Next to Washington and his hatchet, and
that eminent patriot Bunker Hill, the thing
America is proudest of is the great impervious
vault where the country keeps its surplus, and it
has always been felt that even should the capital
be, taken the enemy might die of indignation and
old age in his vain struggles to burst through the
great iron doors which guard the accumulated
dollars. By way of testing the matter, however,
an accomplished burglar was invited to try his
hand on the massive portals in the presence of a
committee of officials, and he made his way into
the surplus in exactly 17 minutes. That mys-
terious thing described as “steps” is to be taken
immediately for the future protection of the cash.
On the question of compensation to publi-
cans Gladstone recently wrote thus
The money to be laid out is in itself considerable, yet it
has hardly a feather’s weight in comparison with the
great value it will create in all the goodwills on which it
does not operate directly. I may he wrong, but it is my
him opinion that the Bill will at once, and before a single
public-house is bought out, add largely—say, perhaps, 20
per cent, to the value of every public-house in the coun-
ty- This addition might mean, for the three kingdoms
£50,000,000 and upwards. Hence it is that I have called
it the Public-house Endowment Bill. I do not question
the intention, hut the mistake is deplorable, and the blow
to the cause of temperance is the heaviest ever struck.
This statement further strengthens The Bulle-
tin s conviction that outgoing publicans should
be compensated by those x’emaining in business.
Consider the state of things in Spain.
Here you have a miserable child-king, with a
mother, exposed to all the dangers which ruined
Queens Christina and Isabella. There is the
Camarilla, ruling the nation, but the worst danger
is that the Queen is sure to fall in love with some
military adventurer about the Court—a Narvaez
O’Donnell or Espartero. Then the fat is in the
hre. When Queen Isabella reigned she never
attempted to cast the thinnest veil of decency ovei’
her amours; if a handsome man was seen at the
opera in Madrid, no matter whether on the stage
or among the audience, Queen Isabella would
straightway take him home with her to supper
and install him as favourite in the Royal palace.
Spirit-photographs, always a sure tiling
with the credulous, are produced bv first photo*
graphing the person supposed to bo visited, in the
ordinary way with a black cloth back-ground
then for the same negative another person draped
in ghostly garments stands in the required position
but a little out of focus to prevent the outline®
being too sharp and corporeal. Light is then only
on the spirit, and the same negative as used before
is exposed a second time, and all the rest of the
held being black the spirit only is photographed.
Ut course, the second exposure is longer than with
the ordinary amount of light, hut this adds to the
ghostliness. The room must be perfectly dark
while on the ghost only a ray of sunlight falls;
close to the lens a sheet of fine gauze is hung and
it is the gauze which gives a cloud-like, luminous
appearance to the spirit’s outlines.
FOR LA GRIPPE (INFLUENZA)
And all colds and bronchial affections the best
remedy is Bosisto’s Original Eucalyptus Oil. In-
ferior oils are bottled to resemble Bosisto’s.
Buyers should see that they get Bosisto’s oil, with
registered Parrot brand on yellow label across
the cork. Accept no other, and avoid disappoint
ment. 1
A BOON TO HUMANITY.
'Tis food for young and food for old,
It gives new life and vital power,
There’s nothing in the market sold
Like Pemell’s patent Snow-white Flour.
Bona-Fide announcement. Highest cash price
given for all kinds of gent’s left off clothing.
Dress-suits for sale pr hire. Letters promptly
attended to by QUITTENTON BROS., Ill
Russell street, MELBOURNE. (New number,
163, )
The Choicest Jewellery. DiHM8& Co., King-st. Arcade.
If you have a cold, cough, bronchitis, or any
form of throat or lung disease, do not neglect it.
Ayer’s Cherry Pectoral, if promptly taken, will
speedily relieve and cure all ailments of this
character.
Thus the Bucks Gazette on Disraeli as he
appeared before the local electors on 29th June,
1832 ;—
This Adonis of the sable cheek challenges attention to
himself by adorning his wrists with cambric, his bosom
with lace; he puts a blue band round his hat when a
black one ; he carries a black cane with a gold head ; his
coat is lined with pink silk, and, before he essays on the
hustings, he formally adjusts his ringlets, whose duty is
assigned them on bis brow.


Insist upon having Wolfe’s Schnapps.
Buy Wolfe’s Schnapps by the buttle.
—
I'~ V- : LlNllH;! -
(LIMITED)
TS the must complete and perfect" instrument ever •ffeted'at llio price.'
Jl. Seven Octaves, Fuji Trichord, Iron Finnic, Patent Cheek Action, Lease,
Pin Plate, Cross-Strung,” requi,riug*'ohly the ruinunum of timing. ;* The tone
is powerful,
Walnut Cases/"
This Piano'Ta' introduced by WV 11. PALING, CO, Limited, for tho
purffcse of meeting’a long-felt demand for a good, reliable inslruincht at an
easy price, and thereby giving to the head of almost every household an
opportunity of supplying his home with a Piano at a price heieioforo
.. , paid for a* much hhtfiioriustrumcnt.
l io- Depth 2 ,j .V".’ “
Wylie, the hitherto unconquerable Herd
Laddie,” at the time of writing: has much the worst of a
draught match at Brisbane with Mar, the Queensland
champion.
Wolfe’s Schnapps cheers the mind and body.
Hanlan has defeated Hosmer in a three-mile
race on Lake Ichwa. Both are played-out men, and the
loser never was, at any time, Hanlan’s equal.
Ask for Wolfe’s Schnapps and take no other.
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
Old-fashioned Jewellery modernised to perfection. De
signs free. Baums and Co., King-street Arcade.
OUNTRY STOREKEEPERS, ETC.
A. M. MARKS & CO.,
—lmporters of —
Furniture, Pianofortes, Glass, Earthenware,
CHINA, FANCY GOODS, ELECTRO-PLATE,
CIGARS A TOBACCONISTS SUNDRIES
SOLE AGENTS FOR
Dawn Cigars and Salonica Turkish Cigarettes.
Special Novelties in all Lines for Christmas Trade.
Prices on Application to—
A.. M. Marks & Co-,
Vickery’s Buildings, 74a Pitt Streeet, Sydney 1
AND AT LONDON.
Telephone, No. 919. -
Should torite or call upon
LADIES,
CONSULT the Eminent
Specialist,
Dr. SPEER, 31 York-st.,
Sydney.
PILLS (Guaranteed), 55.. post free.
Wolfe’s Schnapps for lowness of spirits.
First Prize:
MELBOURNE EXHIBITION.
Ewing*’s Indelible
Marking* Ink.
Approved and Patronised by Vice-Royalty and
the Elite of the Australasian Colonies.
Report of the Government Analytical Chemist; '‘l have examined Ewing’s Indelible Marking Ink,
for marking linen, etc. It is very good, the writing done with it resisting all attempts to wash out.
It may be well recommended.—Signed, Wm. Johnston.” . m *
All Wholesale and Retail Chemists, Stationers, Drapers. In cases, Is. I ropnetor, T. A. Ewing 1 ,
Chemist (by appointment) to His Excellency, Brunswick-street, Eitzroy, MELBOURJNE.
NOW OPEN
MELBOURNE CUP, 1890
50,000 at 20 each,
fy 50,000 at lO each..
462 EXTRA.-462.
100 EXTRA.—4OO.
Address (please register letters) —
Adam Bede,
C/o H. N. ABBOTT,
Post Office Chambers, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Ask for the
Unequalled
“DAWN” 3d. CIGAR,
d
Of all
Tobacconists,
Store
AND
Hotel
KEEPERS.
Wholesale Agents: M. MAHKB & Co,, 71a PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
FOR full particulars of DR. SCOTT’S Genuine
ELECTRIC Belts, Hair Brushes, Flesh
and Bath Brushes, Corsets, and other appliances,
write for Illustrated Price-List. Posted free to
any address on application to the
Pall Mall Electric Association,
66 MARGARET STREET, SYDNEY.
The Referee.
Dflar Bulletin A young lady who takes a big
interest in the Australian Eleven, and, having a
general {or one of j ts members, reads closely the
mrs of all matches, the other evening remarked to
acoounts aB t, oun ding how common in England are the
rae that it is astouna g Gunn> Attewell, Peel and
Oraee In all the innocence of her dear little heart she
° uh not understand how these men could play as repre-
-Sr..le of Wight, Bristol. North of Eng-
sentative* oi counties. Upon my explain-
an, rnaHers to the best of my ability, and telling her of
ihf dtSive dualities of the ball in the hands of
fl ,n„ an d Briggs, she waxed quite indignant, and said
L he h rea lv believed those nasty Englishmen were following
onr uoor boys all over the country. This, caused me to
?nok P uo the‘record of their matches, and'it is only my
look up i motto of “British fair play that
Induces me to believe that the fair innocent must be
mistaken.— W.J.
* * ,
New South Wales Association Ground identity
“ Ned” Gregory is great on two subjects, my son Sjd.
„!„ mv trotter.” “My son Syd.” is too well known by
the general public to need comment, but Ned’s trotter
mfv need an introduction. Edward believes in having a
horse useful as well as ornamental. In the morning the
tierv steed is fitted with four large leather boots, and bar
nessed to the ground-roller, when the intelligent animal
with funereal movement picks his way over the turf with
dainty step which scarce ruffles a blade of grass. Good as
he is at this work, however, it is on the road that he
excels. Ned took the grey out for a spin one day last
w eek, and w’as doing Randwnck-road at a 2.30 gait in the
nresence of an admiring crowd, when the steed dozed off,
Ind evidently dreaming he was attached to the roller,
commenced to pace the metal with the mincing step he
affects when at his morning constitutional. Ned says
these fits of abstraction are his only failing, and if he felt
sure the moke would do a mile without thinking about
the roller, he would certainly try him on the track.
* * *
On the surface it would appear that the Aus
tralian Eleven, in being put down by weak teams and
winning against strong elevens, are playing a very in
and out ” game, but a dive below the mere record of the
games played will show that the Australians have invari-
ably won on bad Wickets, which looks very much as if
their list of winning brackets would have heen niuch
reduced had the Englishmen been able to supply them all
through with good turf.
# * *
It may surprise people who gush over every
smart bowling performance by Turner, Ferris and Co. to
hear that the Nottingham men, last season, disposed of
all the English county elevens at an average of 11 2 runs
per wicket. As regards “phenomenal” scoring, again,
Surrey knocked up two successive innings of 614 and 650
against Oxford University in 1888 and 1889 respectively.
# * *
Mr. Syd. Deane, wicket-keeper for N.S.W. in
the last intercolonial match, comes of a musical family,
and is now a member of the Nellie Stewart Opera Go. He
would have gone to England with the Australian Eleven
had it not been for Blaokham, who stood out for a Mel-
bourne man. And, by the way, it is a noticeable fact that
Burn of Tasmania, who was brought in by the Victorians
as second wicket-keeper in preference to Deane, has never
been placed behind the sticks. However, Deane is now
behind the footlights in place of the stumps, and if he
turns out as good at one game as the other he will take a
lot of beating.
# * *
The Rugby footballers had a big day out on
Saturday on the Association Ground, when Sydney defeated
Bathurst by 20 to S. The most prominent player on the
oround was the colossal Frazer, who hails from Parra-
matta, and whenever he seized the ball a cry of Look
out for the Infant!” went up from the Bathurst pavilion
“ barrackers.” Once the oval got into dangerous proxi-
mity to the Sydney goal, but the flying Lusk got posses-
sion of it and, making the greatest run ever seen on the
ground, secured a touch. At a football match on the
Association Ground, it is perhaps better fun than watching
the players to “pipe’’the expression on Ned Gregorys
face when a man starts to deliberately dig a hole on his
pet wicket, preparatory to making a try for goal.
* * *
Consequent upon the much-regretted but long-
expected death of Hon, James White, ‘punters will
not have such an opportunity of laying 60 to 40 on a
horse and getting a fair run for their money. Gov. Car-
ington can now pay Earl Dudley the £lOO he loses over the
wager, £lO,OOO to £lOO that Mr. White would not win an
English Derby in a given number of years, and Mons Meg,
Wentworth and the other youngsters now in England will
be cut out of the classic races, as their nominations lapse
by the death of their much-respected owner.
# * *
It has been a popular fallacy that Mr. White
never betted to any extent on his horses. The writer
recollects one occasion, when Carlyon started an untried
horse at Randwick, that the deceased gentleman, whilst
leaning quietly against a post, accepted all the five
to two hundreds the books oared about laying. And then
the very public style in which Joe Thompson elected
to pay over the £lO,OOO he lost over Chester’s double
victory ought to have established Mr. White as a not only
big but fortunate speculator in turf-wagers.
* * *
A deal is heard about the straight running of
Hon. James’White’s horses, but when of
the deceased gentleman’s turf career are considered, it
would have been more remarkable if he had not always
run to win. Mr. White enjoyed enormous means, had
good judgment in the selection of stock, or if not per-
sonally possessed thereof he had the money and the
cleverness in the right direction to employ it, and perhaps
better than even these favourable conditions, he had
wonderful “ luck ” in obtaining the animals which
formed the nucleus of his celebrated stud ; also, he died
before his luck changed. Mr. “Bill” Long, perhaps one
of the best judges of a horse in N.S.W., is, for all practi-
cal purposes, an equally W'ealthy man, and when he swept
the board with the unbeaten Grand Flaneur it looked as
if his good luck had set in, but fortune changed, and his
grasp of the classic races began and ended _ with that un-
conquered horse. Mr, “ Bill” Gannon also is looked upon
as rather an astute horseyman, and has never allowed
price to stand in the way of obtaining a first-class animal,
but his luck has been to run innumerable seconds with
such horses as Sweet William and Melos,
* * *
The Y.R.O. Grand National Hurdle Race put
all the “ double event” pickers out of their misery at the
first pop. Of the outside public not one, probably, took
Ellerslie in conjunction with any of the eight or ten
horses that are alleged to have the Steeplechase already
won, so when that nice-looking animal had outstayed
Priscilla and stalled off the New Zealander, Donald, a
sepulchral groan expressed how much the multitude was
enjoying itself. The complete overthrow of the punters
was assisted by the prophets of sporting papers, who were
unanimous in discovering that Ellerslie, of all the com-
petitors, had no chance. He was “a light of other days ” ;
lie could be “passed over,” or “ignored,” or done any
thing with except backed by the faithful believers in in
formation. All the while, however, bookmaker Bob Phillips
was making a volume for the despised gelding and letting
his most intimate friends know that he had the
proverbial dead-bird up his inevitable sleeve. Had
the ground been less boggy a different number might
have gone up, yet the race seemed truly run and decidedly
fast under the existing conditions. The great Miller
stable ultimately elected to stand by Pmgara alone, but
the 9st. 71b. mare, who cut a poor figure beside several
others in the paddock, was beaten before the top-weights,
Coryphus and Tradition. Evidently the latter was the
popular fancy. lie looked bright and cheerful, but not so
lusty as he will have to look before any of the money
dropped over him since Mentor’s “ Cup ” can be recovered
over a big race. After going about 2J miles the sensa-
tional ” horse pecked on landing over his hurdles, and
finally rolled in a tired fourth. A dicky hind-leg may
prevent him from showing up for next Melbourne Cup, so
all w'ho have a liking for mysterious ones which ought to
bring off a coup, but don’t, had better watch and wait
awhile for Tradition.
* * *
The Pingara fizzle gives little encouragement
to take a short price about any of Miller’s horses for
next Saturday’s Steeplechase. Recent rams have pre-
vented those wealthy and not very communicative sports-
men from getting a line, as it is called, with their candi-
dates. However, it is certain that Redleap, Eaglet, and
Noroo were good ones last year, and if the money goes
down heavily on either, then the punter’s pound might
o-o the same way. On paper there are several with as
good or better chances. Appalling stories of the improi la-
ment made by Sir Joshua have come up from Ballarat,
where the ex-N-S.W. horse is never crossed, save by
the sacred legs of Soobie-so says rumour. Lawler
is another well-bred and business-looking cer-
tainty,” likewise Busaco. Mahdi must run well
on previous form at Flemington, and Fearless lE, who
won the Maiden Steeple last Saturday, can’t be quite out
of it. Only one manages to win all the same, civen
Redleap at his very best he would beat all the old familiar
stagers right enough. We don’t fancy Redleap at his
very best, but Titokawaru seems to be, and as the New
Zealand jumpers (not to mention riders like Rae) are evi-
dently above the Australian average, there is at least
some show of sense in backing a recent winner like xito-
thingummy. His name is the only thing against him.
# * *
Young Stanley, the clever lad who brought
Bllerslie (50 to 1 starting price) home in the Y.R.O. Errand
National Hurdle, is only six months in the stable, hav-
ing previously made thrippenny books in a suburban
State-school. Robert Phillips, owner of Ellershe, and
tobacconist-bookie, believes in State secular education.
* * *
Brazil, the English jockey, was allowed to stand
idle at Flemington last Saturday, while a lot of_ fellows
who can’t* get their horses home once in twenty tries were
riding for the public—rather than the stable money.
Brazil has had two mounts up to the present, winning m
the most brilliant fashion on each occasion. In tact, it nt
isn’t the very best steeplechase rider in Australia, he must
be near it, awful near it. “ Brazil up” will be the popular
cry ere long.
* * *
Mr. Harry Poulsen, staff sporting-writer for
Sydney D.T., has died, at the early age of 22 years. He
was one day last week riding a horse, when it bolted and
impaled his groin on a cart-shaft, causing most terrible
injuries, which in the course of sixty hours proved fatal,
despite all that surgery could do. He arrived m Sydney
but a few months ago, just after Mr. Bob Mostyn had
resigned his post on the D.T., and was placed on trial in
Mr. Mostyn’s position, with such excellent results that the
proprietary gave him a permanent appointment. Mr.
Poulsen was originally intended to be a parson of the
Church of England, and so obviously kind, honest, and
open-faced a fellow would have done credit to any church;
but he eventually chose the Press as a and
entered into journalistic work with much enthusiasm.
And now he is dead, to the unspeakable sorrow of his
relatives and friends. Mr. Poulson was born in New
Zealand and died at Sydney hospital in the presence of his
sisters who lately came from Maoriland to join him.
* * *
Is it a compliment to Australians that both
Hanlan and O’Connor trained here with no one but
strangers to look after them ? We all_ know how poor
Jack Thompson “barracked” for Trickett, and both
Beach and Searle were well looked after. Yet the
| two Canadians had not a single friend around them. We
have known prominent boxers, peds., &c., who were never
out of sight of their gaffer or trainers. Not only
would the latter be in constant attendance, asleep and
awake, but they would not even allow the best hotel chef
to cook a chop for their men. And anyone who knows
the ways of the sporting world will agree that such pre-
cautions are necessary. „
* * *
The Duke of Portland, when he ran first and
second for the One Thousand Guineas, had declared to
win with the inferior of his fillies. Memoir had to be
pulled to let Semolina get up.
* * *
Master Griffiths, the featherweight, better
known as “Griffo” in fistic circles, played the game
rather low down on those professing to be his friends or
Wednesday last. “ Griff ’ was booked tor Yankeetond hj
the Zealandia, and was duly escorted to tl)at steamer hj
a Ills’ nosse of snorts. Just before the vessel cast or,
three cheers were calledfor the youthful t °
was so overcome by emotion that with handkerohiief to
eye he was seen to leave the vessel’s rail. Another parting
cheer was given and the party sauntered up town when
almost the first acquaintance they dropped across WM
Mr. Griffo, who had changed his mind at the last moment
and quietly dropped to the wharf over the steamers
counter.
* * #
Broken Hill would appear to be as prolific in
bruisers as in silver. Goddard beat the
weight, Mick Dooley ; light-weight Haber put Jack Fuller
through hisfacings; and at Hay, on 3rd July, middleweight
Jim Ryan showed terrific hitting power whilst cracking
up one Harry Edwards in four rounds. Charley Dunn,
who had his y jaw smashed by Fogarty in their' las
counter, has been trying hard to get on another match
with the victor, but as Fogarty does not appear likely to
toe the scratch, the Sydney Amateur Gymnastic Club will
in all probability “put up” a purse for Dunn and Jim
Ryan to battle for.
• * *
A Port Pirie (S.A.) man has already dreamed
that G’naroo will win the Melbourne Cup, and thus he
gets in three months ahead of the other nightmare men
in Australia.
* * *
A well-known sporting authority lately said
that Hanlan was defeated in Australia not so much by
Australian manhood as by Australian womanhood.
* * *
The Anti-Gambling Society, London, publishes
a pamphlet with testimonies from converts, including the
rather celebrated Lady Sebright, who used to rival Lady
Monckton as an amateur actress. Herbert Spencei
testifies that the sin in gambling is that you some-
times gain pleasure at the cost of another s pain, like a
religious-newspaper ghoul cutting to the heart of the
widow of a dead man.
# # *
Sefton, a thoroughbred gelding, once owned by
the Jubilee Juggins, was eaten, after being cooked, by the
hounds at Ashburton kennels. Both horse and owner
went to the dogs.
# #
Visitors to the Dutch-Couche race on the Parra-
matta last Saturday, this time in w-ager-boats, had a bit
more excitement for their money than is usually meted
out at even championship races. On the strength of his
win in skiffs Couche was elected favourite at 2 to 1, but
Dutch went away with the lead and at Putney had three
lengths to the good. From this out Couche commenced
to gain, but he was unable to get close? than a length and
a half to Dutch at the finish.
SYMPATHY FOR CHILDREN
From the Southport Visitor.
“ There is nothing that touches the tender chord
of sympathy so quickly as to witness the suffering
of children, who are wholly dependent on what
others do for them. A case in point, and one
which should excite the sympathy of those who
have children of their own, is that of little Annie
Jane Allison, 12 years old, of 4 Batavia-street»
New Cross, London, S.E., whose long years of
suffering, as narrated below, were brought to our
attention by a gentleman who is familiar with all
the particulars.
“ It seems that about nine years ago the mother
noticed a swelling of the child’s knee, accom-
panied by severe pain. The family doctor advised
taking her to Guys Hospital, where she attended
several weeks as an outdoor patient, at the end of
which time, having obtained no relief, she was
taken to the Children’s Hospital, Great Ormond-
street, W.C., where she attended for nearly four
years. Mr. Marsh, F.R.0.5., senior surgeon to
the above hospital, author of 4 Diseases of the
Joints ’ and lecturer on ‘Hip Diseases,’ stated
that the child ‘ was in great danger and might
lose her leg. ’ She was then taken to the London
Hospital. The attending physician, Mr. Fredk.
Treves, F.R.0.5., L.S.A., &c., said the case was a
very bad one. Through the influence of Miss
Thoveman, her Sunday-school teacher, and Dr.
Mitchell, the family doctor, she was admitted into
St. Thomas’ Hospital, where she remained for
several weeks, under the immediate care and
attention of that eminent authority, Dr. Sydney
Jones, senior surgeon and lecturer on surgery, but
she continued to grow steadily worse. On the
hospital card, which Dr. Jones gave to the child s
mother, he described the case 4 White Swelling.
At this time her bodily health began to decline,
and the parents became so alarmed that they took
her to the seacoast. Her suffering was fearful to
behold. Her screams night and day were heart-
rending, and her parents were driven almost
frantic. She could not be moved without going
into spasms. She could not even bear the
weight of ttie bedclothes on her knee. In
desperation the parents went back with her
again to St. Thomas’ Hospital, but they
could do nothing more for her. Through the
influence of a local physician, she was again
brought before Dr. Treves, of the London Hospi-
tal, who, after making a thorough examination,
stated plainly to the mother that he 44 could do
nothing whatever for her.” She could not move
without the aid of two crutches, and then only by
the greatest effort, accompanied by the most in-
tense pain. She was reduced to almost a skeleton,
and her life was despaired of. At this critical
period her father began to hear of the most mar-
vellous cures wrought by a newly-discovered oil,
which he hastened to procure and try on his little
sufferer, when almost directly the pain began to
ease, the swelling to disappear ; and for the first
time in years the child began to sleep soundly at
night. Continuing to use the magic oil, it was
but a short time before one of the two crutches,
which for years the little one had been obliged to
use, was thrown aside, and the pain also became
less intense. In a few weeks more the remaining
crutch was exchanged for a stick ; later on the
stick was placed away with the two crutches, and
the little patient emerged from a life of the most
intense suffering and danger, to complete freedom
from pain, and she now walks without the aid of
crutch or stick.’' .
If further proof were wanting that St. Jacobs
oil, which is the oil above referred to, “conquers
pain,” in every instance, a gentleman connected
with this paper could furnish additional evidence
from his own personal experience. He applied
the oil upon himself, when suffering most intense
agony, and all pain disappeared in ten minutes.
He now considers St. Jacobs oil a household neces-
sity. and would no more think of going a journey
without a bottle or two of the oil in his portman-
| teau than he would without his top coat. His ex-
perience, to our personal knowledge, is that ot
other well-known citizens of Southport.
CLERGYMAN TESTIFIES.
THE KEY. GENTLEMAN’S ADVICE.
Rev. Dillon Bronson, 12, Somerset-street, Bos-
ton, writes : “ I desire to give an unsolicited testi-
monial to the excellence of your watches, and to
say that you have done a very great service to
mankind. I have carried a Waterbury Watch for
three years. It has kept exact time, and appears
as good as the day I bought it. Having acquired
the habit of automatically turning the stem every
time I consult it, I always find it wound at night
without knowing when I did it. My conscience is
clear, because I can use the extra lOOdol. which an
expensive watch would cost to do good with. I
would advise my clerical brethren to buy Water-
burys, and give the. balance to the widows and
fatherless, instead of carrying gold cases of great
value.
“I would not exchange my Waterbury for any
50dol. watch made, for my own use. If it is stolen
I can get another, and for time it is as good as I
could desire.
“ Accept my sincere thanks for so great a bless-
ing within reach of the boys and the poor. Am
just starting on a two years’ tour around the
globe, and shall carry my Waterbury all the time.’,
AT A TRIFLING COST
You can obtain a Waterbury watch, which rarely
gets out of order, and never constitutes itself a
permanent tax on the owner. In the event of
injury befalling it, by taking or sending it to the
Company’s Repair Depot, 56, Margaret-street, it
can be efficiently repaired at a nominal cost, rang-
ing, according to the extent of damage, from fid.
to 2s. 6d., but never exceeding the latter
amount unless by mutual consent. The genuine
Waterbury may be obtained from any respectable
storekeeper or dealer. Price, series “E ” (the old
favourite), 13s. fid.; series “J” and “L” (the
new marvels), 20s. each, or with enamelled dials,
225. fid. each.


Hats made to Order-
Morley’s Hosiery.
Business Announcements.
PRIDDY & CO.,
MANUFACTURER
UMf HATS, I
Mercerv
438 George Street, Sydney.
Branch—67B George Street, Brickfield Hill.
d
REGAINED AND RETAINED.
Tfie Aostrallao
{nstitate,
35 CASTLBSEASH STREET,
Founded for the Treatment of Nervous, Skin
Bloccl. and Chronic Complicated D seases, Is
the Only Reliable Medical Institute in Austral-
asia making a Speciality of PRIVATE DISEASES.
DR. JENKINS
Treats sucessfully all forms of Nervous,
Chronic, and Private Diseases, no matter of
how long standing or however complicated.
totheunfortunate;
Who through ignorance and folly have trifle#away
their strength, become ambitiouless in life, en-
feebled in power, and to whom existence is scarcely
bearable. Dr. Jenkins says
COME AND BE HEALED
. .. , ■ ■ -
As the terms upon -sdiich patients are treated, viz.,
NO CUBE NO FIJE, enables all sufferers to avail
themselves of this remarkable opportunity of
obtaining a speedy and effectual cure. Dr. Jenkins
wishes it to be distinctly understood that he docs
not rely upon the issue of books, more often never
written by the persons whose names they bear, and
are mere traps for unwary, but honestly and
straightforwardly treats his patients according to
the dictates of a soufid medical training.
NOTE THE ADDRESS
The AUSTRALIAN MEDICAL INSTITUTE,
35 CASTI.EREAGII STREET (Comer Moore-street),
f.t.w, *oo. SYDNEY*
C/"
0>
from
every flower that
breathes a fragrance
SWEET SCENTS
LOXOTIS OPOPONAX
y FRANGIPANNI PSIDIUM ~
May he obtained
Of any Chemist or
Perfumer,
b . v°
*°od street
Beware of imitations: The fenuitte insiijaed
M.
'H
TRADE MAKE .—MUSE ;
ď
m - ******* •
m i
sr‘
TH E
ROYAL
EDINBURGH
„ CASTLE -
Speculßeserve
A A -k
IsCOTCHWHISky f
I . %
I i ie&J/ujfrtiUou ||
MMM*
ROYAL
Edinburgh Castle
WHISKY.
* * *
Special Reserve.
In Square Bottles.
' i
This*Whisky was
selected by our Gene-
ral Manager, Mr. Jas.
Cullen, during his
recent visit to Scot-
land, and through its
purity, ago and mag-
nificent bouquet, has
already secured the
premier position inthe
market. Incases,qrs.
and octaves. To be
had Duty Paid from
any of the Wholesale
Wine and Spirit Mer-
chants and Distribu-
ting Houses, and in
Pond only from the
SOLE AGENTS,
William Campbell k Co M Limited*
58 Clarence Street. SYDNEY.
QrandL Pier Hotel, Manly.
lUCIWO PHOTOENC- CO- 8 BRIPCE-STv SYDNEY.
LATIMER ci BKOOKE
This Hotel has been Re-Furnished throughout.
■ • proprietors.
Cuisine and Comfort a Speciality.
Aarons’ Exchange Hotel, Sydney.
■ fwM
-.t
mm
T~
Adjoining tlie Sydney Exchange.
Mining, Financial and General' Mercantile Intelligence
Posted several times DAILY in the Building 1 .
TELEGRAPH, POST and MONEY ORDER OFFICES on the PREMISES.
This Hotel has been thoroughly renovated and re-furnished, and is now unrivalled for comfort
and attention.
Aarons’ Exchange Hotel Co. (Limited), Proprietors.
IDo You Smoke ?
If so, treat yourself to an article so far above all other brands in quality and flavour that it cannot be
excelled, jhe Tobacco we want you to try is the “DEAD BIRD" brand. In colour it is a rich
dark brown, and is the finest quality of American Tobacco ever introduced. We only ask you to send
for a Single Plug or a jib. packet of the Long Cut, and, after having once tried it, you will never
change it for any other brand. We can send you a small parcel of the tobacco in any form —as a
Mixture, Long Cut; or Curly Cut, - for pipe only. This particular cut does not require any rubbing up.
We can send you any size plug frpm an ounce to a pound weight.
For 11b. Plugs
For Long Cut, |lb.
pkts
«/-'
7 /_
PRICES:
f Single Ping, as sample, £lb •... 1/6
I Single Packet, as-sample, Jib ... 2/-
Send Stamps for any of these amounts, and we will forward to any part of N.S.W. (post free.)
SOLE
AGENTS:
CRAIG A AITKEN, 680 George Street, Sydney.
JONES’ SEWING MACHINES,
FOR THE BOOT AND TAILORING TRADES.
THE BEST MANUFACTURING MACHINES IN EXISTENCE.
Now Perfected, the New No. 3 and No. 4 Machines on an Entirely New System.
STOCK JUST LANDING.
F arleigh, 3NT ettlieim, & Co.,
TANNERS AND LEATHER MERCHANTS,
16 + + STREET, + SYDNEY.
Sole Agents for the above for New South Wales and Queensland.
(X)
ALSO Importers of Requisites for the HOOT MANUFACTURING TRADE in all Details, including MACHINERY,
IMPORTED LEATHERS, &e.; and of the following Special Links : Peerless Gloss, Satin Polish, Nubian
Blacking- Tanners’ Tools and Materials. JSF” Indents Executed on Favourable Terms.
Medical.
DR. RICHARDS.
, :!
--rnw. ;
! ! i! ,5 fv-3!!:.-,S!'-.H .'.'i...
j
33
OOM
WK-
IB
m
;
This eminent Specialist, Founder, and Chiel
surgeon of the long-established and favourably
xnown Dispensary that now bears his name, re
ceived his medical education in the leading colleges
and hospitals of Europe. He has devoted a life-
time to the study of
PRIVATE, NERVOUS, AND SKIN
DISEASES.
He has by profound research thoroughly investi-
gated their origin, traced their deadly sources and
insidious dissemination, and ascertained the surest
and safest methods by which they may be eradi-
cated, with these widely recognised qualifications
combined with unswerving faithfulness to his
patients, he has during his practice, extending
over FORTY YEARS, attained a well-deserved
pre-eminence in their treatment. His practice
embraces diseases which probably cause more un-
happiness than any other class of troubles that
afflict mankind.
YOUNG MEN
who suffer from the results of early follies, trans-
gressions or excesses of more nature age, bladder
difficulties, a whitish or dark ropy sediment in
the water, accompanied by slight burning or
smarting sensation, Headaches, Drowsiness during
the day, circles round' the eyes, Giddiness,
irregularity of the bowels, specks before the eyes,
bashfulness, discontentedness, weakness or pains
in the back. Liver or kidney complaints, dreams,
buzzing noises in the ears and head, pimples, a
fear that something dreadful is about to happen,
weak stomach, yellow or blood-shot eyes, impure
blood, hasty, uncontrollable temper, hacking
cough, who cannot marry, nervousness in society,
wakefulness, palpitation of the heart, general
weakness, and other symptoms which lead to in-
sanity and death, should consult him, for he has
mastered these difficulties. On receipt of fid. in
stamps lie will send secure from observation in a
plain wrapper, postage
FREE, A LARGE CLOTH-BOUND
BOOK.
Showing plainly how all diseases of the private or
nervous system may be cured thoroughly and per-
manently without unnecessary expence. This
book will prove a valuable companion, and even
though you be perfectly well its general inform-
tion and prescription may assist you in restoring
some poor friend to health even after his case ha-:
been pronounced incurable by his medical at-
tendant. „
ONE FOUND IS SUFFICIENT TO
SEND
for Remedies necessary for the cure of* NER-
VOUS DEBILITY. Should you require medical
treatment, as procrastination is sometimes dan-
gerous, it would be advisable for you to sit down
quietly in your chamber and write to the doctor,
detailing every experienced symptom. He will
on receipt of such a letter, write you, promptly
and courteously, a candid and straightforward
oponion of your case. If you do not think you *
understand the case, send for his famous medical
work, the price of which is but sixpence ; enclosed
in the volume will be found a list of carefully-pre-
pared questions, which will,' in all probability,
assist you materially in describing your ailment.
Dr. Richards uses nothing but the purest remedies,
and never prescribes mercury under any circum-
stances. The moment letters arc cai’efully per-
used and answered they are destroyed by Are,
and patients may rest assured that their caees
will remain a secret between the doctor and
themselves. Dr. Richards has siiccessfully treated
nearly 25,000 cases since coming to Australia, and
has permission from at least 10,000 persons to
show their written evidence of his success. All
communications should be addressed
Dr. RICHARDS,
7 Spring Street
(OS Pitt Street North)
SYDNEY.
Be Bure to mention this paper when writing
CONSULTATION FREE.
DISAPPOINTMENT.
“It's no use waitin, Tilly, I can’t come out; I’ve just been spanked, an’ I’ve got ter go to bed
without any supper, an’ besides mother’s took all my clothes away an’ hid ’em. Giv Jimmy ray love
an’ tell him how it is!"-Ex.


Shipping.
jjUDDART, PARKER & CO.’S LINE
STEAM TO
MELBOURNE and TASMANIA.
From Huddart, Parker’s Wharf.
For Time and Date of Sailing, see daily papers.
The magnificent steamships. BURRUMBEET and
I tNGAMITE, have established an unrivalled reputation
for their speed* and accommodation, and their large size
ensures passengers a maximum of comfort. The saloon
® ■wns are light, airy and very roomy. The dining saloon
. full width of the ships, also magnificent music room,
with gentlemen’s smoking room and splendid promenade
deck Fore-cabin is on the main deck-lofty and well-
ventilated perfect sanitation and ample lavatories. Fore-
cabin passengers provided with victuals and rugs. Inspec-
tion invited on days of sailing.
FARES to MELBOURNE :
Saloon, Single
„ Return
Forecabin •••
5 0
5 0
10 0
FARES to LAUNCESTON :
Saloon, Single ... 5 0
. Return ... 10 0
B 1 A A
Forecabm - 1
FARES TO HOBART :
Saloon, Single £1
Return
0
1 10
Return Tickets available for Six Months.
For Freights apply
HUDDAET, PARKER & CO-
(Limited).
Office and Wharf: Foot of Margaret Street, Sydney.
NORDDEUTSCHER LLOYD.
IMPERIAL GERMAN MAIL.
Passengers are carried according to the requirements of
the English Passenger Acts of 1885 and 1863.
MONTHLY LINE OP DIRECT STEAMERS
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, and ADELAIDE,
to SOUTHAMPTON, ANTWERP, and BREMEN, via
COLOMBO, Aden, Suez, and Genoa,
taking passengers for London,
connecting from PORT SAID by DIRECT MAIL and
0° PASSENGER LINE to BRINDISI,
will be despatched as follows (if practicable):
And thereafter every four weeks.
PASSAGE MONEY from SYDNEY,
£l4 to £57 10s.
RETURN TICKETS, available for NINE and TWELVE
MONTHS, at REDUCED RATES.
Passengers and Cargo are booked through to New York,
via Southampton. .
Special facilities are afforded for bringing out relatives
and friends from the United Kingdom and Europe by pre-
payment of the passage money in Australia.
For FREIGHT, PASSAGE, and all further particulars,
apply to FREDK. BETZ & CO., Agents, 5 O’Connell-street.
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF NEW
ZEALAND. Limited.
SAN FRANCISCO ROYAL MAIL SERVICE.
OVERLAND ROUTE TO ENGLAND VIA SAN
FRANCISCO AND NEW YORK,
Calling at
AUCKLAND and HONOLULU,
Avoiding alike the heat of the Red Sea and the cold
of Cape Horn.
Under Contract with the Postmasters-General of New
South Wales and New Zealand, the steamers of this line
are appointed to leave Sydney and Auckland for Honolulu
and San Francisco every fourth Wednesday, sailing as
under:—
Each steamer carries a duly qualified surgeon.
These steamers are fitted with Electric Light and with a
Refrigerating Chamber for ship provisions, insuring a
plentiful supply of ice throughout the voyage.
Passengers are booked to San Francisco or through to
European destinations and have at San Francisco choice of
the unrivalled Atlantic Steamship Lines of the Cunard,
Inman, White Star, and other companies.
All first-class passengers are allowed 3501 b. of baggage
to San Francisco and 2501 b. “ Overland ” free of charge.
THROUGH FARE TO LIVERPOOL.
FIRST-CLASS £63 to £66.
Time-cards, railway maps, and gu'de books, showing all
routes to any point in the United States, may be had on
application
_ For rates of passage and freight and all other informa-
tion apply at the Company’s Offices, 15 Bridge-street.
FREDK. W. JACKSON, Manager.
fiOMPAGNIE DES MESSAGERIES MARI-
U TIMES,
SYDNEY to LONDON.
OVERLAND FROM MARSEILLES via PARIS.
Steamers under postal contract with the Government of
Prance, calling at MELBOURNE ADELAIDE, KING
GEORGE’S SOUND, MAKE, SUEZ, and PORT SAID.
Passengers booked to KURRACHEE, BOMBAY,
MAURITIUS, and EAST COAST of AFRICA.
The service is carried on by powerful steamers of 4000
tons and 3000 effective h.p., built expressly for the Aus-
tralian and New Caledonian line, which will be despatched
as follows:
Stenmcm .Leave Sydney Leave Mel-
Steamers. Commander, i at u b ourne4p.m
YARRA ..Boulard July 25 [July 28
AUSTRAL’EN Didier .. ..1 August 25 'August 28
And thenceforward on the 25th of each month.
. Rates of passage-money to Marseilles from £2O to £65,
including table wines and Suez Canal dues on passengers.
RETURN TICKETS issued at the following rates
Third
Class.
£34
£36
Available 9 months
Available 12 months
English interpreters meet through passengers for
London on arrival of steamers at Marseilles, and accom-
pany them to Paris and Calais. N.B. Passengers’luggage
conveyed free of cost from Marseilles to London. For
height, passage, and further particulars apply at the
Lompany’s Office, 15 Macquarie-place.
A. CONIL, Principal Agent.
ISTORY OF BOTANY BAY.
PRICE-ONE SHILLING.
Medical.
%
&
o
o
&
-j&
oS
Cre
LO’Tl
ESj
Bam
RELIABLE
THIS valuable Lotion is guaranteed to cure SWELLING
and SANDY BLIGHT, INFLAMED EYES and LIDS,
DIMNESS OF SIGHT, &c. It will be found very bene-
ficial and cooling to those who have weak eyes, or whose
work compels them to strain their eyes. Highly
recommended by the leading Oculists.
Manufactured only by the Proprietor,
H. A-. ROSE,
Dispensing and Manufacturing Chemist,
531 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Wholesale by the Proprietor and all Wholesale Houses.
Established 1858. By Post Ss. Gd.
KjgT“ Manufacturer of Dr. SOUTHAN’S GOUT and
RHEUMATIC PILLS.
Macassar
Oil
Has' been known for 100 years as tne oest preserver
and beautifierof the hair: it prevents it falling offer
turning grey, strengthens weak hair, and eradicates
■curt and dandruff; it is unsurpassed as a hrillianline
for the beard and moustaches, u> which it imparts a
soft and silky appearance : it is also sold in a golden
colour fur fair-haired children..
Rowland’s
a soothing and emollient milk (or the face, and is most
cooling to the skin in hot climates; it removes freckles,'
tan. sunburn, roughness and redness of the skin,
pimples, cutaneous eruptions, &c„ and pronnces soft
fair skin, and a lovely delicate complexion.
ROWLAND’S ESSENCE CF TKRE, a harmless preparation
for dyeing red or grey hair a permanent brown or
black. Ask chemists and druggists for Rowland's
articles.
PI
./A
ON.
The extraordinary reputation of Rowland's Macassar
Oil, Kalydor and Odonto, induces some shopkeepers to
offer spurious imitations under the lure of being cheap;
the principle on which each is prepared is confined
solely to the knowledge of A. Rowland & Sons, of 20,
Hatton Garden, London, and therefore it is highly
necessary to buy no MacasSar Oil. Kalydor or Odonto
except those made by them, and which bear their
name in red ink on the wrappers.
T7T AIN’S FAMILY & COMMERCIAL HOTEL,
PRINCES STREET.
(Opposite G.P.0.)
ID TJ IsT IE 3D 11ST, Is T.Z.
ALEX. PALMER .. .. Proprietor
Medical.
The Male Generative Function
IN
Health and Disease,
BY
Dr. ALEX. PATERSON,
M.A., M.D.; F.R.C.S., Ed.; M.R.C.S., Eng.
PRICE, 2s. 6d.
o: INION 3 OF THE TRESS ;
“ Valuable medical work—the Doctor is a quali-
fied man and speaks with authority.”— Town and
Country Joukna l.
“Can recommend it as a work written by a
gentleman who has attained a very high status in
his profession.”— Manning River Times.
“It sets forth scientific truths which, in the in-
terests of individuals and society, should be more
generally disseminated,” — Bathurst Free Press.
“ Society would be all the better if people only
gave a little of their reading time to such valuable
medical works as Dr. Paterson has in this instance
given to them.” — Mudgee Independent.
“ The author not only fully understands the
perils which beset youth and manhood, but he can
point out the remedies.” — Cobar and Louth
Herald.
“Dr. Paterson, M.A., M.D., F.R.C.S.E., is a
high authority on the matters he deals with.”—
Cocnamble Independent.
“The work is well written, and far away the
best we have read on the subject.”— Wilcannia
Times.
“The subject is treated in a manner which
shows the author thoroughly understands it.” —
Fielding Stab, N.Z.
i “ The book cannot be too widely circulated, and
should be in the hands of every person, male or
female.’’— Poverty Bay Independent, N.Z.
“Totally different from anything else of the
j kind which has come under our notice.” — Bruce
Herald, N. Z.
“It is a work which every young man should
read and lay to heart.” —Border Post.
157 Elizabeth Street, Hyde Park,
SYDNEY.
Consultation by Letter, SI.
ows
‘•EMBROCATION
SOLO
\
everywhere
đ
PHYSICAL HEALTH of WOMAN,
—BY—
ALEX.
A.M., M.D., F.R.C.S.
■
157 Elizabeth Street, Hyde Park, Sydney.
PRICE 2s. 6d.
A. 11 Booksellers.
LICHTNER & CO.,
SYDNEY : BRISBANE
318 GEORGE STREET 9 ELIZABETH STREET
PHOTOGRAPHIC
—STOCK—
IMPORTERS.
se.
\ :•
t
'/ nr
VII I tiA,>
i—«• *.
i
gr SEND for our new illustrated catalogue
—OF-
CAMERAS. LENSES, CHEMICALS. MAGIC LANTERNS,
And all Articles appertaining to PHOTOGRAPHY.
):( '
CHEAP AMATEUR OUTFITS.
Medical.
DhSPEER
31 YORK STREET, WYNYARD SQUARE, SYDNEY-
P.O. Box 920. This eminent specialist is a graduated
physician of Harwood University, U.S., registered by the
Governments-of N.S.W. and N.Z., and has devoted 10
years to the special study oft-MUONIC, NERVOUS, SKIN
and SPECIAL diseases o'f MEN and WOMEN. All apply-
ing to him .will recei-e his hottest opinion of their com-
plaints. No experimenting ;no mercury used. A pcsith e
cure guaranteed or forfeit £2OO. Mis vast experience
tells him that where there is no organic disease, and
nothing but an inorganic trouble, or, iit other words, a
conglomeration of symptoms producing a certain result,
there is no reason why it cannot be removed with the
proper remedies: therefore he guarantees. He cla ms to
be the most skilful and successful physician in N.S.W. in
his part icular specialit y, viz., the CHRONIC and SPECIAL
DISEASES of MEN 'and WOMEN. Examination and
advice free to all. Charges moderate. Office Hours-10
a.m. to 12 a.m.; 2 to 4 and 7 to 8 pm. Sunday, 10 to
11 a.m. only.
Nervous 33e"bility.
Consult Dr. Speer in all cases of NERVOUSNESS through
indiscretion, for his many years of practice with this
dreadful disease enables him to remove all traces of it and
to return the victims to full VIGOUR, HEALTH and
MANHOOD.
N.B.—TWENTY SHILLINGS is sufficient to send for
remedies necessary for the cure of NERVOUS DEBILITY.
DR. SPEER will forward, post free, at ss. per box, or
21s. for five boxes, the following celebrated pills:—
L—AMERICAN “ VITAL ” PI LLS, for nervous debility,
lost vitality, sexual weakness, errors, kc.
2. AMERICAN “PRIVATE” PILLS, for discharges,
contagious sores and blood diseases.
3. “FEMALE” PILLS for irregularities and obstruc-
tions.
4. -AMERICAN STOMACH, LIVER, and KIDNEY
PILLS, 2s. (id. per box.
d
HRUPP Qp'C-CTI
Chao
is
!/
id//
5£
ď
Ml
IP so,
DON’T MISS THIS!
What everyone says is bound to be true, and young
and old, rich and poorj physicians who recommend, and
patients who try
The Krupp Galvanic Chain Belt,
All agree in praising that most scientific of Electro
Therapeutical Appliances. For Rheumatism it is un-
rivalled. Lumbago at once succumbs to its power. The
Nervous are strengthened and the Debilitated restored to
pei feet health and vigour. In short, £ ) appliance is an
unfailing cure for all Nervous, Sexual, or Luronic Diseases,
and is GUARANTEED to ABSOLUTELY CURE, com-
pletely and lastingly, the following complaints:—
Dyspepsia, Neuralgia, Pains in the Back and Chest,
Lumbago, Catarrh, Rheumatism, Dumb Ague,
Nervous Debility, Paralysis, Kidney Complaint,
Spinal Disease, Female Weakness, Diseases of the
Liver, Impotence, Seminal Weakness, Diabetes,
Sciatica, Atrophy, Gout, Indigestion, Asthma, Piles,
Epilepsy Spermatorrhoea, Specks before the Eyes,
Excessive Heart Palpitation, Defective Memory.
An Unfailing Cure For Varicocele.
It is a PORTABLE BODY BATTERY, and contains
special appliances for both sexes; therefore, why waste
yoUr money and health by procuring and taking USELESS
DRUGS? Electricity, when properly applied, is acknow-
ledged hy all leading and unprejudiced physicians to be
| the only safe and radical cure for Nervous and Sexual
! Diseases, and the thousands of testimonials received by
the Krupp Belt Co. from leading personages throughout
Australasia prove the unquestionable curative properties
of Electricity as applied by theapplianceabovereferred to.
! Our confidence in this appliance is so complete, that
, we send the Belt out on trial, and guarantee it
Ito give perfect satisfaction. For full particulars as to
! terms, etc., send for our large illustrated treatise, free,
j in which these Belts are fully illustrated, the action of
I electricity on the nervous system explained, and a lot of
useful information on nervous and sexual diseases given.
This treatise also contains facsimile of testimonials received
from some of our clients who have tried our Belts. Ihe
originals of these testimonials produced on application.
tfgfcr The prices of the Krupp Galvanic Chain Belt and
i Suspensory are from £l.
Sole Inventor .... Caw. Krupp.
Business Manager . . A. W. Courtney.
Address all communioaUons to the
Krupp Galvanic Chain Belt Co.,
Box 647, G.P.0., Sydney, N.S.W.
Remember—The K.O. Chain Belt cures without medicine,
is easy to wear, is sent on approval, and the first cost is
the only cost.
JNDISFENSABLE JOB RADIES
AND ALL PERSONS
With a Delicate Skini
MOUSON’S
COCOA BUTTER SOAP
Cocoa Butter Soap is a real skin-beautifier, and a balm to
young and old alike.
MOUSON & CO., PERFUMERS & TOILET SOAP MANUFACTURERS,
FRANKFORT-ON-THE-MAINE.
LONDON: 82 & 83 lIAMBELL-ST., E.C. PARIS! 29 RUE radziwill-
Full guarantee for perfect purity is offered by the
sole Manufacturers, Mouson & Co.
JULIUS GOLDSCHMIDT & CO.,
231 CLARENCE-ST., SYDNEY,
SOLE AGENTS FOR AUSTRALASIA.
“ A Golden Shanty,”
i PRICE-ONE SHILLING. - ■


If out of sorts try Wolfe’s Schnapps.
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
Wolfe’s Schnapps, the purest spirit procurable.
Wolfe’s Schnapps—the ladies appreciate it.
The original genuine article—Wolfe's Schnapps.
An exhilarating cordial is Wolfe’s Schnapps.
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
Recommended by doctors—Wolfe’s Schnapps.
Wolfe’s Schnapps—for the liver and kidneys.
If your liver troubles you take Wolfe’s Schnapps.
If asked to drink, call for Wolfe’s Schnapps.
T7IREE BY POST for six penny Stamps, a
_M_ Medical Treatise by that eminent Trench
Hospital Physician and Parisian Specialist, Dr.
IiABONSKI, showing suffei’ers how they may
cure themselves of Nervous Debility, Lost Vitality,
&c., &c., without consulting a medical man. Ad-
dress : “Parisian,’’ p.O. Box 766, Sydney.
Government Advertisements.
Department of Public Works,
Sydney, July 16, 1890.
Tenders for public works and
supplies.
Eor Conditions, see Government* Gazette.
TENDERS for the Works, &c., specified below
will be received at this Department until 11 o’clock
a.m. on the dates mentioned.
WEDNESDAY, JULY 23.
Works, Nyngan-Oobar Railway
Plans, &c., can be'
seen at the office
of the Engineer-
in - Chief Rail-
way Construc-
tion Branch.
Manufacture, &c., of a Steel Bridge over Yass
River in Connection with the Tramway
Erection of Timber Bridge, witli hinged span, for
Belmore River, near Gladstone.
Additions, &e., Court-house, Barraba
Additions Court-house, Broken Hill
Erection of Post and Telegraph Office, Temora
Construction of a Channel to carry off flood waters
near Kellick Creek, Macleay River
Bridges, Nos. 2, 3 and 4, in Approaches to Nar-
randera Bridge
Bridge over Gilargambone Creek, road Coonamble
to Dubbo
Erection of Post and Telegraph Office, Hunter’s
Hill
Erection of Lodge, Centennial Park
Erection of Gates, Randwick-road, Centennial
Park
Erection of Engineer’s Residence, Pumping
Station, Lismore Water Works
Wharf, Bateman’s Bay, Erection
Additions, &c., Post and Telegraph Office, Wind-
sor.
Culvert over creek near Greendale, road Manly to
Pittwater
Bridge, Eulah Creek, road Narrabri to Eulah
Additions to Garrison Hospital, Victoria Bar*
racks
WEDNESDAY, JULY 30.
Works, Kiama-Nowra
Railway
{Plans, &c., can be seen
at the above office of
the Engineer-m-Chief
WEDNESDAY, AUGUST 6.
Additions, &c., Police Barracks, Lambton
Repairs, &c., Court-house and Lock-up, Hillston
Bridge over Deep Creek, road Condobolin tc
Wagga Wagga. _ (Fresh tenders.)
Alterations and dditions to Long Cove Bridge,
West Maitland
Construction of Swimming Bath, Cockatoo Island,
in connection with N.S.S. Vernon
Erection of Post and Telegraph Office, Kogarah
' (Fresh tenders.)
Bridge Belar Creek, road Nyngan to Canonbar
WEDNESDAY, AUGUST 20.
Bridge, Darling River at Wentworth —Contract
No. I— Manufacture, &c., Steel Lift Span on
Iron Piers. Contract No. 2—Erection of
Lift Span, &c., &c.
Finishing Trades, New Lands Office, Sydney.
Additions Post Office, Gosford
Erection of Police Buildings and Lockup, Uralla
Erection of Court and Watch-house, St. Albans.
Erection of Court and Watch-house, Robertson
Erection of Post and Telegraph-office, Wollongong
Compounding engines of and alterations to Dredge
Newcastle
Erection of Post-office, Moss Yale
Bridge over Deep Greek, road Raymond Terrace
to Stroud
Bridge over Stoney Creek, road Raymond Terrace
to Stroud
WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 3.
Bridge, Hunter River at Aberdeen-—Contract
No. I—Manufacture1 —Manufacture of Ironwork, &c. Time
extended. Contract No. 2—Erection of
Bridge.
WEDNESDAyToCTOBER 15.
Manufacture and Supply of 48-inch Wrought-
iron Water Pipes, special castings, &o. (Otters
may also be submitted for pipes of steel.) Con-
tract No. 72, Sydney Water Supply. - (Dupli-
cation of Pipe Line, Potts HUI to Sydney)
Manufacture and Supply of 48-inoh Cast-iron
Water Pipes, special castings, &o.—Contract
No. 73, Sydney Water Supply. (Duplication
of Pipe Line, Potts Hill to Sydney.)
In the event of tenderers not being prepared to
complete the above services within specified time
they may name a date for the completion, which
will be considered when the offers are being dealt
with,
BRUCE SMITH.
The Vengeance of Ruby Julia.
[ FOR THE BULLETIN.]
On the morning of 17th February, 1880,
the sun, so far as the inhabitants of Central Aus-
tralia were concerned, rose in a sullen, perfunctory
ifashion from behind the banks of thick clouds that
shaded the peaks of the M’Donnell Ranges. It
was hardly worth its while to shine for the benefit
of the little colony that had settled at the foot of
the chief peak of the range, distant, as the crow
flies, 780 miles from Palmerston at Port Darwin,
770 from Adelaide, 1500 from Cape Cuvier on the
west coast, and 1100 from Rockhampton in Queens-
land —almost in the centre of the continent. To
the south of this lonely spot lie the blue and
brackish waters of Lake Amadeus and numberless
mountain springs fall from the ranges, and in some
seasons gurgle musically, in others roar and leap
over ruby sand and bastard stream-tin until they
reach the plain—where they separate, to unite again
and form a network of watercourses for nearly
50 miles. At the time of our story these creeks
were outlined merely by chains of shallow pools,
and in some cases only by the deposits of mineral
salts that rose ghost-like on the sombre surfaces of
the creek-bed drift. Fill into the background a
dark, heavy range of mountains, barred and
bound with iron and diorite, a few small “blows ”
of a rotten granite formation, with infant sun-
rays of purple and mauve and gold struggling
painfully through the heavy clouds lying on the
eastern horizon, and the picture as seen and un-
appreciated for years by the settlers at Ruby
Drift is complete—but for one feature. At the
foot of the range, and built against an outcrop of
rock so that a natural back-wall was secured, is a
hut—the residence of the only white people for a
radius of 170 miles.
The scenery being in position, the “ leading
lady” makes her entrance from the hut. And
such a lady—a tall, gaunt being of any age from 30
to 40; a sinewy, .masculine figure with sexless
breasts, a small red nose, jutting out aggressively
from a thin white face, like a poppy drowning in
dusty milk, and hair naturally short and bristly.
Dressed iu perfectly indescribable costume, her
skirt fell limply to what would have been her
ankles if'her nether limbs, covered by a pair of
policeman’s trousers, had been possessed of any
shape. This lady was known as “Ruby Juba”
to the getters at the drift -partly on account of
her ned nose, partly owing to the fact that she
was the best digger and washer on the ranges.
On this particular date she does as she has done
for many years—draws a bucket of water from the
underground tank in front of the “hotel,” and
goes back into the building to make breakfast.
She had come to the; ranges from Bel tana in 78,
and the eight years of her life in the Ruby coun-
try—which, it would now appear, was not a ruby
country at all—had transformed her from a gawky
girl into a kind of female bunyip— nearly a man
and yet with an unmistakeable smack of the
female about her.
Later in the day a sag-headed man with red
hair, carrying a swag whose lightness showed
either the poverty or the laziness of its owner, was
toiling wearily over the week-watered slopes
which rose hard and threatening as a wall of
steel between him and the M'Donnell Hotel at
Ruby Drift. The sun w r as sinking ere the traveller
descended the last ridge and entered on the kan-
garoo-track leading through the burnt and stunted
salt-bush to the hotel. The unlicensed landlord
a short, fat man who always wore two suspenders
as a belt—looked at the stranger through the
smoke of a large clay pipe with all the super-
ciliousness he could command. Having heard the
traveller’s account of his journey, garnished with
various profanities condemnatory of his eyes and
the flies and the sun, he explained that he—the
man with the pipe and suspenders—had been
a copper-miner at Moonta, which place he
had left about a year previously to pro-
spect the alleged ruby country for an Ade-
laide syndicate which had purchased the rights
of running there from the disgusted first holders.
These last got certain stones in galore, but they
were zircons and inferior garnets, a fact that the
Adelaide syndicate had evidently not discovered
in 1880. The fat man went on to say that he had
four men under him, was the postmaster of a
monthly mail-service and the proprietor of a
shanty, thus paying of his “shifts” in
whisky, which with clothing formed the only cur-
rency of the quarter. The monthly mail took
down the bastard gems to civilisation on its return
trip and there the liability of the Ranges ended.
The sag-headed man had supper, and before he
went to sleep that night was duly installed as an
additional getter at tucker wages. He awoke late
next morning, for which piece of racklessness he
was magnanimously excused by Bob Swan, his em-
ployer, who set before him the ruins of a wild
turkey as breakfast, and then, giving him a shovel
and dish, pointed out a giant eucalyptus growing
at the bend in the creek, half a mile away, and
told him that under that tree he would find the
“ hold cousin.” The sag-headed man obeyed this
direction, and a few minutes later arrived at the
tree. As a matter of fact he did not know
whether the object of his search was a man or a
bird, and he looked enquiringly at a hole dug in
the creek. Suddenly from this toy-shaft there ap-
peared a white face surmounted by a bristling mop
of black hair.
The head asked, Where was you tied up last ? ”
and our traveller answered in a helplessly am-
biguous manner, “ Swan sent me to find the
hold cousin.”
The head spoke again : “ I’m her,”
. “Her?”
“Yes, I’m her,” repeated Julia, for by this time
she had hoisted herself from the wash-hole and
was standing on the surface with her skirts rolled
up half-way above her knees and the old police
pants showing large clay-stains on the legs thereof.
The sag-headed man gazed aghast at the picture.
“ Well,” said the hold cousin, “ my name’s Ruby
Julia; what’s yourn?”
“ Mine?” answered the new arrival. “ Those as
knows me well calls me Boofles; those as don’t
calls me Jim—Jim Simpson.”
“ And what are ye come here fur ?”
“To git.”
“ Well, git, then, and leave me alone.”
“But the boss told me to find you and start
work. ”
She of the Ruby evidently considered this ex-
planation satisfactory, for she motioned Boofles
into the hole in the drift and cried “ smoke-ho !”
And it was a real smoke-ho, for Julia produced a
pipe of workmanlike blackness and puffed away
stolidly at the remnants of a filling placed in the
bowl after breakfast that day.
They worked in spells until night stole on them,
the labour of digging and washing having been
diversified at irregular intervals by trips to the
hotel with tin vessels containing a mixture of
alleged rubies and sure garnets and zircons des-
tined to be picked over by the hands of the shanty-
keeper himself.
* * #
One day in the rainy season of ’B2 an ex-
traordinary baby, looking in every respect like a
wizened old man worn out with a life of toil and
money-grubbing, opened his eye* to the sombre
winter-scenery of the little world at Ruby Drift.
His mother was Ruby Julia, and his father?
Well, the sag-headed man had a stake in the
country.
The old youngster grew quickly in body, but
his mind, such as it was, had been seemingly
formed in embryo. He began to walk and talk
unconsciously, and, looking on everything as being
a natural result of something else, never seemed
to be surprised. If he improved he was insensible
to his improvement, had he retrogaded he could
not have known it, and so he assimilated—that is
the only word possible in his case—his information
imperturbably. At three he could swear fluently
and his vitiated taste despised water and clung
like a limpet to Booties’ whisky.
For the three years following the first cry of
their first-born, Julia and the sag-headed man
lived in a hut removed about 600 yards from the
shanty, and then a little red-nosed female—a
small edition of her mother—called the Uas6 boy
brother.
Of course the reader will say that this life was
immoral. What would you have? A parson
never set foot on the scene of our story, though if
he had it is extremely improbable that his services
would have been called into requisition, in this
case at least. Julia’s ideas of civilisation were
comprised in one hasty, careless glance, caught as
a child of 12 years at the township of Hergott
Springs, and there were no sdly notions of cou-
ventiona'ity about her. She was not a ■woman
only a female, and possessed as. little moral sense
as a kangaroo. Her life was and yet was nut in
unison with her surroundings. Like the gum-
clumps fringing the borders of the silted creek she
was primitive, unlike them she did not hold their
virgin purity. About this time Booties created'
the materials for this story by exercising the pre-
rogative of manhood-he" thrashed Julia with a
sapling. His body was steel, but in her hands it
was steel in the hands of the forger, for Julia was
as strong as Samson before Ms hair was shorn.
It came about in this way. They were working
as usual in a creek near their hut, when a dispute
arose, and the sag-headed man struck Julia with a
stick and felled her into a drift-hole. In a second
she had regained the surface, in another she had
wrenched the stick from his hand, and five minutes
later he was begging for mercy and bleeding
energetically through all the available rents—and
they were many—in his clothing.
Boofles had a brain, albeit a very dull
one. In a week he arrived, by some species of
inductive reasoning peculiar to himself, at the
conclusion that Julia could be best punished
through her first-born, and so this unnatural
father subjected the old-man child to numberless
nameless tortures.
Julia was defeated ; the instinct of motherhood
was strong in her and hereafter Boofles could kick
her without resistance so long as the weazened
piece of semi-humanity she called her boy escaped.
In the middle of ’B6 this ill-assorted couple and
their offspring left the Ranges, and two months
later reached Gawler, where Booties got work as a
farm hand, and for two years after they lived the
same old life—the male always beating the female,
the latter waiting with a dull, despairing sense of
injustice for the day that would avenge her in-
juries.
Julia, it may be said, had very strange ideas of
law. She believed that if she could only secure a
share of-her partner’s name the law would give
her a right to live. Since she had seen a railway
Julia had discovered that there was such a thing
as marriage. She knew that Boofles would marry
her some day, as she said to her nearest neighbour
—a woman who mangled for the Bishop—“ he
was alius doing foolish,” and she waited patiently
and took all the blows he aimed at her without
comment, never avoiding one, as that would have
angered him the more.
At last the day came. The sag-headed man in
a fit of drunken generosity took his bride to the
local registrar and she came back to their hut with
a new feeling—partly of new-born respectability
and partly of sorrow that her children’s names
were not also changed, and feeling that- she now
held a judicial claim to a life of peace.
“ Let the touch me again,” she said to the
long round rafters of their dwelling, “ and I’ll
bring the lor on ’im.”
. . . * » * • -
The moonlit January night at Gawler was
to the local resident who had a soul typical
of peace and rest. In Booties’ hut the new-
made Mrs. Simpson snored in a deep bass
tone on the nuptial couch, and in beds on
the-floor lay the two nameless children—the
boy with the body of five years and the face
of fifty acting as a pillow for his sister’s head.
Boofles hadyleft his wife at the conclusion of their
brief wedding-ceremony. He had been supple-
menting his good-humoured intoxication at various
public-houses, and now he reeled along the street
mad-drunk. “ She’s my lorful missus,” he solilo-
quised thickly, “ and I’ll knock out of her
yet.”
# * *
Two a.m. The dim light of a slush-lamp
fell on the face of Boofles’ bride and his mad eyes
glared down on her. She did not stir, and of the
three dwellers in the hut, but one—the old-man-
child—was awake. He looked at his father and
decided that mischief was abroad, ’ for Boofles
looked dangerous and carried a pick-handle. So
the boy rose and made for the door, as he had often
done before, to bring help to his mother. As he
did so the sag-headed man struck at him furiously
with the pick-handle ; the boy received the blow
on his shoulder and staergered, but quickly re-
covered himself and ran out of the humpy and
along the slumbering street like the wind.
The flame, of the slush-lamp quivered and
flickered and almost died and Boofles placed it on
a stool by the side of the bed. Julia still slept,
and her snoring maddened him. She was a devil,
he thought, and she was not sleeping but breath-
ing vengeance and violence on him and yelling in-
structions in his ear to the terrible crow that had
got inside his brain and was pecking at him with
short, sharp, vengeful strokes of its cruel beak.
He must kill her and then the crow would leave
him.
He lifted the pick-handle with both hands high
above his head and brought it down with all his
drunken might on the skull of his slumbering wife.
The light leaped up and died, then Booties fell
over her body, bathed as it was in her own blood,
and slumbered.
He was awakened—years after it seemed to him
—by a crowd headed by his son. A policeman
handcuffed and placed him in the outer room,
while the local doctor —a young fellow fresh from
student-work—bent over the woman. “It’s a
very bad case,” said he, and then, telling the
usual professional lie, he added, “ but I think we
may bring her round.”
# # *
Twelve hours had passed and Julia was
conscious.
“ Am I goin’ tor croak, Doc. ?” she said.
“ Not if .you keep the bandages right.”
“ And if I take ’em off I’ll peg out, eh ?”
He nodded.
“ Who’d take care of the kids if I do?”
“ The Government.”
“ The GuVment ? There wasn’t any Guv’ment
to take care o’ me when I was a gal. Go away a
bit and let Booties come in. 1 wanter speak
to ’im.”
So the medical man went out, and bymud-bye a
trooper pushed Booties into the bridal-chamber
and kept guard outside the closed door.
“ Yer married me yesterd'y, Jim,” she said,
with a voice that gradually became a. hoarse
screech, “an’last night yer mauled me with that
ther pick. The Doe. says I’ll live, but he’s all
out, and I’m glad of it. I’ve bin a good woman.
to yer for years, even if 1 wasn’t straight till last
night. Ye’ve knocked bits off me fer years back,
an’ I’ve stud it sooner than let yer kick that pore-
kid with the coffin in is face. The doc. says I’ll
die if I take off this kaliker,” touching the ban-
dages on the brow, where already rested Death’s
awful shadow, “an' I’m goin’ to send yer to the
callers. The kids ’nil be all right—Guv’ment will
look to ’em. I hate yer, Jim, ye’ve made me do
it, and I’ll take yer out of this here world with
me.”
With the last mad effort of departing life, she
tore off the bandages from her head, exposing her
terrible wound. In four hours she was dead.
# # #
Booties did not hang, and is now serving
a life-sentence in the Adelaide stockade, but
Julia’s vengeance is none the less severe for
being doled out with prison rations. “Guv’-
ment” was only called on to take, care of
one child - the little girl. The.old boy “ with the
coffin in his face ” proved the truth of Ruby Julia's
almost prophetic words, for the sight left his aged
eyes and he was enclosed in a pauper shell before
the sexton had time to fill in his mother’s grave.
RANDOLPH BEDFORD.
FREETRADE OR PROTECTION.
Some vote Protection, some Freefcrade,
As best for this young country’s weal.
But ask the youth or blushing maid,
And each will answer— Pemell’s-Meal I
As best, because it has been tried,
There’s nothing half so good beside.
His Golden Meal is what I mean,
’Tis good and pure and cheap, I wean.
CORRESPONDENCE
“ M.M.”: Let us have shorthand used in all the
Courts without any more nonsense... “Snooks”: You
would have sent your verses to Alfred Tennyson by last
mail “ only you had to help your wife to catch a fowl!”
Indeed. We would have published them but hadn’t time,
as we were busy writing to Queen Victoria “Aus-
tralis”,: The Bulletin materialistically endeavours to
combat popular ideas of supernatural interference in such
matters. Thanks, nevertheless “ Mildura ” : The hair-
pin who looks like a buck-rat is a startling and wholly
uncalled-for phenomenon which we shall aid you to sup-
press— “Kangaroo Ground”: Notwithstanding the
eucalyptine odours exhaled by your MS. —well, in a word,
your story smells like something that it isn’t “Jim-
Jams”: Please give up writing with a cork-screw....
“ D.” : Great inspiration :
• “ Breathes there a man with soul so dead
Who never to himself has said,
- ‘ Let’s knock these English on the head ’?”
.... “ J.” : Considered as a Greek word “ I-re-nay,” when
Anglicised “ I-reen” “ A.R.” (Hay): In Australia such
threats are unnecessary. The man is a hot-blooded
Italian, however, and has been villainously treated. Go
on and prosper “Bessie F.G.” : Yes, if acceptable
“Ichabod”: We read your verses, and are now slowly
recovering.-... “A Nation’s Birth”: Conception better
than delivery; last two verses very feeble. . “W.J.H.”
(Ballarat): Thanks. One used..“ Nautical” : Next week..
“L.M.N.H.”: You ask for a large cheque ; only the grave
will check the poet w’ho makes “ Russel ” rhyme with
“ novel.” “ T. Freeman ” : Not without merit, but after
Scott a long way, and even he, as a poet, was monotonous
at times “Job”: Your cricketing verses have one
merit: they harmonise beautifully with the Australians’
bad 1uck....“ Australian ”: You are a bad judge and a
bogus Australian into the bargain. The company is not a
splendid one by any means ; B. and B.’s company simply
distance it. Politics has nothing to do with the matter ;
The Bulletin, sometimes mistaken, usually says what the
other papers have not the honesty to print “An Old
Hand”: We have mislaid your address and would like to
“Wagga”: The Bulletin doesn’t want to receive any
more information alleged to have been obtained from an
accused man in a prison-cell through the medium of a
Christian clergyman. The police are not permitted to
ask leading questions of an accused, and everything w'hich
passes between a clergyman and a man in gaol should be
inviolably sacred. It is to be hoped that the Comptroller-
General of New South Wales Prisons will see' to this
matter at once, as the trial of the man in
question has been seriously prejudiced by the
appearance of such statements in the press.
“Scotty the W.”: Next week, very likely.. ..
write ,you “Macropus”: Will consider.... “ J.H.”?
Dealing with a paper’s sneer at The Bulletin for making
occasional use of the term “ colony,” it may be rejoined
that though The Bulletin may sometimes (inadvertently)
use the word- still in general currency—it substituted in
its columns “ state” or “ province ” for “colony,” at least
years before its critic saw the light. .. “ H.S.P.Mc.": The
first six verses are good ; the next two are silly; the
eighth is strong, and the concluding lines most lame and
impotent..,.“A.J.B.”: “Your “original, strictly so,”
verses are in W.P.B “E.J.8.” (Q.): Will read
your story....“P.C.J.”: If they like to advertise
that he was a German philosopher that’s their look-0ut.....
“C.H.E.” (Melb.): Held over. [Also many other com-
munications.] *■ , .
The M Auliffe party accuse Slavin, described as
being “fat as an ox,” of trying to avoid a meeting with
big Joe, It is peculiar that the two greatest flst-flghtera
in the world, Sullivan and Slavin, should be accused of
obesity.
The Yale University (U.S.) crew beat the
Atalanta’s by eight lengths, despite the breaking of his
oar by their stroke who relieved the boat of his useless
weight by jumping into the river. If our memory serves
an Oxford man once performed a similar feat.
I he Social Gimlet Society will one of those days
drop down on to the smoke-concerts given by some of
t he Sydney sailing and cricket clubs, where the ditties are
really ultra blue and sultry. The writer has seen George
Ley bourne marched off the stage by two policemen for
bis exceeding giddiness, and has heard Coburn come out
with the ditties which procured his temporary banishment
from the London ’alls, but lie is bound to say that the
songs sung by some of the respectable Sydney amateurs
give all bands up to date a stone and a beating. However
• hey are warbled in private and an Australian’s house is
his castle.
IMMENSE FAT WOMAN,
At Mildura, Victoria, the other day, a woman
seen to step off the scale weighing 413 pounds,
and she was raised without irrigation. A long,
.pinchbatik skeleton, raising his hat, said “Pardon
me, madam, but where did you get that fat?”
“Not from irrigation,'’ she replied, “but from
drinking that famous St. Louis Lager Beer, the
purest beer in the world,”


Clarke’s “Pyramid” Nursery Lamp Food-Warmers
P Latent pvrmWS^^
c ooo WAHME.P
□
REG?
BcSS
9124-1
ARETHeWffi
UGHISSIji
FOR thesM||
BBSEKss
9HOURS
|IM©E
M
W> «
mow mmm
TTnTffrrfr-'.. fmwmaifflßaiW
'M Mi
or
Si/
mmmmQS
NEW PATTERN
Tncujdino BKAK"
“PYRAMID” Immi
and ReoisTEßEt
Pannikin By this
invention any liquid
food can be poured
out or drunk, with-
out scum or grease-
passing through the
spout, and prevents
spilling when poured
into a Feeding Bottle
so unavoidable with
all other Pannikins
These Pannikins
will fit all the old
“Pyramid” Nursery
Lamps and can
be purchased
separately
Id Fireproof
Plaster
Casio?
with
Single Wickb
in Boxe.'
jontaming 8 Bights
BTJEN
9 Hours
each.
PYRAMID’
LIGHT
Tltf 01
Blßa
TH E
burclaR 5
Horror
With DOUBLE Wicks,
m Boxes containing 8
Lights and Glass BURN
g Hours each Burn
(0 Hours with Single
Wicks. These are smaller
than “ Fairy" Lights,
consequently less expen-
sive. and will burn in
any of the ‘Fairy’’ or
"Fairy Pyramid” Lamps
‘FAIRY PYRAMID " LIGHT
1
In Glass
with
Double
Wicks
(n Boxes
containing
6 Lights,
BURN
|Q Hours
each
‘FAIRY LIGHT.’
TheQu
OF
EEN
'
SINGLE Wick in boxes
containing g Lights and
Glass. BURN 10 Hours.
These are smaller than
Fairy " Lights, conse-
quently less expensive,
and will burn in any ol
the "Fairy” or “Fairy
pyramid" Lamps.
" FAIRY-PYRAMID " LIGHT
gvourit
d
OLD SHAPE
PANNIKIH
NEW
SHAPE
ANNIKIN
K : '
N.B -AD Clarke’s Lights are warranted free from Paraffin, or other dangerous material.
FAR, FAR AND AWAY THE BEST.
Solcl toy a.ll tlie
leading Retail
louses.
Wholesale Agents for Australasia :
FRANCIS FORREST & CO., 484 Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
Says Bill Nye
I learned with great sorrow this spring that the hotel
at Wallula had been burned. I stopped there once and
suffered all of one night. I remember especially the other
occupants of the room. They had not registered, but
they were there. They were not transients and thej did
not have to register. A friend of mine, who was a good
man, also stopped there. He could not sleep, so he put
in the night killing insects. In the morning the chainber-
maid found on the wall, pinned up like a motto, these
words, constructed of deceased bedbugs:
THIS INDEED IS HELL.
He was a good man, but he was thoroughly sincere.
He was what you might call an outspoken man, and said
what he thought at all times. He was an eccentric man
also. An Englishman once asked him about our Con-
stitution. “I am told,” said he, “ that God is not in youi
Constitution.” “ No,” said this plain man, he is not m
it.” It was slangy,.but expressive.
Morgan and Rafferty live down South, and
until lately Morgan owned a . sharp-backed,
ravenous-looking brute called, purely out of com-
pliment to its master, a horse. At the lull or last
moon this quadruped evinced a sudden desire to
eat its owner. Morgan—who is m a chronic state
of hiccough—concluded that the horse must belli,
and on the strength of something he had read in
an agricultural paper, administered a pint ot
turps to the suffering moke. On receipt of this
alarming dose, the poor crock wildly shook its
flowing mane, wiped its forefeet on its master s
waistcoat, and then, prancing and curvetting
with an energy it had never displayed while
drawing Morgan’s cart, turned its toes to the loft,
and with a long-drawn sigh of relief “ pegged out.
Now Rafferty also possessed a noble animal, m
personal appearance and disposition very similar
to Morgan’s deceased horse. Last week tins
spirited barb snatched Rafferty’s cabbage-tree hat
from off his head, and before the astonished
owner had recovered himself, all he could see ot
his hat was a large lump in the equine resophagus
slowly descending towards stomach. Alter
disgorging the hat-band, the animal s conduct be-
came so spirited that Rafferty resolved to tone
him down, and, knowing that Morgan had
physicked his horse, enquired the nature ot the
prescription. “ I gev ’im a pint o' turps, laconi-
cally replied Morgan. ... Rafferty bought a
pint of turps. . . . Rafferty arrived m haste
at Morgan’s next day, and after rattling the
latter’s bones with a large twig of red gum and
acquainting him with the fact that his steed had
passed away, asked him if he didn’t tell him that
he gave his horse a “ point o’ tur-r-ps. * es,
feebly retorted the injured Morgan, but yer
didn’t wait to let me tell yer that e died.
In and around Brisbane there is a little
colony of natives of the Principality, who look
upon Sir Samuel Griffith as a sort of tropical
Prince of Wales; and a veritable Prince of Wales
he is, but with less than Tummy’s width of waist-
band and more than Tummy’s physical and moral
altitude. But Gr ffith, Q.C., is also leader of the
Brisbane “baw,” and as such it is delightful to
Many in and out of the city will be pleased to
know that Cheelsian and Co., photographers in
the Sydney Arcade, have reduced their charges
for photographs. Cabinets now 15s. per dozen.
ALWAYS AHEAD.
With it none other can compare,
None other dare compete,
For Pembu/s Flocb is everywhere
Known to be good and sweet.
Reliable Watch Repairs. Dahms & Cov; King-st. Arcade
hear him arguing a demurrah or a rule nisi . His
“No, y’onnaw,” “yes, y’onnaw” are quite as
good as an English barrister’s ‘ m lud. Bris-
bane he pronounces Brisbayne; Melbourne is
Melbawne ; and any word smelling of slang
or vulgarity he couldn’t pronounce at all.
In all he does he is fastidious. He will not use
his brother barristers’ room to robe or disrobe in,
but (as his chambers are only a little way from
the temple of justice) prefers to come into court
in wig and gown fully panoplied like Minerva out
Jove’s skull. His return from court to his offices
on a “function” day in gorgeous wig and
shimmering silk is a sight dear to loafers and lar-
rikins, He rides, too, with as much elegance and
hauteur as he does everything else. It is worth
waiting opposite his rooms in Adelaide-street,
Brisbane, of an evening to see him, when .he
daily harvest of fees has been gathered in, mount
his horse with all the aplomb of an orderly officer on
review-day. Apparently heis never happy but when
posing. Politically, he is just now posing as the
coming Messiah of Queensland— the one man who
can find out where the times are out of joint, and
knows the way to set them right. But he has
tried his hand at the business before and tailed ;
leaving behind him a yawning deficit and some
political railways to construct. As a Minister
there is no working with him. Like the I urk, he
bears no brother near the throne. Should he get
back to power now, it would be agam the one-
man Ministry” of three years ago. Besides him-
self there are only two men of real mark on his
\y. 0. Hodgkinson, whose sarcastic
tongue somewhat discounts his usefulness on
both sides of the House, and the Gympie
lawyer, “Wide Bay Tozer,” so nick-named
as much on account of the capacity ot his
jawbone as the title of his electorate. 1 hough an
accomplished lawyer, and mentally and tempera-
mentally admirably fitted to take the first place
on the judicial bench, Griffith’s claim to states-
manship will be found on analysis to be ot the
slightest. He can draft a Bill as no other man in
Queensland can, but in looking through and
around a large question of polity, and, abo\ e all,
in facing and grappling with a crisis, he ranks
degrees below M‘llwraith. Neither is he an
orator as Macrossan is. When he ana the latter
returned from the Melbourne Federation Con-
ference he told an interviewer that Macrossan
had made a most able and eloquent speech,
but that he (Sir Sam) had not gone to the Gonter-
ence as to a debating society or elocution class,
which was for him a rather naive admission that
it was a case of the grapes being sour. The present
Queensland Ministry are, it may be allowed, en-
deavouring to enact the play of Hamlet with the
part of the prince left out. Still, if M Ilwraith
does not utterly break away from the party he has
created, though an appeal to the country should
be the outcome of the present session, there can be
little doubt that the cry of “Griffith or No
Griffith” would be promptly answered, Not for
Cadwallader and all his goats!”
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
Reliable Watch Repairs. Dahms & Co., King-st. Arcade.
Charlemont and Co., photographers to the
Governor, Royal Arcade, have moderated their
charges for photographs, with a view of meeting
every one. Cabinets now 15s. per dozen.
The United States is a nation of traders. Two-
thirds of the business men of the Republic use
Estkubhook’s “Falcon ” Pen. Samples free at
all Stationers.
The popular liquor—Wolfe’s Schnapps.
Rosa, of Melbourne, remarks that nothing
tangible was done for the London unemployed
till they looted the West End shops. He might
also have said that Gladstone never really heard
the Irish cry until the dynamite exploded, inis
is very treasonable, but beastly true.
Wolfe’s Schnapps will do you no harm,
K
cl
•Q
H-
M
O
u
T
/Uents .
DELISSAs. PHILLIPS
3&t5 Barmck Street.
“T.M.T.
** Home for the Aged Poor,
“ Parkfield-avenue, Birkenhead.
“The Little Sisters of the Poor have much
pleasure in bearing their testimony as to the
efficacy of Allcock’s Porous Plasters. They have
seen great benefit derived from them on account
of the relief they so quickly give the sufferer.
They find them a yery soothing remedy for all
sorts of pains.— Dec. 24, 1888.”
The Rev. Mabk Guy Peabse says:—"l find
them a very breastplate against colds and coughs.”
Mrs. Henby Ward Beecheb (widow of the
celebrated preacher) says I have found them
a genuine relief for most of the aches and pains
which flesh is heir to.” .
Geoeoe Agustus Saba says, referring to an
attack of bronchitis and asthma he had:—“One
on the chest and another between the shoulder
blades soon set me right again.”
A Marvellous Remedy.
The approved External Remedy of the age.
AL.L.COCIUS POROUS PLASTERS.
Lumbago, Sciatica, Rheumatism, Bronchitis,
Asthma, and all affections of the throat and
lungs ; also in Pains, Sprains, and Strains of
every description, and of great efficacy in INDl-
gestion, if worn over the right side of the pit of
the stomach, changing them every ten days.
A Word of Caution.
When you ask for a Porous Plaster, see you get
ALLCOCK’S ; LET NO EXPLANATION OB SOLICITATION
INDUCE YOU TO ACCEPT A SUBSTITUTE.
Sold by all Chemists, in various sizes, from
to 2216.
Companies.
The British and New South Wales Investment
and Financial to., limited.
Incorporated under the Companies’ Act, 1874.
Capital, £250,000,
Sydney Office: 246 PITT STREET.
T)ILLS DISCOUNTED and Immediate Advances granted
O Daily. Country communications promptly attended
to. The following Rates of Interest are allowed for Fixed
Deposits
8 Years
12 Months
6 Months
3 Months
10 per cent.
9 per cent.
8 per cent.
7 per cent.
With a Guaranteed Bonus on Renewals of Twelve Months
and over.
By order of the Board.
W. M‘DONALD, Manager.
Cities’ Life Assurance Company,
LIMITED.
Capital 7.7 X 200.000.
Head Office:
21 Castlereagh Sydney,
With Branches and Agencies throughout the Colonies.
ZKTe-w
There we;
Business x
•c Issue*! 10,557 Policies
1887
1888 „ „ 34,«84
1880 „ „ 57,333 „
These figures show the wonderful progress of the
Company and the high esteem placed upon its
liberal dealings by the public.
CLAIMS PAID
Immediately on Proof of Death
JAMES P. GARY AN, \ Managing Director.
WM. ALEX. SMITH, ( Secretary.
PROBLEM OF TO-DAY -WHERE CAN WE GET GOOD
BOOTS’—SOLVED AT LAST.
E. FRENCH
{The French of years ago)
Can supply Residents here with Boots better made than
ever. Boots that must wear well and give satisfaction.
Send your orders then to 82 Oxford Street, and be sure
to enclose Sizes and Remittance, when your parcel will be
sent at once by Post, Rail, or Steamer.
Notice Prices for Boots that look well, wear well
and fit well.
Children’s Elastic-sides, 2/-, 2/11, 3/6, 4/-, 4/6, etc. \ Best
Men’s & Youths’ ditto, 5/6, 6/-, 6/6, 7/6, 8/6, etc. / Boots
Men’s & Boys’ Bluchers, 2/11, 4/-, 5/-, 6/-, best ever made.
A Line of Stylish Laced Boots for Best Wear
(Boys’, Youths’ and Men’s Sizes).
Kfp ENGLISH BOOTS for LADIES, CHILDREN, etc.,
Sent as ordered. Lowest Price.
Satisfaction given or Money Returned.
Note the Address:
ECLIPSE BOOT CO.,
82 Oxford Street, SVI>\EY.
E. French, Manager.


Wolfe’s Schnapps has no rival.
'
m.
m
im
ii
m
Jmm
m
sp*
ď
Shifting & Scribbler.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
Brumbietown was purely a pastoral town-
ship. All its interest centred in stock and
country. If you were in no way connected with
either you had to be contented with a back seat.
Ihe pert commercial-travellers grew subdued and
retiring when business brought them to Brumbie-
town, and even racing-men were only tolerated on
account of their connection with horseflesh. In
the two leading hotels, resident squatters and
station-managers ruled the roast, whilst their
myrmidons aped them in their absence. In the
two inferior pubs, the shearer, the stockman and
the boundary-rider were supreme, and their yarns
were listened to with the respect due to talent. It
need scarcely be said that Brumbietown possessed
all the usual and natural appendages of a bush
town. I here was, of course, the doctor, who was
such a. clever man when he wasn’t drunk. There were
at least three storekeepers, who combined to live
and let live by keeping prices up ; and there was a
lawyer who was as gifted as the doctor—“ only
for the drink. ” Add to these the usual Govern-
Bient officials, saddler, blacksmith, carriers’ wives,
&c., and you have the population There was no
police-magistrate and no newspaper-man, and,
strange to say, both these long-felt wants were
supplied at the beginning of our story; in fact
but for the combined advent of the two there
would be no story to tell.
* # *
At about the same time that the Govern-
ment came to the conclusion that two Justices
of the -Peace were insufficient for the wants
of the growing population about Brumbietown, an
aspiring compositor who had made a small
rise discovered that a certain fortune lay in
the future support to be accorded to the Brcm-
bietown Star and Wattleshire Advertiser.
Lobbs coach then, on a certain day, dumped
down at Brumbietown the P.M., a hot-tem-
pered old fossil named Lisle, who was always
kept in hand for outside places where he
could do very little harm, and the spirit of the
x ress, in the person of Mr. J, Forman.
Lisle was, and always had been, one of those
uo-account men who pass the whole of their exist-
ence in more or less temporary Government bil-
lets—inevitably “ putting their feet into it ” when
possible ; kept in small positions by some un-
fathomable influence, and, of course, rumoured to
be of good family. Unfortunately, for him his
unknown influence was only good with one party,
and when their opponents were in power he felt
the bitter blast of obscurity. At present his
friends were up in the saddle, and Brumbietown
being in want of aP.M., he had been sent there
to get rid of him. Forman was a steady fellow,
with good business instincts and a knowledge of
ms trade ; he had some misgivings about his
literary ability, but trusted to common-sense and
good luck to pull through.
Whether the advent of that mighty lever, the
Press, was the baneful cause of it or not, from the
date of the first issue of the Star, there were two
hostile camps in the forraerly-.united little com-
munity. Lisle had snubbed “ the infernal news-
paper-man” on his way up, so they were not
cousins. ’ The lawyer really did know some
law when he was sober, while the P.M. didn’t
know a scrap either drunk or sober, so those two
fell out. IS aturally, sides were at once taken, and
before the third number of the Stab had well seen
the light, open war was declared. Whilst this
was the unsatisfactory state of things in the town,
the surrounding country was agitated by the news
that a feud of great bitterness had broken out
between two of the principal stations, so that the
demon of discord had apparently taken possession
of the whole district.
At this time there appeared in the town a
dilapidated traveller, in the state popularly known
as stone-broke. Amongst many other shifts and
dodges he could “pick up stamps’’and write a
little, and to his own intense astonishment found
himself at once installed not on the staff—but as
the staff of the Brumbietown Star, Celebrating
his instalment by one wild, joyous burst of revelry
by night and day, he then buckled to, and under
the watchful eye of Forman promised to develope
into a perfect treasure. His name was Robinson,
he was a young man, and had evidently been well
educated. Into the police-magistrate feud he
ffung himself with an ardour that made Forman
tremble, but, assisted by the lawyer, who for a time
kept preternaturally sober, they safely weathered
the libel law, and made Lisle and the opposition
pastoralist faction gnash their teeth with rage.
Ihe most cherished traditions of Brumbietown
were set at naught. The “ pestilent rag ” agitated
for more commonage to be declared, then for more
areas to be thrown open for selection. It caused
a rush of selectors by its articles on the suitability
of the surrounding land for dairy-farms ; and the
staff sent long letters to the metropolitan papers,
which, although cut down to a “stick,” were
headed‘‘Brumbietown,”and served to advertise
the district as suitable for selection.
It was evident that this sort of thing would have
to be put a stop to or the town and the surround-
ing country would go to the devil. It was pro-
posed to establish an opposition paper, but as that
would evidently prove a loss, the idea was dis-
missed. Then, aided and abetted by the P.M.,
whose blunders and favouritism had been ruth-
lessly exposed in the Star, the leader of the
squatting party, who had suffered severely from
the selecting rush, laid a deep scheme to annihilate
‘the staff.” Robinson, who, under the excitement
of battle, and out of gratitude to his new friend
Forman, had kept wonderfully straight, was fond
of a good horse. He had made friends with the
manager of a station about ten miles from the
town, who was one of the parties to the feud
before spoken of, and from Saturday to Mon-
day he usually stayed with the manager.
One Monday forenoon the staff was touch-
ing up a leader which he had thought
out on his way back in the early morning,
and which he calculated would make the other
side go and hang themselves with their own belts,
when he was astonished by the entry of the local
policeman who arrested him on a charge of horse-
stealing. Seeing that the affair was regular enough,
however astounding, the Staff had nothing to do
but submit, and proceeded with his captor to the
police court. The Bench was sitting—all, strange
to say, with the exception of one, being opposition
• ’ s-R The Staff was charged With taking and using.
U T tent to sfcea l> a ff 1- ey horse the property
of W. J. Seacombe, of Willy Nilly station. The
accused denied it ; the horse was one he had
ridden in from his friend’s station. At least, he
said so on seeing it, but although it certainly
appeared to be the same horse, it had the Willy
IS illy bx-and on it. He had come in early and left
the horse as usual at the stable of the Post-office
Hotel, to be taken back by one of the station
hands, according to the ostler’s evidence, and what
inferaalwitohcmfti had been and changed it into a
Willy Nxlly horse ?
By this time the lawyer had arrived, and was
defying the bench to proceed with the case; prov-
ing to them that they could have summoned his
client for illegally using, but that issuing a
warrant for horse-stealing was illegal, and that
they wouJd have to pay heavy damages— to all of
which the Bench turned a deaf ear. Seacombe’s
overseer swore to the horse, so did the ostler.
■Robinson himself admitted that he had ridden a
grey horse over, but at the moment he had no
evidence to offer in defence. The Bench had an
earnest discussion, then the friendly J.P. and one
of the opposition left the Court, evidently differing
from the conclusion arrived at by the others. Old
Lisle, as chairman, to the blank astonishment of
everybody, committed the prisoner for trial on a
charge of horse-stealing, bail being refused.
The lawyer retired foaming to the nearest pub.,
where he held forth for two hours on the unalien-
able rights of British subjects and the glorious
palladium of British law.
Borman and one of the leading storekeepers dis-
patched a joint telegram to the member for the
district calling on him to raise Cain, the prose-
cuting party retired to lunch, and the Staff was
locked up. The scheme was a fairly good one ;
even though the Staff could not be convicted of
horse-stealing at his trial, ho would have to wait
in prison for it, and as there was no convenience
for keeping prisoners in the local lock-up, he wou’d
bo dispatched to the nearest town. Then they
would have Forman alone and crush him.
That night, unfortunately for the plan, old Lisle
drank champagne and talked. He asserted several
times to residents in the town that he would shift
the blank-blank scribbler if he lost his billet for it.
His friends got him to bed, but what he said was
remembered. The manager of the station where
Robinson had stopped could not remember seeing
him actually start, but he swore that to the best
of his belief ho rode a grey horse belonging to the
station identical in appearance with the Willy
Nilly horse, but, of course, with a different brand.
The member eagerly commenced to raise a very
■storm in head-quarters, and altogether the oppo i-
tion felt they had gone too far. Instructions were
received from the department to release Robinson
on bail, and the lawyer took a shower-bath every
half-hour to sober himself up.
Old Lisle sat on the bench with bloodshot eyes,
glaring at the accused when he appeared with his
two friends to sign the bail-bonds.
*’ Stop a minute ! : ’ said Robinson, “ I must sign
in my own name. Everyone knows that Robinson
is not my name—it’s Lisle, the same as that man
who has just tried to make a convict of me. I
have the misfortune to be his sou.’’
“You villain! you liar!” gasped the old man.
“My son ran away long ago and died.”
“ He ran away at fourteen : ran away from your
cruelty, and has been knocking about the work!
ever since ; but he’s not dead, for he’s here.”- The
young man unbuttoned his wristband and bared
his wrist, showing a white scar almost encircling
it. “Look here,”- he went on, amidst an awed
silence,_ “Do you remember, just a year after my
mother’s death, tying me up with a piece of
fencing-wire, to give me a flogging, while I
struggled so that I cut my wrist to the bone ?
There’s the mark, you affectionate father.”
The old man sa'd nothing. Everyone who
looked at him could see the truth of what they
had heard in his face. He gasped for breath, and
the doctor, who was in court, ran to him. “ He’s
got a fit,” he said, as they carried him out, and it
was one he never rallied from, for he died without
recovering consciousness next morning.
The affair was hushed up, for although Forman
fought hard to induce young Lisle to prosecute for
conspiracy, he refused. The explanation was
simple enough : noticing the similarity of the two
horses, the Willy-Nilly overseer paid a tracker to
ndein immediately after Lisle, change horses un-
observed in the stable-yard, and ride back on
Lisle’s mount. Information was then at once
laid and the arrest followed.
The Bkumbietown Stab and Wattleshire
Advertiser is now a flourishing paper and the two
partners have, for a wonder, made money.
D.C.
The H amilton Spectator devotes half a
column of matter to speculating why Dan O’Connor
makes bulls. Daniel was originally in the butcher-
ing, and makes the bulls out of remorse for having
killed the calves.
Amusement of a profitable nature. Ladies,
make your own dresses by procuring one of our
dress stands ; they are indispensable for altering,
trimming, and re-arranging dresses. They are, in
fact, a.household necessity. We make ihem to
fold up so as to go in trunks. Write for parti-
culars to Eastway Brothers, Dress Stand Makes.r
111 George-street, Sydney.
Dear Bulletin, —Many years ago. whilst
digging on the N.Z. West Coast, 1 chanted to be
mates with a litt’e red-headed Irishman, nick-
named ‘‘The Quaker” from his habit of “ theej
ing and “ thouing.” For instance, he would sa'
“ Friend, wilt thou obleegc me wid a loight.” II
had been some time in Philadelphia, and had
there acquired the habit. Well, the “ bhoys
tyere going to have a big night. The Hibernia’. 1 ,
Society were holding a banquet, and “The Quaker
was in a terrible state, for not having joined the
society he was debarred from attending. “Be
gob, friend, ’ said he to me, “if I only had a
green sash I d try me luck.” “ How "do you
mean ?’ said I. “ Why, if I marched up to the
dhure, bquld-loike, wid a green sash on, mtbbe
they d iiivcr ask me if I was a mimber or not.”
1 suddenly remembered that I bad a Forester's
sasli in my box, and the thought struck me to
play a joke on " The Quaker." So, going to tin-
box, I produced the sash arid asked “ how will this
do?’ “Friend,” said lie, “thou hast a sash,’
looking at it admiringly, “ Yes, and if it's any
use to you you can wear it,” I replied—At the
saiue time placing it round his neck. It was of
bright green, and his eyes lighted up with pride.
“But, friend,” he said, catching sight of the gold
letters, A.U.F., upon it, “ what do these mean?”
I his was a poser, and I paused a moment to con-
sider ere replying. But a happy thought came,
and drawing him close to me 1 said mysteriously,
“ Don't you know?” “Xay, friend.” “Whisper,”
said I ‘‘ Amerienn- Order of Fenians.'' He drew
back-, looked hard at me, and then silently grasped
my hand. He knew I had been in America and
never doubted for a moment that I was one of
the Order. He went off to the banquet in high
spirits, and I followed at a distance. At the door
he was stopped, but drawing one of the members
aside a wlr'spered conversation took place, “The
Quaker” frequently tapping the sash with his
hands, and to my surprise, he was allowed to walk
boldly into the hall. He told me next day that he
was the hero of the night, and to this day he be-
lieves in the American “Order- of Fenians.” and
that I am one of them.— Buster.


Great Medical Reform!
Consult (FREE) HERR RASSJMUSSEN, the Celebrated Danish Herbalist,
Expert Specialist in all Private Complaints, Barrenness and Nervous Diseases.
: DENMARK
'*
%
'4
%
%
'I
t
\
%
%
m, fy
PI
00
đ
V
d
#1
f
A
/
'o*
msm
V
Vitality
Heims
A Guaranteed Cure
for
Nervous Debility and
Lost Vitality.
. 225. 6d. per Course.
Smaller Box ss. Cd.
Only Herbalist in Australia ,
That has received “Gold Medal” for Great Cures Performed, and is Honourably Mentioned L in the History of New out aes
for Great Herbal Discoveries ; and who can prove that he has CURED OVER 20,000 PAT
Sole Proprietor and Discoverer of the Celebrated
DENMARK VITALITY PILLS, Registered,
Which have been the means of Curing so many Thousands of Sufferers from Nervous Debility, Lost Vitality, Eirois, Weakness, D'- p y
Impure Blood. 225. Od. per Course ; Smaller Box, os. 6d,
G-enuine Testimozxiali
To HERR RASSMUSSEN.—Dear Sir, —This is to certify that you
cured me of a very serious blood disease, after many doctors had
failed.—JOHN REYNOLDS, Chappel-street, Leichhardt, Sydney.
To HERR RASSMUSSEN, the celebrated Danish Herbalist.—Dear
Benefactor, —I have much pleasure to inform the public that you
cured my wife of an internal complaint of a very serious nature, after
all the doctors had given her up.—ARCHIBALD MACFARLANE,
Eden Cottage, Barney-street, Armidale.
To HERR KASSM USSEN, Specialist in Nervous Diseases. Dear
Sir, —I hereby thank you for the great cure you performed on me for
a very complicated nervous affection, and I shall always recommend
you to sufferers from Nervous Debility.—PHlLLlP STEAD, 54 Parra-
matta-road, Annandale, Sydney.
To HERR RASSMUSSEN, Danish Herbalist.—Dear Sir and Bene-
factor, —lt gives me great pleasure to testify to your wonderful skill
in the treatment of Disease. You cured me of a terrible complaint
after the doctors gave me up, and although it is four years since, I am
as well as ever. I shall recommend you to all. —Yours, gratefully, A.
RAMSDEN, Great Western Coffee Palace, Castlereagh-street, Sydney.
To HERR RASSMUSSEN, Specialist in Nervous Diseases. —Dear
Sir, —I hereby certify that I have been under your skilful treatment
for a very obstinate case of nervous debility, and that you cured me
with one course of your Vitality Pills.—D. M‘NEILL, Hornsby
Junction, N.S.W.
m
m
Opinions of the Press.
-o— —
It is a well-known fact that HERR RASSMUSSEN, the Celebrated
Danish Herbalist, has performed many great cures during the past lew
years, as his numerous testimonials will prove. Sydney Bull
HERR RASSMUSSEN,—We have been shown some excellent Testi-
monials of the .great cures performed by Herr Rassmussen, the cele-
brated Danish Herbalist.— Australian Star.
HERR RASSMUSSEN has now been established in the colonies
for 10 years.— Sunday Times, April 28,1888.
HERR RASSMUSSEN has become a celebrity in the curing of all
diseases of the nervous system. His name has become a wonaer
throughout the Southern Hemisphere. He was presented with a uoia
Medal for some of-his miraculous cures.— Balmain Leader, May 12,1888.
HERR RASSMUSSEN.—The remarkable cures which he has effected
are pretty generally known. — Balmain Observer, April 28, 1888.
We are perpetually receiving letters irom HERR RASSMUSSEN S
cured patients requesting us to make known to the public the wonder-
ful medical skill this remarkable man possesses, and he has just been*
pn sented with a Gold Medal from several of his cured patients.
—Sydney Weekly News, May 2ft 1887,
Herr Rassmussen’s Herbal Remedies. (RR (; isTi-JJ-W.)
DENMARK VITALITY PlLLS.—Guaranteed to oure Nervous Debility, Lost Vitality, Errors of Youth and Despondency. Price, 225. 6d. per full course ; small box, ss. 6d.
DENMARK FEMALE RESTORER PlLLS.—Guaranteed to cure all complaints peculiar to Females, Irregularities, and eradicates complaints: which cause barrenness.
Price, 225. 6d. per course ; small box, ss. 6d. 1 -
LOCK CURE PlLLS.—Guaranteed to Cure all diseases of the blood, discharges, sores, and strictures. Price, 225. 6d. per course ; small box, ss. 6d.
CONSULTATION AND ADVICE FREE.
All the above remedies are made of PURE HERBS, and are forwarded unobserved. A valuable treatise on Nervous Debility, Private Complaints’, and Barrenness, sent
free, on receipt of 4d stamped addressed envelope. Consultation personally or by post, free. Patients are examined with the aid of the Microscope, j
Address • - Herr RAgSMUSSEN the Danish Herbalist,
Corner Gorcion-street & Park-road, HaclciirLgton., Sydney.
TRAMS—Take Paddington Tram to Paddington Tram Waiting-room,
swm
A
•*
%
\
$
\
4
%
,S %*
I
s
L
0
s
T
V
1
r
L
I
T
03-
.X
'Si'
lift
0 %
ď
Jr
m
mm*
Restores’
iTALITY
A Guaranteed Cure
for
Nervous Debility and
Lost Vitality.
225. 6d. per Course.
Smaller Box ss. 6d.
FLETCHER’S GAS COOKING STOVES.
,-v , ; . •>' ; | y / • •, , , v , _ •-
FLETCHER’S ASBESTOS FIRES.
r ; v•' .■;' rex ■;
RADCLIFFE RANGES, with H.P. BOILERS.
Chandeliers, Hall LlgHts, Brackets (a Large Assortment).
FENDERS &. FIRE BRASSES.
REGISTER GBATES & MARBLE MANTELS.
■■■ • ( r-r. r r. ■ ■ f• • - ■ ■■ •. • • ; •: : . •■ ■; r - ■ ' T r /, c - * ■' •
: ■ - ■' ■•- -- - - ' - • •; ' • - .. i -A A .
MEEAN BROS. & RIGG, LTD,
| __ 512 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
r pHE COLONIAL MUTUAL LIFE ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED.
BRANCHES THROUGHOUT THE COLONIES AND THE UNITED KINGDOM.
< Policies issued under the Ordinary, Modified Tontine and Mortuary iDividencl Systems.
WATSON’S
PILLS
HEALTH for the MILLION !
Mild, Aperient, Antibilious
Pills, purely vegetable
in their composition.
are particularly recommended to either sex, where a
gentle, but effective aperient is required. 1 hese Pills
are invaluable fer all complaintsof the Stoinacn and
Liver, speedily removing sick headache, biliousness,
indigestion, etc., and cleansing the
blood of all impurities. To Ladies
these pills will be found invaluable.
One trial is sufficient, to prove their vast superiority
over all others. Sold by all Chemists and Storekeepers.
Price Xs. per box. Prepared solely by John Watson,
Chemist, George Street,'Sydney.
Wholesale Agents:—
Messrs. Elliott Beos., S. Hoffnung & Co., Australian
Drug Co., Fieldham Gothklf & C 0.,, Myers &-Solomon,
Tilloch & Co, and J. R. Love & Co.
Dr, ALEXANDER PAT NISON, M,D„
(F.It.C.S., Ert.; Eng.,)
SPECIALIST.
157 Elizabeth Street, Hyde Park,
SYDNEY.
JO, UIXMVKI *i SON, Manufacturers and Im
a porters of Superior Oak-Tanned Lkathkr Bklting,
and every description of Leather Goods for Mining' and
Engineering purposes.
v'Tja
\S3S,
All Goods bearing the above Trade Mark are warranted
to give entire satisfaction, or may be returned at the
Makers’ expense. The Pioneer Oak-tanned Leather
Belting is used exclusively by the N.S.W. Government.
Over MO,OOO running in Australia. The cheapest and
best Belting in the world. Send for prices and catalogues
162 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
A. BOWMAN’S
LONDON MADE
Porpoise Hide Boots
Are Reduced from 30s. to 21s.
249 PITT ST., SYDNEY, Near Tattersall'fl.
Forpoise Hide Wears Twice as Long
as any other Leather.
They are noted all over London,
Birmingham and Liverpool.
London Fasliiona,
AND
Fresh Goods Every Fortnight
Trade Supplied Wholesale at a Great Advantage,
THE SYDNEY CATERING COMPANY. LTD.,
175 Pitt
(Late Gtmsler’s Cafe)
Street,
Sydney,
WISH their former Patrons and the Public Generally to know that their Saloons have been Entirely Reorganised, and shall be glad if they will give
a trial. " -■ * JAMES 0- MARQUAND, Manager-


PAPER-HANGINGS
Ous.DjLOURS4 Paints
WALLPAPERS 'from 3
529 Georges:
p/Vl
BathurstSt,
, pep
ROLL
\
Brickfield Hill .
TURPIN & BRIAN,
Wholesale and Family Grocers,
623 George Street, Sydney,
ARE THE
CHEAPEST GROCERS in the CITVt
A Trial Solicited,
WHITE SUGAR, 2id. per lb.
ROLLER FLOUR, ss. 501 b. bag.
SPERMS, sd.
HAIR’S SPICED & FRIED HERRINGS,
6£d. per tin.
Large Bottle W. SAUCE, 6d.
„ PICKLES, 6d.
COCOA, per packet.
41b. Bar SOAP, 6d.
NEW DATES, 3d. per lb.
J SARDINES, 3s. 9d. per dozen.
Box TEA, 10s. 6d., good and cheap.
51b. WHITE SUGAR and Üb. TEA, 2a.
NOTE THE ADDRESS:
623-George Street—623
Haymarket, SYDNEY,
(Opposite Square and Compass Hotel.)
yyiSTORY OF BOTANY BAY
T
ARTHUR GRAY a C 0„
TEA IMPORTERS
AND
BLENDERS,
FOOCHOW and SYDNEY.
Office and Sample Rooms;
385 Pitt Street,
Agents Wanted in every Town throughout
the Colony.
T
c.
-O-
-l-
EVERY = OLD == SPECIAL
SCOTCH = WHISKY.
DISTILLERIES CO. (Limited).
UMBRI :lLas
RE-COVE R£ a
STUDY ECONOMY
and
Have your Umbrella Frames
Re-Covered, and your
Parasols Re-Lined and made
Equal to New, at
J. SULLIVAN’S,
541 George Street,
Brickfield Hill, Sydney,
between
Liverpool Bathurst Sts.,
Parasols made to match Cos-
tumes. Repairs neatly done.
JOHN BXJCKH A iiiVl;
449 ELIZABETH STREET, MELBOURNE.
TENT, Tarpaulin, and Waterproof Cover
Manufacturer. Horse Rugs, Loin Covers,
Oilskin Coats, Cab Aprons, Marquees (with or
without flooring and flags) for sale or hire.
JOHN BUCK HAIM- MELBOURNE.
Oldest established house in the trade.
When ordering please mention this paper.]
ALLAN A. MARSHALL & CO.,
Engineers, Coppersmiths, Brass and Bell Founders,
Finishers, Plumbers, Ship & General Smiths,
Gasfitters, Art & Mediaeval Metal Worker
BOLLEB SKATES (any make) with BRASS or IVOODES WHEELS.
„ Heaters and Ventilators at~greatly Reduced Prices 11,000 Fires already in use
Verity s GasL,? fl nd Manufactiirers of Diving Gear, Yacht and Boat Work of every description in
Iron SXss SWpsSgle and Double Action Valve Closets, Fire Hydrants, Hose and all appliances
Bon Accord Works, 9 Macquarie Place, Sydney.
• •
HIGHLY NUTRITIVE
Coeoa
MAY BEJJBTAINED IN LABELLED TINS Oft PACKETS THHUUBHUUnnt COLONY
NOW ACKNOWLEDGED
THE BEST
IN THE MARKET
AirnuT
nrauifu
amsihm
SOLD
M.W.tC?
SOI9 A wnts; JAMES MOIR&C 0., 58 Margaret-st, Sydney
E.UCALYPTE. 0
Victory Ointments
COLEMAHE&SOKSI
THE TREE OF LIFE
(rcm-tf*
Duncan. R. oss,
The Great American Athlete,
CURED of INFLUENZA by using COLEMANE & SONS’
EUCALYPTE EXTRACT.
DON’T BE DECEIVED.
If you want the best Medicine the world has ever pro-
duced, try ConEMANB & Sons’ Eucalypte Extract— there
are no ten medicines equal to it. It is one of Nature’s
greatest gifts to mankind. It is the only known cure for
Asthma, Consumption, Bronchitis, and all affections of
the Chest and Lungs. For Palpitation of the Heart,
Gravel and Kidney complaints it has no equal. Fevers of
all kinds, Coughs,'Colds, Rheumatism, etc., are banished
by its use. Awarded Medals and Diplomas Adelaide,
Sydney and Melbourne, beating all competitors. Singers
and public speakers will find C. and Sons’ Eucalypte
Honey a wonder. f3g°° Be sure and get Colemanb and
Sons.
A POSITIVE CURE.
DR. BOHANNAN’S Curative Remedies for all Private
Nervous, and Special Complaints. Always reliable.
Descriptive chart sent, sealed, for two stamps. Address
Hotel Metropole Pharmacy, Phillip-street, Sydney,
N.S.W.
SEND FOR Db. PERRY
>S FAMOUS WORK ON DISEASES OF THE REPRODUCTIVE ORGANS, FREE ON APPLICATION.
SELF-MAIT _A.OISj3VCE:N'T .
consult DR- PERRY, M.R.C.S., L.S.A., etc.
(REGISTERED BY THE MEDICAL BOARD OF NEW SOUTH WALES),
Late House Surgeon to the Great Northern Hospital, Caledonian Road, London,
SPECIALIST in the Treatment of Diseases of the
Reproductive Organs and Nervous Complaints .
Db PERRY was induced to publicly advertise himself as a
Specialist' in this branch of the profession in consequence of the number
of'persons suffering from diseases of this nature remaining uncured ; and
this is not surprising, when it is remembered, m consequence of the
general dislike of the profession to undertake these cases, the public
health has suffered, because the majority of persons advertising to treat
these diseases, and calling themselves Doctors, Professors, etc.,
Are Neither the One nor the Other,
md exist chiefly because DULY QUALIFIED MEDICAL PRAC-
TITIONERS have not occupied the field.
Patients can, therefore, readily see the advantage of teing treated
©y a practitioner who has gone through a thorough Medical, Surgical and
Anatomical Training in the best hospitals ; and the Doctor argues that,
although it may be considered contrary to antiquated medical etiquette
to soSertL yet he is promoting the usefulness and the dignity of
the profession more by searching out and relieving this class of disease,
than by leaving them severely alone to the care of men who, however good
LTr intentions have neither the opportunities or advantages of a regular
Seal training to become acquainted with the best methods of treating
these complex forms of isease.
fc:
ZDr.
Will be happy to advise persons suffering from these
diseases, and as, in many cases,
Nothing but the observance of a few simple directions
as to Self-Management
is required to place the patient in a healthy state, all who
are in any way affected should consult him, and thus have
the benefit of his advice and experience.
(I) 1
Diabetes successfully treated by a totally new
method of Cutaneous Medication*
Tumours also specially treated by successful method.
ALL CASES GUARANTEED.
Varicocele Q«loMy and Sucocaafully Treated wlthcixt Operation.
ZHZOTJIR-S :
From 10 a.m. to 4 p.m each week day, and from 7 to 9 p.m on Tuesday and Saturday evenings.
An Consultations, either by Letter or PersonaUy, ABSOLUTELY FREE.
D , PERRY TREATS HIS PATIENTS PERSONALLY. AND INVITES PUBLIC INVESTIGATION INTO HIS CREDENTIALS.
Note address: Elmley House, 151 Elizabeth street, Sydney.


Medical.
NERVOUS MEN.
m
v‘
flj
EUREKA
M 8
ELECTRIC
BELTW
X
A NEVER FAILING- CURE FOR ALL.
diseases op the nervous system.
Complete with Suspensory Appliances from £l. 0.0 and
Is This famous Electric Magnetic Belt will cure
khTpYOUS DEBILITY, Seminal Debility, Impotence,
Md all weakness caused by Indiscretion. Pains in the
flick Lumbago, Giddiness, Rheumatism, Kidney and
Bladder complaints, and in fact any disease of the Nerroua
fivstem The currents are steady and constantly felt by
fiXwMTPr Tt has great improvements over all other
hefts we are willing® to furnish those belts on 30 days
5 ™ n d accept payment after they have proved them-
-6 Vtot we represent them to be. . Those belts are
made for the specific purpose of. Producing a continuous,
mild soothing current of electricity through all the weak-
ened parts, restoring them to health and vigorous strength,
even the worst ease permanently cured m three months.
It is more convenient to wear than any other Belt.
A Book illustrated, containing full information and testi-
monials from prominent people throughout Australia,
and informing persons how they may obtain these belts
without paying for them until they have proved them com-
ment to cure any disease of the Nervous System, will be
forwarded to any address on receipt of a 2d stamp fax
Address' VOLTAlC BELT COMPANY
* Box 916, G. P. 0., Sydney.
Dr. James B. Llewellyn,
(registered)
SPECIALIST in
SENITO-UEIMEY DISEASES,
May be CONSULTED at
-3 2 5 LONSDALE STREET-
(between SwanstOn de Elizabeth Sts.),
MELBOURNE.
US' Consulting Hours—lo to 2; 7to 9. Sunday
Mornings, 10 to 11.
All Personal Consultations are free ; by letter the
Fee is £l, which is inclusive of medicines.
o
52*
Tricopheroos
TOR THE
HAIR a SKIN
An elegant dressing ex-
quisitely perfumed, re-
moves all impurities from
the scalp, prevents bald-
ness and gray hair, and causes the hair to grow
Thick. Soft and Beautiful. Infallible for curing
eruptions, diseases of the skin, glands and muscles,
and quickly healing cuts, burns, bruises, sprains, &c.
Caution.—None genuine without the trade-mark of
Bxbclat & Co., New York, affixed to each bottle.
t
Barr ys
Pearl
Cream
forthi
Complexion
Imparts to the darkest skin a clear, natural white,
tinged with the faintest rose-blush. Speedily removes
Wrinkles, Freckles, Sunburn and Tan, and mantles
the faded cheek with youthful bloom and beauty.
CAUTION.—None genuine without the trade mark
Of Barclay & Co., New York, affixed to each bottle
IST' A BLESSING IN EVERY FAMILY.
HOLLOWAY’S PILLS AND OINTMENT.
There is not a country in the civilised world where
the healing virtues of thes a grand medicines have not been
recognised by thousands of sufferers. In all the ordinary
ailments of humanity their beneficent action is at once
recognised. Fullest directions are supplied for their use
m every disease. IF YOU SUFFER, TRY THEM. Manu-
faotured only at 78 Nkw Oxford-st., London. Pur-
chasers should look to the Label on the Boxes and Pots.
If the address is not 623 Oxford-street, London, they are
spurious.
T
A
?
i
N
Y
Q
U
o
N
G
T
A
R
T
LOONG SHAN TEA HOUSE
NOW OPEN.
Quong Tart & Co.’i
EXTENSIVE NEW PREMISES
(Nearly opposite Theatre Royal).
FIRST-CLASS GRILLS,
As well as all kinds of Refreshments, may
be obtained from 7.30 a.m. to 11.30 p.m.
CUP OP DELICIOUS TEA.
ICED DRINKS OF ALL KINDS, &c.
The rooms are splendidly furnished and
fitted up. In addition to the large and
well - appointed Refreshment Rooms,
gentlemen will find on the Second Floor
Commodious and Comfortable Smoking
and Conversation Rooms, furnished with
Chess, Draughts, &c., &c.
TO THE LADIES.
On the First Floor will be found Nice
Fnyate Room for Ladies, convenient for
Writing, Reading, &c., also Re thing
Rooms and Lavatory, with both hot and
cold water laid on. Inspection Invited.
Finest Teas imported—Packets Jib. and
upwards supplied. Orders promptly at-
tended to.
187 KING STREET. SYDNEY.
PATENT
PILLS.
Medical.
A WONDERFUL MEDICINE.
Beecham’s Pills
Are universally admitted
to be worth a Guinea
a Box for bilious
and nervous disorders,
such as wind and pain in
the stomach, sick head-
ache, giddiness, fulness
and swelling after meals,
dizziness, and drowsiness,
cold chills, flushings of
heat, loss of appetite,
shortness of breath, cos-
tiveness, scurvy, blotches
on the skin, disturbed
sleep, frightful dreams,
and all nervous and trem-
bling sensations, &c. The
first dose will give relief
Every
these
. „ . , in twenty minutes,
sufferer ia earnestly invited to try one box of
Pills, and they will be acknowledged to be
Worth a Guinea a Box.
For females of all ages these Pilja are invaluable,
as a few doses of them carry off all humors, and
bring' about all that is required. No female should
be without them. There is no medicine to be found
equal to BEECHAM’S PILLS for removing any
obstruction or irregularity of the system. If taken ac-
cording to the directions given with each box they will
soon restore females of all ages to sound and robust
health. This has been proved by thousands who have
tried them, and found the benefits which are. ensured by
their use
For weak stomach, impaired digestion and all disorders
of the liver, they act like “ MAGIC,” and a few doses will
be found to work wonders upon the most important
organs in the human machine. They strengthen the
whole muscular system, restore the long-lost complexion,
bring back the keen edge of appetite, and arouse into ac-
tion with the ROSEBUD of health the whole physical
energy of the human frame. These are “FACTS” tes ified
continually by members of all classes of society ; and
one of the best guarantees to the nervous and debilitated
is, Beecham’s Pills have the largest sale of any patent
medicine in the world.
Beecham’s Magic Cough Pills.
As a remedy for Coughs in general, Asthma, Bronchial
Affections, Hoarseness, Shortness of Breath, Tightness
and Oppression of the Chest, Wheezing, &c., these Pills
stand unrivalled. They are the best ever offered to the
public and ill speedily remove that sense of oppression
and difficulty of breathing which nightly deprive the
patient of rest. Let any person give Bekcdam’s Couon
Pills a trial and the most violent Cough will in a
short time be removed.
Prepared only and sold wholesale and retail by the pro-
prietor, Thomas Beeoham, Chemist, St. Helens,Lancashire,
England, in boxes at Is. and 2s. 9d. each.—Sold by
ail Druggists and Patent Medicine Dealers everywhere.
N.B.—Full directions are given with each box.
CONSULT PROFESSOR SELBY,
376 Cleveland Street, Surry Hills, Sydney,
Personally or by letter on Chronic Complaints
of the Nervous System, Diseases of the Urinary
Organs and all Impurities of the Blood. A Positive
Cure in all cases amendable to treatment. Suf-
ferers should read the Professor’s valuable treatise,
sent post free to all who send their address. It
contains Advice on Marriage, worth its weight
in gold.
IT p S ’ s
GEATEFOL—COMFORTING
C 0 0 O A.
Dr. westcott’S amenorrhcea
PILLS for Ladies, when taken for a few
days before, quickly correct all irregularities
from whatever cause arising ; 2s. 9d. and 4s. 6d..
by post 3s. and ss. W. H. SOUL and CO., 190
Pitt-street, Sydney, Agents.
Musical.
INGHAM’S
PATMT SCALE INSTRUCTOR
FOR TUB—
IFIJAZEsTOyOIRTIB.
PUPILS can obtain the above at once, and the best
way to illustrate its usefulness to them is to sup-
pose a man to live to be a hundred years old and never
to have seen a Piano, he would, with five minutes’
instruction, be able to play the most difficult Major and
Minor Scales on the instrument.
Miscellaneous.
WA. LEWIS, old-established Private Detective,
a for the discovery of Missing Friends, tracing
Absconders, watching Suspected Persons, and prosecuting
all kinds of Private and Confidential Enquiries ; obtaining
Evidence in Divorce, Libel, Fraud, Bigamy, Breach of
Promise ; extracts from or Copies of Wills, or Certificates
of Births, Marriages or Deaths obtained in any part of the
world. Bankrupt Schedules Filed, £l, by a legal gentle-
man duly admitted and practising in ail the courts of
N.S.W., who may be consulted at my office on all legal
work. Consultation Free. Rents and Debts Collected,
Distress Warrants issued, steady and trustworthy Bailiffs
employed, and all moneys received are promptly accounted
for, W. A. LEWIS cautions the public against so-called
old-established private detective agencies, as he is con-
nected with no agents in Sydney. An intelligent, well-
trained staff of Male and Female Assistants retained,
capable, when necessary, of assuming any character in
life—from a newspaper boy to a clergyman, or from a
servant girl to a lady. Terms Moderate. Consultation
Free Address—
Phcknix Chambers, 158 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
[Telephone 723.
WILLIAM CAEGILL,
Photographic Stock Importer,
26 MARKET STIEaZEUBT,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
SPECIAL NOTICE.—The Sydney Bulletin.
Tasmanian Edition Publishers, FITZ-
GERALD BROS. Subscription (payable strictly
in advance), Six Shillings and Sixpence per quar-
ter, or One Pound per annum.
The Bulletin will be on Sale every Friday at
the Office, George Street, Launceston, or from the
Runners in the street.
Business Announcements
The bank of new Zealand.
Sydney Branches:
64 PITT STREET, and 538 GEORGE STREET.
Paid-up Capital £1,125,000
The Bank has Agents in all the principal cities
throughout the United States of America and
Canada, and can offer special facilities for dealing
in Bullion, Bills of Exchange, Commercial and
Travellers’ Letters of Credit.
Drafts issued and Bills collected on most favour-
able terms, at rates which can be ascertained on
application.
N. F. GIBLIN, Manager.
J£"ATOOMBA FAMILY HOTEL.
JOSEPH NIMMO.
First-class Accommodation for Tourists and Families
Wires and Letters to be addressed “Proprietor.”
Arrangements can be made to provide transit for persons
wishing to view the celebrated Jeuwlau Caves and
other places of interest.
\.V3
J
EVERY
DESCRIPTION
HAIR WORK DONE
%
<2
iPi
<f
<b
v
N
PRIVATt
ROOM
FOR LADIES
2 $24
10YALARCA0I
MELBOURNE
J. SITTEHLIM,
FROM PARIS,
Ladies' Hairdresser. Vfigmaker. Sc Perfumer,
25 SYDNEY ARCADE, SYDNEY.
HISTORICAL AND FANCY HAIRDRESSING A
SPECIALTY.
Manufacturer of All Kinds of Theatrical
and Street Wigs.
Amiiiouiat<-<l tjuinine,
The most efficient Hair Lotion, to prevent prema-
ture baldness.
Sitterlin's Vegetable Hair-dye,
The only Hair-dye in the colonies to restore Light
Hair to its natural colour. All shades.
Success £5,33.
MANUFACTURING HATTERS,
GEORGE STREET
c yn W
importersofallthe
NEWESTSHAPES.
And at ALBERT STREET, BRISBANE.
zm
C' ' .
Pi r&Ki- T*
m
đ
Al/Crf^
INC
V.
PO
MANUFACTURED 6V <? /■
JjJM£S C/ZM/VOA'S/ariourS* & r=ji
)cld ly all &t3CJ-U> <? S/oreAetfiem
HHNMBUMBHBKHHnHHSBHEBSXMnMfItiniin
Sold. Vu
Business Announcements.
ijihe: three great lights
The Needles Patent Gas-making Machine;
The Harvey Patent Safety Kerosene Lamp;
And the New Era Portable Gas Lamp.
The Harvey Lamp has been adopted by the
Railway Commissioners for lighting the Sydney
trams. We were awarded the Highest Order of
Merit and Special Mention by experts at the
late Melbourne Exhibition for our lighting
mediums. Over 6000 Harvey Lamps are in use
in this colony, and for all lighting purposes are
giving universal satisfaction. These Lamps can
be seen on one of the North Shore ferry-boats,
and are suitable for all classes of vessels. The
Inventor offers £2OO to anyone producing as good
a Kerosene Burner.
Patentees for Australasia:
H. T. Smith Ss Co., 494 Kent St. South, Sydney;
14 Arcade, Adelaide, S.A.; Argent Street, Broken Hill;
Parkside Iron Works, Melbourne.
The Cheapest and Best Horsefeed
IN NEW SOUTH WALES.
CHAMPION OATEN CHAFF!
PRIME OATEN CHAFF!
LUCERNE CHAFF!
MIXED CHAFF!
Our own Cutting. Fresh every day.
Buy from us and save money, “St
City Produce Company,
STEAM CHAFF-CUTTERS.
HAY STREET, HAYMARKET.
R-ead. ! elcS. ! 3FS.eEi.caL I
“THE BULLETIN’S”
History of Botany Bay,
By Arthur Gayll.
Profusely Illustrated by The Bulletin’s well-
known Artists,
L. HOPKINS and PHIL MAY.
Price - One Slailling
Per post, Is. 3d.
Hotels.
PFAHLERT’S HOTEL,
SYDNEY, N S.W..
Opposite the Park, Vv/nyard Square.
(U‘ide r New Management.)
rpHIS for 25 years well-known First-class Central Hotel,
recently thoroughly renovated throughout, has every
comfort and attention of a home. The Cuisine Department
is under competent French supervision. Dining Room
open for Non-Residents. Open-air Recreation Garden.
A well-ventilated Billiard Room adjoining Recreation
Ground (three Alcock’s best Tables), under the manage-
ment of A. Buckingham,- late of Empire Hotel. Winei
and Spirits of the very best quality only, and the Finest
and Coolest Bar in Town
HOT AND COLD BATHS.
13?” mi; a i i*oKtta.
Telephone Xo. 150.
French
German
Italian
Spoktn.
SPECIAL SUITES FOR FAMILIES.
CHAS. HECHX ... Manager.
Mr* and Mrs* Thordas Asciis
Beg to inform their Friends and Patrons that,
in addition to other recent improvements at the
BOYAL HOTEL,
a first-ch.ss HYDRAULIC ELEVATOR has
been erected for the convenience of Visitors,
rendering it the most complete and comfortable
house in Sydney; and with the personal and un-
ceasing attention of Mr. and Mrs. Asche in every
detail of management, they rely on the continued
patronage of their many old friends, whose kindly
recommendation of the ROYAL HOTEL to their
friends will be esteemed.
THE GEORGE HOTEL
(opposite Railway Station, near Batht),
St. Kilda, Victoria.
First-class Family & Commercial Hotel.
' US' For particulars, apply to
F. WIMFOLB,
PROPRIETOR,
AL ' STANDARI) ~HOTEL~
CASTLEREAGH and BATHURST STREETS
Thoroughly renovated throughout.
First-class accommodation for Country Visitors
G. BOYNE ... ... Proprietor.
A GOLDEN SHANTY
Price One Shilling.
Australian stories and sketches is prose and verse
—BY—-
“BULLETIN’' WRITERS.


SHEVILL & CO.,
Corner Queen Street and Flinders Lane,
MELBOURNE.
MERCANTILE AUCTIONEERS,
House, Land, and Estate Agents,
; * V'-"
: - r '
m
: :
m
Advances made against shipments of Merchandise
and Colonial Produce.
Daily Sales held at their Commodious
New Ilooms.
OUTDOOR
Furniture & Land Sales Conducted.
Branch
Offices
32 Chapel St., Prahran. |
2 Albert St., Windsor. )
Branch
Offices
Anglo Scandinavian
Cold Medal
Condensed
Milk.
Acknowledged
The Best
srt i =
WALLACH BROS.’
3XTDE3-W
FURNITURE
WAREHOUSES,
York Street, Wynyard Square, Sydney,
Now supply the General Public as well as the Trade.
10,000 Bedsteads,
From lOs. 6d. to £35.
d
H. R. Leach,
SUCCESSOR TO
GB. MODINI, Gunmaker, informs his Customers
■ and the Public in general that he has the largest
assortment of Firearms in the colony. Qualities and prices
to defy competition. Guns by the following celebrated
gunmakers J. Purdhy & Sons, Ch. Boswell, John Right
and Co., Joseph Hang & Sons, Ch. Osborne & Co., Tuomab
Bland & Son, '/. Powell & Sons. A large assortment ol
various other makers always on hand, viz., W. W. Greener,
Scott, Webley, Hollis &‘ Sons, Kilsy and Cabhmork. All
goods will be faithfully guaranteed at 602 George-
Street. Sydney. Price list on application.
Tlioxiias Rosa,
TOBACCO & CIGAR IMPORTER,
27 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY,
(Corner of Pitt Street.)
A large stock of Genuine llavuiiitalt Cigars, «f tfc«
choicest Brands to select from.
Sole Importer of the Celebrated “ Flor de Bonlto ”
Brand of Cigars and “ Empire Cigarette*.”
Falls H®* dge Family Hotel,
Falls Bridge, Mblbootn*.
% . .
This magnificent Hotel, containing 60 Double
and Single Rooms, is splendidly fumr hed and
perfectly ventilated.
Hot and Cold Phage and Shower Baths.
Electric Bells. Tbusphonb 1217. Billiards, dee.
Terms Strictly Moderate.
J, H. DUIIRANT Manager,
Late of the South Australian Club Hotel, Adelaida.
Free Freacriptlona
Are to be found in the “Light and LtLfe,’
for the Speedy Cure of Nervous Debility and
Kindred Diseases, &c. A copy of this book will
be sent Free, sealed, for Six Penny Stamps.
Address —
S. WARD & CO., SYDNEY PHARMACY,
76 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
ď
FRY’S MALTED COCOA.
Huntington Hill*
Knowles’ Fumpi.
PARKE & LACY GO.,
MINING & HYDRAULIC ENGINEERS
AND
GENERAL MACHINERY MERCHANTS,
&Ot| &c., &c.
187 & 189 Clarence Street,
SYDNEY, 3NT.S.-W.
And SAN FRANCISCO, CALIFORNIA.
Rock Breakers.
Wes tin til* oust* Engines.
TANGYES, LIMITED,
Hay St., Haymarket, Sydney,
ENGINES,
2 to 50 h.p.
BOILERS,
1 to 35 H.p.
STEAM PUMPS
For all purposes.
CENTRIFUGAL PUMPS,
2" to 40" discharge.
HAND POMPS.
Saw Benches.
Xja.tb.ea.
DRILLING MACHINES.
' ■"
i
TODIHS ENGINES,
Hauling Engines,
Battery Engines.
Saw-mill Engines.
nous-mu. engines.
ENGINES
FOR
Electric Lighting,
Vortical Boilers.
Multituhlar Boilers.
tOK.Msil BOIUEBS,
fto.
W* iarito al those requiring Machinery of any kind lor any purpose, large or small, to write for particulars and prices. From the extent of our stock we are generally able to a »
Visitors, whether buyers or not, are always welcome to inspect the magnificent display in our new and extensive- Showrooms " unmemate dein
128, 131, 133 & ' 135 HAY STREET, HAYMARKET, ’ SYO 3XTE
