

AITKEN’S ALE
LIFE BUOY BRAND.
the best in the market.
DICKENS’” WHISKY'
USED BY THE LATE CHARLES DICKENS,
4N » SUPPLIED TO THE PKIMPAI CL IBS I3V SI DN EY.
Harrison <Ss
2si; George-st., Sydney. Sol© Agents
for 3ST©w South Wales.
o
Street, S“2TID2!TE"2“.
UNEIVALLED ACCOMMODATION.
IDicfeson’s Hotel, 33m11i
; 33Villi 3E»a-ss. ,J “Look-Out.”
DISTANCE FROM SYDNEY, 42 MILES.
WM. DICKSON
Wishing "Well.”
AND VEHICLES ON HIKE.
e “ Lodd,on Waterfalls.”
EVERY ACCOMMODATION.
- Proprietor.
Ain* -i
TH E
ROYAL
EDINBURGH
CASTLE"
Specwlßeserve
* A *
OLD
ScotchWhisky
u
ms
1-
KOVAL
Edinburgh Castle
WHISKY.
* * m
Special Reserve.
In Square Bottles.
This Whisky was
selected by our Gene-
ral Manager, Mr. J as.
Cullen, during' his
recent visit to Scot-
land, and through its
purity, age and mag-
nificent bouquet, has
already secured the
premier position in the
market. In cases, qrs.
and octaves. To be
had Duty Paid from
any of the Wholesale
Wine and Spirit Mer-
chants and Distribu-
ting Houses, and in
Bond only from the
SOLE AGENTS,
William Campbell & Co M Limited^
58 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
PO
• f
HIGHLY NUTHHiVE.
oa
TAINKIJ IN f ABELI FD TINS Utt.t'AdLt]s THROIIIiHUUT THF COLONY.
m.
Grand Novelty ! Grand Novelty!
FOB MARKING
LINEN. PAPER, ENVELOPES, &c.
v Special
New System, more perfect than the Rubber. New
Invention. Prizes from the New Orleans (U.S.) and
Melbourne Exhibitions. Prices.— Medium Monograms,
with box and bottle of Indelible Ink for marking Linen,
taper, Collars, Cuffs, and Handkerchiefs, Price four
shillings. Larger Monograms, price in proportion.
L. Shrager, 19 Macquarie-Place, Op. Exchange.
& c.
Howard’s Colonist 3-Fnrrow IHgglng
1*1« ngli(B.lE.O. L)
-- r ' r s
SiiiglC’liirrow Oiggan*.
Tlie Plougii of tlie Times!
PLOUGHING AND HARROWING IN ONE ACT.
Share Points only cost 6d., and are Reversible.
Ciiai'K-Ci'tti:i;s, 11ok.sk Gears and every kind of Amtjoiri/irjsAt Imi'i.k.mkvis
ZltT STOCK.
Enquirers please quote this paper.
a.BOS PITT STREET,
(Corner of Pitt and Bathurst Streets).
T~H —FP f
LONDON & SYDNEY TEA COMPANY
‘ X ° e Street, £S "ST JO 3KT DES "ST.
H IG H-C LASS TEAS
Packed in 201 b. and 401 b. Package.-,
At Is. (>d., Is. Del. and 2s. pc;. ... .
> (<f
H
fc
J'ik-'W
ty:: i
( tistomers please enclose Remittance or
Reference.
- t 7 : A Single Package at Wholesale Price
•*- 0U « BLENDER AT WORK ON INDIA AND CHINA,
The Bulletin
Yol. 11—No. 538. J
[Saturday, June 7, 1890.


TOBACCO
m
m
«<!
ill
Ciistoms Returns.
Q
American Lea f,
Dixsou and Sous tons uned in ISSB, 52,51(2 -I)?,
more, and iu 1881) (over 44 ton.--) 1)8,1)31) lbs. more
,V•«.»■! i.-an Leaf than all the rest of New South
Wa'i . j -11 f togot’-er.
J.U N.SON’S TOll VCTos having the l;n-.v '
sal.- mi any in Anstn-lia. are
o
&
☆
X
o ó
Dr. RIDGE’
FOOD
FOE INFANTS AND INVALIDS
Has aa enormous sale in England
and is now being introduced into the
Colonies.
Kvei-y Storekeeper should set a supply
as evrry Wise mother will certainly
use it.
DR. RIDGE S ROYAL FOOD MILLS,
LONDON, ENGLAND.
O'
SATIN
a
XAOI£ s
Bjgfe
ItPUNKS^K
/I? J7l/*‘s*
BROWN’S
8 AT IN
POL I S H
Foil—
LADAS’ 7-iTD CHILDREN’S
1./. :: AND SHOES.
.1 ihu-ded highest honors at
J'iiiia,, 1870
Hyriin, 1877
1878
Melbourne, 1880
Frankfort, 1881
Amsterd’m 1883
Kew Orleans, 1884-85, and wherever
exhibited.
I’drfs medal on every bottle.
Beware of Imitations.
This Blacking is in Jhjuicl form and is applied to shoes
or other articles of : athc-r by means of a sponge, attached
to the cork by a wire, s > that the blacking can be used by
anyone without soiling the fingers. No polishing brush
is required. Ir dries immediately after being applied, and
will not soil the mosl delicate'clothing.
Sold largeh i n Ansi t-alia through Commission Merchants
and Dealers.
b. r. brown & co.,
Boston, U.S.A V M’f'gs.
THE TAT.:.*?A? CCIA-'SS PALACE,
i,i j)jai:i» stnia r, ri.M.r.AKA'J’.
WTlSl'it )!;S lo tliv ; n (‘iiy will find every
V e<>nv. ; iii«.ii>-.- at tin- aii.w lArdilishinent.
The On’v ( ‘otli Palace ia Ikilhu al.
Mor>T?RATR Oil AKOiX
Eliii) ikt Proprietors.
ATKINSON'S
ENGLISH PERFUMERY
anrpasses all others for its natural
fragrance.
ESSENCE OF WHITE COSE
FRANGIPANNE
STEPHANOTIS
YLANG YLANG
OPOPANAK
and other -well-known Perfumes are
unequalled for their delightful and
lasting odour.
Of alt Dealers, and of the Manufacturers^
J, & E. ATKINSON,
24, OLD BOND STREET, LONDON.
Trade Marie—" White Rose ”on Golden
Lyre, with Address in full. j,
THOMAS IVI‘C REERY;
MEDICAL HERBALIST.
83 Oxford Street, i doors above Riley Street.
Private Di'ieam of Both Sexes a Sprain!ity.
Consultations Gratis. Charges very Moderate.
A Trial Solicited.
A SPEEDY CURE GUARANTEED.
Insukb Youtt Health Against All Risks
-BY TAKING-
Kruse's Fluid Magnesia .
H Cools tin; Jilood, Promotes,a Healthy Plow of the Accretions
and Fortifies the System against the Shafts of Disease.
Tl-c Boct Auyricr.t Tor CL.ldrou. Numerous Gold Medals.
SUPERIOR tio 0.11 OTIOiEiFIS!
' (Vide Medical Testimonials, Analysis, &0., accompanying each .Bottfe.)
-TAKE ONLY KRUSE’S-
Sold in Bottles at Is. 3d., 2s. 6d., 3s. 6d. Each.
Wholesale Agents : Messrs. ELLIOTT Bros., Ltd
CLARENDON 7HOTEL7MANLY
The Brighton of New South Wales.
VT the CLARENDON HOTEL, Banquets, Suppers, Private Dinners, Evening Parties, etc., are
served on the Shot test Notice in the Large Dining Hall. Besides having a most recherche
Dinner von can enjoy from the balconies the magnificent view of the sea and surrounding country;
i, ro a i’ B o vou C an have good company, good Vines—in fact,' everything that can possibly make one
comfortable can be found at this really first-class hotel. Fishing and Picnic Parties provided. Tabic
ilr I life at One o’clock daily and Sundays. No expense is spared by Mrs. KILMINSTEB to make her
li si fas comfortable and her Hotel the best in the colony.
VvjLsts. KILMiIISJrSTBR., Clarendon Hotel,
Opposite OCEAN BEACH, MANLY.
T. LAWLESS June.,
37 MARKET STREET,
SYDNEY,
IT* x* vi i “t. I*2l ere lx ev aa. “fc*
“gj DW I N G GOE It TZ,
Stock ami Share Broker,
Pllir A3ST CIAL IST T,
Biila-JANB
Member of the Brisbane Stork Exchange.
LADIES,
CONSULT the Eminent
Specialist,
Dr. SPEER, 31 York-st.,
Sydney.
PILLS (Guaranteed), 55.. post freo.
68 Hunter Street, and 8 Bligh Street,
SYDNEY.
IF 1 . SHBOEDEE
LIVERY, BAIT, LET-OUT AND COMMIS-
SION STABLES.
Horses and Vehicles of every description for
Sale or Hire; also, good reliable Ladies or Gentle-
men's Hack?.
gpO CAPITALISTS. SPECULATORS,
“**■ and Others,
Vacant Lands near Sydney
AVAILABLE UNDER THE
Non-Residential Clauses of the Laud Act.
For particulars and terms apply t >
“ IWESTIGATOI!,"
Box 809, G.P.0., Sydney.
CiiAr f n v 13 ro s, Eff
/„ -
> O'
;VX«.-.
\!> . V
V
G)
■'tt
v\v.:
ttf- ■
m
<S>
Q K V%^‘
C
•o
Offices
Tro*J«s * C?~
LOfJ D o; 1 c c
1> RIN C E 0 F WAIi E s HOT E L,
St. KildLa, Victoria.
Within Five Minutes from STATION, and One Minute from ESPLANADE and BATES.
MRS. KONG MJBNG ... ... ... PiopiM-tress.
-m*
• v', .
■
rm
■jSk
««
m
Purchasers should see that the Label on every bottle of the otiglnal
WORCESTERSHIRE SAUCE
bears the Signature, thus ;—•
Ash for I,r \A- I’ntmxs’ nteo, av 1 see T* •oe on -Wrapper, Label, Pottle and Stopper.
/Ve»v.V/w.<. 7/’)»•'•• Crosse ft Blackwell, Loudon, se., sc.;
:r Vi a.. I ( '
Wholesale and for J\.rport It fl-
an it /■ 7 (
!t. > outhont (he World.
Everyone should IReud
■HISTORY of BOTANY BAY,’
!Oy ARTHUR
Profusely Illustrated l>y “Tito Bulletin’s” well-known Artists, L Hopkins and Phil May.
- ONE SHILLING; per Pest, Is. 3d
Price
May be had from Agents, or direct from “ Tim Bulletin Office;
Agents— Victorian :A, Benjamin, 32 1 Little Collins Street Last, MdUnmiot Tasmanian : J'itsijTcraU
Launceston ; Queensland : J. H. Thompson, Heorge Street, Brisbane.
i i >r< ihd . (ieorge Street,


BEALE «5c CO.’S
NEW WAREHOUSE.
:'U
AND CHIEF OFFICES,
432* -434* k 48G Georgs Street*
SYDNEY.
R E V 0 L UT lONISING
THE FI-A.TXTO TRADE.
Messrs. Beale & Co.’s Great Enterprise.
rpIIERE can be no qu s killing the fact that the Piano
1 Trade of t.hcise Colonies has undergone a complete
revolution during the last five years ; and to that desirable
change certainly no firm has contributed more than
Messrs. Beale and Company. During the time high prices
continued the trade was held hy a few, and hundreds of
homes now rendered attractive by the glorious influence
of music scarce could dream of becoming the ultimate
owners of the instrument which has done so much to
cheer and to refine our modern domestic life.
When Beale and Company commenced business they
had quietly gauged this condition of affairs in Australia,
and they began operations on a .plan which could alone
work out successively in a mammoth undertaking such as
they proposed. With the Australian selling branch of
their enterprise they resolved to combine the manufacture
of Pianos in Germany—the centre of the world's trade for
that instrument. But the experts sent out here for the
purpose of fully determinin'.: what was best fitted for
colonial requirements reported that it was essential to
have a special make of piano to suit our climate—an in-
strument as different as those made for Europe as Aus-
tralia is different from the Old World. The result of this
was the production of the staunchest pianoforte of
modern times—the iron-framed “ Hapsburg.” The in-
strument is regarded by the most capable experts of
Europe as the Production of the Age, combining as
it does every feature of the highest class instrument with
the maximum of strength and durability, and it was placed
on the market at prices much under what other firms and
manufacturers had previously demanded. Although it
took almost endless trouble and long, patient labour to
produce the design of the “ Inimitable Hapsburg,” yet once
produced the demand giew so rapidly, and has become so
great, that Hie enterprising originators are able to out-
distance all competitors for both quality and price. The
peculiar construction of the iron frame, the excellence
of the wires, and the unique movements have, with all
other factors, contributed to this splendid success. No
other instrument, possesses to the same degree such rich
full, clear, hell-like tones, so noticeable in the “Haps-
burg,” especially in the higher grades, while strength,
solidity, and imperviousness to climatic influences have
been so well looked to that whether on t.ie coldest n eak-
e'st spots of New- Zealand or our own Monaro Plains, or in
the hottest of our Western and Northern areas, this
wonderful pianoforte not only maintains, but improves its
tone and consequent value even after years of use. And
it must continue so. The genius and experience of the
mechanical world in this branch of art are embodied i ■
this one instrument - the inimitable “ Hapsburg:”- a d
the sales to-day give ample evidence of the repute in whi h
it is held. Beale & Company have placed the
“Hapsburg” with thousands of families in Australia.
Homes in the far-distant back blocks, and homes in the
city, are not only enlivened hut are made purer and better
through the influence of its music. The firm resolved (o
do a large trade by selling these superior instru-
ments at prices and on terms demanded foV the
lower grades, and success lias crowned their efforts.
They do by far the largest business, and hold the
largest stocks in the colonies. They give their best
efforts to suit the circumstances and requirements of
every customer, and they supply for cash or on an easy
system of Time-payment which they have made pecu'iarly
their own. The correspondence department is of itself a
huge undertaking; every mail brings its burden of letters.
From the great landowner, from the rich squatter, and
the astute merchant they come. And they came too
from clergymen, from doctors and solicitors, front civil
servants, and from the struggling selector, the tradesman,
the workingman ; for fathers and mothers of every grade
and class now recognise the influence which music exerts
for good in the life of the home. And every writer re-
ceives courteous attention and immediate response.
Hapsburg Double Iron-framed Pianos
Possess the following Advantages —
-Ist. —The wires are of a very high quality and in-
tensely sensitive ; their vibrations, reverberated
by a sounding board of special construction, are
clear and bell-like, instead of the muffled, tin-
kettly, or metallic sounds so common in cheap
Pianos.
2nd.—Being double oblique the strings are of a
greater length and fuller tone than in the old
straight-strung Pianos.
3rd. —The action is perfect check repeater, and is
made of pencil cedar, an expensive material,
and best for resisting climatic changes.
4th.— All tl re Hapsburar Pianos are Trichord.
sth.—They are all seven Octaves.
6th.—They have consolidated Iron Frames of
great strength, thus resisting the rapid muta-
tions of a tropical climate, whereby tuning is
only required at long intervals.
7th. —They oppose obstacles to the inroads of cock-
roaches, silver-fish, mice, &c. They have wire
gauze backs which cannot be eaten by vermin,
and other unique improvements devised for
similiar ends.
Bth. —The Felts are Clinched on the Hammers,
instead of being fastened only by glue, as is the
case with nearly every Piano except the Haps-
burg.
9th.—They have brass or nickel-faced Wrest-
planks, instead of the old-fashioned perishable
style.
10th.—Rust is guarded against, wherever possible,
by the substitution of bronze for other metals.
11th.—The outer cases are handsome in design,
and of durable beautiful woods; they can be
had in walnut, or in walnut and gold, or in
ebony and gold.
12th.—No matter in what part of the colony you
live, we will supply you with a Hapsburg Piano
upon easy terms of payment. No charge will be
made for packing or for packing cases.
Hapsburg Pianos. Haydn Organs.
Photographs and Price-lists by post or from our
own travellers everywhere.
Business Announcements.
William Flemming,
MERCHANT and IMPORTER,
22 & 24 Clarence Street
(Corner Margaret >St.),
SYDNEY.
•)
St. James’ Buildings
(WILLIAM STRKKT),
MELBOURNE.
Fleming's
RELIABLE
Buggies.
\
Hig'h-Olass Bug'g’ies, S*laao4osas,
Wag'g’osis aiac* Juariaess.
o
Farm Waggons,
Express Waggons.
CARTS
For One and Two Passengers.
%
*>>
#
I
x
Cn
PIBZI
mm
ItSliiliilSl
, H
fllllillMiS f 7l
muiww
Ur. \0
m
rr\
XV»
ò
68
CLARENCE
SYDNEY.
AGENTS
in New South Wales.
TRIUMPH
ofThe Good 5 pirtt OVER Bad-
Used in hospitals throughout the world in preference to
best French Brandy. TRY IT.
oo
ò
FROM
Neuralgia,
Nervousness,
Headaches,
Biliousness,
Wasting Disease, Debility, &0., &c.,
When yon can be Cured
BY USING
LARMERS
TONIC.
CELEBRATED
Price, 2s. 6d. and 55.; Post, Is
Extra
CAINS and €«., Chemists,
78 KING ST., SYDNEY.
For Sale b) all Chemists*
M. W. & Co.
HUNGARIAN
NATURAL APERIENT WATER,
For Constipation, IMigtstioi
o
Ul
iU
Stomach & Liver Complaints
OF ALL CHEMISTS IN AUSTRALASIA
The Natural Mineral Waters of
{STATE
ò
SPRINGS.)
GRIHDB-GRILLE.—For Affections of the
Liver, Biliary Organs, &c.
CELESTIMS.—For the Kidneys, Gravel, Goat
i Rheumatism, Diabetes, &o.
HOPITAL.—For Stomach Complaints.
HAUTERIYE,—An excellent Table Watm,
or ALL CHEMISTS IN AUSTRALASIA.
Business Announcements.
MASON BROTHERS,
MX
LIMITED.
2C3 to 269 KENT STREET,
SYDNEV,
Have always m Stock for Sai.k to tha
ikkif ami li Iwletale Buyer* Only,
£ionmongcrv. tmd
(lENEKAI. HAHDWAUE
Glass, ( Itina and
EA RTIIENWAH K.
I VIMS, JIHI-JtS ,b SPIRITS,
AND GENKKAt,
JICI.K AIERCHANDISK.
Agents for
.1 < 11 N WAI.KF.It and SONS
Old Highland Whisky.
1,1 CIEN FOUCAI ED & CO.’S
Old I.randies.
.1. T. G A YEN’S,
Schnapps and Geneva.
A. AI EI.V I N and SON S’
Edinburgh I’ale Ale.
SEJM D _TO
DEpc 23 J\r jES.ST KLIN<3-,
SCENIC AMI PORTRAIT PHOTOGRAPHER,
cl 6 GEORGE GTREET, SYDNEY,
- FOR
< utn'oyuc of the most Complete Series of Views to
be obtained in Australia.
•Jeuo’an Caves, Hawkesbury and Nepean Rivers,
Blue Mountains, Harbour and Coast Views,
Victorian and New Zealand Views.
Groups of Australian Aboriginals and South Sea
Island Natives, &c., &c.
3. H. SMITH & SON,
MANUFACTURERS Sr IMPORTERS OF
JlfliFg ?{]\lD 0/1 Pg,
302 George Street, Sydney,
3 Doors South of Hunter Street.
mm
M
A Large Assort
aient of English and
French Goods, from
the best Makers to
choose from.
Every description
of HATS and CAPS
made to Order.
Medical.
.
V
TO YOUTSTG M! £S 3XT.
DR. FLETCHER S
TREATISE OX NERVOUS DISEASES* THEIR CAUSE,
SYMPTOMS, TREATMENT, AND CURE.
directions contained in this little treatise will be
found of immense benefit to the sufferer; and if these
directions are observed during the early stages of Nervous
or Sexual Debility, A’o Medicines will be required, as, by
observing the directions given, the patient can Cure Him-
self.
This admirable little treatise is specially written to
show a method of counteracting the evil effects of indis-
cretions in early life—overwork, irregularity in eating or
drinking, &o. It is the result, of niuch study and long
and successful experience in the treatment of diseases,
and contains a fund of useful information to every suf-
ferer from the following complaints, viz.:—Nervous
Debility, Dizziness, Specks before the Eyes, Pains in the
Back, Defective Memory, Loss of Will Power, Loss of
Energy, Spermatorrhoea, Bashfulness, Discontentedness,
Constipation, Liver and Kidney Derangements, Atrophy,
Impotence, Impure Blood, Foul Taste in Mouth, Palpita-
tion of Heart, Wakefulness, Despondency, Excessive Ner-
vousness, Inability to Marry, Premature Decay, and other
symptoms experienced by nervous sufferers.
AH Should Send for this Little Treatise.
If the complaint is of long standing and requires
medicine, Dr. Fletcher will GUARANTEE TO CURE
ANY CASE OF NERVOUS or SEXUAL DEBILITY
with ONE COURSE OF MEDICINES LASTING FIVE
WEEKS, and will send with medicines A WRITTEN
GUARANTEE to cure same or return the monies paid.
Dr. Fletcher’s treatment is both simple and effective,
and within the reach of the poorest. It is unlike any
other, and with it he has cured over 25,000 patients, and
invites patients to investigate Ms statements by verifying
the testimonials published in his treatise. The treatise
will be forwarded on receipt of two stamps to cover
postage.
CONSULTATION BY LETTER, FREE.
Address in first instance—
DR. H. EWART FLETCHER,
Box 1417, G. P.O,
Sydney, N.S.W.
Private address—Clonmel House, Waverley, Sydney.
Remember, all cases undertaken, guaranteed, and a
signed agreement given, which provides that NO COST
be incurred by the patient if a cure is not effected.
VARICOCELE RADICALLY CURED WITHOUT
OPERATION.
Mention this Paper.
IN THE PRESS,
“-A. G-OLDEIT SHANTY,”
By “BULLETIN” WRITERS.


Xjltt’zbeie’Coil east e
A pleasantly-situated Property, thoroughly cleared, close to Liverpool Station. Torrens’ Title. £1 deposit; 10s. per month.
.A.. ‘W. STEPHEU, 28 CASTLBEEAGH STREET, S YIDZtsTIE'Sr.
“ Golden Sllcillty.” K3T A Selection from the brightest of the original literary matter which has made The Bulletin world-famous. Price, la. : posted, od. extra
The Australian Mercantile Loan and
Guarantee Co. (Limited).
Head Office:
Corner of Market ami Vork Slreels, SVIIMA.
Melbourne—2B3 Oollins-street East.
Brisbane —Corner Edward and Elizabeth Streets.
Newcastle -27 Hunter-street.
Directorate :
FRANK .T. SMITH, Esq., M.L.A., Mabanfinsr Director.
J. I>. HOWE, Esq., M.L.A. O. J. FINEAYSON, Esq.
E. H. BUCHANAN, Esq. JAMES MILLER, Esq.
The Company grant immediate advances upon
Deeds of Land, Bills of Lading, Merchandise,
Storage, and Bond Certificates, and all classes of
mercantile and other approved securities, for fixed
terms or repayable by instalments.
Interest Allowed on Deposits:
3 months ... G per cent.
« „ 7 „
12 „ 8
A. MILLER ... General Manager.
-THE-
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL
FIRE
Insurance Society.
Established ... ... 1572.
Bonuses
OK
20 per cent. Paid Annually
since 1873.
Mead Office
-THE
Oldest Mutual Fire Office
in Australia.
Claims promptly and liberally
settled. Fifteen days’ grace
allowed for Renewal of Policies.
Lowest Current Rates charged.
Hon. fteori/e Thornton, M.L.C.,
Chairman.
Head Office:
Corner Pitt Si King Streets,
SYDNEY.
Walter Church
Manager.
THE
Australian Banking Company,
LIMITED.
PITT aMil MARKET STREETS, SYDNEY,
Incorporated under the. Companies Act, 187 U.
Authorised Capital, £500,000, in 100,000 Shares of £5 each.
Subscribed Capital, £75,000.
FRANCIS ABIGAIL, M.L.A.,
Chairman of the Board of Directors,
A Branch of the Bank has been opened at Ooulburn
under the management of 0. H. Atkinson, Esq. (lately
Branch Manager of the Bank of New South Wales) for the
transaction of General Banking Business.
The Bank has paid its Shareholders a dividend of 10 per
cent, every half-year since its formation.
The Bank transacts all usual banking business in every
particular. .
Special advantages granted to Commercial Clients.
Overdrafts granted against deposit of Deeds.
THE highest rates of interest given for
FIXED DEPOSITS.
The Share Register is now open (or the allotment of
Shares—New Issue.
By order of the Board of Directors.
RODERICK M'NAMARA, Manager.
Forms of application for Shares may be obtained at the
Bank.
GEORGE ST.,
SYDNEY.
ò
GEORGE ST.,
SYDNEY,
CAKE OR BISCUIT CASKET,
Electro Silver on Nickel, Price £5 ss.
OAK LIQUOR FRAME, Cut Bottles, Price i '2 15s.
riiTY
MUTUAL FIRE INSURANCE
COMPANY, Limited.
Established 1877.
Capital
£500,000.
Head Office:
25 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY.
A Cash Bonus of 10 per cent, is paid to Policyholders
CENT, to Policyholders will, as usual, oc pain on re-
newal of their policies.
Money to Lend ox Approved Security.
y ii.—The Bonus paid is equal to that paid by any
Fire Company in Sydney.
-Tin:-
Electro-Magnetic
Massage Institute,
For the cure of—
Rheumatism Lumbago, Sciatica, Debility,
Gouty and Neuralgic Affections,
Muscular and Nervous Disorders
All Cases under Medical Supervision. Ladies
attended by specially-trained Nurses.
94 * DARLINGHURST * ROAD,
SYDNEY.
Attendance: 9to 1 a.in.; 7 to 10 p.m.
Process Protected by Letters Patent.
on renewals every year, insurances cuvct-mg ™ »,> .
Liirhtning or Gas* Explosion at Lowest Rates.
The DIVIDEND of 8 PER CENT, to 31st December,
,oon ;« .An, K„i,trr r.nirl and The RONES Of 10 PER
ROBERT KERR, Manager.
AFTEBNOON
TEA-^ETP,
o
FRO 'I
£2 lEc- UPWARDS
o
Afternoon Tea-Set,
Electro Silver on Nickel,
Price (with lids to Sugar and Cream), £7.
I m'Tm
!! m : .•') nan
A LARGE
Assortment
OF
LIQUOR
FRAMES,
—FROM—
£2 15. TO £lO
EACH.
V'l'-
iv ct!4#3
//
« Tl
y
dfe^
’® \%As6'
It
,*;
7!°*
M-
V
ft
■ v
; a‘V-
-5098
A LARGE
ikssortixient
OK
DINNER CRUETS,
From 30s. to £8 10s.
LUNCHEON CRUETS,
From 10s. Gd. each.
FICKLE CRUFTS,
Fi o n 10s. Cd. each.
14in. SALVER ELECTRO SILVER on NICK El,
Price, £4 4p.
WRITE FOR OUR
Kew Illustrated Catalogue
OF
STERLING SILVER, ELECTRO SILVER, JEWELLERY.
CUTLERY, &c., POST FREE.
SIX CUP EGG-STAND.
Electro Silver on Nicke
Fr.ce, £4 ss.
q — a
m
A
D" O
SIX BOTTLE CRUET.
Electro Silver on Nickel —Richly cut Bottles.
I’rlco, f 4 1«*.
Our stock of ELECTRO ST LA ER P
QUALITY MANUFACTURED, ;
LATE is not only the LARGEST, but BEST ASSORTED in Australasia. We
in 1 always have on view in our extensive showrooms the newest and latest designs ii
import the
i all articles.
M
(—3
t?=J
bb
H l *" 11 j
*-d
L.
bd
READ THIS
Western Australia is a much richer colony than is
generally supposed as regards minerals, agriculture and
pastoralisin.— Sir Samuel Griffith.
Professor Brown, of Victoria, who made a thorough
examination of the south-western portion of Western
Australia, states that not the other colonies only, but
even the people of Western Australia evident ly do not
know how much there is waiting for development, lie
saw thousands of acres in contiguous blocks of fine choco-
late lands, light clay loams, and peaty soils. He thinks
the important features of the distiiot are its grand climate
and regular rainfall.
“ History repeals itself,” and as surely as Sydney and
Melbourne have made lightning-like progress, so will
PERTH,
the Capital of West Australia.
TEN POUND BUILDING SITES
at PERTH, WESTERN AUSTRALIA.
Large Allotments, Splendid Position, Good Land.
Only _€l deposit, easy terms ; discount for cash. Buyers
of five lots receive a free deed. Title (Torrens's) guaran-
teed to be indisputable.
Also, CITY LOTS, from 1 3'i each,
on similarly easy terms.
Marked plans and pamphlets posted to any address on
application to
THE INTERCOLONIAL INVESTMENT
COMPANY, Limited,
DC Bathurst-street, Sydney,
W. J. DOUGLAS, Manager.
CITY & COUNTY
Investment, Land, and Building
Company, Limited.
Authorised Capital, £lOO,OOO ... Reserves and Uncalled Capital, £37,000.
Rates for Deposits : 12 months, 7 per cent.; 0 months, 61 per cent.; at call, 5 per cent.
Bonus to 12 months’ Depositors.
Directors: J. Garrard, M.P., Hon. J. H. Young, M.P., J. P. Walker, J.P., John C. Hamilton.
J. D. Ward, Manager, 327 Pitt-street, Sydney.
o
327 PITT S T IR, IE IE T, S YDTTEY.


The Bulletin
Vol. H—No, 538.
SATURDAY, JUNE 7, 1890.
Price. 6 I.
o
ò
o
& J/JT jn
tr4P
77^/
THE N.S.W. PARTY PROCESSIONS REPEAL BILL: A GLIMPSE AT THE FUTURE


The Bulletin
The Rational Australian Newspaper.
“Australia for the Australians.'*
Proprietors : BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO.,
Limited,
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
A.T 21 Pitt-street, Sydney, New South Wales.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(payable in advance, only).
Per Annum ... ••• ••• ••• @ ®
Half-yearly ••• 0 1.1 6
Quarterly ... ... ••• ••• 0 G G
Cheque*, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Maclbod, Managing Director.
Literary Communications to he addressed to J. F.
Archibald.
The Editor mill carefully read and acknowledge in tne
“Correspondence” column all contributions submitted—
whether in the form of Political, Social, or other Articles,
Verse, Short Talcs or Sketches (those dealing with A us.
rralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in
length, or sag 3000 words, are specially acceptable).
Paragraphs, Letters, or newspaper-Clippings. All
communications will be regarded as strictly confidential.
“ The Bulletin” will return all unavailable MSS. when
the address is specified and stamps arc enclosed. But ire
desire those sending MSS. to distinctly undcistand that
ire are not responsible for the preservation or transmission
of such MSS.
nor ice.
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office T went g Shillings
sterling—which you may pay by Post Office Order, One
Pound note, or Stamps of any Australian colony—you
can have The Bulletin posted regularly to you every w«elc
for a year.
This offer is not open to residents of Sydney. In (hat
city The Bulletin is not delivered by mail, but is entirely
in the hands of our carriers, with whom we do not wish
to interfere.
Tj^^xxlleixai.
SATURDAY. JUNE 7, 1890.
The Hours of Toil.
The great want of the European labourer
is leisure. Under existing conditions that
leisure will never come. In England his
work averages eleven hours daily : in Fiance
and Germany twelve : in other countries
fifteen hours are his quota. To him cessation
of work, if not for hard-earned rest, is for
idleness ; rarely does it mean leisure. Idle-
ness—that is, time subtracted from necessary
employment—is ruin to the labourer and
danger to the State, while leisure, on the
contrary, being time not essential to the
procuring of necessaries, is a boon to the
individual and the mainspring of social pro-
gress. In Europe, as we have said, it is
either all work or all idleness, and the evils
of idleness are so obvious as to attract the
attention of even baby-thinkers.
* # •
Leisure as a condition has already been de-
scribed, as an instrument it may be defined
as the parent of social opportunity. If
further definition be needed, social oppor-
tunity may be taken to mean the absence of
restraints by which the capacity to acquire
wants or to develope the mind is repressed.
Buckle says “ Whatever the moral and in-
tellectual progress of man may be. it resolves
itself not into a progress of natural capacity,
but into a progress of opportunity—that is,
an improvement in the circumstances under
which that capacity, after birth, comes into
play." All progress is the fruit of oppor-
tunity. The opportunity of satisfying a
desire begets the desire, and Bastiat, in
common with other writers, shows that by
continuous satisfaction a desire becomes a
taste, a taste a want, and a want an imperi-
ous need that will not be denied. Further
than this, the satisfaction of wants generates
other desires, which in their turn become
wants as opportuniiies of gratification present
themselves, so that the larger the number of
wants which we develope, the larger also the
number we may be likely to acquire.
• # •
This is not a matter of metaphysical induc-
tion, but rather of common notoriety. It. is
(rue equally "f bodily wants as of mental
of nations as of individuals ; it is the explana-
tion of all progress, and of the continuous
advancement which the human race always
makes when in a position to freely exercise
legitimate desires. In the individual its
operation is very easily traced. The ill-fed
European labourer, when he makes Australia
his home, speedily acquires a taste for Aus-
tralian fare, which developes rapidly into a
need ; with a full stomach come desires for
liberty, and he who in Europe was a syco-
phant of lordlings becomes in Australia a
democrat. There is a curve known to
mathematicians as the cissoid, which begins
with scarcely a perceptible rise from the
horizontal, continuing this parallelism for a
while ; it presently shows a gap which in-
creases so perceptibly that the curve forsakes
the horizontal for a rapidly-ascending posi-
tion. Such is the path of progress which, as
we have said, is the creature of opportunity.
How, then, is this opportunity to be created?
* * #
To our mind the chief and most sure way
is by securing shorter hours. In vain are
there built and furnished Museums, ArtGal-
laries, and Libraries, if those for whom they
are intended do not have opportunity for
their enjoyment. With the leisure that short
hours afford, would come, gradually, to be
sure, but in all certainty, the appreciation of
Art and all that ministers to the finer feelings.
r Jhe development of taste would bring about
a demand for material comforts, and a
stronger appreciation of the things which
humanize the common lot. The demand and
the opportunity for its gratification would
make these comforts necessaries, and raise
ihe standard of living which 1 lie worker
would deem to be a necessary collocation of
his toil.’ It may be argued that the demand
might be never so strong, while the qualifica-
tion would be as far off as ever—that a man’s
sense of his own importance, may make him
desire wholesome and sufficient food for him-
self and his family, respectable clothes and
comfortable lodging, but his ability to pro-
vide these things may be entirely wanting.
This is not the case, as we shall show.
# # #
That the united labour of any country is
capable of producing sufficient to enable its
people to enjoy a larger share of products
than they now obtain, is rarely denied, nor
does there appear anything in the nature of
things to prevent such a distribution taking
place. The curse of our present system is
that while more than sufficient can be pro-
duced, less than sufficient reaches the
worker. It is computed that an equal dis-
tribution of what the labour of any country
can produce in any year would raise the
material condition of the labouring classes to
that now enjoyed by the so-called middle-
classes. Such being the case, how is it that
the life of the labourer is such a wretched
one ? This was the question that troubled
Wat Tyler and his men when they de-
manded—
When Adam delved and Eve span
IVho was then the gentleman ?
Wat and his peasants saw two things clearly
enough—they did the work and others
reaped the gain ; nor do we see that matters
have been mended very much since his day.
# # #
Let us cease from speculation awhile and
look at the matter through the medium of a
few figures relating to one of the Australias.
Take N.S. Wales: During the last three years
in that province 40 persons departed from this
vale of tears leaving behind them £4.227,00*);
in the same period there died 42,640 otheis
whose accumulations amounted to£8,042,000;
and of these latter. 37,728 had nothing to
leave ' The plain English of this is that
less than one-tenth per cent, of the popula-
tion own more than one-third the wealth of
the community, while 11 per cent, own the
other two-thirds, and the remaining 80 per
cent, have, of course, nothing. This is de-
lightful, reminding us so much of dear old
t ugland. It is obvious from the evidence of
our own eyes, even if we had not ample
proof from statistics that the distribution of
products is just, about as uneven as it could
well be. Let us turn it round another way.
It has been ascertained that the average
income of the Australian people is £42 per
head. Allowing 4| persons to a family the
average income of each would be £l7B.
That the average worker has more than £lOB
a year we very much doubt, so that the
worker produces from the natural resources
of the country three-fourths more than he
gets back for his support ! The process by
which the hulk of his earnings arc abstracted
Karl Marx calls exploitation. Which
raises a question we did not propose to dis-
cuss when we started this article.
# # #
To resume : It may be assumed as proven
that the sum total of the products of human
toil, if evenly distributed, would afford a
much larger share of material comforts to the
people producing them than they now enjoy.
Also that a labourer’s share of the product is
ordinarily sufficient to meet the demands of
the [least advanced] members of his class.
That this standard is below the equivalent of
the average production of the labourer.
That the most efficient means of raising the
standard of comfort is by affording the
labourer social opportunity, and this latter is
synonymous with leisure. That for the
labourer leisure means shorter hours. It
remains to be seen that shorter hours will
not only afford leisure, but abolish its worst
foe, idleness.
# * *
Let us assume t he average day s labour in
Europe I" be twelve boms If the eight
hour rule were general to compass the work
now done, would need 33 per cent, more
hands than at present find employment. On
an average about 7 to 10 per cent, of the
labouring class arc always out of employment,
8 per cent, are paupers maintained by the
State, and of the workers in employment 10
per cent, are women who should be at
domestic duties, and 5 to 8 per cent, are
children of tender years. It is clear, there-
fore, that if the hours were shortened com-
pulsory idleness would be abolished, able-
bodied pauperism would have no cause to
exist, children of tender years could be
released from toil, and women who should
be at home, would be set free. The advan-
tages of short hours are therefore that all
would find employment and all would have
leisure, which we have demonstrated is the
parent of all progress. The objections to the
scheme are these. The sudden introduction
of short hours would upset trade—to this we
say let it be not sudden but general. Again, if
eight hoursbegood, why not four, or even two?
To this we would say, if we were not serious,
why not twenty instead of twelve, why,
indeed, not twenty-three ? We have shown
what eight hours would do for Europe, viz.,
without decreasing production—abolish the
things that are now, after the military
system, its chief curse ; but no one claims
any special virtue in tne number eight. We
maintain, however, there is an economic
number of hours constitut ng a day’s work,
to wit, that number in which the average
labourer can produce what is necessary for
his subsistence and the maintenance of the
government under which he and his fellows
choose to live. We see no difficulty in ascer-
taining what this number is. It may, indeed,
differ in various countries, but it is always
the quotient, when the dividend is the pro-
duction required to maintain the whole body
of labourers and the government of the
country for one day, and the divisor is the
production of the average labourer in one
hour.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Too Monotonous.
“ Peuishfd through becoming too monotonous ”
will be the inscription over the dust of the
present Victorian Government when the country
at last gets rid of that legislative heirloom. The
Gii.liks Administration ha distinctly seen its beet
days, and the province is gradually falling away
from its allegiance on tile ground that the old in-
stitution makes it fed exhausted. There is a
weariness in the ghastly 'espectability of the
Coalition Cabinet—an awful » oneness in its high
moral attitude ; it is the political embodiment of
the good young man who didn't die, and a certain
used-up feeling which prevails among the consti-
tuencies is the first sign o' a re volt against an era of
legislative melancholy, 'i here is no very tangible
complaint to make against the lion. Duncan and
his colleagues—only the Victorians, like the
Israelites of old, have got tired of hash. The
Government, it is true, has grovelled a good deal,
but then the Opposition has grovelled with equal
vigour and enthusiasm. It has muddled up the
railway administration to a considerable extent,
till at last the cobwebs have begun to accumulate
in the special express train, and the traveller who
is in ha-tc prefers to hire a wheelbarrow propelled
by a clippie for the sake of the extra velocity thus
acquired; but judging from the mental calibre of
the men on the other side of the House, they will
probably inaugurate a system under which a fly
in a glue-pot will race against the petrified
iron horse, and leave that protracted fossil
hopelessly behind. It has muddled the
finances to some slight extent, so that an
expected surplus of a. million and three-quarters
turned out to be in actual fact merely a surplus of
To*M,0(10, but then there is no financial genius in
Mr. Mvnko’s following who is likely to prove a
better shot, and whereas the piesent Treasurer
managed at least to cripple his surplus at long
range, the chances are that any possible successor
would miss it altogether. All the ostensible
reasons put forth to account for the growing
public dissatisfaction are too thin ; the real grief
is that the Cabinet has got to be monotonous.
The Premier’s mirthless smile makes the country
wish it were dead. His mild, unobtrusive aspect
makes the country half-inclined to wish he were
dead, too. The amendment wh'ch the country
wants to move is to the effect that the Ministry is
too ordinary and solemn and commonplace to be
endured much longer—that it is too plain and too
woefully respectable. Nobody ever raises a bright
and refreshing row in the Victorian Assembly
now. Nobody swears in the pleasant, affable way
which creates an agreeable oasis in the great
sandy desert of debate in the other colonies. The
average New South Wales statesman can offer up
cuss language for seventy-five minutes without
repeating the same profanity twice, but the most
powerful expressions habitually used by the Vic-
torian Ministry are mild compared to those in an
ordinary hymn. When the Government does get
into a rage its indignation is like unto the indig-
nation of the clam or the unobtrusive whelk, and
its fury is akin to the fury of the angry bun at a
Sunday school spread. It wears a charitable
smile which gets tedious after long acquaintance.
Tt is solid and ponderous after the manner of
Uncle Pumiu.echook. It has a general expression
which seems to suggest that it takes care of its
aged grandfather, and is the sole supjxirt of a
venerated aunt and a family of ten orphans, all of
them of the most respectable habits. It looks as
if it had a small sum of money deposited in a very
secure bank somewhere as a provision for a rainy
day, and there is an ineffable something about it
which states distinctly that its mother died when
it was very young, and that it habitually goes
round and collects a flower off her. grave. There
is an aspect of humble remonstrance in its eye
which explains that it feels bad at the shortness of
the average ballet-girl’s attire, and even looking
at it from behind anyone can see that a person who
attempted to read an immoral poem to it would be
immediately given into custody, while an effort to
trade off an improper photograph would probably
be accompanied by fatal results to the vendor.
It looks as if it had been opened with prayer,
whereas the ordinary New South Wales Cabinet
looks as if it had been opened with drink, and
closed with blasphemy and an axe. Anybody
except a lunatic can see at the first glance that it
was born of poor but honest parents, and that
they left it to be brought up “ by hand ” by
an estimable female relative. It is the sort of
Government which might reasonably be expected
to suffer front cold feet, and to wear goloshes in
consequence, and it looks as if it was partial to
cats. It frequently wears a shocked expression,
and seems as if it were feeling hurt. Somebody
connected with it offered a second-hand humorous
observation away back in the year 1862, and that
uncalled-for levity has preyed on its mind ever
since. If it came across a low, depraved heathen
person who had nothing on except a ring stuck
through his nose it would give vent to a shriek and
leave the spot with great velocity, but it would
afterwards transmit to him through the post a
solemn tract which he would be unable to under-
stand. If it met him a second time it would
speak a few words of Christian remonstrance, and
urge him to be industrious and go to church regu-
larly. If it accidentally came out without its
umbrella, and anybody drew its attention to the
defect, it would utter the weird howl of a maniac
who had made an exhibition of himself, and send
in its resignation. The first impression which it
leaves on the mind of a stranger is that it is
striving to save up enough to buy a small annuity
for its old age, and is not getting along very suc-
cessfully in the attempt ; the second is that it is
longing to go out and do good. On closer inspec-
tion the observer becomes convinced that it
would sternly admonish any small boy whom
it found swearing on Sunday, and would
point out to him where he is likely to
go to when he dies, and ho can also faintly
picture the language that small bov would be
likely to use in reply, it is the sort of Cabinet
whi h alwavs wears its coat tightly buttoned up,
an 1 is careful not to sit on the tails ot that gar-
ment ; and as a natural consequence of these and
a number of other virtues the Gillies Administra-
tion is getting to be too monotonous. If it would
even go out and commit one refreshing sin that
had some originality about it the country would
feel better, but it never does ; it perpetrates some
old, respectable, monotonous, second-hand sin now
and then, and that is all. And, after all, the
chances are that, if it did take to the flowery paths
of dissipation, it would get drunk so respectably
that the public would not leel at all relieved ; and
if it left suddenly with a 1 -dy who didn’t belong
to it, it won d elope in such a moral and inexcep-
tion able manner that ordinary men who had never
eloped at all would feel bad and depraved by com-
parison. Therefore, the Coalition Government
begins to show signs of being in the sere and
yellow leaf, and when it dies the inscription above
its remains will set forth the fact that it perished
because its plain respectability had made upwards
of a million people leel exhausted for a long time,
till at last they couldn’t stand it any longer.
The Dominant Power in Western
Australia.
As illustration is better than theory we reprint
below portion of a letter written in all seriousness
by “ An Old Conservative ” to the West Austra-
lian of Bth May
For, sir, if we look back upon the history of even the
last decade of years what do we find? Do we find that
even apart froi'p politics we have benefited so largely from
the advent of these new-cotneis? Can they point to any-
thing which, as compared with its state ten years back, is
the better for their presence in the colony? Ten years
ago we were progressing quietly hut steadily. We did
not travel by leaps and hounds. Everything went on as
smoothly as could he and everybody was happy, fairly
prosperous, and well-to-do. Then we began to he
troubled with adventurers. At first they came
singly, or by twos and threes ; afterwards they
poured in in shoals. All manner of schemes were
projected by them, ostensibly for the general good, in
reality, many of them, to serve ends which were infinitely
more selfish than even the selfishness of wicked landed
conservatism, and were certainly nefarious. Some of the
arrivals, we know by their acts since, were most desirable
men, and we are glad they reaped their reward. We are
likewise glad that some of the others have also reaped
their reward. Some of the latter have levanted rich in
pocket, and poorer, if possible, in reputation than when
they arrived. Others have fled as penniless as they came,
only because justice was at their heels. Some, too,
have reluctantly gone into enforced retirement. It' is
gentlemen of this kind wc are determined to keep out of
Parliament, hence the property qualification. No doubt,
in doing so, we shall keep out men of brains, and even
honest men ; hut the colony has gone on so well under
the auspices ot “property,” and till a few years ago
everyone was so contented, that we can well afford to
retain the clause. If it were simply a question of country
it is possible the Conservatives would give way ; but it is
merely one of loaves and fishes to the “progressive”
partv.' It is pleasing to read of “certain persons ” acting
“as’ little Providences over their own and their
families’ fortunes,” and it will he more pleasing to
“Demos” and his friends to learn that we intend
to continue using our family influence, and ultim-
ately man the whole civil service with our -sous and
our nephews.- And, indeed, rather than “progress”
in the way we are asked to, the old Conservatives would,
almost to a man, prefer to go hack to the old days of
Crown Colony Government. So convinced am 1 that the
colony would he better off without those gentlemen who
compose the “progressive” party, that I would gladly
subscribe my £1 to a fund—if such were raised - to charter
a vessel and convey them far from the shores of a country
where they are not wanted.—Yours, &c.,
Ax Old Conservative.
By Cable.
The London Economist ment ions in the stertorous
way peculiar to that journal that it thinks those
branch-managers of the Bank of New Zealand
who have “been loyal to the institution ’’ should
keep their billets, and those who haven’t been
loyal should be sacked, and the intelligent corres-
pondent goes to the expense of cabling out that
flat and apoplectic platitude as a piece of valuable
advice. Why, of course, any manager who hasn’t
been “ loyal ” will be sacked. Aren’t they always
sacked ? Why doesn’t the correspondent telegraph
out that the STANDARD is inclined to consider
that any high official in the bank who habitually
chases a large depositor down the street with a
boomerang ought to be suspended, and that many
important financial authorities are inclined to
think that the practice of keeping the coals in the
safe and stowing the bank’s securities out in the
hen-house is contrary to the. best interests of the
institution ? Also, we would be glad to know by
cable, regardless of expense, if the Times is of
opinion that an accountant who drives the Board’s
hat down over its ears by banging that
august body on the head when it isn’t look-
ing should be refused a rise of salary, or if
the Statist holds that an officer suffering from
incurable lunacy ought to have a minute made
about him by the directors? Further, we want
the intelligent correspondent to cable whether it
is considered advisable by leading English experts
that the cash should be short when the auditor
comes round, and whether the practice of having
aboriginal bookkeepers ought not to be dis-
couraged? In fact, we want all sorts of useless
information on the subject of banking, or any
other subject, always provided that it is of exclu-
sively British origin. If the. London Economist
is of opinion that it is unhealthy to be in front of a
cannon when it goes off, or that long-continued
hanging is generally fatal, or that there are mile-
stones on the Dover-road, or that a verb ought to
agree with its nominative provided it can be done
without bursting the nominative and making the
verb feel exhausted, we wish to be made aware of
the fact right off. What is the use of England
either, for that matter, if we are unable to profit
by the learning and accumulated culture which
she diffuses around her when she states through
the medium of the press that a British prince
looked with a weary, unintelligent, far-away
expression at a sample of Australian butter,
and was graciously pleased to notice that there
was a fly in it ? What is the use of anything at all,
in fact, under such circumstances* 'We feel com-
pelled to catch hold of some heavy article of
furniture to prevent onr emotion lifting us off
our feet as we think of what this country would
come to if it hadn’t these solid truths to keep it in
a state of intellectual activity. Supposing the
cable breaks some day, and we are cut off from
these accustomed sources of inspiration, and-the
London correspondent is fainting at the pump at


the other end of the crippled wire in his vain
efforts to telegraph out that some choice financial
noodle thinks that any bank-manager located at
Sydney, near Dunedin, in the country of Victoria
and province of Queensland, who has done some-
thing he ought not to have done, should have
something done to him, in a manner of speaking,
and ought to be looked upon more or less with an
unfavourable eye in a mitigated sort of way, and
consequently that valuable fact can’t get through
in time for us to profit by it ! Where will Austra-
lia be under these disastrous conditions? In
ruins, most probably, and the inscription above
its dust will set forth that it died for want of in-
formation, and perished miserably through its
own dense colonial ignorance.
+
An Old Legal Relic.
Some years ago a feeble attempt was made in New
Zealand to sort out the chaos of old, spavined,
broken-down laws which that colony, in common
with its neighbours in Australia, had inherited
from the beloved mother-land, with a view to
repealing the more ancient and useless of the
debris and placing matters on a coherent basis for
the future. The scheme came to nothing, for the
legislators of the island colony quarrelled and
wrangled oyer the deposit of decomposed statutes
which their researches brought to light, and
clawed eloquently at each other about which old
monument should be preserved and which should
be thrown into the ash-heap, and so the shifting
waste of law was left in its ancient, chaotic state,
and nobody knows to this day whether he is
liable to be hanged under an old statute concern-
ing heresy, or is merely exposed to the risk of 25
years’ imprisonment and to lose his ears at the end
of that period, and to be branded in several
places, and then be expelled from the country and
have ail his goods confiscated. The one solid fact
revealed after long research was that there are
enough forgotten laws in existence to hang nearly
everybody, and a few over which would afford
good and sufficient reason to put the survivors
in a large bag along with a grindstone and
drop them at midnight into a swiftly-flowing
river. There are provisions still in force concern-
ing pillories and stocks and thumbscrews, and
elaborate enactments against heretics, and persons
who dabble in occult arts, and individuals who
secretly think evil of the reigning monarch, and
among the du t of the worn-out codes of past ages
there was found one valuable and enlightened
statute setting forth that anyone perpetrating or
attempting to perpetrate an outrage on a female
sovereign shall be burnt alive, after all necessary
steps have been taken, by dislocating the offender
or by boiling oil or other persuasive influences, to
extract information as to the objects which
he had in view. Probably if the investiga-
tion had been carried further, it might have
revealed a few more regulations for remov-
ing the eyes of certain offenders or for extir-
pating the entire families of particularly ob-
noxious criminals, but it stopped short at the law
for burning the person who assaulted a female
sovereign, and the work was never completed.
The scheme for sorting out the tangled labyrinths
of law broke down, apparently because the legis-
lators of New Zealand considered hanging too
light a punishment for such a crime, and didn’t
care to take the responsibility of stating on their
own authority that burning alive was the right
thing to meet the emergency. Probably it never
occurred to them that some compromise might be
effected—say by putting the criminal under the
pump for several hours prior to his execution, or
by making him drink two quarts of water all at
once, or by executing his grandmother along with
him ; nor does it seem to have struck them that
the chances of anything ever happening to a
female sovereign in New Zealand were so exceed-
ingly small that the whole collection of ancient bar-
barisms might as well be wiped off the statute-book
for the honour of the colony, and the sovereign be
allowed to take her chance. As inheritors of the
legal rubbish-heap of Britain, these colonies have
come into possession of a code which is calculated
to make even a cannibal sit up in dismay, and the
only reason why existence is possible under this
grand old system is that three-fourths of the
existing laws are never enforced, and at least half
of them are hardly known to be in existence at
all. But still they do exist, and are ready to be
raked up when a favourable opportunity presents
itself; and meanwhile blatant politicians continue
to rise—after dinner—and, having first got a
secure hold of the table and taken other necessary
steps to prevent the room going round, to pour
forth their admiration of that far-reaching British
constitution which passes all human understand-
ing, and which hangs round in an unobtrusive
fashion with a stake and a bonfire looking for the
man who wants to insult a female sovereign.
■ — j f ♦
Saint McLood.
The saintly Doctor John McLeod, parson and
medico, got married in Sydney some years
ago to a lady who, after listening to his oily
voice, was soft enough to give up £llOO a year
out of £IOOO annual income conditionally
bequeathed to her by her deceased husband,
in order that Dr. McLeod might be her very
own. After a short and tempestuous time they
went to America, where the holy man got
“divorced” without his wife’s knowledge, and
under other apparently fraudulent circumstances.
Yet, however managed, the deed was done in due
legal form, as the copy of the American official
record and the evidence of the IJ.S. Consul at
Sydney seem to show. Thereafter good Doctor
McL eod married in America another lady,
named Cameron —and here comes in the charge
of bigamy on which he was convicted last
week. Now, McLeod couldn't have com-
mitted bigamy if his American divorce was suffi-
cient—and Consul Griffin, who is an American
lawyer, has testified that to the best of his belief
it was valid : anyhow, there is the official divorce
duly signed, sealed and delivered, and as we have
no direct evidence impugning its authenticity, the
prisoner is entitled to the benefit of the doubt. The
Yew South Wales Supreme Court in rejecting the
United States divorce and punishing McLeod
mr bigamy committed in a foreign land has, we
take it, sat in judgment on the decision of a foreign
tribunal. It is all very well to say that, consider-
ing the prisoner’s and witnesses’ statements as to
times and places of domicile, etcetera, the alleged
divorce could not have been legally obtained, but
that is altogether beside the question. How can
you go behind the American Court’s decision
which, it is to be presumed, enabled McLeod
to legally re marry in America ? Nor can you
infer bigamy from the fact that the prisoner
on returning to Sydney, proceeded to blackmail
his first (and as he now says) divorced wife—from
whom he had concealed his alleged divorce-—and
endeavoured to obtain her consent to a res-
cission of the judicial separation which had
been pronounced between them in New South
'vales at her instance. That does not prove
that ho had not been divorced, though it
certainly tends to prove that he was an
unblushing rascal and may help to explain the
enthusiasm with which lie was found guilty by the
jury. His second marriage, like his alleged
divorce, took place in America, and if it was good
enough for the Americans, it is not a trouble
which should be taken on to the shoulders of the
New South Wales taxpayers. How can the New
South Wales Court accept a formal American
marriage as evidence as a man’s guilt, and yet
reject an apparently formal American divorce as
evidence of his innocence? We are sorry for the
Mistresses McLeod, and can only hope that their
sad case will help in the direction of the assimila-
tion of the world’s marriage-laws.
4.
Vale, Henry George.
Henry George’s latest and last Sydney lecture,
entitled “Protection a Fallacy,” was delivered to
a crowded and enthusiastic house. Mr. George,
who has since dined with Mayor Buruekin, a rent-
grabber and land-monopolist, was accompanied to
the platform, not only by his local disciples, but
by several prominent alleged Freetraders, chief
among whom was Mr. G. H. Reid, his chair-
man for the night. The lecture was the
single-tax apostle’s most practical and care-
fully-thought-out Sydney utterance, though
one cannot but smile at the calm manner
in which he, professing to deal with
every question from the standpoint of natural
laws and abstract ideas of justice and freedom,
strives to escape from the cul-de-sac in which that
places him over the Chinese exclusion question, by
discussing it as an expediency the result of the
present unequal and artificial social conditions.
The most ardent Protectionist does no more; he
fully recognises the beauty, the naturalness of
entire freedom of trade in theory, and deplores the
necessity in some cases for prohibitory measures in
practice. As for George’s peroration withits “rally-
ing cry— Freetrade, free land, free men,” it was all
tommyrot. At the beginning of his career the
Prophet of San Francisco started out to annihilate
poverty by the throwing open of natural resources
to all; he has halted half-way, nay turned aside,
and his system is now a mere engine for the raising
of the funds necessary to the carrying on of Govern-
ments ; in fact, he now strives merely to alter a
fiscal system and not the entire social condition.
If you admit the truth of George’s premises that
the land is the property of all and not of indi-
viduals and that its alienation into private hands
is the chief cause of the world’s poverty, then there
can be no logical stopping-place short of the con-
clusions arrived at by his once ardent follower H. O.
Pentecost, who argues that the only valid titles
to land are productive use and residential occupancy
and asserts that all vacant land not reserved for com-
munal use should be at once thrown open to the
selection of the first man who will properly utilise
it. Henry George has told us that the single-tax
will amply provide for all the necessities of the
State, also that its imposition will at once inde-
finitely lower the value of land by abolishing its
selling-value, furthermore that he would only con-
fiscate the unearned increment of the future. We
have in vain challenged Mr. George to produce
his plans and specifications, and we again ask him
to dovetail these three apparently contradictory
propositions.
4
Two newly-arrived English ladies named Reed,
good and well-intentioned, no doubt, but morally
swivel-eyed all the same, have started lec-
turing in Australia for funds and volun-
teers for some Chinese mission or other.
Let them, instead of tinkering with the
people of another civilization, go back to their
native England, in which country an unhappy,
heroic workman starved himself to death seven
weeks ago that his children might be fed. While
there remains in the fatherland of these ladies one
Caucasian. toiler in such a case, they can well
afford to postpone the task of providing moral
pocket-handkerchiefs for the Chows, who are, to
tell the truth, a far more pious people
than the English, in that J ohn Chinaman
is fool enough to really and truly be-
lieve in Joss and Confucius, and so on;
whereas the hypocritical John Burl obviously
only gammons to believe in the things and per-
sonages he sets up for the edification of the
unsophisticated and imitative people whom he
thrashed into accepting his accursed opium
not many years ago. To verbosely para-
phrase a Bismarckism, the temporal and
eternal welfare of the whole Chinese nation,
rump and stump—past, present, and future—
is not, while the British rich continue to
bury themselves in diamonds and roses and the
poor to rot to death in foetid dens, worth one
bone from the frail skeleton of an English pauper’s
child. Perhaps, however, it will be good to give
a little encouragement to Chinese missions. When
J. Bull gets a fair grip of Chowland, Ah Sin
will begin to guzzle nun and relieve the jim-jams
with morphine; also to scoot with his neighbour’s
wife and start Cleveland-street clubs, after the
fashion of the very best people in England. This
will make J ohnny Atkins Ah Foo very rocky on
his pins and be a distinct handicap on him in the
inevitable march West of the Great Yellow Army
of the near or distant future.
■
The other day the Sydney police hauled up a man
for trial whoso name they calmly gave from the
official record as “ Smith, alias Tommy the
Burglar.” The Sydney police ought to be kicked
and so ought any judge or justice who permits this
kind of thing. Ltd a prisoner be tried and convicted
first under his own name or the name he gives,
and then let them read out the whole string of
his possibly-police-invcnted aliases if they like. So
far as a square trial goes, you might as fairly
arrest Henry George for sedition and place him
at the bar as “George, alias the Incendiary of
Confiscation,” or dump down a distinguished poli-
tician behind the spikes as “Frogson, alias the
Chronic and Unprincipled Insolvent,” as ticket
an accuse with a damning name. When
next Constable 4298 X is falsely charged with
allowing a prisoner to escape, or with deliberately
knocking a drunken man’s skull against the kerb-
stone, or jumping on him in the cells, let us have
him labelled in the dock as “P.-C. Smith, 4298 X,
alias the Great Pie-Biting Man-Walloper.” It’s
a poor system that won’t work both ways.
4
The Sydney “council of the churches” — i.e. , th e
Parsons’ Trade Union —met the other day in th e
Y.M.O.A. rooms and passed tw r o resolutions, on e
“thanking God that by the decision of tlffi
Supreme Court it has been demonstrated tluJ
Sunday entertainments for which payments are
made are illegal in New South Wales; ” the
second expressing its deep regret that Government
should meditate legislation in an opposite direc-
tion. The “council,” having accorded God a
vote of thanks for the Supreme Court decision
will doubtless censure God should Parliament
legalise Sunday entertainments. There is nothing
like being logical,
4
New South Wales Attorney-General Simpson has
given way in re his cold-blooded lawyer-like pro-
posal that in erimuial cases women should be corn-
pelled to give evidence against their husbands and
vice-versa. The proposal was alike cruel, stupid
and impracticable. By the time men and women
are schooled up to‘the judicial impartiality of that
Mayor of Galway who hanged his own son, Love,
which helps Hate to rule all things, will have gone
from the world ; and there is no one who ought to
know better than the courtly G. B. Simpson that
love, like hate, is eternal. Any man who is human
will commit a million prejuries to save the wife
he loves; any woman, who as a woman is
worth a curse, will perjure herself on ten thousand
cartloads of Bibles to save her children and her
husband —even if she does not really love
him, but only loves her amour proprc. You
have only to look at the records of the Divorce-
courts, or if you like the records of the Courts of
Petty Sessions in their bastardy jurisdiction, to
see what hopeless perjury is inevitably the result
of oases directly involving sexual relations. How
can you establish or punish perjury-in such cases ?
Look at the great Gympie case the other day. The
respondent and co-respondent solemnly asserted
that they had not committed adultery, yet the
jury found to the contrary and fined Tronson
£2250. Who thinks of prosecuting Tuonson for
the perjury he must have committed if the jury,
whose verdict is final, found a right verdict ? in
this regard let the unsentimental law continue in
its world-old track—a track hard-beaten by the
footsteps of a hundred generations of jurists ere
there was born into the world anybody by the
name of Simpson.
♦
Michafl B 4RRY has been hanged at Foe' hampton
(Q.) after being found guilty on the direction of a
judge who took it upon himself to say straight out
ere the man had been convicted, that it was the
jury’s bounden duty to cast him for death. The
execution carries with it no moral for the public
good, except the old one on which The Bulletin
has so often insisted—that as juries’recommenda-
tions to mercy are almost uniformly rejected, the
people must take out of the hands of the judge
and put into the hands of the jury the power of
fixing sentences. Barry’s deed, brutal as it was,
was clearly the act of an irresponsible man, and
his end will deter no other man of his mental
calibre from doing just what he is goaded on to do
by drink or any other sufficient exciting cause. The
gallows never deterred a murderer since the year
One, B.c. The man who really means to slay
either is bent on revenge and does not care—until
after the deed, when his fear comes too late ; or
he reckons on escaping detection —every criminal
thinks himself so much cleverer than every other
preceding one, and has before him examples which
he thinks will enable him to avoid the pitfalls into
which his predecessors slipped. As conscience
make cowards, so custom makes brutes. The
spectacle of the State hiring a man-butcher to
choke a citizen and then hump away his carcase
from the gallows, like the corpse of a slaughtered
sheep, is, so far from its being a deterrent, a mere
subsidy to the Spirit of Assassination. Civiliza-
tion is not even skin-deep, and the crowd, being
debarred from enjoying the actual spectacle-
edifying in theory—of a fellow-creature being done
to death, patiently loaf outside the judicial
abattoirs at the time of an execution, or gloat over
the newspaper reports afterwards.
——■— :
T ifteen drapers of >St. Kilda (Mclb. ) have vindi-
cated Deakin's Early Closing Act in a manner
that should effectually shut up its Tory opponents.
The local council of St. Kilda borough took upon
themselvf s, as many other councils have done, to
nullify the Act of Parliament with a miserable
little by-law, extending the compulsory closing
time by two hours on five nights of the week and
one hour on Saturdays. That is to say, the
council fixed the times at 9 o’clock and 11 o’clock,
instead of 7 and 10. The fifteen drapers aforesaid
now pray for a repeal of the by-law, so that they,
and their competitors, may be amenable to the
statute. They have tried late closing and find
that “it is not worth their while keeping open
after the statutory hours.” It is not pretended
that the drapers are suffering from high motives,
or drew up their petition in a spirit of special
kindness to their employes. They merely testify
to the fact that their customers have adopted a
custom of early shopping which makes the old late
closing game no longer worth the candle —or the
gas.
The Victorian Ministry is likely to be (or may
already have been) cornered by the want of confi-
dence motion which “Charley” Taylor substi-
tuted for Munro’s original flabby indictment.
“That the expenditure of the colony has been
unduly increased owing to the misleading state-
ment of the Treasurer in the last session of Parlia-
ment” is a truth so pure and beautiful that only
the cast-iron conscience of political partisanship
could withstand it. In short, if Parliament were
what it professes to be, viz., a body of patriots
voting according to their honest convictions, the
amendment would be seconded by Duncan
Gillies himself, and carried unanimously. It is
seldom that an amendment embodies a plain,
straightforward fact, admitting of no ingenious
contortions or legitimate discussion. The pot
calls the kettle black, and the Ministerial utensil
is black. Yet, as members in all parts of the
House are relying upon the Coalition Government
to stifle the Premier Permanent Society prosecu-
tions, they will perhaps see cause for maintaining
the kettle’s purity a while longer.
Men who know something about the subject will
tell you that the “ Sweating System ” in the Mel-
bourne tailoring trade (and a very limited system
it is) has its origin in the chuckle-headed obstinacy
of the old-fashioned “home ” tailor. None of the
big tailoring firms give any facilities for working
in other but the cross-legged style, so that Polish
Jews and all varieties of (icings who have followed
their craft in the States, are forced to work at
home, where they can stand at a table and get
through 50 per cent, more sewing than the miser-
able worms who squat upon a floor because it was
the custom of their ancestors. Working tailors
appear to be divided into two classes in Melbourne
or any other Australian town—dull, slow English-
men, and intelligent, greasy foreigners. Among
these latter we don’t include a few smart Ameri-
cans. Of young colonials there are few who
wear a tailor’s thimble, either sitting or standing.
They may aspire to cut clothes but they show no
native ambition to make ’em up, which, consider-
ing that a “ first-class ” suit is occasionally hitched
together for 10s. fid., shows that the rising genera-
tion knows its way along the paths of industry
and doesn’t get bogged on a bad road.
—
Lecturing on Australian Nationality at Charters
Towers, Canon Tucker, among other sensible
things, remarked that—
The only difference between man and man that thev
could acknowledge was one of function. In the way of
illustration take the (Jueeu of England and the poor
washerwoman who toils from morning till night in an
endeavour to gain the means of sustenance. Which was
the better woman? What was the difference between
the two? In what did they differ? Function.
The better woman would be she who did her
work best. (Applause.) There were Australians
who dreamt of an Australian monarchy, with ill
ordered grades of nobles, with its titles, its privileges
its ribbons, its crosses, and its stars. They who follow
the star which Milton’s soul for Shkllky’s lighted, ha\ a
another, and, as they thought, a nobler vision, lie did
not believe in conferring on any man distinction above
another. He did not believe in a one-man Government,
a one-man church, a one-man institution of any kind.
Titles were odious and absurd. He did not like to hear
the terms “ honourable,” “ lord,” “ reverend,” he did not
agree with, he could not see the use of giving to a man
titles he in no way earned. They saw' an Australia, in
which was neither privilege or rank, in which no man-
made distinctions separated man from man ; in which
there were no nobles save those of nature’s making ; but
in which all women were peers, pares, equal; in which
every office was open to every man and woman ; in which
goodness gave the greatness, and the only honour ren-
dered was that which was due to merit. (Tremendous
applause.) Was not such a state worth working, waiting,
praying for? (Applause.) Better men than they had
thought it worth dying for. (Cheers.) Republicans know
of no authority in matters political, save that of the per-
sons whom the matters concern.”
The Bulletin has not lived in vain ; the fiery
cross of Republican propaganda is passing from
hand to hr-ul. Canon Tucker’s reference to the
bebaubled dreams of the Australian Tory party,
reads strangely like a satire on the picture drawn
by Parkes —in one of the first of his Federation
speeches—of the painted glories of the Royal
Governor-General’s “Court.”
Mr. E. Hulme, of King River, Oxley (Vic.),
writes to the Australasian -
I know from 25 years’ Victorian experience that where-
ever the vine has been cultivated sufficiently to produce
wine, drunkenness has fearfully increased, and in the
district from which 1 write, every wine-maker has been
“ bitten by his own dog,” and in taking a hair of the
same dog, it has proved rabid, and they have all died
miserable drunkards, prematurely, with but one excep-
tion, and he sold out, but is still a confirmed drunkard ;
and this testimony is borne out to a very great extent in
our larger wine-growing districts, which anyone can see
for themselves who will take the trouble. It is all
“bosh” to say a people will keep sober by drinking
natural wine “ at all times ” of from 25deg. to 30deg. of
alcoholic strength.
Then Mr. Hulme artlessly goes on to try and
prove by “authorities ” that a similar state of
things exists in the wine-growing countries of
Europe. The truth of the matter is simply this ;
The millions of the wine-consumers of, say, France,
drink habitually from their childhood light wines
which, before dilution, contain from 9 to 13 per-
cent. alcohol—and do themselves far less harm than
is done by tea-drinking elsewhere. The average
local drinker of Australian vintages takes heavy
syrupy wines of over 25 per cent, alcoholic strength
—he has unfortunately not yet got over the
poisonous port and sherry and madeira habit
which he inherited from J. Bull, along with the
heavy frock-coat and the cast-iron plum-pudding
and the ghastly black hat. The Bulletin pre-
sumes that Mr. Hulme’s letter is written in the
teetotal interest. So far as the dangers of drinking
sound H;/ht wines arc concerned, Mr. Hulme
might, following the lead of Bishop Barry, have
far better attacked the vice of over-feeding, brink
slays its scores, gluttony its hundreds.
An idea of the sort of law which obtains
in West Australia is given by a recent Perth
police-court case. James Bloomer was charged by
Andrew Dyson with leaving his employ without
giving a week’s notice. The complainant said he
engaged the defendant as a ’bus driver, and he was
a weekly servant, and had left him without giving
proper notice. The magistrate s.vd that defend-
ant was liable to a fine of £5O, or three months'
imprisonment, but as complainant did not wish to
press the charge ’ he would be fined £l, or one
month’s imprisonment.
A country paper points out that Australian
civil servants could best show their loyalty to the
Grown not by taking two holidays for the Birthday
of Queen Victoria, but by “putting in ” a few
hours extra service occasionally, free of charge.
Just so, but then again a Q’sland magistrate has
discharged a lot of drunks whose excuse was that
they had been drinking Her Rubicund Oleaginous-
ness’s health. Twas ever thus. Monarchy from
its inception has been a vehicle for debauchery,
crime and every weakness or villainy of which man
is capable. When the Republic comes drunken-
ness on a Royal birthday will be deemed an aggra-
vation of the offence, unless the inebriate can show
that he was drinking to the deep damnation of all
crowned heads and sich.
The brave, unselfish, old Gustave Techow,
gymnast and gentleman, is dead. He was ex-
cluded from the amnesty granted to political
prisoners on the accession of the lately defunct
German Emperor Frederick, for reasons set forth
in The Bulletin at the time, and, consequently,
the dearest wish of his heart, that he should,
after an expatriation of over 40 years, breathe his
last in the Fatherland for which he fought and
bled was unrealised. Techow, who united in his
person all the most noble attributes of German
manhood, was an object-lesson in patriotism—
patriotism of the Kossuth stamp —and down in
the old galvanised-iron rockery by the East Mel-
bourne cricket-ground he taught a lot more than
the “ bars ”or the trapeze. Many a young Vic-
torian relaxed his grip on “the Throne” as a
corollary to his attendance on the tuition of
Gustave Techow.
There died last week in Hobart a man
with a record. 'lhomas James Crouch, formerly
Under-Sheriff of Tasmania, had attended more
executions than any other man who ever lived
south of the equator. He had read their death-
warrants to over 400 condemned men. It was he
who conferred his appointment on Solomon Blay,
the white-headed Tasmanian hangman, who has
slung about 210 souls into the next world. Outside
of his office, old Crouch was the brightest and
most genial of men, and was a genuine philanthro-
pist on a small scale. The sudden death of his
son, the well-known Melbourne architect, a short
tune ago hastened Ids own end. But for that sad
event it is possible he, being a pensioner, might
have realised his own jocular prophecy—that he
would see the century out. He threw a shoe after
Sir Alfred Stephen on the occasion of the latter’s
marriage with Parson Bedford’s daughter.
A correspondent addresses The Bulletin
on an interesting historical matter :
Editor Bulletin, —Sir,—Will you allow me to correct
a small error which appeared in the kast issue of your
paper ? Referring to an old man named George Swanson,
you state that “ Swanston’’-street, Melbourne, was
named after him, the“t” having crept in by mistake.
The name, however, is spelt quite correctly, for it was
named, not after Swanson, hut after my grandfather Cap-
tain Swanston, who, together with Captain Montague,
Messrs. Gellibrand and Mercer, formed a company in Tas-
mania for the purpose of taking up land at Port Phillip,
as it was then called, and sent over Batman to deal with
the natives, they being unaware at the time that the British
Government claimed sovereignty over the whole of
Australia.
The George Swanson referred to plied a ferry, I believe,
where Prince’s Bridge now stands, and afterwards kepi
a draper’s shop in Swanston-street. There is another
Swanston-street in Geelong, and in one or two up-countrv
towns Mounts Gellibrand and Mercer were named after
other members of the company.— l am, &c.. Giias. Swans-
ion, J.P., L.R.C.P. and S., Kd.
Alhciucuin Club, Sydney, May !>, IS9O.


Murdoch took home his wife and family.
The N.S.W. marriage-rate fell, according
to Statist Coghlan, from 7'Bo per 1000 in 1879, to
7‘42 in 1887, 7’37 in 1888, and o'Bo in 1889. On
the other hand, in 1879 the illegitimate births per
1000 of the population of the colony were 4'51 ; in
1889 they were 5'28. They get there just the
same.
Everybody in Sydney pities the poor lady
who, last week, had to go into the witness-box
and swear that her alleged signature on the back
of a bill discounted by her son was a forgery. The
Hebrew gentleman who discounted the bill gave
£125 only for a £l5O promissory-note at three
months—-thus charging 6G pershent., together with
the interest on £25 for three months—and yet he
could not read, nor could he write anything
beyond his signature ! Education is at a discount
after all. At a loan and discount, in fact.
[?]
846 Macquarie-street North, Sydney, June 4, 1890.
Mv Dear Moorabinda, —
The last of the second dose of “ Tosca ” at
Sydney Royal might have been billed as “ under the
patronage of the Opposition,” since G. R. Dibbs, W. H.
Traill in buttoned-up democratic-looking ulster of a viru-
lent check, and other political lights shone conspicuously
in a d.c. box and went out regularly at every interval—
to see how the new tram-lettering worked, I suppose.
The house was crowded, and the girl with her hair in
sausage-roll puffs and an old gown on had the pull of the
syren who had gotten herself up in her best confection
but neglected her cranium, since one notices coiffures
more than costumes when things are S. R. O. There
seemed to be rivers of red—one charmer in true Jubilee
with a cloak lined with rabbit-skins irresistibly reminded
me of a flayed sheep with part of his coat left hanging,
and another in the giddy Scriptural hue obscured the
stage with the Eiffelesque tangle of her skulling. And a
nice young man of the Passover-cake variety had his
cape-overcoat lined with scarlet—to resemble the cloak of
the naughty Baron Scarpia, I suppose, and I felt quite
sorry that the resemblance ceased at the lining—but, then,
Bellew has probably rehearsed the graceful hang of his top
wrap.
The main drawbacks to the “ Mdile. de Bressier”
premier at the Royal on 28th ult were the dozens of sad
black gowns relieved with lace and jet with aggravating
regularity. Then Rupert Carington was there like a rose
between two buds—one bud wearing flesh-pink, and the
other black, with a mauve corsage bouquet. Seeing how
exquisitely “ Mdile ” is staged—the boudoir and studio
scenes being especially convincing—it was soothing to
see that Mrs. 8.-P.’s wardrobe was in complete harmony
with the setting, though really all the toilettes—being
decidedly of to-day—were arch»ologically incorrect, as
the action takes place during the Commune—twenty
years ago. In the second act, when she first appears, the
gown proper is in soft creamy stuff, with Y-shaped
neck-piece of fawn guipure, the skirt edged with guipure
at the hem; belt and sash of heliotrope-pink. Over this
is worn a kind of cloak in fawn woollen with embroidered
border, the Zouave fronts lined with white and tied with
white ribbon ; the long turned-back wing sleeves with a
deep white border. At the bottom the cloak is divided
and lined with white satin ; at the neck it is gathered at
the back into a high semi-collar lined with white, which
produces a charming frontal effect. A large floral hat,
one mass of crimson roses and leaves and bows of white
ribbon is worn with this. When Mrs. Potter came forth
to bow her acknowledgements and collect the vegetables
(a large wreath of choice blooms being especially pro-
minent) she left the cloak off and appeared in the cream
gown only. In the studio scene the dressing is sublimely
artistic, and Mrs. Potter looks her very prettiest and acts
her very best besides. The gown is simple, of course—if
you notice, most truly artistic gowns cost about sixpence
a yard—and is in soft brown woollen en Princesse
with sides of seal - brown velvet. The bodice is
in semi-circular folds of the woollen with V of brow
velvet at the back and V of brown and gold beading at
the front and belt of black satin ; picture sleeves of seal-
brown velvet with woollen cuffs. Over this, on entering,
is worn a black cloak with a bold design in passementerie
and a fawn felt hat of the saggy variety adorned with
brown velvet and shaded brown ostrich feathers. To give
a needed touch of colour a terra-cotta scarf is held in a
purposeless way where it will do most good. In act four,
the gowning is mourning, the only touch of colour being
the bright hair of the worried demoiselle, which was worn
<1 la bird’s-nest-after-a-free-fight, as usual. In the last
act, Miss Gwynne (why ever does she put two daubs of
pipeclay on her eyelids and a lick of stove-polish under
her nose ?) wears a pretty gown in heliotrope with per-
pendicular bars of bronze velvet ; but Jenny Watt-Tanner
(who got a reception) in a pinky-creamy horror looked
(on this occasion) like that festive “ widow in reduced
circumstances who takes one gentleman boarder.”
Summarising the glories of the gowns Mrs. Brown-
Potter has favoured us with lately, your Sappho has come
to the conclusion that their success is due to the fact that
you are never sure when the wearer will take something
off or put something on, or juggle with the sash-end and
so change the whole apparent idea that you never knew
when you have really grasped the full meaning of the
toilet. And this appeals, for when the drapery is artistic,
“ versatility of motive,” as one may say, is decidedly
fetching, and I sincerely hope that local society, which
never gets beyond two colours combined in the most
ordinary and foreseen way will take a lesson and emanci-
pate itself at last from the alphabet of full dress where it
is floundering at present. I also noticed that the B.P.
wardrobe lent itself readily to resurrection—one gown
coming out in as many disguises (which didn’t save it from
the eagle optic of your Sappho) as a fashionable absconder
en route to Honolulu.
The Southern Amateur Theatrical Society gave another
evidence of its being strong and well at Sydney School of
Arts on 29th ult., when *’ Milky White ” and the “ Rose of
Auvergne” were very well rendered indeed, in the
presence of a crammed house headed by Mayor and Mrs.
Burdekin. The most life like character on the boards was
the Dick Dugs of A. Ellice-Flint, who carried on
generally as the degraded object he was supposed to be ;
but the “ star” wasn’t letter-perfect, and the fascinating
jeune premier in a straw hat and a lisp hovered anxiously
at the wings with his ear and eye on the busy prompter.
The proceedings were of the most rekerky description
“ in front,” nearly' everyone wearing war-paint.
And, alluding to manners, how do you like the two
latest hand-shakes from England ? To engineer one you
bold your band on a level with your adversary’s nose with
ibe fingers drooping. If the adversary is in the know.
•he elevates her fist to a similar altitude and lightly
squeezes the greeting finger-tips ; but if she isn’t—both
parties retire with wrecked paw-cases, that’s aIL Grip
No. 2 is more “inward” and appeals to the subterranean
emotions of unappreciated matrons and responsive
adorers, by whom it is much affected. This is the how of
it: You extend the arm straight in front, seize as much
of your opponent’s claw as you possibly can with a
crescetido con-expressionc squeeze and fine, gentle, mean-
ing pumps, and there you are. Time, one and a-ha.f
seconds, but may be extended during the absence of the
old man.
There is an estimable institution called the “ Ladies’
Dressmaking Association ” in the Victoria Arcade, Sydney.
It was started some years ago by a committee of philan-
thropic women, and is patronised, I am told, by people
who are interested in the welfare of girls who are not well-
learned enough for the miserable teaching profession, but
for whom, all the same, the ordinary workroom is an
impossible outlet. This praiseworthy movement stands in
need of a little patronage just now. Its main object is to
give employment to the awkwardly-situated “shabby-
genteel,” who would otherwise turn “ companion,” or
lady-help, or something equally overdone—and probably
see their elbows working through their sleeves as they
crowded round the registry-offices, waiting for employ
ment that might never come. In itself dressmaking is a
rather nice business, and as the pay after the months dur-
ing which the novice is getting her hand in is £1 per week
the hours from nine to five, and no girl is admitted unless
Well-recommended by the committee, the elected may
consider themselves fortunate. It’s a worthy struggle,
isn’t it ? and it’s a pity more people don’t give them their
orders, since the more work in hand the more hands in
work there—though some hands may thus lose work else-
where. Lady Bertie’s bridesmaids’ dresses were made by
the Association, and they are now finishing a very elegant
gown in white moire-pearl passementerie and sap-green
velvet for a bride-elect. Everybody really interested in
the “ What can we do with our girls?” conundrum should
give the Association a trial, as their charge is only thirty-
nine and sixpence for the make, linings, and etceteras,
and the cutter is a London professional, who regards a
badly-hung skirt as a cardinal sin.
Have you remarked what “good form” vulgarity o*
demeanour is just now? Not so very long ago for a
woman to cross her—well—knee or turn her head in public
was an unpardonable solecism, but now we have arms
akimbo, arms folded, knees folded and heads rotating
until anybody out of the Movement would want to turn
round three times and think it out in the refrigerator. The
Countess of Hopetoun generally wears one hand on her
hip—all the vice-regalities slip one knee over the other—
and with these unimpeachable precedents society has
thrown the old poker-backed doctrines into the fire and
carries its limbs anyhow, that is to say, if they are any
way presentable. The reason for this laxity of deport-
ment is, that when once a certain section of the “lowah
ordahs ” comprehends that a lady should resemble a petri-
fied image which clasps its hands below its diaphragm and
doesn’t move a hair even if a bundle of crackers went off
under its perch, they set about doing likewise; and as
nothing is easier to behave as a perfect lady on “Manual’’
lines, the result is that the duchesses of the draperies
come forward with a graceful glide and supply you with a
packet of pins in the most approved boudoir manner. Of
course society cannot share its little ways with “people”
who should always turn their toes in, and are under a
moral obligation to eat peas with their knife from father
to son, but if they will improve and fold their hands
gracefully in public, why there is nothing for it but what
has already happened-a sudden adaptation of posed
arms and ankles on the side of the defence. There !
isn’t that a beautifully logical exegesis of the raison
d’etre of the weird gymnastics of local culchaw ?
Partly owing to the draggle-tailed sort of day and partly
owing to the Randwick races, which latter event lent
itself better to the gambling mania, the Championship
Athletic Meeting at Sydney Association Ground wasn’t
attended by a particularly well-dressed aggregate and no
very special frocks were flaunted. Neither Lady Caring,
ton nor Mrs. Brown-Potter, both of whom had accepted
the club’s invitation, were discernible with the naked eye
anywhere about the premises, though Baron Carington, in
a topper and a jubilee necktie, skirmished around in a
general way for a while and made the proceedings V.R.
Mayoress Burdekin wore navy-blue cloth with pinked-out
tan cloth edgings, small cream-lace-and-ribbon bonnet,
and cream lace parasol. Mrs. Carruthers, dark-green
cloth with borderings of beaver fur; picture hat in felt
with green ostrich feathers. A costume of black
velvet, made on the porter-bottle plan, with a
rust-brown felt hat and feather and a brown moire
gamp was nice in a scenic sense ; but a lady in moonshine-
green cut Y-shape and a flower in her pokeish hat was
enough to give a conventional person the jumps. On the
track the dressing was occasionally d6gag6, and I shall
never forget the look of a long knock-kneed Maori with a
yard of bare whip-handle shanks and a split top-coat jog-
ging to scratch in the teeth of the wind. And I didn’t
like the New Zealanders’ uniforms—black with a sort of
skull and bone on the left side—it looked like an animated
coffin with the name-plate askew ; but the Queenslanders’
snowy raiment was like faint lilies, and looked simply
soulful—where it wasn’t soiled. By the bye, when will
the Association have the garden in the ladies’ reserve
attended to ? At present it’s a tangle of ugly weeds which
have killed off all the poor little plantlets and riot even
on to the gravel.
The following advt. is redolent of Jonah:—'
CHTUATION wanted by a thoroughly respectable
middle-aged Housekeeper, in a respectable family
or widower, good refs., moderate wages, good home.
Mrs. , road, Smithtown.
But the situation has its advantages. She could criticise
the dire effects of bottled beer and oysters on his assimi-
lating apparatus, and send up hourly reports as to the
state of his liver—that is, if any widower could be got to
swallow a middle-aged female in the first place.
And, apropos of the sports, I am pleased to learn that
that the Championship prizes will be presented by Mrs.
Burdekin at a complimentary ball at Need’s rooms on the
9th inst., instead of at the smoke concert by Mayor
Burdekin as at first decided.
Yours affectionately,
SAPPHO SMITH.
If you are not allowed to pay for admission
to Sunday concerts, you can at least spend the
money and your time on Marshall’s Tonic Nervine.
Nirnmo and Dow were members of the
Ministry which bounced Colonel Templeton from
the Chairmanship of the Civil Service Commis-
sion. Time brings its revenges.
Merchant Tronson and his mature ‘ ‘ mash, ”
to whose injured husband he has now to pay £2250
divorce-damages, had for their chief rendezvous a
grave in the old Gympie cemetery where the giddy
man had five, and his charmer two children
buried. Tronson’s version of the matter was that
he used to sit there in the gloaming and relate to
her harmless little anecdotelets about his trip to
England. He ought to have said that they talked
of nothing but the weather, and the jury might
have believed him. Some juries will believe any-
thing.
Neat par from a down South (Vic.)
paper:—
John Coherty has instructed a highly respectable
firm of solicitors (as solicitors go), to demand our
apology for mentioning in our last issue that the proper
pronunciation of his (Ooherty’s) name sounds uncommonly
like “dirty.” The respectable firm of solicitors further
desire us to give them one guinea, at which price we
should regard their letter as an extravagantly overpaid
piece of literature. However, if Mr. Coherty is aggrieved
at his name standing like “dirty,” we beg to express our
regret that we wounded his feelings, and also to express
an opinion that his name ought to have been “shirty.”
As regards that guinea subscription to the solicitors, we
are reluctantly compelled to mention that our last twenty-
one shillings have been invested in a bull-pup, a faithful
animal which will do its level best to lay hold upon the
leg of any man who imagines mischief and vain things
against our royal person.
A party of six Australian citizens received
an unlooked-for visit one night not long ago, and.
none of them have yet recovered from the effects
They were sitting peacefully together playing-
euchre by the light of a slush lamp, which smelt
as if something was dead, after the fashion of
slush lamps in general, when a stranger came in
quite casually and neglected to offer any coherent
observation worth mentioning. He got in with
difficulty owing to the scantiness of the available
space, but the proprietors of the premises left at
once and unanimously in order to make room for
him. One of them retired through the window
amid a general smash and scatteration of glass
and everything else, and two went up the chimney
—one standing unconsciously in the fire while the
other crowded up and left the way clear for him
to follow. A fourth made his unassuming exit
through the side of the house itself, and carried
most of it along with him —not that he particularly
wanted the side of anybody’s house, but the
article happened to be standing in the way, and
he carried it off in a moment of abstraction, just as
he might have removed an anchor, or a quantity
of red-hot iron, or an infuriated lion if he had
been thinking of something else at the moment.
As for the other two, they offered up a piercing
shriek apiece and got out anyhow. They have no
absolutely reliable recollections of how they did
it, but one of them fancies that he burrowed
rapidly through the ground with his nails and
haying passed underneath the foundations of the
building he came up in haste at a considerable
distance, and as he is unable to find the hole
through which he made his exit, he is inclined to
believe he must have stopped to fill it up again
without - being aware of the fact ; and the other
suffers from an impression that he travelled
through the air, and neglected to come down
again for 150 yards. All of the party are more or
less frayed and torn through concussing against
everything that came in their way, and the entire
six are much out of breath and have remained in
that state for 42 days. Their home was a one-
roomed wooden shanty on the bank of a river, and it
was furnished with a table, a window and chimney,
and a door that opened towards the slimy stream
on the very edge of the bank. It was small—
so small that a man could break the window
with one hand and drag the door off its hinges
with the other, and it was inconveniently crowded.
Four of the company were playing euchre, and
the other two were merely swearing and using
obscene language in a general sort of way. When
things were at this stage the bald man in the
brown suit who sat nearest the door turned up a
club, and observed that he would take it up and
that any miserable lost soul in the company who
tried to play against his hand would have reason
to wish that his parents had never become
acquainted with each other, and just then a strange,
muffled voice behind him said something in an un-
dertone which seemed to imply that it endorsed
these sentiments and would also feel inclined to
take it up under similar conditions. Presently,
hovyever, the bald man lost, and his partner rose
excitedly to state that he was the very last earthly
possibility as one of the lower animals in disguise,
and pointed out that in his capacity as an ass
he put a finish and completeness on the
business which had never been equalled ; and
the voice outside was generally understood to
smile at these observations and to encourage
the speaker to go on. Then the bold victim of in-
sult and outrage said that if the person outside
was prepared to maintain the attitude ho was sup-
posed to have taken up in the course of his recent
remarks he had better come in and do it, and the
unseen one was generally understood to reply that
he was coming in as fast as he could manage, and
that he would come faster if he only knew how.
Just here the little, round, fat, oily man next the
fireplace said that he would also take it up, and
the invisible speaker offered a sound which seemed
to say that he had made it a rule to take it up all
his life, and that he was coming in presently to
take it up more than ever. The little, oily man,
however, was also euchred, and gave way to
language which was fearful to listen to, and
the intrusive person in the background in-
serted a muffled yelp which occupied an
unauthorised position in the programme of
the small man’s profanity, and seemed to
imply that he regarded that person with loathing
and contempt. Then a long, silent citizen, who
so far had played his cards without a word of
comment, rose and said that he considered the
time had arrived to put a head on the man outside,
and also stated that he would reduce that person
to such a state that his own mother would pass
him by without recognition, and for reply there
came in a long wheeze and sigh which appeared to
set forth that the visitor was an orphan and didn’t
care a cuss, anyhow. Just here the man who sat
next the door rose four feet in the air all at once
and submitted a fearful, splitting, unearthly
shriek for the consideration of the company, who
seemed to regard it as rather a rare specimen and
to wonder where he got it from. Then, briefly re-
marking that there was a large alligator coming in
at the door, he fled np the chimney, and his com-
panions started madly after him in the various
ways aforementioned, and proceeded to swallow
time and space in the wild velocity of their retreat.
And as they left there rose behind them a sound
like a horse’s cough, which seemed to embody a
statement to the effect that the alligator had just
dropped in while passing and was sorry they
couldn’t stay.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Theatre Royal.. J. L. Toole.
Her Majesty's “After Dark.”
Criterion “The Parvenu.”
Darlinghurst Skating Rink.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Theatre Royal “Silver King.”
New Bijou “ Joseph’s Sweetheart.”
Opera House “ Paul Jones.”
Princess’s “ Little Lord Fauntleroy.*'
Alexandra ...,; “ Private Secretary.”
Victoria Hall The U.S. Minstrels.
Town Hall Halk-Nemda Concerto.
The performance of “ Mdlle. de Bressier,”
at Sydney Royal, was chiefly remarkable for its
re-introduction, after a long absence, of Jenny
Watt-Tanner, who was very warmly received, to
the Sydney stage ; the estimation in which it was
held by the public may be guaged by its with-
drawal after three nights in favour of “ David
Garrick,” who was succeeded by “ La Tosca on
Thursday evening, and on Friday by “Camille,”
which play rings down the curtain on the Potter-
Bellew season, which has been in every way a most
successful one. We scarcely think Delpit or his
translator Merivale can be responsible for the
clumsiness of the maudlin story depicted at the
Royal. The last act is particularly mixed ; for
example, the widowed heroine, whose father and
brother were killed by the Communists, is about to
be betrothed to a young sculptor who had fought
as a Communist, and whose father was shot dur-
ing the Civil War at the door of his son’s lady-
love, who had betrayed his hiding-place. Folks
were just beginning to think that all the
bother was over and that they might haul on their
wraps, when it was discovered that the wicked
husband’s body (he had mysteriously disappeared
in Algeria), had never been found, therefore that
no inquest had been held, consequently that no
proofs of his death existed, ergo, that no marriage
could take place. This complication disposed of
by the opportune confession of his murderer, an-
other difficulty arose from the fact that the parent
of one party to the contract was a Communist, that
of the other an armed upholder of “ law-’n-
order.” This was settled somehow, and then
the sculptor’s mother chipped in and denounced
the young woman as the murderess of her
husband, and the audience began to think they’d
get home next week, but the business was settled
by the couple standing firm while the old lady
capitulated, and the curtain descended slowly on
the usual “I am thine for ever ” business. Mrs.
Potter in the name-part was fairly successful,
Jenny Watt-Tanner (albeit her make-up in the
first act was too youthful) was a satisfactory Mme.
Rosny, and as Aurelie and Nelly the Misses
Kinnaird and Gwynne filled the bill. As Jacques,
Kyrle Bellew got most of the grease-paint and
limelight, and Edward Sass as Pierre, in accor-
dance with his usual custom, got killed off early.
Toole opens on Saturday in “A Pool and His
Money ” and “Ici on Parle Francais.”
* *- * *
At Her Majesty’s, the “ Two Orphans”
has very much improved all round since first
night. Maggie Oliver’s Frochard is now a com-
plete impersonation of the heartless old hag who
has but one soft corner in her heart. Jewett’s
democratic speech, as de Yaudray, in the Chateau,
is impressively delivered ; he has a good companion
picture in the Marquis dePresles of Henry Hoyte.
A. E. Greenaway, however, continues' to shed
tears without intermission right through until lie
sniffs battle, when he rises superior to snivel and
proceeds to shed blood. The “ Two Orphans,”
after.a three weeks run, retire in favour of “After
Dark,” on Saturday evening.
* * * *
At Sydney Criterion “ Fun on the Bristol”
has drawn large audiences throughout a
run of twenty-four nights, and the only com-
plaint is that folks don’t see enough of the
cleverly-impersonated Widdy O’Brien. During
the week the olio business has been completely
changed, and the eccentric dancing of Harry
Crawford, whose high-kicking excels that of the
Girards, is a feature of the show. The com-
pany—their vacation of the theatre is compulsory
—skip to Newcastle on Saturday, where they play
the “Bristol” and good, old “Uncle Tom,” anil
the gap will be filled by that detachment of the
Brough-Boucicault Co. whose names we catalogued
last week in the “ Parvenu, ” a piece in which the
lovers of comedy can count on seeing Anson, who
has returned in rare form, at his best.
* * * «-
At the Gaiety Messrs. Holloway, Howe, and
Little seem to have accurately guaged the taste of
the public, for “Judge-not” has been drawing
crowded houses during a fourteen nights run, but
will be withdrawn to admit of the production of
“The King of Iron,” by the same author, on
Saturday. Play-goers will remember that Essie
Jenyns made one of her earliest Sydney appear-
ances in the latter play at the Opera House.
-*■ -» * -*■
At Bondi Aquarium, in spite of rain,
there was a big muster last Sunday when the
admission-by-invitation system was satisfactorily
introduced. A lengthy concert-programme by a
number of Sydney’s leading vocalists was gone
through, and the offertory was a bumper. On
Saturday W. B. Warner, better known as
“Billy,” takes a benefit, when thirty performers
have volunteered their services. The divine
William, it is said, goes to England to paralyse
them at the Pavilion and the Canterbury.
* * * *
At Darlinghurst Skating Rink the mile
and a-half amateur handicap was won, after a
dead heat with C. Detores, scratch, by C. Garland,
40 yards. On Saturday evening a jockeys’ race in
full riding costume takes place. Business con-
tinues to boom.
* * * *
In the first reception of “ Joseph’s Sweet-
heart ” at Melbourne Bijou, there was every pro-
mise of good times in store for a play which lias
already earned a giddy reputation in Sydney. Its
sweet superfluity of naughtiness and picturesque
appointments will doubtless commend this dis-
jointed yarn to all save the rigidly virtuous, who
may be expected to form themselves into vigilance
committees for the purpose of coming often, in
order to feel assured that “Joseph and his Sweet-
heart ” continually get right through the valley of
temptation without falling by the way. The un-
regenerate majority addicted to guffawing at
Joseph’s inhuman indifference to woman’s wiles,
and at a loss to understand why a noble lord
should waste his blandishments upon a fragile little
figure from the waxworks, such as Fanny appears to
be, willfind no fault with Buchanan’s second adapta-
tion from Fielding, beyond that its interest is arti-
ficial, its heroics altogether shams, and its spiciest
situation a reminder of “ Sophia.” The dramatist,
in fact, anticipated the character of Lady Booby


is not a photograph, nor a photo, a ghost—but a good photo, is a
true reflection of the original. For high-art photos, go to the
London Palace of Art, 10 Park-street, Sydney. Country photographers’ work from developemen
to completion executed at lowest prices. Bromides a speciality, Staff of artists kept for working up.
A GHOST
Grondona and Co., Ld., Melbourne, have
declared a dividend of 10 per cent.
It is said that the “ Jaynial one ” called
loudly for lemonade at a S. Australian picnic, but
hastened to explain that it was for a lady. His
reputation was saved.
The late klir (then Mister) John O’Shanassy
estimated, in 1856, that the Victorian population
would be six millions by this time, wherefore he
launched out with J. G. Knight’s magnificent
plans for Parliament Houses.
Mount Morgan (Q.) gold-mine has up to
now paid two million pounds sterling in dividends;
Broken Hill Proprietary silver-mine (N.S.W.) has
in five years just paid four millions of pounds
profit, and the experts say that they have as yet
“ merely scratched the surface.”
It must be conceded that that enthusiastic
teetotal vegetarian, Cyril Haviland, is in his
right element as secretary of Sydney local
School of Arts, which, for the first time in its
history, is being properly boomed. Fifteen-
hundred subscribers have been added to the list
within the year. A new. and effective system for
the receiving and delivery of books has been in-
vented. The subscription for ladies has been re-
duced, and all works of modern and popular
authors have had to be multiplied fourfold.
We have received a handsomely-bound
book on the “ Jonolan Caves ” from the pen of J.
J. Foster, who chaperoned Henry George through
Australia, issued by order of Minister Sydney
Smith from the N.S.W. Government Printing
Office. Mr. Foster spent over six weeks in ex-
ploring the oaves, during which time he estimates
that he crawled through twenty miles of subter-
ranean passages and was the first visitor to
enter some new caves which he has appro-
priately named. Those appellations, as well
as some he conferred on certain longer-known
but unnamed caverns, have been adopted as
the official designations and all the measure-
ments, &c., have been verified by a Government
surveyor. Mr. Foster lias been remarkably suc-
cessful in describing the caves in simple yet
graphic language while avoiding tiresome repeti-
tions : however, had the book been illustrated,
its value as a means of introducing picturesque
Australia to the world’s notice would have been
greatly increased. The author leaves for England,
via America, in search of novelties next week.
You really ought to drink Wolfe’s Schnapps.
No sufferer from any scrofulous disease, who
will fairly try Ayer’s Sarsaparilla, need despair of
a cure. This remedy purges the blood of im-
purities, destroys the germs of scrofula, and in-
fuses new vigor throughout the system.
Wolfe's Schnapps for lowness of spirits.
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
in Lady Bellaston, and just as he drew upon
“ Joseph Andrews ” in compiling “ Sophia,” so he
throws back to “Tom Jones” for the Lord
Fellamar who meditates the conquest of Joseph’s
weird mash with chicken and champagne at Rane-
lagh Gardens. This scene of dazzling light, by
the way, fell short of expectation. There was a
strange dearth of waiters at the Gardens, and no
incidental signs of gaiety to account for the pre-
sence of a mob of improper females in masks. No-
body appeared to be drinking anything, the
mechanical laughter of the aforesaid syrens palled
upon the ear, and a general suspicion of sepulchral
gloom haunted the entire reckless dissipation. For
the rest, “Joseph’s Sweetheart” is admirably
mounted, besides being prettily grouped and cos
turned. It only requires a proper infusion of
snuff-taking and a lot more bad language to com-
plete the last-century illusion.
# * *
As regards the acting, Mrs. Brough’s im-
provement in the delineation of unrequited love,
since Lady Bellaston was “ froze off ” by Tom
Jones, is most pleasingly apparent. She plays a
difficult part with all the warmth and dash that
good taste will allow, yet the unfortunate effect of
her artistic success in the first act is to make Mr.
Cecil Ward an object of contempt for the rest of
the evening. Everybody feels that he ought to be
made flunkey to Sydney Social Purity Society, and
provided with a gimlet. Fanny is likewise un-
supported by public sympathy in her tribulation,
not because her sentiments are virtuous, but be-
cause she doesn’t strike one as being a real
live girl, any more than Athena Claudius
is a real live name. Robert Inman, again,
is universally derided for his idiocy in
chasing this phantom so persistently, though
otherwise he deserves a word of praise.
Miss Romer seems bound to become a prime
favourite in the part of Mrs. Slipshod, and
the gipsy of A. R. Lawrence is a fine, strong,
albeit stagey feature in the entertainment. Parson
Adams, as faithfully reproduced by Mr. Brough,
is without question the one genuine article in
“Joseph’s Sweetheart’s ” hollow world, and a few
other people might be better or worse.
*• # * &
“ Paul Jones,” at Melbourne Opera House,
will last for one more week, whereas J. L. Toole
is to be brought to a conclusion at the Princess’
this (Thursday) evening. The bill consists of
“Paul Pry” and two of his best farces. On
Saturday a farewell fortnight of “Little Lord
Fauntleroy” will start, and all who desire to
slobber once again over that touching story of pure
and simple snobbery had better lose no time in
attending the pretty sickening spectacle.
■sic iK
“Silver King” further established its re-
putation as a noble story of how an insane indul-
gence in strong drink may drive a young man to
the possession of a mine of wealth untold, by fill-
ing Melbourne Royal on Saturday night. The
latest revival, of which much was expected, fell
about as flat as the play’s literary excellence will
permit it to fall under liberal management, and
this notwithstanding the pertinacity with whicli
Mr. Charles Warner came before the curtain and
bowed until scarcely the echo of a cheer remained
in the auditorium. In truth his performance of
Wilfrid Denver serves to alleviate the sorrow
caused by Charles’ approaching departure
to fill a long felt want at Drury Lane where
the sobbing of a strong man in his agony
doesn’t become wearisome by repetition in a rapid
sequence of characters. Wilfred Warner is too
all-pervading entirely. Ho gets too drunk to start
with, and then he takes far too long to sober up.
He repents a lot more than is good for him, and
endures a more protracted agony of remorse,
terminating in a more hysterical outbreak of joy,
than the case seems to require. Nevertheless,
Warner has his great moments—as at the end of
the third act—and then the prevailing desire to
see him buried with military honours tones down
into a feeling of admiration, mingled with
surprise that he should behave as he
does behave at other times. Miss Grade
Warner does well, indeed, as Nellie Denver, so
well that her chronic weakness at the chest seems
a matter for genuine regret. Royce again proves
that he is worthy to be bracketted with Phil Day
as an exponent of the fossil Jaikes, but the rest of
the show will be judged by the past and found
badly wanting. Taking the minor instance of
those three old gaffers at the roadside inn, who
have been steadily deteriorating in quality since
the drama was first played here nearly seven years
ago, those three men are now at their very worst.
“ Silver King ” is intended to run for the three
remaining weeks of Warner’s stay, and its vitality
should hold out that much.
* * *
“ Private Secretary ” is raging with in-
creased fury at the Alexandra, and the nightly
attendances to see Spalding flung into igno-
minious heaps grow in size and enthusiasm. The
Cogill Bros, have been reduced to the necessity of
jointly and severally filing their shovels, leaving
Harry Rickards to carry on the war at St. George’s
Hall for one more week. The new minstrel crowd
at the Victoria Hall turns out to be Horace Bent,
Whitburn, Franks and Marion and other memories
of the past, who have come out comparatively
fresh and are filled with earnest resolutions to do
the best they can.
** * *
At the concerts a tendency
to relapse into something distinctly suggesting an
air has resulted in a continuation of the season
for five more concerts. Last week The Bulletin
(having the second concert in its hard, practical
mind)intimatedthat vocal items were themainstays
of a dull entertainment. Next day the Age said “it
is for many reasons unfortunate that the manage-
ment should have thought it necessary to diversify
these concerts with vocal selections. The singing
of a modern ballad jars upon the ear,” &c. It so
jars upon the ear that the whole Town Hall rises
at the top notes of Charles Turner and Miss Mon-
tague, and encores them with a heartiness which
makes the false applause bestowed upon the
sonatas seem as ridiculous as the wretched cant of
daily paper drivellers.
** * *
At the Adelaide Royal, Wybert Reeve is
running a season, supported by Edith Blande,
Flora Hastings, James Stevenson and the most of
the late Bland Holt Company. That drama of
antiquity, “Green Bushes,” was the opening
piece, followed by “Lost in London,” and the
business has been fairly satisfactory. Arrange-
ments are being made to get “ After Dark ”
scenery and effects from Melbourne, and this
drama will probably be staged in the holy city ere
long. Harmston’s Circus is flourishing.
*# * *
Another theatre for Sydney ! The new
temple is to be erected on part of the Hill estate,
opposite Tattersall’s, in Pitt-street, and is de-
signed to eclipse even the Melbourne Princess,
Mr. W. T. Muston is to build the new structure,
and Mr, Clarence Backhouse ia the architect.
Work has already been been begun, and the cur-
tain will ring up for the first time about Christ-
mastide.
At Poverty Point.
A youthful Oobargo shepherd has been telling his flock
that nine-tenths of the novels in the local library are not
nt to read ; then he went on to condemn the surroundings
of the theatres—“the clerk who had just robbed his
master’s money-desk, the degraded and immoral man and
woman, the thief, the blackguard, the sharper, the
habitues of the gambling-saloon, were all mixed up in the
street outside,” &c. How did the reverend acquire this
information ? When he gets older he will learn, if he
reads the evening papers, that the elder who has em-
bezzled the trust-funds of the widow, and the parson who
has seduced a member of his Bible class, are usually not
found in the theatre—unless in disguise.
Bluntly says the S.F. Newsletter: “ Whatever may
be Mr. and Mrs. Kendal’s good qualities, they have, in
common, one vice which is most detestable to all Cali-
fornia, and that is—meanness. It is very much to be
doubted whetjier two actors ever came to San Francisco
who were so unwholesomely selfish, and so utterly dis-
liked by those who came in business contact with them.”
Mme. Patti and Mrs. “ Immaculate” Kendal, as some of
the Yankee papers call that lady, have come to wordy
war. Mme. Patti resented Mrs. Kendal’s claim to a super-
abundance of morality, and intimated that Mrs. Kendal
travelled more upon her virtue than on her art. Mrs.
Kendal, at latest, was “ real mad.”
Amy Horton, announced in London as “the leading
Australian burlesque actress,” travelled'part of the way
on the same boat as the talented eldest son of the Prince
of Wales, and she says “ he was very unaffected and
pleasant to everybody.” We daresay Amy meant it, but
we are afraid that, like most women, she would have been
pleased with a Future King if he had only said “ hee-
haw ! ” in a loud voice.
Much regret is felt in show circles at the insolvency of
Taylor, the circus man, as straightforward an employer as
ever lived. He has been associated with Burton, Bird,
and all the others.
Melbourne low comedians, dressed up as aboriginals,
tried to surprise Johnny Toole in a bush excursion, but
he didn’t come that way, and the aboriginals had their
clothes stolen, wherefore they got locked up.
J. P. Burnett, Jo’s Burnett, is about Melbourne picking
up health. He is a bit too thin, but will soon be ready for
the familiar Bucket.
Eighteen years ago a fund was being raised for the
benefit of a widow and orphans, and at one of the meetings
Coppin was asked to act as treasurer. “No !” said George
decisively, “it would injure the cause that we all have at
heart. It would be said that the movement was one of
1 Coppin’s dodges.’ ” And so Charley Cavanagh, of the
Theatre Royal, was appointed.
Donaldson Bros., contortionists, lately from Australia,
are a hit in London.
“The wife of Charles Oharrington of a daughter.”
Agnes Thomas, it seems, has made rather a large success
as Jane Shore, at the London Standard. In Melbourne
and Sydney she will long be remembered for her perform-
ance of Mrs. Ralston, in “Jim the Penman,” and of a
pretty light part in “A Night-off.” Why don’t B. and B.
get hold of “ A Night-off ” and reproduce it with Tither-
adge, Anson and Annie Taylor in their original characters?
Edward Thorne, of America, has seceded from the
Bland Holt company to travel with Van Tassell’s ballooning
crowd. Chichester, late of B. and B.’s, fills up the gap.
Lady Florence Dixie says that the cardinal sin of her
sex is the wear of long skirts. Her idea is that the skirt
should come no lower than the knee, and that that por-
tion of the female leg which is euphemistically described
as the ankle, should be made visible. The only serious
objection, probably, says a contemporary, would come
from ladies of the ballet, who might object, in view of such
unrestricted competition, but this would probably adjust
itself by the ladies of the histrionic profession outstripping
their sisters in private life. Lady Florence’s reform is
worthy of serious consideration, and if the sterner sex be
allowed to vote upon it, the result may be predicted in
advance.
Coppin’s father was a doctor, afterwards actor and
manager. George, though very young indeed, ere arrival
in Australia had considerable experience as a low
comedian in the provinces, and even at London minor
theatres. The toss-up of a penny decided him on coming
to Australia instead of America. His friend, Morton
King, tragedian, was afterwards a Melbourne auctioneer,
magistrate, and member of Parliament.
G. B. W. Lewis still flourishes in Melbourne as hearty
as ever. He began life as an acrobat (some will remem-
ber his Risley act, with Lilliputian Tom, in Rowe’s
Circus, 36 years ago), and the writer recollects him at
Ooppin’s Old English Pair, Cremorne Gardens, Lewis in
puce-coloured acrobatic tights, at the bar, taking
lemonade (“ Not me,” says G. B. W.—yes, ’twas). After
that, though well on in years, he married Rose Edouin,
and they have a grown-up family, with more money made
in Bombay than in Melbourne.
James Smith tells us that G. H. Rogers, the come-
dian, was a brother of Professor Henry Rogers, the
distinguished writer. Charley Young’s first Melbourne
appearance was as Claude Melnotte. Rogers and his wife,
both talented, at one time only got £2 10s a week between
them.
Mrs. Brough is going to make a great thing out of the
study of the part of Clarissa Harlowe, Buchanan’s new
Vaudeville comedy, Winifred Emery’s success in London.
Winifred was in Australia with her father, Sam.
During Fred. Leslie’s illness his part in the “ Blase
Routi ” was played by Fred. Story with much acceptation.
Poor Prank Stephenson who, wasted by consumption,
came to Australia for his health, died in Melbourne on
Friday, 30th May. His performance of Giro Panitza, in
“My Jack,” was a very powerful one, and will not soon be
forgotten by Sydney Her Majesty’s and Melbourne Alex-
andra audiences.
The Henry Bracy English Opera Co. has been doing
good business in Brisbane with the “Beggar Student”
and the “ Sultan of Mocha.”
Arbitrator Bancroft has decided the Langtry-Haddon
Chambers case re the failure to produce “The Bouquet,”
in favour of the author with “ exemplary damages.”
Rev. E. W. Gulliver, who comes from New Zealand with
first-class credentials as a liberal-minded man and a fluent
lecturer, takes the Sydney platform shortly.
A Chicago paper says that Charles Arnold will never be
considered the star of his company while he has the
diminutive comedienne, May Hannan, in the organization.
Kate Vaughan has burnt her eyelids by the incautious
use of her smelling-bottle.
The roof of a theatre in which Madame Janauschek was
performing recently blew off, but the audience were so
spell-bound that they never noticed it. So her manager
says, and he ought to know.
At the conclusion of the mad-scene in Lucia, Patti
stepped down to the footlights in response to an ovation
and sang “Home, Sweet Home,” at N.Y. Metropolitan.
Talk of the artistic proprieties !
When Barnum goodbyed a British circus-manager, the
latter remarked ; “ We shall meet in Heaven, I trust, my
dear Barnum.” “ Yes,” said Barnum thoughtfully, “if
you’re there.”
Sculptor Sala, of Cow Plat, N.S.W., has accidently un-
earthed another marble man, weighing 5001b5., from the
Oaleula quarries. The figure is in a crouching position,
and it is alleged that when discovered it was sitting on a
horse in close conversation with a whale, the subject of
discussion being Jonah’s ejection from several places of
entertainment while “ padding the hoof ” to Tarshish.
Salt Lake criticism; “An alleged actor named Band-
mann gave a very rooky performance of ‘ The Merchant
of Venice ’ in Salt Lake Theatre Monday evening, before
an audience of 100 people. The theatregoers of this city,
however, well knowing Bandmann to be a ten-cent actor,
preferred to witness the acting of the heifer in ‘ Evange-
line ’at the Grand, which was crowded. Anyone who has
seen the acting of Evangeline’s heifer and compared it
with that of Bandmann, will unhesitatingly say that the
heifer is much the better actor.”
Marian Burton and Nellie Stewart are to alternate
Boccaccio at the Melb. Opera House.
The Baimsfathers, when on the way to Melbourne from
Puget Sound, in the “ Flying Venus,” were wrecked on
Penrhyn Island in the Pacific, and lost all their possessions
excepting their top notes. Some of the sailors made
Samoa in an open boat, and from thence the S.S. Bion-
mond was despatched to rescue the castaways after
sojourning for forty-seven days in the vicinity of some
simple but cavernous savages.
R. A. Aginton is now skating at London Olympia.
Mat Berry, so well-known and liked when he visited
Australia with Katie Putnam, has been laid up with
pneumonia in Salt Lake City.
W. G. Eaton, chef d’orchestre, lately in Australia, has
written to a London paper insinuating thatpersons offered
engagements in Australia cannot be too careful as to the
framing of their contracts.
Joseph K. Emmet (“ Fritz”) has been served with
notice of divorce-suit by Eleanor, his wife, on grounds of
alleged adultery with Maud White, his leading lady, and
others. Young Joseph, who manages, has biffed the lady
out of the company, and she sues for breach of contract.
Emmet denies unfaithfulness.
Boston Ideal Co. have been working down from Brisbane
towards Sydney, whence it is to be presumed they turn
Amerioa-wards.
Carmenoita, the wonderfully graceful Spanish dancer,
whose philosophic views on the alluring of public atten-
tion by mere suggestiveness instead of vulgar disclosure
have so largely helped to make her fortune, is making an
increased sensation in New York. The Herald, the Sun,
and the World, have lately devoted from two to six
columns in a Sunday’s issue to her ! and for days previ-
ously the World advertised that its Sunday edition would
contain “ two large-sized views of Oarmencita’s slipper.”
Should her feet be as sole-full as those of an American
actress now in Australia, the World will require to stretch
a point to get both in one page.
After nine years’ absence Emily Soldene has appeared at
Frisco Tivoli in “The Drum Major’s Daughter.”
J. L. Toole showed at Albury on his way over on Friday
night.
D’Arcy Stanfield’s crowd and the Taylor-Oarrington
combination are having a rough time with the N.Q. floods.
It is denied that the Kendals are about to built a
theatre in New York. An American writer states that
Mrs. K.’s smug hypocritical affectation of super-theatrical
purity has alienated from her the affection of all other
performers.
Jennie Lee will shortly produce “ Run Wild,” a play of
which she has purchased the Australian rights from Willie
Edouin. The heroine is a warm-hearted girl, full of mis-
chief, and the incidental business is likely to suit the little
woman.
A. H. Gee, an amateur baritone well known in Sydney,
will make his first appearance on the operatic stage in
“ Boccaccio.” Tenor Kennedy, of “ Twa hours at hame ”
fame, also joins the Nellie Stewart Co.
J. R. Rogers and Minnie Palmer have been thrown from a
carriage at Manchester (Eng.). Minnie was badly bruised;
John had his leg broken. Good and inexpensive “ad.”
for “ yours merrily.”
The Victorian Orchestra management have appealed to
the Melbourne City Council for “ concessions ” in the
matter of the rent paid for using the Town Hall. The
appeal was referred to the Public Works Committee. The
orchestra was never at any time a “ public ” work.
A project is on foot to import to Melbourne ere Cup
week a large party of military musicians picked from the
crack English regimentffl bands. Preliminaries are now
being arranged, and the venture will be managed by a
well-known firm of entrepreneurs.
Bernhardt has been rehearsing for Cleopatra with a live
snake.
“ Niblo” (Thomas Clarke), the once-famous trapezist, is
dead. He wa» styled “Niblo” by a manager who had
a lot of single-letter Btbndin posters on hand, and, wish-
ing to use them, manufactured the name.
A big theatrical and general testimonial, promoted by
George Ooppin, Messrs. T. N. Fitzgerald, G. B. W. Lewis,
George Musgrove, Alfred Dampier and others, is to be
presented to the veteran critic, Doctor James Edward
Neild.
Hambleton, the favourite bush comedian of Melbourne,
in very old times, is now a preacher.
George Darrell has been unhusking some hoary old
hickory-nuts at Ballarat with great success under Mac-
Mahonian management.
It is said that Wallace, who composed “Maritana" in
Sydney, married a Maori girl named Tatea in New Zealand.
Bay, comedian of the old Queen’s Theatre, Melbourne,
turned it up, went shepherding in the bush, and got so
absorbed reciting that the dingoes killed 37 of his sheep.
He was fined £l2O, but hadn’t a cent. Went to chokey.
Recited there, and got let loose on the world again.
A young lieutenant, son of the great tragedian
Macready, now serves with the English army in India.
This is explained by Macready having, at about 75 years
of age—like Premier Parkes —married a young lady, his
s eoond wife. Mrs. Macready still lives, and is likely to
live another generation.
The late Sir Win. Stawell was a poor,
meagre-looking, whiffling young man when he
started at the Bar. Once he had to defend a hulk-
ing fellow, and said to the jury, “ Regard this
miserable creature in the dock.” The prisoner
put in “Miserable yourself ! Who are you calling
miserable ?”
An English writer cleverly says of “Miss
J.,” the young woman who pursued the Duke of
Wellington with an eye to his conversion and his
coronet, that she “ appears to have been one of
those persons, not very uncommon, and occa-
sionally met with by most men during their lives,
with a deep and false sense of religion, and no
conscience whatever.”
It is related of the present Duchess of
Marlbrough that one of her old escapades was when
out driving with two young men, one on either
side of her. During the drive, finding two hands
slipped ingratiatingly into her muff, where they
felt about for her own, she quietly withdrew her
fingers and thrust them under the rug. The two
hands came in contact, grasped each other and
squeezed lovingly. The two young men looked
vacantly at the horse’s ears and were filled with
inward joy. The future duchess, with her hands
warmly folded under the rug, also looked at the
horse’s ears with a faint sphinx-like smile.
The 45th annual report of the New York
Life Insurance Company, published in our
columns to-day, is full of eloquent figures showing
wonderful achievements during 1889. A total in-
come of £6,000,672 Is. 3d. means an increase in
income over 1888 of £774,070 13s. 2d. Paid to
policy-holders £2,494,057 19s, Id.; and total
assets, January 1, 1890, of £21,615,967 ss. 6d.;
increase in assets, £2,381,360 19s. 9d. Number of
policies issued during the year 39,499, insuring
£31,094,463. The New York Life is a purely
mutual company, with investments of the most
productive character, and has made greater per-
manent advances than any other company, while
care in the selection of lives has given the
company a more favourable mortality than
other companies. The New York Life was
the first company to recognise the policy-
holder’s right to paid-up insurance, in case of a
discontinuance of premiums, by originating and
introducing, in 1860, the first non-forfeiture
policies. This Company also was the first, and
for 35 years the only Company, to omit from its
policies the clause making them void in case of
suicide. This Company issues a greater variety of
policies than any other company, and the results
of its tontine investment policies have, not been
equalled by any other company. No useless re-
strictions upon residence, travel, or occupation.
This Company is domiciled in Australia, pays all
claims at the neai’est branch-office, and is in every
way amenable to. the jurisdiction of the colonial
courts.
CORRESPONDENCE
“G. S. Stephenson” (W.A.); Very welcome
indeed... “Subscriber” (Ipswich, Q.): Yes, at Morpeth
... “M. L. O.”: Why we don’t allow “our esteemed cor-
respondents,” J. Smith or E. De Yere Robinson to cal
Tub Bulletin “your valuable paper” in these columns isl
that the thins; sounds too much like patronage. We don’t
like being patronised—that’s all “Nil”: Not suitable
“Peter D ”: Why not show your machine to such
a man as Mr. F. Lassetter? “A. H. Bruce”: Have
already made the acquaintance of Swedenborg. Thanks.
... “Timothy Tumpkins” : Your remarks seem at pre-
sent muddily incoherent; will give them time to settle
down “W. N.” (Berry Jerry): Bank-note-gold story a
mossy chestnut “Reips”: Good, but too stilted in
style “S. B.”: You, as a citizen, would have to serve.
It is one of the duties apportioned to you by the law
“Candide et constanter”: Many thanks “Paul B.”
(W.A.): Much obliged.... “L. L.”(K.): In the charge ot
the 600, Balaclava, there were 113 killed, 134 wounded.
Only two escaped without either horse or man being
touched. Cardigan had a slight sword-thrust in the
thigh “Subscriber”: Write to Max Wurcker, King-
street, or Paling, George-street....“ Henry D ”:
Study Latin and Greek; read Addison, Steele, Sterne,
Macaulay, Morley, Huxley, Buskin and the poets, hut
imitate no one. ...“Australian Native”: The Ulster
deputation, if it comes here, will argue against home
rule, and will then only be arguing against Australian
self-government. That is all “ M. 0.0.” ; Anyone who
poisons a dog to spite the owner is a mean coward but
the man who poisons dogs because the owner, despite
entreaty, allows them to injure the health of neighbours
by their noise, is perfectly justified in default of a speedy
and sufficient legal remedy. The “ British privilege ”of
“ doing as you like on your own ground ” may he
stretched till it breaks “M. Lemon”: What is
the real programme of the “ Australian Natives ” ?
Their leaders give about 1500 different versions
of it “Vixen”: Next week, very likely...
“ W. 0.0.”; “ P.’s ” letter does not touch the Christianity
aspect of the divorce question at all. Either the Bible
means what it says or it doesn’t mean what it says. If
every word-twister is to screw round plain English and
make a theology to suit himself, it is surely time to
abandon “revelation.” “Tom Freeman”: The first
page looks promising. It will be a long read.... “ Hugh
K. Liptus ”: Many thanks. Next week, perhaps ...
“ Lola ” (Mount E.) : Morgan was not shot by the police.
The shooter was one Quinlan, or Wenlavv, and his weapon
was a fowling-piece. Mr. MTherson, the owner of
Peeohelha station, was walking from the homestead with
the bushranger, who was about to secure a blood-horse
belonging to the station, and M‘Pherson stepped aside in
order that Quinlan might have a pot-shot at the blood-
thirsty highwayman—who had committed several very
cruel murders “Sam Cliffe”: We have already
fired off your original joke. Geniuses jump together.
“A Five Years’ Reader” (Wellington, N.Z.):
Many thanks “ H.L.8.” ; To hand. . ..“E.A.E.”
(W.): The story is probable enough —it is quite
possible, anyhow. The writer has conversed with a man
who had been shot through the brain, and has seen a man
with a bullet in his brain walk a quarter of a mile to a
surgery. A former police magistrate, of Dubho (N'S.W),
lived and talked for weeks after being fatally shot through
the brain. [Numerous letters held over.]


A.SAUNDERS,
Watches and Jewellery are like good wives—they are
worth having.
Send for Illustrated Price List. Post Free.
813 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
(Nearly opposite Railway Station).
Factories: Liverpool and London, England.
£2 10s. English Lever, Two Years’ Guaranteed
£:? 10s. English Lever, “The Unequalled,” full cap
£4 English Lever, “ The Special,” compensated.
20/- The Unequalled Keyless Watch. 20/-
Country Residents and Visitors
o A. SAUNDERS, 813 George
Railway Station), SYDNEY.
to Sydney call or send
Street (nearly opposite
Wolfe’s Schnapps—a mild stimulant.
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
Ladi es’ Silver Watches, 355. Daiims & Co.,
Arcade.
A BOON TO HUMANITY.
’Tisfood for young and food for old,
It gives new life and vital power,
There’s nothing in the market sold
Like Pemeli/s patent Snow-white Flour.
Buy Wolfe’s Schnapps by the bottle.
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
A good bed companion—Wolfe’s Schnapps.
Bona-Fide announcement. Highest cash price
given for all kinds of gent’s left off clothing.
Dress-suits for sale or hire. Letters promptly
attended to by QUITTENTON BROS., 11l
Russell street, MELBOURNE. {New number,
163.)
Recommended by doctors -Wolfe’s Schnapps.
Buy Wolfe’s Schnapps by the bottle.
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
If out of sorts try Wolfe’s Schnapps.
Many in and out of the city will be pleased to
know that Ckkklman and Co., photographers in
the Sydney Arcade, have reduced their charges
for photographs. Cabinets now 15s. per dozen.
The original genuine article—Wolfe’s Schnapps.
The Professional and Literary men of London
give their preference to Esteubkook’s “ Relief ”
Pen. It is a swift and easy writer, and preserves
the characteristics of the hand. Samples free at
all Stationers.-
Advise your friends to drink Wolfe’s Schnapps
The Rum ford Plains Tragedy.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
I.
Statement made bv Gilbert Vaughan, Manager
oe the L.S.D. Bank, Wattleville.
It was a serious difficulty, and had overtaken
me so suddenly that my presence of mind entirely
forsook me, and I saw no way out of it except by
instant escape. There was the dead body, slain
by my hand, and in a few moments I should be
confronted with the girl whom I had intended to
ask to be my wife that morning. How was Ito
face her, knowing how fondly she had loved the
poor victim ?
The act had been quite unintentional; although
there had never been much love lost between us,
I had never meant liis death. It had been simply
the fault of hasty temper on my side and un-
fortunate curiosity on his. I had ridden over that
morning with my heart filled with the gentlest
feelings ; the bright morning and sunny landscape
seemed to whisper nothing but peace, and now,
by an inconsiderate blow, I had dispelled all my
h ipes, and saw no escape but in instant and imme-
diate flight. To continue standing by the poor
corpse was the act of an idiot. By a strange
chance no one was about; I had ridden up quite
unperceived. So I mounted my horse and hastened
back to the township I had left that morning with
such different feelings.
My duties at the bank that day (I was the
manager of a small country branch) were, fortu-
nately for me, of the slightest, for my mind was
constantly running on that morning’s tragedy, and
X was ceaselessly wondering if my deed had yet
been discovered, and picturing the sorx-ow of the
innocent girl whom I loved so fondly. At thre e
0 clock I heard a voice in the bank asking the
teller if I was in, and soon afterwards, to my
amazement, Ah Foo, the Chinese cook at Rumford
Plains, walked into the small apartment that
served as manager’s room.
As he glanced at me with his cunning almond
eyes I saw in a m®ment that my secret was
known, and it did not need that he should take
out two small objects and place them on the table
to confirm this suspicion. For an instant I had
wild thoughts of shooting him down with the
bank revolver and swearing that he tried to stick
up the place, but I restrained myself in order to
hear what he had to say.
" I saw you kill him, Misser Yawn, and I welly
glad. No fear I say anything. Evelybody ask ;
Ino savee. Fvelybody say Misser Muspius; I
no savee, only laugh. Missee Lawrence she Gy,
dy, all day. Think it Misser Muspius doee.”
‘‘Ah Xoo, I said, ‘‘you’re a brick; here’s a
sovereign for you. ”
‘ Allight, Misser Yawn. I no savee who kill
him, only, when evelybody say, Misser Muspius’
I laugh,” and he laughed himself out of the room
only to reappear for an instant. “You go, see
Missee Lawrence to-night ?” he whispered in a
stage aside, and vanished.
O i course I would. I would make the most of
the golden opportunity. Muspius, my hated
rival, was evidently suspected, and Ah Foo had
slyly confirmed these suspicions. I was safe, so
long as I could bribe Ah Foo; at any rate I would
take his advice and go over to Rumford Plains a
once-it was only five miles, and I would take
care that the suspicions thrown on Muspius should
be confirmed. I had taken the first step in crime ;
the second was not at all hard.
11.
Statement Made bv John Muspius, Superin-
tendent of Mekridale Station.
It was a pure accident, but a most unfortunate
one, to happen on the very morning when I rode
over to Rumford Plains to propose to Miss
Lawrence. Just as I was going to hang my horse
up I saw Tommy standing at the low fence, with
his head over the second rail, watching me. Now,
I had had more than one bridle broken through
his tricks, and after ineffectually telling him
several times to clear out, I gave him a tap with
the double of my whip. It caught him on the
back of the neck, and, to my astonishment, he
dropped down dead. It struck me at once that
no one would believe it was an accident, for onlv
the other evening I had got into a dispute with
Lawrence about shooting blacks in North Queens-
land ; and he had said that ho would not trust
anyone’s life in my hands. Of course he was in a
temper because I had the best of the argument,
but this acoidmt happening just after such a
remark would look altogether too suspicious ; and
besides, I dared not face Miss Lawrence, for I knew
how fond she was of Tommy. There was no one
about, so I just rode quietly off and into Wattle-
ville to think it over.
About half-past two that afternoon old Jennings
the landlord of the Royal, told me that Ah Foo’
the cook at Rumford Plains, wanted to see me.’
Well, Ah Foo, ’ I said, when the old scoundrel
came in, ‘what do you want?” I had no sus-
ui mou at the that he had witnessed the ui,
happy affair. He grinned- and made a motion
\vi. . .iis arm like sinking a blow, that at once
proved to me he knew all. “ Welly unlucky
Misser Muspius,” he said, “ poor Tommy—dead.’’
Ah ! I said ; it cap tbe helped. You know
I never meant to kill him.”
“ I savee,” he replied, “ I saw you. Everyone
r.ay Misser Yawn kill Tommy. I no savee, only
augh. Missee Lawrence cly, cly, cly.” So that
confounded bank jaukeroo, Vaughan, was sus-
pected, was he ? Well, the very best thing that
could happen. I gave Ah Poo a Sovereign, and he
winked and Said, “ You go see Missee Lawrence,
I think welly good.” Then he vanished. Under
the circum tances this was excellent advice, and I
determined to follow it. Of cour. e I would not
go out of my way to shift the blame on to
Vaughan, but if anything was said about the
matter I would not hide my opinion of him. All’s
fair in love and war. Besides, he had no business
to be out there at that time in the morning ;
serve him right if it was the means of getting him
into trouble.
111.
Extract from the Diary of Miss Selina
Lawrence.
May Ist. —Such an unhappy commencement to
the day ; I never thought I should feel so glad
afterwards as Ido now. About 11 o'clock papa
came to me to say that poor Tommy was dead—
killed, seemingly, by a blow on the back of the
neck! I almost fainted when I heard it.
The men were all away at the yards, and no
strangers had been seen about the place. Poor
Tommy; 1 cried bitterly all the morning. His
body was laid out and I put some flowers on hint?
he was such a good-hearted, faithful fellow. Papa
is very indignant and says he will never rest
until the guilty party is found out; I never saw
him so rou ed before. He says it is a most
abominable crime to be committed in broad day.
While I was still sorrowing over poor Tommy's
fate the mail arrived. Such glorious news ! A
letter from Fred saying that h's uncle lias retired
and handed his practice over to him; so now
there’s no reason why we can’t get married at
once and bring our long engagement to an end—so
he writes. Papa’s very pleased, too; he says that
the practice is worth nearly two thousand a year,
and we are actually going to start to Sydney to-
morrow morning, so I’m tired out packing up.
Mr. Vaughan and Mr. Muspius came over this
evening. They both seemed so absent-minded
df] £ j
CL cl’ ,
and jealous of each other. I suppose, papa told
them what had h ippened when they went out on
the verandah to smoke, for they both, I am glad
to say, went away early.
Poor Tommy! this good news put his death
almost clean out of my head for the moment.
IV.
Statement of Ah Foo, Cook at Rumford
Plains.
(Translated into ordinary/ Enr/Hsh.)
I remember May Ist. I was looking out of tlm
kitchen window when I saw Mr. Vaughan ride
up. Just as he was going up to the house. Tommy,
Miss Lawrence’s pet emu, came up and pecked
at the buckles on his saddle-pouch, and his horse
started back and broke h : s bridle. Mr. Vaughan
turned back and caught his horse and when Tommy
came up again, he hit him with the butt-end (if
his whip on the back of his neck, and knocked
him down. After looking at him for a minute, In-
got on his horse again and rode back to town. I
went out to see if Tommy was dead, and as he
was not quite, I finished him, for he was always
in mischief. Just then I saw Mr. Muspius coming
so I put Tommy up against the fence with his head
through, to hold him up, and went back into the
kitchen. Mr. Muspius looked round when he got
off and saw Tommy, so he gave him a flick with
the double of the stockwhip he was carrying, and
Tommy tumbled down. He thought he’d killed
him, for he got on his horse again and rode away
just the same as Air. Vaughan. I put poor Tommy
up again with his head through the fence, and
just then Mr. Lawrence came along. “There’s
that d emu,” he said, “trying to get into
the garden and he picked up a stick and threw
it at him, and down went poor Tommy. I came
out and looked at him and he looked at me. “My
word,” I said, “Missee Lawrence make a fuss.”
“Hush,” he said,” you no savee anything ; ’ and
he gave me a pound—and he went in and tell
Missee some bominable wletcli killed Tommy.
That afternoon I went in to Wattleville, and
Mr. Muspius gave me a pound not to tell, and Mr.
Vaughan gave me another. Then, in the even-
ing, Missee Lawrence came into the kitchen and
said : “Ah Poo, Im going to Sydney to-morrow
morning to get married. Here's a pound to bury
poor Tommy properly.”
Next morning young Wilson, the new-chum,
from the next station, came over, and lie said,
when he saw Tommy : “ Ah Poo, I want an emu-
skin to send home to England, to say I shot him.
You skin me this nicely and I’ll give you a pound. ’
That velly good emu, that makee me hive
pounds.
DELCOMYN.
Dear Bulletin, —I read that a drunken
man, in Melbourne, lay out in the open, speech-
lessly intoxicated, for a whole night, and that,
when ultimately run in, the sum of £lO was found
in his pockets. That reminds me of how my
gentlemanly friend Trooper Jack M , once
a dashing officer in the N.S.W. constabulary,
came to leave the force. Fancy it is M— who
is speaking, and this is how he.»old it me : —I was
stationed in a one-horse township where the only
other policeman was the lock-up keeper, a married
man. One day I was out on my one-street beat
and I noticed, lying outside a pub. door, a filthy
heap of drunken raggery, too dirty almost to
touch with a pitchfork. I sauntered past, super-
ciliously—a way we have in the foorce. I passed
him a dozen times, perhaps, but let him snore
away unheeded. Presently the landlord came out
and asked me, as a personal favour, to
hump the loafer along to the lockup. I
looked at the heap of blistering humanity and
thought vaguely of insecticide, disinfectants and
so on, but, as we bobbies had to keep sweet with
publicans, it behoved me to pocket my disgust and
run in the unfortunate psoriasist; so I engaged
two blackfellows to carry the beggar along to the
Jogs. Arrived there, the keeper’s wife entered
the charge on the sheet, as the keeper himself was
a-bed- with “ fever-’n-aiger.” I let the helpless
tatterdemalion fall backwards into the cell, and
was about to lock the cell-door, when Mrs. Keeper
renarked —“I suppose we ought to search him
and take everything from him?” replied I—“ I
don't like to touch him just now. He’s a
mere drunken loafer and hasn't got any-
thing, I expect. ” Mrs. Keeper, however, insisted,
and as lovely woman's wish was always
my weakness, I gingerly “went through him,”
gave him a rat-shake, and 10, something fell out
from somewhere. I looked at Mrs. Keeper. She
looked coldly and matter-of-fact like at me, and
merely said, “Count it.” I did. It was all in
notes —£397 sterling.” That woman entered it
down as if it were a pair of socks in a washing-
bill. Then she locked up the loot and resumed
her “ official ” station, I went outside to curse.
Bringing my conduct under my own mental re-
view, I was so disgusted that I discharged myself
from the force that night—i.e., I wrote out my
resignation. My verdict was; “Jack M ,
you’re too soft an idiot to adorn the police. Here’s
the very chance you’ve been waiting for, and you
never smelt it under your nose, nor saw it beneath
your eyes. £397 sterling ! Go in mourning. Jack,
and resign at once.” And I did. Yours, The D.
A wink from a baron is strong drink to a
toady.
Mr. B. Mountcastle, the well-known tee-
total Sydney hatter, has occupied the same stand
in George-street for 50 years.
“ It’s almost impossible to get a good drop
of spirits anywhere,” is an often overheard com-
plaint. To this we have but one form of reply—
“ Why don’t you drink Wolfe’s Schnapps, that
can always be guaranteed pure?”
The barque Menschikoif has been chartered
by a Sydney syndicate for a whaling trip in the
South Seas. The captain thinks he will fill her in
eight months. One thing is certain —there will b 0
no trouble in getting winders in N.S.W.
Pastor Smailes is billed to preach his
second sermon on “Is there any Probation after
death ? ’ People want to hear the good pastor
on “Is there anything after death ?” Who knows
more about this question than the world did ten
thousand years ago ?
Rebuked for having dropped a shirt-button
into the offertorial bag, lie inquired loudly ;
“ Don’t you send out red shirts to the heathen?”
“Yes, certainly we do, was the reply. “Well
then; do you know anything more conducive to
sincere impiety than wearing red shirts without
any buttons on them ? ”
A certain Italian scientist, who is an
enthusiastic collector of ethnological specimens,
has been compelled, on arrival at Port Moresby
to return certain specimens taken by force from
the New Guinea natives. This incident, in which
there may be a spice of national jealousy, has
been quoted by sundry papers in justification of
the justice of British rule.
In connection with the recovery in Mel-
bourne by informer x\ddy of £2OOO odd in penalties
aga nst an exchange-bank which had not com-
plied with legal technicalities in the conduct of
its bus ness, it is stated that a crusade is to be
made under the auspices of a well-known attorney
against a lot of the more or less bogus banks and
companies of Sydney with a view to obtaining the
pemvties recoverable in certain cases under the
Banks and Companies’ Act. A vigorous crusade
in this duect’on would make a pile for any shrewd
man.
An Unscrupulous Foe
ò
truly,
H. GARKELL.”
BEERY
The ruling nations of the world drink beer—the
tough, stubborn Briton drinks ale and beer —the
strong, hardy German drinks beer, and the
American is beginning to drink more beer than
anything else. The Australian drinks St. Louis
Lager Beer, because there is no drink in the world
so conducive to social intercourse. It gently
moves the blood to accelerated action and arouses
the generous sentiments that cluster around the
human heart.


ING d)0
? Celebrated
. v?—
o
RREWCDCI
ssa
PORTS
r°\
•Tiußoryt. iND.s
%// w
,yioic . F, B.WhEELER & C?jgs^uatf
If in need of a stimulant take Wolfe’s Schnapps
BUGGIES, BUCEBOARDS,
—Axd—
VICTORIAS,
At MANUFACTURERS’ PRICKS.
Send for Catalogues and Prices to
THE F. E. WHEELER CO.,
265 Clarence Street. SYDNEY.
Personal Items.
Schuler succeeds J. C. Allen as leader of
Melbourne Auk staff.
The Mormon Bishop Taylor left 50 stal-
wart sons. Good old Taylor !
Jimmy Minims neither smokes, drinks,
nor swears. But his shareholders do.
Peter Lalor told Nicholls, in Eureka
Stockade, that the tight was “ for Independence.”
Mona Caird’s very latest: “Nothing but
mutual brain-softening can make a marriage pros-
perous.”
After all, David Buchanan only left £7OOO,
Which was not much to make in defending horse-
thieves for 20 years.
Bismarck has 103 decorations, 14 of them
being orders set in brilliants. And they call him
the man of blood and iron.
Young Dr. Morrison, of Now Guinea ex-
ploring celebrity, practises as a doctor in tspain,
and is about to return to Australia.
Miss Braddou always stands to her work
when engaged writing a novel. Which possibly
accounts for her readers feeling so very tired.
There is milk in the cocoa-nut. Whose
brother-in-law is defendant Gormley, ex-director
of the Premier Permanent Building Society?
John Howell, the retiring governor of
Adelaide gaol, is a poet, and is a unique instance
of a poet making money out of mining-shares.
The late Captain Johnston, of Annandale,
Sydney, who dual when over DO years old, was the
first Australian native to enter the British navy.
Judge Boucaut (S.A.) acknowledges he
m ide a big slip o/e-r that famous Bible “ inter,
jebtioii ” controversy at Adelaide criminal sessions
Fawkuer’s house, the lirst erected in Mel-
bourne, was only pulled down about a year ago
' and now tue site is covered over with a tine ware-
house.
Mrs. Hooker, one of Henry Ward Beecher’s
sisters, was a Free Lover, and when she heard of
the Tilton case she calmly asked; “Why don't
the man own up?”
Miss Dorothy Tennant, Brigand Stanley’s
bride, is, we presume, identical with the lady of
that name who contributes so much sentimental
matter to the English reviews.
Frank Thornton’s “Private Secretary” is
the portrait of a curate he met in an omnibus, at
Barnes, near London, sitting between a couple of
young ladies with his hands on his umbrella.
Henry George and wife, recently visiting
at a Toorak house where the guests are usually
provided with gilded handles to their names, were
announced by the butler as “ Sir Henry and Lady
George.”
Judge Chubb, of Queensland, “ always
tr aits doctors as gentlemen,” and does not require
them to depose on oatii to the truth of medical
certificates explaining the absence of persons
summoned as jurors.
A San Francisco paper extensively chaffs
Henry George over certain particulars—relating to
his connection with the ’Fki -eo Even no Post—
in an autobiographical sketch supplied by him to
the Australian Press.
Mars Miller, Money Miller’s brother, Jives
quietly at Brunswick, poor but liappy. lie has
a ouiious fancy lor putting on his fathers old
military uniform, and playing a brass kettledrum,
in the hallelujah band.
Thus Gympie Miner We do not
know if Henry George is aware that the names
which he has borne for f)0 years signify icspec-
tively, the prtenomen ‘a rich lord,’ and the cogno-
men “ a husbandman.’'
The late Thadeus O’Kane said to a friend
but a few months ago that bis pattern Gladstone
was 10 years older than he, and that he (T.O’K.)
reckoned on doing at least 10 years’ more work.
It was fated to be otherwise.
According to the Colonies and India, a
Mr. Herbert A. Yelwin “ has named his charming
residence at Torquay, ‘ Woolloomooloo.’” Mr.
Yelwin couldn’t have given himself away more
neatly if he had labelled it “Toorak.”
“Another scoffing lawyer,” says the local
Observer, “has refused to recognise as valid the
episcopal signature ‘W.G., Auckland,’to a deed.
He says it may stand for William George, the
dog-man, just as readily as for a bishop.”
A Collins-street man, who did about a
decade in “chokey,” has got quite back to his
former varnish, and in the same haunts, too. The
modern world has learnt to be merciful. Nobody
knows when he himself may have to go to gaol.
Until a fortnight ago, when two new ap-
pointments were made, the British Army boasted
of five Field Marshals. These included Gamp-
ridge, Tummy, and Lord Napier. The latter is
already dead, and the others have never been
alive, in a military sense.
Radical Sydney was surprised and de-
lighted to find Chief Justice Darley so liberal on
the Sunday question. It was generally thought
that his Honor’s views were in an opposite direc-
tion, despite his liberal utterances in the Collins’
“ blasphemous publication ” case.
Miss Edith Walker, who has given to
N.S.W. Art Gallery Edwin Long’s picture, “A
Dorcas Meeting in the Sixth Century,’ is the as
yet unappropriated blessing who inherited between
one and two millions sterling from her father, the
late Thomas Walker, of Concord, Sydney.
The British Government having up to
now allowed the survivors of the Light Brigade
chaige, at Balaclava, to live and die in all sorts of
work-houses and dog-holes, Melbourne Age, at
the instance of a correspondent, is receiving
subscriptions in aid of a fund for the survivors.
Froude’s fellow-passenger to these colonies
by the 8.8. Australasian, on whom lie conferred a
very dubious sort of immortality in “ Oceana,’ as
‘ the gentleman who played chess passably and
the piano like a professional,” resides in Victoria-
street, Darlinghurst, Sydney. He is a professional
—piano-tuner.
Labouchcrc says that one of the lawyers
present at the May brick trial said that Mrs. May
brick might have been acquitted bad it not been
that she could not get her usual dye for her hair,
and that it consequently looked like tow. A
woman, be she prisoner, petitioner, or co-respon-
dent, must dress for her role.
rile offence of Kenmiler, the first Ameri-
can murderer to judicially die by electricity, lay
m kicking his mistress to death a couple of years
ago. He would have been electrized long ago but
for the fact that the Westinghouse Electric Light
Co. had made up its mind that nobody shou d be
killed with its apparatus without its consent.
Samuel Locke, ex-M.P, of Auckland, N.Z.,
djed suddenly the other day after receiving from
England an astrological almanack, from which he
learned that a great danger threatened him in the
month in which he died. Lots of white people
are like the South Sea islanders : they believe
they are going to die, and they die accordingly.
I’he much-married Sala got £5 damages
from artist Furuiss as a solatium for the damage
done to his feelings by the latter’s statement at
a big guzzle that Sala once drew a foot—he was
an artist in his younger days -with six toes on it,
and that he acquired his knowledge of cookery
through being employed to decorat? a cook-shop.
The editor of the Hamilton .Spectator,
in a late issue, sings the praises of a little thing of
QUITE THE THING.
FIRST DEDELET: “Ah! living at Redfern! deuced smoky, ain’t it!’
SECOND DEDELET : “Ya—as! But then don’t you know the beastly place has its
advantages. It’s near the railway-station, and I take truck-shunting
exercise every mawning. It’s quite the thing, you know, since the dear
Guv. did it at Bourke and all the papers went into eestawsies ovah it.
All the best people go truck-shunting now, you know!”
his own —to wit, a turnip weighing 211 b, He
thinks a dish of such turnips would look well
round a leg of mutton.” We deeply regret to
notice that a once-respeetable and prosperous
journal has sunk so low as to be compelled to give
barefaced hints to the local butcher.
Worthy Alfred Woolley, who died in
Melbourne the other day, was the first man (in
conjunction with partner Campbell) to put whisky
upon the Victorian market. It is nearly fifty
years ago since the evergreen James Cowie im-
ported the first shipment to Geelong of a liquor
which was then little known outside of Scotland.
He sold it to Woolley and Campbell, and a fine
taste for Mountain Dhu began to make itself felt
from that time forward. That was the real
genuine usher whisky.
An article we have just read upon the old
Cheshire Cheese Tavern, in Fleet-street, London,
speaks of “ Congreve’s wit flashing as he sat with
legs comfortably stretched under the tables, as
Pope, Goldsmith, Chatterton and Garrick came
and went. ” Considering that Chatterton, a boy
of seventeen, was only in London for five months,
during most of which time he was starving, it is
difficult to believe that the infant phenomenon
came to the Cheshire Cheese) unless it was to
potter around after broken victuals.
Bhavasinghi, an Indian princclct with a
soul for froe-lunch, who lately did “Australia,”
complains to a Bombay \ aper that he had to pay
for his ticket oh the N.S. W. and Vh-torian rail-
ways, while in Tasmania and N.Z. h ■ was fur-
nished with “orders” till■ further orders. From
this we inferred that royal deadheads had been
abolished at last in the former provinces. But,
alas, it turns out that Banjosinghigh w 7 as com-
pelled to sing low and pay up because ho had
forgotten to bring his references with him.
POLITICAL POINTS
If populated as densely as Europe, Aus-
tralia would possess 370,000,000 souls.
With Bismarck’s resignation disappears
France’s last chance of ever again re-acquiring
Alsace.
By the last general census (1881) fi2 per-
cent. of the population of New South Wales were
native-born.
Unless rumour lies considerably the N.S. W.
Foreign-trade As eolation loafs heavily on mil-
lionaire Burdekin.
Gympie Miner alludes to Henry George
as “ a gentleman with a millennium in his right-
hand trousers pocket.”
Parkes had to go to The Bulletin for the
poetry in his “big Federal speech.” He says he
“never sees The Bulletin.”
Treasurer M‘Millau stated, in answer to a
quest! n, that “only 27” o' our spindleshaiikcd
fellow-subject? from India arrived in Sydney in
one week.
With the repeal of the N.S.W. Party
Processions Act, John Haynes will possibly come
out in his true colours. Yellow (with a strong
substratum of green) will set off John’s fiery
whiskers.
Gladstone says that “ Freetrade is under-
going a period of danger.” And yet the Aus-
tralian Cobdenites eternally proclaim that “ all
the sophistries of Protection were effectually and
fir ever disposed of 40 years ago.”
A great philosopher defines dirt as “a
thing which ought not tube where it is.” Most
politicians ought not to be where they are. The
conclusion which naturally follows is too terrifying
to be calmly inspected with the naked eye. °
Henry George, in his farewell Sydney
lecture, referred jubilantly to J. P. T. Caulfield’s
conversion from Protection to Freetrade and
Single-tax. Mr. George regards Boy Politician
Caulfield as “a man of the Future.” Henry is a
sarcastic dog.
B. R Wise talks learnedly about the
Federalist of Alexander Hamilton and James
Madison. 'But he has apparently only just heard
of the work. And Parkes and MUMillan never
heard of it till after- the February Conference.
Then they got copies.
Albert A ictor, it is cabled, is now Duke of
Clarence, an admirable title to revive, with the
remembrance of the fellow who kicked off Dora
Jordan, whose line of bastards get into the royal
lineage again with the Duke of Fife. This name,
Clarence, will keep on rubbing the salt into the
wound nicely.
Kingston, the brainy member of the S.A.
Opposition party, is in a quandary. There is at
present a tendency to throw him over in favour of
•Sir John Bray. This is what led to recent rumours
that he intended to join the Cockburn Ministry.
The political situation in S. A. is particularly
interesting just now.
Victoria is more Hinglish than Hingland.
Her citizens are eternally protesting their loyalty
to “ the Throne and Sovereign,” her papers
‘■gush” more over the same fetishes than do
their English comtemporaries, and her churches
and halls resound with exhortations to “be loyal.”
“Ain’t it sick’nin?”
Most French Courts of Justice have either
a painting of the Crucifixion, or a large Crucifix,
on the wall behind the judge or magistrate. The
Minister of Justice and political Minister of
Religion refuse to take them down because
“ people can take them just as they please.” For
agnostical cynicism one must go to France.
•Stead says that the circulation of the
Tunes is only 25,000, and that it will be shortly
reduced in price to a penny. It is at the shrines
of such played-out, unreal gods as this that we are
asked to worship. The once-dreaded fulminations
of the clergy now appeal only to the old women of
both sexes. When the Tunis “ thunders,” people
now hear not heavy artillery, but only the tom-
tom of political superstition.
Varney Parkes, son of the Premier of that
ilk, proposes to re-enter political life Unless Var-
ney can invent an improved Kiarna Ghost or some
little tiling like that, lie had better stick to archi-
tecture, for, to judge by ids legislative perform-
ances up to date, he will always be known as Sir
’Enary’s son, which, when you come to look at it
dispassionately and all round and inside-out, will
b.) a tremendous obstacle in the way of his doing
anything original.
The peroration of the maiden speecli of
Mr. Walter Hussey Vivian, a newly - elected
member of the N.S.W. Parliament, is too good to
be entombed in the, dark grave of Hansard :
it is only by comparison that we can test the relative
m wits of different count l ies, and as I survey in my mind's
eye tile whole of the civilised world, I find that if we con-
centrate all the countries into one great pyramid, the
apex is crowned by New South Wales shedding the light
of her glory, her genius, and her wealth over this vast
ocean of humanity.
“ There are but two possible solutions of
the labour problem : either capital must own the
labour or labour must own the capital. The first
means chattel slavery ; the second national co-
operation. All attempts to settle the question
which include the retention of the competitive
system must, in the very nature of things, fail.
The new wine cannot be kept in old bottles. The
world must either advance into nationalism or
v,.f. H do into slavery.”— Journal of Unitkd
Labour.
- •!>• Czar coolly*announced last week that
Sebastopol i, s again to become purely a military
and naval port, all the commerce being trans-
ferred to another place. And so goes the last
shred uf all England fought for in the Crimea.
Put England really-went to war to establish the
French Usurper, as a catspaw, and failed to do it.
Behind this was the hatred of Victoria and Albei t
to Republicanism. Even the Royalist Kuiglake
exposes the false issues, and the Times is now
punished for hounding on the war.
'I he N.S.W. Civil Service Inquiry Com-
mission still nominally lives, notwithstanding that
its recommendations have been, with but few
exceptions, quickly shelved by the Government.
Messrs. M‘Millau and Whitson could not see their
way clear to continue their work on those terms,
s>» fell out of the running; and now Janies
Thomson lias thrown up the sponge. “Tom”
Bibbs, however, means to stick to the wreck
whilst two planks hang together, and lie
punctually draws his nine little guineas a week.
Abigail, M.P. (N.S.W.), now in England,
denies that the exclusion of the Chinese from
Australia was due to the Protectionists-! Tim
movement was purely a Protectionist one, was
initiated by Protectionist papers and politicians,
and was (this we say on the authority of Mr.
Gladstone, the greatest living Freetrader) in direct
opposition to the doctrines of Cobdenism. The
agitation, until it became irresistible, was but
half-heartedly supported by the Foreign-trade
press, and was only taken up by Parkes to dish
his political opponents. Why should the Foreign-
trader, who imported nigger compositors with
skeleton fingers and poor-turkey legs, suddenly
draw the line at Chinamen?
“Uncle ’ Abigail, M.P., whose “fiscal”
letters to the Times are, let us hope, carefully
revised ere being fired at Buckle, is also attending
to the “ popery ” plank of his political platform in
promoting the visit to Australia of red-hot Orange
lecturers to uphold the Union. Now that the
N.S.W. Party Processions Act has been prac-
tically repealed through the cowardice of a Par-
liament which shrinks from incurring the censure
of the parti-coloured vermin, is just the time for
King Billy’s brigade to invade this country with
reinforcements and bite publicly the ears off the
Pope’s gang. The Bulletin hopes that the
Gatling gun will never be used by any Australian
Government save on the day when the yellow and
green indulge in a faction-fight.
S. E. Lees, M L.A., in arguing for the
repeal of the N.S.W. Party Processions (i.e., man-
slaughter discouragement) Act, pointed out that
the Salvation Army processions paraded the
street and yet no ill-feeling was created—the days
of intolerance were gone. Lees’ claptrap deceives
no one —not even himself. The Salvation Army
makes a big noise, but it tries to inculcate the love
of fellow man, and certainly does a lot of good
in the world to balance its output of religious
mania, whereas the Orange organisation, without
which a lot of prosy geysers would probably not
have the privilege of boring Parliament with their
—er —Municipal-Council English, teaches yon to
love Mr. Sammy Lees, and Uncle Abigail, and
’Ezlot and ’Enson, and all the rest of the hopeless
drones whose nnreportable commonplaces are the
joy of the newspaper stenographers. Most of the
Salvation Army godliness is artless and uncalcu-
lating, whereas Orange piety is beastly deliberate,
and too often the foundation of a seat in Parlia-
ment.


Tv e>
ScLcr-ect !>u)itc I) k:
L n*.-« 3
THE SUNDAY CONCERTS
Mr. M‘Millan said that legislation on this I
• abject wa«> absolutely necessary it would he
I necessarr to deal with it to bring the law more
I into harmony with modern ideas.
//? fi/rcc/?S//?7f> frfOc£er-q
/ s " fa tse ff/ecC "? fe />
fy ajfaS'st'?% rf<° £<>/ °ff'ce
and /£e C o f \
?, /pcZ/ofy? /°?a f
THE RABBIT NUISANCE.
In the ,A ssem bly yesterday afternoon, My.
Hassall drew attention to the urgent necessity
fo r fresh legislation to deal with the rabbit
pesf The bon member emphasised the fact that
something should be dene atonce, otherwise the
pest weald spread to such aa extent that it
would become an extremely difficult matter to
do anything with it at all. To the people
settled oat in the Western districts it had be-
come a matter more important than the land
question, more important than the fiscal question
and more important even than the question
of Federation.
"fA ILAOt 5 Of *
jfafafafare*
faa/ jfoutcCfoU. Secy, V*
rO'C, }/ /o/c/j^OCC
r<?copi.<™ft'^ ses
\uqcS SfoooS'fa-' ss
\foeo
\anfa aSouf
Jyctpeu S*
I '//eyrvfa^
'ft* s ues V '^ a
JSsou.lci
/n O.U fi/y U/jKtytfa
aqcA uf?n?e/ifa J
U)ctr/are r/ I y p r
ji Cause (f U&D°\
J fare f^’ r
Ks/fa
U Sac to
THE DOG TAX.
A petition from the farmers of Ruuga-
walbtn, in the Richmond River district,
was presented by Mr. Nicoll in the
Assembly yesterday. A demand was made
that it iboald be read and, amid much
laughter the Clerk read the document, which
was as follows l! We, the undersigned farmers
of the district of Bnngawalbin, consider it an
injustice that a lax should be levied on their
dogs, that a farmer’s dog is bis protection
against the ravages of vermin which intent this
district.
Ct fIA^Y
7Ae dry , /zurfiosvfcjrs
'/yeyod&yy#/' <? T^ed
rcchoy /s
tfcea s/oy -
a lly ?~e~
//eKPd
J> oy v Sucy
y a &te r*. &?ro A? e
f’e'tvV.oip, <xe—
7/)iff you nof boJ)e -7? ttv.uir ■ .
I: of , 'M r y />■'/<’£■' r S"T?J 9
r ' 1 i Mtre (7'in, i n i i' 1 ■’ J 't -' V ' ,r-
-j/pur 5 S 6 °
/ <r i m
CJ 3'/<z ftp a 2
CIJ ft? <° pftpfto o) /p Op -
RAILWAY REFRESHMENT
ROOMS.
Mention W M road* in th» A**etr>Mv reslerdaT
M tb« cba'ges *t tefresbment rooor
* Mf. Farnell drso- st'eatioa *e c«i
•imo grievances which existed in
with snch room*. *' 1 ' '
' . • ■ ~*■ la one Ci‘« a lai>* bad, taicen me
.gravy off her own plate aad given it to her
child, and for putting a little -bread into the
gravy she was charged another 2s Aid. /
o
MbNfy LENT
on ,c/ery
CJoo P
Peesniss " ,/
Sir Henry Paske* yesterday receieed a
number of oresents A o» the occaaioa of bis 76th birthday.]
CURRENT AFFAIRS.


ss
jjjj
M.
o
\
&
ò
c y
\
~;^rShl~ or L
THE SPIRIT OF ENQUIRY.
GILLIES: “‘Angel s and mini ste r of grace defend I don’t fear Taylor's amendment, but if this apparition isn't stopped, Parliament had better dissolve at once."


Foreign & colonial exchange bank
OF AUSTRALASIA, Limited.
Sydney— B(l King Street.
Melbourne— :U>!) Collins Street.
London Bankers —Australian .Joint Stock Bank,
No. 2 King William Street, London, K.C.
This Bank undertakes the Exchange of Monky,
both International and Intercolonial, includ-
ing the COINAGE OP Alt I'OKKIGN NATION'S, ill
addition to all usual and customary banking busi-
ness.
Deposits Received.
3 years ... ... ••• Si per cent.
12 months 8 percent,
G months 7 per cent.
3 months b per cent.
Communications to be addressed to ”1 ho
Managing Director.
D J WILSON,
Secretary.
The SYDNEY DEPOSIT BAN^,
ao KING STREET —9O
Established ISSS.
Agencies in London and throughout Australia,
Overdrafts granted against Deposit of Deeds,
and all the usual banking business transacted.
The following are the Kates of Interest allowed
for Fixed Deposits
3 Years per cent.
12 Months per cent.
G Months 7i per cent.
3 Months per cent.
5 per cent, allowed on daily balance of current account.
For the past Four (4) Years a Bonus of One per
Cent, has been paid in addition to the above rates.
This is the first and only Bank in the Colonies
which divides its profits with its depositors.
Communications from the country will ba
promptly to. RIcHARDSON
General Manager.
"WF Just Opened a Magnificent Lot of M’e-w Pianos
Also of the wonderful Victor Pianoß «-* «4=5 and
356 George Street, SYDNEY,
from the celebrated Makers, Steinway, Erard, Uebel, Fenrich, Lipp,
:4=5 and Eatey Or No such Variety or A alue
Ronisch, Blnthner, Collard,and
elsewhere for Cash or Terms.
others
Society
People of sensitive and delicate organisa-
tions are advised to avoid the attached paragraph
as they would a serpent. It was perpetrated by
one Charles Marrson, a reverend pastor at Glenelg
(South Australia), and many moral citizens who
have attempted to read it have already faded
away. Listen: —
Allow me to protest against the dirty-minded and in-
solent people who would, under plea ol advocating Gospel
temperance, aflix the brand of harlotry upon those
engaged in one branch of the Christian ministry, our
barmaids. Those hard-working and long-suffering girls,
who truly serve God in their vocation and ministry,
deserve more chivalrous treatment than they receive at
the bands of their reviling accusers. If they have extra
temptations they should receive extra protection,
and not slander and defamation, from those who
care for the beautiful life. 1 indignantly deny that
the vocation of barmaid is generally inconsistent with
chastity. I have many friends among those so engaged,
and honestly believe their profession contains no greater
proportion of lewd women than any other trade. If bar-
maids are exposed to rude and profane language their
virtues are certainly robust enough not to go into a
galloping consumption thereupon, but the rude and pro-
fane language they hear in bars is certainly no ruder or
profaner than they would hear from the smug and sancti-
monious professors of so-called Gospel temperance. 1
can only recommend those unfortunate slanderers to go
regularly to the bar, and drink of the excellent wines of
the colony, and procure the honour of an acquaintance
with a large number of the girls who wait there, and lints
get their unamiable delusions dispelled.
Ahem! “ One branch of the Christian ministry !”
“Truly serve God ”at the beer-pump! Let the.
Church and the Young Men’s Christian Associa-
tion grasp some solid object for support as it reads
these awful words. The reverend teacher “has
many friends ” among barmaids. Also, he calls
his colleagues “ smug and sanctimonious pro-
fessors. ” What a falling-off is here ! And he
wants his congregation to go and liquor up
“regularly.” Great Jones! How regularly, we
would like to know ? And on top of all the other
disasters he asks them to become acquainted with
“a large number” of barmaids —not merely sixteen
Dr so, but a large number—quite irrespective of
Ivhat a fellow’s wife or his best girl would say.
A song :
The Armidale (N.S.W.) bachelors think
that every man should have at least two girls. They
gave a ball the other day, at which were present oO
gentlemen—that is to say, 50 bachelors- and 100
ladies, some of which latter, after coining7o miles to
attend the festivities according to invitation,
were left to sit along the wall. This idea of haying
a wide choice of partners is new to polite society
—the bachelors did not invite anyone engaged in
“ trade ’’—and is apparently of Mormomc origin.
* # *
An alderman named Love, who may be
jealous, objects to the doctors at a northern
N.S.W. hospital calling the nurses by their Chris-
tian names. If there is not love between the hos-
pital doctors and the hospital nurses there is war.
Which is pretty nearly true of all men and women
brought into immediate contact with one another.
# * *
The particular balance-sheet of Mi rams’
Permanent Smash which formed the subject of
Colonel Templeton’s disclosures at the Melbourne
Police Court last week, was adopted at a meeting
held in the Y.M.C.A. Hall. What alot of things
the Secularists have to be thankful tor !
# * *
The maids at Government House, Mel-
bourne, are always suffering from some complaint,
or other. The typhoid epidemic was followed by
an influenza outbreak, and one morning last week
a still more dreadful outbreak put the whole
household, from Hopetoun downwards, in a
twitter, The wail of early infancy was heard
proceeding from elsewhere than the vice-regal
nursery. Enquiries into this mystery resulted in
the discovery, says rumour, that one of the resi-
dent maids had been suddenly seized with a live
bab y- *
A Sydney bank-clerk waited upon his
general manager recently and asked for an increase
PRESCRIBING A TRANSPOSITION.
SHE (to Mr. Johnson, whosebeard is dyed): “DON’T YOU THINK IT WOULD
BE BETTER TO TAKE THE BLACKING OFF YOUR HAIR AND
PUT IT ON YOUR BOOTS?”
of screw, but was met with a refusal, notwith-
standing the fact that several .big increases had
not long before been granted. “ Well, sir, said
the clerk, “ as I see no one has a chance of pro-
motion in this bank outside the family circle, I
have much pleasure in handing yoh ray resigna-
tion.” And he now blooms as a Sydney broker.
# * *
Down at Hawthorne (Melb.) a certain
Revd. Angus has started a marriage business
which only requires judicious advertising to make
it play old gooseberry with Nat. Kinsman’s trade.
is fixed up Coffee P&l&ce, tind a biuss
plate upon one of the portals announces that the
resident shepherd is prepared to celebrate nuptials
at all hours, terms strictly moderate. The advan-
tages offered by the new system are obvious.
Married couples have of late developed a taste for
beginning wedded life in coffee-palaces (the bride s
m jther being careful to point out that the happy
man runs little risk of getting drunk upon the
premises), and here may Edwin and Angelina,
after being married in number 20 room, enjoy all
the delight of a honeymoon trip by simply dump-
ing down their carpet-bags in the chamber adjoin-
ing Kinsman certainly sells h s clients useful
articles of furniture at the little shop in Fitzroy,
but the inconvenience of one flesh taking up their
bed and walking forth into the cruel world is con-
siderable. Better engage furnished apartments
at the Coffee Palace, where the officiating parson
can see his young friends fairly started in their
new life, and breathe oily blessings on their union
through the keyhole.
# # *
Is “Redan” Massey, now in Australia,
identical with Lord Clarina, or is ho not? We
don’t worry much about peerage matters and lesuv e
the question to be decided by the well-known Mr.
C of Sydney, who, when he heard two squatters
talking about “ the Duke of Durham,” promptly
chipwd in * Ya-a-s-Duke great friend of our
family —sort of relation of ours in a way (the fact
being that there is no such person as the Duke of
Durham). “Ah,” said one of the squatters to the
snobbish know-all, “ we are talking about a stud-
bull—your uncle, probably.”
# # e
Sandhurst pietists complain of the militia
drill on Sunday. Have they forgotten that the
glorious Battle of Waterloo was fought on a Sun-
day, when the Lord of Battles so smiled on “our
arms ? And surely if we may act on a Sunday, we
may rehearse.
# # *
The proprietor of Gundagai (N.S.W.)
Times got married the other day and published a
full account of the proceedings and a list of the
gifts, including a pickle-fork and butter-knife, a
silver fish-slice, a terra-cotta jam-barrel, and some
drawn-thread pillow-slips—by way of a leading
article. The Gundagai Times is a lucky paper,
and its new proprietor has made a good start.
The Times’ last owner, Mr. El worthy —father of
the present owner—now in Heaven, left behind
him no less than five thousand pounds sterling-a
thing never previously heard of in connection with
any N.S.W. country paper.
* * *
Did the “Vagabond” coin that neat ex'
pression “ Mount Alorganaire ? ”
# * #
They built a grand brick tabernacle a hi
Spurgeon, in Richmond, Melbourne, for a fashion-
able young preacher named Stewart, but it lias
gone bung, and posters announce an auction sale,
by order of the mortgagees. One would like to
know all about it, for the tabernaeulars are very
mysterious, in nods and becks, and wreathed
smiles. Very likely its “ purely financial.”
* * *
On 24th May Governor Ilopetoun went
out to a vacant allotment near the sea to review
the troops, and a Bui.i.etin man went out to
review Hopctouh, who, under plumes that drooped
over him like a wattle, was almost invisible. He
looked like the pet of the family in his grand-
father’s regimentals. When his funereal-looking
u charger ” commenced to execute a Maypole
dance round the British flag the crowd laughed fit
to seriously injure themselves internally, and
when, On leaving parade, an ironical cheer set the
vice-regal war-horse prancing on his near side-legs,
Imperialism clenched its thin, white lips ami
looked ready to give up the game as not good
enough.
* * *
A man has been arrested in Melbourne
on a charge of paying his honeymoon expenses
with valueless Artful rascal! Under
Shiels’ Divorce Act three years’ gaol means
divorce —and what else does a man want after his
honeymoon ■ Let the Bench be equal to the occa-
sion ; “The sentence of the courtis that you be
imprisoned for two years and eleven months,”
# # *
An Adelaide paper says that a leading
Adelaide grievance is “the open manner in which
the local cabmen are permitted to suggest im-
moral journeys in their vehicles.” If we hadn’t
read anything about Adelaide in the evening
press, we’d have thought that the holy city was a
place in which the cabman’s leading question was
“ Shall I drive you to choir-practice, sir ?”
# # *
Up North a doctor sued a friendly society
for professional attendance. Three witnesses
swore that plaintiff was generally drunk and unfit
to enter anyone’s house Plaintiff replied that he
could always attend to his business however drunk
he was, and put in his written agreement with the
lodge and got a verdict. Drunken doctors must
be ranked, with scrub-fever, alligators, and myall
blacks, among the curses of the Far North.
* * *
The Edison phonograph was lately used in
America for the purpose of enabling a preacher to
read his own funeral-sermon, after death—not-
withstanding that the cynical public, none too
anxious to listen to his words of comfort and
wisdom while he was alive, absolutely didn t want
to hear any more about him after his skedaddlement.
The Bulletin would suggest that the phonograph
be henceforth used to enable the absent bride-
groom to say at the wedding-breakfast that this
is the happiest day of my life also, that Baronet
Clarke’s speeches at Masonic banquets and other-
wist; be phonographed in advance and machined to
his audience.
# * *
The Riverine people, who promised their
bishop a house, “ kindly allowed him to pay two-
thirds of the rental of a house, and when his long-
talked-of residence went up they cheerfully per-
mitted the bishop to give a thousand or so to
defraying the cost and to become liable for the
remainder.”
# * *
The new temperance hotel on the Blue
Mountains is to have public dances every night.
“At halt-past nine the gong will announce the
dance with the order ‘ Ladies and gentlemen, take
your places,’ and to the soul-stirring and brilliant
music will the dance proceed.” So says the share-
prospectus. Yum-yuml And all on coffee, too.
m * *
What the newspapers blandly describe as
an “ unusual occurrence ’ took place the other
day at Collingwood (Melb.). It was nothing
actually alarming only the street suddenly rose
with a shriek and threw itself up in the air, and a
confused mass of paving-stones, women, dogs,
mud, policemen, typhoid-germs, and pieces of
thoroughfare were flung into the atmosphere.
When tiiey all came down again and sorted them-
selves out it was ascertained that an accumulation
of sewer-gas or something had burst, and that
Melbourne was apparently training to go into
business as aji active volcano. It wasn't anything
actually alarming; of course, it was only an
unusual occurrence; and there was an odour
attached to it which is said to have caused a cer-
tain amount of remark—partly because it was also
more or less unusual and partly because it was
strong enough to make an elephant weep and wish
that he were dead.
* *
The tale about Jessie Brown and “Dinna
ye hear the Slogan ?” at the Relief of Lucknow,
was invented by a Parisian lady who wrote sensa-
tional news-letters, and it was copied into the
Times, and other English papers. All the people
who were in Lucknow agree that it is a complete
fabrication, and so goes by the board another
Mock Pearl of History. But The Bulletin
wagers that it won’t disappear from the History
Books. Every schoolboy will know it in 19110.
* * *
A Queensland Divisional Board is accused
of having entered t‘4o-worth qQ banquet and
liquor us “ labour and material.” This is a very-
old inspiration in a new disguise. For instance,
“postages and sundries” in a balance-sheet is
generally a mild way of alluding to the sum which
vanished mysteriously along with the good young
clerk who taught Sunday-school and wore a smile
like a little moral hymn; and “ neces ary legal
expenses ” is a smothered hint to the effect that a
dread ully smart man in the office found out how
the accounts were faked, and had to be bought oil
with £250 cash and a saloon passage to England.
“Repairs to plant” signifies, as a rule, that the
horse the cashier backed didn’t win, and that that
officer is in a state approaching to distraction ; and
“Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits” is the
sum that the liquidator won’t be able to find any-
where when he comes to wind up the concern.
Also—and most important of all-“ Unpaid
(Capital ” is a mild way of referring to the amount
which the shareholders won’t pay on any account—
not if the whole board has to blaze in Tophet for.
want of it. The author of this paragraph devoted
his early life to commercial pursuits, and speaks
from experience. He generally appeared in the
balance-sheet himself as “ Horse-hire.”
* * *
Tu a northern police court last week a
witness said he wasn’t a detective but a member
of a private agency, and the examining lawyer
suggested that the difference between an alligator
and a crocodile wasn’t a matter of much public
interest. Still there is a difference. The alligator
draws a salarv and never finds out anything, while
the crocodile,' being a reptile on piece-work, has to
find out things that never happened to keep him-
self alive.
# * *
The custom of holding a dress-rehearsal
wedding upon the evening preceding the fatal day
has made its appearance in America. Everybody
engaged for a part in the real show is expected tc
turn up at the dress rehearsal. A stage-manager
is appointed, and he fixes the cues for the bride’s
emotion, and arranges all the business of family
embraces. He even makes the bridesmaids prac-
tise a beautiful, modest blush at that portion of
the solemn service where blushes ought to come in.
A mock parson reads the service and coaches up
the happy pair in a mellifluous rendering of “1
will.” It is a good idea altogether. Very soon
we shall get to dress-rehearsals for funerals, over
an imitation grave in the back-yard.
# * *
The attendance at Kintore’s Queen’s Birth-
day levee was beautifully small. As the Adelaide
people much prefer going to see the races the levee
TO THE HEBE FAIR.
AFTER TOM HOOD.
To the Hebe fair
Sing a song of Marrson,
Never was a prayer
Said by finer parson ;
Barmaids never shall
Heed their critics snarly,
While they have a pal
In the sainted Charley.
Fill the bumper fair.
Drink to brother Marrson,
Shake your golden hair
At the gentle pardon.
Free from taint of sin
Is the powdered beauty :
Selling goes of gin
As a Christian duty.
Though a vulgar clod
Make rude observation, 1 -
She is serving God
In her own vocation.
Wrongly ’tis supposed
By the simple stranger,
Hebe is exposed
To a lot of danger.
You can bet your life
Ne’er a girl is chaster.
Till she is a wife
No man has embraced her.
Charley’s pretty friends
Doubtless him admire, as
He comes in and spends
Threepences in Shiraz;
Through the fumes of wine
(Which can never hurt you)
Hebe seems divine
In her maiden virtue.
Dames of higher ton,
Showing shoulders nudely,
Often carry on
Just a little lewdly :
Barmaids’ innocence
Is their special glory,
They on no pretence
Tell a spicy story.
Social purists and
Rechabites, we’re thinking,
At the bar should stand
Ruddy liquor drinking;
Nectar from above
Is the stuff to nerve ’em,
As they fall in love
With the girls who serve ’em.
To the Hebe fair
Sing a song of Marrson,
Never was a prayer
Said by finer parson


The
Marvellous
18s. 6d.
OPTIMUS
WATCHES
The Best, Cheapest and .Most Accurate Timekeepers
ever produced.
«XS Sots Sks 1
cteax*”*" “■*“ ~
G'lt moNements, jewolhsi in six holes, keyless fit) turns
to wind), enamel dials, crystal faces, well made splendidlv
fimshecl nicke! cases that will wear - fn lSt
StttS'KSit 80,116 little watches - a,, ‘ <l
Twelve months' guarantee forwarded with every one
‘!T “■ <'”• tdK'im,
n I (,C( ■' l f not. 111 every way satisfactory after
a week money willingly refunded. ° mcr
Only to lie obtained from
frost & shipham
oPKCTACLK MARKUS, OPTICIANS & ELECTRICIANS
474 & 587 Goorgo Street. Sydney.
If asked to drink, call for Wolfe’s Schnapps,
Message found written on a cross-beam
m the hold of R.M.S. Jumna, where Townsville
c arro had been stowed on the outward voyage —-
Men of 1 owns ville—The stevedores of London
.ue thankful for the contribution sent to the strike
land. 5 '
An exhilarating cordial is Wolfe’s Schnapps.
Jos. Symes, who is a sturdy friend of Law
and Order roots out, in his Liberator, that
somebody belonging to the Anarchist Club is
alleged to have mizzled with 401 b of sugar. A
of this type in Melbourne, ten years
was equally unlucky. Two of its' members
were said to have liquored up £2O subscribed for a
piano and the Society became absorbed in the
general population.
Wolfe’s Schnapps—look for £1 orders.
FRKETRADK oh protection.
Some vote Protection, some Ereetrade,
As best lor this young country’s weal.
Rut ask the youth or blushing maid,
And each will answer— Pemell’s Meal !
As best, because it has been tried.
There’s nothing half so good beside.
His Golden Meal is what I mean,
’Tis good and pure and cheap, I wean.
Over 2B Pounds Gain in Ten Weeks
Experience of a Prominent Citizen.
The California Society fob the )
Suppression of Vick,
San Francisco, July 7th, 188 C.)
I took a severe eold upon
my ehest and lungs and did
not give It proper attention;
it developed into bronchitis,
and in the fall of the same
year I was threatened with
consumption. Physicians or-
dered me to a more congeni-
al climate, and I came to San
Francisco. Soon after my
arrival I commenced taking
Scott’s Emulsion of Cod Liver
Oil with Hypophosphites reg-
ularly three times a day. In
ten weeks my avoirdupois
"went from IBS to 180 pounds
and over; the cough mean-
time ceased, c. r. bennett.
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS.
j|o BE R T SON’S \\ r ll IS KY.
ó
(JIVKN AWAY I\ THE COLONIES
as follows:
10 of A 5 cacti, Ur. £l2, ami 70 XI,
J’iunjJilefs from tl.c Agwit* ALLT & CO., x.i mitrata , CHARLOTTE PLACE.
PNEY
nn/hmf, nC f' I,as Y aduiil,y thinned down to almost
not lung of recent years.
< * * *
Charity begins at home. Why not abolish
Welhonrnl'" : systl,1 ‘ 1 on reporting staffs of certain
... , (! l’ :l l H! rs- fourteen hours a day and
iystom, en 1U HoUse is sittin « is the present
• * *
. Y 18 reported that the Melbourne Herald
Win. Will tl> )H . t:l Yn over by a strong syndicate,
at I I ai " the services of the gifted Winter
u. e-dl fl k ° Y , , mj ‘ ll ? IOU8 effort to exhaust the
ll«v n piil of the Standard without undue
Y;lf y - however, as Baronet Clarke is vaguely
undeistood to have a finger in the latter pie, there
seems a big show of the Standard hanging on
nntd the various theatrical managers
increase their advertisements to five columns each
* * *
A Yankee damsel discourses on men who
Bturo i —•
V'r™ n , mny (li,ferent "ays of doing it. One set of
men always stare over the tops of their papers slyly sur
reptltiously, rather coyly. Others fold ihe laulerscUH,,
aUh r ude' d anYY the 'Y an rf’ Ket into a comfortable
’ lill 8 al : e . steadily, remorselessly, immoval.lv,
2 a ’i ’ a<illlll| ogly. They will not move their eyes
fiom the admired object fora half-hour, and durin<> that
time they seem quite contented and happy others
which B 'undo .Vl‘ ' ’ look . all ‘° und the charmer in a circle,
, narrowing, finally conies to a termination
htm Y fhi . look a .‘ the advertisements aho\ e her
Jiead, at the carpet beneath her feet, at the handle of her
parasol, at the hand which holds it, at her entf her
sleeve, her ear, her hair, her bangs, and t en of
course suddenly, straight into her ’eyes. This is
said to be the most disconcerting variety. The
same staring goes on everywhere—in the theatre in
all forms of public conveyances, on ferry-boats ’ on
popular promenades, at church, every where where’ men
and women congregate in crowds. Some women’s lives
aie oppressed by it. They rarely go out alone. Others
who are daring, fearless spirits, war with it and strive to
turn the tables on their tormentors. One girl, I remem-
.Y'Y: ? Te* not he ‘P her red cheeks and big eyes told
me she had discovered a way of stopping it. She-said;
I tfo down in the trams often in the morning, and then
you know the cars are full of men. Four or five of them
Bitting opposite, begin their usual sport. I sit and look
unconscious, and let my eyes roam about in a vacant sort
of way. Piesently they fall on the five pairs of feet
opposite. I gaze at them-at first absently then
eet SU aT n if e ’ i e " m . 1 stare at’those
xeet as if I was petrified with surprise Mv
eyes grow bigger and bigger. I begin to glare
like one who is paralysed with awe and horror I
never raise my eyes or move them, hut just stare on as
♦wTh have )een starin " at me . but I make it appear
that I have never in my whole existence seen such mon-
fYTi e , et an<l t |,at 1 a, H fascinated by them. Soon all
the feet begin to move. Some are tucked under the seat
The.! CUr '. e<l r ° and each some are crossed.’
Then the men begin to move as if they are uneasy. They
sit sideways, they sigh loudly, they pull up their eoat-
ool’ars .> they clear their throats, they look at the handles
of their canes, they glance over their knees at the floor
as if they were hunting for something. As soon as thev
heann this, the day is mine. I calmly withdraw my eves
and sweeping them with a glance of calm and placid in-
d.fference, I turn away my head and they trouble me no
* * #
Says the Medical Times and Register ;
Evidences of the dangers -of hypnotism accumulate more
rapidly than the proofs of its value. The capability of
being hypnotized is a misfortune ; the habit enhances the
instability of the nervous system, which it evidences The
control thus exerted by one mind over another can only
exceptionally be employed for good. More frequently, as
there i!5 {foo.l reason to believe, deception, rascality and
libertinismare apt here to find their opportunity,’ and
weakness its desired excuse for yielding. Out of this we
see in the future suits innumerable for violations of the
property and the person of patients; suits, whose dan-
gerous character the profession will not be lomr in
appreciating, if the practice of hypnotism becomes
general, and juries becomes convinced of its reality.
What sinister reputations have been built up by
ceitam Australian practitioners who have habitu-
ally resorted to mesmerism ! They are almost
classed with the chloroforming dentist, Bertrand '
* * #
Bright red gloves with grey gowns are the
very latest fashion. Modjeska remarks : “ Red
worn below the face deadens the complexion, worn
above the face, heightens the complexion. If
therefore, a w’onv-n wishes to subdue the colour in
the cheeks she should wear a red gown or plent'
of red ribbons about bet throat; on the other
hand, if she wishes to give her face a certain
touch of colour, let her wear a red hat or red
flowers in her hair.”
Lord Herschell, ex-Lord Chancellor, made
a splendid onslaught in the House of Lords a few
weeksago on the abominable inequality of judges’
sentences. Ihe proinir system, of course is the
American, where the jury practically determine
the length of sentence. * '
Lord Bramwell n j
would not hav. Hnr.l . that . God
human soul if lb- didn’t , ? artb 'k un fif«r •» the
riXJ,c l lvA / " IS, J t 0 ‘‘stabbsh the
rights o 1 nvate Property, and, asks his Lord-
ship Is not God stronger than the landlord’
Gould not 1 fe have made itotherwise ? To which a
irnaT P a P! ,ra( kk s : *’ Is not Gcxl stronger than
Bill Sikes, the burglar?”
The good opinion of the public, J n reeard to
Ayer’s Cherrv Pec tnr d , , ,
men kwver? ~ hi ’ , C,, " h, m :' d clt ’ r Ky-
P Ul) k< speakers, and actors. All
say it is the beat remedy for affections of the
throat and lungs.
Horsfnrri’a -u .
s Acul Phosphate
• iakes delicious lemonade.
A teaspoonful added to a glass of hot or cold
water, anil sweetemxl to the taste, will lie found
rem slung and invigorating.
By fi uewly-iuvented machine now in
operation one girl is able to sew on 3000 buttons
; 11 y, instead of 500 by band. Her pay is no
uglier, her hours no shower, although her useful-
ess is sextupled. Twas ever thus; invention
toes not lighten the labour of the toiler, nor in-
orease Ins comfort; it only increases the luxuries
labour ln ° nopollBt and lessens the demand for
“ George Corner, shoemaker, of Jewin-
street, London, died 29th March. Australian
secularists m Sydney will remember him as a
pioneer ui the cause i 2 years ago. On returning
mgland he joined the National Secular
Society, and died as he lived, firm in his hope for
! his bod y to be cremated,
that without religious performance; and 1
witnessed the due regard paid to his wishes at
Woking. —-National Hki-'orjiku.
Messrs. Charles Morley, of the P M
and William Senior, of the London
A ®"' s ,( f ?™ er, y head of Queensland Han-
N- g iv( ' n hy the London
. a l Liberal Club to Gladstone, and were re-
quested to remain in an anteroom till the speeehi-
tying commenced. Both at once left the club,
? ir aC A ° U Y as Smugly upheld by all the
8.. V S ‘ :l banf l«ot given in Adda de to
few y ( ' :UH ago, the reporters were
.anularly treated, but they pocketed the insult
and meekly came in when they were sent for; and
tlieir proprietors ” who were dining, actually
JwtogS. a,KI “ 1Imi “ l *• “»»
W hen Bradlaugh denounced Cunningham
Graham in the Commons “as a dangerous per-
nrn’fif » e a ' ve : pt over the “ narrow margin of
? ‘ ■ appertaining to the poor capitalist, and
pathetically inquired what would become of the
i ’I 1 . Lancashire cotton factories if an
lJ i ur , laboui ; di W was legalised. The Labour
ellirf T 81 °'i V - t ! at the y earJ y dividends of the
ch ef Lancashire firms run from 8J to 15 per cent.
he capitalist s margin of profit, however, matters
THE ONE HE TUCKED UP.
HE ( t o waitress): “I’LL HAVE BOILED FOWL ALSO; AND PLEASE BRING
ME THE LEG HE USED TO TUCK UP, NOT THE ONE HE SO
LONG ROOSTED ON.”
little ; he is not in any way essential to production,
while the worker is, and when consumer and
producer fully recognise that the capitalist is re-
sponsible for high prices on one side and low
wages on the other, they will be drawn so closely
together that there will be no standing room for
middleman and monopolist.
Mrs. Cruger, of San Francisco, says a local
paper, is not only the type accentuated of American
beauty, but has a reputation for the sharpest and
quickest wit, and a self-possession that never
deserts her. A very swagger man about town
called on this lady one afternoon in the past winter,
and sent up Ins card by the trim French maid,
who possessed the nameless charm of her race. In
the interval before Madame appeared, he employed
his time in making violent love to the aforesaid
maid, and when the lady of the house descended
in noiseless slippers, a sufficiently electrical picture
greeted her astonished eyes. Without a moment’s
hesitation, without a glance in the direction of the
offending visitor, she remarked : “Marie, how
often must I tell you to receive your friends in
the kitchen?” and turned upstairs, leaving the
humiliated man in a social eclipse from which ho
has not escaped.
Dear Bulletin, --You stated the other day
that Mount and Morris, who were sentenced by
Chief Justice Stawell to 15 years’ “transporta-
tion” for “ black-birding ■’ got clear off when
liberated on a writ of habeas corpus. You are not
strictly accurate. I was in court on the occasion
when Justices Barry and Fellows delivered judg-
ment. Mount and Morris, though in prison dress,
were at once turned out of the dock when the
judgment was concluded, but a big posse of police
weie lying perdu in Russell-street barracks, and
when the ex-convicts got out into Russell-street
they were surrounded, re-arrested, and lodged in
the Swanston-street lockup. They were brought
before the City Court next day “as convicts
illegally at large,” but the charge was absurd arid
they were then finally set free. Some years after-
wards they were heard of in America.—-J. L. F.
Balaclava Bunkum.
“Bill” Charges tho Light Brigade.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
Which I rise to put the motion that we’ve had
enough palaver
About them gallant ’eroe chaps as charged at
Balliclaver;
For I notice as the papers talks a lot o’ bloomin’
guyver
Each time the death is noticed of a Light Bergade
survivor.
An’ if he dies of ’linger, which I see as ’ow as one
done—
Well, coves as isn’t sodgers orfen does the same in
London ;
And wimmin, too. an’ children has to work out
their salvations
By a'-freessiiT on a doorstep for the want o’ proper
rations.
Now, /ain’t struck on sodgers, for I got the cool
effront’ry
To argy that they ain’t no sort o’ credit to a
country,
And as for bein’ ’eroes when their biz they is
pu recoin’-
Why, I guess they ain't responsible for ’arf wot
they is doin’.
1 know as this is treason ’gin the milertary forces,
An’ doesn’t suit them horticers as gallivants on
’orses.
But, much the same as convicts is the slaveys of
■ their warders,
These ’eroes gets no show to dodge obeyin’of their
borders.
There’s lots o’ rightdown wrong ’uns as is nobbled
for the army.
And many a country bumpkin takes t<ie shillin’
’cos he's barmy;
Them kings they looks on privates as their private
goods and chattels,
Who don't know any better than to go a fightin’
battles.
It’s mostly when a Britun has ’is fortunes down at
zero
1 - tO " S ISself in scarbt an ’ becomes a gallant
Though I’ve ’eerd of forrin countries, where blokes
as does the killin’
Is forced to join the army when they’re ’orribly
unwillm. J
It doesn’t make no difference, though some volun-
teers in herror,
And others ’as to go acos’ the hemperor’s a terror ■
Iliey re all the tools o’ Tories, and the cause o’
labour suffers
Along o’ them there ’eroes, which I calls ’em sillv
cl utters. *
The world in my erpiniqn, won't bo ’arf so full
o trouble
When poor men finds the sense to prick the
nulertary bubble, 1
Which toffs’ave been a blow in’since before the
time o’ Moses,
While parsons sez “Berlovid, yer must fight as
hod disposes.
I don’t deny as bravery is orfen soon in battle
Stati '" , “ When th »
But courage on the field don’t pervent the Lord
from frownin,
And d J rownS er 866 “ ’ er ° ® aVe a P art y wot was
An’ some as faces fire, when for “glory ” thov i«
yearnin’ • y 1
W ° a-liundn’ [° Snat ° h a baby from a cottage all
Th °ffr h moddi PerS alWayS giv6S US noble warriors
1 i„
I vc read them 1 i nen in Tennyson about the bra\o
Bix Hundred,
And W they charged the R- oshans while the
oloomin cannons thundered ;
1 wasn’t bur,stud up with hadineration when I
read it,
For I knew they’d rot to charge ’em, howsoever
they might dread it.
do the chance of Uooshan bullets they wos not so
very pars ha),
Lut preferred it to the certainty o’ dying by court-
marshal,
And hying some affection for old I [ingland, ’ome.
and booty,
Them coves ’as couldn’t clp it went an’ waded in,
lor dooty.
An'most of’em fell dead, as they’d a-doneif they’d
revolted ;
n Caidigan, he led ’em ’cos his fiery charger
boltec, J
An’ talkin’ of the ’orsos, yer can bet they was
agivem’
That an hanimal ’as hinstincts far above a human
bein’.
I rise to put the motion as we’ve had enough
palaver
About them gallant ’ernes of the charge at Balli-
claver ;
T ( '- vV| m>t a-charged at all if they’d been si nsible
or plucky,
And them wot wasn’t murdered I regards as jolly
lucky. J
In spite of that there poim wot old Tennyson ’as
written,
The war in the Crimeer was a dam disgrace to
Bn tun,
And a curse to all the people wot Was toil’n’ on an’
spumin’—
\\ Inch battles is and shall be, as they was in the
beginnin.
The men wot dig an’ mine an’ work away for
onest wages,
An never gets their praises sung in no historic
pages,
Are the kind o’ gallant fellers as is useful to their
neighber.
An’ serves their country better than by hackin’
with a saber.
The wretched sewin’ gals, with tired feet upon the
t reddles,
Is always facin’ death, and yet they never get no
meddles,
An’ life is one long battle with some millions I
could menshun,
Whose service ain’t rewarded with no “bob” a
day for penshun.
1 heir’s but to do an’die,” remarks the noit of
tlie sodgers.
It’s the want of hany work wot settles lots o’
ungry codgers ;
ilit\ don tgo kill in Rooshans, an’ bring misery
an rum, J
But they goes an’ kills theirselves acos’ there isn’t
nothin dour.
I do object to horficers a-g. it in’ fat as butter
W bile them wot makes the - glory ” ’as a “ bob ”
a day to flutter ;
But, anywheres in II ingland yer can spot a flawed
starver "
Whi’as done a lot more 'Wly than them troops
at isaliielaver.
EEMUND FISHER.


Med. foal.
SN
■a
EVERY HOUSEHOLD-especially where
there are yo«ung cnildren—should be provided
with Ayer’s Cherry Pectoral, the prompt use of
which has saved innumerable lives. Its effect
is immediate and certain. It stops coughing, pro-
motes expectoration, and soothes the irritated
membrane. The most famous and successful
Cough-Cure
In the world, it has no equal as a remedy for
asthma, bronchitis, inflamed tonsils, loss of
voice, whooping-cough, croup, and the sudden
pulmonary complaints to which children are
liable. Taken in the early stages of consump-
tion, it often cures that disease and always
checks its progress; and even at a later period
in the malady, it relieves the distressing cough
and induces needful repose. A safe, palatable,
and economical medicine, Ayer’s Cherry Pecto-
ral should be always at hand in case of an un»
foreseen and sudden emergency.
Ayer’s Cherry Pectoral,
PREPARED BY
Dr. J. C. AYER & CO., Lowell, Mass., U. S. A.
Sold by Druggists and Medicine Vendors.
o
WHO IS
WEAK
N
Nervous & Debilitated
Who in his youth has trifled away his vigour of body,
mind, and manhood, should consult PROFESSOR
CARL STINEWAY, the Eminent Specialist,
in diseases of the Genito-Urinary Organs, who is
still treating with the greatest skill and success all
Private, Nervous and Chronic Diseases.
Professor STINEWAY’S success, which has
become so firmly established throughout Australasia,
is based upon the facts : —ist. That every case treated,
even in its most remote effects, is specially studied,
thus starting aright. 2nd. The Medicines used are
exactly adapted to suit the case, and are compounded
from the purest, freshest, and refined ingredients,
thus promptly producing results without overdosing
or injury.
I seek cases where all else has failed.
Young and middle-aged men and others , who
suffer from Nervous and Physical Debility,
Exhausted Vitality, Premature Decline, etc.,
can recover the same degree of health, strength,
and energy experienced in former years, by
consulting (in person or by letter, which is
free), Professor STINE WAY, who has re-
stored thousands of sufferers to vigorous man-
hood after all other treatment had failed. It
makes no difference what you have taken, or
who has failed to cure you. Cases that I accept
for treatment are quickly and permanently
cured,
DO ANY OF THE FOLLOWING SYMPTOMS.
OR CLASS OF SYMPTOMS MEET YOUR
DISEASED CONDITION :-Are you a sufferer
from bad health in any of its many forms, consequent
on a lingering Nervous, Chronic, or Functional
Disease ? Do you feel nervous, debilitated, fretful,
timid, and lack the power of will and action ?
Are you subject to loss of memory ; have spells of
fainting ; fullness of blood in the head ; feel listless,
moping, unfit for business or pleasure, and subject to
fits of melancholy? Are your kidneys, stomach,
urinary organs, liver, or blood in a disordered con-
dition ? Do you suffer from Rheumatism, Neuralgia,
or other aches and pains ? Are you timid, nervous,
and forgetful with your mind continually dwelling on
the subject ? Have you lost confidence in yourself,
and energy for business pursuits ? Are you subject
to restless nights, broken sleep, dreams, palpitation
of the heart, bashfulness, confusion of ideas, aversion
to society, dizziness in the head, dimness of sight,
pimples on the face and back, and other desponding
symptoms ? If you are afflicted, why further neglect
your health or future happiness, when by a single con-
sultation (which costs nothing) you can be placed on
the way to health, strength, and vigour?
All correspondence held sacred. A speedy
and perfect life cure is guaranteed in all cases
I undertake, where doubt exists the sufferer is
f rankly informed.
Persons living at a distance who desire
treatment without delay can, by forwarding a
full description of their case and fi, receive
by return of post the medicines required.
Do not despair, even though all others have
failed in your case. No matter what your
complaint may be, call or write—l will cure
you. If you are ill, do not delay ! My vast
experience enables me to guarantee a positive
cure in all cases undertaken. CONSUL-
TA TIONS FREE. Medicines sent secure
from observation to any part of Australasia.
“ From Bondage to Freedom,” my
latest work on Private, Nervous and
Chronic Diseases, should be read by
every man; nearly one hundred
pages. By post, two stamps.
A written guarantee given in all
cases undertaken, and no promises
made that age, integrity, and long
experience do not justify.
Send for treatise “ From Bondage
to Freedom.”
Address; Professor CARL STIHEWAY,
23 Elizabeth St., Sydney, H.S.W.
Offices and Parlors —Rooms 2,3, 4 dr* 5.
Consulting Room —6.
Laboratory & Drug Warehouse —
Hunter Street.
Something KTew.
YOUR NAME neatly printed on Forty (40) Beautiful
Embossed VISITING CARDS, comprising Floral
Landscape, Sea View, Bird, &c. No two alike. ALL
FOR ONE SHILLING in Stamps, postage paid. Agents
wanted. Samples free. Address-
Austral Card and Novelty to,.
U Hcstsr Stssst, SYDNEY.
Medical.
mumn oiitmest.
By Royal Letters Patent.
The Most Useful Ointment in the World,
Bar None.
PREMIER OINTMENT is the SOUTHERN
HEMISPHERE. But, as many new arrivals
have lately made New South Wales their home, it
may be as well to let them know that there is such
an article as JOSEPHSON’S OINTMENT purely
theproductionof thecolony, composed of wild plants
indigenous to the country and nowhere else, the
principal of which is the EUCALYPTUS, now
so famed thoroughout the world.
Josephson’s Ointment is purely vegetable, and
Guaranteed Free from all Poisonous
Qualities. No Artificial Colouring, as the
Green colour is extracted from the pure green
plants, which defy imitation.
WHO SHOULD SUFFER FROM PILES,
when one application will relieve you ?
Read this letter and Try for Yourselves
Messrs. E. Row and Co.
Dear Sirs, —I have tried your Josephson’s Oint-
ment for Piles, and have found much relief from
using it. You are at liberty to use this if you feel
disposed.
I remain, yours, etc.,
L. P. SOLOMONS, Herald Office.
STUDY HEALTH BY TAKING ROW’S
STEANB’S BITTERS.
The great demand throughout the colony for
these pure Bitters shows they are superior to all
others and*eq nailed by none.
Facts Speak Louder than Words.
Read this sworn testimony from a well-known
citizen: —
Statutory Declaration.
“I, George Hewett, do hereby solemly and
sincerely declare as follows ;
“That I feel it a duty I owe to the public to
state that I have been suffering for many years
from weakness of the stomach, so called INDI-
GESTION or DYSPEPSIA, and have been cured
by my taking two or three glasses of ROW’S
STEANE’S BITTERS a day in a little water, and
I hope others suffering from the same complaint
will be as speedily cured.
“(Signed) G. HEWETT,
“ 215 Pitt-street.
Row’s Steane’s Wine
Is a safe and sure stimulant for the female sex or
children, for it raises and strengthens depressed
systems without producing a temporary excite-
ment to be followed by greater depression.
Persons suffering from loss of appetite and
general depression of spirits cannot do better than
take
ROW’S STEANE’S WINE.
It cannot harm you, but must do good to all
delicate persons. Young Ladies can take this
when suffering from general debility. It’s only a
pure tonic. Try it.
Teetotallers will find this newly-invented
TONIC answer all the purposes of a stimulant
without its intoxicating quality. It will satisfy
the cravings of nature and create a desire for food
instead of drink. As an anti-febrile is unsur-
passed.
ROW’S
DANDELION
BITTERS.
We recommed these BITTERS to be taken
two or three times a day; a wineglassful for an
adult, smaller quantity for children.
For General Debility, Dyspepsia, Rheumatism,
and Cutaneous Affections.
The action of dandelion, more especially upon
the liver and kidneys, in more reliable for remov-
ing all impure secretions than any other medicinal
plant known.
Persons suffering from Skin diseases will find
these Bitters invaluable.
DIRECTIONS FOR USE.
One wineglass two or three times a day after
meals diluted with same quantity of water. For
young people about half the quantity twice a day.
They Purify the Blood and Liver.
See what a Medical Gentleman says
about them.
Messrs. E. Row and Co.
With thanks for forwarding me a bottle of your
Row’s Dandelion Bitters, and consider them most
excellent, and superior to many others that I have
previously tried. Yours faithfully, HENRY
CHARLES CURTIS, M.R.C.S., England.
Port Adelade, October 30, 1886.
Read an expression of thankfulness received
from the undersigned :
“I have for many years been obliged to take
medicines of different kinds for affections of the
liver, indigestion, pain in the chest, general de-
bility, feeling of nervousness, weariness, great
depression of spirits, and so on, but all without
producing any beneficial effect, till at last, being
recommended to try ROW’S DANDELION
BITTERS, which, happily, I find has produced
an unexpected and wonderful effect and change
in my system, and has removed from my mind
the horrible depressed feeling and former con-
dition of bodily ailment I have so unhappily ex-
perienced for so many years.
“ I am glad of the opportunity to make known
the excellent qualities of ROW’S DANDELION
BITTERS, that those who are afflcted as 1 have
been may take advantage of them.
“ I remain, dear sirs,
“Respectfully yours,
“ MARY TERRILL,
“ Carlisle Cottage, Leichhardt.
“ Messrs. Ed. Row and Company, Sydney.”
————COS
Hotel-keepers all keep Row’s Assorted Bitters
CONTAINING
ROW’S STEANE’S BITTERS.
ROW’S YOU’LL DO BITTERS.
ROW’S QUININE BITTERS.
ROW’S ORIENTAL BITTERS.
ROW’S DANDELION BITTERS.
BARON BERZELIUS BUCHU BITTERS.
ROW’S ASSORTED WINES.
SOIiK Propriktorb,
EDWARD ROW & CO.,
48. 46, 47 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
Amusements.
JJ* ER MAJ E S T Y’S THEATRE.
Lessee and Manager .... Mr. Geo, Rignold.
Doors open at 7 ; commencing 8. Carriages at 10.80.
LAST TWO NIGHTS! LAST TWO NIGHTS!
Mr. WILLIAM RIGNOLD
as Jaques, in
The Two Orphans.
Box Office at Theatre from 10 to 5. Prices as usual.
J. P. Macdonald, Acting-Manager.
QRITERION THEATRE.
Under the Management of Messrs. Brough and Boucicault.
By arrangement with Messrs. MACMAHON.
A SENSATIONAL SUCCESS.
LAST NIGHTS! LAST NIGHTS!
of the Celebrated Comedian,
JOHN F. SHERIDAN,
The Original
WIDOW O’BRIEN,
in the Puniest Comedy of Modern Times,
“ Fnn. on tlxe Bristol,”
supported by the 35 Members of the New
English Musical Comedy Co
Prices—ss, 3s, 2s and Is. Box Plan at Nicholson’s.
AQUARIUM.
The Most Popular
PICNIC and PLEASURE GROUNDS of AUSTRALIA.
The Famous Switchback Railway, conveying
Passengers from Cliff to Cliff daily.
Splendid Asphalt Open-Air Skating-Rink Free to Visitors.
Open Daily from 10 a.m to 10 p.m.
Admission, Is.; Children, 6d. Trams to Gate —Fare, 4d
tnHEATRE ROYAL,
A ROCKHAMPTON, QUEENSLAND.
Seating Accommodation :
f 200, Dress Circle.
-! 200, Stalls.
[4OO, Pit.
Stage, 45 x5O feet. Scenery and Fittings com-
plete, and every convenience. Sliding Roof for
ventilation.
W. G. CAFORN Ss CO., Lessees.
For Terms and Dates, apply
SABER BROTHERS,
Rockhampton.
Theatre royal-
Lessee Mr. S. Lazar.
Sub Lessees, Messrs. Williamson, Garner and Musgrove.
Treasurer ... ... Mr. Geo. L. Goodman.
LAST TWO NIGHTS ! LAST TWO NIGHTS !
and Farewell Performances of
Mrs. POTTER and Mr. BELLEW,
Thursday, “LA TOSCA.” Friday, “CAMILLE.
ADMISSION —ss., Bs. and ONE SHILLING.
JJARLINGHURST SKATING RINK.
SKATING
TO-DAY
SKATING
TO-NIGHT
SKATING
TO-DAY
SKATING
TO-NIGHT
SKATING
TO-DAY
SKATING
TO-NIGHT
SKATING
TO-DAY
SKATING
TO-NIGHT
SKATING
TO-DAY
SKATING
TO-NIGHT
SKATING
THE LARGEST AND BEST
IN THE WORLD.
Remember! Remember!
Seven Laps to the Mile.
THE SPLENDID FLOOR
PRONOUNCED
PERFECT!
THREE SESSIONS
TO-DAY.
Morning, 10 to 12. Ad.,6d. Skates
Free. Afternoon, 2.30 to 5.
Admission; Gents, Is; Ladies, 6d.
Skates, Od.
Evening, 7.30 till 10.16.
Admission, Is. Skates, Is.
Season Tickets:
Gents, 60s. Ladies, 40s.
SKATING
TO-DAY
SKATING
TO-NIGHT
SKATING
TO-DAY
SKATING
TO-NIGHT
SKATING
TO-DAY
SKATING
TO-NIGHT
SKATING
TO-DAY
SKATING
TO-NIGHT
SKATING
TO-DAY
SKATING
TO-NIGHT
SKATING
Theatrical
HOSIERY.
SILK
COTTON
WOOL
TIGHTS, SHIRTS,
AND
OPERA HOSE,
PADS, ANIMAL DRESSES, ETC.
SPECIALITIES MADE TO ORDER.
Gilt Trimmings, Boots, Stage Fabrics.
jgf” Manufacturers to all leading London and Provincial
Theatres.
AUSTRALIAN AGENTS WANTED.
B. BURKTEX & 00.,
42 King Street, Covent Garden, London.
MR. JAMES R. PAGE, in England as
Downey Bleater in “Now-a-Days.”
Permanent address : 49 Myddleton-street, Lon-
don, E.C.
J€. HJDOWICI >i SON, Manufacturers and ImJ
, porters of Superior Oak-Tanned Leather Belting,
and every description of Leather Goods for Mining and
Engineering purposes.
ò
All Goods bearing the above Trade Mark are warranted
to give entire satisfaction, or may be returned at the
Makers’ expense. The Pioneer Oak-tanned Leather
Belting is used exclusively by the N.S.W. Government.
Over 200.000 running in Australia. The cheapest and
best Belting in the world. Send for prices and catalogues
162 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
WILLIAM CAE GILL,
Photographic Stooh Importer,
26 MARKET STREET,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
and COMPANY, LIMITED.
Notice is hereby given, that a DIVIDEND (the
fourth) at the rate of 10 per centum per annum on
the share capital of the company has been DE-
CLARED, due and payable on and from Monday,
the 2nd June, 1890, at the registered office of the
company, 468 Collins-street, Melbourne,
By order of the board,
' A. O. HOLBROOK. Secretary
N
Furniture, &c,
EWTOK AND LAMB.
FURNITURE and PIANOFORTE
WAREHOUSEMEN,
CABINETMAKERS, UPHOLSTERERS
AND
BEDDING MANUFACTURERS.
SHOW BOOMS AND MANUFAOTOKY:
SPRING AND O’CONNELL STREETS.
Full suites for dining-room—side-
board, DINNER WAGGON, TABLE,
OVERMANTEL, COUCH, EASY CHAIRS,
CARVING CHAIRS and DINING CHAIRS,
all to match. Newton & Lamb.
JELF-ADJUSTTNG HAMMOCK CHAIR,
Patented.
This chair adjusts itself to any position, from
sitting to reclining and vice versa, at the will of
the occupant. It is simple yet ingenious in its
construction; works automatically. The above
cut represents only two of the numerous positions
that can be obtained instantly, and with but little
effort. It fits perfectly every part of the body,
and gives the occupant entire rest. We can now
supply portable suspension Stands to enable the
Chair to be used anywhere. Price, with Stand,
305.; without Stand, 255.
Packing in canvas, if required, 2s. 6d. extra.
D
RAWING-ROOM SUITES, Fashionably
Upholstered, at all prices.
OCCASIONAL TABLES in all Woods. Im-
mense variety of designs; also, elegantly
finished in Embroidery, Plush, &c, Newton and
Lamb.
TOW
ALNUT FALL
ft FRONT PEDESTAL
WRITING DESKS, of vari-
ous sizes, fitted with Shelves,
Moveable Pigeon-holes, Slid-
ing Trays, Stationery, Draw-
ers, revolving portable triple
Inkstand. Receptacles for
Stamps, and Ruler and Pen
Racks. Outside Drawers divided: into compart-
ments by movable partitions to admit of enlarging
or diminishing the space when required. Looks
automatically. One of the most useful, commo-
dious, and perfectly-planned articles for the Library
or Office yet produced. Admirably suited to the
necessities of professional and business men.
ALNUT FALL FRONT SINGLE
PEDESTAL WRITING DESK.—
Internal arrangements almost identical with the
description given above. Price only £l2 10s.
o
Drawing-room
CABINETS.
Earlt English
CHIPPENDALE DESIGNS.
Newton & Lamb.
ò
B ED STEADS, all size
Nickel-plated and Black and
Brass. Great variety.
Bedding . All descriptions
at lowest rates.
Newton & Lamb.
ò
SPRING MAT-
TRESSES (Woven
Wire), best make; also,
Spiral Spring.
Price, from 7s. Gd. each.
FURNITURE.—Pine Tables, from
j 10s. ; Dining Tables, from 20s. ; Kitchen
Dressers, from 225. 6d.; Washstands, from 12s. 6d.;
Chests of Drawers, from 405.; Wardrobes, from
80s.; Cedar Cheffoniers, from 30s. ; Cedar Side-
boards, from £3 35.; Clothes Horses, from
Bs. Gd. ; Writing Tables, with drawers, from 255.
o
Jc E CHESTS.
ALL SIZES.
PRICES LOW.
NEWTON and LAMB
o
E XC]
EXCELSIOR
UPRIGHT
IMPROVED
REFRIGERATORS
Various Sizes, from 455.
N K
ft on and lamb.
FURNITURE and PIANOFORTE
WAREHOUSEMEN,
CABINETMAKERS, UPHOLSTERERS
AND
BEDDING MANUFACTURERS.
Show Rooms and Manufactory •.
SPRING and O’CONNELL STREETS.


Log-chopping matches are now a favourite
pastime way-back Queensland. Down South log
rolling is the game.
Has been known for 100 years as tne best preserver
and beauiifler of the hair : it prevents it falling off or
turning grey,- strengthens weak hair, and eradicates
tourf and dandruff; it is unsurpassed as a brilliaiitine
tor the beard and moustaches, 1.. which it imparts a
»oft and silky appearance ; it is also sold in a golden'
colour fur fair-haired children.^
* soothing and emollient milk for the face, and is most
cooling to the skin in hot climates; it removes freckles,'
tan, sunburn, roughness and redness of the skin’
pimples, cutaneous eruptions, &c., and produces soft
fair skin, and a lovely delicate complexion.
kCWLAND’S ESSENCE CF TYRE, a harmless preparation
for dyeing red or grey hair a permanent brown or
black, a Ask chemists and druggists for Howland's
articles. .
€aut
Jk
The extraordinary reputation of Rowland’s Macassar
Oil, Kalydor and Odonto, induces some shopkeepers to
offer spurious imitations under the lure of being cheap;
the principle on which each is prepared is confined
solely to the knowledge of A. Rowland & Sons, of 4 2(J.
Hatton Garden, London, and therefore it is highly
necessary to buy no Macassar Oil, Kalydor or Odonto
except those made by them, and which bear their
name in red ink on the wrappers.
Dr.S
* l n y o ßK STREET. WYNYARD SQUARE, SYDNEY,
.O. _ Box 920. This eminent specialist is. a graduated
physician of Harwood University, U.S., registered by the
Governments of N.S.W. and N.Z., and has devoted 16
years to the special study of CHRONIC, NERVOUS SKIN
and SPECIAL diseases of MEN and WOMEN. All apply-
ing to him will receive his honest opinion of their com-
plaints. No experimenting ;no mercury used. A positive
cure guaranteed or forfeit £2OO. His vast experience
teJlslum that where there is no organic disease, and
nothing but an inorganic trouble, or, in other words a
conglomeration of symptoms producing a certain result
there is no reason Why it cannot be removed with the
proper remedies; therefore he guarantees. He claims to
be the most skilful and successful physician in N S W in
V.t-£?!of;V ,ar sporty, viz., theCHRONIOand SPECIAL
DISEASES of MEN and WOMEN. Examination and
advice free to all. Charges moderate. Office Hours-10
am. to 12 a.m.; 2 to 4 and 7 to 8 pm. Sunday, 10 to
11 a.m. only.
IKTe r 57-ons Debility.
Consult Dr. Speer in all cases of NERVOUSNESS through
indiscretion, for his many years of practice with this
dreadful disease enables him to remove all traces of it and
retorn the victims to full VIGOUR, HEALTH and
MANHOOD.
N-B- TWENTY SHILLINGS is sufficient to send for
remedies necessary for the cure of NERVOUS DEBILITY.
o, D ?‘ S i >E, i ß win forward, post free, at ss. per box, or
-is. tor nve boxes, the following celebrated pills;—
-AMERICAN “ VITAL ” PILLS, for nervous debility,
lost vitality, sexual weakness, errors, &c.
2.-AMERICAN “PRIVATE” PILLS, for discharges
contagious sores and blood diseases.
B.—“FEMALE” PILLS for irregularities and obstruc-
tions.
~,4 r 'U'M ERI, C AN STOMACH, LIVER, and KIDNEY I
PILLS, 2s. 6d. per box.
r 3/
o
Business Announcements.
OUNTRY STOREKEEPERS, ETC.
A. M. MARKS & CO.,
Furniture, Pianofortes, Glass, Earthenware,
CHINA, FANCY GOODS, ELECTRO-PLATE,
(TGAILS A TOBACCONISTS SIMHf lES
SOLE AGENTS FOR
Dawn Cigars and Salonica Turkish Cigarettes.
Special Novelties in all Lines for Christmas Trade,
Prices on Application to —
-A.. M. Maries & Co.,
Vickery’s Buildings, 74a Pitt Streeet, Sydney
Should write or call upon
Importers op—
Telephone, No. 919.
AND AT LONDON.
NOW ACKNOWLEDGED
TH E BEST
IN THE MARKET
WHISKY
M W.IC°
SOLD
EVERYWHERE
Sole Agents: JAMES MOIR&CO., 58 Margaret-st.. Sydney
Pans L Illustration gives instantaneous
photos, of files of. soldiers firing with ordinary
powder, and next with Lebel’s smokeless powder,
winch only emits a very thin vapour and confers
deadly advantages in aim-taking.
, licensed victualler writes
at the local victuallers’ association is practically
ni a dying condition. We shouldn’t wonder. No
nan can feel well who has sanguineous apoplexy,
f fl eC | Ilver and P ar chment kidney complicated
«jy tatty degeneration and the jim-jams.
The Sydney Evening News proprietary
threatens libel-proceedings against the Star for
damages for injury alleged to have been done by
certain comments made by the latter in re the
News’ report of a recent boat-race.
The noble fagade of the Public Library in
the city of magnificent stinks cannot be viewed in
its entirety, because of the conspicuous galvanised
iron and equally-tangible noisomeness of certain
structures of the sort which it is customary to
relegate to t’other side of buildings.
l Jn; ■'
.'"Mr
f r ,EIOHT 'I -.1-*Un9Th 4ti 10'j; 'Depth 2- V-V
TS fhd most complete and perfect instrument'evcr'oficved'of the'price.
X Seven Octaves, Fuji Trichord, Iron Frame, Patent Check Action, Brass
Pin Plate, Cross-strung, requiring only the minimum of tuning,tjr Tim tone’
is powerful, clear, brilliant and pure./ In very elegant Black and Gold or
Walnut Cases. “ 7“
This Piano is' introduced by W. 11. PALIXO & CO,, Pimrai, for the
purpose of meeting a long-felt demand for a good, reliable instrument at an
y ;i.-y price, and thereby giving to the head of almost every household an
opportunity of supplying liis homo with a lirst.-vlass Piano at a price heretofore
paid lot a' muck inferior instrument. 1 \ A
By the introduction of New Zealand fish to
Australia, the Fresh Food and Ice Co. of Sydney
~ * deserving of the best thanks of the community,
tlie scarcity of this wholesome article of diet in the
Jooal market having been long a sore-felt griev-
ance. it is intended to maintain a regular and
continuous supply, and a central depot for the con-
venience of the public is to be fitted out in King-
street, Sydney, in the most elaborate style. This
innovation will not affect N.S. Wales fishei ■men,
as the company are prepared to purchase all the
marketable fish offered them.
W life’s Schnapps—lt :s grand.
The Choicest Jewellery. Baums & Co., Kingxst. Arcade.
If your liver troubles you take Wolfe’s Schnapps.
At a N.S.W. aldermanic meeting a Mr.
Smith remarked to a very diligent reporter :
“Now don’t you go filling the Evening Howl
with stuff derogatory to me, or I’ll go for the lot
of you.” “ Mister Smith,” said that oracular
individual, while he kept pegging away at his
notes, “I am forbidden to say anything about
you, good, bad, or indifferent. Your name is
tabooed in the office of that great leader of public
opinion and enlightener of an intelligent com-
munity, and my private opinion is that the first
occasion your name will sully that stainless sheet
will be when it announces your untimely death at
the hands of justice.”
Mind you get Wolfe’s Schnapps.
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
Forty-Fifth Annual Report
OP THE
NEW YORK LIFE INSURANCE CO.
° ffioe: ' ’ ••• Nos. 346 and 348 BROADWAY, NEW YORK.
JANUARY 1, 1830.
Amount of Net Assets, January 1, 1889
EEVEIsTUE
.18,482,373 14 0
agcouitt.
Premiums r 0 ~ n -
fl 6 !® f e i e . rr “* premiums, J anuary i', 1889 18 13 n
Interest and Rents, &c.,
Less Interest accrued January 1, 1889.....’’.’.'.’.’’’’,''' ] ’°92 922 17 t
5,058,831 10 0
941,840 11 8
DISBTJBSEMEIsrT ACGOUITT
Taxes and re-insurances 1
Commissions (including advanced and' commuted commissions)' brokerages
agency expenses, physicians’ fees, &e. ° ’
Office and law expenses, salaries, advertising, printing,
6,000,672 1 3
24,483)045 15 3
1,286,439 8
1,207,618 11
52,003 10 8
972,356 10
177,112 17
3,695,530 17 2
n , , ASSETS.
Cash on deposit, on hand, and in transit
United States Bonds and other bonds and stocks (market value £12,435,893
Real Estate
Bonds and Mortgages first Uenon real' estate'(buildings thereon insured for
£2,962,902 19s. Sd., and the policies assigned to the Company as addi-
tional collateral security) 1 *
Temporary Loans (market value of securities heida'scoilateral£96i 226105' iV
tLoans on existing policies (the Reserve on these policies, included in Liahi
hties, amounts to over £411,522 12s. Bd.)
(Quarterly and^seim-annua 1 premiums on existing policies,' due subsequent to
t Premiums on existing policies incourse of' transmission'and collection'' (The
Reserve on these policies included in Liabilities, is estimated at £349,794
Agents’ Balance
Accrued interest on investments, January 1, 1890........ ,i
Market value of securities over cost value on t oiiipauv’s Books
t A detailed schedule of these items will accompany the usual annual report
filed with the Insurance Department of the State of New York
TOTAL ASSETS, January 1, 1890
Appropriated as follows—
Approved losses in course of payment
Reported losses awaiting proof, &c
Matured endowments, due and unpaid (claims not presented I
Annuities due and unpaid (claims not presented). ..
Reserved for re-insurance on existing policies at the Actuaries’' table' 4' ner
cent, interest 1
Reserved for contingent liabilities to Tontine Dividend Fund
January 1, 1889, over and above a 4 per cent. Reserve
on existing policies of that class 1 321 764
Addition to the Fund, during 1890 ‘ ‘
DEDUCT—
Returned to Tontine policy-holders during the year
matured Tontines
20.787,514 18 1
1,217,662 1 8
11,607,441 0
2,724,870 15
3,725,619 17
763,168 14
75,595 11 1
336,552 10 11
227,212 11
18,580 3
90,811 13
20,787,514 18
828,452 7
£21,615,967 5 5
90,641 11
77,242 11
8,352 7
6,169 4
18,293,042 7 9
Balance of Tontine Fund, Januaiy 1, 1890
Reserve for premiums paid in ad\ ance
1,795,127
209,725
16 10
3 5
.0 3
2 9
1,585,401 17
8,240 1
Divisable Surplus (Company’s new Standard).
20,069,090 1
1,546,877 4
Surplus by the New York State Standard (including the Tontine Fund) in -10
polities / 0
*- s&ssm.^
WILLIAM H. BEERS, President. | HENRY TUCK, Vice-President
Sterling calculated at $4.86 to the £ (per value of gold).
*i\ OTh.—ll calculated at 4s. 2d. to the dollar, Total Assets would be £21,886,167.
JOSIAH HOWELL General Manager, Department of Australasia,
BOND STREET CHAMBERS, SYDNEY, NEW SOUTH WALES.
Ask for the
Unequalled
“DAWN” 3d. CIGAR,
o
Of all
Tobacconists,
Store
AND
Hotel
Wholesale Agents: A. M. MARKS & Co., 74a PITT STREET, SYDNEY
o
DAWSON'S
Sole Agents for Australasia
VAUGHAN, ROGERS & 00.,
(Opposite 0.P.0.)
108 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
p
E
R
F
E
C
T
I
O
N
WHISKY.
sub-agents wanted
IN THE
PRINCIPAL CENTRES
THROUGHOUT AUSTRALASIA.
The Waterbury Watch is cheap because it con-
tains less mechanism than any other, and can be
repaired at less cost. * But it goes sixty minutes
to the hour regularly all the time; that’s why the
factory has had to be enlarged, and the agencies
have extended.
CAUTION. —AII Watches Manufactured
WATCH Ca HAVE ™ E WORD
WAIMBURY” PRINTED IN FINE TYPE UPON
THEIR DIAL FACES, AND ALSO THE INTERWOVEN
LETTERS W.W.Co., WITHOUT WHICH NO WATCH
SOLD AS A WATERBURY IS GENUINE. If you
want correct time and a watch which in event of
accident can be efficiently repaired at a reasonable
cost, DEMAND THE WATERBURY.
l/f
USING THE 'BEST
MATERIALS', THE
BEST RESULTS FOLLOW
try
m
DR. SCOURS Electric Hair Brushes will posi-
tively CURE Nervous Headache or Neuralgia in
five minutes, if used according to directions. In
ordinary everyday use they will promptly arrest
falling hair and baldness, dandruff and diseases of
he scalp, and make the hair grow long and
glossy. I hese beautiful brushes are made with
pure bristles—not wire which injure the scalp and
cause baldness and irritation. Illustrated price
hst of Dr. Scott s Genuine Electric Appliances
posted free on application to the
Pall Mall Electric Association,
5<5 MARGARET STREET, SYDNEY.
STRONG EVIDENCE.
(From the BLACKBURN TIMES.)
William Henry Holden, residing at 28 Whalley
Old-road, Blackburn, has evei' since 1872, at fre-
quent intervals, been subjected to indescribable
suffering, owing to terrible attacks of intense pain
and swelling in his feet. His agony at such times
almost drove him frantic. As is natural to sup-
pose, everything that was recommended for the
ailment, which was of an acute rheumatic nature-
was used, but either owing to the stubbornness of
the complaint or other causes, all the remedies
applied proved futile. A few weeks ago, Mr.
Holden, hearing how the life of Mr. William
Buchanan, one of the Cunard Steamship Com-
pany’s engineers, had been saved by St. Jacobs
oil, after he had been given up by the Liverpool
doctors to die and had been at times deprived of
his reason by suffering, resolved to induce his son
to try this oil, and procured a bottle from Jackson
and Co.’s drug store. To his utter amazement,
and that of all the members of his family, the
excruciating pain and terrible swelling left after
only a few applications of the remedy had been
made, and the young man is now free from his
sufferings, “The change brought about by this
bottle of St. Jacobs oil is simply wonderful,” re-
marked Mr. Holden; “and I gladly state that
it has done more for my son in a single minute
than all the remedies we had used before that
time had accomplished in fourteen years. This
may seem like a broad statement, but it is the
plain, simple truth ; and I gladly give my consent
to the publication of our experience with this
wonderful remedy.” It may be here stated that
leading newspapers of Manchester and Liverpool
have recently reported similar remarkable cures.
Among these is that of Mr. Jno. Tetlow, a well-
known resident of Oldham, who had long been so
seriously afflicted with rheumatism that he was
unable to walk. He was bent with agony. A
single bottle of St. Jacobs oil effected such a mar-
vellous change that he is not only free from pain,
but, although sixty years of age, he can walk as
well as ever. So delighted was he with his relief
that he personally sent a testimonial to the Great
Britain Branch of the proprietors, the Charles A,
Vogeler Co., 45 Farringdon-road, London, with
full permission to have such use made thereof as
they wished. The case of Mrs. Ann Watson, of
Upper Pitt-street, Liverpool, is another instance
of the incalculable value of this marvel of healing.
The lady writes that she had been entirely de-
prived of the use of her feet owing to rheumatic
troubles of long standing. Physicians could do
nothing for her, and all medicines which she used
were without avail. St. Jacobs oil was finally
used, with the same astonishing results as in the
instances above reported. She can walk as well
as ever, and is in perfect health. Facts like the
foregoing speak for themselves, and it must be
admitted by all that so valuable a discovery as
that herein referred to deserves to be made known
everywhere.
DEY AIN’T BUILT THAT WAY.
Wat-er-berry nice watch fo’ all de boys,
Said Gus, to his chum one day ;
De cheap Swiss trash wont stand like dis,
Kase, why ? Dey ain’t built that way.
I’m bettin’ a dime that it’ll keep time,
And I heerd a gemman say
Dat de springs won’t break like cheap Swiss trash
Kase, why ? Dey ain’t built dat way.
Took free dollars and ’arf to buy dis watch
Yes, dat’s what I had to pay !
Warn’t any odder style so good fo’ de money—
Kase, why ? Dey ain’t built dat way.
W’en I fust put it on wid a bran’ new chain
Yer can bet that I looked just gay ;
Dar hain’t any kind so nice for to wind—
Kase, why? Dey ain’t built dat way.
An’ I told yer, boys, that the gemman said
Dat dey make more an er thousan’ a day ;
Oh, dis watch is de boss, all odders back down
Kase, why ? Dey ain’t built that way.


Business Announcements.
PRIDDY & CO.,
OF HATS,
OF-
Mercery
438 George Street, Sydney.
Branch— 67B George Street, Brickfield Hill.
Hats made to Order-
Morley’s Hosiery.
o' o fu iflrj
SSfivli
“They fit perfectly, and are
far superior to all the other
I Corsets I have tried.”
i (Signed) Marie Rose.
THE
&
PATENT
Diagonal Seam Corsci,
Will not Split in the Seams
nor Tear in the Fabric.
Exquisite Model, Perfect
Comfort, Guaranteed Wear.
Beware of worthless imita-
tions. Every genuine Y& N
Corset stamped “Y&N Patent
Diagonal Seam Corset, No. 116,” in oval. '
THREE GOLD MEDALS!
Sold by all Drapers and Ladies’ Outfitters.
The most Delicious Sauce in the "World.
YORKSHIRE RELISH
Dottles
sold annually.
Enriches Hot
Joints, Stews,
&"C. 7
Delicious to Chops,
Steaks,Fish,&c.
With soup it is
charming.
Agrees with the
most delicate
person.
Makes cold meat
a luxury.
Makes the plain-
est viands pal-
atable.
The daintiest
dishes more
delicious.
A great addition
to Cheese.
Epicures pro-
nounce it the
best Sauce.
Fears no com-
petition. A mar-
vel of cheapness
and enterprise.
Suitable to the
invalid’s cup of
Broth.
Beware of colour-
able imitations.
H.E.H; the Prince of
Wales has recently ex-
pressed himself as highly
pleased with it.
SOLD EVERYWHERE.
Wholesale Agents TILLOCK & Co., Kent
and Liverpool Streets, Sydney, N.S.W.
WTO
C£i£B
E^s?
S
E
PROBLEM OF TO-DAY-WHERE CAN WE GET GOOD
BOOTS’—SOLVED AT LAST.
E. FREKTCH
(The French of years ago)
Can supply Residents here with Boots better made than
ever. Boots that must wear well and give satisfaction.
Send your orders then to 82 Oxford Street, and he sure
to enclose Sizes and Remittance, when your parcel will be
sent at once by Post, Rail, or Steamer.
Notice Prices for Boots that look well, wear well
and fit well.
Children’s Elastic-sides, 2/-, 2/11, 3/6, 4/-, 4/6, etc. I Best
Men’s & Youths’ ditto, 5/6, 6/-, 6/6, 7/6, 8/6, etc. / Boots
Men’s & Boys’ Bluchers, 2/11, 4/-, 5/-, 6/-, best ever made.
A Line of Stylish Laced Boots for Best Wear
(Boys’, Youths’ and Men’s Sizes).
ENGLISH BOOTS for LADIES, CHILDREN, etc.,
Sent as ordered. Lowest Price.
Satisfaction given or Money Returned.
Note the Address:
ECLIPSE BOOT CO.,
83 Oxford Street, SVOVKV.
E. French, Manager.
33. O. L.
VERY = OliT) = SPECIAL
SCOTCH = WHISKY.
(:)
DISTILLERIES CO. <Liimted>.
RAIN’S FAMILY & COMMERCIAL HOTEL,
PRINCES STREET,
(Opposite G. P. 0.)
ID TJ UNT EDI IST., JST.Z.
ALEX. PALMER .. .. Proprietor.
RACER
V
-C N
4?
m
SCIENTIFIC
INSTRUMENT MAKER
10 MACQUARIE PLACE (Opposite Exchange).
Grand Pier Hotel, IVEanly,
mmma
tltormo PHOTOENC. CO.. 8 BRIDGE'S!; SYDNEY.
LATIMER it HROOKE .... Pioprielor*.
This Hotel has been Re-Furnished throughout.' pi?” Cuisine and. Comfort a Speciality,
-A-aroiis’ Exchange Hotel, Sydney.
118—
- ■
, •
f
■ ■
iU
.—-
f -
: I
-
, - <*, “ ~
Adjoining the Sydney Exchange.
Mining, Financial and General Mercantile Intelligence
Posted several times DAILY in the Building.
TELEGRAPH, POST and MONEY ORDER OFFICES on the PREMISES.
This Hotel has been thoroughly renovated and refurnished, and is now unrivalled for comfort
and attention.
Aarons’ Exchange Hotel Co. (Limited), Proprietors,
“THE
PLU
riIHIS brand of Razor is something superior to anything that has ever been offered to the public.
I Pure hollow ground, beautiful silver steel, and rings like a bell; set ready for use, and we
guarantee each Razor for two years. It never requires, grinding, and to gentlemen who shave them-
selves they cannot possibly do better than to try this particular brand.
Price - (S i n * le ? {WOr > 111I 11 leather case, 10/6; Pair, in beautiful morocco leather case, 21/-
1 Single Razor, ivory handle, 15/-; Pair Razors, ivory handles, in beautiful case, 30/-
Registered and sent Post Free to any part of the Australian colonies.
SOLE AGENTS: CRAIG AITKEIXT, Potosi Hairdressing Saloon.
6BO A. 682 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
JONES’ SEWING MACHINES,
FOR THE BOOT AND TAILORING TRADES.
The Best Manufacturing Machines in Existence*
Now Perfected, the New No. 3 and No. 4 Machines on an Entirely new System,
STOCK JUST Xi .A. XT X) 11ST Gr.
Farleigli, UNT ettliel m, & 00.,
TANNERS AND LEATHER MERCHANTS,
16 x YORK x STREET, x SYJ3NTBY.
Sole Agents for the above for New South Wales and Queensland.
( x )
ALSO Importers of Requisites for the BOOT MANUFACTURING TRADE in all Details, including MACHINERY
IMPORTED LEATHERS, &c.; and of the following Special Lines; Peerless Ciloss, Safin I'ulisli, Nubian
Blacking. Tanners’ Tools and Materials. Indents Executed on Favourable Terms.
Medical.
DR. RICHARDS.
;i: -n- 1 - ' ■ : dd'ir
, h |L| ii
il
<s!q
m
BBSSE
I
This eminent Specialist, Founder, and Chief
Surgeon of the long-established and favourably-
known Dispensary that now bears his name, re-
ceived his medical education in the leading colleges
and hospitals of Europe. He has devoted a life-
time to the study of
PRIVATE, NERVOUS, AND SKIN
DISEASES.
He has by profound research thoroughly investi-
gated their origin, traced their deadly sources and
insidious dissemination, and ascertained the surest
and safest methods by which they may be eradi-
cated, with these widely recognised qualifications
combined with unswerving faithfulness to hu
patients, he has during his practice, extending
over FORTY YEARS, attained a well-deserved
pre-eminence in their treatment. His practice
embraces diseases which probably cause more un-
happiness than any other class of troubles that
afllict mankind. •
YOUNG MEN
who suffer from the results of early follies, trans-
gressions or excesses of more nature age, bladder
difficulties, a whitish or dark ropy sediment in
the water, accompanied by slight burning or
smarting sensation, Headaches, Drowsiness during
the day, circles round the ■ eyes, Giddiness,
irregularity of the bowels, specks before the eyes,
bashfulness, discontentedness, weakness or pains
in the back, Liver or kidney complaints, dreams,
buzzing noises in the ears and head, pimples, a
fear that something dreadful is about to happen,
weak stomach, yellow or blood-shot eyes, impure
blood, hasty, uncontrollable temper, hacking
cough, who cannot marry, nervousness in society,
wakefulness, palpitation of the heart, general
weakness, and other symptoms which lead to in-
sanity and death, should consult him, for he has
mastered these difficulties. On receipt of 6d. in
stamps he will send secure from observation in a
plain wrapper, postage
FREE, A LARGE CLOTH-BOUND
BOOK.
Showing plainly how all diseases of the private or
nervous system may be cured thoroughly and per-
manently without unnecessary expence. This
book will prove a valuable companion, and even
though you be perfectly well its general inform-
tion and prescription may assist you in restoring
some poor friend to health even after his case has
been pronounced incurable by his medical at-
tendant.
ONE POUND IS SUFFICIENT TO
SEND
for Remedies necessary for the cure of NER-
VOUS DEBILITY. Should you require medical
treatment, as procrastination is sometimes dan-
gerous, it would be advisable for you to sit down
quietly in your chamber and write to the doctor,
detailing every experienced symptom. He will
on receipt of such a letter, write you, promptly
and courteously, a candid and straightforward
oponion of your case. If you do not think you
understand the case, send for his famous medical
work, the price of which is but sixpence ; enclosed
in the volume will be found a list of carefully-pre-
pared questions, which will, in all probability,
assist you materially in describing your ailment.
Dr. Richards uses nothing but the purest remedies,
and never prescribes mercury under any circum-
stances. The moment letters are carefully per-
used and answered they are destroyed by fire,
and patients may rest assured that their cases
will remain a secret between the doctor and
themselves. Dr. Richards has successfully treated
nearly 25,000 cases since coming to Australia, and
has permission from at least 10,000 persons to
show their written evidence of his success. All
communications should be addressed
Dr. RICHARDS,
7 Spring Street
(Off Pitt Street -North)
SYDNEY.
Re sure to mention this paper when writing
CONSULTATION FREE,
/Tcf
ft*//* 4. 4KTI
j '~v*rH
i * rs
I 'A/ /
THE MONOPOLIST’S DREAM.
“In the dead of the night a sweet vision I saw,
And thrice ere the morning I dreamed it again.”
—CAMPBELL.


JJUDDART, PARKER & CO.’S LINE
STEAM TO
MELBOURNE and TASMANIA.
From Huddart, Parker’s Wharf.
For Time and Date of Sailing, see daily papers.
The magnificent steamships, BURRUMBEET and
K LING AMITE, have established an unrivalled reputation
for their speed and accommodation, and their large size
ensures passengers a maximum of comfort. The saloon
cabins are light, airy and very roomy. The dinim- saloon
is full width of the ships, also magnificent music room
with gentlemen’s smoking room and splendid promenade
deck. Fore-cabin is on the main deck-lofty and well-
ventilated, perfect sanitation and ample lavatories Fore
cabin passengers provided with victuals and rues Insnec
tion invited on days of sailing. " 1
FARES to MELBOURNE :
Saloon, Single ... £1 h o
„ Return ... 2 5 JJ
Forecabin jq
FARES to LAUNCESTON:
Saloon, Single * tt> £2 5 0
„ Return ” 315 0
Forecabin 1 0 0
FARES to HOBART :
Saloon, Single £lO 0
» Return 110 0
Return Tickets available for Six Mouths.
For Freights apply
HUDDAET, PARKER & 00-
(Limited).
Office and Wharf: Foot of Margaret Street, Sydney.
TJNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF NEW
ZEALAND, Limited.
SAN FRANCISCO ROYAL MAIL SERVICE
OVERLAND ROUTE TO ENGLAND VIA SAN
FRANCISCO AND NEW YORK,
Calling- at
AUCKLAND and HONOLULU,
Avoiding alike the heat of the Red Sea and the cold
TT , „ . , of Cape Horn.
~ Under Contract with the Postmasters-General of New
South Wales and New Zealand, the steamers of this line
are appointed to leave Sydney and Auckland for Honolulu
■uk San Francisco every fourth Wednesday, sailin'. '"
Arrive at
San
Francisco,
July 6
Ainrnst 9
Each steamer carries a duly qualified surgeon
are fitted with Electric Light and with a
Kefn eiatmg Chamber for ship provisions, insuring a
plentiful supply of ice throughout the voyage.
Passengers are booked to San Francisco or through to
European destinations and have at San Francisco choice of
(he unrivalled Atlantic Steamship Lines ofThe Cimard
Inman, \\ hite Star, and other companies.
. All first-class passengers are allowed 3501 b. of
to San 1-rancisco and 2501 b. “Overland ” free of charge. °
THROUGH FARE TO LIVERPOOL.
MRST-CLASS ~ .. .. _
Time-cards, railway maps, and gu de books, showing all
routes to any point in the United States, may be had on
application J
For rates of passage and freight and ali other informa-
tion apply at the Company’s Offices, 15 Bridge-street.
FREDK. AV. JACKSON, Manager.
SERVICE TO ENGLAND.
PENINSULAR AND ORIENTAL STEAM
NAVIGATION COMPANY.
The Compfuiy's Royai Mail Steamships (under contra-t
with the Imperial, New South Wales, Victorian, and South
Australian Governments) will be dispatched from their
Mhaif, Circular Quay, as under, for LONDON, callim- at
Aden. Brindisi,
Steamers.
Commander.
cs
0 72
l-J
3 73
Ballaarat .. J 4748 E Ashdown _ June 16 June 21L
Parramatta 4771 R. G. Murray June 30 July
Oceana . 6362 P. S. Tomlin .. July 14 July 191,
Massiha .. 4918 C. Fraser .. ..(July 28 ! Au«'.
Arcadia . .j6362|w. B. Andrews |Aug. lljAug. ic!
r,™.^? dbenceforfch evei T alternate week]
„ ( , fO'7SI'.K\ El) CABINS ON MODERATE TERMS
SALOON PASSENGERS MAYBREAKTHEIR JOURNEY
Ihe arrangements for SECOND SALOON PASSENGERS
nmvnfforH 1 ■ thoroUghly r ®' or ? anise d, the accommodation
now offered is unsurpassed. Passage-money can he paid
o famil.v afiSa p eS r ° m En * lan(L L,beral concessions made
through to ind?. 86 Ca ''r°l and P arcels are booked
W 1 nnt I 1d ■ ’ 9 hl ' la ’ and Ja P a n. Cargo and parcels
sadin" ''C '-'-Ce'ved aftcr ,;! p.m. on the day previous to
all apply at the Company’s
Ofhces, 247 George-street. A. MACLEAN ActingTgcnt
JTORDD BUTSCHER LLOYD
” IMPERIAL GERMAN MAIL,
the uni S i e carried according to the requirements of
SI , l , : ssell " er Acts of 1885 a "d 1863.
monthly line of direct steamers
from
, MELBOURNE, and ADELAIDE
to SOUTHAMPTON ANTWERP, and BREMEN, via
COLOMBO, Aden, Suez, and Genoa,
.. taking passengers for London,
connecting from PORT SAID by DIRECT MAIL and
..., 1 ASSENGER LINE to BRINDISI,
"111 be despatched as follows (if practicable):—
Steamer.
Habsburg
Halier
Niirnberg-
| Leave I Leave (
Cojmnander. j Sydney ( Mel- j Adelaide
| noon, (bourne, i ® elua ‘
j J | phore.
! 1890 j 1890 j 1800
Thumann June 18;June 21 June 24
'’ ■ Rennkast’n July 16 July 19 July 22
|H. Englebart (Aug-. 13 Aug'. 16 Aug. 19
And thereafter every four weeks.
PASSAGE MONEY from SYDNEY.
PP-TTTnxr ... £U t 0 £57 103.
MONTH^SDUcIrffim 0 ' NINE and TWELVE
via Sou"hampton. CarK ° b °° ked throUgh to New York >
onU P f e ,.':i al i a r ilities are affo «ied for bringing out relatives
payment* u° m the United Kingdom and Europe by pre-
P KBPTel pa ??^ e mo » e y in Australia,
annlv nni'nl!.-’ PASSAGE, and all further particulars
PPytoFRLDK. BETZ & CO., Agents, 6 O’Connell-street!
JJISTORY OF BOTANY BAY
PRICE-ONE SHILLING
Everybody now-a-days drinks Wolfe’s Schnapps.
The Choicest Jewellery. Daiims & Co., King-.st. Arcade.
Wolfe s Schnapps will make you a netv man.
The Upper Yarra is becoming salter. Too
late. Salt won’t preserve corruption.
The popular liquor—Wolfe’s Schnapps.
Australia gains five millions sterling by
this year’s increase in the price of wool.
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
Wolfe’s Schnapps— popularity increases yearly.
“T.M.T.
*' Home for the Aged Poor,
„ T “Parkfield-avenue, Birkenhead,
ine Little bisters of the Poor have inti ■li
pleasure in bearing their testimony as to the
efficacy of Allcock’s Porous Plasters. They have
seen great benefit derived from them on account
of the relief they so quickly give the sufferer,
they find them a very soothing remedy for all
sorts of pains.—Dec. 24, 1888.”
The Rev. Mark Guy Pea use says:—“P find
them a very breastplate against colds and coirdis ”
Mrs. Henry Ward Beecher (widow of the
celebrated preacher) says I have found them
a genuine relief for most of the aches and pains
which flesh is heir to.”
George Agustus Sala says, referring to ait
attack of bronchitis and asthma he had:—“ One
on the chest and another between the shoulder-
blades soon set me right again. ”
-A. Marvellous 3FC.eaM.ec3.vr.
The approved External Rcinnhi of the ape.
ALLCOCK’S POIIOUS PLASTERS.
Lumbago, Sciatica, Rheumatism, Bronchitis,
Asthma, and all affections of the throat and
lungs; also in Pains, Sprains, and Strains of
every description, and of great efficacy in Indi-
gestion, if w rn over the right side of ‘the pit of
the stomach, changing them every ten days.
A Word of Caution.
When you ask for a Porous Plaster, see you get
Allcock’s ; let no explanation or solicitation
induce you to accept a substitute.
Sold by all Chemists, in various sizes, from 1/11
to 22/6. 2
LICHTNER & CO.
SYDNEY: BRISBANE ?
318 GEORGE STREET 9 ELIZABETH STREET
'i
ft:
m
%
i-r* ' *
PHOTOGRAPHIC
-STOCK-
IMPORTERS.
SEND FOR OUR NEW ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE
CAMERAS, LENSES, CHEMICALS, MAGIC LANTERNS
And all Articles appertaining to PHOTOGRAPHY
):(
CHEAP AMATEUR OUTFITS
-r
j
•*. •o.e.
3&*
Av\» % -5
a
*V S *
Vi'
*4^
-vO*
God Bless the Duke of Argyle
The most distressing forms of itching and inflam-
matory diseases of the skin and scalp are instantly
relieved and permanently cured by the Cuticura
Remedies, when all others fail.
Cuticuea, the Great Skin Cure, and Cuticura
Soap, an exquisite Skin Bcautifier, prepared from
it, externally, and Cuticura Resolvent, the new
Blood Purifier, internally, Cure every form of tor-
turing, disfiguring, itching, scaly and pimply dis-
eases of the skin, scalp and blood, with loss of
hair, from infancy to old age.
I have been cured of a most unbearable itching
skin disease by the Cuticura Remedies. They
have enabled mo to escape years of suffering.
You may use my name as a reference, and any one
who wants to know about my case may write me,
inclosing stamp. W. B. BROOKS,
47 Grove Street, Providence, R. I.
I am a canvasser, and one year ago I was badly
afflicted with salt rheum, so that I was unable to
walk. I tried the Cuticura Remedies, and they
c tirely cured me. F. E. PERRY, Rome, N. Y.
Sold everywhere. Price, Cuticura, 50c ; Soap,
25c.; Resolvent, $l. Prepared by the Potter
Drug and Chemical Co., Boston, Mass.
,B®-Send for “ How to Cure Skin Diseases,” 04
pages, 60 illustrations, and 100 testimonials.
Two years ago I was attacked with eczema. I
cannot toll you what I suffered. I was the most for-
lorn spectacle you ever saw Charles Kennedy, of
this place, showed me your pamphlet on skin dis-
eases, and among them I found the description
suitable to my case. I bought the Cuticlra
Remedies. I took seven bottles, with the Cuti-
cura and Soap, and the result is a permanent
cure. I thought I would wait and see if it would
come back, but it has proved all you said it would
do, so I will say God bless you and yours.
TIIOS. L. GRAY, Leavertown, Ohio.
I, John J. Case, D. D. S., having practised den-
tistry in this country for thirty-five years, anil being
well known to thousands hereabouts, with a view
to help any who are afflicted as I have been for the
past twelve years, testify that the Cuticura Rem-
edies cured me of Psoriasis, or Scaly Skin, in
eight days, after the doctors with whom I had con-
sulted gave me no help or encouragement.
Newton, N. J. JOHN J. CASE, D, D. B.
Iho Cuticuka Remedies have permanently
cured me of dandruff and facial eruptions when all
other remedies had failed. Por nine months my
head has been entirely free from the slightest signs
of dandruff, and my skin is as clear as when 1 was
a boy. LOU THOMPSON, New Britain, Conn.
PINT
PLBS, blackheads, red, rough, chapped and
oily skin prevented by Cuticttra Soap.
HANDS
Soft, white, and free from chaps and
redness, by using Cuticuka Soap.
Address :
E. TOWNS & CO., SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Business Announcements.
Messrs. MAUDE & CO.,
Florists and Nurserymen,
(Of the Royal Exotic Nursery, Pcnkkurst,)
Have just. Opened their
New Premises at HI King Street, Sydney,
And are prepared to receive orders for CHOICE
PLANTS, FERNS and OUT FLOWERS, and to
undertake all kinds of
Floral Decorations at Reasonable Prices
Business Announcements.
JOHN BRIDGE & CO.,
CIRCULAR QUAY, SUSSEX STREET, A
DARLING HARBOUR,
WOOL BROKERS,
Hides, Tallow, Sheepskins, Kangaroo, Bear and
Opossum Skins, &c,
a'uctioiteees.
aRAENT SALEHTVTTnv.
Shipping.
fJOMP AGNIE DES MESSAGERIES MARI-
TIMES.
SYDNEY to LONDON.
OVERLAND FROM MARSEILLES via PARIS.
Steamers under postal contract with the Government of
France, calling- at MELBOURNE ADELAIDE, KING
GEORGE’S SOUND, MAKE, SUEZ, and PORT SAID.
Passengers hooked to K Ul! RAG II EE, BOMBAY,
MAURITIUS, and EAST COAST of AFRICA.
The service is carried on by powerful steamers of 4000
tons and 3000 effective h.p., built expressly for the Aus-
tralian, and New Caledonian line, which will be despatched
as' follows:
Steamers. I Commander, Sjdneyi Leave Mel-
i at 11 a.m. |bourne4p.m
SALAZIE .. Fiaschi .. ...June 25 June 28
YARRA ..Boulard July 25 July 28
And thenceforward on the 25th of each month.
Rates of passage-money to Marseilles from £2O to £O5,
including table wines and Suez Canal dues on passengers.
RETURN TICKETS issued at the following rates: —
English interpreters meet through passengers for
London on arrival of steamers at Marseilles, and accom-
pany them to Paris and Calais. N.B.—Passengers’ luggage
conveyed free of cost from Marseilles to London. For
freight, passage, and further particulars apply at the
Company’s Office, 15 Macquarie-place.
A. CONIL, Principal Agent.
3 e
&
from
every flower that
breathes a fragrance
SWEET SCENTS
LOXOTIS OPOPONAX
y FRANGIPANNI PSIDIUM,
May be obtained
iif any Chemist or
Perfumer.
id Street
V O%
of imitations: The genuine is sigaed.
55
TRADK'IIAUE .—MUou DKlilfc
o
HEALTH for the MILLION !
WATSON’S
Mild, Aperient, Antibilious
Pills, purely vegetable
in their composition,
are particularly recommended to either sex, where a
gentle, but effective aperient is required. These Pills
are invaluable for all complaints of the Stomach and
Liver, speedily removing sick headache, biliousness,
indigestion, etc., and cleansing the
blood of all impurities. To Ladles
these pills will be found invaluable.
One trial is sufficient to prove their vast superiority
overall others. Sold by all Chemists and Storekeepers.
Price Is. per box. Prepared solely by John Watson,
Chemist, George Street,.Sydney,
PILLS
Messrs. Et
Diiro Co.,
Til.loch &
Wholesale Agents :
LIOTT liltOS., S. UOI'I NI N(i & C'O., Al
1 IHLIMIAM Oo'l'ilKLK it Co. , MVKISS it SOLOMON'
Co, and J I!, l.ovk & Co.
Professor Drummond has been psycholo-
gismg some of the Twelve ApostJes-John,
man wh^ and Pe A er - , He says John was a
V .fA h w CVer thou , srht J he s aw, which was far
oertei. He never thought about a thing, nor
lfc ’ but , he Saw U - This was the
highest of all types of man, Thomas, however
tlm e mlttir ai i ythl ? g 5 - h - e "T as blind as a bat t0 ’
t ouJh Tt T l sp i r . ltual Blde of b fe = but he
bought. That was his weapon. . . Peter
ahead"’ n T ne f lther nor bought 5 he just went
ancaci. hot us anticipate—
St ir P u ter matched his pearly gate,
m,h' alf-noddmg, too, the whiles,
1 he boom in saints not being great
a jj U ?h fhe twelve turnstiles,
A sudden knock made Peter start.
He peeped a-through the hole—
J - r ‘i«h from the undertaker’s cart,
He saw a human soul.
“ A"i? 1 ' ( ; ard > my new-chum sprite?” quo’ Pete
.. "Professor Drummond, Scot.” 1 ’
You ve missed your road ! the other street
«isj eaC S y?ur region hot.”
~ a > "a, puir Peter, here’s ma pass,
°ri m c^osen leaven,
Ihe Covenanters made ma mass,
Ma ticket’s straight tae heaven.”
<l ina y be 5 let it bo ;
r « ,? , f ind y° ur Pass a sell:
h°ld this gate, Professor D..
i And you may go to—well,
j 1 don t forget with what queer chrism
V ou laved my memory ;
1 forget your criticism
Dt 1 hornas, John and Me.
“ John’s the highest type, he h ?
Dong live the opiac gum !
Dreat chloral hydrate ! cannabis !
1 remens de-lir-i-um !
John never reasoned ? never thought ?
Q j. t aW hhing-s ? Did he, though ?
Axr.fh a sot whose sleep’s distraught
With too much grog, I trow.
<<: A n ?i? idymus ’ y° u fhink, could think?
*ht Peter was an ass ?
PI can’t see, my eyes can’t blink
Puough to let you pass,
e re duffers here ; a chap like you
Wants company that’s reaf,
1 oan’t, Professor, pass you through -
they’ll welcome you in Sheol!”
DIPSOMAN IAC.


A pure spirit—Wolfe’s Schnapps.
Charlkmont and Co., photographers to the
Governor, Royal Arcade, have moderated their
charges for photographs, with a view of meeting
every one. Cabinets now 16s. per dozen.
Wolfe’s Schnapps will do you no harm.
Government Advertisements.
Department of Public Works,
Sydney, June 6, 1890.
Tenders eor public works and
supplies.
For Conditions, see Government Gazette.
TENDERS for the Works, &c., specified below
will be received at this Department until 11 o’clock
a.m. on the dates mentioned.
WEDNESDAY, JUNE 11.
Bridge over Bega River, at Tarraganda
Erection of Police Barracks, Tingha
Bridge, Cur ban Creek, road Dubbo to Coonamble
Erection of Post and Telegraph Office, Kogarah
Erection of Post and Telegraph Office, Marrick-
ville
Supply, &c., Turret Clock, &c., Court House,
Wollongong
Bridge, Gilargambone Creek, road Dubbo to
Coonamble
Construction of Tramway, Yass railway station
into Yass
Construction of Tunnels, &e., Main Western Out-
fall Sewer. —Contract No. 62 Sydney Sewerage
Additions, &c., Lockup, Burrowa
Erection of Lookup, Brushgrove, Clarence River
(fresh tenders)
Construction of Eirst Section Sea Wall, Coogee
Bay
Minnamurra River Bridge, Contract No. 2, Erec-
tion (fresh tenders).
WEDNESDAY, JUNE 25.
Bridge over the Murray River, at Corowa—Con-
tract No. I—Supply1—Supply of Ironwork. Contract
No. 2—Erection of Iron Bridge
Construction of Strong Room, Lands Office, Armi-
dale (fresh tenders)
Additions Police Buildings, Cudgellico (fresh
tenders)
Repairs, &c., Post and Telegraph Office, Yass
Erection of Police Barracks, Cassilis
Bridge over Evans’ Plains Creek, at Dunkeld,
Main Western Road
Additions, Hospital for the Insane, Gladesville
Bridges, Nos. 1 and 2, over Stockton Creek, Road
Laguna to Morrisett
Erection of Cottage, Hospital for the Insane,
Parramatta
Erection of Police Barracks, Emmaville
Low-level Bridges, Nos. 1 and 2, over Butts-
worth’s Creek, on road Wilberforce to Free-
man’s Reach
Painting Stores, &c., Garden Island
Repairs, &0., Lock-up, Jamberoo.
WEDNESDAY, JULY 9.
Works, Culoairn-Corowa
Railway
rPlans, &c., to be seen at
the office of Engineer-
in-Chief, Railway Gon-
I struction Branch, Phil-
V lip-street
Erection of Court and Watchhouse, Michelago
Bridge over Marthaguy Creek, road Warren to
Quambone, at Inglegar.
WEDNESDAY, JULY 16.
Works, Nyngan-Cobar
Railway
Plans, &0., to be seen at
the office of Engineer-in-
Chief, Railway Construc-
tion Branch, after 2nd
June
WEDNESDAY, JULY 28.
Works, Kiama-Nowra
Railway
Plans, &c., can be seen
I at the above office of
1 the Engineer-in-Chief
I after June 9,
WEDNESDAY, AUGUST G.
Bridge, Hunter River at Aberdeen —Contract
No. I—Manufacture of Ironwork, &c. Con-
tract No. 2—Erection of Bridge.
WEDNESDAY, AUGUST 20.
Bridge, Darling River at Wentworth— Contract
No, I— Manufacture, &0., Steel Lift Span on
| Iron Piers. Contract No. 2—Erection of
Lift Span, &0., &c.
WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 15.
Manufacture and Supply of 48-inch Wrought-
iron Water Pipes, special castings, &c. —Con-
tract No. 72, Sydney Water Supply. (Dupli-
cation of Pipe Line, Potts Hill to Sydney)
Manufacture and Supply of 48-inch Cast-iron
Water Pipes, special castings, &c. —Contract
No. 73, Sydney Water Supply. (Duplication
of Pipe Line, Potts Hill to Sydney.).
BRUCE SMITH.
THE REFEREE.
A subscription—which, though much-pushed,
up to date looks very sickly —was set on foot to raise a
monment to the departed sculler, Searle. And now it
appears that the professional glory - engineers who,
after taking part in the promotion of a “public funeral
to Searle,” allowed the colossal bill to be footed by the
dead lad’s poor old struggling father, have up to now
permitted the doctor’s bill (£200), for attendance on Searle
during his last illness, to remain unpaid. It is not likely
that the public will consent to whatever memorial-money
has hitherto been subscribed being spent in a gaudy
tombstone while father Searle is being writted by the
doctor who did his best to keep the son alive. This latest
development of the “sentiment” of Australian sport is a
gross scandal, and the moral of it should not be wasted on
the scullers who are now metaphorically chained-up in
public-house back-yards.
# * *
What does the “ glory,” the “ upholding of the
honour of Australia,” all amount to ? What is its net
result on the side of the sculler? If “successful,” the
oarsman usually becomes landlord of a pub., and, in the
long run, dies in a “kidney-fit,” amidst the curses and
jeers of the wives and widows of all the sots he has
filled up with bad gin. He has a gorgeous funeral,
attended by three or four hundred cabs, each containing
two men with enlarged livers, red noses, shiny black suits,
and huge gold watch-chains—a funeral as revoltingl.y
vulgar as the hideous “ illuminated testimonial ” pre-
sented to him by his parasites a month after his great
victory and exposed in some shop-window for the edifica-
tion of the tough who wears a red necktie bedizened with
a brass pin.
# #
Had Searle gone to America absolutely “on his
own hook,” as he was so often advised to do by The
Bulletin, he could, merely by accepting the best available
local offers of business, have-made an independence by
exhibition. Once again we give our advice, gratis , to
Stansbury, who will, very likely, be the next champion.
So soon as the title -is his, let him throw backers to the
dogs, go over to the States and wade in at exhibitions —
not championship races, for these, while he holds the title,
should only be rowed on the Parramatta —for all the title is
worth. It is hard to estimate what the popular champion,
Beach, might not have made, had he accepted the advice
we tendered him when in the zenith of his glory.
* # *
The Sydney shandy-gaffers—[Bulletin co,"j •
right]—still continue their juggling over the sculling
championship. They now refuse to consent to Kemp
being matched against O’Connor for the championship
unless the race is for at least £5OO aside. It was, they
observe, Hanlan, O’Connor’s countryman, who first in-
sisted on the championship battle-money being put up to
that amount, and O’Connor himself wanted to row for
£5OO when he first came here. As to the first contention,
the lovers of sport as sport (as distinguished from the
betting clique), who will in the long run arbitrate and
decide in such matters unless sculling is to stink as pro-
fessional pedestrianism has stunk, do not feel them-
selves bound by the actions of O'Connor’s slippery
countryman any more than they consider O’Connor
bound by the actions of his countryman, Courtney,
whose racing-shell was so mysteriously sawn. Nor do
they consider that interested persons of the sporting-pub-
lican calibre can possibly be constituted a court of appeal
in what is, after all, a semi-national matter. Two blacks
don’t make a white. O’Connor, perhaps, had more money
or stronger backers when he first came here, or he thought
when he first arrived that he had a softer thing than now
turns out to be the case. As to the offer of some unspeci-
fied sportsmen or, more probably, betting-man, that he
will put up £5OO or £lOOO on O’Connor’s behalf if the latter
will “show him a good enough mile on the river,” The
Bulletin takes it that O’Connor or any other champion-
ship aspirant should in the interest of fair sport refuse to be
thus entrapped into tacitly ratifying the vicious £5OO pre-
cedent manufactured by, and now quoted by, the sculling
shandy-gaffers aforesaid. Mr. Frank Punch’s resolve that
no larger stake than £2OO shall be put up for O’Connor in
any championship race is a most commendable one.
Mind you, The Bulletin has no stock in O’Connor, has
never communicated with him, and has never spoken to
or heard from him up to the present hour. It has no wish
to set him up as an angel or to have him regarded as one
swayed by motives in any way superior to those which
prompt Kemp or the shandy-gaffers to action. But in
this case it clearly sees that he is on the right side —that
he is fighting, whatever may be his motives, the battle of
every young healthy sculler who doesn’t wish to have to
go hat in hand to a grog-shop or a bookmaker’s office.
# * *
Kemp’s fair-sounding offer to row for “nix”
after refusing a match with O’Connor for £2OO a-side, re-
minds us of the Cheap Jack who says: “ S’elp me, I’d
rather give it to you ! ”
# * #
Says the S.M. Herald—“ Stansbury has equal
credit as a rower with O’Connor.” If the writer means—
his language is decidedly ill-chosen and ambiguous—that
Stansbury’s performances are equal in number and merit
to those of O’Connor, then his statement is misleading,
for while the former has scarcely won a race and never
defeated a man of note, O'Connor has defeated all the
best scullers in America.
# # *
The sporting cablegram fiend has attained hia
ne plus ultra of idiocy in Melbourne Age w r here he
announces that Kirkham has not a 1000 to 1 chance of
winning the Epsom Derby, but is likely to win the Ascot
Gold Cup (a fortnight later) and that Narellan is likely to
win the Csesarewich —which latter is a handicap run in
October. It is but common charity to suppose that “Our
Own Correspondent” is the office-boy, and that this bosh
is compiled on the premises. On what ground does the
Australian press base such a splendid belief in the staying
power of Mr. White’s horses which is to enable them
to win over 2J or 2t miles when they can’t hold their
own over miles ? “ Staying power ”is a relative term
merely. A brilliant six-furlong sprinter will tire before
covering a mile in the very best company, and yet donkey-
lick a lot of second-raters over two miles. The flying roarer,
Prince Charlie, could make no show in the Derby, but for
the Leger, a quarter of a mile longer race, he finished
second. The one fast horse in the field beat him, but the
others were not good enough to find out his weak spot.
Of Mr. White's pair it appears to us that Kirkham is a
fairly good horse, who has already made a decent show in
good company, and will win a race when he competes
against animals slower than, himself—animals on which
he can “ wait,” instead of being himself waited upon.
“ Mr. James White’s colt Narellan is suffering
from warbles."— (Cablegram.): —
Narellan has the warbles ! Austral weeps
By day, and wildly mutters as she sleeps—
“ The colt has warbles underneath his skin."
Rare visions of the creature romping in
For that historic race on Epsom Downs,
Amidst hosannas sung by dukes and clowns.
Forever blotted out! The horse may die
And ne’er once catch the judge’s heagle eye.
He has the warbles—not the worthy judge.
But our Narellan. Ere you answer “ Fudge !"
Reflect upon the stuff they cable out—
“ The Prince of Wales, he hasn’t got the gout,"
Or smaller items, e’en of less import,
“ The Queen has ordered mourning at the Court."
And if the specials send such facts as these 1
We fain would know when Kirkham wants to snfieze ;
No news too trivial can readers get . ■% t
Which bears upon the subject of a bet.
The Czar of Russia sprained his little toe—
Dolled-up Augusta died, and went below—
The King of Spain is ill, poor, puling kid 1
We never back these people for a “ quid.”
We heed them not, nor love their royal baubles, ■
But grieve to hear Narellan has the warbles.
# # #
Warwick’s (Q.) champion log-chopper, Dan
Nedan, the other day chopped through a log of dry hard-
wood 18 inches in diameter in ten and a-half minutes.
# # *
The ’Frisco Breeder and Sportsman says that
Joe and Barney Thompson, the Australian “books,” have
offered to take' £20,000 worth of stock, if the rest of the
needful can be raised, to build a track of the best possible
description somewhere near ’Frisco. The intention ia to
have a lawn for ladies’ promenade and all the luxuries of
a Caulfield or Randwick.
* # #
For the Birthday Cup at Randwick on Satur-
day, Insigna and Magnus had most of the game to them-
selves during (he running, as they kept passing and re-
passing each other until the critical moment came, when
{he unjockey-like game told its tale, and Eclipse, who had
been nursed whilst the two leaders had been knocked
about, came away and won by a length from Insignia.
.# # *
The win of Eclipse on Saturday naturally brings
to mind his illustrious namesake, who flourished some 120
years ago. Eclipse was a racer of the first order. On
one occasion, after winning the first heat of a race, his
owner, one O’Kelly, offered to “ place ” all the horses in
the next heat, and after taking up a big sum in bets, he
declared “Eclipse first, the rest nowhere.” And sure
enough Eclipse distanced his field. Eclipse was never
beaten, and in his short career of seventeen months on
the turf, netted his owner £25,000. He did not race until
five years old, and he sired no less than 364 winners, who
won more than £160,000, exclusive of cups and plates.
* * *
A fluffy-haired Sydney barmaid dreamed on
Friday night that a mouse-coloured horse won a big race.
She went out next day to Randwick with a “ friend,” saw
the lately-clipped Eclipse in the paddock and enquired
his name. They won a hundred on the Birthday Cup.
Lots of other people whose dreams were of bays, chestnuts
and greys also backed their visions. They all got rats.
* # *
At the Australasian championship meeting on
Sydney Association Ground, out of eleven open scratch
events, seven went to New Zealand’s representatives, viz. :
Mile and three-mile walks to M‘Kelvey, the first after a
great go with Bullock, of the Sydney Harriers, the latter
anyhow; the mile and three-mile races to Morrison ; the
long jump to Cuff, after a great struggle with Kellett(Q.);
the 120 yards hurdles to Lusk—who is said to be 8 yards
worse than Batger, the N.Z. crack—and the 100 yards to
Hempton. “ Billy ” Macpherson, downed by Hempton in
the short race, put him through easily in the 220 yards,
and secured N.S. Wales’ only other victory by winning the
quarter with eight yards to spare. For Queensland,
Ferguson was successful in the half-mile, and Kellett in
the high jump. Local records were beaten in the mile
walk, and the mile and half-mile races. The features of
the meeting were the walking of M’Kelvey and the run-
ning of Hempton, M‘Pherson, and Morrison. The latter
is one of the most symmetrical and best-styled amateurs
The Bulletin’s representative has ever seen.
* * *
Notwithstanding “Billy” M‘Bherson’s suc-
cesses on Saturday last at the N.S. W. Amateur Champion-
ship meeting, he was not in the best of “nick,” as he has
been under the doctor’s care for some time and has been
“THE VAGABOND”—IN A NEW ROLE.
" AS AN OLD SOLDIER, HAVING FOUGHT FOR THE DIVINE CAUSE OF LIBERTY.”
(From an early photograph.)
doing his work in an elastic stocking. In the 100 yards,
Hempton, the New Zealander, won by nearly two
yards from Macpherson in 10J seconds, but if the former
can run the distance in anything like the time he is
credited with, he could have lengthened the gap at will.
In the 220 yards, Macpherson had apparently little diffi-
culty in disposing of Hempton in 23 seconds, and the
quarter-mile fell to Macpherson in 53 l-10th seconds. The
quarter-mile, which is about the hardest race a man can
run, as it is hard going for the whole 440 yards, is con-
sidered Macpherson’s crack distance. At Newcastle he
did it in 50 3-sth seconds, and at Ashfield, starting off the
2-yards mark, he put it behind him in 49 4-sth seconds.
To the writer’s knowledge Macpherson was not fit to run,
and should he again meet Hempton in the 100 yards he
may reverse the verdict.
# * #
“Sid.” Ferry, who rode his father’s horse
Simpleton to victory in the City Handicap (S. A.) recently,
is a schoolboy of about 15 years, and one of the smartest
little riders that ever sat a saddle.
* # *
It was a noticfeable fact that the five horses who
fihished in front for the Birthday Cup at Randwick and
the first two for the Farewell Handicap, are geldings.
*# ! •
; Some men are easily satisfied. One tipster
picked three horses and named Eclipse as a “cockboat"
—(whatever that may mean. The three horses failed to
nln into a place, but last Sunday’s paper devoted a
paragraph to the fact that its tipster had named Eclipse
as a “ cockboat.” ,
] • * #
A Yankee horseman says there is as much in
the breeding of jockeys as in that of horses. He says the
cross should be sire Irish, dam English, grandam Jew. All
the dare-devil riders are Irish, the English are bull-dogs
for hanging on, and Providence favours the Jews.
• # *
Briggs and Lohtnann seem to be now of little
use against the Australians on a fast wicket, or else the
other bowlers for Surrey and Lancashire must be
unusually weak. With the ground in a bad state the
cracks of Shrewsbury’s last two visiting teams are about
as deadly as anybody going, and little Briggs, in par-
ticular, can make such averages as seven wickets for 33,
playing with Mr. Laverton’s Eleven. For every-day pur-
poses, however, Peel and Attewell are evidently worth
more than any three other English bowlers; which
reminds us that their averages out here, for
the Melbourne club’s imported “amateurs,” was
flrst-olas*. it is of them that the Australians
have most cause to be afraid, for they are less
likely to be “ collared ” on a run-getting day than are
Turner and Ferris. If the weather keep fine it is likely
that Attewell and Barnes will win the match for Notting-
ham, just as Peel, with his 12 wickets for 70 runs (an
astonishing performance against good batsmen on a good
pitch) pulled Yorkshire through.
* * *
Professor Miller walks disconsolate about Mel-
bourne looking for somebody to put the hammerlock
upon, but there is no taker. Lots have dropped into the
grave waiting for Miller to grow old, but then he won’t
drink grog. , •
* * #
The British bookmaker styles Randolph
Churchill's mare, L’Abbesse de Jouarre (winner of the
Manchester Cup), “abscess on the'jor.”
* # *
Ernest Cavill, who goes to England to try for
the swimming championship, took a Sydney benefit the
other evening. The amount realised will just about pay
for the washing of his swimming-trunks. However, he
will be slobbered over when he wins.
Balthazzar Treckfuss is the name of a
Lyonville (Vic.) publican.
“What has he left?” asked Crawley of
Sinuick, when Coldbug departed from this planet.
“Why, he has left the earth,” replied Sinniek;
“ What more could he leave ? ”
The women are now agitating to make
married men wear wedding-rings. A woman is
labelled in three ways when she marries! (1.) The
ring. (2.) Change of name, (3.) She is made
“ Mrs.” The man goes unbranded, scot-free. All
the waitresses in the restaurant may puzzle their
heads. They have infallible recipes for testing
married men, and yet distrust them.
N.S.W, Registrar-General Ward had under
him an enterprising officer or two who, without
his knowledge or consent, arranged on his account
a little overdraft of £BOOO or so at one of the Syd-
ney banks. The bank now wants the State to pay
the money, but the Much-Milked replies per
medium of Salomons, Q.C., “Oh, no, you must
sue Mr. Ward ‘ personally ’ for it.”
The wreck of an ancient mahogany-built
ship, silted up and almost buried in the sand, is
one of the curiosities of the Warrnambool (Vic.)
coast, and after many years of conjecture it is now
proposed to dig up the venerable relic, and shake
the accumulated dust of ages out of her bones, and
see where she came from, and when she arrived,
and how she got there. As far as can be made
out, she belongs to some unspeakably venerable
order of naval architecture, but her age as yet can
only be guessed at. Possibly she dates right back
to the days when able seaman Ham, and Shem,
uncertifloated first mate, and that primitive fore-
mast hand Japhet, got lost on a sea that hadn’t
any shore, and pensively fished for their own
drowned ancestors with a hard biscuit for bait,
and occasionally hooked on to something soft and
flabby which they took to be an extinct scoffer in-
flated to 16 times his natural size by swallowing
the Deluge. Possibly there may be found on
board a log written on granite with a pitchfork,
and in it a brief inscription stating that Jonah
was thrown overboard at 2 a.m., and was after-
wards heard using disrespectful language in a
north-easterly direction. Possibly it is a relic
of the days when Pharoah published his in-
coherent paragraph on the Egyptian atmosphere
on the famous occasion when there was a dry spell
among the pyramids. There are countless possi-
bilities about this aged remnant of the past, and
when the sea-weeds and the crabs and the old
dead oysters, and the decayed winkles are shovelled
off the deck, and the large-sized devil-fish is moved
out of the cabin, and the octopus is persuaded to
let go-his hold on the binnacle, and the sea-ser-
pent has judiciously backed out of the steerage,
there will be a chance to look for the captain’s
skeleton, and to find him still clutching in his
hand the remains of some primeval liquor which
was bottled by Moses, and the cork of which was
driven in hard by Joshua in the wilderness. And
still seated on the top of the bones there may be
found the framework of the captain’s parrot which
was asking him to scratch a poll in a language
long since extinct, at the moment when the vessel
went ashore and the whole show unexpectedly
collapsed. Very likely there was a high old revel
on board the ship, and consequently the hazy
myth at the helm was unable to see his
way, and ran himself and the rest of the
able-bodied spectres and ghouls aground on a
strange coast. Or possibly they had brought up
in a peaceful little bay, and dropped the half-ton
of granite that did duty for an anchor, and offered
up the first mate as a sacrifice to the gods, and
gone to sleep, and then during the night the
patchy-looking local cannibal came softly along in
a canoe, and silently spread his long, many-jointed
claws round ship and crew and cargo, and took
them all in according to the unassuming custom
of the country in those days. If there were any
ladies on board that obtrusive native probably took
them ashore and persuaded them, by concussion
with a prickly herb or a piece of a tree, to settle
down in the land, and adapt themselves to the
manners of the inhabitants—which were few and
far between, and to conform to their customs
which were numerous and beastly. And on the
other hand the old vessel was probably only the Sara! i
Ann loaded with fertiliser, and went ashore partly
because the captain was drunk, and partly because
the mate was too ignorant to know whether he
was going straight or not, and mostly on account
of the insurance money, which was duly paid to
the owner—the .same being a pious and respectable
man who held the plate at the church-door on
Sunday, and created a general feeling of surprise
when he eloped with a Sunday-school teacher
after embezzling all the property of his aged
parents, and left his wife in a destitute condition
with eight small grass-orphans to fake care of.
And probably further investigation will reveal the
fact that he was a plain, red-headed object with
feet like two monuments, and a fat voice, and a
squint, and that the name on his portmanteau was
Thomas Jones.


o
2U®»T PVRMWXi;
°OD WARMER
IU
REG?
SBsJJI2*I
ARE THE!?.
itesg
LIGHTS sifiis
HOURS
POR THESE,j|
\>c
HUM
i ;:■■
m %%%\
A%. %%%$
:v
"0!3K«
w® or
S/
Ml
TOD
, HE','/ PATTERN
Incujdiso BIIABS
“FTRAMID” Lami,
and UEOIB T E E E t
I'AN.VIK'N By this
inventioa any liquid
food can be poured
oat or drunk, with-
out ecum or grease
passing through the
spout, end prevents
spilling when poured
into a Feeding Bottle
eo unavoidable with
ail other Pannikins
These Pannikins
nili Ct all the old
1 ‘ Pyrans LI ” Nursery
Lamps and can
be purchased
separately
In Fireproof
Plaster
Casing
tritb
Single Wicks
in Boxes
containing 8 Lights,
BURN
9 Hours
rach.
‘PYRAMID’ LIGHT
mOlo
rnt
Burglar s
Horror
in Glass
with
Double
Wicks
in Boxes
containing
6 Lights,
BURN
(0 Hours
each
‘FAIRY LIGHT.
Immf ,o Fl i
= 'ir- * 1
II
With DOUBLE Wicks,
in Boxes containing S
Lights and Glass BURN
(3 Hours each Burn
(Q Flours with Single
Wicks. These arc smaller
chan “Fairy" Lights,
consequently less expen-
sive, and - will burn in
my of ihe “Fairy’’ or
Fairy Pyramid" Lamps
FAIRY PYRAMID" LIGHT.
SINGLE Wick m boxea
containing 8 Lights and
Glass, BURN SO Hours.
These are smaller than
“ Fairy ” Lights, conse-
quently less expensive,
and will burn in any ot
the "Fairy" or ” I'airy
Pyramid” Lamps.
ftellcf |[awurit
‘ FAIRY-PYRAMID ” LIGHT.
o
ò
OLD SHAPE
PANNIKIN
NEW
SHAPE
PAN KIKIH
ó
W.B —AD Clarke’s Lights are warranted free from Paraffin, or other dangerous material.
FAR, FAR AND AWAY THE BEST.
Sold, by tb.e leading Fleta.il Hoixses,
Wholesale Agents fa-. Australasia : FRANCIS FORREST & CO., 484 GoUins Street, MELBOURNE.
Wolfe’s Schnapps—the ladies appreciate it.
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
Charlemont and Co., high art photographers,
Royal Arcade, altogether owe their measure of
success to the fact that the merits of their photo-
graphy are always of a high order.
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
Wolfe’s Schnapps should be in every house.
Wolfe’s Schnapps has no rival.
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
Wolfe’s Schnapps—for the liver and kidneys.
ALWAYS AHEAD.
With it none other can compare,
None other dare compete,
For PrmelPs Flour is everywhere
Known to be good and sweet.
Reliable Watch Repairs. Daiims & Co., King-st. Arcade
Wolfe’s Schnapps, the purest spirit procurable.
Ask for Wolfe’s Schnapps and take no other.
Old-fashioned Jewellery modernised to perfection. De-
signs free. Dahms and Co., King-street Arcade.
The United States is a nation of traders. Two-
thirds of the business men of the Republic use
Esterbrook’s “Falcon” Pen. Samples free at
all Stationers.
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
Notice to Artistic and Literary Contributors
Strictly Original matter contributed to Tiik Bulletin
will be paid for. The Editor ivill he glad to receive and
consider contributions as tinder :
1. Original humorous or political matter, illustrated or
otherwise. (Drawings must be made in clean lines
of Indian ink on white paper or Dristol-board.)
2. Unpublished anecdotes of living celebrities, or people
who ought to be celebrated.
S. Humorous / terns (from eight to forty-eight lines pre-
ferred ).
Serious poems, of similar or greater length, especially
those suitable for pictorial illustration.
5. Short Australian or other stories, up to, say, 3000
words. About half that length, or even less, will
he preferred.
All Contributions must he Written Legibly, on One
Side Only of the paper, and folded, not rolled. The
name and address of the writer must appear, in all
cases, on the MS. itself, and not merely on an accompany-
ing letter or paper. The Proprietors do not hold them-
selves responsible for Dejected Contributions; but, if
accompanied by a stamped and addressed envelope or
wrapper, every effort ivill he made to return them.
The Editor does not undertake to enter into any
correspondence respecting rejected Manuscripts.
FOR LA GRIPPE (INFLUENZA)
Anri all colds and bronchial affections the best
remedy is Bosisto’s Original Eucalyptus Oil. In-
ferior oils are bottled to resemble Bosisto’s.
Buyers should see that they get Bosisto’s oil, with
registered “Parrot ” bmnd on yellow label across
the cork. Accept no other, and avoid disappoint-
ment.
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
Insist upon having Wolfe’s Schnapps.
Ladies’ Silver Watches, 355. Daiims & Co., King-street
Arcade.
Wolfe’s Schnapps cheers the mind and body.
Reliable Watch Repairs. Daiims & Co., King-st. Arcade
I
N
K
o
o
/UenTS .
DELISSA* PHILLIPS
3&JBAaR/scK 3trtesr.
Shipwreck and Science,
A Recent South Australian Occurrence.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Once upon a time a maiden, tender chick of forty-
three,
Wandered, full of meditation, by the surges of the
sea,
And her thoughts were of the future, of the golden
time to be,
When a gentleman of fortune would seek her for
his bride,
And she’d encourage him with “Boh! you
couldn’t if you tried ;”
When the seasons, lubricated with the oil of peace,
would glide
Like the fishes in the ocean, or the swallows in
the air,
And her own would twine his fingers in the tresses
of her hair,
And would dedicate his balderdash “to Geraldine
the Fair.”
Such the gems of thought that softly filtered
through her giddy brain
As she paced in dreamy silence only broken by the
main
Rolling shoreward waves that murmured with a
sorrowful refrain.
Then she smiled a smile of triumph as she thought
how he would kneel
And reverence his birdie, and she almost seemed to
feel
His lips on hers—when suddenly she squealed a
squeamish squeal.
For, standing straight before her, gazing out upon
the sea,
She saw a naan like Adam ere he climbed the
apple-tree—
In other words, his “costume” showed a lack of
modestee.
Then she turned, and, with her fingers widely
straggled o’er her face,
She scudded for existence, and she never slackened
pace
Till she found a mounted trooped whom she
pointed to the place
Where the awful thing had happened, and she
blushed a pretty pink,
And looked so shocked and bashful that the man
began to think
That perhaps the ancient lady had been looking
on the drink.
But he followed her directions and he found, the
story goes,
The gentleman whose hobby was a total lack of
clothes,
Who, glad to find an auditor, spun out his thread
of woes.
“ Alight !” he cried, “ Sir Trooper, and be seated
on this rock,
And while the waves in hollow caves the merry
mermaids mock,
The awful secrets hidden in my breast will I
unlock. ”
“ Speak on,” replied the trooper, “ unsophisticated
bloke, ”
As he filled his pipe with “ nigger ” and prepared
to have a smoke,
“Oh, speak ! eccentric Johnnie; tell your story ”
—and he spoke ;
“I was born in Madagascar, where the blossom'
laden breeze
Meanders with a monotone of music in the trees,
And the sun with golden kisses woos the surf of
summer seas ;
“ Where the water, leaping downward, whispers
soft its silver word,
And is answered from the thicket by the singing
of a bird ;
Wh- re the sound of strife and struggle among men
is never heard,
“For they always live in friendship, and if mat-
ters go amiss
Their code of morals teaches them to ‘ make it up
and kiss,’
But at an early age I left this brotherhood of
bliss.
“I had seen but seven summers when I went and
took a berth
Upon the Murra-murra, and my soul was full of
mirth ;
Then I knew not that existence was of very little
worth,
“ And my spirit leaped within mo, as upon a
pleasure trip
We sailed from Madagascar in our jewel of a ship;
But between the jug and gullet there is frequently
a slip;
“ And we never found the pleasure that we left
our homes to seek,
For the passengers were helpless for what might
have been a week,
And had started to recover when the vessel sprang
a leak;
“ And scarcely had we stopped it, when the first
lieutenant swore
He could hear the faint re-echo of the breakers’
distant roar,
And we verified his statement when the vessel ran
ashore
“ On an island uninhabited by man or bird or
beast !
As there wasn’t much variety of grub, we had to
feast
On crabs and beche de mer, and didn’t like ’em in
the least.
“ After fifteen years of waiting, we at last began
to bo
As weary as the Jews who crossed the sanguinary
sea
And had manna for their hreakfeast and their
dinner and their tea.
“ So I called upon the sailors to assist me in a
plan,
By which we might evacuate the island to a man
(For the only thing that hitherto we’d done had
been to scan
“ The broad horizon daily, bat to our unceasing
grief
It brought no hope); they helped me in a manner
past belief,
For each man sadly sacrificed his pocket-handker-
chief ;
“ And I sewed them all together very carefully,
and soon
I placed before the mariners a motley-worked
hallo n,
And the captain, sorely sobbing, said ‘Napoleon
George Goroon,
“ I am lost in admiration ! O, my comrade, let us
try
If a blazing fire will lighten it enough to make it
fly' ;
So he sat with me and slowly wo ascended to the
sky.
“ Then we drifted to the northward, and for two-
and-twenty days
We sailed in thirsty loneliness beneath the baking
blaze
Of Sol, and on the twenty-third Australia met
our g izo;
“ And we breathed our thanks to heaven, when
our frail asylum chose
To sink towards the ocean, so I dropped a suit of
clothes
The only suit I had aboard— and then again she
rose.
“ I was dizzy witli excitement, all the earth seemed
turning round,
And, as we reached the shore, I fell and bumped
upon the ground,
While the good balloon, made lighter by my exit,
gave a bound
“And vanished on its journey with the captain.
That is all ;
Unless you’d like to see conclusive witness of my
fall
In the bruises on my—system, though they’re
really very small,
“Which is curious.” The trooper rose and pub
his pipe away,
And said he’d like to hear him spin his yarn
another day,
So he took him to the township and invited him
to stay;
And he stayed.
J. LE GAY BRERETON.


m.
W\
m
m
M
■im
% mm
m
m
%
■
■
m
mm
, ¥*>
•V//SV/.S
if I
s /
U:;.»
\ I
•v.V
AV
%
3?
iiVAVvVS
%
•
/
English Gossip.*
[FROM OUR OWN CORRESPONDEN.]
London, April 21.
Her Majesty’s health is causing consider-
able anxiety in Court circles. It has long been
an open secret that her feet present an abnormal
appearance on those rare occasions upon which
she holds levies. When any members of the Royal
family have affectionately enquired as to her
health, and especially when any delicate allusion
has been made in reference to the royal pedal
extremities, Her Majesty has exhibited an amount
of temper which, in one less exalted, might be
termed positively undignified. The Court physr
cians have maintained strict secrecy as to the
nature of the ailment from which the Queen is
suffering, and much curiosity is naturally aroused
thereby. However, after much time and research
I have succeeded in probing the mystery. Having
learned that Her Majesty’s boots are specially
made for her by Messrs. Rabbits, I called in at
that enterprising firm’s establishment, in Newing-
ton Causeway. After purchasing a pair of their
fourteen-and-sixpenny elastic sides, I made friends
with the assistant who readily fell in with my
suggestion as to refreshment at the Elephant and
Castle across the road. There, after four ‘‘ threes ’
of Irish hot, I discovered the secret. Her Majesty
has corns and takes number-seven boots,
# # #
Apropos to this, I may mention that I
since found out the real cause of the late painful
estrangement between Her Majesty and Prince
Henry of Battenberg. The Prince, as is well-
known, has a habit of prowling about the royal
residences, especially in the direction of the
domestics’ apartments. Some few months ago,
whilst peering into one of the top attics in
Buckingham Palace, he observed Her Majesty
seated on the floor in the act of cutting her corns
with one of his razors. Hot words ensued, ending
in Prince Henry taking a hurried departure for
Constantinople. As you have since learnt by
cable, a reconciliation has been brought about;
but such was the ill-feeling existing between the
Prince and his royal mother-in-law, that it is
extremely doubtful whether he would have re-
turned so soon, had not his pocket-money got low
and the Sultan declined to cash any more of his
I O IPs.
* # %
The Prince of Wales has had a really
trying week. Owing to the Queen’s affliction, of
which I have already spoken, a heap of extra
duties has devolved upon him. On Monday he
had to attend the Epsom Spring Meeting, wind-
ing up with a visit to the Gaiety in the evening-
Tuesday was spent witnessing the Waterloo Cup>
and Wednesday saw him at the pigeon-match at
Hurlingham. He was again at Epsom on Thurs"
day and Friday, and also honoured the Trocadero
Music Hall with his presence on the latter evening.
On Saturday he was at the meet of the Four-in-
hand Club in Hyde Park, and acted as chairman
at the banquet given in the evening at St. James’
Hall in aid of the Distressed German Princes’
Relief Fund. In spite of his many arduous duties,
however, it cannot be denied that His Royal
Highness still has a tendency towards inordinate
obesity ; indeed, should he continue to put on
flesh at the present alarming rate, the throne will
have to be enlarged to meet the requirements of
his King Hal-like proportions.
# # *
By the way, it may not be generally known
that the Duke of Edinburgh is possessed of a wit
of no mean order. I heard an excellent mot of his
the other day. It appears that the conversation
had turned upon the subject of repairs that are
necessary at the various royal residences. The
Duke, carefully watching his opportunity, re-
marked that “whilst he was at Malta, his residence
was sadly in need of some Jfafte-rations and re.
fiairs.” With the single exception of Prince
Henry of Battenberg, all present were convulsed.
Her Royal Highness, Princess Beatrice, translated
the mot into German for Prince Henry’s edifica-
tion, but up to the time of the closing of the mail
it does not appear to have dawned upon him.
# * *
I am constantly knocking against pro.
minent colonial visitors. En passant, one can
scarcely walk ten yards without noticing a “pro-
minent Australian.” I regret to say that some of
them are inclined to be cool towards their older
acquaintances. For instance, I passed Graham
Berry a few days ago in Piccadilly, and although I
raised my hat, he regarded me with a stony gaze,
and did not acknowledge me in any way. This
display of bad taste on his part may have been
due to the fact that he was sandwiched at the
time between Viscount Dunlo and the Archbishop
of York, but it has nevertheless wounded me con-
siderably. By the way, I came across Henniker-
Heaton the other day. It was near Sb Martin’s-
le-Grand, and he was leaning against a pillar-
postbox, apparently in deep study. I asked him
the cause of his abstraction, and he told me he
was preparing a peroration to a speech he was
going to deliver in the House of Commons that
night. “ How would this do?” said he : “ After
these unanswerable argument t in favour of free
postage to the colonies I trust that the right
honourable gentleman the Postmaster-General's
ear Raikcs.” I told the gifted member for Canter-
bury that it was undoubtedly good, but that h 0
stood a good chance of being suspended for a week
for.it.
# * *
There is not much moving in theatrical
circ l es just now. Rumours were circulated the
other day that Irving and Ellen Terry had
decided on an Australian tour in which they
would take in, besides the capital cities, Mogo,
Condobolin, Wog Wog, and the Jenolan Caves.
However, I was speaking to Irving yesterday
whilst wo were in the Gaiety bar having a cold
sausage together. Ho denied the truth of the
rumour. Although he had a strong desire to visit
the colonies, where he was rejoiced to hear that
his dear old friend Toole was meeting with such
an enthusiastic reception, he did not see his way
to accomplish a tour. He thought it possible that
the inhabitants of the back-blocks districts were
not yet educated up to the mannerisms requisite
for the proper enactment of the rOlcs of Macbeth
and Shylock.
# * *
I was present last night at one of those
most enjoyable gatherings at the Garrick Club. I
sat next to Irving, and I never recollect seeing the
great tragedian unbend as he did on this occasion.
After emptying his soup into Beerbohm-Tree’s
tail-pocket, he dexterously slipped a dish of curry
and rice on Bancroft’s chair whilst the latter had
risen to address the company. Of course the
result may be imagined when Bancroft re-
sumed Ids seat. It says much for the bon-
homie which exists among the profession that
Bancroft thoroughly appreciated the humour of
the thing. It was Tully half-past three before the
gathering broke up, and Irving and I drove home
in a hansom. I may mention that lam occupying
an attic apartment in the eminent tragedian’s
residence, and could, if time permitted, relate
many more amusing anecdotes showing the mar-
vellous versatility o f this most remarkable of
actor-managers.
MONKBARNS.
ò
An Appeal.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
Where’er you are, on earth or laid below it,
A shadow or a substance, dead or quick,
Hereby The Bulletin’s official poet
Begs you to be discovered, Jacob Kick !
This is the sum and substance of his pleadings
That you no longer under mysteries hide
If living, speak, and stop the whole proceedings,
If dead, appear, and hint at how you died.
Ho, who from week to week writes fluent verse on
All themes, impelled by hunger and by thirst,
Implores you (and as handling the third person
Is irksome, will address you in the first-
ire, then, a bard who on Olympian nectar
Should feed, but scarce can win the crudest hash,
And flattest liquors going) lost prospector,
To tell us somehow if by blow or gash
Of murderous hand you fell. We hate to pen it,
But by your present reticence you are
Unwittingly enriching Alfred Bennett
And selling bulky issues of the Statu
You’ve dug for gold, a butt for Fortune’s cap s,
Witli many a “ downstroke of the gleaming
pick
You’ve found it lately —for the evening papers
If never for yourself, poor .1 acob Kick.
You’ve filled men’s minds with very dark sus
picions
Of crime, no doubt, without intending it,
Till ragged boys dispose of late editions
Containing latest rumours about Schmidt.
Now ’tis a tale of trunk decapitated,
Found mouldering in the bush near .lillihg-'
Where once he camped ; and now it is relatejj
How, when he’dwelt at Rush worth long ag\ iy s
The publi; 1 ioke;l with most “ extreme disfavour
Upon his villainously ugly Dee ” ;
Now there are stories of some queer behaviour-
Of his at Wagga, or some other phic '•
Anon a wire describing ahh-aehe l relic
Of something dead that once had been alive ;
Then more from Tmhbarnmba and .lingellic
And everywhere; and then some four or live
New theories of where the monster did it,
Of how he lured you to a spot remote,
Hewed off your hapless head, and safely hid it,
Then started to make free with TayloKs throat!
Till we, with the fastidiousness of genius,
Grown tired of all this whisp ring chill and
strange,
Of hackings done in caves and horrors heinous,
Distinctly are desirous of a change.
You should he cognisant of all the trouble •*
Your absence causes, wheresoe’er you are.
The Evening News (with circulation double
All other papers) gives you many a par.
And far inland each Archimedean gasper
For life that thunders against local wrongs
Has dwelt upon the problem of Wee Jasper
And sold by ones and twos to shuddering
throngs.
But, feeling sure The Bulletin will reach you
Where you sojourn, we tell you we are sick
Of this suspense, and earnestly beseech you
To make some revelation, Jacob Kick.
You’ve precedents for any line of action
Whate’er your sta'e. How many have been
mourned
As dead, who, to the mourners’ satisfaction, ' '
Have very unexpectedly returned.
How often, too, blind Justice has been guided
By unsubstantial bands ! Why, hosts and host?
Of fell assassins’ fates have been decided
And retribution brought to them by gh'
If you’ve been slain—we speak as a well-wisher
To British justice—now’s the very nick
Of time to emulate the ghost of Fisher t
And show where you lie buried, Jacob mk !


Great Medical Reform!
Consult (FREE) HERE. RASSMTJSSEN, the Celebrated Danish Herbalist
Expert Specialist in all Private Complaints, Barrenness and Nervous Diseases.
DENMARK-
o
lft*y
s
D
V
I
T
k
L
I
T
V
vlGflß
%
%
o
%
%
%
-# ctli
vl
A
%
%
0 l
'I
t
%
#
#■
w
r
9
m
m
mm
o
Desk'
ITALITY
A Guaranteed Cure
for
Nervous Debility and
Lost Vitality.
225. 6d. per Course.
Smaller Box ss. 6d.
Oixly ECertoalißt ±m. Australia , w ,
That has received “Gold Medal” for Great Cures Performed, and is Honourably the ffistory
for Great Herbal Discoveries ; and who can prove that he has CURED OVER 20,000 PAliLxMh.
DEMMARK
Sole Proprietor and Discoverer of the Celebrated
VITALITY IPTHLaX-*?^
Re^isterea
Which have been the means of Curing so many Thousands of Sufferers from - - „
Impure Blood. 225. Cd. per Course ; Smaller Box, os. ()d.
Nervous Debility, Lost Vitality, Errors, Weakness, Despondency,
GS-oaxia-iaa-O “DC* <es s-fcxxxx cs xxiELls.
To HERH RASSMUSSEN.— Dear Sir,—This is to certify that you
cured me of a very serious blood disease, after many doctors had
failed. JOHN REYNOLDS, Chappel-street, Leichhardt, Sydney.
To HERR RASSMUSSEN, the celebrated Danish Herbalist.—Dear
Benefactor, —I have much pleasure to inform the public that you
‘cured my wife of an internal complaint of a very serious nature, after
all the doctors had given her up.—ARCHIBALD MACFARLANE,
Eden Cottage, Barney-street, Armidale.
To HERR RASSMUSSEN, Specialist in Nervous Diseases. Dear
Sir, —I hereby thank you for the great-cure you performed on me for
a very complicated nervous: affection, and I shall always recommend
you to sufferers from Nervous Debility.—PHlLLlP STEAD, 54 Parra-
ihatta-road, Annandale, Sydney.
To HERR RASSMUSSEN, Danish Herbalist.—Dear Sir and Bene-
factor,—lt gives me great pleasure to testify to your wonderful skill
in the treatment of Disease. You cured me of a terrible complaint
after the doctors gave me up, and although it is four years since, I am
as well as ever. I shall recommend you to all.—Yours, gratefully, A.
RAMSDEN, Great Western Coffee Palace, Castlereagh-street, Sydney.
To HERR RASSMUSSEN, Specialist in Nervous Diseases.—Dear
Sir, —I hereby certify that 1 have been under your skilful treatment
for a very obstinate case of nervous debility, and that you cured me
with one course of your Vitality Pills.—D. M‘NEILL, Hornsby
Junction, N.S.W.
ò
CsiP»ia3-i , oanLS of tlie Press.
o
It is a well-known fact that HERR RASSMUSSEN, the Celebrated
Danish Herbalist, has performed many great cures during the past tew
years, as his numerous testimonials will prove.-Sydney Bulletin.
ITI.'T'R R ASMUSSEN —We have been shown some excellent Testi-
n.onialsofthe Seat cures performed by Herr Rassmussen, the cele-
brated Danish Herbalist. —Australian Star.
HERR RASSMUSSEN has now been established in the colonies
for 10 years.—Sunday Times, April 28, 1888.
HERR RASSMUSSEN has become a celebrity in the curing of all
diseases of the nervous system. His name-has become awonder
throughout the Southern Hemisphere. He was presented with a Gold
Medal for some of his miraculous cures.—Balmain Leader, Maj 1-, 1888.
HERR RASSMUSSEN.-The remarkable cures which he hasi effected
are pretty generally known.—Balmain Observer, April 28, 1888.
We are perpetually receiving letters from HERR RASSMUSSEN’S
cured patients requesting us to make known to the public the wonder-
ful medical skill this remarkable man possesses, and he has just been
presented with a Gold Medal from several of his cured patients
* —Sydney Weekly News, Ma} 20, 100/.
Herr Raasmussen’s 3EEei*‘fc>*=a<l Jtrt.eiiaed.ies. (REGISTERED.)
DENMARK VITALITY PlLLS.—Guaranteed to cure Nervous Debility, Lost Vitality, Errors of Youth and Despondency. Price, 225. 6d. per full course ; small box, os. Cd.
DENMARK FEMALE RESTORER PlLLS.—Guaranteed to euro all complaints peculiar to Females, Irregularities, and eradicates complaints which cause barrenness.
Price, 225. 6d. per course ; small box, ss. fid.
LOCK CURE PlLLS.—Guaranteed to Cure all diseases of the blood, discharges, sores, and strictures. Price, 225. 6d. per course ; small box, ss. 6d.
CONSULTATION! AND ADVICE FREE.
All the above remedies are made of PURE HERBS, and are forwarded unobserved. A valuable treatise on Nervous Debility, Private Complaints, and Barrenness, sent
free on receipt of 4d stamped addressed envelope. Consultation personally or by pest, free. Patients are examined with the aid of the Microscope.
Address ; - Herr RASSMUSSEN the Danish Herbalist,
Corner Gordon*Btreet & iParlt-road, iH'ad.din.gtoxi, Sydney.
TRAMS—Take Paddington Tram to Paddington Tram Waiting-room.
4 DENMARK-
%
R
E
0
s
L
0
s
I
V
i
T
a
L
f
V
o
%
%
ò
%
%
#
&
$
%
%
ó
%
%
# s#l
ô
#
o
o
V
Restores'
miuY
o
■ r esx\ ' aC3 _.
BALDWIN DRY AIR REFRIGERATOR.
— mwomm**4-&s+*-stf**s**************- —;;
Beware of the many so-called Dry Air Refrigerators advertised by unscrupulous Manufacturers and Dealers, intending
to deceive the public and trade upon our reputation. This is the original and celebrated Dry Air Refrigerator, made
famous by its successful competition at the leading Exhibitions in the United States for the past Six Years, known as
the Baldwin Dry Air Refrigerator.
white mountain freezers, ice milk cans, mixers,
LEMON S Cg XT US 31! IS jE3 UEFtS, &c., &cs.
»»♦♦»»♦♦»♦♦♦♦♦♦ — —
MLEAN BROS. & RIGG, LTD.,
512 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
I
■p
OFFICE :
AUCTIONEERS, LAND & ESTATE AGENTS,
CORNER QUEEN STREET and FLINDERS LANE,
MELBOURNE.
OUTDOOR FURNITURE SALES HELD and ADVANCES MADE PREVIOUS TO SALE. TO
RENTS COLLECTED. VALUATIONS MADE.
32 CHAPEL STSEET, SOUTH MELBOURNE.
rrHE COLONIAL MUTUAL LIFE ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED.
BRANCHES THROUGHOUT THE COLONIES
Policies issued under the Ordinary, Modified
AND THE UNITED KINGDOM,
and Mortuary DividLensi Systems.
ALLAN A. MARSHALL & CO.,
Engineers, Coppersmiths, Brass and Bell Founders,
Finishers, Plumbers, Ship & General Smuhs,
Gasfitters, Art & Medieval Metal Worker
ItOLLEK SKATES .any make) with ISKASS or WOODEN WHEELS.
r— !ftf S i“and Double Action Valve Closets, Fire Hydrants, Hose and all appliances
Bon Accord Works, 9 Macquarie Place, Sydney.
iPecLerated Squatters
—AND—
Farmers’ Co-Operative Association of Australasia, Limited.
CIRCTJLAE QUAY, SATZDItTIB'Y.
WOOL and PRODUCE BROKERS, STOCK and STATION AG-ENTS.
Advances Made and Deposits Received at Current Rates. Correspondence Invited.
T'HIT SYDNEY CATERING COMPANY,. LTD
— "W*-**- • / /T /IIVM o 1 av’fi
(Late Gunsler’s Cafe)
175 Pitt Street,
WISH their former Patrons and the Public Generally to know that their Saloons have
their new cusine a trial.
Sydney,
been Entirely Reorganised, and shall be glad if they will give
JAMES 0- MARQUAND, Manager-


Business Announcements.
TURPIN & BRIAN,
Wholesale ami Family Grocers,
623 George Street, Sydney,
AKE THE
CHEAPEST OK 0(110 in the CITY!
A Tria’ Solicited.
WHITE SUGAR, 2£d. per lb.
ROLLER FLOUR, ss. 501 b. bag.
SPERMS, sd.
MAIR’S SPICED & FRIED HERRINGS,
Ogd. per tin.
Large Bottle W. SAUCE, Gd.
„ PICKLES, Gd.
COCOA, 4Jd. per packet.
41b. Bar SOAP, Gd.
NEW DATES, 3d. per lb.
\ SABDINES, 3s. 9d. per dozen.
Box TEA, 10s. Gd., good and cheap.
51b. WHITE SUGAR and 11b. TEA, 2s.
!!»" NOTE THE ADDRESS:
623—George Street—623
Haymarket, SYDNEY.
(Opposite Square and Compass Hotel.)
A. BOWI AU’S
LONDON MADE
Porpoise Hide Hoots
Are Reduced from 30s. to 21s.
249 PITT ST., SYDNEY, Near Tattersall’s.
Porpoise Hide Weari Twice as Long -
as any other Leather.
They _ are noted all over London,
Birmingham and Liverpool.
LondLon Pashions,
AND
Fresh Goods Every Fortnight.
Trade Supplied Wholesale at a Great Advantage.
MO-
ROSE S
m
m
m\ j
WW/SSPp
m
o
G
1353-
E^T d
mm
rrillS valuable Lotion is guaranteed to cure .S it ELLIN t.
-L and SANDY BLIGHT, INFLAMED EYES and LIDS,
DIMNESS OF SIGHT, &c. It will be found very bene-
ficial and cooling to those who have weak eyes, or whose
work compels them to strain their eyes. Higher
recommended by the leading Oculists.
Manufactured only by the Proprietor,
H. _A_. ROSE-
Dispensing and Manufacturing Chemist
531 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Wholesale by the Proprietor and all Wholesale Houses.
Estahluh-sd ISoS. By Punt os. Gd.
Manufacturer of Dr. SOUTHAN’S GOUT and
RHEUMATIC PILLS.
ows
>-EMBRO CATION
> L~~
t /
%OLD I
Y\
(\EVERY N WH£RE(i
m
NO
DON’T
WASTE
IT
You most certainly save Money,
Time, and Ansiety by placing all jour
Advertising in our
hands.
"Write
to
F. T. WIMBLE & CO.,
Advektisino Espeuts,
163 to C7'i George St., Syd. Semi for Pamphlet
“ How to advertise mi l why ? ” 11th Edition.
o
ARM KAY & CB„
TEA IMPORTERS
AND
BLENDERS,
FOOCHOW arid SYDNEY.
Office and Sample Rooms:
335 Pitt Street, Sydney.
o
Agents Wanted in every Town through ut
the Colony.
jy I STORY OF BOTANY BAY
PRICE-ONE SHILLIN'’
Business Announcements.
BROTH
PAPER-HANGINGS
Oils,Colours * p AIN ts
wall Papers from l
o
Br/ckf/eld Hill
o
piULVEREIACHEE’S WORLD-
* FAMED GALVANIC BELTS
FOR THE CUUK OF
Nervous Exhaustion and Debility, Sciatica,
Lumbago, Rheumatism, &c.,
Have received Testimonials from Three
Physicians' to Her Majesty the 1 ineen and
the Leading Physicians of many London Hospi-
tals, including- over Forty Members of the Royal
College of Physicians of London.
For full Price list and particulars, see new pam-
phlet “ Galvanism ; Nature’s Chief Restorer of
Impaired Vital Energy.” Pamphlets Free.
Sole Agents for N.S.W.,
FROST SHIPHAM
ELECTRICIANS,
474 & 587 George Street, Sydney.
Sole Agents for Victoria;
ALLISON BROS., 477 Coi.lixs-strkbt West, Melbourne.
COLEHANt&SOHS
tes
THE TREE OF LIFE.
EuCALYPTE. OILSa.
Victory OiwTMENTaa
Duixc a, n Hoss,
The Great American Athlete,
CURED of INFLUENZA by using COLEMANE & SONS-
EUCALYPTE EXTRACT.
DOST BE UECEIVEB.
If you want the best Medicine the world has ever pro-
duced, try Colemane & Sons’ Eucalypte Extract —there
are no ten medicines equal to it. It is one of Nature’s
greatest gifts to mankind. It is the only known cure for
Asthma, Consumption, Bronchitis, and all affections of
the Chest and Lungs. For Palpitation of the Heart,
Gravel and Kidney complaints it has no equal. Fevers of
all kinds, Coughs, Colds, Rheumatism, etc., are banished
by its use. Awarded Medals and Diplomas Adelaide,
Sydney and Melbourne, beating all competitors. Singers
and public speakers wdll find C. and Sons’ Eucalypte
Honey a wonder. Be sure and get Colemane and
Son's.
Business Announcements.
D ISiSSSiSBp
fn} [r^QNMES-SHSSX-
v'
X
a
1 IT I
SH
rJKtre«st»M&
--
yt -
ffl
lira
ROBERTS & CO.,
—W HOLESALE—
Ironmongers, Importers, Iron and Machinery Merchants*
HAY AND ENGIIJE STREETS SYDNEY,
Hoad Office: H 5 GracechurcJi Street, Loudon, E.C.
IMPOUT JiltS OF
Railway & Bridge Contractors’
Plumbers’
Squatters’
Requirements
IN
Great Variety.
IMPORTERS OF
Engineers’ and Blacksmiths’
Couchbuilders'
Mining
AGENTS FOR:
Korting’s Gas Engines The best and cheapest yet made. Automatic self-governing, thus saving cost of gas.
Braddock’s Water and Gas Meters and Gas Lamps. Reading Iron Works Universal (Split) Pulley Wheels.
Howe’s Platform and Counter Weighing Machines and Weighbridges.
;/ The Male Generative Function in Health and Disease/’
—BY—
A.X-EXnEI. PATERSOM, 3M.A., M!.D.,
F.R.C.S., Ed. ; M.R.C.S., Ekq.
PRICE ... TWO SHILLINGS and SIXPENCE.
)(
OPINIONS OF THE PRESS:
“ Valuable medical work —the Doctor is a quali-
fied man and speaks with authority.”— Town and
Country Journal.
“Can recommend it as a work written by a
gentleman who has attained a very high status in
his profession.”— Manning River Times.
“It sets forth scientific truths which, in the in-
terests of individuals and society, should be more
generally disseminated.” — Bathurst Free Press.
“ Society would be all the better if people only
gave a little of their reading time to such valuable
medical works as Dr. Paterson has in this instance
given to them.”—Mudgee Independent.
“The author not only fully understands the
K-rils which beset youth and manhood, but he can
point out the remedies.” — Cobar and Louth
Herald.
“Dr. Paterson, M.A., M.D., F.R.C.S.E., is a
high authority on the matters he deals with.”—
Coonamrle Independent.
“The work is well written, and far away the
best we have read on the subject.” -Wilcannia
Times.
“The subject is treated in a manner which
shows the author thoroughly understands it.”—
Fielding Star, N.Z.
“ The book cannot be too widely circulated, and
should be in the hands of every person, male or
female.”— Poverty Bay Independent, N.Z.
“ Totally different from anything else of the
kind which has come under our notice.”— Bruce
Herald, N.Z.
“It is a work which every young man should
read and lay to heart.” —Border Post.
157 Elizabeth Street, Hyde Park, SYDNEY.
)x(
CONSULTATION BY LETTER, J£l.
Medical.
hU
l\
' KRUPP
anic Chain
&u.w
W
o
m
IP so,
DON’T MISS THIS!
What everyone says is bound to be true, and young
and old, rich and poor, physicians who recommend, and
patients who try
The Krupp Galvanic Chain Beit,
All agree in praising that most scientific of Electro
Therapeutical Appliances. For Rheumatism it is un-
rivalled. Lumbago at once succumbs to its power. The
Nervous are strengthened and the Debilitated restored to
perfect health and vigour. In short, the appliance is an
unfailing cure for all Nervous, Sexual, or Chronic Diseases,
and is GUARANTEED to ABSOLUTELY CURE, com-
pletely and lastingly, the following complaints:—
Dyspepsia, Neuralgia, Pains in the Back and Chest,
Lumbago, Catarrh, Rheumatism, Dumb Ague,
Nervous Debility, Paralysis, Kidney Complaint,
Spinal Disease, Female Weakness, Diseases of the
Liver, Impotence, Seminal Weakness, Diabetes,
ciatica, Atrophy, Gout, Indigestion, Asthma, Piles,
Epilepsy Spermatorrhoea, Specks before the Eyes,
Excessive Heart Palpitation, Defective Memory.
An l iilailing Cure For Varicocele.
It is a PORTABLE BODY BATTERY, and contains
special appliances for both sexes; therefore, why waste
your money and health by procuring and taking USELESS
DRUGS ? Electricity, when properly applied, is acknow-
ledged by all leading and unprejudiced physicians to be
the only safe and radical cure for Nervous and Sexual
Diseases, and the thousands of testimonials received by
the Krupp Belt Co. from leading personages throughout
Australasia prove the unquestionable curative properties
of Electricity as applied by the appliance above referred to.
Our confidence in this appliance is so complete, that
we send the Belt out on trial, and guarantee it
to give perfect satisfaction. For full particulars as to
terms, etc., send for our large illustrated treatise, free,
in which these Belts are fully illustrated, the action of
electricity on the nervous system explained, and a lot of
useful information on nervous and sexual diseases given.
This treatise also contains facsimile of testimonials received
from some of our clients who have tried our Belts. The
originals of these testimonials produced on application.
The prices of the Krupp Galvanic Chain Belt and
Suspensory are from £l.
Sole Inventor .. . Carl Krupp.
Business Manager . . A. W. Courtney.
Address all communications to the
Krupp Galvanic Chain Belt Co.,
Box C 47, G.P.0., Sydney, N.S.W.
Remember—The K.G. Chain Belt cures without medicine,
is easy to wear, is sent on approval, and the first cost is
the only cost.
INDISPENSABLE JOE RADIES
AND ALL PERSONS
With a Delicate Shini
MOUSON’S
COCOABUTTESSOAP
Cocoa Butter Soap is a real skin-beautifier, and a bahu to
young and old alike.
MOUSON & CO., PERFUMERS & TOILET SOAP MANUFACTURERS, 'l
FRAN K FOUT-ON-TUB-MAIN E.
LONDON: 32 & 33 lIAMSELL-ST., B.C. PARIS; 29 RUE RADZIWILL.
Full guarantee for perfect purity is offered by the
sole Manufacturers, Mouson & Co.
JULIUS GOLDSCHMIDT & GO.,
231 CLARENCE-ST., SYDNEY,
SOLE AGENTS FOR AUSTRALASIA.
Companies.
The Brilisli anil New South Hales Investment
and rinaiieial t 0., Limited.
Incorporated under the Companies’ Act, 1874.
Capital, £250,000.
Sydney Office; 240 PITT STREET.
“DILLS DISCOUNTED and Immediate Advances granted
4* Daily. Country communications promptly attended
to. The following Kates of Interest are allowed for Fixed
Deposits:—
3 Years
12 Months
6 Months
3 Months
10 per cent.
9 per cent.
8 per cent.
7 per cent.
With a Guaranteed Bonus on Renewals of Twelve Mouths
and over.
By order of the Board.
W. M‘DONALD, Manager.
Ciliuu’ Life Assurance Company,
LIMITED.
Capital £200,000.
Head Office:
21 Ca.stleiea.gh St, Sydney,
With Branches and Agencies throughout the Colonies.
NTew Business:
1887 There were issued 19,537 Policies.
1888 „ „ „ 34,884
1889 „ „ „ 57,388
These figures show the wonderful progress of the
Company and the high esteem placed upon its
liberal dealings by the public.
CLAIMS PAID
Immediately on Proof of Death
JAMES r. GARY AN, \
WM. ALEX. SMITH, f
Managing Director.
Secretary.


Medical,
If
JT\ \
EUREKA
electric belt^
Biteii
rv 4
■ZOr
/irJ
Bss*
AN
\"
A NEVER FAILING CURE FOE ALL
diseases of the neuvous system:.
Complete with Suspensory Appliances from £l. 0. 0 and
upwards. This famous Electric Magnetic Belt will cure
NERVOUS DEBILITY, Seminal Debility, Impotence
am! all weakness caused by indiscretion. J ains in the
Rack, Lumbago, Giddiness, Rheumatism, Kidney and
Bladder complaints, and in fact any disease of the Nervous
System. The currents are steady and constantly felt by
the wearer. It has great improvements over all. other
belts, we are willing to furnish those belts on 30 days
trial, and accept payment after they have proved them-
selves what wo represent them to bo. Those bolts are
made for the specific purpose of producing a continuous
mild, soothing current of electricity through all the weak-
ened parts, restoring them to health and vigorous strength
even the worst case permanently cured in three months’
It is more convenient to wear than any other Belt"
A Book illustrated, containing full information and testi-
monials from prominent people throughout Australia
and informing persons how they may obtain those belts’
without paying for them nnl il they have proved them com-
petent to cure any disease of the Nervous System w'll be
forwarded to any address on receipt of a id stamp for
postage. 0
Address:— VOLTAIC BELT COMPANY
Box 916, G. 1\ 0., SvoNiiv.
Dr. Jantes IX Llewellyn,
(registered)
SPECIALIST in
GENITO-UEIMBY DISEASES,
May be CONSULTED at
—3 25 LONSDALE STREE T—
(between Swanston <k Elizabeth Sts ),
MELBO U R N E.
<3T .Consulting Honrs—lo to 2; 7to 9. Sunday
Mornings, 10 to 11.
All Persona] Consultations are free; by letter the
Fee is £l, which is inclusive of medicines.
for the
lAu elegant dressing ex-
quisitely perfumed, re-
moves all impurities from
the sculp, prevents bald-
ness and pray hair, and causes Hie hair to grow
Thick. Soft and Beautiful, Infallible for curing
eruptions, diseases of tho skin, glands and muscles,
and quickly healingents, burns, bruises, sprains, &c.
Caution. —None genuine without the trade-mark of
Barclay & Co., New York, affixed to each bottle.
o
o
n
BarrtS
Pearl
Cream
forthi
COMPLEXIOM
Imparts to the darkest skin a clear, natural white,
tinged with the faintest rose-blush. Speedily removes
Wrinkles, Freckles, Sunburn and Tan, and mantles
the faded cheek with youthful bloom and beauty.
CAUTION.— None genuine without the trade mark
of Barclay & Co., New York, affixed to each bottle
A BLESSING IN EVERY FAMILY.
HOLLOWAY’S PILLS AND OINTMENT.
There is not a country in the civilised world where
the healing virtues of thea re grand medicines have not been
recognised by thousands of sufferers, la all the ordinary
ailments of humanity their beneficent action is at once
recognised. Fullest directions are supplied for their use
in every disease. IF YOU SUFFER, TRY THEM. Manu-
factured only at 76 New Oxford-st., London, rgp* p ur .
chasers should look to the Label on the Boxes and Pots
it the address is not 523 Oxford-street, London, they are
spurious. J
LOONG SHAN TEA HOUSE
NOW OPEN.
Quong Tart «Sz o<o.’ss
EXTENSIVE NEW PREMISES,
(Nearly opposite Theatre Royal).
FIRST-CLASS GRILLS,
As well as all kinds of Refreshments, may
be obtained from 7.30 a.m. to 11.30 p.m.
CUP OF DELICIOUS TEA.
ICED DRINKS OF ALL KINDS, &c.
The rooms are splendidly furnished and
fitted up. In addition to the large and
well - appointed Refreshment' Rooms,
gentlemen will find on the Second Floor
Commodious and Comfortable - Smoking
and Conversation Rooms, furnished with
Chess, Draughts, &c., &c.
' TO THE LADIES.
On the First Floor will be found Nice
Private Room for Ladies, convenient for
Writing', Reading, &e., also Retiring
Rooms and Lavatory, with both hot and
cold water laid on. Inspection Invited,
Finest Teas imported—Packets 11b. and
upwards supplied. Orders promptly at-
tended to.
137 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
Q
V
o
N
G
T
A
R
T
&
C
o
M
P
A
N
vr
Q
U
o
N
G
T
A
K
T
&
C
o
M
P
A
N
Y
Medical.
A
Beecham’s Pills
Are universally admitted
to lie worth a Guinea
a flo.v for bilious
and nervous disorders,
sucli as wind and pain in
the stomach, sick head-
ache, giddiness, fulness
and swelling after meals,
dizziness, and drowsiness,
cold chills, flushings of
heat, loss of - appetite,
shortness of breath, cos-
tiveness, scurvy, blotches
on the skin, disturbed
sleep, frightful dreams,
and all nervous and trem-
bling sensations, &c, The
first dose will giv e relief
in twenty minutes. lv erv
Ruffei-m* in infiiy minutes. jv erv
Pills, and b ° X *
C S$4
HI
yte
Worth a Guinea a Box.
a/? /® a i 6S of ? U , a K e * these Pills are invaluable,
brin- ,w d 0?, e V f * t U:ni Carr -V' off all humors, and
br that __ ls required. No female should
cniinl t? S,™-., There is no medicine to be found
obstVnrfi™, tfIyECTIAM S PILLS for removing any
S r ? n r e ”? n|:! ’ o£ the system. If taken ac-
soon Jl . thc / I "'T glven with each, box they will
lip'dtn CS '’°i f )' r ' K; ‘i CS aU a B'es to so«nd and robust
t.p'Cd'V 11 “; s ,C ? H Proved by thousands who have
use U> J tou,,d 110 tenefifs which are ensured by
r weal f stomacli, impaired digestion and all disorders
hp tlley i lcfc llkG “ MAGIC,” and a few doses will
~, . to work wonders upon the most important
wf?Ai 111 , human machine. They strengtlien the
uJioleniuscnkir system, restore the long-lost complexion,
odge of a PP e tite, and arouse into ac-
t on with the ROSEBUD of health the whole physical
eneigy of the human frame. These are “ FACTS ” testified
meml)e,s of all classes of society; and
fib! t e >»est gnarantees to the nervous and debilitated
is, Beecham s Pills have the largest sale of any patent
medicine in the world. J 1
Beecham’s Magic Cough Pills.
a<^ s f° r Coughs in general, Asthma, Bronchial
A flections, Hoarsens-ss, Shortness of Breath, Tightness
and Oppression of the Chest, Wheezing, &c., these Pills
stand unrivalled. They are the best ever offered to the
public and ill speedily remove that sense of oppression
and difficulty of breathing which nightly deprive the
patient of rest. Let any person give Bbecitam’s Cough
1 ILLS a trial and the most violent Cough will in a
short time lie removed.
Prepared only and sold wholesale and retail by the pro-
prietor, Thomas Beecham, Chemist, St. Helens, Lancashire,
England, in boxes at Is. 1.1(1. and 2s. 9d. each.-—Sold by
all Druggists and Patent Medicine Dealers everywhere.
N. 11.—Full directions are given with each box.
CONSULT PROFESSOR SELBY,
376 Cleveland Street, Surry Hills, Sydney,
Personally or by letter on Chronic Complaints
of the Nervous System, Diseases of the Urinary
Organs and all Impurities of the Blood. A Positive
Cure in all cases amendable to treatment. Suf-
ferers should read tin* l'rofes;or’s valuable treatise,
sent post free to all who send their address. It
contains Advice on Marriage, worth its weight
in gold.
£ PPS’S
GEATEF OL—COMFORTING
o
Dr. westcott’s amenorrhcea
PILLS for Ladies, when taken for a few
days before, cxuickly correct all irregularities
from whatever cause arising ; 2s. 9d. and 4s. 6d..
by post 3s. and ss. W. H. SOUL and CO., 1:0
Pitt-street, Sydney, Agents.
Musical.
IN G HAM’S
PAfEHT SCALE INSTRUCTOR
FOR THE —
PIAILOPOETE,
PUPILS can obtain the above at once, and the b.vt
way to illustrate its usefulness to them is to s . ■
pose a man to live to be a hundred years old and nevi r
to have seen a Piano, he would, with five minutes’
instruction, be able to play the most difficult Major and
Minor Scales on the instrument.
c o
Miscellaneous.
WA. LEWIS, old-established Private Detective,
■ for the discovery of Missing Friends, tracing
Absconders, watching Suspected Persons, and prosecuting
all kinds of Private and Confidential Enquiries ; obtaining
Evidence in Divorce, Libel, Fraud, Digamy, Breach of
Promise ; extracts from or Copies of Wills, or Certificates
of Births, Marriages or Deaths obtained in any part of the
world. Bankrupt Schedules Filed, £l, by a'legal gentle-
man duly admitted and practising in all the courts of
N.S.W., who may he consulted at my office on all legal
work. Consultation Free. Kents and Debts Collected,
Distress Warrants issued, steady and trustworthy Bailiffs
employed, and all moneys received are promptly accounted
for. W. A. LEWIS cautions the public against'so-called
old-established private detective agencies, as he is con-
nected with no agents in Sydney." An intelligent, well-
trained staff of Male and Female Assistants retained,
capable, when necessary, of assuming any character in
life —from a newspaper" hoy to a clergyman, or from a
servant girl to a lady. Terms Moderate. Consultation
Free. Address—
Pikknix Chambers, 158 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
[Telephone 723.
Sydney Canister Works,
COLLINS STREET, SURRY HILLS,
OFF CKOWN STREET.
Manufacturersof allkinds of Tinsfor Confectioners)
Tea Merchants, Biscuit Makers, &c., also all kinds
of Tins, round and square, for Pepper, Spice and
Baking Powder, made by improved machinery.
-£&. TTarxetl Solicited..
QtPECIAL NOTICE. —The Sydney Bulletin.
O Tasmanian Edition Publishers, FITZ-
GERALD BROS. Subscription (payable strictly
in advance). Six Shillings and Sixpence per quar-
ter, cr One Pound per annum.
The Bulletin will be on Sale every Friday at
the Office, George Street, Launceston, or from the
Runners in the street.
Business Announcements
riIHE BANK OF NEW ZEALAND,
JL '• X Sydney Bit anci tics ;
04 PITT STK EET, and OEOKGE STREET.
Paid-up Capital £1,425,000
The Bank has Agents in all the principal cities
throughout the United States of America and
Canada, and can offer special facilities for dealing
in Bullion, Bills of Exchange, Commercial and
Travellers’ Bettors of Credit.
! hafts issued and Bills collected on most favour-
able terms, at rates which can be ascertained on
application.
AT QCUIIS A FAMILY HOTEL.
First-class Acwmuioiiativn .for Tourists and families
'Vires and Letters to be addressed “ Proprietor.”
Arrangements can be made to provide transit for persons
wishing to view the celebrated Jeiioian 6'sivch and
el her places of interest.
N. E. -UTBBlN..Manager.
JOSEPH HIM MO.
ò
w.
&
*
A
V
EVERY
DESCRIPTION
HAIR WORK DOME
PRIVATE.
R'O'O M S
FOR LADIES
22 12 4\
ROYAL A RCA
MELBOURNE
J. SITTJEHLIN,
FROM PARIS,
Ladies’ Hairdresser. Wigmaker, 2s Perfumer,
25 SYDNEY ARCADE, SYDNEY.
HISTORICAL AND FANCY HAIRDRESSING A
SPECIALTY.
Manufacturer of All Kinds of Theatrical
and Street Wigs.
AmulOHiated (Inmine,
The most efficient Hair Lotion, to prevent prema-
_ tore baldness.
Sitterlin's Vegetable Hair-dye,
The only Hair-dye in the colonies to restore Light
Hair to its natural colour. All shades.
3ta.csCse>ss Q-o.arasxteed,.
MANUFACTURING HATTERS
GEORGE STREET
SYDNEY
IMPORTERS OF AILTHE
NEWESTSHAPES.
And at ALBERT STREET, BRISBANE.
All OH'S
r
r
V -V
m
ò
3%
&
j\VCH
INC
fA
*y
PO
»
m*
*1
MANUFACTURED 6Y
rrt'.iuiuu cy : J
JjJM£S C///UV/VOA/ tSf/arUvrS*
Sold. Ltj all SstoCLC/ud ft SSoreAeefie/'o J
Business Announcements.
THREE GREAT LIGHTSf
The Needles Patent Gas-making Machine;
Tho Maryey Patent Safety Kerosene Lamp;
And the New Era Portable Gas Lamp.
The Harvey Lamp has been adopted by the
Railway Commissioners for lighting the Sydney
trains. VV o wore awarded the Highest Order of
Merit and Special Mention by experts at the
late _ Melbourne (exhibition for our lighting
mediums. Over 6000 Harvey Lamps are in use
in this colony, ami for all lighting purposes are
giving universal satisfaction. These Lamps can
bo seen on_ one of the North Shore ferry-boats,
and arc suitable for all classes of vessels. The,
Inventor offers £2OO to anyone producing as good
a Kerosene Burner.
Patentees for Australasia;
H. T. Smith & Co-, 494 Kent St. South, Sydney;
14 Arcr.de, Adklaiob, S.A.; Argent Street, llrok kn Hill;
Parkside Iron Works, Mklboiirnb.
The Cheapest and Best Horsefeed
IN NFAV .SOUTH WALES.
CHA d I*l ON OATEN CHAFF!
Fill.MF OATEN CHAFF!
LUCERNE CHAFF!
MIXED CHAFF!
Gup own Couiry. Fresh every day.
Buy from_v.s nnd save money. ISH
City Prodiice Company,
STEAM CHAFF-CUTTERS.
HAY STKEET, JIAYMARKET.
! jEt.oaLCl I "E=£.ejauc3L !
“ THE BULLETIN’S ”
History of Botany Bay,
By Arthur Lay 11.
Profusely Illustrated by The Bulletin’s well*
known Artists,
L. HOPKINS and PHIL MAY.
Frice - Oae
Per post, Is. 3d.
Hotels.
PFAHLEirr S HOTEL,
SYDNEY; NS.W.,
Opposite the Park, W/nyard Square.
(Under New Management.)
rpHIS for 25 years well-known First-class Central Hotel,
' recently thoroughly renovated throughout, has every
comfort and attention of a home. The Cuisine Department
is under competent French supervision. Dining Hoorn
open for Non-Residents. Open-air Recreation Garden.
A well-ventilated Billiard Room adjoining Recreation
Ground (three Alcock’s best Tables), under the manage-
ment of A. Buckingham, late of Empire Hotel. Wines,
and Spirits of the very best quality only, and the Finest
and Coolest Bar in Town
HOT AND COLD BATHS.
23T" NIGHT PORTER. French
German
Telephone No. 150. Halims
Spoken.
SPECIAL SUITES FOR FAMILIES.
CHAS. HECHT ... Managed.
Mr. and Mrs. Thomas Asche
Beg to inform their Friends and Patrons that,
in addition to other recent improvements at the
EOYAL HOTEL,
a first : class . HYDRAULIC ELEVATOR has
been erected for the convenience of Visitors,
rendering it the most complete and comfortable
house in Sydney ; and with the personal and un-
ceasing attention of Mr. and Mrs. Asche in every
detail of management, they rely on the continued
patronage of their many old friends, whose kindly
recommendation of the ROYAL HOTEL to their
friends will be esteemed.
THE GEORGE HOTEL
(opposite Railway Station, near Baths),
St. Victoria.
First-class Family & Commercial Hotel.
For particulars, apply to
S’. "W.T3S«a:^»OX.3E3,
PROPRIETOR.
ST A N f) A iTIT If(>TEL~
CA'STLEREACI [ and BATHURST STREETS
Thoroughly renovated throughout.
First-cl a s accommodation for Country Visitors.
Gr. BO\NE ... ... Proprietor.
AO OL D I 1! N sHAN; T Y
Price One Shilling.
Australian stories and sketches is prose and versa
• —BY—
“BULLETIN ” WRITERS.


LAS
|«HDHUr9N^
FRiwv>cpoc?mi:j
paRMITURiWNDiICTtD
AUCTIONEERS A ESTATE AGENTS
: iff-jfr-.ttJKTU zn^in
BATI.EE & CO.,
Obneual Alctioaeeks axd E.tatk Agents,
:Vis t'olllns Slreer, JHolhoiirne, and 14 Miupci
Street, South Varra.
UMBRELLAS
RE-COVERED.
C TUDIf ECONOMY
and
Have your Umbrella Frames
Re-Covered, and your
Parasols Re-Lined and made
Equal to New, at
J. StriiLl V AN’S,
541 George Street,
BRicKriKLD Hill, Sydnkv,
between
Liverpool if Bathurst Sts .
Parasols made to match Cos-
tumes. Repairs neatly done.
o
Acknowledged
The Best
WALLACH BROS.’
IKTETW
FURNITURE
WAREHOUSES,
York Street, Wynyard Square, Sydney,
Now supply the General Public as well as the Trade,
10,000 Bedsteads,
From lOs. €3c3L -tcz £35.
n x f
§s
o
H. R. Leach,
SHOCKSHOR TO .
GB. MODINI, Gunmaker, informs his Customers
■ and the Public in general that he has the largest
assortment of Firearms in the colony. Qualities and prices
to defy competition. Guns by the following celebrated
gunmakers J. Purdev & Sons, Cn. Boswell, John Hinny
and 00., Joseph Lano & Sons, Git. Osborne & Co., Thomas
Bland & Son. A large assortment of v arious other makers
always on hand, viz., W. W. Greener, Scott, Weblev,
Hollis & Sons, KileV and Cashmoee. All goods will be
faithfully guaranteed at 602 George-Street, Sydney.
Price list on application.
°3? 3a. o too. sl s JEtoss,
TOBACCO &. CIGAR IMPORTER,
27 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY,
(Corner of Pitt Street.)
A large stock of Genuine SSavannali Cigars, of the
choicest Brands to select from.
Sole Importer of the Celebrated “ Fl»r «!«• Btouito”
Brand of Cigars and “ Umpire Cigarettes.”
Palls H ridge Pamily Hotel.
Falls Bridge, Melbourne.
This magnificent Hotel, containing 50 Double
and Single Rooms, is splendidly furnished and
perfectly ventilated.
Hot and Cold Plunge and Shower Baths.
Electric Bells. Telephone 1217 Billiards, &c.
Terms Strictly Moderate.
J. H. DURRANT Manager
Late of the South Australian Club Hotel, Adelaide.
Free IPrescriptions
Are to be found in the “Light and Life,’
for the Speedy Cure of Nervous Debility and
Kindred Diseases, &c. A copy of this book will
be sent Free, sealed, for Six Penny Stamps.
Address
S. WARD Ss CO., SYDNEY PHARMACY,
76 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
J
tr
91111
Knowles' I’liiups.
PARKE & LACY GO.,
MINING & HYDRAULIC ENGINEERS
AND
GENERAL MACHINERY MERCHANTS,
&c., Sec., &c.
187 & 189 Clarence Street,
SYDNEY, KT.S.W.
And SAN FRANCISCO, CALIFORNIA.
•>.»n ir!n;| ,)suoi|Sil; ii
TANGYES, LIMITED
ENGINES,
2 to 50 h.p.
BOILEKS,
1 to 35 H.r.
STEAM PUMPS
For all purposes.
cmimi mss,
2" to 40" discharge.
HAND PUMPS,
Saw Benches.
Latlaea.
DRItLIHE MAKES,
An,, Ao.
■
.
A-
V
■ '
&Irm (T)t n Lij
Hay St., Haymarket, Sydney,
WINDING ENGINES.
Hauling Engines.
Batterv Erujincw.
V O
Saw-mill Engines.
nOVB-tfllL ENGINES,
engines
FOR
Electric Lighting.
Vertical Boilers.
Multitahlar Boilers,
4 OEC>I*M ISHIi CliS.
&o„ &c.
We invite al those requiring
128, 131,
of any kind for any purpose, large or small, to write for particulars and prices. From the extent of our stock we are generally able to give immediate delivery
isitors, whether buyers or not, are always welcome to inspect the magnificent display in our new and extensive Showrooms *
133 & 135 HAY STREET, YMARKET, SYDNEY.
