

AITKEN’S
ALE. “DICKENS’” WHISKY.
X
HE
LIFE BUOY BRAND.
BEST ll* THE MARKET.
USED BY THE LATE CHARLES DICKENS,
AND SUPPLIED TO THE PRINCIPAL CLUBS IN SUBNET.
Harrison & Attwood, 251 George-st., Sydney.
Sole
nts for IKT Soutb Wales.
ROBERTS’ HOTEL,
street Street, &~ZTTZI.<T^2ir.
UNRIVALLED ACCOMMODATION.
-
otol, HBu-lli.
«Bulli Fass.” .** Look-Out.”
DISTANCE FROM SYDNEY, 42 MILES.
“ TT'SnpAk.izi.s Well.”
HORSES AND VEHICLES ON HIRE.
“ Xiocidoxi Wat er falls.”
EVERY ACCOMMODATION.
Wl. DICKSON
Proprietor.
* :
TH B
R OVA L
EDINBURGH
CASTLE"
SpecialReser ve
* * *
m
OLD
sg
ISCOTCHWHISKY
at •
ROYAL
Edinburgh Castle
WHISKY.
* * *
Special Eeserve.
In Square Bottles.
This Whisky was
selected by our Gene-
ral Manager, Mr. Jas.
Cullen, during his
recent visit to Scot-
land, and through its
purity, age and mag-
nificent bouquet, has
already secured the
premier position inthe
market. Incases,qrs.
and octaves. To be
had Duty Paid from
any of the Wholesale
Wine and Spirit Mer-
chants and Distribu-
ting Houses, and in
Bond only from the
SOLE AGENTS,
William Campbell k Co M Limited*,.
58 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
Tttylopßro 3
HIGHLY NUT RITJVE
Coeoa
"MAY BE UHIAINEU IN LABELLED UNS UK PACKETS THRQUGHOUTTHE COLONY.
Abi
vV
Grand Novelty ! Grand Novelty!
FOB MARKING
LINEN. PAPER, ENVELOPES, &o.
Special AXoziograzns.
New System, more perfect than the Rubber. New
Invention. Prizes from the New Orleans (U.S.) and
Melbourne Exhibitions. Prices. —Medium Monograms,
with box and bottle of Indelible Ink for marking Linen,
Paper, Collars, Cuffs, and Handkerchiefs, Price four
shillings. Larger Monograms, price in proportion.
L. Shrager, 19 Macquaris-Plaoe, Op. Exchange,
J. & C. HOWARD.
Howard’s Colonist 3-Furrow Digging
Clough.-(8.Z.0.L)
Howard’s Slagle-Furrow Digging
Plough.—(o.l.)
Tlie Plough, of file Times!
ploughing and harrowing in one act.
Share Points only cost 6d., and are Reversible.
Chaff-Cutters, Horse Gears and every kind yf Agricultural Implements
huest stock:.
C3f“ Enquirers please quote this paper.
2805 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
(Corner of Put and Bathurst Streets).
TZE-CIH]
LONDON & SYDNEY TEA COMPANY,
409 Kent Street;, SYDKTB Y.
HIGH-CLASS TEAS,
Packed in 201 b. and 401 b. Packages,
At Is. Gel., Is. 9d. ami 2s. per lib.
New Customers please enclose Remittance or
Reference.
Speciality; A Single Package at Wholesale Price.
'Nh
k
m
mm
iy-
OUR BLENDER AT AVORK ON INDIA AND OHIN \
The Bulletin
Yol. 11—No. 637.]
[Saturday, May 31, 1890.


TOBACCO
*ll
Bit
i
DIXSON*SONS
Customs Returns.
American Leaf.
Dixson and Sons consumed in 1888, 52,592 lbs.
more, and in 1889 (over 44 tons) 98,939 lbs. more
American Leaf than all the rest of New South
Wales put together.
DIXSON’S TOBACCOS having the largest
sale of any in Australia are—
OU£
'p
*
a
o
33
o
X
v
O
9ov\
SIR ROGER
Dr. RIDGE’S
FOOD
FOE INFANTS AND INVALIDS
Has an enormous sale in England
and is now' being introduced into the
Colonies.
Every Storekeeper should get a supply
•s every Wise mother will certainly
use it.
DK., RIDGE’S ROYAL FOOD MILLS,
LONDON, ENGLAND.
iDOßssq;
SATIN
r XADIES'
'•Hilobe^'S.
! TflUN | iS* C4C
gqgTOjj
BROWN’S
SATIN
POLISH
-FOB-
LADIES’ AND CHILDREN’S
BOOTS AND SHOES.
Awarded highest honors at
Phila., 1876 Melbourne, 1880
Berlin, 1877’ Frankfort, 1881
Paris, 1878 Amsterd’m 1883
New Orleans, 1884-85, and wherever
exhibited.
Paris medal on every bottle.
Beware of Imitations.
This Blacking is in liquid lorra and is applied to shoes
or other articles of leather by means of a sponge, attached
to the cork by a wire, so that the blacking can be used by
anyone without soiling the fingers. No polishing brush
is required. It dries immediately after being applied, and
will not soil the most delicate clothing.
Sold largely in'Australia through Gommission Merchants
and Dealers.
B. P. BROWN & CO.,
Boston, U.S.A., M’f’gs.
THE BALLARAT COFFEE PALACE,
Ltdiard Street, Ballarat.
VISITORS to the Golden City will find every
convenience at the above Establishment.
The Only Coffee Palace in Ballarat..
MODERATE CHARGES.
REID & SONS
Proprietors.
ATKINSON'S
ENGLISH PERFUM
ERY
surpasses all others for its natural
fragrance.
Atkinson’s Celebrated
EAU DE COLOGNE
Is Unequalled for its Strength and
Delightful Fragrance. It far sur-
passes the numerous oompounds sold
under the same name.
Of all Dealers and of the Manufacturer*—
J. & E. ATKINSON,
24, OLD BOND STREET, LONDON.
s. Trade Mark—“ White Rose” on "Golden
Lyre,” with Address in full.
THOMAS MCREERY:
MEDICAL HERBALIST,
33 Oxford Street, 4 doors above Riley Street.
Private Diseases of Both Sexes a Speciality,
Consultations Gratis. Charges very Moderate.
A Trial Solicited.
A SPEEDY CUBE GUARANTEED.
WILLIAMS’
AUSTRALIAN YEAST POWDER
IS THE ONLY PERFECT SUBSTITUTE FOR YEAST.
Breaa, Tea Cakes, Pastry, &c.,
ARK
Light, Wholesome and Digestible
WHEN MADE WITH
’Williams 9 Australian Y east Powder.
FOR THE TOWN, THE BUSH, AND THE SEA.
Beware of Worthless Imitations. Sold in Tins at 6d. the Half-Pound
CLARENDON HOTEL, MANLY,
The Brighton of New South Wales.
AT the CLARENDON HOTEL, Banquets, Suppers, Private Dinners, Evening Parties, etc., are
served on the Shortest Notice in the Large Dining Hall. Besides having a most recherche
Dinner vou can enjoy from the balconies the magnificent view of the sea and surrounding country ;
here also you can have good company, good wines—in fact, everything that can possibly make one
comfortable can be found at this really first-class hotel. Fishing and Picnic Parties provided. Table
dcHote at One o’clock daily and Sundays. No expense is spared by Mrs. Kilminsteb to make her
i isitors comfortable and her Hotel the best in the colony.
Mrs. TTTT .Tvri:i\rS-j. J JuFt. Clarendon ECotel,
Opposite OCEAN BEACH, MANLY,
Jj'D’WIN G GOEETZ,
Stock and Share Broker,
PIUAUCIAL
BRISBANE
Member of the Brisbane Stock Exchange.
68 Hunter Street, and 8 Bligh Street,
SYDNEY.
p. SHEOBDBE
LIVERY, BAIT, LET-OUT AND COMMIS-
SION STABLES.
Horses and Vehicles of every description for
Sale or Hire; also, good reliable Ladies or Gentle-
men’s Hacks.
THE
Wolseley Sheep - Shearing* Machine.
PASTORALISTS are notified that, to avoid disappointment
no time should be lost in Booking Orders for next Season'
Agents: J. H. GEDDES & C 0.,
19 PHILLIP STREET, SYDNEY.
CiM'iJ-'g'Eilf. l-TOSi liW
✓ O
0/y
%
D
vl>
\l/
:0
e
H^
FFICES
.V/croß/A.
Chaffejr Irrigation Offices, Swanstcn Street,
_ South Australia,.
.Cavendish Chambers. Grenfell Street.
J, f. Mathew Vincent, (Chief Commissioner)
Cornwall Buildings, 35 Queen Victoria St.
UONDONE. C-
s-t. Kilda, Victoria.
Within Five Minutes from STATION, and One Minute from ESPLANADE and DATES.
MRS. KONG MENG ... ... ... Proprietress.
ţ
Purchasers should see that the Label on every bottle of the original
WORCESTERSHIRE SAUCE
bears the Signature, thus
Or
Ask for Lea & Perrins’ Sauce, and see Name on Wrapper, Label, Pottle and Stopper.
Wholesale and for Export by the Proprietors, Worcester; Crosse & Blackwell, London, so. , sc. ;
and by Grocers and Oilmen throughout the World.
—Everyone should Read-
“HISTORY of BOTANY BAY,”
By irt Gr A-YLL.
Profusely Illustrated by “ The Bulletin’s” well-known Artists, L. Hopkins and Phil May.
ONE SHILLING; per Post, Is. 3d.
Price
May be had from Agents, or direct from “ The Bulletin ” Office.
A r puts- Victorian : A. Benjamin. 321 Little Collins Street Ehst, Melbourne ; Tasmanian : Fitzgerald Brothers, George Street..
Launceston : Queensland : J. H. Thompson, George Street, Brisbane,


Business Announcements.
BEAIiE & COMPANY’S
K ! ;'7.
ny
f/'i;
(":;i
as
m
&
i
1
&
imu!
r“-»fncvt aVC
■
’ r 4 V-
our new snow rooms and head offices,
482 and 4-84 George Street,
SYDNEY.
A RABICAL REFORM.
“Oh, I feel so Mondayish !” exclaims the housemother
at her breakfast tabic on the Monday morning. _ Although
the above absurd adjective is not to be found in the dic-
tionary, yet -every woman well knows its meaning when
she looks forward to the teeming, steaming, boiling, toil-
ing, temper-trying, hateful washing day. The house is
thrown out of joint, oilier weekly duties are, as far as
possible, set aside, the children kept out of the way, a cold
dinner for the family, and a warm reception for anyone 1
who intrudes to waste time and to prolong the agony.
Happy, indeed, is the home where “washing day” is a
thing of the past. Every busy, hard-pressed mother
knows the wretchedness and gloom which the present
washing day brings down upon the household. In the
early morning all is prepared for the all important washer-
woman, timed to arrive for an early breakfast, and then
to attack the week or fortnight’s batch of soiled linen.
The good-natured husband readily excuses a hastily-pre-
pared breakfast, for he hopes it may betoken the speedy
ending of tire dreadful day. The children are packed off
to school, and then begins in earnest the strife between
the housewife, anxious to get everything finished in good
time, and the professional laundress, equally anxious to
make the work last over two days. With the greatest
impartiality the laundress divides her attention between
the discussion of light refreshments and the very latest
gossip, the intervals of time being filled up with a gentle
application to her special functions
Very many of our valued customers to whom we have i
supplied labor-saving appliances in the past, do their own
washing. In every family, in our climate, frequent
changes of underclothing are necessary. Then there are
th'e house linen, the cotton dresses, white coats, and
outer garments; and all this is heaped up for the poor
hotxse-mother to cleanse, perhaps with the assistance of a |
daughter, if there is one old enough. It is not that the
husband, who alsc works hard, is unkind. Expenses are
many, economy is imperative, days of depression and of
trouble must be provided against. So the washing is to
be done, and the wife ipust do it; and after the imperfect
rest of a sultry night, as she gets ready the breakfast upon
a hot Monday morning, she feels for a while that her lot
is cheerless; that the apportionment of toil is beyond her
share and beyond her strength ; that somehow a change
should be made. No wonder that fair young girls, after a
few years of married life, become worn-looking, and that
they age faster than they ought. The husband is willing
enough to cherish the good wife’s comeliness, and to make
her lot easy, but how ? She does not complain, only says
she feels always “ tired '
Now, as purveyors of household Implements, we nave
long seen our opportunity to enlarge our business by
introducing a thoroughly efficient Washing and Mangling
Machine. Both these services must be combined in the
one article. This we have-most perfectly and assured.y
accomplished. The demon of the washing day is not
scotched but killed
We resolved to introduce nothing until absolutely certain
bv observation, experiment, and test, that the implement
would be a success. There are hosts of Washing Machines.
The vast majority are childish fads, are injurious, or arc
useless, We say and we prove that the Beale Patent
Washer will save in labour of washing in proportion as our
Hewing Machines do in sewing. And in a higher degree,
tor the washing by hands is so much the more laborious.
The Beale Patent Washer may he described as follows :
The vertical tub is very carefully made, with fluted sides.
It is stationary, only the water and the clothes being
agitated by an accurately shaped “ dolly,” which is worked
by a fly-wheel. The clothes are simply dropped in, no
arrangement or packing being wanted. The special
reversing gear moves this dolly swiftly backwards and for-
wards, a!nd a very small expenditure of strength suffices
to lash the water' into a mass of foaming suds. In the
process the clothes are floated to and fro, up and down ,
currents and cross-currents of water are formed, which
meet and are forced through and through the fabric,
carrying away every particle of dirt and stain. The linen,
being merely suspended in the water, is not rubbed and
scrubbed as in hand-washing. Neither has anything to
submit to the hand-wringing process, which insensibly
rips, tears, and wears the clothes. Thus the most delicate
fabrics cannot lie torn by our system of washing. Every -
one has noticed that their clothes seem to be as much
worn by washing as by use. This is caused by the fierce
rubbing they get upon washing boards, or by the hands.
With the Beale Patent Washing Machines this friction is
Hone away with. Therefore, the clothes will last far longer
than by hand-washing, however careful. When the wasli-
ino- is done, the tui) should he wiped out, so that it be
always sweet and clean. There is no false bottom, and
nothing to accumulate greasy sediments.
When ycm buy a Machine of any kind,
Slave a g’ood one.
Beale & Company
482 & 484 George Street,
SYDNEY.
We have erected new Show-rooms, Offices, and
Warehouses, at No. 482 and 484, George-street,
Sydney, opposite Central Markets, and near to
the Royal Arcade. These are the loftiest com-
mercial buildings in the city, and can be seen from
all parts of the city and adjacent suburbs. Ibe
Showrooms are the largest and finest in the
Southern Hemisphere, for the due display or the
splendid Hapsburg Pianos, Haydn Organs, and
Beale Patent Sewing Machines.
All goods may be had upon easy time-payment,
nr for cash less three shillings in the ppund.
Photographs, price-lists, and samples free by
post.
No matter where you live, we will rmpply you
with a Piano, Organ, Harmonium, Sewing Machine
or Washing Machine, upon easy time-payment.
Branches and Travellers throughout New South
Wales and Queensland.
Business Announcements*
H
J
1TJL X .Xi «J 1'
MERCHANT and IMPORTER,
22 & 24 Clarence Street
(Comer Margaret St.),
SYDNEY.
2, St. James’ Buildings
(WIELIAM STREET)
MELBOURNE.
IF" s
RELIABLE
Buggies.
gs I
fms
Hig“h-Oiass Biaffffi® 8 ) Flaaetons,
Wag'g'osas amcl Harness.
m x i \ x
■' V\/ V \
Farm Waggons,
Express Waggons.
For One and Two Passengers.
ť
, K oNjfAV NS/,
3 H X
fiSJiifiHsaa
■, K
Pfi
s-
-5M
fc:.
/V
V ;
CLARENCE
SYDNEY.
AGENTS
in New South Wales.
TRIUMPH
of The Qo_qo 3 PIRjJ ove
Used in hospitals throughout the world in
best Trench Brandy. TRY
r Bad.
preference to
IT.
YOU SHOULD USE
LA.RMER’3
CELEBRATED
HEALTH-GIVING
INVIGORATING TONIC.
It is used and endorsed by all Physicians
1 ecause it is the best.
[t is superior to all other Tonics.
For the Liver, Kidneys and Blood it has
no equal;
It is wonderful as a Flesh Producer.
It is the best remedy for VYasting Diseases,
Sick Headaches, Bilious Complaints, Fever,
and Ague, Neuralgia, &c.
Price, 2s 6d and ss; By post, Is extra.
PREPARED ONLY BY
CAINS & CO., Chemists,
■7B KING STREET.
For Sale by all Chemists
M. W. & Co.
CARLSBAD
NATURAL MINERAL WATERS
are now Imported In bottles and used In treat-
ment of CHRONIC GASTRIC CATARRH, HYPER-
EMIA of the LIVER, GALL STONES, CHRONIC
CONSTIPATION, DIABETES, RENAL CALCULI,
GOUT, and diseases of the spleen arising from
residence in the tropics or malarious districts.
THE NATURAL
CARLSBAD SPRUDEL-SALT
In small and frequent doses Is an efficient
DIURETIC,but as an APERIENT it should be taken
BEFORE BREAKFAST, in doses of from 1 to 2 tea-
spoonfuls, dissolved in water. To Increase the
APERIENT action of the Carlsbad Mineral Water,
a teaspoonful of the Salt, previously dissolved
In water should be added.
SOLE CONSIGNEES for the U.K. and the Colonies
INGRAM 4 ROYLE, 82, Farringdon St., London,
And of all Chemists throughout the World.
The Natural Mineral Waters of
{STATE
SPRINGS .)
0033
GRANDE-GRILLE. —For Affections of the
Liver, Biliary Organs, &c.
CELESTINS.— For the Kidneys, Gravel, Gout
Rheumatism, Diabetes, &c.
HOPITAL. —For Stomach Complaints.
HADTERIYE. —An excellent Table Water.
OF ALU CHEMISTS IN AUSTRALASIA.
A. MELVIN and SONS’
Edinburgh Pale Ale.
11.1
SEND TO
HENRY KIKTG,
SCENIC and PORTRAIT PHOTOGRAPHER.
316 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
- FOR—
Catalogue of the most Complete Series of Views to
he obtained in Australia,
Jenolan Caves, Hawkesbury and Nepean Rivers,
Blue Mountains, Harbour and Coast Views,
Victorian and New Zealand Views.
Groups of Australian Aboriginals and South Sea
Island Natives, &c., &c.
Medical.
DR. SPEER’S
AMERICAN DISPENSARY
31 York Street.
P.O. Box 920.
Dr. Speer is a regular Graduated Physician, educated at
Harvard College, U.S. (for confirmation see New Zealand
Gazette, January 21st, 1886; also New South Wales
Gazette, April 17th, 1888). The doctor has devoted U
years to the study of CHRONIC, NERVOUS, AND
SPECIAL DISEASES. Four of these were in the leading
hospitals of the United States, which enables him to treat
all complaints with excellent results. All applying to
him will receive his honest opinion of their complaints.
No experimenting ;no Mercury used. He will guarantee
a positive cure in every case he undertakes, or forfeit
£2OO. His reason for doing so is this—when there is no
organic disease, and nothing but an inorganic trouble, or,
in other words, a conglomeration of symptoms producing
a certain result, there is no reason why it cannot be re-
moved w ith the proper remedies,.therefore he guarantees,
lie w ishes II distinctly understood that he does not claim
to perform impossibilities, or to have miraculous power
he claims only to be a skilled and successful physician
thoroughly informed in his speciality—CHßONlC and
SPECIAL DISEASES OF MEN AST) WOMEN. People
residing at a distance can, by explaining their troubles in
detail be treated at home. The course of treatment will
not in any way interfere with their business. Examina-
tion and advice free to all. Charges moderate. H. J.
Speer, M D., 31 York-strect, Sydney. Post Office Box,
No. 920. Office hours, 10 a.m. o 12 a.m. 2to land/
to 8 p.m. Sundays from 10 to 11 a.m. only.
rsr>
\ u'
-ZSMi
°'CTu
TO YOUNG UVEIESnsr,
DR. FLETCHER’S
TREATISE ON NERVOUS DISEASES, THEIR CAUSE,
SYMPTOMS, TREATMENT, AND CURE.
directions contained in this little treatise will be
found of immense benefit to the sufferer ; and if these
directions are observed during the early stages of Nervous
or Sexual Debility’, A T o Medicines will he required , as, I>y
observing the directions given, the patient can Cure Him-
self.
This admirable little treatise is specially written to
show a method of counteracting the evil effects of indis-
cretions in early life —overwork, irregularity in eating or
drinking, &c. His the result of much study and long
and successful experience in (lie treatment of diseases,
and contains a fund of useful information to every suf-
ferer from the following complaints, viz. Nervous
Debility, Dizziness, Specks before the Eyes, Pains in the
Back, Defective Memory, Loss of Will Power, Loss of
Energy, Spermatorrhoea, Bashfulness, Discontentedness,
Constipation, Liver and Kidney Derangements, Atrophy,
Impotence, Impure Blood, Foul Taste in Mouth, Palpita-
tion of Heart, Wakefulness, Despondency, Excessive Ner-
vousness, Inability to Marry, Premature Decay, and other
symptoms experienced by nervous sufferers.
All Should Send for this Little Treatise.
If the complaint is of long standing and requires
medicine. Dr. Fletcher will GUARANTEE TO CURE
ANY CASE OF NERVOUS or SEXUAL DEBILITY
with ONE COURSE OF MEDICINES LASTING FIVE
WEEKS, and will send with medicines A WRITTEN
GUARANTEE to cure same or return the monies paid.
Dr. Fletcher's treatment is both simple and effective,
and within the reach of the poorest. It is unlike any
other, and with it he has cured over 25,000 patients, and
invites patients to investigate his statements by verifying
the testimonials published in his treatise. The treatise
will be forwarded on receipt of two stamps to covet
postage.
" CONSULTATION BY LETTER, FREE.
Address in first instance —
DR. H. EWART FLETCHER,
Box 1417, G.P.O.
Sydney, N.S.W.
Private address—Clonmel House, Waverley, Sydney.
Remember, all cases undertaken, guaranteed, and a
signed agreement given, which provides that NO COST
be incurred by the patient if a cure is not effected.
VARICOCELE RADICALLY CUR ED, WITHOUT
OPERATION.
Mention this Paper.
ISf” IN THE PRESS,
“.A. G-OLJDjEZEsT SHANTY,”
By “BULLETIN” WRITERS.


A. pleasantly-situated Property, thoroughly cleared, close to Liverpool Station. Torrens’ Title, £1 deposit; 10s, per month.
■A.. ~W. STIBIPIHIZEiIET., 28 CASTLEBEAGH STREET, SYDNEY.
A Golden Shanty.” A Selection from the brightest of the original literary matter which has made The Bulletin world-famous. Price, Is. : posted, 3d. extra
Public Companies.
The Australian Mercantile Loan and
Guarantee 00. (Limited).
Head Office :
Corner of Market ami Vork Streets. SYDNEY.
Melbourne—2B3 Collins-street East.
Brisbane—Corner Edward and Elizabeth Streets.
Newcastle—27 Hunter-street.
Directorate :
FRANK J. SMITH, Esq., M.L.A., Managing’Director.
J. P. HOWE, Esq., M.L.A. G. J. FINLAYSON, Esq.
E. H. BUCHANAN, Esq. JAMES MILLER, Esq.
Phii Company grant immediate advances upon
Deeds of Laud, Bills of Lading, Merchandise,
Storage, and Bond Certificates, and all classes of
mercantile and other approved securities, for fixed
terras or repayable by instalments.
Interest Allowed on Deposits:
3 months ... G per cent.
,1! ” 7
12 .. S
A. MILLER
General Manager.
THE ' "
Australian Banking Company,
LIMITED.
PITT and MARKET .STREETS, SYDNEY,
Incorporated under the Companies Act, 187 U.
Authorised Capital, £500,000, in 100,000 Shares of £5 each.
Subscribed Capital, £75,000.
FRANCIS ABIGAIL, M.L.A.,
Chairman of the Board of Directors.
A Branch of the Bank has been opened at Goulburn
under the management of C. H. Atkinson, Esq. (lately
Branch Manager of the Bank of New South Wales) for the
t ransaction of General Banking Business.
The Bank has paid its Shareholders a dividend of 10 per
cent, every half-year since its formation.
The Bank transacts all usual banking business in every
particular.
Special advantages granted to Commercial Clients,
i n erdrafts granted against deposit of Deeds.
THE HIGHEST RATES OF INTEREST GIVEN FOB
FIXED DEPOSITS.
The Share Register is now open for the allotment of
Shares—New Issue.
By order of the Board of Directors.
RODERICK M‘NAMARA, Manager.
Forms of application for Shares may be obtained at the
Bank.
fIITY MUTUAL FIRE INSURANCE
v COMPANY, Limited.
Established 1877.
Capital ... ... £500,000.
Head Office:
25 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY.
A Cash Boat s of 10 per cent, is paid to Policyholders
on renewals every year. Insurances covering Loss by Fire,
Lightning or Gas Explosion at Lowest Rates.
The DIVIDEND of 8 PER CENT, to 31st December,
1889, is now being paid, and the BONUS ot 10 PER
CENT, to Policyholders will, as usual, be paid on re-
newal of the : r policies.
Monet to Lend on Approved Secitutv.
N.B.—The Bonus paid is equal to that paid by any
Fire Company in Sydney.
ROBERT KERB, Manager.
*i«on>9K
OOLEMANE&SONS
Eucalypti Oil^s.
w
f
m
Victory Ointments
THE TREE OF LIFE.
Duncan Floss,
The (.treat American Athlete,
JCUED of INFLI’KN/A hy vising GOLEMANE & SON'S-
EUCALATTE EXTRACT.
lION’T BE DECEIVED.
If you want the best Medicine the world has ever pro-
duced, try Golem ank & Sons’ Eucalvptk Extract— there
are no ten medicines equal to it. It is one of Nature’s
greatest yrifts to mankind. It is the only known cure for
Asthma, Consumption, bronchitis, and all affections of
t lie Chest and Lungs. For. Palpitation of the Heart,
(travel and Kidney complaints it has no equal. Fevers of
all kinds, Coughs, Colds, Rheumatism, etc., are banished
by its use. Awarded Medals and Diplomas Adelaide,
.Sydney and Melbourne, beating all competitors. Singers
public speakers will find 0. and Sons’ Eucalvpte
itoyn a wonder. be sure and get Colemake and
Business Announcements.
Book of W attire.
ŧ
Book. of INI ature.
BOOK OF NATURE and Illustrated Matri-
monial Guide. —A full and explicit explanation
of the structure and uses of the organs of iife and genera-
tion in man and woman, intended especially for the
married, or those intending to marry, and who conscien-
tiously and honestly desire to inform themselves upon the
intent and nature of marriage and its duties, to which is
added a complete MEDICAL TREATISE upon all diseases
of the generative organs, whether resulting from infection
or sexual excesses and abuse, with much other valuable
and highly important information, illustrated with more
than fifty engravings, price 3/6, post 4/-. The Fruits of
Philosophy or Private Companion for Married People,
post 1/2. Mrs. Besant’s Law of Population, 1/-, post 1/2.’
Aristotle,complete, 3/6, post 4/-. Maria Monk, 1/6, post 1/9
“The Matron’s Manual or Midwifery,” the book every
married woman needs; price 7/-, posted 7/6. The arts of
Boxing, Swimming and Gymnastics made easy, enabling
anyone to become an expert boxer or athlete, illustrated
with fifty engravings ; price 1/-. “ Marriage as it was, as
it is, and as it should be,” by Mrs. Besant; 1/-, posted 1/2.
Dr. Foote’s Plain Home Talk, new edition, over 200 illu-
strations; 7/6, post free. Matrimony, or Phrenology
and Physiology applied to the selection of Congenial
Companions for Life, 6d. The Elements of Social Science ;
3/6, posted 4/-. A'igger Songs, Cd. Henry George’s Works
all at 1/-, posted 1/4. How to Mesmerise, Thought Plead-
ing, Mesmeric entertainments, &c., &c. ; price 1/6.
Modern Etiquette, Parties, Courtship, Love, Dress, Visit-
ing Introductions, Weddings, &c., 1/6. The Male Genera-
tive Organs, their use and abuse, in health and disease,
from infancy to old age, with the treatment of all their
derangements, for every man’s own private use ; illus-
trated by numerous engravings and colored plates, by
Dr. F. Hollick. M.D.; new revised Australian edition,
superior cloth binding, gilt; price 5/-, post free. Works
of lugersoll, Paine, Bradlaugh, Besant, Foote. Send for
catalogue.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Radical Book Stores,
PARK STREET, SYDNEY.
WOOL. WOOL.
THE NEW ZEALAND
Loan £ Mercantile Agency
COMPANY. LIMITED.
BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Capital, £4,500,000 ... Reserve, £270,000
Wool Season* 1888-89.
Regular Sales of Wool Held Throughout the
Season.
T'HE greatest care bestowed on the Valuation and the
- 1 - Displaying and Pkotfxtino all Wools entrusted to
the Company for sale, whether from large or small clips.
Growers Advised and Consulted ivith before Sales
of their Clips arc made.
Liberal Cash Advances, where desired, on Wool lieu
of Ensuing Clip, and on Wool and other Produce, whether
for sale in Sydney or shipment to London.
Auction Sales of Sheep Skins, Marsupial
Skins, Hides, Tallow, &c., Held Regularly.
Every Information Supplied on Application.
G. S. CAMPBELL, Manager.
SYDNEY WOOL li GRAIN WAREHOUSES
Bridge and Loftus Streets.
Business Announcements.
HEALTH for the MILLION !
Mild, Aperient, Antihilious
Pills, purely vegetable
in their composition,
are particularly recommended to either sex, where a
gentle, but effective aperient is required. These Pills
are invaluable for all complaints of the Stomach and
Liver, speedily removing sick headache, biliousness,
indigestion, etc., and cleansing the
blood of all impurities. To Ladies
these pills will be found invaluable.
One trial is sufficient to prove their vast superiority
over all others. Sold by all Chemists and Storekeepers.
Price Is. per box. Prepared solely by John Watson,
Chemist, George Street, Sydney.
WATSON’S
PILLS
Wholesale Agents s
Messrs. Elliott Bros., S. Hopfnung & Co., Australian
Drug Co., Fieldham Gothelp & Co., Myers & Solomon,
Tillocti & Co. and J. R. Love & Co.
—THE—
Electro-Magnetic
Massage Institute,
For the cure of—
Rheumatism Lumbago, Sciatica, Debility,
Gouty and Neuralgic Affections,
Muscular and Nervous Disorders
All Cases under Medical Supervision. Ladies
attended by specially-trained Nurses.
94 * DARLING HU 11 ST * ROAD,
SYDNEY.
Attendance : 9 to 1 a.m. ; 7 to 10 p.ra.
Process Protected by Letters Patent.
». H, SMITH & SON,
MANUFACTURERS & IMPORTERS OF
H7HFS fljo CfIPS,
302 Georgre Street, Sydney,
8 Doors South of Hunter Street.
A Large Assort
aient of English and
French Goods, from
the best Makers to
choose from.
Every description
of HATS and CAPS
made to Order.
rW
/ IP*
WHISKY
NOW ACKNOWLEDGED
TH E BEST
IN THE MARKE
T
- SOLD
EVERYWHERE
M.W.iC?
Sole Agents: JAMES MOIR & CO., 58 Margaret-st., Sydney
JJISTORY OF BOTANY BAY
PRICE—ONE -SHILLING.
-THE-
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL
FIRE
Insurance Society.
Established 1872.
Bonußea
OF
20 per cent. Paid Annually
since 1873.
Head Office
-THE
Oldest Mutual Fire Office
in Australia.
Claims promptly and liberally
settled Fifteen days’grace
allowed for Renewal of Policies.
.Lowest Current Rates charged!
lion. George Thornton ,
Chairman.
Head Ofeick:
Corner Pitt Sc King Streets,
SYDNEY.
Walter Church ... Manager*
Business Announcements.
fTgrz
ru
ir
mmt
m
W'OHAPffiv
4
m
CTIONEERS &TESTATE AGENT
MITuRfCCNDUCjI
MPTACCOUNTSAU!
a
B A Y L E E CO.
General Auctioneers and Estate Agents,
335 Collins Street, Melbourne, ami 14 lliapei
Street, South lavra.
umbrellas
RECOVERED.
STUDY ECONOMY
and
Have your Umbrella Frames
Re-Covered, and your
Parasols Re-Lined and made
Equal to New, at
J • SULIj IV AN’ S,
541 George Street,
Biiicki'ikld Hill, Sydney,
between
Liverpool <t; Bathurst Sts ,
Parasols made to match Cos-
tumes. Repair's neatly done.
PAPER-HANGINGS,
oiis,c6LOims*p A | NTS .
WALL.PAPERSFOpM&mtL
PA I
529 George BathurstSt.
Brickfield Hill.
p
ULVERMACHER’S WORLD-
FAMED GALVANIC BELTS
FOR THE CURE OP
Nervous Exhaustion and Debility, Sciatica,
Lumbago, Rheumatism, &c„
HAVE received Testimonials from Three
Physicians to Her Majesty the Queen and
the Leading Physicians of many London Hospi-
tals including over Forty Members of the Royal
College of Physicians of London.
lor full Price-list and particulars, see new pam-
phlet _ Galvanism ; Nature’s Chief Restorer of
Impaired Vital Energy.” Pamphlets Free.
Sole Agents for N.S.W.,
FROST <sc SHIPHAM
ELECTRICIANS.
474 & 587 George Street, Sydney.
Sole Agents for Victoria:
ALLISON BROS., 477 Collins-street West, Melbourne.
T L LIIMMVICI A .'•OX, Manufacturers and ImJ
■ porters of .Superior Oak-Tanned Leather Belting,
and er\ description of Leather Goods for Mining and
Engineering purposes
All Goods Hearing theabove Trade Mark are warranted
to entire satisfaction, or may be returned at the
Makers expense. The Pioneer Oak-tanned Leather
Beliing is used exclusively by the N.S.W. Government.
Over 200,000' running in Australia. The cheapest and
best Belting in the world. Send for prices and catalogues
162 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
COUNTY
Investment, Land and, Bnildint;
. , , Jr , Company, Limited.
Authorised Capital, £lOO,OOO ... Reserves and Uncalled Capital, £37,000.
Rates for Deposits: 12 months, 7 per cent.; 6 months, 6.] per cent.; at call, 5 per cent.
_ . Bonus to 12 months’ Depositors.
Directors; •?. Garrard, M.P., Hon. J. 11. Yorm, M.P., .1. I*. Walker, J.P., John C. Hamilton.
.1. D. Ward, Manager, 327 Pitt-street, Sydney.
t
3 2 7 PITT
STREET, SYDISTEY.


The Bulletin
Vol ) J —No 517.
SATURDAY. MAY 81, 1890.
Price, 6d.
(Q) |p S H INI «s. (ft! Pr, 2 ®IM
The EuUETiH S ■*■&&* CSjS
*th~- <7_ ect, eniOn'l ael a, p<t-i. ats <s. 6t)
I. IW C. jut's. S. a THAT JK> OuRK.t 'Ss' 1 ~
COUt-D 0--=-
pfe £
PUE&BS
P,\ N<S- §
t
p\ VN'o^' ; c_ <^d‘^3
CTei {, f-t* r *"® y
Ol Ink® r /
f* * /
Wa LI I riGrT O M
BOW 6
<p3> fpy'S* j WOULD
T** LIKE. TO
fsf\ To ol t 1 “=>
XD ! s><cr USTED
AT S' 1 fe- N S
OF DIS l_ O A U-T |
Mis, Exc, E M,ENCN
APPROACHES
Th e £VHamber
Si i*p dcw n | m om t r )
C j I >1 (i, jv
THE CABBAGE-GARDEN PARLIAMENT OPENS.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
“Australia for the Australians.’*
Proprietors ; BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO.,
Limited.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
A.t 21 Pitt-strket, Sydney, New South Walks,
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(payable in advance, only).
Per Annum ... ... ••• £lO 0
Half-yearly ••• 0
Quarterly ••• 0G 6
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Dimness Communications
to he addressed to William Maclrod, Managing Director.
Literary Communications to be addressed to J. F.
Archibald.
The Editor wUI carefully read and acknowledge in tne
“ Correspondence ” column all contributions submitted —
whether in the form of Political, Social, or other Articles,
Verse, Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing with A us-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in
length, or say SOGO words, are specially acceptable),
Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper-Clippings. All
communications will be regarded as strictly confidential.
“ The Bulletin" will return all unavailable MSS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we
desire those sending MSS. to distinctly understand that
we arc not responsible for the preservation or transmission
of such MSS.
yOTICE.
Dy sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty Shillings
sterling—which you may pay by Post o filer Order, One
Pound Mote, or Stamps of any Australian colony—you
can have The Bulletin posted regularly to you every week
for a year.
This offer is not open to residents of Sydney. In that
city The Bulletin is not delivered by mail, hut is entirely
in the hands of our earners, with whom ice do not wish
to interfere.
SATURDAY. MAY 31, 1830.
The Irrevocableness of Federation.
The paternity of the present Australian
Federal movement can only be attributed to
the cunning vanity of a political humbug
—t<> the toyings and dallyings with frail
ambition of a Pretender to Everything who
is also an Achiever of Nothing. The people
of Australia have issued no mandate to their
politicians that the colonies shall be fede-
rated. When the command goes forth it
will spring from the pressure of one of two
things: an external danger or an internal
illumination —from the threatenings of a foe,
or from the light diffused by aspiration after
national independence. The Bulletin hopes
that the latter will be the pre-disposing
cause. For this hope it lives and works.
It would rather Federation were obtained
in a time of peace than clutched as a pos-
sible means of salvation in a period of panic.
But The Bulletin will welcome union
whenever it copies and in whatever circum-
stances, always provided that it is demanded
at the time by the popular voice. This is
one thing of many lacking in Parke, s’
scheme. It is the essential thing. The
public have not asked for it because they do
not want it—now. Hie person who thought
he was the Man said the Hour had come,
but the people of Australia have not even
echoed his words. An insignificant few have
been enthusiastically receptive : but the huge
majority have proved critical and sceptical—
a section of the majority, indeed, rudely
censorious. What applause Pahkes’ ideas
have elicited has come almost wholly across
the seas, and has been vented by Imperialis-
tic throats whose owners know nothing of
Paukes and less of Australia,' the coming
Republic. Certainly there has been abso-
lutely wanting any evidence that the Aus-
tralian public heart hungered after Federa-
tion, or that, granting the hunger, it was
prepared to be satisfied with the Parkesian
hash.
* # # • .
In this absence of any popular demand for
State consolidation on a federal basis is to be
found all the explanation that is needed of
the vagueness and inconclusiveness of
Premier Pahkes’ proposals. A clamorous
Australia would have formulated its desires
more or less definitely. It would thus have
erected sign-posts which he could have fol-
lowed, and cleared tracks which he could
have trodden without fear of ‘ ‘ lions in the
path. ” But an apathetic Australia denied
these facilities to him. and, as he must do
something, would he rescue his party from
speedy annihilation or his own name from
the maw of oblivion, he had to propound
some sort of a plan by way of which to gain
those unquestionable ends. Of two varieties
of federation he had to choose one—that
of the American Republican type, or
that of the Canadian Dominion. He
chose the latter as the choice would not
bar his future adhesion to the former if Aus
tralia made it apparent that she would build
up her nationhood on a Republican founda-
tion and on no other. On the other hand,
the selection of the former would have been
final ; it would have meahta leap from which
there could be no recovery. “Federation
under the Crown ” —pretty figment!—might
merge gradually into a Free Republic, but
“ the silken bonds ” once severed could never
be knitted again. But in his detailed de-
scription of the brand he could not possibly
bo vaguer. The density of the fog of un-
certainty which encompasses the whole
Dominion scheme is made palpable once the
inquiry is put as to the terms of federal
union or the limitations of federal responsi-
bility. What rights and powers arc to be
granted to the Federal Government by the
several provinces ! What righrs and powers
are to be reserved by them ! Substantially
the only answer that has yet been presented
to these questions is : “ Leave all to the
Convention.” Some of the issues raised
by this delimitation question, The Bulle-
tin agrees,'may be left over till the
delegates assemble. But to one at least an
imperative answer is demanded. Will the
powers to be reserved by the individual
colonies include the right of secession ! Is
the Federal Union to be revocable or the
reverse !
# # #
To show the crudity and puerility of the
manner in which our pseudo-publicists have
approached the problems of Federation,
The Bulletin has only to state that not one
of them has made the slightest reference to
the issue raised by the foregoing questions.
Neither at the Melbourne Conference nor
in Parliamentary or extra-parliamentary
utterances before or since has even incidental
allusion to it been made by Sir Henry
Pahkes or any other member of that
gathering. Yet it requires no argument
to demonstrate that the question as to the
revocableness or irrevocableness of the
Federal compact is an all-important issue.
Pahkes has described Federation as “ a
partnership between States.” An essential
element in every deed of partnership is a
statement of the duration of the contract
and the means by which it may be ter-
minated. it is proposed that the Australian
States shall enter into a partnership agree-
ment, and authority is being asked from the
people of the several provinces for their
respective delegates to draft and sign the
deed, but no definition of the contracting
period has been submitted. This may be
statesmanship, but it is not business ; it is
not even common prudence. Again Parkes
has sentimentally spoken of Federation as
the “ wedding of States.” Marriage, as he
ought to know, has its seamy side, and it is
conceivable that even a blushing bride may
have before her eyes the contingency of
divorce. Thus pre-nuptial settlements dis-
tinctly face the possibility of post-nuptial
separation. Take which illustration one
will, analogy from every-day life demands
that before a federal union be formed the
prospective parties to it shall agree as to the
violability or inviolability of the tie. And
considerations drawn from the higher domain
of state-craft are equally obvious and more
imperative still. That which may be excused
as a blunder in relation to an individual
becomes a crime when it affects the measure-
less interests of a whole people.
* # #
The Bulletin, having due regard both to
historical precedents and to the peculiar
conditions under which the nascent Austra-
lian nation w ill assume the responsibilities of
independent existence, expresses its opinion
that while the Federal Union cannot be in
its essence indissoluble, the bond between
any one of its constituent States and the
Federal Government must be irrevocable.
Obviously, there could be no efficacy in a
Federal or General Government if all of the
contracting States withdrew from the com-
pact, and there would bo no power which
could prevent that unanimous application of
the closure to its ow n existence. The pro-
ceeding would amount to a dissolution of
partnership by common consent, and the
withdrawal by each party of such proportion
of its powers as it had delegated to the
Federal authority would mean the virtual
annihilation of the latter. But this contin-
gency is too remote to require discussion.
Not so, however, the other; history
and the doctrine of probabilities alike
point to the conclusion that if these
colonies were federated, some one or other
of them would, sooner or later, seek to
snap the Federal link. The likelihood of the
occurrence of such an event being foreseen,
the event itself must be prepared for, either
with a view to its being effected with the
minimum of inconvenience, or with a view
to prevent it. We hold the preparation
should be to the latter end. There should
be no facility given for the abandonment of
federal obligations by a unit of the Federa-
tion. On the contrary, the federal authority
should bo endowed with the power of
coercion to prevent the withdrawal of a
dissentient State. In other words, the rights
to be reserved by individual States on their
entrance into the Federal Union should
not include that of secession. We found
this opinion on the single proposition
that unification for enduring national pur-
poses is impossible if any party to the agree-
ment be at liberty to terminate it at will,
and Federation has no raison d'etre but to
achieve objects impossible to its constituent
States individually. Grant the right to
secede, and there could be no continuity in
national progress, or finality in national
legislation. The federal tie must be irre-
vocable.
* * #
Students of United States history will re-
cognise that we are simply re-stating the
doctrine of “State Sovereignty” and its
antithesis—the enmity over which occasioned
the American Civil War —and that in our
conclusion we adopt the Republican as dis-
tinguished from the Democratic view—that
of the successful North and not that of the
defeated South. We take this view, how-
ever, not because it is the creed of the vic-
torious, but because in the words of E. A.
Freeman—
No man oSn doubt the formal right of the Northern
cause— the cause of the Federal Government—who has
given any serious thought to the first principle of a
Federal Constitution. Secession was formally rebellion ,
just as m uck as rebellion aga inst a king.
This is the declaration of a man pre-eminent
in his especial domain of scientific investi-
gation, and whose researches into the evolu-
tionary forces of federal organisations have
a unique value. Freeman argues the irre-
vocableness of the federal obligation. He
identifies a breach of that obligation as re-
bellion. And so deeply sensible are our
leaders of political thought, our “ Makers of
a Nation,” of the gravity of this aspect of
the federal question-—they never make the
feeblest allusion to it. At the instance of a
baker’s dozen of nonentities these colonies
are to be rushed into a position from which
perchance they could only emerge by refer-
ence to the bloody arbitrament of war.
“Shooting Niagara” would be child’s play
to the game to which Parkes and his col-
leagues of the Conference would commit us.
If exception be taken to our argument as
being drawn from Republican conditions, it
can be easily paralleled from the experience
of a Federation “ under the Crown ” —of that
very congeries of states, indeed, which
Parkes would have the Australias take for
their model. When New Brunswick, some
years ago, contemplated secession from the
Canadian Dominion, Sir John M‘Donald is
reported to have said that the provincial
Assembly might pass as many secessionist
resolutions as it chose, but “ Canadian rifles
and British cannon would prevent any of
them being put into force.” The Canuck
Premier was brutal in his reply, but he was
logical,
# * *
Let us go slow. Union of the Australias
will come when the people are ready for it
and want it. They will then know what
they want, and to obtain it will be willing
to surrender such portion of their sovereign
rights as is necessary to the erection of a
Federal Government. We advisedly use the
word “sovereign.” It may be considered
inapplicable because the Australias are
“ dependencies of the Crown.” Nominally
they are ; virtually they are not. “ We retain
the Australian colonies only while we give
them all they ask ; British control is a fic-
tion,” wrote a British Tory recently, and no
one here, except Parkes and Gieltes, in
their crassly Imperialistic moments will feel
any necessity to dispute the accuracy of the
remarks. For. as the authority we have
already quoted, says :
A State is sovereign which has any powers which it
holds by inherent right, without control on the part of
any other power, without responsibility to any other
power
Substantially this is the position of the con-
stitutional colonies of Australasia. Now, a
sovereign state should only delegate certain
of its powers to a Union with extreme cau-
tion, and with a full apprehension of the
significance and effect of the surrender. It
retains certain powers, within the range of
which it will bo sovereign ; it, surrenders
others to a Federal or General Government,
which is created by the absorption of these
powers and of similar ones from cognate
States. Within the range of the total of
surrendered powers the Federal Govern-
ment will be sovereign, and an attribute
of sovereignty is the authority of the
sword. Into this abnegation of an ele-
ment of their independence, these provinces
are now asked to enter impetuously, without
even the scope of the surrender being sug-
gested as a preliminary. The ablest parlia-
mentary contribution which has yet been
made in any colony to the current contro-
versy was the speech of Mr. G. H. Reid in
the New South Wales Assembly. It was
purely destructive in tendency ; it ruthlessly
tore down without suggesting anything in
the way of construction ; but it manifested
a clear perception of the responsibility
attaching to Federal functions. His illus-
tration of “ the power of attorney” alone had
a clarifying influence on the public brain
exceeding that derivable from the volumes
of blather emitted by other parliamentary
leaders. Reid said :
The Canadian Constitution was the most thoroughly
supreme authority known in the whole history of Federa-
tion. Each colony would give up its Parliamentary
authority, all its prerogatives. The powers of the pro-
vinces should be only those defined with the Constitution.
The difference between the Canadian Constitution and
that of the United States was the same as the difference
between these two powers of attorney he was about to
describe. If he gave a man a power of attorney to do a
certain thing, he knew what he had to do and he could
not go beyond it, but if he gave a man this sort of power
of attorney: “ I give you complete authority over every-
thing connected with me except certain things,” the
difference was easily seen. The Canadian system was
similar to the power of attorney that gave authority over
everything except a few things. The United States was
very different. It said: “We give you this power and
that power, but all the supremacy of Parliament, all the
freedom of our Parliamentary institutions, we reserve to
ourselves.” He had no hesitation in saying that he would
never be a party to any Constitution which was framed on
the Canadian lines.
Eflective enough as far as it goes is this
illustration, but it does not go far enough.
A power of attorney is revocable. But, as
we have shown, the very essence of the
Federal Compact is its irrevocability. To
quote Freeman once more, ho says—with
reference to the American Union :
It is plain matter of history that whatever powers the
Union holds it holds by the grant of the States. It is
equally plain that the grant was irrevocable, except so far
as its terms may be modified by a constitutional amend-
ment. And the power of making such amendment is
itself part of the grant of the States which thus agreed
that, in certain cases, a fixed majority of the States should
bind the whole. . . . The error of the secessionists
lay in treating an irrevocable grant as if it had been a
revocable one. The doctrine of the right of secession, as
a constitutional right, was absurd on the face of it.
# # #
Where, then, is the obvious moral of these
contentions ? Surely that there should be
unquestioned popular sanction and extreme
legislative caution for any scheme of federal
union whatever. Let the Australias know
to what it is designed to commit them, and
there will be then no fear that the otherwise
inevitable tangle will have to be freed with
the sword, for there will be no tangle. The
moment the Conference resolutions pass all
the Legislatures the colonies will be com-
mitted to a “Federation under the Crown,”
and this without the people of any one colony
having been consulted as to the taking of an
irrevocable step. In the terms of the reso-
lutions, the appointees of each Parliament
are to be delegates —not representatives. A
delegation implies a mandate outside of the
four corners of which the delegates may not
pass. Whence has the mandate emanated in
this case ? Not from the people, certainly,
and in a constitutional country the people
have a right to be consulted as to a radical
constitutional alteration. Otherwise, their
constitutional freedom is a lie, and the con-
stitution a snare. A referendum is desir-
able ; a direct appeal to the constituencies
on this subject alone, and no other*, is im-
perative.
“Things will Last my Time.”
“Things will last my time” was the favourite
motto of Louis XV. of France, a philosophic
monarch who lived just before the deluge, and
died with a prophetic instinct that an era of
scatteration and eternal smash was close at hand.
He was a pious man in his way—that old. forgotten
potentate—as piety went in an age when God
thought twice before He damned a person of
quality, and he was a kind-hearted sovereign, who
could forgive an enemy or boil a friend with equal
facility, and he was generous till wine and women
left him without a cent, and he suffered from
attacks of biliousness which he took to be repen-
tance, and he mistook his stomach-ache for his
soul, and he felt , sorry for the sufferings of his
unhappy subjects, and when his sorrow became
too great to be endured, he hanged a few of them
to put them out of their misery. But in general
he let things slide, in the hope that the old in-
stitutions would last his time, and his hope proved
to be well-founded, for he died in peace, and his
son —who was a slow, feeble,'thick-headed saint
with a tremendous appetite—was blown up in his
stead when the great upheaval came and Provi-
dence ceased to think twice before it damned
persons of quality. His famous motto and an
old, second-hanU harem were the only assets that
the crowned fatalist left behind him; the latter
was buried somewhere and has long since been
forgotten, but the former still survives and is
doing good service to this day. The one aim and
purpose of the rulers and statesmen of modern
Europe is to patch up the decayed, moth-eaten
framework of society sufficiently to make it last
their time, and if the ancient institution of pro-
perty and vested interests will hang out while the
present generation lasts, the next may judiciously
stand from under while the venerated structure
comes down in a heap.
# # #
The tenacious efforts of the British Conserva-
tive Government and the British Conservative
Press to retain Western Australia as a convenient
receptacle for the outcast poverty and pauperism
of England is a striking example of the policy by
which the apostles of stagnation have always en-
deavoured to make the great social problem last at
least another generation. For many years emi-
gration has saved the mother-country from revolu-
tion, and now that attractive fields for emigration
are growing more and more scarce the desire to re-
serve the empty regions by the Swan River as a
receptacle for the human sediment of England’s
cities has risen to fever heat. It is owing entirely
to the good fortune which opened two new conti-
nents as a refuge for her destitute sons and
daughters that there, are not twelve million Irish-
men instead of five to raise insurrection amid the
desolate wastes of Connaught and Leinster, and
that the hungry, desperate element which may
even yet bring about a fearful revolution in Eng-
land itself is only some five millions strong in place
of fifteen. Judging the future by the past, there-
fore, itr is evident that when emigration becomes
virtually impracticable some kind of indefinite
convulsion must shortly ensue. For some reason
which no Conservative can find out, Britain,
though one of the richest countries known toman,
has become a failure as a human habitation, and
when the empty places of the earth become filled
up, or the owners of these places take alarm at the
policy by which an unsolvable problem is being
handed over to them to work out, and the poor
of England can no longer take the affliction of thei r
hopeless poverty with them to some distant laud,
a catastrophe of some description is close at hand.
Probably if Louis XVI. had been in a position
to offer to Robespierre and each one of his fellow-
revolutionists 640 acres of arable land and a cow in
some remote country beyond the sea he could
have exported all the dangerous elements of
France, and the Revolution would have been still
a thing of the future; but that resource being un-
available lie and the old institutions went down
together. Even the petrified Conservative of the
present day is beginning to realise the possibilities
of the future and to comprehend that a boiler
without an outlet is certain to burst, and as he
lives and draws his salary on top of that boiler he
is naturally apprehensive of the consequences.
But if the boiler can be induced not to burst in his
time he will be comparatively contented, and will
bequeath the explosion to his descendants and let
them take their chance among the ruins.
• * *
A hundred years of constant emigration have
left the great problem very much as it was. In
that period the United States has filled up to a
considerable extent, and has built up a great
social problem of its own, and America is now
becoming less and less available as a refuge for the
shoeless, penniless army of European poverty and
woe. Australia is too far away to afford a con-
venient outlet, and the Australians have already
resolved that they at least will not „ake over the


apparently unanswerable conundrum of Britain’s
misery and wretchedness. Asia and continental
Europe are equally unpromising. There are still
fertile lands in abundance, it is true, where the
British exile can settle under his own vine and fig-
tree, and cultivate grain which the world will not
e at because it can’t raise the necessary cash,
and produce manufactured goods that are more or
less unsaleable because the supply is already in
advance of the demand ; but nevertheless emigra-
tion is already becoming a failure, and every year
the failure is bound to become more and more pro-
nounced. Ever since history began the world’s
population has been moving westward, but when
the innumerable caravan brings up with a shock
against the extreme western boundary of the
earth the great movement must come to an end,
and the world is anxious to know what will happen
[ie xt. The country which, above all others, has
relied on emigration as a means of esca| e from its
difficulties will have to solve this problem first,
a nd as the modern British state -man has no solu-
tion ready, his one hope is that things may last
his time. His predecessor of a hundred years ago
found himself grasping the tail of a social tiger
w ith an awful conviction filling his mind that if
he let go for an instant the animal would turn
round and rend him. Then he struck the brilliant
idea of exporting ins zoological incubus to some
country where it would find more elbow-room, and
hy this expedient he postponed the inevitable trial
of strength for an indefinite period. But mean-
wliile another animal of the same species is grow-
ing up, and its keeper’s prayer is that he may be
able to bequeath his hold on it to the next genera-
tion, and leave them to hang on or let go as
circumstances may direct.
Britain has exported her hungry inhabitants by
millions, and yet something like one-third of her
population lives in a state of chronic destitution.
Ten million voices of misery and suffering are for
ever asking why, in one of the richest countries
on earth, there is no room for them to live, and
as emigration dies out and the starving masses are
more and more closely pent up in their narrow
islands these voices must go on indefinitely in-
creasing in number and vehemence until an answer
is found. The theory that want is created by the
constant multiplication of humanity is an exploded
fallacy. The earth can still supply enough, and
more than enough, for the requirements of all its
inhabitants. The earth was crowded as it is to-
day when the first man of old tradition wandered
on its surface —alone. In that golden age of long
ago the proportion between producers arid con-
sumers was the same as it is in the nineteenth
century. There was one available producer and
one consumer then ; to-day there are some fourteen
hundred millions of both, but the ratio never has
and never can vary. The world will only be over-
crowded when the soil is no longer capable of
furnishing food for its innumerable occupants,
and that result seems no nearer to-day than it was
in that far-off period when Abraham and Lot
parted to find more elbow-room '-n the tenantless,
plains of Asia.
v * * *
The system by which Britain has so long found
relief from her most pressing difficulties has been
to send out her starving subjects to become the
landholders and prospective millionaires of new
continents, and to gather round them in their
turn hungry, impoverished peoples to whom the
problem of existence bids fair in time to become
as hopeless as it is to the miserable proletariat of
the Old World. Australia is comparatively rich
to-day because, as yet, she is only in the first
stage of her new existence ; because a handful of
men own a continent, and the age of hopeless
servitude for the multitude has not yet com-
menced. But if she continues to build up an
aristocracy of wealth after the fashion which the
world has followed for so many centuries, her
ultimate fate is as certain and as hopeless as that
of Europe, and when her population has swelled
from four millions to forty the cry will already
b'gin to be heard that Australia is overcrowded,
and that new continents are wanted to furnish a
refuge for the poor who can find no room
even in this empty land. The problem of
human poverty and wretchedness can no more
be avoided under exiting conditions than
old age or death itself, and when or want of
refuge abroad the problem must of necessity
remain and find its solution in the land which gave
it birth, there will be a woeful downfall among
many ancient landmarks and a multitude of old-
established institutions will be for sale at a dis-
count.
* * *
The alternative lies between Socialism—on some
such principles as Bellamy described when he
wrote his famous work, “Looking Backward”-
and chaos. When there is no longer room to ex port
the multitudes who demand the means of earning
bread to some far-off land where they will be out of
sight and hearing, then society will have to furnish
them with some definite explanation why, in an
age of constantly increasing wealth three-fourths
of the human race is doomed to hopeless, incurable
poverty; and will require either to find a remedy
for their woes or leave them to seek the remedy
themselves after the fashion which the ignorant
masses are apt to adopt when they grope in the dark
with nothing but an indefinite sense of injury to
guide them. And at such times the massesareapt to
grope with axes and guns and hangmen’s ropes
and dynamite, and similar implements, and then
there is a fall in vested interests, and the sacred
rights of Property are little regarded. This pro-
cess is generally denounced as revolution and
confiscation, but the name adopted is a matter of
little importance. The tendency of the present
social system is to concentrate all the wealth
which might support a hundred men in the hands
of one, and leave the other ninety-nine to life-long
misery ; and the tendency of the coining system
of Socialism is to place things on a more equal
footing by making all the existing sources of
wealth the property of the State as trustee for the
nation at large, by abolishing all possibilities
for individual accumulation of capital, and
making every human being a worker who
will receive the full value of his labour instead of
a mere fraction as under the present destructive
conditions. The process by which this change is
to be brought about remains to be decided by the
governing classes themselves. Sooner or later the
ancient incubus of “ vested interests ” is doomed,
and it only remains for the holders of these to de-
cide whether their privileges only are to go or
whether they and their privileges are to go
together. The oligarchs of France considered this
very question about a hundred years ago, and
accepted the latter alternative, and how they went
is a matter of history. But so far as we remember
very few of them ever came back..
The “Age” Prejudges the Case.
Ihe most startling development in connection
with the Premier Building Society prosecutions
has been the unblushing impudence with which
the Melbourne Age changed its original song of
exultation into a prolonged howl of disapproval,
hpon the morning following the issue of sum-
monses against Messrs. Mirams, Nimmo, Dow,
&g:, there appeared in the alleged democratic
journal a vigorous resume of the events that had
led up to what the Age described as a natural,
inevitable, and altogether righteous climax. Ad-
miring reference was made to the first report of
Colonel Templeton, the official liquidator, a re-
port bristling with charges of mismanagement too
serious to be ignored by any right thinking
Government. The tact that they had been
ignored for several months—that the “Crown’
had shown an indisposition to take proceedings
until an important witness (himself implicated in
the alleged frauds) had left the country—was
caustically commented upon by the virtuous Age.
In brief, the organ of David Symb hinted, as boldly
as such things ever do hint, that the Crown had
hitherto shirked a solemn duty, viz., the proving
or disproving of fraud-charges against the dis-
credited management of the Premier Permanent
Building Society. The apparent honesty of this
fulmination was the more respected because one
of the summoned parties was known to be an old
servant and intimate friend of the paper which
recommended an enquiry into his conduct as a
great national duty. In this first hasty expression
of views regarding the great financial scandal the
Age assumed, seemingly, that the Crown had
taken upon itself the responsibility of an “inevit-
able” prosecution, but said assumption was
characteristically wrong. Until a primd facie
case' has been made out against the defendant
directors and others the “Crown” very pro-
perly and justly shuts its royal eyes and
closes its royal ears to all imputations upon their
honour. Nay, more, it happens that the boss
representative of the Crown - whom we take to be
Mr. Duncan Gillies —is publishing abroad his
firm belief in the innocence of his unfortunate
colleague, Mr. J. L. Dow. But that by the way.
The Age, having deliberately committed itself to
a warm approval of the action taken by Colonel
Templeton instead of the Crown, having declared
that such action was urgently desirable, in the
interests of public morality, and for the sake of
the individuals under suspicion—the Age, having
deliberately blown hot, began to blow cold, icily
cold, upon the prosecution of Mirams, Nimmo,
Dow, etc. After those gentlemen had made their
brief,, preliminary appearance at Melbourne
City Court, and Purves had emphatically
asserted that he would prove their culpability
beyond all shadow of a doubt, then the
Age started to attack Colonel Templeton.
The turncoat journal suddenly discovered that
the liquidator was unduly slow in unravelling
the accounts (full of erasures and alterations) of
the Premier Society, and shrieked that it was
“clearly his duty to take the advice of the court
before he ventured upon criminal proceedings.”
In the face of its former assertion that the neces-
sity of the Crown doing what Colonel Templeton
has just begun to do, had been obvious from the
first, the Age here displays a brazen effrontery
beyond all precedent. It has first justified and
then vilified the liquidator for attempting to
sheet home those very charges which “ must
be proved, or disproved.” Professing to believe
that the Premier Society shareholders are
annoyed (whereas the majority are actually de-
lighted) by the proceedings instituted by Col.
Templeton, the Age has made most abortive
attempts to stir up an agitation against their
further continuance. Suggesting to these well-
contented shareholders the absurd idea of applying
for an order or an injunction to squelch their
authorised agent, the Age said ; “Itis difficult to
suggest a reason for their not applying, and we
commend the matter to the attention of those who
are justly resenting the headstrong and ineffec-
tual (?) steps to which the liquidator has most
unadvisedly committed himself. It is not yet too
late to draw back.''' The shareholders were not re-
senting those steps, nor did they ever evince the
slightest inclination to make Colonel Templeton
draw back. They had not forgotten that it was
Ins duty—according to the Age of some eight
days previous—to go right on to the bitter
end. What then has influenced the Age
to suddenly repudiate its first * utterances,
which were so entirely in accord with the senti-
ments of the public ? Why has the solemn duty
of one week become a rash error the week follow-
ing ? Doubtless that largely-circulated organ
thinks it has good cause for attempting to strangle
a prosecution of which the unenlightened public
know nothing more certain than that Purves,
Q.C., says, rightly or wrongly, that he can
establish the charges put forward. But that the
Age should apply the term “ ineffectual ” to a case
which has yet to be heard by 27 magistrates, more
or less, is a fact to be deplored and denounced
equally with the conduct of Premier Gillies in
officially acquitting friend Dow before he has been
through the ordeal of an inquiry which his
acknowledged negligences fairly entitles him to
suffer. The Bulletin— disgraceful, radical, irre-
verent publication though it be—has not hitherto
made a practice of prejudging cases before magis-
trates or judges. In this instance, however, with
the example of the influential Age before our eyes,
we make bold to conjecture that the prosecution
of the Premier Building Society big-wigs is not
certain to be utterly and wholly ineffectual and
valueless, unless the impossible theory be accepted
that 27 magistrates (more or less) have arranged,
individually or collectively, to discharge all the
defendants without a stain upon their characters.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The State and the Unemployed.
The unemployed are like recurring decimals.
When demand is divided into supply they periodi-
cally re-appear. They are found at the Sydney
Statue or in Sydney Domain, and at analogous
windy centres of hunger and sorrow in the other
capitals of Australia. It is futile to argue that
they are solely the growth of fiscal conditions.
Fiscal conditions are not without effect, but are
not the cause of and cannot be made to cure the
evil. These recurring decimals of human misery
are substantially alike in New York, San Fran-
cisco; London, Paris, and elsewhere, irrespective
of the fiscal policies of the various countries.
It is interesting to the sociologist to note
how the Governments of various nations
try to cope with the evil. The general
tendency of Australian Governments is to kick
the unemployed one day and throw food to
them the next. In New South Wales they are
kept hanging around starving for a period the
length of which is wholly determined by whim.
Tlie Premier keeps his foot down for months,
alleging that it is not the business of Government
to provide work or to supply food, and some
morning, without any known reason for the action,
lie provides both work and food. In the United
States various influential Congressmen have urged
that the unemployed should be treated as vagrants,
arid while the Government there declines to adopt
the suggestion, it puts nothing else in its place.
In Holland the unemployed are driven into work-
houses, where seven' labour-tests are applied
to discover the (harm u i of the men. If they be
found unequal to the test they are banished to
East Holland for twelve months. There they are
made to work under military discipline, and if
that does not cure them they are imprisoned in
cellular prisons and starved into work. In
England and France they are treated much as they
are in America. All these methods of combating
the evil are founded on the assumption that want
of employment is presumptive evidence of culpable
idleness, 'there is no doubt that the ranks of the
unemployed are considerably swollen by the
inclusion of lazy people, but there is as little doubt
that every year sees a number of industrious men
jettisoned from manual and commercial occupations
on account of circumstances in no sense under
their control. That the voluntarily idle and the
involuntarily idle must bunch together makes the
conditions of the latter all the graver and more
bitter. The Governments which, because they
find the two classes mingled, repudiate the obliga-
tion of considering a plan of relief, would act only
consistently if they shut up hospitals and in-
firmaries because certain persons impose on the
benevolences. It is on the lines suggested by this
reflection that Germany has for the last eight or
nine years been drawing her unemployed from
the squares and market-places and putting them
systematically to- work. There is what is called
a working-men’s colony at Dornahoff, near
Frederickshaven, partly supported by Govern-
ment and partly by private donations. The
colony consists of 160 acres and accommodates
over 200 working-men. There are in all over a
score of these colonies dotting the vast empire,
and the number is still being added to as necessity
requires. No persons unable to work or who are
ill are admitted to these colonies. Everything is
done to interest the colonist in his work and to
give a home-like air to his colony. Mechanics,
labourers, and artisans of all descriptions are ad-
mitted for three months on an average, during
which time they are fed and clothed, for which
they pay back in work. The reports over the last
eight or nine years exhibit the colonies in a most
favourable light and should be studied by those
who, feeling comfortable themselves, are in favour
of allowing all who are uncomfortable —the good
and the bad —to drift together where they like.
Divorce Un-Christian.
When Hon. L. F. Heydon, in the New South
Wales Legislative Council and in the newspapers,
denominates Sir Alfred Stephen’s Divorce Bill
as un-Christian, he assumes a logical position from
which no religious sophistry can dislodge him, and
the surprising thing is not that a “devout”
Roman Catholic like Mr. Heydon should oppose
the measure but that a “devout” Anglican like
Sir Alfred should have introduced it. The Bill
is un-Christian, but for all that is just and merci-
ful in tendency, and the circumstance that it can be
the latter and not the former is another proof of the
strength of the Bishop of Peterborough’s conten-
tion that the State, as such, is not called upon to
regard so-called Christian principles in its enact-
ments. The State doesn’t pass Divorce Acts for
the benefit of alleged Christians only. It has to
consider as well the Buddhist, the Agnostic, the
Indifferentist, and the out-and-out Atheist—an
increasing number in all communities. The
Christian needn’t take advantage of the new
Divorce law unless he or she chooses, but
his or her avowed preference for what he
or she looks upon as the higher law of the
Christian Gospel, is no sort of argument for shut-
ting out others from the opportunity for obtaining
freedom from a lifelong thraldom. The Bill is
un-Christian because Parliament is under no obli-
gation to legislate for the internal discipline of
the Churches. It leaves all that sort of thing to
the Goes and Morans of Synodal assemblies ; it
has got to legislate for the community at large—
which is still a pretty bad community, notwith-
standing that the Churches have been reforming it
for 19 centuries.
*
Mr. Stevenson and Dr. Hyde.
When Robert Lours Stevenson first arrived in
Sydney, a few months ago, from Honolulu, it oc-
curred to The Bulletin that he might be able to
throw some authentic light upon the life and
character of Father Damien, a matter then occu-
pying much attention by reason of certain state-
ments which had recently been made in the press.
Our representative waited upon him, and
after calling his attention to the letter of
Rev. Dr. Hyde, which he had not thereto-
fore seen, ferreted out all the public cor-
respondence and comment upon the subject
obtainable and placed them in his hands.
The result is a letter of four columns from the
author of the “ Treasure Island ” which appears
in the press, and in which he seeks to defend the
memory of the dead priest and convict the living
parson of the charges of falsehood and uncharit-
ableness. The degree of his success is small in
comparison with the gigantic effort. Arrogance,
filthiness, want of judgment, and immorality
were alleged against Father Damien by Dr.
Hyde. Mr. Stevenson does not disprove
any of these accusations, and he tacitly admits and
palliates some of them. He visited the leper set-
tlement soon after Damien’s death, and conversed
with many people who had known him- and his
work intimately. He gives us a portrait from a
number of sketches, favourable or otherwise,
drawn on the spot, which he is careful to label
“ A Saint.” He judges that Father Damien was
far from being a perfect character: that he
was uncleanly, incapable of organisation or
management, and as full ‘ of human faults
generally as the ordinary brand of man, but
he heard no whisper against him on the ground of
morals until after leaving the island. ■ There
seems to us nothing in Mr. Stevenson’s letter
to warrant its having been written beyond
a desire to shield the reputation of a man
who worked hard in God’s vineyard through
the heat of the day, from the attacks of
one who sat under the shadow of God’s verandah
looking on at a distance. He lashes the Reverend
Dr. Hyde with a whip p'f scorpions for his heart-
less pronouncement of judgment upon a brother
Christian who wrought in an arena he dared not
enter, and here we think with some justification.
But altogether the. letter is not one which will
greatly help Mr. Stevenson’s literary reputation,
or glorify greatly the leper priest of Molokai.
As to the first, it is pitched in too high a
key, besides being full of egotistical self-conscious-
ness, which here and there degenerates into offen-
sive snobbery. For instance, in excusing his
bringing into print certain private matters con-
cerning the Rev. Mr. Hyde, “ You see, sir, how
you degrade better men to your own level.” In
a few places there are tinges of the pure
and delicious description which render some
of his books so charming, but throughout
the letter is abusive rather than argumentative,
and is not apparently conceived in a much better
spirit than that which evoked it. One feels the.
suspicion all through it that Mr. Stevenson is
trying to give an exhibition of fine writing
and not succeeding too well. The letter
tif Dr. Hyde was undoubtedly no credit
to anyone. Its assertions should hardly
have been published in any ease, most certainly not
without absolute proof behind them, and we can
see now that there was-po such proof. But Mr.
Stevenson gets along tolerably well without
proof also, and after much literary display and
flourish leaves the real character of Father Damien
a very open question indeed.
♦
Says the Pall Mall Gazette, and we quote its
utterance chiefly because it is largely a reiteration
of the views so often propounded by The Bulletin
on the subject:—
As for the blow which the hanging of Richard Davies
has given to the principle of hanging, Mr. Matthews has
ingeniously contrived to deliver the blow from both sides
at once. He has strengthened the objections of those who
were already opposed to capital punishment on humani-
tarian principles; and he has shaken the faith even of
those who support it most warmly as an essential element
of “ law and order.” The former point has been so patent
in ah the correspondence on the subject that we need not
stay to labour it here. We need only say that the execu-
tion of yesterday has shocked and disgusted many men
and women who ordinarily view the erection of the
scaffold with callous indifference. But Mr. Matthews
has done more for the abolitionist than that. Capital
punishment is, indeed, an institution too firmly planted
in this country for any one scandal to uproot it. The old
and barbarous notion of punishment as a system of “ an
eye for an eye ”is still very prevalent. One may see it
still in most of the newspapers, often in the House of
Commons and always in the House of Lords. Lord
BramwkljL and Mr. Punch and the Times will not lightly
give up the gallows any more than they will give up the
birch. And there are thousands of others to whom both
institutions are, and will, no doubt, long remain a source
of indescribable comfort. The gallows will die as'hard
as hell-fire. Nevertheless this Crewe case cannot fail to
shake the faith of some of the more reasonable believers
in capital punishment. Hell would soon lose its “com-
fort to so many poor thousands” it it were seen that only
one of every two damned were consigned to it. And so
with the gallows. There is great force in the argument
for capital punishment which is based on its peculiarly
deterrent force, so long as the punishment is surely,
regularly, and certainly inflicted. But if the worst of
crimes are to be visited with the most uncertain of punish-
ments, the ease is altogether altered. The gallows can-
not long survive if it is to be dependent on a process of
tossing up, as it were, and splitting the difference carried
on by a wobbling Home Secretary. But, in the mean-
time, while the advocates of capital punishment are re-
examining the foundation of their faith, British juries are
likely to take the law into their own hands. Hitherto the
separation of questions of punishment has been an in-
tegral part of the British system of criminal justice. It
is in many ways a most valuable principle ; and hitherto
it has survived, owing to a certain wisdom in not push-
ing it to excess. Juries have made recommendations
which, though carrying no binding force, have, as a
general rule, been acted upon by the Executive. The
judicial integrity of juries has thus been preserved in-
tact. An English jury can always be trusted to abide by
its oath, and to “ give a true verdict according to the evi-
dence.” What Mr. Matthews has done by his illogical
defiance of public opinion in the Crewe case is to undermine
the sanctity of the juror’s oath. Wherever two or three
persons were gathered together yesterday Mr. Matthews’
cowardly compromise was denounced. “ Why, he’s lei
off the wrong one,” was w'hat the man on the omnibus,
was everywhere saying. The man on the omnibus is the
British juror, and for the future he is likely to take steps
to prevent such ludicrous blunders. We have seen the
process already in Ireland. The Irish Executive defied
and despised Irish juries. The juries promptly retaliated
by taking the law into their own hands and delivering
untrue verdicts. This is the process which Mr. Matthews
has done his best to set going in this country. If recom-
mendations to mercy are to be halved in the ludicrous
fashion adopted in the Crewe case, juries will simply not
convict. It will be a great, and by no means an alto-
gether desirable, innovation. But it would be a legiti-
mate retort to a Home Secretary who stands self-con-
demned of having either spared one life which ought to
have been sacrificed, or sacrificed one which ought to have
been spared.
J. P. Abbott, M.P.-—possibly inspired by Elia,
who, damning posterity, declared that in future he
would write only for antiquity—speaking in the
N.S.W. Assembly on the Illawarra Harbour Bill,
wanted to know why we should do anything for
posterity. He overlooked the probability that if
he does not trouble about posterity, posterity will
not trouble about him. ‘The one great speech that
John Stuart Mill delivered in the Commons,
was mainly devoted to demonstrating the ingrati-
tude of those who looked only at the present. “ The
current generation,” he said, ‘‘owed much to
posterity, if for no other reason than that our fore-
fathers did not care only for themselves, but had
worked also for those who were to follow them. . .
The liberties of the present were the fruits of the
past, and because they were an inheritance were
they to be passed on not merely undiminished, but
added to.” And if only the present has to be
considered, what right have the constituents of the
great Australian Devil’s Advocate to that Wil-
cannia railway ? They’ve got to call in the aid of
posterity if they want that line built. And, again,
if Mr. Abbott doesn’t care a dump for posterity,
what right has he to accept a nomination to the
Federal Convention —whose work will be of value
only as it is done for posterity ? The fact is, as
The Bulletin has said before, Abbott is politi-
cally a cold-blooded, selfish, special pleader—never
anything else.
♦—
Here is something for every Australian to cut out
and paste in his hat: —
Men who to-day shudder at the idea of resistance to the
laws, or at the word disloyalty, to-morrow take office
under a revolutionary government, and exercise their
functions with placidity when once the first overt act of
rebellion has been committed, and they have accustomed
their minds to the fact of its existence. When we see
around us the machinery of a government at work with-
out any opposition, w'e are prone to accept its decrees un-
hesitatingly, not so much from the tendency of mankind
to follow' with the herd as from that love cf order and
that respect for those whom we see exercising governing
functions which interest in us.
Who wrote this? Why, Viscount Wolseley,
G.C.8., &c., in Blackwood’s Magazine many
years ago. This great man, just now a pinnacle
of the Tories and a bulwark of the Throne, has,
as his career witnesses, a keen eye to the mftin
chance and to the trend of events ; our quotation
proves that he foresees the Revolution and has
provided, in advance , a sound argument to silence
those who might object to his leading, when the
time arrives, the troops of the British Republic,.
instead of leading the Royal troops against them.
There ain’t no flies on Citizen Wolseley.
Says Peudragon :
My pulse would not beat a strode faster or a strode
slower if to-morrow I learned that capital puhishmerit
was to be entirely abolished in these islands. 'VVe doif t
hang people who commit the most abominable offences;
imaginable, and in most cases the murderers we do hamr
are not nearly so bad as the murderers we reprieve;
therefore no noticeable good or overwhelmingly sufficient
reason can be given for continuing the practice of hang-
ing, more especially as no one in his senses really believes
that hanging is or ever was a deterrent of crime."
That ill-fated publication, the Daily-
Graphic, devotes the front page of a recent num-
ber to a picture of Tummy shaking hands with
Emperor william. Many of Tummy’s military
decorations are concealed by a martial cloak, but
four medals and a couple- of glittering stars are
plainly visible on the chest of his general’s uni-
form. And to dignify such revolting rot as this a
penny illustrated paper is let looseupon the unhappy
.Anglo-Saxon race ! , :


One Ennis, an unqualified practitioner,
charged at Rockhampton with fraudulently ap-
pending to his name the title “ pleaded,
through his attorney, that “M.D.” in his case only
signified “Money l)own,” and had no other
meaning. As to his F.R.S. —well, that meant
“ Fosterer of Real Science.” His “Q.H.8.” stood
for “ Queensland Herbalist Botanist, ’’and as for the
“L.C.M.G.Q.” that denoted “Late Curator
Maryborough Gardens, Queensland.” The Bench
said that this yarn was a perfect insult to its in-
teliig.mce, and fined Dr. Innes, M.D., F.R.S.,
(}.H.8., L.C.M.G.Q., £2O and £3 10s. costs, or
six months in H.M.G.
Wolfe's Schnapps should he in every house.
[?]
846 Macquarie-street North, Sydney, May 28,1890.
My Dear Moorabinda,—
At the recent Sydney vice-regal reception on May 22nd
scarcely one woman in ten had eyes to see that Lady
Oarington wore a blue shot-silk skirt with bronze design?
visite in black velvet and lace with passementerie and
bonnet of blue chiffon, cream lace, blush roses, and gold
basketwork crown—simply because Mrs. Brown-Potter
was present, for if individual society had been gifted
•with Argus’s full complement of peepers it would have
borrowed another set for the purpose of swallowing up
in a fixed, remorseless glare every detail, from Mrs.
8.-P.'s curls on top to her patent leather-boots. Mrs.
Potter likes to go forth in decided “ dishability ” when off
the chain, and I don’t blame her. It must be nice, afte r
steering Worth of Paris round all night, keeping him
clear of possible tacks and split beer behind the scenes,
and always sitting carefully in the same creases, to get
into a real rag that a brickflelder followed by a Scotch
mist couldn’t damage to speak of. For she wore a long,
groggy gaberdine of a weary brownish hue in a small
checked woollen, made perfectly plain with full sleeves
to the wrist, over a kilting round the feet of dark brown,
Cuffs and vest of greenery-yallery tinsel-braid—a long
spring-green sash supporting her hypochondria—but
society dropped its lower jaw when it got to her hat. It
was a big brown velvet scoop like the business end
of a coal-scuttle adorned with sugar-loaves of
brown and green velvet with a curtain - ring on
top, and where one’s prejudices expected a material
crown behold tufts of the curly chestnut-hued Potterian
love-locks ! Over this paralyser was worn a Hading veil
in black with black stars and—there you are ! Bustle she
had none, nor did additional cotton-wool bestow a more
wavy outline than that gifted by niggard Nature. In her
long, sere, limp, lank gown, with her crucifix-shaped
figure, she looked for all the world like a sign-post in a
sepia sketch, and for once the wardrobes of local loveli-
ness gained by comparison with M rs. Brown-Potter’s. Of the
other gownings, Miss Watts-Phillips wore crimson cash-
mere ribbon with clusters of crimson pansies ; Mrs.
George Rignold, black velvet and brocade mantle edged
with fur, black lace bonnet with a pink rose upon it ; Miss
Bessie Rignold, electric-blue cashmere with coachman
cape and sash of velvet en suite, velvet hat; Mrs. Julian
Ashton, Indian red and black velvet with a touch of
yellow in her black lace hat ; Miss Walenn, navy-blue
with low-feathered hat; Miss Hoffnung, Indian red cloth
with black moire sash and a jelly-mould-shaped hat in fawn
felt; a girl in saffron cloth trimmed with bands of violet
velvet with capote of violets, looked charming, and the
chief eyesore of the place wore blaring tartan checks.
Then the Baron, who conversed in a Calm, gubernatorial
way with Mrs. Brown-Potter, wore a blue tie, as usual ;
and Brother Rupert evidently had received the impression
that creased bags were de rujueur.
I think that the frock feature of the coming School of
Industrj’ ball in Sydney Exhibition Building, on 17th
prox., will be strictly floral, since several gowns which the
wearers revealed to me recently were very flowery con-
fections indeed. One, now in course of construction, is
in fish-grey crepe with chatelaine trails of buttercups,
said trails being achieved by mounting the blossoms on
long pieces of string to match them in colour, and relieved
with maidenhair. Another, in salmon-pink, will have a
garland of cream and saffron roses and ferns coming from
the right shoulder, caught on the left hip, and falling to
the edge of the skirt. By the way, if any girl would
rather wear fresh natural flowers than the stiff artificial
variety, ajl she has to do, or get a florist to do, is to bind
moss round the stalks, which should be damped before
starting. The flowers will keep quite perky all the
evening if this precaution is taken.
Speaking of frocks. They say that it is most amusing
to watch the quibblings of the scribesses in a certain
Australian city over the gowning of a distinguished lady,
who hag a funny little way of wearing the same clothes
until ever.i body is tired. They cannot describe the same
get-up week in and week out, so they simply alter the
colour to suit the exigencies of the situation. For in-
stance, if the gown is crimson, one week it is red—another
‘‘gladiator”—another scarlet, with different verbal jug-
glings over the drapery; and so everybody is pleased,
especially the lady herself, who must often fee! quite
astonished at the changeful properties of her well-worn
garment.
Speaking of music induces me to mention with a damp
tear that “ Tommy” Gilpin has gone over to Melbourne to
join a—minstrel troupe ! How we do love music to be
sure, when one of the best baritones in Australia has to
give up high-class aspirations and cork his face and sing
sickly ballads of the “ Oh ! Down the Dell when three Stars
were Shining ” order, while Tottie Redlegs changes for her
masher act! But’twas ever thus. Even Marion Bnrton-
who commenced as, an icy warbler of icy classics, has been
forced into fleshings. 1 wonder how long the stoical Mrs,
Vanderveer Greene will be able to keep out of tights!
Flushed with the mild monetary margin left from the
recent orchestral concerts in Sidney, when Hazon gave
his services gratis, and Churchill Otton looked after the
“house” without money and without price, a crowd of
enthusiasts headed by Governor Oarington and Mayor
Burdekin assembled and gathered together at the Town
Hall on 19th inst. to endeavour to inaugurate n third
series. They passed a resolution appointing a committee
of fifty-six ladies and gentlemen “ with power to add,” &c.
who are bound over to carry round the subscription-
list while they steal in on the nod ; and when they—that
is, the speakers—got ciphering, it transpired that £l6OO
must be rendered by the nation for the incidental expenses
of twenty concerts, and that as 800 subscribers at two
guineas would compose that total, all present were
MWSfI) implored to make n personal effort in favour of
the good cause. Lady Oarington has lent herself actively
to the movement, and has promised to do her best for its
advancement, and as the Baron has also expressed a warm
practical interest in the musical welfare of his subjects, a
third orchestral series is a matter of course.
The enthusiastic Minister for Education Oarruthers has
decided that one or two ladies upon each N.S.W. School
Board would lend “tone” to an institution that wants it
much. It is thought that the knowledge that two or
three local tabbies are actively interested in the number
of patchfes on their pants or knots on their pinafores will
“promote the happiness ” of the stoical “ public ” pupil,
and that the teachers, especially the young and pretty
ones, would much rather appeal on any little matter to a
female Pumblechook cut out of deal than to a nasty, pre-
judiced man. It is further inferred that “children
especially would feel their responsibility for good be-
haviour did not end with the school boundaries when
they knew that their elders in the community” had
their eagle eye on them—which means that when
Janey, after howling over the three R.s, is loose and happy
in the gutter with her mud-pie, a she-Boarder will loom
large and lift her out of her Elysium by her ear and rub
her nose with a new cotton handkerchief and read her a
homily and send her home to her mother. Of course
women on the various local boards will “ fill a long-felt
want,” but I hope the average suburban lady philanthro-
pist of frozen sympathies and gimlet eye won’t be elected
simply because she can blather about the “ pore heathen ”
and keeps a coachman. And I hope, too, that in spite of
the splintering the motion got at the January conference,
a “female inspector of sewing” will be one of the reforms
insisted upon.
The Women’s College movement is hastening very
slowly beside the Beautiful Harbour. Paper promises are
more numerous than cash results in the collectors’ neat
little booklets, and the Influential Committee is preparing
for a tough struggle. A “circular bee” was held at a
member’s house in Macquarie-street recently, when a
dozen enthusiasts got all over ink directing prospectuses
to the various likely addresses which another batch groped
for in the directory. Then they sat down to await the
result of their industry. At latest advices they were still
wxiting
A large, partially-dressed audience, with a flower in its
hair, assembled at the Orpheus Society’s concert at
Sydney Y.M.C.A. on 21st iust., when a white spotted
muslin gown in soft folds, with epaulettes of violets,
looked sweetest of anything within my range of vision ;
while a soft prune velvet with a zig-zag silver design was
neat, if not gaudy ; and a girl with dusky hair spotted
with scarlet houvardia got there at once. On the stage,
which was the same arid, curtainless, plantless waste in-
variable at Y.M.C.A. Hall, Mrs. Vanderveer Greene
was charming in black with Medici collar in black bugles
and a kind of Marie Stuart capote of pink roses ; but the
other lady vocalisvr 1 ; a cream silk, were reminiscent of a
dip into the lucky bag, and sang as if the resemblance had
struck them, too, before starting, and shrivelled up their
souls, as it were. As to the programme, for a concert
where there was a good percentage of the msthetically-
unsaved, the bill was far too high-toned. Kowalski’s
interpretation of Chopin’s E Minor Concerto was one of
the triumphs of the evening, while the string quartet
performed by Allpress, Wentzel, Rice and Strauss made
one regret the inflexible rules forbidding encores. In the
“scratch section,” Mrs. Vanderveer Greene gave the
“ Che faro ” from Gluck’s “ Orfeo ” as if she were deciding
whether to have her new gown cut bias or not; and
Daddy Hallewell was sometimes very shaky on his vocal
pins in “ Ring Out Wild Bells." Instrumentally, the con-
cert was simply gorgeous.
Says a Sydney fashion journal with the air of one about
to make a daringly original statement: “ Any woman can
look fresh and clean, and it constitutes a wholesome
attraction. Throw away greases and perfumes, wash well,
rinse thoroughly, rub briskly, and in a little time your
personality will suggest itself more subtly and more
delicately than it can by aid of any special perfume.'. 1
Which is sound sanitary advice leading up to an erroneous
hypothesis, since the quickest way of “ suggesting ” your
“ personality ” is to eschew soap and water altogether.
But what must local society be coming to when a fashion
paper furnishes its readers with plans and specifications of
How to Take a Bath !
The committee of the Sydney Eastern Suburbs Amateur
Athletic Association intend doing their best to socially
entertain the Maori and Queensland “flyers” who are
here to compete at the Championship Meeting at the
Association Ground on this Saturday. On June 2nd a
theatre-party to witness “Mdlle. de Bressier;” June 3rd, a
smoke-concert, when the trophies and prizes will he pre-
sented ; with a ball at Nithsdale on the 9th. By the way,
the Colonial Secretary has decreed that “every courtesy
shall be shown the visitors desiring admission to the
various public buildings.” This sounds ominous.
As a deep and solemn warning to those women—revered
by the great tribe of shopmen—who come in and order
down a bale of blankets from the top shelf, feel them
scornfully, and ask the price, then go to another victim
and have him pawing under the counter for a particular
sort of tooth-brush which they pull half the bristles out
of, price, and then fade gently away to the millinery de-
partment to fit a cream-laoe bonnet on a dusty head, tie
the strings in two places, twirl it dubiously on a dirty
glove, and ask the price—let these, I say. take warning*
The other day a woman “suspected of being merely a
pricer,” was ejected from a “ drapery,’ 1 Just as she was
about to say for the hundredth time “ And what did you say
was the price ?” an enraged counter-jumper seized her by
the hair and dumped her on the kerb to coo! Of course
she got damages. That’s the worst of it. If the worm
turns now-a-days he finds a legal shark busily assessing
his revolution.
Lady Charles Scott’s reception at Admiralty Hruetf
North Shore, on 23rd inst. was attended by over six
hundred people and was, I believe, rather nice while the
weather didn’t come down. As the day looked threaten-
ing your Sappho did not brave the frantic wobblings of the
penny ferry in a howling westerly, but stopped severely
at home, and when Maud returned in a horrible rage with
two inches of greasy mud round her hems.
Per neat little circular I see that Manly Social Assem-
blies are going to have their season in the local Oddfellows
Hall. Five monthly dances will be held, and as the
subscription-list is only two guineas they will probably
want barriers to keep the patronage out.
Yours affectionately,
SAPPHO SMITH.
CORRESPONDENCE
“ J.D.” (Bourke) : Too verbose “Reader”:
Beach and Ilanlan rowed three championship races, one
on the Nepean, and a match on the Parramatta for a
money stake. Pour races in all “Bendigo”: We
dealt with your “Moses” already....“ Will Carter”:
Verses not without ability but incoherent “ A. 8.”
(Melb.) : Thanks “ Bokakkah” ; Subject has been
dealt with so often and so variedly that there is little new
light to he thrown on it. Anyhow, we’d prtefer something
brighter in tone. Returned “Gunhower”: Not
suitable... “Coorong”: Faculty worth cultivation....
“ Dormio ”: Not in our vein “T. Ellis”: (1.) The
duplicate stands good. (2.) A lessening of importation
does not necessarily imply a lessening of exportation.
(3.) When Tighe sat “Protection v. Preetrade”
mooted “AV.S.D’A.”; Your incendiary verses re-
ceived. The best lines are
Although Dau’l Morgan was shot on the track
He left two mates called Bell and Black.
“ A.8.W,” : The women make the parsons what they are,
and very often the parsons make the women what they
are “ Bathurst” :If a man belongs to a church, he is
bound by the rules of the church so long as he remains in
its communion—just as, being in gaol, he is bound by the
gaol regulations. If a nominal retainer of the Archbishop
of Canterbury or of the Pope plays ducks and drakes with
his religion and neglects its ordinances all his life, he
can’t expect the clergy to come down on their marrow-
bones to him when he is dying. A church-member is
bound by the rules of the game. If he doesn’t like a
church he can leave it and set up a religion for himself
if he isn’t strong enough to get the church-rules altered
to suit his own tastes. What seems to be very badly wanted
in Australia just now is a church with rules which enjoin the
ministers to swing the married women and hug the choir.
.. “S. H.” (Windsor): What was the name of it, please ?
....“R. O.”: We don’t like people who call their own
verse “ poetry ” The privilege of so labelling verse is the
exclusive property, so far as Australia is concerned, of
about three living persons “Camoense”: Much chaff,
little wheat..., “ L.W.A.”: Metre rocky ; subject done to
death, anyhow “Honest Ned”: Your fine faculty for
mis-spelling may yet gratify your aspirations for a J.P.
ship, but unless you are also a pious toady and a certifi-
cated three-bottle man, it is by no means a moral
certainty “Why certainly”: In writing leg-verse
look after your feet “ Atlee A.H.”:You haven’t yet
sent us the information “Da Capo ” : Your statement
that bank shareholders are “ drawing 25 per cent,
dividends ” doesn’t apply to the great majority, who are
getting, say, 8 per cent, at the very outside. The
original shareholders of lucky hanks or their heirs are, no
doubt, doing enormously well, but not so those who
have bought shares at the heavy premiums current
“ Bundaberg ”: We don’t see how they can reasonably
hang Barry, the jury having been obviously coerced.
Even if they weren’t the judge went through the formula
of coercing them. .. “ John Floyd ” (Mount Murchison) :
Have you yet got redress? “Marcus”: Yes, Mel-
bourne tramway-guards and drivers have the eight-hours
system. Any overtime is allowed in the time of
another day....“ F.W.” (Ourimba) : Many thanks ...
“ W.J.8.” ; Will look it up .. “ St. Mungo” (Richmond):
We don’t know of any, and we really can’t tell you the
date. If you can ascertain it we’ll try and get you a copy.
“ Wingen ” : No Chinaman can become a citizen of the
United States.... “ J.W.K.” :We don’t remember it, but
will inquire “Napoleon”: Josephine (Rose-Tascher
de la Pagerie) was born and reared in Martinique, so her
father was probably a planter. Her first husband,
Vicomte Beauharnais, was father of Eugene, and Hor.
tense, the mother of Napoleon HI. Josephine narrowly
escaped the guillotine during the Reign of Terror
“ S.H.” (Victoria) : “The worse for you” and “ Recon-
sidered ” are meritorious. As for the others, the W.P.B.
is their only congenial resting-place “A Cameron”:
Internal Preetrade and external Protection ; yes. Of
course it is prohibitive, but by no means a tax on bread
and meat.
Sir Crichton Brown asserts that the average
Englishman’s brain weighs 4i)oz., the average
Scotchman’s, 50oz.
A Ceylon practitioner writes to an Indian
medical journal to say that he knows from per-
sonal experience that the pangs of childbirth are
not so great in the local sanatorium as at
Colombo.
The seven women who took their own lives
in Siberia lately to escape the misery of their con-
dition were all Jewesses. Forty thousand men
and women are yearly exiled to Siberia by the
Russian Government.
“ The remains of a swagman have been
found in the bush near Falconbridge ; the skull
was missing.” Well, supposing it was. This
doesn’t necessarily prove that poor old Sir Henry
knows anything about Jacob Rick.
“Dear Robert,” wrote the late Duke of
Manchester to his brother once, “ I notice a ridi-
culous report in the newspapers to the effect that
you have become a Roman Catholic. I think it
would be well to contradict it.” He received this
reply: “My dear brother, most reports of this
kind in the newspapers are untrue; this report is
true. —Yours, Robert.”
J. L. Toole, in a corner seat overlooking
the gangway, was a beautiful feature of that open-
ing ceremony in the Victorian Legislative Council.
There he sat beaming devotion upon the half-
scared Hopetoun through his gold-rimmed pane of
glass, yet showing, by a nervous twitching of his
low-comedy mouth every time a titter broke upon
his ear, that he thought these things are badly in
want of more British pomp and circumstance.
Once, indeed, Toole’s sense of what is due to the
Crown received a shock which might have resulted
fatally. A venerable old Guy Fawkes was mum-
bling an inarticulate address, having some alleged
bearing upon the mummery in hand, when a
muffled riot broke out among a towzled mob at
the opposite corner of the gangway. A miserable
creature so far forgot himself as to mutter “ Hats
off in front!” Perhaps he wanted a better view of
the toothless mumbler aforementioned. In an
instant the beam in Toole’s eye changed to Hash-
ing fury, and his pane became red as from the rays
of the sun when it sinks in crimson splendour
below the horizon. He nudged his companion’s
arm. a?id groaned “Disgraceful !”
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Theatre Royal “ Mdlle. De Bressier.*
Her Majesty's “ Two Orphans.”
Criterion “ Fun on the Bristol.’
Darungiiurst Skating Kink.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Theatre Royal “Silver King.”
New Bijou “ Joseph’s Sweetheart."
Opera House “ Raul Jones.”
Princess’s .. J. L. Toole’s Finals.
Alexandra “ Private Secretary.”
St. George’s Hall Cogills & Harry Rickards,
Victoria Hall The U.S. Minstrels.
Town Hall Hall6-Neruda Concerts.
Waxworks & Museum Hosts of Attractions.
Over three thousand persons visited Her
Majesty’s on Queen’s Birthnight ; the house was
full at 7.30 pan. Roland Watts-Phillips was de-
servedly much applauded for her speech delivered
among the pretty women and gay gallants of the
dovecage, and the whole performance went like
clock-work from ring-up to curtain come-down.
Stage-falls have been very plentiful in Sydney
lately. At the Royal, performers have been drop-
ping like ripe fruit in all directions for some
weeks. We have had forward falls, backward de-
clensions, and side-long slips-down, but the realism
of William Rignold’s decadence as Jacques—he is
hustled to the ground like an oak uprooted by a
tornado —has never been excelled. “ The Orphans ”
have been so successful that they might very well
hold the boards during the remainder of “ my big
brother’s ” season, but in order to give the public
a taste of his quality in another direction and still
further proof of his versatility, “After Dark,” in
which he will play Old Tom, is in active prepara-
tion. Should that good old Boucieaultian drama
possess drawing power when William Rignold’s
engagements compel him to go on tour then
Brother George, braving the possibility of un-
favourable comparisons, will step into his shoes.
At Sydney Royal, “La Tosca” was re-
vived for two nights to good business, and on
Wednesday evening “Mdlle. de Bressier” was
staged for the first time in Australia. In Herman
Merivale’s translation of Delpit’s drama, known
in England, we believe, as “Civil War,” Mrs.
Potter and Kyrle Bellew have already played
together for over 400 nights, so that we may expect
to see the lady at her very best. Edward Sass
plays the part originally filled by Fernandez, and
Jenny Watt-Tanner (whose engagement will
materially strengthen the company) occupies that
which then fell to Amy Roselle. On June 7,
J. L. Toole comes to the front with “ Ici on Parle
Erancais ” and “A Fool and His Money.”
* * *
At Sydney Gaiety “Judge Not,” which
might be more fitly called “Jug not that ye be not
Jugged,” is one of these modern melodramatic
incoherencies which start out for nowhere and
inevitably get thar. The characters, like star-
gazing mullet, are forever bobbing-up when least
expected from a Parramatta full-filled with emo-
tional jelly-fish only to fall back with a purpose-
less “ woosh ” into the turbulent tide of tommy-
rot. Our old stage - friend, Alice Deorvvyn,
whom we remember originally as a shapely
page, has got most of the grease, and, but for her
habits of rolling her eyes like the marbles in a
puzzle, and chewing her words as if she liked
them, would get more out of her part than the
author was able to put in it. Sophie Harris on
this occasion is the boarding-house serf who has
more smut on her nose than beneath her finger-
nails ; she “looks nice” all the time, and has
spasmodic intervals of meritoriousness. None of
the other ladies have much to do except Chris-
tine Tennyson, who painfully accentuates the
illimitability of her oral orifice with a very ver-
milion hand-painted dado. Walter Howe, as
the hero, a shiftless , person whose reasons for
daring to be alive are never divulged to the
audience, is a much-safad-papered-down George
Rignold, who endeavours to lend individuality to
his performance by raising Iris eyebrows and talk-
ing proudly along his chin. When disguised by
hair and rags he plays a drunken Irishman, he
has his best show and makes the most of it. Robert
Inman, for sometime past an outman, speaks his
lines forcibly and intelligently; Jas. S. Lyle, as a
scarcely sober person in our vicinity truthfully
but vulgarly remarked, “is the dead-spit of
Jimmie Allison,” and Frank Hawthorne is accept-
able as a dude, don’t-you-know. As Kyrle Warner
Brown, Harry Leston (he took the part at short
notice owing to the illness of Holloway), is a source
of giggle and guffaw all the time, and his efforts
will probably prevent this “ powerful drama ”
from falling flat.
** # #
A contingent from the Brough-Boucicault
company open at Sydney Criterion in opposition
to Johnny Toole, on June 7 in the “Parvenu,”
by G. W. Godfrey, author of the “Queen’s Shi!
ling,” a play first produced at London Court
Theatre in 1880. On this occasion Gee. W.
Anson (his part was written for and “created”
by him), “Dot” Boucicault (also an “original ”
in a character he impersonated for over 300
nights), Lyndal, Titheradge, G. L. Gordon, Pattie
Brown, Emma Temple, and Mrs. T. Bolton, sur-
rounded by Spong and Churchwood’s scenery, will
face the footlights and a warm welcome.
* * * *•
Business has been so evenly good at Sydney
Criterion that “ Fun on the Bristol ” will probably
run right through the season. They had a great
house on Her Gracious’ official birthday, when
Gracie Whiteford’s “Little Slate” went with
much vim, and despite the guaranteed indigesti-
bility of the Widdy’s “Home Made Pie” the
audience vociferously demanded more.
** * *
At Darlinghurst Skating Rink amateur
races have created some excitement during the
week. The final heats will be contested on Satur-
day evening, when the gold and silver medals will
be presented. “Ladies’ special nights ” are made
a wholesome feature at this popular rink.
■* * * *
A last farewell revival of “The Private
Secretary,” at Melbourne Alexandra, is being re-
ceived with joy so unconfined that the approach-
ing departure of that apparition in go-loshes, like-
wise the threatened abdication of “Uncle” Har-
wood, are matters to be deplored more than many
other alleged calamities which agitato the body
SJitic of this growing country. The humour of
everend Spalding is founded upon a rock, for as
long as the snuffle of the Anglican curate is heard
in the land he will remain a faithful caricature of
a weak-minded British institution s
Let arts and commerce, laws and lords decay—
The worm-like curate ne’er shall pass away.
Cattermole, moreover, is an enduring type
of uncle from India, a country which has been
turning out such relatives ever since Sheridan


A GHOST
is not a photograph, nor a photo, a ghost—but a good photo, is a
true reflection of the original. For high-art photos, go to the
London Palace of Art, 10 Park-street, Sydney. Country photographers’ work from developemen
to completion executed at lowest prices. Bromides a speciality, Staff of artists kept, for working up.
produced Oliver Surface for a model. For the
rest, “Private Secretary” is lively, even in the
absence of the two leading characters, and the
present company show a considerable improve-
ment on the Bijou performance of some 18 months
ago. Mr. Eille Norwood’s song was considered to
partially justify his conduct in having stolen his
Christian name from lovely woman, while old
friends like Cates, Charlie Brown and Miss Annie
Taylor took each a fair share of the triumph for
which Harwood and Frank Thornton were mainly
responsible, as of yore.
** * *
A slight tendency to go as they please and
to sling in a few unbridled embraces is demoralis-
ing recent performances of 14 Paul Jones. ” But as
the majority of the audience are seeing the opera
for a second or third time, very likely new bits of
business serve to remind them that the old ones
were best. In order to let her admirers down
softly Miss Nellie Stewart announced “the last
weeks’' of “Paul Jones,” which had the Opera
House crammed again on Saturday night.
The Princess's was far from being crammed
by “The Don,” and the reduction of fees for
dress-circle seats has been received with stony in-
difference by a tired-out sassiety. In last week’s
I’.ri-LKTi.v it was suggested that “The Don”
might, under improved conditions, be made to
hum in Sydney. Further consideration of this
dreadful work, however, convinces one that it
ought to have a millstone fastened round its neck
and be dropped into the burning lake, whereto,
stretched out huge in length, the arch-fiend lay
chained (according to Milton) until Providence
allowed him to get up and blast our lives in the in-
terests of true religion. It is, doubtless, because
“The Don ” has impaired J. L. Toole’s reputation
more than any other item in his repertoire that the
management insists upon the thing’s enormous
success. No matter, “Artful Cards” will be
revived to-night (Thursday) and rapid changes of
comedies will eke out the season until next Thurs-
day, when the star concludes his twinkle with a
benefit. It doesn’t take an actor long to establish
a claim upon the love and gratitude of a new
country, nor is there any reason why a well-to-do
man should not encourage his “ friends ” to ante-
up a trifle for the privilege of his acquaintance.
** * *
Other Melbourne shows are passing peace-
fully hence. At the Bijou they have made
arrangements to produce “Joseph’s Sweetheart,”
and Lady Booby will waste her battery of charms
upon the unresponding Joe next Saturday nicdit.
“After Dark,” which has held out for the pre-
dicted three weeks, gives way to “Silver King”
at the Royal. This over-welcome chestnut will be
Charles Warner’s last, and may be expected to
send him off home ’’ in a blaze of glory, for
Warner is just the right kind of enthusiastic hair-
pin to ask the universe to roll backwards while
he straightens up his crumpled dramatic character.
Harry Rickards, in conjunction with the Coo-ills
keeps rolling on at St. George’s Hall, and an
opposition force of niggers are about to re-open
the v ictoria on the usual unparalleled lines. The
African bushmen tear around for another day or
two at the Waxworks, the Bairnsfather Family
are a mild Scotch success at the Athemeum, the
Cyclorama stands where it did, and the “ Exhibi-
tion of British Art ” is raking in the shillings of
all who spell British with a monstrous big B.
** * *
Amidst a sham jubilation, which diminished
in fury as attendances grew smaller and less soul-
ful, the Halles have been giving their musical
mission services at Melbourne Town Hall. Re-
garded from the low level of average humanity
these concerts appear to be painful attacks of colic,
tempered by occasional spasms of comprehensible
delight, and partially cured by the fine, robust
tenor of Charles Turner. In a minor degree Miss
Anuis Montague assists to drive dull care away
but her sweet tones are produced with more effort
and less result than of yore. Hamilton Clarke,
conductor of the Victorian Orchestra, has esti-
mated that the Melbourne people capable of enjoy-
ing high-class music number less than 500—the
Melbavvne five hundred, doncherknow—and as
such people seldom love anything else —not even
one another—it is well that the cult shows no
signs of increase and multiplication. Madame Nor-
mann-Neruda might, we believe, draw the whole
city tip hear her play “Home, Sweet Home” on
the violin, just as Levey warmed the hearts of
simple multitudes by blowing the “ Last Rose of
Summer ” from his little cornet. Nor lias Charles
Halle, whose tender touch of the piano-keys sug-
gests a patriarch fondling his pet daughter's first-
born, lost the power to fascinate them with a
tangible melody, if he felt so disposed. However,
while these honoured musicians continue to cater
for the select few who profess to under-
stand what it is all about (and usually
don t come unless they can get an order) they
are not likely to be a great success outside news-
P ( a Pf r columns, wherein they are described as
Ihe Knight and the Lady. ” It is positively sad
to see skilful, painstaking artistes ministering to
the cant of musical critiques, when they might be
making noble melody for the benefit of our com-
mon nature and to the consequent glory of God.
Can it be that Charles Halle has lived seventy
years without learning that, although every mail
hath music in his soul, life would be insupportable
m a world full of “ high-class ” musicians ? As for
the after life—do the Knight and his Lady
imagine that the cherubim and seraphim con-
tinually play sonatas?
** # *
Bland Holt baa nmsned his Adelaide
season, revivals of “The Union Jack ” and “ The
a- u j the closing items. The company
disband, but the majority of the members remain
m Adelaide to support Wybert Reeve during a
short season. Maggie Knight, although pressed
to stay, found that the hard work she has un-
doubtedly gone thro’ at Adelaide was too much for
her, and she decided to take a short rest. Edith
blande, I lora Hastings and James Stevenson have
been specially engaged, and “Green Bushes ” will
be the opening piece, with “Lost in London” to
toliow. Harmston’s Circus has made a most satis-
taetory start, and the business is likely to boom.
* * Kf *
Alice Cornwell has been “ mulcted as
enlarged cablegrams put it—in the sum of £5OO
and costs for publishing in advance in her Sunday
Aimes a statement that Terriss, the actor, had
been ‘ coldly received ”in America, Details of
the case, in which one or more ladies were doubt-
less prominent features, will be awaited with some
interest. Terriss is the lawful successor of H. J.
Montague as a stage idol of the sex, and is alleged
to possess a cellarfull of pink love-letters and locks
ot ham. He must be getting grey in the mashing
business now, for a full-grown son of his came
over here with Charles Warner, and is located on
a station somewhereabouts. It was Terriss who
i« ?i. difficulties that formerly beset him
n the capacity of Irving’s jeune premier by saying ;
** you spoon Ellen Terry you get. the sank : and
if you don’t spoon Ellen Terry you get the sack.”
Jr Ac got the sack it was for adopting the former
alternative, we imagine.
** * $
They say that when the real Mokanna of a
certain Melbourne theatre requested a certain
actor to submit his “gags” for approval before
bring them off, the artist signified his intention of
seeing the other party in blazes first. Ain’t it
sick nmg !
** * *
I he verdict of the N.S. W. Supreme Court
in the case of Informer Walker, representing the
associated Sabbatarians of Sydney on the one
pait, and entrepreneur John Solomon, representing
the much-bored-by-Sunday Sydney public on the
other, has been decided in favour of Walker, who
rakes in £2OO and much hallelujah by the process.
Most of the Sydney newspapers profess to disagree
with the clinging to moss-grown landmarks which
makes the decision possible, while agreeing’ that
under the circumstances it was inevitable,
furthermore the S.M. Herald and oer-
fu U \ fu 16 tinco guidgo so far as to declare
that they actually think Sunday recreation of this
kind not altogether “ perneeshus ” so long as it is
kept strictly within the confines of sacred
music. Here the stupid, bigoted, old Conserva-
tive restnctionist bobs boldly up through a very
thm veneer of Liberalism and toleration. Sacred
music, forsooth—-in a secular State ! The Bulle-
tin ventures to assert that all music worthy of the
name when allied to decent words is “ sacred ” in
the highest meaning of the word, because refining
find elevating, and that the laws which prevent
people from resorting to harmless amusements on
huticlay are not aids to morality, but, on the con-
trary, the agents of licentiousness. That our
opinion is largely that of the community was made
evident by the crowds of people that flocked to
Jxmdi Aquarium in response to the invitation of
Manager Wyburd, who—every other place of
entertainment, save and except the churches,
being closed—threw open the grounds and con-
cert-hall to the public and provided in addition a
first-class programme—relying on the Voluntary
contributions of those who attended for reim-
bursement. We have since learned that 8000 souls
visited the Aquarium on Sunday last, and that
the offertory brought in nearly £lOO. Whereat
Wyburd and the directors may shout —Hosanna !
** * *
In “ Sundry Shows ” of last week we had
a paragraph dealing with the eccentric manner
with which the Melbourne Evening Standard
has lately criticised certain shows in that city.
The correspondence beneath, placed at our dis-
posal by Mr. Arthur Garner, sheds a lurid light
on the thusness of the why. The letter addressed
to that gentleman from the Standard office is
similar, we are informed, to those forwarded to
the other Melbournian managers—from whom the
replies were in most, if not all, instances couched
m a similar strain, that of Mr. James MacMahon
being remarkable for its pungent brevity
Dear Sir, I find that, notwithstanding our desire to
remain on friendly terms with the management of the
Princess and Royal Theatres, and to do justice to the
productions of each, they have cut down their advts. to
the lowest possible point, thereby making a marked dis-
tinction between the morning journals and the Evening
Standard. This journal has now been in existence for
12 months, and has a circulation equal to at least two of
the morning papers favoured with the full notices of the
1 lincess and Royal Theatres, so that we are placed in a
position of marked inferiority. It is well known that the
public look for the latest sporting and dramatic announce-
ments in evening papers—a fact recognised by theatrical
managers in Sydney and other Australian cities—Mel-
bourne alone excepted; and the time has arrived when
we are compelled to take a stand in the matter. Until we
are placed on the same footing as the morning papers, no
special notices of performances at the Princess and Royal
Theatres will appear in the Evening Standard, and mem-
hers of our literary staff will be instructed accordingly
and under no circumstances to accept free admission to
either theatre.
. not, of course, for me to dictate how your adver-
tising business should be conducted - I simply protest
against the unfair distinction made between ourselves and
the morning journals, and take the only course open.—
Yours very sincerely,
James Thomson, General Manager.
Arthur Garner, Esq., Princess Theatre.
Dear Sir,— Your letter of April sth which I have re-
ceived in duplicate has certainly astonished me, princi-
cipally on account of its contradictory nature. It appears
to me that you desire to be placed on the same footing
with regard to advertisements as the morning journals
and, at the same time, you are bold enough to assert that
the members of your literary staff will be instructed to
write according to the length of such advertisements—in
other words, you put a price upon your criticisms. This
is indirectly a system of blackmail, which I decline most
emphatically to encourage. If a fair account of the per-
formances at the various theatres is not a portion of
the attraction of your newspaper it comes within
the province of the editor or manager of such
paper to see that the space is not wasted in useless
matter, and the same remark applies to any other public
institution in the colonies. It is quite reasonable that
every man should think his own enterprise the best; at
the same time I beg to differ from you with regard' to
the position your paper holds in the estimation of the
public, so far as regards theatrical news. I consider the
simple announcement in the evening papers quite suffi-
cient for my business, consequently shall not make any
alteration. During my twenty years’ experience I have
frequently had similar letters to yours, but the writers
have never claimed any respectable position for their
journals. I note your wishes with regard to your staff,
and have instructed the treasurer to remove their names
from the free list. Regretting the circumstances, vours
faithfully,
T (signed) Arthur Garner.
James Thomson, Esq., Evening Standard.
* * #
Moral : Never use your pen in public
when better work can be done by your tongue in
private. Likewise, never say what you are going
to do, but do it. If you and your paper are
stronger than Jobson or Smiffkins and his theatre,
the latter’s necessities will ultimately drive him to
you; but as man, and especially the man who
manages a theatre, is combative, he cannot be
easily coerced. You can no more coerce people into
advertising largely or at all in a paper where they
don’t think they get value than you can coerce
them into reading a paper which they dislike.
Besides, if you threaten a manager, jhe can kick
back. Everyone remembers old George Coppin’s
speech many years ago from the stage in re the
Melbourne Daily Telegraph : “ The Daily
Telegraph chooses to blackguard my show,” said
George, ‘ ‘ but they seem to like it very well for all
that. The ticket-takers tell me that U different
people have been passed in free to-night as repre-
sentatives of the paper I have just named.” A
manager’s speech from the stage is fifty times
more effective, if_ he has a real grievance, than all
the merely malicious ‘‘ commercial criticisms”
that ever were penned.
Everybody now-a-days drinks Wolfe’s Schnapps
Bismarck says that woman may have in-
terests outside the nursery only when men submit
to rock the cradle,
At Poverty Point.
Bill Rignold is playing Jacques in the " Two Orphans,”
“as played by him over 2000 nights in London.”
Of course, the management means 2060 nights in
all, not in one run, as certain persons have chosen
to interpret the statement. The real “ Henry V.”
wasn’t a circumstance to George. “Indeed, my dear sir,
I don’t believe he could have got into my armour. He
was a poor, puny kind of Earl of H. man. He was an
inferior actor; oh, nothing of an artist! Look at his
entry into London, how he bungled it. Compare it with
mine ! Why, I understand he rode a mean little bay cob,
with its bones all sticking out. Compare that with my
wfiite horse . John, is the limelight ready for the
next act ? The moon is to follow me all round the stage,
and if it shines on Miss Montmorency you're lined half-a-
crown.” (Shake hands, George. Excuse our little joke.
You know us.)
Edward Ellis makes a good point in his dramatic
moralisations, showing how Toole cannot play his
favourite piece of the “ Butler,” because it is the property
of Brough and Boucicault, to whom Johnny sold it, with-
out a notion that he would ever come to Australia. Sara
Bernhardt couldn’t even play “La Tosoa” while Potter
and Bellew are about. The Bancrofts sold their Austra-
lian rights for the Robertsonian comedies to Rignold, and
would have to beg them back, if they came.
The Bairnsfather Family, fellows declare,
Are clever—which puzzles us rather;
For where, prithee ! where can a gentleman swear
That he can spot any bairn’s father.
Max Klein, of the Victorian Orchestra, is sufficiently
modest to say that he has to lay down his violin and re-
tire when Norman-Neruda turns up. This is the first in-
stance we have met of one fiddler being better than
another fiddler in that other fiddler’s opinion.
Garner has to say to every London actor : “ Look here,
you know’, that won’t do for Australia. You must put in
more ginger.”
Charley MacMahon has devoted the “ Paul Jones ” pro*
fits to making a beautiful new stage-door at Melbourne
Opera House. It reminds one of the lively actress Ninon
de I’Enclos, at 90 years old, in the new blonde wig she
bequeathed to the chorus.
Garner told ’em, at the Dramatic Association spread,
that Melbourne actors were improvident because they got
so much money, whereupon James Smith got up and
expressed his regret to see so many capable actors inspect-
ing pavements:
Oh, Poverty, where are the charms,
That sages have seen in thy face V
There is a strong contrast in colour between Brown
Potter and Kyrle Blue.
It disconcerts an actor who wears false teeth for them
to fall out during his delivery of a good speech, and it is
unpleasant for his toupet to come off as he dies with his
head towards the audience. We have seen both these
contretemps occur, however, in Australia.
Haugustus Moore has been writing in the ’Awk some
gorgeous verses about Letty Lind. A slab
“ The most innocent fire of thy glance
Turns my head,
Till all else I see is but mist,
And a host
Of mad thoughts make me think that I’ve kissed
But thy ghost.
So dance thou, while I watch thee and cry
Little dove,
That ’twere vain for poor mortal to sigh
For thy love !”
Petticoat emotion, purely.
Spagnoletti: “ I met Sir Charles and Lady Hal 16 quietly
doing the Melbourne streets, just after their arrival oil
the Wednesday. They are a very unpretentious couple.
He in a low-crowned hat and overcoat and smoking a
meerschaum pipe ; Lady Hal 16 on his arm, quietly dressed
in travelling attire, with a white hairy cape. They were
surprised at the Melbourne cold. They are people who
will mix in the musical rather than the Brummagem
world.”
At Auckland, N.Z., according to a local paper, an
elderly chappie in the orchestral stalls passed up to the
stage a small box of choice jewellery. Without a moment’s
hesitation the actress for whom it was meant strode over
to the objectionable present, crushed it to atoms with her
heel, and proceeded with her part.
Chas. B. Hicks opens with his coloured minstrels, at
Sydney Opera House, May 31.
Lady Desart, who left her first husband for love of
actor Sugden, is now endeavouring to obtain a divorce
from the latter.
Patti has built a private theatre at a cost of £12,000 at
her W’elsh home, Craig-y-nos. It will be opened in the
autumn by Henry Irving.
On the opening night of the Carl Rosa Opera Company,
at Drury Lane, the national anthem was loudly and con-
tinuously hissed. The practice is becoming a common
one in Hingland, though the daily press do not report it.
Hermann \ezin imagines that he has discovered a suc-
cessor to Adelaide Neilson. Her name is Laura Johnson—
young, beautiful and impassioned. She was to dehut at
Manchester Comedy in May, supported by Vezin and a
strong company.
John Maddison Morton is just recovering from what
threatened to be an attack of paralysis.
The Ella-Carrington-Charlie-Taylor dramatic company,
now way back in North Queensland, travel with nineteen
performers and eight tons of luggage.
Patti has been hissed off the stage at Valencia because,
in the great duet from “Traviata,” she was not note-
perfect.
Grand Old Maccabe terminated on Monday evening a
most successful Sydney season. Manager George Buller
will now lead the G.O.M. by the warm right-hand down
among the purling milk-pails of Kiama and the con-
tented butter-tubs of Wollongong.
Several physicians and scientists have attested to the
genuineness of Succi’s fast in the columns of London Ecuc
Mesmerist Kennedy, lately in Australia, is showing a*
the Aquarium Theatre, London.
Edna Lyall, authoress of “ We Two,” has declared her*
self to be a Unitarian. She was believed to be an Agnostic.
At London Haymarket, Beerhohm Tree contents himself
with playing the Abb6 in Sydney Grundy’s “A Village
Priest,” allotting to Fernandez and Fred. Terry the lead-
ing parts.
Having made so enormous a sum in the American
winter tour, the Kendals will return to Vankeeland. In
this connection it may be recollected that Dickens was
said to have made £30,000 by lecturing there in eighteen
months.
The Finkelstein only met her Mountford—a widower
with a large family—a fortnight before the marriage took
place, but explains that she had previously met his uncle
in Australia. Good old Finkelstein ! |
A Melbourne minstrel was recently thrown a parcel of
sausages by an admirer. “ Don’t do it again,” he pleaded.
“ If the manager sees you feeding me, he will reduce my
salary.”
Mr. Gilpin’s good-bye smoke-concert at Sydney was a
very successful affair, and served to introduce to the
public Mr. Feldwick, owner of a remarkably fine and
highly-cultured voice. Mr. Gilpin, ere this sees the light,
will be warbling in the “ Victorierall ” (Melbourne). Sydney,
weak in other voices, has a plethora of good baritones just
now. •
Miss Huntington, the symmetrical sweet-voiced con-
tralto who recently paid £lOOO to throw up her part in
“Marjorie,” is said to be six feet high, as strong as
Sandow, and a graduate of some Bostonian feminine
University. Her steel-grey eyes are fierce and cold, her
brows heavy and closely-knit, and in dignity and propriety
she can give Mary Anderson points and a beating. There-
fore, she is not likely to marry a Duke, but, like the cold-
blooded Mary, will probably wed some goodlooking and
wealthy Yank.
Writes D. D.“ When Toole gets back to London
they will find him much improved, merely in having o-ot
back more to his old style. He keeps broadening and
broadening. The success of his Tom Coke gives him the
best line. When “ Little Dr. Cupid ” was put on last
Christmas, Garner tutored Elton, Harwood, and the rest
into the complete London style of the great Tommy
Thorne, and they played that way, just for one night.
The case was the same as with “ The Private Secretary ”
in London. The colours must be laid on thick, or the
play was simply demned. So Elton kept on making his
Dr. Cupid more racy, and what a delicious morsel it was
*t last 1 With all respect and fairness, wo must say
Mton is a better actor than Toole. We appeal to a vote
of hands by any Melbourne audience. Elton is an actor.
Every part is characterised, discriminated. Toole is a
splendid comic lecturer, a sublimation of the impudent
but entertaining guyer Greville.”
Amid discussion on the employment of children in
theatres in Melbourne, reference is made to Mrs. O. B. W.
Lewis (Rose Edouin), who has greatly interested herself
in training young people for the stage. She herself, with
her sisters Eliza and Julia, and her brother Willie, under
the direction of her elder brothers Charley (Mrs. Bryer’s
husband) and John (Tilly Earle’s husband), began as a
child actress, the Edouin family being renowned in that
line. Mrs. Lewis’s most successful pupil is Flora Glraup-
ner, and next to her stands Mrs. George Darrell (Miss
Peachey). The new law interferes with the Duvallis in
their training of ballet children. This legislation in Eng-
land was first stimulated by the circumstance of half-a-
dozen little girls being abducted, many years ago, from
Madame Weiss’s Viennese ballet.
Mr. Moore, Melbourne musician, had a valuable* over-
coat stolen from a concert-room ante-chamber last Decem-
ber, and had the pleasure of stripping it off a larrikin in
the street last week. It is easy for a musician to identify his
coat—it always has so much fur on the collar. The coat
Dunky Gillies lost was a Federation policy, and he found
it on Parkes’ back.
Good old John Billingtou ought to lie up in dock'a bit,
for he has a painful struggle with the grippe. John had
& voice when he used to act “ Rough and Ready.” round
England, but in our foolish modem style he left his wife
at home. No gruel, no little comfits. Can’t even get the
blue flannel tied round his throat properly. Dear old
John !
Johnny Toole tries to toe the line, but they’re doing all
they can to spoil his acting. The latest conspiracy is got
up by the Australian Natives. After Jacky has acted
Aminadab Sleek, and ought to go to bed, he has to gorge
with them—and punish the people who go to see Amina-
dab next night.
Jefferson is coining money in America with his own
company, his takings being £2500 (not dollars) a week,
and he gives W. J. Florence £2OO a week, and Mrs. Drew
£lOO a week. After all, those artistes grumble because
they don’t get enough of the plunder.
One of Letty Lind’s dresses, in “ Ruy Bias,” reads like a
milliner’s dream after a supper of spring onions: it is all
primroses and violets. The skirt is primrose-silk, the
bodice violet velvet, the underskirts in lilac. The corsage
and petticoats are bordered with natural primroses,
violets, and lilac. Delicious! And Letty in the middle
of it, too!
A manager says he is accumulating notes for a most
interesting lecture on the “ Deadhead,” who never smiles,
never applauds, and always runs down the show, whereas
the man who pays his bob is delighted. When Lottie, the
lady gymnast—the sort of thing the Press, which is very
human, likes exhibited in Melbourne, the manager
declared that 120 editors and reporters came one night,
and the result of their united labours in all the papers
next morning was—three lines.
It is said that an atrocious and malicious lie by the re-
porter of an Opposition Melbourne paper once spoilt
Copprn’s election for Richmond. The good people had
insisted that Coppin must break with the stage, but the
reporter made the opening sentence of his speech, “ Here
we are again !” Coppin had promised to ding the boards,
and the good people said, “ It’s no good. The old clown !"
Taylor and Onzalo’s Circus, Melbourne suburbs, robbed
of a trick horse and a trick pony. Too low down—the
poor spotted horse will be found doing the round-and-
round, puddle-machine-like business at a woodyard. And
poor little Beeswing, the pony, will descend to bottle-oh !
Dan Barry has knooked them at Wagga, where he is an
old favourite, with the “Parson’s Oath.”
Lady Carington will be present at Miss Menk-Meyer’s
sixth recital at Sydney Y.M.C.A. on 3rd June.
The comfort of a sister’s love
Can make this earth as Heaven above,
Where harps are played and trumpets blown—
That’s, if the sister’s not our own.
William O’Brien’s novel, “When we were
Boys together,” opens well. The preliminary
chapters sparkle with epigram, and the scene
where Lord Drumshauglin’s agent, on his way to
the County Sessions, gets left, in a double sense,
by the engine-driver of the Gorrindinny railway,
quite Leverian in its genial humour. That
O’Brien, with the wear and tear on him of political
controversy and party journalism, could have pro-
duced this book is a notable fact.
It was at a Protectionist meeting in the
N.S.W. back-blocks, and Parkes’ public and
private character had been cauterised in good
style by speakers who had duly catalogued the
many iniquities of the chameleonic old man. A
Protectionist M.P. stood up to protest. “ Look
here, gentlemen,” he said, “ let us stick strictly
to politics—hang people’s private characters ! ”
Then arose one of the more elderly boys. “Our
friend,” sez he, “ is quite right in what he’s just
told us, it’s railly no good going into people’s
private characthers. There’s seven good men in
the Ministhry although they are Freetraders.
Sir Hinry, we can’t wipe it out, is a statesman ;
that we know to our cost. Thin, there’s Mr,
Bruce Smith, a native like ourselves, a man of
ability and shtrong will and high integrity, who
forms careful and impartial decisions and can’t be
dhriven like a pig. Thin, as to Treasurer M‘Millan,
we find in him a clever man whose word will be
taken without a schrap o’ writin’ in Sydney
beyant. As to Mr. Carruthers, though Oi’m not
in favour of the Education Act, I must admit
he’s doin’ well wid it, providin’ prizes and bur-
saries for the sons of poor min like ourselves.
Then Mr. Brunker, as ye all know, is as honest a
man as ever sold a head of stock, an’ Oi’ve always
found Mr. G. B. Simpson, the Attorney-General,
a most courteous and clear-headed man. That
makes six. Thin, as for Misther O’Connor,
Misther Gould and Misther Sydney Smith they’re
a pretty good man—and that makes se v “ D’ve
moind me now ? ”
Mr. B. R. Wise’s circular to the a.N.A,
has a sub stratum of common-sense, but there
is an element of comedy in its communica-
tion to a society which the public opinion of
Federated Australia will take an early opportunity
of knocking on the head, or of so altering that
its own fathers won’t know it. A body which is
the narrowest and most exclusive of the many
narrow and exclusive associations which curse the
colonies, is not the one to entrust with the publica-
tion of a paper which shall wisely educate Aus-
tralians as to the nature of federal institu-
tions. And, by the way, Mr. Wise overlooks
the fact that the A.N.A. have an “ organ ”
already. Or, has it gone the way that all
press weaklings which exist on subsidised pap
go ? This little sheet, when edited by a vice-
president of the “ order,” refused insertion to a
temperate article by a practised journalist, urging
the society to enlarge its basis, on the ground
that “ the constitution of the Association was
fixed !” Fancy the idea of presumably sane young
Australians voluntarily placing themselves on a
Procrustean bed! Fancy these same creatures
shaping the destinies of a nation as BTer Ring-
nose wishes them to do ! The synopsis of “ points”
on which Wise would like the people tp be edu-
cated is fairly complete, but we would suggest an
addition—namely, the desirability of abolishing
titular “distinctions’ and courtesy “forms”
(save the simple designations of public office)
throughout the Federation. This point isn’t one
of detail merely. There is a solid principle under-
lying it. If embodied with the constitution it
would preclude a prince—as a prince—holding a
vice-regal appointment, and would, as a matter of
fact, form the thin end of the Republican wedge.
Perhaps, however, Mr. Wise isn’t a Republican.


A,SAUNDERS,
Watches and Jewellery are like good wives—they are*
worth having.
Send for Illustrated Price List. Post Free.
813 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
(Nearly opposite Railway Station).
Factories: Liverpool and London, England.
£2 10s. English Lever, Two Years’ Guaranteed.
£3 10s. English Lever, “The Unequalled,” full cap.
£4 English Lever, “ The Special,” compensated.
20/- The Unequalled Keyless Watch. 20/-
1
Country Residents and Visitors to Sydney call or sent?
o A. SAUNDERS, 813 George Street (nearly opposite?
Railway Station), SYDNEY.
Ask for Wolfe’s Schnapps and take no other.
Old-fashioned Jewellery modernised to perfection. De-
signs free. Daiims and Co., King-street Arcade.
The United States is a nation of traders. Two-
, thirds of the business men of the Republic use
•} Estkrbrook’s “Falcon” Pen. Samples free at
all Stationers.
Use Batho’s Bakin? Powder.
Recommended by doctors —Wolfe’s Schnapps.
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
The Professional and Literary men 6f London
give their preference to Estkrbrook’s “ Relief ”
Pen. It is a swift and easy writer, and preserves
the characteristics of the hand. Samples free at
all Stationers.
Advise your friends to drink Wolfe’s Schnapps.
Wolfe's Schnapps—the ladies appreciate it.
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
•Reliable Watch Repairs. Dahms & Co., King-st. Arcade
Ki-Lee’s Dog.
A Tin-Country Sketch.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
The scene was a part of the Pine Ridge
tin-field, and the accessories were : A windlass
mounted on about ten feet of logs, and a correspond-
ingly high heap of mullock on one side, but no
wash-dirt on the other, thus showing that the
shaft was not bottomed. A Chinaman on top wind-
ing up a leathern bucket of dirt, and another
Chinaman below, filling another bucket. A one-
eyed, humorous-looking dog appeared from behind
a heap of dirt, looked inquiringly at the China-
man on top, gave a joyful bark of recogni-
tion, and was alongside of him in an instant,
wagging his remnant of tail in a most agitated
manner, and smiling, in fact, laughing from ear to
ear with pure joy. He licked Ki-Lee’s clay-
encrusted moleskins and yelled himself hoarse
with excitement. But Ki-Lee didn't “pan out”
to any appreciable extent. He waited till he got
the bucket up, and then, in pure Cantonese,
ordered Hoo to go home immediately, if not
sooner. But Hoo didn’t go. He plainly preferred
being where he was, that is, until his right eye ob-
served Ki-Lee stooping for a stone. Then Hoo
retired somewhat hurriedly, but nevertheless
regretfully, behind a mullock-heap. When Ki-
Lee was again engaged at the windlass Hoo re-
appeared, and endeavoured, but fruitlessly, to
come to some amicable arrangement. No good ;
nothing but an instant return home to mind the hut
would satisfy his master. And Hoo was so fond
of his master that he was the unhappiest dog on
earth when out of his sight. So he did not obey,
but hung round the shaft all day, as usual, and
followed Ki-Lee home in the evening as closely as
he dared, in spite of the withering scorn w'th
which his advances were reviewed.
* # «
Now, Hoo had behaved in this ridieuious
way. fooling about round the shaft or wherever
Ki Lee might be, instead of staying at home
minding the hut, ever since he had come into Ki-
Lee’s possession. And Ki-Lee’s wrath was fairly
kindled at last. He could stand it no longer.
What was the good of keeping and feeding up a
dog that wouldn’t stay at home (unless Ki-Lee
stayed, too) even for half-an-hour ? And it was
no use tying him up,
either ; Ki-Lee had tried
that —Hoo’s neck was so
thick and his head was so
small that he unshipped
his collar just when he
liked. And then off he
would go in a bee-line to
Ki-Lee, no matter where
he was ; and stones and
clods of dirt, and abuse
and thrashings were
equally ineffective to drive
him away. Hoo would
only slink out of sight foi
a little while to recover
hii equanimity, and then
there he was again with
his foolish four inches of
tail waggling with dazz
ling rapidity, and the
same old affable, affec-
tionate grin on his face,
which seemed to say,
“ It’s all right, boss,
you didn’t hurt me;
don’t be alarmed, I can
stand it !” It was quite
funny to see him, but
Ki-Lee had no sense of
humour, and Hoo only
exasperated him. So
that evening he told Sun
Lun, his mate, that he
was going to kill Hoo,
because he was no good,
and wasn’t worth h is keep.
Sun Lun intimated, in
colloquial Chinese, that
Ki-Lee could poison,
drown, shoot, or cremate
Hoo, and eat him after-
wards, so far as he was
concerned ; Hoo wasn’t
his dog. So Ki-Lee
concluded to drown him,
andwentoutand whistled
hint up, and tied his legs, . . „ ,
and started off for a shaft with water in it. But
on the way he met old Ned, the hatter, going home
front his work, and Ned prevailed on Ki-Bec to
give him the dog. Ki-Lee was glad to be rid ot
the beast, and returned to the hut with gladness
imprinted on his expressive countenance.
# * *
Sun Lun and Ki-Lee had been doing very
badly of late. They had bottomed several
“ duffers,” and were now engaged in sinking a
shaft which was to lie the “last try.’ If R
proved bad, they had decided to abandon the
bock they were working and leave the field
altogether. And it seemed more than probable that
th,-ir present effort was doomed to be another
failure. So their hearts were sad, but Sun Lun,
the junior partner, had a little project in view
which, when carried out, would, he hoped, leave
him not altogether destitute. This was simply a
scheme to take advantage of Ki-Lee’s absence
some time, “ put pincher ” on all the valuables
in the hut and abscond. There wasn’t, a great
deal to steal, certainly, but Sun Lun knew of a
little-plant of sovereigns that Ki-Lee had in a
salmon-tin under the stone of the fireplace, and
that was surely worth some trouble to obtain. So
Sun Lun was merely waiting for Ki-Lee to leave
him an opening by absenting himself for a short
while to do the vanishing trick, and leave his be-
lovgS partner in possession only of the ground and
the prospective “duffer.”
Next morning the partners were awakened
by a scratching at the door, and when it was-
opened Hoo appeared,* in his usual state of excite-
ment and with his usual joyous grin. Of course
he had got loose from Ned’s place, and made
tnsoks at once for his only love, Ki-Lee. Ki-Lee
was extremely annoyed. He made a stubborn
resolve that he would “ best ” that dog or die. So
he caught poor Hoo, put him in a three-bushel
bag, tied the mouth of the bag, and hung it to the
inside of the roof. Then he, lammed into the
imprisoned Hoo with a shovel. When he con-
sidered that the ends of justice had been attained,
he unhooked the dog and carried him off to Ned’s,
leaving him there with his martial cloak around
him, so to speak. Then he went home, glowing
with the proud satisfaction of a conqueror. But
the glow pined away and died into a pallor akin
to that of a seasick patient, and the pleasant
warmth after exertion turned into a cold, un-
pleasant sweat when, on his return, Ki-Lee dis-
covered what bad occurred in his absence. Sun
Lun was gone; so was the whole of Ki-Lee’s
wardrobe; and, worst of all, the fireplace was
rooted up, and the salmon tin was standing on its
head on the Hoor, plainly, palpably empty !
* * *
Ivi-Leo was fairly stunned by the over-
whelmingness of the disaster. The thought of the
immensity of his loss quite overpowered, at first,
any resentment at Sun Lun’s treachery. Nine
whole sovereigns gone at one fell swoop! And his
watch, and a suit of clothes that he had paid
thirty-five shillings for, and two plugs of tobacco 1
It was too much. Ki-Lee wept, and rushed
around, and behaved altogether incoherently for
about half-an-hour. Then he began to recover
a little, refreshed himself with a copious flow
of ornamental Anglo - Chinese profanity, and
started off for the township to get a police-
man put on the erring Sun Lun’s track. It
was a long walk, and the day was hot and the
road dusty and the flies industrious. So when
Ki-Lee returned late that evening, after a very un-
satisfactory interview with an incredulous police-
man, who seemed to look upon the matter
altogether too lightly, it is not astonishing that
Ki-Lee’s state of mind bordered upon the irritable.
And, when he got home, and in the act of opening
the hut-door was fairly tumbled to the ground by
the irrepressible Hoo —who had again escaped,
and was more boisterously affectionate than ever
—Ki-Lee’s temper caused him to be dangerous.
He did not express his feelings in words. Lan-
guage, even the most lurid and powerful, was
quite unequal to an occasion like this. With an
“BLOOD WOULDN’T SHIFT ’EM.”
QUARTERMASTER: “THE CAPTEN SEZ HE WON’T
HAVE THIS BLOOMIN’ ROW, YOU’LL HAVE
TO CLEAR ORE THE VESSEL.”
SALVATIONIST: “LOOK AT OUR BANNER-NEITHER
BLOOD, NOT EIRE WILL SHIFT US”
BUT WATER DID.
extra glitter in his shoe-button eyes, he picked up
Hoo, walked to the shaft that he and Sun Lun
had so lately been working at, pitched Hoo into
thedarkness of its forty feet of depth, and then
quitted the scene of his misfortunes for ever.
* * *
Hatter Ned had taken rather a fancy to
Hoo, in spite of his repeated desertions. So, the
next day he went over to Ki-Lee’s place to
recover the animal, for he made no doubt what
Hoo’s destination would be after escaping from
him. He was surprised to find the hut cleaned
out, the windlass and rope gone, and neither part
ner visible. Ned sagaciously concluded that Ki-
Lee and Co. had left the locality, and also that
Hoo was most probably one of the party. Ned
was sorry for this, for he ruminated “Thatdurned
Chow ’ll knife the dog, or drown him, or
somethin’, and he’s a good little beast,
too.” Then his thoughts took anotlur
turn. “ I wonder if they bottomed that last
shaft of theirs. Taint likely they g<> away with-
out, but you never can tell v <U them yeller
beggars ’ll do. Always up to s-«iiethin queer
I’ll just go down and see, anyhow.” And he did,
and, of course, found poor Hoo at the bottom. He
had a broken leg, but tried hard to
and even managed to put on a sickly smile and to
agitate his ridiculous little tail. Now, Ned could
not climb up the shaft and carry the dog too, so
he went up alone, and by-and-bye returned with a
rope and bucket. He lowered the bucket, then
went down, put Hoo inside, climbed out again,
and pulled up bucket and dog. Hoo was pretty
well up in mining matters, and was quite sensible
enough to understand and submit to this opera-
tion. When he had tied up Hoo’s injured leg, and
was about to take him home, Ned discovered that
he had lost his pipe.
“ Down the shaft, I’ll lay a crown ! he
growled. So it was, and he had to climb away
down again. Hoo thought he was a long time in
returning, and in truth he was. Tor he had found
that the “Chows” hadn’t bottomed, but that they
had sunk to within an inch or two of a seam of the
very best washdirt that had ever gladdened Ned s
eyes. He couldn’t tell how much there was, for
he had only jabbed down a little way with his
knife ; but he saw enough to make him look very
happy as he came out. He took Hoo home, and
there fed him in a way that Hoo had never before
experienced—in a way, in fact, that seemed to
that animal to show nothing less than the roost
wicked extravagance. For Hoo was not used to
lavishness, and Ids early associations had inclined
him somewhat to parsimony. Ned got very drunk
that night, and, indeed, for several days after his
path was not that of the sober. But he was too
astute to tell anyone the reason of his festive
conduct. . , . ~
And all the while Hoo waited with impatience
for the time when his leg would get better, so that
he could make a bolt and go off in search of fvi-
Lee ! Did you ever know the like of that dog.
Why, he was as bad as a woman.
# * *
By and bye Ki-Lee’s block was declared
forfeited for non-payment of rent, and was thus
open for anyone to lease. Ned got it without
opposition, for no one wanted a place that the
very Chinamen had “turned up.’ But - ec r
didn't turn it up. Quite the contrary. He put
men on and got 40 tons of tin out of that 20 acres.
And then he sold out for £l5OO, and that same
ground is being worked yet!
But Hoo “ sneaked ”as soon as he got well, it
was very ungrateful of him, and 1 think ho knew
it, too; but his craving to see Ki-Lee again and
to stay with him was too great to be resisted. He
tramped the country round about for several
weeks, and at last, to his great joy, he found his
old master. . , ...
But Ki-Lee, being still wroth in his heart (for
he had never sem or heard anything of feun Lun),
threw Hoo down another shaft. And this time it
was one with 20ft. of water m it.
A. CHEE.
A well-known bachelor squatter of the
Northern Territory one day heard a six-year-old
darkey swearing in a style which would have
turned a bullock-driver green with envy. “ Dick,”
shouted he to the father of the juvenile, “ where
did that fellow learn to swear?” “Baal me
know,” replied Dick, “ might that phella learn im
alonga house.” The darkey’s accent on the word
“ might ” was beautiful.
A tale of a blighted soul is borne hither-
ward on the breezes from the dejected West, where
a maiden with a rapt, dishevelled air is hanging
about loose by the shores of a muddy river, and
pondering over a corroding grief which ought to stir
up the inmost bowels of the district round about. It
is the story of a rude awakening from love’s young
dream —the touching narrative of a confiding
heart and an unresponsive male clod who threw
that treasure away. She was a poetic young
thing of sft. Din. long and gifted with consider-
able circumference, and she had a tendency to
blossom out in verse, and could rend whole stacks
of song out of herself at the slightest provocation.
She had that far-away aspect which indicates
genius, and often forgot to put her stockings on
in the morning, and her hair flew out behind like
the tail of the contemplative elephant ; and she
had a strain of melancholy in her soul which led
her to fill her poetic efforts with unshed tears,
and lost dogs, and widows who had been left
chargeable on the parish, and flowers that grew
on the tombs of broken-hearted orphans, and
soulful children who died young. Also she had a
ruinous appetite, and her footprint looked like a
place whence a large tree had been dug up and
removed, and she was loved by a person on whose
shirt-collar was stamped with indelible ink the
name of Jones. He was about the most ordinary
individual in the country, and had no soul, and
didn’t know enough to get up again when he fell
down, and he was so angular that the water ac-
cumulated on his outer surface in wet weather,
but in his own dreary, loose-jointed way he won
the poetic maiden’s heart, and they were married.
There were 27 relatives present at the festive
gathering which followed the ceremony, and most
of them were more or less intoxicated. The
bride’s uncle rose with difficulty and delivered a
speech, and his hair took fire while he was doing
it. Another faded ruin rose to do something, but
forgot what it was, and after reflecting awhile he
lell under the table. The bridegroom fell asleep
and snored in a massive style that could be heard
at a considerable distance, and the bride
sat opposite him and regarded him with scorn
and dismay in her eyes. He didn’t amount
to much when he was awake, but the
sight of him asleep burst up the poetry of the
situation at once and for ever. His mouth seemed
to be larger than it had ever been before, and his
hair was redder, and his ears more capacious, and
his countenance had fallen down inside his misfit
shirt-collar, and, altogether, he looked like a
person whose vocation was to go round on all-fours
and eat grass. The hours passed wearily, and
still he snorted and sniffed uneasily in his dreams.
An aged grandfather with an incurable cold fell
into the fire and was rescued with difficulty, and
the bride’s parents sat speechless and mechanically
squashed the Hies which galloped over his bald
head. Somebody sat on the cat and was badly
clawed for doing it, and at last the guests re-
luctantly tore themselves away and went home,
falling over the cow as they went, that animal
having seated itself just outside the door. And
still the bridegroom slept heavily. The new-made
Wife sat down and watched him with anguish in
her soul for three mortal hours, and asked herself
if she was doomed to share the lot of this animated
foghorn for half a century or more, and he only
gave an extra yelp that rose and swelled and then
died away on the morning air. That awful note
of woe finished the romance, and hastily writing
an eternal farewell in thirty-four distracted verses
the bride pinned it on to his coat, and then she
grasped a large trunk, and si.\ bonnet-boxes, and
fifteen smaller parcels, and fled back to her child-
hood’s home. It was seven miles away over a
muddy country, but she covered the distance in
thirty-five minutes and fainted amid a cataract of
luggage outs de her fond mother’s door. Just at
the very moment when she was bursting through
the last hedge the devoted husband woke up. He
felt stiff and cold and miserable, and his head
seemed too large for him, and he couldn’t tell
for certain who he was or how he got there.
He had a vague idea that he was a total stranger
to himself and that he would probably prove an
undesirable acquaintance on closer inspection.
He was half - inclined to kick himself out,
but feared to attempt it lest he might prova
violent. Then he noticed that the fire was out,
and he came across some capsized furniture, and
he ascertained that the door was open and that
the cow was trying to get in, and he found out g
number of broken bottles ; and as he considered
these things the poem lost its hold and fell with g
portentous thud on the floor. He looked at it
with a hostile eye as if it bad done him an injury,
and gradually he recog-
nised a name on it that
seemed to be familiar.
By-and-bye it dawned on
him that it was the same
as the one on his shirt,
and this coincidence sug-
gested that he might as
well sit down on the floor
and consider the docu-
ment. It took him twc
hours and a-half to get
through it, and then
memory came back, and
he solemnly took stock of
the ruins of his vanished
happiness. There was
one extinguished fire, six
overturned chairs, a fat-
tened cat, a cow stuck
fast in the doorway, the
shattered wreckage of
the marriage feast, some
bottles and a smell of
stale drink, a large cock-
roach sitting on his ear,
and an abusive poem in
34 verses. Only that and
nothing more. And as
he realised the situation
he offered up an observa-
tion which would tend to
injure the sale of this
paper if reported in all
its profuse original
violence, and asked if
ti ere was any tangible
reason why he had ever
been born.
The London solicitor,
Newton, who pleaded
guilty to conspiring
to defeat the , ends of
justice by spiriting away
witnesses and minor
offenders necessary to
the conviction of certain
autocrats of the infamous Cleveland Club, has
been sentenced to six weeks' imprisonment only ;
while Editor Parke, unable to prove his case in
consequence of the disappearance brought about
by Newton, got tweLe months! Newton’s con-
viction is to some extent an aeknovvledgemnt of
the injustice of Parke’s sentence.
The movement for re-incorporating the
Melbourne Municipal suburbs makes rapid pro-
gress. Federation is in the air as a forerunner
of the Metropolitan Board of Works, comprehen-
sive dealing with drainage, health, water-supply,
gas, trams, and everything. Nevertheless, the
magnificent suburban town-halls were planted
in the strongest separatist spirit. The strife
aroused is exactly the same as between the Repub-
licans and Democrats in the United States,
central authority v. independent sections. The
necessary Conferences on gas, trams, &c., awaken
the Melbourne Federal idea.
The account in “Robbery Under Arms”
of the taking to Adelaide of a big mob of stolen
cattle, and their identification by means of a well-
known bull which accompanied the mob, is
founded on a “true bill.” Pedigree stock was
then not quite so common as it is in these days,
and had it not been for the bull in all probability
the fraud would never have been bowled out. One
of the young fellows got out of that affair and
managed to escape in other instances, although
actually taken at the tail of a stolen mob; but the
police got him at last over a couple of horses, and
he did his ten years. Another of the lucky ones
who escaped is now one of the best-known sports-
men in Australia.
FOR LA GRIPPE (INFLUENZA)
i\nd all colds and bronchial affections the bes
remedy is Bosisto’s Original Eucalyptus Oil. R l '
ferior oils are bottled to resemble Bosistos,
Buyers should see that they get Bosisto’s oil, wit
registered “ Parrot ” brand on yellow label acres
the cork. Accept no other, and avoid disappoW
ment.
Chahi.kmont and Co., photographers to t
Governor, 1 loyal Arcade, have moderated
charges for photographs, with a view of meetme
every one. Cabinets now 16s. per dozen*


a*-*
-■a».-•
iW<
d
do
INC
'i/CELEBRATiO
IPJ
m
xm
3Hmotimssa
PORT
ro
.Sole 6UI-eni».F.
UROU*. IND.
'EEIER & C?-B^Han-
i-<*i
BUGGIES, BUCKBOARDS,
AMI—
VICTORIAS,
At MANUFACTURERS’ PRICES.
Send for Catalogues and Prices to
THE E. B. WHEELER CO.,
265 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
Personal Items.
poet Swinburne lias entered on his fifty-
fourth year.
A paper neatly alludes to Evangelist
Y alley as being “God-intoxicated.”
Wolselev goes to India in disgust at Con-
naught getting the Commander-in-Chief-ship.
1 'Hie schoolmaster who educated Sir Samuel
Griffith (Mr. Horniman) still lives at North Shore,
S3 One of Peter Lalor’s chums on Ballarat in
,ka n ow “bosses” the floating jetty at Circular
Quay, Sydney, N.S.W.
A Times shareholder lives in Geelong
(Vic )• She is one of eight who own a third of a
sixteenth between them.
In the last number of the Australian
GemTENNIAe Magazine, Professor Edward denies
speaks of “an University.”
No one is more indignant at the provisions
of Shiels’ Victorian divorce legislation than that
amiable lady, his own mother.
In addition to being “leader” by virtue of
li s office, Attorney-General Simpson is lather
uf the N.S.W. Bar by seniority.
Little Mirarns’ great idea ten years ago
was for a National State Bank in \ ictona, making
it all one Premier Permanent, egad.
David Christie Murray will arrive in
Sydney soon. He then goes to Apia to s-e Robert
Louis Stevenson whom he lias never yet met.
J\lr. Henry Hallorau —we don t like to call
1- m C.M.G.— the retired Principal Under-Secre-,
tarv of N.S.W., lias entered his eightieth year.
Howell, Governor of Adelaide Gaol, is
o-oing to resign. He struck it rich at Broken
Hill, and no longer depends upon the jug for his
beer.
The NSW. Education Department is
arranging for an “Arbor Day.” The Minister
iaad better call it something else, out of mercy to
Sir’Enry.
H S Fil’d, one of the Tasmanian Govern-
ment, was originally a Wesleyan-Methodist
preacher. He became latitudinanan after he had
married well.
The Astors, the plutocratic New York
family go into mourning for two years when one
0 f the name dies. They are never seen in society
for that period. (
“How are you, Dan?” sez he. “ Sor,
haughtily replied the great man, “to you I am
Misther O’Connor. I am only Dan to me wife
and me brother !” Fact.
Melbourne Standard sent a special repre-
sentative to Adelaide to interview Allpress, the
absconder, on the arrival of the mail steamer, but
Sergeant Steele would not permit it.
Dr. My me, of Stawell (A ic.), before he
I arted with his interest in the Age, to David and
Joe, was a diligent reader of the “ad.” columns of
the paper — only. Now, he doesn’t read it at all.
A Guildford (Vie.) man named Blinkhorn
has served a long apprenticeship at troubles,
nearly every bone in his body having been broken
twice. Ho has just met with his thirty-ninth
mishap.
Softgoods Sargood (who is alleged to have
lately made such an exhibition of himself m Aew
Zealand) is to be a Birthday Knight. Ihe Imperial
work of greasing the grovellers goes on ad mh-
knight’em.
Isn’t Mr. Walker (Walker v. Solomon)
secretary to the Sydney Y.M.C.A., and isn’t Mr.
Justice Foster, who sat in judgment on \v alker
v Solomon, president or something big in the
Y.M.C.A. ?
Has anybody ever previously noticed the
similarity between the names of the two men,who
had most to do with the reporting of the gold
discoveries in California and N.S.W. respectively,
Sutter and Snttor ?
George Robertson, the mammoth book-
seller, who is just retiring, began business in Mel-
bourne by hawking books to newly-arrived immi-
grants on the local wharves in ’5l. His first day s
sales amounted to £2 14s.
The chief weakness of Chancellor Brown-
less, of Melbourne University, is his gorgeous
robes. If ho has only to show a parson or an
inferior judge from another colony over the
’Varsity on goes the toggery.
Edmund Finn, of Melbourne, some time
since attacked a certain actor-author for having
as alleged cribbed his “ Priest’s Secret,” and now
he’s shaping up at a London crib, to wit, Beei -
bohm-Tree’s new part at the Haymarket.
The clever Howard Willoughby, the comps,
say, stutters in his copy, too. He will write you
two letters of a word, and the rest is a piece of
string, representing “ Establishment, Consis-
tency,” “ Philoprogenitiveness,” or something.
The refusal of the Age’s application for a
new trial in Brown v. Syme, leaves David and
Joseph to pay £5OO damages, and, say, £lOOO to
£l5OO costs—all for the pleasure of insinuating
that a s'ueere Anglican was a hypocritical 1 apist.
Robert Louis Stevenson called in at A tick-
land en route for Samoa for the express purpose of
having a korero with Sir George Grey, but the
author of “ Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde,” was too
ill to carry out his intention and had to keep to
his cabin.
A portrait of Lady Hamilton, Nelson s
flame, fetched nearly 3000 guineas in a London sale
at Christie’s lately. That’s the sort the men like ;
Helen of Troy, Cleopatra, Mary Stuart, and
Lady Hamilton. The hussies are immortal as
well as immoral.
A Wanganui (N./5.) teetotal and holiness
spouter, who pacifically sloped some time ago,
taking with him £2OOO of other people s money,
has taken root again at Sacramento, Oak, and la
considered the most powerful, ardent and popular
preacher ever heard in Sacramento.
A London magazine writer says Zola is
mad. Here is another instance of the absurdity
of confounding an author with his works. An
author is only an actor. Look at old Tom Car-
-1 vie. He found it paid to be abusive. Dante is a
conspicuous example of the author-actor. Despite
that marvellous affection for Beatrice, lie had a
wife and a mistress too.
Writing to Daily News In ve a cheap
edition of Browning, George Jacob Holyoake
asserts that on one occasion he met Browning at
Sir Henry Parkes’ London chambers, and pointed
out to him that the only easily-obtained edition of
his poems was a very fine one printed in pearl
type in an American monthly railway time-table
for the entertainment of passengers.
One day Sir George Bowen lunched with
the Queen at Windsor, then dined with his old
fellows of Trinity College, Oxford, in London, and
wound up by supping with Henry Irving at the
Lyceum', after Irving’s performance of Mephis-
topheles. So that a friend remarked: “Bowen,
you have lunched with the Queen, dined with the
Trinity, and supped with the Devil.”
The beautiful island of Kawau (N.Z.), for
many years owned by Sir George Grey and lately
in the possession of Mrs. Thomson, has been
acquired by W. D. Holgate, of Victoria. Mrs.
Holgate was the wife of the late Robert Hoddle,
the first Surveyor-General of Victoria.
The lady who runs the Carcoar (N.S.W.)
Chronicle* says :—“ Assuming that Mr. Good-
chap, N.S.W. ex-Commissioner for Railways, sees
his ninetieth year, the province will have paid him
in pensions alone over £40,000. Has he earned
it ?” But supposing Goodchap lives to be 190 ?
One of Governor Bowen’s stories. Bishop
Wllberfurce h id to examine a young man for holy
|®SQ<B-
-
orders. The youmr man had been wholly brought
up in Athens —was son of a British resident there.
Says the Bishop ; “ Wherever did you pick up
that horrid Greek pronunciation ?” “In Athens,
sir.”
Mr. B. Lee, the Sydney Stipendiary
Magistrate, boasts of being the son of a soldier.
His father joined the 14th Dragoons as a private,
and saw a lot of fighting. He was born the year
the colony was founded, and died at Parramatta
at hi years of age. His children and grand-
children number over 120 souls.
Melbourne Age has evidently never
heard of Lumley Hill, the Queensland political
loblolly boy, who a few years ago “starred” the
world as a distinguished Australian. It splits
him in two and speaks of him as “ Mr. Lumley ”
and ‘ ‘ Mr. Hill. ” Such is fame! Millionaire Tyson
is right—“ Sixpence is better than publicity.”
A correspondent writes to inform us that
millionaire Jim Tyson made his first “rise ’’by
exchanging a flute for a blue cow, from whose
loins sprang his mighty herds. The cow was a
perfect godsend, as James was at the time running
a farm at Campbelltown and selling his butter at
•id. per pound after paying carriage to Sydney.
Next!
“Canterbury” Hutchinson,M,Pi, (N.S. W.)
of divorce celebrity, thirteen years ago kept the
old-time second-hand book-shop at the top of
Bourke-street, Melbourne, started over 30 years
ago by H. T. Dwight. After Hutchinson crossed
the Murray the immortal Cole, now of the Book
Arcade, went into the shop and kept it for some
years.
The Poet Kelly edits the Auckland (N.Z.)
Observer. “ Personal cleanliness is essential,”
be tells his readers. “ Bathe once a week. Path
to be of the same temperature as the body. Bath-
ing enables the skin to throw off effete matter,
causing the dead and u - 'I -- 1 - pidermis to peel
off.” Tenders are now hereby invited for washing
Kelly every day.
POLITICAL POINTS
The Cockburn Government’s progressive
Land Tax will probably be rejected.
The Primrose Lea’gue is now almost
avowedly a society for the intimidation of voters.
Playford has often stated that he would
not accept the bauble of knighthood. We shall
see.
The- extreme North of Australia, on the
Cape York Peninsula, was called Victoria 50 years
ago.
The people of Northern Queensland do not
intend to wait for Australian Federation in order
to obtain separation.
S.A. Parliament, which meets on June 5,
is regarded as being the strongest Parliament yet
elected in that colony.'
Hugh O. Pentecost says no one ought to
be happy while there is a policeman, or a priest, a
prison, a poorhouse, or a church on earth.
“At the heart of this movement is the
military spirit : federation is not due to a sudden
■impulse of brotherly Ijvlv'— ,G. 11. Reid, M.P.,
(N.S.W.)
Politicians all over Australia envy Parkes.
Whether it is at a banquet, a “ frilled” language
contest, or falling out of a cab, he is always before
the public.
Nothing shakes one’s faith in Victorian
political institutions like the spectacle—the awful
spectacle—of Sir Mingy Bengy “ responding for
the Upper House.”
The election for Speaker of the S.A. Par-
liament is being made a party question. The
Government run Rounsevelle and Tom Play-
ford’s party run Coles.
It is cabled that Parnell offers James
Dalton, of Orange, Redmond’s brother-in-law, the
vacant seat for West Donegal. Why not? Two
good turns deserve another.
Down’s last official act before resigning as
Victorian Minister of Agriculture was to advertise
£2OO reward for an effective potato-digger. Tem-
pleton turns up the “ spuds.”
Solomon, M.P., proprietor of the Northern
Territory Times and colleague of Parsons in the
representation of the Northern Territory, is going
to agitate for separation from S.A.
The most admirable objects in the V ic-
torian Assembly next to the Colonels historic
boots are the Professor’s patent Next in
order eome Zox’s white vest and Wrixon’s felt hat
Non the Premier Permanent shareholders
are saying ; “ What’s the good, anyway, of prose-
cuting Miram.s, Nhnmo, and Dow? We’ll never
get any satisfaction, and we’ll waste all our
money.”
Mr. Vivian, M.P. , wanted political economy
taught in N.S.W. State Primary Schools. The
terrible effects of a rudimentary acquaintance with
the dismal science were, however, too apparent in
Mr. Vivian’s own case.
The fact that the Sydney E. News and
Star both re-printed “Jack” Want's Federation
speech in extenso from Hansard shows what a
strong bond of Freemasonry exists between the
Sydney Reform Club men.
Why all this tom-toming of cannons over
the ppening of an Australian Parliament ? Are
we a lot of Chinamen to be thus imposed on ?
This Imperial fanfarronading caused a gunnel's
arm to be blown off in Melbourne and another in
Brisbane.
Another poll-tax wanted ! Mr. Lakeman,
M.P. (N.SW.), asks whether the Premier who
talked treason in order to force through Parlia-
ment his anti Chinese law, will talk souie more
treason about those cheap Hindoos and Cingalese
who are coming in shoals to Australia.
Coincidence. Sir Bryan O’Loghlen is
standing out from the Victorian Opposition under
Munro and carries a little tail of his own. He is
also the barrister selected by Dow, the Minister
who is accused of “ conspiring to defraud.” Is
there anything in it as a political move ?
A powerful sentence exhumed from an
obituary of the Iron Duke of Wellington ; “This
is tlie last stone torn from the ancient'foundations
of the European monarchies, and the present
generation leans breathless over the dark gulf of
the future, listening to its fall in the unfathom-
able deep.”
Dr. Wallace, M.P., thus describes the
Tory party. “It consists,” he remarked, “of the
core and centre of the hereditary and lately-added
aristocracy—he meant the real peerage, the blue
blood, the upper circle, the genuine article, along
with the vast accretion and addition of imitators,
parasites, dependents, victims, and dupes.”
The Liberian Republic defaulted in the
payment of interest on a part (£1,000.000) of its
public debt, And no wonder! Out of the million
the Republic got £19,000 in cash, and £BOOO in
goods. The London stock-brokers who floated
the loan got the rest. It almost reminds us of the
Sydney brokers who get it2Boo for selling £7OOO
worth of shares.
“ The honors'conferred on the occasion of
the Queen’s Birthday are expected to be few, in
view of the number to be conferred in connection
with the federation movement next year.” What
does Downing-street think of Australia? It evi-
dently thinks that Australia is a land in which
political prostitution is a virtue. And Downing-
stxvet is pretty nearly right.
Mr. Parkin is still on the job in Hingland.
Slice from a recent meeting :
K<*v. Mr. Coats Shanks asked what effect Australian
J-Vd-ration would have on this question. Would it not
dimisli the interest in Imperial Federation ? Mr. Parkin
replied that lie believed Australian Federation would
favour Imperial Federation.
Coats-Shanks ! What curious people are these
English 1
A Melbourne paper says there is a split in
the N.S.W. Cabinet over the Federation scheme,
Bruce Smith, M‘Millan, and others being op-
posed to Sir Henry Parkes on the subject. Which
is likely enough, for reasons set out by J. H.
Want and G. H. Reid. A straw which shows
bow the wind blows is to be found in the first
leader of the Ministerially-inspired Sydney D.T.
of Monday last.
W. (J. Spence, J.P., secretary of the
Amalgamated Miners’ Association of Australasia,
president of the Amalgamated Shearers’ Union
and delegate from Victoria to Queensland in re
the labour difficulty, addressed a mass meeting of
workers in Brisbane Gaiety lately. We are glad
to see that he pointed out what The Bulletin
has so often reiterated—that there can be no true
federation of labour while women are excluded
from the unions.
Dealing with the divine injunction in the
Mosaic story that “ the land shall not be sold for
ever, for the land is mine,” Astronomer Tebbutt
(N.S.W.) points out that this unmistakeable com-
mand does not concern him in the least, “ because
the Lord, whose utterances are thus recorded, is
simply the God of Israel.” Exactly; it was ever
thus—the worshippers of the Great Unknown in-
variably either interpret His “ revealed word ” to
suit themselves or else disown Him altogether
when they find His injunctions don’t fit their
appetites.
The recent addition to the British heredi-
tary house of legislature is a half-caste named
Lord Gardner, who can neither read nor write
English. Of course he is not to blame for having
a black mamma, but the system which may foist
the most ignorant and disreputable of creatures
into the position of rulers is scarcely worthy of
Australian imitation. Some day a leprous half-
caste Chinaman may dump his coronet and the
deeds of his noble English father’s ancestral halls
right down beside the Marquis of Salisbury in the
House of Lords.
From the late editor and proprietor of the
Nabracookte Argus," now a member of the S.A.
Legislature;—
Dear Bulletin,— ln a recent issue you say that not a
single declared Freetrader was returned at the recent
S.A. elections. As accuracy is The Bulletin’s chief virtue
allow me to correct this by saying that at every one of
of my election meetings I distinctly said I was a Free-
trader, and I was elected at the head of the poll. Yours
faithfully, George Ash. Adelaide, 7th May, ’9O.
In the face of -this we have to congratulate the
Freetraders on still being represented in the crow-
eater’s Parliament.
France has supplied Russia, or will, with a
million rifles for the new Lebel smokeless and
noiseless powder. This transaction would cause a
convulsion had the Germans not partly bored out
the French seci-et. Lebel, the inventor, kept the
thing very close, and special rifles had to be manu-
factured for his marvellous explosive. The
French had got about 300,000 of them finished ere
the Germans were on their track—and herein lay
the secret of Boulanger’s perkiness. Awful penal-
ties were declared against any soldier who parted
with a Lebel cartridge, but the Germans got them
all'the same. Germany, it is stated, is now pretty
well up to France iv all that concerns the rifle,
and the Russian million is a mere trade transac-
tion.


London, Wednesday.—The New Farit
Herald publishes p telegram from San
t'raucisco asserting that anxiety is felt for
the safety of Mr. David Christie Murray, the
uo relist.
Mr. David Christie Murray is at present
in New Zealand, and intenat to shortly
proceed to Sauna* t 0 j„j u vir. scvienau, the
novelist.
y 7 /<?re ?r e-e. »o
Cause. Ar
sMretist fl
U>/7//tare a.? efu.o.l
C/ta<tce oJ'ty Aotse&Sf j
77/e i/~g n s~o s*~ ■
" /T/tfe n Sore meet j
" eA<s . I
mpA a/*
T
CSuW'l °& stR X*
A^r^Vy.
/3r 6W EK 'yM >** fWotJoF' feD -\
X' jp v* C^y"'^
yiT /^ 4 V •
it
Vour-Sl # '
> Cujro/ytde. liquid ct/wce!
f Jb/i K /'/ /v b (liuried ) /dfq farUUsyi
CUSToiyuft ' uj- //p U />/ c//;'#/ie S'c/ye/j.y c
//feci ( cjd/'o/'re /yy (o//p qroat/ds /or ’ J _
a d/rone 00/do
P7PU */J>Au ?/fe l
(OUR SPECIAL MESSAGE.)
•LONDON, Saturday, v--It is reported that
Mr. H. M. Stanley, the famous explorer, will
shortly marry Miss Dorothy Tennant, a
daughter of Sir David Tennant, the Speaker
of the Legislative Assembly of Cape Colony.
I nr Y Tagore
3 /fafa/fa y 1 *
///ty/nf /fa u ‘
i a/r/wW^A
"o/jfaAA^/
Se/c /j /c/ra fior far7//cr a iafa/pf'sei&rji&ir
Sac/t -ac//o// re/r?ora/j/f> an// rofo//r?a ) fu/r/fa/ (jfr//
frdprai/op Co/TjpSj sous a Sr////ant &n<r.
AA/i/y /tafare t's/tumun— na/are
'e.sfi ectaliU/ //z Afc&o %9o u t/f
<Z't4 JAk Aon .
A MEDLEY.


AN OLD FABLE WITH A MORAL.
“The honors to be distributed on Queens Birthdny this year will be few in view of the huge nunber to be given next year in connection with the Australian Federation


Foreign & colonial exchange bank
OF AUSTRALASIA, Limited.
Sydney—B6 King Street.
Melbourne —869 Collins Street.
London Bankers —Australian Joint Stock Bank,
N0..2 King William Street, London, E.C.
This Bank undertakes the Exchange of Money,
both International and Intercolonial, includ-
ing the Coinage ob' all Foreign Nations, in
addition to all usual and customary banking busi-
ness.
Deposits Received.
3 years
12 months ...
6 months ...
3 months ...
Communications to be
Managing Director.”
... 8| per cent.
... 8 percent.
... 7 percent.
... 6 percent,
addressed to “The
WILSON,
Secretary.
The SYDNEY DEPOSIT BANK,
90 —KING STREET —9O
Established 1885.
Agencies in London and throughout Australia
Overdrafts granted against Deposit of Deeds,
and all the usual banking business transacted.
The following are the Kates of Interest allowed
for Fixed Deposits
3 Years 9J per cent.
12 Months 84 per cent.
6 Months 71 per cent.
3 Months 54 per cent.
5 per cent, allowed on daily balance of current account
For the past Four (4) Years a Bonus of One feu
Cent, lias been paid in addition to the above rates.
This is the first and only Bank in the Colonies
which divides its profits with its depositors.
Communications from the country wfll M
promptly attended to.
T. S. RICHARDSON,
General Manager.
W. H. PALING & COMPANY, LIMITED,
356 George Street, SYDNEY,
HAVE Just Opened a Magnificent Lot of 3\T© , w Pianos from the celebrated Makers, S-teiaway,
Also of the wonderfu 1 Pianos at £Z <3LS and Eatev Orerana.
Erard, Uebel, Penrich, Lipp,
No such Yarietv or Value
Eonisch, Bluthner, ColUrd,and otb elS
elsewhere for Cash or Term*-
Society
More and more frisky are the stories told
about the clergy. The other -day we had it in
evidence that a lady whose marital fidelity was
questioned by her husband’s executors was accus-
tomed to be swung by her spiritual adviser ; then
we had an ecclesiastico-medical bigamy case ; and
now the world hath it that a muchly-married
parson has folded in his saintly arms a ewe-lamb
from his flock and scooted by the Alameda to the
gay and blithesome city of San Francisco. Here
you have a good-looking shepherd with a rich and
well-behaved wife given him in marriage by a
saintly father-in-law. He had brains, an excellent
living, the esteem of the community at large, the
respect, not to say affection, of his congregation-
health, wealth, and prosperity. What more could
man possibly want ? Ah, dear Kerristian friends,
there is in the breast of a man a wicked spirit
to which you may in vain apply the patent
lever-bit of orthodox piety and bourgeois content-
ment. The old Adam is not to be lassooed.
A man has a good and gilded wife and possesses
all the material comforts and solid joys which you
see catalogued in the grocer’s dream, and yet the
perverse wretch one day sees some little, touzle-
headed woman without whom existence would be
as hollow as a drum. And then he buys a double
ticket for the Alameda, on every square inch of
whose well-scrubbed deck have trod a thousand
scooting men and women full up to the chin with
the real tragedy of this sinful world. Why the
devil doesn’t the world always stick to its wife ?
Ah ! why doesn’t it go to church three times every
Sunday and become a Sabbath-school teacher?
Why does it want a drink in a public-house on the
day of rest ? Why does the world want to go to
Sunday concerts ? How is it that the godly, who
wouldn’t attend a public leg-show for anything
unless they could get early door to a well-cur-
tained private box, profane the Social Purity hall
with their wicked amours?
# # #
Religion and morality, we learn xor the
millioneth time, have no earthly connection. Piety
and the other thing are often only different phases
of the same emotion. Your pretty wife or your
fascinating daughter are just as safe in the com-
pany of the uncultured barracking footballer as in
that of the stall-fed saint. Zola has summed the
whole matter up very nicely in “La Faute de
Mouret.”
# * *
The Queen’s English on the Queen's Birth-
day. Slab of Sydney Government House I free
regulations :
Each gentleman to be provided with a card, with hi a
name legibly written thereon, to be given to the Aide-de-
Catnp, who will announce their names to the Governor.—
Rupert Carrington, Aide-de-Camp.
Brother Rupert evidently wants another term at
night-school.
* * #
Lord Hopetoun has a monotonous pro-
vincial accent, and speaks of “ parssing measures,”
and the “Naival Fources.” Matthew Davies is
“ Mr. Speeaker ” in the weak vice-regal dialect.
Yet, after Hopetoun had stumbled through his
Parliamentary circular, on Wednesday of last
week, and had referred to the Almighty as
“ Gord,” there were plenty of old gentlemen pre-
sent who said, and probably believed, that they
had been listening to a fine piece of elocution.
“ He read it very well indeed, I’m shooah,” \vas a
common remark, made in tones which indicated
considerable surprise at the young gentleman
being able to read at all. But Hopetoun did not
shine as a reciter of his Queen’s English. Any
intelligent boy could have read the speech with far
better effect. It would be positively unsafe for
Hopetoun to play Hamlet in a public theatre,
unless they put a wire screen across the front of
the stage. Even then the populace might be
maddened into shooting at him through the screen.
# # #
Lady Hopetoun is a demure-seeming little
creature with an occasionally wicked glance. With
it she caught her lord’s optic during a horrible
pause in the opening of Parliament at Melbourne
the other day. The faithful Commons were a little
slow in rolling up, owing to the Mace, or the
Speaker, or some such indispensable item, having
got mislaid. And as the Gov., pale and trembling
under his cocked hat, waited for his chief trouble
to begin, his pretty little partner made a womanly
attempt to stay his sinking heart with that same
furtive Irish smile which brought him to his knees
long ago. It was the solitary touch of Nature in
a wretched tinsel ceremony.
The other day, in a certain Australasian
colony, there was one of dear Lady r- ’s tea-
parties, where, as usual, the refreshments played
hide-and-seek with the guests. His Excellency took
a lady to refresh, and, after considerable prospect-
ing, they dropped across a plate containing two
sandwiches—one ot bread and meat, the other of
bread and treacle ! Her Majesty’s representative
was in ho way taken aback. Gallantly he pre-
sented the plate, asking his fair friend : “ What
will you take?” “I suppose your Excellency
wishes to know which I will take,” said the fair
divinity. They don’t play chaineys in the same
yard now.
* * *
A respectable youth has committed suicide
through playing billiards and drinking, at Castle-
maine. Poor fellow! if he hadn’t flown to those
vain pleasures he must have ceased to live all the
same—at Oastlemaine.
Once we took it in our head
Life at Oastlemaine to try ;
All the maidens watching said,
“You must drink, or you will die.”
So we drank and lived on.
# * *
When Sir Robert Stout was N.Z. Premier
he had for private secretary a high-toned youth
named Robert Leckie, whose Mte noir was press-
men, and who scrupled not during the session to
put many small indignities upon them, even
going so far as to scornfully repulse them from the
Minister’s sanctum when they sought an interview.
At last the gallery-men got riled, and, as the re-
sult of a secret understanding, whenever seeking
an interview they approached the Ministerial Cer-
berus with dejected visage and servile bearing,
and having bowed low and often, they murmured,
“Good morning, Sir Robert Leckie; is Mister
Robert Stout within?” The joke worked the
desired end, and is much appreciated at the pre-
sent time in Wellington.
* * *
A Bulletin correspondent was shown the
other day by a pretty little woman in Queensland
a lock of hair alleged to have been nourished on
the empty head of His Royal Nibs the Duke of
Edinburgh. She was married about the time of
his visit to Australia and spent part of the wed-
ding trip in Sydney, at Petty’s. She bought the
hair at a high figure from the lady’s-maid who
did the “ chores” and things for Alfred, at a high
price and as a great favour. It has been a house-
hold relic in the Far West ever since. Ihe
children have been brought up to duly reverence
the miserable-looking rat-bait, and visitors from
afar off, with the grass-seed of theautumn months in
their tangled locks, gaze on it with awe and rever-
ence. The Bulletin has heard of the clever girl
who sold it to the artless bride, but is not going to
»ive her away. At one time and another she sold
enough to various guests to stuff a full-sized
double-mattress, for she had the run of all the
hairbrushes in the house, and neither length,
colour, or quality was allowed to interfere be-
tween her explanations and the completion of the
deal. She also acknowledges having sold other
interesting relics of the Royal and penurious per-
which were of necessity left behind at the
hotel.
* * *
The Duke of Edinburgh is only remenir
bered for one good thing in Australia. He almost
knocked on the head the fashion of men wearing
gloves. Before his time no “ respectable ” man
ever went without gloves. Now-a-days, when you
see a man with them, you feel as if you would
like to put on the gloves too.
# * *
In May number of the Centennial
Magazine Mr. Thos. Courtney’s article, headed
“The Rebellion in the Kitchen ” (which appeared
in the April number), receives very rough handling
from Miss May L. Manning, who politely remarks
that: “This knight-errant of slaveys and kitchen-
maids could never have stepped across the thres-
hold of a gentlewoman's door, or he would not have
asserted that ‘the joy of every true liberal will be
to see the difficulties which mistresses have about
procuring menials increasing day by day.’” We
are sorry for Mr. Courtney, who after this must
stick to parliamentary criticism and allow every
gentlewoman to wallop her own negress.
# * #
Mrs. Harrison Lee is coming so much in
evidence in Melbourne with her startlingly candid
book on “Marriage and the Social Evil,” that
Spagnoletti favours us with a pen-portrait of her,
taken at a religious meeting last week. She is
a really lovely woman, apparently not more than
thirty, with a very sweet expression on her
nicely-rounded face, and a small and expressive
mouth—the whole effect being a combination of
Marian Burton and Pattie Browne. A piquant
little white chip straw hat over her charming
forehead and lustrous brown eyes, and her dark
auburn hair done up in a braided bandeau behind
—oh, what a preacher of righteousness !
# * *
Pretty and pious Mrs. Harrison Leo cannot
make out why the Southern Cross won’t notice
her book on “Marriage and the Social Evil,’
while it will give her a column a week for her
Foreign Missions.
# * *
Lady Kiutore returns to England at the
end of the present year. Her Ladyship doesn't
like the Adelaide society folks, and the Adelaide
society folks don t like her. The Kin tores _ won’t
make any friendships and won’t slacken their grip
on the bawbees, and so Adelaide is getting tired. It
is the same, too, with Adelaide politicians, who
don’t hit it with the Lord of Inverarie.
* * #
A most amusing lawsuit was the Campbell-
O’Connell will-case at Adelaide. An old lady
named Murphy, who loved schnapps, left all her
money to her medical attendant, Dr. O Connell,
The plan of placing the kitchen on top of
the house was initiated in London at a cele-
brated restaurant, and it is now introduced in
other places. It has advantages from nearly
all points of view but the policemen’s; they
cannot enjoy the pastime of a chat with
Matilda Jane unless they have recourse to the
telephone. And no telephone has yet been
invented that will “ transmit ” hot sausages.
with whom a distant relation of the testator in-
effectually disputed the will. Miss Murphy, it is
stated, had an aversion to ringing a bell, and
always substituted the old-fashioned “coo-ee!”
when she wanted her poison. The doctor, having
succeeded to a snug little fortune of £BOOO, has
retired from practice.
# * *
Now-a-days it takes the average Australian
doctor a very long while to compile £BOOO. Many
city practitioners have parted with their turns-
out, and the time is coming when advice and
medicine will be obtainable from properly-qualified
practitioners for sums varying from 3s. 6d. to two
half-crowns.
* # #
Some interesting capers have lately been
cut at a certain Australian gubernatorial establish-
ment. The girls in question have been carefully
packed off to England—like the last lot.
* * *
An Auckland (N.Z.) man named Hanna-
ford runs a matrimonial agency :
“ Hannaford’s Matrimonial Agency is not confined solely
to obtaining * Life Partners’ for gentlemen in town and
country, but those who have suited themselves can have
all the preliminaries taken off their hands by addressing
themselves to Hannaford’s Agency. They can then be
married any day or hour they like without the least
trouble on their part, everything being done for them.”
Judging from the last sentence Hannaford’s agency
will meet the needs of any newspaper man or
other person who, though imbued with the broad
principles of love, has but little time on his hands
for humbugging about details.
In the press and shortly to ho published :
“The Gimlet at Gympie: a Romance of the
Social Purity Society.” Three vols. 31s. 6d.
All booksellers, you bet.
* * #
Captain Olive, late of the Navy, and more
recently secretary of the Auckland Club, N.Z.,
has been appointed secretary of the Australian
Club, Sydney. The gallant captain, it is rumoured,
knows exactly when a fore-quarter of mutton is
done. A most desirable accomplishment when
you are catering for gilded apoplexy.
» # *
Dr. Barr, of Liverpool (England) Hospital,
has cured a number of typhoid cases by prolonged
immersion in warm water. One man was im-
mersed for thirty-one days with successful results.
* # *
The Messrs. Jacobs who, on behalf of
themselves and other Sydney men, bought a large
interest in Don's smoke-preventive patent and
then sought a market for that apparently valuable
invention in London, have returned after disposing
of their rights to experts on most satisfactory
terms.
# # #
Ed tor Bulletin, — In re. that letter from
“Officers Wife” as to the lung hours of her hus-
band's work, I do a lot of travelling (fore cabin)
and have noticed that the poor officers prefer to
doll themselves up for mashing purposes instead
of taking a rest in their watch below. —Yours,
Timothy T.
* # #
The N.S.W. Cremation Company is before
the public as a joint-stock concern with a capital
of £5OOO in £5 shares. Tae chief object of the
company is to provide an oven with which to start
operations. We have read over the list of
directors and do not see in it the name of anyone
who would not bake very niedy. Dr. Garran, the
ex-editor of the llekald, expresses in the
prospectus his joy at the prospect of being burnt,
and poor David Buchanan has left on record
therein the “ warm interest” he took in the sub-
ject. Sir Alfred Stephen will, it. is to be inferred,
als , offer himself up on the funeral pyre ; ditto as
regards auctioneer Gorman. We don’t see Dr.
Creed’s name in the prospectus, but as he has
made cremation a labour of love he probably does
not wish to be mixed up with the finance of the
tiling.
* * *
The Bulletin smiled when it read in an
evening paper a twenty-line cablegram about the
wide sympathy caused in England by Premier
Parkes’ cab-accident. The Bulletin will under-
take to supply that sort of cablegram (mostly manu-
factured in the colony) at Is. 4d. a column, dis-
count allowed on wholesale orders. Of course
this kind of criticism is very coarse and brutal,
we know, and could not possibly emanate from
any right-minded person. The clever impostor
enforces a certain sort of admiration, but the
clumsy fraud who dumps down before you a
transparent and mawkish sham insolently pits his
ignorance and cheek against your intelligence and
deserves no mercy.
* * *
From S.M. Herald agony list: —
"VYILL GENT., gave widow (7) flowos, Thursday,
’ ' Maoq.-st., call for letter add. N.H., 29 Park-st.
p.o'
“Seven” is good, but “over seven ” would be con-
siderably better, under the circumstances, don’t
you think ?
* # *
The Commercial Travellers’ Association
has started a paper. The conversation of th«
average commercial traveller, if fully and accur-
ately reported, would be sufficient to start any
paper. It would also be sufficient to startle the
public.
* * *
The improver is thoroughly extinct in
London.
* # #
A certain Queensland backblocks parson is
just now having a rosy time with the “silver-
tails” of his flock. One lady washes her hands
of all things ecclesiastical, because “his rever-
ence ” declined to let her havecommand of the key
of the church-organ. Another, because the parson
did not visit her during her recent indisposition.
To have satisfied this sweet creature’s wish, he
would have been compelled to swim across a
billabong a mile wide, running like a mill-race.,
When the said lady was convalescent the reverend
gentleman paid his homage ; but his laxity in not
appearing at her bedside in bathing costume was
accounted so heinous that he was not permitted
to christen the baby. Another lady said she would
never go to church because the parson wore
trousers of moleskin (the only locally mosquito-
proof material) when he christened her infant. This
objection, remarks the clergyman, is somewhat
inconsistent, seeing that the lady’s husband was
called upon to marry her in such a hurry that he
had no time to change his moleskin trousers for
garments more suitable for the occasion. Another
charmer objects to the parson because he does not
grow a beard; another because he smokes and
doesn’t regard whisky as bottled mortal sin.
# * #
A refined piece of cruelty at Melbourne
University is making the Professors live in eight
houses which have been built on the grounds.


The
Marvellous
18s. 6d.
OPTIMUS
WATCHES
The Best, Cheapest and Most Accurate Timekeepers
ever produced.
Made especially to our order by one of the leading and
most celebrated manufacturers of Watches in Switzerland,
and experience has shown that no watch is better than a
well-made Swiss one.
Gilt movements, jewelled in six holes, keyless (10 turns
to wind), enamel dials, crystal faces, well made, splendidly
finished, nickel cases that will wear excellently; in fact,
real good-looking, handsome little watches, and magnifi-
cent timekeepers.
Twelve months' guarantee forwarded with every one.
Send P. 0.0. for 19s. 6d. (Is. postage), and have one
forwarded by post. If not in every way satisfactory after
a week money willingly refunded.
Only to be obtained from
FROST <Sc SHIPHAM,
Spectacle Makers, Opticians & Electricians,
474 & 587 George Street, Sydney.
Wolfe’s Schnapps has no rival.
Wolfe’s Schnapps will do you no harm.
The Choicest Jewellery. Baums & Go., King-st. Arcade.
A good bed companion—Wolfe’s Schnapps.
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
Insist upon having Wolfe’s Schnapps.
scorn
EMULSION
OF PURE COD LIVER OIL
*£2 HYPOPHOSPHITES
Almost as Palatable as Milk.
So disguised that it can be taken,
digested, and assimilated by the most
sensitive stomach, when the plain oil
cannot he tolerated; and hy the com-
bination of the oil with the hypophos-
fhltei is much more efficacious.
Remarkable as a flesh producer.
Persons gain rapidly while taking It#
SCOTT’S EMULSION is acknowledged hj
Physicians to be the Finest and Best prepa-
ration in the world for the relief and cure of
CONSUMPTION. SCROFULA.
GENERAL DEBILITY, WASTING
DISEASES, EMACIATION,
COLDS and CHRONIC COUCHS.
The great remedy for Consumption, and
Wasting in Children. Sold by all Chemists.
|{,o i» e iit son’s Whisky. «*>o ™ z:e3S .
GIVEN AAV AY IN THE COLONIES
AS FOLLOWS;
10 of £5 o.ach, 25 £2, and 70 £l,
Pamphlets from the Agents, A.L3L.T & CO., Limited, CHARLOTTE PLACE, SYDNEY
Here they are, day and night, in sight of the
accursed shop. Everyone knows a professor’s
ideal is to get away to a snug little cottage em-
bowered in roses and adorned with meerschaums
and wickered jars of whisky.
*• * *
There is again much public grumbling in
Melbourne about bank-clerks’ salaries, but what is
the good of rowing against the directors, when
parents are so anxious to shove their sons into
banks, at nothing a year ? The Embezzlement
Stakes are entered for by those promising young-
sters, Fearwork, Guvstroke, and Shungraft, and
everyone of them want, and ought, to get half as
much wages again as a mechanical engineer with
a large family.
It worries you to see the half-and-half
Church of England nuns about Melbourne. Whole
hog or nun.
* * *
A lady with golden hair and pronounced
charms of face and figure resides on the Victoria
Parade (Melb.) under the patronage of an amorous
person named Carbock. One night recently an
old member of the foorce was awakened from a
beautiful sleep in a cement-barrel by the cries of
“ Mrs.” Carbock. He entered the house and
found her “ protector ” remonstrating gently with
her at the end of a pick-handle. Under the
charming influence of the dishevelled damsel the
bobby tried to persuade her to give Carbock into
custody. She refused to do this, and the officer
left—not, however, before she had so impressed
him that he began making verses in her praise,
and two days later Carbock found a letter jmder
the door addressed to his lady-love. He opened
it and found 47 stanzas of poetry beginning : —
Pretty Mrs. Carbock, on the Victoria Parade,
I’m standing outside so be not afraid.
Carbock took this precious effort to the peeler’s
superior officer, and the smitten constable was in-
formed, on a large piece of blue foolscap, that
there was no provision in the police regulations—
there are over 1400 of them—to warrant anybody
under the rank of inspector breaking out into
verse addressed to a lady in dishabille whom he
had seen pick-handled.
# * *
The Australian Wesleyan General Confer-
ence are unanimously in favour of bereaved people
abandoning the absurd practice of buying mourn-
ing. Ear better, say the members, to put the
money into the collection-plate.
# # *
Smelbourne folks are visiting Tasmania in
increasing numbers. The Tamar now smells just
like the Yarra, and makes them feel quite at
home.
# * #
A Mr. J. Ewing Ritchie, who spent twelve
months aw.,y from England, has written a book
entitled “An Australian Ramble, or, A Summer
in Australia.” He describes Sydney as “the
grandest illustration the world has yet seen of the
tendency of human society to elevate and reform
itself.” When this sort of praise is publicly ladled
out to the “elevated"” and “reformed’’citizen of
Botany Bay he doesn’t quite know what to do
with it.
* * #
The worst trait in the Victorian State-
school teachers is that they are jealous of the
women—afraid of ’em. A Miss Weeks got into
one of their meetings lately, and rounded them
up in a spanking style that reminded one of the
Pouring of boiling water on an ant-hill. The
schoolmaster ought to be the very best, man,
without exception, in the community. Is he?
From the Cooktown Independent “In
Walker-street last Saturday evening a, Malay
monster beat his half-bred child to close upon the
borders of eternity because the debased mother
was tight. Angels may be weeping at the horrible
depravity of legalising the production of a hybrid
progeny despised by man and damned by God.”
It at once strikes you that the man who wrote this
got his religious education at a Sunday-school
held in a bar-parlour. Which is the leading
characteristic of the Far Northern style of jour-
nalism.
* * #
The name of the re-built Falls Bridge,
Melbourne, was changed to “ Queen’s,” on the
vain pretence that it was a continuation of-Queen-
street. As a matter of fact, the new structure is
in the direct line of Market-street.
# * *
The question naturally arises—What ought
to be done to that widow who so cruelly libelled
a Melbourne doctor? If the Crown prosecuted
the doctor, why doesn’t the Crown proceed against
the widow? In short, why is the Crown always
PREPARING POP THE LEVEE.
LADY HOPETOUN : “THERE, ‘EXCELLENCY,’ TAKE A GOOD LONG SNIFF,
AND IF YOU SHOULD FEEL GOING OFF, DO—SEND WALLINGTON
FOR ME.”
taking such a lot of trouble to show that its prose"
cutions are mostly bogus, and that in the matter
of straining at a gnat and swallowing a camel the
emblem of Our Sovereign Lady takes the entire
tart ?
* * *
Sparks case squared in Melbourne—else
all the chapels would be ruined.
* * *
It is not long since Buccaneer Stanley
wrote : “ I wished to say, my dear friend, that I
am absolutely uncomfortable when speaking to a
woman.” And now he is engaged to marry Miss
Dorothy Tennant —
On Eight-Hours’ day in Melbourne, after
half-a-dozen unbreeched Highlanders had pranced
and yelled for an hour in honour of Governor
Hopetoun, his Nibs ordered one of the savages to
be brought to his feet. His name was Skinner.
The exhausted man was at once led to the vice-
regal dais and fully expected that he was going to
receive the Order of the Thistle or be created
Master of Collingwood; but, shades of the moss-
troopers ! the Governor only wanted to tell him
that he was wearing the tartan which had been
worn by his (Hopetoun’s) grandmother !
* # #
Here’s a chunk from Rudyard Kipling’s
latest military sketch. Scene —an officers’ mess :
“The Queen —God bless her!” . . . The big men
reared themselves up and drank the Queen. That sacra-
ment of the mess never grows old, and never ceases to
bring a lump into the throat of the listener wherever he
be by sea or by land.
A lump ? The gorge !
# * *
Another expressive anagram : Syme’s
Age—My ass, gee !
* * *
It is a treat to go home in the Melbourne
tram-cars, after the Opera is over, and see the
pious ladies glaring at the wicked ones.
« * *
Good old Mr, and Mrs. M‘Donald, of
Kilmore (Vic.), have struck a new means of
proving that marriage isn’t a failure if the con-
tracting parties can hold out for a sufficiently long
time, and have a mind to conduct the nuptial
state on sound business principles. A few days
back the ancient couple aforesaid celebrated their
golden wedding with a grand ball and supper at
their residence, public interest in this connubial
festival being stimulated by an advertisement in
the Kilmore Free Press, announcing that* the
price of admission would be two “bob,” in order
that the Macs, might be helped oyer the cold
weather. Further down in the ad. appeared the
startling statement that “ they have 28 grand-
children and 1G great-grandchildren,” which
dispels all doubt as to their fifty years of
matrimony having been wasted. That the
nobdity and gentry of Kilmore rolled up
freely, bringing their florins and bits of fatted
calf with them, can be taken for granted. Such a
picturesque departure from the humdrum style of
golden wedding, whereat the happy pair are ex-
pected to “ shout ” for the crowd, was bound to in-
flame the popular mind with a burning desire to
be there. The M‘Donalds will help themselves
over the cold weather, you bet! After which
these estimable antiquities purpose throwing them-
selves upon the gratitude of their adopted colony,
for we observe that “a petition to the Governor
for a pension is to be presented shortly by Mrs.
M‘Donald, on account of her long residence in the
East Indies.” The old lady appears to be a
specially deserving case, quite apart from her
matrimonial claims upon the district she adorns.
* # #
In several expensively - built Sydney
churches the performers—clergy, singers, pew-
openers, &c., now usually far outnumber the
audience.
* * *
A very heavy swell met a good-looking
slavey—his wife’s maid —in the stalls of an Aus-
tralian theatre, the other evening. That was too
public, .and so he took a well-curtained stage-box
at a cost of two guineas ; but, he didn’t get the
value of his money, for before ten minutes had
passed, his face was a bright vermilion on the side
next the girl, and the tears of the outraged damsel
threatened to wash all the powder into the dainty
canal beneath her nez retrousse,
« • if «
The pious proprietors and reverend editor
of Melbourne Daily Tic leg hath suffer much
secret woe in the contemplation of their old office,
a building whose former odour of sanctity las
become merged in the sweet smells of superior
creature comforts, served <<■ la. carte, or to special
order. A few months back Mr, Sheville. the
Melbourne auctioneer, took a long lease of the
dingy old printing place, where so many leaders
on Life Eternal were conceived and executed, and
thereupon proceeded to fill a long-felt want with a
certain Cafe Amjlais. The substitution of flesh pots
and rare liquors for the dry hash of spiritual
pabulum has turned out a howling success. VV hen
the best imported Johnnies are not dining at the
Melbourne or Australian Clubs, dcntcherknow,
they are generally to be found simpering over
their eight courses at the Cafe Amjlais. That
gaunt, sandy visitation, my Lord Rossmore,
is a great feature at the new restaurant,
a circumstance which serves to slightly miti-
gate the distress of those who ran their gospel
organ upon the same site aforetime. .lames Bal-
four finds a grain of comfort in the thought that
the “ Arujhus ” is at least a haunt of worldlings
who-respect the Queen. It was here that Alfred
Plumpton gave that celebrated dinner, supper, or
both, to Madame Burton and Mr. Waterlovv.
Talking of Waterlow, he is the fourteenth or
fifteenth cousin of that Miss Waterloo who,
strolling round her father’s grounds at High-
gate (in the London N. district) asked her
cavalier “Don’t you think’ighget pretty?” The
languid swell at her side said—-“ Well, weally
Miss Waterloo, always thought you were too
doosid pwetty already, bai jove ! ” —after which
the damsel picked up her lost aich and explained.
Yes, th e Cafe Amjlais has become the “cheese”
in a very short space of time. They say that
1 lopetoun, disguised in red whiskers, occasionally
totters into this rekerky trysting place. Anyway,
Dan O’Connor entertained some admirers there
last week, and the Jaynil one likes to pick the best
places for his blow-outs.
* * *
Another effort is being made to establish
Mr. Lockhart Morton’s claims upon Australasia,
as being the inventor of the swing-gate system for
< rafting sheep. One strong point against Mr.
Morton is that the Argus is backing him up, and
the Argus backs up so many false pretensions to
our national gratitude. Another difficulty to be
got over is the assertion frequently made, that-the
swing-gate was in use in England, or Scotland,
before Mr. Morton introduced his invent! n to
Australian squatters. Can anyone swear to having
seen the sheep-gate prior to 1848 ?
MORE LATE NEWS.
There’s a “ crisis ” now in Melbourne, where old
Jimmy Munro’s will is.
To pass a small amendment which may settle
Duncan Gillies;
In Sydney, Parkes is cursing at the rank bad luck
of cabby,
And lying on his back a-singing ballads to the
babby.
They say a Gympie couple have behaved with im-
propriety
Inside the sacred chamber of the Purity Society.
The democrats of Melbourne Tulloch’s object to
debauch is,
So he trotted out his army in the garish glare of
torches.
A Sydney parson’s lawful wife with sorrow's load
is laden
Because her husband learned to love a simple
choir-maiden ;
He always was a pious man and such a splendid
preacher
Until he wandered from the fold with that deli-
cious creecher.
Victorians are on the job infanticide for stoppin’,
And seem to think that J. L. Toole is not as good
as Coppin.
Our Boys are winning matches, and appear to
work together.
And when they get a beating—well, “its owing to
the weather
But, as regards the Britishers, no matter what
those men did,
The blessed daily papers wouldn’t dare to call it
“ splendid.”
That awful Melbourne scandal ’twere indecent to
descant on,
While the parties are attending at the court of
Mr. Pan ton.
Our Peter Kemp is talking of his loving country’s
honour,
But, all the same, he’s fooling poor, unfortunate
O’Connor.
The royal German “Patriot” keeps slating with
Capri vi—
We think he’s going “dotty,” yes, we do upon
our civvy !
When the Melbourne House was opened by the
little Hopetoun lordling
The comments of the Press were too ridiculously
maudlin-g.
The nights are growing chilly, but the days are
very pleasant,
And we hope you all are well, as this is leaving us
at present.
St
’Tis thus with every mother’s son !
Despite his bogus snarlings,
Old Stanley’s thoughts were running on
The dimpled ducky darlings.
As landlord of the desert vast
He flaunted oft his pennant,
And now returns to find at last
A pretty lady Tennant.
Uncomfortable once he grew
When with the sex conversing,
But now he knows a damsel who
His shyness is dispersing
The blushing Dolly ho has charmed
He hugs with courage manly,
But soon he’ll be again alarmed—
When wifey “ talks ” to Stanley.
The total income now possessed by Richard
Anthony Proctor’s wddow and seven children (four
of whom are daughters and one a little boy
invalided by hip-disease) is £lOO a year (for Mrs.
Proctor’s life only).and about £BO additional, the
result of the sale of the deceased’s copyrights.
Subscriptions in aid of the Proctor Fund will be
received by Mr. A. Cooper Ranyard, editor of
Knowledge, 11 Stone Buildings, Lincoln’s Inn,
Loudon, W.C. The great astronomer’s many
friends in Australia will doubtless help in this
matter.
EREETRADE or PROTECTION.
Some vote Protection, some Freetrade,
As best for this young country’s weal.
But ask the youth or blushing maid,
And each will answer—Pemell’s Meal !
As best, because it has been tried,
There’s nothing half so good beside.
Plis Golden Meal is what I mean,
’Tis good and pure and cheap, I wean.
Charlemont and Co., high art photographers,
Royal Arcade, altogether owe their measure of
success to the fact that the merits of their photo-
graphy are always of a high order.
The Bulletin hears that the manager of
a certain inland mine has ruined the lessee of a
local hotel by threatening to dismiss any miner
who dared to deal with him. We don't think
much of this manager and still less of his men.
An employer has no control over the actions of
his employes out of business hours, and men thus
tyrannised over should combine in the interests of
common liberty.


■T 'MM
s
£
mmm*E£sT
MatefifALS] the
BOT'r'ESULTS * FOLLOW
- TRT
DR SCOTT’S Electric Hair Brushes will posi-
tively CURE Nervous Headache or Neuralgia in
five minutes, if used according to directions. In
ordinary everyday use they will promptly arrest
falling hair and baldness, dandruff and diseases of
the scalp, and make the hair grow long and
glossy. These beautiful brushes are made with
pure bristles —not wire which injure the scalp and
cause baldness and irritation. Illustrated price
list of Dr. Scott’s Genuine Electric Appliances
posted free on application to the
Pall Mall Electric Association.
5B MARGARET STREET. SYDNEY.
For Impaired Mental Power
USE horsford’s acid phosphate.
Dr. Geo. Shearer, L.R.0.5., Liverpool, says :
“I prescribed it in a case of chorea of several
years standing, and the most inveterate tj pe,
with the happiest result. It was in the case of a
boy, aged 14, whose memory and mental powers
were beginning to suffer, and in whom the in-
voluntary movements were almost maniacal. He
is quite cured.”
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
Wolfe’s Schnapps—lt is grand.
If asked to drink, call for Wolfe’s Schnapps.
An exhilarating cordial is Wolfe’s Schnapps.
Wolfe’s Schnapps— popularity increases yearly.
Wolfe’s Schnapps—look for £1 orders.
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
1>
I
K
d
o
S
o
T
O
U
T
/Uents.
DELISSA& PHILLIPS
5 Ba*Wk Street.
Amusements.
E K MAJE ST V ’S
Lessee and Manager
Doors open at 7 ; commencing >
THEATRE.
Mr. Gee. lligr.old.
Carriages at 10.750.
IMMENSE SUCCESS! IMMENSE SUCCESS!
Mr. WIEEIAM KIGNOLD
as Jaques, in
I*h.e Two C 3 r 3a. £a> '-i s-75 -
Box Office at Tlieatre from 10 to 5. Prices as usual
j. i*. Macdonald, Acting-Manager.
aITE E I O N THEATRE.
Under the Management of Messrs. Brough and Boucicault.
By arrangement with Messrs. MACMAHON.
A SENSATIONAL SUCCESS.
LAST NIGHTS! LAST NIGHTS!
of the Celebrated Comedian,
JOHN F. SHERIDAN,
The Original
WIDOW O’BRIEN,
in the Funiest Comedy of Modern Times,
“ Fun on the Bristol,”
supported by the 35 Members of the New
English Musical Comedy Co,
Prices—Ss, 3s, 2s and Is. Box Plan at Nic'ao.son’s.
g O N D I AQUARIUM.
The Most Popular
PICNIC and PLEASURE GROUNDS op AUSTRALIA.
The Famous Switchback Railway, conveying
Passengers from Cliff to Cliff daily.
Splendid Asphalt Open-Air Skating-Rink Free to Visitors.
Open Daily from 10 a.m to 10 p.m.
Admission, Is.; Children, (id. Trams to Gate Fare, 4d
Theatre royal,
ROCKHAMPTON, QUEENSLAND.
Seating Accommodation
200, Dress Circle.
200, Stalls.
Stage, 45 x5O feet. Scenery and Fittings com-
plete, and every convenience. Sliding Roof for
ventilation. . ,
w. Gr. OAPOEN Si CO., Lessees.
For Terms and Dates, apply
SABER BROTHERS,
Rockhampton.
Theatre royal-
Lessee ••• ••• Mr. S. Lazar.
Sub Lessees, Messrs. Williamson, Garner and Musgrove.
Treasurer ~, ... ]VIr. Geo. L. Goodinan.
IMMENSE SUCCESS! IMMENSE SUCCESS !
OP
Albert Debit’s Famous Drama,
MDLLE. DE DRESSIER.
ADMISSION—Ss., Ss. and ONE SHILLING.
G
A I E T Y THEATRE.
Lessee Mr. Laurence Foley.
Under the management of
Messrs. HOLLOWAY, HOWE, and LITTLE.
EVERY EVENING ! EVERY EVENING !
will be repeated
Frank Harvey's Celebrated Drama,
JUDG-E NOT I
Popular Prices of Admission—Bs., 25., and One Shilling.
LING HUB ST SKATING RINK.
SKATING
TO-DAY
SKATING
TO-NIGHT
SKATING
TO-DAY
SKATING
to-night
SKATING
TO-DAY
SKATING
TONIGHT
SKATING
TO-DAY
SKATING
TO-NIGHT
SKATING
TO-DAY
SKATING
TO-NIGHT
SKATING
THE LARGEST AND BEST
IN THE WORLD,
Remember! Remember!
Seven Laps to the Mile.
THE SPLENDID FLOOR
PRONOUNCED
PERFECT!
THREE SESSIONS
TO-DAY.
Morning, 10 to 12. Ad.,6d. Skates
Free. Afternoon, 2.30 to 5.
Admission; Gents, Is; Ladies, 6d.
Skates, 6d.
Evening, 7.30 till 10.15.
Admission, Is. Skates, Is.
Season Tickets;
Gents, 50s. Ladies, 40s.
SKATING
TO-DAY
SKATING
TO-NIGHT
SKATING
TO-DAY
SKATING
TO-NIGHT
SKATING
TO-DAY
SKATING
TO-NIGHT
SKATING
TO-DAY
SKATING
TO-NIGHT
SKATING
TO-DAY
SKATING
TO-NIGHT
SKATING
Theatrical
H OSIBRY.
TIGHTS, SHIRTS,
AND
OPERA HOSE,
PADS, ANIMAL DRESSES, ETC.
SPECIALITIES MADE TO ORDER.
Gilt Trimmings, Boots, Stage Fabrics.
Ijjjg— Manufacturers to all leading London and Provincial
Theatres.
AUSTRALIAN AGENTS WANTED.
•q. BXJRKTBT & 00.,
42 King Street, Covent Garden, London.
R. JAMES R. PAGE, in England as
i T , Downey Bleater in “ Now-a-Days.
Permanent address : 49 Myddleton-street, Lon-
don, E.C.
M
3xr©-w.
SometHing
YOUR NAME neatly printed on Forty (40) Beautiful
Embossed VISITING CARDS, comprising Iloral
Landscape, Sea View, Bird, &c. No two alike. ALL
FOR ONE SHILLING in Stamps, postage paid. Agents
wanted. Samples free. Address—
Austral I'srtl aud Novelty Co.,
14 Hithtbr Strsrt. SVDNRT.
SILK
COTTON
WOOL
N
Furniture, &c.
EWTON AND LAMB.
FURNITURE and PIANOFORTE
WARE HOUSEMEN,
CABINETMAKERS, UPHOLSTERERS
AND
BEDDING MANUFACTURERS.
SHOW ROOMS AND MANUFACTORY:
SPRING AND O’CONNELL STREETS.
IrakvRIrVs
EASY CHAIRS, for Parlour, Library, or Bed-
rooms, new designs, covered to order, in
any material.
PIANOFORTES, by R. LIPP and SOHN,
L. NEUFELD and other Celebrated
Makers at WHOLESALE PRICES. Newton
and Lamb.
BAGATELLE BOARDS, Portable, various
sizes.
BEDROOM SUITES, complete, in various
Woods, and very handsome designs, with
7 feet Wardrobes, or with smaller Wardrobes for
single rooms. Great variety.
NEWTON and LAMB,
Furniture Warehousemen,
SPRING AND O’CONNELL STREETS.
BEDROOM SUITES, fashionable early
English designs—Wardrobe 4 feet, with
silvered plate-glass door : Washstand, with marble
top and tile back, Towel Rail; Toilet Table,
with Swing Glass attached; and Two Cane-
Seated Chairs, 14 guineas.
NEWTON & LAMB,
O’Connell and Spring Streets,
t
CANVAS FOLDING
COTS, for camping
out. A cheap occasional
bed light, strong, and
handy, 10s. 6d.
Newton & Lamb.
DINING TABLES, with patent extending
screws, from 5 feet long and up to 20 feet.
WALNUT TELESCOPIC DINING
TABLES with extra leaves, strongly
made, £3 10s.
HALL FURNITURE, HATSTANDS and
CHAIRS. LARGE ASSORTMENT.
NEWTON & LAMB.
Library furniture, centre and
SIDE TABLES, BOOKCASES, SECRE-
TARIES, READING and LOUNGE CHAIRS
COMMODE CHAIRS, BIDETS, with Pan.
SHAVING STANDS, NEWTON and
LAMB.
JAPANESE BLINDS, White or Green (extra
quality), fitted with pulleys and cord, 6xB.
6s. 6d ; BxB, 95.; 9 xB, 9s. 6d.; 10 xB, 10s. 6d. >
12 xB, 12s. 6d.; 12 x 10, 15s. Newton & Lamb.
Furniture Warehousemen, Spring and O’Connell
Streets.
EASY CHAIRS for Parlour, Library or Bed-
rooms. New Designs covered to order iu
any material. Newton & Lamb.
s
ELF-ADJUSTING CHAIR and COUCH,
for Invalids and Medical Men.
R
OCKING EASY CHAIRS, elegant and
restful —a speciality. Newton & Lamb.
ţ
A
MERICAN PATENT
SHUT UP
CLOTHES DRYER.
135 feet of hanging space.
Very Cheap.
NEWTON and LAMB.
ť
FOLDING
CHAIRS.
Substantial and Light.
Suitable for Shipboard and
Verandah.
Prick Vkry Low.
NEWTON and LAMB
Furniture Warehousemen,
Spring and o‘Connell Streets.
Y
GARDEN SEATS, 6ft. long, Rustic Cast-iron
Standards, 14s. 6d., 195., 205., 325. 6d.
Newton and Lamb.
ERAN £ A n?MS ARM LOUNGE.
Rattan verandah lounges, from
155.: and large variety of Chairs, from
10s. 6d. ; special designs, extra quality. Newton
and Lamb, Furniture Warehousemen, Spring and
O’Connell Streets. ■
EWT 0 N AND LAMB
FURNITURE and PIANOFORTE
WAREHOUSEMEN,
CABINETMAKERS, UPHOLSTERERS
and __
BEDDING MANUFACTURERS.
• Show Rooms and Manufactory ;
SPRING and O’CONNELL STREETS
RESULT OF A 2S. 6D. INVESTMENT.
The Chelmsford News says “ While on the
subject we may mention the case of Mrs. Mary
Ann Halls, of Wardley, Uppingham, whose hus-
band has been a resident of Rutland County for
over forty years. His calling is that of a shep-
herd, and it is safe to say that no one is better
known in all the country about Wardley than
John Halls. He is universally respected as an
industrious and honest man. In reciting the par-
ticulars of the ease we can do no better than use
Mr. Hall’s own statement made- to our reporter.
He says;—‘For over 18 years my wife was an
intense sufferer from rheumatism. Much of the
time her hands, elbows, knees, and feet were
swollen to two or three times their usual size so
that she was unable to walk or dress herself. S m
was, in fact, absolutely helpless. Her joints be-
came so stiff at times that she could not move
them. During these periods she suffered the most
intense agony, and in all those lung years she was
never entirely free from pain, eithei da>
or night. Different remedies were recom-
mended to her, all of which she ust ( ,
but got no relief. Our family doctoi
said there was no help for her, and tia
her case was incurable. She and 1 ba
given up all hope of her ever recovering her health
or being again free from pain. She had suffere
so long that she had become thoroughly IS
heartened. Just before last Christmas we read in
a newspaper an article, copied from the London
Magazine of Chemistry and Medicine, which
gave particulars of the wonderful cure, y
Jacob’s oil, of Edward Evans, whose case was
similar to my wife’s. As we had for years trie
everything we had heard of, she concluded to try
this remedy also, and I sent to the proprietors,
The Charles A. Yogeler Company, 45 Farnngdon.
road, London, for a bottle of it. The oil was first
applied to her hands, which had for many years
been so fearfully deformed as to be almost without
shape. Before she had used the contents of one
bottle, to our amazement and joy, the swel mg
disappeared, and her crippled hands once more
assumed their natural shape. You may we
look astonished at what I say; but I am re-
lating facts to you,’ remarked Mr. Halls. bfie
then applied the remedy to the joints of her
limbs and feet, and marvellous as it may seem, the
swelling and pain, which had withstood all treat-
nient, began to disappear, and before the contents
of this one bottle had been used, the swelling,
tiffness, and pain with which she had been
Afflicted for nearly twenty years vanished as if by
magic. She recovered the full use of her limbs,
hands, and feet. She can walk as well as ever she
could in her life, attends to her household duties,
and sleeps soundly at night, while for years she
had not known what it was to have a good night’s
rest. She is free from pain, and is completely
cured ; and all this was brought about by a single
bottle of St. Jacobs oil. I tell you frankly that 1
believe this remedy has no equal in the world, it
has brought comfort and happiness to my home,
and I advise everyone suffering from pain to try
It. The 2s. Gd. I spent for a bottle was the best
investment I ever made in my life. Mrs. Mail
personallv confirmed everything that her husband
had said, and could scarcely say enough in praise
of this remarkable of healing which had
rescued her from her sufferings.”
AN EXPERT’S OPINION.
A gentleman writes to the Editor of the \Vater-
bury as follows : “ I called on Mr. J. E. Tucker,
iunr., an expert watchmaker and engraver, who is
now with R. C. Richmond, of Glendive, Montana,
whom I had met before in St. Louis. Knowing
his hatred for the Waterbary watch, 1 was
surprised to see one of jmur signs, ‘Waterbary
Watches ’ hang in the window. Inquiry as to
this brought this in response : ‘Yes, 1 have been
down on the Waterbury watch all my life, and 1
have never sold one half-dozen of them until
during the last month. My reasons for this
change are that I consider both the series J and
•Ladies Waterbury’ to be reliable watches. 1
have tested them carefully, honestly, and with all
the exactness that I, as a practical watchmaker
could, and I believe I do my customers justice by
selling them the Waterbury watches. I believe
the company to-day to be trustworthy friends of
the legitimate watchdealer; and I feel it to be
doing them a right, my customers a just act, and
my country a blessing by discountenancing Swiss
watches and instead selling the W aterburys.
“ I have in constant use on the railroad here
nine Series ‘J’ besides thirty-two Rockford,
Elgin, and Waltham watches. Last month the
nine Waterburys made an average of IB'S seconds,
not one being over 34 seconds off. The other
watches averaged 43 to 12 seconds. The W ater-
burys were at a cost of sdol each, the other
watches from 25 to 125d01. We carry all kinds of
watches, but ‘ honesty is the best policy always,
I like the Waterburys ; they have been weighed
and not found wanting. I have decided to recom-
mend them, and to sell all of them I can.
Thadeus O’Kane.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
You have left us and passed where the laughter
Of this world sounds not, nor the sighs,
What is writ on the scrolls of Hereafter
To-day is made plain to your eyes—
You have grown wings and soared past the ratlins
That hems mortal destinies in,
You are far away now, happy Thadeus,
From sorrow and rancour and sin.
You have fled from the heat and the anger
Of Queensland to dwell in the calm
Of the King’s land, where heavenly langour
Wraps round you the arms of its balm
You have gone from where Life’s thorns are
sharpest
To a totally different clime,
Where the seraphim sing, and the harpist
Vamps always in excellent time.
You have seen. Are you wholly contented ?
Are you satisfied quite with the change !
Is it up to what’s been represented ?
Does the peacefulness strike you as strange .'
As you weave into garlands the flowers
That bloom on the Beautiful Plain
Does your mem’ry go back to the Towers —
Is it well with you, Thadeus O’Kane?
Does it strike you, while roaming through muly
And asphodel fields, and so forth,
That eternity passes more slowly
Than time did when you lived up North ?
In the infinite realms of perfection
Where all that was wrong is made right,
Do you ever have spells of dejection
Or rust for the lack of a fight ?
You who battled so fiercely and stoutly
For any course seeming like truth ;
You who knelt to her altar devoutly
And smote against fraud without ruth ;
You whose life than most men’s lives was fuller
Of effort to do what seemed best—
Don’t you feel the least trifle “ off colour ”
In regions of absolute rest ?
Do you yearn in your new sphere diviner
For the bygone tumultuous joys,
For the roaring old days of the Miner
And all the acclaim of the boys ?
In vour ears does there yet ring the howl of
Delight and dismay that arose
When each issue came out and fell foul of
All humbugs, your friends or your foes ?
You were harsh, but men saw that your bible
Was Progress, and you its true Priest:
How you plunged into quagmires of libel
And lashed at the greatest and least!
How, in language unsparing and bitter
You spoke, and were heard —aye, and felt
You were ever a vigorous hitter
But you never hit under the belt.
You have passed. No hand grasped the grea
Lever
More firmly, none sought to do more
For his kind. In Life’s turbulent fever
The days of your travail are o’er—
Far too many like you have been taken.
Far too few of your fellows remain.
In the sleep from which none may awaken
May your dreams be good, Teddy O’Kane .
The Choicest Jewellery. Dahms & Co., King-st. Arcaae.
At the Anthropometrical Laboratory in
connection with the Dunedin Exhibition, several
men were found to be colour-blind, but no women.
“ Whatever others may think of me, once
remarked President Garfield, “ there is one whose
approval X am determined to secure, for I have to
eat with him, work with him, sleep with him, and
never be quit of him night or day—and that man
is myself.
Some Melbourne lawyers wanted to bluff
off a little boy, cetat 10 or 12 years, from giving
evidence, and so catechised him : Does Cod
think Ivingr right?” “No, sir.” “Does He
think it wrong?” “ Yes.” “ Will He, do any-
thing to you if you tell lies ? T es. What.
“ I don’t know.” That boy evidently knows more
than Parliament and the Supreme Court bench.
Bona-Fide announcement. Highest cash price
given for all kinds of gent’s left otf clothing.
Drpss-suits for sale or hire. Letters promptly
StendS to by QUITTENTON BROS., 11l
Russell street, MELBOURNE. (New number,
A BOON TO HUMANITY.
’Tis food for young and food for old,
It gives new life and vital power,
There’s nothing in the market sold
Like Pbmell’s patent Snow-white Flour.
The organist ami churchwardens of a Ply-
mouth (Eng.) church have declined to admit a
songful young soldier into their choir, on the
ground that respectable people object to chortling
anthems in conjunction with the military. A
hundred daily journals are denouncing the ‘ pro-
vincial ignorance,” &c., &c. of these good people ;
yet the incident shows that sojers are estimated at
something like their actual moral value by the
British public. Parsons may ask Heavens
blessing upon our glorious defenders and exalt
them, as a corporate body, sky-high. But when
it comes to letting a corporal take up a prominent
position in the sanctuary, that he may smg
“ Peace on Earth,” or “He ye sure that ye love
another’’—then the shepherds find it convenient
to remember that the individual warrior ifc merely
an assassin out of work, and, in the words of
Gunnion, a bad, rampagious, desolate character.


Buy Wolfe’s Schnapps by the bottle.
The original genuine article —Wolfe’s Schnapps.
If your liver troubles you take Wolfe’s Schnapps.
/COUNTRY STOREKEEPERS, ETC.
Should write or call upon
A. M. MARKS & CO.,
—lmporters of—
Furniture, Pianofortes, Glass, Earthenware,
CHINA, FANCY GOODS, ELECTRO PLATE,
CICiAKS A TOBACCONISTS SUNDRIES
SOLE AGENTS FOR
Dawn Cigars and Salonica Turkish Cigarettes.
Special Novelties in all Lines for Christmas Trade.
Prices on Application to —
A.. IML* Marlca &: 00.,
Vickery’s Buildings, 74a Pitt Streeet, Sydney!
AND AT LONDON.
Tolophone, No. 919.
t
ţ
ť
WPALING *£■
3*
IT LLNttTH 1”|0-
; most complete and perfect instrument ever offered at the' price.
X Seven Octaves, Full Trichord, Iron Frame. Patent Check Action. Brass
Pin Plate, Cross-strung, requiring only the minimum of tuning. The tone
n powerful, clear, brilliant arid pure. In very elegant Black and Gold or
Walnut Cases.
This Piano is introduced by W. 11. PALING & CO., Limited, for the
purpose of meeting a long felt demand for a good, reliable instrument at au
t;, “y price, and thereby giving to the head of almost every household an
opportunity of supplying his home with a first-class Piano at a price heretofore
Depth 2Vl^l I,a,dfor i " strument - ' 0
A pure spirit—Wolfe’s Schnapps.
Mind you get Wolfe’s Schnapps.
If in need of a stimulant take Wolfe’s Schnapps
If out of sorts try Wolfe’s Schnapps,
Wolfe’s Schnapps, the purest spirit procurable.
Ask for the
Unequalled
“DAWN” 3d.
CIGAR,
ŧ
Wholesale Agents: A. M. MARKS & Co.,
Of all
Tobacconists,
Store
AND
Hotel
KEEPERS.
74a PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
HAvmW
DAWSON'S
Sole Agents for Australasia
VAUGHAN, ROGERS & 00,,
(Opposite G.P.0.)
108 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
p
E
R
F
£
C
T
I
O
N
WHISKY
SUB-AGENTS WANTED
IN THIS
PRINCIPAL CENTRES
THROUGHOUT AUSTRALASIA
The Referee
th JrffihSfe P6( ? l -h who aII alon & believed in
me right of the push to use every means to keen the
championship in Australia have become distrusted
"eaHes3 6 bh!S ht °Ti“f?’ r has lately received. Kemp, the
for v l ' lt 13 " ow announced, meet M‘Xean
strike 2 s°T^ ld ß’rn Tl?v Conn *?. r fol i "°, t ,ess than £6OO. This
strikes The Bulletin as the cheekiest proceeding* ever
heard of. Kemp will arrange a championship meeting-
with a defeated opponent who cannot be as yekreokoned
lust-class, and dictates terms to a man who pluckily made
a match with Searle when Kemp and his “ push ” y 0 pu t
y * were by no means eager to do so. 1 It might suit
the book (singular, please) of the sporting bungs to
make OConnor stale from continued training, also to
multiply matches—with the reversals of form which are
mraMk °n the part of overtrained men. It is only
tan to Kemp, however, to state that he personally ex-
presses much surprise at MXean’s challenge, and declares
ns willingness to row O’Connor for the championship arid
5 of true SJT h “
* * *
Kemp’s shilly-shallying with O’Connor confirms
the idea that he has none too much pluck. No other ex-
fn 1886 1 11 Thevla f °n h f S diBast . rous defeats on the Thames
in 1886. They say he trained heavier, but this is benefi-
cnil in a colder climate or colder season. When fairlv
collared by Searle he showed little stomach for a haM
then k 0 ° f n° + urse ,’ ? e easll -Y disposed of Hanlan, but
tben the coliaterai form with Beach on the Nepean
showed the races were certainties for Kemp.
s ?. e I * n to have flinched from Hanlan on the Thames
m 1886 without sufficient cause, otherthan their own admis-
sion that the Canadian was then a much better man than
he has ever been in Australia. Hanlan’s system of no
tiaimng here was ample, apart from other causes to
account for his repeated defeats. ’ t 0
* * *
In i ssue of The Bulletin the writer
remarked that Kemp’s offer to make a match with
0 Connor, without waiting for the result of the O’Connor-
Stansbury race, looked much like a bit of “ bluff ” and
?" ts i | lav ?,, s h o ' vn that the surmise was not far out.
1 .', 8e f , m tJ ?e know aver that Stansbury is lengths in a
imle faster than Kemp, which may be the reason the
stable will not row Kemp against O’Connor for the
modest couple of centuries and the championship, as in
the event of O Connor beating Stansbury (a very unlikely
contingency, m the writer’s opinion) they will then have
hTtf nV :,Ugg e with. In many quarters it is thought
that if O Connor closed for £5OO the other side would
begin to talk about £lOOO.
* * *
Ihe rule of the gaffer, ” which killed professional
pedestrian ism, is extending to rowing. It is amusin “fo
see a sculler turning up his nose at £2OO aside, a sum for
w.uch he would have done ever so much some few years
ago, and for half of which real champions used to struggle
hard But had Kemp been an absolutely free agent he
would doubtless have either jumped at the chance of
rowing for £4OO or altogether retired from the business.
* * *
Dan Mayne, of Bathurst Sentinel, pertinently
as « how many more times the Sydney evening papers are
going to tell their readers where Peter bor-
and the number of inches he is round the chest?
* * *
Sydney pedestrianism has of late experienced a
strange revival. For the past 12 months the game had
been steadily .going down hill, and gaffers” and run-
ners began to realise that they had killed the goose which
laid the golden eggs. The consequence was that men
who had formerly win stiff ” for a prize of several hun-
dred pounds now began to try to win at the suburban
grounds where the first money rarely exceeds a fiver or a
tenner. The proprietors took the hint, and organised
iiouce handicaps, and for one of these run last week at
the Canngton Grounds the unprecedented number of
oil entered ! These races will he patronised by lads who
woik at some trade, run more for pleasure than profit
and are, consequently, independent of the “ gaffer.”
The extinction of “ gafferism ” promotes true sport •
when a man leaves his trade to become a real professional
Sheof 1 " and nothlnB, else he is anally on the high road to
* * *
An attempt is now being made in Sydney to
boom amateur athletes. Such a consummation would he
most desirable, but it is doubtful whether, under present
mrcumstances, !t will be brought about. When anovice
(professional) handicap attracts an entry of 541 it is
evident that Sydney’s youth intends to run not for mere
honour and glory but also for “ plunder.” Moreover the
• jdney amateurs ” want to exclude labourers from the
track and this so disgusted Mr. B. R. Wise that he re-
tired. When at Oxford he strove hard and successfully to
give amateurism a liberal definition. y
* * *
Nearly twelve months ago we ventured the
Whlte s colts in England would not probably
how then-true quality until the St. Leger, which comes
A' 1 September. The Doncaster course is a mile and
three-quarters, and of a kind that will suit our horses.
* * *
„ us *' r 6'lian horses have not so far distin-
guished themselves on the English turf, but are likely to
Wn^TnVr^i!!- later on. Our best animals, such as Car-
ing and Bochiel, at last V.R.C. Autumn ran over six
nev l ? g N° ne and equa,,y well over three miles the
stamina °Knr p J oduces a combination of speed and
Ewi-u ba i the former quality must-be sacrificed
Rld , e Y’ MMnjftray, &c., were unapproached
mnXn! m®’ but "i? uld be n °where opposed to the
modern Sheffield men who confine themselves to Sprinting.
* * *
When victorious, Australia “blows,” and. of
Oiwa f’ ( '/u at j® mclined to make excuses ; but those
th , e , mglonous show of the horses now in
defects of IS fhif i? tO 9 thin ” We put all down to the
i of the English system of training, and opinions
ouoffid y e i PreS f S - ed *| 3y Jo - hn Taifc and others are freely
investigation will show that Honest John and
nracHcp C nf 1° fa,dt with English trainers for their
ffi fact h r r , ses . tOO bi S to the post-hog-fat,
imnnccri KT n he English critics from the beginning pro-
rd CedN r ,aI J and ?, lrkham t 0 be coar se brutes that
conSadfctory ° Ught fine en ° Ugh ’ This is certahl,y
* * *
Ja mes White’s winnings on the turf are
lloncsiZthc v a J ge la Australi ffi But how do they pale
fSr the Ya ; ikee winnings ! The Dwyer Brothers in
r n L “‘ y “ th ”
* * *
Hip "?• E Oatley, although some time on
L itt, 0 U f ;r de hia / r t r f. ally h'if win on Saturday, when
Mr nat dy a :r^ d uu the Royal Stakes at Randwick.
Cun and thPref? lg n° rn « ext Saturday for the Birthday
ca rm t therefore, has a big show for the double. He
S?' ” for a third share of the late Hon. Edward Flood’s
u timp t t at i e i° fun^should nofc ®tand in the way '? his
ultimately becoming a leading light of sport
# ♦
testbv k i£kp e k W p as P ertainly be aten in a glove con-
Puiipif ,^ a h er i hut when it conies to a go-as-you-please
Mick DooffivTacm i” . A 9 st . ra,ia - 0n 011 e occasion big
for k i? - Jack l ? ut he suffe red a broken head
t-h fi y vA t ’l n °U on , g Smce Fuller was having a
tar wheu\Tp fi tb a ?' g Ir,mp ° f a raan in a hotel-
nerf the heavy weight, seeing Jack wag a bit too
2i f “ r Wm, seized a tumbler and slung it at his op-
own o'n'm >,** lca t' Scott, ’ quoth Fuller, “ he’s started my
? d "S a " d le « s tune than it takes to tell he seized
a decanter and laid the big ’un out.
* * *
terrified when they gaze at our
l, ni,'fi d ‘-r U -/ en ? ea wh,ch . like other things, become,
of less temb , le i but perhaps, after all, none
r ivprnll ?l e0 * 1 5 Se xT S would be a moral certainty over the
„;,y„' l° ol V ra, |d National course. Last month of 19
y w flmshed - Martin Loughlin, of Ballarat,
l,f t ,' ? tl ‘; aily but unsuccessfully ran an Irish “lepper”
mP i ror >’i out of Empress, the winner of 1880.
S l !!,’ of all men, should be able to form a pretty
NatinnVi dBa n a3 l° Austraba ’ a possibilities in re the Grand
his servL He ha 3, owned the best of jumpers, and had in
a saddle «;nn„^.° d cro , B i', count ry horsemen as ever sat in
and co fIH U n "l orld began. He has plenty of money
Whit? 1 stand the En gl ish racket as Mr. James
hair mirled^every day! Pel ' S ° nal extrava » ance is having his
* ' * St
a PParent harmony existing
obst-iHPQh! rvn° b ‘g, stables” in their desire to throw
shonki , ™™n*2 nort .f )ftt N races bet " r een their prate,jes
snoulu aiouse little enthusiasm,
* * *
T ,£? recently met a big heavy-weight, called
L W d ! he result a PPeared to indicate two things
Peter eannot hit hard; next, that he would
man f ox f ,han ln a ring-fight. Lambert-a
hl!,!,r! ?) ? nnot hlt straight—closed as often as he liked,
Now wifh et n *’• B ®y eral times, and nearly broke his back.
now, with height reach, and science in his favour, Jack-
Th'. S !°| l d haV ® half-killed such a man before he closed.
essen?£i y „ ret l uislt . e V as ,P owde r in his blows, but that
essential was seemingly absent.
* * #
' ,s ,said that a Paddington publican, who is one
of M Lean s principal backers, prematurely decorated his
house in anticipation of the dark’un’s victory.
#
The first foal by that game old horse, Nelson,
has been christened “First Nelson.” The colt’s dam is
Corcjra, by King Tom, a relative of the defunct Lurline.
All Nelson s get show splendid bone and substance. Major
& 6 A aS ™^ d a i evel . £so ° that Nelson’s stock will
beat Nordenfelt s the first time they meet.
* * #
They say that Jackson is walking in the paths
of most pugs. For this we are sorry; barring his skin,
Peter is the whitest man of the whole boiling of ’em
* * #
In an English country match recently, Notts v.
Sussex Notts scored 590 in their first innings, Gunn and
Shrewsbury going in first and remaining together until
. , ru ? 3 wm'e scored. Gunn has been in some remarkable
cricket partnerships. In a match on the East Melbourne
Cricket Grountl, in 1887, Gunn and Shrewsbury put on
JlO without a separation, and on another occasion Gunn
with Barnes as partner, playing for M.C.C. against
Yorkshire, made 310 before a wicket fell. Gunn was the
most successful batsman in England last season.
* # #
!t would be interesting to know what weight
would bring Bellrmger behind his field. In the hurdle
race on Saturday (two miles and a quarter) the old geld*
mg won with 13st. 41b.—1861bs.—up. B
* * *
A spirited picture, in the Illustrated London
Nkws, of the Liverpool Grand National Steeplechase
mukes one sigh over the terrible slaughter of jockeys in
the Australian racing field. Now, there is nothinf like
this in EngJancl. All England is shocked if a jockey is
killed! We don t remember when we read the last case
in the papers. But in Australia a jockey undergoes far
more risk than a soldier going into battle, if you tot up
all the casualties. y
* * *
Narellan and Kirkham being nephews of George
Iredenck, a circumstance may be recalled in regard to the
Derby he won. The tipster of a leading sporting paper
wrote ; If George Frederick wins I’ll eat the ugly brute,
hoofs and all. George Frederick did win. Which re-
minds one of the Melbourne paper which published a list
of the starters for Melbourne Cup, on the dav when
Assyrian won it, and Assyrian was the only one left out—
too nonsensical to put him in—but a shower of rain put
him in, y
# * #
The Narrabri Show will be held on the 18th and
19th of June next, when large prizes will be given for
jumping, sheep, and sheep-shearing-machines.
• * •
The bicycle championship of the world and £l5
was recently won at Wolverhampton by R. English of
North Shields, who defeated Howell, of Leicester ’hv
ship 2min ‘ 54seo ‘ Small stake for a °hampion*
« # #
As Mr. Mulligan, who came over with O’Connor
ostensibly as his backer and friend, has returned already
to Frisco, it is to be supposed that he was not impressed
with the Canadian’s chance of defeating our representa-
tives. Frank Punch has since taken O’Connor in hand
but as his confidence only runs to £2OO in stake-money
the Deeble-Kemp contingent have refused to make a
match for the championship and such a paltry sum As
Kemp rowed Matterson and M'Lean for a similar sum
tootavery much as if the Stansbury-Kemp stable feared
that O Connor having been defeated by the former might
defeat the latter and skip to America with the honour
leaving a better man behind hungering for a match. The
whole business is mysterious.
* * #
Curses loud and deep from the public, and broad
smiles from the children of Israel over the running for the
Steeplechase at Randwick on Saturday. Bushman
backed for a pot of money at evens, was winning in a
canter when his rider, Holman, finished on the wrong
course. An inquiry was held, but Holman was exonerated”
* * *
American money will be piled on to Sullivan as
against Jackson. An American paper says that the victor
in this contest will be well able to retire from the rim*- for
his reward will be the greatest gladiator ever won.”’ In
America nine out of ten sporting men apparently think
Jackson no match for Sullivan.
» * *
Sold again, and got the money ! You know the
rows of well-worn cheap Bibles they have in the Mission
Halls. Rev. Slawkenbergins went to Burton’s Restaurant
under Melbourne Hall of Commerce, and was delighted to
find the row of nice well-thumbed little leather Bibles
on a window-shelf. He opened one—“ Turf Register
1889-90,
* # *
After having at one time much the worst of the
game, the Australian cricketers, mainly through the
agency of Blackham, who scored 75 runs in the first
innings, 50 of which were made in 35 minutes, defeated
the Surrey team at Kennington Oval by eight wickets.
At the time of writing the “ tykes ” resident in Aus-
tralia are very jubilant, for Yorkshire has so far very
much the best of the encounter.
This is the season when Alderman Smith
of N.S.W. bites Alderman Johnson’s ear and
kicks him when he is down.
Lord Rosebery said of “ His Natural
Life’’that it had “all the solemn ghastliness of
truth,” and for nearly seven years vainly we have
been trying to understand what the noble lord
meant by selecting Truth as a type of solemn
ghastliness.
Rudyard Kipling, aged 29, whose slangy,
clever fluent verses in the Scots Observer and
elsewhere, and whose tales and essays in other
publications have attracted so much attention
lately, is the son of Principal Kipling, of the
Lahore School of Art.
We have before us a nicely-printed six-
penny pamphlet entitled “A _ Refutation of the
Single Tax Theory and a Criticism of Progress
and Poverty,” written by Alfred G. Yewen, a
Sydney Socialist, which deals very ably with the
question from the socialistic standpoint.
The new system inaugurated last Tuesday
at the School of Arts will be hailed with joy and
gladness. No longer, like the early inhabitants
of Botany Bay, will you be known by your num-
ber and have to wait till a ponderous ledger is
searched ; now you have simply to give your
name which will be found on a card in an alpha-
name in order to get fresh books and be relieved
of the oldfones. A large consignment of all the
latest and best authors has just been opened.
( The late Mr. Joseph Paxton, Parson
Gardiner’s father-in-law, took £128,000 worth of
gold out of his Hill End mine. A couple of miners
named Riley have just taken £4OOO worth of gold
in a month out of the old “Northumberland
Jimmy” mine at Hill End. They bought the
claim for £l5, and are now on a vein yielding five
ounces to the ton; a leader between it and the
footwall is almost pure gold, bars of which are an
inch in thickness. They say they can put in a
shot and get a hundred pounds worth of gold out
any time.
Dear Bulletin, —On a Darling River
steamer the crew mutinied on account of being
fed eternally on pie. Now pie is “goot for the
stomjacks” occasionally, but when it conies to
table for breakfast, dinner and supper it gets mono-
tonous. So the crew thought. The “old man”
was appealed to. He gave a written verdict and
attached same to the pie by jabbing a fork through
the paper: “ This is d d good pie ; give the
(term of endearment used among sailors) nothing
else until this here pie goes.’’ That night the pie
went —overboard, and the crew went back to duty.
—Kupotee.
Edward Lloyd, the departed proprietor of
the London Daily Chronicle, was an unrivalled
man for keeping old hands about him. He had in
his employment two of his brothers, who had been
with him nearly half a century. This alone speaks
volumes for the man. The theatrical critic dat $
back to old Phelps, at Sadler’s Well*. So with
every other servant who gave any pretence for
being kept. The consequence w T as an immense
esprit de corps, which lifted the Chronicle up at a
bound when Lloyd acquired it. Seven sons and
six daughters followed the remains of the old man
to the grave.
The Rev. Andrew Gardiner, who has got
into difficulties with his congregation at the Glebe,
Sydney, and is said to have been served with a
divorce-writ, was a bit of a plunger on the share-
market. Although a temperance advocate of the
extreme order, it was an open secret in business
circles in Sydney that he held shares—in the
names of others—in at least a couple of
breweries. _ In delivering a sermon it was no un-
common circumstance for the rev. gentleman to
burst into tears. Which reminds one of an episode
in “The Silence of Dean Maitland,” who was also
addicted to tearful sermons and at the bottom of
whose troubles there appears to have been a girl,
R.I.P.
He was just
As plain
As a knot,
But we must
Maintain
That he’d got
One good
Qualitee,
Which should
Always be
Counted in,
Now he’s dead.
For the de-
Ceasdd
Never said
That he
Wrote for The
Bulletin.
Mr. L. Cohen, who responded for S. A.
Parliament at a recent banquet, is, says the
Hamilton Spectator, “ a Jew in name, birth,
and appearance, but a, thoroughly good fellow.”
“ But!” From this we infer that a good Christian
is editing the Ham. Spec.
Mr. Bobby Ross, of Taranganba, will,
The Bulletin presumes, now proceed to try and
put Miner Corbett into gaol for criminally
slandering him. Corbett’s statements afford Mr.
Boss an excellent opportunity for setting himself
right with the victims of one of the most impudent
and mysterious affairs in the history of gold-mining.
Brief but touching reminiscence from the
Melbourne Age :
Here is a pretty little story which shows the same two
princes at play. The other day the empress took her two
eldest hoys to a Berlin toy shop to buy presents for the
birthday of Prince Adalbert, one of their younger
brothers. The delight of the boys on being shown over
the shop was expressed in shouts of pleasure as each new
toy was put before them, but they never omitted to ask
the price of an article, having evidently received a warn-
ing from their parents that their resources were not un-
limited, and that even the pleasure of giving and receiv-
imr birthday presents might he bought at too great a
price.
The Bulletin perceives in this anecdote a solemn,
subdued pathos which is infinitely touching. It re-
quires to be read slowly and prayerfully to take in its
full import, and it sounds best when accompanied
by slow music. It also requires to be read several
times over, and even then the reader should take
it to bed with him in case he should wake up and
cry for it during the night. It is a paragraph
which ought to be copied out and given to the
poor, and it should be considered in all its aspects
by Sunday-school teachers, hangmen, clergymen,
chimney-sweeps, gaol-floggers, and all other
seekers after the Terewth. At the first glance, no
doubt, it may seem frivolous and unimportant, but
its beauty grows by imperceptible degrees till at
last one would gladly leave his mother while she
was in the very act of falling over a precipice to go
and read it over again for the hundred and
sixtieth time, and if the lost female was dead and
decomposed by the time he managed to tear him-
self away from this important printed observation
it would at least be gratifying to remember that
she had been offered up as a sacrifice at the shrine
of literature. And even then the interest would
probably keep on growing and expanding, until at
last the student abandoned his home and friends
and fled naked into the wilderness that he might
sifc down and keep on reading it and be at rest
where there were no distracting influences to shake
him up and disturb his appreciation of its moral
loveliness; and there, in a land which grew
nothing but silence and death and old volcanic
cones, he would camp out with this literary effort
in his hand and study it till the old age of the
earth. It might be scattered round with advan-
tage, too, among the heathen who is unprovided
with pants on a coral strand, and offered to the
idolater who wanders by the rivers of Africa
with a ring through his nose for his entire outfit,
in the reasonable hope that when that uncultured
stranger took the whole of his wardrobe out of his
olfactory organ and hung it on a nail for the night
he would retire to rest a ; better and nobler indivi-
dual than he had ever been before. And wherever
a stunted savage is to be found meditating on a
barren, tempestuous shore, and looking in the un-
certain twilight of ignorance and spiritual gloom
like a dishevelled cat on the top of a withered
tree, we would desire that the blessings of this
brief, comprehensive anecdote should be conferred
upon him for the enlargement of his mental facul-
ties, and in the hope that it would ultimately
lead him to a better land where he might
be _an etherealised cannibal, and have some
solid ideas of his own instead of merely a few
dubious instincts scattered over him in patches
and spots. We ha ve a number of other suggestions
to make on this affecting subject, but our emotion
is rendering us more and more incoherent, and we
feel compelled to adjourn. Ever since the Age
issued the thrilling statement which has called
forth this feeble and imperfect expression of our
enthusiasm we have laid aside all other pursuits
and devoted ourselves to an exclusive study of the
circumstances under which these two small Ger-
man princes hollered in that toy-shop in the far-off
Fatherland. We desire, if possible, to live up to
the ideal of that paragraph, or if the example it
sets is too lofty to be attained we want to reach as
near to it as we can. We feel a longing to roar.
We want to hover in a purer atmosphere, and
above all things we pine to be there and be at rest.
Also, we want the address of the Age’s German
correspondent, so that that gentleman may be
and expeditiously killed in as com-
plete and finished a manner as the resources of
modern science will permit, and we desire that
the ceremony shall be carried out regardless of
expense.


Business Announcements.
PJIIDDY & CO.,
I manufacturers
MERCER^:
438 George Street, Sydney.
Branch—67B George Street, Brickfield Hill.
Hats made to Order-
Morley’s Hosiery.
READ THIS
Webern Australia is a much richer colony than is
g nera ly supposed as regards minerals, agriculture and
t" ■’for.ilisni. - Sir Samuel Orittitb.
P ifessor Brown, of Victoria, who made a thorough
i\ urination of the south-western portion of Western
i u tralia, states that not the other colonies only, but
ev n the people of Western Australia evidently do not
k ow how much there is waiting for development. He
s i.w thousands of acres in contiguous blocks of fine choco-
late lands, light clay loams, and peaty soils. He thinks
the important features of the district are its grand climate
and regular rainfall.
“ History renea's itself,” and as surely as Sydney and
Melbourne have made Imht-i’iv-like progress, so will
PERTH,’
the Capital of West Australia.
TEN POUND BUILDING SITES
at PERTH, WESTERN AUSTRALIA.
Allotments, Splendid Position, Good Land.
Only tl deposit, easy terms ; discount for cash. Buyers
of five lots receive a' free deed. Title (Torrens's) guaran-
teed to bj indisputable.
Also, CITY LOTS, from f‘33 each,
on similarly easy terms.
Marked plans at;' l pamphlets posted to any address on
application to
THE INTERCOLONIAL INVESTMENT
COMPANY, Limited,
9(1 Bathurst-street, Sydney,
W. J. DOUGLAS, Manager.
NOTICE.
nHERRY-BLOSSOM,
I J By the Author of “ Madam's Ward,” &c.,
In commenced in
TVAMILY HERALD PART for APRIL,
1 which contains also the continuation of
QWEN DALE’S ORDEAL.
t NEW NOVEL,
_A. By the Author of “ A Bitter Reckoning,” &c.
Also, complete Stories, Essays, ‘ Answers to
Corres|K)iideuts, Cookery, Miscellanea, Enigmas,
Charades, Riddles. &c.
TdAMILY HERALD PART for APRIL.
The
II AMI LY HERALD may be had in Half-yearly
1 Volumes and in Monthly Parts of all Colonial
Booksellers and Newsagents'; or the Monthly Part
direct from W. Stevens, 421 Strand, London,
England, for 14s. per annum, post free.
London; W. Stevens, 421 Strand; and at all
Newsvendors.
PROBLEM OF TO-DAY -WHERE CAN WE GET GOOD
BOOTS?—SOLVED AT LAST.
E. FRENCH
{The French of years ago)
Can supply Residents here with Boots better made than
ever. Boots that must wear well and give satisfaction.
Send your orders then to 82 Oxford Street, and be sure
to enclose Sizes and Remittance, when your parcel will be
sent at once by Post, Rail, or Steamer.
Notice Prices for Boots that look well, wear well
and fit well.
Children’s Elastic-sides, 2/-, 2/11, 3/6, 4/-, 4/6, etc. I Best
Men’s & Youths’ ditto, 5/6, 6/-, 6/6, 7/6, 8/6, etc. / Boots
Men’s & Boys’ Bluchers, 2/11, 4/-, 5/-, 6/-, best ever made.
A Line of Stylish Laced Boots for Best Wear
(Boys’, Youths’ and Men’s Sizes).
J3F“ ENGLISH BOOTS for LADIES, CHILDREN, etc.,
Sent as ordered. Lowest Price.
Satisfaction given or Money Returned.
Note the Address:
eclipse BOOT CO.,
83 Oxford Street, SYDNEY.
E. French, Manager.
D. C. lE-.-
(:)
VERY = Olil) = SPECIAL
SCOTCH = WHISKY.
DISTILLERIES CO. (Limited).
RAIN’S FAMILY b COMMERCIAL HOTEL,
PRINCES STREET,
( Opposite G.P.O.y
ID TJ IST IE ID 11ST, UsT.ZL
A LEX. r AIMER
Proprietor.
SHRACER^
k
iv
*4
SCIENTIFIC
INSTRUMENT MAKER
GS-razidL Pier Hotel, Manly.
4 r
if r
ELECTRIC PHOTOENC- CO., 8 BRIOCE-ST, SYDNEY-
LATIIIKK >( BSKOOKE • • * ' Proprietors.
This Hotel has been lie Furnished throughout. ZW* Cuisine aud Comfort, a Speciality.
Aarons’
Exchange Hotel, Sydney.
:Y ■
i. «
-p'.>
I? [h f
Li M »
m
■ ;
H
»&v
■
■■Hi
. - -
Adjoining the Sydney Exchange,
Mining, Financial and General Mercantile Intelligence
Posted several times DAILY in the Building.
TELEGRAPH, POST and MONEY ORDER OFFICES on the PREMISES.
This Hotel has been thoroughly renovated and re-furnished, and is now unrivalled for comfort
'' aU " ltl 11 Aarons’ Exchange Hotel Co. (Limited), Proprietors.
“THE
PLU M.”
THIS brand of Razor is something superior to anything that has ever been offered to the public.
Pure hollow ground, beautiful silver steel, and rings like a bell; set ready for use, and we
guarantee each Razor for two years'., It never requires grinding, and to gentlemen who shave them-
selves they cannot possibly do better than to try this particular brand.
Price
! Single Razor, in strong leather case, 10/6; Pair, in beautiful morocco leather case, 21/-
\ Single Razor, ivory handle, 15/-; Pair Razors, ivory handles, in beautiful case, 30/-
Registered and sent Post Free to any part of the Australian colonies.
SOLE AGENTS: CJ3FB.A.IG- & AITKE3ST, Potosi Hairdressing Saloon,
680 4. 682 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
JONES’ SEWING MACHINES,
FOR THE BOOT AND TAILORING TRADES.
The Best Manufacturing Machines in Existence*
Now Perfected, the New No. 3 and No. 4 Machines on an Entirely new System.
stock: just hl .a_ ist :d i ixto.
Farlel&n, Netthelm, & Co.
TANNERS AND LEATHER MERCHANTS,
16 x YORK x STREET, x SYDNEY .
Sole Agents for the above for New South Wales and Queensland.
' ‘ * ' ‘- r " -(*>
Terms.
Molloal.
DR. RICHARDS.
This eminent Specialist, Founder, and Chief
Surgeon of the long-established and favourably-
known Dispensary that now bears his name, re-
ceived his medical education in the leading colleges
and hospitals of Europe. He has devoted a life-
time to the study of
PRIVATE, NERVOUS, AND SKIN
He has by profound research thoroughly investi-
gated their origin, traced their deadly sources and
insidious dissemination, and ascertained the surest
and safest methods by which they may be eradi-
cated, with these widely recognised qualifications
combined with unswerving faithfulness to hi?
patients, he has during his practice, extending
over FORTY YEARS, attained a well-deserved
pre-eminence in their treatment. His practice
embraces diseases which probably cause more un-
happiness than any other class of troubles that
afflict mankind.
who suffer from the results of early follies, trans-
gressions or excesses of more nature age, bladder
difficulties, a whitish or dark ropy sediment in
the water, accompanied by slight burning or
smarting sensation, Headaches, Drowsiness during
the day, circles round the eyes, Giddiness,
irregularity of the bowels, specks before the eyes,
bashfulness, discontentedness, weakness or pains
in the back. Liver or kidney complaints, dreams,
buzzing noises in the ears and head, pimples, a
fear that something dreadful is about to happen,
weak stomach, yellow or blood-shot eyes, impure
blood, hasty, uncontrollable temper, hacking
cough, who cannot marry, nervousness in society,
wakefulness, palpitation of the heart, general
weakness, and other symptoms which lead to in-
sanity and death, should consult him, for he has
mastered these difficulties. On receipt of Cd. in
stamps he will send secure from observation in a
plain wrapper, postage
FREE, A LARGE CLOTH-BOUND
Showing plainly how all diseases of the private or
nervous system may be cured thoroughly and per-
manently without unnece?sary expence. This
book will prove a valuable companion, and even
though you be perfectly well its general inform-
tion and prescription may assist you in restoring
some poor friend to health even after his case has
been pronounced incurable by his medical at-
tendant.
ONE POUND IS SUFFICIENT TO
SEND
for Remedies necessary for the cure of NER-
VOUS DEBILITY. Should you require medical
treatment, as procrastination is sometimes dan-
gerous, it would be advisable for you to sit down
quietly in your chamber and write to the doctor,
detailing every experienced symptom. He will
on receipt of such a letter, write you, promptly
and courteously, a candid and straightforward
oponion of your case. If you do not think you
understand the case, send for his famous medical
work, the price of which is but sixpence ; enclosed
in the volume will be found a list of carefully-pre-
pared questions-, which will, in all probability,
assist you materially in describing your ailment.
Dr. Richards uses nothing but the purest remedies,
and never prescribes mercury under any circum-
stances. The moment letters arc carefully per-
used and answered they are destroyed by tire,
and patients may rest assured that their cases
will remain a secret between the doctor and
themselves. Dr. Richards has successfully treated
nearly 25,1)00 cases since coming to Australia, and
has permission from at least 10,000 persons to
show their written evidence of his success. All
communications should be addressed
>7 spring Street-
COff Pitt Street North)
S Y D U E Y.
Be sure to mention this paper when writing
DISEASES.
YOUNG MEN
BOOK.
RICHARDS,
CONSULTATION FREE.
“Be hevvins! I'll whang the knob off ye! Chargin' me four dollars yesterday to insure the old
woman against accidents, an’ the furst thing this moinin’ she falls down the cellar stairs wid a bucket
o' coal, an' now would yez look at her!.” -LIFE.


Buy Wolfe’s Schnapps by the bottle.
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
Ladies’ Silver Watches, 355. Daiims & Co., King-street
Arcade.
Wolfe’s Schnapps-—a mild stimulant.
A VERY BREASTPLATE
AGAINST COUGHS, COLDS, &o.
This is how the
REVD, MARK GUY PEARSE
The great Wesleyan Preacher, refers to
ALLCOCK’S
POROUS
PLASTERS
And it only needs a trial to prove their great
value. They are applied externally and can be
Worn with perfect comfort and ease, generally
relieving and curing in from three to four days.
In Asthma, Bronchitis, Rheumatism, Lumbago,
Sciatica, they are simply invaluable, and many of
the little complaints that grow into big ones
through improper treatment might be avoided by
wearing one on the chest and-another between the
shoulder blades. Never has such genuine testi-
mony been given before.
ALLCOCK’S Porous PLASTERS
are sold by all Chemists in various sizes, from
Is. l£d. to 225. (id., but be very careful to see that
you get A LLCOCK S, as abominable rubbish is
being palmed off by unscrupulous traders.
Eye - Sight Restored.
WHY SUFFER 1 We'send'gauge for testing sight,
a treatise on “Vision,” and all information free. Spec-
tacles of every description from Is.; Pebbles from ss.
Pilot Field Glass, clear definition five miles, with case.
“Liver” Telescope, with astronomical glass, clear
six miles, 21s. Good going Silver Watches, 255.,
niokle, 12s. (id., 15s. and 205., guaranteed two years.
W. E. Toose, Optician, IIS-George-street, Sydney.
Awarded Nine Medals at various Exhibitions
JOHN BRIDGE & 0 0..
CinCULAII QUA y'i SI7SS.KX STREET, J;
mUtUIXQ: llAltUOi'll,
WOOL BROKERS,
Hides, Tallow, Sheepskins, Kmnjaruo, Bear and
Opossum Skins, <|v-.
graikt s^_x_«E;s3vi;E;isr.
JJUDDART, PARKER & CO.’S LINE
STEAM TO
MELBOURNE and TASMANIA.
From Huddart, Parker’s Wharf.
For Time and Dale of Sailing, see daily papers.
The magnificent steamship, BURRUMBEET and
ELINGAMITE, have established an unrivalled reputation
for their speed and accommodation, and their large size
ensures passengers a maximum of comfort. The saloon
cabins are light, airy and very roomy. The dining saloon
is full width of the ships, also magnificent music room,
with gentlemen’s smoking room and splendid promenade
deck. Fore-cabin is on the main deck—lofty and well-
ventilated, perfect sanitation and ample lavatories. Fore-
cabin passengers provided with victuals and rugs. Inspec-
tion invited on days of sailing.
FARES to MELBOURNE:
0
0
0
1' ARES To LAUNCESTON :
Saloon, Single ... £2 5
~ Return 315
E orecabin 10
FARES to HOBART :
Saloon, Single £1 0
„ Return 110
0
0
0
0
0
Return Tickets available fur Six Months.
For Freights apply
HUDDART, PARKER & CO-
(Limited).
Office and Wharf; Foot of Margaret Street, Sydney.
No mother who loves her children, who takes
pride in their beauty, purity and health, and in
bestowing upon them a child’s greatest inherit-
ance, — a skin without blemish, and a body nour-
ished by pure blood, should fail to make trial of
the Guticura Remedies.
Guticura, the great skin cure, and Guticura
Soap, an exquisite skin bcautifier, prepared from
it, externally, and Guticura Resolvent, the new
blood purifier, internally, are a positive cure for,
every form of skin and blood disease, from pimples
to scrofula, from infancy to age.
Have been in the drug and medicine business
twenty-five years. Have been selling your Cuti-
cura Remedies since they came West. They lead
all others in their line. Wo could not write nor
could you print all we have heard said in favor of
the Guticura Remedies. One year ago the Ccti-
cura and Soap cured a little girl in our house of
the worst sore head we even saw, and the Resolv-
ent and Guticura are now curing a young gentle-
man of a sore log, while the physicians are trying
to have it amputated. It will save his leg and
perhaps his life. Too much cannot be said in
favor of Guticura Remedies.
S. B. SMITH & BRO., Covington, Ky.
Bold everywhere. Price : Guticura, 50c. ; Soap,
25c.; Resolvent, $l. Prepared by the Potter
Drug and Chemical Co., Boston, Mass.
Infantile Loveliness
Wien six months old, the left hand of onr little
grandchild began to swoll, and had every appear-
ance of a largo boil. Wo poulticed it, but all to no
purpose. About five months after, it became a
running sore. Soon other Bores formed. He then
had two of them on each hand, and as his blood
became more and more impure, it took less time
for them to break out. A sore came on the chin,
beneath the under lip, which was very offensive.
Ills head was one solid scab, discharging a great
deal. This was his condition at twenty-two months
old, when I undertook the care of him, his mother
having died when lie was a little more than a year
old, of consumption (scrofula of course). lie could
walk a little, hut could not get up if he fell down,
and could not move when in bed, having no
use of his hands. I immediately commenced
with tlio Cuticuua Remedies, using all freely.
One sore after another healed, a bony matter
forming in eacli one of these five deep ones
just before healing, which would fiually grow
loose and were taken out; then they would heal
rapidly. One of these ugly bone formations I pre-
served. After taking a dozen and a halt bottles he
was completely cured, and is now, at the age of six
years, a strong and healthy child.
Mns. E. 8. DRIGGS,
612 E. Clay St,, Bloomington, 111
iegy* Send for “ How to Cure Skin Diseases/’ 64
pages, 50 illustrations, and 100 testimonials.
GABY'S
jin, scalp and hair preserved and beau,
tied by the use of Cuticuka Soap.
PINT
PLES, blackheads, red, rough, chapped and
oily skin prevented by Cuticura Soap.
Address: R. TOWNS & CO., SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Shipping.
TT NION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF NEW
w ZEALAND. Limited.
SAN FRANCISCO ROYAL MAIL SERVICE.
OVERLAND ROUTE TO ENGLAND VIA SAN
FRANCISCO AND NEW YORK,
Calling at
AUCKLAND and HONOLULU, ,
Avoiding alike the heat of the Red Sea and the cold
of Cape Horn.
Under Contract with the I’ostmasters-General'of New
South Wales and New Zealand, the steamers of this line
are appointed to leave Sydney and Auckland for Honolulu
and San Francisco every fourth Wednesday, sailing as
under:-—. . .
Each steamer carries a duly qualified surgeon.
These steamers are fitted with Electric Light and with a
Refrigerating Chamber for ship provisions, insuring a
plentiful supply of ice throughout the voyage.
Passengers are booked to San Francisco or through to
European destinations and have at San Francisco choice of
the unrivalled Atlantic Steamship Lines of the Cunard,
Inman, White Star, and other companies.
All first-class passengers are allowed 3501 b. of baggage
to San Francisco and 2501 b. “Overland ” free of charge.
THROUGH FARE TO LIVERPOOL.
FIRST-CLASS A 63 to £66.
Time-cards, railway maps, and gu de books, showing all
routes to any point in the United States, may be had on
application ;
For rates of passage and freight and all other informa-
:ion apply at the Company’s Offices, 15 Bridge-street.
FREDK. W. JACKSON, Manager.
|~JIREOT SERVICE TO ENGLAND.
PENINSULAR AND ORIENTAL STEAM
NAVIGATION COMPANY.
The Company's Royal Mail Steamships (under contract
with the Imperial, New South Wales, Victorian, and South
Australian Governments) will be dispatched from their
Wharf, Circular Quay, as under, for LONDON, calling at
Melbourne, Adelaide, Albany, Colombo, Aden, Brindisi,
Malta, Gibraltar, and Plymouth.
And henceforth every alternate week.
RESERVED CABINS ON MODERATE TERMS.
SALOON PASSENGERS MAY BREAK THEIR.JOURNEY.
The arrangements for SECOND SALOON PASSENGERS
having been thoroughly re-organised, the accommodation
now offered is unsurpassed. Passage-money can be paid
here for passages from England. Liberal concessions made
to families. Passengers, cargo, and parcels are booked
through to India, China, and Japan. Cargo and parcels
will not be received, after 3 p.m. on the day previous to
sailing, For all information apply at the Company’s
Offices, 247 George-streot. A. MACLEAN Acting Agent.
Shipping.
NORDDEUTSCHER LLOYD
IMPERIAL GERMAN MAIL.
Passengers are carried according to the requirements of
the English Passenger Acts of 1885 and 1863.
MONTHLY LINE OF DIRECT STEAMERS
from
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, and ADELAIDE,
to SOUTHAMPTON, ANTWERP, and BREMEN, via
COLOMBO, Aden, Suez, and Genoa,
taking passengers for London,
cbnnecting from PORT SAID by DIRECT MAIL and
PASSENGER LINE to BRINDISI,
will be despatched as follows (if practicable):,—
Salier W.Reimkast’n July 16 July 19'July 22
Niirnberg .. ,11. Englebart lAug. 13 Aug. 16-Aug. 19
And thereafter every four weeks.
PASSAGE MONEY from SYDNEY,
£l4 to £57 10s.
RETURN TICKETS, available for NINE and TWELVE
MONTHS, at REDUCED RATES.
Passengers and Cargo are booked through to New York,
via Southampton.
Special facilities are afforded for bringing out relatives
and friends from the United Kingdom and Europe by pre-
payment of the passage money in Australia.
For FREIGHT, PASSAGE, and all further particulars,
apply to FREDK. BETZ & CO., Agknts, 5 O’Connell-street.
COMPAGNIE DES MESSAGERIES MARI*
TIMES.
SYDNEY to LONDON.
OVERLAND FROM MARSEILLES via PARIS.
Steamers under postal contract with the Government of
France, calling at MELBOURNE ADELAIDE, KING
GEORGE’S SOUND, MAHE, SUEZ, and PORT SAID.
Passengers booked to KURRACHEE, BOMBAY,
MAURITIUS, and EAST COAST of AFRICA.
The service is carried on by powerful steamers of 4000
tons and 3000 effective h.p., built expressly for the Aus-
tralian and New Caledonian line, which will be despatched
as follows
Arid thenceforward on the 25th of each month.:
Rates of passage-money to Marseilles from £2O to £65,
including table wines and Suez Canal dues on passengers.
RETURN TICKETS issued at the following rates
English interpreters meet through passengers for
London on arrival of steamers at Marseilles, and accom-
pany them to Paris and Calais. N.B. - PassengersMuggage
conveyed free of cost from Marseilles to London. For
freight, passage, and further particulars apply at the
Company’s Office, 15 Macquarie-place.
A. CONIL, Principal Agent.
WILLIAM CARGILL,
Photographic Stock Importer,
26 MARKET STREET,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
THE BULLETIN (Published at Sydney, N.S.W)
The Unique Weekly, Australia’s Nonpareil
Illustrated Newspaper.
The Bulletin, the Premier Australian Literarj
Journal, is the only paper which has a con-
sistent and distinctive Australian National
Policy.
I'he Bulletin favours—
A Republican Form of Government,
Payment of Members.
One Man, one Vote.
State Revenue derived diiectly from the Land.
Complete Secularisation of State Kducation.
Reform of the Criminal Code and Prison
System.
A United Australia and Protection against
the World.
fUK Bulletin denounces—
Religious Interference in Politics,
Foreign Titles.
The Chinese.
Imperial Federation.
The public eye rejects as uninteresting more
than half of what appears in the newspapers of
the day. It is only the other half that is found
in The Bulletin.
The Bulletin is an aggressive Democratic
paper which strives to exclude from its artisti-
cally-condensed columns all matter which is not
of general human interest. The Bulletin was
started seven years ago with no capital but brains,
and has become a vast property, because it pos-
sessed a vitality lacked by the countless news-
paper-ventures in which Australian capitalist*
have unavarlingly spent large fortunes.
The Bulletin’s conductors claim that everj
progressive paper on the Australian continent has
more or less endeavoured to profit by its example
and follow its lines. The result of its powerful
influence and its unprecedented literary and com-
mercial success can at once be seen by comparing
the methods pursued by the Australian daily and
weekly press prior to and immediately after thr
first issue of The Bulletin.
From the date of The Bulletin’s inaugural
publication its success was assured. It had a*
once a dozen more or loss servile imitators, many
of which even took, so far as was possible, its
name. They are now all dead, while The Bul-
letin continues the one phenomenal success in
Australian journalism, the one completely non-
local and distinctly uni\ ersal Austi'alasian news-
paper,
The Bulletin proprietary have, during the
last year, spent some thousands of pounds ir
fitting their buHdings with the latest appliance?
for high-class printing and the production of illus
trations, and they have now issued The Bulletin
in an entirely new- form—printed wRh new- type
of improved legibility on the finest paper, and
adorned with sketches from the hands of the
ablest and bast-paid newspaper artists Australia
has ever seen.
The Bulletin is the only well-established Aus
tralian journal which. Uiroughout its career, has
been consistently Radical. It points with pride
to the fact that for years it stood alone among
secular newspapers in advocating tDo Irish
National Cause, and that it was the only Aus-
tralian journal which denounced the Soudan
Expedition from its inception.
The voice of The Bulletin is the beaeon-firt
of national progress : it is the forcef u! summons to
the crusade against the monopolies in land,
wealth, power, and privilege—the direct cause of
half tho misery which now afflicts British
humanity. Against tho claims of avaricious
clergy who claim to monopolise salvation, agains l
the dark despotism of grasping plutocrats, and
against the exercise of any human authority
which has not been granted by the people over
whom it is exercised, The Bulletin will fearlessly
and ruthlessly contend.
The Bulletin, unlike the ordinary weekly
journal, is not loaded with a weight of mallei
transferred from the columns of a daily paper
issued from the same office. The Bulletin is
not connected with any other paper, and the
matter it contains is all specially prepared by its
own unequalled stall.
The Bulletin, which is the only paper sold
by runners in tho streets of every Australasian
capital, is the most widely-circulated of all papers
published south of the equator, and is the only
Australasian publication which enjoys a popu-
larity unhampered by the political boundaries
that so closely restrict other journals to the
colonies in w-hich they are printed.
The Bulletin’s red cover is equally familiar
tothebushman of the Far North, tho stockman
of Central Australia, the pcarl-shellcr of Torres
Straits, and the digger in the New Zealand
Ranges. A paper which is at once the
most popular city publication and the organ of the
ntelligent bushman must indeed bo broadly based.
The circulation of The Bulletin in Sydney is
unrivalled by that of any other weekly journal,
and more than a hundred copies of it are sold in
Melbourne to ono of any other paper printed out-
side that city. Perhaps the strongest proof of The
Bulletin’s popularity is found in the unchallenge-
fact —easily ascertainable from any postal
official—that, of all journals issued in Australasia,
The Bulletin is the one most frequently re-
wailed from one reader to another.
The Bulletin is the journal which, of all Aus-
tralian journals, is most frequently quoted in Eng-
‘and, America, and the colonies.
The Bulletin is going ahead faster than any
other paper, because its vast mass of original and
specially-written reading matter is the brightest
and best, its illustrations the cleverest and most
artistic, and its policy the boldest and most
straightforward ever submitted to the Australian
Public.
SPECIAL NOTICE.
(payable strictly in advance) Six
bhillmgg and Sixpence per Quarter, or One
°und per annum.
Business communications to be addressed to
William Macleod, Managing Director, to whom
at remittances arc payable. Editorial communi-
cations to be addressed to J. F. Archibald.
Mrs. J. G. Wilson (“Austral”), wife of
the member for Foxton, N.Z., has almost at a
bound gained literary fame. Subjoined is one of
the reasons :
A WINTER DAYBREAK, NEW ZEALAND.
Ei'om the dark gorge where burns the morning star,
I hear the glacier river rattling on,
And sweeping o’er his ice-ploughed shingle bar,
While wood owls shout in sombre unison ;
And the pale Southern dancers glide and go,
And black swans’ airy trumpets wildly, sweetly blow 7 .
The cock crows in the misty winter morn, —
Then must 1 rise and fling the curtain by.
All dark ! but for a strip of fiery sky
Behind the ragged mountains, peaked and torn,
Showiiiy each altar rock and snow-clad horn.
One planet glitters in the twilight cold,
Poised like a golden hawk above the peaks—
And now 7 again the wild nor’-wester speaks,
And bends the cypress shuddering to his fold ;
And every casement, every timber creaks,
While yet the skylarks sing so loud and bold.
The wooded hills are dark ; the white cascade
Shakes with gay laughter all the silent, shadowy glade.
Now' from the shuttered East a silvery bar
Shines through the mist and shows the mild day-star ;
The stonn-wrapped hills start out and fade again,
And rosy vapours skirt the pastoral plain.
The garden paths with hoary rime are wet,
And sweetly breathes the winter violet.
Tile jonquil half unsheaths its ivory cup,
With clouds of gold-eyed daisies waking up.
Pleasant it is to turn and see the fire
Dance on the hearth as he would never tire.
The home-baked loaf, the Indian bean’s perfume,
Kill with their homely 7 cheer the panelled room.
Come, crazy storm ! And thou, w 7 ild glittering hail !
Rave o’er the roof, and wield your icy flail!
Shout in our ears, and take your madcap way 7 !
I laugh at storms ; for Roderick comes to-day !


Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
Wolfe’s Schnapps—for the liver and kidneys.
Ladies' Silver Watches, 85«. r * hms &Ho , King-street
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
Von really ought to drink Wolfe’s Sehnapps
Wolfe’s Schnapps for lowness of spirits.
Wolfe’s Schnapps cheers the mind and body.
Reliable Watch Repairs Dahms & Co., Kinsr-st. Arcade
The popular liquor Wolfe’s Schnapps.
Wolfe’s Schnapps will make you a new man.
John Bridge and Co.’s Weekly Report.
Kangaroo Skins. —Increased supplies forward
for this week’s auctions, the total offered being
11,765. Of this number we sold 4373, or consider-
ably more than a third of the whole supply. Fresh
orders on the market had the means of hardening
values considerably, more particularly notieeable
on medium to largest sizes. We had no difficulty
in topping the market, securing 170 d., the highest
point yet reached this seasonWe also obtained
for several other parcels, 153 d., 143 d., 140 d., and
120 d. Our quotations are: Largest, 108 d. to
170 d. • large, 88d. to lOld.; good medium, 65d. to
84d, • medium, 42d. to 60d. ; small, 28d, to 40d. ;
very small, 3d. to 24d. Wallaroo, 18d. to 60d. ;
red furs, 16d. to 65d.
Opossum Skins.— For Tuesday’s sale we sub-
mitted a catalogue of 4827 skins, bulk of which
were of medium quality. For really good lots
market was unaltered, but a reduction m values
had to be submitted to on the lower qualities. For
superior lots 11s. to 20s. was obtained; good, Bs.
to 10s. 6d.: fair, ss. 6d. to 7s. 6d.; small and in-
ferior, 2s. to 4s. 6d.; rumped, Is. to 3s.
May 27, 1890.
Government Advertisements.
Department of Public Works,
Sydney, May 28, 1890,
ENDBRS FOR PUBLIC WORKS AND
For Conditions, see Government Gazette.
TENDERS for the Works, &0., specified below
will be received at this Department until 11 o’clock
a.m. on the dates mentioned.
WEDNESDAY, JUNE 11.
Bridge over Begn River, at Tarraganda
Erection of Police Barracks, Tingha
Bridge, Cur ban Creek, road Dubbo to Coonamble
Erection of Post and Telegraph Office, Kogarah
Erection of Post and Telegraph Office, Marrick-
ville
Supply, &c., Turret Clock, &c., Court House,
Wollongong
Bridge, Gilargambone Creek, road Dubbo to
Coonamble.
Construction of Tramway, Yass railway station
into Yass .
Construction of Tunnels, &c., Mam Western Out-
fall Sewer.—Contract No. 62 Sydney Sewerage
Additions, &c., Lockup, Burrowa
Erection of Lockup, Brushgrove, Clarence River
(fresh tenders).
Construction of First Section Sea Wall, Ooogee
Bay
'imnamurra River Bridge, Contract No. 2, Erec-
ti on (fresh tenders)
WEDNESDAY, JUNE 25.
Bridge over the Murray River, at Corowa—Con-
tract No. I—Supply of Ironwork. Contract
No. 2—Erection of Iron Bridge
Construction of Strong Room, Lands Office, Armi-
dale (fresh tenders)
Additions Police Buildings, Cudgellico (fresh
tenders)
Repairs, &c., Pest and Telegraph Office, Yass
Erection of Police Barracks, Cassilis
Bridge over Evans’ Plains Creek, at Dunkeld,
Main Western Road
Additions, Hospital for the xiisane, Gladesville
Bridges, Nos. 1 and 2, over Stockton Creek, Road
Laguna to Morrisett
SUPPLIES.
WEDNESDAY, JULY 9.
Works, Nyngan-Cobar
Railway
Plans, &c., to be seen at
the office of Engineer-in
-Chief, Railway Construc-
tion Branch, Phillip-
street, after May 28.
WEDNESDAY, JULY 16.
Works, Culcairn-Corowa Railway (Plans, &e.,
see above.)
WEDNESDAY, JULY 23.
Works, Kiama-Nowra Railway. (Plans, &0., see
above.)
WEDNESDAY, AUGUST 6.
Bridge, Hunter River at Aberdeen —Contract
No. 1 —Manufacture of Ironwork, & c. Con
tract No. 2—Erection of Bridge
WEDNESDAY, AUGUST 20.
Bridge, Darling River at Wentworth —Contract
No. 1— Manufacture, &0., Steel Lift Span on
Iron Piers. Contract No. 2 —Erection of
Lift Span, &c., &c.
WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 15.
Manufacture and Supply of 48-inch Wroujpit-
iron Water Pipes, special castings, &c.—Con-
tract No. 72, Sydney Water Supply. (Dupli-
cation of Pipe Line, Potts Hill to Sydney)
Manufacture and Supply of- 48-inch Cast-iron
Water Pipes, special eastings, &o. —Contract
Nq. 73, Sydney Water Supply, (Duplication
of Pipe Line, Potts Hill to Sydney.)
BRUOE SMITH-
The Baron’s Yarn,
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
It is something of a chestnut now, but there was
a good deal of fire in it and not a little pathos,
when I first heard the hero of the incident relate
it some thirty years ago. In a Collins-street
drawing-room one evening after dinner, the talk
turned on exploration, and in the presence of a
mixed company the irrepressible little man chipped
in with : . , T ju-
“ Dit I efer dell you of the surpnce -vich 1 dit
get in my eggsbloration vich I did mineself make
in Ausdralia ? No ? Is dat so 1 lien 1 vill do so
now mit great bleasure.
“Yen I vas oud on de nord-vest coast mid de
dwo Greckorys, I vos von day go oud nut mine-
self on der bony vich I rite, to gollect specimens
for my flora, und I get some of de mosdt varied y
und bewdiful as you nefer haf peen seen. Und
my bony he vas eadt grass on de pank ot de
greek, und my book vas so mooch full mit specimens
und I vas hoonkry as I dit noding haf to eadt
from mine bregvast, ven mine bony he lan mit him-
self like ein bick shackass—vat you call ‘ vmny eh !
Is it not so? Yes, dank you. Und 1 look out
und I see noding, und I look oud some more und
der bony vas all der dime stand oop mit his eais,
und vinny. Und den 1 see ein aborijine goom
tovorts me along de pank of de greak !
“ Und I dink to mineself, all so qmg as nude
ue, to glimb a dree; but, alas! deio vas no dree
more vick as vat you call vun? —zaplink, dank
you, yes. Den I dink to mineself id is kem goot
to mee to run, for de aborijine he too alzo vill run
more as fasder* Und Ido not have dime to bia\
but I dink of my bewdiful specimens datforeter
vill be losdt to zicnce und humamdy. Und de
aborijine he goom to me more gloseand glose, und
den I zee for mineself dat in de von handt he vave
a pranch of de oigalypdoos, und nut de oder he
seradch his behint mit a vooden comb in doken ot
ahmity. Yen I dit see dis I feel jhoyful and
eggstadic, for lam save. Und I also likeyise
bluck for mineself ein pranch of de oigalyp-
doos vich I also vave in doken of ahmity,
and mit de oder handt I do scradch
mine own behint —dis vay—mit a vooden shtiok .
Und all der dime I get gloshe oop to der bony,
und ven I do der bony cash, I gallop© all dei
vay to der kamp, und Herr Greekory vill say:
‘ Brofessor, some tay in der push you vill pe
mislaidt und knocked onto der headt for dose dam
veedts, und I dink you had moosh bedder in der
kamp shtop, or I togedder lose all my bony und
my bodanist. Is id not so, eh ?
“ Und I to Herr Greckory most regardfully do
say— noding. But my flora which I haf gollegt is
de glory of Ausdralia. Is it not so ? Da ,l k you,
yes.”
The Petrification of Great Men.
The Australasian in a recent issue breaks
out in a burst of unconsidered enthusiasm about a
new and elaborate scheme for preserving: our great
men in an imperishable state, and handing them
down to be gazed at with the bilious optic of faith
by the generations that are to come. It proposes
that they should be petrified by a new and suc-
cessful process lately discovered, which is guaran-
teed to turn the philosopher into stone and pre-
serve the statesman as an everlasting “ minit " on
the subject of his own greatness, instead of being
jerked into a cold stone place as if they were coal,
or dropped into a hole as if the depaited had got
a stamp on the right-hand top corner of him and
was falling into a letter-box ; and having \ rewed
this project in all its bearings it seems to be all
right, barring only one slight obstacle. 1 here
does not appear, so far as we can make out, to be
any provision for petrifying the clothes of the
deceased along with the other parts o. him. it
the whole outfit could be preserved together and
the individual lately gathered into the fold ap-
peared on a pedestal with pants of road-metal
and a quartz coat with an immortal granite
tail, and an old red sandstone hat jammed
firmly down over his imperishable ear of brick, and
boots of rook, and a waistcoat that passeth not
away, no one would be likely to object to his
presence, but these things are not in the bill. And
therefore we rise to submit that the idea of a great
man standing petrified before the public eye in a
condition which it would be superfluous to des-
cribe more fully is not in keeping with the senti-
ment of the age. In fact, the presence of that
individual in the state already indefinitely hinted
at might be regarded as giving undue publicity to
a person who was never intended for publication
but only as a guarantee of good faith. IS o doubt
if he could be preserved under any other circum-
stances than those which we have endeavoured, as
delicately and unobtrusively as possible, to indi-
cate to the public comprehension, he would be a
valuable work of art, but if it be proposed
that the public should view r him in the aspect
aforementioned, we rise to enter an indignant
protest. In fact, The Bulletin holds that
the circumstances hereinbefore set forth are
an insuperable bar to the whole proceeding,
and if the work cannot be carried out under
any other circumstances than the circumstances
hereinbefore set forth we would suggest that the
o-reat man should be allowed —in a manner of
speaking—to slide. In other words, we would
faintly indicate that he might be buried, more or
less as a pleasing alternative to having him
erected on top of a pillar under the disadvantages
which we have endeavoured, as far as possible, to
make plain to the humblest intellect. If the
deceased has got to be petrified under the in-
fluence of drawbacks which couldnt be fully set
forth in a hymn without risk of causing a falhng-
off in the attendance at any church where that
hymn was sung regularly, we can only urge
regretfully that he shouldn’t be . petrified at all,
but that something else should bo done with him
which is less exposed to misconstruction. And in
offering these suggestions we are perfectly
aware that the original ancestors of the
human race are understood to have hung
out under the adverse surroundings indistinctly
depicted above without exciting any public com-
ment but we would point out that in their case
the scheme fell through, owing to the conduct of
In animal which need not be more particularly
described, and which seems to have taken an
undue advantage of the situation. Ihe disastrous
r-onclusion of that bygone experiment leads us to
think that the fact embodied in these remarks
would probably prove deleterious on closer inspec-
tion and that unless arrangements can be made
t. petrify something along with the deceased so as
to avoid the necessity of keeping him before the
liublio under the incubus of those moral sur round -
i,o B more or less exhaustively mentioned herein,
the ’whole project had better be abandoned as
I ein” impracticable and unscnptural, and attended
bv other disadvantages not fit for publication.
It is now understood that Stanley dragged
Emin Pasha back to civilisation against his will,
and then bantered him into breaking through his
rule of total abstinence whereby the unfortunate
German broke through a window and nearly died
right away. Emin, before returning to the part
whence he was forcibly “ rescued,” has scattered
handbills among the Arabs at Zanzibar and else-
where, denying any connection with “the English-
men.” While Emin is about it he also
deny any connection with the Prince of Wales,
the Lord Mayor, or other puffy lion-hunters, who
worship Stanley for having made the name of
Englishman hated throughout the dark Continent.
A diver lately in Melbourne Hospital, and
attended by Dr. Springthorpe, was a remarkable
man. He had been down under sea to a wreck m
the icy Straits of Magellan, and also in the warm
tropical water of the Hooghly, at Calcutta. The
greatest depth he had been, with his rope ladder,
to the ocean floor, was 140 feet, in the green
gardens of Ocean, from whence the marine plant
struggles up to the surface, and covers square
miles. He went down to the wreck of the immi-
grant ship Northfleet, in the British Channel (the
theme of Nathan Timer's beautiful poem, “God
Knows”), the ship having been run down. There
were 400 corpses. The diver had to walk about
among them, glaring through his goggles, drag
them out of the debris, and waft them up to the
surface.
The Arcbishop of Canterbury solemnly
blessed the launching of an English ironclad :
Lord, we thank Thee for being privileged to dedicate
this instrument of murder to the God of battles. Thou
wilt observe that there is a beak, or spur, in front, the
object being to run down another ship, with perhaps 500
souls on board, and send t hem to Hell without a moment’s
warning, even as Thy servant Gordon did blow up a
hundred Arabs at Khartoum with his mine, and sent them
to their own place. Thou art always on our side, never
on anybody else’s, when they fight against us, Thy chosen
people. Lord, if any patriot should want to a
nation, and this Thy chosen vessel is sent to prevent it,
may she stand off at a safe distance, and .send , her shots
crashing through the human flesh andljones. And, Lord,
may only common sailors ho killed anti wounded, not any
of the sons of the nobility and clergy, as Thou didst
preserve Gonnaiight in the hailstormmf death at Tel-el-
Kebu,
SQUATTER (to loafer who has outstaged his welcome): “ YOUR HORES ARE THERE
IN THE PADDOCK, MR. SAURIAN, IN CASE YOU WANT THEM
TO-DAY.”
LOAFER (coolly): “ARE THEY? BY JOVE! I’LL JUST GO AND LET THEM
OUT. THEY’LL NEVER GET FAT IN THERE!”
J T. Booth, of Brisbane, took out in the
,\ M.P. Society in 1833 a life-policy for £3OO, and
paid his premium up to December, 1886,, but
thereafter, up to the date of his sudden death the
other day, neglected to keep on payment. At
first sight the policy seemed hopelessly lapsed, but
when his penniless widow wrote to the society the
resident-secretary replied that owing to the opera-
tion of the society’s non-forfeiture regulations the
policy was in full force. The arrears, consisting
of 14 quarterly premiums and interest, amounted
to 10s 4d.. while the surrender value of policy
S £of dta m u.. M. n «in b,
therefore, that had deceased lived two months
longer without paying a premium, the arrears
would have exceeded the surrender value, and the
policy would have irretrievably lapsed. The sum
assured and bonuses, without including the bonus
for 1889, amount to £339 14s. Deducting the
arrears, £35 10s. 4d., the sum of £304 3s. Id. is
payable to the widow.
The other day at Cincinnati (U.S.), a
badgered witness began to feel tired and success-
fully aimed an inkstand at the lawyer, where-
upon the cross-examination ended on account
of a broken jaw, and the proceedings closed
for repairs. Subscriptions for a testimonial to
that witne-s are respectfully invited by Ihk
BuiLKTIN which trusts that his example will
encourage the local testifier to aim at higher
things. °The average witness in this country is a
woefu'ly bad shot, and in most oases he couldn t
hit a mountain with a brick ; but he will probably
improve with constant practice, until he can
cripple even the smallest solicitor at 100 yard B
and bring down a conveyancer at any reasonable
And even if he misses the solicitor he is
aiming at, there is always a chance that he may
bring down some other legal luminary who may
happen to be passing, or he may spoil a barrister
or an articled clerk, or cause a justice of the peace
to find his framework unexpectedly stove in, and
in any of these cases he can refresh himself with
the reflection that’he has done his in the
station in which Providence thought fit tcnTHoe
him.
When the Maryborough (Vic.) rush broke
out Julius Vogel was running a druggist s shop,
or rather, tent, on Ballarat. As m those days
Julius was a tolerably-sized rolling-stone, he.was
for going off to the diggings at once,
for some days find a purchaser for his pills, black
draughts and sticking-plaster. Uitimately he
went to an Opposition chemist—o. B. Uienie
who, as secretary to the mammoth Wimmera
United Water Trust, now bosses half the Wim
mera district—and offered the whole concern at a
valuation, denies accepted the proposition, and
proceeded to investigate the stock. Hefoimd
such a heterogeneous collection of co 1 p •
unknown to the pharmacopoeia that i
said at last: “Wherever did you, get all
this stuff, Vogel?” “Bought it, laconi-
cally replied the future I remiev. no
chemist,'' went on denies, with an on
the word, “would have purchased hisiubbis.
“Just so," said Vogel; “I don't think any
chemist would. But then nobody but a d <*
fool would ever take me for a chemist. ; »
odd years subsequently, denies happened to be m
Melbourne on municipal business bent, at atm
when Vogel (then Sir Julius) took the aria
village nr rout< for the st*pmother-land. Sam
called on Vogel at Menzies’, and after a chat about
old times, asked the great man if he Recollect _
the above little-incident. vbigcl s memory was
quite fresh about it, and he wound up* hußemi-
niscences by the inquiry ; the way, den m
did the death-rate dimmish much when 1 k ft tin
camp?
Editor Bulletin . Sir, In a recent column
of the S.M. Tlkuauj’s “ European Corresponcl-
once” I notice a icview of a work I published in
Melbourne some years ago) to which 1 ooritribut
a story—by Mens, de k lonant. In his notice this
critic, of whom the Herald’s correspondent say s
“ To be keenly appreciated and warmly praised oy
an eminent trench-speaking critic is no sn.all
honour for our Australian novelists and poets
mentions, after Marcus Clarke, five contribute .
viz! Haddon Chambers, Mrs. Campbell-Praed
Patchett Martin, Sladen, R. 1 hatcher, Carnet
Waldi, and “Tasma,” placing my name betoic
that of my old friend one of the most graceful
and powerful writers who ever wielded a pen—
Garnet Walch. This is an honour of which any
man might be proud, and which I keenly appreciate,
erroneous as it may be in order of precedence ; but
what about a country where patrons (?) of literature
let men worthy such consideration and approbation
starve in their streets? Next week Igo up country
to drive a ’bus to a railway-station and catch fish
for that means of living which is denied Bohe-
mians in Australia. And, be it remembered, that,
in spite of all that has been said, I have been
guilty of no one deliberate, dishonest, or disre-
putable act, but simply afflicted through an acci-
dent that, if occasioned by a private company,
would have entitled me to ample means of seek-
ing recovery to health and sight. I trust to have
a bit better luck in my new vocation, in which
case I promise to send you down a bit of fish, and
should you be honouring our township with a visit,
to dump the editorial carpet-sack'down at the
hotel-door free of charge.—l am, sir, yours very
truly, “ Dick” Thatcher. Liverpool, N.S.W.
It is a common saying in Melbourne that
the glory of Railway Speight has departed since
Duncan Gillies, cancelling his unexpected contract
with the Government, raised the Commissioner’s
salary by a thousand a year. Who so fiercely
assailed as Speight in the early days of his en-
gagement, when the new broom was sweeping
dean, and rumours of railway reforms were heard
in the land? Then the repeated political attacks
upon his management were regarded as so many
certificates of Speight’s merit, and when he got
upon his legs at engine-driver dinners and such
like functions, to protest that the Victorian rail-
ways ought to be run on purely commercial lines,
and not in theprivate interests of howling senators,
every honest man in the colony cried “ Amen ! ”
People travelled with some sense of safety in those
comparatively wholesome times, and thanked
Heaven that the relations between Speight, the
Commissioner, and Gillies, the Minister of Rail-
ways, were “ strained.” Little by little the anti-
pathy between Speight and the old snob-jobbers,
whose game he had disturbed, faded into a kind
of brotherly love. The extra thousand-a-yeai
arrangement followed, Gillies and Speight became
Damon and Pythias over again, and the whole
Legislative Assembly has found out that the now
easy-going Chief Commissioner is a jolly good
fellow. May it last! May the recent succession
of petty railway muddles (producing nothing more
serious than the death of a Chow) not culminate
in another hideous smash-up, the indirect result
of Speight’s extra thousand and awfully jolly good
fellowship.
According to the Colonies and India
there is in Australia “a healthy tone of public
opinion. All Separatist utterists are generally
condemned ! ”
Sydney P.O. Hag fhow at half-mast for
some time on Queen’s Birthday. Some folks were
actually sanguine enough to imagine that Her
Gracious had pegged out on her natal day.
Many in and out of tho city will-be pleased to
know that C'RKE mas and Co., photographers in
the Sydney Arcade, have reduced their charges
for! photographs. Cabinets now 15s. per dozen.
BEERY
Idie ruling nations of the world drink beer- the
tough, stubborn Briton drinks ale and beer—the
strong, hardy tier man drinks beer, and the
American is beginning to drink more beer than
anything else. The Australian drinks fet. Bonis
Lager Beer, because there is no drink in the would
so conducive to social intercourse. It gently
moves the blood to accelerated action and arouses
the generous sentiments that cluster around the
human heart.


TL
ABSOLUTELY
PURE,
therefore the best.
I
w*.am
rr (
M mm
Wv.,
-
m, i
( t
; fP
1
% ■
rC J
Qr
o
m
u
CD
o
m o
o
sh
iil
s-.-i/ »
’i
Ss^'"
A Church Episode.
(FOR THE BULLETIN. )
fhe holy calm of a little Victorian church
got badly shaken up the other Sunday—so badly
that it is doubtful if that solemn Christian oasis
will ever be quite the place it was any more. The
catastrophe was all owing to the revolutionary
conduct of a serene-looking old gentleman with a
bald head, and it took the audience by surprise,
for the offender had sat all through the service as
peacefully as an apple on the end of a fork, and
nobody even dreamt that he was loaded and liable
to go off suddenly. The proceedings began as
usual with the customary hymn, and then followed
the prayer in which the clergyman stated that his
congregation were all miserable, grovelling worms,
and threw other abusive expressions at them, and
alluded to them as dust and ashes. If he had
called on any one of them singly, and told him
that he was a worm, he would probably have been
assaulted, and thrown down the stairs, but on
Sunday a clergyman is privileged to employ strong
hxnguage, and even when he included the ladies of
the flock and stated that they were no good he
failed to arouse any unwonted excitement.
After this there came the other hymn, and
then the pastor read a chapter in which
he set forth that the righteous man is
merciful to his beast, and at the same time
he brought his hand down heavily on a small, in-
offensive green bug that came along and stood on
top of his text, and the green bug doubled up
with a hollow sound and broke into six pieces,
and his remains were thrown over into the front
pew. By-and-bye the reverend gentleman ar-
rived at his sermon, and still nothing happened.
He got hold of his text, and stunned it with his
fist to make sure that it wouldn’t get away, and
read the corpse of the deceased verse out to the
audience in an aggressive way which distinctly
implied that he would like to see anybody tread
on the tail of that statement anyhow, and then he
turned his subject loose in the great shifting
desert of foundered syntax and decomposed in-
spiration, and started out in pursuit. It was, an
exciting chase. Sometimes the reverend parson
would seem as if he was catching up to his topic,
but then it would put on a fresh spurt and get
ahead of him, and he would grow more frenzied,
and paw around with renewed violence, and
gallop wildly after it amid a cataract of minor
prophets, and a cyclone of ancient Israelites, and
a shrieking wilderness of Ammonites and
Moabites and Hittites, and an avalanche of
Jebusites and Eirgashites, and as he tore alon 0,
with a wilder and wilder frenzy in his eye and a
louder and louder shriek in his voice, and left
behind him a larger and broader and more com-
prehensive trail of Pharisees and Sadducees, and
kicked up a higher and denser cloud of priests and
Levites and dust and fragments of old patriarch,
and banged the desk with renewed virulence and
more concentrated ferocity, the admiring con-
gregation felt that there was no subject too large
for this shepherd to tackle. By-and-bye the holy
man came on a fresh text that was sitting peace-
fully in a cool spot with its long ears projecting
above it, and casting their refreshing shade over a
whole chapter of blazing denunciation, and he
rushed at that text, and got it down and knocked
it aU out of shape, and feeling better after this
exercise he started off on side excursions after
sundry old Egyptians and Samaritans who didn’t
know he was coming, and busted them up every
one. He hunted up a false prophet who was out on
an ass in the middle of a chapter near the front
e » i Scripture, and he started that prophet
on at such a rate that the audience could hear him
whizz, and finally, when he had worked himself
into an awful state of perspiration, he fell sud-
denly from the summit of a lofty moral sentiment
and came down in a heap, remarking faintly that
a collection would be taken up to cover incidental
expenses. Then he picked himself up and blew
the dust out of his hair, and gave out a hymn—a
calm, peaceful, soft-footed little hymn that
sounded cool and refreshing after the burning
execration of the sermon; but just as he got to the
second verse an old, bald, patriarchal person stood
up and asked him if he considered that he lived
up to the sentiments contained in that hymn.
1 here was a sudden and awful pause, and
n j clergyman gave a gasp as if some-
,W had • handed him a venomous rep-
tile in a paper bag. Then the persuasive brother
inquired thoughtfully if the pastor didn't
regard himself and that hymn as two incompatible
elements, and if the very sight of that hymn
didn t make him feel a longing to go out and bury
himself and never be heard of any more, and the
feyman felt himself to make sure he was awake.
While he was feeling himself the lost sheep further
demanded if he wasn’t ashamed to propound 35
square feet of bloodshed, and racket, and carnage,
and insurrection, and call it a sermon, and asked
it he was a peaceful minister, or a general bom-
bardment, or a fire in a lunatic asylum, or a mad
elephant charging a boiler-factory, or- But
here somebody grasped the persuasive individual
and rushed him out into the street, and the clergy-
man rose up choking with indignation and with
his hair standing on end, and started to read the
third verse which set forth that his peace passed
all understanding.
Bookmaker Josephs favours Bendigo Ad-
vertiser with his European impressions. There
!s a sort of trade-mark of two kinds on them—
the Solomon and the Joe Thompson Solomon.
Some Australian millionaires have been
seized by the fancy of sticking cockades on the
hats of their coachees and phluiikies. Now strict
etiquette prescribes, does it not, that cockades are
only to be worn by the servants of military officers’
You may as well be “ Johnnock ” if you’re Tory.
Mrs. Call, burnt to death, wife of Fred.
Call, the esteemed Melbourne magistrate, was a
very superior woman, indeed, with high literary
acquirements. Poor Call, a real tender-hearted
man, is very much cut up. Sir William Stawell
once nearly lost his life through reading in bed at
Mac’s Hotel, Geelong. But he would persist in
the pernicious habit, and it didn’t kill him—we
believe—although his death, at Naples, was verv
mysterious.
A Melbourne reporter, who heard a cer-
tain well-advertised Q.C. address the jury in a
recent big will case, thus summarised the speech
in the first person : ‘‘ I did not always earn my
living as a barrister. lat one time travelled and
C visited several ports. At every place I went to
I visited bars and / always found a ‘ grass widow'
or a singing barmaid. lam older than I look. I
am an expert cross-examiner and I give you a
lesson in expert cross-examination as I practise it.
After this able speech from me you must give a
verdict for my client.”
Thady.
Thadeus O’Kane, editor of the Northern
Miner, Charters Towers (Q.), is dead.
Thady dead ?
Blame my old eyes !
I feel nowise—
Game, gruff, old Ted I
Old Teddy Kane!
He was a plum,
Cantank’rous, ruin,
Old thingeyum !
He’s past all pain.
To think he’s now
Dor ever bunked !
Made his last bow—
Exit —defunct!
A knotty plank;
A cross-grained crank.
. He’d say his say
Or bust!
And now he’s clay
And dust.
Of late he took
To overlook—
And quite forsook—
The glass !
His frighted soul
Eschewed the bowl—
The generous bowl—
He swore.
It bore
A Fury’s daughter !
So —took to water;
And then to bed.
And now—he’s dead !
“ So mote it be !”
Decried
As “ shady,”
He turned t.t.
And died.
Poor Thady !
THE DIPSOMANIAC.
A Don Juanesque gentleman, of Southern
California, formed a liaison with the wife of one
P. C. M‘Conkey, and was therefore speedily shot
by the latter. On Gresham’s body was found the
following letter, addressed to him by his para-
mour, who had apparently been informed that
other ladies besides herself shared the affections of
the versatile Gresham :
It is with cheeks of flame and a great load upon my
heart that I begin this letter. , . . Oh, Mr. Gresham
the knowledge has come to me that you are not moral!
and the blow nearly kills me. You, whom I thought so
pure, so truly noble ! ... Is it possible that there is
no such thing as a virtuous man ? I begin to think so.
My face burns with shame and indignation when I think
of you being in the society of those wretched beings, who
call themselves women, then come to me with smiles for
the kisses that you know come from a pure and lovirw
heart. . , . You ought to have had enough respect
for me to ha\e kept you from those evils. Forgive me if
I speak plainly, but it seems necessary to do so under the
circumstances. I could not tell you these things face to
. face. My womanly feeling would not permit it. It seems
different to tell you on paper. . . . The world is too
one-sided. Men expect the love of pure women, and yet
pollute themselves to the greatest depths of evil. I sin-
cerely hope and pray that what I have heard is not true.
The morality of this is altogether so beautiful that
it is a pity to learn that it emanated from an
adultress.
Notice to Artistic and Literary Contributors
Strictly Original matter contributed to Thh Bulletin
will be paid for. The Editor will be glad to receive and
consider contributions as under :—
1, Original humorous or political matter, illustrated or
otherwise. (Drawings must be made in clean lines
of Indian ink on whitepaper or Ilristol-board.)
S. Unpublished anecdotes of living celebrities, or people
who ought to be celebrated.
S. Humorous poems (from eight to forty-eight lines pre-
ferred).
U. Serious ■poems, of similar or greater length, especially
those suitable for pictorial illustration.
0. Short Australian or other stories, up to, say, 3000
words. About half that length, or even less, will
be preferred.
All Contributions must he Written Legibly, on One
Side Only of the 'paper , and folded, not rolled. The
name and address of the uniter must appear, in all
cases, on the MS. itself, and not merely on ait accompany-
ing letter or paper. The Proprietors do not hold them-
selves responsible for Dejected Contributions; but, if
accompanied by a stamped and addressed envelope or
wrapper, every effort will be made to return them.
The Editor does not undertake to enter into any
correspondence respecting rejected Manuscripts.
Mr. Tipping, of Victorian Hansard, the
popular president of the Victorian Exporters’
Association, gave a banquet to the members of the
Association at the Cathedral Hotel the otker Satur-
day night. It was then stated that every reporter
iu Melbourne except two belonged to the Associa-
tion. C. George and M‘Gregor, of the Akous,
who are members of the Royal Institute of
Journalists in England, reported the first half-
yearly meeting of the Association which followed
the dinner for the Journalist, the organ of the
London Institute.
We quote iu all its simple horror the fol-
lowing complete patriotic poem from the Aus-
tralian Courier :
Thy flag, Australia, yet shall wave
With pride o’er land and see :
That flag, unfurled, shall to the world
A sign of triumph be.
Though nations may with envy scorn
The progress of thy fame,
Ten thousand voices loud will shout
The fair Australia’s name.
According to the Burwood singer, history is to re-
peat itself with slight alterations. But on the
good old eye-for-an-eye principle, we will drop
into poetry :
Do you think, sorry bard, the Ten Thousand
Your eyes in the future behold
Will wave the hats pulled from their brows, and
Go back on their brethren of old ?
Do you think that Australians are asses
Or that, in the brave years to be,
They will set the great cry of “ Thalassis ”
To such pretty words as “ The See ? ’
If you do, then our views are conflicting.
Dear brother —just lend us your ear
While wc take a brief spell at predicting—
The day seems to us to be near
When Australia’s Republican bunting
Shall float o’er a land wide and free
Where you couldn’t find in a year’s hunting
E’en the bleaching remains of a See.


•„ 5
i
to
\
m
y
M
%
;.v;r
-AjR
s
o
Doctor Lance.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
In the golden days of Forest Creek of happy
memory, when “ Fanny Finch ” flourished, when
the “ traps ” wore blue shirts, and barons dug, and
countless more strange anomalies had their day
and passed into oblivion, there stood on Old Post-
office 11 ill a long, low slab building, with a canvas
roof and no windows the abode of I )octor Lance*.
The hut—for it was nothing more —faced the
street, which was likewise the highway to “the
/f/ndigo,” as an Irish friend hath it. A few
hundred yards away was the famous Fanny
Finch’s boarding-house, the only place of
entertainment on the Creek —and the head
centre and general resort of everybody. Right
in the track Of the crowds of new arrivals
who daily passed along, it proved a ready means
of intercepting friends and acquaintances, and
getting the latest news from Melbourne, desiderata
of some moment in those wild days of bottomless
roads and unspanned streams, when the Argus
was sometimes a month on the road, notwith-
standing Howard’s Yankee push and relays of
stout pack-horses.
Amongst the occasional visitors to the boarding-
house was Doctor Lance, a pale-faced man with
long black hair and a faraway look in his eyes»
and here I met him and contracted to become his
cleric, cook, and general factotum, for a small
weekly consideration; being at that happy age
which is proof against the gold-fever.
Accordingly, one fine morning I was duly in-
stalled, and after giving me a few general instruc-
tions in the event of callers, and so on, the doctor
mounted his steed and went off on his rounds, and
I was at liberty to inspect my new surroundings.
The hut was about 20 feet long and built of
rough undressed slabs, lined with calico, and
though windowless, the roof being of canvas,
there was light enough for all practical purposes.
A partition of slabs reaching to the wall-plate
divided the kitchen from the surgery. Against
this partition which had no lining—in the sur-
gery-stood the doctor’s bed ; against it —in the
kitchen—was a stretcher for me. It will thus be
apparent that between the two beds there were
only the rough slabs, and the occupants could see
into either apartment with ease. A few shelves
containing bottles of drugs and packets of medi-
cines, a couple of common deal-tables, some three-
legged stools, and a cask of port-wine with a brass
tap, comprised the furniture of this primitive
“ medical hall.”
Late in the evening the doctor returned, bring-
ing with him a pair of new blankets for me. After
supper he took from his pocket a pair of small
pistols, which he cleaned and loaded carefully,
observing the while that it was necessary to be
armed and prepared for a visit from some of the
numerous bushrangers infesting tire field ; and.
pointing to a little terrier which followed him
everywhere, enjoined me to be sure to call him if
I should hear “ Punch ” bark, as he never did so
unless there was someone about. Then he drew
from the cask a large jug of wine, and taking it
and the light round to the surgery, intimated
that I might go to bed.
Outside there was a continual firing of pistols
and guns, a ceaseless barking of dogs, the sounds
of musical instruments ; and, from the boarding-
house, an occasional shout, or the refrain of a
song from the merry-makers. Near by a man was
playing “ Auld Robin Gray, ’’ and as I lay
wrapped in my new blankets listening to the
noises of the night, and looking through the slabs
at the doctor drinking, his wine, the plaintive
strains of the violin sent me off into a sound sleep.
Suddenly I awakened with a start. How
long I had slept I know not, but the light was
still burning in the surgery, whence there came a
strange rasping sound, accompanied by a gurgling
and choking. I satT up and looked through the
partition. Seated on a stool, in his nightshirt,
was the doctor, with Punch, head downwards,
firmly pressed between his knees, deliberately
sawing-off one of his hind legs ! The doctor s face
Was towards me, and as 1 sat, transfixed with
horror, watching him by the dim light of the
candle absorbed in his purposeless cruelty, the
truth flashed upon me—the man was mad !
In common, I suppose, with most people, I had
a mortal dread of insanity in any form, so that
shut up as I was with an armed maniac in the
dead of night, and no visible means of escape, my
feelings may be readily imagined.
While I continued to gaze the amputated leg-
fell on the ground, and, despite the frantic efforts
of the poor animal to escape from his torturer’s
grasp, the doctor had just begun to operate upon
the other, when an irrepressible exclamation burst
from my lips. Startled by the nearness of the un-
expected voice, he jumped to his feet, dropping
saw and dog and overturning the light. Stepping
up on his bed he looked over the partition.
I raised my eyes. There was just sufficient
starlight filtering through the roof to reveal the
ghastly white face of the madman framed in the
darkness above me.
“In God’s name,” he demanded, “who are
you?’
Getting no reply—for I was dumb with fear—
he came round to my bedside and reiterated his
question. He had entirely forgotten me ! In
vain I assured him that I was the boy he had
engaged in the morning, and reminded him of the
new blankets. It was all to no purpose, his mind
seemed occupied with but one idea amputation.
“ My good woman,” said he, “ come into the
surgery i i ll take it off at the knee.
Meantime I was mechanically putting on my
socks and boots, quite oblivious in my terror of
trousers.
“Come,” he repeated, taking my hand and lead-
ing me round, “ there is no time to be lost.” He
pushed me ou to his bed, and going - to the shelves
began feeling about for something or other.
Unable to find the object of his search which was
probably the saw—he came back to me and laying
his hand on my shoulder whispered—“ Wait, 111
fetch the axe —111 chop them both off !”
Horrible as the suggestion was, it offered a
chance of escape which gladdened my heart —for I
knew that the axe was outside at the wood-heap.
He unbarred the door and went out. I followed
him, and passing him like a shot ran for my life
to the boarding-house. The door was ajar, and
rushing inside despite my nakedness 1 sank into
a seat overcome with excitement. About a dozen
men were sitting at the table drinking and play-
ing cards, and I had just explained the cause of
my abrupt appearance on the scene in such a
plight when a sudden movement amongst them
made me look round. W ithin the doorway stood
Doctor Lance in his night-dress with arms out-
stretched and a cocked pistol in either hand. I
ran into a bedroom and shut the door just as the
doctor discharged both pistols right amongst the
men.
For a moment there was stillness, then a hurried
trampling of feet, crashing of furniture, and a
great clamour of voices; and high above all the
din the fearful shrieks and yells of the madman
rang out into the night, summoning to the spot
from far and near crowds of people eager to learn
the meaning of the terrible cries. Presently they
ceased, and I ventured to look out from my hiding-
place. The doctor was stretched on the floor un-
conscious, bound hand and foot, his face covered
with blood and foam. The large room was full of
men all talking at once ; and by-and-bye a
cart was brought round to the door with a bed
in it, and the Doctor was lifted in and driven away
to the camp.
And, thank goodness, that was the last I saw of
Doctor Lance.
It transpired that he was subject to periodic
attacks of insanity aggravated by his excessive
consumption of wine. Fortunately, no one had
been injured, and in those stirring times the affair
was but the passing topic of the hour. But upon
me its effects were anything but passing. lor
months after I would frequently start up in my
sleep acting over again the frightful scene. And
to this day—on the principle of the ‘ association
of ideas whenever I hear “ Auld Robin Gray”
my thoughts revert to Forest Creek and the mad
doctor.
J. LYALL.
During the last 12 years £60,000 has been
donated ”o the Sydney University beside the
Ohallis bequests.
In reply to the argument that Pigott was
once a Parnellite, Hr. Wallace, a Scotch ~
points out that Judas was once an Apostle.
There is a Melbourne publican named
Beer, and there used to be one named Lusher.
Another of the trade near Sydney is named
Barrel.
On the Pier.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
’Twas on the pier-at Williamstown
t stood to see the ship depart,
Mere idle fancies took me down,
Nor had I reason them to thwart,
A wish to study, quiz, or scoff,
Who went aboard—who saw them off.
It was a scene of busy life,
As ships and shipping e’er provide,
A world of not unpleasing strife,
Of fun and pathos side by side,
A scene of bustle, noise and pain,
For friends depart and friends remain.
Familiar scene this seemed to me,
Old times were present while the mind,
In fancy, wandered, leaving me,
Yet leaving those long left behind.
Such memories of a distant past
Come ever first and linger last.
‘■Good-bye, old man ! a hearty grip
Of horny hands, two gray old chums ;
“ I’m round, you bet, with this old ship,
Look out, old pard, when back she comes.’
Those tones but told what I could tell—
Their light good-bye but meant farewell.
Another group—a groom and bride,
A widowed mother, silver-haired,
Who clasped her darling to her side
The warning’ note that never spared,
Shrill whistles’ screams the echoes wake,
For ships, must sail tho’ hearts must break.
That muffled figure—quick his pace,
The friendly tap ere reached the deck,
A turn —a terror-stricken face,
A scuffle and the “ darbies ” click,
And ’mid the final din and stir,
That ominous “ You’re wanted, sir.”
“You’re wanted”—few who question why,
Each on his own affairs intent
(Save idle loungers such as I),
Each eye upon the steamer bent,
A cloud of waving signals and
A parting cheer and now the band.
This scene recalls that long ago,
It seems indeed but yesterday
I landed—well, that air I know,
For “ Auld Lang Sync’s” the tune they play,
The old refrain that speaks good-bye,
Oft weights the heart and dims the eye.
How stern, majestic doth she seem,
Of tears and partings nought she'll reck.
She’s off—I stand as in a dream.
Ah ! that I stood upon her deck,
Nor strange this yearning wish to roam*-
The Ocean Queen is bound for—Home.
WILLIAM E. IMESON.
London.


Great Medical Reform!
Consult (FREE) HERR RASSMUSSEN, the Celebrated Danish Herbalist,
Expert Specialist in all Private Complaints, Barrenness and Nervous Diseases*
DENMARK
x^e/tyVv^
%
u
%
\
%
%
\
\4.
I
'I
%
%>
t
ţ
0
V
<110
ť
#
ŧ
✓
J s '
a/
T
(0
t
v
Vitality
Restores''
A Guaranteed Cure
for
Nervous Debility and
Lost Vitality.
225. 6d. per Course.
Smaller Box ss. 6d.
Oatxly Herbalist in Australia
has received Gold Medal” for Great Cures Performed, and is Honourably Mentioned in the “Centennial History of New South Wales
tor Great Herbal Discoveries; and who can prove that he has CURED OYER 20,000 PATIENTS.
Sole Proprietor and Discoverer of the Celebrated
dektmark vitality pills, Registered
Which have been the means of Curing so many Thousands of Sufferers from Nervous Debility, Lost Vitality, Errors, Weakness, Despondency,
Impure Blood. 225. 6d. per Course ; Smaller Box, ss. Gd.
G^entiine
sitisxi o ixials.
To HERR RASSMUSSEN.-Dear Sir -This is to tw ™
failed - JOHN REYNOLDS ri°° d d , is f se > after many doctors had
tailed. —JOHN REYNOLDS, Chappel-street, Leichhardt, Sydney.
To HERR RASSMUSSEN, the celebrated Danish Herbalist—Dear
To HERR RASSMUSSEN, Specialist in Nervous Diseases. Dear
Sir, I hereby thank you for the great cure you performed on me for
a very complicated nervous affection, and I shall always recoZmnd
you to sufferers from Nervous Debility.—PHlLLlP STEAD 54 Parr-i
matta-road, Annandale, Sydney. nmr dxlau, wraua-
To HERR RASSMUSSEN, Danish Herbalist.—Dear Sir and Bene-
in^the'treatment nL eat Pleasure to testify to your wonderful skill
4 f Dlsease - Y °u cured me of a terrible complaint
' S f a n e ir 6 Up ’ a " d althou « h !t is four years since lam
1 shall recommend you to all.—Yours, gratefully A
AM,. I EN, Great Western Coffee Palace, Castlereagh-street, Sydney!
Q . J° RASSMUSSEN, Specialist in Nervous Diseases.—Dear
Sir, I hereby certify that I have been under your skilful treatment
for a very obstinate case of nervous debility, and that you cured me
Junctiorf, N?S W°* y ° Ur Vltality Pllls --R- M‘NEILL, Hornsby
»
Opiniozis of the Press.
It is a well-known fact that HERR RASSMUSSEN, the Celebrated
Danish Herbalist, has performed many great cures during the past few
years, as his numerous testimonials will prove.—Sydney Bulletin.
HERR RASSMUSSEN.—We have been shown some excellent Testi-
monials of the great cures performed by Herr Rassmussen, the cele-
brated Danish Herbalist.— Australian Star.
HERR RASSMUSSEN has now been established in the colonies
for 10 years.— Sunday Times, April 28, 1888.
HERR RASSMUSSEN has become a celebrity in the curing of all
diseases of the nervous system. His name has become a wonder
throughout the Southern Hemisphere. He was presented with a Gold
Medal for some of his miraculous cures.— Balmain Leader, May 12,1888.
HERR RASSMUSSEN.—The remarkable cures which he has effected
are pretty generally known.— Balmain Observer, April 28, 1888.
We are perpetually receiving letters from HERR RASSMUSSEN’S
cured patients requesting us to make known to the public the wonder-
ful medical skill this remarkable man possesses, and he has just been
presented with a Gold Medal from several of his cured patients.
—Sydney Weekly News, May 26, 1887.
Kerr Rassmussen’s 3E3Cert>a,l Remedies, (REGISTERED.)
DENMARK FKMauEUIIE ST CJH^^ Uaran *' ee< * to cure Nervous Debility, Lost Vitality, Errors of Youth and Despondency. Price, 225. 6d. per full course ; small box, ss. 6d.
Price, 22 s. 6d. per course ;si rial/ J jbox~ss ' 't!™" teed t 0 CUI6 all com P laints peculiar to Females, Irregularities, and eradicates complaints which cause barrenness.
CL RE PILLS. Guaranteed to Cure all diseases of the blood, discharges, sores, and strictures. Price, 225. 6d. per course ; small box, ss. 6d.
COMBDXTATIOM AMD ADVICE FREE.
All the above remedies are made of PURE HERBS, and are forwarded unobserved
free, on receipt of 4d stamped addressed envelope. Consultation personally or by post, free.
A valuable treatise on Nervous Debility, Private Complaints, and Barrenness, sent
Patients are examined with the aid of the Microscope.
Address: - Herr RASSMIJSSEN tlie Danish Herbalist,
Corner Gordon-street & Parls-roaci, Paddington, Sydney.
TRAMS lake Paddington Tram to Paddington Tram Waiting-room.
KVM
$
DENMARK
mivtM
&
\
%h
%
%
\t
A
V
%
t
'o
V
I
r
!
I
!
m
VlCfiß
$
#
ţ
0h
#
#
«s*.
warn
iTALITY
Restores'
A Guaranteed Cure
for
.Nervous Debility and
Lost Vitality.
225. 6d. per Course.
Smaller Box ss. 6d.
BALDWIN DRY AIK, EEFEiaBEATOE.
Beware of the many so-called Dry Air 'Refrigerators advertised by unscrupulous Manufacturers and Dealers, intending
to deceive the public and trade upon our reputation. This is the original and celebrated Dry Air Refrigerator, made
famous by its successful competition at the leading Exhibitions in the United States for the past Six Years, known as
the Baldwin Dry Air Refrigerator.
WHITE MOUNTAIN FREEZERS, ICE MILK CANS, MIXERS,
LEMONT SQUEEZERS, &c., &C.
McLean Eros. Sz Elg-g', Ltd
512 GEOEGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Messrs. MAUDE & CO.,
Florists and Nurserymen,
(Of the Royal Exotic Nursery, Pedkhurst,)
Have just Opened their
Kew Premises at HI King Street, Sydney,
And are prepared to receive orders for CHOICE
PLANTS, FERNS and CUT FLOWERS, and to
undertake all kinds of
Floral Decorations at Reasonable Prices
CONS ULT the Eminent
I A IP" O Specialist,
LMUILO, Dr. SPEER, 31 York-st.,
Sydney.
PILLS (Guaranteed), 55., post free.
fflO CAPITALISTS, SPECUL ATOR|3,
and Others.
Vacant Lands near Sydney
AVAILABLE UNDER THE
Non-Residential Clauses of the Land Act.
For particulars. and terms apply to
“ INVESTIGATOR,”
Box 809, G.P.0., Sydney.
& ~
*
from
every flower thai
breathes a fragrance
SWEET SCENTS
LOXOTIS OPOPONAX
\ FRANGIPANNI PSIDIUM,,
May be obtained
Of any Chemist or
Perfumer.
? V V°
'Onrf o+vAe" ,
Beware of imitations: The genuine is signed.
-MUSK DEER
TRADE MARK.
Read ! Read ! Read f
“THE BULLETIN’S”
History of Botany Bay,
By Arthur Gayll.
Profusely Illustrated by The Bulletin’s well-
known Artists,
L. HOPKINS and PHIL MAY.
Price - One Shilling
Per post, Is. 3d.
r JMIE COLONIAL MUTUAL LIFE ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED.
BRANCHES THROUGHOUT THE COLONIES AND THE UNITED KINGDOM.
Policies issued under the Qx-c3.xxxa.i-y, Mod.ifl.ed Tontine and Mortuary Divid.en.ci Systems.
THE: SYDNEY CATERING COMPANY.
(Late Gunsler’s Cafe)
175 Pitt Street, Sydney,
WISH their former Patrons and the Public Generally to know that their Saloons have been Entirely Reoeoanised and shall be si-
their new cusine a trial. JAMES 0- MAEOTTAIS
LTD..
1 if they will gire
Manager-


Business Announcements.
TURPIN & BRIAN,
Wholesale and Family Grocers,
623 George Street, Sydney,
ABE THE
CHEAPEST GROCERS In the CITY!
A Trial Solicited,
WHITE SUGAR, 2Jd. per lb.
ROLLER FLOUR, ss. 501 b. bag.
SPERMS, sd.
HAIR’S SPICED & FRIED HERRINGS,
6Jjd. per tin.
Large Bottle W. SAUCE, 6d.
„ PICKLES, 6d.
COCOA, 4£d. per packet.
41b. Bar SOAP, 6d.
NEW DATES, 3d. per lb.
i SARDINES, 3s. 9d. per dozen.
Box TEA, 10s. 6d., good and cheap.
51b. WHITE SUGAR and 11b. TEA, 2s.
NOTE THE ADDRESS:
623-George Street—623
Haymarket, SYDNEY.
(Opposite Square and Compass Hotel.)
A. BOWMAN’S
LONDON MADE
Porpoise Hide Boots
Are Reduced from 30s. to 21s.
249 PITT ST., SYDNEY, Near Tattersall's.
Porpoise Hide Wears Twice as Long
as any other Leather.
They are noted all oyer London,
Birmingham and Liverpool.
Zjoxidozi Fashions,
AND
Fresh Goods Every Fortnight.
Trade Supplied Wholesale at a Great Advantage.
uii/
&
c
IdaiMal
65
S^T
THIS valuable Lotion is guaranteed to cure SWELLING
and SANDY BLIGHT, INFLAMED EYES and LIDS,
DIMNESS OF SIGHT, &c. It will be found very bene-
ficial and cooling to those who have weak eyes, or whose
work compels them to strain their eyes. Highly
recommended by the leading Oculists.
Manufactured only by the Proprietor,
H. ROSE.
Dispensing and Manufacturing Chemist^
531 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Wholesale by the Proprietor and all Wholesale Houses.
Established 1858. By Post 3s. 6d.
•set 1 ’ Manufacturer of Dr. SOUTHAN’S GOUT and
RHEUMATIC PILLS.
yw
ULUiAii
ť
t
mm
ns
NO
DON’T
WASTE
IT
Ton "Will most certainly save Money,
Time, and Anxiety by placing all your
Advertising in our
bands.
"Write
to
F. T. WIMBLE & CO.,
Advertising Experts,
WO to 573 George St., Syd. Send for Pamphlet
•' How to advertise and why ? ” 31th Edition.
ţ
arm era?a co.,
TEA IMPORTERS
AND
BLENDERS,
FOOCHOW and SYDNEY.
Office and Sample Rooms:
385 Pitt Street, Sydney.
I®'" Agents Wanted in every Town throughout
the Colony.
JJ I STORY OF BOTANY BAY.
PRICE-ONE SHILLING.
ť
Business Announcements.
r
rv
. r-
btlßTs
u
R s
A
■
K*
t'J
$
iCYES
a
o
r~^i
(_3
■it
1
ROBERTS & 0 0.,
—W HOLESALE-
Ironmongers* Importers* Iron and Machinery Merchants*
HAY AND ENGINE STREETS SYDNEY,
Head Office: 85 Gracechurch Street, London, E.C.
IMPORTERS OF
Railway Sc Bridge Contractors'
Plumbers'
Squatters'
Requirements
IN
Great Variety.
' IMPORTERS OF
Engineers’ and Blacksmiths
Couchbuilders'
Mining
AGENTS FOR:
Kortlng’s Gas Engines— The best and cheapest yet made. Automatic self-governing, thus saving cost of gas.
Braddock’s Water and Gas Meters and Gas Lamps. Reading Iron Works Universal (Split) Pulley Wheels.
Howe’s Platform and Counter Weighing Machines and Weighbridges.
1
Guinness’ Extra Stout,
FIRST QUALITY.
Bass Pale A le,
FIRST QUALITY.
SOLE PUEVKYORS TO THE
Colonial & Indian Exhibition,
London,
(By Special Appointment).
Wholesale Agents Balchin, Johnston & Co., Sydney.
Ask for Supper’s Blberfeld Lager
(Specially Brewed for Australia). Absolutely Free from Sediment.
ALLAN A. MARSHALL Sc CO.,
Engineers, Coppersmiths, Brass and Bell Founders,
Finishers, Plumbers, Ship & General Smiths,
Gasfitters, Art & Mediaeval Metal Worker
ROLLER SKATES (any make) with RRASS or WOODEN WHEELS.
—o —
Verity’s Gas Fires, Heaters and Ventilators at greatly Reduced Prices—ll,ooo Fires already in use
Importers and Manufacturers of Diving Gear, Yacht and Boat Work of every description in
or Brass, Ships’ Single and Double Action Valve .Closets, Fire Hydrants, Hose and all appliances
Iron i
Bon Accord Works, 9 Macquarie Place, Sydney.
Federated, Squatters
—AND—
Farmers’ Co-Operative Association of Australasia, Limited,
Q,TJ_A.Yr, SYDITEY.
WOOL and PRODUCE BROKERS, STOCK and STATION AGENTS.
Advances Made and Deposits Received at Current Rates. Correspondence Invited.
“ The Male Generative Function in Health and Disease
—BY—
PATERSON, M.A.., M.D.,
F.R.C.S., Ed. ; M.R.C.S., Eno.
PRICE ... TWO SHILLINGS and SIXPENCE.
)(
OPINIONS OF THE PRESS;
“Valuable medical work—the Doctor is a quali-
fied man and speaks with authority.”— Town and
Country Journal.
“Can recommend it as a work written by a
gentleman who has attained a very high status in
his profession.”—Manning River Times.
“It set? forth scientific truths which, in the in-
terests of individuals and society, should be more
generally disseminated.”— Bathurst Free Press.
“ Society would be all the better if people only
gave a little of their reading time to such valuable
medical works as Dr. Paterson has in this instance
given to them.”— Mudoee Independent.
“The author not only fully understands the
perils which beset youth and manhood, but he can
point out the remedies.” —Cobar and Louth
Herald.
“Ur. Paterson, M.A., M.D., F.R.0.5.E., is a
high authority on the matters he deals with.”—
COONAMBLE INDEPENDENT.
“The work is well written, and far away the
best we have read on the subject.”—Wiloannia
Times.
“The subject is treated in a manner which
shows the author thoroughly understands it.”—
Fielding Star, N.Z.
“ The book cannot be too widely circulated, and
should be in the hands of every person, male or
female.”— Poverty Bay Independent, N.Z.
“Totally different from anything else of the
kind which has come under our notice. ” — Bedoe
Herald, N.Z.
“It is a work which every young man should
read and lay to heart.” —Boeder Post.
157 Elizabeth Street, Hyde Park, SYDNEY.
) x (
CONSULTATION BY LETTER, £l.
Medical.
ŧ
IF SO,
DON’T MISS THIS !
What everyone says is bound to be true, and young
and old, rich and poor, physicians who recommend, ana
patients who try
The Krupp Galvanic Chain Belt,
All agree in praising that most .scientific of Electro
Therapeutical Appliances. For Rheumatism it is un-
rivalled. Lumbago at once succumbs to its power. The
Nervous are strengthened and the Debilitated restored to
perfect health and vigour. In short, the appliance is an
unfailing cure for all Nervous, Sexual, or Chronic Diseases,
and is GUARANTEED to ABSOLUTELY CURE, com-
pletely and lasting'ly, the following complaints:—
Dyspepsia, Neuralgia, Pains in the Back and Chest,
Lumbago, Catarrh, Rheumatism, Dumb Ague,
Nervous Debility, Paralysis, Kidney Complaint,
Spinal Disease. Female Weakness, Diseases of the
Liver, Impotence, Seminal Weakness, Diabetes,
Sciatica, Atrophy, Gout, Indigestion, Asthma, Piles,
Epilepsy Spermatorrhoea, Specks before the Eyes,
Excessive Heart Palpitation, Defective Memory,
An Unfailing Cure For Varicocele-
It is a PORTABLE BODY BATTERY, and contains-
special appliances for both sexes; therefore, Why waste
your money and health by procuring and taking USELESS
DRUGS? Electricity, when properly applied, is acknow-
ledged by all leading and unprejudiced physicians to be
the only safe and radical cure for Nervous and Sexual
Diseases, and the thousands of testimonials received by
the Krupp Belt Co. from leading personages throughout
Australasia prove the unquestionable curative properties
of Electricity as applied by theappliance above referred to.
Our confidence in this appliance is so complete, that
we send the Belt out on trial, and guarantee it
to give perfect satisfaction. For full particulars as to
terms, etc., send for our large illustrated treatise, free,
in which these Belts are fully illustrated, the action of
electricity on the nervous system explained, and a lot of
useful information on nervous and sexual diseases g’iyen.
This treatise also contains facsimile of testimonials received
from some of our clients who have tried our Belts. The
originals of these testimonials produced on application.
xiie prices of the Krupp Galvanic Chain Belt and
Suspensory are from £l.
Sole Inventor .... Carl Krupp.
Business Manager . . A. W. Courtney.
Address all communications to the
Krupp Galvanic Chain Belt Co.,
Box 647, G.P.0., Sydney, N.S.W.
Remember—The K.G. Chain Belt cures without medicine,
is easy to wear, is sent on approval, and the first cost if
the only cost.
INDISPENSABLE JOE ADI E_S
AND ALL PERSONS
With a Delicate Skin:
MOU SON’S
COCOABUTTERSOAP
Cocoa Butter Soap is a real skin-beautifier, and a balm t(
young and old alike.
MOtJSON & CO., PERFUMERS & TOILET SOAP MANUFACTURERS
FRANKFOBT-ON-TIIE-MAINE.
LONDONt 32 &33 HAMBELL-ST., E.C. PARIS: 29 RUE RADZIWILL
Full guarantee for perfect purity is offered by the
soleManufacturbrs, MOuson & Co.
JULIUS GOLDSCHMIDT & CO.,
231 CLARENCE-ST., SYDNEY,
SOLE AGENTS FOR AUSTRALASIA.
Companies.
The British and Blew South Wales Investment
and Financial C,'o„ Limited.
Incorporated under the Companies’ Act, 1871.
Capital, £250,000.
Sydney Office: 246 PITT STREET.
B
ILLS DISCOUNTED and Immediate Advances granted
1 Daily. Country communications promptly attended
to. The following Rates of Interest are allowed for Fixed
Deposits:—
3 Years 10 per cent.
12 Months .... .... 9 per cent.
6 Months .... .... 8 per cent.
3 Months 7 per cent.
With a Guaranteed Bonus on Renewals of Twelve Month*
and over.
By order of the Board.
W. M'DONALD, Manager.
Cities’ Life Assurance Company,.
LIMITED.
Capital ... ... £200,000.
Head Office:
21 Ca.stlerea.gh St., Sydney,
With Branches and Agencies throughout the Colonies.
]NTew Buainess:
1887 There were Issued 19,557 Policies.
1888 » .. 34,084 ~
1889 » .. 57,332 „
These figures show the wonderful progress of th«
Company and the high esteem placed upon its
liberal dealings by the public.
CLAIMS PAID
Immediately on Proof of Death
JAMES P. GARY AN, >
WM. ALEX. SMITH, f
Managing Director.
Secretary.


Mod'cal.
mM[u
my-
tik'M LE
EUREKA
ELECTRIC BELTaTO
K%/ V
: v
tUS\
«
A NEVER FAILING CURE FOR ALL,
DISEASES OF THE NERVOUS SYSTEM.
Complete with Suspensory Appliances from £l. 0. 0 and
upwards. This famous Electric Magnetic Belt will cure
NERVOUS DEBILITY, Seminal Debility, Impotence,
and all weakness caused by indiscretion, i ains in the
Back, Lumbago, Giddiness, Rheumatism, Kidney and
Bladder complaints, and in fact any disease of the Nervous
System. The currents are steady and constantly felt by
the wearer. It has great improvements over all other
belts, we are willing to furnish those belts on 30 days
trial, and accept payment after they have proved them-
selves what we represent them to be. Those belts are
made for the specific purpose of producing a continuous,
mild, soothing current of electricity through all the weak-
ened parts, restoring them to health and vigorous strength,
even the worst case permanently cured in three months.
It is more convenient to wear than any other Belt.
A Book illustrated, containing full information and testi-
monials from prominent people throughout Australia,
and informing persons how they may obtain these belts
without paying for them until they have proved them com-
petent to cure any disease of the Nervous System, will be
forwarded to any address on receipt of a 2d stamp fat
postage.
AddressVOLTAIC BELT COMPANY
Box 916, G. P, 0., Sydney.
Dr. James B. Llewellyn,
(registered)
SPECIALIST in
GENITO-UEINAEY DISEASES,
May be CONSULTED at
-3 25 LONSDALE STREE T—
(between Swanston <£ Elizabeth Sts J,
MELBOURNE.
W Consulting- Hours—lo to 2; 7to 9. Sunday
Mornings, 10 to 11.
All Personal Consultations are free ; by letter the
Fee is £l, which is inclusive of medicines.
t
Barry’s
Tricopherous
FOR thz
HAIR ft SKIN
o*
An elegant dressing ex-
quisitely perfumed, re-
moves all impurities from
the scalp, prevents bald-
ness and gray hair, and causes the hair to grow
Thick, Soft and Beautiful. Infallible for curing
eruptions, diseases of the skin, glands and muscles,
and quickly healing cuts, burns, bruises, sprains, &c.
Caution,— None genuine without the trade-mark of
Bakclat & Co., New York, affixed to each bottle.
Barr/s
Pearl
cream
forth©
Complexion
Misui
Impart* to the darkest skin a clear, natural white,
tinged with the faintest rose-blush. Speedily removes
Wrinkles, Freckles, Sunburn and Tan, and mantles
the faded cheek with youthful bloom and beauty.
CAUTION.— None genuine without the trade-mark
of Barclay & Co., New York, affixed to each bottle
A BLESSING IN EVERY FAMILY.
HOLLOAVAY’S pills and ointment.
There is not a country in the civilised world where
the healing virtues of thes a grand medicines have not been
recognised by thousands of sufferers. In all the ordinary
ailments of humanity their beneficent action is at once
recognised. Fullest directions are supplied for their use
in every disease. IF YOU SUFFER, TRY THEM. Manu-
factured only at 76 New Oxford-st., London. Pur-
chasers should look to the Label on the Boxes and Pots.
If the address is not 523 Oxford-street, London, they are
spurious.
LOONG SHAN TEA HOUSE
NOW OPEN.
Quozig Tart & Co.’s
EXTENSIVE NEW PREMISES
(Nearly opposite Theatre Royal).
FIRST-CLASS GRILLS,
As well as all kinds of Refreshments, may
be obtained from 7.30 a.m. to 11.30 p.m.
CUP OF DELICIOUS TEA.
ICED DRINKS OF ALL KINDS, &c.
The rooms are splendidly furnished and
fitted up. In addition to the large and
well - appointed Refreshment Rooms,
gentlemen will find on the Second Floor
Commodious and Comfortable Smoking
and Conversation Rooms, furnished with
Chess, Draughts, &c., &c.
TO THE LADIES.
On the First Floor will be found Nice
Private Room for Ladies, convenient for
Writing, Reading, &c., also Retiring
Rooms and Lavatory, with both hot and
cold water laid on. Inspection Invited.
Finest Teas imported—Packets |lb. and
upwards supplied. Orders promptly at-
tended to.
187 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
T
A
R
T
Q
U
O
N
G
T
A
K
T
C
O
M
P
A
N
Y
Medical.
A WONDERFUL MEDICINE.
Beecliam’s Pills
Are universally admitted
to be worth a Guinea
a Box for bilious
and nervous disorders,
such as wind and pain in
the stomach, sick head-
ache, giddiness, fulness
and swelling after meals,,
dizziness, and drowsiness,
cold chills, flushings of
heat, loss of appetite,
shortness of breath, cos-
tiveness, scurvy, blotches
on tlie skin, disturbed
sleep, frightful dreams,
and all nervous and trem-
bling sensations, &o. The
first dose will give relief
~ . . in twenty minutes. Every
b,ll er J 8 earnestly invited to try one box of these
mils, and they will be acknowledged" to be
patent
PILLS.
Worth a Guinea a Box.
For fimales of all ages these Pills are invaluable,
as a few doses of them carry off all humors, and
bring' about all that is required. No female should
be without them. There is no medicine to be found
equal to BEECHAM’S PILLS for removing any
obstruction or irregularity of. the system. If taken ac-
cording to the directions given with each box they will
f oo uu restor ? feula l es °f all ages to sound and robust
health. This has been proved by thousands who have
tried them, and found the benefits which are ensured by
their use
For a weak stomach, impaired digestion and all disorders
of the liver, they act like “ MAGIC,” and a few doses will
be found to work wonders upon the most important
organs in the human machine. They strengthen the
whole muscular system, restore the long-lost complexion,
bring back the keen edge of appetite, and arouse into ac-
tion with the ROSEBUD of health the whole physical
energy of thehnman frame. These are “FACTS” tes ifled
continually by members of all classes of society ; and
? n ® °f best guarantees to the nervous and debilitated
is, Beecham’s Pills have the largest sale of any patent
medicine in the world.
Beecham’s Magic Cough. Pills.
As a remedy for Coughs in general, Asthma, Bronchial
Affections, Hoarseness, Shortness of Breath, Tightness
and Oppression of the Chest, Wheezing, &0., these Pills
stand unrivalled. They are the best ever offered to the
public and «ill speedily remove that sense of oppression
and difficulty of breathing which nightly deprive the
patient of rest. Let any person give Bbecham’s Cough
Pills a trial and the most violent Cough will in a
short time be removed.
Prepared only and sold wholesale and retail by the pro-
prietor, Thomas Beecham, Chemist, St. Helens, Lancashire,
England, in boxes at Is. Ud. and 2s. 9d. each. —Sold by
all Druggists and Patent Medicine Dealers everywhere.
N.B.—Full directions are given with each box.
CONSULT PROFESSOR SELBY,
376 Cleveland Street, Surry Hills, Sydney,
Personally or by letter on Ctironic Complaints
of the Nervous System, Diseases of the Urinary
Organs and all Impurities of the Blood. A Positive
Cure in all cases amendable to treatment. Suf-
ferers should read the Professor’s valuable treatise,
sent post free to all who send their address. It
contains Advice on Marriage, worth its weight
in gold.
epTFs
GRATEFUL—COMFORTING
COCOA.
Dr. westcott’s amenorrhcea
PILLS for Ladies, when taken for a few
days before, quickly correct all irregularities
from whatever cause arising ; 2s. 9d. and 4s. 6d.,
by post 3s. and ss. W. H. SOUL and CO., 190
Pitt-street, Sydney, Agents.
Musical.
INGHAM’S
PATENT SCALE INSTRUCTOR
FOR THE —
PIAIiTOFOBTE.
PUPILS can obtain the above at once, and the best
way to illustrate its usefulness to them is to sup-
pose a man to live to be a hundred years old and never
to have seen a Piano, he would, with five minutes’
instruction, be able to play the most difficult Major and
Minor Scales on the instrument.
Miscellaneous.
WA. LEWIS, old-established Private Detective,
■ for the discovery of Missing Friends, tracing
Absconders, watching Suspected Persons, and prosecuting
all kinds of Private and Confidential Enquiries ; obtaining
Evidence in Divorce, Libel, Fraud, Bigamy, Breach of
Promise ; extracts from or Copies of Wills, or Certificates
of Births, Marriages or Deaths obtained in any part of the
world. Bankrupt Schedules Filed, £l, by a legal gentle-
man duly admitted and practising in ail the courts of
N.S.W., who may be consulted at my office on all legal
work. Consultation Free. Rents arid Debts Collected,
Distress Warrants issued, steady and trustworthy Bailiffs
employed, and all moneys received are promptly accounted
for. W. A. LEWIS cautions the public against so-called
old-established private detective agencies, as he is con-
nected with no agents in Sydney. An intelligent, well-
trained staff of Male and Female Assistants retained,
capable, when necessary, of assuming any character in
life—from a newspaper boy to a clergyman, or from a
servant girl to a lady. Terms Moderate. Consultation
Free. Address—
Pikknix Chambers, 158 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
[Telephone 723.
Sydney Canister Works,
COLLINS STREET, SURRY HILLS,
OFF CROWN STREET.
Manufacturers of all kinds of Tins for Confectioners*
Tea Merchants, Biscuit Makers, &c., also all kinds
of Tins, round and square, for Pepper, Spice and
Baking Powder, made by improved machinery.
A. Trial Solicited.
SPECIAL NOTICE.—The Sydney Bulletin.
Tasmanian Edition Publishers, FITZ-
GERALD BROS. Subscription (payable strictly
in advance), Six Shillings and Sixpence per quar-
ter, or One Pound per annum.
The Bulletin will be on Sale every Friday at
the Office, George Street, Launceston, or from the
Runners in the street.
Business Announcements
HE BANK OF NEW ZEALAND.
C 4 PITT STREET, and 538 GEORGE STREET.
Paid-up Capital £1,125,000
The Bank has Agents in all the principal cities
throughout the United States of America and
Canada, and can offer special facilities for dealing
in Bullion, Bills of Exchange, Commercial and
Travellers’ Letters of Credit.
Drafts issued and Bills collected on most favour-
aide terms, at rates which can be ascertained on
application.
EL HILDE R,
BOOT UPPISH MANUFACTURER
ENGLISH AND FOREIGN LEATHER,
IHtisfic Vfcb, (Grindery, Ac.,
V/holesale and Retail Leather Merchant
539 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Sydney Branches:
N. F. GIBLIN, Manager.
IMI’OKTER OF
£3
/lEV£Ry x
DESCRIPTION
HAIR WORK DONE
izs.z^
ROYAL ARCADE
MELBOURNE
X PHIVAT t
ROOMS
FOR LADIES
€ 0
<</
>
&
J. SITTERLIN,
PROM PARIS,
Ladies’ Hairdresser. Wigmaker, Sc Perfumer,
25 SYDNEY ARCADE, SYDNEY.
HISTORICAL AND FANCY HAIRDRESSING A
SPECIALTY.
Manufacturer of All Kinds of Theatbical
and Street Wigs.
Aiumonluted Quinine,
The most efficient Hair Lotion, to prevent prema-
ture baldness.
Sitterlin's Vegetable Hair-dye,
The only Hair-dye in the colonies to restore Light
Hair to its natural colour. All shades.
Success G-uarauteed..
MANUFACTURING HATTERS
GEORGE STREET
SYDNEY
IMPORTERS OEAILTHE
NEWESTSHAPES.
And at ALBERT STREET, BRISBANE.
ţ
t
s
fIUCH
INC
fA
*/
PO
FACTORED BY A, J
JjM£S Cf/AMNOk S/arbovrS* & r^4
l old. Inj all SsiocjtAji g S/oreAeefoen>
Business Announcements
IJIHE THREE GREAT LIGHTS!
The Needles Patent Gas-making Machine;
The Harvey Patent Safety Kerosene Lamp;
And the New Era Portable Gas Lamp.
The Harvey Lamp has been adopted by tha
Railway Commissioners for lighting the Sydney
trams. We wore awarded the Highest Order of
Merit and Special Mention by experts at tha
late _ Melbourne Exhibition for our lighting
mediums. Over COOO Harvey Lamps are in use
in this colony, and for all lighting purposes are
giving universal satisfaction, j hese Lamps can
be seen on one of the North Shore ferry-boats,
and are suitable for all classes of vessels. The
Inventor offers £2OO to anyohe producing as good
a Kerosene Burner.
Patentees for Australasia:
H. T. Smith & Co., 454 Kent St. South, Sydney;
14 Arcade, Adelaide, S.A.; Argent Street, Broken Hill;
Parkside Iron Works, Melbourne.
The Cheapest and Best Horsefeed
IN NEW SOUTH WALES.
CHAMPION OATEN CHAFF!
PRIME OATEN CHAFE!
LUCERNE CHAFE!
MIXED CHAFF!
Our own Cutting. Fresh every day.
Buy from us and save money. 156
City Produce Company,
STEAM CHAFF-CUTTERS.
HAY STREET, HAYMARKET.
Hotels.
PFAHLERT’S HOTEL,
SYDNEY, N S.W.,
Opposite the Park, V/ynyard Square.
(Under New Management.)
tPHIS for 25 years well-known First-class Central Hotel,
recently thoroughly renovated throughout, has every
comfort and attention of a home. The Cuisine Department
is under competent French supervision. Dining Room
open for Non-Residents. Open-air Recreation Garden.
A well-ventilated Billiard Room adjoining Recreation
Ground (three Aloock’s best Tables), under the manage-
ment of A. Buckingham, late of Empire Hotel. Wines,
and Spirits of the very best quality only, and the Finest
and Coolest Bar in Town
HOT AND COLD BATHS.
lar NIGHT PORTER. Trench
German
Telephone No. 150. Italian
■ Spoken.
SPECIAL SUITES FOR FAMILIES.
CHAS. HECHT ... Manager.
Hr* and Mrs. Thomas Asche
Beg to inform their Friends and Patrons that,
in addition to other recent improvements at the
ZR-03T.A.XJ HOTEL,
a first-class HYDRAULIC ELEVATOR has
been erected for the convenience of Visitors,
rendering it the most complete and comfortable
house in Sydney; and with the personal and un-
ceasing attention of Mr. and Mrs. Asche in every
detail of management, they rely on the continued
patronage of their many old friends, whose kindly
recommendation of the ROYAL HOTEL to their
friends will be esteemed.
THE GEOKGE HOTEL
(opposite Railway Station, near Baths),
St. Kilda, Victoria.
First-class Family & Commercial Hotel.
For particulars, apply to
S'. WIMPOLE,
PROPRIETOR.
J£ATOOMBA FAMILY HOTEL.
JOSEPH NIM MO.
First-class Accommodation for Tourists and Families
Wires and Letters to be addressed “ Proprietor.”
Arrangements can be made to provide transit for persons
wishing to view the celebrated Jeuolan Caves and
other places of interest.
Roya l hotel.
Esplanade.
ST. KILDA, VICTORIA,
Facing Beach, close to Pier and Baths. Ten
minutes from Station.
H. MOONEY .... Proprietor.
LIVERY LETTING STABLES ATTACHED
Telephone 682.
First-class Accommodation for Visitors
STANDARD H O TEL~
CASTLEREAGH and BATHURST STREETS.
Thoroughly renovated throughout.
First-class accommodation for Country Visitors.
G. BOYNE ... ... Proprietor.
A GOLDEN SHANTY.
Price One Shilling.
Australian stories and sketches is prose and verse
—BY—
“BULLETIN” WRITERS.


SHEVILL &
Corner Queen Street and Flinders Lane,
MELBOURNE.
MERCANTILE AUCTIONEERS,
House, Land, and Estate Agents,
Advances made ajrainst shipments of Merchandise
and Colonial Produce.
Daily Sales held at their Commodious
, New Uajuuia.
OUT 1)0 0 R
Fund tun & Land Sales Conducted.
Branch j~
Offices (
32 Chapel St., Prahran.
2 Albert St., Windsor,
Branch
Offices
Anglo Scandinavian
Cold Medal
Milk.
Acknowledged
The Best
WALLACH BROS.’
SXTES'W
FURNITURE
WAREHOUSES,
York Street, Wynyard Square, Sydney,
Now supply the General Public as well as the Trade.
10,000 Bedsteads,
Prom IDs. Cdl. to £35.
r
H. Ei. leach,
SUCCESSOR TO
GB. MODINI, Gunmaker, informs his Customers
■ and the Public in general that he has the largest
assortment of Firearms in the colony. Qualities and prices
to defy competition. Guns by the following celebrated
gunmakers:— J. Pukuey & Sons, Oh. Boswell, John Eight
and Co., Joseph Lang & Sons, On. Osborne & Co., Thomas
Bland & Son. A large assortment of various other makers
always on hand, viz., W. VV. Greener, Scott, Webley,
Hollis & Sons, Riley and Casii.morb. All goods will be
faithfully guaranteed at 602 George-street, Sydney.
Price list on application.
Xb.om.as ■ Hobs,
TOBACCO &. CIGAR IMPORTER,
27 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
(Corner 'of Pitt Street.)
A large stock of Genuine ■lavaimali Cigars, of the
choicest Brands to select from.
Sole Importer of the Celebrated “ Flor de Bonlto :
Brand of Cigars and “* Empire Cigarettes.”
Palls Bridge Pamily H otei '.
Falls Bridge, Melbourne.
This magnificent Hotel, containing 50 Double
and Single Rooms, is splendidly furnished and
perfectly ventilated.
Hot and Cold Plunge and Shower Baths.
Electric Bells. Telephone 1217 Billiards, dec.
Terms Strictly Moderate.
J. H. DURR ANT Manager
Late of the South Australian Club Hotel, Adelaide,
Free Prescriptions
Are to be found in the “Light and Life,’
for the Speedy Cure of Nervous Debility and
Kindred Diseases, &c. A copy of this book will
be sent Free, sealed, for Six Penny Stamps.
Address —
S. WARD Sc CO.. SYDNEY PHARMACY,
76 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
FRY’S MALTED COCOA
Uuutlugton Hill.
Knowles' Pumps.
PARKE & LACY GO.,
MINING & HYDRAULIC ENGINEERS
AND
GENERAL MACHINERY MERCHANTS,
&c., &C., &c.
187 & 189 Clarence Street,
SYDNEY, 3NT.S.-W.
And SAN FRANCISCO, CALIFORNIA.
ICock Breakers.
r**
Wcstlnghouse Engines.
CIS3C JLXME
X
Hay St., Haymarket, Sydney,
ENGINES,
2 to 50 H.P.
BOILERS,
1 to 35 H.P.
STEAM PUMPS
For all purposes.
umim.4L pumps,
2" to 40" discharge.
HAND PUMPS.
Saw Benches.
Lathes.
DMI MACH m.
&.C., &c.
—MB
m 1 llii mm
W '
m
WIND!NS ENGINES,
Hauling Engines.
Battery Engines.
Saw-mill Engines.
riOM-L EMB,
ENGINES
FOR
Electric Lighting.
Vertical Boilers.
Maltitttklar Sellers,
CORNISH lIOILEKS.
&c., &c.
We invite al t..ose requiring Machinery of any kind for any pur] wise, large or small, to write for particulars and prices. From the extent of. our stock we are generally able to give immediate delivery.
1 Visitors, whether buyers or n t, are always welcome to insect the magnificent display in our new and extensive Showrooms,
12Q 13 X, 133 & 135 HA.Y STREET, HAYMARKET, SYDME Y,
