

9
ROBERTS’ HOTEL,
ILCarlret Street,
UNRIVALLED ACCOMMODATION.
BALDWIN DRY AIR REFRIGERATOR.
Beware of the many- so-called Dry Air Refrigerators advertised by unscrupulous Manufacturers and Dealers, intending
to deceive the pubMc and trade upon our reputation. This is the original and celebrated Dry Air Refrigerator, made
famous by its successful competition at the leading Exhibitions in the United States for* the past Six Years, known as
the Baldwin Dry Air Refrigerator.
WHITE MOUNTAIN FREEZERS, ICE MILK CANS, MIXERS,
LEMOKT SQTJKEZjEnS,
JSea., JSk i
ZL/dZcHLiestn. Bros, Sz • Big'g*,
512 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
rpilE COLONIAL MUTUAL LIFE ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED,
BRANCHES THROUGHOUT THE COLONIES AND THE UNITED KINGDOM.
Policies issued under the Ordinary, Modified Tontine and Mortuary Dividend Systems,
The
MUTUAL STORE, Llmitea,
Opposite the FLINDERS STREET TERMINUS, MELBOURNE.
The advantages of the Mutual Store are now offered to the general public, and Visitors to Melbourne will have all their requirements supplied from under One Roof.
The following are the Departments of the Store Grocery and Dressed Provisions. Poultry and Game Grain and Fuel. Wine, Beer arid Spirits Stationery and Fancy Goods. Iron-
wv: General Furnishing and Electroplate. Boots and Shoes. Woollens and Tailoring. Gentlemen’s Merce#. Furniture and Carpets. China and Glass. Drapery : General. Hosiery
and Gloves. Millinery and Dressmaking. Mantles. Underclothing. Silks and Dresses. Manchester.
mongery ; General Furnishing
Mf Refreshment Rooms, where Light Luncheon and Afternoon Tea are provided. .. -
on Hire by Hour, Day, Week or Month.
Special attention is paid to Country and Station Orders. Cash Customers removing their own Goods are Entitled to a Discount of 5 per cent.
SS' Well-appointed Broughams, Victorias, Waggonettes, etc., from Company’s own Livery Stables
on Hire by Hour, Day, Week or Month. .. _ ... . - . _ , ’
• - • ~ 1 - 1 J " ‘ Open to the Public for Cash Purchases.
J.
c.
&
‘‘ »« ■> J - *
Howard’s Colonist 3-Furrow Digging
Plough.—(lt.Z.O.ls)
d
Howard’s Single-Furrow Digging
Plough.-—(O.L.)
TPlie Plougrli of* the Times!
PLOUGHING AND HARROWING IN ONE ACT.
Share Points only oost 6d., and are Reversible.
Chaff - Ctnrk us, Horse Gears and every kind of Agricultural Implements
ITsT STOOKI.
tgg" Enquirers please quote this paper.
2SOk PITT STPEET, SYDNEY
(Corner op Pitt and Bathurst Streets).
m
&
7/
(/,
mmm.
-THE-
LONDON* SYDNEY
TEA
COMPANY.
409-KMT STREET—4O9
■ ' (Two doora Irom Market-Street),
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
'-IMWWB7
HI I C - H-C X. s S A3ST |&c OHIUA
Ftkas | !
Packed in 201 h. and 401 b, Packages, and delivered 1 at Is. 6d I, Is. 9d. and 2s. per lb.
(Carriage Free) to any Railway Station or Port in ijNew South Wales.
A Single PacLige at Wholesale Price. Correspondence*invited and promptly attended to.
The Bulletin
Yol. 11—No. 521,]
[Saturday, February 8, 1890.


TOBACCO
99
mi
u
m
ij
m
m
*
C 3
O
30
X
☆
o
SIR ROGER
50
V
a
pi
□IX
Dr. RIDGE’S
FOOD
FOR INFANTS AND INVALIDS
Has an enormous sale in England
and is now being Introduced into the
Colonies.
Every Storekeeper should get a supply
as every AViso mother will certainly
use it.
DR. RIDGE'S ROYAL FOOD MILLS,
LONDON, ENGLAND.
MS
V’BOSJWf
SAIFIM
t’ ,u —’taTl.
B °3*9.
BROWN’S
SATIN
POLISH
■—FOR —
LADIES’ AND CHILDREN’S
BOOTS AND SHOES.
Awarded highest honors at
Phila., 1870 Melbourne, 1880
Berlin, 1877 Frankfort, 1881
Paris, 1878 Amsterd’m 1883
New Orleans, -1884-85, and wherever
exhibited.
Paris medal on every Lottie.
Beware of Imitations.
This Blacking is in liquid form and is applied to shoes
or other articles of leather by means of a sponge, attached
to the cork by a wire, so that the blacking can be used by
anyone without soiling the fingers. No polishing brush
is required. It dries immediately after being applied, and
will not soil the most delicate clothing.
Sold largely in Australia through Commission Merchants
and Dealers.
B. F. BROWN & CO.,
Boston, U.S.A., MTgs.
B.
K I T T E N B E R G & CO.
IMPORTERS,
81 Cliirfiire St , Square.
Furniture , Mirrors , Oleographs , and Mouldings.
f ATKINSON’S
ENGLISH PERFUMERY
surpasses ail others for its natural
fragrance.
A.Ticxisrsoi'T’S
ODININE HAIR LOTION,
Unsurpassed for promoting the growth
and improving the appearance of the
hair, guaranteed perfectly harmless.
ATKINSON’S
FLORIDA WATER,
An exceptionally fine Perfume for
the Handkerchief, distilled from the
choicest exotics.
O/nll Drnlrrs nml of the Mnnufa'turert—
J. & E. ATKINSON,
21, OLD BOND STREET, LONDON.
V T, aJe Mark —“White Rose"on ■‘Oolden j
1 j re,” with AdJress In lull. -A)
T. LAWLESS, Junr.,
37 MARKET STREET,
SYDNEY,
NEVER T RAVEL WIT HOLT IT.
WANTED IN
HOUSE.
m
ANIMALS
EFFECTUALLY DESTROYS.
A a NOXIOUS
FLEAS.FLIES BEETLES
[COCKROACHES.**':** 0 AND IS
AT THE SAME TIMEQUItE
HARMLESS TO BI RDS DOGS,
FOWLS OR OTHER L^
Sjjfr
c
<y'x*
3010
rNTJ.'iS
ipIVAROS
AND STORE.KIEPE.RS
whousaU
FELTO N • C Rl MW A OtU C ?i
- MELBOURNE — i
TED IN EVERY HOUSE.
for KRUSE’S-INSECTICIDE, and Beware
of the Numerous Imitations.
CLARENDON HOTEL, MANLY,
The Brighton of New South Wales.
AT the CLARENDON HOTEL, Banquets, Suppers, Private Dinners, Evening Parties, etc., are
served on the Shortest Notice in the Large Dining Hall. Besides having a most rcchercM
Dinner, you can enjoy from the balconies the magnificent view of the sea and surrounding country;
here also you can have good company, good wines—in fact, everything that can possibly make one
comfortable can be found at this really first-class hotel. Fishing and Picnic Parties provided. Table
dc Hole at One o’clock daily and Sundays. No expense is spared by Mrs. Kilminstek to make her
\ isitors comfortable and her Hotel the best in the colony.
Mira. KILMIKTSTEIEI, Clarendon Hotel,
Opposite OCEAN BEACH, MANLY.
JOHN BTJCKHA.M,
449 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
Tents Tarpaulins, Wool,” Dray and Waggon Covers
(greased or oiled), Canvas Water Bottles, Coolers, \\ him
Buckets, Horse Rugs, Nose Bags, Oiled Loin Cloths. Send
to or call at
449 ELIZABETH STREET, MELBOURNE
(Oldest Established House in the Trade).
SURVEYORS TENTS A SPECIALITY.
68 Hunter Street, and 8 Bligh Street,
SYDNEY.
IF 1 . SHEOEDEE
LIVERY, BAIT, LET-OUT AND COMMIS-
SION STABLES.
Horses and Vehicles of every description for
Sale or Hire; also, good reliable Ladies or Gentle-
men’s Hacks.
WILLIAM CARGILL,
Photographic Stock Importer,
2 6 MARKET STREET, SYDNEY.
A FF'EY
V »
to
i'v
> 'i-
°*.
it*
D
\l/
\l/
a
c
0
FFICES
M i IDUR a Victoria.
M elbourne Ckaffoy Inina'ic:: CtTiccr, Swaast n Street.
R EN M A R K *_ South Australia.
ADELA I DE Cavendish Chambers, Grenfell Street.
EN'G LAND J. E Mathew Vincent.(ChiefCommissioner)
Cornwall Buildings, 35 Quern Victoria Sr.
L.ONOON EC
P R INC I: () F WAIJ E s HO TEL,
St. Kilcln,, Victoria.
Within Five Minutes from STATION, and One Minuto from ESPLANADE and BATHS.
MRS. KONG MI.NG ... ... ... Proprietress.
'!C
"/i x
\t^
Troadal & C 9
LEA & PERRINS'
Purchasers should see that the Label on every bottle of the original
WORCESTERSHIRE SAUCE
bears the Signature, thus
c
Ask for Lka A' P burins’ Sauce, and see Name on Wrapper, Label, Bottle and Stopper.
Wholesale and for Export hi/ (he Proprietors, Worcester; Crosse d- JUaekwell, London, sc., SC. J
and ho Grocers and Oilmen throughout the Jl'orld,
Everyone should Read
■DTI* <3
HISTORY of BOTANY BAY,"
By ARTHUR GA.YLL.
Profusely illustrated hy “ The Bulletin’s” well-known Artists, L. Hopkins and Phil May.
Price - ONE SHILLING; per Post, Is. 3d.
May bo had from Agents, or direct from “The Bulletin” Office.
Agents Victorian; A. Benjamin, BIM Little Collins Street East, Melbourne; Tasmanian : Fitzgerald Brothers, George Street,
Launceston; (Queensland: J. 11. Thompson, George Street, Brisbane.


Beale & Oo.’s New Warehouse.
V.
OUR NEW SHOW-ROOMS AND WAREHOUSES;
483 484 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Something New in Sewing Machines !
THE BEALE PATENT MACHINE.
What is there Special about it?
The restless march of invention has enabled us
to bring before the public improvements of im-
mense value, to some short account of which we
beg your attention for a few moments. Our call-
ing is to relieve the home-mother of all that may
weary her in and to make the same
throughout a pleasure. That we have during the
last ten years succeeded in so doing, scores of
thousands will testify. And to-day we are supply-
ing a machine whose range of work is absolutely
complete, transcending the hopes and dreams of
years. The construction and form are such as to
place it altogether above and beyond competition,
and fop the truth of which assertions, as of the
following, we humbly request that your own eyes
may be the judges.
THE IMPROVED HIGH ARM. A great
desideratum with ladies has been the raising of the
arm of the machine, so as to allow the goods to be
sewn to pass freely underneath. This had to be
accomplished without increasing the weight of the
machine. In fact, the Beale runs with wonderful
ease and rapidity. It is almost silent, all clicking
sounds having been obviated. As is well-known,
a good test of the finish of any mechanism is its
silence when in rapid motion.
ALAR GER RANGE OF APPLIANCES is
provided than with any other machine. Samples
of work performed upon these we are prepared at
all times to submit, whilst an elaborate Instruction
Book is supplied, which is alone sufficient to
explain their uses and their applicability to every
requirement
NICKEL-PLATING. —In our climate the
exposed parts of the machine, and the appliances,
need to be protected from rust. We have, at
considerable expense, added a handsomely nickeled
wheel, nickeled plates, screws, appliances, treadle-
bar and cones, heightening the appearance. These
improvements also tend largely to preserve the
parts. This dating is imperishable
A MUCH LARGER DRAWER has taken the
place of the cramped and clumsy contrivance of
former years. When closed it securely fastens the
cover, and is provided with a lock and key.
THE WOODWORK is handsomer than ever,
being always of selected and inlaid Walnut. All
of it has been exposed for weeks in the drying-
room of the Factory to a temperature reaching as
high as 170 degrees ; thus when kept out of damp
and sunshine, it will endure our most trying
dim jit^s
A SELF-THREADING SHUTTLE of solid
steel, saving the trouble of threading by the end
of the cotton. It has an excellent tension, is
strong and simple.
THE BOBIN WINDER is a marvel of in-
genuity, winding and guiding the cotton by itself,
as evenly as upon the real whence it came, and
stopping of its own accord when the bobin is full.
The baby’s tiny clothing, upon which mothers love to
display their choicest handiwork; the boy’s tweed suit,
the drawing-room carpet, may all be stitched hy the won-
derful BEALE Machine. Examples of all kinds of sewing
required in dresses, millinery, underclothing, tailoring and
upholstery will be shown and explained at our offices free
of charge.
With the wonderful BEALE Machine, whether for hand
or foot use, you can hem any width, make double seams
O' fells, braid, st tch with chenille, Berlin wool or gold
cord, and such like for fancy work; you may make a
pretty lace stitch, tuck ever so finely, bind dresses, coats,
or carpets ; sew on trimmings without guiding, make
frilling, ruffling, or niching ; quilt, weave your own braid
with any combination of colours, and stitch it on at the
same time; make thick woollen door mats, embroidered
antimacassars, window curtains, and so forth; you can
easily and rapidly perform the fashionable shirring or
gathering so popular for sleeves, bodies, or skirts of dresses
with an appliance supplied gratis ; lay the small cords in
hoods and stays; do large cording; gather with or without
a band, and generally do all kinds of straight sowing upon
any material whatever. You can darn upon any woven
goods, and do crewel work. You may make button and
eyelet holes, do overcasting, make herring-bone stitch
upon any materials. This work is absolutely unique, and
can only be accomplished upon the BEALE Patent
Machine.
Any of these performances will be show at our shops
at any time. The BEALE Patent makes a lock-stitch
which cannot ravel, yet hy a momentary alteration the
sewing can be done so as to rip from end to end if desired.
Th s peculiarity is sometimes useful when children's clothes
’'re intended to be altered.
, We have a special word for husbands: When the day’s
cosiness is over, and the evening meal is finished, tne
wife—and perhaps the sister or daughter--sits down to her
sewing. With her hands alone she cannot, as aforesaid,
do anything like the whole of the work required. In a
corner of the room is perhaps an old-fashioned machine,
with which she may, by hard driving, occasionally stitch,
with a noise like a sausage-machine, a simple straight
seam ; but that is no great help. She ought to be able to
do ALL the work with it, short of stitching on buttons,
which is a trifle. And we have known some instances
Where the lady of the house is anxious to obtain a first-
class machine, that which will be the greatest of all helps
but the husband demurs on the score of expense.
Why, It is the only article of the household furnishing
which will ever return you any part of the cost ! If the
lady will use it, it MUST earn far more tlvan the holf-a-
erown a week necessary to purchase it. On one little
garment she will save that sum, so that in addition to in-
creased comfort your household expenses will not be en-
' kut ought to be diminished, by the possession of a
BEALE PATENT MACHINE. How often do we waste
money upon really uswless knick-knacks, or upon need-
lessly expensive articles awl indulgences? The Machine
should far more than pay for itself during the time you
are clearing it off, and it will then heeonic your own, earn-
mg or saving money os before, ks ft not fairly to be
called a PROFITABLE INVESTMENT?
Cash or Easy Terms. Price Lists and Samples
Eire hy Post.
Beale & Company,
482 4. 484 GEORGE STREET. SYDNEY
Or from our Branches and Travellers everywhere.
Business Announcements.
>7
\
N
ď
See Signature in
Blue Ink across
the Label thus:—
9
9
EXTRACT
XTSE
OF MEAT
for Beef Tea, Soups and Entrees
Anglo Scandinavian
Acknowledged
The Best
ALLAN A. MARSHALL & CO.,
Enqinkbrs, CopphrsmitiivS, Brass and Bku, Founders,
Finishers, Plumbers, Ship & General Smiths,
Oasfittkrs, Art & Mrdi*v al Mktal Worker
KOI.I KK fck ITKS (any make) witb lI K ASS or WOODEN WHEELS.
Voritv’s Gas Fires, Heaters and Ventilate at greatly Reduced Prices—ll,ooo Fires already in u«e
Importers and Manufacturers of Diving Goar, Yacht and Boat Work of every description in
Iron or Brass, Ships’ Single and Double Action Valve Closets, Fire Hydrants, Hose and all appliance
Bon Accord Works, O Macquarie Place, Sydney.
Business Announcements.
BOOK of HATURE and Illustrated
Matrimonial Guide.—
ture and uses of the organs of life and generation in man
and woman, intended especially for the married, or those
intending to marry, and who conscientiously and honestly
desire to inform themselves upon the intent and nature
of marriage and its duties, to which is added A COMPLETE
MEDICAL TREATISE upon all diseases of the generative
organs, whether resulting from infection or sexual excesses
and abuse, with much other valuable and highly important
information, illustrated with more than fifty engravings,
by M. Lafayette Byrn, M.D. Price 3s. 6d., post 4s.
The Fruits of Philosophy or Private Companion for
Married People, post Is. 2d. Mrs. Besant’s Law of Popula-
tion, Is., post Is. 2d. Wonderful Song Book, extra large.
Is. 6d. Decameron Boccaccio, 2s. Aristotle, complete,
3s. 6d., post 4s. Maria Monk, Is. 6d., post Is. 9d. New
complete Fortune Teller, 2s.
“The Matron’s Manual ot Midwifery,” the book every
married woman needs ; price 75., posted 7s. 6d.
“Nigger Stump Speeches and Comic Pattern,” price 6d.
“The Male Generative Organs,” their use and abuse
with many illustrations and coloured plates; price 75.,
post 7s. 6d.
The arts of Boxing, Swimming and Gymnastics made
easy, enabling any one to become an expert Boxer and
Athlete, illustrated with fifty engravings, price Is., post
free. Agent for London Reynolds, Referee, Dispatch,
Dublin Freeman, Glasgow Mail. Advanced, and Republican
literature on sale.
Sir Robert Bear,
Radical Book Stores,
16J* PARK STREET, SYDNEY.
EuCALYPTE OILSa.
A'
r
Victory Ointments
THE TREE OF LIFE.
mUS&ti-m-
The only pnre Eucalypte In the World.
AWARDED Gold Medal Adelaide Jubilee
Exhibition. First Prize Great Centennial
Exhibition, Sydney. The only known CURE for
Asthma, Bronchitis, Consumption, Pleurisy,
Colds, Coughs, and all affections of the Chest and
Lungs; also, for Gout, Rheumatism, Sciatica,
etc. Our VICTORY OINTMENT stands with-
out a rival for Bad Legs, Bad Breasts, Cancers,
Tumours, and skin diseases of all kinds. Also,
manufacturers of the Eucalypte Pills, Eucalypte
Bair Restorer, Eucalypte Soap, and our world-
famed Eucalypte Honey is the best preparation
before the public for young Children and aged
people. Also, makers of the Eucalypte Lozenges
for the Voice. Manufactory—Cootamundra.
Sydney Wholesale Depot —251 Elizabeth Street
Posted to any part of the Colonies. Sold Every-
where. Beware of Imitations.
CARLSBAD
NATURAL MINERAL WATERS
are now imported in bottles and used in treat-
ment of CHRONIC GASTRIC CATARRH, HYPER-
tEMIA of the LIVER, GALL STONES, CHRONIC
CONSTIPATION, DIABETES, RENAL CALCULI,
GOUT, and diseases of the spleen arising from
residence in the tropics or malarious districts.
THE NATURAL
CARLSBAD SPRUDEL - SALT
In small and frequent doses is an efficient
DIURETIC,but as an APERIENT it should be taken
BEFORE BREAKFAST, In doses of from 1 to 2 tea-
apoonfuls, dissolved In water. To increase the
APERIENT action of the Carlsbad Mineral Water,
a teaspoonful of the Salt, previously dissolved
in water should be added.
SOLE CONSIGNEES for the U.K. and the Colonies
INGRAM St ROYLE, 82, Farringdon St., London,
And ef all Chemists throughout the World.
The Natural Mineral Waters of
{STATE
m
m y M
m M
n « &H !*
m
7’-,
m
!towss.«3a£ii
SPRINGS.)
QRANOE-GRILLE.—For Affections of the
Liver, Biliary Organs, &c.
CELESTINS. —For the Kidneys, Gravel, Gout
Rheumatism, Diabetes, &c.
HOPITAL. — For Stomach Complaints.
HAUTERIYE, —An excellent Table Water.
OF ALL CHEMISTS IN AUSTRALASIA.
A. BOWMAN’S
LONDON MADE
Porpoise Hide Boots
Are Reduced from 30s. to 21s.
249 PITT ST., SYDNEY, Near Tattersall’s
Porpoise Hide Wears Twice as Long
as any other Leather.
They are noted all over London,
Birmingham and Liverpool.
London Faslnonß,
AND
Fresh Goods Every Fortnight.
Trade Supplied Wholesale at a Great Advantage.


•Will be PublialiedL Shortly,
“ A GOLDEN SHANTY:
Australian Tales and Sketches in Prose and Verse
By ‘Bulletin.’ Writers.”
A Selection from the brightest of the original literary matter which has made The Bulletin world-famous. Price, Is. ;if posted, 3d. extra,
Public Companies.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA.
P
THE COMING COLONY!
Everyone should Invest a Few Pounds in Land
in
PBR.I'XX,
Tub CAPITAL CITY OF WESTERN AUSTRALIA.
Compared with other Australian Cities the Price
is Very Low.
.
The Coal, Gold and Tin Mines are attracting
much enterprise and capital to the Colony.
CITY BUILDING ALLOTMENTS,
From £1 per Foot.
BUILDING SITES adjoining the CITY
From £IU Each.
Small Deposit. Easy Terms. Discount for Cash.
Each Lot guaranteed good Building Land.
Land in Perth will increase greatly in value during
the next few years.
INQUIRY COSTS NOTHING.
Pamphlets, Marked Plans, and full information
posted to any address on application to
The Intercolonial Investment Co., Limits!
96 Bathurst Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
W. J. DOUGLAS, Manager.
-TUB-
FEDERAL REVERSIONARY INVESTMENT
AND
FINANCIAL COMPANY, LIMITED.
( Incorporated Under Companies Act, 187 U
CAPITAL ~ .. £200,000.
Sydney Office: .... 301 PITT STREET^
A GENCIES in London and throughout Australia.
■cA- immediate advances granted. Bills discounted daily.
Communications from the country promptly attended to.
The following are the rates of interest allowed on Fixed
Deposits:—3 years, 10 per cent. ; 12 months, 9 per cent. ;
6 months, 8 per cent.; 3 months, 7 per cent. By order
of the Board of Directors.
A. W. Miller, Manager
=CLYDE=
SMELTING, CRUSHING and MAIION
WORKS,
CLYDE, near GRANVILLE,
New South Wales.
Lead and Silver Ores,
ALSO,
Grold Concentrates,
Purchased in any quantity.
Miners and others are invited to send Small or
Large Parcels of Ore to the above Works, which,
on being assayed, Cash Returns will be at once
remitted.
Tariff of Charges forwarded on application to
the Secretary at the Works, Clyde.
The British and New South Wales Investment
and Financial €o., Limited.
Incorporated under the Companies’ Act, 1874.
Capital, £250,000.
Stdskt Omen: 240 PITT STREET.
I JILLS DISCOUNTED and Immediate Advances granted
J) Daily. Country communications promptly attended
to. Tha following Kates of Interest are allowed for Fixed
Deposits:—
3 Year's.... .... 10 par cent.
12 Months 9 per cant.
6 Months « per
3 Months 7 per cant.
With a Guaranteed Bonus on RonswaJs of Twelve Months
and over.
By ordar ol the Board.
W. M’DONALD, Manager.
Business Announcements.
liMjpoirljSLiii't KTotice.
ANDREW KING & CO.,
Wholesale Soft Goods Importers and Warehousemen,
FLINDERS STREET, MELBOURNE,
Opposite H*>lison*s Bay Railway Station.
As announced, this old-established Wholesale Warehouse will be shortly thrown open to the
general public as the
Modern Family Warohouse.
It is the intention of Andrew King- & Co to secure the cpnfidence of the>pubhc*by selling
their goods at such prices, and by giving such value, that the goods wid be their best medium
a i
there are no exaggerated charges added to the wholesale prices to the.public being supp le
in every department of drapery on the basi- of “ IS a, nuiac t u r e r s Lost.
Andrew King- & C >. are enabled to offer their present extensive stock of general drapery at
such prices as must command the confidence of all who appreciate good value.
THE STOCK WILL BE FOUND TO CONTAIN
Manchester Goods (All Classes), Dress Goods,
Silks, Fancy Goods, Ribbons, Straws, &c-,
Woollens, Ready-Made Clothing,
Hosiery, Underclothing, Umbrellas, Haberdashery,
Carpets, Rugs, Mats, Linoleums, Floorcloths, &c., &0., &c-
Further Particulars at a Later Date.
andrewlEng & CO.,
WHOLESALE IMPORTERS and SOFT GOODS WAREHOUSEMEN.
THE MODERN FAMILY WAREHOUSE.
—THE—
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL
FIRE
Insurance Society.
Established ... ... 1872.
Eonuaea
OF
20 per cent. Pali Annually
since 1873.
Head Office
—THE
Oldest Mutual Fire Office
in Australia.
Claims promptly and liberally
settled. Fifteen days’ grace
allowed for Renewal of Policies.
Lowest Current Rates charged.
Hon. George Thornton , M.L.C.,
Chairman.
Head Office:
Corner Pitt Si King Streets,
SYDNEY.
Walter Church ... Manager.
THE
Wolseley Sheep- Machine.
PASTORALISTS are notified that, to avoid disappointment,
no time should be lost in Booking Orders for next Senson.
Agents : J. M. C3r IS 13 ID S B <& C 0.,
19 PHILLIP STREET, SYDNEY.
Palls B* ll ** l2 Family Ho tel -
Falls Bridge, Melbourne.
%
This magnificent Hotel, containing 50 Double
and Single Rooms, is splendidly furnished and
perfectly ventilated.
Sot and Cold Plunge and Shower Baths.
Mleetria Bell*. Tslspuom 1217.
Term* Strictly Moderate.
BiUUtrds, ibc.
j. H. DUKHANT Manager,
late of the South Australian Chib Hotel, Adelaide.
THE GEORGE HOTEL
(apposite Railtoay Station, near Baths),
St. Kilda, Victoria.
First-class Family & Commercial Hotel.
gB For particulars, apply to
F. WI3MDPOLB,
PROPRIETOR.
Medical.
FULVERMACHER’S WORLD"
PARTED GALVANIC BELTS
FOR THE CURE OP
Nervous Exhaustion and Debility, Sciatica,
Lumbago, Rheumatism, &e.,
HAVE received Testimonials from Three
Physicians to Her Majesty the Queen and
the Leading Physicians of many London Hospi-
tals, including over Forty Members of the Royal
College of Physicians of London.
For full Price-list and particulars, see new pam-
phlet “Galvanism: Nature’s Chief Restorer of
Impaired Vital Energy.” Pamphlets Free.
Sole Agents for N.S.W.,
FROST
ELECTRICIANS,
474 & 587 George Street, Sydney.
Sole Agents for Victoria;
ALLISON BROS., 477 Collins-strbet West, Melbourne.
Business Announcements.
-AUSTRALIAN—
Boiler Blour and Crain Stored,
GRANVILLE, N.S.W.
Sydney Office : - 173 CLARENCE STREET
• (near King Street).
Brunton’s Patent Roller Flour
—AWARDED —
The Highest Order of Merit at every Competition,
AND
“Special Recommendation” of the Jurors of the
Melbourne International Centennial Exhibition,
1888-89.
UMBRELLAS
RE-COVER*, a
STUDY ECONOMY
and
Have your Umbrella Frames
Re-Covered, and your
Parasols Re-Lined and made
Egual to New, at
J . SULLIV AN ’S,
541 George Street,
Brickfikld Hill, Sydney,
between
Liverpool A Bathurst Sts ,
Parasols made to match Cos-
tumes. Repairs neatly done.
PAPER-HANGINGS
Oils,Colour 8 * Paints.
I WALLPAPERS From
W3L
đ
webem
m
BathurstSt
*77/// au/jxjfyg
Tliomas Ross,
TOBACCO & CIGAR IMPORTER,
27 HUNTER STREET. SYDNEY,
(Corner of Pitt Street.)
A la.-ge stock of Genuine ESnvaHAnli Cigar*, of the
choicest Brands to select from.
Sole Importer of lire Celebrated " Fl«r «1«* Ctouilo ”
Brand of Cigars and •• Umpire Cigareltei.”
The AUSTRALIAN MERCANTILE LOAN and
GAURANTEE COMPANY, Limited.
Head Office—
Sydney: Corner of Market Sc York Streets.
Melbourne Branch: 283 Collins-street
Brisbane Branch: Corner Edward and Elizabeth Streets.
Newcastle Branch: 87 Hunter Street.
The Company grant immediate advances upon Deeds of
Land, Bills of Lading, Merchandise, Storage and Bond
Certificates, and all classes of mercantile and other approved
securities, for fixed terms or repayable by instalments.
A. MILLER, Acting-Manager.
Sydney Canister Works,
COLLINS STREET, SURRY HILLS,
OFF CROWN STRJUiT.
Manufacturers of all kinds of Tinsfor Confectioners*
Tea Merchants, Biscuit Makers, &c., also all kind*
of Tins, round and imiare, for Pepper, Spice and
Baking Powder, made by improved machinery.
Tri.a/1 Solicited.
the storet catering company, ltd
(Late Chxnsler’s Cafe)
WISH their former Patrons
their now msino a trial.
175 Pitt Street,
and tbs Public Generally to know that their Saloons l«ve
Sydney,
been EsTmsLi lUouganisiid, and shall be glad if they will give
JAMES 0- MARQUAND, Manner-


The Bulletin
Vol. ll- KTo, 521.
SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 8, 1890.
Price, 6d.
V tlsy
■ — 4 —
FITZGIBBON.


The Bulletin
the National Australian Newspaper.
“ Australia for the Australians.”
Proprietors : BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO.,
Limited,
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 24 Pitt-street, Sydney, Neay South Wales.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(payable in advance, only).
Per Annum ... ... ••• ••• £lO 0
Half-yearly 0 1.2 6
Quarterly ‘ 0 6 G
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Macleod, Managing Director.
Literary Communications to be addressed to J. F.
Archibald.
The Editor will carefully read and acknowledge in Ins
“Correspondence ” column all contributions submitted -
whether in the form of Political, Social, or other Articles,
Verse, Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in
length, or say 3000 words, are specially acceptable),
'Paragraphs, Letters, or Nexcspaper-Clippings. A,,
communications will be regarded as strictly confidential.
“ The Bulletin” xvill return all xmavailablc MSS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But tea
desire those sending MSS. to distinctly xaideistand that
xve are not responsible for the preservation or transmission
of such MSS.
NOTICE.
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office T wenty Shillings
sterling—which yon may pay by Post Office Order, One
Pound Note, or Stamps of any Australian colony—xjoxi
can have The Bulletin' posted regularly to you every week
for a year.
This offer is not open to residents of Sydney. In that
city The Bulletin is not delivered by mail, but is entirely
in the hands of our carriers, xsith whom xve do not xcish
to interfere.
SATURDAY. FEBRUARY 8, 1800.
"The Makers of Nations!”
The Australian nation is coming, doubtless ;
but whether if come in a century, or in ten,
may depend very much upon tfie trend of
petty parochial politics during the next feAV
months. We have not yet reached the
border-ridge which divides the high-falutin
phantasmata of youth and inexperience
from the ideal table-land of earnest and
matured manhood. We are anxious to
“enthuse,” and our anxiety seeks a re-
fuge in every plausible, and even in
every possible avenue legitimate or
illegitimate; genuine or spurious. We are
more easily wrought upon than any people
in modern times. We expend vitality in
the most absurd and ridiculous fashion ;
upon the most undeserving and childish
objects. We erect statues to Wallace, the
hero of Scotland ; to Cordon, the Christian
Bashi-bazouk ; to Albert Wettin, avlio was
nothing ; to Queen Victoria, avlio. to us, at
least, is less ; to anything and anybody avc
can capture during a fib of sporadic frenzy,
and Avhose counterfeit presentment avo can
torture into metal or marble. We
seize upon any pretext for a demonstra-
tion, and if the Aveather be fine and
the crowd multitudinous, any one is
as much a “success ” as any of the others :
the Melbourne Cup, the departure of
troops to the Soudan foray, the burial of
Searle or of Dallev, Eight Hours’ Demon-
stration Day, the return from Europe of Mr.
Beach, the Dapto blacksmith ; the arrival
of Hopetoun, or any similar person, are all
events of correlative importance—not one
overtops the rest in the estimation of the
public ; cadi is a “ slioav,” an opportunity
to gush, to orate, to posture, to sing “ Cod
Save the Queen,” and get rid of a portion of
that extraordinary exuberance which pro-
claims the child and advertises an infantile
stage in his mental development.
# # *
Fortnnatuly for us, a great deal of our
legislative activity partakes also of this
sporadic character— avc have placed upon the
statute-books of the various provinces of
Australia, laws framed in the interests of
human progress and of human liberty, which
are but wild visions of the future to many of
the most civilised and progressive States of
Europe Factories-and-Shops Bills, Eight-
Hour-Labour enactments, Vote-by- Ballot
lead, in Australia, the legislation of America ;
yet this phrenetic search for the employ-
ment of surplus energy is a source of weak-
ness to us, quite as much as it is a source of
strength. We add to it also the unwisdom
of desiring to be “thought” smart, clever,
progressive, enterprising, by the old-estab-
lished countries. We do not care to do that
ahvays which must tend only to our future
good—we very frequently seek only a news-
paper encomium from across the Atlantic, a
cable eulogy from a Rosebery, a flattering
mention in the pages of a travel-book. We
degenerate into manufacturers of mellifluous
drivel, into touters after slobbery commend-
ation from the professional complimenters,
accredited by fashion, and marked Avith the
imprimatur of rank, or of even notoriety.
# * &
Young Australia has, as yet, no history,
no past, no traditions, no ideals. He clutches
greedily at anything which he is told is
heroic. His very readiness to worship
images of mud gilt over, to mix Avith the
geophagists as Avith the prophets, to grovel
before dirt-eaters Avhom he imagines to be
gods, is a splendid trait in his character. It
at least gives assurance of something Avhicli
the modern American lacks, but which he
had when he fought at Gettysburg close on
thirty years ago. As among the most earnest
of those avlio claim to be Australians of
the new era, we Avould not Avish to see this
fine enthusiasm lost to our nascent nation—
we would, hoAvever, consecrate it to nobler
shrines than to those before which it is at pre-
sent wasted. To-day it is prostituted to the
needs of the political adventurer, the profes-
‘ sional Avaster of national energy, the huck-
ster of ready-made opinions, the manipulator
of caucuses, the quack, and the charlatan.
To-day it is being employed to rivet closer
those bonds, to forge upon our limbs the
more effectually those fetters Avhich haA r e
hitherto hampered our progress ; Avhich, if
not at once struck off, may make that pro-
gress well-nigh impossible.
# # #
A hundred years ago landed at DaAA r es’
Point, Sydney, a little band of officers. They
were the keepers of convicts—gaolers, Avar-
ders, turnkeys in epaulettes, gentlemen
hangmen who wore gilt buttons and carried
bis majesty’s commission. By-and-bye, to
make the pretty system work more easily—
to hang, in fact, Avith greater expedition, to
flog Avith more security, a special corps \\ r as
appointed for service in Nbav South Wales.
These were called “soldiers,” but called
“ soldiers ” only by courtesy. They Avore
military uniforms ; they carried sabres of
the regulation pattern ; but the insignia of
their ghastly office Avould have been better
imaged forth by cat and triangle and noose
and gibbet-beam. They vanished at length,
like the ghouls they were, among the grisly
shadows that hovered for years above the
cradle of civilisation in the
South. But, like many other evil things,
although they Avere lost to sight they con-
tinued to “ flap from out their condor Avings
invisible avoc.” The Now South Wales
Corps ceased to live as a body ; as a spirit it
lives and breathes and influences us to-day,
in our penal codes, in our social functions,
in our red-tape officialdom ; in the stolid
apathy of a distant Colonial Office, in our
hangman, and in our judge. The officers of
the New South Wales Corps Avere the
“ Makers of Nations.”
# , # *
At this present moment the Ncav South
Wales Corps is potent in our midst. With a
Avonderful adaptability to the needs of to-
day, it seeks to realise federation —of an
Imperial brand truly, but still federation.
It inspires alleged Australian natives to sue
at the feet of the juvenile Hopetoun for his
distinguished “patronage it journeys with
much pain and tribulation to London in
order to leave serf-like foot-prints on the
linoleum of Buckingham Palace ; it dances
humble attendance on the coronet-em-
broidered skirts of the “distinguished”
visitor. Show it a uniform, the buttons of
Avliich hear the imprint of a monarch’s
thumb, and it prostrates itself in humblest
abasement, wallows witli gusto in the slime
of its own toady-like humility, and grumbles
that it is not more viscid, more nauseous,
more malodorous. The New South Wales
Corps is always anxious to slioav the magni-
tude of its faith. It flourishes, too, with
great luxuriance amongst the official classes
and their parasites ; it attains rank growth
in the editorial sancta of the daily press ; in
the Church its Podsnapian growth has dis-
placed the lectern ; all the Avell-to-do, all
the eminently respected and respectable,
the Bar and the Bench, politicians of all
shades and sizes, and most old women whose
great-grandfathers secured Crown grants
have sworn to stand by it to the death. It
is universally recognised as the “perfectly
right and proper thing,” and anybody Avho
has a word to say against it had better buy
a stout overcoat, for “society” Avill send
him out to cool his courage and the ardour
of his imagination in the rain. Yet Young
Australia does not believe in the New South
Wales Corps. He hates the spirit that
animated our past. He cannot credit the
assertion that those officers who landed at
Dawes’ Point, Sydney, a little over a hundred
years ago, were the “ Makers of Nations.”
# # •
In a singular tone of rhapsody the Sydney
Morning Herald, in a leader devoted to the
Mayoral banquet on Anniversary Day, gloats
over the uniforms of titled personages and
volunteer officers there present ; it gushes
amorously about the glinting of medals, the
colour of a ribbon, the flashing of “distin-
guished ” orders ; it reclothes the untailored
commonplace souls of nononties, and
maunders unctuously anent the pretty effect
of nicely-grouped costumes Avith all the un-
intelligent inconsequence of a boarding-
school hud’s fashion-manual, and the
lackadaisical gush of the lady-writer for the
penny press. The S.M. Herald does
Young Australia yeoman’s service in this.
It is good to know the evil thing oven from
the lips of a partisan. Here, for the
Democracy, is well-painted that which is
opposed to it. Our interests, our aspira-
tions, our hopes, exclude orders, ribbons,
uniforms, epaulettes, wigs, badges, tassels, un-
meaning prefixes, dismembered alphabets.
We have learnt enough from the past to
know all that flashes and glints and sparkles
at banquets and levees and “social func-
tions ” generally carries no hope of the future
for us. Rather does it betray the design of
the enemy masquerading in specious finery.
The sheen of the serpent’s scale is an
earnest of the poison-fang. The S.M.
Herald, however, is too terribly immersed
in the leaden atmosphere of its own
respectable dullness, to know that it was so
eloquently characterising that insidious and
ever-present Imperial spirit—the spirit of
the dead New South Wales Corps —in the
gently-gurgling drivel of its recent leader,
and it therefore may be fairly entitled to
the pardon ever extended to ignorance. One
there was present at the -Mayoral banquet
who knew what he was about, and to him no
pardon can be extended. The bebaubledSir
Henry Parkes, G.C.M.G., in a laboriously
eloquent apostrophe of the spirit of the New
South Wales Corps, composed partly of
vague generalities and partly of post-prandial
compliment, glowered with an oozy brand of
verbal benevolence upon the uniforms and
the ribbons, the insignia and the epaulettes,
the well-pomaded, well-known crania and
fashionable shirt-fronts of parasites and
nobodies—all engaged in doing their little
level-best to hand down to posterity uncon-
taminated the spirit of the New South
Wales Corps—and, moved by the warm
atmosphere and the potent caloric of the
rich viands, he saluted them ecstatically as
the “ Makei’s of Nations.”
# # #
These ! These, the builders-up of our
future ! These the mighty architects, the
heaven-sent workers I These, the “ makers
of nations.” The idea is appalling 1 The
history of past ages is the record of the lives
of great men. Every monument is a tomb
whose epitaph names an epoch—a tomb built
of stones flung at some maker of a nation ;
a tomb which marks a place in the great
waste of time where once a hero died. The
makers of nations ! These were generally
poor, despised madmen, cranks, men of de-
voted lives, tremendous aspirations, of strong
wills ; men firm, determined, iron-like. We
Avill not insult the past by instituting a com-
parison between the “makers of nations”
and the nonentities, the toadies, the political
harpies, the silly albeit well-meaning and
no-meaning nobodies that gather around the
banqueting-board of a civic functionary once
a year to eat truffles and to talk drivel.
* * *
Let it pass! The whole of Parkes’
Federation scheme is the baseless vision of a
political adventurer Avho trades off the dreams
of his second childhood upon the ill-guided
enthusiasm of the youth of a new move-
ment, and who grabs at votes through
the medium of a spurious romance. Let it
pass ! Australia is, perhaps, not yet ripe
for Federation. Of this, at least, be sure :
the continuation of the present state of semi-
independence enjoyed by the Australias, is
infinitely better than anything founded on
an Imperial model, than anything copied
from a Canadian Dominion scheme of cut-
and-dried application. The Republic will
not spoil for a season, and Liberty will not
sour by keeping. We are now at least free.
To-rnorroAV Parkes’ shackles may, Avith the
best possible intentions, be riveted on Aus-
tralia’s limbs ; it is better to wait than to be
sorry. When the Republic comes it will
bring with it Patriots—with their advent
Australia will be safe from the spirit of
the New South Wales Corps and the self-
elected banqueters Avhom Parkes styled the
“Makers ot Nations.”
The Toleration of Adverse Opinion.
“ If two religious sects each believe that the truth resides
in themselves, and that the faith of the other is a lie,
they will preach their doctrines in the hope of converting
their brethren to the truth, and if false doctrines are
taught to the inexperienced sons of the Church who
tread in the ways of truth, she cannot hut burn the books
and banish the men who seduce her sons. . . . In
the time of Alexis Michaelovitch, men were burnt at
the stake ; in other words, the severest punishment of the
time was applied, and in our days also, the severest
punishment is applied. . .
So says Lyof Tolstoi in “My Confession,” and
so must say all intelligent men of this day.
# * , #
The word “ Intolerance ” has a gross sound
to our ears, yet it is quite impossible to dis-
associate it from a sincere and active faith.
Toleration may and does obtain in practice,
simply because men are, for the most part,
more liberal, if not better, than their beliefs;
but assuming that certain doctrines are true and
that the belief and practice of such doctrines are
necessary for the welfare of mankind, it is difficult
to understand how the toleration of antagonistic
opinion can be logically pennitted. “ Out of evil,
evil flourishes,” and where there exists the power
to repress the public profession of hostility to our
belief or the communication of false doctrine, not
to do so is to acquiesce in that hostility. Granted
our belief is material to our welfare, we must, by
reason of our obligation to that belief, lie prepared
to do battle on its behalf, and, as good soldiers,
carry on the war into the territory of the enemy.
* * »
The memory of the torturers and inquisitors of
otherdaysstinks in our nostrils, but, after all, theob.
jects they had in view, if not their methods, showed
their keen appreciation and just adherence to
the logical position which their faith required them
to take up. This strict adherence has made th«
persecutors of every age, from Tokquemada to the
New England Puritans, and from these down tu
the sectary of to-day, who would shut out all who
differ from him in opinion from political power
and employment. Certainly there is a difference
between those who may be justly ranged under
the list of persedutors, but only one of degree ; in-
deed, men like Tokqdemada had the justification
of knowing that their persecution would be success-
ful, whereas the modern sectary has every reason
to think that his intolerance will recoil on him-
self. But the fact of intolerance being the logical
outcome of religious belief proves little unless it can
canbeshown to be morally justifiable. A well-known
writer, W. H. Mallock, has argued at length on the
subject, and certainly what he has advanced is
worthy of due consideration. “No matter, ’’says this
writer, ‘ ‘ what the creed be of the nation we are con-
sidering, let the nation be but convinced of the
truth and importance of it, and they will perse-
cute for heresy as s'urely as they will persecute for
theft. An officer is liable to punishment who
wrecks the ship he is entrusted with. A quack
would be equally liable who forces on the ship of
the soul a falsified nautical almanac. In the eye
of a nation that believes that a man’s spiritual
welfare is, at any rate, of equal importance with
his natural welfare, and that the condition of
both are equally certain, persecution is not
a thing apart. It stands on the same basis as
ordinary State regulations or with the awarding
of ordinary criminal punishments.” As regards
nations there can be no doubt that Mr. Mal-
lock’s words were strictly true—and whether the
logic which proves the necessity of intolerance be
really sound or not, it has practically guided man-
kind wherever the conditions, which seemed to
warrant intolerance, have existed—indeed, fre-
quently without the existence of such conditions
at all.
# * #
Toleration, as we know it, is no new principle.
It was one of the broad marks which indicated the
natural fitness of the ancient Romans for Imperial
sway, that almost every description of belief found
a shelter under their liberal polity. In their case
tolerance could not be imputed as a virtue or
traced to any moral feeling, but rather to indiffer-
ence to all forms of worship that were not aggres-
sive. Persecution and intolerance came in with
Christianity, but against it, since alone of the
beliefs of the time, it was at war with the others
and sought their subversion. And when the Cross
triumphed the victors lost little time in com-
pelling the pagans to submit to the new faith.
The history of Christianity since its establishment
as the dominant religion of Europe, has been
marked by intolerance of unbelief, not because
the genius of its divine founder’s teaching was
intolerant, but because the existence of Christianity
as a religion was jeopardised by unbelief or error.
The case of individuals is not less affected by the
argument than that of communities. A man
who is tolerant of what he deems error, is,
by the very act of tolerance, lukewarm in
the cause of truth—he admits the practice of
what may, in the end, drive out truth as he knows
it. This is really the logical position of tolerant
Christians. This tenderness towards error—this
apology for unbelief —will have a natural outcome
in fhe persuasion that a knowledge of truth is not
essential, for it is a confession that rationalism is
as good a position as Christianity. Keble’s
beautiful lines on the Gunpowder Treason, and in
allusion to the Catholic Church —
And, oh ! by all the pangs and fears
Fraternal spirits know,
When for an elder sister’s shame, the tears
Of anguish flow.
Speak gently of our sister’s fall,
Who knows, hut gentle love
May win her at our patient call,
The surer way to prove ;
may be appropriate in the mouth of one who was
already fast hastening towards a participation in
his sister’s shame, but in the mouths of none else.
# * *
The point where tolerance to those who are
radically opposed tons begins, is where enthusiasm
ends, and without enthusiasm, not noeessarily
running riot, but deep and strong, no movement
can gather force, and no faith stand its ground.
If St. Paul had temporised with the Greeks, if
he had carefully sifted what was good from the
mass of evil, if he had sought to distinguish the
wheat from the worthless cockle, his labour would
have been in vain. Such, however, was not his
method. The whole system was condemned, the
good with the bad, and the result is a matter of
history. Impartiality has no place in the day of
battle, “ it is,” says Dr. Woolley, “ not only im-
potent, but less clear-sighted and penetrating
than undistinguishing partizanship. Candour is
sometimes treason against God. Nay, you must
hit out right and left and not spare your friends
themselves if in close proximity to the foe.”
Truly the only successful battle-cry is vac victis.
When the victory is won and strong enthusiasm
has triumphed, and the enemy has surrendered at
discretion, then comes the day of the “ just
rcasoner. ”
* * *
Toleration has become a mere catchword just as
progress or liberty has, meaning nothing definite
to those who use it, but conveying to others the
idea of want of enthusiasm that docs not promise
much for the ultimate success of the cause advo-
cated. It is a peculiar circumstance, of which the
history of Europe offers many examples, that no
nation ever became tolerant until its faith decayed.
No religious country in Europe is now tolerant.
Russia, Spain and Turkey are deeply religious
countries, each in its own way, and any true
liberalism therein existing is confined to sceptics.
Wo blame the Spaniards for their intolerance—
our so doing is absurd, since their intolerance is
but the logical outcome of their position ; if they
are to be blamed, let it be for their religion. The
Russian is, if anything, more religious than the
Spaniard, and, as a consequence, the most violent
outbursts of religious intolerance are not in-
frequent. These remarks are directed not against
Christianity or any other form of religious faith.
Any belief which assumes the position of being
exclusively true, or even of being nearer the
truth than any other, must logically persecute,
after it becomes established. That all such beliefs
have done so is historically true. Every religion
clamours for toleration when in the minority and
persecutes when dominant. Every step in the
direction of toleration is gained only after fierce
struggles. Every free concession of religious
toleration marks a decay in the militant spirit of
the church which makes it, and every successful
effort of propagandism is in a direction adverse to
toleration.
HENRY SIEBEL


“Looking Backward.”
Dear Bulletin, —I am glad to see that Francis
Adams has given a notable shove along to the cir-
culation of Bellamy’s book in Australia by sum-
marising and quoting from it in your columns. It
is a book which should be read by all who are dis-
contented with life as it is now —those who are
not are very few, are becoming fewer, and don’t
matter much. In New Zealand I found the story
in everybody’s hands; here it is practically un-
known as yet. In each of the long-journey trains
there a vendor of literature, who seems to live
somewhere about the coal tender, dominates the
carriages, and wherever a passenger seems inclined
to sleep, obtrudes “The Silence of Dean Mait-
land ” or the “ Mystery of a Hansom Cab ” on his
notice. If this should fail, he returns after a while
with “ Robert Elsmere,” a map of the Hot Lakes
district, and some immoderate recital of the doings of
detectives (from the ranks of whom, it would ap-
pear, the aristocracy is being continual'y re-
cruited). This seller of books is a public ds-
turber and a most persistent wretch who must be
bought off : if he fails to make a sale after half-a-
dozen attacks at intervals of a quarter-of-an-hour,
he stands by the door and fixes on the obdurate
passenger a look of inquiry and woe that fills him
with remorse and banishes slumber for the rest of
the trip. One of these told me that “Looking
Backward ” had a greater sale than any regent
book, and in one carriage I saw five copies
among nine passengers. On shipboard, too,
I found several reading it, and most of
those who were not, had done so. In
America I believe its sale is very much
larger than that of “ Progress and Poverty ” or any
other work dealing with social reform, and cannot
fail to have a great effect. The lesson is obvious
all the time under its dress of fiction, and thousands
upon thousands who would never think of reading
Marx, or George, or Gronlund, or Hyndman, will
get an idea of what they want to do from reading
this hook. I do not doubt that it will count
against industrial slavery as “Uncle Tom’s Cabin”
did against chattel slavery. Personally I do not
think any of the methods by which what is generally
calle I Socialism seeks to reach its end are prac-
ticable, but there is no mistake about the justice of
the end, and books like Bellamy’s willdomore todis-
pel the ignorance and.prejudice that stands in the
road than any solid treatise could do. The time
is at hand when Labour will ask for rights instead
of concessions, as the fate of Bismarck’s anti-
Socialist Bill the other day, the world’s sympathy
with Ireland and the dock slaves, and other signs
show clearly. Tolstoi, Flurschiem, George, Marx,
and a few others are the captains, and Burns,
Bellamy, and such as they, the recruiting-officers
of the army of the future. —Yours, &e.,
J.F.
When the directors of the Newcastle (N.S.W.)
Wallsend Coal Company asked the shareholders
to confirm an annuity they had granted to the
widow of their late manager, Neilson, who had
served them well for inadequate remuneration for
a great many years, one canny shareholder pro-
posed that the grant be subject to being revoted
or revoked by the shareholders every five years.
A man whose characteristic name is Close seconded
the motion. This the shareholders in a company
whose dividend was at the rate of 40 per cent per
annum on the capital thought it prudent to
adopt. They got 50 per cent, the previous half
year, and so felt the necessity for caution in
voting away a farthing per share to Hie widow of
i faithful servant.
<*•
An A.N.A. orator says that if military colleges
were established in Australia, colonial young men
would, in large numbers, adopt the profession of
arms and devote their lives to the defence of the
country in which they were born. The solemn
publieation of such balderdash in our daily papers
is tantamount to an editorial declaration that the
average reader must be a condemned idiot. Aus-
tralia is already burdened with the support of a
number of gaudy objects, who play at sham soldier-
ing from year’s end to year’s end. They are devot-
ing their lives to one long, lazy, degrading “loaf.”
They never expect to get a job, and are only toler-
ated on the assumption that they are sufficiently
patriotic not to wish to get one. Considering the
geographical status of Australia, it is very ques-
tionable whether our handful of unemployed
swashbucklers have claims to be regarded as a
necessary evil, or a justifiable expense, or any-
thing save an appurtenance of Imperialism. In
point of practical uselessness each of our gallant
defenders compares unfavourably with a lunatic
who stops at home, armed with a revolver, on the
off chance of a burglar trying to break in.
+
The Melbourne people have been reading a six-
penny pamphlet, by the Rev. W. Addis (Rev.
Dr. Strong’s colleague at the Australian Church)
on “Miracles,” being a series of sermons preached
on Sunday evenings. This is very daring—indeed
an attack upon the whole system of Miracle, in-
volving the Immaculate Conception and the
Resurrection. Addis is a man of large influence,
but no one attempts to answer him. He goes all
the lengths of Judge Hartley Williams, and it
is remarkable that Chief Justice Higinbotham led
the way with his famous lecture on “Religion and
Science ” in Collins-street Scots Church while
Strong was its pastor, whence his prosecution for
heresy. Mr. Addis points out that up to 150 years
ago, even the Protestant Church held it the height
of blasphemous heterodoxy to affirm that miracles
had ceased with the time of Christ’s apostles.
Strong and Addis are, in fact, Unitarians of the
ultra type, same as Walters. Six months’ life
was given to their Australian Church by the
orthodox, but it claims to be rapidly advancing.
The only fault is that it is too “ toffy,” the work-
ing-man is as much a stranger there as at the
Melbourne- churches of Bevan, Chapman, or
Marshall.
♦
It was wired from Eoo Chow last week that the
last shipment of new season tea had been sent to
Australia and New Zealand, making a total of
21,500,0001 b. for this year. This is 51b. per head
for a year, but Victoria leads the way in tea-
drinking with an annual consumption of 111 b. per
head, while Queensland, New South Wales, and
South Australia respectively put down 91b., 81b.,
and 71b. In Great Britain they only drink about
21b. a head, but, of course, they would like to
drink a good deal more. Americans do not drink
tea to anything like such an extent as Aus-
tralians, or even English. Four millions of Aus-
tralians drink as much as fifteen millions in
the United States, or, in other words, the
Australian demand is one-fourth of the American.
The States with their 60 millions, only imbibe about
80 million lbs. of tea, somewhere near the same
Quantity as the people of Great Britain’ drink.
This is strange and unaccountable, though un-
answerably ' evinced by statistics. If the Theine
alkaloid be pernicious, Victoria must go down
lull, leading New South Wales on the down grade,
for the Australians are far and away the champion
tea-drinkers of this planet.
The Bulletin occasionally fires off the more
or less original epigrammatical truth that,
with few exceptions, the Patriot of to-day was
the Traitor of last week. It is indeed hard to
make any sort of reputation as a Patriot without
first rising against an existing glorious institution
—the “State” or “Crown” for choice —and
giving it what modern masters of literature de-
scribe as “beans.” There is almost invariably
some period, perhaps a long, weary period, of the
Patriot’s career when the Tories of his locality,
the respectable old humbugs in black “diagonal ”
frock coats, call upon the existing Government to
dangle him from the gallows tree. Meanwhile
the equally respectable Daily Press insists upon
the necessity for putting said Patriot down by
magisterial law, or armed force. Leading article
writers never cease from mentioning that his
behaviour is inimical to the welfare of the State
and a menace to society at large, until he gets
on top, from which moment the said jour-
nalistic vehicles of public opinion decide that
the successful individual was always a Patriot
and not the Traitor they made him out to be.
They are more open to conviction (and the pen-
nies of their daily readers) than the respectable
old humbugs, a number of whom still hold on to
the old “ State,” and die in the joyful expectation
that the country is going to Nicodemus. But
the remainder of them change sides with their
“ organs, ” quite contented to crush grumblers at
the newly-established order of things with “Pooh,
pooh ! sir.” They are the commercial common-
sense humbugs, and they allow “sedition” to
change its colour like the chameleon. All of
which is introductory to the bare announcement
that the revolution in Brazil has been followed by
a demonstration of idiots who were “loyalists”
before Dom Pedro packed up his crown (or rather
wanted to pack up that bit of portable property)
and scooted. In the course of demonstrating
these enemies to the month-old Republic went
too far, and - as an evening paper puts the case —
“ 300 of the rebels were shot.” A very few weeks
back these pudding-headed rebels might have died
from natural causes under the style of “loyal
subjects.” Do you notice it ?
From the Natal Witness :
The Drill-shed concert, under the patronage of Governor
and Lady Mitchell (formerly of Fiji) commenced at eight
o’clock, and at a quarter past eight, the vice-regal party
walked in and took their seats in silence, but they had
scarcely sat down when they again took their departure,
much to the apparent discomfiture of the chaplain of the
Drill-shed Church, who hurried after the party to enquire
the reason of so sudden an exit. In reply he was in-
formed, we believe, that the cause ot displeasure was the
fact that the Queen’s Anthem had not been played on the
arrival ot His Excellency’s party. We understand that
Sir Charles is determined to enforce, on such occasions,
the playing or singing of “ Goc save the Queen.” In this
instance the omission, we are informed, was purely inad-
vertent, and we think might have been passed over with-
out any derogation of Imperial or gubernatorial dignity,
but the display of offended majesty over what to most
people appeared a trifle, will not, we think, tend to more
marked recognition in the future. Insistance on outward
recognition will not help to bolster Imperialism up if its
condition is in a stage of senility, especially considering
the elements at work in South-Eastern Africa at the pre-
sent moment.
“Scotty the Wriukler” on the Rabbit
Question— The Rabbit will never go
till Men Inhabit all the Land.
From this time forward, until the N.S.W. Go-
vernment begin to part to the suffering squatter,
there will be in all the country papers and in the
Evening Idiot and Afternoon Longbow,
stories, tall stories of the cony superseding the
snake, yarns which will pale before the impossibi-
lities vented by the perambulant whaler and the
hyperbolical squatter. But I, being pure of heart
and of single mind, am a hairpin of another sort.
I am just about to tell some condensed truth, and
common truth at that. No jokes, I am on the
spot, and you, at least, believe me.
There a»e blacks rabbiting here at a half-
penny a scalp, paying for their own rations. In
one hour-and-a-half 11 aboriginals, including gins
and piccanninies, killed 400 rabbits. Next day
tally was considerably over 1000 for 14 operators.
Their weapons are sticks. No traps, no dogs, no
guns, no picks or spades.
One day a bound ary-rider killed 18 under one
boree-tree, where they had taken shelter. They
would not move out into the sun : thermometer
116 deg. in the shade that day, January 24th, 1890.
The bullock-driver saw rabbits taking shelter on
the shady side of a bullock couchant.
Any traveller can catch a rabbit and some
squatters refuse meat, telling them to catch and
kill their own (of course these are Scotchmen and
Eardowners).
Now, don’t discredit any of the above state-
ments. There is no doubt about their truth.
Years ago I wrote to the Hay papers to state
my views on the Babbit Question. I ended my
portion of the correspondence by the statement
that as there are more brains and money per acre
in Scotland than in Australia, and still they can-
not extirpate the rabbit, so I foresee before me
until too old to walk, or too rich to work, a career
of usefulness as game-destroyer in the Mesopo-
tamia of the Eiverina.
I do not believe that you, dear Bulletin, will
be mean enough to say that I am falsely claiming
to have prophesied the failure of Pasteurage and
the Tintinallogy disease, now that we have seen
the results. You will give me credit for having
stated that nothing can subdue bunny. Like
typhoid, he’ll come again if a seed is left, and
there is only one chance of reducing his ravages to
a minimum— i.e., sub-divide and kill and keep
killing within the sub-divisions. This -employs
labour. The rabbit is not an unmitigated curse.
But don’t let the Government give a red cent or
lend a copper towards it. There are dozens of
capitalists ready to take over the runs, rabbits and
all, if they get a fair tenure. I love to see a
rabbit on a run where the ex-pick-and-,shovel
squatter gives a pannikin of weevily flour to a
traveller at sundown, and it is pleasant to see the
domestic cat sleeping at the mouth of a burrow,
having been turned out to kill two or three hun-
dred a day. Here let me drop a tear over the
departure' of the men who first started the cat-
racket. They were not the “ Are you a shee-
wah?” people, but—gentlemen and men. No
hunger on their stations ; and now, well, now,
a pannikin of dust at six sharp, full-handed, mind
your fires, and don’t attempt to loaf about the
kitchen !
That there is a connection between rabbits and
rations is apparent from this fact. I have this
year visited and worked in two principalities famed
in the Riverina. One has (virtually) no rabbits,
and the other swarms with them.
On the former there is no stint to the men, and
the stranger within the gates may camp a week
and wash his clothes. The sugar is white, vege-
tables unlimited, duff every day, and the day
ends when the work is done.
However, on the rabbit-run, the cursor, dropped
along the road from the out-station towards the
homestead have made ruts on the road. The very
bullocks are mad, and will charge the wavfarer ;
the flour is second clothing and dingy : as an ar-
ticle of food the sugar is useless, but makes a good
vermifuge for dogs and horses; and there are seven
days in the week, each of 24 hours. These re-
marks only apply to the rabbit-infested or upper
portion of the run. At the head station the rab-
bits are fewer, and the cattle and bosses are at
least polite. By the way, there are hardly any
burrs this year. Bad for the whalers. The bush-
fire season has fairly set in. Apropos to nothing.
I wanted a job badly the other day, and,
seeing some graves rooted up by dogs,' snakes,
and rabbits, I offered to do them up at
per tomb. But the manager said they were
all right. The inhabitants had not complained,
and, though they could build a Gothic or Swiss
cMlet for the fowls, they could not afford to waste
time and money on the dead, so I could go to
where I’d meet them, somewhere off the run.
Now these graves are tenanted by relatives of
former owners and faithful servants. The present
proprietors are of an old family, whose arms are
three hods (proper) full of mortar; supporters, a
mattock dexter, a long earth spoon sinister; crest,
an Orangeman rampant; motto, “There’s nothing
like muck.”
SCOTTY THE WRINELEB.
A First Conviction.
Editor Bulletin. Sir, —Some caustic
critic has said : “ There are but two classes in the
world—those in gaol and those who ought to be
there.” Others say “It’s only the fools who are
in ; the clever rogues are still outside.” Outside I
kept for fifty summers and winters in the ups and
downs of this extraordinary half-century—and
then I got into gaol for a year.
* * *
It did not take me long to find out the
N.S.W. system of gaol management. So far as
the warders are concerned it is—“let us alone and
we’ll let you alone, and then we’ll get on very well
together. ” In fact, it is a prisoner’s duty to him-
self to hear and see nothing that goes on while he
is dead to the world. Some, especially persons for
the first time convicted, cannot do this, and, like
young colts, “kick over the traces.” But it’s a
bad “line.” It was, as I have said, my first time
under bolt and bar, and as I am a nervous,
irritable man, confinement for 16 hours a day in a
locked cell almost banished sleep from my eyes.
Strange noises of looks and midnight whisperings
intensified my wakefulness. Female prisoners
were located in the same corridor —adjacent to my
cell—and these could scarcely be in need of the
night warder’s assistance; even if they were, the
matron had the cell-keys, and the warders only
could open the trap in the cell-door —unless they
had duplicate keys. I called the chief warder’s
attention the fact that the noise of looking and
unlocking disturbed my sleep—and I was promptly
rewarded by some days’ “solitary.” You must,
under whatever provocation, never complain about
warders, who are asserted by those in authority
to “ a superior class of men apparently their
superiority as a class lies in their coarseness and
perfect lack of sympathy. As an illustration of
the former ; A party of ladies and gentlemen were
visiting the gaol under special warcters’ guidance.
The gentlemen were interested in the mat-shop,
while the ladies stayed with a warder in the
kitchen. One lady remarked “how fat and well
the prisoners looked.” “So would you, mum, if
you wuz sixteen hours a day lying on yer bhackh
in the cell and had as much hominy in yez,” was
the “ superior ” officer’s reply,
* * *
To return to the Chubb locks on the ladies’
cells. The nightly noises alluded to caused me to
arrive at the conclusion that, so far as imprisoned
women were concerned, the reformatory influence
exercised by the warders didn’t amount to much.
The nightly disturbance continued as long as any
females remained, and it was more noticeable
whenever a female was locked up in a single cell ;
till at last there was but one young woman left (for
six weeks) in gaol.
# # #
This young woman subsequently had a
run at large for six months, and since my dis-
charge I hear she has had a fresh conviction and
that a child has been born to her in the gaol.
Now, where, under the circumstances above
stated, is it reasonable to look for the father of
that child ?
* * *
Anxious to convince myself, and willing
to believe that after all my ears might have played
me false about the locks being tampered with, I
hit on a plan to obtain circumstantial evidence
upon the point. A harmonium used for church
service stood by the girl’s cell-door. It occurred
to me that if her cell-padlock were removed it
would be temporarily placed on the top of the
harmonium. Being a wardsman I had an oppor-
tunity to put some grease on the back of the brass
padlock, where it would not be touched by the
hand in opening ; then I placed on the harmonium
some scarcely perceivable fluff from the coir-mat-
ting underfoot. Aslexpeoted, I found next morning
the fluff attached affectionately to the grease.
That was quite enough for me. When the woman
left I had rest for two months. The female
warder’s occupation was gone, but in order that
her billet should not be an absolute and shameless
sinecure, two female-prisoners were, after a time,
sent up from Darlinghurst. They were very
quiet at first and occupied the same cell.
* # *
This did not suit the young women (nor
the warders either) so they quarrelled and were
locked up and separated —and on the very first night
of their separation the look-noises and whisper-
ings of male voices commenced again. I coughed
and made other signs of wakefulness —but to no
purpose. I was a prisoner.
# * *
All the warders stick to each other
and “ swear solid.” How it edifies prisoners
to see two warders fighting about a woman
in the gaol-yard ! In Parramatta Gaol there
are fifty warders to 300 prisoners. These men
have little or nothing to do, and it is not
wonderful then that they have some most peculiar
ways of amusing themselves.—Yours, Just Out
of Gaol.
Mr. Francis Simpson, late of the N.S.W.
Customs, Albury, has commenced a libel action
against a Sydney evening paper.
Mrs. Bonanza Mackay has been legally
1 ‘ taking it out ” of a Manchester paper, which
stated that she formerly washed the clothes of the
miners employed by her Silver King. The fact
that Mrs. Mackay came into court to prove that
she always was a real lady (who never so much as
washed her own clothes) will set the world wonder-
ing whether she might not have been improved
by graduating at the tub. Juvenal drew no
distinction between real ladies and laundresses
when he wrote “Nothing is more intolerable than
a rich woman. ■’
Twenty supernumerary draughtsmen, most
of them qualified surveyors, have struck work in
Melbourne for £2OO a year (the Government only
offers them £140). Times change. A few years
ago, during the land-rushes, there was hardly a
certificated surveyor in Australia who. if he chose
to work, could not make anything between one
and three thousand a year.
We read a lot about Colonel North, the
Nitrate King. Nitrate of soda is the stuff, other-
wise named caliche, only found in such ah im-
mensely remunerative way in the northern part of
Chili, and there only in a circumscribed area,
resembling a dried-up Dead Sea, a Pampas region.
The nitrate is a mineral, yet composed of mingled
land vegetation and seaweed, dashed by sea-water
in the era when this land was under sea. But
nitrate is never found under 2000 ft. above sea.
The war between -Chili and Peru was over the
nitrate beds. After shovelling off an alluvium
of sand in the desert, you come to a depth of
from 2ft. to 20ft. nitrogenous matter, which is
useless, and has to be pickaxed through to
get to the real treasure. The nitrate is
boiled, when the rubbish sinks to the
bottom, and the valuable article is run off into
coolers. Then it is left to dry. The annual
nitrate export from South America is about half-
a-million tons. It is white, like snow-crystals,
quite dry, and put in sacks like guano or bone-
dust. It is vastly appreciated in Great Britain,
Continent of Europe, and the United States for
manure, and it is also a kind of saltpetre, excellent
for making gunpowder, whence the Chili-Peru-
vian row. The first monster nitrate year was
1884, after which it fell off in 1885 and 1886, so
that people thought the nitrate king would run
down, but it picked up again in 1887. North may
explode just like the Nabob in Daudet’s novel.
Writes a correspondent:—
Vicar - General Fitzpatrick (R. C.), ot Melbourne,
who died last, week at the age of 80 years, devoted
his daily life for the last 40 years to building St.
Patrick’s Cathedral. He saw every stone laid and
knew exactly its cost. He had also probably calculated
how many stones it would take to finish the huge pile,
which stands on the highest point of Melbourne and will,
when finished, be crowned fly a tower and spire 350 feet
high. The old man was great at figures, and united the
Popery and the fiscal to an extent that would drive
Abigail clean mad to contemplate. He invested every
penny he could lay hold of in bluestone for his beloved
hobby. He bought annuities years and years ago and
spent the proceeds in stone. He was a man of stone and
personally a man of straw. The old man’s recreation up
to a week before his death was to ramble round Albert-
street and Grey-street and gaze at the big cathedral and
then take a turn up the belfry stairs and have a run over
the roof. No big man visited the Palace but “ the Dane ”
would have him on the roof of St. Patrick’s before two
days’ had elapsed. Cardinal Moran hadn’t been half-
an-hour in Melbourne ere he w 7 as walking the gutter
on the Cathedral roof ; and Archbishop Vaughan
smoked his first cigar in the Southern capita!
with the Rev. Pitz. in the belfry tower. When,
many years ago, the first contract was put before
Archbishop Goold, he funked, but “John” didn’t, and
affixed his own neat autograph on his personal responsi-
bility. Fifteen years ago, the R.O. clergy of Melbourne
gave him 500 sovs.—which the old man forthwith spent in
bluestone for the Cathedral. Although he had been 53
years a priest, he was never known to preach. Thirty
years ago he went home on a visit to his native village of
Chapelizod, near the Irish capital. The parish priest
wanted some “ stuff” badly for his school, and thought
he’d “star” the illustrious churchman from foreign
parts. He got flaming posters stuck up everywhere an-
nouncing that that “Distinguished Ecclesiastic and
powerful preacher, the Very Rev. John Fitzpatrick,
Doctor of Divinity, and Vicar-General ,of Melbourne,
Australia ” would preach the annual sermon, &0., &c. On
the eventful day an enormous congregation assembled,
but Fitz. didn’t put in an appearance, and the size of the
collection for the school was heart-rending. Half
a century ago, Dr. Fitz. officiated at Parramatta
and at Goulburn (N.S.W.) He came to Sydney
at the request of Dr. Uilathorne, who just previously
had had charge of the continent of Australia, which was
attached to the island of Mauritius, where the bishop
lived ! Nine young clerics came out together in the
same ship. Only one now remains—Archdeacon Rigney,
late of Parramatta. Ten years ago the Pope made Dr.
Fitz. a domestic prelate, but the old man implored every
reporter he came across not to write him down a “ Mon-
signore,” and so the thing was forgotten.
Dear Bulletin, — Let me tell y#u how the
Chinese “locust” is being encourag’ed and sup-
in the Northern Territory to the detriment
of the European settler. The Territory is more
hampered by the Mongols than any other part of
Australia. They have access to every industry,
every trade and calling, and every privilege that
I know of. They are allowed to tender for every
description of contract, whether let by private in-
dividual or by the State, and that being so, the
jobs invariably and inevitably fall into, their
hands. No European tradesman or labourer lias
a show against them. If, by any unexpected
miracle, a European is given a contract, he must
employ them, not only because his price
must be as near as possible to the China-
man’s, but also because, under existing cir-
cumstances, there is nothing to stop him from
engaging the cheapest labour in the market.
In point of numbers the Chinese outnumber ns by
about ten to one. The white miners of the South
will scarcely credit it when I say that on the
whole of our reefs (and they are not few by any
means) there are not to be found 20 Caucasians.
Naturally the companies go for the cheap John to
keep down the pay-sheets, and will continue to do so
until public opinion forces the minds of our
legislators into another channel. These yellow
men cannot be forced to take out miners’ rights
for working alluvial fields. They calmly squat
down and mine wherever they please, and defy
the warden to execute the law as it is laid down
with respect to this default—for they know
that if the warden arrests one he must
arrest perhaps a thousand for the same offence,
and this, with no assistance save that of
two or three troopers, would be impossible.
A couple of dozen would fill our only gaol,
and you bet Johnny knows that. If driven off one
field they would hump their baggage to the next
and begin de novo, and if they turn “rusty” we
have not the force to cope with them. Therefore,
as I say, they only pay for the right to mine when
they wish to protect anything good, and the
authorities here are obliged to wink at this great
injustice to the white man and to our country.
We proudly boast of this being a mining country
of great promise ; yet unless we can drive the
Chinese out and thereby give room for Euro-
peans we might just as well make the Terri-
tory over holus-bolus to the Emperor of China.
The people of the South, where unions and. Euro-
pean associations jealously guard the white man’s
interests, can have no conception of how firm a
hold the Chinese have of the Northern Territory
of South Australia, and I feel perfectly satisfied
that if the condition of affairs up here were as
well known in the southern cities and mining
centres as it deserves to be, there would be
such an outcry raised that our authorities would
soon be forced to yield to the pressure of Aus-
tralians agitating for the possession of Australia.
No wonder you are troubled with “unemployed
agitations ” when Chinese are permitted, to do as
they please in what should be even now one of the
greatest labour-absorbing colonies of the whole
group.—Yours faithfully, G.W.M. Port Darwin,
Jan. 15, 1890.


[?]
840 Macquarie-street North, Sydney, February 5, 1890.
My Dear Moorabinda, —
Until now a trip to Tasmania has been too expensive for
most people ; and so far as the generality of Tasmanians
are concerned, they are poor in cash, and have hitherto
had little encouragement from the steamship owners to
go beyond the limits of the Tight Little Island. Now, how-
ever, all that has been altered. Huddart, Parker & Co.’s
cheap fares have been the key to open the doors of the
island prison this summer for the benefit of the natives
and a tremendous rush of visitors from the mainland -
The latter have proved a gold-mine of the first order to
hotel-keepers, boarding-house people and cabmen through-
out Launceston and Hobart, and so great has been the
influx that sleeping accommodation is scarcely to be go
-for love or money.
Amongst the passengers to Tasmania by the steamer
“Pateena” on a recent trip, was Lady Kintore, wife of
the Governor of South Australia, who, when the steamer
brought up alongside the wharf at Launceston, was
bundled into a cab along with six or seven fellow-passen-
gers (all men, and smoking) and taken round the town
hunting for quarters. When the rest of the cab’s occu-
pants had been stowed away somewhere or other, and he r
ladyship remained on the cabby’s hands, Jehu came round
to the back of the step saying : “ Now, Missus, where will
you go ? There’s a nice quiet hotel I know of, how would
that suit ? You’ll have a job to get in anywhere private.”
Her ladyship named the hotel she desired to be taken to
and the cabby drove her to it. This very off-handed style
of treating vice-royalty did not suit the Tasmanian
Governor, who, when Lady Hopetoun announced her
intention of joining the rush down south, wrote
to the Mayor of Launceston, pointing out how
unceremoniously Lady Kintore had been dealt with.
80, on the arrival of the steamer which conveyed the
t’ountess of Hopetoun, the local Mayor (Mr. Sutton)
turned up at the wharf with his carriage, and saw “Her
Excellency”—as the “right-thinking” papers put it—
comfortably stowed away. With a view of making the
lady acquainted with the lions, he and the Mayoress called
on Lady Hopetoun after lunch and the party started off
for a drive, but, as luck would have it, the first place
visited was the Cataract, in the stream feeding which a
few score nnattired individuals were disporting their
brawny forms. In vain the Mayor averted his devoted
head ; the further the carriage went the worse things got,
*iH at last the despairing Sutton ordered the coachman to
turn for home. Her Ladyship did not show out again
whilst in Launceston, and it appears that bathing in any
place or under any circumstances will now be utterly-
abolished by the indignant Corporation. So far as
receiving governors’ wives goes, Launceston is a dead
failure.
Adelaide people are growling that Lady K. has been
nearly twelve months in the colony and yet has not made
more than six appearances in local society. It is also said
that her early return to Great Britain is due to the fact
that some unsavoury West Enders, travelling incog., are
ilue shortly at Government House.
The marriage of Miss Cox (daughter of that well-
esteemed physician, Dr. Janies Cox) to Lord Bertie, is to
take place on Wednesday, 12th inst., at St. James’,
Sydney. There are to be six bridesmaids, and the out-
wardly hideous old church is to be beautified inwardly
with flowers and foliage.
“ Don’t count your chickens before they're hatched or
make sure of a lord before he’s matched,” is the rhyme
that occurs to one on reading in one of the Sydney
dailies that “ Lord and Lady Bertie leave for England
per Oroya.” These young people are married in
printers ink before the bell, book, and candle ceremonies
have been undergone, and if his lordship should change
his noble mind or the lady transfer her affections, ensu-
ing titular complications would be too harrowing to even
hint at. Besides which, it's an old superstition that
tor a bride to write herself down as Mrs. or Lady Blank
before she is legally qualified to do so is an omen either
that the wedding will not take place or that the results
will he unhappiness. What the effect will be of having
the matrimonial combination pre-submitted by the news-
p ipers superstitious people will shudder to contemplate.
However, let us hope that there’s nothing in omens, and
th it a long and happy wedded life will be the result of
what is obviously a love-match.
Could my ears have deceived me, or did that young
lady, when a gentleman stood on the tail of her gown,
really growl out a big, big D ? No, I think the accent on
the latter part of the word was absolutely unmistakable.
She was an Australian girl ; I don't know if the English
rosebud would be so naughty. The English matron is
remarkably self-possessed, I should imagine, from a speci-
men of her coolness I noticed at a great cricket-match
once, when, the lady’s shoe-tie having come undone,
she ordered her husband to fasten it; when, right in the
midst of the fashionable crowd on the lawn, down on one
knee flopped obedient John Bull, and did as he was told.
This performance was repeated, too, and what made the
little scene more curious was the fact that the foot ex-
tended was neither small nor pretty. The only explana-
tion of the proceeding seemed to be that the lady regarded
us ignorant colonials much as the French countess did her
valet when he assisted at her toilet.
What queer things we mortals be! I heard a lady say
the other day she would rather starve as a music-teacher
than follow such a low occupation as that of a dressmaker
or milliner ! In my humble opinion, the life of a poor
musician whose very heart turns sick at the sight of
Hemy's, and whose blood runs cold at the sound of an
ill-executed scale, can’t begin to compare with that of a
swell dressmaker. True, if one is at the top of the tree in
the musical line it is more bearable. The guinea lesson
of an hour’s duration is easily worried through—twenty
minutes’ chat, twenty minutes’ piano, then another chat
and at the end a couple of pieces of the teacher’s own
composition—for which he gets a big royalty—are handed
to the pupil to just run over before next lesson, and—
there you are, it’s over. But the woman teacher who has
her name to make must give her hour up to the utmost
second for which she gets perhaps two shillings and a
headache. And because this is supposed to be a more
genteel calling it is preferable !
Whilst I was taking afternoon tea in a Sydney cafe
the other day and meditating deeply on the inefficiency
of fine lumps of caf6 loaf-sugar, a nice old lady came in,
sat down at my table, and ordered a cup of tea. When it
was brought she produced from her bag a flask of spirits
—you could have smelt the liquor yards off—and pouring
some of her tea into a basin, filled up with ardent spirit;
then she quaffed the whole with many artistic grimaces
indicative of inward disgust. But I noticed that she
ordered another cup and “ laced” it like the other. When
s ie takes her post-meridian souchong at a friend’s house
what cat-lap the unmixed tipple must seem to her
seasoned gullet !
In a Sydney shop the other day they showed me some
invisible nets for keeping one’s bang nice and smooth.
They are small arrangements made in black, brown, and
yellow hair, and prevent your looks from escaping even
in the highest southerly buster. Lady Cafington, whose
head is always very neat, wears an invisible net to keep
it so.
I intend to keep severely away from Sydney Criterion
in the future while the dual bill, “Bitterest Foe” and
“Balloon,” hold the boards, because I object to crowded
houses in the lemon-squash season, and they won’t let me
gauge popular plays through the skylight. A shudder of
sympathy for Mrs. Brough ran through me when the
curtain rose and revealed her sitting pensively in blue
velvet before a blazing fire, while the d.c. mercury went
up with a whizz, and even the men made fans of their
programmes. “ Our Bitterest Foe ”is rather a taking
old Prussian, and Titheradge here and there plays him
with a strong brogue that turns him into a Home Rule
meeting, but, considered altogether, he’s so nice and his
clothes sit so divinely, that if Blanche were an ordinary
everyday female she would just sink audibly on to his
expansive bosom, and leave the unemployed-looking
Henri, whom Lyndal plays (with an improver on, ap-
parently), to roost sadly on the door-mat of her young
affections. In “The Balloon,” Fanny Enson as Mis*
Rippendale ants to the life as usual, and wears a natty
cream garment that is the very apotheosis of “hang, 1 '
but the rest of the stage-dressing is dreary. There were
really few nice toilettes in front. A gay-looking gown in
apple-green over pink crape, “lucky” moonstone necklet
and ornaments, was the prettiest I saw; while a woman
in a box ostentatiously wore a grey cloth Garrick cap, and
evidently imagined it a most irreproachable opera-cloak.
The engagement is announced of Miss Sophy Forbes,
daughter of Judge Forbes, of Sydney, with a gentleman
hailing from the fiery climate of Fiji.
A matinee show to help along the Women’s College
movement will be held at Sydney Criterion next Monday
(10th inst.) at 2.30 p.m, under the aegis of Baron and
Lady Carington, and a bushel of social persons who look
favourably on the higher education of women. Their
Excellencies are billed to attend, but I don’t think the
management had better launch out into that bouquet yet
awhile.
Melbournians must be a very long-suffering lot if they
don’t rise and play havoc amongst the locks of a local
scriloss who ingenuously remarks—“ Queenscliffe is
crowded with society folks, or at least with folks who are
making great efforts to impress the simple residents with
their social importance’’—and then calmly tails off into a
long and elaborate list of people stopping there !
Despite the fact that ladies were on the canvassing
committee for the organisation of the Sydney Subscrip-
tion Orchestra, I am sorry to say the scheme has fallen
through. The concerts will be held, however, the com-
ponents parts having “ up and said ” they would stand by
Hazon whilst that gilded musician could wield a baton,
whether the ghosts walk or not, and so the soulful few
who subscribed won’t be deprived of their harmonious
afternoons by the earthy majority who didn’t. And by-
the-bye the local dailies who, for complex motives, don’t
like to give Sydney culture a bad name, attribute the
non-success of the affair to the fact of the meeting being
held when “ everybody ” was “ out of town.” It would
be a great lark if another meeting were convened when
“ everybody ” gets back again. The results would be
magnificent, I don’t think.
At a recent meeting of the Sydney Benevolent Asylum
good fairies one of them rose modestly to remark that “ he
had much pleasure ... in bearing testimony to the
great help that it rendered to classes of persons distin-
guished for their utter helplessness ? In the report it was
stated that during the year more applications were re-
ceived from ‘students and nurses’ anxious to try their
maiden hand in the maternity wards than could possibly
be granted.” It’s well for these embryo Abernethys and
Gamps that these people are “distinguished for their
utter helplessness,” isn’t it? It’s nice to be able to see
how bad the effects of a wrongfully-administered blue pill
really are without endangering the life of anybody who is
anybody in particular.
1 read in an English journal that quite the latest craze
is “ foot-reading,” a pastime confined at present to the
boudoir but pre-destined for the drawing-room of the best
people. “ Foot-reading’ 1 is about as easy as falling off a
log, and obviously a much easier little swindle than
palmistry. Holding the client’s be-corned be-bunioned
member (or as much of it as she can) in the hollow of her
hand the prophetess would say impressively : “ Your life
has been full of pain and sorrow, and there are times when
each fatal step hurt you mortally.” And then the giddy
young matron would think the seer was alluding to her
cheap passion for Adolphus Gadabout and w’ould sigh
contritely while the prophetess paused for a fresh inspira-
tion of woe from an ingrowing toe-nail. Foot-reading
will never be a drawing-room pastime out here. No Aus-
tralian girl who knew what she was doing would ever ap-
pear before her adorer with her boots off. With the pos-
sibilities of such a vast framework in a petrified state at
2 a.m. before his eyes even the fondest might take alarm
and flee to return no more.
In connection with a recent big Sydney festivity I am
told that one of the guests, in refusing the invitation,
“ much regretted a previous engagement for the 2ndult.”
Newspaper correspondents everywhere arc plunged into
the “ Shall Women Smoke?” controversy, and the noes
seem to have it so far. Nellie Farren designated the
habit as “simply beastly,” and Letty Lind asked plain-
tively (for the probable benefit of her Silver King) “ Why
do they want to ?” Some of the arguments advanced are
sound enough, but the universal squelcher pm . (he
dissentients, “Will the lover bo so eager to kiss the lips
of his sweetheart if her breath smells of tobacco?” won’t
bear looking at. Women are generally conceded to be
more sensitive, than men, and yet they have spooned
deliriously from the days of James the First to our own
with lovers who smoked like chimneys, so why should
Romeo shudder if his Juliet brings her own aroma of Old
Judge to the tender courting? It is time the controversy
struck Sydney. At a very swell shop where cigarettes
are unostentatiously vended I was told the other day that
a case of ladies’ special cigarettes was sold in one after-
noon, and that another bale en route is already promised
to the very last packet! 1
If that giddiest of giddy gushers, Consul Oilderoy Wells
Griffin talks much more in the strain adopted by him at
the Sydney Mayoral Banquet he will alienate from him
the affection of the women of his great nation for ever
and a day. It seems passing strange that one who seems
to think so much of the ladies after dinner should remain
so confirmed a bachelor, doesn’t it ? But then, perhaps,
George Washington G. only thinks of the ladies after
dinner. I have known such Adonises.
lam sorry to say that the square-shaped envelope is
going out and the old-fashioned long one coming in again
—fortunately larger in size than before, which is some-
thing to feel thankful about. Letters are easier to fold
for square than for long envelopes and look nicer when
they’re taken out, but I suppose it’s no use grizzling. As
for the colours, red, blue and green of the gaudiest tints
are procurable, but these “ fashions ” usually last about a
week, and it is easy to find yourself saddled with quires
of gaudy paper that has become utterly impossible.
Cream, grey and white are best “ form ” at present.
“ Titania—in Society” from the “Dream” was the
subject of a Sunday lecture by a Sydney cleric. There
are dozens of Titanias in society. The only differ-
ence is that they generally wear more clothes and haven’t
the convenient excuse of a “magical drug” when they
go on a gigantic mash. That’s all.
The custom of carrying satin siioes filled with flowers
instead of bouquets at weddings seems to be gaining
ground. At a bridal ceremony held at the Sydney
Synagogue, on sth inst., each of the ten bridesmaids
carried a satin slipper full of white flowers.
I am told that a very popular lady vocalist from the
Marvellous Metropolis was a short time ago received into
the R.O. Church, at the chapel of the Passionist Fathers,
Marrickville.
Yours affectionately,
SAPPHO SMITH.
MAJOR MUDIE.
A Man of the Good Old Times.
A Sydney bookseller is reprinting Mudie’s
“ Felonry of New South Wales,” originally pub-
lished in London by Whaley and Co., in 1837.
This is what is written about Mudie in that now
scarce book, Therry’s “Reminiscences of New
South Wales and Victoria ” (London, 1803) which
Sampson, Low and Company would do well to
republish :
“ Eminently successful as was his administra-
tion, the career of Sirß. Bourke was not through-
out an untroubled one. Ho was particularly an-
noyed by circumstances connected with two
notable persons of his time —Watt and Mudie.
Mention has been already made of the zeal with
which Sir R. Bourke promoted measures for the
administration of justice; especially one for de-
fining the duties of magistrates, insisting on the
performance of those duties in open Courts of
Betty Sessions, prohibiting trials in the private
houses of magistrates, and limiting the jurisdic-
tion of a magistrate acting singly. Magistrates,
like other persons who possess power, are reluc-
tant to surrender it, and it is not to be wondered
at that some magistrates should regard with dis-
favour and discontent the restriction on their
authority which this measure imposed. Fore-
most in the band of discontented magistrates was
one Mudie, a person whom General Darling,
yielding to importunate solicitation, had indis-
creetly appointed to the magistracy.
“It is almost as difficult to trace each stage of
this man’s chequered career as it is to follow a
Harlequin through the various changes of a
Christmas pantomime. Originally Mudie had been
a sub-lieutenant of Marines, from which service,
under circumstances, it has been stated by his
contemporaries, that needed the exercise of an in-
dulgent arrangement, he had been permitted to
retire. He then embarked with some booksellers
in a speculation for manufacturing medals of the
principal persons engaged in the Peninsular and
the subsequent war that closed at Waterloo. The
appearance of the medals was delayed until the
heroes got out of fashion, so the speculation
turned out a failure. It involved Mudie and the
booksellers in one common insolvency. Having
gone through the usual probationary course in
the little Insolvent Court in Portugal-street,
Mudie was discharged, a certificated insolvent.
From his connection with the medal speculation
he obtained the sobriquet of ‘ Major Medallion,’
but for brevity he was designated and usually
known by the name of ‘ The Major.’ Fortunately,
in his straitened circumstances, lie fell in with a
benevolent man—the late Sir Charles Forbes -
who assisted him with means to proceed with his
family to New South Wales.
“On his arrival he obtained a well-selected
grant of land at Patrick’s Plains, on the River
Hunter. In the course of a few years his estab-
lishment became an extensive one, on which from
forty to fifty convicts were assigned to his ser-
vice. From these men he contrived to exact the
largest amount of labour at the least possible
cost. He had peculiar and favourite theories on
the subject of transportation and penal discipline.
He held rigidly by the doctrine that to extend to
them indulgence of any kind was to impair their
usefulness. The reformation of a convict found no
place in his philosophy. He looked upon per-
petual punishment as the natural state of all per-
sons who had once erred. If he did not consider
that it comprised the whole duty of man, he at
least practically maintained that in the unsparing
use of the lash consisted the main duty of a
colonial magistrate. Even when the judicial
sentence pronounced in England was completed,
he still contended that the punishment should be
prolonged.
“ ‘ Non mens hie sermo ’ —it is the character given
of Mudie by Dr. West, the accomplished historian
of Tasmania, who, in speaking of Mudie as a
man ‘ not fitted for the control of his fallen
countrymen,’draws a contrast between him and
the Macarthurs of Camden Park in dealing with
their convict servants.
“ ‘ According to Mudic’s doctrine, they ’ (the convicts)
writes Dr. West, * were sent to New South Wales to be
punished: such was his theory. Mudie spoke of the men
he employed in the tone of an auctioneer : * Nothing
could wash away their guilt or obliterate its brand '
.Tames Macarthur (of Camden Park) describes his own
plan as the reverse. lie knew that a severe gaoler could
not be esteemed as a good master. He endeavoured to
makohis servants forget that they were convicts.’*
“But Mudie did not leave it to others to impute
this theory to him as a plain inference from his
conduct—ne thus openly avowed it. It is right
to allow ‘The Major’ to speak for himself. In
a book called ‘The Felonry,’ which he printed,
but which, from the libels with which it abounded,
he did not venture to publish, he makes use of the
following language :— * Regarding their (the con
victs’) punishment as a means of deterring other
persons in England from the commission of
similar crimes, the prolongation of the punishment
is justified even in cases in which the reformation
may have already been accomplished.'
“ Mudie was no fanciful theorist ; the precepts
that he preached he practised. In one respect,
like a prophet who possesses the power of fulfilling
his own predictions, he had the power to enforce
his favourite doctrine. Rarely were tickets-of-
leave granted at ‘ Castle Forbes’ —the high-sound-
ing name that, in compliment to his benefactor,
Mudie bestowed upon a number of detached slab-
huts and rickety wigwams huddled together on
his establishment. At ‘ Castle Forbes ’ Mudie
proved himself a practical admirer of the benevo-
lent precept ‘ not to spare the lash,’ lest the child
might be spoiled. The floggings on his estab-
lishment were perpetual and excessive. This sys-
tem of treatment, in the course of time, produced
its natural result—outrage and desperation on the
part of his men.
“ At one time five of his convict servants seized
firearms at his place, broke away from his em-
ployment, and took to the bush. In their indis-
criminate rage they fired at, but happily missed,
a gentleman who was Mudie’s superintendent,
but who, I am inclined to believe, was really
guiltless of the severities there practised. These
men were pursued by the police and captured.
Convicts on their trial for capital offences were
usually unprovided with counsel ; they had sel-
dom (except cattle-stealers, who were, a wealthy
tribe of robbers) means to defray the cost of a de-
fence. In such cases, on the trial of aboriginal
natives, Government defrayed the expense of
counsel for the prisoners ; but this provision did
not extend to convicts. There was at this time,
however, a benevolent person in Sydney, possessed
of ample means, who, on condition qnly that his
name should not be disclosed, defrayed the
cost of counsel on several trials of convicts on
capital charges ; and on this occasion it happened
to me to be thus employed as counsel for Medic’s
men.
“The trial presented a truly painful exhibition.
The men took their places in the dock, as I took
mine at the bar, in utter hopelessness of their
escape from conviction. They had repeatedly de-
clared before their trial, and afterwards, that they
would prefer death to being returned to the ser-
vice of their late employer. Evidence of their
guilt was too transparent to admit of doubt ; and
the only line of defence that I conceived in any
way available for them was to show that their
treatment had been such as to present some miti-
gating features which might lead to the infliction
of a punishment short of death. By this course,
no doubt, I greatly displeased Mudie, and all who
identify the duties t f counsel with his private
opinions, and look upon him as the approver of
the crime, and not the mere defender of the
criminal. The men were tried under a local
ordinance, called ‘ The Bushrangers’ Act,’ which
rendered them liable to execution twenty-four
hours after sentence. They were found ‘Guilty;’
and then ensued a scene in court such as is not
likely again to be enacted in New South Wales, or
it may be hoped anywhere. [Worse things have
happened in N.S. Wales Supreme Court within
the last five years.]
“ On being called upon with the usual solemnity
of form to say why sentence of death should not be
pronounced upon them, Hitchcock, the most in-
telligent of the five men, said lie had no ground to
offer, but he implored the Government to insti-
tute an inquiry into their past treatment ; the
floggings they had undergone; the frivolous ex-
cuses resorted to for the purpose of depriving them
of their liberty alter they had served a period that
entitled them to its partial enjoyment by being
granted tickets-of-leave ; the bad and insufficient
food they had received ; the system of merciless
infliction of the lash throughout the district of the
Hunter River. On behalf of the convict popula-
tion he implored this act of justice and of mercy.
He proceeded to denounce by name the proprie-
tors on whose establishments lie alleged these
floggings were incessant. Hitchcock was stopped
by the Court, and he concluded by asking
that he and his fellow-prisoners might he
permitted to exhibit their lacerated backs to the
public gaze in court, to show what tortures they
had endured. This request, of course, could not
lie complied with ; the fatal sentence was passed,
and they were executed. The Solicitor-General
(Mr. Plunkett) humanely forebore to ins’st on
their execution in twenty-four hours after the
sentence, and assented to their having a reason-
able time to prepare for death.
“ These prisoners were all young men in the
prime o f life, varying from twenty to thirty-two.
Poole, one of them, was an excellent carpenter,
and two others were mechanics. The whole scene
caused a shudder that thrilled, not only through
the court, but through the heart of the colony.
They died with the same expressions of complaint
on their lips as to those to which they gave utter
anoe on the trial.
“An inquiry into their complaints took place,
conducted by two trustworthy officers of Govern-
ment. Mr. Flanagan states, in his recent ‘His-
tory of New South Wales,’ ‘that the result of
their investigations was a condemnation of the
mode in which assigned servants were deal t with
at Castle Forbes.’ Whatever may have been the
report, the five principal complainants who made
the charge at the time of the inquiry were lying
in ignominious graves. It is right I should state
that, on one point to which the attent ion of the
Commissioners was principally directed, the re-
port as to the supply of sufficient food, in con-
formity with the Government regulations, was
more favourable to Mudie than Mr, Flanagan
represents.”
Salisbury and Gladstone do not smoke.
All the ex-Governors of Queensland are
dead, excepting Normanby, who is 71.
There are but three ex-Governors of
N.S.W. living, and all have retired from the ser-
vice of the State. ,
Sir Henry Barkly, ex-Governor of Vic-
toria, is 66, and resides in London. Since his re-
tirement there have been six other Governors of
that colony.
Henry Goodenough, sergeant of police in
Gippsland, has just died, aged 00. He took part
in the storming of the Eureka Stockade under
Captain Thomas in December, 1854.
The eldest son of Lord Plunkett, Pro-
testant Archbishop of Dublin, is said to be an H-0.
Friar, and resident in Sydney. He is related to
Mr. Justice Foster, of theN.S.W. Supreme Court.
Far jeon’s dinner for 13 in the “ Silver
Flagon ” is but a reproduction of the “ La st
Members,” published anonymously by the late T.
P. Hill, of Melbourne, a quarter of a century ago.
From the account of the latest French
execution it would appear that the prison
authorities gave the connamn«i six glasses of rum
before taking him to the scaffold. The worst part
of being hanged in Australia is that they never
ask you in your last moments if you have a mouth.
* ‘ Hist, of Tasmania,’ vol. i., p. 269.


is not a photograph, nor a photo, a ghost—but a good photo, is a
true reflection of the original. For high-art photos, go to the
London Palace of Art, 10 Park-street, Sydney. Country photographers’ work from developement
o completion executed at lowest prices. Bromides a speciality, Staff of artists kept for* working up.
A GHOST
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Theatre Koval “Little Lord Fauntleroy.”
Her Majesty's “A Midsummer Night’s
Dream.”
Criterion “ The Balloon.” •
Cyclor am a Battle of Gettysburg.
School of Arts Harry Rickards’ Company.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Theatre Royal “ Cinderella.”
Princess’ “ The Guv’nor.”
Opera House “ Uncle Tom’s Cabin.”
Alexandra “ Monte Christo.”
St. George’s Hall “Muddles.”
Cycloram a “ Battle of Waterlo.”
It is interesting just now to read the press
notices concerning “ Midsummer Night’s Dream/’
a t the Globe, London, under the management of
Prank R. Benson (said, for advertising purposes,
to b'3 the son of the Archbishop of Canterbury),
a young and wealthy actor at one time in Henry
Irving’s Lyceum company, and practically un-
known to the metropolis. The Globe stage is
smaller than Her Majesty’s, Sydney, and yet, judg-
ing from illustrations, the general effects, par-
ticularly in the wood-scene, were good. Benson
B’ayed Lysander, the part assumed in Sydney by
arry Jewett, his wife was Titania, and G. K.
Weir was the Bottom; ho introduced some
“business,” especially in the “waking-up”
scene when his proximity to a “bottle of
good, sound hay ” perplexes him, which Mr.
Rignold has not used. Contrary to custom,
Oberon was played by a man, Otto Stuart, and
Grace Geraldine seems to have been an acceptable
Puck. Meantime the “Dream” has outstayed
all the other Sydney Christmas productions, and
at the time of writing the date of its withdrawal
is still undecided.
* & * fK-
After a most successful six weeks’ run
“ Aladdin ” will be removed on Saturday next to
make room for “Little Lord Fauntleroy,” a
highly proper family drama, whereof the moral is
that the only likely raising-ground for the vir-
tuous British peer is America. And so for a time
George Waltzon will waltz off with Jennie Lee to
make folks weep elsewhere with “Jo,” and the
tuneful Slade Murray will proceed to join the
Cogills in Melbourne, and the various male and
female supers will retire for 12 months to their
normal occupations at the wash-tub, or in connec-
tion with the “ ripe Fiji’s, fourteen a penny” trade.
*• * * *
At Sydney Criterion business is good, and
the double bill will doubtless run a week longer
than the firm originally intended. A deputation
of legislators will probably wait on Percy Lyndal
some evening xvhen the curtain drops on “ Our
Bitterest Foe ” to beg his recipe for rapid “ sober-
ing-up.” George Titberadge has had too many
parts of the cool, calculating, unswerving man of
the world school lately, and so his performance of
the German General does not strike the audience
so forcibly as it otherwise would, and Mrs. Brough
fails to exemplify all the possibilities of Blanche.
As for “The Balloon,” it goes “higher ’ every
night. Robert Brough lias got the Doctor down
very fine now, especially in the making-up of a
prescription, but George Anson’s irrepres-
sible gagging kills his big ascent - descent
speech in the last act. By the way, Anson’s
Fitzjohn Hall is reminiscent of his “ barn-
stormer ”in a play called, we think, “ A Night
Off,” produced some years ago at Sydney Opera
House. Lyndal’s young swell vastly improves on
acquaintance, and G. L. Gordon’s old Doctor
might have walked out of a Hurley-street study.
Miss Anson plays the designing man-desiring
widow to perfection, and Miss Romer’s fussy, old
valetudinarian is a study. “Caste” follows —
when, we know not.
m *- * *
At Bondi the many outdoor attractions
and a good musical programme in the large hall
attract large audiences daily.
*» * *
The Sydney Cyclorama directors propose
to build an arcade between the entrance and the
vestibule.
-& * *
The Midgets, after their seaside tour, have
returned to Solomon’s Museum, where a new
blood-curdling mystery with an unpronounceable
name is announced.
* IK- * *
At Sydney School of Arts ’Arry Rickards
has still got ’em with a new programme, opening
with “Ma in-Law,” an old favourite wherein
Mrs. Rickards plays several parts, very quietly,
and with great good taste. Rickards continues
to sing a descriptive scena and many character-
aongs, every evening. His costermonger, with
the song, “ Got to know’im fust,” is true to the
life, and he is compelled to beg a hearing for the
other members of the company, every even-
ing. Bell’s “ Irish ”is rather English, but bis
Lancashire has the true Shude-hill market twang.
Romeo,” wherefore art thou Murphy, is a
staunch patriot—he preaches Home Rule as
zealously as Michael Davitt, and, with his wife,
works very hard to please the public. The meta-
lophone playing of Georgie Devoe, the mandoline-
guitar duets of the Spanish Students, and the
accompaniments of Miss Fernandez are the instru-
mental features of the entertainment. Rickards’
last nights are announced.
* * *
A protracted nigger entertainment, assisted
by acts of inhuman cruelty and a consumptive
child who loves her “Puppar, Puppar”—the
whole being described as a special adaptation of
Uncle Tom’s Cabin ” —went off, at Melbourne
opera House, with all the fitful splendour of a
wet squib. In the course of converting Uncle T.
>nto a music-hall show there are furtive gleams of
a desire to preserve some of the pathetic incidents
Pertaining to the career of that coloured person.
Every now and again poor Eliza rushes around a
tavern, or a frozen river, or a steamboat —always
begging a rag baby to her breaking heart.
Another brief respite from songs and sand-
dances is afforded by the passing away of dear
httle Eva, while there is every reason to
believe that Uncle Tom gets welted to a
brighter sphere in the last act. On Saturday,
however, the decease of that good old man, fol-
lowed by the knifeing of Simon Legrec, didn’t
happen until Sunday morning, by whjch time The
Bulletin’s delegate was far, far away, with his
thoughts turning to holier things. Presuming
that Legree and George Harris do turn up again
■hey must, be like sweet memories of the long ago,
because both of them are right out of the special
adaptation for two or three hours previous,
is poor ’Liza very often there, and even
Topsy and lawyer Marks are but occasional oases
ot . verdant fooliage in the great desert of Christy
bMnstrelry. With a few acres of banjo and leg-
making, for which a picnic in Uncle Tom’s
kitchen is partly responsible, cut off from this
overloaded display it is doubtless doing its best to
hang together ere our notice of the pioneer perfor-
mance appears in print. There is little to say con-
cerning the acting of Miss Edith Blande, or Messrs.
Clyndes, Bucklaw, Calvert, all of whom come
and go like shadows between the bursts of music.
Mr. J. F. Sheridan’s representation of Lawyer
Marks is convincing evidence that his humour is
not inseparable from the skirts of Widow O’Brien,
but the Topsy of Miss Fanny Wiseman might be
many degrees funnier. Little Eva seems some-
what precocious in her angelic simplicity, and Mr.
Hosea Easton s familiar Uncle Tom is customarily
natural and wanting in breadth of effect. Much
of the variety busine-s is fetching enough, the
chorus-singing soars far above the average, and
Mr. George Gordon has painted good backgrounds.
But the impressiveness of Eliza’s escape is dis-
counted by the fact that each block of ice contains
wire springs, and yields to pressure after the
fashion of a bellows, or the pedestals of those
strange animals sold in toy-shops. The audience
naturally expect to hear poor Eliza squeak every
time she presses down a chunk of frozen river.
* *- *
“ The Guv’nor ” remains about as limp as
his exalted namesake at the Princess’s, and the
popular verdict has found that alleged comedy
guilty of having no visible means of support. The
worst feature about this whole gruesome resurrec-
tion is an aged idiot, who keeps climbing up the
other side of a wall and talking drivel to another
old man under an awfully mistaken impression
that he is bitterly sarcastic when, as a matter of
fact, lie ought to be boiled. This grey-headed
lunatic is continually popping up like Punch and
Judy, and why nobody hits him across the head
with a stick is past all understanding. Since the
first night Miss Maud Williamson has developed
into a fresh and charming personification of some-
body’s gushing daughter, but her former step-
mother lias given place to Miss Emery, who can’t
see the stately Maud without standing on tip-toe.
Then she calls her a silly little thing. If they run
“ The Guv’nor ” for another week he will certainly
faint away.
Patience and perseverance have lifted
“ Monte Cristo ” into a subdued success at the
Alexandra, and the fact that there is no Letty
Lind or “ Ballyhooley ” in Mr. Dampier’s ver-
sion of the French romance gets more generally
understood among the people. A great salt ocean,
which was not in thorough working order at the
outset, now takes a prominent position in this
spectacle. A sudden withdrawal of the Chateau
d’lf gives full play to a quantity of restless bil-
lows, and as they come rolling on towards the
orchestra, and Edmond Dantes emerges from their
cold embrace, it is like taking a trip to the sea-
side to hear what the wild waves are saying - .
If Dampier couldn’t swim like a duck he would
be swallowed up by the heaving waters, and pi-o-
bably tossed about by changeful tides until the
Crack of Doom. Even if his body were ulti-
mately washed ashore it might be so mutilated by
mussels, and other marine monsters, as to be
beyond recognition. There is a story told of an
old maiden aunt who got drowned for many years,
and was finally converted into a bed of oysters.
All her vast fortune was divided between two
favourite nephews, in consequence of which they
were enabled to eat the old woman off the shells
at eighteenpence a dozen.
* * * 35-
A morning performance of the Royal
Pantomime fetched the children in such shoals
(still harping on denizens of the deep !) that
another matinee has been arranged for Saturday.
Otherwise “ Cinderella ” is gradually slowing
down, which indicates that the sins of that mythi-
cal young kitchen-scrubber will find her out ere
she is much older. A screaming comedy, de-
scribed as “Muddles,” took possession of the St.
George’s Hall stage on Saturday. It is built up
of venerable complications in the matters of secret
marriages and babies, resulting in the casting
of cruel aspersions upon virgin innocence and the
temporary discomfiture of a naughty old man and
things like that. “ Muddles ” is not quite destitute s
of sparkle, but the company, with the exception
of Mr. Harry St. Maur, doesn’t sparkle quite so
much as a decayed herring on a dark night.
Nevertheless it is a pleasing show in moderation,
and some of the girls atone for their lack of
experience by being sweeter than fresh-gathered
plums with the bloom on. This last nice metaphor
is intended as a set-off against the former nasty
one. * The Victoria Hall is shut up, a white-
headed Australian aboriginal has been added to
good old Kreitmayer’s Museum, and other shows
proceed as usual.
* * *
Myra Kemble’s London debut seems to
have been very successful. Some of the critics,
however, say that she lacks power, but the lady
avers that she was holding herself in that she
might not be accused of ranting. From a private
letter, dated Christmas Day, to a Sydney friend,
we learn that Henry Irving has throughout her
London stay been very kind, sending an en-
couraging telegram to her just ere the curtain
rose—“ All success be with you,” and this was
followed by one from Essie Jenyns—“Your heart’s
desire be your’s to-day and good luck. ” Fred Leslie
and Nellie Farren, who continually talk of ‘ ‘ Good
old Australia ” sent Myra the finest bouquet
that she had ever seen, and this, considering the
time of year, must have been very expensive.
All Australian London was present. Sir George
and Lady Innes and Mr. and Mrs. MacArthur
had ten-guinea boxes, one Australian enthusiast
gave five guineas for a stall, and after the per-
formance many congratulatory messages and tele-
grams came to hand. These matinees are expen-
sive luxuries to the shut-out artiste who is com-
pelled thus to seize the only chance of coming
before a London audience, and we do not know
that Miss Kemble is any nearer an English engage-
ment now than prior to the performance,
* * * i!'r
The Bulletin’s incidental announcement
of a coming comic-opera company—headed by
Nellie Stewart and including other such first-class
artists as Madame Burton and Snazelle—created
a mild sensation in theatrical circles. The forma-
tion of this important company was a dark, pro-
fessional secret until The Bulletin “ blew the
gaff ” in quite a casual way. Whereupon followed
an official notice that a start would be made at
Melbourne Opera House on March 22nd, with
“Paul Jones ” as the send-off.
* * *- *
Reuter cables that Lucia Zarate, the
“midget,” died from exposure in a snow-bound
train, while travelling through California. Lucia
was formerly exhibited with “General” Mite,
her weight being little more than one-third of
that of the General’s neat wife. Even the warrior
himself weighed twice as much as Lucia before he
married and put on flesh, yet bright little Mite as
we now see him is something under 141bs. avoir-
dupois. When this phenomenal pair were on
view at the Piccadilly Hall, London, some nine
years ago, it was difficult to accept Lucia Zarate
as an actual human being, although she was
then arrived at sweet seventeen, and en-
dowed, as their manager explained, with all the
whims and fancies of young ladies of that inter-
esting age. She hopped, rather than walked, about
a raised platform, while a beaky nose, sticking out
between bead-like eyes, assisted to give her the
appearance of a savage little bird. Lucia wore a
circlet of diamonds upon her “engaged” finger
and the management had a standing offer to pre-
sent this ring to any newborn baby with any
finger small enough to get inside it. Some
miserably emaciated babies were brought along,
but none of them took the ring. It is beyond the
bounds of probability, almost of possibility, that
another midget so small as this untimely-cut-off
damsel will live to astonish the world for a
quarter of a century. Take Lucia for all in all,
we shall never look upon her like again. When
we did look upon her the spectacle made us feel
rather sick.
** * *
Nellie Stewart’s income, according to a
Melbourne weekly, “hasbeen considerably larger
than any lady who has appeared on the Australian
stage.” We should like to know the exact mea-
surements of Nellie’s income, and whether it
weighed many pounds more than—say, Alice
Barnett.
We always thought Myra Kemble was an Australian',
but she is not—she’s Irish.
Baritone Santley (witli the Much-Travelled Smythe>
who is now managing him) left for New Zealand last
Tuesday, accompanied by Elion Atkins, Henry Stockwell,
and accompanist Bradley. The “ Son of the'Ocean Isle”
went out of Sydney Heads in the Te Anau with the waves
about 20 feet high. The farewell Melbourne season was an
immense success. In ten concerts Santley netted more
than he did during the thirteen concerts of his first
season.
In an interview headed “ The Queen of the Australian
Stage,” the Pall Mall Gazette says that, “ although
not in the first bloom of youth, Miss Kemble’s fair, silky
hair, blonde complexion, and graceful carriage give her
an excellent stage presence.”
Although Rev. Charles Clarke does not leave England
till the middle of February people are already asking at
Mullins’ in Melbourne when the plan of seats for the first
lecture will be opened.
In the “ Gondolier,” Gilbert has a sly dig at the Shook
of Gampbridge
“ In enterprise of martial kind,
When there was any fighting.
He led his regiment from behind
He found it less exciting.
But when away his regiment ran,
His place was at the fore, O
That celebrated,
Cultivated,
Underrated,
Nobleman,
The Duke of Plaza-Toro !
“ When to evade Destruction’s hand
To hide they all proceeded,
No soldier in that gallant hand
Hid half as well as he did.
He lay concealed throughout the war,
And so preserved his gore, O!
That unaffected,
Undetected,
Well-connected
Warrior,
The Duke of Plaza-Toro ! ”
The late William Hoskins was the original Richelieu in
Lytton’s play of the same name.
Gilbert Parker is lecturing in Western Australia on
“ Short Stories from Many Lands.”
A meeting to form a social club “confined to persons
of musical taste ” will be held in the Grand Hotel, Wyn-
yard Square, Sydney, on Thursday, (ith Feb. Such a
club will, The Bulletin prophesies, be found utterly in-
complete without a prize-ring and a house-surgeon.
“ Musical taste ” is too often a mere euphemism for envy,
hatred, malice, and all uncharitableness.
Maggie Knight, convalescing at Katoomba, is now well
enough to take part in amateur theatricals.
Melbourne Bijou won’t be quite ready for B. and B. on
March Ist.
The matimic to lie held at Sydney Criterion on Monday,
10th Feb., under the patronage of Gov. and Lady Caring-
ton and other notables, in aid of the Women’s College,
promises to be a tremendous success as all the circle seats
were quickly snapped up.
Says an American writer“ The chief duty of ‘ stars ’
is to create lofty expectations ; it is usually their misfor-
tune to fall below them.” The ‘fixed star’ never plays
outside of London, of course, while the‘falling star’ is
doomed to hoof the provinces.
Miss Helen Rowe, contralto, daughter of the late Mel-
bourne doctor and at one time Mansfield squatter (old
Doctor Rowe, of Mount Battery Station), has gone to
Europe to finish her musical studies and enter on a pro-
fessional career.
A correspondent informs us that one of the first per-
formances of “poses plastiques” in London was given by
Madame Wharton—well-known as the Lady Godiva at
Coventry—in Leicester Square. The entertainment was
in no way indecent, and the police never had occasion to
interfere. “ Venus rising from the’sea ” was the favourite
pose.
Hitherto omitted Hamlets ; Titheradge, Leake, Dew-
hurst, Harkin.
It is said that Madame Marion Burton, the charming
contralto, is a native of Melbourne. Melbourne folks will
lay claim to old Jack Robertson some day.
Alice Norton has been very successful in “ Harbour
Lights,” “ Held by the Enemy,” and “ Human Nature,”
in the Tasmanian tour of MaoMahon’s Comedy Co.
In styling his new play “ Pakeha,” George Darrell made
a blooming error. He thought the word meant “stranger,”
whereas it is good Maori for “ whiteman.”
On dit that Nellie Stewart has plenty of money of her
own to row in the boat with Marian Burton. They say
she has shares as a landlord of the Theatre Royal
with her father and Coppin, and Richard Stewart always
invested her money carefully from girlhood. “ Paul
Jones ” will be a big thing, with Marian Burton in Mist
Huntingdon’s London part of the Buccaneer and Nelli j
Stewart for prima donna.
Mrs. Langtry, it is cabled, has completely broken down,
and it is extremely doubtful whether she will recover.
The leading topic in theatrical circles is as to whether
is in the new big musical venture. The general
opinion seems to he that if he is, more fool he. He may
lose money but cannot make any, for it the spec, be suc-
cessful (as is likely enough) he will only he taking money
from one pocket to put it in the other.
Despite heavy rain, the working staff of Sydney Royal
held their pantomime picnic at Sans Souci on, Sundav
last. The: prizes were distributed by Mr. Goodman on
Monday evening in the property room after the fall of the
curtain. Some pressmen and prominent members of the
“ perfesh ” were present and much singing, reciting anil
speechifying was indulged in between drinks.
At Poverty Point.
(A DIP INTO THE [?]
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
Tis the last jovial mummer
Left “ blowing ” a loan,
All his luckless companions,
Long jaded, have gone ;
No star of his kidney,
No Roscius is nigh,
To discuss o’er their lushes
The sweet by-and-by.
I'd relieve thee, thou lone one,
Nor blindly condemn ;
But the others are sleeping,
Why not sleep with them ?
No limelight bedazzles
The green, narrow bed
Where thy mates of the corner
Lie centless and dead.
So soon Life grows hollow
When fav’rites decay,
And the Pet of the “ Circle ”
Is told he “don’t pay.”
When new “ artists ” blither
Where old ones were known,
’Twere better to toddle
R.U.E.—alone.
H.C.C.
Local Mormonism
They tell me out in Utah there’s a curus set of
men.
They’re not contented with one wife, but want
some five or ten ;
They call it a religion, and they think they're
doin’ right,
And the women folks live peaceable and neither
scratch nor fight.
But the rest of Christendom at large are kickin
mighty rough,
They’re bound them men shall git divorced and
call one wife enough—
And the Congress legislated till its narves is all
unstrung
To squelch the marryin’ habit in the land of Brig-
ham Young.
Now, I never lived in Utah, and don’t s’pose I
ever will,
But these folks that’s always quarrelin’ about
Mormons make me ill —
Why don’t they turn their efforts and their awful
righteous frown
From the Mormons out in Utah to the Mormons
here in town ?
If them women can agree to live in peace and hap-
piness,
And the old man treats them equal in regard to
funds and dress,
There’s nothing more to horrify the neighbours or
to shock
Than the man right here who keeps his wife and
mistress in one block.
Now, men are men the whole world o’er, and will
be all their lives,
And jest so long as these men breathe there’ll be
heartbroken wives;
There’ll be tears and sighs and misery and young
heads turnin’ grey ;
But we needn’t go to Utah for the men that go
astray.
If I was a committee to conduct a Mormon search
I’d start right here in Gotham in some big, high-
soundin’ church,
And I’d show you men who cover, with a fine
religious pride,
The sins of old King Solomon and Brigham Young
beside.
YANKEE
Sir Henry Parkes is said to be bracing
himself up for the forthcoming Federal Conference
on Marshall’s Tonic Nervine.
A Melbourne paper has discovered that
“ a woman readily pardons her minister’s failings. ”
The feeling is mutual, dontcherknow.
Silas Harding, the very wealthy Victorian
squatter whose ingenious endeavour to dodge the
Land Tax is still fresh in the public mind, was
married to a Geelong shop-girl the other day.
Silas is verging on the seventies, and his blooming
bride is about nineteen. Prim and proper Geelong
is shocked ; it is thought in the best circles that
an old man like that ought to be ashamed to go-
and marry a shop-girl when there are so many
forlorn damsels “ in sassiety ” just dying for hus-
bands.
The S.M, Herald, the official organ in
Australia of Her Majesty’s ante-chamber, gave in
last Tuesday’s issue in ifs mail-news the astound-
ing information that in Paris amongst the influen-
tial victims of influenza were Lord and Lady
Lyons and their son, Lord Knebworth. Everybody
who does not know the aristos knows, however,
that Lord Lyons is no longer Ambassador at
Paris, seeing he is defunct, and that Knebworth is
a title belonging to the house of Lytton, which
ought to be patent to anv reader of Bulwer’s
novels.
Sir Frederick Napier Broome, who has
tried so many things and failed at all, lias left
Western Australia and is on the lookout for
another job. He would make a suitable represen-
tative of the “Lord of Misrule,” as he has suc-
ceeded in setting every colony he has governed by
the ears and convulsing its society by his ever-
lasting official and social squabbles. At Mauritius
he quarrelled with the Treasury over financial
matters, and was compelled by the Colonial Office
to back down—shortly after which be was trans-
ported to Western Australia. At first all went
well, and as he happened to be the only Australian
governor on leave in London when N.S. Wales
shed everlasting shame on itself by sending away
the Soudan contingent, he got Tummy to preside
at the Colonial Institute when he read a highly-
coloured, not to say utterly unreal, description of
poor old Swan River, in which the desert was
made to blossom like unto the rose. The elated
and grateful colony presented its autocrat with
£lOOO, and an extra £6OO a year, in return for the
yarns he had spun and in humble gratitude
to the distinguished and saintly prince for
presiding on the immortal occasion. But no sooner
was Broome back in Government House, Perth, than
he commenced to make things lively. First he
quarrelled with Attorney-General Hensman, be-
cause that officer declined to advise magistrates
as to the sentences they ought to inflict on every
unfortunate brought before them, and first sus-
pended and then interdicted him. Then he chal-
lenged the veracity of the Commissioner of Crown
Lands in terms which that official chose to con-
strue as a threat, and as the Commissioner on this
occasion happened to be John Forrest, the ex-
plorer, his Excellency was at once requested to
“ come on ” —but the only result of this episode was
the interchange of dispatches with Downing-street
and the administering of a severe reprimand to
the pugnacious Governor, His next shindy was
with Chief-Justice Onslow, a very even holder of
the scales, whom he incontinently suspended for
refusing to advise what were and what were not
suitable cases for the vice-regal clemency on the
occasion of the Jubilee of Her Gracious, and sub-
sequently interdicted the unfortunate judge for
supplying all the correspondence to an inquisitive
reporter before it had come under the attention of
the Secretary of State. For this action Broome
was burnt in effigy in ijie two chief towns in the
colony, and secured a reputation which won’t help
him at head-quarters.


WOLFE’S SCHNAPPS!
l>e on your guard for FRAUDS when
pnrciiasing.
Everybody should use PernoH's latest host StfOW'WflWfl
Patknt Rollkii Flour. It is the tfreatest success or
With a Water Party.
By a Quenched Brand.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
In order to be candid with the exacting
tlientele of The Bulletin let me at once admit
that I am an abstainer of strange experiences ; a
kworn-off imbiber; one that “ all in later, sadder
life begins to war against ill-uses of a time.”
They were ill-uses, but then it certainly was a
time. I have had carousals; mine has been the
average spree; the superior and sustained booze,
and the long, wide, deep, massive incomparable
drunk. It i s true, I have, i n many times and places,
merely gone “on the pot,” and that, under pressure
of circumstances beyond my control, I have occa-
sionally been only “tanked,” which, as you are
aware, is mildness itself, is most true. But I
have generally gone the pace conscientiously and
had the horrors truly and well. I have tossed the
blue collar of bondage down in the dust fronting
remote roadside shanties, and gone in, to emerge
after having seven weeks of insane revelry in ex-
change for a two years’ cheque. I have joined in
the roaring chorus when the counter was sticky
with the rim-prints of beer-pints and populous
with intoxicated flies. I have been to banquets
where the chairman was raving before the ladies
withdrew, the Pastoral Interest pouring brandy
over the prostrate body of Our Visitor, and the
Host chasing the Hostess with a morticing-axe. I
have “had them” from every known kind of fer-
mented or distilled or contrived liquor, and from
several kinds not yet put on the general market.
Full-bodied Farmers’ Friend, sulphuric acid of a
rare vintage, potential petroleum, Worcester sauce,
and inspiriting pork-brine have, in turn, filled the
cup for my quaffing, and I have seen much. Hag-
gard and unsteady Eumenides have come up out
of Dis to keep me company ; blear-eyed
devils of the night have taken me home
shakily arm-in-arm across weltering deserts of
twisting serpents; I have been “a brother to
dragons and a companion of owls;” damned
wraiths have spun and whirled round the sinking
flame of my slush-lamp, and from the smoky
rafters sinister apes have swung and chattered,
mocking me. I repeat that I have roystered, and
looked upon the she-oak, and heard the chimes. I
have lighted at the spark of rum ‘ ‘ lamps that
outburned Canopus ” and had “ fierce midnights
and famishing morrows,” as becomes a bushman
of proper spirit. I have upheld the honour and
dignity of Australian bushmanship by never
ignoring a rum-shop, and, as in Italy, “ every
road leads to Rome,” in N.S.W. every road leads
to rum and rum leads to ruin. Which suggests a
rune to rum. Shall not Red Heart have post-
humous honour in this widely-read article? Shall
not the rum-cask have a stave ?
THE SHADOWS OF A GREAT CITY.
SELECTOR : “WELL, I WAS DOWN IN SYDNEY AND SOLD THE SELECTION
TO MOORE M‘GUINNESS & CO.-’ERES THE PAPER. DON’T LOOK
MUCH EH? WELL, MOORE’S A TOFF AND NO MISTAKE
M‘GUINNESS IS NOT MUCH TO LOOK AT, BUT THE CO.! MY
COLONIAL—A WHOLE ROOMFUL!”
There is no poetic license about the fore-
going—indeed, I am now firmly opposed to any
licenses whatever. Called by a large and imposing
card of invitation issued by the honorary secretary
of the Local Option League—a card like that
with which Alfred Bennett once beckoned from
afar the grateful scribes of the Pound and Foot-
bridge to a royal feast of general provisions I
went to the breakfast at the Central Coffee Palace
the other morning. A gx-eat number of people
were pouring in at the doors and assembling at
the tables when I arrived, and I, who had hitherto
chiefly poured out, poured in and assembled also.
I found a seat between two prohibitionists, the
one upon my right a young lady and pretty enough
—of the kind who give remonstrative little fan-taps
(not such the taps that influence bushraen) to those
about them, and occasionally giggle : the other
elderly, male, austere, with the lines of prohibi-
tion all over his countenance. _ The crowd around,
which I noted keenly in the interval of awaiting
the waitress, had an air of determination and
aggressiveness about it which was now being
manifested towards the victuals provided. It
was a crowd not to be daunted either by com-
bined brewers or fried fish, so to speak. A
little way down the table was a personage in black,
whose every movement denoted the human parson
who feels the eyes of the world upon him. He
ostentatiously asked for the water-bottle every
now and then, and furtively worked his way down
the bill of fare. Among the elders this type was
plentiful; among the young men the affable hymn-
book-hander, seat-finder, and general utility youth
of the Sunday-schools, with his light hair, his
shadowy whiskers, and his expression of patience
and beatitude was prominent, and he, too, was
meekly negotiating the complete menu. His
mother, proud of him and happy (for he had not
yet taken to backing the double or got a billet in
the bank), was there in numbers, and he was
always anxious to pass her cup for more coffee.
She drank coffee, but compromised the matter, in
some cases, by wearing a dress of watered silk.
# # *
I applied myself to my left-hand neigh-
bour, and elicited from him the opinion that
strong drink was ruining the world. He had long
ago resolved that it should never pass his lips.
“ I, too, sir, long ago made the same resolution,”
I said, with the mental expansion “unless be-
tween them.” “I thought that you had never
been a wine-bibber, ”he answered. He was right;
I have never bibbed wine. One who spends his
days in the blue-black depths of the great Bush
cannot waste opportunities in triviality. “ I have
never known the taste of alcohol,” he continued,
“but I have seen around me so much of its work
that I am an uncompromising Local Optionist. ”
“What!” I cried, “never tasted alcohol—never
had anything hot, for instance, with sugar —last
thing at night, say !” —much as Dick Swiveller
cried to the Marchioness in tones of surprise and
pity, “What seventeen and ignorant of the
taste of purl?” “Sir,” he said, sternly, “you
presume.” “ Pardon me, sir,” I answered humbly,
“ I only presume that you are mistaken. Do you
know that alcohol exists in the purest air, in the
purest water, in bread, in potatoes, in the earth ?
You are breathing it, drinking it, eating it,
always. It is part of everything and part of your-
self. In animal and vegetable life alcohol every-
where abounds. Do you know that Mlints found
it in the leaves of water-lilies —consider how they
grow, exempt from toil or spinning and supplied
with natural stimulants? In analysing a jelly-
fish, about the only decipherable thing found was
some kind of schnapps. The inane pollywog of
the wayside pool, remote from bars and breweries,
may become intoxicated with the exuberance of
its own alcohol. Everyone of us is simply a self-
acting, perambulatory illicit-still-—ask Secretary
Whitelocke, of the N.S.W. Licensed Victuallers,
if it is not so. There is no place in this world in
which to hide from alcohol, there is no place in the
grave, and probably none in the world of spirits.
Ghosts have been seen before now composed en-
tirely of alcohol —overproof and taken neat.”
“How sad if all you say is true!” he said,
mournfully; “ and I have heard it before.
It disheartens a true abstainer to know that
in the good fight Nature herself as well as
the licensing laws, seems to be on the publican’s
side.” “ Let me impress this upon yon, sir, as
one who knows,” I said, “ If you ever feci dis-
posed to fall in with the cosmic march and be
natural, always shake a new bottle well before
opening it. You have your fusel much more evenly
distributed that way.”
# * *
The gushing young girl then gave mo her
experiences of the flowing bowl. They consisted
chiefly in having once seen a drunken bookmaker
going into a church. She said the Governor ought
to stop such things and shut the nasty hotels, and
much mn'c to the same effect. Then Mr. J. H.
Young, the Speaker, who has for years been
listening to the wrangles of more or less
drunken men, rose and gave an address on
the evils of drink. Other speakers followed in the
interests of total suppression; a'collection was
taken up and the excitement became intense.
But most of the speeches were short, and most of
the illustrations of the doings of drink feeble,
indeed, to a scarred veteran of my standing. I
could have spoken out of the deeps of frightful'
exampleship. I could have asphyxiated the.,
women and thrilled the men and filled the plates'
with a recital that would have made (forgoes
shudder, and with a voice as of a teacher pulled
from the pit to the pulpit. “ That fellow Paul —
the parvenu !” says the scornful St. Peter, in the
“ Vision of Judgment.” For once I can honestly
say that I had some of the feelings of a saint.
What did any of these people know about it ?
Which of them had wallowed in the Stygian
gulfs of a measureless debauchery like unto
mine? Black-coated sober men who had
never had visions, or decimated a portion of the
community, or wrecked their own constitutions
and the uniforms of Her Majesty’s police; com-
fortable, smiling women who had never gone out
with black eyes or broken hearts to buy a wed-
ding-ring’s worth of gin for themselves or for the
brutish husbands who beat and kicked them.
Pooh ! There may have been a few of the rescued
here, but I sawnoneof themarksof full brotherhood
or sisterhood to those of my own forsaken frater-
nity of the bottom rung. The proceedings illogically
closed with cheers for the Queen, in which I re-
fused to join because- that lady has been pleased
to express her appreciation of colonial; wine, and
takes whisky-and-seltzer for sake as
a regular thing. .
* * . * .
The collection was a large, ohe, and tile ’
local optionists are going 'tomnake a big fight
by-and-by. There is some Qiaiijby- - pambyism
among them,,,of course, and some,'swagger of
self-righteousness,-iperhaps, but in thp main they
struck me as an earnest body of reformers, working,
regardless of cost to themselves for a reform
that is coming and will come —though their
unphilosopfaical methods will never be the
means of bringing it about. Drunkenness, like
plural voting, monarchy, landlordism, Abigail,,
lawyers, the lash, and several other things must;
go, whatever may be the manner of its going.
The people of the future will need clear heads to
understand what their rights are, and the hands
they stretch forth to take back their own must not
tremble at all. The preliminary mustering of
forces is going on now, that is all—the fighting is
for the future. Principle is on the one side :
interest on the other. This is about the present
position, metrically summarised after the manner
of Hosea Biglow
“ Le’s work fair ’n’ square - n’ accordin' to Cocker,
To shet every bar-room an’ beer-cask tap, .
Fur strong drink is ragin’ an’ wine’s a mocker.
An’ thet’s what’s the matter with us!" soz
Knapp.
But Nelson P.
Whitelocke, he
Sez the thing’s agen’ conscience an’ liberty !
“ Tanglefoot’s deatli to the moral natur’,
An’ crime, as .ledge Stephen did once remark,
Is its fruit, an’ it isn’t the clean potatur
To sell secli potations ! ” sez G. D. Clark.
But Nelson P.
Whitelocke, lie
Sez he knows Jack the Ripper performs on tea !
“Look whar’ ye like ter, and cast yer eyes on
The various parts o’ the whole world’s map
You’ll find all the best men hev’ died o’ pizen,
The poets, an’statesmen, and secli!” sez Knapp,
But J. P. T.
Caulfield, he
Sez he feels Genius needs an occasional spree !
“ Brandy ’n’ gin ’n’ the stuff that the brewers
Grow rich upon,” Richardson sez “is vile,
Only fit to be spilled in the city sewers ! ’
But N. P. Whitelocke sez, “ I should smile!”
And J. P. T.
Caulfield, he
Sez a drop now an’ then wouldn’t hurt a flea !
Sez John Hurley : “The law’s got to be amended
Fur whiskey all round us is raisin’ Cain.
In the States prohibition is workin’ splendid,
An’ the coppers hev nothin’ to do in Maine.”
But J. P. T.
Caulfield, he
Sez iu Maine they are always too drunk to see !
“ Thet Whitelockes th’ orneriest kind of critter,”
Sez Clark, “ fur he swears agin’ beer one day,
An’ the next agin’ water grows quite as bitter,
An’ finds thet on both .sides he’s guv’ away.”
But Nelson P.
Whitelocke, he
Sez he’s not a dam mule with jest one idee !
“ There’s lost souls in every imperial gallon
O’ liquor made, an’ the worst o’ crimes
Is to run a business,” sez Pastor Allen,
“ Kz never was known of in Bible times.”
But Nelson P.
Whitelocke, he J
Sez that Toohey’s ancestors brewed beer in Judee .
“ Wer’re goin’ to combine an’ to work like blazes,
To close every soul-snarin’ devils’-trap.
So we tell ye straight to your brazen faces
That’s the pattern o’ hairpins we are !
Knapp
And Nelson P.
Whitelocke, he
Sez : “ We’ll combine too an’ we’ll let ye see .
When a man has chronic influenza he
becomes a regular sneezer.
Bengali, a N.Z. inspector of nuisances,
has been nick-named MucV-Bougall.
A copy of the Queensland Evangelist
lias just reached us. It is edited by the Reverent
Mr. Whale, but contains no, reference to .lonan
There is evidently a mistake here.
Mr. 0. H. Hayes, of Sydney Exchange,
was, while Mayor of Manly, commissioned by
N.S.W. Government to buy an attractive piece ()
local land as a public park. A Manly land-job e ,
not knowing that Hayes had in Ins pocke
Government commission and believing that
latter thought of bidding for the block on his o« ?
account, said : “ Well, old man, am I to be 1U '
If so, I’ll not bid against you.” “ Why, certain y» M
said Hayes, "you'll be in it; I give you my wor •
The land was knocked down to Hayes, to "
his friend : “Well, old man, we got it cheap. A
many of ns are in it?” “ Oh,” said Hayes, ,
all in it,” “What do you mean?” enquired
would-be partner. “Why,” replied Hayes,
mean that not only is all Manly in it, ” u , j n
man, woman, and child in N.S.W. has a sh -
the transaction. In fact, every living s .
Australia is in it. I bought it for the Gover
as a park.” _____ ,
Red Heart, in fiery days gone over,
So dear to mine, a song to thee ;
I that was faithful and thy lover
Have cast thee off and bowed to tea.
I that long worshipped thee, not wisely
But far too well, have signed the pledge,
And now drink “ soft-stuff ” coloured nicely
Like thee, that sets my teeth on edge !
I was thy servant ; my defection
Was great, for I was even as ten
(By this I would not cast reflection
Upon thy present splendid men).
But what is one among so many ?
Around thee, countless as the sands,
Throng yet the swarms, with eyes uncanny
And stammering lips and shaking hand...
Thine still is empire ; thou art royal
Beyond most kings, O, King of Pain !
Ten thousand thousands, who are loyal
To nothing else, uphold thy reign.
Thou still hast sorcery to win them
From husband, children, wife, and sire
To scorch all germs of good within them
And lead their feet through fire to fire.
I have forsworn thee, and already
For me a dull mazed mind grows sharp,
With fluent grace and hand quite steady
I sling the ink and smite the harp,
But, as of old, in all the regions
Where thou art known thou boldest sway.
The shuddering, blind, dishevelled legions
Are gathered at thy feet to-day.
The. drover, far in wildernesses
Spies out thy barken oasis.
And yielding to his love’s excesses
Consumes himself and thee with bliss,
Then reels away with one last bottle
Delirious, happy, ragged, brave—
The rest thou kuow’st, Bed Heart. The wattle
Is said to bloom above his grave !
The carved bone scarf-ring to the shearer
Is dear, likewise the calf-skin vest,
But thou to him, Red Heart, art dearer
A thousand times than all the rest;
He parts with them to fill a billy
With thee, regardless of expense,
And wanders off hilarious, silly,
And slumbers by the dog-leg fence !
The rouseabout, the cook, the “ dagger ”
Are thine, thy very own ; the “ supe ”
Is still quite often seen to stagger
As full of thee as any hoop ;
The boss himself, with thirst unslaked
Brinks on, until he starts and makes
Twelve miles an hour, alert and naked,
And yelling to call off the snakes !
The navvy, delving in the tunnel
Counts every day till pay-day comes,
When he may make his mouth a funnel
For many brimming Red Heart rums.
He strikes the gad and hates the ganger,
Sustained by thought of the delights
Of noise and heat, and love, and anger,
Sworn friendships, and ferocious fights !
The sailor, out upon the briny,
Who cries “ Yo, ho !” and furls the sheet
Ingenuous, gallant, British, shiny
NVith tar, and having flat bare feet,
Devours salt-junk and swallows weevils
To make his way from port to port, _
And join the host, transformed to devils,
Who fill thy lower George-street court !
Red fisherman ! in many waters
Thy nets are cast, and all that come
Are fish to thee; the tawdry daughters
That nibble baits hung near the slum.
The bitter mothers, at the mangle
Far in the night with arms that ache,
For these thou knowest how to angle,
To play, and trifle with, and take !
Thou hast divined that human nature
Is much the same in every grade,
Even in our halls of legislature
Thy cunning gins, O Rum, are laid,
And there, as elsewhere, they have answered
Thy purpose, many and many a thing
Untold of in the type of Hansard
Proclaims thee every inch a King.
My king no more. My love was fervent
And long enduring. I have said .
I was thy most obedient servant;
My heart was thine, my next day head
My own. The bargain wasn’t equal,
It seemed, when 1 began to think
About it coolly, and the sequel
Is that I’ve turned away from Drink,
No more for me the seasons reckless
Of joy, when thou did’st o’er me reign—
No more through thee I’ll stumble, chequeless
And dazed, across the Old Man Plain !
Red Heart - Red Hand —no more, for ever
In thy blood-hue my soul I’ll wash,
But, feeling thirsty, will endeavour
To reconcile myself to squash !
Not now the friend of thy adoption
Held firmer than with hooks of steel
I’ve joined the ranks of Local Option
Whose swords that heart of thine shall feel;
I’ve drained and handed back thy chalice
The last time, so good-bye, old chap,
I’m going to the Coffee Palace
To breakfast with thy foeman, Knapp.


■■■■■■■
đ
Celebrated
liras
&
m
t Y«vV
wmoßrnssu
4 roruSxpoßT l‘
Aurora-, Ind.m
■£>ol c ffigg/wto.F. &C?
Everybody should use Pennell’s latest best Snow-white
Patent Roller Flour. It is the greatest success of the
age.
For Nervous Debility
use iiorsford’s acid phosphate.
Dr. Alex. S. Ogg, Government Medical Officer, Gundagai,
says: I have the greatest confidence in recommending it
in nervous debility, and in all cases where the system lias
become debilitated from disease. As a nervous tonic it is
unsurpassed.”
BUGGIES, BUCK BOARDS,
—AND —
victorias;
At MANUFACTURERS’ PRICES
Send for Catalogues and Prices to
THE F. B. WHEELER CO.,
265 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
Personal Items.
Slavin is about to be married. He has
met his match at last.
A 1 o'vcly'gtr 1 TiaTiied Tiebui Ida Peed,'closely
related to the Pope, sells flowers in Buenos Ayres.
Very appropriately, Bishop Donnelly, now
visiting Sydney, is the son of a Dublin candle-
manufacturer.
“ Tummy’s ” gastritis is said to be due to
the excessive use of cigarettes and the smoking of
huge green cigars.
One of Brigand Stanley’s greatest exploits
consists in dyeing his grey hair a bright golden
when he gets to London.
President Woodruff, head of the Mormon
Church, is 82 years of age, and wears his hair and
beard very short. Experientia docct.
Sir Henry Parkes, it is announced, has
received political letters from Salisbury and John
Morley. Another sale of autographs ?
Of the barristers practising in Sydney in
the beginning of 1864 but two—G. B. Simpson
and J. E. Salomons—remain in active work.
Mr. J. E. Tonkin ought to be a good
member of the N.S.W. Public Works Committee
as he was a “ maintenance ” man in his time.
Speaking lately about Froude’s obituary
of Carlyle, Tennyson said, “Yes, when lam
dead I suppose they will rip me up like a pig. ”
David Christie Murray will remain three
months sketching in N. Z. Despite his disclaimer,
he will yet write an Australian book, as surely as
that the sun shines.
Edward M‘Glede, of Wantabadgery sta-
tion, is dead. He nearly achieved fame when
Moonlight s gang stuck up his station. Judge
Windeyer obtained it instead.
George Augustus Sala (aged 63), whose
first wife died in Australia, got married again
last week. His lady secretary was advertised as
the victim when last mail left.
At a Western police-court, a few days ago,
the father-in-law (J one of the wealthiest men in
the district was sent to gaol for three months for
having no lawful visible means of support !
The oldest country attorney in practice in
N.S. Wales is John Nepean Macintosh, who has
been located in the City of the Plains for about
a century. He paid the expense of Deniehey’s
first interment.
Chang, the Chinese giant, is on the war-
path again and may possibly pay another visit to
Australia. Chang—whose death in China was
reported some three years ago—is about ten yards
taller than Bonn or. ‘ •
H. C, Evans, after 14 years’ service, leaves
theS.A. Advertiser to run Quiz in conjunction
with A. T. Chandler, who has been on the ’Tiber
staff for six years, prior to which he was on the
Register and the Hamilton Spectator.
It is proposed to erect a memorial over
the remains of Rev. J. E. Tenison-Woods, the
eminent geologist. Father Woods was son of
Woods, Q.C., for many years one of the sub-editors
of the Times and manager of the parliamentary
staff of that paper.
Mr. H. H. Lusk, in his day a distinguished
N.Z. politician, has gained the first prize of £l5O
for the first portion of a school history of Aus-
tralasia to be used in N.S.W. Public Schools.
Mr. Jiusk will be remembered as the barrister
who so ably defended Louisa Collins, the Botany
poisoner.
The Prince of Wales is rapidly breaking
up. He lately lost a very dear female friend and
guide, his bosom friends of his own sex have
nearly all been publicly disgraced, and now his
eldest son, who has hitherto conducted himself
with the simplicity of an idio\ threatens to go
wrong utterly.
From a Sydney daily : —“ Sir Henry
Parkes has not been at his office to-day, this being
the second anniversary of his first wife’s death. ”
That an announcement of this kind should have
been printed, under all the circumstances of the
case, only shows how ripe humorists they have
on the Foreign-trade press.
Sir Francis Fortescue Turville, who in the
days of Sir John Young was private secretary
at Government House, Sydney, has died in Eng-
land at the age of 58. After the deatli of Sir John
Young(Lord Lisgar)Turville married Lady Lisgar.
He was a particular friend of Mr, Dailey, who
used to tell some good stories about him.
Prince Albert Victor, who may be King
of England one day “if the people stay foolish,”
recently stood himself a drink at the buffet of a
suburban railway-station and tendered a shilling.
He required twopence change. The smiling Hebe
hadn’t any popper, so Albert Victor, with noble
condescension, said : “Nevermind. I’ll take two
postage-stamps if you have them.”
A notoriety-hunting N.S.W. barrister, in
addressing a jury lately, reminded them a dozen
times that they were ‘ ‘ in the presence of Almighty
God and his Honor the Chief Justice.” Darley,
C.J., frowned more and more every time his name
was coupled with the Almighty’s; but he.didn’t
say anything—perhaps lest it should be thought
he was jealous about the Almighty being named
first.
The Duke or Cambridge, it is cabled,
talks of resigning the British Commandership-in-
Chief this year, and is to be succeeded by the
semi-epileptic Duke of Connaught. Than this
proposed infamous job nothing could possibly
afford a more startling illustration of the political
corruption of so-called Great Britain and the
moral decrepitude of its shamelessly nepotistic
rulers.
!t is one M the privileges of the Irish
viceroy to kiss the ladies who attend his court.
When the lady is passec, the salute generally con-
sists of a slight contact between the lips of the
Viceroy and the hair of the lady ; but frequently
the kiss is placed on the cheek —that is, when
there is no pearl-powder to be displaced—and on
more than one occasion the salute has been pressed
on the dewy lips of a charming debutante. How
nice !
Mr Salomons, Q.C., after his little “ dust”
at the Sydney Mayoral banquet, packed up his
trunk and went to Grafton (N.S.VG), where he
owns valuable town blocks —in fact, most of his
money is invested near Grafton. Some time
since, the learned gentleman expressed his inten-
tion of standing for a constituency and trying the
House of Assembly. His recent treatment by
Parkes may induce him to do so on an earlv
date.
The Marquis de Caux, for who Pattim
jilted Olympe Aguado, a Spanish banker, died
recently. The last time he and Patti met was on
the occasion of their divorce, when he was ex-
pected to put something in the poor-box on the
termination of the legal proceedings. Unfortu-
nately, he had forgotten his purse, a most singular
coincidence, for something of the same kind had
happened many times during his married life.
Patti was equal to the occasion. Advancing with
a smile she held out her purse, saying, “ For the
last time, Marquis.”
Sir William Gull, M.D., who did all the
hard work of pulling “Tummy” through his
typhoid fever, has gone where there are no more
aches or pains. Gull’s skill was an article of faith
among commercial magnates for 20 years before
he took off his coat, rolled vp his shirt-sleeves,
and rubbed life into the Heir Apparent’s cold
extremities, whereby he earned “ the gratitude of
a nation ” and a baronetcy to boot. The doctor-
ridden Australian public may be interested to
learn that Gull, at the zenith of his fame, would
gladly drive four miles from home to pick up a
four-guinea fee, which is also Sir William .Tenner’s
charge for a similar visit under ordinary circum-
stances.
When the dethroned Emperor of Brazil
and his suite settled down in their hotel at Paris
they talked so loudly and long and otherwisa
made such a noise that an American dentist, who
had rooms near theirs, was at length constrained
to send up his card to the dethroned monarch
with the following written in pencil: “Dr. Elijah
St. Depew must request the Emperor of Brazil to
make less noise discussing dynastic questions in
his sitting-room after 11 p.m. The doctor does
not keep the Emperor awake at night discussing
dental matters, so he must request the Emperor
not to keep him awake discussing Imperial. Why
should Mrs. Depew and the baby be kept awake
all night because the Brazilian people have thought
fit to do what the doctor will request the hotel
proprietor to do should this nuisance continue
any longer?”
POLITICAL POINTS
ix missing link—the one that binds us to
the mother country.
In South Australia the Parliament was
called together to elect its representatives at the
Federative Council.
Salomons, Q.C., indignantly denies that
he was ever such a fool as to say that “it wai an
honour to know Sir Henry Parkes.”
Sir Charles Gavan Duffy, ex-Young Ire-
ander, the “rebel to the backbone and spinal-
marrow,” has pronounced for Imperial Federation.
Melbourne Standard tumbled into the
A.N.A. error of describing January 2(sth as “ the
anniversary of the landing of Captain Cook in
Sydney.”
New South Wales now boasts of a “boy
politician” of her own—in the shape of one Joe
GENUINE THIS TIME.
SON AND HEIR: “ARE YOU A BARRISTER LIKE PA!”
PROFESSOR ROBINSON SMITH, LL.D., &c., &c.: “NO ! I’M A PROFESSOR?”
SON AND HEIR : “WELL, WHEN WILL YOU CUT MY HAIR ? ”
Lesina, who talks at a pressure of 2201b5. to the
square inch. We should advise the young man to
go slow and condense.
The worst of all oratorical chestnuts is
that everlasting remark that something comes, or
doesn’t come, “ within the range of practical
politics.”
It is now evident from a variety of signs
that the adoption of Premier Parkes’ scheme of
Federation would utterly burst up the N.S.W.
Foreign trade league.
The Queensland Government has told the
planters and financial institutions that it is useless
for them to look to coloured labour as a means of
relieving the sugar-industry.
Mr. Johnson, a South Australian M.L.A.,
took the cake for downright lunacy at the recent
A.N.A. conference. Johnson, who evidently
suffers from epaulettesy, advocated a compulsory
system of military service in Australia.
Treasurer M’Millan thinks Federation will
result in England stretching out one hand to
America and another to united Australasia, “and
such a combination will be irresistible.” Suppose
we suggest that America and Australasia will
each stretch out a foot to England ?
Dr Tanner, M.P. for Mid-Cork, lately
imprisoned for spitting at the police has been
sentenced to three months’ for styling Smith-
Barry, member for Huntingdon, “ a hound and a
cowardly bastard.” Tanner is a violent-tempered
man who is a most accomplished swordsman, and
is eternally inviting his political enemies over “ to
Boulogne.”
It is alleged that a certain N.S.W. Minis-
ter for Mines was asked by, a drought-stricken
people to buy a certain “tank,” which happened
to be full of water on a neighbouring run, for
public use. He wired to the P.M. to have the
tank purchased at once and carted with the water
into town ! - -
The Canadian House of Commons has
just passed a unanimous vote of loyalty to the
Crown, and transmitted the glad tidings, by
cable, to Her Gracious Majesty. Which reminds
us that Gillies sent a message home when the Vic-
torian Assembly, under L. L. Smith’s manage-
ment, howled “God Save the Queen.”
Premier Parkes’s banquet-hall statement
that Salomons, Q.C., “would not have dared” to
attack the Parkesian Federation proposals else-
where, fell very flat indeed. Parkes is as courageous
as he is cunning, but everybody is aware that
Salomons is as knowing as a barrow-load of
monkeys, and has got as much grit and fight in
him as paddock-full of wild cats.
Sydney E. News —all over which we
recognise the fist of John Haynes—is again
waving tlie_ Bloody Shirt. Knowing that the
great majority of local Catholics are, from their
acquaintance with English tariffs as against Irish
manufactures in the past, Protectionists, it dubs
Mr. H. T. Donaldson, tire secretary to the
IN.S.W. National Club, “Secretary to the Pro-
testant Union.” Mr. Donaldson, as a High
Churchman and brother to an English Canon, is
presumably not inclined to Orangeism.
A marriage has been arranged between
the Emperor of Germany’s sister, aged 17f years,
and the King of Denmark’s son, aged lIP, years.
What a blessing for the human race ! With
plenty of good living and a little good luck, this
young couple may produce ten more princes and
princesses before either of them has got out of the
“thirties.” Early marriages are bad for nations,
but grand for royal families. There is no Poverty
with them, but their rate of Progress is abnormal
a state of things which it will take Henry George
all his time to explain.
A press eorrespoddent says that “ Trea-
surer M‘Mi II an is not exactly a graceful speaker.
Mis voice is high-pitched ; his manner smacks of
the pulpit; humour, he has none.” Then follows
a statement to the effect that the M‘Million was
listened to at. his Dunedin Exhibition banquet
“with respect and sympathy,” because he had
filled ’em all right up to the neck. Rumour says
that M‘Millan will shortly resign for reasons con-
nected with his private business. Also, that the
N.S.W. Opposition has got a heavy rod lying in
pickle for him until the opening of Parliament.
Sir Samuel Griffith's attitude on the single-
tax question appears to be exactly that of the
Bulletin
Asked whether he accepted Henry George’s views on the
nationalisation of land. Sir Samuel said he was unable to
discover any flaws in George’s argument. He did not,
however, believe that land nationalisation would tie a
panacea for social wrongs, and he could not follow the
single-tax party. For one thing, the proposed single-tax
would not produce enough revenue. In an unsettled
country like New Guinea or Western Australia it would
he absurd to look for anything like a revenue from such a
source. The land nationalisationists had made a great
mistake, he thought, in changing the title of their move-
ment as they had done. In considering the social prob-
lems of the day he could not but acknowledge the justice
of the proposition that every man was entitled to the
products of Iris own labour.
Public opinion in England i; growing very
strong against ground landlordism. The increased
value of the site, caused by the outlay and pre-
sence of tenants, the laying of pavement, the
lighting of lamps, the establishment of business,
external and internal improvements to buildings,
all is confiscated, and it is calculated that Lord
Portman has lately become possessed of £1,250,000
in this fashion. A woman rented a shop upon his
estate, and spent £3OO on improvements. In
eight years the lease ran out, and she had to pay
two guineas for the privilege of reading the terms
of renewal ! They were as follow ; —Ground rent
raised from £lO to £BO ; several hundred pounds
to be spen tin improvements and decorations; and
a fine of £lOOO or 5 per cent, interest on it until it
should be paid, as it must within eight years.”
Finally, the tenant had to pay £l5 to his lordship’s
lawyer for drawing up the agreement. Australia
is not free from this curse.
“Who appointed this man Parkes and
this fellow M'Millan to represent N.S.W. at this
so-called Federation Conference?” asks old Sir
Jack Robertson. Sir Jack proceeds to point out
that, speaking in 1884 on this very question of
Federation, Parkes said :
I grant at once that the authority of. the Executive
Council is quite sufficient to constitute an intercolonial
conference for ordinary purposes ; but it is no ord nary
purpose for a conference to create, or to ask Parliament
to create, a legislative body to interfere with the powers
of the independent legislatures already existing in this
part of the world. In this case there ought to have been
a convention, the members of which ought to have been
delegated by the respective Parliaments.
“ There can be no question of that,” says Sir Jack,
“and it is not to be got over for a single instant)
by saying that former conferences were assembled
on the authority of the Executive Council! Well,
who has appointed Sir, Henry Parkes ? Himself,
1 presume. Certainly not the Parliament. Under
what instructions does he go to deal with our
rights and our liberties ? I presume he has none,
but is alone to be guided by his own sweet will.
Perhaps Sir Henry is going to the meeting, as he
once indicated was his desire, ‘ proudly and boldly,
like the eagle looking at the sun,” and depending
on the honour, &c., of N.S. Wales’ neighbours of
the north, south, and west not to filch from us
when they have the power of our most valuable
territory, which they have ever been eagerly
straining to obtain.”
“The greatest nourishing tonic appetizer,
strengthener and curative on earth—Dr. Soule’s
American Hop Bitters.”
Buddart Parker’s low steamboat-fares
threaten to revolutionise Tasmania. The whole
island now swears by the enterprising company.
Mr. Huddart has been banqueted both at Hobart
and Launceston, and the Hobart cabmen are
giving him a dinner.


'QL&lecfr&h
Ed'ifor} X C)0 JP O
SUCH IS FAME.
Why this haste? Why doth the Proigy skip up stairs six steps at a time? He has just received a letter from Lord Nubbuddy Numskull about nothing in
particular, and is hurrying to the office of his “Horgan” to have the press stopped and the letter put in.


W>W r "
c==i| © H)
"I have eaten the bread of many nations."
It is due however, to‘the Consul to state that
be always brings along his own “ butter.” And
don’t he jest spread it on good and thick neither^
It matters not'm what sphere we view the
Australian lady —sße is ever the same lovely
and incomparable creation— whether as a young
girl, as she looks out upon the world with trust- 1
ful, loving eyes, tilled with enchanting hopes and,
dreams; or aw a mother, when she looks into
eyes that bring her messages from the eternities,
when a new revelation is brought to her wotnan-
hoocTiD the eyes of her hfst-bdrn. V
n thtf k
jy/f /*) spoils
SAK.y
6iucr
Po 5 r &
'V) u ( /
Mr. Gbipfin, Consul tor the United States,
•aid, in propoeing the health hi “The Ladies:’*
The toast I have to propose, although some*
what late on the programme, is, I think, more
worthy of honour than any that has preceded it. It is
“The Ladies.” 1 have travelled in many lands, and
eaten the bread of many nations, bat I have nowhere
seen, not even in my own country, fairer and gentler
daughters of Heaven than in this “ great south land.”
Here, as in America, the circumstances incident to
pioneer life, the hardships and dangers and heroic
sacrifices that the gentler sex were called upon to make
in the early settlement of the' country have aided in
the development of the highest types of civilisation
and the most exalted examples of truo womanhood. It .
matters not in what sphere we view the Australian
lady —she is ever the same lovely and incomparable
creation —whether as a young girl, ■ as she looks out
upon the world with trustful, loving eyes, filled with
enchanting hopes and dreams; or as a mother, vfben she
looks into eyes that bring her messages from the
eternities, when a new revelation is brought to her
womanhood in the eyes of her first-born. Nor is she
less attractive in the beauty of old age, with her chil-
dren and grandchildren at her side, profiting by her i. i-
example and experiences, and by her sorrows that •
have become sacraments. To the sweet and
gentle influences of womanhood you are in-
debted more than to anything else for the
S&andeurof your character, the f lability, strength, and
fcekdom of your government, the security of your
Kbaes, and your affections, and all'the charms of your
dorjestic and private life. My toast would be incom-
if I did not include in it the name of the gentle and
gracious lady who forthe time being has become your civic
queen; a lady endowed with all the high and shining
qualities that belong to our better nature, and whose
life is beautiful through her noble charities- I
give you the name of Mri. Burdekin, the wife of your
Wimble Mayor. X fc.
% % -s
* 4
Hi
G . '''
* 9*
o
4 -*
<5
r A
€ \
“> «.
C- ?)
SUCH 1S > FAME. l 'J
Mrs. Snooks • oh t'did you morning’s Herald? There is
such a dear, delightfully, sweetly, pretty speech by that love of a
Consul Thingummy., Every lad}’ ought to cut it out and wear .t
next to her heart as 1 hq.ve I ’
Mrs. Brooks "Well. I haven’t exactly done that.'yhu know, but if tie
speeeb'was >n this morning’s Herald, -I'm sure 1: have it about me,
for that is one of the, papers I made up my : improver with this
morning I ”
A TRIBUTE TO THE FAIR.
SWIMMING' THE’RAPIDS OP’
NIAGARA.
JjWKDfis,' Sa.turc'»y— Wood,' a 'natiTe'of
AiKfiprMa, has expressed hi* intention of
s'hort.s attempting to nrim tie rapid.,'
'beknv >« ib. ear a
SwMfr ’'faecf attyprS/Sf/ijei?)
/e/tfr CoUfier." If
ft £o<fy/*ySt
fouyd /e/s bsrsj/n;
a f/rst- r&ss
h era/^f^ . ss
PUGILISTIC' ALDERMEN. 1
‘ Some czcitemeat has been caused in Canter-
bury by a fistic encounter between two of Ike
aldermen. It seems that a dispute occurred at
the revision court, when a “ set-to” was re-
solved upon to settle the difference. The
council-chamber door wag closed, clothes were
cast aside and a lively six rounds and a “ knock
out” to the finish indulged in, the rcsnit being
that the two combatants were marked about
\ the face and blood flowed pretty freely. The
seconds (two aldermen) declared the fight a
draw. The two pugilistic aldermen then shook
hands and the bnsiaess of the meeting was
proceeded with as though nothing uactual
happened.
THE ’ SCH 00
‘COUPS’ UNIBOmM.
Coqj/sts ptma-
pcltty Of ptfh
de/rnef
if \MW,f.
Ot M*}
ZP/i/?t/£S art usepteus/n^ duty // te
iCom ts' to p/vjba*re tte/oarf o/ /de /dw/stry
a/jOu&t/c dctnpue'ts' Se care/cU to fra/ dy
gray tpayyedyu/yyect cyov/y.
fe/
ft
L ass hr, 6e *l tycreasedlo
THINGS IN GENERAL.


The
Marvellous
18s. 6d.
OPTIMUS
WATCHES
The Best, Cheapest and Most Accurate Timekeepers
ever produced.
Made especially to our order by one of the leading and
most celebrated manufacturers of Watches in Switzerland,
and experience has shown that no watch is better than a
well-made Swiss one.
Gilt movements, jewelled in six holes, keyless (10 turns
to wind), enamel dials, crystal faces, well made, splendidly
finished, nickel cases that will wear excellently; in fact,
real (rood-looking', handsome little watches, and magnifi-
cent timekeepers.
Twelve months’ guarantee forwarded with every one.
Send P. 0.0. for 19s, 6d. (Is. postage), and have one
forwarded by post. If not in every way satisfactory after
a week money willingly refunded.
Only to bo obtained from
FROST <Sc SHIPHAM,
Spectacle Makers, Opticians & Electricians,
474 & 587 George Street, Sydney.
lOREIGN & COLONIAL EXCHANGE BANK
OF AUSTRALASIA, Limited,
Sydney —BG King Street.
Melbourne—3C9 Collins Street.
London Bankers—Australian Joint Stock Bank,
No. 2 King William Street, London, E.C,
Authorised Capital, £500,000.
T. S. RICHARDSON, Esq., Managing Director.
This Bank undertakes the Exchange of Money,
both International and Intercolonial, includ-
ing the Coinage ok all Foreign Nations, in
addition to all usual and customary banking busi-
ness.
Deposits Received.
3 years
12 months
0 months
3 months
Communications to be
Managing 1 )i rector.”
... per cent.
... 8 percent.
... 7 percent.
... 0 per cent,
addressed to “The
W. H. PALING & COMPANY, LIMITED,
m 7
356 George Street, SYDNEY,
0
AYR Just Opened a Magnificent Lot of New Pianos from tho celebrated Makers, Steinway, Erard, Uebel, Fcnrich, Lipp, Eonicch, Eluthner, Collard and others
Also of the wonderful Victor Pianos at £45 and Eatey Organs. No such Variety or Value elsewhere for Cash or Terms.
Society
An old man named Daniel Cooper last
week attempted suicide with a razor in Sydney,
“ because some money he expected had not come.”
In justice to both parties, The Bulletin begs to
state that the old man in question is not identical
with Sir Daniel Cooper, baronet. The latter
Daniel owns hundreds of thousands, perhaps even
millions’ worth of land in N.S.W., on which he
pays no taxes. He lives in London on the fat of
the land, and when he expects money it always
comes, and if the mail is a day overdue he never
thinks of hacking at his larnyx.
* # *
It is cabled that at the London banquet to
Miss Myra Kemble, Sir Saul Samuel, who pre-
sided, proposed the lady’s health in a speech
wherein he lauded the pugilism, cricket, sculling,
singing, and racing of Australia in the order
named. After this we are quite prepared to hear
that Slavin was in the vice-chair, and that Peter
Jackson took the fair Myra “ in ” to dinner.
* * *
Guv’nah Hopetonn was being introduced
to a big red mayoress, the other day (we don’t say
which, there being several big red mayoresses in
Australia), when the frolicsome young eighteen-
stoner gaily winked at Lady Hopetoun, and
sniggered :—“ Now don’t you go fur to be jealous,
my dear.” Another female civic dignitary, also
fat and red, at a recent reception thrust her rather
reticent hubby into prominence, and repeatedly
assured the shocked, vice-regal small boy that
she had “ made a man of him,” a sentiment well
understood in the district, the hubby having risen
from potato-grubbing after marrying her, with
her influence and that of her hotel, through all
grades of civic importance to a proud eminence in
Parliament.
# * *
The obviously absurd yarn which is going
the rounds about the magnate who, “having waved
the footman aside,’’rushed upstairs at Government
House, Sydney, and, mistaking Lady Carington
for a domestic, gave her half-a-crown to show him
where the Governor was, “ as he wanted to plea-
santly surprise his Excellency,’’was first told nearly
50 years ago of Lady Mary Fitzroy and a certain
wealthy Sydney ironmonger who wanted Govern-
ment House trade, and it has been re-hashed for
every Governor ever since. R.I.P.
* *
A Sydney doctor with a big obstetric prac-
tice and a large grown-up family, who verges on
three-score-and-ten, has just married a lady in the
twenties. Good old doctor !
•** * .
On the way to Ballarat, Governor Hope-
toun was stuck up by a doting old female who -
“ wanted to see the earl.” When she did see
him she was “ surprised at his youthful appear-
ance,” and he told her that he had whiskers once,
but, as they were something the colour of a fox’s,
the Countess had made him shave them off.—
When Hopetoun went a-wooing
II is pallid cheeks were bare,
Said he, “ ’Twill aid my suing
If I can grow some hair.”
He rubbed in tins of kerosene
And castor-oil. God save the Queen !
In time, with frequent rubbing,
The hair of Hopetoun grew ;
1 lo rested from the scrubbing
And ran his fingers through—
“ Such lovely whiskers ne’er were seen,
1 11 Ft ’em grow ; God save the Queen ! ”
With graceful genuflection
I le told his lordly love.
And swore that his affection
Was not a “ feint,” by Jove !
The lady took the lordling green ;
She’s Countess now. God save the Queen !
It was a union “ bloody,”
But hint she quickly gave—
His whiskers were too ruddy ;
She ordered him to shave !
As well as young, she liked ’em clean,
The whiskers went. God save the Queen !
That’s all. His whiskers foxy
Fell o’er the-barber’s sheet ;
He grows hair now by proxy
Upon his gilded suite.
Democracy’s a razor keen,
And earls are hairs. God save the Queen !
# * #
Widowers who advertise for ‘‘ good plain
cooks ” generally prefer them pretty—and not so
good neither.
# * *
Lady Hopetoun returned from Tasmania,
“all of a suddint,” after the Age had stated that
the new Victorian Governor was rather mad
about some “arrangements,” and didn’t intend
that the family should spend much money in the
colony. It was originally understood that Lady
H. was off for the summer, instead of for a fort-
night merely. By the way, the noble countess
had a terribly tedious time of it crossing the
Straits. Her attendant aide-de-camp generally
left her to herself, because he had to lean over the
rail and say “Whoop !” and when on duty his
conversational powers couldn’t carry him much
farther than “ Haw ! ” Of course the noble
countess wasn’t on speaking terms with the
common, or garden, kind of passengers : so she.
had to 101 l back in a deck chair and sigh to the
briny breeze. The other females sat around, at a
respectful distance, and said “ poor thing ! ”
# # *
Lord Porchester, the Earl of Carnarvon’s
son, is surprised to find the Australian climate so
dweadfully hot. His Lordship has been perspir-
ing so fweely, dem it. Which reminds us that
the perspiration’of these noble visitors ought to be
caught in a bottle and raffled among our first
families.
*# - #
In a recent Sydney affiliation case the de-
fendant while not disclaiming the authorship was
averse to the assumption of the entire responsibility
and so when Mr. Roberts asked him quietly— “ In
the event of us floating the concern into a limited
liability company how many shares are you pre-
pared to take up ? ” the court was convulsed,
bench, bobbies, witnesses, solicitors and the press
fairly howled, and even the plaintiff, a somewhat
stolid-looking girl, grinned comprehensively. .
ď
d
đ
W ■ -
, ' ‘ 1* i / ;
No. 1—Here you have old Mr.
Dippsniffe composing a billet doux
to the Widow Fitzwogge, and taking
snuff like anything.
No. 2—“Dear soul!” exclaimed
the Widow, when she received the
the letter, kissing it passionately.
No. 3—“O my gracious me!
he’s got the influenzer an’ I’ve
caught it from his letter!” she
cried. sneezing violently. Bid. it, was only gome particle of the snuff that old Dipsniffe had dropped
upon the letter in t he agonies of composition.
Two young fellows went into Woodward’s
the other evening and were just finishing their
plates of oysters, when a heavy swell, more than
half-drunk, brought himself to an anchor at the
same table and called for a “raw.” When the
waiter returned he found the swell lying asleep
with his face on his folded arms, but he dumped
down the oysters and left them there in front of
him in the hope of a resurrection. As soon as one
of the youths had finished, he coolly pushed over
his empty plate and annexed that belonging to the
slumbering nobleman, ate the oysters, and walked
out. When the nobleman awoke he called for
cayenne and prepared for action, but to his dis-
gust found only a mass of empty shells to work
upon. “Well, this beats Sheol!” he murmured,
“ I don’t recollect eating ’em ” —and then he paid
his shilling like a man and departed. The merit
of the anecdote does not lie so much in its truth
as in the Circumstance that we have told an oyster-
story without once mentioning the “succulent
bivalve.” *
# * *
A Sydney matrimonial advt. :
IyTATRIMONIAL. —A gentleman, 38, would like to
■f’-*- meet a lady, not over 35. He would make a
faithful husband, and wishes to extend his business.
Address, &c.
He couldn’t have put it more neatly. You can’t
well extend a business without the filthy lucre.
A farewell banquet to bookmaker Alf,
Joseph was attended by the rural Dean of Sand-
hurst and one or two other parsons. The clergy
beamed upon Alf.’s broad expanse of flabby cheek
and probably tnoug'ht “ what’s the odds, as long
as he contributes a portion of his profits to the
blessed Church ?”
# # #
When is a barmaid not a barmaid ?
# * #
At the Warrnambool (Vic.) hospital ball
the other night, the band struck work at the
height of the revelry and put in a demand for
more drinks, which being refused, they took up
their brass instruments and left the festive scene.
Each player was limited to two drinks. A vigor-
ous musician would blow two drinks through his
bassoon in five minutes.
* # *
A clergyman on a lecturing tour lately
touched at the rising town of Warrnambool (Vie.)
and gave a poetical address to the bald elders,
good young men, and gushing dames and damsels
who make up the congregations of the local kirk.
When well under way in fiery denunciation of
evil and its father, Beelzebub, the orator took
occasion to remark in a quivering voice ; “ Take
the word ‘ sin ’ itself, my dear friends. You can-
not speak it without the very hiss of the serpent.”
An impious member of the congregation now scof-
fingly suggests to us that it is a poor rule that
won’t work two ways. Pronounce the word
“ sister ” and you will get the same old serpent’s
hiss that so horrifies the godly ; the hiss of the
serpent is also heard in the word “ parson,” and
there are at least two hideous smacks of the reptile
in the words “ Presbyterian minister.”
** ■ #
Yet another young Melbourne man has
got into trouble through a boldly stolen kiss.
When asked why he had violently embraced Mrs.
Briggs, the pretty shopkeeper, he simply said :
“She was so handsome a woman that 1 couldn’t
resist the temptation.” They offered him bail in
£2O, but he said he was a stranger without money,
and so he disconsolately went to the cells. The
Bulletin doesn’t think much of Mr. Briggs, who,
were he a truly gallant and enthusiastic man,
would surely not have pressed the charge after
so complete an apology. We were once in a
police-court where a pretty milliner prosecuted a
clerk for “assault to kiss ” as the Americans put
it. The prosecutrix mercifully backed down at the
last moment, and was leaving the court when the
paternal beak said to the defendant : “ Surely yo«
owe this lady an apology !” “ I love her so much,”
said the cranky clerk, “that I can’t apologise.
If I had the chance I’d kiss her every time.”
“Well, if you want to kiss a young lady you
might surely ask her to let you,” continued the
Bench. “ I’m going to follow her home now and
ask her to let me,” said the cranky clerk. “ Oh,”
said the sergeant of police, “ are you ! Don’t you
think I’d better see this young lady home, your
worship ?”
* * *
“Mr. Russell, a reporter on the Thargo-
mindah Herald, was assaulted to-day by a
woman with a nullah-nullah. The assailant con-
sidered herself insulted because her name did not
appear as the belle of a recent ball.” —(Daily
paper)
BENEDICT’S BALLAD, WITH CHORUS OF
OLD BACHELORS.
(After Phyllis and the Old Women, in “Dorothy”)
’Tis true, when wooing days are o’er,
And honeymoons begin to wane,
A fellow finds his wife a bore
And longs to see the Club again ;
For turtle-doveing makes men tired,
One gets too much of wedded bliss—
What poet’s pen was e’er inspired
To praise the matri-monial kiss ?
(Chorus of Old Bachelors) —
Ha, ha, ha ! poor little dear,
Say “ good-bye ” to your cakes and beer.
Ha, ha, ha ! they all sin-n-g thus ;
Better, by far, to be one of us-s-s.
The red-hot love of courtship-time
Which burnt my breast all day and night,
Grows cool, and as.we near our prime
The nuptial fire scarce keeps alight.
But whispered vows are wond’rous sweet,
More sweet than bachelors can know—
I’d ask no more than to repeat
My raptures ev-e-ry year, or so.
(Chorus) —
Ha, ha, ha ! poor lit-tle dear,
He doesn’t say that when Ma til da’s near.
Ha, ha, ha ! not twelve m-o-o-nths wed,
And the gilt is off the gin-n-ger-r-bread.
E. FISHER.
“THE POET'S LAST DREAM.”
v “ Sir William Robinson has composed a new
song, “ The Poet’s Last Dream.” —Daily Paper.
He lay upon his stubble bed,
And tossed in dreamy glee,
His large carbuncled nose was red.
His eyes we could not see,
But tit his waking moments they
Displayed the sheen of rum,
V Just like the pig-fish eyes that play
At the Aquarium.
: The room was poorly furnished, and
The poet's face was pale—
The sticks in which the candles stand
Last night held British ale,
So tapers burn o’er dead marines
In many humble cots,
And prove regret for good “ have-beens ”
Is even strong in sots.
The feckless bard gave reckless bounds
And jerked his fists about,
And offered in two lively rounds
To knock a dozen out;
And then he yelled and wildly smote
A pillow in the wind,
And peeked off an imagined coat,
And knocked his missus blind.
The lady seized the water-jug
And stamped the dreaming bard,
And towed him out upon the rug,
And dumped his head down hard ;
She clawed his blonde complexion raw,
And, careless of his cries,
She took a woman’s vengeance for
Her dislocated eyes.
Then, giant-like, from slumber rose,
That poet fat and fair,
To give his wife prolonged repose
He clubbed her with a chair,
And groaned aloud like one illstarred,
Returning to his bunk :
“ It’s sin to wake the broken bard
Who’s dreaming he is drunk ! ”
FOTIS, THE BELLR OF THARG[?]
Let ns sing a ballad sad—
Thar-go-min-dah’s sweetest daughter
Has been treated shameful bad
By the Herald’s “ own reporter,”
Who did not (as was his duty)
Write a column on her beauty.
She was “ daisy ” of the ball,
Yet that Herald villain’s notice
Hardly gave a word at all
To—suppose we call her “Fotis.”
Girls with fewer charms supernal,
They were buttered in the journal.
Nought about her eyes or hair ;
Or her mouth, or beetle-crushers !
Fotis, fairest of the fair,
Overlooked, while giddy gushers—
Freckled things with vulgar features—
Were described as lovely creatures !
When she gaeed on that report
Fotis felt, O ! so disgusted :
She began to sniff and snort,
And her bosom nearly busted.
Breathing hard and changing colour,
Fotis fetched her nullah-nullah.
Putting on her reddest gown,
Over her best Sunday bustle,
Fotis ran around the town
Till she spotted Mister Bussell.
And the blood of that reporter
Trickled down the street like water.
Ere the scribe could turn about,
Giving him “ what for ” she kep’ on :
In the eye and on the snout
Fotis “stoushed him ” with her weapon
Shrieking forth in accents vicious—
“ You know I always look delicious!”
When another hop takes place
In the Thargomindah quarter,
You can bet rvhosc form and face
Will delight our own reporter.
The “belle ” to get the longest notice
Will be, don’t you think, Miss Fotis?


The SYDNEY DEPOSIT BANK,
90 KING STREET —9O %
Established 1885.
Agencies in London and throughout Australia.
Overdrafts granted against Deposit of Deeds,
and all the usual banking business transacted.
The following are the Rates of Interest allowed,
for Fixed Deposits
3 Years
12 Months
6 Months
3 Months
9| per cent.
8| per cent.
71 per cent,
per cent.
f per cent, allowed on daily balance of current account.
For the past Four (4) Years a Bonus of One per
Cent, has been paid in addition to the above rates.
This is the first and only Bank in the Colonies
which divides its profits with its depositors.
Communications from the country will be
promptly attended to.
T. S. RICHARDSON,
General Manager.
m p
m
Watch. Manufacturer & Jeweller,
813 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
(Nearly opposite Railway Station).
For Watches and Jewellery , send for my Price List
(Illustrated). J'ost Free.
20s.
Tub Unrivalled Keyless Watch.
Guaranteed. Post Free.
20s.
Gbnt.’s English Levers (full cap) from £3 10s.
Ladies’ Beautiful Silver Watches from £1 10s.
Gold Watches and Jewellery of every description.
Country Residents and Visitors to Sydney call or send
to A. SAUNDERS, 813 George Street (nearly opposite
Railway Station), SYDNEY.
WHY YOU SHOU&B USE!
Scott’s Emulsion
02?<O<O€3. CM3L v«?a
HYFOPHOSPHITIS.,
St is used and endorsed by Physic
cians because it is the best ,
It is Palatable as Milk.
It is three times as efficacious as plain
Ood Liver Oil.
It is far superior to all other so-sailed
Emulsions.
It is a perfect Emulsion, does not sepa-
rate or change.
It is wonderful as a flesh producer.
It is the best remedy for Consumption,
Scrofula, Bronchitis, Wasting Bis-
eases, Chronic Goughs and Golds,
Sold by all Chemists.
SCOTT & BOWME, New York.
Roberts on’s * a °°
GIVEN AWAY IN THE COLONIES
as follows:
1G of £5 each, 25 £2, and 70 £l,
Pamphlets from the Agents,
ALLT & OO
Limited,
CHARLOTTE PLACE. SYDNEY
From sorrowful statements made at recent
Wesleyan Methodist conferences it appears that
Young Australia takes no interest whatever m,
foreign missions. Probably because everybody
has noticed how the local poor black brudders
have been wiped out by the great Botany Bay
Mission, started, in 1788.
* * *
A deadlock has arisen in connection with
the appointment of a Bishop of Christchurch and
New Zealand is languishing for the want of a
Primate. Meantime naughty old Nicodemus is
raking in New Zealand souls, nineteen to the
dozen. # m *
The girl slanderously spoken of as “no
tetter than she ought to be ” is apt to turn out
one of the very best sort you can find.
# * *
The Melbourne Gas Company has reduced
its rate to 4s. 7d.—a lower rate than is charged
for the protected article in any other Australian
colony —and declared a dividend ° f IJa 1*
cent. While the police are ogling eooks a d ai-
resting small boys for swearing, these g ™at; gas-
light robberies continue to be carried on under 1
fluential patronage.
* yip' * *
Certain Queensland mining stocks are
religiously underquoted (when no actual sales have
to be returned) by Melbourne papers. It fre-
quently happens that brokers vainly offer a 10 per
cent higher price than the “buyers” of next
norning’s “Share Market. ’
# * *
The Melbourne battalion of the Harmy
las commenced its attack upon the “ masses who
ire rushing to destruction ” by ordering small de-
tachments of female infantry to capture the ocal
police. Down at Richmond the other day, about
forty little Hallelujah darlings, armed with poke
bonnets and wind instruments, persuaded two
constables to hold a parley with their sweet girl
“ Captain ” respecting the necessity for moving
on Whereupon the Captain tipped her followers
the wink, and they all flopped down on their
knees and prayed aloud for the two official sons ot
Belial now in their midst. The confusion of those
verdant “ bobbies,” cut off from the outer world
by a circle of virgins on their dear little marrow-
bones, was pathetic. They couldn’t turn it into a
game of kiss-in-the-ring for fear of interrupting
divine worship, so they waited until the congrega-
tion arrived at “ Amen,” and then made a mad
bolt for freedom, just as the “ Captain was about
to take up a collection.
* * *
The Canadian Parliament has decided to
grant 100 acres of land in the Province of Quebec
to parents who have not less than twelve childien.
The great ambition of every father will be to com-
plete his dozen at that period of the year when his
100 acres are not ten feet deep in snow.
A man minus bairns at Quebec
In debt may get up to his neck,
But big family -makers
Will scoop all the acres,
When each babe is as good as a cheque. ,
Charles Rivers Allpress, the absconding
accountant charged with stealing £BOOO from the
Colling wood branch of the Commercial Bank, has
been arrested in London, where he has been living
in great style as 6 * Lord Annitage. In England
if you call yourself John Smith you are pretty
sure to be found, because there are only two or
three million John Smiths in the kingdom ; but if
you call yourself “ Lord ” somebody, the disguise
is usually most effectual-lords now being as
common in England as lodging-house fleas. It is
safe to say that there is not a living man per-
sonally acquainted with more than a small per-
centage of the British peerage. Allpress’s arrest
under the circumstances is a singular example of
the irony of fate.
* * *
Country hospital subscribers should keep
clergymen off the committees, then things would
go-much more smoothly. The clergyman’s place
is to dodge the devil at the bed-side of the patient
if he be asked. An Act of Parliament bars clergy-
men being directors of Sydney hospital, exceptions
being made in favour of three, who are appointed
for life having rendered eminent services in days
gone by.
# # *
The mushroom cities surrounding Mel-
bourne are tiring of separation, and are asking to
be annexed by Fitzgibbon. Eitzroy, with a
recently-completed Town Hall, is discussing the
superior advantages to be gained by being merely
a ward.
The gaol warders at Johannesburg, South
Africa, "have been discharged. The authorities
did not so much mind criminals being allowed
out nightly to meet their wives and sweethearts,
but they had at last to draw the line at tea-parties
being given inside the walls and at the giving of
picnics in which warders and prisoners took part.
Such a state of things reminds one that in ; old
Darlinghurst under the Keck regime, confinees
used to slip out of gaol, commit burglaries in
Woolloomooloo and return to quod by morning.
Mrs. Shepherd’s Young Husband.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.)
“Shepherd, my hoy, there’s your mother
looking for you everywhere,” said my office mate,
Gardiner, rushing up to me one day at the last
Sydney Agricultural Society’s Show.
“Mother be hanged!” said I, “ she’s not my
mother.”
“ Not your mother ! Then who is she ? They
call her Mrs. Shepherd.”
“So, she is Mrs. Shepherd-she’s my wife,
worse luck. You don’t ask how I came to marry
spch an old frump, but,l’ll tell you. Some three
years ago I was coming away from the Sydney
Association Cricket Ground. There were bicycle-
sports .and footracing going on, of which I was
soon tired, so I left eaxdy, and just as I got across
the Randwick Road I saw a girl in front of me evi-
dently frightened at something close at hand. _ I
looked round and perceived two mobs of larrikins,
converging, as it were, towards her. I could see
at a glance that they had no intention of inter-
fering with the lady, save perhaps passing
a word of comment upon her appearance. I
walked quickly up to her side, and she was
on the point of screaming for help, but a second
furtive glance was sufficient to show her that I
was not one of the larrikins. 1 spoke to her
soothingly and assured her of my protection in
case she was interfered with. She thanked me as
well as her fears would allow, and I told her not
to mind the larrikins, but to look straight ahead.
She followed my advice, and gradually we got into
conversation upon ordinary topics.
# * *
There was but one path to Redfern, and
the larrikins followed along behind us. As I have
said, I knew right well that they had no intention
of molesting us —in fact, I have never in all my
life seen a larrikin behave rudely to a lady ; they
lived in the same direction as we were going, but
THE AUSTRALIAN ABROAD-IN PARIS.
AUSTRALIAN (wishing to air his French): “DIDONG, GARSONG, DONNEY
MOAH UN TASS DO CAFFAY, SIYOOPLAY.”
WAITER (just imported from London, especially to wait on English visitors): “SCUSE
ME, SIR, I DOT'T SPEAR FRENCE."
AUSTRALIAN; "THEN, DAMA IT! SEND SOME ONE WHO CAN."
it suited me to let my new acquaintance imagine
my protection was necessary for her safety, it
was shortly after the Mount Rennie affair, and the
poor girl thought she had been rescued, m a
most providential manner, from terrible ui-
usage. My companion was Miss Leila Woocl-
burn, and we had previously known one another
very well by sight, as I had often seen her as 1
passed her place in Bourke-street, on my way to
business. I had long wished for an opportunity
to make her acquaintance, as she was very nice-
looking, and I heard she had money. You can
bet your life I was glad of the chance which the
occurrence in the park afforded me. I told her
my name (which she happened to know already),
let her understand how important my services
were to the paternal government which I served,
and, finally, saw her to her home. After strong-
solicitation I promised to take an early oppor-
tunity of calling and receiving her mothers
thanks for my very great kindness. Barkis was
willin’. It was, therefore, not long betore I called
as I had promised.
* * *
My mind was very soon made up as to
what I should do. If Miss Woodburn had money I
would marry her, that is if she would have me.
Without money I would not marry anyone. Here
was a pretty girl, very nice, too, with plenty of
money, at least so I surmised. Yes, Barkis was
willin’. Mother and daughter lived m one of a
terrace of six houses which I fancied belonged
to Mrs. Woodburn. At all events I made certain
6f one house by casually asking the matron how it
was she did not live up the line, at Summer Hill,
Rookwood, or some other niee suburb. She told me
that, as the house was their own, it was much
better to live in it than to pay rent elsewhere and
be subject to the chance of having their own place
empty. Not long after this I saw a bill in one of
the windows of another house in the terrace to the
effect that the house was to be let; enquire of
Poliin and Co. Now I happened to know Jack
Pollin very well, and I soon was in possession of
the information that the Woodburns owned two
houses in that terrace, as well as five houses
further up the street, and that their rent-roll was
at least £(i00 a year. Whether the mother or the
daughter owned the property or whether both
were interested he could not say—he only knew
that he took his instructions from Mrs. Woodburn.
# * *
I was not in love. lam not one of that
sort; but I liked Leila very well, and I know she
liked me. There was one drawback to the success
of my suit. I had commenced operations on the
family by paying the dowager a good deal of
attention, thinking it well to secure her goodwill.
I soon perceived that the old lady would like a
sweetheart of her own, and was not prepared to let me
see much of her daughter, except in her company.
She was all very well in her own way, but my
twenty-five years would better assimilate with the
daughter’s twenty-two than with the mother’s
forty-four. I had made up my mind to have Leila,
provided she had some means —half the property
would do—for 1 could manage very well on an
extra £3OO. The matter was beginning to worry
me, when one day I heard that anyone could
ascertain about property inherited by reading the
wills at the Registrar-General’s office. The idea
came to me as a revelation, and I accordingly
paid my half-crown and perused the last will and
testament of Aaron Woodburn, late of Sydney.
I had fortified myself with particulars concerning
the father, which I had obtained from Leila ■
the old woman would not talk about the dear
departed—so I knew I had the right document.
* * *
The will was a simple affair, drawn up by
the testator, and was in his own handwriting. It
set forth that he bequeathed the whole of his
property to his dearly beloved wife Amy, who was
appointed sole executrix. The will had been duly
proved and administered to, and so my friend,
Mrs. Amy Woodburn, was_ in the enjoyment of
her late husband’s accumulations. Leila apparently
had not a copper, excel.' what her mother choose
to allow her, and was. consequently no match for
me. Would the old woman do instead of the
daughter—that was the question. _ Pooh ! I said
to myself at first, I want something young and
nice. “But the old party has the money,” said
the tempter at my elbow. “Yes, and I’ll have
it too,” quoth I. For a week or so I vacillated,
between giving the affair up and asking Mrs.
Woodburn to marry me. I even went so far as
to consult a legal friend as. to the validity of the
will, and,was laughed at for my foolishness. The
will was as good as if the whole legal profession
had been engaged for six months in drawing it up.
That settled the matter.
# # *
I paid a few more visits to Bourke-street,
taking care to pay most direct attention to the
widow, to Leila’s great discomfiture. At parting the
old lady used to squeeze my hand desperately. Was
aught half so sweet as love’s young dream? And
so it happened. I asked the mother to have me
and she had me—had me on toast. I met her one
livening'just after tea and we went round to the
Rev. Dr. Beg’s and were duly married. Yum-
yum, you say. There’s no yum-yum about it.
Look at her over there. She looks passable, when
you see her back elevation from this distance of
fifty yards, but her face . Oh ! let us talk
about something else. ”
“ But what did Leila say about it?”
“Well, when we got back to Bourke-street that
night she cried bitterly and left the house. But
she is not a bad sort ; we have the house rent-free,
and the old woman owned the furniture.”
“Was not the will O.K. ?”
“ The will was all right, but old Woodburn had
little or nothing to call his own, so he might well
leave it to the old girl. It turned out that Leila
had all the property, which had been willed to her
by an uncle, who died about five years before old
Woodburn. I found all this out within a week of
our marriage, and have not seen Leila since, but
she wrote to her mother, telling her that she could
remain in the house without paying. Come and
let us have a drink, and then I wish you would go
back and tell old Mother Shepherd I have gone
down the town to play billiards. She knows hex
way home, or ought to by this time.
HENRY SIRBEL.
Ah, she was like a tiny bird,
Too slender for this world,
Her voice, so soft, you scarcely heard,
Her locks in ringlets curled.
I thought that she would fade away,
So thin was she and pale ;
She shuddered every chilly day,
Like a leaf before the gale.
I’ve seen her after twenty years,
A buxom, red-faced queen.
I saw her, ’mid the mob’s wild cheers,
On a “ take-your-weight ” machine.
I saw the apparatus break,
I heard it giving way,
She’s twenty stone, my oath I’ll take ;
She will not fade away !
Body Snatching.
TORN FROM THE GRAVE.
An extraordinary case has lately come under our
notice. It appears the Mr. H. A. Crane, who
travels over this and the adjacent colonies in the
interests of one of the largest importing firms in
this city, and therefore is a well-known man all
over the colonies, has lately been in very in-
different health. He had suffered from a severe
shaking at the Windsor Railway Smash, and had
been under the treatment of the best physicians
in Melbourne and Sydney. The most troublesome
symptom was Neuralgia, which was excruciatingly
painfuly; he had been a sufferer from this com-
plaint on and off for years, but since the accident
he had suffered ten times worse than ever. He
consulted physician after physician without
benefit ; they told him amongst them, he had
every complaint from atrophy of the liver to heart
disease. His case was so remarkable that we give
his own version of it in his own words, consider-
ing that he has had a miraculous escape from
acute suffering, if not from an untimely grave.
He says : —•
For the last seven years I have been a vi- tim to the
most excruciating agony from neuralgia, and also suffered
from extreme nervousness. I tried hundred of so-called
specifics but without avail, and, being a commercial
traveller, am particularly liable to cold from exposure to
draughts, &c. ; a slight one even always fled to my facial
nerves and caused acute neuralgic pains, preventing sleep
and causing excessive sympathetic headache. I saw
CLEMENTS’ TONIC advertised, procured a bottle, and in
two days the pain was completely cured- a consummation
1 had never expected, and am deeply thankful for same.
This was four months ago, and from then till now I have
never had the slightest twinge of the exorutiating torture
I used to have. You may make what use of this you like.
Yours gratefully,
HENRY A. CRANE.
We also received similar letters from T. Garrett,
Esq., M.P., who says: —“He has found
Clements’ Tonic a great aid to appetite and
digestion,” and from Mrs. Whalley, who was
quite worn out, tired, weak, and unable to move.
She took seven bottles of Clements’ Tonic, and
now can eat, work, and sleep, and is stronger than
ever before. . .
We could go on like this with evidence that
proves the value of Clements’ Tonic in acute
diseases right down the column, and then for
yards over the edge of the paper, so inhaustable
is our supply of influential and positive endorse-
ment. We will send full particulars of the diseases
Clements’ Tonic is suitable for on receipt of your
name and address. F. M. CLEMENTS, NEW-
TOWN, SYDNEY.
A mail at Campbell’s River, N.S.W., lias
been brought three times to the church-door by
the same girl and has “ jibbed ” each time.


“XUe leading Packet Tea in New South Wales
is the Famous Billy Tea. Its consumption is
at least double that of any other brand in the
market.”
PACKED ONLY BY
James Inglls «Vc Co.,
4*6 Peaks Place, SYDNEY.
CAUTION.
LOOK OUT FOE, FEAUDS.
Owing to the success of Dr. Soule’s
American: Hop Bitters in caring all diseases
of the Liver, Stomach, Bowels, Blood, Kid-
neys and Urinary Organs, Nervousness,
Sleeplessness, and Female Complaints, so
that it has become a standard household
remedy all over the world, and the immense
demand for the original and genuine article,
certain persons are offering for sale various
cheap and spurious preparations under the
name of “ Hop Bitters ” which do not
contain the medicinal properties found only
in Dr. Soule’s American Hop Bitters.
Take none of the cheap bogus stuff simply
because it is called “Hop Bitters.”
TRUTHS.
Dr. Soule’s American Hop Bitters are the
Purest and Best Bitters ever made.
They are compounded from Hops, Buchu, Man-
drake and Dandelion— the oldest, best, and most
valuable medicines in the world, and contain all the best
and most curative properties of all other bitters, being
the greatest Blood Purifier, Liver Regulator, and
Life and Health Restoring Agent on earth. No disease
or ill health can possibly long exist where these Bitters
are used, so varied and perfect are their operations.
They give new life and vigour to the aged and fnfirm.
To all whose employments cause irregularity of the
bowels or urinary organs, or wdio require an appetizer,
tonic, or mild stimulant, these Bitters are invaluable,
being highly curative, tonic and stimulating, without
intoxicating.
REMEMBER.
£5OO (Five hundred pounds) will be paid for
any case that Dr. Soule’s American Hop Bitters
will not cure or help.
See that each bottle bears genuine label
bunch of green hops on white paper with
black letters.
None other genuine. Take no other.
WHY
YOU SHOULD USE
LARMER’S
CELEBRATED
HEALTH-GIVING
AND
INVIGORATING TONIC.
It is used and endorsed by all Physicians
because it is the best.
It is superior to all other Tonics.
For the Liver, Kidneys and Blood it has
no equal.
It is wonderful as a Flesh Producer.
It is the best remedy for Wasting Diseases,
Sick Headaches, Bilious Complaints, Fever,
and Ague, N euralgia, &c.
Price, 2s 6d and ss; By post, Is extra.
PREPARED ONLY BV
CAINS & CO., Chemists.
78 KING STREET.
For Sale by all Chemist.
M. W. A Co.
GB. MODINI, Gunmaker, informs his Customers
• and the Public in general that he has the largest
assortment of Firearms in the colony. Qualities and prices
to defy competition. Agent for the following celebrated
gunmakers J. Purdky ft Sons, Ch. Boswell, John Rioby
and Co., Joseph Lang ft Sons, Ch. Osborne ft Co., Thomas
Bland ft Son. A large assortment of various other makers
always on hand, viz., W. W. Greener, Scott, Wkblby,
Hollis ft Sons, Riley and Cabhmorb. All goods will be
faithfully guaranteed at 602 George-streot, Sydney.
Price list on application.
Furniture, &e.
'N EWTON AND LAMB.
FURNITURE and PIANOFORTE
WAREHOUSEMEN,
CABINETMAKERS, UPHOLSTERERS
AND
BEDDING MANUFACTURERS.
SHOW KOOMS AND MANUFACTORY:
SPRING AND O’CONNELL STREETS.
EASY CHAIRS, for Parlour, Library, or Bed-
rooms, new designs, covered to order, in
any material.
by R. LIPP and SOHN,
NEUFELD and other Celebrated
makers at WHOLESALE PRICES. Newton
and Lamb,
AGATELLE BOARDS, Portable, various
sizes.
B
BEDROOM SUITES, complete, in various
Woods and very handsome designs, with
teet Wardrobes, or with smaller Wardrobes for
single rooms. Great variety.
NEWTON and LAMB,
Furniture Warehousemen,
SPRING AND O’CONNELL STREETS.
BED BODM SUITES, fashionable early
English designs—Wardrobe 4 feet, with
silvered plate-glass door : Washstand, with mar We
top and tile back, Towel Rail; Toilet Table,
with Swing, Glass attached; and Two Cane-
oeated Ghairs, 14 guineas.
NEWTON & LAMB,
O Connell and Spring Streets.
UTtfl'i T HI||
Canvas folding
COTS, for camping:
out. A cheap occasional
bed light, strong, and
handy, 10s. 6d.
Newton & Lamb.
D
INING TABLES, with patent extending
screws, from 5 feet long and up to 20 feet.
W A £wli'L TEL , Esc 0 p 1 c dining
i with extra leaves, stronerlv
made, £3 10s. p •
N
DURNfTURE, and
TTVmS HAIRS - LARGE ASSORTMENT.
WTON & LAMB.
P IBRARY EURNITITRE, CENTRE and
JU SIDE TABLES, BOOKCASES, SECRE
TARIES, READING and LOUNGE CHAIRS.
COMMODE CHAIRS, BIDETS, with Pan
SHAVING STANDS, NEWTON and
LAMB.
JAPANESE, BLINDS, White or Green (extra
quality), fitted with pulleys and cord, 6xB
6s. 6d.; 8 x 8, 95.; 9 x 8,9 s. 6d.; 10 x 8,10 s. 6d.’
12 xB, 12s. 6d.; 12 x 10, 15s. Newton & Lamb,
1 urniture Warehousemen, Spring and O’Connell
Streets.
EASY CHAIRS for Parlour, Library or Bed-
rooms. New Designs covered to order in
any material. Newton & Lamb.
S
ELF-ADJUSTING CHAIR and COUCH
1 for Invalids and Medical Men.
Ifc
OCRING EASY CHAIRS, elegant and
restful—a speciality. , Newton k Lamb.
.si
MERICAN PATENT
SHUT UP
CLOTHES DRYER.
135 feet of hanging space.
Ykky Cheap.
NEWTON and LAMB.
d
ANYAS FOLDING
CHAIKS.
Substantial and Light.
Suitable for Shipboard and
Verandah.
Price Vicky Low.
NEWTON and LAMB
Furniture Warehousemen,
Spring and O'Connjcli, Streets.
GARDEN SEATS, 6ft. long, Rustic Cast-iron
Standards, 14s. Gd., 195., 255., 325. 6d.
Newton ami Lamb.
Yerandah chairs.
INDIAN LONG ARM LOUNGES.
X> ATTAN VERANDAH LOUNGES, from
X\j 155.; and large variety of Chairs, from
10s. 6d.; special designs, extra quality. Newton
and Lamb, Furniture Warehousemen, Spring and
O’Connell Streets.
vTe wt o n an d lam b:
FURNITURE and PIANOFORTE
W AREHGUSEMEN,
CABINETMAKERS, UPHOLSTERERS
AND
BEDDING MANUFACTURERS.
Show Rooms and Manufactory :
SPRING and O’CONNELL STREETS.
MABEL MAY
You needn’t be jealous, Marj
I bowed to a ladv —Well I
Gall her a lady ?—Surely;
Wait till her tale I tell.
You say she’s a working woman,
Looks like a sempstress—true,
And I’ve nothing to say when you mutter
She’s not any better than you.
Her dress was a trifle shabby,
Her bonnet was not the style,
Yet the lady I bowed to, Mary,
Was the belle of the old Argyll—
The famous place that you’ve heard of,
It’s been shut this many a day ;
But its queen, when its fame was greatest,
Was the beautiful Mabel May.
How did I know her, Mary ?
Well, hardly by going there;
I was only a private soldier,
And I hadn’t much cash to spare,
But we had in the Fifty-seventh
A Captain Dashton then—
“ Dare-devil Dash,” they called him,
The officers and the men.
Not a nice name to go by—
Not a nice name to hear—
Spoken, say, half in wonder,
And half with a sort of sneer.
I was his soldier-servant,
And that’s how I knew him first;
But it wasn’t the Fifty-seventh
That saw him at his worst.
He was always a fastish fellow,
Always a devil-may-care,
And the games that he played in barracks
Made some of the boldest stare.
1 >rink ! I should think so, rather —
It was brandy morning and night;
J le’d drink till he lost his reason -
He’s given me many a fright.
The drink seemed to make him “ vicious,**
Vicious as horses are :
Up with his heels in a minute,
And look out for the splinter-bar.
Look out for the trap and coachman,
And bet on a tidy smash—
You never knew what would happen
If you started Dare-devil Dash,
I ve seen his room of a morning,
After he had broken out
I n one of his awful frenzies,
Just like a shelled redoubt.
The chairs and tables and glasses
Lying about in bits—
Why, he’d shoot at himself in the mirror
In one of his vicious fits.
When sober, a smarter fellow.
Or a nicer you wouldn’t find ;
It was just the cursed brandy
That drove him out of his mind.
I le’d had some trouble, I fancy,
A love affair, I was told —
The woman he loved betrayed him
For a cad with a heap of gold.
II was then that the Devil got him,
And he grew so wild and mad,
It seemed that he couldn’t gallop
Fast enough to the bad.
His conduct became a scandal—
A scandal at last so great,
I fe was tried and he left the regiment:
That settled the captain’s fate.
His father was fierce against him,
His family cut him dead,
1 or he never once made an effort
To alter the life he led.
He quarrelled and drank and gambled,
And he seemed to take a pride
In his fame as a reckless rowdy,
And in spreading it far and wide.
One day we heard in the regiment
That he’d married a Mabel May—
One of those poor lost women
Who go by the name of gay.
She was rather a famous beauty
In the days of the old Argyll,
And, thanks to her wealthy lovers,
She was living in first-class style.
I heard the officers talking—
They said it was in the Times,
And this, so they seemed to fancy,
Was the.worst of the captain’s crimes.
To spite and to grieve his father.
His people to shock and shame,
He had advertised his marriage
With a woman of evil fame.
He hadn’t a single shilling,
He was head over ears in debt,
And the very day he married
His name was in the Gazette.
But Mabel had lots of money
Safe and snug in the bank,
And a beautiful house and jewels,
The gift of a man of rank.
I met my old captain after;
He told me to call one day—
I was up at the house pretty often
Before we were ordered away.
It was then that I met the lady,
And, whatever she had been once,
I saw that she loved her husband—
That was plain to the merest dunce.
But he’d settled himself for ever,
Had Dare-devil Captain Dash ;
He had stooped so low, men whispered,
As to squander a wanton’s cash.
In a year he had brought her ruin,
He had robbed her of jewels—all,
And then gone off with a woman
He had met at a music-hall.
He had left her, an ailing mother,
With a baby but two months old,
Left her without a penny;
So the last of her things were sold.
And then, in a wretched lodging,
The beautiful Mabel May
Had to work for herself and baby
To keep the wolf away.
For she loved her heartless husband
With a love that had made her pure—
That had given her strength to struggle,
To suffer and still endure.
There were those, had they known her trouble,
Would have come, as they came before,
And offered her gold in plenty
For the love that her lord forswore.
But. clasping her baby to her.
The poor deserted wife
Declared that the vow she’d plight#!.
She would keep through all her life.
And she prayed by her baby’s cradle
That Heaven would let her live.
And, guarding her love from evil,
Would pity him and forgive.
He died with her arms around him—
One night, in a drunken brawl,
He slipped and fell in a scuffle,
And his spine was hurt in the fall.
She heard he was lying helpless
In a hospital far away,
And she brought him home and nursed him,
And tended him night and day !
She worked till her cheeks were hollow
And her beautiful eyes were dim,
She heeded not cold nor hunger,
But worked for the child and him.
And the night that he died he blessed her,
And, raising his death-glazed eyes,
He murmured a prayer to Heaven,
He might meet her beyond the skies,
His people are rich and honoured,
But they never forgave him dead—
It was Mabel who put the tombstone
That stands at the green grave’s head,
And still, with a face made fairer
By motherhood’s softening hand,
She’s as true to her wifely sorrow
As the lady who rules the land.
Now. are you jealous, Mary,
That I bowed to my captain’s wife ?
Don’t you think the Recording Angel
Has torn one page from her life ?
And that when the poor widowed workgirl
Stands forth at the Judgment Day
There’ll be never a voice to whisper
That once she was Mabel May ?
DAGONRT.
A Respectable Rascal of Old Sydney.
John Tawell’s case attracted much attention
in England a few years ago, partly from its cruelty
in poisoning a woman who was dependent upon
him for support, and partly from the remarkable
mode of its detection. A few minutes after he
had done the deed he started from Slough to Lon-
don by the railway ; but the train was out-
stripped by the electric telegraph, and on his ar-
rival in London police-officers were in attendance
at the railway-station, from which he was tracked
to his lodgings and arrested. Previous to his
transportation, upwards of forty years ago, his
occupation in England was that of a commercial-
traveller. His career in N.S. Wales \vhis a remark-
able one. It exhibited a strange mixture of great
shrewdness and money-making talent, combined
with an outward show of religious observance —
often doubtful evidence of a true feeling of piety.
He had been originally transported on a convic-
tion for forgery in England. The first count of
the indictment charged him with forging a bill for
£lOOO ; t-he second count with uttering it, know-
ing it to be forged ; and a third with having a
forged bill to that amount in his possession. The
two first counts, on conviction, would have then
made him liable to a capital punishment ; the last
to transportation for life. The prosecution was
so compromised, that on his consenting to plead
“ guilty ”to the last charge (which he did) the
Crown entered a nolle prosequi on the two first
counts. Accordingly, he came out to the colony
a convict for this offence. Besides being a com-
mercial-traveller for some time, he had been in an
apothecary’s shop in England. On obtaining par-
tial exemption from convict discipline he became
the principal druggist, and had the showiest shop
of that kind in Sydney when I arrived there.
After a prosperous career he sold his business to a
respectable chemist (the late Mr. Foss), it has
been stated, for £14,000. This sum he judiciously
invested in buildings and other pursuits of profit.
For nearly two years Tawell occupied the house
opposite to mine in Sydney which gave me almost
daily opportunity then of seeing him. He struck
me as being a remarkably well-conducted person.
He had been once a member of the Society of
Friends, he wore the broad-brimmed hat, ap-
peared always in a neat and carefully-adjusted
costume, and his whole appearance and manner
impressed one with the notion of his being a very
saintly personage. He always sought the society
in public of persons of reputed piety. I have
often met him in the street accompanied by a sec-
retary or collector to a charitable institution,
whom lie assisted in obtaining contributions for
benevolent objects. At one time he took up the
cause of temperance in such an intemperate and
silly spirit that he ordered a puncheon of rum he
had imported to be staved off the wharf in Sydney,
and its contents poured into the sea, saying that
he would ‘ not be instrumental to the guilt of dis-
seminating such poison throughout the colony.’
At another time his zeal took an apparently reli-
gious turn. He built in Macquarie-street, Sydney,
a commodious meeting-house for the Society of
Friends, on the front of which was inscribed, on a
large square stone inserted into the wall, some
suon words as—
‘ John Tawell
TO THE
Society of Friends.’
He conveyed no title, however, to the society to
secure to them the tenure of the property. After
his execution it was sold, I understood, with other
portions of his estate, for the benefit of the party
entitled to it under his will, the Crown having
waived its right to the forfeiture of his estate.
Tawell was himself a liberal contributor to
charities, and the opinion of his character was so
favourable that the act for which he suffered
created a general astonishment in Sydney. A
considerable part of his money had been realised
by buying up all the whalebone that trading-
vessels at an early period imported into Sydney.
This he sent to a London house, where it was
manufactured into combs, handles for various
brushes, and other articles of domestic use. He
was the first person in the colony who converted
whalebone into an article of profitable export.
When Tawell left the colony he had a considerable
income arising from rents and other sources,
which became much reduced by the general dis-
tress that pervaded New South Wales in 1843.
Soon after his arrival in England Tawell married
a respectable lady, who, it is believed, knew no-
thing of his antecedents. After his marriage he felt
that the maintenance of the female whom he sub-
sequently destroyed had become an inconvenient
burden on his diminished income. There can be
little doubt a desire to relieve himself from the
expense of supporting her was the motive
that led to the perpetration of the deed for
which he suffered. Since his death there has
been a disputed claim to a portion of Tawell’s
property in Sydney, involved in much legal in-
tricacy, arising from the circumstance of the
Crown re-issuing a new grant of some land for-
feited by Tawell’s conviction in favour of his
widow and family. This grant prevailed over the
claims to the same land by a previous purchaser,
as the latter alleged, under a sufficient power of
attorney and for a bona-fide consideration. The
affixing of the seal of the colony to this grant by
Sir W. Denison created a serious difference be-
tween that Governor, on the eve of his departure
from the colony, and his chief minister, Mr.
Cowper. The seal was affixed pursuant to the
instructions of the Secretary of the Colonies, who
only acted in the matter in accordance with the
opinion of the Attorney and Solicitor-General of
England.”-
JUDCE THERRY.
An infant’s epitaph—
“ A little cough,
It carried him off.
And a little coffin !
They carried him off-in.”
Lady Aylesford lately sued a British (Rail-
way Co. for £5O damages for the loss of a Chinese
Chow-chow slut given her by Lord Wolverton
and intended for a mate to a dog of the same
breed. In the witness-box she stated that she
already had an order for five puppies at ten
guineas each but she was nonsuited as no negli-
gence was proved. What’s to become of poor
Bill Sikes when Countesses go into dog-fancying ?


Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
Government Advertisements.
rtSt
T
Department of Public Works,
Sydney, February 4, 1890.
ENDERS FOR PUBLIC WORKS AND
SUPPLIES.
For Conditions, see Government Gazette.
Nature of Works and Supplies.
Bridge, Eucumbene River, road
Coomato Kiandra (fresh tenders)
Manufacture and Supply of Twelve
Water-balance Road Rollers
Supply, &c., of Turret Clock, Post
and Telegraph Office, Kelnpsey
Ditto ditto, ditto ditto ditto, Ten-
ter held
Ditto ditto, ditto ditto ditto, Bal-
lina
Ditto ditto, ditto ditto ditto, Red-
fern
Drainage Works, Orange, Kite-'
street to Lord’s-place
Bridge at Blakehurst, Kogarah-
road
Additions, Coast Hospital, Little
Bay
Approaches to Cook’s River Bridge,
Unwin’s Crossing
Repairs, &c., Court-house, Wollon
gong
Turret Clock, Court-house, Inverell
Alterations to Windows, &e., Hos-
pital for the Insane, Gladesville
(fresh tenders)
Bridge, Mann River, road Glen
Lines to Red Range
Bridge, Tarcutta Creek, road Um
bango to Adelong
Bridge, Woodvilie Creek, road
Granville to Woodville, erection
Engineer’s Residence, Ballina,
Richmond^ River, construction of
Extension of Bullock Island
Wharf, Newcastle
Additions, &c., Wingham Wharf,
Manning River
Additional Works, Tramway,
Leichhardt to Five Dock
Erection of Six Gate-Keepers’
Cottages, Hornsby, St. Leonards-
Railway
Supply of Punt Gearing, year
. 189(i
Bridge, to carry Pumping Main
over Lane Cove River, North
Shore Water Supply
Additions Post and Telegraph
Office, Bathurst
Courthouse, Newcastle, erection
of. (Fresh Tenders)
Additions, Wilcannia Gaol
Erection of Police Quarters, Wel-
lington
Dates to whr’ch
! Tenders
can be received
; at this office.
Installation of Electric Light,
Bullock Island, Newcastle
Wednesday,
Feb. 19,
at 11 o’clock.
Wednesday,
March 5,
at 11 o’clock.
Wednesday,
March 19,
at 11 o’clock.
Wednesday,
May 14,
at 11 o’clock.
BRUCE SMITH.
WANTED,
some really smart Resident
Agents in all the Country
Towns throughout the Colonies. A Comfortable
Income for Energetic Persons of either sex.
Apply at once, as time is money, to
“FORTUNE,”
P.O. Box 570, Sydney, N.S.W.
/COUNTRY STOREKEEPERS, ETC.
Should write or call upon
A. M. MARKS fit CO.,
—lmporters of—
Furniture, Pianofortes, Glass, Earthenware,
CHINA, FANCY GOODS, ELECTRO PLATE,
CIGARS A TORAKOMSTS SUNDRIES
SOLE AGENTS FOR
Lawn Cigars and Salonica Turkish Cigarette
Special Novelties in all Lines for Christmas Trade.
Price* on Application to —
]VC. Marks & Co ,
Vickery's Buildings, 7ia Pitt Streeet, Sydney,
AND AT LONDON.
Telephone, No. 010.
Ask for the
Unequalled
“DAWN”
3d. CIGAR,
m
Of all
Tobacconists,
Store
ANT)
Hotel
KEEPERS.
Wholesale Agents: A. M. MARKS & Co., 71a PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
.Arm
DAWS ours
Sole Agents for Australasia
VAUGHAN, ROGERS & CO.,
(Opposite 0.P.0.)
108 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
p
E
R
F
E
C
T
I
O
N
WHISKY.
SUB-AGENTS WANTED
IN THE
PRINCIPAL CENTRES
THROUGHOUT AUSTRALASIA
milE GREAT REMEDY FOR PAIN.
SIX STANDARD VIRTUES.
Ist.—lt is in one word a cure; it is not merely
a relief, and in no sense a cure-a 1; it is the product
o° scientific research.
2nd —It strengthens wliile it soothes and sub-
dues, heals and cures ; it literally conquers pain.
fird. —Its effects are curative and permanent to
the whole group of muscular miseries and nervous
agonies.
4th.--It does not merely irritate the outer sur-
face, nor does it merely soften or relax a con-
stricted muscle. To its specific action a superior
curative virtue is superadded.
sth. —lt penetrates deeply but gently ; search-
ingly and surely, seeking the pain spot in an effort
to conquer.
Cth.—Each constituent of the formula has a
recognised intrinsic virtue to serve most surely the
cure of pain.
SOLD BY DRUGGISTS AND DEALERS
EVERYWHERE.
fTIHE WATERBURY WATCH AT SEA.
A Waterbury Watch took the place of a
chronometer, and was used to navigate a vessel
when the ship’s instruments were broken. At
least such is the burden of the following extract
from the columns of the Ansonia(Conn.) Evening
Sentinel :
“ Washington, September 19.—Lieut.-Com-
mander Stockton, commanding the United States
steamer Thetis, now cruising in Alaskan waters,
notified the Navy Department that the American
schooner Norway, having on board Ensign Howard
and party, hence from San Franisco, have navi-
gated to that port safely with no other means of
finding longitude than a Waterbury Watch, her
chronometers having been broken. Lieutenant
Stockton loaned the party suitable instruments.”
OUR EXCELLENT FRIEND AGAIN.
To Mr. Flint, —I have great pleasure in stating
according to your wish, that the Waterbury
Watch worn by me during my journeys in East
Africa, especially on my Kilema —Ndseharo ex-
pedition, has done me quite splendid service.
While three other valuable watches of German
and English make failed me after short time, the
Waterbury has never failed, not even after having
been one day 13 hours under water, and in general
distinguished itself by its regular rate.
(Signed) OTTO E. EHLERS.
Channel of Suez, April 20, 1889.
On board the “ Orion.”
The world-famed WATERBURY may be ob-
tained from any respectable dealer throughout the
colonies. Price, Series E, 13s. fid. ; Series .1 or 1,,
20s. If any difficulty should be experienced in
obtaining these Watches, write to the Waterbui y
Watch Co.’s Repair Depot, 66 Margaret Street,
Sydney.
ST. JACOBS DIB.
WHAT IT IS.
-I
c
m
o
c.
c
Colgate's Cashmere Sonqoet Toilet Ccaj
Is made with the utmost care from materials
selected with the
Greatest Regard for Purity,
And for the, soothing and beneficial effect which
they impart to the skin and the complexion.
Grold Miecial, Paris, 1809
“ Unequalled in Quality and Perfume.'’
To be obtained from all Chemists and Dealers
in Perfumery. Take no substitute.
h.\ ON h K.N()\V S, who shaves himself,
how exasperating it is, after having lathered his
face,- to take up his razor to shave and find his
lather dried and his beard stiffer than over. This
will not happen when COLGATE’S DEMUL-
CENT SHAVING SOAP is used. Why?
Because the lather it makes is close and stays on
the face. Once made, it does not disappear and
leave the face dry, but is creamy soft to the skin
and permanent. Gentlemen interested will be
glad to learn that consignments of this elegant
toilet preparation are to hand, and it may be
obtained from all leading chemists and dealers in
toilet requisites. Those who have never had the
pleasurable experience of using it should lose no
time in doing so.
The name and trade-mark of COLGATE
and CO., on each article, assures purchasers
of superior and uniform quality.
The Referee.
There were a quartette of veterans at the cricket
match on T.mrsday week to see New South Wales win,
and In lag an equal number of victories on the board:
Charley Lawrence, George Moore, Harry Hilliard, and
Ned Gregory. A big lump of a fellow, bronzed and
bearded, strolled up to Lawrence and remarked, “Why,
Charley, o!d man, don’t you know me—l’m G. H.
Gordon.” G, H., a score of years ago, was the hero of
the Alberts, and has been in t le bush for the last 20 years.
* * *
When Trott and Bruce were mercilessly pasting
the N.S.W. howling, the Sydneyites, with one exception,
looked glum. The exception was Ned Gregory. “ I like
to see them hitting,” remarked the veteran, “ they’re
sure to put one up directly,” and the words were scarcely
uttered when Trott put a curly one of Turner’s into
Sammy Jones’ hands, and Samuel retained it with thanks.
# * *
Morris’ disposal of Garrett was the beT catch
in the match; Morris was bowling and Garrett returned
one to biin at lightning speed. “Uncle Sam” played
with the ball like a hot potato until it had cooled down
sufficiently for him to hold it.
* * #
N.S.W. has struck a competent wicket-keeper
at last in young Deane. He caught three men out in
eadh innings, and the youngsters, Gregory, Iredale, and
Charlton, all came up to expectations.
* * *
The intercolonial cricketers had a great time at
their Sunday picnic up the Hawkesbary, when about 70
cricketing and theatrical friends put in an appearance.
Dr. Barrett gave a martial song which was voted much
more lively than his batting, and then Slade Murray
—it being Sunday—vetoed secular music, and gave, in his
best style, “ Good old Mary Ann,” “ They’ve all got ’em,”
and “What’s the matter with the picnic? That’s all
right.”
* # *
Blackham was not far out when last match he
said he was glad “ Sammy ”. Jones had been left out.
This time he said he was sorry he had been picked.
V * *
The challenge of Matterson to row Kemp for
the aquatic premiership looks much as if those big
wagering sportsmen, the Spencers, are not about to allow
O'Connor to get a “ soft snap”—as the Yankees termjit—
(or the championship. That Matterson’s party, however,
should have fixed the stakes at £5OO aside is a surprise to
most people, and looks much as if they really think he has
a show of heating Kemp. If only a “ bluff ” for O'Connor
were meant, £2OO would have acted just as well as £5OO.
Would not this be a good opportunity to bring down the
stakes to £2OO aside for championship races ? As matters
now stand, a champion with wealthy and willing backers
can hold the championship until he is grey-headed by
“bluffing” off all challenges with prohibitive stakes.
Two hundred pounds stakes aside was the usual cham-
pionship stakes until the advent of Hanlan with his
thousands; and the present is a fitting time for fixing a
maximum champion stake. As a matter of fact, it seems
a farce for Matterson and Kemp to row for the “ cham-
pionship.” Those “in the know ” say that Stansbury can
lose either of them.
# # #
O’Connor is not coming to Australia yet, after
all. His pretext for lingering in Yankeeland is that he
has a mateh on—for “ the championship !”—with that
well-crusted humbug, Hanlan.
# * *
The Marquis of Hastings, who is coming out on
a visit to Governor Carington, is not to he mistaken for
the “ little Marquis ” of plunging fame and the owner of
the flying two-year-old Lady Elizabeth. The “ little
Marquis ” has been dead many years—he died at the
age ®f 32, having broken his heart and fortune on the turf.
The present user of the title may be also called “ little,”
as he is under-sized, pale, and delicate ; however, he has
proved himself a straight goer and is in the front rank of
racing men. He came out under the wing of the shrewd
Captain Machell, and on the advice of his mentor pur-
chased the well-known and successful horse, Master Kil-
dare. On the turf the present lord has been very lucky.
Few racing men who have visited our shores are better
judges of the thoroughbred and of “ form.”
# # *
Comedian Murphy, of the Rickards Company,
is a staunch lover of his “distressful country.” At a
recent race-meeting ’Arry chaffed him into putting his
little bit on Home Rule, who got badly beaten. In the
next race Shamrock was engaged, and “Romeo” said
ecstatically: “Shamrock, is it? 1 can never for-
get thee,” and dumped down another quid. Sham-
rock also proved a failure, and so the crest-fallen
Hibernian, deeming that it was a bad day for Ire-
land, backed a horse with a Sassenach name (or the
next event, which was, however, won by Erin-go-
Bragh, who started at 10 to 1. This completely broke
Murphy up, and, slapping his forehead with one hand,
while he dashed his hat on the ground with the other, he
shouted in tragic accents : “Sarvesme might, begorra, for
bein’ a trathur to dear old Oireland.” This yarn reminds
us of a similar display of patriotism by a Wagga tailor
who'always followed a Hibernian-named horse even if a
cripple, and who once won a big stake by backing Erin’s
Isle for the Glen limes Cup when it carried big added
money.
# # *
“Johnny ” Jacobs (“ Whistling Johnny ”) used
to tell the following story. He was one day sitting at his
door when he was accosted by a gentleman with “ Johnny
Jacobs, by all that’s kosher 1” Johnny took his visitor out
of winding, but without a gleam of recognition breaking
in upon him. “Why, Johnny, don’t you recollect So-
and-So, and So-and-So, and So-nnd-So ?” said the stranger,
giving evidence of his most intimate knowledge of the
innermost recesses of Jacob’s rather eventful early life in
Tasmania. Johnny sat open-mouthed. “ And do you
mean to say you don’t recollect me ?” “No 1 I’ll be
blanked if 1 do!” at last gasped Johnny. “Then I’m
blanked if it’s worth telling you,” returned the stranger,
as he walked away. Jacobs followed him up the street
begging and threatening alternately, but the stranger
would not say who he was, and Johnny always said he
reckoned it would take ten years off his life figuring out
who that man could be.
# * #
The prospects of Kirkham and Narellan are
forming a perfect godsend for the cable Ananias. One
day we are told they are not worth a blank, and now we
hear that they are much fancied, Narellan, in particular,
going freely and well. But Mr. White is not at all likely
to see his horses run in the 1890 English Derby-his
health will not stand the journey.
# * *
They ’vein align rated goat-racing at Maryborough
(Q.) under the auspices of the Newtown racing club. At
the opening meeting there were fifteen competitors, and
Gallagher’s “ Billv ” won the double by a horn, defeating
Abe room. Trident, Carbine and several King William
goats. Fifty goats are in work for the next meeting,
which takes’ place at Easter, and theatrical play-bills are
much in request, it being supposed that the tendency is
to make the devourer “fast.” The attention of the
L.O.L. to this item is requested.
# * *
English sporting papers announce that “the
objection to Swindler has been overruled.” At Aus-
tralian race-meetings objections to Swindler are sometimes
made, but seldom come to anything.
Since the recent Busst scandal -with its inci-
dental assault, battery, and disqualification—the Mel-
bourne term for suspicious bicycle racing is “ going on
the busst.” By the way, considering what monstrous
swindles have been flaunted in the face of the public by
amateur cyclists for years past, it was rough upon the
brothers Busst to be accused of a“cronk,”and doosid
strange that they should trouble much about it.
CORRESPONDENCE
“Pistol”: The scheme of “How we Feder-
ated ” is not bad, but the idea is worked out with insuffi-
cient circumstantiality “ Your railway-carriage
yarn is a chestnut of fifty years’ growth,...“ G.G.H.”:
According to Hoyle and other authorities “B” scores
five. Numerical sequence, so long as the run is unbroken
by court-cards, is not necessary “T. E. Ellis”: (1.)
As to fees, write to Victorian Government statist. (2.)
Broadly speaking, the Republicans are Northerners and
Protectionists ; the Democrats, Southerners and Free-
traders. (3.) He would be a better leader. (4.) At pre-
sent Protection would not poll so largely as at last election.
“ Rectus ” : It would need much polishing up before
printing “Luckless”: Useless to The Bulletin, yet
by no means void of merit “H.W.P.”: Thanks
“ Stretton-Albin ” : Neither tragic nor humorous
“Cowboy”: Thanks. A mere printer’s error “ Her-
vey, H. D.” (T., Yio.) : Have read it with much interest
but it is too crude for publication.... “T. Le G. B.” ;
Good. Will illustrate...." Old Forty-Niner ” : Capital ar-
ticle under the circumstances “ W.H.8.” : [1) As Adam
Bede has, so far as we know, discontinued the practice of
publicly and regularly giving to charities a percentage of
his commissions, he is no longer entitled to term his con-
sultation a “benevolent” one. (2) His methods are fair....
“E.B. Lady Godiva, in response to a challenge from
her husband, rode through Coventry with no covering
but her tresses, and thus secured a remission of some
vexatious impost he had laid on the townspeople. Hence
the yearly carnival “A.0.E.”: Notwithstanding the
statistics you refer to, you may take our word that the
Petit Journal of Paris has a bigger circulation than any
other journal on the planet “L.L.0.”: It is a pity to
make man-eating niggers into psalm-singers. What a
shocking mixture of treachery and cold-blooded brutality
does one see in an evangelically-regenerated New Guinea
cannibal!,.. “ E. 0.”: The N.S.W. championship is sup-
posed to belong to the Parramatta River, no matter who
holds it, but if any sculler hailing from the Clarence won
it, and were so pig-headed as to refuse to pull on the
Parramatta, we can’t say what would happen. The con-
tingency is not likely, however. (2.) Yes: the Ameri-
can who wins can take it to America. (3.) Yes ; Hanlan
beat Laycock on the Nepean for the championship. (4.)
Willenquireconcerning your status as an amateur. ,“J.C.’’
(Narrabri): Will read and consider..“ L.C.S’ 1 : Thanks...
“ J.R.F.” (Locksley) ; Excellent verses “J.F.S.”:
Yes, the offence is a felony, and not being political conies
within the extradition law “Joseph Flood”: You
had better get some “ Antine.” “ H.F.” (Russell
River): Subject now too old “ Walter E. B.” : Have
not yet got through with “ Bar Bound.” “Constant
Reader” (Richmond); Many thanks “Fred. C. R.”
(Uralla) : Would want complete re-drawing “A Sub-
scriber ” : Why in a disguised hand ? “ Slow Coach ” ;
It’s all a matter of imagination. Personally, we don’t
believe in it a bit.—[Many letters held over.]
The Bulletin enters on its eleventh year
of publication with this number.
One of the “ noblemen ” implicated in the
West-end scandal is in Turkey. When you are
in Turkey you may safely do as the turkeys do.
An alleged lunatic has been arrested fo* 1
standing outside Windsor Castle, and warbling
“ Why should we wait for the morrow, You are
Queen of my Heart to-night. ”
Addressing a Cork jury, Baron Dowse
quoted the well-known line from Locksley Hall,
“Better fifty years of Europe than a cycle of
Cathay.” The local journal reported him as
having said “ Better fifty years in ‘ chokee ’ than
a circus in Bombay.”
J. E. Redmond, the Home Rule M.P.,
has lost his wife. She was the half-sister of Mr.
T. Dalton, M.L.A., of Orange, N.S.W, and
died at Dublin in child-birth. The anti-Irish
papers made great fun of her “ reluctance to leave
her native land.” She fainted on going on board
the steamer, and had a presentiment that she
would never return.
The irrepressible secretary of the N.S.W.
Freetrade and Liberal Association is about to
start a series of “Question Meetings,” at which
he will reply to all queries from friend and foe.
Not wishing to take the old man by surprise, The
Bulletin hereby notifies its intention to ask him
this :—Does the N.S.W. Freetrade and Liberal
Association swahow the programme of the Single-
tax party ; or, is it simply humbugging these
whole-souled enthusiasts? By the way, a prominent
TELBGRAPH-man was asked, the other day :—
“ Does your paper give an out and-out advocacy
to the Sihgle-tax programme ? ” His reply was :
“ No; we merely coquet with the party from
motives of expendiency.”
“ Two young men recently hooked a dead
shark in Sydney Harbour. The unfortunate crea-
ture was found to contain a small glass bottle,
some hard biscuit, and a complete copy of the
Sydney Morning Herald. ”
An Epitaph,
Here lies the carcase of a fish
I. 1 hat freely ate of every dish ;
Men, women, children, bits of wood,
He tried, and found ’em very good.
A lobster or a small glass bottle
Would go, like winking, down his throttle,
And e’en a bag of captain’s biscuit
Was not so hard hut he might risk it.
No grub could kill this heavy feeder
Except a Morning Herald leader.
He got one in his poor inside,
And that accounts for how he died.


M
sirs
ff
I til
H
m
iri W
IFll i:l
Jr) : f ! U
BPIfM Lw 3J
Business Announcements.
MASON BROTHERS,
LIMITED.
263 to 269 KENT STREET,
SYDNEY,
Have always in Stock for Sale to tin
Trade and Wholesale Buyevs Only
Ironmongery, mid
GENERAL HARDWARE
Glass, China and
EARTHE N W A R. K
WINES, BEERS & SPIRIT!' ,
AND GENERAL
BULK MERCHANDISE.
Agents for
JOHN WALKER and SON!
Old Highland Whisky.
J. SORIN and CO.’S
Cognac.
J. T. GAYEN’S,
Schnapps and Geneva.
A. MELVIN and SON S’
Edinburgh Pale Ale.
SPECIALTY.
KCE3NTRY KIN&,
PHOTO-SCENIC ARTIST,
316 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Is constantly adding fresh subjects to his Im
raense Stock of Australian and New Zealand
Views, comprising every variety of subject taker,
from Nature unadorned and Art glorified.
Marine Views and Landscapes,
Mountains and Cave?,
Crack Yachts and Cathedrals,
Old Identities and Young Australians,
Everyday Sights and Stirring Incidents,
Stereo, and Lantern Slides,
High-class Portraiture.
Catalogues on Application,
Slti George SI., between Hunter and King .Sts.
Medical.
DR. SPEER’S
AMERICAN DISPENSARY
3 X Yo r k Street.
P.O. Box 920.
Dr. Speer is a regular Graduated Physician, educated al
Harvard College, U.S. (for confirmation see New Zealand
Gazette, January 21st, 1886; also New South Wal««
Gazette, April 17th, 1888). The doctor has devoted 11
years to the study of CHRONIC, NERVOUS, AND
SPECIAL DISEASES. Four of these were in the leading
hospitals of the United States, which enables him to treat
all complaints with excellent results. All applying to
him will receive his honest opinion of their complaints.
No experimenting ;no Mercury used. He will guarantee
a positive cure in every case he undertakes, or forfeit
£2OO. His reason for doing so is this—when there is not
organic disease, and nothing but an inorganic trouble, or,
in other words, a conglomeration of symptoms producing
a certain result, there is no reason why it cannot be re-
moved with the proper remedies, therefore he guarantees.
He wishes it distinctly understood that he does not claim
to perform impossibilities, or to have miraculous power
he claims only to be a skilled and successful physician
thoroughly informed in his speciality—CHßONlC akd
SPECIAL DISEASES ok MEN and WOMEN. People
residing at a distance can, by explaining their troubles in
detail be treated at home. The course of treatment will
not in any way interfere with their business. Examina-
tion and advice free to all. Charges moderate. H. J.
Spekr, M D., 31 York-street, Sydney. Post Office Box,
No. 920. Office hours, 10 a.m. 012 a.m. 2to 4 and 7
to 8 p.m. Sundays from 10 to 11 a.m. only.
M
"
•IS
■ -s
ttlß
<e
°'CTli
TO YOXJKTG MEKT.
DR. FLETCHER S
TREATISE ON NERVOUS DISEASES, THEIR CAUSE,
SYMPTOMS, TREATMENT, AND CURE.
T'HE directions contained in this little treatise will be
x found of immense benefit to the sufferer; and it these
directions are observed during the early stages of Nervous
or Sexual Debility, No Medicines will be required, as, by
observing the directions given, the patient can Cure Him-
self.
This admirable little treatise is specially written to
show a method of counteracting the evil effects of indis-
cretions in early life—overwork, irregularity in eating or
drinking, &c. It is the result of much study and long
and successful experience in the treatment of diseases,
and contains a fund of useful information to every suf-
ferer from the following complaints, viz.;—Nervous
Debility, Dizziness, Specks before the Eyes, Pains in the
Back, Defective Memory, Loss of Will Power, Loss of
Energy, Spermatorrhoea, Bashfulness, Discontentedness,
Constipation, Liver and Kidney Derangements, Atrophy,
Impotence, Impure Blood, Foul Taste in Mouth, Palpita-
tion of Heart, Wakefulness, Despondency, Excessive Ner-
vousness, Inability to Marry, Premature Decay, and other
symptoms experienced by nervous sufferers.
All Should Send for this Little Treatise.
If the complaint is of long standing and requires
medicine, Dr. Fletcher will GUARANTEE TO CURE
ANY CASE OF NERVOUS or SEXUAL DEBILITY
with ONE COURSE OF MEDICINES LASTING FIVE
WEEKS, and will send with medicines A WRITTEN
GUARANTEE to cure same or return the monies paid.
Dr. Fletcher's treatment is both simple and effective,
and within the reach of the poorest. It is unlike any
other, and with it he has cured over 25,000 patients, and
invites patients to invettigate his statements by verifying
the testimonials published in his treatise. The treatise
will be forwarded on receipt of two stamps to cover
pos( vgc.
CONSULTATION BY LETTER, FREE.
Address in first instance—
DR. h. EWART FLETCHEB r
Box 1417, GLP.O.
Sydney, N.S.W.
Private address—Clonmel House, Waverley, Sydney.
Remember, all cases undertaken, guaranteed, and a
signed agreement given, which provides that NO COST
beincurred bv the patient if a cure is not effected.
VARICOCELE RADICALLY CURED WITHOUT
OPERATION.
Mention this I'ais r.
Aarons’ US :2s: clxsixi ge Hotel, SPv cLiolo-tt - .
"' . '
M '• V • .
< ' - :
. ■ ' ' \i. . I
wmm
11
11
I
3
i
m
i
1
4
'LIDiL
Adjoining the Sydney Exchange.
Mining, Financial and General Mercantile Intelligence
Posted several times DAILY in the Building - .
TELEGRAPH, POST and MONEY ORDER OFFICES on the PREMISES.
This Hotel has been thoroughly renovated and re-furnished, and is now unrivalled for comfort
and attention.
Aarons’ Exchange Hotel Co. (Limited), Proprietors.
JOHN BRIDGE & CO.,
CIRCULAR QUAY, SUSSEX STREET, A
DARLING HARBOUR,
WOOL BROKERS,
Hides, Tallow, Sheepskins, Kangaroo, Bear and
Opossum Skins, tCr.
atjctioWeebs.
aRA.m SALESMEN.
Study your Eyes.
SPECTACLES of every description to suit all sights
from Is. to ss. Pebbles, ss. to 10s. Gauge for testing
your sight. Price List and a Treatise on “Vision and
the Lise of Spectacles,” sent Free.
W. E, TOOSE, Sptelack l linker «t Opt clan,
418 Grouse Street, Sydney.
JJfT' Awarded Nine Medals at various Exhibitions.
I i*T„
pOR P ' i‘.
f-
cfi-X
r'o.RP
/i
//
rr/Mt.
.■,:
* 2
jj m.
Hill
».*
• . f v"'-; ■ ..... J ~
electric punro-ENC. co. 8 oribce-st.. syoneT
Tlic Oxrord. Hotel, King Street, Sydney.
Jl. TUORV’E ... ... ... PpOPBIKTOR.
JONES’ SEWING MACHINES,
FOR THE BOOT AND TAILORING TRADES.
The Best Manufacturing Machines in Existence*
Now Perfected, tlie New No. 3 and No. 4 Machines on an Entirely new System.
STOCK JUST LATTDITT G-.
Farleig Ja, KTettlieim, & c 0.,
TANNERS AND LEATHER MERCHANTS, .
xe
x YORK
Sole Agents for tlu
x STaSXaEIEST, x HYTIAT-pv
above for New South Wales and Cneenshind.
Wri*m
ALSO Importers et Requisites for the LOOT M AMTAt'TURING TRADE in all Details, ineludiiur M AUMINPiiv
IMPORTED LEA'I MENS, &c. ; ami of (he following Si-kcial Links: Peerless Gloss. M«iii n l*ollsl %uhl««
KlaekiiiK' Tanners’ Tools and Materials. Indents Executed on Favourable Terms. ’
Medical.
I)R. RICHARDS.
ROOM^
lti
coNSU
\w\m\
r‘
r RICHARDS v
SMlljUimiTuiliiniUtnMiuTiiti
-
r
■ !
WfflKMliißß*
This eminent Specialist, Founder, and Chief
Surgeon of the long-established and favourably-
known Dispensary that now bears his name, re-
ceived his medical education in the leading college }
and hospitals of Europe, lie has devoted a life-
time to the study of
PRIVATE, NERVOUS, AND SKIN
DISEASES.
He has by profound research thoroughly investi-
gated their origin, traced their deadly sources and
insidious dissemination, and ascertained the surest
and safest methods by which they may he eradi-
cated, with these widely recognised qualifications
combined with unswerving faithfulness to hi i
patients, he has during his practice, extending
over FORTY YEARS, attained a well-deserved
pre-eminence in their treatment. His practice
embraces d s.;ases which probably cause more un-
happiness than any other class of troubles that
afflict mankind.
YOUNG MEN
who suffer from the results of early follies, trans-
gressions or excesses of more nature ago, bladder
difficulties, a whitish or dark ropy sediment in
the water, accompanied by slight burning or
smarting sensation, Headaches, Drowsiness during
the day, circles round the eyes, Giddiness,
irregularity of the bowels, specks before the eyes,
bashfulness, discontentedness, weakness or pains
in the back, Liver or kidney complaints, dreams,
buzzing noises in the ears and head, pimples, a
fear that something dreadful is about to happen,
weak stomach, yellow or blood-shot eyes, impure
blood, hasty, uncontrollable temper, hacking
cough, who cannot marry, nervousness in society,
wakefulness, palpitation of the heart, general
weakness, and other symptoms which lead to in-
sanity and death, should consult him, for he has
mastered these difficulties. On receipt of 6d. in
stamps he will send secure from observation in a
plain wrapper, postage
FREE, A LARGE CLOTH-BOUND
BOOK.
Showing plainly how all diseases of the private or
nervous system may be cured thoroughly and per-
manently without unnecessary expence. This
book will prove a valuable companion, and even
though you he perfectly well its general inform -
tion and prescription may assist you in restoring
some poor friend to health even after his case has
been pronounced incurable by his medical at-
tendant.
ONE POUND IS SUFFICIENT TV
SEND
for Remedies necessary for the cure of NER-
VOUS DEBILITY. Should you require medical
treatment, as procrastination is sometimes dan-
gerous, it would be advisable for you to sit down
quietly in your chamber and write to the doctor,
detailing every experienced symptom. He will
on receipt of such a letter, write you, promptly
and courteously, a candid and straightforward
oponion of your case. If you do not think you
understand the case, send for his famous medical
work, the price of which is but sixpence ; enclosed
in the volume will be found a list of carefully-pre-
pared questions, which will, in all probability,
assist you materially in describing your ailment.
Dr. Richards uses nothing but the purest remedies,
and never proscribes mercury under any circum-
stances. The moment letters arc carefully per-
used and answered they are destroyed by fire,
and patients may rest assured that their cases
will remain a secret between the doctor and
themselves. Dr. Richards has successfully treated
nearly 25,000 cases since coining to Australia, and
has permission from at least 10,000 persons to
show their written evidence of his success. All
communications should bo addressed
Dr. RICHARDS,
•7 Spring Street
(Off I’itfc Street North)
SYDNEY.
Be sure to mention this paper when writing
CONSULTATION UULU
“Ay, I might have expected as much! Now you’ve set up a carriage of your
own, you don’t take no notice of your poor friends who are obliged to
walk. Poverty is indeed a curse!” — AMER.


When next you hake try Pemell’s Snow-white Patent
Roller Flour, and your bread will be as white as snow.
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
Nota Bene ! In addition to their High Class old
Wines, Messrs. Hookings & Co., of 410 George-street, have
accepted the agency of the Australian Wine Company,
Limited, for their superior cheap wines.
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
Bena-Fide announcement. Highest cash price
given for all kinds of gent’s left off clothing.
Dress-suits for sale or hire. Letters promptly
attended to by OUITTENTON BROS., 11l
Russell street, MELBOURNE. [New number,
163.)
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
Everybody says—and what everybody says must be true
—that Pemell’s Snow white Patent Roller Flour is the
best in the market.
Ffrench pronounces the Rutherglen (Vic.)
fly-pest to be a common plant-bug. Ffrench evi-
dently knows something about lilies and fileas.
Stevenson, a fat, pompous M.L.A. (Q.)
and one of the Morehead, Pattison and Stevenson
trio, was holding forth the other day upon the
assumption that every poor man was a fool.
“ Look round,” said this “tulchan ” laird, “ take
any rich man you see, say myself, for instance,
and you will find his wealth the creation of his
own brain.” “No, no,” said Hod gkinson, “the
Lord is not so unkind as that comes to ; he gives a
man like you money to prove to some poor devils
how blind Fortune can be.”
I
K.
ci
s
O
s
T
o
U
/Scents
DELISSA3. PHILLIPS
Barmck Street.
Shipping.
JJUDDART, PARKER and CO.’s LINE.
STEAM TO MELBOURNE AND
TASMANIA.
FROM HUDDART, PARKER S WHARF :
FOR MELBOURNE WHARF DIRECT—
Elingamite 1 4000 tons | Tuesday,Feb.llat6p.ni.
FOR LAUNCESTON, VIA MELBOURNE-
tr unshipping to S.S. NEWCASTLE.
Elingamite | 4000 tons | Tuesday, Feb. Ilat6p.ni.
These magnificent Steamships have already established
a reputation for their accommodation, and their large size
insures passengers a maximum of comfort. The SALOON
CABINS are light and airy and very roomy. FORE-
CABIN is on main deck, lofty and well ventilated. Com-
plete sanitation and lavatories. ELECTRIC LIGHTING
throughout the ships. Inspection invited on days of
sailing.
RETURN TICKETS AVAILABLE FOR SIX MONTHS.
For rates of Freight and Passage-money apply
HUDDART, PARKER & CO., Limited.
Offices and Wharf—Foot of Margaret-street.
vpASMANIAN EXCURSIONS,
The splendid
S.S. BURRUMBEET, 4000 Tons,
will sail as under for HOBART DIRECT.
BURRUMBEET, Monday, 10th February, at 6 p.m.
GREAT REDUCTION IN FARES.
SALOON £lO 0
RETURN 1 10 0
STEERAGE 0 10 0
RETURN TICKETS AVAILABLE FOR SIX MONTHS.
Also GREAT REDUCTION iN FREIGHT.
HUDDART, PARKER & CO, Limited.
Office and Wharf—Foot of Margaret Street.
IJ-ORDDEUTSCHER LLOYD.
IMPERIAL GERMAN MAIL.
Passengers are carried according to the requirements of
the English Passenger Acts of 1886 and 1863.
MONTHLY LINE OF DIRECT STEAMERS
from
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, and ADELAIDE,
to SOUTHAMPTON, ANTWERP, and BREMEN, via
COLOMBO, Aden, Suez, and Genoa,
taking passengers for London,
connecting from PORT SAID by DIRECT MAIL and
PASSENGER LINE to BRINDISI,
will be despatched as follows (if practicable):—
helm 11. L. Stormer April 19 April 27 April 29
And thereafter every four weeks.
PASSAGE MONEY from SYDNEY,
£l4 to £57 10s.
RETURN TICKETS, available for NINE and TWELVE
MONTHS, at REDUCED RATES.
Passengers and Cargo are booked through to New York,
via Southampton.
Special facilities are afforded for bringing out relatives
and friends from the United Kingdom and Europe by pre-
payment of the passage money in Australia.
For FREIGHT, PASSAGE, and all further particulars,
apply to
FREDK. BETZ & CO., Agents,
5 O’Connell-street.
HAIRDRESSERS &. TOBACCONISTS.
CRAIG and AITKEKT
HAVE IN STOCK EVERY REQUISITE IN CONNECTION WITH THE TRADE.
Hairdressing Chairs (American and Colonial), Saloon Mirrors, Hotwater Urns, Shampooing
Basins and Apparatus, Hackle", Wig Blocks, Crimping, Pressing and other Irons,
Hairclippers, &c., &c., &c.
Send to tHem for axiytliixxg yon require.
We engage oompktknt assistants for any part of the Southern Hemisphere, and we thoroughly
test them in our own saloon before sending.
Wholesale and Retail Tobacco Merchant and Importers.
)_(
Send for Price hist to our only addretm—
-680 and 682 Georgs Street* Brickfield Hill* Sydney*
Drapery.
HORDERN,
TAILOR,
207 Pitt Street.
D
Shipping.
IREGT SERVICE TO ENGLAND.
PENINSULAR AND ORIENTAL STEAM
NAVIGATION COMPANY.
The Company’s Royal Mail Steamships (under
contract with the Imperial, New South Wales,
Victorian, and South Australian Governments!
will be dispatched from their Wharf, Circular
Quay, as under, for LONDON, calling at Mel-
bourne, Adelaide, Albany, Colombo, Aden, Brin-
disi, Malta, Gibraltar, and Plymouth.
Steamers.
Commander.
Parramatta 4771 R. G. Murray .. Feb. 15 Feb. 21 Feb 24
Oceana .. 6362 P. S. Tomlin ~ Mar, 1 Mar. 7 Mario
Shannon .. 4189 C. R. Edwards., Mar. 15 Mar. 21 Mar2t
Arcadia .. 6362 W. B. Andrews Mar. 29 April 4 Aprl 7
Britannia ~ 6257 J. Orman .. .. April 12 April 18 Ap. 21
Carthage . .15013 W. A. Wheler .. May 5 May 10 Mayl4
And henceforth every alternate week.
RESERVED CABINS ON MODERATE
TERMS.
SALOON PASSENGERS MAY BREAK
THEIR JOURNEY.
The arrangements for SECOND SALOON
PASSENGERS having been thoroughly re-
organised, the accommodation now offered is un-
surpassed.
Passage-money can be paid here for passages
from England. Liberal concessions made to
families.
Passengers, cargo, and parcels are booked through
to India, China, and Japan. Cargo and parcels
will not be received after 3 p.m. on the day pre-
vious to sailing.
For all information apply at the Company’s
Offices, 247 George-street.
A. MACLEAN, Acting Agent.
COMPAGNIE DES MESSAGERIES MARI-
TIMES.
SYDNEY to LONDON.
OVERLAND FROM MARSEILLES via PARIS.
Steamers under postal contract with the Government of
France, calling at MELBOURNE ADELAIDE, KING
GEORGE’S SOUND, MAKE, SUEZ, and PORT SAID.
Passengers booked to KURRACHEE, BOMBAY,
MAURITIUS, and EAST COAST of AFRICA.
The service is carried on by powerful steamers of 4000
tons and 3000 effective h.p., built expressly for the Aus-
tralian and New Caledonian line, which will be despatched
as follows: —
And thenceforward on the 25th of each month.
Rates of passage-money to Marseilles from £2O to £66,
including table wines and Suez Canal dues on passengers.
RETURN TICKETS issued at the following rates
English interpreters meet through passengers for
London on arrival of steamers at Marseilles, and accom-
pany them to Paris and Calais.
N.B.—Passengers’ luggage conveyed free of cost from
Marseilles to London.
For freight, passage, and further particulars apply at
the Company’s Office, 15 Maoquarie-place.
H. DE POSSEL,
Acting Principal Agent.
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF NEW
ZEALAND, Limited.
SAN FRANCISCO ROYAL MAIL SERVICE.
OVERLAND ROUTE TO ENGLAND VIA SAN
FRANCISCO AND NEW YORK,
Calling at
AUCKLAND and HONOLULU,
Avoiding alike the heat of the Red Sea and the cold
of Cape Horn.
Under Contract with the Postmasters-Gcneral of New
South Wales and New Zealand, the steamers of this line
are appointed to leave Sydney and Auckland for Honolulu
and San Francisco every four weeks, sailing as under:—
Each steamer carries a duly qualified surgeon.
These steamers are fitted with Electric Light and with a
Refrigerating Chamber for ship provisions, insuring a
plentiful supply of ice throughout the voyage.
Passengers are booked to San Francisco or; through to
European destinations and have at San Francisco choice of
the unrivalled Atlantic Steamship Lines of the Cunard,
Inman, White Star, and other companies.
All first-class passengers are allowed 3501 b. of baggaga
to San Francisco and 2501 b. “Overland ” free of charge.
THROUGH FARE TO LIVERPOOL.
FIRST-CLASS £63 to £66.
Time-cards, railway maps, and gu de books, showing all
routes to any point in the United States, may be had on
application
For rates of passage and freight and all other informa-
tion apply at the Company's Offices, 16 Bridge-street.
FREDK. W. JACKSON, Manager.
The Lessons of the Divorce Court: An
Advanced View.
There are signs that the moral tension of Divorce
Court scandals is nearing the breaking-point.
The award of £4OOO damages in a recent ease has
been too much even for that immaculate organ of
conventional respectability, the London Daily
News. That a husband should gain a small for-
tune by his wife’s inconsistency to him; that he
should publicly accept this from the man who has
supplanted him in the affections of his wife ; that
a dozen staid specimens of the genus paterfamilias
should be clapped into a jury-box and assigned
the curious task of assessing the pecuniary value
of a runaway wife; that they should accept this
task con amove, without seeing the irony of the
situation ; that the more strait-laced the jury the
higher should be their estimate of worth of an un-
faithful spouse; and that the law, in all the
majesty of wig and gown, should preside over this j
sorry farce, and keep its countenance meanwhile, j
is one testimony among a thousand of the over- !
whelming influence of custom in rendering men
insensible to the grossest absurdity, in reconciling
them to the most flagrant injustice, in bereaving
them of any rational apprehension of the evil they
desire to cure, in making them indelicate in the
name of delicacy, in making them give legal sanc-
tion and support to prostitution while seeking to
place a penalty on adultery.
In such a case as that to which 1 have referred,
what have we ? It is plain that if the woman
could have obtained release from her legal obliga-
tion to act as the wife of the man whom she had
married, she would, in all probability, have done
so. Her elopement, however much of evil there
may have been in it —and there may have been
Very much —was her method of escape from a
coercive tie. It is evident that this tie had be-
come irksome to her—that she had ceased to love
her husband, and preferred the intimacy of an-
other man. Now, what I want this £4OOO jury to
tell me is this : What ought she to have done un-
der these circumstances ? Continue to cohabit
with her husband ? Act so as to be in outward
appearance a loving wife ? I have known several
cases in which this has been done; and I can ad-
mire and respect the women who have done it; but
what I am not so sure about is that the sacrifice
made by these women, however noble, was produc-
tive of good. Of this lam quite certain—that no
woman should ever, with my knowledge, make
this sacrifice to me ; and, if I thought that men
realise what they are doing in holding women to
such a bondage, I would—well, I cannot say what
I would think of these men. My vocabulary does
not contain terms of contempt strong enough.
Let us suppose that the husband knows that he
has lost the affection of his wife, that she would
prefer to be with another, but that, having entered
into a legal contract to be his for life, she yields
herself up lo him. What has he ? Has he a
woman or a carcase ? He may have done his best
to keep her love. He may deserve that love far
better than him to whom it has strayed. The loss
of her may make a cruel gap in his life, and the
step she desires to take may bring her as little
happiness as it brings to him. I have assuredly
no wish to paint in other than the sombre colours
which truth exacts the errors of inconstancy.
That is not a high nature which can lightly admit
others to the closest intimacy, which is changeful
in this respect, or on which the fact of having
been in such intimacy does not tend to surround
with a halo the other party to it. To me it seems
that there is so much in nature that tends to per-
manence in this respect, that couples would often
keep together were they free to separate, whereas
the galling of the handcuffs now induces them to
break them, and involves in ruin the natural tie
with which they are associated.
What man of feeling would wish to keep for hi s
wife an unwilling woman ? The desire to do this
naturally breeds hatred. Even in those cases, to
which I have before referred, in which coercion is
not resorted to by the husband, but in which the
woman represses the desire to escape from an un-
congenial partnership, the daily friction of inti-
mate association with an unloved spouse proves,
in nine cases out of ten, too much for ordinary
human nature to bear. Indeed, even in cases
where love between a married couple is undoubted,
it is not always wise to draw very extensively on
this. It is not of material things only that value
decreases with quantity. Many a man and woman
ruin their chances of a happy life by demanding
too much of eaeh other; and this danger is, of
course, still greater when the demand proceeds
from one side alone. Just as the food we like
best may become nauseous by our being dosed with
it too often, so may the company of those who are
first in our affections become a bore and a source
of irritation to us if it is forced on us at every turn
without the possibility of escape. I would press
strongly on wives and husbands a wise economy in
this respect. Those who wish to be valued should
take care not to cheapen themselves by too large a
supply.
I know that this may mean that the loved one
may take pleasure in the company of others. Why
not? There is nothing more fatal to love than
any attempt to interfere in this respect. Who can
love that to which he is forcibly restricted ? The
wife who watches her husband about and never
leaves him for five minutes alone in the company
of other women is really making his love for her
an impossibility. And the same is true with the
sexes reversed. The opposite course may involve
risks. The best course in such matters always
does involve risk. It is the price we pay for the
most beautiful flowers of human affection, any
attempt to grasp which by force inevitably leads
to their withering in our hands.
I have had an excellent opportunity of studying
another case winch has recently been decided by
the Divorce Court, the wife being convicted of
adultery at the suit of the husband, and his peti-
tion for a dissolution of the marriage being
granted. Here, although the wife resisted the
petition for a divorce, it is clear that, to put it
mildly, she cared nut for her husband, and had no
desire to resume conjugal intimacy with him. She
naturally resisted a process which would affix a
stigma on her reputation. And her husband had
no desire to affix that stigma. He lamented that
the law made the public besmearing of the reputa-
tion of the woman who—however coldly and even
unjustly she may have treated him-was the
mother of his children, a condition of his release
from an intolerable tie and the rescue Of his chil-
dren froin associations which he considered unde-
sirable, in their interest. And he desired no com-
pensation from the poacher on the marital domain.
In an interview I had with him he expressed the
most emphatic disgust of any man receiving pay-
ment for the carnal intimacy of another man with
his wife.
Now why, in a case like this, in which both
parties would, presumably, have been glad to have
arranged the conditions of divorce privately and
amicably—why should they not have been allowed
to do so ? What good is attained by anyone, save
a certain class of newspaper writers, through the
publicity given to these cases? And why should
the adultery of the one, er the adultery and
cruelty of the other, be made a conditio sine qua
non of divorce ? Is it not too bad that only per-
sons who stray in this manner can get release from
an unhappy marriage ? Why should such a pre-
mium be put on adultery? And why should we
tolerate the public pelting of those who have
offended in this respect? We abolished the
pillory because it was an engine of public
demoralisation. But is the- moral pillory of
the Divorce Court one whit more defensible ?
What real gentleman or lady cares ter-know
that Mrs. Snboks has been seen by some pry-
ing or lying chambermaid under compromising
circumstances, or that some middle-aged patef-
familias has been compelled to admit that he has
not been strictly monogamic ? The desire to know
such things is certainly not one which ought to be
encouraged by the legislature.
I can see no reason why divorce should not be as
easy as marriage. In the one case, as in the other,
securities should be taken for regularity, serious-
ness, and the absence of obstacles ; but, if these
cannot be shown, a marriage should be dissolved
with as much facility, and as little of attendant
disgrace, as it is solemnized. —“ /A,” in National
Reformer,
There is a Doctor Lancelot in Melbourne.
Good name for a surgeon.
The divine right of the feminine gender
to get married if it feels so disposed has been
triumphantly vindicated by Mrs. Mary Scanlan,
who came out from England under contract to act
as serving maid to Mrs. Jones, of Malvern
(Melb.). Mary booked her passage from home as
“ Miss Rowden,” but after nine days of single
blessedness upon the briny she had reduced a Mr.
Scanlan to such a condition of red-hot love that
he took her ashore at Naples and married her
under the bright Italian sky. So when Mary
reached Melbourne she politely intimated to Mrs.
Jones that she had taken another situation as per-
petual cook to the husband of her bosom, and
wouldn’t be able to carry out the agreement
made while she was yet in ignorance of Scanlan,
and didn’t know what his intentions were.
Thereupon Mistress Jones foamed at the mouth,
and said it was disgraceful for a girl to get mar-
ried if she wanted to, and took counsel with a
number of her social “circle,” who advised her to
plunge Mary into prison. The blushing bride
was accordingly torn from the clinging arms of
her Scanlan, and might have been hanged without
the option of a fine if Mrs. Jones had not merci-
fully discovered that she mustn’t “ press the
charge.” Mary Scanlan is now roaming at large,
and tier would-be mistress is slowly grasping the
fact that she didn’t buy Mary right out in Lon-
don ; also, that those whom God had joined
together Mrs. Jones mustn’t put asunder; likewise
that Scanlan and wife have on hand a fine and
lucrative-looking action for damages.
In an article on the revolution in Brazil,
the San Francisco Examiner has this to say
concerning a somewhat peculiar action of Dom
Pedro’s daughter:—
Crown Princess Isabella, some years ago, created a
great sensation in Rio by appearing in the morning at the
cathedral dressed in the plain garb of a working-woman
and carrying a broom. She would sweep out the building
with her own hands, and then the steps and sidewalk in
front. The newspapers made mention of it and an ex-
planation followed that the princess was doing the self-
imposed penance for some sin she felt she had committed.
People became much interested and much comment was
indulged in condemnation of the princess. She was not,
however, in the least degree influenced by it, but kept up
sweeping until she felt spiritually relieved.
The princess seems to have grown in public favor.
Recent reports from Brazil indicate that whatever feeling
of hostility toward her existed previously has been greatly
modified.
This (savs another ’Frisco paper,) is so far from
the truth, both as regards the princess’s motives
and the public sentiment toward her, that we feel
impelled to give a correct account, which is as
follows :
The persecution of Free Masons by the Catholic Church
in Brazil had become so relentless that many lives were
sacrificed, and, finally, public sympathy became so much
aroused that the law was successfully appealed to in their
defence. The Emperor quite openly supported this humane
action. Finally, two priests were sent to prison, for an
extended term, for inciting the people to acts of violence
against Masons, whose only crime was their Masonic
affiliation. A most determined effort was made to save
the criminals, and as a last resort, the strongest pressure
was brought to bear upon the Emperor to influence him
to pardon them. He remained firm and refused a pardon.
The princess, then some twenty-eight or thirty years old,
was a bigot, completely under the thumb of the priest-
hood. She beset her father with the most impassioned
appeals, which he resisted. Finally, she appeared in a
now role, doing penance for the crimes of the State against
her adored priests, and, bare-headed, barefooted, and
armed with a broom, she openly left the palace and
marched to one or more churches and swept them out.
She was followed and encouraged in this pious work by
some of the priests, who instigated the disgraceful farce.
This was repeated daily for some time, till the Emperor
gave way—-he surrendered and pardoned the criminals —
father and daughter fell upon each other’s necks and
wept. Humiliated and beaten, the Emperor asked the
Brazilian legislature for a leave of absence. This was
granted to him and a liberal appropriation also, with
which became to the Centennial Exhibition in Philadelphia,
leaving the princess as regent and free to carry out the
directions of the triumphant churchmen.


er READ THIS ! Two Pounds’ (£2) worth of these preparations sent free to any part of the colony.
Armstrong’s Citron Saline, for cooling and purifying the
blood. An aperient effervescing salt. 2s; 18s doz.
A rmstrong's Blood Purifier or Anti-Scorbutic— a valuable
remedy where the blood has become vitiated through
residence in hot climates, with usual consequences of
bad water, deficient vegetable diet. 2s; 18s doz.
Armstrong's (,'< in pound Sarsaparilla with Dandelion, lodide
of Potash, &e., for all impurities of the blood. 2s; 20s doz.
Armstrong's Eye Lotion for Blight and other inflammatory
affections of the eyes. The proprietor lias received
numerous testimonials for cures effected by this lotion
when all other means had failed. Is; 8s doz.
Armstrong’s Sugar-coated Anti-bilious Pills. An infallible
remedy in cases of indigestion and other complaints
arising from an inactive liver. Is; 8s doz.
Armstrong's Diarrhoea Mixtures gives instant relief in this
troublesome complaint. 2s; ISs doz.
•Armstrong's Gout and Rheumatic Mixture. For gout,
rheumafi an, sciatica, &e., &c. 3s 6'd ; 80s doz.
Armstrong’s (Jough Elixir. An immediate cure for colds,
coughs, influenza, &c. 2s; 18s doz.
Armstrong’s Podophylliu rills, for liver complaints, im-
purities of the blood, &e. Is; 8s doz.
Armstrong’s Phosphorous Pills, for Nervous and General
Debility, &c. Is; Bsdoz.
Armstrong’s Anodyne Liniment (or Pain Paint) for bruises,
sprains, rheumatic pains, No. 2s; 18s doz.
Armstrong’s Gough Balsam, for chronic pulmonary affec-
tions and lung diseases. 2s; 18s doz.
Armstrong’s Golden Eye Ointment, for blight and all
diseases of the eyes. Is 6d ; 13s doz.
Armstrong’s celebrated Ointment for Piles. 2s;
18s doz.
Armstrong’s Iron and Quinine Tonic, for loss of appetite,
Nervousness, General Debility, Neuralgia, &c, 2s.
Armstrong’s 156 Mixture for discharges. 3s fid.
Armstrong’s Pepsine Bismuth and Nux Vomica, for
chronic indigestion. 3s Gd &ss6d ; 30s & 58s doz.
Armstrong’s Quinine, Wine. A most reliable brain and
■ non e tonic. 2s (Sd; 20s doz.
Armstrong’s Ppdophylliu Seidlitz Powders. A mild and
pleasant aperient. 3s Gd; 15s doz.
Armstrong’s “ Arabian Ointment.” For healing all sores,
old wounds, burns, etc. (in pots). Is; 8s doz.
Armstrong's Corn Paint and Solvent, for painlessly
removing corns, bunions, warts, &e. Is; 8s doz.
Armstrong’s Toothache Drops and Carbolic Nervine, for
immediate cure of toothache. Is; 8s doz.
Armstrong’s Resin, Carbolic, Zinc, Dine, White and Red
Percipitate Ointments (in boxes). Gd ;5s doz.
Armstrong’s Dandruff Pomade, for eradicating scurf, dan-
druff, &c., from the hair. Is ;8s doz.
Armstrong’s Arabian Hair Renewer, for restoring grey
hair to its natural colour. Is Gd ; 12s doz.
Armstrong’s Arabian Insect Powder. 9d ; Gs doz.
Armstrong’s Indelible Ink, for writing on linen, silk, and
muslin. Is; 8s per doz.
Armstrong's Lima Juice and ‘Glycerine. A valuable
preparation for the hair. Is &2s; 8s & 18s doz.
Armstrong’s Transparent Cement (Cohesuline) for china,
glass, wood, leather, Ac. 6d (c Is ; 5s &Ss doz.
Armstrong's Carbolic Tooth, Powder antiseptic. Is ; 8s doz.
Armstrong’s Disinfectant, Carbolised Powder (in tins).,
for drains, etc. 9d &Is (id ; (is (id & 12s doz.
Armstrong’s bore Back Ointment forborses. 2s; A ISs doz.
Armstrong’s Carbolic Dressing, for cuts and wounds
among stock. Is &Is (id ; 8s A 15s doz.
Armstrong's Blistering Ointment the best remedy for
splints, curbs, etc. Is (id ; Ids doz.
Armstrong's Worm and Condition Powders, for horses
(in tins'. 01& Is ; 5s ifc 8s doz.
Armstrong’s Gold Paint, Copper, S.lvor and Green Bronzes,
for decorating your home ornaments, statuary, &c.
all ready mixed, (id ; 8s doz.
NVENTED, MANUFACTURED and SOLD ONLY by H. C. ARMSTRONG, George Street NORTH (Near Circular Quay), SYDNEY.
Trusses, Belts, Supports, Elastic Stockings, Knee Oafs, etc., at English Wholesale Cost. The Largest Hock m
FOR DRUGS, CHEMICALS, PATENT MEDICINES and DRUGGISTS’ SUNDRIES, SEND FOR
SPECIAL PRICK
N'/,/ Iney.
LIST (POSTED FREE).
Use BatHo’k Hakinpr Powder.
.SHOT AN AMERICAN EAGLE.
“Did you shoot anything up the country?”
asked the enquiring neighbour of the return sports-
man. “ Oh, yes,” said the true sportsman, “ I
shot an eagle off a bottle of the Anheuser St.
Louis Lager Beer.” “What did you do that for?”
“Because the bottle was empty.” “Have you
the time ?” said the neighbour to the sportsman.
“If you mean the time to take a glass of that
famous beer, I hasten to reply that I have.”
“Physicians of all schools use and recommend
Dr. Soule’s American Hop Bitters. Test them.”
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
Amusements,
f|l HEA T R E ROYAL
Under the Management of Messrs. Williamson,
Garner and Musgrove.
Lessee, Mr. S. Lazar. Treasurer,. Mr. Geo. T.. Goodimh.
LAST TWO NIGHTS! LAST TWO NIGHTS !
Williamson, Garner and Musgrove's
GRAND CH RIST M A S AN N U A L,
ALADDIIV, ALADDIN.
Admission—ss., 3s. and Is.
J||ER MAJESTY’S THEATRE.
Lessee and Manager .... Mr. Geo. Rigno'd,
Doors open at 7 ; commencing 7.30. Carriages al 10.4. V
To-Night and Every Evening,
Shakespeare's Fairy Comedy,
A MIDSUMMER NIGHT’S DREAM.
Box Office at Theatre from 10 to 5. Prices as usual.
J. P. Macdonald, Acting-Manager.
CRITERION THEATRE.
Sole Proprietor .... Mr. John Solomon.
Under the Management of Messrs. Brough and Boucieault.
General Manager . .. Mr. Mavno.
Doors Open, 7. Overture, 8. Carriages, 10.23.
TO-NIGHT, AND EVERY EVENING,
the Original Farcial Comedy in 3 acts,
"37 HEX lE3 BALLOON,
by Geo. Manville Penn and J. H. Darnley.
Preceded at 8 o'clock by
OUR BITTEREST FOE.
Admission ... £2 2s. to is.
Box Plan at Nicholson’s. Carriages at 10.25 p.m.
Joe Davis, Business Manager.
I|IHE CYCLO RAM A!
Beyond all doubt, never, in the history of Sydney, has
there been presented an exhibition at oboe so novel,
wonderful and interesting.
——The Marvellous llaille iSeene !
All the horrors of war, with its scenes of heroism, and
the full details of a widespread)ng landscape, hrough
fully before the eye of the spectator.
Open daily, 10 to 10 ; Sundays (half-price), 3to 10.
Opposite Rkdfern Railway Tkhminls.
■g O N D I AQUARIUM.
The Most Popular
PICNIC and PLEASURE GROUNDS of AUSTRALIA.
The Famous Switchback Railway, conveying
Passengers from Cliff to Cliff daily.
Splendid Asphalt Open-Air Skating-Rink Free to Visitors.
Open Daily from 10 a.in to 10 p.m.
Admission, Is,; Children, (id. Trams to Gate—Fare, 4d
SCHOOL OF ARTS.
Lessee—Mr. Harry Rickards. Treas. Mr. J. C, l.eete.
SEVENTH WEEK of Mr. HARRY RICKARDS'
New English and Irish Comedy Company.
TO-NIGHT, AND EVERY EVENING,
“ MA-IN-LAW," and another Great Olio.
jafP’ Prices— 35., 2s. and Is. Plan at Nicholson’s.
Wm. A. Jiskixs, Business Manager.
rpHE MURPHYS
A (PAT and ELLA).
Their engagement with Mr. Harry Rickards
will terminate on the Bth of June, 1890. They
will then proceed to London, in which city they
will appear at the Trocaiusuo, Canterkuuv.
Paragon and Quern’s (Poplar) Music Halls on
Bank Holiday (4th August). Their engagements
will extend to eight weeks. Engagements in
America will then follow with Williams and
Kernell’s Comedy Co., the Murphys being engaged
to that firm at the largest salary ever paid to two
artists in their capacity.
Agent for London —Fred. Higham, 143 Stanford
street, S.O.
Remember! The Murphys have an extensive
repertoire.
K HOT and COT.D \
Seawater B aths »
Warrsambood, Victoria.
FYGIEN’O, CURATIVE.
CI’RKS
SCIATICA. RHEUMATISM,
Nervous & Skin jDisoases.
Testimonials "'om nil oarts of the
Colonies.
Water direct from Southern Ocean
pumped by gas motor, retaining nil
natural qualities , tree from objec-
tions ol Bay water, targe swim
ming basins for ladies and gentle-
men. Marble plunge baths, hand
Homely appointed. Bracing air,
charming scenery, fishing, shooting,
beautiful drives place Warrhamboof
vin the front rank as a sanatorium. J
How I Won the New Zealand Cross.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
After H.B.M.’s “ swaddles ” had been re-
moved from New Zealand the Colonial Govern-
ment of the day instituted a colonial Order of
Merit, yclept the New Zealand Cross. It con-
sisted of a silver cross (somewhat similar in size
and shape to the V.C.) pendant from a crimson
ribbon. The Imperial Govern-
ment disallowed the colonial
article on the ground that it
trenched on the Royal Preroga-
tive (whatever that might be),
but it was in the ante-cablegram-
period, and by the time H.B.M.’s
veto reached the colony a whole
sackfull of crosses had been
bestowed. These could not well
be withdrawn, consequently
H.8..M. b acked down, and we
continued to bear our crosses,
the institution of which “ filled
a long-felt want,” “ took well,
and gave pleasure to all.”
At the siege of Ngatapa I
tilled the responsible posit'on of
batman to Lieut.-Colonel Smith.
Jemmy, as we called him behind
his back, was not a bad fellow ;
when perfectly sober (which, to
do him justice, he seldom was)
he was a smart officer; when
drunk he was a bully ; when he
was suffering from drink and
“had ’em bad” he was a piti-
able object, and iiad to be wound
up three times every morning
with a cork-screw before he
could put his boots on. Jemmy
was a curiously contradictory
combination. He could sing
like an Karly Christian and
swear like a latter-day bull
puncher. He could, and did on
occasions, read the Church of
England burial-service in the
most touching manner possible
and when we were briskly march-
ing away from the ceremony with
bayonets fixed and band play
ing, he'd curse and swear at
his men like Lucifer. He had
been piously bivd, and had
been reared for the Church,
but took to “ sojering ” as
his more natural vocation.
Once an itinerant parson—-an
aitchless, almost voiceless nonen
tity was laboriously grinding
out the Gospel to the men while Jemmy was grind-
ing his teeth at the parson's painful efforts till he
could bear it no longer. Striding up to the gospel -
sharp, and seizing his book, Jemmy said in a
voice of thunder, “ Here, give me the book; I’ll
show you how to read.” And he did. He read
the lessons in a most impressive manner, then,
handing the book back to the astounded white-
choker, lie bowed and left parade—to curse and
swear at me up hill and down dale because the
brandy-bottle was empty. As if he had the sole
right to an all-consuming thirst!
» *
To return to Ngatapa, however. The
native pah was situated on the top of a high hill
which was covered at foot with dense scrub (and
in New Zealand the scrub is dense). We had
opened trenches round the pah where Te Kooti
and his band were at bay, surrounded by a
cordon of sentries. We used to pour a.continuous
shower of bullets at the pah from the shelter of
these trenches, and while the Colonel would sit
down enconsced in a safe nook and have a suck at
James Hennessy, the other braves—Tom Black,
Ben Biddle, and myself would pop our heads up
every now and again over the parapet, take a
flying shot, and yell out, “Another gory Hau-hau
potted, Colonel !” “Another gone to hell !”
and so on, and so on. We three shot in this
manner, by our own computation, more Hau-haus
than Te Kooti ever had with him, and the Colonel
would grin approval, take another pull at J.H.,
and say, “ Give it ’em, boys ; give ’em slops, boys
— hir The Hau-haus would return the compli-
ment as their ammunition allowed. One after-
noon Trooper Sam Reed was shot through the
forehead and fell stone-dead close by the Colonel’s
feet, but the casualties on our side was not exces-
sively heavy.
« # •
My duties (this reckless slaughter of the
enemy being only an amusement pour passer Ic
temps) were to keep the colonel supplied with
liquor. He'd have died had the supplies been
suddenly stopiied. He was, as I have already
said, dreadfully bad of a morning until he had
got outside of a good half-bottle, and the
mounted men charged a pound for bringing a
Ixittle in their saddle bags up from Gisborne.
The colonel was, however, well in with one of the
staff-surgeons and used to work on the “medical
comforts ” supplied for the forces. These “ medi-
cal comforts,” supplied liberally by the Govern-
ment and paid for by the people, never reached
the men for whom they were intended; no one
under the rank of sergeant-major, quarter master-
sergeant, commissariat-issuer, or staff-officer s
hitman ever got any. Now, to reach the “ medi
cal c mfort ” haven 1 had to cross from one line of
trendies to another, to run the blockade and cross
round to the further side of the jxih we were be-
sieging. One dav, when taking a note from the
colonel to the medico, 1 observed that a fresh stock
and large supply of “comforts,” had arrived ; I
n ited, too, that it had been planted in a small
dog-kennel sort of tent, made of oil skin sheets,
secure from observation among some bushes. I
took mental note of the exact latitude and longi-
tude of that cache. I could have found my way
there blindfolded.
* # #
That night I did find my way there, not
blindfolded; but it was a dark, cloudy night,
slightly diizzling. I took a couple of calabashes
with me. Calabashes are gourds hollowed out by
the natives and having a finger-hole to carry them
by. I collared four bottles of Hennessy, packed
them carefully, straw envelopes and all, in a
vK
or
w
< s
w o
~ a.
® >-
4 uj,
Ul I/)/
a- e
A Sure pwnfiie'
'a* ccsed fy 3*
~ >- JdpffLm p
C'V'
r BIG FLEAS HAVE LITTLE FLEAS
UPON THEIR SACKS THAT BITE 'EM
THE LITTLE FLEAS HAVE LESSER FLEAS
AND SO AD INFINITUM "
sugar-bag that 1 had for the nonce
converted into a havrasaok, and filled
my calabashes well up with commis-
sariat rum. I had also filled myself up,
and I forgot to allow for this in my
mental calculations. I found my way there right
enough, but could not find my way back. In crawl-
ing cautiously along what I thought was the track
I must have lost my reckoning, as—er —crash—I
fell with a “ dull sickening thud ” through yielding
fern and bending supplejack — down—down—
down ! Exactly how long I lay there I don’t
rightly know, but when I awoke my first query
naturally was—“Where the deuce am I?”
* # *
I had evidently fallen down the side of a
precipitous gorge. It could not have been a
high one, because neither bones nor bottles were
broken, and even one of the calabashes had a
good nip left in it. Heavens, what’s this ? As I
lived, there was a procession of crouching forms
just dimly discernible through the mist. The
clouds had lifted, and these dimly-seen forms
could be seen stealing quietly along a narrow track
below me. Voices too, speaking in whispers—
and in Maori! One figure seemed to be carrying
a load, a human burthen. Can they be friendlies
making a midnight attack? By heavens, no, they
are coming from, not going to —Ngatapa ! The
Hau-haus have left the pan, and are leaving us
only the empty shell.
# * *
Gathering myself together I crawled up
the gorge, and, leaving my empty calabashes
behind, reached our trenches safely. I was soon
at the Colonel’s tent; he needed no rousing. “ A
of a time you’ve been !” was his greeting, but
his ire vanished when he saw the bottles, and after
he had revived the inner man I told him the
news. He saw his opportunity, and within a few
minutes of my arrival No. 1 Division was crawling
uphill towards Ngatapa. Before daylight we had
possession of an empty pah, and Thomas Black,
Ben Biddle, Rowley Hill, and myself were the
first in. That’s how I won the New Zealand
Cross, and when I cross over the herring-pond to
pay Governor Onslow a friendly visit the guard at
Wellington Government House gate will have to
turn out to do honour to my little bit of crimson
riblxm with silver star pendant therefrom. Just
at present I don’t happen to bother about “Guard,
turn out 1” The only “ turn out ” 1 get is to turn
out and ride round the paddock boundaries, or
else to clean the station “ turn-out.”
# # #
The Hau-haus escaped from Ngatapa m
the manner described, passing in the fog through
our cordon of sentries, and To Kooti, who was
wounded in the font, was carried pack-a-baok by
one of his wives, Susan by name. Susan was soon
afterwards captured, or “came in " voluntarily, 1
forget which. She saw the error of her ways and
forsook Hau-hauistn and the Hau-haus for rum
and the company of pakehas. When last 1 saw
her she was washing and keeping house (a raupo
whnrr) for a full-blown private in the N.Z. Armed
Constabulary. From To Kooti, the valiant arcli-
*• rebel," with a pedigree of thirty generations, to
a common bobby “What a falling-off was there !”
Bakulox.
Dear Bulletin,—! notice that you query
my statement that in the Australia* a woman may
not marry her deceased husband’s brother. _ I
know that the Scripture, expressly commands it,
under certain certain circumstance, but Christians
nowadays accept the Bible with modifications.
Abraham married his sister ; Lot had children by
his daughter; and Solomon entered the matri-
monial market “wholesale, retail, and for expor-
tation.” The Prayer-Book forbids marriage be-
tween man and woman bearing the relation stated,
and in South Australia and Victoria, at least, the
law follows the rubric, while, I am assured, a
similar disability exists in N.S.W. _ The law,
with regard to marriage in Victoria, is thus
stated in Dr. Hearn’s “ General Code, 1885 ”
(since which date there has been no alteration) : —
Partxii., division I., sub-division A, clause 7. No man
shall marry:—
(a) His mother, his daughter, his grand-daughter, his
sister, his aunt, or
(b) The daughter or the grand-daughter of his wife, or
(c) A woman who has at any time been the wife of his
father, or of his son, or of his wife’s son, or of hi»
brother, or of his uncle.
With regard to the law in South Australia, here is
a story which I know to be true in all its particu-
lars :—At a little town near Adelaide dwelt a
widow named (say) Smith, who had an only son.
This young fellow compromised himself with a
girl living in the neighbourhood. The girl’s
mother reported the matter to a clergyman, who,
actuated by the very best intentions, pro-
ceeded, in the high-handed fashion peculiar
to clerics, to insist upon the instant marriage
of the young couple. Mrs. Smith, whose
son was under age, did not approve of this, and,
as a last resource, appealed to the local police-
magistrate, who warned the clergyman, but the
latter took no notice, and persisted in doing what
he considered his duty in the matter. An action
was brought against the clergyman for a breach
of the Marriage Act, and Mr. (now Judge)
Bundey came up from Adelaide to defend, there
being much local speculation as to the excuse or
justification which was to be offered. Mr. Bundey
was reticent but confident. The case proceeded
without attempt at cross-examination until Mrs.
Smith entered the box. Mr. Bundey then woke to
activity and said :—“ You have been married
twice, Mrs. Smith?” “Yes.” “The father of
this boy was not your first husband? “No.”
“But he was a brother of your first husband, I
believe?” “Yes.” That was all. Mr. Bundey
turned to the magistrates and smilingly remarked,
“I submit, your Worships, that the case must
break down here. The second marriage was
against the law of the land, and the son, the bride-
groom—I am sorry I am compelled to say it—is
illegitimate. There is no proof that Mrs. .Smith
has been appointed guardian of the boy, and so
she has no locus staniti . for the guardian is the
only person empowered by law to initiate a prose-
cution.” The court reluctantly agreed and the
parson went on his way rejoicing. It was this
incident which first drew my attention to the
anomaly, concerning which I sent you a few
rhymes. —Yours truly, C. R. Wilton.


—the -
Fresh Pood & |ce O
LIMITED,
HARBOUR STREET,
SYDNEY,
Are evidently determined to go ahead. They are
now supplying Customers who take a Quart op
Milk and Over per Day at
THREEPENCE PER QUART!
This appears very wonderful, but %t is
quite true.
Weekly ounts.
Royal hotel.
Esplanade,
ST. HILDA, VICTORIA,
Facing Beach, close to Pier and Baths. Ten
minute® from Station.
H. lIDOU'EY - - - - Proprietor.
, LIVERY LETTING STABLES ATTACHED.
Telephone 682.
First-class Accommodation for Visitors
J]D¥IN G. GOEETZ,
Stock and Share Broker,
ag-eut,
BRISBANE,
Member of the Brisbane Stock Exchange
Business Announcements.
WOOL. WOOL.
THE NEW ZEALAND
Loan & Mercantile Agency
COMPANY. LIMITED.
BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Capital, £4,500,000 ... Reserve, £270.000
Wool lBBB-89.
Regular Sales of Wool Held Throughout the
Season.
r pplE greatest care bestowed on the Valuation and the
Displaying and Protecting all Wools entrusted to
the Company for sale, whether from large or small clips.
fc# 1 “ Growers Advised and Consulted with before Sales
of their Clips are made.
Liberal Cash Advances, where desired, on Wool lieu
of Ensuing Clip, and on Wool and other Produce, whether
for sale in Sydney or shipment to London.
Auction Sales op Sheep Skins, Marsupial
Skins, Hides, Tallow, &c„ Held Regularly.
pg*” Every Information Supplied on Application.
G. S. CAMPBELL, Manager.
SYDNEY WOOL & GRAIN WAREHOUSES
Bridge and Loptus Streets.
impeeial hotel
TOOWOOMBA, QUEENSLAND.
Acknowledged the Best Hotel on the Darling-
Downs. First-class Accommodation.
Private Suites first Class Sample Rooms.
Conveyance Meets Every Train.
JOHN LONG - - Late of Niw Zealand.
PIPES.
SMOKE NOTHING
PIPES.
THE BEST IN THE WOULD.
Wholesale Agents :
JULIUS GOLDSCHMIDT & CO.
231 Clarence Street.
First Prize -MELBOURNE EXHIBITION.
J. LUDOWICI & SOUS,
Manufacturers and Importers of
Superior Oak-Tanned Leather Belting - ,
And every description of
Leather goods for Machine and Engineering Purposes-
Hydraulic
Leathers.
£
I n
lISHfB
Tangye Pump
Leathers.
All goodfi bearing the above Trade Mark are warranted to
give satisfaction, or may be returned at our expense.
o
Office and Factory: 163 Clarence-St., Sydney,
Between King and Market Streets.
TO ADVERTISERS.
We undertake the advertising of large business
houses —filing every paper advertised in, checking
appearances, and watching the interests of our
clients. We ean save you money, time and
anxiety. Write for our pamphlet “How to
Advertise, and W 7 hy.” F. X. WIMBLE & CO.,
Newspaper Advertising Bureau, Basement A.J.S.
Bank, 369,371 & 373 George-st., Sydney. Estimates
given for any number of papers by return mail.
gFDNEY TAKES THE LEAD.
The Sydney Ladies’ and Gentlemen’s
Hair dresssing Palace
AND
TOILETTE REQUISITES,
82 SeiXjXTO- STREET.
(Directly opposite the Arcade),
NOW OPEN.
The Public Verdict—A long-felt want filled,
an Establishment that Sydney can be proud of.
No Expense has been spared in fitting up this
Establishment for the convenience and comfort of
its patrons.
A large staff of the very best Gentlemen Work-
men are employed in the Ladies’ and Gentlemen’s
Hairdressing Looms, and all work Is guaranteed.
A SELECT STOCK OE
Gentlemen’s Mercery Perfumery,
Ladies’ and Gentlemen’s Toilet Requisites.
Cigars, Cigarettes, Tobacco, &c-,
Sold at the Lowest Cash Prices.
•LAUNDRY AGENCY, &c., &c.
Sydney and Melbourne Daily and Weekly Papers
kept on File.
All Ladies and Gentlemen are invited to visit
and inspect this establishment, and be, convinced
that it is not equalled in the Southern Hemisphere.
HOURS :
From 8.30 a.m. to 7 p.m. SATURDAYS, 9 p.m.
Medical
ik
V-i
\ fj
V
Tiie Seven Gjutfcura Bovs
These seven beautiful boys owe their beauty of
skin, luxuriance of hair, purity of blood, and
freedom from hereditary taint or humors of the skin
or scalp to the celebrated Cuticura Remedies.
For cleansing, purifying and beautifying the skin
of children and infants, and curing torturing, dis-
figuring, itching, scaly and pimply diseases of the
ekin, scalp and blood, with loss of hair, from in-
fancy to old age, Cuticura, the great skin cure,
and Cuticura Soar, an exquisite skin beautifier,
prepared from it externally, and Cuticura Re-
solvent, the new blood purifier, internally, are
infallible.
Your most valuable Cuticura Remedies have
done my child so much good that I feel like saying
this for the benefit of those who are troubled with
skin disease. My little girl was troubled with
Eczema, and I tried several doctors and medicines,
but did not do her any good until I used the Cuti-
cura Remedies, which speedily cured her, for
which I owe you many thanks and many nights of
rest. ANTON BOSSIMEB, Edinburgh, Ind.
The Cuticura Remedies are in great demand.
The Cuticura Resolvent sells better than any
other blood purifier. The Cuticura Soap is
praised by my customers, especially mothers, who
say it is the best for babies, preventing and curing
scall head and similar diseases.
GEORGE HOBBS, P. M., Collins, Texas.
PIM
IPLES, blackheads, red, rough, chapped and
| oily skin prevented by Cuticuea Soap.
Our little son will be four years of age on the
25th inst. Id May, 1885, he was attacked with a
very painful breaking out of the skin. We called
in a physician, who treated him for about four
weeks. The child received little or no good from
the treatment, as the breaking out, supposed by
the physician to be hives in an aggravated form,
became larger in blotches and more and more dis-
tressing. We were frequently obliged to get up
in the night and rub him with soda in water,
strong liniments, etc. Finally, we called other
physicians, until no less than six bad attempted to
cure him, all alike failing, and the child steadily
getting worse and worse,, until about the 20th of
last July, when wo began to give him Cuticuba
Resolvent internally, and the Ccticuba and Cu-
ticuba Soap externally, and by the last of August
he was so nearly well that we gave him only one
dose of the Resolvent about every second day
for about ten days longer, and he has never been
troubled since with the horrible malady.
H. E. RYAN, Cayuga, Livingston Co., HI.
Subscribed and sworn to before me this fourth
day of January, 1887. C. N. COE, J P.
Sold everywhere. Price: Cuticuba, 50c,; Soap,
25c.; Resolvent, $l. Prepared by the Potter
Drug and Chemical Co., Boston, Mass.
JSQf Send for “How to Cure Skin Diseases,” 64
pages, 50 illustrations, and 100 testimonials.
BABY'S
Skin, Bcalp and hair preserved and beau-
tified by the use of Cuticuka Soap.
Address: K. TOWNS & CO., SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Business Announcements.
Federated Squatters
—AND—
Farmers’ Co-Operative Association of Australasia, Limited,
CIBCTJLAE QUAY, S'Y’ZDH^ZBYT.
WOOL and PRODUCE BROKERS, STOCK and STATION AGENTS.
Advances Made and Deposits Received at Current Rates. Correspondence Invited.
m
>c-
Eresfcs
1 EI
to
■ : '
Guinness’ Extra Stout,
FIRST QUALITY.
Bass Pale Ale,
FIRST QUALITY.
Sole Pueveyobb to the
Colonial & Indian Exhibition,
London,
(By Special Appointment).
Wholesale Agents : Balchin, Johnston & Co., Sydney.
M. B. FOSTEK & SOWS, LONDON,
“BUGLE” BBAIsTT3 .A. Xj IE JAZUTID STOUT.
)(
PUBLIC NOTICE.
It having come to our knowledge that ALE and STOUT of very inferior quality, in bottles with
slciUKMy forged labels have lately been palmed off on the public :
We desire to warn our friends of the fact, and to state that all corks as well as capsules of the
bottles shipped by Messrs. M. B. POSTER & SONS to this colony bear their name and address.
Any information respecting Bottled Beer purporting to be “Eobtee’s Buena Beand ” offered
for sale without these corks and capsules will be esteemed by the undersigned, who have instruc-
tions to bring to justice the perpetrators of the frauds.
A Liberal Reward will he given for information leading to conviction of the offenders.
x
BiALCBEIKT, JOUKTSTOKT & 00., Sydney,
Agents foe Messes. M. B. Eostes & Sons.
for Kupper’s Elloerfeld Lager Beer
(Specially Brewed for Australia). Absolutely Free from Sediment.
THOMAS BffiCEEEE Y=
MEDICAL HERBALIST,
83 Oxford Street, 4 doors above Eftey Street.
Private Diseases of Bqth Sexes a Speciality:
Consultations' Gratis. Charges very Moderate.
A Trial Solicited.
A SPEEDY CURE GUARANTEED.
RICHMOND FAMILY HOTEL*
, POH.T3L.ANI>, VICTORIA.
John Shelton - Proprietor.
Bret Harte’s Latest Poem.
THE STATION MASTER OF LONE PRAIRIE.
(UNION PACUFIC RAILROAD 1880.)
An empty bench, a sky of grayest etching,
A bare bleak shed in blackest silhouette,
Twelve yards of platform, and, beyond them
stretching,
Twelve miles of prairie glimmering through the
wet.
North, south, east, west—the same dull gray per-
sistence,
The tattered vapours of a vanished train,
The narrowing rails that meet to pierce the
distance,
Or break the columns of the far-off rain.
Naught but himself—nor form nor figure waking
The long hushed level and stark shining waste —
Nothing that moves to fill the vision aching
Where the last shadow fled in sullen haste.
Nothing beyond. Ah, yes ! From out the station
A stiff gaunt figure thrown against the sky,
Beckoning me with some WQoden salutat on
Caught from his signals as the train flashed by ;
Yielding me place beside him with dumb gesture
Born of that reticence of sky and air.
We sit apart, yet wrapped in that one vesture
Of silence, sadness, and unspoken care;
Each following his own thought—around us,
darkening,
The rain-washed boundaries and stretching
• track ;
Each following those dim parallels and hearkening
For long-lost voices that will not come back-;
Until, unasked —I knew not why or wherefore —
He yielded, bit by bit, his dreary past.
Like gathered clouds that seemed to thicken there
for
Some dull down dropping of their care at last.
“ Long had he lived there. As a boy had started
From the stacked corn the Indian’s painted
face ;
Heard the wolves’ howl the wearying waste that
parted
His father’s hut from the last camping-place.
“ Nature had mocked him ; thrice had claimed the
reaping
With scythe of fire of lands he once had sown ;
Sent the tornado— round his hearthstone heaping
Rafter, dead faces, that were like his own.
“Then came the War-time. When its shadow
beckoned
He had walked dumbly where the flag had led
Through swamp and fen—unknown, unpraised,
unreckoned—
To famine, fever, and a prison-bed ;
“ Till the storm passed, and the slow tide returning
Cast him, a wreck, beneath his native sky ;
At this lone watch gave him the chance of earning
Scant means to live—who won the right to die. ”
All this I heard —or seemed to hear—half blending
With the low murmur of the coming breeze,
The call of some lost bird of the unending
And ceaseless sobbing of those grassy seas.
Until at last the spell of desolation
Broke with a trembling star and far-off cry.
The coming train ! I glance around the station.
All is as empty as the upper sky !
Naught but myself —nor form nor figure waking
The long-hushed level and stark, shining waste —
Naught but myself, that cry, and the dull shaking
Of wheel and axle, stopped in breathless haste !
“Now then—look sharp! Eh, what? The
station-master ?
Thar's none! We stopped here of our own
accord.
The man got killed in that down-train disaster
This time last evening. Right there ! All
aboard !”
Photography. —Charlemont and Co. (viceregal
photographers), in the Royal Arcade, beg to an-
nounce that they have now reduced the price of
their Cabinet Photographs to One Guinea per doz.
any style—bust, vignette or three-quarter figure.
Messrs. Charlemont feel assured that this reduc-
tion in price will meet the many who refrained
from sitting in their studio, solely on account of
the price hitherto being higher than they might
eare to pay. Grosvenor Galleries, Royal Arcade.


ď
Q
U
O
N
G
T
A
R
T
&
C
O
M
P
A
N
Y
Q
U
o
N
G
T
A
R
T
Sc
c
o
M
P
A
N
Y
137 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
đ
21
•nr’ &
«AHUe*€TuR£R9
»IMPORTERS Of
HATS CAPS
£EORCE ST
3VDNEY 1
0/>po3i (e jLassrtCefj
n
&
Branch :
678 GEORGE STREET,
BRICKFIELD HILL,
(Next to Craig and Aitken.)
o
BARRY’S
flttcopheroos
FOR
THE HAIR
f
An elegant dress
ing. exquisitely per
fumed removes all
impurities from the
scalp, prevents baldness and gray hair, and
causes the hair to grow Thick. Soft and
Beautiful. Infallible for curing eruptions
of the skin, diseases of the glands, muscles
and integuments, and relieving cuts, burns,
bruises, sprains, &c.
Barry’s Pearl Cream
Imparts to the darkest skin a clear, natural
white, tinged with the faintest rose blush
It speedily removes wrinkles, freckles, sun
burn and tan, and mantles the'faded cheek
with youthful bloom and beauty.
Barry’s Hair Dye.
Put up in two forms, with and without
a preparation Without the preparation,
gradually colors the hair any shade desired,
from a light brown to a black With the
preparation, instantly colors tfie hair a na-
tural jet black the moment it is applied.
CctttHon- None of these preparations gen-
uine without the trade mark of Barclay
& Co , New York, affixed to each bottle.
THE PRESCRIPTION
x>. c. x>.
WHAT IS IT?
Ciliienf Lifs kw Coapasy,
LIMITED.
Capital £200.000.
Head Office;
21 Castlereagh St., Sydnsy,
With Branches and Agencies throughout the Colonies.
Wew Business:
1887 There were Issued 10,557 Policies.
1888 „ „ 34,084 „
1880 ii i> to 18th October 48,833 „
These figures sliow the wonderful progress of the
Company and the high esteem placed upon its
liberal dealings by the public.
CLAIMS PMD
Immediately mi Proof of Death
JAMES P. OARVAN
WM. ALEX. SM4TH,
Managing Director.
Sfecretary.
Business Announcements.
“<r
r
x.
Q%tRT$
□
MON
A
NT
moNM
,
a
V.,
AL.
ROBERTS & CO.
~W HOLESALE-
Ironmongers, lron and Machinery Merchants*
HAY AND ENGIHE STREETS SYDNEY,
Head Office: 85 Graceclmrch Street, London, E.C.
IMPORTERS OF
Railway Sc Bridge Contractors'
Plumbers'
Squatters'
)
1
Requirements
IN
Great Variety.
' IMPORTERS OF
Engineers' and Blacksmiths’
Conchbuilders’
_ Mining
AGENTS FOR:
Porting s Gfls Engines The best and cheapest yet made. Automatic self-governing, thus savin®* cost of gas
Braldock’s Water and Gas Meters and Gas Lamps. Reading Iron Works Universal (Split) Pulley Wheels!
Howe’s Platform and Counter Weighing Machines and Weighbridges.
s
HIGHLY IMUTRITJVE
MAY BE OBTAINED IN LABELLED TINS Utt PAL’RETS I HKUUKHQUT THE CniUNY.
v..xJV/»
DOWS
[vEMBROCATION
■nil
“jSV ■■■ ' '
mm
la 1
ir Vo'
'\£VERy,WHEfIE'\ \ft'|
d
OlxccST ! Cliaff! Cbaff i
ANOTHER NEW DEPARTURE.
The CITY PRODUCE COMPANY
] laving erected the most complete and extensive
Chaff-cutting Plant in New South Wales, are in a
position to supply a
Single Bug of ChafT at Wholesale Prices
for CASH.
Oaten Chaff, 4/6 per cwt.'j
Mixed ~ 3/6 per cwt. I
Oaten ~ 4/6 per cwt. j(
Mixed ~ 3/6 per cwt. J
Quality
Guaranteed.
Free delivery within the oity. Horse-feed of all
descriptions of best quality at lowest prices for
Cash. One trial only is requested. We guarantee
to give satisfaction.
CITY PRODUCE CO.,
Hay Street, Haymarket, SYDNEY.
ix
'every
"DESCRIPTION
HAIR WORK DO*JE
4
y"
4y
PRIVATE
ROOMS
FOR LADIES
22*24
, < 'mY , AIAICADE\
MELBOURNE
DU. SMITH, XT.S.A..,
MEDICAL EXPERT
In PRIVATE COMPLAINTS of BOTH SEXES.
A Prompt and Safe Cure Guaranteed.
CONSULTING ROOMS:
Nos. 7 & 8 First Floor, 482 GEORGE STREET,
SYDNEY.
Hours : ... From 11 a.m. till 4 p.m.
Medical.
ARE YOU NERVOUS?
IF SO,
DON’T MISS THIS !
What everyone says is bound to be true, and young
and old, rich and poor, physicians who recommend, and
patients who try
The Krupp Galvanic Chain Belt,
Ail agree in praising that most scientific of Electre
Therapeutical Appliances. For Rheumatism it is un-
rivalled. Lumbago at once succumbs to its power. The
Nervous are strengthened and the Debilitated restored to
perfect health and vigour. In short; the appliance is an
unfailing cure for all Nervous, Sexual, or Chronic Diseases,
and is GUARANTEED to ABSOLUTELY CURE, com-
pletely and lastingly, the following complaints:—
Dyspepsia, Neuralgia, Pains in the Back and Chest,
Lumbago, Catarrh, Rheumatism, Dumb Ague,
Nervous Debility, Paralysis, Kidney Complaint,
Spinal Disease, Female Weakness, Diseases of the
Liver, Impotence, Seminal Weakness, Diabetes,
Sciatica, Atrophy, Gout, Indigestion, Asthma, Piles,
Epilepsy Spermatorrhoea, Specks before the Eyes,
Excessive Heart Palpitation, Defective Memory.
An Unfailing Cure For Varicocele.
It is a PORTABLE BODY BATTERY, and contains
special appliances for both sexes; therefore, why waste
your money and health by procuring and taking USELESS
DRUGS? Electricity, when properly applied, is acknow-
ledged by all leading and unprejudiced physicians to be
the only safe and radical cure for Nervous and Sexual
Diseases, and the thousands of testimonials received by
the Krupp Belt Co. from leading personages throughout
Australasia prove the unquestionable curative properties
of Electricity as applied by theapplianoe above referred to.
Our confidence in this appliance is so complete, that
we send the Belt out on trial, and guarantee it
to give perfect satisfaction. For full particulars as to
terms, etc.; send for our lai'ge illustrated treatise, free,
in which these Belts are fully illustrated, the action of
electricity on the nervous system explained, and a lot of
useful information on nervous and sexual diseases given.
This treatise also contains facsimile of testimonials received
from some of our clients who have tried our Belts. The
originals of these testimonials produced on application.
SE3P“ The prices of the Krupp Galvanic Chain Belt and
Suspensory are from £l.
Sole Inventor Carl Krupp.
Business Manager . . A. W. Courtney.
Address all communications to the
Krupp Galvanic Chain Belt Co.,
Box 647, G.P.0., Sydney, N.S.W.
Remember—The K.G. Chain Belt cures without medicine ,
is easy to wear, is sent on approval, and the first cost is
the only cost.
INDISPENSABLE pOE L^ADIEJ
AND ALL PERSONS
With a Delicate
• T ■ mi ■ —mm . ■ ——= —— assnnasts
If you wish to Protect yourself against CHAPPED
HANDS and CRACKED Sh /.V, and to keep YOUR
COMPLEXION in good condition curing the whole
year use
MOUSONS
Cocoa Butter Soap is a real skin-beautifier, and a balm to
young' and old alike.
MOUSON & CO., PERFUMERS & TOILET SOAP MANUFACTURERS,
FRANK FORT-ON-TIIE-MAINE.
LONDON; 32 & 38 HAXNSELL-ST., E.C. PARIS: 29 RUE RADZIERILB
Full guarantee for perfect purity is offered by the
sole Manufacturers, Mouson & Co.
JULIUS GOLDSCHMIDT & 00.,
*3l CLARENCE-ST., SYDNEY,
SOLE A GENTS FOR AUSTRALASIA.
A Wonderful Remedy-
MARSHALL’S TONIC NERVINE
Is now Universally Acknowledged to be a wonderful
Remedy for Nervous and General Debility, Nervous
Prostration, Torpidity of the Liver, Indigestion, Palpit-
ation of the Heart, Nervous Headache, Diabetes, Lassitude,
Impaired Nutrition, Neuralgia, Hypochondria, Loss of
Energy, and Appetite, Female Complaints, Dizziness
Noises in the Head and Ears, Loss of Vital Power, Aloholic
Craving, Premature Decline, Impoverished Blood, Im-
paired Sight and Memory, Consumption in its early stages,
Effects of Youthful Indiscretions, Mania, and all diseased
conditions of the system preceding from Deficiency of
Nerve Force. A few doses speedily afford relief, whilst a
course effects a permanent cure. Innumerable instances
emphatically testify to the truth of this statement.
Thousands of testimonials invite the afflicted to test it for
themselves.
Sadi Drop is Worth a Drop of Gold.
There is no remedy like Marshall’s Tonic Nervine for
Fi male' Complaints. Every female should have a
bottle ready at hand, because for, Irregularities, etc.,
it surpasses all others. As the nervous systeni is the
main-spring of human vigor and healthful regularity,
so where this complicated organism is deranged, Marshall’s
T nic Nervine acts with a precision and curative effect
IP e the day spring dispersing the shades of night. The
whole organic system which depends upon the nerves for
its streams of electric force is recuperated and renewed
with this Great Vitalises The muscles rebound with the
energy of youth, appetite and healthful condition follow.
The skin becomes bright and clear, and the winter of
disease is made summer by the glorious sun of health.
Thousands of restored patients everywhere gladly support
the forcible truth of these assertions, and one trial will
render certainly doubly sure.
Marshall’s Tonic Nervine
Is sold by all Chemists and Storekeepers, and is
ONLY PREPARED BY
MARSHALL BROTHERS.
410, George Street, Sydney.
N.B.—ln consequence of spurious imitations of “Tonic
Nervine,” which are calculated to deceive the public,
Marshall Bros, have to request that purchasers see that
the Label on every bottle bears their signature, thus—
without which no bottle is genuine. Ask for Marshall’s
Tonic Nervine and see that you get it. Trade mark :
“Tonic Nervine.”
Dr. westcott’s amenorrhlba
PILLS for Ladies, when taken for a few
days before, quickly correct all irregularities
from whatever cause arising ; 2s. 9d. and 4s. 6d.,
by post 3s. and sk. W. H. SOUL and CO., 190
Pitt-street, Sydney, Agents.


Medical.
a
u
EUREKA
\s
ELECTRIC BELTiV
A / a/ V v-, . v\ k . \tvV
i
»?
A?
X
A NEVER FAILING- CURE FOR ALL.
DISEASES OF THE NERVOUS SYSTEM.
Complete with Suspensory Appliances from £l. 0. 0 and
upwards. This famous Electric Magnetic Belt will cure
N-BRVOUS DEBILITY, Seminal Debility, Impotence,
and all weakness caused by indiscretion. T ains in the
Back,. Lumbago, Giddiness, Rheumatism, Kidney and
Bladder complaints, and in fact any disease of the Nervous
Bystem. The currents are steady and constantly felt by
the wearer. It has great improvements over all other
belts, we are willing to furnish those belts on 30 days
trial, and accept payment alter they have proved them-
selves what we represent them to be. Those belts are
made for the specific purpose of producing a continuous,
mild,-soothing current of electricity through all the weak-
ened parts, restoring them to health and vigorous strength,
even the wo»st case permanently cured in three months.
It is more convenient to wear than any other Bolt.
A Book illustrated, containing full information and testi-
monials from prominent people throughout- Australia,
and informing persons how they may obtain these belts
without paying for them until they have proved them com-
petent to cure any disease of the Nervous System, will be
forwarded to any address on reseipt of a 2d stamp for
postage.
Address;- VOLTAIC BELT COMPANY
Box 916, G. P. 0., SYDNEY'S.
Dr. James D. Llewellyn,
L.E.C.P., M.R.C.S., L.S.A., LOND.,
Registered by the Medical Boards of Victoria, New South
Wales and England,
SPECIALIST
- ■ - IN —
Chronic, Nervous and Genito-Urinary Diseases,
may be consulted daily at
-3 25 LONSDALE STREET—
(between Swanston <6 Elizabeth Sts ),
MELBOURNE.
Confidence Absolute. Curable Cases Guaranteed,
J3f” All Personal Consultations are free ; but by
Letter, a Fee of £1 is charged, which is inclusive
of medicines. Patients living at a distance and
unable to attend personally can be treated by post,
and have their remedies forwarded per mail or
express to any part of Australia, carefully packed
and concealed from observation.
A Practical Manual on Special Diseases,
expressly written for the guidance of sufferers from
H Nervous Debility” and Private Diseases —price,
3s. fid. (post paid.) Copies may be obtained from
the Publishers, “ The Otto Publishing C 0.,” No. 4
A’Beckett-street, Melbourne, and all Booksellers.
d
ROSES
a
Co
THE ONLY
SEES
d
d
d
THUS valuable Lotion is guaranteed to cure SWELLING
x and SANDY BLIGHT, INFLAMED BYES and LIDS,
DIMNESS OF SIGHT, &o. It will be found very bene-
ficial and cooling to those who have weak eyes, or whose
work compels them to strain their eyes. Highly
recommended by the leading Oculists.
Manufactured only by the Proprietor,
H. A. ROSE..
Dispensing and Manufacturing Chemist,
531 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Wholesale by the Proprietor and all Wholesale Houses.
Established 1858. By Post Ss. 6d.
Manufacturer of Dr. SOUTHAN’S GOUT and
RHEUMATIC PILLS.
Jf ERVOUS DEBILITY.
Consult free, PERSONALLY, or BY POST HERR RASS-
HrsSEX. the celebrated DANISH HERBALIST and
EXPERT SPECIALIST. A medical book sent free on
receipt of a 4d., stamped self-addressed envelope, contain
wig valuable hints. Try Herr Rass-Mussbn’s Pills, which
are a guaranteed curer Price, £1 2s. 6d. per course. Sent
unobserved. Address—
Hen* Htiss-Musscn, “ Roselund Villa,”
Opposite Rifle Butts,
MOORE PARK ROAD, SYDNEY.
BROU’S INJECTION.
Htgienio, Infallible & Preservative.
Cures promptly, without additional means, all
recent or chronic discharges of the urinary organs.
Sold in Paris by
.J. FEIRII JES,
(Successor to Brou) Pharmacist, 102 rue Richelieu.
Agent in Sydney;
K. DOUBLET, 165 CLARENCE STREET.
P. O. NICHOLES & Co.,
WHOLESALE
Confectioners & Pastrycooks,
City Buildings:
730 George Street, 730
HAYMABKET.
Steam Works :
617, 619, 621, 539, 541 HARRIS STREET.
Wedding Cakes, &c., Made to Order.
Medical.
A WONDERFUL MEDICINE.
Beecham’s Pills
CiM
&
&
PATENT
PILLS
*>>
e:
5
38
Are universally admitted
to be worth a Guinea
a Box for bilious
and nervous disorders,
such as wind and pain in
the stomach, sick head-
ache, giddiness, fulness
and swelling' after meals,
dizziness, and drowsiness,
cold chills, flushings of
heat, loss of appetite,
shortness of breath, cos-
tiveness, scurvy, blotches
on the skin, disturbed
sleep, frightful dreams,
and all nervous and trem-
bling sensations, &c. The
first dose will give relief
in twenty minutes. E<’ery
sufferer is earnestly invited to try one box erf these
tills, and they will be acknowledged to be
Worth a Guinea a Box.
For females of all ages these Pills are invaluable,
as a few doses of them carry off all humors, and
bring about all that is required. No female should
be without them. There is no medicine to be found
equal to BEECH AM’S PILLS for removing any
obstruction or irregularity of the system. If taken ac-
cording to the directions given with each box they will
soon restore females of all ages to sound and robust
health. This has been proved by thousands who have
tried them, and found the benefits which are ensured by
their use.
For a weak stomach, impaired digestion and all disorders
of the liver, they act like “ MAGIC,” and a few doses will
be found to work wonders upon the most important
organs in the human machine. They strengthen the
Whole muscular system, restore the long-lost complexion,
bring back the keen edge of appetite, and arouse into ac-
tion with the ROSEBUD of health the whole physical
energy of the human frame. These are “FACTS” tes ified
continually by metnbe r s of all classes of society ; and
one of the best guarantees to the nervous and debilitated
is, Beecham's Pills have the largest sale of any patent
medicine in the world.
Beecham’s Magic Cough Pills.
As a remedy for Coughs in general, Asthma, Bronchial
Affections, Hoarseness, Shortness of Breath, Tightness
and Oppression of the Chest, Wheezing, &c., these Pills
stand unrivalled. They are the best ever offered to the
public and -Mil speedily remove that sense of oppression
and difficulty of breathing which nig’htly deprive the
patient of rest. Let any person give Bbeciiam s Cough
Pills a trial and the most violent Cough will in a
short time be removed.
Prepared only and sold wholesale and retail by the pro-
prietor, Thomas Beecham, Chemist, St. Helens, Lancashire,
England, in boxes at Is. IJd. and 2s. 9d. each. Sold by
all Druggists and Patent Medicine Dealers everywhere.
K.B.—Full directions are given with each box.
CONSULT
]f CORE & H OGG
THE EMINENT
SPECIALISTS,
On all Diseases <JTthe Genitourinary Organs
Nervous Diseases, and Private Complaints,
1 OOBBETTS BUILDINGS, corner of George
' and Elizabeth Streets, Brisbane.
OOt.SULTATtONB FREE, PERSONALLY OR BY LETTER.
Box 88G.P.0.) Book sent on receipt of 2d. stamp.
Prof. a. T. SELBY
Is considered to be the most Successful Practi-
tioner in the Australian colonies. All sufferers
should read the Doctor’s most unique work on
Nervous, Private and other Diseases. The
Advice on Marriage is worth its weight in gold.
Send your full address, and we will send (post
free) One Copy. Write to Prof. R. T. SELBY,
Cleveland Street, Surry Hill, SYDNEY.
Hotels.
ntNj
BOW
ill
,
BOWDEN
H
jacrwjoiEsiKrs hotsij,
Elizabeth Stkebt (Near Hunter St ), Sydney.
JOHN C BO**HEN Proprietor
WJiSS-lE'jeSJFt CO - HOTjjJ aLm,
Warruambool, Victoria.
THIS old-established and well-known Fa nily
and (Jommercial Hotel combines all the
requirements of a First-Class Hotel with home
comforts.
It is In full view of the sea and within a short
distance of the picturesque scenery of the Hopkii’s
River, which affords the finest Rod and Fly Fishing
in the colony.
Arrangements made for the Hire of Rowing and
Fishing Boats and Fishing Tackle. Bait, etc.,
supplied, it W Good Shooting in the immediate
neighbourhood.
It is also within Two Minutes’ walk of the Hot
and Cold Sea Water Baths, which are unsur-
passed in the colonies.
I/lvery and iettmg Stables.
Booking Office for Cobb & Co.’s Coaches. Thos.
Cook & Sons’ Hotel Coupons taken.
GEORGE W. CLARE - Proprietor.
Announcements.
The bank of new Zealand.
Sydney Branches :
64 PITT STREET, and 538 GEORGE STREET.
Paid-up Capital £1,125,000
The Bank has Agents in all the principal cities
throughout the United States of America and
Canada, and can offer special facilities for dealing
in Bullion, Bills of Exchange, Commercial and
Travellers’ Letters of Credit.
Drafts issued and Bills collected On most favour-
able terms, at rates which can be ascertained on
application. , , ,
N. F. GIBLIN, Manager.
Head. I Head I Head I
“THE BULLETIN’S”
History of Botany Bay,
By Arthur Gayll.
Profusely Illustrated by The Bulletin’s well-
known Artists,
L. HOPKINS and PHIL MAY.
Price One Slrilling
Per post, Is. 3d.
Wholesale Aqbnts :
Victoria: A. Benjamin, 321 Little Collins-st., Melbourne
Melbourne : Gordon & Gotoh.
Brisbane; J. H. Thompson, Bookseller, George-street.
Adelaide: Neville & Co.
Tasmanian: Fitzgerald Bros., George-street, Launceston.
EPPS’S
GRATEFUL —COMFORTING
COCO A.
_ .
■
MUSICAL.
TJATENT SCALE INDICATOR for Pupils Learning the
P Piano. Price, 3s. 6d. And IMPROVED VAMPING
SYSTEM, without a knowledge of Music, ss. 6d., posted
to the country from Ingham’s, Sydney Arcade.
Country Agents wanted—Stationers.
J. SITTERLIN,
FROM PARIS,
Ladies’ Hairdresser. Wigmaker. Ss Perfumer,
25 SYDNEY ARCADE, SYDNEY.
HISTORICAL AND FANCY HAIRDRESSING A
SPECIALTY.
Manufacturer of All Kinds of Theatrical
and Street Wigs.
Ammon fated Quinine,
The most efficient Hair Lotion, to prevent prema
ture baldness.
Sitterlin’s Vegetable Hair-dye,
The only Hair-dye in the colonies to restore Light
Hair to its natural colour. All shades.
Success Guaranteed.
GEORGE STREET
S YD N E.Y
IMPORTERS OF ALL THE
NEWEST SHAPES.
And at ALBERT STREET, BRISBANE.
w
THE BEST
IN THE WORLD
YMf
f r
/\UCH’S
/ /if 9 <K
/i<fc A/ j
*%>V i
s*/ i
akinc
PO
fcsß
,MANUFACTURED BY M ‘ 4
JjMCS CrtANHON ty/arLoirrS* sT
v , Sold. Uj <tU SaciU'X* g SSo’-eteofif'-o
Business Announcements.
rgIHE THREE GREAT LIGHTSI
The Needles Patent Gas-making Machine;
The Haney Patent Safety Kerosene Lamp ;
AND THE
Hew Era Portable Gas Lamp ,
The Harvey Lamp has been adopted by the
Railway Commissioners for lighting the Sydney
trams. We were awarded the Highest Order of
Merit and Special Mention by experts at the
late Melbourne Exhibition for our lighting
mediums. Over GOOO Harvey Lamps are in use
in this colony, and for all lighting purposes are
giving universal satisfaction. These Lamps can
be seen on one of the North Shore ferry-boats,
and are suitable for all classes of vessels. The
Inventor offers £2OO to anyone producing as good
a Kerosene Burner.
Patentees for Australasia:
jE3i. rr. smith: & 00.,
494 Rent Street South. SYDNEY;
14 Arcade, Adelaide, S.A.; Argent Street, Broken Hill;
Parkside Iron Works, Melbourne.
IW" A BLESSING IN EVERY FAMILY.
HOLLOWAY’S PILLS AND OINTMENT.
There is not a country in the civilised world where
the healing virtues of thes ® grand medicines have not been
recognised by thousands of sufferers. In all the ordinary
ailments of humanity their beneficent action is at once
recoo-nised. Fullest directions are supplied for their use
n every disease. IF YOU SUFFER, TRY THEM. Manu-
factured only at 76 New Oxford-st., London. Pur-
chasers should look to the Label on the Boxes and Pots.
If the address is not 523 Oxford-street, London, they are
spurious.
-THE—
SYDNEY SOAP & CANDLE CO.,
Limited,
MANUFACTURERS OP
Stearine and Paraffin Candles,
HOT & COLD WATER SOAP
Of every Description
Glycerine, Lubricating, Machine, Cloth and
Neatsfoot Oils.
The only Genuine and Original
Magic Cleanser Cold Water Soap*
To be had at all Grocers and Storekeepers.
Upfold’s Tree Pest Exterminator,
Its Effects - are Marvellous!
“ What is Home without a Picture?”
Xj. bbenasconi,
(Late R Smith)
Elite Carver, Gilder, and Picture Frame Maker,
159 Clarence Street Only, SYDNEY
(near Central Coffee Palace).
Plush Work a Speciality. Mounts Cut to any Design.
H. HILDER,
BOOT UPPER MANUFACTURER
IMPORTER OP
ENGLISH AND FOREIGN LEATHER,
Elastic Web, Grindery, Ac.,
Wholesale and Retail Leather Merchant
539 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
—THE—
Art Furnishing Warehouse.
BEARD, WATS OH I CO.,
361 George Street, SYDNEY,
Direct attention to their Magnificent Stock of
Carpets, Floorcloths, Linoleums,
And other Floor Coverings, in the
NEWEST DESIGNS A ARTISTIC COLOURINGS.
Art Decorations, Upholstery Work and
Window Draping a Speciality.
All Orders executed by a Staff of Experienced
Workmen, and Special Attention given to the carry-
ing out of Customers’ wishes with punctuality and
promptitude.
WALTEE HOPE,
General Merchant & Commission Agent,
199 SUSSEX STR E ET, SYDNEY.
Consignments of an produce, live stock, etc.,
; received and realised in the best markets. Account
Sales and Proceeds remitted the day after sale. Orders
executed for all Goods from Sydney at Lowest Wholesale
Prices
Speciality. —Pure-bred and Pedigree Stock of all de-
scriptions Bought or Sold on Commission. All communi-
cations referring to Pure-bred Poultry and Eggs for Setting
to be addressed as usual to WALTER HOPE, Bonnyrigg
Prize Poultry Farm, Liverpool, N.S.W.
SPECIAL NOTICE.—The Sydney Bulletin.
Tasmanian Edition Publishers, FITZ-
GERALD BROS. Subscription (payable strictly
in advance), Six Shillings and Sixpence per quar-
ter, or One Pound per annum.
The Bulletin will be on Sale every Friday at
the Office, George Street, Launceston, or from the
Runners in the street.
PRINCE OF WALES’ HOTEL,
near Opera House, Bourke-st.,East, Melbourne.
This well-known Sporting House is conducted
in First-class Style. Every convenience. Centrally
Situated.


SHEVILL & CO.,
Corner Queen Street and Flinders Lane,
MELBOURNE. '
MERCANTILE auctioneers.
House, Land, and Estate Agents,
-
111
O
&
-iJ
Advances made against shipments of Merchandise
and Colonial Produce.
DaUy Sales held at their Commodious
New Rooms.
OUTDOOR
Furniture & Land Sales Conducted.
Branch
Offices
32 Chapel St., Prahran
2 Albert St., Windsor
Branch
_ -
Offices
*
IMPORTER OP '
''VI IN' IE S, x SPIRITS; x BEEE9 x ETC.
George and Gipps Streets, Sydney.
SPECIALITIES:
John Jameson’s Dunvillb’s Roe’s and Wise’s (old Cork) Whiskies.
rm. ™ . EBS ’ H| MARTtLI ' s and Sazerac s Brandies (5, 10, 15 and 21 years old)
»- The BestSrla VS? w tS ° oT fnu WIIISKIES (** ™<>d), Imported and Bottled by P.R.L.
The Best 1 ort and Sherry IV mes and Champagnes. IW“ All Brands of Colonial Wines The leadino- brands
. ot Bottled Ale and Stout, arriving by monthly steamers. “
Prince of Wales Hotel, 778 L 780 George Street.
TOolesale anil jingle fenltle Departments, anil VS4 tfemme-st., Svilnev.
- . SEND FOR A PRICE LIST.
FIRSThGLASS LADIES’“REFRESHMENT ROOM & LAVATORY,
GIPPS STREET (Opposite A. Hordern & Sons.)
Produce Stores, Gipps St., and Darlinghurst Road.
HEAD OFFICE: GIPPS STREET (Next Prince of Wales Hotel).
BROS,
5
a/
UXTES-W
FURNITURE
WAREHOUSES,
York Street, Wynyard Square, Sydney,
Now supply the General Public as well as the Trade.
10,000 Bedsteads,
From lOs. 6dL. to £35.
r-
P s
:■ '
■ - ?•
rf r .<S% 4
llfiflii
MBS*
t ■■ *••
esmpaOTMP*
MteifiiM
i
AUCTIONEERS.* ESTATE ACEMTS
EOT
•aoNwffl □
UiSfl » «la
BATLEE & 0 0.,
General Auctioneers and Estate Agents, .
335 Collins Street, Melbourne, and 14 Clucpej
Street, South Yarra.
Free Prescriptions
Are to be found in the “Light and In fe, 1
for the Speedy Cure of Nervous Debility and
Kindred Diseases, &c. A copy of this book will
be sent Free, sealed, for Six Penny Stamps.
Address —
S. WARD Sc CO., SYDNEY PHARMACY,
70 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
tr
FRY’S MALTED COCOA
llnuungton Mill
hnotvl(s i’umps.
PARKE & LACY GO.,
MINING & HYDRAULIC ENGINEERS
AND
GENERAL MACHINERY MERCHANTS,
&c., &c., &c.
187 & 189 Clarence Street,
SYDNEY, 3XT.S.W.
And SAN FRANCISCO, CALIFORNIA.
Koeli Breakers*
Wcftli'iiglioiiae Enaiiicg.
RTG Y
ES f IjIMITKD,
Hay St., Haymarket, Sydney,
ENGINES,
2 to 50 11. p.
BOILERS,
1 to 35 11. p.
STEAM PUMPS
For all purposes.
OflM PUMPS,
2" to 40" discharge.
HAND PUMPS.
Saw Benches.
LatliGS.
mi m mm
Ac., Ac.
*
>SK
(aUlnj
Hauling Engines.
Battery Engines.
Saw-mill Engines.
FLO-MIIL MINES.
engines
for
Electric Lighting.
Vertical Boilers.
Multitubular Boilers,
< OICMsil noil,KßB.
&0., &o.
Wo invito al those requiring Machinery of any kind for any purpos*. .argo or small, to write for particulars and prices. From the extent of our stock we are , . .
\i si tors, whether buyers or nt, an-always welcome to inspect the magnificent display in our new mul Slmtr;,r oral,y ftW ° ‘° piv °
129 ’ 131 » 133 & X 35 HAY STREET, HAYMARKE Ti
sydn
