

ITKEN’B ALE.
■ *-- -r‘ - '
66
DICKENS ” WHISKY,
LIFE BUOY BRAND.
THE BEST 11ST THE WEAHHET.
—•- —~— • — —— .
A>D
USED BY THE LATE CHARLES DICKENS,
SIJFPTIED TO THE I'ItIXITPAL Hlßs IN SV»ii:T.
Harrison
Attwo o <3., 251 George-st., Sydney.
Sole Jlgejats for Soxi/feli Wales.
f
Street, S3riDlxrs“Z".
UNRIVALLED ACCOMMODATION.
f
NEW YORK LIFE INSURANCE CO
LIFE ASSURANCE ONLY. PURELY
STATEMENT FOR YEAR ENDING 31st DECEMBER, 1889.
Income for year ending 1889 ... ...
- Amount New Business during 1889
Accumulated Funds 31st December, 1889...
Surplus by the New York State Standard
Total Amount Paid to Living Members during last 45 years, in Endowments,
Dividends, &c.
Paid to Representatives of Deceased Members
Amount of Interest received on Investments
MUTUAL.
£6, 000,672 1 3
31,094,463 0 0
21,615,967 5 5
3,209,876 10 10
16,317,633 0 0
10,296,348 0 0
10,878,708 0 0
Incontestable Non-Porfeiting Free Tontine Policies
Secures VALUABLE INVESTMENT FEATURES, in combination with INSURANCE at LOW COST. Guaranteed
options at the end of Tontine period.
The POLICIES, as now issued, are notably free from restrictions as to Occupation, Residence and Travel • are
INCONTESTABLE after Two Years, except in case of fraud. '
CLAIMS are payable in the colonies at the nearest Branch Office, in sterling, and all Disputed Claims (in case any
should arise) in Australia are to be decided by Australian Courts. J
Chief Offices, Department of Australasia: ... BOND STREET CHAMBERS, SYDNEY.
JOSIAH HOWELL, General Manager.
0 ososc? s o > a
x
a
%
*
a
0
a
x
0
a
gfc
a
cvs
£
&
o
/
V
o
4
V.
5K
X
r*
✓
X
rs^X^X^X^X^X^X^X>>
Y **Vooo r~ r * b * /^>W
Grand Novelty! Grand Novelty!
FOR MARKING
LINEN, PAPER, ENVELOPES, &c.
Special Monograms.
New System, more perfect than the Rubber. New
Invention. Prizes from the New Orleans (U.S.) and
Melbourne Exhibitions. Prices.—Medium Monourrams,
with box and bottle of Indelible Ink for marking Linen
Paper, Collars, Cuffs, and Handkerchiefs, Price 4/- in
Sydney, 4/6 in New South Wales, 6/- in other Colonies.
L. Shrager, 19 Macqnarie-Place, Op. Exchange.
J. & C. HOWARD.
Howard’s Colonist 2-Furrow l»iggin<
Plough.—(B.Z.O.L)
Howard’s Single-Furrow Digging
Plough.—(O.L.)
Tlie Plough, of the Times!
PLOUGHING AND HARROWING IN ONE ACT. *
Share Points only cost 6d., and are Reversible.
Chaff-Cutters, Horse Gears and every kind of Agricultural Implements
ITT STOCK.
Enquirers-please quote this paper.
280£ PITT STREET, SYDNEY
(Corner of Pitt and Bathdrst Streets).
-TZEEIE-
LONDON & SYDNEY TEA COMPANY,
•SfcOO Kent Street, SYDNEY.
* "r-
M
Hi
m.
a//*
cs
\c
zH.
’^Si^SgS^P'^
OUR BLENDER AT WORK ON INDIA AND CHINA.
HIGH-CLASS TEAS,
Packed in 201 b. and 401 b. Packages,
At Is. 6d., Is. 9d. and 2s. per lib.
New Customers please enclose Remittance or
Reference.
Speciality; A Single Package at Wholesale Price.
The Bulletin
Vol. 11—No. 545. J
[Saturday, July 26, 1890.


TO BA
Llf
DIXSOWSONS
Customs Returns.
American Leaf,
Dizson and Sons consumed in 1888, 52,592 lbs,
more, and in 1889 (over 44 tons) 98,939 lbs. more
American Leaf than all the rest of New South
Wales put together.
’S TOBACCOS having the largesl
■ale of any in Australia are—
OU£
'p
*
a
o
o
☆:
C 5
V
[SIR ROGER!
Dr. RIDGE’S
FOOD
FOE INFANTS ahd INVALIDS
“This is the MOST PERFECT FOOD
we have examined.”— Chas. H. Piesse,
M.R.0.5., F.C.S., &c, Wm. Johnstone
Ph.D., F.C.S., &c., Public Analysts,
OS. BIDOE’S ROYAL FOOD MILLS,
LONDON, ENGLAND.
ONT
FROM
Neuralgia,
Nervousness,
Headaches,
Biliousness,
wasting Disease, Debility, Ao., &Q>,
When you can I>© Cured
BY OBIKG
EARNERS
TONIC.
CELEBRATED
Price, 2s. 6d. and 55.; Post, Is
Extra.
CAINS and Co., Chemists,
78 KIKQ ST., SYDNEY.
— u.
Vw Sale by all Chemists.
m. w. a Co.
/ s
ppg^aa
a —
Ssii
AUCTIONEERS* ESTATE AGENT
aKBiUCI* tisraja
<ss*
BATI.EE & CO.,
General Auctioneers and Estate Agents,
996 Collins Street, Melbourne, and 14 Chapei
Street, South Yarra.
r ATKINSON’S
ENGLISH PERFUMERY
surpasses all others for its natural
fragrance,
Atkinson’s Celebrated
EAU DE COLOGNE
Is Unequalled for its Strength and
Delightful Fragrance. It far sur- 1
passes the numerous compounds sold
under the same name.
Of oil Dealer! (ind of the Manufacturer!—
J. & E. ATKINSON,
24, OLD BOND STREET, LONDON.
.Trade Mark—“White Rose” on “Golden
Pk Lyre,’ ’ with Address in full.
GOLDEN SHA NT Y.
PRICE : ONE SHILLING.
HUNGARIAN
NATURAL APERIENT WAim
For Constipation, Indite t
un
UA
Stomach & Liver Complaints
OF ALL CHEMISTS IN AUSTRALASIA’
The Natural Mineral Waters of
(STATE
ƒ
SPRINGS.)
GRANDE-GRILLE.—For Affections of thi
Liver, Biliary Organs, &c*
CELBSTIHS.—For the Kidneys, Gravel, Goat
Rheumatism, Diabetes, &o.
HOPITAL.—For Stomach Complaints,
HAUTERITE. —An excellent Table Watbx*
OF ALL CHEMISTS IN AUSTRALASIA.
NEVER TRAVEL WITHOUT IT.
WANTED IN EVEEY HOUSE.
m
-£W,
EFFECTUALLY DESTROYS,
All NOXIOUS INSECTS.,
| FLEAS. FLIES. BEETLES MOSQUITOES,
AND IS
AT THE SAME TIME QUITE'
HARMLESS TO BIRDS DOGS.
'FOWLS OR OTH ER
ANIMALS
\i
* OV,<50 V ,<5
- "A*
£ <o*
' v£- v .<
.XV <• > O' > • \
SOLD!
rN Ti"M5 j
JP WARD Si
itMisrs
AND STOREKEEPERS
WHOUS<Ut
FELTON-GRIMWADEI>>C < ?i
-MELBOURNE
WANTED IN EVERY HOUSE.
Ask for KEUSE’S INSECTICIDE, and Beware
of the Numerous Imitations.
Angjo Scandinavian
Cold Medal
Condensed
Milk.
Acknowledged
The Best
THOMAS M'GREERY;
MEDICAL HERBALIST,
83 Ozford Street, i doors above Riley Street.
Private Diseases of Both Sexes a Speciality.
Consultations Gratis. Charges very Moderate.
A Trial Solicited.
A SPEEDY CURE GUARANTEED.
G, GOEETZ,
Stock and Share Broker,
BRISBANE.
Member of the Brisbane Stock Exchange.
f
A
Purshasers should see that the Label on every bottle of the original
WORCESTERSHIRE SAUCE
bears the Signature, thus
Cl.
Ask for Lea & Perrins’ Sauce, and see Name on Wrapper, Label, Bottle and Stopper.
Wholesale and for Export by the Proprietors, Worcester; Crosse <f- Blackwell, London, §c.,
and by Grocers and Oilmen throughout the World.
NOW READY. —To be had from all News-Agents and Booksellers.
CrOLIDEIDT SH-A.ISTT'y
Australian Sketches in Prose and Verse,
By “BULLETIN” Writers
Size, Demy Octavo—with Handsome Coloured Illustrated Cover.
Price - ONE SHILLING; per Post, Is.
-33
3d.


Medical.
WHEN THE BLOOD is thin of impur#
every organ and fibre of the body becomes en<
feebled and loss capable of resisting prevailing
diseases. Among the indications of depraved
blood are boils, carbuncles, pimples, eruptions,
sore eyes, ulcers, tumors, and glandular swell,
ings. To strike at the root of these evils,
cleanse the blood with Ayer’s Sarsaparilla.
Tliis medicine has maintained its world-wide
reputation, for nearly half a century, as the
Standard Biood-Purifier.
It is a highly-concentrated extract of the most
powerful vegetable alteratives and tonics. The
most effective remedy for scrofula, it is equally
beneficial in gout, rheumatism, catarrh, and
dyspepsia, also in liver and kidney com-
plaints. A medicine for men, women,.
and children. Be sure and ask for
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla
PREPARED BY
Dr. J. C. AYER & CO., Lowell, Mass., U. S. A.
Sold by Druggists and Medicine Vendors.
ƒ
WHO IS
V - ■ V-
WEAK
f
Nervous & Debilitated
Who in his youth has trifled away his vigour of body,
mind, and manhood, should consult PROFESSOR
CARL STINEWAY, the Eminent Specialist,
in diseases of the Genito-Urinary Organs, Who is
still treating with the greatest skill and success all
Private, Nervous and Chronic Diseases.
Professor STINEWAY’S success, which has
become so firmly established throughout Australasia,
is based upon the facts : —ist. That every case treated,
even in its most remote effects, is specially studied,
thus starting aright. 2nd. The Medicines used
exactly adapted to suit the case, and are compounded
from the purest, freshest, and refined ingredients,
thus promptly producing results without overdosing
or injury.
I seek eases where all else has failed.
Young and middle-aged men and others, who
suffer from Nervous and Physical Debility,
Exhausted Vitality, Premature Decline, etc.,
can recover the same degree of health, strength,
and energy experienced in former years, by
consulting (in person or by letter, which is
free), Professor STINEWAY, who has re-
stored thousands of sufferers to vigorous man-
hood after all other treatment had failed. It
makes no difference what you have taken, or
who has failed to cure you. Cases that I accept
for treatment are quickly and permanently
cured,
DO ANY OF THE FOLLOWING SYMPTOMS,
OR CLASS OF SYMPTOMS MEET YOUR
DISEASED CONDITION : —Are you a sufferer
from bad health in any of its many forms, consequent
on a lingering Nervous, Chronic, or Functional
Disease ? Do you feel nervous, debilitated, fretful,
timid, and lack the power of will and action ?
Are you subject to loss of memory; have spells of
fainting; fullness of blood in the head; feel listless,
moping, unfit for business or pleasure, and subject to
tits of melancholy ? Are your kidneys, stomach,
urinary organs, liver, or blood in a disordered con-
dition ? Do you suffer from Rheumatism, Neuralgia,
or other aches and pains ? Are you timid, nervous,
and forgetful with your mind continually dwelling on
die subject? Have you lost confidence in yourself,
and energy for business pursuits ? Are you subject
:o restless nights, broken sleep, dreams, palpitation
af the heart, bashfulncss, confusion of ideas, aversion
10 society, dizziness in the head, dimness of sight,
pimples on the face and back, and other desponding
symptoms? If you are afflicted, why further neglect
your health or future happiness, when by a single con-
sultation (which costs nothing) you can be placed on
the way to health, strength, and vigour?
All correspondence held sacred. A speedy
and perfect life cure is guaranteed in all cases
I undertake, where doubt exists the sufferer is
frankly informed.
Persons living at a distance who desire
treatment without delay can, by forwarding a
full description of their case and £l, receive
by return of post the medicines required.
Do not despair, even though all others have
failed m your case. No matter what your
complaint may be, call or write—l will cure
you. If you are ill, do not delay !My vast
experience enables me to guarantee a positive
cure m all cases undertaken. CONSUL-
TATIOAS FREE. Medicines sent secure
from observation to any part of Australasia.
“ From Bondage to Freedom,” my
latest work on Private, Nervous and
Chronic Diseases, should be read by
every man; nearly one hundred
pages. By post, two stamps.
A written guarantee given in all
eases undertaken, and no promises
made that age, integrity, and long
experience do not justify.
Send for treatise “From Bondage
to Freedom.”
Address: Professor CARL STINEWAT,
23 Elizabeth St., Sydney, H.S.W.
Offices and Parlors—Rooms 2,3, 4 & 5.
Consulting Room — 6.
Laboratory & Drug Warehouse—
Hunter Street.
?*ometliirLg KTew.
NAME neatly printed on Forty (40) Beautiful
X Embossed VISITING CARDS, comprising Floral
Landscape, Sea View, Bird, &c. No two alike. ALL
I'OR ONE SHILLING in Stamps, postage paid. Agents
wanted. Samples free. Address—
Austral Card and Novelty Co„
’4 IKxtbii SiiiKKT, SYDNEY.
Business Announcements.
r
r
u
Tronmonce.Rs ;
|jRONMf£
c-n
r: 1
G 3
a
czs
f.-,.
I
ROBERTS &
-WHOLESALE-
Ironmongers* Importers* Iron and Machinery Merchants*
HAY AND ENGINE STREETS SYDNEY,
Head Office: 85 Graoeclmrcli Street, London, E.C.
IMPORTERS OF — *\
Railway Sc Bridge Contractors’
Plumbers’
Squatters'
Requirements
IN
Great Variety.
IMPORTERS OF
Engineers' and Blacksmiths’
Conchbuilders'
Mining
AGENTS FOB:
Gas Engines —The best and cheapest yet made. Automatic self-governing’, thus saving cost of gas.
Bradaock’s Water and Gas Meters and Gas Lamps, Reading Iron Works Universal (Split) Pulley Wheels.
Howe’s Platform and Counter Weighing Machines and Weighbridges.
ƒ
(tuning
>T
>
£
KJUNffjg
BHUllMiift
7.
2
if
C
IjltlHflTO' A
w
\
-§
THE
(V
'V
68
CLARENCE
SYDNEY.
AGENTS
m New South Wales,
TRIUMPH
ofThe Good Spirit over Bad.
Used in hospitals throughout the world in preference to the
best French Brandy. TRY IT.
PRINCE OF WALES’ HOTEL,
St- Kild.a, Victoria.
Within Five Minutes from STATION, and One Minute from ESPLANADE and BATHS.
MRS. KONG MENG ... ... ... Proprietress.
It
BUGGIES, CARRIAGES,
WAGGONS,
HARNESS, etc.
Machinery of all kinds.
WILLIAM FLEMING,
22 & 24 Clarence Street,
SYDNEY;
and at 2 St. James’ Building's,
MELBOUBNF.
Business Announcements.
MASON BROTHERS,
LIMITED.
263 to 269 KENT STREET,
SYDNEY,
Have always in Stock for Sale to the
Trade and Wholesale Buyers Only,
Ironmongery* »» (|
GENERAL HARDWARE
Class, China ami
earthenwar e.
WINES, BEERS & SPIRITS,
AND GENERAL
BULK MERCHANDISE.
Agents for
JOHN WALKER and SONS
Old Highland Whisky.
TiUCIEN FOUCAULD & CO.’S
Old Brandies.
J. T. GAYEN’S,
Schnapps and Geneva.
A. MELVIN and SONS’
Edinburgh Pale Ale.
ft: j fui
■;!
m
-
SEND TO
iESZIESiDJ'IO.'Sr HSIEISrG-,
SCENIC AND PORTRAIT PHOTOGRAPHER,
316 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
FOR—
Catalogue of the most Complete Scries of Vietvs to
he obtained in Australia.
Jenolan Caves, Hawkesbury and Nepean Rivers,
Bine Mountains, Harbour and Coast Views,
Victorian and New Zealand Views.
Groups of Australian Aboriginals and South Sea
Island Natives, &c., &c.
G. H, SMITH & SON,
MANUFACTURERS & IMPORTERS OF
ppipp PND CPPg,
302 George Street, Sydney,
8 Doors South of Hunter Street.
A Large Assort
went of English and
French Goods, from
the best Makers to
choose from.
Every description
of HATS and CAPS
made to Order.
g mm
Medical.
S. C '°'CTu^
T O YOUITG nvs: E 3XT.
DR. FLETCHER’S
TREATISE ON NERVOUS DISEASES, THEIR CAUSE,
SYMPTOMS, TREATMENT, AND CURE.
r PHE directions contained in this little treatise will be
1 found of immense benefit to the sufferer ; and if these
directions are observed during the early stages of Nervous
or Sexual Debility, A T o Medicine s will he required , as, by
observing the directions given, the patient can Cure llim-
self.
This admirable little treatise is specially written to
show a method of counteracting the evil effects of indis-
cretions in early life—Overwork, irregularity in eating or
drinking, &c. It is the result of much study and long
and successful experience in the treatment of diseases,
and contains a fund of useful information to every suf-
ferer _ from the following complaints, viz.: —Nervous
Debility, Dizziness, Specks before the Eyes, Pains in the
Back, Defective Memory, Loss of Will Power, Loss of
Energy, Spermatorrhoea, Bashfulness, Discontentedness,
Constipation, Liver and Kidney Derangements, Atrophy,
Impotence, Impure Blood, Foul Taste in Mouth, Palpita-
tion of Heart, Wakefulness, Despondency, Excessive Ner-
vousness, Inability to Marry, Premature Decay, and other
symptoms experienced by nervous sufferers.
All Should Send for this Little Treatise.
If the complaint is of long standing and requires
medicine, Dr. Fletcher will GUARANTEE TO CURE
ANY CASE OF NERVOUS or SEXUAL DEBILITY
with ONE COURSE OF MEDICINES LASTING FIVE
WEEKS, and will send with medicines A WRITTEN
GUARANTEE to cure same or return the monies paid.
Ur. Fletcher’s treatment is both simple and effective,
and within the reach of the poorest. It is unlike anv
other, and with it he has cured over 25,000 patients, and
invites patients to investif/ate his statements by verifying
the testimonials published in his treatise. The treatise
will he forwarded on receipt of two stamps to cover
postage.
CONSULTATION BY LETTER, FREE.
Address in first instance—
DR. H. EWART FLETCHER
Box 1417, G.P.O.
Sydney, N;S.W.
Private address—Clonmel House, Waverley, Sydney.
Remember, all cases undertaken, guaranteed, and t
signed agreement given, which provides that NO COST
be incurred by the patient if a cure is not effected.
VARICOCELE RADICALLY CURED WITHOUT
OPERATION.
Mention this Paper.
tfT IN THE PRESS,
“.A. GOLDEIJ SHANTY/’
By “BULLETIN” WRITERS.


A pleasantly-situated Property, thoroughly cleared, close to Liverpool Station. Torrens’ Title. £1 deposit; 10s. per month.
-A.. W. STEPHEIT, 28 CASTLEBEAGrH STIRdEZET, SATIDISnEAr..
“ A CroMeiTßliantY.” A Selection from the brightest of the. original literary matter which has made The Bulletin world-famous. Price, Is. : posted, 3d. extra.
m
m
s 2
m
V'
mm
T. JR BINSON <Sc, OO.* Limited
*
Machinery and Implement Manufacturers and Importers.
T. R. and Co.’s Improved STEEL EARTH SCOOPS, on Wheels or Skid.
T. R. AND Co.’s DAM-SINKING or ROAD-MAKING PLOUGHS, all
sizes.
T. R. AND Co.’s New DRAIN DORMERS.
T. R. and Co.’s “ Solway ” Patent TUMBLE-OVER BOX 'WOOL-
PRESS —the Cheapest and Best yet made.
T. R. and Co.’s STEAM, HORSE or HANDPOWER WOOL-PRESSES.
T. R. and Co.’s HARVESTING MACHINERY of every description.
T. R. and Co., Ltd., are SOLE AGENTS for the
New Light Steel “ Brantford ” Reaper and Binder.
Address = 407 , & -3:039 ESllsssatoetla. street, MESLBOURKTE.
ASSETTER
AND
C 9
LIMITED
TESTIMONIAL.—“FairfieId. Dear Sir, —I beg to acknowledge having received per coach from Tenterfleld one ‘Magic’ Carbine and 2CO cartridges in good order and condition. lam very much pleased with lire carbine ;it is
undoubtedly the most perfect firearm ever manufactured. I beg to remain, yours faithfully, John Watt, Lance Sergeant.”
SOLE AGENTS for the “MAGIC” REPEATING RIFLES.
WRITE FOR
NEW CATALOGUE.
(Sent FKEK by post.)
LAWN TENNIS
RACQUETS.
Ayres’ “Central Strung,”
27/G each.
Ayres’Champion,” 22 G
each.
•
Ayres’ Cedar Handle Su-
perior Racquets, 19/-
eaoh.
Fortnam's Improved
Champion, 1G G each.
Fortnam’s Champion, 15/-
each.
Fortnam V c heaper quality,
10 - each.
RACQUET PRESSES, 2/6 each.
Ligb-t, and Sure.
ROUND -Length of barrel 26in., 15 shots, 44 cal., weight 641 b, price, 87/6.
. OCTAGON-,, „ „ „ „ 711 b, „ 90/-
The performance of this rifle is guaranteed only when “Magic” ammunition
is used. A supply always on hand to 38 and 44 cal., price Bs. per 100.
“MAGIC" & “DAISY"
REPEATING RIFLES
AND CARBINES
—ARE —
The Best in the World*
JUST LANDED, A LARGE SHIPMENT OF
Lawn Tennis Racquets, Balls, Cavendish Poles and Nets,
TENNIS BALLS.
Ayres’ : Regulation, Covered, Undersewn Champion Balls
Grey India-rubber Uncovered Balls—
Best Quality ... ... ' ... - ... ...
Second Quality
Terra-cotta Balls ... ... \
A 1 Crown Regulation, Champion, Undersewn, Covered Balls
best in the world
I*s/0 per Dozen.
7/0 per Dozen.
0/0 per Dozen.
10/0 per Dozen.
11/0 per Dozen.
Presses, Tapes, &c., &c.
THE CANTON COURT MARKER, Price 82/0.
INDIA-RUBBER RACQUET HANDLE COVERS ... I/O each.
BOOK OF RULES, 1/0 each.
m=
wi-ite f Q i- New Illustrated. Sports & Game Catalogue
TENNIS POLES and NETS.
“ Cavendish ” Patent Poles, with Wire-bound
Nets and Hope’s Patent Adjuster, 75/- set.
TENNIS POLES ONLY.
“Champion,” Brass Ferrule, Turned Tops,
10/(1 Pair.
TENNIS NETS.
“ Cavendish ” Wire-bound Nets, 27/0 & 22/0 each.
Tanned Nets, 12/0 each.
CITY MUTUAL FIRE INSURANCE
COMPANY, Limited.
Estahlished 1877.
Subscribed Capital £150.000.
Head Offices removed to
95 PITT STREET, SYDNEY-
(!, doors below Hunter Street.)
A Cash Boxes of 10 per cent, is paid to Policyholders
_on renewals every year. Insurances covering Loss by Fire,
Lightning or Gas Explosion at Lowest Rates,
Note the Address—
NEW OFFICES, 95 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
(4 doors below Hunter Street.)
N.B.—The Bonus paid is equal to that paid by any
Fire Company in Sydney.
ROBERT KERR, Manager.
Artoor Vitas,
The. Great Life Remedy tfc Tonic Invigorator,
IS the Best and Only Medicine which shows a
good result from the moment yon take the
first dose. It acts on the blood like a charm, and
toms the internal secretions to healthy action,
restores strength to the stomach, and enables it to
perform its functions ; and for regulating the liver
and kidneys it has no equal. Price —Is. per
package. Also the Great Cure for Catarrh and
Influenza —the Arbor Vitro Oil, 2s. fid. per
bottle. Sold by all Storekeepers and Druggists.
Sole Agents for New South Wales—
Dan Sntlrerlarui Co.
Wholesale and Retail Tobacconists,
84 King Street, Newtown, SYDNEY.
First Prize:
MELBOURNE EXHIBITION.
Ewing’s Indelible
marking Ink.
Aitrovbd axj) Patronised hv Vice-Royalty and
the Elite of the Australasias Colonies.
Report of the Government Analytical Chemist . ‘I have examined Ewing’s Indelible Markin# Ink,
for marking linen, etc. It is very good, the writing done with it-resisting all attempts to wash out.
It may be well recommended.—Signed, Wm. 'Johnston.”'
All Wholesale and Retail Chemists, Stationers, Drapers. In cases, Is. Proprietor, T. A. Ewing -
Chemist (by appointment) to His Excellency, Brunswick-street, Eitzroy, MELBOURNE.
-THE—
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL
FIRE
Insurance Society.
Established ... ... 1872,
Bonuses
OF
20 per cent. Paid Annually
since 1873.
1 p
p-
Hi
I
Head Office
-THE
Oldest Mutual Fire Office
in Australia.
Claims promptly and liberally
settled. Fifteen days’grace
allowed for Renewal of Policies.
Lowest Current Rates charged.
lion. George Thornton, M.L.C.,
Chairman.
Head Office:
Corner Pitt & King Streets,
SYDNEY.
Walter Church ... Manager.
READ THIS
Western Australia is a much richer colony than is
generally supposed as regards minerals, agriculture and
pastorahsm.—Sir Samuel Griffith.
Professor Brown, of Victoria, who made a thorough
examination of the south-western portion of Western
Australia, states that not the other colonies only, but
even the people of Western Australia evidently do not
know how much there is waiting for development. He
saw thousands of acres in contiguous blocks of fine choco-
late lands, light clay loams, and peaty soils. Ho thinks
the important features of the district are its grand .climate
and regular rainfall.
“ History repeats itself,” and as surely as Sydney and
Melbourne have made lightning-like progress, so will
PERTH,'
the Capital of West Australia.
TEN POUND BUILDING SITES
at PERTH, WESTERN AUSTRALIA.
Large Allotments, Splendid Position, Good Land.
Only £1 deposit, easy terms ; discount for cash. Buyers
of five lots receive a free deed. Title (Torrens’s) guaran-
teed to be indisputable.
Also, CITY LOTS, from £33 each,
on similarly easy terms.
Marked plans and pamphlets posted to any address on
application to'
THE INTERCOLONIAL INVESTMENT
COMPANY, Limited;
9G Bathurst-street, Sydney,
W. J. DOUGLAS, Manager.
Sent Post Free Everywhere.
(lAIIKAIvI) & HAMILTON, Auctioneers
70 Pitt Street, SYDNEY


The Bulletin
Vol. 11—STo. 545,
SATURDAY, JULY 26, 1890.
Price, 63.
? A 1
V
HE WOULDN’T PE NASTY.
“There being no objection to the preamble of the Bill, the Mayor, before putting it to the vote, said he was personally opposed to railways and tramways being taken out of the
hands of the Government and placed in the power of private people, but the city had received so very little consideration or remuneration from the Government for the use of its
streets, and the aldermen had so carefully considered the measure, that if they obtained the consent of the people he would have no objection to the adoption of a Bill of that
character.” — Mayor Burdekin on the Sydney Tramway Bill.
THE WHICH, BEING INTERPRETED
“Well, boys I don't believe in selling the trams, but the sale would't kill me and I don't intend to worry to death about it,"


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
Australia for the Australians,”
Proprietors : BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO.,
Limited.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
AT 24 PITT-STREKT, SYDNEY, NEW SOUTH WALKS.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(payable in advance, only).
Per Annum ... P.l 0 0
Half-yearly 0 IS 6
Quarterly .„ ... ... 06 0
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to H addressed to William Macleod, Managing Director.
Literary Communications to be addressed to J. F.
Archibald.
The Editor will carefully read and acknowledge in Ine
“ Correspondence ” column all contributions submitted —
whether in the form of Political, Social, or other Articles,
Verse, Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing with A ns-
tralian subjects, and'not exceeding two columns in
length, or say 3000 words, are specially acceptable),
Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper-Clippings. All
communications will be regarded as strictly confidential.
“ The. Bulletin” will return all unavailable MBS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we
desire those sending MS'S, to distinctly understand that
we are not responsible for the preservation or transmission
of such MBS,
NOTICE.
By sending direct loThe Bulletin Office Twenty Shillings
sterling—which you may pay by Post Office Order , One
Pound Note, or Stamps of any Australian colony —you.
can have The Bulletin posted regularly to you every week
for a year.
This offer is not open to residents of Sydney. In that
city The Bulletin is not delivered by mail, hut is entirely
in the hands of our earners, with whom we do not wish
to interfere.
T^e'^xxSelzoi.
SATURDAY. JULY 26, 1890.
Will the Chinese Overrun the World?
We had at first proposed the question in a
different form, namely, “ Will the Chinese
conquer the world ?” On reflection, we sub-
stitute the heading as it now stands, because
it permits < f broader consideration. A race
may overrun the world, without waging war
upon it, just as effectually as though it re-
duced ail the peoples to subjection by force
of arms. Probably no European of this
generation has enjoyed opportunities for
basing an opinion relative to this question
equal to those which fell to the lot of the
late General Gordon — Chinese Gordon, as
he was styled—during the major portion of
his career. Mr. W. T. Stead affirms that
Gordon stated to him his conviction that
the Chinese are destined to overrun the whole
world. Whether Emin Pasha had been in-
doctrinated by < Job don with this belief ap-
pears doubtful, but it is clear that Gordon
had at least imbued his lieutenant with an
exalted appreciation of the efficiency of the
Chinese as agents of civilisation. Emin,
widely-travelled ( hicntalist as he is, has never
Sersonally had extended experience of the
hinese. It must therefore, in all reason-
able probability, be ascribed to his African
association with Gordon that his plan of
founding a civilised community in the
equatorial regions of Africa is based upon
the subjection of the negro by means
of a Chinese immigration under Ger-
man auspices and control. This project
can scarcely be reconciled with a par-
ticipation in Gordon’s belief as to
the destined domination of the globe
by the Chinese. Emin is a faithful Teuton
and Mould scarcely promote a migration
which would tend towards the ruin of his
own race by facilitating the realisation of
Gordon’s prophesy. Were the Mongolians
to break bounds and diffuse their myriads
over the face of the globe, it would materi-
ally assist the realisation of an universal
dominion were an acclimatised colony of
their countrymen established in the heart of
Africa ready to help them in that continent
from within. Moreover, one such experi-
ment as Emin has conceived would, if suc-
cessfully accomplished, have a strong ten-
dency to lead to other migrations, perhaps
not under German auguries, but spontaneous
or organised by the rulers of the Chinese
Empire. In order to realise the significance
which such a lodgment of Chinese might
assume, it is merely requisite to recall to
mind a peculiar suggestion which but a short
time ago created'some transient-emotion in-
Australia. A statement found currency that
the German Government contemplated ap-
propriating Queensland at the first fitting
opportunity. A material item in their cal-
culations to that end was alleged to be the
presence in that 'AustraHan state of a con-
siderable colony of German settlers. These
are ex-soldiers for the most part, as every
Gorman of a certain age must bo, in conse-
quence of the obligation, in the Father-
land, of universal military service. Aug-
mentation of the numbers already settled
in Queensland could be quietly and
steadily effected without exciting attention
or opposition, and when the hour for action
arrived, an expeditionary force would find an
army of co-nationalists ready to seize the
weapons and equipments brought for their
use—an army of which moreover the in-
dividual members would furnish guides
familiar with every nook of the territory,
with every road, every track, every position,
and with the local conditions, observance of
which might be essential to impart the fullest
efficiency to an invading force of new-chums.
This was prob ably a baseless rumour, or ait
least the echo of some abstract theorisings
which never really assumed the solidity of a
set purpose. It serves, however, to illus-
trate one of the possibilities of the future,
with respect to the chances of the world
being hereafter subjected to a new deluge—
a submergence of all Caucasian civilisation
under a flood of Chinese.
* # #
The Mongolian is the sole race respecting
which such a conception of destiny could be
formed. The Caucasian is divided into a
score of nationalities each antipathetic to
the other, controlled by governments
mutually antagonistic, actuated by powerful
repulsions, dispersed over the face of the
earth, and at present incapable of any com-
bination for their common interest. The
Mongolians, on the contrary, have the bulk
of their race concentrated in one compara-
tively compact territory, controlled by a
single and despotic ruler. For 2000 years
they have been repairing the depletion
in their numbers consequent upon a
colossal migration which at that time
occurred. Their energies have been com-
pressed within the narrow limits of their
native land, while the Caucasians have been
diffusing their peoples in vast colonisations
of regions previously thinly peopled, or
occupied only by weak and barbarous races,
or by multitudinous but effete relics of
expiring civilisations such as the Aztec. The
universal inspiration of movement has, how-
ever, of late years affected in some degree,
at least, the fringes of the Chinese popula-
tion. The Malayan Archipelago and the
auriferous regions of Western America and
of Australia have felt their presence. In
small communities, such as the Friendly
Islands, their numbers press upon the
original peoples, and threaten to displace
them. The United States have formally
repelled these emigrants, and our own thin
populations have ventured to enact prohibi-
tive legislation. These proceedings, while
operating as a temporary check, appear, from
many indications, to have been effectual in
an adverse direction. They have aroused
the attention of the Chinese Government,
hitherto almost unconscious of the outward
movement of infinitesimal fractions of its
subjects, to tlie evidences of pressure upon
the home space, and to the existence of
delectable regions without. They have
further affronted the haughty spirit of high
and mighty rulers who have been accustomed
to regard all the outer world as constituted
of tributary kingdoms and inferior peoples.
It is but recently that a Chinese ambassador
conveyed to the Court of St. James a per-
emptory demand from his sovereign, that to
the Chinese people should be extended the
same privileges, throughout the British
dominions, as are extended to the subjects
of any other foreign potentate.
# # #
It is not, however, our design to consider
too minutely the possible consequences of
particular instances of contact. The full
significance of the probabilities which impend
in the future may, we conceive, he best appre-
ciated by considerations of a broader kind. By
wide generalisation certain deductions become
apparent. The estimated population of the
world is at the present time, in round num-
bers, 1,45(1,000,000. The inhabitants of the
Chinese Empire make up no less than
450,000,000 of that total. Racial vanity
has of late years induced various speculative
writers to venture the prediction that at a
future time not exceedingly remote, English-
speaking people will dominate the earth. On
how poor a basis this presumption rests can
be perceived Ivy a simple comparison of
figures. At the present moment there are
in the whole world about 12(5 000,000 of
English-speaking people. There are about
four times as many Chinese consolidated in
one corner of Asia.
* * #
If the chances of war be eliminated from
the question, it becomes simple enough.
Not much longer, can it lie supposed, will
the Chinese be able, even if willing, to avoid
intimate associations with the rest of the
world’s population. 4he Mongolian race
must cither extinguish all other races,
entirely or partially, or it must blend with
them. If the fusion bo peaceful, the future
inhabitant of the world will be more of a
Chinese than of any other typo. Since the
Mongolians constitute one-third, roughly
speaking, of the world’s population, the
progeny of a world-wide fusion would be in
type and featui’e one-third Chinese, about
one-sixth European, and the balance, in
varying small proportions, Indo-Caucasian,
negro, and so forth. But it would not be
rational, in view' of the present temper,
habits and tendencies of .nations and races,
to ant icipate a pacific fusion. The antipa-
thies lo be overcome are (on potent, the
combative' instinct still too predominant.
The Chinese will have to conquer or to be
conquered. Should they be conquered, yet
will their type enter into the man of the
future. Despite the utmost devastation and
slaughter conceivable as accompanying the
most savage struggle to which nations in-
spired by modern European civilisation
could by any possibility descend, the women
would be spaced, and of the two-and-a-half
hundred millions of males it is inconceivable
that a tithe would be extinguished. The con-
querors in such case would, as has happened
previously after a like convulsion, become
after a few generations modified into some-
thing of the mould of the people they had
subdued. And not modified in a physical
sense only. When the mighty fabric of the
Roman Empire of the West was over-
whelmed barbarous masses which
fell upon it, there emerged from beneath the
ruins a new creation of men, in whom the
old civilisation wrought towards its renais-
sance.
# * *
If, on the other hand, history should re-
peat itself, and China should break out in a
fresh eruption of warlike hordes, the almost
total obliteration of the European type would
be a not impossible consequence. The
Oriental system of warfare has lost none of
its devastating ferocity since Baber erected
pyramids of skulls as mementos of the de-
feat of an array and the extermination of a
people. J enghis K han, when he had subdued
the northern provinces of China itself, de-
liberately intended to exterminate the entire
population, in order to make the tract avail-
able for pasturage. The same Oriental con-
queror, on making himself master of four
great cities, gloried in the precision of the
record which handed down to posterity the
account of a slaughter of four million three
hundred and forty-seven thousand people.
Policy sometimes restrained ferocity, and
life was occasionally granted to such
suitable male prisoners as availed them-
selves of “freedom of contract” to
enlist in the troops of the conqueror.
Timour, at Delhi, massacred 100,000 pri-
soners because some had been seen to smile
on the approach of an army of their com-
patriots. Timour, on storming Ispahan,
raised a tower of 70,000 human skulls, and
on repressing a revolt at Bagdad employed
90,000 to erect a similar trophy. It should
not, therefore, be difficult to conceive how
nearly a Mongolian eruption, should it prove
successful, would approach to a process of
extermination. The scope of such an out-
burst may be imagined by reference to the
fact, narrated by Gibbon, that the hordes of
Attila, on entering Europe, swept the
whole breadth of the continent from above
500 miles from the Euxine to the Adriatic.
War, indeed, among any people, is but
organised savagery. The savage reprisals
by the Germans on the wretched inhabitants
of the petty town of Bazeilles, in revenge
for some shots fired from the houses, is still
recent in the memory of this generation.
“ Our men swore dreadfully in Flanders ”
and acted as dreadfully as they swore. The
“ Spanish Fury ” and the “French Fury”
at Antwerp during the struggle of the
Netherlands for independence fell little
short of Oriental ferocity. As recently
as 1820 the exploits of British soldiers in
America needed but little exascerbation to
rival the worst records. At New' Orleans
the General-in-Command issued as pass-
word for the day of an intended assault the
atrocious hint, “Booty and beauty,” and
when, on the march to Washington, the
soldiers, at the village of New Hampstead,
violated the women, their commander made
shift to excuse himself by alleging that as
old Peninsular campaigners they had acquired
habits of a regretable character.
* * *
It appears, then, that whether the process
be pacific or warlike, the Mongolian cannot
fail to impress himself upon the future popula-
tion of the world, to a degree which must be
regarded as nearly equivalent, even in the
former case, to overrunning it, and as in the
latter case tantamount to monopolising it.
There lacks for the more terrific event an
augmentation of motive forces already in
operation. The torrent of Mongolians
who obliterated the Roman Empire re-
ceived its first impulse from a convul-
sion in China. A stupendous remnant
of a vast early population, the Hiong Nu,
fleeing before a conqueror,, thrust before
them races more barbarous than themselves
and their separate and ultimately mingled
masses submerged European civilization from
the banks of-the Rhine and Danube to the
southernmost cape of what is now Spain.
Much consolation is sometimes pretended
to be found in the circumstances that
modern war partakes largely of the
quality of a science, and its 'materiel
demands for its construction and removal
mechanical processes and accomplishment's
which China as yet has not adopted. But
this is slender comfort in an age when the
very savages of Polynesia fire upon boats’
crews with magazine rifles, when African
kings insist upon having Gatling and Maxim
guns when complimentary gifts are in ques-
tion, and when our commercial morality is
so debased, that the most pious merchant
shuts his eyes, his ears, and his conscience
while his agents barter rum, rifles, and Bibles
in mixed assortments for ivory and gold-dust,
copra and pearlshell, and when, if two
nations are blowing each other’s people to
atoms, the traders of a third are eagerly
hovering round with explosives to sell.
Murder and Snuffle.
The bu.T'en of too much superfluous preacher
seems to have settled down heavily on New
Guinea. The missionary and the cannibal divide
the colony between them, and the rest of the
world is rigidly excluded. No bad Australian
miner is allowed to tread these shores if the utmost
exertions of the reverend shepherd can keep him
out. No low, degraded settler can buy or lease
land,- for the land all belongs either to the coloured
brother or to the Church, and the Church wants
all that the coloured brother can be induced to
part with for the good of Ids soul. Nobody trades,
there if the spreader of good tidings can help it,
for that person feels himself equal to all the trad-
ing requirements of the country; and, moreover,
it is claimed that the white man is a demoralised
individual, whose presence is calculated to pollute
the native, and prevent him subscribing his yam
to the great cause of Terewth. The imported
pastor, in fact, runs the entire Administration,
and in the glowing reports which he issues
from time to time he foreshadows the
coming of a Golden Age, when through
the exclusion of everybody except himself—
the eater of human flesh shall be reformed and
sing hymns beneath his palm-tree, and the savage
with the spiked club and the old squashed hat
shall take up a collection, while a few words of
Christian exhortation are offered by a person with
a fish-bone stuck through his.nose. New Guinea,
in that future period, is to' be an idyllic State,
where the simple, naked believer will wallow in
Sunday-school, and regard his missionary with a
profound and holy veneration; and as the first
step towards this millennium Australia pays all
the expenses of a Government whose chief busi-
ness it is to exclude Australians from the country,
lest their nefarious presence shall infect the shep-
herd and his flock.
* * *
There is a good deal of food for reflection in the
political system of New Guinea. If the white
man is so hopelessly degraded that his very exis-
tence in the island threatens to demoralise the
prize heathen of that locality, it seems strange
that the missionary should not rather devote
himself to elevating the miserable Caucasian so as
to render him fit to associate with the undressed
savage who goes round and kills his fellow-man
with a spear, and then eats him after he is dead
for fear he should go bad if left lying about. If
no white man, except the missionary himself, is
capable of mixing with the illiterate aboriginal
without dragging that unhappy individual down-
wards in the social scale, it naturally follows that
the whole white race, except the said missionary,
is on the high-road to perdition, and if missionaries
were subject to the ordinary rules of logic, it
would be hard to explain why the only virtuous
man in a perishing community should thus aban-
don his lost countrymen to hunt after souls and
copra in New' Guinea. The advent of the Cau-
casian in this new land, it is claimed, would be
the beginning of a gradual process of murder and
extermination, but it is this same homicidal
Caucasian who pays the preacher’s salary, and
under these painful conditions it would be a good
and holy thing for that preacher to give up his
high-priced billet, and devote himself rather to
educating the people who send the Gospel to the
heathen, so that they could be trusted within
gunshot of the tribes whose souls they yearn after.
As he shows no desire to attempt anything of this
sort, however, there seems some slight reason to
believe that his objection to any intrusion except
his own is based on the fear that there may not be
enough trade to go round.
# * *
British colonisation is a process of three stages.
The first consists in snuffling over the unhappy
native, the second in murdering him by various
means, and the third in snuffling over him again
after he is dead. Other nations murder without
the snuffle, and as no power yet discovered seems
sufficient to preserve, a feeble and decaying race
from extermination we would prefer the foreign
method. The snuffle is miserably incongruous.
Even the scanty intelligence of the missionary is
sufficient to tell him that the incessant restless-
ness of the Anglo-Saxon will lead him to overrun
New Guinea as he has overrun so many other
countries in the past, and even the limited reason-
ing powers of the preacher must tell him that his
picture of an Arcadian church on the islands is
the emptiest of shams. He has already failed
miserably in every country on earth—including
his own—and every successive failure is worse than
the last. The shoeless believer who is to sing
hymns under the palm-tree never even starts the
first verse. The person with the club and the
squashed hat who is to be converted and
carry round the plate doesn’t fulfill his
mission worth a cent, because he is away
eating a boiled child up on his native hills. The
reclaimed exhorter witli the fishbone stuck
through his nose never exhorts, and the reason is
that he is out killing somebody, or whaling his
wife with a bunch of brambles. But if everything
else fails the missionary generally gets far enough
ahead to secure the best lands before the secular
invasion begins, and he is doing this in New
Guinea to the utmost of his ability. After that
the heathen must take his chance, and it is
generally a bad one. But if, as is most probable,
the aboriginal of New Guinea is to go the way of
the rest, then for heaven’s sake let it be acknow-
ledged openly that he was killed off because he
was in the road ; and let none of the people who
plundered him, from the missionary downwards,
make a hollow show of yearning after him when
he is dead. For this yearning business lias
been altogether played out, for at least a half a
century.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Liberty of the Subject.
The Victorian Assembly is just now debating a
Factories and Shops Act Amendment Fill in-
tended to overrule certain municipal bye-laws, In
right of which Melbourne tradesmen are enabled
to evade, in a small measure, the seven o’clock
closing rule sanctioned by the Legislature some
four or fne years back. Objections, honest
enough and seemingly of considerable weight, are
urged against the “Curfew clause, ' as Tories have
trickily described it, said Tories choosing to forget
—if they ever knew that the Conqueror's enact-
ment deprived toilers of the very opportunities
for recreation which the Victorian law would
secure for them, The main argument against the
new Bill is that suburban shopkeepers must
thereby suffer a loss of trade, or even lie eom-
pelle l~to tfetfre from tlieif pre-ent occupations,
for the benefit of the large town houses.
Pathetic word-pictures of the struggling widow,
who supports a large family by retailing
small, fly-blown goods until a comparatively late
hour, are submitted to the notice of the colony by
ledalaters supplying their daily needs from “the
wholesale.” The anomaly of street-arabs being
allowed to vend matches in the streets until mid-


• ht is denounced on the false assumption that
n -ud urchins are a source of commercial injury to
the widowed keeper of a Berlin-woolshop. An-
other sapient contention is that, even if assistants
be allowed to leave at seven o’clock, “there
should be nothing to prevent their employer keep-
• 0. ope n, if he so choose, with the aid of his own
family ” which idea is calculated to encourage the
raising of shopkeeper families, and confer mono-
uolies u pon retail traders who have their quivers full
of them. It is fair to admit that no legislator has
o far attempted to prove that a strict carrying out
of Reakin’s Early Closing Act would work to the
disadvantage of any single industry in the aggre-
gate There are limits even to the bosh talked
bv petty-minded politicians. Admitted that a
very considerable number of shopkeepers stand to
lose custom, more or less, by the philanthropic
curfew, and that a few melancholy hangers-on to
the skirts of commerce would be forced to
relinquish their feeble grip. The commonwealth
must inevitably benefit by a law which reduces
the hours of labour for shop-assistants—a prover-
bially helpless class, by the way—tends to the
condensation of trade, forces the procrastinating
housewife to “get in her few things” within
the hours hitherto devoted to yarning across
the fence, and, most important of all, compels a
number of able-bodied non-producers to earn their
bread and cheese in employment more Useful than
that of waiting for customers in the little back
parlor, like spiders watching for flies. A real
sting lurked in Napoleon’s taunt that the Eng-
lish were a nation of shopkeepers. Too much
keeping of shop is not good for a nation. In all
industrial trades the desirability of diminishing
the ranks of middlemen is recognised, and although
the shopkeeper is an absolutely necessary middle-
man he is the last man in the country whose
profits should be protected at the expense of the
“liberty of the subject.” And the liberty of the
subject should commence at 7 p.m. at the very
latest when possible.
*■
The Day of Rest.
THE old Sunday observance question—that hoary
problem which first started when the primeval
patriarch nefariously navigated the Ark on the
day of rest —is again in full blast in Melbourne.
For years and years the inhabitant of that priest-
ridden, parson-sodden city has loafed wearily in
the gutters on the Sabbath day, and dejectedly
fitted his feet into the cracks of the pavement, and
surreptitiously shuffled round to the hack door of
the pub. and implored the landlord for a drink,
and has trailed dejectedly through the empty
parks or lounged profanely along that infamous
waste which forms the shore of Hobson’s Bay;
and for the good of his soul all rational recreation
has been denied him. The proposal to open the
public libraries, museums, and art-galleries has
been mooted a hundred times, and as often it has
been suppressed, lest these opportunities for
mental improvement should draw off the attend-
ance at the tabernacle, where the preacher shakes
up the old dry bones of dogma or snuffles with a
dolorous hum of wailing and lamentation over his
dead brother—the extinct Pharisee of the past.
The Daily Telegraph, in particular, _as _ the
voice of clerical intolerance, has lifted up its inky
dirge over the sinfulness of a scheme whereby
some dozen officials would be required to break
the Sabbath and knock the pieces about for the
public convenience; and when a great public
demonstration was held last week in defence of
the proposed innovation, and a few of the more
advanced clergymen appeared to support the “ un-
clean thing,” the language of that pious organ
was like unto the language of the indignant prize-
fighter, or the angry “drunk” who lifts up his
voice at the corner. It is true, of course, that the
tramway employes have to labour seven days in
the week in order to carry the languid saint to
church and back again ; and that the policeman is
required to break the commandment lest some
stray rowdy should hit the church in the eye on
the Sabbath ; and that the hired soprano in the
fashionable choir earns filthy lucre by toiling up
to G, and higher if she can manage it, with a view
to attracting the opera-loving sinner, and the
patron of the leg-show, within reach of the collec-
tion ; and the church-bell soloist makes the day
hideous at a fixed salary; and the par-
son follows his worldly avocation for money,
and if there is no money forthcoming
the flock may go and rave in Gehenna —all these
things do not count. Even the trains run on
Sunday, and fetch the suburban believer and the
outlying convert —but that also is a matter of no
importance. But the proposition that libraries
and art-galleries should be opened on the only
day when the people who pay for these institu-
tions have time to make use of them, has caused
the solitary white hair of the Melbourne parson to
assume a vertical position from grief and horror.
If the average preacher does not know how to
make himself interesting enough for the public to
care to listen to him, then the public must loaf
along the gutter and smoke its offensive short pipe
on the pavement as of old, and if it wants to
get access to any amusement which is better
and more, rational than leaning up against the
lamp-post] at|the corner, it is to be duly arrested
and fined according ti the Act of that pious
monarch who was a father to his people 200 years
ago—or, at least, who was a father to as many
of them as any one white man could well
manage to be. May his name be held in reverence,
for he was a good and holy potentate, who drank
liberally and cursed profusely, arid broke all the
commandments he had ever heard of; and when
he died of lush and other worldly indulgences he
left a Sabbath Observance Act behind him for the
benefit of his posterity—which was very numerous
and has drawn its pension regularly ever since.
+
The Crown in a Mess.
Since the Premier Building Association “trouble”
began to take the shape of a grave political scandal,
The Bulletin has faithfully foretold the develop-
ment of events in that most unsavoury connection.
It was indeed easy work to read the future up to a
time which has brought the Gillies Government
face to face with a phenomenal difficulty. Through-
out the piece The Bulletin has plainly and simply
declared that the Crown would have to take over
the prosecution from Colonel Templeton, and
would take it over with an earnest intention of
not going straight against its old friends and
political second cousins. “It must have Purves,”
we observed in the former of two articles,
headed “Watching the Crown.” The Crown
doesn’t want Purves, however. How can that
emblem of law and justice be in touch with a
dreadful man who undertakes to prove conspiracy
against a defendant who received letters full of
sympathy and “butter” from the Premier, before
the trial commenced? Pshaw ! Didn’t one or
more of the defendants honour the Speaker by
sharing his private box at Melbourne Opera House
after the trial had commenced ? Why, certainly.
Let us take the “official ” leaning towards these in-
fluential defendants for granted. Everybody in
Melbourne knows all about it, and there is no-
thing more sinfully funny than to watch the big
city pot—himself on good terms with officialism—
as he says, “I don’t think anything will come of
this prosecution, do you?’’ Before an honest man he
droops his eyelids after firing off the remark, to the
chum who isn’t quite so honest he winks solemnly,
pompously, not to say apoplectically. The wink
of the c xnmercial Podsnap is as impressive as a
royal funeral. But this by the way. Mr.
Attorney-General Righteous Wrixon has not
been discreet in his playing of the Crown game.
He has shown his hand in the second round, not
stealthily nor by accident, but with the ostenta-
tion characteristic of a man who broke exit into a
Bill at the first whisper of a Sunday newspaper in
Victoria. Colonel Templeton swore two charges
against the Premier Association directors. The
first is now being heard (or rather, wasn’t being
heard at time of writing), and the second —a
charge of appropriating share premiums to them-
selves—would naturally follow in due course. Mr.
Wrixon announces his intention to take counsel’s
opinion as to whether ho will allow that second
charge (that awkward, simple, straightforward
charge, which cannot be buried in a mass of evi-
dence and legal dust) to lapse, die, disappear.
Mr. Wrixon, already lias the opinion of the
counsel he unwillingly took over from Colonel
Templeton, and which include the appalling Q.C.
Purves. It was on their advice that the second
charge was booked. Their opinion does not satisfy
the Crown, so Mr. Wrixon has the smug imper-
tinence to pick Dr. Madden, a barrister now ap-
pearing for one of the defendants, as the head of
a tribunal which shall decide whether the slrares-
charge ought to be dropped'! ! The high profes-
sional reputation of Dr. Madden is out of
harmony, to our way of thinking, with his willing-
ness to sit in judgment on his own side. On the
other hand, the professional reputation of Messrs.
Purves, Coldham, &c., will not permit them to be
set at naught by anon-practising Attorney-General.
Purves, in particular, is entire master of the
situation in a sentimental sense, he being the
Queen's counsel, whose opinion the Crown is now ,
seeking to over-rule. The scandalous stupidity of
Mr. Wrixon has-fortunately put him right in the
mud he made for himself. The Crown counsel
have vehemently re-affirmed their decision that
the second charge against the Crown’s friends is
good ; further, that if the Crown doesn't prosecute
Colonel Templeton shall, and, finally, that they
will stand by the Colonel, who has fought against
political and Press intrigue single-handed, and
conduct the prosecution for love, honour and
glory. , The men stand pledged to themselves to
get somebody convicted, and _ the Victorian
Ministry—God bless ’em!—are in a distressing
quandary.
*
Saint Dailey.
The proposal to erect a memorial window to
Mr. W. B. Dalley, Q. 0., in St. Mary’s R.C.
Cathedral, Sydney, may be well-intentioned, but
has not been prudently conceived. Mr. Dalley
has had a tablet erected in St. Paul’s, in London,
but that building is not peculiarly a religious one.
Any man who, by powder, sword, or lying, adds a
slice of territory to the British dominion can look
forward to a niche in that house of worship, which
is but the prayer-room of a pawnshop. Any man
who gives Crown or Church a bagful of the money
lie sweated out of the poor or harvested from their
folly, can command a commemorative space on wall
or window. That church is a national hoarding
for the gratification of advertising maniacs, and
colossal wealth or colossal glory may dispute within
it pride of place and promineriqeof position with the
Ten Commandments or the emblems of Deicide.
The Australian St. Mary’s is not that—and the
Australian public who are called upon to subscribe
on this occasion should pause before they allow a
little St. Paul’s to be founded in their midst. Is
it Dalley’s religious character that calls for this
memorial window ? Dare a Roman Catholic
bricklayer who married outside the laws of his
church, and who lived the full length of his mar-
ried life in defiance of these laws, arid who only
after his wife’s death returned to the fold, look
forward to a memorial window in a Roman Catholic
cathedral church ? Dare he look forward to an
orthodox grave ? Deniehy did not so distinctly
and publicly reject ecclesiastical authority, and
the Roman Catholic Church left him to be buried
as a dog. Deniehy was not approved and extolled,
by Royalty or its associates, and down ac-
cordingly he was dumped as a dog, and
the church turned its. nose up and passed by,
sniffing the air of abstract virtue. Dalley has
been approved by Royalty and glorified by Pro-
testant St. Paul’s, and now a movement lumbers
along to establish him as a Roman Catholic saint.
Of course a man may repent of misdeeds, and
repentance welds together the broken links in
virtue’s chain. But who, we again ask, dare
maintain that Dalley would have ecclesiastically
repented had his wife survived ? Perhaps is the
only word which the observer of human pheno-
mena can apply to such a situation. His
brother-in-law, Sir James Martin, died unrecon-
ciled to the faith, his wife surviving. Dalley
died reconciled—-his wife dead. Had Dalley’s
wife survived, what is the rational hypothesis ?
Sir James Martin never adopted Church of
England faith. He was a Roman Catholic of a
firm Roman Catholic stock, of spontaneous
Roman Catholic sentiment, and, his wife alive,
he died as, in marriage, he had lived. But
although he was not an Anglican, Bishop Barry
went out and buried him with Anglican religious
rites. Why? Because he was a front man, a
“Sir,” a person whose standing when alive and
■ whose name wheri dead, were grateful to caste-
respectability. The same sentiment operates in
Dalley’s case. The Roman Catholic Church in
Australia has not had too many eminent adherents.
It is determined, therefore, to preserve its Dalley.
He was a Privy Councillor, a Right Honorable,
and a memorial tablet or window in St. Mary’s
will be an evidence to bricklayers and servant-
girls in the back pews that even distinguished men
believe in the faith preached from the. pulpit.
But Biddy must not forget that if she marries a
Protestant according to Protestant rites, she stands
a small show of getting a tablet; and Murphy,
the bricklayer, if he marries a Protestant woman,
will almost certainly be refused church burial.
Saint Dalley will have the privilege of looking
through a stained-glass window and super-
vising ceremonies generally in St. Mary’s, not
because he was religiously fervent, but because
he was politically and socially a success.
Dalley helped to butcher native Soudanese,
“rightly struggling to be free.” His advocacy
of this butchery, and that alone, gave him his
niche in St. Paul’s Cathedral. He was put there,
without any regard to, his religion. He was re-
garded simply as a useful tool in the hands of
“ Monarchy, of Royalty and he was on that ac-
count emblazoned. Are the Roman Catholics of
New South Wales who, in the main, are opposed
to the designs of Monarchy, Royalty, to back
up the theatrical manoeuvres of the Throne-
adoring experts of St. Paul’s? That is what the
whole thing comes to. As a Roman Catholic,
Dalley was of indifferent or no repute. As a
loyalist, a Royalist, his reputation was high. The
point then is, What is this window in St. Mary’s
to represent? Is it the butcher of the Soudan, or
the devout son of the Roman Church ? But
he was not the latter while home influence exerted
itself, and as the former his memory is not revered
by nine-tenths of the people of Australia. Mr.
Dalley’s nature was loveable, generous, sympa-
thetic. He was a wit; he was a poet, though he
sang but little. But he was not a saint. In
Australia, it rests with two classes only to pay
honour to his memory—those who were his friends
or beneficial res, and those who agreed with him as
an Imperialist.
:
Pierre Douar, a French convict, escaped from
Pentridge prison a few months ago, and win n re-
captured was sentenced to two years in irons.
Eyery evening at six o’clock he was locked up
alone in a cell where he had to stay in total dark-
ness from eight o'clock until six next morning.
When the warder looked in on last Thursday at
six a.m. lie beheld the dead body of Douar, who
had strangled himself in the night with the strap
by which his fetters were held up while he shuffled
along. Douar was a scoundrel, but a brave
scoundrel. That such hideous, useless and
alicnising penalties should have been inflicted on
the better side of his nature, his love of liberty,
man’s noblest instinct,-is revolting to the human
mind. How many men are driven mad by the
illogical and brutal solitary system it would be
hard to tell. How many men have been reformed
by the solitary system ? Some convicts can lie
down on hard boards in Cimmerian darkness and
sleep like pigs. For other men ten hours in a dark
cell, night after night, means insanity. “ I object
to flogging,” said Premier Parkes, not long ago,
“ because it is a most unequal punishment.” And
how unequal is solitary confinement, the Pro-
crustean bed, on which the law and the judges
stretch all men alike —those whose offences are the
result of calculating dogged brutality, and those
whose crimes have come from outside circum-
stances acting on nervous excitability ?
The action of the Sydney' ’Bus Co. in, to put
it mildly, discouraging the formation of a ’bus-
drivers’trades-union, was, from a ’Bus Co. p hit
of view, a deplorable tactical mistake. ' “ We
are,” praeticafly announce the company, “a lot of
capitalists who hate tradesumions, and we want
organised Labour to help us in getting control of
the Government tramways.” After this, one may
he sure that the New South Wales Trades and
Labour Council will help along the tram-sale pro-
ject by every means in its power. If sucli things
be done in the green-leaf what shall be done in
the dry? How helpless are the Melbourne tram-
employes in the hands of the local Tram and ’Bus
Co., a powerful corporation consisting to no small
extent of the very men who are endeavouring to
get the Sydney tramways - into their own hands !
The employes curse and mutter,: but—bah ! what
does the Company care? It has its servants
under the whip—it has on its books the names of
an army of applicants for employment whom it
has trained for its service and bn whom it can rely
to supply at a day’s notice the place of every man
Jack to whom it pays wages. The Sydney work-
men must bring the Sydney Tram and ’Bus Com-
pany’s employes, to the very last man and boy,
into the Labour Federation ere the Company
obtain the control of the city streets. If they
don’t they will in the near future be simply
laughed at by the furthest-reaching and most
energetic lot of big capitalists ever banded together
in Australia.
♦
There is one thing which nobody appears to
take into account in dealing with the Australian
grog-bill question, and that is the still active
spirituous influence of the amiable Mr. Eli John-
son, who visited this country a few years ago. Eli
was a temperance-reformer, so he said, and one of
the ways in which he used to show the folly of
spirit-drinking was this ; Standing on the tailboard
Of his cart with a tumbler containing an ounce or
two of white spirit in one hand and holding aloft
a little phial of coloured liquid in the other, he
would say—“ Now, my dear friends, I am going-
to make for you some rum.” After dropping a
■ little of the contents of the phial into the glass
and stirring up the contents thereof, he would
pass it round to be tasted, and, to do him credit,
everybody always pronounced - the mixture to be
most excellent rum. And so he went through the
whole gamut of gin, brandy, and so on. Of course,
Eli’s little jugglery tended to strengthen the faith
of the just who needed not repentance, but it.cut
two ways all the, same. Not a few of the low
publicans and sly-grog-sellers interviewed him and
acquired his secret—for, it is presumed, a con-
sideration. And that is possibly what is the
matter with the N.S.W. grog-revenue.
Mr. Joseph Mitchell, M.P., who has been
away in England for six months on private busi-
ness, and has during his absence drawn £l5O
“ Parliamentary allowance” from the New South
Wales Treasury, no doubt thinks he made a very
smart reply to a miner, a constituent of his, who
grumbles at Mr. Mitchell’s having taken pay for
work which he has neglected to do. “As ‘Miner,’”
he says, “only counts one, I find his proportion
of the said expense, if the whole amount be divided
among the population, is practically a third of a
penny. Enclosed please find a penny for him” —and
so oh. Now, supposing Mr. Mitchell had drawn
twenty times £l5O, or £3OOO, while away in Europe
it would, according to the same process of reason-
ing, only have cost the country under 7d. ahead,
and 7d., being only a little over the price of two
cheap drinks, is surely not worth talking about.
But there are such things as principles, Mr. Mit-
chell. When £5O is stolen from the public
Treasury it means a loss of only one-ninth of a
penny to each inhabitant of New South Wales,
yet the New South Wales Government puts into
gaol for perhaps three years the young man who
got the £5O. The Bulletin, of course, imputes
nothing dishonest to Mr. M itchell in this matter,
but it cannot help remarking that he has what the
Americans call “cast-iron gall.”
Combating an article which pointed out that the
greatest women had never attained the altitude of
the greatest man in any department of intellectual
activity, a Miss Helen P. Phillips, in the inevi-
table postscript which presumably contains the
gist of her argument, says ;
I presume a “Man ” has never heard of Miss Thompson,
Florence Nightingale, Queen Philippa, Queen Mar-
garet, Mrs. Garrett Anderson, and a host of others.
Up to now women do not seem to know the names
of the greatest of their sex ; it is almost a wonder
that the lady quoted did not instance Queen Vic-
toria, the impress Eugenie, Helen of Troy, and
Mrs. Doctor Potts, She omits altogether to
mention “George Eliot,” Georges Sand, and
Harriet Marttneac (a most masculine intellect)
and drags in Miss Thompson, who, only great
because she has been smiled on by royalty, is not
fit to mix colours for Rosa Bonheur The men-
tion of Mrs. Garrett Anderson, notably chiefly
because her doggedness procured for her an M.D.-
ship, and Florence Nightingale, great only l»-
cause of her extreme womanliness, and certain
queens (how your ordinary woman worships a
title!) proves that the lady, like many other people,
has not the faintest idea of what constitutes
greatness. Why should Florence Nightingale
be set up as an idol, while Sophia Perovskaia
(who is not respectable because she was hanged
recently) is passed over? What is Mrs. Garrett
Anderson compared with Mary Somerville ?
A Story of a Governor.
How I Beat the Baringhup Express.
Glancing through this book of Sir George Bowen s
(which, by the way, isn’t his book at all), I am
reminded of several events in that genial old
humbug’s Victorian viceregal career which his
chronicler has omitted to set down, One in
particular I will not readily forget, It was my duty
for several years to follow Sir George in his many
pilgrimages through the Victorian country dis-
tricts, and to duly and faithfully record his weighty
utterances. After a while this labour became to
me mere child’s play, as I knew beforehand pretty
well what His Excellency would say. Thus,
if lie addressed a community of miners, say at
Sandhurst, lie invariably made the Dignity of
Labour the burden of his speech, and lugged
in Bobby Burns and his assertion that “a
man’s a man for a’ that.” On the contrary,
amongst the bucolics of Bungaree, Oliver Gold-
smith and his “bold peasantry—their country’s
prid“,” supplanted the bard cf Scotland com-
pletely. Sir George was in great form at an
agricultural show at Baringhup so long ago that I
cannot remember the year. And I was there, too,
of course, to “do” the show, and the Governor’s
bold peasantry, and after it was over preparations
were made for a start by special train for Mary-
borough, nine miles distant. Sir George was to
meet the miners of Maryborough that same even-
ing, and I had to be in Maryborough also to do
the man who was a man for a’ that after Governor
Bowen had done with him. There was no pos-
sibilty of reaching Maryborough from Baringhup
except by the special train, consisting of engine
and ribbons, a most sumptuous saloon-carriage
(capable of seating comfortably 50 persons), and a
waggon to impart an artistic and comforting
finish to the whole. As soon as Her
Majesty’s representative—with suite of three
persons—had entered the saloon I prepared
to follow (a man being a man for a’ that), but
the horrified guard repulsed me rudely, and
directed my attention to the waggon, to which he
led me, opening the door of that same. On look-
ing in I observed hampers, wines—in short, as
much provisions and drinkables as would supply
the crew of the Orlando for a week. Stranger
still, there were seated in the waggon (and quite
close, you may be sure, to the liquors) three tall,
large men, with that seedy, shabby-genteel
clothing which so generally adorns the scribe in
every generation of the world’s history. These
gentlemen, I afterwards learned, were the repre-
sentatives of the Melbourne dailies. They had a
trifle more sense than I had then, for the journey
was pleasant and the liquor good. As for me, my
pride, as well as my sense, of eongruity,_ was
offended at the arrangement made, and I declined
to enter the waggon. “All right,” said the
guard ; a shrill blast of a whistle—phew
and in an instant there was I alone on
the platform and the train almost out of'
sight. There was no conveyance to follow; so
I set out to tramp the journey. It was 1a.m.
when I reached Maryborough : the town was as
still as the grave, and I fancied I could hear
Bowen snoring soundly as I passed the M‘Ivor hotel.
The only persons about were the Maryborough
Advertiser people-and—were not they about in
earnest. Where had I been—what had detained me ?
Why hadn't I stopped away altogether; for the
Governor had taken the miners by storm with a
most jovial speech. Well, I said very little, but
assured them it was all right, and set to work in
my room. 1 had the copy taken away by the printer
as fast as I filled it, and presently I had to describe
the express journey ; the waving corn (corn always
waves when a Governor drives past) I told how
an ignorant democratic bull rushed towards the
railway fence as the train came along, but retired
with a bow on perceiving Majesty represented by
this bland and gallant gentleman. And soon the
aspect of the whole country changed, and boulders;
and shafts and whips and whims and a general air
of desolation took the place of luxuriant pastures,
for now the bold peasantry was in the rear, and
the man that was a man for a’ that was forninst
us. Then came the reception and the speeches.
The Mayor of Maryborough happened to be an
undertaker that year. I knew what an under-
taker would say on such an occasion, and I wrote
it down. His Excellency? The thing was as easy
as lying ! I trotted out the bold peasantry (already
set up) and now I galloped forth the Miner,
the Toiler, the Worker, the man who was,
indeed, for a’ that—a Man ! Nor was Bobby
Burns omitted. I quoted—I mean Sir George
Bowen quoted—two full verses of the poet who
first in all Britain sang of the equality of man and
the dignity of labour. Other speeches followed,
and the report closed amidst general rejoicings.
Generally commended was that able resume of the
gubernatorial visit. I made one mistake. I stated
that the train arrived at Maryborough ten minutes
before it actually did. And that is how I beat the
Baringhup Express. And Sir George was greatly
pleased with the whole thing, and ostentatiously
put a copy of the. Maryborough Advertiser—
printed on white silk for the occasion—in his
pocket. Before getting to Melbourne, no doubt,
he used it as a pocket-handkerchief, and blew his
vice-regal nose with it.
SILENUS.
Women who do not fancy work “do”
fancy work.
In England, milk passes from the dairy
farmer in the month of May at 4id. a gallon to
the consumer at 20d. a gallon : there is a margin
of £20,000,000 between the sum which the English
cowkeepers obtain and that which is paid by the
consumers of milk.
Sir Alfred Stephen asserts that Gaptah
Cook named two openings on the N.S.W. coast
which he failed to explore, after the joint Ad
miralty secretaries of his day, Jackson and
Stephens, as he had previously named two N.Z.
headlands. Sir George Jackson, when M.P. for
Weymouth and Judge Advocate of the fleet,
changed his name to Duckett, but the monumental
tablet to his memory at Bishop-Stortford, in
Hertfordshire, records that the names of Port
Jackson (N.S.W.) and Point Jackson (N.Z.) are
records of Captain Cook’s friendship for the de-
ceased baronet, on whose Yorkshire estate indeed
the marine explorer was born. Ihe myth as to
the naming of the port after the sailor on board
the Endeavour, who discovered it, is exploded by
the statement of Childers as First Lord of the
Admiralty that no sailor named Jackson was on
board that vessel.


[?]
846 Macquarie-street North, Sydney, July 23,1890.
My Dear Moorabinda,—
Every woman whose chief delight is to sit at an angle of
80 degrees in the direction of her Gussie and let her tawny
looks tickle his jawbone in a sentimental way at dreamy
Intervals, will vote “Doll’s House” perfectly, sweetly
lifelike and go home fully convinced that it they weren’t
sure the cheap sentiment displayed by their Gussy wasn’t
purely spiritual, they would likewise leave him For Ever.
But the woman who reflects will probably smile cynically
—not at the high-flown “miracle of miracles,” but at the
idea of any caramel-chewing petted female leaving a
hubby, three pledges, and a comfortable home simply
because the old man, while in a state of semi-razzle-dazzle,
didn’t toe the spiritual scratch at a serious crisis ! But
“ Doll’s House ” shows femininity up in a perfectly charm-
ing light, and women hustle in the front seats with
exalted expressions in their eyes and smile in a
far-off tooth-achey way when addressed by degraded man,
who prefers his Nora Helmer d la first act, I know.
On 15th inst. Lord and Lady Carington were present and
were simply absorbed in the play. Lady Carington wore
a picturesque gown of wine-colour brocade, with elbow
Sleeves and full front of white gauze, white gloves,
diamond aigrette and bangles and Watteau fan, a lovely
managerial bouquet of unmanagerial appearance resting
before her ; Miss Walenn (who returns to England with
Lady 0.) pale yellow gauze relieved with brown, while
Captain Trench mounted guard with canary facings and
folded arms. There were lots of nice gowns in the circle.
Miss Hoffnuug wore yellow silk ; Miss Thorne, black .
Mrs. Kendall, white silk. Miss Aohuroh, who so superbly
plays Nora Helmer, w'ears Norwegian costume, the
clectrio-blue cloth gown edged with fur of the first act
being a dressmaker’s marvel—as is the terracotta and
brown fur frock worn during the next soulful rise of the
curtain.
Miss Achurch has caught on in Sydney as a woman’s
woman, and her dressing-room is thronged after the show
with emotional females in plush wraps who peck at her
frantically and gush in a weird, wild manner generally.
Your Sappho swelled the ranks the other evening and
found Miss Achurch in a pink and green floral dressing
jacket with a pound of vaseline on her face and hands.
“Don’t kiss me," she said, “until I have dried my
cheeks.” But the invading host pounced as usual. I
bate to see one woman kiss another. Such kisses are
matter in the wrong place—iust like clouds under the
finger-nails.
The only topic of conversation in Sydney at present is
the inwardness of Ibsen’s “ Doll’s House,” the comments
made on which strike me as very one-sided indeed. Everyone
appears to look at the matter from a she-standpoint; the
question invariably put being, “Is a woman justified in
leaving her husband when spiritual union is impossible?”
and nobody appears on the side of the defence individual-
ised in Torvald Helmer. Woman is generally conceded to
be hypersentimental and not so material as man, and
might (I don’t say would, for Woman as a rule is less able
to face the world alone than is Man) in a moment of poetic
exaltation, and with an idiot’s disregard of the after-effect
of her impulse, suddenly leave a husband who stood re-
vealed to her as a being of coarser instincts than she bar-
gained for; but how about the dozens of moderately
good men who have suddenly discovered that the woman
whom they married under the fixed impression that she
was very little short of an angel only melted willingly
into their arms from some ulterior motive, love of money,
luxury, a home—dozens of things? It is the very nature
of things under modern conditions that woman’s “ love ’»
should be far more mercenary than man’s- just look round
among your acquaintances and tell me if it is not so. I
a woman can leavea man because he isn’t the white exalt(s she
would make him,andwhich he didn’t wish toappear,surely
an honest man is at least equally justified in quitting the
society of a woman who stands revealed to him, both in
mind and in body, as a mere mass of pads. Now that I
have got almost to the end of this, I am cruelly told that
I have been unconsciously furnishing reasons for the
crusade of the Ibsenites against the prevailing state of
things.
After all, though one person deserting another because
his eye wasn’t lit up with the same fervent gleam as her own,
and he didn’t glare into the Beyond at the same aesthetic
angle, may he ideal ideality it’s not common sense. There
is no condition that has not its disadvantages and draw-
backs, and a woman wandering away from her husband,
for purely poetical objections, would very soon be sorry
she spoke. Men are not perfect—bless ’em !—but when she
found she had nobody to shy plates at or wither with
blighting sarcasm, or badger for a new bonnet, she would
want to lose her soul in a windy place and go back and
apologise. It is fashionable just now to howl matrimony
down, and one really conics to regard a matron as a
martyr in the tide of present popular opinion—but when
•me meets a single blossom on a withering stem and
listens to the drone of its discontented peevishness, one re-
cognises that it’s not only the marriage state that wantg
reviving, anyhow.
Save and except a reception Lady Carington held during
the early part of her reign, there never was such a one-
horse proceeding as the V.R. reception on 17th inst. Only
n smattering of people showed up and faded into the wet
again. The rain pattered dismally on the chairs placed
in the garden, and the Baron, in a blue tie, tried not to
look more tired than usual. Lady Carington, who flitted
from one damp person to another and made them forget
that their feet were wet, wore a home-gown of grey-green
woollen made with a plain skirt edged in the front with a
band of black lace, an artistic bodice with Zouave of black
lace and black lace sleeves, tan gloves and gold and
diamond bangles, and her hair beautifully dressed. Miss
Walenn wore grcen-aud-bluo tartan, wide dark-blue felt
hat and feathers; Mayoress Burdekin, heliotrope poplin
with velvet panels, Zouave of black lace and purple velvet
sleeves, bonnet in heliotrope, black lace and jet. Then
Sir John Robertson shook his mane on the scene ; a thin
bridegroom looked wretched as usual; and a gentleman
in howling gi;ey checks carried under his right arm a
paper parcel the size of six pairs of boots in a most charm-
ingly ddgagiS manner. The principal show of the after-
noon was the beautiful address painted by Mrs. Hunt and
presented to Lord and Lady Carington at Ryde, to com-
memorate “Arbor Day” on 16th inst.
Apropos to addresses, Lord and Lady Carington have,
through that dismal medium, achieved paintings of every
Australian flower, bird and butterfly. All the addresses
will be bound in a large book—even the unilluminated
foolscap outpourings are to be vice-regally cherished—on
the ptineiple, I suppose, that actuated the historical
prisoner who, on release, begged for his gaol cup and
platter “just to keep him from forgetting how miserable
he had been.”
The very latest gift from the engaged girl to her lover
is an embroidered pair of braces with their combined
monograms worked in her hair. By-the-by, gold-washed
girls are warned to leave these offerings strictly alone, as the
gilt comes off the hair even in the working, and if Adolphus
were confronted with a wishy washy monogram in mouse-
colour, instead of tawny gold, he would suspect aureoline
and fly to return no more.
Rain, sleet, wind and mud, with darts of sunshine just
to show how bedraggled you were, combined to make
Inaugural Arbor Day at Ryde on 16th inst.—a turned-up-
at-the-hems sort of ceremony, overshadowed by muddy
boots. The school was beautifully decorated with bunting
and blossoms, and the excellent luncheon was preceded
by an exhibition of work, and a concert given by the
pupils of the school, after which the tree-planting cere-
mony began. Owing to the descending torrents the leafy
formalities were brief. Lord Carington—who kept his
cuffs remarkably crisp considering everything—seized a
spade and buried the first root. Lady Carington (who
arrived after luncheon) followed suit, with an anxious eye
on the weather ; Mrs. Carruthers then grasped the garden
implement, scuffled a sapling into a large amateur hole
and retired hastily to shelter; and then almost everyone
stuck something in the boggy soil and filed in out of the
wet, and the proceedings terminated. Owing to the
awful weather no very special gowns resulted. Lady
Carington wore a slick navy-blue serge skirt, with Louis
front of cream chiffon with a diamond scarf-pin, fawn
covert coat, and bonnet of gold straw with cluster of pink
roses; Mrs. Carruthers (in mourning for her sister), a
black cashmere gown with flowing draperies, deepi crape
collar and cuffs, “Paul Jones” hat adorned with black
crape ; Mrs. Terry, drab silk, with bonnet en suite ; Mrs-
Darvall, black silk. On 25th inst., Lord Carington will
plant the first tree for the Fort-street School.
A number of Sydney suburban medicos have united in
B ; rcularising all the Parramatta friendly societies to the
effect that they will not meet in consultation the medical
officers of those institutions until the latter’s annual fees
are raised from their present rate of ten shillings pe
member; in a word, every medico selling his services at
that low figure will be boycotted by the Association. This
strikes me as a noble effort to maintain the prestige of the
science of medicine ; but with qualified doctors in every
rookery in every side street something had to be done, I
suppose. However, paper quarrels over the amount of
the fee aren’t quite in accordance with medical dignity,
and serve to bring the profession down a long peg.
Every doctor has a “ guinea muscle,” it is true, but, for
all that, he isn’t supppsed to know there is such a th ng as
a guinea, and the patient leaves it on the mantelpiece—
under the mat—anywhere, so long as Sawbones isn’t look-
ing, and he takes care he never is. The same, I afn told,
with the hill of costs, which barristers render to the
solicitor. The barrister does not add it up—professional
etiquette forbids—but he knows to ninepence how much
he ought to get, and he sees he gets it, too.
Which reminds me that lodge-doctors don’t, as a rule,
worry about their ten-or-twenty-shillings-a-year patients
A friend was dining with one of these doctors, and, ag
Doctor Forceps slashed into the roast-mutton, a ring was
hea.-d at the door, which Mrs. Forceps answered. “ Who
was it, my dear?” he asked. “Oh, only one of those
clubbers,” she said, with a sneer on her pretty little face;
“I told him you were engaged. They can’t expect to
monopolise you for the paltry fee. Won’t you have a
little celery sauce, Miss Johnson ?” And then the vegetables
were handed round.
Never have the “Knight and his Lady” pawed the
ivories and scattered the rosin to such advantage as at
their return concert on 19th inst. at the Centenary Hall,
when Lord and Lady Carington, with their little daughters
and. Mr. Seth Smith, and attended by Captain Trench,
were present, and the house was very full, notwithstand-
ing the soupy streets and curl-desuoying drizzle outside.
Lady Carington wore a black silk and lace gown with lace
elbow-sleeves, Medici collar and neck cut square frontally,
relieved with clusters of pale-pink roses and ferns, dia-
mond bracelets, and aigrette and long white gloves; the
other lady in the vice-regal party also wearing black,
while the little Caringtons were frocked in white silk and
blue. Lady Halle donned a plain gown in ruby velvet
with semi-detached train and a peppering of diamond
brooches on the corsage, shoes en suite. Mrs. Turner,
black lace and jet with pale-pink plume fan ; Miss Naylor
(who accompanied the Turners as usual) dawn-pink silk
with panels and folds of Maltese lace. Then here and
there in the high-backed pews were Carrie Swain in a pale
pink brocade and lace opera wrap with Medici collar over
a pale-blue silk gown and diamonds ; Frances Saville in
cream with bands of emerald green velvet, and a
large assortment of other fair notabilities. Sir John Hay
brought a large party of ladies, one wearing pale-pink
silk and a pink plume fan, another white silk beautifully
craped. A Margueritlsh get-up was in pumpkin-grey silk
cut squafe and filled in with pleated cream chiffon, of
which the puffed sleeves were made, Medici, collar and
reversof ruby velvet, grey gloves. Weber’s “Invitation
to the Dance,” played by Sir Charles, and the “ Barcarole’'
and “ Sherzo ” of Spohr rendered by Neruda, were the
encore pieces of the evening.
The reappearance of Miss Maggie Moore at Her
Majesty’s on 19th instant was greeted by a packed
popular house, which seemed to keenly appreciate the
little troubles of Meg, the pathetic if substantial waif in
verv short black clothes and very white.petticoats. There
were more dress-suits than evening bodices in the circle.
Clara Thompson wore a handsome red moire cloak with
bronze passementerie; and a large lady in black wore a
colossal diamond on the outside of soiled gloves. A lady
was present who dressed her hair like a Hindoo. In the
last act Alice Norton as Mrs. Radcliffe wore a Japanesy
gown in maize satin and crimson design ; Maribel Green-
wood, white silk, with electric-blue gloves and skirtal
ruche; and Bessie Colville sunflower-yellow silk with
bands of white silk and cluster of scarlet flowers. At the
end of the third act “Our Maggie” was loaded with
flowers.
One of the most interesting sights at high-class concerts'
that arise at long intervals in our midst, is the woman who
waves to and fro like a cobra-snake in time to the rhythm
of some classic “morso.” Vaises lend themselves readily
to their oscillation—one, two, three, backwards and for*
wards with an expression of sleepy soulfulness and your
eyes shut, but the time to observe the animated baton is
whten the piano-teaser is engaged on a selection in erratic
time. Then, if still at the game she resembles a reed
shaken by the wind, and the eccentricity of her orbit
causes her near neighbours to want their money back,
but if she is a hardened offender she keeps up a steady
sway while the pianist gyrates in nine-twelve time and
gets calmly out of beat with a confident smile as she
would say, “ Never mind—he will soon got the run of those
tenths.” I suppose they do it for amusement ?
The very latest idea, from a Sydney daily:—
TfiOß phrenologically-selected servants apply at Pro-
-* fessor ’s F.L. Agency.
Which opens quite a vista, doesn’t it ? Of course it seems
a very wise precaution to have Bridget's head prospected
before trusting her with the eternal welfare of your
infant or your own digestion-but, then, how far can phre-
nology be relied on ? She may have taken a header down-
stairs at her last place in a state of shocking intoxication
and so raised a bump indicating the most rigid teetotal
principles possible. Or she may have achieved a dint in
her skull through a key-hole having rushed suddenly
against her, said dint signifying an almost fastidious
objection to eaves-dropping on the part of the possessor.
And then, to reverse the picture, if the bump-scratoher
found an exceptionally wicked undulation on Bridget’s
cranium, all she has to do is to attribute it to a fall, or a
fight, or a bad cold, mark all the dark hints in her cranial
chart “ result of accident,” and come up like a lark at the
same old pound a week. I’m afraid this “ phrenologically-
selected servant ” won’t prove a very big advance on the
unprospected O’Hooligan, after all.
Yours affectionately,
SAPPHO SMITH.
Sydney Reunions meet again at West’s, on Ist August.
The little Carington children don’t want to leave
Sydney, because, they say, “we have 82 real friends in
Sydney, and we don’t know our English cousins.” They
have quite forgotten their august relatives over the pond,
which isn’t surprising, as the eldest was but five when her
parents exiled themselves.
Lady Carington is looking extremely well just now.
From which it is inferred that her ladyship very seldom
reads the evening papers.
The fast set in London always lay breakfast after a
dance.
The American girl styles the divided skirt “ bifs,” which
is a contraction of bifurcated garments.
In Paris they call the new style of ladies’ riding horse-
back, man fashion, “La Oalifornichienne.” The Journal
Amusant depicts one of them at the Grand Prix races.
The marriage of Miss Edith Denne with Mr. Frederick
Campbell, of Duntroon, happened at St. John’s Church,
Darlinghurst, on 17th inst. The bride was attended by
four bridesmaids in white silk frocks and sovereign-yellow
sashes, hats en suite, and posies of buttercups and ferns
tied with yellow ribbons, while the bride wore the orthodox
chalky garments in brocaded satin with a court train,
Medici collar filled with lace, and superb bouquet of lovely
white orchids and ferns. The bridesmaids were Miss
Emily Denne, Miss Emily Street, Miss Marian Campbell,
and Miss L. Darley. Mrs. Denne held a reception at her
residence, “ Baroda,” Macleay-st., after the ceremony.
A very pretty wedding happened at St. James’ Church
on 17th inst. between Miss Graham, of Glebe Point, and
Mr. Edward Garland, of Bayswater-road, Darlinghurst.
The bridal costume on this occasion was very simple and
becoming—just , a soft white silk trained gown, with a
necklet of valuable pearls. Five bridesmaids saw her
through in 'the fashionable combination of cream and
yellow, with buttercup posies, and the wedding-party was
a haridsomelj’-gotten-up aggregate. Mrs. Ho ugh ton" wore
a very striking costume of black velvet, with bonnet of
Gloite de Dijon roses.
The annual re-union in aid of the Tempe Refuge even-
tuates in Darlinghurst Skating Rink on sth Aug. at
8.30 pan. Gentlemen’s tickets, one guinea; ladies’,
10s. 6d.—to be obtained from Mrs. W. Carson, Hotel
Metropole; Mrs. Murphy, “Saxthorpe,” Victoria-street
north ; Mrs. J. P. Garvan, North Shore; Mrs. T. M. Slat-
tery, Macleay-street. The Tempe ball is always a success,
and it is to be hoped this one will be as well attended as
the charity deserves.
St. Andrew’s Cathedral was almost filled with spectators
to witness the marriage of Miss Ethel Terry and Mr.
Arthur Forrest, of Sydney, on 16th inst. The church was
beautifully decorated with white flowers and ferns and
palms, and the bride formed a pretty picture as she came
up with her four little maids in white muslin and moire
silk made very plainly with a foot ruche of lilies of the
valley and snowdrops. After the ceremony Mrs. Forrest
received the congratulations of her friends at Need’s
rooms.
Miss Augusta Dargon (Mrs. Dargon Fieroy) will probably
give a series of recitations in the Y.M.C.A. Hall—to com-
mence about 6th Aug. The entertainment will be in the
presence of Lord and Lady Carington, Lord Charles and
Lady Scott, et hoc genus omne.
Professor Anderson Stuart, “ Dean of the Faculty of
Medicine,” leaves Sydney in August for a bounce through
Europe, returning to Sydney about March, ’92.
The Royal Society of N.S.AY. will hold a conversazione
at the University during September.
Royal Anglo-Australian Society of Artists will exhibit
towards the end of the month at the Skating Rink, York-
street. Several of the best works have been already pur-
chased for N.S.W. National Gallery.
The Countess of Kintore will give a calico dance at
Government House, Adelaide, on 16th Aug. Calico cos-
tumes alone permitted.
The Private Cinderella, engineered by Messrs. A. A-
Smith and G. Callman, at West’s Rooms at 15th inst. was
a most enjoyable hop, though, owing to the bad weather,
several people omitted to be present. The dances were
varied by songs, Mr. Smith warbling “Only once more”
in beautiful voice, Mr. Fielding “Mona,” and Mr. Vincent
West gave “ For ever and for ever ” with great expression.
Of the gowns, Mrs. E. Shaw wore a handsome black silk
and lace, with clusters of saffron roses and diamond pins
in the hair; Miss Shaw, white silk and gauze and black
velvet bows; Miss Smith, white silk and pearls: Miss
McMahon, pink silk, Maltese lace, ard trails of blush roses.
Floor and supper were miles beyond comment.
The dance given by Mr. and Mrs. J. S. Carroll, of
“ Lugar Brae,” Waverley, on 16th inst., was somewhat
spoilt by the awful downpour, but about twenty-five
couples were present and enjoyed themselves immensely.
Mrs. Carroll wore black silk and lace ; Miss Carroll, white
satin and white jet; Miss Mabel Carroll, cream lace ; Miss
Haddocks, pale-blue silk and gauze; Miss Button, gobelin-
blue, with white scarves ; a handsome gown was in cream-
silk and Russian net, with crimson feather-fan. The
supper-table was beautifully decorated with the invariable
fairy lamps.
Communications intended for this column should reach
The Bulletin office by Tuesday.
A Milanese lady left her body to the town
to cremate, and requested that her ashes might be
exhibited in a glass urn in order to show the
public what the result of cremation really is. The
glass urn, containing a little heap of pearl-white
ash, stands at present on a marble pedestal near
the chapel in the great cemetery of Milan, and in
front of it is the photograph of the lady taken
during her lifetime. In London, the other day,
there was exhumed the body of a woman buried in
the year 1789. The corpse, which was that of a
finely-developed woman, bore but slight evidence
(says the British Medical Journal) of having
lain in the grave for a hundred years. So far
from showing signs of returning to its native dust,
it appeared to have turned into a dirty white wax.
It was almost entirely converted into adipocere—
skin, fat, muscles, and bones ; indeed with the ex-
ception of the leg bones and hands, the whole
material of the frame was turned, into this sub-
stance. The features were perfectly distinguish-
able, and any person who had known deceased in
life would have readily identified her. The hair
was partly covered by a closely-fitting cap; the
teeth were all in place.
If in need of a stimulant take Wolfe’s Schnapps
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Theatre Royal “Paul Jones.”
Her Majesty's “ Meg, or the Castaway.”
Criterion “Frou-Frou.”
Cvclorama Gettysburg.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Theatre Royal “Formosa.”
New Buou “Turned Up.”
Alexandra “ Master and Man.”
Princess’s “ Romeo and Juliet."
Opera House “ Now-a-Days.”
Gaiety Hall “ Aladdin” and Varieties.
“Meg, or the Castaway” is an atrocity
whose perpetrator trusts to evade justice by keep-
ing his name out of the day-bills. This neuralgia
in four acts is somewhat alleviated by the pre-
sence of Maggie Moore, who drags sweet melodies
into inane company for no other reason except
their saccharinity, and jigs on the carefully-sanded
wood-blocks of the Borough with the grace and
ankles that captured our susceptible heart 1G
years ago. This is the story;—Maggie Moore,
largely engaged in the match-industry, rescues
Violet Aston, alias Baby Nicholls, late of the
“Doll’s House,” from a savage bull-dog, who is
thereupon quietened by a blow from a shovel.
Frank Harcourt, in the dog-trade, presents his
little account, “to dead dog, £30,” and is
biffed off the premises at once by Harry Jewett
—virtuous for this occasion only—but returns
at a later hour and carries off the twenty-pound
child in order thattheoffice of family scrap-devourer
in his household may not remain vacant. The
unfeeling parents, Alice Norton and Hazlitt, don’t
seem to bother much over the loss, but at once
skip to the.Continong, presumably for a change of
heir. Jewett, however, at once sacrifices his
beauty, arid disguises himself as a coffee-stall
keeper, who searches for the lost kinchin with two
voices, one badly cracked, some broken china, a
tin of prepared coffee, and half-a-pound of the best
moist. He drops across Meg, whom anxiety has
kept from growing during an interval of two years
between acts, and they rescue Violet Aston, whose
growth has also been suspended, from the kid
and dog-napping Harcourt, who, by running him
in the water-cress profession, is rapidly amassing
a fortune and many grog-blossoms. Then Jewett,
who inadvertently has swallowed some of his own
coffee, falls sick and is nursed by Meg, who is
finally arrested because she didn’t steal a purse from
Harry Hoyt, a flaxen-haired idiot who lugs about
with him another awful imbecile named Lloyd.
After she has “done her stretch ” Meg is released
in time to see the restoration of the suit of
knickerbockers—on whom she lavishes an affection
fit for a Windsor uniform—to the arms of its
parients, who have not filled the vacancy in their
aching bosoms during its absence. Meg’s devotion
is finally rewarded by the hand of the coffee-stall
philosopher, now returned to decent society,
whose dress-suit presents a wider field for the
operations of her unbounded love than the little
“Lord Fauntleroy ” around wtiioh it has hitherto
enfolded itself. In describing this play we have
been obliged (having mislaid the programme) to
use the names of the actors instead of the charac-
ters they pourtray ; this will not prevent us saying
that Maggie Moore is every bit as blithe, tuneful,
active, and pathetic as of yore, and that Harry
Jewett, in a very lengthy and dual part, is
effective. The chance may be valuable to him in
the future ; it has shown what The Bulletin pre-
viously prognosticated—that “character” is likely
to be his strong point. The other folks have little
to do but stand round and look silly, and it is a
pity to see good people saddled with such impos-
sible and unutterable tommyrot.
■M # « »
80 far the “ Doll’s House ” controversy
has failed to occupy the only truly debateable
ground. Even Ibsen’s warmest admirers admit
that it is not a play in the conventional sense of
the term; therefore, here is no room for argu-
ment, and why there should be any as to whether
the conduct of Nora is reprehensible or otherwise,
is not evident in a community that swallows a
Lady Macbeth, a Camille, a Floria Tosca, and
countless meaner and more vicious creations with-
out murmuring. The real point for consideration
is as to whether Nora represents a type of woman-
hood, not whether the lesson conveyed by her
conduct is of good or bad import. In Torvald,
Mr. Titheradgc has a very difficult character
to feel, and therefore to impersonate--the actor
says the most difficult part of his life. If his per-
formance has a failing, it is that he does not, to
our mind, sufficiently accentuate the dismay and
astonishment that must overtake the martinet
confronted by the revolt of one who has,
apparently, heretofore been as clay in his hands.
It is usually assumed that it would be utterly im-
possible for Helmer, the hide-bound prig, to
emancipate himself from the fetters which custom
and nature have riveted around his soul, but if
suffering had power to awaken the dormant spirit
of the once frivolous Nora, it is not evident that
the deeply-moved man—engaged when the cm’tain
falls in thinking out his position—will not also
achieve spiritual deliverance. Krogstadt is a
stronger and fuller nature, thrust by circumstance
into tortuous - paths, desirous of better things and
capable of their attainment. Easier to imper-
sonate than either of the leading parts because it
is pitched throughout in one key, it demands from
its impersonator a faculty for the simulation of
intense feeling held in check by an iron will.
These conditions are admirably fulfilled by Her-
bert Flemming. None but a finished and
thoroughly-capable actress could carry Mrs. Lin-
den through several scenes almost devoid of action.
Perhaps Miss Enson is weakest at the moment
when her heart goes out to the lover of her youth.
Quietly played, the Dr. Rank of Charles Charring-
ton is effective, but in one exit he strains to simu-
late bodily weakness in a manner for which the
story furnishes no justification. By the way, “ A
Doll’s House” —best known to English-reading
communities through the medium of Miss Lord’s
translation, entitled “Nora” —was unsuccessfully
introduced to the British stage over five years ago
by Jones and Herman’s adaptation, styled
“ Breaking a Butterfly.” “ Frou-Frou ” succeeds
this play, which, so far, has had a most successful
run, on Saturday night.
** m *
The Reverend Charles Clark, whose re-
semblance to a dignified and glorified cherub
increases with the lapse of years, has been doing
good business at Sydney School of Arts. So far,
the most successful recitals (as a draw) have been
from the writings of the kindly and kind-loving
Dickens, who in Mr Clark has a sympathetic in
terpreter, one animated by a similar hmnani
tariamsm, and whose own jokes are evolved with
that elaborate attention to detail which charac
torised the great humourist. The last entertain
ments are announced—“ Macaulay ” for Thurs-
day, and “ Thackeray ’’ for Friday evening.
** * *
The humour of “Paul Jones” is purely
from the outside—there is not a- comic situation


A GHOST
is not a photograph, nor a photo, a ghost—but a good photo, is a
_ _ true reflection of the original. For high-art photos, go to the
London Palace of Art, 10 Park-street, Sydney. Country photographers’ work from developement
to completion executed at lowest prices. Bromides a speciality, Staff of artists kept for working up.
Insist upi i-. i ha ving Wolfe’s Schnapps,
liny Wolfe's Schnapps by the bottle.
in the piece—and the fun is all obtained by the
outraging of dramatic unity in the introduction of
Cockney jokes strongly seasoned with eucalyptus.
There is not a really good song in it for tenor or
baritone, and the ballads it does contain don’t
help the story a bit, and are supposed to have been
written in Volapuk ; anyhow this is how we hear
them from the front:
Skirts (sadly) —
Asasha ooshoo sho sozo hing,
Laloosha, lumshum lay.
Tights (imploringly) —
Sazza sozzo sum cum ling
Fiddle faddle, fie, fum fay.
Both (joyously) —
Razza Gazza, lumpty-tum,
Razors, gazers, tumpty-lumpty.
(Uproarious applause and double encore.)
Moreover, there are only two dancers in the com-
pany, Johnny Gourlay, whose grotesque pirouet-
ting is refeshing after the hamfatting of the ballet,
and Nellie Stewart, whose skirt-dancing does not
equal that of previous deities whose attention had
been given to nothing else. The part of Mala-
guena, filled at the opening by a lady who could
acta little but couldn’t sing much, is now occupied
by a feminine who can sing a little but can't act a
bit, who wishes it to be distinctly understood that
she's not the other party. The orchestra is gra-
dually getting licked into shape, and the house is
filled nightly.
vfc
The Halles’ second Sydney season has
been most successful, and Norman-Neruda is such
a tremendous favourite that she has only to poke
|,er head out of the retiring-room to get an ovation.
When Baron Carington picked my Lady up there
the otner evening after the interval—-he had been
presiding with Rupert at a Mothers’ Meeting at
the Y.M.C.A. dear, dear, what a lark that
was!-—the quick eye of the lady - violinist
spotted them as soon as she came on again, and
she gave two saucy, little nods, as if to say—
“ How-do, boys; glad you’ve come; better late
than never, I guess.” The Halles are going some-
where, probably to New Zealand, shortly.
* # *
Afc Darlinghurst Skating Rink, George
Campbell, of Newcastle, won the mile event for
the amateur championship of New South Wales,
after the downfall of Messrs. Garland, Hogan,
and Detores, his most lorraidale opponents, on
Saturday night last. The second night of the
Grand Carnival costume competition was a tre-
mendous success.
m
A controversy has arisen lately at the
Oyclorama as to whether the Battle of Gettysburg
was won by a person named Murphy or not.
Lecturer Beresford informs us that latest advices
enable him to speak authoritatively on this point
at certain hours during morning, afternoon, and
evening,
** & *
Manager Wyburd writes that the first in-
stalment of Egeson’s Drought has arrived at Bondi
Aquarium, carefully wrapped up in oilskin and
armed with goloshes and a goodly-sized gamp.
Pending the arrival of the other sections, he has
tapped a new brand of whisky and engaged a tor-
nado of talent for Sunday concerts.
*m * *
We read that “Considerable amusement,
not unmixed with indignation, is felt here
(Bourke, N.S.W.) at the fiasco in Sydney Theatre
Royal on Saturday week on the occasion of the
presentation to Miss Nellie Stewart of a wreath
of flowers nominally in the name of the women of
Bourke. Whilst all here fully appreciate Miss
Stewart’s generosity, still other more pressing
affairs claimed their attention. The wreath pre-
sented was never known or thought of in Bourke.”
When women present flowers to anybody, you may
safely bet that she is a queen, or a duchess, or a
countess —a “Lady” at the very least. Men
rarely associate to present flowers to anybody who
hasn’t a symmetrical arm, a well-developed bust
and nice ankles. The much-mashed givers of our
Nellie's posy were far too bashful to make the
presentation in their own names, so they sought bp
fasten the responsibility on to the women.
#* * *
At Melbourne Bijou, on Saturday night,
there was a crammed house to welcome a revival
of “ The Pickpocket, ” a well-balanced shriek which
has apparently been gaining in popularity during
the last three and a half years. Of the original
B. and B. cast only two members remain in their
old places ; but as one of these is the all-important
waiter, and as the changes are an improvement
when judged in the lump, “ The Pickpocket”
should be putting in his allotted six nights to
fast and furious business. A company including
Boueicault, Anson, Cecil Ward, Lyndal, Emma
Temple, Pattie Browne, and Miss Romer cannot
fail to bring out the bright points of a farcical
comedy when there are any such to bring out.
“The Pickpocket” is resplendent with them;
wherefore the necessity for next Saturday’s change
to “Turned Up,” a comparative chestnut, is not
strikingly apparent. Having the comedy game
in their own hands just at present, Messrs. B. and
B. seem to be playing for safety overmuch. How-
ever, the fault is a good one —for the public.
-*■ * *
Other Melbourne theatres are renewing
their old bills. A racing season following heavy
rains has improved the returns at some shows,
notably in the case of “ Romeo and Juliet. ” At
the Alexandra, too, a first-class performance with
the additional inducement of popular prices,
appeal both to the intelligence and the trousers-
pocket, like a clearing sale at enormous reductions.
“Master and Man” thrives accordingly, and the
relations between Bland Holt and his dog, Beelze-
bub, are of the most cordial character.
* * *
Old Jack Saxton continues to hump
“Now-a-Days” along at the Opera House with
strength and energy worthy of a better cause.
The management protest that “audiences have
steadily increased ” since the opening night, while
a section of the daily press discovers that the com-
pany supporting William Rignokl has much im-
proved ; which announcements are rather at
variance with previous ones to the effect that the
house was always overflowing and the cast unsur-
passable throughout. No matter. The Royal
pines and droops under that gloomy, explosive
calamity, “The Black Country,” yet several of
the parts are played more than well. Clyndes has
been coming out in his best style—strong, broad, a
little monotonous, but not lacking in bits of deli-
cate finish, withal. In the sensation scene he
throws off a well-remembered howl of despair,
the howl that used to fetch ’em at the
Grecian in days of yore, before that tem-
ple of blood-and-thunder drama and George
Conquestian pantomime was bought up by
General Booth for Hallelujah purposes. O,
what a fall was there ! Edith 'Blande, Maude
Williamson, and Royco put some pleasing work
into “The Black Country,” but their genius is
obscured by the idiotio behaviour of an object in
an Eton jacket, of the venerable driveller, who
desires to silence everybody, and the long, heavy
villain who is fated to dodge behind the corner
and overhear everybody’s conversation, after
which he stalks forward exclaiming, “Ha !” or
“So !” until he becomes nauseating. There never
was such a drama for dodging round the corner,
or glaring through the keyhole.
* * #
Next Saturday, however, the Royal should
make a fresh spurt with “Formosa,” that same
notable piece of impossibility not having been seen
in Melbourne for 20 years, they say. “Formosa ”
is magnificently naughty, and either of the tall
goddesses—Williamson or Blando —is fitted for
the name-part.
** * *
Melbourne Gaiety (under the Bijou) was
re-opened on Saturday by Slade Murray, who has
worked up a mixed entertainment, terminating in
a burlesque founded on the Sydney pantomime
‘‘Aladdin.” A “first part” is honourably dis-
tinguished by the absence of the gruesome inter-
locutor, who usually sits in the middle and incites
a couple of remorseless fiends to pelt him with
conundrums. Some varieties are unduly drawn
out, but the burlesque, supplying the eternal
demand for legs, comes like a boon and a blessing
to men whose appetite for the article is not too
fastidious. The Phonograph and a few other
shows are holding on to all they can get.
* # *
At the Town Hall, last Saturday, a pon-
derous concert was given in aid of the Dr. Neild
Testimonial Fund, and a further step in this un-
common direction will be taken next Saturday
(26th) when the theatrical profession purpose “ex-
pressing their appreciation ” of the Doctor’s Aus-
tralasian notices by an attractive matinee per-
formance at the Princess'. It is an open secret
ELECTRIC PHOTO-ENG. CO., 8 BRIDGE-ST. SYDNEY.
PHOTO. BY FAIR, GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
MISS JANET ACHURCH.
that the heneficiare's connection with the
aforesaid bulky periodical was severed in con-
sequence of his inclination, on a certain
memorable occasion, to bestow jam where the
Argus had not even smeared butter, consequently
the action of the purfesh is highly proper and
quite characteristic of their sweet tooth. More-
over, any movement for supplying any dramatic
critic with a lump sum is good, very good. The
Bulletin respectfully recommends to the notice of
managers, actors, and musicians, the claims of
many “critics” of quite another calibre still
on the job, men and women who have
grovelled at their feet in the past, and,
which is of more importance, will grease their
boots in the future, as long as life holds out. Too
long has the Press gushed along without getting a
benefit matinee, the proceeds to be divided accord-
ing to number of eulogistic adjectives published
per annum. Perhaps critics themselves are chiefly
to blame for this. So long as yards of drivel can
be bought with a casual drink, a bad cigar, or a
managerial smile, the reptile press (which wo take
to mean critics who crawl) will never earn a meet
reward in hard cash.
# # 9
But all this must not be taken as a drive at Dr.
James Edward Xeild, charitable physician and
cultured man of letters, on whom fortune has not
smiled of late, and who has made sacrifices for the
upholding of his personal independence. The
Bulletin is not unwilling to believe that the
theatrical profession really and truly admires and
is from the bottom of its heart grateful to cheery
old Doctor Neild —than whom no more interesting
man ever trod Australian soil —for the inestimable
services he has rendered to the drama and to the
poor players whom he has ever made welcome at
his hospitable home.
*» * *
The Sydney Morning Herald is alto-
gether out in comparing the reception given to
“A Doll’s House,” at Sydney Criterion, with
the patient hearing accorded to Ibsenism at Mel-
bourne Princess’s. In Sydney the first act was
recklessly guyed, and a reaction necessarily set in.
At the Princess’s the first act was received with
perfect silence, the seoond with an occasional
titter, and the third with ridicule at its close.
When Miss Achurch said “ Good-bye, Torvald,” in
sepulchral tones, the gallery boys wished him
good-bye likewise. It was a pardonable way of
intimating that they wanted him to clear. Again,
when Nora said “ Does nothing strike you ?” the
whole house roared inwardly. People evidently
thought that the husband —then played by Mr.
Charrington—should be struck by something. But
there was no real guying of the show, other than
in the vehement applauding of Herbert Flemming
whenever he came on to make matters fairly lively.
V- iK- tlt-
“ The Private Secretary” has once more
taken a strong hold on the Adelaide public, and
the Rev. Robert Spalding—“that miserable
worm —throws his emaciated form around to the
delight of large audiences. Frank Thornton, it is
to be regretted, was very unwell, and for two or
three nights it was with great difficulty he ap-
peared. Ho has now recovered, however. Har-
wood re-appears as Cattermole and has plenty of
fresh “gags,” and Eille Norwood warbles.with
success, while Frank Cates, Charlie Brown, Ned
Corlesse, Annie Taylor, Ada Leo, Brenda Gibson,
arid Emma Brontou assist in their own excellent
way. When business shows signs of drooping,
“ Sweet Lavender ” will be staged.
it- « tit *
Marian Burton made her first public ap-
pearance in Melbourne at Santley’s last series of
concerts under R. S. Smythe’s management, and
the success she achieved led tb the formation of
the “Paul Jones” Opera Company. It is rumoured,
however, that the engagement of the new con-
tralto for the Santley concerts led to strained
relations between R.S.S. and another popular con-
tralto, whose bark he had steered ever since he
brought her to Sydney with Arabella Goddard
sixteen years ago.
#* * *
When “A Churchman ” (th enomdephme,
we presume, of the Sydney Criterion management)
wrote to Sydney Daily Telegraph imploring
max-ried women to stay away from the noxious at-
mosphere of “A Doll’s House” lest their morals
should be contaminated, Editor Farrell ought to
have written hack saying that this caution, being
a xnere paraphrase of the Almighty's warning to
Adam and Eve about the apple-tree of Eden, could
only be inserted as an advertisement.
At Poverty Point.
R. S. Smythe wanted to “engineer” E. T. Smith
through Australia on a temperance tour, but the long-
haired gentleman decided lo stick to the temperance
societies. By this he makes considerably less than he
would with Smythe.
It is stated that Charles Warner, when farewelling in
Adelaide, expressed his intention of returning to Aus-
tralia and taking Adelaide Theatre Royal. He has made
up his mind not to reside permanently in London at any
cost.
There is some talk of building a second theatre in
Adelaide.
S. Herai/d reports Rev. Charles Clark to have said, in
his lecture on “ The Tower of London,” “ There was not a
nation that could claim to be civilised that did not
cherish a most profound and permanent reverence for the
battle-grounds of its liberties, the sepulchres of its
monarchs, and the temples of its God.” Now, Charles
Clark surely did not say anything at all about the
“sepulchres of its monarchs.” He said—paraphrasing
Macaulay in a “ La}' of Ancient Rome”—“the sepulchres
of its fathers, and the temples of its gods,” when we
heard him about fourteen years ago, and we presume that
even the Tory atmosphere of England has not made him
substitute king for father.
Eille Norwood, the actor-musician, won’t speak to a
woman with brown eyes—perhaps because his own peep-
holes are the tint of burnt hard-bake.
Messrs. Reed and Gross have brought the cycloramic
picture of “Jerusalem on the Day of Crucifixion” from
Chicago to Adelaide for exhibition. They imagine that
they have accurately gauged the tastes of “ the holy city.”
A philosopher, viewing the Melbourne GrAmmaf
School-boys acting so beautifully the young ladies ia
Molifere’s comedy, asked “What the deuce do we fall in
ove with ?”
Charles Charrington proposed to lecture on “Henrik
Ibsen and His Works” at Sydney Y.M.C.A. at an early
date. An official first inquired from Billy Manning if
“Mr. Gibson was going to give the lecture himself ?” When
thoroughly enlightened as to the identity of the lecture.!,
he declared that the hall could not be let for such a
purpose. Yet the hall was let to Miss von Pinkeisteiu
and the Rev. R. S. Smythe and the young gentleman who
played Jacob in a wax-nose and property-heard. How the
wicked world sniggers at the innocent Young Men saints !
Isabel Morris may return to Australia soon.
A Melbourne critic talks of Gustavus Valentine Brooke.
A pompous Sydney critic lias recently been compelled
to eat his own words. He didn’t like the job, but swal-
lowed them down somehow.
The Gilbert-Carte dispute is a financial one, which, snys
Gilbert, must be settled judicially. “The immediate sum
in dispute,” adds lie in a letter to the P.M. Gazette, “ is
£‘545- and this is a question that involves, incidentally,
Carte’s right to charge many other sums against me
during the past eight years, in fact, it involves the con-
struction to be placed upon the most important clause in
our agreement.” The dispute broke out over some carpet
purchased for stage-purposes.
In face of the tremendous crowds who peaceably at-
tended the Sunday balloon-ascents in Queensland, (ho
Sabbatarians are illogical!} 7 trying to show that the con-
tinuance of such exhibitions would be an interference
with the liberty of the subject.
The members of the profession in Australia view with
dismay the encroachment of individuals who pay for
appearances on the stage, and thus keep men and women
who have learned their business from obtaining engage-
ments.
Mrs. Brown-Potter, it appears, has relinquished her
projected visit to India. Negotiations for a lease of Her
Majesty’s Theatre are, it is said, pending with Georgius
Rex Rignold. Arthur Garner announces that meantime
he has made arrangements for their appearance in Ade-,
laide, New Zealand, and Brisbane.
Clara Merivalo, prima donna, interviewed in New Zea-
land, comments on the inexplicable antagonism of Sydney
and Melbourne, in regard both to pieces and acting.
David Christie Murray has given the original MS. of
“Chums” to Sir George Grey, who said when accepting
it —“ I shall present this to the Auckland Library. lam
not flattering you when I say that it is very valuable, and
would he so even if it were the poorest thing ever written,
for it is the first thing ever done by an English man of
letters for New Zealand.” Sir George also said that in
“ Chums” he had “for the first time seen human nature
staged unstagily.”
David Christie Murray says he could not have had a
20 per cent, better representation of “Chums” in London
than that given by _St. Maur’s company. He intends to
write a series of dramas on an Australasian foundation.
We inform David that the Australian term for fast friends
is “Mates.”
Augusta Dargon opens a dramatic recital season at
Sydney Y.M.C.A. on Gth August.
It seems as if Mary Anderson’s assertion that she has
finally abandoned the stage hears the stamp of truthful-
ness. She has taken no farewell tours. The stage-career
of the performer who starts farewell-touring can never be
stayed by marriage ; in fact, by no catastrophe hut death.
The publishers of Doctor Engel’s book, “From Handel
to Halid,” invite the public to purchase that.~work (the
sale of which, they say, has fallen to nil in consequence of
the seduction disclosures) in order that they may be able
to pay the much-injured Miss Knight her betrayer’s
share of the profits. One word for Miss Knight and two
for Barabhas.
Mr. Edward Manning, of Brooklyn, N. Y., threatens to
pay London a professional visit. Ned is the champion
egg-eater of the universe, hut, although his record is
seventy-two “hens" per minute, wo will hack two dozen
London “shopuns” and time against him.
Tommy Russell, the American Lord Fauntleroy, got 10ft
dollars a week ; but Ids step-father, who possibly married
Tommy’s ma because her son was a “ i ord Fauntleroy,”
demanded a “ raise.” The young actor got “ biffed out,”
and he and his step-father are now in the soup. There is „
only one nobler being than the child actor’s step-father—
the giddy actress’s husband.
Trewey, now showing at the ’Frisco Baldwin, is a
shadowgraphist, w hose pictures are thrown by his contorted
fingers in a darkened theatre on a calcium-lit screen. He ,
is Fvizzo’s only successor, and, it is said, excels him in
the production of finger-shadows.
Man wants but little Kyrle Bellew, hut woman lores
him long.
Sigg, a Swiss, who died a month or two ago at Zurich,
had a queer career. A professional acrobat, he so en-
chanted the King of Siam as to get a big billet at court,
and retired a millionare.
The kangaroo sent by Toole to Irving, arrived safe, and
is described as a “blue” one 1 It is flopping around the
grounds at Irving’s suburban residence, where Ellen Terr}
comes o’ Sundays, on purpose to look at itr
Old Yokes, father of the Yokes family, dancers, is just
dead. He foretold he would die on the very day of the
year, when his son Fred died, and. he did, just upon the
same hour. The Yokeses, Rosina, Fred, Ravvdon, &e.,
used to he the great attraction of the Drury Lane Panto-
mime, under Chatterton. He was 70 years,old.
Ballet girl lately found dead in bed, in Berlin— verdict,
tight lacing. She danced at the opera the night before,
and her liver proved to be shockingly contort d through
hauling up her stays. Dr. Virchow draws particular atten-
tion to tlie moral.
Fox, London theatrical wigmaker, says It’s amazing
what a lot of people he is employed to disguise, for un-
known purposes. Thinks some of them' can’t he square.
M hen Jack the Ripper was in vogue, Fox used to make
up 30 or 40 people a day, including many amateur 'rtee
lives, after Jack. Possibly ho went to Fox hlirtseh md
the perruquier shudders at the thought.
Those horribly offensive managerial bouquets, with the
ribbons, appear in the windows of Melbourne horticultural
shops, in t,ie daytime.
The most matter-of-fact man we know is a fellow
from .Dungaree, who went to see Bob Brough act in “The
Magistrate," You know the scene where the Magistrate
turns up at his office in the morning all over mud, after
his night’s escapade. Well, everybody roared with de-
light except the Dungaree man, who said, “ How can I
laugh, when I know ho only put the dirt on his clothes
behind the screen beynnt ? ”
The English theatrical press states that the relatives of
Leon Samwells, particularly well known as an acrobat in
Australia, are anxious to hear from him. His mother is
very ill indeed, and the doctors say she might, he restored
if Leon turned up. He was familiar in Melbourne streets
a few months hack, and within the last three months he
visited The Bulletin office at Sydney.
Now we have an observer going to a church gallery,
and declaring he sees more bald heads down below than
in the stalls, wherefore piety causes baldness. Confound
it, we arc had every way. This ingenious writer imagines
a bald head making love, pietic or otherwise, to a girl,
and just on the point of success, when she moralises on
three flies crawling on the shiny billiard-ball.
Luscombe Searelle has made such a pot of money in
Africa that he donates £lOO to the London Theatrical
Fund, With promises of £lO9 each year for the ensuing
two years. His comic opera, “ Bohadil,” is to he shown'
in London in September, and a cantata composed by him
is to be produced at the Crystal Palace.
Miss Carrie Swain does not join the Bracy Opera Com-
pany.
Harry Rickards, lately in Broken Hill, opens at Sydney
Behoof of Arts on August 2nd, playing overland froiii
Melbourne at Alhurv, Wagga and Goulhurn.
Prof. Baldwin and wife, with a draft from the
Rickards Co., are showing in Western Australia, whence
they purpose going to Colombo.
Mrs. Rignold, a stalwart woman, mother of William and
George, acted Romeo, Hamlet, and even Virginias.. This
reminds us of a recent lady lago in the States. Mrs.
Webb, in England, 80 years ago, used to act Falstaff.
Strange that the three leading London actors, Irving,
Beerbohin-Tr.ec, and Willard, should all he impersonating
distressed clergymen, Ly last advices: In mg as the
Vicar of Wakefield, Tree as the Village' Priest,- a'nd, Willard
as the Rev. Mr. Judah. . - • <
No B.C. priest is allowed to go to the theatre) u Cardinal
Manning’s diocese. , . 7 ,


The popular liquor—Wolfe’s Schnapps.
For Indigestion
USE HOKSFOHD’S ACID PHOSPHATE.
Dr. Robert Pollok Simmons, M.R.C.S., Scar-
fxjro, says ; “ I have used it witli marked benefit
in a case of indigestion of many years standing,
and it proved very useful.”
Land at Perth, W.A., the best Investment
Plans from Intercolonial Investment 00., Ltd.
!•<! llntliurst-streot, Sydney.
STAMPS FOR COLLECTIONS.
150 choice Foreign, all different, including Haiti, Heligoland, Bulgaria, Bolivar, St. Lucia,
Panama, etc., post free, ss. 2d.; 50 different Australian, Fiji, Samoa and Tonga, ss. 2d., post free.
Price List of Stamps, Albums, etc., gratis. High prices paid for old Australian Stamps (1850 to 1860
issues), or old collections, of any kind.
D. A. VINDIN <Sc CO-, Foreign Slainp ami < oin
II VICTORIA Arcade, ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY; AMI AT HAMBURG.
PULVERMACHER'S WORLD-
FAMED GALVANIC BELTS
KOI! THIS OUUK OF
Nervous Exhaustion and Debility, Sciatica,
Lumbago, Rheumatism, &c.,
HAVE received Testimonials from Three
Physicians.to Her Majesty the Queen and
the Leading Physicians of many Loudon Hospi-
tals, including over Forty Members of the Royal
College of Physicians of London.
For full Price-list and particulars, see new pam-
phlet “Galvanism; Nature’s Chief Restorer of
Impaired Vital Energy.” Pamphlets Feee.
Sole Agents for N.S.W.,
FROST <Sc SHIPHAM
ELECTRICIANS,
474 & 587 George Street, Sydney.
Wolfe's Sehuapps will do you no bavin.
The Premier Firmament Building
Association Prosecution.
A Melbourne Police Court Comedy.
The hearing of the charges of conspiracy against
the directors and others interested in the above-
mentioned joke was resumed at 10.30.
Mr. Panton, P.M., presided. The Bench of
honorary magistrates was not very full before the
luncheon adjournment, but subsequently it seemed
to become as full as might be expected.
Mr. Purves, Q.C., Mr. Cold ham, &c., held fat
briefs for the prosecution ; Sir Bryan O’Loghlen,
Mr. Gaunson, Mr. Theodore Fink, Mr. Lyle, and
others appeared for the rollicking rams out of the
dock.
The case having been called,
Mr. Gaunson wished to know whether the
Bench intended to hang Colonel Templeton,
without the option of a fine, before proceeding
further with this most monstrous charge. Time
was being wasted in hearing objectionable evi-
dence against the defendants, who were not used
to that sort of thing, and desired to leave the
Court, without a stain upon their characters, as
quickly as possible.
Mb. Fink.—Right you are, says Moses.
Sib Bkyan. — l beg to call the attention of the
Age reporter to the fact that Mr. Purves is picking
his teeth. Under the circumstances, I think it
would be more decent of my learned brother to
apologise to these influential parties (pointing to
the defendants) and ask the Lord to have mercy on
his soul.
Me. Pubves. —If I can’t pick my teeth I’ll pick
a quarrel.
Sib Bryan. —Another insult to ould Ireland.
Mb. Gaunson. - Can you pick a dead bird for
the Steeple? (Loud laughter, during which the
Age representative prepared heading for next morn-
ing’s report: “Mr. Gaunson makes short work of
the. Prosecution. ”)
Mr, Panton. —Let us get on with the hearing.
Much amusement was caused by the frolics of l
the defendants at this stage of the proceedings.
They were discovered to be playing “Buck,
buck,” Messrs. Doherty, the Corkhills, and Mur-
phy acting as bucks, while the more distinguished
defendants sat on their respective backs.
Mb. Panton.—Gentlemen, do, please, resume
your seats and stick to euchre.
Mb. Mi bams (to Doherty). —Buck, buck, how
many fingers do I hold up ?
Mb. Panton (sternly). —lf you don’t play a
quieter game I must certainly commit you.
Mb. Gaunson. —Well, why doesn’t the Crown
provide them with a football?
Mb. Lyle.—Or engage some nice girls to come
"and tickle tnem under the chin. The gentlemen
must put in their time somehow.
Mb. Purves. —They ought to devote their minds
to repentance.
Mb. Gaunson.— Repentance ! Ain’t it sick'n-
ing ? We haven’t come here to be bullied.
The Court's attention was attracted to the fact
that one of the Murphys had gone outside to see
a man, and the case was adjourned for an hour
until he came back.
Mb. Panton (sternly).- -Where have you been
this time, sir? Did you go out to have another
Turkish bath?
Missing Murphy.—O, I’ve been keeping dark
off the weather bow.
Mr. Panton. — If it occurs again you will be
chained up. Let us get on with the case.
Mb. Gaunson. —As I was saying, the insect
Purves is downright sick’ning.
Murphy (in a stage whisper). —Fight him for a
fiver, and I’ll hold the stakes.
Mr. Coldham. —Ah, you want some more loans,
I see.
Mb. Gaunson (excitedly).— None of your dirty
insinuations. Get on the lawyers’table, and I’ll
fight you for any stakes you like.
Mr. Panton.—We will all fight for steaks, with
onions. The court is adjourned for luncheon.
After an interval of two hours the Court re-
turned, looking much refreshed.
Mb. Bunge, a speculative builder, was examined
by Mr. Purves, and deposed that he remembered
the land boom before it went bung. Couldn’t say
for certain why it went bung, hut thought the
banks were responsible. Didn't believe in banks
himself, but always kept his money in a stocking.
Mb. Gaunson. —That won’t wash. ( Great ap-
plause, which was continued until Mr. O. stood, on
Mr. Lyle's head and bowed his acknowledgements.)
Mr. Bunge, resuming, said that he had gone
over the Elsternwick proper y, and valued it at
something between twopence and three millions
sterling. Some people would call it dear at two-
pence, while others considered it dirt cheap at the
larger figure. People varied in their ideas,
especially in building societies. Some of the
houses were finished, and he thought they would
be suitable residences for his mother-in-law.
Cross-examined by Mr. Gaunson, the witness
stated that he didn’t know whether the defendants
were whiter than snow, but supposed they would
be if whitewashed.
Mb. Gaunson.— Did you ever see any of the
defendants before to-day ? Remember you are on
your oath.
Witness. — Well, on my oath I can’t see any of
them now.
Mb. Panton (sternly). —What is the meaning of
this—have they all gone on the loose again ?
Mb. Lyle indignantly denied that defendants
had gone astray as suggested. They were playing
a quiet game of skittles in the lobby.
Mb. Panton. —l cannot allow this. Yesterday
afternoon they took a trip to Ballarat, and now
they are playing skittles.
Mb. Purves. —It's a-way they've got.
Mb. (r AUNSON. —None of your nasty innuendoes.
You deserve to be set up for a ninepin yourself.
Mb. Coldham.—For a pun-ish-mcant. (Load
laughter, during which one of the honorary magis-
trates rolled under the Bench and took no further
part in the proceedings),
Mr. Panton : Bring in the defendants.
Mil. Gaunson.— -They can’t come just now;
they have finished skittles and are tossing for
drinks with the Ministry.
Mr. Fink (rushing in excitedly)'.—Nebuchad-
nezzar ! here’s a- lark—Duncan is let ; in for the
liquors !
Mr_, Gaunson.—Serves him right for permitting
this ridiculous prosecution to continue. I don’t
know where he expects to go to.
Mr. Lyle. —l guess they are all going to .the
Blue Lion. Pretty bit of muslin at the private-
bar.
Mr. Purves.—Wait till we get them at the
public-bar. ,
Mr. Gaunson.— None of your disgusting insults,
you are nothing but a cowardly bully.
Mr. Coldham.—lf a cow, ’ardly a bull he.
(General collapse of counsel , who fell upon the floor
and roared laughter.)
Mr, Panton.— Let us get on with the case with-
out the defendants, I would certainly commit
them if they were present.
The Court Orderly. — l beg your pardon for
interrupting your worships, bub there are six wit-
nesses in the witness-room, beastly drunk. They
ordered a hogshead of beer and bathed in it.
Here’s one of them. Look at him, your worships,
he won’t put his clothes on.
Und raced Witness. —Three cheers for Build
Shassiety !
A constable here stated that he was quite worn-
out with rescuing the witness from drowning.
Mr. Panton : Who is this unclad person ? Do
you know anything of him, Mr. Lyle ?
Mr. Purves : He had been seen taking bags i f
lollies from the Murphys.
Mr. Lyle : That’s false.
Mr. Panton : I cannot allow such expressions
to be used.
Mr. Lyle : Then I will merely say that t! ®
learned O.C. is a liar of the deepest dye, and I
respectfully ask that the Crown shall not be
allowed to make any more witnesses drunk on the
premises. The Attorney-General amuses Irinself
by throwing sovereigns into the hogshead while
these poor fellows dive for them. The top of the
f
cask was staved in by the Crown Solicitor on
purpose. t
Mr. Purves. —Nonsense, you know very well
that it is all Nirarao’s doing. He pretends that
he wants to make “ shocking examples ” of them.
Mr. Panton (sternly). —-Orderly, take the wit-
ness into my private room and wash the beer off
him. Let us get on with the case.
The cross-examination of Bnnce by Mr. Gaunson
was then resumed.
Mr. Gaunson.—Are you aware, sir, that the
defendants are as innocent as Mary’s little lamb ?
Mr. Paxton. The character of Mary’s little
lamb is not in evidence.
Mr. Purves.— The Crown doesn’t object to the
question; the young sheep referred to was a
fleecy animal.
Mr. Gaunson.— l will not submit to your vil-
lainous interruptions. I move that this prepos-
terous charge against gentlemen of known integrity
be referred to a select Parliamentary committee.
(A show of hands by all the counsel resulted in
favour of Mr. Gaunson's amendment, Messrs.
Purves, Coldham, and Co., being the only dis-
sentients.)
[ (Mr. Panton (sternly). — l have already stated
that the Bench intend to hear this case right
through. Let us get on with the evidence.
At this stage the drunken witness already
referred to rushed into court and began putting on
his trousers.
Mr. Fink. —l must really ask the Crown not to
provide this man with another barrel of rum. He
is putting on bis breeches wrong side front.
Mr. Gaunson. —l call it a breeches of the peace.
(Loud laughter, in which the Agk reporter heartily
joined.)
Mr. Paxton. -Detain that inebriated person
till the rising of the Court, and supply him with
plain sodas at the Government expense.
Mr. Gaunson —Another shilling from the Trea-
sury. It is high time this infamous prosecution
came to an end.
Mr. P anton (sternly). — Get on with the ease.
At this'stage the defendants all tumbled into
Court, head-overJieels, and sang the. “National
Anthem.” ■ •
Mr. Panton.—' This is most disgraceful. If the
defendants absent themselves again I shall cer-
tainly commit them. Take off that false nose,
Mr. Gourlay; and you, Mr. Nimmo, have the
goodness to put away that bottle.
Mb. Nimmo (indignantly).— It’s only lime-juice
and water. This case is so dry.
Mr. Gaunson.—l don’t wonder at my client
going in lemons for lime-juice. (Laughter.)
The cross-examination of Mr. Bunce was about
to be resumed when it was discovered that the
witness had gone home to an early tea.
Sir Bryan. —The prosecution has broken down.
What does Bunce mean by disappearing in this
fashion ?
Mr. Gaunson. —Shrimps, I suppose.
Mr. Coldham. —His absence proves him to be a
non est man. (Laughter.)
Mr. Panton. —You are jumping on the deposi-
tions, Mr. Lyle, and I must ask you to desist.
Mr. Purves.—Yes, and Mr. Gaunson has been
expectorating on them; they will not be fit to
touch presently.
Mr. Gaunson. —I expect to rate you when I get
you outside. (Great Laughter.) You’re not fit
enough to touch me.
Mr. Panton (sternly).—Let us get on with the
case. ,
Mr. Dow.—lt’s 100 dark to proceed further.
Sir Bryan.—l have the honour to observe that
there’s light enough to see your complete innocence
by, Mr. Dow.
Mr. Gaunson. —UnJoirtedly. (Laughter.)
Mr. Panton.— Under the circumstances the
Court will adjourn until to-morrow, at 10.30.
Mr. Lyle observed that one of the Murphys
thought he had toothache coming on, so it was use-
less to think of resuming next morning.
Mr. Fink suggested that Mr. Gourlay was
likely to suffer from colic on the day following, so
it would be better to lot the matter rest a while
longer.
Mr. (I.vi nson thought that an interval of five
days would give the insane prosecution time to
.decide whether the defendants should be released
on satisfactory pensions and created K. C.M.C.s.
The Court was then formally adjourned for a
week, and defendants left the scene with a Salva-
tion Army band, singing “ Flocking through the
Cates of tlm New Jerusalem.”
(Curtain.)
Anagram (Official Liquidator loquitur)
Premier Permanent Building Society—“ Ruin
conspired by great men ; I let R. M. in/’
A brewer, interviewed by a Sydney daily
paper, has the calmness to state that the strong
English beer imported to Australia in bulk would
not even at the same price hold its own in the
market against colonial beer. If that brewer will
send along his name, lie shall have a duplicate of
the champion belt by return post.
Here is an extract from some verses by
Lalmohun Ghose, a young man of purely Indian
parentage and English education ; —
Deep-shaded will I lie, and deeper yet
In night, where not a leaf its neighbour knows ;
Forget the shining of the stars, forget
The vernal visitation of the rose ;
And, far from all delights, prepare my heart’s repose.
O crav e not silence thou 1 too soon, too sure,
Shall autumn come, and through these branches wee));
Soon birds shall cease, and flowers no more endure ;
And thou beneath the mould unwilling creep,
And silent soon shall he in that eternal sleep.
Green still il is. where that fair goddess stravs,
Then follow, till around thee all he sete.
Lose not a vision of her passing face ;
Nor miss the sound of her soft robes, that here
Sweep o’er the wet leaves of the fast-falling veor
This is the man to the colour of whose skin Lord
Salisbury on. a memorable occasion somewhat con-
temptuously alluded.
The S.'A. mouse-yarn season is now over.
After careful consideration of the claims of the
competitors, The Bulletin has decided to award
the palm to the gentleman who wrote this :
The live mice were in such numbers that it was only
necessary to lift an empty sack, and a hundred or more
would be prancing about your feet. The dead mice are
past counting ; the ground is strewn with them, and in
many places there are thousands in a heap, so that the
smell is horrible. One day during the week 30 mice
entered a box at the public school whilst the children
were in school. The master shut the lid, and the children
killed them when school was out. Although the prevailing
colour is grey, yet some white ones have been captured,
and a nice roan-coloured one was caught last week.
Three boys, the eldest being 12, spent their last holiday in
catching mice, and they caught 6520. Several fanners
have been catching 6000 a week, and a friend of mine
caught 21 in a gin-bottle. It contained a little oil, and
they went after it until the bottle was full, and the top
one had been partly eaten by his comrades.
On application at this office the champion belt,
which has been held by one of our staff for five
years, will be handed over. The finishing spurt in
the above yarn defies competition.
The history of exploration is full of mean
yarns. For instance, it is related of one illustrious
Australian explorer that he used to secretly steal
sugar from the camp-supply for his own use, at a
time when his party were on short rations. The
complete story of the Burke and Wills affair
has not been told, but it may be one of
these days; and now Stanley, speaking at
tlm Savage Club (some of the members of
which hissed him at a recent dinner), has
painted. Emin Pasha as a weak-minded, slothful
sensualist. ‘ ‘Some trenchant examples were given of
the Pasha’s vacillation, naturally irritating to the
verge of desperation to a man of Stanley’s calibre,
and a story told of the mischievous effects of the
German’s fatal fondness for fair women. This
yarn showed how Emin’s chief officer discovered
that the Pasha had seduced his favourite
wife’s affection. The irate husband thereupon
swore to kill either Emin or himself or his wife,
before sunset. Emin fled to Stanley for protec-
tion, which the explorer granted, but only
on condition that he was permitted to arrange
the matter as he chose. He then had the lady
brought before him and insisted on her returning
to her husband. She said, ‘Never! never!
never!’ and, unveiling, exposed extraordinary
charms. But Stanley was adamant, and would
admit of no compromise. After three interviews,
at each of which the damsel repeated ‘ Never !
never ! never !’ she accepted Mr. Justice Stanley's
(?) flat, and crept away to her husband’s hut. He
met the lady in a right spirit, and they livid
happily ever after. ” Now let us hear Emin’s story.
Cheating the Coroner.
HOW THEY DO IT IN PAŔAMATTA.
We frequently, hear of doctors, cheihists and
undertakers being - banded together to provide
victims for the la ter to practise the rites of his
profession upon, and probably circumstances arise
that give, some colour to tin - saying.
The Lt st ease is that of Mrs, Kelictt, a lady
well knownAn'Parramatta. She had long been
looked upon as a fit subject for the coroner to
“sit upon,” she moped about, was melancholy,
suffered acute pain, and was always, what is
technically termed, “down in the dumps." She
writes the following account of her singular
experience ;
Four years ago I caught a severe gold which settled in
my head and chest, and, caused, an incessant cough and
copious discharge of phlegm : this brought on great weak-
ness and debility. After considerable attention and doc-
tors’ treatment the cough was relieved and Anally cured,
but the debility remained and seemed to defy the skill of
the medical men and the power of medicine. 1 had no
appetite, and could scarcely eat a, particle of food, and
was almost reduced to a skeleton, having entirely wasted
away. I bad taken pints of cod-liver oil, malt- extracts,
and other medicines without relief, when I was recom-
mended to take Clements Tonic. 1 procured a bottle,
and'am thankful to say that I immediately began lo
improve : ( could eat better, and relish and digest, "what 1
did eat, I gained flesh every day, and m,v sp'eiigtb
rapidly returned, and after six weeks’ treatment with
Clements’. Tonic, t felt a new woman altogether. I tpok
Clements' Tonic six months ago, and have never hud any
Sickness since, and am only too glad to add my name to
your list of grateful sufferers,
We often hear of such cases and we never hear of
.cases Clements’ Tonic won't cure, It -contains
the material in a scientific combination that
renders it the best, safest, most reliable and, -only
effectual remedy for all symptoms of amend;!,
which is only the commencement and cause .of
almost all disease in this country. Anaemia is the
beginning of decay and needs vigorous treatment,
and if neglected will so undermine the system
tiiat it becomes susceptible to an attack of any
disease to which the .patient may be liable. If
you want to get on as Mrs. Kellett did, and keep
out of the coroner's and undertakers’ hands follow
suit to her lead, take Clements’ Tonic, it will
cure you as it has cured others. Beware of imita-
tions, which are prepared only for the sake of the
vendors’ extra profit, ahd Hot fol‘ your Welfare j
and remember that the man who would take your
money tor a base counterfeit of the genuine article,
is worse than the thief who picks your pocket, for
he not only rifles that pocket but he trifles with
your health, if not your life ; any man who,offers
a substitute is dishonest, so never let him get
another penny of your money. You may consider
this boasting, but it is not, so you are wrong ; we
speak this emphatically, because we know we are
talkin;/ farts. Send your name and address and
we will prove the value of Clements’ Tonic by
outside evidence which cannot be disputed. F.
M. CLEMENTS, Newtown, N.S.W.
The all-engrossing subject at Picton,
N. is—ls it fair for a Civil servant in his
spare time to compete with the local cobbler in
soleing and heeling? The quarrel threatens to
bring about a local civil war.
Liver complaints.—Dr, King’s Dandelion
and ( juinine Liver Pills, without mercury, are a
potent—-English remedy ; remove all liver and
stomach complaints, biliousness, headache, sick-
ness, shoulder pains, heartburn, indigestion, con-
stipation.


xjicxsrca-aar-A.axr’ie
“ELECTRfC” SOAP
IS THE
Greatest Labour Saver
OF THE AGE.
wash done in half the time, and
better, by its use.
Buy Wolfe's Schnapps by the bottle.
Vi olfe s Schnapps should be in every house.
BUGGIES, BUCKBOAEDS,
—AND— >
ITICTORIAS,
At MANUFACTURERS ‘PRICES.
Send for Catalogues and Prices to
THE E. B. WHEELEB GO.,
265 Clarence Street, S S UITE It.
Personal Items.
Mi’. Francis Addy is getting a taste of Ids
own medicine.
Stanley’s latest march—perhaps his last—
the Wedding March.
Tahnage is 09, but still \ igorous, and
turning in over £12,000 a year.
The Rev. R. S. Smythe was at one time a
reporter on the Adelaide Advertiser.
Hat Lang, Melbourne’s Mayor, is a wine-
merchant,' with a snug cellar in Mark "t-street.
Julius Vogel has just fallen om a cab.
Geniuses often jump together, even out of cabs.
Sixty years ago (Cardinal) Manning and
Gladstone were fellow-clerks in the Colonial
OHico.
“ While I am alive I will allow nobody to
occupy my chair in the Colonial Secretary’s office.”
Pvrkes.
“I wish to die as a priest should die,”
says Cardinal Manning, “without money and
without debt.”
Prince William of Saxc-Woin ar has duly
tiled his schedule and been turned cut of the
German army.
Queen Victoria’s books will not bo pub-
lished till after her death. She evident y wishes
to live as long as she can.
T. B. Hannaford, the well-known Auck-
land (N.Z.) matrimonial-agent, is dead and has
gone to heaven where no marriages are made.
The Blundells, of Wellington (N.Z.) Post
always reach for their money. They don’t even
stick at summoning a novelist for two pounds.
Brigand Stanley got married while suffer-
ing greatly from gastritis a polite name for
stomach-ache, strictly so called. How romantic !
Mrs. Exploit r Stanley pledges herself to
go to Africa with her husband, should he decide
upon further explorations in the Dark Continent.
David Christie Murray and Henry Herman
wrote a novel, “One Traveller Returns.” When
D.C.M. goes home to London there’ll be—more
than one.
Princess Louise is once more on friendly
conjugal terms with the Marquis of Lome. They
say she lets him kiss her royal hand once a week
regularly.
Pictures of Kensington Palace, in an Eng-
lish paper, include the room where Queen Victoria
was born —quite a mean little apartment, with a
very low ceiling.
Pauton, the Melbourne magistrate, paints,
and has presented two of his pictures to Sand-
hurst Art Gallery. They could hardly refuse to
hang a magistrate.
There are some veterans onS.A. Register
staff. Cooper, the overseer, has served over 50
years, Wilson about 45, and Holden, musical
critic, close on 50 years.
Jos. Syrnes thinks that an unanswerable
argument against the reliability of the Scriptures
can be found in the fact that the whole of the
Apostles were fishermen.
Jewess is plainly written on Madame
Melba’s face. Which proves that honest Dave
Mitchell, and the rest of the British nation, form
the Ten Lost Tribes of Israel.
Sir Charles Halle’s daughter is an artist,
though not as a musician. It was she who de-
signed the medal recently presented to Stanley by
the Royal Geographical Society.
A bankrupt ex-bank-manager at Nelson,
N.Z., cannot get through the court because his
wife has £4OOO a year, and will not advance a cent,
to pay a small dividend to his creditors.
Ceorge R. Sims says he was 26 years old,
and had been persevering for 10 years, ere he had
a line published for which he received payment.
He must have met some tough editors.
A year ago the Czar warned Bismarck (so
the latter says) that he was not safe; but he re-
plied with the utmost confidence that he would
never be dispossessed as long as he lived.
The genuineness of what is called “Liberal”
journalism in London can be judged from the fact
that Edward Lawson, chief proprietor of the
Telegraph, entertains “Tummy” at his private
house.
Now they say Queen Victoria’s proper
birthday is not the 24th May, for the Saturday
Review tells ns Prince Albert Victor was made
Duke of Clarence on the < Queen’s real birthday—
not her official one.
Our Gracious has been chumming in with
the somewhat disreputable ex-Queen Isabella at
Windsor. Nobody can make a more generous
allowance for the weaknesses of warm royal blood
than good old Y.R.
Jos. Symes’ organ, the Liberator —which
has eome out in mourning, someone or other
having been killed in a politico-religious free-fight
■—contains a list of persons excommunicated from
the Secularist Society.
As William O’Brien, M.P., has never paid
the damages, £3OOO and costs, obtained against
him by one Bolton, nor the taxed costs of Lord
Salisbury, he showed a level head in settling his
wife s money on herself.
Stuck!, the amateur cricketer, who was
here with an English eleven, and who went to
ylnna as a missionary, is now working in London
m conjunction with Quintin Hogg’s admirable
institute for Poor Boys.
Tn one of the Australias, an old Parlia-
mentary hand was lately introduced to a visitor
as the Father of the House.” Said the visitor ;
li.i !m ,V i OUr House is ma , de U P of the greatest
mt of blackguards in the colony. ”
We are informed by Mr. G. O’Kane that
*ie has occupied the editorial chair of the Northern
Miner ever since his now-deceased father’s health
broke down last November; and, moreover, that
he has no intention of vacating his post.
<)f the four Dukes of Clarence who pre-
ceded Prince Albert Victor in the title, one was
poisoned, the next killed in battle, and the third
came to grief in a butt of malmsey wine. It is
feared that the present Duke will be choked by
his collar.
Charles Gavan Duffy writes to Parkes that
“without work a man of busy brain has no tran-
quility.” Duffy, it must be remembered, is a
pensioner, and a pensioner generally works pretty
hard at a hobby. Duffy’s hobby (like his friend’s)
is getting married.
John Dennistoun Wood seems to be com-
fortably establishing himself again in practice as a
Melbourne barrister, after nearly 30 years’
absence. O’Shanassy, Haines, Heales, and
Wilson Gray, all long dead, were his fellow-
gladiators in politics.
Lydia Mamreoff von Finkelstein has not,
as might be supposed, married a meek little darkey
with thin legs. _ On the contrary, her husband,
W. Mountford, is a giant of 6ft. 2in. Lydia at
latest had gone to the U.S. with her husband,
who had got six months’ leave of absence.
Judaism is gradually becoming a mighty
proprietorial, as it has long been a literary, power
in British journalism. Everyone knows who owns
the London Daily Telegraph ; Oppenheim—one
of the Daily News proprietary—is a Jew; the
proprietor of St. James’s Gazette is a Jew-—and
so on.
Rabbi Philippson, of Chicago, has pub-
lished there a new book called “The Jew in
l‘ ielion. ’ He follows the same lines as were
taken in a paper by Mr. F. D. Phillips, solicitor,
before Mell ;ourne (Shakespeare (Society. Both
writers crack up to the skies George Eliot’s
Daniel Deronda.”
Barrister Lockwood, who makes one of
• he finest incomes of the British Bar, and is noted
fur the instantaneous sketches with which he inter-
lines bis briefs, is about to invest money in an
illustrated newspaper, Black and White, in which
be will be associated with Justin McCarthy,
junior, and Mrs. Campbell-Pracd.
UN. re S ' r/NND
* e FALL
Matt. Morgan, artist, has died in America.
He sprung into fame with, that slashing Toma-
hawk, which, 22 years ago, lashed the Prince of
Wales, especially with a cartoon of the ghost of
George IV. The thing was nobbled, and Matt,
turned to artistic work in the States, as cartoonist,
theatrical picture-poster man and scene-painter.
He missed a great career through the nobbling.
Queen Victoria has lost her oldest friend,
Lady Ely, sister-in-law of Lord Augustus Loftus
—which accounts for the milk in the eocoanut.
Her Majesty used to call Lady Ely “ Janey,” and
Janey didn’t forget Gussy. Victoria and Janey
were friends nigh 50 years, quite like Queen Anne
and the Duchess of Marlborough, with their Mrs.
Morley and Mrs. Freeman. “Vicky, give Gussy
some more pie.”
(Sir William Fraser says that Venables,
Q.C., was the breaker of Thackeray’s nose in that
tight at Charterhouse School. Let us disinter a
venerable story about a relative of Venables,
Q.C., aforesaid. Mr. Henry Venables, when
Secretary of the Victorian Education Department,
inadvertently addressed as “ Mr. Stewart ” a
gentleman who took considerable pride in the fact
that his name was “ Stuart.” The affronted scion
nf royalty insolently directed his reply to “Mr,
Vegetables, Secretary, Education Department.”
A Molong (N.S.W.) clergyman says he is
told that the Right Hon. W. E. Gladstone-one
of England’s greatest (if not the greatest) orators
and statesmen—has to be watched like a child-
thief ; he has gone to the hatter’s and toy-shops and
ordered 200 hats at once for himself, takes lease of
an expensively-furnished room, clears it out, sends
the furniture away to auction, then refits up the
room with dolls and tops as a baby-house. His
wife has had to follow him into shops and counter-
mand the silly orders of the almost nonagenarian
debtor, and ask tradesmen nut to execute such
orders and release him from responsibility incurred
till his whim is over.
POLITICAL POINTS
Holden, the S.A. Treasurer, is a Wesleyan
local preacher.
mi il l c< »
There are 690 public-houses in S. A., or
one to every 460 people.
Queensland beats Victoria by 100,000 oz.
in the gold-yield of 1889.
Ash, the solitary freetrader of S.A. Par-
liament, wants to increase salaries of members to
£3OO.
r, . T} v , , i ,
S. A. Parliament has recognised ministers
of religion as eligible for corporation councillor-
ships.
The new Victorian railways assented to by
ij r , •„ , J , j •„
Parhament will be 1116 miles long and will cost
over £14,500,000.
Some N.S.W. railway employes say that
the old style of political influence is preferable W
o cia pa lonage.
Bismarck has confidentially explained that
the only way to deal with Nihilists is to strengthen
and sharpen the law. .
In tho Corporations Bill, which has passed
through 8. A. Assembly, the basis of taxation is
the unimproved value of the land.
Bailes, a member for Sandhurst, warmly
supports the Victorian Bill for compulsory closing
of shops at 7 o’clock. He keeps a pub. himself.
, ~ ... , a- u .
Gillies has the magnificent effrontery to
announce that he cannut allow “log-rolling” in
connection with the Victorian Caucus Railway
Bill.
There is consolation in the troubles of
one’s neighbour. The N.S.W. Freetraders howl
with delight on learning that men want food in
Victoria.
Mr. Zeal, in the V ic. Legislative Council,
took round his hat for the Melbourne unemployed
and collected £404. It was a worthy and some-
what solemn proceeding.
Note how the Melbourne Press has been
forced to report the unemployed meetings, after
obstinately struggling against it, trying to bury
the movement in contempt.
The Shearers’ Union has shown itself to be
the most determined, energetic, and brainy labour-
union yet organised in Australia. All good things
come from the bush and the North.
It cost £70,000 to fork up H.M.S. Sultan
from the bottom of the Mediterranean, where she
long lay slumbering among the winkles, and now
experts say the vessel isn’t worth mending.
The Admiralty’s new vessels, the Victoria
and Trafalgar, are dismal failures. They have
been constructed with all the weight at the ends,
and, consequently, have buckled up in the centre.
Can Cardinal Moran afford to inaugurate
an uncompromising teetotal crusade? How much
of the revenue of the R.O. church in N.S. Wales
is directly or indirectly contributed by the whisky
interest ?
Rochefort coolly tells a London inter-
viewer, in excellent English, that Boulanger is
played out; but then in the next breath he says
there is sure to be war, and Boulanger will come
to the front.
God bless the Duke of Argyle! The
Crofter Commissioner has reduced his rents in
Mull 3!) per cent., and in lona 27 per cent. They
have also cancelled arrears of rent to the extent of
7° per cent. !
“The Churches must deal with immorality;
the State must do justice to the children,” —says
Rev. Dr. Marshall, dealing with this proposal to
legitimise illegitimate children by the marriage of
their parents.
A correspondent forcibly points out that it
takes about as many persona to see that the
people do not illegally pass the time on Sundays
as would be occupied in catering for their amuse-
ment had they complete liberty.
Socialists maintain that the great French
Revolution was only a middle-class movement.
One Babceuf, in 1796, headed the first Communist
insurrection, and was guillotined by the Directory,
which at that time was getting ripe for Bonaparte.
Another member of the N.S.W. Assembly
is seriously ill. Michael Chapman, member for
the Glebe, has been prostrated by paralysis,
Messrs. Dibbs, Lyne and others are also laid up,
and many of those who are not sick are trembling
on the verge of bankruptcy.
Should the proposed agreement between
S.A. Government and .Silverton Tramway do. be
ratified, good-bye to the N.S.W, railway scheme
for securing the Broken Hill trade. By that
agreement the S.A. Railway Commissioners can
boss the traffic for eight years to come.
A unique and creditable feature of the
N.S.W. Orange organisation is its devotion to the
Temperance cause. But what else could be ex-
pected when the name of an Irish king adorns
every second public-house sign? In Ulster the
brethren do more than their share of bar-room
work.
* That well-known Englishman, Potter,
M.P., lately said, after a visit to Paris, that
French workmen were better off than the English.
Whereupon the English consul at Havre remarks
that, though the Englishman earns more than the
Frenchman, the latter's clever wife makes his
wages go ever so much further than the English-
man's.
Paul, M.P., of Bathurst, has just said
that bijt for the refusal of the N.S.W. Legislative
Council to legalise Party Processions he would
unfurl the Grange banner in the local public park.
Proclamations of this kind should strengthen the
resolution of the Legislative Council not to permit
in N.S.W, any extension of the manslaughter
industry.
Mr. Crick is taking action in the case of
the imprisoned cabman Sweetinan, who was sen-
tenced to fourteen years’ gaol and two floggings
by Judge Windeyer in connection with the Mount
Rennie business. Logically, Sweetinan, on whom
the Judge practically laid the whole burden of the
crime, was as much responsible for it as Garden
Honey was responsible for the bombardment of
Alexandria.
“ When Sir Henry Parkes asked whether
it would not be more glorious to belong to a nation
whose flag was respected in every sea rather than
to an obscure colony, the very geographical posi-
tion of which was unknown in Europe, he would
reply ‘No,’ if greatness was to be accompanied,
as in the ease of England, by such social horrors
as the sweating committee of the House of Lords
had exposed. ’’—Gordon, 6. A. Min inter of Educo-
i he Bulletin notices that a large per-
centage of that small number of people who
publicly change their religions are appearing on
the relig o-political platforms in Australia. When
a man (or woman) “ travels ” on the fact that he
has turned his back on the creed in which he was
born and ostentatiously reviles that creed, he is
affrays an impostor and devoid of true religious
feeling. There are good men of every religion and
every religion is good—from Christ’s down to Joe
Smith’s, to them who honestly believe in it. The
man who makes political capital out of his alleged
change of belief is despised by both sides.
The people of N.S. Wales, according to
official statistics, only consume 2.88 gallons per
head per annum of proof alcohol, of wine, spirits
and beer, while in Victoria, according to the State
returns, 4.10 gallons per head are required per
year. The people of N.S.W. are not more sober
than the Victorians, but they drink more “sly”
and doctored grog which pays no duty. Scores of
thousands of gallons of white spirit have been
secretly distilled in George-street, Sydney, under
the noses of the police, and one of the very biggest
fortunes made in Australia was founded on fire-
water manufactured on the premises. The enter-
prising gentleman is now dead, and his memory is
respected by all who never knew him thoroughly.
A good bed companion—WolfeV Schnapps.
To daikon grey hair.—Lockycr is Sulphur
hair restorer is the quickest, best, safest, and
cheapest. Large Bottles, Is. 6d. Everywhere.
It is vvisc to provide against emergencies which
are liable to arise in every family. In sudden
attacks of colds, croup, asthma, etc., a bottle of
Ayer’s Cherry Pectoral, will prove a never-failing
remedy.
Dear Bulletin, —The parody on Volapiik
in your paper of to-day, purporting to be from
the opera “Plofed,” is amusing, and might be
taken by some to be the genuine article, though it
appears to be a mere jargon of pigeon English,
German, Prcnch, mediaeval Latin, and Volapiik.
It may interest you to know that, in spite of ridi-
cule and many obstacles, the intrinsic merit of
Volapiik is gaining for it official recognition.
Thus in Russia the Board of Censors, who
formerly absolutely prohibited Volapiik literature
because unintelligible to them, have learnt the
language and, being now able to read it, admit
such literature when in itself unobjectionable.
Again, a telegram transmitted from one part of
N.S.W. to another in the Volapiik language was
charged the extra rate for cipher messages. How-
ever, the head-office in Sydney decided to charge
the telegram at the same rate as telegrams
in English, French, German, &c.; and promptly
returned the extra charge. The department may
thus be said to have officially recognised Volapiik.
— Yours, &c., Arthur W. Bateman.— Manly,
19th July, 18'JO.


PRIMTf
8 A R
i#\ {
6^
s.—Which tliov could not make up their minds to
'do until they heard themselves addressed by their l
Christian names.
4.—They at last find a private
bar-—quite by accident, and here
we find them -f getting their,
courage up to enter.
2.—Here we see “ our
representatives” going forth
to “do ” the private bam
Being both unsophisticated
young men, “ Where the
deuce abf the private bars?”
they asked each other. “We’ll
inquire of a policeman ! ”
3.—" All over the place,”
replied 1 '2.145.
G.—One of the young ladies
asked “ our representative ”
what he thought about some
very elegant stockings and
shoes that she had on '
7.—She then sat on his
knee, kissed him, and asked
him what he thought of a
bottle of wine at 7s. Gd.
1. ‘‘Look here, said the new editor of the Sydney Daily Telegraph to one of his staff, “ since tho
cable parted I m dashed if I know what to fill up with.”
, SU ’ wh ' V .. not barmaids ? It’s the regular thing when news is scarce. If you will say the"
P Ut one ° our . l ’ e pdrter.<i on the job, and give him the moral support of in y f coni pan v," said the)
staff —a nervous, shy, low-spoken man.
f 8. —They did not think much
lot it.
T i-'
I lyuun BA'~J
■; 1 ?. i
0
10.—-They re.turn to the ofaec at last, full of infor-
mation and other things, and between them produce an
article' that “ leaves nothing to be desired ” about private
bars.
ll. —Newsman: “Dead Bird aa
usual,,l suppose, sir ? ”
Customer : “ Not this time ; giva
me the Daily T eeguaph instead.”
'9. —Still pursuing their Investigations they take copious •
notes.: Also copious draughts of amateur-made whisky.
THE INNOCENTS ABROAD—OR, SYDNEY D.T. ON PRIVATE BARS.


PUS£rf-2SD4IfiB
g it. I
rffSu
\
T
jiM kmkwjsw
SABBATARIAN »
-CANT
‘ . o
&
SUNDAY OPENING.
WORKING MAW: IF YOU DON’T OPEN THE DOOR WE’LL HAVE TO BREAK IT OPEN.”
GILLIES: “DON’T ARK ME TO OPEN THE DOOR FOR A CONTINENTAL SUNDAY. WHY NOT STOP AT THE ATHENEÆUM CLUB AND READ
THE STORY OF JONAH AND THE WHALE?”


The SYDNEY DEPOSIT BANK,
I)O—KING STREET-1)0
Established 1885.
Agencies in London and throughout Australia
Overdrafts granted against Deposit of Deeds
and all the usual banking business transacted. '
1 he following are the Dates of Interest allowed
for Fixed Deposits
® ears 9-J per cent.
Months ... 8| per Cent.
I' Months ... ... 7| per cent.
/ d Months 5A per cent.
.i per tent, allowed on daily balance of current account.
, " l the past Four (4) Years a Bonus of One pek
has been paid in addition to the above rates.
,1. , is the first and only Bank in the Colonies
which divides its profits with its depositors.
Communications from the country will be
promptly attended to.
T. S. RICHARDSON,
General Manager
W. H. PALING & COMPANY, LIMITED,
356 George Street, SYDNEY,
JTAVE Just Oi-km;i» a Maynilicont Lot of Wew Pianos
Also of llio wonderful Victor Pianos a/t £45
C E i" l - W- renri S h Lipp, Eonisch. Eluthnor, Collar!,a.,l other.
,Ml Organs. Iso such Variety or Value olsewhere for Cash or Tekms. •
Society
As the Doll s House” is still a theme for
discussion among all who witness the drama, it is
well that people should know that R. S. Smythe
•suggests a very prosaic solution of the difficulty.
Inc author, Henrik Ibsen, is a rabid teetotaller,
f, I rl I niai 11 tains that his object in the
Doll s House ’ was to show what may happen to
a model wife and mother if she goes to a dance
where there are refreshments. In the last act,
a ter the ball, it is evident that both Torvald and
Hr. Rank have drunk too much champagne. The
Much-travelled, who has had a wide experience
the sex, contends that Mrs. Torvald had not
been a total abstainer that evening. This, he
■contends, is the most charitable explanation of
J> ora s delusion in fancying that, after being
married eight years and having three children,
she had been living with “a strange man,” and of
the heartless desertion of her family; and he has
no doubt that next morning, when in her sober
senses, Nora would return to her conjugal and
maternal duties. So that the fizzle with which
fa , )s House ” finishes is simply the result
of fizz ; but Torvald was too drunk to notice it.
According to a similar method of interpretation,
modern commentators have attributed the sudden
conversion of Saul of Tarsus to sunstroke.
* * *
I lie godly syndicate formed to blackmail
the Sydney dailies under an ancient enactment
bearing the name of the most scrofulous of all the
Uuelphs is to be neatly dished.
the nearest aj>proacli to a 1 i;tre lll .Aus-
tralia over saw—barring, perhaps, a certain well-
Icnjwn establishment which flourished in the
palmiest sugar-planting days of Maryborough (Q.)
—was kept some quarter of a century ago by a
JN amqi River identity. He kept some ten black
gms m fairly regal style, dressed in silks and
satins. Sometimes nature asserted itself, and a
dusky damsel would levant for the camp of her
ancestors, but on such occasions no trouble or
expense would be spared, and it is said that as
much as a hundred pounds has been expended in
recapturing a runaway. Harems are not a paying
investment, however, and the owner of the one
under notice, who ought to have died as rich a
man as Tyson, “ pegged out ” not long ago as poor
as a church-mouse.
* * #
In one of his recent reports respecting his
New Guinea exploration, Sir W. Macgregor tells
;’f having seen a chief’s son, aged about 20, “a
leading dandy, and who is tight-laced to such an
extent that he can hardly walk.” Our society
“ menin-stays ” are quite welcome to go to—New
Guinea.
* * #
t( The latest swindle on the board is the
‘‘ education contest.” Every newspaper contains
ads. worded thus:—“Literary contest.—£so
to the winner. Form two words from the letters
beapoup. ’ As many guesses as you like by
letter, N.B.—Send six stamps with each guess.
Competition closes on Ist August. Address
‘Abracadabra, Post-office, Smith-street.” Brown,’
only two removes from an idiot, sees this “ad ”
He’d like to earn £5O badly, and after staring at
the letters for an hour, it suddenly strikes him
with the force of a Nasymth hammer, that “ pea-
soup ” is the only possible solution of the problem.
Then he feels his skull to make sure that he hasn't
shattered his mighty intellect, begins to regret that
hedidn’t take to literary pursuits earlier in life, then
writes with a trembling hand “ pea-soup,” in large
letters on a sheet of foolscap, to which he attaches
six stamps, kisses his wife, hinting darkly at a
turn of luck, &c., and then rushes out to post his
application for the winning cheque. Smith, Jones
and Robinson, witli all the liquor-prohibitionists
and school girls and Y.M.C.A. members in town
do the same, and so many “ pea-soups ”
come pouring into the platter of “Abraca-
dabra” that, seeing that fifty pounds divided
among 1000 successful literary persons would only
run to a bob each, he wisely concludes that the
£5O and the sixpences will receive more intelligent
handling while in his possession than in that of
any of his numerous correspondents who vainly
await “your cheque by return of post.” Then
“Abracadabra” changes his name to “ Philan-
thropist,” seeks a new address and’calls for solu-
tions of the letters “ Chutton-mops ” next week.
• * *
It is understood that Lady Kintore will
give a Calico ball at Government House, on or
about the 16th August, and there will be a recep-
tion to welcome Sir Charles and Lady Halle when
they arrive in Adelaide, on which occasion an
operetta, by Guy Boothby and Cecil Sharp, will
be performed.
* * *
Governor Kintore does not shine as a
host. _ At the dinner-parties which are given
occasionally at Government House, 11. E. only
talks to the lady whom he has taken in, and his
voice is only heard by the other guests when he
rises to drink to “ Her Majesty the Queen.”
* * *
A certain Australian judge went to Eng-
land some time ago suffering from severe illness
the result of overwork. When lie arrived in BuH-
land his state of health became worse than ever
and, having been assured on most eminent medical
authority that it was quite unlikely he would ever
recover, he ante himself down and indited a long
and dismal letter of final farewell to his brother-
judges, in which he said, among other rather
sultry things, that though he could not hope to be
remembered as a great lawyer or as a great judge,
ho hoped to be thought of as one who had always
conscientiously striven to do his duty and had ever
tried to act as a courteous and kindly gentleman
(the fact being that His Honor had always tried
to do the square thing, but had been celebrated for
a darned snappy temper—mainly caused by ill-
health). The Chief Justice got the letter in course
of post, and then handed it to Mr. Justice Vento-
sior, who snorted characteristically and passed it
on to his junior. Byand-bye the body of the
judge came along to Australia, not in a box, but
in the saloon of the mail-steamer. It was in first-
class working-order, and accompanied by its soul.
It now takes its little three meals a day, and that
it may long continue to do so is the sincere wish of
yours truly, for the judge is really not half a bad
sort. However, it will be long ere his 0. J. and
MV. Justice Ventosior cease to chaff their learned
colleague about his last dying speech and confes-
sion. Moral: Never write your own obituary.
* * #
The Domestic Servants’ in Mel-
bourne, goes ahead swimmingly. At a well-
attended meeting last week, resolutions were
passed squeezing the missus tighter, and making
the Going Out more nighter. The Follerer Ques-
tion was satisfactorily settled.
* * *
It was Police-Magistrate Mowbray, of
Charters Towers, who personally conducted Miss
Van 1 assell round the local newspaper offices to
explain that the balloon ascent had been pro-
hibited. Mowbray was always the ideal of polite-
ness. When goldfields warden on the Hodgkin-
son he —or was it his brother (W. M.,
not T. M. Mowbray was the polite man)—
one day civilly married a couple and at the
conclusion of the ceremony he gallantly, and as
ONIONS AND OSCULATION.
SCENE -Edwin and Angelina are
having dinner tête-â-têtec Edwin is
helping Angelina.
EDWIN: "Will you take any onion
sauce, my love?”
ANGELINA: “I will, if you will, but
if you won’t, I won’t.”
(Edwin “will,” and the oseulatory
business, as usual, is the final
“course.”
was his custom, kissed the bride. “ Egad! ”
loudly exclaimed the miner-bridegroom to his wife,
“ I don’t suppose it’s the first time the Commis-
sioner has kissed you, Sarah.” (Great laughter
among the boys.)
* * «
A good deal depends on the way you put a
a thing. How is this, for example, from the
Church Times
On 17th instant, promoted from the Kindergarten of
earth to the High School of Paradise, the sweet soul
of Mary Sophia Horsley, wife of the Rev. J. VV.
Horsley, Holy Trinity, Woolwich.
There is genuine poetry in that little “ ad.” .And
yet the world is full of grovelling wretches who,-
with equally good material to work upon, will go
out and advertise that Ann Smith died owing to
something going wrong with her stomach. Why
is there not more soul in this world?
* * *
As the result of excluding the Bible from
State schools, says a reverend person named Eer-
guson, “Government railways are defrauded,
banks are robbed by absconding clerks, and forged
cheques are issued by educated thieves and
systematic swindlers.” Just so. And yet the
gigantic City of Glasgow Bank swindle was
brought about by a directorate of pious elders,
and the last broken bank in Australia went to
eternal smash through too much Y.M.C.A. in the
management, and two or three clergymen were
bailed up for travelling without tickets the other
day in Melbourne, and a good many people well
up in Scripture seem to have made an unlawful
rise of late. Is there anything in the mere fact
of a man being named Ferguson that is destructive
to his reasoning powers, we wonder?
* * #
One of the burning questions in Northern
ecclesiastical circles again is : May a visiting
clergyman, under any circumstance, decorously
place his hand beneath the arm of a female hos-
pital patient ? One reverend gentleman stoutly
declares that such is possible. The general public,
however, maintain that the doctors don’t require
any professional assistance from the clergy.
» * # '
We read that Mr. A. W. Robertson, of
Mount Morgan fame, who has leased Lord Aber-
deen’s house, 27, Grosvenor-square (alongside the
London mansions of the Duke of Westminster and
Sir Salmon Wilson), “gave a brilliant reception and
concert in celebration of the coming out of his
daughters, the Misses Robertson, at which the
Duke of Edinburgh and a large proportion of the
British peerage were present, while Australians
naturally mustered in great force. The whole
affair was by far the most magnificent and
luxurious that London has seen for several seasons.
Even Colonel North, with all his extravagant dis-
play, has never excelled it. Madame Melba, who
is now in London, and is constituting a great
attraction at the opera, was present, and, we are
told, received the fee of 200 guineas for her trifling
though melodious vocal exertions. Indeed, the
musical part of the entertainment alone absorbed
very nearly £l5OO, while the flowers represented
quite a modest fortune.” The old, old story :
Champagne in a golden bucket in Hingland—
flour in a battered pannikin (and sometimes not
that) in Australia.
* * *
Two alleged ladies, riding astride, have
appeared in Rotten Row. What a lovely sight
would be presented bv a fat woman straddling a
horse !
* * *
Mr. Mortimer Franklyn (with a “ y ”) has
now, we see, a mansion in London, and is
“ generously throwing it open ” for the use of one
society and another. Great heavens ! Mortimer
Franklyn, Esq., representative Australian and
Imperial Federationist, with a London mansion !
“Did you pawn your watch, sir?” asked Turves,
in Melbourne Insolvency Court, “You may say
I pawned it if you like-/ prefer to say
hypothecated, imperturbably replied Mor-
''‘u^“lk yn - a “y,” after cleaning
out the Hentys. We wonder whether Mortimer
±ranklyii, Lsq., is going to “generously throw
open his drawing-room in aid of the trustful and
nuned gentlemen who gave him such a lot of
rope ? We do admire cheek.
* * *
We hear that 14 out of the 17 trustees of
Melbourne Public Library are in favour of open-
ing the institution on Sunday. Meanwhile, the em-
d'Hmuied up, stirred to rebellion,
tn lobd the trustees had the audacity to open the
1 icture Gallery for six Sundays, and though the
attendance was enormous, they had to cave in.
fi Is ’a xi ar x t - ington on tliat occasion mopped back
the ixtltiutic.
■* * *
A Government House man went for a
day s shooting on a N.S. Wales run lately. He
returned with one bird—a goose which had strayed
away from the homestead.
* * #
The latest fashionable luxury is New
Zealand whitebait.
* * *
Judge Denniston, of N.Z., lately refused
his discharge to a workman, who had gone broke
in a humble way for £5O, on the ground that the
bankrupt was still in possession of “ the only asset
lie ever had-his labour.” Yet the insolvent
mining boon: man, whose only asset was the loan
of somebody else’s name on the, back of a bill and
a boundless poufer of tying, is allowed to retain
these properties and start afresh ; and the busted
doctor, who started business with a great stock of
ignorance and a bottle of ointment with’a Hy in
it, seems to get through all right; and the-de-
famtmg lawyer gets his discharge, and retains the
on y assets he ever had-a capacity for cursing a
witness all the way to the bottomless pit and back
again, and for making off with the trust-money in
between times. There seem« tu be a discrepancy
somewhere.
* * *
At a recent swell marriage in Paris the
Pope’s blessing for the bridal brace was put in the
form of a telegram which a priest brought to the
officiating Nuncio upon a silver salver. Where-
upon the Nuncio read the sacred “wire,” just as
though he were surprised to see it, and the bride’s
mamma went into the vestry and anted up ten
thousand francs for the glad tidings. Now The
Bulletin will telegraph its blessing to any
newly-married pair for a year’s subscription, paid
in advance,
* * *
Cairns editors are now threatened with
thrashings if they publish the names of drunks.
Cairns must be getting civilised. When we were
in Cairns people were proud of being drunk.
# s* *
A certain high and autocratic official of
the South Australian -ailways went on a trip the
other day, in an unofficial capacity, with a mining
commission. During the trip the members of the
commission were entertained at one of the stop-
ping-places, and the C/ar of the railways had to
reply to the visitors. Just as he was informing
the people how proud he felt to be able to speak
in an unofficial capacity the first occasion he had
done so-a child interrupted the speech by calling
out “Papa! Papal A general smile resulted,
noticing which, the speaker remarked. “ I assure
you. gentlemen, this is the first time I’ve ever bet n
in the district.”
* * *
I wo parsons in Adelaide wore discussing
the recent accident on the Port line, which vat
caused by a bull straying on the rails. One of tin
divines asked his friend why the cow-catcher had
not worked properly, and the other replied
because it was a bull.”
* » *
A Melbourne Jew lias committed the
miserable error of trying to sell a brass ring as
IS carat gold—to another Hebrew. The ancient
race must be deteriorating.
* * ♦
Down at Collingwood tMelb.), last week, a
matron pushed her way into a crowded drapery
“fair,” and increased the population forthwith.
What’s the next article, please ?
* # #
Please don’t laugh—Mrs. Grundy is white-
washmgauctioneer-parson Kinsman, becausehe has
so lessened illegitimacy in Pitzroy. “ And let me
die a good old man,” as King Dick says. A
widower rushed to the man of kin. “ Any chil-
dren?” asked he. “No,” replied the would-be
Benedict; “but if you make us one I will have
seven to-morrow.”
* * #
An experienced hand was sent as a reporter
to the Melbourne Medical Association, there
being some culinary subject on. He saw a quan-
tity of preserved meat, on willow-pattern plates
upon a sideboard, and the experienced rubbed his
hands—supper coming off probably. Presently a
doctor pointed to the meat, saying that it was"an
interesting collection of abnormal livers, taken
from human subjects.
* * *
The Victorian Volunteer force are prac-
tising at a “disappearing target.” Perhaps after
a few years of this they may grow proficient
enough to bring down the disappearing bank-
manager, who is so common in these parts. We
don’t know any more fleeting and volatile target
than he is.
# # #
An Auckland (N.Z.) telegraph-operator
has filed his schedule, the reason of the disaster
being that he was “induced to endorse bills for
his stepfather. Any person who is on the verge
of going security for his mother-in-law, or who
thinks of lending a large sum to his deceased
wife s sister, may take warning by this unhappy
incident. J
* * *
Mary Ann King, a Melbourne lady, who
holds a half-share in a gentleman now under ar-
rest for bigamy, stated in her evidence that she
advertised for a kindred soul, and received 32
applications for the situation. She selected the
defendant as the most promising of the lot, from
which we would assume that the other 31 must
have been a gallows-looking crowd, with homicide
and incendiarism and abandonment of helpless
infants written large on their beetle brows. The
police-force had a long and exciting chase after
Mary s husband, and he was trapped at last
through making an appointment with that injured
lady. Even then it seems he had time to bang
Mary Ann about very considerably before the
detective jumped on him and wrenched him off
and if that official had been a moment later there
would probably have been an utterly ruined Ann
lying on the ground, and the case would have
assumed a new aspect. The great law that man
must either bust or advertise evidently fails to
apply to a lone woman in search of a husband
She advertises first and busts afterwards.
* * *
Out of 562 heroines in last year’s novels
372 were blondes and only 190 brunettes. Six of
them died of consumption, and eleven of other
complaints of the chest, but on the whole they
were a healthier lot than previous crops. Not
EPITAPH.
Where ways are dark and tricks are vain
He walked with steady steps and brave,
Esteeming honour more than gain—
A. gambler who was ne’er a knave.
Upon his stone no pen could write
A better epitaph than “ White.”


ƒ
Watches and Jewellery are like good wives—they are
worth having.
4r.d for Illustrated Price List. Post Free.
Hi :i GEORGE STREET, S YDNEY
(Nearly opposite Railway Station).
Factories: Livriu'OOL and London, England.
-rr
£2 10s. English Lever, Two Years’ Guaranteed.
CO 10s. English Lever, “The Unequalled,” full cap.
£4 English Lever, “ The Special,” compensated.
20/- The Unequalled Keyless Watch. 20/-
Countvy Residents and Visitors to Sydney call or send
(o A. SAUNDERS, 813 George Street (nearly opposite
Railway Station), SYDNEY.
Use Batho's Baking Powder.
Bona-Eide announcement; Highest cash price
given for all kinds of gent's left off clothing.
Dress-suits for sale or hire. Letters promptly
attended to by QUITTENTON BROS., 11l
Russell street, MELBOURNE. [New number,
163.)
The Choicest Jewellery. Daiiws& Co., King-st. Arcade.
Use Batho'-S Baking Powder.
A BOON TO HUMANITY.
’Tia food for young and food for old,
It gives new life and vital power,
There’s nothing in the market sold
Like Lkmell's patent Snow-white Flock.
WHIT iron SHOBX.D BSE
Scott’s Emulsion
ofOoc! wiia
HYPO PHOSPHITES.
It is used and endorsed by Physi-
cians because it is the best ,
It is Palatable as Milk.
It is three times as efficacious as plain
God Liver Oil.
It is far superior to all other so-called
Emulsions.
It is a perfect Emulsion, does not sepa-
rate or change.
It is wonderful as a flesh producer.
It is the best remedy for Consumption,
Scrofula, Bronchitis, Wasting Dis-
eases, Chrome Goughs and Colds.
Sold by all Chemists .
SCOTT & BOWNE, New York.
ROBERTSON’S WHISKY,
£2OO- PRIZES.
GIVEN AWAY IN THE COLONIES
as follows:
16 of £5 each, 25 £2, and 70 *l,
from the Agents, ALLT & CO., CHARLOTTE PLACE, SYDN
EY
one out of the whole 502 perished from lumbago,
(rout enlarged liver, glanders, drink, spontaneous
combustion, dog-bite, or lightning; and all who
wex-e extinguished in the course of the story
offered some profound observations on their death-
ly Jt ] s barring one, who was finished off through a
Louse falling on her and hadn’t time to compose
anything deep or interesting. Thirty-four dis-
appeared mysteriously, but thirty of these left a
note on the-dressing-table which explained every-
tiijjj.r. Nearly 400 lovex-s stood outside the house
ac iTight to see their best girl’s shadow on the
blind, and in every case the shadow turned up in
due course; but 102 of these lovers were after*
wards betrayed. They all returned the girl’s
letters except three—two of them said they would
have r-r-revenge, one was run over by a locomo-
tive seven took to di’ink, three were supposed t x
be the skeleton which was afterwards found in
different places, and one went to the bad and
lived on a small allowance from his aunt.
Most of the others were never heard of again.
Three heroines were murdered in the course of
the year; one by a foreign nobleman with a large
diamond in his shirt-front, one by a person who
laid drain-pipes in the stx-eets, and the other by a
military officer who x-epented afterwards. Only
one girl was f° un d by a travelling curate on a
desert island ; she was shoeless and dressed chiefly
in leaves, and she wasn’t the gild the curate was
looking for, but he helped her to put her hair
straight, and taught her to wash herself at the
sink, and they lived happily ever afterwards. A
cisiisiderable falling off in villains is reported, and
excepting a single individual who sent his father a
poisonous serpent in a box in the hope that he
would succeed to the property, and another who
bagged the old man while they were out shooting,
there was no originality about them. A few very
common elopements, and a dead body that was
found standing up in the corner of a cellar arc the
only other incidents worth mentioning.
# # #
A dogs’ -tea-party is the last bloated in-
sanity from the United States. It was first
introduced by the American Pet Dog Club, or the
Overfed Pigs’ Association, or some similar body,
and is fast becoming popular-. Cards of invitation
are sent round to the dogs, care of their owners,
and some fashionable idiot disguised as a female
comes to chapel-one each canine. Turkey-bones,
coffee, and ice-cream are served on hassocks, and a
Japanese napkin is attached to every beast’s
oollai’. After the meal is over rose-coloured
fin°-er-bowls, filled with scented water, are handed
round, and the dogs are expected to dabble their
paws in them, with their mistresses’ assistance.
The wealthy American lady of to-day is generally
either dry-nurse and foot-washer to an expensive
mongrel, or else she is a female-doctor, and
refreshes herself by dissecting legs and arms and
disembowelling corpses; or, if she is neither of
these, she is a professor, and goes about lecturing
olx colic and entrails. Is our civilisation a failure ?
We rather think it is.
Dear Bulletin, — I met a well-known
amateur.poet the other day—suburban-paper poet,
you know—and he asked me, says lie, "What do
you think of this little effort of mine?” I read it.
“ The metre is jerky,” says I; “and, by the way,
your s always is.” “ Well, yoxi see, I can’t help it,
under the circumstances.” “How's that?”
“ Well, you know, we can’t afford fires, and, as
night is my time of inspiration, during this beastly
cold weather I’m obliged to compose all my poetxy
in bed.” “ What’s that got to do with the jerki-
ness of the metre?” “Do? All to do! The
wife’s d foghorn erratic snoring governs the
rhythm /’’—Yours, The Dipsomaniac.
The new Lady Weymouth, lately presented
at Court by her aunt, the Countess of Dudley, the
loveliest member of the lovely Moncreiff family,
is the daughter of Viciet Mordaunt, and the cir-
cumstances of her birth in 1870 made it impossible
that Sir Charles Mordaunt could be her father,
while the confession of her mother distributed the
paternal responsibility among three rakish persons
Sir Frederick Johnstone, Viscount Cole, and
the present Prince of Wales. “ Tummy ” after-
wards denied in court having had any finger in the
pie by simply saying “ No ” in reply to the briefly-
worded question of a barrister. Any other man
would have been subjected to cross-examination—
how delicious it would have been to see Tummy
put through his facings by a Purves! —and
there is little doubt that everyone in court
stood up, or that the judge removed his wig while
His Mightiness briefly occupied the witness-box.
Sir Charles obtained his divorce; Cole and John-
stone being pronounced particeps crirninis, and he
afterwards refused to see the little girl who
legally bore his name, and she was adopted by her
mother’s sister, the Countess of Dudley. Though
almost blind at her birth (her infirmity was
brought as evidence against the debauchees who
had taken advantage of her mother’s weakness
and Mox-daunt’s absence in Norway), she ulti-
mately gained perfect vision, and became such a
peerless beauty that she was, although dowexless,
the rage of last season, and speedily captivated
Weymouth, the heir of the wealthy Earl
of Bath, who refused a short lime ago
the hand of Princess Mary—now bride-elect
of Prince Edward of Wales —for his son, on the
ground that the Marquis of Bath could never con-
sent to appear in a social rank subordinate to that
of Ins wife, as in, for instance, the cases of the
the Duke of Fife and the Marquis of Lome. Hex-
mother, Violet Moncreiff, lives almost entirely in
Paris, and is now known to be a confirmed morpho-
iiianiao.
Roundabout.
Now that pretty nearly every third man in
gy dne y a solicitor, it would be really interesting
to know w hat the younger members of the profes-
sion live upon. As a rule, the legal infant is a
m y S t er y. There is generally a ticket on his door
stating that he will be back in ten minutes, but the
ticket ' is mo s t l y a whited sepulchre and a vain
tiling, for he seldom appears till the ensuing morn-
j or the mid dle of next week. Then he sits in
his di office, the rent of which is a chronic
bad and aits for an hour or so in hope s
that a plaintiff or a defendant may turn up ; and
about olnce 0 l nce in a month or more an excited old
woman drops in with a mildewed umbrella, and
tells bim ar [ inooherent narrative about a neigh-
bour named Mary j an6) who feloniously capsizes
her ash-barrel, and who lives, in a disrespectful
inanner that ought to be put down, up two pairs
of BtairB> and is f a deceitful character in an un-
specified sort of way, and who is believed to have
said somet hing that the plaintiff didn’t hear dis-
tinot]y> in consequence of which the plaintiff
wants the solicitor to recover an enormous sum in
damages, and pay himself out of the proceeds,
When ° his clien £ has left the lawyer is generally in
sucb au exhausted state that he puts a ticket
on b ; 8 door stating that he will be back
in ten minuteB a ° d , then goes out and
backs a horse, and plays billiards all the
rest of the day. The natural result of this
negleot is that he misses an important appoint-
ment with a man who wants him to defend a
drunk and take his bill at three months, and a
olient who dropped in to get out of the rain goes
away CU rsing. About the middle of next week a
stranger probably calls round —or more probably
be does no t call round—to ask him how much he
/ wiu obarge to perjure himself in an action for the
WHERE HE WENT TO.
SANCTIMONIOUS BUT EARNEST PREACHER (to Sunday-school class): “NEXT
DAY HE HELPED HIS MOTHER LIKE A GOOD LITTLE BOY, AND
THEN WENT OUT TO PLAY AND W S DROWNED IN A WATER-
HOLE. NOW, MY DEAR YOUNG FRIENDS, WHERE DID THAT
GOOD CHILD GO TO?”
BILLY NOBBS (from Big Scrub): “HE WENT TO THE BOTTOM, SIR.”
recovery of an umbrella, but finding a notice on
the door stating that the owner of the office will
be back in ten minutes, he also drifts away, and
the business for the rest of the month is limited to
a call from a person who wants an impossible a l ibi
in an assault case, where six policemen dragged him
off the top of the complainant, and are all pre-
pared to swear to him, and who also wants to
know if cutting off the entail will be any good in
such a case. If an agriculturist with one eye
drops in and tries to raise a second mortgage on a
swamp with a defective title and a dead alligator
in it there is a feeling of unexpected prosperity in
the office, and in his exuberance the solicitor pro-
bably puts a notice on the door stating that he
will be back in ten minutes, and goes out to have
a drink, and fox-gets to return for 48 hours. Still,
if he is an able and energetic individual he may
ultimately get a job from a woman who wants to
shove her father in a lunatic asylum and take
possession of the paternal public-house ; or he may
be engaged to see something that didn’t happen,
or to prove some circumstance that didn’t take
place, for the benefit of a man who is tired of the
barmaid he married and wants to get rid of her ;
or someone may even deposit some title-deeds with
him, which he can mortgage to the bank and live
on the proceeds, and then, when the owner wants
the securities back, he probably packs his bag, and
lints a xxotice on the door stating that ho will be
back in ten seconds, and takes the well-trodden
road to Chili or Japan, leaving his last client to
mourn the loss of the bad debt be hired him to
collect, axxdto look in vain for the deposit he paid
on a brick house which he sold to four different
persons.
# * *
The United States census conies off this
year, and among the other questions in the census
paper the citizen is requested to state frankly
whether he is blind, maimed, crippled, paralysed,
or short of any of his senses, whether he is insane
or diseased, and whether he is a convict, a home-
less child, or a pauper. Also he is expected to
mention if his property is mortgaged and several
other things. And further, it is provided that if
he declines to supply information on any of these
subjects the census-taker may fill up the deficiency
by facta gathered in the neighbourhood —in other
words, he is authorised- to ask the woman next
door. Anybody who.fully understands the in-
grained malignity—-the base vulgarity—the whole-
souled meanness of the female in the next house
may form the first beginnings of a rudimentary
idea of the horrors concealed, in that last proviso.
After an experience’extending over 30 years and
covering the four quarters of the globe we have
come to the conclusion that there are few low
and degraded things that the woman next door is
not capable of. She is a person of grovelling in-
stincts and bad manners, and she throws her rub-
bish oyer the fence. She has eleven children, and
she spanks them all with a board in the back
yard. She is ignorant and soulless, and has no
poetry in her composition, and she spends most of
her existence in banging doors and slamming
dishes about. Nothing that we know of has done
more to demoralise society and to bring humanity
down to the level of the lower animals than the
baleful influence of the person next door, and the
further continuance of the female on the adjacent
premises is a menace to human progress which
ought to be abolished by law. Whether Hie is
naturally objectionable, or whether she begins to
degenerate, through the operation of some obscure
law of nature, on the day when she moves into
the adjoining house, are points that have never-
been determined, but experience has proved that
the individual in the contiguous residence is one
of the most conspicuous.blights on our civilisation,
and if she is not suppressed by prompt legislation
the time must come when the masses will rise
unanimously and demand her abolition. Man is
only a temporary institution at the best. He is
composed chiefly of hair, drink, bad grammar,
tobacco-smoke, indignation and swear-words, and,
being built of these fleeting and transient materials,
he has not time to wait till the woman next door
dies out in the ordinary process of nature. There-
fore, he will certainly erect himself on his own legs
sooner or later, to promote her downfall; and now
that the law allows her to fill in his census-paper
for him, and describe him as a person of defective
intellect, and put him down as ■ a pauper and a
Chinaman, a howl will go up to the listen'ng
heavens and a voice will be heard crying for the
abolition of the feminine obstruction in the adjoin-
ing premises, and the woman next door will be
wiped out by the burning wrath of an outraged
nation.
# # *
Manvoocl, the deceased hangman, who now
dwells serenely on the Evei’green Shore, died
insolvent. His professional instincts were too
much for him, and he went broke in his declining
years over a speculation in hemp. When a man
is so much eaten up. by his trade as that he is
always liable to come to a bad end. A respectable
and honourable hangman, as a rule, keeps clear of
the “shop” except when-he is actually hanging,
and seeks rather to cultivate the harmless dicky-
bird or to grow the refreshing violet, and to find
his dolighf.hr the simple Works Of nature. If any
one happens by chance to come across a stranger
lost in profound admiration of an unpretentious
herb he is three times more likely to be a hang-
man than a poet, and it is a dead certainty that
he isn’t a printer; and on the other hand if you
chance to observe a person in a plain black suit
who floors eight coal-heavers in succession the
probabilities are that he is either a curate or an
undertaker far gone in consumption. The hang-
man is generally Understood to be a good husband
and father, though in his affection for children he
is probably inferior to the old stoker of the In-
quisitiou, and regarded as a pleasant, gentlemanly
companion in private life he falls behind the
person who used to earn an honest livelihood by
pouring the boiling lead over the heretic. In pro-
found knowledge, too, he cannot compare with
the Chinese philosopher who bamboos the witness
and hangs him up by the hair in order to make
hjm speak the truth, but then this individual is
generally a university graduate and has devoted
all his early years to literature ; but, on the whole,,
the British hangman is a person of a peaceful turn
of mind, and when he sits in his cottage in'the
evening and sings a pleasant little hymn to hiin-
seif the local clergyman appears a low, ordinary,,
worldly individual by comparison. Only the
hangman, as a rule, is not a successful business;
man, and when he speculates in hemp in his old
age the results are apt to be bad for his creditors,,
and he has to be buried by the parish. Marwoods;
only asset when he died was a bad debt for hang-
ffig two assassins in Dublin, a circumstance which
shows clearly that all executions should take place
ou a cash basis with a discount of 2i ner cent, and
that a bill at three months should! be promptly
rejected unless there are two good names on tin;'
back.
A big Melbourne hotel-speculator bar?
come to an arrangement with his creditors, and
remains for the present in the position of manager.
A fair, beautiful skin.— Sulpho&ne Soap
gives the natural tint and peach-like bloom of an
perfect complexion ; makes the skin smooth,
supple, healthy, comfortable, (id. tablets. Every-
where.
At a recent British military funeral am
officer’s horse became restive and threw its rider,,
who fell on the ground upon his sword, which was,
sheathed at the time, and bent it considerably.
Ere remounting, the officer, to the amusement of
the spectators, bent his sword, scabbard and a 11,,,
straight again, across his knee.
Thus a Celtic orator denouncing Orangeism
and Protestantism generally at a street corner in
a N.S.W. western city on 12th of July
The first Caterlic emperor of Rome was Alfred the
Great, and the Pope thought such a lot of him and he
thought such a lot about the Pope, that he guv him Rome
and wint himsilf to live at Constantinople, an’ ivirything
wint on well thin till Luther wint in it wid his dhirty
doctrines, and from that out th’ hand o’ God turned agin
thim, an’ they niver found until the Turks come in on
top o’ them an’ massaoryed th’ whole o’ thiro.
Which the name of the Herodotus aforesaid ia
Lynch.
Terrible bungling is expected as a result
of Attorney-General Wri.xon’s Machiavellian
action in taking Madden’s opinion against
Purves’s, as to trie validity of the second charge
(manipulating shares) against the Premier Per-
manent directors. Purves is fuming, and Wrixon
replies that he’ll do as he likes, and consult whom
he likes; Purves and his junior's in the case were,
at latest advices, drawing up a “ round robin " to
Wrixon. Madden appeared for director- Gourlay
at first, and now his opinion is asked on a charge
against his client ! Purves, with his hair on end*,
declares that if Liquidator Templeton goes on
with the case, he can do so “ fornix.” Templeton
smells an action for malicious prosecution as the
end of this characteristic Melbourne mess.
Mr. “Tommy” Dangar, M.P. (N.S.W.),
who died the other day, was very fond of a prac-
tical joke. lie was. once out with a mustering
party which included a new-ehnm jaekeroo, whir
fancied that he couldn’t possibly be “ had.” They
were camped alongside a creek running about
breast-high, and the Britisher was taking a nap
‘ inside the tent when he heard a big hullabaloo,
and, rushing out, saw on the other side of the
creek Mr. Dangar, with upraised axe, standing
over a man whose head and body were bathed in.
gore. Johnny from England, ignoring the fallen
tree a bit further down the creek, dashed through
the water, in horrified tones begging Dangar to
desist, and it was not till A loud guffaw from the
people in hiding was heard that the poor jaekeroo
knew that he had soaked his only decent togs
for nought. The man on the ground had been
most artistically painted with red gum.


A pure spirit—Wolfe’s Schnapps.
Melbourne Daily Telegraph asserted that in
their late match Sculler Kerr weighed 12st.; Bubear, list.
81b. The Aon asserts that their weights were list, and
list. 10]b. respectively, thus making the Englishman two
pounds heavier and Kerr a stone lighter than did its con-
temporary.
Wolfe’s Schnapps will make you a new man.
To cure skin diseases.—Sulpholine Lotion
drives away all eruptions, pimples, blotches, red-
ness, eczema, acne, disfigurements, roughness and
scurf, leaving a clear, spotless skin. Sold every-
where.
Wolfe’s Schnapps—look for £1 orders.
Energy will do almost anything, but it cannot
exist if the blood is impure and moves sluggishly
in the veins. There is nothing so good for cleans-
ing the blood and imparting energy to the system
as Ayer’s Sarsaparilla.
I ! se Batho’s Baking Powder.
The Professional and Literary men of London
give their preference to Esterbrook’s “ Relief ’•
Pen. It is a swift and easy writer, and preserves
the characteristics of the hand. Samples free at
all Stationers.
Ladies’ Silver Watches, 355. Dahms & Co., King-street
Arcade.
Miscellaneous.
Tla* licitisli and Sfen South Wales Investment
and Financial l’o„ Limited.
Incorporated under the Companies’ Act, 1874.
Capital, £250,000.
Sydney Office: 246 PITT STREET.
"DILLS DISCOUNTED and Immediate Advances granted
A > Daily. Country communications promptly attended
to. The following Rates of Interest are allowed for Fixed
Deposits:—
3 Years
12 Months
0 Months
3 Months
10 per cent.
9 per cent.
S per cent.
7 per cent.
With a Guaranteed Bonus on Renewals of Twelve Months
and over.
By order of the Board.
W. M‘DONALD, Manager.
PROBLEM OF TO-DAY -WHERE CAN WE GET GOOD
BOOTS ?—SOLVED AT LAST.
E. FR3EJ3STCH
{The French of years ago)
Can supply Residents here with Boots better made than
ever. Boots that must wear well and give satisfaction.
Send your orders then to 82 Oxford Street, and be sure
to enclose Sizes and Remittance, when your parcel will be
sent at once by Post, Rail, or Steamer.
Notice Prices for Boots that look well, wear well
and fit well.
Children’s Elastic-sides, 2/-, 2/11, 3/0, 4/-, 4/6, etc. 1
Men’s & Youths’ <!itto, 5/6, 6/-, 6/6, 7/6, 8/6, etc. /
Best
Boots
Jen’s & Boys’ Bluchers, 2/11, 4/-, 5/-, 6/-, best ever made.
A Line of Stylish Laced Boots for Best Wear
(Boys’, Youths’ and Men’s Sizes).
W ENGLISH BOOTS for LADIES, CHILDREN, etc.,
Sent as ordered. Lowest Price.
Satisfaction given or Money Returned.
Note the Address :
ECLIPSE BOOT CO.,
82 Oxford Street, SI DNEY.
E. French, Manager.
THE BALLARAT COFFEE PALACE,
Lydiard Street, Ballarat.
VISITORS to the Golden City will find every
- convenience at the above Establishment.
The Only Coffee Palace in Ballarat.
MODERATE CHARGES.
REID & SONS
Proprietors.
DRim
. ■ a
•MM
in nit'
ili 1
j titiP
HAMPK
i-HAMPA
i
UNA
ORAN
Sole Agents:
HOWELL & JOSKE,
Wine and Spirit Merchants,
10l QTJZEIEIsr STREET.
MELBOURNE.
FREE BY POST for six penny Stamps, a
. Medical Treatise by that eminent French
Physmian and Parisian Specialist, Dr.
KAJJUNSKI, showing sufferers how they mav
cure themselves of Nervous Debility, Lost Vitality
&c., «Sco., without consulting a medical man Ad-
dress : “Parisian,” P.O. Box 766, Sydney,
SHRAGEff
V
al
nk
S’ciENTtnc
instrument maker
19 MACQUARIE PLACE (Opposite Exchange),
N onf B. 'W. BI SHELL is not authorised
to represent 1 he Bulletin in any way.
NOTICE to Agents, Subscribers and others
m JSew Zealand.—Mr. J. V. HOURIGAN
is the only authorised Travelling Representative
for The Bulletin.
Companies.
Australian Mutual Provident
SOCIETY.
ESTABLISHED ... ... 1849.
Head Office: 87 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Directors :
Thomas Littlejohn, Esq., Chairman.
J. T. Walker, Esq., Deputy-Chairman,
Joseph Abbott, Esq., M.L.A.
J. P. Abbott, Esq., M.L.A.
R- J. King, Esq., M.L.A.
A. W. Meeks, Esq.
Jas. Thomson, Esq,
RESULTS shown in the 41st Annual Report : —
AMOUNT ASSURED, including Bonuses
£37,878,271.
Accumulated Funds, NINE MILLIONS
STERLING, being equal to 102'5 pei
cent, of the total premiums received on
Policies now in force—a state of things
unequalled in any similar institution in
the world.
PROFIT DIVIDED, for the single year
1889, £426,494, being equal to 41 5 per
cent, of the premiums received during the
year on Participating Policies.
THE RATE OF INTEREST realised on
the Funds during the year 1889 was over
SIX PER CENT.
THE EXPENSES during the year were only
9*5 per cent, of the Total Receipts.
The Only Australasian Life Office
WHICH GIVES
UfV A BONUS EVERY YEAR, 'fri
RICHARD TEECE, Secretary.
THE
Australian Banking Company,
LIMITED.
PITT and MARKET STREETS, SYDNEY,
Incorporated under the Companies Act, IS?/,.
Authorised Capital, £500,000. in 100,000 Shares of £5 each.
Subscribed Capital, £150,000; Paid-up, 100,000.
FRANCIS ABIGAIL, M.L.A.,
Chairman of the Board of Directors.
A Branch of the Bank has been opened at Goulburn
under the management of C. H. Atkinson, Esq. (lately
Branch Manager of the Bank of New South Wales) for the
transaction of General Banking Business.
The Bank has paid its Shareholders a dividend of 10 per
cent, every half-year since its formation.
The Bank transacts all usual banking business in every
particular.
Special advantages granted to Commercial Clients.
Overdrafts granted against deposit of Deeds.
THE HIGHEST RATES OF INTEREST GIVEN FOR
FIXED DEPOSITS.
The Share Register is now open for the allotment of
Shares—New Issue.
By order of the Board of Directors.
RODERICK M'NAMARA, Manager.
Forms of application for Shares may be obtained at the
Bank.
The Australian Mercantile Loan and
Guarantee Co. (Limited).
Head Office :
CORNER MARKET and PITT STREETS
SYDNEY.
Melbourne—2B3 Collins-street East.
Brisbane—Corner Edward and Elizabeth Streets.
Newcastle—37 Hunter-street.
SPECIAL NOTICE.
The London Offices of the Company are now
open for the transaction of business, situate at
No. 110 Canon Street, E.C. .
The Company grant immediate advances upon
approved securities, for fixed terms, or repayable
by instalments.
Interest Allowed on Deposits:
3 months ... 6 per cent.
” 7 »
12 n 8 „
A. MILLER ... General Manager.
Citizens’ Life Assurance Company,
LIMITED.
Capital A 200,000.
Head Office;
,21 Castleieagh St, Sydney,
With Branches and Agencies throughout the Colonies.
HXTe
There
w Business:
were issued 19,557 Policies.
1887
|S*£ ” >• •• 34,084
r , I88!> . » .. ~ 67,322 „
These figures show the wonderful progress of the
Company and the high esteem placed upon its
liberal dealings by the public.
CLAIMS PAID
Immediately on Proof of Death
•JAMES P. OARVAN.I
WM. ALEX. SMITH, f
Managing Director.
Secretary.
|_ADIES
f
TANSY PI 1.1,8 are better than
Steel, 1 onnyrojal, or Krcot. Cures
obstructions from whotefer cause
Nerer fails. No Pills or Powder,
like them. Particulars free.
W. PARKER, P.O. BOX 598, SYDNEY.
Amusements.
|£ER MAJESTY’S THEATRE.
Lessee and Manager Mr. Geo. Rignold.
Doors open at 7 ; commencing 8. Carriages at 10.30.
IMMENSE SUCCESS! IMMENSE SUCCESS!
of the Entirely New and Original Play,
AXeg or the Castaway.
MEG (a Street Waif) .. Miss MAGGIE MOORE.
Box Office at Theatre from 10 to 5. Prices as usual.
J. P. Macdonald, Acting-Manager.
{CRITERION THEATRE.
Under the Management of Messrs. Brough and Boucioault.
Acting Manager ... Mr. H, J. Magee.
LAST 2 NIGHTS! LAST 2 NIGHTS '
of
MI S S JAN E T A C Hl7 R C 11,
in Henrik Ibsen’s Celebrated Play,
Ct DOLL’S IH7 OIJS ZED.”
Produced 'under the sole direction of
Mr. (ding. <'luirrinr/ion.
SATURDAY, JULY 26, “FROU-FROU.”
Prices—ss, 3s, 2s and Is. Box Plan at Nicholson’s.
Business Manager for Mr. Chas. Charrington,
1 W. H, -MANNING.
]g O N D I AQUARIUM.
The Most Popular
PICNIC and PLEASURE GROUNDS OP AUSTRALIA.
The Famous Switchback Railway, conveying
Passengers from Cliff to Cliff daily.
Splendid Asphalt Open-Air Skating-Rink Free to'Visitors.
Open Daily from 10 a.in to 10 p.m.
Admission, Is.; Children, (id. Trams to Gate—Fare, Id
Theatre royal.
Lessee Mr. S. Lazar.
Sub Lessees, Messrs. Williamson, Garner and Musgrove.
Treasurer Mr. Geo. L. Goodman,
EVERY EVENING! EVERY EVENING!
The Nellie Stewart Opera company
in
“PAUL JOKTES.”
Prices of Admission—ss., 3s. and ONE SHILLING
The Battle of Gettysburg.
Just added. New and Wonderful Effectsßugle Calls
Cannonading, Musketry Firing. Military Band every After
noon and Evening. The Battlefield bv Night: Gathering
up the wounded in the gloom of night. The Dead March!
The Storm: Thunder, Lightning, Rain. Special effects,
3 and 8 p.m. No matter if you have seen the Cvclorama
before, come again and see the wonderful effects. Bring
the children.
LECTURES HOURLY. OPEN DAILY, 10 to 10.
ONLY A SHILLING NOW!
Children Half-Trice.
GRANDEST SIGHT IN AUSTRALIA.
NO
DON’T
WASTE
IT
You Will most certainly save Money,
Time, and Anxiety by placing all your
Advertising in our
hands.
Write
to
P. T. WIMBLE & CO.,
Advertising Experts,
369 to 373 George St., Syd. Send for Pamphlet
“ How to advertise and why ? ” 11th Edition.
Prospectus.
O SHEARERS, STATION HANDS,
FARM HANDS, LABOURERS, ROUST-
ABOUTS, AND BUSHMEN GENERALLY
OF ALL COLONIES.
The Land, Trade,
• —AND—
Labour Union of Australia*
Has been established. Its objects are :
L To unite all the above classes in one body, but
with respect to shearers it is intended to apply
to them as station hands, which very many of
them often arc.
2. To raise wages, to obtain better tucker, and
men’s huts being supplied.
3. Generally to advocate the interests of its mem-
bers. The strength of the Union will during
next general shearing be put forth in support
of the above objects. That the Union is a
fighting one and bona fide is proved in the
strike against Messrs. Chaffey Bros., Limited.
Men, come and join us ! Though only lately
started we have proved the metal we are made
of, as the public are aware from the late
reports in the Press.
Entrance Fee and Annual Subscription, ss.
A Strong and Honest Committee of Management
are at the head of affairs.
Committee of Management: —Chairman, Thomas Allen;
Vice-Chairman, James Laverty; Messrs. Kelly, Davis,
Constance, Hood, Saunders, Curwood, Black, Meldrum,
Thompson, Salsbury, Allen, Fears, and Walton. Trea
surers: Messrs. M'Oleod, Mills, and Wilcock. Trustees:
Not yet appointed. Auditors: Messrs. Yule (of Williams
and Yule, Storekeepers), and Fred. Fleetwood, Land
Agent and Accountant. Bankers: The National Bank of
Australasia.
WE HAVE MONEY AND GRIT.
After this year both the entrance fee and
annual subscription will be largely increased,
but members joining now it is expected will only
hereafter have to pay the annual subscription of
2s. 6d., as they will have the fighting to do at the
first start off.
Prospectus, Members’ List, Tickets, etc., upon
application to the undersigned, by letter or
personally.
Post Office Orders to be made payable to—
ARTHUR TREYMAYNE,
Secretary and Manager,
Offices. Langtree Avenue Hall,
Mildura, Victoria.
Agents in different towns, at sheds, and travel-
ling, will be at once appointed. Business people
in all districts required to act as agents on usual
terms of commission. Apply with references as
above.
Furniture, &c.
and lamb.
FURNITURE and PIANOFORTE
WAREHOUSEMEN,
CABINETMAKERS, UPHOLSTERERS
AND
BEDDING MANUFACTURERS.
SHOW ROOMS AND MANUFACTORY:
SPRING AND O’CONNELL STREETS
EASY CHAIRS, for Parlour, Library, or Bed*
rooms, new designs, covered to order, in
any material.
PIANOFORTES, by R. LIPP and SOHN,
•k- t ®UBELD anc | other Celebrated
makers at WHOLESALE PRICES. Newton
and Lamb.
B
AGATELLE BOARDS, Portable, various
sizes.
BEDROOM SUITES, complete, in various
x s ’, and ver 7 handsome designs, with
i feet Wardrobes, or with smaller Wardrobes for
single rooms. Great variety.
NEWTON and LAMB,
■ Fl !™* ure Warehousemen,
SPRING AND O’CONNELL STREETS.
BEDROOM SUITES, fashionable early
English designs—Wardrobe 4 feet, with
silvered plate-glass door : Washstand, with marble
top and tile back, Towel Rail; Toilet Table
with Sivmg Glass attached; and Two Cane-
Seated Chairs, 14 guineas.
NEWTON & LAMB,
O Connei.u and Spring Streets.
f
ANYAS FOLDING
V J COTS, for camping
out. A cheap occasional
bed light, strong, and
handy, 10s. 6d.
Newton & Lame.
DINING- TABLES, with patent extending
screws, from 5 feet long and up to 20 feet.
w
made, £3 10s
ALNUT TELESCOPIC DINING
TABLES with extra leaves, strongly
HALL FURNITURE, HATSTANDS and
CHAIRS. LARGE ASSORTMENT.
NEWTON & LAMB.
IBRARY FURNITURE, CENTRE and
_U SIDE TABLES, BOOKCASES, SECRE
TAR IKS, READING and LOUNGE CHAIRS.
(NOMMODE CHAIRS, BIDETS, with Pan,
-/SHAVING STANDS, NEWTON and
LAMB.
JAPANESE BLINDS, White or Green (extra,
quality), fitted with pulleys and cord, G x 8,
Gs, 6d.; 8 x 8, Os.; 9xB, 9s. Gd.; 10 x 8,10 s. 6d.;
12x8, 12s. Gd.; 12x10, 15s. Newton & Lamb,
Furniture Warehousemen, Spring and O’Connell
Streets.
EASY CHAIRS for Parlour, Library or Bed ■
rooms. New Designs covered to order in
any material. Newton A Lamb.
SELF-ADJUSTING CHAIR and COUCH,
for Invalids and Medical Men.
ROCKING EASY CHAIRS, elegant and
restful—a speciality. Newton & Lamb.
ƒ
A
USTR'IAU
CHAIRS
in
great variety.
NEWTON & LAMB.
1
iANYAS FOLDING
CHAIRS.
Substantial and Light.
Sni table for Shipboard and
Verandah.
Price Very Low.
NEWTON and LAMB
Furniture Warehousemen,
Spring and O'Connell Streets.
GARDEN SEATS, 6ft. long, Rustic Cast-iron
Standards, 14s. 6d., 195., 255., 325. 6d.
Newton and Lamb.
Yerandah chairs.
INDIAN LONG ARM LOUNGES.
T>ATTAN VERANDAH LOUNGES, from
JClt 155.; and large variety of Chairs, from
10s. 6d.; special designs, extra quality. Newton
and Lamb, Furniture Warehousemen, Spring and
O’Connell Streets.
EW TO N AND LAMB.
FURNITURE and PIANOFORTE
WAREHOUSEMEN,
CABINETMAKERS, UPIIOLSTERERS
AND
BEDDING MAN UFACTURERS.
Show Rooms and Manufactory;
SPRING AND O’CONNELL STREETS


Everybodynow-a-days drinks Wolfe's Schnapps.
Write for plans £lO Building sites, Perth,
Western Australia. Intercolonial Investment
Company, Limited, 1)6 Bathurst-street, Sydney.
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
Charlemont and Co., high art photographers,
Royal Arcade, altogether owe their measure o
success to the fact that the merits of their photo
graphy are always of a high order.
Old-fashioned Jewellery modernised to perfection Uc
signs free. Daiims and Co., King-street Arcade.
Uss Batho’s Baking Powder.
Charlemont and Co., photographers to the
Governor, Royal Arcade, have moderated their
charges for photographs, with a view of meeting
every one. Cabinets now 15s. per dozen.
eioht 1 - 1- . unsth4'-:io- Depth 2-. V s.
Mind you get Wolfe’s Schnapps.
If out of sorts try Wolfe’s Schnapps.
Wolfe’s Schnapps has no rival.
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
IS thdTnost complete and perfect instalment' ever, offered .'at the pace,.
Seven Octaves, Full Trichord, Iron Frame, latent Check '‘Action? Brass
Pin Plate, Cross-Strung, requiring only the minimum'of tuning.*? Th« tono
is powerful, aiidpuro-f 1 * In very _ elegant. Black and jGoldjj/
Walnut Cascsi"“
This Piano is introduced by WV H. PALING & CO.. Limited, for, the
purpose of meeting .a long-felt demand for a good, reliable instrument at an
easy price, and thereby giving to the head of almost every household an
opportunity of supplying his-homo with ft firstrdass Piano at a price heretofore
jpaid for a' much iaffliorinatruinent.
Recommended by doctors —Wolfe’s Schnapps.
If asked to drink, call for Wolfe’s Schnapps.
Wolfe’s Schnapps—a mild stimulant.
Use Batho’s Bakin" Powder.
JC
ci
o
Q
M
o
U
7
Scents.
DELISSAk PHILLIPS
3&J Barrack Street.
OUNTRY STOREKEEPERS, ETC.
A. M. MARKS & CO.,
—lm PORTE us or—
Furniture, Pianofortes, Glass, Earthenware,
CHINA, FANCY GOODS, ELECTRO PLATE,
CI«AKS A TOBACCONISTS SUNDRIES
SOLE AGENTS FOR
Dawn Cigars and Salonica Turkish Cigarettes,
Special Novelties in all Lines for Christmas Trade.
Prices on Application to —
A. 3VT. Marks & Co-,
Vickery’s Buildings, 74a Pitt Streeet, Sydney"
AND AT LONDON.
Telephone, No. 919.
Should write or call Upon
LADIES,
CONSULT the Eminent
Specialist,
Dr. SPEER, 31 York-st.
Sydney.
PILLS (Guaranteed), 55. : post free.
FAT
PEOPLE MADE
Anti-corpulence
Pills cure Stoutness
rapidly and certainly
Full particulars
sent free (sealed).
Address: W. PARKER, Box 598, Gr.P.O., Sydney.
THIN
Adam B edes
NOW OPEN—
MELBOURNE CUP, 1890.
V /
J3T 50,000 at 20 each..
50,000 at XO each.
Akdkkss (phase register Utters) —
Adam Bede,
O/o H. N. ABBOTT,
Post Office Chambers, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
462 EXTRA.—462.
400 EXTRA.—4OO.
Ask for the
Unequalled
DAWN” 3d. CIGAR,
Of all
Tobacconists,
Store
AND
Hotel
KEEPERS.
Wholesale \<-enls: A. M. MAUKS it Co., 7la k ITT STItKRT, SYDNEY.
CASHMERE
OUQUET
All the essentials for wide popularity are fully
met in
COLGATE’S CASHMERE BOUQUET
Toilet Soap and Perfumes,
which can be obtained from all chemists and
dealers in perfumery.
TO EVERYONE SHAVING
becomes a delight who uses
Colgate’s Demulcent Shaving Soap
GUI,I) MEDAL, PARIS, im
THE REFEREE.
Victorian owners complain that, whereas their
■ ,-jps are always unfavourably handicapped for Sydney
t he New South Waters get in lightly at Flemington
and f'aulfleld Whatever reason there may be for this
jaiht it is obviously good business policy on the
of the Victorian managements to give “foreign
PjLg a fair inducement to come over, just as any
systematic overweighting of visitors must prejudice sport
on the Sydney side.
# * *
A vropos to the late Mr. James White’s wagering
' n |ght before Martini-Henry was ignominiously
r'' n f o s r the Champion his owner strolled into the Vic-
! 8 ■ niuh Melbourne, and offered £IO,OOO to £SOOO on
f Musket colt. The King hadn’t enough pluck to syn-
nipatf. the big bet. and Mr. White escaped, just as the
, P i or( j Dudley did when he tried to induce J. B. Morris
iT hook £20,000 to £IO,OOO on Macgregor for the Derby.
Years afterwards when ho was well-nigh a “broker,”
Morris was wont to bewail his stupidity in refusing the
MacGregor odds. “If I’d lost I could have owed it to
him”’ Morris used to say.
# * *
Mr. “Seppy” Stephen—the English papers
him “Sippy” and (such is fame) spell his surname
fvlth a final ‘s’ was, just before the English Derby started,
« verv confident that Kirkham would get a place.”
* * *
There is now a controversy raging as to whether
noor Kirkham was not actually last in the English Derby
# * *
Steeplechase Pay at Elemington was a rousing
success in point of attendance, Stand, Hill, and Flat—
osnpciallv the latter-showing respectable imitations of
dm Melbourne Cup crowds. Probably there were 20,000
upoblb to curse the fate that brought them to.the meet-
in<r With the exception of Bendigo, whose biggest
hackers came from N.S.W., not one “good thing” came
off durin" the afternoon, and the books, who lost heavily
on minor’events the preceding Saturday, wore au almost
unbroken smile. The local sporting writers could sec no
virtue in Fearless 11., although the horse had won in bnl-
lian style the first day and was bound to have, as The
Bulletin sii° r ii*GstGclj cigpood show. In the t&cg hG mnet g his
own running and won all the way, only the old, often-
tried performers managing to get round after him.
Of the “ private reputation ” animals Busaco was the most
utter failure. ‘Credited with being the best jumper in the
universe he fell three times. Lawler, who looked in fine
form probably came to grief through being too light-
hearted while Titokawaru, who certainly finished second,
iumped’sluggishly throughout. The stewards called upon
the owner of Bendigo to explain the strange improvement
in his horse’s form since the previous Saturday, but a
very remarkable piece of riding in the Open Steeplechase
escaped their notice. Only the public noticed. Mel-
bourne has now reverted to its normal condition, and
horse-talk is laid aside until October, when the preliminary
Caulfield Cup fever, deepening into the “Carnival”
frenzy, will break out once more.
* * *
Melbourne Sportsman’s leading tipster selected
(only three days beforehand) three horses for the Grand
National Hurdle Race. Not one of them was a starter.
# * *
Surefoot has shown that his Derby running was
all wrong, by subsequently beating the Oaks winner,
Memoir.
# * *
Fuller Pilch, the old-time cricketer, said that
he liked always to have at least one wild spirit in his
eleven who would go in and hit ’em all over the shop.
Poor Bates filled this billet for several of our English
visiting teams, and was a valuable gate-money player in
consequence.
* * *
The foreigners take the cake for jumping prizes.
The Auteuil (France) Grand Steeplechase is worth £SOOO,
and die Hurdle Race has £2OOO added, being £SOO more
than was given to the recent Grand Nationals at Fleming-
ten But the V.R.C. will be standing £SOOO for their
Winter Steeplechase in about another three years, judging
from appearances.
# * *
Rev. Dr. Bevan supports the totallsator. That’s
to say, he prefers it to betting. The Doctor gradually
brings out his Socialism, like the Scotch piper, called upon
by the Hibernian to “ Jist play the ‘ Byne Wather’ jintly,
and see how I can shtand it.”
* * *
In the football field on Saturday, N.S.W. v.
Queensland, mud was the order of the day. Sydney
dressed down the visitors, the most prominent in the field
again being Lusk and Frazer, the latter’s performances
being specially remarkable on account of the heavy
ground and his immense bulk. Queensland had all the
best of the “ scrums,” but it must have been owing to
condition, as they did not appear to have weight on their
side. The wet ground was against anything like scientific
football, hut with a fine week better things may be looked
for next Saturday, when the teams renew the battle.
* * *
Delayed cable-news coming in the lump inform
us that the cricket-match against Gloucestershire was
drawn greatly in favour of the Australians; that the
Players defeated “Our Boys” at Sheffield, in a return
match, by five wickets ; and that the match with Surrey
would have resulted, if not drawn, in a sound trouncing
for Australia. When going to press the match with All
England, at Lord’s, was being closely contested, but the
scores were small. The cricketers have decided to abandon
the proposed Indian and African tours.
* * *
The writer received a letter from one of the Aus-
tralian Eleven recently which said that Sam Jones was out
of form, but was “coming on,” which prophecy has since
been verified by Jones’ cabled scores. Murdoch was
batting splendidly, also Ferris. The bowlers were in great
form, but the writer complained bitterly that—British
fair play again—“in every match they had to play the
umpire.”
# * *
To an outsider it would seem strange how lightly
the English press has let down the present Australian
Eleven. Previous and successful teams were money-
grabbers, professionals, and not even fit for the Gentlemen
of England to lunch with. This team are fair cherubim
with the English press. J. Bull always did like anybody
he could lick.
* * *
Rev. Editor Pitchett, of Melbourne Daily
Telegraph, meets the Devil half-way—by giving full
reports of horse and other races without any mention, of
the odds. “Is gambling forbidden in the BibleV” is a
modern debating society question. Well, is it? Perhaps
in the spirit, but not in the letter. So you can safely
write to the Behemoth sweep, with a present of £l, on
All Fools’ Day.
# * *
The late Lord Derby never gave his winning
jockeys anything more than the regular fee. Butler won
a big race for him, and was overjoyed when the Earl gave
him a clutch of game-fowls’ eggs, but his mates sub-
stituted duck eggs for them, and Butler was aghast, at
the result with his game ducks.
* * *
by the time this appears in print “Billy’-
Murphy, the phenomenal feather-weight boxer, will have
again put foot on Australian soil. In America Murphy
beat the best men at his weight that England and America
could produce, and he returns laden with scalps and
dollars. He is one of the few sensible athletes who look
forward to the day when their strength and cunning shall
have deserted them, which seems much to have annoyed
the Yankees. “Griffo” intends, to have a shy at the
champion, but, clever as the lad undoubtedly is, the
writer does not think he has a big show with the slaugh-
tering Murphy,
* # #
The horse export, Melbourne to India, this
year, is particularly lively, and 2000 is said to be the
total. One ship took 390 last week. The very cream of
our horses, the most useful sort, go to mount the
Bengal cavalry and other equestrian Sepoy sabreurs and
lancers.
* # #
Melbourne Steeplechase meeting brings again
jockey slaughter on the tapis, though, as it happens, they
didn’t exactly kill any this time. There is great reckless-
ness in putting jocks on old crocks with three legs and a
swinger, for steeples. How seldom do you hear of any
serious accident in a race like the Liverpool Grand
National! The slain jockey record of Australia is
ghastly and devilish, this “Butchered to make a
Roman holiday ” business. Why have jockeys no Trade-
Union ?
■* * #
John Eden Savill has leased the racehorse
Chicago for two years in England. Ringmaster and
Lady Betty have not added to their successes on the
English turf, but Mr. Dan. Cooper’s two-year-old Ally
Dorcas has won the Princess of Wales’ Cup at the New-
market July meeting.
* # #
Charley Samuels, the famous aboriginal pedes-
trian, has" fallen low and quitted the running-track.
Starvation in Sydney has driven him to the aboriginal
camp at Botany. This prompts us to inquire about the
men who are alleged to have won fabulous sums over the
darkey as well as those who were so enthusiastic in
cheering his victories.
# # *
William O’Connor, having got over the gloom
consequent on his defeat by Stanbury, which caused him
to decide that he’d never row again, challenges M‘Lean
to row him over the Nepean course for £2OO. O’Connor,
like Hanlan, doesn’t fancy the currents and tides 1 of the
Parramatta.
The Literary World, London, by last
mail, reviews four Australian books of poetry by
four different poets, in one batch.
Temple Bar has a yarn of man who fell
down a New Zealand geyser and was shot up
again —of course—or where would the yarn be ?
In associating the N.S.-W. Postmaster-
General with barmaids, the Protestant Standard
almost “ travelled from Dan to Beershebeens.”
ALWAYS AHEAD.
With it none other can compare,
None other dare compete,
For Pkm ell’s Flour is everywhere
Known to be and sweet.
Extract from a gaol billet-doux, read in the
police-court last week: —“I went over toe your
old woman and giv hir the muney for your cloze.
She told us the interest would come to 5 shillings,
so I had to pome my kote to giv hir the muney.”
We hope the old woman lent him the kote to re
place the one he porned, because the real owner oi
the cloze was still in “ jug ” at the time and
couldn’t possibly be wanting to do a mash. Alto-
gether it was a mixed transaction, from whicl
“uncle ” came out top, as usual.
A London newspaper devotes a column to
the new papyrus of the Egyptian “ Book of the
Dead,” found at Thebes, and dating from about
Moses’s time. It appears to show that Christianity
existed even then, for the parallelism with our own
beliefs and worship is simply amazing, as Pro-
fessor Denton showed with his lectures on Egypt
in Australia. We remember Bishop Moorhouse
attending one and coming out much impressed.
Poor old Denton, it will be remembered, lies in a
New Guinea grave. Once he held a public dis-
cussion with Garfield, afterwards U.S. President*
An English journalist, who has written for
London Graphic, Standard, &c., desires imme-
diate employment. Shorthand writer, musical
critic and composer, skilled book-keeper. Address,
H., 116 Bathurst-street, Sydney,
A Barcoo squatters’ organ, formulating a
new code of rules to be adopted by the Shearers’
Union, jokingly suggests this: —“No shearer is
expected to have less than five or more than ten
horses with him, and as many goats as he likes.”
The Choicest Jewellery. Baums & Cos., King-st. Arcade
Ladies’ Silver Watches, Sss. Baums & Cos., King-street
Arcade.
Allcock’s Porous Plasters.
—IN—
Chest, Liver, and Kidney Affections.
St. Veryan Vicarage, Gram pound-road,
Cornwall, January, 1890.
Dear Sir,—I write to inform you that your
“ Allcock’s Porous Plasters ” are excellent—a real
blessing. Whatever I may say, I feel I cannot
praise them sufficiently. I have given away
hundreds amongst the poor and suffering, and 1
cannot recall a single instance where they failed
to give relief. They have been used by me for
| complaints in the chest, liver, kidneys, and spine,
I with marked results, in fact, I know of three
special cases,, out of many (one of chest, one of
liver, one of kidneys) where the sufferers had been
to the infirmary, tried many doctors, without any
benefit, and were told that nothing more could be
done. I gave them your plasters, and after a fair
trial of them the result was really wonderful.
The sufferer in the chest no longer complains of
i weakness, has lost all distressing cough, and is
I quite strong. The sufferer from liver complaint
! no longer complains of indigestion and pains in
the side and between the shoulders, but is quite a
different person. The sufferer from kidney com-
plaint no longer lies in bed nine months in the
year in agonies, but is able to get out of doors
every day, and is free from pain. I shall recom-
mend these plasters wherever I go.—With all
good wishes for the New Year, yours very grate-
fully,
JAMES ARTHUR KEMP, Minister.
ALLCOCK'S POROUS PLASTERS arc solo
by all Chemists, in various sizes, from 1/1 i to 22/li
Vic sure you get Allcock's.
NEW REMEDY FOR IRISH
DIFFICULTIES.
A leading Dublin paper, having heard so much
said in both the Irish and English press in favour
of a wonderful oil, determined to investigate the
matter by personal interviews with the people
who had used it, in order to learn whether or not
one half that was said of its magical power wa s
true, or whether it was one of those gigantic
advertising schemes, the magnitude of which in
these modern times fairly takes one’s breath
away. Its representative interviewed a number
of people in various parts of Ireland who had
been cured by the application of the oil, and in
every instance he found that the published state-
ments were true and correct in every particular.
Everywhere people were enthusiastic in its praise.
A captain of the Royal Irish Fusiliers, who had
suffered long from rheumatism and sprained
ankle, said: “The effect after three applications
of St. Jacobs oil was simply marvellous ; the pain
at once departed, and has never returned.”
A prominent hotel proprietor, after suffering
years from rheumatic gout, said: “It would be
hard to conceive of anything working a cure so
rapidly as St. Jacobs oil did in my ease.”
A sergeant of the Royal Irish Constabulary
told of a friend who had been a great sufferer for
years with rheumatism in the back, suffering great
pain ; using two bottles of St. Jacobs oil the pain
entirely disappeared, and never returned.
A young woman in Castlebar told the reporter
of the almost miraculous cure which her mother,
aged 70 years, had experienced from using the
invaluable St. Jacobs oil. She had been almost
helpless for two years from rheumatism, and was
completely cured by using less than one bottle of
the oil.
A prominent surgeon in Tipperary related the
case of a parish priest, who had for a long time
suffered the most intense agony from sciatica
completely cured in three days by rubbing him’
self well with St. Jacobs oil.
A very enthusiastic Irishman in Gort was met
with, shouting “Long five St. Jacobs oil.” He
had suffered the most intense rheumatic pains for
years, and was cured by using the contents of one
bottle of the oil.
A cooper in Beale, County Kerry, Ireland,
related how his knee was twice its natural size,
stiff, and painful, and he was unable to stand,
swelling and pain entirely disappeared after using
St. Jacobs oil one week.
An old gentleman in Mallow was cured in one
week after having commenced to use St. Jacobs
oil, of severe rheumatism of six years’ standing.
On returning to Dublin, the reporter called on
some of the leading chemists, for the purpose o
learning their views. Messrs. R. Simpson an .
Co., of 16, Henry-street, the well-known chemists®
stated that St. Jacobs oil was the most popular>
remedy now being sold ; that it is no uncommon
thing for them to sell 1200 bottles of the oil in a
single week. That their last order was for 600
dozen, or 7200 bottles, and you can rest assured,
said Mr. Simpson, the senior partner, that no
medicine would have this enormous sale unless .it
possessed actual merit. -
PROGRESS IN CIVILISATION.
Nature never makes a mistake. Whatever
material is at hand is turned to the best use.
Man, the creation of Nature, follows in her foot-
steps, and steadily seeks a higher plane by reject-
ing the less worthy, and selecting that at his com-
mand which is the most practical. This progress
in civilisation is marked in all details of life, and
particularly in the different apparatus or mechani-
cal contrivances for every day contingencies. One
by one the less fitting drop* out, or are literally
crowded aside by those offering superior advan-
tages. Steam has superseded sail. The old time
horological contrivances are pushed to the rear by
the newer, less costly, and more reliable appliances
of to-day. To-day "the public demand economys
combined with quality, honesty, and Accuracy, and,
in all these particulars the Waterbury watches
“fill the bill,” and thereby have gained respect
and admiration in every quarter of the earth as
honest, reliable, and faithful timekeepers, pro-
duced at as low a cost as is compatible with'good
material, skilful workmanship, and ■ their un-
doubtedly excellent qualifications'.
CAUTION.— AII Watches Manufactured
by the Waterbury Watch Co. have the word
“WATERBURY” printed in fine type upon
THEIR DIAL FACES, AND ALSO THE INTERWOVEN'
LETTERS W.W.CO., WITHOUT WHICH NO WATCH
sold as a WATERBURY is genuine. If you
want correct time and a: watch which in event of
accident can be efficiently repaired at a reasonable
cost, DEMAND THE WATERBURY.


Hats made to Order-
Business Announcements.
PRIDDY & CO.,
: ;////
MANUFACTURER
OF HATS//
LuJijll I
V —o r— 1
Mercery.
438 George Street, Sydney.
Branch—67B George Street, Brickfield Hilt.
Morley's Hosiery.
DESTROYED
MANHOOD
REGAINED AND RETAINED.
The Australian Msdisal
Institute,
35 OASTLERBAGH STREET,
Founded for the Treatment of Nervous, Skin
Blood, and Chronic Complicated Diseases, is
the Only Reliable Medical Institute in Austral-
asia making a Speciality of PRIVATE DISEASES.
DR. JENKINS
Treats sucessfully all forms of Nervous,
Chronic, and Private Diseases, no matter of
how long standing or however complicated.
TO THE UNFORTUNATE
T. r bo tbroagli ignorance and felly have trifled away
their .strength, become ambitiouless in life, en-
feebled inpower.and to whom existence is scarcely
bearable, Dr. Jsnkini says
COME AND BE HEALED
As the terms upm v-hich pa:,Seals are treated, via .
NO CURE NO FEE, enables all sufferers to avail
themselves of this remarkable opportunity of
obtaining a speedy and effectual cure. De. Jenkins
wishes it to ha distinctly understood that ho does
not rely upon the issue of books, more often never
written by the persons whose names they bear, and
are mere traps for tire unwary, but honestly and
straightforwardly treats his patients according to
the dictates of a sound medical training.
NOTE THE ADDRESS
The AUSTRALIAN MEDICAL INSTITUTE,
35 CASTLEEEAG II STREET (Corner Moore-s(reet),
SVUM.V.
*. T. W. 4 00.
<b£
0
<£**** <s>
& 'l'
Q. 9
from
every flower that
breathes a fragrance
SWEET SCENTS
LOXOTIS OPOPONAX
v FRANGIPANNI PSIDIU M
May he obtained
Of aui/ Chemist or
Perfumer.
Street
Beware of imitations: The genuine
TRADE MARK MUsK DEER
TH F
ROYAL
EDINBURGH
_ CASTLtf
S pecialßeseh VE
AAA
OLD
ScotchWhiskv
>&(L6Ct j/fod4.
tiediJlt'kJriiUoU
KOVAL
Edinburgh Castle
mu ski .
* * *
Spkoiaf. Reserve.
In Square Bodies.
This Whiskywas
selected by our Gene-
ral Manager, Mr. JaS.
Cullen, during his
recent visit to Scot-
land, and through its
purity, age and mag-
nificent bouquet, has
already secured the
premier posi tion i n the
market. In cases, qrs.
and octaves. Jo be
had Duty Paid from
any of the Wholesale
Wine and Spirit Mer-
chants and Distribu-
ting Houses, and in
Bond only from the
POLK AGENTS,
William Campbell & Co M Limited^
58 Clarence Street. SYDNEY.
GrrandL Pier Hotel. Manly.
, £
V ■
: m
t
tucritlfi PHOIOENC. CO- S BRIDCEST, SYDNEY.
LATIMEIt A BKOOKE • • • ■ Proprietors.
This Hotel has been Re Furnished throughout. |3f” Cuisine and Comfort a Speciality.
Aarons’ Exchange Hotel, Sydney.
-rr-r r-
“—'
mi
■
,<0
'•lt
- in’.
■
i
, ./j ■*
. t
i nr
a «
■
2S.
m
Adjoining' the SYDNEY EXCHANGE.
Mining, Financial and General Mercantile Intelligence
Posted several times DAILY in the Building.
TELEGRAPH, POST and MONEY ORDER OFFICES on the PREMISES.
This Hotel has been thoroughly renovated and re-furnished, and is now unrivalled for comfort
and attention.
Aarons’ Exchange Hotel Co. (Limited), Proprietors.
X3o You SmoKe ?
If so, treat yourself to an article so far above all other brands in quality and flavour that it cannot be
excelled. ,’J he Tobacco we want you to try is the “DU AD BIRD ” brand. In colour it is a rich
dark brown, and is the finest quality of American Tobacco ever introduced. We only ask you to send
for a Single I‘iug or a jib. packet of the Long Cut, and, after having once tried it, you will never
change it for any other brand. We can send you a small parcel of the tobacco in any form—as a
Mixture, Long Cut, or Curly Cut, for pipe only. This particular cut does not require any rubbing up.
We.ean send you any size plug from an ounce to a pound weight.
For lib. Plugs ... ... (»/- |
For Long Out,'-Jib. pkts. ... 7/- ■ J
PRICES:
f Single Plug, as sample, }lh ... 1/6
\ Single Packet, as sample, jib ... 2/-
Send Stumps for any of these amounts, and tee will forward to any part of N.S.W. (post free.)
SOLE
AGENTS:
CRAIG & AITKEN, 680 George Street, Sydney.
JONES’ SEWING MACHINES,
FOR THE BOOT AND TAILORING TRADES.
THE BEST MANUFACTURING MACHINES IN EXISTENCE.
Now Perfected, the New No. 3 and No. 4 Machines on an Entirely New System.
STOCK JUST LANDING.
Farleisrli, Nettlieim, & 00,
TANNERS AND LEATHER MERCHANTS,
16 - YOEK STREET, - SYDNEY. ?,
Sole Agents for the above for New South Wales and Queensland.
(x)
ALSO Importers of Requisites for the BOOT MANUFACTURING TRADE in all Details, including MACHINERY,
IMPORTED LEATHERS, &c.; and of the following Special Links : Peerless Gloss. Satin Polish, Nubian
Blacking. Tanners’ Tools and Materials. j£S y ” Indents Executed on Favourable Terms.
Medical.
DR. RICHARDS.
iiBM ■" " rn
; ' ' ■■ -—~ i" ■''‘'TBnßiffflPrTltMi■■
r
This eminent Specialist, Founder, and Chief
Surgeon of the long-established and favourably-
known Dispensary that now bears his name, re-
ceived his medical education in the leading colleges
and hospitals of Europe. He has devoted a life-
time to the study of
PRIVATE, NERVOUS, AND SKIN
DISEASES.
He has by profound research thoroughly investi-
gated their origin, traced their deadly sources and
insidious dissemination, and ascertained the surest
and safest methods by which they may bo eradi-
cated, with these widely recognised qualification
combined with unswerving faithfulness to hij
patients, he has during his practice, extending
over FORTY YEARS, attained a well-deserved
pre-eminence in their treatment. llis practice
embraces diseases which probably cause more un-
happiness than any other class of troubles that
afflict mankind.
YOUNG MEN
who suffer from the results of early follies, trans-
gressions or excesses of more nature age, bladder
difficulties, a whitish or dark ropy sediment in
the water, accompanied by slight burning or
smarting sensation, Headaches, Drowsiness during
the day, circles round the eyes. Giddiness,
irregularity of the bowels, specks before the eyes,
bashfulness, discontentedness, weakness or pains
in the back, Liver or kidney complaints, dreams,
buzzing noises in the ears and head, pimples, a
fear that something dreadful is about to happen,
weak stomach, yellow or blood-shot eyes, impure
blood, hasty, uncontrollable temper, hacking
cough, who cannot marry, nervousness in society,
wakefulness, palpitation of the heart, genera!
weakness, and other symptoms which lead to in-
sanity and death, should consult him, for he has
mastered these difficulties. On receipt of 6d. in
stamps he will send secure from observation in a
plain wrapper, postage
FREE, A LARGE CLOTH-BOUND
BOOK.
Showing plainly how all diseases of the private or
nervous system may be cured thoroughly and per-
manently without unnecessary exponce. This
book will prove a valuable companion, and even
though you be perfectly well its general inform-
tion and prescription may assist you in restoring
some poor friend to health even after his case has
been pronounced incurable by his medical at-
tendant.
ONE FOUND IS SUFFICIENT TO
SEND
for Remedies necessary for the cure of NER-
VOUS DEBILITY. Should you require medical
treatment, as procrastination is sometimes dan-
gerous, it would be advisable for you to sit down
quietly in your chamber and write to the doctor,
detailing every experienced symptom. He will
on receipt of such a letter, write you, promptly
and courteously, a oUndid and straightforward
oponion of your case. If you do not think you
understand the case, send for his famous medical
work, the price of which is but sixpence ; enclosed
in the volume will be found a list of carefully-pre-
pared questions, which will, in all probability,
assist you materially in describing your ailment.
Dr. Richards uses nothing but the purest remedies,
and never prescribes mercury under any circum-
stances. The moment letters are carefully per-
used and answered they are destroyed by lire,
and patients may rest assured that their cases
will remain a secret between the doctor and
themselves. Dr. Richards has successfully treated
nearly 25,000 cases since coming to Australia, and
has permission from at least 10,000 persons to
show their written evidence of his success. All
communications should be addressed
Dr. RICHARDS
r 7 Spring Street
(Off Pitt Street North;
S Y D LT E Y.
Be sure to mention this paper when writing
I
I
' CONSULTATION FREE.
“ Do you think your sister
likes to have me come here,
Jamey ? ”
“ You bet. You take her
to the the-a-ter and bring her
lollies.”
“ I’m glad I can make he 1 ’
happy.”
“ Yes, and the young feller
what she’s engaged to don’t
mind it either, for it saves him
that much money towards going
to house-keeping. ” —Ex.


Shipping.
jjUDDART, PARKER & CO.’S LINE
STEAM TO
HIEhBOIKNK ami TASMANIA.
From lluddart, Parker's Wharf.
-For Time and Dale of Sailing, see daily papers.
The magnificent steamships, BURRUMBEET and
FhINOAMITE, have established an unrivalled reputation
for their speed and accommodation, and their large size
ensures passengers a maximum of comfort. The saloon
cabins are light, airy and very roomy. The dining saloon
is full width of the ships, also magnificent music room,'
with gentlemen’s smoking room and splendid promenade
deck. Fore-cabin is on the main deck —lofty and well-
ventilated, perfect sanitation and ample lavatories. Fore-
cabin passengers provided with victuals and rugs. Inspec-
tion invited on days of sailing.
FARES TO MELBOURNE :
Saloon, Single £1 - r > 0
„ Return ... 2 .1 0
Forecabin 10 0
FARES to LAUNCESTON ■:
Saloon, Single £‘2 5 0
~ Return 315 0
Forecabin 1 0 0
FARES TO HOB ART :
Saloon, Single £lO 0
„ Return 110 0
Return Tickets available for Six Months.
For Heights apply
HUDDAET. PAEKEE & 00-
(Limited).
Office and Wharf; Foot of Margaret Street, Sydney.
JJORDDEUTSCHER LLOYD.
IMPERIAL GERMAN MAIL.
Passengers are carried according to the requirements of
the English Passenger Acts of 1855 and 1863.
MONTHLY LINE OF DIRECT STEAMERS
from
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, and ADELAIDE,
to SOUTHAMPTON, ANTWERP, and BREMEN, via
COLOMBO, Aden, £uez, and Genoa,
taking passengers for London,
connecting from PORT SAID by DIRECT MAIL and
PASSENGER LINE to BRINDISI,
will be despatched as follows (if practicable);—
Steamer.
I Leave
Commander. Sydney
Leave
Leave
Adelaide
Mel-
Sema
bourne
phore
1
13 Aug. 16Aug.
10 Sept. 13 j Sept.
8 Oct.
HlOct.
8! Nov.
Nov.
7 Dec
4 Jan
3 Dec.
IP.lan
1890
Niirnberg .. 11. Englehart Aug.
Dresden.. .. W. v Schuck-
| maun .. |Sept
Hohenstaufen W. Sohmolder Oct.
Habsburg .. G. Thuman
Kaiser Wil-
helm II .. L. Stdrmer
Elbe .. ..I
Nov.
And thereafter even - four weeks.
PASSAGE MONEY from SYDNEY,
£l4 to £57 10s.
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF NEW
ZEALAND, Limited.
SAN FRANCISCO ROYAL MAIL SERVICE.
OVERLAND ROUTE TO ENGLAND VIA SAN
FRANCISCO AND NEW YORK,
Calling at
AUCKLAND and HONOLULU,
Avoidihg alike the heat of the Red Sea and the cold
of Cape Horn.
Under Contract with the Postmasters-General of New
South Wales and New Zealand, the steamers of this line
are appointed to leave Sydney and Auckland for Honolulu
and San Francisco every fourth Wednesday, sailing as
under:—
Each steamer carries a duly qualified surgeon.
These steamers arc fitted with Electric Light and with a
Refrigerating Chamber for ship provisions, insuring a
plentiful supply of iee throughout the voyage.
Passengers are hooked to Sau Francisco or through to
European destinations and have at San Francisco choice of
the unrivalled Atlantic Steamship Lines of the Cunard,
Inman, White Star, and other companies.
All first-class passengers are allowed 3501 b. of baggage
to San Francisco and 2501 b. “ Overland ” free of charge.
THROUGH FARE TO LIVERPOOL.
FIRST-CLASS £63 to £66.
Time-cards, railway maps, and gu de books, showing all
routes to any point in the United States, may be had on
application
_ For rates of passage and freight and all other informa-
tion apply at the Company’s Offices, 15 Bridge-street.
FREDK. W. JACKSON, Manager,
fiOMPAGNIE DES MESSAGERIES MARL
** TIMES.
SYDNEY to LONDON.
OVERLAND FROM MARSEILLES via PARIS.
Steamers under postal contract with the Government of
France, calling at MELBOURNE ADELAIDE, KING
GEORGE'S SOUND, MAHE, SUEZ, and PORT S*J.D.
Passengers hooked fo KURRACHEE, BOMBAY,
MAURITIUS, and EAST COAST of AFRICA.
The service is carried on by powerful steamers of 4000
tons and 3000 effective h.p., built expressly for the Aus-
tralian and New Caledonian line, which will be despatched
as follows:
And thenceforward on the 25th of each month.
Rates of ppisageunoney to Marseilles ffom £2O to £65,
including table'wines and Suez Canal dues on passengers.
RETURN TICKETS issued at the following rates:—
English interpreters meet through passengers for
London on arrival of steamers at Marseilles, and accom-
pany them to Paris and Calais. N.B. - Passengers’ luggage
conveyed free of cost from Marseilles to London. For
freight, passage, and further particulars apply at the
Jompany’s Office, 15 Macquarie-plnce.
A. CONIL, Principal Agent.
JT I STORY OF BOTANY BAY.
PRICE—ONE SHILLING.
Medical.
Massa §' e hstitut
V 112 HUNTER STREET, ’
SYDNEY
(SECOND DOOR OFF MACQUARIE STREET),
Under the supervision of
MR. HUMBURG,
For the Treatment of
Nervous, Rheumatic & Joint Diseases.
(Is a pure," fragrant, ' non-gritty tooth powder, and
'warranted free from acids or other ingredients which
destroy the enamel; it whitens the teeth, prevents and
arrests decay, strengthens, the gums, and gives a
pleasing fragrance to the breath.
Rowland’s
Kalydor
a soothing, healing and emollient milk for the fate
and hands, and is most cooling and refreshing to the
skin in hot climates ; it removes freckles, tan, sunburn,
'roughness and redness of the skin, pimples, cutaneous
eruptions, &c., soothes and heals prickly heat, stings
tof insects, eczema, bums, and all cutaneous irritation
more effectually than any other preparation, and pio- :
duces soft lair skin, and a lovely delicate complexion ;
it is warranted harmless, and free from any lead or
poisonous ingredients.
ROWLAND'S EUKONIA,a fragrant toilet,warranted free from
ibiemuth or metallic ingredients, which ruin the com-
iplexion ;in three tints —white, cream, and rose. Ask
or druggist for Rowland’s articles.
AOTION.
The extraordinary reputation of Rowland’s Macassar
Oil, Kalydor and Odonto, induces some shopkeepers to
ioffer spurious imitations under the lure of being cheap;
the principle on which each is prepared is confined
solely to the knowledge of A. Rowland & Sons, of 20,
Hatton Garden, London, and therefore it is highly
necessary to: buy no Macassar Oil. Kalydor or Odonto
except those made by them, and which bear their
name in red ink on the wrappers.
Business Announcements.
Messrs. MAUDE! & CO.,
Artists in Natural Flowers,
Having engaged a competent Lady Artist from London,
are prepared, to place before the public all the latest
novelties in Floral work Table decorations for Balls,
Weddings, and Dinner Parties receive special attention for
which our visiting artist may be engaged.
Boquets, Wreaths, Presentation Baskets, Floral Designs,
Sprays, and Buttonholes
are arranged in the latest London style at
The Home of Flowers,
141 King Street, SYDNEY.
Royal Exotic Nursery , Peakhurst, Bnrstrille.
lEye-Siglit Restored.
WHY SUFFER ! We send gauge for testing sight,
a treatise on “Vision,” and all information free. Spec-
tacles of every description from Is.; Pebbles from ss.
Pilot Field Glass, clear definition five miles, with case.
“Liver” Telescope, with astronomical glass, clear
six miles, 21s. Good going Silver Watches, 255.,
nickle, 12s. (id., 15s. and 205., guaranteed two years.
W. E. Toose, Optician, 418 George-street, Sydney.
Awarded Nine Medals at various Exhibitions
•WOOL. 'WOOL.
THE MEW ZEALAND
Loan & Mercantile Agency
COMP A N Y. L TMIT ED.
BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Capital, £4,500,000 ... Reserve, £270.000
Wool Season* 1888-89.
Regular Sales of Wool Held Throughout the
Season.
THE greatest care bestowed on the Valuation and the
-L displaying and Protecting all Wools entrusted to
the Company for sale, whether from large or small clips.
Growers Advised and Consulted with before Sales
of their Clips arc made.
Liberal Cash Advances, where desired, on Wool lieu
of Ensuing Clip, and on Wool and other Produce, whether
for sale in Sydney or shipment to London.
Auction Sales of Shpp Skins, Marsupial
Skins, Hides, Tallow, &c., Held Regularly.
Every Information Supplied on Application.
G. S. CAMPBELL, Manager.
SYDNEY WOOL k GRAIN WAREHOUSES
Bridge and Loetus Streets.
N
O\V READY. “A GOLDEN SHANTY.’
Price, Is. All Agents arid Booksellers.
Medical.
The Male Generative Function
IN
Health and Disease,
BY
1 Dr. ALEX. PATERSON,
M.D. ; F.K.C.S., Ed.'; M.H.U.S., Eng.
' PRICE, 2s. (id.
OPINIONS OK THE PRESS :
. “ Valuable medical work—the Doctor is a quali-
I tied man and speaks with authority.”— Town and
Country Journal.
“Can recommend it as a work written by a
gentleman who has attained a very high status in
; his profession.”—Manning River Times.
j “It sets forth scientific truths which, in the in-
terests of individuals and society, should be more
generally disseminated.” —BathurstFree Press.
“ Society would be all the better if people only
gave a little of their reading time to such valuable
medical works as Dr. Paterson has in this instance
given to them. ” — Mudgee Independent.
“The" author not only fully understands the
perils which beset youth and manhood, but he can
point out the remedies.”— Oobar and Louth
Herald.
“Dr. Paterson, M.A., M.D., F.R.C.S.E., is a
high authority on the matters he deals with.”—
COCNAMBLE INDEPENDENT.
i “The work is well written, and far away the
| best we have read on the subject.”— Wilcannia
1 Times.
“ The. subject is treated in a manner which
j shows the author thoroughly understands it.”—
Fielding Star, N.Z.
“ The book cannot be too widely circulated, and
j should be in the hands of every person, male or
| female.” —Poverty Bay Independent, N.Z.
1 “Totally different from anything else of the
kind which has come under our notice.”— Bruce
! Herald, N.Z.
i “It is a work which every young man should
\ read and lay to heart. ” —Border Post.
157 Elizabeth Street, Hyde Park,
SYDNEY.
Consultation by Letter, £l.
gows
EMBROCATION
Vf i
i-i.t ..•»»#■■ i J
SOLO
(\EVERXsWHERE{I
E 3
PHYSICAL HEALTH of WOMAN,
-..UV-
ALEX. PATEKSOIL,
A.M., M.D., F.R.C.S.
■ —-):(~
157 Elizabeth Street, Hyde Park, Sydney.
—):(
PKH'E Sa. Gd.
A. 1 1 IO ooltsellers.
fUL
X
$5
m
&
ROSE’S
M
LOTi
ES/J
o'
4 r
valuable Lotion is guaranteed to cure SWELLING
- L and SANDY BLIGHT, INFLAMED EYES and LIDS,
DIMNESS OF SIGHT, &c. It will be found very bene-
ficial and cooling to t hose who have weak eyes, or whose
work compels them to strain their eyes. Highly
recommended by the leading Oculists.
j
Manufactured only by the Proprietor,
H. A. ROSE
dispensing and Manufacturing Chemist,
- 531 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Wholesale by the Proprietor and all Wholesale Houses.
Established 1855.. By Post Ss. C>d.
, Manufacturer of Dr. SOUTIIAN’S GOUT and
RHEUMATIC PILLS.
(W A
IN’S FAMILY & COMMERCIAL HOTEL,
PRINCES STREET,
(Opposite G. P. 0.)
TDinSTEDI IST-, JST.Z.
AI.F.X. 1“ A LllF.lt
l*roi»i'iHor
Medical.
DhSPEER
31 YORK STREET, WYNYARD SQUARE, SYDNEY,
P.O. Box 920. This eminent specialist is a graduated'
physician of Harwood University, U.S., registered by the
Governments of N.S.W. and N.Z., and has devoted I(s'
years to the special study of (II RON IC, NERVOUS, SKIN
and SPECIAL, diseases of MEN and WOMEN. All apply-
ing to him will receive his honest opinion of their com-
plaints. No experimenting ;no mercury used, A positive l
cure guaranteed or forfeit £2OO. His vast experience
Dlls him that where there is no organic disease, and
nothing but an inorganic trouble, or, in other words, a
conglomeration of symptoms producing a certain result,,
there is no reason why it cannot be removed with the-
proper remedies: therefore be guarantees. He claims to-
be the most skilful and successful physician in N.S.W. in
his particular speciality, v iz., the CHRONIC and SPECIAL-
DISEASES of MEN 'and WOMEN. Examination and
advice free to all. Charges moderate. Office Hours-Id
a.m. to 12 a.m. 1 2 to 4 and 7 to 8 p ra. Sunday, 10 to-
ll a.m. only.
KTervous Debility.
Consult Dr. Speer in all cases of NERVOUSNESS through
indiscretion, for his many years of practice with this
dreadful disease enables him to remove all traces of it and
to return the victims to full VIGOUR, HEALTH and
MANHOOD.
N.B. —TWENTY SHILLINGS is sufficient to send for
remedies necessary for the cure of NERVOUS DEBILITY.
DR. SPEER will forward, post'ffee.-at.'ss. per box, or
21s. for five boxes, tire following celebrated pills :
1. AMERICAN “ VITAL” PILLS, for nervous debility,
lost vitality, sexual weakness, errors, &c.
2. - AMERICAN “PRIVATE” PILLS, for discharges,
contagions sores and blood diseases.
3. “FEMALE” PILLS for irregularities and obstruc-
tions.
4. AMERICAN STOMACH, LIVER, and KIDNEY
PILLS, 2s. fid. per box.
yiyjQ
f
vK aVv h
' KRUPP rx c \\vmk
anic Chai
9mv,
oj
S 2
- 5S
\V\
ƒ
it
i
IF SO,
DON’T MISS THIS!
What everyone. says is hound to be true, and young
and old, rich and poor, physicians who recommend, and
patients who try
The Krupp Galvanic Chain Belt,
11 agree in praising that most scientific of Electro
Therapeutical Appliances. For Rheumatism it is un-
ii\ ailed. Lumbago at once succumbs to its power. The
Nervous are strengthened and the Debilitated restored to
perfect health and vigour. In short, the appliance is an
unfailing cure for all Nervous, Sexual, or Chronic Diseases,
ami is GUARANTEED to ABSOLUTELY CURE, com-
pletely and lastingly, the following complaints:
Dys cpsia, Neuralgia, Pains in the Bark and Chest,.
Lumbago, Catarrh, Rheumatism, Dumb Ague,
Nervous Debility, Paralysis, Kidney Complaint,
Spinal Disease, Female Weakness, Diseases of the
Liver, impotence, Seminal Wcakn ess, Diabetes,,
i viatica, Atrophy, Gout, Indigestion, Asthma, Piles,.
Epilepsy Spermatorrhea, Specks before the Eyes,.
Excessive Heart Palpitation, Defective Memory.
An I n failing Cure For Varicocele.
It is a PORTABLE BODY BATTERY, and contains
special appliances for both sexes; therefore, why waste
your money and health hy procuring and taking USELESS
DRUGS? Electricity, when properly applied, is acknow-
ledged by all leading and unprejudiced physicians to he
the only safe and radical cure for Nervous and Sexual
Diseases, and the thousands of testimonials received hy
the Krupp Belt Co. from leading personages throughout
Australasia prove the unquestionable curative properties
of Electricity as applied by theappliance above referred to.
Our confidence in this appliance is so complete, that
we send the Belt out on trial, and guarantee it
to give perfect satisfaction. For full particulars as to
terms, etc., send for our large illustrated treatise, " free,
in which these Belts are fully illustrated, the action of
electricity on the nervous system explained, and a lot of
useful information on nervous and sexual diseases given.
This treatise also contains facsimile of testimonials received
from some of our clients who have tried our Belts. The
originals of these testimonials produced on application.
Tlie prices of the Krupp Galvanic Chain Belt and
Suspensory are from £l.
Sole Inventor ... Carl Krupp.
Business Manager . . A. W. Courtney.
Address all eomrnunicat’ons to the
Krupp Galvanic Chain Belt Co.,
Box 647, G.P.0., Sydney, N.S.W.
Remember—The K.G. Chain Belt cures without medicine,
is easy to wear, is sent on approval, and the first cost is
the only cost.
INDISPENSABLE ]7OR RADIES
AND ALL PERSONS
MOUSON’S
COCOA BUTTERSOAP
Cocoa But tor Soap is a real skin-beautifler, and a balm to
young and old alike.
MOUSON & CO., PERFUMERS & TOILEt SOAP MANUFACTURERS,
FRANKFORT-ON-TIIK-MAINE.
fonoon: 32 & 33 hamsefl-st., e.c. Paris: 29 rue radziwill
Full guarantee for perfect purity is offered by the
sole Manufacturers, Mouson & Co.
JULIUS GOLDSCHMIDT & CO.,
231 CLARENOE St., SYDNEY,
SOLE AGENTS FOR AUSTRALASIA.
“ A Golden Shanty.”
PRICK ONE SHILLING,


An cxhil ftvoti uncordirl is WuJfc's »Schnn j»ps.
Wolfe’s Schnapps for lowness of spirits.
The original genuine article—Wolfe’s Schnapps.
Wolfe’s Schnapps—the ladies appreciate it.
You really ought to drink Wolfe’s Schnapps. -
Batho’s Baking- Powder,
Batho’s Baking Powder.
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
Wolfe’s Schnapps—for the liver and kidneys.
Deaf Forty Years.
The description of a simple remedy, by which a
complete cure of deafness and noises in the head of
forty years’ STANDING has just been effects d>
will be sent free to anyone who applies to
J. H, NICHOLSON,
< 175 William Street, Melbourne.
NOTICE.
DROVED UNWORTHY,
I By the Author of “In a Grass Country,”
“ Lord Elwyn’s Daughter,” &c.
Is commenced in
FAMILY HERALD PART for JUNE,
L Which contains also the opening chapters of
lyjADGE DALE'S MARRIAGE PORTION.
A NEW NOVEL,
IV By the Author of “ Gwen Dale’s Ordeal,”&c.
AUo, complete Stories, Essays, Answers to
Corresijondeuts, Cookery, Miscellanea, Enigmas.
Charades, Riddles, &c.
FAMILY HERALD PART for JUNE.
1 _ The Australasian says
“Th’s favourite domestic magazine retains all
its old interest and variety. ”
The
FAMILY HERALD may be had in Half-yearly
r Volumes and in Monthly Parts of all Colonia l
Booksellers and Newsagents; or the Monthly Part
direct from W. Stevens, 421 Strand, London,
England, for 14s. per annum, post free.
London: W. Stevens, 421 Strand; and at all
Newsvendors.
Government Advertisements.
Department of Public Works*.
Sydney, July 23, 1890,
Tenders eor public works and
supplies.
For Conditions, see Government Gazette.
TENDERS for the Works, &c., specified below
wiil.be received at this Department until 11 o’clock
a.in, on the dates mentioned.
WEDNESDAY, JULY 30.
Works, Kiama-Nowra
Railway
I Plans, &c., can be seen
- at the above office of
I the Engineer-m- Chief
WEDNESDAY, AUGUST G.
Additions, &e., Police Barracks, Lamhton
Repairs, &c., Court-house and Lock-up, Hillston
Bridge over Deep Creek, road Condobolin to
Wagga Wagga. (Fresh tenders.)
Alterations and Additions to Long Cove Bridge,
West Maitland
Construction of Swimming Bath, Cockatoo Island,
in connection with N.S.S. Vernon Fresh
tenders
Erection of Post and Telegraph Office, Kogarah.
(Fresh tenders.)
Bridge Belar Creek, road Nyngan to Canoubar
Supply of Melbourne Blue Stone or Bowral
Diorite for Coping of Concrete Wharf, Garden
Island
Supply of a 2-ton Crane for Wharf, Murwil-
lumbah
Construction of Waverley and Woollahra Branch
Intercepting Sewer —Contract No. 53, Sydney
Sewerage
Extension of Jetty, Old A. S. N. Company's
Wharf, Circular Quay
Additions Supreme Court, King-street, Sydney
Purchase of about 80 Tons Old Iron, &c., Fitzrov
Dock (fresh tenders).
WEDNESDAY, AUGUST 20.
Bridge, Darling River at Wentworth—Contract
No. 1— Manufacture, &c., Steel Lift Span on
Iron Piers. Contract No. 2—Erection of
Lift Span, &c,, &c.
Finishing Trades, New Lands Office, Sydney.
Additions Post Office, Gosford
Erection of Police Buildings and Lockup, Uralla
Erection of Court and Watch-house, St. Albans
Erection of Court and Watch-house, Robertson
Erection of Post and Telegraph-office, Wollongong
Compounding engines of and alterations to Dredge
Newcastle
Erection of Post-office, Moss Vale.
Contract No. G3—Sydney Sewerage Works,
Camperdown Branch, Western Suburbs
Sewerage
Supply and Erection of 15-ton Crane, Fitzrov
Dock
Extension of Wharf at Tathra
Construction of Training Wall, Brunswick Bin r
entrance
Bridge over Deep Creek, road Raymond Terrace
to Stroud
Bridare over Stoney Creek, road Raymond(Terraco
to Stroud
Bridge over Creek near Oessnock
WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 3.
Bridge, Hunter River at Aberdeen Coni rail.
No. I—Manufacture of Ironwork. &c. Tina-
extended. Contract No. 2—Erection of
Bridge. Time extended.
Darkey Creek Deviation, Bralga-road. . Fresh
tenders.
Erection of Police Barracks, Cassilis. Fresh
tenders.
WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 15.
Manufacture and Supply of 18-inch Wrought
iron Water Pipes, special castings, &c. (Offers
may also be submitted for pipes of steel.) Con
tract No. 72, Sydney Water Supply. (Dupli-
cation of Pipe Line, Potts Hill to Sydney)
Manufacture and Supply of 48-inch Cast-iron
Water Pipes, special castings, &c. —Contract
No. 73, Sydney Water Supply. (Duplication
of Pipe Line, Potts Hill to Sydney.)
In the event of tenderers not being prepared to
complete the two preceding services within speci-
fied time they may name a date for the completion,
which will be considered when the offers are being
dealt with.
BRUCE SMITH.
Answers to Correspondents.
“An Australian” (Riley-street): You are evi-
dently an Englishman, like the critic of whom you com-
plain. It is because he is a Londoner and knows his
subject that he slates your idols, with confidence, when
they require it. Now, you do not know your subject.
You ask why shows that are coldly received in Melbourne
should in Sydney prove highly successful ? There are
about sixteen reasons. Melbourne, it has to be admitted,
is the theatrical metropolis of Australia, with five theatres
furnishing strong entertainments at one time. Theatrical
managers say that Sydney seldom has more than one
theatre doing big business, the favoured one being rushed.
Sydney gets one at a time the “ fashionable ” shows which
Melbourne has in bunches “Yussif”: It is true that
emigrants to Canada and young natives of a certain age
are entitled to take up 160 acres of land free of cost, al-
most unhampered by conditions; but we read that a
lately-made provision hands over another hundred acres
to the man who has a family of eleven children.... “ J.O.’’
(Harden): Not vitriolic enough....“ Niels ” (Gvmpie) ;
Thanks.. “M.W.S.” : “ Innocents at Home ” rather long..
“Box 291”: We are only bound by our published con-
ditions. We can’t tell until we see your MS “P. L.”:
Thanks.E.L.A.”; There’s little ground for hysterics.
A thorough inquiry into the Vernon management may
reassure the community ; in any case no harm can be
done by investigation “E.M.0.”: The Bulletin does
not respect age to the extent which you so dogmati*
cally prescribe. The high official named sets himself up
as a fair target for political criticism by continuing to
exercise on occasions the power of life or death. Why
should a man who is so powerful be exempt from criti-
cism ? Were he altogether retired the case would,
perhaps, be somewhat different “ W.G. ” (Bomba): Ah
old yarn already printed in Bulletin “ Nhagilliac ” :
Under consideration.... “ P.R.D.” (Adelaide) : Yes, under
(he conditions stated in every issue “R.P.W.”: Try
your hand again. What you send is altogether too flimsy,
but it tends to show that you could, with care, write ex-
cellent verse...,“P. Hobson”: “Prodigal Son” really
humorous, but too wordy, and disfigured by repetitions. ..
“Constant Reader” (Townsville): Duval and Fenton’s
“Artistic Anatomy ”is the best. We dare say Turner and
Henderson, Sydney, would send it you for about 65..,.
“ Martin Robertson ”: You have totally overlooked one
weighty factor. If rents be controlled by prices, it by no
means follows that a fall in prices, which induces a fall in
rent, will revolutionise the position of the landlord towards
the community. His rent-returns are lowered, you say.
\ es, but the purchasing power of money is also increased
by that fall in prices which lowered those rents. Thus
the smaller sum represents to him as much comfort as
before, and, wages being also lowered, his tenants will
find it Just as hard as ever to meet his demands
“William 0. Butler”: Sketches handed to artist
“ Beery ” ; Disjointed bosh..,. “ Rambling Rhymester ” :
Too discursive. . “J. M‘B.” (Byerock): A parody is only
palatable when the thing parodied is prominently before
the public “J.A.S.”: Have already dealt with the
matter very much from your standpoint “ Two Sides ” ;
Better have open trade-unions than secret societies
“E. A. Amos”: Pure prejudice. You sneer at German
workmanship, but are not German razors good? And
how about German rifles, sausages and cannon? “Ig-
norance” : In America, where superfluous consonants are
dropped, the name is spelt with one “ 1 ” ; in England in-
variably with two ..“Redfern”: Even if all forms of death>
except the natural ones, were averted, it would take untold
ages to over-populate the earth, the productive possibili-
ties of which are as yet utterly unrealised. When that era
arrives this globe will probably be so chilled as to be unfit
for human habitation....“ Jack Bell”; Bellamy, like
other great writers, has doubtless taken advantage of the
w its of those who preceded him. His system differs,
however, greatly from each of those mentioned, though
probably he is indebted to each for some idea. . To say
that the system has been adopted by the Pitcairn
Islanders is untrue. Their community is a primitive one!
Bellamy’s system would only be necessary and pos-
sible in highly civilised centres of population....
“ Rockhampton ” : Both appear remarkably malicious....
“ A.8.C.” : Pitman, by all means, but learn to write
plainly when you start... “A.L.0.”: No, for in the
Indian Mutiny time Napoleon 111. conceded the right for
English troops to be sent by railway across France—Calais
to Marseilles.... “C.M.6.” (Q.) ;We hardly know’how to
take your paragraph “William Houston”: If you allude
to the Phillips case, there was no conviction, consequently
no sentence.... “ Pro Bono Publico ”: If you’re not
naturalised, have not performed the duties of citizen-
ship as to voting, &e., the production of your Ameri-
can papers should, w r e think, eliminate you
from the jury-1i5t....“ Fred. Whitmore": (1) The
present house was elected February 27, ’B9, therefore
has 19 months to sit. (2) When a Parliament, dissolved
through effluxion of time, re-assembles, the Governor
instructs the last-sitting Premier to form a Ministry (not
necessarily of his former colleagues) who must have their
appointment confirmed by their constituents. (S) Minis-
tries can resign without an adverse vote. (4) There
is no stated date for elections. (5) Three years
from the date of assembling, we believe
“ E.L.0.” : The Bulletin long ago gave the moral of the
Byron Bay harbour business : “ Claw’ me, claw' thee.”.
“Deptford ” : (1) Mr. Dillon was sick ; he was very ill when
in Sydney. (2) The Bishop who attacked him and who
says that Dillon obtained his release from prison “by a
miserable whine about ill-health ” is a “ Castle ” man, a
Tory “greaser.”... “A.J.”(Teningering): It is quite in
the natural order of things that Mr. Dailey’s political
memory should be honoured in England and not worried
about in Australia. The deceased gentleman’s chief
political act was antagonistic to the welfare of Australia,
and completely in the interests of the English classes*
The act has brought its owm reward. The dead man has
only honour in the stranger’s country.. .“Basham”; If
Australia starts a silver coinage of her own and only
gives as much silver for a shilling as England does,
she will make a thumping profit out of the business.
* Moncio ’’: Stanley, with his gastritis, getting married
while leaning on a stick, reminds one of Billikius, whose
wedding eve was passed with his feet in hot w ater and
his head in a napkin . ..“Guard”: The Sydney ’bus-
drivers work longer than any white man should be allowed
to work. The remedy is in their own hands. As to the
fact- we presume it is a facl-that only 70 men out of
1690 belong to the Sydney Cabmen’s Union, we can only
say that it is an evidence of the ignorance of the cabmen
“ R.S.” (Redfern): If your grandfather bought land
m Fitzroy, N.S.W., in 1849, and you have the deeds
thereof, jou ought logo and look the land up, because
Pitzroy is now a crowded and busy suburb of Melbourne,
and you may find yourself a millionaire—barring ob-
stacles in the way of possessory titles, and so on. (2?) We
don’t know about Hastings, but will look it up.
What is your favourite beverage between
acts? Why Marshall’s Tonic Nervine, of course.
The cable says that the reports as to the
Pope’s ill health are groundless. However, there
is no doubt that the Pope has of late been troubled
with epileptic fits.
The Escaped Convict.
“ The Frenchman’s gone!” so ran the tale
One week ago through Pentridge gaol,
Told by a warder deathly pale.
Pierre Douar had gone once more—
Not by the route he chose before,
When in the gloom of stormy night
The dauntless Frenchman first took flight,
From cage so strong, o’er wall so steep,
With fearless heart and fearless leap,
Away to the city enwrapped in sleep,
There were locks to pick and walls to scale
When Pierre Douar first broke from gaol.
They brought him back —the story old
Of a comrade false and a comrade sold ;
They bore him off to a dreary cell,
To the black despair of a noiseless hell,
To think of “ the God who freely gave
His own dear Son lost man to save; ”
To think and to bless with uplifted hand
The Christlike law of a Christian land ;
Seeing the light for an hour each day,
Silently watching the sunbeams play
For sixty minutes, then back to—pray ;
Bearing the strain till his brain gave way.
What did he mean by that surly moan—
“My body is their’s, but my soul’s my own?” .
Why did he fall on his trembling knees
And pray the Inspector prayers like these,
He, Frenchman Douar, who knew no fear—
“ Take me away, O away from here ! ”
“ Take me away, for the love of God ! ”
Coming from him it was strangely odd.
The ‘‘System’s ” good for a convict bad—■
Who is to know when it drives him mad ?
“ The Frenchman’s gone !” so ran the tale
Told by a warder deathly pale.
His body lay still on the cell’s cold stone,
But gone was the spirit he called his own.
(For never a system yet could check
The flight of a man with a broken neck)
The Devil, perchance, had heard his prayer
And taught him the way to escape from there,
To rescue himself with unaided hand
From the damning law of a Christian laud.
Bury it down in an ill-dug hole,
The Frenchman’s body—we’ve lost his soul.
The law will curse, on reflecting how
He is probably chatting with Satan now,
Enjoying the fire, and feeling well
As he never felt in the noiseless Hell.
And he laughs at the notion of walls to scale —
There’s a shorter way out of Pentridge gaol.
The editor of a Philadelphia newspaper
has contributed £20 towards a fund for purchasing
and preserving Wordsworth’s cottage at Grass-
mere. One of these days the Yanks will buy
Shakespeare’s house for a million sterling and
ship it over to Boston.
It is now an acknowledged fact in London
that it is difficult, if not impossible, to tell the
difference between a prime New Zealand leg of
mutton and that cut from an ordinary English
sheep, and of this the butchers take advantage,
for one seldom costs more than 5d. per lb. whole-
sale, while for the other they would have to pay
8d. per lb.
The Solway Patent Tumhle-over Box
Wool press.
xhis Woolpress is made by T. Robinson and Co.,
Ltd., of Elizabeth-street, Melbourne, and is a
simple and light press of new design, but at the
same time well-tried, and its advantages make it
the coming press for small woolgrowers. As the
accompanying illustration will show, the pressure
is obtained by two short iron levers, each having
two pauls, one retaining, the other releasing, and
these working (one on each side) in a wrought iron
ratchet bar with a loop at the top; this loop is
placed over a strong tree iron plate bolted to the
monkey, or press head, the raising of the levers
lift the releasing or upper paul, and the lowering
engages the paul mentioned, till the operator again
lifts the lever, when the retaining or bottom paul
instantly engages with the ratchet bar and holds
the pressure, and so on, till the bale is sufficiently
pressed. One great advantage attached to this
system is that when the pressure is first placed
upon the wool the resistance is slight and the
operator or operators on the levers may lift them
high and press low at eacli reach so that several
notches may be
put down at each
reach, and as the
resistance in-
creases and to the
finish, a short
stroke is given
and levers made
to maintain about
the position
shown, so that
the pressers may
be able comfortably to put their whole weight
and strength upon them. Avery short stroke
of the levers will enable one notch at
least to be taken. Both the levers project
in the same direction, so that when necessary
one man can operate both at once (one in each
hand) and alone perfectly press a bale. With the '
bale still in, the top portion of press can be turned
down ii)ion its hinges for refilling, while the front-
door and a half door at the back are made to open
so that the bale cap may bo quickly and handily
sown. The advantages claimed are that it
requires in setting; it will stand on the ground
or on any flat spot; for inside working it takes
very little room ; both top and bottom boxes are
filled from the floor ; no staging is required; its
leverage is so great that boys can work it and also
understand it, or when required a man can (single-
Handed) take it asunder and load it in a dray.
This is an important thing amongst small growers,
as one press may be made to do several sheds, and
its most important advantage is that it will press
quicker than any other yet made, and is therefore
alike good for the largest wool-growers. It weighs
in all about Bewt, and price £22 10s.
An attempt to cross the cat with the fox
is reported to have resulted in the production of
an animal with a fox’s head and a cat’s tail, which
combined the bad qualities of both animals. This
specimen of zoology flourished for some time near
Jerilderie (N.S.W.), but was recently executed on
a charge of becoming too expensive. It is a pity
experiment can’t be carried a little further. A
hybrid between a solicitor and an octopus, for in-
stance, would be interesting and instructive; and
a cross between a preacher who is interested in
land syndicates and a bill of sale at 120 per shent
might throw quite anew light on some obscure
moral problems. Also a considerable amount of
interest would attach to the experiment, if it were
possible, to mate a Polynesian missionary with an
’error out of the Evening Noose, and then sit
down and study results.
The difficulties of Thomas Owen, of Mel-
bourne, don’t appear to be so serious as was at first
supposed. He is only being harassed a little about
two chai’ges of shoplifting, nine of housebreaking,
three of assault and robbery, three of stealing
from the person, four of stealing from dwellings,
two of burglary, seven of ordinary theft, one little
case of sacrilege, and two small matters about
bolting out of shops with goods which he hadn’t
paid for. Also one man is raising a considerable
dust about 185 books which were found in Mr.
Owen’s shop, and another is rioting around more
or less on the subject of 31 overcoats. Also some
o'her people seem to have given way to fleshly
passions on matters relating to several hundred
watches, about 40 rings, one gun, seven chisels,
two pairs of spectacles, two saws, and about six
tons of other articles, and away back at the rear
of the procession a person has departed from his
normal state of holy calm in relation to enough
opera glasses and telescopes to start an optician
in a large way of business. Otherwise Mr. Owen
is all right.
“ When you I am Yar away from me,
Donald, drink Innes and Grieve’s fine, old-
matured, and mellow whisky every evening at
regular intervals from 8 until 11, and then when
your lips touch the quaigh you will know that I,
far off among the Bonnie Hills of Scotland, am
also imbibing their Scottish Nectar and thinking
of thee,” said Flora Macgregor, an eloquent High-
land lassie and an uncommonly good judge of
whusky, to Tonald MacTavish, as she bade him
good-bye on Greenock Pier whence he took pas-
sage for Australia.
The “ aural system” of teaching the deaf
and dumb is carried to great perfection just now
in England. I was at the opera the other night
with a deaf young lady, and between the acts 1
addressed a remark to her, to which she replied—
“ Hush ! don’t disturb me. That gentleman in
the box opposite has just proposed to that
lady, and I am watching her lips to see
what she replies.” And what does she reply?”
I continued in a few minutes. “She says,”
replied my astute companion, “ that she is secretly
married already, and has a boy of two.” The
worst of these deaf people is that they can’t judge
how loud they talk themselves, and no sooner had
my friend yelled out the -words “ a boy of two ”
than I perceived to my horror that the gentleman
and lady opposite had caught the sounds. Shortly
after that they left the box, but not together.—
Akgus London Correspondent.
A Wairarapa (N.Z.) justice fined himself
lately: in the sum of £5 17s. for a breach of the
Rabbit Act. It was evident from the astonished
expression of his countenance that he had expected
a smaller sentence, and he was just rising to pro-
test when he ordered himself to sit down. Then
there was a lively struggle between himself in his
private capacity and the other part of him, and
the language he used was so violent that he
ordered himself to leave the court instantly, and
when he refused to go, and said he would see him-
self dashed first, and used disrespectful language
to himself, he got so mad that he rushed down
from the bench and started to throw himself out.
11l the combat which ensued he struck himself
several times and got in heavily on his nose, but
ultimately he lifted himself bodily by the hair and
threw him—in his private capacity—down the
steps and left him partially stunned and using
strong language on the pavement. Then he re-
turned and went on with the business till, after-
wards hearing himself still cursing in the street,
he sent the constable out to warn him to desist,
but that officer presently returned and stated that
he had been unable to find him. He thqn in-
structed the sergeant of police to keep an eye on
him, and in case of any further disturbance to rush
in between him and drag Him apart, and he further
added that if he saw himself doing anything of
the sort a?ain he would fine both of him. A cool-
ness has sprung up between him in consequence of
these events, and that night when he was going
to bed lie assaulted himself violently when he
wasn’t looking, and hit himself a severe blow from
behind.
The high-priest of Venus Cloacena at
Kiama, -N.S.W., nominated himself for an alder-
manship lately. He stood a good show, but
withdrew on finding that if elected he would be
divorced from his nightly occupation.
Wolfe’s Schnapps—popularity increases yearly
To overcome weakness.—Pepper’s Quinine
and Iron Tonic gives new life, appetite, health,
strength, energy. Cures neuralgia, indigestion,
nerve debility. Bottles, 2s. (id. Insist on having
Pepper’s Tonic.
The United States is a nation of traders. Two-
thirds of the business men of the Republic use
Estkubkook's “Falcon” Pen. Samples free at
all Stationeis.
Reliable Watch Repairs. Daii.ms & Co., King-st. Arcade
Many in and out of the city will be pleased to
know that C reelm an and Co., photographers in
the Sydney Arcade, have reduced their charges
for photographs. Cabinets now 15s. per dozen.
Amusement of a profitable nature. Ladies,
make your own dresses by procuring one of our
dress stands ; they are indispensable for altering,
trimming, and re-arranging dresses. They are, in
fact, a household necessity. Wo make them to
fold up so as to go in trunks. Write fur parti-
culars to Eastway Brothers, Dress Stand Makers,
411 George-street, Sydney.
FREETRADE or PROTECTION.
Some vote Protection, some Freetrade,
As best for this young country’s weal.
But ask the youth or blushing maid,
And each will answer— Pemell’s Meal I
As best, because it has been tried,
There’s nothing half so good beside.
His Golden Meal is what I mean,
’Tis good and pure and cheap, I wean.
Reliable Watch Repairs. Daums&Oo., King-st. Arcade,
When Jefferson, the actor, came from
America to Australia, he had a continual wrangle
on the vessel with Father O’Grady, a priest, on
the subject of celibacy. They parted in Sydney,
where they re-met in three years’time. O’Grady
had left the Church and got married. However,
he was on the best of terms with the old establish-
ment.


f
v .
r ~
ABSOLUTELY
PURE,
THEREFORE THE BEST.
m
&• -
s
J
W/A
g
ss//-
1
1
m.
CocO^
ig
w"
tuft'
m
w/?>
Two Days’ Wages.
Part I.— His First Day’s Wages.
Tramp, tramp, tramp!
Two men came slowly and carefully along the
passage of a London hospital, carrying a stretcher
between them. An open window let in the cold
evening air and the deafening noise of the street ;
but they heeded not these things, neither did the
stifling atmosphere of the theatre seem to affect
their senses. The theatre door stood ajar, and
the men cast a glance at the operation-table as
they walked on with their burden. They came to
the door of a ward, and halted for a minute. One
of them bent down, and lifted up a dark-brown
blanket that lay across the stretcher.
“ I’ve a little lad at home no bigger than this
one ” he said, apologetically to his companion.
“ He can’t be more than twelve, I should say, to
look at him. My little lad was eleven last Christ-
-10 “ What is it ?” inquired the other, using hospital
jargon.
“Can’t say,” was the answer. “He was run
' over by a cab while selling newspapers in the
last speaker then replaced the blanket,
opened the ward-door, and called out “Number
six!” . .
There was a stir amongst the patients. Men
turned their heads towards the door, wondering
who lay on the stretcher. Number seven fixed his
languid eyes on the brown blanket. Number five
stopped playing chess with Number 20, and leant
on his elbow to watch what would happen. Then
came a hush of expectation, broken by the groans
of the newspaper-boy and the voice of the hos-
pital sister, who was giving orders to the nurses.
A screen was placed round the bed, almost before
the men could see the face of the new patient, but
Number five caught a glimpse of the little lad, and
he rubbed his forehead thoughtfully as he asked,
“ Whose move is it?”
The evening wore away, but the screen was not
moved from the bed of Number six. Doctors
came into the ward, and disappeared behind the
screen, the nurses looked grave, and the sister
seemed anxious. So the patients guessed that
Number six was a bad case ; and a few words from
the house-surgeon confirmed their suspicions.
“ Have you found out anything about him,
sister ? ” the young man asked.
“Nothing.”
“ Sorry for that. He won’t live till morning.”
The doctor then walked towards the sister’s
room, saying something about “a special” for
Number six.
Before long the gas was turned low, and every-
thing was put in order for the night. Afterwards
the ward was very quiet. Nothing disturbed the
patients but an occasional groan from a man who
could not sleep, or the cry of someone who had
started up from a nightmare, and had found his
limbs tightly bandaged. The peculiar odour that
tells of surgical operations grew stronger as the
hours wore on, and the breath of twenty men
made the air heavy, although the windows were
partly open. Inside the ward the patients could
distinguish the night nurse’s footstep; outside
they could only hear the dull roar of distant carts
and voices. Now and then a railway-whistle
broke the stillness; rarer still was the nurse’s
voice as she moved about among the patients.
A “ special ” sat beside the bed of Number six ;
but she was hidden by the screen, and if the night
nurse had not sometimes spoken to her, in a
whisper, the patients would not have been aware
of her presence.
The hospital clock struck eleven.
The last stroke had scarcely fallen when a
woman pushed open the door of the ward. She
advanced slowly, with uncertain steps, and stood
quite still when she saw the nurse.
“ They told me I should find ray boy here,” she
said, in a low, frightened voice. “He’s not bad,
is he? He’s but little to go out selling papers,
but I’ve fourlittler than he, and the baby’s ill, and
we’ve nothing in the house.”
The nurse looked at the thin, worn face of the
mother, and then towards the screen that hid the
bed of Number Six.
“Your boy was run over in the street,” she
said.
“Yes, ma’am,” said the woman, “they told me
about it downstairs. I looked everywhere for him
after dark, and the policeman sent me here.
Where is he? Ever since his father died he’s been
wanting to help me and talking about what he’d
do when he got his first day’s wages. Let me gto
to him, ma’am. If anything happens to him it
will break my heart; where is he ?”
Before the nurse could answer, the screen was
pushed aside and the “special” came towards
them saying,
“ The boy is dead.”
“ Dead !” echoed the mother, “ dead !”
She stumbled to the screen and fell on her knees
beside the bed.
“So this is your first day’s wages, my darling,”
she said.
Pakt ll.— His Last Day’s Wages.
“Hail, Mary, full of grace ; blessed art thou
amongst women, and blessed is the fruit of thy
womb.”
The words were repeated again and again by a
man who was kneeling in a corner of a little
Catholic church in the East-end of London.
The beads dropped one by one through the
man’s fingers, and his lips moved mechanically
until he came to his last “Hail, Mary.”. Then
he bowed his head, and made the sign oif the cross.
The church was dimly lighted, so it was impos-
sible to see his face; but his tall, lean figure was
visible, and his iron-grey hair. Presently he
picked up an old hat that lay on the floor beside
him, and made his way to a crucifix. Then he
knelt down again.
“ God have mercy on me,” he prayed. “ Mother
of God, have mercy on my little children ! ”
After that he left the church. He went to a
bread-shop, bought a loaf, and went on home.
His face was grey with hunger, but he said to
himself that he was scarcely hungry, only foot-
sore and tired. The loaf mustdo for the children’s
supper and for the children’s breakfast.
It had not always been with him like this. He
could remember the day when he walked proudly
along the streets, feeling sure of employment. But
times had changed since then, and now he was
out of work. Moreover, his wife had been driven
into the lunatic asylum by hunger and trouble,
leaving him with four little boys and a baby girl
that must be clothed, housed, and fed. He was
father and mother in one to five children, the
youngest of whom was but a baby. His wife had
lost her reason after her last confinement; and
since then all things had seemed to go wrong with
him.
A few Fours later he was sitting in a small room,
lighted by a-dip candle. On the table was half of
the loaf —the children’s break r ast. Beside him, in
a wooden cradle, was his youngest child, the one
that had cosf his wife her reason. He could hear
it breathing. The other boys-lay on an old mat-
tress, fast asleep, but restless. One of them said,
“Father!” and he rose up to see what the child
wanted. But by the time he reached the bed,
and bent down, shading the candle with his hand,
the boy was asleep again. He stood watching the
children, and while he looked a spasm of pain
contorted his face. He threw a hungry glance, at
the bread on the table—the children’s breakfast ;
then he snuffed out the candle with his fingers,
drew the leather belt tighter round his waist, and
lay down on the mattress. He could not sleep,
for hunger was gnawing his stomach; but he
listened to the children breathing, and he waited
for daybreak.
Half-past seven o’clock found him at the London
Docks. It was a month since lie had been
“ taken on ” there ; but he came there every morn-
ing, and when he found that he con’d not get a job
there, he went to look for work in the market.
In he went, through the gates, with the rest;
and this time lie was taken on, A smile passed
over his grey face as he straightened himself, and
followed the other men. But he felt his legs
shaking under him, and the ships seemed to be
dancing up and clown. The sun, that was rising
like a red ball in the east, danced before his eyes.
He rubbed his sleeve against his forehead and
staggered on, saying nothing to anyone. Once he
very nearly fell into the water and only saved
himself by catching hold of an tlvr man, who
called him “a bloody idiot,” which was meant as
a term of endearment. The smile came over his
face again. That night ho would give the chil-
dren a treat; they should have more than bread
for their supper.
No one seemed to guess that no food had passed
his lips for almost a week. He worked on in
silence, and, when the dinner-bell rang, he stag-
gered to a lonely plage while the other men ate
their dinner. Orders seemed to travel to him from
a long distance, and his movements were so un-
steady that the other men laughed, thinking that
he must be tipsy. But he managed to do his work,
and the foreman did not grumble.
At last it was time to go homo.
Jostled by the other men, lie went through the
warehouses, and arrived at the pay-house. Ho
held out his hand for the money, and, having
received it,die slipped the shillings into his empty
pocket.
“Pass on,” said a voice beh'nd him.
“Make way,” cried someone.
“Pick him up,” exchi’med half-a-dozen dockers.
“He’s dead, or fainted.”
He had fallen on the ground, in front of the pay-
house, fallen with a heavy thud, just after slipping
the shillings into his pocket.
“Call a policeman,” suggested a man.
Two tall policemen lifted him up and carried
him through the dock-gates to the nearest coffee-
shop. A crowd of dockers followed him. Was
he drunk ? Was he dead ? Had he fainted ? No
one could tell for certain. He was laid oh a table
in the coffee-house and guarded by a policeman,
until the nearest doctor could be fetched. Mean-
while they emptied his pockets, hoping to find his
address. But the pockets only held a few shillings.
The money was counted and placed on the table.
“May I never see a corpse again if he’s not
dead,” remarked the mast: r of the coffee-house.
“Make room for the doctor,” cried several
voices.
“He’s dead, sir,” explained the policeman.
“ Allow me to see for myself,” said the doctor.
They unbuckled the leather-belt that had kept
famine at bay, and the doctor made his examina-
tion with a professional air, talking to himself,
taking no notice of the policeman, or of the master
of the coffee-house.
“ Yes, the man is dead,” he said at last,
“Heart-disease,” suggested the master of the
coffee-house.
“No, starvation,” said the doctor, grimly.
‘ Whose coin is this ? ” he continued, taking two
shillings from the table, and laying them on the
docker’s closed eyelids.
“It’s the dead man’s money, sir,” said the
policeman —“ his last day’s wages.”
J.L.— In Pall Mall Gazette.
An English syndicate, capital £lO,OOO, has
been formed, under the auspices of one Calvert, to
cut put an alleged 4|-millioh gold-deposit in West
Australia. Calvert is going to consign his millions
to the Bank of England. The English can’t be
one of the lost tribes. If they were they’d be less
credulous.
A correspondent of a Sydney daily paper
writes to prove that Joseph Arch, the English
labourer's friend, is a humbug. “I presided,” he
says, “at a public meeting at Ipswich. I heard
Mr. Arch receive cheers when he vowed no man
could beat him at farming work, and ho drank no
beer. A few hours later on as he was going to
bed he asked mo to oblige him by securing a bottle
of port wine, and by taking it to his bedroom.
He felt so depressed he must have some more.”
Judge Chubb, of Queensland, came down
to the” court, the other day, with smothered
thunder in his aspect and dashed himself down on
the bench in a bloodthirsty way which suggested
that he was about to throw himself bodily at
somebody, and when the court was duly opened,
this irritated man made a statement. It then
transpired that some ignorant clod on horseback
had come up to his house at a gallop and had
hollered out: “Does Chubb live here?” Being
informed that Judge Chubb resided in a judicial
manner on these premises and was accessible when
approached in a gentlemanly fashion, the soulless
mass of dirt then threw a letter in a disrespectful
sort of way on the verandah, and immediately
afterwards removed his offensive carcase off the
landscape. His manners throughout seemed
to imply that ho didn’t care a hang, and
after seeing him Judge Chubb naturally felt
that he would prefer to have . his letters
delivered in future by a gorilla. Or, if the
gorilla wasn’t handy, the correspondence could
be brought round by a naked cannibal, and failing
that any person who wished to communicate with
him and didn’t know enough to prevent him
from shrieking for plain “ Chubb” in the
street had better employ a hog or some other
animal with a sense of propriety about it, as an
intermediary. Further, apart from the galloping
and shrieking, it was highly irregular that any
alleged human being who seemed to have been
educated on an ash-heap should dash the judge’s
correspondence down on any verandah, and then
depart as if he thought that judicial functionary
had got hydrophobia, and was likely to rush after
him and bite him. The whole proceeding was
eminently disrespectful, and it was .hoped: that a,
repetition would be avoided, otherwise something
of a sudden nature might take place when it was
least expected.


PAIR WHITE HANDS.
BRIGHT CLEAR COMPLEXION.
SORT HEALTHFUL SKIN.
ƒ
FOE
TOILET & NURSERY.
—"" ' »
Specially Prepared for the delicate skin of Ladies and Children and
others sensitive to the weather (winter or summer). Redness,
Roughness and Chapping prevented.
“
Era. LANGTRY.
“ I have much pleasure in stating that I have
used your Soap for some time, and prefer it to any
other.”
(Signed) LILLIE LANGTRY.
Miss MARY ANDERSON.
“ I have used it two years with the greatest
satisfaction, for I find it the very best.”
(Signed) MARY ANDERSON.
Mdrae. MARIE ROZE MAPLBSON.
“For preserving the complexion, keeping the
skin soft, free from redness and roughness, and
the hands in nice condition, it is the finest Soap
in the world.”
(Signed) MARIE ROZE.
Mdme. ADELINA PATTI,
“I have found it matchless for the hands and
complexion.”
(Signed) ADELINA PATTI.
Rev. ti. WARD BEECHER.
“ If cleanliness is next to godliness, soap must
be considered as a means of grace, and a clergy-
man who recommends moral things should be
willing to recommend soap. lam told that my
commendation of Pears’ Soap has opened for it
a large sale in the United States. 1 am willing
to stand by every word in favour of it that I ever
uttered. A man must be fastidious indeed who
is hot satisfied with it.”
(Signed) HENRY WARD BEECHER.
Sir ERASMUS WILSON, F.R.S.
(Late President of the Royal College of Surgeons of
England.)
Writes in the Journal op Cutaneous Medicine :
“ The use of a good soap is certainly calculated
to preserve the skin in health, to maintain its
complexion and tone, and prevent its falling into
wrinkles . . . PEARS is a name engraven on
the memory of the oldest inhabitant; and Pears’
Transparent Soap is an article of the nicest and
most careful manufacture, and one of the most
refreshing and agreeable of balms for the skin.”
fa,
$
MS
9
<■
%
m
w
<zz
m
r'-.:^;«!
I
2hi
TjWjj
CTIf
ja**
s.\
A Rig-lit Royal Toast.—A Story of Maori
Hospitality.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
“ The eminent scientist, Dr. Blubber, has
just given to the world his long-looked-for work,
‘The Birds of New Zealand,”’ announced the
London correspondent of a daily paper some days
ago. “ It is magnificently illustrated in colours and
only a limited number have been printed. The
work appears in three vols., beautifully-bound,
the price being ten guineas. Excepting a few
copies reserved by the author, the entire publica-
tion has already been sold. Her Majesty the
Queen has been presented with a copy.”
At last, thought I, “ The Birds of New Zea-
land,” in face of many obstacles, has seen the
light. I meant the book, for the birds about
which it was written had seen the light, many of
them, perhaps, long before I did. Some years ago,
in New Zealand, I had met Dr. Blubber when he
was preparing the material for his great work, and
our acquaintance was made about the time when
one of the obstacles or reverses of which I have
spoken occurred.
It was in the month of May, some eight or nine
years ago—l really forget the year ; but it was
about the time when, after some 20 years of isola-
tion, the Kingite Maoris had agreed to break
down the barrier of reserve and mix freely with
the Europeans across the border.
To fittingly celebrate the occasion and to
formally throw open the King country—that vast
tract of beautiful land which extends from the
slopes of stately Pirongia and the majestic
heights of Maungatautara right through the
island to the feet of Egmont itself —to mark with
fitting ceremony this great event, King Tawhiao
convened what he called his “ Great May Meet-
ing,” to be held on the banks of the Waipa in the
royal township of Whatiwhatihoe. Across the
river and under the shadow of the great mountain
nestled Alexandra, ultima thule of civilisation.
Here during the war the British forces had formed
their most advanced outposts and built the last
redoubt of a long line extending from Auckland
tothePinui River. There was—and is now for
aught I know —a solitary hotel in the settlement
presided over by one Tom Einch—Goldfinch we
used to call him, from a desire on his part to
always get the cash in advance. Here gathered,
at the first intimation of the opening of the Kins
Country, the usual herd of vultures who in variou.
ways swoop down on the Maori, endow him with
what they call “advantages of civilisation,” and
by way of compensation nibble up his heritage to
the last acre. The land of the King country was
supposed to be of the best, the hills were rich in
gold; the very finest timber was alleged to exist in
the dense forests, coal abounded, and the deep
forest glades were reputed to be alive with the
rarest and most beautiful birds.
So at Tom Finch’s hostelry were lodged land-
sharks, gold-hunters, speculators, newspaper cor-
respondents, ornithologists, jobbers, lawyers, as
varied and representative a lot of the “ pioneers of
civilisation ” as ever gathered under one roof. The
accommodation being limited, the lion had to lie
down with the lamb, and as I was one of the
latter, the adage was fulfilled in my case by having
to sandwich myself on a gigantic shake-down
between an attorney and a Mormon missionary.
We were all there waiting the permission to ad-
vance ; and it was while so doing that I first made
tire acquaintance of the author of the “Birds of
New Zealand.”
“ j am going into the bush to-morrow,” he said
to me one night; “ I’m going to get a few speci-
mens of birds for my collection. As you know, 1
am compiling my second work on the ‘ Birds of
New Zealand, ’ and as many of our best specimens
are dyj n g ou * iam naturally anxious to get what
i can for my mU seum as soon as possible. The
bush around Pirongia, I am told, contains a good
representative collection ; and so I’ll pitch my
camp there for a wee k 0 r two. ”
“ Alone ? ’I asked.
“Practically,” he’replied, “unless you favour
me with your’company, if you feel interested in
work like mine.”
\ was flighted with the opportunity. The next
morning our camp equipage was packed on a
couple of horses; our guides set out in front to
lead the way ; and before nightfall w 6 pitched our
tent in the heart of the forest beside a little brook-
let, surrounded by Nature in all her beauty and
freshness. The thousand little songsters extended
us their warmest greeting; and the mosquitoes
gave us a welcome which, in any other country,
must surely be reserved for royalty,
As tq, e plumage of the birds had to be re-pro-
duced on costly plates, and the birds preserved for
presentation to the colonial and British museums,
our first duty was to erect a temporary aviary out
of the material at hand, and this completed, we
went to work in earnest. For days we laboured
incessantly, setting snares and trapping our game,
Every day added different specimens to our collec-
tion ; and the utmost care had to be taken that
our little prisoners did not destroy each other,
The doctor was gratified beyond his fondest anti-
cipations. For over a fortnight we toiled together
in that wild solitude, dragging our weary limbs
along through the dense undergrowth. Wet or
dry our work proceeded. At the end of the second
week, when we gazed at our collection, our ecstasy
knew no bounds. All the most beautiful birds for
which the island colony was remarkable were re-
presented in our collection. The only thing to be
done was to get them to a place of security ; and
this was an undertaking which required great
care. We ultimately decided to leave our Maori
boy in charge while we went into Alexandra to
order cages. Our clothes were badly torn, our
limbs scratched and lacerated, and the constant
exposure to the wet bush had brought on colds
which, in others less strongly constituted, might
have terminated in a galloping consumption,
m * *
ri , . ... ~ , m u-
was about this time that King lawhiao
announced his great bird-feast, to which all the
leading Europeans of the colony were invited,
Special invitations were sent to the Governor, the
Ministry, the Mayors of boroughs, and all other
functionaries. A special invitation was also
extended to Dr. Blubber and myself. We were
informed that the King’s cooks had been out on a
shooting and trapping expedition in the ranges for
some days, and that the bird-feast would be the
grandest ever given in the records of IS ew Zealand
royalty.
The bird-feast, as it was called, was a purely
royal institution. Some hundreds of birds of
various kinds, mostly pigeons, were plucked and
cleaned and then treated to the steaming process
known as “Orapu Maori.” When done in this
fashion, birds, whether carrion or spring chicken,
are a dish fit “to lay before a king.” The flesh
falls from the frame in rich, juicy shreds, and the
small bones make a succulent and dainty morsel.
On arriving at our hotel we found the invitations
awaiting us. As we wished to ingratiate ourselves
into the good graces of Tawhiao, we accepted the
invitation to the feast without hesitation. The
following morning, dressed in our best, we set out
in state on tWo borrowed horses, and, with a
number of other “distinguished Europeans ” made
a kind of triumphal entry into the royal township
of Whatiwhatihoe. Our way was directed to the
Senate-house known as the “Rununga,” where
we were formally received by his Majesty, who,
in compliment to his guests, wore trousers for the
occasion. The royal standard (which I sub;e-
quently ascertained v. as the Queen’s petticoat)
floated in the breeze above; and when I was pre-
sented to his Majesty, and made my profoundest
bow, I felt that the proudest moment of my life
was at hand.
Dinner with Royalty ! My happiness knew no
limits. Come death itself, what cared I for the
terrors of the next world ! I had attained the
acme of happiness in this.
The bell rang, the korero ceased, and out filed
the guests to the bird-feast on the lawn without. I
escorted on my arm the Princess Mere Whatatutu,
while the doctor had the extreme honour of bring-
ing along the Queen, the fair and graceful Pohaere,
neatly attired in a mackintosh and a boxer-hat.
As the Maoris bidden to the feast outnumbered
the Europeans by about twenty to one, our opera-
tions at the festive board were confined to a squint
at the savoury heap through the legs of our enter-
tainers. Though we had come prepared with
whetted appetites we didn’t complain.
At last the scramble ended, and the Doctor was
called upon to propose the health of the King,
who by this time had discarded his trousers for
a kind of primitive kilt.
“ We have assembled here to-day,” said the
little Doctor, inflated as much with his own im-
portance as with the magnitude of the occasion;
“ we are met here to-day, gentlemen, to do honour
to our friend Tawhiao, and to celebrate a great
political epoch, the opening of the King country.
(Cheers.) His Majesty has provided us with a
most excellent feast, which I for one have greatly
enjoyed ; and for which I, on your behalf, beg to
return him our most sincere thanks. (Loud
cheers.) The dish of which we have this day par-
taken proves that in the birds of New Zealand, we
have not only exquisite beauty but also rare
quality and flavour. (Great cheering.) Gentle-
men, t give you ‘The King.’” (Loud and pro-
longed cheering.)
His Majesty was then drunk (quite drunk), and
the company, perfectly pleased with itself, pro-
ceeded to break up.
* * *
“IsayTui, where did you get all those
delicious birds that you cooked for the feast ? ”
asked the doctor of an aged Maori as we wended
our way through the royal demesne.
“Kapai—Maori plenty of birds,” said the
ancient. “ Any amount in the bush. Maori man
get ’em plenty of nice fat pigeons, plenty tui,
plenty kiwi, plenty weka.”
“Do you know the place?” asked the doctor,
growing quite agitated with the prospect of
another haul.
“Yes, yes”—our ancient knew the very spot.
He could bring us there in less than no time. We
offered to pay handsomely if he would take us to
the place to-morrow. Yes, he was agreeable. He
would show the pakeha rangatiras where there was
a perfect mine of wealth of the rarest specimens.
The following morning Tui kept his appoint-
ment. At daybreak we started with all our
available snaring paraphernalia and provisions for
two days. Into the bush we dived; and on
through the semi-darkness we went. Should we
never come to the place ? At last we halted. The
country seemed familiar. The doctor was on pins
and needles, eager for work. His eyes twinkled
with visions of the bagful which wo were to carry
away to swell his museum collections and illus-
trate his book. Happy, happy doctor !
Down an open ravine we dive, the horses
scarcely able to keep their feet, and on we press
over the opposite ridge through the dense under-
growth. At last we strike a beaten track and
press quickly forward.
“Why, we’re on the old beat !” I ventured to
remark as, turning in the saddle, I am confronted
with the white face of the doctor, full of mis-
givings.
“I think so,” he replied, with a sickening
attempt at a smile.
The next minute the guide brought us right in
front of our own aviary, which we had erected with
such pains and filled with the proceeds of our
fortnight’s industry.
The Maori boy we had left in charge had de-
serted ; the wattle-door had been burst open ; and
not a single feather was to be seen anywhere. Our
fortnight’s work had gone for nothing !
“There !”said our guide, pointing his big black
finger at the ruin in front of us ; “ Plenty of birds;
any amount.” He had the audacity to extend his
hand for the reward.
I tried to smile, but the attempt was a failure ;
the doctor coughed and turned away ; while the
native filled in the interval with a little musical
levity, which, under the circumstances, was rank
sacrilege.
There was no doubting the fact —it was palpable.
The King’s cooks in search of material for their
bird-feast had stumbled across our collection and
had annexed it bodily. But what was more and
what was worse, we of all people had helped to eat
it and had actually returned thanks for being
allowed to do so.
“ Wasn’t it sickenin’? ”
J. F. EDGAR.
The most Conservative paper in Australia
publishes the bitterest London social letters on
aristocracy.
' .
The Amalgamated Shearers’ L mon intend
to add a benefit fund to their membership, and to
organise the “rouseabouts ” during the forth -
coming season.
Massachusetts State has passed a law that
no man, woman or child shall imbibe intoxicating
liquors in a public place “while standing.” The
j aw sayg drink shall only be served with “ meat ”
an d j n a sitting position.
_ _ j .
Dear Bulletin, —That little story about
Dibbs is neither new nor true. It was told about
a greater man than Mr. Dibbs—viz., Bismarek,
who, when the Germans entered Paris, was
frowned on by the few who recognised him, and
just in a spirit of fun, or perhaps dare-devilry,
went over to one of the crowd and asked for a
match. It might never have happened, in Bis-
march’s career any more than it did in Dibbs’,
but the story is told in a recent number of the
Nineteenth Century magazine by Blenner-
hasset.—A Bui lbtin Reader. [Bismarck pro-
bably borrowed it from Dibbs. Or, perhaps, each
did it independently of the other. Geniuses often
jump together. —Ed. B.]


Great Medical Reform!
Consult (FREE) HERR RASBMUSSEN, the Celebrated Danish Herbalist,
Expert Specialist in all Private Complaints, Barrenness and Nervous Diseases.
—
%
V"
*
%
%
A
t
\
%
W
(%
R
H
S
0
H
V
I
T
A
L
I
T
V
\jjtp
; H # H
f
0 &l
ƒ
#
*B*
msm.
Resb
iTALUY
A Guaranteed Cure
for
Nbevous Debility and
Lost Vitality.
225. 6d. per Course.
Smaller Box ss. 6d.
Only Herbalist in Australia
That has received “Gold Medal” for Great Cures Performed, and is Honourably Mentioned in the “Centennial History of New South Wales ’
for Great Herbal Discoveries ; and who can prove that he has CURED OVER 20,000 PATIENTS.
Sole Proprietor and Discoverer of the Celebrated
DEKTMARK VITALITY PTTJ.fi, Registered,
V Inch have been the means of Curing so many Thousands of Sufferers from Nervous Debility, Lost Vitality, Errors, Weakness, Despondency,
Impure Blood. 22s. 6d. per Course ; Smaller Box, 5s. 6d
G-en.uin.e Testimonials.
To KERR RASSMUSSEN.—Dear Sir, —Tina is to certify that you
cured me of a very serious blood disease, after many doctors had
tailed.-JOHN REYNOLDS, Chappel-street, Leichhardt, Sydney.
To HERR RASSMUSSEN, the celebrated Danish Herbalist.—Dear
Benefactor,—l have much pleasure to inform the public that you
my wife of an internal complaint of a very serious nature after
all the doctors had given her up.—ARCHIBALD MACFARLANE
Eden Cottage, Barney-street, Armidale.
To HERR RASSMUSSEN, Specialist in Nervous Diseases. Dear
Sir,—l hereby thank you for the great cure you performed on me for
a very complicated nervous affection, and I shall always recommend
you to sufferers from Nervous Debility.—PHlLLlP STEAD 54 Parra-
matta-road, Annandale, Sydney.
To HERR RASSMUSSEN, Danish Herbalist.—Dear Sir and Bene-
factor,—lt gives me great pleasure to testify to your wonderful skill
m the treatment of Disease. You cured me of a terrible complaint
after the doctors gave me up, and although it is four years since, I am
as well as ever. I shall recommend you to all.—Yours, gratefully A.
RAMSDEN, Great Western Coffee Palace, Castlereagh-street, Sydney!
'■£° HERR RASSMUSSEN, Specialist in Nervous Diseases.—Dear
Sir, — I hereby certify that I have been under your skilful treatment
for a very obstinate case of nervous debility, and that you cured me
with one course of your Vitality Pills.—D. M‘NEILL, Hornsbv
Junction, N.S.W.
W7c
Opinions of the Press.
It is a well-known fact that HERR RASSMUSSEN, the Celebrated
Danish Herbalist, has performed many grin' nres during the past few
years, as his numerous testimonials will'p Sydney Bulletin.
x
HERR RASSMUSSEN.—We have been shown some excellent Testi-
monials of the great cures performed by Herr Rassmussen, the cele-
brated Danish Herbalist.— Australian Star.
HERR RASSMUSSEN has now been established in the colonies
for 10 years.— Sunday Times, April 28, 1888.
HERR RASSMUSSEN has become a celebrity in the curing of all
diseases of the nervous system., His name has become a wonder
throughout the Southern Hemisphere. He was presented with a Gold
Medal for some of his miraculous cures.— Balmain Leader, May 12,1888.
HERR RASSMUSSEN.—The remarkable cures which he has effected
are pretty generally known.— Balmain Observer, April 28,1888.
We are perpetually receiving letters irom HERR RASSMUSSEN’S
cured patients requesting us to make known to the public ttm wonder-
ful medical skill this remarkable man possesses, and he has just been
presented with a Gold Medal from several of his cured patients.
—Sydney Weekly News, May 26, 1887.
Herr Rassmussen’s Herbal Remedies. (REGISTERED.
DENMARK V ITALITY PILLS.—Guaranteed to cure Nervous Debility, Lost Vitality, Errors of Youth and Despondency. Price, 22s. 6d. per full course ; small box, 5s. 6d.
DENMARK FEMALE RESTORER PILLS.—Guaranteed to cure all complaints peculiar to Females, Irregularities, and eradicates complaints which cause barrenness.
Price, 22s. 6d. per course ; small box, 5s. 6d.
LOCK CURE PILLS. Guaranteed to Cure all diseases of the blood, discharges, sores, and strictures. Price, 22s. 6d. per course ; small box, 5s. 6cL
CONSULTATION AND ADVICE FREE.
All the above remedies are made of PURE HERBS, and are forwarded unobserved. A valuable treatise on Nervous Debility, Private Complaints, and Barrenness, sent
free, on receipt of 4d stamped addressed envelope. Consultation personally or by post, free. Patients are examined with the aid of the Microscope.
Address: - Herr BASSMUSSEN the Danish Herbalist,
Corner G-ordon-street & Park-road, PaddLixxgtozi, Sydney,
TRAMS—Take Paddington Tram to Paddington Tram Waiting-room.
-
$
\
%
%
%
%
\%
t
%
I
%
*
V
I
T
A
L
II
IT
If
vjlClS
;nt
UltH
✓
0 l
# #il
A
&
(0
mam.
Restores
ITALiTY
A Guaranteed Cure
for
Nervous Debility and
Lost Vitality.
225. 6d. per Course.
Smaller Box ss. 6d.
y
FLETCHER’S GAS COOKING STOVES.
FLETCHER’S ASBESTOS FIRES.
H A DCU FI E RANGES, with H.P. BOILERS.
Cliandellers, Hall Lights, Brackets (a Large Assortment).
FENDERS & FIRE BRASSES.
MLEAN BROS. & RIGG, LID.,
512 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
rpHE COLONIAL MUTUAL LIFE ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED.
X :<■ "i 11 ■; — - • ■ > ; , .
BRANCHES THROUGHOUT THE COLONIES AND THE UNITED KINGDOM.
POLICIES issued under the Ordinary, ]VIotTified Tonline and Mortuary Dividend Systems.
WATSON’S
PILLS
HEALTH for the MILLION !
Mild, Aperient, Antihilious
Pills, purely vegetable
in their composition,
are particularly recommended to either sex, where a
gentle, but effective aperient is required. These Pills
are invaluable for all complaints of the Stomach. and
Liver, speedily removing sick headache, biliousness,
indigestion, etc., and cleansing the
blood of all impurities. To Ladies
these pills will be found invaluable.
One trial is sufficient to prove their vast superiority
over all others. Sold by all Chemists, and Storekeepers.
Price Xs. per box. Prepared solely by John Watson,
Chemist, George Street, Sydney.
Wholesale Agents j
Messrs. Elliott Bros., S. Hopfnung & Co., Australian
Drug Co., Fieldiiam Gothelf & Co., Myers & Solomon,
Tillocii 8f Co. and J. R. Love & Co..
Dr. ALEXANDER PATERSON, Ml.,
(F.K.C.S., Ed.; M.IM'.S., Eng.,)
SPECIALIST.
157 Elizabeth Street, Hyde Park,
SYDNEY.
JC. HIOOWIC'I >V SOX, Manufacturers and Ini
a porters of Superior Oak-Tannkii I.katiikk Hkltixo,
and every description of Leather Goods for Minim;' and
Engineering purposes.
f
ƒ
All Goods bearing the above Trade Mark are warranted
to give entire satisfaction, or may be returned at the
Makers’ expense. The Pioneer Oak-tanned Leather
Belting is used exclusively by the N.S.W. Government.
Over 200,000 running in Australia. The cheapest and
best Belting in the world. Send for prices and catalogues
162 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
A. BOWMAN’S
LONDON MADE
Porpoke Hide Boots
Are Reduced from 30s. to 21s.
249 PITT ST., SYDNEY, Near Tattersall’s.
Porpoise Hide Wear; Twice as Long
as any other Leather.
They _ are noted all over London,
Birmingham and Liverpool.
Londion Fasliiona,
AND
Fresh Goods Every Fortnight.
Trade Supplied Wholesale at a Great Advantage.
ML
TERING COMPANY. LTD
(Late Gunsler’s Cafe)
175 Pitt Street, Sydney,
WISH their former Patrons and the Public Generally to know that their Saloons have been Entirely Reorganised, and shall be glad if they will
JAMES 0. MAEQUAND, Manager-
their new cusine a trial.


CROTH
PAPER-HANGINGS.
Oi is.C6lours St Paints
WML PAPERS From 3°
, Ptp
nCLL
m
29 Ge
m
wan
f
TURPIN & BRIAN,
TViiolesale and Family Grocers,
623 George Street, Sydney,
ARE THE
CHEAPEST CJKOC'EKS In tile CITY!
A Trial Solicited,
WHITE SUGAR, 2|d. per lb.
ROLLER ELOUR, ss. 501 b. bag.
SPERMS, sd.
MAIR’S SPICED & PRIED HERRINGS,
6|d. per tin.
Large Bottle W. SAUCE, 6d.
„ PICKLES, 6d.
COCOA, 4Jd. per packet.
41b. Bar SOAP, 6d.
NEW DATES, 3d. per lb.
i SARDINES, 3s. 9d. per dozen.
Box TEA, 10s. 6d., good and cheap.
51b. WHITE SUGAR and 11b. TEA, 2s.
NOTE THE ADDRESS:
623—George Street—623
Haymarket, SYDNEY.
(Opposite Square and Compass Hotel.)
JJISTORY OF BOTANY BAY
I
asm Em a co.,
TEA IMPORTERS
AND
BLENDERS,
FOOCHOW and SYDNEY.
Office and Sample Rooms:
385 Pitt Street, Sydney.
tST" Agents Wanted in every Town throughout
the Colony.
D. C. Xi.
VERY = OLD = SPECIAL
SCOTCH = WHISKY.
DISTILLERIES CO. (Limited).
ƒ
UMBRI: LLAS
RE-COVE RE 0.
STUDY ECONOMY
and
Have your Umbrella Frames
Re-Covered, and your
Parasols Re-Lined and made
Equal to New, at
J. SULLIVAN’S,
541 George Street,
Briokfikld Hill, Stdnry,
between
Liverpool & Bathurst Sts. ,
Parasols made to match Cos-
tumes. Repairs neatly done.
JOHN BUCKH A IVI-
-449 ELIZABETH STREET, MELBOURNE.
TENT, Tarpaulin, and Waterproof Cover
Manufacturer. Horse Rugs, Loin Covers,
Oilskin Coats, Cab Aprons, Marquees (with or
' without flooring and flags) for sale or hire.
JOHN BUOKHAM MELBOURNE.
Oldest established house in the trade.
When ordering please mention this paper.]
ALLAN A. MARSHALL & CO.,
Engineers, Coppersmiths, Brass and Bell Founders,
Finishers, Plumbers, Ship & General Smiths,
Gasfittbrs, Art & Mediaeval Metal Worker
ROLLER SKATES (any make) with BRASS or WOODEN WHEELS.
Verity’s Gas Fires, Heaters and Ventilators at greatly Reduced Prices— 11,000 Fires already in use
Importers and Manufacturers of Diving Gear, Yacht and Boat Work of every description in
Iron or Brass, Ships’ Single and Double Action Valve Closets, Fire Hydrants, Hose and all appliances
Bon Accord Works, 9 Macquarie Place, Sydney.
TaulorBro
.HIGHLY IMUTRNJVt
oeoa
MAY til OBTAINED IN LABELLED TINS OH- FAUKETS THROUliHUU-TTHE COLONY.
NOW ACKNOWLEDGED
THE BEST
IN THE MARKET
f
WHISKY
SOLD
EVERYWHERE
NI.VV.tCS
Hole A cents: JAMES MOIR&C 0., 58Margarefc-st., Sydney
Eucalypte Oiusa.
THE TREE OF LIFE.
Victory Ointments
Ouncan Ross,
The Great American Athlete,
CURED of INFLUENZA by using COLEMANE & SONS-
EUCALYPTE EXTRACT.
DON’T BE DECEIVED.
If you want the best Medicine the world has ever pro-
duced, try Colemane & Sons’ Eucalypti: Extract— there
are no ten medicines equal to it. It is one of Nature’s
greatest gifts to mankind. It is the only known cure for
Asthma, Consumption, Bronchitis, and all affections of
the Chest and Lungs. For Palpitation of the Heart,
Gravel and Kidney complaints it has no equal. Fevers of
all kinds, Coughs, Colds, Rheumatism, etc., are banished
by its use. Awarded Medals and Diplomas Adelaide,
Sydney and Melbourne, beating all competitors. Singers
and public speakers will find C. and Sons’ Eucalypti;
Honey a wonder. fW Be sure and get Colemane and
Sons.
A POSITIVE CURE.
T\R. BOHANNAN’S Curative Remedies for all Private
Nervous, and Special Complaints. Always reliable.
Descriptive chart sent, sealed, for two stamps. Address
Hotel Metropole Pharmacy, Phillip-street, Sydney,
N.S.W.
SEND FOR Dr. PERRY’S FAMOUS WORK ON DISEASES OF THE REPRODUCTIVE ORGANS, FREE ON APPLICATION.
SELF-^JLAJST.A-GrEJVCElTT-
consult DR PERRY, M.R.C.S., L.S.A., etc.
(REGISTERED BY THE MEDICAL BOARD OF NEW SOUTH WALES),
Late House Surgeon to the Great Northern Hospital, Caledonian Road, London,
SPECIALIST in the Treatment of Diseases of the
Reproductive Organs and Nervous Complaints.
De. PERRY was induced to publicly advertise himself as a
Specialist in this branch of the profession in consequence of the number
of persons suffering from diseases of this nature remaining uncured ; and
this is not surprising, when it is remembered, in consequence of the
general dislike of the profession to undertake these cases, the public
health has suffered, because the majority of persons advertising to treat
these diseases, and calling themselves Doctors, Professors, etc.,
Are Neither the One nor the Other,
and exist chiefly because DULY QUALIFIED MEDICAL PRAC-
TITIONERS have not occupied the field.
Patients can, therefore, readily see the advantage of being treated
oy a practitioner who has gone through a thorough Medical, Surgical and
Anatomical Training in the best hospitals ; and the Doctor argues that,
although it may be considered contrary to antiquated medical etiquette
to so advertise, yet he is promoting the usefulness and thk dignity of
the profession more by searching out and relieving this class of disease,
than by leaving them severely alone to the care of men who, however good
their intentions, have neither the opportunities or advantages of a regular
medical training to become acquainted with the best methods of treating
these complex forms of disease.
Tgy
~ *
eBI
l'MijariHH
’_jj.' l
Km •
Dr. IPDIESD’D'
Will be happy to advise persons suffering from these
diseases, and as, in many cases,
Nothing but the observance of a few simple directions
as to Self-Management
is required to place the patient in a healthy state, ail who
are in any way affected should consult him, and thus have
the benefit of his advice and experience.
(I)
Diabetes successfully treated fey a totally new
method of Cutaneous Medication*
Tumours also specially treated by successful method.
ALL CASES GUARANTEED .
Varicocele Quickly and Successfully Treated witliont Operation.
HOTJBS :
From 10 a.m. to 4 p.m each week day, and from 7 to 9 p.m on Tuesday and Saturday evenings.
All Consultations, either by Letter or Personally, ABSOLUTELY FREE.
Dr. perry treats his patients personally, and invites public investigation into his credentials.
Note address: ElmlCV HOUSC, 151 Elizabeth Street, SYDNEY.
MENTION THIS PAPER.


Medical.
NERVOUS MEN.
II u
/i
' ''»!
EUREKA J
■ >• ..
BELT^
ELECTRIC
s\<
Ni\
. jrjjVER failing cure for all.
DISEASES of the nervous system.
alete -with Suspensory Appliances from £l. 0. 0 and
a This famous Electric Magnetic Belt -will cure
KFRVOtJS DEBILITY, Seminal Debility, Impotence,
ndall weakness caused by indiscretion. Pains in the
u«ck Lumbago, Giddiness, Rheumatism, Kidney and
Madder complaints, and in fact any disease of the Nervous
fivstem The currents are steady and constantly felt by
Hr nearer. It has great improvements over all other
Kelts we are willing to furnish those belts on 30 daya
irL’i and accept payment after they have proved them-
mild soothing current of electricity throug!
Jmed’parts, restoring them to health and vigorous strength,
even the worst case permanently cured in three months.
It is more convenient to wear than any other Belt.
A Book illustrated, containing full information and testi-
monials from prominent people throughout Australia,
and informing persons how they may obtain these belts
without paying for them until they have proved them com-
petent to cure any disease of the Nervous System, will be
forwarded to any address on receipt of a 2d stamp for
S°dtoss':- VOLTAIC BELT COMPANY
A Box 916, G, P. 0., Sydney.
Dr. James D. Llewellyn,
(registered)
SPECIALIST ia
GrEKITO-URINAEY DISEASES,
May be CONSULTED at
-3 25 LONSDALE STREET-
(between Swanston & Elizabeth Sts.),
JVrEL.KOXJR.3VE:-
MT Consulting Hours—lo to 2; 7to 9. Sunday
Mornings, 10 to 11.
All Personal Consultations are free; by letter the
Fee is £l, which is inclusive of medicines.
* 1801 ®
f)
Barry’s
Tricopherons
for the
HAIR a SKIN
An elegant dressing ex-
quisitely perfumed, re-
moves all impurities from
m scalp, prevents bald-
ness and gray hair, and causes the hair to grow
Thick. Soft and Beautiful. Infallible for curing
eruptions, diseases of the skin, glands and muscles,
and quickly healing cuts, burns, bruises, sprains, &o.
Caution.— None genuine without the trade-mark of
Bahclat & Co., New York, affixed to each bottle.
iUU!
BarryS
Pearl
creak
forthi
Complexion
Imparts to the darkest skin a clear, natural white,
tinged with the faintest rose-blush. Speedily removes
Wrinkles, Freckles, Sunburn and Tan, and mantles
the faded cheek with youthful bloom and beauty.
CAIJTIOIf.—None genuine without the trade mark
Of Barclay & Co., New York, affixed to each bottle
£3?" A BLESSING IN EVERY FAMILY.
HOLLOWAY'S PILLS AND OINTMENT.
There is not a country in the civilised world where
the healing virtues of thes ® grand medicines have not been
recognised by thousands of sufferers. In all the ordinary
whnents of humanity their beneficent action is at once
recognised. Fullest directions are supplied for their use
m every disease. IF YOU SUFFER, TRY THEM. Manu-
notured only at 78 New Oxford-st., London. Pur-
chasers should look to the Label on the Boxes and Pota.
U the address is not 523 Oxford-street, London, they are
fDunnii-j
Q
U
0
N
G
LOONG SHAN TEA HOUSE
NOW OPEN.
Quong Tart & Co.’s
EXTENSIVE NEW PREMISES
(Nearly opposite Theatre Royal).
FIRST-CLASS GRILLS,
As well as all kinds of Refreshments, may
be obtained from 7.30 a.m. to 11.30 p.m.
OUP OF DELICIOUS TEA.
ICED DRINKS OF ALL KINDS, &o.
The rooms are splendidly furnished and
Wted up. In addition to the large and
well - appointed Refreshment Rooms,
gentlemen will find on the Second Floor
Commodious and Comfortable Smoking
J®d Conversation Rooms, furnished with
Chess, Draughts, &c., &o.
' TO THE LADIES.
On the First Floor will be found Nice
«iya,te Room for Ladies, convenient for
Writing, Reading, &c., also Retiring
“ooms and Lavatory, with both 'not and
Wld water laid on. Inspection Invited.
Finest Teas imported—Packets £lb. and
upwards supplied. Orders promptly at-
tended to.
137 king STREET, SYDNEY.
8
N
G
T
A
R
T
I
P
A
N
y
Medical.
A WONDERFUL MEDICINE.
0
Beecham’s Pills
Are universally admitted
to be worth a Guinea
a Box for bilious
and nervous disorders,
such as wind and pain in
the stomach, sick head-
ache, giddiness, fulness
and swelling after meals,
dizziness, and drowsiness,
cold chills, flushings of
heat, loss of appetite,
shortness of breath, cos-
tiveness, scurvy, blotches
on the skin, disturbed
sleep, frightful dreams,
and all nervous and trem-
bling sensations, &o. The
first dose will give relief
in twenty minutes. Every
sufferer is earnestly invited to try one box of these
•rius, and they will be acknowledged to be
M orth a Ghiinea a Box.
For females of all ages these Pills are invaluable,
as a few doses of them carry off all humors, and
bring about all that is required. No female should
be without them. There is no medicine to be found
equal to BEECHAM’S PILLS for removing anj
obstruction or irregularity of the system. If taken ac-
cording to the directions given with each box they will
soon restore females of all ages to sound and robust
health. This has been proved by thousands who have
tried them, and found the benefits which are ensured by
their use
For a weak stomach, impaired digestion and all disorders
of the liver, they act like “MAGIC,” and a few doses will
be found to work wonders upon the most important
organs in the human machine. They strengthen the
whole muscular system, restore the long-lost complexion,
bring back the keen edge of appetite, and arouse into ac-
tion with the ROSEBUD of health the whole physical
energy of the human frame. These are “FACTS” testified
continually by members of all classes of society ; and
one of the best guarantees to the nervous and debilitated
is, Beechara’s Pills have the largest sale of any patent
medicine in the world.
Beecham’s Magic Cough Pills.
As a remedy for Coughs in general, Asthma, Bronchial
Affections, Hoarseness, Shortness of Breath, Tightness
and Oppression of the Chest, Wheezing, &c., these Pills
stand unrivalled. They are the best ever offered to the
public and will speedily remove that sense of oppression
and difficulty of breathing which nightly deprive the
patient of rest. Let any person give Bebcbam’s Couon
Pills a trial and the most violent Cough will in a
short time be removed.
Prepared only and sold wholesale and retail by the pro-
prietor, Thomas Beecham, Chemist, St. Helens, Lancashire,
England, in boxes at Is. IJd. and 2s. 9d. each.—Sold by
all Druggists and Patent Medicine Dealers everywhere.
N.B.—Full directions are given with each box.
<v
&
PATENT
PILLS.
<?
w
CONSULT PROFESSOR SELBY,
376 Cleveland Street, Surry Hills, Sydney,
Personally or by letter on Chronic Complaints
of the Nervous System, Diseases of the Urinary
Organs and all Impurities of the Blood. A Positive
Cure in all cases amendable to treatment. Suf-
ferers should read the Professor’s valuable treatise,
sent post free to all who send their address. It
contains Advice on Maekiage, worth its weight
in gold.
"Throw Physic
to th«
cro.
oo
TRY NATURE’S OWN REMEDY,
ELECTRICITY.
MINIATURE
PROFESSOR
■ ALLEN’S
4
Galvanic Battery
Is acknowledged by Eminent Physicians, and by.
thousands of sufferers to be a positive Remedy for
nearly all the ailments mankind is heir to. The effi-
cacy of this Wonderful Invention as a curative agent
is certainly The Crowning Medical and Scien-
tific Triumph of the 19th Century.'
This BATTERY is not larger than a half-crown
piece, and is worn on the chest, next the skin, suspen-
ded by a silk cord around the neck. The several
metals of which it is composed are so arranged that the
natural humidity of the skin is sufficient to setthe chem-
icals in the amalgamated metals in motion, generating
a constant but gentle flow of Electricity which passes
from the Battery into the system, purifying the Blood,
strengthening the Nerves,jßrain and Muscles, infusing
fresh vigor into the Debilitated Constitution, Stimu-
lating the Vital Organs to their proper action and en-
ablingmature to throw off numerous diseases.
The Battery will cure the following ailments :
Headache, Rheumatism, Sciatica, Neuralgia, Ulcers,
and Tumors, Nervous Debility, Impotence, Liver Com-
plaints, Fever and Ague, Disease of the Kidneys and
Urinal Organs, Bronohitus, Asthma, Diphtheria, Fits,
Constipation, Piles, Heart Disease, Paralysis, Disease
of the Lungs and Throat, Skin Disorders, and almmst
every form of Aches and Pains.
The Battery has a soothing effect upon children
while teething. Illustrated Circular sent free, giving
full particulars and directions for use,
Price FIVE SHILLINGS
By Post to any address, or supplied by all Chemists
and Storekeepers. H. DAVY & Co , Agents, 264
Elizabeth St„ Melbourne.
DRUNKENNESS
can be
. cured
. by admin-
istering Dp. Hayes’ Golden Specific. It
can be given without the knowledge of the
patient if desired, by placing it in coffee, tea or articles
of food. Cures guaranteed. Beware of imitations.
Send stamp for book.
Address—E. N. Harper,
23 Elizabeth St. Sydney
IS A DISEASE
Musical.
INGHAM’S
PATENT SCALE INSTRUCTOR
—FOR THE—
PIAITOPOETE.
PUPILS can obtain the above at once, and the best
way to illustrate its usefulness to them is to sup-
pose a man to live to be a hundred years Old and never
to have seen a Piano, he would, with five minutes
instruction, be able to play the most difficult Major and
Minor Scales on the instrument.
JJISTORY OF BOTANY BAY.
PRICE : ONE SHILLING.
Business Announcements,
He bank of new Zealand.
64 PITT STREET, and 588 GEORGE STREET.
Paid-up Capital £1,125,000
The Bank has Agents in all the principal cities
throughout the United States of America and
Canada, and can offer special facilities for dealing
in Bullion, Bills of Exchange, Commercial and
Travellers’ Letters of Credit.
Drafts issued and Bills collected on most favour-
able terms, at rates which can be ascertained on
application.
ATOOMBA FAMILY HOTEL.’
First-class Accommodation for Tourists and Families
Wires and Letters to be addressed “ Proprietor.”
Arrangements can be made to provide transit for persons
wishing to view the celebrated Jeuolau €avcs and
other places of interest.
Sydney Branches:
N. F. GIBLIN, Manager.
JOSEPH NIMMO
ƒ
f
f
%
%
a
<n
1C
*
50.
<2
%
\p
EVERY
ESCRIPTION
HAIR WORK DONE
<v
>
<r>
PRIVATE’
ROOMS
FOR L A D I E':
/22*24\
/ROYAL A RCA dK
MELBOURNE
J. SITTERLIN,
FROM PARIS,
Ladies’ Hairdresser. Wigmaker. & Perfumer,
25 SYDNEY ARCADE, SYDNEY,
HISTORICAL AND FANCY HAIRDRESSING A
SPECIALTY.
Manufacturer of All Kinds of Theatrical
and Street Wigs.
Ammonlated Quinine,
The most efficient Hair Lotion, to prevent prema-
ture baldness, ,
Sitterlin’s Vegetable Hair-dye,
The only Hair-dye in the colonies to restore Light
Hair to its natural colour. All shades.
Success G-uaranteed.
MANUFACTURING HATTERS,
GEORGE STREET
SYDNEY
IMPORTERS OF ALLTHE
NEWESTSHAPES.
And at ALBERT STREET, BRISBANE.
4
(0
THE BEST
IN THE WORLD
m
m
fiUCH’s
INC
PO
manufactured 6y •
JAMES CxANNOb SarbovrS 1 '
jSold. Vu Eapc&XjA ? S^creA«gfirro
ƒ
Business Announcements.
■JIHE THREE GREAT LIGHTS!
The Needles Patent Gas-making Machine;
The Harvey Patent Safety Kerosene Lamp;
And the New Era Portable Gas Lamp.
The Harvey Lamp has been adopted by the
Railway Commissioners for lighting the Sydney
trams. We were awarded the Highest Order of
Merit and Special Mention by experts at the
late. Melbourne Exhibition for our lighting
mediums. Over GOOD Harvey Lamps are in use
in this colony, and for all lighting purposes are
giving universal satisfaction. These Lamps can
be seen on one of the North Shore ferry-boats,
and are suitable for alb classes of vessels. The
Inventor offers £2OO to anyone producing as good
a Kerosene Burner.
Patentees for Australasia:
H. T. Smith Sc Co., 494 Kent St. South, Sydney;
14 Arcade, Adelaide, S.A.; Argent Street, Broken Hill ;
Parkside Iron Works, Melbourne.
WA. LEWIS, old-established Private Detective,
■ for the discovery of Missing Friends, tracing
Absconders, watching Suspected Persons, and prosecuting
all kinds of Private and Confidential Enquiries; obtaining
Evidence in Divorce, •'Libel, Fraud, Bigamy, Breach of
Promise ; extracts from or Copies of Wills, or Certificates-
of Births, Marriages or Deaths obtained in any part of the
world. Bankrupt Schedules Filed, £l, by a legal gentle-
man duly admitted and practising in all the courts of
N.S.W., who may be consulted at my office on all legal
work. Consultation Free. Bents and Debts Collected,
Distress Warrants issued, steady and trustworthy Bailiffs
employed, and all moneys received are promptly accounted
for. W. A. LEWIS cautions the public against so-called
old-established private detective agencies, as he is con-
nected with no agents in Sydney. An intelligent, well-
trained staff of Male and Female Assistants retained,
capable, when necessary, of assuming any character in
life—from a newspaper boy to a clergyman, or from a
servant girl to a lady. Terms Moderate. Consultation
Free. Address—
Phcenix Chambers, 158 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
[Telephone 723.
WILLIAM CAEGILL,
Photographic Stock Importer,
26 IMAA-lEbIKIIET STREET,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
SPECIAL NOTICE.—The Sydney Bulletin.
Tasmanian Edition Publishers, EITZ-
GERALD BROS. Subscription (payable strictly
in advance), Six Shillings and Sixpence per quar>
ter, or One Pound per annum.
The Bulletin will be on Sale every Friday at
the Office, George Street, Launceston, or from the
Runners in the street.
Dr. westcott’S amenorrhoea
PILLS for Ladies, when taken for a few
days before, quickly correct all irregularities
from whatever cause arising ; 2s. 9d. and 4s. 6d.,
by post 3s. and ss. W. H. SOUL and CO., 190
Pitt-street, Sydney, Agents.
EPPS’S
GRATEFUL—COMFORTING
COCO A.
Read I Read ! Read I
“THE BULLETIN’S”
History of Botany Bay,
By Arthur Gayll.
Profusely Illustrated, by The Bulletin’s wall
known Artists,
L. HOPKINS and PHIL MAY.
Price - One SKilUng
Per post, Is, 3d.
Hotels.
THE GEOEGE HOTEL
(opposite Eaiheay Station, near Baths),
St. Hilda, Victoria
First-class Family & Commercial Hotel.
£2T For particulars, apply to
F. WIMPOLB,
PROPRIETOR.
PFAHLEET’S HOTEL,
SYDNEY, N S.W.,
Opposite the Park, V/ynyard Square,
(Under New Management.)
rpHIS for 26 years well-known First-class Central Hotel,
recently thoroughly renovated throughout, has every
comfort and attention of a home. The Cuisine Department
is under competent French supervision. Dining Room
open for Non-Residents. Open-air Recreation Garden.
A well-ventilated Billiard Room adjoining Recreation
Ground (three Alcock’s best Tables), under the manage-
ment of A. Buckingham, late of Empire Hotel. Wines
md Spirits of the very best quality only, and the Finest
wid Coolest Bar hi Town
HOT AND COLD BATHS.
E3T* Nlf,llT PORTER. French 1
German }-
Telephone No. 150. Italian I
Spoken.
SPECIAL SUITES FOR FAMILIES.
CHAS. HECHT ... Manager.


SHEVILL & CO.,
Corner Queen Street and Flinders Lane,
MELBOURNE.
mercantile auctioneers.
House, Land, and Estate Agents,
, ,17-
i
lv"
m
4
11 ssr ■
•r. :•'
f.a v
111
4
-1J
Advances made against shipments of Merchandif e
and Colonial Produce.
Daily Sales held at their Commodious
Neio Dooms.
OUTDOOR
Furniture & Land Sales Conducted.
Branch
Offices
( 32 dispel SL f Prahrasi. j
I 2 Albert St„. VYn- or. )
Branch
Offices
CLARENDON HOTEL, MANLY,
The Brighton of New South Wales.
AT the CLARKNDCXN HOTEL, Banquets, Suppers, Private Dinners, Evening Parties, etc., are
served on the Shortest Notice in the Large Dining Hall. Besides having a most recherche
Dinner, you can enjoy from the balconies the magnificent view of the sea and surrounding country;
here also you can have good company, good wines—in fact, everything that can possibly make one
comfortable can be found at this really first-class hotel. Fishing and Picnic Parties provided. Table
de Hole at One o’clock daily and Sundays. No expense is spared by Mrs. Kilminstek to make her
visitors comfortable and her Hotel the beat in the colony.
3VoLz*s. ICHjIVUNTSTER, Clarendon Hotel,
Opposite OCEAN BEACH, MANLY.
BOLLINGER’S CHAMPAGNE.
DEY—EXTBA QTCJ.A.X.IT'S’..
SOLE AGENTS fok NEW SOUTH WALES—
CHARLES BATH & CO.,
4 Bridge Street, SYDNEY.
f
sraxm
iv--:
WTEW
FURNITURE
WAREHOUSES,
York Street, Wynyard Square; Sydney,
Now supply the General Public as well as the Trade.
- ~ i
10,000 Bedsteads,
From. lOs. 6cl. -fces £35.
H. Si. Leach,
SUCCESSOR TO
B. MODINI, Gunmaker, informs his Customers
vT • and the Public in general that he has the largest
assortment of Firearms in the colony. Qualities arift prices
to defy competition. Guns by the following celebrated
gunmaikers: —J. Puki-ey & Sons, Cii. Boswell, John Rigby
and Co., Joseph Lang & Sons, Cii. Osboknk & Co., Thomas
Bland & Son, W. Powell & Sons. A large assortment of
various other makers always on hand, viz., W. W. Greener,
Soott, Wkbley, Hollis & Sons, Riley and Cashmore. All
goods will h" faithfully guaranteed at 602 George-
street, Sydney. Price list on application.
Thomas Hoss,
TOBACCO & CIGAR IMPORTER,
27 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY,
'(Corner of Pitt Street.)
A large stock of Genuine Ha van it alt Cigars, of the
choicest Brands to select from.
Sole Importer of the Celebrated “ FI or de Bonita ”
Brand of Cigars and •* Umpire Cigarettes.”
s*alls ridge Family J|[otel.
Falls Bridge, Melbourne.
■%
This magnificent Hotel, containing 50 Double
and Single Rooms, is splendidly furnished and
perfectly ventilated.
Hot and Cold Plunge and Shower Baths.
Electric Bells. Telephone 1217 Billiards, &e.
Terms Strictly Moderate.
J. BORTIBVICK “ Manager
Late of the South Australian Club Hotel, Adelaide.
Free
Are to be' found in the “ Bight and T/ife,’
for the Speedy Cure of Nervous Debility and
Kindred .piseases, &c.. A copy of . this book will
be' sent Free, sealed, for Six Penny Stamps.
Address —
S. WARD k no.. SYDPTSY PHARMACY,
7fi HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
v?*: ’
ƒ
Huntington Hill
Knowles’ rumps.
p
MINING & HYDRAULIC ENGINEERS
AND
GENERAL MACHINERY MERCHANTS,
&c., &c., &c.
187 & 189 Clarence Street,
SYDNEY,
*
And SAN FRANCISCO, CALIFORNIA.
ICock Breakers
W(slin«h«iisv Kugfllt’H.
ENGINES,
2 to 50 H.r.
BOILERS,
1 to 35 H.p.
STEAM PUMPS
For all purposes.
cnnisAL pumps,
2" to 40" discharge.
HAND PUMPS.
Saw Benches.
Latlies.
SKILLING MACHINES,
&C., &C.
Hay St., Haymarket, Sydney,
■3
V.
We invite al those requiring Machinery of any kind for any purpose, large o. small, to write for particulars and prices. From the extent of our stock we are generally able to give immediate Hdlvprv
\ isitors, whether buyers or n jt, are always welcome to inspect the magnificent display in our new and extensive Showrooms,
129, 131, 133 & 135 HAY STREET, HATMARKET, SYDKTEY.
mm mm.
Hauling Engines.
Battery Engines.
Saw-mill Engines,
FLOUR-MILL EMM
engines
FOR
Electric Lighting.
Vertical Boilers.
Miiltiliihlar Boilers,
CORNISH UOUIKS.
&0., &c.
