

AITKBN’S alb.
LIFE BUOY BRAND.
TftfS SEfeT I«f THE mAZtJX ET.
DICKENS’” WHISKY.
USED BY THE LATE CHARLES DICKENS,
ANIS SUPPLIES* TO THE PRINCIPAL CLUBS IX SYDXET.
«&5 ■"fc't/i/' a o<3L * 251 G-eorge"St=, Sydney.
Sole Uew Wales.
ţ
sS'fcx©3*t 9 -.
UNRIVALLED ACCOMMODATION.
ZDicl^sorL’s
«-pi-i-i i ii Pass.” “ XiOoK-Ont.”
DISTANCE FROM SYDNEY, 42 MILES.
“ Wialiin-g ’Woll.”
HORSES AND VEHICLES ON HIRE.
44 Xa0c3.c3.03a. '^7%T
EVERY ACCOMMODATION.
WM. DICKSON
ť
ŧ
t
BALDWIN DEY AIK RBPRISBEATOE.
gct-rtre of the many so-called Dry Air Refrigerators advertised by unscrupulous Manufacturer* and Dealers mtendmg
to deceive the public and trade upon our reputation. This is the original and celebrated Dry A.r_ Refrigerator, made
famous by its successful competition at the leading Exhibitions in the Umted States for the past Six Years, known as
the Baldwin Dry Air Refrigerator.
WHITE MOUNTAIN FREEZERS, ICE MILK CANS, MIXERS,
SQTJBBZiiS.-S#
Bros. Sz Eigg 1 , Btd..,
513 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
c
J.
&
-
Howard's CoIonl*t ‘J-Furrow IMggl»8
1’lousli.- (B./.O.L)
I
Howard's Single-Furrow Digging
Plows!*.—(O.L.)
ţ
(h
a
'l-
IN
mMmL~ ■
i
—THE—
LONDON & SYDNEY
TEA,
COMPANY.
409—KENT STREET-400
(Two doors from Market Street),
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
—-IMPORt—
SI G Sl-O L S S I 35T 3D I .A. InT & OHIUA
Tacked in 201b. and 401b. Packages, and delivered at Is. 6d., Is. Dd. and 2s per lb,
(Carriage Free) to any Railway Station or Port in New South Wales.
A Single package at Wholesale Price. Correspondence invited and promptly attend d to,
The Bulletin
Yol. 11—No, 529. j
[Saturday, April 5, 1890.


TOBACCO
i
jfl
ies
DIXSOPSONS
Customs Returns.
American Leaf,
Bixson and Sons consumed in 1888, 52,592lbs.
in ore, and in 1889 (over 44 tons) 98,939 lbs. more
American Leaf than all the rest of New South
Wales put together.
DIXSON’S TOBACCOS having the largest
tale of any in Australia are —
❖
o
☆i
X
o
<v
SIR ROGER
w wi ir*m i III nm will ■ «W| ■
Dr.RIDOE’S
FOOD
FOE INFANTS AND INVALIDS
Has an enormous sale in Kngland
ami Is now being introduced into tbe
Colonies.
Hvory Storekeeper should got a supply
as every AVlse mother will certainly
use it.
DR. RIDGE'S ROYAL FOOD MILLS,
LONDON, ENGLAND.
IB HBa*
I 9 ''"'’
TRUNKSIW-BC
/? Jt7?rv0*t C*
BROWN’S
SATIN
POLISH
LADIES' AND CHILDREN'S
BOOTS AND SHOES.
Award ad hiijk'cst honor's at
Phila.,
licrlin,
Paris,
1878
Melbourne, 1880
Frankfort, 1881
Amsterd’m 1883
New Orleans, 1884-85, and wherever
exhibited.
Paris medal on ev'ery bottle.
Beware of Imitations.
This Blacking is in liquid form and is applied to shoes
or other articles of leather by means of a sponge, attached
to the cork by a wire, so that the blacking can be used by
anyone without soiling the fingers. No polishing brush
is required. It dries immediately after being applied, and
will not soil the most delicate clothing.
Sold largely in Australia through Commission Merchants
and Dealers.
B. F. BROWN & CO.,
Boston, UiS.A., M’f’gS.
THE BALLARAT COFFEE PALACE,
Lydiard Street, Ballarat.
YISITORS to tire Golden City will find every
convenience at the above Establishment;
The Only Coffee Palace in Ballarat.
MODERATE CHARGES;
RBID & SONS Proprietors;
ATKINSON’S
ENSLISH PERFUMERY
surpasses all others for its natural
fragrance;
A. T K X 3ST S O 3ST ’
QUININE HAIR LOTION,
Unsurpassed for promoting the grewlh
and improving the appearance of the
hair, guaranteed perfeetly harmless.
ATKINSON’S
FLORIDA WATER,
An exceptionally fine Perfume for
the Handkerchief, distilled from the
choicest exotics.
Of all Dealers and of the Manufacturers—
J. & E. ATKINSON,
24, OLD BOND STREET, LONDON.
Trade Mark—“WhMe Hose” on “Golden
Lyre," with Address in full.
T: LAWLESS, June.,
37 MARKET STREET,
SYDNEY,
Insure Your Health Against All Risks
—by tAkinA—
Kruse's Fluid »
It Cdols the Bided, Proniotei, a Healthy Flow Of the Secretions
and Fortifibs the System against the Shafts Of Disease.
The Best Aperient For Children; Numerous Soli Medals.
SUPERIOR to 0,11 OTHERS!
(Vide Mpdicdl Testindottials,’ Aiialysia, &c., Accompanying each Bottle.)
— xx —
— TAKE ONLY KRUSE’S- —
Sold in Bottles at D. 3dt, 2s. Get, 3s. 6d. Each.
Wholesale Agents: Messrs. ELLIOTT Bros., Ltd
CLARENDON HOTEL, MANLY,
The Brighton of New South Wales.
AT the CLARENDON HOTEL, Banquets, Suppers, Private Dinners, Evening Parties, etc., are
served on the Shortest Notice in the Large Dining Hall. Besides having a most recherche
Dinner, you can enjoy from the balconies the magnificent view of the sea and surrounding country;
here also you can have good company, good wines—in fact, everything that can possibly make one
comfortable caii be found at this really first-class hotel. Pishing and Picnic Parties provided. Table
de Hole at One o’clock daily and Sundays. No expense is spared by Mrs. Kilminster to make her
\ i si tors comfortable and her Hotel the best in the colony.
Mrs. KILMmSTER, Clarendon Hotel,
Opposite OCEAN BEACH, MANLY
RICHMOND FAMILY HOTEL*
PORTLAND, VICTORIA,
John Shelton • Proprietor.
68 Hunter Street, and 8 Bligh Street;
SYDNEY;
IF. SHEOEDEE
LIVERY, BAIT, LET-OUT AND COMMIS-
SION STABLES.
Horses and Vehicles of every description for
Sale or Hire; also, good reliable Ladies or Gentle-
men’s Hacks.
WILLIAM === CARGILL,
Photographic Stock Importer,
2 6 MARKET STREET, SYDNEY.
C MAI? B- 1Y ®R©S» JUW
W:
%
U§
\i/
>.
< >:
0
.v
*
i-j r
r^^iaOf^i
FFICES
Mil dura
Melbourne
ReNM ARK
ADELA 1 DE
England^.
V' .V'Ujktll Ji„ "JS?
icroniA.
Chafe/ Irrigation Offices, Swanstcn Street.
Sdurfl Australia..
Cavendish Chambers, Grenfell Street
_ J. E Mathew Vincent, (Chief Commissioner}
Cornwall Buildings, 35 Queen Victoria St.
l_ O N D O N E C-
TroaJal y C?
PRINCE OF WALES’ HOTEL,
St. Kilda, Victoria.
Within Five Minutes from STATION; and One Minute from ESPLANADE and BATHS.
MRS. KONG. MLXG ... ... ... Proprietress*
ť
SAUCE.
Purchasers should see that the Label on every bottle of the original
WORCESTERSHIRE SAUCE
bears the Signature, thus
Ask for IjKAI & Perrins’ Sauce, and see ISfamC? oA W'ra'p'p eT > Label, Bottle and Stopper.
Wholesale'and for Export Sy the Proprietors, Worcester ; Crosse <$■ Blackwell, London, $e. } ..
and iy Grocers and Oilmen throityheut the World.
—Everyone should! Read—-
Tlie BTTLIjBTIN’S
“HISTORY of BOTANY BAY,"
By ARTHUR GAYLL.
Profusely Illustrated by ■“ The Bulletin’s” well-known Artists, L. Hopkins and Phil May.
Price - ONE SHILLING; per Post, Is. 3d.
May be had from Agents, or direct from “The Bulletin” Office.
Agents a— Victorian : A. Benjamin,. 321 Little Collins Street Last, Melbourne ; Tasmanian: Fitzgerald Brothers, George Street,
Launceston ; Queensland : J. H. Thompson, George Street, Brisbane.


Beale & Oo.’s New Warehouse.
mm
:
OUR NEW SHOW-ROOMS AND WAREHOUSES!
482 it 484 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Something New in Sewing Machines !
THE BEALE PATENT MACHINE.
What is there Special about it?
The restless march of invention has enabled us
to bring before the public improvements of im-
mense value, to some short account of which we
beg your attention for a few moments. Our call-
ing is to relieve the home-mother of all that may
weary her in sewing, and to make the same
throughout a pleasure. That we have during the
last ten years succeeded in so doing, scores of
thousands will testify. And to-day we are supply-
ing a machine whose range of work is absolutely
complete, transcending the hopes and dreams of
years. The construction and form are such as to
place it altogether above and beyond competition,
and for the truth of which assertions, as of the
following, we humbly request that your own eyes
may be the judges.
* THE IMPROVED HIGH ARM. A great
desideratum with ladies has been the raising of the
arm of the machine, so as to allow the goods to be
sewn to pass freely underneath. This had to be
accomplished without increasing the weight of the
machine. In fact, the Beale runs with wonderful
ease and rapidity. It is almost silent, all clicking
sounds having been obviated. As is well-known,
a good test of the finish of any mechanism is its
silence when in rapid motion.
ALAR GER RANGE OF APPLIANCES is
provided than with any other machine. Samples
of work performed upon these we are prepared at
all times to submit, whilst an elaborate Instruction
Book is supplied, which is alone sufficient to
explain their uses and their applicability to every
requirement
NICKEL-PLATING. —In our climate the
exposed parts of the machine, and the appliances,
need to be protected from rust. We have, at
considerable expense, added a handsomely nickeled
wheel, nickeled plates, screws, appliances, treadle-
bar and cones, heightening the appearance. These
improvements also tend largely to preserve the
parts. This olatinu is imperishable
A MUCH LARGER DRAWER has taken the
place of the cramped and clumsy contrivance of
former years. When closed it securely fastens the
cover, and is provided with a lock and key.
THE WOODWORK is handsomer than ever,
being always of selected and inlaid Walnut. All
of it has been exposed for weeks in the drying-
room of the Factory to a temperature reaching as
high as 170 degrees ; thus when kept out of damp
and sunshine, it will endure our most trying
climates.
A SELF-THREADING SHUTTLE of solid
steel, saving the trouble of threading by the end
of the cotton. It has an excellent tension, is
strong and simple.
THE BOBIN WINDER is a marvel of in-
genuity, winding and guiding the cotton by itself,
as evenly as upon the real whence it came, and
stopping of its own accord when the bobin is full.
The baby's tiny clothing, upon which mothers love to
display their choicest handiwork; the boy's tweed suit,
the drawing-room carpet, may all be stitched by the won-
derful BEALE Machine. Examples of all kinds of sewing
required in dresses, millinery, underclothing, tailoring and
upholstery will be shown and explained at our offices free
of charge.
With the wonderful BEALE Machine, whether for hand
or foot use, you can hem any width, make double seams
O” fells, braid, stitch with chenille, Berlin wool or gold
cord, and such like for fancy work; you may make a
pretty lace stitch, tuck ever so finely, bind dresses, coats,
or carpets; sew on trimmings without guiding, make
frilling, ruffling, or ruching quilt, weave your own braid
with any combination of colours, and stitch it on at the
same time ; make thick -woollen door mats, embroidered
antimacassars, window curtains, and so forth ; you can
easily and rapidly perform the fashionable shirring or
gathering so popular for sleeves, bodies, or skirts of dresses
with an appliance supplied gratis ; lay the small cords in
hoods and stays; do large cording; gather with or without
a band, and generally do all kinds of straight sewing upon
any material whatever. You can darn upon any woven
goods, and do crewel work. You may make button and
eyelet holes, do overcasting, make herring-bone stitch
Upon any materials. This work is absolutely unique, and
can only be accomplished upon the BEALE Patent
Machine.
Any of these performances will be show at our shops
at any time. The BEALE Patent makes a lock-stitch
which cannot ravel, yet by a momentary alteration the
sewing can be done so as to rip from end to end if desired.
This peculiarity is sometimes useful when children’s clothes
are intended to be altered
We have a special word for husbands: When the day’s
business is over, and the evening meal is finished, the
wife—and perhaps the sister or daughter—sits down to her
sewing. With her hands alone she cannot, as aforesaid,
do anything like the whole of the work required. In a
corner of the room is perhaps an old-fashioned machine,
with which she may, by hard driving, occasionally stitch,
with a noise like a sausage-machine, a simple straight
seam ; but that is no great help. She ought to be able to
do ALL the work with it, short of stitching on buttons,
which is a trifle. And we have known some instances
where the lady of the house is anxious to obtain a first-
class machine, that which will be the greatest of all helps
to her, but the husband demurs on the score of expense.
Why, it is the only article of the household furnishing
which will ever return you any part of the cost! If the
lady will use it, it MUST earn far more than the half-a-
crown a week necessary to purchase it. On one little
garment she will save that sum, so that in addition to in-
creased comfort your household expenses will not be en-
larged, but ought to be diminished, by the possession of a
BEALE PATENT MACHINE. How‘ often do we waste
money upon really useless knick-knacks, or upon need-
lessly expensive articles and indulgences? The Machine
should far more than pay for itself during the time you
are clearing it off, and it will then become your own, earn-
ing or saving money as before. Is it not fairly to be
called a PROFITABLE INVESTMENT?
Jash or Easy Terms. Price Lists and Samples
Free by Post.
Beale & Company,
482 & 484 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
Or from our Branches and Travellers everywhere.
Business Announcements.
WILLIAM FLEMING,
MERCHANT and IMPORTER,
22 & 24 Clarence Street
(Corner Margaret St.),
SYDNEY.
2, St. James’ Buildings
(WILLIAM STREET),
MELBOURNE.
Fleming’s
RELIABLE
Buggies
ŧ
Hig'li-Glass Bug*g*ies, Phaetons,
Wag'g'ous and Harness.
'HP
mm
WA
m
Wa
Farm Waggons,
Express Waggons.
o
CARTS
For One and Two Passengers
I CfOTT'SH
THE
O'
C 1
_ 1
>■
11011)11
n
:s i.
•muiiing
illinium
iminiil'*
3
as " B ir uiii iii
\NH\Sm.
c
r
- c
.'V-
s£v
68
CLARENCE S*
SYDNEY.
AGENTS
in New South Wales.
TRIUMPH
OfThE OVER Bad.
WHY
TOU SHOULD USE
LARMER’S
CELEBRATED
HEALTH-GIVING
AND
INVIGORATING TONIC.
It is used and endorsed by all Physicians
; ecause it is the best.
It is superior to all other Tonics.
For the Liver, Kidneys and Blood it has
no equal.
It is wonderful as a Flesh Producer.
It is the best remedy for Wasting Diseases,
Sick Headaches, Bilious Complaints, Fever,
and Ague, N euralgia, &c.
Price, 2s 6d and ss; By post, Is extra.
PREPARED ONLY BY
CAINS & CO., Chemists,
78 KING STREET.
For male hv nil (hrmliU
M. W. AOo.
CARLSBAD
NATURAL MINERAL WATERS
are now imported In bottles and used in treat-
ment of CHRONIC GASTRIC CATARRH, HYPER-
CEMIA of the LIVER, GALL STONES, CHRONIC
CONSTIPATION, DIABETES, RENAL CALCULI,
GOUT, and diseases of the spleen arising from
residence in the tropics or malarious districts.
THE NATURAL
CARLSBAD SPRUOEL- SALT
In small and frequent doses is an efficient
DIURETIC,but as an APERIENT it should be taken
BEFORE BREAKFAST, In doses of from 1 to 2 tea-
spoonfuls, dissolved in water. To increase the
APERIENT action of the Carlsbad Mineral Water,
a teaspoonful of the Salt, previously dissolved
in water should be added.
SOLE CONSIGNEES for the U.K. and the Colonies
INGRAM & ROTLE, 52, Farringdon St., London,
And of all Chemists throughout the World.
The Natural Mineral Waters of
{STATE
t
SPRINGS.)
GRANDE-GRILLE.— For Affections of the
Liver, Biliary Organs, &c.
CELESTINS. —For the Kidneys, Gravel, Gout
Rheumatism, Diabetes, &c.
HOPITAL. —For Stomach Complaints.
HAUTERIVE. — An excellent Table Wat**,
OF ALL CMKMISTS IN AUSTRALASIA.
Business Announcements.
MASON BROTHERS
&
LIMITED.
263 to 269 KENT STREET,
SYDNEY,
Have always in Stock for Sale to th«
Trade arid Wholesale Buyers Only ,
Ironmongery, and
GENERAL HARDWARE
Glass, China and
EARTHENWARE.
WINES. BEERS & SPIRITS,
AND GENERAL
BULK MERCHANDISE.
Agents for
JOHN WALKER and SONS
Old Highland Whisky.
J. SORIN and CO.’S
Cognac.
J. T. GAYEN’S,
Schnapps and Geneva.
A. MELVIN and SONS'
Edinburgh Pale Ale.
HENRY GEORGE.
Send to
HEEKTRY KIIMG,
SCENIC AND PORTRAIT PHOTOQRAPHBB,
316 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
FOR —
Life-like Cabinet Portrait of the Apostle of
SINGLE-TAX—Henry George.
Price (post paid), 2/6.
Medical.
DR. SPEER’S
AMERICAN DISPENSARY
31 TST ork Street.
P.O. Box 920.
Dr. Speer is a regular Graduated Physician, educated at
darvard College, U.S. (for confirmation see New Zealand
Gazette, January 21st, 1886; also New South Wales
Gazette, April 17th, 1888). The doctor has devoted 14
years to the study of CHRONIC, NERVOUS, AND
SPECIAL DISEASES. Four of these were in the leading
hospitals of the United States, which enables him to treat
all complaints with excellent results. All applying to
him will receive his honest opinion of their complaints.
No experimenting ;no Mercury used. He will guarantee
a positive cure in every case he undertakes, or forfeit
£2OO. His reason for doing so is this—when there is no
organic disease, and nothing but an inorganic trouble, or,
in other words, a conglomeration of symptoms producing
a certain result, there is no reason why it cannot be re-
moved with the proper remedies, therefore he guarantees.
He wishes it distinctly understood that he does not claim
to perform impossibilities, or to have miraculous power
he claims only to be a skilled and successful physician
thoroughly informed in his speciality—CHßONlC and
SPECIAL DISEASES of MEN and WOMEN. People
residing at a distance can, by explaining their troubles in
detail be treated at home. The course of treatment will
not in any way interfere with their business. Examina-
tion and advice free to all. Charges moderate. H. J.
Speer, M D., 31 York-street, Sydney. Post Office Box,
No. 920. Office hours, 10 a.m. 012 a.m. 2to 4 and 7
to 8 p.m. Sundays from 10 to 11 a.m. only.
isr
OI CTu
TO YOUKTG M!£l]\r.
DR. FLETCHER’S
TREATISE ON NERVOUS DISEASES, THEIR CAUSE,
SYMPTOMS, TREATMENT, AND CURE.
directions contained in this little treatise will be
~ found of immense benefit to the sufferer ; and if these
directions are observed during the early stages of Nervous
or Sexual Debility, No Medicines will be required , as, by
observing the directions given, the patient can Cure Him-
self.
This admirable little treatise is specially written to
show a method of counteracting the evil effects of indis-
cretions in early life—overwork, irregularity in eating or
drinking, &c. It is the result of much study and long
and successful experience in the treatment of diseases,
and contains a fund of useful information to every suf-
ferer from the following complaints, viz.; —Nervous
Debility, Dizziness, Specks before the Eyes, Pains in the
Back, Defective Memory, Loss of Will Power, Loss of
Energy, Spermatorrhoea, Bashfulness, Discontentedness,
Constipation, Liver and Kidney Derangements, Atrophy,
Impotence, Impure Blood, Foul Taste in Mouth, Palpita-
tion of Heart, Wakefulness, Despondency, Excessive Ner-
vousness, Inability to Marry, Premature Decay, and other
symptoms experienced by nervous sufferers.
All Should Send for this Little Treatise.
If the complaint is of long standing and requires
medicine, Dr. Fletcher will GUARANTEE TO CURE
ANY CASE OF NERVOUS or SEXUAL DEBILITY
with ONE COURSE OF MEDICINES LASTING FIVE
WEEKS, and will send with medicines A WRITTEN
GUARANTEE to cure same or return the monies paid.
Dr. Fletcher’s treatment is both simple and effective,
and within the reach of the poorest. It is unlike any
other, and with it he has cured over 25,000 patients, and
invites patients to investigate his statements by verifying
the testimonials published in his treatise. The treatise
will be forwarded on receipt of two stamps to cover
postage.
CONSULTATION BY LETTER, FREE.
Address in first instance—
DR. H. EWART FLETCHER,
Box 1417, G.P.O.
Sydney, N.S.W.
Private address—Clonmel House, Waverley, Sydney.
Remember, all cases undertaken, guaranteed, and a
signed agreement given, which provides that NO COST
be incurred by the patient if a cure is not effected.
VARICOCELE RADICALLY CURED WITHOUT
OPERATION.
Mention this Paper.
83T* IN THE PRESS,
4 ‘.A. O-OUL-DIEItT SHAITTY,”
By “BULLETIN" WRITERS.


LI'VEEPOOL
hS jj -t—i sot-^.□r Jt£j.
A pleasantly-situated Property, thoroughly cleared, close to Liverpool Station. Torrens’ Title. £1 deposit; 10s. per month,
-A-. "W. STEPHEN, 28 CASTLEEEAGH STREET, SYDUEY.
“ A Golden Shanty.” KciP A Selection from the brightest of the original literary matter which has made The Bulletin world-famous. Price, Is. : posted, 3d. extra
Public Companies.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA.
THE COMING COLONY!
Everyone should Invest a Few Pounds in Land
in
PERTH,
The CAPITAL CITY OP WESTERN AUSTRALIA.
Compared with other Australian Cities the Price
is Very Low.
The Coal, Gold and Tin Mines are attracting
much enterprise and capital to the Colony.
CITY BUILDING” ALLOTMENTS,
From £1 per Foot.
BUILDING- SITES adjoining the CITY
From £lO Each.
Small Deposit. Easy Terms. Discount for Cash.
Each Lot guaranteed good Building Land.
Land in Perth will increase greatly in value during
the next few years.
INQUIRY COSTS NOTHING.
Pamphlets, Marked Plans, and full information
posted to any address on application to
The Intercolonial Investment Co., limits!
96 Bathurst Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
W. J. LOUGLAS, Manager.
The Australian Mercantile Loan and
Guarantee Co. (Limited).
Head Office ;
Corner of Market and York Streets, SYDNEY.
Melbourne —283 Collins-street East.
Brisbane—Corner Edward and Elizabeth Streets.
Newcastle —27 Hunter-street.
Directorate :
FRANK J. SMITH, Esq., M.L.A., Managing Director.
J. P. HOWE, Esq., M.L.A. G. J. FINLAYSON, Esq.
E. H. BUCHANAN, Esq. JAMES MILLER, Esq.
The Company grant immediate advances upon
Deeds of Land, Bills of Lading, Merchandise,
Storage, and Bond Certificates, and all classes of
mercantile and other approved securities, for fixed
*erms or repayable by instalments.
Interest Allowed on Deposits:
3 months ... 6 per cent.
A. MILLER ... General Manager.
the
Australian Banking Company,
LIMITED.
PITT and MARKET STREETS, SYDNEY,
Incorporated under the Companies Act, 187 U.
Authorised Capital, £500,000, in 100,000 Shares of £5 each.
Subscribed Capital, £75,000.
FRANCIS ABIGAIL, M.L.A.,
Chairman of the Board of Directors.
A Branch of the Bank has been opened at Goulburn
under the management of C. H. Atkinson, Esq. (lately
Branch Manager of the Bank of New South Wjiles) for the
transaction of General Banking Business.
The Bank has paid its Shareholders a dividend of 10 per
cent, every half-year since its formation.
The Bank transacts all usual hanking business in every
particular.
Special advantages granted to Commercial Clients.
Overdrafts granted against deposit of Deeds.
THE HIGHEST RATES OF INTEREST GIVEN FOR
FIXED DEPOSITS.
The Share Register is now open for the allotment of
Shares—New Issue.
By order of the Board of Directors.
RODERICK M'NAMARA, Manager.
Forms of application for Shares may be obtained at the
Bank.
CITY MUTUAL FIRE INSURANCE
COMPANY, Limited.
Established 1877.
Capital £500,000.
Head Office:
25 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY.
A Cash Bonos of 10 per cent, is paid to Policyholders
on renewals every year. Insurances covering Loss hi’ Fire,
Lightning or Gas Explosion at Lowest Rates.
The DIVIDEND of 8 PER CENT, to 31st December,
1889, is now being paid, and the BONUS ol 10 PER
CENT, to Policyholders will, as usual, be paid on re-
newal of their policies.
Money to Lend on Approved Security.
N.B. —The Bonus paid is equal to that paid by any
Fire Company in Sydney.
ROBERT KERR, Manager.
Sydney Canister Works,
n OLLINS STREET, SURRY HILLS,
OFF CKOWN STUEKT.
Manufacturers of allkinds of Tinsfor Confectioners.
Tea Merchants, Biscuit Makers, &c., also all kinds
of Tins, round and square, for Pepper, Spice and
Baking Powder, made by improved machinery.
o
A. Trial Solicited..
Business Announcements.
ANDREW KING & CO.,
Wholesale Soft Goods Importers and Warehousemen,
FLINDERS STREET, MELBOURNE,
Opposite Hobson’s Bay Railway Station.
rfHIS old-established house was opened to the Public last Monday as the “MODERN
FAMILY WAREHOUSE,” when the rooms were rushed and the doors had to be
closed.
The Press and the Public have pronounced the Opening Day the Greatest Success
ever achieved in Victoria.
The Goods required no pushing, so Customers were not annoyed by salesmen.
Plain Figures and Good Value at once convinced Purchasers of the advantages to
be gained by buying from a Wholesale House ; and now ANDREW KING & CO. take
position of
Premier Drapers in Victoria.
Parcels delivered at Railway Station on opposite side of street, so that you can do
your shopping in shorter time and with more satisfaction by calling at the “ MODERN
FAMILY WAREHOUSE” as you come into town than by going elsewhere.
Note. —The present Stock is being Sold very much under Wholesale Cost, and
Householders should not neglect this rare opportunity of replenishing their stocks.
Lengths and Quantities to suit all. No Second Prices.
Terms Strictly Cash..
Cj?" Country Orders promptly attended to, and Squatters' Parcels made and sent by return.
Note Addeess :
“The Modern Family Warehouse,
OPPOSITE HOBSON’S BAY STATION.
Federated. Squatters
—AND—
Farmers’ Co-Operative Association of Australasia, Limited,
GIiEbCXJULAIR, Q/TJ-A-YT, SYIONTBY.
WOOL and PRODUCE BROKERS, STOCK and STATION AG-ENTS.
Advances Made and Deposits Received at Current Rates. Correspondence Invited.
Anglo Scandinavian
Cold Medal
Milk.
Acknowledged
The Best
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL
FIRE
Insurance Society.
Established ... ... 1872.'
Roxitisea
OF
20 per cent. Paid Annually
mil
1
Head Office
—THE
Oldest Mutual Fire Office
in Australia.
Claims promptly and liberally
settled. Fifteen days’ g-\'ace
allowed for Renewal of Policies.
Lowest Current Rates charged.
Hon. George Thornton, M.L.C.,
Chairman.
Head Office:
Corner Pitt Si King Streets,
SYDNEY.
Walter Church ... Manager.
Business Announcements.
4 CO
*«*RS
Ve
VwW
4*JS
mh
!>!«
$l3 ti' r , 1
s4c
%s
OSy|^j
MEiKttgga
' d^ h
v,
EUer y
&
s»«ifr
tsofk
MV
BSH'fif
■; a
3 0
WWt
PW
II
U
Uih
MITU
CMP
vS\
■ N >
General Auctioneers and Estate Agents,
335 Collins Street, Melbourne, and 14 Cltapei
Street, South Yarra.
UMBRELLAS
RE-COVERED.
O XUDY ECONOMY
° ard
Have your Umbrella Frames
Re-Covered, and your
Parasols Re-Lined and made
Equal to New, at
J. SULLIVAN’S,
541 George Street,
Prickfikld Hill, Sydney,
between
I iverpoul <f> Bathurst Sts ,
Parasols made to match Cos-
tumes. Repairs neatly done.
GROTH
PAPER-HANGINGS,
Ous,C(jLOURS * Paints.
WALLPAPERS FRo/vK
. PER
ROLL
P/M
529 George
-Brickfield Hill.
pUL VERM ACKER’S WORLD-
FAMED GALVANIC BELTS
FOR THE CURE OF ''
Nervous Exhaustion and Debility, Sciatica,
Lumbago, Rheumatism, &c„
HAVE received Testimonials from Three
Physicians to Her Majesty the Queen and
the Leading Physicians of many London Hospi-
tals, including over Forty Members of the Royal
College of Physicians of London.
For full Price-list and particulars, see new pam-
phlet 1 ‘ Galvanism; Nature’s Chief Restorer of
Impaired Vital Energy.” Pamphlets Free.
Sole Agents for N.S.W.,
FROST <st SHIPHAM
ELECTRICIANS,
474 & 587 George Street, Sydney.
Sole Agents for Victoria:
ALLISON BROS., 477 Gollins-street West, Melbourne.
D. C. L.
VERY = OKI) = SPECIAL
SCOTCH = WHI SKY.
DISTILLERIES CO. (Limited).
THOMAS MCREERY:
MEDICAL HERBALIST,
83 Oxford Street, i doors above Riley Street
Private Disease* of Both Sexes a Speciality.
Consultations Gratis. Charges very Moderate
A Trial Solicited.
A SPEEDY CURE GUARANTEED.
CITY & COUNTY
Investment, Lan ci and Building
Company, Limited.
Authorised Capital, £lOO,OOO ... Reserves and Uncalled Capital, £37,000.
Rates (or Deposits : 12 months, 7 per cent.; 6 months, per cent.; at call, 5 per cent.
Bonus to 12 months’ Depositors.
Directors: J. Garrard, M.P., Hon. J. 11. Youno, M.P., J. P. Walker, J.P., John 0. Hamilton.
J. D. Ward, Manager, 327 Pitt-street, Sydney.
BANK.
327 PITT STREET. SYDNEY.


The Bulletin
Vol. 11 No. 529
SATURDAY, APRIL 5, 1890.
Pries, 6d.
(Shorj-hkhp of a v
“ir Z/fN)(Y GtpKGE
Aadieraidgentlemeit.
di/eWtwttmMarity mm/t Tpa/mditltiaa.
M Itt.teltjau what
Itmmay ( hwmag atait
? fan-fis - Wat daa -00 of the
Ik
iiueathed aatd - at - a o Oft
fj[ppl(iun mil//atent
' itoaut/haut /It amtmeeJ
z*£'A
GAT-SHOO!


The Bulletin
she National Australian Newspaper.
“ Australia for the Australians.'*
Proprietors ; BULLETIN NEWSPAPER C 0.,
Limited.
1 *
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 2 L PITT-STREET, SYDNEY, NEW SOUTH W ALES.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(payable in advance, only).
, , ‘ £lO 0
Per Annum .
Half-yearly ( '
Quarterly ... ••• _••• ••• J
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
\o he addressed to William Macleod, Managing Director.
Literary Communications to he addressed to J. !.
ARCHIBALD.
The Editor will carefully read and acknowledge tn tue
‘ Correspondence" column all contributions submitted
whether in the form of Domical Social, or other Articles,
Verse, Short Talcs or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects and not exceeding tiro columns in
length, or say SOOO words, are specially acceptable).
Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper-Clippings. All
communications will he regarded as strictly confidential.
“ The Bulletin” will return all unavailable MSS when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed But we
desire those sending MSS to distinctly undcistand that
we are not responsible for the preservation or transmission
if such MSS.
NOTICE.
By sending direct to Tire Bulletin Office Twenty Shillings
sterling—which you may pay by Post Office Order, One
Pound Note, or Stamps of any Australian colony—you
can have The Bulletin posted regularly to you every week
for a year.
This offer is not open to residents of Sydney. In that
city The Bulletin is not delivered by mail, but is entirely
■in the hands of our earners, with whom we do not wish
to interfere.
2S? jßtdlelJM.
SATURDAY, APRIL 5, 1890.
The State as Money-Lender.
The face of New South ales Chief .Justice
Dakley flushed and he moved uneasily in
his seat on the Bench when, one day last
week, certain evidence in a loan-office bill-
of-sale case tried before him showed that the
mortgagee’s bailiffs had emptied the water
out of a tea-kettle in order that that utensil
might be the' more easily conveyed to the
auction-mart to be sold with the vest of the
unhappy borrower’s humble belongings in
satisfaction of a promissory-note for a small
sum borrowed at an extortionate rate of
interest. This treatment of a tea-kettle was
undeniably a gross insult to the domestic
sentiment usually inspired by that homely
and genial article. Itself a synonym for
peace, tranquillity and good-fellowship, it
was laid ruthless hands on by the minions of
a merciless creditor, trundled along through
jarring thoroughfares, and, just when it
should have been ministering to a happy
saddler and his honest, apple-vending
wife, it was knocked down in a topsy-turvy
auction-room to the strident bid of some
hook-nosed speculator in household sundries.
The Chief Justice’s indignation was, we may
be sure, pretty generally participated in by
every warm-blooded citizen who heard the
evidence ; so much so, indeed, that from the
prominence given to the item, it is to be
feared that mortgagee Cohen was more dam-
aged in the eyes of the judge and jury by
this rape of the tea-kettle than by the entire
balance of his hurricane and strategically-
managed ransack.
® % * *
Our business at present is not with any
particular item in any bill-of-sale. If the
law be silent while a professional bills-of-sale
man deports under such circumstances a
householder’s chair or table or bedstead, we
don’t care much for its cry of indignant
reproach when the tea-kettle or milk-jug is
appropriated. Sometimes, we are aware, a
sentimental incident focusses attention on an
everyday occurrence, and in this sense
Cohen’s appearance before the Court, with
a phantom tea-kettle giving evidence against
him, we recognise as a salutary and timely
fact. There, however, his public uses end. He
is only one of many, and perhaps he may be
more merciful in his dealings than some of
his fellows. What he does many do. Profes-
sional bills-of-sale men swarm on all sides.
To stamp one out would do the body social
no good. His boots would be tilled as soon
as he vacated them. To net him with senti-
ment and write up damages against him
on that account will only impart additional
elements of uncertainty to the calculations
on which his class do business and thus
supply them with grounds for claiming
higher percentages from their victims all
round. “Money-lending is a most risky
business,” pleads Mr. Cohen. Needy men
borrow. The intensity of their distress de-
termines the value of the money-lender’s
accommodation. The more a, man needs
money the more then he is at the,mercy of
the money-lender.
* * *
. Well, where is the road to reform ?.;• We
utterly distrust the efficacy of lectures from
the bench, however honest and ivcll-meapt.
and human they may be. Sometimes voiced
from that quarter inveigh against the rates
of interest charged. But rates must
vary as the securities of borrowers vary,
as the capital of respective lenders 'fairies.
The security may be good, but- then
capital operated on may be siball,, and the
advance may bo for a brief currency.. At
some periods of a man’s life money is not
worth five per cent, to him ; at critical
junctures it may be worth a hundred. It is
impossible for legislation to put limits either
way. Whenever and wherever such legisla-
tion has been tried people have simply
covenanted outside the law and made ar-
rangements in the main directly into the
hands of the lenders. Alternating with
lectures of all kinds upon the inhumanity of
money-lenders and futile schemes for rigidly
axing the interest on all forms of loans
are the denunciatory jeremiads of those
who charge the customers of the professional
money-lender with almost criminal folly.
But these critics are wholly unreasonable.
Many a man has found Ins professional
money-lender a friend in need. He is in the
minority and has had to pay well for the ac-
commodation, but the accommodation was
real and came at a time when other doors
would not open to his knocks, and by its aid
lie has secured the object he had in view.
Such a man is a living example, not of the
folly, but of the wisdom and absolute neces-
sity, of borrowing. This fact alone goes far
to render valueless the influence of those
who condemn borrowing on principle ; but
when, in addition, it is remembered that
these persons reserve their homilies on the
evils of borrowing for the man who has only
his clothes or furniture to offer as security
and are silent when the large land-holder
seeks an overdraft to still further extend
his possessions, it becomes evident that no
benefit will be derived from trying to work
out a solution on such illogical lines.
# # #
We come now from the realm of homiletic
platitude to that of tested experiment.
Several countries on the continent of Europe
possess State pawnshops, Monts de Piete, or
banks of accommodation. Securities of all
sorts are received by these institutions, and,
as they are conducted by the State, only such
a rate of interest is charged as makes each
institution self-supporting. The institutions
are managed just as a Government savings-
bank or a post-office is managed here, the
officers in charge receiving fixed salaries
independently of the business done. If a man
takes a security to one of these, whether it
be wearing-apparel or the title-deeds of his
house he obtains an advance not calculated
on the intensity of his necessitjq but on the
intrinsic value of the article, and at a rate of
interest in no way reflected from the urgency
of his requirements. If he fail to redeem
the article deposited, or to pay off the mort-
gage, the pledge is sold and the balance over
what was due on it is entered up to his
credit and is as securely his at call as if he
had lodged it in the bank with his own
hands. In France and Germany, where the
system of State accommodation has been for
years in successful operation, there are found
private money-lenders as well; but the
Governments of these countries recognise
and apply the principle that while private
individuals may deal with one another on
their own terms, the public generally are
entitled to access to the public funds on
terms compatible with national progress.
tfe # #
That is the character of the reform Aus-
tralia wants. There is no necessity to rule
the business of pawnbroking or money-
lending out of existence.’ People who like
that way of living can go on side by side
with the Government institutions, and they
will, with certain qualifications, be able to
retain the custom of certain classes. It is
so elsewhere. But as far as the general run
of the necessitous public is concerned
the nails of these financiers will be
pared, their teeth drawn. As it is,
the necessitous must bow to them. Relief
comes from their hands or from none. In
the majority of cases their will is the final
sentence. They can give and temporarily
alleviate, or retain and behold ruin. In
Europe the State intervenes, here it stands
idle. Here it leaves its straitened members
to be stripped, to be pushed still further
down, to be loaded beyond the power to
move, Anglo-Saxon pseudo statesmanship
is always asserting its aversion to becoming
a providence to the individual. If the
individual will rise, it lets him rise ; if he
falls, it will let him go down ; but either
way it professes to stand aloof. The profes-
sion is contrary to fact in many spheres, but
still the assertion keeps going. How does
a sudden pecuniary distress differ from
sickness ? If the less fortunate indi-
viduals be not the care of the State, why
havewehospitals, benevolent homes, asylums '?
These are but a directing to the service of
the distressed, the general resources of the
State. Many a man is in pecuniary diffi-
culties because of an honourable acknow-
ledgment of his obligations. Many a man
is in difficulties because he will not ruin
others harder up than himself by forcing
them to pay him. There are men in diffi-
culties through the insolvency of their era-
ployers, through depression in business,
through Hoods, through droughts. Why are
these to be handed over to financial brigands
while in the coffers of the State there are
funds from which they could be temporarily
accommodated without loss to the community
at large ? \
Tlie Advertiser’s Charity.
Novelists, dramatists, essayists, satirists and
lampooners have from time to time made merry
over the rich old hunks who, after devoting his
whole life to penurious hoarding, miserably adding
cent to dollar, penny to pound, frightened at the
near approach of death, gives some huge slice of his
fortune (or at his demise leaves the whole of it) to
some foundling-institution, orphanage, library,
hospital, or art-academy. To the best of his
ability, throughout the whole of his paltry, pence-
accumulating existence, he grinds down the poor
and moils and worries about making a fortune.
All his days on earth are spent in serving the
Mammon of greed and covetousness ; and then,
at the end of his little span, becoming terrified at
his own heartlessness, selfishness and inhuman
isolation, and thinking to square things with God
and his conscience (for he now, as the outcome of
his debilitation and failing mentality, possesses a
conscience) he hastens to secure a front-seat in the
celestial orchestra-chairs by donating largely to
something or other designated as a “ charity.”
Guy’s Hospital, London, was founded by such a
miser! They receive the reward they deserve,
these miserable creatures; they die and are
speedily forgotten. There is nothing fine, nothing
large, nothing truly benevolent about them. They
are simply superstitious, and their gifts are merely
sops to Cerberus--fines imposed upon their greed
by their fears. “Shrouds have no pockets,” and
they give perforce, because they can take nothing
with them. Often they give to spite their rela-
tives ; often for 'post-mortem fame—-which they
seldom get, for man, universal fool as he is, has
generally an admirable nose for a motive.
# * *
“He who givetli to .the poor lendeth to the
Lord.” Tliis was Swift's text for a charity-
sermon. “If you like the security, down with
the dust,” added the witty Dean. Herein lies the
main reason for most alleged benefactions. Love
of humanity, desire to serve one’s fellow-men!
Nothing of the sort, but a bid for a crown of glory
and fear of the Christian hell! But this typical
raiser of literature is a thing of the past. Har-
pagon is dead, and his epitaph has been written.
Shakespeare’s Shylock and Moliere’s ‘ ‘L’Avare”
no longer dispense the sacred “functions” of
“charity.” Thomas Guy founds no more hos-
pitals. To-day, from his millions, the advertising
speculator tosses to the poor a handful or so of gold,
and cheaply buys a reputation for munificence,
beneficence, and other qualities designated by
abstract nouns of Latin origin. Sir Edward
Guinness, amassing untold and untellable wealth
by purveying drink, gives a few thousands ; Car-
negie, the author of “Triumphant Democracy,!’
purchases “kudos” by liberality; the papers
noise their virtues and grovel amazingly; the
givers are advertised —under false pretences. Of
their liberality before they became millionaires,
history saith nothing. A truly generous man does
not wait for wealth to become charitable. “Be
charitable before wealth make thee covetous, and
lose not the glory of the mite,” said old Sir
Thomas Browne.
# # *
The advertiser of to-day, however, does not
desire to do good for good’s sake. He spends a
certain amount from a great superfluity, and
receives a certain return for his expenditure—a
return commensurate with the amount spent. He
has no desire' for post-mortem fame. In his life-
time he buys a reputation ; he advertises and
publishes his ‘ goodness in the newspapers at
so many thousands per .column. Wealth is
recognised as being something more than a more
means of obtaining rich food, good shelter,
luxurious repose ; it buys power, position, name,
rank, men’s .respect arid simulated affection.
Give and you will be praised ! The advertiser
gives and is praised. There is nothing to grumble
at: only we demand that this sort of thing.be put
on its proper footing. Let ns have no flummery,
no hollowness, no humbug about the matter.
Happened the other day in London a curious
thing : a banquet was given by the Smith soap
proprietary. At this great advertising “func-
tion,” Mr. T. J. Brown, one of the partners, made
a speech. He honestly admitted that they .were
wealthy simply because they advertised. With-
out the press, he said, Smith’s soap would have
had no greater advantage over other soaps than
any common or garden soap of them all, that for
an expenditure of £100,000 per annum in advertis-
ing, his firm received the advantage of a circula-
tion amongst at least one hundred millions of
English-speaking people a year. As Smith and
Co. increased their advertising expenditure, so
were they enabled to sell more cheaply than ever
before. This was sincere, but then Mr. Brown
claimed some laudation for what he had done for
the press by advertising. Why? There is no
obligation on either side; it is purely a business
transaction. At the conclusion of the banquet
Messrs. Smith and Co. presented to the News-
paper Press Fund 1000 guineas, and the donation
was acknowledged with “deafening and long-
continued cheers ” by the pressmen present. Why,
again? Because the gift was nearly double that
of any previous single contribution to the' same
fund. Pshaw! The amount was merely the
price of an advertisement, nothing more.
* # *
Pullman, the car-maker, always flatters the
press and pressmen. When he supplies a Govern-
ment, or a company, with his cars, he makes
certain stipulations for the benefit of travelling
pressmen. The pressmen chuckle thereat im-
mensely, and advertise the clever schemer to his
heart’s content, just as the Roman rabble cheered
for any and every emperor who gave them bread
and provided them with games. Smith and
Pullman have something to sell — soap and
railway carriages ; Guinness and Carnegie have
something to buy-a reputation for goodness, or
whatever they call it; and they all advertise then-
various wares in a business fashion, although the
buyers are very apt to put the question on a false
footing. What merit have they, anyway? Is
the wealth theirs? Yet, if we recognise the right
of a man to monopolise a portion of the earth,
above and beyond the needs of his bodily and
mental existence on it, wo recognise, his right to
the whole should he manage to obtain it
beneath existing conventional laws of property
and of commerce. When a millionaire, a Duke of
Westminster, for example, makes millions per an-
num by neglecting his tenantry, by sub-letting
and rent-sweating, nobody raises a voice against
his selfish inhumanity. When he foregoes a few
thousands per annum out of his yearly millions,
and advertises well the fact that he intends to
devote this paltry sum to the better housing of the
poor—whose fathers and grandfathers have rotted
to death, whose children have faded away, on his
estate—the press of the whole civilized world,
joined in one monumental grovel, applauds
his Grace’s “charity,” wallows in the dirt
at his Grace’s feet, and licks the ducal dust
from off his Grace’s boots. For weeks then,
afterwards, are we treated by the capitalistic
press to slobbery leaders on the “responsibilities
of wealth.”
# # *
We do not recognise the responsibility of
wealth ! Wealth has no responsibilities, because
it has no rif/hts —no rights, we mean, that are not
purely conventional and arbitrary ; no rights
which are not the outgrowth of miserable circum-
stance and paltry expediency. In a broader,
higher sense, every man has a great and noble
right, the splendid responsibility of his brother’s
welfare. The wealthy may have all they can
grab. They may be conscience-pricked and relax
their grasp upon a fraction, if they choose. It
matters little ! We recognise only the fact that
every man has a right to the full realisation of all
his mental and physical potentialities. The
speculative enterprises of the Smiths and the
Pullmans, of the Guinnesses and the Caknegies,
interfere with this right. It signifies little, that a
man becomes very good after being as bad as he
wished to be; as when to attain a special end the
roue turns saint when no longer his senses minister
to his animal gratification. It is very fine to be
open-handed within limits, after being, for one’s
life-time, close-fisted without limits. But let it
pass ! The rich are entitled to all they can get, if
they are entitled—from the stand-point of abstract
reason—to get anything beyond what another
gets. We must be logical! Socialism says no
man has a right which is another man’s wrong. It
is possible that Socialism is on the more rational
track.
# # *
Tolstoi, in his “Two Brothers and Gold,”tells
a story of two men devoted to the service of
humanity. One day they found a treasure of
gold. One brother fled from it as from a tempta-,
tion of the Devil. The other gathered it up,,
went into a city with it, built infirmaries,
hospitals, charitable institutions. Men called
this brother good, holy, noble, what-not;
he rubbed himself down with their praise
as a South Sea Islander rubs himself down
with cocoanut-oil. Then he began to desire
his brother’s company. He went into the fields to
look for him, thinking : “My brother reasoned
wrong when he jumped away from the gold and
fled. Haven’t I done better?” An angel inter-
cepts him and tells him that he is unworthy to
live with so good a brother. “ Thy brother’s leap
is worth more than all those things that thou hast
done with thy gold.”, The man explains all about
the poor, the wanderers, the orphans he has suc-
coured ; but the angel comes down on him, like a
blackbird on a worm, with: “ The Devil, who put
down the gold to seduce thee, also taught thee
these words. ” This little fable po tty accurately
describes the position of a man—laudated by a
silly, drivelling newspaper press—who, after sub-
mitting without, a complaint to the iniquitous
existing condition of things, endeavours to make
his peace with his conscience by donating a
decimal of his fearful superfluity to the service of
his race. The modern advertiser, however, does
not .do this. He merely buys a reputation for
benevolence, and he gets it under the false pre-
tence of being genuinely charitable; but very
likely the beautiful theory of compensation comes
in here, and the purchased reputation is about as
false as the benevolence with which he bought it.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Whose Brief—God’s or the Devil’s?
Hon. Julian E. Salomons, Q. 0., whoso speech
(so styled by courtesy) at Mr. Copeland's recent
anti Single-tax meeting was a prettily-dovetailed
arrangement of Choctaw war-whoops and Mrs.
Grundy’s hysteric shrieks, is charged by those
who have read Henry George’s works with put-
ting words into that economist’s mouth which the
economist himself never uttered. Wo don’t doubt
the truth of the charge. When a man publicly
laments his expenditure of the paltry sum of three
shillings on as many volumes whose literary excel-
lence is unquestionable, though their logic (like
much of Mr. Salomons’) may not be unassailable,
lie parades the undisguised outlines of an egotistic
personality which can grasp nothing but the re-
flection of its own petty knowledge, and is conse-
quently incapable of appreciating the teachings of
such a man as George. Mr. Salomons’ indigna-
tion at George’s “insult to himself and the
Almighty ” —the collocation is not ours but the
Honorable Julian’s— is therefore no reflection on
the ’Frisco prophet—rather, indeed, the contrary.
Nevertheless, as in the wise economy of Nature
there is nothing useless —as even the dust of a
C.esar, of a Parkes, of a Queen’s Counsel, may
be turned to profit by blocking the pathway of
rude Boreas through a bung-hole—so Mr. Salo-
mons’ indignation, spurious and rotten-based as it
is, is not absolutely worthless ; it is of service as
an illustration of the mental processes out of
which are evolved a great legal reputation. It is
immaterial to the present issue whether George
did say that, if poverty were always to flourish
upon the earth he would refuse to believe in the
goodness of a Gon which permitted the wail of the
homeless and the breadless to ascend perpetually
to His ears, but it is particularly material that Mr.
Salomons waxed warm in his defence of Ins eidolon
of a Deity which would permit the measureless
enormities of existing social systems to continue
to the crack o’ doom. If the Power—call Him or
It what you will, God or Krishna, or the Un-
conditional Absolute —meant us, says Salomons,
to read the riddle of this painful world, He (or It)
would never have propounded the riddle. If He
(or It) did not think poverty a good thing, says
Salomons, Ho or It would not have allowed
poverty to exist for a day or an hour. And so on,
and so on. Because things are, therefore they are
right, says Salomons, and as he says it, he bo\vs
his head in reverence before the God in whom w
believes. But what of the Deity whom he ad-
dressed, and on whose behalf he. held a brief.
Was it the All-Father —the Power who worketh
for. righteousness through faulty human instru-
ments such as George, or was it some modern
Moloch —some fetish of smug nineteenth-century
Respectability proper to be worshipped from their
faldstools stuffed with bank-notes, by the wealthy
and prosperous ones of society—some Dagon unto
whom the heart-pang of the woman who sells her
virtue to get bread for her child,"and the torture
of the man who barters his honesty for medicine
for his dying wife, are incense, gratifying as the
flesh of roast virgin unto its ancient ante-type-
Which was it, we ask, whom Salomons defended.
The God of the Jew and the Christian, or the
Deified Devil? Be a man Georgite or anti-
Georgite, if his ears be open to hear the
Sad music of humanity,
and to the measureless moan of suffering men and
women and children who suffer helplessly because


of conditions for which they are in no sense re-
sponsible, his heart and mind will go out together
in the spontaneous shout of “ Devil!” Salomons
may have thought he was fighting the cause of
the Almighty, but the professional bias was too
strong for his wishes. As is customary with bar-
risters who represent the “ proputtied ” classes in
the courts, he simply held a candle to the Other
Personage.
“ For the Money There’s in It.”
We don’t know whether there is any truth in the
assertion—openly made and as openly applauded
in a, crowded meeting—by a member of theN.S.W.
United Laborers’ Society the other night, to the
effect that many of the members of theN.S.W.
Trades and Labour Council were labour advocates
just because it paid them, or as the speaker put in
“for the money there’s in it —and, what is more,
we don’t care. The Bulletin does not feel impelled
or inclined to take u pon itself the function of Father
Confessor in particular cases of conscience, or
adviser on matters with which the parties chiefly
concerned are as competent to deal as itself. And
therefore The Bulletin is not going to say that it
cares a lot whether the allegation is a true bill or
not. If it be true, the artisans and labourers who
elect the Council are the persons affected by it,
and, considering the intimacy of the relations
which should and, as a fact, do exist between
themselves and their delegates, it is their own
fault if the latter fail to represent the Societies or
anything or anybody but their own sweet selves.
If the constituents of the Societies are content to
be represented by men who pose as mouthpieces
for labour interests, and labour needs, just for the
sake of the dollars which in a more or less round-
about—not to say crooked—manner come to
them as a reward, who shall say them
nay? Not The Bulletin, whoever does.
When men like to be kicked, we do not
see any sort of use in expostulating with
the kicker. We prefer to reserve our energies
for the help of those to whom kicking is repugnant
but who cannot get out of the kicker’s way.
Therefore we say that if this United Labourer is
right it serves the Societies right for nominating
as their delegates men who are not heart and soul
and body in their service. But on the general
principle of the purity of labour advocacy we have
just one word to say. Where there is a man who
shows himself open to be influenced in the degree
of his devotion to labour interests by the considera-
tion of pay, or the more subtle but not less power-
ful one of place or office, that man is an incipient
traitor to the cause of Labour. When a member
of a trade organisation requires the stimulant.of a
seat on the committee, or a vice-presidency to a
presidency, with or without screw, to prompt him
to put out his shoulder to help to uplift his
society’s burden, it’s only a matter of time and of
terms for him to sell his class. It is the fellow
who doesn’t care whether he gets out of the ruck
or not, but goes in bald-headed and square-toed
into the work and for the work’s sake and his
side’s sake that is to be depended upon in the hour
of trial. He will stand steadfast in the face of the
capitalist guns which are loaded with —bribes.
“Hanging 1 ” that Chicago Jury.
The Bulletin doesn’t know anything about the
man Culver who “hung” the Chicago Cronin-
case jury until it gave way on the death-sentence.
He may be a doddering idiot, or a one-notioned
fanatic, or a miserable, black-souled, snake-eyed,
&c., perjurer. Or possibly he is a chip of the Tee-
totality of Matter and the whole three-in-one.
But he doesn’t look like it from this distance. If
our daily papers would but wipe the rheum from
their eyes, and buy a sixpenny telescope apiece,
instead of taking everything for granted that they
read in sensational Yankee dailies, they’d not
have set up such a braying for thistles in the
matter. Nobody charges that the Clan-na-Gael
bought Culver or that he was “ packed ” into the
j u ry. He was taken on as aci tizen whom neither s ide
could object to though the antecedents of every
juryman were being investigated under the micro-
scope. He was all right then. He was the noble
juryman Culver, a son of this “great arid glpry-us
state uv Illynoise,” a man who feared God and
said his prayers, and had taken a curdling oath on
the sacred book to do his duty in spite of all the
Olan-na-Gaels or the Big Biig-a-boo. He is all
wrong now. He had had a little experience of the
law, it appears, and had seen the police get up a
case before. Consequently—one might almost
fancy he’d read the Mount Rennie case—he didn’t
take the gilt-edged police statements as all butter,
but put them down as partly oleomargarine; and
as a further consequence, he differed materially
from the other eleven, who had evidently
taken the police-story for Gospel, and were
shocked at the insinuation that a police-
witness could tell a lie. What ! An honest
police witness who got paid by the day to tell the
truth, the whole truth, and nothing but the truth!
George Washington would as soon have thought
of not chopping the old gentleman’s cherry-tree !
That was the way they looked at the case and
where they differed from Culver. Anyway, these
are only facts to be sifted from any and every
report of the affair. Culver is abused solely
because he wouldn’t knuckle down. He wasn’t
convinced, and he hung to it until the gallows lost
its grapes and one man went free —while, actually,
the court itself intends to discharge another of the
four convicted. There is a howl against Culver
because the Chicago mob was shrieking for blood
just as it shrieked for the anarchists’ blood, and
just as the Sydney mob shrieked for blood in the
Mount Rennie case—which began with lewdness
and ended with four murders. Chicago is ashamed
of hanging the anarchists already, and Sydney
wouldn’t hang the Mount Rennie case victims
to-day any more than it hanged Buttner.
If this means much, it means that Culver
will live to see the asses who now call him fool
speak of him approvingly as the juror who stayed
three days in the jurymen’s den, and there saved
from blood-guiltiness the people of Chicago.
Temperance versus Dividends,
A pamphlet on the “Temperance Cause in its
Relations with Melbourne Coffee Palaces,” would
hardly prove a text-book for teetotallers, and a
disquieting influence to such as love to feel
their lotion “bite them” when it reaches its
destination. One Melbourne hotel—the Grand —
was indeed ostensibly captured from the drink
fiend, and now flies the flag of Total Abstinence,
but there seems to be a general impression that
the aforesaid refuge from temptation might revert
to the unholy license of a pub. without making any
material difference to the good work. In fact, the
Grand lost its reputation for strict sobriety when
Acting-Governor Robinson and Co. took posses-
sion of its best rooms a year ago. Everybody
knew that a man of his quality, not having
“sworn off,” would naturally keep a bottle on the
chimbley-piece, and put his lips to it when
he felt so dispoged. Likewise was it generally
known that the suite took their pizon on the
premises. In fact, there wasn’t and isn’t any further
excuse for deluding oneself into a belief that the
building couldn’t answer the purpose of a Grand
Whisky Palace for such as like to bring in the
elixir and swallow it on the spot. But while a
certain bogus odour of sanctity still hangs around
the converted pub., the Federal Coffee Palace,
which was founded on temperance principles and
bears the name of Nimmo engraved upon one of its
chief corner-stones, has thrown the emblematical
coffee-pot out of the window, and lo ! the directors,
scream aloud for permission to retail rum. Last
week the chairman of this great Innocuous Fluid
Trust faced the sons of temperance in public meet-
ing and suggested, without a blush, that it was
better to sell bad drink at a profit than to uphold
glorious principles at a loss. The apostle Nimmo
seconded this awful resolution; in a general
kind of way another good man pointed out that
“ the ti’ansfer of a spirit license from a second-
rate house to the Federal Palace would be in the
interests of temperance,” -And finally the main body
of water-drinkers went right out for the rum-
traffic by a large majority. As the meeting broke
up a weird, peculiar burst of muffled laughter
seemed to be stealing upwards from the bowels of
the earth. There was a ring of unearthly exulta-
tion in the top-notes of this fiendish cackle. It
was the noise of Nicodemus and his angels, re-
joicing over the discomfiture of another limited
liability scheme for the regeneration of mankind.
To be serious, however. Experience has proved
the absurdity of expecting Temperance to
yield a dividend in an extravagant structure,
erected upon a costly site, like this same Federal
Coffee Palace. The sacred rights of Capital
demand that the moving spirit in this pious under-
taking shall be turned inside out, by means of a
special Act of Parliament, if possible. Teetotalism
is a good thing when you get it, but where is the
virtue in running a coffee palace in which, as the
chairman pathetically explained, “from 80s. to £2
per day had actually been spent for ice to cool the
fermented liquors brought in by visitors, and on
which the company made no return whatever ?”
While the coffee was going cold for want of
customers, the customers were fighting for free ice
to reduce the temperature of rum purchased from
the enemy. Shareholders have stuck to their
principles until they are tired. Henceforth they
will go for interest, and try to stick to that.
—_—.
Although the burial-place of our decayed human
vegetation will not be an affair of much moment
on Resurrection Day—when we shall all be re-
quired to make the best of our way to the Judg-
ment-seat, and must all enjoy facilities for getting
there at a stated time—it was at least a grace-
ful sentiment which inspired Mr. W. F. Walker,
of Melbourne, to request that his remains and
those of his daughter should be shipped across
from England and planted in the country to which
he owed everything except the accident of his
birth. Walker died, as it happened, within easy
distance of his native place, but instead of
maundering away his last moments in praises
of the dear old home where he was born,
the Australian-Englishraan turned his dim eyes in
the opposite direction, and begged to be taken
back to Australia. How different to a China-
man ! How different to the Sir Salmon Wilson
class of squatters, who scorn the soil which has
made them rich, and delight to live and die and
be buried as far away from it as possible. Com-
menting on Mr. Walker’s funeral, which took
place recently, a Melbourne paper “ gets at ”
the A. N. A, with the reminder that “ there
are not a few among us who would deny to men of
this stamp the right to assist in our legislation
during their lives, and, on their deaths, the title
to be called Australian. ” What kind of Austra-
lian is native Spofforth, now, as compared with
the British-born Walker?
With the advance of democracy there are signs
visible that the military officer is about to be
deposed from his self-elected position of social
autocrat. A few weeks ago the members of the
Essex Hunt told the officers of the Royal Dragoons
stationed at Colchester that they need not show
up at the hunt anymore. Of course a great many
‘ ‘ loyal ” people in the dear old mother country
have gone into convulsions at such an out-
rage, and one writer in the press actually
says that if such conduct be allowed the
social position of military officers may be
affected thereby. The usual outcry has been '
raised against the accursed snobbishness of the
retired soap-boiler, and the newly rich oats-meat
man, but all the same it appears that some
Englishmen are acquiring independence when
they show themselves prepared to shake off the
rule of that prince of exclusive cads “the officer
and the gentleman. ” The military officer has had
a very nice time of it indeed throughout British
dominions. With nothing to travel on but a
gaudy uniform, a stock of native impudence, and
a knowledge of social habits, he has ever taken the
first place and ruffled it with the best, yet had any
other class in the community obtained such a
character there would have long ago been a big
blank representing it.
+
The only director of the Melbourne Coffee Palace
Company who is a temperance advocate is Mr.
James Warnock. He declares that —
Experience had shown the directors that threepenny
cups of coffee, when sold in such a large building, would
not pay interest on the capital invested, and that their
only hope of making the company a success was by
changing it into a hotel. It was not intended, however - ,
to increase the number of houses in the district, but to
ask Parliament for permission to purchase some hotel in
the district and transfer the licence to the palace. He
contends that if the company were allowed to do this they
could purchase the licence of some small, undesirable
hotel and close it, thereby doing good to all concerned.
He would not, however, be in favour of the number of
hotels being increased, and would sooner lose all the
money he had invested in the company than have the
directors apply for a new licence.
Mr. Warnock is playing fast and loose with the
temperance question. He wouldn’t increase the
number of licenses, not he, but he would multiply
the number of drinkers, though, by removing a
license from a “small, undesirable hotel,” in
which he had no interest, to a large, desirable
hotel, in which his monetary interests are con-
siderable. Faugh !
♦
The Bulletin has no faith in Balfour’s Irish
Land Purchase Bill. The settlement of the Irish
question, by land-purchase, is simply a temporary
shifting of the land-robbers’ grip from one part
of the earth to _ another—the closing up of a sore
in one place which is bound to breakout in another
with increased vigor; secondly, any system of
purchase followed not by the nationalization of
the land, but by its sale on deferred payments, is
merely a perpetuation of the old evil, only a tem-
porary stoppage of absenteeism, a temporary-
bursting-up of large estates. The State, if it
buys, must buy to keep and not to sell.
♦
The experience of Reuben Keirl, 6f Melbourne,
teaches him that there is more mercy in a certain
local money-lender than in a representative person
like Sir Archibald Micmie, Q.C. When the
“financier ’’suggested to that intensely loyal knight
that it would be better to tear up a bill, or some-
thing, left by Keikl as bogus security (seeing that
the document hadn’t been negotiated), Michxe,
grand old man! says —“Nothing of the sort. 1
protest against its being destroyed. It would be
anything but the proper thing to do.” Hear,
hear ! Sir Archibald Mlchik, knight. How can
the blessed law take its due course, and all that
sort of thing, if we forego any opportunity for
prosecuting a reckless speculator? Let ns always
do the proper thing, Michte. Let us cut the
painter attaching ns to a Government which con-
nived at the escape of Lord Arthur Somerset
and his crew of pestilential British peers. Let us
arrange all the nobodies who have acquired tin-pot
titles in a line, and jeer at them. It might be the
proper thing to do. Let us ask Miohie, and many
others of his kidney, to explain what is the proper
thing, and whether they think they are proper
things themselves.
The time has now arrived, yells A.N.A. Ptjrves,
Q.C., when the colonies should demand equal
representation with England in arising causes of
quarrel, and the main object of the A.N.A. is
“ to foster that national spirit of independence of
thought which would enable the people of the
colonies to take their proper (good word, ‘ proper! ’)
place in the battle-roll of the British Empire.”
All of which proves that the A.N.A., unless
Pijeves maligns it, requires to go and cool itself
under the pump, and that he being blatant,
bilious, brow-beating and bumptious ought
to _ take his place in the sausage-rolls of the
British Empire, without more' ado. Here is a
man, posing as the champion of Young Austra-
lians, who can stand up on his two silly hind legs,
and without having his wig on, tell them that
they must work and work until they become en-
titled to travel 16,000 miles for the purpose of ex-
changing shots with England’s “enemies ” at two-
pence half-penny a day. Calmly, deliberately,
and with a full sense of the full meaning of every
Word now uttered, we say that Purves is only fit
to be a saveloy.
Most visitors to. Venice, in making the (/rand
tour en grand t'enue (Guide Book, and Potts Point
French), have noticed outside' of St. Mark’s a
couple of lamps which are always kept burning.
The practice has no religious significance as is
generally supposed, but commemorates the unjust
doom of one Foenaretto, a baker’s boy, who was
executed for a murder he had not committed. Those
chartered libertines of the investing world, the
shareholders in the Australian Gaslight Company,
should petition Government to similarly com-
memorate every man who has been judicially,
unjustly, wantonly, and unnecessarily murdered
in N.S. Wales. The increased demand for light
would be good for another five per cent, annual
div.
Hon. Alexander Hay, M.L.C.,a millionaire
legislator of S.A., was once a shepherd in that
colony.
Mr. A. W. Howitt, who commanded the
relief-party that brought in John King, the sur
vivor of the Burke and Wills expedition, and who
afterwards brought the bones of the explorers
from Cooper’s Creek to Melbourne, has been ap-
pointed secretary to the Victorian Mining De-
partment. Another member of the party was
Mr. E. J. Welch, now of Sydney. A third was
Dr. Murray, of “Carl " notoriety.
Kegan, Paul and Co., the London pub-
lishers, are in negotiation for the publication of
the autobiography of a certain colonial “states-
man,” on terms which the author himself declares
to be “ habsolutely hnnprecedented for—er—er—
similar work.” Imagination recoils from figuring
out the sum which would be paid for the MS. if
the alleged autobiography were really a full, true,
and particular account of the old man’s life.
Dr. Kennion owed his promotion to the
Bishopric of Adelaide to the fact that Sir James
Fergusson—once Governor of South Australia,
and now Under-Secretary of State for Foreign
Affairs —is his brother-in-law. His wife isn't
handsome, and there is no hope of any little
Kennions, but it is said she and the See were mar-
ried together. Anyhow the hymeneal and the
prelatical bonds were synchronously accepted.
“Bill” (the Hon. W., M.L.C.) Long,
capitalist and racing-man, who has been admitted
as a barrister but has never practised, was asked
in the witness-box, the other day, to give from
memory the contents of a certain legal document.
He endeavoured to comply and added apologeti-
cally : “ Although a barrister, your Honor, I am
no lawyer.” “ Ah,” said Salomons, Q. 0., “ there
are plenty of barristers like you, Mr. Long. ”
According to Truth, the two best-looking
men in the Commons are Sydney Windham and
Sydney Herbert; the best-looking Irishman is
Parnell; the best-looking Liberal is Herbert
Gardner; and the least ill-looking Liberal-
Unionist, Sir Henry James. The, best debaters in
the House, after Gladstone, are Sir William Har-
court, Bradlaugh, Balfour, T. P. O’Connor, Sir
John Gorst, H. Fowler and Colonel Sanderson.
Lord Arthur Somerset’s name has been
removed from the Army List, the Commission of
the Peace, and the military pension-list. He
recently applied for the post of Master of Horse
to the Sultan, but his reputation was too “high ”
even for Turkey. ‘ ‘ Look here, Somerset, ” said
his commanding-officer ere the former “cleared ”;
1 ‘ you must stand your trial over this business, or
blow your brains out like a man.” Somerset
elected to do neither.
Gne Frank Hudson last year in London
wrote a novel called the “Mad World.” The
instant it was announced someone made him
change its title on the ground that it was copy-
right in respect to a certain pamphlet on lunatic
asylums. The other day Hudson announced
another novel, called the “Loose Rein,’’and when
it had all been printed the copies had to be des-
troyed because somebody else had published some-
thing or other called the “ Loose Rein.”
A compatriot describes Louise Michel as
“ A priestess of the Terror, who has become clerk
of a Revolutionary court. Her face flames with
colour; from the centre of her ostrich-egg-shaped
forehead her untidy hair cascades into her neck.
She is dressed in black, and no smallest ribbon,
flower, or jewel shows trace of feminine grace.
She looks into vacancy. Her eyes are not fierce—
filled rather with that embracive tenderness
which is the origin of all Socialism.”
Gov. Carington, says the Wellington (N.Z.)
Evening Post, was not highly impressed with the
aristocratic bearing of the “upper circles” of
Dunedin. At one of the local Governor’s garden-
parties H.E. of N.S.W., apparently under the
impression that he wars addressing a distinguished
visitor from Australia, remarked incidentally that
he had never seen a more common-looking crowd
than was there assembled in the Fern Hill grounds.
Unfortunately the man addressed happened to lie
a leading citizen of Dunedin.
The Trucker.
[FOR THE BULETIN.]
If you want a game to tame you and to take you?
measure in,
Try a week or two of truckingin a mine
Where the rails arc never level forahalf a vn inute
spin,
And the curves'are short and sharp along the
line.
Try the feverish bottom level, down five hundred
feet of shaft,
Where the atmosphere is like a second suit,
When the wash is full of water and you’ve got to
run the graft,
For there’s forty ton of gravel in the shoot.
“Want a job o’ truckin’, dost, tha?”‘ says the
boss, old Geordie Hist,
“ Th’ shift’s a trucker short, but aw don’ know
Can’st tha do th’ work, though, think’st tha? Ar't
a pretty decent fist?
Eh, well, dam’ee ! thooean try ic ; go below.”
The cage is manned, the knocker clangs and
clatters on the brace,
The engine draws a deep, defiant breath
To inflate her lungs of iron, and in silence, face to
face,
We drop into the darkness deep as death.
Then a fairy sense of lightnesg and of floating on
the night,
A sudden glare and No. 3 is passed ;
Soon a sound of warring waters and another rush
of light—
“ All clear !” The up-trip never seems so fast.
It is rough upon the tyro that first tussles with
the trucks —
The wretched four with worn, three-cornered
wheels
So sure to fall to his lot and to floor him if his
pluck’s
Not O.K. when Ids mates are on his heels.
Then the struggle at the incline, and the deuced
ticklish squeeze
At the curves where strength alone not all
avails,
And the floundering in the mullock, and the badly-
broken knees
Before he learns to run upon the rails.
But it’s like all other grafting, and the chap that’s
got the grit
Won’t tucker out with one back-racking shift,
And when sweated to condition with his muscles
firm and fit,
He’ll disdain to stick at seven trucks of drift.
He can swarm around the pinches with a scramble
and a dash,
And negotiate the inclines just as pat;
And the sheets of iron rattle and the waters surge
and splash
As he shoots the “ full ’tins ” in along the plat.
Now the “ empties ” wind and clatter down the
drive and through the dark—
As “ blowing ” spells those backward journeys
serve—
On before, deep set in darkness, glints and glows a
feeble spark,
The candle burning dimly at the curve.
After cribs are polished off, and when the smoke
begins to rise
And cling about the_“ caps ” and in the cracks,
There’s a passing satisfaction in the patriarchal
lies
Of the “Geordie” pioneers and “Cousin
Jacks ”
Lanky Steve’s unwritten stories of the fun of ’52,
Or the dashing days at Donkey Woman’s Flat,
Of traps and beaks and heavy yields, and pugilists
put through,
And lifting up the flag at Ballarat.
Yes, the truckers’ toil is rather heavy grafting as
a rule—
Much heavier than the wages, well I know,
But the life’s not full of trouble, and the fellow is
a fool
Who cannot find some pleasure down below.
EDWARD DYSON.
Men Hunger with. Fatness Around Them.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
“ Lord, how long shall the wicked, how long- shall the
wicked triumph ? They prate and speak arrogantly. Aye,
all the workers of iniquity glorify themselves and break
in pieces thy people, O Lord. They afflict thine heritage
—they slay the widow and the stranger and murder the
fatherless.”—94th Psalm.
Men hunger with fatness around them,
And thirst when the waters flow near,
For tyrants and rulers have bound them
And dulled all their senses with fear.
“ Go hence from the fields that are waving,
From the vineyard where ripens the vine,
Go hence with a stomach that’s craving—
Go hence for these broad lands are mine.
“Go ! slave to the cities o’er-crowded, ■
And starve in this land of ‘ the free ’
Till your hunger and rags are enshrouded
In the land that belongs all to me.
“ When you walk in the dust of the highway
Your footsteps I claim as my own ;
Go sneak by the fence and the byway,
And whine like a cur for a bone.”
• • • • • •
But —these rags have a soul that is waking
And watching the coming of dawn,
And Freedom the dark cloud is breaking
With footsteps as light as the fawn.
Th ' wide world shall thunder her glory
The earth shall grow red in the sun
For the truth’s in the pages of story—
That “ Freedom by warfare is won.”
ARTHUR DESMOND.
New Zealand.
“ There is no one more worthy of respect
than the highly-cultivated Jew,” says the Sydney
correspondent of a Melbourne paper, “ but the
lowest class of Hebrew— the flash bookmaker, the
low, cunning trader, and the grasping usurer are
to be despised.” Every word of which is an ever-
lasting truth. Yet no Christian could sit out a
performance of Mozart's masterpieces while Ikey
Mo. was waiting round the corner to pay him his
“double,” or old father Abraham had the neces-
sary documents of a shixty per shout loan ready
to sign. Sometimes the uncultivated Jew gets on
.top.


[?]
846 Maoquarie-slieet North, Sydney, April 2, 1890.
My Dear Moorabinda,—
The other day—in a threepenny ’bus—l blushed-a
f rom-pale-water - melon - right - through - turkey - red-up-to-
copper-colour blush, one of the many facial signals cf
distress which are always induced by some giddiness,
some fault of demeanour, on the part of my poor dear
sex. And this time the warm colour mantled in my
peach-like cheek because of a girl who got in carrying
some hairpins, a bonnet-pin, her gloves and a brooch in
her bare hands, and, sitting there with two young men
gaping at her —and me—and the boy slamming about for
fares, that modest maiden first of all fixed up the coil of
hair it the back of her head with her hairpins (articles, by
the way, that such recent beings as our grandmother con-
sidered as confidential as garters), regardless of the over-
whelming aspect of her figure as she did so. This accom-
plished, she plunged the big pin through her rakish sailor
bat, while the young men glanced furtively at her over
their newspapers. And then came the brooch, which
wouldn’t catch at once, when the maiden grew as visibly
pettish as if she were in front of her dressing-glass
and not in a public vehicle “ spotted ” by strangers.
And then, with the air of a woman who is perfectly
satisfied with herself, she commenced pulling on her
gloves, fastening the last button as the ’bus stopper!
to let her out ! An omnibus may make a very good
substitute for a dressing-room, and when it passes your
door I suppose it is a temptation to put on your gloves in
it, but surely hairpins are outside the pale of articles
which can be personally attached in public ? And if not
where will we stop ? Will the coming girl button her
boots against the opposite seat in the tramcar or non-
chalantly tighten her garters on board a ferry-boat? And
will the coming man be accustomed to seeing the coming
woman “ just catch ” her train with her boots in onehand
and her bonnet in the other?
And in this connection it is interesting to note that
when a man is hurried it’s bis breakfast suffers, not his
toilet. The utmost license he allows himself in a public
vehicle is to give an uncomfortable hitch to his collar anti
gulps down the last mouthful—a habit which his wife s #
ing opposite with her breakfast gently digesting, biu
with her gloves and bangles and pins on her knees, in-
wardly stigmatises as “dreadful” before finishing her
toilet in front of the curtain, as it were.
An awful accident occurred at a Sydney theatre the
other night resulting in the dire confusion of a beauteous
damsel and the shrivelling up of a misguided man who
started out at half-time to see if the country floods had
abated. As he passed the lady he kicked what he thought
were her opera-glasses into the aisle, and immediately
restoring them he found to his cold-freezing horror that
he was politely handing a boot to the scowling syren I It
was a large No. 16 kind of tootsie-casket, too, and that
girl looked as if a sudden convulsion of Nature would
have been thankfully received. P.S. —In wet weather
women who suffer from corns and other physical pedal
barometers should go to the theatre in shoe-trunks.
On dit that the Mayoress of Sydney (Mrs. Burdekin)
intends issuing invitations for a private ball to happen
shortly after the big festivity, when many who have not
received cards for the public gathering will be soothed
and comforted by semi-private hospitality.
A distinguished Canadian athlete —to state his special
department of athletics would be to give him away— at
present doing Australia, got a severe check at a suburban
concert the other evening. He was seated in the front
row and started to make conquest of a well-known lady
pianiste on the platform, with covert winks and fetching
smiles, and at half-time sent behind to request an intro-
duction. It was refused point-blank. The athlete left,
early. I am told that falling in love isn’t good from a
training point of view, and had I been the girl my reply
would have been to that effect.
In a Sydney paper I struck the following ad. the other
day:—
\\7ANTED, NEEDLEWORK, by the day, good
’’ machinist, i?s. Od. LT., 41 Foveaux-street,
Surry Hills,
Which means that, for a working woman’s day of nine
hours, she is paid at the magnificent rate of a fraction
over fourpence-halfpenny an hour. And even at this des-
perate figure 1 find, on inquiry, that many Sydney seam-
stresses cannot find a market either for their labour or
the results of it. The two things mainly responsible for
this sad state of affairs are—the convents and the prisons.
In these the inmates are taught to sew, and their work is
sold to retail businesses at a far lower figure than that of
the seamstresses, who must charge a slight advance on
cost-price to enable themselves to keep going. A pur-
chaser of prison or convent needlework pays for the
calico, embroidery, and thread, and gets the labour
literally as a bonus—and as bonuses, whether in ter,
flour, or featherstitch are irresistible, prison and con vet •
made “bargains” simply boss the market, and the seam-
stresses must either steal their material or work
absolutely for nothing to compete with them. It’s a
hopeless outlook for her of the “ fingers weary and worn,”
isn’t it? A Bill to “raise the price of prison-made
clothing to current market rates,” or something like that,
would put her on an equal footing with her enemy, at any
rate, wouldn’t it? Your Sappho never did understand
t he effect of legislation.
It was probably the announcement made in a fashion-
able weekly that “ lockets on velvet tied round the neck,
with ends hanging at the back, would be popular,” that
induced a woman with a cheat like an inverted saucer full
of dints to come out with one on at Her Majesty’s theatre
the other night. The effect was awful, for it was a great,
flat, shiny locket, and, ns the wearer palpitated under the
influence of the drama, it banged about wildly from one
cavity to the other, cruelly accentuating the inequalities
of the pine-plank bosom it adorned. Only a woman with
a tremendous swell can wear a locket. On a famished
“crop" it plays bo-peep in the hollows, balances un-
steadily on the ridge-pole breast-bone, and falls with a
dull, sickening thud on to the gristle beneath, whence it
takes a flight into the “no thoroughfares” beneath the
whalebones, to be hauled up vigorously when nobody
seems to be noticing. To wear a locket poetically is a
privilege for ever denied to the Sylph-like.
Giddy agony advt. from the S. M. H.: —
O. 474.—Treat the Waiter as of no importance if
asked—on no account deny it. 474.
Nonsense. A far safer plan is to “ treat the waiter ”
not as of no importance, but deeply and often, and then
bless you, he will deny it all for you. At least, so Fred.
says.
The upper circles in a large Australian city have been
much exercised lately over the gyrations of a certain
aspiring female who owns an impossible husband with a
genius for money-making among the “ bulls ” and
“ bears,” and who only lives to be regarded as an equal
by the Pure Merinos of her native town. But though her
ambition is excusable, the way she sets about it shows an
infantile ignorance of the awful influence of woman
in Society that is simply depressing to an unpre-
judiced onlooker. For, instead of conciliating the hen
portion of the all-wool section—sitting out dull
leas, entering body and soul into the servant-
question, and never so much as fluttering the
eleventh part of an eyelash in the old man’s direction—
she commences on the men —to woo them to her “ ‘ouse ’
and win their suffrages as a necessary preliminary ! Her
favourite mode—usual with all vulgarities out of whom
the savage is only half exorcised—is to shower gifts on the
desired guest, and the amount of domestic trouble and
connubial strife those gifts of her’s have given rise to
would move a divorce lawyer to tears. To one man, at
his office, she sent a “boudoir” of herself in a silver
frame, and somebody—good old somebody—told his wife,
of course, and—well—he W'as seen to purchase a new'
dinner-set in town next day. To another she sent a
dandy pen-w’iper for office use, and when his lawful pen-
wiper-maker looked in and saw 7 it, she emitted a shrill
noise and fainted into the coal-scuttle and came to, and
went off, and moaned, and sobbed, and inquired how he
SCULLER McLEAN.
could treat her so? and begged him to he happy with the
creature when she was with mamma. Now, however,
society in that Australian city has grasped the situation,
and when hubby receives a mysterious gift in a sprawling-
feminine fist it. comprehends that it is only another over-
lure from Mrs. Blank, who, needless to say, poor woman,
is as far from the social fold as ever.
The “Caste ” matinee at Sydney Criterion on 20th ult.
in aid of the “Zingari grandstand fund,” attracted the
usual matinee crush of tabbies, gotten up mostly in sum-
mer fabrics and floral hats, while here and there one ob-
served a woman in last winter’s tailor-built gown with a
stuffed parrot in her bonnet. By-the-bye, the Zingari
secretary, who had all the burden and heat of the book S’g-
arrangements on his massive shoulders, will not again be
in a hurry to undertake such a task. Everybody fought
valiantly for best places, and one large local legal
dignitary actually demanded his money back because he
was too ultimate to get front seats. The performance
went excellently.
The Sydney University Union is becoming quite a light
and airy aggregate, and its meetings are now almost
society events since “ increasing interest is being evinced
in it by the Chancellor and by the ladies.” To deserve
this interest the Union intends holding Shakespearian
evenings—evenings devoted to essay-readings and interest-
ing argument, and other classical forms of amusement—
when maids and matrons in V-shaped corsages will pose
in front seats and try to look as if they liked it as Pro-
fessor X goes on to tweuty-fifthly. And, speaking of the
’Varsity, Commemoration Day, for some unheard-of
reason (because of Gov. Carington s untimely junketting
to Gundagai, I was told) has been postponed from Satur-
day, 29th ult, to Monday, 14th inst., an alteration which
the grads., male and “lady,” who are mostly engaged in
scholastic and other pursuits on that day, resent even to
the extent of “ writing to the papers.”
Wc are in for a mild form of la grippe. The dailies
have miles of scientiftos from disinterested medical men
explaining in six-syllabled language a one-syllable com-
plaint, and enforcing the fact that medical advice is un-
necessary “ when you are sure to have” a trouble, the
symptoms of which are as muddled up as possible. Care-
fully do we wrap ourselves up at eve lest “it” should
strike us down in tire midst of our Easter frolics, and
even if “it ” he only a kind of glorified edition of the old
watery influenza, still one doesn’t want to carry a red
nose and streaming eyes and a voice like a rustj nnge
into the halls of dazzling light or punctuate a dreamy
waltz with a disastrous a-ti-shu;
La Grippe.
Far from the ball-room’s glare they met,
Nor kissed, nor clasped, with sweet ado,
For her blue eyes with tears were wet,
And his brown-bilious orbs were, too.
And after both had wiped away
The deluge neither heart could wish,
They had but one remark to say,
And that sweet nothing was “ a-a-tish !
Miss Florence Menk-Meyer, the pianiste and composer,
will arrive in Sydney on 3rd inst., when she will give
a taste of her quality in six pianoforte-recitals. Adhering
to the order of her European programme, each evening
will be devoted to the thrills of one of the great masters
in the order of Liszt, Chopin, Beethoven, Bach, Mozar ,
and Mendelssohn. Miss Menk-Meyer has apparently no
intention of coining money in Sydney.
Although the S.M. Herald’s Social “ Home” summary
for the last fortnight consisted wholly of the dreary state-
ment that “ Lord Carington had gone to Gundagai,
Eastertime will see an unusually giddy whirl beside the
Beautiful Harbour. But the frolics are billed so franti-
cally on top of one another that pleasure will become a
hardship as usual. For instance, the Mayoress’ hah
occurs on 10th, while the vice-regal reception and the
stilly Union Club shavoo happens on 11th inst. And
races - held in the bright relentless daylight-show up the
lacklustre eye and boiled-pork cheek of dissipation. If
the A.J.C. committee were humitarians they would hold
their Autumn meet by electric-light and so give the poor
butterflies who must dance all night and prance all day
just a ghost of a chance. By-the-by, Baronet Clarke,
who cometh up as a daisy for the Sydney Easter hyginx,
has engaged twenty rooms at the fashionable Hotel
Metropole. Despite which your Sappho does not presume
that the Bart, now drinks ginger-beer.
A decidedly mufti crowd graced the second performance
of “The Sultan of Mocha” at Sydney Criterion. Mrs.
Bracy (Clara Thompson) shone in the front row in tomato
velvet and black lace and chaperoned a cocoanut-hued
damsel—one of tlie Fisk singers, I was told, in yellow
satin and rosebuds over a bust that may have been
stuffed with love-letters. Carrie Swain in elect vie-blue
brocade, with Shakespearian puffs and long sleeves, white
gloves, cream satin opera cloak edged with feathers, white
plume fan and diamond tiara, bangles and brooches,
adorned a. d.c. box jointly with hubby Gardiner in gig-
lamps and a diamond stud. By-the-bye, Carrie is
the only Thespienne in town who fixes her hair up
smoothly and decently in public!. The “ Sultan ”
is a pretty, see-able, rather blushable shavoo in
which tire gowns show sad evidence of the wear-aud-
tear of the long runs in other cities, and the music isn't a
patch on “ Dorothy.” But the colourings and groupings
are soothing, and 1 never saw Flora Graupner look better
than she does in the sea-green silk and sequins of the
second act, forming a pleasing contrast to Lilian Tree’s
rather barbarous get-up of vivid heliotrope.
1 am told that at the last meeting of the Melbourne
Women’s Club, the “Austral Salon,” three papers were
read- on English, American, and Australian women,
whereupon the Club’s Irish member rose to ask why in
those three papers no mention was made of Irish women,
begorra ? No one smiled at the bull, but it was a beauty.
“We are ruined by Chinese cheap labour.” Likewise,
the impecunious English nobleman game appears to be
about played out in a southern city where an heiress
moving in the highest Toorak circles has loved not wisely
but 100 well a Mongolian gardener employed on one of
the old man’s stations.
What the affectionate and large-hearted women of
Melbourne will do should cold-hearted directors go on
shutting up those quiet, easy and accessible coffee-houses,
is hard to say.
Yours affectionately,
SAPHHO SMITH.
The story goes that an enterprising Aus-
tralian paper, which has often resorted to the
ruse of changing—occasionally without regard
to grammar —the titles of sensational novels and
reprinting them (without consulting the authors or
original publishers thereof) in its unhallowed
columns, has been served with an injunction in
regard to the alleged pirating of its most recent
“ powerful story ” by an English firm which
claims to own the copyright of the tale in question.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Theatre Royal “ The Silver Falls.”
Her Majesty's “Now-a-days. „
Criterion “The Sultan of Mocha.
Cyclorama Battle of Gettysburg.
Opera House Boston Ideal Co.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
New Bijou -‘Money.’’
Princess’s J. L. Toole.
Opera House “Paul Jones.
Theatre Royal Charles Warner Company.
Alexandra “ Robbery Under Arms,
Town Hall Rev. Chas. Clarks lectin ea
The Guety Harry Packards
St. George's Hall Cogill Bros. Company.
At the Palace Museum “ Johnnie ” Solo-
mon is giving daily exhibitions of “cabinet”
business and legerdemain. The coffee-coloured
Young Tin (thus is Jun-Gun pronounced) an
aboriginal albino who facially strongly resembles
Parkes, and who would pass for him in a fog
were his hair and beard white, shows Sydney folks
how to light a fire without matches or flint and
steel. By the way, Texas Jack will give an ex-
hibition of rough-riding and lasooing on Saturday
afternoon on a vacant plot in Castlereagh-street.
** * *
A visit to the George-street Museum to
interview “the white blackfellow” aforesaid,
resulted in unmitigated satisfaction. We
were tired of the lost explorer Leichhardt
and his many relics, and when Mr. Macphie
assured us that Jun-Gun _had_ not the
slightest sign of white blood in his composi-
tion, it was with a feeling of intense relief that we
mounted the many stairs leading to the abode of
the aboriginal chieftain. Jun-Gun is a tawny
native, a true blackfellow in all but the colour ol
his skin, and that is a first-rate bronze, warranted
to wash. He cannot speak English, unfortunately,
but from our knowledge of the aboriginal tongue,
we gleaned from him that “budgeree you” meant
that his mother was an ardent admirer of
“ Murmurs of the Stream,” and that his visit to
X.S. Wales was caused by a wash to se p the
author of the book. As soon as this burning desire
is satisfied, Jun-Gun intends retiring to his native
wilds in Western Australia.
m* & *
A crazy-quilt programme was submitted at the
Royal Standard Theatre on Monday night last,
Srofessedly for the benefit of the Miln Dramatic
0., but, judging from the miserable attendance,
they will not be enriched worth a nickel. “ Ruth’s
Romance, ’ by Fred N. Broughton, opened the
proceedings, and Miss Kate Douglas and Messrs.
Holman and Montgomery waded through a pro-
lixity of dialogue, the fruits of which, from time
to time, evoked an occasianal chuckle irom the
denizens of the pit. After this lever do ridcau, an
olio followed, into which “Jimmy” Rainford
took a header with success. The 4th Act ol
“Richelieu” came next, but nothing remarkable
occurred save the rivalry between Miln and -Mont
gotnery as to which of them could extract “deep
sepulchral notes ’ from the viscera better than the
other. More olio succeeded this lugubriousness,
and the lot was tailed off with an Irish farce.
Frank Smith, it is said, will revive that weather-
beaten hotch-potch “Fun on the Bristol at this
house next week.
-;ic- * * -St
On the curtain being raised on the “ Sultan
of Mocha,” at Sydney Criterion, it wars evident
that everyone was in good health and spirits, and
that most of the chorus had got their stockings
well filled at Christmas-time. The music of the
“ Sultan ” is tuneful and gay, occasionally re-
miniscent of “Dorothy ” ; it also reminds you a!
intervals of those who were known to fame ere
Sullivan and CelHer knew how many notes go to
a bar. Much cannot be said for the libretto ; as a
rule, it is of the music-hall sketch type—simply
vocal clothes-lines strung out merely to sustain
a sequence of melodies j and the plot is as ancient
and feeble as anything in written history. Lilian
Tree has returned in good vocal form, greatly im-
proved as an actress, and with a very much better
idea of facial “make-up.” She, very wisely, dors
not let herself go so unreservedly as of yore, but
has contracted a habit of playing almost en-
tirely to the audience. Her best numbers, as
Dolly, are perhaps the “Letter ” and “ Slumber
songs, and she received numerous encores. Flora
Graupner, not so girly as of yore, and whose looks
are cruelly maligned in a contemporary, plays
Lucy, and has two very good ballads to which she
does justice, but is not otherwise overburdened
with business. Henry Bracy, whose beauty is
discounted by his' being burdened by the un
romantic name of Peter, sings all his ballads
tunefully, and is bright and lively all the time.
His e.utrass-combat with Sneak catches the gallery,
and his best numbers are the “ Barcarole " and the
“Yawning Song.” As for John Forde, who
plays Sneak, he has all the fat and fun to
himself, though some of Ids gags have an
ancient and Smell-bournian odour. He is as
nasal as ever, and once or twice nearly put the
orchestra out, but his “I love the ocean” song
was in every way a hit. Mr. Stevens makes us
tired. He fortunately has a small part, as there
is not enough of him for a big one, but small as
it is William of London is lost in it. Frances
Trigge is to be commended for the self-abnegation
that prompts her to disfigure her? elf. The orches-
tra, headed by Herr Harrison, has good material
to deal with, and does good work. The scenery is
fair to middling ; the dresses as a rule satisfactory,
and the “ Sultan ” likely to catcli on. Wo nearly
forgot Knight Aston, who plays and sings as the
Sultan vigorously, and does his best to make a
very thankless part “hum.”
* * Hi *
“The Silver Falls,” sis played at Sydney
Royal, like most modern melodramas, is a thing of
threadbare situations, of hackneyed and stilted
dialogue, so hackneyed that the regular theatre-
goer can almost without fail predict the sentiment
and in some cases the wording of each line, through
the cue given by its predecessor. It is fairly-well
staged, and the scene on which the curtain rises is
remarkably pretty, but in the last act it is so palp
ably apparent that what you are invited to
imagine rocks are only painted tarpaulins-
that the real water of the Silver Falls, as an
effect, is simply thrown away by the gallon. Mr.
Bucksaw, we should say Bucklaw, who plays Erie,
attired early in the proceedings in the cast-ott
suit of an ice-cream merchant, becomes, on
acquaintance, irritatingly mechanical and monoto-
nously un impassioned. Sometimes you may
imagine he is alive, but it is currently sup-
posed that he goes by clock-work. J- H*
Clyndes, one of the numerous villains, plays
“ Mar-coos ” with some power, but his own indi-
viduality is too strong for him ho can seldom get
away from Clvndos, and he never for a moment
moves, looks, or speaks like a foreigner. As Jack
Slingsby, James Stevenson was to us as annoying
as toothache at midnight, and even less funny


is not a photograph, nor a photo, a ghost—but a good photo, is a
true reflection of the original. For high-art photos, go to the
London Palace of Art, 10 Park-street, Sydney. Country photographers’ work from developement
to completion executed at lowest prices. Bromides a speciality, Staff of artists kept for working up.
A GHOST
Two small boys set a house on lire at
Brunswick (Vie.) the other night, in order to
secure the customary five shillings for ringing the
firebell. The Australian boy never lacks enterprise.
A BOON TO HUMANITY.
’Tis food for young and food for old,
It gives new life and vital power,
There’s nothing in the market sold
Like Pemell’s patent Snow-white Fw»utn
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
than a sick horse in a sandy desert. There were
several other male calamities, of which William
Calvert was chief. Edith Blande, as a female
adventuress, had a very Broughy appearance iu
repose. She played with such tremendous vigour
that we occasionally wished that she would not
only moderate her transports but the length of her
strides. Clara Cowper, as Primrose —a much
smaller part—was subdued and effective; and
Polly Emery’s Norah had a brogue of much rich-
ness and captivating uncertainty, yet she was
taking. “The Silver Falls” is, possibly, not
destined to cause a great fall of silver into the
managerial strong-box. Yet will probably wholly
fill the otherwise aching void antedating the
arrival of “Mrs. Gown-trotter.”
-K lii -;K-
-“ My Jack,” after a very successful six
weeks run, was withdrawn on Thursday evening
from the boards of Sydney Her Majesty’s. On
Good Friday night Signor Hazon’s 5(5 instrumen-
talists, reinforced by Miss Frances Saville, Mrs.
Yanderveer Green and Messrs. Hallewell and
Walshe, will give “a grand vocal and orchestral
concert.” On Saturday William Rignold makes
his first Australian appearance in “ Now-a-days.”
*‘K*
At the Cyclorama “the milingtary,” when
attired iu uniform, will be admitted during the
Easter holidays at half-price.
At Bondi Aquarium the change in the
weather has caused business to improve, and
everything is now in good order for the reception
of visitors.
Hi # # iif
The Boston Ideal Co., headed by Frank
Clark and engineered by Charles MacMahon, one
of the strongest variety combinations that ever
visited Australia, having just concluded a most
successful six weeks’ season in Melbourne, open at
.Sydney Opera House on Saturday night.
* * *• *
Taken in its entirety, regarded as a whole,
considered altogether, and judged in the lump,
“ Paul Jones ” is perhaps the best performance of
comic opera ever submitted to an Australian
audience. The extraneous aid of that young
stonemason, whom she opportunely summoned for
hovering round her private life and peeping
through the sanctity of her father’s roof, was not
needed to give Miss Nellie Stewart a great com-
mencement, at Melbourne Opera House. Quite a
superfluous stroke of genius was the adoring
stonemason, as it turns out. “ Paul Jones ” has
no remarkable strength, or weakness, either in
music or dialogue, nor is the plot free from
symptoms of insanity. An incidental “tom-
tom” passage, introducing a couple of sham
savages, is a barefaced theft from ‘ ‘ Mikado, ” while
the feathered creatures themselves are reminiscent
of “ Princess Toto.” But “Paul Jones” has a
freshness of its own, nevertheless, and the
casting, mounting, and general setting -up
combine to produce a sense of harmoniousness
which is both rich and rareful. That last word
lias been designed and invented in a moment of
inspiration. The fat is fairly distributed among
several characters, of which the prima-donna’s is
hardly the best. It requires a Nellie Stewart to
make some of the music of the part “ go,” and if
she were not a sweet show in her individual self
the aforesaid harmoniousness might not be so ap
parent. The combination of that established god-
dess with Madame Burton is, however, a para-
lysing success. Their duets remind one of the
nightingale singing to an organ accompaniment,
and their personal charms are like hearts and
homes —making each the other’s treasure once
divided moving all (old song). Madame Burton’s
voice has already spoken for itself in oratorio, and
her appearance in tights turns ought to be
slow, stately and superb —a most effective
contrast to the sylph-like Miss Ellen. The
new lady bears herself like a buccaneer,
in fact, she is a very Trebelli-Bettiui of a con-
tralto boy. Snazelle’s low-comedy comes as a
revelation to audiences who have been overdosed
with the hard, dry, obtrusive style of funny man,
and his success is the feature of the show. There
is a quick finish about his fooling, to which George
beitch plays au excellent second-fiddle, that seems
to have knocked even the gallery-boys, to whom
this real artist seldom, or never, plays. Likewise
first-class is John Gourlay in a small part, which
might have been specially written for him. Henry
llodson is all there until fate compels him to join
iu a chortle, and Miss Ida Osborne is there
jo sing if required, which she unfortunately
isn’t. The winsome Aggie Kelton has lost her
voice for the present, so the most taking
number in the opera is as good as lost,
iu consequence. But the chorus (who should be
better than Miss .S. at picking the divinities that
stand around ?) is sweet and lovely, and all else is
free from fault, except the conducting. Mr.
Alfred Plumpton, chaffed by the “gods” on the
first night, doesn’t seem to hold his enlarged band
in the hollow of his baton. “Paul Jones” will
boom even iu the teeth of Toole and Brough and
Boueicanlt, which is saying a lot.
•* *- * *-
“ A Man’s Shadow ” is rumbling along at
the Royal to very indifferent biz. The city can’t
stand this second lot of blood and agony ou top of
“La Tosca,” and so the usually overflowing War-
ner has dried up to an extent which marvellously
impi’oves his performance of the “dual role.” Put
a chill on Warner’s fervour and he becomes an
impressive actor at once. Miss Maud Williamson
is also making more admirers in this gruesome
affair, and the critics who give one line to Miss
Williamson, at the one house, and half a column
to Brown-Potter at the other, would look uncom-
mon idiots if the actresses were compelled to .ex-
change characters for one night only. “ A Man’s
.Shadow ” will be very sick by Saturday if it isn’t
stone-dead, but no new bill was announced at time
of writing.
** * m
To-night (Thursday) sees the last of “ La
Tosca ” at the Princess’, where the beauteous
Mrs. Brown P. will talk through her teeth no
more until she has shown her costumes in Sydney
and other places. On Saturday the Toole com-
pany make a start. Toole is to appear iu two
pieces every night, and fresh pieces every week.
The first announcement ran—“Toole as (Jhawles,
Toole as Spriggins ” —all other particulars of the
evening’s entertainment being left to the imagina-
tion. While the dress-circle and reserved stalls
have been boomed up to seven and sixpence, at the
Princess’s, it appears that Brough and Boueicanlt
will open the Bijou at the old rates. Their re-
appearance in “Money ” will rub a large quantity
•>f gilt off Toole’s first night, and the forthcoming
struggle between the five theatres and several
halls promises to beat anything seen in Melbourne
for two or -three years past.
■' • -• p *• *. ,
Miss Lily Dampier’s illness lias not visibly
Improved the chances of “ Robbery Under Arms ’’
running for another nine years. .Sister Rose seems
a nice blushful little woman, but it is hard to
understand that she has had any previous ex-
perience on the stage. Her shortcomings add con-
siderable incoherency to this wild bush narrative,
and although it gets there all the same, the
reason for its arrival at the vague destination afore-
said is decidedly mixed at times. Oogills are
doing all right at St. George’s Hall, the Mites
draw money to the Waxworks, and the Cyclorama
is just squeezing another 40 per cent, dividend out
of Wellington and Boneyparty.
* if- * *
Harry Rickards is another grand revival
for Saturday next. He opens at the Gaiety iu
the Bijou-arcade, so while B. and B. boom, as
they are sure to, it is tolerably certain that the
only ’Arry will not be left. He has always con-
trived to boom on his own account before, any-
way.
** * &
Also next Saturday, and during Easter
Week, the Rev. Charles Clark will renew memories
of bygone days at Melbourne Town Hall. His
reputation as the only lecturer who has made a
great name and a poetic pile in Australia- is
already established and with pilot Sxnythe back
at the helm, Mr, Clark is in a fair way to do it
again, worse than before. The opening lecture, is
on “ The Tower of London,” a place sacred to a
bloated and beheaded aristocracy, whose ghosts
and blood-stains are on view at a shilling.
-Jf
The fact that the man brought up for
following Miss Nellie Stewart about was only
“half-demented” must be very galling to Miss
Nellie Stewart. Formerly, her numerous admirers
became wholly demented.
** * *
The first performance of “Paul Jones”
was advertised to be by “command” of Lord
"rill.
fewa' -1 S
5l ) acl°w
tv a /
/yo
ft* 3.
/Yo^
Afo J"
/V" 6
*'l
?
1.-Beattie sees her, she must be mine. 2.—He helps her out of her carriage. 3.—Hence-
forth he is her shadow. 4.—Adoration in the street. 5.—He sits near her in the train.
6.-She tells Pa, who exclaims, “What an ad. for ‘Paul Jones!”’ 7.—Beattie “run in.”
8.-Nellie will not prosecute. The love of an honest man is a beautiful thing.
Hopetoun, which was equivalent to stating that
the little Excellency had ordered Nellie Stewart
to start in business. It is hard to see the drift of
this managerial grovel in connection with a real,
live show of the kind that snoboeracy most affects.
“Vice-regal patronage ” can do nothing to assist
first-class oornic'opera at any time, and the finan-
cial policy of inviting a Gov. to send off Nellie
Stewart seems to be unsound. Just when the dress-
circle could be filled twice over with hard cash they
dedicate a considerable portion of the most coveted
space to a dead-head picnic. Surely there are
times when the vice-regal person may have his
abuses, even though his regretable uses be ad-
mitted. If Brough and Boueicanlt are well advised
they will set apart one of the side-boxes for Hope-
toun, at the new Bijou, and surmount the gilded
sanctuary with a kangaroo rampant for coat-of-
arms. Then Toorak will hire the adjacent and
opposite boxes, from which they can sniff or glare
at vice-royalty, leaving the dress-circle to fill by
virtue of its ancient, absurd reputation and bring-
ing reserved stalls into violent fashion.
Melbourne stage annals do not present
four such concurrent financial successes as “A
Man’s Shadow,” nl tin; Royal ; “Tosca,” at the
Princess's ; “ Rani .Jones,” at the Opera House;
and “Robbery Under Anns,” at the Alexandra.
Robert Beattie has written to Melbourne
He kali) denying that his frequent proximity to
Nellie Stewart betokened any particular regard
for that lady. As for clmrohgoing with her he is
sure Nellie “has too much sense to be seen iu a
church.” Ahem ! That either means very little,
or shows that Mr. Beattie knows a tiling or two.
*- * it- it-
At the Adelaide Royal, Grattan Riggs
finishes a very successful season with “ Shin
Fane.” “The Irish Detective” and “The
Shaughrauu,” notwithstanding their age, roused
a deal of enthusiasm, and although Grattan was
as good as ever, he had a very uneven lot to sup-
port him. Bland Holt opens at Easter in “ The
Union Jack,” and ought to have a good time of
it. The Cogill Brothers, with Slade Murnjy, the
Bonbair Brothers, &c., start soon at Garner’s
Theatre, and are sure to do well.
At Poverty Point.
.Talking of Charley Forrest, the old-time Victorian
actor, reminds us that another Forrest was once arrested
for a robbery on the goldfields while actually playing
Jonathan Wild iu “Jack Sheppard.” The police came
behind the scenes and “ lumbered ” him. “Say, can’t I
finish my part?” “No,” replied the myrmidons.' Charley
Forrest’s wife was Emily Glyndon, a well-known anil
esteemed actress.
The big gag in “Paul Jones”.is “ Ain’t it sick’nin’?”
Ain’t it brilliant?
George Sanger, the English circus man, has a tame lion
which rides horseback round the ring. Sanger hopes, in
due course, to teach the monarch of the woods to stand
on his hind legs and wav e the Union Jack.
On the first night of “ Paul Jones,” young De Moleyns,
Hopetoun’s brother-in-law, occupied a box far removed
from the vice-regal enclosure, and right over the stage.
The seriousness of grand opera still hangs over Marian
Burton. It seemed extraordinary to Melbourne people
that anyone could submit to Nellie Stewart’s hug with
a funereal expression of countenance.
Bland Holt’s hat—oh, what character there is in that
white wideawake with its pinched-iu crown! Mrs. Bland
can’t make him mount a bell-topper, anyhow. The hat
reclines gracefully on the left ear, and overflows with
Salem Soudder, Flotsam and Jetsam, “ and everythingk.”
Can you imagine anything more melancholy than those
portraits of Marie Tempest as the Red Hussar, which
adorn the new music in the shops'? Not long ago we read
the full reports of how she had been seduced from her
happy home, by her manager, 11. J. Leslie, and of he* -
dreadful agony at being cast off by her husband. They
said she would never again appear on the stage, but such
an act was too good, with the boards corrupt and
debauched as they are. She was the original Dorothy,
Tint withdrew amid the divorce scandal.
Miss Myra Kemble, it is cabled, “has been received by
President Carnot.” Why not ?
The M‘Mahou Brothers will run the following show.s at
Easter:—At Sydney Opera House, Frank Clark’s Boston
Ideal Co. ; at Brisbane, Widow O’Brien on the Bristol; at
Sandhurst, George Darrell’s Company; at Newcastle,
Grattan Riggs ; and at Melbourne Opera House, Miss
Nellie Stewart’s Opera Company.
The “Congress of Wonders” Circus is working the
Sydney suburbs with great success.
Geo. 0. Miln will be tendered a matinee benefit on
Saturday at Sydney Royal by the firm, their company,
several members of his own company, Messrs. H. Jewett,
11. Bracy, and Morgan, Mons. Poussard, the Hugos, and
Miss Frances Saville.
Timothy Parker, a railway employe, played Macbeth,
assisted by Miln’s Company, at Sydney Standard on Tues-
day last. We wish Eddy had been there. Parker had a
requisition following of 800 “ pals.”
It is reported that Geo. 0. Miln will make a reappear-
ance in Melbourne ere leaving for America.
The Criterion Amateur Dramatic Company lately
played “ Pygmalion and Galatea” and “Box and Cox,” at
Sydney Gaiety. The company is made up of several ex-
cessively slim-limbed youths, whose cheeks were con-
tinually lit up with “school-boy blushes” or raddle in
blobs, and whose mouths were so unnaturally small that
they could with difficulty be heard beyond the footlights.
As these attenuated striplings were assisted by several
“specially-engaged” lady-amateur performers of some
ability, fair to look on and of plump and pleasing propor-
tions—the Misses Saunders and Harvard, to wit—the
many double-thonged good things in “ Pygmalion ” had a
greater zest for a goodly “complimentary-ticket” col-
lected audience who fairly howled when Leucippe chucked
down a stuffed wombat by way of a fawn.
“Our Boys ”is running again at London Criterion. It
originally ran four years and three months, and never to
less than a £lOO house.
D’Orsay Ogden, now convalescent, left Auckland by the
Mariposa for ’Frisco. He intends to return with a novelty
of some kind.
The N.S.W. Agricultural Society’s grand exhibition wi l
be opened officially by Lord Carington at Moore Park on
Thursday, April 3, at noon.
We have received £1 12s. 7*1., the proceeds of an enter-
tainment given by the Bexley Amateur Dramatic Club
last September, in aid of the Glebe Colliery Disaster Fund,
through the hands of Mr. A. K. Gray, the club’s secre-
tary. This sum we hold pending a call from the Disaster
Fund’s treasurer.
The Picturesque Concerts run at the Sydney School of
Arts by the committee are increasing in popularity. The
tuneful Misses Tilly Salinger and Qlendemiing, the popular
baritone, Tommy Gilpin, Mons. de Willimoif, and Iho
talented young mimic, Frank Hawthorne, occasionally
assisted by others, give a tirst-class show, hut we might
suggest to the secretary that a little less lecture and a
little more picture would be an improvement.
We have received a long letter from a well-known actor
warning the “perfesh” against bogus and would-be
theatrical managers. We have already dealt with the
subject and.cave not to reiterate what has been already
said more briefly. We would only point out that the
bogps manager often has a good mate in the “cronk
lessee.”
St. Maur's Comedy Co. opened at the Wellington Opera
House to good business in “ The Candidate.”
“Paul Jones” will, it is pretty certain, be produced al
Sydney Royal on July 20th.
Maggie Knight, now in good health, opens in Adelaide
with Bland Holt at Easter.
Minnie Palmer has been playing “ My Brother’s Sister,”
a comedy-farce-operalic drama by Leonard Grover, at
London Crystal Palace.
Irene Vanbrugh, Toole’s leading lady, is a daughter of
the late Prebendary Barnes, a sister of Violet Vanbrugh,
and probably the youngest leading lady in the world.
It is reported that a well-known lady singer has privately
espoused a popular baritone, who is now teaching music
in Melbourne. For the sake of the general male public as
well as our own, we trust that this statement will meet an
immediate denial.
J. L. Rogers recently tendered a cabby 2s. Od. for an
eighteen-penny ride. The cabby demanded 4s. ; John
said, “All right, but I’ve dropped a sovereign in your
cab, wait till I get a light from the box-office.” When
John returned the cabby had slithered, fareless, and
sovereignless. It will be a cold day when “yours merrily”
gets left.
The Nellie Stewart Opera Company, placing “ Paul
Jones,” at Melbourne Opera House, under the manage-
ment of MacMahon Brothers, totalled £B4O during the first
three nights.
Albert Brennir, the tenor whose first Australian appear-
ances were in “ Olivette,” and “ Tambour Major,” died in
Melbourne on Sunday last. lie had long been ailing.
Rev. Charles Clark arrived in Melbourne in splendid
form last Friday. Although his first night will be also
Toole's, and the new Bijou will be opened at Ihe same
time, the Melbourne Town Hall will probably be none too
large for the crowd which will welcome him.
Agues Thomas, now iu London, the original Australian
Mrs. Ralston, in “Jim the Penman,” has purchased
“Wedded,” a play by Henry Hoyte, the Australian actor-
author.
Mr. Fred. Norton, lately lecturer for the Midgets, has
lately been receiving enthusiastic encores at Sydney
Alhambra on Sunday evenings for his recitation of Victor
J. Daley’s pathetic ballad, “ The Old Wife and the New,”
and the “ Banjo’s” humorous verses, “Our New Horse,”
both originally written for The Bulletin.
The Brough-Boucicault company at the end of one of
the most lengthy and successful seasons ever known in
Sydney received quite an ovation when the curtain fell
on the night of the last performance of “ Ours.” The
raising of the curtain revealed the company drawn up in
line before the footlights,'when Robert Brough in a pithy
short speech thanked the Sydney press and public for
past favours. Ho had the tremolo'stop on ere he con-
cluded and then the audience streamed out to the appro-
priate strains of “ Should auld acquaintance be forgot ? ”
The Marion Willis dramatic company are playing (he
Victorian small towns with varied fortune.
The Holloway-Howe company are playing at Ballarat.
The I an Tassells set fire to their balloon at Sandhurst.
G. P, Carey, suffering from “ synovitis,” a knee-cap
disease, is bathing at the Te Aroha hot-springs, N.Z.
Frank Cates, the original “Douglas Cattermole” iu
Australia, will re-assume the part at Sydney Gaiety in
the “ Private Secretary” at Easter.
The Darlinghurst Skating Rink will be re-opened as a.
rink this (Thursday) evening with a tremendous flourish
of trumpets.
Developments of the Federal Conference
The recent political assemblage in Melbourne will
mark a new era in the history of Australia. It is
cheerful to contemplate that forces are now at
work which instil into us the elevating and inspir-
ing picture of a great united Australia ; and if a
federal union for the promotion of interests com-
mon to us all will become an accomplished fact,
then the delegates of the various colonies, who so
calmly and earnestly discussed the great subject,
will be entitled to our sincere gratitude. One of
the chief obstacles to federation was always set
down to the discord in the policies of the divers
colonies. It resulted from the efforts of politicians
who confined their views within the borders of
their respective territories, and who thus rendered
approach to Australian unity more difficult. Now,
however, that the efforts of the leading statesmen
of this great continent, upon which Nature has
lavished her choicest gifts, are actively engaged in'
the possible formation of the long-coveted unity,
we are impressed with more hopeful views as to
the organisation of a federal union, which is now
a step nearer to its goal. The colonies bound to-
gether in one league of common defence will form
a power and take a, place amidst the nations of
the earth. Disunited they labour under manifold
grievances as is so aptly illustrated iu the ancient
fable, where the various parts pertaining to the
human constitution quarrelled, and failed to per-
form their assigned functions. They soon found
that without unity of purpose their existence was
endangered, for directly one organ of the human
system becomes disordered the whole frame labors
under the strain of bodily affliction. Mr. Harry
Conway, Member of the House of Assembly, re-
presenting Georgetown, also Grand Master,
Masonic Lodge, Tasmania (Irish Constitution),
under date Launceston, February 22, in proof of
the foregoing, furnishes us with the following de
tails ;—“ I have suffered from serious disorder of
the kidneys, combined with an affection of the
liver, for the past five years or so. There
were severe pains in the back and occasionally
aggravated attacks of lumbago. Ultimately jaun-
dice set in, causing more constitutional disturb-
ance. At this time Warner’s safe cure was very
favourably introduced to my notice, whereupon I
gave myself treatment with it, and after the use
of six bottles of the safe cure, taken in conjunction
with the safe pills, all pains had subsided, and
every disorder of the liver and kidneys was sub-
dued. ” Cases like the above could be quoted ad
infinitum, where the afflicted recovered through
the agency of this medicine when other means
signally failed ; in many instances a federal con-
ference of physicians having given up the patient
in despair. As an agent for federating disor-
ganised constitutions it has-no parallel.


WOLFE’S SCHNAPPS!
.£l2OO a
year given away m Cl Orders
Is superseding nil other spiiits.
“ The richest blood, sweetest breath, and ,faire. t
ekin in Dr. Soule’s American Hop Bitters.
Write for plans £lO Building sites, Perth,
Western Australia. Intercolonial .•
Company, Limited, 90 Bathurst street, > y<
A Haunt of the Jinkarras.
(Fearsome Story of Central Australia.)
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
In May, 1889, the dead body of a man was found on one
of the tributaries of the Finke River, in the extreme
North of South Australia. The body, by all appearances
had been lying there some months and was accidentally
discovered by explorers making a flymg survey with
camels. Amongst the few effects was a Lett s Diaiy con
tabling the following narration, which although in many
places almost illegible and much weather-stained, has
been since, with som; trouble, deciphered and tran-
scribed by the surveyor in charge of the party, ana toi
warded to The Bulletin for publication.
Transcribed from the Dead Man’s Diarv.
March 10, 1888.—Started out this morning with
Jackson, the only survivor of a party of three who
lost their horses on a dry stage when looking tor
country: he was found and cared for by the blacks,
and finally made his way into the line where 1
picked him up when out with a repairing-party.
Since then I got him a job on the station, and m
return he has told me about the ruby-held of
which we are now in search; and thanks to the late
thunder-storms we have as yet met with no
obstacles to our progress. I have great faith in
him but he being a man without any education
and naturally taciturn, is not very lively company,
and I find myself thrown on to the resource ot a
diary for amusement. . , ..
March 17.— Seven days since we left Charlotte
Waters, and we are now approaching the country
familiar to Jackson durum his sojourn with the
natives two years ago. He is confident that we
shall gain the gorge in the M Donnell Kanges
to-morrow, early.
March 18. —Amongst the ranges, plenty of water,
and Jackson has recognised several peaks m the
near neighbourhood of the gorge, where he saw the
rubies
March 19.—Camped in Ruby Gorge, as I have
named this pass, for we have come straight to the
place and found the rubies without any hindrance
at all. I have about twenty magnificent stones
and hundreds of small ones ; one of the stones in
particular is almost living fire, and must be of
great value. Jackson has no idea of the value ot
the find, except that it may be worth a few
pounds, with which he wall be quite satisfied. As
there is good feed and water, and we have plenty
of rations, will camp here for a day or two ana
spell the horses before returning. ,
March 20.—Been examining some caves in the
ranges. One of them seems to penetrate a great
distance—will go to-morrow with Jackson and
take candles and examine it. ,
March 25.—Had a terrible experience the las
four days. Why on earth did 1 not go back at
once witli the rubies ? Now I may never get back.
Jackson and I started to explore this cave early ui
the morning. We found nothing extraordinary
about it for some time. As usual, there were
numbers of bats, and here and there there were
marks of tire on the rocks, as though the natives
had camped there at times. After some searching
about, Jackson discovered a passage which we
followed down a steep incline for a long distance.
As we got on we encountered a strong draught ot
air and had to be very careful of our candles.
Suddenly the passage opened out and we found
ourselves in a low chamber in which we could not
stand upright. I looked hastily around, and saw
a dark figure like a large monkey suddenly spring
from a rock and disappear with what sounded like
a splash. “ What on earth was that ? I said to
Jackson. “ A jinkarra,” he replied, m his slow,
stolid way. “I heard about them from the
blacks; they live underground.” “What are
they''” I asked. “I couldn’t make out, he re-
plied; “the blacks talked about jmkarras, and
made signs that they were underground, so i sup-
pose that was one.’ ,
We went over to the place where I had seen the
figure and, as the air was now comparatively still
and fresh, our candles burnt well and we could
see plainly. The splash was no illusion, for an
underground stream of some size ran through the
chamber, and on looking closer, in the sand on the
Hoor of the cavern, were tracks like a human toot.
We sat down and had something to eat. ihe
water was beautifully fresh and icily cold, and I
tried to obtain from Jackson all he knew about
the jinkarras. It was very little beyond what he
had already told me. The natives spoke of them
as something, animals or men, he could not make
out which, living in the ranges underground, I hey
used to frighten the children by crying out jin-
karra !” to them at night.
The stream that flowed through the cavern was
very sluggish and apparently not deep, as 1 could
see the white sand at a distance under the rays of
the candle ; it disappeared under a rocky arch
about two feet above its surface. Strange to say,
when near this arch I could smell a peculiar pun-
gent smell like something burning, and this odour
appeared to come through the arch. I drew .Jack-
son’s attention to it and proposed wading down
the channel of the stream if not too deep, but he
suggested going back to camp first and getting
more rations, which, being very reasonable, 1
agreed to. ... . . > • ,
It took us too long to get back to camp to think
of starting that day, but next morning we got
away early and were soon beside the subterranean
stream. The water was bitterly cold but not
very deep, and we had provided ourselves with
stout saplings as poles and had our revolvers and
some rations strapped on our shoulders. It was
an awful wade through the chill water, our hearts
nearly touching the slimy top of the arch, our
candles throwing a faint, flickering gleam on the
surface of the stream ; fortunately the bottom was
splendid—hard, smooth sand —and after wading
for about 20 minutes we suddenly emerged into
another cavern, but its extent we could not dis-
cern at first for our attention was taken up with
other matters. .
The air was laden with pungent smoke, the
place illuminated with a score of smouldering fires,
and tenanted by a crowd of the most hideous
beings I ever saw. They espied us m an instant,
and flew wildly about, jabbering frantically, until
we were nearly deafened. Recovering ourselves
we waded out of the water, and tried to approach
some of these creatures, but they hid away in the
darker corners, and we couldn’t lay handson any
of them. As well as we could make out in the
murky light they were human beings, but savages
of the most degraded type, far below the ordi-
nary Australian blackfellow. I hey had long
arms, shaggy heads of hair, small twinkling eyes,
and were very low of stature. They kept up a
confused jabber, half whistling, half chattering,
and were utterly without clothes, paint, or any
ornaments. I approached one of th ®“' hr f e f’J“ l< *
found it to consist of a kind of peat or turf, some
small tpnes of vermin were lying around, and a
rude chib or too. While gazing at these things 1
suddenly heard a piercing shriek, and, looking up,
found that Jackson, by a sudden spring, had suc-
ceeded in capturing one of these creatures, who
was struggling and uttering terrible yells. went
to his assistance, and together we succeeded in
holding him still while we examined him by the
light of our candles. The others, meanwhile,
dropped their clamour and watched us curiously.
Never did I see such a repulsive wretcli as oui
prisoner. Apparently he was a young man
about two or three and twenty, only five feet high
at the outside, lean, with thin legs and long aims.
He was trembling all over, and the perspiration
dripped from him. He had scarcely any fore-
head, and a shaggy mass of hair crowned his head,
and grew a long way down his spine. His eyes
were small, red and bloodshot ; I have often
experienced the strong odour emitted by the
ordinary blackfellow when heated or excited, but
never did I smell anything so offensive as the rank
smell emanating from this creature. Sudden y
Jackson exclaimed: Look. look, hes got a
tail !” I looked and nearly relaxed my grasp of
the brute in surprise. There was no doubt about
it, this strange being had about three inches of a
“wLet’B catch another,” I said to Jackson after
the first emotion of surprise had passed. We
looked around after putting our caudles upright
in the sand. “There’s one in that corner
muttered Jackson to me, and as soon as 1 spotted
the one he meant we released our prisoner and
made a simultaneous rush at the cowering form.
We were successful, and when we dragged our
captive to the light we found it to be a woman.
Our curiosity was soon satisfied—the tail was the
badge of the whole tribe, and we let our second
< a Mv first impulse was to go and rinse my hands
in the stream, for the contact had been repulsive
to me. Jackson did the same, saying as he did
so _“ Those fellows I lived with were bad enough,
but I never smelt anything like these brutes. _ i
pondered what I should do. I had a great desire
to take one of these singular beings back with me,
and I thought with pride of the reputation I
should gain as their discoverer, ihen I reflected
z£ e t
HUMANE METHOD OF GATHERING IVORY.
(RESPECTFULLY DEDICATED TO MESSRS. H. M. STANLEY AND EMIN PASHA.)
that T could always find them again, and it woul
be better to come back with a larger party after
safely disposing of the rubies and securing the
there’s no way out of this place,” I said to
Jackson. , ,
“ Think not ?” he replied.
“No” I said, “or these things would have
cleared’ out; they must know every nook and
Ll “Umph!” he said, as though satisfied; “shall
W I^vaTon 1 t°he point of saying yes, and had 1
done so all would have been well ; but, unfortu-
nately some motive of infernal curiosity prompted
nV to say—“No ! let us have a look round first.
Lighting another candle each so that.we had
plenty of light, we wandered round the cave,
wlTch was of considerable extent, the unclean
inhabitants flitting before us with -lihe cnes
Presently we had made a half circuit of the cave
and were approaching the stream, for we could
hear a rushing sound as though it plunged oyei a
f if This noise grow louder, and now I noticed
that all the natives had disappeared, and it struck
me that they had retreated through the passage
we had penetrated, which was now unguarded.
Suddenly Jackson, who was ahead, exclaimed that
there was a large opening. As he spoke lu.turnel
to enter it; T called out to him to be careful but
mv^voice'was lost in a cry of alarm as he slipped
stumbled, and with a shriek of horror disappeared
from my view. So sudden was the shock, and so
awful my surroundings, that I sank down uttei y
unnerved comprehending but one thing . that 1
was alone in this gruesome cavern inhabited y
Mimuov unnatural creations.
After a while I pulled myself together and began
lo look around. Holding my candle aloft I
crawled on my stomach to where my companion
disappeared. My hand touched a slippery
a£rs-Ud».» i «*»
rocks sloped abruptly downwards and were covered
with slime as though under water at times. ne
step on the treacherous surface and a man s doom
wag scaled-headlong into the unknown abyss be-
low be was bound to go, and this had been the
fate of the unhappy Jackson. As I lay trembling
on the edge of this fatal chasm listening for the
faintest sound from below, it struck me that 11•
noise of the rushing water was both bjmle and
nearer. 1 lay and listened,
about it-the waters were rising.
of deadly horror it flashed across me that it the
stream rose it would prevent my return as I could
not thread the subterranean passage under water.
Rising hastily I hurried M to the|«ipPJT end of
the cavern following the edge of the water. A
glance assured me I was a prisoner, the
was up to the top of the arch, an . ‘
much broader than when we entered, ihe rations
and candles we had left carelessly on the sand had
disappeared, covered by the rising water. I was
alone, with nothing but about a candle and a halt
between me and darkness and death.
I blew out the candle, threw myself on the
sand and thought. I brought all my courage to
bear not to let the prospect daunt me. * irst
the natives had evidently retreated before the
water rose too high, their fires were all out and a
dead silence reigned. I had the cavern to myself,
this was better than their horrid company. IN ext,
the rising was periodical, and evidently was the
cause of the slimy slippery, rock.which had
robbed me of my only, companion. I remembered
instances in the interior where lagoons rose and
fell at certain times without any visible cause
Then came the thought, for how long would the
overflow continue. I had fresh air and plenty of
water, I could live days ; probably the flood only
lasted twelve or twenty-four hours. But an awlui
fear seized on me. Could I maintain my reason
in this worse than Egyptian darkness
so thick, definite and overpowering that 1 cannot
describe it, truly a darkness that could be felt. I
had heard of men who could not stand twenty-four
hours in a dark cell, but had clamoured to be taken
out Supposing my reason deserted me and
during some delirious interlude the stream fell and
rose again. „ ,
These thoughts were too agonising. I rose and
paced a step or two on the sand. I made a resolu-
tion during that short walk. I had matches
fortunately, with a bushman’s instinct, I had put
~ box in niy pouch when we started to mvestiga
the cavern I had a candle and a-half and I had,
thank Heaven ! my watch. I would calculate four
hours as nearly as possible, and every four hour B
I would light my candle and enjoy the luxury of a
little light. I stuck to this, and by doing so left
that devilish pit with reason. It was sixty hours
before the stream fell, and what I suffered during
that time no tongue could tell, no brain imagine.
' That awful darkness was at times peopled by
forms that, for hideous horror, no nightmare
could surpass. Invisible, but still palpably pre-
sent, they surrounded and sought to drive me
down the chasm wherein my companion had
fallen The loathsome inhabitants of that cavern
came back in fancy and gibbered and whistled
around me. I could smell them, feel their sicken-
ing touch. If I slept I awoke from, perhaps, a
pleasant dream to the stern fact that I was alone
in darkness in the depth of the earth. When hist
I found that the water was receding was perhaps
the hardest time of all, for my anxiety to leave
the chamber tenanted by such phantoms was
overpowering. But I resisted. I held to my will
until I knew I could safely venture, and then
waded slowly and determinedly up the stream;
ui) the sloping passage, through the outer-cave
Snershi into thS light of dw-tlie bl.»ed
glorious light, with a wild shout of joy.
n I must have fainted ; when I came to myself I
was still at the mouth of the cave, but now it was
night, the bright, starlit, lonely, silent night of
the Australian desert. I felt no hunger nor fear
of the future ; one delicious sense of rest and re-
lief thrilled my whole being. 1 lay there watching
the dearly-loved Austral constellations in simple
Deaceful ecstasy. And then 1 slept, slept till the
sun aroused me, and I arose and took my way to
our deserted camp. A few crows arose and cawed
defiantly at me, and the leather straps bore the
marks (if a dingo’s teeth, otherwise the camp was
untouched. I lit a fire, cooked a meal ate and
rested once more. The reaction had set m after
the intense strain I had endured, and I felt my- (If
incapable of thinking or purposing anything.
This state lasted for four and twenty hours then
I awoke to the fact that I had to find the horses,
and make my way home alone—-for, alas, as i
bitterly thought, I was now, through my curiosity,
alone, and. worst of all, the cause of my com-
panion’s death. Had I come away when he pro-
posed, he would be alive, and I should have
escaped the awful experience I have endured.
I have written this down while it is fresh in my
memory ; to-morrow I start to look for the horses.
If I reach the telegraph-line safely I will come
back and follow up the discovery of this unknown
race, the connecting andhnig-ssaight-foihnk ,it
not, somebody else. may find this and foUow up
the clue. I base plotted out the course from
Charlotte Waters here by dead-mkomng
March 2fith ;No sign of the horses. 1 ho> ha\
evidently made back. I will make up a hgli
pack and follow them. If Xdo not overtake them
i may be able to get on to the line on foot.”
Enu of the Diahy.
Note.— I The surveyor, who is well-known in
South Australia, adds the following postscript
The unfortunate man was identified as an
operator on the overland line. He had been in
the service a long time, and was very much bked.
The facts about picking up Jackson when out with
a repairing party have also been verified. Ihe
dead man had obtained six months’ leave of ab-
sence, and it was supposed he had gone down to
Adelaide. The tradition of the jinkafras is com-
mon among the natives of the Macdohnell Range.
I have often heard it. No rubies or anything of
value were found on the body. I, of course, made
an attempt to get out, but was turned back by the
terrible drought then raging. As it is now broken,
I am off, and by the time this reaches you shall
perhaps be on the spot.
The Bathurst Daily Times has gone back
on the Single-tax, which may be attributable
either to its present incapacity to understand the
question, or to a threat of a not inconsideiable
reduction of its subscription-list. It bulged out
on the tax when Percy Meggy, who now tills the
secretarial chair (at the remuneration of nix and
pay your own postages) of the Single-tax League,
ran the sheet editorially. The proprietor did not
grasp the bearings of the editorial screed for some
time, and then probably it dawned upon him that
Gilmour or William Henry Suttor might stop his
paper if the game went on, and so a remonstrance
was levelled at the editorial head. Look here,
MacDougal,” quoth the Meggy, “you had a fowl-
house put up in your back-yard last year, and
this year the municipality assesses your property
at £lO more annual value in consequence, i nns
it fines you for improving your property ; while
your next neighbour, who keeps his land un-
improved, but the value of whose land is improved
by your expenditure, pays nothing more. JNow,
the Single-tax would go for him and leave you
alone ” Which reply wasn’t exactly to the point,
of course ; but it converted MacDougal [pro tern, to
the Single-tax. When, however, he learnt that
the Single-tax, while it would certainly leave the
fowl-house untouched, would confiscate the value
of the land on which it stood, the usual fate of ttie
reformer overcame the originator of the fowl-house
argument.
Dear Bulletin,— Your paragraph in re a Mr.
John Jones, recalls to my memory a few incidents of a
dozen or fifteen years hack, Jones is an uncommon
name neither is the “ Kernstian name of John at all a
rarity • but, judging from the fact that this particular
John Jones, of London, is circularising Australia for money
for a so-called philanthropic object, I imagine he is the
‘ ‘ Jones ”of my younger days. Jones was a small pca am-
bulator and bath-chair manufacturer in Bristol, hetaued
his occupation by preaching in the by-ways and other
spots where the erring might reasonably he expected to
locate themselves. He freely informed his associates
that he made a good thing out of .^"mristoiians
1 once found him in a cottage on the Cliffs (Bristolians
will remember this locality) I conclude he was not with-
out the means of gratifying his taste for earthly
pleasures “ Finding his sphere of labor too contracted,
he removed to London, and started what I believe has
grown into the London Samaritan Society, and no
doubt did pretty well. During the time that England
was excited by the now historical “ Bulgarian atrocities,
our friend was impressed with the idea that there was
money in it, and opened a subscription-list which drew
from the pockets of the faithful some £lBOO. Instead of
handing this sum to the Lord Mayor or Viscountess
Strangford, the general treasurers, J. J. says, No .IL go
myself with it,” so he straightway engaged a courier an 1
interpreter, and started away with the oof. After
spending some time abroad in relieving the suffering
peasants he returned to England. Some of his sub-
scribers proving rather curious as to what had been done
with the coin, and insisting on a balance-sheet, one was
prepared, by which it appeared that whilst the objects of
charity had received some of the money, the bulk of it
had been spent in the distribution. Jones got some
nasty knocks over this business, but attributed them to
persecution which he was ready to suffer for the Lord s
sake. —Glostkr.
“La Grippe”
The influenza, or, as the French and Russians
term it, “la grippe,” is here at last. It appeared
a week ago in New Zealand, spread to Tasmania,
and there are said to be cases in Sydney, ic is
spreading rapidly in Melbourne and suburbs, and
and won’t it have a picnic in Typhodia with its
surface drainage, fever beds, and Yarra smells, for
it extends by filth? Now is the time for the
doctors to be busy prescribing their pills and
squills, potions and poultices, balls and boluses,
their quinine, antepyrin, phenacetm and so on
La Grippe is a disease of debility, and only
attacks enervated and enfeebled constitutions, it
consists in relaxation of the mucous membrane
lining the nostrils, nasal fossa;, septum turbinated
bodies etc. ; causes considerable local inflam-
mation and physical disturbance, with sneezing
and thin watery discharge from the nose and eyes,
in some cases where the system is in a
of extreme weakness, the discharge is thick (
phlegm) owing to the debility of the affected parts,
the epithelial cells break away with the discharge
and this is very liable to lead to chronic nasa
catarrh, which will eventually, completely destroy
both smell and taste and hearing if neglected.
All the cough mixtures, all the an<) J'
all the opiates, all the soporifics, all the ex-
pectorants and the thousand and other cures
can do no good in this epidemical influenza. Ihe
treatment must be altero-tonic, it must be
and at the same time must be stimulating and
restorative. Now what medicine possesses these
combined? Th.,re is sue . a one, and
one only, and that is Clements’ lonic. Ihis
article has proved itself the greatest remedy for
all diseases of debility and. anaemia, it is utc
unnecessary for us to say a single word now in its
favor we have long known that the remedy would
make a name for itself, and now it is universal
nraised by all its grateful patrons, but w
digress, we are writing about “la grippe " ”
is now upon us ; it may be brave to r ak an attack
of it, but r-member the old Baying,
the better part of valour, so take ClemeM
Tonic in time, it will render your system
able to the attacks of this disease. > Prevention
is better than cure,” and Clements lonic
best preventive, for . ,
“ Thrice is he armed who hath his quarrel jus -.
But more so he who gets his blow in fust,
So we Just give this very latest tippe.
Take Clements’ Tonic and never have La Gr •
Full particulars and endorsements on app o
cation toF. M. Clements, Newtown, N.S.W-
at Melbourne, George, and George , a g,),
F. H. Faulding and Co. ; at Wellington ( • j
Kempthorne, Prosser and Co. ; at Hobart * n {
Launceston, L. Fairthorne and Sons, and
dealers everywhere.


iu
$
§0
ing
4/Celebrated
m
*
' - : 7
S# m/mpßESsiy
PORT I
ro
- M'A
IND
ijfUßOiilfe
.■&»*> eU»feVr. CTheeler^ I c;.k
*A4l^tlAU/
BUGGIES, BUCEBOARDS,
—AND -
VICTORIAS,
At MANUFACTURERS' PRICES.
Send for Catalogues and Prices to
THE F. B. WHEELER CO.,
265 Clarence Street. SYDNEY.
Personal Items.
N.S.W. has now two Registrars-General
pensioned off.
Sir Alfred Stephen is believed to be the
oldest barrister in the world.
The prophet Egeson, being 'down on his
luck, is being cordially jumped upon.
Rev. Robert Phelps, D.D., brother of
grand old Sam Phelps, died the other day.
A Melbourne compositor has set it up—
“ Brown-Porter.” She’s not a bit stout.
Edward Fitzgerald, who has just died,
aged 75, was the original founder of “ Oastlemaine,,
please.”
If Emin Pasha is to be believed, Saint
Gordon must have been “a nice cup of tea” to
live with.
Parkes met Henry George on the Mel-
bourne “Block.” They didn’t speak asGhey
passed by.
The most brilliant reformer in New York
is the comely Miss Dr. Kelly. She is styled “a
pacific anarchist.”
Stone-Juggins Benzon spends most of his
time in gaol weeping. Constant dropping will
wear away a stone.
“Rolf Boldrewood’s ” new novel, “The
Miner’s Right,” is announced in the English press
for early publication'.
Montgomerie, the deceased Melbourne
brewer, has left £73,550 behind him. 1 There’s
a lot of “ sugar” in beer.
Miss Mabel Scott married lately one Earl
Russell, took ill at the altar with pleurisy, and
went straight to sick-bed.
For the first time, for many centuries, the
Italian cardinals of the Sacred College are now in
a minority to the foreign ones.
George Eliot’s latest biographer says that
G.E. once wrote an article “ with fingers tremulous
from the boiling of currant-jelly.”
David Gaunson says that since he has been
out of the Victorian Assembly he has “become a
respectable member of the community.”
At the late London Burns Celebration, the
chairman unwittingly gave the toast of the evening
as “ the immortal memory of John Burns.”
A London paper denies the possibility of
a posthumous Cairns, and says that Herbert
Cairns can assume the title when he pleases.
Tennyson has been offered £lOOO for a
dozen eight-lined verse's for use on next season’s
Christmas cards. That is £lO Bs. 4d. per line.
Stanley went to Africa and found a—pub-
lisher. For “Darkest Africa,” in tvvo vols., he
receives £14,000 from Sampson, Low and Co.
March 27th was Baronet Clarke’s birthday.
But then he’s so disgustingly rich that he can
afford a birthday every week. And he has one,
too.
About the first thing Melbourne Stak-
daku’s reporter noticed in connection with Henry
George was the fact that he did not wear a watch-
chain.
Premier > Parkes said the other day to an
M.P. that he had never read anything by Robert
Louis Stevenson —“had never oven heard of the
inan, in fact.” ■
In “Australia Twice Traversed,” Ernest
Giles says that the natives in the Far North 1 “ eat
their aged ones and probably those who die from
natural causes also. ”
Peter Jackson admires London, but is
very much disappointed with the Tower of Lon-
don. Everything in the world is disappointing,
even Peter Jackson.
■ Sir Henry Wrenfordsley, the “journey-
man judge,” has at last found rest in the billet of
Chief Justice of Western Australia. He had to
go “ home ” to work the oracle.
A. Melbourne paper is responsible for the
statement that Willoughby Andrew was tried for
murder, at Birmingham, in England, for throwing
a woman out of aVyjndow into the street.
Old Dr. Knaggs, of Melbourne, is dead,
aged 91. He was a sound political Liberal when
Liberalism was unfashionable, and indeed one of
the few sincere loyal Liberals of M‘Cullochdom.
Apropos of the Yon Fiukelstein marriage,
it is interesting to recall the fact that little Melton
Prior intimated while he was in Australia that
the expansive prophetess was fairly gone on his
bald head.
Editor Ernest Parke has been very ill dur-
ing his incarceration. The British Home Secre-
tary will shortly be memorialised by the Society
of Journalists to make him a first-class misde-
meanant.
A great unknown, named Wheal, is ap-
pointed President of the Australian Natives’
Association. , Purveshadno chance after “bilk-
ing” the Conference, to enjoy a trip in Baronet
Clarke’s yafcht.
Henry George dbes all his correspondence
by type-writer. He now intends to write a text
book on political economy, dealing with every
principle in concise order. It will be wholly an
educational work.
Maurice Brodzky, editor and proprietor of
Melbourne Table Talk, claims linguistics as his
forte. He sayS he knows seven languages. We
don’t doubt it, but the list does not altogether
quite include Tennysonian English.
In “ Pi’oblems of Greater Britain" Dilke
states that The Australian workman occasionally
takes “ walking tours.” Walking'Jours? Looking-
for work, and humping his blankets. Who lias
been stuffing the Baronet ? B. R. Wise ?
“Jimmy ” Tyson was born at Cowpasture
(Camden), N.S.W., 11th April, 1823. He. will.
therefore, be 07 on 11th inst,, on which day he
will give a good spread to the inmates of all the
N.S.W. and Queensland benevolent-asylums.
To link the names of “ Miss Ellen Terry,
Mrs. Bernard-Beere, and Mrs. Brown-Potter,” as a
Melbourne idiot does in some sermon on the Stage,
ancient and modern, is much the same as uniting
Homer, Milton and Douglas Sladen in a trinity.
The British General known as Pitt-Rivers
was born a Lane-Fox, his eldest son is Pitt-Rivers,
the second is a Lane-Fox, and the third is Fox-
Pitt. Of course this extraordinary jumble has
been brought about by testators with property to
leave.
Little Jimmy Mirams has gathered his
Melbourne creditors together, and endeavoured to
explain his financial position. It’s not 18 months
since 'the Mirams tribe used to drive to the
tabernacle in a gorgeous procession “of barouches
and pairs.
Mathew Burnett, the fiery cold-water
man, has shut down and shipped for England.
He has been completely shattered in health in
consequence of • his untiring struggle with the
liquor-fiend. The accursed drink always ’ wins,
somehow.
Surely it cannot ho true that barrister
Lusk, who won a large State prize by writing in
competition a school-history of Australia for use
in N.S.W: public-schools, has been requested to
sing an indirect Foreign trade paean at the end of
this book ere he gets his money ?
Emile Zola, says a London paper, has the
face of an intelligent prize-fighter. His forehead
is high and broad, his eyes dark and deep-sunken
under heavy orbital arches, and his nose is some-
what flattened. 1 lis upper lip is long, over-hang-
ing, and almost'prehensile, obscuring altogether
the,lower ip, which is not without its lines of
delicacy.
Edison’s latest novelty is a talking clock,
which bawls “one!” “two!” “three !”&0., in-
stead of striking the hours. The alarm shouts
“ Get up !” “ Get up ! ” lustily. On further con-
sideration, Edison will, Thk Bulletin predicts,
make it say ; “A double brandy and a big soda —
quick! ’
Peter Laiug, a Scottish centenarian, was
recently banqueted on his hundredth birthday.
Someone who thought, however, that Peter was
mighty hungry for his years, looked up the
parish-register, and found that he was born in
1801. Mr. Laing will again centenniate eleven
years from date.
Mr. Clark Russell, in a recent story, in-
forms us “that his hero made a voyage to Mel-
bourne, Australia, in 1814.” This settles it. Wo
always believed that the Victorian village was
founded farther back than 1835. Some of those
Collins-street smells are too far gone to be 'of
such recent creation, and must have flourished for
at least a century.
Captain Horne, who was sergeant-at-arms
in the New Zealand Parliament a year or two ago
and who was so fortunate as to obtain -a little
while ago the governorship of Trial Bay (N.S.W.)
prisbn, is a very strong-running candidate for the
governorship of Darlinghurst gaol. What is the
matter with the officers at present in the service?
Arc they all frauds, or is Captain Horne a genius?
" The newly-published “Reminiscences of
Empress Eugenie, ” by Madame Carette, a lady-in-
waiting, are extremely good. Napoleon 111. first
saw Eugenie at the Paris Grand Opera, the piece
being “Guillaume Tell.” The Emperor wanted
to get her as his mistress—a course to which he
was urged by his dear friend, Elenry—but his
other friend, De Morny, was all in favour of
marriage. Napoleon married her a month after
he first saw her. She was then 28 years old, and
bewilderingly fascinating with her light golden
hair and lovely sea-blue eyes.
POLITCIAL POINTS
1 “Federal Oak must be a misprint for
Federal Joke.
George has the Protectionists, and Free-
traders both against him in Melbourne.
The Aue only devoted half-a-chlumn’s
space to Henry George’s first iMelbourne lecture.
Which The Bulletin regards as extremely bad
policy.
Henry George points out that N.S. Wales
raises almost as much through her Customs tariff
as dohs'"•■Victoria. Long live Parkesian “Free-
trade'” 1 ! ■ -
“ Mr. writhed under the castigation,
especially when Mr. Dibbs described him as a
lineal descendant of Ananias. ” — Australian Star
telegram.
Avoid the man that says that something or
other is “absolutely necessary to the welfare of
the Empire, sir.” That man is either a pompous
humbug, ora snuffling idiot. Anyway, he is a
dreary nuisance.
The Adelaide Australian Natives’ Associa-
tion is trying to get one or two representatives
Ws
A STRONG ARGUMENT
BROWN (the wag, to Shentmore): “LOOK HERE, WHY DON’T YOU SPEND
SOME OF THAT MONEY OF YOURS? YOU KNOW YOU CAN’T
TAKE IT AWAY WITH YOU, AND IF YOU DID IT WOULD
MELT.”
into Parliament, but with very discouraging
results so far. They are seeking - solace by praying-
for Her Gracious.
Minister Carruthers asserts that a man
should not speak unless he has something new to
say. The trading-off upon the community of this
venerable chestnut clearly indicates that Minister
Carruthers should assume a muzzle.
The N.S.W. Protectionists are requested
to see that their names are carefully put on the
electoral roll. The roll, as compiled by the police,
will be open for inspection at every court-house in
the province from now until the 14th April.
At least one copy of The Bulletin’s “ His-
tory of Botany Bay ” was sent in for competition
for the Carruthers’ school history go-as-you-
Please. And the examiners don’t know yet
whether its arrival is to be treated as a joke.
The “Freetrade” N.S.W, Government
are going to give the Australasian Engine-works
Co., Ld., a substantial advance per ton on the
price of imported engines. Thus do Parkes and
Co. hold the candle of expediency to the devil of
Protection.
The promptness with which State assist-
ance was given to those injured by the floods in
the Manning and Hastings (N.S.W.) electorate
was wonderful. At least it would have been
wonderful had there not been a parliamentary
election on the board.
A new tram-car has just been launched in
Sydney. It’s on the American principle and gives
ingress and egress at the ends only. It is intended
as the “ late-sitting tram ” for members of Parlia-
ment, who would be liable to fall out were the car
Open at the sides.
W. H. Paul, member for Bathurst, is the
Parliamentary Secretary of the Local Option
League, and, now Frawncis is on the briny, the
most potential Orangeman in the House. Which
little fact is not without its significance in view of
the forthcoming general election. A simplal
equation : Loyal Orange Lodge—L.O.L.— Local
Option League.
The Russian administrative reforms pro-
jected by the late Count Tolstoi are now in use,'
Flogging has been reintroduced and the knoutf
will be the. punishment for the minor offences of
the peasantry in place of fines or imprisonment.
New South Wales has now got a mate.
Attempt at an epigram, circulated in MS.
among the platform crowd at Copeland’s Sydney
anti-Single-tax meeting:—
What, Foxall a Georgite ? Nay, it can’t be so;
As well a purist keep a bagnio;
As well prate virtue while pouching virtuas price,
As trade in private lots while owning ’em’® -a vice I
The Bulletin’s prediction thatthere would
shortly be a Coalition Government in South Aus-
tralia will likely be fulfilled. Sir John Bray will
be an important factor in bringing this about. Ho
has already declined to join the Cockburn team,
and must therefore be reckoned with when the
new Parliament meets.
Mr. Buxton, M.P., says “ Before re-
sorting to a, strike the union ought to be sure of
three things—that its action involved no breach of
faith ; that it could compass the end in view by no
other means ; and .(last not least) that it
would probably win.” . Let the Australian Single-
taxers chew this over arid think hard.
Up to date the nett anti-Protectionist re-
sult of Henry George’s visit to N.S.W. is the
conversion to straight-out Freetradeand land-con-
fiscation .of J. ,P. T. Caulfield. It is rumoured
that the Foreign-trade Association has earnestly,
and in the name of heaven, implored Caulfield to
keep his conversion a profound secret.
The smartest thing ever said in the House
of Commons was Randolph Churchill’s excuse for
changing his political tone within a fortnight. “I
have become convinced during the progress of this
debate,” says Randolph, “and if a man’s opinions
are never to be altered by a debate, then what is
the good of debate ?” That shut ’em up, that did.
The N.S.W. Freetraders are uneasy as to
their prospects at Bathurst. The split over “ the
hospital ” between Hon. Webb and his whilom
protege, Saddler Paul, is widening, and it is more
than likely that the Webbs, who consider they
put Paul in, will do their level best to put him out
next time. “Our breath can unmake him as our
breath has made ” is the burden of the Webb song.
One of the most nauseous weeklies pub-
lished in London is the “Primrose” organ, which
has the brazen impudence to drag out its miserable
existence under the style of ENGLAND. A
recent number mentions that Brazil is grieved at
the casting forth of its Emperor, that the dock-
labourers are spoilt children of fortune, and that
“the death of the Due d’Aosta is a sad blow to
Italy.”
Geniuses like Henry George are always
void of tact. Protectionist Trenwith has less
knowledge in his whole body than there is in
George’s little finger, yet, for all that, ho will
easily beat George on the platform, quite apart
from the justice of his cause. George is a writer—
Trenwith a speaker—only—and there is all the
difference. He has been platform-grappling from
boyhood.
Garland, M.P., a N.S.W. Foreign-trader,
is said to own the Australian patent rights of the
improved Edison phonograph. If we owned them
we’d get some accomplished mimic (say John
Haynes) to fire into the machine a first-class cari-
cature of one of Parkes’ self-laudatory speeches,
pitched in a childish treble with five “Hi’s” in every
line, and all the other aitches left out. Then we’d
hawk the concern right through N.S. Wales before
the general election, and charge sixpence for ad-
mission' to the ’all. We present this ’int free to
Garland so as to henable him to liven hup helec-
tioneering.
The N.S.W. Foreign Trade party declare
that they will not assent to Traill’s One Man
One Vote Bill unless Sydney, which on the basis
of population is under-represented in Parliament,
be given additional members by an amending
electoral act. In the long run the N.S.W. Con-
servatives, who arc running a bulky and overfed
city—whose electorates have an absolute identity
of interest—against the country electorates, where
interests are varied, will have to accept the One
Man One Vote principle and fight afterwards for
increased representation—which is - very likely
they won’t get.
How admirably the N.S.W. Single-taxers
have coached Henry George up in local aspects of
Australian land-legislation may be judged from
the fact that George had to get to Melbourne
’before he learnt the whole truth about the N.S.W.
Post-office Approaches Act. Garland and Co.
were so busy in effusively adulating the demi-god
of their imagination that they had neither time
nor capacity left to post up the man as he is, with
the primary facts necessary to a rudimentary
grasp of conditions so widely-diverse from those
which he had studied. They are kicking them-
selves now, but the self-administered punishment
is nothing to the castigation the party have already
got from George.
When George gets to South Australia he
will meet with Payment, the working shoemaker,
who, in his braininess and general moral and
mental massiveness, recalls the stories told of the
logical power of Samuel Drew, the author of the
“Immortality of the Soul,” and of Thomas
Cooper, the Chartist poet, who wrote his magnifi-
cent “Purgatory of Suicides” while incarcerated
for participation in bread-riots in which it was
proved subsequently lie had no share. Man for
man, we believe Payment to be more than a match
for George. Payment is a Single-taxer, but he
sees, what George does not see—that the Single-
tax will destroy something more than speculative
land-values; it will destroy interest, the legitimate
wages of capital, and a wage which Karl Marx
himself would not deny to capital. John Farrell,
whom Single-taxers accept as the most competent
journalistic exponent of the cult in N.S. Wales,
admits that Payment has said the last word on
the interest question and that he supersedes George
thereon.


Jt is i curious thing in con-
nection with the epidemic that -tboae who are a
great deal in the open air are specially liable to
attack, and ibis may be the explanation, ct the
fact that the i police (orce should haye been
affected to a conspicuous degree.
iff 4
7ci//efz/ - doctor, //us Ai/iftacuT-u.
'Seems /b Se no respecter c/ Person,*:
Zrrj Cc/rcc /(£ Opt fi Jy/aS
Should, yoo 'fo.y fyoca f
Jtoctor - IS/ioatcL
Sea/ ///at you y
Cootc/erfal' thfica:///fie "
One Oastk/SS Jjefi/re lot Sever "
dut/kelUr/L dadlnffueiLta.atdcL
r fi/niUti.heou.s Sneeze fiar/eo,
— fierSofif /arefer)
£j£o crfia//&zc/{^
MfV/CAL (/BN 7. There,
'notoaO* so Co/ de/\2
am 'nor (fo//tg//i nty-
~Se//, you TenouT-
i I
I '
Ri
ţ
TUi&n^
LrfrbL ;
lljyy./' ' 1
jzUjcX'iw-^. I
J &
ttcUd
I
. /’///•<?/£ z*2 U>rr/€-* °n- •#*& as „ Ci f ~ r ta^/
I, you, cAantts wM ie P**TS
Wk/,/1. y c//ctn y~ recoverfi*rr
/ "of&e cA 7
I /e//cc 6y Jo-'tS? / „
\ ' 77tC o*te>- 0/7, e \J/utj n o rery
/ Jbo/ou/ar Cd/fli //ie oroojn ec/ tea of
/ /Furofie A/cart S x
‘ yy rj y we . "J> oat Say Je 6/ -
Then /fit /nfi fats/t /tyf-csn-y? 1 *- y~/
/dctfi'C' ctriy /</ r£/6et''*c /
\ *
Jtf
\¥#. n
•^4
„ i-.s Ttio-f
..ftV fit d io iUf^t
The Al SIAA To.itmusler-
Creoeml a Pi/g-
-ufa "/n regard /afye Spread o/ //[f/ae/tia 'rtfe Co/any
and Arc sficcCa/ /ceres 5/fy /"or S'A°a/?//o/>sj /a Ac oS'-ffrePcC
o/i Aos-fitU premisef, 7
THE UNFLUENZA.


7
THE MURRAY SQUABBLE.
SEW SOUTH WALES: 'Oh! bother the Murray! Come along home and settle the fiscal question. This is only another dodge o f yours to stove it off-and, Mr. Gillies, I do thiol, you might be more usefully employ ed than in
getting this old gentleman excited about a matter that a child could settle in two minutes.”


Foreign & colonial exchange bank
OF AUSTRALASIA, Limited.
Sydney —Bo King Street.
Melbourne — 860 Collins Street.
London Bankers —Australian Joint Stock Bank,
No. 2 King William Street, London, E.C.
This Bank undertakes the Exchange of Money,
both International and Intercolonial, includ-
ing the Coinage of all Foreign Nations, in
addition to all usual and customary banking busi-
ness.
Deposits Kece
3 years
12 months ...
6 months ...
3 months ...
Communications to
Managing Director.”
be
D J
8A per cent.
8 per cent.
7 per cent.
6 per cent,
addressed to ‘
The
WILSON,
Secretary.
The SYDNEY DEPOSIT BANK,
110 KING STREET -90
Established 1885.
Agencies in London and throughout Australia.
Overdrafts granted against Deposit of Deeds,
and all the usual banking business transacted.
The following are the Kates of Interest allowed
for Fixed Deposits
3 Months ...
5 percent, allowed on daily I ccount
For the past Four (4) Years a Bonus of One pei
Cent, has been paid in addition to the above rates.
This is the first and only Bank in the Colonief
which divides its profits with its depositors.
Communications from the country will be
3 Years
12 Months
6 Months
94 per cent.
8.4 per cent.
promptly attended to.
T. S. RICHARDSON,
General Manager.
W. H. PALING & COMPANY, LIMITS
356 ; George Street, SYDNEY,
*z t ss& u s££s i fl s« ,rt "
Society
This is the sort of thing which Parkes will
communicate to the press in a couple of months :
Hawarden, 1890.
Dear Sir H. Parkes— Allow me to thank you for the
copies of the Sydney Herald containing the articles sum-
marising my “Wise Words,” and also for the excellent
judgment with which you have selected the quotations
from my poor writings. It is something indeed to feel
that the products of my pen have attracted the notice of
one so distinguished as yourself.—Believe me, Dear Sir H.
Parkes, W. E. Gladstone.
There will be a postscript to the letter which,
however, will not be given to the press
p.S.—I am afraid the many calls on my time will not
permit me reciprocating the compliment. No doubt, as
you suggest, the publication in the Nineteenth Century
of a similar abstract of your “ Wise Words ” would excite
national interest, but cannot well undertake the task at
present. Try Dibbs. W. E. G.
* * *
The latest reason given why Lord; Lothian
should succeed Governor Carington in N.S.W. is
that Lord L. “ is a brother-in-law of our Admiral,
Lord Charles Scott ’’—who is married to. Miss
Ryan—who is a cousin of Lady Clarke —who is
the wife of Baronet Clarke—who is the son of Big
Clarke, the Tasmanian butcher, and don’t you
forget it.
# * *
Up to now the historical mean man has
been the employer who, when a workman of his
was blown up towards heaven by a dynamite
explosion, docked his employe’s wages for the
time he had been absent from earth. But this
mean man has now to take a back seat. Some
time ago—how long ago Tpe Bulletin positively
declines to say—a steamer was wrecked up South,
and the chief Australian agent telegraphed to the
purser: “ Can you supply information of amount
of the wine-bills of the saved passengers? Reply.”
* * *
Isaiah Reginald Coiien, the well-known
Sydney “financier” —between which word and
the more remorseless-sounding term “usurer”
there often appears to be about as much difference
as there is between crocodile and alligator—is not
only a money-lender ; he is also a novelist. His
last work of fiction w-is entitled “How Will it
End ?” and began with this immortal sentence ;
“The scene lays in Paris.” Reginald has
just had a most chilly reception from
Chief Justice Darley, who obviously hates
usury—or perhaps he has read Mr. Cohen’s novel.
The trouble was all along of a loan of £7 10s., the
nett cash proceeds of which, according to the
necessitous Richardson (who undertook in return
to pay £9 10s. by instalments of Os. weekly) were
£G 7s. (id. only. Thus, as Mr. Cohen paid out £0
7s. 6d. and charged £3 2s. 6d. straight away for
the use of it, besides securing to the Cohenian
bank the use of the instalments paid during the
currency of the loan, he had a “ real good thing ”
in hand, for could he not lend out Richardson’s
weekly repayments at shixty or more per shent as
they came to hand ? Anyone interested in such
matters can figure out with the aid of the com-
pound interest tabletheper-centagerealisableunder
<uch circumstances by anyone with a brass plate, a
hard heart, and a cast-iron bill-of-sale, in addition
to the mental qualities so often indexed by a
hatchet-face and a taken from the Book of
Numbers.
# # #
Mr. Cohen tokl the Chief Justice that he
“always explained bills of sale to his customers
before they left the bank.” What a beautiful
picture is here presented to our mind’s eye. Mr,
Cohen, the great banker, condescending to explain
to the poor client whom he has just good-naturedly
obliged, the beauties of a document according to
which —in the words of the Chief Justice—“ if a
man were only one week in arrears, if he owed
only Os., this person, Cohen, could swoop down
on him, sweep him clear of everything he had on
earth, and even if the goods were worth £OO send
them to auction, sell them perhaps for a few shil-
lings, take what was his due, while the only
remedy that the borrower had was to recover the
balance ! ”
• * *
Hereupon another Mr. Cohen, a lawyer
hired for the occasion, exclaimed : “ It is the
law! ”
* * *
■’ Yes, it is “the law.” It is “so nominated
in the bond.” It is the i>ound of flesh.
# # *
The captain of an Australian second-class
coastal steamer is hero of the following little
yarn. One of his mates a married man
having been drowned by falling from a gangway
when in liquor, the captain took a tender interest
in the poor widow and collected subscriptions on
her behalf from his passengers on every trip for
many months afterwards. A passenger who went
to the theatre one night after arriving in port saw
the captain in the dress-circle with a large,
showily-dressed woman in a V-out bodice, sitting
beside him. “Who is that with the captain?
asked the passenger of a mutual friend. “Did
the captain ask you for a subscription on the way
down ?” “Yes, for a poor widow, and I gave him
a note.” “Well, that’s the poor widow sitting
beside him.”
» * *
Murdoch, the cricketer, was knocked down
to Miss Watson, daughter of millionaire Watson,
of Bendigo, by Auctioneer Kinsman. It was
rather clandestine, but, although a row was macle,
no blame could be attached to anyone. Murdoch
made his wife’s acquaintance on shipboard.
Before this, Rev. Dr. Nish, of Sandhurst, took
the Misses Watson for a tour of the globe, on 'a
liberal cheque from the millionaire. ,
* * * A-
Rev. Kinsman’s little trouble brings back
memories of “ Bishop ” Bailey, who in the sixties
had his “smithy” in Burton-street, Woolloomoo-
loo. Bailey, who was a scholar and entitled to
tack M. A., LL.D. and twenty other letters to his
name, was a professional tutor, and “coached”
many of the “Devil’s Own” now practising in
Australia. However, his chief means of living in
later years were “marriages,” his trade in which
very closely ran that of another “ buckle-beggar,”
Parson Fullerton, who long survived him and died
worth six figures a few years ago. Unlike Fuller-
ton, Bailey had no congregation t'o speak of,
though he styled himself “Bishop of the Free
Church,” the denomination of which Kinsman is a
pastor—and we must here express our surprise
that the latter has not up to now sported a mitre,
for he is episoopally fat and would look stunning
in an apron and gaiters. Bailey always advertised
his fixings in the first column of the b.M. Herald
and the little cottage in Burton-street had many
nightly visits from couples who wished to be made
A STERN REPROOF.
Present: Squatter, Young Hopeful, and the Kev. Evangelist-Scopem, bush-missionary,
at dinner at the homestead.
YOUNG HOPEFUL (who has hem watching with dismay the rer. gentleman’s attack on the
edibles): " SAY, PA, THAT FAT MAN WILL EAT ALL THE PEAS.” N.B.—
Vegetables are scarce out West.
REV.-: "I DON’T BLAME YOU, MY CHILD, BUT YOUR FATHER FOR
BRINGING THE LIKE OF YOU INTO THE WORLD.
one, but many of whom, like Sir Peter Teazle and
his wife, were two soon after, if the police-court
reports were to be believed. 44 The parties were
married by Bishop Bailey,” was kept as a stand-
ing line in the newspaper-offices. Like Kinsman,
Bailey made a ,slip in too unceremoniously marry-
ing somebody, and as a consequence he made his
bow at Uarlinghurst assizes to Sir Alfred Stephen,
who sent him up for six months, at the same time
telling him he might thank his stars that he 44 was
not known judicially’’—which little.-hint meant
that Sir Alfred knew Bailey had been transported
for life in 1813 for forgery. In 1804 old John
Fairfax re-published in the Herald, a report of
the 44 Bishop’s” trial for forgery, for . which
little,piece of amusement Bailey sued- the paper
and obtained *£loo damages with costs. After
the “ Bishop” served : his six months he
applied to the Registrar-General.for registration
as before, but that officer (Mr. E. G. Ward)
refused on the ground that only clergymen with
hona-Me congregations could be registered under
the Act. Bailey appealed in perspn to the
Full Court, presided over by his, old friend, Sir
Alfred Stephen, but without success, although he
did produce some half-dozen sawney females who
said they were 44 of his congregation.” While
refusing the old man registration the Chief Justice
passed an honest euloguim on the learning and
eloquence he displayed in his appeal.
It. may be very nice for boarding-school
misses to read of joy-bells having been rung on a
marriage-day, but how about joy-bells for the
sleepless wretch on his bed of pain ? A muffin-
bell is a public nuisance and is so treated by the
law, but the parson has the high and holy privi-
lege of torturing people into the tomb and com-
mitting moral manslaughter as often as he likes
to hire rascals to tug at a rope. The only
people who now use bells are the clergy and those
equally interesting persons, the. “ Dutch ” auc-
tioneers. Years ago the gay and festive William
Pritchard Morgan was much annoyed at Cooktowu
by the hideous jangling of the bell of the church
immediately opposite his house. “If anybody
has any money to receive from me, or wants me to
appear in Court and purge him of horse-stealing, ho
is intensely punctual,” said W.P.M. to the parson,
“ and if your congregation, rev. sir, really desire to
worship God, they’ll do it without the intermediary
of a cow-bell. I like to take my breakfast in bed
on Sunday morning and then go to sleep, and you
apparently are determined that I shall not sleep.
Very well. My house has been here much longer
than your church and much longer than your
ghastly bell.” Next Sunday, when the bell had
ceased ringing and Morgan’s nervous dyspepsia
was in full blast upon his breakfast, he flung up
the window of the drawing-room with a bang,
put his foot on the bass pedal of the grand piano
and sang at the top of his voice for two solid
hours. That parson soon came to terms.
When Soapy Samuel Thornton, Bishop of
Ballarat, was “at home” t’other day, one oil his
pleasing duties was to finger a nice little cheque
for juggling Miss Sams, of the well-known
Launceston (Tas.) family, into Lady George
Macleay. The fair Tasmanian had a narrow
escape, a few years ago, of being decorated with a
similar title, Sir George Strachan, then Governor
of the Tight Little Island, making no secret of his
intention to marry her if he could. But he couldn’t.
•>■ ' * *
The invitations to the Hopetoun garden-
partv were understood to be 1200, while the com-
pany present totted up to something like 4000.
Whether 2800 of the beauties in bilious greens with
fat men in tall hats climbed over the palings, is
not as clear as it ought to be. Anyway, there
were many suspicious characters present, without
mentioning recognised leaders of sassiety, who
would be very suspicious if it were not for their ,
money. The lions of this light refreshment ap-
peared to be the Scotts and good old Sir ’Enry.
When the common mob had feasted their eyes on
Sir ’Enry and the dear dook’s relatives by blood
and marriage, they turned to more substantial
comforts, and remained there until the shades of
evening fell and the waiters came round to annex
what was left. Coming at a fresh, bracing time
of the year this important alfresco ceremony un-
doubtedly filled a long-felt want. A chaste old
Diana from East Melbourne, who kept on saying
that the hair made her as ’ungry as never was
filled a long-felt jacket without any ceremony at
all.
# * *
Society affairs in the pious city are as ffat
as dead beer. The Kintores have, it is rumoured,
returned to Government House, but they know
not local society, and a beautiful calm overspreads
the Y.M.C.A. and the Adelaide Club. It is now
stated that there will be no ball at Government
House oh the Queen’s Birthday, and the conse-
quence is the local saints will have to spread the
time by playing “ thrip’ny ” nap or ‘‘seven rip.”
Anyway, social matters are as quiet as Alex.
Crooks or Y.M.C.A. Walker.
* * *
The large, fat leaders of Brisbane ton are
to lose Lady Norman and her daughter in June.
They are going “ home” for a trip. Lady Robin-
son and her daughter went “home” for a trip. In
fact they all seem to go “home” for a trip except
the Caringtons, who came out for a trip and are
good enough to declare that they have enjoyed it
immensely—yes, immensely, bai Jove !
* * *
A. Melbourne butcher has been fined for
killing, on unlicensed premises, two calves “to
get sweetbreads for the Earl of Hopetoun. ”
The bread of idleness is sour,
So on the Earl’s behalf,
That he a sweetbread may devour
They kill another calf.
# * *
It is a general fashion for the Melbourne
women to wear orange-blossoms in their hats this
season. „
# # *
Hopetoun first started with the kurruk,
But now he kicks quite o’er the traces ;
Instead of minding pious wurruk,
He goes to all the plays and races.
Oh, the sca-a-amp ! Such was the expression
applied by Dr, Cairns to Governor Bowen when a
Presbyterian Assembly deputation offered to wait
on him at twelve, and he requested them to make
it eleven because he wanted to go to the races!
It was a treat to see Bowen at a meeting of the
Y.M.C.A. in Melbourne Town Hall, when ho
turned round and knelt at his chair because everyt
one else did so.
* * *
A large assortment of M.L.A., Council-
lors, and other suspicious characters, waited upon
Gov. Hopetoun the other day, to petition for the
release of a young girl serving a long sentence for
infanticide. H. E. “took into consideration the
very influential composition of the deputation,”
and promised to do his best for the cause. Now,
if that marmalade about “ influential composition ”
means anything, it means that men in belbtoppers
and long-tail coats may expect concessions for
beseeching which a deputation of common men in
work-a-day togs would be hastily fired out by
scornful imported flunkies. Australia has too
many influential individuals for her age and
weight, and ought to squelch a few of them.
# * *
A cask of gin had arrived at the back-
blocks station and a drink was served out to all
hands, including Black Peter, who in vain de-
manded another. At last he appealed to Mrs.
M'Squatter: “Gib me drink for Mary; Mary
going to have piccaninny.” This touched the
goodnature of “the missus,” and another drink
was handed to Peter, of whom Mrs. Mac. en-
quired, as he triumphantly bore the grog away
towards Mary’s hut: “When is the piccaninny
coming, Peter?” “ Berry likely in two year,” re-
plied Peter, making tracks.
* *, *
A first-class loafer, who hangs round for
drinks, the other day saw a Sydney barmaid make
a Yankee egg-drink for a customer. “What’s
that?” said the loafer. “Egg-nogg—will you have
one ?” said the other as he proceeded to gulp his
down. “ Thankee,” replied the loafer. And then
the barmaid put a bad egg into the glass and
MARRIED BY KINSMAN.
(A MELBOURNE ROMANCE.)
•• O, Hy with me to Mr, K. ! ”
Exclaimed the ardent boy—
“ A tram will take us all the way,'
His shop is at Fitzroy ;
He has a little parlour there,
He’s always on the job,
We’ll go and be a happy pair,
The price is thirty 4 bob.’
“ I’ve written out your Ma’s.cpnsent—
4 Please marry Mary Ann' —
With that he will be quite content,
He’s such a nice old man ;
We’li sit upon his sofa snug,
And promise to be true,
Then have a sort of solemn hug
And then he gives me you.
Pray hurry up, my lady fair,
The clock is striking eight!
If we lose time in getting there,
We’re bound to have to wait.
The shepherd’s busy after nine ;
Now, why does Polly blush ?
You see, I want to call her mine
Before the final rush.
For couples then come tripping in
Of every size and sort,
The couples plump, the couples thin,
Tall, medium, and short;
And in the scrimmage, people say
. 1 (Though p’raps they didn’t ought),
That many husbands go away
With wives they never brought.
So tarry hot, my Polly sweet,
It’s such a bit of fun !
Five minutes, and we’re at the street
Ten minutes, and we’re one!
Yes one, my pet, for good and all,
For better or for worse.
Be careful, dear ! I thought you’d fall--
And see, you’ve dropped your purse ! ”
They hurried off to Mr. K.,
Did Mary Ann and Bill,
And on the journey thither they
Made friends with Jack and Lil.,
Another pair on marriage bent;
Quite intimate they got —■
All four into the parlour went
To tie the double knot.
“ Now, which is which?” the shepherd cried ;
Then Jack he grinned at Bill,
And Mary Jinny turned aside
To have a word with Lil.
And when the shepherd brought his Book
To fix ’em up for life,
Friend Jack the willing Polly took,
And Lil. was William’s wife.
Two happy pairs in Melbourne dwell
Who honour Mr. K.;
The whole quartette are very well,
And sing the livelong day.
A daughter made young Bill more glad,
Ere twelve months bliss had run,
And Jack just jumped about like mad
When Lily had a son.


The
Marvellous
18s. 6d.
OPTIMUS
WATCHES
The Best, Cheapest and Most Accurate Timekeepers
ever produced.
Made especially to our order by one of the leading and
most celebrated manufacturers of Watches in Switzerland,
and experience has shown that no watch is better than a
well-made Swiss one.
Gilt movements, jewelled in six holes, keyless (10 turns
to wind), enamel dials, crystal faces, well made, splendidly
finished, nickel cases that will wear excellently; in fact,
real good-looking, handsome little watches, and magnifi-
cent timekeepers.
Twelve months’ guarantee forwarded with every one.
Send P. 0.0. for 19s. fid. (Is. postage), and have one
forwarded by post. If not in every way satisfactory after
a week money willingly refunded.
Only to be obtained from
FROST <Sc SHIPHAM,
Spectacle Makers, Opticians & Electricians,
474 & 587 GeorSe Street, Sydney.
ißCfi
Watches and Jewellery are like good wives—they are
worth having.
Send for Illustrated Price last. Post Free.
813 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
(Nearly opposite Railway Station).
Factories: Liverpool and London, England.
£2 10s. English Lever, Two Years’Guaranteed.
£3 10s. English Lever, “The Unequalled,” full cap.
£4 English Lever, “ The Special,” compensated.
20/- The Unequalled Keyless Watch. 20/-
Country Residents and Visitors to Sydney call or send
to A. SAUNDERS, 813 George Street (nearly opposite
Railway Station), SYDNEY.
ť
■ i
TUffllU
f
mmSSS&i SSP
ALMOST AS PALATABLE
AS MILK*.
So disguised that the most
delicate stomach can take it.
Remarkable as a
FI/ESII PRODUCER.
Persons gain rapidly
while tailing it.
SCOTT’S EMDLSIOI
Is acknowledged by Physicians to be the FINES'!
and BEST preparation of its class for the relief of
CONSUMPTION ; SCROFULA, GENERAL
DEBILITY, WASTING DISEASES OE
CHILDREN, and CHRONIC COUGHS.
SSLO BY ALL CHEMISTS.
j>o BEIiTSON’S \\ U ISK Y.
GIVEN AWAY IN THE COLONIES
. as follows:
10 of £5 each, 25 £2. and 70 H,
Pamphlets from the Agents, A-LLT &. CO., Limited.
( II A RLGTTE PR ACE. "SYDNEY
topped it up with peppermint, and the band pro*
ceeded to play “ God Save Our Gracious Queen.’
# * *
Ladies are now carrying immense leather
porte-inonnaies. Every woman just now has a
much longer purse than her husband.
We have just got hold of an artfully-
worded pamphlet, sprinted as late as last year in
London, for private circulation only, entitled
“The Truth about Brother Prince and the
Agapemone.” The rigs seem to be carried on as
lively as ever, though the Mormons are being put
down in the States. The pamphleteer charges
Prince with cohabiting with two women at least,
with his wife in the same house. Says the author :
“A child was born of the first adultery, but
Prince pleads it was not bis, became he gave the
poor girl up to the other men of the Agapemone
whom he had reduced to his own level. ” There is
a lot more of this kind of tiling, with a sentence
which may cause some thought; “The pair who
wish to dissolve their marriage need no longer
resort to the Divorce-court. They have only to
believe this deceiver and be free.” Prince himse’f
writes : “ For thirty years and upwards this new-
ness of life in the flesh, a resurrection, or virgin
life, has been lived in the Agapemone. ”
# # *
Governor Hopetoun, whose friends say he
has £BO,OOO a year, has ju-t munificently given £1
to a widow and her children. You can’t reason-
ably expect any man, even one with £BO,OOO a
year, to give a lot of money to everybody. But,
all the same, why should the announcement of
Hopetoun’s twenty-shilling benevolence occupy
18 lines of leaded type in the while the
average man is dismissed with “J. Smith, £1?”
However, there are two sides to everything, even
to a gubernatorial “quid.” Hopetoun’s little
pound is ever so much better than Queen Victoria’s
“ collect” telegram of sentiment.
* * *
The Bulletin has built a Presbyterian
church at Wodonga, Vic. No! Yes! An enthusi-
astic importation, in the shape of a young Tory
Anglican divine, objected, 12 months ago, to The
Bulletin being admitted to the local Athenaeum.
Most of the Athenaeum’s subscribers (who hap-
pened also to belong to the Episcopal Church)
insisted on the admission of this unregenerate
journal, and in the end the majority quitted the
Church, and ’verted to the Presbyterian faith,
which creed at the time was unrepresented in the
town. The consequence is the building under
notice. “ Can any good come out of Samaria?”
* * *'
The usurers of Australia, like their con-
freres in other lands, have a habit of deducting
the interest in advance from the sum lent. It i i
their almost invariable practice not to give a
cheque to the borrower for the amount of an ad-
vance. If a cheque passed, you see, the borrower
would be enabled later on, when showing up in
Court the rapacity of his “uncle,” to prove
exactly what money he actually received, and
what his Hebrew friend’s charges were. As this
would never suit Aaron Melchisedech he always
pays in gold. Then one story is as good as another
—provided the judge and jury think a money-
lender’s word is, on the average, as good as a
money-borrower’s.
* * *
Isn’t the Melbourne “swell,” whose
recent amours have furnished so much newspaper
“copy,” identical with the “friend” of the un-
fortunate self-poisoned M4rie St. Denis ?
* # *
Many Australians will be interested in a
recent police-court decision that it is necessary for
them to have a husband’s permission to be on hi?
premises, the consent of the wife alone not being
legally sufficient. However, we presume that the
dudelets will continue to rely on the wife’s per-
mission as usual.
# # #
The Archbishop of Canterbury has con-
ferred a meaningless degree of doctor of music
upon Mr. Joseph Summers, of Melbourne. It
will cost Mr. Summers GO guineas,' in fees, to take
up this distinction, which seems to be on all-fours
with Baronet Clarke’s honorary tommy-rot from
Oxford University. Npt that The Bulletin be-
grudges Canterbury his G 3 quid, although the
price sounds stiffish- The honorary degree of
Archbishop (A. 8.) Can be purchased at this office
for three half-crowns, “cash,” or 10 shillings on
time-payment.
* # *
Tummy is growing chilly in his old age,
for we read that he turned up at a fashionable
Spanish wedding—the most expensive nuptials of
the London season—in a coat trimmed with sable.
He uniat have looked for all the world like afried-
fish-selling alderman :
• The recent Fruit and Flower Show, at
Melbourne Exhibition, was remarkable for the
fact that six thousand men, women, and children
passed in free on Parliamentary tickets. It is
surmised that the honourable legislators let out
their “ briefs” on hire at a reduced price.
* * #
How about that promissory-note repudi-
ated by the alleged endorser, the mother of the
issuer, as a forgery ? Is there not one law for the
rich and another for the poor ?
mimm
7
A PARALYSER.
YOUNG LADY (to foreign applicant for apartments): WE ARE A CLERGYMAN’S
DAUGHTERS.”
INTENDING BOARDER: “VAS YOUR PA CATHOLIC OR PROTESHTANT?"
A new blush has been invented. It can be
laid on half-an-hour before it is wanted, and set,
like a chime of bells, to go off at the right moment.
And yet this discovery does not exhaust the
resources of science applied to the arcana of the
toilette. A new powder has also been introduced,
which “ defies perspiration.” All that is wanted
now is an appliance for fixing on a new variety of
haminered-iron cheek.
# * *
One reason why so many readers of the
D.T. were taken in by “Reginald Barron’s”
squib was, perhaps, that it was so strongly sug-
gestive of the congenital idiocy of the born aris
ocrat. Editor Whitelocke, of the Ba rrier Miner,
one of Barren’s most eminent victims.
# # *
The latest church announcement: —
Subject, To-morrow Evening at 0.30 —“ A Door Opened
in Hell.” You are cordially invited. Opportunity for
inquiry is given.
* * *
A Sydney Domain er informs us that one
of the peculiarities of the Sydney establishments
where a “full and plenty” can be had for six-
pence, is that when on Fridays fish is ordered by
the devout children of Mother Church, sausages
are sometimes served and eaten. The little fiction
hurts nobody except the dogs.
* * . *
What has Bishop Goe, of Melbourne, done
with that big private fortune which he was said
to have when he came to Australia three years
ago? In London they said he kept all his curates
from the pangs of poverty, but here he seems to
keep his money. Perhaps, though, he circulates
it unbeknownst. There is his £2OOO a year salary,
and we suppose he has privately as much besides.
Be contented, brethring. Goe’s fat little white
pony, pulling the brougham, is very suggestive of
himself. Ah, riches are a weariness of the flesh.
Anti-Socialist Barry would have proved it in his
London lecture, if they hadn’t torn up the forms.
Discourteous—very.
* * *
The great grievance of the Victorian Wes-
leyan parsons is that Fitchett, the admirable
Crichton, editor of Melbourne Daily Telegraph,
by force of talent is able to defy the rule of
Itinerancy, and is snugly ensconced at the Metho-
dist Ladies’College, with all his “ perqs.” Poor
Wesleyans hate the place, because it tends
to perpetuate class distinctions, so mischievous in
the chapels. Fitchett used to write against
Sunday travelling, but, on returning from Eng-
land he boldly di’ove to church, on Sabbath, with
a pair of ponies, in the nattiest of buggies.
* # *
Scene Blacks’ camp near Maytown,
Palmer River (Q.) Row between two aboriginal
owners of the soil; hard words and spears thrown
simultaneously; one sable warrior drops with a
spear through his commissariat department, and
dies instantly. Arrest of victor by wh te police
who lead him in chains over to the dead warrior
to view his handiwork, of which (judging by the
prisoner’s looks, gestures, and exclamations) he
is intensely vain—and, to tell the truth, he has
completed his part of the contra t with neatness
and precision, considering that he did it at a dis-
tance of fully 80 yards. After gazing at the result
of his artistic skill for some time with pardonable
pride, he is led off to “durance vile,” and the
rest of the tribe busy themselves with the
funeral obsequies of the deceased young “ brave,”
who leaves a dusky young widow to mourn his
untimely end. Next morning another young
“brave” with the widow in tow, dressed in full
war-paint, and without any other encumbrance
than “ womeras ’’and spears, stand opposite six
would-be suitors to the widow’s heart and hand,
dressed in a similar manner—armed with spears
and “womeras.” It is a beautiful sight to see
the bridegroom-elect dodge and parry the six
spears as they are thrown quickly in succession
by his rivals, who tax their utmost skill to hit
the successful wooer, but in vain. After the
ordeal is over he clasps his sable love to his
manly bosom and departs with her to sylvan
shades to spend their honeymoon. And still' they
want to civilise the blacks.
# # *» *
Apropos to the American (and Australian)
craze for wedding heiresses to titled rakes and
other more or less scofulous personages, the follow-
ing “ ad.” appears in an American journal
Wanted—An Opulent Wife.
To the American Public.—l am a German Prince and am
anxious to marry an American girl with not less than
3,000,000 dollars. lam Prince Zweibeer de Hammerstein,
and proudly bear in my own person and disposition all the
ancient and honourable characteristics of the Hammer-
stein family. For generations my people have had as
family heirlooms spinal disease, neuralgia, cancer, and
other bodily ailments not necessary to be mentioned, and
I have had 'all these, together with symptoms of paresis,
or consumption of the brain. I offer this evidence as
abundant proof that I am a genuine Hammerstein, and
no fraud or impostor. My reverence for my ancestors
leads me to follow in their footsteps as far as possible.
Many of my progenitors were imbeciles, and I was con-
sidered an idiot myself until my nineteenth year. This
is additional cumulative proof that I am a “chip of the
old block.” As a further sign of our princely blood, I will
add that my people have been heels over head in debt for
four hundred years, and no dead or living Hammerstein
was ever known to pay a tailor in full or to earn a dollar
by working for it. I will mention also, in passing, that I
shall not undertake to kiss my wife’s mother or sisters in
public or private, or do anything else that might seem to
imply any sort of equality between my wife’s people and
my own family. With my future father-in-law (assuming
that he shall be an American millionaire) I shall deal as
liberally as circumstances will permit and allow him
everything consistent with established usage and pre-
scription. I shall require him to give my wife 2,000,00(1
dols. and to make over to me the balance of his property,
the same to he worth not less than 1,000,000 dols.
Wealthy parents answering this advertisement will not be
required to say whether they are white or black or to
furnish any information about their antecedents or social
position, such things being wholly irrelevant and un-
interesting. What I am after is “dust,” and lots of it.
Proposals received till June 1, 1890.
* * *
A Sydney solicitor was lately taking in-
structions from a client to bring an ejectment
action to recover possession of some valuable pro-
perty. “Did you ever ask defendant to give up
possession?” asked the solicitor. “I did once, ’
replied the client, “and he said he wouldn’t, and
produced a bundle of which he^ shook
in my face.” “That’s a good sign,” said the
solicitor; “you see he’s beginning already to
waive his title !” This alleged ioke has a strongly
Salomonsy flavor.
* * *
The Adelaide “Australian Natives” have
inaugurated what they call the “ Wattle Blossom
League ” for their lady members. We are getting
very tired of this wattle-blossom business. Why
don’t the sentimental folks start something fresh ;
Let’s have the “Soughing She-oak League,” or
“Fragrant Eucalyptus League” by all means.
# * * .
“New Republic” Mallock, nephew of
Eroude, has opened a “ Court Bureau ” which per-
forms for its fashionable subscribers all the more
mechanical duties of social life. It leaves cards,
issues invites, compiles menus and ball-pro-
grammes, engages servants, takes theatre-seats,
supplies “ disengaged diners,” and gives informa-
tion as to the whereabouts of distinguished persons,
and disengaged bachelors.
Minister Carruthers, lecturing to a church
literary association, recommended his hearers to
read, among others. Fielding. A dose of “Joseph
Andrews”—“straight,” and not Henry Morleyised
—will be excellent for the young men to begin with.
*• * *
A prisoner who was fined £lO at the
Prahran (Melb.) police-court, the other day, tried
to borrow that sum from the Bench, and was
thereupon fined further - for endeavouring to have
a loan of the Court, we presume.
f ; - # *
Rev. Kinsman, of Fitzroy (Vic.) Free
Church is to be criminally prosecuted for marrying
.a couple who had not attained years of discretion.
People who want ,to marry cannot possibly have
attained years of discretion, anyhow.
5f * *
A Melbourne paper gives an interview
with an old British- soldier, aged 84, still hearty,
and seeking for work ! Poor devil. He was
among the first to enter the Redan, and was
wounded bv 4 bullets at Inkermann. What is the
reward for all this ? Ask the Duke of Cambridge
dr Duke of Connaught.
LEAVING THE BAR.
After Tennyson's latest — “Crossing the Bar.”
Sunset and evening star,
And one “ night off ” for me !
And may there be no serving at the bar
When I have had my tea.
And may our customers be gone to'sleep.
Too full of beer and foam,
When she, whose skirts from but .the bar-room
sweep, v.y
Turns again home.
Twilight and evening bell,
And after that the dark !
And may there be no sadness of farewell
From my bank-clerk.
For though from out this bourne of Time and
Place
The tram may bear me far,
I hope to see my feller face to face
When I have left the bar.
EDMUND FISHER.
SABLE TRIMMINGS.
There was a time when happy Wales
To laugh at wintry winds was able,
But now his circulation fails,
And so his coat is trimmed with sable.
Nigh fifty years of heavy food,
Of too much “pleasure of the table,”
Have shattered a digestion good ;
They have to do him up in sable.
Pet dogs must wax infirm at last,
r Fat horses, too, in finest stable ;
They have their day, their day is p'hst—
And Tummy’s coat is trimmed with sable,
The blood but trickles through his veins—
“ Used-up ” should be the royal label ;
His body is a bed of pains,
Despite the richness of his sable.
We weep for Tummy, poor old chap !
His “ broken health ” is not a fable ;
He lies in luxury’s warm lap,
Yet needs a garment trimmed with sable.
SOME LATE NEWS.
His Excellency, Hopetoun, has been chumming in
with Barkes,
And if the floods keep rising we shall all need
Noah's Arks.
The Germans don’t seem sorry that old Bismarck
has resigned;
When Plutarch ran at Lincoln, lor, they left him
all behind !
A naughty Melbourne nevvy shot his uncle
through the chest,
Tommy Ryan is committed, and there’s riots in
the West.
Henry George has fallen flat beside the Yarra’s
smelly stream.
Old Ireland does not cotton to the cunning lory
scheme
For buying out the landlords at a special lory
price. „
Some flabby Melbourne dudelets think that
Potter’s very nice, ....
Though others swear her acting is a histrionic sin,
And hanker for a Potter’s field to bury strangers
in.
Onr Bob has sent a “fiver ” for the monument to
Searle; . .
Another Queensland parson is in trouble with a
girl.
Away up in Otago they have found a bag of bones,
Belonging to a party who was probably named
Jones. ‘
They have also found that doctor—the Woollahra
pet, M‘Leod —• . ...
And his loving wives are waiting to receive him in
a crowd. , , , r „
Fresh Land Boom revelations make the Melbourne
pigeons stare; .
Federation, just at present, seems a-sttekmg m
the air. . ,
That awful Influenza has from Hingland travelled
And The Bulletin is published at a “tanner,” as
before.


“The leading Packet Tea in New South Wales
is the Famous Billy Tea. Its consumption is
ut least double that of any other brand in the
market.-” ...
PACKED ONLY BY
Jamoß liiglis <&? Co.,
-4 & i> Dean's Place, SYDNEY.
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
“Why do American Hop Bitters cure so
many?” “ Because they give good digestion, rich
blood, and healthy action of all the organs.”
The Licensed Victuallers’ Association,
Melbourne, threatens, in revenge for the Sunday
Closing Act, really to close the hotels ! This is
delicious.
Why drink nauseating decoctions lured
on by the vain idea that they will “ do you good ”?
Keep yourself always in trim by imbibing
Marshall’s Tonic Nervine.
ALWAYS AHEAD.
With it none other can compare,
None other dare compete,
For Pkmell’s Flour is everywhere
Known to be good and sweet.
S. Freeman and Sons, Manufacturers of
the celebrated Batho’s Baking Powder, Malt
Vinegar and Soda Crystals &c. have, owing to the
great increase in their trade been compelled to
make extensive additions to their present large
premises in order to successfully compete with the
great and still increasing demand for their goods.
Old-fashioned Jewellery modernised to perfection. De-
signs free. Daiims and Co., King-street Arcade.
Harry Britton takes up the Australasian’s
theatrical criticism in place of Ur. Neild. He is
a most competent man, yet the circumstances of
his advent as the paper’s critic are humiliating,
considering why Neild was turned out. But
the Doctor can no more be kept from writing about
plays than he can from dissecting bodies at the
morgue.
Our old Australian friend Ben. Farjeon,
the novelist, from New Zealand, figures amid the
“Celebrities at Home” of the London World.
He seems to be comfortably fixed up, and as rich
as they make ’em—novelists. We have half a
mind to interview his poor brother, for we know
where he is. Surely Ben might have done some-
thing for the unfortunate fellow, who was mooch-
ing about Melbourne months ago, while everyone
said “Ben Far jeon’s brother.” He was an actor,
below Poverty Point zero. But what are the
benevolent asylums for ?
A Nerve Tonic.
horseord’s acid phosphate.
Dr. James Black, L.R.C.S., Primrose Hill,
0 ckburnspath, Scotland, says : “As a nerve
tonic I know nothing like it. It gives me great
satisfaction.’’
Use Batho’s 'Baking Powder.
It is said that the N.S.W. Licensed
Victuallers have sent a commission to England to
closely enquire into the matrimonial affairs of a
certain M.L.A.
Reliable Watch Repairs. Dahms & Co., King-st. Arcade
The two sons of Governor Kintore (S.A.)
the other day threw a bucket of soapy water over
a footman from an upper window. It is such
little incidents as this that draw closer the bonds
uniting little Australian boys to the dear old
mother country.
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
Land at Perth, W.A., the best investment.
Plans from Intercolonial Investment Co., Ltd.,
96 Bathurst-ttreet, Sydney.
the WAY THE MONEY GOES.
The Anheuser Busch Brewing Association em-
ploys 2200 men at its brewery in St. Louis. It is
customary to allow all employes a liberal supply
of the famous St. Louis Lager Beer for their own
consumption while at work, the beer being drawn,
from packages ready for market. The beer thus
consumed amounts in value to £6O per day, and
sometimes reaches £4O, or about £lO,OOO a year.
The Choicest Jewellery. Dahms & Co., King-st. Arcade.
Dr. Cockburn, the S.A. Premier, holds
the highest medical diplomas obtainable. The
medical profession did not, however, suit the
Doctor’s ambitious temperament, and he took to
politics.
Photography. —Oharlemont and Co. (vice-regal
photographers), in the Royal Arcade, beg to an-
nounce that they have, now reduced .the price of
their Cabinet Photographs to 15s. per doz.
any style—bust, vignette or three-quarter figure.
Messrs. Charlemout feel assured that this reduc-
tion in price will meet the many who refrained
from sitting in their studio, solely on account of
the price hitherto being higher than they might
rare to pay. Grosvcnor Galleries, Royal Arcade.
Ihe Amalgamated Society of British Bu-
gineers has a credit balance of £220,000,
The Mayor of Melbourne and the Presi-
dent of the Board of Health have been stricken
by influenza. The malady respects not even the
most influenzial personages.
Rev. Charles Clark thinks that the most
striking proof of the advance of the principle of
Federation is the enormous circulation enjoyed in
Melbourne and Adelaide by The Bulletin.
Read this very carefully and think over it
well. O. J. Roberts, 0.M.G., is to be appointed
totheN.S.W. Upper-House by Parkes. What
are his main qualifications ? The same as those of
nine-tenths of the other men who have been sent to the
Upper-House by Parkes. No one behind the scenes
will misunderstand this paragraph.
An ephemeral Melbourne publication an-
nounced that The Bulletin and itself were the
only honest, outspoken journals in Australia, The
poor little organ in question has petered out, and
now there is but one honest paper left, same as
usual, Good old Bulletin! By the way, the
death-rate among Melbourne weeklies has been
abnormally high of late.
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
Mr. Maude, the individual, it is to be
presumed, so long and hitherto unavailingly
requested to come into the garden, has at length
consented, having begun business as a nurseryman
and opened a florist’s shop in King-street,. Sydney.
The firm banqueted a large party of friends and
well-wishers in an upper chamber at Quong Tart’s
last Monday evening, when Q. T. catered in first-
class style.
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
Sir William Macleay, President of the
N.S.W. National Club, doesn’t appear to turn up
at that institution quite so often as he used to.
First he felt generally unwell: then he got twinges
of gout, and no wonder. Just imagine the old
gentleman, erstwhile the Australian Club pal of
cheery “Billy” Dailey and genial “Pat.” Jen-
nings, sitting moodily in his chair at the National
with Forsyth droning rope-statistics into his right
ear while John Lucas awakes with a grunt in a
chair on his left to remorselessly wheeze into him
the celebrated Protectionist pamphlet he wrote in
1864. If violent measures be not immediately
taken with Forsyth and Lucas, the National Club
will, The Bulletin predicts, altogether lose the
invaluable services and patronage of the Macleay,
who will one of these days suddenly renounce
politics and politicians for the Linnean Society,
with its snakes and grubs. Science and literature
are the best mental sweethearts.
Reliable Watch Repairs. Dahms &(Jo., King-st. Arcade.
Government Advertisements.
Department of Public Works.
Sydney, April 1, 1890.
I LENDERS FOR PUBLIC WORKS ANL
SUPPLIES.
For Conditions, see Govehnment Gazette.
|Dates to which
Nature of Works and Supplies. i ( . ail ved
j at this office.
Erection of Lock-up, Bombala
Retaining Wall, University Out-’
ting. Contract No. 1. Manu-j
facture, &c., of Ironwork and
Lead for Railing. Contract No.
2. Construction of Wall
Erection of Rost and Telegraph
Office, Silverton
Additions, Police Barracks, Cud-|
gelico |
Bridge, Boggy Creek, road Condo-j
bolin to Hillston (fresh tenders) I
Bridge, Deep Creek, road Condo-1
bolin to Wagga Wagga (fresh
tenders)
Bridge, road Brooklyn, Railway
Station to Old Peats Ferry Road,
Bridge, Gundaman Creek, road|
Wiseman’s Ferry to Mangrove!
Creek
Bridge at Shannon’s on road Hin-j Wednesday,
ton to Mount Kan wary I April 16,
Bridge, Duck River, at Mona-j at 11 o’clock.
street, Auburn
Construction of Offal Barge for
Glebe Island
Erection of Courthouse, Berry
Renewal of Hotwater Pipes, Hos-|
pital for Insane, Parramatta
Wharf, Kincumber Creek, Bris-
bane Water
Construction of Stormwater Sewer, |
Pyrmont Bridge Road, Contract
No. 59 Sydney Sewerage.
Additions Post and Telegraphj
Office, Bathurst
Construction of two Wooden Punts
for Grab Dredges, Long Cove
Supply of a “3-ton” Crane for
Moruya River
Alterations and additions, Bridge
in approaches to Wahgunyah
Bridge _ ___
Additions to Wharf, Seven Oaks,
Macleay River
Construction of Wharf at Byan-
gum, Tweed River
Construction of Wharf at Mullum-
bimby, Brunswick River
Construction of Wharf at Upper
Mangrove Creek, Hawkesbury
River
Construction of Wharf at Cockle
, Creek, Brisbane Water
Construction of Strong - room,
Lands Office, Armidale
Additions to Hydraulic Engine
House, Bullock Island, New-
Wednesday,
April 30,
at 11 o’clock'.
Construction of Cottage Creek
(Newcastle) Sewer, Contract
No. 1, Country Towns Sewerage
Erection of Lockup, Brushgrove,
Clarence River (fresh tenders)
Bridge Parramatta River at O’Con-
noil-street, Parramatta
Installation of Electric* Light,
Bullook Island, Newcastle
Bridge, .Lachlan River at
Contracts 1 and 5 (tiluo 1 ex-
tended)
Construction of Bridge, M,utcay
River at Corowa. Contract
No. 1 and 2
Wednesday,
May 14.
at 11 o’clock.
BRUCE SMITH,
Furniture, &c.
N
EWT ON AND LAMB.
FURNITURE and PIANOFORTE
WAREHOUSEMEN,
CABINETMAKERS, UPHOLSTERERS
AND
BEDDING MAN XJF AOT.U RERS.
SHOW BOOMS AND MANUFACTORY:
SPRING AND O’CONNELL STREETS.
EASY CHAIRS, for Parlour, Library, or Bed-
rooms, new designs, covered to order, in
any material.
PIANOFORTES, by R. LIPP and SOHN.
L. NEUFELD and other Celebrated
Makers at WHOLESALE PRICES. Newton
and Lamb.
BAGATELLE BOARDS, Portable, various
sizes.
BEDROOM SUITES, complete, in various
Woods, and very handsome designs, with
7 feet Wardrobes, or with smaller Wardrobes for
single rooms. Great variety.
NEW TO N aN d LA MB,
Furniture Warehousemen,
SPRING AND O’CONNELL STREETS.
BEDROOM SUITES, fashionable early
English designs—Wardrobe 4 feet, with
silvered plate-glass door : Washstand, with marble
top and tile back, Towel Radi; Toilet Table,
with Swing Glass attached ; and Two Cane-
Seated Chairs, 14 guineas.
NEWTON & LAMB,
O’Connell and Spring Streets.
ŧ
Ci ANYAS FOLDING
/ COTS, for camping
out. A cheap occasional
bed light, strong, axv 1
handy, 10s. Gd.
Newton & Lamb.
DINING TABLES, with patent extendin’?
screws, from 5 feet long and up to 20 feet.
■HtaINUT telescopic dining
W TABLES with extra leaves, strongly
made, £3 10s.
Hall furniture, hatstands ami
CHAIRS. LARGE ASSORTMENT,
NEWTON & LAMB.
IBRARY FURNiTURE, CENTRE ami
SIDE TABLES, BOOKCASES, SECRI
TARIES, READING and LOUNGE CHAIRS.
CNOMMDDE CHAIRS. BIDETS, with Pan,
j SHAVING STANDS, NEWTON and
LAMB.
JAPANESE BLINDS, White or Green (ext v
quality), fitted with pulleys and cord, 6 x N
«s. (Jd.j 8 x 8, 95.; 9 x 8, 9 s. 6d.; 10x8, 10s. (id.;
12 xB, 12s. 6d.; 12 x 10, 15s. Newton & Lamp.
Furniture Warehousemen, Spring and O'Connell
Streets.
EASY CHAIRS for Parlour, Library or Bed-
rooms. New Designs covered to order in
any material. Newton & Lamb.
SELF-ADJUSTING CHAIR and COUCH,
for Invalids and Medical Men.
ROOKING EASY CHAIRS, elegant ami
restful—a speciality. Newton & Lamb.
t
MERIOAN PATEN'I
SHUT ur
CLOTHES DRYER.
135 feet of hanging spaee.
Very Cheat.
NEWTON and LAMB.
t
0 ANYAS FOLDING
CHAIRS.
Substantial and Light.
Suitable for Shipboard and
Verandah.
NEWTON and LAMIi
Furniture Warehousemen,
Spuing and O'Connell Streets.
(N ARTDEN SEATS, 6ft. long, Rustic Cast-iron
Jf Standards, 14s. 6d., 195., 255., 325. 6d.
Newton and Lamb.
BRAND AH CHAIRS.
INDIAN LONG ARM LOUNGES.
V
13 ATT AN VERANDAH LOUNGES, from
ish. ; and largo variety of Chairs, from
10s 6d.; special designs, extra quality. Newton
and Lamb, Furniture Warehousemen, Spring and
O’Connell Streets.
N
YW TON AND LAMB.
FURNITURE and PIANOFORTE
’ . • WAREHOUSEMEN,
CABINETMAKERS, UPHOLSTERERS
AND
BEDDING MANUFACTURERS.
Show
SPRING a
Rooms and Manuk aoxokv ;
vm> U CON N ELL STREET‘S.
The Referee.
Mammon v. Muscle.
O’Connor, the Canadian sculler, just now paying
a visit to Melbourne, is not by any means satisfied
with his prospects of a match. He is willing to
row Australia’s best man for the championship
and £2OO a side, and, so far, has received no
response, except from sculler Stansbury, who
(having behind him a wealthy “ push ” who think
they can make money out of him) affixes his name
to a letter in which he reiterates his desire to row
O’Connor for £5OO a side. Stansbury not being
the present holder of the championship, of course
nothing is said about that title. The whole affair
could be very easily settled were there in Aus-
tralia a proper manly rowing tribunal, for there
are at present jnot more than, say, four bona-fide
aspirants in N.S. Wales to championship honours,
namely, Kemp, Stansbury, M'Lean, and (say)
Brown, and as the two former are in the same
“stable," the matter would be considerably
simplified were its chosen representative to row
M'Lean, last Friday’s winner, and the victor
then to accommodate O’Connor without further
delav in a match for the championship and a
moderate stake. Such an expeditious method
of administering fair-play would not suit the
bookmaking, whisky - selling, steamer - hiring,
string-tweaking crowd in whose dingy hands at
present lie the management of Australia things
aquatic. It would too speedily kill the goose that
lays the golden eggs—they want to keep the
public excitement at fever-heat, to match M'Lean
v. Matterson, Kemp v. Matterson, M'Lean v.
Kemp, Kemp v. Stansbury, and Stansbury v.
M'Lean, ere they will allow the stranger a chance
to show a cornstalk the way down the Parra-
matta river for the championship. The
Sydney “talent” give a lot away when they
acknowledge that their chief objection to
rowing for a small stake is that the loser
might then make a hundred or two _ out of
the steamers. We don’t know that it is parti-
cularly desirable that the loser in any athletic
contest should be absolutely beggared by
failure, especially when he may be a
visitor from a distant country, and we feel
sure that the objection to row for a small sum
must be fatal to the chances of poor, honest,
and independent competitors, who refuse to be
taken in hand by a gambling clique, and who,
rowing not only for money but for glory, prefer
to be free to row whom they chose, when they
chose and how they chose. How long is this game
of bluff to go on? “£2OO aside isn't enough to
row for! ” bellows one gaffer. 1 hat is con-
ceded. make the stakes £5OO aside, and then Moses
Aarons will squeak out—"Shelp me, Slider don’t
enter his boat while he is in my stable unless
the stakes are £5000.” Where are we going to
stop, and where will this sort of thing land us?
It will end in ruining sculling here as it did in
England, and has lately done in merica,
and if the Rowing Associations would prevent
such a (to them, anyhow) direful calamity the
sooner they step forward and assume a dictator-
ship, akin to that of the big jockey-clubs,
in matters relating to the championship as in in-
tercolonial matches the better. O Connor has
come here to row our best men ; ere this he should
have been matched for a modest stake against
M’Lean and the best of the Kemp-Stansbury
pair. To allow him to be put off with big stakes
and bluffed in other ways is to play the game of
Shark, Swizzle, Steamer and Co. If O’Connor,
who has come to try and win the championship, is
forced to leave Australia without a race by the
dodgery of a set of fat publicans and their gangs,
then The Bulletin for one will be ready to
acknowledge that he bears the championship
away with him.
*.
According to “ Mr. John Deeble ’’—whoever he
may be - unless O’Connor chooses to pull Stansbury for
£6OO aside he “had better go back to America!” We
presume that Mr. John Deeble occasionally stands up and
blathers about “the national honour” at sculling
feeds. Will it be nationally honourable if we
send O'Connor back because he happens not to
possess £soo—because he does not happen to have be-
hind him any wealthy bookmakers or gilded liquor-dealers
arrogant in the weight of their money-bags? Is the
champion of the sculhng-course to be merely the humble
and obedient vassal of Ikev Moses, the impudent gam-
hling-smarty, or of the half-score of whisky-vendors who
make fortunes out of the idiots who hang round corner
pubs, gassing about a sport which, so far as they are con-
cerned, merely affords a medium for losing their money?
The insolent brag of the rowing-gaffers and steamer-men
is disgusting.
# * #
The Matterson-M'Lean race took place over the
Parramatta champion course on Friday last in most suit-
able weather. The rowers had a strong ebb-tide under
them, the sky was cloudy, the breeze cool and light, and
vet the time—22min. ISJsecs.—would not have been ac-
counted good under far less favourable conditions, and the
race was very dear at 10s. Going up the river Matterson
was a strong favourite at 5 to 2 and 3 to 1 on, and little
betting was indulged in. As Matterson was rowing about
121 b. under his usual weight, and had been suffering
froni boils and toothache, while M'Lean was reported to
he “fit to row for a kingdom,” and was, moreover, a
strong “ waterman's tip,” it was evident that Matterson’s
favouritism was chiefly due to three causes first,
his defeat of Stansbury at Brisbane; second, his
ejose relationship with the late champion; thirdly and
chiefly to the weight of money—an effect of the two first-
namecl causes on public opinion-behind him. When the
men rowed round the steamer a great difference in phy-
sique was at once apparent. M'Lean, a man of thirty-one—
apparently hot-summers, for he is burnt black as
thunder, has a good chest, strong back and loins, is well-
ribbed up, and weighed 161 b. more than his fair-skinned,
flve-years-younger, effeminate-looking antagonist, who
pulled down the scale at 10st. 81b., and whose only strong
point, physically, is his legs. Starting by mutual consent,
Matterson (much the better-boated of the two) caught the
water first, and before they had gone 50 yards was half a
length ahead ; there the other held him, and then, pull-
ing 6 a slightly slower stroke, inch by inch drew up even
and before half a mile had been travelled had the race in
hand. Matterson, rowing in a lifeless, dead-man fashion,
gradually dropped further in the rear. Passing GUades-
ville, M‘Lean ceased pulling and removed his cap in
answer to the cheers of the crowd, and repeated the
performance at One Man wharf, spurting in answer to
calls for “a good go,” and finally rowed home apparently
the easiest of winners by nearly two hundred yards. The
best man, though not the best water-man, undoubtedly
won, but Matterson, who rowed what was seemingly the
worst race of his life, ordinarily would have given the
winner much more trouble. The party behind M’Lean
think they have got a world-beater, and make no secret
of their certainty in the matter, but at his age, with his
clumsy, tied-up style as a handicap to his grand physique,
The Bulletin is inclined to think that should the
obstinate-looking O’Connor meet no more skilled opponent
than M'Lean, the championship will go to Canada.
# * #
The betting on the English University boat-
race was unusually checkered this year. One day the
riverside touts seem to have sworn by Oxford, and the
next day they were prepared to put their boots on
Cambridge. For the first time within modern memory
the race was fixed for other than a Saturday. Some ten
years ago they rowed on a Monday, only because a dense
fog hung over the Thames two days before.
* * *
Oarsman O’Connor “never touches it,” more-
over, he never smokes, likewise he hasn’t got much to say
—his mate Mulligan, however, makes up for all the
champion’s deficiencies in the yabber-line. If anyone
should from these circumstances take the O’Connor for a
milk-sop or a fool, he’d get egregiously left. He is a harcl-
headed, high-cheek-boned person, who keeps his eyes and
ears uncommonly wide-open, and takes mighty good care
not to put his foot where he can’t draw it back.
# # *
Battger, the N.Z. amateur hurdler, was said to
have gone 120 yards, over ten 3ft. 6in. jumps, in 15 3-sth
secs., but measurement showed the hurdles to be of vary-
iDghelght - * * - *
According to an English paper there are no
bookmakers left in that country, that is, round bettors
who want to lay everything in a race. Nowadays there is
more difficulty in tracking a horse to win £30,000 than
existed years ago in doing a commission for five times as
much.
# #
The Victorian Racing Club only gave £3OOO
added money in 1864, and in 1890 it is £40,000. The
turf goes ahead even faster than the country. We gamble
harder than we work.
* * *
Dunn came near knocking Sandall out in the
first round at Foley’s the other evening. With a little
more condition, he w ould give the best amateurs a lot of
trouble.


THE EQUITABLE LIFE ASSURANCE
Society of the United States.
ASSETS £21,800,000
ASS UAL IXCOME .. .. £0,250,000
SURPLUS M,600,000
The Equitable’s record for the year 1889 in
every_poii.it of view presents the most extraordinary
exhibit in the history of life assurance. It sur-
passes that of every other Life Company extant.
Some idea may be formed of the magnitude of
the invested funds of the Equitable Life Assur-
ance Society from the fact that they exceed the
combined funds of the eleven Australian Life
Companies, as given in the January number of
“The Australasian Insurance and flanking Re-
cord,” by more than £7,250,000 sterling.
Australian Brandies.
It is now about six years since the Equitable
Life Assurance Society of the United States com-
menced business in Australia, and during this
period it has issued in Australasian larger amount
of Assurance than any other Life Office has done
in the Australian colonies during the first six
years or Its existence in these colonies.
The establish uent’here of the Equitable Life
Assurance Society marks an epoch in the practice
of Life Assurance in these colonies, and has been
the means of introducing many reforms in the
practice of the Australian Life Offices.
The confidence and patronage of the public are
the more gratifying when it is borne in mind that
from the advent of the Equitable in Australia the
managers of some of the local offices have, in a
spirit much to be deprecated amongst Life Assur-
ance Companies, adopted a tone of hostility
towards the Equitable.
Reforms.
The Equitable has ever been foremost in intro-
ducing and adopting reforms tending to the
security, comfort, and convenience of its policy-
holders. Founded under a most strict and severe
form of Government supervision, it has, neverthe-
less, from time to time invited the most searching
investigation by independent actuaries and valua-
tors unconnected with the staff of the society ;
and such examinations have greatly assisted the
Equitable in prosecuting its business, as its great
financial strength has been thereby authoritatively
established. The go >d management of the Equit-
able, no less than its strength, is conclusively
shown by the fact that its assets exceed its liabili-
ties by more than 27 per cent.
Protection of Policy Holders.
The Equitable Life Assurance Society has ad
vocated, and will at any time welcome any fair
and uniform legislation in Australia WHICH
WILL EFFECTUALLY PROTECT THE
INTERESTS 'OF ALL POLICY-HOLDERS,
WHETHER THEY ARE ASSURED IN
LOCAL OR FOREIGN OFFICES. Will the
local companies cordially assist in setting up the
strict and uniform standard of valuation which
would be required for this purpose ?
Valuation Standard.
So far, no local office has advocated the compul-
sory use by all companies of a uniform pure
premium standard of valuation, based upon the
Actuaries’ rate of mortality and 4 percent, rate
of intern t. Without some such uniform standard
it would be impossible to determine the sufficiency
of the assets held by any company to meet its
liabilities.
Unequalled Strength.
The Equitable Life Assurance Society of the
United States has more assurance in force than
any other Life Company in the world. It transacts
more new business. It has a larger surplus,
measured by the strictest t tandard of valuation.
Its organisation in Australia gives to the assured
all the advantages of a local Office, and, what is
more, the security afforded by the strongest Life
()ffice in the world.
Sydney Branch :
PITT, HUNTEiI and O’CONNELL STREETS.
Local Directors :
Chairman, Hon, JAMES WATSON, .M.L.C.
lion. HENRY MORT, M.L.C.
Hon. C. K. MACKELLAR, M. 8., M.L.C., Medical Director,
lion. WILLIAM MCMILLAN, M.L.A.
C. GODFREY KNIGHT, F.1.A., R. HOPE ATKINSON
Actuary for Australasia. Manager.
NorfcTiT
AN A WINDY DAY.
' I By the Author of “ Her Own Sister,” &.e.,
Is continued in
DAMIIA HERALD BAR T for FEBRUARY,
.I 1 which .contains also the continuation of
SLANDERED MEMORY,
t NEW NOVEL,
ii. By the Author of “Tin* Bailiff’s Daughter, ”&c.
Also, complete Stories, Essays, Answers to
Correspondents, Cookery, Miscellanea, Enigmas,
Charades, Riddles, &e.
OAMILY HERALD PART for FEBRUARY,
i 1 The Avstiialasian says
“This favourite domestic magazine retains all
its old interest and variety.”
The
TIAMILY HERALD may be had in Half-yearly
-C Volumes and in Monthly Parts of all Colonial
Booksellers and Newsagents ; or the Monthly Part
direct from W. Stevens, 421 Strand, London,
England, for 14s. per annum, post free.
London: W. Stevens, 421 Strand; and at all
News vendors.
= T , to.e JLmEL- test ZOLase !
— %
YOl’R NAME neatly printed on Twenty (20) Beautiful
Embossed VISITING CARDS, comprising Floral
Landscape, Sea View, Bird and Love-Motto Designs. No
two alike. ALL FOB SIXPENCE in Stamps,-postage
paid. Agents wanted. Samples free. Address
Austral Card and Novelty Co.,
14 Hunter Street, SYDNEY.
/COUNTRY STOREKEEPERS, ETC.
Should write or call upon
A. M. MARKS & CO.,
—lmporters of—
Furniture, Pianofortes, Glass, Earthenware,
CHINA, FANCY GOODS, ELECTRO PLATE,
t ic: IKK it TOBACCONISTS SIINDKIKS
SOLE AGENTS FOR
Dawn Cigars and Salonica Turkish Cigarettes.
Special Novelties in all Lines for Christmas Trade.
Prices on Application to —
A. BA. Marks & Co.,
Vickery's Buildings, 74a Pitt Streeet, Sydney
AND AT DONDON.
Telephone; No. Or.).
Amusements.
■J* HEA T B E royal
Under the Management of Messrs. Williamson,
Garner and Musgrove.
Lessee, Mr. S. Lazar. Treasurer, Mr. Geo. L. Goodman.
ENORMOUS SUCCESS ! ENORMOUS SUCCESS 1
of the
NEW LONDON DRAMATIC COMPANY
in
Th. o Sil ve r Jb" alls.
Admission— 55., 3s. and Is.
OPERA HOUSE.
(Under the direction of Messrs. MACMAHON.)
Gr;at Attractions for the Easter Hol'days!
FIRST APPEARANCE IN SYDNEY
■ v. —OF—
The Bos'on Ideal Company!
JUST ARRIVED FROM AMERICA
per s.s. Alain da, and engaged hy Mr. F. M. Clark.
POPULAR PRICES.
1%/I~R- MURPHY, who is leaving the colony
' this week, desires to thank Mr. Frank
Smith for his kind offers made through a mutual
friend, but owing to American and European
engagements he must decline them for himself
and wife.
Miscellaneous.
AS Liquidators, Grondona & Company, Limited, offer2l
. casks Tesselated Flooring Tiles, ex Lord Downshire.
AS Liquidators, small shipment choicest selected Ame-
rican Tobaccos, very rarely exported. Grondona &
Company, Limited.
AS Liquidators, well assorted shipment of Bedsteads,
_ French and half tester, immediate sale, to close ac-
counts.
AS Liquidators, Gasaliers, Brackets, Globes, Plumbers'
Materials, large varied assortment, conveniently
sized parcels, for Sale, cheap.
AS Liquidators, Electroplating Materials, 1000 packages
General Merchandise. Grondona & Company
Limited, 04 King-st.
Dr. Edward E. A. Mahony,
Membkii of the
Royal College of Surgeons, England ; Apothecaries'
Company, London ; Rotunda Lying-in Hospital,
Dublin ; La Maternite, Paris ; South London Lying-in
Hospital,
May be Cor b rlteci
AT HIS RESIDENCE.
No. 3 Lancaster Villa, Ocean Street,
WOOLLAHRA,
From 8 to 11 a.m., and from 1 to 3 and
after 0 p.m.
Amusements.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE.
Lessee and Manager Mr. Geo, Kignold.
Doors open at 7 ; commencing 7.40. Carriages at 10.45
LAST NIGHTS ! LAST NIGHTS !
of the New and Original Drama,
Ja clt. My Jac It.
Box Office at Theatre from 10 to 5. Prices as usual.
J. P. Macdonald, Acting-Manager.
QRITERION THEATRE.
Under the Management of Messrs. Brough and Boucioault.
General Manager , .. Mr. Mayne.
Overture at 8 sharp. Carriages at 10. SO.
INSTANTANEOUS and COMPLETE SUCCESS
OF TIIK
ENGLISH COMIC OPERA COMPANY,
- -in
Alfred Cellier’s entirely new Comic Opera,
THE SULTAN OF MOCHA.
The Opera produced under the personal direct ion of
Mr. HENRY BKACY.
Admission—ss., Bs., 2s. and Is.
Box Plan at Nicholson’s. Carriages at 10.30 p.m.
Jok Davis, Business Manager.
T» O N D I A Q UARIUM.
The Most Popular
PICNIC and PLEASURE GROUNDS ok AUSTRALIA.
The Famous Switchback Railway, conveying
Passengers from Cliff to Cliff daily.
Splendid Asphalt Open-Air Skating-Rink Free to Visitors.
Open Daily from 10 a.m to 10 p.m.
Admission, Is.; Children, 6d. Trains to Gate—Fare, 4d
ip H E CYCLORAMA!
THE MOST MARVELLOUS
ART DEVELOPMENT OF THE AGE!
Here one of the world's greatest military struggles is
brought in every detail before the spectator, surrounded
by all the beauties of one of the fairest American land-
scapes.
100 Square Miles within One Building !
Open every Day—lo to 10. BAND DAILY.
FT* H E A T R E ROYAL,
ROCKHAMPTON, QUEENSLAND.
Seating Accommo lation :
( 200, Dress Circle.
200, Stalls.
U0O, Pit.
Stage, 45x50 feet. Scenery and Fittings com-
plete, and every convenience. Sliding Roof for
ventilation.
\7. G. CAPOEN k CO , Lessees.
For Terms and Dates, apply
SABER BROTHERS,
Rockhampton.
GUNTHER’S BRISBANE CAFE,
George Street (below Ilunterst.), Sydney.
L I KEI>. GI’XTHEK, late of the Wheatsheaf Hotel,
1 Casth reagh-st., is desirous of informing his patrons
and the public generally that he has now become pro-
prietor of the BRISBANE CAFE, GEORGE STREET.
These premises are commodious, and every convenience is
obtainable. None hut liquors of the first quality retailed.
Two of Alcock's Prize Billiard Tables provided. Files of
spotting and dramatic papers kept. Special r ecommoda-
ti >n for the theatre al profession.
GJ-rand Pier Z-Zotel, i»<£axiiy.
* t
r
mmm
LATIMER A BROOKE .... Piopi-Mois.
This Hotel has been Re-Furnished throughout. ItSF“ Cuisine and Comfort a Speciality.
ADAM BEDE.
SYDNEY GOLD CUP.
‘>o,ooo at 10.
Run 7th APRIL.
BIRTHDAY CUP.
50,000 at 10.
Run 24 th MAY.
The
Only Fair Way
of
Drawing.
Address; “ ADAM BEDE,” care of H. N. Abbott,
(Owner of United Service Hotel, Auckland Theatre Royal, Abbott's Opera House, Auckland, N.Z.
(Our Only Sydney Address)— POST OFFICE CHAMBERS, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Ask for the
Unequalled
“DAWN” 3d. CIGAR,
Of all
Tobacconists
ţ
ť
Store
AND
Hot ,1
KEEPERS
Wholesale Agents: A. M. MARKS & Co., 74a PITT STREET,
SYDNEY.
/I
DAWSON'S
Sole Agents for Australasia
VAUGHAN, ROGERS & 00.,
(Opposite G.P.0.)
108 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
p
E
R
F
E
C
T
I
O
N
WHISKY
SUB-AGENTS WANTED
m THE
PRINCIPAL CENTRES
THROUGHOUT AUSTRALASIA.
c c.° VoArf &
CASHMERE
"|OUQUET
- t *r\
All the essentials for wide popularity are fully
met in Colgate’s CASHMKRE BOUQUET
Toilet Soap and perfumes, which obtained the
3E3C igJbest Awards
—AT —
London, 18S7; Newcastle, 1887; Ostend, 1888;
together with
Gf»liD MEDAL, PARTS, 1H8».
Unexcelled in Quality and Perfume
DR. SCOTT’S ELECTRIC CORSETS
AND BELTS
are universally approved by leading physicians as
tlie best, safest, and most effectual remedy for
Spinal Complaints, Incipient Consumption, Diar-
rhea, 1 leurisy, I umors, Asthma, Bronchitis,
Epilepsy, Lumbago, Debility, Dropsy, Paralysis.
Loss of Voice, Hysteria, Cutaneous Diseases,
Nervousness, Backaches, Indigestion, Palpitation,
etc., and have cured tome of the most obstinate
and distressing cases after all remedies (so called)
have failed. Illustrated Circular and Price List
of Dr. Scott s Genuine Electric Appliances sent
free to any address on "'■•.’ication.
Pall Mall EleotiiJ Association,
50 Margaret Street, Sydney.
P.O. Box, 221,
[Pleaxe. mention this paper.]
ANTIPOD EAN CLIMATE
MIDWINTER IN JUNE, MIDSUMMER IN DECEMBER,
HAVE THEIR BANE AND ANTIDOTE.
Ihe climate of this Australasian continent of
ours, taken as a whole, is well suited to the Euro-
peans ; it is remarkably healthy, saving such com-
plaints as are not generally fatal in their tenden-
cies, and which in a measure are more or less com-
mon to all climates. Our climate is peculiar in
some respects; it is usually very dry, and subject
in summer to hot winds and periodical droughts,
and in winter to heavy rains. The seasons are the
reverse to those in England December being mid-
summer and June midwinter. But these oondi-
tious of temperature are in a physical sense provo-
cative of nerve troubles from the long spells of dry
weather which merge into a long continuance of
wet. In consequence, among the minor ills which
affect the flesh, we have neuralgia, but the bane
has its antidote, as the experiences which follow,
will show : —Mr. Alf. Hay, of Boomanoomana,
N.S.W., suffered at one time terribly with neu-
ralgia, and was cured by St. Jacobs oil. Second
Officer Wm. H. Hawes, P.M.S.S. “City of New
\ ork,’ says ; “I obtained astonishing relief from
acute neuralgia of the face by using St. Jacobs
oil. Mr. W.. H. Mathieson, the well-known
c 'achbuilder, of Dee-street, Invercargill, N.Z.
says : “ An apprentice of mine was taken ill with
neuralgia, and became delirious. He found relief
from one application of St. Jacobs oil.” Mr.
Wiuiam Malker (Malker, Lemon & Co.). 12
Lonsdale-,street, Melbourne writes: “I suffered
from a severe attack of neuralgia—pain intense
and after two applications of St. Jacobs oil the
piain ceased magically, and has never returned.”
Ihe death rate of the Australasian colonies for
1810 was as follows New Zealand 31.40, Western
Australia 1.3,24, Queensland 13.59, Victoria 13.70,
South Australia 14.85, New South Wales 15.57,
Tasmania 10.12. The mean of the colonies was
34.0], In England and Wales the rate on an
average of 30 years appears to be 22.3.
MASTER MARINER'S OPINION.
The popular Commander of a.s, Iberia writes as
follows to the Adelaide agent of the Waterburv
Watch Co. :
Pacific Steam Navigation Company’s
“ILM.S. Iberia,
Adelaide, 12th March, 1800.
Dear Sir, I beg to state that I have carried
with me during the past two years one of the
short-winding Wateroury watches. It has proved
a mod reliable timekecper, and I find it most useful
at sea, as moving the hands about does not seem
to affect its accuracy.
“ I remain dear sir, yours truly,
Mm. M ADDinovE, Incut. It.N.It., Commander.
“per 1 hos. Kidd.”
NOTE.—
‘•Nought treads so silent as the loot of time."
—Young.
Lose no time in getting a Waterburv.
The Waterbury is a strong, handsome,-service-
able, well-finished wa ch, has nothing to fear from
ridicule, no dread of exposure.—
CAUTION.—If you want coirect time and a
watch which, in event of accident, can be cheaply
repaired, demand the WATER lU'RY WATCH.
All watches manufactured by the Waterbury
Match Co. have the‘word “Materbury” printed
in small fine type upon their dial faces, and also
the interwoven letter WAV. Co.


Business Announcements.
PRIDDY & CO.,
Hats made to Order-
Manufacturer
OF HATS I!
Morley’s Hosiery.
438 George Street, Sydney.
Branch—o7B George Street, Brickfield Hill.
PROBLEMaOF to-day-where can we get good
BOOTS ? —SOLVED AT LAST.
TFS. jEt liE3 IxT o HEX
(The French of years ago)
Can supply Residents here with Boots better made than
ever Boots that must wear well and give satisfaction.
Send your orders then to 82 Oxford Strbet, and be sure
to enclose Sizes and Remittance, when your parcel will be
sent at once by Post, Rail, or Steamer.
Notice Prices for Boots that look well, wear well
and fit well.
Children’s Elastic-sides, 2/-, 2/11, 3/6, 4/-, 4/6, etc | Best
Men’s & Youths’ ditto, 6/0, 6/-, 0/6, 7/6, 8/6, etc. \ Boots
Men’s & Boys’ Bluchers, 2/11, 4/-, 5/-, 0/-, best ever made.
A Line of Stylish Laced Boots for Best Wcar
(Boys’, Youths’ and Men’s Sizes).
Mg” ENGLISH BOOTS for LADIES, CHILDREN, etc ,
Sent as ordered. Lowest Price.
Satisfaction given or Moxky Returned.
Xotc the Address:
ECLIPSE 3BOOX CO.,
83 Oxford Street, SVOM’.I.
E. French, Manager.
j. LUDOWICI & SONS,
Manufacturers and Importers of
Superior Oak-Taimed Leather Belting 1 ,
And every description of
Leather goods for Machine and Engineering Purposes'
Hydraulic
Leathers.
nk
doiiSHty*
Tangye Pump
Leathers.
All o-oods bearing the above Trade Mark are warranted to
give satisfaction, or may be returned at our expense.
Office and Factory: 162 Clarence-St., Sydney,
Between King and Market Streets.
TO ADVERTISERS.
We undertake the advertising of large business
houses —filing every paper advertised in, checking
appearances, and watching the interests of our
clients. We can save you money, time and
anxiety. Write for our pamphlet “How to
Advertise, and Why.” F. T. WIMBLE &CO
Newspaper Advertising Bureau, Basement A.J.S.
Bank, 369,371 & 373 George-st., Sydney. Estimates
given for any number of papers by return mad.
- AUSTRALIAN —
Roller Fleur and Grain Stored,
GRANVILLE, N.S.W.
Sydney Office : - 173 CLARENCE STREET
(near King Street).
Brunton’s Patent Roller Flour
—AWARDED—
The Highest Order of Merit at every Competition,
AND
“Special Recommendation” of the Jurors of the
Melbourne International Centennial Exhibition,
18SS-S9.
fOLEMANE&SOHS
Eucalyptlu
•
1 *
m>
Jil
iPM
if
» '■iUi'fm
Wn
m ■
THE TREE. OF LIFE
rt* SB®-*
Victory Ointments.
Tlic only pure Eucalypte In the World,
AWARDED Gold Medal Adelaide Jubilee
Exhibition. First Prize Great Centennial
Exhibition, Sydney. The only known CURE for
Asthma, Bronchitis, Consumption, Pleurisy,
Colds, Coughs, and all affections of the Chest and
Lungs I also, for Gout, Rheumatism, Sciatica,
Etc. Our VICTORY OINTMENT stands with-
out a rival for Bad Legs, Bad Breasts, Cancers,
Tumours, and skin diseases of all kinds. Also,
manufacturers of the Eucalypte Pills, Eucalypte
Hair Restorer, Eucalypte Soap, and our world-
famed Eucalypte Honey is the best preparation
before the public for young Children and aged
people. Also, makers of the Eucalypte Lozenges
for the Voice. Manufactory— Cootamundha.
Sydney Wholesale Depot—2sl Elizabeth Street
Posted to any part of the Colonies. Sold Every-
where. Beware or Tmttatt'ins.
A pious old N.S.W. dame, Gilhooley by
name, having made a pile, lately stepped off
towards the Golden Shore, leaving £6O in her will
to Father Blank for the purpose of saying masses
for her soul, in case it might be detained in the
sultry zone of Purgatory. All the rest of her pro-
perty was devised to her two married daughters.
One of these received much more than the other,
and the husband of the fortunate one was specially
charged to see that the Dead Masses were duly
said and paid for. Accordingly £lO worth of ser-
vices were said and sung and settled for, and, we
presume, Mrs. Gilhooley’s head was well out of
the oven when the son-in-law who was deputed
to attend to her release discovered that a second
will had been drawn up, and, though the £6O was
mentioned as before, still no stipulation was made
as to whom it should be paid. The chance of
getting level with his mother-in-law, even at Pur-
gatorial distance, was too good for her affectionate
son-in-law to let pass, and so he “shut down”
on his contract, and decided to let the old lady do
her full time or give her janitors “ Tommy Ryan
for it. The priest, being of a confiding nature,
kept on saying the Masses for about two years, by
which time the £6O had been “ cut out,” and Mrs.
Gilhooley should have been one of the front-row
sopranos in the celestial choir. On applying tor
the balance of his money, however he was in-
formed that not a darned cent would be paift. it
the old lady were still in Purgatory, it was very
evident that the Masses were not up to the con-
tract specifications, and, consequently, payment
could not be claimed ; while, on the other hand, if
she were out, all the talk in the world couldn t put
her back again. It was now clear that his ic\ci-
ence had been properly “ had on toast,' and, by
way of righting himself, he placed the whole his-
tory of the case before his bishop. The latter,
finding that none of the “ perks.” were coming to
him and that he wasn’t in the swim at all,
turned round and flatly declared that Dean
Masses could not he said by anticipation, a™ l
consequently all Father Blank’s trouble went for
nothing, so far as he was concerned. IHE Bulle-
tin’s sympathies are entirely with the late Mu.
Gilhooley. ’ .
Ambidextrous men are the exception, ine
nails of the right hand can be trimmed as easily
as the left, by the use of McDonald’s Nail Trimmer.
All chemists. Price one shilling.
i^arons’
[s-chauee Hotel. Sydney.
■ -r - Vt .
v*i
? * •'
1 - *. 1.
r "■
kllMSWwi
*fu / ■ •*. -.rSr
ii
rv
mi ii &
Sfe 1
it
i -
ii
. , ( -4
Adjoining the Sydney Exchange.
(..)
Mining, Financial and General Mercantile Intelligence
Posted several times DAILY in the Bnilaing 1 .
TELEGRAPH, POST and MONEY ORDER OFFICES on the PREMISES.
This Hotel has been thoroughly renovated and re-furnished, and is now unrivalled for comfort
and attention. • , „
Aarons’ Exchange Hotel Co. (Limited), Proprietors.
“ T ESI ES
PLU M.”
1'
THIS brand of Razor is something superior to anything that has ever been offered to the public.
Pure hollow ground, beautiful silver steel, and rings like a bell; set ready for use, and wc
guarantee each Razor for two years. It never reouires grinding, and to gentlemen who shave them
"elves they cannot possibly do better than to try this particular brand.
f gi nK l e Razor, in strong leather case, 10/6; Pair, in beautiful morocco leather case, 21/-
Pricc -J Single Razor, ivory handle, 15/-; Pair Razors, ivory handles, in beautiful case, 30/-
Registered and sent Post Free to any part of the Australian colonies.
SOLF AGENTS: CIFS. A.TG5- &r A.ITKEN, Potosi Hairdressing Saloon.
680- A, 682 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
JONES’ SEWING MACHINES,
for the boot and tailoring trades.
The Best Manufacturing Machines in Existence*
Now Perfected, the New No. 3 and No. 4 Machines on an Entirely new System.
JUST ZG.A.IsriDIIN'GK
KTettlielm, &
AND LEATHER MERCHANTS,
x STREET, x SYDATEY.
Sole Agents for the above for New South Wales and> C&eensland.
<*>
stock:
Farleigh,
TANNERS
16 x YORK
00.,
ALSO Importers of Requisites for (be BOOT MA>
IMPORTED LKAIHKRS, &c. ; and of the follown
... a ... 0’..... Tnolo anrl \lotPM!
the ROOT MANUFACTURING TRADE in all Details, including MACHINERY,
ig Si’k.ciai, Links; reerless Gloss. Safin relish. Nnhian
UhieMitg Vain ers’ Tools and Materials. pfT’ Indents Executed on Favourable Tenns.
Medical.
DR. RICHARDS,
li|s
DOOM
gf^TuriKC
all 1 ' rMIMlill
i=i« RICHARDS >
L-
111UM
m
M
jhATiSR
’• '..v:
■*s‘;
This eminent Specialist, Founder, and Chier
Surgeon of the long-established and favourablj-
known Dispensary that now beais his name, re-
ceived his medical education in the leading college}
and hospitals of Europe. He has devoted a life-
time to the study of
PRIVATE, NERVOUS, AND SKIN
DISEASES.
He has by profound research thoroughly investi-
gated their origin, traced their deadly sources and
insidious dissemination, and ascertained the surest
and safe't methods by which they may bo eradi-
cated, with these widely recognised qualifications
combined with unswerving faithfulness to hi i
patients, he has during his practice, extending
over FORTY YEARS, attained a well-deserved
pre-eminence in their treatment. 11 is practice
embraces diseases which probably cause more un-
happiness than any other class of troubles that
afflict mankind.
YOUNG MEN
vi ho suffer from the results of early follies, trans-
gressions or excesses of more nature ago, bladder
difficulties, a whitish or dark ropy sediment in
the water, accompanied by slight burning or
smarting sensation, Headaches, Drowsiness during
the day, circles round the eyes. Giddiness,
irregularity of the bowels, specks before the eyes,
bashfulness, discontentedness, weakness or pains
in the back, Liver or kidney complaints, dreams,
buzzing noises in the ears and head, pimples, a
fear that something dreadful is about to happen,
weak stomach, yellow or blood-shot eyes, impure
blood, hasty, uncontrollable temper, hackng
cough, who cannot marry, nervousness in society,
wakefulness, palpitation of the heart, general
weakness, and other symptoms which lead to in-
sanity and death, should consult him, for he hat
mastered these difficulties. On receipt of 6d. in
stamps he will send secure from observation in a
plain wrapper, postage
FREE, A LARGE CLOTH-BOUND
BOOK.
Showing plainly how all diseases of the private or
nervous system may be cured thoroughly and per-
manently without unnecessary expence. '1 his
book will prove a valuable companion, and even
though you be perfectly well its general inform-
tion and prescription may assist you in restoring
some poor friend to health even after his case has
been pronounced incurable by his medical at-
tendant.
ONE POUND IS SUFFICIENT TO
SEND
for Remedies necessary for the cure of NER-
VOUS DEBILITY. Should you require medical
treatment, as procrastination is sometimes dan-
gerous, it would be advisable for you to sit don n
quietly in your chamber and write to the doc or.
detailing every experienced symptom. Ho will
on receipt of such a letter, write you, promptly
and courteously, a candid and straightforward
oponion of your case. If you do not think you
understand the case, send for his famous medical
work, the price of which is but sixpence ; enclosed
in the volume will be found a Ist of carefully-pre-
pared questions, which will, in all probability,
assist you materially in describing your ailment.
Dr. Richards uses nothing but the purest remedies,
and never prescribes mercury under any circum-
stances. The moment letters arc carefully per-
used and answered they are destroyed by fire,
and patients may rest assured that their cases
will remain a secret between the doctor and
themselves. Dr. Richards has successfully treated
nearly 25,000 cases since coming to Australia, and
has permission from at least 10,000 persons to
show their written evidence of his success. All
communications should be addressed
Dr. RICHARDS,
■7 Spring Street
(Off Pitt Street North)
SYDNEY
Be sure to mention this paper when writing
CONSULTATION FREE
TWO SCHOOLS OF TRAINING.
Mabel : “Sunday-school teacher says we mustn’t complain of our lot, an'
that if we’re good we’ll get our reward hereafter!
Maud : “Mother says if I ain’t good she’ll break every bone in my body.”— Ex.


Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
The other day, it is said, a N.S.W. Wes-
leyan clergyman incurred the displeasure of a
well-gilded squatter by condoling with a man at
variance with the latter. Whereupon the squatter
wrote down to the Wesleyan Conference then
sitting, and said he would withdraw a handsome
annual donation he was in the habit of giving to
the local church unless the parson were removed.
I he poor parson has been removed.
Use Batho’s Baking. Powder.,
CAUTION.
LOOK OUT FOR FRAUDS.
Owing to the success of Dr. Soule’s
American: Hop Bitters in curing ;ill diseases
of the Liver, Stomach, Bowels, Blood, Kid-
neys and Urinary Organs, Nervousness,
Sleeplessness, and Female Complaints, so
that it has become a standard household
remedy all over the world, and the immense
demand for the original and genuine article,
certain persons are offering for sale various
cheap and spurious preparations under the
name of “Hop Bitters” which do not
contain the medicinal properties found only
in Dr. Soule’s American Hop Bitters.
Take none of the cheap bogus stuff simply
because it is called “Hop Bitters.”
TRUTHS.
Dr. Soule’s American Hop Bitters are the
Purest and Best Bitters ever made.
They are compounded from Hops, Buchu, Man-
drake and Dandelion —the oldest, best, and most
valuable medicines in the world, and contain all the best
and most curative properties of all other bitters, being
the greatest Blood Purifier, Liver Regulator, and
Life and Health Restoring Agent on earth. No disease
or ill health can possibly long exist where these Bitters
are used, so varied and perfect are their operations.
They give new life and vigour to the aged and fnfirm-
To all whose employments cause irregularity of the
bowels or urinary organs, or who require an appetizer
tonic, or mild stimulant, these Bitters are invaluable’
being highly curative, tonic and stimulating, without
Intoxicating.
REMEMBER.
£5OO (Five hundred pounds) will be paid for
any case that Dr. Soule’s American Hop Bitters
will not cure or help.
See that each hottle hears genuine label
hunch of green hops on white paper with
black letters.
None other genuine. Take no other.
Business Announcements.
NOTWITHSTANDING
What other Produce Dealers may say, our
Prim e Oaten CHafF
At 4s. 6d. per Cwt. (Bags in),
IS THE
BEST VALUE H
Ever Offered.
City Produce Company,
STEAM CHAFF-CUTTERS.
hay street, haymarket.
WOOL. WOOL.
THE HEW ZEALAND
Loan & Mercantile Agency
COMPANY. LIMITED.
BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Capital, £4,500,000 ... Reserve, £270,000
Wool Season, 1888-89*
Regular Sales of Wool Held Throughout the
Season.
THE greatest care bestowed on the Valuation and the
Displaying and Protecting all Wools entrusted to
the Company for sale, whether from large or small clips.
Growers Advised and Consulted with before Sales
of their Clips are made.
Liberal Cash Advances, where desired, on Wool lieu
Df Ensuing Clip, and on Wool and other Produce, whether
or sale in Sydney or shipment to London.
Auction Salks of Sheep Skins, Marsupial
Skins, Hides, Tallow, &a, Held Regularly.
Every Information Supplied, on Application.
G. S. CAMPBELL, Manager.
SYDNEY WOOL & GRAIN WAREHOUSES
Bridge and Loftus Streets.
Study your Eyes.
CJPECTACLES of every description to suit all sights
u from Is. to ss. Peebles, ss. to 10s. Gauge for testing
your sight. Price List and a Treatise on “Vision and the
Use of Spectacles,” sent Free.
W. E. TOOSE, Spectacle Maker »V Optician,
418 George Street, Sydney.
ItW°* Awarded Nine Medals at various Exhibitions.
g ATOOMB A FA MILY HOTEL.
JOSEPH NIMMO.
First-class Accommodation for Tourists and Families.
Wires and Letters to be addressed “Proprietor.”
Arrangements can be made to provide transit for persons
wishing to view the celsbrated .leuohui Caves and
other places of interest
Selina Davis, convicted of abandoning an
infant in Melbourne, has been sentenced to three
years’ hard labour with terms of solitary confine-
ment! Why not alsoto floggings, Judge Williams?
This is the sort of bill the Salvation Army
sends in (fraudulently enclosed contrary to postal
regulations, in a newspaper) :
Your War Cry subscription is now two and sixpence
overdue.
Yours in God,
Captain. Blank.
If that two and six is not forthcoming, the devil
js given a turn as debt-collector.-'
Use Batho’k Baking Powder.
Business Announcements,
in
i
K
ei
T
/Uents .
DELISSAk PHILLIPS
3s.J Barrack Street.
m
i
H. R. Leach,
SUCCESSOR TO
fiL B. MODINI, Gunmakcr, informs his Customers
" and the Public in general that he has the largest
assortment of Firearms in the colony. . Qualities and prices
to defy competition. Guns by the following celebrated
gunmakers: — J. Purdey & Sons. Oh. Boswell John Rigby
and Co., Joseph Lang & Sons, Oh. Osborne & Co., Thomas
Bland & Son. A large assortment of various other makers
always on hand, viz., W. W. Greener, Scott, Webley
Hollis & Sons, Riley and Cashmorb. All goods will be
faithfully guaranteed a,t 602 George-street, Sydney.
Price list on application.
JJDATIN G GOERTZ,
Stock and Share Broker,
AGEIsTT,
BRISBANE.
Member of the Brisbane Stock Exchange.
ISTORY OF BOTANY BAY.
PRICE-ONE SHILLING.
The Bulletin’s never-to-be-forgotten Miss
Smith, who used to while away the weary years
in harmless intrigues, having for their sole pur-
pose the publication of an announcement in the
newspapers that she looked nice as usual’’ —
either that immortal Miss Smith or her namesake'
got married at South Yarra (Melb.) on the 12th
inst. We find that “the bride wore a lovely
gown, with the usual bridal wreath,” and that old
familiar word almost persuades us of the identity
of tins Miss Smith with the other Miss Smith,
in which ease she. has probably “ looked nice " for
the very last time. May she be happy ! It’s not
likely she will.
Shipping.
TTNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF NEW
w ZEALAND, Limited.
, SAN FRANCISCO ROYAL MAIL SERVICE.
OVERLAND ROUTE TO ENGLAND VIA SAN
FRANCISCO AND NEW YORK,
Calling at
AUCKLAND and HONOLULU,
Avoiding alike the heat of the Red Sea and the cold
of Cape Horn.
Under Contract with the Postmasters-General of New
South Wales and New Zealand, the steamers of this line
are appointed to leave Sydney and Auckland for Honolulu
and San Francisco every 4th Wednesday, sailingasunder:—
ŧ
Each steamer carries a duly qualified surgeon.
These steamers are fitted with Electric Light and with a
Refrigerating Chamber for ship provisions, insuring a
plentiful supply of ice throughout the voyage.
Passehgers are booked to San Francisco or through to
European destinations and have at San Francisco choice of
the unrivalled Atlantic Steamship Cinqs of the Cunard,
Inman, White Star, and other companies.
All first-class passengers are allowed 3501 b. of baggage
to San Francisco and 2501 b. “Overland ” free of charge
THROUGH FARE TO LIVERPOOL. ° ’
FIRST-CLASS £O3 to £66.
Time-cards, railway maps, and gu de books, showing all
routes to any point in the United States, may be had on
application
ior rates of passage and freight and all other informa-
tion apply at the Company’s Offices, 15 Bridge-street.
FREDK. W. JACKSON, Manager.
SERVICE TO ENGLAND.
PENINSULAR AND ORIENTAL STEAM
NAVIGATION COMPANY.
The Company’s Royal Mail Steamships (under contract
with the Imperial, New South Wales, Victorian, and South
overnmen t s ) will be dispatched from their
Wharf, Circular Quay, as under, for LONDON, calling at
Melbourne, Adelaide, Albany, Colombo, Aden, Brindisi,
Malta, Gibraltar, and Plymouth.
03 >i
0)73
v a
Steamers
Commander
a «
•a 2<
i-l
i-l-C
Britannia ..
Carthage ..
Victoria ..
Valetta
Ballaarat ..
6257 J. Orman .. .. April 14 April 19 Ap. 23
5013[W. A. Wheler .. jMay 5 [May 10 (Mayl4
6268,G. F. Cates .. May 19 May 24 |May2B
June 2 [June 7 IJun.ll
June 16 June 2FJun.2o
June 30 July 5! July 9
4919 R. F. Briscoe
4748 E Ashdown
Parramatta J4771i R. G. Murray
And henceforth every alternate week.
RESERVED CABINS ON MODERATE TERMS
SALOON PASSENGERS MAY BREAK THEIR JOURNEY
1 he arrangements for SECOND SALOON PASSENGERS
having been thoroughly re-organised, the accommodation
now offered is unsurpassed. Passage-money can lie paid
here for passages from England. Liberal concessions made
to families. Passengers, cargo, and parcels are booked
through to India, China, and Japan. Cargo and parcels
will not be received after 3 p.m. on the day previous to
“=• aII information apply at the Company’s
Offices, 247 George-street. A. MACLEAN Acting Agent.
Business Announcements.
ALLAN A, MARSHALL & CO.,
Engineers, Coppersmiths, Brass and Bell Founders
Finishers, Plumbers, Ship & General Smiths,
Gasfitters, Art & Medieval Metal Worker
ROLLEK SKATES (any make) with KICASS or WOODEN WHEELS.
Verity’s Gas Fires, Heaters and Ventilators at greatly Reduced Prices-11,000 Fires already in use
Importers and Manufacturers of Diving Gear, Yacht and Boat Work of every descr Sin
Iron or Brass, Ships’ Single and Double Action Valve Closets, Fire Hydrants, Hose and all appliances
Bon Accord Works, 9 Macquarie Place, Sydney.
HIUHLY IMIiTKITJVt
MAY bt OBTAINED IN LABtLlfclJ HNS UK PACKETS!HHUUUHOU LTHE COLONY.
COMMERCIAL TRAVELLERS, TOURISTS, &o.
o———
ROYAL HOTEL, LITHGOW,
The leading resort for
Commercial Travellers, and Tourists.
The Largest Sample Rooms on the Western Line. Horses and Busies for Hire.
Nothin r/ but the Best Brands of spirits sold over the bar, '
Hugh Wallace, Proprietor. Late of Wallerawang-.
HORDERN,
TAILOR,
207 Pitt Street.
Shipping.
JJ UDDART, PARKER and COJs LINE
STEAM TO MELBOURNE AND
TASMANIA.
FROM HUDDART, PARKER’S WHARF :
FOR MELBOURNE WHARF DIRECT—
ELINGAMITE ! 4000 tons | Thursday, April 3, 5 p.m.
FOR LAUNCESTON, VIA MELBOURNE—
transhipping to S.S. NEWCASTLE.
ELINGAMITE | 4000 tons | Thursday, April 3, 5 p.m.
These magnificent Steamships have already established
a reputation for their accommodation, and their large size
insures passengers a maximum of comfort. The SALOON
CABINS are light and airy and very roomy. FORE-
CABIN is on main deck, lofty and well ventilated. Com-
plete sanitation and lavatories. ELECTRIC LIGHTING
throughout the ships. Inspection invited on days of
sailing.
RETURN TICKETS AVAILABLE FOR SIX MONTHS.
For rates of Freight and Passage-money apply
HUDDART, PARKER & CO., Limited.
Offices and Wharf—Foot of Margaret-street.
JJ UDD ART, PARKER & CO.’S LINE.
STEAM TO MELBOURNE and TASMANIA.
Prom Huddart, Parker’s Wharf.
For Time and Date of Sailing, see daily papers.
The magnificent steamships, BURRUMBEET ana
ELINGAMITE, have established an unrivalled reputation
for their speed and accommodation, and their large size
ensures passengers a maximum of comfort, -The saloon
cabins are light, airy and very roomy. The dining saloon
is full width of the ships, also magnificent music room,
with gentlemen’s smoking room and splendid promenade
deck. Fore-cabin is on the main deck—lofty and well-
ventilated, perfect sanitation and ample lavatories. Fore-
cabin passengers provided with victuals and rugs. Inspec-
tion invited on days of sailing!
Return Tickets available for Six Months.
For Fares and Freights apply A
IK »DART, PARKER A ( «. (limited).
Office and Wharf: Foot of Margaret Street, Sydney.
NORDDEUTSCHER LLOYD.
IMPERIAL GERMAN MAIL.
Passengers are carried according to the requirements of
the English Passenger Acts of 1885 and 1863.
MONTHLY LINE OP DIRECT STEAMERS
from
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, and ADELAIDE,
to, SOUTHAMPTON, ANTWERP, and BREMEN, via '
COLOMBO, Aden, Suez, and Genoa,
taking passengers for London,
connecting from PORT SAID by DIRECT MAIL and
PASSENGER LINE to BRINDISI,
will be despatched as follows (if practicable)
Steamer.
! Leave ( Leave Leav e
Commander/ Sydney! Mel 'Adelaide
j noon, bourne. p ~
1890 I 1890 I 1890
Kaiser Wil-
helm 11. L. Stormer I April 19| April 27 'April , 20'
Hohenstaufen |F. Kessler ./May 21 (May 24 May 20
And thereafter every four weeks.
PASSAGE MONEY from SYDNEY,
£l4 to £57 10s.
RETURN TICKETS, available for NINE and TWELVE
MONTHS, at REDUCED RATES.
Passengers and Cargo are booked through to New York,
via Southampton.
Special facilities are afforded for bringing out relatives
and friends from the Uiiited Kingdom and Europe by pre-
payment of the passage money in Australia.
For FREIGHT, PASSAGE, and all further particulars
apply to FREDK. BETZ & CO., Agents, 5 O’Connell-street,
COMPAGNIE DES MESSAGERIES MARI-
TIMES.
SYDNEY to LONDON.
OVERLAND FROM MARSEILLES via PARIS.
Steamers under postal contract with the Government of
France, calling at MELBOURNE ADELAIDE KING
GEORGE’S SOUND, MAHE, SUEZ,, and PORT SAID
Passengers booked to KUIIRACHEE, BOMBAY
MAURITIUS, and EAST COAST of AFRICA. • . ’
The service is carried on by powerful steamers of 4000
tons and 3000 effective h.p., built expressly for the Aus-
tralian and New Caledonian line, which will be despatched
as follows:
And thenceforward on the 25th of each month.
Kates of passage-money to Marseilles from £2O to £65,
including table wines and Suez Canal dues on passengers.
RETURN TICKETS issued at the following rates
English interpreters meet through passengers for
London on arrival of steamers at Marseilles, and accom-
pany them to Paris and Calais. N.B.— Passengers’ luggage
conveyed free of cost from Marseilles to London. For
freight, passage, and further particulars apply at the
Company’s Office, 15 Macquarie-place.
A. CONIL, Principal Agent.
JOHN BEIDGE, & 0 0.,
CIRCULAR QUAY, SUSSEX STREET, As
DARLING HARBOUR,
WOOL BROKERS,
Hides, Tailoiv, Sheepskins, Kangaroo , Bear and
Opossum Skins, <Cr.
auctioVeebs.
ORA.IKT SA.LESME3XT,


READ THIS ! Two Pounds’ (£2) worth of these preparations sent free to any part of the colony.
Armstrong’s Citron Saline, for cooling and purifying the
blood. An apenent effervescing salt. 2s; 18s doz.
Armstrong’s Blood Purifier or Anti-Scorbutic-a valuable
remedy where the blood has become vitiated through
residence in hot climates, with usual consequences of
bad water, deficient vegetable diet. 2s; 18s doz.
Armstrong's Compound Sarsaparilla withDandel.on, lodide
of Potash, &c., for all impu rit it sof the blood. 2s; 20sdoz.
Armstrong’s Eye Lotion for Blight and other inflammatory-
affections of the eyes. The proprietor has received
numerous testimonials for cures effected by this lotion
when all other means had failed. Is; 8s doz.
Armstrong’s Sugar-coated Anti-bilious Pills. An infallible
remedy in cases of indigestion and other complaints
arising from an inactive liver. Is; 8s doz.
Armstrong’s Diarrhoea Mixtures gives instant relief in this
troublesome complaint. 2s; 18s doz.
Armstrong’s Cough Elixir. An immediate cure for colds,
coughs, influenza, &c. 2s; 18s doz.
Armstrong’s I’odophyllin Pills, for liver complaints, im-
purities of the blood, &c. Is; 8s doz.
Armstrong’s Phosphorous Pills, for Nervous and General
Debility, &c. Is; 8s doz. .
Armstrong’s Anodyne Liniment (or Pain Paint) for biuises,
sprains, rheumatic pains, &e. 2s; 18s doz.
Armstrong’s Gough Balsam, for chronic pulmonary altcc-
tions and lung diseases. 2s; 18s doz.
Armstrong’s Golden Eye Ointment, for blight and all
diseases of the eyes. Is (id; 13s doz.
Armstrong’s celebrated Ointment for Piles. 2s,
18s doz. ... „ ~,
Armstrong’s Iron and Quinine Tome, for loss of appetite,
Nervousness, General Debility, Neuralgia, &c. 2s.
Armstrong’s Pepsine Bismuth and Nu\ lotnioa, for
chronic incßgcstlon. 3« fid & 6s6d; 80s & 58s doz.
Armstrong’s Quinine Wine. A most reliable brain and
nerve tonic. 2s 0d; 20s doz, .... ,
Armstrong’s PodOpbylliu. Seidlilz Powders. A mild and
pleasant aperient. Is tid; 15s doz.
Armstrong’s “ Arabian Ointment.” lor healing all sores,
old wounds, burns, etc. (in pots). Is; 8s doz.
Armstrong's Corn Paint and Solvent, for painlessly
removing corns, bunions, warts, dire. Is; 8s doz.
Armstrong’s Toothache Drops and Carbolic Nervine, for
immediate cure of toothache. Is; 8s doz.
Armstrong’s Resin, Ccivbolie, Zinc, L»lue, White and Ked
Percipitate Ointments (in boxes), (id ;5s doz.
Armstrong’s Dandruff Pomade, for eradicating scurf, dan-
druff, &c., from the hair. Is ;8s doz.
Armstrong's Arabian Hair tlenewer, for restoring giey
hair to its natural colour. Is tid; 12s doz.
Armstrong's Indelible Ink, for writing on linen, silk, amt
muslin. Is; 8s per <]oz.
Armstrong’s Lime Juice and Glycerine. A valuable
preparation for the hair. Is &2s; 8s & 18s doz.
Armstrong’s Transparent Cement (Cohesuline) for china,
glass, wood, leather, &c. 6d <& Is ; 5s &8s doz.
Armstrong’s Carbolic Tooth Powder antiseptic. Is; 8s doz.
Armstrong’s Disinfectant, Carbolised Powder (in tins),
for drains, etc. 9d &IsGd ; Cs 6d & 12s doz.
Armstrong’s Sore Back Ointment for horses. 2s; & 18s doz.
Armstrong’s Carbolic Dressing, for cuts and wounds
among stock. Is &IsCd ; 8s & 15s doz.
Armstrong’s Blistering Ointment - the best remedy tor
splints, curbs, etc. Is Gd ; 18s doz.
Armstrong’s Gold Paint, Copper, Silver and Green Bronzes
for decorating your home ornaments, statuary, ace.,--
all ready mixed. i)d ;Ss doz.
CU IVE S 'll!* IE 1 !. C* IST <t3r, George Street North (Near Circular Quay) SYDNEY.
Supports,” iAkt.c Stock, sk ItaM® at «».*» Whouraauk Coat. “ *•»
DRUGS, CHEMICALS, PATENT —— *
Invent 3d, Manufactured and Sold Only by
o Vvi'P n.ua i?qvi at tfvr r isH WHOLESALE UOST. J HC. JjCtvgcsi nco( A in oya ■mg,
SimD&.IEND FOR SPECIAL PRICE LIST (POSTED FREE).
Notice to Artistic and Literary Contributors
Strictly Orioinal utalter contributed to The Bulletin
■will ho paid for. The Editor will be glad to receive and
consider contributions as under :
I. Original humorous or political matter, illustrated or
otherwise. ( Drawings m ust be made in clean lines
of Indian ink on white paper or Bristol-board.)
» Vi,published anecdotes of living celebrities, or people
who ought to be celebrated,
ft. Humorous poems (from eight to forty-eight lines pre-
ferred.
h. Serious poems, of similar or greater length, especially
those suitable for pictorial illustration.
Short Australian or other stories, up to, say, 3000
words. About half that length, or even less, will
be preferred.
All Contributions must be Written Legibly, on One
Side Only of the paper, and folded, not rolled. 'I he
name and address of the writer must appear, in all
eases, on the MS. itself, andnot merely on an accompany-
ing letter or paper. The Proprietors do not hold them-
wires responsible for Rejected Contributions; but, ij
accompanied by a stamped and addressed envelope or
wrapper, every effort will be made to return them.
The Editor does not undertake to enter into any
corresjioudence respecting rejected Manuscripts.
‘ T.M.T.
“ Home for the Aged Poor,
“ Park field-avenue, Birkenhead.
“The Little Sisters of the Poor hasm much
pleasure in bearing their testimony as to the
efficacy of Allcock's Porous Plasters. They have
seen great benefit derived from them on account
if the relief they so quickly give the sufferer,
pliev find them a very soothing remedy for all
sorts of p*ins.- Dec. 24, 1888.”
The Hkv. Mark <luv Pkarsk says:— i hnd
, hem a very breastplate against colds and coughs."
Mrs. Henry Ward Beecher (widow of the
celebrated preacher) says : —“ I have found them
a centime relief for most of the aches and pains
which flesh is heir to.”
(iEORGE Acivrus Sala says, referring to an
attack of bronchitis and asthma he had;—“One
on the- chest and another between the shoulder
blades soon set me right again."
JZI. Marvellous Remedy.
The appr nrd External Remedy of the age.
Ahhf'JCa'S POROUS PL\STEKS.
Lumbago, Sciatica, Rheumatism, Bronchitis,
Asthma, and all affections of the throat and
JungsV also in Pains, Sprains, and Strains of
every description, and of great efficacy in IsDI-
GESTION, if wt rn over the right side of the pit of
the stomach, changing them every ten days.
A Word of Caution.
When you ask for a Porous Plaster, see you get
AILCOCK’S ; LET NO EXPLANATION OR SOLICITATION
INDUCE YOU TO ACCEPT A SUBSTITUTE.
Sold by all Chemists, in various sizes, from 1/1 i
to 22/6. ‘
Companies.
Tli<- iiriti-.il and Xnv South Wales Investment
and Financial Co„ Limited.
Incorporated under the Companies’ Act, 1874.
Capital, £250,000.
Sydney Office: 246 PITT STREET.
RILLS DISCOUNTED and Immediate Advances granted
1 > Daily. Country communications promptly attended
to. The following Rates of Interest are allowed for Fixed
Deposits:
3 Years .... 10 per cent.
12 Months .... .... 9 per cent.
6 Months .... .... § per cent.
;t Months .... .... 1 P er cer| t-
With a Guaranteed Bonus on Renewals of Twelve Months
and over.
Bv order of the Board.
W. M‘DONALD, Manager.
SMOKE
NOTHING
BUT
PIPES.
t
PIPES.
THE BEST IN THE WORLD.
Wholesale Agents ;
JULIUS GOLDSCHMIDT & CO.,
33t Clarence Street.
First Prize MELBOURNE EXHIBITION.
D. D. Rosewarne, who is to represent
South Australia at the Mining Exhibition, in
England, was formerly a mining-reporter for one
of the Broken Hill papers.
Sir Henry Ayers, President of the S. A.
Legislative Council, at one time made his living
as a musician. The copper discoveries made
Henry, however, and he now bosses the S.A. fossil
Legislators.
When “Jack” Woods, ex-Minister for
Railways (Vic.), was opposed at Stavvell —his
“ pocket borough in 1883 by young Hart, Presi-
dent of the A.N.A., his victory over the youngster
—about the only man who could shake him in his
seat —induced Jack to order all the fizz in the
town (one hundred bottles) to be sent to his com-
mittee room. Three years passed away and
another election drew nigh. Then the editor of
the StawkLl News, a new hand who had heard
nothing of the “ bust,” thought he would do Jack
a good turn and accordingly he referred to him as
“ The hero of a hundred democratic battles.'’ The
intelligent comp., who had been there all the time
and well remembered the fizz, knew better.
He was quite sure “bottles” was meant, and as
“ The hero of a hundred bottles ” did Jack figure
in the editorial columns the next day.
Yefc another story of little Mirams as lie
was in the golden days when everyone save the
Argus believed in James’ Bothschildian capacity.
He had just completed for publication his
pamphlet, undoubtedly clever and conclusive, in
reply to Baden Powell’s Fortnightly article on
“ Protection in Victoria," but his political and
financial duties prevented his seeing it through
the press. Ho asked a journalistic acquaintance
to attend to the matter, and accordingly the work
was put through. Upon its completion, James
delicately queried as to the expected remunerati n.
“ Oh, leave that to you,” was the scribbler’s re-
sponse. “ Ah,” then said the little ’un, “ suppose
I present you with the manuscript ? I think, you
know, it will be worth something by-and-bye!
•And the pitiful part of the, business was that
there was no doubt Mirams did think so. It was
simple vanity and the profoundest belief in him-
self as the “coming man” which prompted the
remark, and not parsimony. And this much has
to be said for Mirams—hundreds of clear-headed
men believed he was “ coming,” too, and
acted more or less parasitically accordingly—till
I the burst came, and then James made the dis-
-1 covery that nobody had ever believed in him.
THE SYDNEY DRIVERS’ PROTECTIVE ASSOCIATION
—AND—
ASSURANCE, FINANCIAL, and GENERAL ESTATE AGENCY.
£lOO 000 ONE HUNDRED THOUSAND POUNDS TO LEND £lOO,OOO
On a ii dasses of Approved Security at Lowest Rates of Interest. Properly released from Budding Societies, <e.
Offices: Exchange Chambers, George and Campbell Streets, Haymarket, Sydney, N.S.W
Newcastle Branch, Bolton Street (J. F. Bandfield'.
This Company is for the Benefit of all Horse Driveis and Proprietors of Horses and Vehicles.
Proorietors Please Note: -This Company is responsible for your horses and vehicles, providing jon*
drivers are subscribers (same as if the said drivers own property).
VETERINARY SURGEON :
William Scott, Esq., M.R.0.V.5., 20 Elizabeth-st., Sydney
COACH BUILDERS :
Chas. Glencross, Esq., Factory, Erskinville-rd., Macdoiv
aldt’n ; Messrs. Woods & Spinks, Factory, Darling-st., Ult*
DOCTORS:
A. C. Brownless, Esq., M.D., 285 Elizabeth-st., Sydney.
J. G. Bouvchier, Esq., M.D., J.P., Redfern-st., Redfern.
DISPENSING CHEMIST:
XI. A. Rose, Esq., M.P.S., 531 George-st., Sydney.
SOLICITOR ;
\V. j. nil), Esq.. 26 Elizabeth-st., Sydney.
BANKERS :
The Australian Joint Stock Bank, Haymarket.
MANAGING DIRECTOR:
Erancis Australia Piper, A., C.E„ Q.S.
Office Hours : 9 a.m. till 12.30., and 2 p.m, till 5 p.m.
Subscribers Claims
on the Company.
1. Have the services of the Company’s Solicitor free
for their defence at the Police Courts when summoned for
breaches of the by-laws of the M.T.C. and S.M.C., and his
special advice in connection with any such cases.
2. In addition to Hie above the Company will lend sub-
scribers money to pay their fines into Court, which they
can arrange to pay off by instalments with ."> p.e. interest.
3. — Are entitled to send their vehicles to the Company’s
coach builders and have any damage, caused by accident,
made good, free to any amount not exceeding Five Pounds
Five Shillings (£5 55.) for each and every accident.
4. Have the attendance of the Company’s Veterinary
Surgeon on their horses, and medicines free. If a horse
dies from natural causes the carcase will be removed ; if
killed by accident Five Pounds Five Shillings ($5 55.) will
be paid for same.
5. A Subscriber is allowed two horses and one vehicle.
Special arrangements made where Subscribers are using
more than two horses.
6. -Have the attendance of the Company s Doctor and
Medicines free. In case of death from natural causes the
deceased shall be buried hy the Company ; if killed by
accident, Ten Pounds Ten Shillings (£lO 10s.) in addition
to funeral expenses. .
7. Subscriber being a married man can, hy paying is.
(Id. extra per month, have the doctor and medicine free
for his wife and children up to 11 years of age, free also.
8. All medicines ordered by Company’s Doctors obtained
free from Company’s Chemist.
Subscriptions.— Entrance Fee, 3s.
advance. If married and require the doctor for
Subscriptions, 2s. 6d. per month, or £1 ss. per annum,
wife and children, Is. lid. per month extra.
payable in
MEDICA-Xj reform.
&
s *<o,
C/'
/
.. a>Q).
£
'e /t^-
Jy^c/sz^/
mHERE exists a crying need for
* the medical profession to stay
the quackery which is so rampant
in these colonies Men having no
medical qualifications nor aptitude
for the treatment of diseases, still
advertise With impunity as doctors;
and guarantee to do what they know
they are incapable of doing, and
thus deceive the public who are
caught by their specious and lying
advertisements, as is amply testified
by reading the exposures in the
Daily Telegraph from August 3
to 11, 1887.
A chief cause of this state of tinngs
is that medical men from mistaken
notions of professional decorum,
and because they consider it infra
dig, refrain from entering the field
against the«e quacks. So long as this prudery exists so long will this canker consume our youth. At the risk, how-
ever of professional opprobrium I have decided to throw aside this false delicacy, and avow my J
readiness £oTreat such affections, in the hope of saving the young of both sexes from the nun of health and nund
which consulting these quacks ensured, not to mention the nun of their pockets. , ,
A natieW writes to me : “ I am in such a miserable state I would pay you what J could afford for a hfetimt, i
von could possibly be the means of letting me know what health is, and perhaps saving me from suicide which seems
r , 1 it ac talk Kindlv and humanelv do not allow it to
to ben'i'v \>n°y release if'twTappea'l fails. and humanely do not allow it to be i n vain, and you will never regret
it I have been victimised by a person calling himself a ‘ doctor.’ My father (of course
. „ mi a ncrficn 75.. all for nothing, for which he said he would
did not let him know the
nature h of mv ? ai'hnentTpaid 'this person £7 7s!, all for nothing for which he said he would guarantee a cure in three
months.” Now, if Sfdaiiv occ
months ” Now if qualified medical men wouia aaverwse in such a way as c. unnsj before these suffeicis,
!>nd convince them of their sympathy, cases like the above which unfortunately arc of daily occurrence, w ould not
occur • groundless fears would not be excited, and where disease exists it would bo safely and permanently cured. I
Z" legal! v and highly mialified practitioiier,’and have for over 20 years devoted especial study to chronic, nkrvocs
and special diseases of men amt women, and I am therefore justified in guaranteeing a cure m all cases amenable to
treatment.
'sufferers from impaired vitality, or nervousness, should read my book on ‘‘Nervous Debility,” free by post- for
ts where they will findniuch useful information and directions for self-cure. Those wishing a favthoi insight should
IS., iMICI J /<■**• ■»_ iii Uonlfli onrl Tlivjpacp frpn
Is where they will find niuen usenii imonihuiuu .mu .. ' , ‘ , , ?vi
read my work on the “ Male Generative Function in Health and Disease, free by post for -s. («d.
Consultation by Letter ... £l.
— X-
Dr.
157
ALEX. PATERSON,
A M., M.D., F.R.C.S., Ed., M.K.C.S., Es«.,
ELIZABETH STREET. SY3DMEY.
Miscellaneous.
JFtejacl This !
A GOLDEN opportunity awaits smart c;
men in all the colonies who are an,\i<
make money vapidly.
Apply at once.
“ AFRICA”
Box 610, G.P.0., SVDN
NOW ACKNOWLEDGED
TH E BEST
IN THE MARKET
M.W.iCS
yy H SSKV
p;
Medical.
HEALTH for the MILLION !
WATSON’S
Mild, Aperient, Antibilloas
Pills, purely vegetable
in their compos:i 'mu
are particularly recommended to either «nc. w.*,.; ..
gentle, but effective aperient is ream red. . lio.-e •
fro invaluable for all complaintsof the Stomach a.;d
Liver, speedily removing sick headache,
indigestion, etc., and cleansing the
blood of all impurities. To Ladies
these pills will be found invaluable.
One trial is sufficient to prove their vast superiority
over all others. Sold by all Chemists and
Price Is. per box. Prepared solely by John son,
Chemist, George Street, Sydney.
PILLS
Book of Nature.
m
m
SIS
S/m
Book o f KT3,txire.
BOOK OF NATURE and Illustrated Matri-
monial Guide.— A full and explicit, explanation
of the structure and uses of the organs of life and genera
lion in man and woman, intended especially for ihe
married, or those intending to marry, and who conscien-
tiously and honestly desire to inform themselves upon the
intent and nature of marriage and its duties, to which is
added a complete MEDICAL TREATISE upon all diseases
of the generative organs, whether resulting from infection
or sexual excesses and abuse, with much other valuable
and highly important information, illustrated with more
than flftv engravings, by M. Lafayette Byrn, M.D. ; price
3/0 post 4/-. The Fruits of Philosophy or Private Com-
panion for Married People, post 1/2. Mrs. Besant’s Law of
Population, 1/-, post 1/2. Wonderful Song Book, extra
l al .ge 1/0. Aristotle, complete, 3/6, post 4/-. Maria Monk,
1/0. post 1/9. New complete. Fortune Teller, 2s. "The
Matron’s Manual or Midwifery,” the hook every married
woman needs ; price 7/-, posted 7/0. "The Male Gene:a-
live Organs,” their use and abuse, with many illustrations
and coloured plates ; price 7/-, posted 7/0. The arts of
Boxhi"-, Swimming and Gymnastics made easy, enabling
anyone to become an expert boxer or athlete, illustrated
with fifty engravings ; price 1/-. “ Marriage as it was, as
it is, and as it should he,” by Mrs. Besant; 1 /-, posted 12.
Dr Foote’s Plain Home Talk, new edition, over 200 illu-
strations; 7/0, post free. “The Labour Movement in
America,” by Aveling, post free 1/0. Matrimony, or
Phrenology and Physiology applied to the selection of
Congenial'Companions for Life, (id. The Elements of
Social Science ; 3/0, posted 4/-. Nigger Songs, fid. Henry
George’s Works all at 1/-, posted 1/4. Works of Ingevsoll,
Paine, Bradlaugh, Besant, Foote. Send for catalogue.
SIB IROIBIEIR/T BEAE,
Radical Book Stores,
16’., PARK STREET, SYDNEY
Thr SYDNEY CATERING COMPANY, LTD.,
- ‘ ‘ (Late Gunsler's Cafe)
175 pitt Street, Sydney,
_, .. ~ Hi i|, p j,, Stilnmw IVI vt> been EvTIRKTA' KHOIMiANiSKI.), and shall be 1(1 ad it tlu'V "ill <
WISH their former Patrons and the Public Generally to lb, . • JAMES 0. MARQUAND, Manager-
,heir new cusine a trial. : - ■ ■"—
npHE COLONIAL MUTIML LIFE ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED.
BKANCHKS THROUGHOUT THK COLONIES AND THE UNITED KIND DOM.
n„- O rd .n»y,


Melbourne Standard recently fell upon
its weak knees and prayed that the new bridge
across the Yarra might be called after the Gracious
Lady in Black. “We urge,” whined the flabby
print aforesaid, “that when the eventful day
comes and the inevitable bottle is broken and the
hurrahs go up, his Excellency may be enabled to
declare that ‘ the Queen’s Bridge is now open to
traffic.’” Ugh !
Our contemporary, Imperial Federation,
becomes quite threatening. Writing of the re-
cent statements of Sir Charles Lilley on Independ-
ence, this amusing sheet says :
It has, however, sometimes been suggested that if the
older Colonies failed to keep their ebullient young sister
in order, it might be desirable to suspend for a time the
advance of any more British capital to Queensland under-
takings, whether public or private. Some people would
perhaps go further, and suggest a refusal to discount
Queensland bills. But a step which v.ould send every
firm in the Colony into bankruptcy in six months, and
leave the honest white workers to starve in the midst of
warehouses overflowing with wool and sugar, would be
•2 S ®P OUS a penalty to inflict, because a portion of the
inhabitants of this youthful Colony have had their heads
turned by exuberant and unchecked prosperity.
If this sort of thing were attempted it would
be the best thing that could possibly happen for
Queensland in particular, and Australia in
general.
Governor Hopetoun, Lord High-Commis-
°f the Church of Scotland, has given terrible
offence to the Australian Evangelicals and Sabba-
tarians in general by laying the foundation-stone
of a Roman Catholic Convent at Kew on a recent
Sunday in the presence of a large crowd. I'he
ceremony was to have been performed by the
Countess, but owing to alaundrymaid at Govern-
ment House (since dead) having contracted typhoid
fever, a malady by which “Her Excellency” was
once afflicted, it was deemed expedient that she
should leave town for Mount Macedon. “< u t
of the frying-pan into the fire,” for while dodging
the typhoid she managed to place herself in the
way of a falling curtain-rod which injured her
hand and neccessifated her temporarily returning
to town for medical assistance. The Governor
apologised for her absence, but did not give the
reason, and said she desired him to say she was
very sorry she could not be present to meet so
many of her own race; he also said he had to
thank Ireland for having given him a wife
The proceedings were reported in all the papers,
the Evangelical Daily Telegraph not excepted
but it is presumed that the latter journal told off
a worldly reporter for the heathen job, which
would surely not have been performed by any
Y.M.C.A. young man. Then there appeared a
letter signed “Two Ladies of Kew,” protesting
against the vice-regal visit, and stating that men
were employed erecting flags, &c.. and that it was
the first time a Governor had done such an un-
righteous act, and they hoped it would be the last.
Editor Fitchett appended a footnote saying he
had received several letters on the same subject
but thought it wise to go no further in the matter’
Ladies’ Silver Watches, 355.
Arcade.
Dahms & Co., King-street
Macaulay says, Dr. Johnson frequently
offended more senses than one. The Doctor did
not use McDonald’s Perfect Nail Trimmer and
Cleaner. All chemists. Price one shilling.
Bona-Fide announcement. Highest cash pri
given for all kinds of gent’s left off clothin
Dress-suits for sale or hire. Letters prompt
attended to by QUITTENTON BROS. 1
Russell street, MELBOURNE. (New nurabt
loo.)
Old-fashioned Jewellery modernised to perfection De
signs free. Dahms and Co., King-street Arcade.
There is a candidate out for one of the dis-
tricts, at the South Australian elections, who
cannot read or write. He can yell though, and
will probably be considered eligible.
U uS most active Melbourne
constable in putting down Sunday hotels, has
taken an hotel of his own at Richmond. What a
moral in this ! That hotel will be hermetically
a e on the Sabbath. Secretan, ex-detective
olnet, keeps his pub., and—but they all do it.
I rom Spence’s “ Recollections of General
.°™V Whloh a PP eared lately in the CoNTEM-
(( Review, we cull the following sentence :
who for e nw V l r t yet,,^ Gordon, “met the woman
wonl’d he «i/i sa^. e ’ and perhaps at a moment’s notice
the sweet P ctpr? to f sacnfl , ce the comforts of home, and
tn , e . ® weet society of loved ones, and accomnanv me
me toXTnd nf t h of duty might
me to the end of the earth, perhaps, would stand bv me
of hardshfp anTn f"? di . f f Kcul G’ aild sustain me in times
or hardship and perplexity. Such a woman I have not
met, and such an one alone would be my wife.”
From this we gather that Gordon was not only
a tyrannical crank in business matters, but also
w‘n°th g f ly selflsh m lnarital affairs. It is just as
veil that no woman ever consented to become his
matrimonially-fettered slave. Matrimony should
and < NPp ra p m i" ,hl ° h >0t o P arties agree to give
and take; Gordon wanted to take all and give
of “ wifo » ldeiltly con S derin £ tha * the vain title
r wile was a sufficient recompense for the
renunciation and martyrdom of such a union.
Bulletin, Asyou have personally
had plenty of Far Northern experience I
all abol,t tbe Chi ” ese of 'tbe
1 ai North but have you ever been told how we
serve our lepers in the Northern Territory ’ If
not, here s the correct ticket. After being caught
and duly certified to be a fit and proper subject
baVto l> he P? T W i' et ? h is cari 'i ed across the
bay to a solitary island about four miles away
where a generous and humane Government hands
him a calico tent, provides him with rations, and
bids him consider himself a State fixture. We
have had two lepers at the station now for a year
° r ?°- , N °£. lon g *B° there were three, but one-a
stalwart Chinaman with just enough of the terrible
disease-marks visible to swear by—took New
Caledonian leave, and the local papers laid them-
selves out to discover what became of him The
S f nt , l° Wn r by the head official here
says that he had been for weeks gathering wood
for a raft; that when he had constructed this he
put off from the island, “and was never seen
ag pl n - <T he / e the matter dropped. He was only
a Chow, whom nobody owns ! ” Once upon a
o l er T en av hlPped its le P e ™ back to China
at £3O a head. Times are harder now, and the
cash for extras is played up; so we place them
on an island, give them a camp, and feed them till
they die or escape. A tent on an isolated island
in a country where we have forty inches of rain-
a in three months must be a rare experience for
poor devils who have nothing better to do than
die as quickly as possible.—Yours, Port Darwin.
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
Fahms & Co., King-street
Ladies’ Silver Watches, 35s
Arcade.
While knuckleduster Smith was posing as a
tw fl*°i n h br “ ISer ! ome s P eoiall .V idiotic “Pelicans” put
that flabby impostors fighting-boots on a handsome
pedestal and covered them with a glass shade. At latest
dates the noble sportsmen were enquiring for a pair of
BrifehePs boTs. CaSt ‘ off S ° CkS t 0 take the placeof the
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
Building Sites, City of Perth, W. A. Plans
street^°Sydney? VeStment C °’ ’ Lin,itai - 96 Bathurst -
Medical
I
m
*
\
¥k
c.
M:
v v;
*-
7^
; .1 w
■ L
■ *= "i
:-
Manly Purity and Beauty
No tongue nor pen can do justice to the esteem
in which the Cuticura Remedies are held by the
thousands upon thousands whose lives have been
made happy by the cure of agonizing, humiliating,
itching, scaly and pimply diseases of the skin,
scalp, and blood, with loss of hair.
Cuticura, the great Skin Cure, and Cuticura
Boap, an exquisite Skin Beautifier, prepared from
it, externally, and Cuticura Resolvent, the new
Blood Purifier, internally, cure every form of «frin
and blood disease, from pimples to scrofula.
Having been a sufferer for two years and a half
from a disease caused by a bruise on the leg, and
having been cured by the Cuticura Remedies
when all other methods and remedies failed, I
deem it my duty to recommend them. I visited
Hot Springs to no avail, and tried several doctors i
without success, and at last our principal druggist,
Mr. John P. Finlay (to whom I shall ever feel
grateful), spoke to me about Cuticura, and I con-
sented to give them a trial, with the result that I
am perfectly cured. There is now no sore about
me. I think I can show the largest surface where
my sufferings sprang from of any one in the State.
ALEXANDER BEACH, Greenville, Miss.
Bold everywhere. Price, Cuticura, 50c. ; Soap,
26c.; Resolvent, $l. Prepared by the Potter
Drug and Chemical Co., Boston, Mass.
4QP Send for “ How to Cure Skin Diseases,” 64
pages, 50 illustrations, and 100 testimonials.
PIM
PLEB, blackheads, red, rough, chapped and
oily skin prevented by Cuticura Soap.
If I had known of the Cdticttba BBXBDIXS
twenty-eight years ago, it would have saved me
$200.00 (two hundred dollars) and an immense
amount of suffering. My disease (Psoriasis) com-
menced on my head in a spot not larger than a cent.
It spread rapidly all over my body and got under
my nails. The scales would drop off of me all the
time, and my suffering was endless and without
relief. One thousand dollars would not tempt me
to have this disease over again. lam a poor man,
but feel rich to be relieved of what some of the
doctors said was leprosy, some ringworm, pso-
riasis, etc. I took . . . and . . . Sarsaparillas over
one year and a half, but no cure. I went to two or
three doctors, and no cure. I cannot praise the
Cuticuka Remedies too much. They have mad#
my skin as clear and free from scales as a baby’s.
All I used of them was three boxes of Cdticura,
and three bottles of Cdticura Resolvent, and
two cakes of Cuticitra Soap. If you had been
here and said you would have cured me for $200.00,
you would have had the money, I looked like the
picture in your book of Psoriasis (picture number
two, “ How to Cure Skin Diseases ”), but now I am
as clear as any person ever was. Through force of
habit I rub my hands over my arms and legs to
scratch once in a while, but to no purpose. I am
all well. I scratched twenty-eight years, and it
got to be a kind of second nature to me. I than*
you a thousand times. Any one who reads this
may write to me and I will answer it.
DENNIS DOWNING, Waterbury, Vt.
HANDS
Soft, white, and free from chaps at i
redness, by using Cuticuka Soap.
Address: R. TOWNS & CO., SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Great Meaical Reform!
Consult (FREE) HERE, RASBMUIBSEN, the Celebrated Danish Herbalist,
Expert Specialist in all Private Complaints, Barrenness and Nervous Diseases.
&4n Yf^
%
%
%
%
\
%
O'
w
%\
£ >
%
%
ţ
R
E]
s
T
0
R
E
s
L
0
s
T
Y
I
T
A
L
I
T
Y
m
\j\o
00 1
'S
<0
01
f
ť
mm
Restiies
V
Vitality
A Guaranteed Cure
xt fol '
Nervous Debility and
oo v « t a*.ity.
2-s. 6d. per Course,
smaller Box , r >s. (id.
rn, , , J Herbalist in Australia
° l( for Great ‘ Per J or ? ied > and 18 Honourably Mentioned in the “Centennial History of New South Wales ’*
ror nerbai Discoveries ; and who can prove that he has CURED OVER 20,000 PATIENTS.
S° le Proprietor and Discoverer of the Celebrated
r »h? f i MA:RK; VITALITY PILLS, Registered,
■c . ave «■» * « of Cnr.„ g so manyJWand. rf SufW. gom N»vo™Deb®j Errors, Weakness, Despondency,
G-enuine
To HERR RASSMUSSEN.-Dear Sir,-This is to certify that you
failed - JOHN RPVNOTtSj Ph° od d , lsease ’ after many doctors had
tailed. JOHN REYNOLDS, Chappel-street, Leichhardt, Sydney.
RenpfS>t^ R n SSMUSS F> i the ce,ebrafced Danish Herbalist.—Dear
Benefactor,—l have much pleasure to inform the public that you
all 1 thp n dnptl e v«° f b at V' Rernal i, COnlplaint 0f a very serioua nature, after
all the doctors had given her up.—ARCHIBALD MACFARLANE
Eden Cottage, Barney-street, Armidale. ’
To HERR RASSMUSSEN, Specialist in Nervous Diseases. Dear
hereby thank you for the great cure you performed on me for
a very complicated nervous affection, and 1 shall always recommend
you to sufferers from Nervous Debility.—PHlLLlP STEAD 54 Pam
matta-road, Annandale, Sydney. ’ 04 1 ana ‘
To HERR RASSMUSSEN, Danish Herbalist.—Dear Sir and Bene-
factor,—-It gives me great pleasure to testify to your wonderful skill
m the treatment of Disease. You cured me of a terrible complaint
after the doctors gave me up, and although it is four years since I am
as well as ever. I shall recommend you to all.—Yours trrateful’lv \
RAMSDEN, Great Western Coffee Palace, Castlereagh-street, Sydney.'
To HERR RASSMUSSEN, Specialist in Nervous Diseases —Dear
Sir,—l hereby certify that I have been under your skilful treatment
for a very obstinate case of nervous debility, and that you cured me
with one course of your Vitality Pdls.-D. M‘NEILL, Hornsby
Junction, N.S.W. ’ J
J
m
Opinions of tlie Press.
it is a well-known fact that HERR RASSMUSSEN, the Celebrated
Danish Herbalist, has performed many great cures during the past few
years-, as his numerous testimonials will prove.— Sydney Bulletin.
HERR RASSMUSSEN.—We have been shown some excellent Testi-
momals of the great cures performed by Herr Rassmussen, the cele-
brated Danish Herbalist.— Australian Star.
HERR RASSMUSSEN has now been established in the colonies
for 10 years.— Sunday Times, April 28, 1888.
HERR RASSMUSSEN has become a celebrity in the curing of all
diseases of the nervous system. His name has become a wonder
throughout the Southern Hemisphere. He was presented with a Gold
Medal for some of his miraculous cures.— Balmain Leader, May 12,1888.
HERR RASSMUSSEN.— The remarkable cures which he has effected
are pretty generally known.—Balmain Observer, April 28, 1888.
We are perpetually receiving letters from HERR RASSMUSSEN’S
cured patients requesting us to make known to the public the wonder-
ful medical skill this remarkable man possesses, and he has just been
presented with a Gold Medal from several of his cured patients.
—Sydney Weekly News, May 26, 1887.
ussen’s Herbal Remedies.— (REGISTERED.)
DENMARK VITALITY PILLS. —Guaranteed to cure Nervous Debility TostVitOin, v . v ~ .
DENMARK FEMALE RESTORER PILLS.-Guamnteed to cure nil ' ’", ■ f , ° f th a " d Despondenc y- p rice, 225. ad. per full course ; small box, ss. 6d.
Price, 225. 6d. per course ; small box, ss. 6d. ‘ co,np aints pecullar to Females, Irregularities, and eradicates complaints which cause barrenness.
LOOK CURE PlLLS.—Guaranteed to Cure all disease of f ho hioori u .
the blood, discharges, sores, and strictures. Price, 225. 6d. per course ; small box, ss. 6d.
CONSULTATION AND ADVICE FREE.
»" re “ ,pl 01 4d St “ , l’ ed ” ddrc »“ d '» vel ” E ASSI'SSS ”S i “L P " d B * rren ”“.
Address: - Herr BASSMUSSEN. the Danish Herbalist
Corner Gordon- B treet & Park-road, Paddington, Sydney. ’
TRAMS—Take Paddington Tram to Paddington Tram Waiting-room.
1 DENMARK-
%
%
I
,v<
%
V-
%
$
%
%
yh.
ŧ
R
E
s
T
0
R
E
S
L
0
s
T
Y
xji^oßj
%
M
[S#
m
0
0
/
pfeAce
t
te
iTAiiiy
A Guaranteed Cnre
for
Nervous Debility and
Lost Vitality.
225. 6d. per Course.
Smaller Box 6s. 6d.


Bnalnftw Announcements.
TURPIN & BRIAN,
Wholesale and Family Grocers,
616 George Street, Sydney,
ABB
RBMOVXDJG
To those Spacious Premises formerly occupied
by R. S. TIGHE, Wholesale Grocer,
623 GEORGE STREET
SYDNEY.
LOOK OUT FOR FUTURE ISSUES.
NOTE THE ADDRESS:
623-George Street—623
Brickfield Hill, SYDNEY.
(Two Doors from Lawler’s.)
—THE-
Fresh Food & |ce (X
LIMITED,
HARBOUR STREET,
SYDNEY,
Are evidently determined to go ahead They are
now supplying Customers who take a Quart of
Milk and Over per Day at
THREEPENCE PER QUART!
This appears very wonderful, hut it is
quite true.
Weekly Accounts.
A. BOWMAN’S
LONDON MADE
Porpoise Hide Boots
Are Reduced from 30s. to 21s.
249 PITT ST., SYDNEY, Near Tattersall's.
Porpoise Hide Wears Twice as Long
as any other Leather.
They are noted all oyer London,
Birmingham and Liverpool.
London Fashions,
AND
Fresh Goods Every Fortnight.
Trade Supplied Wholesale at a Great Advantage.
m
ROSES
$
MU////
9:
»
o
n
a ;
LOTI
11
IBss>
EST
rpHIS valuable Lotion is guaranteed to cure SV> ELLING
1 and SANDY BLIGHT, INF LAMED EYES and LIDS.
DIMNESS OF SIGHT, &c. It will be found very bene
fleial and cooling to those who have weak eyes, or whose
work compels them to strain their eyes. Highly
recommended by the leading Oculists.
Manufactured only by the Proprietor,
H. A. ROSE
Dispensing and Manufacturing Chemist
531 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Wholesale by the Proprietor and all Wholesale Houses.
Established ISSS. By Post 3s. 6d.
SPff" Manufacturer of Dr. SOUTHAN’S GOUT am
RHEUMATIC PILLS.
*
ows
vs
'
%
fy\
)r% oL ° y?sa
«S
m
Business Announcements.
<n
r
(filßTi
a
D
ONM
RAN
t 7
V
t 3 Cg
a g □
i , : >
Wit
2S.
m
ROBERTS & CO.,
—W HOLESALE-
HA.Y AND ENGINE STREETS SYDNEY,
Head Office: 85 Gracecliurch Street, London, E.C.
IMPORTERS OF
Railway & Bridge Contractors'
Plumbers’
Squatters’
Requirements
IN
Great Variety.
IMPORTERS OF
Engineers' and Blacksmiths’
Couchbuilders’
Mining
AGENTS FOR:
Kortinsr’s Gas Engines— The best and cheapest yet. made. Automatic self-governing, thus saying cost of gas.
Braddock’s Water mid Gas Meters and Gas Lamps. Reading Iron Works Universal (Split) Pulley Wheels.
Howe’s Platform and Counter Weighing Machines and Weighbridges.
T Radius* *2*
Guinness’ Extra Stout,
FIRST QUALITY.
Bass' Pale Ale,
FIRST QUALITY.
Sole Purveyors to the
Colonial & Indian Exhibition,
London,
(By Special Appointment).
Wholesale Agents Balchin, Johnston & Co., Sydney.
M. B.
btjg-le
FOSTER
ZBIE^-A-UNTID
& SONS, LONDON,
ale -A-nsriD stotjt.
-)(-
PUBLIC NOTICE.
It having come to our knowledge that ALE and STOUT of very inferior quality, in bottles with
skillfully forqed labels have lately been palmed off on the public„ „„„, ,
We desire to warn our friends of the fact, and to state that all corks as well as capsules of the
bottles shipped by Messrs. M. B. FOSTER & SONS to this colony bear their name and address
Any information respecting Bottled Beer purporting to be Fosters Bugle Brand offered
or sale without these corks and capsules will lie esteemed by the undersigned, who have instruc-
tions to bring to justice the perpetrators of the frauds.
A Liberal Reward will be given for information leading to conviction of the offenders.
)(
BALCHIN, JOHNSTON & CO., Sydney,
Agents for Messrs. M. B. Foster & Sons.
Ab l c for Kupper’s Elberfeld La S er Beer
(Specially Brewed for Australia). Absolutely Free from Sediment.
-THE-
Wolseley Sheep-Shearing* Machine.
I
)ASTORA LISTS are notified that, to avoid disappointment,
no time should be lost in Booking Orders for next Season.
Agents: J. H. G-EDDES & C 0.,
19 PHILLIP STREET, SYDNEY.
\y
\
%
%
Cjt
\
vV
A-
EVERY .
DESCRIPTION
or
HAIR WORK DONE
/22*24\
/ROYAL ARCADt\
MELBOURNE
PRIVATE
ROOMS
FDR LADIES
Cities’ life Assurance Company,
LIMITED.
Capital ... *300,000.
Head Office:
21 Castlereagh St, Sydney,
With Branches and Agencies throughout the Colonies.
KTew BAXsineaß:
IHB7 There were issued 10,557 Policies.
1888 ~ ~ .. .T4,«84 ii
1880 „ „ i, 57,3‘tJJ >,
These figures show the wonderful progress of the
Company and the high esteem placed upon its
liberal dealings by the public.
CLAIMS PAID
Immediately on Proof of Death
JAMES P. GARVAN, \
WM. ALEX. SMITH f
Managing director.
Seorctarv
Medical.
ţ
ť
IF SO,
DON’T MISS THIS!
What everyone says is bound to be true, and young
and old, rich and poor, physicians who recommend, and
patients who try
The Krupp Galvanic Chain Belt,
All agree in praising that most scientific of Electro
Therapeutical Appliances. For Rheumatism it is un-
rivalled. Lumbago at once succumbs to its power. The
Nervous are strengthened and the Debilitated restored to
perfect health and vigour. In short, the appliance is an
unfailing cure for all Nervous, Sexual, or Chronic Diseases,
and is GUARANTEED to ABSOLUTELY CURE, com-
pletely and lastingly, the following complaints: —
Dyspepsia, Neuralgia, Pains in the Back and Chest,
Lumbago, Catarrh, Rheumatism, Dumb Ague,
Nervous Debility, Paralysis, Kidney Complaint,
Spinal Disease, Female Weakness, Diseases of the
Liver, Impotence, Seminal Weakness, Diabetes,
Sciatica, Atrophy, Gout, Indigestion, Asthma, Piles,
Epilepsy Spermatorrhoea, Specks before the Eyes,
Excessive Heart Palpitation, Defective Memory.
An Unfailing Cure For Varicocele.
It is a PORTABLE BODY BATTERY, and contains
special appliances for both sexes ; therefore, why waste
your money and health by procuring and taking USELESS
DRUGS ? Electricity, when properly applied, is acknow-
ledged by all leading and unprejudiced physicians to be
the only safe and radical cure for Nervous and Sexual
Diseases, and the thousands of testimonials received by
the Krupp Belt Co. from leading personages throughout
Australasia prove the unquesFonable curative properties
of Electricity as applied by theappliance above referred to.
Our confidence in this appliance is so complete, that
we send the Belt out on trial, and guarantee it
to give perfect satisfaction. For full particulars as to
terms, etc., send for our large illustrated treatise, free,
in which these Belts are fully illustrated, the action of
electricity on the nervous system explained, and a lot of
useful information on nervous and sexual diseases given.
This treatise also contains facsimile of testimonials received
from some of our clients who have tried our Belts. The
originals of these testimonials produced on application.
The prices of the Krupp Galvanic Chain Belt and
Suspensory are from £l.
Sole Inventor Carl Knurr.
Business Manager . . A. W. Courtney.
Address all communications to the
Krupp Galvanic Chain Belt Co.,
Box 647, G.P.0., Sydney, N.S.W.
Remember—The K.G. Chain Bdt ewes ndthout medicine ,
is easy to wear, is sent on approval, and the first cost is
the only cost.
I JPOR £ A DIBS
AND ALL PERSONS
MOU SON'S
COCOA BUTTERSOAP
Cocoa Butter Soap is a real skin-beautifier, and a balm to
young and old alike.
MOUSON & CO., PERFUMERS & TOILET SOAP MANUFACTURERS,
KHAN K FORT-ON -THE-M AIN K.
LONDON! 32 & 33 lIAMBELL-BT,, E.C. PARIS: 2f) RUE RAD/.IWILL.
Full guarantee for perfect purity is offered by the
sole Manufacturers, Mouson & Co.
JULIUS GOLDSCHMIDT & CO.,
231 CLARENCE-ST., SYDNEY,
SOLE AGENTS FOR AUSTRALASIA.
PLOUGH-SHARES.
MH'SHM PLOU.H.^HAm,
IN EQUITY.
Hornsby v. Hudson.
— —
J\T O T I O 33
TO THE
hraiij Commnily of Hew South Wa'es.
HUDSON BROS., Ltd.,
Are still making the Shares which formed
the subject of this great lawsuit. Ihey
are now branded
DEE
and their quality is better than ever.
m
HUO
s yi\*
Farmers desirous of encouraging Colon
Industry can obtain these Shares from o
Local Agent.
NOTE—Trial gambles free of cost*


Medical.
3?
eureka
)S.
ELECTRIC
BELT^
MW
tUH
IV
O'
A NEVER FAILING CURE FOR ALL.
Diseases of the nervous system.
Complete with Suspensory Appliances from £l,. 0. 0 and
r^ll ' 3 famous Electric Magnetic Belt will cure
NERVOUS DEBILITY - , Seminal Debility, Impotence,
ana all weakness caused by indiscretion. Tains in the
Lumbil T'o, Giddiness, Rheumatism, Kidney and
Bladder complaints, and in fact any disease of the Nervous
System. The currents are steady and constantly felt by
the wearer. It has great improvements over all other
belts, we are willing to furnish those belts on 30 days
trial, and accept payment after they have proved them-
selves what we represent them to be. Those belts are
made for the specific purpose of producing a continuous,
mild, soothing current of electricity through all the weak-
ened parts, restoring them to health and vigorous strength;
even the worst case permanently cured in three months.
It is more convenient to wear than any other Belt.
A Book illustrated, containing fulliaformation and testi-
monials from prominent people throughout Australia,
and informing persons how they may obtain those belts
without paying for them until they have proved them com-
petent to cure any disease of the Nervous System, will be
forwarded to any address on-receipt of a 2d stamp fat
postage. » 1
Address
VOLTAIC BELT COMPANY
liox DIG, Q. I*. 0., Svdnkv.
Br B James D. Llewellyn,
(registered)
SPECIALIST in
GrENITO-TJEINAET DISEASES,
May be CONSULTED at
-325 LONSDALE STREET—
(between Swanston <k Elizabeth Sts ),
MELBOURNE.
K& Consultin'? Hours—lo to 2; 7to 9. Sunday
Mornings, 10 to 11.
All Personal Consultations are free; by letter the
I ee is £l, which is inclusive of medicines.
. r
c^BL/a*
% 1801 *
Tricoptoras
FOR
THE HAIR
An elegant dress
ing, exquisitely per
fumed removes- all
impurities from the
scalp, prevents baldness and gray hair and
causes the hair to g-row Thick. Soft ’and
Beayliful. Infallible for curing eruptions
of the skin, diseases of the glands, muscles
and integuments, and relieving cuts, burns,
bruises, sprains, &c.
Barry’s Pearl Cream
Imparts to the darkest skin a clear, natural
v.’hite, tinged with the faintest rose-blush
It speedily removes wrinkles, freckles, sun
burn and tan, and mantles the faded cheek
with youthful bloom and beauty
Barry’s Hair Dye.
Put up in two forms, with and without
r. preparation Without the preparation,
gradually colors the hair any shade desired,
from a light brown to a black With the
preparation, instantly colors ll\e hair a na
turabjet black the moment it (supplied,
CtaM#iOH-None of these preparations gen-
uine jvithout the trade mark of Barolat
& Co , New York, affixed to each bottle
IST - A BLESSING IN EVERY FAMILY.
HOLLOWAY’S PILLS AND OINTMENT.
There is not a country in the civilised world where
the healing virtues of thes» grand medicines hare not been
recognised by thousands of sufferers. In all the ordinary
ailments of humanity -their beneficent action is at once
recognised. Fullest directions are supplied for their use
in every disease. IF YOU SUFFER, TRY THEM. Manu-
factured only at 76 New Oxkoiid-st., Louden. p ur .
chasers should loolc to the Label on the Boxes and Pots
If the address is not 6Q3 Oxford-street, London, they are
spurious.
LOONG SHAN TEA HOUSE
NOW OPEN.
T’ca.r-fc & Oo.’es
Q
U
o
N
G
T
A
R
T
&
C
o
M
P
A
N
Y
EXTENSIVE NEW PREMISES
(Nearly opposite Theatre Royal).
FIRST-CLASS (JRILLS,
As well as all kinds of Refreshments, may
bo obtained from 7.30 a.in. to 11.30 p.m.
CUP OF DELICIOUS TEA.
ICED DRINKS OF ALL KINDS, &c.
The rooms are splendidly furnished and
fitted up. In addition to the large and
well - appointed Refreshment Rooms,
gentlemen will find on the Second Floor
Commodious and Comfortable Smoking
and Conversation Rooms, furnished with
Chess, Draughts, &c., &c.
TO THE LADIES.
On the First Floor will be found Nice
Private Room for Ladies, convenient for
Writing, Reading, &e., also Retiring
Rooms and Lavatory, with both hot and
cold water laid on. Inspection Invited.
Finest Teas imported—Packets Mb. and
upwards supplied. Orders promptly at-
tended to.
137 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
Q
U
o
N
G
T
A
R
T
&
C
o
M
P
A
§
Medical.
A WONDERFUL MEDICINE.
Beecham’s Pills
ISM
<b
PATENT
PILLS.
&
Are universally admitted
to be worth a Guinea
a Box for bilious
and nervous disorders,
such as wind and pain in
the stomach, sick head-
ache, giddiness, fulness
and swelling after meals,
dizziness, and drowsiness,
cold chills, flushings of
heat, loss of appetite,
shortness of breath, cos-
tiveness, scurvy, blotches
on the skin, disturbed
sleep, frightful dreams,
and all nervous and trem-
bling sensations, &c. The
first dose will give relief
in twenty minutes. Every
iMn erer J s earnestly invited to try one box of these
1 11lb > and they will be acknowledged to be
Worth a Guinea a Box.
For females of all ages these Pills are invaluable,
as a few doses of them carry off all humors, and
i n,l o about all that is required. No female should
oc without them. There is no medicine to be found
equal to BEECHAM’S PILLS for removing any
obstruction or irregularity of the system. If taken ac-
corclmg.to the directions given with each box they will
r° ! ,'. rest ° re ma^es of all ages to sound and robust
health. This has been proved by thousands who have
tiled them, and found the benefits which are ensured bv
their use. J
For a weak stomach, impaired digestion and all disorders
of the brer, they act like “ MAGIC,” and a few doses will
he found to work wonders upon the most important
organs in the human machine. They strengthen the
'' hole muscular system, restore the long-lost complexion,
bring back the keen edge of appetite, and arouse into ac-
tion with the ROSEBUD of health the whole physical
energy of the human frame. These are “FACTS” testified
continually by members of all classes of society ; and
one of the best guarantees to the nervous and debilitated
is, Beecham’s Pills have the largest sale of any patent
medicine in the world.
Beecham’s Magic Cough Pills.
As a remedy for Coughs in general, Asthma, Bronchial
Affections, Hoarseness, Shortness of Breath, Tightness
and Oppression of the Chest, Wheezing, &c., these Pills
stand unrivalled. They are the best ever offered to the
pubbcand will speedily remove that sense of oppression
and difficulty of breathing which nightly deprive the
patient of rest. Let any person give Beecham’s Cough
Pills a trial and the most violent Cough will in a
short time be removed.
Prepared only and sold wholesale and retail by the pro-
prietor, Thomas Beecham, Chemist, St. Helens, Lancashire,
England, in boxes at Is. lid. and 2s. 9d. each.—Sold by
all Druggists and Patent Medicine Dealers every where.
N.B.—Full directions are given with each box.
CONSULT PROFESSOR SELBY,
876 Cleveland Street, Surry Hills, Sydney,
Personally or by letter on Chronic Complaints
of the Nervous System, Diseases of the Urinary
Organs and all Impurities of the Blood. A Positive
Cure in all cases amendable to treatment. Suf-
ferers should read the Professor’s valuable treatise,
sent post free to all who send their address. It
contains Advice on Marriage, worth its weight
in geld.
EPPS’S
GRATEFUL—COMFORTING
COCOA.
Dr. westcott’s amenorrhea
PILLS for Ladies, when taken for a few
days before, quickly correct all irregularities
hum whatever cause arising ; 2s. 9d. and 4s. 6d.,
by post 3s. and ss. W. H. SOUL and CO., 190
Pitt-street, Sydney, Agents.
Musical.
INGHAM’S
patent scale instructor
FOR THE—
HIALIIHOP’OPUPPj.
PUPILS can obtain the above at once, and the best
way to illustrate its usefulness to them is to sup-
pose a man to live to be a hundred years old and never
to have seen a Piano, he would, with five minutes’
instruction, be able to play the most difficult Major and
Minor Scales on the instrument.
Miscellaneous.
P. C. NICHOLES & Co.,
WHOLESALE
Confectioners & Pastrycooks*
City Buildings:
736 G-eorge Street;, 736
HAYMARKET.
Steam Works :
617, 619, 621, 539, 541 HARRIS STREET.
Wedding Cakes, See., Made to Order.
WALTER HOPE,
General Merchant & Commission Agent,
199 SUSSEX STREET, SYDNEY.
CONSIGNMENTS of all Produce, Live Stock, etc.,
J received and realised In the best markets. Account
Sales and Proceeds remitted the day after sale. Orders
executed for all Goods from Sydney at Lowest Wholesale
Prices
Speciality.— Pure-bred and Pedigree Stock of all de-
scriptions Bought or Sold on Commission. All communi-
cations referring to Purc-bred Poultry and Eggs for Setting
to be addressed as usual to WALTER HOPE, Bonnyrigg
Prize Poultry,Farm, Liverpool, N.S.W.
SPECIAL NOTICE.—The Sydney Bulletin.
Tasmanian Edition Publishers, EITZ-
CERALD BROS. Subscription (payable strictly
in advance). Six ShiSings and Sixpence per quar-
ter, or One Pound per annum.
The Bulletin will be on Sale every Friday at
ho Office, George Street, Launceston, or from the
I limners in the street.
Business Announcements
The bank of new Zealand.
Sydney Branches:
64 PITT STREET, and 538 GEORGE STREET.
Paid-up Capital £1,125,000
The Bank has Agents in all the principal cities
throughout the United States of America and
Canada, and can offer special facilities for dealing
in Bullion, Bills of Exchange, Commercial and
.travellers’ Letters of Credit.
Drafts issued and Bills collected on most favour-
able terms, at rates which can be ascertained on
application.
N. F. GIBLIN, Manager.
3E%.gegcL £ 3Fl.oa.ca. ! Read !
“THE BULLETIN’S”
History of Botany Bay,
By Arthur Gayll.
Profusely Illustrated by The Bulletin’s well-
known Artists,
L. HOPKINS and PHIL MAY.
Frice - One Shilling
Per post, Is, 3d.
Wholesale Agents :
Victoria: A. Benjamin, 321 Little C'ollins-st., Melbourne
Melbourne: Gordon & Gotch.
Brisbane: J. H. Thompson, Bookseller, George-street.
Adelaide: Neville & Co.
Tasmanian; Fitzgerald Bros., George-street, Launcestin.
ME. HILDER,
BOOT UPPER MANUFACTURER
IMPORTER OP
ENGLISH AND FOREIGN LEATHER,
Klastic Web, Grindery, Ac.,
Wholesale and Retail Leather Merchant
539 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
T> R I T T E N R E R G & CO.
IMPORTERS,
81 Clarence St., Wynyard Square.
Furniture, Mirrors, Oleographs, and Mouldings.
J. SITTERLIN,
FROM PARIS,
Ladies' Hairdresser. Wigmaker, & Perfumer,
25 SYDNEY ARCADE, SYDNEY.
HISTORICAL AND FANCY HAIRDRESSING A
SPECIALTY.
Manufacturer of All Kinds of Theatrical
and Street Wigs.
Ainnioniated Quinine,
The most efficient Hair Lotion, to prevent prema-
ture baldness.
Sitterlin's Vegetable Hair-dye,
The only Hair-dye in the colonies to restore Light
Hair to its natural colour. All shades.
Success Guaranteed..
MANUFACTURING
GEORGE STREET
s
Y
D
N
IMPORTERS OF ALLTHE
NEWEST SHAPES!
And at ALBERT STREET, BRISBANE,
-v'H'-
►A
ŧ
I
INC
y
*y
PO
233
MANUFACTUBtO BV : .A,
•Macs OtMNok S/oriov-rS* 4?
cjflCrf £t/ $ SSorrAecfif/y ** x
Business Announcements.
fHE THREE GREAT LIGHTS!
The Needles Patent Gas-making Machine;
The Harvey Patent Safety Kerosene Lamp;
And the New Era Portable Gas Lamp.
The Harvey Lamp has been adopted by the
Railway Commissioners for lighting the Sydney
trams. We were awarded the Highest Order of
Merit and Special Mention by experts at the
late Melbourne Exhibition for our lighting
mediums. Over 0000 Harvey Lamps are in use
in this colony, and for all lighting purposes are
giving universal satisfaction. These Lamps can
be seen on one of the North Shore ferry-boats,
and are suitable for all classes of vessels. The
Inventor offers £2OO to anyone producing as good
a Kerosene Burner.
Patentees for Australasia:
H. T. Smith & Co., 494 Kent St. South, Sydney;
14 Arcade, Adelaide, S.A.; Argent Street, Broken Hill;
Parkside Iron Works, Melbourne.
—THE—
Art Furnishing Warehouse.
BEARD, WATSO I CO.,
361 George Street, SYDNEY,
Direet attention to their Magnificent Stock of
Carpets, Floorcloths, Linoleums,
And other Floor Coverings, in the
NEWEST DESIGNS A AUTISTIC I'OLOI'RINGS.
Art Decorations, Upholstery Work and
Window Draping a Speciality
AH Orders executed by a Staff of Experienced
Workmen, and Special Attention given to the carry-
ing out of Customers' toishes ivith punctuality and
promptitude.
Hotels.
I’l'All LENTS HOTEL,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.,
Opposite the Part, Wynyard Square.
(Under New Management.)
rpiILS for 25 years well-known First-class Central Hotel,
recently thoroughly renovated throughout, has every
comfort and attention of a home. The Cuisine Department
is under competent French supervision. Dining Room
open for Non-Residents. Open-air Recreation Garden.
well-ventilated Billiard Room adjoining Recreation
e.round (three Alcock’s best Tables), under the manage-
ment of A. Buckingham, late of Empire Hotel. Wines
and Spirits of the very best quality only, and the Finest
and Coolest Bar in Town
HOT AND COLD BATHS.
NHillT POKIER. French
(iprniiiu
Telephone Mo. 150. Italian
Spoken.
SPECIAL SUITES FOR FAMILIES
CHAS. HECHT
Manager.
WEISTERKT HOTEL,
Warniambool, Victoria.
THIS old-established and well-known Familj
and Commercial Hotel combines all the
requirements of a First-Class Hotel with home
comforts.
It is in full view of the sea and within a she.,
distance of the picturesque scenery of the Hopkin’a
River, which affords the finest Rod and Fly Fishing
in the colony.
Arrangements made for the Hire of Rowing am
i 'lulling Boats and Fishing Tackle. Bait, etc.
in the iinmediat
supplied. Good Shbbtim
nciglibourhood.
It is also within Two Minutes’ walk of the Ho u
and Cold Sea Water Baths, which are unsur-
passed in the colonies.
livery and lotting Stables.
Booking Office for Cobb & Co.’s Coaches. ThoS
Cook & Sons’ Hotel Coupons taken.
GEORGE W. CLARE
Proprietor.
THE GEORGE HOTEL
(opposite Bail tray Station, near Baths),
Bt. Hilda, Victoria#
First-class Family & Commercial Hotel,
j £3T For particulars, apply to
F. WIMPOLE,
PROPRIETOR.
'M,
o
O T E L,
VA L H
Esplanade,
ST. K 1 Lb) A. VICTORIA,
lacing Beach, close to Tier and Baths,
iniu tes from Station.
Ter
11. MOONEY .... Proprietor.
LIVERY LETTING STABLES ATTACHED,
Tki.kimionk 082.
First-class Accommodation for Visitors
IjONS’S IMPEBIAL HOTEL
Toowoomba, Queensland.
Acknowledged the Best Hotel on the Darliiq
Downs. First-class Accommodation.
Private Suites first Mass Sample Kooms.
Conveyance Meets Every Train.
JOHN LONG • - Late of New Zealand


S H E V I L L & CO,
Ceraer Queen Street tod Flinders Lane,
MELBOURNE.
MERCANTILE AUCTIONEERS,
Landj and Estate Agents,
;f> ?
sm
m
H lifflJiL
1
1
JU
Advances made against shipments of Merchandise
and Colonial Produce.
Daily Sales held at their Commodious
New Booms.
OUTDOOR
Furniture & Land Sales Conducted.
Branch
Offices
f 32 Chapel St., Prahran. )
\ 2 Albert St., Windsor. J
Bkanch
Offices
Importer of
WtITBS, * SPlBt'lßj x SEB B S, x ETC ->
Geox*ge and Gipps Streets* Sydney<
SPECIALITIES:
JOIU , JiMES o.- a <« Wb “’“°"
BT i. * “ taS
* o£ Bottled Ale and Stout, arriving by monttii; steamers.
Prince of Wales Hotel, 778 & 780 George Street
sMesale anil jingle Bottle Departments, m anil r m <^EOnge-st.,
SEND FOR A PRICE LIST. -
syilney.
FIRSThGLASS LACIES’ REFRESHMENT ROOM & LAVATORY*
GIPPS STREET (Opposite A. Hordern & Sons.)
Produce Stores, Gipps Si,! and Darlinghurat Road
HEAD OFFICE i CtIPPS STREET (Next Prince of Wales Hotel).
WALLACH
s£=
NEW
FURNITURE
WAREHOUSES*
York Street, Wynyard Square, Sydney,
Now supply the General Public as well as the Trade.
><«i"
10,000 Bedsteads,
From XOs. Bti. "to *35.
~*eL
KOT aatT OO'fc®
*>EAWAfER BaD^S,
Waiins a m Dooti, Victoria.
HYGIENIC, + CURATIVJB.
SCIATICA, RHEUMATISM,
Nervous k Skin Dimsos.
testimonials from ail parts bi thb
Colonies.
Water direct from Southern Ocean
ptsraped by Eras motor, retaining alt
natural qualities; free from objec-
tions of Bay water. Large swim-
ming basins for ladies and gentle-
fiifeK. Marble plunge baths, hand-
ful drives place warrfta'mn
front rank as a sanatorium.
T la. O XXX EL S* ItkOBS,
TOBACCO & CIGAR IMPORTER,
27 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY,
(Corner of Bitt Street.)
A large stock of Genuine HaVaiinali Cigars, of the
choicest Brands to select from.
St) le iinpbrter of the Celebrated “ fUtv tie itfiulw"
Brand of Cigars and “ Empire tipreftefc”
Palls B Family J3LM&,
Falls Bniixifi, MelbourkA
This magnificent; Hotel, containing 5p Hpnbld
&iii Single ilopms, is. splendidly , furnished a
perfectly ventilated,
M dnd Cold Flange and Shower Baths.
Electric Bells. Tblhphonh 1217. Billiards, ic.
Terms Strictly Moderate.
j H. DURRANI " ... Manager,
’ Late of the South Australian Club Hotel, Adelaide.
free
T > T , escri'P'fclo MiS
• ■ _ . - . _ T .14
and Life,’
Debility and
• oi tusoisps cyc a copy of this book will
"bfsent Free, Sealed, for sS Penny Stamps.
A 2 WARD Si CO., SYDNEY PHARMACY,
76 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
t
9
AITED
Huntington Mill.
Knowles’ Pumps
PARKE & LACY CO.,
MINING & HYDRAULIC ENGINEERS
AND
GENERAL MACHINERY MERCHANTS,
&C.J &0.,
187
And
& 189 Clarence Street,
SYDNEY, KT.S.’W.
SAN FRANCISCO, CALIFORNIA.
Breakers.
m
We.Hliiighoiise
YESS, LIMITEDi
Hay St., Hay market, Sydney,
engines,
2 to 00 h. i’.
boilers, .
1 to 35 H.p.
STEAM PUMPS
For all purposes.
mMi rum,
2" to 40" discharge.
HAND PUMPS.
Saw Benclies.
t. atlies.
driving mm
See.,
.
Hauling Engines,
Battery Engines.
Saw-mill Engines.
IUVS-UU ENGINES.
ENGINES
FOB
Electric Lighting.
Vertical Boilers.
Multitubular Boilers.
rOKVIsII ICOI'I/lOKS.
&C., &C.
~, ■ M vchiiv rv of mv kind for any pur)large or small, to write for particulars and priecs. 1' run
We invite al those requiring Mach n w h e ther buyers or not, are always welcome to inspect the magnificent display i
STRiSET, TT
12 9,
131,
133
&:
135
ECA.Y
From the extent of our stock we are generally nWe to give immediate delivery,
in our new and extensive Showrooms,
HAYMAH3EET, SYDNEY.
