

VITKEN’S ALB.
DICKENS ’’ WHISKY.
LIFE BUOY BRAND.
THE BEST IN THE MARKET.
MB
USED BY THE LATE CHARLES DICKENS,
SUPPLIED TO THE PKIVCIPAL CLUBS IV STD VET.
Harrison & Attwood., 251 George-st., Sydney. Sole A-genta for 3\Tew South Wales.
OBERTS’
L,
Iv£arfe3t Street, S“2”D3iTE - 2r.
UK RIVALLED ACCOIiIUOBATION.
IDicfe son’s Hotel, Bialli.
“Bwlli Pass.” “ Loolt-Out.”
DISTANCE FROM SYDNEY, 42 MILES.
WM. DICKSON
“Wisliing Well.”
HORSES AND VEHICLES ON HIRE.
“ Waterfalla.^
EVERY ACCOMMODATION.
- Proprietor.
-//
TH B
R OVAL
EDINBURGH
CASTLE"
Specialßeserve”
* * *
OLD
ScotchWhisky
< &a&Jj/wjni£CoU
'y-". l 'iJsß'g
:; a SSSSt i
KOVVI
Edinburg}. &iii
WHII'KI.
•* * *
Special Reserve.
Iu Square Bottles.
This Whisky was
selected by our Gene-
ral Manager, Mr. Jas.
Cullen, during his
recent visit to Scot-
land, and through its
purity, age and mag-
nificent bouquet, has
already secured the
premier po si tion in the
market. In eases, qrs,
and staves. To be
had Duly Paid from
any of the Wholesale
Wine and Spirit Mer-
chants and Distribu-
ting Houses, and in
Bond only from the
‘SOLE agents,
William Campbell k Cc M Limited*
58 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
• •
HIGHLY NUTRITiUE
oeoa
MAY BE OBiAINLU IN LABELLED TINS OR PACKETS IMHOUGHOUTTHF COLONS
* A . m
X
*
0
o
X
/
X
a
*
S*
o.
0
£
X-
$
V
V
*
o
X
o
5
X
o
0
c
\\\o
o*o * 0*0*"
Grand Novelty! Grand Novelty!
FOR MARKING
LINEN, PAPER, ENVELOPES, &o.
Special Monograms.
New System, more perfect than the Rubber. New
Invention. Prizes from the New Orleans (U.S.) and
Melbourne Exhibitions. Prices.— Medium Monograms,
with box and bottle of Indelible Ink for marking Linen,
Paper, Collars, Cuffs,- and Handkerchiefs, Price four
shillings. Larger Monograms, price in proportion.
L. Shrager, 19 Macquarie-Place, Op. Exchange.
& C. HOWARD.
Howard’s Colonist 9-Furrow Digging
INoiigli.-(8.Z.0.F)
Howard's Single-Furrow Digging
Plough.—(O.L.)
Tiie of fixe Times!
PLOUGHING AND HARROWING IN ONE ACT.
Share Points only cost 6d., and are Reversible.
CuAt'UCuTTKKs, Hohsk Gears and every kind of AokicultWeu.il Implements
ZETsT STOCK.
Enquirers please quote this paper.
280 i PITT STREET, SYDNEY
<CoKNEH of Pitt and Bathukst Streets).
nrr
hi mm
H
mm
mm
—THE—
LONDON & SYDNEY
TEA.
COMPANY.
409— KENT STREET-409
(Two doors from Market Street),
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
—IMPORT—
EC X <3- H-C LASS lUDIALT &c CHIIsTA
TEAS
Packed in 201 b. and 401 b. Packages, and delivered at Is. 6d., Is. 9d. and 2s. per lb.
(Carriage Free) to any Railway Station or Port in New South Wales.
A Single Package at Wholesale Price. Correspondence invited and promptly attended to.
The Bulletin
Yol. 11—No. 536. J
[Saturday, May 24, 1890.


TOBACCO
K
ill
nr.
OiXSOPSONS
Customs Returns.
American Leaf.
Dizson and Sons consumed in 1888, 52,592 lbs.
more, and in 1889 (over 44 tons) 98,939 lbs. more
American Leaf than all the rest of New South
Wales put together.
DIXSON S TOBACCOS having the largest
sale of any in Australia are
oUr
*
*
C 3
o
37
w:
o
*v
Po\yC
SIR ROGER
Dr. RIDGE’S
FOOD
FOE INFANTS AND INVALIDS
Has an enormous sale in England
and is now being introduced into the
Colonies.
Every Storekeeper should get a supply
as every Wise mother will certainly
use it.
DR. RIDGE S ROTAL FOOD MILLS,
LONDON, ENGLAND.
BAOwrrrs
raael!
SATIN
I?
XADIIS'
Children®
1 r-i
H.
«sm
TPUN*S' S ‘ C " C
Ssj
BROWN’S
SATIN
POLISH
-FOB-
LADIES' AND CHILDREN’S
BOOTS AND SHOES.
Awarded highest honors at
Phila., 1876 Melbourne, 1880
Berlin, 1877 Frankfort, 1881
Paris, 1878 Amsterd’m 1883
New Orleans, 1884-85, and wherever
exhibited.
Paris medal on every Lottie.
Beware of Imitations.
This Blacking is in liquid form and is applied to shoes
or other articles of leather by means of a sponge, attached
to the cork by a wire, so that the blacking can be used by
anyone without soiling the fingers. No polishing brush
is required. It dries immediately after being applied, and
will not soil the most delicate clothing.
Sold largely in Australia through Commission Merchants
and Dealers.
B. P. BROWN & CO.,
Boston, U.S.A., M’f’gs.
THE BALLARAT COFFEE PALACE.
Lydiard Street, Ballarat.
\f ISITORS to the Golden City will find every
rrn convenience at the above Establishment.
The Only Coffee Palace in Ballarat.
MODERATE CHARGES.
REID & SONS Proprietors.
ATKINSON'S
ENGLISH PERFUMERY
surpasses all others for its natural
fragrance.
A.Tici3srsoisr»s
Eaa de Toilette de Londres.
Unsurpassed for refreshing and soften-
ing the skin, and an exceedingly choice
Perfume for the Handkerchief. An en
tirely new article, prepared exclusively
by the Inventors.
Of all Dralrrt and of the Manufacturer *—
J. & E. ATKINSON,
24, OLD BOND STREET, LONDON
Trade Mark— I “White Hose” on “Goldea .
Lyre,” with Address in full. ■*
T. LAWLESS, Junr.,
37 MARKET STREET,
SYDNEY,
NEVER TRAVEL TV IT II OUT IT.
WANTED IN EVERY HOUSE.
advt
err ECTUAULV DESTROYS
AILNOXIOUS INSECT
FLEAS.FLIES. BEETLES. MOSQUITOES.
COCKROACHES.** O^ 0 AND IS
AT THE SAME TIME QUITE
HARMLESS TO BIRDS DOGS
FOWLS OR OTHER S
ANIMALS “te*
$
4
&
i
$
ct
$
advt
PffrAll CHEMISTS
AND STOREKEEPERS
WMOCt-Sfi IE
F E LTO N •; GRIM WA C ®
. MELBOURNE
WANTED IN EVERY HOUSE
Ask for KRUSE’S INSECTICIDE, and Beware
of the Numerous Imitations,
CLARENDON HOTEL, MANLY,
The Brighton of New South Wales.
AT the CLARENDON HO 1 EL, Banquets, Suppers, Private Dinners, Evening Parties, etc., are
served on the Shortest Notice in the Large Dining Hall. Besides having a most rccherchi
Dinner, you can enjoy from the balconies the magnificent view of the sea and surrounding country;
here also you can have good company, good wines—in fact, everything that can possibly make one
comfortable can be found at this really first-class hotel. Fishing and Picnic Parties provided. Table
de H6te at One o'clock daily and No expense is spared by Mrs. K n.minster to make her
visitors comfortable and her Hotel the best in the colony.
Mrs. KILMiIIxrSTER, Clarendon Hotel,
Opposite OCEAN BEACH, MANLY.
JjJDWIN G GOER TZ,
Stock and Share Broker,
AGEIsTT,
BRISBANE.
Member of the Brisbane Stock Exchange.
68 Hunter Street, and 8 Bligh Street,
SYDNEY.
IP. SHEOEDEE
LIVERY, BAIT, LET-OUT AND COMMIS-
SION STABLES.
Horses and Vehicles of every description for
Sale or Hire; also, good reliable Ladies or Gentle-
men’s Hacks.
THE
Wolseley Sheep-Shearing* Machine.
PASTORALISTS are notified that, to avoid disappointment,
no time should be lost in Booking Orders for next Season!
Agents: J. H. GEDDES & C 0.,
19 PHILLIP STREET, SYDNEY.
3LW
c-^ x
.Mi
/n
'l>>
vl/V
D
vl>
/l>;
C
o
ttQHI
0
FFICFS
7 @py<jsj
PRINCE OF
Victoria.
Chaffs/ Irrigation Offices, Swanston Strait
South Australia,.
Cavendish Chambers . Grenfell Street.
—J. E. Mathew Vincent (Chief Commissioner)
Cornwall Buildings. 35 Queen Victoria St
LONDON EC-
WAL E S’ HOT E L,
St. Kllcia, Victoria.
Within Five Minutes from STATION, and One Minute from ESPLANADE and BATHS.
MIIS. KONG MKNO ... ... ... Proprietress.
LEA & PERRINS’
SAUCE,
Purchasers should see that the Label on every bottle of the original
WORCESTERSHIRE SAUCE
bears the Signature, thus
Ask for Lka A- Ppuiiivs’ Sauce, and see Name on Wrapper, Label. Bottle and Stopper.
Wholesale and for Export l»t the Proprietors , Worcester ; Crosse Blackwell, London, so-, i
and Grocers and Oilmen throujhout the World.
Everyone should Read
“HISTORY of BOTANY BAY,
n
J3y -A. JtnL'X'HXT Jrfc. ■Xi.
Profusely Illustrated by“Tlie Bulletin s" well-known Artists, L. Hopkins and Phil May.
Price
ONE SHILLING; per Post, Is. 3d
May be hid from Agents, or direct from “The Bulletin” Uttice.
A<4ents —Victorian :A. Benjamin, 821 Little Gollina Street East, Melbourne; Tasmanian .* Fitzgerald Brothers, George Street,
Laurfeestou ; Queensland; J. H A Thompson, George Street, Brisbane.


Beale & Oo.’s New Warehouse.
T 7«
I-’ V '
easm
..a
Ol’-U NKW feilOW-ROOMS AND WARKIioL.SBS!
18— & 481 GEOKUE STKEET, SYDNEY.
'.Something New in Sewing Machines!
What is there Special about it?
The restless march of invention has enabled us
to bring before the, public improvements of im-
mense value, to some short account of which we
beg your attention for a few moments. Our call-
ing is to relieve the home-mother of all that may
weary her in sewing, and to make the same
throughout a pleasure. That we have during the
last ten years succeeded in so doing, scores of
thousands will testify. And to-day we are supply-
ing a machine whose range of work is absolutely
complete, transcending the hopes and dreams of
years. The construction and form are such as to
place it altogether alxn c and beyond competition,
and for the truth of which assertions, as of the
following, we humbly request that your own eyes
may be the judges.
THE IMPROVED HIGH ARM. A great
desideratum with ladies has been the raising of the
arm of the machine, so as to allow the goods to be
sown to pass freely underneath. This had to be
accomplished without increasing the weight of the
machine. In fact, the Beale runs with wonderful
ease and rapidity. It is almost silent, all clicking
sounds having been obviated. As is well-known,
a good test of the finish of any mechanism is its
silence when in rapid motion. .
ALAR GER RANGE OF APPLIANGES is
provided than with any other machine. Samples
of work performed upon these we are prepared at
all times to submit, whilst an elaborate Instruction
Book is supplied, which is alone > sufficient to
explain their uses and their applicability to every
requirement
NICKEL-PLATING.—In our climate the
exposed parts of the machine, and the appliances,
need to be protected from rust. We have, at
considerable expense, added a handsomely nickeled
wheel, nickeled plates, screws, appliances, treadle-
bar and cones, heightening the appearance. These
improvements also tend largely to preserve the
parts. This plating is imperishable.
A MUCH LARGER DRAWER has taken the
place of the cramped and clumsy contrivance of
former years. When closed it securely fastens the
cover, and is provided with a lock and key.
THE WOODWORK is handsomer than ever,
being always of selected and inlaid Walnut. All
of it has been exposed for weeks in the drying-
room of the Factory to a temperature reaching as
high as 170 degrees ; thus when kept out of damp
and sunshine, it will endure our most trying
climates.
A SELF-THREADING SHUTTLE of solid
steel, saving the trouble of threading by the end
of the cotton. It has an excellent tension, is
strong and simple.
THE BOBIN WINDER is a marvel of in-
genuity, winding and guiding the cotton by itself,
as evenly as upon the real whence it came, and
stopping of its own accord when the bobin is full.
The baby’s tiny clothing, upon which mothers love to
display their choicest handiwork; the boy s tweed suit,
the drawing-room carpet, may all be stitched by the won-
derful BEALE Machine. Examples of all kinds of sewing
required in dresses, millinery, underclothing, tailoring and
upholstery will be shown and explained at our offices free
of charge.
With the wonderful BEALE Machine, whether for hand
or foot use, you can hem any width, make double seams
o” fells, braid, stitch with chenille, Berlin wool or gold
cord, and such like for fancy work; you may make a
pretty lace stitch, tuck ever so finely, bind dresses, coats,
or carpets; sew on trimmings without guiding, make
frilling, ruffling, or niching : quilt, weave your own braid
with any combination of colours, and stitch it on at the
same time; make thick woollen door mats, embroidered
antimacassars, window curtains, and so forth; you can
■rform the fashionable shirring or
easily and rapidly m
gathering so popular for sleev es. bodies, or skirts of dresses
with an appliance supplied gratis ; lay the small cords in
hoods and stays: do large cording; gather with or without
a band, and generally do all kinds of st might sewing upon
any material whatever. You can darn upon any woven
goods, and do crewel work. You may make button and
eyelet holes, do overcasting, make herring-bone stitch
upon any materials. This work is absolutely unique, and
can only he accomplished upon the BEALE Patent
Machine.
Any of these performances will be show at our shops
at any time. The BEALE Patent makes a, lock-stitch
which cannot ravel, yet by a momentary alteration the
sewing can be done so as to rip from end to end if desired.
This peculiarity is sometimes useful when children’s clothes
are intended to be altered
We have a special word for husbands: When Hie day’s
business is over, and the evening meal is finished, the
wife—and perhaps the sister or daughter sits down to her
sewing. With her hands alone she cannot, as aforesaid,
do anything like the whole of the work required. In ft
corner of the room is perhaps an old-fashioned machine,
with which she may, by hard driving, occasionally stitch,
with a noise like a sausage maehilje. a simple straight
seam ; hut that is no great help. Sin might to he able to
do ALL the work with it, short of stitching on buttons,
which is a trifle. \nd we have known some instances
■where the lady of the house is anxious to obtain a first-
class machine, that which will he the greatest ol all helps
to her. but the husband demurs on the score (If expense.
Why, it is the only article of the household furnishing
which will ever return you any part of the cost! If the
lady will use it, it MI ST earn far more than the half -a-
crovvn a week necessary to purchase i*. On one little
garment she will save t hat sum, so that in addition to in-
creased comfort your household expenses will not he en-
larged, but ought to he diminished, by the possession of a
BEALE PATENT MACHINE. How often do we waste
money upon really useless knick-knacks, or upon need-
lessly expensive articles and indulgences? The Machine
should faV more than pay for itself during the time you
are clearing it off, and it will then become your own, earn-
ing or saving money as before. Is it not fairlv to ho
called a PltOl TTA BLE IN VEX T,M EN T ?
Cash or East) Terms. Price Lists and Samples
Free h>/ Pop.
Benle <Sc Ooiaa.]p>«b*i.'y,
A 484 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
Business Announcements.
A. M
i
MERCHANT and IMPORTED
'ence Street
(Corner Margaret St.),
2
St. James’ Buildings
(WILLIAM STREET),
MELBOURNE.
Fleming’s
RELIABLE
Buggies*
advt
High-Class Buggies, Phaetons,
IfiTagfg'oraS and, Harness.
advt
Farm Waggons,
Express Waggons.
CikRXS
For One and Two Passengers.
asvt
S3
4L
CLARENCE Si
SYDNEY.
„ AGENTS
in New South Wales
fr\
4^*:J r
<= CO
...
V
TRIU M P H
OfThE QOQD.SPIRITgOVER Bad.
Used in hospitals throughout the world in preference to the
best French Brandy. TRY IT.
what
LARMER’S
CELEBRATED
CURES
Nervous Debility,
Sick Headache
Bilious Complaints
Fever and Ague,
Sleeplessness,
Liver and Blood-
THE TONIC OF THE AGE!
This being one of the best Restoratives yet
offered to the Public in the form of a Tonic.
Warranted to Build up the Constitution,
at the same time acts as a Strengthening
Restorative in all oases.
BOTTLES nf 3s. (»d. and ss.
Post, Is Extra.
PREPARED ONLY 15Y—•
CAINS & CO., Chemists,
78 KIND ST., SYDNEY.
lor Sale by nil < liemlst*.
M. W. * Co.
HUNGARIAN
NATURAL APERIENT WATER,
For Constipation, Wigestloi
w
Stomach & Liver Complaints
Or ALU CHEMISTS IN AUSTRALASIA
Tbe Natural Mineral Waters of
Ml*
U 4.
(STATE
VICHY
{'BONIMS
IiRANUK-ORILLE.—For Affections of thi
Liver, Biliary Organs, &c.
UELEBTIN9,—For the Kidneys, Gravel, Gout
Rheumatism, Diabetes, &o.
HOPITAXu—For Stomach Complaints.
HAUTERIYE.—An excellent Table Watwu
CF All CHEMISTS IN AUBTRAIA*I(A.
Business Announcements.
MASON BROTHERS,
mn
m
saws
Hi
11 Ilf
i 1 li *
LIMITED.
363 to 269 KENT’ STREET,
SYDNEY,
Have always in Stock for Sam to the
Trade and Wholesale Buyers Only,
Ironmongery, ami
GENERAL HARDWARE
(Hass, China and
EARTHENWARE.
WINES, BEERS A SPIRITS,
AND GENERAL
BULK MERCHANDISE.
Agents for
JUil N W ALKER AND SUNS
Old Highland Whisky.
LUCIEN FOUCAULD & CO.’S
Old Brandies.
.1. T. GAYEN’S,
Schnapps and Geneva.
A. MEL V I N and SONS*
Edinburgh Bale Ale.
SEND TO
JE3I 3ES IV JFS."ST KI3XTQ-,
SCENIC am. I’OK Tit AIT PHO JOGKAPHEB,
316 GEOEGE STEEET, SYDNEY,
FOR—
Catalogue of the most Complete iSeries of I tews to
be obtained in Australia.
Jenolan Caves, Hawkesbury and Nepean Kivers,
Blue Mountains, Harbour and Coast Views,
Victorian and New Zealand A lews.
Groups of Australian Aboriginals and South Sea
Island Natives, &c., &c.
Medical.
DR. SPEERS
AMERICAN DISPENSARY
31 Y ork Street.
P.O. Box 920.
Dr. Speer is a regular Graduated Physician, educated at
Harvard College, U.S. (for confirmation see New Zealand
Gazette, January 21st, 1886; also New South Wales
Gazette, April 17th, 1888). The doctor has devoted 14
years to the study of CHRONIC, NERVOUS, AND
SPECIAL DISEASES. Four of these were in the leading
hospitals of the United States, which enables him to treat
all complaints with excellent results. All applying to
him will receive his honest opinion of their complaints.
No experimenting; no Mercury used. He will guarantee
a positive cure in every case he undertakes, or forfeit
£2OO. His reason for doing so is this—when there is no
organic disease, and nothing but an inorganic trouble, or,
in other words, a conglomeration of symptoms producing
a certain result, there is no reason why it cannot be re-
moved with the proper remedies, therefore he guarantees.
He wishes it distinctly understood that he does not claim
to perform impossibilities, or to have miraculous power
he claims only to be a skilled and successful physician
thoroughly informed in his speciality—CHßONlC and
SPECIAL DISEASES OF MEN AND WOMEN. People
residing at a distance can, by explaining their troubles in
detail be treated at home. The course of treatment will
not in any way interfere with their business. Examina-
tion and advice free to all. Charges moderate. H. J.
Speer, M D., 31 York-street, Sydney. Post Office Box,
No. 920. Office hours, 10 a.m. 012 a.m. 2to 4 and 7
to 8 p.m. Sundays from 10 to 11 a.m. only.
/m;
I ts ITT/
t ■ f
VSs * °'CTuCW*
TO YOU3NTG 3MCB3M.
DR. FLETCHER’S
TREATISE ON NERVOUS DISEASES, THEIR CAUSE,
SYMPTOMS. TREATMENT, AND CURE.
THE directions contained in this little treatise will b
J- found of immense benefit to the sufferer; and if the-
directions are observed during the early stages of Nervon
or Sexual Debility, JVo Medicines will be required, as. In
observing the directions given, the patient can Cure aim
self.
This admirable little treatise is specially written to
show a method of counteracting the evil effects of indi
cretions in early life—overwork, irregularity in eating or
drinking, &c. It is the result of much study and Ion,;
and successful experience in the treatment of disease-,
and contains a fund of useful information to every sui
ferer from the following complaints, viz.;—Nervon-
Debility, Dizziness, Specks before the Eyes, Pains in the
Back, Defective Memory, Loss of Will Power, Loss of
Energy, Spermatorrhoea, Bashfulness, Diseontentednes-
Constipation, Liver and Kidney Derangements, Atrophy
Impotence, Impure Blood, Foul Taste in Mouth, Palpita
tion of Heart, Wakefulness, Despondency, Excessive Ner-
vousness, Inability to Marry, Premature Decay, and other
symptoms experienced by nervous sufferers.
All Should Send for this Little Treatise.
If the complaint is of long standing and requires
medicine, Dr. Fletcher will GUARANTEE TO CUBE
ANY CASE OF NERVOUS or SEXUAL DEBILITV
with ONE COURSE OF MEDICINES LASTING FIVE
WEEKS, and will send with medicines A WRITTEN
GUAR ANTEE to cure same or return the monies paid.
Dr. Fletcher's treatment is both simple and effective,
and within the reach of the poorest. It is unlike an\
other, and with it he has cured over 25,000 patients, ami
invites patients to investigate his statements by verifyin
the testimonials published in his treatise. The treatis’
will he forwarded on receipt of two stamps to cover
postage.
CONSULTATION BY LETTER, FREE
Address in first instance —
DR. H. EWART FLETCHER,
i Box I*l7, G.P.O.
Sydney, N.S.W.
Private address—Clonmel House, Waverley, Sydney.
Remember, all cases undertaken, guaranteed, and a
signed agreement given, which provides that NO COST
be incurred bv the patient if a cure is not effected.
VARICOCELE RADICALLY CURED WITHOUT
OPERATION.
Mention this Paper.
ZW" IN THE PRESS,
: GOLDEN ST-X^JSrTY,‘”
By ‘'BULLETIN" WRITERS.


east estate.
A pleasantly-situated Property, thoroughly cleared, close to Liverpool Station. Torrens’ Title. £1 deposit; 10s. per month.
w. STEPHEN, 28 STHHET, SYDETHH.
44 A Golden SllslilltyA H 3P 0 a Selection from the brightest of the original literary matter which has made The Bulletin world-famous. Price, Is. : posted, od. exlia.
Public Companies.
The Australian Mercantile Loan and
Guarantee Go. (Limited).
Head Office:
Corner of Market and York directs, SYDNEY.
Melbourne—2B3 Collins-street East.
Brisbane—Corner Edward and Elizabeth Streets.
Newcastle—27 Hunter-street.
Directorate: :
I'BANK J. SMITH. Ks<|.. M.L.A., Managing Director.
J. B. HOWE, Esq., MX.A. G. J. I IM.AVSoN, Esq.
E. 11. BUCHANAN, E<q. .IAM ES MIU.EB, Esq.
The Company grant immediate advances upon
Deeds of Land. Bills of Lading. Merchandise.
Storage, and Bond Certificates, and all classes of
mercantile and other approved securities, for fixed
terms or repayable by instalments.
Interest Allowed on Deposits:
3 months ... 6 per cent.
f: " »>
A. MILLER ... General Manager.
the
Australian Banking Company,
LIMITED.
PITT and MARKET STREETS, SYDNEY.
Incorporated voder the Companies Act, 187 -
Authorised Capital, £aoo,Ofm, in 100,000 Shares of £5 each.
St BSi RIBKO CAPITAL, £70,000.
o
FRANCIS ABIGAIL, M.L.A.,
Chairman of the Board of Directors.
A Branch of the Bank has been opened at (inn I burn
under the management of C. H. Atkinson. Esq. (lately
Branch Manager of the Bank of New South Wales) for the
transaction of General Banking Business.
The Bank has paid its Shareholders a dividend of 10 per
cent, every half-year since its formation.
The Bank transacts all usual banking business in every
particular.
Special advantages granted to Commercial < bents.
Overdrafts granted against deposit of Deeds.
THE HIGHEST RATES OF INTEREST GIVEN FOR
FIXED DEPOSITS.
The Share Register is now open for the allotment of
Shares—New Issue.
Rv order of (he Board of Directors.
RODERICK M‘S'A MARA, Manager.
Forms of application for Shares mai be obtained at the
Batik.
ffITV MUTUAL FIRE INSURANCE
1 ' COMPANY, Limited.
Established 1877.
Capital RMMMNNI.
Head Office:
26 CASTLERKAGH STREET. SYDNEY.
A Cash Busts of lu per cent, is paid to Policyholders
m renewals every year. Insurances covering Loss by Fire,
Lightning or Gas Explosion at Lowe-t R ates.
Tin DIVIDEND of 8 PER CENT, to 3lst December,
t's'.y g now living paid, and the BoNl S ot 10 PLB
i ENT. lo Policyholders will, as usual, be paid on re-
newal of their policies.
Money to Li,no oA Aitboveh Si;inuTv,
X.B.—The Bonus paid is equal lo that paid b\ any
Eire Company in Sydney.
ROBERT KERB. Manager.
Medical.
m
rn
■ \
a
k.V
7 // i "Sr s 4**
■<mmm
W&W'il'X*
jjJ _
THE TREEToF LIFE .
>w
Eucalypte Oil
Victory Ointment
13uixc a,ii Sloas,
The Ureal Aniciiean Athlete,
i t RFD of INFU'KN/.A l>\ nsinj* < OLKMANT. ,v so\s>
RIT’ALYPTK KXTHAtT.
don't in; iie<
U you want the best .Medieine the world has ever tro-
itiieed, try Caw. sank ,v Sons' Hi < ai.vitk Kvuimt there
:a‘o no ton medieines equal to it. It is one of Nuture s
roatf'st jfifttt to mankind. It is the onh known cure for
Asthma, Consumption, llroiieltitis, aid nil atTu lionf* ol
it**" Client and l.nturs. For I’.i'pitation of tlt*- 11 **art ,
i .'ravel and Kidney complaints it has* no equal, fevers ot
all kinds, Coiifflis. Colds. Rheumatism. et*- M ate banished
l n its use. Awarded .Medals and Itiplomas Adelaide.
Sydney and Melbourne, healinar all eompetilors. Singers
and inil.lio sneakers will (lint and Sons' F.t * \i.vm
lloN'rv a wonder I ’ ft*’«nr* and uet ( oi.kmwi and
Business Announcements.
NOW ACKNOWLEDGED
TH E BEST
IN THE MARKET
M.Wi Cl
W HISKV
V SO LD
EVERYWHERE
Sole Agents; JAMES MOIR & CO., 58 Margaret-st., Sydn -y
ff. H. SMITH & SON,
MANUFACTURERS Sr IMPORTERS OF
PfIJFJS fI]SD OpPg,
302 George Street, Sydney,
S Doors South ot Hunter Street.
• V
f
7 «
*
A Large Assert
aient of English and
French Goods, from
the best Makers to
chooec from.
Every description
of HATS and GAPS
nade to Order.
J_| IS TORY OF I'.OTANV
B A Y
Business Announcements.
HEALTH for the MILLION !
WATSON'S
Mild, Aperient, Antibilious
Pills, purely vegetable
in their composition,
are particularly recommended to either sex, where a
gentle, but effective aperient is required. These Pills
are invailua.bl6 for all complaints of tlic Stoiiiticli tind
Liver, speedily removing sick headache, biliousness,
indigestion, etc., and cleansing the
blood of all impurities; To Ladies
these pills will be found invaluable.
One trial is sufficient to prove their vast' superiority
over all others, bold by all Chemists and Storekeepers.
Price Is- per box. Prepared solely by John Watson,
Chemist, George Street, Sydney.
PILLS
Hlivlmli' Agents:
Messrs. Elliott Bros., S. Hoi fn ijng & Co., Australian
Drug Co., Fieldham Gothelf & Co., Myers & Solomon,
Tilloch & Co. and J. B. Dove & Co.
Eilectro-Magnetic
BEa-ssage Institute,
For the cure of
Rheumatism Limb ago, Sciatica, Debility,
Gouty and Neuralgic Affections,
Muscular and Nervous Disorders
All Cases under Medical Supervision. Ladies
attended by specially-trained Nurses.
04 * D ARLING HI RST ROAD.
SYDNEY.
Attendance: 9to 1 a.rn.; 7 to 10 p.m.
Process Protected by Letters Patent.
J€, LIIDOWIC'I A SON, Manufacturers and Im-
m porters of Superior Oak-Tanned Belting,
and every description of Leather Goods for Mining and
Engineering purposes.
All Luw,., ueuiTiig the above Trade Mark arc warranted
(o give entire satisfaction, or may itc returned a( the
Makers’ expense. The Pioneer.' Ovk-tan.nep I.either
Belting is used exclusively hy tho N.SAV Government.
Over :'ot'i,ooo yiinniin / in Av»lralht. The cheapest and
hosl Belting in thcVorld. Send for prices and catalogues
162 Clarence Street, SYDNEY,
THE-
S’VK.m.csjSi. 1 * < cJT'iCX'? ;T; IsS
I —" 3
t=3
t^ss*
| . 2J A. t '■«. I T.
<szr\za^
-THE -
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL
FIRE
Insurance' Society.
E«Nblisli.<l ... ' -V *I«T2.’
BollU«fc5B
or
20 per cent. Paid Annually
Hincc 1873.
f i
a [ \
Itrfi •
aa
-i '
‘f 1 '
< (
iAI
Vr
iiw
&
Head Orncr
—THE
Oldest Mutual Fire Office
in Australia.
Claims promptly and liberally
settled. Fifteen days’ grace
allowed for Renewal of Rolieies.
Lowest Current Rates charged.
i/"». Gfortie Thornton, M L. 0,,
Chainvrjff,
OPPrcn;
Corner Pitt Sc King Streets.
SYDNEY.
Walter Church . Manager-
Business Announcements.
I I
m iK
m
AUCTIONEERS & ESTATE ACEN
MSI
&
-,i3fS
:r
BAY L E E & C C
rtENKRAT. AUCTIONEERS AMI K'TATK AliENTfi,
;Vi~t Collins Street, Melbourne, and It tin
Street, Soulb Yarra.
'ALAS
RE<CR/ER£u.
dIUDY economy
® and
Have your Umbrella Frames
Re-Covered, and your
Parasols Re-Lined and made
Equal to New, at,
.1 . Sl’ LTil \ VS,
841 George Street,
Rr l(‘-KFlßt.lt Him, Sydney,
lit ween
Liverpool a V.nthnrM .V.< .
Parasols made to match Cos-
tumes. Repairs neatly done.
'APERHANGINGSJ
liisXSiooßs* p A | N ts
YAU PAPERS' FRom 3-
PAI
29 George Si^BathurstSt.
Brickfield Hill. ——
PULVEEMACHER’S WOULD
FAMED GALVANIC BELTS
FOR THE CURE OF
Nervous Exhaustion and Debility, Sciatica,
Lumbago, Rheumatism, &c.,
AYE received Testimonials from Throe
Physicians to Her Majesty the Queen and
the Leading Physicians of many London Hospi-
tals, including over Forty Members of the Royal
College of Physicians of London.
For full Price-list and particulars, see new pam-
phlet “Galvanism: Nature’s Chief Restorer of
Impaired Vital Energy.” Pamphlets Free.
Sole Agents for N.S.W.,
FROST &. SHIPHAM
ELECTRICIANS,
474 & 587 George Street, Sydney.
Solo Agents for Victoria;
ALLISON BROS., 477 Coi.msh-strkkt West, MRi.notmKß.
FJ)n't ,\ 1, ST ANT>\ I! I> II OTKIj'
it;
• \sTi.i:i;K\mr wi> batiicrst street's.
First chi s accommodation for Country Vi-iters.
THOMAS MCREEHY:
83 Oxford Street, i doors ahovo Riley Street.
Primh Di*<(i?cx of Both Sc.teg n Bpcrialitih
Consultation' Gratis, Charge* very Moderate.
A Trial Solicited.
A SPEEDY CURE GUARANTEED.
o
Tl'i,riiiir/h' i rnwrtitnl thrnvnhnut.
<;. lIOVNK
Proprietor.
MEDICAL HERBALIST,
CITY Z
Investment, Laxid and ]Build.lxig
OoMrXsn»EL»x3r, XaiMciS/fc^caL.
Authorised Capital, JEIOO.OOO ... Reserves and Uncalled Capital, £37,000.
Rates fnr I>k, posits: 12 months, T per cent.; ts months, O.J par cent.; at call, 5 per cent.
Boons to 12 months' Depositors.
Directors: .1. Garrard, M.P., Hon. .1. 11. Yorsn, M.P., .1. I’. Walker, .T.P., .Tonv 0 Hamtt.tos.
J. D. Ward, Manager, 3-27 Pitt-stveet, Svdne\.
BANK
3 2 7
PITT STBBET, G IT X) 3ST 3-0 "Y


The Bulletin
Vol 11- No. 536.
SATURDAY, MAY 24, 1890.
Price, 6d.
THE AUSTRALIAN EAGLE.
IF THERE RE A LION IX THE WAY OF “FEDERATION UNDER THE CROWN,” THERE IS ALSO AN RAGLE—HEAR HIS FIRST SCREAM.
“He believed in the union of Australia and the founding of an Australian nation, and he spoke the mind of a grat many members in thar House. (Opposition
cheers.) If they were to depart from their present Constitution let it be to have a flag of their own under an independent Constitution as the United States of Australia. (Oppsi-
tion cheers.) He held these opinions as a native of the soil and he claimed that they were as well entitled to be considered as those of the Premier, who was not a native of the
soil. The time was not ripe for separation yet, and he would not be one to do anything to bring about a severance at the present time. (Hear, hear.") This country had one of
the grandest futures that any country in the world eon Id possess. That future was to be built up by the creation of a new order of things under the flag of the United States of
Australia.” (Cheers.)-Dibbs' Speech.


The Bulletin
rlie National Australian Newspaper.
acs'i'KaMa rnu tut ,\v>it. -.i.i
n ROPRiETnRR : nniJiETIN NEWSPAPER ('O.,
LIMITED.
PUBLir-IIKD ONOK A WKKK,
At 21 I’n r street. Sydney, New South W ai.es.
TERMS TO . S UP,SCR THE lIS
■(flayabio in advance, only ).
Per Annum ~ ? ®
Half yearly 0
Quarterly ... ••• ••• " h
Cheques. Drafts, etc., and all Hu*iness Communications
to he addressed to William Macleou, Manaylny Pirn-tor.
Literary Communications to be addressed to J. F.
Arciihsam).
The Editor will carefully read and etcknowledye m tne
“ Correspondence” column all contributions submitted—
whether in the form of Political, Social, or other Articles,
Verse, Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns In
lenyth, or say DOW words, are specially acceptable),
Parayraphs, Letters , or Xewspapcr-CUppiwjs. All
com m a ideations will be reyarded as strictly confidential.
<• The Hulk-tiii” will return all unavailable MAS. when
/hr address is specified and stamps arc enclosed, hat we
desire thoss sendiny MAS. to distinctly understand that
ire arc nut responsible for the preservation or transmission
of such M SS.
X OT ICE.
By send ino direct loTm Bulletin Office Twenty Shilling*
sterUny—which you may pay by Post Office Oidei, One
Pound Sole, or Stamps of any Australian colony—you
can hare The Bulletin quisled reaularly to you every week
for a year.
This offer is not open to residents of Sydney. In that
city The Bulletin is not delivered by mail, but is entirely
in the hands of our carriers, with whom we do not wish
to interfere.
SATURDAY, MAY 24. 1890.
The Dignity of Labour.
Tnr. ‘’ dignity of labour ” is nno of the old,
weary, worn-out aphorisms of which tin l
world is beginning to grow tired. It has
been preached for so many centuries by men
who avoid labour as if it was a venomous
thing that the venerable saying has gradually
been discredited, and any force it once pos
sessed has been irretrievably lost ; and the
masses on whom this dignity has been too
exclusively conferred have begun to ask why
t he burdens of mere animal toil should bo so
unevenly distributed. Labour, no doubt,
has a dignit y of its own, but except in theory
the world declines to recognise the circum-
stance, and even in the most democratic
communities the man who digs a well in a
thirsty land is of no account by comparison
with the man who leads an army, and the
person who fasts for 40 days is of vastly
greater importance, in the popular estimate,
than the public benefactor who grows a tree
•whore no tree grew before. And in the
greater part both of the civilised and the un-
civilised world the visible dignity of labour
consists only of a vested interest in a broken
chair, and a leaky roof, and a table that is
foundered on three legs and rheumatic on
the fourth ; and embodies a hereditary right
t<; be something lower than an ass and a
shade less dignified than a horse ; and the
outward symbol of the grandeur of toil is the
privilege of turning the weary mill of human
industry from early dawn till dark, and
listening to the ceaseless, changeless, endless
clank and clang of the wheels that are for
ever grinding out gold for the benefit of men
who never labour, and who. consequently
in theory, at least—possess no dignity.
Labour, too, is the only earthly distinction
to which no ambitious minds seem to aspire.
The man who has deserved well of his
country is'not, as a rule, rewarded by a
patent of nobility which confers on him and
his peers the privilege of carrying bricks till
the end of time, nor is the individual whom
t he nation delights to honour promoted to
turn the handle of a grindstone as a mark, of
universal esteem and veneration. Toil is
universally declared to he an honour, and
as universally held to be a degradation, or,
at the least, a necessary and unavoidable evil,
and all the accumulated cant of ages lias
hardly served to alter in the slightest degree
the world’s unanimous verdict.
* # #
The Church, as the faithful ally of wealth,
lias never ceased to proclaim the blessedness
of toil, and to denounce inglorious case as a
curse invented by the enemy of mankind
for the destruction of the human race, but if
this theory.be true, then the Church herself
is an empty lie built upon a foundation of
straw. For while preaching the grandeur
and nobility of servile toil and the loveliness
of poverty, she points oul as the goal of
human happiness a heaven which is tilled
with crowns of gold and where the elect
shall enter into eternal rest, and the ecclesi-
astic is not yet built who w ould dare to teach
the existence of a future state where clanking
wheels are for ever revolving among the
unfading bowers of Paradise, and everlasting
steam-engines groan and whirr and rattle
in ceaseless discord by the shores of the
Jasper Rea, abd the innumerable multitude
of the saints enjoy; in a wider and more
lavish settle, the blessings of labour, of which
t hey received only a foretaste here on earth.
'Pirn paradise of the Church is a land of
palaces- a region of boundless magnificence
and wealth that passes all lin.itcomprehen-
sion- a dreamy, lot us-eating"laud of eternal
summer, where all toil is ended, and the
blessings of poverty enter not ; and so long
as the acme of the Christian’s felicity is an
existence of never-ending repose amid the
roses and fountains of Elysium, the earthly
picture of the joys,,of animal toil and weari-
ness and drudgery and w ant must needs wear
a strangely incongruous aspect, which even
the half-blind eye of faith cannot fail to
recognise. . ...
» * *■
And thus it comes to pass that the world
refuses to regard labour as a blessing, and
the great object of' science and invention is
to render toil practically needless, and to
make steam and electricity take the place of
human exertion in every possible branch of
industry. Everywhere the tireless arms of
iron and steel are making man himself more
and more superfluous except as an intelligent
being who is qualified to oversee the
mechanism of the world, and possibly a time
may bp approaching when even his super-
vision will be in a great measure unnecessary
and the mysterious motive powers which
Nature lias supplied will run the globe by
themselves. But while every effort is being
made to render labour a mere useless custom
banded down from the improgressive ages
when man. through his own ignorance, was a
beast of burden, the old, worn-out story
about the loveliness of toil being in itself
an essential cardinal virtue has lost none of
its pristine freshness. Because man was the
only known motive power in an era of
primitive darkness the theory gradually arose
that he must continue to drag ponderous
burdens behind him through all the cycles of
time, and labour became a species of fetich
to which the obi-men of the church pro-
fessed to bow down, just as the not much
less intelligent obi-man of the Senegal or the
Gambia calls on his followers to bow down to
the equally intelligible god of his devotion.
In practice toil was regarded as a curse—in
theory there was held to be some shadowy
spiritual benefit which accrued through a
ceaseless physical effort, devoted to digging
ditches or hauling bricks or propelling heavy
burdens generally, and the “dignity of
labour” was the common phrase by which
was expressed t he sentiment that man, being
made in God’s own image, was eminently
fitted to drag half-a-ton of bricks uphill and
profit by the exorcise.
#, * *
Therefore man, in his capacity as an intel-
ligent being, went on with that process of
invention which was steadily making himself
more and more superfluous ; and man in his
other capacity as an insensate beast of bur-
den went on toiling because be was unable to
learn that toil was no more an abstract virtue
than baldness or cold feet or any other of the
incidents or accidents of life : and, as the
natural consequence of fhis infatuation, a
wildly anomalous industrial condition has
arisen throughout the civilised world. Over
nine-tenths of the globe the hours of labour
are practically the same as in the days when
man was himself the motive power of indus-
try, and yet the worker of to-day, with the
appliances at his command, produces at least
ten times as much as in the days of old. A
considerable part of this extra product, for-
tunately, is absorbed by the steady increase
of luxury ; the balance serves to glut the
world s markets, and produce a state of
industrial paralysis which makes man the
slave of capital, and renders the chronic
poverty of the masses ten times more unen-
durable and more incurable than of old. The
European or American or Asiatic labourer,
who works year after year for twelve hours
per diem, is the living embodiment of the
great virtue of industry. The product, of his
excessive toil is sufficient to supply the re-
quirements of two men instead of one, and
therefore some other man remains unem-
ployed, and his frantic competition for the
means of sustaining existence forces his rival
to renewed efforts to undersell him, and so
keep his place in the ranks of the great army
of toil. Labour itself becomes the enemy of
labour,-and-the industry and energy of man
bid fair to, till the world with hunger and
and hopeless misery : and yet the old
-theory*that work itself is necessarily virtue,
and that perspiration and dust and exertion
arc intimately associated with moral well-
being. has lost but little of its old-time fresh-
ness. and the “dignity of labour” goes on
for ever in an age when labour is becoming
every day more and more unnecessary.
# * #
labour,- regarded as an abstract virtue, is
a failure. The measure of mini’s industry
should Ire merely the measure of man's re-
quirements, and work, -in an ideal State
must be considered merely as a burden, more
or less grievous,, to be .divided as equally as
possible among the community at large.
Toil in itself is no more a blessing than its
familiar twin-brother poverty, and excessive
toil only lends to greater destitution among
the toilers. The sudden rise of an inter-
national eight-hour movement in Europe and
America is a sign that tire sons of labour
have at last recognised that the everywhere
over-lengthy hours of the labourer is one
of the great causes of that frantic competi-
tion which has made the worker the slave of
his own necessities. But the establishment
of a universal eight-hour system is by no
means the end of the problem, unless, indeed,
invention'has reached its final limits, and
the progress of labour-saving machinery is
to go no further. If in another decade steam
and electricity have doubled or trebled the
jinwer of production, then the hours of
labour must undergo a further diminution,
and if the endless march of invention ultim-
ately brings about an era -when steam and
electricity will manage the world alone, then
man must practically cease to labour, and
tire vaunted virtue of human exertion must
become extinct like the Mammoth and the
Till tec, and many another institution which
was of value in its time and then died away
when its usefulness became a thing of the
past.
. * * *
At present the world is suffering from too
much industry. The starving operative in
the cotton-factories of India toils unceasingly
for 12 or 14 or 16 hours daily to glut an
already glutted market, and, as prices
steadily diminish through over-production,
wages—already at starvation point—keep on
falling, and then the toiler nerves himself to
renewed efforts, and works still harder than
before to make up for the decrease in the
value of his exertions, and by his renewed
struggles the over-crowded markets only
grow still more over-crowded, and the mur-
derous strain of industrial competition is
further intensified. Similarly the starving
farmer of Kansas or Dakota spends his
miserable life in a ceaseless effort to grow
corn for a world which already grows more
corn than it can consume, and when the net
value of his produce sinks to live cents a
bushel his only resource is to grow more and
st : ll more corn, because he still believes that
industry is the road to affluence, and, more-
over, growing corn has become a fixed habit
which it is practically impossible to shake
off. Of course we use the term “over-pro-
duction” merely in a relative sense : were
all the wants of the starving Indian opera-
tives and American farmers supplied like
those of the starving millions elsewhere, then
there would be no cry out about glutted
markets. The hours of labour are not only
too lengthy, but the labourers also are
actually too few, for were access to natural
opportunities easy everywhere, then no
man need starve : no man hog leave to
toil. Yet man goes on in an endless circle
until his very dreams are dreams of cotton
and corn, and toil becomes merely a slow
process of national suicide, and the human
race grows impoverished and worn-out
through the effects of its own unreasoning
vigour. It is for this reason that we pro-
nounce the “ dignity of labour to be
a much overrated institution. Labour
is dignified where it supplies the world’s
requirements and still leaves to the
labourer the status of a reasoning animal,
but labour under the conditions which pre-
vail over nine-tenths of the earth is merely
an insane device whereby one man is induced
to do the work of fwo.in order that the other
man may be forced to undersell him in a
steadily increasing ratio of misery and degra-
dation ; and in these circumstances it
possesses no more innate dignity than the
toils of Sisyphus, condemned to roll a pon-
derous stone uphill through all eternity and
yet never reach the summit. And in one
respect even that doomed toiler was ahead of
the labourer of Asia and Europe, for he was
harassed by no starving competitors driven
by the pressure of monopoly to compete
with him in his highly-taxed industry till the
stone grew larger and the hill higher and the
eternity of unprofitable exertion still longer
and more hopeless and more unprofitable
than it had been before. In his own humble
way he had a monopoly of Ids own misery,
and he could never have fathomed the possi-
bilities of human degradation unless lie was
surrounded by envious competitors all eager
to steal Ids misery from Idm as the only
escape from a condition that was more
miserable still.
A Word with Mr. Gladstone.
“Tt is not given to great men to be great in all things.
Gladstone.
In point of far-reaching intellect, of varied scholar,
ship, of oratorical force, of ardent patriotism, of
unsullied life, Gladstone is great, if ever Eng-
]'simian was great. His very political somersaults
were possible only to a’person of supreme endow-
ments and magnetic force of character. Only a
man built of superfine metal could have stood the
test of that revolt against himself and his past
which he expressed in the declaration of his Home
Rule policy. It is possible that we Australians,
from considerations of distance, cannot accurately
gauge the greatness of that deed ; of the social and
political renunciations which it demanded ; of the
personal magnanimity of which it was a manifes-
tation. We have no criterion to measure it —or
him. Beside a Gladstone our politicians are as
mud-lumps moulded by childish hands contrasted
with the breathing sculptures of a Thorwaldsen
or a Power. Gladstone is great, or the word is
meaningless. And yet Gladstone is not great
all round and in all things; and it does not neces-
sarily follow that his words on every topic should
receive the respect due to an authority, though
they, should never fail to command the reverence
that is the prerogative of his fame. We feel called
upon to make this remark because, in bis latest
cabled utterance on Freetrade, he has taken up a
position which may be regarded as authoritative
simply because it is Gladstone’s.
As Chancellor of the Exchequer, Mr. Glad-
stone nui.de the most brilliant Budget speech on
record, and yet a later generation has not lies)
tated to pronounce his scheme of taxation more
ingenious than just. As a Poelite, he was a main
instrument in winning over the British people to the
< lobdenitccreed, and yet he has lived to witness the
Ministerial introduction into the House of Com-
mons of a measure of undeniably Protectionist
tendency, the Sugar Bounties Convention Bib,
and to confess to the Cobden Club itself that Free-
trade was fast losing its vitality as a practical
principle. As an expounder of the relation of
Freetrade to economic science, he lias had to sub
mif to have his contention that the theory is of
universal application conclusively controverted,
with respect to new countries, by •)', G. Blaine.
In short, Mr. Gladstone: has demonstrated that
in the department of economies he has mneli to
learn from smaller men. His political economy is
derived rather from the text-books than formed by
induction from the observation of industrial and
commercial facts. The data upon which he
founded Ins conclusions are of English origin, and
of the years embraced in the period between the
beginning of the Corn Law repeal movement and
the consummation of the French treaty by Cobden.
He has overlooked other conditions. In whatever
other fields of constructive statesmanship he has
triumphed, it must be said that tested by visible
results he has not built up an enduring reputation
in that of theoretical or applied economics. In
whatever other direction he has advanced, here he
has remained stationary. For instance, Protec-
tion appears to him to-day the hideous thing that
it did in 1846, when he regarded it as the cause of
a national suffering unparalleled in British history.
Men untrammelled by a traditional belief can now
discern in the distress of that time a product of
which a vicious system of landlordism was the
major factor and a crude fiscal policy the minor.
A novice in Liberalism, and still partially hampered
by the fetters of caste and of reverence for the
landed interests then inbred in every educated
Parliamentarian, it is not surprising that Mr.
Gladstone, 44 years ago, hesitated to put the
blame for the miserable condition of things
on to land-tenures. The view that he then
adopted has since become the conventional and
popular one. Till within the last year or two
nothing has occurred to challenge it, or otherwise
it is conceivable that the terms on which he holds
it may have been modified, just as he modified his
adherence to the popular estimate of Irish claims
when once circumstances compelled him to examine
the historical validity of the English position
respecting them. Great man as Mr. Gladstone
is it cannot be asserted of him that he is a great
economist.
, * # *
When, therefore, Mr. Gladstone, as cabled last
week, rebuked America and the majority of the
Australasian colonies for their adoption of Protec-
tive policies, and especially denounced as vicious in
principle arid as unjust as a practical measure the
exclusion of the Chinese, it follows that there is
no peculiar authority attaching to his words. He
repeated the shibboleths of his fiscal faith, that is
all; and of a faith, moreover, of which he is not
even a high-priest. He talked pure Cobdenism —
as was, of course, only meet and proper at a meet-
ing of the Cobden Club. And this is simply say-
ing that he spoke entirely from the standpoint of
British mercantilism and pawnbrokingism, and
in pure ignorance of the conditions under which
the Australian must struggle into industrial inde-
pendence and national life. So small, indeed, is
the acquaintance Mr. Gladstone has with the
position of affairs in Australia that he eulogised
N. S. Wales for her persistence in Freetrade, and
then in the next breath denounced the exclusion
of the Chinese as rigid Protection. In the first
place, as wo need not remind onr readers, N.S.
Wales does not persist in Freetrade: she
simply dallies with it. as her tariff includes
numerous duties avowedly imposed for protective
purposes which her alleged Freetrade Ministers
dare not repeal. In the second place, she has
upon her statute-book the most severely restric-
tive of all the Australian anti-Chinese Acts,
which measure was drafted by a Cobden Club
essayist, and introduced into Parliament by a
politician amongst whose questionable honours is
included honorary membership in that same in-
stitution. Mr. Gladstone could not have known
these things, or otherwise it is possible he would
have refrained from knocking the logical stuffing
out of Premier Pakkks and B. R. Wise, and from
politically reducing that other Cobden Clubite,
the Only Pulskohd. to a paralytic shadow.
* # *
Mr. Gladstone, pursuing his book theories to
their logical termination, cannot see anything in
anti-Chinese legislation but Protection. Parkeh
and Wise and Pulskohd and Alfred Allen and
“B. IV’ Caulfield, and other representative
Foreign-traders, deny there is any Protection in
it. Their denial impales them on a logical diffi-
culty, but they are so used to that process that it
does not hurt them in the least. The difference
between the respective conclusions of the Dis-
tinguished English Freetrader and the Undis-
tinguished Australian Freetraders is that the
former obeys logic and does not know the facts,
and that the latter know the facts and disobey
logic. The former is consistent with his creed:
the latter are the reverse. They may delude
themselves with the idea that they exclude the
Heathen Chinee solely because of the non-
assimilable character of his race, but in their
hearts they, as Gladstone puts it, “fear his
virtues rather than his vices’’ -they know him
to be, an economic problem as well as a mal-
odorous social difficulty. And they know, too,
that the existence of Australian Foreign-
traders as a political party would be
measured by hours and days were they
to go straight for pure Cobdenism —in other
words, if they consented to the unrestricted ad-
mission of “Chinese cheap labour.” With all
their bell-toppered disdain for the Australian
working man, and all their eagerness to buy their
labour in the cheapest market, the Foreign-traders
dare not go that length.
# * *
Now, Protectionists have never hidden either
from themselves or the community that in agitat-
ing for the exclusion of the Chinese they were
pursuing a policy of pure Protection. The ex-
clusion of the man who undersells onr labourer is
as integral an element in the Protectionist doc-
trine as the exclusion of the products of his labour,
and the Protectionist position on the question is
strengthened, and not weakened, when the cheaper
worker is of a race not only non-assimilable but
absolutely in all vital particulars antagonistic to
our own. We exclude the Chinese, as before long
we will have to exclude “our fellow-citizens under
the. Hag of the glorious British Empire,” the Sikh
and the Afghan, and all the rest of the Indian
niggers. Here is a paragraph from the Sydney
Morning H ehald of May Ift:
The Nerbndda, one of the British-India Company’s
steamers, is due here in a day or two from India and
the Straits Settlements. . . . Her report to hand
shows some :10 European passengers and no fewer than .>i
natives. The latter form a strange company. They com-
prise Sikhs. Pathans, and Afghans principally. The most


of them are traders in or hawkers'of Indian wares, and
have come to Australia, induced, it is said, by the glow-
ing- reports received from their countrymen. It has been
remarked that since the law was passed regulating the
immigration of the Chinese into certain parts of Australia
the Hindoo element has increased.
* # *
Now, these Hindoos, as we have been at some
pains to ascertain, land here under a contract
scarcely distinguishable from a deed of chattel-
slavery. Each man is paid by the importing firm
os. weekly and is “found’’ in addition —the total
per Vian U> lltr Importers uweroftiny twelve shit ■
linii;: mot jit i‘ Walt. Chinese “ artisan. .
II we may degrade, the term In using it, in this
connection, are splendidly paid when they receive
from.lss. to 20s. weekly, out of which they keep
themselves and save money. How is competition
between such people and the fair Australian pos-
sible? You ran only make it possible hy der/radine/
the more rosily worker to the level of the other.
This is the Protectionist reply. Mr. Glao-
sone, however, as a Freetrader, would answer
the question otherwise. “ Practise” he says, in
precisely so many words, “ the virtues of the
Asiatic', abstain from alcohol, for instance. ’ But
other abstinences besides that from brandy and
beer would be necessary to bring the Australian
to the economic level of the Asiatic. He would
have to abstain from meat and wheaten bread and
live on rice and pulse; he would have to dispense
with tweed and hide his nakedness with a waist-
cloth ; he would have to substitute a rag turban
for his felt hat; ho would have to cut Ids wife’s
and his children’s throats, for wives and offspring
are superfluous luxuries to the Asiatic as we know
him; and he would have to abstain from a borne-
life of even the poorest sort, and herd with a
dozen or twenty other “ abstainers ” in a style that
would shame a pig of decent breeding in some in-
sanitary shanty. He would have, further, to
abstain from dropping his hebdomadal threepence
into the collection-plate, for he would never go to
church ; he would have to spend his leisure in the
nameless vices of the Asiatic, because' he would
have no opportunity for an occasional visit to the
theatre or concert-room; he would no longer pur-
chase the penny-paper containing extracts from
Mr. (1 ladstone’ s review articles (contributor’s fee :
£24 per page), because he could not spare the
“bronze ’’for the purpose, or the time to read the
paper if he had it, inasmuch as to keep pace with his
Asiatic brother —and competitor—he would have
to work 18 hours per day, Sundays included. From
all these things would, sooner or later, the Aus-
tralian have to abstain, if ho would compete with
the Asiatic on the Asiatic—and Freetrade—level.
But, as the Australian neither can nor will live aw
the Asiatic does, and having, happily for himself,
the power to eliminate the degrading element from
the competition, lie chooses to exclude the Chinese.
And as he treats the Chinese, so will he treat the
Hindoo, whether or not England bices it. The
trifling fact that the latter is a eo-subject of what
Sir Henry Parkes calls “ The Empire,” will not
deter him from receiving similar respectful treat-
ment to that already administered to the Chow.
Because England lias seen fit to exploit India for
the monetary aggrandisement of her “classes” and
for the eternal salvation of the conquered people,
~ the reader will please place his tongue in his
cheek here is no reason why Australia should be
made an exploiting ground in her turn. If Hin-
doos and Cingalese continue to come here as they
have been doing, another Exclusion Act. will be
necessary. • And should the imperial authorities
object to our poll-taxing our brethren of the tawny
tint-well, Australia will not have much trouble
to find a pair of shears that will slit “the silken
cords.” People have not forgotten the half-black
compositors imported by the Empire authorities
with a view to curbing the arrogance of the cheeky
white man.
* # *
No, Australians won’t follow Mr. Gladstone
when his philosophic liberalism runs to seed, and
least of all when he becomes unconsciously the
organ of British Mercantilism. This system of
sanctimonious brigandage has its Siva and Bhow
anek, evil deities who must be propitiated by
sacrifices. It styles them Unrestricted Competi-
tion and Cheap Labour. To them it has offered
up the British artisan, and the Indian ryot and
mill-worker. To them it will consecrate the
African nigger when he has been sufficiently
civilised by “bullets and Bibles.” To them it
would throw the people of Australia—if they
could. But they cannot: at least there shall be
one spot on earth where British Mercantilism and
its gods shall be refused sway. The brutal frank-
ness of a Von Caprivi in his now historic phrase,
pictured the whole British system of commercialism
with minute faithfulness. It operates on a heathen
country by slaughtering —from beneath the shelter
of the Christian Cross ; by exploiting—under the
name of the commercial enterprise; by civilising—
with the refining agency of the rifle and the rum-
bottle. It cannot adopt these methods in deal-
ing with its own colonies, but the principle of its
conduct there is the same; it thrives in proportion
to the destruction of colonial enterprise and to the
sapping of colonial virility. To the, heathen, it
talks Bible and acts bullet; to the Australian and
Canadian colonist it preaches freedom of exchange
and trade, and acts so as to undermine internal
liberty. It cannot force the products of its cheap
labour into protected places, but it seeks to in-
troduce the labour itself. The exclusion of the
labour then becomes a vital necessity. A policy
to that end is Protection. Freetraders, as wo
have them in New South Wales, say it isn’t. Pro-
tectionists say it is, and here Mr. Gladstone and
the Protectionists agree. Which is the same
thing as though Mr. Gladstone were to call New
South Wales Freetraders sorry humbugs.
“The Sentimental Juryman."
Under this caption the Australasian, with
characteristic Tory callousness, lashes with its
strip of bullock-hide the jurymen in the United
Devonshire mine (Vie.) murder-case for their
“weak sentimentality” and their “sympathy
with crime’’—the wrath of the Melbourne paper
having been excited by the admittedly peculiar
reason for the qualification which accompanied
their verdict of guilty. “Guilty of murder, with
a recommendation to mercy because the prisoner
did not intend to murder the deceased,” is a find-
ing that would produce laughter at its illogicalness
were the circumstances less serious. Murder in
the eyes of the law implies wilfulness, and there-
fore felonious intent; otherwise, the act which takes
life is urn of manslaughter. Tkevethick’s mur-
derer did not intend tokillhis victim(anymorethan,
perhaps, did Morrison, of Sydney, the recently-
executed alleged burglar), but ho did purpose to
commit a certain felonious deed from the execu-
tion of which purpose the capital crime resulted.
Legally, therefore, the act which deprived TltKVß-
tiiick of life was murder. The jurymen couldn’t
evade the fact, but they thought they could avert
its legal consequences by appending a recommen-
dation which they must have known was, from a
legal point of view, ill-founded and irrational. To
this extent they were weak and sentimental. Why
did they put’ themselves into this quandary?
Simply becaufe they didn’t want the man to hang.
And so it will ever be while the punishment
of death remains on the statute-book. Of
course, The Australasian moralist—-a Draco
in petto— can’t see this; _ he only notices an
offended Justice and an insulted Society. He
won’t see that rather than deliver a criminal to
the hangman the average juryman who has before
him the alternatives of murder and perjury,
prefers the lesser crime, wriggles himself into the
most tortuonsly-illdgieal of .knots, and won’t con-
sent to lip straightened out if the process is to bt-
followed by I he Melon being slaughtered by the
( h a eiTimrn t's stl pend laps assassin. I he aseiage
juror feels that human nature, and particularly
the legal portion of it, is fallible, and he likes his
sleep o’ nights to be undisturbed by a recollection
that he has possibly been one of a dozen or so in-
struments which have sent a creature to an unal-
terable fate. While a man lives, _ though it
be in tomb-like monotony of a “silent” cell,
reparation is to some extent possible if reparation
be demanded; but once he has been slaughtered
reparation is a luxurious superfluity. The average
juror not being a Judge or (Jrown prosecutor--
i.r., not having “ a legal training,” is utterly
averse to the shedding of blood, and is when out-
side Court and remote from thc_ over-aweing and
unaccustomed influences of judicial wigs and lock-
ings-up-for-the-night, prepared to see the whole
race of logicians d —d first before he 11 make one
of the signatories to a dea th-warrant. Ho wouldn’t
mind consigning a man to gaol for “life,” in fact,
he’d be rather pleased at the idea, for the average
juror has no great horror of gaol for others. But
give the hangman a job he will not if he can
possibly help it. Rather than run the risk of hav-
ing a pricked conscience, he will chance the
letting loose on society of an assassin. Remove,
however, from before his eyes the vision _ of
a murder in which he has a share, by abolishing
the death-penalty ; or if you refuse to do that,
give him the right to legally differentiate as to
the degree of the criminal’s heinousness ; and then
see what he will do. He won’t put the judge out
of temper and make the C.P. look black by a
leaning to leniency then. Not a bit of it. If be
errs at all it is the prisoner who will be affected
prejudicially and not institutional justice ; for as
his own personal mental comfort will not be dis-
turbed in an unbearable degree by any suffering
of the criminal’s short of death, he will look upon
himself as a functionary of the law who, ipso facto,
must be against the prisoner. Make the hang-
man's hemp as obsolete as the virgin’s boot, the
rack, or the scavenger’s daughter; or limit the
discretionary power of the judge by increasing
that of the jury, and yon will save the stony-
hearted Tory journalist the trouble of inveighing
against sentiment in the jury-box. Australian
juries don’t merely want to have the privilege of
saying whether a prisoner is guilty or not g'uilty ;
they also wish to say, in the event of their finding
him culpable, hoio guilty he is—whether, for
example, he has committed murder in the first,
second or third degree. And this privilege they
will secui’e long ere the youngest of the Supreme
Court judges now sitting retires on a fat pension.
♦
In a leader, dated May 15, Sydney Daily Tele-
graph asserted that the speech of Mr. I firms,
leader of the opposition, on the federation question
was ‘ ‘ from first to last in the region of ambiguities. ’
To confute this statement it will only be necessary
to quote Mr. Hums' peroration ;
“ Our people are quite competent to defend these shores
against the whole Chinese nation. I have stated as
clearly as language can put it that I am in favour of
federation, but I do not think that the proposal of the
Premier can ever be successful. I believe in another form
of federation, which may he nearer at hand than we
think, by which our Australian colonies shall he one
nation. It is better for ns to remain a dependency of
England than to forfeit such independence as we now
possess for such an alliance as Sir Henry Parkks proposes.
I will give to any proposal to bring about federation on
proper lines my strongest possible support. This colony
may be the birth-place of a nation, or it may not, but it
is the hope of all our people to see the flag of the Southern
Cross flying, not only over the whole of Australasia, but
over Australasia as a united nation.
It will be seen that the speaker, like many true
Australians, has no desire to saddle the country
with Governors-General, a whole troop of British
sinecure-hunters, and “Upper Houses” of the
British peers brand, but prefers to await the
federation that will come about with a pacific
separation from the mother-country and will be
instituted under Republican rules. The Bulletin
welcomes Mr. Dibbs to the Republican camp—
and hopes he doesn’t come there out of pure
cussedness.
Editor Bulletin, —“ Let this day be a warning to
all tyrants,” said Thomas Nixon, the poor
hunted son of an evicted Irish farmer as he read
the Declaration of American Independence in
Philadelphia over a century ago. “ Let this be a
warning,” said Governor Hopetoun the other day
to the students of Melbourne University as he
proclaimed aloud the corruptions and factions of
American Republics. Since the arrival of the
present “My Lord,” Governor to Victoria, some
of the citizens have gone frantic with loyalty to
the monarchial institution invented by savages for
savages, and when we read in the daily press that
“ Lord ” Hopetoun is about to visit some place,
Radicals ask, like Victor Hugo: “The people
call a man with a large estate a Lord. When they
pray to the Supreme Being they address Him as
Lord. Each has the same equal title. Which of
them Is God ?” Members of the Upper House in
Victoria, mayors of townships, leaders of trades-
processions, Orange Lodges and Archbishop Carr
ought to answer. All hail the Australian Re-
public ! with a grand charter of human liberty
beaming down upon the sons and daughters of
men. A Republic, the rule of the common people,
wherein Liberty shall build up her noble fanes
based upon Justice, Reason and Peace. Such a
Constitution will ever flourish while monarchy and
its hosts of long-forgotten tyrants and their
parasites shall be “ dishonoured and in the pit.”—
Spirit op the Woods.
Ip the directors and secretaries, past and present,
of the Premier Permanent Building Society are to
be seriously proceeded against, the Victorian
victims of their bad management, or criminal
fraud, would like to know the Government’s
intentions in the highly probable event of de-
fendant’s acquittal by a packed bench of “ chalk ”
magistrates. On the first day of hearing a mob of
27 gentlemen made a mad rush for the judgment-
seat, and, in several instances, exchanged surrep-
titious nods or winks with their friends the
alleged criminals. Sonic of these 27 “justices”
would not be trusted by the public to decide
the merits of a dog-fight, if they had been
previously acquainted with either of the dogs.
Many of them are absolute novices in the
law and all of them lack the stern sense
of salaried duty necessary in a magistrate
who has to consider charges against old friends
and acquaintances. Nobody doubts that. Mr.
Panton, despite the snobbish Bkkrthirst inci-
dent. will do justice to the Law but what is one
Panton among SO many irresponsible casual beaks,
each having an equal voice with himself in a
decision? The real hearing of these fraud sum-
menses will commence on the 27th, and if 27
•honorary Holomons roll up to the Bench, as they
did for the preliminary, an acquittal for all the de-
fendants should be immediately recorded by way
of saving time and money. In such oases as this
a packed Bench means that the old,pals before the
the court are to be pulled through. < It.herwise the
honorary geezers carefully absent themselves.
+ —
Tin : beast of “.Queen’s birthday - a nasty Tory
in.-(itnl ion which is - entirely confined .to otlicial-
dom in iho <puif -1 i s own e.ountvy, hy the way-
will be celebrated with all suitable absurdity in
marvellous Smellboume. The local warrior-in-
chief, Major-General Tullogh, has conceived the
gaudy notion of marching his array along the
main thoroughfares after nightfall, to the strains
of “ God Bless the Prince of Wales,” and such
like lyrics of loyalty. Mixed up with the sham-
fighters will be 000 amateur firemenwhose parti-
cular mission is to east gleams of lurid torchlight
athwart the glittering bayonets and sword-blades
of their brethren in buckram. The tout aiscmb/r
is confidently expected to beggar y!! description
and convince sceptics find the \ ictorian army,
under spirited stage-management, can_ make. a.
meretricious ass of .itself. What p:-rt fULiocll
will play in this delirious spectacle has not yet
boon settled by the local War Office, but
it is rumoured that ho intends to fool
around with a frylng-panfull of blue tiro,
and generally follow the lines laid down for
the gnome king in a 'pantomime. Hocktoun is
ineligible to take part in the procession as a
soldier, because lie couldn't pass the military
exam.; but there is nothing in the statutes to
prevent him from acting as principal torch-bearer
if he wishes to lighten the darkness with a little
blazing tow. The vice-regal arrangements, how-
ever, are still undecided, neither has it been
determined where Duncan Gillies shall come in.
Probably he will be told off to stand upon the
steps of Parliament House and wave his hat,
while L. L. Smith and the rest of them endeavour
to tighten those silken bonds by croaking the
National Anthem. Anyway, this great military
bit of bunkum will be worth watching—not for
the sake of the performance, but that one may
discover how it catches on among the audience.
Will the, Melbourne public, dazzled by the glitter
of torch-lit steel, bo unable to see through a flimsy
attempt to persuade them that the defence forces
are doing something which isn’t altogether
childish and worthy of a travelling circus?
There must be something in living constantly in
an atmosphere of stale beer which develops a sort
of mental strabismus among most publicans
sooner or later. How, otherwise, can the follow-
ing deliverances by Air. Header, President of the
Victorian Licensed Victuallers’ Association, be
accounted for ?
He asked, was not the evidence of an hotelkeeper as
good as that of any other man ? Here was a policeman
(referring to the ease of a publican who had lost Ids
licence for Sunday-trading) who, beyond the fact of bis
being a policeman, had no stake in the colony, pitted
against men who have from £5OO to £5OOO, and more, to
consider, and yet the publican’s word goes for nought.
The affliction we have alluded to prevents Air.
Header from seeing that it is just beetnint tin-
publicans have so much to lose that their word
goes for nought. Their love of truth in the ab-
stract is hardly likely to cause them to lose the
license of a concrete corner pub. Air. Header
added, referring to working-men, and this, more
than the other, make us think he must have been
slightly deroosted: “If the publicans went
out on strike, and refused to supply drink, how
would these men look ?” Dry, no doubt, for a time.
But they would get over it. If these haughty swipe-
sellers were to spontaneously combust as one man
to-morrow, the country would sober up and think
it was well rid of them, in a week, and then the
country would gradually construct another set of
publicans. It is a mistake for them to fancy the
visible universe is run in the interests of Beer. 11
is a mistake also to take it for granted that the
working-man regards them in the light of bene-
factors. The working-man isn’t always drunk.
+.
Alr, Reid, President of the Melbourne Chamber
of Commerce, has incited a local journalist ic get
out of his depth and flounder helplessly in the
troubled waters of political economy. Air. Reid
was guilty of repeating the honourable chestnut
that “ all wealth comes from mother earth,” to
which the misguided critic replies that “all wealth,
or nearly all, comes from labour, and mother
earth, in the sense of mere production of raw
material, is but a very small contributor either to
accumulated wealth or the necessities of man.”
This is not very lucid, but lucid enough to show
that the writer is fairly off his legs, and had
better struggle back to the shallows of yellow-
backed lore. Raw material—in which must be
included raw fish —constitutes the entire wealth
of the world, and directly material pro-
duced by labour from earth or sea, or
lying ready to hand, is operated upon by
the most primitive form of handicraft, then
it ceases to be raw material. Reid was right, and
the other fellow makes the grand old mistake of
thinking that money is wealth in the true sense of
the term. Earth and water supply the where-
withal of every manufactured article, and the
means to support the labour which is manufactur-
ing it. Labour makes the money-value of natural
wealth, but that is all; and if every coin in the
world were melted down into one great lump
to-morrow, the world wouldn’t lose an iota of
wealth, although the inhabitants might die of in-
convenience. The Melbourne journalist evidently
thinks that the man who buys a fish for three-
pence and sells it for sixpence after frying it, has
added something to the wealth of nations.
The “Daily Telegraph” and Its Editors.
With reference to the article which appeared in
our issue of the 10th instant regarding the resig-
nation of Mr. F. W. Ward as editor of the Sydney
Daily Telegraph, we have carefully investigated
the matter at issue, and are satisfied that the pro
posed sale of the Sydney tramways was not, on
the part of the Board of Directors, the subject of
disagreement.
The directors held that it was their right to
decide the broad policy of the paper, whilst the
editor claimed the privilege of determining every-
thing upon his own judgment. As Mr. Ward
was in ill-health and had applied for extended
leave of absence with the view of visiting San
Francisco, it was decided to set the matter at rest
before his locum tcnens was installed, and accord-
ingly a resolution was passed providing that all new
questions of broad and important State policy
should be determined by the Directors in consulta-
tion with the responsible Editor. Mr. Ward de-
clined to accept this resolution, and thereupon
tendered his resignation.
We have to express our regret that in our
article on the subject anything should have ap-
peared capable of being regarded as an imputation
on the Directorate.
Who Did It?
A Churns sung by the Premier Permanent Var[?]
Troupe, Melbourne.
[FOR TH E BULLEIN.]
I. Blighted Shakeholdek (sinus).
Behold in mo a blighted gout.
Stone-broke beyond dubiety,
Who ban bed i' tho Premier Permanent—
\ os, J’i rttiaru nt, Society.
They milked the funds, they watered shares,
They couldn’t go it gently,
They’re “ Permanent Defunct!” —' W ho caret'
I’m stone-broke permanently.
The rogues who rigged this pretty plant
Vv alk bold an brass amid it;
But what 1 want to know, and can’t,
is—“ Who the devil did it?"
Chorus. —Who did it V
Who did it?
We’d like to know who did it;
There’s all our cast i
Gone in the smash,
And still they want to “ Kid ' ll :
That nunc - to blame
In this sweet game
They cannot tell who did it !
■lT.—Blasted M.T. (shujsj.
Behold in me a good M. IK,
A Pillar, too, of Piety ;
1 coaxed a lot of L.s.d.
To the Permanent Society.
I always did encourage thrift
And enterprises gamey ;
And if I made a lucky lift,
You surely couldn't blame me.
“ First Robbers " those I was among,
The laws do not forbid it,
But when the whole concern went bung - ,
Some bad men said J did it.
(lid it j
He clid ifc !
Some bad men said did if!
Tr couldn't do
He
A thing askew,
morals would forbid it!
11 is
And whose the blame,
We cannot name
We cannot tell who did it.
111. 81-DNT Politician (sinii*).
A Cabinet Minister am J.
Of Gillies’s “ Variety
I had a finger in the pie
O’ the Permanent Society.
But, s’help me bob ! it wasn’t me;
D’ye think I’d rob a widdy ?
I’m innocent as babe could be—
I couldn’t bluff a kiddy !
They put no feather in my nest,
Or if they did. they hid it ;
Why, I’ve been “ bad." like all the vest
Til find out, too who did it
Churns. —Who did it?
Who did it ?
Who did it and who knew it ?
y ’ll find ’em out
Without a doubt,
And dearly make ’em rue it.
l| ( faked the job?
So help Bob !
j j really couldn’t do it 1
IV. —Blazing Financier (sinus).
You see in me a perfect cuss
For figures and sobriety,
A great financing genius
Of the “ Permanent ” Society.
If they’d financed on, as 1 told,
And fingered fresh flotation,
They’d now be wallowing in gold
Instead of liquidation.
But just because misfortune’s blow
Has managed thus to rid it,
They come to me, as if /’d know
The man, or men, who did it.
Chorus. —Who did it ?
Who did it ?
We can’t think yet who did it.
H e was, you see,
Paid sec-ree-tee,
And merely did as bidded ;•
post, abused
Holds i’- excused—
We’ve no idea who did it.
V.—Bloated “Gentleman” (sings).
My trade is that of “ gentleman,”
Quite blase to satiety,
I’ve never had fun better than
The “ Permanent” Society.
I was a gay landowner, and
A bluff director also ;
To clients ours, I sold ray land —
The luck would have it fall so.
But, as for swindling ? Come, now, Come,
The law hath never chid it;
I kept too mum and glum and dumb
For them to say / did it.
Chorus. —Who did it?
Who did it ?
You’d like to know who did it ?
Their wake, we think,
Is black as ink ;
They must have learned to “squid ” it
It’s useless grind
To try and find
The man or men who did it.
Vl.—The Whole Blooming Company (shuts).
Behold us all! We have no truck
With any impropriety,
Yet we are down upon our luck
Thro’ the “ Permanent ” Society.
One trusted pal just died in time :
Another, with effront’ry,
Has left ns for another clime—
“ The dear old mother country.”
Not one of us sings, “ Culpa mca /”
Bad fortune’s wheel, we skid it;
We’ve just hit on a bright idea
As to the man who did it.
Chorus. —Who did it ?
Who did it ?
Wo know the man who did it !
i t was, ’(is said,
’The man who’s dead.
Or else the man who’s slid It !
We’ll take our oath
That one or both
The “ dead and gone " chaps did it.
The Dipsomaniac.


[?]
846 Macquarie-street North, Sydney, May 21,1890.
Mv Dbar Moorabinda, —
Quite the feature-to me, at least—of the present
N.S.W. Parliament is the tabling of the Female Suffrage
Bill—and hardly anything else is talked of for the time
being. The thing may be good or bad, hut I notice that
its chief advocates up to now are those women whose
narrow sectarian environment causes them to look upon
the stage as an “ unclean thing,” hut who yet long
thirstily for the footlights and the faces beyond and so
seize on any proposal for “ reform” so that they may pose
on platforms and torment audiences with the rasp of their
“ cock-sure ” convictions. The same spirit that moves a
girl with pretty ankles to join an opera-company actuates
the large - waisted, vehement she - politician to hurl
anathema at man and all his works. Both are determined
to display their natural gifts to admiring crowds, and
both found the domestic tie unbearable. I hope the Bill
is thrown out—but, if it should happen to go through,
just let them insert a clause conferring the suffrage only
on women over 30 years of age. They won’t need to en-
large the electoral-roll then—at least, not so very much.
Of course the dailies are full of wild letters on the suf-
frage question, and one enthusiast considers it trium-
phantly in favour of the female vote that “ women ate in
the majority in our churches.” Of course, and for exactly
the same reason that men are in the majority at leg-
shows. But if instead of the unctuous man of Trewth a
charming lady D.D. arose in the rostrum and lisped the
Sunday service, you would find a cut-away coat and hard-
hat congregation from the door to the altar-rails. Women
so often go to church to “ sit under” some “ dear man”—
the mashing element being very strong in sacred estab-
lishments, probably because it can go to any lengths un-
questioned. For instance, a leading Australian divine in-
vited a dear sister to take a run up the Mountains with
him the other day, and she went and returned while a
censorious world wagged on as usual.
In an article “On the Block” in the S.M. Herald, the
writer makes a Johnny Crapaud, whom he is towing
round, say: “ I love not once, but often, to mingle with a
well-bred, well-dressed, happy throng.” Now, I have
stood this sort of thing long enough ; hut to have that
dingy promenade described as a resort for “ well-bred,
well-dressed people,” is the very last camel. In truth,
very few girls who move in society do it at all—the
suburban girls whose joys are few—schoolgirls and girls
who ought to be, and the Chosen are its most faithful ad-
herents—with a sprinkling of hobbledehoys, young men,
and the battalion of used-up, shady men-about-town who
are as invariable as the post-office clock and equally
reliable. Of course you may see anyone on the Block,
since it is a business thoroughfare, hut the inveterate
“doers” of it are the social olla-podrida mentioned
above. And if you don’t think so, “ do ” it yourself and
see.
Rosehill was not exactly en fete for the pony-races on
14th inst., which somehow don’t thrill one like horse-
racing does. There were no gowns and no band, but the
course looked lovely ; the trees have grown fast and the
flowers that bloom in the autumn tra-la are doing very
well in the parterres ; also, the sight of a waiter in full
rig lends additional attraction to the latticed tea-room.
Besides which, the secretary has the same winning way of
wearing his hat, and the trains are surprisingly punctual.
The two concluding days of the intercolonial lawn-
tennis tournament, which has attracted sassiety audiences
from the first, were remarkable for the number of soulful
frockeries displayed on the soggy turf. On 13th perhaps
the gown with most “go” about it was a leaf-yellow
woollen overskirt with draperies designed in crushed
strawberry over a jupe of crushed strawberry silk made
plainly with a kilting at the feet, bodice florally draped
with cream chiffon front, capote of mignonette and pink
ribbons. Another nice attire was a moonshine-green
Russell cord made plainly with bands of green velvet at
the feet and on the bodice, bonnet in green with lilies of
the valley. A workmanlike gown in blue and green tartan
topped by a flapdoodle shapo was a good fit even if the
wearer didn’t look like a skittle; and Brother Rupert
stood around in a degage way in a bright blue tie. By
the way, Gov. Carington wears bright blue ties and tan
hoots, with a slim toothpick in his rosebud mouthlet.
On 14th nisi, hostilities ceased, and Lady Carington
handed the gorgeous prizes (which your Sappho sincerely
hopes won’t turn out to he plated) to the proud, pumped
winners, who looked about as untidy as one would wish to
see. The lady players especially seemed not to wot of (he
great moral effect a clean face has on the nasty public,
and the vistas I got (of course there's no harm in my
saying it) of clocked hose in strange hues unprocurable in
the city marts, points the moral that if cleanliness is next
to what’s-’is-name, lawn tennis is very close to the pepper.
There was quite a throng on the decisive day, and of
course the championship skipped over the border, and I
do hope the Cup winner will drink out of it en route,
and so he enabled to whisk ii past (he Alhury Hora-
tius as a “ toilette-necessary. Lady Carington—who
presented the prizes from a railed and carpeted space
on the lawn—wotc fawn woollen with guipure braid
over a r \n velvet skirt, folded front of rose pink chiffon,
with stn» bonnet adorned with folds of fawn velvet and
wings. rs. Acland Hood rode (with Captain Acland
Hood and brother Rupert) sporting a baggy covert coat
over a crimson vest, with a straw sailor hat on top—a
mixed-up suit that suggested the cruel idea that she
didn’t pack her habit this trip. I can’t chronicle all the
sweet things in furbelows I was surrounded with, since a
girl with bronze hair and eyes in a sheath of rust-brown
oloth and a crimson rose in her brown velvet hat took all
the attention I had to spare from the weird and compli-
cated wriggling of the prize-winners, who mostly seemed
to feel their position keenly. Due girl I especially rccol
leot executing a reverse-action duck-curtsey with a rose
pink kerosene-lamp in either hand.
Regarded as a frock-show, the Carington ball on 14th
inst. at Sydney Exhibition, was a very successful festivity,
but looked upon from a dancing standpoint one dips one’s
finger in dust to write its epitaph. Spying about the room
it really seemed all women and, owing to the fact that we
were literally six to one, many a nice girl languished discon-
tentedly with her train crumpled up under her and no
chance to peacock even for a promenade. The naval men,
who were there in great force and rig, did double duty,
certainly, and it was a wonder the Baron did not
come to the rescue, instead of sitting as gracefully as he
knows how on the dais, surrounded by rows of seated
loveliness, brandishing blank programmes. But some of
the gowning was really breathless. Lady Carington
looked like a pretty airy fairy in bodice and train of pure
white brocade, over a jupe of white gauze striped with
silver, with clusters and trails of pale-pink roses and
leaves, and diamonds sparkling everywhere, from her
tiara to her white satin shoes. Mrs. Aciand-Hood wore
electric-blue, with grey lights about it, mingled with soft
greyish crepe. Lady Charles Scott affected “yallev, a
colour which Mrs. Burdekin also appeared in, the simple
silken gown made without a train and relieved with black
velvet bows on the shoulders and right hip, bands of black
velvet inside the corsage, diamond necklace ; Miss
Walenn flesh-pink silk ; Lilian Seccombe, black lace and
moire sash ; Mrs. Andrews, stylish black gown with front
composed of frills of silk chenille fringe relieved with
clusters of myrtle. A lovely attire worn by Miss Marks
was in pale sulphur-yellow silk, the bodice adorned with
folds of chiffon and gold lace, plain skirt designed from
the feet in gold fern pattern ; harlequin points of chiffon
edged with three frosted gold balls which must have re-
vived most unpleasant memories in many present.
Another nice vision was a white silk with panels of white
tulle, and dotted about on corsage and skirt with tiny
bouquets of velvet leaves in autumn shades—but she
shouldn’t have carried a pink fan Mrs. D. C. Bell wore
soft pink satin brocade, en traine, over a skirt of brocade
and lace in stripes, bodice decorated with unmounted
roses in pink and cream, pink plume fan. Another hand-
some pink gown, worn by Mrs. Payne, was in pale dawn
pink with silvery pattern brocade forming the bodice
and train and panels, over a skirt of tinted tulle
with lines of soft pink roses, panels edged with pearl pas-
sementerie bodice adorned with unmounted roses.
There ! are not these mouth-watery ? And I could go on
for an hour with others equally tasteful, yet there are one
or two little things your Sappho wants to point her finger
at. One was a large stout lady gotten up A la Hamlet’s
mother in black velvet and stagey yellow satin puffs and
slashings with a gilt crown with a feather in it adjusted
rakishly on a howlingly wiggy wig. Another was a long
“might-have-been” sort of charmer, who had trimmed
herself sadly in autumn leaves. Indeed, numbers had
autumn-leaf trimming and bouquets, and considering the
question quite calmly, I think these sere relievements are
generally too cruelly en suite for society wear. For the
rest the floor was easy, the music eccentric, the supper
complete, and the decorations beautiful, though why they
didn’t have rendezvous, anil so save a lot of worry, isn t
apparent up to date.
The last night of “David Garrick'’ at Sydney Royal on
16th inst. was remarkable for the dense throng of
humanity all over the house, things being S.R.O. before
the orchestra had tuned up-a state of affairs that the
intrinsic merits of “David" didn’t exactly merit. Of
course Bellew was the star of the evening in white satin
breeches and a severe cold, but Mi’s. Potter, who had
only to look nice and swoon gracefully when the dramatist
got stuck for a word, did not appeal, and even her ward-
robe failed as a source of solace. In act one she wore a
clinging robe in soft white stuff with long sash of pale-
blue and a pelerine with long ends at the hack in black
gauze and lace; hair touzled, of course— into a few of the
wildest of tails held in by a pale-blue hand. In the second
part of act two, when she changes her gown for the sub-
jugation of Garrick, the toilette becomes more interesting.
The bodice and train are in pale iron-grey brocade with,
at the right side, a panel in dawn-grey satin brocade lined
witli primrose, the jnpc of soft white material fall-
ing in soft, plain lines; bodice edged with a deep
frill of white laoc with long, puffy sleeves in the
white; belt and long bow-and-ends hanging at the
front of primrose ribbon, grey shoes, white gloves, a
screen-fan in white feathers, and a yellow bow crowning
her mussed-up coiffure. In the last act the frock is dove-
grey just touching the floor, with tops of sleeves in grey
velvet, with V-shaped folds in soft white material forming
the front of the bodice ; archamlogically correct black
cape, which made the sylph-like artiste look all angles,
and a big black hat which had a bad habit of going off at
a ridiculous tangent in moments of reciprocated passion.
There were several pretty gowns in front. Frances
Saville wore a dreamy confection in ivory satin and lace,
with a few dewy-looking diamonds about it. A brown
spotted net, with full shoulder-puffs and a garnet neck-
lace, looked uncommon and pretty. There were several
theatre-parties in the house—the largest being lit up by
the presence of Captains French and Helbert, who had
got off the vice-regal chain for once in a way.
Too big a crowd for the badly-ventilated “ great Hall ’’
assembled at Sydney University on 13th inst. to hearken
to U.M. Society’s rendering of Cowen’s “ Rose Maiden.’>
The platform was tastefully gotten up with swaying reeds
and pot-plants, and all the choristers wore roses with
pretty effect. Mrs. Macdonald, who sang divinely, wore
flesh-pink and white with corsage bouquet of roses,
though why she added a bright blue aigrette in her golden
locks isn’t evident ; while Miss Naylor wore ivory silk en
traine relieved with black velvet. The chorus-singing
was very powerful and decidedly church-choirifled, hut
they have a silvery tenor up there, who, if he sang with
less anxiety, would he as sweet as a had in a tree, which,
is more than can lie said of the leading tenor, who was com-
pletely flabbergasted from the start, and sang horribly
flat whenever things became critical. By the bye, I was
surprised to see the initials “ V.M.S.” inscribed on a
groggy blue banner “ Urns,” Is punctuation obsolete at
the ’Varsity '!
The revival of tliat dismal Jimmy", “Two Orphans,” at.
Her Majesty’s on 17th inst. was attended by a dotted d.c.
and a crowd everywhere else, Olympia being especially
full and vociferous. In this lachrymose stage narrative
the men have all the dressing, Jewett wearing pale-blue
satin and lashings of silver lace as if he ate his dinner in
it; while Sweeney, in primrose satin with a pink flower,
looked like a superior china ornament given in exchange
for old do’. Indeed the rage for purple and line linen led
the management to clothe the sob-strangled Pierre in
stag-brown velveteen of the newest description, which
looked rather lugubrious when contrasted with Mamma
Fouchard, who was apparently robed in old dish-cloths.
There was no dressing in the d.c., though a red cashmere
with neck cut star-shape, bonnet with red velvet and filled
in with red gauze joining a high collar of velvet-full
sleeves to the elbow caught in with a band of velvet,
looked festive and sensible. After all, what is the use of
donning deeollettee and a pink rose during the winter
when theatres are very cold comfort and you have to sit
bundled up in plush and fur like an Esquimaux or risk
the neuralgia?
I have received from Paling and Co. a copy of “ La
Favorite ” valse written by Eille Norwood and dedicated
in Mrs. Brough, a sepia tinted presentment of whom
adorns the title-page. Now, when Mr. Norwood is acting
he isn’t very, very good, but when he gets entangled in
three-four time he is ’orrid. The as it were,
of “La Favorite” valse is reminiscent of a demented
daddy-longlegs learning the Highland fling, and when the
composer can’t think of a chord for the bass he simply
scores the same octaves tor both hands, and the result is
jerky. The valse, however, has one great merit—it is
very short.
I was glad to see that the fourth Menk-Meyer recital on
15th Inst, was hearkened to by- a full house which keenly
appreciated the melody, but, as for dressing, there was
the same “ penny plain” on one chair and “ twopence-
colourcd” on the next, which seems always tlie rule in
the depressing atmosphere of the Y.M.C.A. The pro-
gramme was, as usual, comprehensive, commencing with
Wagner and ending with a valse, the “ Tannhauser March,’
which was vociferously encored, while the fact that
Rubinstein’s “ Toreador en Espagnole,” a gay and giddy
“ piece,” made people smile, then laugh outright, proves
how thoroughly the spirit of the thing was interpreted by
Miss Menk-Meyer, who was the recipient of much ttorr.l
compliments, and looked charming in cream silk and lace
relieved with gold passementerie.
Sydney Suburban Bicycle Club sports on the Association
ground on 17th inst. was a soppy, sloppy sorrow which
seemed too limp to get lively even when the sun shone.
The course was churned mud, and the competitors must
have cleaned their wheels next day with gags on to pre-
vent the heat of their remarks setting fire to their hair.
Under the damp circumstances I suppose I shouldn’t
criticise the performers’ attire, hut I can’t help mention-
ing a youth with a Percy Lyndal profile, a pink shirt and
a dirty dog’s-eared collar, who evidently didn’t believe in
wasting clean linen in a Scotch mist. The dressing on the
lawn was of the “ won’t spoil” order, though some of the
complexions would have been wrecked by a drop of rain.
A pretty dollish girl wore sage-green Russell cord with
sage-green velvet sleeves, and a little terrier in a big,
black muff. Lots of men said they longed to be that
terrier, and they got offended when someone told them
not to fret, but to hurry along and offer themselves as the
muffs.
Speaking of music, Ann’s Montague, who is stopping
at the Hotel Metropole, and is engaged to support the
Halids during their Sydney season at the Centenary Hall,
York-street (when Miss Naylor will he the accompanist),
received a pretty anonymous compliment in the shape of
a colossal and beautiful wreath of white flowers an hour
after she landed in Sydney. No card was attached, and
whether it was the combined effort of a society or not
hasn't been discovered so far.
That ancient proverb about drowning the dog of ill
repute fits in well with regard to hospital-nurses, who are
not all convention ally-attired Betsy Prigs. Nobody is so
illiberal as to believe that there are not generous self-
sacrificing natures shrouded in the nurse’s cloak and veil,
but that there arc also quite reverse attributes under the
same prim gowning goes without saying. These piebald
nursings are induced by the recent remarks of an ex-nurse
to whom I talked the other day. Said she: “Just when
you think somebody will die before to-morrow and you
make an appointment on the chance they always hang on
to spoil you. Do you know what I used to do ? If they
were really given up I used to stop the nourishment once
or twice—after all it was kinder to. shorten their suffer-
ings !” T know I shall get into trouble over this, but it is
a solemn fact all the same.
Yours affectionately,
SAPPHO SMITH.
George says that Huxley goes to Nature
for his science and to the Duke of Argyll for his
economics.
Some members of the N.S.W. Assembly
persist in smoking in the library. Your ordinary
smoker is as selfish as a pretty woman.
The Bulletin much regrets the cab-
accident by which Premier Parkes’ leg was
broken. As the fracture is a compound one its
ultimate issue may be more serious than the tough
old man anticipates, and will probably, for a con-
siderable time, pospone Ids ambitious projects.
However, it may safely be wagered that the
veteran—whose ease, by the way, is in the hands
of Dr. Maurice O’Connor —will re-appear in Par-
liament at no far distant date.
According to the report presented at the
forty-first annual meeting of the Australian
Mutual Provident Society their business is largely
in excess of that of the preceding year, and is,
with two exceptions, the largest year’s business
yet transacted. Claims have been paid on the
deaths of 040 members, amounting to h0''0,025,
and the accumulated fund, despite those deduc-
tions, now amounts to the noble sum of £8,011,020!
A meeting will be held in August for the purpose
of amending bye-laws.
“ Mr. Phil. May, a young artist who spent
some years in Sydney.” The Social Gossip letter
in Saturday’s Argus mentions that Phil, has pro-
duced “ a superb piece of draftmanship and por-
traiture” for St. Stephen’s Review and then
goes through a mean pretence of explaining that
he is a young artist who spent some years in
Sydney. The man who wrote that letter, and the
editor who passed or altered tin; reference to Phil.
May knew perfectly well that he came out under
engagement to The Bulletin, that his name is a
household world wherever The Bulletin goes,
which is all over Australasia, and that, moreover,
he is still under engagement to the paper.
The W.A. Bulletin, a few-weeks’-old
print, which calmly and even in a godfathcrly
way refers to this paper as its “ namesake,” pub-
lishes a long string of unacknowledged clippings,
prose and verse, from The Bulletin. The column
is headed with an inkstand and entitled “ Ink-
-Bplashes.” “ Paste splashes,” ’dear brother,
would sound ever so much better. Which reminds
us that a certain Sydney paper is now printing as
original a lot of stories cribbed from the Yankee,
but badly and unblushingly localised. The
Bulletin will take a very early opportunity of
pointing out where these enterprising people, who
never spend any money on hiring clever pens, but
only on leasing big shears, get their matter from.
While on this subject, we may as well tell an in-
structive yarn which we heard the other day. One
of Australia’s best all-round journalists—a man
whose compeers may be counted on the fingers of a
hand and a-half, lately took a story to the editor
of a rich N.S.W. weekly. “Itis a pity,” senten-
tiously remarked the editor, “ that one can get
from local writers hardly a line of well-polished
Australian fiction. To procure such matter one is
forced to go to England. Some of those who
write in England tales, the plots whereof are laid
in Australia, have, it is true, but the smallest per-
sonal knowledge of this country--yet, how clean-
cut is their work ! Jam sorry to have to decline
your story.” The writer sadly pocketed his MS.
and departed. He gave the tale another name
and sent it to England—and had it accepted by a
magazine. From that magazine it was clipped by
the N.S.W. editor who had declined it in manu-
script, and who after all duly published it in his
paper on the clr ap.
Latest Cablegrams.
(FROM THE BULLETIN'S OWN CORRESPONDENT.)
OBITUARY.
London, Monday.
*Mr. John Buuyan, author of “ The Pilgrim’s
Progress ” and other humorous works of fiction, is
dead,
SIMS REEVES.
London, Monday.
Mr. Sims Reeves, the eminent tenor, has left for
A ustralia by the Orient Company’s steamer
Ormuz.
Later.
Owing to a severe cold and hoarseness, Mr.
Sims Reeves was unable to leave by the Orient
Company’s steamer Ormuz.
THE ENGLISH DERBY.
London, Monday.
The recent trial gallops of Kirkham and Narel-
lan, the Australian colts, have been adversely
commented on by the sporting press. They are
not expected to go to the post.
Later.
In the latest betting on the English Derby
Kirkham is quoted at 20 to 1 on.
SERIOUS ACCIDENT TO MR. HENNIKER
HEATON.
London, Tuesday. .
A serious accident occurred to-day to Mr. Hen-
niker Heaton, M.P. for Canterbury. As he was
passing the Nelson Column in Trafalgar-square,
where some workmen were repairing the figure at
the top, a large piece of masonry fell on to his
head. The stone was shattered into a thousand
pieces, and it is expected that the honourable.
member will be detained in his room for a few days.
A ROYAL ACCOUCHEMENT.
London, Tuesday.
H.R.H. P rincess Wilhelmina of Sossichschop-
fen has been safely delivered of triplets. H.R.IL
Prince Ludwig Karl of Sossichsehopfen has left
for a long tour in Siberia.
THE COLONIAL CRICKETERS.
AUSTRALIA v. ALL-ENGLAND.
SPLENDID STAND BY THE COLONIALS.
London, Tuesday.
It is estimated that at least 80,000 assembled at
Kennington Oval to-day to witness the commence-
ment of the match between the Australians and
the All-England Eleven. Tire Englishmen won
the toss, but could make no stand against the
deadly bowling of Turner and Ferris, and were all
disposed of for the paltry score of 584. The field-
ing of the colonials was much admired, there being
only 40 extras. Dr. Barrett and Murdoch opened
for the visitors. ' determined stand was made,
the score being 11 when Murdoch was caught.
Gregory was bowled first ball. His defence was
much admired, and he was loudly applauded on
returning to the pavilion. Much dissatisfaction
was expressed when Blackball] was given out for
knocking his wicket clean out of the ground, and
breaking the wicket-keeper’s leg while attempting
to cut a ball from Lohmann. The umpire’s
decision was hooted. Ferris joined Barrett, but
soon retired, giving a Ferris simple catch to point
which was accepted. The Englishmen’s fielding
w'as very loose at times. At the conclusion of the
day’s play, the score stood at 87 for (5 wickets,
Barrett being not Out 2, an invaluable contribu-
tion to his side. The match is regarded as a sure
victory for the colonials.
AUSTRALIAN ART.
London, Tuesday.
Mr. Pott Boyle, the distinguished Sydney
artist, has obtained a prominent “ line” position,
in the Royal Academy, for his stirring picture,
“ The Narrabeen in a Southerly Buster.’’
THE NEW AUSTRALIAN PRELATE,
London, Wednesday.
The Reverend Melchisedeoh MacSnoozer has
accepted the appointment to the See of Barney’s
Creek.
Later
The statement that the Reverend' Melchisedech
MacSnoozer has accepted the-appointment to the
Sec of Barney’s Creek is premature. He declines
it until guaranteed 50 per cent, on all collections'
in the diocese.
LITTLE TOTTIE SMITH.
BRILLIANT RECEPTION OF THE CHILD
PIANISTE.
London. Wednesday.
Little Tottie Smith, who was sent to London to
compete her musical education, gave a brilliant
recital at the Steinway Hall last night. Her
rendition of “ Hadyn’s Surprise ” is described by
the Musical Times as phenomenal.
A SENSATIONAL DIVORCE.
London, Thursday.
A rumour is being freely circulated amongst the
London clubs that a sensational divorce-case will
shortly occupy the attention of the Courts. The
petitioner is the proprietress of a whelk-stall in
the Borough-road, and the names of a well-known
undertaker, two policemen, an octogenarian
bishop, and a notorious demi iiionduirir arc men-
tioned. Some startling evidence is expected.
A ROYAL DONATION,
London, Thursday.
Her Most Gracious Majesty the Queen has for-
warded a donation of £5 to the relief fund in aid
of the distressed poor of London.
Later.
The report that Her Most Gracious Majesty
the Queen has forwarded a donation of £5 to the
relief fund in aid of the distressed poor of London
is incorrect. The amount should have read ss.
* This cablegram has appeared in a previous edition.
The “ christening” advertisement humbug
is spreading in Sydney. We see now chronicled
in the daily papers the bygone baptisms of whole
families, with their “Ivanhoe Fitzaltamonts ”
and their “ Rosalie Blanche Violets.”
A N.S.W. book-agent, having been re-
pulsed from the residence of a Clarence River
farmer with sundry agricultural implements such
as hoes, scythes, and spades, requested legal per-
mission to carry a revolver, which was refused.
We shall next hear that the Clarence River
people have obtained permits to shoot bock agents
on sight.


A GHOST
is not a photograph, nor a photo, a ghost—but a good photo, is a
(rue reflection of the original. For high-art photos, go to the
London Palace of Art, 10 i’r!; treet, Sydney. Country photographers’ work from developement
to completion executed at lowest [,rices. Bromides a speciality, Staff of 'artists kept for working up.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Theatre Royal. . ..... “ Mdlle. De Dressier.”
Her Majesty's “ Two Orphans.”
Criterion “ Fun on the Bristol.”
School of Arts Macoabe. ’
Darunoiu’Rst Skatino Rink.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Theatre R0ya1... , “After Dark.”
Princess’s J. L, Toole.
Opera House, “ Paul Jones.”
Alexandra “ Private Secretary.’.’
New Bijou “ Caste.”
St. George’s Hall Cogills & Harry Rickards.
Town Ha 11.... HalK-Neruda Concerts.
Atiienupm Bairnsfather Family.
That somewhat incoherent, but highly
dramatic, story of the “Two Orphans” lias been
well-staged at’Sydney Her Majesty’s. The stage
arrival of a four-horsed diligence from Normandy
with the lachrymose sisters is a good example of
that straining after realism which threatens in
time to reduce stage-pictures to a mere photo-
graphic delineation in which so much is clearly
outlined that little can be suggested. This ten-
dency towards naturalism will inevitably lessen
the circle of stage-admirers, for the skilful sug-
gestions of a genius strike a responsive chord in
natures the most dissimilar, while a clearly-defined
situation might attract one and repel another.
William Rignold plays the burly, sensual idler,
Jacques, with picturesque ease and wonderful
agility. In his praise we need only say that the
performance is quite up to his Jack Saxton
(he has not yet quite got rid of the York-
shire accent), but as he first made the acquaint-
ance _of a Sydney audience in that character
it will probably continue to be the one with
which they will always most closely associate
him. The Pierre of A. E. Greenaway is such a
monotonous-toned person that one has little sym-
pathy with his misfortunes, though in the last act
he almost got away from his tendency to preach.
As Armand, Henry J ewett plays a small part effec-
tively. We have had several stage-duels in Sydney
recently, but his rapier encounter with the Mar-
quis dePresies( Henry Hoyte) is by a long way the
best managed. Roland Watts-Phillips is a capable
Henrietta; but as Louise, with her true and
sympathetic singing voice, Bessie Rignold ex-
ceeded most folks’ expectations. As the abbess
who does evil that good may come, Mrs. Rignold
scores heavily, and the Frochard of Maggie Oliver
is a good performance, though it would bear the
infusion of a little more devilry. Maribel Green-
wood as Marianne achieves her best up to date,
and Bessie Colville is much more endurable than
in “Now-a-Days.”
*# * *
The representation, at Sydney Royal, of
Mnskerry s adaptation, from the German, we
believe, of the hypothetical story of an actor whose
drunkenness was assumed and not real, afforded
Kyrle Bellew, as David Garrick, an opportunity
to make a decided hit. He is also to be com-
mended for the artistic feeling which prevented
him returning to bow his acknowledgments for
the ovation accorded him on his exit in the middle
of the first act. Later, a change of costume caused
someone to remark that he only wanted a telescope
to look exactly like Captain Cook, but, fortunately
for him, the gods failed to apprehend the resem-
blance. As Violet Gresham, Mrs. Potter made a
good deal out of a much smaller oppor-
tunity than she is usually afforded, but
her ingenuousness in the first act was too
evidently assumed. Helen Kinnaird, whose role
hitherto has been simply to look lovely and speak
haughtily, as Mrs. Rumbellow showed conclu-
sively that low comedy was her strong point, and
that she was not too enamoured of her good looks
to disguise them temporarily ; and the Selina of
Emma Gwynne was a good companion picture.
“Camille’’has been running during the week to
good houses, and will be displaced on Saturday by
the English version of “ Mdlle. Bressier,” a
story of the Paris Commune. By the way,
we unthinkingly styled scenic-artist Edmonds
“Vaughan ” last week, but this is excusable, as
certain people who know him more intimately than
we do sometimes call him “ Gordon.”
* * *
Business improves at Sydney Criterion,
though the “ Bristol ” boom there can never attain
Melbourne dimensions. John E. ’s little sketch ol
the tramp, albeit it is merely one of makeup,
gesture and attitude, is admirable, and his song
“ Miss Mulligan’s home-made pie” is already a
household word. The “Sappho trio” of the
Misses Whiteford, Salinger and Arline is a big
draw for dudes and bald heads, and the Crawford
Bovis high kicking and tumbling makes our bones
ache, Marion and Bell spoil an otherwise good act
by their introduction of the vulgar, humourless,
balloon-bellied business.
«- m i’rf *-
At Sydney School of Arts. Maccabe has
changed his programme, and is now playing his
original mellow-drama, “ Virtue Victorious,” in
which lie fights duels with and makes love to him-
self, and, in fact, sustains all the characters from
the gory villain down to the village maiden with
changes in sight of the audience. He has a slight
attack of influenza, but that only adds to the
realism of his snivel in the “Wandering Minstrel.”
As the monologuist points out, they could take in
more people, nevertheless, as times go, the season
is successful.
* -* & *
At Bondi Aquarium the Faust family are
showing to fairly good business, for whenever the
sun shows out the pretty little nook in the cliffs
attracts a big share of the public’s “ooftish.”
Manager Wyburd informs ns that he has arranged
a specially gorgeous programme for Queen’s Birth-
day.
*» * *
At Darlinghurst Skating Rink business,
despite the oft-repeated assertion that skating’s
good days are over for a time, is up to the average
of last season.
* -* *
The old, old story of J. L. Tooio is drag-
ing along through a seventh chapter at Mel-
bourne Princess’, and tho writing on the wall of
that elegant establishment—where strong shows
flourish like pepper-trees, and weak ones wither
like oysters exposed to a hot wind —can be inter-
preted without the assistance of any Daniel. The
parlous condition of the dress-circle last Saturday
has shocked the management into reverting to a
five-shilling fee for a portion of the house which is
expected to fill, nay, to overflow, on first nights.
But as the three-shilling stalls were likewise
tolerably deserted, it seems improbable that the
half-crown reduction up above will improve
matters. considerable percentage of Saturday’s
circle audience consisted of the Postal Conference
crowd, who came to support Toole as an inte-
gral portion of the British Empire, and a
silken bond binding us to the dear old
mother-land. Deakin, Dan O’Connor,'M’MiJlan,
and their red-faced satellites would have willingly
paid one pound sterling a-piece for the privilege of
flaunting their belief in Hinglish institutions.
They were “distinguished” types of the charac-
ters scattered around, most of whom appeared to
be suffering from a stern sense of Imperial duty.
Half-a-dollar more makes no difference to that
class of customer; nor will two-and-sixpence less
affect ordinary show-goers, who have reckoned up
Toole’s company, once and for all, as the feeblest
lot ever placed upon the boards of a theatre where
excellence in play, or players, has been the pretty
general rule hitherto.
» # *
“The Serious Family” is a loosely-con-
structed chestnut, which many people have
sampled already, and the rest are not likely to
trouble about, Toole's interpretation of Amina-
dab Sleek is amusing, clever, and well-sustained,
but it doesn't—being a comparatively minor part
offer sufficient compensation for the damage
done by those around him. Billington and Miss
Johnstone, the only names worth mentioning, are
not much good in this instance, and the others are
a little worse than the interpolated Miss Constance
Deorwyn, who makes a melancholy attempt to
pose as a giddy child of 16. Miss Deorwyn, how-
ever, has sufficient sense of the fitness of things
to sport a ball-dress which passes muster behind
the footlights, whereas Mr. Toole's leading lady
stalked on in something that looked like a white
cotton sack taken from last week’s washing. This
dingy caricature of a cheap night-gown was
openly asserted to be a rare and costly ornament
by the stage mother of the wearer, who has pro-
bably found time to get it mangled ere now.
Mark Lemon’s farce, “ Domestic Economy,” pro-
vides a lively finish to a very thin entertainment.
Here Toole disguises himself as a tater-digging
farmer in knee-corduroys, but the indelible stamp
of the Cockney is on his whole performance, and
his tater-hoemg is the merest fiction. At time of
writing they talk about reviving “ The Don ” for
Toole's last week, when his old adherents are
bound to rally up and make a respectable attempt
to fill the house. But surely the time has come
when tho “ star ” should consider the moral claims
of the Williamson-Garner firm to utilise some of
their idle, competent hands in place of the —well,
let us say, mediocrities who have wrought such
cruel injury to the present season. A fair all-round
representation of two comedies like “Chawles”
and “ The Don,” with “ Ici ” and “ Off the Line ”
thrown in, might keep the pot boiling vigorously
in Sydney for the appointed six weeks.
* * i!:-
“After Dark” is having a good time at
the Royal, as times go, and may possibly last over
another week. There is a deal of mad waggery
about the serious incidents, a world of humour in
the rescue of a drowning super, from that good old
tank, and a rich fund of merriment in the railway
train. It is quite worth the money to see Herbert
Flemming and Miss Williamson take a midnight
walk arm-in-arm for the purpose of discussing
family matters with a couple of swell-mobsmen
whom they seem to pick up by the roadside.
“ After Dark ” is lurid with the light that never
was on land, or sea, and may be recommended to
all and sundry as a piece of insulting behaviour in
several scenes.
'D
“ Caste ” runs away until further notice at
the Bijou, and “Paul Jones ’ appears to be more
immortal than ever at the Opera House. To-night
(Thursday) brings “ The Term of His Natural
Life ” to a triumphant finish at the Alexandra,
where to-morrow a version of Rider Haggard’s
“ Jess ” will make Miss Lily Dam pier’s benefit’a
matter of unusual interest to the admirers of that
undeniably nice young creature, who is unusually
interesting on her own account, pure and simple.
The double crowd at S* 1 . George’s Hall are doing
well ; the Battle of Waterloo has started its second
year with every appearance of prolonged pros-
perity to follow; some South African bushmen
(one of whom is alleged to be of the opposite gen-
der) have taken the place of the Mites at Kreit-
mayer’s Waxworks ; and the Bairnsfather Family
of Scotch vocalists, &c., are to make a first Mel-
bourne appearance at the Athenaeum this (Thurs-
day) evening.
* * #
Charles Halle and his gifted wife start
their concert-tour at Melbourne Town Hall this
evening, our old friends Charles Turner and Miss
Annis Montague being extra items in a classic
programme. Such a combination can scarcely fail
to knock the musical world, and if Norman-
Neruda doesn’t fiddle a large audience into a state
of heavenly rapture it will be because the Governor
and suite are conferring their cold, flabby patron-
age upon the occasion.
* *- *
That dearly-beloved insect, “ The Private
Secretary,” is about to suffer further indignities
from Uncle Catterrnole, at the Alexandra. Frank
Thornton, Harwood, Annie Taylor, Brown, Gates,
and the other good people from Sydney are billed
for a popular-prices season of six weeks, com-
mencing on Queen’s Birthday. They may reckon
upon crowded houses all the time, although the
first-night rush will be delayed by the counter-
attraction of a military torchlight-procession,
which is timed to fool around the city just when
the respectable shows are hauling their curtains
up. This procession, moreover, is expected to
make a lot of people too sick to enjoy themselves
afterwards.
* * *
Sylvia Grey tried her hand instead of her
toes at a comedy part in “ Pedigree ” produced at
Toole’s Theatre recently. Fair Sylvia was the
semi-serious heroine, and a candid London critic
intimates that she had better stick to the light
fantastic business.
Melbourne theatre-goers have been at a
loss to discover the motive for a sudden outbreak
of insanity in tho local Standard on the subject
of shows. Until lately the issue of treacle, under
the name of theatrical criticism, from that enter-
prising periodical was enough to nauseate.
Suddenly the treacle supply was cut off, and one
night last week there appeared the cranky para-
graph .aforementioned. It started with the trans-
parent misstatement that “ Melbourne theatres
are drawing fair to middling audiences,” when at
least two of them were, and still are, filling
every night. The madness reached a climax in a
ridiculously unjust summing-up of “Paul Jones,”
which all round work of art was alleged to be
merely a poor pantomime, apart from the perform-
ances of Snazelie, Nellie Stewart, John Gourlay,
and Madame Burton. George Leitch, Hudson,
Wood field, and Aggie Kelton, were, for instance,
pantomimists as compared with a subtle artist
Uko G outlay, who is certainly always clever—and
always a clown. Further down in the paragraph
came a miserably weak explanation of its why and
wherefore. “ The Bijou, according to advertise-
ments in morning journals, is doing well.”
m * *
“The Ruling Passion,” an incongruous
mass of indescribable claptrap lasting through
five weary acts, has been received at the Adelaide
Royal with shouts of delight by the gallery boys.
Bland Holt, as usual, makes the most of his
opportunities for a gorgeous and realistic scenic
display, and the balloon ascent is a most imposing-
feature, Maggie Knight fairly runs over all her
previous performances in the leading female
character in this dark drama, wherein she has a
most trying part, which taxes her physical ener-
gies to the utmost. Bland Holt, A. Norman, A.
R, Lawrence, A. Glover, H. R. Roberts, Mrs.
Bland Holt, and Nita Steele put in good work
with other characters. Mrs, Gown-Trotter has
postponed her Adelaide season. Harold Ashton
is in Adelaide arranging for the appearance of
Harmston’s Circus,
At Poverty Point.
In the favcc “ New Lamps for Old,” Jerome Iv. Jerome
(who, by the way, scored a bis success with “ Three Men
in a Boat—to say nothin" of the dog,” a book which has
much in it worthy of Mark Twain in his lighter moments)
has struck upon a most whimsical and original situa-
tion, which sets London in a roar. For a certain purpose
one of the characters conceals himself in an hotel lift,
which, after the manner of all lifts, and a good many
clergymen, goes wrong, but in a new direction. It starts
going up and down at an alarming rate, carrying the un-
fortunate wretch with it. For half an hour or so this
continues, while the play goes smoothly on in the fore-
ground, the miserable occupant of the lift coming in
sight every minute or so in a new attitude of rage and
despair.
Alas ! poor Warwick ; we slew ’em well!
Much of the success of “Paul Jones” has been due to
its being played on Gaiety Co. lines. Local gags up to
date dla pantomime ad lib. Snazelle is the king of
gaggists—and a master of by-play.
A Melbourne theatrical scribe lately wrote how he had
once, many years agone, made jelly of Toole’s hat at an
Edinburgh supper. Next post came a note from Johnnie
saying that he “well remembered the incident referred
to,” and hoped that the scribe would call to “ talk over
old times.” The scribbler is doubtful as to whether this
is a Toolian ruse to stick him up for a new hat, with com-
pound interest added at the rate of 10 per cent.
A Melbourne paper says that Sala has found a new
marble man at Orange. This, time the defunct is in a
sitting posture. The last marble man was lying.
A London paper says that Lusoombe Searelle has sold
out his South African interests for £24,000 and gone to
storm London with his opera, “ Bobadil,” which he means
to run for a whole year, whether it pays or not. Searelle
first stormed Australia in the old wooden shod which did
duty for a theatre in Watt-street, Newcastle, as pianist to
a small variety company, which had for its chief attrac-
tion a performing monkey.
Dampier, “ the-Gentleman of the Profession,” stands
high with his theatrical company, in Melbourne, for the
style in which he has kept a large number of people
together for a series of years—actors and actresses,
musicians, stage-hands. This is not at all the general
style of things nowadays. Kudos to Alfred, who has re-
ceived a genuine complimentary benefit.
A sandwich-board man died in London lately, and left
a record of how he had lived on seven shillings a week.
Unfortunately, like the Frenchman’s horse, he died just
when educated to live on one straw a day. At one time
he had a weekly income of £lO, but fell through drink.
Strange to say, the last boards he carried were for “ Tire
Profligate,” a play.
Nothing pleased J. R. Greville so much in Paris as the
grand military spectacle of Skobeloff, at the Hippodrome,
ft would take immensely in Melbourne and Sydney. 11. P.
Lyons has long been thinking of something of the kind, a ■
step beyond the old-time Mazeppa.
Sylvia Grey has appeared at Toole’s theatre as the in-
genue in “Pedigree.”
The Sydney Centennial organ is bound to give trouble.
A leading Melbourne organist declares there is no musician
good enough to grind it when Best has gone.
Kate Vaughan, now ballet-dancing at Covent Garden,
was learning her business at the old Grecian with Mrs.
Conquest nearly twenty years ago, at the time when the
lovely Alice Dunning Lingard was columbine there.
A London paper proposes that they should balance the
fasting man, Suoci, at the Aquarium with a glutton—some
one who’d eat fifty live rats, several helpings of boarding-
house—ahem—er—“ stew,” or something equally inviting,
at a meal
“ Diplomacy ” is sometimes shown, as B. and B. will
testify, when “ Money ” is “ Caste ” away.
Madame Alboni recently sang the great aria from “ La
Favorita ” at a benefit concert at the Theatre Duprez
without notice to fill the gap caused by the non-arrival of
Sybil Sanderson, the American singer, “ as no other
living contralto could sing it.” She sang in a sitting
position, and is in her 64th year.
“Joan of Arc” is about to he burlesqued for Nellie
Farren.
Pinero divides plays into drama and farce. Comedy, he
asserts, no longer exists, as manners which are the subject
of comedy have disappeared.
Alleged that David Christie Murray is writing a comedy -
drama—scene laid in Otago.
During Mrs. Berkley’s illness, Minna, in “Little Lord
Fauntleroy,” was played by Irene Darrell. At latest
advices Olive Berkley’s illness—she has had a growth cut
from her throat—had prevented her making a Christ-
church appearance.
Maokneyhas been singing “The Whole Hog or None ”
for nearly thirty years. That is a good run.
A well-known elderly actor and his young wife have
cut the connubial painter by mutual consent. He does
not seem to be much exercised in his mind concerning
the fact. On the contrary, he has taken another lady to
his starched-shirt bosom, which proceeding is considered
an amicable adjustment by all parties concerned.
Actresses do not suffer from congestion and relaxation
of the pharynx—actors do. “ Yes,” says Morell Mackenzie,
“and actors smoke, while, as a rule, actresses don’t,”
It is again reported that Gilbert and Sullivan have dis-
solved partnership.
Saint Saens’ opera, “ Asoanio,” lately produced at the
Grand Opera, Paris, has created a sensation, not so much
because of the beauty of the music as of the novelty of
the story and in consequence of the mysterious disap-
pearance of the composer.
Drury Lane matinee for the Theatrical Fund netted
£5OO. The entertainment commenced at one and did not
terminate till after six.
The Holloway-Howe Dramatic Company opens at Syd-
ney Gaiety on Queen’s Birthday in “Judge Not,” by
Frank Harvey.
Johnny Solomon has a live 20ft. Queensland alligator
on view in George-street, Sydney.
Sydney University alleged students having lately spoilt
a public theatrical performance by their bowlings, it
was remarked that it would have been just retribution
had the front seats at the concert recently given in Syd-
ney University Hall been occupied by the most genuine
brand of Woolloomooloo larrikins.
What Sara Bernhardt did in Paris was only to read the
part of the Virgin, without costume, and Garnier similarly
read the part of Christ. Sara also read Mary Magdalen.'
The Bairnsfather family is a squad of Scottish singers
that has turned up in Melbourne, worthy successors of
the Kennedys. When old Kennedy was on the railway-
platform at Salt Lake City, a pawky Scotchman came vip
to one of Kennedy’s sons, and says he : “ Eh, but yer
favvther ought to be a Mooromon' Elder, for he’s got a
graund belly.”
The Cornstalk has immortalised “Goody” by placing
him in their gallery of “ men on whom there are no flies.
Tho natty manager appreciates the compliment *■)
highly that he threatens to sue them for libel. The
Cornstalk is a chirpy little penny Sunday morning paper
which is selling “ like hot cakes.”
Delicious little Signorina Rehotta.ro had a benefit this
week at Hawthorn Town Hall.
The popular baritone, Tommy Gilpin, who goes to Mel-
bourne to fill an engagement at the Victoria Hall, receives
a send-olf at the Sydney Catering Company ’s on Thursday
night (22nd May).
The underground, backdoor business has been success-
ful, and Churohhill Otton, whose services, like those of
Hazon, were given gratuitously, has never even been
thanked by the committee, who have now r.aken in hand
the Sydney Orchestral concerts. As Mr, Otton has the
Halids-in hand, he need not be sorry.
11. C. F. Moodie, the Imperial crank, once
of Adelaide Portonian, is now re-publishing his
book on the “Zulus in South Africa.”
A Cook town firm, which lately trusted a
bland Chow on the Palmer to the extent of £l5OO
on pro. notes, which were duly dishonoured, took
legal proceedings to recover. Meanwhile, John
disposed of the goods at “million prices”for cash
to such an extent that, in a short time, his store
(a bark humpy) was practically empty. One day
he was asked why ho did not replenish his stock.
To which the heaven-born financier replied—“No
more want ’em stock. I tint: bailiff come dilectly
- he sell ’em altogether stock left here (pointing
to three rotten cheeses and an assortment of empty
jam-tins). Hi yah !” And then he left.
Editor Bulletin. Hear Sir,—Some good-
natured friend of mine informs you that I have severed
my connection with tho Herald. This is not correct.
The Herald severed its connection with me. I write this
in sorrow, not in anger : my work for two years past, as
“ Demos,” has been before all Australia. Allow me to
add that the name “Demos” was invented by Editor
Winter, not by myself, as I refused to adopt any ' mra-de-
plume. This may appease some people who have com-
plained that “ Demos ”is no Democrat. “ Demos” is to
me no more than John, but 1 have taken it as an integral
part of my name. I didn’t rush to the Evening Standard
-or anywhere, but wait till the Herald blandly and
affectionately opens its columns again. My service was
only 18 years, not 20 years. Yours truly, Herbbb
Palmer. Herald office, Melbourne, 15th May, 18.00.
Some people are easily amused. Says a
Northern paper
Governor Norman has a good memory for faces. On
his arrival in the colony last June, he had an escort of the
Charters Towers Mounted infantry. He then noticed the
military bearing of some of the men, and, on his arrival
here the other day, asked Captain Russell for Sergeant
Medley. The captain immediately took the Governor
round to the sergeant, with whom the Governor shook
hands, and complimented him on his appearance. It ap-
pears that when the Governor was in Townsville last year
there was considerable difficulty experienced in keeping
the crowd back. One of the crowd caught the bridle of
the horse Sergeant Medley was riding, and clung on to it.
The sergeant quietly dropped the butt-end of his rifle on
the offender’s head, and sent him to the grass. The
Governor, who witnessed the proceeding, was very much
amused, and he apparently had not forgotten it, though
it is nearly 12 months since it occurred.
The joke was, of course, a purely professional
one as also was that perpetrated by the Mel-
bourne surgeon who sewed up the bulldog forceps
inside a living patient.
A Sydney daily paper wishes to know why
the Melbourne suburban lots on whic h the A.M.P.
Society has lent money have not depreciated in
value, while Sydney lots have done so ? For a
journal that is largely in the confidence of real-
estate agents, this desire for information is naive
and innocent—very ! But we’ll gratify it. There
has been no all-round depression in Victorian
property value; there has simply been a collapse of
boomers’ inflations. The few great speculators,
who lived upon each other—witness the Harold
Sparks and James revelations—when the canniba-
listic limit was reached, came tumbling to the
ground like Humpty-Dumpty from his wall. A
great many house and landowners kept their lots
out of the speculators' pool, because they wanted
them for themselves and their children. That is
why their properties have retained their worth.
And why Sydney suburban properties have gone
down is due to the fact that their owners have had
to put them into the market to keep the wolf from
the door. Which the Victorian is -under no
necessity to do.
Hon. J. L. Dow has done a wise thing in
at last resigning his portfolio pending the decision
of the criminal charge preferred against himself,
and his co-directors of Mirams’ Permanent Build-
ing Society’. An imputation of tho kind is so
grave and serious that no Minister of the Crown
against whom it was levelled should have retained
office longer than was necessary to pen his resig-
nation and get it accepted. This much can be
said without any expression of opinion as to the
truth or falsity of the charge. The commonsense
of the community revolts against a Crown
Minister, a man whose hands hold one of the keys
of State, standing in the dock even for half-an-
hour during a preliminary examination. The
Bulletin doesn’t put a high price on the dignity
of office, but it nevertheless believes that a mem-
ber of a Cabinet should be “above suspicion;”
and a police-court criminal summons is rather a
tangible way of expressing doubt as to a man’s
integrity. The Bulletin hopes that Mr. Dow
will again have his portfolio returned to him, and
his resumption of power will be then all the
sweeter because he temporarily abandoned it in
deference to good taste. Both for his own sake
and the sake of the Victorian Ministry does The
Bulletin wish this. Dow, being a successful press -
man, is brainy. The Victorian Ministry minus
the journalists would flop to the intellectual zero.
Verily, brethren, there is a letting in of
the waters and a shaking of the dry bones. The
great triennial parliament of the Australasian
Wesleyan Methodist Church lias spent a solid
week in discussing the retention of the class
meeting as a test of membership. Shades of John
Wesley, of Thomas Jackson, of Jabez Bunting—-
think of that! To put on its trial that holy insti-
tution, this century-old piece of machinery, and to
apply to it the criticism of the modern spirit
is, in truth, a glai’ing sign of the times.
The old-time Methodist thought as much of
the class-meeting as he did of the New Testament,
and almost as much as he did of “Wesley’s
Hymns.” To him it was the means of grace.
Now it has come about that it is only patronised
by the insincere and the hysterical among the
“connection.” One minister after another got
up and declared that the best people in his church
repudiated the class-meeting and all its ennfes-
sional-like characteristics, and that to retain them
in the “connection” he had to report them as
members when, in fact, they were not so-in short,
that lie had to practically “ cook ” his returns in
order that he shouldn’t lose his best people’s con tri
butions tothe collection-plate. And thocbnsequence
is that the class-meeting will go before long. All
this might have been foreseen when once the lay
element obtained a voice in the- ■ conferences ”of
the body. The solvent of the modern spirit affects
the laity first and then the priestly caste. The
modern spirit scorns formularies, and hates creeds,
and detests tests of every sort, for it objects to get
• into a mental cul-dc-sdc. The insurrection against
the class-meeting is but an episode in a wider
revolt.


a.saunders,
Watches and Jewellery arc like good wives—they are
worth having.
•Send tor Illustrated Price List. Post Free,
Hi 3 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
(Nearly opposite Railway Station)
Factories; Liverpool and London, England.
£2 10s. English Lever, Two 'tears’ Guaranteed.
£3 10s. English Lever, “The Unequalled," full cap.
£4 English Lever, ‘‘ The Special,” compensated.
20/- The Unequalled Keyless Watch. 2(»/-
Country Residents and Visitors to Sydney call or send
o A. SAUNDERS, SI3 George Street (nearly opposite
Railway Station), SYDNEY.
Old-fashioned Jewellery modernised to perfection. 1 le-
sions free. Daiims and Co., Kincr-street Arcade.
The United Status is » nation of traders. I wo-
thirds of the ljusiness men of the Republic use
Estekbkook’s “Falcon” Pen. Samples free at
all Stationers.
How Muster-Master Stoneman
Earned his Breakfast.*
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
An unpretentious building of rough-hewn
stone standing in the middle of a small, stockaded
enclosure. A doorway in the wall of the building
facing the entrance-gate to the yard. To the left
of the doorway, a glazed window of the ordinary
size. To its right a paneless aperture so low and
narrow that were the four upright and two trans-
verse bars which grate it doubled in thickness no
interstice would be left for the admission of light
or air to the interior. Behind the bars-a face.
Sixteen ho\jrs hence that face will look its last
upon the world which has stricken it countless
cruel blows. In a corner of the enclosure the
executioner’s hand is even now busy stitching into
a shapeless cap, a square of grey serge, the cal-
lous wretch crooning the while lie plies packing-
needle and thread, the monotonous refrain :
Oh, gaily swung he
From the brave gallows-tree.
To-morrow the same hand will use the cap to hood
the face, as one of the few simple preliminaries to
swinging the carcase to which the face is attached
from the rude platform which is in course of
erection against the stockade fence and a bare 20
yards in front of the stone-building.
» # *
The building is the gaol—locally known as
the “cage”—of , a small township in the
midlands of an Australian colony which has
gradually grown up round the convict *’ muster-
station.” The time is five o’clock on a September
evening, 05 years ago. At nine o’clock on the
following morning, Convict Glancy, No. 17,927,
transportee ex ship Pestoujee Bomajee (second
trip), originally under sentence for seven years
for the theft of a silk handkerchief from a London
“swell,” will suffer the extreme penalty of the
law for having, in an intemperate moment, ob-
jected to the mild discipline with which a genial
and loving motherland had sought to correct his
criminal tendencies. In other words, Convict
Glancy, metaphorically goaded by the wordy
insults'aud literally by the bayonet-tip of one of
his motherland’s reformatory agents—to wit,
Road-gang Overseer James Jones —had scattered
J. J.’s brains over a good six square yards of
metalled roadway. The deed had been raptur-
ously applauded by Glancy’s fellow-gangers, all of
whom had the inclination, but lacked the courage,
to wield the crowbar that had been the means of
erasing their particular tyrant’s name from the pay-
sheets of His Britannic Majesty’s Colonial Penal
Establishment. Nevertheless and notwithstanding
such tribute of appreciation, H.B.M.’s Colonial
representatives, police, judicial and gubernatorial,
thought it rather one to be censured and had,
accordingly, left Convict Glancy for execution.
This decision of the duly-constituted authorities
that person had somewhat irrelevantly (as it will
seem to us at this enlightened day) acknowledged
by a fervent “Thank God !”-—an ejaculation the
more remarkable as never before in his convict
history had he ever linked the name of the Deity
with any expression of gratitude for tin- many
blessings that he enjoyed in that state of
penal servitude to which it had pleased that same
Deity to call him. On the contrary, he had con-
stantly indulged in maledictions on his fate and on
his Maker. He had lesolutely cursed the be-
nignant forces with which the System and the
King’s Regulations had surrounded him, and he had'
failed to reverence as he ought the triangles, the
gang-chains, the hominy, the prodding bayonet,
and the other things which.would have conduced
to his reformation if he had manifested a more
humble and obedient spirit. No wonder, there-
fore, as Chaplain Ford said, that it had come
about that he had qualified for the capital doom.
Upon this doom, in so far as it could be repre-
sented by the gallows, Convict Glancy was now
gazing with an unflinching eye. On this Septem-
ber evening he stood at his cell-window looking on
half-a-dozen brown-clothed figures handling saw,
and square, and hammer, as they fix in the earth
a sturdy upright, and to that a projecting cross-
beam ; as they bind the two with a solid tie-piece
of knotless hardwood ; as they build a narrow
platform of planks around the gallows-tree; as they
fasten a rope to the notched end of the cross-beam;
and as they slope to the edge of the planks, ten
feet from the ground, a rude ladder. All the.
drowsy afternoon he had watched the working
party, though Chaplain Ford hud stood by his
side droning of the grace which had been withhold
from him in life, but might still be his in death.
He had felt interested, had Convict Glancy, in
these preparations for the event in which he was
to act such a prominent part on the morrow. He
had even laughed at the grim humour of one of
the brown-garbed workers who, when the warder’s
eye was off him, had gone through the pantomime
of noosing the rope-end round his own neck—a
little joke which contributed much to the (neces-
sarily noiseless) delight of the rest of the gang.
Altogether, Convict Glancy reflected as dusk
fell, and the working party gathered up their
tools, and the setting sun tipped the bayonets of
the guard with a diamond iridescence, that he
had spent many a duller and more trying after-
noon. If the Chaplain had only held his tongue,
the time would have passed with real pleasantness.
He said as much to the good man as the latter re-
marked to the warder on duty in the cell that he
would look in again after supper.
“You may save yourself the trouble, sir,"
quoth, respectfully enough, Convict Glancy.
“ You have spoilt my last afternoon. Don’t spoil
my last night! ’
Chaplain Ford winced at the words. He was
still comparatively new to the work of spiritually
superintending a hundred or so monsters who
looked upon the orthodox hell as a place where
residence would be pleasantly recreative after the
Settlement and Norfolk Island; and the time lay
still in the future when, being completely cm-
Imitod, he would come to regard it as a very
curious circumstance indeed that Christ had
emitted eulogistic reference to the System from
the Sermon on the Mount. Consequently he
winced and sighed, not so much-Atq do him jus-
tice—at the utter depravity of Convict Clancy as
at his own inability to reach the reprobate’s heart.
But he took the hint; he mournfully said he
would not return that evening, but would be-with
the prisoner by half-past 5 o’clock in the morning.
# # *
When Chaplain Ford entered the enclosure
immediately before the hour he had named, ho at
once understood, from the excitement manifested
by a group assembled in front of the “cage,”
that something was amiss. Voices were uttering
impetuously, almost shriekiugly, fearful words,
and hands swung lanterns—the grey dawn had
not yet driven the darkness from the stockade—and
brandished muskets furiously. A very brief space
of time served to inform the revei’end functionary
what had gone wrong.
Convict Clancy had made his escape, having
previously murdered, with the victim’s own
bayonet, the warder who had been told-.off to
watch him during the night. This latter circum-
stance was, of course, unfortunate, but alone it
would not have created the excitement, for the
murder of prison-officials was a common enough
occurrence. It was the other thing that galled
the gesticulating and blaspheming group. That a
prisoner, fettered with ten-pound chains, should
have broken out of gaol on the very eve of his
execution —why, it was calculated to shake the
confidence of the Penal Commandant himself in
the infallibility and perfect righteousness of the
System. And if popular and authoritative belief
in the System was shattered, where would they be ?
The murdered man had gone ou duty at 10
o'clock, and very shortly after that he must have
met with his fate. How Clancy had obtained
possession of the bayonet could only be conjec-
tured. As was the custom during the day or two
preceding a convict’s execution, he had been left
unmanacled, and ironed with leg-chains only.
Thus his hands were free to perpetrate the deed
once lie grasped the weapon. Clancy, on his
escape, had taken the instrument with him, but
there was no doubt that he had inflicted death
with it, the wound in the dead man’s breast being
obviously caused by the regulation bayonet.
Possibly the sentinel had nodded, and —a sudden
VERE HAD IT GONE?
HIS VENERABLE FATHER : “MEIN COTT! YOU ASK ME TO HELP YOU MIT
MONEY! YOU HAD TWO FIRES MITIN DE LAST EIGHTEEN MONDS;
VERE NOW HAF YOU BUT DER MONEY?”
wrench of the prisoner’s wrist and a sudden stab
had extended his momentary slumber into an
eternal sleep. The bayonet had also been used by
Clancy to prise up a flooring-flag, and then to
scoop out mu aperture under the wall, the base
stones of which, following the slipshod architec-
ture of the time, rested ou the surface and
were not sunk into the ground. The work
of excavation must have taken the convict several
hours, and must have been conducted as noise-
lessly as the manner of committing the crime it-
self. A solitary warder occupied the outer guard-
room. but he assorted that he had heard no sound
except ill" exchange of whistle-signals between
the dormitory guard at the convict-barracks (a
qiiarter-of-milc away at the rear of the gaol-
stockade) and the military patrol. The. night
routine of the “cage” did not insist upon the
whistle-signal between the men on duty, but they
passed a simple “All's well” every hour. And
this the guard room-warder maintained lie had
done with the officer inside the condemned cell,
the response being given in a low tone, from con-
sideration, so the former thought, for the sleeping
convict so soon to die. Of course, if this man was
to be believed, Clancy must have uttered the
words. K was not the first time the signal which
should have been given by a prison officer had been
made by Iris convict murderer.
The murder was discovered on the arrival of the
relief watch at live o’clock. The last ‘ All well
was exchanged at four. Consequently the escapee
had evidently less than an hour’s start. The
scaling of the stockade would not bo difficult oven
for a man in irons, and once in the bush an experi-
enced hand would soon find a method of fracturing
the links.
It must be admitted that this contumacious
proceeding of Convict Clancy was most vexa-
tious. Under-Sheriff Hopewell, now soundly
reposing at the township inn, would bo forth-
coming at 9 o’clock with his Excellency’s warrant
nr Ins hand to demand from Muster-Master Stone-
man the body of one James Glaney, and Muster-
Master Stoneman would have to apologise f° r hi.
inability to produce the said body. Thedithcn y
was quite unprecedented, and Stoneman, as ne
stood in the midst of his minions, groaned audibly
at the prospect of having to do the thing most
abhorrent to the official mind establish a piece
“Such a thing was never heard of!’ he cried.
“A man to bolt just when he was to be turned
off ! And the d d hypocrite tried to make Ins
Honor and all of ns think he was only too happy
to bo scragged. It's too d——d bad !
It certainly did seem peculiar that Clancy, who
had apparently much rejoiced at the contempla-
tion of his early decease, should give leg-bail just
when he was to realise his wishes. He bad told
the judge that “ he was glad they were going
to kill him right off instead of by inches, and yet
he had voluntarily thrown off the noose when it
was, virtually round his neck. Was it the mere
“cussedness ” of the convict nature that prmnptea
the escape? Or, was it the innate love ot me that
becomes stronger as the benefits of living become
fewer and fewer ? Had the craving for existence
and for freedom surged over his despair and reck-
lessness at the eleventh hour? , . ~ , ,
Such were the inquiries which Chaplain I qrd put
to himself as, horrified, he took in the particulars
of No. 17,927’s crowning enormities from the
hubbub of the group. ■ , , ,
“Damn it!” said the Muster-Master at last,
“we are losing time. The devil can’t have gone
far with those ten-pounders on him. I swear i
won’t touch food this day till I get him. VVe 11
have to put the regulars on the track as well as
our own men. Warder Briggs, report to Captain
White at the barracks, and—”
Muster - Master Stoneman stopped short.
Through the foggy air there came the familiar
sound as of a convict dragging his irons. vv hat
could it be? No prisoners had been as yet loosed*
from the dormitory. Whence could the noise
Droceed
Clink-clank— s-sh dr-g-g clink clank
dr-g-g. The sound drew nearer, and Convict
Clancy turned in at the enclosure gateway un-
escorted. He had severed the leg-cham at the
link which connected with the left anklet, but
had not taken the trouble to remove the other
part of the chain. Thus, while he could take his
natural pace with his left foot, he dragged the
fetters behind his right leg.
A moment of hushed surprise, and then three
or four men rushed towards him. The first that
touched him he felled with a blow.
“ Not yet,” said he, grimly. “I give myself
up, Mr. Stoneman —you don’t take me!” And
then Convict Clancy laughed, and held out his
hands fur the handcuffs. He laughed more
heartily as the subordinate hirelings of the System
threw themselves upon him like hounds on their
prey.
“No need to turn out the sodgers now, Muster-
Master—-not till nixie o'clock.” Once more his
hideous laugh rang through the yards. “ You
had an easier job than you expected, hadn’t you,
Stoneman, old cove?”
Muster-Master Stoneman had been surprised
into silence and into an unusual abstinence from
blasphemy by the re-appearance quite unprece-
dented under the circumstances -of the doomed
wretch. But the desperado’s jeering tones
whipped him into speech.
“Danin you!” ho yelled. “I’ll teach you to
laugh on the other side of your mouth presently.
You’d better have kept away.” He literally
foamed in his mad anger.
“ Do you think I couldn’t have stopped away if
I'd wanted to, having'got clear? A lofty scorn
rang out in the words. “ Hut do you think I was
going to run away when I was so near Freedom as
that?” And the wretch jerked Ids manacled
hands in the direction of the gallows. “You
d d fool !”
No one spoke for a full half-minute. .Chen :
“Why did von break gaol then?” asked the
Must -r Master.
*• /; / n'ishcl t<> sf.i't 11 a Juiinf </euii‘c ' was
the reply.
* * *
Muster-Master Stoneman was as good as
his word. Death couldn’t drive the smile from
Clancy’s face. That could only be done by one
thing—the lash.-
When next the it wms to
order the prisoner a double ration of cocoa and
bread. And ; “ Briggs,” ho continued, “while lie
i, getting it, sec that the triangles arc rigged. ’
“ The triangles, sir ! ” exclaimed Officer Briggs
and Convict Clancy together.
“ I said the triangles, and I mean the triangles.
No. 17,927 has broken gaol, and as Muster-Master
of this station, and governor of this gaol, and as
a magistrate of the territory, I can give him 50(1
lashes for escaping. But as he has to go through
another little ceremony this morning I’ll let him
off with a ‘canary ’” —(a hundred lashes.)
“ You surely cannot mean it, sir ! ” exclaimed
Parson Ford.’
“ Mean it, sir ! By C ,1 11 show you I mean
it,” replied the M.M., whose blaspheming no pre-
sence restrained save that of his official superiors.
“ Give him the cocoa. Warder Johnson, give the
doctor my compliments, and tell him his attend-
ance js required here. Tell him he’d better bring
his smelling-salts-—they may be wanted,” he
sneered in conclusion.
“ You devil ! ” cried Clancy. The reckless grin
on his face faded to the pallor of the death he
was so soon to die.
As Muster-Master Stoneman turned on his heel
to prepare the warrant for the flogging, he looked
at his watch. It was half-past six,
* # #
At seven o’clock the first lash from the
oat-o’-nino-tails fell upon Convict Clancy’s back.
At 8.30 his groaning and bleeding body, which
had received the full hundred of flaying stripes,
lay on the-pallet of the cell where he had murdered
the night-guard but a few hours before.
At 8.45 Under-Sheriff Hopewell, who bad been
apprised while at breakfast of the murder and
escape, appeared on the scene escorted by Ins
javelin-men. This gentleman, too, had been
greatly perplexed by Convict Clancy’s proceed-
ings. “Really it was most inconsiderate of the
man,” lie said to the Muster-Master, “1 do not
know whether I ought to proceed to execution,
pending his trial for this second murder.”
“Oh,” said the latter functionary—flicking with
his handkerchief from his coat-sleeve as he spoke
xi drop of Convict Clancy’s blood that had fallen
there from a reflex swirl of the lash; “your
duty is clear. You must hang him at nine o'clock,
and try him afterwards for the last crime. ”
And as Convict Clancy, ex Pestonjee Bomajee
(second), No. 17,927, was punctually hanged at
9.5, it is to be presumed that the Under-Sheriff
had accepted this solution of the difficulty.
At 10.15 a mass of carrion having been huddled
into a shell, and certain coronial formalities hav-
ing been duly attended to, Muster-Master Stone-
man bethought himself that he had not break-
fasted.
“ I’ll see you later, Mr. Hopewell,” he said, as
the latter was endorsing the Governor’s warrant
with the Coroner’s verdict ; “ I’m going to break-
fast. I think I’ve earned it this morning.”
Prick Waru.no.
"(All Rights Reserved.)
A True Bill.
Dr. Morgan T. Wills, a recognised American
authority on cerebral disease and insanity, writes :
“ It is well for us to know that the emotions cause
mole unhappiness and crime than any other
function of the brain. Human beings are governed
by their emotions, and it is well that they should
be, though it is emotions, such as anx'ety, fear,
sorrow and love that wear away the brain.
I consider that eight hours are sufficient
for a man to use his brain, because if he exceeds
that time he becomes nervous and fretful, and
an exhausted brain is an irritable brain. You
may not feel the evil effects of the stress of brain
work at the time, but you will sooner or later,
when it will be too late. The men that work at
night with their brains are the ones that expose
themselves to danger and death, which will surely
come unless the great strain on the mind is
lightened.
Any man that neglects the first warning of a
brain or nervous system that is becoming ex-
hausted, overtaxed or about to break down, is not
only a fool but a criminal. These signs are not
many, but they tell the story of coming dangers
only too plainly. Headache, sleeplessness, irrita-
bility of temper, neuralgic pains about the head
and heart, unrefreshful sleep, nervous dyspepsia,
dull eyes, heaviness of the head, and stupid feel-
ing after meals, worry about tribes, unreasonable
anger, tingling and numbness in the limbs, cold
feet and hands, Bushed face and burning ears,
palpitation of the heart, and irregular, weak and
unsteady pulse. When you note these symptoms
beware; the brain and nerves are about to break
down, and it may be insanity, perhaps death.”
For all such troubles we recommend Clements
Tonic. This is a scientific specific, brain and
nerve food, and positively repairs the ravages of
overwork, time, disease, &c.
If Clements Tonic was not genuine, would the
Kiama Reporter call it “The remedy of the
day,” or the Tamworth News say it was “ A
specific for all diseases of debility,” or the Goul-
burn Post say it was “a Radical Cure,” ortho
Newtown Chronicle say it was “a remedy of
approved efficacy,” or the Nepean Times call it
“a really first-class Tonic,” or the Macleav
Argus say “It is a reliable article,” or The
Bulletin say “It is a remedy of the highest
value,” or the Grafton Grip say “Praise is
superfluous,” or the Bingera Telegraph desig-
nate it “A valuable medicine,” or the Presby-
terian say, “It can be confidently prescribed?'
Yet all these papers have printed these words in
connection with Clements Tonic. The Press is
far to conservative to endorse an unproved article,
but we can show hundreds of similarly eulogistic
comments from the press similar to the above.
We don't need to guarantee when wo can get
disinterested parties to speak of Clements Tonic
as the journalists do.
Send for our Medical Guide, free on receipt of
your address, F, M. Clements, Newtown, Sydney.
Dunedin Exhibition has gone otf in a
blaze of fireworks, and everybody has been feted
most fetidly, and lauded most I’audaoiously ex-
cept those to whom all the real honour is due.
’Tis over thus ! The man of money gets the
mark—the men who do the work are merely un-
considered trifles. Thus Mr John Huberts is
fi'lril. and lauded, and banqueted, and by and bye,
it is rumoured, 1 for Most Splendacious will confer
upon him tin- MediterraneanOrdoi of Michael and
(Jeorge, originally invented to beguile (“ cheap
defence,'' you know) the pirates of the lonian
Islands. Meanwhile, poor little Tvvopony, who
is unjustly satirised as “ an itinerant breeder of
puppies,”'because he happens to be hot on fox-
terriers, and Jules Joubert, who really ran the
show, and but for whom the whole thing would
have been a failure, are passed over or only dimly
and distantly recognised—
o ao wags the world away,”
The final crush came off on a recent Friday night,
when nearly 200 people gorged themselves to the
verge of apoplexy in honour of “our Hooeits.
who is a Scotchman, yon know, and therefore
popular, and a member of a wealthy money-
lending, station-owning, hard - squeezing firm,
and therefore and consequently highly-respected
in Otago, which is Scotland “ writ large, with
marginal notes and references. Ac.. &c.


m
ESCW
(Bo
INC
Celebrated
V *
m
v^»
AD
SHEWED tWRESSU
lUROI^A-.INDj
jSofo Q gents. F. B.WHEELER &
Cadies’ Silver Watches, 85s. Dahms & (Jo., King-street
Arcade. •
This is an authoritative pronouncement by
a U.S. cardinal :
A Oatliolic must not only believe what the Church now
proposes for his belief, but be ready to believe whatever
she may hereafter propose. And he must, therefore, be
ready to give up any or all of hie probable opinions as
soon'as they are condemned and proscribed by competent
authority.
Just link this together with the cabled statement
of last week that the Pope contemplates making
the acceptance of his temporal power a matter of
dogma, and a portentous result is arrived at.
BUBGIIS, 3U.CKBOA.RDS,
VICTORI-fILS;
\i >1 A\ I !•' .\ < I T T r lilli; S’ I'lilCKS,
Svli«.l lor < , iAfal‘'gU',.:s ;ui'l IViJ** to
THK i\ JB. WHEELEU 111.,
265 Clarence Street. SYDNEY.
Personal Items.
Home Ruler Dillon is an L.R.C.P.
The Dailey memorial is still in futurity.
Pastor Jelferis says : “ Australia cleaves to
me.” How much of it?
The Feed’em of the City of London ha s
been conferred upon Stanley.
Michael Davitt will conduct a new London
paper called the Larouk World.
The difference in weight between Lady
I lopctoun and Lady Oarington is 421bs.
Mr. Whittaker, late chief of the reporting
.staff, is the new sub-editor of the Melbourne
Idvknina Standard.
Willoughby Andrew has now, it is said,
entirely recovered his reason. But for all that lie
will have to stay in gaol for life.
Should Speight resign the Victorian Rail-
way Commissioner ship, at least three members of
the Assembly will struggle for the billet.
Naturalists assert that the tongue of the
giraffe is a foot and a-half long. A. G. Taylor is
lovingly known in Mudgee as the “ Giraffe.”
Explorer Stanley is going to be married.
Before he gives his hand to any white lady let us
hope he will wash off his hands the black blood.
Edward Skinner the well-known Sydney
bookseller, is one of the oldest pioneers of Port
Phillip, having gone there with immigrants in 1840.
The late Archbishop Vaughan gave George
Robertson a standing order for all volumes of ser-
mons, no matter what school of thought they came
from.
Mr. 0. J. Roberts, C.M.G., one of the
leading lights of the N.S.W. liquor-trade, says
that drunkenness should be a solid reason for
divorce.
A Rockhampton paper says that “ the
charm of Governor Norman’s manner seems to
tone down even the habitual bearishness of his
Ministers.”
Captain Webber, who commanded the ill-
fated Ly-ee-moon when she was wrecked at Green
(Jape some years ago, now superintends a N.S.W.
country hospital.
Dr. E. M. James, who goes to Europe,
thus severs a 37 years’ connection with Melbourne
Hospital. The Doctor was amongst the lucky
ones at Broken Hill.
Rev. D. M. Ross, airing his Australian
experiences in the Dundee Advertiser, comments
on the absence of such excellent Christian com-
forts as twopenny drinks.
Akhurst, the pantomime writer, while on
the Melbourne Press, used to delight in writing
half-a-dozen articles at once, on the most diverse
subjects. It kept him from gushing.
A music-hall cantatrice, who arrived in
Melbourne last year, seems to have changed her
name because it was too much like that of the
most famous female pickpocket in the city.
A Melbourne civil servant, who recently
retired on the grounds of “ lengthened service and
senile decay,” has just got married to a sweet
youngthiugand is honeymooning on a fat pension.
Rudyard Kipling is a wonderful new
young 'writer, on Indian subjects, particularly
military life and character. A volume of his
sketches has made a bigger hit even than did
Marion Crawford’s ‘“Dr. Isaacs.”
The Mayor of Hawthorn (Vic.) has been
made godfather to a horse. It isn’t clear for which
of the parties -the horse or the mayor—the com-
pliment was intended. The horse draws the local
tire-engine to scenes of conflagration and beer.
Professor Drummond, the explorer and
metaphysician, now on a visit to Melbourne, and
the late'Rev. J. T. Ewing, of Toorak, wen; school-
mates. The Professor witnessed Ewing’s will in
Glasgow many years ago. He came to Australia
just in time to attest his codicil.
A certain well-known N.Z. editor and
Exhibition man has a singularly cherubic face and
a pair of colossal ears. “ Look here, Blank,” said
brother-editor Gillon to him one day, “if you cut-
off your ears and stuck them on your shoulders
you’d make a d d fine angel. ”
A small weekly paper, published at a
country town within twenty miles of Sydney, is
edited by an inmate of a, local asylum for the
aged and helpless. He is a University man
(wrangler 8.A.) and a member of the English
Bar, and he is certainly a clever writer.
Queen Victoria has unveiled yet another
statue to Albert the Good. In 20 years the
British public will look at his numerous brazen
effigies, and not knowing anything much about
the man, will wonder what he was good for. Then
they will boil him down and make pennies of him.
Knatchbull, Mrs, Jamieson’s murderer,
was related by marriage to Sir Joseph Banks, who
accompanied Captain Cook to Australia. The
N.S.W. Agent-General recently purchased old
colonial papers from the Knatchbull family which
are now in the possession of the Colonial Secretary.
George Swanson, after whom Swanston-
street, the busy thoroughfare of Melbourne, was
named, is still hale, hearty and happy at the age
of 80 years. He arrived in Victoria 50 years ago,
and was present at the burial of Batman. The
“t” is wrongfully used in the spoiling of the
street,
Sara Bernhardt called at the head London
police-office about some stolen jewels, and insisted
on seeing the Chief of Police. An officer assured
her that she could not possibly see that functionary
without an appointment. “Why not? Why, f
can see the Prince of Wales without an appoint-
ment !” replied Sara.
Alfred Woolley, the lately-deceased Mel-
bourne merchant, arrived there in 1830, made a
fortune, went to England to see the Exhibition
of 1851, and was enticed back by the gold fever
He did not leave behind him over-much gold,
after 50 years’ work, but he leaves a golden name,
for no poor man or woman ever asked his assist-
anee in vain.
Lloyd, proprietor of the London Daily
Chronicle and of Lloyd’s Newspaper, was a
very remarkable man. He was over 70 when ho
created this new Chronicle, by infusing £150,000
into it, combined with a million's worth of brains.
He grew the esparto grass for his paper at his big
farm in Algeria, which supplied two Melbourne
papers as well.
Winter Irving, who has inexplicably be-
come transformed from Irving Winter, is a Vic-
torian peer, and lias given Sandhurst a piece of
statuary, by Ohas. Summers, representing a
mother and daughter fleeing from Pompeii. Sum-
mers is a native, of Melbourne, and works at
Rome, but he has not the genius of his departed
father, nor has Winter the genius of the late
“Jock.”
After a long and troublous life, Thadeus
O’Kane is dead. He was educated originally for
the R.C. priesthood, but turned out from the path
leading to that Church to strike out a rough bridle-
track of his own. He was a vigorous writer, and
one of the most independent journalists who ever
trod Australian soil. In his nature there was all
the wit of a clever priest and all the gall of a boss
Orangeman.
A well-known man now Hying in Sydney
had once the misfortune to look upon the rum
when it was red. One night during his spree he
was sitting up in bed with a loaded pistol, which
he kept ever by his side. The “ gun ” was loaded
and he was irresistibly tempted to fire at a mos-
quito which happened to alight on his foot, and
which he at the time and under the circumstances
took to be a kangaroo. Ho now goes about on one
leg only.
For the rising generation, which still
goes to the circus, the story of Marcus Clarke
treating old Birnie to a dinner at the Melbourne
Cafe de Paris may be exhumed. Marcus’
ALL MEN ARE BROTHERS.
POLITICIAN (to applicant for Government billet): “MY GOOD MAN, I WOULD DO
AS MUCH FOR YOU AS IF YOU WERE MY OWN BROTHER!”
APPLICANT (joyfully): “OH, SIR! I NEVER EXPECTED SUCH KINDNESS"
POLITICIAN: “BUT, MY GOOD MAN, I WOULD DO NOTHING FOR MY
BROTHER!”
“ regular ” meal was an eighteen-penny square one
there, good enough for the German Emperor. He
met Birnie outside, and asked him in intending to
provide an eighteenpenny one for him, too. As
soon as the Grand Old Classic was fairly planted,
he began to find out there were turtle soup, teal,
Chateau Margaux, early strawberries, and what
not, and Marcus had to part a guinea. Said
Birnie to a friend : “I have just dined, and to
think I should be indebted for it to that boy !”
We protest vigorously against the story, but there
it is.
Mr. Justice Mein was never a barrister,
but only a solicitor. By Queensland law all
divisions of the legal profession are amalgamated,
but by Queensland legal etiquette—the close guild
law of the Queensland Law Society—the barristers
hold themselves several cuts above (in quality, but
not often in earnings) the solicitors. Sir Samuel
Griffith, Q.C., has always been the chief con-
servator of the alleged “ rights ” of barristers, and
the leader in upholding the caste differences of
the profession : nevertheless, it was Sam Griffith,
the Premier, who turned his back on Sam Griffith,
I he lawyer, and broke through the guild etiquette
by appointing Mein, then Minister of J ustice, a
Judge. Sam's reply to his horror-stricken legal
confreres was —“lt is the law !” and the Devil’s
Brigade had to swallow it. Mein was a member
of the firm of Hart, Mein and Flower, and was
always regarded as a fair-spoken man. Lately he
has been much ravaged by military ardour and
rheumatics, which may account for a whole lot of
things.
POLITICAL POINTS
The blood-soaked old Mult ke says the next
war is to be long.
“Excuse us —not the House of Guelph,
but the House of Pelf.” —Northern paper.
The Melbourne Democratic Freetrade
Association is solemnly opened. Boss speaker,
Murray Smith. ’Nutf ced.
“ Bullets and the Bible must civilise
Africa,” says Chancellor Caprivi. Bullets come
first, but where does the Rum come in ?
Never, never, will there be a real alliance
between Republican France and Despotic Russia.
The tyrants will bo left to join up together.
The Age alludes to the Australian natives’
Association as “The A.N. Ass.” From this we
conclude that David Syme now scorns Purvesian
grovel and means to make the Age a Republican
paper.
Purves, Q.C., said in court on the first
day of the Premier Permanent case that he would
prove “ beyond the possibility of a doubt ’ that
Minister Dow’s “ connection with the swindle was
not honest.”
Lord Hartington states that he has no
desire to rejoin the Gladstonian party while it
encourages the views of English Socialists. And
nobody doubts that the future Duke of Devonshire
is speaking the solemn truth.
Parson Haunay, back from Australia, has
punched it into the London Congregational Union
that Australia insists on independence. No go,
he says, the half-measures. Just the same as it
was iu the United Sates a hundred years ago.
The venerable Dr. Knaggs, after nearly 40
years’ practice in Melbourne, did not die rich.
His estate was valued at £(1540, but then the Doc-
tor’s hand was constantly in his pocket, for he
gave money and food as well as advice and medi-
cine to hundreds of people.
The Grand Old Man’s mistaken ideas re-
garding Chinese virtues are accounted for by the
fact that he has never encountered that great
nation, save iu the form of Chinese ambassadors.
We should like to take Gladstone for a turn round
Lower George-street, Sydney, or Lilly Buck-
street, Melbourne, and then ask him whether
Chow virtue was too strony for Christian com-
petition.
Bamboiu'uc comes down in Punch on the
German Ka’ser. The monarch enters a black-
smith's shop with a basket of tools on his back
and the Crown yn his head. Says he to a Cyclops
hammering at an anvil- “I’m one of you.”
“Are you? ” says Cyclops, “ but you’ll have to
drop'your Crown first.” That is v/hat Bismarck
clearly perceives. It is fight or run. No com-
promise.
Of the fifteen lawyers in the N.S.W.
Legislative Council 13 voted in the division on
the Divorce Bill, seven for and five against. Of
the other throe, Septimus Stephen is in England,
Long was absent, and Salomons stepped into
the President’s gallery during the division.
Two ex-judges did not “stand by a brother
judge,” and all the Roman Catholics in the House
voted loudly with the noes.
It is rumoured that knighthoods are to be
conferred on Colton and Playford, also on the
democratic Premier, Cockburn, all of S.A.; also
on Morehead of Queensland; Pearson of Vic-
toria; and M‘Millan of N.S.W. The acceptance
of Imperial titles was not a matter of much
political significance in the bygone days when
ouug Australia was in his swadling clothes.
Their acceptance to-day means that the politician
bebaubled is an enemy to Republicanism, and an
adorer of the Imperial purple.
Sir Charles Dilke has annoyed the Imperial
swaslibucklers by suggesting that Australia is
practically beyond the reach of invasion by any
foreign power. True, O ! Charles. Hingland
runs the only navy which might, possibly, swoop
down upon this country in overwhelming force.
And the holders of Australian bonds will take
good care that Hingland doesn’t ever dream of
blowing away their interest-coupons. TFcVt all
right.
Democrats are always very jealous of tam-
pering with the Post-office. Some diamonds, sent
through the mail from abroad, were lately de-
tained by the Victorian postal authorities. This
kind of tiling is apt to lead to further developments,
as in the famous Stevenson Custom House cases,
when not Only were all George Stevenson’s London
letters detained, but also the private letters of his
wife and daughter. Those letters would have
been opened but for the public outcry.
Sydney Echo claims that flogging was the
means of abolishing garotting in London. If it
will look up Mr., P. A. Taylor’s Commons speech
on the subject, and the statistics therein, it will
have to admit at once that it has been building an
argument on a long-exploded myth. Flogging
did not put down garotting in London any more
than the gallows lias put down murder in
England. . Another favourite yarn of the Echo’s
is that capital punishment has been re-enacted in
Switzerland,
They officially burned the Christmas num-
ber of Foote’sblasphemous ” Freethinker in
Melbourne ; now the cry is taken up in N.S. W.,
and anyone publishing it is threatened with
“ blasphemy ” prosecution by the Colonial Secre-
tary. How moral Australia is, to be sure ! The
paper is circulated in England without let or
hindrance—but in this “ freer ” country its sale
means penal servitude. What would the clergy
not prohibit were the power theirs ? Despite their
efforts, Australia will yet be so free that people
will be at liberty to publicly worship Judas Iscariot
if they like.
The curious thing about the Anti-Divorce
agitation in Victoria is that the Act should have
been allowed to pass almost without pretest, and
now the mischief is all done, the clergy arc making
themselves ridiculous, urging rebellion against the
law of the land, as sanctioned by Her Gracious
and Sacred Majesty Queen Victoria, Vice-gerent
of God and Defender of the , Faith. Canon
Chalmers, celebrating a fashionable marriage (a
ten-guinea job of joy) in a crowded church, took
occasion to make an-Onslaught on Her Sacred
Majesty’s Law of the Land, worthy of Father
Slathery inveighing at Geelong against the Edu-
cation Act.
The mildewed Melbourne Argus hopes
that the Victorian Upper House “ will stand as
a dam in flood-time,” and thinks that “ if the
H ousts of Lords is not strong enough in Great
Britain for this purpose then assuredly there
•should be some other protection." The Argus
doesn’t suggest what the “ extra” should be. A
“ House of Royal Princes,” wo suppose? Then a
“Grand Bench of Hereditary Idiots;” and,
filially, a “ ,Sacred Temple of Mummies with at-
tached Automatic Phuno-telc-mano-auvo-smclio-
graphs.” As for the Victorian Legislative Council
“ standing as a dam,” the united damns of an op-
posed people would soon obliterate its dam pre-
sence.
X.S. \V. Attorney-(loneml Simpsons
Criminal Law Amendment Bill may be described
as a give-and-take measure. It proposes to give
the judges more discretionary power as to the
length of sentences. Should this provision bo
passed, as it undoubtedly will, the penalties im-
posed on prisoners convicted under the present
order of things should in justice be reviewed. It
also proposes to ensure the flogging of everybody
sentenced to the lash. Just now people ordered
to be tied up on certain dates to the triangles
often escape by reason of their being too sick to be
flogged. The Simpsonian proposition is presum-
ably to patch them up and flog them afterwards —
the limit being six months from date of conviction.
Which proposal will be received with hilarious
applause by the old Botany Bay element of the
community.
Dual' Bulletin, —The recent disaster at
Bourke—viz., the bursting of the dam —points
most uumistakeably to the utter futility of
attempting to meet the “ subtle advances of an
insidious foe ” with an undisciplined horde and no
leader. Of what use was it—the pouring hun-
dreds of navvies into Bourke without an engineer
to direct their work ? Fancy setting gangs of
navvies to work under Alderman So-and-So !
There was a thundering lot of rushing about and
any amount of “graft,” but of engineering skill
and the proper utilisation of that labour—well,
the less said the better.—Cur Bono.
The French campaign in Dahomey has
roused up a pathetic story of how a miserable
African rushed to destruction some fifty years
ago. In these days an enlightened scalp-hunter
sat on the Dahomau throne, and he conceived the
idea of establishing a bomb-proof army, and with
this end in view he ordered a quantity of im-
pervious breastplates for the use of his troops.
When they arrived he put a sample breastplate on
the prime minister, and then fired a cannon at
him; and when the smoke gradually cleared
away the remains of a foot were discovered on the
top of a tall palm tree, also about a pint of but-
tons, some hair, and the ruins of an eye. It said
a good deal for the late monarch’s intelligence
that lie used a politician to experiment on, instead
of wasting some citizen who had a greater chance
of being missed : and the example he set is worthy
of imitation. The Australian can muster seven
prime ministers in all, and if a cannon were fired at
six of them some valuable discoveries in gunnery
might ensue. It wouldn't matter much which six
were selected either, provided the camion didn’t
get damaged


Three wavs of exterminating
.. civilisiuo, the iTohle savage. ‘‘ lie
g-fts there (list the same.
London, Monday Night. —Speakingto-day
at the Cobiien Club Mr. Gladstone.deprecated
the exclusion of Chinese from the colonies
maintaining that they wore excluded because
colonial workmen dreaded their virtues and
s not their vices.
At titude of‘the \ ictoi'iaM
toward tile new Divorce Bill.
_ Pihst TdF.rnn.Aii Onf. : f sav,
mate, fan von t.oll me when- tbo
Oovfrnincnt. drill shed is 1
Si'foxn Ditto : “ \ «'s 1 fan,
hut it's closed.
]>', rst RO. “ Closed ’ Then
.1 reckon I must lake a first-class
Picket back to Melbourne ’
MaTTEAN, Friday.— A: the Police Court yet-
rerday. P.ard, agent .for tlu* “ Picturesque
Atlas” Comp-.nr. summoned a man named
Hackett for apsau r Complainant stated that
defendant held up a pistol and riu!> at* Uun
while another man flourished a hoe over bn
bead" when he went t > deliver tbo “Atlas.”
Hickeit stated that be had the ;u<»ol for flio
purpose of shooting crows, but admitted holding
Up lh& firearm and dun in a tin -a’cning
manner. The magistrate said he would dismiss
the inform*'ion on the grounds tbar complainant
bad no right tp remain on the premises after
being ordered ofl, and any person was justified
in using necessary means to eject an intruder
after caution had been piven to quit ih-j juv*-
mieea. Peard applied for alv w trial, hut the
Bench replied that this was not- allowable in
such a c.iso. Peard t then asked permission to
carry a rotoiror in future when delivering the
work, to which the magistrate retorted that he
would not commit himself to acc* le to such a
request. Much interest was the ca.-e
'' The Minister tor Public Instruction has
decided to purchase copies of Dr. Richardson's
work on “Drink .mil Strong T-hink” and to
place i copy dt the book in the hands of each
teacher ujid• r ihe ae; ailment. It \vili he uecos-
£.ii) for the teachers it* maKe themselves con-
fercant with the contents 01 the book so as to
fit cfelt.
i[ 11 A “ frjyht ful example 1
| 1 u will also bo syppliod oil
/• application to llru
\ department.
(Supposing John Chinaman had gone-to‘England instead of Australia.)
~ Aht. Gladstone 7 “Welcome to oui shares, John —by-thc-bye, what business you going
In for, John I .
John ; “ Dunno, nu bbc gloin be Gland Ole Man bienvby ! (A bill would soon lx intro-
duced into the Imperial ibu hainen't to deal
with this new menace to our liberties.
TH h C A-KVOF THE FUTURE,
* - t
Well, mister, 1 vo come to deliver that there
\V 01 k, jvhieh, mebbe, you mean to toll me you never
subscribed for.”
“ That Li'un in the path ” and bow to o-et
rid of him.
THINGS IN GENERAL.


“THE LION IN THE PATH”— OR, PARTIES’ ATTITUDE TOWARD THE FISCAL QUESTION.
“LET US FEDERATE FIRST, AND W E CAN SETTLE THE FISCAL QUESTION AFTERWARD.”
It is said that the lion will flee Lota any one looking at it upside down.


The
Marvellous
18s. 6d.
OPTIMUS
WATCHES
The Best, Cheapest and Most Accurate Timekeepers
ever produced.
Made especially to our order by one of the leading and
most celebrated manufacturers of Watches in Switzerland,
and experience has shown that no watch is better than a
well-made Swiss one.
Oilr movements, jewelled in six holes, keyless (10 turns
to wind), enamel dials, crystal faces, well made, splendidly
finished, nickel cases that will wear excellently; in fact,
real good-looking, handsome little watches, and magnifi-
cent timekeepers.
Twelve months' guarani <-e forwarded with every one.
bend I*, 0.0. for If>S. 60. (1 portage). and ha' l .. «iv
forwarded by .post. Utiotin ever) *ay uitUtueton .«<• r
a aeek money willingly refunded.
Only to be obtained from
FROST «5c SHIPHAM,
Spectacle Makers, Opticians & Electricians,
474 &■ 587 George Street, Sydney.
Foreign & colonial exchange bank
OF AUSTRALASIA, Limited.
Sydney— B6 King Street.
Melbourne— 369 Collins Street.
London Bankers—Australian Joint Stock Bank,
No. 2 King William Street, London, E.C.
This Bank undertakes the Exchange of Money,
both International and Intercolonial, includ-
ing the Coinage of all Foreign Nations, in
addition to all usual and customary banking busi-
ness.
Deposits Received.
years
1.2 months . .
G months ~.
3 months ...
Communications to
Managing I) irector. ”
... 81 pci cent
... 8 percent,
... 7 percent,
6 per cent.
be addressed to “The
D .7 WILSON,
Secretary,
W. H. PALING & COMPANY, LIMITED,
356 George Street, SYDNEY,
TfAVK .Just Opened a Magnificent Lul of Aiew JPiauus from Hit cdebtaud Makers, Steinway, Erard, Uebel, Penrith, Lipp, Ronisch, Bluthner, Collard,aiul others
Also of the wonderful Victor Pianos at £45 and Eatey Organs. No such Variety op Value elsewhere for Cash op Tumrs.
Society
Baron Carington will not eat his Christmas
dinner in Sydney. Of the 20 servants lie brought
out few return with him. Like Jack of the fleet,
they are enamoured of the freer life prevailing in
the Sunny South.
# # *
Of late the Hopetouns have been going in
heavily fur the Melbourne theatres and other
inexpensive kinds of vice-regal duties. They
have taken a stroll round the hospitals and a
ramble through the Zoological Gardens at feeding
tune. But to very little purpose have the small
Scotch lordship and his bonnie lassie endeavoured
to give the gubernatorial prestige a shaking up.
As sassiety loadstones they are a dreary failure,
and as objects of popular enthusiasm they rank
with General Gordon’s neglected statue.
The Bulletin learns that the Admiral
of the Station—everybody will here please turn
round three times —is terribly indignant
over the extremely disloyal attitude, don’t-you-
know, of the people of N.S. Wales in connection
with the Egeria episode. The Admiral - turn
round three times—is doubtful whether it is better
to mark the sense of his displeasure by recom-
mending the removal of the naval head-quarters
to a more loyal latitude, or by merely issuing a
ukase that in future naval court-martials be con-
ducted at Kerguelen Island or at the Chathams.
“It will prove so very bad for Sydney in a
commercial sense, you know,” said a naval officer
to a Bulletin man the other day.
* * *
Sydney men won’t be sorry to see the last
of the fleet. Its gallant officers have nothing to
do but mash our best girls, to say nothing of the
married women.
The mayors, councillors, and similar official
fry of Victoria in general, and Melbourne in par-
ticular, are shaking their gory locks and saying
“Did you ever?” in a loud, representative tone of
voice. With a stroke of his secretary’s pen ’is
Hexcellency Hopetoun has denuded these good
people of their ancient right and privilege of roll-
ing up to a levee in one fat lump and being for-
mally introduced to the Lord’s Anointed by the
boss of their body corporate. They formerly stood
on pedestals apart, as it were, from the common,
or garden, variety of levee-stormer. After clutch-
ing the sacred fist of deputy-majesty in this private
and confidential kind of way, they usually snorted
three times by way of insinuating that they had
got there by an extra superior route. But on the
approaching anniversary of Victoria Regina’s
nativity “ the English rule will be observed and
each gentleman attending will be presented in the
Same manner as are the general public, by the
officer of His Excellency’s household, who is de-
puted for that purpose.” As this new arrange-
ment is likely to knock the gilt off a lot o : effusive
“loyalty,” and seems eminently calculated to
shake the faith of many well-to-do, stout gentle-
men in Hold Hinglish Hinstitutions, The Bulle-
tin regards it as a distressing move in the right
direction.
# # #
On the whole Earl Onslow has earned a
very decent reputation since he was transported to
New Zealand. But then New Zealanders as a
body are intensely Conservative, or else they have
been favoured with very decent and well-behaved
Governors. They knew Bowen—saw through
him and patted him on the back ; they rather ad-
mired Robinson, the horsey men worshipped him ;
they liked the old “Markiss.” He was a very
popular old fellow in his time. They absolutely
doated on Jervois, and if Sir George Grey had
carried his Bill (it will be carried yet) for elective
Governors, Jervois would have been elected if he
had stood —and he would have done that. Onslow
is making a name for himself, and bids fair
to be very popular indeed. Now, why is this
thus? Simply because eacli of these Governors has
been and is a man amongst men. There is little
Kotooing in New Zealand to Governor or anybody
else. They are a bluff, outspoken folk, these same
New Zealanders, and a Governor is treated just
as any other respectable, well-behaved man would
lie—neither more nor less. And the Governors
quickly, and naturally, and with personal pleasure,
drop into the groove that the colonists assign them.
But one unpopular Governor would break the
Imperial knot ere the Imperial authorities could
gasp one single sob.
* # #
From the Melbourne Heeald :
Tl/'IDOWEHS observe. Several widows of good
moral characters, with comfortable home, wait-
ing introduction. View Matrimony.
This sounds very well—bnt wouldn't it be more
satisfactory if these widows could produce certifi-
cates of character from their former husbands?
In our opinion they should be compelled to do so
before re-marrying. There is a great opportunity
here for an ambitious member of Parliament who
wishes to do a good thing in his generation, to
bring in a Bill for the Protection of the Male Sex
from Widows. Duncan Gillies himself might do
worse than take it in hand,
* * #
1 n the course of a discussion on a proposed
Bachelor Tax, held lately by the Essendon (Vic.)
branch of the Australian Natives’ Association,
one of the speakers pointed out that 105 per cent,
of the ladies of the colonies got married. And yet
they are not satisfied ! Widows are at the bottom
of this trouble also.
* # #
Somebody, writing to a Melbourne paper,
states that a strike of bank-clerks is one of the
possibilities of the near future. A strike of white
mice ! If such a miracle did occur the directors of
banks in Melbourne would only have to send to
the Model Lodging-houses and the Eight o’clock
Rush to get scores of men to fill the vacant places.
These men would be mostly middle-aged and, very
probably, smelling of liquor, but they would know
their business—being all ex-bank-clerks who had
“ floated out ” (on a flood of beer) from their billets
years ago. It would require another miracle to
sober them up, of course, but if we are going in for
miracles why stop at one ?
# * *
A well-known Treasury Inspector was
lately staying at a hotel up North. An old friend
arrived by the steamer late at night and, upon
inquiring of the porter if Mr. Inspector was stop-
ing at the hotel, was informed that such was the
case, but that he did not know the number of hiy
WHAT IT MEANT.
FIRST MAN (looking up from dai’y paper): “WHAT’S THE MEANING OF
ALLEGED EMBEZZLEMENT?”
MIS FRIEND: “WELL—IT’S—' WHEN A MAN STICKS TO HIS BOSS’S
MONEY AND MAKES THINGS STRAIGHT IN THE LEDGER.”
room. “Oh ! that's easily found,” was the rejoin-
der, and, taking a candle, he walked along
the corridor, and with the greatest confidence
turned into the right apartment. “ How the
deuce did you know my room ? ” asked the In-
spector’. “ Well, old man,” was the reply, “ I
don’t want to be too personal, but the boots were
ranged outside the various doors, and you might
travel the world, let alone N.S.W., without find-
ing mates for your orabshells. ”
* * *
They were engaged in i; stiffening ” mem-
bers of Parliament, and their agent had already
squared several members of the Opposition per
medium of certain rolls of crisp “ big ” notes —of
whicli the numbers had been carefully taken by
the crafty conspirator who was entrusted with their
distribution. At last the paymaster came to a
smarty who said, “Oh no, not me; I want sove-
reigns.” “Take it or leave it,” calmly said the
paymaster; “ I’m not going to cart sovereigns
round the country— it’s not good enough. If any
of your crowd caught me in the back-blocks with
a load of sovereigns you’d cut my throat for the
money.”
# * *
In Camberwell (Vic.) football-team is a
wooden-legged boy who holds his own with the
best of them. This story comes to us per medium
of one of The Bulletin canvassers, and a Bulle-
tin canvasser never tells a lie.
* » #
H police-court, proceedings in Melbourne
Ihe other day, the Bench let a barmaid witness
“leave the precincts ” and return to her bar, be-
cause “ the bar has to bo closed in the meantime,
and Lord knows how many thirsty people are
being put about.” That was good. " An hour
later, a boarding-housekeeper, having given her
evidence, asked leave to return to her muttons, as
“ by this time, my boarders will be clamouring
for their lunch.” “ The business of the country,”
retorted the rigid Bench, “ cannot wait on
boarders’ appetites.” That was better. An in-
stant’s inspection of the respective photographs of
Miss Nectarpull and Mrs. Gravyblub would fully
explain the motives of the Binch.
# # *
Gustave Sten, the Swede, arrested fur the
Domain murder, has been discharged from cus-
tody, there being against him really no more
evidence of murder than there is against the
newly-elected Primate. Nevertheless, the police
produced testimony to the effect that a knife
bearing blood-spots, with which the murder ap-
parently was committed, was exactly the sort of
knife used at the boarding-house where Sten and
the deceased lodged—the inference being, of
course, that Sten had brought it to the fatal spot;
also that Sten was seen to wash his clothes the
day after the murder —presumably to get rid of
the blood of the murdered man. Sten has had a
narrow escape—an escape which ought to make
the public shudder. Which of us may bo next?
The alderman who cuts his mouth with his knife
as he eats his dinner may be dropping on to his
shirt-front a blood-spot to be used as a seal for his
his own death-warrant.
■* # #
Among the ministers attending the General
Methodist Conference in Sydney was a “ super-
numerary ” (or retired) missionary who had once
supped with Cakoban just before the latter’s con-
version, and when cannibalism was still good form
in the courtly circles of Fiji. A most appetising
mess was prepared which gratified the nostrils of
the missionary as it was brought in, but alas ! dis-
turbed his conscience, for it did not require a
powerful imagination to conjure up the consti-
tuents of the dish. The King helped his guest to
the limb of a young and apparently tender —what
do you think? Chicken ! Sold again !
* # #
A clever, and therefore eccentric, Mel-
bourne gentleman residing at St. Kilda, and
equally well-known in legal and journalistic
circles, holds 23,000 Melbourne tram-shares, the
market price of which is now about £8 10s.
apiece. He is a bachelor, and hints that he means
to leave all his money to beautify Melbourne.
Someone lately suggested that he should proceed
to beautify it during his lifetime with a view to
seeing how it looked, but this view of the case
appeared to be rather distasteful to him. The
Bulletin recommends him to subsidise the Mel-
bourne City Council to an extent which will en-
able them to pump patchouli into the city gutters.
* *= *
Here is a characteristic story. Two young
A 7 est Victorians, the hopeful scions of one'of the
wealthiest of Australian squatting families, not
long ago succeeded to a large fortune. They had
long been men about town and kings of the metro-
politan private bars. The first thing they did
was to rig up a private bar at their homesteads on
the station and procure the services thereat of two
yellow-haired beer-engineers. They couldn’t drink
anything unless it was served in the old familiar
way, doiicherknow.
* * #
Mr. Sidney De Montfort Bromley, until
now a stranger to the unprivileged portion of the
N.S.W. public, has just been appointed to the
deputy-governorship of Bernina Prison over the
heads of scores of deserving officers of the penal
department. Mr. Gould, Minister of Justice, is
alleged to be directly responsible for this little
transaction, but Mr. De Montfort Bromley’s
sponsors are said to be a military officer in high
command and a Supreme Court judge whose name
is hardly associated in the public mind with the
noblest ideals of British justice. Perhaps some
member of Parliament will kindly bore a hole in
i 18 Die Civil Service, and particularly
the officials of the prison service, yearn to know
what special virtues, apart from his name, are
possessed by Mr. Sidney De Montfort Bromley.
# #
The very latest from Manly Beach. A
gilded Sydney magnate now anchors his yacht a
couple of hundred yards or so from the public
landing-pier, and every night at nine o’clock fires
a cannon, which makes a terrific report—pre-
sumably just to let people know he’s there. The
common persons who are not allowed to shoot
within the municipality want to know why this
magnificent amateur navy - man is permitted
nightly to thus add another to the many curses of.
modern life. Should this kind of thing continue
much longer, some of the residents who have sick
people m their homes may fix up a Gatling-gmi
on the pier and answer the magnate’s blank-
cartridge.
* * #
A distinguished old gentleman resident in
a Sydney suburb lately made a terrible mistake.
He didn't feel well, had the influenza, perhaps,
and sent his son and heir to his office for the
letters. When the youth returned the old gentle-
man was not at home and so the correspondence
fell into the hands of his savage mother-in-law.
As some of the letters were very private indeed,
the result may safely be left to the imagination of
a wicked world.
* % %
Expressive Anagram ; A nous —Sugar.
W -Tf* :•£
At the Sydney University the Wentworth
medal for an English essay (graduates), and the
Wentworth medal for an English essay (under-
graduates), also the University medal for English
verse, were won by the sons of Sydney journalists.
»* * #
Statistics have been compiled which go to
show that out of seven million young men in the
United States over five millions never darken a
church door—a piece of surpassingly powerful
testimony to the power of the sects !
“ Her Majesty the Queen lias unveiled
the Women’s Jubilee Statue to Prince Albert, at
Windsor. The ceremony was an imposing one.”
— [Celtic.)
Some of the Sydney parsons are becoming
tame. The other day a sturdy little Wesleyan
clergyman with a big beard boldly sauntered down
Pitt-street with a lighted pipe in his mouth ; and
last week a priest looked in at a Sydney daily
newspaper-office and asked out the staff to the
nearest hotel where he. unblushingly took whisky
with them at the public bar.
*# ’ *
A certain M.P., addressing the people of
a recently-flooded Australian township while the
waters were at their height, is stated to have said :
“I do not even know whether my wife and child
are in safety. 1 have remained among you to try
and save the town.” _ If true, rather rough on the
old woman and kid, isn't it?
# # *
At North Bourko (N.S. W.) camp of refuge
during the recent floods, a young lady of tin
Lesbian sisterhood, who had been gazing at the
sun, strolled up to one of the official tents, raised
the curtain and hiccoughed out: “ Well, my little
lovey-doveys, how are you popping up?” Then
IDOL FOLLIES.
Who shall say that society’s rotten,
And virtue’s not held in esteem
That the things we should do are forgotten,
While still the monarchial scheme
Is worked in the land of Our Gracious,
That pattern of true womanhood ?
Here’s another new statue splendacious
To Albert the Good !
.Shall the voice of the Socialist brawling
Awaken the multitude’s groan
A hen he erieth ; ‘‘ For bread you were calling
And ‘ loyalty ’ gives you a stone ? ”
AIQ no, they will pause in their scrimmage
For pence to buy morsels of food,
To fall down and worship the image
Of Albert the Good.
What a theme for an Archbishop’s sermon—
How noble, how lofty, how great—
Is found in the work of this German
Whose offspring are fed by the State !
Gaunt women in rags were bewailing
The fate of a famishing brood,
A Idle their Queen was a statue unveiling
To Albert the Good.
The truth Tory toadies may garble,
• And for monarchs and mummery pray,
Yet all royal sections in marble
Are doomed to be carted away.
They will go in a night, never leaving
A sign to denote where they stood;
For the masses have left off believing
That Alberts are good.


Cutting from :i Melbourne paper :
TVTANTED, by two young ladies, aged 21 and 23,
' ’ Situations together.
There are times when the law against bigamy be-
comes a hardship. This is one of them.
Horsforcl’s Acid Phosphate.
ILL EFFECTS OF TOBACCO
relieved by its use.
The SYDNEY DEPOSIT BANK,
90 - KING STREET -90
Established 18S5.
Agencies in London and throughout Australia.
Overdrafts granted against Deposit of Deeds,
and all the usual banking business transacted.
The following are the Rates of Interest allowed
for Fixed Deposits
3 Years 9.1 per cent.
12 Months ... ... Si per eent.
<> Months ... ... 71 per cent.
3 Months ... ... per cent.
5 per eent. allowed on dailv balance of current account.
I'nr the past Four ( I) War.-, .a Hum is of (J.m; puk
Cent, has been paid in addition to the abo\'• rates.
This is the first and only Bank in the Colonies
which divides its profits with its depositors.
Communications from the country will be
promptly al l ended to.
T, S, RICHARDSON.
UIiWiUAL MANA'JLK,
Ro BE R T SON’S W Hls KY *
£2OO JF»3FB.X3ZS3E!®.
GIVEN AWAY IN THE COLONIES
as follows;
JIG ol* £5 each, 35 £3, ami 70 £l,
Pamphlets from the Agents, ALXjT Sz
00,, Xjimxteti,
CHARLOTTE PLACE,
SYDNEY
fM
m
while taksng it,
SCOTT’S EMULSION
AS PALATABLE
AS milk;
go disguised that the most
delicate stomach can take it.
Remarkable a« a.
j FMSH PRODUCER.
' ' Persons ga in rapidly
while taking it.
Is aclnowiedgcd by Physicians to be the FINEST
and BEST preparation of its class for the relief of
CONSUMPTION". SCROFULA, GENERAI
DEBILITY, WASTING DISEASES OF
CHILDRENand CHRONIC COUGHS ,
SOLD BY ALL ©HEWIISTS.
sho looked up and saw she was addressing the
Inspector'General of Police, Mr, Whittingdale
Johnson, the Bourko P.M., and other high and
mighty officials. She tied from the wrath to come,
# * *
The Omaha Herald writes on the subject
we brought up lately, the article in the North
American Review, by Mrs. Gates, Brigham
Young’s daughter, on the beauties of Polygamy.
What is more significant, the t eminent is re-
printed by Public Opinion (London). Says the
Omaha man in other words : “ What’s the use of
declaiming against Polygamy, when this woman
challenges us to compare its supposed ends with
the awful real and tangible ones of Monogamy as
practised ?”
1 # #
Poverty and Progress : A vagrant going to
quod in the gaol-van.
* # ' #
From obituary in a Melbourne daily last
week
Dear mother, in Heaven, or wherever ymi he,
Thy children are thinking, still thinking of thee.
The exigencies of rhyme are indeed trying.
# #
During the recent floods the Protestant
portion of Rockhampton cemetery was under
water while the R.C. corner was high and dry.
11l the latter place a corpse _ “ ruzup and re-
marked to a friend lying beside him : “Look at
them Prodeadants under water, Mick. Well,
now, I’ll not be after grudgin’ the poor divils a
hape av coolin’ considerin’ they’ll bo injoyin’ hell
for all aternity, glory bit o’ God.”
# * *
The Supreme Court of Victoria has decided
that the word “ tiddleywink ” is not libellous.
Here goes, then : “ The funds of the Premier Per-
manent Building Society, of Melbourne, were
tiddleywinked by the directors.”
* * *
One of the Sydney daily papers tries to
make out that the police still don’t know who
shot Constable Slater. The Bulletin could tell
them in less than two tries.
# * *
One of the best things yet done by Mr.
Minister-of-Works Bruce Smith, who has done so
many good things and has refused to do so many
bad ones, is the abolition of the office of N.S.W.
Colonial Architect, with a view to the institution
of free competition among architects in general for
the designing of all public buildings over £lOOO in
value. Mr. Barnet, the late Colonial Architect,
has, it is true, designed some beautiful buildings,
but then, sad to say, he is directly or indirectly
responsible for the hideous Sydney Post-office
carvings, which are at last to go. The result of
the one-man system so far pursued is that Sydney
is a perfect Barnet-opolis.
# ♦> *
Despite the precepts of their esteemed ex-
presideut, Mr. J. L. Purves, the average Austra-
lian Native seems capable of forming a tolerably
accurate estimate of British great men. Dr. Joyce,
a local medico, recently offered to deliver before
the Collingwood Branch of the A.N.A. a lecture
on Digestion or on W arren Hastings, as the
majority of the members might decide. The
Branch,* unhesitatingly plumped for Digestion.
Future A.N.A. lecturers might take a hint from
Joyce and ask intending audiences to make a
selection from such braces of subjects as : Pitt and
Pleurisy; Balfour and Bronchitis; Stanley and
Small-pox. #
In 20 years in the United States there
have been granted 328,71 b divorces. Dis-United
States.
* * *
A Sydney tradesman advertised, a few
days ago, for a carter and had 150 applicants for
the situation.
# * *
There are signs that ere long a start will
be made with "the construction of a bridge to
Sydney’s Brooklyn—North Shore. That eminent
engineer, Norman Selfe, estimates the cost at
£200,000. Even with £lOO,OOO added for inci-
dentals the thing should pay splendidly.
* * *
An obituary notice in a Melbourne paper,
after enumerating the virtues of the deceased,
adds that ho was the “ deariy-beloved brother of
Mrs. , pawnbroker, of,” &c. We hope he was
“ redeemed.”
# * *
There is now in Melbourne a person in a
had way, judging from the following notice in one
of the local papers ;
There is no spot where thou and I together, for an horns
could breathe.
What gloomy and tragic secret lies behind these
mysterious words ? Probably she has discovered
that he drinks rum for breakfast.
A New Zealand provincial paper has made
a worse mess of things than usual by printing an
extract from one of Parkes’ poems, and crediting
it to an unknown bard with a plebeian name like
Jenkins, or Thompson, or something of the sort—
we forget the exact details. This display of ignor-
ance makes us feel suicidal and depressed. Unless
vigorous steps are taken future ages may credit
that poem to some 3001 b. son of song who carted
dirt in an obscure village somewhere, and Parkes
himself may go down the stream of history as a
beauteous maiden who was short of clothes in the
third century and was consumed in the Coliseum
in those stormy days when the tiger ate the
Christian and jumped on the Christian’s mother
with all four feet. History is mostly built that
way. It is constantly looking back into dim anti-
quity in search of ancient facts which, even when
they were new and fresh, wouldn't have kept one
family in boots for the winter. It is always want-
ing to know the circumstances which induced
some aged Chaldean parson to bang himself about
in the days of Belshazzar, or looking for the
evidence in the case of a venerable Sanscrit
individual who appeared for a fleeting moment
in history, and stood his wet umbrella up
against the throne of a forgotten king, and
was then ejected and vanished in the trackless ages
of B.C. It keeps hunting up the missing links
that connected something with a name like the
observation offered by a trodden-on cat with
something else that is as impalpable as the
shadow of a mule in a dense fog, and some day it-
will go hunting in the same unsuccessful way for
the great men who are living now. And how will
Parkes appear when that day comes ? Possibly
his name will be attached to a picture of a naked
Arab who broke his neck running races down a
A BOLD BUCCANEER.
(Scene. — England.)
“Good bye, my son, you are going to a savage country, but never forget
you have had a Christian bringing-up, and never use your revolver unneces-
sarily, and never, whomever yon may have to associate with, countenance
cannibalism in any way! ”
granite precipice for a plug of tobacco. Perhaps
his memory will be preserved in a portrait that
looks as if a Carib had painted it with a fork at
midnight, and he will show up as a bow-legged
saint attired in a torn shirt and two immense
feet, and a smell of onions, tearing madly aero s a
desert with a manuscript hymn-book in his hand
and all his hair standing on end. Perhaps some
future generation may gather round a work of art
showing a stunted early Australian who lived in
a cave in an ag*e of slush and thunder and deluge,
and who ran round on all-fours, and neighed,
and ate grass like a horse, and calmly accept the
statement that he was one I'rancis Habigle, who
was ultimately caught by Confucius 'after a
desperate struggle in which that Chinese sage was
bitten in 16 places. And Dan. O'Connor, for all
he knows to the contrary, may bo alluded to at
some future day as an extinct animal that lived on
human flesh in the dark ages. So, after all, per-
haps it doesn't matter so very much if people do
begin to feel doubtful about who wrote larkes
poetry, seeing that sooner or later they will pio-
bably begin to get doubtful if there ever was any
Parkes at all. And even that won t matter so very
much either. In fact nothing matters very much
when we come to look at it closely, and, moreen er,
the world is feeling very tired and will be glad to
have a rest.
The incoherent cablegvaphic person who
supplies those items of foreign intelligence that
IVstor in the columns of the daily press would be
considerably improved if there were diagrams
attached to"him litre and there to explain what he
D thinking about. In Ids ordinary, nmllustrated
condition lie is too hazy to be much good He
■■ids down into the very bowels of a subject and
ferrets to come up again, and he has an exas-
iicratino' way of sending along the middle of an
event without telling who started it or explaining
where he got it so as to avoid being hanged, or
mentioning how the circumstance ended, or if it
didn't end at all but got exhausted and dropped
down dead on the way. For some weeks past he
has kept up an unceasing flow of items about the
French invasion of Dahomey, and has never once
thought of mentioning which party had got licked,
nor has he even told what the trouble is all about.
This last information was left to come along
slowly by delayed bullock-dray, and even when it
arrived it didn’t amount to much. As far as could
be made out, some unspecified nigger came along
to the French border and regarded the colonists
in a disrespectful manner with his eye, and
assumed an aspect which implied that the French
Republic made him feel sick, and having concluded
this demonstiation he left in a hostile manner and
couldn’t be found again. Then a deputation was
.sent to inform the shoeless, local potentate that if
this sort of thing happened again he would be
made to totter on his rhinoceros-hide throne,
and to demand that any person found snorting
or blowing or otherwise conducting himself m
a manner that reflected on the dignity of Europe
should be suppressed, but somehow the ambassa-
dors got mislaid and never returned. They were
received with reverence and lodged in a tent with
a skull on top of it. The royal umbrella, also with
a skull on top of it, was shown to them, and they
lived under the protection of the national banner
of Dahomey, which, like everything else m that
country, had a skull on top of it. The big imperial
drum, with skulls all round it, was pounded and
whaled andswalloped outside their tent until they
could hear themselves going deranged, and the
local orchestra, led by the principal executioner,
came along regularly and sang the hymn that the
old cow died of just when they wanted to go to
sleep Also they were honoured by the native
&d a »d tss
residence at midnight, and so did the ram-maker,
and the fetich-man, and the obi-man, and thegree-
gree-man, and the hangman, and the boss wizard,
and the principal snake-charmer, and the head
prophet, and the royal Latinist, and other ecclesias-
tics with nothing on ; and the palace dwarf lay in
the dust before their door and grosned all day
and bjew agonising yelps out of a trumpet in
between times. Also, the national snake-g d was
turned loose in their residence and couldn’t be
persuaded to go out; and, in addition to this,
a number of people were executed around
the ambassadors’ dwelling and their remains
tastefully stacked up in front; nd they were
visited by the royal family, which smelt like a
lost ash-barrel r ot.ing among a quantity of stale
hog; and the hospitable monarch offered his
visitors permission to kill anybody who they fan-
cied might be the better for being- execute* a
little, and gave them authonty to cripple the
bishop or wallop the royal harem when they
wanted exorcise. But he wouldn’t allow them to
leave, and consequently an army was sent to fetch
them back, and the cablegram lunatic began to
send along that series of expensive messages which
perpetually announce how the French troops had
started out from a heap of dust and marched till
they reached an extinct volcano, and blew up a
place that had been blown up all along, and laid
waste a spot that used to be a wilderness, and
camped one night in a dirty village of squalid
niggers, and the next in a squalid village of dirty
niggers, and then disappeared and hadn’t been
heard of since. And. this is what is called cable
intelligence! IntdWjcnrc above all things! Ix-
TELT.ioKNOE ! Weeping Rachel! We will supply
better intelligence than that after we are dead.
Laud at Perth, W. A., the best investment.
Plans from Intercolonial Investment Co., Ltd.,
;)0 Bathurst-street, Sydney.
The Fairfaxes, wo perceive, now want
ruffians “kept in subjection by the lash until
they can be educated up to a higher sensibility.”
The Song of Old Joe Swallow.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
When I was up the country, in the days o’ long
ago,
Along ov Jimmy Nowlett with the teams I usetergo;
Then the reel road wasn’t heered on, an’ the-bush
was wild an’ strange, . '•
An’ we useter draw the timber from the saw-pits
in r,he range; .
An’ we useter load provisions for the stations, an
we’d go
Thro’ the plains an’ o’er the ranges in the days of
long ago. • t t
Chorus.- Then it’s yoke up the bullicks an
tramp beside ’em slow,
An’ saddle up yer horses an’ a-ridin’
we will go,
To the bullick-drivin’, cattle-drovin’
Nigger, digger, roarin’, rovin’
Days o’ long ago.
Once me and Jimmy Nowlett loaded timber for
the town,
But we hadn’t gone a dozen mile before the rains
come down,
An’ me an’ Jimmy Nowlett an’the bullicks an’
the dray
Was cut off on some risin’ ground while floods
around us lay;
An’ we soon run short of tucker an’ terbacca,
which was bad,
An’ pertaters dipped in honey was the only tuck
we had.
But it’s yoke up the bullicks, &o.
An’ half our bullicks perished when the drought
was on the land,
An’ the burnin’ heat that dazzles as it dances on
the sand —
When the sun-baked clay an’ gravel paves for
miles the burnin’ creeks,
An’ at ev’ry step yer travel there a rottin’
carcase reeks—
But we pulled ourselves together, for we never
used ter know
What a feather-bed was good for in those days o
long ago.
But in spite ov barren ridges an’ in spite ov mud
and heat,
An’ dust that browned the bushes when it rose
from bullicks’ feet,
An’ in spite ov cold an’ chilblains when the bush
was white with frost,
An’ in spite ov muddy water where the burning
plain was crossed,
An’ in spite of modern progress and in spite ov all
their blow,
’Twas a better land to live in in the days o long
ago.
Oft when the moon was shinin’ o’er the ranges like
a lamp,
An’ a lot of bulliok-drivers was a-campin’ on the
camp,
Wen the fire was blazin’ cheery an’ the pipes was
drawin’ well,
Then our s ngs we useter chorus an' our yarns we
useter tell;
An we’d talk ov lands we come from, and ov chaps
we useter know, _ 1
Bor there always was behind us other days o’ rong
ago.
Them early days was ended when the railroad
cro red the plain,
But in dreams I often tramp beside the bullick-
team 3 gain :
Still we pauses at the shanty just to have a drop
er cheer, . .
Still I feels a kind ov pleasure when the canipiu
ground is near:
Stilll smells the old tarpaulin me an’ J immy used
ter throw
O’er the timber-truck for shelter in the days o'
long ago.
Oh, I’ve been a driftin’ baok’ards with the changes
ov the land,
An’ if I spoke ter bullicks now they wouldn t
understand, .
But when Mary wakes me sudden in the night i'll
often say ; ,
“Come here, Spot, an’ stair up, Bally, blank an
blank an’ comeerway.”
An’ she tolls me when I m sleepin’ oft my eler-
quince ’illflow
In the bullick-drivin’language ov the days o' long-
ago.
The pub. will soon be closin’ so 111 give the thing
a rest, .
But if you drop on Nowlett in the far an' distant
west
If Jimmy drops a doubleyou instead of av an vee,
An’ if he drops his niches then yer sure to know
it’s he, .
An 5 yer won’t forgit to cir.sk him if he still remeiu-
tiers Jo
As knmved him up the country in the days o long
ago
HENRY LAWSON.


B
USING THE BEST
MATERIALS]THE
BEST RESULTS FOLLOW
TRY
Si
DR. SCOTT’S Electric Hair Brushes will posi-
tively CURE Nervous Headache or Neuralgia in
five minutes, if used according to directions. In
ordinary everyday use they will promptly arrest
falling hair and baldness, dandruff and diseases of
the scalp, and make the hair grow long and
glossy. These beautiful brushes are made with
pure bristles —not wire which injure the scalp and
cause baldness and irritation. Illustrated price
list of Dr. Scott’s Genuine Electric Appliances
posted free on application to the
Pall Mall Electric Association,
66 MARGARET STREET, SYDNEY.
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
Reliable Watch Repairs. Daiims & Co., King-st. Arcade
Miscellaneous.
MR. JAMES R. PAGE, in England as
Downey Bleater in “ Novv-a-Days. : ’
Permanent address : 49 Myddleton-street, Lon-
don, E.C.
a ILES SHAW is requested to communicate
with JOHN MARSLAND,
Charters Towers, Queensland.
Theatrical
SILK
COTTON
WOOL
TIGHTS, SHIRTS,
AND
OPERA HOSE,
PADS, ANIMAL DRESSES, ETC
SPECIALITIES MADE TO ORDER.
tiilf Trimming*. Itoots, Stage Fabrics.
Manufacturers to all leading London and Provincial
Theatres.
AUSTRALIAN AGENTS WANTED.
B. BUFL3XTET & CO.,
42 King Street, Covent Garden, London.
NO
DON’T
WASTE
IT
You Will most certainly save Money,
Time, and Anxiety by placing all your
Advertising in our
linniia
Write
to
F. T. WIMBLE k CO.,
Advertising Experts,
369 to 373 George St.,Syd. Send for Pamphlet
“ How to advertise and why ? ” 11th Edition.
T
ARTHUR MAT & CQ„
TEA IMPORTERS
AKD
BLENDERS,
FOOCHOW and SYDNEY.
Office and Sample Booms:
385 Pitt Street, Sydney.
T
Agents Wanted in every Town throughout
the Colony.
Amusements.
MAJESTY’S THEATRE.
Lessee and Manager .... Mr. Geo, Rignold.
Doors open at 7; commencing 8. Carriages at 10,30.
IMMENSE SUCCESS ! IMMENSE SUCCESS !
Mr. WILLIAM RIGNOLD
as Jaquea, in
The Two Orphans.
Box Office at Theatre from 10 to 5. Brices as usual.
J. P. Macdon'ai.u, Acting-Manager.
QRITERION THEATRE.
Under the Management of Messrs. Brough and Bouoicault.
By arrangement with Messrs. MACMAIION, -
A SENSATIONAL SUCCESS.
EVERY EVENING ! EVER Y EVEN TNG '
the Celebrated Comedian,
JOHN F. SHERI D A N,
The Original
WIDOW O’BRIEN,
in the Puniest Comedy of Modern Times,
IT'ti.sa. octr. -felxe Bristol,”
supported by the 35 Members of the New
English Musical Comedy Co.
Prices—ss, 3s, 2s and Is, Box Plan at. Nicholson’s.
g C H O O L OF ARTS.
MACC BE |
MACCABE -
MACCABE I
School
of
A UTS.
Mdlle. MINNIA
Mdlle. MINNIA
Mdlle. MINNIA
TO-NIGHT and EVERY EVENING.
NEW PROGRAMME.
Special Matinee Saturday Afternoon for Children.
George Buller, Manager.
JgONDI AQUARIUM.
The Most Popular
PI INIC And PLEASURE GROUNDS OF AUSTRALIA.
The Famous Switchback Railway, conveying
Passengers from Cliff to Cliff daily.
S lendid Asphalt Open-Air Skating-Rink Free to Visitors.
Open Daily from 10 a.m to 10 pan.
Admission, Is.; Children, 6d. Trams to Gate— Fare, 4d
rnHEATRE ROYAL,
ROCKHAMPTON, QUEENSLAND.
Seatin'? Accommodation :
f 2OO, "Dress Circle.
200, Stalls.
UOO, Pit.
Stage, 45 x5O feet. Scenery and Fittings com-
plete, and every convenience. Sliding Hoof fot
ventilation.
W. G. CAPORN Ss CO , Lessees.
For Terms and Dates, apply
SABER BROTHERS,
Rockhampton.
Theatre royal
Lessee Mr. S. Lazar.
Sub Lessees, Messrs. Williamson, Garner and Musgrove.
Treasurer ... Mr. Geo. L. Goodman.
LAST TWO NIGHTS! LAST TWO NIGHTS !
or
‘ ‘ Camille.” ‘ ‘ Camille.”
In Preparation —Mdllc. lie Brossior.
ADMISSION —ss., 3s. and ONE SHILLING.
Gaiety theatre.
Lessee Mr. Laurence Foley.
Messrs. HOLLOWAY, HOWE, and LITTLE beg to
announce that they will commence their lirst Dramatic
Season on in Sydney on the 24th MAY.
THE QUEEN’S BIRTH-NIGHT,
when will be produced for the lirst time in Sydney, Frank
Harvey’s Celebrated Play, entitled,
JXjiOGHES ZKrOT I
Interpreted by a Powerful Dramatic Company.
New Scenery and Effects by Mr. Little.
Popular Prices of admission—3s., 25., and One Shilling.
XXAN BARRY’S DRAMATIC COMPANY.
Sole Proprietor and Manager .. Dan H usky
THE LARGEST, BEST.
AND MOST SUCCESSFUL
THEATRICAL ORGANISATION
TRAVELLING AUSTRALIA
TWENTY-THREE ARTISTES .'
Now on tour overland towards Melbourne, opening in
each town in the latest London success,
Tlx e 3P* arson’s C2> sl -fc lx!
The sole Australian rights of this great play, which is
now the rage in England, belongs to Dan Barky, who lias
arranged to produce the piece in Melbourne shortly.
“The only show travelling Australia that draws big
money is Dan Barry's.”—London Era.
LING HURST SKATING RINK.
j SKATING
TO-DAY
1 SKATING
; TO-NIGHT
SKATING
TO-DAY
i SKATING
TO-NIGHT
! SKATING
j TO-DAY
i SKATING
1 TO-NIGHT
; SKATING
i TO-DAY
i SKATING
| TO-NIGHT
j SKATING
TO-DAY
I SKATING
I TO-NIGHT
1 SKATING
TUP: LARI JEST AND BEST
IN THE WORLD.
Remember! Remember!
Seven Laps to the Mile.
THE SPLENDID FLOOR
PRONOUNCED
PERFECT!
THREE SESSIONS
TO-DAY.
Morning, 10to 12. Ad.,(id. Skates
Free. Afternoon, 2.30 to 5.
Admission: Gents,ls; Ladies,6d.
Skates, (id.
Evening, 7.30 till 10.15.
Admission, Is. Skates, Is.
Season Tickets:
Gents, 50s. Ladies, 40s.
SKATING
TO-DAY
SKATING
TO-NIGHT
SKATING
TO-DAY
SKATING
TO-NIGHT
SKATING
TO-DAY
SKATING
TO-NIGHT
SKATING
TO-DAY
SKATING
TO-NIGHT
SKATING
TO-DAY
SKATING
TO-NIGHT
SKATING
GUNTHER’S BRISBANE CAFE,
George Street (below Huntcr-st), Sydney.
TARED. GUNTHER, late of the Wheatsheaf Hotel,
I 1 Castlereagh-st., is desirous of informing his patrons
and the public generally that be has now become pro-
prietor of the BRISBANE CAFE, GEORGE STREET.
These premises are commodious, and every convenience is
obtainable. None but liquors of the first quality retailed.
Two of Alcock’s Prize Billiard Tables provided. Files of
sporting and dramatic papers kept. Special ■ ccommoda-
tion for the theatrical profession.
Something 3XT catvt.
YOUR NAME neatly printed on Twenty (40) Beautiful
Embossed VISITING CARDS, comprising Floral
Landscape, Sea Mew, Bird, &c. No two alike. ALL
FOR ONE SHILLING in Stamps, postage paid. Agents
wanted. Samples free. Address-
Austral Card and Novelty
14 Hunter Street, SYDNEY.
N
Furniture, &c.
EWTO N AND
L A M B.
FURNITURE and PIANOFORTE
WAREHO USEMEN,
CABINETMAKERS, UPHOLSTERERS
AND
BEDDING MANUFACTURERS.
SHOW ROOMS AND MANUFACTORY:
SPRING AND O’CONNELL STREETS.
T7IULL SUITES for DINING-ROOM SIDE-
JC BOARD, DINNER WAGGON, TABLE
OVERMANTEL, COUCH, EASY CHAIRS,
CARVING CHAIRS and DINING CHAIRS,
all to match. Newton & Lamb.
| ELF-AD JUSTING HA MMOCK CHAIR,
Patented.
_ This chair adjusts itself to any pout ton, irons
sitting to reclining and vice versa, at the will of
the occupant. It is simple yet ingenious in its
construction; works automatically. The above
cut represents only two of the numerous positions
that can be obtained instantly, and with but little
effort. It fits perfectly every part of the body,
and gives the occupant entire rest. We can now
supply portable suspension Stands to enable the
Chair to be used anywhere. Price, with Stand,
30s. ; without Stand, 255.
Packing in canvas, if requred, 2s, Gd. extra.
I)
RAWING-ROOM SUITES, Fashionably
Upholstered, at all prices.
Occasiona l tables in all Woods, im-
fnense variety of designs; also, elegantly
finished in Embroidery, Plush, &c. Newton and
Lamb.
ADVT
~WT ALNUT FAL L
?? FRONT PEDESTAL
WRITING DESKS, of vari-
ous sizes, fitted with Shelves,
Moveable Pigeon-holes, Slid-
ing Trays, Stationery, Draw-
* era,' revolving portable triple
1 Inkstand. Receptacles for
' Stamps, and Ruler and Pen
Racks. Outside Drawers divided into compart-
ments by movable partitions to admit of enlarging
or diminishing the space when required. Locks
automatically. One Of the most useful, commo-
dious, and perfectly-planned articles for the Library
or Office yet produced/ Admirably suited to the
necessities of professional and business‘men.
WALNUT FALL FRONT SINGLE
PEDESTAL WRITING DESK.—
Internal arrangements almost identical with the
description given above. Price only £l2 10s.
, r . r
Drawing-room
CABINETS.
Early English
CHIPPENDALE DESIGNS.
Newton & Lame.
ADVT
ED STEAD S, all size
Nickel-plated and Black and
Brass. Great variety.
Bedding . All descriptions
at lowest rates.
Newton & Lam b.
ADVT
Cl P RING MAT-
r3 TRESSES (Woven
Wire), best make; also,
Spiral Spring.
Price, from 7s. 6d. each-
CVHEAP FURNITURE.—Pine Tables, from
j 10s. ; Dining Tables, from 20s. ; Kitchen
Dressers, from 225. (id.; Washstands, from 12s. (>d.;
Chests of Drawers, from 40a.; Wardrobes, from
80s.; Cedar Cheffoniers, from 30s. ; Cedar Side-
boards, from £3 35.; Clothes Horses, from
Bs. (id. ; Writing Tables, with drawers, from 255.
□
OE CHESTS.
ALL SIZES.
PRICES LOW.
NEWTOV and LAMB.
ADVT
I EXCELSIOR
J
UPRIGHT
IMPROVED
REFRIGERATORS,
Vari ns Sizes, from 455.
N 1
EWT ON AND LAM B.
FURNITURE and PIANOFORTE
WAREHOUSEMEN,
CABINETMAKERS, UPHOLSTERERS
AND
BEDDING MANUFACTURERS.
Show Rooms and Manthv cTory;
SPRING AND O’CONNELL STREETS.
GRATEFUL ATHLETES.
'1 he following spontaneous expressions of
gratitude are taken from a recent issue of the
Manchester Athletic News
Mr. E. E. Painter (of London Athletic Club
and Ranelagh Harriers), 55 Finsboro’-road, South
Kensington, writes : “ I have been suffering from
a sprained tendon for the past three months, and
have tried every remedy I could think of, but
none have done me any good. About a month
ago I was recommended by a fellow athlete to
try St. Jacobs oil, which I applied at once, and it
did me so much good that I shall in a few day 3
commence running again. Shall recommend it to
all ray fellow athletes as being the best remedy I
have ever tried.”
Mr. G. Smith (of Hands worth Friary Football
Club), 18 Carlyle-road, Handsworth, Birming-
ham, says:—“Not long ago I received a severe
sprain in my ankle while on the football field,
wli ch wholly disabled me from walking. The
ankle was much swollen and very painful. Learn-
of the virtue of St, Jacobs oil in such cases, I pro-
cured a bottle and applied the contents regularly
for one week to the ankle, by which time the
swelling and pain had wholly disappeared, and I
was able to walk. I have also found the oil a
most excellent remedy for toothache and head,
ache. I have, therefore, no hesitation is recom-
mending the oil to football players, as well as all
persons suffering from pain.”
Mr. Thomas Charles Pullinger, the well-known
bicycle rider, of 16, High-street, Lewisham, not
only knows how to ride a bicycle, but he knows
the right sort of an embrocation to use after hard
riding. He says, in referring to a strained leg,
“I have found St. Jacobs oil has done my leg a
power of good. I shall continue to recommend
your valuable embrocation to my fellow cyclists,
as I consider it a splendid article for rubbing
down with while training. ” The Bicycling News,
April 23, 1887, also says : “Mr. Pullinger. of the
Catford, asks us to thank the gentleman who
recommended St. Jacobs oil to him.”
The fire brigade of the city of Birmingham has
reached an excellent state of efficiency. The men
are exposed to many dangers, and their arduous
work often brings about physical suffering. Chief
Engineer John Bellhouse, and firemen Josiah
Bennett, Thomas Fidoe, Win. Maeso, Wm. Shaw,
and John Brittill, write that they r ceived great
benefit from the use of St. Jacobs oil in eases of
severe pains in the back and knees also tender
feet and other ailments. The wives of several
members of the department also say that in their
case a few applications of the oil cured tooth and
face ache.
THE ENTERPRISING YANKEE.
To produce a watch so simple in construction
that it could be sold cheaper than any ether, and
still be a reliable timekeeper, has been the problem
for watchmakers the world over. The Swiss de
veloped the making of watches by hand to the
highest point, at the same time cheapening hand
labour to the utmost possible extent. The Ameri-
cans sought a solution in a different direction by
making the parts of their watches by machinery,
and interchange. However, the cost of manufac-
ture still remained too great for the watch of the
million. An enterprising Yankee company finally
solved the problem by dispensing with the greater
number of parts of a watch (reducing the number
from 160 to 57 !), making all of them by machinery,
and so easy of adjustment that expert labour was
not needed to put them together. This crowning
achievement in the history of watchmaking was
accomplished by the Waterbary Watch Company
in their Waterbury watch, which, though cheap,
is as perfect in its parts and as reliable in its time-
keeping as any watch made.
Series “E” —the best form of the original
Waterbury—is a good serviceable watch produced
at a cost within the reach of all. Keyless, reliable,
durable and accurate, it is without a peer for the
man or boy in moderate circumstances. Series
“J” (gent.’s size) and “L” (ladies’size) are the
latest productions of this famous factory. These
are short-winding, stem-setting, enamel-dialled,
jewelled and dust-proof watches, with duplex
escapements ; and are just as good timekeepers as
anyone could wish to carry. They have been
unanimously declared to be perfect marvels of
mechanical ingenuity. All these watches are
made by the best automatic machinery, and thus,
in event of accident, can be efficiently repaired at
a nominal cost, at any of the company’s repair
depots or agencies, established for the convenience
of wearers in various centres throughout the
colonies. The genuine Waterbury Watches may
be obtained from any respectable dealer or store-
keeper. Price, Series “E,” 13s. 6d.; Series “J ”
or “ L ” (enamel-dial), 225. Gd., (patent dial) 20s.
CAUTION.— AII Watches Manufacturen
BY the Waterbury Watch Go. have the word
“WATERBURY” printed in fine type upon
THEIR DIAL FACES, AND ALSO THE INTERWOVEN
LETTERS W.W.CO., WITHOUT WHICH NO WATCH
sold as A WATERBURY is genuine. If yon
want correct time and a watch which in event of
accident can be efficiently repaired at a reasonable !
cost, DEMAND THE WATERBURY.
Sandy, John, and Faddy.
[The following song was sung at the St. Patrick’s Day
Banquet, in London, by Mr. T. D. Sullivan, to the air of
“ So Early in the Morning.”]
The night is wearing fast away,
We see the dawning of the day ;
The “ flowing tide ” runs bright and free,
And bears our cause to victory.
Ten thousand thanks to Gladdy,
Say Sandy, John, and Paddy,
A braw and bonnie laddie,
A grand old guide is he.
He’s England’s pride, and Scotland’s joy,
Old Ireland loves the white-haired boy ;
His name is sweet through all the vales,
The hills and plains of gallant Wales.
Then hip hurrah for Gladdy,
Say Sandy, John, and Paddy,
A braw and bonnie laddie,
A grand old chief is he.
The toiling millions of our land
Got priceless blessings from his hand,
He knows the way, and has the will,
To make their fortunes brighter still.
Sing out the praise of Gladdy,
Say Sandy, John, and Paddy,
A braw and bonnie laddie,
A brave old man is he.
Full soon he’ll end the wrong and shame
To Ireland done in England’s name,
And make goodwill and peace to reign
Through all Britannia’s wide domain.
Our hearts go out to Gladdy,
Say Sandy, John, and Paddy,
A braw and bonnie laddie,
A lov’d old man is he.
God grant him strength, and length of days,
And bless his righteous works and ways,
And give him all his heart holds dear
To brightly crown his great career.
May God be good to Gladdy,
Say Sandy, John, and Paddy,
A braw and bonnie laddie,
A Grand Old Man is he.
T.D.S.
Messrs. Chubb and Praeger, Beale’s
Chambers, have on view photos, of Mr. and Mrs.
Sydney Burdekin, the Mayor being in his official
costume. Both productions are of the highest
artistic merit, and reflect fresh lustre on these
already renowned photographers.
MERE FACTS.
The superior quality of the beer brewed by the
Anheuser Busch Brewing Association is the sole
reason that half a million barrels are sold anually.
This quantity would fill a sufficient number of
bottles to make a rosy girdle around the world, or
if put into kegs would fill enough waggons to
make an unbroken procession three hundred miles
long. Ye who quaff a glass of the famous St.
Louis Lager Beer, think of the good company
that you are in.
The Russian influenza, La Grippe, or by
whatever name our friends may choose to call it,
has paid us a visit in true earnest. It has been |
said that the first people to feel the influence of
the dread enemy are employees drawing fixed
salaries, and the first to get well are those whose
incomes depend upon their own exertions and vary
with the attention they devote to their business, j
This slight sarcasm may be true enough, but it is |
certain that there are many who have been really
ill, and the medical men and chemists have been
the gainers. Many of the prescriptions so freely I
published in the papers are merely what are known 1
as “placebos,” but there is no preventitive so I
efficacious as a good tonic. The grippe seizes i
those whose systems are weak and enfeebled by
age, overwork, or a too free enjoyment of the i
pleasures of life. To invigorate the system is to I
repel the subtle enemy, and in Banner's Tonic, j
which will be found duly advertised in our
columns, the public are provided with just the
medicine which is required. It strengthens the ;
weak constitution, repairs the ill effects of over-
work or debility, and is invaluable to those who j
have already become victims to the disease of the
age. i


. .fe ■
•3.; ff&jMgrrop
:' : . fSKS i
<T ~ ■
JH E»OMT 1- 1- Length 4 io- Depth 2- I’-. 1
VHPALING
TS the Triost complete and perfect instrument ever offered at the price.
X Seven Octaves, Full Trichord, Iron Frame. Patent Check Action, Brass
Pill Plate, Cross-strung, requiring only the minimum of tuning. The tone
is powerful, clear, brilliant and pure. In very elegant Black °aml Gold or
Walnut Cases.
This Piano is introduced by W. 11. PALIXG & CO.. Limited, for the
puqjoso of meeting a long-felt demand for a good, reliable instrument at an
easy price, and thereby giving to the head of alni6st every household an
opportunity of,supplying his home with a Ikstrdass Piano at a price heretofore
paid for a' much interior instrument.
ADVT
E R Y
from
every flower that
breathes a frasrrance
SWEET SCENTS
loxotis opoponax
\FRANGIPANNI psidium
May he obtained
Of aaii (Vi cm id or
I'crfnmer.
Street V
Beware oj imitation#: The yen it Inc is siycted.
TRADE MARii .—MUsii DKSEfc
/COUNTRY SCOT! KKKEPERS, ETC.
Should write or call upon
A. M. MARKS & CO.,
- bII’OUTKIiS ON
Furniture, Fiancfrrtcs, Glass, Earthenware,
CHINA, FANCY GOODS, KLLCTIIO FLATK,
4'Hi A Its .V I'OK U 4 OMSTS SI MO It Is;
SO 1.10 AGIO.MS FOR
Dawn Cigars and Salonica Turkish Cigarette:
Special Novelties in all Lines for Christmas Troth.'
Prices on Application to ■—
-A. «Sc 00-,
Vickery’s Buildings, 74a Pitt Streeet, Sydney
AND AT LONDON.
Telephone, No. Oil).
V)
J
V
M
4**
' 3
A Lovely Skin
ngis known to science at all comparable
(o the Cuticuka Remedies in their marvellous
properties of cleansing, purifying and beautifying
"the skin, and in curing torturing, disfiguring, itch-
ing, scaly and pimply diseases of the skin, scalp
and blood, with loss of hair from infancy to ago.
Cuticuka, the great Skin Cure, and Cuticuka
Soap, an exquisite Skin Reautifier, prepared from
it, externally, and Cuticuka Resolvent, the new
Blood Purifier, internally, are a positive cure for
every form of skin and blood disease, from pimples
to scrofula.
I have had a most wonderful cure of salt rheum.
For five years I have suffered with this disease. I
had it on my face, arms and hands. I was unable
to do anything whatever with my hands for over
two years. 1 tried hundreds of remedies, and not
cue had the least effect. The doctor .paid my case
was incurable. I saw your advertisement, and
concluded lo try the CuxictritA Remedies; and
incredible as it may seem, that after using ono
box of Cuticuka, and two cakes of Cuticuka
Soap, and two hollies of Cuticuka Resolvent, I
find lam entirely cured. Those who think this
letter exaggerated may come and see no and find
out for themselves. GRACE P. HA.RKHAM,
North St. Charles Street, Belle River, Ont.
Cuticuka Remedies are absolutely pure and the
only infallible blood purifiers and shin bcautiliors.
I have been afflicted since last March with a skin
disease the doctors called eczema. My face was
covered with scabs and sores, and the itching and
burning were almost unbearable. Seeing your
Cuticura Remedies so highly recommended, con
eluded to give them a trial, using the Cuticura
and Cuticura Soap externally, and Resolvent
internally, for four months. I call myself cured,
in gratitude for which I make this public statement.
CLARA A. FREDERICK, Broad Brook, Conn.
I have suffered from Salt Rheum for over eight
years, at times so bad that I could not attend to
ray business for weeks at a time. Three boxes of
Cuticura and four bottles Resolvent have eu.
tirely cured mu of this dreadful disease.
JOHN THIEL,
1875 Second Avenue, New York City.
The box of Cuticura that you sent me some
months ago did mo so much good that I will send
for another bo::, believing that it will euro me of a
skin disease with which I have been troubled foi
eighteen years.
FANNIE I. JOHNSON, Amsterdam, Ya.
Sold everywhere. Price: Cuticura, 50c. ; Soap,
25c.; Resolvent, $l. Prepared by the Potter
Drug and Chemical Co., Boston, Mass.
I®- Send for “How to Cure Skin Diseases,” 61
pages, 50 illustrations, and ICO testimonials.
TIN
TED with the loveliest delicacy is the skin
bathed with Cuticura Medicated Soap.
PIN
PLES, blackheads, chapped and oily skin
prevented by Cuticura Medicated Soap.
Address: R TOWNS & CO., SYDNEY, N.S.W.
COMMERCIAL TRAVELLERS, TOURISTS, &c.
O •
ROYAL HOTEL, LITHGOW,
Tlio leading resort for
Coirtnxercial Travellers, anti Tourists.
The Largest Sample Rooms on (ho Western Line. Horses and Buggies for Hire.
Nothin'/ hut the Best Brands of spirits gold over the bar.
Hag'll Wallace, Proprietor. Late of W^allerawaug - .
BEDE.
The
Only Fair Way
of
Drawing - .
BIRTHDAY CUP,
50,000 at 10.
Ru.n 2 *3=-tli May.
The
Only Fair Way
of
Drawing.
Address; “ ADAM BEDE, 5 ’ care of H. N. Abbott,
[Owner of United Venice Hold, Auckland Theatre Royal, Abbott’s Opera House, Auckland, N.Z.
(Our Only Sydney Address)—POST OFFICE CHAMBERS, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Ask for the
Unequalled
“DiL WN ” 3d. CIGIR,
Of all
Tobacconists,
D
Store
AND
Hotel
KEEPERS.
Wholesale Agents: A. M. 3IAKKS & Co., 74a PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
fUwSON
DAWSON'S
Sole Agents for Australasia
VAUGHAN, EOGEES & 00.,
(Opposite 0.1’.0.)
108 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
p
E
R
F
E
C
T
I
O
N
WHiSKY.
SUJ3-A G E N T S W A NTED
IN THE
I‘ItINCU‘AL CENTRES
THROUGHOUT AUSTRALASIA.
Messrs. MAUDE & CO.,
Florists and Nurserymen,
/ •>/ /hr Hoihd I'colic Nursery, Pwkimnt-r)
Have just. Opened their
mv Premises at HI King Street, Sydney,
An,d are prepared to receive orders for CHOICE
PLANTS, FERNS and CUT FLOWERS, and to
undertake all kinds of
l lonil Decorations at Reasonable Trices.
mO CAPITALISTS. SPECULATORS,
and Others.
Vacant Lands near Sydney
AVAILABLE UNDER THE
Non-Residential Clauses of the Land Act,
For particulars and terms apply to
“ INVESTIGATOR,”
Box 809, G.P.0., Sydney.
THE REFEREE.
Another step in the aquatic championship
tournament was advanced on 15th May, when Kemp de-
feated SPLean. When M'Lean held Kemp for the first
200 yards or so, it began to look as if youth and strength
would pull M'Lean through, but old hands at the game
saw that the young 'uu was pulling the shorter and
faster stroke, and odds were called on the veteran.
Like most sculling it was decided in the
first mile. In the generality of cases a beaten man
takes a spell and then has another “spurt” at
his man, but the defeated sculler on Thursday
stuck to his work without an “ease up” from start to
finish. The tide was a perfect terror, running up the
river like a mill-race, the heavy swish, as it struck the
piles of the bridge, showing the pace it was travelling,
and, as the course was covered against it in 2lmin. 462 s <■•,
it may pretty safely be surmised that the scullers would
have broken the record had the tide been with them.
M'Lean has a deal to learn, but he has the years before
him to learn it in, so that it is not likely the last has been
heard of him in the championship world.
* * #
This Kemp-M‘Lean race, rowed against a strong
flood tide in fast time, showed the champion to greater
advantage as regards stamina than on prior occasions,
while M'Lean, who got flurried and dug up bottom at
every stroke, made little use of his long reach and strong
hack. The public now thinks better of Kemp than it has
ever done before, hut they do not lose sight of the fact
that in pulling M'Lean Kemp had the advantage of being
the more experienced practitioner, the old dog on a hard
road.
* # *
The Kemp-Stansbury people have certainly
managed matters very cleverly, as outside the “ stable”
it is not known which is the better man of the two.
O’Connor is the only man they have to fear, now M'Lean
is out of the way, and if Kemp be better than Stansbury
the “ stable” will know exactly what O’Connor is, taking
a line from his race with Stansbury before meeting Kemp
for the championship. Kemp’s offer to row O’Connor,
without waiting for the result of the Stansbury race, may
be only a hit of “ bluff,” but it looks very much as if his
people regard him as the better man.
# # #
Yes, the sculling championship muddle has so
far panned out to suit the combined “ gaffers’ push,”
though O’Connor may settle Stansbury and M'Lean.
Should Stansbury beat O'Connor, we may expect some
peculiar manoeuvres in connection with the championship.
Kemp’s easy victory on Thursday last shows what a dis-
appointing creature is the promising novice and “ coming
man ”of the sporting world. All of us can remember
scores of men, who were to beat creation, turning out
very common clay indeed when the critical moment came.
M'Lean’s form was truly foreshadowed by his race with
Chris. Keilson. The public may be a little too enthusiastic
.over that other promising man, Stansbury.
* * *
Not the least sensible feature of Beach's sculling
career was his selection of Peter Kemp for the succession”
apparently.
Haitian appears to be not quite played out yet.
At Bridgeport (C.S. A) he beat Plaisted in a mile spin.
#• # *
O’Connor’s training on the Parramatta strangely
recalls Hanlan’s first visit to England. The touts could
not reckon Hanlan up, as he was never extended, and the
long slide was new to them. We was matched against
Hawdon, and an unknown had challenged Klliott, the
champion, so people were much interested in the Canuck,
who, by the way, did his first spins on the Manchester
Canal, but soon removed to the Tyne. Elliott, disguised
as an amateur, attempted a feeler‘with Haitian one morn-
ing, but David Ward, of Toronto, who ruled his towns-
man with an iron hand, spoilt the little game.
#
Hawdon and Lumsdeu, two English scullers of
the past, are matched. The latter was on the decline
when Trickett first visited England. Hawdon, who is yet
a young man, may he called the last champion of
England. After a brilliant career this youthful sculler
was about to he matched against Elliott, when he was
challenged by the then despised Hanlan. Englishmen
then believed themselves invincible, but the way in which
the Canadian donkey-licked Hawdon first and Elliott after-
wards opened their eyes, for Trickett’s success was
regarded as an accident. After being beaten by Hanlan,
Hawdon retired, but he may yet turn out a fairly-decent
champion—for England.
# # *
The Champion Fours race at the N.S.W, Asso-
ciation Regatta on Saturday last proved a most amusing
affair for the spectators— before the atari : at the finish,
the Breakfast Creek (Q.) crew had the smile all to them-
selves. Three crews started—Queensland, Mercantile,
and Balmain. When the Queenslanders put out for their
preliminary they were treated to a loud guffaw by the
steamer-load of spectators, and 10 to 1 as to their chance
would not have tempted a response. Their boat, which
was built up North, compared to the Mercantiles, was as
an express-waggon to a piano-box buggy, and when
stroke began, his wriggle would have put to the blush a
hungry snake^ chasing his breakfast; but the steamer-
load grew serious whenever a start was made, as the
Queenslanders got away from the jump and won from start
to finish from the Mercantiles, who rowed a hopeless race
m splendid form. The style shown by the winners would
not put them in a maiden race so far as looking at them
is concerned, hut they get there all the same, and, pro-
perly boated, it may safely be said they would lose any
four New South Wales has yet turned out. C. B. P. Bell",
a thirteen-stoner, rowed for Cambridge for two years in
the Oxford-Cambridge race.
* # *
Jt is high time that the cable liar ceased gib-
bering reliable information concerning White’s horses in
England. Last Friday morning the Agk announced that
turkham was making rapid improvement, while Narellan
bad been thrown out of work. In the evening the little
Herald broke out into a rash statement that Narellan
'vas showing vast improvement on the training-track,
trom which Kirkham had been absent for several days.
In this conflict of ignorance the public can see, if they
) choose to, the absurdity of paying the least attention to
a “special correspondent’s” turf twaddle. In this case
each man gleaned his news from a different sporting
paper, and the tout of neither paper knows for certain
which horse is which as he glares at them from afar off
through a pair of field glasses. Touting in England
is a far greater farce than out here, where
it is a tolerably inane business, anyway. Should
this meet the eye of anyone who has owned or
trained a stud of horses “ at home ” he will endorse The
Bulletin’s solemn declaration herewith, viz., that the
sporting papers generally credit rattling gallops to the
horses which are in physic, and state that the nags which
come under their notice, morning after morning, have
not left the stable for a fortnight. When the ravings of a
tout, who can’t find out anything worth mentioning, are
filtered through a chuckle-headed correspondent who
knows nothing at all well, it’s best to pass. The
“opinions ” of Matthew Dawson may likewise be received
with silent contempt. It old Mat. spins yarns (which he
probably does not) concerning Mr. White’s horses, he does
“ the same with intent to deceive.” When he trained for
Lord Falmouth, at a time when the crack stable was
watched by an army of touts, he used to pull off the
classic events with rank outsiders from time to time.
Even “ Archer’s mount” would be allowed to start at 33
to 1, and win.
* * #
The first groat Australian racehorse to be
shipped for England was Moran’s steeplechaser, Dutch-
man, from Melbourne, a wonderful gallopper, that could
■jump like a kangaroo-dog, but Moran and horse had been
disqualified here, and it held good on t’other side, more
especially as Dutchman, with Mickey Moran up, would
have a throw-in for the Grand National.
* * #
One thousand pounds has been refused for Tito-
kowaru. We should like to see Tito, with owner up, and
both fit and well, start for the Liverpool (Eng.) Grand
National.
* * #
Harry Evans has effectually settled the preten-
sions of six Australian billiard-players, two of whom, at
least had friends ready to back them against the veteran
Britisher in an American tournament at Melbourne. The
Superiority of Evans in style, skill, and knowledge of the
game was apparent all the time, fully justifying what
The Bulletin has been saying of him since he descended
upon this hemisphere nearly eight years ago. After the
tournament a level 1000 up, “ spot-barred,” was played
by young Weiss and the champion. The latter calmly
waited for the N.S. Waler until they reached the final
lap, and then won. It is odd that Evans, after being out
here all these years, should be able to find fourth-raters
willing to play him on even terms without the “ spot,”
seeing that the old km’s London reputation was made “all
round the table.” We are sorry to give Evans away—but
he has a little more up his sleeve still.
# * #
The V.R.C., always beat’rig previous records,
gives £2300 among five events at the forthcoming Flem-
ington Birthday meeting. Which reminds us that Clerk-
of-the-Sca!es Miles, whose management of the V.K.O.
office is a pattern for every racing-club under the sun, lias {
been around Sydney these last few days. .Miles always !
j impresses one as being the beau ideal of a man who—it
| the language of Sparkler, in “ Little Dorritt,” has “ no
[ bigod nonsense about him.”
*
That champion liar, the cable, was at it again
last week when it informed Australia that ‘■Billy-
.Murphy had “ skedaddled ” with fright when he. saw a
proposed opponent stripped for the combat. The idea of
B H.v” fearing anything in the shape of man is rithei
amusing to those who know the featherweight fire-eater.
Tlie Ananias next day. made some amends to William
however, by stating that be bad been presented with th<
light-weight champion belt in New York. This is noi
true either, as he is only a feather-weight.
* # ' *
Sydney Echo wants to know who the Fitz-
simmons is who has challenged America’s best middle
weight. Only the next best Australian at his weight to
Jim Hall, that’s all.
* * *
Walton, once known as the American Plunger,
who, after “a good meeting,” would nearly break Mu
Ring, is opening oysters in a New York saloon. The
world was his oyster, now oysters are his world.
The best place to hold the “World’s Fair.”
Round the waist ?
Gosh ! You look well ! So they all tel
me. I drink Marshall's Tonic Nervine regularly
Historical authorities have lately been
warmly discussing the population of ancient
Rome, and agree that it must have been fmr
millions, because the Circus Maximus was built
to hold 300,000, and neither women, children, noi
slaves went.
The Equitable Assurance Company bavin
purchased that valuable George-street block ad
joining Paling’s, and extending backwards t<
Chisholm lane, at about £3OO per foot less than
the land on both sides, intend to erect on it then
head-offices, as they have decided to make Sydne;
their headquarters.
Thomson, the distinguished African travel
ler, author of “ Through Massai Land,” writes ii
truly awful style about the havoc which alcohol i:
wreaking amid the much-missionised African
savages. Three-fourths of the liquor, abominabk
rum, at Is. (3d. a gallon, is furnished by the
Germans ; even cheaper than the Christian whisky,
at ninepence a bottle, of which a thousand cases
lately went to Bombay, for the conversion of a
people who knew naught of it till glorious England
came.


Business Announcements.
PR DDY & CO.,
Hats made to Order-
manufacturers
HATS
OF
\V
H
OF
_
Morley's Hosiery.
438 George Street, Sydney.
Branch— o7S Gtoiye Street, BrirktieUl lii't.
WILLIAM CAI! 0 i LL,
Photographic Stock Importer,
26 MAEKET STREET,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
PROBLEM OF TO-DAY —WHERE CAN WE GET GOOD
BOOTS?—SOLVED AT LAST.
m FK.B.UCH
(The French of years ago)
Can supply Residents here with Boots better made than
ever Boots that must wear well and give satisfaction.
Send your orders then to 82 Oxford Street, and be sure
to enclose Sizes and Remittance, when your parcel will he
sent at once by Post, Rail, or Steamer.
Notice Prices for Boots that look well, wear well
and fit well.
Children's Elastic-sides, 2/-, 2/11, 3,0, 4/-, 4/0, etc \ Best
Men’s & Youths’ ditto, 5,6, 6/-, 0,0, 7/6, 8/6, etc. / Boots
Men’s & Boys’ Bluchers, 2/11, 4/-, 5/ ; , 6/-, best ever made.
A Line of Sti/fish Laced Boots for Best Wear
(Boys’, Youths’ and Men’s Sizes).
Kgr 3 ENGLISH BOOTS for LADIES, CHILDREN, etc.,
Sent as ordered. Lowest Price.
Satisfaction given or Mosey Returned.
Xote the Address :
ECLIPSE BOOT CO.,
83 Oxford Street, SVftNKV.
E. French, Manager.
10. C. L.
V Ell Y = OKI) = SPECIA I-
SCOTCH - WHISKY.
DISTILLERIES CO. (Limited).
Book of IXTat-ure.
©pi
■iri
, A
i mi
B 1
12 -if.
'
-■ v-
m
ir : \ *
•ajncj.'Bja:, jo s^oog[
t»OOK OF NATURE and Illustrated Matr -
mon*al Guide. a full and explicit explanation
of the structure and uses of the organs of life and genera
tion in man and woman, intended especially for t.u
married, or those intending to marry, and who console,
tion si v ad honestly desire to inform themselves upon tie
intent and nature of marriage and its duties, to which .
added a complete MEDICAL TItKAIISK upon alll disen*
of the generative organs, whether resulting from infection.
or sexual excesses and abuse, with much other yalm.i !■
and highly important information, illustrated with mor-
than fiflv engravings, price 3/0, post 4/-. The hrnits ...
Philosophy or Private Companion for Mamed 1 eop
post 1 •> ' Mrs. BeSant’s Law of Population, 1/-, post 1
Aristotle, complete. 30. post Maria Monk, 1 0 post 1
“Th ■ Matron's Manual o. Mtdw.fery, the liook e\et,.
married woman s;pri- ■ posted ,/6. The arts ot
Boxing, Swimming and Gymnastics made easy, enabling
anyone to become an expert boxer or at.dete, illustrate
with fifty engravings ; price 1/-. ‘‘Marriage as it was v
it is and as it should be,” by Mrs. Besant, 1 posted 1 -
Dr Foote’s Plain Home Talk, new edition, over 200 illu
stations; 7/6, post- free. Matrimony, or Phrenology
' nf i Physiology applied to the selection ot Consent.
Companions for Life, fid. Ine Elements of Social Science
.. ■■ „ os ted 4 - Nigger Songs, fid. Henry George s " orks
ail’at 1 , posted 1/4." How to Mesmerise. Thought Read
in.. Mesmeric entertainments, &c.. Arc. ; price l/fi
Modern Etiquette. Parties, Courtship, Love,
in<*■ Introductions, Weddings, &c., lu. -the Male (xeneia
five Organs, their use and abuse, in health and disease,
from infancy to old age, with the treatment of all then
derangements, for every mans own private use; illus-
trated bv numerous engravings and colored plates by
l)r F ilolliek. M.D.: new revised Australian edition,
superior cloth binding, gilt : price 6/-, post- free Works
of Ingersoll, Paine, Bradlaugh, Besant, 1-oote. Send for
catalogue.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Radical Book Storks,
16A, PARK STREET. SYDNEY.
Hotels.
TWAIN’S FAMILY & COMMERCIAL HOTEL,
VV PRINCES STREET,
(Opposite Ct.P.O.)
ZtsT.Z.
A LEV I'Aini-K
Proprietor.
L.S
HRACER
A
V*'
\V
■t
V v
SCIENTIFIC
INSTRUMENT MAKER
m.
■;'
mam#-
St. Patrick : “ Come—come— come- now- move an Get out o this -aft wid yez ! !
Li fe.
G-rand. Pier Hotel, JMCemly.
4 t
Hi
HECrmC PHOTO END. C 0„ 8 BRIDGE-STv SYDNEY-
LITIJIER A BROOKE » Proprietors.
, „ • i Cuisine aid Comfort a Speciality.
This Hotel nas beei • ~-l urnishea , . . ...
Aarons’ Exchange KcteL Sydney.
m< I 11
I % ■
JrsHfv- 'nr; v, > at
s
gif
;b .*-»
. *f :
Adjoining the Sydney Exchange.
Minins', Financial and General Mercantile Intelligence
Posted several times DAILY in tlie Building.
tel I GRAPH, POST and MONEY ORDER OFFICES on the PREMISES.
This Hotel has been thoroughly renovated and re-furnished, and is now unrivalled for comfort
ud attention. Aarons’ Exchange Hotel Co. (Limited!, Proprietors.
ifVHTS brand of Razor is something superior to anything that has ever been to
_ , i leather case, 21/-
leautiful case, 30/-
Heffistered 7 and sent Post Free to any part'ot the Australian colonies.
OK-A-XC3- & AITKEW, Potosi Hairdressing Saloon.
680 & 682 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
nnvintee eaHi tvazor lor wo m ltv r » . : \ a
"elves they cannot possibly do better than to try tins particular brand.
‘ (Single Razor, in strong leather case, 10/6; I air, in beautiful n ?°'™c< b
Price - sin ;,. ]( , Rtusor ivory handle, 15/-; Pair Razors, ivory handles, m beantif
, i T -v. _ avP Anuf.rnlin.n fimfllllfiS.
SO L E AGENTS:
JONES’ SEWING MACHINES,
FOR THE BOOT AND TAILORING TRADES.
The Best Manufacturing Machines in Existence.
Now Perfected, tlie New No. 3 and No. 4 Machines on an Entirely new System.
STOC lEC
parleigH,
TANNERS
16 x YORK
JUST L .A. 35T ID X IDsT <3- _
KTettneim, &
AND LEATHER MERCHANTS,
x STREET , x SYDNTEY.
00.,
Sole Agents for the above for New South Wales and Queensland.
'x)
I X )
u, s „ -5 MSS
Met.rii ;*■ l»l»» «“ Term,.
Medical.
DR. RICHARDS.
:■-:• *'
This eminent Specialist, Founder, and Chief
Surgeon of the long-established and favourably-
known Dispensary that now bears his name, re-
ceived his medical education in the leading colleges
and hospitals of Europe, lie has devoted a life-
time to the study of
PRIVATE, NERVOUS, AND SKIN
DISEASES.
He has by profound research thoroughly investi-
gated their origin, traced their deadly sources and
insidious dissemination, and ascertained the surest
and safest methods by which they may bo eradi-
cated, with these widely recognised qualifications
combined with unswerving faithfulness to his
patients, he has during his practice, extending
over FORTY YEARS, attained a well-deserved
pre-eminence in their treatment. His practice
embraces diseases which probably cause more un-
happ'noss than any other class of troubles that
afflict mankind.
YOUNG MEN
who'suffer from the results of early follies, trans-
gressions or excesses of more nature age, bladder
difficulties, a whitish or dark ropy sediment in
the water, accompanied by slight burning or
smart ing sonsat ion, Headaches, Drowsiness during
the day, circles round the eyes, Giddiness,
irregularity of the bowels, specks before the eyes,
bashtulnefs, discontentedness, weakness or pains
in the back. Liver or kidney complaints, dreams,
burning noises in the ears and head, pimples, a
fear that something dreadful is about to happen,
weak stomach, yellow or blood-shot eyes, impure
blood, hasty, uncontrollable temper, hacking
cough, who cannot marry, nervousness in society,
wakefulness, palpitation of the heart, general
weakness, and other symptoms which lead to in-
sanity and death, should consult him, for he has
mastered these difficulties. On receipt of Gd. in
stamps he will send secure from observation in r
plain wrapper, postage
FREE, A LARGE CLOTH-BOUND
BOOK.
Showing plainly how all diseases of the private or
nervous system may be cured thoroughly and per-
manently without unnecessary expence. Ibis
book will prove a valuable companion, and even
though you be perfectly well its general inform-
tion and prescription may assist you in restoring
some poor friend to health even after his case has
been pronounced incurable by his medical at-
tendant.
ONE POUND IS SUFFICIENT TO
SEND
for Remedies necessary for the euro of NER-
VOUS DEBILITY. Should you require medical
treatment, as procrastination is sometimes dan-
gerous, it would he advisable for you to sit down
quietly in your chamber and write to the doctor,
detailing every experienced symptom. He will
on receipt of such a letter, write you, promptly
and courteously, a candid and straightforward
oponion of your ease. If you do not think you
understand the case, send for his famous medical
work, the price of which is but sixpence ; enclosed
in the volume will be found a list of careful 1} -pie-
pared questions, which will, in all probability,
assist you materially in describing your ailment.
Dr Richards uses nothing but the purest remedies,
and never prescribes mercury under any circum-
stances. The moment letters are carefully per-
used and answered they are destroyed by lire,
and patients may rest assured that their cases
will remain a secret between the doctor and
themselves. Dr. Richards has successfully treated
nearly 25,000 cases since coming to Australia, and
has permission from at least 10,000 persons to
show their written evidence of his success. All
communications should be addressed
Dr. RICHARDS,
7 spring Street
(Oft Pitt Street North)
SYDNEY.
Bo suro to mention this paper when writing
CONSULTATION J'UPL.


Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
K
ci
o
o
D
ENTS.
DELISSA i PHILLIPS
3&t5 Barrack Street.
Companies.
I'he Itrilish anti Xew South Wales In vestment
ami Financial Fo., Limited.
Incorporated under the Companies’ Act, 1874.
Capital, £250,000.
Sydney,Office: 240 PITT STREET,
DICES DISCOUNTED and Immediate Advances granted
* Daily. Country communications promptly attended
to. The following Rates of Interest are allowed for Fixed
Deposits:
3 Years .... .... 10 per cent.
12 Months .... 0 per cent.
0 Months .... 8 per cent.
3 Months .... .... 7 per cent.
'VI th a Guaranteed Bonus on Renewals of Twelve Months
and over.
By order of the Board.
AY. M‘ DONALD, Manager.
liens’ Life Assurance Company,
LIMITED.
Capital X 200,000.
Head Office:
21 Castlereagh St., Sydney,
With Branches and Agencies throughout the Colonies.
HXTe'w
There >vei
Business:
Issued 19,557 Policies.
ISBJ There were Issued 10,557
•888 „ „ „ 84,084
18*9 .. „ ~ 57,822 ~
n hese figures show the wonderful progress of the
nnpany and the high esteem placed upon its
liberal dealings by the public.
CLAIMS PAID
Immediately on Proof of Death
JAMES P. OARVAN,)
WM. ALEX. SMITH, J
Managing Director.
Secretary.
Allcock’s Porous Plasters.
•—IN—
Chest, Liver, and Kidney Affections,
St. Yury an Vicarage, Grampound-road,
Cornwall, January, 18'JO.
Dear Sir, —I write to inform you that your
“ Allcock’s Porous Plasters ” arc excellent —a real
blessing. Whatever I may say, X feel I cannot
praise them sufficiently. I have given away
hundreds amongst the poor and suffering, and T
cannot recall a single instance where they' failed
to give relief. They have been used by me for
complaints in the chest, liver, kidneys, and spine,
with marked results, in fact, 1 know of three
special cases out of many (one of chest, one of
liver, one of kidneys) where the sufferers had been
to the infirmary, tried many doctors, without any
benefit, and wore told that nothing more could be
done, i gave them your plasters, and after a fair
trial of them the result was really wonderful.
The sufferer in the chest no longer complains of
weakness, has lost all distressing cough, and is
quite strong - . The sufferer from liver complaint
no longer complains of indigestion and pains in
the side and between the shoulders, but is quite a
different person. The sufferer from kidney com-
plaint no longer lies in bed nine months in the
year in agonies, but is able to get out of doors
every day, and is free from pain. I shall recom-
mend these plasters wherever I go.-—With all
good wishes for the New Year, yours very grate-
fully,
James Arthur Kemp, Minister.
ALLCOCK’S POROUS PLASTERS are sola
by all Chemists, in various sizes, from 1 Tf to 22/fi
fee sure you get Allcock’s.
Shipping.
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF NEW
ZEALAND. Limited.
SAN FRANCISCO KOVAL MAIL SERVICE.
OVERLAND ROUTE TO ENGLAND VTA SAN
FRANCISCO AND NEW YORK,
Calling at
AUCKLAND and HONOLULU,
Avoiding- alike the heat of the Red Sea and the cold
of (tape Horn.
Under Contract with the Postmasters-Oeneral of New
South Wales and New Zealand, the steamers of this line
are appointed to leav e Sydney and Auckland for Honolulu
and San Francisco every fourth Wednesday, sailing as
under: -
Leave
Steamer, Tons, j Commander. ; Sydney
at 4 p.m
Mariposa 3000 H. M. Hayward June 11 July 5
I ’ ' ' ! '
Zealandiu 1 JOI.O iVan Oterendorp July !) August 2
Each steamer carries a duly qualified surgeon.
These steamers are lilted with Electric Light and with a
Ref liberating Chamber for ship provisions, insuring a
plentiful supply of ice throughout the voyage.
Passengers are booked, to San Francisco or through to
European destinat ions and have at San Francisco choice of
the unrivalled Atlantic Steamship Lines of the Cunard,
Inman, White Star, and other companies.
All first-class passengers are allowed 3501 b. of baggage
to San Francisco and 2501 h. “ Overland ” free of charge.
THROUGH FARE TO LIVERPOOL.
FIRST-CLASS .. .. £63 to £66.
Time-cards, railway maps, and gu de books, showing all
rentes to any point in the United States, may he had on
application
. Eor rales of passage and freight and all other informa-
tion apply r.t the Company’s Offices, 15 Bridge-street.
FRF.DK. W. JACKSON, Manager.
Arrive at
San
Francisco,
How Furnishing' a House Costs Nothing in the End!
—):(
GET Two Respectable Boarders when yon take up house, and the cost of furnishing it very
thoroughly, and throughout, too, at LAWLER’S will come back to. you in about five months.
In a country where rents are so high as in New South Wales, something has to be done by the
housekeeper of LIMITED MEANS to make boths ends meet.
STUDY WHAT LAWLER & SONS,
—OF—
-608, 810, 612 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
CAN DO FOR YOU TO HELD YOU ALONG.
This applies to Town or Country Purchasers.
The undermentioned articles for the fitting out and furnishing of a shug and comfortable home are
compiled with a view to a housekeeper taking in two boarders immediately after furnishing.
NOTHING OMITTED ! EVERYTHING GOOD !
For £35. THIS ASTONISHING REVELATION. ZE’or £35.
And how soon “ a couple ” can put it together if they mean business.
THIS £35 LIST of Lawler’s will enable one and all to judge of the value submitted in the
Furnishing Department of the Emporium, from which Lawler’s are eliminating completely at sacrifice
rates. The Boots, Clothing and Drapery Departments, as all Sydney pretty well knows by this. A
Clearance intended for the further development of the Furnishing Business with which our name has
for 30 years been so closely connected.
Country customers can have the “ Illustrated Furnishing Guide” posted free upon application.
THE HOME —008, 010, 612 GEORGE-STREET—TURN-OUT FOR £35.
KITCHEN, &c.
Breakfast Service, of 44 pieces
(nice pattern)
Dinner Service, of 50 pieces
(nice pattern)
Meat Safe
h Dozen Knives, .! Dozen Forks
I Dozen Tablespoons, | Dozen Teaspoons
1 Cruet and 2 Salt Cellars
4 Saucepans, 1 Boiler
1 Kettle, 1 Frying-pan, 1 Griddle
Set Pudding Bowls and Pie Dishes
Kitchen Dresser with Drawers
Set Blacking Brushes, 1 Clothes Brush
1 Scrub Brush, 1 Black Lead Brush
Bannister Brush
1 Strong Fibre Door Mat
BEST BEDROOM (Married Coupled-
Full-sized Double Bedstead, half-tester,
strong, and nicely ornamented
Strong Wire-Spring Mattress
Pure Woollen Flock Mattress
Bolster and two Java Kapok Pillows
4 Pillow Slips
2 Pairs Sheets
2 Pairs Blankets
2 White Counterpanes
Set Mosquito Curtains
Sec Painted Toilet Ware, full number of pieces
Hair Brush, Comb
Tooth Brush, Hail Brush
Large 7-dra\ver Chest of Drawers
Toilet Cover, 2 cane-seat Chairs
Washstand, neat and well-made, with Towel-
rail attached
Toilet Table and good-sized Toilet Glass
2 Toilet Covers
1 Pair White Lace Curtains
1 Carpet Square
I Dozen Towels.
DINING - ROOM AND SITTING ■ ROOM
COMBINED.
Large Dining Table, set 6
White Tablecloth
Coloured ditto
h dozen Napkins
Oilcloth for Floor
6 Austrian Chairs
1 Pair White Lace Curtains
1 Strong well Upholstered Couch
1 Hearthrug
1 ;\sh Tray
1 Serviceable and Nice Clock
6 Glasses
6 Cups and Saucers
12 Plates and 3 Dishes
THE BEDROOM FOR TWO BOARDERS.
2 Bedsteads, half-testers, single sizes ; 2 Wove-wire Mattresses, 2 good Wool-flock do., the Bolsters
and Kapok Pillows for same, 2 Pillow Slips, 2 pairs Sheets, 2 pairs Blankets, 2 White Quilts, 2 Matting
Bedside Slips, 3 Hair Brushes, 2 Combs, 2 Nail Brushes, 2 Tooth Brushes, 1 pair Lace Curtains, Wash-
stand with Toilet Ware, Toilet Table and Glass for same, 2 Toilet Covers.
LAWLeB' <35 sous
POINT WITH PRIDE TO THE ABOVE £35 CASH LIST.
rn
& CO.,
SYDNEY;
318 GEORGE STREET
BRISBANE
9 ELIZABETH STREET
PHOTOGRAPHIC
-STOCK-
IMPORTERS.
'i i
w*.
w-
* V
•-4
r ;*» *»£»
Jj *
mr SEND FOR OUR NEW ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE
—OF—
CAMERAS. LENSES, CHEMICALS, MAGIC LANTERNS,
And all Articles appertaining to PHOTOGRAPHY.
):(
CZZSAIP amateur outfits.
Shipping.
UDDART, PARKER & CO.’S LINE
STEAM TO
MJhililiOUHN E anti TASMANIA.
From Hnddart, Parker’s Wharf.
For Time and bate of Sailing, see daily papers.
The magnificent steamships, BLUR t'MBEET and
FLINT!AMITE, hat e established an unrivalled reputation
for then; speed and accommodation, and their large size
ensures passengers a maximum of comfort. The saloon
cabins arc light, airy and very roomy. The dining saloon
is full width of the ships, also magnificent music room,
with gentlemen's smoking room and splendid promenade
deck. Fore-cabin is on the main deck —lofty and well-
ventilated, perfect sanitation and ample lavatories. Fore-
cabin passengers provided with victuals and rugs. Inspec-
tion invited on days of sailing.
FARES to MELBOURNE :
Saloon, Single £l5 0
~ Return 2 5 0
Forecabin ... ... ... ... 10 0
FARES to LAUNCESTON :
Saloon, Single ... £2 5 0
~ Return 315 0
Forecabin 10 0
FARES to HOBART :
Saloon, Single £lO 0
~ Return 110 0
Kcturu Tickets available for Six Months.
For Freights apply
HUDDAET, PARKER & CO-
(Ltmitrd).
Office and Wharf: Foot of Margaret Street, Sydney.
NORDDEUTSCHER LLOYD.
IMPERIAL GERMAN MAIL.
Passengers are carried according to the requirements of
the English Passenger Acts of 1885 and 1863.
MONTHLY LINE OF DIRECT STEAMERS
from
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, and ADELAIDE,
to SOUTHAMPTON, ANTWERP, and BREMEN, via
COLOMBO, Aden, Suez, and Genoa,
taking passengers for London,
connecting from PORT SAID by DIRECT MAIL and
PASSENGER LINE to BRINDISI,
will be despatched as follows (if practicable):—
And thereafter every four weeks.
PASSAGE MONEY from SYDNEY,
£l4 to £57 10s,
RETURN TICKETS, available for NINE and TWELVE
MONTHS, at REDUCED RATES.
Passengers and Cargo are booked through to New York,
via Southampton.
Special facilities are afforded for bringing out relatives
and friends from the United Kingdom and Europe by pre-
payment of the passage money in Australia.
For FREIGHT, PASSAGE, and all further particulars,
apply to FREDK. BETZ & CO., Aoknts, 6 O’Connell-street.
COMPAGNIE DES MESSAGERIES MARI*
TIMES.
SYDNEY to LONDON.
OVERLAND FROM MARSEILLES via PARIS.
Steamers under postal contract with the Government of
Prance, calling at MELBOURNE ADELAIDE, KING
GEORGE’S SOUND, MAKE, SUEZ, and PORT SAID.
Passengers hooked to KURRACHEE, BOMBAY,
MAURITIUS, and EAST COAST of AFRICA.
The service is carried on by powerful steamers of 4000
tons and 3000 effective h.p., built expressly for the Aus-
tralian and New Caledonian line, which will be despatched
as follows:
And thenceforward on the 25th of each month.
Rates of passage-money to Marseilles from £2O to £65,
including table wines and Suez Canal dues on passengers.
RETURN TICKETS issued at the following rates: — .
English interpreters meet through passengers for
London on arrival of steamers at Marseilles, and accom-
pany them to Paris and Calais. N.B. Passengers’luggage
conveyed free of cost from Marseilles to London. For
freight, passage, and further particulars apply at the
Company’s Office, 15 Macquarie-place.
A. CONIL, Principal Agent.
D
IRECT SERVICE TO ENGLAND.
PENINSULAR AND ORIENTAL STEAM
NAVIGATION COMPANY.
The Company’s Royal Mail Steamships (under contract
with the Imperial, New South Wales, Victorian, and South
Australian Governments) will be dispatched from their
Wharf, Circular Quay, as under, for LONDON, calling at
Melbourne, Adelaide, Albany, Colombo, Aden, Brindisi,
Malta, Gibraltar, and Plymouth.
Steamers.
Commander.
Valetta .. 4919 R. F. Briscoe ..
Ballaarat .. 4748 E Ashdown _
Parramatta [47711R. G. Murray
Oceana .. ,6362' P. S. Tomlin ..
Massilia .. 4918 |C. Frazer .. ..
I I
cjw 0 *
1-3
June 2 (June 7 |Jun.ll
June 16 June 21Jun.25
June 30 July n July 9
July, 14 July 19jjuly23
July 28 Aug. 2(Aug. 6
And henceforth every alternate week.
RESERVED CABINS ON MODERATE TERMS.
SALOON PASSENGERS MAY BREAK THEIR JOURNEY.
The arrangements for SECOND SALOON PASSENGERS
having been thoroughly re-organised, the accommodation
now offered is unsurpassed. Passage-money can be paid
here for passages from England. Liberal concessions made
to families. Passengers, cargo, and parcels are booked
through to India, China, and Japan. Cargo and parcels
will not be received after 3 p.m. on the day previous to
sailing. For all information apply at the Company’s
Offices, 247 George-street. A. MACLEAN Acting Agent.
JOHN BRIDGE,* 00.,
CIRCULAR QUAY, SUSSEX STREET, <fc
DARLING HARBOUR,
WOOL BROKERS,
Hides, Tallow, Sheepskins, Kangaroo, Bear emd
Opossum Skins, dec.
ATJCTIOITEEBS.
aRiLIM SA-LESMEW
The Queen Has a Cold!!!— Cablegram.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
“The Queen has a cold !”
Fite fact I’d forgotten as soon as ’twas told,
It Caused mo at first neither sorrow nor gladness,
Though twas told in a tone of most exquisite sad-
ness—
“ The Queen lias a cold I”
. “ The Queen has a cold !”
Cood gracious ! well, now if I rniytd make so bold
As to state that my life become- none the less
cheerful.
Though you moan once again, as I'm not looking
tearful,
"The Qutm has a cold !”
“ The Queen has a gold ! ”
I’heK talk of nought else, do my friends young and
old : " ,
As 1 fail to see cause for solicitude in it
I’ll he saying rude things of the Queen in a
minute—
The Queeii with a cold.
•“ The Queen has a cold ! ”
Well, I wonder that all of you haven’t got hold
Of more details connected with Royalty’s wheezing,
When the Court is a-coughing, the Sovereign
sneezing,
The Queen has a cold.
“ The Queen has a cold !”
Once Was too often, but still they unfold
The sad story—myself I’ll absent for a little
Until as all others this craze prove as brittle,
This “ Queen with a cold,"’
(After an absence of several months.)
The year’s growing old,
Trees in the park shower crimson and gold,
1 expected a welcome, but got, as a greeting,
The familiar drivel, the annual bleating :
“ The Queen has a cold ! ! "
Matty in and out of the city will be pleased to
know that Ceeelman and Co., photographers in
the Sydney Arcade, have reduced their charges
for photographs. Cabinets now 15s. per dozen.
A Bundaberg (Q.) journalist, named John
Rowland, has invented an apparatus for cutting and
topping cane in the field, if it proves successful,
the chief excuse for the employment of kanaka
labour is doomed.
Bona-Fide announcement. Highest cash price
given for all kinds of gent’s left off clothing.
Dress-suits for sale or hire. Letters promptly
attended to by QUITTENTON BROS., 11l
Russell street, MELBOURNE. (New number,
163.)
A BOON TO HUMANITY.
’Tis food for young and food for old,
It gives new life and vital power,
There’s nothing in the market sold
Like PemeWs patent Snow-white Flour,
At Louth, Darling River, N.S.W., a man
sentenced to 4 months gaol for assaulting the
police, has lately been confined in a cell in which
there are 15 inches of water. A new departure
n the way of cold water cures.


Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
Us»* Batho’s Baking Powder.
John Bridge and Co.’s Weekly Report.
Woof.. For our usual fortnightly sale! wo sub-
mitted a catalogue of 03 hales ami 03 bags. Market
ruled on a level with last quotations, the hulk of
catalogue being cleared at fullest current rates.
Shkki’SKTNs. Supplies not nearly equal to the
demand, and market remains very firm. Butchers
tops, 58 to 70 ; medium to good, 40 to 40; small,
28 to 36; pelts, Bto 24. Station skins.—Full
wools, 5 to 5.f ; mediums, 3f to 4:/ ; pelts and short
growths, 2\ to 3 4- .
Hioks.—Market unaltered. Extra heavies, m
good order, 3.| to 34 ; prime heavies, 2§ to 3i;
green ditto, 24 to 2} ; mediums—prime, 2| to 2| ;
green, 2$ to 2|; lights, 2J to 2g ; faulty hides, 14
to 24.
Tallow. — Supplies small and market very firm.
Prime, £2O to £2O 15s. ; good, £lB 15s. to £lO 155.;
medium, £l7 10s. to £lB 10s.; inferior and broken
packages, to £l7 ss.
May 20, k>o.
Notice to Artistic and Literary Contrllmtors
Strictly Original matter contributed to This Bulletin
will be paid for. The Editor will be glad to receive Mid
I consider contributions as under :—
1. Original humorous or political matter, illustrated or
otherwise. ( Drawings must be made in clean lines
of Indian ink on white paper or Bristol-board.)
2. Unpublished anecdotes of living celebrities, or people
who ought to be celebrated.
3. Humorous poems (from eight to forty-eight lines pre-
ferred).
U. Serious poems, of similar or greater length, especially
those suitable for pictorial illustration.
5. Short Australian or other stories, up to, say, 3000
words. About half that length, or even less, will
be preferred.
All Contributions must be Written Legibly, on One
Silk Only of the paper, and folded, not rolled. The
name and address of the writer must appear, in all
cases, on the MS. itself, and not merely on an accompany-
ing letter or paper. The Proprietors do not hold them-
selves ■ responsible for Rejected Contributions; but, if
accompanied by a stamped, and addressed envelope or
wrapper, every effort will be made to return them.
The Editor does not undertake to enter into any
correspondence respecting rejected Manuscripts.
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
Reliable Watch Repairs. Daii.ms & Co., King-st; Arcade
Government Advertisements.
Department of Public Works,
Sydney, May 21, 1890.
Tenders for public works and
supplies.
For Conditions, see Government Gazette.
TENDERS for the Works, &c., specified below
will be received at this Department until 11 0 clock
a.m. on the dates mentioned.
WEDNESDAY, MAY 28.
Repairs, &c., at Lighthouse, Orowdy Head.
Construction of Landing Stage at Menmdio, and
Supply of Crane for service thereon (time
extended)
Removal of Rocks, &c., Port Macquarie
Engines for Sand Pump Dredgers, Nos. 4 and o
Repairs, &c., of Lighthouse, Newcastle (tresh
tenders) _ , T . , ,
Fixing, &c., Turret Clock, Coast Hotpital, Little
Bay . _ .. ,
Drainage of Orange, Kite-street to Lord s-place
(fresh tenders) . ,
Removal of Three Government Coal Staiths,
Newcastle . , .. ,
Wharf, Cockle Greek, Brisbane Water (fresh
tenders) .
Erection of Workman’s Cottage, Walka, Munter
River District Water Supply (fresh tenders)
Erection of Engine and Boiler House, North
Shore Water Supply (time extended.)
Construction of Alexandria Park Stormwater
Sewer-Contract 61 Sydney Sewerage
Laying Stoneware Pipe Sewers, Ealcon and other-
streets, North Shore.—Contract 60 Sydney
Sewerage
WEDNESDAY, JUNE 11.
Construction of Tramway, Yass railway station
intoYass ...
Construction of Tunnels, &c,, Main Western Gut-
fall Sewer.—Con tract No. 62 Sydney Sewerage
Additions, &c., Lockup, Bnrrowa
Bridge over Bega River, at Tarraganda
Erection of Police Barracks, Tingha
Bridge, Curban Creek, road Dubbo to Coonannble
Erection of Post and Telegraph Office, Kogarah
Erection of Post and Telegraph Office, Marnck-
vflle
Supply, &c., Turret Clock, &c., Court House,
Wollongong
Bridge, Gilargambone Creek, road Dubbo to
Coonamble. • ,
Erection of Lockup, Brushgrove, Clarence River
(fresh tenders). , „
Construction of First Section Sea Wall, Coogee
Bay
WEDNESDAY, JUNE 25.
Construction of Strong Room, Lands Office, Anm-
dale (fresh tenders) „ , ~ .
Additions Police Buildings, Cudgelhco (-fresh
tenders) , -
Repairs, &c., Post and Telegraph Office, Y ass
Bridge over the Murray River, at Corowa-Con-
tract No. I—Supply of Ironwork. Contract
No. 2—Erection of Iron Bridge
WEDNESDAY, JULY 9.
Works,
Nyugan-Cobar I ]
Railway j,
Plans, &c., to be seen at
the office of Engineer-in-
Chief, Railway Construc-
tion Branch, Phillip-
street, after May 28.
WEDNESDAY, JULY 16.
Works, Culcairn-Corowa Railway (Plans, &c.,
see above.)
WEDNESDAY, JULY 26.
Works, Kiama-Nowra Railway. (Plans, &c., see
above.)
WEDNESDAY, AUGUST 6.
Bridge, Hunter River at Aberdeen—Contract
No. I—Manufacture of Ironwork, &c. Con-
. tract No. 2—Erection of Bridge
WEDNESDAY, AUGUST 20.
Bridge, Darling River at Wentworth—Contract
No. 1-Manufacture, &c., Steel Lift Span on
Iron Piers. Contract No. 2—Erection of
Taft Span, &c., &c.
WEDNESDAY. OCTOBER U>.
Manufacture and Supply of 48-inch W roil'd it-
iron Water Pipes, special castings, &c. Con-
tract No. 72, Sydnev Whiter Supply. (Dupli-
cation of Pipe Line, Potts Hill to Sydney)
Manufacture and Supply of IS-inch Cast-iron
Water Pipes, special castings, &c.—Contract
No 76, Sydney Water Supply, (Duplication
General Post Office,
Sydney, 10th May, 1896-
A TTENTION is directed to Gazettk Notice
,iV inviting TENDERS for the CONVEY-
ANCE of MAILS between Uralla and Melrose;
Temora and Morangarell; Niraitybelle and Bobun-
darah; Kempsey and Boat Harbour, with a
branch mail between Macksvillo and Nambucca
Tenders will be received up to the 4th June
next and must bo addressed to the Secretary to
U«lWOfco,Sydu^ ANiix OWHNOR-
CORRESPONDENCE
“ A.L.0.” ; The lines (quoted by Premier
Parkes in his last Federation speech) were written
by John Farrell for Tub Bulletin “ Viator : ” Not
bad, but unsuitable.E. W. Markington”: We wouldn’t
give you twopence for the woman who wouldn’t tell
a lie to save her husband. This may be bad morality,
but it’s excellent human nature, and has held good for
scores of generations..J.D.”: We can't print your
matter without submitting it to the Full Court for
consideration. ...“Fair Flay”:* Far too crude
“ T.E.E.” (Newcastle): The poverty of the Pennsylvanian
miners is not caused by Protection, but by landlordism,
monopoly and want of organisation....“ J.Mc.” (Redfern);
Why send to us your attempt to convert the unregenerate
editor of another publication ?. .. “ H.F.H.”; Thanks
“ Jimmie Pannikin ”: The subject does not fit the metre
... “Chas. Harvey”: Bathetic. What-do you mean by
“countless without number?”....“M.H.” (Mossman’s
Bay): Persevere. MS. returned “Joseph Court”:
Glad you have found spiritual light in “ Juda;” the burn-
ing question is can you discover Tom Collins.... “ H.S.S.”
(Melbourne): We’ve seen something like your wedding-
sketch before “Geo. R." : What nonsense!
“ L.0.E.” : Why should a man be prevented from de-
clating his innocence through the press? If we had a
daily paper we’d allow any accused man or woman to do
so who thought fit to take that course. The present ten-
dency of the press is almost invariably to act as prose-
cutor.. .“Moses”; Why, they publish four lines from
Dean Swift as original matter.. . “ Tommy Pipefull”;
Nothing unusual in that. The sects would rather lend their
halls, «fce., to the Devil than to the opposition clergy.. .
“J.A.C.” (Vic.); We have your letter, but not the
extract.. . “ T. 8.” (Wagga) : Will read and consider
“ D.L.” (D.iylesford, Vic.) : Write to the secretary of the
Howard Society, London, asking him to send you some of
the society's publications. (2) We cannot tell you offhand,
but the rule abroad is to keep public libraries open on
Sunday. Thanks for good wishes.., “ John E.” (Yass) :
Thanks. Piease send it along. . “K.C.L.”: We don't
care for inserting letters in praise of ourselves, and never
allow The Bulletin to be called in these columns a valu-
able paper “ Dick —— ” ; When a man who has never
done us or the public any harm sends us such a letter as
yours, we don’t publish it, but burn it in justice-to
the writer .. “Law” (Go! Gol): Will consider
‘Scandinavia”: Consul Falstedt was quite right in pre-
venting the undefended man from going into the witness-
box. The Coroner’s contention that Sten was not a pri-
soner was a quibble “ Constant Header ” (VVagga
Wagga); Just you consult a first-class medical man.
Will mail you name of one if you send addressed enve-
lope “C. P. Hobart ’’(Croydon): Yon are confound-
ing phonograph and “ pbonegraph.” Y’ou had better
write the Inspector-General of Police, Sydney, if you get
no answer. An Edison phonograph would at present, if
procurable, cost no end of money. “ W.K.” (Char-
ters Towers) : Many thanks ; will do so next week ...
“G. E. S.” (Brisbane): Will write you a letter... “An-
gus Poncia” : Your question cannot be answered straight
off; have sent it to a lawyer “A. Allan” (S.):
Handed to artist.. . “G. H.” (Melbourne): Your com-
ment is perfectly Just. The Age, which has acted with
such malignity over the Irish question, can ill afford to
upbraid Parkes for not forgetting small personal' dif-
ferences while dealing with a great national matter. ~
“T. T. F.” (M. 11.): Will receive attention next week....
“ Rockhampton ” : Barry’s case is as bad an instance of
savage brutality as we hav e ever heard of; we much
doubt whether the man could have been both sane and
sober. If the judge, as reported, really told the jury that
it was their duty to find the prisoner guilty of murder,
then the prisoner should be reprieved and the judge
should be fired right off the bench in one act. Not more
than one province can afford to tolerate Mount-Ren-
nieism. [Many answers held over.]
Judging from the recent cable about
“Queen’s Birthday ‘honors,’” the Imperial
Government mean to try and politically bribe with
titles a number of members of the Australian
Federal Convention.
Editor Bulletin, — In the early days of
the Palmer goldfield, carriage from Cooktown to
the “field” being extremely heavy, goods were
proportionately high—so high, in fact, that many
a poor devil had to curtail his supply of necessaries
and leave luxuries severely alone. It is on record
that one storekeeper sold to a customer a “packing-
needle ” for the moderate sum of half-a-crown—
a price to which the purchaser demurred in the
language peculiar to pick-and-shoyel men. How-
ever, he was much mollified and paid for the
article without demur when the vendor vociferated,
“ Arrah, look at the carriage I paid on it!”
A Sydney evening paper says that the man
arrested on suspicion for the Domain murder
“wore a look of foreign doggedness” as he
appeared at the inquest. Such comments on a
man whose life is at stake are not only indecent,
but worthless. The sapient Sydney press put the
victim down as a regular Domain loafer, whereas
he was actually a hard-working, thrifty, prosperous
and well-nourished man.
An elegy in the obituary column of a Mel-
bourne newspaper begins thus :
His little triangle, for months he played,
In the South Melbourne Army Band:
But he’s left his place in the army below
For a place on the golden strand.
We suppose that by this time the deceased saints
of the Salvation Army have it all their own way
on the golden strand, and the old celestial per-
formers, with their one tune, da eapo everlastingly,
liave had to come down to playing overtures for
<i reuses in the country parts of Heaven. This
suggests to us a little apologue in verse :
A sweet soul was (say) William Shand,
But very nervous;
He hated the Salvation Band
As some men Purves.
And when he died and found that band
Cawhooping madly
In Heaven, he took St. Peter’s hand,
And whispered sadly ;
“ I’ve been deceived—it makes me sick —
This is a sell, sir,
If this be Heaven, pray show me quick
The road to hell, sir.”
The directors of the Minims Premier
Building Society, barring one, are teetotallers.
“ Who would be free, themselves must
strike the blow,” observed the hen-pecked hus-
band, as he stove in his wife’s skull with the poker.
Says Mrs. Lynu Liuton : “Of a work
lately published one man alone wrote sixteen
reviews. The auth r was his friend. xvidei
Haggard and Andrew Lang?
The Cooktown (Q.) Independent on local
furies: —
For five years there have been selected in this town as
intelligent jurors, some ignorant and criminal blackguards,
who can’t write their own names and never learned to
even read the Lord’s Prayer. Several o£ the selected,
on whose opinions men’s liberties and lives depend, are
drunkards, thieves, wife-beaters, and coarse libertines,
and yet a dignified judge and his flippant associate tell
the criminal the legal rubbish about “ Whose country jou
are,” and the solemn farce goes on evidently tor yews.
On one empanelled jury in Cooktown during the last -
months there were men severally sworn, who had been
convicted of that most cowardly of all social offences, viz.,
beating to jellies the poor trusting women who became
their wives.
A recent anecdote of Tennyson reports him
to have uttered, in the course of a country walk
“ What an imagination (ton has ! and a British
bishop goes into ecstasies over the phrase, fcut it
makes one almost despair of the intellectual
advancement of the race that a man like Tenny-
son should at this time of day conceive of the
Deity as being a reflex of petty Inimanity, W hen
4 4 good people ” read their virtues into God, and
thinking and imaginative people their mental
qualities into Him, they mustn't be surprised if
the bad and sinful sort see in Him their qualities
also. An anthropomorphic God lias got to be
human all round.
Dear Bulletin, —I see you have your weather-
eve on these parts. There are people, and people belong-
ing to one of the Six Families, who if they don’t directly
advocate the employment of Chinese labour on these tin-
fields do so by implication. In the report of a meeting
held in Bunhury, the other day, Sir J. Lee Steere (the
man who is credited by his enemies with ha\ mg said If
a man be born poor ho should remain poor”) said that
the Tasmanian tin-fields never proved a success till the
advent of cheap Chinese labour. Now the tin-fields from
which I write are anything but a success, with the excep-
tion of about half-a-dozen claims, the failure of
VOCAL VERSUS INSTRUMENTAL.
LARRIKIN (to German hand): “STOP YER BLOOMIN’ MUSIC!
GERMAN: “VAT YOU SAY?”
LARRIKIN : “STOP YER BAND! I WANT TO HEAR THE COVE HOWL
WOT’S COPPIN THE OAT INSIDE.”
the place being in a great measure due to the
fact that the present leasing-system contains a labour
clause unworthy of the name, and any outsider would
very naturally assume that Sir J. Lee Steere would
like to try the remedy that he imagines acted well in Tas-
mania. This is, indeed, a nice return to make after the
help given by the Eastern provinces to W.A. re the Re-
sponsible Government question, for Sir J. Lee Steere
knows perfectly well that the other Austrahas are dead
against the introduction of Chinamen. A batch of Chows
were imported only a few weeks ago by contractors, but
not just about here. Somebody has nicknamed Sir J. Lee
Steere “ the Longitudinal Steere.” —Yours truly, Sluice-
Box. Greenbushes Tin-Fields, Nr. Bunbury, May 2,1890.
Dear Bulletin, — Affiliation of the Sydney
Institute of Journalists and the \ ictorian Re-
porters’ Association is on the carpet. The former
is almost on its legs, while the latter ik going
ahead by leaps and bounds. 4’he men who have
been most active in the former would be excluded
under Victorian rules. Therefore, if the move-
ment is to boconic intercolonial, the Institute had
better admit only reporters in future, and it is the
duty of reporters to see that this is done. In time,
if some energy, sadly lacking at present, be
show'n, the Institute will consist of reporters only,
and then affiliation will serve a most useful pur-
pose and will hurry up Adelaide and Brisbane.
The V.R.A. emphatically declines to admit any
pressmen but reporters even as honorary members.
Can’t some of the old Melbourne men now
reporters in Sydney entirely remodel the institute ?
It must come in time. Ere long there will be
associations on the wholesome lines of the V.R.A.
in all the-colonies, and the offices which men only
enter when they are, hungry and which they always
leave with a curse on their lips will have to look
round. The V.R.A. yearns for Sydney, but that
Institute is up to now unworkable.—A V ictorian
Reporter.
Henry Hyde Champion, who it is asserted,
is about to visit Australia, is the son of a Major-
General in the British army. Young Champion, a
mere lad at the time, resigned his lieutenancy
because of his sense of the injustice of the British
occupation of Egypt. His father having with-
drawn his support from him on that account and
partly because he had gone over to Socialism with
R. B. P. Frost (Mrs. Gordon Baillie's last pro-
tector, who was entrapped by her during an in-
terview for the P.M. Gazette in Edinburgh) the
ex officer invested las cash with Fuulgcr in the
Modern Press, and among other publications
brought out Justice, then backed up by the. cash
and contributions of Hyndman and Carpenter.
The venture failed, however, and Champion, who
had been notorious for his recommendation ot
■armed"revolt,'convinced by the Trafalzar-square
dispersion that an undisciplined rabble had little
show with armed and drilled forces, however
small, seemed to lose heart and gradually fell out
of touch with Socialistic and Radical thought.
His wife, a refined and delicate woman, died trom
the shock while he was being tried for participa-
tion in the “Square riots,’ then followed the
arrest of his friend, Frost, for whoso defence
Champion and Mai tin an Barry found the funds.
Champion is but little over thirty years ot age, is
a good speaker, and, it is said, of late years has
become possessed of considerable sums of money.
The Sydney Morning Herald endeavours to dis-
count the distress existing in New South Wales
and show the evils of Protection by pointing out
that “of 217 men who slept one night lately in
the drill-shed at Dawes Point (13 were from Vic ?
torn, 33 from Queensland, 24 from New Zealand,
10 from South Australia, 2 from Tasmania, 9 from
America, 2 from Germany, 1 from Italy, 20 from
England, 23 from Ireland, 5 from Scotland, and
25 from New South Wales. Of the 25 who repre-
sented themselves as belonging to New South
Wales 20 were recognised by the police as habitual
park-loafers. ” “ Were from, ”we presume, means
that the individuals thus classified were born in
the spot alluded to. Thus, according to the
Herald, a man not born in New South Wales
never attains its full rights of citizenship, and no
matter what his condition the fiscal law's or social
environments of that colony can never be deemed
responsible for it. A man may have left England,
Germany, or Victoria 50 years ago to settle down
in New South Wales ; but, no matter—the country
ho originally hailed from is responsible for ail his
his miseries, and not his adopted home. T his is a
fair sample of what passes editorial muster as logic.
The Welsh are strongly opposed to capital
punishment. When a man was executed at Dol-
!r,.]|y some years ago the authorities had to import
the gallows’ timber as well as the hangman.
An Italian giant, who stood over seven feet
high and was proportionally stout, has recently died.
Before 11 pegging out ” he sold his skeleton to the Anatomi-
cal Museum, in Home, for 10,000 francs.
Ohablemont and Co., photographers to the
Governor, Royal Arcade, have moderated their
charges for photographs, with a view of meeting
every one. Cabinets now 15s. per dozen.
The Professional and Literary men of London
give their preference to Fstekbkook’b “ Relief ”
Pen. It is a swift and easy writer, and preserves
the characteristics of the hand. Samples free at
all Stationers.
FREETRADE oh PROTECTION.
Some vote Protection, some Freetrade,
As best for this young country’s weal.
But ask the youth or blushing maid,
And each will answer — Pem ell’s Meal !
As best, because it has been tried,
There’s nothing half so good beside.
His Golden Meal is what I mean,
Tis good and pure and cheap, I wean.


Clarke's
si
jk-adfllHi ffStk_l
.)
mm
i»sv
10
»■>
I \
m
I
OIW
S3Hi aOd
SUdOHgs
siHon
»BHI3MV
1*216
a33H
gg: »i3\NUVM 000,
ilfeWNtfaxd .4
. NEW PATTER?'!
Including BRAS*
“PYRAMID” Dam!
and Rgois t k a k i
Pannikin I!y this
invention any liquid
food can be pour 'd
out nr drunk, with-
out Gouni or pro ! ,
passing through the
spout, and proven!*
spilliitc when poured
into 3 Feeding Boi.tk
so unavoidable with
all other Pannikins
The-'e Pannikins
will lit ail the old
“Pyramid” Nursery
Lamps and can
be purchased
sonata tel y
tn Fireproof
Plaster
Casing
with
Single Wiekf
in Boxes
eoatamiug g Lights,
BURN
9 (lours
■ach.
r^Olf|Nori|g
& ‘‘‘HE. .
BURCLAP- 5 )
I Horror.
• PYRAMID' LIGHT
In Glass
with
Double
Wicks
in Boxes
contain mg
6 Bights,
BURN
10 Hours
each
OF
“FAIRY LIGHT,’
Mm
'-J'X
With DOUBLE Wicks,
in Boxes containing 8
Lights and Glass BUTIN
C Hours each. Burn
(3 ’Jours with Single
V icks Theses re smaller
than '•Fairy'’ Lights,
consequently less expen-
sive, and will burn in
any of tht ’‘Fairy”, or
•Fairy Pyramid” Lamp*
FAIRY PYRAMID” LIGHT
SINGLE Wick m boxes
containing g Eights and
Glass. BURN (0 Hoars
These are smaller than
“ Fairy ” Lights, conse-
quently less expensive,
and will burn in any of
the " Fairy” or “ F'airy
Pyramid” Lamps.
fteSj?” fworite
" FAIRY-PYRAMID ’ LIGHT.
w
OLD SHAPE
PANNIKIN
NEW
SHAPE
PANNIKIN
X N
SI £4-1
—AD Clarke’s Lights are warranted free from Paraffin, or other dangerous material.
FAR. FAR AND AWAY THE BEST.
gold Toy all the leading detail Houses.
Wholesale Agents for Australasia : FRANCIS FORREST & CO., 484 CollillS Street, MELBOURNE
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
Use Batho’s Baking: Powder.
Marjorie’s Fortune.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
I. don’t mind confessing it. I felt half-way
in love with Belle Viney at first sight : she was so
entirely different from all the other women I had
met. But she got engaged to another fellow and
I had to give her up. I had had considerable
experience in affairs of the heart, for I was the
possessor of seven girl cousins, each of whom, I
am hound to say, was constantly discovering some
charming friend or friends to whom “Cousin
Tom ” really must be introduced. But if Master
Tom Nugent was from time to time enslaved by
any of Cupid’s footpads, his chains were of the
lightest, and broke after a very brief spell of
captivity.
So my twenty-fifth birthday found me still
heart-whole, with no despotic She to decide for
me where 1 should spend my coming holiday. It
wanted but a week to the time, I was to have a
good solid month, but up to that moment I hadn’t
a notion where I was going to spend it. My desires
were large but my screw was small, and much as
I had been looking forward to a Melbourne'trip*
1 was obliged to confess that I must give it up,
and be content with a spell of country life nearer
home.
“I wish I knew of some jolly, quiet place,” I
said to my office-chum, Dick Egan ; “ some
house near the sea, where there are no other
hoarders, where a fellow eonld swing in a ham-
mock and read and smoke and dream the days
away to his heart’s content: some place where a
fellow could get fresh milk and eggs and lots of
fruit, and a tender chicken now and then. By
Jove, if I could hit upon a place like that I think I
could manage to put in a month easily enough ;
and it wouldn’t cost much.”
“Advertise,” quoth Dick, sagely; “all things
come to him who advertises.”
Before 1 could either question or corroborate
Dick’s airy bit of philosophy, little Billy Hawker,
our 14-year-old messenger-boy, looked up from a
parcel he was tying and said, wbh a twinkle in his
bright eyes—
“ Perhaps, sir, you’d like to come down to our
place; I think our folks would have you. We’ve
got a nice bit of farm and lots of chickens and eggs
and things.”
“Why, Hawker,” said I, “ I didn’t know you
had any folks. Where’s the place?”
“Down Penrith way, sir,” he answered ; “I’ve
often told father that you’re very kind to me, and
I think he’d like you to eome.”
“ I say, Dick, this is worth looking after.
Dashed if I don’t think it’s the very thing I
want. ”
“ Sure to be something against it,” was Dick’s
sotto voce, unfeeling reply; “ like the ads. of the
plain cooks, strict teetotallers, and the hash-
houses, with every home comfort.”
“Well, I’ll go and see for myself,” said I.
“I’ll go down this very afternoon (which was
Saturday), and you’d better come, too, Billy.”
So that afternoon at four o’clock found Billy
Hawker and me at the Penrith station, and after
a couple of miles’ walk we found ourselves at the
gate of a good-sized, well-built house with a garden
gay with flowers.
“Here we are, sir,” cried Billy, “and there’s
Marjorie—she's my sister, sir—feeding the hens.”
Looking to where he pointed as we entered the
gate I saw the prettiest girl my eyes had ever
rested on. She was holding the corner of a large
white apron in one hand, while from it she dis-
pensed the chickens’ evening meal with the other.
“ Great Scott!” thought I to myself, ‘it was
worth the trip just to get a look at yon, my
beauty.”
As we went in, the girl came forward, her eyes
dancing with delight at the sight of her brother.
Somehow we didn’t seem to need much intro-
duction.
“This is Mr. Nugent,” said Billy, “come to
see if mother’ll take him for a month's board.
“ Pleased to see yon, sir,” said Miss Hawker.
“ Billy has often told ns how kind you are to him.
We went into the house, and after 1 had seen
and talked with the old people I made up my
mind that I was in the right crib to spend my
holiday. They offered me a small, nicely-fur-
nished room facing some grand mountains, and
said I was not to think of going back to Sydney
that night.
“ You’ll be able to tell on Monday whether you
like the place or not,” said Mrs. Hawker.
“ Like the place ! ” It did not take me long to
make up my mind about that. As I settled to
sleep that night it seemed just heavenly, after the
dust and noise and stuffiness of my second floor
back in Phillip-street. And in the morning the
eggs and milk and scones and honey were just
heavenly, too.
Sunday passed all too soon, and I left next
morning for one more week’s grind at the mill
before 1 could once more turn my step to their
newly-discovered Paradise.
Of course Dick Fgan wanted to know all about
it.
“ Oh ! it’s a very pretty place,” I told him :
“ very quiet,” and I proceeded to enlighten him
on the further attractions of the place. Did I
mention the fair Marjorie ? Well, at this distance
of time I can scarcely remember such an unim-
portant detail ; but I rather fancy I didn’t.
“ Say, old man,” said Dick, suddenly, “ when
you’ve come back I've half a mind to rim down
there myself. If it’s all yon say it is it must be
just the place I should like ”
“Ah, well,” replied 1, hesitatingly, but not
without emphasis, “ I don’t think it would suit
you a bit, Dick. Why, my dear fellow, you’ll get
the bines there in two-twos ; it would be much too
dull for you ; you want some fun. / only want
a pipe and a book, and there I am !"
* # *
Saturday was a long time coining, but,
like other Saturdays it came at last, and the
evening found me installed in the cozy room at
the farm. Need I say that long before the end
of the next week, to put it mildly, I was head over
ears in love with Marjorie?
Ah ! she was a bonnie country lass if ever there
was one —frank, bright, and unaffected, and with
no faults that I could see. The only weakness, if
such it can be called, which I could discover was
a certain tendency to superstitions in little mat-
ters. If she spilt any salt she would instantly
throw a few grains over her left shoulder ; she
wouldn't for the world start away from home
on a Friday; on no account must an umbrella
or parachute be opened inside the house ;
such an act, it was her belief, would be
quickly followed by some terrible misfortune.
A magpie crossing her path would quite upset her
mentally. These and other little matters of a
like kind were as so many articles of Marjorie’s
creed. At first I used to laugh at her, and tried to
reason with her about the absurdity of the thing,
but when I saw' she didn’t like it I quickly left off
that, and humoured her in every possible way.
Yes, I fell in love with Marjorie. But there was
one bitter drop in my cup ; Marjorie did not fall
in love with me. She liked me, but I was certain
she never thought of me as a lover. I passed a
great deal of my time with her; read to her,
looked alter the flowers with her, twisted the
chickens’ necks for her, helped her in all sorts of
ways, but she gave me no sign of love. The last
day of my holiday came, and I bid good-bye
with a queer feeling in my heart, as if the sun
would never shine again till I went back there.
* * #
Weeks passed, and I heard nothing from
my kind friends till one morning Bill, who had
just come back from his holiday, came to me and
said:
“I’ve got a note for yon, sir, from Marjorie”
(oh, how my heart jumped !). “She said it was
very partic’lar, and I was to be sure to give it into
your own hands.”
I opened the note, from which a little packet of
tissue-paper fell out, and read as follows ;
Bear Mr. Nugent,- —I send yon a lock of my hair (my
heart here fairly galloped), and 1 would be so much
obliged if yon would take it to Madame R., 798 Surry-
hills, and ask her to burn it and tell me my fortune from
the ashes. She told Phoebe Raven’s in that way, and it's
come so true 1 want mine as well. Phoebe is to be married
on the Ist of May, and we want you to come to the wed-
ding. Please excuse me troubling you, but you are the
only gentleman friend 1 have in Sydney, and 1 don’t want
Madame R. to know whose hair it is. Bon’t laugh at me,
and believe me Yours truly,
Marjorie Hawker.
P,S. —Be sure and come to the wedding.
For a moment or two I really believe my impulse
was to throw the packet out of the window. It
seemed such a silly commission from a sensible
girl. But as I opened the packet and took out
the long bright tress of hair, and kissed it, and
thought of all Marjorie’s grace and charm, I re-
solved to do her bidding.
But in that moment of traitorous indecision, a
hideous and overwhelming temptation came upon
me, an seized me, and made me its prey. An
idea flashed into rny mind, which I lost no time in
putting into action on the time-honoured and
well-worn principle that all is fair in love and war.
That afterno n, when Dick Fgan came saunter-
ing b«ek from his lunch, I said
“ Dick, do you think you could write out a full,
true and particular description of your humble
servant? ”
“What the define do you mean, Tom? ”
“What I say, Mr. Richard Fgan. Do you
feel capable of writing out, nothing extenuating,
setting down nought in malice, a full, true,
and particular description of this child, Thomas
Nugent? ”
“Certainly, Tom, if yon wish it I’m on. And
I’m not to flatter you ? ”
“Not a bit; lean a little to the side of mercy,
but do it so that your conscience will never re-
proach you hereafter ; and mention no names.”
“All right, here goes. ” And at the end of ten
minutes Dick handed me this description of my-
self.
He is five and twenty ; medium height and well-made
blue eyes; bright brown hair, inclining to curl: straight l
nose: rather large but well-formed mouth, partly hidden
by moustache: mole near left eyebrow; small hands:
bright smile ; looks best when he’s in a good temper : is
fond of poetry and music, and good things to eat: quick
tempered, hut soon gets over it : hates work, but never
shirks it; kind to animals : rather shy : altogether a good
fellow.
“ Will that do?” asked Dick.
“ Well, it’s a little ”
“No it isn’t, not a bit; and I shan’t alter a
word.”
Well, I couldn’t alter it without betraying my-
self. So 1 put it into an envelope, together with
some mysterious-looking hieroglyphics (of anything
but Oriental origin;, and sealing it with a la"ge
seal, enclosed with the whole a note as follow's;
My dear Miss Hawker,—
I send you what .you ask. I hope your fortune may
prove satisfactory. I will he at the wedding if possible.
With kind remembrance to your father and mother, I am.
yours most faithfully,
Thomas Nparnt.
I went to Phoebe Raven’s wedding. When it
was over, Marjorie and I went for a stroll, in the
course of which she suddenly turned to me and
said
“Oh ! Mr. Nugent, I'm so much obliged for the
trouble you tooi about Madame R. 1 dare say
you thought me foolish, but Phoebe’s fortune came
so true : she’s married just the man she was told
she would.”
“ And is not yonr's likely to be true as w r ell ?” I
asked.
“No-o-o, because —you see—well, she described
a person as my— my—who—well—he’s been a long
time somebody else’s.”
“ How do yon know that, Marj—Miss Hawker,
may I ask ?”
“Oh ! ■ Billy told me I mean —O, Mr.
Nugent ”
Then she actually broke down and began to cry,
and in her tears (somehow 7 her head was now on
my shoulder) /die told me the happiest story I had
ever listened to.
1 clasped her in my arms; “Billy said what,
my darling?”
“He said you were engaged to a beautiful
young lady who went to England the other day,
and you’re going to marry her when she comes
back.”
“ Marjorie, that beautiful young lady is my
cousin, Belle Viney, and she has gone to England
to be married. Master Billy has been mixing
things a little.”
“ Oh ! then, Tom—Mr. Nugent—it’s all right,
and I’m so happy; she described yon exactly. ‘
A. W.
FOR LA GRIPPE (INFLUENZA)
And all colds and bronchial affections the best
remedy is Bosisto’s Original Eucalyptus Oil. In-
ferior oils are bottled to resemble Bosisto’s.
Buyers should see that they get Bosisto’s oil, with
registered “Parrot ” brand on yellow label across
the cork. Accept no other, and avoid disappoint-
ment. ✓ ■,
Ladies’ Silver Watches, .15s. Baums & Co., King-street
Arcade.
The Choicest Jewellery. Baums & Co., King-st. Arcade
Building Sites. City of Perth, W. A. Plans
Intercolonial Investment Co., Limited,! K» Bathurst*
street, Sydney.


Princess Beatrice weighs 2101bs.
I'A11! WHITE HANDS.
BRIGHT CLEAR COMPLEXION.
SORT HEALTHFUL SKIN.
PEAR
Specially
other-
TOILET & NURSERY.
Prepared for the delicate skin of Ladies and Children and
sensitive to the weather (winter or summer). Redness,
Roughness and Chapping prevented.
TESTIMONIALS :
Mrs. LANGTRY.
“I have mudi pleasure in stating that 1. have
used' your Soap fpr sonic time, and pn hrit to an,.
utlß,r/ (,s LILLIE LANdTRV.
Miss MARY ANDERSON.
“ j have used it two years with the greatest
satisfaction, for I find it the very host.
(Snnud) MARY ANDERSON.
Mrtmc. MARIE ROZE MAPLESON.
For pn-serving the complexion, keeping the
skin soft, free from redness and roughness, and
the hands in nice condition, it is the finest Soap
in the world. ' v , vHIE ROZE.
Mdme. ADELINA PATTI.
“I have found it matchless for the hand
complexion.”
(Signed) ADELINA PATTI
and
Rev. H. WARD BEECHER,
“ If eleanliness in next to godliness, soap must
be considered as a means of grave, and a clergy -
man who recommends moral tilings tsjamld be
willing to lecounnend so a]». lam told that my
commendation of Pears’ Soap lias opened for it
a large .silo in the United States. 1 am willing
to stand by every word in favour of it that f ever
uttered. A man must be fastidious indeed who
is not satisfied with it."
(Si'jaol) HKNRV WARD BEECHER.
Sir ERASMUS WILSON. F.R.S.
( Late I’rmidenf of the Hagai College of Surgeon* of
England.)
Writes in the ,)oi HNAL ok Ci i ankoi s Mkhk ink :
“ The use of a good soap is certainly calculated
to preserve the skin in health, to maintain its
complexion and tone, and prevent its falling into
wrinkles . . • PEARS is a name engraven on
the memory of the oldest inhabitant; and I eats
Transparent Soap is an article of the nicest and
most careful manufacture, and one of the most
refreshing and agreeable of balms for the skm.’
fi
ft,
rsv.
*
i
u
g
;■%
i
VZ
1
VL
'A
55Wi31
TH E PROFESSOR'S DISCOVERY:
A Tale of Old Ravenswood.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
“The transmutation of metals,' said the Pro-
fessor, as he seated himself on the end of bams
bunk, just inside the tent, “is not devoid or
achievement; to a certain extent I have, 1 con-
sider, eliminated the discovery.’' Ihe Professor
always went in for high-sounding words, but
somehow he did not always fit them into tue right
place.
It was on Pa veils wood diggings, in -N orth
( fueensland, but alas ! after its best days had tied.
We were all of us hard-up, and, at the time the
Professor appeared on the scene, Sam and 1 were
thinking of deserting it for fresh fields and pas-
tures new. The Professor—“ Professor Marcias ”
he called himself—had come up on the field with a
very modest show of legerdemain, but the held
had as much as it could do to find itself in tucker.
There was no money to pay for amusements, so
the show was a frost, and the Professor pottered
about in an abandoned claim just below ours, and
used to come up at night and give us the benefit
of his company and conversation. Ho was a
little, dark man, with a Spanish or Mexican look
about him, but he spoke stilted English without
any accent and was very reticent about his past,
“ So you think you have discovered the philoso-
pher’s stone, do you ?” said Sam.
“ Yes, I think I may claim to an abstract know-
ledge of the science "f transmutation,’ said the
Professor. , , , ,
“ Well,” I said from my bunk, 1 think you
might try your hand on some of the mullock about
here.”
“ Ah, it is too costly, it is out of my power just
now.” ... , .
“Oh, I see," said Sam, “takes five pounds to
make an ounce of gold.”
“ Is there nothing else of a cheaper sort we can
try ?” I asked.
“There is, there is the divining-rod. Now,
with that I am an adept, and on Sunday we will
give it a trial.”
“ What will it find ?” said Sam.
“Find? It will find water, quicksilver, pre-
cious stones, and gold and silver.
“ That’s pretty well for one contract. Why
didn’t you try it before ?” remarked Sam.
“What was the good?” said the Professor
eagerly; “it may indicate to me the existence of
much wealth, but I have no money to follow up
the indication —it costs much to sink a shaft.’
“ How did you learn it? ” I asked.
“ An Indian chieftain in South America taught
me, and we found large treasures together.
“ The deuce you did ! And what became of
them, pray? You don’t seem to have kept much?”
“No! I was robbed and left penniless in San
Francisco. Then I made my way over to Aus-
tralia as —cook’s mate, and came up here in hope
uf getting luck once more.”
“Well, Professor, seeing that the experiment
won’t cost anything, we don’t mind giving you a
show next Sunday.”
It was on Tuesday that we made the promise and
we had almost forgotten it, but the professor had
not, and on Sunday he presented himself at our
tent and reminded ‘us that it was the day of his
performance.
The Professor informed us that he had had
much trouble in finding a stick of the right kind
of wood, but had at last got one that he thought
would serve for minerals, but he could not pro*
mise that it would indicate water. So, m company
with some more of the boys, whom we had asked
to take the thing seriously, we went with the rro-
fessor a short distance away. Ihe little man pro-
duced his stick, a forked one, and holding it by
one of the forks in front of him, proceeded with
the utmost gravity to trot about. For some time
he had apparently no success, but at last, wnetnei
by design or not, his rod was strongly attracted
downwards, and he remained stationary. Wo
sauntered up and asked him what he had found.
The little fellow was as white as a sheet and he
seemed greatly agitated. “I do not know, he
said, “ I have such a strange feeling. It is not
gold nor silver nor water, lam frightened ; what
can it be ?” . . ~, ,
“Well so far us 1 can make out, it s an old hole
that has caved in, and filled up last wet season,
said Sam. “Try somewhere else, old boy, im
I afraid you haven’t struck gold this time.
“Yes, old guy,” said a rude, rough voice,
6 i take your d d play-acting elsewhere .
We all looked up. A dark man, with an inso-
lent laugh on his face, was standing near. Me was
a stranger to all of us, and stood looking on with a
most aggravating sneer. Marcias recovered him-
self at the voice, and walked on a little further,
but the jest had gone out of it all. Sam lookec
pretty keenly at the stranger, but said nothing,
and as by this time nearly half the scanty popula-
tion had assembled, the man turned oft with
another sneer.
“ Who is he ?” said the sergeant of police, who
was standing near me.
“ I don’t know,” I replied “not a very agreeable
sort of fellow by his looks.”
“ He’s stopping at Martin's,” said a man near
me, naming one of the two still-existing pubhc-
houses, “ I saw him there last night-says he was
here about six months ago. '
“ Hum. I wasn’t here then,” said the sergeant.
“ What are you up to with the Professor ?'
“ He’s experimenting with the divming-rod. He
says there’s something in this old hole, he can t
teil what,” I answered.
“ Marcias,” said Sam, “ come and have another
The Professor came up and walked over the old
filled-up hole, and once more was affected in cue
same manner. , , ,
“ At it again ! ” said the stranger, who had re-
turned, “ this hole’s my property. Met off it,
blast you ’’—and he gave the little man a violent
Pl “*Let him alone ! ” cried half-a-dozen voices in
such tones that the fellow drew back.
“What’s up, Professor?” said Sam ; tell us
tell,” said Marcias, who was white to
the lips, “it is not gold, nor silver, nor water.
Ah ! my God ! it is murder !” and he would have
fallen but that Sam kept him up.
“ This is a queer sort of Sunday-play, said tne
stranger; “ have you quite done !
“ What is it to yon, I should like to know,
whether we’ve done or not ? ” said the sergeant,
who was not in uniform. , .
“ A good deal,” said the other ; this was my
claim when I was here before, and I’ll trouble you
to move off it. Ain't I right, Martin? he said,
turning to the publican, who now made one ot tne
crowd. . , e
“ It was your claim when you were here bet ore,
but I don’t know the law of the thing—better ask
the sergeant.”
“So you’re the sergeant, are you ? said the
stranger : “ well, I think if you looked after your
business you’d send these pfeople home.
“ 111 look after my business, my man, and that s
such fellows as you,” said the Other, sternly.
“Hunter,” he whispered to me, take two or
three fellows and get your tools. We 11 soon see
what the hole is stuffed with. Either this fellow
is playing the fool or he’s mighty anxious that ne
shan’t do it.”
When I came back I found the stranger appeal-
ing to the crowd. “ Look here !” he said, sup*
posing a fellow left a pocket behind him against
he came back, hard-up, don’t you think he has a
right to it ? I left a little bit of good stuff there
before last wet season, and I’m sure there s nobody
here would want to take it from me. ’
“You shall have all the gold we find down
here,” said the sergeant— “meantime, for your own
sake, say no more,” he added, meaningly.
“You chatter-headed little varmin, said the
stranger, turning fiercely on Marcias, but bam
stepped in between them. Meanwhile some of us
fell to work. The stranger turned away. • Well,
I’ll leave you to such sport,’ he said; but the
loud voice of the sergeant called to him to stop.
The man turned round defiantly and then walked
on again. The sergeant blew his whistle, and the
policeman who was on duty at the barracks came
down the ridge. When I went up to get the
tools. I had brought down my revolver, and slipped,
it into the sergeant’s hands. .
“ Stop !” he called after the man again, who now
saw that he was hemmed in between the two.
“ Yon don’t leave this place until we ve got to
the bottom of the hole.” The fellow turned back
with an insolent air, but he was evidently uneasy
beneath it all.
The work went on merrily, and, as the hole mid
never been very deep, it was soon cleaned out.
“ We’re down on the rock," said one.
“It’s here,” muttered the Professor, pointing
down to his feet. . ,
“See if there’s not a drive, said the sergeant.
“Yes; here’s a filled-up drive,” returned the
man after a bit, and he fell to work on the face of
it. Soon he started up excitedly. Meres a
man’s boots !” he cried.
“ Go on as quick as you can ; you'll tmd a man
in them, I expect,” and he and his subordinate
closed in on the man who had so hopelessly given
himself away. . ,
It did not take long to unearth the remains and
bring them to the surface, they were unre-
cognisable, but the man had evidently been
murdered—the back of his head had been stove m
with a pick. , , ~ ■
The man who was arrested, contessed to tuc
crime—the murder of his mate. What uneasy
sting of conscience led him back to the spot and
caused him to make himself conspicuous, Heaven
only knows. _ . • ~ ~ r
“ Look here, Marcias,” I said to the Professor,
“ did you know anything about that body ? Gome
now, explain all that hanky-panky. ’
“ I know nothing,” said the little man vehem-
ently. “ I know this now, that that man was the
same who robbed me in San Francisco, and i
think my thirst for vengeance made me guess his
secret unwittingly, but I tell you the truth when I
say I did not act at all.” , ,
I never saw the Professor after he left, but we
raised him a small subscription and started him on
his way rejoicing.
DELCOMYN.
The Glass on the Bar.
(HENRY LAWSON IN “MUDGEE INDEPENDENT.”)
Three bushmen one morning rode up to an inn,
And called for their glasses of whisky and gm ;
They’d only returned from a trip to the Worth,
And linger to greet them the landlord came forth.
He absently poured out a glass of “ three-star,”
And set down that drink with the rest on the bar.
“ There,, Unit is for Harry,” he said, “an’ it's
’Tis the very same glass that he drank from last
His 'name’s on the glass, you can read it like
He scratched it himself with a sharp piece of Hint.
I remember his drink, it was always * three
And the landlord looked out through the door of
the bar.
He looked at the horses and counted but three.
“You were always together, wheres Harry/
cried he.
Oh, sadlv they gazed at the glass as they sam—
“ You may put it away, for our old mate is dead.
But one, gazing out o’er the ridges afar,
Said, “ We owe him a shout ; leave the glass on
the bar 1”
They thought of the far-away grave on the plain,
They thought of the comrade who earae not again ;
They lifted their glasses and sadly they said,
“ We drink to the name of the mate who is dead .
And the sunlight streamed in, and a light like a
Seemed to glow in the depth of the glass on the
bar.
And still in that shanty a tumbler is seen.
It stands by the clock, ever polished and clean,
And often the strangers will read as they pass
The name of a bushman engraved on the glass.
And tho’ on the shelf but a dozen there are,
That glass never stands with the rest on the bar.
When the guides get really hard-up for a
show-place in the N.Z. Hot Lakes district they
lug the open-mouthed tourist to a little hut.
Feeping inside he will discover a bald-headed
Scotchman toasting his pet bunion at a mud
volcano and smoking his pipe serenely. Months
ago he suffered from auricular rheumatism. All
other remedies failing, he went fur the sulphurous
mud-baths with such effect that the flies now sit
on the dog-leg-fence outside and curse him with
a regretful buzz. Having such faith in the geysei,
he erected this hut close by, and found the place
mighty convenient for household requirements,
especially in case he required hot water for either
his feet or his tea. His sulphurous tranquillity
was rudely disturbed one morning to find that his
pet volcano had shifted its position had taken a
lease of his front room, and was playing up
with unabated vigour near his bunk. An ordinary
mind would have looked on this as a distinct
notice to quit. His didn’t. He saw at a glance
the saving to be effected in labour, etc., and imine-
diatelv dug a hole to allow the geyser fair play.
To see him sitting there making his porridge or
boiling a clean rag for Sunday is the least let
gruesome, especially when the gurgling, hissing
noises are blended with suffocating sulphurous
smells, reminding one forcibly of Bheol and old
Nick.


Great Medical Reform!
Consult (FREE) HERR RASSMUSSEN, the Celebrated Danish Herbalist,
Expert Specialist in all Private Complaints, Barrenness and Nervous Diseases.
A Guaranteed Cure
for
Nervous Debility and
Lost Vitality.
22s. 6d. per Course.
Smaller Box 5s. Cd.
Only Herlsalist in. .£!t.'ULat:x*EbXla<
That has received “Gold Medal” for Great Cures Performed, and is Honourably Mentioned in the “Centennial History of New South Wales
for Great Herbal Discoveries ; and who can prove that he has CURED OVER 20,000 PATIENTS.
Sole Proprietor and Discoverer of the Celebrated
vitality Ftegdsterea,
M Inch have been the means of Curing so many Thousands of Sufferers from Nervous Debility, Lost Vitality, Errors, Weakness, Despondency,
Impure Blood. 225. (id. per Course ; Smaller Box, ss. (>d.
£3-0301.113.3,23.® "T*o£Z2"fci.22oLC323.±Sl,Zs.
To HERR RASSMUSSEN.—Dear Sir, —This is to certify that you
cured me of a very serious blood disease, after many doctors had
failed. JOHN REYNOLDS, Chappel-street, Leichhardt, Sydney.
To HERR RASSMUSSEN, the celebrated Danish Herbalist. —Dear
Benefactor, —I have much pleasure to inform the public that you
cured my wife of an internal complaint of a very serious nature, after
all the doctors had given her up, —ARCHIBALD MACFARLANE,
Eden Cottage, Barney-street, Armidale.
To HERR RASSMUSSEN, Specialist in Nervous Diseases. Dear
Sir,—l hereby thank you for the great cure you performed on me for
a very complicated nervous affection, and I shall always recommend
you to sufferers from Nervous Debility.—PHlLLlP STEAD, 54 Parra-
matta-road, Annandale, Sydney.
To HERR RASSMUSSEN, Danish Herbalist.—Dear Sir and Bene-
factor,—lt gives me great pleasure to testify to your wonderful skill
in the treatment of Disease. Y'ou cured me of a terrible complaint
after the doctors gave me up, and although it is four years since, I am
as well as ever. I shall recommend you to all.—Yours, gratefully, A.
RAMSDEN, Great Western Coffee Palace, Castlereagh-street, Sydney.
To HERR RASSMUSSEN, Specialist in Nervous Diseases.—D :ar
sir,—l hereby certify that 1 have been under your ski-ful treatment
for a very obstinate case of nervous debility, and that you cured me
with one course of your Vitality Pills'.—'D. M‘NEILL, Hornsby
Junction, N.S.W.
.53
«s=?
SJ.
C3s>i.a2.io2a.3 of the E’ress.
It is a well»kno\vn fact that HERR RASSMUSSEN, the Celebrated
Danish Herbalist, has performed many great cures during the past few
years, as his numerous testimonials will prove.—Sydney Bulletin.
HERR RASSMUSSEN. —We have been shown some excellent Testi-
monials of the great cures performed by Herr Rassmussen, the cele-
brated Danish Herbalist. — Australian Star.
HERR RASSMUSSEN has now been established. in the colonies
for 10 years. —Sunday Times, April 28, 1888.
HERR RASSMUSSEN has become a celebrity in the curing of all
diseases of the nervous system. His name has become a wonder
throughout the Southern Hemisphere. He was presented with a Gold
Medal for some of his miraculous cures.— -Balmain Leader, May 12,1888.
HERR RASSMUSSEN.—The remarkable cures which he has effected
are pretty generally known.— Balmain Observer, April 28, 1888.
We are perpetually receiving letters from H‘ HR RASS.MUSSEN’S
cured patients requesting us to make known to the public the wonder-
ful medical skill this remarkable man possesses, and he has just been
presented with a Gold Medal from several of his cured patients.
—Sydney Weekly News, May 26, 1887.
3ES©rr Rasamusaen’a 2~£®E*'fcsEsJL Eismedies. (REGISTERED.)
DENMARK ITALITV PILLS. —Guaranteed to cure Nervous Debility, Lost Vitality, Errors of Youth and Despondency. Price, 225. 6d. per full course ; small box, ss. (id.
DENMARK PEM ALB RESTORER PlLLS.—Guaranteed to cure all complaints peculiar to Females, Irregularities, and eradicates complaints which cause barrenness.
Price, 225. 6d. per course ; small box, ss. 6d.
LOCK CURE PILLS. Guaranteed to Cure all diseases of the blood, discharges, sores, and strictures. Price, 225. 6d. per course ; small box, ss. 6d.
CONSUI.TA'E'IOH AID ADVICE FSEE.
All the above remedies are made of PUKE HERBS, and are forwarded unobserved. A valuable treatise on Nervous Debility, Private Complaints, and Barrenness, sent
free, on receipt of id stamped addressed envelope. Consultation personally or by post, free. Patients are examined with the aid of the Microscope.
Address : - Herr RASSMIJSSEN tlie Danish Herbalist,
Corner G-ordon-str eet «3s 3Pa,r3x“rc»Efc«3L, ZE Sydney.
TRAMS —Take Paddington Train to Paddington Tram Waiting-room.
essWphiv
A Guaranteed Cure
for
Nervous Debility and
Lost Vitality.
22s. 6d. per Course.
Smaller Box 5s. 6d.
Baldwin ©mir a
m
EEFEieEEATOE.
Beware of the many so-called Dry Air Refrigerators advertised by unscrupulous Manufacturers and Dealers, intending
to deceive the public and trade upon our reputation. This is the original and celebrated Dry Air Refrigerator, made
famous by its successful competition at the leading Exhibitions in the United States for the past Six Years, known as
the Baldwin Dry Air Refrigerator.
WHITE MOUNTAIN FREEZERS, ICE MILK CANS, MIXERS,
.LESMOKT .Sec., .Sec.
; &&sfrs**m**W*****<&4****Q-sQ***Q*f* ’
IMIcILea-n Eros. Sz IRig'g', ZTLtd..,
512 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
.
i.-’L. O'j'
iSu
I
1 • They fit perfectly , and are
far superior to all the other
Corsets I have tried.”
(Signed) Marie Rose.
THE
PATENT
Diagonal Seam Corset
Will not Split in the Seams
nor Tear in the Fabric.
Exquisite Mode), Perfect
Comfort, Guaranteed Wear.
Beware of worthless imita-
tions. Every genuine Y& N
Corset stamped “Y&N Patent
Diagonal Seam Corset,
THREE
No. 116,” in oval.
GOLD MEDALS!
|*r Sold by all Drapers and Ladies’ Outfitters.
(l tn ) i Ti 2 mi 1 )? unless you are suffering
JJont Keaci inis from Nerv. us Debility.
If so, send for one of our celebrated ELECTRIC
BELTS. Guaranteed to generate continuous elec-
tric currents strong enough to cure almost all dis-
orders of the Nerves, Stomach, Liver, Kidneys,
etc., without causing the least discomfort to the
wearer. Do you suffer from Indigestion ? Then
send for a Box of The Gem Indigestion Pills a
guaranteed cure for Indigestion. Try The Gem
Eye Ointment —cures Sandy Blight, Granulation
of the Eyelids, Weak Eyes, etc. The Gem Vita-
lity Pills —for the cure of Private Diseases. One
or two boxes will effect a permanent cure. One
trial will prove their efficacy. The Gem Con-
queror Ointment removes Cancers, Tumors and
Carbuncles without the aid of the surgeon’s knife.
Send for price list, enclose stamp for reply.
HOWARD & CO.,
Box 873 G.P.0., Sydney.
SMOKE NOTHING BUT
PIPES.
m
I
ufy.
PIPES.
THE BE~T IN THE WOE LD.
Wholesale Agents :
JULIUS GOLDSCHMIDT & CO.,
231 Clarence Street.
First Prize-MELBOURNE' EXHIBITION.
Re a<a ! Read ! Read !
“THE BULLETIN’S ”
History of Botany Bay,
By Arlhiu* Gayll.
Profusely Illustrated by 'J'he Bulletin’s well-
known Ai’tists,
L. HOPKINS and PHIL MAY.
Frice - One Shilling
Per post, Is. 3d.
rpHE COLONIAL MUTUAL LIFE ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED.
BRANCHES THROUGHOUT THE COLONIES AND THE UNITED KINGDOM.
Policies issued under the Ordinary, Motiiied oTrx-fcigxe and Dividend Systems.
THE SYDNEY CATERING COMPANY, LTD.,
(Late Gunsler’s Cafe)
X 7 S Pitt Street, Sydney,
WISH their former Patrons and the Public Generally to know that their Saloons have been Entirely Reorganised, and shall be glad if they will give
their new ciismo n trial. ’ JAMES C MAEQUAND, Manager-


Business Announcements.
TURPIN & BRIAN,
Wholesale and Family Grocers,
623 George Street, Sydney,
ABE THE
CHEAPEST GROCERS In the CITY!
A Trial Solicited.
WHITE SUGAR, 2|d. per lb.
ROLLER FLOUR, ss. 501 b. bag.
SPERMS, sd.
MAIR’S SPICED & FRIED HERRINGS,
per tin.
Large Bottle W. SAUCE, 6d.
„ PICKLES, 6d.
COCOA, per packet.
41b. Bar SOAP, 6d.
NEW DATES, Bd. per lb.
i SARDINES, 3s. 9d. per dozen.
Box TEA, 10s. 6d., good and cheap.
51b. WHITE SUGAR and 11b. TEA, 2s.
NOTE THE ADDRESS:
623--George Street—623
Haymarket, SYDNEY.
(Opposite Square and Compass Hotel.)
-THE-
Fresh Food & |ce Qo-
LIMITED,
HARBOUR STREET,
SYDNEY,
Are evidently determined to go ahead They are
now supplying Customers who take a Quart of
Milk and Over per Day at
THREEPENCE PER QUART!
This appears very wonderful, but it is
quite true.
I W~ Weekly A.c c otmta.
A. BOWMAN’S
LONDON MADE
Porpoise Hide Boots
Are Reduced from 30s. to 21s.
249 PITT ST., SYDNEY, Near Tattersall's.
Porpoise Hide Wears Twice as Long
as any other Leather.
They are noted all oyer London,
Birmingham and Liverpool.
London Fashions,
AND
Fresh Goods Every Fortnight.
Trade Supplied Wholesale at a Great Advantage.
*ViL
ROSE’S
%
\
%
CELEBRATED
THE ONLY
RELIABLE
e %iotro^
ES/T ?/,
1858
rpHIS valuable Lotion is guaranteed to cure SWELLING
L and SANDY BLIGHT, INFLAMED EYES and LIDS,
DIMNESS OF SIGHT, &c. It will be found very bene-
ficial and cooling to those who have weak eyes, or whose
isork compels them to strain their eyes. Highly
recommended by the leading Oculists.
Manufactured only by the Proprietor,
H. A. ROSE
Dispensing and Manufacturing Chemist,
531 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
W holesale by the Proprietor and all Wholesale Houses.
Established 18C>S. By Post Ss. 6d.
” Manufacturer of Dr. SOUTHAN’S GOUT and
RHEUMATIC PILLS.
; i
ADT
m
SOLD
Business Announcements.
<r
OBERTs
'AC®
□
Net
■i'
_
*CYES
s
I'TJ
a
(_ j
I=3
rri
□
44
i
ROBERTS & CO.,
—W HOLESALE—
Ironmongers* Importers* Iron and Machinery Merchants*
HAY and ENGINE STREETS SYDNEY,
Head. Office: 85 Gracecliurcli Street, London, E.C.
IMPORTERS OF
Railway & Bridge Contractors'
Plumbers'
Squatters'
Requirements
IN
Great Variety.
{IMPORTERS OF
Engineers’ and Blacksmiths’
Conchbuilders'
Mining
AGENTS FOR:
Kortlng’s Gas Englnes—The best and cheapest yet made. Automatic self-governing, thus saving cost of gas.
Braddock’s Water and Gas Meters and Gas Lamps. Reading Iron Works Universal (Split) Pulley Wheels.
Howe’s Platform and Counter Weighing Machines and Weighbridges.
XRADEM^iii:
Guinness’ Extra Stout,
FIRST QUALITY.
Bass Pale Ale,
FIRST QUALITY.
Sole Purveyors to the
Colonial & Indian Exhibition,
London,
(By Special Appointment).
Wholesale Agents Ealchin, Johnston & Co., Sydney.
iVak for Knpper’s ElTberfeld Lager
(Specially Brewed for Australia). Absolutely Free from Sediment.
Beer
ALLAN A. MARSHALL & CO.,
Engineers, Coppersmiths, Brass and Bell Founders,
Finishers, Plumbers, Ship & General Smiths,
Gasfitters, Art & Mediaeval Metal Worker
KOI.I.CI! SKATES (any make) with BJtASS or WOOOE\ WHEELS.
Verity’s Gas Fires, Heaters and Ventilators at greatly Reduced Prices —11,000 Fires already in use
Importers and Manufacturers of Diving Gear, Yacht and Boat Work of every description in
Iron or Brass, Ships’ Single and Double Action Valve Closets, Fire Hydrants, Hose and all appliances
Bon Accord Works, 9 Macquarie Place, Sydney.
JPederatecl Squatters
—AND—
Farmers’ Co-Operative Association of Australasia, Limited,
GIECTJIjAE SYZDZtsTIE^r.
WOOL and PRODUCE BROKERS, STOCK and STATION AGENTS.
Advances Made and Deposits Received at Current Rates. Correspondence Invited.
“ The Male Generative Function in Health and Disease
—BY—
ALEXR. PATEIRSOIVT, Mi.iV., MI.D.,
F.R.C.S., Ed. ; M.R.C.S., Eng.
PRICE ... TWO SHILLINGS and SIXPENCE.
)(
OPINIONS OF THE PRESS:
“ Valuable medical work—the Doctor is a quali-
fied man and speaks with authority.”— Town and
Country Journal.
“Can recommend it as a work written by a
gentleman who has attained a very high status in
his profession.’’—Manning River Times.
“It sets forth scientific truths which, in the in-
terests ot individuals and society, should be more
generally disseminated.”— Bathurst Free Press.
“ Society would be all the better if people only
gave a little of their reading time to such valuable
medical works as Dr. Paterson has in this instance
given to them.”— Mudgee Independent.
“ The author not only fully understands the
perils which beset youth and manhood, but he can
point out the remedies.”— Cobar and Louth
Herald.
“Dr. Paterson, M.A., M.D., F.R.C.S.E., is a
high authority on the matters he deals with.” —
Ooonamble Independent.
“The work is well written, and far away the
best we have read on the subject.” Wiloannia
Times.
“The subject is treated in a manner which
shows the author thoroughly understands it.”—
Fielding Stab, N.Z.
“ The book cannot be too widely circulated, and
should be in the hands of every person, male or
female. ’’—Poverty Bay Independent, N.Z.
“Totally different from anything else of the
kind which has come under our notice.”— Bruoe
Herald, N.Z.
“ It is a work which every young man should
read and lay to heart. ” — Border Post.
157 Elizabeth Street, Hyde Park, SYDNEY.
)x(
CONSULTATION BY LETTER. JOl.
Medical.
N J
KRUPP
anic Chain
a.
ARE
NERVOUS
IF SO,
DON’T MISS THIS!
What everyone says is bound to be true, and young
and old, rich and poor, physicians who recommend, and
patients who try
The Krupp Galvanic Chain Belt,
All agree in praising that most scientific of Electro
Therapeutical Appliances. For Rheumatism it is un-
rivalled. Lumbago at once succumbs to its power. The
Nervous are strengthened and the Debilitated restored to
perfect health and vigour. In short, the appliance is an
unfailing cure for all Nervous, Sexual, or Chronic Diseases,
and is GUARANTEED to ABSOLUTELY CURE, com-
pletely and lastingly, the following complaints;
Dyspepsia, Neuralgia, Pains in the Back and Chest,
Lumbago, Catarrh, Rheumatism, Dumb Ague,
Nervous Debility, Paralysis, Kidney Complaint,
Spinal Disease, Female Weakness, Diseases of the
Liver, Impotence, Seminal Weakness, Diabetes,
Sciatica, Atrophy, Gout, Indigestion, Asthma, Piles,
Epilepsy Spermatorrhcea, Specks before the Eyes,
Excessive Heart Palpitation, Defective Memory.
Au linfailing Cure Fop Varicocele.
It is a PORTABLE BODY BATTERY, and contains
special appliances for both sexes; therefore, why waste
your money and health by procuring and taking USELESS
DRUGS? Electricity, when properly applied, is acknow-
ledged by all leading and unprejudiced physicians to be
the only safe and radical cure for Nervous and Sexual
Diseases, and the thousands of testimonials received by
the Krupp Belt Co. from leading personages throughout
Australasia prove the unquest’onable curative properties
of Electricity as applied by theappliance above referred to.
Our confidence in this appliance is so complete, that
we send the Belt out on trial, and guarantee it
to give perfect satisfaction. For full particulars as to
terms, etc., send for our large illustrated treatise, free,
in which these Belts are fully illustrated, the action of
electricity on the nervous system explained, and a lot of
useful information on nervous and sexual diseases given.
This treatise also contains facsimile of testimonials received
from some of our clients who have tried our Belts. The
originals of these testimonials produced on application.
JSF” The prices of the Krupp Galvanic Chain Belt and
Suspensory are from £l.
Sole Inventor ... Carl Krupp.
Business Manager . . A. W. Courtney.
Address all communications to the
Krupp Galvanic Chain Belt Co.,
Box 647, G.P.0., Sydney, N.S.W.
Remember—The K.G. Chain Belt cures without medicine,
is easy to wear, is sent on approval, and the first cost is
the only cost.
INDISPENSABLE pOB RADIES
AND ALL PERSONS
With a Delicate Skini
s
MOUSON
*S&!L
__
Cocoa Butter Soap is a real skin-beautifler, and a balm to
young and old alike.
MOUSON & CO., PERFUMERS & TOILET SOAP MANUFACTURERS,
PR ANK FOR T -ON -T UK - M AIN I!.
LONDON: 32 & 33 HAMSKLL-ST., E.C. PARIS; 29 RUE RAD/.IWILL
Full guarantee for perfect purity is offered by the
sole Manufacturers, Mouson & Co.
JULIUS GOLDSCHMIDT & CO.,
*3l CLARENCE-ST., SYDNEY,
SOLE A GENTS FOR AUSTR ALASI A.
PLOUGH-SHARES,
PLOUGHSHARES. PLOU.H-LHARSS.
IN EQUITY.
HORNSBY V. HUDSOM.
«
NOTICE
TO THE
Panning Community of How South h os,
HUDSON BROS., Ltd.,
Are still making the Shares which formed
the subject of this great lawsuit. Thev
are now branded
DEE
and their quality is better than ever.
m
m
HUo
Farmers desirous of encouraging Colonial
Industry can obtain these Shares from our
Local Agent.
NOTE—Trial samples free of cost.


Medical.
NERVOUS MEN
iW)
ft
!Tf
EUREKA
ELECTRIC
BELT
iv
<Nr\
/T
X
A NEVER FAILING CURE FOR ALL.
DISEASES OF THE NERVOUS SYSTEM.
Complete with Suspensory Appliances from £l. 0. 0 and
upwards. This famous Electric Magnetic Belt will cure
NERVOUS DEBILITY, Seminal Debility, Impotence,
and all weakness caused by indiscretion. Pains in the
Back, Lumbago, Giddiness, Rheumatism, Kidney and
Bladder complaints, and in fact any disease of the Nervous
System. The currents are steady and constantly felt by
the wearer. It has great improvements over all other
belts, we are willing to furnish those belts on 30 days
trial, and accept payment after they have proved them-
selves what we represent them to be. Those belts are
made for the specific purpose of producing a continuous,
mild, soothing current of electricity through all the weak-
ened parts, restoring them to health and vigorous strength,
even the worst case permanently cured in three months.
It is more convenient to wear than any other Belt.
A Book illustrated, containing full information and testi-
monials from prominent people throughout Australia,
and informing persons how they may obtain these belts
without paying for them until they have proved them com-
petent to cure any disease of the Nervous System, will be
forwarded to any address on receipt of a 2d stamp for
postage. 9
(LddressVOLTAIC BELT COMPANY
Box 916, G. P. 0., Sydney.
Dr. James D. Llewellyn,
(registered)
SPECIALIST in
6ENITO-UEINAET DISEASES,
May be CONSULTED at
—3 2 5 LONSDALE STREET—
<between Swanston ib Elizabeth Sts.J,
MELBOURNE.
W Consulting Hours—lo to 2; 7to 9. Sunday
Mornings, 10 to 11.
411 Personal Consultations are free; by letter the
Pee is £l. which is inclusive of medicines.
Barry’s
Tricopheroas
for the
HAiRftSKIN
o
ADVT
An elegant dressing ex-
quisitely perfumed, re-
moves all impurities from
the scalp, prevents bald-
aess and gray hair, and causes the hair to grow
Thick, Soft and Beautifol. Infallible for curing
eruptions, diseases of the skin, glands and muscles,
and quickly healiugcuts, burns, bruises, sprains, &c.
Caution.— None genuine without the trade-mark of
Barclay & Co., New York, affixed to each bottle.
ADVT
Barryls
Pearl
CREAH
i forth©
Complexion
Impart* to the darkest skin a clear, natural white,
tinged
with the faintest rose blush. Speedily removes
Wrinkles, Freckles, Sunburn and Tan, and mantles
the faded cheek with youthful bloom and beauty.
CAUTION.— None genuine without the trade mark
Of Barclay & Co., New Yoik, affixed to each bottle
A BLESSING IN EVERY FAMILY.
HOLLOWAY’S PILLS AND OINTMENT.
There is not a country in the civilised world where
the healing virtues of thes n> grand medicines have not been
recognised by thousands of sufferers. In all the ordinary
ailments of humanity their beneficent action is at once
recognised. Fullest: directions are supplied for their use
in every disease. IF YOU SUFFER, TRY THEM. Manu-
factured only at 76 New Oxford-st., London. Pur-
chasers should look to the Label on the Boxes and Pots
If the address is not 523 Oxford-street, London, they are
spurious.
LOONG SHAN TEA HOUSE
NOW OPEN.
Quong Tart & Co.’e
EXTENSIVE NEW PREMISES
(Nearly opposite Theatre Royal).
FIRST-CLASS GRILLS;
Q
V
o
N
G
T
A
K
T
ft
C
O
M
P
A
N
Y
As well as all kinds of Refreshments, may
K e obtained from 7.30 a.m. to 11.30 p.m.
CUP OF DELICIOUS TEA.
ICED DRINKS OF ALL KINDS, &o.
The rooms are splendidly furnished and
fitted up. In addition to the large and
well - appointed Refreshment Rooms,
gentlemen will find on the Second Floor
Commodious and Comfortable Smoking
and Conversation Rooms, furnished with
Chess, Draughts, &c., &c.
TO THE LADIES,
On the First Floor will be found Nice
Private Room for Ladies, convenient for
Writing, Reading, &0., also Retiring
Rooms and Lavatory, with both hot and
cold water laid on. Inspection Invited.
Q
U
o
N
G
T
A
R
T
&
C
O
M
P
A
N
Y
Finest Teas imported—Packets |lb. and
upwards supplied. Orders promptly at-
tended to.
137 KING STREET. SYDNEY.
Medical.
r IVONDERFUL MEDICINE.
Beecham’s Pills
patent
PILLS.
Are universally admitted
to be worth a Guinea
a Box for bilious
and nervous disorders,
such as wind and pain in
the stomach, sick head-
ache, giddiness, fulness
and swelling after meals,
dizziness, and drowsiness,
cold chills, flushings of
heat, loss of appetite,
shortness of breath, cos-
tiveness, scurvy, blotches
on the skin, disturbed
sleep, frightful dreams,
and all nervous and trem-
bling sensations, &c. The
first dose will give relief
. . . in twenty minutes,
sufferer lg ear negtly invited to try one box of
fills, and they will be acknowledged to be
Worth a Guinea a Box.
For females of all ages these Pills. are invaluable,
as a few doses of them carry off all humors, and
bring about all that is required. No female should
be without them. There is no medicine to be found
equal to BEECHAM’S PILLS for removing an
obstruction or irregularity of the system. If taken a
cording to the directions given with each bbx they w
soon restore females of all ages to sound and robus
health. This has been proved by thousands who hav
tried them, and found the benefits which are ensured b 1
their use
or a weak stomach, impaired digestion and all disorde
of the liver, they act like “ MAGIC,” and a few doses wi
be found to work wonders upon the most importan
01 ’8 urls in the human machine. They strengthen th
whole muscular system, restore the long-lost complexior
bring back the keen edge of appetite, and arouse into at
tion with the ROSEBUD of health the whole physics
energy of the human frame. These are “FACTS” tes'ifle
continually by members of all classes of society ; an
one of the best guarantees to the nervous and debilitate
is, Beecham’s Pills have the largest sale of any paten
medicine in the world.
Magic Cough Pills
As a remedy for Coughs in general, Asthma, Bronchia
Affections, Hoarseness, Shortness of Breath, Tightnes
and Oppression of the Chest, Wheezing, &c., these Pil
stand unrivalled. They are the best ever offered to th
public and v. ill speedily remove that sense of oppressio
and difficulty of breathing which nightly deprive th
patient of rest. Let any person give Beech am’s Coug
Pills a trial and the most violent Cough will in
short time be removed.
Prepared only and sold wholesale and retail by the pro
prietor, Thomas Beeoham, Chemist, St. Helens, Lancashire
England, in boxes at Is. IJd. and 2s. 9d. each. —Sold b
all Druggists and Patent Medicine Dealers everywhere.
N.B.—Full directions are given with each box.
CONSULT PROFESSOR SELBY
376 Cleveland Street, Surry Hills, Sydney,
Personally or by letter on Chronic Complaint
of the Nervous System, Diseases of the Urinar
Organs and all Impurities of the Blood. A Positiv
Cure in all cases amendable to treatment. Sul
ferers should read the Professor’s valuable treatise
sent post free to all who send their address. I
contains Advice on Marriage, worth its weigh
in gold.
E PPS’S
GRATEFUL—COMFORTING
COCO A.
Dr. westcott’s amenorrhcea
PILLS for Ladies, when taken for a few
days before, quickly correct all irregularitie
from whatever cause arising ; 2s. 9d. and 4s. 6d.
by post 3s. and ss. W. H. SOUL and CO., 19C
Pitt-street, Sydney, Agents.
Musical.
INGHAM’S
PATENT SCALE INSTRUCTOR
FOR THE—
IE 3 ! JAIDiTO ZETOIR TIER
PUPILS can obtain the above at once, and the bes
way to illustrate its usefulness to them is to sup
pose a man to live to be a hundred years old and neve
to have seen a Piano, he would, with five minutes
instruction, be able to play the most difficult Major and
Minor Scales on the instrument.
Miscellaneous.
WA. LEWIS, old-established Private Detective
■ for the discovery of Missing Friends, tracing
Absconders, watching Suspected Persons, and prosecuting
all kinds of Private and Confidential Enquiries ; obtaining
Evidence in Divorce, Libel, Fraud, Bigamy, Breach o
Promise ; extracts from or Copies of Wills, or Certificates
of Births, Marriages or Deaths obtained in any part of the
world. Bankrupt Schedules Piled, £l, by a legal gentle-
man duly admitted and practising in ail the courts o
N.S.W., who may be consulted at my office on all lega
work. Consultation Free. Rents and Debts Collected,
Distress Warrants issued, steady and trustworthy Bailiff-
employed, and all moneys received are promptly accounted
for. W. A. LEWIS cautions the public against so-called
old-established private detective agencies, as he is con-
nected with no agents in Sydney, An intelligent, well-
trained staff of Male and Female Assistants retained,
capable, when necessary, of assuming any character in
life—from a newspaper boy to a clergyman, or from a
servant girl to a lady. Terms Moderate. Consultation
Free. Address—
Phosnix Chambers, 158 Pm Street, SYDNEY.
[Telephone 723.
WALTER HOPE,
General Merchant & Commission Agent,
199 SUSSEX STREET, SYDNEY.
C CONSIGNMENTS of all Produce, Live Stock, etc.,
) received and realised in the best markets. Account
Sales and Proceeds remitted the day after sale. Orders
executed for all Goods from Sydney at Lowest Wholesale
Prices
Speciality.— Pure-bred and Pedigree Stock of all de-
scriptions Bought or Sold on Commission. All communi-
cations referring to Pure-bred Poultry and Eggs for Setting
to be addressed as usual to WALTER HOPE, Bonnyrigg
Prize Poultry Farm, Liverpool, N.S.W.
SPECIAL NOTICE.—The Sydney Bulletin.
Tasmanian Edition Publishers, FITZ-
GERALD BROS. Subscription (payable strictly
in advance). Six Shillings and Sixpence per quar-
ter, or One Pound per annum.
The Bulletin will be bn Sale every Friday at
the Office, George Street, Launceston, or from the
Runners in the street.
Business Announcements
The bank of new Zealand.
Sydney Branches :
64 IITT STREET, and <538 GEORGE STREET.
Paid-up Capital ... ... £1,125,000
The Bank has Agents in all the principal cities
throughout the United States of America and
Canada, and can offer special facilities for dealing
in Bullion, Rills of Exchange, Commercial and
Travellers’ Letters of Credit.
Drafts issued and Bills collected on most favour-
able terms, at rates which can be ascertained on
application.
N. F. GIBLIN, Manager.
U JfJ JJ ¥ T 1 “FT ———
BOOT UI’J’UH MANUFACTURER
IMPORTER OP
ENGLISH AND FOREIGN LEATHER,
Elastic Web,. Grindery, «Sc.,
Wholesale and Retail Leather Merchant
559 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
T
m
V
>
SC
sft
<2
<s
fA
fc
sc
p
<s
EVERY
ESCRIPTION
HAIR WORK DONE
PRIVATE
ROOMS
FOR LADIES
22*24
ROYAL ARCAOI
MELBOURNE
J. SITTERLIN,
FROM PARIS,
I adies’ Hairdresser. Wigmaker, & Perfumer,
25 SYDNEY ARCADE, SYDNEY.
HISTORICAL AND FANCY HAIRDRESSING A
SPECIALTY.
Manufacturer of All Kinds of Theatrical
and Street Wigs.
Aniiuonlated Quinine,
The most efficient Hair Lotion, to prevent prema-
ture baldness.
Sitterlin's Vegetable Hair-dye,
The only Hair-dye in the colonies to restore Light
Hair to its natural colour. All shades.
Success Guaranteed.
MRU sons,
MANUFACTURING HATTERS
GEORGE STREET
,SYDN EY
IMPORTERS OF ALL THE
NEWESTSHAPES.
And at ALBERT STREET, BRISBANE.
m
(
THE BEST
IN THE WORLD
w
m,
; t omi
fIUCH
INC
y
PO
’M
yFACTUREo By
JjtfMCS OfJMfAfOUr S/arlotrrS* 4
\iSclcL Cy alt &tffCA't*} SSereAem/iero '
Business Announcements.
■JiHE THREE GREAT LIGHTS!
The Needles Patent Gas-making Machine;
The Harvey Patent Safety Kerosene Lamp;
And the New Era Portable Gas Lamp.
The Harvey Lamp has' been adopted by the
Railway Commissioners for lighting the Sydney
trains. We were awarded the Highest Order of
Merit and Special Mention by experts at the
late Melbourne Exhibition for onr lighting
mediums. Over 6000 Harvey Lamps are in use
m this colony, and for all lighting purposes are
giving universal satisfaction. These Lamps can
be seen on one of the North Shore ferry-boats,
and are suitable for all classes of vessels. The
Inventor offers £2OO to anyone producing as good
a Kerosene Burner.
Patentees for Australasia:
H, T. Smith & Co., 491 Kent St. South, Sydney;
14 Arcade, Adelaide, S.A.; Argent Street, Broken Hill;
Parkside Iron Works, Melbourne.
The Cheapest and Best Horsefeed
IN NEW SOUTH WALES.
CHAMPION OATEN CHAFF!
PRIME OATEN CHAFF!
LUCERNE CHAFF!
MIXED CHAFF!
Our own Cutting. Fresh every day.
13?" Buy from us and save money. TEJi
City Produce Company,
STEAM CHAFF-CUTTERS.
HAY STREET, HAYMARKET.
Sydney Canister Works,
COLLINS STREET, SURRY HILLS,
OFF GROWN STREET.
Manufacturers of allkmds of Tins for Confectioners*
Tea Merchants, Biscuit Makers, &c., also all kinds
of Tins, round and square, for Pepper, Spice and
Baking Powder, made by improved machinery.
A. Trial Solicited.
Hotels.
PPAHLERT’S HOTEL,
SYDNEY, N R.W.,
Opposite the Park, TVynyard Square.
(Under New Management.)
fPHIS for 25 years well-known First-olass Central Hotel,
recently thoroughly renovated throughout, has every
comfort and attention of a home. The Cuisine Department
is under competent French supervision. Dining Room
open for Non-Residents. Open-air Recreation Garden.
A well-ventilated Billiard Room adjoining Recreation
Ground (three Aloock’s best Tables), under the manage-
ment of A. Buckingham, late of Empire Hotel. Wines
and Spirits of the very best quality only, and the Finest
and Coolest Bar in Town
HOT AND COLD BATHS.
BT NIGHT PORTER. French
German
Telephone No. 150. Italian
|- Spoken.
SPECIAL -iU ITES FOR FA MI LI ES.
CHAS. HECHT ... Manager.
Mr* and Mrs* Thomas Asche
Beg to inform their Friends and Patrons that,
in addition to other kecent improvements at the
BOYAL HOTEL,
a first-class HYDRAULIC ELEVATOR has
been erected for the convenience of Visitors,
rendering it the most complete and comfortable
house in Sydney; and with the personal and un-
ceasing attention of Mr. and Mrs. Asche in every
detail of management, they rely on the continued
patronage of their many old friends, whose kindly
recommendation of the RO YAL HOTEL to their
friends will be esteemed.
THE GEOEGE HOTEL
(opposite Railway Station , near Baths),
St. Kilda, Victoria.
First-class Family & Commercial Hotel.
7 For particulars, apply to
E l . WIMr*OLE,
PROPRIETOR.
K
ATOOMBA family hotel.
JOSEPH NIM MO.
First-class AccommoduHun /or Tourists and Families
Wires and Letters to be addressed “ Proprietor.”
Arrangements can be made to provide transit for person*
wishing to view the celebrated Jcuolau Caves and
other places of interest.
R
Y A h HOTEL,
Esplanade,
ST. KILDA, VICTORIA,
Facing Beach, close to Pier and Baths. Ten
minutes from Station.
H. MOONEY .... Proprietor.
LIVERY LETTING STABLES ATTACHED.
Telephone 082.
First-class Accommodation for Visitors
GOLD E N S H A N T Y.
Price One Shilling.


OIXSOPSONS
Customs Returns.
American Leaf.
Dizson and Sons consumed in 1888, 52,592 lbs.
more, and in 1889 (over 44 tons) 98,939 lbs. more
American Leaf than all the rest of New South
Wales put together.
DIXSON’S TOBACCOS having the largest
sale of any in Australia are—
6UA
*
*
o
o
37
☆
V
SIR ROGER
Dr. RIDGE’S
FOOD
FOR INFANTS m INVALIDS
Has an enormous sale in England
and is now’ being introduced into the
Colonies.
Every Storekeeper should get a supply
as every Wise mother will certainly
use it.
PR, RIDGE’S ROYAL FOOD MILLS
LONDON, ENGLAND.
XADIES'
- ||lpHiLoß£^*S
/irrtn* */£
BOSTON
BROWN’S
SATIN
POLISH
—FOB-
LADIES’ AND CHILDREN'S
BOOTS AND SHOES.
Awarded highest honors at
Phila., 1876 Melbourne, 1880
Berlin, 1877“ Frankfort, 1881
Baris, 1878 Amsterd’m 1883
New Orleans, 1884-85, and wherever
exhibited.
Paris medal on every bottle.
Beware of Imitations.
This Blacking is in liquid form and is applied to shoes
or other articles of leather by means of a sponge, attached
to the cork by a wire, so that the blacking can be used by
anyone without soiling the fingers. No polishing brush
is required. It dries immediately after being applied, and
will not soil the most delicate clothing.
Sold largely in Australia through Commission Merchants
and Dealers.
B. F. BROWN & CO.,
Boston, U.S.A., M’f’gs.
THE BALLARAT COFFEE PALACE,
Ltdiard Street, Ballarat.
YISITORS to th® Golden City will find every
convenience at the above Establishment.
The Only Coffee Palace in Ballarat.
MODERATE CHARGES.
REID & SONS Proprietors.
ATKINSON'S
ENGLISH PERFUMERY
surpasses all others for its natural
fragrance.
Atkinson’s Celebrated
EAU DE COLOGNE
Is Unequalled for its Strength and
Delightful Fragrance. It far sur-
passes the numerous compounds sold
under the same name.
Of all Dealers and of the Manufacturers-
J. & E. ATKINSON,
24, OLD BOND STREET, LONDON.
. Trade Mark—“ White Rose” on “Golden
Lyre,” with Address in full.
THOMAS IVI ‘C REERYs
MEDICAL HERBALIST,
33 Oxford Street, 4 doors above Siley Street.
Private Diseases of Both Sexes a Speciality.
Consultations Gratis. Charges very Moderate.
A Trial Solicited.
A SPEEDY CURE GUARANTEED.
WILLXA.MS’
AUSTRALIAN YEAST POWDER
IS THE ONLY PERFECT SUBSTITUTE FOR YEAST.
: V
Bread, Tea Cakes, Pastry, &c.,
ABE
Light, Wholesome and Digestible
WHEN MADE WITH
Williams’ Australian Yeast Powder.
FOR THE TOWN, THE BUSH, AND THE SEA.
of Worthless Imitations. Sold in Tins at 6d. the Half-Pound
CLARENDON HOTEL, MANLY,
The Brighton of New South Wales.
Am rr, A "RENDON HOTEL, Banquets, Suppers, Private Dinners, Evening Parties, etc., are
ontheShortest Notice in the Large Dining Hall. Besides having a most recherche
vou can enjoy from the balconies the magnificent view of the sea and surrounding country,
> y Lqvp p-ood company good wines—in fact, everything’ that can possibly n ake ono
JTWtfi* a/d Picnic Parties provided. Table
'ThUc rtOnTo SoS” Mr and Suidays. No expense is spared by Mrs. K ilminster to make her
Visitors comfortable and her Hotel the best in the colony.
Mr g, KILMINTSTER, Clarendon Hotel ’ TT „
Opposite OCEAN BEACH, MANLY.
q goertz,
Stock and Share Broker,
FIITAITCIAL -A. a-DBZtsTT,
BRISBANE.
Member of the Brisbane Stock Exchange.
68 Hunter Street, and 8 Bligh Street,
SYDNEY.
IF 1 . SHIROIBIDIBIR/
LIVERY, BAIT, LET-OUT AND COMMIS-
SION STABLES.
Horses and Vehicles of every description for
Sale or Hire; also, good reliable Ladies or Gentle-
men’s Hacks.
Wolseley Sheep-Shearing* Machine.
T"IASTORALISTS are notified that, to avoid
£ no time should be lost in Booking- Orders for next Season
Agents: J- H. GED D E S & CO.,
19 PHILLIP STREET, SYDNEY.
I|AFFK\
V ©
m:
□
\i/
•/. >;
©
%
yms
ftC
9 to H \
Offices
Vi/
i C?
Mj LDU RA.
Melbourne
RENM ARK,
ADELAI DE .
England.
Victoria.
Chaffey Irrigation Offices, Swanstca Street.
SnurH Australia,.
Cavendish Chambers. Grenfell Street.
J, E. Mathew Vincent,! Chid Commissioner)
Cornwall Buildings, 35 Queen Victonia St.
Q UONDONE. C-
PRINCE“of" AY ALE S’ HOTEL,
St. Klltia, Victoria.
Witiin Five Minutes from STATION, and One Minute from ESPLANADE and BATHS.
MRS. KONG MEMO Proprietress.
LEA & PERRINS'
*
Purchasers should see that the Label on every bottle of the original
WORCESTERSHIRE SAUCE
bears the Signature, thus :
Os
Ask for Lea & Perrins’ Sauce, and see Name on Wrapper, Label, Pottle and Stopper.
Wholesale and for Export by the Proprietors, Worcester; Crosse $ Blackwell, London, s«.,&•}
and by Grocers and Oilmen throughout the World.
Everyone should Read
- HISTORY of BOTANY BAY,"
akthur gayll.
Profusely Illustrated by “ The Bulletin’s” well-known Artists, L. Hopkins and Phil May.
ONE SHILLING; per Post, Is. 3d
Price
May be had from Agents, or direct from “ The Bulletin Office.
t V • n . A Beniamin 321 Little Collins Street ETast, Melbourne ; Tasmanian : Fitzgerald Brothers, George Street,
Aobnts-Y ictonan. A. Queensknd . j. H . Thompson, George Street, Brisbane.
