

ROBERTS’ HOTEL,
IvCstxUset Street, S“2T!DIjTID"Sr-
TJNEIYALLED ACCOMMODATION.
BALDWIN DRY AIR REFRIGERATOR.
Beware of the many so-called Dry Air Refrigerators advertised by unscrupulous Manufacturers and Dealers, intending
to deceive the public and trade upon our reputation. This is the original and celebrated Dry Air Refrigerator, made
famous by its successful competition at the leading Exhibitions in the United States for the past Six Years, known as
the Baldwin Dry Air Refrigerator,
WHITE MOUNTAIN FREEZERS, ICE MILK CANS* MIXERS,
JbJI IVT 3XT StJTJ"-b* JEa2S JbiUS, &0., &o.
ZL£cXj©sun. Bros. Sz
512 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
ALLAN A. MARSHALL & CO.,
Engineers, Coppersmiths, Brass and Bell Founders,
Finishers, Plumbers, Ship & General Smiths,
Gasfitters, Art & Mbdi.evad Metal Worker
ROLLER SKATES (any make) with RRASS or WOODEN WHEELS.
Verity’s Gas Fires, Heaters and Ventilators at greatly Reduced Prices—ll,ooo Fires already in use.
Importers and Manufacturers of Diving Gear, Yacht and Boat Work of every description in
Iron or Brass, Ships’ Single and Double Action Valve Closets, Fire Hydrants, Hose and all appliances.
Bon Accord Works, 9 Macquarie Place, Sydney.
Federated Squatters
-AND—
Farmers’ Co-Operative Association of Australasia, Limited,
CIBGULAR SYDNEY.
I O' ~
WOOL and PRODUCE BROKERS, STOCK and STATION AGENTS,
Advances Made and Deposits Received at Current Rates. Correspondence Invited.
r flIE COLONIAL MUTUAL LIFE ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED.
BRANCHES THROUGHOUT THE COLONIES AND THE UNITED KINGDOM.
Policies issued under the Ordinary, Moclifieti Tontine and Mortuary Divitiend Systems.
J. & C. HOWARD.
Howawi’f M'nww Higgins
Howard’s Single-Furrow Digging
Plough.—(O.L.)
The of tlxe Times!
PLOUGHING AND HARROWING IN ONE ACT.
Share Points only cost GcL, and are I&eversible.
Chaff-Cutters, Horse Gears and every kind of Agricultural Implements
iut stock;.
IST” Enquirers please quote this paper.
-80 i PITT STREET, SYDNEY
(Corner of Pitt and Bathurst Streets).
ck
mm
*w
m
v
'M
—THE—
LONDON & SYDNEY
TEA
COMPANY.
*’4O9—KENT STREET-409
I <Two doors from Market Street),
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
HIG- ZEI-O LASS'
—IMPORT—
-1 Isr ID' I A
&
CHINA
TEAS
Packed in 201 b. and 401 b. Packages, and delivered at Is. <sd„ ls.9d. and 2s per lb.
(Carriage Free) to any Railway Station or Port in; New .South Wales.
3 *
A Single Package at Wholesale Price. Correspondence invited and promptly attended to.
The Bulletin
Vol. 11—No. 525.]
[Saturday, March 8, 1890


TOBACCO
d
ď
£
a
so
'it.
-
o
Po&\
SIR ROCERI
4:.
a
-
n.
DIXSONS
Dr. RIDGE’S
FOOD
FOE INFANTS AND INVALIDS
Has an enormous sale in England
and is now being introduced into the
Colonies.
Every Storekeeper should get a supply
as every Wise mother will certainly
use it.
DR. RIDGE’S ROYAL FOOD MILLS,
LONDON, ENGLAND.
l|S.ujg
SATIN
Mi
fife*
11 ?
c Hildb ttjM
TPUNMStfcCSC
/jrrhtA^fu
BOSTON
BROWN’S
SATIN
POLISH
—FOR—
LADIES' AND CHILDREN’S
BOOTS AND SHOES.
Awarded highest honors at
Phila., 1870 Melbourne, 1880
Berlin, 1877 Frankfort, 1881
Paris, 1878 Anisterd’m 1883
New Orleans, 1884-85, and wherever
exhibited.
Paris medal on every bottle.
Beware of Imitations.
This Blacking is in liquid form and is applied to shoes
or other articles of leather by means of a sponge, attached
to the cork by a wire, so that the blacking can be used by
anyone without soiling the fingers. No polishing brush
is required. It dries immediately after being applied, and
will not soil the most delicate clothing.
Sold largely in Australia through Commission Merchants
and Dealers.
B. F. BROWN & CO.,
Boston, U.S.A., M’f’gs.
THE BALLAEAT COFFEE PALACE,
Lydiard Street, Ballarat.
VISITORS to the Golden City will find every
convenience at the above Establishment.
The Only Coffee Palace in Ballarat,
REID & SONS Proprietors.
ATKINSON’S
ENGLISH PERFUMERY
surpasses all others tor its natural
fragrance.
Atkikson’s Celebhated
EAU DE COLOGNE
Is Unequalled for its Strength and
Delightful Fragrance. It far sur-
passes the numerous compounds sold
under the same name.
Of all Dealers and of the Manufacturer t—
J. & E. ATKINSON,
24, OLD BOND STREET, LONDON.
> Mark—“White Rose" on “Golden
Lyre,’’ with Address In full.
T. LAWLESS, Junr.,
37 MARKET STREET,
SYDNEY,
Fruit M ercliant.
WILLIAMS’
AUSTRALIAN YEAST POWDER
IS THE ONLY PERFECT SUBSTITUTE FOR YEAST.
: y
Bread, Tosl OsJ&ios, Pastry, &c.,
AKK
Light, Wholesome and Digestible
WHEN MADE WITH
Williams’ Australian Yeast Powder.
FOR THE TOWN, THE BUSH, AND THE SEA.
Beware of Worthless Imitations. Sold in Tins at 6d. the Half-Pound
CLARENDON HOTEL, MANLY,'
The Brighton of New South Wales.
AT the CLARENDON HOTEL, Banquets, Suppers, Private Dinners, Evening Parties, etc., are
served on the Shortest Notice in the Large Dining Hall. Besides having a most recherche
Dinner, you can enjoy from the balconies the magnificent view of the sea and surrounding country ;
here also you can have good company, good wines—in fact, everything that can possibly make one
comfortable can be found at this really first-class hotel. Fishing and Picnic Parties provided. Table
de H6te at One o’clock daily and Sundays. No expense is spared by Mrs. Kxlminstkk to make her
visitors comfortable and her Hotel the best in the colony.
Mrs. KILMI3STSTBR, ClarendLon Hotel,
Opposite OCEAN BEACH, MANLY.
RICHMOND FAMILY HOTEL*
PORTLAND, VICTORIA.
John Shelton - Proprietor.
68 Hunter Street, and 8 Bligh Street.
SYDNEY.
IF. SHEOEDEE
LIVERY, BAIT, LET-OUT AND COMMIS-
SION STABLES.
Horses and Vehicles of every description for
Sale or Hire; also, good reliable Ladies or Gentle-
men’s Hacks.
WILLIAM CARGILL,
Photographic Stock Importer,
2 6 MARKET STREET, SYDNEY.
đ
t
Offices
Mj LDUPA_
Melbourne_
Renmark
A D E-LA I DE _
England^
.Victor/a.
Chaffey Irrigation Offices, Swanstcn Street.
South Australia,.
Cavendish Chambers, Grenfell Street'.
J. E. Mathew Vincent, (Chief Commissioner)
Cornwall Buildings, 35 Queen Victoria Sr,
UPNOOfM EC-
TroEiJel 4 C?
P HINGE OF WALES’ H O T E L,
Bt. BZilda, Victoria.
Within Five Minutes from STATION, and One Minute from ESPLANADE and BATHS.
MRS. KONG MENG ... ... ... Proprietress.
LEA & PERRINS'
■ *
sauce
Purchasers should see that the Label on erery bottle of the original
WORCESTERSHIRE SAUCE
bears the Signature, thus
Ask for Lea & Perrins’ Sauce, and see Name on Wrapper, Label, Bottle and Stopper.
Wholesale and for Export by the Proprietors, Worcester; Crosse Blackwell, London, sc. J
and by Grocers and Oilmen throujhout the World.
Tire
—Everyone should Read—
SUIjIjETIM’S
“HISTORY of BOTANY BAY,"
By ARTHUR GAYLL.
Profusely Illustrated by “ The Bulletin’s” well-known Artists, L. Hopkins and Phil May.
Price
Agents— Victorian: A.
ONE SHILLING; per Post, Is. 3d.
May bo had from Agents, or direct from “ The Bulletin ” Office.
Benjamin, 321 Little Collins
Launceston; Queensland
Street East, Melbourne ; Tasmanian : Fitzgerald Brothers, G
: J. 11. Thompson, George Street, Brisbane.
eorge Street,


Business I" nnonncements.
BEAX.E & COMPANY’S
OUR NEW SHOWROOMS AND HEAD OFFICES,
482 and 484 George Street,
“Oh, I feel so Mondayish !” exclaims the housemother
at her breakfast table on the Monday morning. Although
the above absurd adjective is not to be found in the dic-
tionary, yet every woman well knows its meaning when
she looks forward to the teeming, steaming, boiling, toil-
ing, temper-trying, hateful washing day. The house is
thrown out of joint, other weekly duties are, as far as
possible, set aside, the children kept out of the way, a cold
dinner for the family, and a warm reception for anyone
who intrudes to waste time and to prolong the agony. _
Happy, indeed, is the home where “washing day ” is a
thing of the past. Every busy, hard-pressed mother
knows the wretchedness and gloom which the present
washing day brings down upon the household. In the
early morning all is prepared for the all important washer-
woman, timed to arrive for an early breakfast, and then
to attack the week or fortnight’s batch of soiled linen.
The good-natured husband readily excuses a hastily-pre-
pared breakfast, for he hopes it may- betoken the speedy
ending of the dreadful day. The Children are packed off
to school, and then begins in earnest the strife between
the housewife, anxious to get everything finished in good
time, and the professional laundress, equally anxious to
make the work last over two days. With the greatest
impartiality the laundress divides her attention between
the discussion of light refreshments and the very latest
gossip, the intervals of time being filled up with a gentle
application to her special functions
Very many of our valued customers to whom we have
supplied labor-saving appliances in the past, do their own
washing. In every family, in our climate, frequent
changes of underclothing are necessary. Then there are
the house linen, the cotton dresses, white coats, and
outer garments ; and all this is heaped up for the poor
house-mother to cleanse, perhaps with the assistance of a
daughter, if there is one old enough. It is not that the
husband, who also works hard, is unkind. Expenses are
many, economy is imperative, days of depression and of
trouble must be provided against. So the washing is to
be done, and the wife must do it; and after the imperfect
rest of a sultry night, as she gets ready the breakfast upon
a hot Monday morning, she feels for a while that her lot
is cheerless, that the apportionment of toil is beyond her
share and beyond her strength ; that somehow a change
should be made. No wonder that fair young girls, after a
few years of married life, become worn-looking, and teat
they age faster than they ought. The husband is willing
enough to cherish the good wife’s comeliness, and to make
her lot easy, hut how ? She do.s not complain, only siys
she feels always “ tired ”
Now, as purveyors of household implements, we have
long seen our opportunity to enlarge our business by
introducing a thorough!}' efficient Was.ling and Mangling
Machi .e. Both these services must be combined in the
one article. This we have most perfectly and assured y
accomplished. The demon of the washing day is not
scotched but killed.
We resolved to introduce nothing until absolute.}* certain
by observation, experiment, and test, that the implement
would be a success. There are hosts of Washing Machines.
The vast majority are childish fads, are injurious, or a e
useless. We say and we prove that the Beale Patent
Washer will save in labour of washing in proportion as our
Sewing Machines do in sewing. And in a higher degree,
for the washing by hands is so much the more laborious.
Tne Beale Patent Washer may be described as follows :
The vertical tub is very carefully made, with fluted sides.
It is stationary, only the water and the clothes being
agitated by an accurately shaped “ dolly,” which is worked
by a fly-wheel. The clothes are simply dropped in, no
arrangement or packing being wanted. The special
reversing gear moves this dolly swiftly backwards and for-
wards, and a very small expenditure of strength suffices
to lash the water into a mass of foaming suds. In the
process the clothes are floated to and fro, up and down ;
currents and cross-currents of water are formed, which
meet, and are forced through and through the fabric,
carrying away every particle of dirt ands;aim The linen,
being merely suspended in the wat r, is not rubbed and
scrubbed as in hand-washing. Neither has anything to
submit to the hand-wringing process, which insensibly
rips, tears, and wears the clothes. Thus the most delicate
fabrics cannot be torn by our system of washing. Every-
one has noticed that their clothes seem to be as much
worn by washing as by use. Tnis is caused by the fierce
rubbing they get upon washing boards, or by the hands.
With the Beale Patent Washing Machines this friction is
done away with. Therefore, the clothes will last far longer
than by hand-washing, however careful. When the wash-
ing is done, the tub should be wiped out, so that it be
always sweet and clean. There is no false bottom, mid
nothing to accumulate greasy sediments.
ITew ~Wareliouae.
SYDNEY.
A RADICAL REFORM.
When you buy a Machine of any kind,
have a good one.
Beale & Company
482 & 484 George Street,
SYDNEY.
We have erected new Show-rooms, Offices, and
Warehouses, at No. 482 and 484, George-street,
Sydney, opposite Central Markets, and near to
the Royal Arcade. These are the loftiest com-
mercial buildings in the city, and can be seen from
all parts of the city and adjacent suburbs. The
Showrooms are the largest and finest in the
Southern Hemisphere, for the due display of the
splendid Hapsburg Pianos, Haydn Organs, and
Beale Patent Sewing Machines.
All goods may be had upon easy time-payment,
or for cash less three shillings in the pound.
Photographs, price-lists, and samples free by
post.
No matter wnere you live, we will supply you
with a Piano, Organ, Harmonium, Sewing Machine
or Washing Machine, upon easy time-payment.
Branches and Travellers throughout New South
Wales and Queensland.
Business Announcements.
WILLIAM
FLEMING.
MERCHANT and IMPORTER,
22 & 24 Clarence Street
(Corner Margaret St.),
SYDNEY.
2, St. James Buildings
(WILLIAM STREET),
MELBOURNE.
LIGHT, RIGID,
EAST RIDITG,
AND
DURABLE.
V¥
wr
h
m
m
rtss^vj;
0
i
High-Glass Buggies, Phaetons,
Waggons and Harness.
d
EASY HENNING,
STEONG,
AND STAND MQRESM'
WEAE and TEAE
THAN ANT
WAGGON MADE.
Nec TAF(
ď
■lllllllllll
Win mini
C
Mllllffi
•unililllii
Esnimimi
2:
C
3
09
đ
:v
68
CLARENCE S*
SYDNEY.
in New South Wales
y
/V
TRIUMPH
of The Qoo_p 3 PJJRJJ over Rad.
YOU SHOULD USE
LARMER’S
celebrated
HEALTH-GIVING
AND
INVIGORATING TONIC.
It is used and endorsed by all Physicians
ecause it is the best.
It is superior to all other .Tonics.
For the Liver, Kiclneys and slood it has
no equal.
It is wonderful as a Flesh Producer.
It is the best remedy for Wasting Diseases,
Sick Headaches, Bilious Complaints, Fever,
and Ague, IS euralgia, &e.
Price, 2s 6d and ss; By post, Is extra.
PREPARED ONLY BY
CAINS & CO., Chemists,
'7B KING STREET.
For Sale by all Chemists
m. vr *■'’*
CARLSBAD
NATURAL MINERAL WATERS
are now Imported in bottles and used In treat-
ment of CHRONIC GASTRIC CATARRH, F7PER-
CEMIA of the LIYER, GALL STONES, CHRONIC
CONSTIPATION, DIABETES, RENAL CALCULI,
GOUT, and diseases of the spleen arising' from
residence in the tropics or malarious districts.
THE NATURAL
CARLSBAD SPRUOEL- SALT
In small and frequent doses is an efficient
DIU RETIC,but as an APE RIENT it should be taken
BEFORE BREAKFAST, in doses of from 1 to 2 tea-
spoenfuls, dissolved in water. To increase the
APERIENT action of the Carlsbad Mineral Water,
& teaspoonful of the Salt, previously dissolved
In water should be added.
SOLE CONSIGNEES for the U.K. and the Colonies
INGRAM & ROYLE, S 2, Farringdon St., London,
And of all Chemists throughout the World.
The Natural Mineral Waters of
(STATE
d
SPRINGS.)
GRANDE-GRILLE .—For Affections of the
Liver, Biliary Organs, &c.
CELESTINS. —For the Kidneys, Gravel, Gout
Rheumatism, Diabetes, &c.
HOPITAL. — For Stomach Complaints.
HAUTERIYE.— An excellent Table Water.
OF ALL CHEMISTS IN AUSTRALASIA.
Business Announcements.
MASON BROTHERS,
ď
LIMITED.
253 to 269 KENT STREET,
SYDNEY,
Have always in Stock for Sale to the
J rade and Wholesale Buyers Only,
Ironmongery, ami
GENERAL HARDWARE
Glass, China and
EARTHENWARE.
WINES . BEERS & SPIRITS,
AND GENERAL
BULK MERCHANDISE.
Agents for
JOHN WALKER and SONS
Old Highland Whisky.
J. SORIN and CO.’S
Cognac.
J. T. GAYEN’S,
Schnapps and Geneva.
A. MELVIN and SONS’
Edinburgh Pale Ale.
HBKTRY KIKT&,
PHOTO-SCENIC ARTIST,
316 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Is constantly adding fresh subjects to his Im-
mense Stock of Australian and New Zealand
Views, comprising every variety of subject taken
from Nature unadorned and Art glorified.
Marine Views and Landscapes,
Mountains and Caves,
Crack Yachts and Cathedrals,
Old Identities and Young Australians,
Everyday Sights and Stirring Incidents,
Stereo, and Lantern Slides,
High-class Portraiture.
Catalogues on Application.
310 George St., between Hunter and King Sts-
Medical.
3 3IFL. SFEER’S
AMERICAN DISPENSARY
3 1 Yor 3s Street.
P.O. Box 920.
Dr. Speer is a regular Graduated Physician, educated at
Harvard College, U.S. (for confirmation see New Zealand
Gazette, January 21st, 1886; also New South Wales
Gazette, April 17th, 1888). The doctor has devoted 14
years to the study of CHRONIC, NERVOUS, AND
SPECIAL DISEASES. Four of these were in the leading
hospitals of the United States, which enables him to treat
all complaints with excellent results. All applying to
him will receive his honest opinion of their complaints.
No experimenting ;no Mercury used. He will guarantee
a positive cure in every case he undertakes, or forfeit
£2OO. His reason for doing so is this—when there is no
organic disease, and nothing but an inorganic trouble, or,
in other words, a conglomeration of symptoms producing
a certain result, there is no reason why it cannot be re-
moved with the proper remedies, therefore he guarantees.
He wishes it distinctly understood that he does not claim
to perform impossibilities, or to have miraculous power
he claims only to be a skilled and successful physician
thoroughly informed in his speciality—CHßONlC and
SPECIAL DISEASES OF MEN and WOMEN. People
residing at a distance can, by explaining their troubles in
detail be treated at home. The course of treatment will
not in any way interfere with their business. Examina-
tion and advice free to all. Charges moderate. H. J.
Spekr, M D., 31 York-street, Sydney. Post Office Box,
No. 920. Office hours, 10 a.m. o 12 a.m. 2to 4 and 7
to 8 p.m. Sundays from 10 to 11 a.m. only.
Sfei
If
0/ cru
TO YOTTNG HMEEKT.
DR. FLETCHER’S
TREATISE ON NERVOUS DISEASES, THEIR CAUSE,
SYMPTOMS, TREATMENT, AND CURE.
r PIIE directions contained in this little treatise will be
found of immense benefit to the sufferer ; and if these
directions are observed during the early stages of Nervous
or Sexual Debility, No Medicines mil he required , as, by
observing the directions given, the patient can Cure Him-
self.
This admirable little treatise is specially written to
show a method of counteracting the evil effects of indis-
cretions in early life—overwork, irregularity hi eating or
drinking, &c. It i s the result of much study and long
and successful experience in the treatment of diseases,
and contains a fund of useful information to ever}' suf-
ferer from the following complaints, viz.:—Nervous
Debility, Dizziness, Specks before the Eyes, Pains in the
Back, Defective Memory, Loss of Will Power, Loss of
Energy, Spermatorrhoea, Bashfulness, Discontentedness,
Constipation, Liver and Kidney Derangements. Atrophy,
Impotence, Impure Blood, Foul Taste in Mouth, Palpita-
tion of Heart, Wakefulness, Despondency, Excessive Ner-
vousness, Inability to Marry, Premature Decay, and other
symptoms experienced by nervous sufferers.
All Should Send for this Little Treatise.
If the complaint is of long standing and requires
medicine, Dr. Flet#er will GUARANTEE TO CURE
ANY CASE OF NERVOUS or SEXUAL DEBILITY
with ONE COURSE OF MEDICINES LASTING FIVE
WEEKS, and will send with medicines A WRITTEN
GUARANTEE to cure same or return the monies paid.
Dr. Fletcher’s treatment is both simple and effective,
and within the reach of the poorest. It is unlike any
other, and with it he has cured over 25,000 patients, and
invites patients to investigate his statements by verifying
the testimonials published in his treatise. The treatise
will be forwarded on receipt of two stamps to cover
postage.
CONSULTATION BY LETTER, FREE.
Address in first instance—
DR. h. EWART FLETCHER,
Box 1417, G.P.O.
Sydney, N.S.W.
Private address—Clonmel House, Waverley, Sydney.
_ Remember, all cases undertaken, guaranteed, and a
signed agreement given, which provides that NO COST
be incurred by the patient if a cure is not effected.
VARICOCELE RADICALLY CURED WITHOUT
OPERATION.
Mention this Paper.
m~ IN THE PRESS,
“-A. CS-OXjJDEHNT shauty/
By “BULLETIN” WRITERS.


-y?T*n iae TE»ta.'k>lislxe>dl Sliortly*
SHANTY
Australian Tales and Sketches in Prose and Verse
;By ‘BulletinL’ Writers. ”
A Selection from
tile brigh
test of the original literary luatfer winch has ma.ae The Bulletin world-famous. ls.: if posted, 31.
extra.
Public Companies.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA, i
THE COMING COLONY!
Everyone should Invest a Few Pounds in Land
in
PERTH,
The CAPITAL CITY OF WESTERN AUSTRALIA.
Compared with other Australian Cities the Pkice
is Very Low.
The Coal, Gold and Tin Mines are attracting
much enterprise and capital to the Colony.
CITY BUILDING”ALLOTMENTS,
From ill per Foot.
BUILDING SITES adjoining the CITY
From £lO Finch.
Small Deposit. Ea-y Terms. Discount for Cash.
Each Lot guaranteed good Building Land.
Land in Perth will increase greatly in value during
the next few years.
INQUIRY COSTS NOTHING.
Pamphlets, Marked Plans and full information
posted to any address on application to
'(he Intercolonial Investment So,, Limits I
96 Bathurst Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
W, J. DOUGLAS, Manager.
=CLYDE=
Mil, CEUSHI and CBUmil
WORKS,
CLYDE, near GRANVILLE,
Sew South Wales.
Lead, auci Silver Ores.
ALSO,
Gold Concentrates,
Purchased in any quantity.
Miners and others are invited to send Small or
Large Parcels of Ore to the above Works, which,
on being assayed, Cash Returns will be at once
remitted.
Tariff of Charges forwarded on application to
the Secretary at the Works, Clyde.
The British and Mew South Wales Investment
and Financial Co., Limited.
Incorporated under the Companies’ Act, 1874.
Capital, £250,000.
Sydney Office : 246 PITT STREET.
T)ILLS DISCOUNTED and Immediate Advances granted
-D Daily. Country communications promptly attended
to. The following Rates of Interest are allowed for Fixed
Deposits:—
5 Years .... .... 10-per cent.
12 Months .... .... 9 per cent.
6 Months .... .... 8 per cent.
3 Months .... .... 7 per cent.
With a Guaranteed Bonus on Renewals of Twelve Months
and over.
By order of the Board.
W. M‘DONALD, Manager.
gDWIN G. GOERTZ,
Stock and Share Broker,
ZETHEsT-A-lfT CIAL
BRISBANE.
Member of the Brisbane Stock Exchange.
SMOKE
NOTHING
BUT
is
PIPES.
PIPES.
THE BEST IN THE WORLD.
o
Wholesale Agents :
JULIUS GOLDSCHMIDT Sc CO.,
231 Clarence Street.
First Prize —MELBOURNE EXHIBITION*
Business Anneuncementr,
ANDREW KING & CO.,
Wholesale Soft Goods Importers and Warehousemen,
FLINDERS STREET, MELBOURNE,
Opposite H lion’s Bay Railway Station.
HTHIS old-established house was opened to the Public last Monday as the “MODERN
* FAMILY WAREHOUSE,” when the rooms were rushed and the doors had to be
closed.
The Press and the Public have pronounced the Opening Day the Greatest Success
ever achieved in Victoria.
The Goods required no pushing, so Customers were not annoyed by salesmen.
Plain Figures and Good Value at once convinced Purchasers of the advantages to
be gained by buying from a Wholesale House ; and now ANDREW KING & CO. take
position of
Premier Drapers in Victoria.
Parcels delivered at Railway Station on opposite side of street, so that you can do
your shopping in shorter time and with more satisfaction by calling at the MODE
FAMILY WAREHOUSE ” as you come into town than by going elsewhere.
Note. —The present Stock is being Sold very much under Wholesale Cost, and
Householders should not neglect this rare opportunity of replenishing their stocks.
Lengths and Quantities to suit all. ISTo Second Prices.
Terms Strictly Casla.
gJT Country Orders promptly attended to, and Squatters’ Parcels made and sent by return.
Note Address:,
“The Modern Family Warehouse,
OPPOSITE HOBSON’S BAY STATION.
highly nutritive
MAY BE OBTAINED IN LABELLED TINS OH FAOKETS THKOUGHGDT THE COLONY.
—THE—
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL
FIRE
Insurance Society.
Established
1872,
Bonuses
OF
20 per cent. Paid Annually
since 1873.
m
Head Office
—THE
Oldest Mutual Fire Office
in Australia.
Claims promptly and liberally
settled. Fifteen days’ grace
allowed for Renewal of Policies.
Lowest Current Rates charged.
Hon. George Thornton, M.L.C.,
Chairman.
Head Office:
Corner Pitt Si King Streets,
SYDNEY.
Walter Church ... Manager.
Medical.
WORLD-
FAMED GALVANIC BELTS
EOU THE CUBE OK
Nervous Exhaustion and Debility, Sciatica,
Lumbago, Rheumatism, &c.,
AVE received Testimonials from Three
Physicians to Her Ma esty the ' Rieen and
the Leading Physi ians of many London Hospi-
tals, including over Forty Members of the Royal
College of Physicians of London.
For full Price-list and particulars, see new pam-
phlet “Galvanism; Nature’s Chief Restorer of
Impaired Vital Energy.” Pamphlets Free.
Sole Agents for N.S.W.,
FROST <sc SHIPHAM
ELECTRICIANS,
474 & 587 George Street, Sydney.
Sole Agents for Victoria:
ALLISON BROS., 477 Collins-strbbt West, Melbourne.
■QR. SMITH, XT.S.A..,
MEDICAL EXPERT
In PRIVATE COMPLAINTS of BOTH SEXES.
A Prompt and Safe Cure Guaranteed.
CONSULTING ROOMS:
Nos. 7 & 8 First Floor, 482 G-EORGE STREET,
SYDNEY.
Hours ;
From 11 a.m. till 4 p.m.
Business Announcements.
i:llas
Ujtfßß
KE-SOVEREO.
wTUDY ECONOMY
atid
Have your Umbrella Frames
Re-Covered, and your
Parasols Re-Lined and made
Filial to New, at
J. SULLIVAN’S,
541 George Street,
Brickfield Hill, Sydney,
bet treen
Liverpool <6 Bathurst Sts ,
Parasols made to match Cos-
tumes. Repairs neatly done.
PAPER-HANGINGS,
oiis,C6lours * Paints
WALL PAPERS Frov &roll
PA I
1529 George St*« BathurstSt.
Brickfield Hill. —-
Thomas Hoss,
TOBACCO &. CIGAR IMPORTER,
27 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY,
(Corner of Pitt Street.)
A large stock of Genuine llavau nail Cigars, of the
choicest Brands to select from.
Sole Importer of the Celebrated •• I'ior <le Bonita
Brand of Cigars and ••Empire Cigarettes.”
Companies.
City Mutual Fire Insurance Company
•MITED).
Established 1877.
Capital ... ... £500,000.
Head Office:
25 CASTLEREAGH STREET. SYDNEY.
A Cash Bonus of 10 per cent, is paid to Policyholders
on renewals every year. Insurances covering Loss by Fire,
Lightning or Gas Explosion at Lowest Rates.
The DIVIDEND of 8 PER CENT, to 31st December,
1889, is now being paid, and the BONUS ot 10 PER
CENT, to Policyholders will, as usual, be paid on re-
newal of the r policies.
Mosey to Lend on Approved Security.
N.B.—The Bonus paid is equal to that paid by any
Fire Company in Sydney.
ROBERT KERR, Manager.
Sydney Canister Works,
COLLINS STREET, SURRY HILLS,
OFF CROWN STREET.
Manufacturers of all kinds of Tins for Confectioners*
Tea Merchants, Biscuit Makers, &c., also all kinds
of Tins, round and square, for Pepper, Spice and
Baking Powder, made by improved machinery.
A Trial Solicited..
CITY & COUNTY
Investment, Land, and Building
Company, Limited.
Authorised Capital, £lOO,OOO ... Reserves and Uncalled Capital, £37,000.
Rates for Deposits ; 12 months, 7 per cent.; 6 months, 6J per cent.; at call, 5 per cent.
Bonus to 12 months’ Depositors.
Directors: J. Garrard, M.P., Hon. J. H. Young, M.P., J. P. Walker, J.P., John C. Hamilton.
J. D. Ward, Manager, 827 Pitt-street, Sydney.
r
327 IP IT T STREET SYDNEY.


The Bulletin
Jl~jv 0 SIS.
SATU KD AY. 3IAKCII », MiUO.
Price, 6d.
fafmm
V I /
V '
J -
&URN
’f/jllUfilLL'tCc^
mefTSTyus]
Cofhiys
d
THE RIVALS.
UNDERTAKER (to moribund Mining-Boomer): “HERE YOU ARE, THE GOOD OLD WAY!”
CREMATIONIST: “TRY OUR NEW PROCESS FOR DISPOSING OF BODIES AFTER DEATH.”
HIS SATANIC MAJESTY (in the distance) : “HELL GET THERE JUST THE SAME!”


The Bulletin
lliB National Australian ITewapapcr.
“ Australia for the Australians.
Proprietors : CULLEII .J NEV\ S. AI’ER CO.,
Limited.
I ÜBLIIIIED OXCE A WKF 11,
at 21 Pitt street, Sydney, New south U ales.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(payable in advance, only).
n no
Per Annum - L
n iv ft
Half-yearly
Quarterly 0 6
Cheques, Drafts, etc. end all Dusiness Communications
to be addressed to William Maclbod, Managing Director.
Literary Communications to be addressed to J. F.
Archibald.
The Editor will carefully read and acknowledge in tM
••Correspondence’’ column all contributions submitted—
whether in the form of Political, Social, or other Articles,
Verse, Short Tales nr Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in
length, or say 3000 words, arc specially acceptable),
Paragraphs, Letters, or Neiespapcr-Clippings Adi
communications will be regarded as strictly conjidcnhial.
“The Bulletin" will return all unavailable MS* when
the address is and stamps are enclosed. Put we
desire those sending MSS w distinctly understand that
we are not responsible for the preservation or transmission
of such MSS.
NOTICE.
Py sending direct foTire Bii-lktin OJiee Twenty Shillings
sterling—which you may pay by Post Office Order One
Pound Note, or Stamps of any Australian colony—you
can have The Bulletin' posted regularly to you every week
for a year.
This offer is not open to residents of Sydney. In that
city The Bulletin is not delivered by mail, but is entirely
in the hands of our carriers, tbH-h whom we do not wish
to interfere.
TTi^^Btdlelzoi.
SATURDAY. MARCH 8, 1800.
“A Prince of the Blood.”
Sovereigns suffer a grievous evil. They
kn >w nothing respecting the actual relation
in which they stand to the people over
whom they reign. Even when they do not
of their own motion—as is almost invariably
the case—surround themselves with para-
sites, these vermin spontaneously environ
them. But, in all modern monarchies,
custom, and indeed necessity, have operated
to x’ender the Sovereign inaccessible to the
people in general. He has become, by the
operation of inevitable exigencies, situated
like the Deity in the system of the
spiritualists. He is the centre of concentric
spheres, and only approachable by successive
accesses of certain qualifications. There is,
however, this immense difference : In the
spiritualistic conception, beings are ranged
in spheres nearer to, or more remote from,
the Great Centre, in proportion to the
greater or lesser development of their moral
qualities : In the monarchical system, beings
are placed nearer or more remote in propor-
tion to their possession of one of two
qualities, both of which are entirely dis-
sociated from that which governs the ad-
vancement of souls in the spiritualistic
scheme. The first of these is sycophancy ;
the second is hereditary rank. The former
is adequate without the latter, the latter is
insufficient without the former. A noble
who should habitually or even occasionally
fail in that unwritten article of - etiquette
which requires persons admitted to direct
communication with the Sovereign to
“ prophesy good things,” would speedily
find his approach barred by someone whose
conversation was of a more gratifying
character. The ordinary entourage of a
monarch is, consequently, composed of per-
sons who minister to that mind diseased—
that abnormal belief in his own supreme
adequacy—which serves monarchs for in-
telligence and knowledge.
* * *
In the present political and social condition
of the so-called civilised world, this miser-
able disability of sovereigns is unavoidable.
The institution has outlived its usefulness.
It lingers only as an excrescence in the body-
politic of nations. It is a ghost : the sub-
stantial thing has been dead for generations.
It is a fiction—as all earth-haunting ghosts
are—and pleas for its realities are necessarily
as fictitious and visionary as itself. The
doom of monarchy is sealed, just as was
that of Captain Cook. So long as the simple
multitude at Owhyhee believed him to be of
divine nature his life was safe. The moment
accident disclosed that he was but human, he
fell mortally wounded. So Jong as the vulgar
credited the dogma that sovereigns ruled by
the grace of God, monarchy was safe. As
soou as it was perceived that kings were
creatures of common clay and devoid of
special inspiration from r' > re, the fate of
their order was sealed. Bin, it may be dis-
sented, monarchies exist. In civilised com-
munities they are yet the rule. This does
not affect the question, in reality. Lassalle
remarks, with respect to the tirst French
Revolution ; “ The revolution had already
entered into the vitals of the community,
into their actual relations, long before it
broke out in France, audit was only requisite
to bring the change thus wrought into actual
recognition. . . . This is the case with
all revolutions. A revolution can never be
made. . . . To set about to make a
revolution is the folly of immature minds
which have no notion of the laws of history.
And it is, for this reason, equally foolish and
childish to attempt to repress a revolution
which has once developed itself in the womb
of a community. ... If the revolution
has already found its way into the com-
munity, into its actual relations, then there
is no help for it; it must come out and take
its place in the constitution of ihe com-
munity.” - - -
# # *
The foregoing train of reflections has been
occasioned, by the intimation received by
cable that there is some inchoate idea—already
approved of by The Argus in a leading
article—in the event of the federation of the
colonies becoming an accomplished fact—of
despatching a member of the Royal Family
of Great Britain to occupy the position of
tirst Governor-General. The hint that such
a step is contemplated has created some
commotion in the minds of various persons
—journalists and others. We confess it now
occasions ns no excitement whatever. In
the first place, the possibility of such an
appointment was too obvious to have es-
caped our contemplation. In the second
place, we are unable to see that the matter is
of material importance. In the third place,
we conceive that nothing which any person,
or any number of persons could do would
affect the issue. If, indeed, the colonies he
ripe for federation—which we doubt —they
are certainly not ripe for separation. The
appointment of a Royal Prince to the highest
position in the federation would, to our
thinking, neither hasten nor retard the in-
dependence of the colonies, which event we
regard as we do the obliteration of monarchy
■ —a revolution which has already entered
into the actual relations of these communi-
ties and only awaits the natural and inevit-
able current of events to develope into
external recognition. There is very little
reason to dount that the Sovereign, basking
in the pleasant delusion that monarchy is a
living institution, in the very noon of its
existence, with a vitality nourished and sus-
tained by the enthusiasm of a myriad of
devoted adherent subjects, has conceived
that Australians, if they feel in any par-
ticular less implicit affection than English-
men, qualify their adoration for the throne
only because they suffer the grievance of
having too remote access to its footstool. It
doubtless seems to the regal mind that the
one thing needful to intensify the loyalty of
the inhabitants of these remote “possessions
of the Crown ” is to lend them a Prince of
the Blood to adore on the spot. Should the
folly of despatching an unlucky young man
of the purple-veined variety actually be per-
petrated—supposing federation, the con-
dition precedent to be achieved—the imme-
diately succeeding superficial appearances
will doubtless tend to convince Royalty a
little more, if that be possible, of its exceed-
ing sagacity and of the unqualified admiration
for everything connected with monarchy
which prevails even at the ends of the world.
There would be such pageants in connection
with the reception of His Royal Highness as
Australia never before achieved. There
would be a lavishness of civic decoration
transcending all antipodean precedent.
There would be such multitudes of cheering
people in the streets, such an array of soldier
citizens, such unanimity of fervour and en-
thusiasm as would exceed the wildest
extravagance of any previous demonstration
in Australia.
* * *
And the political philosopher, emergingfrom
the crowd, with his democratic wide-awake
slouched over his forehead, would mutter the
words of Galileo: “It moves nevertheless.”
He would, like Galileo, be correct. The
operations of natural causes would continue
unaffected by any ephemeral absurdity.
Charles James Fox, a century ago, de-
scribed Great Britain as “ a disguised Re-
public.” The Australian colonies have too
long been Republics, almost undisguised, for
monarchy in any of its phases to rehabilitate
itself among these communities. Twice
already princes of the blood royal have been
sent among us, as missionaries to the poor
benighted Australians upon whose lives the
actual sun of Royalty had never shone.
T 1 ;ese awful individuals were duly received
with hat-tossing and enthusiasm. For them
did many throats make the welkin to ring.
Premiers pretended not to find them a bore,
and Mayors grovelled according to the
nature of such sub-dignitaries. But
familiarity had quite its ordinary effect.
Before the Princes sailed Australians had tired
of them. They were icgarded as monotonous
in a very brief time. And when the effer-
vescence of alleged loyalty which had fizzed
up on their appearance had subsided, and
people’s reason had flattened down to its
average level, it is the lamentable fact that
the Royal personages began to be regarded
as rather ridiculous. The feat of memory is
requisite to recall the condition of popular
sentiment with regard to Prince Alkhed
before he quitted Australia. The lunatic
attempt against his life by O’Farrell alone
prevented his departure being accompanied by
a shower of derision. As for the two younger
scions of the Royal house who have recently
visited the colonies, the spectacle of our most
considerable politicians and venerable judges
dancing attendance upon “ a couple of kids ”
made an impression upon the population very
different from what had been reckoned for.
Unused to such unnatural reversal of the
obvious proprieties of life, the settlers of
Australia felt resentment at the humiliation
of their grey-headed senators instead of re-
garding with awe the distinctly spurious
divinities—-in the guise of a couple of very
average middies—to whom these degrading
genuflexions -were being made.
* # *
In Great Britain royal personages are seen
only, as through a "lass, darkly. The vulgar
are never permitted to view majesty stripped
of its externals. Thackeray never wrote
anything, even in his “ Three .Georges,”
which gave such deep umbrage as those three
sketches he drew of Louis XIV. of France
—Le Grand Monarch, Sketch 1., a splendid
wig, a cane, and embroidered and padded
coat ; Sketch 11., a decrepit, wizened, little
old man ; Sketch 111., same old man, with
the haberdashery and wig on ; his nose very
much in the air—every inch a king, except
wdiat was wig and padding. In Great Britain,
we say, the people are never permitted to see
the little old man of monarchy without the
wig and padding. In Australia, the com-
munity being less numerous, it is impossible
to keep the royal person out of sight even
when in deshabille, mental and physical.
The machinery and appliances do not exist
here. They cannot be created in an hour.
Probably some attempt will be made to con-
struct them. To keep the common people
from getting too close an investigation of the
regal article, a court will be instituted, and a
nobility manufactured. Either horn of the
dilemma must be pernicious to monarchy.
If there be no court and no buffers of nobi-
lity, the Prince will have to stand close
scrutiny. This will necessarily lead to the
ascertainment of the fact that he is simply a
man. In the case of a scion of the House of
Hanover he will be a hisus naturce , should he
not be a very inferior sort of a man. Being a
Prince “of the Blood” renders that result a
logical necessity. If he be “of the blood,”
that signifies that it is the blood of the three
Georges, poor things. All three were fools.
The third one was a fool whenever he was in
his senses, but was often a lunatic. All the
children of all three were fools of assorted
intensity. If there be anything in heredity,
to be of their blood is to inherit their
qualities, whatever they were. If there be
nothing in heredity, what is there in being a
Prince of the Blood ? The dilemma, we
regret, is pernicious to monarchy either way.
The subjection of a princely Governor-
General, therefore, to the close examination
of the democracy of Australia would never
do. A court and a nobility of some kind
would be imperatively necessary, hut the
introduction of such machinery would do as
much damage to monarchical sentiment as the
other plan of letting the people hear the
Prince talk and see him look silly when he
felt that way.
* * *
Force of custom and the indurated senti-
ment of ages render an aristocracy tolerable
and even respectable by a community. But
a new nobility has invariably proved a
failure. Cromwell himself could not get
people to pay any reverence to his House of
Lords. Napoleon made very superior fire-
new Dukes out of successful Generals—a
class of men always impressive. But his
civil creations were unconsidered. Even
when new peers are grafted on an old
nobility, the first creation, who ordinarily
have been remarkable for something—if it
were only for a genius for crawling—seldom
are held in the same social regard as the third
or fourth, who generally are remarkable for
nothing except being able to sup their soup
without making a gurgling noise with their
mouths, or some equally important social
graces. Macaulay even sneered at the
second Baron Carington on account of the
recency of his family title. But a brand-new
creation of colonial persons of title, probably
not exactly peers, but a sort of imitation,
available, like certain cheap editions of
books, within the Australian Colonies only,
would not help the monarchical system
very greatly. To make the most useful sup-
porters in Australia of the Prince and the
Imperial connection British peers would
probably be a condescension the mere thought
of which would make the Queen as ill as the
idea of yielding the Americans their inde-
pendence made his sacred majesty, her
grandfather. But even if that were not so,
it would not work, for the new noblemen
would unquestionably never rest easy till
they escaped to London to take their seats
among their peers. To ereate only Baronets,
and Knights, and Companions of Michael
and George would not work well anyway
it was tried. Every baronet would be
vexed that he wasn’t made a lord, and
in the long run the most influential of the
distinguished ones would be apt to hold their
cheap, second-class honours at their just
value, and break out into Australian
nationalism as Sir Charles Lilley has done.
Besides, if precedent selections are any
criterion, the most awful blunders would be
made in the choice of persons to be titled.
Fancy a throne propped up by a galaxy of
John Davieses and Charley Robertses and
Buudbtt Smiths! No; on considering all
the circumstances, we do not consider that
the introduction of a member of the Royal
family will particularly affect the prospects of
Australian nationalism. Send along vour
Prince !
The Philosophy of Protection.
The adage that history repeats itself is worn Ihm,
but the exposition of the fact that tke repetition
springs from inevitable parallel causes and their
inevitable parallel effects must always be new and
profitable. Beyond a doubt the Eastern Pacific
slope of Australia, and especially the northern
half of it (taking Sydney as the centre) is called
upon to play on a smaller scale, and it is to bo
hoped, with very considerable modifications, the
drama which was played a quarter of a century
ago on the lower eastern sea-board of North
America between the States of the South and the
North. What was an inevitable process of social
and industrial evolution with them will be the
same with us, and the sooner this is recognised the
better for all concerned.
* * #
After all, every community has, ahd must have,
the World's present social' conditions,
ft dominant commercial class which corresponds
to what is the dominant commercial genius of
that community. The dominant class will be either
“aristocratic ’ and land-owning or democratic and
manufacturing. It will give itself Up to the pro-
duction of raw material cr to the manufacture of
raw material. It might be thought that a balance
of these two classes would be possible. Such ft
balance is manifestly most desirable. But history
seems to tell Us that in commerce, as in domestio
life, there cannot be two masters in the house.
England, of whose fiscal “orthodoxy” somueh
nonsense is talked, is a striking example of this,
though marked with some apparent contradictions.
During the sixteenth century the transformation
of the country into huge gramng-tracts for sheep,
owing to the profit accruing to the growers of
wool who supplied the 'demands of the continental
weavers (compare our squatters here in Australia),
brought on what would now be called a Freetrade
Crisis. The agriculturalists and mechanics were
ruined, the small farms broken up, the labourers
and workmen sent to the towns and highways as
beggars or thieves, or both. Hence the significant
fact that the first English Poor Law, the admission
of the failure of repression, dates from the reign of
Elizabeth, In another century the re-action had
set in, and by the time this re-action had run its
course we find the policy of the land-owners com-
pletely changed. It paid them far better, they
thought, to receive the farmers’ rents than to
attempt to gmsc 'on a large scale for the now
doubtful foreign wool-market, and therefore they
were for Protection. But the distinguishing com-
mercial genius of the nation was changing, too.
Machinery and coal came to make England the
workshop of the world. Thus we find the Freetrade
agitation springing, oddly as it seems now, from
the manufacturers —men like Cobdkn and BRIGHT
who saw the possibilities of a World-Wide manu-
facturing trade for England, To day the realisa-
tion of that idea has reached its climax and is at
the turn, and the ever-growing success with which
the English manufacturing supremacy is being
challenged, is inevitably throwing the country
back upon her own threatened borders and warns
her to secure them. In other words, England,
like every other country, has changed- -and will
change—her fiscal system to suit the dominant
commercial class of the community,
# * *
Now, take the United States, which began, so to
speak, in 1v32,l v 32, where England is leaving off tq-day.
The Atlantic slope, stretching from the tropbs Up
to the land of semi-annual ice and snow—contain-
ing also within itself sufficient mineral stores to
make manufactures profitable—Was bound to have
to face the problem of the irreconcilable diversity
of the two great national interests. The Southern
half (like OUT Northern) was then fit only for the
production of raw material cotton, sugar,
tobacco. This raw material was exported to
Europe, principally to England, who returned it
in the shape of manufactured articles, which satis-
fied the South, but crippled the young and
struggling manufactures oi the North. The cry
for Protection against English competition arose
spontaneously and inevitably with the increase of
population and power in the Forth. The same
sry has arisen as inevitably with the growth of
our own Australian dene cracy. What was to be
done? If the Northern States and the Southern,
both of which were organised, resolute and strong,
were to continue under the Union, some com-
promise must be arrived at that would fairly
satisfy both. New York was hopeful about such
a compromise. Charlestown scoffed at it. Thus
the cry of Protection from the North was echoed
back by the cry of Separation or, as they called it,
Secession, from the South. In 1832 Carolina was
ready to insist by armed force on what is known
as "States’ rights,” the rights, that is, of the
States who had voluntarily entered the Union
to leave it if they desired. The President of the
day, Andrew Jackson, was a firm Unionist.
He simply met the the threat of forcible secession
by ordering the fleet into Charleston Harbour, and
the revolt collapsed. But only in appearance, for
it had shown the North the resolute temper of the
South, and the result was a very considerable
modification of the tariff. This was the com-
promise tariff which postponed the clash of the
two great irreconcilable interests of the nation for
30 years,
* # #
What made this compromise possible ? The
South had found a way out of the difficulty as it
now presented itself. That way was slavery. So
long as that “ institution ” and its free expansion
in the new Western States and territories was left
alone, this dog and cat, whose tails were Fed
together with the rope of the compromise tariff,
subsisted without a regular encounter. The story
does hot need completion here. It is too well
known. Abraham Lincoln, as the first Republican
President, meant not only Protection “ pure and
undefiled,” but also Abolition. So, at any rate,
the South thought, and it at once struck its blow
for autonomy —for Freetrade and Slave-Labour.
Gettysburg and the siege of Richmond decided the
failure of that blow.
* # #
It has been attempted here to show the
supremacy of Freetrade or Protection in two com-
munities as a natural and inevitable social and in-
dustrial process. That process is working upon
ourselves. The compromise tariff of 1832 sufficed
the absolute necessities of the case in the States
for thirty years, despite immense and continual
causes of irritation which are happily almost en-
tirely absent with us. The problem of coolio
labour, as we have it, can scarcely bo compared
with that of slavery as the States had it, and it is
the same with regard to the markets supplied
respectively by our North and by the American
South. The “ vested interests” that had grown
up (say) in the cotton trade alone, as between the
American South and the great northern and central
manufacturing cities in England, were immense.


No such “vested interests ” are to hand with us
here, nor any prospects of such. If Northern
Queensland were to be granted separation to-
morrow and proceeded to flood herself with coolie
labour, no intelligent person could for a moment
suppose that her sugar industry and cotton in-
dustry could grow to any such condition as would
permit of a victorious struggle with the other
countries that produce cotton and sugar. The
Free trade cry in Queensland, therefore, has no
justification whatever, at any rate as regards the
tropics and the tropical industries. All this
simplifies the present fiscal problem of Australia
to a degree which must make its inevitable solu-
tion obvious to anyone who is not rendered totally
blind by stupidity or personal interest.
» * #
Is there anyone who doubts what is the dominant
commercial class, what constitutes the dominant
commercial genius of Australia? Every year
sees the rule of the derhocracy more and more
firmly established. The first great democratic
problem was the land question. Were the many
or the few to enact the land legislation in their
interests ? The many were the democracy ; the
democracy had the votes, and the land question
(that is to say, the land question in its first stage)
was answered accordingly. The next great
democratic problem followed inevitably on the
first. Were the many or the few to con-
duct the country’s trade in their interests?
In other words, is Australia herself to
provide the huge bulk of her manufac-
tured consumption, or is the local Importer,
the Calico-Jemmy, to grow rich as the agent of
the manufacturers in England ? The many are
the democracy to-day just as they were yesterday
The democracy has the votes to-day just as we
had yesterday, and the manufacture question will,
in the long run, be answered accordingly. It has
been already answered in Victoria and New
Zealand. It is being answered in Queensland
and South Australia. It is about to be answered
in New South Wales. There is no escaping this.
It is, we repeat, an inevitable process of social
and industrial evolution. The amazing rapidity
with which it is being carried through, as com-
pared with its American prototype, springs from
the fact that the Opposition—the Freetrade and
“Cheap and Reliable Labour ” Class —the class
which corresponds to the slave-owning planters of
the Southern States, is wanting in the one great
factor of strength. It is organised, it is resolute,
it has the money and it owns the Press—but
it is weak. Australia is not going to have a
Gettysburg and a Petersburg over its fiscal and
labour question. The squatters and the planters
and their importer retail agents are not powerful
enough to block the way with force as well as
fraud. The process of social and industrial evolu-
tion is proceeding more quietly. We shall not
even want Andrew Jackson and his fleet with
the compromise tariff. We are going straight for
the triumph of the agricultural and manufacturing
democracy. We are going straight for National
Protection.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Brassey's Bosh.
If the brassy Lord Beassey would mind his own
business, instead of meddling with Australian
affairs, he would confer upon this country the
only obligation it is likely to owe him. He
skipped over part of Australasia on one of his
globe-trotting yachting jaunts, and like many
other persons who have done the same, he fancied
himself entitled to interfere in the manage-
ment of the affairs of our people. This
latest impertinence is a proposal that a
branch of the Royal Naval Reserve should
be established in Australia. That there should bean
Australian Naval Reserve is a belief we have
long held. But it should be part and parcel of a
system of national naval defence. We can have
neither the one nor the other until the ten years of
dependence and humiliation imposed by the Naval
Tribute arrangements shall have expired. Then
Australia will have its own ships, manned
by its own seamen, and commanded by its own
officers, and, we sincerely hope, built in its own
dockyards. In connection with the manning of that
navy, a reserve will be required. But, if mean-
while Brassey’s proposal be permitted to be
carried into effect and our seamen are enrolled in
the Imperial reserve, what will be left for the
Australian fleet ? At the critical moment, when
men are most required for the defence of our own
shores and our own waters, we will find the cream
of our seamen drafted into the Royal Navy and
shipped off to any part of the world where
an increased complement of hands is needed by
this or that squadron. Brassey’s idea is pro-
bably conceived in mere stupidity. But its
realisation would involve a vital inroad upon the
liberties and defensive powers of the Australian
peoples. Sending 700 men to the Soudan in time
of peace wifh the great Powers would be an inno-
cent diversion compared with having perhaps
5000 mariners whipped off in time of desperate
war, to fight the battles of the “ dear old mother
country ’• in the Baltic or the Gulf of Mexico,
while our own coasts were left bare to the ravages
of enemies not of our own making.
. +-
A Send-off for Abigail.
Of course Mr. Francis Abigail, M.L.A., of the
famous Australian Banking Company, Ltd., could
not start for England without a banquet. He
belongs to a type of men who, outside their own
parish, are entirely indistinguishable from the
vulgar crowd. When such individuals pay a visit
abroad they instinctively feel that they must get
some one to stick a label on them. The labelling
Process generally takes the form of a banquet, at
which social function complimentary drivel is safe
from instant and hilarious contradiction. The
published reports of the proceedings are useful to
®bt u Ut A 11 1? sen d to the local papers where ever
the beneficiaire proposes to turn up. It is not yet
the fashion to paste them on the traveller’s trunks,
but it is an almost invariable rule to scatter good
large parcels of the newspapers containing an
account of the entertainment, about the saloons
and smoking-rooms of the vessel in which the
voyager sails. By this process fellow-passengers
learn peremptorily and early in the voyage that
the fat, vulgar man with the swelled head, whom
they were, rating as a pretentious nuisance, is
regarded by a circle more or less respectable, in
the place where he has resided, as a monster
ot virtue and talent almost unspeakable. One
banquet is ordinarily considered adequate to
correct probable misconceptions regarding the
average outgoing colonist. But those who
are Mr. Abigail’s nearest associates appear to
have judged that it would take two such valedic-
tory demonstrations to assure his arrival right
side up. We are not disposed to question the
accuracy of the judgment exercised in this in-
stance. We should not have breathed a word of
cavil had it been considered necessary to give Mr.
Abigail four banquets, provided reasonable pre-
cautions had been taken to obscure the circum-
stance that the moving spirits were the same in
each instance. That a body of Orangemen in their
individual and Parliamentary capacity, should,
with a leaven of easily-caught, habitual banquet-
bummers, give a banquet to Mr. Abigail, and
that the Orange institution should give another
banquet with extra Orangemen filling the places
of the common, or town-hall, variety of banquet-
bug, is somewhat too flagrant an imposition upon
the public accessibility to imposture. However,
we are glad to put up with the double-barrel
banquet-trick so long as Mr. Abigail goes. The
country will miss him, We scarcely know.who
will fill his place, unless it be John Haynes.
Banquet speeches have an almost magical effect.
One never knows how splendid a creature a man
lias been until he is about to leave, and the
ordinary banquet-slobberer embellishes the char-
acter of the dear, departing guest with his
glistening slime, and the beslobbered one rises to
assure any novice who may be present, that the
s.obberer has rather understated his merit than
otherwise. The venerable Robertson helped on
this as he has on other occasions. But perhaps
there was something Saturnine in his remark that
he " did not like colourless politicians.” Appar-
ently Sir John likes them to be yellow. In the
speeches of the guest himself there were some
delicate touches of candour which are too admir-
able to be passed over in silence. We learn that
Mr. Abigail’s father inculcated to his plastic
mind not such trite (although professional)
maxims as “ there is nothing like leather,” but
that, “ whatever you undertake, satisfy yourself
that it is right, and, when you have satisfied your-
self upon this point, do it without considering
whether you offend or please.” This rule of life
is truly Abigailean. First, undertake a thing ;
second, satisfy yourself that it is right; then go
ahead and never mind, although people do make
remarks about the per shentage. There can be
nothing easierdor intelligences of the Abigalean
order than to satisfy oneself that anything one
has undertaken is right and even pious. It is
truly refreshing to observe Mr. Abigail himself
in the character—evidently an hereditary trait —
of moralist. “He would say to the men
of wealth who were seeking for happiness
without finding it, ‘here is a work made
to your hands that will give you a happi-
ness money cannot purchase.”’ This subtle
reference to the “going concern” of Mr.
IS athan’s money-lending business—a work made
to his hands—which was utilised as the nucleus of
the Australian Banking Co., Limited (Chairman,
F. Abigail, Esq., M.P.), is a very happy touch,
and carries us in memory back to the' original
prospectus, in which it was pointed out that
profits at the rate of sixty per cent, per annum
had been realised. Similarly the statement that
“ he felt no regret for anything that he might have
done to assist his poorer fellow-citizens ’ recalls to
mind the historical case of Frederick Hillier,
who pawned his horse and cart to get assistance
at Heaven knows how much per shent, and
laboriously paid the instalments to the bank over
which Mr, Francis Abigail presides as chairman,
and which, let us hope, has by now somewhat
reformed its ways. Mr. Abigail struck a chord
m the human breast every time. We have space
for but one touch more. It was noble, it was
glorious, it was inspiring to hear the honored
guest, on the occasion of the second banquet
shrilly scolding everybody of any standing in the
community because they did not come and ban-
quet him the night before. Good old Abigail—
what we most like about him is his high tone.
•>
The Quetta Disaster.
On Friday night last, three minutes after striking
on an uncharted rock, the Quetta, a fine mail-
steamer belonging to the British India Company,
went down into the depths and 100 lives were lost
with her. Some years ago all mail-steamers run-
ning up the coast between the Barrier reef and
the main land dropped anchor at night rather
than face the unknown dangers of that perilous
sea. Now, Over-confidence and long immunity
from accident have led to the steamers being
run at full speed night and day—hence the
Quetta disaster. The enforcement of the anchoring
regulations will doubtless be seen to by the Marine
Board of Queensland : but there is another view
of the question which appeals to all Australia.
The Quetta was manned by a Javanese crew.
These men, sleeping just under the forecastle, clad
in a couple of cotton garments, would naturally
have the first chance at the boats, and by the
received accounts they took full advantage of it,
and there was no room to be found for struggling
Europeans, women or men. We do not say that
white crews have not at times acted in as cow-
ardly a manner under the influence of panic, but, as
a rule, certainly not. The first thought inculcated
in a white sailor is the preservation of the women
and children, it is the last that occurs to the
Asiatic. The fate of the passengers by the Quetta
is’one to take warning by.
4.
The Abolition of Trial by Jury.
Sydney Rarer, charged with embezzling funds
entrusted to him as an official of the New South
Wales Office of Titles, has been tried three times.
On one occasion the jury disagreed, on two others
the defendant was acquitted. We wpnder whether
Rarer has not now a legal remedy against the
judges, one of whom was good enough on his own
account and also on the alleged account of the
Chief Justice, to proclaim in open court for the
benefit of all whom it might concern, including
prospective jurors in future trials, that, notwith
standing Rarer’s acquittal, he was, in thejudges’
opinions, nevertheless guilty. As the case stands,
Rarer has been acquitted by two juries and been
declared guilty by two judges. So far as the
public understand, the jury is the authority, and
only authority, as to guilt or innocence, and from
a democratic point of view the judges who took
it upon themselves to say that, despite the jury’s
acquittal, the defendant was a thief, are guilty of
a deliberate and utterly unprivileged slander.
Supposing that Rarer had been tried again before
his Honor Judge Windeyer, the mouthpiece of
the slander aforementioned, or his Honor Chief
Justice Darley, who, according to Mr. Justice
Windeyer, aided and abetted in the slanderous
pronouncement, what a pretty position would
have been occupied by either of those dig-
nitaries had the prisoner’s counsel then de-
fiantly said : “ Gentlemen of the jury,—You are
here to-day to decide on the case of the prisoner
at the bar who stands before you confident that
you will do justice to an innocent man The pre-
siding judge has said that my client, the prisoner,
who was acquitted by a former jury on a former
charge, was nevertheless guilty of that charge, and
though those remarks do not directly apply to the
case before ycu now, they must be held to strongly
prejudice my client’s case, for it is needless to say
that a man guilty of one theft is more likely to
commit another theft, or, what amounts to the
same thing, to be found guilty of another
theft, than is a man who had never stolen.
In fact, it would be better for my client
to-day were lie a man with a gaol-record of
twenty years, for in such a case no evidence or
opinion as to his former habits could have been
conveyed to the jury until, after his conviction,
the judge proceeded to apportion his punishment.
rom the Crown’s standpoint, and perhaps even
from the judge’s standpoint, the prisoner at the
bar comes here to-day to be convicted and pun-
ished; but, from the prisoner’s standpoint, becomes
here to-day an innocent man to vindicate his char-
acter, and what is democratic government coming
to when the verdict of a jury can be discounted
and even obliterated (as your verdict of acquittal
may be to-day) by the mere dictum of a judge? ”
But, unhappily, you don’t find barristers in the New
South Wales Supreme Court who dare to stand up
and fight against the encroachment of the Bench
upon the democratic privilege of Trial by Jury.
They are too afraid of their fat pickings. They
are too frightened of the attorneys, who say ;
“Oh, we can’t brief Jobkins in this case. It’s
to be heard by Judge Hangmoke, and Jobkins
lost his temper and had a big row with hini last
week.” What difference would that make ? Does
not everyone know that judges on their transla-
tion to the Bench become perfect angels ? Let
Parliament look to this matter.
The most significant cablegram for a long time is
the statement that Marshal M ‘Mahon approves
of the sentence passed on the Duke of Orleans,
for it will be remembered how M ‘Mahon, as
President, tried to bring about a Royalist coup
d’etat, in the interest of the Comte de Chambord.
This was 13 years ago. M ‘Mahon, in soldierly
fashion, gagged the Press, stuck Royalist Prefects
all over France, and took measures to emulate
Louis Napoleon. Ghambord spoilt the thing,
they say, by refusing to accept the Tricolor flag,
insisting on the old white Royal flag of the
Bourbons. The magnificent Royal coaches
were got ready for a triumphal procession
through Paris, when a suitable number of
Democrats had been slaughtered at the barri-
cades. M ‘Mahon is now convinced that the
Republic is the only possible form of Government,
and we say this is all-important, bearing in mind
how M‘Mahon, as President, fined and imprisoned
Gambetta for declaring that “the President must
submit or resign.” Honour to Gambetta, for he
it was who clapped an extinguisher on the con-
spiracy of M ‘Mahon, Broglie, Fourtou, and
General Ducrot. The death of Thiers, just
before the elections, struck a powerful blow for
the Republic, and the elections blew both Royalists
and Bonapartists sky-high, with a trlorious
Democratic majority, while the Royalists were
even far behind the Bonapartist. M ‘Mahon
backed down like a lamb, and the Liberals scooped
the pools. So mote it be.
Dear Bulletin,- —TheN.S.W. electoral list is now
being compiled. ThereareaboutlOOmen—shearers,
&c.—now working at this woolshed, and all had
their names placed on the Bourke list. Ere you
can publish this, the shed will be cut out and all
hands discharged. Should an election take place
in the middle of the year—as is almost inevitable
—these men by that time will be scattered all over
New South Wales, and will thus be altogether
deprived of the privilege of voting and cannot
exercise their right because they are not in the
Bourke electorate. This occurs every election.
Half of the workers in this back country have no
votes when an election takes place, through no
fault of their own. What we want is to be able
to take out a Right at any time and to be able to
record it in any electorate. Some big reform of
the present system is necessary, and the sooner
the better for the working classes in the back dis-
tricts.—Yours, Wm. Pearce. P.S.—Splendid
season—-for the squatters—but outside of shearing
there is nothing to do for the large number of
(mostly young) men, who are walking about here
at present.—W.P.
Queen Victoria and her numerous army of
descendants are just now gnashing their royal
tusks, and making use of much strong Teutonic
language on behalf of dear Alfred, a careful
middle-aged person commonly known as the Duke
of Edinburgh. It seems that, at Bismarck’s
suggestion, the Emperor of German}' has decided
to absorb the Duchy of Saxe-Coburg-Gotha into
his dominions directly the reigning Grand-Duke
has shuffled off his mortal spoil, notwithstanding
that the aforesaid Alfred stands in the relation
of the Lord’s Anointed Apparent to the district
above mentioned. In brief, it is considered that
Alfred’s Imperial nephew is about to chowse him
out of the heritage which Providence, in its infi-
nite mercy, did set aside for Albert the Good’s
second son. The inhabitantsof Saxe-Coburg-Gotha
are not especially grieved at the prospect of having
no more dukes, but the Victoria Regina crowd
naturally object to Alfred’s anticipated kingdom
being rudely chawed up by this other Anglo-
German. As for Alfred himself, his grief is too
deep for words. He had formed a thrifty scheme
for lending out the Saxe-Coburg revenues to
Tummy, Teck, Battenberg and Co. at 60 per
shent, payable in advance—and now his perfidious
nephew will devote uncle’s sugar to buying more
gunpowder and spiked helmets. No good is hoped
from Tummy’s special mission to Berlin with a
view to remonstrating against the Emperor’s land-
grab, but the Archbishop of Canterbury has
ordered his Church to pray for the Royal Family
rather harder than usual, under which circum-
stances it is expected that the Lord will provide.
Now just consider what the lofty-browed George
Higinbotham has been doing throughout the
Federal Conference—sitting as Chief Justice, to
hear the nauseously drawn-out case of Moss v.
Somner. What an evidence here of a career
thrown away, the clean-handed, brilliant, big-
hearted man who ought to be the leading states-
man of Australia, instead of Parkes, although
Dilke does say that Parkes is the third British
statesman of eminence, next to Gladstone and—
Macdonald of Canada ! If Parkes be that,
what ought Higinbotham to have been ? Alas !
Now, he is a “ has been.” Much younger than
Parkes, he has thrown himself away if ever a
man did. -Time was when the voice of George
Higinbotham shook Australia to its centre, what
is it that diverts a man of the people from such a
course as he entered upon ? Usually it is female
influence. Gossip —mere gossip—affirms this
with regard to Higinbotham. The usual course
of things may be set down thus. The wife of a
friend of the people—the common people—finds
that she is shut out of what is erroneously termed
“good society,” which takes this means of render-
ing her life miserable. Then she works upon her
husband and he recants. Is not this the process?
When will the women be sensible, and our states-
men’s wives despise the paltry wiles of Potts Point
and Toorak? When we have working mnn legis-
lators. And even then
+
Both in Sydney and Melbourne have Wesievan
Conferences been sitting of late, but they only
emphasise the weakness of the denomination.
While Australia goes rushing and bounding
ahead, Melbourne has naught to show of that
spirit which animated its Butters and Draper
of the past, and whore have they an orator within
cooey of Joseph Dare ? Here you have a lot of
smooth, smug mawworms quarrelling over the
rich churches, all struggling to get out of the
miserable bush into the glorious city. What they
ought to fight for should be exactly the reverse to
breast the stream. To see what a power Wes-
leyanism was, take up Buamires and Smith’s
history of it in Victoria. The secret was Demo-
cracy, the work of such rough-out fellows as
Jimmy Jeffrey, Saunderson, of Bendigo ;
Smith, of Byaduk ; and the local preachers who
are shuffled away now-a-days, while Dives bosses
the Church, reducing it to decent debility. Take
up the newspaper report of the opening of Mel-
bourne Wesley Church 30 years back, when
William Butters leathered in with his magnifi-
cent sermon an hour and a-half long to a crowded
house, whereas now, after a generation of Aus-
tralian progress, you will see, perhaps, 100 people
in the Church groaning under the eloquence of
a Crisp or an Adamson.
In connection with the Melbourne National Gal-
lery, there is a National Portrait Gallery, adorned
with pictures of all the Governors of all the Austra-
lian colonies, since Noah’s Ark, and it appears to
be considered that Posterity will crave after these
eminences Oh, it is enough to give one a bad
bilious attack, to look at that array of Youngs,
Gawlers, Robes, Barklys, and all the placid
swells in Windsor uniform, the apex being reached
in J. V. P. Foster, who was Governor of Vic-
toria for—how long, think you ?—six weeks ! On
the strength of which he is immortalised in the
Gallery. Now, what we want is a real National
Portrait Gallery, with Cook, Macarthur (the
Merino Man), Wentworth, Lowe, O’Shanassy,
Fawkner, Henty, Higinbotham, Heales, Wil-
son Gray', Ebenezer Syme, Lang, Vogel, Parkes,
Kendall, Labor, Burke, Wills, Sturt, Stuart,
and all the men who have really built up the con-
tinent. While young Australians, at school, are
stuffed with Punic Wars, Spanish Armada, and a
lot of rubbish no more useful than a novel, the
names of the men who made Australian History
are unknown to them.
Hooted.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
“ In addressing a meeting at Lambeth last week. Bishop
Barry made an attack upon Socialism. His renrarks were
hooted, and the disturbance became so great that he was
unable to proceed with his speech.”— Cable.
Now this is too much—hang it all
The times are democratic,
And all that kind of thing, of pourse,
But this grows too emphatic';
There must be some mistake ; we hope
This wire will be refuted ;
What’s England coming to at all
If Bishops can be hooted ?
A pretty spectacle, indeed—
The common folk, assembled
In thousands, stand and hiss and yell
Where once they knelt and trembled!
There was a time, not long gone by,
When anything that suited
The Bishops had to suit the rest —
JVo Bishop then was hooted !
The Church was lord of all .- its nod
Or frown or wink was potent.
If it declared that white was black
And black itself was no tint,
That was enough ; its word was law
To millions, fear-embruted,
But —thunder i only think of it—
To-day the Church is hooted !
The spiritual lords and gods
With whom Kings dared not battle
In former years, can hardly now
Take even a widow’s cattle ;
They cannot gather in the tithes
Who erstwhile empires looted.
And still we learn of insults gross—
A Bishop has been hooted !
Dear Bishop Barry !—if ’tis true,
And we can trust the cable—
How bitterly he must have felt
Amid that angry Babel
Of brutish cries and shouts and groans
Until he turned and scooted—
Alas ! to think a Bishop and
A gentleman was hooted !
We knew him well when in our midst
A little while he lingered,
A cleric of the higher school,
Refined and lily-lingered.
How learned and abstruse he was,
How cleverly he tooted
His complex theologio flute,
Applauded then, not hooted !
Before he hied him back to where
In sight of regal abbeys
The builders of them starve for bread,
What shoals of high-class tabbies
Hung on his words, and afterwards
Through Webster’s pages rooted
To find what he’d been giving them— •
A man like this is hooted !
How suave he was, how nice, how good
All round 1 allaying quarrels
On old-remembered points of faith
Or preaching abstract morals !
In giving Tone to all he did
It cannot be disputed,
He was the best man we have had,
But, somehow, he’s been hooted !
Aloft beyond the pigmy strife
Of forms and reredoses,
He stood, and said the One Divine
Had given us all our Crosses :
The pain, and woe, and want to Him,
He dexterously imputed,
And thought such things must always be
Well—he has just been hooted !
The English masses have been fed
On biblical flapdoodle
Like this for years, and years, and years
By many a holy noodle,
Or holy skunk, who knew for lies
The things he was deputed
To preach to them, yet preached f w pay—
And so he has been hooted.
The British public latterly—
As any but a blind man
May see—have learned to put their trust
In Huxley, George and Hyndmnn
As guides to what they ought to do
And shortly will have booted
The crowd that block the way and now
Are only being hooted !


“That invalid wife, mother, sister or child oan
be made the picture of health with Dr. Soule’s
American Hop bitters.”
‘SHQNnVS'V
Watches and Jewellery are like good wives—they are
worth having.
Send for Illustrated Price List. Post Free.
813 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
(Nearly opposite Railway Station).
Factories: Liverpool and London, England.
£2 10s. English Lever, Two Years’ Guaranteed.
£3 10s. English Lever, “The Unequalled,” full cap.
£4 English Lever, “ The Special,” compensated.
20/- The Unequalled Keyless Watch. 20/-
Oountry Residents and Visitors to Sydney call or send
to A. SAUNDERS, 813 George Street (nearly opposite
Railway Station), SYDNEY.
[?]
846 Macquarie-street North, Sydney, March 5, 1890.
My Dear Moorabinda, —
It has ever been a matter of deep speculation with
yours ever why so many women, when they set forth on
the sickly sea with a large brandy-flask in their reticule
and signs of great internal upheaval in the bilious glare
of their glassy optics—why these predestined marine
niartyrs don’t go straight to their shelves and remain
there until they reach their destination ? Nothing is
more dismally impossible than a sea-sick female, and no
woman who wants to fix the wavering affections of a man
should ever pay tribute to Neptune within a hundred yards
of him the man I mean, not the god. And it s posith ely
unhinging to see the awful tints in wrap and cap a woman
chooses todoitin. Thecapisahvaysin washy drab orcurry-
coloured so as to afford a complexion-match, while the
ulster is something that “doesn’t matter,” and is in-
. , , , ' , ... ~ ~ ... «
variably last year s style with all the buttons off. But
’ . , : , ~ , , , .
even this spectacle—dowdv as it looks moaning on top of
, . , r .,, .... . , , . ... , - ,
the hatch with its hair out of curl—is positively dandy
, ~ ~ , , .
beside the female who goes to sea with a floral hat on.
~ , , ~ . , , , ~
Roses never become the boiled-pork pallor induced by the
~ , „ , . , A . ~ , , ,
wobble of the mystic deep, and marigolds and mal-de-mer
. . , . , , A T ~ ,
accord in nothing but colour. I travelled with a person
. ....
recently who came on deck every day in a Paul Jones
. . ... ....
trimmed with poppies, and whenever she was sick these
, A * / , , , . , .
popviies would get loose and stand up in a belligerent
'l l , ... ... A . ~ .
attitude over her left eye as if the situation wasn t too
. ,
many for them at any rate.
■
And, apropos of the deep, the raging mam, what a cosy
excuse a coastal trip is to some ladies who indulge in a
moderate spree where all the tonics are administered
under the guise of “ iufallibles ’ “recommended by so
and so whom I promised to try it. I recall the flushed
face of a woman whom 1 left on a steamer some time ago.
I was among the last off, and she lay like a Federation
councillor taking his rest—with a porter-bottle on either
side of her and a B. and S. glass at her feet! She shared
my cabin, and one day she became horribly ill, according
to her own statement, and ordered “ Brandy and soda, oh !
quickly!” “ Soda and brandy did you sav, mum ?” asked
A ' , ... , „ , , ,
the stewardess, and it was as good as a play to hear the
. . , ’ . .... i. i , ,
eager taint correction, No, brandy and soda—it s no use
'. „
Pathetic re\ elation of the ‘ mutual help to be derii ed
from nineteenth century matrimony :
TVRITANNIA.-To 2nd Class Passengers.—Au invalid
Gentleman (travelling with his wife) requires an
ATTENDANT ; a luiddle-ag’ed female preferred ; must
be competent and a good sailor. Apply, with refer-
ences, to
Quite so. He is travelling with his wife, who promised
(that is, unless she was so absorbed in the tail of her wed-
ding-gown that she didn’t hear the stupid nonsense) to
cherish him in sickness and in health, but now he is forced
to cheerfully submit to he left to the wooden sympathies
of a “middle-aged female ” (she might have let him have
something plump and juvenile) with the frozen compas-
sions of a “good sailor,” while she reads Swinburne on
deck with the third officer and shudders at the smell of
barley-water I Tw as e\ er thus. And yet, 111 venture to
bet if the invalid gentleman turned up his toes en route
the entire body of male passengers would hardly suffice to
dry the doleful tears of the disconsolate widow.
I am sorry to see that the committee of Sydney School
of Arts have resolved to admit ladies at the reduced fee
of ten shillings per annum—a figure that brings the
heterogeneous literature in that great institution within
reach of the humblest female. Not that I think the
humblest shouldn’t riot in print occasionally if she wants
to, hut School of Arts reading is of an alluring, endless
nature that bodes ill for the material welfare of the house-
hold whose mistress starts bringing home hooks in a six-
penny strap. If they revelled in tomes on “kitchen
economy ” or “ the treatment of infants” there wouldn’t
be much to complain about, but I would venture to bet
that every woman will go straight for Wicked Jook yellow-
backs in three volumes, and, as a doleful consequence,
there will be more burnt chops, underdone potatoes, cheap
plush and Fauntleroy sashes in suburban existence than
there have ever been before Perhaps one in twenty will
borrow books which will enlighten her intellect and open
new avenues of thought for her, but the other nineteen
will go baldheaded for gore and strawberry-leaves, and
race to procure the next volume, leaving baby locked in
with the matches. If women were judicious and temperate
bibliomaniacs, the seduction could only produce beneficial
results, hut the majority of them are indiscriminate
devourers of the trashiest trash procurable. If you don’t
think so, just read the titles in the next strap-hill that
happens opposite you in the train or tramcar.
I wonder what the Bananaland team thought of the
weather on Ist hist, the date of the opening cricket-
match N.S.W. versus Queensland—at Sydney Association
Ground? It came down a soaker, and play was abandoned
shortly after luncheon, hut not before those nice wasp
caps and jackets of their s had got a drenching and more
than one doleful “ a-a-a-tishee ” had wafted gently through
the dew. As it had been dull all day, there was no dress-
ing in the ladies’ reserve its denizens, with the fear of
“cockleing” before their eyes, coming out in mackin-
toshes mostly. One woman got up a very variegated ap-
pearance in a terra-cotta silk gown with red morocco
shoes, pink flowers on her hat macintosh in broad
chromotrope stripes of crimson and yellow yellow gloves
and a red gamp She reminded me of a stick of sealing-
wax struck by lightning or a rambow picked out w.th
radishes, but the effect was cheerful on a wet day never-
theless Positively an indecent effect was produced by
uieiess. ‘ , , ‘ , , Y
. larire reversed-pear-shaped person who wore a skin-fit
a large ie> v * 1 , . , c . , , ,
irrev garment over a protuberant frontal development
gre> feniu.c w , . „ , . . ...
from which hung a lace handkerchief as if to accen-
unite the apex of the air-pillow crop. As play was put a
stop to lots of people rushed off through the rain, O. H.
Reid going to and fro as convoy duck to quite a posse o
pretty dears.
And apropos of this cricket contest. Let me warn
gushing society females who like to be always au courant
not to tell stories of the “ time the last Queensland team
played in Sydney, my dear,” for that mildewed excitement
happened just 25 years ago. I sat by a lady at the open
ing match who was unwise enough to get enthusiastic, and
admitted her presence at the ohavoo in ’66. But, instantly
recollecting herself, she said playfully, “ I was such a little
tot! yet I remember it pei fectly 1” It was a worthy effort,
hut, by the triumphant gleam in the bilious optic of her
she-friend, I saw the thing was hopeless.
Another “fashionable wedding” is announced—this time
between Miss Kiss, of “Ventnor,” Randwick, and Mr.
George B. Gordon, a well-known amateur Melbourne
cricketer. The ceremony will take place at St. Jude’s
Randwick, on.2sthinst. Miss Hamilton’s marriage with
Sir. Weigall will eventuate early in the year, while the
nuptials of Miss Sophy Forbes and her Fijian adorer are
billed for Easter. 1890 seems a “lucky ” year matrimoni-
ally.
Though the present month is only socially distinguished by
one or two weddings we are promised lively times for April.
Besides the races, there are to be a ball at Government
House on April 8, a Mayor’s ball on 10th, and Lady
Carington will hold a reception on the 11th. The Mayoress
. receives on 16th, for which date a Mayoral dinner is also
fixed. Many private “ affairs ” are also on the tapestry.
And with all these festivities within coo-e-e, I would
like to suggest a pretty, airy evening material for those
girls who haven’t moi'e money' than they know what to do
with. White cotton crape is a beautiful stuff, not costing
much per yard either, and when washed it comes out of
the tub as good as new 1 Just fancy a washing-gown for
evening wear. I expect this festive economical fabric
will quite oust dull, serviceable black from the arena of
evening wear.
After all Sydney’s City Fathers still cling fondly to the
derni-train of office, for, at the Town Hall the other Tues-
day', Mayor Burdekin came out in a Direotoire gown of
black silk faced with red silk and ermine, trencher-cap en
suite and braided trousers. At a previous meeting it had
been decided that the Mayor should dispense with the
rag-baggy finery of his predecessors, but I suppose the
civi# adoration of fur and feather-stitch lies too deep to
be uprooted all at once. By the bye, I hear that “ Sir ”
Sydney Burdekin has dedicated £lO,OOO to the hospitali-
ties of his year of office.
For a dreary hash of ludicrous hysterics centred
around one fat child in a groggy wig commend me to
“ Fauntleroy ” as he is played by Olive Berkley at Sy'dney'
Royal, every other night. I have not seen Gracie in the
part, but in Olive’s hands that dear little impossibility
looks a solid brat who Won’t want to buy a bustle when she
grows up, anyhow, and whose contour generally is not
specially adapted to tight fits. Why Ethel Winthrop (a
massive actress of the “give me me cheyild” school and
one eye on the stage-boxes) plays “bright-haired” Mrs.
Errol in sombre looks, why the dog isn’t introduced in
the second act where he belongs instead of in the third
where he doesn’t, and why Wilkins keeps his hat on in the
library are mysteries that the high-class tone of the show
forbids one to enquire into ; but the absence of starch in
the linen and demeanour of the noble earl, who evidently
clothes himself on the slops system, and the Domainlike
ensemble of Mr. Havisham; not to mention the eccentric
fit of Leopold’s wig, are matters that should be explained
in the advertisements. There is one gown in “ Fauntle-
roy,” a white confection worn by Mrs. Errol in the last
act, but it isn’t quite so lovely as other gowns I haveseen,
and for giddy heights of style Leopold’s decollette plaid-
vest leaves it absolutely nowhere.
According to the best-bound works on “How to Be-
have,” a woman should never cross one knee over the
other under any circumstances, and it’s a restriction very
generally followed, but, “stowing all nonsense,” as Jack
says, when did you ever see a woman look anything but
awkward unless when she does cross them ? Most women’s
limbs are too short, and when they sit straight just notice
the beautiful tilt of their laps and the pitiful little hitches
they make ever and anon to keep from sliding on to the
floor! A woman who crosses her knee—not too high, but
just high enough to reveal the whole of the supporting
pedal—sits firm and straight and presents a comfortable
pose, which 5 the etiquette-ridden female with her entire
being on the slant never can hope to attain. And then
the crossed knee shows the prettiest view of the raised
' foot, which is turned inside, to the public, and if the
instep is nicely arched and the hose fit, what more do you
want V One thing to be borne in mind is that a crossed
knee is impossible either in a too tight or too short gown.
The various cliques of the tjred little town of Hobart
are beginning, after a lapse of three dull years, to turn a
coldly interrogative gaze at the local Government House,
which rarely opes its portal even for the cheap and nasty
“ reception ” or the economical “ at home,” and whose
female denizens spend their time hovering around she-
missionaries and large-footed leaders of Y.W.C.A. move-
ments and other toast-and-w’ater persons to the exclusion
of the dancing-brigade. Frequent religious afternoon
orgies are inaugurated, and purely as an experiment I
attended one of these vice-regal Ebenezers lately. The
upper part of the room was occupied by four she-mis-
sionaries with Lady and Miss Hamilton for orbit—the
lower was crowded with Those nice flat-w'aisted young
females who wear blue ribbon in their buttonholes and
never put powder on a pimple. First we prayed—then
we hymned (alas ! with a strict y in it!) then we were
“ addressed ” for a full hour, then more hymns, prayers,
a gleam of weak tea, and the shavoo was over. Fancy
that for an afternoon at Government House! I would like
to direct the prayers of the readers of The Bulletin to
the dire social needs of Hobart.
I am glad to see that lots of women now remove thei
hats when in the stalls as a matter of course. At Sydney
Royal the other evening I counted no fewer than ten who
had unbonneted, and by the tearful gratitude on the faces
of the men behind I saw' that they had not revealed their
hairpins in vain. And in this case virtue is its own
reward for nearly every woman looks best with her hat
off, provided she isn’t bald. Undoubtedly the most be-
coming place to wear a theatre-bonnet is on your knees.
I have just been wrestling with a composition in one
flat by Lieut. Pegum, of Sydney, w'hose idealised photo,
adorns the front page, on the soul-stirring subject of the
“ Federal Banner of United Australia.” It is in kangaroo-
time, and any person who enjoys the sensation of having
his teeth yanked out will find much to admire in the
beautiful distribution of words and music. Regarded
from the lofty standpoint of a national inspiration, the
“F.B. of U.A.” is an abject failure. A man who could
write and compose a song and then dedicate it respect,
fully to Baron Carington isn’t the Heaven-sent minstrel
Australia is hungry for.
Our Quong is said to have got off a good thing
‘ at a banquet held in Sydney recently. Somebody pressed
him to take more fizz, but as the amber fluid had been
round more than once our Mandarin refused, saying, “No
thanks. If I took more of that stuff I shouldn’t be a tart
but a roley-poley.” Leading senators would save them-
selves a gallon of matutinal sodas if they recollected this
washy little Chinese joke at the tenth bottle.
In “ My Jack,” at Sydney Her Majesty’s, Roland Watts
Phillips w'ears a villainously cut pink frock in act 1 with
no perceptible waist, though ber grey gown in act 2
somewhat makes up for the crudities of this blotting-
paper what-is-it; Mrs. Bignold, when she implores Jack to
“ fly,” shouldn’t drop into a flying attitude herself —as if
to show him how to do it; and Greenaway, if he does get
his face up with white of egg, ought to rub it over with
powder or something to subdue the awful glaze.
Yours affectionately,
SAPPHO SMITH.
A Melbourne paper is responsible for the
statement that three of the most enthusiastic ad-
vocates of Federation are judicially separated
from their wives.
Sir George Bowen tells a good story of a
Governor sent to Mauritius who knew not a
word of French. He joined in the furious ap-
plause at a banquet, while a French speaker
violently abused “ Sir Hitch Bitch Sir M.
Hicks-Beach, Secretary of State for the Colonies
Secretary Dickson, of the Canadian Feder-
ation League, has written to Service, M.L.C.,
anent the extension of his country’s commerce.,
Mr. Dickson concludes :—“ With us it is ‘ Canada
above all;’ so will it be with you, ‘Australiafirst,’
but ‘the Empire always.”’ Dickson is wrong.
Like Colonel Kelly, of Eclipse fame, with us it is
•—Australia first, the rest in a bunch, nowhere.
Judge Deffell, who recently retired from
the N.S.W. Bench, was “great” at quoting Latin.
On one occasion a young law-clerk made an appli-
cation to his Honor, in Chambers, to sign an
order. The judge looked through the papers, and,
finding they were not in order, said : “ I can’t
sign this —you are wrong ah initio .” The young
law-clerk innocently looked up at the judge.
“ Excuse me, your Honor,” he said, “ you’ve
made a mistake —my name is not Ahhy Nishio /”
The Brewery boom, in England, has re-
ceived rather a severe check, through the want of
success of the Alsop Company, which was floated
after the Guinness Company, Apparently on the
strength of working like yeast upon the gullible
public, the late and great Alsop was made Lord
Hindlip, but he died shortly after, and his heir,
young Lord Hindlip, lately made the Australian
grand tour and stayed at all the Government
Houses. The company is dropping down to 3 per
cent, dividends, when 33 per cent, was to be a
mild figure !
Divorce Judge Windeyer’s latest shocking
example is one John Henry Newton, who got
married in January, 1887, and deserted his wife
after a honeymoon of two days. In 18 months
he turned up again for another two days’ honey-
moon—-and then Mr. Newton cleared out again,
never having in all his life contributed to his
wife’s support—and when she next heard of her
luvin’ husband he was in the court-dock, just
after promising to commit bigamy 1 So far
Mrs. Newton can’t get a divorce because she has
not been able to prove “ domicile.”
Newspaper-readers are threatened with a
fresh infliction. In addition to the perhaps neces-
sary announcement of “birth, death and mar-
riage,” and the unnecessary “ In Memoriam ”-—a
particularly nauseous and unhealthy growth of
morbid sentiment - “ Christenings ” are now
threatened. In fact, one sample has already come
to hand ;
Christenings.
SNOOZLEVAL.—Feb. 9, 1890, at the Wesleyan Church,
Poodle, by the Rev. Dropso’water, Alphonso Flapdoodle,
son of the Rev. Snoozleval, of Foodie.
“First toothings,” “Measlings,” and “Breech-
ings,” are also contemplated.
Carlyle was once invited to meet the
Queen at dinner at Dean Stanley’s house. Her
Gracious started the conversation, and began
talking to the sage in her usual haughty Guelphic
.style, but she had not got very far with her re-
marks when Carlyle brought her up short by
flatly - contradicting one of her statements, and
then proceed to lay down the law in his own way
■on the subject in dispute. The Queen snorted
: and frowned, but her displeasure was unnoticed
by Carlyle, who' continued to talk on till Her
Majesty, in high dudgeon, rose abruptly from the
: table and retired. She tried to be revenged by
offering to make the Chelsea seer a baronet, but
the old man declined the degradation.
The Orotiki Mail, a N.Z. paper, whose
literary morals may be guessed from the fact that
it announces that “the editor feels lone and
miserable when he can find no par. that’s scissor-
able” (a sentence stolen from the American), is
the latest wholesale burglar of The Bulletin’s
columns. A late issue contains “An Idyll of
Dandaloo,” verses written for The Bulletin by
“The Banjo,” “run on ” in prose form and unac-
knowledged. Missionary Yolkner was, we remem-
ber, murdered and deprived of his eyes near
Opotiki; the eyes were eaten as a delicacy by the
Hau-haus (and doubtless the editor of the Mail
had his share), but the brains were left intact, and
so, the wielder of the local paste-pot has the eyes
to discern good things, and not the brains to evolve
them or the honesty to acknowledge the source
from which they come.
.. “Canterbury ” (Alex.) Hutchinsoy, M.P.,
a shining light, whose godly tendencies crop out
in the fact that he gave to his “ dear wife J ane ”
a book called “ The Christian Philosopher,” has,
it would appear, indulged in the luxury of two wives,
a legal wife and one of brevet-rank. Mr. Hutchin-
son,°it will be remembered, asked the Assembly to
defer its judgment until the divorce-action entered
by Mrs. Hutchinson the first on the grounds of
desertion and adultery, had been disposed of ; but
now that this pillar of Freetrade, ginger-beer and
other virtues, has allowed a rule nisi to go by de-
fault, what is the ’Ouse to think? The N.S.W.
Legislative Assembly and public may now and then
permit some eminent statesman or other to own
several wives and families all at once, but it hasn’t
yet issued a license of this kind to the aforesaid
member for Canterbury. The injustice of the
world is simply horrid.
Lord Dunlo, the bright youth who visited
Australia some months ago, and wrote to an Eng-
lish alleged friend so interesting a letter (since
published), is proceeding against his wife for
divorce. At the instigation of “friends,” he left
his wife at the Registry Office door immediately
after the marriage, and was shipped off to Australia,
where, he writes, “ the women are very like what
they are in England—l suppose it’s the climate.”
He now seeks to rid himself of Viscountess Dunlo
on the grounds that the marriage has never been
consummated, that the Viscountess owns another
husband, and that she has been carrying on with
somebody else since he deserted her. The Dunlo
may yet find himself in the same box with the
Earl of Euston, who married an Adelaide bar-
maid, whom, he finds, he cannot divorce. “ I’ll
never go wrong,” she says, “not me ! I’m going
to be Duchess when Euston becomes Duke of
Grafton after the old man croaks. ”
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Theatre Royal. ~ “ Pointsman.”
Her Majesty's “My Jack.”
Criterion “ Caste.”
Standard Theatre Richard 111.
Otera House “ Hans the Boatman.”
Cyclorama Battle of Gettysburg,
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Theatre Royal “ Hands Across the Sea.”
Princess’s “LaTosea.”
Alexandra “Robbery Under Arms.”
Opera House “Nemesis.”
St. George's Hall Coghill Bros. Company.
The revival of that patch-work play,
“ Richard III.,” at the Standard Theatre, is, we
fear, a foolhardy experiment; should it prove a
financial success it will furnish a remarkable ex-
ample of the manner in which genius triumphs
over apparently insurmountable difficulties. The
Richard of Geo. C. Miln is an undoubtedly fine
performance, marred chiefly, to our mind, by an
attempt to do too much in an elocutionary way.
It is not always possible nor desirable to image
more clearly by marked voice-inflection the ob-
jects or ideas represented by the words uttered,
and when, during a long speech, this lime-light
inode of elocution is constantly employed, it
usually has a monotonous, see-saw, and tiring
effect. Another small spot on the sun was in that
portion of the tent-scene which is Cibberised from
“ Henry V.,” when Richard speaks of the hum of
battle and the noise of the armourers—when the
utterance of these phrases is accompanied by an
inarticulate and meaningless wail and a tin-kettle
obligato from the “ supers ” in the wings. Veri-
similitude cannot be obtained by such trumpery
means. Such hidden simulations should have
been continuous throughout the scene in order to
be effective; but the great artist, he he poet,
painter, novelist, or actor, only suggests, does not
photographically and microscopically delineate,
leaves something to the beholder’s imagination,
and, thereby, giving each individuality an oppor-
tunity to clothe a not obtrusive figure with an
inherent something, an emanation of the inner
self, appeals to a much wider audience. Mr.
Miln’s venture is somewhat handicapped by the
inadaptability of the stage to scenic effect. Lately
Sydney has seen some very fine Shakespearean
staging, and this is the age of theatrical upholstery.
He is assisted by a number of smart young men
of good stage-presence and possessed of clear
voices and some idea of speaking English ; there
are also some good old veterans, including G. R.
Ireland, whose representation of the lugubrious
Henry. VI. was excellent, and H. N. Douglas,
whose “ make-up ” as Richmond we did not like,
but whose lines were manfully spoken. Louise
Jordan did not appeal very strongly to our sym-
pathies as Lady Anne. Her representation of the
scolding, easily-swayed woman was creditable, but
there was much wanting. Kate Douglas as Eliza-
beth was forceful, but her hysterical “ weeps ”
were too reminiscent of the Widow Twankey to
induce us to “ mingle.” The Duchess of York of
Mrs. Walter Hill was dignified and throughout
harmonious. The dresses and scenic effects are
fairly good, and the merit of the performance
should draw good audiences to the little, long-
closed theatre.
vfc
At Her Majesty’s “My Jack” continues
to 1 ‘ paralyse ” large audiences. All the mechanical
effects now move with the smoothness and regularity
of the solar system. The blowing-up of the light-
house and the rescue of “Jack” is the great
sensation, but the realism of the sunset scene in
the droughty desert, strewn with the skeletons o!
camels, dead Arabs, and donkeys, is equally
popular. It causes a steady drain on the bars
after the curtain drops. _ This is naturalism if you
like. It is much appreciated by those to whom a
“ good thirst ” is a thing of beauty and the cause
of “liver.” “My Jack” will probably run for
another month.
26 * * *
This is the age of bold experiment, and
the man who is unconscious of his own worth, or,
aware of its existence, bashfully conceals it under
a quart-pot, is not likely to come out on top. As
Hans the Boatman, at Sydney Opera House.
Charles Palmer is not a bewildering success. He
looks nice, and, having a syrupy, though un-
trained, voice of limited compass, sings sweetly,
but he can't dance much, and his performance,
especially in the lighter scenes, lacks the in-
describable something that can only be given
by innumerable unobtrusive touches whose exist-
ence and necessity are unknown to the novice.
The children, “Baby Tessie ’ and Ally Wool-
dridge, are clever, and the dog “Lion” is a
splendid specimen of canine architecture. Irene
Lambrette, as Gladys, speaks distinctly, and
moves gracefully, but is otherwise painfully
amateurish, so is Ruth Wallace in .1 effie, a bud
from Nature’s garden, and her voice is also some-
what unsympathetic, while her abbreviated
pirouetting on a prolonged shoe is not the best
thing of its kind we’ve seen lately. _ Messrs.
Joyce and Chichester are equal to their oppor-
tunities, but wo sigh for the heads of the other
misguided men on a soup-plate. Artist Vaughan’s
lake scene is very pretty indeed, in fact, it is worth
the money alone, and Professor Rice leads the
tuneful choir with much grace.
“Standing Room Only ” continues to be
hung out at Sydney Criterion, and the lines of the
management are now cast in pleasant places
Everybody is, if possible, better than at first, and
we should not now be afraid to trust Pattie Brown
with the last office-baby. The houses as yet show
no signs of failing, and “Caste” may run out the
season.
* * 26 26
“Little Lord Fauntleroy” is on his last
legs at Sydney Royal, and “ The Pointsman
takes its place on Saturday evening, when the
Sydney public will he introduced to a galaxy of


A GHOST
is not a photograph, nor a photo, a ghost—but a good photo, is a
true reflection of the original. For high-art photos, go to the
London Palace of Art, 10 Park-street, Sydney. Country photographers’ work from developement
o completion executed at lowest prices. Bromides a speciality, Staff of artists kept for working up.
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
Everybody says— and what everybody says must be ( rue
—that Pemell’s Snow white Patent Roller I louk is the
best in the market.
talent, mostly new, pioneered by Frank Emery,
and including Buoklaw, Calvert, Clyndes, Steven-
son, and the Misses Cowper and Blande.
*- X * X
At Gettysburg Oyclorama, when lecturer
Skelton was descending from his rostrum, after
expatiating for an hour on the American Civil
War, a melancholy-eyed, wall-faced warrior ap-
proached him with Bathurst-burrs in his hair,
the mud of the Murrumhidgee on his highlows,
the froth of several long “Tooheys”on his upper-
lip, and the faintest tint of the brogue on his
tongue-tip, and inquired, without circumlocution,
“Which wor the Frinch an the Ghirmans?” Ho
now sleeps with several other colonels at the foot
of a grassy mound.
XX X X
At Bondi Aquarium things have been un-
settled owing to the weather, hut several novelties
are laid on and business hums when the skies are
clear. The club was opened last Saturday., We
were there and still live; a course of “gallery”
work and suburban councils has made us drivel-
proof. We can speak highly of the directors’
whisky.
* XXX
At the Palace Museum a working-model
of the Broken Hill Proprietary Mine, constructed
by two practical miners from the Barrier, is now
on view. Owing to the necessity for showing the
internal as well as external workings, everything
is not placed with thorough exactitude, but other-
wise it is a very fair, though not gaudy, counterfeit
of the original. Madame Helen Cunard sings at
intervals during the day, and there is a new and
fascinating electric lady.
XX X X
The first appearance of Mrs. Potter and
Kyrie Bellew (two distinguished notoriety artists)
occurred at Melbourne Princess’s on Saturday.
The presence of the local emblem of monarchy,
added to the fact that Mrs. Potter’ costumes are
“ by Worth, of Paris,” gave a certain air of re-
fined interest to this sad event, as far as the dress-
circle and stalls were concerned. Above in the
amphitheatre, where Worth (of Paris) is not a
name to conjure with, public interest in Mrs.
Potter took the form of exhortations to speak up
and vented itself in irreverence calculated to dis-
gust Worth, of Paris, had that excellent milliner
been there. Even K. Bellew provoked an occa-
sional scoff, although he also is a splendidly-
upholstered person who realises our dreams of an
adult Little Lord Fauntleroy. But let us be just
as well as ungenerous, “ Camille,” as everybody
knows, is a tiresome play, permeated by sham
motives and charged with rotten sentiment.
Characters intensely artificial may suit the arti-
ficial intensity of Mrs. Potter and her chief
apostle, yet they could not fairly be expected
to make “ Camille’s” colonial reputation pro-
portionate with their monstrous puffs. Con-
templating Mrs. Potter, the actress, through
the glamour of Worth (of Paris), it seems that she
lias a weak voice, a monotonous utterance, a
method which is effective, though lacking strength
to compel the constant attention of her audience,
and a very distinct talent for dropping herself
about. In the latter respect Saturday’s gallery
“queered the pitch” of this aspiring lady most
nnpardonably. When Mrs. Potter sank, like a
snowflake, upon Bollew’s knee, or fell violently
against his heaving bosom, a roar of laughter
damped her ardour, and doubtless dissuaded her
from putting on the Grecian hug which is reported
to be her histrionic card. Bellew, indeed, is a
fragile variety of blossom, so perhaps the bays
were convulsed at the thought of Mrs. Potter
breaking him. But even in its arrested develop-
ment evidences of the possible sublimity of Mrs.
Potter’s stage-cuddle were not wanting. She
is earnestly recommended to let it go, and never
mind the boys. Mrs. Potter is likewise great on
the faint, although Bellew, for the matter of that,
can go down sideways with a sickening thud. As
a stage beauty Mrs. Potter scarcely fulfils ex-
pectations, in so far that the dresses by Worth (of
t 'aria) hang upon a wasted form. They do say she
had a deal more bust on in Boston, hut, anyway,
the lady’s present appearance, charming though
it he, does not justify the new sliding scale of
prices, commencing at £2 and £1 for dress-circle
and stall seats. The Bulletin is expected to
drop upon delusions. Now Mrs. Brown-P. at 40s.
a peep, is a semi-transparent delusion, even with
Worth (of Paris) thrown in.
Kyrle Bellew comes as a pleasant surprise
to those who have not seen him act for some years.
He attitudinizes less irritatingly than of yore—is
more like a real human being, and not quite such
a small parody of Irving. At odd moments—and
he has some very odd moments—Kyrle is still an
insufferable sugar-plum, but in a general way he is
an improved Bunthorne, whose mannerisms can
be forgiven for the sake of his style of doing up
his front hair. There is a certain power about his
acting, too, and his love-making is just the glazed-
surface kind of article to kill any barmaid who
reads the Family Herald in bed. “Camille”
only runs for a week, prior to the putting up of
”La Tosca.” In this tremendous play, Mrs.
Brown-Potter will stand or fall on Saturday next.
If she falls, she is sure to come to artistic grief in
raiment by Worth, of Paris.
** * *
A. cruel gash was made in the Brown-
Potter boom last Monday, when citizens of Mel-
bourne were invited to take first choice of dress-
circle seats for “La Tosca” at abnormal rates.
-The eventful morning came and passed away and
so did the memorable afternoon, but not one soli-
tary citizen rolled up to book a situation for the
great first night; consequently “La Tosca” is
postponed for another week, and the “Lady of
Lyons ” will be produced at the Princess’s on
Saturday night (prices as usual). Brown-Potter
fell from two pounds to five shillings before you
could say “Bunkum.”
** * *
4 Robbery Under Arms,” the play which
the Dampiers and Garnet Walch have adapted
from Rolf Boldrewood’s story, is likely to fill Mel-
bourne Alexandra with a stupendous shout until
further notice. The plot of the novel has been
followed in most particulars which entail the
tnumpli of virtuous bushranging over a despicable
police system, and the curtain mostly descends
npon an exhilarating spectacle of heroic cattle-
lifters giving their natural enemies fits. In a land
where simple citizens stand in everlasting dread of
bemg scruffed off to a germ-infested dungeon for
insulting behaviour just because a full-sergeant is
suffering from face-ache, “ Robbery under Arms ”
supplies a long-felt want. The moral of the
original story is somewhat up against bandits,
but the drama ends with a free pardon for
Laptam Starlight and his constituents, who
are finally left on the blissful brink of
matrimony by a crowd of discomfited troopers,
oeveral stirring robberies are accomplished
in the course of the evening, and were it
not for the conduct of Moran—a bad, Judas
-scariot kind of property-annexor—life would be a
constant picnic for the bounding sons of the bush.
Poor Jim, whose many excellent qualities are dis-
counted by a plum in his mouth, gets stabbed by
Moran, but that miscreant is fortunately wiped
out anon by Warrigal, the aboriginal. This
doesn’t restore the other victim to his sorrowing
family. It is poetic justice, however, and the
audience find further satisfaction in the thought
that Jim’s grave will be kept green. About forty
performers, headed by Dampier, Miss Lily, Miss
Russell, Baker, Rede, and J uli ns Caesar, piled tip
the agony with great discretion on Saturday.
After more practice they will pile it up higher
s tdl. The _ real strength of “Robbery Under
Arms ” lies in its local colour. It brings—to para-
phrase Pinero—the odour of gum-trees across the
footlights, and strikes right home to young Aus-
tralia’s heart. This first performance was under
the immediate patronage of “Boldrewood”
Browne, the author, a gentleman richer than the
Governor in everything save unearned increment.
* X Tie- x
At the Royal, there is still a disposition to
endure “Hands Across the Sea,” and a growing
tendency to enthuse over the fine, broad villainy
°f. H. H. Vincent—not forgetting the educated
criminality of Herbert Flemming. Also the Boston
Ideal Company, at the Victoria Hall, are found to
be fresh and bright as far as they go—which is not
a great distance. St. George’s Hall and other
shows likewise provide some measure of consola-
tion for backers upon whose stone-broken hearts
the name of Churchill is indelibly stamped.
** * *
Another of Saturday’s big events was
“ Nemesis,” at the Opera House. Time has not
robbed this venerable extravaganza of all its fun-
niness, and although it dates back to the pre-
Gilbert and Sullivan period, “ Nemesis ” is fairly
in touch with modern notions of a joke. Besides,
legs can never grow old, nor can the glory of
tights fade while reason occupies a comfortable
seat. These things are liberally laid on at the
Opera House, and as the principals contrive to be
friskier than was expected it seems likely that the
present bill will be renewed for the remainder of
a short season. Like most burlesques from the
French, this turns upon the troubles of a weak-
minded tenor in a white satin suit, who
narrowly escapes getting married to two girls
at once. Furious old
fathers-in-law chase the
tenor around as much as
possible, but whenever a
good opportunity offers
he sings a ballad"to him-
self, or a duet with either
of his girls. Sometimes
they all sing, and the
rest join in the chorus.
Dancing is not much of
an accomplishment with
this company, but the
warbling of Bracy, Knight
Aston, Forde, Lilian
Tree, and little Flora
Graupner is more than
good enough for the work.
The burden of the fooling
is fairly supported by
the three male gentle-
men. and further com-
ment upon the incidental
legs would be like greas-
ing the fatted calf.
** X X
Melbourne musical
circles of the strict order
are not over-pleased with
the announcement that
Marian Burton, the beau-
tiful contralto so distin-
guished with Santley in
oratorio, is to appear in
tights as the Paul Jones
of Nellie Stewart’s opera
troupe, but Marian was
in Carl Rosa’s opera com-
pany with Snazelle. Peo-
ple can’t live on the
whipped syllabub of roar-
atorio, hut must have the
roast beef of a regular
u igh tly engagement, even
if it be in opera bouffe.
From March 4, the
style of our leading
theatrical firm is Messrs. Williamson, earner,
and not Musgrove. W. and G. will conduct the
destinies of the Melbourne Princess’s and Royal,
also of the Adelaide Theatre, while Musgrove
plays a, lone hand at Sydney Royal. The Trium-
virate is dead, long live Williamson and Garner —
and Musgrove ! We wonder who is the woman at
the bottom of the dissolution ?
IK- * m *
Miss Gracie Warner turns out this sort of
stuff for publication in a Melbourne “sporting”
rag. It is an extract from a letter addressed to
Australia at large, under cover to the small-beer
chronicler of the aforesaid print“l intend one
day that you shall all be proud of me and say,
‘ Well, Miss Warner’s school of art was Australia.
It was in the colonies they recognised her opening
talent and made her aspire, etc., etc.’” In any
other line of art Miss Warner’s sweet belief in her-
self would endanger her prospects, but on the stage
cast-iron confidence and an average amount of in-
telligence are all that a girl requires.
* * 4ff *
The Adelaide Royal will be re-opened by
by Frank Lincoln, who will give his one-man-
show for a short season, to be followed by a host
of novelties arranged for by Wybert Reeve during
his recent visit to Melbourne and Sydney. Jolly
John Nash has finished a really good fortnight at
Garner’s Rooms, which will now be occupied by
the American Novelty Company under the
management of George Jones.
* *
The Oxford-street Congregational Church,
Collingwood, advertised a sacred concert, last
Sunday night, another step towards Melbourne’s
emulation of Sydney. Wilson, of the Palace
Hotel, is taking steps for Sunday concerts. The
ladies’ choir of St. Paul’s is out of a job, and
would draw in surplices. Poor gals ! How’s the
marriage market ?
* * * *-
“Felix Patrick” wants us to adjudicate
on the merits of a one-act play, called “ Burke and
Julia,” one of the most extraordinary things ever
written. There are three scenes. The first is
behind the scenes of the old Princess Theatre,
Melbourne, while the burlesque of “Aladdin” i s
going on, the actors including Fawcett as Widow
Twankey, Julia Mathews as Aladdin, and Rogers
as Abanazar, the magician. Richard O’Hara
Burke, the explorer, comes in and has a conversa-
tion with Fawcett, explaining how he has just got
engaged to go on the expedition. Burke was on
intimate terms with Fawcett and Julia Mathews.
Well, Fawcett, in his Twankey costume, is called
on the stage, but, while he has been talking to
Burke, Julia and Rogers are heard on the stage,
Julia singing her well-known
Mirth and pleasure to enjoy,
I’m an idle vagabond boy.
Fawcett goes on the stage and Julia comes off.
She has a painful scene with Burke, who wants
her to marry him before he goes, hut she refuses.
Burke then rushes out. The final scene shows
him dying in the Red Desert. His last thought is
of Julia Mathews, and the refrain in his ears is—
I’m an idle vagabond boy.
Burke's passion for Julia Mathews was notorious.
At Poverty Point.
It would interest old playgoers to know what became
of the handsome little boy (I. V. Brooke adopted in
Melbourne in the fifties. He used to play child parts
very intelligently.
In company with “Sister Flo” Belle Bilton has been
playing in pantomime, for the first time, at the Prince’s,
Manchester. She was billed thus :—“ Prince Tootsy-
Pootsy (the pet of the peerage) Viscountess Dunlo.”
A certain speculator is just now saying unkind things
regarding certain theatrical people who, he alleges, “ ran
him into ” a venture to erect a new theatre for them and
then “backed out.”
LINES WRITTEN ON A PIECE OF BROWN
POTTERY.
Though England may send ns, with flourish tremendous,
The “beauties” that fake up a fame on her stage,
The “ firm ” will discover we’ve only one lover—
The “ Nellie” who holds xis like birds in a cage.
H CO.
Melbourne pressmen are talking of an amateur per-
formance. It is long since they had one—in fact, 2-1
years ago, nearly, for the Brooke Memorial, when they
acted “ London Assurance.” The last Press performance
was for the Akhurst fund, when “ The Rivals ” was acted.
The MacMahons’“ Fun on the Bristol” crowd arrived
in Sydney on Monday last, having started to work the
towns overland before the delay in the Bijou opening
caused B. and B. to make arrangements with the Macs,
and Sheridan for a postponement of their season. They
MR. F. W. L. ADAMS.
return to Melbourne by steamer to play a short season in
Maryborough and Castlemaine, and returning to Sydney
open at the Criterion on May 8.
The Sydney dailies give Richard 111. a third of a column
and a fourth respectively. Which would appear to indi-
cate that their theatrical criticism is not apportioned to
the merits of a performance, but according to the extent
of the yearly advertising-bill.
There are seven theatres going in Sydney at present:
the Royal, with quasi-comedy; Her Majesty’s, melo-
drama ; Criterion, comedy ; Opera House, musical comedy;
Gaiety, melodrama ; Standard, drama ; Haymarket, melo-
drama. Some one is bound to go to the wall.
Bland Holt has been doing good “ biz” at Ballarat with
‘‘ The Union Jack.”
Charles Wyndham drew £698 on Christmas Day at
M Wicker’s Theatre, Chicago.
The N.S.W. Literary and Debating Societies have a
smoke concert to-night (March 6) in the Sydney Catering
Company’s rooms.
In London Marylebone performance of “ Aladdin,”- the
Widow Twankey, on being told that, judged by her
pugilistic proclivities, she must have been married to a
fighting man, replies: “ It is unnecessary for me towed
Sullivan or Jackson : I’ve been Slavin all my life.”
Harry Rickards opened to £ll5 in Brisbane. He is
turning money away.
“ Bob ” Inman was missing from the Sydney Gaiety at
the beginning of the third week.
Mrs. Brown-Potter wears a thick, brown veil in the
street. No free entertainments for her.
Harry Raynor, of Raynor Brothers, the comedian and
instrumentalist, died at Staines on the Thames of con-
sumption on Jan. C.
The American photos, of Mrs. Potter and Bellevv, in
Collins-street, are superb—particularly of Mrs. Potter in
the historical Cleopatra, so that Garner is almost incited
to rake up the Hennings scenery of Miln’s revival, and put
it on for a week. A dress of dazzling resplendency is sur-
mounted by a teapot of jewels on Mrs. Potter’s cranium
with the spout in front. Bellow is wonderful at making
up. His London photos are the image of Irving, while
in New York he has reproduced Edwin Booth’s face almost
to a T as Marc Antony.
The Melbourne theatrical managers have decided, it is
said, to charge seven and sixpence for dress-circle seats in
future. Is there not room enough in the circles already
or do they imagine that those who “ circle” will continue
to do so no matter at what cost ?
Re the movement to raise funds for the widow (not
“ widows,” good Evenin’ Mormon) and orphans of the late
B. N. Jones, as a contemporary remarks, it is not known
that such a course is necessary. “8.N.” was a careful
man, was said to be “ warm,” and to have insured his life
considerably. The case of Allison’s children is more
necessitous. Fred, lliscocks is caring for the boy at pre-
sent, but he may not be always able to undertake such a
responsibility, and the girl also cannot be carefully reared
without money.
Poor suffering H. C. Sidney still lingers on the brink of
the grave. Thanks to Miss Alice Norton, Mr. and Mrs*
Rignold, Mr. and Mrs. Ridout, and others, his dying
pillow is as smooth as compassionate hands can make it.
The ever-popular Carrie Swain has retired from the
stage and taken up her abode in Sydney. She has made
a pile and so has her husband, Mr, Frank Gardiner.
Actor Raymond (America) tells a yarn of an accident
that once happened to him. In the middle of a long
apostrophe, the tittering of the audience caused him to
look,round just as he spoke of the “beauty of the virgin
moon now rising over the silent hills,” to'behold one half
of the lustrous orb slowly ascending, while the other half
was stranded on a mountain peak. When the curtain fell,
the whole company,went behind, aud damned the moon
and the whole solar system with great unanimity.
Mr. F. W. L. Adams.
Ij AT accorn Pbshed literary man, Mr. Francis
Adams, leaves for England this week on a health-
voyag’e, taking with him the sincere regards of
many friends and admirers in all the Australias.
Mr. Adams will, during his absence, continue to
contribute to the Australian press.
Labouchere says that Salisbury is a mere
synonym for liar.
„ What’s the matter with Marshall’s Tonic
Nervine? What’s the matter with it! Nothing;
It’s all right.
In 1889 the Melbourne Tramway and
Omnibus Company carried over 45,000,000 passen-
gers and had a revenue of £526,588.
No less than seven “lords,” “ladies,” and
“ honorables ” of one sort or another were dumped
down on the Sydney wharf by the s.s. Maranoaon
Monday morning.
It is stated that Miss Lacey, a girl of 16,
one of the doomed Quetta’s passengers, after the
wreck of the steamer clung to a raft for ten
hours and subsequently floated for 30 hours with-
out support. This seems incredible.
t L- Holt, late manager of the Bank of
New Zealand, Sydney, has been given a very
lucrative position of trust by k big financial cor-
poration, who reckon that a clever man is. not to
be counted right out because of one slip in life.
Captain Shaw, of the Hopeful, who, after
being sentenced to death, and then ordered to be
imprisoned for life, was released with the rest of
the Hopeful crew after five years’ imprisonment,
has been given an excellent position by one of the
steamship companies.
Had Pastor Jefferis postponed his trip to
England for a month and then taken the same
route by which he went, he would probably have
gone down in the Quetta. The finger of Provi-
dence is clearly discernible in the fact that the
well-advertised pastor escaped a watery grave.
But what an advertisement it would have been for
Pitt-street chapel!
The British and Foreign Bible Society
have issued during the 85 years of their existence
120,000,000 copies in 280 languages. We don’t see
much in this fact taking into consideration the
fact that the Evening Howl has an alleged yearly
circulation of 36,000,000, while the miserable
women who bind the Bibles are compelled to eke
out their miserable earnings on the streets.
Gov. Hopetoun, it has now come out, was
Deputy Grand-Master of the Orangemen in Scot-
land. And yet the once liberal Age made a fuss
when on his arrival in Victoria the Holy Roman
hierarchy didn’t flock to Government House to
weep upon his L.0.L.-ship’s neck. Why, it would
have been as -reasonable to expect the Pope to
invite teetotal Abigail to whisky-ahd-seltzer.
A Protective Association and Insurance,
1 inancial and General Estate Agency has been
formed in Sydney for the protection of “drivers.”
The company finds solicitors for litigant members,
lends money to pay fines, supplies vets, and medi-
cines free, insures horses and vehicles, and repairs
the latter, and buries deceased members when
necessary. For admission to participation in all
these benefits the fee is only 3s. and 2s. fid. per
month.
Queen Victoria s sole State office is the
affixing of her signature to documents. This could
be dqfie equally well by a rubber-stamp invested
at Westminster with the robes of royalty, the
crown and seeptre; in fact this has been done, for
during the later part of George IV.’s reign, when
that monarch was in such a “ debilitated state ”
that writing was impossible, a short Bill was
hurriedly passed through Parliament authorizing
the King to affix a facsimile of his autograph by
means of an inked stamp.
Editor Bulletin. —Dear Sir,—l have to
thank you expressly for bringing under my notice
Dr. Hyde’s remarks upon the character of
Father Damien. I shall take steps of a more
definite character ere long. But in the meantime,
it may interest you to learn that I repudiate some
of the statements and loathe the spirit of the
Doctor’s letter. It was certainly the work not of
Mr. Jekyll but of Dr. Hyde, I am, yours truly,
Robert Louis Stevenson, Sydney, March, 1880.
Mr. Gordon Stronach, for the last nine
years editor of the Town and Country Journal
has resigned his position with a view of working
in another sphere. Mr. Wall, the Journal’s
printer, who, over 30 years ago, was attached to
the then uncertain fortunes of the late Samuel
Bennett and the Empire, and who ever since has
worked for the Bennett family, has also left their
service—at a month’s notice or less. Which re-
minds ns that the I airfaxes are rieli and generous
enough to give pensions to all their old and faifit-
ful servants. Thus Mr. Frank Brewer, on retir-
ing from the Echo the other day, was awarded a
life-pension of £2OO annually. Dr. Garran, late
editor of the S.M. Herald, gets £5OO a year
And so with a number of others.
BLISS COMPLETE.
The moments speed like fairy gifts,
The sun is kindly bright,
As through the half-closed curtains sifts
The morning’s welcome light.
The air is balmy and serene,
Refreshing night’s repose;
The day is pleasant in each scene
And tranquil in its close :
There’s beauty passing on the street,
In lawn so close and neat; <
There’s poetry in all you meet,
Even in St. Louis Beer.


WOLFE’S SCHMAPPS!
£l2OO a year given away in Orders
Is superseding all other spirits.
Land at Perth, W.A., the best investment.
Plans from Intercolonial Investment Co., Ltd.,
!l(i Bathurstittreet, Sydney,
Bona-Fide announcement. Highest cash price
given for all kinds of gent’s left off clothing.
Dress-suits for sale or hire. Letters promptly
attended to by QJJITTENTON BROS., 11l
>{ ifs-cll stmt, MELBOURNE. {New number.
Morgan's Leg.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
His name was Matthias Morgan on Sundays, on
week-days he was content with plain Mat. or
Matty. He was a small, florid individual with
brick-dust-hued hair, and a pinched face always
puckered into a look of superhuman cuteness ; he
had abundant eyebrows all brushed up against the
grain and growing round corners, a cocked-up
nose, and an upper-lip that defied description and
competition, for it occupied two-thirds of his face
to the loss and discomfiture of the other features,
and resembled an inverted Dutch oven or an
arched verandah. Matty was a spry, lively little
man. with a thick influenzated brogue that he
brought out from the old country with him, and
which climatic influences could never impair. He
also came fitted with a series of orthodox religious
convictions, against which advanced thought and
latter-day scepticism hurled their shafts and
marshalled their arguments in vain. He possessed
besides some peculiar theological notions belong-
ing to no particular creed nor sect, the effects of
an ardent imagination and sadly neglected in-
tellect.
Mr. Matthias Morgan was a platman at the old
Australasian mine, Creswiek (Vic.), and, though
small and seemingly fragile, lie could dance round
a truck of dirt with the strongest man that ever
pulled a knocker ; but one night, when coming up
from afternoon shift, something was let go and the
cage in which Matty and three faceman were
riding went to the bottom again with a sudden-
ness that permitted of neither prayer nor prepara-
tion. Mr. Morgan was subsequently withdrawn
Srom amongst the wreckage, and forwarded to the
hospital in a very damaged condition ; a few of
his ribs were twisted out of gear, his left leg was
fractured, and he was otherwise impaired.
After giving the crushed leg time to manifest
tendencies one way or the other, the doctors went
into committee, and solemnly agreed that, as there
were indications of something virulent setting in,
it would be advisable to sever Matty’s connection
with that limb, and the painful truth was broken
to the sufferer as gently as possible. Matty was
a very fluent swearer. He swore vividly on all
occasions that seemed to eall for some show of
feeling on his part. He was weakened by pain
and loss of blood when the impression that he
must be separated from a leg with which he had
all his life been on terms of the closest intimacy
dawned upon him, but he struggled manfully to
do justice to the occasion, and relapsed into pro-
fanity. His voice was feeble and his energies
crippled, but he ranged over a great variety of
heterodox phrases, and seemed to find relief ; and
then he beckoned to the medicos, and whispered
in a still, small voice :
“ Och, Moses ! Oi’ll doi widout it, but, if ye
can’t cure me wid it, yez can saw it off, an’ th’
blessed saints have mercy on it. Amen !”
With the assistance of anaesthetics the wrecked
member was removed from high up, and Mat.
returned to consciousness feeling considerably un-
hinged and off his balance. There was a dim,
hazy, unsatisfactory ghost of a leg on the site of
the substantial limb from which he was now
parted for the first time. Mat. was naturally a
soft-hearted man, and the sense of desolation that
came over him caused him again to open out into
plain and fancy swearing, which occupied his
thoughts till the arrival of the doctor. '
“Whisht, sor !” whispered Matty, as the artist
of the saw and scalpel bent over his bed, “ will ye
be afther attendin’ th’ wake th’ noight, sor?”
“ Wake! which wake ?” queried the surgeon.
“ Whoi, th’ wake av me leg t’ be sure.”
“Hang it all, man! you surely don’t expect
your friends to > honour a leg with a wake ?”
Matty was astounded at the terribly low tone of
morality and lack of Christian feeling displayed
in this remark, and when he got his second wind
he gasped :
“ Och ! docthor, ye wouldn’t be afther buryin’
a dacent, good Catholic leg loike a hathen widout
a shraall bit av a ruction, wnd yc, now?”
The doctor grinned, but having no arguments
to advance, and being himself somewhat doubtful
as to the seat of the soul, he did not attempt to
controvert his patient’s peculiar notions, but con-
tinued his business in silence. Mat., however,
entertained strong opinions regarding the eternal
well-being of that severed limb, and the more he
thought about it the more preposterous and here-
tical seemed the idea of burying it “loike a
Choinee without the customary forms and
formalities attendant on the obsequies of an able-
bodied man from the ould sod. He swore a great
deal as he pondered on the impiety of the thing,
and pleaded his case so earnestly with the resident
surgeon at every opportunity, that, for the sake of
the patient’s physical status, he at length consented
to hand the leg over to Mr. Morgan’s hut-mate,
Bat Crowley, to be duly “ waked,” strictly stipu-
lating that the limb be returned to the hospital
intact in the morning.
So Mat’s leg was well and truly “waked” that
night in the hut of Morgan and Crowley, and Mat.
lay away in the hospital bod, blandly peaceful in
the consciousness that the “bhoys”were having
a high old time over his inanimate remains, and
laying the whisky waste in approved style, and,
perchance, taking it out of each other' accord-
ing to custom and precedent. It was just as plea-
sant and affable a wake, Terry Clark remarked,
“as if Mat. hissilf was kilt intoirly, instid av bein’
jest half dead !” The leg was well and truly laid
out, and the company bid for the liquors with
great spirit; and, when things grew hot and in-
volved, and party politics were introduced, and
Rafferty hit Bat on the jaw with a knuckle of ham,
and Clark engaged in a lively and congenial mill
on the floor with Steve Finny, and Andy Martin
danced round, and whooped, and hit every head
that showed up through the general melee, there
are reasons for believing the deceased limb was
utilized as a club to quell the disturbance and
unship Bat Crowley’s left shoulder-blade. Any-
how, the leg was brought to the hospital next
morning by a policeman, who explained to Mat.
that most of the party had been locked up for riot-
ous and insulting behaviour, which satisfied the
patient that his friends had really done everything
in their power to give his poor leg an honourable
send-off, and, in gratitude, he made a mental
resolve to get locked up for such of them as should
be “waked” within his reach, and moreover to
cripple the arresting constable and tear his uni-
form.
“ Docthor,” said Mr. Morgan, when the police-
man had gone, “Oi’m feelin’ shplendid well
th’ day. Shure, will Oi be fit t’ ’tend th’ funeral ?”
“Funeral! the devil! You’ll never attend
another funeral but your own, if you don’t keep
just as still and cool as an ice-pack. Who’s dead ?”
Och ! yer talkin’ ! Me leg’s dead, av coorce—
cut off in its prime, loike—an Oi’d be afther havin’
a dacent buryin’, wid Father Hennessey up in
front, an’ th’ Hoibernian Society all follyin’
behind.”
“Nonsense ! nonsense, my good sir ! That’s all
contrary to regulations ; this institution is not
prepared to go to expense over the obsequies of a
limb that is absolutely of no consequence and has
no prospects of an after life. We’ll just plant it
down in the garden somewhere, and save time and
money.”
“ Fwhat d’ye say ?” Matty had drawn himself
up almost to a sitting position, and his eyes stuck
out like excrescences on a melon. “ Fwhat’s that ?
Trow me leg away loike a ham-bone! Arrah !
bad cess t’ ye !” and Matthias tailed off into a long
string of inarticulate profanity, and subsided into
a pitiable state of mental,confusion and settled
melancholy.
So the authorities were not permitted to dis-
pose of that leg according to the dictates of their
own.blunted consciences and irreligious suscepti-
bilities, without violent opposition and energetic
protests from the original owner. Matty forgot
all about his wounds and weakness, and after
measuring the situation, sat up in a whirl of
righteous indignation, and advanced objection to
everybody concerned, who came within hearing.
He said he wasn’t going to have a limb of his
abandoned like a native bear and earthed up with-
out a prayer, or anything religious, to guarantee a
speedy resurrection. It that leg was not buried in
consecrated grounds, with all formal rites, it
would be damned irretrievably, and then nice he’d
look, hopping round Paradise on one leg while his
other leg was roasting in Sheol.
The doctor was not much affected by this view
of the case, but Mr. Morgan’s sore mental agita-
tion gave him a good deal of concern, and he un-
derstood it would be necessary to humour the
patient or prepare for fatal consequences ; so he
promised Matty that his leg should be buried with
all the pomp and circumstance of woe, and receive
the comforts of religion and last solemn orthodox
ordinances, A man had died in the hospital the
day before, and Matthias was told that his limb
would be packed in with deceased, and the parson
would be engaged to preside over the consignment
as a job lot.
“ An’ ye’ll git his riv’rence t’ make special
mintion av me leg, will ye ? ’ queried Matty, much
mollified.
t}BS{3E ®' a
-f he medico promised anything that would tend
to his patient’s peace and comfort, and Mat sub-
sided into a state of lethargy, and remained
quiescent for many days.
When he was discharged from the hospital, and
a bl e to frolic round on a piece of timber, Matty
used to pufc in a good dea j of time at the local
ceme tery, and took a lot of pains to keep the
Rrave o{ his leg green and in creditable order,
The Australasian Co. had installed him as searcher,
so that he was free the greater part of the day,
and he i iked to s i t by the grave and ponder over
psyc hologic problems about which he had the
* rudest ideas, while he nightlv tried to induce
Fat } ler Hennessey to pray for the repose of that
„.
. .
~ le «g fch > h< TTW xr SU9 P ICIO " S , b f- an °
the mind of Mr. Morgan ; doubts as to
the integrity of the man with whom h,s limb was
interred took possession of him. and made him
restless and uneasy. He would stand for horn s
over the mound sadly speculating on the proba-
bilities of his leg having got into dishonest hands,
-™ d * he necessity of securing the salvation of the
other occupant oi the grave became appaient to
him Mat. began prosecuting inquiries and one
night the hospital committee when sitting m
meeting had its deliberations interrupted by a
violent, little, one-legged man w 10 bioke down
all barriers, and fought his way throng i eveij
resistance, and rushed furiously into the room,
brandishing a crutch.
By and by two or three committeemen came out
from under the table where they had retired in
order to be able to view the fray in a calm, im-
biassed frame of mind, and took the intruder
from behind and laid him low, and the fattest
gentlemen present were induced to sit upon him
and restrain and soothe him with philosophical
observations and the softest words that turn away
wrath, while the rest went for a policeman.
“ Bad luck t’ ye all !” yelled Matty, when a
corpulent publican got off his chest and gave him
vent to his feelings. “ A plague on ye ! whoi did
ye do it? Ye dirty, crawlin’ bla’kg’rds, ye ! whoi
did ye do it ?”
“Do what, my good man?” murmured the
chairman in a conciliatory tone, “ who lilt you ? ’
“ Ye know, ye thafe ! yez buried me leg wid a
Prodestan’ ! Lave me up till I bate yeh ! Lave
me up!”
They held him down more energetically than
ever, and advanced pretty arguments about the
immateriality of mundane legs in the life to come,
and told him how much more necessary was a
gentle and forgiving spirit than mere legs to the
attainment of full and complete salvation ; but
Matty refused to be comforted, and broke out
with renewed violence and wrath, and fought the
committee all over the floor ; he prodded a hole
in the Mayor of the town with his timber limb,
shifted a prominent resident’s ear, and covered all
present with confusion, dust, and bruises. A
policeman was announced at last, and with the
assistance of the committee, two carters, and a
dray, succeeded in conveying Mr. Morgan to the
lockup.
Matty was called upon to pay damages and find
sureties that he would keep the peace for two
years, so that whenever he met the hospital doctor
or a committeeman on the street, he had to go and
hang on to a .fence, or put his head in a horse-
trough or do something else to repress his emotions
and cool his choler. His good leg—the leg he
esteemed so highly—was buried with a hopeless
Protestant, and he felt he would never see that
limb again. They had been brought up together,
he and that leg, and had trodden the same path
of rectitude and peace—had been reared in the
same faith, and now the beloved member was
buried according to the rites of a false creed and
held in trust by a heretic whose previous character
pointed to the conclusion that he would not hesi-
tate to appropriate it to his own use in the event
of a resurrection. Matthias was in a bad state of
mind —melancholy had marked him for her own,
and he constantly pegged about the cemetery
under a continuous mental strain. He appealed
to Father Hennessey to use his sacerdotal influence
to convert the late lamented Protestant to the
only true faith, but that gentleman declined the
contract at the price mentioned, and Mat. was
bordering on distraction, when, one afternoon, as
he was brooding gloomily over the grave, the hos-
pital doctor came strolling down a path and
accosted him.
“ Well, Morgan !” cried the doctor, “swearing a
prayer or two for the speedy resurrection of that
deceased leg, eh ?”
Matty remembered his bonds, and relieved him-
self by probing a tombstone with its oaken sub-
stitute.
“If you are,” continued the doctor, “you’re a
fool for your pains. ”
“A fool is it Oi am? Bad cess to yer ugly
face!” gasped Matty. “It’s a foine angel ye’d
have me, flyin’ round glory there wid only wan
leg!”
“Well, the fact is, you’re praying over a man
who does not deserve and would not appreciate
your attentions, that’s all. Your leg is up in my
study.”
“Fwhat?” whispered Morgan, sinking down on
a neighbouring grave and staring blankly at the
medico, “d’ ye mane t’ say me leg ain’t wid
Stevens down there?”
“I do.”
“An’ ye have it ?”
“I have. I was experimenting with a new pro-
cess of embalming, and used your leg, seeing that
it was of no further service to you, and that its
eternal welfare would not be affected by the
chemicals. It is beautifully pickled, and you are
welcome to it. If you like to call up this after-
noon you can take it away.”
Matty called that afternoon and secured his
long-lost limb. It was smoked and twisted be-
yond recognition, but Matthias didn’t mind that
much. He determined not to bury it at all, but
to keep it by him agin the time when they miglvt
go down to the grave together. He bought a
glass-case, in which he kept the “ preserved ’’limb,
and when, a few years later, he married Widow
Ryan, that embalmed leg, in its natty case, was
one of their most interesting parlour ornaments
and an article of bric-a-brac that excited the ad-
miration of all their friends and acquaintances.
EDWARD DYSON.
A London glass-eye maker says that
people who are blind in one eye insist that they
see better when the cavity is tilled with an arti-
ficial eye.
To Melbourne Public Library in 1856
there came 23,709 visitors. The number of volumes
was 3840. In 1888 the visitors numbered 405,390
and the books 114,868, apart from pamphlets, &c.
The Typhoid Fiend grovels to rank. In
the humbler walks of life he lays low the head of
the household, but when, as last week in Mel-
bourne, he finds his way into Government House,
he lays his hot hand on an inoffensive and buxom
laundry-maul probably the only useful article of
furniture thereabouts.
A Chinaman has taken first prize for
butter at the N.Z. Exhibition.
A bailiff put into a Sydney hotel the other
day for £2O, was paid off in copper. It took him
until a late hour to count it, and, having no safe
place of deposit, ho then drove down in a cab to
Woolloomooloo lock up, where it was taken in on
a charge of “drunk, using obscene lankwitch
and tarin’ me uniform.”
The young ladies of London Collegiate
School are divided into two parties—the “ stay-as-
it-is”and the anti-corsets. There is also a third
party, who wear stays but abjure tight-lacing.
They recently held an athletic contest to decide
the matter, when a high leap, a long leap, tug-of-
war and a foot-race were brought off. The non-
corsets won everything, including the long leap
with a jump of 12ft. This is about 12ft. behind
the male record. Moral: Women should also
abjure petticoats.
Writes a correspondent:—There is much
talk in London over “Robbery Under Arms,”
and indeed Boldrewood challenges Kingsley for
the next place to Marcus Clarke, and embodies
Frith’s painting of Claude Duval. But the
charm is somewhat smacking of “Jack Sheppard ”
and “ Rookwood,” with “Turpin’s Ride to Yc rk,”
a faint spice of the yaller-covered novel, “ Ned
Kelly the Ironclad Bushranger,” and “Lola
Montes.” “Robbery Under Arms ” and “Captain
Swift ” are equally clever and refined, yet each
bearing a Robert Maoairish taste on the palate.
Dear Bulletin, — Captain William Russell
Russell, M.H.R., Hawke’s Bay, N.Z., and dele-
gate to the late Federation Conference, has repre-
sented Hawke’s Bay for years, and is known in
his pastoral paradise by the sobriquet of “ Ele-
phant Bill.” At one election the “ long ’un ” was
beaten by three votes by one Fred. Sutton, of
Royston, an old Napier storekeeper, who laid up
treasures on earth by selling rum to Maoris.
When the result of that poll became .known there
was weeping and wailing and the sound as of
strong men in strong drink on the Heretaunga
Plains. Captain Russell is a popular man, although
he parts his hair in the middle, sports an eye-
glass, and says “ haw ” in a confoundedly irritat-
ing manner. His losing the election alluded
to above was attributed to his persistence in
wearing “home” clothes, the Maorilanders being
Protectionists in sentiment and averse to colonial
swells arraying themselves in British broadcloth
when good colonial tweed was procurable. He’s a
great man at “practical” education, and every
year gives a sewing-machine (to be competed for
in the Hawke’s Bay public schools) to the girl who
:-an cut and make the best plain nightgown
“without frills,” and another to the girl who
wrestles with the greatest amount of success in
re-seating a well-worn pair of pants. It’s a sight
for the gods to witness “ Elephant Bill ” inspect-
ing the exhibits through his confounded eye-glass
and saying “Haw !” Still he’s a real good sort,
and if I’d run up against him while he was this
side of the Herring Pond I’d have stuck him for a
fiver.— Bakblox.
Rescued From Madness.
“ The power of God sets bounds to the raging of the
sea, and restrains the madness of the people.”
King Charles.
Mad, exclaims a modern writer, is one of those
words which mean almost everything and nothing,
and indeed, among the afflictions to which human
life is subject, the loss of reason is the most
calamitous of all. There is nothing more appall-
ing to the refined feelings than a man endowed with
intellect, whose reason gave way under the
weight of accumulated woe. His ideas are
dissevered, his attachments perhaps converted
into hatred. Deprived of the faculty by which
man is distinguished from the beasts that
perish, the human form is frequently the
most remarkable attribute that he retains of
his proud distinction, and that form labouring un-
der mental aberration soon gives way to all forms
of bodily grievances. More frequently still, bodily
disease proves the precursor of insanity. It is
known that sleeplessness has been the forerunner
of disease of the brain, and too close application to
study has unhinged many a strong intellect in
weakened frames. Though happily a small per-
centage of suffering mankind is smitten with de-
rangement of the mental faculties, yet many cases
are on record where man’s intellect became impli-
cated secondarily and gave way under the strain
of severe bodily affliction. A case in point is that
of Mr. M. W. Hale, of Bel tana, S.A., who relates
his fearful experiences, and his rescue from mad-
ness, in the following grateful sentences :—“From
long residence in the bush and its attending priva-
tions, such as want of suitable food, I got into a
bad state of health, until my mental faculties
became quite disordered, which I have no doubt
originated from kidney troubles. While in this dis-
tressing condition, Warner’s Safe Cure was brought
into the house for another member of our family,
but Providence, I believe, prompted me to take
some of it. After using the medicine the kidneys
resumed their proper action, the water literally
poured from my throat and the back of my neck.
I am happy to say I have again perfect control
of my actions, and often return thanks to God and
next to Mr. Warner, for your medicine does more
than you claim for it, it gives back what is more
valuable than life itself, viz., man’s reason. ” Mrs.
Walter Muir, Mornington, Dunedin, N.Z., volun-
teers the following startling evidence: —“Three
years ago, my son, aged 25, while attending the
wedding of a relative at Clinton, broke a blood
vessel, and was brought home in a dying state.
We did not expect that he would survive, and the
Sacrament was administered to him. He was in
an utter state of collapse. I do not. think
he could have rallied but for the use of War-
ner’s Safe Cure, which imparted great strength
to his weakened body, and with the aid
of which, after the use of 6 bottles, my son re-
covered his strength. My husband had been in
bad health for some time, but, influenced by the
sudden illness of my son, surrounded by its pecu-
liar circumstances, seemed so heavily to prey upon
him as to unhinge his mind. He became extremely
violent, and though for some time in the Asylum
he did not leave the institution by any means a
sane man, but broken down in body and mind.
He now tried the effects of Warner’s Safe Cure
and Safe Pills, which I had procured for him,
and we soon found him gaining strength bodily
and mentally. When my husband had consumed
10 bottles of Warner’s Safe Cure, with a few phials
of Warner’s Safe Pills, he had completely reco-
vered from his physical infirmities, and with his
restoration to health, his reason had returned.”


*•8
T
d
2>
Celebrated
m
m
e.
yfpifswi
I*
oJ
ojmjW
ď
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
Write for plans £lO Building sites, Perth,
Western Australia. Intercolonial Investment
Company, Limited, 96 Bathurst street, Sydney,
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
BUGGIES, BUCKBOARDS,
—AND
victorias,
At MANUFACTURERS’ PRICES
Send for Catalogues and Prices to
THE F. B. WHEELER CO.,
265 Clarence Street. SYDNEY.
Personal Items.
The new Lord Cairns was employed in the
Armsfong gun-factory.
Supreme Court Judgeßoucaut (S. A.) wants
to know “ Who believes in the Bible ?”
It is stated that W. A. Horn, M.P., Lord
Kintore’s chum, will be knighted before long.
Stanley declares that in the course of his
latest African ravages ho saw the Mountains of
the Moon.
L. Cohen, M.P., the melodious-voiced
Mayor of A delaide, was at one time a prominent
official in Fiji.
Of the official and non-elective members
of the Mixed Victorian Legislative Council of
1851, not one now lives.
Parkes gave Abigail a letter of introduc-
tion to someone at “’Ome ” “ under the seal of
the colony.” But to whom?
E. T. Smith has been five times Mayor of
Adelaide. J. T. of the same family was Seven
times Mayor of Melbourne.
The Prince of Wales has given up keep-
ing racehorses. The racehorses have also given
up keeping the Prince of Wales,
Melbourne Herald lately gave its readers
the picture of a woman who suicided by drowning
as that of the now celebrated Mrs. Sornner.
I would not give my ’Airy P
For all your great finaneiers going.
He knows the way to do the shark*,
What he don’t owe is not worth owing.
Lord Salisbury, we read, did not approve
of the Abyssinian war. “ Are we,” he asked,
“ going to tight for one mad consul and three
drunken sailors?”
The “ Vagabond ” says that Father Hen-
nebery “ cursed him from the altar.” Well, sup-
pose he did. Hasn’t the “ Vag.” read the
“ Jackdaw of Rheims ?”
The oldest practising attorney in Victoria
is F. J. S. Stephen, the Melbourne city solicitor
(a relative of Sir Alfred Stephen’s), who has been
“ at it ” in Melbourne since 1846.
The latest deceased American millionaire
is Rockefeller, one of the Pennsylvanian oil men,
and he cuts up for £5,000,000 sterling. Better
than silver is oil in millionaire-making.
Giddings, musical critic of the Adelaide
Advertiser, when doing the Colonial and Indian
Exhibition for that paper, was mistaken by an
Irish crowd for Tim Healey. “ The crowd cheered
vociferously. ”
Tom Playford (S.A.) has a signature that
nearly fills up a »heet of paper by itself. Cock-
burn’s signature is like Parkes’—very indistinct.
It looks for all the world like “John A. Chilblain.”
Parkes’ reads “Porkes.”
The most cheeky and shameless self-adven-
tiser in the whole world is the eternally-puffed
Mrs. Frank Leslie, who “ gammons to be clever.”
Her very latest inspired puff is a description of
her fair self as “ Beauty in the Bath.”
It is rumoured that Captain Neitenstein,
of the Vernon training-ship, is to be the new
governor of Darlinghurst Prison. Captain N. has
friends enough to get him the position over the
heads of all the officers in the Department.
The Sydney newspapers say that the first
sentence passed by Air. Justice Manning was a
death-sentence. This is not so. His Honor has
gone Circuit before now and boasts of having
passed the second longest sentence on colonial
record.
A Californian judge recently achieved a
great reputation for inpartiality bv fining himself
ten dollars for drunkenness. He was a mere
plagiarist. A Victorian police magistrate osten-
tatiously fines himself whenever he is late for
court.
At the Bajamayo banquet Emin Pasha
said to a fellow-guest: “I have this evening been
brought quite out of my usual routine. For 15
years I have not touched wine.” Five minutes
after he stepped out of the window and fractured
his skull.
The father of Andrew Hume, the unhappy
explorer who alleged he had found Leichhardt’s
remains and then lost his life in attempting to
bring them from the Far North West, is still
ahve in West Maitland (N.S.W.), a hale man of
86 years.
A Marcus Clarke has turned up as a pawn-
broker’s assistant inMelbourne. Another Marcus
Clarke run* a Sydney drapery. The original
Marcus was of considerable assistance to pawn-
brokers. at various times, although his services
were not adequately rewarded.
Gov. Kiutore’s two sons are to be sent to
England to complete their studies, after which
they will no doubt drop into snug billets furnished
at the expense of the British (or “ colonial ”) tax-
payer. In ten or eleven years we «hall hear them
yelling for Imperial Federation.
A London daily paper asks :
Why was not the late Mrs. Fitz-Qeorge, the wife of the
Duke of Canlbiidge, called the Duchess of Cambridge v
And why was she called Mrs. Fitz-George ? And why are
ner children called by the same name ? These are ques-
tions affecting British royalty and British morality.
John the Canadian “grand
old man,” recently attained his 75th birthday.
Lie is a great church-goer, and divides his atten-
tion equally between the Revivalists and the High
Lhurch party. Ho is a great reader, 5 a glutton
tor work and never smokes ; like Mr. Gladstone,
ne is well looked after by his wife.
Mr. Justice Dowling (not the jokist of
to-day, but his father), sitting in criminal juris-
diction at Sydney on 23rd September, 1829, sen-
tenced a prisoner convicted of stealing a pair of
oars, to be imprisoned for one calendar month,
and on the last day of his imprisonment to bo
publicly whipped from the police-office to the
King-street Wharf.”
It is stated that the great melancholy and
depression of spirits of the Prince of Wales has
passed away, “ but merely to give place to a calm
reserve and coldness which is indeed strange to
remark in the whilom ‘ pal ’of ‘ Joey ’ Aylesfoxxl,
Buppy, ’ and others of that joyous gang.” It is
prophesied that Tummy’s reign, if he ever has
one, will be a time of gloom.
Chatto and Windus have lately published
a new edition of T. B. O Connor’s “ Life of
Beaoonsfield. ” Disraeli was once asked “if he
had read O’Connor's ‘scurrilous life.’” “Yes,”
Slid Beajqnsfield, with his usual coolness. “I
have read it. But why do you call it scurrilous ?
ls Quite true.” Dizzy was honest enough not to
lie to hmnelf concerning himself.
. A very old Victorian pioneer has just died
tm ,V o,ldon ’. Bady Palmer, who came to Port
I hilhp, with her husband, in 1839. Sir James
was a medical man, but gave up Ids profession to
H e ’Il f. public house. He was the first speaker of
the Mixed Gounod, in 1851. and first President of
the Bogus ative Council, under the new Constitu-
from 1806 to 1870, when he resigned.
Little Mirams generously offered to
straighten up the books of the Premier Building
Society for no liing and yet they didn’t jump at
the chance. By the way, a Melbourne paper pub-
lislied a 0103 k” of Mirams last week, under the
heading of “People Talked About.” Which
makes us wonder what is the very latest they can
be saying about that remarkable little man. ‘
Mrs. Maybrick’s mother states that the
lady who gave the “ old man ” arsenic for the sake
of her complexion is not feeling at all well in
prison. She is down-hearted, as it were, and
every time her dear mamma comas to the grating
poor Mrs. Maybrick puts her head against the wall
of the cell and weeps bitterly. Her only consola-
tion is the thought that Maybrick may be having
a good time in Heaven.
Queen Victoria has decorated Lieutenant
Stairs and Dr. Parke, in recognition of their recent
valuable services in Africa. The strong point
about Stairs is his “ready apprehension of the
orders received from Stanley. Stairs doesn’t
require instructions before going on the shoot. If
Stanley whispers “Niggers!” his faithful lieu-
tenant blazes away at the poor devils until their
ancient tribe is exterminated.
A London paper on oar deceased friend,
“ Gumboil ” : —“ He wasn’t much of a racket and
did not take his pleasures in the company of
comic actors, sharpers, or loafers. Private Secre-
tary to the Dwke of Richmond, he did his best in
the Board of Trade Office, but his want of “go ”
handicapped him, and his only claim* to fame rest
orr his undeniable powers as a waltzer and the
famous breach of promise case. ”
Davies, the V ictorian Speaker, was created
a plain, simple, straightforward knight, it seems.
Not a K.C.M.G. or anything involving letters
after his name—but merely a ‘.‘Sir,” before his
name. Poor Burdett -Smith, we gather from the
delightful Court Circular, is an “Ordinary
Member of the Third Class ” of the St. M. and
St. G. arrangement. What we want to get at are
thti exact widths of the social gulfs dividing
Burdett Smith from Davies, and Davies from a
duke.
POLITICAL PIONTS
Grim, dingy old Kossuth has been saying
the Australians mean to be independent. The
Australians won’t he independent. They haven’t
the pluck. Well, show the proof ?
“Jack” Haynes declares that be “would
fight South Sydney to-morrow with as much
readiness as he would light Mudgee. ” Yes, and
with an equally poor chance of success.
Lord Hope to un has expressed a wish that
at the close of his term of office Australia will be
united under a federal Government. His Excel-
lency is not in a hurry to be hoisted out.
At the Conference. From a Melbourne
paper: “ I shall produce,” said Sir Henry, “but
one witness—George Washington.” “ Enough,”
said a gallery-auditor, “ he never told a lie.”
The Queensland Investment Company has
not discontinued its suits against MTlwraith.
They are coming on, and Mao will light. Lively
times are expected, and the lawyers will hare a
big throw-in.
Kingston, nominal loader of the S.A.
Opposition, stands a good show of losing his seat
“A SOFT ANSWER, &c.”
MR. GRACE CHURCH (to Brown, who has broken his axe-handle and is swearing vigorously):
“AH! MR. BROWN, IT IS VEWY WONG TO SWEAH! THE GOOD
DOCTOR JOHNSON SAYS ‘A MAN WHO SWEAHS IS ONE OF
STRONG FEELINGS AND A LIMITED VOCABULARY.’”
MR. BROWN (a “ free” selector) : “WELL, I DIDN’T HAPPEN TO KNOW THE
DOCTOR, BUT IT STRIKES ME 'THAT YE’RE A MAN OF WEAK
FEELINGS AND AN UNLIMITED VOCABULARY.”
at the forthcoming elections. Moulden (Attorney-
Ceneral) and Burgoyne (Commissioner of Crown
Lands) will, almost for a certainty, be rejected.
Tasmania lias a little pension-list too. At
the head stands the ex-Chief Justice, Sir Francis
Smith, with £lOOO. At the bottom Miss varah
Hayes Wright, an ex-school teacher, with the
princely sum of £3 6s. Bd. a year, payable monthly.
In January, 1871, Sir James Martin, then
N.SAV Premier, wrote Charles Cavan Duffy
t.ms : “So long as these Australian communities
remain British colonies, I do not think any advan-
tage whatever would be derived by a federal
union.”
Une of Albury’s leading citizens has written
to a local paper suggesting that the Municipal
Council should request Gillies (why not Parkes ?)
to proclaim A|bnry the capital of the Federated
Dominion. This is a very premature chicken-
muster.
At the annual banquet of a Sydney com-
pany, held the other evening, the toast of “the
Queen ” was proposed as a formality that could
not be passed over, it was welcomed by one cheer
and, so far as the writer could observe, no glass
was elevated.
The toast of the United Australian States
with a wish for the coming of Federation under
Republican rule, received loud cheers at the
shearers’ Conference, Bourke, while “ the Queen ”
was drunk without enthusiasm and in many cases
with dissent.
The N.S. W. shearers shear with Chinkies,
The Queensland shearers don’t. We mention this
only so that Henry G. may use it as a text whereon
to hang a dissertation on the blessings of Free*
trade, and on the general narrowness that accom-
panies a tendency to Protection.
Gov. ll ipetoun received an address from
the Victorian Licensed Victuallers’ Association
the other day, and expressed himself as extremely
gratified by the exuberant expressions of loyalty
to the Queen which it contained. There’s always
a deal too much froth about “ colonial ” beer.
England is making a nation of Portugal,
andiuny we hear that a million sterling is sub-
scribed in Lisbon towards national defence. A
Conservative English Government deliberately
makes an enemy of France, which will insist on
i ortugal becoming a republic to cement an
alliance.
liierc are strong indications that Chief
Justice Lilley, of Queensland, who is entitled to re-
tirement this year, will step down from the bench
and return to politics. If lie does, Griffith will have
to brace up not to be out of it altogether, as Lilley
is a Radical of the Radicals and a politioan who
never feared riding for a fall.
Thus the Times :
The introduction of penny postage is peculiar for the
phenomenon that it cannot be said to have trampled upon
any vested interests.
I his accounts for the scheme receiving the support
ot the limes. No millionaire duke being affected,
it must be all right.
J- L. Parsons, who has just resigned as
Government Resident of the Northern Territory,
is a parliamentary candidate at next S. A. election.
1 arsons was at one time a Baptist clergyman in
Adelaide, and denounced the ungodly. He now
proposes to consort with them in Parliament.
What a ghastly list of parsons have left the
Church for Parliament via the Press !
Her Majesty has intimated her willing-
ness to send a scion of the Royal Family as
Governor-General to IVlerated Australia,” says
the cable. Whom would she send ? Her grandson
with the parboiled brains, “Cuffs and Collars,”
He would make am excellent figure-
head for a Chinese laundry, and Australia will be
jit for nothing better when she consents to receive
him.
The House of Commons ha* decided to
cover up the aristocratic Cleveland-street horrors.
Only 6(5 members voted for Labouchere’s motion
for the appointment of a commission of enquiry ;
20(J had the Gomorrahn brazenness to vote against
the motion, and 3U7 carefully stayed away from
the House on an occasion which, with these figures
before us, must be held to do full justice to the
traditions of the House of Hanover. ,
Said Marshal MacMahou, alluding to the
historical refusal of the Comte de Chambord 10
accept the throne of France unless the flag ot the
ancien i time went with it; “If the white flag
were to be hoisted in opposition to the tri-color,
and if the latter were ever raised opposite to the
former, the chassepots would go off by them-
selves,’ in other words civif war would break out.
See the last weekly edition of the London
. imes, 25th Jan., for four columns on the Indian
. J ative Parliament, or Congress, at Bombay, one
< the most suggestive and far-stretching articles
we have ever read. There were 2000 representa-
tives, all elected, and 0000 spectators, in an
immense building. r l he object is to undermine
Lnglish supremacy. Contemptuous persons say
the Congress is only of educated Hindoos, but
2000 educated revolutionary Hindoos are danger-
ous barrels of gunpowder.
By cable :
Dr. Barry, ex-Primate of Australia, delivered a lecture
on Socialism at Lambeth last night. The lecture was con-
cluded amidst a piokmged and turbulent wrangle amongst
the audience, and Hi hop Barry’s repl es to questions were
not heard in consequence of the hooting of those present.
We heard the bishop lecture at St. James’, Syd-
ney, one Sunday afternoon on “Socialism in
relation to Christianity,” and the impression left
on our mind was that, if he had the courage of his
opinions, the honest pluck to brave public opinion
and possible poverty, he would have declared him-
self a Socialist and renounced the Church.
Sir George Grey pretends to think that
half of Australia nas got to be coloured, and that
New Zealand, as an island, had better keep to it-
self to keep white. The Bulletin would like to
know if this is the result of the old man’s reported
experiments on his own island, and also whether
he intends to shift his quarters to the particular
half of Australia that has got to be coloured. Un-
less he is, and unless a batch of Imperialistic
mgger-lovers are going to keep him company,
there’s hope for the whole continent yet. The
solemn fact is that the very first article in the
Australian Republican Constitution will set forth
that Australia is to be solely for the white man.
If not, the history of the United States will be
thrown away on a parcel of Australian fools.
Mark Twain takes much pleasure in the
society of a black oat whom he has christened
Satan. We once had a screw-tailed bull-pup
named Satan, the ugliest dog in Sydney—or, for the
matter of that, south of the line. In the long run
Satan took to sleeping alongside of The Bulletin
waste-paper basket while we wrote copy, and one
day when Rev. John Alexander Dowie came and
coarsely abused us and said he was on his way to
his solicitor’s to issue libel-writs, Satan arose,
opened one eye, and went up the street at the heels
of Dowie, to whose person he seemed inclined to
thereafter attach himself. Whereupon we captured
Satan and shipped him off to his godfather at
Rockhampton.
Says “ RoL.' Boldrewood,” in the Aus-
tralasian of February 8, in an article on “Old
Stockriders”:—
I may stop here to state that “ Clancy of the Overflow,”
quoted by a writer who signs himself “Banjo,” which
appeared lately, is, in my opinion, the best bush-ballad
since Gordon. It has the true ring of spur and snaffle,
combined with poetic treatment—a conjunction not so
easy of attainment as might be supposed.
We have- much pleasure in informing Mr. “Bol-
drewood ” that “Clancy of the Overflow ” was not
merely “quoted” but was originally written by
“The Banjo” (a modest young man of Sydney,
and author, by the way, of “ Old Pardon, the Son
of Reprieve ”) for last Christmas number of The
Bulletin.


AN INDUCEMENT TO FEDERATION.
AYSTRALIAN FEDERATION.-A ROYAL VICEROY-London, February 26.-It is reported thar if the present movement fo rederation of the Australian colonies should be carried to a successful
issue the Imperial authorities will, in order to mark their sysmpathy with the movement and their interest in the welfare of the country, appoint a member of the Royal family as the first Voceroy
of the Dominion of Australia.
H. M.: "NOW, MY DEAR LADS. JION HANDS AND BECOME A GREAT PEOPLE, AND I'LL SEND YOU THIS TO LOOK AFTER YOU. ITS A GENUINE GUELPH
(TAOLOR-MADE) AND I HOPE YOU'LL PROVE WORTHY OF IT AND THE NOTICE I AM TAKING OF YOU!"


“TO WHAT EASE USES.”
HENRY GEORGE: “Great Scott, has it come to this! Have I travelled all this way to Australia simply to be made use of?"
PARKES, M'MILLAN & CO.: “ It’s a funny little way we’ve got.'
GEORGE: “And what becomes of me when I'm done being made a projectile of?"
PARKES: “Oh, you may go to America!”


The SYDNEY DEPOSIT BANK,
IK)-KING STREET—9O
Established 1885.
Agencies in London and throughout Australia.
Overdrafts granted against Deposit of Deeds,
and all the usual banking business transacted.
The following are the Rates of Interest allowed
for Fixed Deposits :
3 Years ... ~. 9i per cent.
12 Months per cent.
0 Months 7o per cent.
3 Months 5.J per cent.
5 per cent, allowed on daily balance of current account.
For the past Four (4) Years a Bonus of One per
Cent, has been paid in addition to the above rates.
This is the first and only Bank in the Colonies
which divides its profits with its depositors.
Communications from the country will be
promptly attended to.
T. S. RICHARDSON,
General Manager.
“The leading Packet Tea in New South Wales
is the Famous Billy Tea. Its consumption is
at least double that of any other brand in the
market.”
PACKED ONLY BY
James Inglls & Co.,
4 & fi Dean’s Place, SYDNEY.
Foreign & colonial exchange bank
OF AUSTRALASIA, Limited.
Sydney—B6 King Street.
Melbourne —361) Collins Street.
London Bankers— Australian Joint Stock Bank,
No. 2 King William Street, London, E.C.
Authorised Capitol, £500,000.
T. S. RICHARDSON, Esq., Managing Director.
This Bank undertakes the Exchange of Money,
both International and Intercolonial, includ-
ing the Coinage op all Foreign Nations, in
addition to all usual and customary banking busi-
ness.
Deposits Received.
3 years
12 months
6 months
3 months ...
Communications to be
Managing Director,”
... per cent.
... 8 per cent.
... 7 per cent.
... 6 percent,
addressed to "The
W. H.
PALING & COMPANY, LIMITED,
356 George Street, SYDNEY,
h*" s vas* Harass WJfWN* SMSs.fMi' 1 -”
Societu
From all we hear it is likely that a certain
very, very swell arranged marriage will not come
off, and that, therein, the world will receive
another caution against counting unhatched
chickens. The reason assigned for the delay, so
far, has been the young lady’s illness, but the truth
appears to be that it is the “ old man ” (who holds
the coin) that is ill —figuratively speaking, m other
words, the financee, and not the fiancee, is the
cause of delay.
* * *
There has been trouble in an aristocratic
Adelaide house. The eldest daughter of the noble
squire has for some time had an affection for a
poor but humble grocer’s son. To put a stop to
the attentions of the plebeian, the haughty father
transferred his daughter to a P. and O. steamer,
and an extended trip on the Continent resulted.
Last week, however, the faithful child returned to
South Australia, and, much to the dismay of her
father, she eloped and married. The Lst act of
this tragedy reveals a happy and contented pair
keeping house away in the country, and the old
man spending his time in kicking himself.
# * *
Everything does not come out at a trial.
The other day in Victoria a clerk charged with
embezzlement pleaded not guilty and was ac-
quitted. His salary was
under £2OO a _ year, yet he
had been keeping racehorses
and a big bank-account. In
fact, out of his weekly salary
of say £3 10s., he had put
through his account at a
Melbourne bank no less than
£2300 or £2400, gold and
notes, in a few months.
Which duly ascertained and
easily - provable facts being
shut out made a consider-
able alteration in his pros-
pects of gaol.
# * #
The active Queensland
politicians seem to run mostly
to girls. Morehead has seven
of them, all dressed alike
and riding together in’buses.
Black has three or four.
MTI wraith was that way.
The flower of Griffith’s flock
won't perpetuate the Griffith
name. And so you could
tally the lot nearly.
# # #
A sensational and me-
lancholy experience, of late,
was that of Ken. Brodribb,
the young brother-in-law of
Mr. Purves, Q.C. An in-
vestment of £2OO in Broken
Hill silver shares made him
worth £200,000, and he
sumptuously furnished a
magnificent residence on
Wellington Parade, but was
fated to die not long after
his house-warming, Mr.
Purves is living in the house
temporarily while his own
mansion in East Melbourne
is being done up.
* * *
“ Demos ” favours us
from Melbourne :— 1 ‘ I have
just had a chat with Kyrle
Bellew. We were asso-
ciated together on the Melbourne Herald.
Our last parting was in Collins-street, just
before he went to England. He astounded me
then by coming up in a naval uniform, and say-
ing, ‘Palmer, old man, I’m off to England, as
third officer of the ship Thomas Stephens.’ By
some mistake it was set going in Melbourne that
he acted in London as Harold Bellew Conway,
and thus he was confounded with the well-known
actor H. B. Conway. Then ho was traced as
Harold Kyrle, his full name being Harold Kyrle
Dominick Bellew. What amazes me now is to
find him so juvenile-looking. Beyond a few
streaks of the envious gray, he is not changed at
all. And he is the same frank and hearty fellow.
His American friends having taken pains to paint
him as fat and snowy, it is an astonishment to
Walstab and his host of old Melbourne friends tp
see him return quite in the old form.” .
# * #
The present writer, then very cheap and
youthful indeed, was in the police-reporters’ box
with Harold Bellew, whom he regarded as an
absolute genius. For was it not Bellew who
wrote the Herald police-reports in poetry, thus: —
Mr. B. and Mrs. B. don’t get on well together. The
other night Mrs. B. got tight and ho began to leather.
Fined five boh.
# * *
Thu inaugural banquet of the S.A. “Cor-
nish Association” was a melancholy fiasco, as far
as Cornish men were concerned. The rank-and-file
of those present may have, hailed from Cornwall,
but where were the “Pol, Tre, and Pen” among
the leaders? The speaker’s table at the last spread
at Adelaide was occupied by Scotchmen, Jews,
Englishmen, and Germans, who did almost all the
talking. The real “Cousin Jacks,” who were
dragged in just to give a flavouring to the thing,
were nobodies and their speeches nowhere. Judge
Boucaut, who has taken the position of president
of the Association, has been hitherto supposed to
be a member of a French Huguenot family settled
in Guernsey, and surprised most people by com-
ing out labelled as a Connshman. Of course the
S.A. Ministry were pre sent trying to win a little
cheap popularity against the coming elections. In
fact, the whole thing is locally regarded as a poli-
tical advertisement on the part of some of the
promoters.
* * *
The agitation that was kept going in
Queensland for five years for the release of the
Hopeful prisoners, has been mainly the work of
Captain Shaw’s sweetheart, and the brother of
one of the others, a well-known Brisbane con-
tractor. Lots of assistance was obtained at
various times from those who (like Byrne, of
Fiuaro) felt really sympathetic, as well as from
blatant demagogues who wanted notoriety, but
these two made the agitation hotter when it was
hot, and heated it up again when it got cold. And
the moral is that a brother can stick pretty close
sometimes, and that when a woman is fool enough
to be “gone ” on a man the nearer he goes to hell
the better she likes him. When Shaw (originally
sentenced to death) went into gaol he was a fine-
looking fellow of thirteen-stone six ; when he
came out of his irons, the other day, he weighed
WHAT BUSINESS IS.
YOUNG AUSTRALIA (for the first time Hike city): “SAY, DAD, I DON’T SEE NO CATTLE, AND I DON’T SEE
NO FIELDS—WHAT IS THEM PEOPLE LIVIN’ ON?”
DAD: “WELL, YER SEE THEY SWINDLE EACH OTHER AND CALL THAT BUSINESS.”
a little over nine-stone-and-a-half. The girl had
sworn to stick to him, and there she was, after
years and years waiting to greet him when the
gaol-gate opened.
* * *
The eleventh rule of the N.S.W. Crema-
tion Society is that—“ Persons becoming members
of this Society shall not thereby be considered as
either morally or logically bound to adopt crema-
tion in their own or in any other case under their
control.” This rule is a stultification of all the
Society’s other rules. In spite of it, the members
are “ morally and logically bound to adopt crema-
tion,” or principles and convictions go for nothing.
# # #
Typhoid has laid hold of one of the laundry-
maids at Melbourne Government House. It is to
be sincerely hoped that no germs have got into
His Excellency’s washing.
# # *
On the very thin excuse that one of the
vice-regal clear-starchers has got a touch of
typhoid my Lady Hopetcun is delaying her return
to Melbourne. If the young woman had it all her
own way she would never set foot in that Marvel-
lous City again, unless she travelled incog, and
wasn’t expected to gush over a parcel of redfaced
angels, who swoop down on Government House
whenever there is a show to shako hands with
their “Social Queen.” Lady Hopetoun’s dislike
to the “ Govingment ’Ouse set ” is strong and
vigorous. She is not such an old soldier as dear
Lady Loch, who could smile with all her teeth at
the most unbearable of snobs. Lady H. shuts
her eyes and shudders in spite of herself. In
an official sense this is wrong of the young
Goveruoress, yet she can’t help having a lot of
human nature about her. Women she would be
glad to see, never go to Government House, where
her footsteps are dogged by the female C.M.G.
creatures heretofore mentioned. And unless Hope-
toun can have things made pleasant for his wife
by keeping back the tribes of fat women with
gold chains, &c. and other effusive inflictions,
why his wife won’t trouble to make herself civil to
anybody any more. So there, now ! She’d rather
go back to England.
* * *
The story of that Melbourne dentist, who
made a practice of administering ether to his lady
patients for sinister purposes—Mr. Bertrands
favourite hypnotic, by the way, was chloroform—
has been hushed up. It was significant of a job
when a local paper coolly surmised that the gentle
tooth-puller was likely to “bo warned and re-
quested to leave Melbourne.” If the Mount
Rennie boys had used ether all might have yet
been well,' ha! ha! Four of those unfortunate
wretches were certainly warned and requested to
leave Sydney—at the end of a rope.—
Young Judge Manning, of Sydney, pro-
mises to be a big improvement on the old
gentleman, who, notwithstanding that his in-
tentions were always excellent, somehow or
other could never see more than one side of
a case. The young judge has just had his
baptism of blood as a full-blown Supreme Court
justice. He was “ deeply affected while passing
his first death-sentence.” Which somehow re-
minds us that onoe when we were dining with a
doctor, there was a ring at the bell and a servant
came in from the surgery, saying that there was
an urgent message for the medico. “Name?”
enquired the doctor. “Brown, of Smithville,”
said the servant. “Trouble?” demanded tho
doctor. “ Mrs. Brown is very bad,” replied the
servant “ I don’t knosv him, go out and see
who he is,” said Sawbones, M.D., M.R.O.S. “ He
says he belongs to the Pleasant Dream Lodge, No.
555,” said the servant. “ Ah,” said the veteran
grey-moustachioed Sawbones, “ just you tell him
that I am out and won’t be back for three hours.
Gone to see a dying man.” By the time Judge
Manning has been on the bench for a few years
and sentenced a few scores of people to be skinned
and hanged under dear old Sir Alfred .Stephens
bloodthirsty Botany Bay laws ho won t sniffle a
drop tears as big as horse-beans when qidcring
somebody to be choked. Expenentia docet and case-
hardeneth. There are some Australian judges to
whom a double-barrelled hanging sentence is
merely an ante-prandial sherry and bitters.
* # , *
From the S.M. Herald
WANTED for country, a Lady from 2o to SO as
i » Nursery Governess to two children, ages 0 and L
years ; must be agreeable and able to manage children
well, and assist in light house duties ; music, English,
and drawing required ; salary, £2O per annum. Ad-
dress Mrs. B , street, Woolwich, Lane Cove
River.
Moral: Where ignorance is bliss, &o. The Misses
Mary Ann Brown and Gladys O Toole, who are
not agreeable ; who don t know how to manage
anything, except the butcher and the policeman ;
who can’t assist in light house duties ; who know
no music, no English, no drawing, and aren t ex-
pected to know any—these young ladies won t
look at a situation m which they have not from
sixteen or eighteen shillings a week each, or nearl}
twioe as much as the advertiser offers. iSot
only this, but they demand, and are powerful
enough to obtain, plenty of leisure-time and re-
gular holidays. The Misses Mary Ann Brown
and Gladys O’Toole are free and independent, aro
able to dress well (in pink, blue, sea green, scarlet,
and yellow all at once) and, gradually rising to tho
rank of barmaid, if they are good-looking enough,
sometimes marry a rich squatter or other foolish
person ; their very worst fate may be to marry
the butcher and thereafter drive to Coogee on hut
days behind a fast trotter in an Abbot buggy,
arrayed in sealskin and flashing their diamonds.
But, alas ! for the poor governess who “ manages
children” and “assists in light house duties!”
She cannot marry the butcher, and the condi-
tions under which she meets the rich squatter, if she
ever does meet him, are the reverse of those con-
ducive to matrimony. Education, so far as women
is concerned, on the average, is a dismal failure in .
Australia. The fact that the difference between
the market value of female muscle and female
brains is about a hundred per cent, in favour
of the former ought to make women think seri-
ously. But, then, women don’t think seriously.
That is why they don’t get bald.
# * *
Melbourne Standard sent one of its famous
boy-reporters to let his young soul loose over Swal-
low and Ariel’s annual bean-feast. The ardent
juvenile commenced a thrilling narrative time-
wise “ Since the opening of the railway line,
there is no part of suburban Melbourne claiming
a greater picnic individuality than Fern Tree
Gully. Every Saturday and public holiday during
the summer season the wooded slopes and fern-clad
depressions ring with the joyous sounds of merry
voices, laughter, and brass or st ring bands, accord-
ing to the magnitude of the picnic.” Few gems
of literature sparkle lixc “picnic individuality
or “ fern-clad depressions.” As for the “joyous
sounds of brass bands ” (picnic brass bands), it s
the most pathetic piece of descriptive writing in
the language—awakening, as it does, our saddest
memories. Nothing finer has been put before the
Melbourne public since the pious D.T.’s own
special commissioner wrote of a Sunday school
treat that “the buns were indeed of surpassing
excellence, whilst the warmest praises of the qual-
ity of the lemonade were heard throughout this
never-to-be-forgotten festival. ”
From “ the City of
Saints ” comes a story of an
absent-minded, soft-hearted
Mormon elder who, walking
in the streets of Utah, en-
countered a lost child who
■was weeping and would not
be comforted. He yanked
him to his own home, and
on arrival the little chap
brightened up wonderfully,
whereupon the man of many
missuses said to his favourite
wife, who was then on duty :
“See here, Lydia, this poor
little chap has got lost, I
guess. Let us take him to
our bosoms and make him
one of the family.” “ Make
him one of the family ?” ex-
claimed Lydia, aggressively,
“Shucks! man, why he is
one of our sons already. That
shows the unnatr’el sort of
father you are not to know
our own little Robert Phineas
by sight.”
u * *
The case of Wigmore
v. Sunderland in Melbourne
Supreme Court last - week
was over the custody of, a-
little girl, not “brack trash ”
but a little coloured, like the
octoroon that Beecher placed
before his Plymouth Church
congregation and got them
to buy off. This child, of
the Wigmore case, is the
recognised offspring of a
young lady connected with
the Jubilee singers, who
“ were singing for a Protes-
tant university,” so says
the law-report. One would
like to know all about the
dear little Topsy Wopsy,
because Chadband was such
nuts on the Jubilee singers.
When the National Agricultural Society qf
Victoria decided to beg their Gracious Queen s
permission to paint “Royal ” on their signboard,
one of the members was reported as saying that he
approved of the motion “because it savoured ot
royalty.” Whereupon he wrote to explain that he
supported the alteration because it savoured qt
“ loyalty’’-not “ royalty.” The same nasty
savour attaches to both terms.—
>qvi x t “ royal ” and “ loyal,” in decent opinions,
The dif. none need trouble to seek ;
The savour of one word resembles riiions,
The other word tastes like a leek.
# * *
Tmnmv has "one through a humorous
of thanking “the women of Victoria” for a
silver-wedding present subscribed by a hand-
f lof mis g U ided females at Toorak. What tummy-
“V"** ,
rot > 10 sure * # #
..,. . , n
Protection to native industries is not wholly
a success in Victoria. They have to send out of
colony for their bank-clerks.
DENTIST-TRY.
There was onoe a dentist in Melbourne
Who did not, it seems, ever care,
When into his room had a belle gone,
For feminine friends to be there ;
And if, as he worried her teeth, her
Sister sat by, he would say —
“ How happy could I be with ethev
Were t’other dear charmer away ! ”


The
Marvellous
18s. 6d.
OPTIMUS
WATCHES
The Best, Cheapest and Most Accurate Timekeepers
, ever produced.
Made especially to our order by one of the leading and
most celebrated manufacturers of Watches in Switzerland
"n-3"s b or ho "“ **■ “ -tohu k .sa
Oilt movements, jewelled in six holes, keyless 00 turns
nS’SJ diillS ’' : ‘T B,al n fi ' 0eS ’ weli «>ade, Splendidly
rial i ■ oa T s t, ‘ at "ear excellently ;in fact
oenuSeePerf; h;Uulson,e little ' vatch <*. an 'd .oagnifl!
W1 V P Vwl' th / «i ,arantee forwarded with every one.
(0,1. , ': if, 8 - (is. postage), an,) have one
t*nly to be obtained from
FROST <Sc shipham
Spectacle Makers, Opticians & Electricians,
474 & 537 George Street. Sydney.
Sir James Martin’s first case on his eleva-
tion to the N.S.W. Supreme Court Bench was
one of murder, and the death-sentence pronounced
by him on the occasion was carried out. The
prisoner was Henry Jarvis, who murdered Mug-
geiidge, a carrier, on the road between Orange
and Bathurst and burned the body. John Davies,
C.M.G., was foreman of the jury, and David
Buchanan spoke four hours for the defence.
Mens Pierre Douar was not the first
escapee from Pentridge prison. In March 1851,
1 rank Gardiner, of Hugowra renown, escaped from
the same place and was not taken back. He got
five years in 1850 at Geelong, and, after escape,
seven years for horse-stealing in N.S W. Had
the wiseacres of that day sent him back to his
original punishment in Victoria what a lot of
trouble they might have averted !
For Mental Prostration
USE HORSFORO’S ACID PHOSPHATE.
Dr. A. Walker, Auckland, N.Z., says; “ I
have found it to act very well in severe mental
prostration and nervous depression. I find it
indispensable in my practice, having taken care-
ful observations of its action for over twelve
months.”
What Scott’s EinMon Has Done;
Over 2S Pounds G ain in Ten Weeks.
Experience of a Prominent Citizen,
The Caijfoknia Society fob the)
Suppression of Vice, (
San 3?kancisco, July 7th, 1886.)
I took a severe cold upon
my ©best and lungs and did
not give it proper attention;
it developed into bronchitis,
and in the fall of the same
year 1 was threatened with
consumption. Physicians or-
dered me to a more congeni-
al climate, and I came to San
Francisco. Soon after my
arrival I commenced taking
Scott’s Emulsion of Cod Liver
Oil with Hypophosphites reg-
ularly three times a day. In
ten weeks my avoirdupois
went from 188 to 180 pounds
and over; the cough mean-
time ceased, c. r. bennett.
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS.
IioBEJiTHON’s Whisky.
GIVV.N AWAY IN THR COLONIES
AS FOLLOWS :
10 of 45 each, -5 42, and 70 41,
Pamphlets from the Agents, &
00., Limited, CHARLOTTE PLACE, SYDNEY
THE “BLACK SHEEP” BILL.
11 The Home Government,” say a number
of colonial dailies, “intends introducing a Bill
with the object of keeping out of the House of
Lords such peers as are a discredit to their order.”
The measure is to be called the “ Black Sheep
Bill,” and can be of little service to the English
nation, inasmuch as it can only hope at the best
to separate the sheep from the goats.—
Will bigamy unseat our earls-?
Or ’cumulated debts?
Or vile assaults on little girls ?
Repudiated bets?
Or fondness for the cup that cheers?
If so, ’twill thin out England’s peers.
Will tricky conduct on the turf
Be utterly abhorred,
And capers that would hang a serf
Unseat a British lord ?
Will “ crirn, con.” cases—worst of fears—
Dethrone our dandy English peers?
We guess the promised Bill’s a broom
That will not cleanly sweep :
It makes no measures for the doom
Of scores of piebald sheep;
And snobs will always run with tears
To whitewash spots on English peers.
# * •
The N.S. Whiles divorce laws work very
queerly. The other day a wife sued her husband
for divorce. She lost, whereupon the judge paid
a high compliment to the respondent husband—
and saddled him with the costs of both sides all
the same. Is marriage a failure ?
Agony ad. from Sydney paper :
"P B.—You have broken nay heart: but hope soon
to hear of you having; to break stones. A.D.
“P. 8.” is significant.
* * #
Over a thousand persons make use of the
Melbourne Public Library daily, and it is to be
noted that neither season nor weather makes any
appreciable difference in the attendance. At
Sydney Free Library on a recent wet day the
attendants were unable to find sitting 1 accommo-
dation for the visitors, the unemployed from the
Gardens having flocked in out of the storm.
# * #
They now call Melbourne Gaol “Bank
Chambers.”
* * *
One of the Melbourne theatres announces
short waits. It is a pity to have our places of
amusement get into the hands of the wood-mer
chants.
* * *
A London parson, who locally founded a
celibate brotherhood for the purpose of working
among the East End poor, has renounced celibacy
and intends to marry a member of one of the
recently-formed girls’ clubs in that locality
*
His Honor decided that neither party had
succeeded in Kitchen the other in the act.
* * *
■ London Stock Exchange has declared
itself hostile to the proposed Bill empowering
trustees to invest trust funds in colonial securities
Since the cable is used for transmitting intelli-
?uT e l lke L th ! above, we might as well wire back
that the best interests of society are hostile to
every Stock Exchange in the world.
* * *
i The A ictorian Orchestra goes on in a way
that looks like throwing up the sponge, and utterly
disheartens subscribers. The programmes amount
to the same old grind, so that the critics chorus
What are you giving us ? ” Conductor Hamilton
Clarke is haw-hawish and stand off, and does not
lead an enthusiastic crew.
• * * #
Governor Loch is said to be disgusted with
Cape Colony, where the climate is trying and
loyal references to Her Majesty fall with a dull,
sjckenmg thud. He entertains nobody and
nobody entertains him. In the extreme bitterness
of his soul he has stated that Government House
-so different, oh, so different to that florid pile
by the flowing Yarra-“ isn’t fit for my grooms to
hve in bior can it be fit for Loch to live in at
that rate. His wife and daughters are returning
to England, his liver is breaking up fast, and, take
it altogether, Loch would just as soon be a dead
Zulu as not.
The Marquis of Lothian has been men-
S- e b, aB fr CCeSB °u ? aron Garington. The first
« Vr! f xaltetl lioUBe was a judge of the
Scottish Court, created Baron in 1587. It would
appear that the title has been considerably added
to since then, for the “Most Noble” is now ac-
cording to the senseless law of “snobbery,” Mar-
quis of Lothian, Earl of Lothian, Earl of Ancrum
Viscount Brim, Baron Kerr of Newbattle, Baron
Jedbillh e ß heUgh ’^lT Kerrof oxna "b Baron
Jedburgh, Baron Dolphmgton, Baron Nisbet
Baron Newbattle, &c., dtc., and a Knight of the
bloated T ll , lstle ?Tf this nol, K specimen of
C7IWVI Im penabsm con ?es out here to fatten on
£iO(K) a year and perks, while his estates at
home accumulate, loyal “society” will have a
wfiVu 1 ' B ' lf -n'i MaiV|uis bnn R 8 all his titles
with him we will have quite a little peerage of our
, • Surely the emptiness of titles was never
better exemplified than in this instance.
JERRY BOAKE'S CONFESSION.
A True Story of Far Northern Queensland.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
I ehhaj'si one of the most popular fellows on the
tlmn newly-opened H Goldfield in Far
Northern Queensland was Jack Walters. Every-
body knew him, and everybody liked him, and there
0 ia “ a **d niu °i l . popping of corks ere he
d ted down to C with the avowed intention
Of getting married. Walters had shares in one or
• d had a tidy sum of money
with him when he left the field amidst the con-
gratulations of the boys ”on his approaching
up id s. Jack was a friend of mine—when he
wis bunpomrily cr'iiplei! by a blasting accident I
used to write his love-letters for him.
, ■ hree diiys after he left, Inspector Frost and
h s bJa°k troopers, who all knew Walters, rode
into the township. Naturally the first question
askcß was, had they met Jack, and how far he’d
got on the road ?
“ Never saw or heard of him,” was the unex-
rH)ly ’ , P erha P 8 h « was off the road.”
pvnccfo’j f heSa ‘7 “ h ™ g° in g down easy and
expected to meet you.
“ Hum ! ” said the Inspector, “ I’m going back
to-morrow and I’ll keep a sharp look-out foiUiim.”
ifty miles from H- was a creek with per-
manent water and good feed, a favourite camping-
'T h °i ha( ! t( J 1(1 ‘ he to watch
for signs of Jack, had almost forgotten the
matter, to which, after all, he did not attach much
A LARGE ORDER.
The total number of New Guinea niggers proposed to be handed over to the Wesleyan Church
for christianisation is about 5,000,000.
SHEPHERD (who has come to arrange for those 5,000,000 black sheep): "AND, SAINT
PETER, I SHOULD LIKE TO KNOW THERE YOU ARE TO PUT
ALL THOSE NIGGERS."
SAINT PETER : “WELL, YOU SEE, THAT’S OUR DIFFICULTY, THE FACT
IS WE WANT. IF POSSIBLE, TO PRESERVE HEAVEN FOR THE
GREAT AND OMNIPOTENT ANGLP-SAXON PEOPLES. THAT'S
WHERE IT IS!"
importance, when a shrill whistle from one of his
boys a short distance off the road to the right
attracted his attention. The boy had dismounted
and was standing gazing at something on the
ground. Frost rode up, and had almost antici-
pated what it was before he reached the spot.
Screened by a few bushes from any chance travel-
ler lay the body of a dead man—Jack Walters.
His bead was pillowed on his riding-saddle, his
blanket was thrown over the lower part of his
body, and his pack-saddle and bags were close by
where they had evidently been put overnight. He
had been shot through the temple, and in his
hand he still held a revolver. To all appearance
it was one of those motiveless cases of suicide that
now and then puzzle everybody.
A careful examination was made, but nothing
seemed to have been disturbed ; no money save
some loose silver was found. Frost collected all
the camp paraphernalia, took careful notes of the
position of the body and all the surroundings ;
then, leaving one trooper to guard the remains,
despatched a boy back to H with the n;ws,
and instructions to the police there to come out
and take the body—he himself had to proceed on
his journey. Casting one more glance around, he
noticed a newspaper lying some distance away.
Such things were commonly found on old camp-
ing-grounds, but he walked over and picked it up.
It was the H Express, the journal of the
mining township he had left. He looked at it
idly for some time, thinking more of the sight he
had just witnessed than of the paper in his hand,
when he instinctively noticed the date, which sug-
gested a train of thought. Walter had left the
field three days before Frost’s arrival there.
The Inspector remembered that fact well, because
there had been some debate as to the spot where
they should have passed each other. Three days
would make it Monday, and this paper was issued
on Tuesday, flow had it come into the dead
man’s camp ?
I 1 rest went back and looked at the corpse before
the troopers covered it up with boughs. The
revolver* taken from the stiffened fingers, he re-
membered, was but loosely held —it was not in
the iron grasp of a dead man’s hand clutched hard
at the moment of death. No doubt remained
that the case was not one of suicide, but cowardly,
cold-blooded murder. Somebody had left the
diggings the next morning, had ridden hard and
overtaken Walters at the creek, had shared the
hospitality of his camp, and had shot him for the
sake of the money he had with him. Where was
the murderer now ?
Frost, who had gold to take down to the port,
did not tarry long between the scene of the murder
and C—-. _ The second day saw him closeted
with the police-magistrate, who had just received
a telegram from H informing him of the
arrival of the native police with the news of
Frost’s discovery. Hardly had Frost told his
tale before another telegram arrived— “ Jerry
Boake left here after Walters. See if he is in
C
Jerry was a pretty notorious character and,
sti*ange to say, Walters was one of the few men
who had befriended him when everybody else had
thrown him over.
A very short enquiry elicited the fact that Jerry
was in town; also that Jerry was in funds and
had given the barmaid at the “Rise and Shine’' a
gold watch and chain. Interviewed, the barmaid
produced the gold watch and chain, which were at
once recognised as the property of Walters, who
had bought them as a present for his fiancee
Jerry was straightway arrested and, absurd as the
statement may seem, was actually wearing a ring
well-known to belong to Walters. He denied his
guilt stoutly, stated that Walters had given him
the ring and the watch and chain to bringdown,
anti that when he was drunk lie gave it to the bar-
ma,d Jerry was remanded to H , and Frost
himself started up in charge of him.
# * #
The dusk was setting in when they reached the
bank of the creek where the dead body had been
found. The party from H had been there and
removed it. Frost pulled up and looked round
I lie prisoner, manacled to a trooper, was close to
him.
“You’re not going to camp here, are you
stammered Jerry Boake, with pallid lips.
AA liy not? said I rest, sternly; ‘ ‘ i/ou know
nothing about this place, do you ?” And without
another word he rode straight to the scene of the
murder and got oil his horse.
“ Turn out,” he said briefly.
The troopers dismounted, and began unpacking
and unsaddling. Frost undid the handcuff from
the trooper’s wrist and refastened it on the
prisoner’s.
There is only one way in the bush of securing a
criminal charged with such a crime as Jerry’s and
who would stick at nothing to escape. A light
trace-chain is used and the prisoner tethered
securely to a tree. Without a word Frost chain-
m-hand, walked to the tree beneath which the
body had been found and beckoned to the troopers
to bring- the prisoner. Jerry approached ; he had
summoned up all his hardihood and called up a
ook or defiance on his face, hut lie couldn’t control
the trembling of his now pallid lips. Frost secured
aim and the black trooper brought him his blankets,
and sat down a short distance off to watch him.
i ark ness closed in, the camp-fires blazed up,
ood and tea were given the prisoner, and with an
au- of bravado he pretended to cat; but though
the food paved his lips not a bite could he
swallow. I lie tea he drank greedily and asked
tor more. Iho day s journey had been a long one,
and tlie tired men soon dropped off to sleep one
after another—but for one man there was no sleep
that night. For all that the camp was so quiet
he had an idea that he was being watched, and it
gave him a,miserable kind of moral support to
think that there was somebody else awake beside
himself. It would be an awful thing to be the
only waking man in that camp.
He had got to the full length of the trace-chain
am. must have lost consciousness for a few
moments, for while his heart beat until it nearly
choked him he saw a black shadow under the tree
—a dark shadow that was not there before. With
an effort he stilled his trembling nerves and forced
himself to gaze at the object. Pah ! The moon
hail risen higher and changed the position of the
shadows, that was all. But supposing a man with
a bloody smear on his forehead and half closed
dull eyes were really to come and lie down on that
spot, while he himself was chained there not able
to get away, what an awful thing it would be !
W ould morning never come ?he thought. Why
must he think, think, think, and all about the one
thing ; his own incredible folly ! A few pounds
in gold, a few days of drunken “ shouting,” and
now- -it must be a nightmare, surely—he’ could
not have been led away to do such a madly insane
deed. He disliked the man mostly because he
owed him many kindnesses, but that was not what
ne killed him lor, !No, it was for the few miser-
abfe pounds he was carrying. That horrible black
shadow seemed to stop there although the moon’s
position had changed. Why did it stop there ?
X erhaps there was a stain of blood on the ground
he would force himself to go over and see. No
he couldn t do that, he would stop where he was
and try to think of other things ; but he couldn’t.
Always the same thought, the same hideous pic-
ture-a man asleep with his head on a saddle and
another standing over him with a levelled pistol.
And then—well, then, a sight that would never
leave him ; the moon was young and sickly then,
but its light was strong enough to show tlie dead
body of the murdered man with the bloody smear
on its face. Would morning never come; pre-
sently the moon would set, and then the darkness
would be horrible. Who knows what hideous
thing might creep on him unawares '! The air
seemed thick with an awful corpse-like smell ; had
they buried the body there where it was found ?
iMit this thought was too maddening, lie would go
frantie if he entertained it. Why didn’t the black
shadow shift—the moon was getting low now ?
dust before daylight Frost was awakened by
one of his boys at the door of his tent. “ Marmee,
that fellow Jerry sing out along o’ you ! ” Frost
got up and went over to the place. The moon
had set and the night was dark ; he told the boys
to make the fire.
“My God! Mr. Frost,” said a piteous voice,
take me away from here and I’ll tell you every-
thing.” Frost undid the chain and led him to the
lire. He afterwards said that the look on the
wretch s face haunted him for months. »Jerry
Boake made a full confession —and was hanged a
few weeks afterwards.
D.


Use Batho's Baking Powder.
When next you bake try Pemell’s Sirow-waira Patwt
Rou.hr Flour, and your bread will be as white as snow.
Use Batho's Baking Powder.
“ A little American Hop Bitters saves big
doctor's bills and long sickness.”
Use Batho's Baking Powder.
Furniture, &o.
N
EWTON AND LAMB.
FURNITURE and PIANOFORTE
WAREHOUSEMEN,
CABINETMAKERS, UPHOLSTERERS
AND
BEDDING MANUFACTURERS.
SHOW BOOMS AND MANUFACTORY:
SPRING AND O’CONNELL STREETS
m
EASY CHAIRS, for Parlour, Library, or Bod-
rooms, new designs, covered to order, in
any material.
lANOFORTES, by R. LTPP and SOHN,
L. NEUFELD and other Celebrated
Makers at WHOLESALE PRICES. Newton
and Lamb.
BAGATELLE BOARDS, Portable, various
sizes.
BEDROOM SUITES, complete, ixi various
Woods, and very handsome designs, with
7 feet Wardrobes, or with smaller Wardrobes for
single rooms. Great variety.
NEWTON and LAM B,
Furniture Warehousemen,
SPRING AND O’CONNELL STREETS.
BEDROOM SUITES, fashionable early
English designs—Wardrobe 4 feet, with
silvered plate-glass door : Washstand, with marble
top and tile back, Towel Rail; Toilet Table,
with Swing Glass attached; and Two Cane-
Seated Chairs, 14 guineas.
NEWTON & LAMB,
O’Connell and Spring Streets.
ir®c
CANVAS FOLDING
COTS, for camping
out. A cheap occasional
bed light, strong, and
handy, 10s. 6d.
Newton & Lamb.
DINING TABLES, with patent extending
screws, from 5 feet long and up to 20 feet.
WALNUT TELESCOPIC DINING
TABLES with extra leaves, strongly
made, £3 10s.
HALL FURNITURE, HATSTANDS and
CHAIRS. LARGE ASSORTMENT.
NEWTON fc LAMB.
F IBRARY FURNITURE, CENTRE and
I i SIDE TABLES, BOOKCASES, SECRE-
TARIES. READING and LOUNGE CHAIRS.
OMMODE CHAIRS, BIDETS, with Pan.
SHAVING STANDS, NEWTON and
LAMB.
JAPANESE BLINDS, White or Green (extra
quality), fitted with pulleys and cord, 0 x 8,
6s. 6d.; 8 x 8, 95.; 9 xB, 9s. 6d.; 10 xB, 10s. 6d.;
12x8, 12s. 6d.; 12x10, 15s. Newton & Lamb,
Furniture Warehousemen, Spring and O’Connell
Streets.
EASY CHAIRS for Parlour, Library or Bed-
rooms. New Designs covered to order in
any material. Newton & Lamb.
SELF-ADJUSTING CHAIR and COUCH,
for Invalids and Medical Men.
ROCKING EASY CHAIRS, elegant and
restful —a speciality. Newton & Lamb.
đ
MERICAN PATENT
SHUT UP
CLOTHES DRYER.
135 feet of hanging space.
Ykuy Cheap.
NEWTON and LAMB.
d
FOLDING
CHAIRS.
Substantial and Light.
Suitable for Shipboard and
Verandah.
Price Vert Low.
NEWTON and LAMB
Furniture Warehousemen,
Spring and O’Ccnnell Streets.
GARDEN SEATS, 6ft. long, Rustic Cast-iron
Standards, 14s. 6d., 195., 255., 325. 6d.
Newton and Lamb.
r ERANDAH CHAIRS.
INDIAN LONG ARM LOUNGES.
"O ATT AN VERANDAH LOUNGES, from
Jtxi 15s-; and large variety of Chairs, from
10s. 6d.; special designs, extra quality. Newton
and Lamb, Furniture Warehousemen, Spring and
O’Connell Streets.
N
EWTON AND LAMB
FURNITURE and PIANOFORTE
WAREHOUSEMEN,
CABINETMAKERS, UPHOLSTERERS
AND
BEDDING MANUFACTURERS.
Show Rooms and Manufactory ;
SPRING and O’CONNELL STREETS
Mark Twain’s New Book.
A Crusher for Royalty.
Them is evidence to be seen on every side just
now that democracy has taken the bit between its
teeth, respectfully but firmly, and is preparing to
bolt and throw its riders in the gutter. What it
will do afterwards will probably be something
equally sensible, but that is for afterwards to
decide. Between now and that afterwards there
will be a spilling out of the saddle of Kings and
Rulers by the Grace of God generally, and an un-
seating of aristocrats and privileged loafers and
thieves. Brazil has given its monarch a lump sum
and fair time to take his luggage away from the
place. Portugal declares herself sick of sceptres
and tinsel and starvation, and wants to follow
suit. The Duo d’Oblbans, caught trying the
door of the lumber-room in which the people have
locked up the Crown of France, is ignonuniously
placed in “quod,” amid the jeers of the whole
Republic. The Czar of all the Russias appears to
live in a bomb-proof Milner’s safe and have no
real enjoyment. In Germany the growth of
Socialism within the past few years has been such
as to make the Iron Chancellor sit up and dis-
guise himself in lager. The last elections there
show who is going to be master in the future, and
the action taken by the Emperor in regard to the
Labour Convention indicates that either through
fear or humanity he wishes to keep up with the
times. In England the Church and the House of
Lords visibly totter, and the wasteful prerogatives
and claims of Royalty are met with growing
opposition. The early awakening of the masses
to a knowledge of their wrongs and their rights is
foreshadowed by uneasy movements; twenty
winds are urging on the great wave of radi-
cal thought which will by-and-bye wash down
all things that are builded on ignorance.
In the few semi-barbarous countries where
monarohs yet attempt to have a will of their own,
the divinity that formerly hedged a King, has
handed the job over to secret police, bribed to
watch one another as well as to watch everybody
else, or has assumed the shape of a diet of eggs
laid in the Royal Presence, or an Imperial Taster
warranted not to survive poison. In the more
civilised lands Royalty is endured as a system we
have grown used to, but which must be looked
into more closely some day.
* * *
Reference was recently made m the columns of
The Bulletin to a remarkable “ novel with a
purpose” which is just now having an extra-
ordinary sale and a considerable effect on social
thought, Edward Bellamy’s “Looking Back-
ward.” Now we have another’, red-hot with the
spirit of to-day, scathing in its denunciations of
class-robbery, effective in its exposure of the
shams and frauds that are dying so hard;
humorous, pathetic, powerful, graphic. Mark
Twain’s new book, “ A Yankee at King Arthur’s
Court,” a few copies of the English edition of
which have just reached Australia, cannot fail to
create a profound impression upon the mind of the
reading world. And it has the great advantage
that on account of its author’s name alone it will
at once command an enormous circle of readers.
Bellamy was comparatively unknown 12 mouths
ago, and his book had to make its way solely on
its merits, but the signature of Mark Twain
would sell nearly anything. Of all living writers
he is one of the most popular. He has become a
sort of Court Jester for the whole English-speak-
ing race, and has hitherto only shown occasional
touches of the serious thought that may speak
from the mouth of a wearer of the cap and bells.
In the “ Innocents Abroad ” there was some cut-
ting satire directed against moss-grown supersti-
tions, some solid and splendid historical and pic-
turesque passages, a great deal of the clear
common-sense which, when applied to spiritual
questions is called blasphemy, by fools and bigots,
and much delightfully humorous narrative. In
his subsequent writings Mr. Clemens developed
the exaggerated and wildly extravagant vein of
piled-up and magnificent impossibilities of grotes-
que occurrence with which we are all acquainted.
Ephemeral and somewhat frothy most of it was,
and sometimes not over-funny. Only in “ The
Prince and the Pauper,” and one or two other of
his sketches, did he show that he had deeper feel-
ings than those professionally appertaining to a
literary madcap or other objects than to amuse.
# # *
In this book, however, there is no mistaking his
feelings and objects. He has chosen an allegori-
cal method of preaching a most moving sermon
against the oppression of the many by the few,
under whatever pretext it.may be done. He is
terribly in earnest this time. His cap and bells
have fallen back on his shoulders in the excite-
ment of what he has to tell us, and it is only when
he turns half aside to deal with some interruption,
as it were, that they are seen at all. These inter-
ruptions are many and diverting enough, but they
are never permitted to cloud the main issue or
obscure the text. Bellamy projected himself into
the future, and drew a fanciful picture of life as it
might be then. He passed over the interval of
change, and any jarring it might bring, with a
good deal of judicious silence, and was careful not
to show existing institutions and conditions in
such a manner as to arouse the direct antagonism
of those who have an interest in preserving them.
Mark Twain goes back into the past, and shows
how much of what was worst in it clings about
the present, and how much of it has to be got rid of
before we should begin carrying around banners and
calling ourselves freemen. The freemen of King
Arthur’s time are presented to us, but the free-
men of Queen Victoria’s time are indicated all
through. The hero of the story, speaking of a
spectacle he witnessed, says :
Here were these freemen assembled in the early morn-
ing to work on their lord the Bishop’s road three days
each, gratis; every head of a family and every son of a
family, three days each, and a day or so added for their
servants. Why, it was like reading about France and the
French before the ever memorable and blessed Revolution,
which swept a thousand years of such villainy away in
one swift tidal-wave of blood—one; a settlement of the
hoary debt in the proportion of half a drop of blood for
each hogshead of it that had been pressed by slow tortures
out of the people in the weary stretch of ten centuries of
wrong and shame and misery the like of w'hich was not to
be mated but in hell! There were two * Reigns of Terror,'
if we would but remember it and consider it; the one
wrought murder in hot passion, the other in heartless cold
blood ; the one lasted mere months, the other had lasted
a thousand years; the one inflicted death on ten thousand
persons, the other upon a hundred millions; but our
shudders are for the ‘‘horrors” of the minor Terror, the
momentary Terror, so to speak : whereas what is the
horror of swift death by the axe compared with lifelong
death from hunger, cold, insult, cruelty, and heartbreak ?
What is swift death by lightning compared with death by
slow Are at the stake V A city cemetery could contain the
coffins filled by that brief Terror which we have all been
so diligently taught to shiver at and mourn over ? but all
France could hardly contain the coffins filled by that
older and real Terror—that unspeakably bitter and awful
Terror which none of us has been taught to see m its
vastness or pity as it deserves.
• • #
Nothing of the “Jumping Frog ” about that, is
there? And that is the key-note of the whole
strain. The meaning of all that lies between the
covers of the book is simply that no uprising of
the people, terrible and cruel as it may be, is one-
thousandth part as devilish as the merciless
crushing of them that is going on all round us all
the time —not as great or as guilty a crime. The
story is of a Yankee, head-superintendent of a
Connecticut factory, who, in a controversy with
one of his men, received a blow on the head with
an iron bar which stunned him. When he re-
gained consciousness he found himself sitting
under a tree in a strange land. Sir Kay, the
Seneschal, rode up fully caparisoned and challenged
him to joust “for land or lady.” The Yankee
inquired what circus he had escaped from, but Sir
Kay retiring, and coming back full tilt with his
lance in position, he took to the tree. The other,
however, having “argument on his side and the
bulk of the advantage, “ the American surrendered
as his prisoner and accompanied him to Camelot.
His view of the mystic city of King Arthur is
different from the noble pictures Tennyson has
given us of it. Arthur’s Ooui't was tolerable
enough, but “In the town were some substantial
windowless houses of stone scattered among a wil-
derness of thatched cabins; the streets were
crooked alleys and unpaved ; troops of dogs and
nude children played in the sewer and made life
and noise; hogs roamed and rooted contentedly
about, and one of them lay in a reeking wallow in
the middle of the main thoroughfare and suckled
her family. Presently there was a distant blare of
military music; it came nearer, still nearer,
and soon a noble cavalcade wound into view,
glorious with plumed helmets and flashing mail
and flaunting banners and rich doublets and horse-
cloths and gilded spear-heads; and through the
muck and swine and naked brats and joyous dogs
and shabby huts it took its gallant way, and in its
wake we followed.” Which almost reminds us of
the Sydney Lancers passing through Woolloo-
mooloo.
* * *
The usual orgie went on that night at the Round
Table. They drank out of ox-horns, and gnawed
beef-bones, and boasted absurdly of their “quests”
and adventures —of dragons slain and high-born
young damsels rescued from prisons in which they
had generally pined for twenty years or so. Every
knight had his batch of prisoners brought in for
exhibition and lied most unblushingly about them.
Sir Kay told the story of his capture of the
Yankee, always alluding to him as “this prodi-
gious giant,” “this horrible-sky-towering mon-
ster,” or “this tusked and taloned man-devouring
ogre,” and finally ordered him to be burned at the
stake on the 21st of June at noon (it was then the
19th of June in the year 513). But the Yankee
had not lost his head. He remembered having
read that a total eclipse of the sun had occurred
at the day and hour when he was to die of that
year, and he reckoned that, as he was shifted
back in time it must occur again. He had seen
Merlin, the mighty magician, at the feast, and
recognised that he was merely a drunken old bore
and a consummate fraud. He had seen, too,
that he possessed marvellous power over the people,
and that both they and the king fervently
believed in and trembled before the powers of
magic. He convinced a page who was sent to
attend on him that he was an infinitely greater
magician than Merlin. “ Merlin, he said,
“ don’t amount to shucks as a magician ; knows
some of the old common tricks, but has never got
beyond the rudiments, and never will. He is well
enough for the provinces—one-night stands and
that sort of thing, you know—but, dear me, he
oughtn’t to set up for an expert, anyway, not
where there’s a real artist!’ The page told this
tofthe King, who at once believed it, and was for
releasing and apologising to the strange magician
when Merlin interfered and insisted upon his
being burned up to time. But the American had
threatened to blot out the sun if the attempt was
made to carry the sentence out, and just as he
was tied to the stake and the torch was about to
be applied, he saw the eclipse beginning, and
cried out: “ If any man moves—even the King-
before I give him leave I will blast him with
thunder, I will consume him with lightnings!”
No one—not even Merlin— dared to move, and
the eclipse went on, and they all cried to have it
stopped, and the King offered half his kingdom
as the price. The Yankee made a bargain that
suited him better, and triumphed over Merlin,
who ultimately bectame a sort of mere assistant
Government magician. This eclipse business has
been pretty well worn in the hands of novelists —
in “ King Solomon’s Mines ” it renders valuable
service. “ Columbus or Cortes, or one of those
people, played an eclipse as a saving trump once
on some savages,” says the Yankee in extenua-
tion, “ and 1 saw my chance. I could play it
myself now, and it wouldn’t be any plagiarism
either, because I should get it in nearly a thousand
years ahead of those parties I”
* * *
The Connecticut Yankee at once set to work to
take hold of things generally, and modernise the
country. He started schools, and factories of
various kinds, altered the basis of taxation and
slowly began to prevail on the nobles and priest-
hood to wash themselves. He became known by
the name of The Boss, and had more power than
the King, and only less than the Church. One
of his heaviest crosses, however, was the practical
joker and humorous anecdote retailer of the
Round Table. “If seemed peculiarly sad,” he
says, “to sit here thirteen hundred years before I
was born and listen to poor, flat, worm-eaten jokes
that had given me the dry gripes when I was a
boy thirteen hundred years afterwards. It about
convinced me that there isn’t such a thing as a
new joke possible. Everybody laughed at these
antiquities—but then they always do; I had
noticed that centuries later, ” He made wonderful
changes in everything, and after he had picked
out and educated the smartest young fellows he
could find, introduced telephones, and all such
things. His nineteenth century knowledge gave
him such power in the sixth century that he could
overcome any giant or dragon or knight they
could bring on. All the vanquished knights were
bound on oath to traverse the country as sand-
wich men, bearing advertising boards out-
side their mail and selling soap and tooth-
brushes, which the Yankee manufactured, to
to the inhabitants. Everything was put to use
and knight-errantry made to look ridiculous. I he
hermits and saints who infested the place were
also utilised for productive purposes as far as pos-
sible. The following extract shows how oamt
Simeon Stylites was worked
His stand was a pillar 60 feet high, with a broad plat-
form on the top of it. He was now doing what he had
been doing every day for 20 years up there—bowing his
body ceaselessly and rapidly almost to his feet. It was
his way of praying. I timed him with a stop watch and
he made 1244 revolutions in 24 minutes and 46 seconds. It
seemed a pity to have all this power going to waste. It
was one of the most useful motions in mechanics, the
pedal motion ; so 1 made a note in my memorandum-book
purposing some day to apply a system of elastic cords to
him and run a sewing-machine by it. 1 afterwards car-
ried out that scheme and got five years’ good service out
of him, in which time he turned out upwards of 18,000
first-rate tow-linen shirts, which was 10 a day. I worked
him Sundays and all; he was going Sundays the same as
week-davs, and it was no use to waste the power. These
shirts cost me nothing but the mere trifle for the materials
—I furnished those myself; it w'ould not have been right
to make him do that—and they sold like smoke to pil-
grims at a dollar and a half a piece, which was the price
of fifty cows or a blooded horse in Arthurdom. They
were regarded as a perfect protection against sin, and
advertised as such by my knights everywhere, with the
paint-pot and stencil-plate; insomuch that there was
ndt a cliff or a boulder or a dead wall in England
but you could read on it at a mile distance: —
“ Buy the only genuine St. Stylites; patronised by
the nobility. Patent applied for." There was more
money in the business than one knew what to do with.
As it extended I brought out a line of goods suitable for
kings, and a nobby thing for duchesses and that sort, with
ruffles down the fore-hatch and the running gear clewed
up with a feather-stitch to leeward and then hauled aft
with a back-stay and triced up with a half-turn in the
standing-rigging forward of the weather gaskets. Yes, it
was a daisy! But about that time I noticed that the
motive power had taken to standing on one leg, and I
found that there was something the matter with the other
one; so I stocked the business and unloaded, taking Sir
Boss i>k Ganis into camp financially along with certain of
his friends, for the works stopped within a year, and the
good saint got him to his rest. But he had earned it. I
will say that for him.
# * *
The Yankee himself at last goes upon a “quest.”
It was the custom of the Knights to start out
“ holy-grailing ” every now and then and get lost
and occasion search parties to go after them, who
also get lost, and so on. A fair maid, the Lady
Alisanije la Cartehoise (who is called “ Sandy ”
by the Yank), brings a tale of distress, and he is
commissioned by the King to go forth and put
things right. His adventures form a large
part of the book and one of the most inter-
esting. There are most tragic and thrilling pas-
sages, not of the pinchbeck tragedy of knighthood
and its doings, but the tragedy of the lives of the
common people, oppressed by courtly scoundrels
and a brutal priesthood. The Boss, having a
power hardly any dare question, threw open dun-
geons and released prisoners who had been pent in
the damp and darkness for years and years upon
the most trivial pretexts. On one occasion he
exerted this power to the chagrin of a Queen who
was enjoying a general butchery and imprison-
ment of her dependants. It was a rather larger
order for him to do this, and the Queen was
abashed. At a Royal Banquet in the evening
there was a barbaric band playing in the gallery of
the dining-hall, and one of the pieces performed
was something like “The Sweet By-and-bye.”
“Bor some reason or other,” says the narrator,
“the Queen had the composer hanged after din-
ner.” She was so scared and humbled, however,
that she was afraid to do it without first consulting
the “ boss. ” “I was very sorry for h er, ”he goes on;
“indeed, anybody would have been, for she was
really suffering. So I was willing to do anything
that was reasonable, and had no desire to carry
things to wanton extremities. I therefore con-
sidered the matter thoughtfully, and ended by
having the musicians ordered into our presence to
play ‘ The Sweet By-and-Bye ’ again, which they
did. Then I saw that she was right, and gave her
permission to hang the whole band. This little
relaxation of my sternness had a good effect upon
the Queen. A statesman gains little by the arbi-
trary exercise of ironclad authority upon all occa-
sions that offer, for this wounds the just pride of
his subordinates and thus tends to undermine his
strength. A little concession, now and then,
where it can do no harm, is the wiser policy.”
# * *
For the rest of what happened, the establishing
of the first newspaper and the extraordinary
reports and typography of it, the secret tour
among the freemen undertaken by the Yankee
and the King in disguise, what they saw and
learned, and the great events that happened after-
wards, the readers of The Bulletin must go to
the book itself. It is in all respects a fine one.
The manner in which the archaic and ponderous
language of those times, as handed down to us in
Arthurian literature and legend, is sustained by
all around him, and the sharp contrast to it of the
American’sfree-and-easy-speech and trans-Atlantic
slang is simply wonderful; whoever has read
Lecky will recognise how close to authentic
history Mr. Clemens has kept wherever that is
possible. The filthiness and ignorance of the
hennits and saints, their insane sacrifices and
austerities, thecrueland shocking domination of the
Church over all, and of the King and nobles over
the “freemen” and villeins, are shown strikingly,
and always with the suggestion—“ Are things
so very different now, allowing for the march of
civilisation ?” From a purely literary point of
view, it is far and away the best work the author
has produced ; every page of it shows thought
and care, and that finish which is the result of
conscientious effort, therefore it is charming to read
throughout. But it is the meaning written in a
big round hand between the lines that makes it
one of the most valuable and timely books that
have been given us lately. The merciless genealogy
of the ridiculous and savage arbitrary power that
is yet an active working curse to humanity ; the
manful and open manner in which the shame and
impudence of an idle aristocracy living luxuriously
out of the toil of poor, half-starved wretches
are shown up, will get in its work. There is i
hardly any kind of large abuse or wrong that is
not vigorously tilted at. The illustrations are
many and excellent, and can leave no doubt in the i
minds of even the dullest about the lesson in- |
tended to be conveyed. The frontispiece repre-
sents a Yankee in a check suit tickling the nose of
a British lion, about to become rampant, with a
straw. If the funds of the Primrose League
could stand the strain they could be put to no
better use than to buy up and burn “ A Connecti-
cut Yankee ” before it sets all the world laughing
at Royalty and cursing Aristocracy.
# # *
With these extracts, which are worth remember-
ing by Australians just now, and with a recom-
mendation to every one of them to buy the book
and keep it on the premises, if possible, we close
our notice with a final quotation :
There is a phrase which has grown so common in the
world’s mouth that it has come to have sense and meaning
—the sense and meaning implied when it is used: that is
the phrase which refers to this or that or the other nation
as possibly being “ capable of self-government,” and the
implied sense of it is that there has been a nation some
time, somewhere, that wasn’t capable of it —wasn’t as
able to govern itself as some self-appointed specialists
were, or would be, to govern it. The master minds of all
nations, in all ages, have sprung in affluent multitude
from the mass of the nation, and from the mass of the
nation only—not from its privileged classes ; and so, no
matter what the nation’s grade was, whether high or
ow, the bulk of its ability was in the long
ranks of its nameless and its poor, so it never
saw the day that it had not the material in abundance,
whereby to govern itself. Which is to assert an always
self-proven fact; that even the best governed, and most
enlightened, and most free monarchy is still behind the
best condition attainable by its people. .......
• • • There is plenty good enough material for a
republic in the most degraded people that ever existed—
even the Russians ; plenty of manhood in them—even in
the Germans—if one could but force it out of its timid and
suspicious privacy—to overthrow and trample in the mud
any throne that was ever set up, and any nobility that
ever supported it.” *


CAUTION.
LOOK OUT FOR FRAUDS.
Owing to the success of Dr. Soule’s
Americas: Hop Bitters in curing nil diseases
of the Liver, Stomach, Bowels, Blood, Kid-
neys and Drinary Organs, Nervousness,
Sleeplessness, and Female Complaints, so
that it has become a standard household
remedy all over the world, and the immense
demand for the original and genuine article,
certain persons are offering for sale various
cheap and spurious preparations under the
name of “Hop Bitters” which do not
contain the medicinal properties found only
in Dr. Soule’s American Hop Bitters.
Take none of the cheap bogus stuff simply
because it is called “Hop Bitters.”
TRUTHS.
Dr. Soule’s American Hop Bitters are the
Purest and Best Bitters ever made.
They arc compounded from Hops, Buchu, Man-
drake and Dandelion— the oldest, best, and most
Valuable medicines in the world, and contain all the best
and most curative properties of all other bitters, being'
the greatest Blood Purifier, Liver Regulator, and
Life and Health Restoring Agent on earth. No disease
or ill health can possibly long exist where these Bitters
are used, so varied and perfect are their operations.
They give new life and vigour to the aged and fnfirnv
To all whose employments cause irregularity of the
bowels or urinary organs, or who require an appetizer,
tonic, or mild stimulant, these Bitters are invaluable,
being highly curative, tonic and stimulating, without
Intoxicating.
REMEMBER.
£5OO (Five hundred pounds) will be paid for
any case that Dr. Soule’s American Hop Bitters
will not cure or help.
Sec that cadi bottle bears genuine label
bunch of green bops on whit e paper with
black letters.
None other genuine. Take no other.
A matrimonial alliance is on the tapis be-
tween the houses of two Sydney Q.O.’s.
%
ei
'c
*3-
■C
s
T
o
U
/Age mts .
DELSSSJU PHILLIPS
3&3 B a rmg k St keet.
Government Advertisements.
Department of Public Works,
Sydney, March 4, IS9O.
UNDERS FOR PUBLIC WORKS AN
SUPPLIES.
For Conditions, see Government Gazette.
Nature of Works and Supplies.
Additions, Wilcannia Gaol
Erection of Police (Quarters, Wel-
lington
Repairs Court House, Coonamble
Additions Police Station, New-
castle
Repairs to Byron Bay Jetty
Supp’y, &0., of two-ton Crane for
Cahill’s Wharf, Bellinger River
Stables, Victoria Barracks
Construction of a Landing Stage
at Meuindie, and supply, &c., of
a 2-ton Derrick Crane thereon ]
Construction, &e., of an Air and
Circulating Pump Engine, and a
Surface Condenser for the Hy-
draulic Cranes, Newcastle
Construction of Wharf at North
Codrington, Richmond River
Additions, Post and Telegraph
Office*, Emmaville
Bridge, Ural la Creek, at Uralla
Supply of Turret Clock, Post
Office, Redfern (fresh tenders) |
Supply of Turret Clock, Post
Office, Tenterfiekl (fresh tenders)
Supply of Turret Clock, Post
Office, Ballina (fresh tenders) j
Supply of Turret Clock, Post
Office, Kempsey (fresh tenders) ]
Erection of Post and Telegraph'
Office, Cundletown
Covering Roof, &c., Police Build-
ings, Albury (fresh tenders)
Additions, Hillston Gaol (fresh'
tenders)
Repairs, Courthouse, Howlong
Additions, Cobar Gaol (fresh
tenders)
Erection of Police Buildings,
Menindie (fresh tenders)
Erection of Police Buildings.
Ccwra
Wollongong Courthouse, Wall,
Railidgs, &c.
Erection of Police Buildings, Deep-
water (fresh tenders)
Engineer’s Cottage, Spit Ferry,
Middle Harbour
Additions, &c., Police Buildings,
Narrabri
Wood Paving, Cook’s River-road
Iron Bridge, Lachlan River at
Forbes, Contracts No. 1 and
No. 2
Bridge, Shoal haven River, at
Warri
Additions. (fee., Courthouse,
Broken-hill
Erection of Lock-up, Bombala
Retaining Wall, University Cut-
tings. Contracts No. J and No. 2
Installation of Electric Light,
Bullock Island, Newcastle
Dates to which
Tenders
can be received
at this office.
Wednesday,
March 19,
at 11 o’clock.
Wednesday,
2nd April,
at 11 o’clock.
Wednesday,
April 1.(5 ‘
at 11 o'clock.
Wednesday,
> Ma >» 14,
at 11 o’clock.
BRUCE SMITH.
R Y S TOR EKEE PE HS; ETC.
Should write. or roll upon
A. M. MARKS & CO.,
I.MPOUTKRS of—
Furniture, Pianofortes, Glass, Earthenware,
CHINA, FANCY coons. KT.ECTRO-PLATE,
( ivaiis a roii tn omsts si viujii s
SOLE AGENTS FOR
Dawn Cigars and Salonica Turkish Cigarettes.
Special Novelties in all Lines for Christmas Trade.
Prices on Application, to—
A. IStL. UVUia,i'lts & Go.,
Vickery’s Buildings, 74a Pitt Streeet, Sydney,
AND AT LONDON.
Telephone, No. f>lo.
Ask for the
Unequalled
J
fi: .
“DAWN” 3d. CIGAR,
Store
AND
Hotel
KEEPERS.
Wholesale Agents: A. M, MARKS & Co., 74a PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
te
DAWSON’S
Sole Agents for Australasia
VAUGHAN, EOGEKS & CO.,
(Opposite G.P.0.)
10S PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
ď
WHISKY:
SUB-AGENTS WANTED
IN TUB
PRINCIPAL CENTRES
THROUGHOUT AUSTRALASIA.
jg T 0 R M AND RAIN.
The veritable oldest inhabitant says he has never
seen such weather as tin’s since the Endeavour let-
go her right bower anchor in the blue mud of
Botany Hay. Variable weather, variegated with
intermissions of storm and sunshine the deceit-
ful calm which lulls into security and the tempest
which provokes profanity-tests the temper and
strains the forbearance of most of the sons of men;
but it utterly demoralises a large percentage of
those who are addicted to rheumatism and similar
afflictions. When the fountains of the great deep
are opened at the rate of about six inches per hour,
and a guileless man who has been tempted forth
by a stray ten minutes of sunshine picks himself
up in the middle of the second act far from home,
and without either topcoat or umbrella, it is then
if ever, that he may be forgiven for quoting from
the wrong authority, or turning over two leaves at
a time in bis burry to fine] suitable expression for
his feelings. Were it not for the knowledge that
he has a certain refuge to fly to, lie would be apt
to give way to despair; but his home is never
without a supply of the great pain-conqueror—St.
Jacobs oil —and he remembers it in the midst of
bis denunciations, and hurries off to the best friend
humanity ever bad for the relief of all the ills that
are brought on by a thorough and unexpected
wetting.,
J T II B B () R N I: A 0 T a
ST. JACOBS OIL
Invariably
CONQUERS PAIN.
Cures Backache, Toothache, Headache.
Cures Backache, Toothache, Headache.
Cures Backache, Toothache, Headache,
ST. JACOBS OIL
Positively Cures RHEUMATISM.
Cures Sciatica, Bruises, Lumbago.
Cures Sciatica, Bruises, Lumbago.
Cures Sciatica, Bruises, Lumbago.
ST. JACOBS OIL
Absolutely Cures NEURALGIA.
Cures Inflammations, Sore Throat, Quinsy.
Cures Inflammations, Sore Throat, Quinsy.
Cures Inflammations, Sore Throat, Quinsy.
HE CRUISE OF A WATERBURY.
The “ Cruise of a Waterbnry ” in Alaskan Seas
is not a myth. The facts as published recently
are simple statements which speak volumes for-
th e practical work of the Waterbnry watch. These
timepieces were put upon the market for the pur-
pose of supplying a demand which existed in
reality but was little dreamed of twelve years ago
as a possibility. The very idea of furnishing the
great mass of boys, labourers, farm hands and
mechanics of the poorer as well as the more well-
to-do classes —the bare insinuation that such could
be accomplished seemed a utopian dream. When
the Waterbnry Watch first appeared it was treated
with derision, and for a decade has been the butt
of would-be funny paragraphists ; yet it has lived,
thriven, and by sheer force of intrinsic merit won
its position, proving a veritable blessing to those
whose means were limited. Millions of Water-
bnry Watches have found their way into the hands
of practical, earnest people. They have educated
those wearers to a sense of the necessity of carrying
the time of day. They have stimulated the trade in
higher cost watches, and brought many good general
customers to the retail watch dealers. All through
these years the funny wretches have derided tue
Waterbnry. At last comes tidings of the service
performed by a Waterbnry assisting the navigation
of a vessel in the tempestuous Alaskan waters.
The newspaper scribe seizes the opportunity to de-
nounce the statement as a sea yarn, but —the
newspaper man was too fresh on the saltwater
narrative—a corroboration was forthcoming from
the Navy Department, and the newspaper man
is where?
Gentlemen - “I have carried one of your Wain*
bury's over 12 months, and found it a most correct
timekeeper. I reside in a large boarding-house
with many who have expensive watches, but all
depend upon the Waterbnry, and scarcely a morn-
ing passes but what I am appealed to for the
correct time. The clocks in the house are kept by
the Waterbnry." Yours, &c.,
H. H. Hawkes, Bareom-cresent,
Darlingiiurst.
To the Waterbnry Watch Co.,
Sydney.
MOST CORRECT,
v *!-ST.!_9
f'H
n>
6
Vh
Wa
WTW:
0SOAP
Is made with the utmost care from materials
which are
Selected with the Meet Regard for hritj
and for the
SOOTHING- Si BENEFICIAL EFFECT
Which they impart to the Skin and Complexion.
Sold by all Chemists and Dealers in
Toilet Requisites.
The Referee.
The match between the amateur boxers, Randall
and Valentine, at the Sydney Gymnastic Club’s Rooms,
on Monday night, turned out to be one of the grandest
contests ever seen in Sydney, Both men arc strong and
active and fairly heavy—list, or thereabouts. Both are
New Zealanders, and the average New Zealander is pretty
good at any game lie goes in for. Valentine is a
blacksmith and Sandatl a butcher, and they would,
in rowing circles, come under the definition of
manual-labour amateurs. Anyhow, amateur or not,
they showed some splendid fighting. It is a
curious thing that “ amateur ” matches between
really good men are always better worth seeing than the
professional matches. It is not quite clear whether this
match was for the amateur championship or not. Mr.
George Seale, who has held it so long and worthily, has
not yet been beaten, his mutch with Sandall resulting
technically in a draw ; imt it is stated that he has failed
to take upSandall's challenge, issued since they last met,
Mr. Seale is a bona-fide clerical amateur, and works in an
office, and it lias always been a much-vexed question
whether a man who works under those conditions can
fairly be asked to meet a manual labour man, who
works all day at physical exercise, toughening his
muscles and hardening ins frame. Now and
again a phenomenally quick or clever man, such
as Mr. Seale, will come out of the bona-fide, ranks, but,
on the average, the man who sits at an office desk all
day, and lets his muscles get flaccid and his liver so
large that he has to carry it under his arm, cannot, by a
brief space of training, get himself into the same tough
and tried state of physical endurance as a man who lias
been working daily at a trade and building up his strength
for years. There is a manual labour division in rowing,
and if this is right, then so there should be one in boxing.
But let us to the fight.
* # *
The room was crowded, and, after a few preli-
minary bouts, the two contestants appeared—Sandall,
wonderfully broad-shouldered, full-chested, and muscular,
and looking thoroughly fit; Valentine, more of a cornstalk,
less broad in the shoulder, long and light in the arms and
legs, evidently more active than Sandall. He was so ner-
vous at starting that he hardly knew what he was doing.
Tiie fight began by Sandall lashing out his terrific left
which the other man only just missed. Sandall hits like
the kick of a horse ; the great force of his blows made
Valentine give ground, and as they moved about the ring
lie had all his work cut out to keep Sandall at his distance.
The next round was eventful. They sparred and slogged
away merrily until suddenly Sandall landed a terrible blow
on Valentine’s jaw and dropped him in his tracks. He half
raised himself and stared round stupidly, obviously quite
dazed, and atthe call of time he could only just keepliisfeet;
hut rolled and staggered about the ring making no attempt
to hit, simply keeping away from the blows which
Sandall made at him. There was a few moments’stoppage
owing to tilt cheering and whooping of Sandall’s own
friends ; he thought that the order for corners had been
given and stopped, and this gave Valentine a chance to
pull himself together a bit. He managed to last the
round out, though frightfully groggy, but his seconds
soon got him right again and sent him out for the next
round as good as new. He had now learnt to keep out of
the way of Sandall’s terrific swinging hits and his superb
condition made victory seem possible. Sandall’s friends
were jubilant, saying “Dick will get another one like
that on to him in a minute and down him.” Valentine
began to show great cleverness with his head, duck-
ing in towards Sandall to avoid the heavy hits,
instead of jumping Imck as nine men out of ten would
do. Sandall belted the empty air for the most
part, and Valentine began to hit out, and to hit out
viciously. Once Sandall slipped and half fell, and Valen-
tine gave him a ringing blow as ho was recovering himself;
this perhaps hardly chivalric action was loudly hooted,
but was no infringement of the rules. Valentine made
up for this by lighting with scrupulous fairness all
through the rest of the fight. And what a fight it was !
No walking about the stage, no grunting, no sparring for
wind, no in-and-out-dancing one hit and run away, but
sheer savage slogging, clever enough on both sides and
thoroughly determined. Both men were very strong
and very active, and they fought with the tenacity of
bulldogs. There was not a single round that could
he called slow or tedious. Sandall kept his
powerful hits going, and whenever lie got one
home, he made the other man’s head fly back on his
shoulders, but Valentine, by dint of ducking in towards
him, managed to let most of them go over his shoulder,
and, after a time, his condition and activity told. Sandall
is strongly built, but his legs are not of the best, and he
commenced to get weaker and weaker on his pins. The
light, wiry limbs of his opponent stood him in good stead,
and he began to force matters, and in the last round Sandall
wasknocked down three times, and each (hue he took longer
in coming to scratch than the rules allowed, and then
the matter was settled by Foley, who was seconding
Sandall, jumping into the ring and taking his man away.
So Valentine won the fight, after being so nearly knocked
out that his chance would not have been worth backing at
50 to 1. If Sandall could only have got one more hit on
to him while he was so dazed—exit Valentine. But he
didn’t, and that is just what made the difference. It is
plain that the Sydney Gymnastic Club will quite knock
out the fighting-pub. monopoly of glove-contests, and a
very good thing too. We have just learned that Valentine
is a Scotchman and a married man.
* * *
Yes, ghastly silence fell upon Flemington when
Churchill returned to scale as winner of the Newmarket.
He was one of those horses which the public ought to
have backed, but didn’t, don't you know, for beyond a
select stable party not one man in a thousand had his
sovereign on. Last year Churchill—with ‘24lhs. less to
carry—was fast enough to win an average Newmarket,
but the colt was pegged back into fourth place by,three
exceptional horses in Sedition, Loehiel and Carbine.
Lochiel, a better animal last year than Boz or Fishwife
will ever be, carried ten pounds less than either of them
did on Saturday, and a little thinking over that will show
why Churchill had, as Tun Bulletin' suggested, a “ show,”
even when lie figured as the rankest of outsiders. Rudolph
ran respectably, anil we succeeded, in finding a “shop”
for Sir William beforehand, besides putting in a bad word
for such complete failures as Apropos, Don Oiovan and
Gladstone. But the Wild Oat brought shame upon The
Bulletin’s absolute tip. This is a colt able to do the dis-
tance in 1-15.1 with the weight up, whereas Churchill’s
trainer assures the world that his charge invariably
required six seconds longer for the job at homo. And so
much for the time-test.
* * *
Punters seldom have a worse time than they had
at Flemington on Saturday. Those who didn’t get back a
beggarly trifle of their Newmarket losses by taking even
money about Marco or laying awful odds on Titan and
Carbine had a plunge on Dunkeld for the last race. They
enjoyed the satisfaction of seeing their fancy throw him-
self down at the post, and subsequently try to eat the
starter. Finally, Dunkeld was left 100 yards behind, and
the Charmer romped in. The Charmer had precious few
friends, because it was generally known that the decep-
tive Wild Oat can “ give her 141bs. and lose her.”
* # #
Good judges think that if Mr. James White has
any. show of winning the English Derby he ought to have
a still better chance of taking the Two Thousand Guineas.
Unless Narellan is much better than Kirkham, or vice
versa, Matthew Dawson will try to work the double event
with different horses.
* * #
Hamilton has ruled, and very sensibly,
that “ Pluto” and “Griffo” committed no breach of tne
a^V* V riP v^ ie ‘ V boxed for 1* hours at the Melbourne
A inlet ic Club. After hearing evidence, his Honor placidly
intimated that the “celebrated light weights” didn't
hurt one another, so neither party was guilty of an actual
assault.
• * *
The Paris grand steeplechase, a weight for ag e
race open to all horses, this year has £5OOO added money
Two other steeplechases and at least two hurdle races at
the same meeting will have sums of ,£2OOO added. Here
is a field for Australian enterprise—for there are no jump-
ing horses, or for the matter of that cross country riders,
.n France or England to compare with our best.
What a moral it is on the gambling-machine
a lien a gallant horse like Churchill, starting at, say, 30 to
I, wins a Newmarket Handicap with hardly a cheer!
Everybody is “on the make.” Only the Jewry jump on
their ’ats. Shemarbonee ! Fetch out a hay-rake. The
public has been putting a funnel into the mouth of
J. Methusalem, and pouring in the sovereigns
n .til he is full right up to the gullet. Shake ’em down.
More ! More !
* # #
A late issue of London Pink ’Un contains five
and a-half columns concerning racing at Uuenos Ayres
and never a word concerning the Australian turf.
ft
Miller has beaten Duncan Ross in a Graeco-
Roman wrestle by three falls to two.
* # #
Oarsman O’Connor has arrived in Sydney per
Mariposa from ’Frisco. He comes at a good time of the
year, and very probably will take away the championship
if they give him a chance of a decisive match at once.
* * *
They say that Sir Joshua, formerly of N.S.W.,
hut now of Ballarat, will have a great big “go’’for 11 ic
Steeplechase. Hitherto, Sir Josh, has been no good at
Flemington, owing, .perhaps, to feeling strange over a
course which runs in the opposite direction to Randwick’s.
In Soobie’s hands he is reported to have improved vastly,
and learned to jump the right-hand way like a bird.
# # *
Smith’s backers squared Slavin not to say much
about the knuckle-duster business, whereupon the Pelican
Club renounced Slavin (as they had renounced Smith), and
his intended purse of sovereigns suddenly dried up. Dirty
business all round.
* # *
In the ordinary course of events the arrival of
American sculler O’Connor should make things hum on
colonial waters, but we are afraid O'Connor has a bad time
in. front of him before getting on a match for the cham-
pionship. With the farce of a race for the title on between
Kemp and Matterson, O’Connor is blocked, unless he
makes a match with Stansbury ; and should the American
beat the latter, he is no nearer the goal of his ambition,
although he will, without doubt, have beaten the best
man in the Australias, for it is an open secret that Stans-
bury can row over his “stable companion,” Kemp, in
their practice. O’Connor has come a long way to
meet our best men, and it seems a pity and
it will be a scandalous reproach to Australia
should there be any juggling to keep him out of
a match. It is well known that the meeting between
Kemp and Matterson was merely made by their respective
backers as a stop-gap in the event of the Yankee popping
up serenely and challenging Kemp, when, if the former
had won, he might have at once cleared out without
giving Stansbury a chance of retaining the title in Aus-
tralia. However, a more sportsmanlike way could have
been found out of the difficulty by Kemp and Stansbury
meeting in a match, or by the former handing over the
championship to Stansbury—or by the arrangement of a
big sweepstake for all comers, to be rowed in single heats.
James, boy, take wholesome advice, and do not lose your
your opportunity. Gain the championship—if you are
able—at the .earliest opportunity, and then wade in for all
the dollars the title is worth. Should you die before so
doing, your hangers-on might order you a gorgeous
funeral—and even let your parent# pay for it.


Business Announcements.
DDimw o nn
Hats made to Order-
If' OF HAT jS''
JIERCERV^
Morley’s Hosiery.
438 George Street, Sydney.
Branch— 678 George Street, Brickfield Hill.
PROBLEM OF TO-DAY -WHERE CAN WE GET GOOD
BOOTS ?—SOLVED AT LAST.
3E3. IF” 3FSL 3E3 3XT O Jc3C
(The French of years ago)
Can supply Residents here with Boots better made than
ever. Boots that must wear well and give satisfaction.
Send your orders then to 82 Oxford Street, and be sure
to enclose Sizes and Remittance, when your parcel will be
sent at once by Post, Kail, or Steamer.
Notice Prices for Boots that look well, wear well
and fit well.
Children’s Elastic-sides, 2/-, 2/11, 3/0, 4/'-, 4/0, etc \ Best
Men's & Youths’ ditto, 5/6, 6/-, 0/0, 7/0, 8/0, etc. /'Boots
Men’s & Boys’ Bluchers, 2/11, 4/-, 5/-, 0/-, best ever made.
A Line of Stylish Laced Boots for Best Wear
(Boys', Youths’ and Men’s Sizes).
0T ENGLISH BOOTS f>r LADIES, CHILDREN, etc.,
Sent as ordered. Lowest Price.
Satisfaction given or Money Returned. t
Note the Address :
ECLIPSE BOOT CO.,
81 Oxford Street. SVOVEV.
E. Frf.nch, Manager.
j7~ l u dowTo r ~&~s~o¥7,
Manufacturers and Importers of
Superior Oak-Tanned Leather Eeltl. g,
And every description of
Leather goods for Machine and Engineering Purposes
Hydraulic
bush®B>
Tangya Pump
Leathers.
All fjords bearing the above Trade Mark arc warranted to
give satisfaction, or may bo returned at our expense.
Office and Factory: 163 Clarence-St., Sydney,
Between King and Market Street’s.
TO ADVERTISERS.
We undertake the advertising of large business
houses—filing every paper advertised in, checking
appearances, and watching the interests of our
clients. We can save you money, time and
s'nxiety. Write for our pamphlet “How to
Advertise, and Why.” F. T. WIMBLE & CO.,
Newspaper Advertising Bureau, Basement A.J.S.
Bank, 001, 371 & 373 Georgc-st., Sydney. Estimates
given for any number of papers by return mail.
i£&a
R
ows
».*
*l®
/(ir
/
t
)/ /
m
OOLEMane&sons
Eucalypte Oiusa.
' >
i
Victory Ointments
THE TREE OF LIFE .
m gS&SfttiS
The only pure Euealypte in the World,
WARDED Gold Medal Adelaide Jubilee
. Exhibition. First Prize Great Centennial
Exhibition, Sydney. The only known CURE for
Asthma, Bronchitis, Consumption, Pleurisy,
Colds, Coughs, and all affections of the Chest and
Lungs; also, for Gout, Rheumatism, Sciatica,
etc. Our VICTORY OINTMENT stands with-
out a rival for Bad Legs, Bad Breasts, Cancers,
Tumours, and skin diseases of all kinds. Also,
manufacturers of the Euealypte Pills, Euealypte
Hair Restorer, Euealypte Soap, and our world
famed Euealypte Roney is the best preparation
before the public for young Children and age<’
people. Also, makers of the Euealypte Lozenges
for the Voice. Manufactorj— Cootamundha.
Sydney Wholesale Depot -251 Elizabkth Strkkt
Posted to any part of the Colon'cs. Fold Eve y
aa hero. Hewake of Imitations.
Aarons’ Exciiangre Hotel. Byclncy.
L':.
i i
1
:
v
i
ill
> ;
A
■V -
Adjoining ttie Sydney Exchange.
Mining, Financial and General Mercantile Intelligence
Posted several times DAILY in the Bull ing.
TELEGRAPH, POST and MONEY ORDER OFFICES on the PREMISES.
(")
This Hotel has been thoroughly renovated and re-furnishccl, and is now unrivalled for comfort
ncl attention.
Aarons’ Exchange Hotel Co. (Limited), Proprietors.
TO HAIRDRESSERS.
IF you want any requisite in connection with the trade send to CRAIG <x AITKEF,
who are in the trade themselves and know what is required. Drop us a line oi give us a call and
we will fix you up as regards price. They have in stock :
Hairdressing Chairs (/-mer’ccn ard Colonial), Shampooing Basins, Taps and /nnarafn*
Hot Water Urns, Mirrors, Barbers’ Poles, Aprons, Cutting Clothes, Kackcis Pressing
Crimping and other Irons, etc., etc.—in fact, everyth’mr you w: n‘. ’
Just Arrived.—A Large Shipment of all sizes BROWN & SHARPE’S HAIRCLIPPERS.
be
Every Brand of RAZORS and SCISSORS kept.
We engage Competent Assistants for any part of the Australian colonies, and guarantee thev will
First-Class Workmen', as we thoroughly test them in our own saloon before sending them.
Send for Price List to their Only Address :
SBO & 682 George Street, Brickfield Hill, Sydney.
•s •
1.11 >i-
r •'; j. f
■ >asa
xtp?B
/■y.
c '
' ' . »ft
lS*
, v
UECTBIC PHOTO-ENO. CO-. 8 OBIDCE-ST- SYDNEY-
The Uxlord Hotel, King Street;, Sydney,
••• ••• ■■• PrOPRIETOR.
H. THORPE
JONES’ SEWING MACHINES,
FOR THE BOOT AND TAILORING TRADES.
The Best Manufacturing Machines in Existence*
Now Perfected, the New No. 3 and No. 4 Machines on an Entirely new System.
STOCK
Farleig-ti,
TANNERS
16 x YORK
JTJST ILi .A. IST ID I UST Q-.
Mettheim, &
AND LEATHER MERCHANTS,
x STREET, x SYDNTEY.
Co.,
Solo Agents for the above for Now South Wales and Queensland
(x )-
ALSO Importers of Keqmsilcs for Hie MOOT MANUFACTURING TKAOE in all be* ails iml. rfi,,.* v
IMI’OKTKI> LKAIHEKS, &e. : and of the following Smiu Links: Peerless (.!«« o V ’
Itlmking Tanners'Tools and Materials. C*r~ Indents Executed on Favourable Terms'’
Medical.
DR. RICHARDS.
fill'll
» O. !
g
" 'f."ir*ir!7rxr
HR RICHARDS -
*r
| This eminent Specialist, Founder, and Chief
! Surgeon of the long-established and favourably-
known Dispensary that now bears his name, re-
ceived his medical education in the leading college?
and hospitals of Europe. He has devoted a life-
time to the study of
PRIVATE, NERVOUS, AND SKIN
DISEASES.
He has by profound research thoroughly investi-
gated their origin, traced their deadly sources and
insidious dissemination, and ascertained the surest
and safest methods by which they may bo eradi-
cated, with these widely r> cognised qualifications
combined with unswerving faithfulness to hi?
patients, he has during his practice, extending
over FORTY YEARS, attained a well-deserved
pre-eminence in their treatment. IMs practico
embraces d : seas o s which probably cause more un-
bapp-'ness than any other class of troubles that
afflict mankind.
YOUNG MEN
who suffer from the results of early follies, trans-
gressions or excesses of more nature ago, b'addec
difficulties, a whitish or dark ropy fcd'mont in
the water, accompanied by slight burning or
smarting sensation, Headaches, Drowsiness during
the day, circles round the eyes, Giddiness,
irregularity of the bowel*, specks before the eyes,
ba t hfulness, discontentedness, weakness or pains
in the back. Liver or kidney complaints, dreams,
buzzing noises in the ears and head, pimples, a
fear that something dreadful is about to happen,
weak stomach, yellow or blood-shot eyes, impure
blood, hasty, uncontrollable temper, hacking
cough, who cannot marry, nervousness in society,
wakefulness, palpitation of the heart, general
weakness, and other symptoms which lead to in-
sanity and death, should consult him, for he has
mastered these difficulties. On receipt of 6d. in
stamps he will send secure from observation in a
plain wrapper, postage
FREE, A LARGE CLOTH- BOUND
BOOK.
Showing plainly how all diseases of the private or
nervous system may be cured thoroughly and per-
manently without unnecessary expence. This
book will prove a valuable companion, and even
though you be perfectly well its general inform-
tion and prescription may assist you in restoring
some poor friend to health even after his case has
been pronounced incurable by his medical at-
tendant.
ONE POUND IS SUFFICIENT TO
SEND
for Remedies necessary for the cure of NER-
VOUS DEBILITY. Should you require medical
treatment, as procrastination is sometimes dan-
gerous, it would bo advisable for you to sit down
quietly in your chamber and write to the doctor,
detailing every experienced symptom. Ho will
on receipt of such a letter, write you, promptly
and courteously, a candid and straightforward
oponion of your case. If you do not think you
understand the case, send for his famous medical
work, the price of which isbutsixpsneo ; enclosed
in the volume will be found a list of carefully-pre-
pared questions, which will, in all probability,
assist you materially in describing your ailment.
Dr. Richards uses nothing but the purest remedies,
and never prescribes mercury under any circum-
stances. The moment letters are carefully per-
used and answered they are destroyed by lire,
and patients may rest assured that their cases
will remain a secret between the doctor and
themselves. Dr. Richards has successfully treated
nearly 25,000 cases since coming to Australia, and
has permission from at least 10,000 persons to
show their written evidence of his success. All
communications should be addressed
Dr. RICHARDS,
■7 Spring Street
(Off Pitt Street North)
s Y D 3T E Y.
Be sure to mention this i*xpcr when writing
CONSULTATION PBEE.
FEMALE NOVELIST: "Darling, I have been untrue
to you. I love another.”
HUSBAND: “W-h-a-t! !!**!*???***?-?”
FEMALE NOVELIST: “Calm yourself, dear, calm
yourself; that is only what nay new
heroine says toiler husband, and I wanted
to see how the husband would act.” —Ex.


An old Australian pressman (the fellow
who once sang out from the parliamentary re-
porters’ gallery that the Ministry were a set of
idiotic fools) has just had a comical experience
with Boss Syme, of Melbourne Age. Those who
know the tall, gaunt, and terrible Dictator of Yic-
tona will appreciate the reckless temerity exhi-
i a j y the humble pressman as here to bo
related—a temerity, by the way, which Is only a
i ° a ornlet ‘ sceile of violent language.
Whrth last famark necessitates going back some
*r Id years, when Boss David ruled his rc-
porters with a rod of iron and a dyspeptic liver,
which sometimes became a volcano of unreportable
invective. At one time this pressman, then a
young cub and never a 10st. man at any time,
upon being reprimanded one morning in choice
Billingsgate, proposed to throw the six-foot David
out of Ins own window, alid a howling tragedv
Ss only prevented by the commercial staff bear-
struggling reporter to a more congenial
ace th the London Tavern, next to the
then Age office, in Elizabeth-street. David over-
looked, to the surprise of everybody, this office
treason, and the cub continued to flourish on the
literary staff until the day of the annual picnic, or
wayzegoose, which was that year held at Sun-
bury. C n that Occasion the cub proposed to
fight the boss’s nephew, and all his retainers,
and organised a BalJyhooly on his own peculiar
principles when illuminated with whisky and
insomnia. That put a set on the Age’s annual
picnics, for, we understand, none has been held
since. And the cub trot his conge. It was reason-
ably thought, therefore, that when, with a dozen
years of added experience and the cub
presented himself to Boss Syme, lie would be re-
buffed at the outer portal. But, to everyone’s
astonishment, he Was ranked straight aWay on the
Age staff, at a comfortable salary, the under-
standing being that he had sown his'wild oats and
was now a “quiet and reasonable being.” Our
joker behaved admirably at first. He had gone
through all the perils of a sea voyage and an over-
land trip as a strict teetotaller, and he buckled to
w»rk With ft Oold-blooded gravity worthy of a
better cause. He passed unscathed through
several chanipag 1 ne functions and whisky fare-
wells, and seemed set teetotally on the side of the
cold-water advocates. But, in an evil hour, he
was sent to an Evangelical Mission Meeting and
when after a few hours of stirring gospel addresses,
a brother fep.” invited him to take a drink he
decided to slake his missionary absorptions with
a long beer —which became, of course, several
beers long drawn out ere our joker decided that his
presence was urgently required by the pietists
in order to wind up their meeting. He had got as
far as moving the president out of the chair, call-
mg several eminent Christians and divines so
, many this-and-that asses when he was gently but
firmly led out by his voluptuous ear, and placed
where he had a full View of the nearest pub. He
continued his mission in that den of pizen, and it
is needless to say that the Age had no progress
mission-reports next day. Our hero duly received
a Chestertieldian compliment from the office
where he has only once since turned up. That
occasion was unique in its Way. There was a
little difficulty about a week’s salary, and he at-
tempted to walk in on his ear upon Boss Syme to
enforce his claim. Syme made tracks downstairs
and jumped upon a passing tram, but our friend,
with a hiccoughy whoop, was after him, and.
m a tnoe, seated by his side on the dummy,
gripping the boss’s knee with his right
hand, while Che left arm waved excit
mgly in parabolic curves through the air
and the tongue gave vent to hyperbolic utter
ances about larsh, hie! week’s screw, hie!
It was not until the tram-conductor came alone
with “Fare, please!' that the excited petitiotiei
remembered that he was thrumless. With a
fetopshor ear, please, " he waved off the conductor.
“ Wanter get down here?” cried the conductor
why, you havn’t come two blocks!” “Nc
matter ; ’portant bish’ness, hie, forgot.” The car
stopped. “ Fare, please,” reiterated the conduc
tor. “ Imsh shem’man 'll pay,” pointing to Boss
Syme-and before the conductor could size up
the situation, the penniless pressman was career
mg full split along Russell-street. Then the car
“moved on.” Whether Boss Syme did or did
not pay that three-pence is not on the record.
Macaulay says, Dr. Johnson frequently
offended more senses than one. The Doctor did
not use McDonald’s Perfect Nail Trimmer and
Cleaner, AH chemists. Price one shilling.
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
Everybody should use Pemell’s latest beet Snow-white
Patent Holler Flour. It is the greatest success of tlm
age.
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
The Melbourne Daily Telegraph was the
only Melbourne paper that declined to notice the
inaugural dinner of the Victorian Reporters’
Association.
NOTICE.
SLANDERED MEMORY.
A NEW NOVEL.
Is Commenced in
FAMILY HERALD PART for JANUARY,
1 which contains also the continuation of
NEIGHBOURS.
NEW NOVEL,
A By the Author of “Tiff,” “A Great Mis
take,” &c.
And the
CHRISTMAS DOUBLE NUMBER,
Containing
n RANGES AND LEMONS,
’' A complete Novel,
j»y the author of “Wedded Hands,” “Madam’
Ward,” &c.
Also, complete Stories, Essays, Answers tc
Correspondence, Cookery, Miscellanea, Enigmas
Charades, Riddles, (fee.
JjIAMILY HERALD PART for JANUARY.
The
FAMILY HERALD may be had in Half-yearly
Volumes and in Monthly Parts of all Colonial
Booksellers and Newsagents ; or the Monthly Part
direct from W. Stevens, 421 Strand, London,
England., for 14s. per annum, post free.
JOHN BRIDGE & 0 0.,
CIRCULAR QUAY, SUSSEX STREET, &
DARLING HARBOUR,
WOOL BROKERS,
Hides, Tallow, Sheepskins, Kangaroo, Bear and
■ OppssUra Skins, «Cr.
ZEISES.
C3m.A.I3XT BALERivrynvr.
Notice to Artistic and Literary Contributors
SrructLV Original matter contributed to Tim Bulletin
Will be paid for. The Editor will be <jlad to receive and
Consider contributions as under ;-*■
L Original humorous or political matter , illustrated or
otherwise. (Drawings nlust bo made in clean lines
bf Indian Ink on white pdpCr or Dristol-board.)
3. unpublished Hneedotbt of living celebrities, or people
who ought to he celebrated.
S. Humorous poems (from eight to forty-eight lines pre-
ferred.
h. Seiions poems, of similar or greater length, especially
those suitable lor pictorial illustration.
°. Short Australian or other stories, up to, say, 3000
words.- About half that length, or even less, will
hr. pro "erred.
All Contributions must b 6 WjUTtux LHGtCLY, on One
Side Only of the paper, find folded, not rolled . The
nam and' address of the writer must appear, in all
eases, on the.3lS. itself, and not ’merely on an accompany-
ing letter or paper. The Proprietors do not hold them-
selves responsible for Dejected Contributions; but, if
accompanied by a stamped and addressed envelope or
u iapipei, ci cry effort will he made to return them.
The Editor dobs not mutmakti to enter into any
correspondence respecting rejected Manuscripts.
Business Announcements.
- AUSTRALIAN—
S°ller iflour and grain gtorc6,
GRANVILLE, N.H.\v/°
Sydney office: - 173 CLARENCE STREET
(near King Street).
Bnmton’s Patent Roller Flour
—awarded —
ihe highest Order ot Merit et every Competition,
AND
“Special Recommendation” of the Jurors of the
Melbourne International Centennial Exhibition
ISSS-59. ’
NOW ACKNOWLEDGED
- TH E BEST
IN THE MARKET
WHISKY
a I
Fra JLJft
SOLD
EVERYWHERE
H. H. Leach,
SUCCESSOR TO
B. MODINI, Gunmaker, informs his Customers
■ and the Public in general that he has the largest
assortment of Firearms in the colony. Qualities and prices
to defy competition. Guns by the following celebrated
gun makers Purdbv & Sons, Cm Roswell, John Rigby
and Co., Joseph Lang & Sons, Oh. Osborne & Co., Thomas
Bland & Son. A large assortment of various other makers
always on hand, viz., W. W. Greener, Scott, Webley
Hollis & Sons, Riley and Cashmore. All goods will be
faithfully guaranteed at 602 George-street, Sydney
Price list on application. J '
Study your Eyes.
C}l LCTACLES of every description to suit all sights
from Is. to ss. Pebbles, ss. to 10s. Gauge for testing
your sight. Price List and a Treatise on “Vision and the
Use of Spectacles,” sent Free.
w * K* TOOSK, Spectacle Maker A Optician,
418 George Street, Sydney.
Awarded Nine Medals at various Exhibitions.
WOOL. "WO OIL..
THE NEW ZEALAND
Loan L Mercantile Agency
COMPA NY. LIMI T E D.
BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Capital, £4,500,000 ... Reserve, £270,000
Wool Season* ISSS-89*
Regular Sabs of Wool Held Throughout the
Season.
THE greatest care bestowed on the Valuation 1 and the
Displaying and Protkctino all Wools entrusted to
the Company for sale, whet her from large or small clips.
IfS?” Gromrg A da'ml and Consulted with before Sales
of their Clips are made .
Liberal CJasii Advances, where desired, on Wool lieu
of Ensuing Clip, and on Wool and other Produce, whether
for sale in Sydney or shipment to London.
Auction Sales op Sheep Skins, Marsupial
Skins, Hides, Tallow, &c., Held Regularly.
U-SP” livery Information Supplied on Application.
G. S. CAMPBELL, Manager.
SYDNEY WOOL & GRAIN WAREHOUSES
Bridge and Loptus Streets.
Shipping,
■fTNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF NEW
ZEALAND, Limited.
SAN FRANCISCO ROYAL MAIL SERVICE.
OVERLAND ROUTE TO ENGLAND VIA SAN
FRANCISCO AND NEW YORK,
Calling at
Auckland and" Honolulu,
Avoiding alike the heat of the Red Sea and the cold
of Cape Horn.
. under Contract with the Poslniasters Oeneral of Nev
South Wales and New Zealand, the steamers of this lin
are appointed to leave Sydney and Auckland for Honoluh
and San Francisco every four weeks, sailing as under:
Steamer, iTons.
I Leave
Commander. I Sydney
! at 4 p.m.
Arrive at
San
Francis'.o,
Mariposa 80C0 11, M, llayttftrd March 19 April
Zealandia 3000 kail Oterendorp April 16 May
Each steamer carries a duly qualified surgeon.
0 arc fitted with Electric'Light and with i
Refrigerating Chaliiber for ship provisions, insuring r
plentiful supply of ice throughout the vovage.
Passengers are booked to San Francisco or through t«
European destinations and have at San Francisco choice ol
the unrivalled Atlantis Steamship Lines of the Cunard,
Inman, White Star, and other companies.
All first-class passengers are allowed 3501 b. of
to San Francisco and 2501 b. “Overland ” free of charge *
THROUGH FARE TO LIVERPOOL.
FIRST-CLASS £63 to £66.
lime-cards, railway maps, and gu de books, showing al
routes to any point in the United States, may bo had or
application
. For of passage and freight and al! other informa
-ion apply at the Company’s Offices, 15 Bridge-street.
FREDK. W. JACKSON, Manager.
fTtOMPAGNIE DES MESSAGERIES MARI-
v TIMES.
SYDNEY to LONDON.
OVERLAND FROM MARSEILLES via PARIS.
Steameis under postal contract with the Government oi
France, calling at MELBOURNE ADELAIDE KL\(;
GEORGE’S SOUND, MAHE, SUEZ, and PORT SAID
Passengers booked to KURRACHEE, BOMBAY
MAURITIUS, and EAST COAST of AFRICA.
The service is carried on by powerful steamers of 4001
tons and 3000 effective h.p., built expressly for the Aus
trahan and New Caledonian line, which will be despatched
as follows
Steamers.
YAHRA
AUSTRALIA
Commander.
Bonllard
Didier ..
Leave Sydney Leave Mel-
at 11 a.m. bourne4 p.m
March 25 : March 28
April 25 April 28
And thenceforward on the 25th of each month.
■ , of Passage-money to Marseilles from £2O to £65
' n l?.^^ e ' nt s al 'd Sue« Canal dues on passengers.
RKTLRN TICKETS issued at the following rates:
đ
English interpreters meet through passengers for
London on arrival of steamers at Marseilles, and accom-
pany them to Paris and Calais. N. 11.—Passengers’ lutreage
conveyed free of cost from Marseilles to London. °For
freight, passage, and further particulars apply at the
Company s Office, 16 Macquarie-place.
A. CONIL, Principal Agent.
Business Announcements.
Anglo Scandinavian
Cold Medal
Condensed
Milk.
Acknowledged
The Best
COMMERCIAL TRAVELLERS, TOURISTS, &c.
o
ROYAL HOTEL, LITHGOW,
The leading resort for
Commercial Travellers, and. Tourists.
The Largest Sample Rooms on the Western Line. Horses and Buggies for Hire.
Nothing but the Best Brands of spirits sold over the bar.
Hugh Wallace, Proprietor. Late of Wallerawang.
Dro.p 3ry.
HORDERN,
TAILOR,
207 Pitt Street.
Shipping.
JJUDDART, PARKER and CD ’s J.INE
STEAM TO MELBOURNE AND
TASMANIA.
FROM HUDDART, PARKER’S WHARF
FOR MELBOURNE WHARF DIRECT—
E LING AMITE | 4000 tons I Tuesday, March 11. at 6p.m
BURRUMBELT | 4000 tons | Satmday, March 15, noon.
FOR LAUNCESTON, VIA M KLBOURNE—
transhipping to S.S. NEWCASTLE.
LLINGAMITE | 4000 tons | Tuesday, Maicn is, o p.m.
These magnificent Steamships hare already establishec
i reputation for their accommodation, and their larges z
insures passengers a maximum of comfort. The SALOON
OA BINS arc light and airy and very roomy, FOKE
CABIN is on main deck, lofty and well ventilated. Com
plete sanitation and lavatorns. ELECTRIC.LIGHTING
throughout the ships. Inspection invited on days o
sailing.
RETURN TICKETS AVAILABLE FOR SIX MONTHS
I or rates of Freight and Passage-money apply
HUDDART, PARKER & CO., Limited.
Offices and Wharf—Foot of Margaret-street.
EXCURSIONS.
Tja ASMANIAN
The splendid
S. S. ELINGAMITE, 4000 Tons,
will sail for HOBART DIRECT
on
TUESDAY , MARCH 11, at 5 p. in*
GREAT REDUCTION IN FARES.
SALOON .. .. .. £i n n
RETURN .. .. 110 o
STEERAGE 0 10 0
RETURN TICKETS AVAILABLE FOR SIX MONTHS
Also GREAT REDUCTION IN FREIGHT.
HUDDART, PARKER & CO, Limited.
Office and Wharf—Foot of Margaret Street.
NORDDEUTSCHER LLOYD
IMPERIAL GERMAN MAIL.
I assengers are carried according to the reouirements of
the English Passenger Acts of 1885 and 1863.
MONTHLY LINE OF DIRECT STEAMERS
from
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, and ADELAIDE
to SOUTHAMPTON, ANTWERP, and BREMEN, via
COLOMBO, Aden, Suez, and Genoa,
hiKing passengers for London,
connecting from PORT SAID by DIRECT MAIL and
PASSENGER LINE to BRINDISI,
will be despatched as follows (if practicable):—
d
And thereafter every four weeks.
PASSAGE MONEY from SYDNEY,
£14 to £67 10s.
RETURN TICKETS, available for NINE and TWELVE
MONTHS, at REDUCED RATES.
Passengers and Cargo are booked through to New York
via Southampton.
Special facilities are afforded for bringing out relatives
and friends from the United Kingdom and Europe by pre-
payment of the passage money in Australia.
1 or FREIGHT, PASSAGE, and all further particulars
apply to FREDK. BETZ & CO., Agents, 5 O’Connell-street!
IREOT SERVICE ~TO ENGLAND.
D
PENINSULAR AND ORIENTAL STEAM
NAVIGATION COMPANY.
The Company s Royal Mail Steamships (under contract
with the Imperial, New South Wales, Victorian, and South
Australian Governments) will be dispatched from their
\\ hart, Circular Quay, as under, for LONDON, calling at
Melbourne, Adelaide, Albany, Colombo, Aden, Brindisi,
Malta, Gibraltar, and Plymouth.
đ
And henceforth every alternate week.
RESERVED GARINS ON MODERATE TERMS
SALOON PASSENGERS MAY BREAK THEIR JOURNEY
The arrangements for SECOND SALOON PASSENGERS
having' been thoroughly re-organised, the accommodation
now offered is unsurpassed. Passage-money can he paid
here for passages from England. Liberal concessions made
to families. Passengers, cargo, and parcels are booked
through to India, China, and Japan. Cargo and parcels
will not be received after 3 p.m. on the day previous to
sailing. For all information apply at the Company’s
Offices, 217 George-street. A. MACLEAN Acting Agent.
I ISTORY OF BOTANY BAY.
PRICE-ONE SHILLING.
ALL AGENTS and BOOKSELLERS.


liKAi) THIS.—A few quotations from 11. C.
Armstrong’s
extensive Dill) Gr GIST S’ SUNDRIES, STOCK LIST.
Single Trusses ... ...
Double Trusses ...
Men’s Strengthening Belts and Supports ...
Women's ditto ditto
Men’s and Women's Magnetic and Electric
Belts, Supports and Corsets ...
From
i)
n
>i
it
3/6
6/6
2/6
4/5
6/6
d
Chest Protectors (various colours, all sines) From 1 /'—
Respirators for the Mouth (various kinds) ,, 2/~
Mother's Nursing Aprons anil Bibs ... ,, 1/d
India-rubber Water Dottles, screw top, two
pints to one gallon ... ... ... >> 12/6
Finest Turkey Toilet Sponges
Finest Turkey Bath Sponges
Pocket Spirit and Oil Lumps for
Water and Food ...
Picsse & Lukins’ Perfumes
Pears’ assorted Toilet, Soaps
Boiling
Prom I*l
„ »/-
„ 2 h
ill per doz.
4/6 per doz.
tsr
Kindly send for complete PRICE LIST, which includes all H. C.
A RMSTRONO’S WELL- KNO WN PRO FRI ETA RY MEI >IC IN EB.
Note the Addrrx. s-.
H. O. AHMSTROIVTa, 156 George Street KTortli, Sydney
(NEAR CIRCULAR QUAYI;
And at WILOANNIA, BROKEN HILL, SI LV EH TON and MOUNT BROWNE, N.S.W.
One of England’s noble lords —Walsingham
—preserves partridges on a system of cheap philan-
thropy. He allows a shilling per head for every
bird shot on his estate, the total amount of " part-
ridge money ” being divided among Ins lordship’s
cottagers at the end of the season. Last year each
tenant got a bonus of 18s (id. Considering that a
dead partridge is worth 35., Walsingham probably
makes money by this anti-poaching scheme.
Chief-Justice Lilley, of Queensland, the
man who goes “ for independence, peaceably if it
may be, but independence anyway,” is strangely
ticklish about his age. If he were a woman he
would be always sweet seventeen ; as he hasn’t
got that feminine privilege and can’t fiat , or habeas
eorpus, or injunct, or otherwise abduct himself
into it, ho is strictly of no age whatever. Approxi-
mately he is in the sixties with twenty years life
in him yet.
Hotels.
PFAHLERT’S HOTEL,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.,
Opposite the Park, Wynyard Square,
(Under New Management.)
mHIS for 25 years well-known First-class Central Hotel,
-L recently thoroughly renovated throughout, has every
comfort and attention of a home. The Cuisine Department
is under competent French supervision. Dining Room
open for Non-Residents. Open-air Recreation Garden.
A well-ventilated Billiard Room adjoining Recreation
Ground (three Alcoek’s best Tables), under the manage-
ment of A. Buckingham, late of Empire Hotel. Wines
and Spirits of the very best quality only, and the Finest
and Coolest Bar in Town
HOT AND COLD BATHS,
f#" \u;irr PORTER. French |
German
Telephone >o. 150. Italian j
Spoken.
SPECIAL SUITES FOR FAMILIES.
CHAS. HECHT ... Manager.
GUNTHER’S BRISBANE CAFE,
George Street (below Hunter-st.), Sydney.
XT'RED. GUNTHER, late of the Wheatsheaf Hotel,
G Castlereagh-st., is desirous of informing his patrons
and the public generally that he has now become pro-
prietor of the BRISBANE CAFE, GEORGE STREET.
These premises are commodious, and every convenience is
obtainable. None but liquors of the first quality retailed.
Two of Alcock’s Prize Billiard Tables provided. Files of
sporting and dramatic papers kept. Special accommoda-
tion for the theatrical profession.
BOOK OB MATURE.
ď
book: ob :et atube. •
BOOK or NATURE and Illustrated Matri-
monial Guide.— A full and explicit explanation
of the structure and uses of the organs of life and genera-
tion in man and woman, intended especially for the
married, or those intending to marry, and who conscien-
tiously and honestly desire to inform themselves upon the
intent and nature of marriage and its dyties, to which is
added a complete MEDICAL TREATISE upon all diseases
of the generative organs, whether resulting from infection
or sexual excesses and abuse, with much Other valuable
and highly important information, illustrated with more
than fifty engravings, by M. Lafayette Byrn, M.D. ; price
3/6, post 4/-. The Fruits of Philosophy or Private Com-
panion for Married People, post 1/2. Mrs. Besant’s Law of
Population, 1/-, post 1/2. Wonderful Song Book, extra
large, 1/6. Aristotle, complete, 3/6, post 4/-. Maria Monk,
1/6, post 1/9. New complete Fortune Teller, 2s. “The
Matron’s Manual or Midwifery,” the book every married
woman needs ; price 7/-, posted 7/6. “The Male Genera-
tive Organs,” their use and abuse, with many illustrations
and coloured plates; price 7/-, posted 7/6. The arts of
Boxing, Swimming and Gymnastics made easy, enabling
anyone to become an expert boxer or athlete, illustrated
with fifty engravings ; price 1/-. “ Marriage as it was, as
it is, and as it should be,” by Mrs. Besant; 1/-, posted 1/2.
Dr. Foote’s Plain Home Talk, new edition, over 200 illu-
strations; 7/6, post free. “The Labour Movement in
America,” by Aveling, post free 1/6. Matrimony, or
Phrenology and Physiology applied to the selection of
Congenial Companions for Life, 6d. The Elements of
Social Science ; 3/6, posted 4/-. Nigger Songs, 6d. Henry
George’s Works all at 1/-, posted 1/4. Works of Ingersoll,
Paine, Bradlaugh, Besant, Foote. Send for catalogue.
EOBEET BEAB,
Radical Book Stores,
1 PARK STREET. SYDNEY.
A young married woman named Hyde lias
killed her husband at Dungandon (Q.) by putting
strychnine into his scones. This is refreshing.
We were sick to death of hearing about ‘’rough-
on-rats.”
From an English paper :
Mary Cummings has been lined ss. at Birmingham for
conveying tobacco into prison. She had placed an ounce
of tyvisl in a pork pie intended for her husband.
We will wager that if such a pork nie had been
placed before the clients of the ordinary Australian
boarding-house, they would have eaten it, and not
only relished it, but they would have suspected
nothing.
From 17 acres, Mr. Brown, a N.S.W,
vigneron, had a yield of 550ga1. to the acre, valued
at the press at Is. per gallon, giving the handsome
return of £467 10s.; cost of labour, £l3O ; leaving a
net profit of £337 10s. This means £2O an acre.
How are the liquor-prohibitionists going to meet
a £2O-per-acre argument in favour of “the mocker?”
We know few of the temperance party who are
unprepared to listen to such solid arguments.
Emperor William “honoured” the British
army with a ridiculous message of sympathy when
Napier of Magdala handed in his checks. The
funeral procession of that decent old nigger-killer
was “ witnessed by a tremendous crowd,” we are
told. As a great military spectacle it fell short of
the desired effect, however, most of the onlookers
being persons wanting employment, who received
each specially gaudy man in buckram with deri-
sive shouts of “What is it ?”
Jimmy Tyson, the big squatter, who is
probably worth over five millions, and whose
station of Meteor Downs is being stuck up by the
federated unions for a rouseabout’s wage of 30s. a
week, owns 220,748 acres of Queensland freehold,
besides leaseholds uncountable. “ Jimmy ” started
on the road to riches in one of the big early
droughts, getting a big flock of half-dead sheep in
lieu of wages from a dried-out squatter and saving
it by driving out into the Never-Never to water
and grass he knew of. He still wears shirt and
moleskins in the bush and carries his knife in his
belt as of yore. He counts the coppers himself,
but has a nephew who doesn't, which is another
instance of compensation and about as good a one
as any Providence can trot out.
Gladstone’s disregard for Mrs. Grundy, the
goodness of heart which has often prompted him,
when walking home from the House at a late hour,
to enter into conversation with the unfortunates
of the streets and on many occasions to take some
of the more battered and ill-clad home to his own
official residence, where Mrs. Gladstone furnished
them with clean, warm clothing and hot drinks,
has from time to time led to his being attacked
publicly and privately by such men as Colonel
Tottenham and other Tory members. These
charges have been revived by Colonel Malleson, a
“jingo,” who, as London correspondent of an
Indian Tory journal, was mulct by Herbert
Gladstone in a thousand pounds damages for
having informed his readers that “my son Her-
bert” had proved himself “a true chip of the
old block ” by carrying on an intrigue with the
wife of one of his father’s baronets.
THE SYDNEY DRIVERS’ PROTECTIVE ASSOCIATION
—AND—
INSURANCE, FINANCIAL, and GENERAL ESTATE AGENCY.
*lOO,OOO ONE HUNDRED THOUSAND POUNDS TO LEND £lOO,OOO
In sums not less than Five Pounds (£5) on all classes of Approved Security at o' s to 7 per cent.
Property released from Building Societies, &e.
Offices: Exchange Chambers, George and Campbell Streets, Haymarket, Sydney, H.S.W.
This Company is for the Benefit of all Horse Drivers and Proprietors of Horses and Vehicles.
Proprietors Please Note;— This Company is responsible for your horses and vehicles, providing you 1 ’
drivers are subscribers (same as if the said drivers’ own property).
VETERINARY SURGEON :
John Pottie, Esq.,|M.R.C.V;S.,E., 232 Castlereagh-st.,Syd.
COACHBUILDERS :
Messrs. Robertson and Co., Factory, 417 Pitt-st., Sydney.
C. Whately, Esq., Factory, Newtown.
DOCTORS:
A, C. Brownless, Esq., M.D., 285 Elizabeth-st., Sydney.
J. G. Bourchier, Esq., M.D., J.P., Redfern-st., Redfem.
DISPENSING CHEMIST :
H. A. Rose, Esq., M.P.S., 631 George-st., Sydney.
SOLICITOR :
W. J. Hill, Esq., 26 Elizabeth-st., Sydney.
BANKERS;
The Australian Joint Stock Bank, Haymarket,
MANAGING DIRECTOR:
Francis Australia Piper, A., C.E,, Q.S.
Office Hours : 9 a.m. till 12.30., and 2 p.m. till 5 p.m.
Subscribers Claims on the Company.
1. —Have the services of the Company’s Solicitor free
for their defence at the Police Courts when summoned for
breaches of the by-laws of the M.T.O. and S.M.C., and his
special advice in connection with any such cases.
2. In addition to the above the Company will lend sub-
scribers money to pay their fines into Court, which they
can arrange to pay off by instalments.
3. —Are entitled to send their vehicles to the Company’s
coachbuilders and have any damage, caused by accident,
made good, free to any amount not exceeding Five Pounds
Five Shillings (£5 5s.) for each and every accident.
4. —Have the attendance of the Company’s Veterinary
Surgeon on their horses, and medicines free. If a horse
dies from natural causes the carcase will be removed ; if
killed by accident Five Pounds Five Shillings (£5 5s.) will
be paid for same.
5. —A Subscriber is allowed two horses and one vehicle.
Special arrangements made where Subscribers are using
more than two horses.
6. —Have the attendance of the Company’s Doctor and
Medicines free. In case of death from natural causes the
deceased shall be buried by the Company ; if killed by
accident, Ten Pounds Ten Shillings (£10 10s.) in addition
to funeral expenses.
7. —Subscriber being a married man can, by paying Is.
6d. extra per month, have the doctor and medicine free
for his wife and children up to 14 years of age, free also.
8. —All medicines ordered by Company’s Doctors obtain ed
free from Company’s Chemist.
Subscriptions. —Entrance Fee, 3s. Subscriptions, 2s. fid. per month, or £1 Is. per annum, payable in
advance. If married and require the doctor for wife and children, Is. fid. per month extra.
P.S.—No subscriber will be entitled to benefit (except doctor and medicine, and Veterinary surgeon and medicine)
until he has been a subscriber one month, then he will be entitled to full benefit as above explained. Subscribers
may make arrangements with the Company to release their horses and vehicles from Loan Offices at a much reduced
rate of interest or obtain loans from the Company on same at easy terms.
MEDICALi REFORM.
&
/?,C. /'• £**• •*■*• S' s* •
ufaSA*
7
t£ 7
yJ~hr 't /t^
7
r pHERE exists a crying; need for
the medical profession to stay
the quackery which is so rampant
in these colonies. Men having 1 no
medical qualifications nor aptitude
for the treatment of diseases, still
advertise with impunity as doctors;
and guarantee to do what they know
they are incapable of dcing, and
thus deceive the public who are
caught by their specious and lying-
advertisements, as is amply testified
by reading the exposures in the
1 1AILV Telegraph from August 3
to U, 1887.
A chief cause of this state of t hings
is that medical men from mistaken
notions of professional decorum,
and because they consider ft infra
di<j, refrain from entering the field
against these quacks, bo long as this prudery exists so long will this canker consume our youth. At the risk, how-
ever, of professional opprobrium I have decided to throw aside this false delicacy, and avow my sympathy with, and
readiness to treat such affections, in the hope of saving the young of both sexes from the ruin.of health and mind
which consulting these quacks ensures, not to mention the ruin of their pockets.
A patient writes to me : “ I am in such a miserable state I would pay you what I could afford for a lifetime, if
you could possibly be the means of letting me know what health is, and perhaps saving me from suicide which seems
to be my only release if this appeal fails. Kindly and humanely do not allow it to be in vain, and you will never regret
it. I have been victimised by a person calling himself a ‘ doctor.’ My father (of cpurse J did not let him know the
nature of my ailment) paid this person £7 75., all for nothing, for which ho said he would guarantee a cure in three
months.” Now, if qualified medical men would advertise in such a way as to bring their names before these sufferers,
and convince them of their sympathy, cases like the above which unfortunately are of daily occurrence, would not
occur: groundless fears would not be excited, and where disease exists it would be safely and permanently cured. I
am a legally and highly qualified practitioner, and have for over 20 years devoted especial study to chronic, nervous
and special diseases of men and women, and I am therefore justified in guaranteeing a cure in all cases amenable to
treatment.
Sufferers from impaired vitality, or nervousness, should read my book on “Nervous Debility,” free by post for
Is., where they will find much useful information and directions for self-cure. Those wishing a farther insight should
read my work on the “ Male Generative Function in Health and Disease,” free by post for 2s. fid.
Consultation by Letter ... £l.
, %
Dr. ALEX. PATERSON,
A M., M.D., F.R.C.S., Ed., M.R.C.S., Eng.,
157 BLIZA.BETH: STREET, SYDKTEY.
Amusements.
T heatre royal
Under the Management of Messrs. Williamson,
Garner and MuagroVo.
Lessee, Mr. S. Lazar. Treasurer, Mr. Geo. L. Goodman.
LAST TWO NIGHTS OP
LITTLE LOUT) FA LYTLE ROY
By Mrs. Frances Hodgson Burnett.
Admission—f>s., 3s. and Is.
JJEB MAJESTY’S THEATRE.
Lessee and Manager ... Mr. Geo, Rignold.
Boors open at 7 ; commencing 7.40. Carriages at 10.47..
ENORMOUS SUCCESS ! ENORMOUS SUCCESS!
of the New and Original Drama,
M y J ack. My Jack.
Lox Office at Theatre from 10 to 5. Prices as usual.
J. P. Macdonald, Acting-Manager.
QRITERION THEATRE
Sole Proprietor .... Mr. John Solomon.
Under the Management of Messrs. Brough and Boueicault.
General Manager ... Mr. Mavne.
Doors Open, 7. Overture, 8. Carriages, 10.25.
IMMENSE SUCCESS ! IMMENSE SUCCESS ! ‘
of the Unrivalled Comedy,
CASTE! CASTE!!
(By arrangement with Mr. Geo. Rignold.)
The Comedy produced under the direction of
Mr. DION BOUCICAULT, Jim.
Admission ... £2 2s. to Is.
Box Plan at Nicholson’s. Carriages at 10.25 p.m.
Joe Davis, Business Manager.
[A CARD.]
gTANDARD THEATRE.
Lessee and Manager ... Mr. Tom Sawkiss,
Farewell Engagement of
° E ° - C. M 1 L Iff,
In a Choice Repertoire of Classic Plays.
' POPULAR PRICES.
Qpera house.
Acting Manager ... Mr. F, Gunther.
IMMENSE SUCCESS ! IMMENSE SUCCESS I
OF
Mi*. CHARLES PALMER
IN
“HANS THE^BOATMAN,"
Charles Palmer—“ Hans the Boatman.”
PRICES—3s., 2s. and Is. Box Plan at Nicholson's,
JJONDI AQUARIUM.
__ „ The Most Popular
ICMC and P LEA SURE GROUNDS op AUSTRAL! \
The Famous Switchback Railway, conveying
Passengers from Cliff to Cliff daily.
Splendid Asphalt Open-Air Skating-Rink Free to Visitors.
.... () P en Daily from 10 a.m to 10 p.m
Admission, Is.; Children, (id. Trams to Gate-Fare, 4d
T H E C Y C L ° HA MA!
THE MOST MARVELLOUS
ART DEVELOPMENT OP THE AGE !
Here one of the world's greatest military struggles
thn‘i‘ ' Xl ? : det p‘ bef T tho spectator, surronnrie
«>apes f aU es of 0,10 of thc ‘ Purest American lam
100 Square -Miles within One Building !
Open every Day—lo to 10. pgr* BAND* DAILY
THE SINGLE TAX V
PROTEt TIO3
CAMPATC:
The henry ceorge
EXECUTIVE
HEREBY challenge
Any accredited REPRESENTATIVE chosen bv tl
NATIONAL CLUB,
As Representing the Protectionist Party, to
MEET HENRY GEORG!
—IN A—
Public Debate on the Above Subjaot
Some time during his visit to this colony.
Admission either to be free or a charge to be made and
the proceeds to be devoted to such public charities as
may be arranged.
W- E. JOHNSON, Secretary,
Office of the Single Tax League,
169 Phillip-street, Sydney.
PATENT SCALE* INSTRUCTOR
FOR THE—
PUPILS can obtain the above at once, and the best
way to illustrate its usefulness to them i» to sup-
pose a man to live to be a hundred years old and never
to have seen a Piano, he would, with five minutes'
instruction, be able to play the most difficult Major and
Minor Scales on the instrument.
THE SYDNEY CATERING COMPANY, LTD,.
(Late Ounsler’s Cafe)
tree t, Sydney,
WISH their former Patrons and the Public Generally to know that their Saloons have been Entirely Reorganised, and 'shall be glad, if they will give
their new cusine a trial, JAMES 0- MAEQUAND, Manager-


Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
Photography. —Charlemont and Co. (vice-regal
photographers), in the Royal Arcade, beg to an-
nounce that they have now reduced the price of
their Cabinet Photographs to One Guinea per doz.
any style —bust, vignette or three-quarter figure.
Messrs. Charlemont feel assured that this reduc-
tion in price will meet the many who refrained
from sitting in their studio, solely on account of
the price hitherto being higher than they might
care to pay. Grosvenor Galleries, Royal Arcade.
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
From the Age :—
T AW.—Solicitor desires employment of any kind;
-*-* abstainer ; salary, 80s. a week. Code, Age office.
This speaks for itself.
Building Sites, City of Perth, W.A. Plans
Intercolonial Investment Co., Limited, 96 Bathurst-
street, Sydney.
Use Batho’s Baking Powder,
A literary treat for Australians abroad
and for absent friends of Australian readers of The
Bulletin : “ A Golden Shanty—Australian stories
and sketches in prose and verse by Bulletin
writers. ” The brightest, best and most original
shilling book ever published in this country. Send
it to your English friends whom Sladen’s Anthology
has disgusted. One shilling; postage in Australia
5d. extra.
Ambidextrous men are the exception. The
nails of the right hand can be trimmed as easily
as the left, by the use of McDonald’s Nail Trimmer.
All chemists. Price one shilling.
Everybody should use Pemell’s latest best Snow-white
Patent Roller Flour. It is the greatest success of the age.
New Cure for Deafness.— Scientific Electro-
Medication. No Ear-drums. Self-applied and
painless. Advice, Pamphlet Free. Professor
Harvey, 145 Collins Street, Melbourne. Magni-
ficent testimonials.
Stockton (N.S. W.) likes its beer. At the
Stockton municipal election the local option vote
was negatived by 216 to 87 in favour of allowing
new licenses and by 223 to 82 in favour of granting
removals.
Medical
rv
J
-»o-
-i
*
o
era^
✓
IU&
*v
“God Bless the Duke of Argyle”
The most distressing forms of itching and inflam-
matory diseases of the skin and scalp are instantly
relieved and permanently cured by the Cuticura
Remedies, when all others fail.
Cuticura, the Great Skin Cure, and Cuticura
Soap, an exquisite Skin Bcautifler, prepared from
it, externally, and Cuticura Resolvent, the new
Blood Purifier, internally, cure every form of tor-
turing, disfiguring, itching, scaly and pimply dis-
eases of the skin, scalp and blood, with loss of
hair, from infancy to old age.
I have been cured of a most unbearable itching
skin disease by the Cuticura Remedies. They
have enabled me to escape years of suffering.
You may use my name as a reference, and any one
who wants to know about my case may write me,
inclosing stamp. W. B. BROOKS,
47 Grove Street, Providence, B. I.
I am a canvasser, and one year ago I was badly
afflicted with salt rheum, so that I was unable to
walk. I tried the Cuticura Remedies, and they
entirely cured me. F. E. PERRY, Rome, N. Y.
Bold everywhere. Price, Cuticura, 50c ; Soap,
25c.; Resolvent. $1. Prepared by the Potter
Drug and Chemical Co., Boston, Mass,
4®- Send for “ How to Cure Skin Diseases,” 64
pages, 50 illustrations, and 100 testimonials.
Pit
IPLES, blackheads, red, rough, chapped and
I oily skin prevented by Cuticura Soap.
Two years ago I was attacked with eczema. I
cannot tell you what I suffered. I was the most for-
lorn spectacle you ever saw Charles Kennedy, of
this place, showed me your pamphlet on skin dis-
eases, and among them I found the description
suitable to my case. I bought the Cuticura
Remedies. I took seven bottles, with the Cuti-
Cura and Soap, and the result is a permanent
cure. I thought I would wait and see if it would
come back, but it has proved all you said it would
do, so I will say God bless you and yours.
THOS. L. GRAY, Leavertown, Ohio.
I, John J. Case, D. D. S., having practised den-
tistry in this country for thirty-five years, and being
well known to thousands hereabouts, with a view
to help any who are afflicted as I have been for the
past twelve years, testify that the Cuticura Rem-
edies cured me of Psoriasis, or Scaly Skin, in
eight days, after the doctors with whom I had con-
sulted gave me no help or encouragement.
Newton, N. J. JOHN J. CASE, D. D. 8.
The Cuticura Remedies have permanently
cured me of dandruff and facial eruptions when all
other remedies had failed. For nine months my
head has been entirely free from the slightest signs
of dandruff, and my skin is as clear as when I was
a boy. LOU THOMPSON, New Britain, Conn.
HANDS
Soft, white, and free from chaps and
redness, by using Cuticura Soap.
Address: K. TOWNS & CO,, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Great Medical Reform!
Consult (FREE) HERR R ASSMUSSEN, the Celebrated Danish Herbalist,
Expert Specialist in all Private Complaints, Barrenness and Nervous Diseases.
*w
w.
BE
iRK
ffyiirj p\V^
4
%
$
%
\
%
%
\i
\
&
w
4
%
r -
%
m/i
đ
L
0
s
T
V
I
r
ft
L
MicSß
# tHl
;s#
,0'
;U$
§
d
mm
WOKS'
V
Vitality
A Guaranteed Cure
for
Nervous Deputy and
Lost* Vitality.
995. M. per Course.
Smaller Gox Os. iju.
Only Herbalist in. A.nstralia,
That has received “Gold Medal” for Great Cures Performed, and is Honourably Mentioned in the “Centennial History of New South Wales ”
for Great Herbal Discoveries; and who can prove that he has CURED OYER 20,000 PATIENTS.
Sole Proprietor and Discoverer of the Celebrated
DENMARK VITALITY FILLS, Registered,
Which have been the means of Curing so many Thousands of Sufferers from Nervous Debility, Lost Vitality, Errors, Weakness, Despondency,
Impure Blood. 225. 6d. per Course ; Smaller Box, ss. 6d.
G-exiuizie Testimonials.
To HERR RASSMUSSEN.
Dear Sir, —This is to certify that you cured me of a very serious blood
disease, after many doctors had failed.—JOHN REYNOLDS, Chappel-
street, Leichhardt, Sydney.
To HERR RASSMUSSEN, the celebrated Danish Herbalist.
Dear Benefactor, — '
I have much pleasure to inform the public that you cured my wife of
an internal complaint of a very serious nature, after all the doctors had
given her up.—ARCHIBALD MACFARLANE, Eden Cottage,
Barney-street, Armidale.
To HERR RASSMUSSEN, Specialist in Nervous Diseases.
Dear Sir,—l hereby thank you for the great cure you performed on
me for a very complicated nervous affection, and I shall always recom-
mend you to sufferers from Nervous Debility.—PHlLLlP STEAD,
54 Parramatta-road, Annandale, Sydney.
To HERR RASSMUSSEN, Danish Herbalist.
Dear Sir and Benefactor, —It gives me great plea ure to testify
to your wonderful skill in the treatment of Disease. You cured me of a
terrible complaint after the doctors gave me up, and although it is four
years since, lam as well as ever. I shall recommend you to al l . —Yours,
gratefully, A. RAMSDEN, Great Western Coffee Palace, Castlereagh-
street, Sydney.
To HERR RASSMUSSEN, Specialist in Nervous Diseases.
Dear Sir, —I hereby certify that I have been vnder your skilful
treatnent for a very obstinate ca-e of nervous debility, and that you
cured me with one course of your Vitality Pills.—D. M‘NEILL,
Hornsby Junction, N.S.W.
Opinions of the Press.
It is a well-known fact that HERR RASSMUSSEN, the Cele-
brated Danish Herbalist, has performed many great cures during the
past few years, as his numerous testimonials will prove.
—Sydney Bulletin.
HERR RASSMUSSEN.—We have been shown some excellent
Testimonials of the great cures performed by Herr Rassmussen, the
celebrated Danish Herbalist.— Australian Stab.
HERR RASSMUSSEN has now been established in the colonies
for 10 years.— Sunday Times, April 28, 1888.
HERR RASSMUSSEN has become a celebrity in the curing of all
diseases of the nervous system. His name has become a wonder through-
out Ue Southern Hemisphere. He was presented with a Gold Medal for
some of his miraculous cures.— Balmain Leader, May 12, 1888.
HERR RASSMUSSEN.—The remarkable cures which he has
effected are pretty generally known.— Balmain Observer, April, 28, 1888.
We are perpetually receiving letters from HERR RASSMUSSEN’S
cured patients requesting us to make known to the public the wonderful
medical skill this remarkable man possesses, and he has just been pre-
sented with a gol 1 medal from several of his cured patients.
—Sydney Weekly News, May 26, 1887.
HERR RASSMUSSEN’S HERBAL REMEDIES
( Registered)
DENMARK VITALITY PlLLS.—Guaranteed to cure nervous debility, Lost
Vitality, Errors of Youth and Despondency. Price, 225. 6d. per full course • small
box, ss. (id.
DENMARK FEMALE RESTORER PlLLS.—Guaranteed to cure all complaints
peculiar to Females, Irregularities, and eradicates complaints which cause barren-
ness. Price, 225. 6d. per course ; small box, ss. 6d.
LOCK CURE PlLLS.—Guaranteed to Cure all diseases of the blood, discharges
sores, and strictures. Price, 225. 6d. per course, small box, ss. 6d.
CONSULTATION AND ADVICE FREE.
All the above remedies are made of PURE HERBS, and are forwarded unobserved. A valuable treatise on Nervous Debility, Private Complaints, and Barrenness sent
free, on receipt of 4d stamped addressed envelope. Consultation personally or by post, free. Patients are examined with the aid of the Microscope.
Address ; - Herr RASSMUSSEN the Danish Herbalist,
Corner GS-ordon-street & Parlt-roacL, Paddlnstosi, Sydney.
TRAMS—Take Paddington Tram to Elizabeth-street, Paddington.
s
DENMARK
m
m
JLm
\
%
\
%
%
\i
w
I.
%
i*f l/l
R
E
s
T
0
R
E
s
L
0
s
T
L
I
T
¥
MIC#
ď
# c,a
đ
■rt#
d
ď
'{o
đ
d
niTv
A Guaranteed Cure
for
NwrvOPß TVivt ttv iln( J
Lost Vitality,
225. 6d. per Course.
Smaller Box ss. 6d.
The Protectionists of Mudgee have pur-
chased the Freetrade Western Post and will
make it their organ.
It is pretty plain, from inspired statements
recently made in the Press since the Federal Con-
ference ended, that Premier Parkes and Co. are
ready to assent to Federation on the basis of,a
more or less protracted continuance of the pro-
vincial customs tariffs.
A Melbourne correspondent thus writes :—
Dear Bulletin, —Have you had any hint of the women’s
club that has just been formed in Melbourne ? It is to be
designated “The Austral Salon.” Women professionally
engaged in literature, art, music, and the drama, are to
be members ; amateurs in these arts are to he admitted as
associates, and there are to be patrons of the club.
Women visiting Melbourne from other countries will be
elected honorary members, that is so say, women distin-
guished in any of the arts named. The club’s object is to
be mutual improvement and the bringing out of the
latent talent of amateurs. You would he astonished at
the number of clever women whose abilities are so little
encouraged that they do the Block to escape ennui and
hysterics. Men do not, as a rule, encourage erudition in
women. A man hates to let a woman discover his
ignorance, while, if he be well-informed, he de-
lights to keep h s knowledge to himself. Thus the
unmarried woman hides her talents from a possible hus-
band, and the married woman is systematically snubbed
because of her literary aspirations. You will say “ Oh,
no,” but I say “ Oh, yes”—from experience. Is it not
high time, therefore, that a woman’s club was formed in
Melbourne ? Men are to be admitted as associates—on
social evenings only—and will then have the opportunity
of hearing members of the Austral Salon play their own
among other musical compositions, read their own papers,
exhibit their own sketches. Many of the members of
the Salon are well-versed in the politics of the day, and
have their own views on Federation. A few bold spirits
amongst them even declare for separation. But this is for
your ear alone. The club will have more of a social than
a political character. The question of woman-suffrage,
usually associated with the very idea of women’s clubs, is
not to be obtruded just yet. In America and in England
there are dozens of women’s clubs, and if women can
render mutual assistance in those countries, surely they
should be able to do so in Australia. Women will have to
assist as well as men in the formation of a distinctly Aus-
tralian nationality. And thus they begin.—Yours,
Moorabinda.
They show a curious relic up at Jungle
Downs, and we wonlt. insult the reader’s geogra-
phical knowledge by specifying where that station
1S 'n r^lti relic is a door-scraper— an article .su-
called because no one on earth ever thought of
scraping a door with one; but let that pass. This
scraper is pridefully pointed out to visitors as con-
sisting Of a human lower-jaw, and thereby hangs a
tale. Old Poley was once overseer at Jungle
Downs, iand his fad was physic. His
travelling menagerie not only included several
fully-stocked medicine-chests, but three or four
complete cases of surgical instruments, anes-
thetic inhalers, dentists’materials, and all sorts of
medical books,_ besides a valuable collection of
newspaper receipts or all the disease- either pos-
sessed or coveted by humanity. Poley had
a black boy, of whom he was extra fond.
Indeed, the scoffers declared that Toby,
the black boy, was a gin in male attire,
but the decision of that point is of no consequence
to this narrative. Toby fell ill, and all the re-
sources of Poley’s medicine-chests fai ed to effect
a cure. So Poley held a consultation with his stock-
man, in strict accordance with medical etiquette,
and at the end of a learned rummaging o* authori-
ties—both of standard medical books (full of hard
Latin and Greek names) and of the commoner and
humbler newspaper clippings—the pair of amateur
physicians solemnly came to the conclusion that
Toby must be “examined.” The stockman wished
to witness the examination, and, after taking the
oath of secrecy in 47 different colonial forms, he
was permitted to be present, so that everything
might be en regie should a certificate of death
become necessary. Stethoscopes, laryngoscopes,
spectroscopes, speculums and so on, were brought
into play, and the examining duo came to the con-
clusion that Toby’s particular and specific disease
was angina pectoris, for which, in an American
clipping, Poley had preserved the mention of a
certain cure—to wit, nitro-glycerene. The Ameri-
can humorist who had given the world the benefit
of this medical saviour had merely said that “it
had never been known to fail,” but he forgot to
mention the dose. “An ounce won’t hurt him,”
said Poley, while the stockman was for rushing
Toby with “ arf a pound.” However, they com-
promised on “two plugs,” which they jammed into
Toby’s mouth, when whor-r-r-r-r, bang ! Toby
joined the angels without further farewell, depart-
ing promiscuously in atoms for various spheres, his
only legacy being his jaw, which was found driven
into a verandah-joist, teeth uppermost, in which
position it has done serviceable duty ever since.
Poley escaped with a lump as big as an emu’s egg
on his forehead, while the stockman levanted with
fright, but unhurt. Poley has since sent in his
cLim to the Medical Board to be registered as a
legally qualified medical practitioner. He says
that since he has made a funeral of his first
patient he ■ feels that he is on a par with most
Australian medical men, and asks, therefore, to
be allowed to continue in the manufacture of
corpses.


Business Announcements.
-THE- ’ /
Fresh Food & [ce Co.,
LIMITED,
HARBOUR STREET,
SYDNEY.
Are evidently determined to go ahead They are
now supplying Customers who take a Quart of
Milk and Over per Day at
THREEPENCE PER QUART!
This appears very wonderful, but it is
quite trice.
Weelcly Accounts.
A. BOWMAN’S
LONDON MADE
Porpoise Hide Boots
Are Reduced from 30s. to 21s.
249 PITT ST., SYDNEY, Near Tattersall's.
Porpoise Hide Wears Twice as Long
as any other Leather.
They _ are noted all oyer London,
Birmingham and Liverpool.
London
AND
Fresh Goods Every Fortnight.
Trade Supplied Wholesale at a Great Advantage.
PLQyqH-SHfIRES.
ABIMUi. PLOM'LHM
IN EQUITY.
Hornsby v. Hudson.
*£
ktotiob
TO THE
farming Coamuni y of Hew South Wa os.
HUDSON BROS., Ltd.,
Are still making the Shares which formed
the subject of this great lawsuit. They
are now branded
DEE
and their quality is better than ever.
m
HUc
Farmers desirous of encouraging Colonial
Industry can obtain these Shares from our
Local Agent.
NOTE—Trial samples free of cost.
HOT and COLD X
Seawater Baths,
V/arrmamboou, Victoria.
H YGIE X1 C, + ciT RATIVE.
Curbs
SCIATICA, RHEUMATISM,
Nervous & Skin Diseases.
Testimonials from all parts of the
Colonies.
Water direct from Southern Ocean
pumped by (fas motor, retaining all
natural qualities ; tree from objec-
tions ot Bay water. Large swim-
ming basins for ladies and gentle-
men. Maililc plunge baths, hand-
somely appointed. Bracing air,
charming scenery, fishing, shooting,
beautiful drives place Warrnamboof
.in the front rank as a sanatorium. .
Federation
Chaff.
Prime OATEN (CHAFE, \
Purchaser to find haft*. J
4/-'per cwt. Cash
Prime OATEN CHAFF
Ban Free.
■}
4/6 per cwt. Cash.
Fresh ererv day. Our own cutting. Quality guaranteed.
KYE STRAW, 4/- RYE STRAW. 4/-
The Cheapest and Best Produce in Sydney.
CITY PRODUCE CO.,
Hay Stueet, Haymarkct, SYDNEY.
Falls B ridge Family Hotel,
Falls Bridge, Melbourne.
This magnificent Hotel, containing 50 Double
and Single Rooms, is splendidly furnished and
perfectly ventilated.
Hot and Cold Plunge and Shower Baths.
Electric Bells. Tklbpiwnb 1217. Billiards, ice.
Terms Strictly Moderate.
J. H. DURRANT Manager
Late of the South Australian Club Hotel, Adelaide.
Business Announcements.
Wclm
u
NMPNC.
fPONM EH C H ANI
'
V
-ICYES
Hi
I.t=~l
iia a a a
sshtiss;
■; '
ROBERTS & CO.
—W HOLESALE—
Ironmongers, Importers, Iron and Machinery Merchants, •
HAY AND ENGINE STREETS SYDNEY,
Head Office: 85 Graceclmrcli Street, London, E.O.
IMPORTERS OF
Bailway & Bridge Contractors'
Plumbers’
Squatters’
Requirements
IN
Great Variety.
IMPORTERS OF
Engineers' and Blacksmiths'
Couchbuilders'
Mining
AGENTS FOR:
Korting’s Gas Engines— The best and cheapest yet made. Automatic self-governing, thus saving cost of gas.
Braddock’s Water and Gas Meters and Gas Lamps. Reading Iron Works Universal (Split) Pulley Wheels.
Howe’s Platform and Counter Weighing Machines and Weighbridges.
m
Trade masJ?
Guinness’ Extra Stout,
FIRST QUALITY.
Bass Pale A le,
FIRST QUALITY.
Sole Purveyors to the
Colonial & Indian Exhibition,
London,
(By Special Appointment).
Wholesale Agents Balchin, Johnston & Co., Sydney.
M. B. FOSTER & SONS, LONDON.
ZBTJGrULiE 77 ibir, auntid aiilie: aistid
STOUT.
PUBLIC NOTICE.
It having come to our knowledge that ALE and STOUT of very inferior quality, in bottles with
skillfulh/ forged labels have lately been palmed off on the public
We desire to warn our friends of I h° fact, and t > etat- that all corks as well as capsules of the
bottles shipped by Messrs. M. B. FOSTER & SONS to this colony bear their name and address
Anv intoimation respecting B< ttled Beer purport ng to be “Foster’s Bugle Brand offered
for sale without these corks and capsules «ill be esteemed by the undersigned, who have instruc-
tions to bring to ju tice the perpetrat rs of the frauds.
A Liberal Reward will be given for information leading to conviction of the offenders.
)(
BALCHIKT, JOHNSTON & CO., Sydney,
Agents for Messrs. M. B. Foster & Sons.
/v alt for Kin peer’s Bllber feld Lager eer
(Specially Brewed for Australia). Absolutely 1 ree from Sediment.
-THE-
Wolseley Sheep-Shearing- Machine
P
ASTORALISTS are notified that, to avoid disappointment,
no time should be lost in Booking Orders for next Season.
Agents: J. H. GEDDES & C 0.,
19 PHILLIP STREET, SYDNEY.
ď
EVERY
DESCRIPTION
HAIR WORK DON£
%
%
%
\
Jo
0
<s>
<2"
PRIVATE
ROOMS
FOR LADIES
72*24
ROYAL ARCADE
MELBOURNE
Cities’ life Assurance Company,
LIMITED.
Capital ,£200,000.
Head Office:
21 Castlereagh St, Sydney ■
If'itA Branches and Agencies throughout the Colonies.
KTew Business:
1887 There were issued 19,557 Policies.
1888 „ „ „ 34,084 „
1889 „ ~ ~ 57,3*43 „
These figures show the wonderful progress of the
Company and the high esteem placed upon its
liberal dealings by the public.
CLAIMS PAID
Immediately on Proof of Death
JAMES P. GARVAN, \
WM. ALEX. SMITH, f
Managing Director.
Secretary.
Medical.
ARE YOU NERVOUS?
IF SO,
DON’T MISS THIS .
What everyone says is bound to be true, and youn*.
and old, rich and poor, physicians who recommend, anc
patients who try
The Krupp Galvanic Chain Belt,
All agree in praising that most scientific of Electrc
Therapeutical Appliances. For Rheumatism it is un-
rivalled. Lumbago at once succumbs to its power. Th«
Nervous are strengthened and the Debilitated restored tc
perfect health and vigour. In short, the appliance is air
unfailing cure for all Nervous, Sexual, or Chronic Diseases,
and is GUARANTEED to ABSOLUTELY CURE, com
pletely and lastingly, the following complaints: —
Dyspepsia, Neuralgia, Pains in the Back and Chest,
Lumbago, Catarrh, Rheumatism, Dumb Ague,
Nervous Debility, Paralysis, Kidney Complaint,
Spinal Disease, Female Weakness, Diseases of tht
Liver, Impotence, Seminal Weakness, Diabetes,
hciatica, Atrophy, Gout, indigestion, Asthma, Piles,
Epilepsy Spermatorrhoea, Specks before the Eyes,
Excessive Heart Palpitation, Defective Memory.
An Biiifiiiliiig Cure For Vnrlcocele.
It is a PORTABLE BODY BATTERY, and contain*
special appliances for both sexes ; therefore, why waste
your money and health by procuring and taking USELESS
DRUGS? Electricity, when properly applied, is acknow-
ledged by all leading and unprejudiced physicians to be
the only safe and radical cure for Nervous and Sexual
Diseases, and the thousands of testimonials received by
the Krupp Belt Co. from leading personages throughout
Australasia prove the unquest enable curative properties
of Electricity as applied by theappliance above referred to.
Our confidence in this appliance is so complete, that
we send the Belt out on trial, and guarantee it
to give perfect satisfaction. For full particulars as tc
terms, etc., send for our large illustrated treatise, free,
in which these Belts arc fully illus rated, the action oi
electricity on the nervous system explained, and a lot oi
useful information on nervous and sexual diseases given.
This treatise also contains facsimile of testimonials received
from some of our clients who have tried our Belts. The
originals of these testimonials produced on application.
The prices of the Krupp Galvanic Chafri Belt and
Suspensory are from £l.
Sole Inventor Gael Krupp.
Business Manager , . A. W. Courtxby.
Address all communications to the
Krupp Galvanic Chain Belt Co.,
Box 647, G.P.0., Sydney, N.S.W.
Remember—The K.G. Chain B .-It cue es-milnmt medicine,
is easy to wear, is sent on approval, an 1 the first cost is
the only cost.
INDISPENSABLE p 0 R £ A2I2 J
AND ALL PERSONS
SNOSOOW
Cocoa Butter Soap is a real skin-b'>autifler, art! a halm to
young ami old alike.
MOCSON & CO., PERFUMERS & TOILET SOAP MANUFACTURERS,
FRANKFORT-ON-TI IF-.MAINE.
London: 32&53 iiainseLl-st., e.c. Paris: '2D rtf, raivierilb
Full guarantee for perfect purity is off-red, by the
sole Manufacturers, Moi'sQN & Co.
*3l r L ARENCE-ST., SYDNEY,
SOLE ..GEM’S FOR AUSTRALASIA.
A
a cs
rm
E
to
iasa
ES/T
THIS valuable Lotion is guiwanterd to cure SWELLING
and SANDY PLIGHT, INFLAMED EYES and LIDS,
DIMNESS OF SIGHT. &c. It will be found very bene-
ficial and cooling to those who have weak eyes, or whose
work compels them to strain their eyes. Highly
recommended by the leading Oculists.
Manufactured only by the Proprietor,
R.OBET
Dispensing and Manufacturing Chemist^
531 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Wholesale by the Proprietor and all Wholesale Houses.
Established ISSB. By Post 3s. 6d.
Manufacturer of Dr. SOUTHAN.’S GOUT and
RHEUMATIC PILLS.
THE PRESCRIPTION
m>. c. ij.
WHAT IS IT?
THOMAS MCREERY:
MEDICAL HERBALIST,
83 Oxford Street, 4 doors above Riley Street,
Private Diseases of, Both Sexes a Speciality.
Consultations Gratis. Charges very Moderate.
A Trial Solicited.
A SPEEDY CURE GUARANTEED.
The AUSTRALIAN MERCANTILE LOAN and
GAURANTEE COMPANY, Limited.
Head Office—
Sydney: Corner of Market & York Streets.
Melbourne Branch: 283 Collins-street East.
Brisbane Branch: Corner Edward and Elizabeth Streets.
Newcastle Branch: 37 Hunter Street.
The Company grant immediate advances upon Deed 9 of
Land, Bills of Lading, Merchandise, Storage ana Bona
Certificates, and allclassesof mercantile and oilier approved
securities, for fixed terms or repayable by instalments.
A. MILLER, Acting-Manager


Medical.
NERVOUS MEN.
!'
EUREKA
\S
ELECTRIC BELTiV
lA / 'v/v\ < . v-i . vs. . ... v v
: \
A NEVER FAILING CUBE FOR ALL.
DISEASES OF THE NERVOUS SYSTEM.
Complete •with Suspensory Appliances from £l. 0. 0 and
upwards. Tins famous Electric Magnetic Belt will cure
iOSEVOUS DEBILITY, Seminal Debility, Impotence,
and all weakness caused by indiscretion. Pains in the
Back, Lumbago, Giddiness, Rheumatism, Kidney and
Bladder complaints, and in fact any disease of the Nervous
Bystem. The currents are steady and constantly felt by
the wearer. It has great improvements over all other
belts, we are willing to furnish those belts on 30 days
trial, and accept payment after they have proved them-
selves what we represent them to be. Those belts are
made for the specific purpose of producing a continuous,
mild, soothing current of electricity through all the weak-
ened parts, restoring them to health and vigorous strength,
even the worst case permanently cured in three months.
It is more convenient to wear than any other Belt.
A Book illustrated, containing full information and testi-
monials from prominent people throughout Australia,
and informing persons how they may obtain these belts
without paying for them until they have proved them com-
petent to cure any disease of the Nervous System, will be
forwarded to any address on receipt of a 2d stamp for
postage. 0 „ _
Address >— VOLTAIC BELT COMPANY
Box 916, G. P. 0., Bvdnev.
Dr. James D. Llewellyn,
(registered)
SPECIALIST in
GESITO-ÜBINAET DISEASES,
May be CONSULTED at
—3 25 LONSDALE STREET—
(between Swanston & Elizabeth StsJ,
MELBOURN E.
I3T Consulting Hours—lo to 2; 7to 9. Sunday
Mornings, 10 to 11.
All Personal Consultations are free ; by letter tl s
Pee is £l, which is inclusive of medicines.
1801.
đ
Triccpheroris
THE
HAIR
An elegant dress
ing. r exquisitely per
fumed?' removes, all
impurities from the
acalprpreventsJmJdnees and gray hair, and
causes the hair to grow-Thick, 1 Soft and
Beautiful. Infallible for curing eruptions
of the skin-, diseases of the glands, muscles
end integupients. and relieving cuts, burns,
&c!
Barry’s Pearl Cream
Imparts to the darkest skin a clear, natural
white, tinged with the faintest rose Ulush
It speedily removes'forinkles. freckles, sun
burn and tan. and mantles the faded cheek
wi.llf youthful .bloom and beauty^
Barry’s Hair, Dye.
Put up in two farms, .with and s withoul
a preparation Without the’preparation,
gradually colors the hair any shade desired,
from a light brown*to a black With the
preparation, instantly colors ll\e hair a na-
tural jet black the moment it is applied.
CflwMo/t-None of these preparations geo-
the trade mark of Barclay
oUihjuiififfirYjOtk, affixed to ea$;h bottle.
lar* A BLESSING IN EVERY FAMILY.
HOLLOWAY’S PILLS AND OINTMENT.
There is not a country in the civilised world where
the healing' virtues of thes a grand medicines have not been
recognised by thousands of sufferers. In all the ordinary
ailments of humanity their beneficent action is at once
recognised. Fullest directions are supplied for their use
in every disease. IP YOU SUFFER, TRY THEM, Manu-
factured only at 76 Nbw Oxfobu-st., London. £W" Pur-
chasers should look to the Label on the Boxes and Pots.
If the address is not 523 Oxford-street, London, they are
spurious.
UJONG SHAN TEA HOUSE
NOW OPEN.
Tart & Co.’s
a
u
o
N
G
T
A
R
T
EXTENSIVE NEW PREMISES
(Nearly opposite Theatre Royal).
FIRST-CLASS GRILLS,
As well as all kinds of Refreshments, may
be obtained from 7.30 a.m. to 11.30 p.m.
CUP OF DELICIOUS TEA.
ICED DRINKS OF ALL KINDS, &c.
j 6 rooms are splendidly furnished and
ntted up. In addition to the large and
well - appointed Refreshment Rooms,
gentlemen will find on the Second Floor
and Comfortable Smoking
and Conversation Rooms, furnished with
Chess, Draughts, &c., &c.
TO THE LADIES.
On the First Floor will be found Nice
iTivate Room for Ladies, convenient for
Writing, Reading, &c., also Retiring
Rooms and Lavatory, with both hot and
cold water laid on. Inspection Invited.
Finest Teas imported—-Packets |lb. and
upwards supplied. Orders promptly at-
tended to.
g
o
N
G
T
A
R
T
Sc
C
o
M
P
A
N
Y
137 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
Medical.
A WONDERFUL MEDICINE.
Beecham’s Pills
CH4
V
0
O'
to
PATENT
w
PILLS
a
&
re
Are universally admitted
to be worth a Guinea
a Box for bilious
and nervous disorders,
such as wind and pain in
the stomach, sick head-
ache, giddiness, fulness
and swelling after meals,
dizziness, and drowsiness,
cold chills, flushings of
heat, loss of appetite,
shortness of breath, cos-
tiveness, scurvy, blotches
on the skin, disturbed
sleep, frightful dreams,
and all nervous and trem-
bling sensations, &c. The
first dose will give relief
in twenty minutes. Every
Sufferer is earnestly invited to try one box of these
Pills, and they will be acknowledged to be
Worth a Guinea a Box.
For females of all ages these Pills are invaluable,
as a few doses of them carry off all humors, and
bring about all that is required. No female should
be without them. There is no medicine to be found
equal to BEECHAM’S PILLS for removing any
obstruction or irregularity of the system. If taken ac-
cording to the directions given with each box they will
soon restore females of all ages to sound and robust
health. This has been proved by thousands who have
tried them, and found the benefits which are ensured by
their use.
For a weak stomach, impaired digestion and all disorders
of the liver, they act like “ MAGIC,” and a few doses will
be found to work wonders upon the most important
organs in the human machine. They strengthen the
whole muscular system, restore the long-lost complexion,
bring back the keen edge of appetite, and arouse into ac-
tion with the ROSEBUD of health the whole physical
energy of the human frame. These are “FACTS” testified
continually by members of all classes of society ; and
one of the best guarantees to the nervous and debilitated
is, Beecham’s Pills have the largest sale of any patent
medicine in the world.
Beecham’s Magic Cough Pills.
As a remedy for Coughs in general, Asthma, Bronchial
Affections, Hoarseness, Shortness of Breath, Tightness
and Oppression of the Chest, Wheezing, &c., these Pills
stand unrivalled. They are the best ever offered to the
public and will speedily remove that sense of oppression
and difficulty of breathing which nightly deprive the
patient of rest. Let any person give Bseciiam’s Couon
Piias a trial and the most violent Cough will in a
short time be removed.
Prepared only and sold wholesale and retail by the pro-
prietor, Thomas Beeoham, Chemist, St. Helens, Lancashire,
England, in bexes at Is. IJd. and 2s. 9d. each.—Sold by
all Druggists and Patent Medicine Dealers everywhere.
N.B.—Full directions are given with each box.
CONSULT
*
OORE & KIOGG
H-
THE EMINENT
SPECIALISTS,
On all Diseases dfthe Genitourinary (
Nervous Diseases, and Private Complaints,
1, CORBETTS BUILDINGS, corner of George
and ElUabeth Streets, Brisbane,
CONSULTATIONS FREE, PERSONALLY OR BY LETTER.
Box 88 G.P.O.) Boole sent on receipt of 2d. stamp.
Prof. R. T. SELBY
Is considered to be the most Successful Practi-
tioner in the Australian colonies. All sufferers
should read the Doctor’s most unique work on
Nervous, Private and other Diseases. The
Advice on Marriage is worth its weight in gold.
Send your full address, and we will send (post
free) One Copy. Write to Prof. R. T. SELBY.
Cleveland Street, Surry Hill, SYDNEY.
F. C. NICHOLES & Co.,
WHOLESALE
Confectioners & Pastrycooks*
City Buildings;
736 George Street, 736
HAYMAEKET.
Steam Works :
617, 619, 621, 539, 541 HARRIS STREET.
Wedding Cakes, &c., Made to Order.
EPPS’S
GRATEFUL—COMFORTING
COCOA.
Dr. westcotps amenorrhea
PILLS for Ladies, when taken for a few
days before, quickly correct all irregularities
from whatever cause arising ; 2s. 9d. and 4s. 6d.,
by post 3s. and ss. W. H. SOUL and CO., 190
P-itt-street, Sydney, Agents.
WALTER HO IP lE,
General Merchant & Commission Agent,
199 SUSSEX STREET, SYDNEY.
CONSIGNMENTS of all Produce, Live Stock, etc.
) received and realised in the best markets. Accoun
Sales and Proceeds remitted the day after sale. Order
executed for all Goods from Sydney at Lowest Wholesa!
Prices
Speciality —Purc-bred and Pedigree Stock of all de
icriptions Bought or Sold on Commission. All communi
cations referring to Pure-bred Poultry and Eggs for Setting
to be addressed as usual to WALTER HOPE, Bonnyrigg
Prize Poultry Farm, Liverpool, N.S.W.
SPECIAL NOTICE.—The Sydney Bulletin.
Tasmanian Edition Publishers, FITZ
GERALD BROS. Subscription (payable strictlj
in advance), Six Shillings and Sixpence per qunr
ter, or One Pound per annum.
The Bulletin will be on Sale every Friday at
the Office, George Street, Launceston, or from the
Runners in the street.
Business Announcements,
The bank oe new Zealand.
Sidney Branches:
64 BITT STREET, and 538 GEORGE STREET.
Paid-up Capital £1,125,000
The Bank has Agents in all the principal cities
throughout the United States of America and
Canada, and can offer special facilities for dealing
in Bullion, Bills of Exchange, Commercial and
Travellers’ Letters of Credit.
Drafts issued and Bills collected on most favour-
able terms, at rates which can be ascertained on
application.
N. F. GIBLIN, Manager.
Read 2
3FS.esEi.ca. I
3ES.C3Ci.c3. !
THE BULLETIN’S”
History of Botany Bay,
By Arthur Gayll.
Profusely Illustrated by The Bulletin’s well-
known Artists,
L. HOPKINS and PHIL MAY,
Price
- €3:ol«3 ©Sa.illiM.g’
Per post, Is. 3d.
Wholesale Agents :
Victoria’ A. Benjamin, 321 Little Collins-st., Melbourne
Melbourne :• Gordon & Gotch.
Brisbane: J. H. Thompson, Bookseller, George-street.
Adelaide: Neville & Co.
Tasmanian: Fitzgerald Bros., George-street, Launceston.
“Wiiat is Home without a Picture?”
Xj. BERNASCONI,
(Late R. Smith)
Elite Carver, Gilder, and Picture Frame Maker,
159 Clarence Street Only, SYDNEY
(near Central Coffee Palaoe).
Plush Work a Speciality. Mounts Cut to any Design.
B.
RXTTENBERG & O O.
IMPORTERS,
81 Clarence St., Wynyard Square.
Furniture, Mirrors, Oleographs, and Mouldings.
J. SITTEHLIN,
FROM PARIS,
Ladies' Hairdresser. Wigmaker, & Perfumer,
25 SYDNEY ARCADE, SYDNEY.
HISTORICAL AND FANCY HAIRDRESSING A
SPECIALTY.
Manufacturer of All Kinds of Theatrical
and Street Wigs.
Ammoulateil Quinine,
The most efficient Hair Lotion, to prevent prema-
ture baldness.
Sitterlin's Vegetable Hair-dye,
The only Hair-dye in the colonies to restore Light
Hair to its natural colour. All shades.
Success O-uEi.z'Ei.zx'teed.
MANUFACTURING.-HATTERS
GEORGE STREET
SYDNEY?
IMPORTERS OF ALLTHE
NEWEST SHAPES.
And at ALBERT STREET, BRISBANE.
. 1 1 1 .-.
• *
•m
‘At
M
t <
THE BEST
IN THE WORLD
'
• ■ 'it
m
i
rUCH's
axing
PO mR
SsS*
£a9K
- A-.
MANUFACTURED BT A
■g! JAM£S ChANNOM J/ariourS f r
<^ Ly S'tacC'ld 5 SA'rr free foe ro
Easiness Announcements.
EJHE THREE GREAT LIGHTS!
The Needles Patent Gas-making machine ;
The Harvey Patent Safety Kerosene Lamp;
And the New Era Portable Gas Lamp.
The Harvey Lamp has been adopted by the
Railway Commissioners for lighting the Sydney
trams. We were awarded the Highest Order of
Merit and Special Mention by experts at the
late Melbourne Exhibition for our lighting
mediums. Over 6000 Harvey Lamps are in use
in this colony, and for all lighting purposes are
giving universal satisfaction. These Lamps can
be seen on one of the North Shore ferry-boats,
and are suitable for all classes of vessels. The
Inventor offers £2OO to anyone producing as good
a Kerosene Burner.
Patentees for Australasia;
H. T. Smith Sc Co., m Kent St. South, Sydney,
14 Arcade, Adelaide, S.A. ; Argent Street, Broken Hill;
Parkside Iron Works, Melbourne,
—THE—
SYDNEY SOAP & CANDLE CO.,
Limited,
MANUFACTURERS OF
Stearine and Paraffin Candles,
HOT & COLD WATER SOAP
Of every Description
Glycerine, Lubricating, Machine, Cloth and
Neatsfoot Oils.
The only Genuine and Original
Magic Cleanser Cold Water Soap.
To be had at all Grocers and Storekeepers. ' -
(Jpfold’s Tree Pest Exterminator,
Its Effects are Marvellous!
SI. HILDER,
BOOT UPPER MANUFACTURER
IMPORTER OP
ENGLISH AND FOREIGN LEATHER,
Elastic Web, Grindery, Ac.,
Wholesale and Retail Leather Merchant
639 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
—THE—
Art Furnishing Warehouse.
BEARD, WATSON & CO.,
361 George Street, S¥DNEY,
Direct attention to their Magnificent Stock of
Carpets, floorcloths, Linoleums,
And other Floor Coverings, in the
NEWEST DESIGNS A ARTISTIC C OLOURINGS.
Art Decorations, Upholstery Work and
Window Draping a Speciality
All Orders executed hy a Staff op Experienced
Workmen, and Special Attention given to the carry-
ing out of Customers’ tvishes with punctuality and
promptitude.
Hotels.
WESSTEPUNT HOTEL,
Warrnambool, Victoria.
THIS old-established and well-known Family
and Commercial Hotel combines all the
requirements of a First-Class Hotel with home
comforts.
It is in full view of the sea and within a short
distance of the picturesque scenery of the Hopkin’s
River, which affords the finest Rod and Ely Fishing
in the colony.
Arrangements made for the Hire of Rowing and
Fishing Boats and Fishing Tackle. Bait, etc.,
supplied. KS’ Good Shooting in the immediate
neighbourhood.
It is also within Two Minutes’ walk of the Hot
and Cold Sea Water Baths, which are unsur-
passed in the colonies.
ty Livery and Letting Stables.
Booking Office for Cobb & Co.’s Coaches. Thos.
Cook & Sons’ Hotel Coupons taken.
GEORGE W, CLARE - Proprietor.
THE ’GEORGE HOTEL
(opposite Railway Station, near Baths),
St. Hilda, Ifictoria.
First-class Family & Commercial Hotel.
' SAT For particulars, apply to
3FL
PROPRIETOR.
OYAL HOTEL,
Esplanade,
ST. KILDA, VICTORIA,
Facing Beach, close to Pier and Baths Ten
minutes from Station.
H. MOONEY --- - Proprietor.
LIVERY LETTING STABLES ATTACHED.
Telephone 682.
First-class Accommodation for Visitors
JjONG'S IMPERIAL HOTEL
TOOWOOMBA, QUEENSLAND.
Acknowledged the Best Hotel on the Darling
1 )owns. First-el ass Accommodation.
Private Suites First Glass Sample Rooms.
Conveyance Meets Every Train.
JOHN LONG - - Late of New Zealand,


SHEVILL & CO,
Corner Queen Street and Flinders Lane,
MELBOURNE.
mercantile auctioneers,
House, Land, and Estate Agents,
-l2>!
i-
m
f - -3%
I, jy™
m-ii*
4
JJ
Advances made against shipments of Merchandise
and Colonial Produce.
Daily Sales held at their Commodious
New Booms.
OUTDOOR
Furniture & Land Sales Conducted.
Branch
Offices
r 32 Chapel St., Prahran.
1 2 Albert St., Windsor. J
Branch
Offices
P. Hfc, ARKLXNs
IMPORTER OP ' * *
WIUES, x SIP I IR, IT S 7 x IB IE IE IP S 7 x ETC.,
George and Gipps Streets, Sydney.
SPECIALITIES;
John Jameson’s Dublin Whisky (5 to 10 years old); W. Jameson’s, Dunvillb’s Roe’s and Wise’s (old Cork) Whiskies.
. Hennessy’s, Mautbll’s and Sazerac’s Brandies (5, 10, 15 and 21 years old).
The Choicest and Oldest SCOTCH WHISKIES (in wood). Imported and Bottled by P.E.L.
I'-Sf" The Best Port and Sherry Wines and Champagnes. All Brands of Colonial Wines. The leading brands
of Bottled Ale and Stout, arriving by monthly steamers.
. Prince of Wales Hotel, 778 & 780 George Street.
sSlolesale anil jingle “Bottle Departments, anil €(Cqitgc-st., syilncy.
SEND FOB A PRICE LIST.
FIRST-CLASS LADIES’ REFRESHMENT ROOM k LAVATORY,
GIPPS STREET (Opposite A. Hordern & Sons.)
)x{
Produce Stores, Gipps St., and Darlinghiirst Road.
HEAD OFFICE: GIPPS STREET (Next Prince of Wales Hotel).
d
f ■
SS3
nXTES'W
FURNITURE
WAREHOUSES,
York- Street, Wynyard Square, Sydney,
Now supply the General Public as well as the Trade.
10,000 Bedsteads,
From IDs. 6d. to £35.
I T -1
W v ■,'.
i.?C.f A I
* 3!jb!
i/,7liSlS_Cj
sH'BSnWJ
■
=E=i V S’?S?
t^»«sit«
:o I
4u c
■“^lo
Nt e
V. |j
ills*
..f>CT
Mo^^°m. s
irusf
!i?USS£^^W «T
I ■:■' IjMr
i ms
UfWcEflfE
*.: .iuk
\ [3 CD ISS
•TtD
C ~ T ,
s' 'toJ’ScSm
»»
BAILEE & CO.,
General Auctioneers and Estate Agents,
335 Collins Street, Melbourne, ami 14 Chapel
Street, South Yarra.
Free Prescriptions
Are to be found in the “ Light and Life,’
for the Speedy Cure of Nervous Debility and
Kindred Diseases, &c. A copy of this book will
be sent Free, sealed, for Six Penny Stamps.
S. WARD Si CO., SYDNEY PHARMACY,
76 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
ď
FRY’S WAITED COCOA.
llnntlngton Mill.
Knowle-V
rump*.
PARKE & LACY GO.,
MINING & HYDRAULIC ENGINEERS
AND
GENERAL MACHINERY MERCHANTS,
&C., &C.,
187 & 189 Clarence Street,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
And SAN FRANCISCO, CALIFORNIA.
Rock Breakers.
WrstliiKliouse Engines.
ES, LIMITED,
Hay St., Haymarket, Sydney,
ENGINES,
2 to 50 H.p.
BOILERS,
1 to 35 H.p.
STEAM PUMPS
For all purposes.
CEHTRIPUGAL PUMPS,
2" to 40" discharge.
HAND PUMPS.
Saw Benches.
Latlioa.
WM MASHES.
&c., &a
> imr !h>rmtffJ ’ -Conti twit (ntoLuptc
WINDING ENGINES.
Hauling Engines.
Battery Engines.
Saw-mill Engines.
riOUR-EL ENGINES.
ENGINES
FOR
Electric Lighting.
Vertical Boilers.
Multitubular Boilers,
< Olt MSia ItOIIKRS.
&c., &o.
\v a invito ol those renuirintr Machinery of any kind for any purpose, large or small, to write ror particulars and prices. From the extent of our stock we are generally able to give immediate delivery,
e mviiH ai muoc t e Visitors whether buyers or not, are always welcome to inspect the magnificent display in our new and extensive Showrooms,
X 33 & 135 HA.Y STREET, H A. YM ARKE X, SYDNEY.
12 0,
131,
