

HOTEL METftOPOLE, SYDNEY.
J-SCsaLS acaa - gt* s ~r>*
BALDWII DRY AIR REFRIGERATOR.
Beware of the many so-called Dry Air Refrigerators advertised by unscrupulous Manufacturers and Dealers, intending
to deceive the public and trade upon our reputation. This is the original and celebrated Dry Air Refrigerator, made
famous by its successful competition at the leading Exhibitions in the United States for the past Six Years, known as
the Baldwin Dry Air Refrigerator.
WHITE MOUNTAIN FREEZERS, ICE MILK CANS, MIXERS,
21*1 3E3 I&'-H ZE&J" SB HI T HEII 3E2 a jSlm JLt&. SE3 9 c• 9 o •
ILv£cZ-iean Eros. ZESig'g', ZELtd..,
512 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
HpHE COLONIAL MUTUAL LIFE ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED.
BRANCHES THROUGHOUT THE COLONIES AND THE UNITED KINGDOM.
9
Policies issued under the C^x*c3.xxx^.x*y 7 BSodified ’Routine and ICWS! oi*"fcix ei. 1*37" ZBZ3x"vi,c3Leia.c3l Systems.
Tne MUTUAL STORE, Limited,
Opposite the FLINDERS STREET TERMINUS, MELBOURNE.
The advantages of the Mutual Store are now offered to the general public, and Visitors to Melbourne will have all their requirements supplied from under One Roof.
The following are the Departments of the Store :-Grooery and Dressed Provisions. Poultry and Game. Grain and Fuel. Wine, Beer and Spirits. Stationery and Fancy Goods Iron
mongery; General Furnishing and Electroplate Boots and Shoes. Woo liens and Tailoring. Gentlemen’s Mercery. Furniture and Carpets. China and Glass Drapenv General TToti^
and Gloves. Millinery and Dressmaking. Mantles. Underclothing. Silks and Dresses. Manchester. 7 ' -Hosiery
m- Refreshment Rooms, where Light Luncheon and Afternoon lea are provided tar Well-appo nted Broughams, Victorias, Waggonettes* etc., from Comnany’s own Liverv Stables
on Hire bv Hour. Dav. Week nr J J ttuiua
Special attention is paid to Countey and Station Obdees. Cash
on Hire by Hour. Day, Week or Month.
lustombes removing their own Goods are entitled to a Discount of 5 per Cent.
Open to the Public for Cash Purchases.
'ANmnn mi jbfrowwmiwi maravN-itn wjj tTmavim nwrc i nn w n
lAtiminM AIHOTH
• •
CET^C^xA
k
V v V
,1
V
W f
<s,
v.
\\i
p/
'A .
'/A.:
f
4
M>
The LONDON & SYDNEY TEA COMPANY
409 KENT STREET (Two Doors from Market Street), SYDNEY, ’
—IMPORT—
X ZEsT X) Z -A. XX
HIG H-C Xj _a_ s Q
tbas
<Sc CHIKTA
Packed in 301 b. and 401 b. Packages, and delivered at I*. 6d„ 1«. 9d. amd 2a hat. ik
(Carriage Free) to any Railway Station or Port in New ScmA Wal««.
A Single Package at Wholesale Price. Correspondence invited and promptly attended
The Bulletin
Yol. 10—No. 519.]
[Saturday, January 25, 1890.


fife
i- life *1?
RliS
lIS
m
m
fill!
m
033V001
we
*
a
o
33
o
3^
☆
V
SIR ROGER
50
£
a
V
O'
DIXSONS
Dr. RIDGE’S
FOOD
FOE INFANTS AND INVALIDS
Has an enormous sale in England
and is now being introduced into the
Colonies.
Every Storekeeper should get a supply
as every Wise mother will certainly
use it.
DB. RIDGE’S ROYAL FOOD MILLS,
LONDON, ENGLAND.
noxsos
. owaud.''”' l <
aßanisnantjx
3
[siiavK i
aJggfeg
mm
H*W*
BROWN’S
SATIN
POLISH
-FOB-
LADIES’ AND CHILDREN’S
BOOTS AND SHOES.
Awarded highest honors at
Phila., 1876 Melbourne, 1880
Berlin, 1877 Frankfort, 1881
Paris, IS7B Amsterd’m 1833
New Orleans, 1834-83, and wherever
exhibited.
Paris medal on every bottle.
Beware of Imitations.
This Blacking is in liquid form and is applied to shoes
or other articles of leather by means of a sponge* attached
to the cork by a wire, so that the blacking can be used by
anyone without soiling the fingers. No poiisliing brush
is reijuirtd. It dries immediately after l>eing applied, and
will not soil the most delicate clothing.
Sold largely in Australia through Commission Merchants
and Dealers.
B. r. E3OT7H & CO.,
Boston, U.S.A., M’f'gs.
B.
R I T T E N B E R G & CO.
I'M POUTERS,
81 t lareucc St , Wynyar«l quart.
Furniture, Mirrors, Oleographs, and Mouldings.
fITKIHSOa’S
ENGLISH PERFUMERY
surpasses all others for its natural
fragrance.
Atkinson's Eevownfd
English Lavender Water
and other well-known Perfumes are
unequalled for their delightful and
lasting odour.
yvTiciisrsoKr’S
ORIENTAL TOOTH PASTE,
Unrivalled for cleansing, beautifying
and preserving iho Teeth and Gums.
Of all Dealers, and of the Manufacturers—
J, & E. ATKINSON,
24. OLD BOND STREET, LONDON.
Trade Mark - “White K.'so’oii“fto.den
Lyre,” with Address in full.
T. LAWLESS, Junk.,
37 MARKET STREET,
SYDNEY,
]P ru.it Merchant.
WILLIAMS’
AUSTRALIAN LEAST POWDER
IS THE ONLY PERFECT SUBSTITUTE FOB YEAST, “d
: y
Bread, Tea Cakes, Pastry, &c.,
ARE
Light, Wholesome and Digestible
WHEN MADE WITH
Williams’ Australian Yeast Powder.
FOR THE TOWN, THE BUSH, AND THE SEA.
Beware of Worthless Imitations. Sold in Tins at Sd. the Half-Pound.
CLARENDON HOTEL, MANLY,
The Brighton of New South Wales.
AT the CLAHENDON HOTEL, Banquets, Suppers, Private Dinners, Evening Parties, etc., are
served on the Shortest Notice in the Large Dining Hall. Besides having a most recherche
Dinner you can enjoy from the balconies the magnificent view of the sea and surrounding country ;
here also you can have good company, good wines—in fact, everything that can possibly make one
comfortable can be found at this really first-class hotel. Fishing and Picnic Parties provided. Table
de Hole at One o’clock daily and Sundays. No expense is spared by Mrs. KilmxnsTer to make her
•visitors comfortable and her Hotel the best in the colony.
tttt ■TVTma'S'T'jij.K.. Clarendon Hotel,
Opposite OCEAN BEACH, MANLY.
JOHN BTrCKHA-M:,
449 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
Tents Tarpaulins, Wool° Dray and Waggon Covers
/creased or oiled), Canvas Water Bottles, Coolers, Whim
Buckets, Horse Rugs, Nose Bags, Oiled Loin Cloths. Send
to or call at
449 ELIZABETH STREET, MELBOURNE
(Oldest Established House in the Trade).
SURVEYORS TENTS A SPECIALITY.
68 Hunter Street, and 8 Bligh Street,
SYDNEY.
IB 1 . SHEOSDEE
LIVERY, BAIT, LET-OUT AND COMMIS-
SION STABLES.
Horses and Vehicles of every description for
Sale or Hire; also, good reliable Ladies or Gentle-
men’s Hacks.
WILLIAM ™ CARGILL,
Photographic Stock Importer,
2 6 MARKET STREET, SYDNEY
Cl**yiI' l E’I§ir ©l*J©S*IiW
D
*\
it
e
N
(STY^gr
Offices
MilDURA Victoria.
'Melbourne Ch&Sby Irrigation Offices, Swanstcn Street.
Ren MARK — South Australia,
Adela l DE Cavendish Chambers, Grenfell Street.
Eng la n D ______ J. £. Mathew Vincent. (Chid Commissioner)
—” Cornwall Buildings, 35 Queen Victoria Sf.
w ■ n ni n n n c fi.
ffo*d«} & C?
P rYnCE or WALES’ HOTEL,
s-fc- KHda, Victoria.
WitMn Five Minutes from STATION, and One Minute from ESPLANADE and BATHS.
MRS. KONG MENG ... Proprietress.
ŗ
SAUCE,
Purchasers should see that the Label on every bottle of Ihe original
WORCESTERSHIRE SAUCE
bears the Signature, thus :
Ask for Lea & Perrins’ Sauce, and see Name on Wrapper, Label, Bottle a tv l Stopper.
Wholesale and for Export hv the Proprietors, Worcester; Crosse & Blackwell, London, sc., se.
and by Grocers and Oilmen throughout the World.
—Everyone should Read—
The BUIjIjETIKr’S
“ HISTORY of BOTANY BAY,
T=Ey ARTHUR. . G-AYI *T ■.
Profusely Illustrated by “ The Bulletin s" well-known Artists, L. Hopkins and Phil May
Price - ONE SHILLING; per Post, Is. 3d.
Agents —Victorian:
May be had from Agents, or direct from “ The Bulletin Office.
A Beniamin 321 Little Collins Street East, Melbourne ; Tasmanian: h itzgerald Brothers, George Street,
Launceston; Queensland: J. H. Thompson, George Street, Brisbane.


The Bulletin
Vol. 10—No. 519.
SATURDAY, JANUARY 25, 1890.
3Price, 6d.
r
ŕ
ŗ
ř
r
PRODIGY PARKES!
“Parlies is a perfect Prodigy. Even the weight of his debts and trashy poetry, and the intermittent raffling of his ' art-treasures ’ and autographs can’t drag him under
water” (or words to th[?]edect) —DILKE.


The Bulletin
The Rational Australian Newspaper.
“ Australia for the Australians.”
Proprietors : BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO.,
Limited,
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 21 Pitt-street, Sydney, New South Walks.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(payable in advance, only).
Per Annum ... ... ••• ••• 0 0
Half yearly 0 12 6
Quarterly ••• 06 6
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
•.o he addressed to William Macleod, Managing Director.
Literary Communications to he addressed to J. F.
Archibald.
The Editor will carefully read and acknowledge in the
“ Correspondence ” column all contributions submitted
‘'whether in the form of Political, Social, or other Articles,
Verse, Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in
length, or say SOOO -words, are specially acceptable),
Paragraphs, Letters, or newspaper-Clippings. All
communications will be regarded as strictly confidential.
“ The Bulletin" will return all unavailable MSS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we
desire those sending MSS to distinctly understand that
we are not responsible for the preservation or transmission
of such MSS.
NOTICE.
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty Shillings
sterling—which you may pay by Post Office Order, One
Pound Note, or Stamps of any Australian colony—you
can have The Bulletin posted regularly to you every iceek
for a year.
This offer is not open to residents of Sydney. In that
city The Bulletin is not delivered by mail, but is entirely
in the hands of our carriers, with ivhom we do not wish
to interfere.
SATURDAY, JANUARY 25, 1890.
“Around a Dead Lion.”
“ Some are born to greatness, some achieve
greatness, some have greatness thrust upon
them.” Aye, and in our times some climb
a pyramid of dead men’s skulls to great-
ness, or are dragged into public notice be-
hind the hearse of a dead sculler. In the
dust of disinterment some have sought and
found particles of personal distinction and
have worn a bravery of feathers plucked
from mourning-plumes. Dead heroes are at
the mercy of living nobodies ; the passive
face under a coffin-lid cannot show scorn,
nor the sealed lips speak renouncement.
Following the problematical remains of an
almost forgotten poet and placing them in a
brand-new grave as authentic and honour-
able, blesses him that gives at least equally
with him that receives. What was reason-
ably assumed to be the skeleton of Daniel
Henry Deniehy preserved an ominous silence
while being jolted over the Blue Mountains,
and afterwards carted in front of a couple of
vehicles-full of professed admiration to its new
lodgings; but Daniel O’Connor, coming after
in the drapery of woe as general-public-eulo-
gist-without-prejudice, was at least fulfilled
of the joy of prospective speech to an audience
which could not decently withdraw until he
had talked. For the dead, whoever he might
really be, the credit of having been Deniehy
with all which that might mean of intellec-
tual brilliancy and moral weakness, then “dust
and an endless darkness.” For the living,
an elevation into Master of the Obsequies
and male Niobe of Genius, wordily incon-
consolable and greedy for the aftermath of
print. Fortunately, in Mr. O’Connor’s case,
lie has good-nature to save him from the
charge of ghoulishness. Moreover, he
operates with equal facility upon the living,
as the astounded hero of the Dunbar and
others, finding themselves suddenly pin-
nacled with Alexander the and
Gustavus Adolphus, well know.
* # *
We have a suspicion that the late Henry
Ernest Searle has been the last victim. He
died, unfortunately, and there was a rush of
qualified post-mortem talent immediately,
which probably foresaw huge audiences and
kudos —smelling of mould a little perhaps,
but good enough for them. This, at least, is
the most charitable construction to put upon
the utterances of those whom we would not
willingly charge with actual mental aberra-
tion. There ivas a degree of intemperate
glorification and absolute wildness about
some of the speeches delivered at Sydney
Town Hall meeting, the other night, which is
not quite comprehensible. The meeting was
a largely-attended public one, convened for
the purpose of taking steps to erect a monu-
ment to sculler Searle, and the chief speakers
were the Mayor and Messrs. O’Connor and
Garvan. With what Mayor Burdbkin said
we have no quarrel. He dwelt in reason-
able language upon the credit Searle un-
doubtedly was to that branch of muscular
sport in which he led the world, and upon
the clean, quiet, manly character of the young
fellow. He pointed out the manifest rela-
tion between mental and bodily activity, and
the necessity of preserving the balance be-
tween them so that mind and body might
grow together, and asked that some fitting
tribute to the memory of Australia’s cele-
brated representative oarsman should be
made by the public. No one could object
to anything in that,
# * #
Daniel was a little more subdued in state-
ment than heretofore, and may yet fill
Heaven with the rejoicings that welcome
such as have sinned and repented. He only
wandered into the cold, high dominions of
pure imagination once in saying that intel-
lectual greatness would never fail in securing
due recognition in this land, and he only
I rought in his well-beloved ancients once, to
declare that no one among them was more
honoured than the man who properly
acquitted himself as an athlete. This latter
statement is tolerably true and all the worse
for the ancients. But when ex-Treasurer
Garvan began to orate he seemed to be, like
Nicholas Bottom, “translated.” For him
the unfettered panegyric and the immeasure-
able extolment ; for him muscle before and
after all things, else the world were an aching
void, and life an inexplicable dust-heap.
“ Away on the banks of his native Clarence
—there on that magnificent stream of water,”
said Mr. Garvan, “young Searle aspired
to become the champion oarsman of the
world.” In connection with which it may
be observed, without attempting to throw
cold water on the Clarence, that there are
many more magnificent streams in the world,
that they invariably are of water, and that
thousands of youths have had similar aspira-
tions to those of Searle, “ Thq most
supreme of brute strength,” the speaker
continued, “except guided by intelligence,
was absolutely useless to propel a racing-
boat as fast as would be necessary to win a
race.” That is so, unless the fellow in the
other boat had no intelligence either, or that
the prize was for the slowest, or some such con-
tingency. But all this is by the way and more
or less frivolous on our part. Mr. Garvan
proceeded to attribute the whole programme
of human virtues to the dead champion. He
claimed that success as a sculler called for
the exercise of high qualities—simplicity,
cleanliness, pure living, constant training,
and so forth. He spoke indignantly of the
action of the Parliament of New South
Wales, not in putting aside its proper busi-
ness to pay a tribute to the memory of a
dead German prince, but in not doing the
same thing because of Searle’s demise. No
action of the German prince, he said, “was
ever put forth with the idea of elevating and
ennobling Australia. acted his part
as nobly as any prince who ever sat upon a
throne.” And so, climbing heights of hyper-
bole and wading through deeps of hogwash,
went Mr. Garvan. “Right through the
world from the earliest ages those nations
most forward in civilisation, science, and all
that ennobled the human race were those
who paid the highest honour to their
athletes,” he said, among a great deal more
of the same sort.
* # #
Why does anyone talk like this, if not for
cheap popularity’s sake ? Where is the sense
to be found in it '( Probably no one would
have repudiated such absurd exaggeration
more readily than Seakle, had he been alive
to hear it. He did not, so far as we are aware,
profess any particular nobility of purpose or
loftiness of accomplishment. He simply
sought to get over a given distance while
rowing in a boat in less time than any other
man could, and by means of a fine constitution
and assiduous work succeeded in doing so.
The prize was a great one indeed for the
doing of a perfectly us-eless thing. The im-
portance to mankind at large of the act of
rowing in a boat-race is not as great as that
of, say, cleaning out a gutter, or loading
earth into a tip-dray with a shovel. In doing
such things as these, some distinctly useful
end is served ; the sum of wealth and happi-
ness is at least in some degree increased.
The navvy wielding his pick is a power for
progress; the shearer, wharf-lumper or brick-
maker each represents worthier phases of
muscular activity than the sculler, inasmuch
as they devote their energies to producing
some tangible result which makes life more
agreeable for others. The more of such
work as their’s there is done, the richer the
community becomes. The more professional
scullers there are, the poorer it becomes, be-
cause the larger grows the proportion of its
members who are wasting their strength in
entirely unproductive effort, living on the
production of others and themselves infested
with human parasites in the form of book-
makers. What is the measure of the glory
of sculling ? Not usefulness, for nothing
constructive is attempted. The plebeian
skittles, the aristocratic tennis, the popular
euchre, or the furtive and midnight “nap,”
are equal to it in this regard. Is it mus-
cularity ? What then has the hodman or the
coalheaver done that he too is not credited
with “ennobling and elevating ” Australia ?
Is it skill ? The adept burglar, the billiard-
sharp, the Yankee-grab man, and the many-
tricked “spieler” also have claims to national
recognition on that ground.
* * *
That Searle acted his part “as nobly as
any prince who ever sat upon a throne,’
may be true enough. But it was an in-
finitely small part, magnified into greatness
by the infinite littlenesses looking on. There
have been some princes who have sought to
advance the well-being of those over whom
they ruled, and have left the world some-
thing better than they found it. Gate-money
and wager are the principal motive power at
the bottom of the public enthusiasm which
greets the successful athlete in our day, just
as innate brutalism and worship of force
garlanded him as highest among men in cer-
tain crude civilisations gone by. A large
percentage of the populace—dangerously
large and ever-growing—endeavours to make
money without earning it by the method of
betting, and to this percentage the man who
does the thing about which bets are made is
the man who most awakes admiration, more
especially if he may be relied upon to do it
honestly. So clogged and barnacled over
with villainy and blackguardism and cupidity
has public sport grown, so essentially a
means of “geitingat” others, that honesty in
it becomes a matter for notice and distinc-
tion. In boating this has possibly been less the
case than in horse and foot racing, pugilism,
football and other branches, but it is a
poor commentary on the “nobility” of
sport that the late champion’s honesty should
be so pointedly dwelt upon. And it is an
equally poor commentary upon our present
civilisation that a mere votary of sport, how-
ever great and however blameless, should
receive a homage that would hardly be ac-
corded to the most able statesman or the
most earnest soldier of humanity. It is
absurd to say that moral worth or high talent
are adequately appreciated among us. If
they were, several men of genius whom we
have known might have lived and died
differently—a poet’s mother might not live
in a benevolent asylum, and Lindsay Gordon
might not have had to walk from Brighton
to Melbourne because he had not a shilling
in his pocket. After the deaths of our best
literary men a true appraisement of them
slowly percolates through the public mind,
and honour is done them, mostly by a strenu-
ous few who understand. But in life the
mere athlete is honoured most and loaded
with gifts. If work were set above play,
perhaps Preacher Cocks and such as he
might fill the highest niches, rather than
those who win them by the grace of mis-
applied brawn.
# # *
Searle as a sculler was superb, and as
we regard sport, looking on it not as the
occupation of a people, or a thing in itself
godlike, but as necessary and healthful
recreation, we admire our defunct champion.
But there is nothing to froth at the mouth
about in it all. The very same qualities
which make a champion-sculler—strength,
patience, application, temperance and the
like are indispensable to success in every
other pursuit, however humble and obscure,
and are generally much better employed in
them. If the fungus growths of sport, the
bridge-jumping, falling out of balloons, bull-
fighting, porridge-eating, and other develop-
ments of idiocy which flourish in odd inter-
vals ever became popular and permanent in-
stitutions, they, too, would have their pane-
gyrists. The same kind of people who
now, seeing a crowd around a famous body,
get up on something handy and address
blather by the yard to it, would then
show the innate greatness and supreme
“nobility,” of falling on to, or out of, or
into something or out of something into
space. Or they would insist that all the best
impulses of the human heart could only be
cultivated by him whose part in life was to
go over a cataract in a cask before the eyes
of sharks and pencillers, or to swallow three
soup-plates of red-hot porridge in one minute.
The apotheosising of the popular dead smacks
too much of the deification of the official
living. The claim of supernatural perfection
here alluded to is the old “ pre-eminence in
grief ” business with crape and weepers on it
—no more. We have no ear for epitaphic
belaudment, any more than for lip-loyalty.
The slaverer slavers, whether he leans against
a throne or squats on a sarcophagus.
Jenkins Frays for Jehovah!
Jammed in between a few hilarious comments on
the problematical voyage of one of the Yankee,
San Francisco mailers and a severely dead-dog
notification of the Prize Pictures being “now on
view ” in the black-and-white room at the Art
Gallery, the sad-eyed, diurnal skimmer of his
local daily may peradventure have lit on the
following soulful “ par ”
This is the special week of prayer throughout the world.
The arrangements of the meetings for Sydney were made
by the executive committee of the local branch of the
Evangelical Alliance, and meetings are being held each
evening, except Saturday, in most of the city and subur-
ban churches. The subjects for prayer are classified as
follows : —Monday, personal confession and supplication ;
Tuesday, for nations and their rulers ; Wednesday, for the
rising generation ; Thursday, for Jews, Mahommedans
and heathen ; Friday, thanksgiving.
* # *
The Executive of the local branch of the Evan-
gelical Alliance and their clients will certainly
want to strain their buttons to the utmost in the
way of “ personal confession and supplication.”
They are a lot of miserable sinners, and their
protracted existence in a world supposititiously
presided over by a benevolent and beneficent
Providence is a standing witness to the inscruta-
bility of Divine purposes and a trial to the most
robust faith therein. They will also have their
work cut out for them in wrestling in prayer to
persuade “nations” to definitely put up with
“ their rulers ” in any sphere of activity less
sultry than their ultimate subterranean destina-
tion. The “ rising generation,” too, will want a
frightful expenditure of camel-kneed objurgation
to make it join the local branch of the Evangelical
Alliance, and ditto must be said about our good
old friends the “Mahommedans and Heathens.”
But there is one item of the soul-devastating pro-
gramme of the snuffly and sanctified Jenkins that
causes even the least perverse of philosophic minds
to ponder a little. It is the item that regards
“ the Jews.” It is Jenkins’ prayer for Jehovah.
# * *
Some three thousand years ago, living the
frugal, unvaried life of Oriental pastoralisra, the
Sheik of the' vast deserts and plains of Asia
Minor contemplated the great cloudless arch of
blue and the great uniform expanse of grass and
sand, and slowly arrived at the prodigious con-
ception of the Unity of Nature. According to
Ernest Renan, the first of living historians, and
one of the first historians of all time, the Bedouin
Patriarch was by his peculiar circumstances alone
able to seize passionately on this fact in the shape
of what is called Monotheism, or One-Cfodism,
while all around him the founders or con-
tinuators of mighty civilisations and religions—
Syria, Chaldea, Babylon, Egypt with the
supreme Grecian cult of Art and Beauty, to be
followed by the august splendours of Roman
Reason and Law —were doomed to lose themselves
in the aberrations of their perception of the Com-
plexity of Nature, the infinite phases of the life of
hill and stream, river and cultivated land, lovely
garden and superb city. This Man held in his
heart the religious future of Humanity. The latest
and completest synthesis of modern Thought, ■
that view which sees the whole of our Kosmos,
animate and. inanimate, held by the twin laws
of Newton and Darwin, of Gravitation and
Evolution, is only the scientific verification and
reassertion of the primal article of the anthropo-
morphic faith of our Bedouin Patriarch the
Unity of Nature. It is the greatest idea as
an idea that mankind has produced, and, as we
look back through the dim and haunted vistas of
the past centuries, to that Man and the family
and tribe and nation which proceeded from him,
we look back to the fountain-head of what is
grandest in the sphere of our knowledge. Legend,
the legend of his tribe, has given him a name.
It is Abraham. The name is nothing ; the fact of
the family and tribe which hailed him as their
founder is everything. That family and tribe
were the Beni-Israel. Even he who gave them
their name is but the mythical grandson of the
mythical founder, and we cannot tell whose arti-
culate expression of that wonderful thought of
the one mighty Existence which animates Nature.
But what a miracle of genius and intuition that
expression was ! Jah—Jehovah--the Breath—
the Being— the Existence. Ages of civilisation
and culture cannot better it. Dyaus- Zeus —•
Theos —Deus—Dieu —all speak merely of the blue
expanse of Heaven which is one of the lesser
manifestations of the totality of Nate re. The word
God lays stress on the unverifiable fact of a divine
personal f/or-emance. The Beni-Israel, with their
unique Jah, the eternal universal breath and
being and existence of all things, strikes the
highest note of all. Modern Science and modern
Culture can only endorse it as supreme. The Jews
have been our teachers here, and the teachers of
the whole world. And the executive committee
of the local branch of the Evangelical Alliance have
marked off a third of Wednesday for prayer in their
behalf, and Jenkins will devote half-an-hour to
demolishing Jehovah.
# * *
The precious mental gift of Monotheism, the
seed of the world’s intellectual harvest, committed
to the Beni-Israel was a terrible gift. It was to
make of this tribe “a peculiar nation—a nation
unto the Eternal.” In the early days of its no-
madism, it was to cut it off from all sympathy
with its fellow-Semites. The voluptuous idolatry
of Syria was to drive it back shuddering upon it-
self/ Weary of its endless wandering, in its
search for an abiding habitation, and a city that
that had foundations, it was to settle under the
shade of the most ancient and intellectual civili-
sation of the world. Egypt was to trap and en-
slave it with iron and with “flesh-pots ’’alike, and
it was to be delivered and brought back to the
austere cult of its origins by a man in whom the
spirit of the founders took immortal shape—Moses,
who came to them with the simple grandeur of his
message from the Eternal. “ Thus shalt thou say
unto the children of Israel, I am hath sent me
unto you.” Once more the search for an abiding
habitation was to urge them to all the perils and
horrors of migration and the conquest and exter-
mination of a country and race. They were to be-
come a nation—to struggle and agonise, to fall
from their faith and freedom, to endure kings
and schisms, and finally the most bitter and unjust
and humiliating conquests. Nourishing ever in
their hearts their sublime message they were to ba
tried in the inmost fires of the furnace again
and again. Assyrians and Persians and Medea,
Phoenicians and Greeks and Romans were to
grind them in pieces, and leave of their twelve
tribes but a wretched remnant of two, and yet
they were to refuse to perish and let go their
faith in the Eternal and the nation and city which
he had chosen. They still “ believed in one who
should restore Israel,” and it was that belief,
made ferociously maniacal by year-long deterrence,
blasphemous doubt and terrible despair, which
culminated in the death-agony of the Roman re-
volt and the utter destruction of the city
as a city and of the nation as a nation.
But even in seeming annihilation the Jews
held to their faith in '.Jehovah, the One, the
Eternal, that faith which, with a unique courage
and confidence they still thought was to be the faith
of Humanity. And the executive committee of
the local branch of the Evangelical Alliance have
devoted a third of Wednesday to prayer in their
behalf, and Jenkins will devote half-an-hour to
demolishing Jehovah.
# * *
One phase more. Almost nineteen hundred
years have passed since then. That unique courage
and confidence of theirs have been justified. The
polytheistic Roman Empire was slowly but surely
conquered by the creed of a Jew, who based his
belief on a Jehovah whose jealousy for His
people had lapsed into His love for all
the peoples of the earth. That creed and
that belief were soon corrupted. The intense
monotheism of Jesus was perverted by the
adoring gratitude of mankind into the bastard
absurdity of a unity in trinity and trinity in unity.
No matter. The great Idea was still there, and
the Jews were still there as the perpetual witness
to it. And when the time came that the older
and purer faith was to be re-asserted in the final
shape of Scientific Thought it was from the
Synagogue and not from the Church that the
everlasting enunciation came. Spinoza is the
perfect supplementation of Jesus, as Jesus
was of Moses, as Moses was of the founder
of the Beni-Israel. The Unity of Nature as
Modern Thought accepts it, the summary of the
mighty laws of Gravitation and Evolution took
shape first on the lips of the second divine schis-
matic of the Chosen Race. Disraeli’s ironical
commendation of the European peoples and their
appreciation of the Jews, manifest in the obvious
fact that “half Christendom worshipped a Jew
and the other half a Jewess,” can be extended
to the priceless service rendered to our modern
Science and Culture by Spinoza. Jehovah has con-
quered Trinitarian Christianity as He conquered


,
Thk Bulletin’s “History of Botany Bay,’
Illustrated by Hop. and Phil. May, will ultimately
be the N.3.W. public school text-book. Price,
one shilling ; by post, one and threepence.
polytheistic Paganism. And the executive com-
mittee of the local branch of the Evangelical
Alliance have devoted a third of Wednesday to
prayer on behalf of the compatriots of Jesus,
Mary and Spinoza, and Jenkins will devote half-
in-hour to demolishing J ehovah !
The Botany Bay Marshalsea.
The law of arrest for the fruits of verdicts and
costs in actions for defamation and libel in New
South Wales has received its latest illustration in
the case of Davies versus Goode. On the evening
of 28th ult. Dr. Goode was arrested at Orange by
the Sheriff’s officer fur a debt of £2OO in action for
libel and slander and a claim for costs of £B5O, and
on 2nd inst. he (the Doctor) was placed in the
Debtors’ Prison, Darlinghurst. We propose once
more to examine the powers of arrest in such cases,
the obvious abuses of such powers, and by direct-
ing public attention to the existing law in England
to bring about an assimilation of the law in New
South Wales. We do not propose to deal with
the powers of arrest under the absconding Debtors’
Act, or for Contempt of a Court of Record, or for
default in payment of a sum summarily recover-
able before a Justice of the Peace. We are now
only concerned with an enactment—still to our
shame on the Statute Book of New South Wales—
which suffers a defendant in an action of slander
or libel to be cast into a Debtors’ Prison for
twelve months’ before his release can be ob-
tained by going through a form of surrendering
his estate to the Court of Bankruptcy. In all
other civil actions there exists no such remedy,
and why such extreme powers of punishment in
addition to the ordinary remedies incident to the
decrees of the Courts in all civil cases should be
given to a successful suitor in an action of slander,
we—writing in the year 1890—fail to see. It may
have been very desirable, having regard to the
foundation and early history of Botany Bay, to
put a severe curb on the tongues and pens of the
irresponsible in the years gone by, and this is
undoubtedly the reason why from the 14th seeti n
of the 11 Vic., No. 13, “ those in custody then and
hereafter ” for libel and slander were excepted, but
when the Legislature, in 1874, passed a further
Act to amend the law of imprisonment the neces-
sity for the previous exception did not exist. The
application of the 4th section of the Act 37 Vic-
toria, No. 11 is limited,: for although it repeals
partially the previous Act and limits the detention
of the debtor to 12 months, with power to obtain
his liberty on sequestration of his estate, it failed
to abolish the law of arrest, and was at best a
weak compromise. Under this Act two well-
known gentlemen were imprisoned for 12 months.
A consideration of their cases will afford a strong
argument for the total repeal of the existing law.
* * *
The first in time was the case of Shepherd v.
Dibbs, in which the defendant was imprisoned for
a whole year and then paid the amount of the
verdict for which he had been so imprisoned.
The other case of Fowler v. Kenna arose in
Bathurst, and the jury by their verdict having
awarded the plaintiff one farthing damages, the
presiding judge gave a certificate for costs which
subsequently represented over £OOO. This case
forcibly illustrates an abuse -which has arisen under
this Act of Parliament, it was never intended that
a defendant could be kept in gaol for 12 months
for costs, otherwise the laws abolishing arrest
in all civil cases (except slander and libel) would
not have been passed. Still, in this case, although
the jury estimated at one farthing the compensa-
tion to which the plaintiff was entitled, the law
enabled him to keep the defendant under lock and
key for a period of 12 months, and then his release
was obtained only on the filing of his schedule.
There is at the present time a prisoner confined in
Darlinghurst whose case is a further illustration
of the existing abuse. A Mr. Alexander Hed-
burgh and his wife recovered a verdict against a
Mr. Walter Scott, chemist, for £6O in an action
for assault on Mrs. Hedburgh in one count and
for a slander in the second count. Both matters
arose at the same time and on the same occasion.
There can be no doubt that the assault and im-
prisonment were the foundation of the action ;
still, as the juiy found a general verdict and
did not assess the damages on each count,
the verdict carries the power of imprison-
ing the defendant, and he rests in Darling-
hurst * prison. Many instances could be given
showing how this power of arrest has been
abused, and it is certainly desirable that the
liberty of a subject ought to be determined by
judicial decision rather than by the option of a
vindictive litigant. In all these cases, and in
every case which may arise under the existing law
the plaintiff can put in force all the powers given
to the sheriff to seize and sell the debtor’s pro-
perty, and then when all has been exhausted and
sold for the benefit of the creditor, still the latter
can have the. body of the debtor kept in a common
gaol for 12 months at the expense of the public
if the debtor shall have failed to pay even a
balance of one shilling of the damages or costs
awarded. He can do this in an action in
which the jury estimate his damages at
one farthing if the debtor should be unable
to pay the incident costs. Surely such a
state of the law can be no longer tolerated in New
South Wales. Surely provisions similar to those
contained in the English Act, 32 and 33 Vic.
c. 62 (under which, only in very rare and excep-
tional instances, can the body of a debtor be taken
in execution), will now readily pass into law with
the full approval of all men. it is time for the
Darlinghurst “ Marshalsea ” to go. However,
anything may continue to happen in a country
the authorities and press of which steadily tolerate
such hideous travesties of justice as have, from
time to time, been enacted in the courts.
In Moral and Merrie England
Parke, editor of the North London Press and
sub-editor of the London Star, has followed in the
footsteps of his contemporary, Stead, He pays
the penalty of the effort to grapple with English
, justice ” by the severe fall of a year’s imprison-
ment. Perhaps he counted the cost of his in-
ability to sheet home his charge against Lord
Euston in a judge-ruled court of law before he
made that charge. Perhaps he did not. In any
oase he will now realize to the full the meaning of
English “ Justice ” on its tail with all its fangs in
good working order.
* * *
Y e all know what English “justice ” is. It is
Caste justice ; it is the high-handed administra-
tion of a Law, created in the interests of a
ruthless and dominant caste by members of
that caste. Stead’s attack on the iniqui-
hos of aristocratic London was directed as
full in the face of the judicial profession as of any
() t the other class institutions of the ijcnus gentle-
Bian and aristocrat, and he knew it. If he made
one slip—if lie was unable to prove his allegations
J’P to the hilt in the straw-splitting precincts of a
hostile court —if he gave his judges the chance to
avenge I heir .panic-stricken class and order, then
he was to expect no mercy. All “society” was
shivering with terror and yelling with hatred
against the exposer of its vices yesterday. And
they took him in a weak moment and tripped him
up and worried him. All “society” is yelling
with hatred and shivering with terror at the ex-
posers of its vices to-day. Parke has offered it
the chance of a second victim. To run him to
earth, dig him out and tear him to pieces was the
game. It would “encourage the others.” And
it would —and this was the great thing—raise a dust
and obscure the whole real issue at stake. In a
word, it would “ save society.”
# # *
Stead’s one hope and trust was in the jury.
Parke’s one trust and hope was doubtless the
same. But an English jury is a peculiar thing.
It can be only too easily brow-beaten into return-
ing an adverse verdict by a resolute judge on a
point of law. The sentence then lies with the
judge,“and he can, if he likes, entirely nullify the
whole spirit of the jury’s intention, and even
when, as in a libel case, where the sentence does
not, he can often use the immemorial subserviency
of the poor, frightened, little British shopman-
juror to effect his own purpose. Parke’s
charge against Euston was a terrific one. He
could not prove it. Euston admitted going
to the abominable place, but doggedly kept,
of course, to his original assertion that he
“broke his way out” the moment he dis-
covered its real character. This virtuous young
“ man-about-town,” who confessed to promptly
running off, at the first invitation of an
infamous street-tout, to see “poses plastiques,”
asks us to believe that he was outraged
by the first whisper that suggested the common
accompaniment of the loathsome vice of his Lon-
don luxury. For why should we make any bones
about it ? The English leisured class, pampered
by the self-indulgence of ages, has inevitably lost
all health and all manliness in its persistent pur-
suit of pleasure at any price. The abnormal and
the abominable are the unescapable outcome of
such a pursuit. The utter rottenness of the
English aristocracy is a physiological fact. The
result—a physiological law.
# #
This Cleveland-street scandal is nothing new.
Every few years one of the same type breaks out,
despite the superhuman efforts of “ everybody ” to
suppress them. And it is always the same class of
people that is concerned in them. It is always
“ the pick of the land.” It is always “ illustrious
personages” and “the highest-born” and “the best-
connected.” The Lord Arthur Clinton scandal,
suppressed, because it implicated (of course, quite
innocently) the Prince of Wales (as in the pre-
sent case, the poor, good, guileless fellow had
been duped, you know, and used as a stalking-
horse by miserable and abandoned men) ; the
Dublin Castle scandal, suppressed in the immense
party and political interests of the Irish Executive.
It is always the same old story. A special Cabinet
Council sat to compel the abandonment of the
wholesale prosecution of the Cleveland-street
Men. Hammond, the prime pimp, was warned to
skip, and skipped, and so were a’l the principal
offenders, a noble array of martyrs to middle-class
“ prejudice.” You see, it is not for nothing that
a Tory Government rules England to-day. “What
is the good of friends,” asked Disraeli, the
prince of Tories, “ if they don’t help you when
you get into a scrape?” What, indeed ?
* # #
It is quite impossible at such a distance to say
how the Parke-Euston trial was worked. It
may be, as the cable Ananias, of coin’s 0 , de-
clares, that Parke was fooled by his chief
witness, as the Time i was fooled by Pigctt.
Euston may, after all, be better than his clan,
and his self-confessed moral eccentricities may
have drawn the line at the unspeakable. If
this is really so, then Parke has been foolish,
exceedingly foolish, super-STEADiANLY foolish, in
fact, knowing the nature of English “justice,”
as he must have known it, has deliberately plant-
ing himself before the venomous onslaught of the
“society” judges with no more defence than a
rotten reed. But the probabilities are otherwise.
The probabilities point to the immense d.fficulty
of proving the actual participation of any one
person in the infamies of Cleveland-street, and
without that all but impossible proof the English
libel law holds the accuser to be guilty in extremis.
Nay, even if that proof be complete and irrefrag-
able, it has still to be shown to be that the publi-
cation of the charge w r as in the interests of the
public good, and the lord (and the judge) only
know what the public good is !
# # #
But, in any case, what does it matter a pin with
regard to the real issue at stake ? Granted Euston
may be innocent, then these others are self-
admittedly guilty, and it is a fact that, in the
year 1889 in England a huge gang of aristocratic
debauchees of the vilest and lowest type has once
more been let go scot-free, where the extremest
sentences of penal servitude and solitary confine-
ment would have been awarded to anybody else.
The Cabinet of an English Government deli-
berately gathered itself together to quash the
demands of the Public Prosecutor for a public
trial of these vile wretches because they were
aristocrats. And how long, dear friends, shall these
things be for Moral and Merrie England ?
PLAIN ENGLISH.
A Word for Widows.
An enterprising Frenchman of our acquaintance,
with a turn for speculating on things feminine,
toured Australia lately and has just turned up
with a budget of melancholy intelligence. He
found no lack of young, beautiful, and accom-
plished widows, but discovered that in almost
every case in which the dear departed left means
to his weeping spouse, he set up legal safeguards
against her re-marriage. “Talk of cruelty, talk
of jealousy !” cries the Gallic chevalier, “ it is one
monstrous crime against ze beautiful woman dat
she loses five huntred, one tousand, two tousand
pounds if she not stay constant to one man who is
in de grave! It is brutal!” So we frankly
admit it is. Provisions in a will making celibacy
compulsory should be cancellable by the Courts.
As it is, the law strikes out of wills, clauses
enjoining impossibilities, improprieties, illegali-
ties. All that is wanted is an extension
of that existing power. A husband who be-
queathes his wife two hundred or five thousand a
year with the condition annexed that she is to
remain unmarried, exorcises over her after he is
dead a jurisdiction which the law should annul.
Of course some husbands might say that if
the law took that view of things they would
simply devise their money away from their
widows. And some might really do so, for the
law gives no standing to a wife in respect to her
husband’s disposition of Ins property. 1 t that
this would happen rarely, if at all, is manii. -t, for
the very complexion of mind which seeks to
cloister a widow would be semitrie to public
opinion in respect to a complete diversion of
means from her. Such minds take shelter under
a legal power on which public opinion has been so
far practically silent. The will of every dead
man should be open for revision in a properly-
constituted court, and not only provisions enjoin-
ing illegalities, impossibilities, and improprieties
should be officially expunged, but every provision
whose effect in operation militates against, or is a
restraint upon, healthy, honourable desire.
The M'lVCillion’s Latest.
iNone of those patronising and pious addresses
for which he is famous on this continent, Treasurer
M'Millan has been telling the New Zealanders
an infinite deal of nothing about Federation.
There were only two periods in his oration definite
enough to be more than guessed at. The one con-
tained the trembling prayer that God would forbid
that Australasia should ever be ruled by any other
authority than Mrs. J. Bull, her heirs and suc-
cessors. The second point was that Australia,
and not New Zealand, should “dominate the
Pacific.” It is just about time that Mr. M'Millan
started to ascertain whether Australasia wants to
“dominate ” any foreign territory in the Pacific or
anywhere else. His firm’s dealings with customers
in Samoa, the New Hebrides and Fiji Islands
may be very important to Mr, M'Millan, and
are calculated to kink his mind, but he
may hereafter discover that Australasia will not be
prone to incur the active hostility of any nation
merelyfor the sake of deciding who is to deal in guns
and bananas with Pacific niggers. Apart from the
question of trade, this anxiety to dominate some-
body is nicely balanced by the desire that some-
body should dominate us. Her Gracious has the
job at present, and Mr. M'Millan piously prays
that she may be permitted to continue it at cur-
rent rates. For one who wishes to see Australia
do some swaggering abroad, to suggest that the
dear old mother country should be paid to save
us from the untoward consequences of such suf-
fering is reasonable enongh, but, on the other
hand, Imperial fetters, burden, and rule may
seem an altogether exorbitant price to pay for the
privilege of bossing some island blacks. On the
question of uniform tariff Mr. M'Millan had a
very great deal to say, but he succeeded m ob-
scuring any thoughts he may possibly have on the
issue. His words convey a vague impression that
he doesn’t think much of Federation without
tariff uniformity, but this view is subject to revi-
sion or correction hereafter. The New South
Wales Treasurer was scornfully banged on the
head by Mr. Wise when his opinion on Federa-
tion and tariffs was first promulgated, and Mr.
M'Millan has since been careful not to say any-
thing on the point capable of less than six con-
structions. Consequently, his utterances read
like a Herald leader and sound like the Athanasian
creed.
Prophylactic Philanthropy.
As our population increases, and its proportion of
English provincial town-bred people diminishes
accordingly, so the old practices of Doctor-wor-
ship and Surgeon-idolatry are gradually abating
in their fury. Even in Melbourne, where “medi-
cine ” roosted upon a calm elevation of social
superiority for many years, the fact of a gentle-
man having passed a tolerably easy exam, and
stuck a brass plate on his front door doesn’t strike
the. outside world quite so dumb as it used to do.
Old Victorian identities mostly emigrated from
spots in which the doctor, the parson, and the
lawyer, were the only units in their little social
system who washed their hands oftener than once
a day —thus the early Melbourne physician was
considered to show vast condescension when he
took a thumping fee. With the growth of an
irreverent younger generation, a lot of glory was
rubbed off the ancient fetish until now it is pos-
sible to take up a Melbourne newspaper without
being persuaded that an average M.D. is twenty-
one pounds better, at all distances, than the Arch-
angel Michael. Paragraphs respecting Beaney’s
diamonds and dinner-parties are seldom published
now. A medical man can even return from a trip
“home” without an enlightened people being
further enlightened by “ What Doctor Frill
thinks of Europe.” But although the Faculty—
the Faculty—are not quite so demi-goddish as of
yore, in a social sense, they are still suffering
from the after-effects of undue exaltation, aggra-
vated by a present exorbitance in fees. Their
professional estimation of themselves is unduly
developed, not only as regards mental capacity,
but also in the matter of moral excellence. Hence
an unintentionally droll passage in Dr. Balls-
Headley’s address to the Medical Society of Vic-
toria. This fashionable ladies’ leech claims that
the special thanks of humanity are due to the
Great Pill Brotherhood for devoting any thought
to the prevention of disease, instead -of giving
epidemics a negative support. According to
the gospel of Balls-Headley these amiable
endeavours to preserve the goose that lays
the golden eggs conie under the heading of
“Prophylactic Philanthropy.” Yet it is noth-
ing' much for the blessed Faculty to blow
about. Probably no doctor ever did, or ever
could, attain to the disinterestedness of the under-
taker who kicks a piece of banana-peel off the
pavement. Doctors can only continue to exist by
keeping disease within reasonable limits, while
their easiest and most popular way of getting rich
is to play upon the weaknesses of patients in
robust health. Doctors are generally pillars of
the Church for no other reason than that religion
is good for their business, the true, opulent
Christian being always in .mortal fear that he has
got something the matter with his liver. It is to
the medical profession’s interest to keep other
people well and persuade them that they are in
imminent peril of “popping off.” And while we
give the small per-centage of great physicians no
especial thanks for their attempts at “ prophylac-
tic philanthropy,” we commiserate ourselves upon
the fact that said attempts are mostly hideous
failures, and that the science of medicine makes pre-
cious slow progress.
For evidence of the shameless effrontery with
which our daily press endeavours to discredit the
Dock Labourers’ Fund administration we may
instance a recent telegram in the Melbourne Age
headed “Money wasted in indiscriminate charity.”
Said telegram states that Cardinal Manning
wrote to John Burns as far back as November
last, advising that the amount of money remaining
in hand should be devoted to founding a benefit-
society and applied to the permanent advantage
of the dock labourers. Good. The Bulletin
recently pointed out that, now the fear of actual
starvation was passed, the dockers, instead of
eating up the four or five shillings per heat! still
available, should capitalise the total and strengthen
their position with a view to future emergencies.
When The Bulletin was unknowingly endorsing
Cardinal Manning’s ideas, what was the daily
press about? Screaming out agamst proposals to
divert Australian contributions from the purpose
for which they were originally intended —viz., the
immediate relief of distress, itc., &c. Then Age
telegrams were double headed “Australian Money
Misapplied. Great Dissatisfaction,” and so forth.
And now we have them—directly contradicting
their former complaints, but eager as ever to make
out a case against Burns —trying to stir up public
indignation because money was “wasted” in
doing what they erstwhile protested was exactly
what ought to be done.
♦
An ignorant person, signing himself “J. Ben-
nett ’ has the profound assurance to declare in
the columns of the Sydney Morning Herald,
that the teachings of Agnosticism have received
illustration in the “notorious West End Scandal
as well as in Mr. Stead’s revelations of a few
years ago.” How there can be any connection be-
tween the theory established by scientific dis-
covery and philosophic research and the filth en-
gendered by aristocratic idleness and class robbery
is not evident. The purest, noblest, most en-
lightened and highly cultivated men of the day
are Agnostics, but the reputation of Darwin,
Spencer, Tyndall, Owen, Huxley, Morley,
Buchner, Haeckel, and countless, others of the
illustrious living and immortal dead, cannot be.
permanently sullied by an insect which crawls
into print through the grace of a clerical editor.
Exploiter Stanley, who has been very properly
denounced by John Burns as a “ buccaneer,”
will probably receive a great reception when he
reaches England. Why, no unbiassed reasoner
knows. He is a mere adventurer’, plucky, pro-
bably ; cruel and unscrupulous, unquestionably.
That the blacks of Central Africa' should resent
his commercial and ostentatious invasion of their
native.wilds is only natural. The Englishman who
resisted the burgling of his country would be con-
sidered a patriot and a hero, but Stanley shoots
down hundreds of niggers, and while he is hailed
as the hero, they are called ‘‘ rebels,” ‘‘barbarians, ”
and “malicious savages,” The cruelty and rapacity
of the self-advertising English explorer is only
equalled by the credulity, stupidity and hypocrisy
of his countrymen.
A labouring man named Scott was, last week
sent to prison by the Melbourne District Court,
for a breach of agreement with his employer, under
the Master and Servants’ Act. We greatly mis-
take if the Australian public will suffer this kind
of thing. An employe cannot send his employer
to gaol under any circumstances, civilly, and why
should the vice versa work ? It is a miserable old
English remnant of feudal tyranny. The terms
master and servant have gone out of English law.
It is now employer and workman. Disraeli, as
Premier, said in 1875 that the legislation of that
year placed employer and employe for the first
time in a position of equality before the law.
Things have gone ahead too since that time. Yet a
free Australian can be “lumbered” with impunity,
at the instance of his. employer, for a mere civil
breach of contract. It is no use our talking at
large about Political rights, while the shoe pinches
like this.
There is discussion in Melbourne over the pro-
posal to establish a Foundling Hospital as a
necessity of that growing and improving city.
Melbourne wants such an hospital and so does
Sydney. The tender mercies of the righteous are
cruel, and they raise the moral cry about “en-
couraging vice. ” Society is responsible for all the
infanticides. For a mother to slay her babe is
the last thing any creature on earth can be driven
to—even by the cruelties of false religion. A
woman like George Eliot or George Sand is an
instructor even of the clergy, but if she is help-
less, then she becomes a “.poor Magdalen, my
brethren!” Anyhow, a statesman must surely
find it wrong for fine, healthy young citizens to
be assassinated. Some benevolent Melbourne
tabbies will say, “ Oh, but we have the Lying-in
Hospital.” So you have, one of those places
where the poor are experimented on for the
benefit of the rich. Young Sawbones must prac-
tise on common china before he is allowed to touch
aristocratic porcelain. Oh, the humbug of this
talk about the piety which prompts the foundation
of the Lying-in Hospital! The wicked illegiti-
mate mothers afford the corpus vile. No matter
what becomes of them. The young doctor thus
learns his business. Besides this, the tabbies
there satiate their appetites for scandal.
Dear Bulletin, —Wellington and Auckland, the
rival capitals of North New Zealand, are angrily
discussing which is the proper day for celebrating
the jubilee of the colony. Wellington intends
jubilating with the usual high wind on January
22, b:-ing the 50th anniversary of the arrival of the
first ship with immigrants. Auckland holds out
for having the celebration on January 29, the 50th
anniversary of the day on which Her Voracious
Majesty snapped up the islands by proclamation
to that effect issued on her behalf by Governor
Hobson. Wellington avers that the arrival of the
first bona Me settlers and not the landing of a
superior sort of policeman to look after them marks
the true era of settlement. Wellington has the
best of the argument, &nd when New Zealand
becomes an important and independent ally of the
great Australian Republic, the arrival of the
Aurora with the first settlers at Port Nicholson
will be commemorated for ages after the Imperial
connection is forgotten. New Zealand bards of
the future will sing of the coming of the Aurora
as American poets have sung and sing of the com-
ing of the May Flower. — Democrat Napier,
N.Z., 2nd Jan., 1890.
The following (probably written by a member of
the New South Wales Legislative Council) appears
in Sydney’s “ leading ” daily newspaper of Monday
week last: —
Sir,—lf a general European war is one of the inevitable
events to take place in the near future, may we not
reasonably hope that the Great Ruler of the Universe
will be on the side of the peaceably allied Powers should
they, after doing their utmost to maintain peace, fail and
be compelled to draw' the sword in righteous defence ?
As God is the same God now as He was in the days of old,
when He so signally delivered those nations who" in their
battles looked to and trusted in Him, faith is all that is re-
quired to bring dow r n the hot thunderbolts of Divine ven-
geance on the desperate and determined enemies of both Go'd
and man, who despise His goodness, trample His laws under
their feet, and go headlong on to everlasting destruction,
to which, on revealed testimony, we feel warranted in
believing they have been appointed. There have been
and will be to the end of time the voluntary slaves of lust,
which history reveals in recording diabolical acts of crime
and cruelty sufficient to make one’s hair stand on end, and
blood run cold. Such fiends in human form are more to
be dreaded than the most savage beasts of prey, and no-
thing short of Divine power can stay their hand, having
given themselves over to a demoniacal spirit with the
prince of devils as their commander-in-chief. 1 am, &c.—
Peace if Possible. January 10.
The Messrs. Fairfax should, avoid publishing
such things at any time near full moon. We
have seen lunacy-certificates given for nut ch less
reason.


Photography. —Charlemont and Co. (vice-regal
photographers), in the Royal Arcade, beg to an-
nounce that they have now nduced the price of
their Cabinet Photographs to One Guinea per doz.
any style—bust, vignette or three-quarter figure.
Messrs. Charlemont feel assured that this reduc-
tion in price will meet the many who refrained
from sitting in their studio, solely on account of
the price hitherto being higher than they might
care to pay. Grosvenor Galleries, Royal Arcade.
“The leading Packet Tea in New South Wafei*
is the Famous Billy Tea. Its consumption is
at least double that of any other brand in the
market.”
PACKED ONLY BY
James Inglla & Oo. r
4 & 6 Dean’s Place, SYDNEY
[?]
846 Maoquarie-street North, Sydney, January 22, 1890.
Mv Dear Moorabinda, —
As somebody tersely puts it—l’ve always got an
authority for all my vulgarisms—“ Floral nomenclature
is going to perfect smash.” At the recent horticultural
convention, at Sydney Town Hall, there were some lovely
dahlias on view in the most beautiful of colourings and
moulded like wax, so, of course, I became maudlin in their
presence and started to quote yards of gurgling Parkes-
isms at them, and was generally becoming too clinging
for words when my eye fell on their tags. Several which
I had known in early childhood under the poetic names of
“ Duchess,” “ Portia,” “ The Laird,” and “ Chieftain,”
were re-named (by some subservient gardener anxious to
curry favour probably) “ Joseph Ashby,” “Mrs. Carter,”
“ Mrs. Saunders,” while the fourth rejoiced in the ex-
tremely fleshly cognomen of “Mrs. Trotter!” These
names are not particularly suggestive-they are not even
euphonious - besides, if the originals are still keeping a
stiff upper-lip in this wicked world how would they feel
if, parading past some suburban garden at watering-pot-
time, they heard a voice loudly directing John “to pick
the slugs off Mrs. Carter, and wash Mrs. Saunders’
stalk in bird-lime?” And it isn’t only dahlias that are
forcibly born again. A few weeks ago I was shown a rose
called the “ Rupert Smith !” It’s a wonder they don’t
change the sweetly-titled “Souvenir” into “Good Old
Mary Ann ’’—isn’t it ?
One of the most cherished fads of Sydney society—
fondly fostered, of course, by the fiend with the camera -
is having various apartments in their houses photographed
very large and hung about in shop-windows with “ Draw-
ing-room, Snodgrass Lodge,” in big letters underneath
the picture. It’s an English fashion, and, like most Eng-
lish fashions, it is seen to better advantage on its native
heath, for a swell English drawing-room, with its gener-
ally luxurious and sometimes even historical setting
makes a very pretty photo., but when one looks at it as
“ Drawing-room, Snodgrass Lodge,” one feels that the
photographer has labelled it for the same reason that the
artist did when he elaborately explained “ This is an
’ouse.” One of the sitting-rooms thus perpetuated in
nitrate of silver had a stiff suite—six chairs-and-a-sofa-
sort-of-thing set crudely about the room ; the centre was
held by a large oval-table crowned with books at mea-
sured intervals, and a large glass-case, obviously filled with
wool-work-flowers or a stuffed parrot; while a large pier-
glass and one or two pictures completed the central
features of the caravan. It looked like a hoarding-house
boudoir or a country hotel “parlour,” and why it was
photographed—except as a warning to people about to
furnish—is to me a dark and deadly mystery. Another
interior had a housemaid busily engaged in dusting,
while a member of the family sat deeply absorbed in a
book ! I will not aggravate the situation by comment.
Speaking of photography, don’t you think it’s a peculiar
thing that a woman—save and except she is an actress-
should always wear a simper when she’s having her
picture taken? Look round any gallery and if every
galvanised head isn’t sniggering at you as if life were one
perpetual mask “ I’m no true man,” as Caesar says. But,
unfortunately, smiles don’t become everybody, except in
moral tales, and to see agirl with a Medea profile grinning
a sickly grin, or a woman “with world-weary eyes”
smiling jauntily with the lips only, doesn’t raise the
photographer to the level of an artist. And another thing
observable in galleries is the prevalence of women in
evening undress. I don’t know why, but girls, old and
young, all seem to take something off when they sit for
their photos, just now. Mind you, if a girl has a nice
dress and a pretty bust and arms I don’t see why she
shouldn’t show them—to a certain extent, of course—but
to be photographed in heterogeneous finery cut V-shaped
over a bust like a turkey’s comb and arms like gas-spills is
playing it very low down on your friends’ photo.-stands,
besides giving your dearest friends a very wide field for
satirical comment to mutual admirers.
It’s not only women who must contend with fractious
kitchen underlings in this degenerate epoch—their hus-
bands also have to bear the heat and burden of the day
quarrelling over the saucepans, just as their wives do at
home. And the latest masculine servant worry is that
the federated stewards and cooks have formed new rules,
one of which is that all the members shall be exempt from
paying for broken plate and lost cutlery. Now, if
stewards are constructed on the same lines as their female
prototypes, I should advise shipowners to throw up the
sponge on this announcement or else provide tin-pannikins
and pewter-plates chained to the table-legs for the use of
their passengers, who would be advised to bring their
own knives and forks, for which the company accepts no
risk. Bridget without the tear of replacement before her
eyes means a small competency to the hardware gentleman
round the corner, and as male cooks are probably as
malignant as the other sort, there really is nothing but
pewter left in it, even for shipping millionaires. But
apropos ol the new difficulty, a lady envied for her well-
trained servants, told me that her tabby tea-party was
rudely disturbed recently by a masculine friend “in-
terested in shipping,” who mingled in the garrulous
throng and actually led the talk up to servant manage-
ment. Afterwards, when she heard of the stewards’
announcement, she saw through his sudden domestic
tendencies He was simply hanging round for tips.
In the dreary dulness of summer Sydney the cere-,
monies attendant on the marriage of Miss Lulu Roberts—
eldest daughter of the hospitable Mr. and Mrs. C. J.
Roberts, of Potts Point, with Mr. A. H. Sandford, on
16th inst., fed a very hungry social place indeed. Of the
thronging guests not one wore a bored expression, even
during the ceremony, which points the moral that if you
want to please your coterie give your ohavoo in the silly
season. The bride looked as nice as any bride could do in the
orthodox ghastly get-up— the toilette being in white plain
and figured silk with bodice and train of the figured, her
train being held by a diamond star, while her four brides-
maids—all her sisters—in w hite and eau-de-nil and gold
chain bangles, the gift of the happy man, didn’t
look so painfully self-conscious as is usual with
maidens. Altogether it w 7 as a pretty wedding, but there
was nothing very novel in any of the arrangements,
orthodox rules being strictly adhered to. As for the
dresses, Mrs. C J. Roberts wore leaf-brown silk relieved
with white silk and brown velvet; a lovely toilette was in
pale petunia silk with side panels broidered in silver,
suede gloves to the elbow, and Paul Jones hat adorned
with silver lace and lilac ; another pretty gown with the
skirt made in the new 7 gathered style and full gathered
bodice, was in ivory-white with touches of lace at waist
and neck, and pretty hat en suite ; and the Mayoress
(Mrs. Burdekin) wore whits summer silk relieved with
apple-green velvet. For her going-away gown the bride
chose a fawn w'oollen material relieved with velvet of a
darker shade, hat en suite. The presents were legion, and
included gifts from Governor and Lady Oarington and a
large number of other notabilities.
Mat rimonial matters are looking up beside the Beautiful
Harbour. A society miss, who was a debutante at one of
the vice-regal balls in ’BB, has since then received four
eligible offers of marriage, none of which a dragon parent
will allow her to accept. She will be very rich some day,
and pa is probably hanging out for a title. How about
Lord Porchester, who is coming out for his health —an
object that his name bears out singularly well, doesn’t it?
The meeting held the other evening in Sydney Town
Hall to discuss the establishment of a permanent orchestra,
was mainly remarkable for the awesome enthusiasm of a
large fat basso and the wonderful unanimity which pre
vailed. After much speechifying it was finally resolved
that the concerts be held on Saturday afternoon at the
Centennial Hall, that the prices be moderate, and that
ladies be included in the canvassing committee—a wise
amendment put in by a fascinating medical man, who
probably knows how much a good word from the women
has done for his practice. Four hundred subscribers are
necessary to furnish perpetual national harmony, half of
whom are already booked. With lady canvassers to the
rescue, the other two hundred also may be considered as
booked.
One gets positively tired of reading of the terrible
accidents that happen to indifferent equestriennes who
are thrown and always dragged, through their feet jam-
ming in the tight stirrup. So it is with great satisfaction
I announce the welcome advent of the patent stirrup
which puts an end to the drag business completely. “ A
spring acted on by the toe of the boot goes upward and
causes the bottom of the stirrup to fall in two pieces,
instantly liberating the foot,” This boon isn’t procurable
in Sydney yet, but a well-known saddler is importing one
for a timid friend of mine at a very nominal rate. And
"'bile on horsey topics, let me warn j’ou not to purchase
an English saddle without measuring the horns. To make
the habit sit well during the aimless Park amble, English
saddlers make them with very short horns, which slip
under the knee if your horse jumps or shies.
On dit that a recent very fashionable wedding was
brought about by the lady casually remarking of the
present bridegroom to a lady friend, “Don’t you think
him exceedingly handsome ?” —the ordinary feminine
formula “Isn’t he good looking?” not being often produc-
tive of such successful results. Maidens are respectfully
solicited to try the other recipe in future. And, speaking
of weddings, the very latest idea is to have the cake
resting in a nest of real orange-blossom, fruit and
leaves. In a city within coo-ee of Parramatta this pretty
fashion is easy of emulation, especially since the district
fruit-growers generally have only two-railed fences.
People who are now suffering untold horrors in city
terraces will rejoice and make merry when they hear that
the very latest invention is “portable fresh air.” Say you
are hungry for a whiff of the ocean. You buy an ozone
ball - something in the shape of Gobo’s-cum-Violet-
\ arley’s-tear— which you crack in a small room and are at
once breathing the brisk salt sea. Or say you thirst for
the perfume of meadow hay and clover-bloom—all you
have to do is to buy a hay-ball, and under its realistic
influence you almost mow down the tallow locks of your
eldest daughter. Fresh-air balls ought to boom in
theatres, trams, and everywhere when two or more are
gathered together, but fancy the “ hollow look existence
will put on” to the sailor who has just smashed a “six-
penny clover” sitting beside the man from Way Back
who is basking in five shillings’ worth of ozone !
The other day a young English girl was telling a
colonial friend of all the great people she had met and
conversed with at home. “ But,” said the cornstalk,
“ you have never spoken to royalty, have you ?” “Oh
yes, I have,” answered the E.G., and, upon being pressed
to name which prince it was and to give the gist of the
conversation, she went on to say: “ Well, you see, it was
at a garden-party, and the Prince of Wales, in passing me,
trod upon my skirt, upon which he begged my pardon.”
“ Oh, is that all?” “ That’s all.”
A leading pianist had some fun the other evening at the
house of a certain wealthy person to whom Euterpe is
merely a vulgar unknown barbarian. It is now and then
this pianist’s jocular wont (in private) to perform* in
sharps with the light hand and flats with the left while
the audience beg for mercy and tie themselves into
knots, and at the aforesaid wealthy person’s house he did
the same thing for a lark, expecting every moment an
agonised prayer to “please leave off.” But no, the more
dreadful the discord the more his hostess sat back in her
chair smiling like a rat-trap, and when he finished with a
particularly awful chord she clapped her hands and said
“Lovely! wasn’t it a morso of Choppings?” Which the
lady’s name is
In a recent daily I read that “ the Sydney tailoresses
held their meeting last night. A fair number were pre-
sent.” After such a re/elation of inertness on the part of
these young women it is difficult to sympathise with them
when they wail feebly in the papers over the sweating
system and other evils. By attending the meetings and
so gradually forming themselves into a protected body
the pale-faced drudges of the needle would soon have it
all their own way with the “sweaters,” instead of which
they spend their evenings I don’t know how, neglect the
meetings, and then complain that they are undersold if
they stand for better terms and treatment ! By forming
a union underselling would be impossible, but how can
people organise who only attend their meetings in “fair
numbers?”
They are saying in Melbourne just now that after you
have seen a talented blonde professional in a riding habit
you cease to wonder at her faithfulness to flowing Greek
outlines and generous girdles.
On a tombstone in a country cemetery I came on the
startling epitaph: “In memory of (say) Bill So-and-So,
son of George So-and-So and Mary Blank !" And if I
were to tell you Bill So-and-So’s real baptismal, wouldn’t
you just sit up and yell for more ! I suppose it was the
mother’s little way of getting even with her Lothario,
and if so, she couldn’t well have hit on a more successful
device, if only this suggestive tombstone wasn’t a hundred
miles from anywhere. J wonder if “ Bill ” has seen it ?
If he writes to me 1 will give him the exact bearings of
the grassy moundlet.
Yours affectionately, Sappho Smith.
The Referee.
If any member of the A. J.C. is dissatisfied with
a system which allows a certain clique in the Union Club
to elect, by using the large number of proxies of country
members at their command, their own committee, why
does not that member get nine other dissatisfied members
to sign a requisition calling a special meeting and have
the rule allowing proxy-voting in the election of the com-
mittee altered ?
* # *
Chicago, the Caulfield Cup winner of ’BB, was
shipped off to England last week on the Ringmaster
racket. Cleverly worked, Chicago ought to win a big
stake for his friends. The horse carries so much flesh
that the English touts are sure to vote him “short of
work ” when he is as fit as the proverbial violin, so with a
little patience Messrs. M‘Evoy and Co. should be able to
bring off a “dead snip” at fairly long odds. But “its
gently, gently, gently does the trick- slowly, softly, never
be too quick,” as Fanny Liddiard warbles in the Melbourne
panto
» * *
Ticket-snatching or “ brief-giabbing ” appears
to be coming into vogue at some of tie race-meetings
round Melbourne. It is a good old Hinglis'i pastime and
rare fun for the fellow who gets away with the “ brief.”
The penalty for not getting away is £5 or one month.
4. * *
Donald Dinnie’s day is past. His brother
Scott, Duncan C. Ross, easily “ did ” Donald in a three-
style wrestle at Melbourne last week.
* * *
The cable tells us that John Roberts will be
among us before the end of May. It is improbable that
the champion will do much more than cover his expenses
for the six months’ trip ; there are very few “ 10s. reserved
seat” patrons for exhibition games, and a match for big
money seems out of the question. Harry Evans, a
Britisher, is the best man in Australia, but a match be-
tween him and his old pal would have little interest for
the public, even if Evans found a backer at “half the
game ” start. If any patriot feels disj. osed to put up
genuine money for the best native performer—well doubt-
less Roberts will give the aspirant 7000 out of 10,000, and a
ghastly beating. Australia can’t play billiards yet.
* * *
Even the Cabbage Garden cricketers fall down
and worship the British Lion, doncherknow ! Creig and
Blackham want the misconduct of Giffen in the late inter-
colonial match, Victoria v. South Australia, brought
under the notice of the Marylebone Club. We shall next
have some member of the V.R.C. moving that the run-
ning of s me “stiff” be reported to the Hinglish racing
au horities, or the management of the Carrington asking
Sheffield to sanction the disqualification of some “cronk.”
* * *
The forthcoming Intercolonial cricket-match
becomes of more than ordinary interest, owing to the
fact that Victoria is only one ahead, and a win for N.S.W.
will make level pegging.
* * m
On dit that a certain cricketer, who was behind
hand in his “ debts of honour,” will have to make a satis-
factory arrangement with the bookmakers, as well as
show better playing form before he can be included in
the next Australian Eleven. Rumour has it that he
“ went down ” for a lot lately on the turf.
* * #
Here’s an anomaly. A member of the Ring
mystic they sometimes call it—may go stone-broke in
business and pay his creditors 2d. in the pound. But
unless he’s a defaulter in the matter of bets, he can still
remain an honourable member. If he doesn’t pay he will
be posted. If he does, whose money is it?
O * *
Peter Boland, middle-weight champion of Vic-
toria, was fairly overmatched and outclassed by Jim Hall
at Foley’s the other evening. Half-a-sovereign was the
advertised pi ice of admission, and this was paid by a lot
of peop e, but just ere business began there was an inrush
of people of the kind who don’t ordinarily pay haif-a-
sovere gn, even to get married. The fight proved to be
worth not tenpence. Hall has not only the advantage in
height, reach, and slightly in weight, but he knows three
times as much as the other man, a d has the coolness at
all times to put what he knows in practice. Hall, who
muchly resembles Jackson and Griffo in style, is also
greatly troubled with a fault of the darkey’s, either
due to good-nature or inertia, but probably a com-
pound of both, which prevents him taking advan-
tage of the dazedness produced by a staggerer
to inflict more punishment. Boland, who is a
very game man, has only one hit, that a slow, wild
right-handed scoop that might knock out a hypnotised
subject, but is scarcely likely to fetch anyone who is
thoroughly alive. The cool, wily Hall used either to duck
or dodge these would-be “ knockers-out,” or step in to
them, and much of the applause that Boland received
from his admirers for hits that apparently got “ home ”
was due to blows that smote the muggy atmosphere be-
neath Hall’s armpits, or landed harmlessly with their
force spent between his shoulder-blades. “ Pendragon ”
wrote, the other day, referring to the behaviour of
Smith’s seconds in the Jackson match : “ For 30 years or
more I have wondered why seconds are considered clever
for no other reason than that they have loud and raucous
voices which they use for the purpose of objecting to
everything and everybody proposed by the opposition.”
Sydney has not been much troubled with this sort of
thing, but “Pen.’s” remark received fresh point on wit-
nessing the performance of one of Boland’s seconds, who,
absolutely useless with towel, sponge, or bottle, did a fine
and large amount of blatant barracking to gain time for
his exhausted principal. In the fourteenth round, when
Boland was “ dead to the world,” this second accused the
other side of putting resin on their principal’s gloves, in
very strong language, which he kept up till the ter-
mination of the sixteenth round, when he forcibly tore off
Boland’s glove and threw it up in token of defeat.
Boland, to do him justice, seemed utterly disgusted with
the second’s disgraceful conduct. Mr. Inspector-General
Fosbery was represented by one of his myrmidons, who
evidently thought the cursing and strong language was
part and parcel of the performance, as he made no more
sign than he did w hen Hall’s second backed his man and
staked the money under the bluebottle’s very nose.
* * *
Placed horses in the Manchester November
Handicap, the last big flat race of the English season,
started at 16, 33, and 40 to 1 respectively, while odds of
20 to 1 for a “ shop” were to be had about Father Con-
fessor, who finished fourth. The runners numbered 28 in
all, not more than will probably start for next New r-
market Handicap, at Plcmington. Half of the New-
market horses will be carefully stiffened, however, and
the other half will be rushed up to miserably short prices
by backers who are only too delighted to get on a “ real
goer,” anyhow. Not that Australian backers are much worse
than the bookmakers as regards their inability to calcu-
late the fair chances of the game. The “books” have a
vague and general idea that they will be safe in offering
“6 to 4 on the field,” whereupon the muddle-headed
backers say “C to 4 on the field is the price,” and take it
about something. They will even take it about two or
three horses in succession for the same race, instead of
letting their “ fancies” rip until the layers must needs be
driven to find out the longest prices they can offer con-
sistent with a fair prospect of getting “ round.”
# * #
A fellow-passenger of Searle’s, on that last trip,
states that the story about a cold caught after playing
cricket at Colombo, is all bunkum. There was no
cricket-playing, but Searle, on the first or second day
after leaving Colombo, when the thermometer was 90 in
the shade, started walking at almost racing pace round
and round the deck, with his trainer, and, being out of
fettle, became overheated. He capped this performance
by going straight into a cold bath, and was laid up next
day. He was treated for sunstroke, and the rest is known,
* # #
Seatle, Santa Cruz, San Jose, San Diego, and
Los Angeles, have all communicated with Peter Jackson,
each wanting him to meet Sullivan on some part of its
territory. The inducements run from 15,000 dollars to
twice that amount.
* * #
A N. Z. writer states that Hempton, the crack
sprinter, in ’B4, at Wellington, in a 100 yards handicap,
gave starts up to 17 yards and won by 10 yards in
9 1-Ssecs. Hempton probably did not make the time, but
there can be little doubt that the men to whom he gave
17 yards and a 10 yards beating could have been little
inside 13-seconds performers, and were more adapted for
funereal avocations than the cinder-track.
* # #
Harris and Co.’s “Challenge Totalisator,” passed
through the machine over £6OOO in two days, Ist and 2nd
Jan., 1890, at the West Australian Turf Club meeting.
* * #
The recent “ crook ” between Gatidaur and
Teenier has caused St. John, the former’s backer, to
retire from rowing affairs.
# * *
Ike Weir, whom Murphy, the New Zealander,
has defeated in the States, is a most accomplished pugilist.
He is a first-class jockey, can shoot copper cents from
between his wife’s fingers, plays the piano, is an expert
swimmer (having saved two lives), dances jigs, sings
character songs, and, if we may believe a hoaxing Yankee
paper, has written a play called “Muscle Wins a Wife.”
# * #
A trio of Sydney bookmakers are known re-
spectively as “The Coroner,” “The Undertaker,” and
“The Gravedigger”—they have so much to do with
stiff-’uns.
* * *
The cable says that Sullivan refuses to meet
Jackson unless for a purse of £4OOO. According to the
last Yankee papers the mighty John L. was walking “on
his uppers,” and almost crying for first show with Jack-
son, so that if the California Club stand out at 1 3000 Sul-
livan must come to terms. Ye gods ! quarrelling with
£3OOO for a fight which, in all probability, will be over in-
side ten rounds with a black eye as the biggest damage.
Anyhow, the London Referee styles Sullivan “ a battered
old boozer who cannot now have any constitution worth
consideration,” so his show looks small.
# • #
The Melbourne magistrate's decision fining
Pluto a paltry £5 and costs for assaulting Griffo(in a
70-round fight, if you please) at the local athletic club
will not put much of a damper on such contests. We
presume that Griffo will now be fined for punching Pluto.
* # #
The Andrew Town testimonial in all amounts to
over £3OOO. Like many another good man, Mr. Town has
set the milk and others have skimmed it. It is pleasant
to see them hand him some of the cream.
The clipper Cutty Sark has just run to
England in 75 days.
In Tonga land is not alienated, but 99
years leases are given.
Now that the N.S. W. Local Option League
are sitting in Sydney the consumption of Mar-
shall’s Tonic Netvine is bound to increase. There’s
no better cure for morning headaches.
A wily San Francisco bookseller advertises
in large letters over his book-list Your hus-
band would appreciate any of the following new
books and stay at home and read them.' 1 '
Prize-fights have cost the ’Frisco clubs
over £23,000 during the past two years. Jackson
is said to have received £l5OO for three fights,
and earned £4OO by teaching sparring inside 12
months.
Now that the old Duke of Garnpridge has
lost his morganatic wife, we shall have the Queen
imploring him to marry into some royal circle,
and thereby endeavour to procreate another
blessed duke.
Apart from the Clarence River supply,
N.S. Wales is computed to have over 78 billions
of tons of coal available. Reckoning only the
seams in sight there is enough to supply three
times the present output for 1356 years to come.
A Mackay (Q.) clergyman, who is a
bachelor, so far as people are aware, has just
electrified his flock by preaching on Sunday even-
ing a sermon (from the text “ There was a Star ”)
dealing almost exclusively with the subject of
“ Cold feet in bed. ”
According to invitation, a sober represer
tative of The Bum ktin attended the breakfast of
the N.S.W. Local Option League at the Sydney
Central Coffee Palace, but not receiving any
attention, and moreover having a Frenchman’s!
appetite, which precluded him from entering at
so early an hour into a bun-eating competition
with the assembled clergy, he thought it prudent
to withdraw and thus avoid all risk of being eaten
himself. . ,
Sir Charles Dilke’s new work, “Problems
of Greater Britain,” is probably more stupid than
Fronde’s “Oceana.” Dilke describes David!
Syme, of the Age, as a land-nationaliser and the
forerunner of Henry George in Australia. Even
if Syme hadn’t long since ratted from the Radical
cause, it would be hard to discover the reason for
linking his name to that of Henry George, a man.
who writes his own articles with no sinister pur-
pose, instead of merely ordering them to suit his
own interests.
District Court Judge Miller (Q..), has, it.
is said, been making his court sit for 36 hours
right off, meal times excepted, to suit the con-
venience of the Crown Prosecutor, who wanted,
to go South. Three jurors engaged were, it is
alleged, constant y asleep. “From midnight to
2 a.m. the scene was deplorable and was a perfect
mockery of justice.” Never mind, the judge had
a precedent in more than one action of the dear
old judge who will never be criticised while he
continues to inflict savage sentences and shake'
hands amiably with the greasers of the daily press.


A GHOST
is not a photograph, nor a photo, a ghost—but a good photo, is a
true reflection of the original. l For high-art photos, go to the
London Palace of Art, 10 Park-street, Sydney. Country photographers’ work from developement
o completion executed at lowest prices. Bromides a speciality, Staff of artists kept for working up.
Use Batho’S Baking Powder.
Sir Charles Dilke calls B, B. Wise ‘*a
man of the future.” The Millennium, like the
Day of General Resurrection, is in the future.
A programme of 33 matches has been
arranged for the seventh Australian eleven in
England, from Bth. May to 11th. Sept., inclusive.
A few dates are still vacant.
A literary treat for Australians abroad
and for absent friends of Australian readers of The
Bulletin ; “ A Golden Shanty—Australian stories
and sketches in prose and verse by Bulletin
writers. ” The brightest, best and most original
shilling book ever published in this country. Send
it to your English friends whom Sladen’s Anthology
has disgusted. One shilling; postage in Australia
sd. extra.
Colonel Templeton, who has undertaken
to unravel the tangled skein of the Premier Build-
ing Society affairs, is rapidly reducing the staff to
skin and bone. Right through the Christmas
holidays they were wrestling with figures at the
office in Collins-street, Melbourne. If a clerk had
the temerity to ask the Colonel whether he was
expected to fall dead at his ledger, the Colonel,
without displaying any more emotion than a
granite tombstone, would merely tell the muti-
neer to die just how he chose. Or so rumour
says. A satisfactory report is expected to be the
outcome of these fearful physical sufferings, and
ere long, doubtless, the Premier will arise like a
ph«enix from the ashes of past muddling, chast-
ened, purified, and good for twenty-five “ rollerts "
in the pound sterling. - • '
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Theatre Royal “Aladdin.”
Her Majesty's “A Midsummer Night’s
Dream.”
Criterion “ The Balloon.”
Cyolorama Battle of Gettysburg.
School of Arts Harry Rickards’ Company.
Palace Museum The Mermaid.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Theatre Royal “ Cinderella.”
Princess’ “ The Guv’nor.”
Opera House “ Widow O’Brien.”
Alexandra .... “ Monte Christo.”
St. George’s Hall .... “ Arabian Nights.”
Victoria Hall. ~ T Variety Company.
Town Hall Santley Farewells.
The “Midsummer Night’s Dream” has
fairly caught on at Her Majesty’s, and now at the
close of the fourth week the attendance shows
little sign of decrease; the electric-light is, there-
fore, hardly required in the front of the house
where the smile of Manager Macdonald illumines
the vestibule. The singing of the Misses Phillip?
and Salinger and the orchestral contribution
by Mr. Eugarde’s tuneful choir are among the
features of the performance. Some of the dancing,
especially that variety in which an obese maiden
sloshes on to the left foot, and, quivering like a
Jelly, solemnly wobbles her right limb behind her,
is rather monotonous.
** * *
After a twenty-six nights’ run, “ Friends ”
is taken off on Saturday evening to make way for
“Our Bitterest Foe” and “The Balloon,” in
which latter play George Anson has a screaming
part. As the houses were beginning to dwindle
slightly the management are probably right in
withdrawing “ Friends,” which will be a sure
card for future revival.
* He * *
At Sydney School of Arts Harry Rickards
continues to do first-class business. This Satur-
day evening will be introduced an entirely new
programme opening with a comedietta named
“Coo-Biddy,” succeeded by an olio, in which the
star will introduce the descriptive sketch entitled
“Asin a Looking-glass.” The Saturday matinees
continue to attract large audiences, chiefly com-
posed of children and their feminine caretakers.
* * *
At Bondi Aquarium, Mrs. and General
Mite daily hold large levees. The, General is ten
inches shorter than Tom Thumb, and weighs
about sixty pounds less, so if Barnum made a for-
tune with Thumb, Professor Flynn must be
making several with the General. The grounds
are now electrically illuminated, and this is favor-
able to outdoor skating during these warm and
lovely evenings.
»* » #
At the Royal Museum the “ Amphitrite ”
is drawing large audiences of those who delight in
graceful attitudes and undisturbed contemplation
of the human form divine. Downstairs the “Mer-
maid,” with her bewitching smiles, and on the first
floor our old friend Mdlle. Josephine have as
many constituents as ever. Like his progenitor,
Solomon can yard-up the good-looking girls.
* * * *•
We learn from the Cyclorama’s visitors,
book that Julian Thomas charged at Gettysburg
with the 15th Virginias, one of the “Johnnies’”
stack regiments. This completely upsets the long-
cherished idea that the “ vagabond ” fell lighting
manfully at Waterloo.
■sis it?
At Sydney Royal everything improves,
orchestration, singing and dancing—especially the
latter —except the ghastly libretto, the rhythm
whereof has an irregular and ear-wounding
crunch, which suggests a troop of very fat men
crossing a belt ot newly-laid road-metal. This
week the experiment of having early nights from
7 to 10 p.m for children was to be tried on Wed-
nesday and Friday. These early performances, if
successful, may be repeated. As business con-
tinues good, it is impossible to say how long the
Pantomime may run.
** * *
At Melbourne Alexandra the hot, breath-
less silence of Saturday night was invaded by a
job lot of conspirators, disguised in habiliments
cf no conceivable period, who staggered on and off
the stage until it was time to scoot for the last
tram. The desperate characters aforesaid were
understood to be playing a dramatised version of
“Monte Cristo,” but to all practical purpose
they might as well have been playing skittles.
Mo human interest attached to anybody, save the
hero of Dumas’ old romance, and even Mr. Dam-
pier’s efforts were robbed of all solemnity by the
fact that the Gaiety Company had been there
before. When he shrieked for his Mercedes in a
lungeon-cell, Mr. Dampier awakened furious
memories of Nellie Farren, and when he subse-
quently turned up as the Abbe Somebody it was a
matter for general regret that he didn’t sing
“I’m a jolly little chap all round.” Ere
aow, however, it may have become possible
to receive “Monte Cristo” in a reverent spirit,
in which case the drama oan be recommended
as a lively spectacle conducted on a large and
liberal scale. It should be possible to elaborate
the strong parts and cut out many of the weak-
nesses without damage to the general incoherence
of the narrative. Possibly, too, Dampier will in-
sist upon the villains (he seems to be the only
white man on the job) adopting something like a
comprehensible get-up, while a broad expanse of
heaving billows may be expected to shake down
into a fine scenic effect after a little practice. In
the drama proper Mr. D. appears to greater ad-
vantage than in the two prologues ; Baker gives a
temperate and artistic performance of Villefort,
find young Atholwood, a new addition to the
crowd, will also fill the billet when he leaves off
carrying his neat headpiece at an angle of 45.
Two or three ladies walk through colourless
characters, and the rest of the support is tolerably
out of gear.
** * *
Other Melbourne shows have been losing
& little weight these tropical times, especially
“Dr. Cupid,” who is now in the last stage of
limpness and general debility. On Saturday this
spineless delusion makes way for a revival of
“ The Guv’nor,” a comedy which was a favourite
at the Princess’s in days of yore, when that
fashionnble resort hadn’t marble steps or a sliding
roof. “Cinderella” continues to boom in pon-
derous splendour at the Royal, and “ Widow
O’Brien,” embellished with mom songs, dances and
banjo-tweaking, will fill the Opera House with a
'well-beloved Milesian accent for another week yet.
Also, “ Arabian Nights,” preceded by a few
leasing impressions in burnt cork, is holding out
at St. Ge rge’fi Hall, the Cyolorama has just paid
a bloated dividend to shareholders, the Victo. ian
Hall maintains a desperate struggle with .adver-
sity, and Pain’s Fireworks purpose breaking the
record from Saturday forward. To this end a
representation of Old London has been fixed up
in the Societies’ Gardens, and when the citizens of
that ancient city have exhausted themselves in
boat-races, Lord Mayor’s Shows and May Day
revels, the irrepressible Pain will fire St. Paul’s,
and reduce the whole show to mechanical ruins.
May Day revels are especially appropriate in
connection with the Fire of London, because that
historical flare up occurred in September.
* * *- *
Santley’s farewell concerts have filled Mel-
bourne Town Hall far beyond the reasonable
dreams of England’s greatest—not to say oldest--
baritone. On two occasions, in fact, the seating
capacity of the great building was taxed to its
utmost limits, which sentence originated in The
Bulletin, but is constantly used by daily papers
without a word of acknowledgement. To-night
(Ihursday) and on Saturday there will be some
more final farewells in oratorio, when the people
who swear that Santley’s waistcoat is a liberal
musical education in itself are expected to look
upon him for the last time and die. These also
will be Madame Burton’s concluding efforts in a
Scriptural direction. It is rumoured that the
lovely apparition will shortly relapse into comic
opera along with Snazelle, Nellie Stewart and
others of the new combination. This promises to
be a matter of great pith and moment at an early
date.
** * *
Victorian Natives, it appears, are arranging
their demonstrations for January 27th (Convict
Day), under the hazy impression that it will be
the 103rd Anniversary of Captain Cook’s Landing
m Australia. They probably imagine that the
gallant Captain was sent out for <e shooting a
hare. ”
Mrs. Langtry de-
clines to accept the melo-
drama she commissioned
young Haddon Chambers
to write, on the ground
that she is not suited
with a strong part, as per
agreement. The squabble
has been submitted to t he
arbitration of Mr. Ban-
croft, wh i ought to under-
stand what sort of part
agrees with the Ldy’s
constitution. Her first
London engagement was
with the Banoro'ts.
** * »
The f oundation-ston e
of the hall to be erected
in Campbell-street, Syd-
ney, by the Australasian
Secular Association will
be laid by Lecturer Col-
lins (who leaves for New
Zealand on a professional
tour shortly) on Sunday,
26th January, at 3 p.m.
Joseph Symes will lectm e
on the same day, morning
and evening, at West’s
Rooms.
»* * *
Walter Sherwin,
brother of the tuneful
Amy, who has settled
down in Sydney to teach
music, when assisting
a policeman to run in
pugilist Nolan, lost his
purse _ containing three
sovereigns, a gold-topped
cane, and had his clothes
literally drenched with
the blood that flowed
from the over-matched
officer. Thus was the
virtuous man’s loss
greater than that of the
evil-doer, for the gentle
Nolan was fined—five
pounds!
** * *
lu re the late Phil.
Beck, the Australian
Star ridiculed the idea
that his wonderful
memory was a great gift,
and stated that plenty
of schoolboys possessed
memories quite as good.
If this is so, it is quite
a pity the Star doesn’t
import some of these
schoolboys into its office.
Then it would be less
likely to make so awful
a lapse as to publish an alleged cablegram an-
nouncing the death of Earl Cairns (“ Gumboil’s ”
father), ayed 71 years. The Star didn’t remember
that old Earl Cairns died as far back as April,
1885, aged 66.
* * *
“ Jimmy ” Allison, of theatrical fame,
has, it was lately cabled, suddenly died in
America. All through, poor Jimmy’s life was a
tempestuous one, and in his later years misfortune
dogged his footsteps. At one period of his career
—in Adelaide —he had at his credit £lO,OOO of his
own money and a clear business to boot. Since
then every shilling has gone, and a lot besides, in
unfortunate speculations. While away in America
his wife died, and affairs, which were at a low ebb
with him on his departure, went to irretrievable
smash. He leaves two children, on whose behalf
a benefit may be given by the ever-generous
theatrical profession. James was a tailor by trade,
and first left “ the board” to canvas for Hiscocks’
“Atlas of Australia.”
The latest Tasmanian postage-stamp bears
the portrait of the editor of the local Mercury.
He’s a great deal better-looking than the Queen
if not so full-boarded.
Sydney Echo says that 900 of the choicest
scoundrels of France are in Australia, and that
Sydney has 800 of them. “Show me your com-
pany and I’ll tell you what you are.” Is that it ?
Mitchell, the English pugilist, was always
remarkable for avoiding danger. He is now lying
low before Jackson ami Slavin, though it is well
known that he is superior to Smith or any other of
the English champions.
At Poverty Point.
We learn from the Eve’nun Noose and a Sydney weekly
that “ O’Toole, the actor, is about to visit Australia.”
What does O’Haynes mean by this ?
Pretty Adelaide Detchon, here the other day, is now
touring Scotland. At Glasgow she was presented by the
faculty and students of the University with a be-
diamonded gold medal. The students, afterwards, re-
moved the horses from her carriage and dragged her
home.
Clement Scott’s epitaph for E. L. Blanchard ;
Rest thou in peace, one we have loved on earth ;
By taste a student and by nature mild ;
The star of friendship and the soul of mirth ;
A man of patience, and in heart a child.
G. C. Miln—whose well-deserved benefit seems des-
tined never to come off—is giving lectures and readings in
Gippsland. Miln has two or three of Shakespeare’s plays
by heart, and should be able to do a little in the Locke-
Richardson line.
Henry Irving’s wife was a Miss M'Galligan before
marriage. He has been Terry-fled into giving her a
separate allowance this long time, and she has brought
up their two sons, one of whom, Henry Brodribb, Junior,
is to act Marlowe’s Jew of Malta, in a revival at Oxford
University, where he studies, as did Chas. Kean at Eton.
He is the image of his Pa, and took a small part in the
University revival of “ Julius Caesar.” Mrs. Irving had
the folly to come out in some amateur theatricals, a few
years ago, to show how much better she was than Terry.
Lewis Scott says it only takes him three days to build
up a pantomine. Great Scott!
“How Bill Adams won Waterloo” is simply a parody
on “ Bill Malowney’s taste of love and glory” by James
Sheridan Le Fanu.
Gilbert and Sullivan’s latest opera, “ the Gondoliers,” is
described as virtuous and dull and only redeemed by
Sullivan’s music. The jokes are old and all stolen by
Gilbert from himself. The Gondoliers, it is said, is the
very dotage of libretto.
It is remarked as a curious thing on the Langtry-Geb-
hard Californian ranch that the young men there em-
ployed have curly moustaches, symmetrical legs, clear
complexions and fine eyes. Moreover, they are scrubbed,
shorn, tittivated, booted, and otherwise ornamented in a
manner not usually practised among the bucolics of
California.
THE LATE “JIMMY” ALLISON.
Charles (“ Hans”) Arnold is showing at the California
Theatre.
A Frisco paper says that Peter Jackson has accumulated
£4OOO by his seven months’ trip.
J. K. Emmet is starring the States in a new play sug-
gestively named “ Uncle Joe ; or, Fritz in a Madhouse.”
The late W. Hoskins first appeared as an amateur, pay-
ing 10s. for the privilege of playing Antonio in “ The
Merchant.” Then he paid £3 to play Hamlet.
An Adelaide correspondent points out that The Bul-
letin has not included Creswick in its list of actors who
have played Hamlet in Australia.
Joe Lawrence Van Tassell, the parachutist eaten by
sharks at Honolulu, was at one time a partner with Bald
win, and they used to jump alternately.
Lucia Harwood, of Brough and Boucicault’s Comedy
Company, sailed from Sydney in the Orient for London,
after five years in Australia. Miss Harwood, who
graduated at London Lyceum under Irving and Ellen
Terry, will probably return here soon.
Professor Pepper’s wife has died since arriving in
England.
The tenor Marconi, while singing in the Huguenots, re-
ceived intelligence that by tne breaking of a bank his
savings were lost. This so affected him that he imme-
diately lost his voice. Gold and notes all vanished.
In the “ Gondoliers” Gilbert has a hit at the unlimitep
distribution of titles in a song of which we quote the con-
cluding verses which contain the moral; —
“ When you have nothing else to wear
But cloth of gold and satins rare.
For cloth of gold you cease to care,
Up goes the price of sheddy.
“ In short, whoever you may be,
To this conclusion you’ll agree,
When everyone is somebodee,
Then no one’s anybody.”
The entire drift of the Sydney Royal Pantomime is in a
Protectionist direction—which simply means that "the
Firm ” know on which side their bread buttered.
CORRESPONDNECE
“ W. B. ” : John Morley was the originator of
the phrase. “ One Man One Vote.” Sir George Grey, of
N.Z., was the first statesman to give effect to it.... “ Sub-
scriber” (Charieville, Q.); That’s it, only the crime is one
which you can’t well write about.... “ Nomad ”: It won't
suit Bulletin, but perhaps some other paper would pub-
lish it..., “ M. 0.0.” : Brazil lacks little of being as large
as the whole of Europe ; the United States might be put
inside of it, and there would still be room for all ol
France.... “Constant Reader” (Wellington): We cannot
always guard against plagiarism. The article was sent us
in MS. apparently bona fide. ... “Cole Corneille” (Bal-
larat) ; Here is the printable part of your verses :
~., “ L.A.” :We must differ. “The Spectre in the Ward
robe,” printed in last week's Bulletin, is, in our opinion,
a “ model short story.” But, then, the French writers
are really the only ones who perfectly know how to tell a
story... “ Honi ” (Barrier): Thanks. Yes, the mine will
be baled out when the wire-pullers have baled out all the
scrip from the public pocket,...“ W.L.J.”: Mr. Parke
pleaded “not guilty” and “ justification,” but such pica,
would be inadmissible in N.S. Wales, where he would
have had to adhere either to one plea or the other....
“H.W.”: The stick-sucking drawing, anyhow, is by no
means an original idea .. “ D.T.O’C.” (Vic.); Write again
.“ Timon ”; Will read “ S.A.” ; John Dunn story
too steep “Radical” (Tas.): Thanks “1t.1.'
(Hughenden): Letter posted.... “ C.C.” (Surry Hills):
Yes, they nearly all originally appeared in The Bulletin.
They are now out of print, but you might procure a
second-hand copy at a high price.... “ P.P.” (Palmerston,
North, N.Z.): To hand “ Idrene Thornton”: Re-
ceived. “ J.P.8.” : Will read “ W.J.8.” : Under
consideration,... “ Siro ” (Maryborough, Q.) :If you sub-
scribe to the Sydney Jockey Turf Club they’ll have you
on toast.... “ Cold Feet ” (Mackay) : A good yarn to tell,
but please send something printable “ F.C.R.” :
Nothing in it for the general public. It might make
some of the locals snigger—and the rest take out libel-
writs, that’s ail “ VV.B.”(Mumblebong Warren) : To
hand.... “ J.J.M.” (Wilcannia) : Hope to remedy shortly.
.... “ W.8.L.” : As we receive about 800 letters a week on
an average, we can only send written replies in very
urgent cases... “H. Bourke” (S.H.): It is not quite
plain whether the late Sergeant Beatty unduly inter-
fered with the Cingalese who stabbed him. Most
police-officers of thirty years’ experience are pretty
level-headed “ J.E.P.G.” (Carlton): Thanks. We have
alluded to the subject “L.L.W.”: When two evenly-
balanced factions in a Little Pedlington like Bathurst
begin fighting about the merits and demerits of the
doctor resident at the local home of the sick poor,
we pity the sick poor, especially as there also ap-
pears to be a faotion-flght about the nurses.,..
“ W.A. J.” : Sir Alfred Stephen went to Tasmania ns
Solicitor-General in 1825 “ T.C.W.” : You should wait
on the U.S. C0n5u1....“ Native Bee”: You have not
marked your name on the MS “ T. Georgeson ” : We
don’t see how the Times type can be recast daily, con-
sidering that they are now using composing-machines
which also distribute type.... “ Scottish Chief ” : (1.) We
have no information as to the resignations except that a
large number have taken place. (2.) That is our opinion
with regard to the Single-tax. (3.) Most of The Bulletin’s
bards have been bushmen. (4.) Siebel is an Australian...
“ Rochester ” ; Thanks ... “ T.R.W.” (M.) : Will read. .
“ P.J., Junr.” (G.): Have analysed your suggestions, but
find no trace of a joke “ J.A.C.” (Brisbane): An
execrable paraphrase of G0rd0n....“ J.D.G.” (Q.): Not
no to the mark “Subscriber” (Berry J.): (1.) Yes.
All teachers must pay into the fund, and the authorities
have no power to except any teacher from the operation
of the rulfi. (2.) The chief benefit of the superannuation
fund is that it compels teachers to provide for a rainy
day, and this end could, for obvious reasons, hardly be so
well served by a system of compulsory insurance
“Sculler” : Beach was born on 6th September, 1852.
PETER LALOR (A TRIBUTE.)
Upon Eureka’s heights in none too halcyon days
The force of t.vranny was stayed awhile,
And he who was the rebel of the hour
Was not an alien hateful of the clime.
But such as you—a subject having wrongs
Which, knowing, dared to right them.
Not Kossuth to his country is more dear,
Nor Tell nor Winkelried by Switzer more revered
Than Peter Lalor by true patriots here.
Soon in the coming time his name shall be a spell
To rouse our youth to deeds of noble worth.
When sport shall takes its proper place once more,
This Lalor’s name shall light our firmament,
And shine as brightly ’neath the Southern Ooss
As does Centauris to his Stellar mates.
Meantime promote a statue to the man
Who did so much tor us—and Liberty.


WOLFE’S SCHNAPPS!
Be on your guard for FRAUDS when purchasing
Use Batho’s Baking Powder. ',
ti
At Mark Young s Pier Hotel, Frankston, neai
Melbourne, superior accommodation for visitors.
Fresh and salt-water baths in house, close to sea
bath's. Horses and buggies for hire.
Us * Batho’s Baking Powder.
Naffey Jones’ Annuity:
A SYDNEY BANKING STORY.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
Naffey Jones was an inveterate gambler. His
parents were strictly religious, and there was a
time when by close attention to his affairs, both
religious and secular, he had worked up a drapery
business worth some £lO,OOO. Naffey, however,
never really liked the church, but he certainly did
like cards and horse-racing, especially the latter,
with the result that in a few years he found him-
self in a very tight place and had to compromise
with his creditors. Now, though Naffey was a
gambler, he was passing honest and a good sales-
man, so that when his own business vanished he
was able to get a fair billet in a George-street shop.
There comes to every man, some day or other, a
consciousness of the sinfulness of his ways, and to
Naffey this feeling came in due course. He there-
fore gave up gambling with cards, but never felt
the call sufficiently strong to lead him to abandon
racing ; so whenever the opportunity offered he
carefully put on his socks inside out, for luck, and
betook himself to a suburban race-meeting. Thus,
one dreary Saturday, some two or three years
since, Naffey, with the savings of a month in his
pocket, found his way to Rosehill, having received
the straight tip from one of his Parramatta
friends that he could put his shirt on Esme for
the Hurdle Race.
Naffey Jones was a cash backer, in fact he had
no other option, as he was somewhat behind in his
payments to the gentlemen in the Paddock. For
this reason, and for motives of economy, he had
lately been in the habit of witnessing races from
the Leger reserve, where odds are generally longer
than in the more pretentious enclosure. Now, if
there was one thing more than another which Mr,
Jones liked, it was long odds. On the afternoon
here spoken of, the odds against Esme were in the
Paddock 5 to 1, while in the Leger there were
offers of a point larger.
Naffey liked to wait till ti.e last until some horse
was made a hot favourite before he put his money on
the outsider, for Esme was anything but a favourite.
Round our sportsman went to the various pen-
cilled, and softly enquired the price of the
favourites, casually mentioning Esme, as if not
particularly interested in that animal. Virtue is
its own reward, and Naffey’s virtue had satisfac-
tion in hearing a bookmaker shouting out 10 to 1,
Esme. Naffey had not hitherto made a wager
with this particular bookmaker, indeed he had
never, to his knowledge, seen him before. The
long odds were, however, a great temptation, and
as the man was very respectable in appearance,
Naffey made up his mind to take the odds and
risk five pounds. The bookmaker wore round his
hat a neat ribbon, with a scroll to the effect that
he was Harry Dali, late of Melbourne, registered
by the Jockey Clubs of etc., etc. Naffey was at all
times suspicious, and it occurred to him that for
Esme to win and for the stranger to pay, were very
different matters altogether. Accordingly he
determined to carefully watch events from a point
of vantage near the corner of the stand.
The afternoon was drizzling wet, a circumstance
which those in the “know” felt was good for
Esme’s chances. Just prior to the last bell an
enormous bank of inky clouds appeared, rolling
up from the south-east, threatening a heavy down-
pour. Presently the horses came out and straggled
round to the starting-post. Naffey Jones detested
rain, yet he bravely stood at the corner, with one
eye on the horses and the other onr Mr. Dali and
his clerk. After a while the light rain died away,
while occasional large drops from the heavy clouds
announced the deluge that impended. Faster and
faster fell the rain, driving the people off the
lawn into and under the stand. Naffey steadily
kept his ground as long as he dared, till the storm
burst across the course in all its fury, and then he
rushed for shelter. The flat running ground was
speedily a sheet of water, and in the corner of the
Leger Reserve, usually devoted to bookmakers,
the water stood in some places a couple of inches
deep. Not a soul remained to face the storm.
Bookmakers and their clients, men; women, chil-
dren and dogs were hustled together under the
poor shelter of the open stand. The storm lasted
not more than ten minutes, ceasing as suddenly as
it had begun, and the crowd streamed out again
to their former places.
The horses had not started when Naffey got free
from the crowd. His first impulse was to seek the
spot which Mr. Dali had occupied before the stam-
pede, but that gentleman was not to be found.
Meanwhile the signal for starting was given, and
a gallant race ensued , in spite of the slush through
which the animals galloped. Coming round the
second time, it was evident, bar accidents, that the
light-weight must win. Over the last jump they
came into the straight, Esme winning with a good
deal in hand from old Monte Carlo. Naffey did
not wait to see the end, he rushed round to the
back of the stand to chase any welsher who might
attempt to clear out. But no one made a move in
that direction, so Naffey was fain return and look
for his money. But there was no money for him.
and nothing was left for him to do but join some
three or four others and curse Dali and all his
tribe.
Mr. Dali and his mate were recent arrivals
from Western Australia ; their real names
were Peter Morgan and Moses Mallow; they
had completed their “time” and had come to
Sydney, the paradise of quacks, to start busi-
ness. Their chief trouble was want of capital.
Between them they had just sufficient money to
make themselves presentable, and they had gone
to Rosehill with the fixed idea of getting some of
the capital they lacked. They had wagered reck-
lessly on the Hurdle Race, as they well might do,
having no intention of paying, and had taken
about £BO in cash, standing to lose on the most
favourable contingency more than £lOO. The
storm was a delightful intervention of Providence
in their behalf, and before the rain had moderated
the pair were half-way to Parramatta. Having
reached that ancient town, they carefully re-
mained in ambush until after nightfall, when they
just as carefully took the road to Sydney, not
venturing to the railway station lest they might
stumble across some of their victims.
Messrs. Morgan and Mallow were very smart
fellows, they had studied the laws of the various
provinces of Australia and had resolved that for
men of their talents a bank was the best business
to follow, and Sydney was the place to start in.
Their great want, as we have said, was capital.
This they had now secured, for they rightly
judged that £BO was ample for their purpose. Their
first move was to hire premises in a leading
thoroughfare, arranging to pay by the quarter, so
that they might have no heavy expenses until de-
posits rolled in. Without difficulty they obtained
a suite of offices, with a fine counter and large
windows; next they ordered a brass plate and
lettering for the windows, on which was displayed
in bold type—“ The Marsupial Mutual Banking
and Advance Company of Sydney ; Peter W.
Salmon, Managing Director, Alfred P. J. Moon,
Secretary.” The firm very wisely determined to
keep their Christian names lest, in a moment of
familiarity, they might betray themselves, but for
obvious reasons they altered their surnames.
A neatly-displayed card informed borrowers
that money was lent on approved security, and
intending investors were offered tempting rates
for fixed deposits. Money was not taken at call.
The firm had no settled ideas how matters would
end; one thing, however, was very clear, if it
would pay them to bolt —away they would go ; if,
on the contrary, it paid them to stay—stay they
would. They received plenty of deposits for fixed
terms, being especially patronised by the horny-
handed sons of toil and serving-women, to whom
their suave manners were intensely pleasing.
They always managed to meet deposits when due
and generally contrived to arrange for a re-deposit
of monies lodged with them. Things had been
going on very well for about two years, and the
bank had come to the conclusion that if they could
manage to sail on for another two years, it might
perhaps pay after all to stop in Sydney. If trouble
threatened they could call in their outstandings
and the deposits were always available to carry
them to fresh fields and pastures new.
Naffey Jones had never become reconciled to
the loss of his money. Nor did he ever again get
so near winning so large a stake. So bad indeed
was his luck that he had serious intentions of giv-
ing up the turf altogether. Before doing this, as
a final try he had got together a few pounds, and
taking care to don an olcf greasy suit in which he
once had some luck, he left the shop just before
six and started for Tattersall’s, to speculate in
some tickets in one of the so-called consultations.
<704
Th& r -
IL tSW
|®l|o
i^or n* upe iLip a -1T o J'^
i>* M e j /
il^^j' 0v^r ‘7^
~ffje ty'f'l 's
As he was listlessly strolling along, anathematising
what he was pleased to call his filthy luck, he
espied two stylish gentlemen leaving the Marsupial
Bank, carefully locking the door after them. Naffy
knew them in a moment, Harry Dali the welsher
and his mate. Now was the moment he had
longed for. In his dreams he had gloried in
punching their heads and here was his opportunity.
When wide - awake, however, he was not so
pugnacious—the game was not worth the candle.
He knew something better than mere fighting, so
passing the pair a few strides, he turned back and
followed them all the Avay to their home at Moore
Park. Here he had little difficulty in finding out
that the gentlemen were Messrs. Salmon and Moon
of the Marsupial Bank, and his heart rejoiced
exceedingly.
Naffey’s dreams that night were all of bright
gold and galloping horses, and early next morning
he stationed himself outside the bank and waited
until the manager and secretary arrived. , Giving
them decent time to get their coats off Naffey
presented himself at the counter and enquired if
Mr. Salmon were disengaged, as he wished to see
him about a deposit. There was nothing which
moved Mr. Salmon so readily to see visitors as
the expression of a desire to make a deposit. Ac-
cordingly Naffey Jones found himself almost im-
mediately in the presence of the managing-
director.
Mr. Peter W. Salmon’s office was well, if plainly,
furnished, it had every appearance of a board-
room, and the manager was seemingly quite in his
proper place at the head of the table. He had
not the remotest suspicion of his visitor’s identity,
indeed the recollection of the Rosehill affair was
fast fading from his mind. It would have been
strange if things had been otherwise, for the affair
was of very small turpitude, compared with other
events in Mr, Salmon’s career. Now that Naffey
was in the presence of the person who had robbed
him, he was at a loss how to proceed, but he soon
recovered himself, and reminded the director of
their previous acquaintance at Rosehill, and how
acceptable the original stake and the money won
would now be to him.
Mr. Salmon was thunderstruck at the demand
nevertheless he did not lose his head. A less
acute rogue would have indignantly scorned the
accusation, “hurled it back in the teeth of the
accuser,” and thus have precipitated a scene. Not
so Mr. Salmon. He knew very well that his
thick-set, square-jawed visitor had come to stay
until his claims were settled, or, failing this, to
kick up a row, and nothing could be worse than a
row under such circumstances. During the pause
which followed Naffey’s demand the managing
director nervously fingered the heavy leaden
weight at his elbow. The idea rapidly passed
through his mind, that a well-aimed blow with the
weight would settle the present inconvenient
claim and the others, which would certainly
follow. But his visitor might not be alone, and
even if he were alone the object of his visit might
be known to others. In justice to Mr. Salmon it
may be stated that Naffey Jones would, barring
accidents, have been murdered where he sat, had
the director reasonable grounds for supposing no
one was cognisant of his visit or its purpose.
Under all circumstances Mr. Salmon saw no-
thing else for him to do but pay the money and
make an explanation. So he related how, being
driven in by the storm, he had taken refuge in the
Stand, and had there been struck down with a
stroke of epilepsy, and, of course, could not take
his place again in the betting-ring. How he had
advertised in the daily papers for the addresses of
his clients and paid everybody but Naffey, whose
£55, on his failure to turn up, had been anony-
mously given to the Benevolent Asylum in instal-
ments. Now, Naffey was a bit of a liar himself,
and, of course, did not believe a word of Mr.
Salmon’s story, but he rather admired it all the
same.
The receipt of themoney put Naffey in great good
humour, so that, on taking his departure, he went
so far as to shake hands with the director, and
even felt inclined to place his money at fixed
deposit in the bank, but he refrained from this
last extravagance. So, congratulating himself on
the lucky expedient of wearing his old suit Naffey
proceeded to business. The boss was not in good
form when Naffey walked in, and, as it was nearly
half-past ten, he rather sharply reminded him
that he should have been at work two hours be-
fore, But Naffey with fifty-five sovereigns in
his pocket, was disposed to take impertinence
from no one, so he replied just as hotly and a few
words further on either side brought about the
close -of Mr. Jones’ connection with the establish-
ment.
This was the most stirring day Naffey had exr
perienced for some time. If he had not lost his
situation it is quite probable he would have re-
mained contented with his haul from Salmon ; as
it was lie began |xk feel very much aggrieved,
especially at Kavipg Jpjt*the use of his money for
more than two to rest that night,
his last resolve was to visit the bank again and
demand compensation for the two years’ interest.'
Accordingly, the morning found him at the bank,
once more inquiring for Mr. Salmon. On this
occasion he was informed that the director was en-
gaged, but after a brief consultation in the inner
room, between Mr. Moon and his chief, Naffey
was allowed to see the latter. The visit was by no
means unexpected. Peter Salmon knew what he
would do, if in Naffey’s shoes, and, therefore, ex-
pected that worthy would make a second black-
mailing call at an early opportunity, and when the
demand for two years’ interest was made, Salmon,
without much show of reluctance, paid over five
pounds ten shillings, and Naffey departed.
Having now nothing to do, Naffey strolled up
to the Park and seating himself under the shade
of a tree mentally discussed the situation. -The
result of Naffey’s cogitations were apparently satis-
factory, for on his return home he wrote a letter
to the bank, which promptly brought an answer,
desiring Natfey to call on the following day after
office-hours. The letter contained a threat of ex-
posure, and a complaint of the inefficient protec-
tion afforded by the State against sharks and
swindlers ; the answer showed that Naffey had
won, so the only question now in his mind, was—
How much ?
At their interview the director took high ground.
He was greatly indignant at the barefaced
attempt to levy blackmail, and was determined on
principle to resist to the last, cost what it might.
Natfey also took up a strong position, entirely in
the interest of the helpless depositors, who were
for the roost part persons in humble life attracted
by a high rate of interest. The, bank might be
very honest; if so their affairs would bear investi-
gation ; he wanted little from them but the proof
of their honesty. After much shouting and lying
a compromise was come to. At a convenient op-
portunity the affair at Rosehill should be investi-
gated by Tattersall’s Club; meanwhile the bank,
as an evidence of good faith, would pay Naffey a
sum of three pounds a week, which should be
refunded when the affairs of the managing director
and secretary were satisfactorily cleared up. And,
to show their mutual trust, the agreement was to
be confidential and not to be in writing.
Some months have elapsed since the agreement
just related was entered into. The case of welsh-
ing has not yet been investigated and Naffey still
draws his annuity and does no work. For his
part he is quite satisfied not to kill the goose that
lays the golden eggs. Messrs. Salmon and Moon
are not so well satisfied, though for the pre-
sent they feel they are safe —and they mean to
keep safe. Their experience of human nature does
not warrant their placing much dependence on
Naffey Jones’ forbearance ; they foresee that with
such a man, it is only a question of time when he
will demand another fifty pounds or an increased
annuity. Who knows but that he may not get
drunk and destroy them ? However, they are •
sharp people, and those who take interest in them,
in their bank or in the depositors may on this
rely : that whoever ultimately goes to the wall, it
will not be either the Managing-Director or Mr.
Moon.
HENRY SIEBEL.
The assets of the Melbourne Trades’ Hall
Council are £40,456 over liabilities.
In order to appreciate being kissed a girl
should be old enough to know better. Ex.
Leonide Apostoloff claims to have dis-
covered a marine force, in which the spiral prin-
ciple and electricity are the main factors, enabling
him to construct a steamer travelling 100 knots
hourly.
A Grenfell (N.S.W.) funeral procession
arrested its mournful progress in order to extinguish
a burning wheatfield. This anti-conflagration
demonstration was probably comforting to the
deceased.
Two prisoners at Pentridge (Vic.) have
died through eating a great quantity of beans
which they were engaged in harvesting. The
medical man says that death ensued in conse-
quence of the unaccustomed diet, but we know
the prisoners are often given beans in Pentridge.
The editor of the Wellington (N.Z. ) Times
says eloquently: “Australia’s spouse, Nationality,
has called upon her, and she must leave father and
mother and cleave to him. ” Then he appears to
have gone out to see a man, for he as emphatically
adds : “ Australia should adopt for her motto th
broken square-faced gin-bottle. ”
A piratical Melbourne paper cribs among
a hundred other stolen items a piece of verse en-
titled “That Fan” from an American paper and
affixes to it as a pen-name “The Carlton Corpse.”
Now The Bulletin has been scissored all over
the world, but as yet to our knowledge no one
has been mean enough to tack his name on to
the verses stolen from us.
Writes Ambrose Bierce in the S.F.
Examinee :
A correspondent of the Baltimore Sux gravely avows
his indebtedness to Dr. Brown-Sequard’s elixir and affirms
his hope of living as long as he wishes to. He is a trifle,
hasty: “the law” (of. nature) “hath yet another hold ”
on him. The great Kau Pao, who wrote 1600 years ago
(and is therefore good authority and was probably in-
spired), says, in the Seit Shin Ki, that even a man who
has discovered and taken the elixir of life runs the risk of
lightning.after 500 years. And what is there in lamb-juice
to save a man from hanging ?
We once heard the loyalty of the colonies to
England discussed in a London club, when a globe-
trotter remarked : “ Loyalty ! Yes, you can judge
of it by my experience. When in Sydney I had
occasion to call at the Crown Law office, and each
time I heard a fiddler playing ‘ The Wearing of
the Green moreover, once 1 saw the Crown
Solicitor giving the musician a shilling.” The fact
was the Crown Solicitor gave him a shilling to go
away while a gentleman connected with the
Criminal Department paid him half-a-crown a week
to play this tune daily under the Crown Solicitor’s
window and enjoy its effect on the loyal “ Crown.’’
Miss Nellie Bly, the lady journalist who
proposes to put a girdle round the earth inside
eighty days without male companionship, is a
daisy. Two years ago, says a London writer, she
feigned insanity, and succeeded in being committed
to an asylum. In order to render her journalistic
experiences sensational she hinted that the doctors
insulted her. The charge was proved to be mis-
taken, but the article had served its purpose.
Since this Miss Bly has followed her favourite
newspaper work. On one occasion she went to
Central Park and made eyes at the passing men,
until one responded to her advances. He made
her acquaintance, suggested a drive, which was
accepted, proposed a visit to a questionable resort,
which was accepted, offered refreshments in a
private apartment, which were accepted, and then
made proposals to her which she asserts she
rejected with scorn. She had secured material
for a good sensational article, and she used it to
her pecuniary profit. Her next exploit was to
advertise for the position of “ amanuensis.” The
language of her advertisement was equivocal; so
were the replies. From the mass of letter! received
she selected those most useful for her purpose,
and called on the writers. By her actions and
remarks she succeeded in bringing the conversation
into the desired channel, and thus secured several
more dramatic opportunities for rejecting proposals
which never would have been made to a woman
whose actions did not invite them. Afterwards
she published an account of her experience, with
the names and addresses of her victims. .


of)
8
SZ-9
ONI
m
\S*la Qq-eA^J"
Stem
■PORT\
r°
IURORA, IND.S
'm il
/HEELER &C?is^ttaq-
ř
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
r
Watch Manufacture's & Jeweller,
813 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
(Nearly opposite Railway Station).
For Watches and Jewellery, send for my Price List
(Illustrated). Post Free.
The Unrivalled Keyless Watch.
Guaranteed. Post Free.
209.
Gent.’s English Levers (full cap) from £3 10s.
Ladies’ Beautiful Silver Watches from £1 103.
Gold Watches arid Jewellery of every description.
Country Residents and Visitors to Sydney call or send
to A. SAUNDERS, 813 George Street (nearly opposite
Railway Station), SYDNEY.
sofiena frjyutmvca Kcatilcx
Ci\Ac*> S ovea ai9
Scwc* ovac^a.
ŕ
&l-6<? Wit
SeM lulkicavi/fc
>fo-v I'icyi’i t: jctcc%&o_
~y¥fl&(cvxxtc cts
7. B. WHEELEB & CO.,
V 65 Clnreiu'C Sfroei.
Personal Items.
Beck and Call—Phil, and the Grim De-
stroyer.
Tom Garrett says he will die the richest
man in Australia.
There are 316 M ‘Donalds in the 79th
Cameron Highlanders, and nob a single Cameron,
Emperor William’s hat measures 6^—-just
the same size as Mr. Alfred Allen’s, the poet of
Paddington.
Vanity Fair calls Tummy’s eldest boy
“ Prince Edie.” They must mean Prince
“ Iddy.”—Ex.
“Jeff” Davis vacated this world with a
courteous —“Pray excuse me,” to those who stood
round his dying bed.
There are 10 lawyers in the N.S.W.
Legislative Assembly, and, curiously enough, a
similar number in the Council.
Another Australian claimant has been de-
feated, the Earldom of Caithness having been
awarded to an Aberdeen banker.
Jubilee Juggins Benzon only wrote two
words of the book published under his name —the
words “ Ernest Benzon ” under his portrait.
Mr. Bray, of Adelaide, lias been made a
K.O.M.G. Yet one would have thought the
name Bray was in itself sufficiently definite.
Sir John Thurston, K.0.M.G,, Governor
of Fiji, was originally second mate of a missionary
schooner, and first landed in Fiji as a “beach-
comber. ”
The “ morganatic ” Duchess of Cambridge,
whose death is cabled, was originally Miss Fare-
brother, a handsome-columbine—-the Letty Lind
of her day.
Field-Marshal Lord Napier of Magdala has
died of influenza. He was a fine soldierly-looking-
old gentleman, who never in all his life slew any-
body but niggers.
Gilbert Murray, the young Australian-born
professor, who married into the old nobility, is
nephew-in-law, or something similar, to the
Marquis of Hartington,
Sergeant Beatty, who was stabbed to death
at Penrith' recently, was an active man at Lambing
Flat in its palmy days, and took a hand in many
a scrimmage at Tipperary Gully,
Captain Money Fisher, P.M., was to have
had the- Comptroller Generalship of N.S.W,
Prisons but for his alleged error with respect to
the case of the bank-embezzler Thomas.
It is interesting t 6 read that Mr. Daniel
Cooper, the great Sydney absentee ground-rent
man, pays £4509 a year to Lord Wimborne for the
shooting of a deer-forest in Eoss-shire.
Lord Hartington has been queer. Fifty-
six years old, he has remained heir to the Duke-
dom of Devonshire, his father being now 82. The
rent-roll is put down at £120,000 a year.
Stipendiary Abbott, of Sydney, has been
found guilty of wit. A woman claiming support for
a child unborn was told by him that she must not
count her chicks before they were hatched.
It is cabled that Sir Charles Dilke con-
siders Sir Henry Parkes “a prodigy.” Dilke
himself, by the way, is also considered a prodigy
—of what sort it would be wasting space to say.
Gov. Hopetoun has been examining the
Star of the East mine, Ballarat. Ere leaving he
is reported to have said : “ I feel so much at home
that I could hang my coat up behind the door.”
Old Pat Hayes, a Parramatta civic official
who died last week, aged 80, was said to be the
last living witness of the accident which killed
Lady Mary Eitzroy and Capt. Masters, A.D.C.,
at the Government House gates in 1847.
The unco’ guid of Auckland (N.Z.) are
horrified because their new Mayor (bookseller
Upton) has publicly stated that he considers the
best way to pass Sunday is on a sofa with a good
novel. What is religion ? Why, trade.
Crombie Browne, who, years ago, was
sub-editor ot the Age, and once wrung an abject
apology from the Argus for having said he had
skedaddled, is onee more to be seen in the high-
ways of Melbourne, grey, no doubt, but as
“ haw, haw ” as in the days of yore.
H. M. Stanley writes : —“ Travelling in a
south-easterly direction, the caravan entered the
territory of the King cf Unyoro, who unsuccess-
fully disputed their passage.” There’s a whole
volume in this. It reads like a “ dispersal ” re-
port by a N.Q. inspector of nigger police !
Bismarck recently showed the Prussian
Grenadier Guards to a Dutchman of high degree.
“Fine soldiers,” said the Dutchman, “but not
tall enough.” “What do you mean?” asked
Bismarck. “ I mean,” replied the Dutchman,
“ that we could flood our country 12ft. deep.”
Mr. Garland, M.P., has brought with him
to Australia a phonogram or vocal message from
Sir Saul Samuel to Premier Parkes. This is to
be reeled off in the presence of a distinguished
company as soon as Mr. Garlard receives Ins
phonographs, which were seized in Italy as in-
fernal machines.
Australia’s most steadily brilliant bat,
Percy Macdonnell (now a Benedict), appears re-
solved to finally retire from active cricketing.
He is now in charge of a Sydney suburban branch
of the A. J.S. Bank, and says he does not intend
to allow sport to interfere with his chances of
official promotion.
The first four Presidents of the N.S.W.
Legislative Council were lawyers. Only two out
of seven Speakers of the Assembly belonged to
that profession. The Victorian Council never
had a lawyer for President, and out of five
Speakers, only one (the present) has belonged to
the legal profession.
Now that G. B. Kerferd is dead, George
Higinbotham is the only judge on the Victorian
Supreme Court Bench who has been in politics,
while out of seven on the N.S.W. Bench five have
been participators in many a political scrimmage.
The Victorian chief had been long outside politi-
cal strife when he accepted a judgeship.
Edward Butler, Q.C., of “ Braza ” fame,
was once examining an unwilling witness in
Sydney Supreme Court. “ You’ve been drinking,
man,” said the Q.C. “So have you,” replied the
witness. “Why, you impudent fellow, what do
you mean?” “Mean? Why, you drank tea for
breakfast, didn’t you?” “No, you blackguard,”
said Butler, “ I drank coffee.”
The late King of Portugal’s medical atten-
dants sent in bills as stiff as was their royal
patient when they had finished with him. The
most moderate of the three Court leeches charged
at the rate of £lB2 a visit, while the most expen-
sive of them went as high as £278. Their accounts
have been promptly settled by the new King, who
probably thinks that he got his throne cheap.
Sir John Pope Hennessy (who governed
Hongkong for years) says that Australia is quite
justified in keeping cut the Chinese. When
Hennessy was suggested as a Governor for one of
the Australias an uproar, equalled only by that
aroused by the Blake nomination, was raised, the
reason assigned being that Hennessy’s household
would consist of Chinese, and that he would heap
favours on the race.
When Bruce Smith beat Pinkstone for the
representation of Gnndagai in the N.S.W.
Assembly, he, as in duty bound, proceeded to the
local public school to pat the boys on the head and
chuck the very little girls under the chin. Par-
ticularly fascinated by one rosy little woman, he
blandly enquired her name. “Please, sir, it’s
Cissy Pinkstone, and you’re the man that beat my
pa for Parliament, ain’t you ? ”
Mr. Alex. MTvinley, of Melbourne Punch,
has, on his return from Europe, been interviewed
and has said that “the two great wants of Mel!
MW
JP/
uilh?
A
A philanthropic fox yearning
for a wider field of usefulness,
came to Australia with a patent
process for exterminating rabbits
and other vermin.
Judge of his suprise on arriving,
to be informed that he himself
was constructive vermin in the
eyes of the law, and could only be
allowed to land on condition of
giving up philanthropy and going
in as a living curiosity for little
boys to stare at.
DOUBLE BARRELED MORAL:
KNOW THYSELF;
ALSO
FUTURE REPUBLICS ARE
UNGRATEFUL.
bourne are the absence of boulevards and the
luxury of cool beverages.” Mr. M‘Kinlay is
further understood to complain that “the iced
water of Melbourne is tepid and unpalatable.”
From all of which we conclude that Mr. M‘Kinlay
has chiefly been travelling in Quid Oireland.
The will of the recently-deceased David
Berry, of Shoalhaven (N.S.W.), is, we are told, to
be contested. Mr. Berry was over 100 years of
age when he died, and he left about three millions
in money and property, which principally goes to
Mr. Hay, who, m fact, has only to pay £‘500,000
in legacies out of the colossal estate. The caveators
seek to upset the testator's last will and to estab-
lish the validity of a testamentary disposition
made by him about four years ago.
The gigantic Melbourne attorney, M‘Kean,
had lately an encounter with Shnter, P.M., who
“ adjourned ” the Court - the sovereign remedy of
beaks whenever a difficulty arises. About a
quarter of a century ago old Johnny Fawkner,
founder of Melbourne, used to rise from the Col-
lingwood Bench and take his hot bricks away
with him whenever M‘Kean appeared in a ease.
There was some old business for which he wanted
Mac. to apologise, and the giant refused. Johnny
was chairman of the Collingwood Bench for years,
and while presiding used to wear a skull-cap on
his head and a hot brick under each foot.
Parkes’ “distinguished ” epistolary victim
this week is Sir Lyon Playfair. Playfair has
written the old man a letter on the Yankee tariff
question, and Parkes trots it out in the papers, as
usual. Playfair began to make his mark at an
early age. When a young man he was commis-
sioned by Sir Robert Peel to prepare a govern-
ment report. So ably was the task accomplished
that the Premier said ; “ I must recognise this.
I’ll advance you in any way I can.” Drawing up
to his desk he committed his promise to paper.
Mr. Playfair’s reply was characteristic: “Sir
Robert, your word is enough. ” As he spoke he
tore The noteinto fragments. Which reminds us
that this is exactly what every N.S.W* Civil ser- .
vant does with respect to Parkes’ promises under
similar circumstances. Queer coincidence, isn’t it ?
A Search for the Shelterless.
The Sydney correspondent of Melbourne
Standard having stated that about 2000 outcasts
slept nightly in the public parks and open spaces
of Sydney, the statement was much ridiculed by
the local press and finally flatly contradicted by
the Sydney Morning Herald’s “ Spectre ” in an
article headed “ A Phantom Army,” wherein the
writer declared that on a dry, bright, moonlight
night he, aided by an intelligent policeman, had
been able to discover only fourteen sleepers in the
Domain, the favourite haunt of the homeless.
Believing that the latter was even more ridiculous
as an under-statement than was the former as an
exaggeration, the writer made a thorough search
for the shelterless in some of their most affected
open-air dormitories on Sunday night last.
# # #
Accompanied by a brother scribe, after
braving the typhoid that lurks in the miasmatic
odours of Lower George-street to secure the
guidance of the present spokesman of the unem-
ployed, we started operations at 10.30 p.m. at the
Wcolshedon Circular Quay. There, around the base,
on the out jutting buttresses of two huge mounds
of Australia’s staple product, wedged in crevices
and prone on the table-land summits that towered
up among the iron-girders, we counted one hundred
and three persons outstretched on the bales, none
of whom owned blankets c r any substitute for
them, and were informed by one of these unre-
munerated wool-pressers that before'inidnight at
least fifty per cent, would be added to the number.
Seeing some men stretched out in these sheds on
hard pieces of timber and inquiring their reasons
for such voluntary martyrdom when a softer
couch was available, we were informed that these
w'ere bushmen who believed the exhalations from
the wool-yolk to be noxious.
# # #
Moving onward we next explored the
neighbourhood of Fort Macquarie, and here
espied nine more unfor unates stretched out in
two and threes on the bare ground. Retracing
our steps we again visited the wool shed, and
standing a few minutes saw each add a unit to
the number who sought open-air repose in the land
of the golden fleece, while bemoaning the fact
that the sheep’s back is no longer broad enough
for national support.
* * *-
We now made for the Domain, and here,
on a dark, damp night, we counted one by one,
with the utmosUexactitude, 224 unhouseled souls,
and saw moremen under one tree tV an the “Spectre ”
did in all its wide expanse. Against the Hospital
wall, around the iron shell of the Dispensary and
Museum, and under the trees adjoining, were 79
men, those under the trees lying like the spokes of
a wheel with their heads towards the butts. Many
snored loudly, a few were smoking and chatting
in whispers, about a fourth were rolled up in
blankets, and, perhaps, twice as many were
sparsely covered by old sacks, pieces of
canvas and newspapers ; the remainder, as
a rule, lay on the wet ground with their
boots beneath their heads, and their feet
enveloped in rags or highly-coloured handker-
chiefs. The ground sloping down from the main
walk towards Woolloomooloo Bay was then
thoroughly explored, and here were discovered
on benches, beneath trees and ledges of rocks, 65
slumberers, including three women, whose ages
the wooden-headedness of the N.S.W. Penal Code
and its administrators prevented us from enquir-
ing. By this time we were thoroughly convinced
that a more unsuitable night for such an explora-
tion could scarcely have been chosen. There was
no moon, and the faint gleam of the starry
heavens was occasionally veiled by vagrant clouds.
No lamps were now near, and, except where a
stray light was thrown from a vessel unloading at
VVoolloomooloo Wharf, it was necessary on mov-
ing up to where dusky forms lay dimly outlined
under the dark shades of the trees or where
pieces of paper and canvas glimmered faintly
white for one to strike matches while the others
counted, the match-striker being, as a rale, for
a time too dazzled by the flare to see anything.
To add to the universal eerieness, every time a
match was struck, a clumsy scramble took place
in the branches overhead, figs rattled about our
ears, _ and with a horrid croak and an uncouth
flapping a hideous flying-fox launched himself
on the midnight air in quest of thorough
seclusion coupled with gratuitous fruit. Now
we called a halt, wrung the moisture from
our trouser-hems, in defiance of Fashion turned
them up still higher, and lighting fresh cigars
made for “ the Chair.” Here the darkness was so
intense as to seem visible, and once more we
damned the impetuosity that would not: wait until
Monday when bull’s : eye lanterns would have
been available, but must sally forth qm Sunday
after a long day’s boating armed only with a
pocket pistol and several boxes of majtche’ l . On
this narrow point of land, which is surrounded by
water on both sides, lulled to sleep by the gentle
and regular lapping of the waves, we were able to
unearth, in many cases literally, 53 of those who
had not where to lay their weary heads, but the
search here was superficial, and more than pro-
bably an equal number was passed over, for in
many places the footing was so insecure, the
nooks and caverns so impenetrably dark, that a
broken limb was likely to be the lot of the unwary
and adventurous stranger. Here, too, the wind
had more power, and it was difficult to strike a
match and even more difficult to obtain a steady
light from it when kindled. Turning citywards
we now halted for mingled refreshments at the
great fountain and then proceeding, were enabled
by the aid of several feeble gas-lamps and some
stentorian snores to detect twenty-seven additional
members of the “phantom army ” in the vicinity
of the main walk and the avenue leading to Mac-
quarie-street,
# * #
Now accepting the hypothesis of the pur-
blind “Spectre’s” friendly policeman that—“ If
there were only 14 in the Domain there could not
be more than 30 altogether in the other parks of
the city,” and calculating that as 14 is to 30 so is
224 to 480, and that on Sunday night and Monday
morning there were therefore at least 700 house-
less and friendless outcasts sleeping in Sydney's
open spaces, for lack of better accommodation, we
might now have very fairly concluded that our
mission w 7 as ended, but decided to “do” Hyde
Bark ere caving in, debating on the way as to
whether the Herald man was a conscious, or
unconscious gull, and deciding that in either
he was blameworthy.
# * *
Hyde Park being fairly well-lit we easily
detected 47 persons, of which five were women,
in every case without blankets or similar
coverings, sitting or lying on the seats that
line the various avenues. It was now nearly
three o'clock, and, nothing loth, we homeward
bent our weary steps, having counted without exag-
geration, 383 open-air sleepers-out, without evoking
an oath, indecent expression, or ill-tempered word
from the many whom we disturbed, and believ-
ing that on a more favourable night that ex-
tended inspection of the wharves: with their
timber-stacks and other shelter, the vessels along-
side, including cargo-boats, ferry and pleasure
steamers, tramway-waiting-rooms, tram-cars, the
Figtree Baths, the University Paddock, Flagstaff
Hill, Church-hill Reserve, Pyrmont Quarries,
Prince Alfred, Belmore, Cook, Centennial, and
other parks would certainly double the number.
So much for Granny once more.
A Coonamble solicitor tells a story of a
“civilised” Chinaman who, sent up for larceny,
wanted to engage him for the Quarter Sessions.
The Chow had money, and the attorney named
25 guineas as his fee. “ Glood Glod ! Why, Bill
Dailey come for two glinnies,” said John—but he
parted the twenty-five and got off.
The Czar is hypochondriacal and terribly
shaky in the nerves. The Czarina i. 4 even worse,
and is subject to attacks of intense nervous pros-
tration. The Emperor of Austria is -a healthy,
but a heart-broken man ; and the empress, a
martyr to sciatica, rheumatic fever, and melan-
cholia, belongs to the Wittelsbach family, which
produced other samples of royal misery in the
demented Kings of Bavaria. The, king of Wur-
temberg is said—by North Germans, at any rate—
to be more than half crazy ; King Milan of Servia
is haunted day and night by the dread of assassin-
ation : and lastly, the Sultan cannot enjoy a
moment’s peace because he expects to meet the
fate of his predecessor. Three more miserable
men, they say, cannot be found in all Europe than
the Czar, the Sultan, and King Milan. The
German emperor’s physical defects are well known.
The King of Holland is paying the penalty of
violent liberties taken with a naturally strong
constitution, and has now sunk into the dotage of
an irritable invalid. The King of Italy suffers
from chronic gastric derangement, brought on by
excessive smoking of green cigars. The infant
King of Spain has no constitution at all, for his
father ruined his by excesses, and was only kept
alive latterly by opiates and champagne. The
King of the Belgians is lame. The Queen of Ron-
mama is haunted by hallucinations which sym-
pathetically affect Ring Charles. Of all the
sovereigns in Europe, only Queen Victoria and
the Kings of Denmark, Sweden, and Greece seem
to be blessed with moderately sound minds in
sound bodies. The late King of Portugal had
been a most unhealthy and unhappy man for
nearly thirty years, as he had never had a month’s
respite from illness of one sort or another since
18G0,


=3=ZZIZ ■ ■ ' _ ~=^ l V- i- ' - life f= -_: ■
ŗ
ř
r
ŕ
ř
“JO."
ABBOTT : “MY WORD, BUT IT WARMS ME TO THINK OF ALL THE GOOD OFFERS I’VE HAD.”


A DOCKERS’ STRIKE. N
PA’KMENT FOR MEAL’ TIMES
DEMANDED.
Lostdon,' Saturday Eight.—Further strikes
are occurring among the London dock la-
borers. 'Jlhey are now striking for payment
during m eal times.^
Z a a//>ocfc a/A oos '/yeah / faeci t
'/corr/ Vvu c/oy/' /yeay /d /e// rye
a /face/- you fe//oa)S /ycc/e eyouyt
W* tuf /rJuyyfAL/ !'!jJ
SHOTS FROM H.M.S. ROYALIST.
On the cruise of the schooner Edith May
through the Solomon Group some spent shots
from heavy ordnance were found to be in the
possession of. the natives. Inquiries were .made
as to how the natives became possessed of
them and it was ascertained that they were
shots fired from the guns of E.M.S. Royalist
whilst engaged avenging the murder *
Earopcan trader at the island. 1 ( I
la awarding , Matthew Mark Davis a
further term of six months’ imprison-
ment Mr. Abbott is reported to have
said :—“ The prisoner had during the
last 11 months been sentenced to four
years’ imprisonment on similar charges
to those now preferred against him, and
yet here he was at large before one
quarter of his sentence had expired.
It
would be interesting to know what
influence had been brought to bear to
set such a scoundrel loose upon
society."
r A,IATTHfU HARKVAV/S
your fay or /Ts //fa tf /S ; |
v you fee I c&ft
'To ooje tfo taojyer
/f/bouqds/it-
.fit*..
Tfat*
cohere
It
')
0/
OA/
Zl Cnmi *HF
c *: k P- CMI 1
" Ao feat!
your place a<
' Wf ij Jf
door- "
0 Y/todonfc
/h Po/tf'/ca.l Ton-ALL-ALot^k $
London, \ Night.—The Portu-
guese Government and the Portuguese mor-
dants are demonstrating their animosity to
Dngland dismissing the English em-
ployes in their service.
Intense feeling V has oeen aroused in-
Lisbon and Englishmen are constantly
meeting witn insults from the Portuguese.
j:j}ULL V hSoU'lctyf'
r (To far -S'onpy, //e
fajfjSjTe* //caS/of^yy
atj'/ fe's f<rff h
J>p,*
THINGS IN GENERAL.


The
Marvellous
18s. 6d.
OPTIMUS
WATCHES,
The Best, Cheapest and Most Accurate Timekeepers
ever produced.
Made especially to our order by one of the leading and
most celebrated manufacturers of Watches in Switzerland,
and experience has shown that no watch is better than a
well-made Swiss one.
Gilt movements, jewelled in six holes, keyless (10 turns
to wind), enamel dials, crystal faces, well made, splendidly
finished, nickel cases that will wear excellently; in fact,
real good-looking, handsome little watches, and magnifi-
cent timekeepers.
Twelve months’ guarantee forwarded with every one.
Send P. 0.0. for 19s. 6d. (Is. postage), and have one
forwarded by post. If not in every way satisfactory after
a week money willingly refunded.
Only to be obtained from
FROST <Sc SHIPHAM,
Spectacle Makers, Opticians & Electricians,
474 Sc 587 George Street, Sydney.
Foreign & colonial exchange bank
OF AUSTRALASIA, Limited.
Sydney —B6 King Street.
Melbourne— 369 Collins Street.
London Bankers —Australian Joint Stock Bank,
No. 2 King William Street, London, E.C.
Authorised Capital, £500,000.
T. S. RICHARDSON, Esq., Managing Director,
This Bank undertakes the Exchange of Money,
both International and Intercolonial, includ
ing the Coinage of all Foreign Nations, in
addition to all usual and customary banking busi-
ness.
Deposits Received.
3 years
12 months ...
6 months
3 months ...
Communications
Managing Director.
... 8.1 per cent.
. ... 8 per cent.
. ... 7 percent.
. • ... 6 per cent,
be addressed to “
The
W. H. PALOG & COMPANY, LIMITED,
356 George Street, SYDNEY,
HAtTE Just Opened a Magnificent Lot of 3XT©w Pianos from the celebrated Makers, Steinway, Erard, Uebel, Fenrich, Lipp, Eonisch, Bluthner, Collat’d and oth-r
Also of the wonderful Victor Pianos at £45 and Estey Organs, No such Variety or Value elsewhere for Cash or Terms.
Society
Owing to having to take up Governor
Oarington’s official duties, Sir Alfred Stephen has
uad again to suspend work on his autobiography.
For four or five years past this work has consti-
tuted his chief employment. Sir Alfred, in addi-
ci >n to possessing a good memory, retains de-
tailed notes of almost all the remarkable incidents
and performances of his life. His notes taken on
the bench of the Supreme Court are in them-
selves a vivid hist >ry of the criminal life of
N.S.W. in past days, and mire than one
litterateur, with a view to working up those
old days anew, has applied for a perusal o'
them. The newspapers of the day, although
occasionally prolix in their accounts of im
portant criminal cases, often blindly ignorec
evidence of essential value, as anyone who goe
fully into the matter will discover to his chagrin
and in these respects especially Sir Alfred’s worl
will be of priceless value. The book will be very
large, going into several volumes, and having as
appendices liberal extracts from his notes on
the bench. His daughters take turn-about a.
amanuenses, and are otherwise fully occupied ii
extracting, re-writing, and indexing information
for the work.
* * *
The Victorian Reporters’ Association is
likely to be a terror to those newspaper owners
who work their men eighteen hours a day on
miserab'e screws and make them write up trades-
unions and the eight hours’ business. The V.R.A
is extending itself over the colonies. Tasmania
has applied to be affiliated. This organisation
will put a stop to free trade in oressmen. And so
say all of us.
# * #
The grievances of reporters are by no
means merely fancied ones. The present writer
worked for a Melbourne daily paper, and a very
pious Melbourne paper, too, owned by very rich
men, for 30s. a week. His hours were from about
half-past nine or ten o’clock a.m. until anywhere
between eleven p.m. and two or three o’clock in
the morning; and for the weekly sum named he
reported police courts, wrote theatrical criticisms
(Heaven save the mark!) interviewed Minis-
ters, reported budget-speeches, wrote up fancy-
dress balls and hangings, and in general per-
formed duties for which the Argus men, beside
whom he worked, received at least four or five
times as much. In addition to all of which Vie
was growled at and lectured as if he were a thief
whenever he sent in a miserable bill for expenses
incurred while officially travelling np-country in
the company of men who looked askance at his
shabby clothes. Owing to newspaper compe-
tition things have considerably improved since
those days, but they will have to get a great
deal better before the life of a daily-news-
Eaper reporter will be anything else than a
ell upon earth. The reporters need have no fear
about the success of their movement. They can
go right ahead, and if, well knowing that the big
newspapers of the Australia.? have formed a com-
bination to prevent employes who prove recalci-
trant in one office from obtaining employment in
another, the pressmen don’t stand solid and cast
in their lot with the trades-unions, then they
deserve to die in the gutter.
# * *
Those worshippers of catskin and cere-
monies, the N.S.W. judges, intend, it is said, to
have the Queen’s Counsel appear before them in
knickerbockers in addition to the usual livery.
* * #
Mr. Zahnliter, stabbed by the Cingalese
(or Malay) at Penrith, was progressing favour-
ably until, during the temporary absence of his
nurse, some people went in and talked to him and
gave him newspaper-clippings. Yon can just as
easily talk a man to death as stab him to death,
and when a man has been well-nigh stabbed unto
death, talk is fatal. But when a man has been
both stabbed and talked at, and you give him a
Sydney Morning Herald leader on “The Physio-
logical basis of Morals ” his doom is almost irre-
vocably sealed.
* * *
The N.S.W. Government unfortunately
have plenty of precedents for pensioning the
widow of the murdered Sergeant Beatty. The
widow of Sergeant Wallings, shot dead at Won-
bobbie on the Macquarie, enjoys a pension of £l5O
a year; Mrs. Bowen, widow of the senior-con-
stable who was shot by Moonlight’s gang at
Wantabadgery, got a pension; as did Mrs. Mit-
chell, wife of the gaoler at Coonamble, who was
shot a few years ago by Angel and Thurston.
The widow of Sergeant Andrew Sutherland, shot
at Beni Creek, near Cowra, enjoyed a pension
till she re-married.
_ # # *
Apart from the lesson afforded by the
readiness and effect with which the black slayer
of the unfortunate Sergeant Beattie used his 9in.
knife, it is plain that something will have to be
done to restrain the Cingalese hawkers in more
than one Sydney suburb. These niggers visit
houses when the master has gone to business, and
when the door is opened by the servant or mistress
they put one foot on the threshold to keep it open.
This foot business is another of the moral aspects
of Imperial Federation.
# # *
The Kintores have gained in Adelaide the
reputation of being about the stingiest set who
have yet lived at the local Government House.
* * *
The Australasian Society for the Advance-
ment of Science has a thousand members. About
half their number profess to know something
of entomology, and yet not one of them has suc-
cessfully grappled with the great flea question or
the momentous problem of how to keep the mos-
quito outside the bed-hangings.
* * #
The story goes that there has been some-
thing like a mutiny at a certain big newspaper-
office somewhere in Australia. Before the last
“ wayzegoose ” or annual picnic it was arranged
by the mechanical staff that the remarks to be
made by a certain high official should be received
in dead silence—and so they were. The little
unpleasantness between the influential official and
his subordinates has now, it is said, culminated in
open revolt.
# # #
Somebody has just sent us from London
an annual volume of a slushy ladies’ magazine
called The Princess. It has an illustration on
about every third page, and every one of the
pictures represents a man hugging a woman. We
are gradually beginning to understand the aspira-
tions of the sex. However, in justice to woman-
kind it must be mentioned that The Princess is
edited (like most princesses) by a man—this time
named Edwin J. Brett—who is certain that
he knows what women like.
* * *
Queer tales are told of the doings on board
and off board the Victorian Government picnic
vessel, “Lady Loch,” during its recent quiet
cruise around an unfrequented coast. Gillies
(Minister of Railways) and Speight (Chief Corn-
til!!—
U\Oy CHaiK,
UE *sad ABOUT MRSJ’MtTif,
CHOPPED DEAD WHIU& I^V<K<;
O n A NEW Df?ES$ . *
SHE "
IT TRIMMED Wltlf ? "
SHELL AND KERNEL.
missioner) had such a nice trip, rejoicing "on their
immunity from the train collisions, de-railings,
breakdowns and stoppages which were shocking
poor old Smellbourae at the time. Gracious!
how they did roar when they chanced to hear that
a Chinaman had been killed ! Gillies is a bachelor,
and Speight is a widower, and there is no doubt
that they both derived great benefit from the
“Lady Loch” expedition. Hear Lady Loch!
They both wanted a change badly, but Speight
wanted it worst, because he was dreadfully
knocked up by the long leave of absence he en-
dured a while back, and by being compelled to
draw another £lOOO a year. Gillies, too, had
drawn a tremendously heavy tramway dividend
not so long since. He, likewise, felt tired before
he started, but has happily returned to his duties
without showing any traces of nervous debility
brought on by overwork. Government yachts are
a great blessing.
# * #
Like several other individuals of exalted
rank, our friend Earl Cairns has succumbed to
influenza. The story of how the bashful, curly-
headed Cairns—then known as Lord “ Gumboil ”
(Garmoyle)—achieved greatness by jilting Miss
Eortescue, a fourth-rate actress, who has become
a first-rate actress, by means of the notoriety and
£lO,OOO damages with which her soft-headed
“ mash ’’ supplied her, is too recent to call for re-
capitulation. We never heard much against
,“ Gumboil ” except that he had no brains, and
when he visited Australia, during the Lord
Dudley and Beerthirst epoch, he struck us as
being rather a pleasant-faced Johnnie. It was
quite characteristic of such a harmless young ass
that lie should die from a cold in the head.
* # *
Very shortly, we hear, the S.M. Herald
will appear in an altered and much-improved
form—as a very big eight-page paper, in shape
like the London Standard.
* * r *
The head of a certain Government depart-
ment heard that a clerk of his had married a lady
with a very “ fast ” reputation. The head being a
great stickler for “the honour” of the service
sent the Benedict a polite invitation to see him
“in his room.” The newly-wedded one under-
stood the matter thoroughly and prepared himself
accordingly. “ I understand,” said the head,
“ that you have just been married.” “Yes, sir.”
“And to Miss .” “Yes, sir.” “ Now, sir,
do you think it compatible with the dignity of the
Civil Service to enter into such a matrimonial
alliance?” “Take that! and that, and that,”
said the clerk opening his shoulders and hitting
very straight, “as my resignation.” And that’s
why the Head’s nose is not straight even unto this
day.
* * *
A deputation of clergymen have waited on
the Preston (Vic.) shire-council requesting tha
body to put down local Sunday-trading with
strong hand. It appears that during the recent
hot weather a very large number of city visitors
have been in the habit of patronising the Preston
fruit-shops to quench their thirst, and the gooc
clergymen now ask the council to put the law in
motion, the same as was being done in Fit/.roy
and other suburbs where a number of traders had
been prosecuted and fined. They deprecated the
spirit of Sunday-trading, on the ground that it
had a pernicious influence on the community,
especially on the young, who, instead of attending
their Sunday-schools, wandered to the fruit-shops
and spent their offerings!! The traders did a
large business, but were violating the law to the
disadvantage of other persons. The shire presi-
dent sardonically replied that he was deeply
grieved to hear that the youthful generation were
guilty of being thirsty and spending small
change which should go in another direction. He
would consider the matter. And then the alleged
representatives of the Almighty solemnly stalked
out.
# * *
“ What makes you drink whisky?” asked
the Williarnstown (Vic.) Bench of a “drunk ” the
other day. “Because,” saipl the prisoner,
solemnly, “because it’s not hard enough to chew.”
Their Worships had noticed it themselves and let
him go.
* * *
The newest recreation with which Sydney
Mining Exchange habitues while away the hours
when there’s nothing doing in “ silver” is the
perambulation of the corridors with a tempting
piece of thread protruding from the back-seam of
the coat. Those “ green” to the caper give a
kindly tug at. the disfiguring thread, and out
comes a yard or two, and if the pull be long
enough, 20 or 30 yards. The joker then turns
upon the uninitiated, pulls a reel of cotton from
the inside pocket, and beneficently invites him
“to take all he requires.”
* * *
The following about the Cleveland Club
libel-case appears in a London paper :
Lord Ruston is a man who looks about thirty-five, but is
really forty-one years of age. He is tall, square-
shouldered, and heavily-built, and has the air and carriage
of a cavalryman. His complexion is ruddy, and is made
to seem ruddier by a thick, yellow, sweeping moustache.
He dresses in a black frock coat, buttoned close, with a
white necktie and small diamond pin. The expression of
his face is grim, almost to the extent of a scowl, and it did
not alter while he was in court. He listened to the pro-
ceedings attentively, bending slightly forward, with his
right hand in the breast of his coat. The defendant in
the extraordinary proceedings, Mr. Parke (since convicted
and sentenced to 12 months’ imprisonment), is of medium
height and slender, and looks about two-and-thirty. He
has light-brown hair, rather long, which he brushes back
from a pale, earnest, and intellectual face. He looks more
like a hard-working student than the defendant in a news-
paper libel-case. On Tuesday he was neatly dressed,
dignified, and if there were a shade of sadness in his man-
ner it may have been due to a similar expression in the
face of an elderly lady in the rear of the court at whom he
looked and nodded with a reassuring smile. When he
went out he was warmly greeted by a crowd of newspaper-
men, among whom he Seems to enjoy warm popularity
and substantial esteem. He is a married man and has
one child. His career as a journalist has hitherto been
unusually rapid and successful.
* # *
That yarn of the London Gomorrah
Has struck decent people with horrah ;
But the lords who went free
We may very soon see,
Doing Sydney and Melbourne, begorrah !
* * *
One of the Cleveland-street avoiders of the
law has just arrived in Perth, West Australia.
* * #
At a marriage down South lately the
bridegroom was a “boko,” i.e., minus one eye.
As the happy couple were coming out of church
they were assailed with the usual showers of rice.
“Be careful, you coves, with that rice,” chimed
in the best man, “you’ll be knocking Jimmy’s
other eye out directly !”
#‘. # *
A Sydney gentleman named Donnelly
last week resented certain remarks made to him
by an across-the-backyard-fence orator named
Emily Bryant by hanging her up to a nail by her
hair; for this he got six months “summary.’’
Attorney-General Simpson says this is not enough.
But then, look at the advertisement which Mr.
Donnelly has given Mrs. Bryant’s hair. Most
women can hang their hair on a nail—in fact, they
nearly all do it—but Mrs. Bryant is one of the
few who can be guaranteed to hang on to her hair
under such circumstances.
# # #
Tune for a widower going homewards in a
mourning-coach after “ planting ” his wife : “The
Girl I left behind me.”
#** : 1
There will be a dearth of Admiralty-House
receptions for some time, as, during the Admiral’s
visit to Dunedin with the Baron, Lady Scott
intends taking a flight over to Melbourne on a
visit to “Mamma.” She will take her family
with her. And, speaking of Sittings, the Countess
of Hopetoun—after all those brave appearances on
hot-wind days at Fleraington and Caulfield—has
at last found the deadly Melbourne summer
too much for her and left on 14th inst. for Tas-
mania. All of which reminds us that Ada Ward
left Melbourne for London the other day per s.s,
Carthage.
# # *
A distinguished professor of palmistry was
lately telling fortunes in an English drawing-
room, and was asked by a newly-married lady,
among other things, whether she would have a
large family.. Said the oracle : “ You will be the
mother of three children.’ The next candidate
was the lady’s husband, who had not been intro-
duced to the palmist, and he, for fun, asked the
same question and received as answer (before a
large audience) ? “ You will be the father of two
children.”
• * * #
No less than six dead bodies were fished
out of the limpid Yarra on Christmas Eve.
* # *
There is a wild rumour to the effect that
the reason of the present rush of rickety lords to
Australia is the fame of Dr. L. L. Smith.
# # *
Sweet girl graduates mustered in force at
Baron Von Mueller’s scientific garden party, and
most of them wore bustles.
# * *
“ Steps are now being taken to form a
Portuguese Patriotic League, the object of which
i.s to discourage trade with England.” If they
stop sending Port-wine it will be all up with the
traditional John Bull—
William Henry Parker, who answers to
the description of splendid British seaman, has
come back to see his missus at Deptford, after an
extended absence of 30 years. In the meantime
his good lady had acquired a grown-up family
with the lawful connubial co-operation of a brass-
finisher, but she recognised her William at sight
and introduced him to the brass-finisher as a kind
of dead husband that had turned up promiscuous
like. According to William’s personal statement
O ! what a shock for dear John Bull !
Imagine how he’d snort.
Denied the chance of getting full
Of fine old crusted Port !
The “ dockers ” would not miss it much,
Oood drink they don’t require,
And no one cares a curse for such—
But John's an English squire.
You’ve seen the comic “ cuts ” of John.
And know his sterling worth ;
You never hope to gaze upon
A nobler man on earth ;
He’s stouter than the dockers who
In alley, lane, or court,
Must live as best they can, and do
Without their glass of Port.
Our grand-dads can remember when
(What lies our grand-dads tell!)
There used to be “ six-bottle men ”
They recollect them well;
John Bull, you’ll please to understand.
Is one of that old sort —
He always takes six bottles and
He always sticks to Port.
He always did and always shall,
In spite of “ foreign ” spleen :
Hurrah for wine from Portugal!
Likewise God save the Queen !
A bunch of trinkets from his fob
John Bull delights to sport—
Shall any third-rate Power rob
That hero of his Port ?
Let outcast London’s bitter cry
Be borne upon the breeze,
Let skinny men and women die
Of hovel-bred disease—
John Bull off fatted calf shall dine
(Or, if he chooses, sup)
And wash it down with ruddy wine,
Johnjßull wants “ keeping up.”
Britannia, bless her ! rules the waves,
'As every infant knows ;
And Britons bold to pauper’s graves
Now fly for sweet repose.
John Bull —that fiction so sublime —
Must have his glass of port;
You see no meaning in this rhyme?
Well, if you don’t you ought.


The SYDNEY DEPOSIT BANK,
90 —KING STREET-90
Established 1885.
Agencies in London and throughout Australia.
Overdrafts granted against Deposit of Deeds,
and all the usual banking business transacted.
The following are the Rates of Interest allowed
for Fixed Deposits
3 Years per cent.
12 Months Si per cent.
6 Months 7l per cent.
3 Months per cent.
S per cent, allowed on daily balance of current account.
For the past Four (4) Years a Bonus of One per
Cent, has been paid in addition to the above rates.
This is the first and only Bank in the Colonies
which divides its profits with its depositors.
Communications from the country will be
promptly attended to.
T. S. RICHARDSON,
General Manager.
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
“ He was a good, kind, excellent husband,
observed the sympathising caller, ‘ ‘ and I am sure
nobody can ever take his place. " “ N—not
entirely,” replied the bereaved young widow.-—Ex.
Stipendiary Abbott, of Sydney, wants to
know by what means Mr. Matthew Mark Davis,
who now and then gets sentenced to six months’
or a year’s imprisonment, always manages m the
course of a month or two to get turned out upon
the world which is his oyster. Perhaps Matthew
Mark, having two of the Evangelists for Ins god-
fathers, has a strong hold on clerical sympathy.
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
Everybody should use Pemell's latest best- Snow-white
Patent Roller Flour. It is the greatest success of the
age.
Use Batho’s Baking Powder,
Bona-Fide announcement. Highest cash price
given for all kinds of gent’s left off clothing.
Dress-suits for sale or hire. Letters promptly
attended to by QUITTENTON BROS., 11l
Russell street, MELBOURNE. (New number,
163,)
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
SCOTTS
EMULSION
OF PURE COD LIVER OIL
and HYPOPHOSPHITES
Almost as Palatable as Milk-
So disguised that it can fee taken,
digested, and assimilated by the most
sensitive stomach, when the plain oil
cannot be tolerated; and by the com-
bination of the oil with the hypophoa-
phites is much more efflcaciona.
Remarkable as a ISesh producer.
Persons gain rapidly 1111116 taking it.
SCOTT’S EMULSION is acknowledged by
Physicians to he the Finest and Best prepa-
ration in the world for the relief and cure or
CONSUMPTION. SCROFULA,
GENERAL DEBILITY, WASTING
DISEASES, EMACIATION,
COLDS and CHRONIC COUCHS.
The great remedy for Consumption, and
Wasting in Children. Sold by all Chemists.
Robertson’s Wh isky - £2 °°
OVEN AWAY TN THE COLONIES
AS' follows :
16 of X 5 each, 35 X 3, and 70 XI,
Pamphlets from the Agents,
allt & CO
Xilmlted,
CHARLOTTE PLACE, SYDNEY
he has been everything, from a pirate down to a
local preacher—sometimes taking a hand in the
American War and occasionally acting as cannibal
on desert islands—during his travels. But his
’art kept true to his 801 l from generation to
ceneration, and now that he has come back like
broad upon the waters, after many days, he will
very likely make things rough for the land swab
of a brass-finisher, not to mention the grown-up
family. However, we rejoice to learn, further
down in this story of marital devotion, that “a
solicitor has been instructed to make some
amicable arrangement,” from which we surmise
that the contending parties will divide the spoil,
or toss up.
* * *
Coroner Youl, of Melbourne, held 459
inquests last year, half of which deaths he ascribes
to drink. He doesn’t say which drink, but we
think Yarra water has the pull on colonial beer.
* * *
A Melbourne Heyenin’ ’Orrible fills up its
corners with such morsels of light literature as
a burned child dreads the fire, why
does a person who has been singed by Cupid’* torch
*0 often have a lingering regard for the old flame? ”
Cupid’s torch, indeed ! The sub-editor has evi-
dently got his classical fancies mixed up. He
meant to say : If a beaten husband dreads the
fire-irons, why does a man who has been pierced
oy Hymen’s bow and arrow so often have a linger-
ing regard for the new nurse-girl ? ”
Cobb & Co. ’s drivers are now not permitted
to carry lady passengers on the box-seat.
W * *
Ad. from Society Times (London); —
nOLD MINE IN AUSTRALIA WANTED. Write
VJT f u n particulars to-“ Prom,” c/o Society Times,
GS-70 Wardour-street, W.
The Bulletin is ready to take orders for gold-
mines to any extent. Liberal discount to whole-
sale buyers. A nice little parcel of sixty mines,
with two trunks-full of scrip, will be sold cheap,
as we have had ’em on hand just ten years, and a
presentation gold watch went at an awful sacrifice
in a well-meant but abortive attempt to pay up
the calls.
* * *
He (speaking of his political hero) : “He
is a grand man, I tell you—a grand man.” She :
“Yes, as a piano is called grand, when it is
neither upright nor square.”
** *
The fashion New York society girls have
of embroidering appropriate sentiments, such as—
I don’t care what the daisies say,
I know I’ll be married some fine day,
on their undergarments is said to have origi-
nated in the theatrical ranks. One well-known
actor has the ten commandments worked in aras-
cene silk on the lining of his smoking jacket ;
another, soulfully intense, has Honi soil qui maly
pense running down the spine of his bath-robe in
golden rod ; the great masher Bellew (who will be
back in Australia with his bandy-legs shortly) has
“ What’s the matter with Kyrle Bellew ? He’s all
right! ”in crewel-work on his suspenders, and the
greatest dude of all wears heliotrope-silk socks
with “Mizpah” on each. This sentiment is
believed to convey a delicate, touching and yet
forcible appeal to his laundress to return them in
P air3 '
A Hindoo gentleman, named Jury, seems
to have been cutting his throat in Sydney because
one Suliemann Amen, Esq., owed him £lO. If
Australians went on like that what a deal, O !
what a deal of throat-cutting might be charged to
the account of our local mashers ! Hundreds of
pur smartest “ Block ” ornaments are Amens.
*- * *
A Victorian Artilleryman made a gallant
attack upon a woman the other day, and gave her
two black eyes. Which decisive engagement cost
the warrior £l6 6s.
* # *
A Southern paper inveighs against the
system which compels English railway-servants to
work more than ten hours a day. The same jour-
nal keeps its reporters at work from ten or eleven
a.m. till past midnight, while recently one of the
staff was summarily dismissed for joining a press-
association.
# * *
Some tall gambling happens on board the
inward-bound mail-steamers. Just before getting
into port the other day one childlike youth was
eased of 1700 golden sovereigns by a back-blocks
man with a long stocking who loves to raise the
pool at nap.
# * ••*
“ Fun on the Bristol” is mostly a leg-
show, especially in the second act, ’where two
damsels of enormous development stand like
statues, seen and not heard, throughout. Gov.
Hopetoun has been twice there already.
* * *
Here is a new departure. Van der Weyde,
the London photographer, has photographed San-
dow, the famous German athlete, with nothing on
but a figleaf, and this portrait is reproduced in
the Ball Mall Gazette. We tremble for the
desperate future of opera-bouffe. Van der Weyde
refused to—take Sandow in acrobatic c Qthes, and
cut the figleaf out of brown paper, The photo-
graph is magnificently lighted, and ' Sanduw re-
sembles a superb piece of statuary, the Hercules
or Apollo. Now is the time for Professor Miller -
to strike out something novel and statuesque.
* *
Lord Arthur Somerset, who was recently
afforded a chance of clearing out of Lngland, had
excellent precedent in the Prince’s set. l ummy s
private sec. and dear friend Georgie Russell had to
bolt in Consequence of a card affair, and Walter
Harbord, brother of Lord Sufheld, forgot at IS ice
that a pack of cards does n t contain quite so
many kings as a German watering-place, and so
had to shuffle and cut ; then Teratchewski was
bowled out at the Marlborough Club, and he
was man enough to suicide. Somerset sinned,
if he did sin, in good company, and doubtless
many of his set who now hold him up to shame
behind his back are but little cleaner.
* # *
They had been sweethearts when they were
children and always swore to marry one another.
They were still of the same mind when she was a
pretty girl of fifteen and he a beardless, handsome
lad a few years older. Their people lived quite
close to one another, and the attachment was
looked upon as most satisfactory. She nearly
cried her eyes out when she heard her beloved
Tom was to leave England and go to Queensland
to his rich uncle’s station on the Downs ;but he
AN IMPORTED ARTICLE.
HEAD OF FIRM (with a cold in it): “MR. JINKS!”
MR. JINKS (confidential cleric) “SIR (KATCHEW!) TO YOU, SIR!
HEAD OF FIRM: “I SAY (KATCHEW!) THAT IS, I THINK THERE MUST BE
A WINDOW OPEN (KATCHEW! KATCHEW!!).”
MR. JINKS: “EXCUSE ME, SIR (KATCHEW!) NO, SIR; IT’S ALONG OF
THEM FOREIGN LETTERS YOU’RE A-OPENING OF; THEY MUST
HAVE THE INFLUENZA IN ’EM. (KATCHEW!).”
BOTH TOGETHER—“KATCHEW! KATCH -EW!! AH—HATCH-E-A—l-O-U!!!”
comforted her with the promise to work like a
trooper ” until he got a big station of his own/
when she was to come out and marry him. tfd
when she was twenty she sailed, full of hope jand
affection, under the care of an infirm old chaperone.
The doctor of the steamer coaxed her and cham-
pagned her and sal-volatilised her through a trying
time of sea-sickness and she was met iruSyxiney by
a broad-shouldered Hercules with a*new cabbage-
tree and silk coat, and “ bearded,, like the pard.
This was Tom. History repeated itself, once more
she nearly cried her eyes ouf—and returned in the
doctor’s vessel to England. They were manned
on re-landing but soon returned to Australia, and
now live within 20 miles of the disappointed
squatter, who has consoled himself by marrying
a widow with several children.
# * *
In Sydney, during the last few days, two
polioeifiehhave been soundly thrashed and jumped
upon by pugilists. When any prize-fighter, drunk
or sober, assaults any citizen or policeman he
should be given a minimum of six months’ gaol on
low diet “without the option.” Are you listening,
Attorney-General Simpson ?
* * *
The headgear worn by the worthy justices
and court-officials in the Magistrates’ Court at
Orange N.S.W.) recalls a picture of the Doges.
The justices in fair round belly adorn their silvery
locks with enormous velvet skull-caps; the Clerk
of the Court and the bailiff, of course, follow suit.
Sydney F.cho grows enthusiastic over an
etching by an armless artist. It appears Jo think
the performance almost miraculous. Put now
much does an etching by an armless artist di er
from a half-column article by a headless journalist !
* * *
,Dr. Balls-Headley, retiring president of
the Victorian Medical Society, said in Ins
“ annual address ” that the sanitary arrangements
of Melbourne were “similar to those of Pinna
and Japan.” A fresh incursion of Chows may
now be expected to “The Queen City of the
Sc | lltb -” * * *
In connection with the threatened strike
of Melbourne policemen, it is interesting to note
tllat some of the force are, m their moments of
wakefulness, studying shorthand. The natural
inference is too awful for any reporter to contem-
plate.
There are less than half a million Jews in
France, yet of the 84 prefects of Departments 62
are Jew, ,
The Argus was pained to observe that the
criminal who was flogged in Melbourne gaol last
week took his punishment With ill grace. ihc
wretch actually turned his back on the flagellator.
A sailor pulled his wife bef re the Wil-
liamstown (Vic.) Court the other day
plained that she knocked him down with a stool
ami then pulled him along the floor by the hair*
The wife was ploughing the mane, for a change.
Two old identities of Young (N.SAV.)
have just passed away. Harry Minter, a well-
known member of the Masonic craft, who came
with the first rush ; and Win. Regan, a native of
the district, aged 60, to whose family the first
rush is due. On the spot known to shepherds as
the “Lambing” Flat, on the Bnrrangong run,
owned by his uncle, Dennis Regan found gold in
June, 1860 ; in January, 1861, the big rush took
took place, and in June of .the same year an influx
of Chinese caused a disturbance which brackets
Lambing Flat in Australian history with
the Eureka of ’54. However, the ’54 men
were termed “ rebels,” and such as were
captured were tried for high treason, while
the “ flats ” were called rioters, and were
tried for riot only. Both the “ traitors ”
and the rioters were duly acquitted by their
“ country.” Colonel Kempt marched a lot of
soldiers on to the ground—the railway only went
asfar as Campbell town —and the Colonial Secre-
tary “ Slippery Charlie,” went up a few days
after to see fair play. A now useful member of
the Legislative Assembly harangued the diggers—
Lalor fashion—from a neighbouring stump, and,
as is alleged by his lying detractors— they always
lie in these things-having wound them up to
concert pitch, gave them his blessing and left them
to face the music and cover themselves with glory.
The Respectable Dam.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
“ Not long ago it was comfortably proved that it
was not always wrong to use a big, big D. When
you say “ Don’t care a d ! ’ you merely re-
mark that you don’t care a ‘ dam,’ which is a sort
of Oriental brass farthing.”— Australian daily
newspaper.
Dear friends, if perchance you should hear me
declaring
“ I don’t care a dam ” for that or for this,
You must never suppose for a moment I’m swear-
The word need not frighten a boarding-school
miss; . . , . ,
On my soul that expression is somewhat rekerky
A “ dam ” means the fourth of a penny in 1 urkey.
So, having explained how in speech I’m a model
For Methodist parsons, permit me to state
That I don’t care a dam for Imperial twaddle,
To which we’ve been treated so freely of late ;
1 don’t care a dam (now I know its not cursin )
For the loyalty cry of a vice-regal persm.
Sir Barkes will go over to talk Federation
With Gillies and others of lesser renown ;
They will not try to start an Australian nation.
But merely to tighten those bonds for the
Crown;
And, seeing their game just as plainly as one can,
I don’t care a dam for old Barkes or his Duncan.
Barnell, so it seems, has been made co-respon
dsnt,
The verdict against him might possibly go;
Shore the friends of ould Erin must not be
despondent —
I don’t care a dam if he’s giddy or no ;
The cause of Home Rulers, which can’t be gain-
said, is ,
Not weakened by gents, making love to tne
ladies.
The odours that hang around Melbourne are
frightful, .
Yet fat City Fathers won’t notice the stink ;
They simply observe that the Queen is delightful -
Tis only her health they are careful to drink ;
They are not worth the paper I’m writing tins
squib on .
(I don’t care a dam for the Mayor or Eitzgibbonj.
A Bortuguese soldier named Binto grew skittish,
And fooled with a standard on African soil;
Now, if he should have a set-to with the British,
And two robbers fight o’er division of spoil,
I don’t care a dam who may lose or may win it—
The nigger they job doesn’t seem to be in it.
We’ve pantomimes running in Melbourne and
Sydney, ... ,
So lavishly mounted, but Gracious ! how slow :
These new-fashioned pants they are all of a
kidney, . „
Much fuller of leg (do you see it) than go;
Though forests of legs cost a rare lot of money,
I don’t care a dam if the show isn’t funny.
Dear friends, with your leave, I will now be con-
cluding ;
Although you may think that the verses are
“rot,”
It isn’t a matter on which I’ll be brooding — 1
I don’t care a dam if you like ’em or not;
0 ! p’raps they are “snappy,” “O ! p’raps they
are “ sloppy ” _
1 don’t care a dam if I’m paid ior the copy.


AN EVENING COURTSHIP.
Against the window the rain-drops beat,
The servants lights the lamp,
In cosy parlors lovers meet,
And there they meet and camp.
Oh, “witching hours,” Oh, honeyed love,
Who cares when summer’s flown ?
When one beside the kitchen stove
Can sit and hold his own,
And close together there they sit,
And looking very queer—
They look as though they wanted it,—
St. Louis Lager Beer.
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
Government Advertisements.
Department of Public Works,
Sydney, January 21, 1890.
mENDERS FOR PUBLIC WORKS AND
X SUPPLIES.
For Conditions, see Government Gazette.
Dates to which
Nature of Works and Supplies. (;an l-Reived
: at this office.
Repairs, &c., Lighthouse, New-;
castle
Erection of Shed at back of Ad-
miralty Wharf, Woolloomooloo
Bay
Repairs Lookup, Mornya
Repairs, &c., Post and Telegraph
Office, Grenfell
Fencing, &c., Courthouse and
Police Buildings, Narrabri
Repairs Custom House, Newcastle Wednesday,
(fresh tenders) j Feb. 5,
Erection of Courthouse, Copeland at 11 o’clock.
Construction of Wharf at Maclean
Construction of Wharf at entrance
to Dredge Dock, Kempsy
Bridge, Greenbah Creek-road,
Moree to Meroe (fresh tenders)
Erection of Post and Telegraph
Office, Mittagong
Culvert at Bathurst, opposite New
Gaol
Erection of Wall Railing, &c.,
Centennial Park (fresh tenders)
Bridge. Eucumbene River, road
Coomato Kiandra (fresh tenders)
Manufacture and Supply of Twelve
Water-balances Road Rollers
Supply of Turret Clock, Post and
Telegraph Office, Kempsey
Ditto ditto, ditto ditto ditto, Ten-
tertield
Ditto ditto, ditto ditto ditto, Bal-
lina
Ditto ditto, ditto ditto ditto, Red-
fern
Installation of Electric Light, ,
Bullock Island, Newcastle May 11,
at 11 oVk.'k.
BRUCE SMITH.
Wednesday,
Feb. 19,
at 11 o’clock.
W <*rl n p.srl n.v .
General Post Office.
Sydney, 21st January, 1800.
ATTENTION is directed to Gazette Notice
inviting Tenders for the conveyance of
mails between Linnett’s “Junction Hotel” (on
the Balranald and Ivanhoe Mail Line) and Pan
Ban; Barmedman and Wallandry; Inverell and
Wallangra; Wallangra and Goondiwindi (Queens-
and); Forbes and Dandaloo ; Charlestown and
Catherine Hill Bay ; Bungwall Flat and Forster .;
Glennie’s Creek and Goorangoola; Timbery
Range and Bombala.
Tenders will be received up to sth February
next, and must be addressed to the Secretary to
the Post Office, Sydney.
DANIEL O’CONNOR.
Amusements.
JJONDI AQUARI UM.
The Most Popular
PICNIC AND PLEASURE GROUNDS of AUSTRALIA.
The Famous Switchback Railway, conveying
Passengers from Cliff to Cliff daily.
Splendid Asphalt Open-Air Skating-Rink Free to Visitors.
Open Daily from 10 a.m to 10 p.m.
Admission, Is.; Children, 6d. Trams to Gate—Fare, Id
IJIO ALL WHOM IT MAY CONCERN.
WE PAT and ELLA MURPHY (of the
Rickard’s Irish and English Comedy Co.) hereby
give notice that the following repertoire of songs
which are our joint property, having been pur-
chased by us in England, Ireland, Scotland, and
America, are duly registered, and managers and
proprietors of theatres and halls, likewise profes-
sional singers and actors are warned against in-
fringing upon our rights.
The undermentioned list contains the titles of
our songs:—
‘Hands Across the Sea,’ ‘Auld Lang Syne,.’
(new version), ‘ Paddy’s Humble Idea,’ ‘Bouncing
Irish Girl,’ ‘ After the Picnic,’ ‘ The Irish Dude,’
‘ Good-bye, My Darling,’ ‘ Pat, you’re a Villain,’
‘ Barney Mulligan,’ ‘ The Man that came over
from Ireland,’ ‘The Widow of Wicklow,’ ‘ Irish-
men, Love Ireland,’ ‘ Only an Exile,’ ‘ Home
when a Girl,’ ‘Bound for Home,’ ‘Eviction,’
‘Love of the Shamrock,’ ‘Nationality,’ ‘Across
the Pond,’ ‘My Son Dan,’ ‘M‘Guinness, the
Brewer,’ ‘ Home Rule Concert,’ ‘ The Con-
naught Rangers,' ‘ Hindustan,’ ‘ The Girl you
Don’t Meet Every Day,’ ‘ The Lodger,’ ‘Donahoe,
the Irish Politician,’ ‘l’ve Given up my Play-
things.’ ‘Newspaper Reporters,’ 4 You’llbe Playing
Second Fiddle,’ ‘ If we did as you do,’ ‘ Bouquet
of Flowers,’ ‘A Matter of Taste,’ ‘Senator
M'Oarthy,’ ‘ They Call me Saucy Kitty,’ ‘The
Portrait of My Mother,’ ‘ Michael O’Brien,’ ‘ The
Cot.’
Any of the above Songs may be purchased from
Mr. Pat. Murphy, and all rights will be vested in
the purchasers.
BURLESQUES.
The following Burlesques, in one act, are also
available for purchase, viz.:—“Little Mar-
guerite,” “ The Squire,” and “Rip Van Winkle.”
The abovenamed burlesques have achieved suc-
cess in the principal London music-halls, and re-
quire no great scenic display. They are replete
with wit, and the musical selections are sparkling
to a degree.
All communications concerning the above songs
»nd burlesques may be made to
Mr. PATRICK MURPHY,
School of Arts, Sydney
Amusements.
tp HEA T R E ROYAL.
Under the Management of Messrs. Williamson,
Garner and Musgrove.
Lessee, Mr. S. Lazar. Treasurer, Mr. Geo. L. Goodman.
TO-NIGHT, THURSDAY, AND EVERY EVENING,
Williamson, Garner and Musgrove’s
GRAND CHRISTMAS ANNUAL,
ALADDIIM. ALADDIN.
Admission—ss., 3s. and Is.
JJ E R MAJEST Y’S THEATRE.
Lessee and Manager .... Mr. Geo. Rignold.
Doors open at 7 ; commencing 7.30. Carriages at 10.45.
To-Night and Every Evening,
Shakespeare’s Fairy Comedy,
A MIDSUMMER NIGHT’S DREAM.
Box Office at Theatre from 10 to 5. Prices as usual.
J. P. Macdonald, Acting-Manager.
QRITERION THEATRE.
Sole Proprietor .... Mr. John Solomon.
Under the Management of Messrs. Brough and Boucicault.
General Manager . .. Mr. Mayne.
Doors Open, 7. Overture, 7.55. Carriages, 10.45.
LAST TWO NIGHTS! LAST TWO NIGHTS !
of
FRIENDS. FRIENDS.
SATURDAY, JANUARY 25th,
T H E B _A_ LLOO 3NT.
Admission ... £2 2s. to Is.
Box Plan at Nicholson’s. Carriages at 10.40 p.m,
Joe Davis, Business Manager.
rpHE CYCLO RAM A!
Beyond all doubt, never, in the history of Sydney, has
there been presented an exhibition at once so novel,
wonderful and interesting 1 .
The Marvellous Rattle. Scene J
All the horrors of war, with its scenes of heroism, and
the full details of a widespreading landscape, brough
fully before the eye of the spectator.
Open daily, 10 to 10; Sundays (half-price), 3to 10.
Opposite Rbdvern Railway Terminus.
SCHOOL OF ARTS.
Lessee—Mr. Harry Rickards. Treas.—Mr. J. 0. Leete.
SATURDAY, January 35,
Sir. HARRY RICKARDS'
New English and Irish Comedy Company.
In An Entirely New Programme.
“Coobiddy,” and a Great Olio.
Every Item of which will be New.
Prices—3s., 2s. and Is. Plan at Nicholson’s.
Wm. A. Jinkins, Business Manager,
THE NEAV FRBETHOUGHT HALL,
THE FOUNDATION-STONE will be laid in
Campbell-street on SUNDAY AFTER-
NOON next, January 26, by Mr. W. W. Golrins.
Mu. J oseph Svmes and others will take part in
the ceremony.
EDGAR F. TYE,
Hon. Sec.
Shipping.
JJUDDART, PARKER and CO.’s LINE.
STEAM TO MELBOURNE AND
TASMANIA.
FROM HUDDART, PARKER’S WHARF:
FOR MELBOURNE WHARF DIRECT—
Burrumbeet | 4000 tons | Tuesday, Jan. 21, at 6 p.m.
Elingamite | 4000 tons j Saturday, Jan. 25, noon
FOR LAUNCESTON, VIA MELBOURNE-
transhipping to S.S. NEWCASTLE.
Burrumbeet | 4000 tons | Tuesday,Jan. 21, atO p.m.
Elingamite | 4000 tons | Saturday, Jan. 23, noon
These magnificent Steamships have already established
a reputation for their accommodation, and their large size
insures passengers a maximum of comfort. The SALOON
CABINS are light and airy and very roomy. FORE-
CABIN is on main deck, lofty and well ventilated. Com-
plete sanitation and lavatories. ELECTRIC LIGHTING
throughout the ships. Inspection invited on days of
sailing.
RETURN TICKETS AVAILABLE FOR SIX MONTHS.
For rates of Freight and Passage-money apply
HUDDART, PARKER & 00., Limited.
Offices and Wharf—Foot of Margaret-street.
IJVASMANIAN EXCURSIONS.
The splendid
S.S. BURRUMBEET, 4000 Tons,
will sail as under for HOBART DIRECT.
BURRUMBEET, 28th JANUARY, at 4 p.m.
GREAT REDUCTION IN FARES.
SALOON £lO 0
RETURN .. 1 10 0
STEERAGE .. .. . .. 0 10 0
RETURN TICKETS AVAILABLE FOR SIX MONTHS.
Also GREAT REDUCTION iN FREIGHT.
HUDDART, PARKER & CO, Limited.
Office and Wharf —Foot of Margaret Street.
■JJNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z.
EXCURSION TO WEST COAST SOUNDS,
THIRTEENTH SEASON. ,
The S.S. TARAWERA will make. THREE EXCUR-
SIONS to the WEST COAST SOUNDS of the MIDDLE
ISLAND, the third leaving Port Chalmers about THURS-
DAY, January 30. Connecting steamer Wairarapa,
January 25, from Melbourne. Each trip will occupy
10 days from Port Chalmers, and special facilities
will be given for fishing, shooting, and sketching, and for
exploring these wonderful Fiords, where Nature is seen in
her grandest aspects. Opportunity will also be given for
visiting the Sutherland Falls, Milford Sound, the largest
in the world. The social enjoyment of passengers is made
a special feature of these excursions, the whole trip taking
the form of an extended picnic. In order to prevent over-
crowding only a limited number of passengers will be
taken. The Tarawera will call at Bluff both waysen route.
Fare from Port Chalmers, £l2.
Full particulars at the Company’s offices, 16 Bridge-street-
Shipping.
JJIREOT SERVICE TO ENGLAND.
PENINSULAR AND ORIENTAL STEAM
NAVIGATION COMPANY.
The Company’s Royal Mail Steamships (under
contract with the Imperial, New South Wales,
Victorian, and South Australian Governments)
will be dispatched from their Wharf, Circular
Quay, as under, for LONDON, calling at Mel-
bourne, Adelaide, Albany, Colombo, Aden, Brin-
disi, Malta, Gibraltar, and Plymouth.
Steamers.
Ballaarat ..
Parramatta
Oceana
Shannon ..
Arcadia
Britannia ..
And henceforth every alternate week.
RESERVED CABINS ON MODERATE
TERMS.
SALOON PASSENGERS MAY BREAK
THEIR JOURNEY.
The arrangements for SECOND SALOON
PASSENGERS having been thoroughly re-
organised, the accommodation now offered is un-
surpassed.
Passage-money can be paid here for passages
from England. Liberal concessions made to
families.
Passengers, cargo, and parcels are booked through
to India, China, and Japan. Cargo and parcels
will not be received after 3 p.m. on the day pre-
vious to sailing.
For all information apply at the Company’s
Offices, 247 George-street.
A. MACLEAN, Acting Agent.
Commander.
is c fi .
Sts p,
' * G
o 5 & b
■s*|
4748 E. Ashdown . jFeb. 1. Feb. 7 |FehlO
4771 R. G. Murray .. Feb. 15 |Feb. 21 IFeb24
6362 P. S. Tomlin .. Mar. 1 iMar. 7 |MarlO
4189 C. R. Edwards. . Mar. 15 Mar. 21 Mar 24
6362 W. B. Andrews IMar. 29 ;April 4 Aprl 7
16257 J. Orman .. .. 'April 12’April 18 Ap. 21
ffOMPAGNIE DES MESSAGERIES MARI-
W TIMES.
SYDNEY to LONDON.
OVEELAND PROM MARSEILLES via PARIS.
Steamers under postal contract with the Government of
France, calling: at MELBOURNE ADELAIDE, KING
GEORGE’S SOUND, MADE, SUEZ, and PORT SAID.
Passengers hooked to KURRACHEE, BOMBAY,
MAURITIUS, and EAST COAST of AFRICA.
The service is carried on by powerful steamers of 4000
tons and 3000 effective h.p., built expressly for the Aus-
tralian and New Caledonian line, which will be despatched
as follows
And thenceforward on the 25th of each month.
Rates of passage-money to Marseilles from £2O to £65,
including table wines and Suez Canal dues on passengers.
RETURN TICKETS issued at the following rates
English interpreters meet through passengers for
London on arrival of steamers at Marseilles, and accom-
pany them to Paris and Calais.
N.B. -Passengers’ luggage conveyed free of cost from
Marseilles to London.
For freight, passage, and further particulars apply at
the Company’s Office, 15 Macquarie-place.
H. DE POSSEL,
Acting Principal Agent.
LLOYD.
IMPERIAL GERMAN MAIL.
Passengers are carried according to the requirements Of
the English Passenger Acts of 1885 and 1863.
MONTHLY LINE OF DIRECT STEAMERS
from
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, and ADELAIDE,
to SOUTHAMPTON, ANTWERP, and BREMEN, via
COLOMBO, Aden, Suez, and Genoa,
taking passengers for London,
connecting from PORT SAID hy DIRECT MAIL and
PASSENGER LINE to BRINDISI,
will be despatched as follows (if practicable)
And thereafter everv four weeks.
PASSAGE MONEY from SYDNEY,
£l4 to £57 10s.
RETURN TICKETS, available for NINE and TWELVE
MONTHS, at REDUCED RATES.
Passengers and Cargo are booked through to New York,
via Southampton. ■
Special facilities are afforded for bringing out relatives
and friends from the United Kingdom and Europe by pre-
payment of the passage money in Australia.
For FREIGHT, PASSAGE, and all further particulars,
apply to
FREDK. BETZ & CO., Agents,
5 O’Connell-street.
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF NEW
ZEALAND, Limited.
SAN FRANCISCO ROYAL MAIL SERVICE.
OVERLAND ROUTE TO ENGLAND VIA SAN
FRANCISCO AND NEW YORK,
Calling at
AUCKLAND and HONOLULU,
Avoiding alike the heat of the Red Sea and the cold
of Cape Horn.
Under Contract with the Postmasters-General of New
South Wales and New Zealand, the steamers of this line
are appointed to leave Sydney and Auckland for Honolulu
and San Francisco every four weeks, sailing as under:—
Each steamer carries a duly qualified surgeon.
These steamers are fitted with Electric Light and with a
Refrigerating Chamber for ship provisions, insuring a
plentiful supply of ice throughout the voyage.
Passengers are booked to San Francisco or through to
European destinations and have at San Francisco choice of
the unrivalled Atlantic Steamship Lines of the Canard,
Inman, White Star, and other companies.
All first-class passengers are allowed 3501 b. of baggage
to San Francisco and 2501 b. “ Overland ” free of charge.
THROUGH FARE TO LIVERPOOL.
FIRST-CLASS .. .. .. .. £63 to £66.
Time-cards, railway maps, and gu'de books, showing all
routes to any point in the United States, may be had on
application '
For rates of passage and freight and all other informa-
tion apply at the Company’s Offices, 15 Bridge-street.'
FREDK. W. JACKSON, Manager.
Furniture. &o.
N EWTON AND LAMB.
FURNITURE and PIANOFORTE
WAREHOUSEMEN,
CABINETMAKERS, UPHOLSTERERS
AND
BEDDING MANUFACTURERS.
SHOW ROOMS AND MANUFACTORY;
SPRING AND O’CONNELL STREETS.
Plil?-
EASY CHAIRS, for Parlour, Library, or Bed-
rooms, new designs, covered to order, in
any material. ’
PTANOTORTES, by R. LIPP and SOHN,
t other Celebrated
ivxaKers at WHOLESALE PRICES. Newton
and .Lamb.
AGATELLE BOARDS, Portable, various
sizes.
'EDROOIVI SUITES, complete, in various
tTmv J and very handsome designs, with
7, feet Wardrobes, or with smaller Wardrobes for
single rooms. Great, variety,
NEWTON and LAMB,
ordure Warehousemen,
SPRING AND O’CONNELL STREETS.
BEDROOM SUITES, fashionable early
English designs—Wardrobe 4 feet, with
silvered plate-glass door : Washstand, with marble
to l\, o • tlle hack, Towel Rail; Toilet Table,
with Swing Glass attached; and Two Cane-
Seated Chairs, 14 guineas.
NEWTON & LAMB,
O Connell and Spring Streets.
r
Canvas folding
COTS, for camping
out. A cheap occasional
bed light, strong, and
handy, 10s. 6d.
Newton & Lamb.
DINING- TABLES, with patent extending
screws, from 5 feet long and up to 20 feet.
TELESCOPIC DINING
TABLES with extra leaves, strongly
made, £3 10s.
HALL FURNITURE, HATSTANDS and
CHAIRS. LARGE ASSORTMENT.
NEWTON & LAMB. >
|“ IBRARY FURNITURE, CENTRE an"d
J_J SIDE TABLES, BOOKC ■' SES, SECRE-
TARIES, READING and LOUNGE CHAIRS.
COMMODE CHAIRS, BIDETS, withPaiv
SHAVING STANDS, NEWTON and
LAMB.
JAPANESE BLINDS, White or Green (extra
quality), fitted with pulleys and cord, 6 x 8,
Os. 6d.; 8 x 8, 95.; 9 x 8,9 s. 6d.; 10 x 8,10 s. Gd.;
12 xB, 12s. 6d.; 12x10, 15s. Newton & Lamb,
Furniture Warehousemen, Spring and O’Connell
Streets.
EASY CHAIRS for Parlour, Library or Bed-
rooms. New Designs covered to order in
any material. Newton & Lamb.
s
ELF-ADJUSTING CHAIR and COUCH*
for Invalids and Medical Men.
ROCKING EASY CHAIRS, elegant and
restful—a speciality. Newton & Lamb.
ŕ
MERICAN PATENT
SHUT UP
CLOTHES DRYER.
135 feet of hanging space.
Very Cheap.
NEWTON and LAMB.
r
ANYAS FOLDING
CHAIRS.
Substantial and Light.
Suitable for Shipboard and
Verandah.
Price Very Low.
NEWTON and LAMB
Furniture Warehousemen,
Spring O'Connell Streets.
GARDEN SEATS, 6ft. long, Rustic Cast-iron
Standards, 14s. 6d., 195., 255., 325. 6d.
Newton and Lamb.
V
ERANDAH CHAIRS.
INDIAN LONG ARM LOUNGES.
T>ATTAN VERANDAH LOUNGES, from
11; 155.; and large variety of Chairs, from
10s. 6d.; special designs, extra quality. Newton
and Lamb, Furniture Warehousemen, Spring and
O’Comic’l Streets
N
E V,
AND LAMB.
FURNITURE and PIANOFORTE
WAREHOUSEMEN,
CABINETMAKERS, UPHOLSTERERS
AND
BEDDING MANUFACTURERS.
Show Rooms and Manufactory :
SPRING and O’CONNELL STREETS.


Mr. Gollan, New Zealand’s wealthiest
sportsman, is visiting Australia with a string of
horses.
Peter Jackson will clear little by his
English tour. The blackfellow has a lot of
managers and attendants who will look after the
profits. Slavin, on the other hand, bosses his own
show, and is said to be fast making money.
“ Pendragon” says that Jackson is inferior
to Slavin, especially without the gloves. Larry
Foley now refuses to express an opinion, though
some months ago he used to say it was a guinea to
a gooseberry on the black. It is amusing, if not
disgusting, to see how a paper which vilified and
blackguarded Slavin now veers round because the
latter is victorious.
For lively sport “ the legitimate ” cannot
hold a candle to pony-racing. At last Ro yhill
pony meeting the fun was fast and furious. Some
of the knowing ones having been left “out of the
swim,” they “ got the needle,” as the “pu h ’
elegantly term it, and after the Selling Race pony
after pony was claimed, until the Club bene,ited
to such an extent that entrances and sale money
more than provided the prizes. During the after-
noon a couple of willing goes with the “raW-’uus
came off, and, taken altogether, the man must be
a glutton who could wish for a more stormy day a
ou ing. Pony-racing, trotting, and dog-fightiug
never did go along quietly in Australia.
For Dyspepsia
USB horsford’s acid phosphate.
Dr. H. R. Myers, L.F.H.S.,and L.M., 30 Euston-square,
London, says : “ I am now taking this very pleasant
preparation after meals, with marked benefit, It is very
useful in dyspepsia and nerve exhaustion.”
Building Sites, City of Perth, W. A, Plane
Intercolonial Investment Co., Limited,-86Bathurs
street, Sydney.
When next you hake try Pepiell’s Snow-white Patent
Roller Flcub. and your bread will be as white as snow.
Nota Bene ! In addition to their High Class old
Wines, Messrs. Hookings & Co,, of 410 Ooorge-su'eet, have
accepted tlie agency of the Australian \\ ine Company,
Limited, for the'.r superior cheap wines.
Use Bath )’s Baking Po-cler.
R
K
oj
o
M
y
y\OE NTS .
DELISSA3. PHILLIPS
3a 3 Barrack Street.
THE PRESCRIPTION
XX O. JLa.
WHAT IS IT?
ARE YOU NERVOUS ?
IF SO,
DON’T MISS THIS!
What everyone says is bound to be.true, and young
and old, rich and pool - , physicians who recommend, and
patients who try
The Krupp Galvanic Chain Belt,
All agree in praising that most scientific of Electro
Therapeutical Appliances, for Rheumatism it is un-
rivalled. Lumbago at once succumbs to its power. The
Nervous are strengthened and the Debilitated restored to
perfect health and vigour. In short, the appliance is an
unfailing cure for all Nervous, Sexual, or Chronic Diseases,
and is GUARANTEED to ABSOLUTELY CURE, com-
pletely and lastingly, the following complaints:—
Dyspepsia, Neuralgia, Pains in the Back and Chest,
Lumbago, Catarrh, Rheumatism, Dumb Ague,
Nervous Debility, Paralysis, Kidney Complaint,
Spinal Disease, Female Weakness, Diseases of the
Liver, Impotence, Seminal Weakness, Diabetes,
Sciatica, Atrophy, Gout, Indigestion, Asthma, Piles,
Epilepsy Spermatorrhoea, Specks before the Eyes,
Excessive Heart Palpitation, Defective Memory.
An Unfailing Cure For Varicocele.
It is a PORTABLE BODY BATTERY, and contains
special appliances for both sexes; therefore, why waste
your money and health by procuring and taking USELESS
DRUGS? Electricity, when properly applied, is acknow-
ledged by all leading and unprejudiced physicians to be
the only safe and radical cure for Nervous and Sexual
Diseases, and the thousands of testimonials received by
the Krupp Belt Co, from leading personages throughout
Australasia prove the unquest enable curative properties
of Electricity as applied by theappUance above referred to.
Our confidence in this appliance is so complete, that
we send the Belt out on trial, and guarantee it
to give perfect satisfaction. For full particulars as to
terms, etc., send for our large illustrated treatise, free,
in which these Belts are fully illustrated, the action of
electricity on the nervous system explained, and a lot of
useful information on nervous and sexual diseases given.
This treatise'also contains facsimile of testimonials received
from some of our clients who have tried our Belts. The
originals of these testimonials produced on application.
jgr" The prices of the Krupp Galvanic Chain Belt and
Suspensory are from £l.
Sole Inventor .... Carl Krupp.
Business Manager . . A. W. Courtney.
Address all communicat ions to the
Krupp Galvanic Chain Belt Co.,
Box 647, G.P.0., Sydney, N.S.W, .
Remember—The K.G. Chain Belt cures without medicine,
is easy to wear, is sent on approval, and the.first cost is
the only cost.
I'm pe rial Hot el,
TOWNSVILLE.
THOMAS WALLACE,
Proprietor.
COUNTRY STOREKEEPERS, ETC.
Should write or call upon
A. M. MARKS & CO.,
—lmporters of—
Furniture, Pianofortes, Glass, Earthenware,
CHINA, FANCY GOODS, ELECTRO-PLATE,
(IVAICS A TOBACCONISTS SUNDRIES.
SOLE AGENTS FOR
Dawn Cigars and Salonica Turkish Cigarettes.
Special Novelties in all Lines for Christmas Trade.
Prices on Application to —
3VE. Miarlta & Co-,
Vickery’s Buildings, 74a -Pitt Streeet, Sydney,
AND AT LONDON.
Telephone, No. 019.
[caw
MASON BROTHERS,
LIMITED.
263 to 269 KENT STREET,
SYDNEY,
Have always in Stock for Sale to the
Trade and Wholesale Buyers Only,
Ironmongery, ami
HARDWARE
Glass, China ami
EARTHENWARE.
WINES. DEERS it- SPIRITS,
AND GENERAL
BULK MERCHANDISE.
Agents for
JOHN WALKER and SONS
Old Highland Whisky.
J. SORIN and CO.’S
Cognac.
J. T. GAYEN’S,
Schnapps and Geneva.
A. MELVIN and SON S'
Edinburgh Bale Ale.
SMITH,
MEDICAL EXPERT
In PRIVATE COMPLAINTS of DOTH SEXES.
A Prompt and Safe Cure Guaranteed.
Nos. 7 & 8 First Floor, 482 GEORGE STREET,
Hours ; ... From 11 a.m. till 4 p.m.
HEX E3INT 3FI. "ST KIWG,
PHOTO-SCENIC ARTIST,
316 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Is constantly adding fresh subjects to his Im-
mense Stock of Australian and New Zealand
Views, comprising every variety of. subject taken
from Nature unadorned and Art glorified.
Marine Views and Landscapes,
Mountains and Caves,
Crack Yachts and Cathedrals,
Old Identities and Young Australians,
Everyday Sights and Stirring Incidents,
Stereo, and I.an tern Slides,
High-class Portraiture.
Catalogues on Application.
310 George Si., between Hunter ami King Sts.
CONSULTING ROOMS:
SYDNEY.
SPECIALTY’
If You have
Nervous Debility
Sick Headache,
Bilious Compl’nts
Fever & Ague,
Wasting of Flesh
Sleepless Nights
Neuralgia,
Or any disease of the
Liver, Bowels or Kidneys, Lack of
Strength or Nerve Power,
you can be Relieved and Cured by
LARMBR’S
CELEBRATED
TONIC.
Price, 2s 6d & ss; Post, Is extra-
Prepared only bv—
C-A-iisrs & co„
Chemists,
78 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
For Sale by all Cbcmlsts.
11. W. 4 Co.
Dr. westcott’s amenorrhcea
PILLS for Ladies, when taken for a few
days before, quickly correct all irregularities
from whatever cause arising ; 2s. 9d. and 4s. (id.,
by post 3s. and ss. W. H. SOUL and CO., 100
Pitt-street, Sydney, Agents.
NOTICE.
pEGGY’S WIDOW.
\ NEW NOVEL, r . _
A By the Author of “Is Marriage a Failure?
“ Minnie Yorke’s Offers,” “ My Master,” &c.
Is Commenced in
T 7 AMPLY HERALD PART for DECEMBER,
T Which contains also the continuation of
NEIGHBOURS.
A Great Mis-
A NEW NOVEL,
A By the Author of “Tiff,”
take,” “ Ruby North’s Lovers,” &c.
Also complete Stories, Essays, Answers to
Correspondents, Cookery, Miscellanea, Enigmas,
Charades, Riddles, &c. „
PI AMPLY HERALD PART for DECEMBER,
r The Australasian says
“ This favourite domestic magazine retains all
its old interest and variety.”
It AMILY HERALD may be had in Half-yearly
P Volumes and in Monthly Parts of all Colonial
Booksellers, and Newsagents ; or the Monthly
Part direct from W. Stevens, 421 Strand,
London, England, for 14s. per annum, post-free.
Loudon : W. Stevens, 421 Strand ; and at all
Newsvendors.
Look! Sensible Xmas Presents.
SPECTACLE?, every description, from Is. to 30s. Sight
tested Free, or gauge sent. Telescopes and Micros-
copes, from 2s. 6d. to £5. Liver Telescopes, very power-
nil, show objects six miles, with Astronomical Glass, case
and sling, 21s. Magic Lanterns, from 10s. Pilot, Hmm,
Opera, and Marine Glass combined, 225. 6d. Boys Nickel
.Vatches, from 10s. to 17s. (id., guaranteed. Silver
drooches and Bangles, from Is. (id. (Information given.)
W. E. TOO S E,
Optician, &c., 413 George Street, Near Royal Hotel.
J. SITTERLIN,
FROM PARIS,
Ladies’ Hairdresser. Wigmaker, & Perfumer,
25 SYDNEY ARCADE, SYDNEY.
o
HISTORICAL AND FANCY HAIRDRESSING A
SPECIALTY.
Manufacturer of All Kinds of Theatrical
and. Street Wigs.
Animo'ilatcd Quinine,
The most efficient Hair Lotion, to prevent prema-
ture baldness.
Sitterlin’s Vegetable Hair-dye,
The only Hair-dye in the colonies to restore Light
Hair to its natural colour. All shades.
3uoc g s s Glu.aran.'testi.
A Wonderful Remedy-
MARSHALL’S TONIC NERVINE
Is now Universally Acknowledged to be a wonderful
deniedv for Nervous and General Debility, Nervous
Prostration, Torpidity of the Liver, Indigestion, Palp.t-
itionof the Heart, Nervous Headache, Diabetes, Lassitude,
Impaired Nutrition, Neuralgia, Hypochondria, Loss oi
Energy and Appetite, Female Complaints, Dizziness
Nois"s in the Head and Ears, Loss of Vital Power, Alchohc
■Jmvinir, Premature Decline, Impoverished Blood, ini-
paired Sight and Memory, Consumption in its early stages
Effects of Youthful Indiscretions, Mama, and ad diseased
jonditions of the system preceding from Deficiency ot
Serve Force. A few doses speedily afford relief, wni.st a
-curse effects a permanent cure. Innumerable instances
emphatically testify to the truth of this statement.
Thousands of testimonials invite the afflicted to test it toi
themselves.
Each Drop is Worth a Drop of Gold.
There is no remedy like Marshall’s Tonic Nervine for
Female Complaints. Every female should have a
bottle ready at hand, because for Irregularities, etc.,
it surpasses all others. As the nervous system is the
main-spring of human vigor and" healthful regularity,
so where this complicated organism is deranged, Marshall s
Tonic Nervine acts with a precision and curative
like the day spring dispersing the shades of night, the
whole organic system which depends upon the nerves tor
its streams of electric force is recuperated and renewed
with th’s Great Yitaliser. The muscles rebound with the
energy of youth, appetite and healthful condition follow.
The skin becomes bright and clear, and the winter ot
disease is made summer by the glorious sun of health.
Thousands of restored patients everywhere gladly support
the forcible truth of these assertions, and one trial will
render certainly doubly sure.
Marshall’s Tonic Nervine
Is sold by all Chemists and Storekeepers, and is
ONLY PREPARED BY
MARSHALL BROTHERS
■llO, George Street, Sydney.
B In consequence of spurious imitations of “Tonic
Nervine ” which are calculated to deceive the public,
Marshall Bros, have to request that purchasers see that
the Label on every bottle bears their signature, thus—
without which no bottle is genuine. Ask for Marshall's
Tonic Nervine and see that you get it. Trade mark.
“Tonic Nervine.”
Tliomas R oss,
TOBACCO &. CIGAR IMPORTER,
27 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY,
(Corner of Pitt Street.)
A large stock of Genuine £lnvnn»nli Cigars, of the
choicest Brands to select from.
Sole Importer of the Celebrated “ Flor «I<‘ Bon Ito ”
Brand of Cigars and •• Empire t'igarcltes.”
Ask for the
Unequalled
“DAWN” 3d. CIGAR,
Of all
Tobacconists
Store
AND
Hot
KEEPERS.
■ ■
Wholesale Agents: A. M. MARKS & Co
74a PITT STREET, SYDNEY
HISK
DAW SOU’S
Sole Agents for Australasia
VAUGHAN, ROGERS & C 0„
(Opposite G.P.0.)
108 PITT "STREET, SYDNEY.
E
It
F
E
C
T
I
O
N
WHISKY .
SUB-AGENTS WANTED
IN 'THE
PRINCIPAL CENTRES
THROUSHOUT AUSTRALASIA
©
Si ■
EfilCH, CREAMY
jll ill
CLOSE LATHE
iiiiii#'
Colgate's Caskere Eoquet Toilet Soap
Is made with the utmost care from materials
selected with the
Greatest Regard for Purity,
And for the soothing and beneficial effect which
they impart to the skin and the complexion,
G-Olcl Medial, Paris, 1889
“ Unequalled in Quality and Perfume.”
To be obtained from all Chemists and Dealers
in Perfumery, hake no substitute.
EVERYONE KNOWS, who shaves himself,
how exasperating, it is, after having lathered his
face, to take up his razor to shave and find his
lather dried and his beard stiffef than ever. This
will not happen when COLGATE'S DEMUL-
CENT SHAVING SOAP is used. Why?
Because the lather it makes is dose and stays on
the face. Once made, it does not disappear and
leave the face dry, but is creamy soft to the skin
and permanent.' Gentlemen interested will be
glad to, learn that consignments of this elegant
toilet preparation are to hand, and it may be
obtained from all leading chemists and dealers in
toilet requisites. Those who have never had the
pleasurable experience of using it should lose no
time in doing so.
WHAT EXPERIENCE TEACHES
IS BEST,
There is something to consider in the daily ex-
penses for the household necessities, which in the
aggregate of the year amount to a good deal. The
ethics of buying and selling seem to be for the
vendor to get all he can, and for the purchaser to
see that he don’t get too much. But what is too
much? It is almost a profound question, and
presents the strange paradox that the dearest in
many things is often the cheapest. Certainly
this is so in food, when health is involved, and in
remedies which restore health after it has been
impaired. It is certainly so in clothing; for a
cheap suit that will hardly last one season is
dearer than the one which will last two seasons,
the difference in price being reasonable. So in
shoes, and the like, Recurring to the items of
food and health, undoubtedly the most important,
it is found that villainous adulteration is what
renders it cheaper in much that is sold, and men
are known who have spent tho sands to be cured
of disease, have suffered years of agony, and have
trifled away their substance on worthless reme-
dies. That which is testified to by thousands
as being an absolute cure, and permanently
efficacious, is cheap at any price in comparison
with such as have no virtue, and which prolong
suffering. A case in point is the following
•‘New Bloomfield, Pa., April 20, 1880. Ihe
Charles A. Vogeler Co., Baltimore, Md. Gentle-
men,—For more than thirty years I had been
afflicted with rheumatism so severe I had to use
morphine to secure rest at night. Spent hundreds
of dollars with physicians and for remedies with-
out benefit. Five, years ago I tried St. Jacobs oil,
and it effected an entire and permanent cure. 1
have not been troubled with it since. Cold or
damp weather does not affect me at all. I desiie
to give it my unqualified endorsement. J. I-
Bonsai- r-, clerk of the several Courts of i errj
County, Pa.” The point here is not so much
what Mr. Bonsall paid for the great remedy for
pain, for the price is a mere bagatelle, but that he was
permanently cured after 30 years’ suffering. Of
, nurse the poor must count the cost in ev ei j thing ,
but they should reckon on the sound basis that
that which is bad is worthless, and that which is
the best and will cure, and keep cured, is cheap at
any price.
A BROADCAST BLESSING.
.The educational force of the Waterbury W atch:
has been felt all over the world. America, Europe,
Asia, Africa and all Australasia have shared in its
civilising and encouraging impulse, ihe peasant
of the Ru sian Empire, the Kirghis on the steppes
of Asia, the Arab horseman of the desert, and the
Egyptian Fellaheen upon the Nile can, and do,
boast, of a timekeeper, which for utility, accuracy,
and rough service is the peer of, and often more to
he relied upon, than any elaborately jewelled
pocket-piece carried by th j nobility or richer
classes of their respective countrymen. In Japan,
throughout India, in the forests of Brazil, upon
tire plains of Buenos Ayres, and into the furthest
back-blocks of Australia the Waterbury W atch
has found its way, and wherever the people are
industrious there the Waterbary Watches are
worn ; there the people are daily becoming more
punctual, enterprising, and sir cessful.
THE DOWNFALL OF A HUMBUG.
The day of the “ cheap Swiss \V atch has gone
by. It is ill-fitting—roughly made, not inter-
changeable, and when once out of order, rarely, if
ever, susceptible of satisfactory repairs. r l be
country has been flooded with those implements,
but, gigantic as this importation has been, they
must yield to the superior merits of - xnericart
watches. The very first watch produced by the
Waterbary Watch Company sounded the death
knell of the Swiss atrocities. In 1889 the battle
had been won, and the days of unreliable time-
pieces practically numbered, i lie modem David
of American genius and accuracy has, by force of
inti insic merit, caused the downfall of the S.viss
Philistine of cheap horological humbug.


jossmon mmiin.
By Royal Letters Patent.
The Most Useful Ointment in the World,
Bar None.
PREMIER OINTMENT is the SOUTHERN
HEMISPHERE. But. as many new arrivals
have lately made New South Wales their home, it
may be as well to let them know that there is such
an . rticle as JOSEPHSON’S OINTMENT purely
the production of the colony, composed of wild plants
indigenous to the country and nowhere else, the
principal of which is the EUCALYPTUS, now
so famed thoroughout the world.
Josephson’s Ointment is purely vegetable, and
G IT ARAN T E E D PIIEE FROM ALL POISONOUS
Qualities. No Artificial Colouring, as the
Green colour is extracted from the pure green
plants, which defy imitation.
WHO SHOULD SUFFER FROM PILES,
when one application will relieve you ?
Read this letter and Try for Yourselves
Messrs. E. Row and Co.
Dear Sirs, —I have tried your Joephson’s Oint-
ment for Piles, and have found much relief from
using it. You are at liberty to use this if you feel
disposed.
I remain, yours, etc.,
L. P. SOLOMONS, Herald Office.
STUDY HEALTH BY TAKING ROW’S
STEANE’S BITTERS.
The great demand throughout the colony for
these pure Bitters shows they are superior to all
others and equalled by none.
Facts Speak Louder than Words.
Read this sworn testimony from a well-known
citizen :
Statutory Declaration.
“I) George Hewett, do hereby solemiy and
sincerely declare as follows :
“ That I feel it a duty I owe to the public to
state that I have been suffering for many years
from weakness of the stomach, so called INDI-
GESTION or DYSPEPSIA, and have been cured
by my taking two or three glasses of ROW’S
STEANE’S BITTERS a day in a little water, and
I hope others suffering from the same complaint
will be as speedily cured.
“ (Signed) G. HEWETT,
“ 215 Pitt-street.
Row's Bteane’s Wine
Is a safe and sure stimulant for the female sex or
children, for it raises and strengthens depressed
systems without producing a temporary excite-
ment to be followed by greater depression.
Persons suffering from loss of appetite and
general depression of spirits cannot do better than
take
ROW’S STEANE’S WINE.
It cannot harm you, but must do good to all
delicate persons. Young Ladies can take this
when suffering from general debility. It’s only a
pure tonic. Try it.
Teetotallers will find this newly-invented
TONIC answer all the purposes of a stimulant
without its intoxicating quality. It will satisfy
the cravings of nature and create a desire for food
instead of drink. As an anti-febrile is unsur-
passed.
ROW’S
DANDELION
BITTERS.
We recomrned these BITTERS to be taken
two or three times a day; a wineglassful for an
adult, smaller quantity for children.
For General Debility, Dyspepsia, Rheumatism,
and Cutaneous Affections.
The action of dandelion, more especially upon
the liver and kidneys, in more reliable for remov-
ing all impure secretions than any other medicinal
plant known.
Persons suffering from Skin diseases will find
these Bitters invaluable.
DIRECTIONS FOR USE.
One windlass two or three times a day after
meals diluted with same quantity of water. For
young people about half the quantity twice a day.
They Purify the Blood and Liver.
See what a Medical Gentleman says
about them.
Messrs. E. Row and Co.
With thanks for forwarding me a bottle of your
Row's Dandelion Bitters, and consider them most
excellent, and superior to many others that I have
previously tried. Yours faithfully, HENRY
CHARLES CURTIS, M.R.G.S., England.
Port Adelade, October 30, 1886.
Read an expression of thankfulness received
from the undersigned :
“I have for many years been obliged to take
medicines of different kinds for affections of the
liver, indigestion, pain in the chest, general de-
bility, feeling of nervousness, weariness, great
depression of spirits, and so on, but all without
producing any beneficial effect, till at last, being
recommended to try ROW’S DANDELION
BITTERS, which, happily, I find has produced
an unexpected and wonderful effect and change
in my system, and has removed from my mind
the horrible depressed feeling and former con-
dition of bodily ailment I have so unhappily ex-
perienced for so many years.
“ I am glad of the opportunity to make known
the excellent qualities of ROW’S DANDELION
BITTERS, that those who are afflcted as I have
been may take advantage of them.
“ I remain, dear sirs,
“ Respectfully yours,
“ MARY TERRILL,
“ Carlisle Cottage, Leichhardt.
“Messrs. Ed. Row and Company, Sydney.”
Hotel-keepers all keep Row’s Assorted Bitters
CONTAINING :
HOW’S STEANE’S HITTERS.
HOW’S YOU’LL DO BITTERS.
ROW’S QUININE BITTERS.
ROW’S ORIENTAL BITTERS.
HOW’S DANDELION BITTERS.
BARON BERZELIUS BUCIIU BITTERS.
HOW’S ASSORTED WINES.
SOT.K I‘IiOI’KIKTOHS,
EDWARD ROW A CO.,
43, lb, 47 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY-
M
X 1
0/ cru
TO YOXJIMG MIESIST.
DR. FLETCHER’S
TREATISE ON NERVOUS DISEASES. THEIR CAUSE,
SYMPTOMS, TREATMENT, AND CURE.
HPHE directions contained in this little treatise will'be
found of immense benefit to the sufferer; and if these
directions are observed during the early stages of Nervous
or Sexual Debility, So Medicine* will be required, as, by
observing the directions given, the patient can Cure Him-
self. _
This admirable little treatise is specially written to
show a method of counteracting the evil effects of indis-
cretions in early life—overwork, irregularity in eating or
drinking, &c. It is the result of much study and long
and successful experience in the treatment of diseases,
and contains a fund of useful information to every suf-
ferer _ from the following complaints, viz. Nervous
Debility, Dizziness, Specks before the Eyes, Pains in the
Back, Defective Memory, Loss of Will Power, Loss of
Energy, Spermatorrhoea, Bashfulness, Discontentedness,
Constipation, Liver and Kidney Derangements, Atrophy,
Impotence, Impure Blood, Foul Taste in Mouth, Palpita-
tion of Heart, Wakefulness, Despondency, Excessive Ner-
vousness, Inability to Marry, Premature Decay, and other
symptoms experienced by nervous sufferers.
All Should Send for this Little Treatise.
If the complaint is of long standing and requires
medicine, Dr. Fletcher will GUARANTEE TO CURE
ANY CASE OF NERVOUS or SEXUAL DEBILITY
with ONE COURSE OF MEDICINES LASTING FIVE
WEEKS, and will send with medicines A WRITTEN
GUARANTEE to cure same or return the monies paid.
Dr. Fletcher’s treatment is both simple and effective,
and within the reach of the poorest. It is unlike any
other, and with it he has cured over 25,000 patients, and
invites patients to investigate his statements by verifying
the testimonials published in his treatise. The treatise
will be forwarded on receipt of two stamps to cover
postage.
CONSULTATION BY LETTER, FREE.
Address in first instance—
DR. H. EVVAHT FLETCHER,
Box 1117, G.P.O.
Sydney, N.S.W.
Private address—Clonmel House, Waverley, Sydney.
Remember, all cases undertaken, guaranteed, and a
signed agreement given, which provides that NO COST
be incurred by the patient if a cure is not effected.
VARICOCELE RADICALLY CURED WITHOUT
OPERATION.
Mention this Paper.
I rse Batho’s Baking Powder.
E\ -ybody says—and what everybody £ays must be true
—that "emell’s Snow white Patent Roller Flour is the
best in the market.
Write for plans £lO Building sites, Perth,
Western Australia. Intercolonial Investment
Company, Limited, 96 Bat hurst-street, Sydney.
Special Advertisements.
JOHN BRIDGE & 00,,
CIRCULAR QUAY, SUSSEX STREET, Jb
DARLING HARBOUR,
WOOL BROKERS,
Hides, Tallow, Sheepskins, Kangaroo, Bear and
Opossum Skins, Ac.
o
ATKPTIOPTEEBS.
GHFS.-A.iaXT SALESMEN,
DR. SPDEJR’S
AMERICAN DISPENSARY
3 1 Yo i* 3.51 Street.
P.O. Box 920.
Dr. Speer is a regular Graduated Physician, educated at
Harvard College, U.S. (for confirmation see New Zealand
' Gazette, January 21st, 1S86 ; also New South AVales
Gazette, April 17th, 1888). The doctor has devoted 14
years to the study of CHRONIC, NERVOUS, AND
SPECIAL DISEASES. Four of these were in the leading
hospitals of the United States, which enables him to treat
all complaints with excellent results. All applying to
him will receive his honest opinion of their complaints.
No experimenting ;no Mercury used. He will guarantee
a positive cure in every case he undertakes, or forfeit
£2OO. His reason for doing so is this—when there is not
organic disease, and nothing but an inorganic trouble, or,
in other words, a conglomeration of symptoms producing
a certain result, there is no reason why it cannot be re-
named,with the proper remedies, therefore he guarantees.
He wishes it distinctly understood that he does not claim
to perform impossibilities, or to have miraculous power
he claims only to be a skilled and successful physician
thoroughly informed in his speciality—CHßONlC and
SPECIAL DISEASES of MEN and WOMEN. People
residing at a distance can, by explaining their troubles in
detail be treated at home. The course of treatment will
not in any way interfere with their business. Examina-
tion and advice free to all. Charges moderate. H. J.
Speer, M D., 31 York-street, Sydney. Post Office Box,
No. 920. Office hours, 10 a.in. 012 a.m. 2to 4 and 7
I to 8 p.m. Sundays from 10 to 11 a.m. only.
m
a&jn.,...
pS*^
Svf'6.R^
ft*o a
mi. u&
/I:
tT;
*Sk'
:V-
-.•',;* i
m
ELECTRIC PHOTO-ENC. CO . 8 BRIDOE-ST.. SYDNEY.
The Oxford Hotel, KZirxs Street, Sydney.
H. THORPE ... ... ... Proprietor.
JONES’ SEWING MACHINES,
FOR THE BOOT AND TAILORING TRADES.
The Best Manufacturing Machines in Existence,
Now Perfected, the New No. 3 and No. 4 Machines on an Entirely new System.
stock: just
Farlelgh, KTetthelm, & Co.
TANNERS AND LEATHER MERCHANTS,
JLG x YORK x STREET, x SYDNEY.
Sole Agents for the above for New' South Wales and Queensland.
( x )
ALSO Importers of Requisites for (he ROOT MANUFACTURING TRADE in all Details includim? n AY‘ni vrnr
IMPORTED LEATHERS, &c. ; and of the following Special Lines: I'eerless G >osT Sail. l*.iJ ff Vl
marking Tanners’Tools and Materials. IW“ Indents Executed on Favourable Temfs! ’
Medical.
DR. RICHARDS.
mmms
CONSU
ES^f
Sfe^’i!tn;-TmSm
DP. RICHARDS V
C
mmi
Mil
■mwmmi
S^~
This eminent Specialist, Founder, and Chief
Surgeon of the long-established and favourably-
known Dispensary that now bears his name, re-
ceived his medical education in the leading colleges
and hospitals of Europe. He has devoted a life-
time to the study of
PRIVATE, NERVOUS, AND SKIN
DISEASES.
He has by profound research thoroughly investi-
gated their origin, traced their deadly sources and
insidious dissemination, and ascertained.the surest
and safest methods by which they may be eradi-
cated, with those widely recognised qualifications
combined with unswerving faithfulness to his
patients, he has during his practice, extending
over FORTY YEARS, attained a well-deserved
pre-eminence in their treatment. His practice
embraces d s )as;s which probably cause more un-
happiness than any other class- of troubles that
afflict mankind.
YOUNG MEN
who suffer from the results of early follies, trans-
gressions or excesses of more nature age, bladder
difficulties, a whitish or dark ropy sediment in
the water, accompanied by slight burning or
smarting sensation, Headaches, Drowsiness during
the day, circles round the eyes, Giddiness,
irregularity of the bowel l , specks before the eyes,
baffifulness, discon‘eutedness, weakness or pains
in the back, Liver or kidney complaints, dreams,
buzzing noises in the car’s and head, pimples, a
fear that something dreadful is about to happen,
weak stomach, yellow or blood-shot eyes, impure
blood, hasty, uncon tro’lable temper, hacking
cough, who cannot marry, nervorrsness in society,
wakefulness, palpitation of the heart, general
weakness, and other symptoms w'hich lead to in-
sanity and death, should consult him, for he has
mastered these difficulties. On receipt of 6d. in
stamps he will send secure from observation in a
plain wrapper, postage
FREE, A LARGE CLOTH-BOUND
BOOK.
Showing plainly how all diseases of the private or
nervous system may be cured thoroughly and per-
manently without unnecessary expence. This
book will prove a valuable companion, and even
though you be perfectly well its general inform-
tion and prescription may assist you in restoring
some poor friend to health even after his case cas
been pronounced incurable by his medical at'
tendant.
ONE POUND IS SUFFICIENT TO
SEND
for Remedies necessary for the cure of NER-
VOUS DEBILITY. Should sam require medical
treatment, as procrastination is sometimes dan-
gerous, it would be advisable for you to sit down
quietly in your chamber and write to the doctor,
detailing every experienced symptom. He will
on receipt of such a letter, write you, promptly
and courteously, a candid and straightforward
oponion of your case. If you do not think you
understand the case, send for his famous medical
j work, the price of which is but sixpence ; enclosed
( ju the volume will be found a list of carefully-pre-
pared questions, which will, in all probability,
assist you materially in describing your ailment.
Dr. Richards uses nothing but the purest remedies,
and never prescribes mercury under any circum-
stances. The moment letters are carefully per-
used and answ-ered they are destroyed by Are,
and patients may rest assured that their cases
will remain a secret between the doctor and
themselves. Dr. Richards has successfully treated
nearly 25,000 cases since coming to Australia, and
has permission from at least 10,000 persons to
show their written evidence of his success. All
communications should be addressed
Dr. RICHARDS,
7 Spring Street
(Off Pitt Street .North)
S YD DTE Y.
Be sure to .mention this paper when writing
CONSULTATION TREE.
T ILLY: “ Who kin he be, wonder—so proud an’ so ’aughty? Hevery mornin’
I meets im by axident w'en I ’ave the children hout fer er walk, an’yet
he don't take no notice o’ me. (After a pome): A terrerble thought takes
persession o' me— p'r'aps he thinks I'm married! ” —YANKEE.


BEALE <Sc CO.'S
NEW WAREHOUSE.
- -
cs
AND CHIEF OFFICES,
482* 484* & 488 Georgs Street*
SYIDIN'IE'Y'.
revolutionising
the PIA.3NTO TR-A.DE.
Messrs. Beale & Co.'s Great Enterprise.
rpHERE can be no questioning the fact that the Piano
1 Trade of these Colonies has undergone a complete
revolution during the last five years ; and to that desirable
change certainly no firm has contributed more than
Messrs. Beale and Company. During the tune high prices
continued the trade was held by a few, and hundreds o
homes now rendered attractive by the glorious influence
of music scarce could dream of becoming the ultimate
owners of the instrument which has done so much to
cheer and to refine our modern domestic life.
When Beale and Company commenced business they
had quietly gauged this condition of affairs in Austiaha,
and they began operations on a plan which could alone
work out successively in a mammoth undertaking such as
they proposed. With the Australian selling branch of
their enterprise they resolved to combine the mamifactme
of Pianos in Germany—the centre of the world s trade for
&iat instrument. But the experts sent out _here* for the
purpose of fully determinin'; what was best fitted foi
colonial requirements reported that it was essential
have a special make of piano to suit our climate a, i in-
strument as different as those made for Europe as Aus-
tralia is different from the Old World. The result of this
was the production of the staunchest Pianoforte of
modern times—the iron-framed Hapsburg. The in-
strument is regarded by the mast capable experts of
Europe as the Production of the Age, combining as
it does every feature of the highest class instrument With
the maximum of strength and durobihty and it was placed
on the market at prices much under what other and
manufacturers had previously demanded. Although it
took almost endless trouble and labour to
m-oduce the design of the “ Inimitable Hapsbuig, yet once
produced the demand grew so rapidly and has bocomeso
great, that the enterprising originators are able to out-
distance all competitors for both quality and P nce - .. J
peculiar construction of the iron frame the excelienee
of the wires, and the unique movements have, with all
other factors, eontribhted to this splendid success. No
other instrument possesses to the same degree such nch
full, clear, hell-like tones, so noticeable m the Haps-
burg,” especially in the higher grades, while strength
solidity, and imperviousness to climatic influencesi have
been so well looked to that whether on the coldest, bleak-
est spots of New Zealand or our own Monaro 1 lams, or m
the hottest of our Western and Northern areas, this
wonderful pianoforte not only maintains, but improves its
tone'and consequent value even after years of use. And
if must continue so. The genius and experience oI the
mechanical world in this branch of art are embodied in
t his one instrument-the inimitable Hapsburg —and
the sales to-day give ample evidence of the repute m which
it is held. Beale & Company have placed the
“Hapsburg” with thousands of families m Australia.
Homes in the far-distant hack blocks, and homes in the
eitv are not only enlivened but are made purer and better
through the influence of its music. The firm resolved to
do a large trade by selling these superior instru-
ments at prices and on terms demanded for the
lower grades, and success has crowned their efforts
Thev do by far the largest business, and hold the
I™t stocks in the colonies. They give their best
efforts to suit the circumstances and requirements of
every customer, and they supply for cash or on an easy
system of Time-payment which they have made peculiarly
I heir own. The correspondence department is of itself a
bilge undertaking; every mail brings its burden of letters.
From the great landowner, from the rich squatter, and
th astute merchant they come. And they came too
rinnclergymen, from doctors and solicitors frpm civil
servants, and from the struggling selector, the tradesman,
the workingman ; for fathers and mothers of every grade
and class now recognise the influence which music exeits
for good in the life of the home. And every wnter re-
ceives oourteous attention and immediate response.
Hapsburg Double Iron-framed Pianos
Possess the folio .'1 d vantages
The wires are of a very high quality and in-
tensely sensitive ; their vibrations, reverberated
by a sounding board of special construction, are
clear and bell-like, instead of the muffled, tm-
kettly, or metallic sounds so common m cheap
2nd I—Being 1 —Being double oblique the strings are of a
“ greater length and fuller tone than m the old
straight-strung Pianos.
3 r( j The action is perfect check repeater, and is
made of pencil cedar, an expensive material,
and best for resisting climatic changes.
4 t h.—All the Hapsburg Pianos are Trichord.
sth.—Thev are all seven Octaves.
6th —They have" consolidated Iron .t rames ot
great strength, thus resisting the rapid muta-
tions of a tropical climate, whereby tuning is
only required at long intervals.
7th They oppose obstacles to the inroads of cock-
roaches, silver-fish, mice, &c. r I hey have wire
gauze backs which cannot be eaten by vermin,
and other unique improvements devised for
similiar epds. , „
gth —The Felts are Clinched on the Hammers,
'instead of being fastened only by glue, as is the
case with nearly every Piano except the Haps-
have brass or nickel-faced Wrest-
’ planks, instead of the old-fashioned perishable
10th. —Rust is guarded against, wherever possible,
bv the substitution of bronze for other metals,
11th—The outer cases are handsome m design,
and of durable beautiful woods; they can lie
had in walnut, or in walnut and gold, or m
ebony and gold. .
12th.— No matter in what part of the colony you
live, we will supply you with a Hapsburg ian°
upon easy terms of payment Noclmrge will be
made for packing or for packing oases.
Hapsburg Pianos. Haydn Organs.
Photographs and Price-lists by post or fr< ra our
own travellers everywhere.
Business Announcements,
Tlie Combination Buggy
Is the latest thing on wheels, and can be used as a
ZBUG-CGOT, DOG CAST, OE CABBIAGB.
seat Buggy with ample room for two people
As a one
As a Dos Cart to carry fom
\
As a two seated Buggy to carry four.
A most useful and valuable vehicle for a variety of purposes.
WILLIAM FLEMING, 22 A 24 Clarence St., Sydney.
See Signature in
Blue Ink across
the Label thus:—
9
9
TJSE
liebig COMPANY'S
EXTRACT OF MEAT
«■
for Beef Tea, Soups and Entrees
Anglo Scandinaviaii
Cold Medal
Acknowledged
The Best
Business Announcements.
ITALIAN MARBLE QUARRIES.
Slabs, Tables, Blocks, and Monuments,
STAFFORDSHIRE ENCAUSTIC TILERIES.
FLOORING TILES, FROM 3s. PER YARD.
Sole Agents for Australasian Colonies,
GRONDONA & COMPANY, LIMITED,
64 King Street, Melbourne.
BOOK of NATURE and Illustrated
Matrimonial Guide,— planation of the struc-
ture and uses of the organs of life and generation in man
and woman, intended especially for the married, or those
intending to marry, and who conscientiously and honestly
desire to inform themselves upon the intent and nature
of marriage and its duties, to which is added A COMPLETE
MEDICAL TREATISE upon all diseases of the generative
organs, whether resulting from infection or sexual excesses
and abuse, with much other valuable and highly important
information, illustrated with more than fifty engravings,
by M. Lafayette Byrn, M.D. Price 3s. (id., post 4s.
The Fruits of Philosophy or Private Companion for
Married Pi&ple, post Is. 2d. Mrs. Besant’s Law of Popula-
tion, Is., pfilt Is. 2d. Wonderful Song Book, extra large,
Is. 6d. Decameron Boccaccio, 2s. Aristotle, complete,
3s. Od., post 4s. Maria Monk, Is. 6d., post Is. 9d. New
complete Fortune Teller, 2s.
“The Matron's Manual of Midwifery,” the book every
married woman needs ; price 75., posted 7s. 6d.
“ Nigger Stump Speeches and Comic Pattern,” price 6d.
“The Male Generative Organs,” their use and abuse
with many illustrations and coloured plates; price 75.,
post 7s. fid.
The arts of Boxing, Swimming and Gymnastics made
easy enabling any one to become an expert Boxer and
Athlete, illustrated with fifty engravings, price Is., post
free Agent for London Reynolds, Referee, Dispatch,
Dublin Freeman, Glasgow Mail. Advanced, and Republican
literature on sale.
Sir Robert Bear,
Radical Book Stores,
IQM PARK STREET, SYDNEY.
OOlEMamehsohs
E.U CALY PTE. OIL-va.
i
'm
Vii-rnnY Ointment*
THE TREE OF LIFE .
The only pure Eucalypte In the World.
AW A.RDED Gold Medal Adelaide Jubilee
Exhibition. First Prize Great Centennial
Exhibition, Sydney. The only known CURE for
Asthma, Bronchitis, Consumption, Pleurisy,
Colds, Coughs, and all affections of the Chest and
Lungs; also, for Gout. Rheumatism, Sciatica,
etc. Our VICTORY OINTMENT stands with-
out a rival for Bad Legs, Bad Breasts, Cancers,
Tumours, and skin diseases of all kinds. Also,
manufacturers of the Eucalypte Pills, Eucalypte
Hair Restorer, Eucalypte Soap, and our world-
famed Eucalypte Honey is the best preparation
before the public for young Children and aged
people. Also, makers of the Eucalypte Lozenges
for the Voice. Manufactory— Cootamondra.
Sydney Wholesale Depot—2sl Elizabeth Street
Posted to any part of the Colonies. Sold Every-
where. Beware of Imitations.
CARLSBAD
NATURAL MINERAL WATERS
are now imported in bottles an< * used *SJS?d
ment of CHRONIC GASTRIC CATARRH, HYPER-
CEMIA of the LIVER, GALL STONES, CHRONIC
CONSTIPATION, DIABETES, RENAL CALCULI,
GOUT, and diseases of the spleen arising from
residence in the tropics or malarious districts.
THE NATURAL
CARLSBAD SPRUDEL-SALT
DJUREyVc.bat as wiIpT3BU!MT*t should Shaken
BEFORE BREAKFAST, In doses of from 1 to 2 tea-
spoonfuls, dissolved In water. To lncrease the
APERIENT action of the Carlsbad Mineral Water,
a teaspoonful of the Balt, previously dissolved
in water should be added.
SOLE CONSIGNEES for the U.K. and the Colonies
INGRAM S ROYLB, 82, Farrlngdon St., London,
And of all Chemists throughout the World.
Natural Mineral Waters of
(STATE
VICHY
SPRINGS.)
GRANDE-GRILLE-
For Affections of the
Liver, Biliary Organs^&c.
CELESTINS.
For the Kidneys, Gravel, Gout
Rheumatism, Diabetes, &C«
HOPITAL. —For Stomach Complaints.
HADTBRIYE. — An excellent Table W atbß*
OF ALL CHEMIST* IN AUSTRALASIA.
R?&0
¥(
if
SOLO
\\
V
EVERYTHERE^
ŕ


READ THIS ! Two Pounds’ (£2) worth of these preparations sent free to any part of the colony.
Armstrong’s Citron Saline, for cooling and purifying the
blood. An aperient effervescing salt. 2s; 18s do/..
Armstrong’s Blood Purifier or Anti-Scorbutic—a valuable
remedy where the blood has "become vitiated through
residence in hot climates, with usual consequences of
bad water, deficient vegetable diet. 2s; 18s doz.
Armstrong’s Compound Sarsaparilla with Dandelion, lodide
of Potash, &c., for all ini purities of the blood. 2s; 20sdoz.
Armstrong’s Eye Lotion for Blight and other inflammatory
affections of the eyes. The proprietor has received
numerous testimonials for cures effected by this lotion
when all other means had failed. Is; 8s doz.
Armstrong’s Sugar-coated Anti-bilious Pills. An infallible
remedy in cases of indigestion and other complaints
arising from an inactive liver. Is; 8s doz.
Armstrong's Diarrhoea Mixtures gives instant relief in this
troublesome complaint. 2s; 18s doz.
Armstrong’s Gout and Rheumatic Mixture. For gout,
rheumatism, sciatica, &c., &c. 3s (id ; 36s doz.
Armstrong’s Cough Elixir. An immediate cure for colds,
coughs, influenza, &c. 2s; 18s doz.
Armstrong’s Podophyllin Pills, for liver complaints, im-
purities of the blood, &c. Is; 8s doz.
Armstrong’s Phosphorous Pills, for Nervous and General
Debility, &c. Is; ,8s doz.
Armstrong’s Anodyne Liniment (or Pain Paint) for bruises,
sprains, rheumatic pains, &o. 2s; ISs doz.
Armstrong’s Cough Balsam, for chronic pulmonary affec-
tions and lung diseases. 2s; 18s doz.
Armstrong’s Golden Eye Ointment, for blight and all
diseases of the eyes. Is (id; 13s doz.
Armstrong’s celebrated Ointment for Piles. 2s;
18s doz.
Armstrong’s Iron and Quinine Tonic, for loss of appetite,
Nervousness, General &o. 2s.
Armstrong’s 15(1 Mixture for discharges. 3s (id.
Armstrong’s Pepsine Bismuth and Nux ''Vomica, for
chronic indigestion. 3s Od &ssOd ; 30s & 58s doz.
Armstrong's Quinine Wine. A most reliable brain and
nerve tonic. 2s*Cd; 20s doz.
Armstrong’s Podophyllin Seidlitz Powders. A mild and
pleasant aperient., Is Cd; 15s doz. ■
Armstrong’s “ Arabian Ointment.” For healing all sores,
old wounds, burns, etc. (in pots). Is; 8s doz.
Armstrong’s Corn Paint and Solvent, for painlessly
removing corns, bunions, warts, &c. Is; Ss doz.
Armstrong’s Toothache Drops and Carbolic Nervine, for
immediate cure of toothache. Is; 8s doz.
Armstrong’s Resin, Carbolic, Zinc, Blue, White and Red
Percipitate Ointments (in boxes). Od ;5s doz.
Armstrong’s Dandruff Pomade, for eradicating scurf, dan-
druff, &c., from the hair. Is ;8s doz.
Armstrong’s Arabian Hair Renewer, for restoring grey
* hair to its natural colour. Is Od ; 12s doz.
Armstrong’s Arabian Insect Powder. 9d ; (is doz.
Armstrong’s Indelible Ink, for writing on linen, silk, and
muslin. Is; 8s per doz.
Armstrong’s kilns Juice and Glycerine. A valuable
preparation for the hair. Is <fc 2s ;8s & 18s doz,
Armstrong’s Transparent Cement (Cohesuline) for china,
glass, wood, leather, &c. 6d &Is ; 5s &8s doz.
Armstrong’s Carbolic Tooth Powder antiseptic. Is; Ss doz.
Armstrong’s Disinfectant, Carholised Powder (in tins),
for drains, etc. 9d &Is (Jd ; Cs Cd & 12s doz.
Armstrong’s Sore Back Ointment for horses. 2s; & 18s doz,
Armstrong’s Carbolic Dressing, for cuts and wounds
among stock. Is &Is (id ; 8s & IGs doz.
Armstrong’s Blistering Ointment the best remedy for
splints, curbs, etc. Is (id ; 13s doz.
Armstrong’s Worm and Condition Powders, for horses
(in tins), (id &Is ; 5s &8s doz.
Armstrong’s Cold Paint, Copper, Silver and Green Bronzes,
for decorating your home ornaments, statuary, Sic.
ail ready mixed, (id ; 8s doz.
INVENTED, MANUFACTURED and SOLD ONLY by H. C. ARMSTRONG, George Street NORTH (Near Circular Quay), SYDNEY.
Trusses, Belts, Supports, Elastic Stockings, Knee Caps, etc., at English Wholesale Cost. The Lanjest Stock in Sydney.
FOR DRUGS, CHEMICALS, PATENT MEDICINES and DRUGGISTS’ SUNDRIES, SEND FOR SPECIAL PRICE LIST (POSTED FREE).
LOONG SHAN TEA HOUSE
NOW OPEN.
Quong Tart & Co.’s
a
u
o
N
G
T
A
£t
T
&
C
O
M
P
A
N
Y
EXTENSIVE NEW PREMISES
(Nearly opposite Theatre Royal).
FIRST-CLASS GRILLS,
As well as all kinds of Refreshments, may
be obtained from 7.30 a.m. to 11.30 p.m.
CUP OF DELICIOUS TEA.
ICED DRINKS OF ALL KINDS, &e.
The rooms are splendidly furnished and
fitted up. In addition to the large and
well - appointed Refreshment Rooms,
gentlern n will find on the Second Floor
Commodious and Comfortable Smoking
and Conversation Rooms, furnished with
Chess, Draughts, &c., &o.
TO THE LADIES.
On the First Floor will be found Nice
Private Room for Ladies, convenient for
Writing, Reading, &c., also Retiring
Rooms and Lavatory, with both Lot and
cold water laid on. Inspection Invited.
Finest Teas imported—Packets Jib. and
upwards supplied. Orders promptly at-
tended to.
Q
U
O
N
G
T
A
R
T
&
C
O
M
P
A
N
Y
137 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
22
MANUf*CTUft£R3
ft mrontERs or '
■ ■ j I* — — - - - ■ - ■ * M
HATS CAPS At
438 CEORCE S r
3YDNEY %
itfioosife LatsetCerf
A
f/
%
Branch :
6 7 8 GEORG E STREET,
BRICKFIELD HILL,
(Next to Craig and Aitken.)
tglKßLltyf
lBOl *
BARRY’S
Tricopberous
THEHAIR
An elegant dress
ing. exquisitely per
fumed, removes all
impurities from the
r
«calp, prevents baldness and gray hair, and
causes the hair to grow Thick, Soft and
Beautiful. Infallible for curing eruptions
of the skin, diseases of the glands, muscles
and integuments, and relieving cuts, burns,
bruises, sprains, &c.
Barry’s Pearl Cream
Imparts to the darkest skin a clear, natural
white, tinged with the faintest rose-blush
It speedily removes wrinkles, freckles, sun
burn and tan, and mantles the faded cheek
with youthful bloom and beauty,
Barry’s Hair Dye.
Put up in two forms, with and without
a preparation Without the preparation,
gradually colors the hair any shade desired,
from a light brown to a black With the
preparation, instantly colors the hair a na
tural jet black the moment it is applied.
Caution- None of these preparations geo
uine without the trade mark of Bakclat
& Co , New York, affixed to each bottle
■
GB. MODINI, Gunmaker, informs his Customers
■ and the Public in general that lie has the largest
assortment of Firearms in the colony. Qualities and prices
to defy competition. Agent for the following celebrated
gunmakersJ. Purdey & Sons, Cii. Boswell,' John Rigby
and Co., Joseph Lang & Sons, Cii. Osborne & Co., Thomas
Bland & Son. A large assortment of various othermakers
always on hand, viz., \V. W. Greener, Scott, Webley,
Hollis & Sons, Riley and Cashmore. All goods will be
, faithfully guaranteed at 602 George-street, Sydney.
* Price list on application.
The LONDON & SYDNEY TEA COMPANY,
IMPORTERS OF HIGH-CLASS TEAS,
409 K E 3NT T STREET, SYDKTEY.
Packed in 12, 20, and 40 lb C addies
@ Is. 6d., Is. 9d., and 2s. per It).
m
’■ZC
Tl.
r
r
r
r
Delivered free to any Railway Station
or Port in New South Wales.
‘ No. John ;no more Tea from you. I buy now from the London and Sydney Tea Company’.”
Com
o
PL
X
ROWLANDS’
KALYDOR.
An emollient milk for beautifying the complexion, and
warranted free from lead or grea-e. It removes Freckles,
Tan, Sunburn, fieriness and Roughness of the Sk'ii; is
most cp ling and refreshing to the face i>i hot weather,
and produces soft, fair arid delicate skin. N o lady should
be without it.
ROWLANDS’
MACASSAR OIL
Prevents hair falling off or turning grey, and is also sold
in a Golden Co’our.
ROWLANDS’
ODONTO
Whitens the teeth, prevents decay, and sweetens the
breath.
ROWLANDS’ EUKONIA, a pure Toilet Powder in Three
Tints — White, Rose, and Cream. Ask Chemits and Perfumers for HOWLANDS’ Articles,
of 20, Hatton Garden, London, England.
THE
Wolseley Sheep-Shearing* Machine.
PASTORALISTS are notified that, to avoid disappointment,
no time should be lost in Booking Orders for next Season.
Agents: J. H. GfEDDES & CO.,
19 PHILLIP STREET, SYDNEY.
ALLAN A. MARSHALL Sc CO.,
Engineers, Coppersmiths, Brass and Bell Founders,
Finishers, Plumbers, Ship & General Smiths,
Gasfitters, Art & Medieval, Metal Workers
ROLLER SKATES (any make) with RRASS or «001»K\ WHEELS.
Verity’s Gas Fires, Heaters and Ventilators at greatly Reduced Prices —11,000 Fire* a 1 1 y : n use.
Importers and Manufacturers of Diving Gear, Yacht and Boat Work of every description m
Iron or Brass, Ships’ Single and Double Action Valve Closets, Fire Hydrants, Hose and ail appliances.
Bon Accord Works, 9 Macquarie Place, Sydney.
THE
“PLUM”
RAZOR.
th
’JIOZVW
..lAimd
aril
WE recommend gentlemen who shave themselves to try the “ PLUM ” RAZOR. It is purely
Hollow Ground and NEVER requires Grinding and we guarantee each Razor for two
years. Set ready for use. Price, single Razor, 10s. Gd.’; or a pair of Razors, Black Handles, in
tivng Leather Case, £1 Is. In Ivory, single Razor, 15s. Pair in case, 30s. Send P. 0.0. Every
Razor sent by. Registered Post. „
CRAIG & AITKEN,
“POTOSI” HAIRDRESSING SALOON,
680 GEORGE STREET S V ZD 3ST !E3 IT.
A. BOWMAN’S
LONDON MADE
Porpoise Hide Boots
Are Reduced horn 30s. to 21s.
249 PITT ST., SYDNEY, Hoar Tattemll's,
Porpoise Hide Wear; Twice as lion?
as any oilier Leather.
They are noted all over London,
Birmingham and Liverpool.
LrOruioii p^a.slxioxxß,
AND
Fresh Goods Every Fortnight.
Trailc Supplied Wholesale at a Great Advantage.
- THE—
Art Furnishing' Warehouse.
BEARD, WATSON & CO.,
361 George Street, SYDNEY,
Direct attention; to their Magnificent Stock oi
Carpets, Floorcloths, Linoleums,
And other Floor Coverings, in the
NEWEST DESIGNS A AIM'ISTK < 01.08 KINGS,
Art Decorations, Upholstery Work and
Window Draping a Speciality.
All Orders executed hg a Staff of Experienced
Workmen, and. Special Attention given to the raven-
ing out of Customers' wishes with pmnctua’ity aiui
promptitude.
CHaff! CHa.ff! I
ANOTHER NEW DEPARTURE.
The CITY PRODUCE COMPANY
Having erected the most complete and extensive
Chaff-cutting Plant in New South Wales, are in v
position to supply a
Single Rag of thalf at Wholesale I*rices
for EA»II.
Oaten Chaff, 4/6 pei’ cwt.'i
Mixed 3/6 per cwt. I
Oaten ,, 4/6 per cwt. |
Mixed ,, 3 6 per cwt. J
Quality
Guaranteed.
Free delivery within the city. Horse-feed of all
descriptions of best quality at lowest prices for
Cash. One trial only is requested. We guarantee
to give satisfaction.
CITY PRODUCE CO.,
Hay Street, Haymarket, SYDNEY.
DISPENSABLE JPOR RABIES
AND ALL PERSONS
With a Delicate SiLIH
If you wish to Protect yourself against CIIA PPETi
UJLNDS and CHALKED SKIN, and tv keep YOU it
COMPLEX lON in good condition during the whoit
year use
s
MO U SON
(Savon au heurre do Cae.au.)
This celebrated Soap consist* chiefly of Cor m Cutter. (ex-
tracted in the. manufacture of Chocolate) which i* THE
MILDEST FAT l\ VO IT A, and posses, e* a wonderfully
healing and softening influence upon, the Skin. The
'beneficent properties of this product make themselves
apparent hy the delicious creamy iather it produces,
rendering even the coarsest SKIM AS SOFT ■AS
VEL VET.
Cocoa' Butter Soap is a real skin-beautifier, and a balm to
young and old alike.
MOUSON & CO., PERFUMERS & TOIT.ET SOAP MANUFACTURER#,
FRANKFORT-ON -Til E MAINE.
LONDON: 32 &88 lIAINSKLU-ST., E,C- PA RIS 5 29. RUE RABZIERILE
Full guarantee for perfect purify is offered by the
sole Manufacturers, Mouses & Co.
JULIUS GOLDSCHMIDT & C 0„
231 OLARENCE-ST., SYDNEY,
SOLE AGENTS FOR AFSTKALASIA


Land at Perth, W.A., the best investment
Plans from Intercolonial Investment Co., Ltd.,
96 Bathurst-street, Sydney.
Everybody should use Pemell’s latest best Snow-white
Patent Roller Flour. It is the greatest success of the age.
—THE—
Fresh Food & |ce Co.,
SOOTED,
harbour street.
SYDNEY,
Are evidently determined to go ahead. They are
now supplying Customers who take a Quart of
Milk and Over per Day at
THREEPENCE PER QUART!
This appears very wonderful, but it is
quite true.
py Weekly Accounts.
WOOL. WOOL.
THE NEW ZEALAND
Loan & Mercantile Agency
COMPANY, LIMITED.
BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Capital, £4,500,000 ... Reserve, £270,000
Wool Season* 1888~89*
Regular Sales of Wool Held Throughout the
Season.
rpHE greatest care bestowed on the Valuation and the
JL Displaying and Protecting all Wools entrusted to
the Company for sale, whether from large or small clips.
fST" Growers Advised and Consulted with before Sales
of their Clips are made.
t.irkbat. Cash Advances, where desired, on Wool lieu
of Ensuing Clip, and on Wool and other Produce, whether
lor sale in Sydney or shipment to London.
Auction Sales of Sheep Skins, Marsupial
Skins, Hides, Tallow, &0., Held Regularly.
py Every Infcn-mation Supplied on Application.
G. S. CAMPBELL, Manager.
SYDNEY WOOL & GRAIN WAREHOUSES
Bridge and Lorrus Streets
Business Announcements.
—FALLON’S—
CELEBRATED
ALBURY WINES.
Recommended by the Medical Faculty.
JJDWIN G. GOBBTZ,
Stock and Share Broker,
IFXUSr.A.IErCI.A.IIL
BRISBANE.
Member of the Brisbane Stock Exchange.
JONG'S IMPERIAL HOTEL
TOOWOOMBA, QUEENSLAND.
Acknowledged the Best Hotel on the Darling
Downs. First-class Accommodation.
Private Suites First Class Sample Rooms.
Conveyance Meets Every Train.
JOHN LONS - ■ Late of New Zealand.
DA.NT. SULLIVAN
(Late of Brisbane Caf6),
Has bought MATTERSON’S HOTEL, opposite
Lassetter s, George-street.
Extensive alterations and improvements just
completed. Recollect DAN’S OLD REBUTA
TION for the best brands in the market.
DAN. SULLIVAN
Has a nice cold collation with salad, between one
and two o’clock everyday.
Royal hotel.
Esplanade,
ST. KILDA. VICTORIA,
Facing Beach, close to Pier and Baths. Ten
minutes from Station.
H. MOONEY - - - ■ Proprietor.
LIVERY LETTING STABLES ATTACHED.
Telephone GB2.
First-class Accommodation for Visitors
smoke: nothing but
PIPES.
ŕ
PIPES.
THE BEST IN THE WORLD,
Wholesale Agents :
JULIUS GOLDSCHMIDT & CO.
231 Clarence Street.
First Prize MELBOURNE EXHIBITION.
J.“ LU dTwTc FT s o”h s,
Manufacturers and Importers of
Superior Oak-Tanned Leather Belting,
And every description of
Leather goods for Machine and Engineering Purposes
Hydraulic
Leathers.
r
Tangye Pump
Leathers.
All Seeds bearing the above Trade Mark are warranted to
give satisfaction, or may be returned at our expense.
Office and Factory: -163 Clarence-St., Sydney.
Between King and "Market Streets.
TO ADVERTISERS.
We undertake the advertising of large business
houses —filing every paper advertised in, checking
appearances, and watching the interests of our
clients. We can save you money, lime and
anxielv. Write for our pamphlet “ How to
Advertise, and Why.” P. T. WIMBLE & CO.,
Newspaper Advertising Bureau, Basement A.J.S.
Bank, 369,371 & 373George-st.,Sydney. Estimates
given for any number of papers by return mail.
SYDNEY TAKES THE LEAD.
The Sydney Ladies’ and Gentlemen’s
Hairdresssing Palace
AND
TOILETTE nEQUISITES,
02 KIKTG STREET.
(Directly opposite the Arcade),
NOW OPEN.
The Public Verdict—A long-felt want filled,
an Establishment that Sydney can be proud of.
No Expense has been spared in fitting up this
Establishment for the convenience and comfort of
its patrons.
A large staff of the very best Gentlemen Work-
men are employed in the Ladies’ and Gentlemen’s
Hairdressing Rooms, and all work is guaranteed.
A SELECT STOCK OF
Gentlemen’s Mercery, Perfumery*
Ladies’and Gentlemen’s Toilet Requisites.
Cigars, Cigarettes, Tobacco, &c-,
Sold at the Lowest Cash Prices.
LAUNDRY AGENCY, &c., &c.
Sydney and Melbourne Daily and Weekly Papers
kept on File.
All Ladies and Gentlemen are invited to visit
and inspect this establishment, and be convinced
that it is not equalled in the Southern Hemisphere.
HOURS;
From 8.30 a.m. to 7 p.m. SATURDAYS,!) p.m.
Medical
J
- • . ••
L
=x —■
“ Cod Bless the Duke of Argyle”
The most "distressing forms of itching and inflam-
matory diseases of tha.skin and scalp are instantly
relieved and permanently cured by the Cuticdea
Remedies, when all others fail.
Cuticura, the Great Skin Cure, and Cuticura
Boap, an exquisite Skin Bcautiflcr, prepared fiom
it, externally, and Cuticura Resolvent, the new
Blood Purifier, internally, cure every form of tor-
turing, disfiguring, itching, scaly and pimply dis-
eases of the skin, scalp and blood, with loss of
hair, from infancy to old age.
I have been cured of a most unbearable itching
skin disease by the Cuticura Remedies. They
have enabled me to escape years of suffering.
You may use my name as a reference, and any one
who wants to know about my case may write me,
inclosing stamp. W. B. BROOKS,
47 Grove Street, Providence, R. I.
I am a canvasser, and one year ago I was badly
afflicted with salt rheum, so_ that I was unable to
walk. I tried the Cuticura Remedies, and they
e. tirely cured me. F. E. PERRY, Rome, N. P.
Sold everywhere. Price, CUTICURA, 50c , Soap,
25c.; Resolvent, $l. Prepared by the Potter
Drug and Chemical Co., Boston, Mass.
Send for** How to Cure Skin Tfiseases, 64
pages, 50 illustrations, and 100 testimonials.
PIM
PLES, blackheads, red, rough, chapped and
| oily skin prevented by Cuticura bOAP.
Two years ago I was attacked with eczema. I
cannot tell you what I suffered. I was the most for-
lorn spectacle you ever saw. Charles Kennedy, of
this place, showed me your pamphlet on skin dis-
eases, and among them I found the description
suitable to my case. I bought the Cuticuba
Remedies. I took seven bottles, with the Chti-
CURA and Soap, and the result is a permanent
cure. I thought I would wait and see if it would
come back, but it has proved all you said it would
do, so I will say God bless you and yours.
THOS. L. GRAY, Leavertown, Ohio.
I, John J. Case, D. D. S., having practised den-
tistry in this country for thirty-five years, and being
well known to thousands hereabouts, with a view
to help any who are afflicted as I have been for the
past twelve years, testify that the Cuticuba Rem-
edies cured me of Psoriasis, or Scaly Skin, in
eight days, after the doctors with whom I had con-
sulted gave me no help or encouragement.
Newton, N. J. JOHN J. CASE, D. D. 8.
The Cuticuba Remedies have permanently
cured me of dandruff and facial eruptions when all
other remedies had failed. For nine months my
head has been entirely free from the slightest sign#
of dandruff, and ray skin is as clear as when I was
a boy. LOU THOMPSON, New Britain, Conn,
HANDS
Soft, white, and free from chaps and
redness, by using Cuticura Soap.
Address :
R. TOWNS & CO., SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Business Announcements.
Federated. Squatters
—AND—
Farmers’ Co-Operative Association of Australasia, Limited,
CXZK.OTJILJAie, Q,TJ-A/3T, SITXJXnTEIT .
WOOL and PRODUCE BROKERS, STOCK and STATION AGENTS.
Advances Made and Deposits Received at Current Rates. Correspondence Invited.
nr.'
mV*
IHPS
rr. |
Nli
Pili* 1
(.'III'
iKw
i«KHS
V.
in
Mu
m
iiiilllU/
lining
Mmy
Guinness’ Extra Stout,
FIRST QUALITY.
Bass’ Pale Ale,
FIRST QUALITY.
Sole Purveyors to the
Colonial & Indian Exhibition, London.
(By Special Appointment.)
Wholesale Agents; Balchin, Johnston & Co., Sydney.
M. B.
~R XT Gr Xj IE
FOSTER
BRAIsTD
&
-)(-
SONS,
ALE
LONDON,
-A-XsTID
STOTJT.
PUBLIC NOTICE.
It having come to our knowledge that ALE and STOUT of very inferior quality, in bottles with
s kill fullv forced labels have lately been palmed off on the public,
We desire to warn our friends of the fact, and to state that all corks as well as capsules of the
bottles shipped by Messrs. M. B. FOSTER & SONS to this colony bear their name and address.
Any information respecting Bottled Beer purporting to be “Foster’s Bogle Brand offered
for sale without these corks and capsules will be esteemed by the undersigned, who have mstroo*
tions to bring to justice the perpetrators of the frauds.
A Liberal Reward will he given for information leading to conviction of the offenders.
){
BA.LCHIW, JOUKTSTOKT & CO., Sydney,
Agents eor Messrs, M. B. Foster & Sons.
pir for TCnpper’a Elberfeld. Lager BwoF
(Specially Brewed for Australia). Absolutely Free from Sediment,
THOMAS M'CREERY:
MEDICAL HERBALIST,
83 Oxford Street, i doors above Riley Street.
Private Diseases of Both Sexes a Speciality.
Consultations Gratis. Charges very Moderate.
A Trial Solicited.
A SPEEDY CURE GUARANTEED.
RICHMOND FAMILY HOTEL*
POKII.AM). VICTORIA.
John Shelton - Proprietor.
Jinks and his Sister.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Jinks was a stable-boy, born at Newmarket, Vic-
toria. Through early associations he became a
jockey. “ Tiny Jinks ”he was usually called, for
six stone seven of humanity couldn’t be called
big.
As to relations, Jinks had in all father, mother,
a sister and a brother. The brother was a thief
and the sister was “flash.” The mother came
originally from Pentonville Prison, and the father
from Van Diemen’s Land.
Miss Jinks was “on” in the pantomime, and
the unusual splendour which is characteristic of
“the Firm,” particularly at Christmas-time, en-
abled her to shine in silken raiment and tights.
She had a lover—his name, Marchmont Moses
Snooks ; had he had a card “ Romeo Lane ” would
have been a truthful adjunct. In the new-papers
he called himself the “ Ruby King’’—probably
apeing poor old Dom Pedro—but he might, with
greater regard for veracity, have been called “The
Greasy Loafer. ” !
Snooks wanted Miss Jinks to get the little
fellow to “stiffen” a horse and “Little Jinks”
had refused. One night—Jinks slept in the stable,
being a hybrid half-jockey, half stable-boy—a
flashily-dressed man in a light ulster, and a gaily-
dressed woman with light hair, might have been
seen taking tickets at Spencer-street for New-
market.
The stable-boys in Brown’s stable were sleeping.
Soundly also slept Jinks within three feet of one
■of the greatest horses o’ the day.
His sister came to the stable-door and knocked,
and the “ Greasy Loafer ” stood near with a
powder in his pocket and waited.
“ Yer father’s dead, Bones!” sang out Miss
Jinks.
The little fellow opened the door. Immediately
the light ulster and the light-haired syren made a
dash into the box.
“ Help, help ! ” cried little Jinks.
“ None of that you —— bag of bones ! ” said
the Loafer, brushing the lad on one side.
“Help! Help!”
Suddenly lights glimmered through the place,
and the pair of villains were glad to get away.
“ What’s the matter Bones ?” quoth his fellow-
stable-boys.
“Must have been dreamin’,” he replied,
“ What’s the matter with your hand ?”
“Scratched it just now.”
Next day they took him to the Four
fingers had to come off. In the scuffle his hand
had got jammed in the door.
But he never told more than “ Must have been
dreamin’. ”
Picturesque yam from South America . —
Captain Thompson, of the schooner Challenger, lately-
visited the battlefield of Tarapaca, where the Chilians and
Peruvians met and fought on November 17, 1879, and the
latter, after losing 4000 men, were forced to retreat, leav-
ing their dead unburied. “ In any other country,” the
■Captain says, “ these unburied corpses would have been
reduced in a few weeks to skeletons by wild animals or the
elements, but for over 100 miles on either side of the
battleground there is not a spear of grass. There are
.consequently no wild animals, and the bodies remained
undisturbed' by them. The soil, too, is strongly impreg-
nated with nitrate of soda, and this, in connection with
the hot dry atmosphere, has converted men and horses
into perfect mummies. Seen on a bright moonlight night,
as I first saw it, the battle appears as if fought but a day
■ or two ago, the colours of the uniforms being still bright,
and the steel of the weapons untarnished.”


175
|(Late Gunsler’s Cafe) y *■ *
-Pitt [Stjreet, Sydney,
WISH their fapmer Patrons and the Public Generally to know that their Saloons have been Entirely Reorganised, and shall be glad if they will give
tyieit new cusine a trial.
JAMES 0- MAEQUAND, Manager-
"Will Tbe Piilblislied Shortly,
“A GOLDEN SHANTY
■ ■
Australian Tales and Sketches in Prose and Verse
By ‘Bulletin’ Writers. ”
A Selection from the brightest of the original literary matter which has made The Bulletin world-famous.
Price, Is. ; if posted, 3d. extra.
Public Companies.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA.
THE COMING COLONY!
Everyone should Invest a Few Pounds in Land
in
PS3R.TH,
The CAPITAL CITY OF WESTERN AUSTRALIA.
Compared with other Australian Cities the Price
is Very Low.
The Coal, Gold and Tin Mines are attracting
much enterprise and capital to the Colony.
CITY BUILDTO ALLOTMENTS,
From £1 per Foot.
BUILDING- SITES adjoining the CITY
From £lO Facb.
Small Deposit. Easy Terms. Discount for Cash.
Each Lot guaranteed good Building Land.
Land in Perth will increase greatly in value during
the next few years.
INQUIRY COSTS NOTHING.
Pamphlets, Marked Plans, and full information
posted to any address on application to
The Intercolonial Investment Co., Limits!
96 Bathurst Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
W. J. DOUGLAS, Manager.
—THE—
FEDERAL REVERSIONARY INVESTMENT
AND
FINANCIAL COMPANY, LIMITED.
(Incorporated Under Companies’ Act, 187 U
CAPITAL .. .. £200,000.
Sydney Office: .... 301 PITT STREET
A GENCIES in London and throughout Australia.
■£*- Immediate advances granted. Bills discounted daily.
Communications from the country promptly attended to.
The following are the rates of interest allowed on Fixed
Deposits:—3 years, 10 per cent. ; 12 months, 9 per cent. ;
6 months, 8 per cent. ; 3 months, 7 per cent. By order
of the Board of Directors.
A. W. Miller, Manager
=CLYDE=
SMELTM, GRUSHINS and CHLORINATION
WORKS,
CLYDE, near GEANYILLE,
New South Wales.
Lead, and Silver Ores.
ALSO,
Gold Concentrates,
Purchased in any quantity.
Miners and others are invited to send Small or
Large Parcels of Ore to the above Works, which,
on being assayed, Cash Returns will be at once
remitted.
Tariff of Charges forwarded on application to
the Secretary at the Works, Clyde.
The British ami New South Wales Investment
and Financial Co., Limited.
Incorporated under the Companies’ Act, 1874.
Capital, £250,000.
Sydney Office: 246 PITT STREET.
BILLS DISCOUNTED and Immediate Advances granted
Daily. Country communications promptly attended
to. The following Kates of Interest are allowed for Fixed
Deposits:—
3 Years .... 10 per cent.
12 Months .... .... 9 per cent.
6 Months .... 8 per cent.
3 Months 7 per cent.
With a Guaranteed Bonus on Renewals of Twelve Months
and over.
By order of the Board.
W. M'DONALD, Manager.
Business Announcements.
—THE—
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL
FIRE
Insurance Society.
Established ... ... 1872,
Bonuses
OP
20 per cent. Paid Annually
since 1873.
Head Office
—THE
Oldest Mutual Fire Office
in Australia.
Claims promptly and liberally
settled. Fifteen days’ grace
allowed for Renewal of Policies.
Lowest Current Rates charged.
Hon. George Thornton, M.L.C.,
Chairman.
Head Office:
Corner Pitt Sc King Streets,
SYDNEY.
Walter Church ... Manager.
S ID
FXmongsSs3 I
H A NTS
=1
C 3
CD
_
1
■
ROBERITB & CO.,
-w HiOLESALE-
Ironmongers* Importers* Iron and Machinery Merchants*
HAY AND EN GIN
Head Office: 85 Gr,
E STREETS SYDNEY,
afcecliurcli Street, London, E.C.
IMPORTERS OF
Railway Si Bridge Contractors’
Bombers'
Squatters’
Requirements
J “
Great : Variety.
IMPORTERS OF
Engineers’ and Blacksmiths'
Couchbuilders’
Mining
AGENTS FOR:
Korting’s Gas Engines—The best and ciieapi
Braddock’s Water and Gas Meters and Gas Lamps,
Howe’s Platform and Counti
st yet made. Automatic self-governing, thus saving cost of gas.
Beading Iron Works Universal (Split) Pulley Wheels.
,er Weighing Machines and Weighbridges.'
Cities' Life Assurance Company,
LIMITED.
Capital ... £200,000.
Head Office ;
21 Ca.stleiea.gh Sydney,
With Branches and Agencies throughout the Colonies.
3NTci'w Business:
1887 There were Issued 19,557 Policies.
1888 „ „ „ 34,684
1889 up to 38th October 48,833 „
These figures show the wonderful progress of the
Company and the high esteem placed upon its
liberal dealings by the public.
CLAIMS PAID
Immediately on Proof of Death.
JAMES P. GARY AN, \
WM. ALEX. SMITH, /
Managing Director.
Secretary.
Palls Br idge Family Hotel,
Falls Bridge, Melbourne.
%
This magnificent Hotel, containing 50 Double
and Single Rooms, is splendidly furnished and
perfectly ventilated.
Hot and Cold Plunge and Shower Baths.
Electric Bells. Telephone 1217. Billiards, &c.
Terms Strictly Moderate.
J. H. DURRANI Manager.
Late of the South Australian Club Hotel, Adelaide.
The AUSTEALIAN MEECANTILE LOAN and
GrAUEANTEE COMPANY, Limited.
Head Office -
Sydney: Corner of Market & York Streets.
Melbourne Branch: 283 Collins-street Bast.
Brisbane Branch; Corner Edward and Elizabeth Street*.
Newcastle Branch: 37 Hunter Street.
The Company grant immediate advances upon Deeds of
Land, Bills of Lading, Merchandise, Storage and Bond
Certificates, and all classes of mercantile and other approved
securities, for fixed terms or repayable by instalments.
A. MILLER,, Acting-Manager.
Medical.
PULVSSRMACHER’S WORLD-
FAHED GALVANIC BELTS
FOR THE CUBE OF
Nervous Exhaustion and Debility, Sciatica,
Lumbago, Rheumatism, &c„
HAVE received Testimonials from Three
Physicians to Her Majesty the Queen and
the Leading Physicians of many London Hospi-
tals, including over Forty Members of the Royal
College of Physicians of London.
For full Price-list and particulars, see new pam-
phlet “Galvanism; Nature’s Chief Restorer of
Impaired Vital Energy.” Pamphlets Free.
Sole Agents for N.S.W.,
FROST & SHIPHAM
ELECTRICIANS,
474 & 587 George Street, Sydney.
Sole Agents for Victoria;
ALLISON BEOS., 477 Collins-strbet West, Melbourne.
GRANVILLE, X.S.W.
Sydney Office: - 173 CLARENCE STREET
(near King Street).
Bmnton’s Patent Roller Flour
The Highest Order of Merit at every Competition,
“Special Recommendation” of the Jurors of the
Melbourne International Centennial Exhibition,
1888-59.
Business Announcements.
—AUSTRALIAN—
cIIer ||lour and jgrain ||tore6,
—AWARDED —
AND
•’
UMBRELLAS
RE-COVERED.
£TU D Y ECONOMY
a 1 d
Have your Umbrella Frames
Re-Covered, and your
Parasols Re-Lined and made
Euual to New, at
J . SIJ lb LIV AV’ S,
541 George Street,
Brickfikld Hill, Sydnrt,
bet ween
Liverpool <t Bathurst Sts ,
Parasols made to match Cos-
tumes. Repairs neatly done.
THE 6EOHGE HOTEL
opposite Bailway Station, near Baths),
St. Kilda, Victoria.
First-class Family & Commercial Hotel
I2T For particulars, apply to
F. WIMPOLE,
PROPRIETOR.
p^ :
'EVESY "i
DESCRIPTOR
HAIR WORK
YU
A
I^s
PRIVATE
ROOMS
Ft)R LADIES
22 $24
ROYAL ARCADE'
MELBOURNE
Sydney Canister Works,
COLLINS STREET, SURRY HILLS,
OFF CROWN STREET.
Manufacturers of allkmds < I Tinsfor Confectioners*
Tea Merchants, Biscuit Makers, &c., also all kinds
of Tins, round and square, for Pepper, Spice and
Baking Powder, made by improved machinery.
A. Trial Solicited..


Medical.
HESVOUS m.
u
EUREKA
\J
ELECTRIC B£LT.
- \
S
rh >
A NEVER FAILING CULL FOE. ALL.
DISEASES OF THE NERVOUS SYSTEM.
Complete -with Suspensory Appliances from £l. 0. 0 and
'upwards. This famous Electric Magnetic Belt will cure
NERVOUS DEBILITY. Seminal Debility, Impotence,
and all weakness caused by indiscretion. Jains in the
Back, Lumbago, Giddiness, Rheumatism, Kidney and
Bladder complaints, and in fact any disease of the Nervous
System. The currents are steady and constantly felt by
the wearer. It has great improvements over all other
belts, we are willing to furnish those belts on SO days
trial, and accept payment after they have proved them-
selyes what we represent them to be. Those belts are
made for the specific purpose of producing a continuous,
mild, soothing current of electricity through all the weak-
ened parts, restoring them to health and vigorous strength,
even the worst case permanently cured in three months.
It is more convenient to wear than any other Belt.
A Book illustrated, containing full information and testi-
monials from prominent pennlc throughout Australia,
and informing persons how they may obtain these belts
without paying for th"m inGl thcv have proved them com-
petent to cure any disease of the Nervous System, will be
forwarded to any address on receipt of a 2d stamp for
postage. ■»
Address.— VOLTAIC COMPANY
Box 916, G. P. 0., SyoußT.
Dr. James D. Llewellyn,
L.E.C.P.. M.E.C.S., L.S.A., LOND.,
Registered by the Medical Boards of Victoria, New South
' _ s Wales and England,
SPECIALIST
—IN—
Chronic, Nervous and Genito-Urinary Diseases,
may be consulted daily at
—3 25 LONSDALE STREET—
(between Swanston S E iznbeth Sts ),
MELBOURNE.
Confidence Absolute. Curable Cases Guaranteed.
All Personal Consultations are free ; but by
Letter, a Fee of £1 is charged, which is inclusive
of medicines. Patients living at a distance and
unable to attend personally can be treated by post,
and have their remedies forwarded per mail or
express to any part of Australia, carefully packed
and concealed from observation.
A Practical Manual on Special IMseases,
expressly written for the guidance of sufferers from
“ Nervous Debility” and Private Diseases —price,
3s. fid. (post paid.) Copies may be obtained from
the Publishers, “ The Otto Publishing C 0.,” No. 4
A’Beckett-street, Melbourne, and all Booksellers.
A Wonderful Discovery.
Eose’s Celebrated Eye Lotion.
o
THIS valuable Lotion is guaranteed to cure SWELLING
A and SANDY BLIGHT, INFLAMED EYES and LIDS,
DIMNESS OF SIGHT, &c. It will be found very bene-
ficial and cooling to those who have weak eyes, or whose
work compels them to strain their eyes. Highlv
recommended by the leading Oculists.
flsn■fl ATI T P l ’-bhr are requested to notice the
W&LLwlyii . words, Hose s I’clcbratcel Eye
Lotion, with the Trade Mark (a Hose) on Dark Blue
Ground, is on the label affixed to each box containing the
Lotion, without whicli it is a forgery.
ASK FOR
Rose’s Celebrated Eye Lotion,
Not for ROSE EYE LOTION,
as you will get a Lotion composed of Rose Water palmed
off on you for the genuine article, thus misleading the
purchaser for the sake of the vendor’s extra profit.
Manufactured only by the Proprietor,
A. ROSS.
Dispensing and Manufacturing Chemist,
531 GHORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Wholesale by the Proprietor and all Wholesale Houses.
Established 1858. By Post Ss. 6d.
Manufacturer of Dr. SOUTH'AN’S GOUT and
RHEUMATIC PILLS.
JT ERVOUS debility
.. . o
PREE > personally, or by post HERR RASS
f™' the celebrated DANISH HERBALIST anc
EXPERT SPECIALIST. A medical book sent free or
receipt of a 4d., stamped self-addressed envelope, contain
mg valuable hints. Try Herr Rass-Mussen's Pills, whict
are a guaranteed cure. Price, t.l 2s. 6d. per course. Senl
unobserved. Address
Herr Rass-Mussen, “Roselund Villa,”
Opposite -Rifle Butts,
MOORE PARK ROAD, SYDNEY.
BROU’S INJECTION.
Hygienic, Infallible & Pkeservative.
Cures promptly, without additional means, all
r ecent (r chronic discharges o the urinary organs.
Sold in Paris by
ferr e,
(Successor to Brou) Pharmacist, 102 rue Richelieu.
Agent in Sydney:
E. DOUBLET, 165 CLARENCE STREET.
P- C. NICHOLLS & Co.
WHOLESALE
Confectioners & Pastrycooks,
City Buildings:
736 George Street, 73€
Steam Wokks :
B*7, 619, 621, 639, 541 HARRIS STREET
Wedding Cakes, &c., Made to Order.
Medical.
A WONDERFUL MEDICINE.
Beecliam’s Pills
&
PATENT
OT
PILLS
&
Are universally admitted
to be worth a Guinea
a Box for bilious
and nervous disorders,
such as wind and pain in
the stomach, sick head-
ache, giddiness, fulness
and swelling after meals,
dizziness, and drowsiness,
cold chills, flushing's of
heat, loss of appetite,
shortness of breath, cos-
tiveness, scurvy, blotches
on the skin, disturbed
sleep, frightful dreams,
and all nervous and tr“m-
tiling sensations, &c. Tije
first dose will give relief
in twenty minutes. E e y
sufferer is earnestly invited to try one hox of these
Pills, and they will be acknowledged to be
Worth a Guinea a Box.
For females of all ages these Pills are invaluable,
as a few doses of them carry off all humors, and
brings about all that is required. No female should
be without them. There is no medicine to be found
equal to BEECHAMS PILLS for removing any
obstruction or irregularity of the system. If taken ac-
cording to the directions given with each box they will
soon restore females of all ages to sound and robust
health. This has been proved by thousands who have
tried them, and found the benefits which are ensured by
their use.
For a weak stomach, impaired digestion and all disorders
of the liver, they act like “ MAGIC,” and a few doses will
be found to work wonders upon the most important
organs in the human machine. They strengthen the
whole muscular system, restore the long-lost complexion,
bring back the keen edge of appetite, and arouse into ac-
tion with the ROSEBUD of health the whole physical
energy pf the human frame. These are “FACTS ” tes ifled
continually by members of all classes of society ; and
one of the best guarantees to the nervous and debilitated
is, Beecham’s Pills have the largest sale of any patent
medicine in the world.
Beecham’s Magic Cough Pills.
As a remedy for Coughs in general, Asthma, Bron hial
Affections, Hoarseness, Shortness of Breath, Tightness
and Oppression of the Chest, Wheezing, &c., these Pills
stand unrivalled. They are the best ever offered to the
public and «. ill speedily remove tiiat sense of oppression
and difficulty of breathing which nightly deprive the
patient of rest. Let any person give Keeciiams Cough
Pills a trial and the most violent Cough will in a
short time be removed.
Prepared only and sold wholesale and retail by the pro-
prietor, Thomas Beecham, Chemist, St. Helens, Lancashire,
England, in boxes at Is. l£d. and 2s. 9d. each. —Sold by
all Druggists and Patent Medicine Dealers everywhere.
N.B.—Full directions are given with each hox.
CONSULT
M
CORE & HOGG
THE EMINENT
SPECIALISTS,
On all Diseases dTthe Genlto-Urlnary Organs
Napvous Diseases, and Private Complaints,
I, OOBBBTT’S BUILDINGS, corner of George
mud Elisabeth Streets, Brisbane.
OOt.tULTATIONS FREE, PERSONALLY OR BY LETTER.
Box 88 G.P.0.) Book sent on receipt of 2d. startup.
Prof. R. T. SELBY
Is considered to be the most Successful Practi-
tioner in the Australian colonies. All sufferers
should read the Doctor’s most unique work on
Nervous, Private and other Diseases. The
Advice on Marriage is worth its weight in gold.
Send your full address, and we will send (post
free) One Copy. Write to Prof. R. T. SELBY,
Cleveland Street, Surry Hill, SYDNEY.
Hotels.
sggas
T c±
H O
oenJ
» *
BOWDENS
Eauotri
BOWDEN’S HOTEL,
Elizabeth Street (Nrar Hunter St), Svbnry.
JOHN C ItO »DEX Proprietor
WESTERN HOTEL,
Wamiambool, Victoria.
THIS old-established and well-known Family
and Commercial Hotel combines all the
requirements of a First-Class Hotel with home
comforts.
It is in full view of the sea and within a short
distance of the picturesque scenery of the Hopkin’s
River, which affords the finest Rod and Fly Fishing
in the colony.
Arrangements made for the Hire of Rowing and
Fishing Boats and Fishing Tackle. Bait, etc.,
supplied. Good Shooting in the immediate
neighbourhood.
It is also within Two Minutes’ walk of the Hot
and Cold Sea Water Baths, which are unsur-
passed in the colonies.
83T" Livery and Letting Mantes
Booking Office for Cobb & Co.’s Coaches. Thos.
Cook & Sons’ Hotel Coupons taken.
GEORGE W. CLARE - Proprietor.
Bigness Announcements
HE BANK OF NEW ZEALAND.
Ul DiXEi vrjrif) .
G 4 PITT STREET, and 538 GEORGE STREET.
Paid-up Capital £1,125,000
The Bank has Agents in all the principal cities
throughout the United States of America and
Canada, and can otter special facilities !or dealing
in Bullion, Bills of Exchange. Commercial and
Travellers’ Letters of Credit.
Drafts issued and Bills collected on most favour-
able terms, at rates which can he ascertained on
application.
UFteEmci ! 1-FB.eifct.ca. ! 3Et.esi.ca. !
History of Botany Bay,
By Arthur Gayll.
Profusely Illustrated by The Bulletin’s well-
known Artists,
L. HOPKINS and PHIL MAY.
Price - One Shilling
Per post, Is. 3d.
Victoria: A. Benjamin, 321 Little Collins-st., Melbourne
Melbourne ; Gordon & Gotch.
Brisbane: J. H. Thompson, Bookseller, George-street.
Adelaide: Neville & Co.
Tasmanian: Fitzgerald Bros., George-street, Launceston.
Sydney Branches:
N. F. GIBLIN, Manager.
“THE BULLETIN’S”
Wholesale Agents ;
EPPS’S
GEATEF QL—OOMZOETIE Q-
COCO A.
MUSICAL.
PATENT SCALE INDICATOR for Pupils Learning the
‘ Piano. Price, 3s. 6d. And IMPROVED VAMPING
SYSTEM, without a knowledge of Music, ss. 6d., posted
to the country from Ingham’s, Sydney Arcade.
Country Agents wanted —Stationers.
EMPIRE BUILDINGS,
Collins Street West, MELBOURNE
(Near Scott's Hotel).
WE beg to inform our Friends and the
Public that we have Opened these
Grand Premises as an
OYSTER SALOON
AND
Continental Dining Eooms.
PRIVATE DINNERS provided on Shortest Notice.
- Moderate Charges—
BIKTI & KATZ,
PROPRIETORS.
AST LE# softs
MANUFACTURING HATTERS
GEORGE STREET
SVD N EY
IMPORTERS OF AILTHE
NEWESTSHAPES.
And at ALBERT STREET, BRISBANE.
AUCH'S
m
THE BEST
IN THE WORLD
* MANUFACTURED BY A.
JJMCS Ctf/MNOjf J/arb,LrrS f W
- 'Sold try aU ,£t.?g<ti) r r 0 ' 1
Business Ann"Ui ceraei.ts
IJpiHE THREE GREAT LIGHTS t
The Needles Patent Gas-making Machine;
The Harvey Patent Safety Kerosene Lamp;
AND TIIK
New Era Portable Gas Lamp. '
The Harvey Lamp'has been adopted by the
Railway Commissioners for lighting the Sydney
trams. We were awarded the Highest Order of
Merit and Special Mention by experts at the
late Melbourne Kxhibition for our lighting
mediums. Over 0000 Harvey Lamps are in use
in this colony, and for all lighting purposes are
giving universal satisfaction. These Lamps can
be seen on one of the North Shore ferry-boats,
and are suitable for all e’asses of vessels. The
Inventor offers £2OO to anyone producing as good
a Kerosene Burner.
Patentees fcg Australasia;
izs:. t. «Sc co.,
404 Kent Mreel South. SYDNEY;
14 Arcade, Adelaide, S.A.; Argent Street, Bk oxen Hill;
Parkside Iron Works, Melbourne.
FREE BY POST for six PENNY Stamps, a
Medical Treatise by that eminent Erench
Hospital Physician and Parisian Specialist, l>r.
RABQNSKI, showing sufferers h' w they may
cure themselves of Nervous Debility, Lost Vitality,
&c., &c., without consulting a medical man.
Address: “Parisian,” P.O. Box 766, Sydney.
A BLESSING IN EVERY FAMILY.
HOLLOWAY’S PILLS AND OINTMENT.
There is not a country in the civilised world where
the healing virtues of thes n> grand medicines have not been
recognised by thousands of sufferers. In all the ordinary
ailments of humanity their beneficent action is at once
recognised. Fullest directions are supplied for their use
in every disease. IF YOU SUFFER, TRY THEM. Manu-
factured only at 76 New Oxford-st., London. J3F” Pur-
chasers should look to the Label on the Boxes and Pots.
If the address is not 523 Oxford-street, London, they are
spurious.
—THE—
SYDNEY SOAP & CANDLE CO.,
Limited,
MANUFACTURERS OF
Stearine and Paraffin Candles,
HOT A COLD WATER SOAP
Of every Description
Glycerine, Lubricating, Machine, Cloth and
Neatsfoot Oils,
The only Genuine and Original
Magic Cleanser Cold Water Soap*
To be had at all Grocers and Storekeepers.
Upfold’s Tree Pest Exterminator,
Its Effects are Marvellous!
“What is Home without a Picture?”
Xj. beenasconi,
(Late R. Smith)
Elite Carver, Gilder, and Picture Frame Maker,.
159 Clarence Street Only, SYDNEY
{near Central Coffee Palace).
Plush Work a Speciality. Mounts Cut to any Design.
H. HILDER,
BOOT UPPER MANUFACTURER
IMPORTER OF
ENGLISH AND FOREIGN LEATHER,
Elastic Web, Grindery, «tc„
Wholesale and Retail Leather Merchant
689 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
GROTH
PAPER-HANGINGS
oiis,C6louhs« p A | NT s
Wallpapers fro M
PAI
529 George BathurstSt,
—— Brlckf/eld H/11.
WALTER HODPZE,
General Merchant & Commission Agent,
199 SUSSEX STREET, SYDNEY.
C CONSIGNMENTS of all Produce, Live Stock, etc.,
> received and realised in the best markets. Account
Sales and Proceeds remitted the day after sale. Orders
executed for all Goods from Sydney at Lowest Wholesale
Prices
Speciality. —Pure-bred and Pedigree Stock of all de-
scriptions Bought or Sold on Commission. All communi-
cations referring to Pure-bred Poultry and Eggs for Setting
to be addressed as usual to WALTER HOPE, Bonnyrigg
Prize Poultry Farm, Liverpool, N.S.W.
O FECIAL NOTICE.— r The Sydney Bulletin.
Tasmanian Edition Publishers. FITZ-
GERALD BROS. • inscription (payable strictly
in acven e). Six Shillings and Sixpence per quar-
ter, or One Pound per annum.
The Bulletin will be on Sale every Friday at
the Office, George Street, Launceston, Com the
Runners in the street.
|>R IN C E OF WALES’ HOTEL,
J near Opera R ouse, Bonrke-st., East, Melbourne.
'lbis well-known Sporting Fouse is conducted
in First-cla:s Style. Every convenience Centrally
Situated.


SHEVILL & CO.,
Comer Queen Street and Flinders Lane,
MELBOURNE.
MERCANTDLB auctioneers.
House, Land, and Estate Agents,
gdiß
-lla
4s
1
Advances made against shipments of Merchandise
and Colonial Produce.
Daily Sales held at their Commodious
New Rooms.
aUTDOOR
Furniture & Land Sales Conducted.
Beauch
Offices
f 32 Chapel St., Prahran.
I 2 Albert St., Windsor.
Hi. ASCII
Oi-Hiss
IMPORTER OF
IE S, x SPIRITS, x BEEE S, x ETC.,
George and Gipps Streets, Sydney.
SPECIALITIES:
Joh* Jamison’s Dublin Whisky (5 to 10 years old); W. Jameson’s, Dunvillb’s Roe’s and Wise’s (old Cork) Whiskies.
Hennbssy’s, Kartell’s and Sazerac’s Brandies (5, 10, 15 and 21 years old).
The Choicest and Oldest SCOTCH WHISKIES (in tviyd), Imported and Bottled by P.R.L.
IST- The Best Port and Sherry Wines and Champagnes. £*?" All Brands of Colonial Wines. ‘The leading brands
of Bottled Ale and Stout, arriving by monthly steamers.
Prince of Wales Hotel, 778 & 780 George Street.
•®f[o'lcsalE anil Single Bottle l)epai]tinEnts, 283 anil 284
SEND FOR A PRICE LIST.
FIRST-CLASS LADIES’ REFRESHMENT ROOM k LAMATORY,
GIPPS TRBET (Opposite A. Hordern & Sons.)
)x(
Produce Stores, Gipps St., and Dcirlingfiurst Hoad.
HEAD OFFICE: GIPPS SPISISET (Next Prince of Wales Hotel).
mil
Sr
BROS.
■XtTES'W
FURNITURE
WAREHOUSES,
York Street, Wynyard Square, Sydney,
Now supply the General Public as well as the Trade.
10,000 Bedsteads,
From lOs. 6ti. to £35.
JiwWfiiiu^
t S
A/
m
OUT POORJS>M_E I £jpF
PROMfT4CCCCNTSi»i.K
AUCTIONEERS & ESTATE ACENTS
fe, llisi
MCI ....Ag
■ i'-V
EAY L E E & CO.,
General Adctionbers and Estate Agents,
335 Collins Street, Melbourne, and 14 Chapel
Street, South Yarra.
Free Prescriptions
Are to be found in the “In “li t and Tale,’
for the Speedy Cure of Nervous Debility and
Kindred Diseases, &o. A copy of this book will
be sent Free, sealed, for Six Penny Stamps.
Address —
S. WARD & 00., SYDNEY PHARMACY,
76 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
*^o
COCOA
Huntiugiou Mill
Kno.vcV Pumps.
PARKE & LACY GO.,
MINING & HYDRAULIC ENGINEERS
AND
GENERAL MACHINERY MERCHANTS,
&c., &c., &c.
187 & 189 Clarence Street,
SYDNEY, KT.S.-W.
And SAN FRANCESCO, CALIFORNIA.
Rock I Junkers.
WcsUag&onsc Engines.
T
, IMITE
Hay St., Hay market, Sydney,
ENGINES,
2 to 50 h.p.
BOILERS,
1 to 35 h.p.
STEAM PUMPS
For all purposes.
CENTRIFUGAL PUMPS,
2" to 40" discharge.
HAND PUMPS.
Saw Benches.
Xiatliea.
ns mm
&G«| &C»
-
mm
Hauling Engines.
Battery Engines.
Saw-mill Engines.
mim sms.
engines
FOR
Electric Lighting.
Vertical Eoilers.
Multitubular Eoilers,
OOKJiISU nOH I Bi,
&0., &o.
We invite al those requiring Machinery of any kind for any. purpose, .arge or small, to write for particulars and prices. From the extent of our stock we are generally able to (rive immediate rUT
Visitors, whether buyers or n t, are always welcome to inspect the magnificent display in our new and extensive Showrooms b ueilver 7-
X 25 9, 131, X 33 135 HAY STREET, 3E=EA'S"I^ J a k .3EILIS:3ES 8 1-, ’ JB "ST 3Z> 3XT lE'S".
