

BALDWIN DRY AIR EEFEICrERATOR.
Beware of the many so-called Dry Air Refrigerators advertised by unscrupulous Manufacturers and Dealers, intending
to deceive the public and trade upon our reputation. This is the original and celebrated Dry Air Refrigerator, made
famous by its successful competition at the leading Exhibitions in the United States for the past Six Years, known aa
the Baldwin Dry Air Refrigerator.
WHITE MOUNTAIN FREEZERS, ICE MILK CANS, MIXERS,
LEMOW SQUEEZERS, &0., &c.
ZMlclLjea-zi. ZBros. Sz, IKig'g', HLtcL,
512 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
r JMIE COLONIAL MUTUAL LIEE ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED.
BRANCHES THROUGHOUT TUB COLONIES AND THE UNITED KINGDOM.
Policies issued under the OrUlnctry, Modified Tontine and Mortuary Dividend Systems.
Anglo Scandinavian
Cold Medal
Condensed
Milk.
Acknowledged
The Best
ALLAN A. MARSHALL Sc CO.,
Enoinbbrs, Coppiuisv mu, Bras* and Bell Foundhrs
Finishers, Plumbers, Ship k, General Smiths, ’
Gastitters, Art k Mkbi jital Metal Workers
SO I. LEU BEITKB (any make) with BKAsS or WOOUK.V WHEELS.
-0-
Verity’s Gm Tires, Hesters and Ventilators at greatly Reduced Prices—ll,ooo Fires already in use
Importers and Manufacturers of Diving Gear, Yacht and Boat Work of every description in
Iron or Brass, Ships’ Single and Double Action Valve Closets, Fire Hydrants, Hose and all appliances.
Bon Accord Works, 0 Macquarie Place, Sydney.
-THE
Wolseley Sheep-Shearing* machine.
(ASTORALISTS are notified that, to avoid disappointment,
no time should be lost in Booking Orders for next Season.
Agents; J. H. 6EDDES CO.,
19 PHILLIP STREET, SYDNEY.
• •
HIGHLY NUTRIUVE
MAY BE OBTAINED IN I ABEUED TINS n.Q PACKETS THROUGHOUT IH£ COLONY.
«
a
CET
~v
.
mkm r <
''Sj
EBSSTSSSW
Z
w
3»
oMsyos
S'
//,
L & S
//
The i ®J D DN fr EY tea company,
(Two Doors from Market Street), SYDNEY
—IS PORT—
i istd ia nsr
H I <3- ZE3I-C LASS
&
teas
C H I dSTjk,
l-TOkad in am.. »nd «lb. Pack.-*:™, i«.l delivered at 1,. 6d 1, nd .ad n
(Oafria.ffp IW) any Port i„ N* w t „Wal» *" b '
A Stagl. M*. at Wkeleeale Price.' C.rrf„ond7«. invited and pr » p „ 7 attended te.
The Bulletin
VoL 10—No. 516.]
[Saturday, January 4, 1890.


TOBACCO
f
DIXSOPSONS
Ov4*
*
*
a
o
o
X
o
V
yovx
SIR ROGER
•f
O
)r
|i
DiXSONS
Dr. RIDGE’S
FOOD
foe INFANTS and INVALIDS
Una an enormous sale in England
and is now toeing introduced into ttoe
Colonies.
Every Storekeeper should get a supply
as every Wise mother will certainly
use it.
JJB,. JUDGE'S ROYAL FOOD MILLS.
LONDON, ENCLAND.
BOSTO
SS»K
'MI
XADItS
?IiIUDBE?2
. _»«».
/J/7W./G
BROWN’S
SATIN
POLISH
-FOB-
LADIES' AND CHILDBISTB
BOOTS AND SHOES.
Awarded highttt hcnort at
Phil*., 1876
Berlin, 1877
Parii, 1878
Melbourne, 1880
Frankfort, 1881
Amstord’m'lßSt
New Orleans, 1884-85, and whewrs*
exhibited.
Paris medal on every bot&i.
Beware of Imitation*.
This Blacking is in liquid form and is applied fcc *he«
or other articles of leather by means of a sponge, attached
to the cork by a wire, so that the blacking oan be used br
'..nyone without soiling the fingers. No polishing brnan
is required. It dries immediately after being applied, and
will not soil the most delicate clothing.
Sold largely in Australia through Commission Merchant*
and Dealers.
B. F. BROWN & CO.,
Boston, U.S.A., MTjf*.
BRITTiJNBERO & CO
• IMPOKTEBS,
81 Clarence St., Wynyard Sonars.
Famttan, ilirrort, OUogretpht, and Mtmldinff*.
ATKINSON'S
ENGLISH PERFUMERY
surpasses all others for its natural
iragrauce.
ATKINSON’S CELEBRATED
EAXJ DE COLOGNE
Ib Unequalled for Its Strength snd
Delightful Odour. It far surpasses
th# numerous compounds sold under
QfoU Dealer $ and of the Manufacturer*—
J. & 32. ATKINSON,
tne same name.
ATKl3STSO]>rS
FLORIDAWATER,
An exceptionallyfine Perfume for
the Handkerchief,distilled from the
oVirtinnntAiotifMI.
OLD BONO STREET, LONDON.
j. vi.ev “Whit# Rom»” on “Ooldeu
Mark—"White Rose” on “Golden
Lyre,’ ’ with Address In full.
T. LAWLESS, June.,
87 MARKET STREET,
SYDNEY,
WILLIAMS’
AUSTRALIAN YEAST POWDER
fry IS THUS ONLY PERFECT SUBSTITUTE FOR YEAST. ‘’O
-5 * J*
Bread, Tea Calses, Pastry, &c.,
ABB
—Light, Wholesome and Digestible
WHEN MADE WITH
Williams’ Australian Yeast Powder.
JOB THE TOWN, THE BUSH, AND THE SEA.
sum er vortMess imitations. Sold in Tins at 6d. the Half-Pound.
CLARENDON HOTEL, MANLY.
The Brighton of New South Wales.
4 T the CLARENDON HOTEL, Banquets, Suppers, Private Dinners, Evening Parties, etc., are
A garred on the Shortest Notice in the Large Dining Hall. Besides having a most rechcrcM
Dinner von can enjoy from the balconies the magnificent view of the sea and surrounding country;
Mi rhive good company, good wines-in fact, everything that can possibly make one
oomfortable can be found at this really first-class hotel. Fishing and Picnic Parties provided. Table
dTjHMe at One o’clock daily and Sundays. No expense is spared by Mrs. Kilminsteb to make her
visitors oomfortable and her Hotel the best in the colony.
najrei. BJCIjMXKrSTBri, Clarentioia. Hotel,
Opposite OCEAN BEACH, MANLY.
JOEHXT buokham,
449 Elisabeth Street. Melbourne.
Tent*. Tarpaulin*, Wool Dray and Waggon Oorer*
(crreaMci or oiled), Canva* Water Bottle*, Cooler*, Whim
bucket*, Horse Rugs, No*e Bag*, Oiled Loin Cloth*. Send
to or call at
448 ELIZABETH STREET, MELBOURNE
(Oldeat E*tabli*hed House in the Trade).
SURVEYORS TENTS A SPECIALITY.
68 Hnnter Street, and 8 Bllgh Street,
SYDNEY.
IF 1 . SHEOEDEE
LIVERY, BAIT, LET-OUT AND COMMIS-
SION STABLES.
Horan and Vehiolaa of every description for
Sale or Hire; alao, good reliable Ladies or Gentle-
men’s Hack*.
WILLIAM CARGILL,
Photographic Stock Importer,
2 6 MARKET STREET, SYDNEY.
Eaiv*
Mi
0^
Gjr.
/!>•
✓ O
/<9
•v&
n
vl>
\IA
/I
✓ iV
if
e
—rsPY^
VtctonifK.
Chaff? 7 Irrigation O&ces, Swanstcn Strot-
South Australia.
.Cavendish Chambers. Grenfell Street.
J. f. Mathew ViNCENT.fChisf Commissioner)
Cornwall Buildings. 35 Queen Victoria St.
UONDON EC.
PRINCE OF WALES’ HOTEL,
Bt. KlldLa, Victoria.
Within rive Minutes from STATION, and One Minute from ESPLANADE and BATHS.
MENG ... ... ... Proprietress.
& PERRINS'
A
Purchasers should see that the Label on every bottle of the original
WORCESTERSHIRE SAUCE
bears the Signature, thus :
Os
Ask for Lea & Perrins’ Sauce, and see Name on "Wrapper, Label, "Bottle and fltesppw.
Wholesale and for Export hit the Proprietors, Worcester : Crosse d Blackwell, London, #♦.,
and by Grocers and Oilmen throughout the World,
Tlie
—Everyone should Bead—
SXJUaIIfESTXIBSrS
“HISTORY of BOTANY BAY,”
•Ry Jrt. GAYI «Xji>
Profusely Illustrated by “ The Bulletin’s” well-known Artists, L. Hopkins and Phil May.
Price - ONE SHILLING; per Post, Is. 3d.
\ t i knts —V ic ton an :
May be had from Agents, or direct from “ The Bulletin ” Office.
A Beniamin 321 Little Collins {Street East, Melbourne; Tasmanian . Fitzgerald Brother., Geoi£e Bttmm*
Cmceston . Queensland J. H Thompson. George Street. Brisbane


The Bulletin
\ oL 1C —ICo. 516.
SATURDAY, JANUARY 4, 1890.
Price, 6d,
B9l|i
rrrz
C i A 7jf I ''"'"~~"rf ~' an...
vsl/a I n } Iff- ♦ /jk /f iij up { \ 't-xt?'
W!m :/ Si *■ .. .
I
I jk I
Ilftiß BgSBBSBBMt mrnmmmJimmmmmmm :
rfi/Rp} ir)
A NEW LEAF.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
“Australia for the Australians.”
Proprietors : BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO.,
Limited,
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
AT 34 PITT-STREET, SYDNEY, NEW SOUTH WALBS.
TEEMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
- (payable in advance, only).
Per Annum ... ... ... ... £lO 0
Half-yearly ... 012 6
Quarterly ... ••• 06 6
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to he addressed to William Macleod, Managing Director.
Literary Communications to be addressed to J. F.
Archibald.
The Editor will carefully read and acknowledge in the
'‘Correspondence” column all contributions submitted—
whether in the form of Political, Social, or other Articles,
Verse, Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in
length, or say 3000 words, are specially acceptable),
Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper-Clippings. All
communications will be regarded as strictly confidential.
" The Bulletin ” will return all unavailable MSS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But toe
desire those sending MSS. to distinctly understand that
we are not responsible for the preservation or transmission
of such MSS.
NOTICE.
By sending direct to Tub Bulletin Office Twenty Shillings
sterling—which you may pay by Post Ofiice- Order, One
Pound Note, or Stamps of any Australian colony—you
can have The Bulletin posted regularly to you every week
for a year.
This offer is not open to residents of Sydney. In that
city The Bulletin is not delivered by mail, but is entirely
in the hands of our carriers, with 'whom we do not wish
to interfere.
SATURDAY, JANUARY 4, 1890.
Alliance or Dependence.
The Federation scheme of Sir Henry
* Parkes is not without honour, except on
this continent. The cautious and measured
enthusiasm at first created has been replaced
by an indifference too intense even to be
critical, and in spite of the frenzied efforts
of political boomsters, no new interest can be
evoked. To any useful intent the matter is
now dead so far as Australia is concerned,
When the Conference comes the subject
may be galvanised to temporary vitality, but
from present indications there does not seem
to be any considerable reason to suppose
that the scheme will achieve any of the
results desired by its promoter. But while
so indifferently supported in Australia, the
project continues to arouse great and grow-
ing enthusiasm in England. Sir Henry
Parkes receives by each successive mail a
larger bundle of papers commending the
scheme — a circumstance which he does not
forget to communicate to the Sydney journal
which for some time past has acted as his
claqueur. It is noticeable, however, that
the reasons upon which such commendation
is based are not stated—possibly from mere
inadvertence or else for want of space. And
the British newspapers in applauding Aus-
tralian Federation on the Parkesian plan
are in strict accord with British politicians.
The alacrity with which the latter class have
set themselves to mind our business would
be gratifying if one could be assured of
their disinterestedness. From the Marquis
of Salisbury up to Henniker Heaton
British political somebodies and nobodies
have lavished praise on the scheme, and
every cable adds to the list of those who
seek popularity in London by urging on the
federation of Australia. Yet Australians
themselves are passive in the matter, and,
with rare exceptions, maintain an attitude
of utter indifference.
* #
The explanation of this anal anomaly is
easily made apparent. Australians do desire,
and that most ardently, that Federation
should be achieved. A real union of these
provinces under continental government,
created by the people themselves, to control
Australia, in the interests of the governed,
would confer nationality on the people of
these provinces, and bring infinitely great
possibilities within the horizon of our
politics, and it was autonomy of this order
and consequence that men hoped for when
Sir Henry first opened out his scheme,
But it has long since become evident that no
such breadth of purpose has been conceived
by the New South Wales Premier. The
large terms and high-sounding phrases used
by him cannot conceal the narrowness and
radical defect of his conception. It is not
“ in order to give effect to the recommenda-
tione of Major-General Edwards ” that
Australians desire to federate. Nor does
the ofter of “a Governor-General to be ap-
pointed by Her Majesty ” arouse any per-
manent enthusiasm. And the advantage of
“ attaining a more potent voice in the
Councils of the Empire ” is not deemed to
be of any value whatever. We don’t ■vtomt
Australian destinies to be controlled by any
“Councils of the Empire,” and, therefore,
desire no representation therein. “ The re-
commendations of Major-General Edwards ”
savour of Imperialism, and are, therefore,
to be suspicioned. And finally, we don’t
want any “ Governor-General to be ap-
pointed by Her Majesty ” ; on the contrary,
if we must have a figure-head, we want
a President who shall be elected by the
People. We don’t hanker for, but loathe the
prospect of, an aristocratic ruler appointed
by the English monarch. Any Australian
who is good enough to get a majority of the
votes of his fellows is plenty good enough
for us. And the curious lack of veneration
for German nobility which is noticeable in
Australia would make the election of a native
to the Presidency a much more popular
event than the appointment of a Batten-
berg or an Albert Victor to the Governor-
ship.
# # *
We have said that Australians desire a
Federation to conserve their own interests,
a real national union controlled by local
force ; with almost equal ardour they oppose
an Imperial Government of Australasia.
And if national union in consonance with
local desires is once effected, Imperial Federa-
tion would for ever be made impossible,
while, on the other hand, the realisation of
a scheme of Imperial Federation would for
perhaps centuries bar the way to autonomy.
It is because Sir Henry Parke,s, G.C.M.G.,
&c., &c., is suspected to be an Imperial,
not an Australian, Federationist that his
scheme is now met by an indifference which
would turn to vehement opposition if there
were any fear of the success of his endea-
vours.
* # *
British enthusiasm in support of the
Parkes project arises from precisely the
same cause as the Australian indifference.
The scions and panders of royalty discern
in an Imperially Federated Australia a new
field for plunder and “ patronage ” : the
camp-followers of British parties hope for
a second India where ignorant and idle sons
may be sent out to occupy fat sinecures ;
ambitious political leaders look for a new
recruiting-ground for Imperial armies ;
British exporters hope to be able to fence
round the provinces and secure them as the
sacred destination of shoddy ; and Exeter
Hall philanthropy looks to these lands
to afford, under direct Imperial control, an
asylum for the paupers and criminals of
Great Britain. No wonder that Eng-
lish enthusiasm rises at so cheerful
a prospect. Without exception, the
political oracles, big and little, whose
utterances have been cabled, have spoken
not of Australian but of Imperial Federa-
tion when alluding to the present move-
ment, although they knew that their words
would be read by Australian electors. The
sentiments prevailing in those States have
been so sedulously misrepresented in London,
that it seems to be held as truth there that
we desire nothing more than completer sub-
jection to Imperial authority. The paid
Agents-General of Australasia, Sir Gr aham
Berry and Dillon-Bbll especially, have
been the worst of deceivers in this respect.
Shaken hands with by lords, and coveting
titles, our civil servants in London have con-
tinually declared Australians to be glad
worshippers of Imperialism, and there have
been few men with the grit of W. P. Cullen
bold enough to publicly assert the contrary.
Almost without exception “representative
Australians” have been toadies and Tories
of the most vehement order. Hence it is
natural that British politicians should,
upon Imperial grounds, eagerly applaud
the present scheme. Sir Charles Tup-
per, another recreant colonial representa-
tive, who is credited with a recently
expressed opinion on the subject approves of
Australian Federation because it “ will
intensify the feeling of opposition to separa-
tion from Great Britain.” He further thinks
that “the selection of a metropolis is a
matter which might reasonably be left to
Her Majesty the Queen.” We are infinitely
grateful to Sir Charles Topper for this
brilliant suggestion, but still venture to
think that Australians do not require the
assistance of Queen Victoria in this matter.
Outrageous and silly as the chatter of the
philosophic Topper may seem, it is not more
so than the Parkesian idea of leaving to the
Queen the selection of our chief ruler in
Australia.
« # *
Other British oracles view the project in
precisely similar light. Sir Charle.s Dilke, at
Bradford, beginning with India and conclud-
ing with Swaziland and Hongkong, concludes
an oration by referring to the Australian
Colonies as “our possessions.” Even in his
mind we are merely ranked as Imperial
chattels. Earl Carnarvon, who is a very
great authority indeed, having actually
visited some clubs in Sydney and Melbourne,
recognised in the plan a new method of
“ drawing Australia closer to the Empire,”
and the revived Parkin —who is now in
London ready to receive whatever honour
may be available—forgetful of the heavy
frosts he encountered in Sydney and Mel-
bourne, exultingly points to the new develop-
ment in Austvalnn politics as a proof that
preparation for Imperial Federation is pro-
gressing. “Well Done” Rosebery is so
fully possessed of the notion that Sir Henry
Parkes is working in the interests of Im-
perialism, that he is even now arranging
another Imperial Conference to strengthen
the hands of the New South Wales Premier.
The idea of Australasia desiring a larger ex-
tent of Home Government never seems to
have occurred to that Imperial wire-puller.
Had he thought that the proposed Federa-
tion was likely to loosen the grip of the
British Government —if he had thought it
was likely to assist the national aspirations
of the Australian people, his enthusiasm
would not have been so excited. And the
fact that the Tuppbrs, Parkins, Dilkes and
Roseberys applaud the proposed federation
is quite sufficient reason why Australians
should oppose it vehemently, if the wither-
ing opposition of indifference should here-
after be found insufficient to stay a project
that would seem to have been conceived in
vanity and cherished in treachery.
# # *
In this matter of Australian Federation,
it must ever be remembered that British
interests are in strict opposition to our own.
What is sought to be achieved by ourselves
is exactly that which Imperialism is in-
terested to prevent. We ambition a wider
freedom : Britain is anxious to bring us
into closer subjection. A false analogy
is sometimes attempted by citation of the
position of Ireland. “It is not inconsis-
tent,” it has been urged, “forßritish states-
men to advocate Home Rule for Ireland,
and similarly Imperialists may consistently
favour Home Rule for Australia.” The
comparison is defective in two particulars.
First, because we already have larger free-
dom than Ireland, and, further, because
Australia is not, like Ireland, capable of being
a constant source of irritation and danger to
England. When the Israelites were without
the power of worrying Pharaoh he would
not let them go on any consideration, but
when by the aid of Moses the Israelites put
beetles in Pharaoh’s soup and frogs in his
boots, and slew the first-born in the land
the Egyptians were glad to give them all the
Local Government they wanted. If Aus-
tralia were capable of irritating England with
the same facility as is Ireland, Imperialism
might be willing to let these provinces go
and govern themselves. But under present
circumstances the destiny and future state of
Australia must be the subject of continual
contention : Australian patriotism, if larger
freedom is to be won, must be prepared to
encounter the full force of British opposi-
tion, for our gain in this particular must
inevitably be Britain’s loss.
Money.
No one requires to be told what money can do. The
ringing of the golden discs is a melody which never
wearies, the taste for filthy lucre is one that never
brings satiety. Yet while everyone can appreciate
the effects very few are able to understand the
causes which determine the purchasing power of
gold. Thus nothing is more stupid than the
ignorance displayed by even commercial jour-
nals and pretentious politicians of the laws which
govern prices of commodities and the effects of
varying prices on the well-being of the community.
Yet, as we shall presently show, the right under-
standing of this question is one of first importance
to Australians, and especially to the people of
New South Wales.
# # #
Formerly New South Wales was a very con-
siderable factor amongst the gold-producers of the
world. In 1852 she produced the precious metal
to the value of £2,660,946, in 1862 £2,360,383, and
in 1872 £1,634,821. Since the year last named the
yield has greatly fallen so that in 1888 the total
was little more than £300,000. In point of results
gold now gives way to silver, tin, coal, and in some
years to copper, nor is there any valid reason to
suppose that it will ever regain its former im-
portance. The very eagerness with which gold is
sought shows how thorough is the search, and how
fruitless it is to hope that, under the present
system of treating gold-bearing stuff, there can bo
any reasonable expectation of a considerable
increase in the quantity won. A recognition of
this truth is important. It would seem the
business of the State requires a metal cur-
rency equal to about (£8) eight pounds per in-
habitant, and estimating at the ordinary rate of
increase in population, New South Wales requires
an addition every year of something like £320,000
to its gold currency to keep pace with the busi-
ness requirements of its people; this is slightly
more than the value of the metal now obtained.
When, therefore, an orator or a newspaper-writer
talks about the enormous drain of gold from New
South Wales he amply demonstrates his own
ignorance, for the gold sent away from Sydney is
Queensland gold which comes South for coinage.
'I he day has passed when New South Wales could
send out large parcels of gold, the produce of its
own mines, and as far as we can make out the
excess of gold exports over imports during the
past 14 years, has aggregated not more than two
millions sterling, giving a yearly average of about
£150,000. The case m regard to silver is far
different. There is every evidence that silver
abounds throughout New South Wales, Queens-
land and South Australia, and that in a very '
short time the value of the metal produced will
reach enormous figures. Even in 1888 the value
of New South Wales metal and ore is returned at
nearly £1,200,000, or four times that of the gold
won. Clearly then the interest of New South
Wales is that the price of silver shall be main-
tained and the appreciation of gold, to use
Gosc hen’s term, shall cease. To determine why
gold has appreciated requires a consideration of
the question—what is money?
* * *
Money is the medium l>/i which commodities are
exchanged, as distinguished from the things for
which they are exchanged in great quantities
nowadays. No one wants gold for any other pur-
pose than for exchange, and the powor of gold
arises from the fact of its being almost the only
substance known to man, which unites the pro-
perties of a perfect medium of exchange. These
properties have been defined as portability, dur-
ability, uniformity and cognisability. Gold,
however, and even metals, have not always bpcri
the currency of the world. This our Scripture
readers know. In the Book of Job it is recorded
how Satan, on a particular occasion, stood before
the Lord and delivered himself thus : “ Skin for
skin, yea all that a man hath will he give for his
life.” The expression “skin for skin” is equivalent
in modern slang to “his bottom dollar ” —for skins
circulated in the time of the patriarchs as dollars
do to-day. Metallic money such as we now em-
ploy is an apposite example of the survival of the
fittest. All kinds of other articles have been
tried —some of weight, some of number, some by
superficial and others by cubic measurement, until
by common consent gold and silver have been
awarded the merit of being the commodities most
adapted for the purposes of money.
» ■» *
Until recent years both gold and silver were in
use amongst the principal European States as a
joint currency, the price of each metal being de-
termined in relation to the other. Silver has now
been demonetised—or, in other words, its fixed
relation to gold destroyed, and it is now merely
a commodity, just as is iron or copper. Most im-
portant countries have simply a single gold stan-
dai’d ; silver is only circulated as a token, that is
to say, a substitute for gold, used only because
convenient for the minor operations of commerce,
quite irrespective of the actual value of the
medium employed. Amongst us local notes are
current as tokens and circulate at their face value,
notwithstanding everyone knows that as paper
they are worthless. At the time the last silver
coins were minted the quantity of silver in a
crown piece was worth three-twentieths of a
sovereign, so that four crowns or twenty shillings
reckoned as silver were only equal to twelve-
twentieths of a sovereign—the other eight-
twentieths or shillings representing the profit of the
English Government. The temptation offered to
speculative persons to manufacture silver coins is
somewhat pressing. If, as is being done in
Germany, they make an exact imitation of
the ordinary coins and get them into circu-
lation the profit on the transaction is about
67 per cent., a rate high enough to tempt a
Sadducee. Gold coins when first minted are
equal to their face value, and are, there-
fore, not tokens. Many gold pieces, through
wear’, ultimately become tokens, and it is esti-
mated that one-third of the sovereigns and one-
half the half-sovereigns in use in England are
really tokens, being under the standard weight.
They would be refused by the Bank of England,
and would only be received outside the United
Kingdom by weight and not by count.
* # " *
The use of gold which is most familiar to our
minds is as a medium by which exchanges are made.
It has, however, other uses, chief amongst which
is its utility as a standard of deferred payments.
If two persons engage in a business transaction
involving payments over an extended period it is
of first importance that they shall have a well-
understood and certain standard by which the
payments may be measured. This is what gold
should be, but unfortunately what it is not. The
effect of the want of fixity is most obvious in the
case of agricultural leases. For example, a man
rents a farm for a term of years at a fixed annual
payment for rent, say of £IOO. This rent is deter-
mined by the amount of produce the land will
yield and the price of that produce. Thus the
farm may have a cultivable area of 50 acres and
yield, one year with another, 82 bushels of grain
to the acre. The average price which grain was
expected to bring when the lease was taken was
3s. 6d. per bushel, so that the average return from
the farm would be £2BO yearly. About £6O of the
return would have to be set aside fur labour,
manure, and other expenses connected with the
crop, the landlord gets £IOO, and for the farmer
there is £l2O. Suppose the lease was taken
in 1880, what would have happened to the
farmer ? Prices of produce since the year named
have fallen enormously, and instead of 3s. 6d.
the farmer would receive 35., and the gross income
from the farm would therefore be £240, or £4O less
than anticipated, the landlord’s rent and the ex-
penses woidd, however, remain the same, so that the
whole lossarising from the fallin prices would come
upon the farmer alone. This is what has been
happening in Ireland. The prices of all kinds of
produce grown there have fallen enormously, so
that in many cases it is impossible to earn the
rent from the land.
# # #
The fall in prices is due to the fact that the busi-
ness of the world has grown much faster than tin)
production of gold, and consequently each unit of
gold has, so to speak, more work to do than for-
merly was the case. The interest of New South
Wales in the appreciation of gold is that of a bor-
rower. The province named isinastate indebted to
England to the extent of nearly £48,000.000, and pri -
vately tothe extent of £50,000,000 more. On all this
money interest has to be paid. If there were no
appreciation of gold the bargain to pay a fixed
interest would be equitable, but the quantity of
gold which will purchase a given amount of goods
is less than formerly, so that goods worth £IOO,
according to the 1881 prices, would now be valued
at £B7 only. As we really pay our interest in goods,
that is by our exports, the country is virtually
paying much more in interest than it contracted
to pay. A specific case will best illustrate
this position. In 1881 a loan of £2,050,000
was raised at a nominal rate of 4 per cent.,
the yearly interest on this loan amounts to
£82,00<(. This sum is paid in produce, and
as the price of produce has fallen about 13 percent,
since the loan was floated, the province is now
compelled to send to England goods to the extent
of 13 per cent, more than was anticipated, and the
rate of interest paid is really equal to 4 6-10 per
cent, instead of 4 per cent, as contracted for.
The case in respect to private debtors is much
worse, for their debts are of longer standing, and
the appreciation of gold lias consequently been
very much greater. It is quite within the bounds
of probability that prices will fall very much lower
than they are to-day, and the community will be
brought face to face with the very serious question
whether debts contracted under one standard of
values can be legitimately enforced under another,
# # #
Anyone in the receipt of income from money
lent can well afford to be cheerful while prices
fall, his income remains the same while the goods
he has to purchase are cheapened to him—on the
contrary the person who has to pay a fixed sum in
interest on debt contracted when prices were
higher than at present finds himself with decreased
earnings, and fixed payments to be met out of such
earnings. The present arrangement in regard to
deferred payment is manifestly very inequitable,
being entirely in favour of the creditor. Various
suggestions to meet the difficulty have been made,
not one of which can be said to be feasible. It is
a very old question this about the making of
deferred payments. All through Roman history
it keeps cropping out and was solved in all sorts
of fashions. Sometimes by the entire cancellation
of debts, sometimes by the reduction of interest,
sometimes by the reduction of principal, but
scarcely ever with due regard to the rights of
both parties. These awl all other methods,


hitherto tried, have been very crude. There is
only one remedy for the evil and that is to keep
prices in gold fairly level. How to do this is the
problem of the hour, and many well-informed
and thoughtful persons consider that this can
best be done by again constituting silver
as a joint standard with gold. None who
take this view point to the great steadiness of
prices before the single standard was adopted,
and maintain that the same steadiness would again
appear under the influence of a double standard of
gold and silver. To do this the relative prices of
gold and silver would have to be determined, and
at these prices they would be maintained, no
matter what the production in any year happened
to be.
* * *
Assuming that bimetallism would maintain level
prices, it remains to be seen how such would suit
Australasia. So-far as New South Wales is con-
cerned, a return to high prices would serve
admirably. The state is destined to be a great
silver-producer, and if the price of silver were
determined, like that of gold, so as to be un-
alterable, there would be a distinct gain to the
community. Against this it may be urged that
Australasia is still a great gold-producer, the
value of the metal even in 1888 being over 5. 1 ,
millions sterling, and it is obvious that the more
goods this 5Jj millions can purchase, the better for
Australasia. If the country owed no money to
people outside its borders the appreciation of gold
coupled with a large production would be a gain.
Australasia pays now about 7 millions sterling per
annum for interest on its public borrowings, and
about 9 millions on its private account, say 1G
millions in all. Since the debts on which interest
is paid were entered into prices have fallen hugely,
so that the produce required to be sent away to
pay the 1G millions mentioned would have been
valued, if former rates ruled, at something like 20
millions —thus on this score alone Australasia
suffers an annual loss of 4 millions sterling. From
this it is easy to see that the general interest of Aus-
tralasia is distinctly against a further fall in prices.
Not so, however, are in the interests of England.
That country stands in loco avuneuli to most other
countries, she lends her money at fixed rates and
from this source receives something like 130
millions a year. Every fall in prices makes the
purchasing power of these millions greater, and is,
therefore, welcome to the English Capitalist. It
is not hard to understand how it is that com-
mercial England is strongly in favour of a single
gold standard and falling prices, while even-
country that owes, her money, from Australasia to
Turkey, is interested in sustained or rising prices.
I his matter is one of the many instances which
show the inconvenience of the English connection.
If Australasia were free in these matters, she
would very soon be alive to her interests and pro-
bably join the ranks of those who are seeking a
relief from falling prices in bimetallism.
HENRY SIEBEL.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
"The Age" and Socialism.
The Age, in a Christmas Day article, makes an
amusing attempt to refute' the doctrines of
Socialism by quoting certain “ vigorous utter
ances” which the Bishop of Peterborough de-
livered during a recent clerical corroboree at
Leicester. Among many other apologies for the
existing state of things the good Bishop said :
B.was his firm belief that any Christian State carrying
out in ail its relations the Sermon on the Mount could not
exist for a week. The two leading principles taught
were non-resistance and forgiveness of injuries. At
would not be possible for a State to forgive all injuries
or to forgive all criminals. Neither could the English
Government in the event of a French Army landing on
our shores, afford to give that army a safe escort to
London.
Reading the foregoing specious perversion of
Christ’s rudimentary lesson it will occur to every-
one, not dominated by the spirit of the Age, that
the Sermon on the Mount was not addressed
solely to English Governments, nor did it
authorise the maintainance of any armies what-
soever. Clank of steel and boom of cannon are
quite out of harmony with that universal forgive-
ness of injuries preached by the humble Founder
of the Church from which “Peterborough”
derives his £4OOO a year and perquisites. The
Christ who taught non-resistance was even more
emphatic in laying down the principle of non-
attack, whereas the Bishop would represent that
one-half of mankind were exhorted to be constantly
turning their left cheeks to the other half. But
unless we assume that “ Love your enemies ” was
merely a partial injunction, intended to encourage
aggression, the Bishop’s interpretation of his
Master’s text, satisfactory to the Age critic
though it be, cannot find favour outside Tory
circles. The Sermon on the Mount cer-
tainly contained no practical suggestions for
the guidance of Lord Salisbury in the event
of a hostile body of French troops effecting a
landing at Dover. It didn’t touch upon the pos-
sibility of the Germans invading Australia, and
no complimentary references to Royal families
can be found in that immortal address. But if
the simple leading principles of the Sermon had
been religiously upheld and honestly taught by
the “Christian” Church since Christ died, it
would, in this Anno Domini 1890, be beyond the
power of human imagination to picture a bishop
talking of wars and standing armies, and takingit
for granted that a dispute between States (whereby
the Bishop of P. means a handful of exalted indi-
viduals on either side) could, under any cir-
cumstances, induce two strange nations to enter
upon a course of indiscriminate bloodshed. What ■
a drug on the market would the new smokeless
gunpowder be if Peterborough belonged to the
Church of Christ, instead of to a Church run in
the interests of the “ Constitution ” and Com-
mander-in-Chief! What modifications could be
made in the codes of criminal law, and how com-
paratively few criminals would have to be legis-
lated for ! In short, what an impertinent farce it
is to speak of the practicability of carrying out
Christ’s doctrines in any “ Christian State ” of
which a Bishop of Peterborough forms one of
the spiritual supports. As well might one dis-
cuss the blessings of personal liberty and an
emancipated Sunday under the present' Victorian
Government.
—
Portugal is evidently ripe for the Republic, to
follow Brazil. The Portuguese were ardent sup-
porters of the French Revolution, but Napoleon
disgusted them. The Portuguese Republic will
be another Startler for Europe. Mark the miser-
able, sneaking comments of a large and rich
section of the Australian Press on Brazil, the
thinly-veiled hopes that anarchy may be stirred
up. The monarchial business hangs together all
over the globe, It will hang together in another
sense,. Spain effervesces from time to time. What
a ridiculous thing it is waiting for a baby monarch
to grow up, But in Spain the difficulty is with
the ignorant priest-ridden lower classes The
Republic has been tried, but the country was not
ripe. Events march forward towards another
shaking of the thrones, as in 1848, when all the
kings had to go. Ever since then Queen Vic-
toria has industriously hoarded money to be safe
in the event of a capsize.
Says Pastor Wayland, editor of the American
National Baptist, in an ai’ticle combating the
bequeathal of property with a reserved grip on it
by the dead :
, 1 apprehend there is no right of absolute ownership,
t.ach generation receives a great deal from the generation
which precedes if ; its possessions are a trust tinder the
will Of t he past generation to In' transmitted to the genera-
tion following. Each generation is but a life-tenant. It
has no fee simple. And much of the value of the property
held liy the generation of to-day is really given by the
generation which is to come. The railroad of to-day is
valuable largely because 50 .tears from to-day men
will use it and will pay for the use of it.' The
bond due in 1939 owes half its value to the fact
that the next generation will pay the coupons. We
enriched the last generation (unconscious benefactors)
before we were. The amount of gratitude due from each
generation to the following, the sum of t he debt we owe
to posterity has never been adequately considered. Still
more, suppose that a founder of the last century left cer-
tain land for a certain purpose. The land derives all its
present value from the labour of the men of to-day.
Without this labour it would be valueless. Again, in an
eminent degree all its increase in value comes from the
labour of to-day. The land which went begging at 2doI.
an acre is now a bargain at SOOOdol. Who created this
increase ?
1 HE priest-ridden city of Melbourne is still afford-
ing an education to the outside world. On Sun-
day week some of those ruffians who want to
read books in the Public Library on the Sabbath
gathered on the pavement in front of the locked
gates of that noble institution. They were-sum-
moned for loitering, and two of them fined £1
each. lit the course of the case a young man
came forward as witness for the defence. Of
course the prosecuting attorney asked if he had
been in gaol. He replied that he had once been
put in the watch house and wanted to explain,
when the law yer would not hit him. J he young
man naturally waxed angry, and insisted on
explaining that he was put in for giving away
Socialistic tracts. A lawyer-legislator at the table
roared out to the Bench —“Commit him to prison
for contempt !” 4 lie Bengh did not dare to do it,
but perhaps would have liked to. Thus goes on
the war in Melbourne.
+.
“Without fear or favour, affection or ill-will ” —
that is the kind of way Supreme Court judges
swear they will do their duty, but in practice
they sometimes stray a long way from this path of
judicial rectitude and make the conduct of the
court subservient to the enrichment of some curly-
haired youthful relative or connection. This judi-
cial eccentricity has been a perpetual scandal in
various courts for many years past, and now
Queensland is enraged at a similar abuse of autho-
rity. The awkward part of the business is that no
complete remedy can be suggested. The custom of
appointing judges for the term of their natural
lives is largely responsible for the presence of the
evil. If a judge knew that his billet would in the
early be dependent upon the will of the
electors, their employers, he would take care not
to do anything to spoil his chances for re-election.
But as it is now judges are so utterly reckless that
if they now had to submit to election there are only
three Supreme Court judges in New South Wales
and two in Queensland who would stand an out-
side show of “saving their forties” —though we
believe the present Supreme Court judges of
Victoria would all be returned. If the judges
whose arrogance is their most noticeable attribute
desired to hasten sweeping reforms of the whole
legal system, they could not prepare the way
more effectually than they are now doing by their
faults and.follies.
Very little thinking over it will suffice to convince
any intelligent being that the failure of the gas-
stokers’ strike in London is not a satisfactory
“triumph for Capital.” The outcome of the
trouble seems to be that needy “ blacklegs ” have
ousted the original stokers from their poor billets
—the men who were hungry are “in,” and their
places are filled by men who, in turn, have become
hungry. The converting of a few thousands of
employed into unemployed and vice versa doesn’t
strengthen the position of Capital, nor justify the
beautiful laws of Supply and Demand.' But the
process tends to spread Socialism, and knocks the
stuffing out of the pompous " old argument that
“there is work for every man if he will only look
for it. Which faith-is largely upheld by flabby
snufflers who have inherited grocery-stores from
their fathers.
♦
Spurgeon has at length recognised the fact that
Dogma and Science can t be made to harmonise
anyhow. He acknowledges that the advance of
“ scientific unbelief “ is rapidly lessening what
remains of the power of the pulpit. But
like all of the clerics, blunders in treating “ reli-
gion ” and “ creed ” as the same thing. He lias
not grasped even the tail-end of the fact that if
every existing creed were shattered, and every
ecclesiastical doctrine limboed, religion would
have a better show than at any time during the
last ten centuries. In confusing religion and
dogma, ecclesiasticism, true to past traditions, is
attempting to terrorise those whom it cannot con-
vince. The churches of to-day are no more the
monopolists of religion than the Scribes and
Pharisees were 1850 years ago. But the modern
churches claim exactly the same patent of salva-
tion as the synagogues of ancient times did, and
the impertinence in the two cases is just about
equal.
A rad accident on the railway at Sandringham,
near Melbourne, on Boxing Day, ought to give
the final to Speightism. Mr. Speight was not
engaged to make the railways pay, but because of
the fatal accidents. Yet they have been worse
under this regime than ever before. Speight’s
policy has been to work the railways on the
cheap, secure kudos and a bigger salary for
himself. Thus, by hocus-pocus he' got
£1000 per annum extra from Parliament
last session. Nobody travels on the suburban
railways if they can help it. One is always in a
tremor and quiver, expecting an accident. ’ One is
reported from somewhere on the Victorian rail-
ways nearly every week. The best way
would be to give Speight £5000 per annum
(he gets £4000 now) and make his mind
easy as to money—then instruct him to devote
himself to public safety. The railways arc
not purely a commercial concern. Even if they
were, the public could not afford such bills as that
of £150,000 over the Windsor accident, where
Speight himself had a narrow escape. A valuable
man is lost in the death of Solomon Mirls, loco-
motive-superintendent, worked to death. A pre-
mium, divisible among all employes, ought to be
offered for a month without an accident on the
Victorian railways.
Once Bitten, Twice Shy: an Insurance-
Fiend’s Story.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
“Well,’” said Mr. Wiley, General Manager of
the Austral-cwm-Asiatic Assurance Society, ■ 1 you
can give it a trial. Pomfrey at Rockhampton
made £7OO odd last month. Yes, yes,”
Mr. Wiley, a brisk and keen little man, then
looked rather hard at me as if he could bear my
departure with fortitude. 1 coughed, the neces-
sitous man’s invariable policy, and stared blandly
back at him. “Yes, yes,” he continued, “don’t
let yourself be too easily rebuffed, though. I re-
member when I was about your age, and took to
it.’ Here he leaned back in his capacious office-
chair and smiled as though he’d swallow me,
“ How I used to get jumped upon,” he continued.
“Why, one man set his bull-pup on me! Dear
me, the good old times ! But ’’—very briskly—
“ I got him for all that—£soo, too. Well, I’m a
little busy so—•”
How 1 managed to say it Heaven knows, but,
after all, Wiley only seemed to have been await-
ing this revelation, for he gave me £5 and
accepted my undertaking to repay out of
fmy commissions.
On the s.s. Wallaroo, bound for Maryborough,
1 found many passengers. “ Here’s a haul!” was
the thought which at once enraptured my con-
fiding soul as I meditatively paced the deck and
canvassed in my brain the most promising-looking
voyageurs. Shall it be that used-up voluptuary
with the heavy-coiled double Albert and thick
cigar, whose whole get-up bespeaks luxury and
opulence—or yonder respectable sire, with the
irreproachable overcoat and canvas shoes, talking
to his golden-haired daughter? Here goes for the
fat sensualist, anyway,
“ I have thought of insuring,” he replied, gently
flicking off Ins cigar-ash into the sea, “ but I doubt
if any of your Sydney companies, would go in for
as much as would suit me.”
My heart fairly bounded within its seamy nest.
Doubtless a globe-trotter with thousands rolling
in to him annually. His very yawn and tired-
looking eyes show nobility. And yet people prate
of doing away with these grand seigneurs ! This
not being exactly business, however, I answered
so fast that my words must have rattled like a
hail-storm on him, before which he seemed to
shudder faintly. Going slower then I displayed
my sheeniest lures. Hardly any sum would alarm
the A-cum-A. What amount would he like to
name ?
My quarry seemed to reflect, as he leaned over
the bulwarks and stared down into the glassy
waves. Suddenly he jerked his patrician brow
and said: “Let’s go below and have a bottle of
gold-top. 1 was at Yap. this morning, after a night
of the same game, so as Nature can’t have her
legitimate nap, I must give the old lady the next
best thing.”
Laugh at this most mock-turtle wit ? I absolutely
roared enough to make all eyes turnon us, and could
hardly stop even when the steward stood smiling
before me, while my prince on his travels rum-
maged a bulky pocket-book.
“ Pray don't trouble yourself, sir,” I implored,
sending the steward off with a pound-note—my
last but one be it said.
“Very good,” he muttered gruffly, “we’ll have
some more before parting.”
As soon as the steward returned with five shil-
lings change, and I had done patting myself on
the back, business exigencies promptly re-asserted
themselves.
“ I shou’dn’t mind ten or twenty thou.,’’grunted
Croesus, emptying the bottle’s last dregs, “ but
I’m so doosid unhealthy y’know. Only just
through the jim-jams, no liver to blow about,
night-sweats, no end of ’em, without saying
anything of blood-spitting, paralytic seizures,
permanent gout,” &c.
“ I should never have thought it, for really you
look so healthy. Tut, tut ! —you’re hypochon-
driacal, that’s all. ”
“ Yes, I am so, forgot to put it in with the list,
Doosid hoppo—what you call it,” he said, rising
to go. ‘ ‘ All right, Colter, I’m one with you
this to a howling swell passing with three others
in yachting fashion-plate toggery, as he rushed
away to cut into another game of cards.
My hopes here suffered a shocking relapse, and
1 was attending to their recovery when a thin
young fellow brought his glass over and sat down
next to me, and borrowing a light began talking.
“ Pm travelling for Whyte’s absorbent plaster,
me boy,” he said. “ Tried book-peddling till I
got so bruised and butchered that I slung it. No,
never tried ’.surance; sure, I hope you’ll do well at
it, anyway. Could you be after loaning me a
couple of bob? 1 don’t rightly know what I’ll do
if you don’t. That spawn of a steward’s on my
track now, be Jove ! ”
I passed it to him under the table, and turned
in thoroughly disgusted.
My cabin being next to that of the card-players
1 heard their oaths and foul language to admira-
tion. Sleep at last coming I had some hours
of it, but awoke suddenly owing to a bottle
breaking against my cabin wall. There was a
row. When they made it up slumber was, of
course, utterly out of court, so I lay listening per-
force -to a series of beastly stories, lies and blas-
phemies, till the evident allusion to myself excited
my keen curiosity,
“ N.ever such a putrid flat in all your bloomin’
pilgrimage, Colter. Wanted to hook me for his
decayed insurance fizzle! Got a big bottle of fizz
out of the (adjective) natural though.”
“ You can’t be licked, Trotty. Will Short and
Swish ever find your daisy equal, I wonder?
Here, you , cut again !”
Next morning I felt terribly down-hearted. I
was sea-sick. I liad an almost hungry wife and
family and—one pound. I had fooled away fifteen
shillings on that vile gold-top, and two shillings
more on the pepper-and-salt-suit dead-beat, and I
had, in justice to my amour propre, to look as if I
didn’t notice the grins and jeers of about twenty
vulgar, be-diamoned drummers.
“ Travelling for pleasure, sir?” broke in on my
meditations as I sat on a camp-stool by the steer-
ing-gear. I looked up to see my nicely-dressed old
sire of the previous day.
“ Another of those accursed bag-men,” thought
I: “ but you don’t get any champagne out of me
this morning, so you’d better join your fellow-
pirates.” As to real spoken words, all I said was
that I intended touring North Queensland with a
view of buying Homebush Plantation, Mackay, as
soon as I had done —or some other equally Sheol-
meriting falsehood—ejecting my intelligence, too,
in a very snappy way, for I was really angry
about that wasted fifteen shillings.
“Arc you now?” he returned confidentially.
“ Well, I’ve made a tidy bit at the Towers, so me
aucf my Nell here’s going back to England by the
next boat —to come back again, never fear ! I’m
off now to Maryborough to see some ’lotments
theye. - Yon seems a nice,- honest sort of gentle-
man now, sir, so perhaps you wouldn’t mind
advising me as to the best office I can assure in for
Nell’s benefit should anything happen. And
while we’re a-talking of it like, perhaps you
wouldn t be too proud to join me in a bottle ''
Of gold-top at, fifteen shillings, ” 1 freezinglv
rephed. “No, I thank you, sir; once bit twice
shy, you know. I ”
“Excuse me, sir, for interrupting you, ’’ cried at
this moment the two-shillings borrower, with a
sort of convulsion twisting his sharp features as
he spoke, “but my friend, Mr. Nugget and
meself have something so particular urgent to
discuss that I know you’ll look over my intrudin’
upon you.’’
With a most dignified bow off I sauntered, and
a few minutes later, having in desperation decided
to take a brandy-and-soda in solitary state
ensconced myself in the saloon, where T saw the
three 1 had just left all very busy laughing and
joking over two of the inevitable yellow-necked
bottles. Horror upon horrors ! I had been thick-
headed enough to absolutely “ chuck ” away ffln
most golden chance that ever presented itself to
an agent. “Yes,” loudly said Mr. Nugget’s
friend, “All right, my dear sir, £5OOO it shall be,
and proud an’ happy my society, the Amalgamated
Mutual Australian Alpha Omega, will be to take
you.”
LLOYD
The Garden of Australasia.
The following seemingly incredible figures arc
from a New Zealand contemporary
excited the surprise of many that New Zealand
with its limited area and comparatively small population,
can send such a vast quantity of produce away This
however, is explained in a tabulated sheet issued'from the
Registrar-General’s Department, in which the agricultural
returns of the seven colonies of Australasia are shown. In
respect to the productiveness of soil, it is simply a case of
JSew Zealand first and the rest nowhere. Her total
is 7,670,167 acres, against the
4,3/3,184 acres in N.S. Wales/ Victoria, Queensland Tas-
mania, and Western Australia. From South Australia n<»
information is supplied as to the total area in cultivate,,
hut the number of acres in wheat is given at I,6ON(KK»!
Ne\\ Zealand s total yield of wheat was 8,770,246 bushel*
Victoria coming next with 8,647,000 bushels, and then
, South Australia with 6,187,000—the yield of the other
colonies is not worth mentioning. N.Z. also stands far and
away ahead of all the others in the yield uer acre it
being 24-22 bushels, while Victoria gives onh 7.10, and
South Australia 3-85 bushels. Of oats, New Zealand
grew over six million bushels more than the whole of
Australia, her total produce of this grain being 10 977 Oir.
bushels,,the only other colony which grew any quantity
being Victoria, whose total was 2,800,000 bushels Here
again, we have a proof of the wonderful fertility of New
Zealand s soil, the yield per acre being 29-89 bushels
while Victoria’s was only 14-20. Of barley, also. New
Zealand raised more than the yvhole of Australia her
yield per acre being 31 ;15 bushels, that of Victoria, which
comes next on the list in the aggregate, being onlv
But yve will give the figures from the return itself' Wheat
is as folloyvs:—
~ , . Acres. Bushels.
New Zealand.. .. 362,153 ~ 8,770 240
1,217,191 ~ 8,647 709
South Australia .. .. 1,605,000 6 187 000
New South Wales .. , . 304,803 .. 1’450’503
Next we come to oats, and, with the exception of Vic-
toria, none of the other colonies grow am quantity to
speak of: — ‘ ■
vr „ , ~ Acres. Bushels.
New Zealand .. _ 367,225 ~ 10 977 065
Victoria 197,518 .. 2.’803.’800
Tasmania .. .. _ 33,844 .. 940 351
Neyv South Wales .. ~ 7,934 .. 109’931
For barley the area devoted in the other colonies than
those named is very small, and not worth recording?—
v „ , , Acres. Bushels.
New Zealand 45,027 . 1 4(r* s‘>7
Victoria 83,483 .. 1’131|427
From grain we will go to potatoes, the figures under this
head being as folloyvs :
Acres. Tons.
New Zealand 26,341 ... 133 682
Victoria 43,074 .. 131 14U
New South Wales .. .. 15,419 .. 36’839
Tasmania 13,653 06,721
The yield per acre is;—New Zealand, 5-08 tons; Tas-
mania, 4-88; Victoria, 3 - 04 ; New South Wales, 2-39. lu
maize, the yield per acre is : Victoria, 46-15 ; Neyv Zealand
43-47 ; New South Wales, 29-56: Western Australia, 29-00 •
Queensland, 25-38. It will be seen bv the above figures
that for fertility New Zealand is unapproachable, and there-
fore yvith such productive power in her soil yve need have
no fear of the debt that has been incurred, for our
country must eventually become one of the most pros-
perous in the civilised world.
The housekeeper of the Bishop of Grau, a
handsome Jewess, has been found, disguised as a
nun, dead in the prelate’s palace under most sus-
picious circumstances. The Hungarian Primate
is investigating.
Dear Bulletin, —The amount of “ blow ”
and mutual admiration indulged in at the Cale-
donian Society’s dinner at Melbourne challenges
enquiry as to why Sandy should be remarkable
for “ enterprise and success ” all the world over.
The Johnsonianly-remarked Scotchman’s readiness
to seek his fortune in another country -is in itself
something of a condemnation of his national
character, being evidence of a desire to escape
from the dreary cant which is the very essence of
existence in the Land o’ Cakes. As for ability to
“come to the front,” yvhat shrewd outsider who
knows anything of the Scotch in Australasia can
help discovering that clannishness has a vast deal
to do with their advancement ? There are town-
ships here and in New Zealand of which it is even
noyv said (and with truth) that the few English
and Irish residents are systematically boycotted
by their brayv, bony brithren. Old tales, by the
dozen, are told of Scotch butchers and store-
keepers in the Victorian bush refusing to supply
goods to Southerners, and being tied up while the
applicants took yvhat they wanted and put the
money in'their churlish victims’ pockets. Under op-
posite conditions Scotchmen would take yvhat they
wanted and pay only half-price, but the opposite
conditions never arise. Irish compatriotism isn’t
carried to a hateful degree, and Englishmen
born south of Yorkshire are notoriously indifferent
regarding the origin of man, as long as he talks a
language they can understand. 8 More especially
are the maligned “cockneys” free from birth-
place prejudice in matters of business, friendship,
or charity. A Londoner in a London warehouse
will -welcome a Scotch recruit and do his best to
make things pleasant for him, careless of the fact
that the newcomer is scheming to get another
Macsomething into the Sassenach’s billet. There
is no London Society to hold dinners at which the
various speakers might ‘ ‘ blow ” about having
been bom in the richest city of the world. How
the Scotch thrive, though, on this absence of
“English” clannishness, and how they would
howl if the born “ cockneys ” were to straightway
commence clinging, scheming, and scraping
together as do men from beyond the Tweed !
That Scotchmen are persevering, cautious and
possessed of strong nerves (a characteristic not
generally associated with genius, by the way)
must be admitted by their non-admirers. But let
them never forget that their high cheek-bones
frequently give them a start on the road to for-
tune in the colonies —that they are savers more
than makers of money—and that they contribute
Erecious little to the gaiety of the world. The
Caledonian element in The Bulletin management
strikes me as beim? a brilliant freak of Nature,-
A. M^han,


[?]
-846 Macquarie-street North, Sydney, January 1, 1890.
My Dear Moo i; a bin da
Seeing that the initial performance of “ A Midsummer
Night's Dream ” at Her Majesty's on 24th ult. was held
on an eve when half the poor players in Sydney were
loose I wasn’t surprised to note many theatrical visages in
the house. Rip Van Winkle M‘\Vade, in a big diamond-
ring and a basin crop, adorned the managerial-box, and
brought Louise Halbee in red and a ruby necklet and a
sweet unknown in sky-blue who lurked in the shadows ;
Mrs. Brough, in black, a black gauze-fan and pince-nez
tiad Brenda Gibson (did you know she is Miss Homer’s
daughter ?) in white silk and her hair like a Skye terrier’s
under her wing ; and Louise Davenport had on a brocade
gown in blue and cream and her hair d In Greoque as
usual. Then the audience comprised either an Indian
prince or a chutnee-man in a big yellow turban and a bold
black eye ; two or three gentlemen who sat it out in
yachting caps contributed greatly to the brilliant
ensemble. On the boards there wasn’t much dressing,
literally speaking, and it is a pleasing and soothing sight
to see Madge Seymour play Titania in a yard or so of
cream mousselin de sole and a blonde wig—and then to
be so emphatically reminded that “Titania” is a biped
every time she gets the light behind her is worth double
ihe price of admission for reasons of Shakespearian re-
search alone. On his make-up as the bombastic weaver—
painfully like the every-day visage of an enthusiastic
medical amachaw—l congratulate Handsome George, who
was not recognised on Tuesday until he began to speak—
a thing that doesn’t often happen to Henry Antony V. —
and I could also enthuse for a page on the thoughtfulness
of his performance if only 1 had the page—which fact
must account for the absence of special saccharine men-
tion of the rest of the cast. An rate the fairies are very
beauteous seen through the reverse end of one's opera
glass—the scenery is a dream in a kaleidoscope, the
dresses are an inspiration, and if only the brass and
strings were more evenly balanced in the orchestra
Mendelssohn’s music would swamp the paramount claims
of a man who kicks a dog outside between acts.
Says a recent fashion, paper Flowers have given
place to feathers in ornaments for the hair. In fact,
heather is the only flower that competes with the coat of
the ostrich. Insects have gone out of fashion—blown
away.” And I may say that I am very, glad to hear it—
but I still advise ladies who travel first saloon per P. and
O. not to borrow their neighbours' combs and brushes
until the above is firmly substantiated.
1 know I shall merit the acrid resentment of many a
careful mamma when, with the-sorrow bom of deep con-
viction I rise to implore them not to intoxicate their
infants oftener than is strictly necessary 1 It dawned
upon me recently that the average baby passes its infancy
in a state of dreary razzle-dazzle its imbecile laugh isdhe
chortle of the toper—its fishy glare we dread so much is.
the epileptic stare of the inebriate, the fearsome nodding
of its large, bald head is alcoholic top-heaviness, while its
sodden sleep is the result of the dread mixture inside of
it. For infants are simply drowned in intoxicants. Has
it spasms? Fill it up with diluted gin. Do his teeth hurt
him ? Rub rum on his gums, a precious ! Is the naughty
wind on its ’ittie stummick? Just a tot of whisky it shall
have ! And so the thing goes on, and the result is a state
of incoherent fuddle on the part of the blessed infant.
Not that that would signify much—apart from the re-
pulsiveness of the idea—only that it’s saddening to see
how kindly the kids take to their gruel. I was in, a,
friend’s nursery only the other day, and mamma had baby
on her lap dosing him with liquor, and when spoon and
bottle were put down baby started howling and squirming
in the direction of the table. Upon which mamma took
up tlie still-wet spoon, and, thrusting it into his flabby
fist, laughed—“ He will keep good licking that spoon for
hours 1” In his large blank eye 1 saw the eager glare of
the hopeless toper, and I don’t think I will by much too
previous if I send him a prohibition order as a New Year’s,
card.
And, speaking of children, a small Sydneyite, who oped,
her flow’ret eyes a few days ago for the first time on this
wicked world, immediately closed them again and slept
for three weeks without waking ! It has passed into a
proverb that all Australians are “ born tired,” but this
one must have arrived in a positively fagged-out con*
dition ! And how does this strike you, culled from the
highly-respectable, vice-suppressing S.M.H.; —
V\7 KT-NURSF, Wanted ; young, unmarried pro •
’’ /erred; arrangements made for nurse’s child.
Apply between 9 and 12, Mrs. , , Park-
road, Burwood.
1 think it’s about time that people who wield a long wet
pen should give the servant-girl question a rest or else lie
low until they strike a fresh patch of information on the
■ause of paucity of “ help ” out “ yah.” It is burnt into
our souls that the “ general's ” daughter despises her
mother’s haughty professions and yearns to he a music-
teacher, and wc don’t want to be told every day that the
public schools are to blame for teaching French and draw-
ing instead of cooking and washing to the touzled
O’Haras; and wo are almost convinced that a posse of
imported Marias would straighten the home market up- a
hit—but then we are tired of these things. A new reason
lately advanced to explain the indigenous female’s dislike
for paid housework is that if she marries wealth and
shines at the “best” (unctions (an always possible
sequence in a young country, she argues) she would die
of chagrin if the other ladies could whisper about her
“ She was a servant once.” But judging by the longitude
of Mary Ann's mouth and the dull, heavy splodge of her
large wide feet, 1 don't think the idea should trouble her
much.
What a fruitful source of matrimony the photograph is!
We all know about the Sydney man who fell in love with
the photo, of a hospital nurse, chased her over to Mel-
bourne and married her, and now I am told that at the
present moment a fair young girl is hurtling over the
briny to a—let me say, Australian sea-port, at the eager
call of mamma, all on account of a carte. It seems that a
wealthy young man was much struck by a cabinet of the
damsel, and went into such rhapsodies that mamma con-
cluded he was hooked, and while he was still adoring the
pensive snigger she sent a cable home, and the result is
that the original of “this style, 12s. 6d.,” is enroute armed
for the slaughter. I would give a hat to see the demure,
icy greeting this designing young person will bestow upon
the man she has travelled expressly to conquer !
If Mr. A. T. Chandler, who appears to be in business as
a poet at Adelaide (S.A.), has written “Songs of Sunland”
—a little book botmd in a kind of greenishness—to prove
that it’s quite possible to letter 128 pages without once
introducing an original or catchy idea, then he has siu»
eeeded beyond his wildest hopes and is to be congratu-
lated. The only poem in the book one is tempted to read
through is “ Blinker,” in Bret Harte metre, but the
central “pome”—“Jove or Fame”—requires to be read
in a cool place, while “ Florrie’s Fairies,” written with the
idea of establishing Australian hobgoblins in the imagina-
tion of the business-like Australian child, will only deepen
that stolid infant’s gloomy scepticism. Mr. Chandler has
ihe misfortune to be one of the approved of Douglas B. W.
Sladen, who has indeed a burden of sin to bear.
I know it is customary to call Australia bad names when
the all-important servant-girl question shakes its gory
locks. But when all is said and done —if it ever will be—
the upward tendency of Bridget puts money into her
employer’s pockets. One of the first things a lady from
Washerwoman’s Row yearns to be is a lady’s help, or a
companion—to be treated as wan in th’ family, while to
iit at the same board as the Missus is such a salve to her
soul that the master can knock a trifle off her weekly
wage unquestioned. A lady help or a companion is a
servant, except that she hasn’t half the fun and toils
harder, but what is slavery compared to the ineffable
bliss of being addressed as “ Miss O’Toole ? ” If you are a
philosopher (I speak as a mistress) you will admit that to
get a painfully-trying-to-behave-herself young woman to
work like a nigger for seven and sixpence a week because
you call her “ Miss” and allow her to guzzle at your own
1 articular table is far better business than giving
twenty siblings to a lazy, saucy creature who half does
her work and will not wear caps or call you ma’am. Now,
isn’t it?
Which reminds me that the companion-class so ad-
dicted to appearances and bad pay will resent the follow-
ing advt. cut from a Sydney daily :
"TOT" ANTED, General (more companion). Apply, &c.
All the companions and lady-helps are generals—but then,
you see, when you call a spade a garden implement it
sounds quite like a wall-ornament.
A young gentleman who yearned to possess a Pansy
Blossom of his very ownest, recently advertised for a
young lady “ having matrimonial intentions ! ” Too
comprehensive an order by far, for if you’ll believe me—
The girl with brown and dreamy eyes,
The girl with hair of gold,
The girl with eyes like summer skies
And glance so pure and cold—
All may look noble, high, sublime,
Nor heeding Tailor Jones’ detentions,
But bound to get there every time
Are their connubial intentions.
With a C x 4 sigh for its omnivorousness I clip the follow"
ing from the “ home correspondence” column of aSydney
daily paper
“ Bush lass.”—Write to , Pilt-street. He
has an immense variety of golden dyes and will send you
one at once. Peroxide of hydrogen is the basis of most
golden washes, and if you apply that to your auburn hair
it will make it golden.
Since, judging by the above, the all-prevailing golden
blonde proclivities of the age have penetrated to the back
blocks, and even “ Bush Lass ” must adjust her sun-bou-
net over a straw-coloured bang, it is useless to weep for
the universal dyeing and bleaching and rouging and
powdering that is the astonishing feature of Sydney just
now. But Sappho, with her virtuous eye ever glued to
the proprieties, must submit that no amount of the very'
“ best” precedent should make a girl who respects her-
self get up as a glaring improper fresco every time she
walks abroad. A floured nose, ripe-strawberry cheek-
bones, aggressively golden hair and eyes “ arranged ”
with eye-pencils—isn’t that the catalogue of the hip-hip-
hooray “ charms” of an impropriety ? Supposing that
long-looked-for happy day arrives when we will be pri-
vileged to snub that nasty Opposition cat in Parliament,
or take or share the place of the good men and true in the
jury box, what would our feelings be towards the woman
who submitted her case to us with a peroxided thatch ? I
should,feel like bringing in a large capital “Guilty ” or a>
“Non-suit,” or whatever plaintiffs don’t like, with a cour-
teous discharge for her opponent and a ’pon-me-soul-don’t-
see-you,sort of expression fired at her as I “ came in,” and
the average woman would feel like that towards her, too.
A female with chemical locks puts the entire undyed
feminine community on the defensive—for does she not
suggest those giddy little suppers always presided over by
auriferous seraphs, which we all read about on the quiet
accompanied by the general undoing of well-intentionea
husbands charmed from their homeward path ? Litho-
graphed girls are painfully plentiful with us now, and I
have no doubt most of them more deserve pity for
their weak, eager desire to catch the male eye on the
block with, broad soetuc effects than condemnation for
bestowed bad qualities that probably they never dream
of; but still in the Feminine Millennium that we aie
ready to start, the woman with dyed hair and carmine on
her cheeks who wants justice, or damages, or a divorce'
will remain in a permanent condition of sorry-she-spoke.
And that’s my ipse dixit. Let the Government Houses'
of the various Australia* beware. I can always detect
paint just as I can always detect false teeth. Only this
v ery day I passed in the Arcade a sylph-like widow. She
was in deep mourning, and she was also obviously and
deeply on the mash. She had a complete set of false
teeth, and when I saw them I thought of the poor old
man, the grinning skeleton in the buried bone-box 1
With the advent of Sydney Burdekin as Mayor of Syd-
ney, society may hope for a livelier civic time of it than
they have had for years. By a gorgeous eleventh-hour
chavoo ex-Mayor Harris almost retrieved his barren social
record, but if Mayor Burdekin jubilates frequently he
cannot be expected to entertain the cits, as sumptuously
as bis predecessor did in the one gorgeous, isolated
instance ; and people who like to carp at civic hospitality
should hear this in mind. Mrs. Burdekin will make a
rather unusual lady Mayoress (a functionary always
associated in my mind with a broad, red fat face and a
smile of simply galvanising “ graciousness ”), and the
social (unctions she is foredoomed to administer are sure
to be worth attending. By the by, I hear Mrs. Burdekin
intends reviving the obsolete mayoral “ receptions,” when
I hope she will show the vice-regal people the way by
simply bowing to her troops of guests. The pump-handle
business is absolutely’ dreadful.
.Speaking of vice-regalities. At the first Hopetoun re-
ception there were no visitors’ books. It is quits time
they disappeared. The fictitious ids* that the person
who inscribes her name thrice therein gets a card for a
“ dawnce ” is about exploded, and every Infant knows that-
cliques and not governors’ wives run the vioe-regal show
very thoroughly.
Even had Lady Scott been a brass god with two new
hats, it would not have been a sufficient inducement to
attract your Sappho through the fiery furnance of 27th
ult. to the first reception at Admiralty House. A fair
aggregate of salamanders, including all the officers in
port, turned up in a moist and limp condition however*
and refreshment and a brass band rewarded the heroic
effort. An enthusiast who braved the weather summed
up that “All the women looked as if they had no petti"
coats on, and they all had spotty faces.” Heat does play
up with the scientific complexion.
The unchaining of lovely woman beside the Beautiful
Harbour doesn’t go ahead so fast as a Summer Cup
winner, for the average Sydney man shows desperate fight
if a woman is nominated to fill a position he has clutched
for many happy years. Witness the contemptuously re-
jected proposal at the late Public School Conference (I
don’t think that’s the right word tor it) to appoint a
feminine instead of a male inspector of sewing ! The idea
of a clumsy, uninitiated man dictating over the irre-
gularity of a tuck or the depth of a fell, or the straggle of
a length of herring-bone is manifestly ridiculous at first
blush, and, if you like to look at it through an auger-hole,
rather improper, for an inspector should examine not
only stitches, but fit, also ; and they construct some very
confidential garments in a Public-school sewing-class.
And if he doesn’t see that the apparel “sits well” he is
only slumming his duty and ought to be thrown out and
a feminine expert substituted for “ Mr. Dash, Inspector of
Sewing.” But Sappho will venture to bet that not one
out of a dozen of these “Calico Jimmies” can thread a
darning-needle.
Breezy advt. from a Sydney daily :
A S WORKING Housekeeper to Bachelor’s or
- L *- Widower’s family, no hotel.
“ Bachelor’s family ”is excellent. We are an outspoken
people, you bet.
After columns of biting periods and galleries of scathing
pictures mercilessly condemning'the “ theatre-decollette ”
state of things, the Faithful Fev who have steadily
laboured to haul society’s jacket up over her shoulder-
blades can dismiss the subject at last, for in a recent
Sydney fashion paper a gifted scribess dictates to a
correspondent on the all-important bare-back question:—
5. No ; half the ladies who go to the theatre wear high
bodies, you rarely see a richly-dressed house excepting on
a very fashionable night, or the production of a new
piece, semi-evening dress is the rule.
The ballet is now spared the necessity of looking at the
house through their fingers.
Sydney advt.: —
A GENTLEMAN holding an official appointment
under the Government, and his wife, who live in
one of the best parts of London, are desirous of
effecting a temporary exchange of homes between
their daughter, aged 21, and the daughter of an Aus-
tralian or New Zealand family of good position, to
whom the advantages obtainable in the metropolis for
the completion of education and adoption for the
time being as a member of an English family of good
social position would be desirable objects. Unexcep-
tionable references will be given and required.
A gentleman who is capable of holding an official appoint-
ment and his wife at the same time is a person whom it
would be a privilege to exchange daughters with, but what
advantage his olive-branch would derive if sentence of
transportation were pronounced, isn’t quite apparent—
unless the gentleman’s brain is hung with rich-squatter
cobwebs like the average English official cerebrum, or the
maiden is suffering from jim-jams. By the way, if the
Anglo-Australian filial exchange business assumes whole-
sale proportions it won’t be safe for a young unmarried
male to travel unprotected per P. and O. A Happy New
Year!
Yours affectionately,
SAPPHO SMITH.
The compositor of the Bush Advocate,
published at Danevirk, Hawkes Bay (N.Z.), takes
the belt for the champion cable perjury, and it
runs as follows:—“Jefferson Davis died from
malaria fever caught through getting a child ”
chill.
R. Whelan Boyle, editor of the London
Daily Chronicle, is dead. The body was cre-
mated at Woking, and the urn-enclosed ashes were
afterwards transferred to the Highgate catacombs.
Miss Boyle, daughter of the deceased gentleman,
is now in Sydney on a health-visit.
Three historical mistakes in the address
presented by Parkes to Gladstone on the latter’s
80th birthday ! After all, Parkes, instead of
making a mystery about this matter for reasons of
vain-glory, could have done better by submitting
the address for revision to some decent State-
school teacher.
Capt. O’Shea, M.P., has brought a divorce-
action against his wife, from whom he has been
separated for some time and made Charles Stewart
Parnell, the Irish leader, co-respondent. The
Bulletin is prepared to wager that O’Shea, a man
t funsavory reputation politically, will be routed
with great slaughter, but even should it be other-
wise a natural scandal of this kind is refreshing
coming after the Dead Sea vapours wafted from
the West End Club.
Gordon and Gotch, of Melbourne, alone
took a railway-truck load of The Bulletin’s
Christmas number —and sold them. Three other
big Melbourne agents sold between them 9400
copies of the number, which was commercially the
most successful produced in the Australian conti-
nent up to date. The sale in Queensland and
New Zealand was unprecedented, and close upon
27,000 copies were taken on firm order by Sydney
agents.
Within the past year have departed from
this earth the alcoholised spirits of two convivial
souls who “ enjoyed life ” while it lasted. Both
were well-known three-bottle men, and were J.sP.
■of the olden time, and of the good old sort.
Neither was ever known to go to bed sober while
liquor could be had. They had met in town one
morning, and immediately “went on the burst.”
Now it happened to be court day, too, and the
local sargint, having a few drunks and disorderlies
and other unrighteous people in his custody, was
scouring town for magistrates to adjudicate—a not
unusual job with the officer. Being market-day,
the local storekeeper was too busy, the butcher,
who was also a J.P., had gone slaughtering, and
the master blacksmith, J.P., had “a set” to
put on. The despairing and weary copper
thought, when passing the Royal, that he
heard a familiar magisterial voice, and peeping
in descried the two boon companions in a fairly-
advanced stage of intoxication. There was no
help for it; the charge-sheet must be “cleared,”
and after a little persuasion he got the two worthies
as far as the courthouse, and with the assistance
of the C.P.S., who was himself no mean judge of
whisky, and is now also dead, got them on
the bench. To each of the drunks or disorderlies
each magistrate in turn delivered a homily against
strong drink and fined each defendant 205., much
to the surprise, amusement, or indignation of a
crowded court.
CORRESPONDENCE
“ Have you left Sydney A.W.8.”:
From the division-list on Mr. Dibbs’ motion the N.S.AV.
Government and supporters would appear to number 70,
including Mr. Garland and Mr. Seaver, leaving 66 in Op-
position and Mr. Speaker....“ Hopeful ”: “Woman’s
delight ” has given infinite pleasure to the office kitten.
.... “ 0.H.0.” (Queanbeyan) : While Kemp was champion
Beach beat Hanlan for the fourth time “ E.T.H.” :
Thanks....“ C. James”: Christmas has completely
mined our grip on the Milparinka mystery
“Tommy Nut”: Thanks “ E.M.S.” : “A Golden
Shanty ” is not yet out, but will be published shortly
“Vietorian Native”: Amusing to see, but hardly of
printable interest... “Solomon Wiseacre”: Endeavour
to clothe your theme with fitting words ; don’t make your
subject seem subservient to your vocabulary “Fred
Maccabe”: Thanks “L. M‘L.”: Not half bad. Try
to write without using the crutches of a previous
writer’s works....“ W.L.P.”: You can’t prove that
Parnell ever said anything of the kind
“Wallal” : Very acceptable....“ Walter L. B.” (Mary-
ville) : Handed to artist. You are not yet an artist....
“ D.AV.” (Queensland): Many thanks “E. W. AVbods
Living in the glitter of English “ society” corrupts every
Australian politician who is not absolutely honest. Look
at Graham Berry—what a ghastly political spectacle is
that man to-day ! The fleshpots of Egypt are too much
for the damper-fed....“ AY. Manton”: It is absurd for
anyone to contend that intemperate drinkers live longer
on the average than total abstainers of equal physique.
But, given two sound men of equal age setting out in life,
one as an habitual tea-drinker and the other as an habitual
drinker of light wines at meals, we do not believe that the
teetotaller would, on the average, live longer. On the
contrary, we believe that wine, when used in moderation,
especially after middle age, tends to prolong life. Again,
health depends just as much upon how much fresh air
you drink as upon how much whisky you don’t drink
“ L.S. J.” : Minister Gould’s reply to the allegation that he
nepotistically appointed his brother-in-law to a position,
worth between £4OO and £6OO a year over the heads of
other N.S.W. civil servants appears to have been some-
what disingenuous. He says, no doubt truly, that no-
eligible man already in the service would accept the police-
magistrateship at Milparinka; but then that is not the
whole of the question. The real point at issue appears to
be—who gave Mr. Gould’s brother-in-law a billet in the
civil service some months ago, and why, and what were
his qualifications as compared with those of other men
already in the service ? This matter must be followed up..
“ Louth ”: Any bookseller will get you a copy of
Gordon. “ Old Pardon the Son of Reprieve ” will ap-
pear in The Bulletin’s book, “ The Golden Shanty,” now
in the press “ M.L.0.” (Vic.): The enforcement at
your Agricultural College of the rule that every boy must
go to church even when he believes in no religious de-
nomination, is, if it has been duly subscribed to, logical
enough. But the rule itself is a tyrannous one at this
period of the world’s history “ W.F.H.” : (Waipawa,
N.Z.) ; Thanks ; will read and consider “ J.G.C.” : A
very thin joke. If we wanted to be nasty we’d say that
nobody who was not very pious could get such a plea-
santry off his chest. . “ Horsetrailhere ” : The neatest
thing in your screed is your long-winded definition of
the W.P.8., as being “ the wicker coffin wherein lie
buried the insufficiently animated children of disordered
brains.” However, the goodness or badness of almost
anything is merely a matter of opinion. In the news-
paper-office AV.P.B. lie children who are editorially assas-
sinated as well as children who arrive at the office
after they have died of congenital debility.
“ E.G.D.0.” : Good sentiment, awful verse “F.M.G." ;
Much obliged. Send us something we can print
“ F.AV.S.D.” (Silverton): No. 1. Only first verse metrical
and that’s a parody ; rhymes bad. No. 2. Much worse.
Not even good prose—like a policeman’s report put in
lines of even length “ Darling-street AV.B.”: Received.
....“ Loafer” : The “ AVhaler’s Grave” contains some
excellent lines, but then if AVilliam Shakespeare returned
to earth and settled down at this office (which he would
probably do it he did come back) he couldn’t induce us to
publish anything about the bushman’s tomb, especially if
it rhymed with “wattle-bloom.” “ Lufra” : If the
British aristocracy had its deserts there would be just as
many of its members in gaol as in the House of Lords. ..
“ H.” (Inverell): (1) A woman cannot get a divorce if she
has acted thus. (2) If a woman has reasonable grounds
for believing her husband to be dead (seven years’ absence
on his part with utter ignorance of his whereabouts on
hers, would be good ground for such belief) and remarries
she will not be prosecuted for bigamy, but all the same-
the marriage will be illegal, and any children by the
second marriage illegitimate, should the first husband
turn up “A Victim”: The hardened criminal for
whose benefit the solitary system was instituted very
often doesn’t worry about it, but simply goes to sleep in
his cell all the time. It is the nervous man who is driven
mad “J.H.S.”: To hand “0.E.”: Nowadays
no woman is ever hanged for killing her illegitimate child.
Sentence of death in such cases is a mere farce
“ K.D.M.” (Vic.): Thanks “G.H.H.” (Sydney) ;
Many thanks “ Radical ” (Tas.): Glad to hear from
you “ E.J.” (Allendale, Vic.) : You write well. AVhy
not try something with an incident in it ? AVrite again,.
“ Cooktown ”: AVhat the politician said was in effect
this : That it was true, as alleged, that he had been im
the debtors’ prison. But there were two sides to a prison'
—the debtors’ side and the criminal side, and if the man'
who had maligned him got his deserts he, according to'
the local Chief Justice, would have been on the criminal
side of the gaol.
Extended empire, like expanded gold,,
exchanges solid strength for feeble splendour.—
Johnson.
The damage done by the fire at the Union
Company and Tasmanian Company’s wharves,
Sydney, is estimated at from £20,000 to £80,000.
Photography.— The established and well-known
firm of Creelman & Co., Photographers, in the
Sydney Arcade, beg to announce to their numerous
clientele and the public generally that the price of
their Cabinet Photographs is now reduced to
15s. per dozen. The common objection raised by
many, “that our photographs were very good,
but too dear,” is now taken away. Hesitate no*
longer to have a sitting.


Minister of Justice Gould says he can
take no further action in connection with the
Mount Rennie prisoner Newman. As a Minister
of Justice, Gould is a farce. Newman is incar-
cerated for life on a verdict arrived at by the
most discreditable means narrated in the annals
of Botany Bay.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Theatre R0ya1.,., “Aladdin.”
Her Majesty's “A Midsummer Night's
Dream."
Criterion “Friends.”
Cyclorama Battle of Gettysburg.
School of Arts Harry Rickards’ Company.
Exhibition Building The Silbon-Stirks.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Theatre Royal “ Cinderella.”
Princess’ “That Doctor Cupid."
Opera House “ Fun on the Bristol.”
Alexandra “ Judge Not.”
Exhibition Building Christmas Festival.
Athkneum Hall Snazelle.
St. George’s Hall “ Adonis.”
Victoria Hall Novelty Company.
It is impossible, after one visit, to have a
concrete idea of a “ Midsummer Night’s Dream,”
as played at Sydney Her Majesty’s. The mind
picture is phantasmagorical; goblins, elves, fairies,
boors, lords and ladies chaotically thread their
way through forest glades and lordly halls, and
the dual story, a mere thread on each side, cun-
ningly interwoven, has not enough blood and bone
to transport the looker-on out of the land of
visions. The piece is magnificently mounted, the
palace scenes, somewhat reminiscent of “ Julius
Caesar,” are good, but in the forest scenes, particu-
larly in the fern-tree glade, Mr. Spong has ex-
celled himself and represented the calm forest and
its lush, green undergrowth with the utmost
fidelity. Mr. George Kignold is very fitly cast as
Bottom, the Weaver, an individual who would
fain assume every character in Pyramus and
Tlhsbe,” and who, notwithstanding, is not letter-
perfect in the one he undertakes. This character,
which requires careful handling if vulgarity would
be avoided, is worthily enacted by the hard-
working actor - proprietor whose ear - inclining
business when invested with the ass’ head in-
variably fetches the house from dome to pit. The
airy appearance, clear enunciation, and grace-
ful acting, particularly the former, of Madge Sey-
mour as Titania was an agreeable surprise to those
who witnessed her first Sydney performance. The
impersonation of the high-kilted Hippolyta by
Maribel Greenwood was satisfactory. More of
the young lady we may not hope to see, but trust
to see her oftener and in parts of greater magni-
tude. Harry Leston’s first show at this house was
highly creditable, as was that of Mr. Greenaway,
late of the Holloway and Milu companies. Harry
Jewett makes the most of a small part, in which
the expansiveness of his smile is somewhat dispro-
portionate to the importance of the character, and
Kate Bishop, Athena Claudius, Watts-Phillips,
and other ladies not overweighted with big bur-
dens endeavour to make small ones loom largely.
The Puck of Bessie Colville is light-footed and
intelligent. The Dream will have a long run.
* * * *-
“Aladdin,” a complete literary and to
some extent musical failure at Sydney Royal, is
saved from utter ruin by the gorgeousuess of its
scenery and costumes, the symmetry of its legs,
the well-drilled-ness of its marches, the grace of
its various dances, and, above all, by the business
of George Walton and Jennie Lee. It is almost
impossible to overpraise the beauty of some of Mr.
Bruntou’s scenes, that of the willow-pattern plate
device being to our mind a perfect daisy. There
have been pantomimes in which puns were plenti-
ful and not so far-fetched and distorted as to give
pain to the listener, but in “ Aladdin ” things are
otherwise, and the old wheeze about the dog who
was named Sausage because he was half-bred, was
to us a veritable oasis in a desert of humorless
cacophony. As previously asserted, George
Walton’s Widow Twankey, very funny in every
particular, is without doubt, in conjunction with
the Aladdin of Jennie Lee, the backbone of the
entertainment. The two play well into one
another's hands, and the gaunt, hairless, shape-
less widow is all the more grotesque from
the contrast provided by the gorgeously-attired
and handsome little Aladdin. Miss Violet
Varley —no relation of the Evangelist
looks sweet enough to eat, and sings her little
songs tunefully, but the libretto otherwise affords
little room for the display of ability on the part of
other ladies. Slade Murray, Harry Cremar, and
Fred. Dark are highly amusing, and John Wal-
lace, as Kasrac, the dumb slave, with an Elton-
esque dance and a Gaiety Company two-handed
combat, does good work. The ballets are well
conceived and fairly well performed, but a ballet
leader uf undoubted excellence is badly wanted.
The performance is altogether too long, and some
of the incidentals, we are glad to learn, are being
considerably cut down.
*m * *
“ Friends,” beautifully mounted, is likely
to be a huge success at the Sydney Criterion. It
is a splendid satire on that class of friendship
in which the attachment of the smaller to the
larger resembles that of a marine parasite to a
ship’s bottom. The Mr. Dawson of Percy
Lyndal, less Lyndal than Dawson, has so
far received but scant favour from the critics,
but to us it seems the best thing he has
done of late. Played in an undemonstrative
fashion, it may not appear so striking as if spas-
modically enacted, but is, for that very reason, a
careful study and a natural performance. G. L.
Gordon has somewhat stepped out of his lately
over-well-trodden track, and in Mr. Meanley gives
a very good representation of the childless Civil
Service harpy, with which most of us are familiar.
The others are all good without exception, Cecil
Ward being very successful in the Boudoir scene,
while the first appearance of “ Gus.” Titheradge
must have gladdened the “old man’s” heart.
The ladies, excepting Brenda Gibson, who was
lumpish and at times inaudible, are all in good
form, Mrs. Brough’s performance being quite up
to standard.
«» « *
The Silbon-Stirk combination, strength-
ened by the engagement of Herr Herbert, who
previously appeared in a quickly-bust-up show,
at the Academy, are again on view at Sydney
Exhibition Building. In addition to the evening
performances they give Saturday matinees and a
special performance on the afternoon of New
Year’s Day. Apart from the intrinsic value of
this show much of its success is due, doubtless, to
the coolness of the building which, while sight-
seers are sweltering elsewhere, never gets over-
heated. The Russian skaters are as graceful as
of yore, and as ungraceful as ever is the funny
act by the fat policeman and the wire-drawn
burglar. W. B. Warner has imported some new
Bongs, not before the others were worn thread-
bare, but his O.P. grin still retains its former ex-
tensiveness. The performance of Moulton and
Dashaway on the triple horizontal bar, a new item,
is the most graceful and cleanly performed bar
act ever witnessed in Sydney, and the symmetrical
Stirks are as fascinating as ever, while the agility of
the Girards, especially that of the shapely Kate, i
as 6ver inconceivable. Probably sensation lovei*
are more strongly attracted by the performances of
the Silbons than any other item on the pro-
gramme. The sinuous grace of the lady per-
formers, the muscular power of Cornelius, the
daring leaps and mid-air somersaults of Walter
Silbon, with his dive from the dome, furnish
just as much excitement as the nerves of most
people can bear. The season here will bfl a short
one.
** * *
At Sydney School of Arts the evergreen
’Arry Rickards draws good houses in spite of big
opposition. The first part of his entertainment is
devoted to the elucidation of Garnet Walch’s
attractive farce, “ The Land-Lubber ”; the second
part of the show introduces Pat and Ella Murphy,
two clever Irish impersonators, and a number of
old favourites—including the Spanish Students in
new songs, dances, sketches and instrumental
selections. The show is a good one.
* -Mf *
The Gettysburg Cyclorama has been run-
ning on right ahead throughout the holidays
careless alike of Christmas or of Boxing Day.
This fact accounts for the extra blood-thirsty
expression assumed by most of the warriors and
the leader of the orchestra.
* *- * *
A busted balloon stopped Parachutist
Price’s ascension at Bondi Aquarium last Satur-
day, but with 15 seamstresses at work, this Satur-
day will again behold his trip to oloudland.
** * *
A great, big hulking person is just now
leading a “dancing” bear round Sydney in the
hot weather. The man who will make a bear get
a living for him is almost as cruel as, even if a
shade more conventionally honest than the fellow
who stole the woman’s petticoats off the line the
other day and pawned them. The hawking round
of dancing bears is now absolutely prohibited in
civilised countries, it being considered that the
average itinerant showman is better able to dance
“A LOVELY VOICE STILL.”
“The Queen has a lovely voice still, and a beautiful touch on the piano.”
—English Paper.
Her Majesty has ceased to have a voice in public matters, but she has a voice in
private.
for a bear’s living than the bear is to dance for
his. Perhaps our old friends, the larrikins, may
find a way of transferring the bear’s muzzle to the
master and making him dance, while the bear
smokes cigarettes and goes round with the hat.
** * *
At the Palace Museum General and Mrs,
Mite are putting in their last week, and Manager
Ashton is now in treaty for some fresh novelties
to fill the gap. We should now like to say some-
thing nice about the electric-lady, but fear to
arouse the jealous ire of the newspaper man who
weekly devotes half-a-column to raving about her
charms.
*# * *
With the thermometer standing at four-
teen degrees above Hades point, and the dust
blowing three gales and-a-half, Boxing Night, at
the Melbourne theatres, evinced decided ten-
dencies in the direction of being a grimy, clammy
undertaking of a painful character. Two, at
least, of the new shows barely sufficed to fill every
available seat, while even the pantomime went
with less “go’’than old Widow O’Brien, at the
Opera House. Notwithstanding that “ Fun on
the Bristol ” is no better than it was last time
(rather less so in sundry particulars) it has been
tearing round with insane fury since the 21st inst.,
and the Widow’s latest cruise promises to cut the
record. Yet only the unique excellence of Mr.
Sheridan’s performance prevents his entertain-
ment from being swept off the face of the modern
stage by a whirlwind of well-merited scorn. That
historic creation supplies the one touch of Nature
which makes the whole world grin.
** * *
More than the usual improvement upon a
first appearance will be necessary to keep ‘ Cin-
deralla ” long in the land at Melbourne Royal. A
large sum in hard cash seems to have been lavished
upon the pantomime, the transformation scene is
a work of high art. and ballet-girls of uncertain
age are as plentiful as. rabbits in the interior.
That much of the gorgeousness fell as flat as a
flounder last Thursday night was hideously ap-
parent, the most notable failure being a football-
match perpetrated by a mob of nervous females
who appeared to be suffering from a conviction
that the critical eye of the leery larrikin was flash-
ing contempt at their abortive struggles to keep
“ on ” the blessed ball instead of allowing it to
trickle down among the fiddlers below. Devised,
probably, as a sop to the nobility and gentry of
Collingwood and Simlh Melbourne, this idiotic
melee missed its mark with melancholy precision.
A toy steeplechase between dwarf ponies also
failed to excite the populace, and several other
novelties were not much more humorous, and de-
cidedly less impressive than a superannuated
sexton. With so much money in the show, how-
ever, it will be rough upon the management if
“ Cinderella ” doesn’t take a turn for the better
shortly, under which circumstances comment
upon the comic-opera company engaged to hold
up this piece of flabby splendour is kindly de-
ferred, out of regard fe r their feelings.
* * *
Early impressions of “That Doctor Cupid,”
at the Princess’s, are likewise conducive to sorrow
and amazement. A worthy ambition to break out
in a new direction doubtless inspired Mr. Robert
Buchanan to write a comedy which is fantastic
without being funny, and hasn’t even the virtue
of originality in its puerile preposterousness.
Briefly “That Doctor Cupid ” is the story of an
uninteresting spendthrift, who throws a bottle off
the stage, whereby an imp emerges from the back
of a fireplace under the lame pretence that he was
released from the bottle. It is impossible to
accept the imp as other than a hollow fraud from
the start, and when he states that he is Cupid, or
the Devil —his exact capacity being a matter for
tired conjecture all the time—everybody feels con-
vinced that he is a little liar, anyway. For a
time this dreary delusion can’t move without
somebody producing a creaking noise, to make
believe that he is rusty, but later on Cupid seems
to get oiled, and then he fools around with the
spendthrift at the Bath Assembly-rooms. Alleged
to be the spendthrift’s devoted imp, engaged in
working out his own salvation or something
equally stupid, Doctor Cupid causes all the wrong
people to fall in love with one another, until the
spendthrift reminds him that he is a volatile idiot.
Then the mockery from a bottle puts things
right—a circumstance of no real interest what-
ever—and the spendthrift gets married to
an heiress who isn’t of the least consequence. A
few others are left to get married if they wish,
although they might be buried to better advan-
tage, and the agony concludes with an apotheosis
of Cupid, which ought to be put into the panto-
mime without delay. This purposeless affair is
mounted and glazed regardless of expense, the
action being carried back to last century in order
that the character may wear pale pink coats, wigs,
and similar reminders of Hopetoun’s imported
footmen. Elton (who has reached that point of
greatness where the term “ mister ” is degrading
rather than otherwise) plays Doctor Cupid for
more than the absurdity is worth, and evergreen
Harwood pops up once again as a choleric old
uncle. They are both at home as far as possible,
but poor Herbert Flemming makes a mess of a
stuttering part in which he would be a dire nui-
sance if he attained absolute perfection. Hans
Phillips and other gentlemen conduct themselves
as such, while the ladies cut foolish figures in
hideous apparel. Miss Janet Achurch endows
the heiress with all the sweet tenderness of a brick,
and if Sass fails to betray emotion when Elton
gammons to have come out of a bottle, it is no
more than might be expected from any intelligent
person.
** * *
“Judge Not” is the name of the new
drama selected to re-introduce Mr. Dampier and
Co. to their admiring congregation at the “ Allee ”
—a pet term for the Alexandria, believed to have
its derivation in the Chinese. There are live solid
acts to “ Judge Not,” and this great moral lesson
for wives and families is embellished by two
mechanical scene changes of stupendous ingenuity,
not to say appalling completeness. In the twink-
ling of an eye, for instance, a cold, cruel prison is
converted into a smiling farm-yard, guarded by a
faithful live dawg and dominated by a Couple of
rampageous hens who fill the drama with a
realistic cluck and fight something fearful when
one lays more eggs right off than the other. The
manager has a cayenne pepper recipe which causes
these two birds of prey to be eternally laying
eggs and fighting, so anyone in search of a rousing
good hen-tussle can depend on getting his money’s
worth every evening until further notice. A
quantity of plot, quite apart from these feathered
combatants, assists to shove “ Judge Not” along.
In the course of much unhappy persecution the
heroine is carted off to gaol, where she drags
out an embittered existence as “ Number
Fifteen,” to the distress of a loving husband
who believes in her innocence through iron
bars until it appears that another Number
Fifteen has gone the way of all flesh. Whereupon
he clothes his mad regrets in a dress suit and goes
mashing a Govingment ’Ouse kind of woman, who
is on the verge of hanking him into the bonds of
bigamy when his original persecuted charmer
arrives upon the scene with a view to nursing her
oheeild. The innocence of this nice young creature
is ultimately proved by a retired tragedian,
assisted by a stage-struck Tilda, so all the villains
are put to confusion, and a number of benevolent
people unite with the audience in expressing their
complete satisfaction. Mr. Dam pier scores in the
humorous part of the retired tragedian, and Miss
Katherine Russell is a lively Tilda. The dark-
eyed Miss Lily has come back looking particularly
plump and pleasing, considering how they do per-
secute her, and when she speaks her lines a little
faster—a hint for two or three others of the com-
pany—she will be more blooming than the last
rose of summer. Boothman is virtuous as usual,
and the terrible Baker hurls helpless womanhood
to the ground with a ferocity that cannot be too
highly commended,
#* * *
A Children’s Festival—containing a street
in old London, Temple Bar, brass bands, a Christ-
mas Tree, and innocuous performances of a sooth-
ing description—is ministering to holiday needs at
the Exhibition Building. The hall once sacred to
Cowen has been set apart for a Richardsonian
Show, in which a party of furious Thespians enact
gory tragedies beyond all understanding. When
everybody has died a violent death, and the re-
mainder are saved, saved! a pale vision, alleged
to be Mrs. Richardson’s ghost, appears in the
background, and the slaughter ceases until it is
time to begin over again.
#- # * *■
Snazelle is putting in a farewell fortnight
at the Athenaeum ; the St. George’s, and Victoria
are advertising changes of programme ; Santley
chortles his revered lay at the Town Hall, while
the Cyclorama, Pain’s Fireworks, the Hibernian
Hall, &e., &c., make Christmas hay in accordance
with ancient custom.
** * *
We read that—
Latham, attorney for Morgan and Co., lithographers,
in their suit against Manager James Allison, of Aus-
tralia, recently executed a very sharp piece of practice in
law in Chicago. Latham had capiased Allison for an old
debt, and the latter deposited as security for his bail-bond
a gold watch and chain, a four-carat diamond ring, and a
scarf-pin of value, the jewellery being valued at 1; COdols.
Upon trial of a motion to quash the capias the judge set
aside the writ, holding that Allison’s body could not be
held and the bond was ordered released. Allison then
asked his bondsmen for the jewellery and was informed
that Latham, having seen that the judge was likely to
quash the writ of capias, had quietly slipped out during
the proceedings, obtained the proper papers, and served a
writ of garnishee upon the holder of the jewellery.
Latham now has a lieu on Allison’s jewellery instead of
upon his body.
This little episode has, we are informed, by no
means pushed forward the genial James’ arrange
ments for shipping his “ Wild West ” show to
these shores.
At Poverty Point.
Patti receives for every London concert £7OO. In North
America this winter she gets £lOOO a night. In South
America last year she got £l2OO a night. In 28 years she
has only disappointed her audience by being absent six
times. No wonder.
Barnum says that Noah’s Ark wasn’t a bad show con-
sidering that there was no competition.
Marshal MacMahon is about to publish his memoirs. As
only six copies will he published the book will be a valu-
able one. Mac.’s modesty is a family characteristic. The
Australian MaoMahons, of theatrical fame, have it badly.
When a young man, Gladstone wrote a blank-verse
tragedy of classic mould ; this he read some years ago to
Mrs. Langtry. Nothing came of it, however, and now, it
is said, Druriolanus Harris is about to produce it.
The “ Minnie Palmer ” now figuring in a Loudon
theatrical divorce-case, is not “ My Sweetheart,” but the
other fellow's.
We learn through Figaro that the Frkmdenblatt states
that the director of , the Brisbane Opera House, Queens-
land, Australia, has translated into Yolapuk the libretto
of Meyerbeer’s “ ProphCte,” and has caused his version
to be performed at his theatre. The Prbmbenblatt goes
on to say that although the prices were greatly increased,
the representations of the “ Prophete” in Yolapuk at
tracted such a crowd that ten other performances were
immediately announced ! ! !
The increased immoral suggestiveness of the partially-
concealed over the nudely-exposed is once more exemple-
fled at the unctuously pious Baruum’s Olympia, where a
lady-acrobat equipped in the ordinary feminine garb
turns somersaults from the shoulders of one male com-
panion to another “ with great neatness, revealing little
of her lower extremities.” We read that the Prince of
Wales watched her very intently.
Jones Got an engagement yet?” Seedy’UnYes,
I’m playing a small part at the Fashion Theatre.”
“ What salary?” “No salary ; but the part calls for a
meal on the stage, and so I get something to eat.”
On “ Tummy’s” visiting “ Olympia ” circus he assured
Barnum that it would not be his last appearance. On
which the grand old humbug, in a voice broken with
emotion, told the Prince that he “ nad made an old man
exceedingly happy.” Barnum may yet have a chance of
running the Prince with other dethroned monarchs as a
side show.
It is said that Sarah Bernhardt, hitherto a professed
atheist, and yet a prey to superstition, intends to become
a nun.
Tragedian Miln is, we regret to see, insolvent. Liabili-
ties, £1447 ; assets, £1314.
Tub Bulletin office has been deluged with London
press notices eulogising the ventriloquial performances of
the Australian-born Fred. W. Millie, now showing at the
Pavilion.
Leonard St. Lawrence, of Bland Holt’s Company, the
John Jeremiah Lamb of “ New Babylon” has married
Mrs. Levell of the Nag’s Head Hotel, Wellington. Leonard
has found his level; he prefers the bar to the stage.


WOLFE’S SCHNAPPS!
Be on your guard for FRAUDS when purchasing.
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
At Mark Young's Pier Hotel, Frankston, near
Melbourne, superior accommodation for visitors.
Fresh and salt-water baths in house, close to sea
baths. Horses and buggies for hire.
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
Artificial Teeth (high-class dentistry) at Reform
Fees. Full Set Vulcanite, £5; Gold and Vulca-
nite, £10; Gold. £l5. Nitrous Oxide Gas daily,
10s. fid. .T. I. Marshall, Dentist. Only address-
-410 George-street, Sydney.
Bona-Fide announcement. Highest cash price
given for all kinds of gent’s left off clothing.
Dress-suits for sale, or hire. Letters promptly
attended to by QUITTENTON BROS., 11l
Russell street, MELBOURNE. [Nmnuinher,
ms.)
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
Everybody should use Pemoll's latest best Snow-white
Patent Rou.fr Fi.our. It is the greatest success of the
How the Mulligatawney Extended
Scrip Came Down.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
'•Hauraki Goldfields, Warden’s Office,
“ December 2, 1879.
“To All Whom it May Concern.
“ You are hereby called upon to show cause within 14
days from date hereof, why the Mulligatawney Extended
Licensed Holding, 14 men’s ground, situated at Moana-
taiari Creek, bounded on the North by the Hibernia
Licensed Holding, and on the East, South and West by
unoccupied ground, should not be forfeited, for the
reason that it has not been fully and continuously manned
in accordance with the terms of the license and the pro-
visions of the Mining Companies Act. *
“ William Fraser, Warden and R.M.”
SUCH was the notice posted one morning ten years
ago, on the uneven surface of the Mulligatawney
Holding. I smiled when I read the official blue
document which fluttered gently against the
charred stump of a kauri pine and made a mental
comment, not untinged with sarcasm, that the
mining authorities were becoming very prompt
with their forfeitures all of a sudden. Why ! the
Mulligatawney had been duffered out years
before. It was fully a decade since a pick had
been put into it, and if my recollection had not
told me that, the very appearance of the mine it-
self would have done so. “ Ichabod ” was written
in unmistakeable characters on the rotting
poppet-legs of the disused shaft, on the partly-
caved drive and on the square of oxide that
showed where the truckers’ plat had stood. The
glow-worms spun their glistening, glutinous webs
in the crystalised vugs of the quartz-reef with as
much impunity as spiders did theirs amongst the
gear of the rusted winding engine. “ Fully and
continuously manned ! ” I chuckled. “And pray
who’s going to fully and continuously man it, I’d
like to know ? ” And my solitary merriment was
echoed back by the miner-scarred hillsides around
me.
Ah! these were my halcyon days. Youth,
vigour, an outdoor occupation—a free, bold, rol-
licking life right on the frontiers of civilisation in
the fairest province of the fairest land of New
Zealand, New Zealanders have no aspirations
for Fairyland, and scarcely any for Heaven.
Their everyday-experience of their natural sur-
roundings approximates to either ideal. As a
local poet hath it :
Then we turned from murmurous forest-land,
And rode over shingle and silver sand,
For so fair was the earth in the golden autumn,
We sought no further for Fairyland.
We expatriated New Zealanders, in the bitterness
of exile, sometimes condemn our country “ as the
last place that God madeand then, as the
wealth of happy memory drives away bitterness,
we make the reservation almost unreservedly,
“ But He made it well.”
However, all this has nothing to do with the
Extended absolutely nothing. A fortnight
after I had read the notice of forfeiture I
attended the sale of the Mulligatawney Ex-
tended Licensed holding “ with poppet-legs,
winding-engine, trucks, tramrails, and all appur-
tenances.” An old Cornish miner bid 355., more in
jest than in earnest, and amidst the laughter of
the loafers who were hanging about the auction-
room, it was knocked down to him. “ I bet ’ee
two pint a’ beer I mek a fiver out o’ the tumber i’
the poppets,” said old Frank with deprecatory
emphasis to those who sneered at his bargain.
And when I remembered the decay and desola-
tion of the mine I inwardly thought that it was
lucky for the old man that no one took him at his
word and made the wager.
Next day there was great excitement amongst
the mining community. “ The Corner,” where
the sharebrokers were wont to lounge, became a
scene of activity. The Hibernia G.M. Co. had
out an 18-inch specimen leader in its northern
drive. The shot of gold was nine inches wide,
strong and well-defined, and accompanied by
ruby silver and other indications of a big per-
manent patch. It had been struck by the mid-
night shift, and before midday the scrip had gone
up from 30s. to £l4. Unkind people said that the
manager and his relatives had skinned the market
before the news of the discovery was allowed to
transpire, but then that’s always done in gold-
mining, and the low standard of morality current
enabled those who were not in the swim to philo-
sophically take the view that those who were were
“ darned lucky.” The patch was only 12 feet from
the Mulligatawney Extended boundary, and before
nightfall old Frank had sold his title to the claim
to a hastily-formed syndicate for a couple of thou-
sand sovereigns. “ I mek ’ee a present o’ the
poppets, too,” said Frank, with a burst of comic
generosity, as he raked in the last £2O of the
purchase-money.
Before Christmas the new Mulligatawney G.M.
Co. was registered, with a capital of £30,000,
£15,000 paid up, so that the “ first robbers ” got
there with both feet. The Hibernia carried the gold
right to the boundary-line. It was so rich there
that it was stripped down with a cold-chisel while
two mining surveyors stood by with plumb-lines
to see that the boundary wasn’t passed by a frac-
tion of an inch. A chamber was opened out in
the Mulligatawney ground, a winze started, and
in the first twelve feet of sinking two dividends of
ss. a share were returned. The scrip went up to
£7, making the capital value of the mine £210,000.
Everyone had the Mulligatawney fever ; everyone
who had a few pounds to spare put it into Mulli-
gatawneys, and people congratulated one another
and said that the old Caledonian days had come
back again. It was a real bonanza, and no one
had any dread of getting “ into the soup ” over
the Mulligatawney.
The boom had reached its zenith by the middle
of January ; there were sellers on ’change at £7 55.,
buyers at 15s. less. There were more sellers than
buyers, but that, we told each other, was because
work on the run of gold in the winze had been
temporarily stopped through the presence of
noxious gas. In a day or two they would get a
fan to work, and we’d see them up to £2O before
Anniversary Day.
I somehow mistrusted the mine ; the impression
that I had formed on the morning I read the
notice of forfeiture had been unfavourable, and
then I was annoyed that this stupid feeling had
prevented me from taking up promoter’s shares in
the syndicate. Fortune had been within my
grasp and I had spurned it. As mining reporter
>n the principal newspaper of the goldfield it was
ny duty to inspect the Mulligatawney Mine twice
,r thrice a week, and I always took a sort of
mournful interest in these inspections. One
morning in the middle of January I paid the
place a business visit.
“Harn’t you heerd that they be gas in the
winze,” said the manager, a burly, ill-favoured
brute, who was no special favourite of mine.
“Well, I did hear so,” I said; “isn’t it out
yet ?”
“No, it be there still,” answered he, gruffly,
and with an unnecessary assertiveness that
puzzled me. He stood hesitatingly at the mouth
of the drive and there was a sort of subdued
menace in his whole demeanour.
“Well, good day,” I said, and turned to go. I
went a few hundred yards down the track towards
the township, then I turned off into the bush, and
throwing myself under a stately punga sought
meditative solace in a pipe. My reverie was
broken by the sound of footsteps on the track
below me. There was the clumsy form of the
manager hastening town wards. Then my thoughts
turned to the Mulligatawney and my recent in-
terview, and culminated in a speedy resolve.
Presently I returned to the mine, and making
sure that my movements were unobserved, pro-
ceeded cautiously through the long, tortuous
tunnel to the chamber. The gas that accumulates
in gold mines for want of ventilation is non-
inflammable ; it is generally pure carbonic acid
gas and instantly fatal to life. But I knew that
where even a candle would burn properly I should
be safe. I lowered my dip by means of a string to
the bottom. It burned brightly.
Matters were getting exciting. I felt that I
was on the verge of a discovery. Down the wind-
lass-rope I went, excitement lending me speed, and
found that what I had half suspected had hap-
pened. A clay slide had crossed the reef and
had cut off the shot of gold. Mulligatawneys
weren’t worth a snap of the finger ! What a com-
motion this’ll cause when I get back to the
“ Corner,” I thought, and won’t I be considered
smart! There’s no money in it, though—and I
promised myself that I wouldn’t be got at but
keep a silent tongue. “Gas, indeed!” said I aloud,
and I laughed at the consternation which would
be caused amongst the rascals who had sought
to conceal the “ peter-out ” until they had got rid
of their shares.
“Gas! Tit gie thee gas! Damn thee, take
HIS HURRY—A SOLEMN FACT.
“HULLO, OLD MAN, WHAT’S YOUR HURRY?”
“I’M OFF TO CATCH THE MAILBOAT.”
“WHAT’S THE MATTER? BOOKS NOT STRAIGHT, EH?”
“NO. I’M MARRIED TO TWO WOMEN IN THIS ACCURSED COUNTRY AND
EACH OF THEM HAS A LOVER. IT’S TIME TO CLEAR.”
!” That, was a lump of mullock, aimed with
malicious force, but bad aim, at the crown of my
head by the manager, who had unexpectedly
returned. It just missed me, but I felt as mean
and funky a mining reporter as ever breathed.
“ Thou’lt never come out o’ that alive, me smart
Jack-a-dandy!” and the next moment he was
slithering down the rope with murder in his eye
and a heavy truck-axle in his hand.
My tongue was sticking to_ the roof of my
mouth, the blood drummed in my head and
then tingled in my feet, but the instinct of
self - preservation is strong in the least cou-
rageous of us, and as my friend came within
reach I hit him over the back of the head with
a pick-handle and shinned up the rope, while
at the bottom lay the manager stunned. I had
killed him, I thought as I looked down, but lie
didn’t give me a chance to experience the remorse
that homicides are said to feel, for he presently
raised himself on his elbow, and swore with the
vigour and completeness that his situation war-
ranted. Ho staggered to his feet and grasped the
rope. “ Not much 1” said I, and whipping out
my jack-knife, severed it. He cursed a lot more,
but as I leaned on the windlass-bole and let him
see that I maintained my equanimity, he changed
histone to a temporising snivel. “Lemmeup.
Muster, and I’ll say no more about it!” I smiled
down on him a faint smile, which he apparently
took for a negative. “Lemme up and 111 gie
thee a hundred.” i just beamed down on him.
“Five hundred, then?” I shook my head.
“ You’re precious anxious to get out of this, I
said. “How many Mulligatawnies have you
got?” “ Five thousand, and I’ll gi<‘ thee half to
femme up and stow thy gab.”
Well, every man’s got his price, and perhaps if
I’d been sure of getting a legal transfer of the
shares and a whole skin I’d have closed with his
offer. The very fact that I couldn’t trust him
made me malignant, and I again declined.
“Ta-ta!” I shouted, as I straightened myself
up from the windlass; “I’m off to town to blow
the gaff on your plant, and then I’ll bring ‘ the
Corner’ up to have a look at you, with the bottom
knocked out of your swindle.” _
The entrapped manager relieved his reel-
ings with some flowers of profanity culled
from his copious Cornish vocabulary. I could
hear his irritated remarks booming through
the working's of the mine almost until I reached
the open air. I then carried out my intention and
had a little “ extra ” printed at the office of my
newspaper, I remember a few of the sensational
headings. They were something like this
THE MULLIGATAWNEY MIN E.
STRANGE DOINGS.
THE LODE EXHAUSTED.
OUR REPORTER TRAPS THE MINE MANAGER.
The “ extra ” gave the gist of the matter in 80 or 90
lines. And, my eye ! didn’t it cause a sensation !
Mulligatawnies dropped to a pound inside of five
minutes. Brokers, speculators, and douce, quiet,
business people rushed hither and thither, and
very soon the office of the Hauraki Banner and
Miners’ Advocate was besieged by an excited
mob. “Where’s yer minin’ reporter?” they
yelled. “Let’s have the truth of it! the truth ! ”
they shrieked, hysterically. So I mounted the
counter, made a little speech and invited my
hearers to accompany me to the Mulligatawney.
Well, to cut a long story short, the manager
has just finished a ton years’ sentence for murderous
assault and conspiracy to defraud, and that
electro-plated tea-service on the sideboard there—
it’s getting a bit brassy-looking now—was all I
made by bringing down the price of Mulligatawney
scrip.
J. A. PHILP.
The other day an Adelaide judge sentenced
a man to a long sentence of penal servitude and
the lash. The Cabinet has now remitted the lash
part of the sentence. A gleam of intelligence ap-
parently steals into the brutality of Adelaide law.
In Melbourne, however, one Boss has just had
his death-sentence “commuted ” to imprisonment
for life and two lashings ! _ At this rate the time
has arrived for the Victorian people to have their
laws made by the bull-pup that chewed the
woman’s ear off —and administered by the pig
that ate the baby last week.
The orthography of our great-grand-
mothers was uncertain. The old Duchess of
Gordon—not that she was our great-grandmother
—used to say to her cronies ; “You know, my
dear, when I don’t know how to spell a word, 1
always draw a line under it, and if it is spelled
wrong it passes for a very good joke, and if it is
spelled right it doesn’t matter. ”
Dear Bulletin,—Mr. J. J. Spruson, of Sydney,
makes a great blunder when he says that the Victorian
Catholic Young Men’s Societies “are no small factor in
local politics.” These.societies, which are at a low ebb,
are not, nor have they ever been, of the slightest political
importance. For one reason, their rules strictly pro-
hibit them from taking any part in politics; and, what is
more important still, not one-fourth of their members are
old enough to exercise the franchise. Mr. Spruson made
a great mistake in referring to the V.C.Y.M.S. as models
for imitation; he made a greater mistake still when he
ranted about their political influence. The fact is, the
ablest of the Victorian Catholic young men find a broader
field for their energies in the ranks of “ Purves’ ” Patriots,
and that is the reason why the V.C.Y.M.S. is anything
hut a howling success. —Walter Wauhioit., Kyneton,
Deo. 10.
Premier Parkes, styled “ Sir Joseph ' by
the Loudon SPECTATOR and “Sir Harry” Parkes
by the Loudon Echo, is credited by the latter
paper with being “the creator of the best system
of popular education in the British Empire,” and
the chief advocate of Federal Australian Govern-
ment. In an Albury speech the Premier, there-
fore, truthfully remarked that “ we are now very
imperfectly known in some parts of the world.
He had had a month or two ago a letter addressed
to him, ‘ His Excellency, Lord Henry Parkes, of
Tasmania, in Victoria’—and even his name was
not perfectly spelt. Which all goes to prove that
the less some people arc known the more thc> arc
likely to be admired.
“ How I Shot the Policeman.”
(FOR THE BULLETIN. )
He was a short, fat, squat, bald-headed
officer with a keen instinct for whisky, and an un-
limited capacity for taking things “easy;” he
would have been a tall man had Providence not
turned round so much of his legs to make his
feet. He used to “mooch” about the village at
night, and if he saw any lights burning late in the
houses, he would casually look in to see that
nothing was amiss, and pretend to be very
vigilant and on the alert, and he very often was
rewarded with a stiff drink of whisky. If he had
no excuse to go in, he used to rattle at the gates
to see that the fastenings were all right, and
when the proprietor came out he would say, “All
right, sir ! I was just seeing that the gate was
fast! Very dry night, sir ! ” And this generally-
ended in a liquid and spirituous manner. But
the system one night resulted in serious damage
to the constable himself, as I shall proceed to
explain.
* * *
I was reading for an examination and
burning the midnight oil; in front of the house
was a small garden, into which an old grey
horse that belonged to an Irishman up the
village was constantly straying down the road
and making his way. He could lift the
gate-catch with his nose, and many a time in
the stilly night I used to hear him rattling at it
trying to get the gate open. Then I would
leave my books, and sally out and drive him away 7
with language and blue metal. Next time he
happened to be loose he would play the same
game. He became very crafty too, and would
clear out like lightning the moment he heard any-
one stirring in the house, so that it became a most
difficult matter to land a rock on him at all.
Tired of this kind of thing I one night prepared
a little surprise for him. I got a two-pound dumb-
bell, laid it ready in the balcony overlooking the
gate, so that I could rush out and get it the
moment I heard him : and I calculated to give
him the hardest knock he ever had. Then I went
back to the books and read on.
* # #
The night wore on and midnight ap-
proached : it was dark as the inside of a cow, and
a little wind was blowing. Suddenly I heard a
faint “rattle, rattle” down at the gate. I drew
a long breath, slipped noiselessly into the balcony,
grasped the dumb-bell and let it go with terrific
force right at a dim object just looming through
the pitchy darkness. The astute reader will, of
course, have divined that it was not the old grey
horse this time. It was the policeman. The two-
pound iron dumb-bell had struck him fair on the
temple ; if it had hit him anywhere else it would
have killed him.
* # *
He threw up his hands and fell like a dead
man. I rushed to his assistance. It is useless to
try and set out half the things that flashed through
my brain as I rushed downstairs. In my mind’s
eye I saw myself before the coroner’s jury ; I saw
myself at the Criminal Court with Judge Win
deyer trying me ; I heard the jury bring in a ver-
dict of guilty with a strong recommendation to
mercy, and I knew that meant hanging for certain
—as people recommended to mercy always perish
on the scaffold in Australia. I saw a blotched
diagram of the locality published in the daily
papers with a cross to mark the spot where the
policeman fell, and an asterisk to show the posi-
tion of the murderer when he hurled the blood -
thirsty dumb-bell. I saw my portrait—that of a
dreadful-looking ruffian —in the Town and
Country Journal —and then, having reached the
prostrate form of the blue-bottle, I lifted him in
my arms and ascertained that he still lived.
With tender care I bathed his alabaster
brow; I watched with eagerness as he slowly
came round ; as soon as he was conscious I began
to apologise, to explain, to grovel. He listened
for a while and then he said, “Oh, it’s all right,
Banjo. It was an unfortnit haccident. Do you
happen to have a little whisky in the house ? My
tongue is dry enough to strike matches on.”
* #
I loaded him up with whisky, gave him a
substantial Christmas-box and sent him on his
way as good as new. I believe you could shoot
him with dumb-bells every night in the week on
the same terms.
THE BANJO.
“Champagne,”Mr. Pat. Sheedyia recorded
as having said, as he looked at a glass of if
steadily, “ makes a poor Irishman feel like a rich
•Tew.” —Ex.
Lord Charles Mudford—“l -or want
er —to marry your—er —daughter.” The, pater—
“ Er—yes —but which one?” His lordship
“ Ton honor, no preference, don’t-cher-know !
They’ll inherit equally, I suppose?” Life.
“ What induced a married woman of your
standing,” said the newspaper reporter, “to leave
such a charming family and elope?” “Because,”
sobbed the wretched creature, “ I had never had a
compliment in my life, and I knew if I did some-
thing atrocious all the papers would say that 1
was handsome and attractive.” — Judge.
A lunatic inspector was lately requested to
address a certain patient, who deemed himself
Julius Caesar, as “your imperial majesty.” On a
subsequent visit he again addressed the patient
by the same title. “ What do you mean?” was
the reply; “don’t talk nonsense. I’m Plato.”
“Oh!” said the inspector; “I thought you were
Julius Caesar last year.” “Well, yes,” replant
the lunatic ; “so I was, but that was by another
mother!” This is a very pretty yarn, but The
Bulletin knows a man, undoubtedly sane on
most points, who believes he is Henry Y.


Foreign & colonial exchange bank
OF AUSTRALASIA. Limited.
Sydney —Bo King Street.
Melbourne— 369 Collins Street.
London Bankers —Australian Joint Stock Bank,
No. 2 King William Street, London, E.C.
Authorised Capital, £500,000.
T. S. RICHARDSON, Esq., Managing Director.
This Bank undertakes the Exchange of Money.
both International and Intercolonial, includ-
ing the Coinage oe all Foreign Nations, in
addition to all usual and customary banking busi-
ness.
Deposits Received.
3 years per cent.
12 months 8 per cent.
6 months 7 per cent.
3 months 6 per cent.
Communications to be addressed to “The
Managing Director.”
A,SAUNDERS,
Watch Manufactorer & Jeweller,
813 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
(Nearly opposite Railway Station).
For Watches and Jewellery , send for my Prior List
(Illustrated). Post Free.
ana t,,b Unrivalled Keyless Watch,
Guaranteed. Post Free. SOs.
Gent.’s English Levers (full cap) from £8 10s
IW Ladies’ Beautiful Silver Watches from £1 10s.
Gold Watches and Jewellery of every description.
Country Residents and Visitors to Sydney call or send
to A. SAUNDERS, 813 Geo nr e Street (nearly opposite
Railway Station), SYDNEY, ’
CHRISTMAS PRESENTS!
For Good, Useful, Amusing or Instructive Christmas
F resents, we wish to draw attention to the f ollnuing goods.
At this time of the year
Magic Lanterns
are always in great demand. Our Lanterns are always
good and serviceable, not mere toys, and this year really
cheaper than ever, as will be seen by the following prices.
Black Enamel (English pattern) Lanterns, with brass
mounts, three lenses, lamp with globe, 1 doz. set well-
coloured slides, in case complete:—
f
ƒ
We have a very choice little outfit, in case, with lock
aw) key and everything complete, called
The “ CLIMAX,” price £2 10s.
This is made entirely of polished brass, and is a perfect
gem. The slides revolve instead of sliding, and include
with each Lantern such interesting subjects as Robinson
Crusoe, Red Riding Hood, i’aas-in-Boots, Elephant's
Revenge, celebrated men, &c. (eight pictures to each tale),
as well as comic, moving and rotating slides. The whole
forms one of the neatest, nicest, and most fascinating
presents that could he chosen.
Model Steam Engines.
Model Steam Boats.
In immense variety at extremely moderate prices. These
are excellent presents for the boys, as besides being always
amusing and entertaining they arc also instructive. We
have perfect working
Model Vertical Engines at ... 4/6 to A 3 0
Model Steam Locomotives at 7/6 to 3 5
Model Steam Boats at ... 10/- to 215
All fitted with safety valve, so that there need be no fear
of explosion or railway calamities.
Optimus (regd.) Watches, 18s. 6d. each.
These marvellous Watches are too well-known to need
much description here. We have dozens of them showing
in our windows, and have every confidence that those who
try them will fully endorse our statement that they are the
handsomest, cheapest and best timekeepers ever made.
Opera and Field Glasses.
We have some very special goods in these. For the
ladies, handsome and powerful glasses in cases (leather or
plush), combining at once the reticule or handkerchief
bag and the opera glass case—price, 30/- and 85/- We have
Opera Glasses at all prices, from 7/6. To those wishing to
make their gentlemen friends presents, we would strongly
recommend Qur new “Randwick” Field Glass (just im-
ported), the best we have ever had. Wonderfully power-
ful glasses in leather and nickel, and contained in a solid
buff leather case, with sling. In three sizes—4o/-, 45/, 50/-
Photographic Outfits.
What nicer present could be made to the boys than
these. By them, perfect, well-finished photos, can, with
very little trouble, be taken of everybody and everything,
and afford endless amusement to everyone. Wc have the
complete turnout for carte de visite pictures for A 3, and
the same thing for cabinet pictures for £4 10s. Ours is
the best and cheapest place in Sydney for all kinds of
photographic goods.
Spectacles and Eye-Glasses
In silver and gold frames (in handsome cases), form highly’
pleasing and acceptable presents to the old folks. We
have splendid Brazilian Peebles in
Silver Frames at 17/6 to 22/6 ;
Gold Frames at 25/-, SO/-, 35/- to 60/-
Inttlals or names stamped in gold on cases without extra
charge.
Microscopes, Telescopes, Barometers,
Stereoscopes and Slides, &o.
We cannot mention here all the really beautiful goods
we have suitable for Christmas presents, but feel sure that
a visit to either of our shops will prove highly entertain-
ing, and enable all to invest their money in good, useful
things instead of wasting it in rubbish.
FROST & SHIPHAM,
Spectacle Makers, Opticians, Electricians,
474 George Street (opposite Fruit Markets),
687 George Street (near Liverpool Street),'
SYDNEY
Personal Items.
Sir James Martin commenced writing for
the newspapers at the age of 18.
Sir John Robertson is retrograding. He
has presided at a tea-and-tart meeting.
Queen Victoria is publishing a book of
verses. She wants to swap with Parke?.
Gerald Massey is about to collect -his
poems under the title “ My Lyrical Life.”
John Burns has refused £lOOO and ex-
pense? offered him for an Australian lecturing tour.
£ - Jimmy” Thomson, manager of Mel-
flonrne Standard, is now regarded as the Plira-
?oll of pressmen.
The father of the late John Finney Bear,
nf Tahbilk Vineyards, in 1848 sent Australian
champagne to England.
A London lady lias, we read, married
Baron Seidlitz. The baron will be the alkali: the
lady will be the tartaric acid.
His Honor Judge Jefi'eris and the Rev,
Pastor Wiudeyer have left Sydney for a while.
The Devil is in fora good time.
A very handsome monument has been
erected inthelittle bush cemetery at Faulconbridge
to the memory of the late Lady Parkes.
J. H. Hood, the new Victorian (tem-
porary) Supreme Court Judge, is the second
Victorian native who has got to the Bench.
A reverend gentleman not unconnected
with Stem Church, Adelaide, is said to have just
made a £20,000 to £30,000 “ punch ” in silver.
Alfred Bennett now urges that trial by
jury is a failure. The little boy who ate the whole
watermelon said that watermelons were a failure.
Sir Henry Wrenfordsley has been flourish-
ing in Adelaide of late. As he has a free railway
pass he may yet be running over to Sydney to
become a judge again.
The Ai if. newspaper, always bitterly op-
posed to Gavau Duffy the elder, now employs
Gavail Duffy the younger to defend its libel suits.
An Irish name helps them with the juries.
G. R. Sims was among the crowd of
“Pelicans ” who assembled, in “faultless evening
dress,” to see Peter Jackson knock all the in-
domitable British pluck out of Jem Smith.
An Edinburgh minister says in his lectures
that Burns was not so much given to habitual in-
temperance as were the men who wore the white
collar and tie in the Ayr presbytery in his day.
A Melbourne paper asserts that the prin-
cipal in an extensive diamond robbery at Hatton
Garden, London, some years ago, is residing in
Sydney, living in affluence on the proceeds of the
theft.
Marcus Clarke’s widow, in her capacity of
Deputy-Registrar for South Fitzroy, has been
giving startling evidence re the births and deaths
of illegitimate babies at a certain “ farm ” in her
district.
The octogenarian Sir George Macleay,
formerly a member of the N.S.W. legislature and
cousin to the newly-made knight, Sir William
Macleay, has just been and gone and married his
housekeeper.
Albert A ictor has been gambling away
much money in India whence ins father has re-
called him. Prior to leaving England ho flew
several kites at 80 per shent which were taken up
by a friend.
What is fame ? Melbourne Age speaks of
“ Mr. Burdekin Smith, Mayor of Sydney,” and
the Melbourne Standard writes of “ Messrs.
Critchett and Walker ” as Principal Under-
secretaries of N.S. Wales!
Mayor Harris, of Sydney, who is a teeto-
taller, lias been elected president of the N.S.W.
Local Option League. As Mayor Harris catered
so handsomely at his Centennial Hall ball, it may
safely be presumed that his wine-merchant’s bill
is the biggest of the year in N.S.W.
Stead has resigned the Pall Mall editor-
ship and is to start an illustrated review. In the
Pall Mall he won glory, but failed to make the
paper pay. Will he make his review pay ? Lon-
don periodicals, like the clubs, are endless, but
they are like the theatres in regard to finance.
The flight of a noble lord (making the third
of his rank) and a London actor of repute is now'
reported in connection with the West End
Gomorrah. The list of gentlemen whose names
are incriminated now includes two earls, a viscount
and baron also, a baronet, and some prominent
commoners.
Meeting George Francis Train one day in
a Sydney street, John Dunmore Lang, ever
thirsting for information, inquired if they had
the, law’ of primogeniture in America. “No,”
replied Train. “ What,” said the doctor, “no
entail?” “No,” said Train, “but w r e have a
cocktail.”
In an autograph-letter recently sold by
auction, Beaconsfield asks that a dishonoured bill
might bo renewed, and gives as a reason ; “ I am
at this moment engaged in the most important
public business, and do not wish to be troubled
with any commonplace business whatever, or to bo
embarrassed in my affairs.” This has a fine
Parkesian tw’ang about it.
Mr. Grantley Hyde .Fitzhardinge, the new
N.S.W. District Court Judge, comes from a well-
known legal family, and is a great boating man.
He has been at the Bar some twenty years, and
one of his first briefs (assigned) was in defence of
George Robert Nichols for the Parramatta River
murders in 1872, in which case he was assisted by
the now popular Q.C., Edmund Barton.
At the demonstration of bakers in Hyde
Park, a gentleman on the outskirts of the crowd
was vainly struggling to get to the platform
through the mass of human beings in front of
him, when Burns observed him. At a word from
the strike-leader the men moved right and left,
leaving an open way through the heart of the
crowd. Whereupon said Burns, “ That beats the
opening of the Red Sea hollow,”
The cable reporting Robert Browning’s
death recalls to mind one of the few smart sayings
credited to Lord Granville. A lady friend was
gushing over the Brownings’ baby, affirming that
said infant was “such an incomprehensible little
darling.” “Indeed,” suggested Granville, “then
we hav e now three ' incomprehensible*, and not
two incomprehensible,*.” Fora man who doesn’t
leave his bed before, two o’clock in the afternoon
that joke was not so bad.
Prince Bismarck, we read, is, in appear-
ance, now a feeble old man. His face is waxen
and flabby, and his hands are those of a very old
man—yellow and swollen in the joints and marked
with unnaturally big, blue veins. He is once
more becoming very fat abdominally, and Dr.
Schweninger is at his wit’s end to keep this flesh
down, for Bismarck is no h nger able to walk
much. To please his physician, he tries from
time to time, but his legs hurt him too much to
make this form of exercise possible. All this
tends to depress him, and the further fact that
his family have not been a long-lived race serves
to deepen his conviction that his days are
numbered.
It is recorded that Wolseley shines even
more as a courtier than as a censor. On his
return from Tel-el-Kebir, the Queen drank his
health at Balmoral, a most unusual compliment,
which apparently placed him in a terrible dilemma,
for there was no precedent, and to propose Her
Maj csty’s health in return seemed an assumption
of equality as between subject and sovereign.
Lord Wolseley rose. “ I beg your Majesty’s per-
mission," he said, “to offer a toast to the health
, '-'t Mfe/V
“A HAPPY NEW YEAR.”
of my gallant comrade in arms, His Royal High-
ness the Duke of Connaught, whose services and
whose courage have alike been conspicuous in
Egypt.” From the circumstance The Bulletin
gathers that the courtier is one in whom the liar
is nicely blended with the toady.
The circumstances of the death of Willie
Boucicault, eldest and favourite son of the
dramatist, were strangely painful. Chatterton
then managed Drury Lane, the Adelphi, and
Princess, At Drury Lane it was the last night of
Boucicault as the Shaughraun. Boucicault and
Chatterton were not on good terms. Boucicault
was determined to make a furious speech on the
Irish Question; Chatterton equally resolved to
stop him. Both had planted a strong body of
their partisans in the theatre. During the'per-
formance, Chatterton heard, but Boucicault did
not, of Willie Boucicault being killed in the Pad-
dington railway accident. It caused a revul-
sion of feeling, and in some autobiographic details
he brings out this very dramatic situation of real
life.
The other day some twenty of the Vic-
torian Opposition entertained Jimmy Munro,
their chieftain, at a farewell breakfast. When
they had filled the bumper fair with coffee or fizz
and tossed it off to the well-buttered toast of
Jimmy’s health, the whole company sang “For
he’s a canny old fellow,” whereupon James was
moved to present every admirer at the table with
his new visiting-card, specially prepared for the
trip to Yurrup. This simple little souvenir runs
as follows : *
Hon. James Monro, M.L.A. and J.P.,
Member of the Executive Council of Victoria.
President of the Real Estate Mortgage and Deposit Bank.
Limited.
Chairman of the Melbourne Trust, Finance and Banking
Co., Limited.
Vice-President of the Federal Bank of Australia, Limited.
President of the Federal Building Society,
Chairman of the Grand Coffee Palace Co., Limited,
&c., &c., &c., &c., &c.
Address: So-and-So, London, E.C.
Residence: So-and-So, Victoria.
The card, even as printed, is calculated to make
the old country sit up, and when Jimmy attends
gilded gatherings of the aristocracy it will take
a good long time to announce him if he gives
all those details to the flunkey. Nevertheless
the document conveys but an imperfect notion of
Jimmy’s true worth. Those five etceteras at the
finish are vague and unsatisfactory. They should
be replaced by—Pillar of the Y.M.C.A., Land
Boomer, Blue Ribbonite, Elder of the Kirk and
Child of Grace. Furthermore, Jimmy omitted
to mention that his future residence is the Better
Land, where letters may be left till called for,
Ex-Police Superintendent Lydiard has
just died at Bathurst (N.S.W.), aged 59. He was
the last of the supers, under the old “aristocratic”
system which prevent; d an ordinary constable
from hoping ever to get beyond the “three
sthripes.” Lydiard was once an officer of the
Victorian force and did some rough work in
the early days of Ballarat. He left for New
South Wales at a time, when smart men were
wanted, Mr. Edmund Fosbecy being bis mate.
Ben. Hall, Gilbert, and their follow-highwaymen,
held undisputed possession of the Western roads.
The super of that day bore a name well-known in
the Imperial annals of the colony, but was said to
be a little weak about the heart. Early in the
sixties, Hall and his gang held the Vale Road,
outside Bathurst, against all comers. The police
turned out with commendable alacrity, the super
at their head, but he found he had “forgotten
something,” and sending his men on returned to
Bathurst. That evening Ben. Hall and some
trusty retainers, all well-armed, entered the town
and paid a visit to the public-house kept by John
Declouet (locally known as “Dublin Jack”) in
Piper-street. Jack was the fortunate owner of a
very fine racing mare, which Mr. Benjamin Hall
desired to possess. Hall strode into the bar,
demanded the key, and was told by the Dubliner
to “go to the devil.” The bushranger was an
admirer of pluck and let Jack retain the mare.
After “shouting” all round, the gang retired.
Although the rangers were in Bathurst for hours
not a policeman was visible. Tins brought
matters to a climax. “ Slippery ' Charlie Cowper
told Inspector-General M‘Lerie that if he could
not suppress bushranging in towns he had better
look out for another billet. The hint was taken,
M.‘Lerie got a holiday, Lydiard took the post and
scoured the country from the Blue Mountains to
the Darling, the result being that bushranging
was soon a thing of the past. Mr. Lydiard, who
was the son of a naval captain and the grandson
of an admiral, retired on a big and well-deserved
pension a couple of years ago.
The late Judge Wrixon, father of
Righteous Wrixon, the present much-gilded
Attorney-General of Victoria, used to boast that
he never forgot a face, and has frequently been
known when passingsentencetoobservethathe had
met the prisoner at such and such a town. Prisoners
have been known to object to trial before Wrixon,
believing that this wonderful memory prejudiced
them, but to do the old man justice he never
allowed his knowledge to interfere until the jury
had found a verdict either way. If guilty, hi? ro-
membered it in the sentence, if the reverse he
still jogged their memories and cautioned them as
to their future conduct. His memory stood him
w ell on one occasion though in the wrong place.
Travelling to Beeohworth once, by Cobb and Co.,
and seated beside a comely, well-dressed dame,
the judge, to vary the monotony of the journey,
struck up a conversation, or at least laid the
foundation of one. Turning to his companion he
blandly observed that he had met her somewhere
before, as her face was very familiar to him, but
he couldn’t quite remember. The reply came like
a thunder-clap, to the amusement of the other
passengers : “ So you ought to remember, you
old vagabond, for you gave me three months
‘ hard ’ at the last Quarter Sessions, at Kihnore,
bad luck to you.” It is said that his Honor never
again exercised his memory for faces off the bench.
The Good Ship
Was rapidly foundering in the breakers. She had
repeatedly signalled for help and tired minute
guns, but the life-saving boat on shore was found
unseaworthy when wanted, and before it could bo
made good the gallant captain of the doomed ship
ran up the three flags shown at the beginning of
this paragraph, signifying “Too late.”
Too late ! what a world of agony is compressed
in those two little words. Too late for rescue.
Too late too save life.
Yef there was a time when it was not too late.
Before the vessel got among the breakers, before
the patient was given up as hopeless. As yet you
are beyond the breakers, and there is hope for you,
We want to save you,— to do you good.
Yon are not feeling well this spring ; your
appetite is fickle ; your eye-sight is not so keen as
it should be ; you are distressingly nervous ; yon
urinate more frequently than formerly ; your
bowels are constipated; you cannot sleep well;
etc. Yon take pills and doctor yourself a little,
but you feel no better. Yon consult your
physician who gives you a prescription or fixes
you up a bottle of medicine with the remark that
you will be all right in a few days. But his
prophecy proves untrue, and while, perhaps, feel-
ing no worse, you certainly feel no better. You
have no particular pain, and there is where the
danger lies. Your kidneys are affected, and as
they have few or no nerves cf sensation you are
unaware that they are diseased.
Just now is the time when you should have
help. Advanced Kidney Disease, which the.
doctors say they cannot cure, and which they do
not, is but another name for Bright’s Disease,
Your blood is loaded with impurities which the
kidneys do not excrete and which finds its way to
all parts of your system.
You are doctoring for symptom 7, when Kidney
Disease is at the; bottom of all your trouble.
Now, Warner’s Safe Cure is a medicine especially
adapted for all derangements of the Kidneys and
Liver. It has stood the test of ten years’ severe
trial and has come out triumphant. We know it
will do as represented, there is no guess-work
about it, and a million unsolicited testimonials
from the best people in the land can be produced
in proof of our assertion. Give this great remedy
a chance to cure you. It will do it, and not only
quickly but permanently.
Then be wise to day, that those terrible words,
“ Too late,” may not be written over against your
life.


ƒ
p A was an Artist to whom it was told.
2, Bis for Brown, a Bachelor
bold.
3.—C is a pair of the Bachelor's
chums.
4. —D is for Dog—and the story
now comes.
CD
5. I To drop metaphor, then, Brown
lived in a cottage at Manly,
where he kept bachelors’ hall.
The two friends were his fre-
quent visitors.
a « 'Well, hoys,” he said one evening, “1 m oil for
a few days, and if you- follows want to take
possession here while T in away and have a shot
at housekeeping, you re welcome. ‘ Mt *
say?” “Say! Why, that we jump at it, old
boy. Thanks ?
7.—And so it came about that one
Hnc evening they took posses-
sion.
10.—Proceeding to the back gate they
found the butcher there sure enough.
“ Mr. Brown told me to leave this here
reg’lar every day,” said he. “ Awfully
thoughtful of Brown !
jq. We draw a veil over th*
< letai 1 s of cookery and pass mtc
the banquet hall. Tough!!
\
13 Thev read in a cookery Wo ok that a tough steak
may* ho greatly improved by pounding it well be-
fore cooking.
] 4.__ “ Can’t stand this sort of thing.
Hadn’t wo betterchangeourbutcher
-—that is, Brown’s butcher?”
“ Dunuo, hardly worth while, Brown
returns to-morrow.”
B.—“ Hallo ! I say, what are wo
going to do for a cook ?
Jove, let’s do it ourselves,
eh 1 What a lark ! ”
'J.—“ By-the-bye, wonder if there’s
anything to cook never
thought of that.” Just then
there rang out on the evening
air “ Butch-ea-i-o-u ! ” Happy
thought 1
12. —Meanwhile they re-
marked that the dog in
the back yard howled
a good deal. By-the-
by, didn’t know Brown
kept a dog.
15.-—Brown : “ 1 )euced glad to get back—but, I
say—what's wrong with Ponto? I ordered
the butcher to leave some dogs-meat here
every day during my absence ; has he
done so 1 ”
A Tough Story from Manly.


*<V
/A'? suffuse, syay 6? eyyec/Sal cc S~
a ?/ y or 7 F - r
feoyfa /'y a ffi( y*/ ** a 9
" Sry ell a. rv-f "
, . Cgc^e-.M
l kui
The Queen cl’ Sweden, the Archduchess
Stephanie of Austria, President Carnot,
and many notable, personages in Europe,
r ,rc suffering from the epidemic. The
Gorman Emperor has recovered* from his
at tack.
z\eS d ° . c rnay
r/ ofv/<* s f r al' al /
\ „ I / y r ! /
£ OJp cfe///y c/ss coure <J.
A few months ago the Premier, Sir Henry
Parkes, conceived ltf6 idea of the presentation
of an address of gratulation to> Mr. Gladstone
on his eightieth birthday from the popular
branch of the Parliament of New South Wales.
The following / S *Cc^
S/°rc //y fa/_
l or more than half a century your world-
acicnowledged public life has flowed on through
the history ol the British Empire like a great
river wiibin secure aad fertile banks, ever
widening in its bounteous flow. As 'in stateli-
ness it approaches the infinite ocean beyond the
coniines' of mortal existence Its beneficent
volume is'more richly freighted with blessings
foi your country and for mankind.
Sue 7 cOclj effPCA Oj-
<f ezT'&y'P /) &.r'cc£/-<z/?fi &$?
77, f <T 0./y\ /y/ytC'ffiat r
(Sr A 7ZT vor/r a? et eftf/x’J j
</oo)o <J'rt / 7’7-a/ 0f
Aft ac/r- TApps? Ay /y/jAt/rp.
' The question of the selectton of a political
metropolis for Australasia is not regarded by
Sir Charles as one surrounded with very
great difficulties, and he suggests that the
selection of a metropolis is one which might
reasonably be left to her Majesty the Queen.
Sir Charles Tuppcr further thinks ' e'C
#
c o. p 7
% r
T(j 0/( f'/r
*fre a S yi
>Ke
'9f s
J \
A
A'-
-//v- c///£f' A/vu rsFo/i 0 • / * ur
/pass f/rfisa/pP Jus fra.//ay s farefed
era////(2,/~ /ajp fare Coifed awer ft fyort tiferp year
y/c/p ma , / f a J esA y A/ease fe fare fe/r Ca/>fAa/ f ’
//£/? a;/}j-/rsry Ad/p- coe//S// /eare JP/& y / u y fyy/r/
/fMdfsFo#p ~ l/pry Ue// t /pay* Tfyef Suppose (debate ff JfiflMy/yQ tf "
A MIXTURE.


s often.} & frtWvNvel'cafficV
C’-uA-ce So' ice aTD
Sein'd ouxc&4.
ƒ
fco t?t Cc
7, B. WHEELER & C0 M
M 5 C'lnrrnor Slrrrt, 81'DVF.V.
“ The leading Packet Tea in New South Wales
is the Famous Billy Tea. Its consumption is
at least double that of any other brand in the
market. ”
PACKED ONLY BY
James Inglie & Co.,
4 & 6 Dean’s Place, SYDNEY.
Deaf Forty Years.
o
The description of a simple remedy, by which
a complete cure of deafness and. noises in the head
of forty years’ STANDING has just been effected,
will be sent free to anyone who applies to
J. H. NICHOLSON,
175 William Street, Melbourne.
'WcuilnaßT do
w
m/UND.'
"lit iL
I'jSolc .F.MhEELER&
W. H. PALING & COMPANY, LIMITED,
11 AVK
356 George Street, SYDNEY,
,fi st Opened a Magnificent Lot of KTew Pianos from the celebrated Makers, Steinway, Erard, Uebel, Fenrich, Llpp, Eon’sch, Bluthner, Collat'd, and other
Also of the wonderful Victor Pianos a/fc £45 and Orerans No such Variety or Value elsewhere for Casit or Terms.
Society
One of the stained-glass-windows on the
Sydney Centennial Hall landings is said to be
a symbolical figure of N.S.W. ; the other alleged
to represent Captain Cook on the eve of the
colony’s discovery. The first is the figure of
remarkably-developed young person whose head
for some mysterious reason, is decorated with
ram’s horns. Her peculiarly aggressive figure is
partially obscured by a Union Jack ; and a n e
with a diagonal cross bearing stars, which is pre-
sumably intended for the Australian ensign, is
attached to her skirt in a style which is a parody
on Art and a bitter sarcasm bn
Reality. Captain Cook, whose
facial expression is that of a
thrice-convicted burglar tem-
pered by shame-faced regret—
for the discovery he has just
made? —is, however, principally
remarkable for the peculiar con-
struction of his lower extremities.
An irresistible desire to exclaim
with the vulgar little boy,
“ Twig his legs !’’ takes posses-
sion of every visitor, and most
of them give way to the tempa-
tion. It is a cruel calumny on
the great circumnavigator. No
human being afflicted with legs
of such horrible incongruity
would have ever wanted to dis-
cover anything but a grave
wherein he might have hidden
to escape the sarcasm of a
cruel world. N.S.W., the Para-
dise of Quacks, is Iffle Hell of
Art.
* * *
From time immemorial
the “ City Fathers ” have ap-
propriated to themselves the
privilege of branding their
names upon the streets, lanes,
byways, and stairways of the
cities which they ruled. In this
way, if in no other, posterity
will hear of the Smiths, Browns
and Robinsons, who have from
time to time filled the civic
chairs. Even the town pumps,
gateways, sewers and sanitary
conveniences (the “Bathurst-
street scent-bottle,” Sydney, is a
memorable example) have been
carefully used all over the
world to keep green the memory
of departed Whittingtons. The
retiring Mayor of Sydney, how-
ever, has topped all previous
attempts to achieve lasting local
fame and may fairly claim to be
easily first in his bid for long
remembrance. The colossal
characters in which the name of
“John Harris” is written on
the walls of the Centennial Hall
are as howling an outrage on
good taste as are the ghastly
carvings on the facade of the
Sydney General Post-office.
Nobody would begrudge Mayor
Harris some fitting memorial—
you see we are very cautious—
to mark the lengthy term of his
municipal service, but the bold,
staring sign referred to could
only convey to succeeding
generations an erroneous idea
of the modesty which is the
graceful characteristic of all
true greatness. After this Mayor
Harris will, we are sure, at once
proceed to erase, with an axe,
an inscription which, under the
circumstances, is an eyesore.
Not that we would wish to see
the good Mayor throw his name
away after he has taken it down
from the wall. He. can use it
on a cheque.
# * *
On tlie day of the Earl
of Hopetoun’s arrival in Mel-
bourne, Mrs. Buggins, of North
Melbourne, presented her hus-
band—a loyal muffin-and-crum-
pet baker —with twins, where-
upon—or shortly afterwards—
B. wrote to His Excellency,
asking if he would have any objection to the
young’uns being christened “Earl’’and “Hope-
toun ” respectively. The Governor has graciously
permitted the loyal Buggins to christen the batch,
as desired. Next time Mrs. B. thinks of increa-
sing the population, she will probably get the old
man to write to His Excellency for permission.
* . *• #
They have locked up a Sydney blind
beggar who, when searched, was found to be
worth £Oll 10s. \\cll, the banks only give you
5 per cent, on fixed deposits and a blind man with
a wife can Hardly do much on £45 a year. Let
the old man when he gets out of gaol start a
shixty per shent loan-office and be a red-hot curse
to the poor. That will be lawful, whereas it is a
crime to hold out your hat to people whom you
can’t see, and who, to do them credit, don’t happen
to see you very very often.
* * *
The Countess of Onslow lately invited a
carefully-selected number of the female employes'
in the Dunedin factories to visit Government
House. The girls having discovered, that they had
not been asked on their own account, but simply
to provide partners for the seamen from the two
warships now in that harbour, resented being
“made a convenience of,” and in an acidly-
worded reply refused to attend, as they considered
they were quite capable of finding young mesa for
themselves. The condescensions of those in high
places are rarely disinterested.
# # *
Governor Hopetoun, who, we may state
after subjecting him to a critical examination, is
about as fat as a tandstickor and quite rickety in
all his vice-regal joints, and who, moreover, looks
as if it would be strongly advisable to keep him
under a net during the summer months for fear of
predatory insects, is not satisfied with the vice-
GRAND hotel
A BUSINESS TRIP TO ENGLAND
AT HOME. ABROAD.
Defendant Barnard is a married man living with his wife at St. Kilda, but about three years ago he was in London,
and stayed for 18 months at the Grand Hotel, when he made Miss Mindon’s acquaintance. He was in the habit of wearing
regimentals, and styled himself “colonel” of a British regiment. During his stay at the Grand Hotel he paid his addresses to
complainant, and representing himself os a widower escorted her to all kinds of places of amusement. A proposal of marriage was
accepted by the young woman, and at balls and parties, defendant introduced her as his intended wife. She apprised him of
her condition, when he alleged that he was under orders to join his regiment at Naples, and took a passage for that port. He
assured complainant that he would be back in London in three weeks’ time, but failed to return. Complainant, ascertained that he
had taken a passage for Melbourne, and following him there she found him, and got a promise from him that he would pay her £5 a
week for her child and her own support. Subsequently complainant learned that defendant was a married man, when he reduced
her allowance to 25s. a week, and eventually paid her nothing at all. She had received nothing from him since the 15th November
and was compelled to apply to the police for assistance. Defendant failed to appear. On his behalf it was stated that he was with-
out money, and that whioh he had squandered belonged to his wife. The paternity of the child was not disputed, and the Bench
made an order for 25s. a w r eek, with £5 5s. cost —Daihi Paper,
regal country residence at Mount Maeedon, which
bucolic abode was rushed up in a fever of loyal
zeal by the always-accommodating Gillies, on a
cool spot to which Loch might retire whenever
he felt like ruralising. Hopetoun does not
object to the house on his own account, but
it “ does not suit his servants.” There appear
to be an upper crust and a substratum
amongst the vice-regal flunkies, platelayers and
hash-makers, and the rules of caste are so rigidly
observed that the upper servants would no sooner
associate with the lower than the Tallowfat family
of Toorak would be seen at large in company with
the wife and children of a corporation road-
scraper. This awful arrogance in low places was
not allowed for in the original plans of the build-
ing, but the seraphic Duncan has intimated the
willingness of the Government to set aside another
few thousands or so to the work of fencing off the
various grades of butlers and maids.
# #
Hopetoim’s butler has married Loch’s
waiting-maid. An Imperial Federation.
* # #
The Ballarat papers have been telling
things of a delicate nature about a fair young
bride who landed in that still, small town with
her husband about a year back and settled in an
ivy-clad cottage, and waited anxiously for the
time when she might realise on a promise made
by her fond, old, bald-headed father on her mar-
riage-day. It seems the old man swore to hand
over £2OOO in gold to the couple on the occasion of
the birth of their first child. At length the hus-
band was delighted beyond measure on being-
awarded a colossal boy, and he went out and
whooped and danced a breakdown in the yard
and invited the neighbours to come to his house
the next night to celebrate the birth of a son and
heir, and the receipt of £2OOO in gold to clinch the
bargain. The joyful father arranged for a great
spread, but on the eve of the delirium he had a
revelation that made him jubilate on the other side
of his face and carry on for rage and pain more
tumultuously than before. His wife, the trusted ob-
ject of his young affections, had deceived him most
vilely by bribing a nurse and hiring a strange iu-
fant to impersonate the rightful heir, as yet non esf,
so as to be in in a position to draw on her fond
and trusting parent for his promised reward. It
is hard to describe the husband’s grief ;he
rescinded all his invitations and knocked the
elaborate feast to flinders with a club, sent the
hired infant back to its legal guardians, and sat
up by himself all night, and was profane—and
now there is a young husband in Ballarat who is
an object of exasperating sympathy, and a wife
who cannot go abroad without being asked by all
the small boys in the town if she wants to rent a
baby.
# * #
The nurses of Melbourne Hospital resent
“ the supercilious and unkind interference of
Secretary Williams, whoso custom it is to enter
the wards at all hours of the night, for what pur-
pose they fail to see except to pry into the privacy
of the nurses, and make himself obnoxious and-un
pleasant. From The Bulletin’s tolerably exten-
sive experience of hospitals, it is convinced that
nurses, ,especially night-nurses, want a lot ol
watching. The only nurses who, as a class, don’t
want watching are the Sisters of Mercy, who, you
see, are ‘ ‘ volunteers and not pressed men ” and
don’t take to the profession to get a living. Nor
do you ever find them wanting “ a nip ” of hospital
stimulants, nor have they even a “ mash” to write
to just at the hour when that cantankerous Smith in
ward X 40 ought to get his medicine. And yet
after all the Sisters of Mercy are watched by their
superiors to prevent accidents. We do not say
that most professional nurses are not good and
attentive women, but there is among them a
sufficient leaven of the other kind to justify an
experienced old stager like Secretary Williams in
being superciliously inquisitive at all sorts of un-
earthly hours.
* * #
The trouble about steam-whistling on the
Lane Cove River, Sydney, still continues. Lane
Cove has been infested from an early period of
N.S.W. history by a queer stamp of people who
like loud noises and cock-fights and such things.
They are intensely angry at the attempt made to
stop steamer-whistling, and are vowing vengeance
against those who wish to have the Marine Board
regulations against that curse of
the sleepless enforced.
This fog-horn is a real torture
to thousands of sensitive people.
Look, for instance, at the Colo-
nial Sugar Refining Company’s
steam syren. This brutal instru-
ment is 15 inches in diameter
and is run at a pressure of
1501bs. to the square inch. On
a calm night it may be heard at
a spot on the Blue Mountains
30 miles from Sydney ! It is
blown every morning for several
minutes, and is anathemised by
many a dying man with his last
breath. Perhaps Mayor Burde-
kin will take it into his head to
alter these things.
* # #
The commercial travellers
of N.S. Wales have just had
their annual meeting, “consist-
ing of two parts—a sober, matter-
of-fact meeting in the afternoon
and a dinner in the evening.”
They have now in hand a bene-
volent fund amounting to £1436,
and wish to increase it. The
Bulletin would suggest that
the commercials could greatly
increase their fund by bringing
out in part-book form a collec-
tion of those nice, delicate little
stories which they tell before
dinner and during dinner and
after dinner and at every other
time. Such a book would have
a large private circulation — if
not seized by the police.
*. * #
There is now, alas ! no
chance of the Federal Confer-
ence being held at Hobart. This
is a severe blow for the board-
inghouse interest, which is para-
mount at Hobart. For five
months in the year Hobart lives
by stuffing the guileless visitor
with hash ; for the remaining
seven months its inhabitants
feed on raspberry-jam and their
own fat.
* # #
The monetary institutions
of Victoria don’t very often
“ give in,” the Premier Build-
ing and Investment Society,
being the third and last failure.
It will, however, pay 20s. in the
£. The first was about 30 years
ago, and, in addition to paying
nothing in the £, brought ruin
and misery to thousands of small
people, besides landing the
directors in gaol. It was known
as the Provident Institute, and
was managed by a pious person
named Porter, who got away
safely to Callao, at that time the
defaulters’ refuge. In the rod
brick building in Queen-street
every policeman and servant girl
in Melbourne had their savings,
and many a good dinner was
spoilt on the day “the Provi-
dent ” broke. It offered and
paid big interest, but never a
shilling of the principal.
W % %
A Perth (W. A.) banker writes
to the Western Mail recom-
mending “ cheerfulness in be-
reavement.” We should like to
behold hischeerfulness when a de-
faulting teller bereaves the bank.
A Dunedin (N.Z.) pressman, who was told
off to “do ” the opening service of the Anglican
Synod, knowing the job to be an extra-dreary one,
wasted a little time in irrigating and whispering
saccharine remarks to the fair dispenser of his
favourite juice—and so found himself too late to
Pitmanise the text. He took down some of the


The SYDNEY DEPOSIT BANK,
90 KING STREET-90
Established 1885.
Agencies in London and throughout Australia.
Overdrafts granted against Deposit of Deeds,
and all the usual banking business transacted.
The following are the Rates of Interest allowed
for Fixed Deposits
3 Years 94 per cent.
12 Months 84 per cent.
6 Months 74 per cent.
3 Months 54 per cent.
5 per cent, allowed on daily balance ot current account.
For the past Four (4) Years a Bonus of One per
Cent, has been paid in addition to the above rates.
This is the first and only Bank in the Colonies
which divides its profits with its depositors.
Communications from the country will be
promptly attended to.
T. S. RICHARDSON.
General Manager.
HAT
scorns
CURES
CONSUMPTION
SCROFULA
BRONCHITIS
COUCHS
COLDS
Wasting Diseases
Wonderful Flesh Producer.
Many have gained one pound
per day by its use.
Scott’s Emulsion is not a secret
remedy. It contains the stimulat-
ing properties of the Hypophos-
phites and pure Norwegian Cod
Liver Oil, the potency of both
being largely increased. It is used
by Physicians all over the world.
PALATABLE AS MILK.
Sold hy all Chemists,
SCOTT & BOWNE, New York.
Robertson’s Whisky.
E9OO PRISS3DS.
til VIA A WAV IN Till: (OLONIMS
AS KOI,LOWS ;
It; of 45 earli, 25 42. ami 70 41,
Pamphlets from the Agents, _A.,Xj«I-ii ,r X v
& 00., CHARLOTTE PLACE. SYDNEY
sermon, however, and after the service commenced
to skirmish round among the attendant clergy who
were hurrying off to lunch (the preacher had dis-
appeared) for information as to the whereabouts of
the text. He button-holed 15 parsons one after
the other, and not one of them could tell him
what the text was, and he made the further
amazing discovery that they had only the haziest
idea of what the sermon was about.
* * *
E. J. H. Knapp, Secretary of the N.S.W,
prohibition league—for that’s what Knapp and
Co. really mean—quotes in one of the papers a
large number of judicial opinions (about 15 or 20)
to the effect that “drink is thereof of crime.”
Among the dicta quoted are those of Sir Alfred
Stephen, of N.S.W.. who says that “nine-tenths
of the crime locally committed is directly or in-
directly attributable to drunkenness.” After
getting which off his chest Sir Alfred, no doubt,
washed down a nice little, well-cooked, moderate
dinner with a pint of Australian wine—which
noxious custom, by the way, has not prevented
the amiable old gentleman from possessing at 90
years of age quite as clear a head as Mr. E. J. H.
Knapp owns at, say, 50. Then Judge Dowling,
of N.S.W., is quoted as having said that “drink
might be written over the door of every cell in
Darlinghurst.” Which suggests what a fine joke
it would be to write over the main gate (the one
through which we went to gaol) the legend
“Licensed to retail fermented and spirituous
liquors.” What a “rise ”it would take out of the
professional boozer as he entered quod to expiate
his crimes! Judge Dowling aforesaid, it is under-
stood, does not despise an occasional after-dinner
glass of whisky-and-waterintheprudent proportion
of one to four. And then Chief-Justice Darley, we
are told, has delivered himself from the Bench of
the analytical-looking opinion that drunkenness
causes “ semi-tenths of the crime of N.S.W.”
Now, the big-framed Judge Darley, though a
most moderate man, is not a teetotaller, but he
lives so carefully and takes so much exercise
that the little wine he drinks won’t hurt him.
The fact of tho matter is that the enthusiastic
dogmatic teetotaller is generally a man without a
stomach —a man who either never had a stomach
or who has worn it out.
* * #
The other day the proprietor of the
Launceston (Tas.) Daily Telegraph received
from England a manuscript novel with a view of
publication. Plot: “A young Tasmanian lady
goes for a walk. She is attacked by a Tasmanian
devil. A gentleman comes to her rescue. Finale
(of course), Marriage.” The novel has been pub-
lished in England, but, says the author in his
letter, “You had better substitute another fero-
cious animal for ‘the Tasmanian devil.’” Yes, a
paddymelon or a platypus would be much better.
#
There was once a judge who was pretty
hard up. And he had to try a man for something.
And a day or two before the trial came on he
borrowed some odd £5O notes from someone who
was in some way mixed up with the prisoner.
And there was an acquittal—perhaps on the.
merits of the case. Further particulars will
appear in our later editions.
* « *
That rollicking spendthrift, the dear Duke
of Edinburgh, appears to be suffering from some
dark, mysterious complaint of a nature known
only to the Queen and a few ether people of that
description. Official information respecting this
national calamity (currently reported to be a
decayed tooth) is extremely limited, so Figaro, a
small journal deeply addicted to Royalty, has
ventured to observe that “if the Duke is really a
great and frequent sufferer from some serious
malady it would be far better that the British public
should know it.” To which we would respectfully
add that the Australian public are panting to
know it. This suspense is too dreadful. Though
it be the worst —Jet us, O ! let us know it.
A suburban resident of Brisbane was so
outraged in his feelings by having a bunch of
“pansy.blossoms ” which had been obtained with-
out permission from his garden during the small
hours of the morning—presented to him the other
day in Queen-street by a meek boy with a whining
request to buy them, that he thereupon got an
electric-bell attached to his bed, with communica-
tion extending to the garden gate. When the
wire was hitched on the gate could not be opened
without causing a sufficient row just at the
sleeper’s exposed ear. While the refreshing
dew was still on the flowers a few morn-
ings after, the meek boy entered the garden
by climbing over the fence. Having possessed
himself of the choicest floral specimens he left by
the garden gate. Hearing the electric row which
arose in the house immediately the gate opened,
lie suspected something, and forgetting in his
hurry to close the offending portal he vanished
into the misty distance. As the bell continued its
alarm while the gate remained open it followed
that at length the wronged proprietor became
conscious of his danger signal. Clad in his pyjamas
and carrying with him his fury and a walking-
stick ho went forth. He found his garden in a
sad plight, but he did not find who did it. He
then sorrowfully shut the gate and cut all con-
nection with electricity.
# * *
Signor Florindo Castellano—the distin-
guished foreigner who brought an action against a
Sydney hotel company for false imprisonment and
got at them for a cool £lOO0 —has just filed his
schedule in Melbourne. The hotel manager had
Castellano arrested on the ground that he in-
tended clearing out of the country without
settling his bill satisfactorily, and the Signor got
a verdict owing, chiefly, to the jury’s belief in his
great wealth. Since then he has been again
A DIFFERENCE WITH A DISTINCTION.
FIRST BOOZER: “ GIVE US A COUPLE OF WHISKIES, PLEASE, AND LET’S
HAVE IT REAL GOOD.”
SECOND BOOZER : “YESH-WE WANT IT REAL BAD.”
arrested and locked up at the . suit of another
creditor, which, with this filing of his shovel, sug-
gests that the hotel company, who, however, ap-
pealed, had bad luck.
# * *
Field Flowers Goe having panned out
such a dull prosaic Evangelical nonentity, some-
body invited Bishop Moorhonse to come over and
add a little human interest to the opening of Mel-
bourne Cathedral. However, it seems that Heaven
has too much work for Brother Manchester to do
at “home,” and he will be unable to revisit the
diocese he swore never, never to leave so long as
he preserved his health and strength. Which
reminds us that no pecuniary inducements to
depart from hence are likely to be put before the
melancholy Ooe. He. will hang on to Melbourne
for the remaining term of his natural life, unless
they can persuade him to take up a presentation
purse of sovereigns and walk. Goe is the pro-
verbial pig bought in a poke.
# * *
The Sydney masher known as Letty Lind’s
“Silver King” had better be off to London on
the wings of love. At latest dates the fair Letty
was having fainting-fits after her dances, under
which circumstances it is obvious that the “king"
ought to be right there with the sal volatile,
* # #
The mental weakness of the typical Lon-
don “ Johnnie ” is pathetically apparent even in
his delirium tremens. At the inquest held upon
a Mr. Ernest Weldon (who seems to have died
from “ going it ” too freely) the doctor stated that
he found Ernest suffering from feeble jim-jams
and “ delusions,” His pet delusion was that he
had got on a new top-hat in bed, and he passed
away the hours in asking the doctor how this
visionary stove-pipe suited him. Paw deah
chappie ! Other men’s delusions take the forms
of blue tigers, flaming boa-constructors, green
double-headed dogs, and so forth. But Ernest,
at the very height of his frenzy, could merely
imagine that he was wearing a new silk hat, and
he probably died wondering whether it was the
very latest shape.
* * #
GOOD-BYE.
(After Shelley— with a Tomahawk.)
Good-bye ? No, love, the hour is cursed
That tears you from my side ;
Let us forget all, but ourselves,
No matter what betide.
“ May God-be-with-ye,” still you say,
Then, darling, do not hate
Me when I say I’d rather with
You have a fete-a-tete.
For loves like ours are works of Grid
To touch man’s sordid soul,
And if we stray o’er Eden’s bridge
He’ll surely pay the toll.
T.
It is rumored that yet another very start-
ling divorce-case will soon occupy public attention
in Adelaide. People who know something about
the case —not from the co-respondent’s side—don’t
believe anything will come of it. The petitioner
knows too much to secure a verdict from any jury.
* * *
“ A Loyal English Catholic ” writes to the
Age complaining that neither the Roman Church
itself nor any of the R. J. societies in Victoria
have presented addresses of welcome to Lord
Hopetoun. In answer to which Archbishop Carr
states that the Catholics are as “ loyal ” as any-
body else, but that Hopetoun has already re-
ceived 16 tons' weight of bad English, and these
protestations of devotion are merely “ a meaning-
less form. ” It’s dreadful. Perhaps the irreverent
cleric considers that the waggon-loads of ferns and
pot-plants, which the Triumvirate spread about
their theatres on special “ Command ” nights, are
not important items in the British Constitution.
O ! good Archbishop Carr, good Archbishop Carr,
You ought to roll up with a loyal address,
For the Mayors and the Council have come from
afar „
His dear little lordship to solemnly bless ;
O ! how can you say ’tis a meaningless thing
At the feet of the idol yourself to abase,
And maintain that (like flowers that bloom in the
Spring)
Such grovel has nothing to do with the case?
’Tis the whole breath of life for V.R. and her
Throne —
It greases the wheels of thq regal machine ;
Now, what makes their goodness and usefulness
known
Save these praises official of lordship and Queen ?
Then roll up at once with a “ loyal ” address,
Spread on the butter as thick as you can,
And if as Hope, reads it he faints from distress—
O ! swear, by the Pope, he’s a sturdy young
mail.
* # #
The physical and mental educations of
Young Australia are lumped together when itcomes
to the annual distribution of prizes. At one of the
Melbourne suburban town-halls the other day
there was a great gathering of grammar-school
pupils and friends to hear the worthy chairman
make such announcements as these: —“ John
Jones, second in the egg-and-spoon race and first
in Scripture (2nd class).” “William Smith, third
prize for jumping in the sack and special prize for
mathematics.” The moral of the whole function
seemed to be that the small boss Latin scholar
wasn’t much of a circumstance upon the spindle-
shanked genius who staggered in ahead for a 100-
yards sprint. And then look at the fuss they
made about the color-sergeant of the Sydney
Grammar School Cadets who had won a prize for
shooting, as compared with the applause accorded
to the clever young Jew, who absolutely cleared
the board of prizes for scholastic attainments.
* * *
Ebenezer Ward lias been elevated by
his Gracious Queen to the dignity of “Honor-
able within the province of South Australia.”
The blessed effect of Y.R.’s practical appre-
ciation of Ebenezer’s services to a House of
Assembly which snorts at him will bo to keep
Ebenezer in his province. Up to now his pro
since hasn’t thought over much of Ebenezer,
for when he sits as Chairman of Committees it is
occasionally suggested by his brother senators that
Ebenezer doesn’t sit quite straight. But as the
province slowly grasps the great fact that he is
“ Honorable ” by command of his Sovereign Lady
no doubt it will learn to reverence Ebenezer a
great deal more,
* #
When “drunks and disorderlies” are de-
fended by attorneys at the Melbourne police courts
the fines are always doubled.
* * *
The Earl of Hopetoun is not a punctual
time-keeper. In this he differs vastly from some
of his predecessors, notably Sir Henry Barkly,
who, in all his public engagements, always turned
up exactly as the clock struck. That Sir Henry
always considered that whether the engagement
was a p.n. or a public meeting it should be kept.
People used to say that the coachman, if before
time, had orders to “hang fire” in the next street
till time was made.
* # *
“ The leading inhabitants of Yarrawonga,”
that is to say the poundkeeper, the banker, doctor,
publican, draper, and bell-ringer of that Victorian
one-horse collocation of shanties, have grovelled
an exceeding great illuminated grovel before the
Hopetounian patent-leathers, on his ‘ ‘ promotion
to the Governorship of this, the brightest gem of the
universe ” in which they point out that: —
Your Excellency may perhaps consider that, as loyal
.subjects, we have been somewhat backward in signifying
oir approval of your appointment; but our tardiness in
this respect is owing to our having expected that, long
ere now, our local municipal body would have requested
us to join them in an address of welcome upon your Ex-
cellency’s arrival in the land of the Southern Cross.
Seeing that our Council have failed in their duty, we
n iw take this opportunity of expressing our distinguished
1 walty as well to yourself as to the constitution of Vic-
toria.
.should your Excellency, at any time, honour our town
with a visit, we shall be most happy to pilot you round its
many beautiful surroundings.
In conclusion, we trust that you may, at all times,.give
entire satisfaction to us, to our fellow townsmen,- to your
ministry and to the Victorian public generally.
Awaiting the favour of an early reply, ■*
We are, &c.
Yarrawonga may be congratulated on having a
sensible Town Council, but it should at once kill
its “ leading inhabitants.”
* * *
Lady Kintore, wife of the Governor of
South Australia, is very much disgusted with the
people of Adelaide. She can find no society,
and her dear little sprigs of female nobility have
t > drag along without fitting company. A high
legal official, so people say, is trying hard to meet
the want.
* # *
Mrs. Firstborn to Mr. F., detained in
town “ oh business —
We are in fine health. The boy can crawl about on all
fours. Hoping the same can be said of yon, I remain, &c,
# * * .
A Tasmanian parson has just publicly
prayed in church that Gov. Hamilton may repent
his wickedness.
# # *
In a land where there are so many pious
sharebrokers who “travel” on their godliness, it
is strange to see two people discussing in the law-
courts the question whether a man can rightly
take commission from both buyer and seller. The
pious sharebrokers should read their Bibles. “No
man,” it is written, “can have two masters”; if
he does he’ll have one of them on toast or perhaps
he’ll “have ” both of them, if he is very pious,
* # #
It appears that the officers of the Aus-
tralian coasting-steamers have very frequently to
work from 30 to 40 hours straight off before sail-
ing, and are completely exhausted before they go
to sea. At the highest rate of pay, chief officers
receive a fraction over per hour ; seconds, fid.;
and thirds, a fraction over an hour.
Yes, if the Prince has got a pain
(Thus prays the poet),
We loyal folks across the main
Would like to know it.
Their duty ’tis our minds to ease
(To us they owe it)
If aught with Alfred disagrees
We want to know it.
Perhaps he has a stomach-ache
(These princes “go it ”) —
Then send us word, for pity’s sake!
We’d die to know it.
Maybe he suffers from the gout
(And cannot toe it) —
Must people pine, in awful doubt,
Who ought to know it ?
Or is he troubled with a boil ?
(Big feeds would grow it) 1
The weary millions as they toil
Do long to know it.
Perchance he has a tender corn
(He didn’t sow it)
We wait and wonder, all forlorn—
Please let us know it !
His royal heart, we fear, is weak;
His liver—blow it!
For simple truth Australians shriek,
We want to know it.


Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
Use Batho's Baking Powder.
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
Use Batho’b Baking Powder.
Use Batho’s Baking Powder,
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
k\
ei
O
JSJ
S
o
s
T
O
U
7
esj
/\cenTs .
DELISSAs. PHILLIPS
Barrack Street
Amusements.
EJJHEATRE ROYAL.
Under the Management of Messrs. Williamson,
Garner and Musgrove.
Lessee, Mr. S. Lazar. Treasurer, Mr. Geo. L. Goodman.
TO-NIGHT, THURSDAY, AND EVERY EVENING,
Williamson, Garner and Musgrove’s
GRAND CHRISTMAS ANNUAL,
ALADDIN. ALADDIN.
Admission—ss., 3s. and Is.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE.
Lessee and Manager ... Mr. Geo. Rignold.
Doors open at 7 ; commencing 7.30. Carriages at 10.45.
To-Night and Every Evening,
Shakespeare’s Fairy Comedy,
A MIDSUMMER NIGHT’S DREAM.
Box Office at Theatre from 10 to 5. Prices as usual.
J. P. Macdonald, Acting-Manager.
QRITERION THEATRE.
Sole Proprietor Mr. John Solomon.
Under the Management of Messrs. Brough and Boucioault.
General Manager . .. Mr. Mayne.
Duors Open, 7. Overture, 7.55. Carriages, 10.45.
TO-NIGHT, THURSDAY, and EVERY EVENING,
will be produced
FRIENDS. FRIENDS.
The Comedy is produced under the sole direction of
Mr. DION BOUCICAULT, Jun.
Admission ... £2 2s. to Is.
Box Plan at Nicholson’s. Carriages at 10.40 p.m.
Joe Davis, Business Manager.
JJONDI AQUARIUM.
The Most Popular
PICNIC and PLEASURE GROUNDS or AUSTRALIA.
The Famous Switchback Railway, conveying
Passengers from Cliff to Cliff daily.
Splendid Asphalt Open-Air Skating-Rink Free to Visitors.
Open Daily from 10 a.m to 10 p.m.
Admission, Is.; Children, 6d. Trams to Gate—Fare, 4d
JJXHIBITION BUILDING.
Under the Direction of Messrs. MacMahon.
XMAS AMUSEMENT EXTRAORDINARY.
TO-NIGHT AND EVERY EVENING,
Messrs. MacMahon announce with great satisfaction the
brilliant and unequivocal success of the re-appearance of
the world-famed
SILBON-STIRKS 'I
SILBON-STIRKS
SILBON-STIRKS }■
SILBON-STIRKS
SILBON-STIRKS j
Whose startling performances in this
same Exhibition Building on a former
occasion excited such a remarkable
degree of interest and attracted
tens of thousands of people.
THE HUGE BUILDING CROWDED NIGHTLY.
The Coolest Resort in Sydney.
Popular Prices: 35., 25., and Is. SATURDAY NEXT
January 4,1890, Grand Matinee Performance, commencinsr
at 2.30. Children, Sixpence.
H E C Y c L O R A MA!
Aim. aim ! It is, it is, the cannon’s opening roar.”
S3?"’ This, the most marvellous exhibition ever presented
in Australia, is
OPEN DAILY, 10 a.m. to 10 p.m. Sundays, 3to 10 p.m.
What is it ? What is it ?
«nH^Vh?r-i?fl^nf NGAR L.^' P '’l 8ay8: * <The roar ° f CanilOll
and the rattle of musketry alone are wanted, and scarcely
wanted, to complete the marvellous illusion the artists’
skill so successfully induces.”
Mr. Wm. Beach, the ex-champion sculler, savs • “ I
consider it the finest thing I have ever seen.”
Mr. T. K. Abbott, S.M., says: “Simply magnificent.”
Have you seen it! Have you seen it ?
-The Great Gettysburg Cycloramal-
To-day. To-day. Everyday. Everyday.
CHO O L
O F
ARTS.
Lessee—Mr. Harry Rickards. Treas.—Mr. J. 0. Leete.
Tiemendous Success and Enthusiastic Reception of Mr
HARRY RICKARDS’
NEIV ENGLISH and IRISH COMEDY COMPANY,
In 0. Walch’s Screaming Nautical Nightmare,
TIHIIE LA^-LTJBBEE.’
Prices—3s., 2s. and Is. Plan at Nicholson’s.
Wm. A. Jinkins, Business Manager.
£0 °O! £9OOl £900!
In Prizes in Australian Natives’ Association
NATIONAL FETE and ART UNION
JANUARY 27, 1890.
Ist Prizo-Foiir-roomed Villa, valued £4OO.
2nd Prize—Block of Land, valued £lOO.
3rd p nze—An Oil Painting (“News from a Distant Land
' allied £7O; and a number of other Prizes.
Agen£ or ’° T 22 for £h To ' ,e had from Local
TIIOS. PEN BERTH V, S«-o.
Swanston Street, Melbourne.
THE GEORGE HOTEL
(opposite Bail'way Station, near Baths),
St. Kilda, Victoria.
First-class Family Afc Commercial Hotel.
For particulars, apply to
F WIMFOL.3G,
PROPRIETOR,
Shipping.
JJIREOT SERVICE TO ENGLAND.
PENINSULAR AND ORIENTAL STEAM
NAVIGATION COMPANY.
The Company’s Royal Mail Steamships (under
contract with the Ipiperial, New South Wales,
Victorian, and South Australian Governments)
will be dispatched from their Wharf, Circular
Quay, as under, for LONDON, calling at Mel-
bourne, Adelaide, Albany, Colombo, Aden, Brin-
disi, Malta, Gibraltar, and Plymouth.
And henceforth every alternate week.
RESERVED CABINS ON MODERATE
TERMS.
SALOON PASSENGERS MAY BREAK
THEIR JOURNEY.
The arrangements for SECOND SALOON
PASSENGERS having been thoroughly re-
organised, the accommodation now offered is un-
surpassed.
Passage-money can be paid here for passages
from England. Liberal concessions made to
families.
Passengers, cargo, and parcels are booked through
to India, China, and Japan. Cargo and parcels
will not be received after 3 p.m. on the day pre-
vious to sailing.
For all information apply at the Company’s
Offices, 247 George-street.
A. MACLEAN, Acting Agent.
fIOMPAGNIE DES MESSAGERIES MARI-
O TIMES.
SYDNEY to LONDON.
OVERLAND FROM MARSEILLES via PARIS.
Steamers under postal contract with the Government of
France, calling at MELBOURNE ADELAIDE, KINO
GEORGE’S SOUND, MAKE, SUEZ, and PORT SAID.
Passengers hooked to KURRAOHEE, BOMBAY,
MAURITIUS, and EAST COAST of AFRICA.
The service is carried on by powerful steamers of 4000
tons and 3000 effective h.p., built expressly for the Aus-
tralian and New Caledonian line, which will be despatched
as follows:
And thenceforward on the 25th of each month.
Rates of passage-money to Marseilles from £2O to £65,
including table wines and Suez Canal dues on passengers.
RETURN TICKETS issued at the following rates:—
English interpreters meet through passengers for
London on arrival of steamers at Marseilles, and accom-
pany them to Paris and Calais.
N.B.—Passengers’ luggage conveyed free of cost from
Marseilles to London.
For freight, passage, and further particulars apply at
the Company’s Office, 15 Macquarie-place.
H. DE POSSEL,
Acting Principal Agent.
LLOYD.
IMPERIAL GERMAN MAIL.
Passengers are carried according to the requirements of
the English Passenger Acts of 1885 and 1863.
MONTHLY LINE OF DIRECT STEAMERS
from
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, and ADELAIDE,
to SOUTHAMPTON, ANTWERP, and BREMEN, via
COLOMBO, Aden, Suez, and Genoa,
taking passengers for London,
connecting from PORT SAID by DIRECT MAIL and
PASSENGER LINE to BRINDISI,
will be despatched as follows (if practicable):—
Leave
Adelaide
Serna
phore.
1890
And thereafter every four weeks.
PASSAGE MONEY from SYDNEY,
£l4 to £57 10s.
RETURN TICKETS, available for NINE and TWELVE
MONTHS, at REDUCED RATES.
Passengers and Cargo are booked through to New York,
via Southampton.
Special facilities are afforded for bringing out relatives
and friends from the United Kingdom and Europe by pre-
payment of the passage money in Australia.
For FREIGHT, PASSAGE, and all further particulars,
apply to
FREDK. BETZ & CO., Agents,
5 O’Connell-street.
TTNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF NEW
U ZEALAND, Limited.
SAN FRANCISCO ROYAL MAIL SERVICE.
OVERLAND ROUTE TO ENGLAND VIA SAN
FRANCISCO AND NEW YORK,
Calling at
AUCKLAND and HONOLULU,
Avoiding alike the heat of the Red Sea and the cold
of Cape Horn.
Under Contract with the Postmasters-General of New
South Wales and New Zealand, the steamers of this line
are appointed to leave Sydney and Auckland for Honolulu
and San Francisco every four weeks, sailing as under:—
Each steamer carries a duly qualified surgeon.
These steamers are fitted with Electric Light and with’a
Refrigerating Chamber for ship provisions, insuring a
plentiful supply of ice throughout the voyage.
Passengers are booked to San Francisco or through to
European destinations and have at San Francisco choice of
the unrivalled Atlantic Steamship Lines of the Cunard;
Inman, White Star, and other companies.
All first-class passengers are allowed 3501 b. of baggage
to San Francisco and 2501 b. “ Overland ” free of charge.
THROUGH FARE TO LIVERPOOL.
FIRST-CLASS £63 to £66.
Time-cards, railway maps, and gu de books, showing all
routes to any point in the United States, may be had on
application
For rates of passage and freight and all other inforraa-
don apply at the Company’s Oificos, 15 Bridge-street.
FREDK. V'. JACKSON, Manager.
Furniture, &c.
EWTON AND LAMB.
FURNITURE and PIANOFORTE
WAREHOUSEMEN,
CABINETMAKERS, UPHOLSTERERS
AND
BEDDING MANUFACTURERS.
SHOW KOOMS AND MANUFACTORY:
SPRING and O’CONNELL STREETS.
Full suites for dining room—side-
board, DINNER WAGGON, TABLE,
OVERMANTEL, COUCH, EASY CHAIRS,
CARVING CHAIRS and DINING CHAIRS,
all to match. Newton & Lamb.
ELF-AD JUSTING HAMMOCK
Patented.
CHAIR,
I his chair adjusts itself to any position, from
sitting to reclining and vice versa, at the will of
the occupant. It is simple yet ingenious in its
construction; works automatically. The abo e
out represents only two of the numerous positions
that can be obtained instantly, and with but little
effort. It fits perfectly every part of the body,
and gives the occupant entire rest. We can now
supply portable suspension Stands to enable the
Chair to be used anywhere. Price, with S
305.; without Stand, 255.
Stand,
I)
Packing in canvas, if required, 2s. 6d. extra.
RAWING-ROOM SUITES, Fashionably
Upholstered, at all prices.
CCASIONAL TABLES in alfWoods. In i -
inense variety of designs; also, elegantly
finished in Embroidery, Plush, &c. Newton and
Lamb.
1“
w
ALNUT FALL
. . FRONT PEDESTA L
WRITING DESKS, of vari-
ous sizes, fitted with Shelves,
Moveable Pigeon-holes, Slid-
ing Trays, Stationery, Draw-
ers, revolving portable triple.
Inkstand. Receptacles for
. Stamps, and Ruler and Pen
Racks. Outside Drawers divided into compart-
ments by movable partitions to admit of enlarging
or diminishing the space when required. Locks
automatically. One of the most useful, commo-
dious, and perfectly-planned articles fortheLibrary
or Office yet produced. Admirably suited to the
necessities of professional and business men.
WALNUT FALL " FRONT SINGLE
PEDESTAL WRITING DESK.
Internal arrangements almost identical with the
description given above. Price only £l2 10s.
f
D
RAWING-ROOM
CABINETS.
Early English
CHIPPENDALE DESIGNS.
Nkwton & Lamb.
ƒ
B
EDSTEADS,
all sizes
Nickel-plated and Black and
Brass. Great variety.
Bedding . All descriptions
at lowest rates.
Newton & Lamb.
f
SPRING MAT-
TRESSES (Woven
Wire), best make; also,
Spiral Spring.
Price, from 7s. 6d. each.
CHEAP IURNITURE.—Pine Tables, from
10,s. ; Dining Tables, from 20s. ; Kitchen
Dressers, from 225. 6d.; Washstands, from 12s. 6d.;
Chests of Drawers, from 405.; Wardrobes, from
80s. ; Cedar Cbeffoniers, from 30s. ; Cedar Side-
boards, from £3 3s. ; Clothes Horses, from
Bs. 6d. ; Writing Tables, with drawers, from 255.
r—
I
CE CHESTS,
ALL SIZES.
PRICES LOW.
NEWTON and LAMB.
ƒ
T^XCELSIOR
UPRIGHT
IMPROVIT)
REFRIGERATORS.
Vuri us Sizes, from 455.
EWT UN AND LAM B.
FURNITURE and PIANOFORTE
WAREHOUSEMEN,
CABINETMAKERS, UPHOLSTERERS
AND
BEDDING MANUFACTURERS.
Show Rooms and Mwokactouv ;
SPRING AND O’CONNELL STREETS.
“Red Handkerchief.”
(FOR THE BULLETIN .)
This story has the uncustomary advantage
of being gospel-true—which puts me somehow at
a disadvantage. It’s about a woman, of course —
a woman with eyes like those of a dog straining
his chain to reach his master, and a silver note in
her voice that made even her set-your-teeth-on-
edge-English sound like a bell-bird’s chatter. For
she didn’t move in the best cream-laid society;nor
in thesuburban villa- with-pa-in-busiuess-ranks, nor
yet in that lower stratum about which there is a
superstition that the component parts are poor
but honest and mamma takes in washing. “ Red
Handkerchief ” may have had a baptismal name,
but I never heard it. She was the only lady on the
“ Dandy Jim ” gold-mine seven miles from Bal-
larat, and she and Tom Morgan were “friends ’" —-
an elastic relationship which you can stretch to
catapult lengths with the invariable result that it
fires you out of respectable society. And “ Red
Handkerchief ” had tried the social elastic to the
utmost and it had landed her well, I won’t
particularise.
# # *
She had stuck to Tom from the day four
years back when she raised him in her arms when
his horse tell on him, and bound up his head with
strips tom from her fluttering dress. Night and
day she tended him as if he were a petted child,
and idolised him right through as if she were
always a three-days’ bride. And Tom accepted
her attentions and sacrifices after a while in a
cool, matter-of-course way which never warned her
of his cooling off. Her faith in him was pitiful,
and she never resented his careless “What a
brave girl, Reddy !” when at the price of a broken
wrist she averted a mass of rock from falling on
him.
* * #
And this went on for another year, and
then Tom, in gorgeous neckties and radiant boots,
began to pay frequent visits to Ballarat and
“Red Handkerchief’s” eyes grew more solemn
than ever, and the boys hadn’t the heart to chaff
her, because we all knew it meant worse than
death for her, poor girl. And then one evening
Tom rode up to his tent with what novelists call a
set face, and he went in, and somehow the whole
camp was about waiting to hear a pistol-shot or a
woman shriek, because we all knew that the
climax had come. But there wasn’t even a sob.
Next morning “Red Handkerchief,” with a face
like a corpse, came to the tent-door and shading
her eyes with her hand looked hungrily over the
goldfield as if noting for the last time the untidy
heaps of earth marked by the staring windlasses—
the yawning shafts, and the belt of trees away in
the east. And at noon she came out with a bundle
in her hand and set off hurriedly towards the
town. I saw her face. It was ghostly grey, but
so sweet, to womanly, so exalted, and when one
of the boys wished her good-day she only nodded
her head silently and passed out of sight down the
dusty track.
## . #
A week later Tom Morgan—none of us
ever quite cottoned to Tom —brought a wife to the
camp—and so ends my story. But whenever I
read of those heroic women of other ages I always
see, somehow, “ Red Handkerchief’s ” ghastly,
patient face as without murmur or reproach she
sacrificed herself even to leaving her lover, and
faded away like a phantom on that hot December
day.
INA M.W.
Battenberg lately put his name “ on the
list ” for a very swell clnb, but, advised by Tummy,
who knew that the black-balls would fall like a
hail storm, withdrew a day or two before the
ballot.
In the Press and shortly to be published,
the first of The Bulletin series, “ A Golden
Shanty—Australian stories and sketches in prose
and verse by Bulletin writers.” Being a selection
from the brightest of the original literary matter
which has made The Bulletin world-famous.
Price one shilling ; if posted sd. extra.
THE LOVER’S DREAM.
The day was warm and Nancy D.,
Who lives in Manly by the sea ;
She is the girl who said she’d take
St. Louis Beer for her lover’s sake.
Her lover is such a nice young lad,
And Nancy made his heart so glad.
To church they have both gone to-day,
A happier pair never went that way.
Regardless of the sultry weather,
St. Louis Beer brought them together.
Everybody says—and what everybody sayj must be true
—that Pemell’s Snow wuitb Patent Roller’ Flour is the
best in the market.
Write for plans £lO Building 1 sites, Perth,
Western Australia. Intercolonial Investment
Company, Limited, 06 Bathurst-street, Sydney.
Revivalist Pentecost, now in Scotland,
says he believes that “ all the people of Scotland
had arranged to die on Sunday, because all they
did in connection with religion was done on that
day.” This might have been written of Sunday-
closing Melbourne.
Mayor’s Ball.—Messrs. Ohaklkmont & Co., of
the Royal Arcade, respectfully beg to intimate to
all the ladies who attended the Mayor’s Ball, held
in the Centennial Hall, on the evening of the 27th
ultimo, that they are now photographing the ladies
who attended the ball for the purpose of making
up an album as a memento of the occasion.
Grosvenor Galleries, Royal Arcade.


The
Marvellous
18s. 6d.
OPTIMUS
WATCHES.
The Best , Cheapest and Most Accurate Timekeepers
ever produced.
Made espec’allv to our order by one of the leading and
t most celebrated manufacturers of Watches in Switzerland,
. and experience has shown that no watch is better than a
well-made Swiss one.
Gilt movements, jewelled in six holes, keyless (10 turns
to wind), enamel dials, crystal faces, well made, splendidly
finished, nickel oases that will wear excellently; in fact,
real good-looking, handsome little watches, and magnifi-
cent timekeepers.
Twelve months’ guarantee forwarded with every one.
Send P. 0.0. for 19s. 6d. (Is. postage), and have one
i forwarded by post. If not in every way satisfactory after
. a week money willingly refunded.
Only to be obtained from
FROST <sc SHIP HAM,
TRpectaoi.k Makers, Opticians & Electricians,
474 & 587 George Street, Sydney.
Ask for the
Unequalled
“DAWN” 3d. Cl GAB, Trt ".»t.
t:l
Store
AND
Hotel
KEEPERS.
Wholesale Agents: A. M. MARKS & Co., 74a PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
ƒ
DAWSON’S
Sole Agents for Australasia
VAUGHAN, ROGERS & 00.,
(Opposite C4.P.0.)
JOB PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
p
E
R
F
E
C
T
I
O
N
WHISKY.
SUB-AGENTS WANTED
IN THR
PRINCIPAL CENTRES
THROUGHOUT AUSTRALASIA.
r ■
m
n
6
m
m
m
i
V
IfOl
Is made with the utmost care from materials
which are
Selected with the greatest regard for Purity,
and for the
SOOTHING and BENEFICIAL EFFECT
which they impart to the Skin and Complexion.
Sold by all Chemists and Dealers In
Toilet Requisites.
The Referee.
It looks as if the portly Beach wore about
to follow in the footsteps of all other athletic
champions and in the end leave off a beaten man.
Beach evidently longs once again to sniff battle,
or it was scarcely necessary for him to accept
Hanlan’s challenge, as we daresay Stansbury
would be ready enough to take it up on the Parra-
matta. But Hanlan’s challenge is to row on the
Thames, so Beach’s offer to pull on the Australian
champion course was scarcely an acceptance of the
slippery Canadian’s offer. But ’twas ever thus.
Jem Belcher, unbeaten in his prime, could not
settle down quietly into the undefeated champion,
lint must needs meet and accept a drubbing in his
old age from his erstwhile pupil, Tom Cribb.
Take good advice, William, and settle down with
resignation to your advancing years, and let it be
said that Australia produced the ram avis of
world-champions—one who finally retired un-
beaten. Since writing, it is said that the wily
William has accepted our advice before it was
given, and finally concluded not to oome out.
# * #
Slavin, the Queenslaud-Irishman, who
went to England on a punching expedition, ap-
pears to haveoompletely worsted Smith, the pseudo-
English champion whom Charlie Mitchell could
easily thrash, and is now recognised as champion
of England. When, some years ago, Smith went
over to the Continent to fight Greenfield for the
championship and seemed likely to defeat the
latter, Greenfield’s supporters proceeded to
“ bash ” Smith with sticks and kicks. Mr.
Smith’s friends, on the principle of learning from
the enemy, last week began to kick the stuffing
out of Slavin when they saw victory inclining to
the latter. Slavin is extensively sympathised
with, and has been the recipient of substantial
monetary testimonials. The supporters of Slavin
are now sneering at “British fair play,” and so
on, as if there were ever any fair play in Austra-
lian prize-fighting when a good stake is involved.
Look at the Miller-Foley fight : where was
the fair play there ? Look at the Seale-Sandall
contest: what about that ? The fact of the
matter is that the commercial element brutalises
sport and ensavages sporting men right down to
the level of the hangman’s rope-greaser. A fair,
manly boxing contest, presided over by a real
sportsman, between scientific, well-trained men is
one thing; a brutal, blood-bespattered fight of
the sort that happened when Sullivan pounded
Kilrain to a jelly—for money— and nigger Jack-
son bashed his black brother, Godfrey, into the
raspberry-tart stage—for money—is another. The
crowd of greasy, beetle-browed loafers who hang
round every boxing-room with a pub. attached to
it, talking of fair play ! Why, to more than half
of them prize-fighting is only another form of
garrotting the public, and- half of them would be
capable of cutting their father’s carotid artery if
they could coin half-a-sovereign out of the gore.
# # *
All the same, for the proverbial home of
pugilistic fair play ! Molineaux, the black, had his
hands smashed by the crowd for having the
audacity to make a good fight with the British
champion, Tom Cribb. The fair-play crowd
rushed the ring when Heenan had Sayers beaten ;
when Slavin was boxing and beating Goode he had
a fair-play English chair flung at his head ; and
the cable now tells us that Slavin had luck in
escaping with his life for daring to make a chop-
ping-block of their so-called champion.
* # • *
The Bulletin may be wrong, but its
opinion is that when Slavin shall meet Jackson in
a knuckle-fight the darkey will go under.
* * *
London Figaro says ;—“ Jackson is not a
man who looks as though he would have made his
mark in any other department of life than the one
which has been selected for him. He has a large
head, but the expression of his face is not intelli-
gent. He cannot even be called a fine looking
animal.” What will Peter’s mash say to this?
# * #
A large section of the sporting public in-
clines to the belief that Searle was deliberately
poisoned in England.
# # *
A correspondent tells us that down south
the other day, the local mounted volunteer rifle-
men had a tug-of-war among themselves, after
which one of the “ civilian ” spectators offered to
back ten non-riflemen to pull 50 of the Y.M.R.
for £5 a-side. The match came off, with the re-
sult that the rifles won after a severe struggle.
All went off very well until late in the evening,
when sundry potations had loosened tongues, and
then it leaked out that the Y.M.R. had had their
boots “ readied up” for the occasion with spikes
and sprigs, &c. The riflemen now desire to pull
again—barefoot.
* * •
Professor William Miller, the athlete, of
Melbourne, is in the field again with challenges.
His career has been one of the most honest and
creditable in the annals of sport. He is of French
extraction ; his father was the late M. Meunior,
Professor of fencing and languages (Meunier is
the French for Miller.) William used to be a
booking-clerk on the Richmond Railway, near
Melbourne. His first athletic experience was
entering for a walking match in the days when
Lyall and Woodhouse divided the honours. Miller
came in ignominously last. Nothing daunted, he
went in and became an unrivalled wrestler, a first-
rate gymnast, a capable boxer, a good swordsman,
and altogether went the whole round. As a
wrestler, he fairly topped the tree in America.
He is about ten years younger than Donald
Dinnie, and has about the best temper in the
world.
# # «
The new Governor shed his smooth-faced
smile over Caulfield Races on Boxing Day. By a
strange coincidence Duncan Gillies was there,
too —probably for the first time in his life —and
when the Countess presented the Hopetoun Cup
with her own fair hands, the greasy satisfaction of
Duncan was eminently calculated to.make ordinary
people feel bad,
# * *
Why does not cricket attract shilling
sightseers? Well, because the side winning the
toss in an Intercolonial Match can bat all day, on
a splendid wicket, for 239 runs.
* * *
In future the police will not be allowed to
keep order at British boxing-matches.
# # *
After a long career of rather hard luck
The Charmer was fortunate enough to annex the
valuable Hopetoun Cup, at Caulfield, through
Fishwife’s jockey not having the forethought to
carry a trifle overweight against emergencies.
Although Fishwife only lost the race by a stirrup-
iron, it would have been more than ever rough on
Mr. Cook had Charmer got left again, seeing that
the little mare stumbled after turning into the
straight and was blocked until she had no time
left in which to get up nearer than Fishwife’s nose.
* # *
By winning the big two-year-old race at
Randwiek on Boxing Day, the speedy Correze
went a long way towards making amends for his
indifferent display in the Maribyrnong Plate. The
Melbourne filly Wilga was backed at odds on for
a deal of money, but Correze, who, by the way,
ran with plates on his forefeet, fought it out to
the bitter end and won by a few feet.
* # #
Sir Modred showed on Thursday the
mistake Australian studmasters made in allowing
him to cross the briny, when his son Sir William
won the first and last races on the card —the Flying
and A. J.C. Handicaps respectively. The Yankees
think a deal of the three Australian sires now in
the States —Darebin, Sir Modred and Cheviot,
and the doings of their progeny are eagerly noted
by the American press.
* * *
Sydney Tattersall’s Club races proved
a bad day out for the books, so bad, in fact, that
one joker gave out that the sons of Israel were
going to protest against the new course, the run-
ning being too true and the favorites winning too
frequently. The enormous field of 40 put in an
appearance for the Carrington Stakes, The Gift
starting favorite at 4 to 1. Sir William next in
fancy at 5 to 1, and the pair finished as the public
had backed them. The rider of Sir William lost
his whip when turning into the straight, but it
was not thought the fact influenced the result in
any way. Mr. Humphrey Oxenham, The Gift’s
owner won an enormous amount on the race.
Correze started in the Carrington Stakes,
and it was thought by his party to be a good
thing, but the flying colt got away badly and
it didn’t come off. Six t > four on Wilga and 2to 1
against Utter was the betting about the Lady
Carington Prize, and again were the public cor-
rect in placing first and second horses. The im-
proved course was greatly admired on all hands,
but the new ground proved heavy running. This
was noticeable in the finish for the Two-year-old
Selling Race, when Dona appeared to tire a bit
coming up the straight, but upon Dunhey taking
her over to the old ground the filly appeared to
have new life thrown into her.
* * *
One of the first, if not the first, two-year-
old at Randwiek on Saturday was a filly called
Salvage, by Grand Flaneur from Lilia, and owned
by Mr. W. A. Long. She started in the Two-
year-old Selling Race, but as Dunhey took off his
spurs just before the start, it did not look as if her
owner wished to have her unduly knocked about.
If appearances go for anything she should be
worth watching.
* * #
The London Pelican Club oilers a purse of
£lOOO for a boxing-match between Jackson and
Slavin. The Bulletin has an idea that J ackson’s
agreement with the Californian Athletic Club
will prevent him from accepting the offer.
# * *
The “books” laid some long prices over
the Summer Cup, one Hebrew laying 100 to 1
Sorella five times over, and £lOO to £3 Bonnie
Spec, who ran second. One prominent layer of
odds had no less than three clerks, and so soon as
a race was over two would pay away whilst the
third stayed with the mighty one and booked bets
for the coming events.
# # *
The intercolonial cricket match was won
by Victoria by eight wickets in spite of the big
score of Alick Bannerman. Victoria made 251
and 120. New South Wales 109 and 201.
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
The success of the Victorian cricketers is
supposed to be due to their free use of Marshall’s
Tonic Nervine.
Creelman & Co., photographers, Sydney
Arcade, are determined to meet the times. Just
look at their prices.
The whites and the blacks have, it is
cabled, had a fracas in Georgia (U.S.) The great
trouble approaches.
A Ballarat paper says that Sir Henry
Parkes “owes everything to his head.” Wrong.
He owes a good deal to his creditors.
Dr. Youl, the Melbourne Coroner, says it
can be determined by the examination of a dead
man’s liver whether he lived in a hotel or at a
private house.
Ebenezer Ward, late Chairman of Com-
mittees in the South Australian Parliament, has
been declared a Honorable within the Province.
Isn’t he honorable within the “ Ward ?”
A labour member wears his working-blouse
in the French Assembly. His blouse is more than
a garment, it is a flag. In Australia the quasi-
labour representative wears broadcloth and a bell-
topper—which is also a flag.
If ducats were dactyls, spondulex, spondees,
Her Majesty’s verses the public might please ;
But they’re doomed to be damned, none will
swallow, that’s sartin,
The Queen’s milk and water plus Theodore Martin
We read that the Imperial Parkin has
returned to England from Australia, ‘ 1 with enlarged
knowledge, confirmed faith, increased enthusiasm,
and a gleam of victory in his eye.” Julius Caesar,
the lunatic whom you meet in every mad-hospital,
also has a gleam of victory in his eye.
James Munro, cold-water fowl and leader
of the Victorian Opposition, at the breakfast given
him the other day, on the occasion of his depar-
ture for Europe, remembered when the then
presiding Chairman of Committees and the
Speaker were so drunk that they could not speak.
People do not forget that one of the disadvantages
of the teetotal member is that he is never too
drunk to speak.
The Marquis of Douro, a born natural, the
old Duke of Wellington’s eldest son, was remark-
ably like his father in personal appearance. The
Duke being once asked by a lady whether any of
the numerous caricatures of him, which appeared
in the papers, caused him any annoyance, replied,
“Not a bit, madam, not a bit” —and then, after
a pause, “the only caricature of me that ever
caused me any annoyance is—Douro.”
The Pretoria!! (African) Executive, peti-
tioned to exclude Asiatics, have replied that they
are prevented from complying with the request
;by Article XIV. of the London Convention of
1881, which states that “ All persons other than
natives conforming to the laws of the South
African Republic will have full liberty with their
families to enter, travel, go into business, or reside
in any part of the South African Republic while
not subject to special taxation.”
Chamberlain, sen., notes that a shoemaker
or a tailor is almost always a Radical, a baker is
almost always a Liberal, and a butcher almost
always Conservative. A Radical would, of course,
account for this by saying that the butcher’s trade
finds its affinities in Conservatism. He might
also add that the London cabby is always a
Tory, and that all the dirty, low-class British
semi-sporting prints are Conservative from title-
page to conclusion.
The S. M. Herald is delightfully candid
in its criticism of Premier Parkes’ latest volume
of verse. It says—“He has no great or final
claims to be considered a poet. But when the
romantic, the imaginative, the quietly human is
approached, the author faces an impossible wall.
He then has neither grace nor finish, rhyme nor
music, tenderness nor form, nor any of that poetic
language which, like the colours of an artist, are
only beautiful when genius holds the brush. And
thus it is we are forced to say there is not much in
this book but which might have been said with
greater grace and force in prose, and then there
would have been left as goodly a heritage to Sir
Henry Parkes’ admirers as is here set down and
given.”
That magisterial dragoon, James Ander-
son Panton, has been absent from Melbourne
District Court Bench for a long time, engaged at
the Licensing Court. Meanwhile, the Chairman
of the Bench is Mr. Rappiport, and day after day
the Bench is made up of nothing but Jews, not a
single Christian or even an Infidel. This is not a
desirable thing. Jewish litigants even don’t like
it. They think Rappiport may be extra hard on
them for fear of being thought biased in their
favour. However, Rappiport is an admirable
magistrate and pluckily held on tT> the Bench in
face of a disagreeable family scandal, for which
he was in no way responsible. He, Craib the
Bourke-street draper, and Dr. Lloyd, of Hotham,
arc amateur beaks fully up to the Call and Panton
standard. Mr. Rappiport is blind, and thus fulfils
one attribute of J ustice. For business cases no
man can approach him. His perception is ex-
tremely rapid, and Panton would seldom go
wrong if he listened to Rappiport’s croaking at
his right elbow.
“FIRM ATTITUDE OF ENGLAND.”
The Portuguese across the seas
Our British Lion dare to tease,
And (when the foe is feeble) he’s
A noble beast to roar —
A fearful creature to displease,
His tail he waveth in the breeze,
And rather deeper than his knees
He wants to wade in gore.
Were Portugal a stronger State,
Less languid and effeminate,
Not altogether out of date,
That Lion of renown
Politely would expostulate,
Or call on friends to arbitrate —
While prudence, like a leaden weight,
Would keep his “ caudal ” down.
TO ALL WHOM IT MAY CONCERN.
£100 REWARD.
Hundreds of testimonials have from time to
time been published in the Australian Press laud-
ing the well-known merits of St. Jacobs oil, testi-
monials from leading and representative men and
other reputable citizens of Australia, Great
Britain, and America, and a cash reward of one
hundred pounds will be paid by the Charles A.
Vogeler Company of Baltimore, Maryland, United
States of America, proprietors of St. Jacobs oil,
or by their accredited local representatives, to any
person producing proof to the effect that the tes-
timonials published by them in regard to St.
Jacobs oil are not strictly genuine. St. Jacobs
oil lias a greater demand and larger sale than all
other embrocations and liniments in the world
collectively. It conquers pain. It cures Rheu-
matism, Neuralgia, Headache, Toothache, Back-
ache, and all similar ailments. Directions for use
in eleven languages.
MATCH IT.
Here Follows Just a Sample op what the
Greatest Remedy for Pain can do in a
Case of Chronic Rheumatism.
A CRIPPLED BOY.
Some years ago, Messrs. Goorge C. Osgood and
Co., Lowell, Mass., wrote to the Charles A.
Vogeler Co. as follows :—Mr. Lewis Dennis, 13(1
Mcody-street, desires to recommend St. Jacobs
oil to any afflicted with rheumatism, as he has
obtained benefit by usmg it, but he desires
especially to say, that “Orin Robinson, of Grant-
ville, Mass., a boy of 12 years, came to his house
in the summer of 1881, walking on crutches, his
left leg being being bent back. He could not
walk upon it. Mr. Dennis had some St. Jacobs
oil in the house and gave it to him to rub on his
knee. In six days he had no use for crutches, and
went home well without them, and he lias been
well since. St. Jacobs oil cured him.” ,
C ONCLUSION—NO R EL APSE.
“Lowell, Mass., July 9th, 1887. Gentlemen,—
Mi\ Lewis Dennis has just called upon me, and in-
forms me of the boy Orin Robinson, who was a
poor cripple on crutches, and was cured by St.
Jacobs oil in 1881; the cure has remained per-
manent. The young man has been and is now at
work every day at manual labour, a case certainly
which proves the efficacy of St. Jacobs oil. Mr.
Dennis tells me also that he had rheumatism
in his knee (tried many remedies, but of no use)
and it cured the rheumatism permanently, as it
has not troubled him for years.— Geo. C. Osgood,
M.D.”
IN SHORT,
By this showing St. Jacobs oil cures the worst
chronic and crippled cases ; cures promptly, cures
permanently ; in this case without recurrence of
pain in six years intervening since 1881. Sold by
all chemists and dealers in medicine.
Wholesale depot for N.S.W. :
Messrs. Elliott Bros., Limited, Sydney.
LOW COST v. CHEAP WATCHES.
The Waterbury is not a cheap watch in the or-
dinary sense of the term ; it is simply a first-class
timepiece manufactured at low cost , through an un-
exampled combination of inventive genius in
producing wonderfully accurate machinery, allied
to the use of materials that are first-class in
quality, but as inexpensive as possible, and
those joined to a multiplicity of construction
that permits labour to be utilised to its-
furthest possible extent. The labour, like the
material, is of the highest order of its class, and is
correspondingly remunerated. It simply demon-
strates that an intelligent American workman,,
thoroughly trained to his position and aided by
manifold and perfect-acting machinery, can earn
not only far superior wages, but can produce more
at less cost than the ignorant, dull and plodding:
European who follows in the footsteps of hi»
ancestors, and who no more dreams of progress
than he does of aspiring to a companionship with
kings. The hand-fitted Swiss watches are pro-
duced at what Americans would term starvation
wages. They are correspondingly poor in
every particular. They are cheap. They
are made to sell. They fulfil their purpose,,
and they bring execrations upon the heads*
of retail watch-dealers. Look for a moment
into the future. Does it pay to disgust
a customer? Above all, if that customer
is a boy ? A boy feels disappointment keenly.
He spends his money upon a watch that will not
last, that cannot be made to keep time. Does he
forget it ? His companion buys a low coat Water-
bury, which does keep accurate time, and which
will and does last. He has confidence in the
dealer. But does the first boy feel kindly towards
the man who sold him the cheap Swiss watch?
No. In later years he will avoid that dealer, and
say to himself, “ That’s the man who stuck me on
a cheap watch.”


HOT WEATHER
To counteract the enervating, relaxing, and evi
effects of the heat and depressing nature of the
climate in this country during the summer months
no remedy has ever appeared before the public to
equal or even that would bear comparison with
Clements’ Tonic,
it prevents fever, malaria and ague, keeps up
the appetite, assists digestion and assimilation,
stimulates the stomach, liver, kidneys, and bowels ;
thus preventing liver and kidney disease, and
warding off their unpleasant symptoms, as head-
ache, constipation, piles, gout, rheumatism, dropsy,
apoplexy, &c. The summer is the time when
Clements’ Tonic is the medecine par excellence
for the people. It prevents the relaxation and
depression so prevalent in the hot weather in
these latitudes ; it enriches the blood, aids
perspiration, and restores all lust nerve-power;
is the only reliable anti-febrifuge and pick-me-up
prepared in the colonies, and be depended
n|x>n to do yowl and cure disease. The action of
Clements’ Tonic is certain, sure, and prompt;
relief is felt immediately after taking the first
dose : it acts direct on the seat of disease and
cures the cause, and then the effects of that cause
cease. Most other remedies offered are prepared
with a view of treating the symptoms, con-
sequently, as soon as the effect of the medicine
passes away the trouble returns, and the patient
wants another bottle of medicine. This may be
very good for the maker of the remedy (?) but it is
not at all satisfactory to the patient. Clements’
Tonic positively, effectually, and permanently
cures ; it does not only relieve, like most of the
narcotic mixtures sold, but radically effects a cure ;
and if the patient only avoids the source from
which ho or she contracted the illness in the
first place, a relapse is impossible. Moreover,
Clements' Tonic does not constringe the gastric
vessels of the stomach or cause indigestion, and
will not injure nor discolour the teeth. We shall be
glad to enter into particulars with any corres-
pondents who like to address us at Newtown.
Sydney, personally or by post.
THOMAS GARRETT, ESQ., M.P.
(late Minister of Lauds),
suffered from
Weakness ! Indigestion!
AND
Poor Appetite!
he procured
CLEMENTS’ TONIC,
and gracefully acknowledges the benefit
lie derived.
Sydney, October IS, 1889.
Dear Sir, 1 bare used Clements’ Tonic w ith Very
Great Advantage. It is very Stimulating, and a
powerful aid to appetite and digestion.—Yours truly,
THOS. GARRETT.
If you are a sufferer follow Mr. Garrett’s lead, take
Clements’ Tonic and you will derive the same benefit.
“ Thought his case beyond the Power of
Medicine.”
Kangaroo Valley, N.S.W., April 3, ’B9.
Übar Sir, —1 have very much pleasure in bearing witness
lo the great value of Clements’ Tonic in eases of
LASSITUDE. NERVOUSNESS AND CONSTITUTIONAL
DEBILITY GENERALLY. For more than 12 months I
was a martyr t 6 extreme lassitude, loss of appetite, sleep-
lessness, and their concomitant train of physical troubles,
so much so that I feared 1 should have to abandon my
profession as a journalist, writing being particularly
irksome and laborious to me. 1 tried several advertised
tonics (?) with little or no good result, and began to think
my case beyond the power of medicine to cure. However,
seeing your Tonic advertised in some of my Exchanges,
1 concluded to try it as a “dernier resort;” and I am
pleased to say the result was most, satisfactory. After
taking one bottle I found my appetite much improved ; I
could sleep more soundly, and felt refreshed next morn-
ing. I continued the medicine, taking in all six large
bottles, and gradually all my distressing symptoms dis-
appeared. 1 now feel myself stronger than ever, and as
near perfect health as a man who has to bear the strain of
constant literary work can expect to he. I can confidently
recommend Clements’ Tonic to all persons suffering
from loss of nerve force through sickness or mental over-
work, and am most happy to support my testimony with
my signature.—And remain, dear Sir, Yours faithfully,
I*. JEFFERSON WALLACE,
Editor and Proprietor “ Kangaroo Valley Pioneer.”
Gave him new Health and Strength.”
75 King Street, Sydney, March 19, ’B9.
Dear Sir, —Kindly send me two more bottles of
Clements’ Tonic and permit me to express my thanks
and oratitude at the results obtained by taking two large
bottles. I had had a'groat amount of business worry to
contend against, which, together with the long hours I had
stuck to it, completely undermined my constitution, and
made me feel very tired, weak and ill, my nerves being
quite shattered. I was so nervous that the accidental
slamming of a door would cause me to start violently, my
heart would beat very rapidly, and I would break out in a
profuse perspiration, afterwards having a sensation of
extreme weakness. lasting for some hours ; my sleep at
night was disturbed : 1 awoke in the morning wit h head-
ache and aching limbs, and quite unrefreshed. 1 had no
appetite, no strength, and no inclination to work, and was
completely run out. I was persuaded by your advertise-
ments to try Clements’Tonic, and am a different man
ever since ; it gave me new health and strength, increased
mv appetite, and made me relish my food ; I increased in
flesh, I lost all nervous feelings, and now feel stronger
than ever, and am glad to hear test mony to the value of
vour wonderful remedy. Yours, Ac., tv. D. BRAHAM.
When influential men like these allow their names to
appear in endorsement of a medicine, it proves, beyond all
question, the bona fide* of that preparation, if you arc
still sceptical you can write to all or any and they will
answer you : No other medicine can show such proof
although there are scores of counterfeits on the market,
it rests with the public to guard itself against imposture,
i >nly meritorious articles arc imitated and pirated, that is
why so many substitutes for Clement’s Tonic are on
sale. Such imitation is the greatest proof of the reliability
of Clements’ Tonic.
Sold. Everywhere.
To our Patrons.
Some Chemists. &c., being so blind to their
own interests that they do not stock this line.
I will supply it direct at the following rates,
packed free on rail or steamer:
Half-doz. PinJ. (4s. 6d.> Bottles for 255., or
One doz. do. do. 455,
Exchange must be added to intercolonial and country
cheques, and freight where goods have to be sent by
steamer. Clements’ Tonic is a genuine article and
meets with patronage by all classes, always gives satis-
faction. Pirates only imitate, they cannot compete
with it.
F. M. CLEMENTS, NEWTOWN
Building Sites, City of Perth, W.A. Plana
Intercolonial Investment Co., Limited, OGBathurs'
street, Sydney.
When next you bake try Pemell’s Snow-white Patent
Roller Flour, and your bread will be as white as snow.
Nota Bene! Tn addition to their High Class old
Wines, Messrs. Hookings & Co., of 410 George-slreet, have
accepted the agency of the Australian Wine Company,
Limited, for their superior cheap wines.
Special Advertisements.
JOHN BRIDGE & CO.,
CIRCULAR QUA V. SUSSEX STREET, dc
DA RLIXO 11A RBO UR,
WOOL BROKERS,
Hides, Tallow, Sheepskins, Kangaroo, Bear and
Opossum Skins, <kc.
ATJCTIOLTEEES.
GRAIN SiALESMIEKT.
DR. SPEER’S
AMERICAN DISPENSARY
3 X "ST or k. Street.
P.O. Box 920.
Dr. Speer is a regular Graduated Physician, educated at
Harvard College, U.S. (for confirmation see New Zealand
Gazette, January 21st, 1880; also New South Wales
Gazette, April 17th, 1888). The doctor has devoted 14
years to the study of CHRONIC, NERVOUS, AND
SPECIAL DISEASES. Four of these were in the leading
hospitals of the United States, which enables him to treat
all complaints with excellent results. All applying to
him will receive his honest opinion of their complaints.
No experimenting ;no Mercury used. He will guarantee
a positive cure in every case he undertakes, or forfeit
£2OO. His reason for doing so is this—when there is not
organic disease, and nothing but an inorganic trouble, or,
in other words, a conglomeration of symptoms producing
a certain result, there is no reason why it cannot be re-
moved with the proper remedies, therefore he guarantees.
He w ishes it distinctly understood that he does not claim
to perform impossibilities, or to have miraculous power
he claims only to he a skilled and successful physician
thoroughly informed in his speciality—CHßONlC and
SPECIAL DISEASES of MEN and WOMEN. People
residing at a distance can, by explaining their troubles in
detail he treated at home. The course of treatment will
not in any way interfere with their business. Examina-
tion and advice free to all. Charges moderate. H. J.
Speer, M D., 31 York-street, Sydney. Post Office Box,
No. 920. Office hours, 10 a.m. 012 a.m. 2to 4 and 7
to 8 p.m. Sundays from 10 to 11 a.m. only.
- ’>
°'C Tu
T O YOXJ3XTG dVT 3E3 KT.
DR. FLETCHER’S
TREATISE ON NERVOUS DISEASES. THEIR CAUSE,
SYMPTOMS, TREATMENT, AND CURE.
THE directions contained in this little treatise will be
found of immense benefit to the sufferer; and if these
directions are observed during the early stages of Nervous
or Sexual Debility, No Medicine? will he required, as. by
observing the directions given, the patient can Cure Him-
self.
This admirable little treatise is specially written to
show a method of counteracting the evil effects of indis-
cretions in early life—overwork, irregularity in eating or
drinking, &c. It is the result of much study and long
and successful experience in the treatment of diseases,
and contains a fund of useful information to every suf-
ferer from the following complaints, viz. Nervous
Debility, Dizziness, Specks before the Eyes, Pains in the
Back, Defective Memory, Loss of Will Power, Loss of
Energy, Spermatorrhoea, Bashfulness, Discontentedness,
Constipation, Liver and Kidney Derangements, Atrophy,
Impotence, Impure Blood, Foul Taste in Mouth, Palpita-
tion of Heart, Wakefulness, Despondency, Excessive Ner-
vousness, Inability to Marry, Premature Decay, and other
symptoms experienced by nervous sufferers.
All Should Send for this Little Treatise.
If the complaint is of long standing and requires
medicine, Dr. Fletcher will GUARANTEE TO CURE
ANY CASE OF NERVOUS or SEXUAL DEBILITY
with ONE COURSE OF MEDICINES LASTING FIVE
WEEKS, and will send with medicines A WRITTEN
GUARANTEE to cure same or return the monies paid.
Dr. Fletcher’s treatment is both simple and effective,
and within the reach of the poorest. It is unlike any
other, and with it he has cured over 25,000 patients, and
invites patients to investigate his statements by verifying
the testimonials published in his treatise. The treatise
will be forwarded on receipt of two stamps to cover
postage.
CONSULTATION BY LETTER, FREE.
Address in first instance—
DR. H. EWART FLETCHER,
Box 1417, G.P.O.
Sydney, N.S.W.
Private address—Clonmel House, Waverley, Sydney.
Remember, all cases undertaken, guaranteed, and a
signed agreement given, which provides that NO COST
be incurred by the patient if a cure is not effected.
VARICOCELE RADICALLY CURED WITHOUT
OPERATION.
Mention this Paper.
£
>un s »i
ft B P
"rA '0 X
m
rORO
zz
t-fl*
0
-
•aw ws
iiiii c
:f -
-’ CCr«IC PHOTO-ENC. CO . 8 ORIDCE-ST.. SYONPY-
The ° xt ord Hotel. King Street, Sydney.
••• ••• ... PI’OI’UIETOU.
Jl. THORPE
JONES’ SEWING MACHINES
FOR THE BOOT AND TAILORING TRADES.
'The Best Manufacturing Machines in Existence.
Now Perfected, the New No. 3 and No. 4 Machines on an Entirely new System.
stock: just lauditu.
JB"* 1 €3l. gs, J 3., nxr Otj Xj 13.<3 It XU, nJfe c> o>-,
TANKERS AND LEATHER MERCHANTS,
ie v YORK • E* X7lFt*£JEirr, x SX-TOJ>TES'Sr.
Sole Agents for the above for New South Wales and tjm <nsland. •
ALSO fm|>o) (its ! KciiuKitf-s foi
IMI niri |. |i U,\ | Hi.] & c . ,
i:nni, iiia Tanner' 1/
(x)-
lit
uul Material*!
'M. T’.’ AIH, >:i ill Du!ails, iiu hnliny MACIIIM'.UV
. i>i- r... iI. ns I,fuss Sniln Ni.M ~,
I - iltd! 11 'i I ■ ■Mn-I T- -.d.
Medical.
DR. RICHARDS.
rjoON'S
LTI
CONS
pai
HR RICHARDS
C
*
r
■BMIHSIf
.
■
\ -
This eminent Specialist, Founder, and Chief
Surgeon of the long-established and favourably -
known Dispensary that now bears his name, re-
ceived his medical education in the leading colleges'
and hospitals of Europe. He has devoted a life-
time to the study of
PRIVATE, NERVOUS, AND SKIN
DISEASES.
He has by profound research thoroughly investi-
gated their origin, traced their deadly sources and
insidious dissemination, and ascertained the surest
and safest methods by which they may be eradi-
cated, with these widely recognised qualifications
combined with unswerving faithfulness to his
patients, he has during his practice, extending
over FORTY YEARS, attained a well-deserved
pre-eminence in their treatment. His practice
embraces diseases which probably cause more un-
happiness than any other class of troubles that
afflict mankind.
YOUNG MEN
who suffer from the results of early follies, trans-
gressions or excesses of more nature age, bladder
difficulties, a whitish or dark ropy sediment in
the water, accompanied by slight burning or
smarting sensation, Headaches, Drowsiness during
the day, circles round the eyes, Giddiness,
irregularity of the bowels, specks before the eyes,
bashfulness, discontentedness, weakness or pains
in the back, Liver or kidney complaints, dreams,
buzzing noises in the ears and head, pimples, a
fear that something dreadful is about to happen,
weak stomach, yellow or blood-shot eyes, impure
blood, hasty, uncontrollable temper, hacking
cough, who cannot marry, nervousness in society,
wakefulness, palpitation of the heart, general
weakness, and other symptoms which lead to in
sanity and death, should consult him, for ho has
mastered these difficulties. On receipt of (id. in
stamps he will send secure from observation in a
plain wrapper, postage
FREE, A LARGE CLOTH-BOUND
BOOK.
Showing plainly how all diseases of the private or
nervous system may be cured thoroughly and per-
manently without unnecessary exponce. This
book will prove a valuable companion, and even
though you be perfectly well its general intona-
tion and prescription may assist you in restoring
some poor friend to health even after his case has
been pronounced incurable by his medical at-
tendant,
ONE FOUND IS SUFFICIENT TO
SEND
for Remedies necessary for the cure of NER-
VOUS DEBILITY. Should you require medic aI
treatment, as procrastination is sometimes dan-
gerous, it would be advisable for you to sit down
quietly in your chamber and write to the doctor,
detailing every experienced symptom. He will
on receipt of such a letter, write you, promplly
and courteously, a candid and straightforward
oponion of your case. If you do not think you
understand the case, send for his famous medical
work, the price of which is but sixpence ; enclosed
n the volume will be found a Ist of carefully-pre -
pared questions, which will, in all probability,
assist you materially in describing your ailment.
Dr. Richards uses nothing but the purest remedies,
and never prescribes mercury under any circum-
stances. The moment letters are carefully per-
used and answered they are destroyed by fliv.
and patients may rest assured that their eases
will remain a secret between (lie doctor and
themselves. Dr. Richards has successfully treat cd
nearly 25,000 cases since coming to Australia, and
has permission from at least, 10,000 persons to
show their written evidence of his success. All
communications should be addressed
Dr. RICHARDS.
7 Spring Street.
(Ofi Pill Street .North)
S Y D FT E Y.
Be sure to mention this pip r when writiii*
coysrr/r.vnoN i i:i;r
AN EXCUSE.
“I don't believe you have been to die Sunday-school. You've been in swimming. Your hair is
wet and your trousers are hind part foremost.”
“Well, you see, Mar, I was runnin’ so hard ter Sunday-school that my head got all wet wid
perspiration and then I fell down, and I was going so fast 1 turned over in my trousers.”
—AMER,


Beale & Oo.'s New Warehouse.
**
ODE NEW SHOW-ROOMS AND WAREHOUSES!
482 & 484 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Something New in Sewing Machines !
THE BEALE PATENT MACHINE.
What is there Special about it?
The restless march of invention has enabled us
to bring before the public improvements of im-
mense value, to some short account of which we
beg your attention for a few moments. Our call-
ing is to relieve the home-mother of all that may
weary her in sewing, and to make the same
throughout a pleasure. That we have during the
last ten years succeeded in so doing, scores of
thousands will testify. And to-day we are supply-
ing a„ machine whose range of work is absolutely
complete, transcending the hopes and dreams of
years. The construction and form are such as to
place it altogether above and beyond competition,
and for the truth of which assertions, as of the
following, we humbly request that your own eyes
may be the judges.
THE IMPROVED HIGH ARM. A great
desideratum with ladies has been the raising of the
arm of the machine, so as to allow the goods to be
sewn to pass freely underneath. This had to be
accomplished without increasing the weight of the
machine. In fact, the Beale runs with wonderful
ease and rapidity. It is almost silent, all clicking
sounds having been obviated. As is well-known,
a good test of the finish of any mechanism is its
silence when in rapid motion.
ALAR GER RANGE OF APPLIANGES is
provided than with any other machine. Samples
of work performed upon these we are prepared at
all times to submit, whilst an elaborate Instruction
Book is supplied, which is alone sufficient to
explain their uses and their applicability to every
requirement
NICKEL-PLATING.—In our climate the
exposed parts of the machine, and the appliances,
need to be protected from rust. We have, at
considerable expense, added a handsomely nickeled
wheel, nickeled plates, screws, appliances, treadle-
bar and cones, heightening the appearance. These
improvements also tend largely to preserve the
parts. This plating- is imperishable
A MUCH LARGER DRAWER has taken the
place of the cramped and clumsy contrivance of
former years. When closed it securely fastens the
coyer, and is provided with a lock and key.
THE WOODWORK is handsomer than ever,
being always of selected and inlaid Walnut. All
of it has been exposed for weeks in the drying-
room of the Factory to a temperature reaching as
high as 170 degrees ; thus when kept out of damp
and sunshine, it will endure our most trying
climates.
A SELF-THREADING SHUTTLE of solid
steel, saving the trouble of threading by the end
of the cotton. It has an excellent tension, is
strong and simple.
THE BOBIN WINDER is a marvel of in-
genuity, winding and guiding the cotton by itself,
as evenly as upon the real whence it came, and
stopping of its own accord when the bobin is full.
The baby’s tiny clothing, upon which mothers love to
display their choicest handiwork; the boy's tweed suit,
the drawing-room carpet, may all be stitched by the won-
derful BEALE Machine. Examples of all kinds of sewing
required in dresses, millinery, underclothing, tailoring and
upholstery will be shown and explained at our offices free
of charge.
With the wonderful BEALE Machine, whether for hand
or foot use, you can hem any width, make double seams
o» fells, braid, stitch with chenille, Berlin wool or gold
cord, and such like for fancy work; you may make a
pretty lace stitch, tuck ever so finely, bind dresses, coats,
or carpets; sew on trimmings without guiding, make
frilling, ruffling, or ruching ; quilt, weave your own braid
with any combination of colours, and stitch it on at the
same time; make thick woollen door mats, embroidered
antimacassars, window curtains, and so forth; you can
easily and rapidly perform the fashionable shirring or
gathering so popular for sleeves, bodies, or skirts of dresses
with an appliance supplied gratis ; lay the small cords in
hoods and stays; do large cording; gather with or without
a band, and generally do all kinds of straight sewing upon
any material whatever. You can darn upon any woven
goods, and do crewel work. You may make button and
eyelet holes, do overcasting, make herring-bone stitch
upon any materials. This work is absolutely unique, and
can only be accomplished upon the BEALE Patent
Machine.
■Any of these performances will be show at our shops
at any time. The BEALE Patent makes a lock-stitch
which cannot ravel, yet by a momentary alteration the
sewing can be done so as to rip from end to end if desired.
This peculiarity is sometimes useful w hen children's clothes
are intended to be altered.
We have a special word for husbands: When the day’s
business is over, and the evening meal is finished, the
wife—and perhaps the sister or daughter—sits down to her
sewing. With her hands alone she cannot, as aforesaid,
do anything like the whole of the work required. In a
corner of the room is perhaps an old-fashioned machine,
with which she may, by hard driving, occasionally stitch,
with a noise like a sausage-machine, a simple straight
ream ; but that is no great help. She ought to be able to
lo ALL the work with it, short of stitching on buttons,
which Ts a trifle. And we have known some instances
where the lady of the house is anxious to obtain a first-
class machine, that which will be the greatest of all helps
to her, but the husband demurs on the score of expense.
Why, it is the only article of the household furnishing
which will ever return you any part of the cost! If the
lady will use it, it MUST earn far more than the half a-
orown a week necessary to purchase it. On one little
garment she will save that sum, so that in addition to in-
creased comfort your household expenses will not be en-
larged, but ought to be diminished, by the possession of a
BEALE PATENT MACHINE. How often do we waste
money'upon really useless knick-knacks, or upon need-
lessly expensive articles and indulgences? The Machine
should far more than pay for itself during the time you
are clearing it off, and it will then become your own, earn-
ing or saving money as before. Is it not fairly to be
called a PROFITABLE INVESTMENT?
Cash or Easy Terms. Price Lists and Samples
Free by Post.
Beale & Company,
482 4 404 GEORGE STREET. SYDNEY
Or from our Branches and Travellers even where.
WILLIAM FLEMING,
Merchant, Sydney and Melbourne.
First Award:
MELBOURNE CENTENNIAL EXHIBITION.
eh, phots, mam ,
PONY CARTS, Abo., Abo.
Express & Lumber Waggons.
Harness for Buggies and Waggons.
Saw Mills. Flour Mills.
■ —% —
Agricultural Machinery,
i
Melbourne Oltlec:
No- 2 St- James’ Buildings, William Street-
Sjiluey Office t
22 & 24 Clarence Street
See Signature in
Blue Ink across
the Label thus:—
*
#
XJSE
Liebig COMPANY’S
EXTRACT OF MEAT
for Beef Tea, Soups and Entrees
Y&N
NEWEST INVENTION GREATEST NOVELTY.
THE
Y*N
PATENT DIAGONAL SEAM CORSET,
Patented in England and on the Continent.
Mill not Spill In the Seams nor Tear in the Fabric.
Exquisite Model. Perfect Comfort. Guaranteed Wear.
The says: “ These Corsets are a new departure. The material is cut on the
cross, and the component parts being also arranged diagonally, the seams have no strain.
They arc admirably modelled, exquisitely neat and strong, and the workmanship all
that could be desired.”
Eold Medal, New Zealand Exhibition, 1882.
4. 01 d Medal (Highest Award for Corsets), London
International Exhibition, 1884.
latest Award ! Gold Modal, International
Exhibition, Edinburgh, 1886.
CAUTION. —Beware of worthless imitations.
Every genuine Y & N Corset is stamped
“Y & N PATENT DIAGONAL SEAM
CORSET, No. 116,” in oval.
1
Sold by all Drapers’ and Ladies’ Outfitters in the United Kingdom and Colonies.
IVICHTNER & CO.,
SYDNEY:
318 GEORGE STREET
BRISBANE
9 ELIZABETH STREET
PHOTOGRAPHIC
—STOCK—
IMPORTERS.
K.
•
V***
fs*m
/isr SEND FOR OUR NEW ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE M
“OF—
CAMERAS, LENSES. CHEMICALS, MAGIC LANTERNS.
And all Articles appertaining to PHOTOGRAPHY.
):(
riarpj amateur
Business Announcements.
Falls Bridge Family TTotel.
Falls Bridge, Melbourne.
%
This magnificent Hotel, containing 50 Double
and Single Rooms, is splendidly furnished and
perfectly ventilated.
Hot and Cold Plunge and Shower Baths,
Electric Hells. Telephone 1217. Billiards, &v
Terms Strictly Moderate.
J. H. DUKKWT ~... Manager,
Late of the South Australian Club Hotel, Adelaide.
The AUSTRALIAN MERCANTILE LOAN and
GAURANTEE COMPANY, Limited.
Head Office—
Sydney: Corner of Market & York Streets.
Melbourne Branch: 283 Collins-street East.
Brisbane Branch: Corner Edward and Elizabeth Streets.
Newcastle Branch: 37 Hunter Street.
The Company grant immediate advances upon Deeds of
Land, Bills of Lading, Merchandise, Storage and Bond
Certificates, and all classes of mercantile and other approved
securities, for fixed terms or repayable by instalments.
A. MILLER, Acting-Manager.;
THE WINNING NUMBERS.
BRITISH PLATE
XSHEET CLASS,
<r
V
3^
<r~
23 5?
cn
merchants)
o
ri W
se o
n
4,
'VJ
o
-
€
V 0 chuusP .
-----
*v
flu#:
ARTISTIC
HOME DECORATORS.
DR. WESTCOTT’S amenorrhcea
PILLS for Ladies, when taken for a few
days before, quickly correct all irregularities
from whatever cause arising ; 2s. 9d. and 4s. 6d.,
by post 3s. and ss. W. H. SOUL and CO., 190
I’itt-street, Sydney, Agents.
rOLEMANEtSQflS
EuCALYPTE OlU'Sa.
*9?
Victory Ointment*
THE TREE. OF LIFE
The only pnre Encalypte in the World.
AWARDED Gold Medal Adelaide Jubilee
Exhibition. First Prize Great Centennial
Exhibition, Sydney. The only known CURB for
Asthma, Bronchitis, Consumption, Pleurisy.
Colds, Coughs, and all affections of the Chest and
Lungs; also, for Gout, Rheumatism, Sciatica,
etc. Our VICTORY OINTMENT stands with-
out a rival for Bad Legs, Bad Breasts, Cancers.
Tumours, and skin diseases of all kinds. Also,
manufacturers of the Encalypte Pills, Eucalypte
Hair Restorer, Eucalypte Soap, and our world-
famed Eucalypte Honey is the best preparation
before the public for young Children and aged
peop’e. Also, makers of the Eucalypte Lozenges
for the Voice. Manufactory— Cootamdndra.
Sydney Wholesale Depot-251 Elizabeth Street
Posted to any part of the Colonies. Sold Every-
where. Beware of Imitations.
I^OWS
Jw/t
EMBROCATION/ f
•ij® ;.**']
mM
| v EV V
m


H ORDERN and COMPANY,
NEXT ROYAL ARCADE, OPPOSITE CENTRAL MARKETS,
jar fob pretty dresses i fob?/ s-wieft hats boeosTets i
FOB?- CBIAB?-MIl>rG- PABACBITJTES I
FOB?- LOVELY GLOYES I
all It i*x *3. a of H oliday Attire (Fashionable and H. ea.s o *x a.t» 1e)
-yor CANNOT EQUAL
HORDERN and COMPANY, 486, 488, 490 Georg*e-street, Sydney
Next Royal Arcade, right opposite Central Markets.
175
CATERING COMPANY
(Late G-unsler’s Cafe)
Fitts Street, Sydney,
si
WISH their former Patrons and the Public Generally to know that their Saloons have been Entirely Reorganised, and shall be glad if they will gi\e
their new cusine a trial. JAMES G MARQUAND, Manager-
Cities’ life Assurance Company,
' , LIMITED.
Capital £200,000.
Head Office:
21 Castlereagh St, Sydney,
With Branches and Agencies throughout the Colonies.
Mew Business:
188 J There were Issued 19,55' Policies.
1888 .. 34.C84
1889 up 1« 38th October 48,8.13 „
These figures show the wonderful progress of the
Company and the high esteem placed upon its
liberal dealings by the public.
CLAIMS PAID
Immediately on Proof of Death.
JAMES P. GARVAN, \
WM. ALEX. SMITH, /
Managing Director.
Secretary.
BOOK of NATURE and Illustrated
Matrimonial Guide ♦ planation of the s truc-
ture and uses of the organs of life and generation in man
and woman, intended especially for the married, or those
intending to marry, and who conscientiously and honestly
desire to inform themselves upon the intent and nature
of marriage and its duties, to which is added A COM 1 LETK
MEDICAL TREATISE upon all diseases of the generative
organs, whether resulting from infection or sexual excesses
and abuse, with much other valuable and highly important
information, illustrated with more than fifty engravings,
by M. Lafayette Bym, M.D. Price 3s. (id., post 4s.
The Fruits of Philosophy or Private Companion for
Married People, post Is. 2d.‘ Mrs. Besant’s Law of Popula-
tion, Is., post Is. 2d. Wonderful Song Book, extra large,
Is. (id. Decameron Boccaccio, 2s. Aristotle, complete,
3s. 6d., post 4s. Maria Monk, Is. 6d., post Is. 9d. New
complete; Fortune Teller, 2s.
“The Matron’s Manual ot Midwifery,” the book every
married woman needs ; price 75., posted 7s. 6d.
“ Nigger Stump Speeches and Comic Pattern,” price 6d.
“The Male Generative Organs,” their use and abuse
with many illustrations and coloured plates; price 75.,
post 7s. 6d.
The arts of Boxing, Swimming and Gymnastics made
easy, enabling any one to become an expert Boxer and
Athlete, illustrated with fifty engravings, price Is., post
free. Agent for London Reynolds, Referee, Dispatch,
Dublin Freeman, Glasgow Mail. Advanced, and Republican
literature on sale.
Sir Robert Bear,
Radical Book Stores,
PARK STREET, SYDNEY.
CHUBB AND PRAEGER,
EMPIRE PHOTOGRAPHIC GALLERIES
BEALE'S CHAMBERS.
482 Sc 484 George Street, opposite the Markets.
o-
FOR High-class PORTRAITS the Sydney
Public are respectfully invited to pay a
Visit to the above Galleries, which are now ad-
mitted to be the Finest and most Complete Set of
Apartments devoted to Photography in the Aus-
tralian Colonies.
o
Note the Small Charge now made for Photos
of the Best Quality and Finish.
o
TAKE ELEVATOR
J]DWIN g. goertz,
Stock ami Share Broker,
-A-O-ZETsTT,
BRISBANE.
Member of the Brisbane Stock Exchange.
„ THE WONDERFUL
VICTORIA” ORQANETTE,
Iha Most Marvellous Musical Instrument in
the World.
A £3 Instrument for Only £1 15s.
We are the Sole Proprietors of this WONDERFUL and
FIRST-CLASS ORGANETTE. It is a Reed Instrument and is
constructed on the same principle as an Organ with Bellows,
and Full Sized Reeds. The music consists of perforated sheets]
which are put into the Organette. furnishing either Finished
Solo Performance, & Rich Accompaniment to the Voice, or
Valuable Orchestral Effects. They are marvels of Musical
Invention, and combine in themselves all the principles upon
which automatic Organs. Organcttes. &c.. are now being made,
requiring no skill ip. the performer. Any child old enough to
use its hands intelligently can play, and the Range of Music i«
Absolutely Unlimited.
We wish to introduce one of these Organettes in every town
and parish throughout the Australian Colonies, and in order to
do so speedily have concluded to sell a Limited Number to the
readers of this paper at ONLY £llss. each, but your order must
be received on or before May Ist, 1890, as we shall place the
Organette at £3 each after that date. We will positively not
sell more than ONE ORGANETTE to any one person at this
reduced price, as we only make this unprecedented offer to
introduce this First-Class Organette throughout the world,
well knowing that after one is received in a neighbourhood we
will sell several at Our Regular Price.
We are the Sole Proprietors of THE WONDERFUL
''VICTORIA” ORGANETTE, and you must order direct from
us. or.through our Authorised Agents Remember, the Won-
derful “Victoria” Organettes are Large and Powerful
Instruments, built in the most durable style, highly pol ished
and decorated ih Gold ; the Reeds being so powerful that they
produce sufficient volume of music for the Chapel, Parlour,
Lodge, Ball Room or Picnic Party. There is nothing about
them to get out of order; in fact, they produce a richer and
sweeter sound after having been used a few years. For Home
Entertainments they are Unsurpassed.
U3he Illustration will give you but a faint idea of Size
and Finish of this beautiful instrument, but we will return the
money and pay carriage to any one who is not perfectly satisfied
after receiving it. It Sings its Own Praises. With each
Organette we enclose a selection of popular tunes Free, and pack
all in a strong box. If you are in Melbourne at any time, call
on us, or if you have friends living here, you can request them
to call and purchase for you. If you wish to act as an agent
for us. send AT ONCE and secure the agency for your section.
You Can Easily Sell the Instruments at £3 to £4 Each.
Hundreds of Testimonials Received. Send money by Registered
Letter, Money Order, Draft, or Postal Note.
B3T COUPON.—This Coupon will entitle the holder to
one of the Wonderful “VICTORIA" ORGANETTES,
provided it is sent with £1 15s. and order, not later than
May Ist, 1890, No order will bo accepted without
this Coupon,unlessfull price, £3. is sent. £llss. includes
all charges for carriage by railway, steamboat, ooach,
or carrier, all over Australia.
(Signed) The Victoria Manufacturing and Importing Co.
Address or call on the Victoria Manufacturing
and Importing Co., 256 Collins St., Melbourne.
HUNGARIAN
NATURAL APERIENT WATER.
For Constipation, Indigestion
UK*
Stomach St Liver Complaints ▼
OF ALL CHEMISTS IN AUSTRALASIA
The Natural Mineral Waters of
(STATE
f
SPRINGS.)
GRANDE-GRILLE— For Affections of th«
Liver, Biliary Organs, &0.
CELEBTINS.—For the Kidneys, Gravel, Gont
Rheumatism, Diabetes, Ac.
HOPITAL.—For Stomach Complaints.
HADTERIYB.—An excellent Table Water.
Or ALL CHEMISTS IN AUSTRALASIA.
A Wonderful Remedy-
MARSHALL’S TONIC NERVINE
Is now Universally Acknowledged to lie a wonderful
Remedy for Nervous and General Debility, Nervous
Prostration, Torpidity of the Liver, Indigestion, Palpit-
ation of the Heart, Nervous Headache, Diabetes, Lassitude,
Impaired Nutrition, Neuralgia, Hypochondria, Loss of
Energy, and Appetite, Female Complaints, Dizziness,
Noises in the Head and Ears, Loss of Vital Power, Aloholic
Craving, Premature Decline, Impoverished Blood, Im-
paired Sight and Memory, Consumption in its early stages,
Effects of Youthful Indiscretions, Mania, and all diseased
conditions of the system preceding from Deficiency of
Nerve Force. A few doses speedily afford relief, whilst a
course effects a permanent cure. Innumerable instances
emphatically testify to the truth of this statement.
Thousands of testimonials invite the afflicted to test it for
themselves.
Each Drop is Wox-th a Drop of Gold.
There is no remedy like Marshall’s Tonic Nervine for
Female Complaints. Every female should have a
bottle ready at hand, because for Irregularities, etc.,
it surpasses all others. As the nervous system is the
main-spring of human vigor and healthful regularity,
so where this complicated organism is deranged, Marshall’s
Tonic Nervine acts with a precision and curative effect
like the day spring dispersing the shades of night. The
whole organic system which depends upon the nerves for
its streams of electric force is recuperated and renewed
with this Great Vitaliser. The muscles rebound with the
energy of youth, appetite and healthful condition follow.
The skin becomes bright and clear, and the winter of
disease is made summer by the glorious sun of health.
Thousands of restored patients everywhere gladly support
the forcible truth of these assertions, and one trial will
render certainly doubly sure.
Marshall’s Tonic Nervine
Is sold by all Chemists and Storekeepers, and is
ONLY PREPARED BY
MARSHALL BROTHERS,
410, George Street, Sydney.
N.B. —In consequence of spurious imitations of “Tonic
Nervine,” which are calculated to deceive the public,
Marshall Bros, have to request that purchasers see that
the Label on every bottle bears their signature, thus—
without which no bottle is genuine. Ask for Marshall’s
Tonic Nervine and see that you get it. Trade mark:
“Tonic Nervine.”
ƒ
BURGLARY.
The British Australian and New Zealand
Fire, Marine, and Accident Insurance Co„
Limited,
85 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY,
ISSUES POLICIES indemnifying Householders
against loss by BURGLARY.
Rates Low. Settlement Prompt.
All communications to be addressed to the
Managing Director.
AGENTS and CANVASSERS Wanted.
—FALLON’S—
CKIjEBRATED
ALBURY WINES.
Recommended by the Medical Faculty.
I NDISFENSABLE p.OR RADIES
AND ALL PERSONS
With a Delicate SiLLHI
If you wish to Protect yourself against CHAPPED
HANDS and CRACKED SKIN , and to keep YOUR
COMPLEXION in good condition during the whole
year use
£
(Savon au beurre de Cavan.)
Thin celebrated Soap consists chiefly of Cocoa putter, (Ar-
traded in the manufacture of Chocolate) which in TilE
MILDEST FAT KNOWF, and possesses a wonderfully
healing and softening influence upon the Skin. The
beneficent properties of this product make themselves
apparent by the delicious creamy lather it produces,
rendering even the coarsest SEIF AS SOFT AS
VELVET.
Cocoa Butter Soap is a real skin-beautifler, ami a balm to
young and old alike.
MOUSON & CO., PERFUMERS & TOILET SOAP MANUFACTURERS,
FR AN KFORT-ON-TIJE-MAINE,
LONDON: 32&33 HAINBELL-BT., E.C. PARIS: 29 RUE RADZIERILE'
Full guarantee for perfect purity is offered by the
sole Manufacturers, Mouson & Co.
JULIUS GOLDSCHMIDT & GO.,
231 CLARENCE-ST., SYDNEY,
SOLE AGENTS FOR AUSTRALASIA.
i±VHM
LARMIER'S
CELEBRATED
TONIC
CURES
Nervous Debility.
Sick Headache
Bilious Complaints
Fever and Ague-
Sleep’essness,
Liver and Blood-
THE TONIC OF THE AGE!
This being one of the best Restoratives yet
offered to the Public in the form of a Tonic.
Warranted to Build up the Constitution
at the same time acts as a Strengthening
Restorative in all cases.
BOTTLES at 2s. 6(1. and ss.
Post, Is Extra.
Prepared only by—
CAINS & CO., Chemists,
78 KING ST., SYDNEY.
For Sale by all CbemlsU.
M. W. ft Co.
> ■
fifes.
GB. MODINI. Gnnmaker, informs his Customers
• and the Public in general that he has the largest
assortment of Firearms in the colony. Qualities and prices
to defy competition. Agent for the following celebrated
gunmakers:—J. Purdey & Sons, Ch. Boswell, John Riobv
and Co., Joseph Lang & Sons, Oh. Osborne & Co., Thomas
Bland & Son. A large assortment of various other makers
always on hand, viz., W. W. Greener, Scott, Weblby,
Hollis & Sons, Riley and Casiimorb. All goods will be
faithfully guaranteed at 602 George-atroet, Sydney.
Price list on application.
'Will 100 Fubllalied Shortly,
“A GOLDEN SHANTY
■ ■
Australian Tales and Sketches in Pro™ and Verse
;Oy ‘Bulletin’ Writers.”
A Selection from the brightest of the original literary matter which has made The Bulletin world-famous. Price, Is. ;if posted, sd. e.v.:a.
f
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON & CO.
Wool Stores: TEXTUAL WHARF; Produce Stores: CIRCULAR QUAY;
4:0 MACQUA.RIB STREET NORTH. SYDNEY


Land at Perth, W.A., the best investment
Plans from Intercolonial Investment Co., Ltd.,
96 Bathurst-street, Sydney.
Everybody should use Pemell’s latest best Snow-white
Patent Roller Flour. It is the greatest success of the age.
—THE
Fresh Food & |ce Go.,
LIMITED,
HARBOUR STREET,
SYDNEY,
Are evidently determined to go ahead. They are
now supplying Customers who take a Quart of
Milk and Over per Day at
THREEPENCE PER QUART!
This appears very wonderful, but it is
quite true.
Weekly Accounts.
WOOXj. wool.
THE HEW ZEALAND
Loan A Mercantile Agency
COMPANY, LIMITED.
BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Capital, £4,500,000 ... Reserve, £270,000
Wool Season, 1888-89*
Regular Sales of Wool Held Throughout the
Season.
THE greatest care bestowed on the Valuation and the
Displaying and Protecting all Wools entrusted to
lue Company for sale, whether from large or small clips.
I®” Growers Advised and Consulted with before Sales
of their Clipis are made.
Liberal Cash Advances, where desired, on Wool lieu
Of Ensuing Clip, and on Wool arid other Produce, whether
lor sale in Sydney or shipment to London.
Auction Sales of Sheep Skins, Marsupia
Skins, Hides, Tallow, Sea., Held Regularly.
Ihwrw Information Supplied on Application.
G. S. CAMPBELL, Manager.
SYDKEY WOOL & GRAIN WAREHOUSEI
Bridge and Loftus Streets.
Business Announcements.
P. C. NICHOZiIiS & Co.,
WHOLESALE
Confectioners & Pastrycooks,
City Buildings:
736 G-eorge Street, 736
HATMAEKET.
Steam Works :
617, 619, 621, 539, 541 HARRIS STREET.
Wedding Cakes, &c., Made to Order.
IjONG’S IMPERIAL HOTEL
TOOWOOMBA, QUEENSLAND.
Acknowledged the Best Hotel on the Darling
Downs. First-class Accommodation.
Private Suites Sirs! Class Sample (looms.
Conveyance Meets Every Train.
JOHN LONG- - - Late of New Zealand.
V p\ I / 7 / ,
'Photogmphic,
\ \VtEWsV#iPOKfRAITS
as:
■p.OYAL HOTEL,
Esplanade,
ST. KILDA. VICTORIA,
Facing Beach, close to Pier and Baths. Ten
min tes from Station.
H. MOONEY .... Proprietor.
LIVERY LETTING STABLES ATTACHED.
Telephone 082.
First-class Accommodation for Visitors
SMOKE NOTHING BUT
PIPES.
f
PIPES.
THE BEST IN THE WOULD.
Wholesale Agents:
JULIUS GOLDSCHMIDT & CO..
231 Clarence Street.
First Prize—MELBOURNE EXHIBITION.
J. LUDOWICI & SONS,
Manufacturers and Importers’ of
Superior Oak-Tanned Leather Belting 1 ,
And every description of
Leather goods for Machine and Engineering Purposes-
Hydraulic
Leathers.
ƒ
f
Tangye Pump
Leathers.
All goods bearing the above Trade Mark are warranted to
give satisfaction, or may be returned at our expense.
Office and Factory: 162 Clarence-St., Sydney,
Between Kino and Market Streets.
"We offer our services as Advertising Experts. "We
can show you how to advertise, how to display, which
are the best media, how to make the most of your
money. Send for our
EVERY MAN TO HIS TRADE
Pamphlet on Ad vertising, and save money, time, worry
and anxiety.—F. T. WIMBLE &Co , Advertising
Contractors, 15 Post Office Chambers, Sydney.
gYDNEY TAKES THE LEAD.
The Sydney Ladies’ and Gentlemen’s
Hairdresssing Palace
AND
TOILETTE *■. EQUI SITES,
82 ISZHWGJ- _
(Directly opposite the Arcade),
N 0 W OPE N.
The Public Verdict- A long-felt want filled,
an Establishment that Sydney can be proud of.
No Expense has been spared in fitting up this
Establishment for the convenience and comfort of
its patrons.
A large staff of the very best Gentlemen Work-
men are employed in the Ladies’ and Gentlemen’s
Hairdressing Rooms, and all work is guaranteed,
A SELECT STOCK OP
Gentlemen’s Mercery, Perfumery*
Ladies'and Gentlemen’s Toilet Requisites.
Cigars, Cigarettes, Tobacco, &c-,
Sold at the Lowest Cash Prices.
LAUNDRY AGENCY, &c., &c.
Sydney and Melbourne Daily and Weekly Papers
kept on File.
All Ladies and Gentlemen are invited to visit
and inspect this establishment, and be convinced
that it is not equalled in the Southern Hemisphere.
HOURS :
From 8.30 a.m, to 7 P.m. SATURDAYS. 9 o.m.
Medical
fX & \
f.
Wh
m
IsV ' f-
uul
V Vi
1*
'• ;V^
L l/VS&fi
'■LJ'.fi
>^z
%
w
&
■*%
Wlanly Purity and Beauty
No tongue nor pen can do justice to the esteem
In which the Cuticuba Remedies are held by the
thousands upon thousands whose lives have been
made happy by the cure of agonizing, humiliating,
itching, scaly and pimply diseases of the skin,
scalp, and blood, with loss of hair.
Cuticuba, the great Skin Cure, and Ctitictjea
Soap, an exquicite Skin Beautifier, prepared from
it, externally, ami Cuticuba Resolvent, the new
Blood Purifier, internally, cure every form of skin
and blood disease, from pimples to scrofula.
Having been a sufferer for two years and a half
from a disease caused by a bruise on the leg, and
having been cured by the Cuticuba Remedies
when all other methods and remedies failed, I
deem it my duty to recommend them. I visited
Hot Springs to no avail, and tried several doctors
without success, and at last our principal druggist,
Mr. John P. Finlay (to whom I shall ever feel
grateful), spoke to me about Cuticuba, and I con-
sented to give them a trial, with the result that I
am perfectly cured. There is now no sore about
me. I think I can show the largest surface where
my sufferings sprang from of any one in the State.
ALEXANDER BEACH, Greenville, Miss.
Sold everywhere. Price, Cuticuba, 50c. ; Soap,
25c.; Resolvent, $l. Prepared by the Potteb
Dbdg and Chemical Co., Boston, Mass.
Send for “How to Cure Skin Diseases,” 64
pages, 50 illustrations, and 100 testimonials.
Plffl
PEES, blackheads, red, rough, chapped and
oily skin prevented by Cuticitra Soap.
If I had known of the Cuticuka Remedies
twenty-eight years ago, it would have saved me
$200.00 (two hundred dollars) and an immense
amount of suffering. My disease (Psoriasis) com-
menced on my head in a spot not larger than a cent.
It spread rapidly all over my body and got under
my nails. The scales would drop off of me all the
time, and my suffering was endless and without
relief. One thousand dollars would not tempt me
to have this disease over again. lam a poor man,
but feel rich to be relieved of what some of the
doctors said was leprosy, some ringworm, pso-
riasis, etc. I took . . . and . . . Sarsaparillas over
one year and a half, but no cure. I went to two or
three doctors, and no cure. I cannot praise the
Cuticuka Remedies too much. They have made
my skin as clear and free from scales as a baby’s
All I used of them was three boxes of Cuticuka,
and three bottles of Cuticuka Resolvent, and
two cakes of Cuticuka Soap. If you had been
here and said you would have cured me for $200.00,
you would have had the money. I looked like the
picture in your book of Psoriasis (picture number
two, “ How to Cure Skin Diseases ”), but now lam
as clear as any person ever was. Through force of
habit I rub my hands over my arms and legs to
scratch once in a while, but to no purpose. I am
all well. I scratched twenty-eight years, and it
got to be a kind of second nature to me. I thank
you a thousand times. Any one who reads this
may write to me and I will answer it.
I) K NATS DOWNING, Waterbury, Vt.
HSNSS
Soft, white, and free from chaps and
redness, by using Cuticpra Soap.
Address: R. TOWNS & CO., SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Business Announcements.
Federated Squatters
-AND—
Farmers’ Co-Operative Association of Australasia, Limited,
CIRCULAR SYZOUSTIE-Z-.
WOOL and PRODUCE BROKERS, STOCK and STATION AGENTS.
Made and Deposits Received at Current Rates. Correspondence Invited.
Ill* 11
Wot
Guinness’ Extra Stout,
FIRST QUALITY.
- N
Pale Ale,
FIRST QUALITY.
Sole Purveyors to the
Colonial & Indian Exhibition, London.
(By Special Appointment.)
wholesale Agents: BalcMn, Johiistoii & Co., Sydney.
M. B. FOSTER & SONS, LONDON,
“ BUGLE ” ALE A-ILsTID STOUT.
)(
PUBLIC NOTICE.
It having come to our knowledge that ALE and STOUT of very inferior quality, in bottles with
skillfully forged labels have lately been palmed ■ ff on the public :
We desire to warn our friends of the fact, and to state that all corks as well as capsules of the
bottles shipped by Messrs. M. B. POSTER & SONS to this colony bear their name and address.
Any information respecting Bottled Beer purporting to be “Poster’s Bcqlk Brand” offered
for sale without these corks and capsules will be esteemed by the undersigned, who have instruc-
tions to bring to justice the perpetrate rs of the frauds.
A Liberal Reward will be given for information leading to conviction of the offenders.
)(
BA.LCHI3XT, JOECUSTOW «Sr CO., Sydney,
Agents fob Messrs. M. B. Poster & Sons.
Alble for Kupper’s ElborfeldL Lager Beer
(Specially Brewed for Australia). Absolutely Free from Sediment.
THOMAS M'CR EERY:
MEDICAL HERBALIST,
83 Oxford Street, i doors above Riley Street.
Private Diseases of Both Sexes a Speciality.
Consultations Gratis. Charges very Moderate.
A Trial Solicited.
A SPEEDY CURE GUARANTEED.
RICHMOND FAMILY HOTEL,
PORTLAND, VICTORIA.
John Shelton - Proprietor
Gubernatorial Gurglings.
ACROSTICALLY ACCENTUATED.
I.—NEW SOUTH WALES.
C onstantly yawning o’er my daily toil
A nd wishing I could do my work by proxy
(R idiculous it seems for lords to moil,
R eally I count it dreadful heterodoxy)—
I yet can look content, and always say
N ice pleasant things to plutocrat or pauper,
G ive condolence, and sometimes cash, away
T anning my skin ’gainst Sydney’s social torpor.
O ! (pray excuse this yawn) Heav’n speed the day,
N ot very distant, which shall end my stay.
II.—VICTORIA.
H ere am I sent, the Lord knows how or why,
O ’er great Snobocracy to reign as king ;
P retty of face, if bare of lip, am I,
E ndowed with money and that sort of thing ;
T o hunt, and fish, and shoot I know the way,
O n social functions I have lavish’d cash ;
' U ntried and so unprejudiced.” men say,
N or further dare to hint the Queen’s choice
rash.
III.—QUEENSLAND.
N ot even a Baron am I,
O nly a General Officer,
R ich record of duty 7 don’t make
M e welcome as noble novice here,
A lord is alone held as laudable,
N o Commoner’s claim is now audible. .
IV.—SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
K ilted and Conservative to be,
I trow, commends to Salisbury and “ Vic.,”
N o call for other virtues has rich peer
T o win a place, or in a place to stick ;
O f brains or character why take aught heed ?
(R oyal or vice-royal potentates none need),
E nough if they have hands for snobs to lick.
V.—WEST AUSTRALIA.
R eft of Victoria’s screw and the mansion
0 n which I had set my sad heart, '
B aek to Perth like a convict to travel
1 soon disappointedly start.
V ot a Gov. can make speeches like I can
(S inker orators ne’er have I known),
O Lord !—I mean Hopetoun—why am I
N eath the wheels of thy State-carriage thrown ?
VI.—NEW ZEALAND.
O nee used for party politics was I,
N ow, played-out for such rdle, I hither came,
S even thousand pounds a year, society
L ies at my feet, proud of an Earl’s proud name,
O n Slow is quick on such a chance to seize
When English founts of patronage ’gin freeze.
VII.—TASMANIA.
H auled from an Irish post of profit by
A party chief, and, when comments grew hot
M ade glad on Derwent’s banks ’neath Tasman’s
sky
I ch grolle nicht, nor would exchange my lot ;
L eaving two thousand pounds a year, now I
T ake five, save money—there’s nought else
to do—
O f local growlings have no heed ; for why
N eed I teach habits bad by squandering screw ?
C. R. W.


kt READ THIS ! Two Pounds’ (£2) worth of these preparations sent free to any part of the colony.
rmstrong’s Citron Saline, for cooling- and purifying the
blood. An apenenteffervescing salt. 2s;lBsdoz.
Armstrong’s Blood Purifier or Anti-Scorbutic—a valuable
remedy where the blood has become vitiated through
residence' in hot climates, with usual consequences of
bad water, deficient vegetable diet. 2s; 18s doz.
Armstrong’s Compound Sarsaparilla with Dandelion, lodide
of Potash, &c., for allimpuritiesof theblood. 2s; 20sdoz..
Armstrong’s Eye Lotion for Blight and other inflammatory
a flections of the eyes. The proprietor has received
numerous testimonials for cures effected by this lotion
when all other means had failed. Is ; 8s doz.
Armstrong’s Sugar-coated Anti-bilious Pills. An infallible
remedy in cases of indigestion and other complaints
arising from an inactive liver. Is; 8s doz.
Armstrong’s Diarrhoea Mixtures gives instant relief in this
troublesome complaint. 2s; 18s doz.
Armstrong’s Gout and Rheumatic Mixture. For gout,
rheumatism, sciatica, &c., &c. 3s fid; 36s doz.
Armstrong’s Cough Elixir. An immediate cure for colds,
coughs, influenza, &c. 2s; 18s doz.
Armstrong’s Podopbyllin Pills, for liver complaints, im-
purities of the blood, &c. Is; 8s doz.
Armstrong’s Phosphorous Pills, for Nervous and General
Debility, &c. Is; Bsdoz.
Armstrong’s Anodyne Liniment (or Pain Paint) for bruises,
sprains, rheumatic pains, &c. 2s; 18s doz.
Armstrong’s Cough Balsam, for chronic pulmonary affec-
tions and lung diseases. 2s; 18s doz.
Armstrong’s Golden Eye Ointment, for blight and all
diseases of the eyes. Is Cd; 13s doz.
Armstrong’s celebrated Ointment for Piles. 2s;
18s doz.
Anustrong’s Iron and Quinine Tonic, for loss of appetite,
Nervousness, General Debility, Neuralgia, &o. 2s.
Armstrong’s 156 Mixture for discharges. 3s 6d.
Armstrong’s Pepsine Bismuth and Nux Vomica, for
chronic indigestion. 3s 6d &ss6d ; 30s & 58s doz.
Armstrong’s Quinine Wine. A most reliable brain and
nerve tonic. 2s 6d; 20s doz.
Armstrong’s Podophyllin Seidlitz Powders. A mild and
pleasant aperient. Is (id; 15s doz.
Armstrong’s “Ar abian Ointment.” For healing all sores,
old wounds, burns, etc. (in pots). Is; 8s doz. _
Armstrong’s Coi-n Paint and Solvent, for painlessly
removing corns, bunions, warts, &c. Is; 8s doz.
Armstrong’s Toothache Drops and Carbolic Nervine, for
immediate cure of toothache. Is; 8s doz.
Armstrong’s Resin, Carbolic, Zinc, Blue, White and Red
Percipitate Ointments (in boxes). 6d ;5s doz.
Armstrong’s Dandruff Pomade, for eradicating scurf, dan-
druff, &0., from the hair. Is ; 8s doz.
Armstrong’s Arabian Hair Renewer, for restoring grey
hair to its natural colour. Is 6d; 12s doz.
Armstrong’s Arabian Insect Powder. 9d ; 6s doz.
Armstrong’s Indelible Ink, for writing on linen, silk, and
muslin. Is; 8s per doz. . . ~
Armstrong’s Lime Juice and Glycerine. A va.viable
preparation for the hair. Is &2s; 8s & 18s doz.
Armstrong’s Transparent Cement (Oohesuhne) for china,
glass, wood, leather, &c. 6d &Is ; 5s &8s doz.
Armstrong’s Carbolic Tooth Powder antiseptic. Is, 8s ( oz.
Armstrong’s Disinfectant, Carbolised Powder (in tins),
for drains, etc. 9d &Is6d; Os 6d & 12s doz.
Armstrong’s Sore Back Ointment forhorses. 2s; &1' - ' loz.
Armstrong’s Carbolic Dressing, for cuts and wvuuds
among stock. Is &Is6d ; 8s & 15s doz.
Armstrong’s Blistering Ointment the best r<nm-\ tor
splints, curbs, etc. Is 6d ; 13s doz.
Armstrong’s Worm and Condition Powders, for horses
(in tins). 6d &Is ; 5s &Ss doz.
Armstrong’s Gold Paint, Copper, Silver and Green Bronzes,
for decorating your home ornaments, statuary, &c.
all ready mixed. 6d;, 8s doz.
INVENTED, MANUFACTURED and SOLD ONLY by H. C. ARMSTRONG, George Street NORTH (Near Circular Quay), SYDNEY.
Trusses, Belts, Supports, Elastic Stockings, Knee Caps, etc., at English Wholesale Cost. The lMr^ r^ ck
FOR DRUGS, CHEMICALS, PATENT MEDICINES and DRUGGISTS’ SUNDRIES, SEND FOR SPECIAL PRICE LI. ( ■> ■ .
Public Companies.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA.
THE COMING COLONY!
Everyone should Invest a Few Pounds in Land
in - ,
PERTH,
The ( A. ITAL CITY OF WESTERN AUSTRALIA.
Compared with other Australian Cities the Price
is Very Low.
The Coal, Gold and Tin Mines are attracting
much enterprise and capital to the Colony.
CITY BUILDING ALLOTMENTS,
From £1 per Foot.
BUILDING SITES adjoining the CITY
From £lO Each.
Small Deposit. Ea-y Terms. Discount for Cash.
E:ich Lot guaranteed good Building Land.
Land in Perth will increase greatly in value during
the next few years.
INQUIRY COSTS NOTHING.
Pamphlets, Marked Plans and full information
po ted to any address on application to
Tho Intercolonial Wmt Co,, Limitel
")6 Bathurst Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
W. J. DOUGLAS, Manager.
—THE—
FEDERAL REVERSIONARY INVESTMENT
AND
FINANCIAL COMPANY. LIMITED.
( Incorijorated Under Companies’ Act, 187 U
CAPITAL .. .. ±200,000.
Sydney Office: ... 301 PITT STREET
\ (;ENCIES in London and throughout Australia.
- » Immediate advances granted. Hills discounted dai.y.
Communications from the country promptly attended to.
The f ollowing are the rates of interest allowed on Fixed
Deposits:—3 years, 10 percent. ; 12 months, 9 per cent. ;
0 months, 8 per cent. ; 3 months, 7 per cent. By order
of t:ie Board of Directors.
A. W. Miller, Manager
=CLYDE=
SM.LTING, am and CHLORINAT OH
WORKS,
CLYDE, near GRANVILLE,
New South Wales.
Lead and Silver Ores,
GS-old Concentrates,
Purchased in any quantity.
Miners and others are invited to send Small or
Large Parcels of Ore to the above Works, which,
on being assayed, Cash Returns will be at once
remitted.
Tariff of Charges forwarded on application to
the Secretary at the Works, Clyde.
The British and New South Wale# Investment
and Financial t 0., Limited.
Incorporated under the Companies’ Act, 1874.
Capital, £250,000.
Sydney Office : 246 PITT STREET.
BILES DISCOUNTED and Immediate Advaiicfes granted
Daily. Country communications promptly at tended
to. The following It ate# of Interest are allowed for Fixed
Deposits V
With a Guaranteed Domes on Renewals of Twelve Months
and over.
Dv onh r of the Hoard.
W. MTOVAMt. Manager.
ALSO,
3 Years
12 Months
6 Months
3 Months
10 per cent.
9 per cent,
s per cent.
7 per cent.
Business Announcements.
—THE-
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL
FIRE
Insurance Society.
Established ... ... 1872.
Bo3a-u.ses
OF
20 per cent. Paid Annually
since 1873,
uni! —s.y.r;n]
SI
111
Head Office
—THE
Oldest Mutual Fire Office
in Australia.
Claims promptly and liberally
settled. ee ... da--s’ grace
allowed for Renewal of Policies.
Lowest Current Rates charged.
Hon. Geirryr Thornton, M.L.C.,
( hairman.
Hkad Office;
Corner Pitt Sc King Streets,
SYDNEY.
Walter Church .. Manager.
OSERTS
D
Nu
□
&
HANTS
a
..
T ; 1
' '
y
y
■s
-
a
1-3
dP
C 3
r=i P i
ML
gg
f-J
7^l
i'r
...
m
ROBERTS & CO.,
—W HOLESALE—
Ironmongers* Importers* Iron and Machinery Merchants*
HAY and ENGINE STREETS SYDNEY,
Head Office: 85 Gracechurch Street, London, JB.C.
IMPORTERS OF
Railway & Bridge Contractors’
Plumbers’
Squatters'
Require i ents
[N
Great Variety.
IMPORTERS OF
Engineers' and Blacksmiths’
Couchbuilders'
Mining
AGENTS FOR:
TTAft<n<r>a r-ia lTn<Hiw>4 The best and cheapest vet made. Automatic self-governing, thus saving cost of gas.
WatSSd gL Lamps. ‘ Ending Iron (Split) Pulley Wheels.
Howe’s Platform and Counter Weighing Machines and W ti^lihndges.
THE
P L U SVi ”
RAZOR.
THBpj
•JIO/YSI
.< iai m d „
am
WE recommend gentlemen who shave
Hollow <1 round and NEVKR re«
(hire
AZOR. It is
(irinding and we guarantee each Razor for two
years. Set ready for use. Price single . -azor, 10s. (id. : or a pair of Razorsßlack Handles in
y trung Leather Case, £1 Is. In Ivory, single Razor, Ids. I air in cast, 30s. Send 1.0.0. Lvery
Razor sent by Registered Post.
CRAIG & AITKEN,
“ POTOSI ” HAIRDRESSING SALOON,
680 G-IEOIBLGrE STREET SYLITE
THOMAS ROSS,
TOBACCO 4. CIGAR IMPORTER,
27 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY,
(Cnnier 11/ I’M Street.)
A Iftiyf stocK 'it iJcnniiti' (In >ll it sill 4 'Sunni, of ili<
choicest I tram Is to s l.'. i fnmi.
Sole Importer of the < clchniled " IT or «Je Sfoiiiio
i.f t'iifjn* iinil l,:u|il
DA-KT. SULLIVAN-
(Late of Brisbane Caf6),
Has Itought MATTERSON’S HOTEL, opposite
Lassetters, < teorge-streot.
Extensive alterations and improvements just
completed. Recollect .DAN’S OLD REPUTA-
TION for tin- Lest brands in the market.
DA3T. SULLIVA.'J
i nice oold collation with salad, between one
and two o'clock eve:y lay.
Medical.
PULVEEMACHER’S WOEID-
FAMED GALVANIC LELT3
FOR THE CURE OF
Nervous Exhaustion and Debility, Sciatica,
Lumbago, Rheumatism, &c.,
HAVE received Testimonials from Three
Physicians to Her Majesty the and
the Leading Physicians of many London Hospi-
tals, including over Forty Members of the Royal
College of Physicians of London.
For full Price-list and particulars, see new pam-
phlet “Galvanism; Nature’s Chief Restorer of
Impaired Vital Energy.” Pamphlets Free.
Sole Agents for N.S.W.,
FROST <3c SHIPHAM
ELECTRICIANS,
474 & 587 George Street, Sydney.
Sole Agents for Victoria:
ALLISON BROS., 477 Collins-street West, Melbourne.
171 REE BY POST for six penny Stamps, a
j Medical Treatise by that eminent French
Hospital Physician and Parisian Specialist, Dr.
UABONSKI, showing sutierers li w they may
cure themselvesof Nervous Debility, Lt st V itaiity,
&c., &c., without consulting a medical man.
Address: “Parisian,” P.O. Box 70(5, Sydney.
pSt A SLESSINO IN EVERY FAMILY,
y OLLOWAY'S FILLS AND OINTMENT.
OL There is not a country in the civilised world wuere
the healing virtues of thes grand medicines have not been
recognised by thousands of sufferers. In all the ordinary
ailments of humanity their beneficent action is at once
recognised. -Fullest directions are supplied for (heir use
m every disease. IF YOU SUFFER, iHA THEM. Manu-
I ictured only at 76 New Oxkokd-st., London. JD" I'ur-
,lasers should look to the Label on the Boxes and Pots.
If the address is not 528 Oxford-street, London, they are
spurious.
Business Announcements.
AUSTRALIAN —
Roller Flour and Grain Stored,
GRANVILLE, N.S.W.
Sydney Office; - 173 CLARENCE S'IKEET
(near King Street).
Bmnton’s Patent Roller Flour
- AWARDED —
The Highest Order of Merit at every Competition,
AND
‘‘Special Recommendation" of the Jurors of the
Melbourne International Centennial Exhibition,
imßßi :llas
I CC*CC3VER£O.
l TDD Y ECONO -M Y
k a> d
Have your t nibrella Endues
Re-Covered, and your
Parasols Re-Lined and made
E.,ual to New, at
J . sulliv;* vs,
541 George Street,
Bhickki kld Hill, Svdkky,
bet iree.it
I iveri>ool Bathurst Sts .
Parasols made to match Cos-
tumes. Repairs neatly done.
Sydney Canister Works,
COLLINS STREET, SURRY HILLS,
OFF CROWN STREET.
Manufacturers of allk nds l IT ins for Confectioners)
Tea Merchants, Biscuit Makers, &c., also all kinds
of Tins, round and square, for Pepper, Spice and
Baking Powder, made by improved mach.nery.
A. Trial Solicited..
MUSICAL.
DATENT SCALE INDICATOR for Pupils Learning the
X Piano . p r ice, 3s. 6d. And IMPROVED VAMPING
SYSTEM, without a knowledge of Music, ss. 6d., posted
to the country from Ingham’s, Sydney Arcade.
Country Agents wanted—Stationers.
EMPIRE BUILDINGS,
Collins Street West, MELBOURNE
(■Near Scott's Hotel).
WE beg to inform our Friends and the
Public that we have Opened these
Grand Premises as an
OYSTER SALOON
AND
Continental Dining Rooms.
PRIVATE DINNERS provided on Shortest Notice.
- Moderate ( ii.uieKs
BI3XTI & KATZ,
PROPRIETORS.


Mod’cal.
; MEN.
V
EUREKA
\S
ELECTRIC BEL
\
H
4
7\ih' ]
iNr
■i
/>v\
A jfjnrss FAILING CUBE FOR ALL.
Diseases of the nervous systeli.
Complete with Suspensory Appliances from £l. 0. 0 and
upwards. Tin's famous Electric Magnetic Belt will cure
NEiCVOUS DEBILITY. Seminal Debility, Impotence,
and all weakness caused by indiscretion. Tains in the
Back. Lumbago, Giddiness, Rheumatism, Kidney and
Bladder complaints, and in fact any disease of the Nervous
System. The currents are steady and constantly felt by
the wearer. It his great improvements over all other
belts, we are willing to furnish those belts on 30 days
trial, and accept payment after they have proved them-
selves what we represent them to be. Those belts are
ma le for the specific purpose of producing a continuous,
mild, soothing current of electricity through all the weak-
ened parts, restoring them to health and vigorous strength,
even the worst case permanently cured in three months.
It is more convenient to wear than any other Belt.
A Book illustrated} containing full information and testi-
monials from prominent peonle throughout Australia,
and informing persons how they may obtain these belts
without paying for them until they have proved them com-
petent to cure any disease of the Nervous System, will be
forwarded to any address on receipt of "a 2d stamp far
postage. *
AddressVOl/TAIC BELT COBTFANY
Box 916, G. P. 0., Svdnkv.
Dr. Janies D. Llewellyn,
L.R.C.!'.. M.R.0.5., R.S.A., LOND.,
•Registered by the .Medical Boards of Victoria, New South
Wales and England,
SPECIALIST
—IN —
Chronic, Nervous and ffenito-Urinary Diseases,
may be consulted daily at
—3 25 LONSDALE STREET—
(between Swanston & Elizabeth Sts
MELBOURNE.
Confidence Absolute. Curable Cases Guaranteed.
All Personal Consultations are free ; but by
Letter, a Fee of £1 is charged, which is inclusive
of medicines. Patients living at a distance and
unable to attend personally can be treated by post,
and have their remedies forwarded per mail or
express to any part of Australia, carefully packed
and concealed from observation.
A Practical Manual on Special Diseases,
expressly written for the guidance of sufferers from
“Nervous Debility” and Private Diseases—price,
3s. 6d. (post paid.) Copies may be obtained from
the Publishers, “ The Otto Publishing C 0.,” No. 4
A’Beckett-street, Melbourne, and all Booksellers.
A Wonderful Discovery.
Eose’s Celebrated Eye Lotion.
THIS valuable Lotion is guaranteed to cure SWELLING
- 1 - and SANDY BLIGHT, INFLAMED EYES and LIDS,
DIMNESS OP SIGHT, &o. It will be found very bene-
ficial and cooling to those who have weak eyes, or whose
work compels them to strain their eyes. Highly
recommended by the leading Oculists.
(**s ss + 1 T ■^ ie Public are requested to notice the
WCI U. ulUi.l ! words, Rose s Celebrated Eye
lotion, with the Trade Mark (a, Rose) on Dark Blue
Ground, is on the label affixed to each box containing the
Lotion, without which it is a forgery.
Hose's Celebrated Eye Lotion,
Not for ROSE EYE LOTION,
as you will get a Lotion composed of Rose Water palmed
off on you for the genuine article, thus misleading the
purchaser for the sake of the vendor’s extra profit.
Manufactured only by the Proprietor,
Hl. A. HOSE!
dispensing and Manufacturing Chemist,
531 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Wholesale by the Proprietor and ail Wholesale Houses.
Kstablishfi 7 ISbS. By Pont Ss. 6d.
I&'" Manufacturer of Dr. SOUTHAN’S GOUT and
RHEUMATIC PILLS.
E R V O U S DEBILITY.
Consult KIIK.FI, per SONATA*, or II v post HERR RASS-
MCSSgN, the celebrated DANISH HERBALIST and
EXPERT SPECIALIST. A medical book sent free on
receipt of a -Id., stainivd self-addressed envelope, contain
ing valuable aint*;. Try Hkrr Kass-Musskn’s Pills, which
an a guaranteed cure. Price, .£1 2s. (id. per course. Sent
unobserved, An ultras
Harr Kaso-Muasen, “Roselund Villa,"
Opposite Rifle Butts,
MOORE PARK ROAD, SYDNEY.
jmotrs injection..
HvoiENIO, INFALLIBLE & PRESERVATIVE.
Curea promptly without additional means, all
recent »-r chronic discharges Of the urinary organs.
Sold in Paris by
J. DE 1 3ES X*. 3=*. 3ES,
(Successor to Brou) BhAmiacist, 102 rue Riohelien.
Agent In Sydney:
E. DOUBLET, 165 CLARENCE STREET.
WHY NOT CONSULT
Dr. de spencer,
SPECIALIST A ACCOUCHEUR.
Caeca of a Private and Confidential Nature in both Sexes
effectually cured.
Hours of Consultation:
q to It a.m,: 2to 4 and 7 till 9 p.m.
84 Victoria Park T'lrr&ce. flaw town Hoad
oppose ■aiversiryX
te. Y lj IXf JES TBT
Medical.
A WONDERFUL MEDICINE.
Beecham’s Pills
m4>
PATENT
m
PILLS
sfl
&
Are universally admitted
to be worth a Guinea
a Box for bilious
and nervous disorders,
such as wind and pain in
the stomach, sick, head-
ache, giddiness, fulness
and swelling after meals,
dizziness, and drowsiness,
cold chills, flushings of
heat, loss of appetite,
shortness' of breath, cos-
tiveness, scurvy, blotches
on the skin, disturbed
sleep, frightful dreams,
and all nervous and trem-
bling sensations, &c. The.
first dose will give relief
in twenty minutes. Every
sufferer is earnestly invited to try one box of these
Pills, and they will be acknowledged to be
Worth a Guinea a Box.
For females of all ages these Pills are invaluable,
as a few doses of them carry off all humors, and
bring about all that is required. No female should
he without them. There is no medicine to be found
equal to BEeGh.AM’S PILLS for removing any
obstruction or irregularity of the system. If taken ac-
cording to the directions given with each box they will
soon restore females of all ages to sound and robust
health. This has been proved by thousands who have
tried them, and found the benefits which are ensured by
their use.
For a weak stomach, impaired digestion and all disorders
of the liver, they act like “ MAGIC,” and a few doses will
be found to work wonders upon the most important
organs in the human machine. They strengthen the
whole muscular system, restore the long-lost complexion,
bring back the keen edge of appetite, and arouse into ac-
tion with the ROSEBUD of health the whole physical
energy of the human frame. These are “FACTS” testified
continually by members of all classes of society ; and
one of the best guarantees to the nervous and debilitated
is, Beecham’s Pills have the largest sale of any patent
medicine in the world.
Beecham’s Magic Cough Pills.
As a remedy for Coughs in general, Asthma, Bronchial
Affections, Hoarseness, Shortness of Breath, Tightness
and Oppression of the Chest, Wheezing, &c., these Pills
stand unrivalled. The> are the best ever offered to the
public and * ill speed Ty remove that sense of oppression
and difficulty of breathing which nightly deprive the
patient of rest. Let any person give Bkboham’s Cough
Pills a trial and the most violent Cough will in a
short time be removed.
Prepared only and sold wholesale and retail by the pro-
prietor, Thomas Beecham, Chemist, St. Helens, Lancashire,
England, in boxes at Is. ijd. and 2s. 9d. each. —Sold by
all Druggists and Patent Medicine Dealers everywhere.
N.B.—Full directions are given with each box.
Prof. R. T. SELBY
Is considered to be the most Successful Practi-
tioner in the Australian colonies. All sufferers
should read the Doctor’s most unique work on
Nervous, Private and other Diseases. The*
Advice on Marriage is worth its weight in gold.
Send your full address, and we will send (post
free) One Copy. Write to Prof. R. T. SELBY,
Cleveland Street, Surry Hill, SYDNEY.
CONSULT
M
CORE & rlOGG
B
THS SMIHKNT
SPECIALISTS,
On all Diseases cTTthe Benito-Urinary Organs
Nervous Diseases, and Private Complaints,
1, CORBETT8 BUILDINGS, •onur Qf Otorgt
and Elitabeth StrteU, Brisbane.
CONSULTATIONS SRSE, PERSONALLY OR BY LETTSR.
Box 88 G.P.O.) Boofc sent on receipt of id. stamp.
Hotel*.
ret
M 2
ENS
o*l2
owdcns MHhvcfm
;t" -
BOIArX33E33XT’g» HCOTSt.,
Elizabeth Stbbet (Near IIOTfIBR St.), Sydney
JOHN C. BOW HEN .. „ Proprietor
HOTEL,
Warrnambool, Victoria.
THIS old-established and well-known Family
and Commercial Hotel combines all the
requirements of a Fihst-Class Hotkl with home
comforts.
It is in full view of the sea and within a short
distance of the picturesque scenery of the Hopkin’a
River, which affords the finest Rod and Fly Fishing
in the colony.
Arrangements made for the Hire of Rowing and
Fishing Boats and Fishing Tackle. Bait, etc.,
supplied. KST Good Shooting in the immediate
neighbourhood.
It is also within Two Minutes’ walk of the Hot
and Cold Sea Water Baths, which are unsur-
passed in the colonies.
JA-” l.lvery uiul Stables
Bo >kuig Office for Cobh & Co.'* noaonea.
Oouk it Sons’ Hotel Coupons taken
OEOE3E W CLaBE Propriety-
sines* Announce mentis
HE BANK OF NEW ZEALAND.
64 PITT STREET, and 588 GEORGE STREET.
Paid-up Capital £1,125,000
The Bank has Agents in all the principal cities
throughout the United States of America and
Canada, and can offer special facilities for dealing
in Bullion, Bills of Exchange. Commercial and
Travellers’ Letters of Credit.
Drafts issued and Bills collected on most favour-
able terms, at rates which can be ascertained on
application.
Sydney Branches;
N. F. GIBLIN, Manager.
3Fl.essi.c3lL ! SFg.'SEtcl. ! Head !
“THE BULLETIN’S ”
History of Botany Bay,
By Arthur Bay 11.
Profusely Illustrated by The Bulletin’s well-
known Artists,
L. HOPKINS and PHIL MAY.
Hrice - Oxte Slillling
Per post, Is. 3d.
Wholesale Agents :
Victoria: A. Benjamin, 321 Little Collins-st., Melbourne
Melbourne : Gordon & Gotch.
Brisbane; J. H. Thompson, Bookseller, George-street.
Adelaide : N'evil! a & Co.
Tasmanian; Fitzgerald Bros., George-street, Launceston.
EPPS’S
GRATEFUL—COMFORTING
COCOA.
A
21
m.
MANUFACTURERS
* IMPORTERS Of
HATS CAPS At
I »
448 CEORCE S r
3YDNEY %
0/yvosiCe LeuscC&rs
Branch :
678 GEORGE STREET,
BRICKFIELD HILL,
(Next to Craig and Aitken.)
/p
A
MANUFACTURING HATTERS
GEORGE STREET
SYDNEY '
IMPORTERS OF ALL THE
NEWESTSHAPES.
And at ALBERT STREET, BRISBANE.
(
s m
' irV. - ' I
• '£ I
• M ■ r:*
,■& ■ - r- *
0*
ƒ
ACTURtD OY C
MM£S CWN/VO* Jfart.mrrS' A fjjV
iU(v aW A.ofUi f .:/rr**r»firry ,-;'£&.
Business Announcements.
■J3HE TIIS.ES GREAT LIGHTS!
The Needles Patent Gas-making Machine;
The Harvey Patent Safety Kerosene Lamp;
■ AN!' TIIX
New Era Portable Gas Lamp.
The Harvey Lamp has been adopted by the
Railway Commissioners for lighting the Sydney
trams. We were awarded the Highest Order of
Merit and Special Mention by experts at the
late Melbourne Exhibition for our lighting
mediums. Over 6000 Harvey Lamps are in use
in this colony, and for all lighting purposes are
giving universal satisfaction. These Lamps can
be seen on one of the North Shore ferry-boats,
and are suitable for all classes of vessels. The
Inventor offers £2OO to anyone producing as good
a Kerosene Burner.
Patentees for Australasia:
T. S BRITISH: «Ss 00.,
494 Kent Street Sonth, WYOXEY 5
14 Arcade, Adelaide, S.A.; Argent Street, Broken Hiu. ;
Parkside Iron Works, Melbourne.
Send for Prim * ?et Circular!
AUIIMATIC
“NO TENSION” SEWING MACHINE.
NOISELESS-LIGHTEST
Most Beautiful and Durable Work,
AND DOES NOT INJURE HEALTH.
ALSO FOR
Beehives and Supplies, Incubators arid Brooders,
Patent Extending Trellis, Stoves for Wood, -CoaJ|
Gas or Oil, Mangles and Washing Machines.
Carpet Sweepers, Preserving Jars, Ice Chests and
Refrigerators, American Egg Cases with Portable
Fillers.
HEBBLEWHITE «Sc CIO.,
416 GEORGE STREET, SYDT EY.
[Mention this paper.]
> —THE—
SYDNEY SOAP & CANDLE CO.,
Limited,
MANUFACTURERS OF
Stearine and Paraffin Candles,
HOT 4, COLD WATER SOAP
Of every Description
Glycerine, Lubricating, Machine, Cloth and
Meatsfoot Oils.
The only Genuine and Original
Magic Cleanser Cold Water Soap.
To be had at all Grocers and Storekeepers.
Upfold’s Tree Pest Exterminator,
Its Effects are Marvellous!
"What m Bomb without a Ptcrrat?”
Xi. BERITASCOHI,
(Late R. Smith)
Elite Carver, G-ilder, and Picture Frame Maker,
159 Clarence Street Only, SYDNEY
(near Central Coffee Palace).
Plush Work a Speciality. Mounts Cut to any Design.
H. HILDER.
JBOOT UPPER MANUFACTURER
IMPORTER OP
ENGLISH AND FOREIGN LEATHER,
Elastic Web, tiTindery, Ac„
Wholesale and Retail Leather Merchant
589 GEORGE STREET. SYDNEY.
GROTH
, FOR
PAPERHANG'NGSJ
PiisSdLOMßsjt Paiats
WALL PAPERS Fro^roll
PAI
529 George Si> t BathurstSt
- Brickfield Hill . -
WALTER HO IP lE,
General Merchant A Commission Agent,
199 SUSSEX STREET, SYDNEY.
CONSIGNMENTS of all Product?, Live Stock, etc,,
/ received and realised in the beat markets. Account
Sales and Proceeds remitted the day after sale. Order*
executed for all Goods from Sydney at Lowest Wholesale
Prices
Speciality.— Pure-bred and Pedigree Stock of all de-
scriptions Bobotit or Sold on Commission. All communi-
cations referring to Pure-bred Poultry and Eggs for Setting
to be addressed as usual to WALTER HOPE, Bonnyrigg
Prize Poultry Farm, Liverpool, N.S.W.
o FECIAL NOTICE.—The Sydney Bulletin.
kt Tasmanian Edition Publisher*, FITZ
GERALD BROS. Subscription (payable strictly
in atiTon-e), Six Shillings and Sixpence per quar
tor, or One Pound per annum.
The Bulletin will bo on Sale every Friday at
(he Oflioe, George Street, Launceston, or from the
Runners in the st reet.
T> BINGE OF WALES’ HOTEL
I near Opera Rouse, Bonrko-sfc.. East. Melbourne
This welt Known Sporting House is conduct*.
In First-class Styl*. Evcrr ccr.vcr.ience Central!*
situ tprt


SHEVILL & CO,,
Corner- Queen Street and Flinders Lane,
MELBOURNE.
MERCANTILE AUCTIONEERS,
House, Land, and Estate Agents,
2*311
5S
i
v
m
4i
Advances made against shipments of Merchandise
-and Colonial Produce.
Daily Sales held at their Commodious
New Rooms.
OUTDO O E,
Furniture <& Land Sales Conducted.
Bkaxoh
Oftiom
f 32 Chapel St., Prahran. 'i
\ 8 Albert St., Windsor. /
Branch
Officm
JL .« J Hit in ;>
IMPORTER OE
■W lUES, x S IE 3 1181 T S 7 x IB IE IB IB S, x ETC.,
George and Gipps Streets, Sydney.
SPECIALITIES:
John Jameson’s Dublin Whisky (5 to 10 years old) ; W. Jameson’s, Dunville’s Rob’s and Wise’s (old Cork) WhiaUw.
Hennessy’s, Martell’S and Sazerac’s Brandies (5, 10, 15 and 21 years old).
The Choicest and Oldest SCOTCH WHISKIES (in wood), Imported and Bottled by P.R.L.
XSf" The Best Port and Sherry Wines and Champagnes. |y* All Brands of Colonial Wines. The leading brands
of Bottled Ale and Stodt, arriving by monthly steamers.
Prince of Wales Hotel, 778 & 780 George Street.
s£sjlesale aiut Single Bottle Departments, V-N.l anil Sydney.
SEND FOR A PRICE LIST.
FIRST-CLASS LADIES’.REFRESHMMT ROOM & LAVATORY,
GIPPS ' TREET (Opposite A. Hordern & Sons.)
)x (
Produce Stores, Gipps St., and Darling hurst Road.
HEAD OFFICE: GIPPS STREET (Next Prince of Wales Hotel).
BROS.’
Q
XT
fr
2NTES-W
FURNITURE
WAREHOUSES,
Zork Street, Wynyard Square, Sydney,
Now supply the General Public as well as the Trade.
10,000 Bedsteads,
From lOb. 6cL. to £35.
BAVLE E & C 0
CTtONEERS* ESTATE ACENTS
BATLEE & CO.,
General Auctioneers and Estate Agents,
335 Collins Street, Melbourne, and 14 Chapel
Street, South Yarra.
Free Fresoriptionß
Are to be found in the “ Light and Life,’
for the Speedy Cure of Nervous Debility and
Kindred Diseases, &o. A copy of this book will
be sent Free, sealed, for Six Penny Stamps.
Address —
S. WARD Si CO., SYDNEY PHARMACY,
76 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
f
COCOA
FRY
MASON BROTHERS,
ƒ
LIMITED.
263 to 269 KENT STREET,
SYDNEY,
Have always in Stock for Sale to the
Trade arid Wholesale Buyer* Only,
ironmongery, and
GENERAL HARDWARE
Glass, 4'liina anti
EARTHENWARE.
WINES, BEERS X SPIRITS,
AND GENERAL
BULK MERCHANDISE.
Agents for
<) H N WALKER and SONS
Old Highland Whisky.
J. SORIN and CO.’S
Cognat!.
J. T. GAYEN’S,
Schnapps and Geneva.
A. MELVIN and SONS’
Edinburgh Pale Ale.
SMITH, XJ.S.A..,
MEDICAL EXPERT-
In PRIVATE COMPLAINTS of BOTH SEXES.
A Prompt and Safe Cure Guaranteed.
CONSULTING ROOMS;
Nos. 7 & 8 First Floor, 482 GEORGE STREET,
SYDNEY.
Hours j ... Prom 11 a.m. till 4 p.m.
Imperial Hot e l,
TOWNSVILLE.
!:)■
THOMAS WALLACE,
Proprietor.
S.
7)
For
AIR
ROWLANDS’
MACASSAR OIL.
Used for 100 years. Prevents and Arrests Baldness,
strengthens the Hair and pr duces a luxuriant and glossy
growth ; also prepared in a Holden Colour.
ROWLANDS’
ODONTO.
A pure, non-gritty Tooth Powder. It whitens the
Teeth, prevents decay, gives fragrance to the breath.
ROWLANDS'
KALYDOR.
A harmless emollient milk for beautifying the com-
plexion. Removes Freckles, Tan, Sunburn, Roughness
and Redness, and produces soft, fair and delicate skin.
ROWLANDS’ ESSENCE OF TYRE
Grey Hair a permanent Brown or Black; Ask Chemists and Perfumers for ROWLANDS’
Articles, of 20, Hatton Garden, London, England, and avoid imitations.
Hay St., Hay market, Sydney,
ENGINES,
2 to 50 h.p.
BOILERS,
1 to 35 H.P.
STEAM PUMPS
For all purposes.
CENTRAL PUMPS,
2" to 40" discharge.
HAND PUMPS.
Saw Benches.
Ihatließ.
DM MACHINES,
&c>, <ko.
n
m
WINDING ENGINES.
Hauling Engines.
Battery Engines.
Saw-mill Engines,
HOOK-MILL ENGINES,
ENGINES
KOR
Electric Lighting,
j Vertical Boilers.
Multituklar Boilers.
COUMMI BOILKK*.
&a, Ao.
We invite al those repairing Maohineryof any kind for any purpose, large or small, to write for particulars and prices. From the extent of our slock we are generally able to giro immediate d«li ver \
Visitors, whether buyers or not, are always welcome to inspect the magnificent display in our new and sxtensive Showrooms, J
129, 131) 133 & 135 HA.IT STREET, HAYMARKET, STDKTEY.
