

AITKEN’S ALE.
LIFE BITOY BRAND.
*the best in the market.
DICKENS’” WHISKY.
USED BY THE LATE CHARLES DICKENS,
AND SUPPLIED TO THE PKSNMPAE CHIBS BN SYDNEY.
Harrison «Ss Attwood, 251 George-st., Sole A-gents for KTew South Wales.
ROBERTS’ HOTEL,
IvCarfeet Street, S'S’IDIiTE'S".
UNRIVALLED ACCOMMODATION.
ZDicfeson’s Hotel, Eu-lli-
“Bull! Pass.” “ Look-Out.” “Wishing "Well.” “Loaaon Waterfalls.”
DISTANCE FROM SYDNEY, 42 MILES.
HORSES AND VEHICLES ON HIRE.
EVERY ACCOMMODATION.
DICKSON
Proprietor.
NEW YORK LIFE INSURANCE CO.
LIFE ASSURANCE ONLY,
PURELY MUTUAL,
STATEMENT FOR YEAR ENDING 31st DECEMBER, 1889.
Income for year ending 1889 ... ... ... ... ...
Amount New Business during 1889 ... ... ...
Accumulated Funds 31st December, 1889... ... ... ...
Surplus by the New York State Standard
Total Amount Paid to Living Members during last 45 years, in Endowments,
Dividends, Ac. ... ... ... ... ....
Paid to Representatives of Deceased Members
Amount of Interest received on Investments
Incontestable Mon-Porfeiting Free Tontine Policies
Secures YALDABLE INVESTMENT FEATURES, in combination with INSURANCE at LOW COST. Guaranteed
options at the end of Tontine period.
The POLICIES, as now issued, are notably free from restrictions as to Occupation, Residence and Travelare
INCONTESTABLE after Two Years, except, in case of fraud.
CLAIMS are payable in the colonies at the nearest Branch Office, in sterling, and all Disputed Claims (in case- any
should arise) in Australia are to be decided by Australian Courts.
Chief Offices, Department of Australasia: ... BOND STREET CHAMBERS, SYDNEY.
JOSi-AJEaC IXOWXniaZj, General Manager.
w.
oKsJ
u
Grand Novelty! Grand Novelty!
FOR MARKING v
LINEN. PAPER, ENVELOPES, &e.
Special Mon-ograrms.
New System, more perfect than the Rubber. New
Invention. Prizes from the New Orleans (U.S.) and
Melbourne Exhibitions. Prices.—Medium Monograms,
with box and bottle of Indelible Ink for marking Linen,
Paper, Collars, Cuffs, and Handkerchiefs, Price 4/- in
Sydney, 4/0 in New South Wales, 5/- in other Colonies.
L. Shrager, 19 Macquarie-Place, Op. Exchange,
&
Howard’s Colonist 2-Fnrrow Digging
Howard’s Single-Furrow Digging
Plough.—(o.l.)
Tluo 3RioMfefe*to. or tli.o ■37i3M.e*s I
PLOUGHING AND HARROWING IN ONE ACT.
Bhar© Points only cost 6d., and are Reversible.
Chaff-Cutters, Horse . Gears and every kind of Agricultural Implements
lIST STOCK.
, Enquirers please quote this paper.
280 a PITT STREET, SYDNEY
(Corner of Pitt and Bathurst Streets).
rp~pq —p~i -
LONDON & SYDNEY TEA COMPANY,
409 Street, SYDNEY.
HIGH-CLASS TEAS,
Packed in 201 b. and 401 b. Packages,
At Is, 6t1., Is. 9d. and 2s. per Lib.
»**SE
/N.
New Customers please enclose Remittance or
Reference.
Speciality: A Single Package at Wholesale Price.
tT OTTR BLENDER AT WORK ON INDIA AND CHINA.
The Bulletin
fol. 11—Nj. 542.]
[Saturday, July 5, 1890,


TOBACCO
m
mm
car.
Mi
m
ffiWM
iPPiiJPWf
Ij&fUiJkHiUr =»SiS fc»i fin
lilLeuJ
DIXSONtSOMS
Customs Heturns.
American Leaf.
Dixson and Sons consumed in 1888, 52,592 lbs.
more, and in 1889 (over 14 tons) 98,939 lbs. more
American Leaf than all the vest of New South
Wales put together.
DIXSON’S TOBACCOS having the largest
sale of any in Australia are
£
*
o
X
'Jt.
r
<V
SIR ROGER
i
Dr. RIDGE’S
FOOD
FOE INFANTS AND INVALIDS
“This is the MOST PERFECT FOOD
we have examined.” — Chas. H, Piesse,
M.R.C.S., F.C.S., &c. Wm. Johnstone,
Ph.D., F.C.S., &c., Public Analysts.
DR. RIDGE’S ROYAL FOOD MILLS
LONDON, ENGLAND.
If You have
Nervous Debility] Fever & Ague,
Sick Headache, Wasting of Flesh
Bilious Compi’ntsl Sleepless Nights
Neuralgia,
Or any disease of the
Liver, Bowels or Kidneys, Lack of
Strength or Nerve Power,
you can be Relieved and Cured by
LARMER’S
CELEBRATED
TONIC.
Price, 2s 6d & ss; Post, Is extra-
Prepared only by—
O-AXETS & CO.,
Chemists,
78 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
For Sale by all Chemists.
- •
- -?
IJ|> ; ggyg •iiJJifiilj AT
i\A%imm*
. j
AUCTIONEERS* ESTATEACEHTS
P^CiAPfAOCOONTSAi.
k^ip
BAILEE & CO.,
Geneeaij Auctioneers and Estate Agents,
335 Collins Street, Melbourne, and 14 ihapei
Street, South larra.
r ATKINSON’S >
ENGLISH PERFUMERY
surpasses all others for its natural
fragrance.
ESSENCE OF WHITE ROSE
FRANGIPANNE
STEPHANOIIS
YLANG YLANG
OPOPANAX
and other well-known Perfumes are
unequalled for their delightful and
lasting odour.
Of all Staleri, and of the Manufacturers-*
J. & E. ATKINSON,
24, OLD BONO STREET, LONDON.
Trade Mark
few Lyrs -
—“ White Rose ”on Golden
with Address in full.
A
GOLDEN SHANTY.
PRICE : ONE SHILLING. .
CARLSBAD
NATURAL MINERAL WATERS
are now imported in bottles and used in treat
ment of CHRONIC GASTRIC CATARRH, HYPER
LBMIA of the LIVER, GALL STONES, CHRONIC
CONSTIPATION, DIABETES, RENAL CALCULI,
GOUT, and diseases of the spleen arising from
residence in the tropics or malarious districts.
THE NATURAL
CARLSBAD SPRUDEL-SALT
In small and frequent doses Is an efficient
DIURETIC,but as an APERIENT it should be taken
BEFORE BREAKFAST, In doses of from 1 to 2 tea-
spoonfuls, dissolved in water. To Increase the
APERIENT action of the Carlsbad Mineral Water,
a teaspoonful of the Salt, previously dissolved
in water should be added.
SOLE CONSIGNEES for the U.K. and the Colonies
INGRAM & ROYLE, 52, Farrlngdon St., London,
And of all Chemists throughout the World.
The Natural Mineral Waters of
f
{STATE
SPRINGS.)
G RIN DE-GRILLE .—For Affections of the
Liver, Biliary Organs, &c.
CELESTINS, —For the Kidneys, Gravel, Gout
Rheumatism, Diabetes, &c.
HOPITAL. —For Stomach Complaints.
HAUTERI¥E. —An excellent Table Water,
OF ALL CHEMIST* IN AUSTRALASIA.
NITER TRAVEL WITHOUT I r L
IN EVERY HOUSE,
:nksiu
EFFECTUALLY DESTROYS,
ML NOXIOUS INSECTS^
FIEAS.FLIES.BEETLES MOSQUITOES.
(COCKROACHES AND IS
AT THE SAME TIME QUIT E
HARMLESS TO BIRDS DOGS,
TOWLS OR OTHER | ""
ANIMALS %
f
i
Va u > u < /
'o v •*W ? AV .«? i
f
FELTON-GRIMWADEUCS
- MELBOURNE
WANTED IN EVERY HOUSE.
Ask for KRUSE’S INSECTICIDE, and Beware
of the Numerous Imitations.
CLARENDON HOTEL, MANLY,
The Brighton of New South Wales.
AT the CLAEENDON HOTEL, Banquets, Suppers, Private Dinners, E vening Parties, eto., are
served on the Shortest Notice in the Large Dining Hall, Besides having a most recherche
Dinner, you can enjoy from the balconies the magnificent view of the sea and surrounding country;
here also ycu can have good company, good wines—in fact, everything that can possibly make one
comfortable can be found at this really first-class hotel. Fishing and Picnic Parties provided. Table
de Hote at One o’clock daily and Sundays. No' expense is spared by Mrs. Kilminster to make her
\ isitors comfortable and her Hotel the best in the colony.
JMLrs. Clarendlow. BCotel,
Opposite OCEAN BEACH, MANLY.
g, goertz,
Stock and Share Broker,
-^gkeucstt,
BRISBANE.
Member of the Brisbane Stock Exchange.
THOMAS MCREERY:
MEDICAL HERBALIST,
83 Oxford Street, i doors above Riley Street.
Private Diseases of Both Sexes a Speciality.
Consultations Gratis. Charges very Moderate.
A Trial Solicited.
A SPEEDY CURE GUARANTEED.
TTISTORY OF BOTANY BAY.
PRICE : ONE SHILLING.
68 Hunter Street, and 8 Bligh Street,
SYDNEY.
IF 1 . SHEOEDEE
LIVERY, BAIT, LET-OUT AND COMMIS
SION STABLES.
Horses and Vehicles of every description for
Sale or Hire; also, good reliable Ladies or Gentle-
men’s Hacks.
THE BALLARAT COFFEE PALACE,
Lydiakd Street, Ballarat.
VISITORS to the Golden City will find ever]
convenience at the above Establishment
The Only Coffee Palace in Ballarat.
MODERATE
REID & SONS Proprietors.
GOLDEN SHANTY
PRICE : ONE SHILLING.
.«aSftr*
SA
Purchasers should see that the Label on every bottle of the original
WORCESTERSHIRE SAUCE
bears the Signature, thus
O'
Ask for Lea & Perrins’ Sauce, and see Name on Wrapper, Label, Bottle and Stopper.
Wholesale and for Export by the Proprietors, Worcester; Crosse $ Blackwell, London, §c., So.J
and by Grocers and Oilmen throughout the World.
Everyone should Read-
“ HISTORY of BOTANY BAY,’
By ARTHUR GAYLL.
Profusely Illustrated by “ The Bulletin's” well-known Artists, L. Hopkins and Phil May.
ONE SHILLING; per Post, Is. 3d
Price
May be had from Agents, or direct from “The Bulletin” Office.
Agents—Victorian : A. Benjamin, 321 Little Collins Street East, Melbourne; Tasmanian: Fitzgerald Brothers, George Street
Launceston; Queensland: J. H. Thompson, George Street, Brisbane.


Medical.
V:
■f
m
AYER’S PIERS are unsurpassed as a
remedy for constipation, biliousness, sick-head-
ache, dyspepsia, jaundice, and the common
derangements of stomach, liver, andbov.-el.ru
They break up colds, mitigate fevers, relievo
gout, rheumatism, and neuralgia, cleanse the
system c£ malarial poison, and assist in the
formation of. pure, rich blood. These v, ell-
known pills are compounded of the essential
virtues of the host vegetable cathartics, and
contain neither calomel nor any other deleteri-
ous drug. They may, therefore, he adminis-
tered in all cases where a purgative is needed,
without fear of ill eifects. Being sugar-coated,
they are pleasant to take, and their medicinal
strength is preserved for an indefinite period
and in any climate. They should ho in every
domestic medicine chest and traveller’s satchel,
Ayer’s Pi!
PREPARED BY
s
Dr. J. C. AYER & CO., Lowe!!, Mass., U. S. A.
Sold hy Druggists and Medicine Vendors.
f
WHO IS
WEAK
ƒ
Nervous k Debilitated
Who in his youth has trifled away his vigour of body,
mind, and manhood, should consult PROFESSOR
CARL STINEWAY, the Eminent Specialist,
in diseases of the Genito-Urinary Organs, who is
still treating with the greatest skill and success all
Private, Nervous and Chronic Diseases.
Professor STINE WAY 7: S success, which has
become so firmly established throughout Australasia,
is based upon the facts : —ist. That every case treated,
even in its most remote effects, is specially studied,
thus starting aright, and. The Medicines used are
exactly adapted to suit the case, and are compounded
From the purest, freshest, and refined ingredients,
thus promptly producing results without overdosing
ar injury.
I seek cases where all else has failed.
Young and middle-aged men and others, who
suffer from Nervous and Physical Debility,
Exhausted Vitality, Premature Decline, etc.,
can recover the same degree of health, strength,
and energy experienced in former years, by
consulting (in person or by letter, which is
free), Professor STINE WAV. who has re-
stored thousands of sufferers to vigorous man-
hood. after all other treatment had failed. It
makes no difference what you have taken, or
who has failed to cure you. Cases that / accept
for treatment are quickly and. permanently
cured.
DO ANY OF THE FOLLOWING SYMPTOMS,
OR CLASS OF SYMPTOMS MEET YOUR
DISEASED CONDITION : Are you a sufferer
from bad health in any of its many forms, consequent
on a lingering Nervous, Chronic, or Functional
Disease? Do you feel nervous, debilitated, fretful,
timid, and lack the power of will and action ?
Are you subject to loss of memory; have spells of
fainting; fullness of blood in the head ; feel listless,
moping, unfit tor business or pleasure, and subject to
fits of melancholy? Are your kidneys, stomach,
urinary organs, liver, or blood in a disordered con-
dition ? Do you suffer from Rheumatism, Neuralgia,
or other aches and pains? Arc you timid, nervous,
and forgetful with your mind continually dwelling on
the subject ? Have you lost confidence in yourself,
and energy for business pursuits? Arc you subject
to restless nights, broken sleep, dreams, palpitation
of the heart, bashfulness, confusion of ideas, aversion
to society, dizziness in the head, dimness of sight,
pimples on the face and back, and other desponding
symptoms? If you are afflicted, why further neglect
your health or future happiness, when by a single con •
sultation (which costs nothing) you can be placed on
the way to health, strength, and vigour ?
All correspondence held sacred. A speedy
and perfect life cure is guaranteed in all cases
/ undertake, where doubt exists the sufferer is
frankly informed.
Persons living at a distance who desit
treatment without delay can, by forwarding
full description of their case and fi, receit
by return of post the medicines required.
Do not despair, even though all others hax
failed in your case. No matter what you
complaint may be, call or write — l will cut
you. If you are ill, do not delay ! My va.
experience enables me to guarantee a posith
all cases undertaken. CONSUL
LA I/O NS FREE. Medicines sent seem
from observation to any part of Australasic
wlf POm Bondage to Freedom,” m
latest work on Private, Nervous am
tnronic Diseases, should be read b;
every man; nearly one hundrei
Pages. By post, two stamps.
_ A written guarantee given in al
undertaken, and no promise
that age, integrity, and lonj
experience do not justify.
to Freedom.” reatise “ From Bonda 8'
tdflress: Professor CAM, STIHEWSY,
23 Elizabeth St., Sydney, K.S.W.
Offices and Parlors—Rooms 3, 4 5.
Consulting Room — 6.
Laboratory & Drug Warehouse-
Hunter Street.
Something ISTew.
Y 0 , NAM E neatly printed on Forty (40) Beautif
L^dJ^T* 1 J ISITING CARDS, comprising Flo.
POR OtJf Qm a r ■ Blrd ’ &c ‘ No two alike. AI
wantcr) « SHI [ jLI , NG 111 Stamps, postage paid. Agen
"anted. Samples free. Address-
Austral €arrt aiul Novelty C«„
14 Hunter Street, SYDNEY.
Business Announcements.
OBERTs
□
mqng.
RO
HANTS
ITHQNiJbe
r; 3
r n
Cz3
L'jJ
M
i
mm
ROBERTS & CO.,
-w HOLESAL E
Ironmongers* Importers* Iron and Machinery Merchants*
HAY AKD EM GOJ E STREETS SYDNEY,
Head Office: 85 Gracecluircli Street, Loudon, E.C.
IMPORTERS OF
Railway & Bridge Contractors'
Plumbers' .
Squatters’
Requirements
IN
Great Variety.
r IMPORTERS OF
Engineers' and Blacksmiths’
Couchbuilders'
Mining
AGENTS FOR:
Korting’s Gas Engines —The best and cheapest yet made. Automatic self-governing, thus saving cost of gas.
Braddock’s Water and Gas Meters and Gas Lamps. Reading Iron Works Universal (Split) Pulley Wheels.
Howe’s Platform and Counter Weighing Machines and Weighbridges.
f
«f"* v *x
SI
«aa s«9 S 3
op
3 Hi
, ■
r
fr\
xv
r
e
'V
CLARENCE S*
SYDNEY.
AGENTS
_ m New South Wales.
T R I UMPH
of The Qo_ojp3plßU over Bad-
Used in hospitals throughout the world in preference to the
best Urench Brandy. TEY IT.
PRINCE OF WALES’ HOTEL,
St. XSildaL,, Victoria.
Within Five Minutes from STATION, and One Minute from ESPLANADE and BATHS.
MRS. ifONG MENG ... ... ... Proprietress.
ƒ
BUGGIES, CARRIAGES,
WAGGONS,
HARNESS, etc.
Machinery of all kinds.
WILLIAM FLEMING,
22 & 24 Clarence Street,
SYDNEY;
and at 2 St. James’ Buildings,
MELBOURNE.
Business Announcements.
MASON BROTHERS,
f
ƒ
LIMITED.
263 to 269 KENT STREET,
SYDNEY,
Have always in Stock for Sale to lha
j radc i ru'd Wholesale Buyer* Only ,
t roiiutongerv, jmrt
< : ENERA L lIA UD VVA UE
f.1.-iss, China itnd
E A 11 T H E N W A R E.
H7A7;,S’. JIKF.RS it' SPIRITS,
AND GENERAL
BILK MERCHANDISE.
Agents (or
.1 OITNAY A LK ER and SONS
( Id Highland Whisky.
LI'CIEN FOUCAULD & CO.'S
Old Brandies.
,T. T. GAYEN’S,
Schnapps and Geneva.
A. MERVIN and SONS’
Edinburgh Pale Ale.
SEND TO
lEszusiKrES.'sr ssh3xtg>-,
SCENIC AND PORTRAIT PHOTOGRAPHER,
£l6 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
■ FOR
(dialogue of the most Complete Series of Views to
he obtained in Australia.
Jenolan Caves, Ilawkesbmy and Nepean Rivers,
Blue Mountains, Harbour and Coast Views
Victorian and New Zealand Views.
Groups'of Australian Aboriginals and South Sea
Island Natives, &e., &c.
8, H, SMITH & SOW,
MANUFACTURERS * IMPORTERS OP
PTITg /I]o C/IPg,
302 George Street, Sydney,
3 Doors South ol Hunter Street.
iiiy
m
A Large Assort
aasnt of English and
French Ooods, from
the best Makers to
choose from.
Every description
of HATS and GAPS
made to Order.
Medical.
„ M .
saf
,/fXL.
'*<&o*rw a *£'
f *cr u rW* V
TO YOUKTG- MS9T,
DR. FLETCHER’S
TREATISE ON NERTOUS DISEASES, THEIR CAUSE,
SYMPTOMS, TREATMENT, AND CURE.
rpHE directions contained in this little treatise will be
L found of immense benefit to the sufferer ; and if these
directions are observed during the early stages of Nervous
or Sexual Debility, No Medicines will be required., as, by
observing the directions given, the patient can Cure Him-
self.
This admirable little treatise is specially written to
show a method of counteracting the evil effects of indis-
cretions in early life—overwork, irregularity in eating or
drinking, &c. It is the result of much study and long
and successful experience in the treatment "of diseases,
and contains a fund of useful information to every suf-
ferer from the following complaints, viz. Nervous
Debility, Dizziness, Specks before the Eyes, Pains in the
Back, Defective Memory, Loss of Will Power, Loss of
Energy, Spermatorrhoea, Bashfulness, Discontentedness,
Constipation, Liver and Kidney Derangements, Atrophy,
Impotence, Impure Blood, Foul Taste in Mouth, Palpita-
tion of Heart, Wakefulness, Despondency, Excessive Ner-
vousness, Inability to Marry, Premature Decay, and other
symptoms experienced by nervous sufferers.
All Should Send for this Little Treatise.
If the complaint is of long standing and requires
medicine, Dr. Fletcher will GUARANTEE TO CURE
ANY CASE OF NERVOUS or SEXUAL DEBILITY
with ONE COURSE OF MEDICINES LASTING FIVE
WEEKS, and will send with medicines A WRITTEN
GUARANTEE to cure same or return the monies paid.
Dr. Fletcher’s treatment is both simple and effective,
and within the reach of the poorest. It is unlike any
other, and with it he has cured over 25,000 patients, and
invites patients to investigate his statements by verifying
the testimonials published in his treatise. The treatise
will be forwarded on receipt of two stamps to cover
postage.
CONSULTATION BY LETTER, FREE.
Address in first instance—
DR. h. EWART FLETCHER,
Box 1417, G.P.O.
Sydney, N.S.W.
Private address—Clonmel House, Waverley, Sydney,
Remember, all cases undertaken, guaranteed, and a
signed agreement given, which provides that NO COST
be incurred by the patient if a cure is not effected.
VARICOCELE RADICALLY CURED WITHOUT
OPERATION.
Mention this Paper.
IN THE PRESS,
iC J± G-OZD-DZEIISr
By “BULLETIN" WRITERS.


TJTT-EESFOOI-. EAST IE
A pleasantly-situated Property, thoroughly cleared, close to Liverpool Station. Torrens’ Title. £1 deposit; 10s. per month.
.A.. W. STEPHIEIT, 28 CASTLEEEAG-H STBEET, SVTIDItTIEY.
4< A. Golden A Selection from the brightest of the original literary matter which has made The Bulletin world-famous. Price, Is. . posted, 3d. extra.
40000 BOOKS FOR COUNTRY READERS.
At One Pound per Annum.
Popular Books (including Fiction, Travels, Biography, History, &c.) are now sent daily from the Sydney School of Aits o
Members residing in the country, adjacent to railway stations. A package of Library Books (seven pounds weight) can be sen
105 miles for threepence.
Full particulars on receipt of addressed stamped envelope.
Sydney School of Arts, 275 Pitt Street.
CYRIL
HA.VILAKT33,
SECRETARY.
F. LASSETTER
AND
C 9
LIMITED
The BEST, CHEAPEST and LARGEST Hardware House in the World.
Gasaliers.
Steel Bronzed,
3-light,
Price ... 17/6
Steel Bronzed,
2-light,
Price ... 15/-
f
Other Designs
in S light
at
25/- 35/- 50/- 60/-
5-light,
40/- 60/- 70/-
A splendid
assortment on
view in our
Show - rooms.
Squad Arms, with rosettes.
2-Light, 16/6 ... ... 3-Light, 20/-
THE NEW TILE FIRE PLACE.
MARBLE MANTEL in WHITE, RED, or ST. ANN’S £7 7s. each
TILE FRONT (as shown), £5 12s. 6d, ; INTERIOR GRATE, £2 ss.
Other designs of Tile Fronts at 705., 80s. and 100 s, each.
Hall Lights.
Steel
Bronzed,
Coloured
Panes,
7in. square,
HALL
LIGHT,
Price,
10/6 each.
Other
Designs
at
15/- 21/-
30/- 40/-
f
ƒ
Best and
Largest
Stock
of
Chandeliers
in the
Colonies,
Gasaliers,
Brackets,
Lamps,
Register
Grates.
Heating
Stoves,
Coal
Vases,
Fenders,
Fire
Brasses,
1 &c., &c.
Particulars and Illustrations (post
free) on application.
CITY MUTUAL FIRE INSURANCE
COMPANY, Limited.
Established 1877.
Capital ... ... £500.000.
Head Office:
25 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY.
A Cash Bonus of 10 per cent, is paid to Policyholders
on renewals every year. Insurances covering Loss by Fire,
Lightning or Gas Explosion at Lowest Rates.
The DIVIDEND of 8 PER CENT, to 31st December,
1889, is now being paid, and the BONUS or 10 PER
CENT, to Policyholders will, as usual, be paid on re-
newal of their policies.
Money to Lend on Approved Security.
N.B. —The Bonus paid is equal to that paid by any
Fire Company in Sydney.
ROBERT KERR, Manager.
Artoor Vitas,
The Great Life Remedy <C; Tonic Invigorator,
IS the Best and Only Medicine which shows a
good result from the moment you take the
first dose. It acts on the blood like a charm, and
tones the internal secretions to healthy action,
restores strength to the stomach, and enables it to
perform its functions ; and for regulating the liver
and kidneys it has no equal. Price —4s. per
package. Also the Great Cure for Catarrh and
Influenza—the Arbor Vitae Oil, 2s. 6d. per
bottle. Sold by all Storekeepers and Druggists.
Sole Agents for New South Wales—
Tin.n Sutherland. & Co.
Wholesale and Retail Tobacconists,
81 King Street, Newtown, SYDNEY.
HOTEL IETROPOLE
Bent, Bhillip & Young Streets, Sydney.
READ THIS
Western Australia is a much richer colony than is
generally supposed as regards minerals, agriculture and
pastoralism.—Sir Samuel Griffith.
Professor Brown, of Victoria, who made a thorough
examination of the south-western portion of Western
Australia, states that not the other colonies only, but
even the people of Western Australia evidently do not
know how much there is waiting for development. He
saw thousands of acres in contiguous blocks of fine choco-
late lands, light clay loams, and peaty soils. He thinks
the important features of the district are its grand climate
and regular rainfall.
“ History repeats itself,” and as surely as Sydney and
Melbourne have made lightning-like progress, so will
PERTH,'
the Capital of West Australia.
TEN POUND BUILDING SITES
at PERTH, WESTERN AUSTRALIA.
Large Allotments, Splendid Position, Good Land.
Only £1 deposit, easy terms ; discount for cash. Buyers
of live lots receive a free deed. Title (Torrens’s) guaran-
teed to be Indisputable.
Also, CITY LOTS, from £33 each,
on similarly easy terms.
Marked plans and pamphlets posted to any address on
application to
THE INTERCOLONIAL INVESTMENT
COMPANY, Limited,
96 Bathurst-street, Sydney,
W. J. DOUGLAS, Manager.
GUY & COUNTY
Investment, LandL and. Building
Company, Limited.
Authorised Capital, £lOO,OOO ... Reserves and Uncalled Capital, £37,000.
Rates for Deposits: 12 months, 7 per cent.; 6 months, 6J per cent.; at call, 5 per cent.
Bonus to 12 months’ Depositors.
Directors: J. Garrard, M.P., Hon. J. H. Young, M.P., J. P. Walker, J.P., John C. Hamilton.
J. D. Ward, Manager, 327 Pitt-street, Sydney.
BANK.
327 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.


The Bulletin
Vcl 11-No. 542
SATURDAY, JULY 5, 1890.
Prlot, 6d.
— >,
SMOKE HO! THE PIPE OF PEACE.


The Bulletin
the National Australian Newspaper,
“ Australia forjthe Australians.”
Proprietors s BULLETIN NEWSPAPER 00.,
Limited. \
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
A.T 21 Pitt- street, Sydney, New South Wales,
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(payable in advance, only).
Per Annum 0 0
Half-yearly ' ... ... ° Q I2 6
Quarterly
Cheques, Drafts, etc,, and all Business Communications
to he addressed to William Macleod, Managing Director.
Literary Communications to he addressed to 3. P.
Archibald.
The Editor will carefully read and acknowledge in tne
“ Correspondence ” column all contributions submitted—
whether in the form of Political, Social, or other Articles,
Verse, Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian, subjects, and not exceeding two columns in
length, 'or say 3000 words, are specially acceptable),
Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper-Clippings. All
communications will be regarded as strictly confidential.
“ The Bulletin ” will return all unavailable MSS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we
desire those sending MSS. to distinctly understand that
ive are not responsible for the preservation or transmission
of such MSS.
NOTICE.
By sending direct to Tub Bulletin Office Twenty Shillings
sterling —which you may pay by Post Office Order, One
Pound Note, or Stamps of any Australian colony—you
can have The Bulletin posted regularly to you every week
for a year.
This offer is not open to residents of Sydney. In that
city The Bulletin is not delivered by mail, but is entirely
in the hands of our carriers, with whom we do not wish
to interfere.
SATURDAY, JULY 5, 1890.
An Averted Mistake.
It would have been a misfortune for the
cause of Labour had the wharf-labourers of
Sydney persisted in proceeding to that last
resource, a general strike, in pursuance of
their demands upon their employers. The
circumstances attending this dispute were
exceptional, and presaged the conditions
which will have to be encountered whenever
in the future Labour and Capital in Aus-
tralia fairly grapple. There has been estab-
lished of late a solidarity among the workers
in most departments of industry throughout
Australia which transcends anything of the
kind ever before realised in any part of the
globe. The Trades and Labour Councils of
the several provinces have succeeded in
securing a practical combination among
themselves which promises to possess an
efficiency for simultaneous action of a very
formidable kind. Within this continent the
scheme projected by the famous “Inter-
national” has, to an appreciable extent, been
inaugurated. Let Capital press unduly upon
shearers in back-blocks stations, and the
serried ranks of lumpers and seamen at the
ports of shipment for the wool shorn, are
immediately arrayed to fight a battle which
they recognise to be on behalf of their com-
mon cause. Let Capital refuse reasonable
requests of wharf-labourers, and every allied
branch of Labour begins to equip itself for a
struggle. Capital has appreciated the signifi-
cance of this extensive combination, and
in the particular case under notice,
had determined not to court defeat by
offering resistance with detached forces. The
employers particularly concerned, taking a
lesson from the unions of labour, concen-
trated and combined their forces. The contest
would, consequently, have been a desperate
one. Had Labour triumphed, the immediate
advantage would probably have been fully
balanced by the ultimate result. Capital
would have rallied in due time for fresh
efforts, and its obvious recourse would have
been to organise and more comprehen-
sive combinations.] Had the men been de-
feated, the result las regards Capital would
have been the same. Justly attributing
success to the partial combination which had
repelled attack, employers 'would have p: o-
ceeded to consolidate thoir'ppsitiou and
strengthen their alliances. -\ "
# l *
In entering upon a struggle under these
novel conditions, it was consequently of the
most vital importauce lialf*La6'bur should
more thoroughly reconnoitre the grounds
upon which the conflict was to take place.
It became a matter of essential moment that
all the conditions which might be reasonably
reckoned upon as ordinarily necessary to
secure a successful issue should be ascertained
to exist, beyond reasonable doubt. It was
the function of their leaders to make sure
that there were ahead of them no quagmires
in which the forces might be entangled, no
escarpments which might give the advan-
tage to their antagonists. In the case set
forth by the wharf-labourers of Sydney,
these necessary conditions were, according
to our present lights, by no means satis-
factorily established. In the present state
of-the contending parties they are but frac-
tions'among the community. Neither Labour
nor Capital is yet so completely organised as
to comprise within its combatant forces all
the people who may be regarded as naturally
belonging to each. Thus there exists a huge
majority of the population absolutely un-
attached. These may be regarded in the
light of the population of a country which is
the scene of war between two contending
armies. The friendly offices of such denizens
is a factor of considerable moment even in
actual war. But in a struggle between
Labour and Capital their importance is im-
mensely augmented. In the former case the
army which first occupies the territory can
peremptorily collect supplies and exact con-
tributions even from an unfriendly popula-
tion. From a friendly one they could secure
little more in the way of material support,
although their Intelligence Department
would be better served. In the latter case,
on the contrary, supplies and contributions
must be voluntary, as well as moral support
and countenance. It makes a stupendous
difference to Labour on strike whether the
general public is sympathetic, indifferent, or
adverse. The instance of the London-dock
labourers has illustrated this aspect with pro-
digious emphasis.
# # *
To secure this important co-operation,
there are several essentials. The cause of
the revolt of Labour must be so obviously
just that its fairness shall strike the most
superficial inquirer and the most s’luggishly-
indifferent mind. The grievance sought to
be removed should be one of striking
iniquity, and preferably one which, on
being stated, would stir up some de-
gree of indignation in the hearts of those
appealed to as arbiters. These conditions
were distinctively prominent in the affair of
the London dock-labourers. The statement
of their case and of their condition exposed
a degree of suffering and penury, of oppres-
sion and inequity which shocked the moral
consciousness of people of all conditions of
life. But for this circumstance the strike
must have failed in the accomplishment of
its object. The revolt would have collapsed
had it been supported merely by the funds
and contributions of trades-unions in Great
Britain and abroad. Even the bounteous
flow of moneys from Australia would have
been inadequate to enable the strikers to
maintain the struggle much longer, had the
employers held out, as it is not denied they
could. It was the powerful pressure of public
opinion which paralysed the resistance of the
dock-companies. It is by no means clear that
unless the public had in some marked degree
espoused the cause of the Sydney wharf-
labourers, they would have been successful
had they proceeded to the extremity of a
strike. It is true that their organisation and
their combinations are much better equipped
and much more solidly arranged than those
of any corresponding body in Europe have
ever yet been. But they would be limited
to such pecuniary support as they could
derive from their associated fellow-workers.
From the general public in a struggle which
had for its reason such obscure and technical
details as the proportion and status of ‘ ‘ con-
stant men,” tlie handling of “ bagged stuff, ”
and the concession of payment for spells of
“ smoke ho,” they could not rationally
expect any enthusiastic opening of purses.
And, on the other hand, their em-
ployers might, at this very juncture,
anticipate, with some confidence, finan-
cial contributions from quarters where
hitherto intei’vention in such contentions
has not occurred. The squatters of Queens-
land are yet hot with resentment at the com-
pulsion put upon them by the wharf-labourers
of Brisbane in the cause of the shearers, and
might open their purses with a hearty ill-
will against the wharf-labourers of Sydney.
## . *
Another serious reason why no extreme
course should be adopted by Sydney trades-
unionists at this particular juncture is fur-
nished by the attitude of the daily news-
papers. In the Sydney Morning .Herald
and Echo Capital has a consistent and un-
flinching advocate. That is nothing new and
may be passed over. The Evening News,
while grimacing as sympathetic, of the
class from which it derives its principal
support, has in the past not been so
conducted in its own internal manage-
ment as to encourage Trades-unionists to
reckon upon strong help from it. The Star
is controlled by a group of political capita-
lists. But till quite recently the Daily
Telegraph might have been relied upon to
give at least a generous consideration to the
labourers' cause, and its influence might
have been effectual had it been used to
counterpoise the hostility oftheS.M. Herald
and to keep the general public fairly in touch
with the objects and aspirations of the men
on strike. In connection with the contention
of flic Sydney wharf-labourers, however, all
this is changed. The leading columns of the
popular penny paper are made the vehicle of
angry denunciati ms and vindictive scoldings.
It appears possible that henceforth Labour is
to be taught by the Sydney Daily Tele-
graph that there is but one scheme of salva-
tion for the poor and oppressed—the Single-
Tax—and that all who seek the millennium
by other means are perverse heretics, who
deserve nothing better than persecution and
opprobrium.
- # # m
The attitude of The Bulletin continues
unchanged. From the day of its first issue
to the present hour it has never wavered in
the exposition of its conviction that Labour
does not receive, and never yet has received,
the full value of what it creates. And The
Bulletin maintains* with an assurance which
has derived strength from the tendency of
events during the years of its existence, that
Labour will in course of time succeed in
wresting from Capital that share of its pro-
ducts which continues to be filched from it.
The indications are all-encouraging. Small
signs and great conspire to bear testimony
to the impending event. To begin with
small things : —lt is only the other day that
an Australian ex-Premier deliberately put in
print his conviction that “ the only true and
just measure of the wages of productive
labour is, in addition to the cost of sub-
sistence, an adequate and fair proportion of
the new wealth produced by labour. ” This
maxim is quoted from “ Wealth and Want,”
a pamphlet by Sir Samuel Griffith, of
Queensland, in which also the iniquitous
falsity of the favourite capitalist dogma of
“free contract” between Labour and Capital
is unsparingly denounced, just as it had been
many a time in The Bulletin. Sir Samuel
Griffith’s brochure evoked from W. H.
Traill a sympathetic series of papers, pub-
lished in the Sydney Daily Telegraph, in
which the ex-editor of The Bulletin pushed
Sir Samuel’s theory a stage further, and
carried it on to. a demonstration that the
true basis of exchange is “the product of
one man’s fair day’s labour for the product of
any other man’s fair day’s labour.” Mr.
Traill found a difficulty in reconciling this
maxim Avith the fact that one man is often
capable, owing to natural talents, to produce
tAvice as much as another less gifted man.
He suggested that moral law must, in such
case, come to the rescue of economic law.
This aspect of the case has since been pretty
fully elaborated and most effectively enforced
by Bellamy in his now celebrated work
“Looking Backward.” In the imagined
commonwealth of that enlightened author,
the gifted Avorker received his reward, sup-
posing he exerted his talents, in honour.
The Avage question is explained thus ;
“ And supposing all do the best they can,” I answered,
“ the amount of the product resulting is tAvice greater
from one man than from another.”
“ Very true,” replied Dr. Leete ; “ but the amount of
the resulting product has nothing whatever to do with
the question, which is one of desert. Desert is a moral
question, and the amount of the product a material
quantity. It would be an extraordinary sort of logic
which should try to determine a moral question by a
material standard. The amount of the effort alone is
pertinent to the question of desert. All men who do
their best do the same. A man’s endowments, however
Godlike, merely fix the measure of his duty. The man of
great endowments who does not do all he might, though
he may do more than a man of small endowments who
does his best, is declared a less deserving worker than the
latter, and dies a debtor to his fellows.”
In short, all men receive equal material re-
turns for their labour, and all have plenty,
none superfluity. Yet the men highly en-
dowed do not chafe at the merging of their
extra products into the common stock.
Although their gifts receive honorary recog-
nition, they are taught to look higher—
“Do not imagine, either,” explains the man of the
twentieth century, “because emulation is given free play
as an incentive under our system, that we deem it a
motive likely to appeal to the nobler sort of men, or
worthy of them. Such as these find their motives within,
not without. ..... To such natures emulation
appears philosophically absurd, and despicable in a moral
aspect.”
# * *
To pass to things which may vulgarly oe
regarded as greater. The recognition by the
Emperor of Germany of the superlative im-
portance of the social problem presented by
the condition of the labouring class and their
relations to capitalists, marks the progression
which has been achieved. The young despot,
disi’egarding the Avarnings of the subtle
Bismarck, has felt himself impelled to touch
a button which sets in motion a vast machi-
nery Avhich, once it commences thus to re-
volve untrammelled, will be far beyond his
forces or his skill to arrest.
•* * #
Yet none the less is caution and judgment
required. The power of the Emperor of
Germany is but a trifle compared with the
potency of Capital whei) exerted with com-
bined and concentrated direction. The
worker must proceed sagaciously and steadily.
It is incumbent upon him to establish him-
self solidly in every position to which he may
Avin his Avay before he proceed to attempt
fresh conquests. To the workers of Aus-
tralia we Avould offer the advice to consoli-
date their ranks, to make their organisations
more and more Comprehensive until every
Avage-earning class belongs to a Union and
every Union is affiliated Avith the Labour
Councils. This achieved, the Avay is
cleared for Avinning the first position—the
“ three eights.” In these colonies that part
of the enterprise is readily accessible by
the ordinary constitutional process. The
organised bodies of Avorkers can, if the pro-
perty qualification be first abolished from
the suffrage, and “One Man One Vote” made
law, send into Parliament a phalanx of
representatives pledged to legislate for rca
sonable hours of labour. Stage by stage
economic reform may thus be advanced,
until the ultimate achievement be realised,
and the horrors of penury shall no longer
haunt, the apprehensions of any man Avho is
Avilling to do honest Avork.
Shall the Workman Trust the Churches?
One of the largest orders of these latter days has
been recently undertaken by the principals of the
Salvation Army in London, who, it is cabled, will
soon establish a system under which labour may
be methodically distributed and labourers kept
constantly in work. The system is not to be con-
fined to London or England ; it will ramify to
every quarter of the world reached by the poke
bonnet and big-drum of the saved. Work ade.
quately remunerated for every hale man willing to
work is, to our mind, the consummation of reli-
gion, philanthropy, and statesmanship, it is the
epitome of the whole duty of man the governor to
man the governed. The scheme to bring thi s
about is a lever that will go under the
foundations of the social system, will raise
up valleys and overturn mountains, and will
make the world a habitation for human beings
and not a jungle or brake wherein beasts raven
and their victims bleed. But who at present puts
his hand to this lever ? Who proposes to throw
down the mountains on which robbery and op-
pression sit enthroned and to lift sunward the
gorges and valleys where misery sweats and
hunger weeps ? Is the hand on the lever the
hand of a hero, a crank or a hypocrite ?—for it ig
by one of these alternately that the world is
moved.
* * *
The details of General Booth’s scheme are not
to hand, but enough is known of his character and
the principles he professes to justify its being
taken for granted that certain conditions of mind
on the part of applicants for labour will be in-
sisted upon whatever the complete scheme of
amelioration may be. In other words, it is a
justifiable supposition that General BooTH’sseheme
for the amelioration of humanity is intended to
subserve the doctrinal sentiments which his
organisation endeavours to propagate. General
Booth will try to do undenominationally, but
within the ' four corners of Christianity,
what denominational Christian churches once
tried but failed to do, and what they
have in the latter days of their fatness and insin-
cerity wholly neglected to attempt. When the
monks in the Middle Ages provided work for the
unemployed or rendered help to the distressed, it
was the sanctification of the person’s soul more
than the comfort of his body they had in view.
To sanctify his soul they felt it their duty to in-
doctrinate him with the convictions they held,
and his treatment as a person in distress was
generous or the reverse in proportion to his capa-
city to absorb the sentiments prescribed. In fact,
in those days obstinacy in swallowing the opinions
of benefactors removed the person not alone from
the ranks of the unemployed, but from those
of the living. While the number of dissenters
from the current creed was small, the authorities
were able to starve whom they did not choose to
chastise into subjection. But as the number of
dissenters grew the difficulties of the authorities
increased, until it became practically impossible
to coerce persons heavenward by operating on
their stomachs. When, on emerging from the
Middle Ages, the Church found that she could not
longer materially serve her doctrinal interests by
providing labour and food for those out of work,
she relaxed her se.dulousness on their behalf and
left them to oscillate on the cross-beam between
supply and demand.. At various epochs since,
religious corporations have looked at hungry
stomachs as promising material for spiritual
adherents, and have accordingly set their potage
steaming and dangled viands in the air. And so
here and there, wherever severe distress broke out.
# * #
But the success achieved by such campaigners
has been unsatisfactory. More than a ton of oat-
meal goes to the making of one convert, and he
nearly always turns out a hypocrite. Therefore
enthusiasm for this method of imparting religion
is rare at present. But is not this essentially the
method General Booth proposes now to revive ?
It is true that the ground he covers is wider than
any particular denomination, but it is not wider
than Christianity, and his proffers of assistance
bear therefore to non-Christians the same character
as the proffers of assistance made by one denomi-
nation to the members of another. More than
that, the majority even of Christians consider his
system of worshipcharlatanic and unwholesome. Is
he not then on precisely the same lines as those who
once systematically tried to win the mind through
the needs of the body, and as those others who
at recurring intervals stir the smoking soup under
the nostrils of the starving heretic? Dr. Kely-
nack, President of the Wesleyans, speaking his
own thought and considering himself in unison
with General Booth, said, according to a credible
press report, that “the churches would naturally
seek to recommend only those candidates for work
who, by character and fitness, would most fully
meet the requirements of those engaging them.”
When a churchman stipulates for character and
fitness, it is not unjust criticism to say that he
intends the candidates to have views like his
own ; but lest the inference be objected to we will
quote the Moderator of the New South Wales
Presbyterians when discussing the same topic. “ I
think,” said the Rev. W. Dill Mackay, “ that
the proposals of the Army, if carried out, will be
helpful as a grand auxiliary to the Gospel.”
* * *
Hence Humanity is once more to be spread out
as the raw material out of which a religious
organisation is to be manufactured. Its sorrows
and tears are to be counted and weighed, and
so much alleviation will be forthcoming for
so much doctrinal belief. If a hundred wOrk-
less men stand before General Booth’s
barrack door the fifty who yell “Hallelujah!
according to prescribed standards will, it is human
to suppose, be sure to receive precedence for
character and fitness over the fifty who regard the
yell merely <is »i disscjorcUmt noise and the stnncUircls
as an intellectual burlesque. That is the point on
which the proposed scheme pivots. That is the point
on which those who consider it should keep a fixed
eye. Is the want of employment to be allowed to
be made an instrument in the hands of General
Booth, or of the combined Christ an Churches,
whereby doctrines, hitherto unacceptable, are to
be disseminated ? Is the only door through which
the workless can pass to a field of labour, one that
opens into a sanctuary where they must bare their
heads and first worship gods which they never
knew or have ceased to hr e Cranks or hypo-
crites, this hand on the level is a wrong one.
Humanity, and not doctrinal religion, must nerve
the arm and heat the blood in the veins of the man
who will raze the mountains from which robbery
and oppression callous’y overlook the gorges m
which misery and hunger are entombed


Commissions and Percentages.
Under the complex conditions of civilisation and
industrial competition at least one-third of
humanity is worse than wasted. The world is
full of useless industries, which have their origin
in the ceaseless desire of man to get a percentage
out of some other man—in the hunger of the shark
and the deputy-shark and the assistant-shark to
levy a commission on the produce of labour; and
the number of these carnivora is past calculation.
The actual producers are few, and the sons of the
horse-leech who live on the results of their efforts
are very many. The great commercial cities which,
have grown in recent years to such tremendous
proportions are, in the main, mere aggregations of
middlemen, whose one source of revenue is to buy
goods which they never saw, and pay for them
with money that they never possessed, and sell
them again at an advance to other middlemen who
make their living in a similar fashion. The
artisan or the agriculturist, who actually does
something to add to the world’s assets, has to sur-
render a huge proportion of his earnings to the
dozen men who look on and watch him do it, and
to the dozen other men who assist the first lot in
looking on. In a community of a million able-
bodied workers there are, as a rule, at least a hun-
dred thousand men who grow rich by scrambling
with each other in dingy offices and murky ware-
houses for the percentage which the toiler has to
pay for their entirely unnecessary assistance —men
who live by huge sterile ledgers, in which
they enter the purchase of goods which they don’t
want, and the sale of them at a profit to other
men who don’t want them either, and who pass
them on successively to six other men who have
no use for them, but every one of whom charges
the maker or the consumer a price for the mere
fact that his food and clothing have been written
down in their dog-eared volumes—men who drag
merchandise into warehouses, and then drag it out
again, and haul it into other warehouses, and live
on the value of all this needless friction and con-
cussion—men who know other men who are ac-
quainted with other unspecified individuals who
have money to lend, and who all charge a com-
mission for lending it, or assisting to lend it, or
looking on while someone else lends it, and grow
rich on the mere fact that they know these other
men. The armies of the kites and crows are not
more innumerable than the carrion birds of com-
merce, and every year some new carnivorous fowl
is being invented to add to their number.
* * #
The overworked, underpaid toiler of the cotton
or woollen factories is a fair example of the advan-
tages of the system which is euphoniously described
as the Division of Labour. The results of his
industry pass first into the hands of the manu-
facturer who sells them—generally through the
agency of the glib and oily bagman, or through
the combined agency of half-a-dozen bagmen —to,
the wholesale merchant, who probably passes them
on—through the unwearied efforts of more bagmen
—to some smaller merchant, whose bagman, in his
turn, trades them off on the retail dealer. Each of
these successive agents keeps a staff of employes
who make elaborate accounts about the goods, and
charge the producer at one end and the consumer
at the other for their efforts. Each one drags the
goods into his own particular warehouse and
charges for this unnecessary toil and perspiration.
Each one incurs innumerable expenses fop rent
and other items of outlay, and levies a commission
for the value of his uncalled-for interference. Each
one sends out his agents, not so much to make
sales as to prevent, if possible, other people making
them. Man, even in his civilised state, cannot
conveniently wear two hats simultaneously, or put
on three shirts, one above the other, or wipe his
countenance with four handkerchiefs at one and
the same time, and not being either a quadruped
or a centipede his capacity for boots is limited, and
the man who has no boots usually has no money ;
so the merchant, being well aware that there is
already a sufficient supply of all these articles,
sends out his expensive representative to sell by
dint of hindering some other man’s equally expen-
sive representative from selling. His business is
partly to dig a bole but chiefly to fill up the hole
that somebody else has dug, and the consumer,
who requires the hole, has to pay not only the
man who dug it but the eleven other men who did
their level best to obliterate his work.
* # *
The retail dealer carries on the competition. He
fully comprehends that the dealers already in exis-
tence are sufficient, so far as actual motive power
is concerned, to supply the wants of the community
six times over, and therefore he devotes himself
to preventing them from supplying the wants of
the community. The huge plate-glass windows of
his warehouse, the glare of gas, the staff of assist-
ants who spend half their lives piling up a fresh
display of goods every morning and unpiling them
at night, the huge advertisements which he issues,
are all so many efforts to undermine his competi-
tors. _ When the original producer of the mer-
chandise comes, in his other capacity as the con-
sumer, to buy for his own use the produce of his
own labour, he not only pays a hundred separate
individuals for selling his own goods to himself,
but he pays five hundred more for trying to pre-
vent them doin ? it. Even the legendary system
of Chinese cookery by which a small pig was put
in a house and roasted by burning down the
structure on top of it, was economical by com-
parison with the modern scheme of industrial
completion. The primeval Chinaman paid for his
house and his pig, and there his outlay ended. He
was not called upon in addition to hire a man
to try to steal his pfig, and six other men to prevent
him doing it, or to defray the expenses of a num-
ber of unauthorised individuals who insisted on
his house against his will ; yet the
enlightened European, whose idea of business is
to hire as many men as possible to prevent him
carrying out his own intentions, and to pay
them for falling over him and over each other,
and who buys expensive obstacles to pint in his
® wn road, professes to look down with scorn on
that illogical Mongolian, and regards the commer-
cial system of the nineteenth century with a holy
veneration which borders on idolatry.
* * *
Nine-tenths of the commercial community are
merely examples of wasted enterprise, and an
equally large proportion of men in many other
occupations may be included in the same cate-
S° r y- The banker is a species of subsidiary hawk
who lives chiefly by storing—for a consideration—
the plunder of the other birds of prey. The
stock-jobber produces nothing, but lives on the
public ; and his brethren, the man who floats the
wild-cat mine, and the person who organises the
land-syndicate, and the piromoter who gets up the
Peruvian guano enterprise, and the astute indivi-
dual who founds the indefinite “ agency compiany”
which lives by doing everything and taking five
Per cent, from everybody, and the still wider and
more authority who establishes
j e ‘mortgage company” which exists by
borrowing money from one man at four
Per cent, and lending it to another at eleven
are all members of the same unprofitable and un-
necessary family. The commission-agent is a
species of extra commercial superfluity, who earns
his oats by intruding himself in between some of
the six,or eight recognised middlemen who habitu-
ally levy toll on the industry of the nation, and
the “ financial agent ” —a more modern excrescence
—flourishes by inserting his obtrusive carcase
between borrower and lender, and charges per
cent, for being there. He is generally associated,
more or less, with that kindred vulture, the lawyer,
whose mission on earth is to render law so corn-
pi icated that no mortal intellect can understand
it, and then take everything his client has got in
return for his services in making the code of no
use to anybody. And Australia expends an enor-
mous annual revenue in order that some thousands
of men may make justice impossible, because of
something done by some extraneous idiot in the
reign of Henry the Imbecile, son of John
the Assassin, and may prove that the Ten
Commandments are of no account because Moses
wasn’t duly stamped and entered and initialled in
Egypt. And along with the lawyer may be
reckoned a brother vampire in the shape of the
professional land speculator—a useless obstruction
who creates neither wealth nor intelligence, and
lives by booming malarious swamps or remote
mountain tracts, and either perpetrates a fraud on
the nation at large by obtaining the soil much
below its value, or else effects a heartless swindle
on his clients by selling it at an exorbitant price.
Frequently this needless atom of humanity asso-
ciates himself with some allied descendants of the
horse-leech and becomes a syndicate, and this ten-
dency on his part affords support to a smaller
parasite who occasionally terms himself a “ syndi-
cator,” and who earns a commission by drawing
the incorporated vultures to the spot where the
carcase is lying. But whatever the name may bo
the result is always the same. The banker, the
syndicate, the commission-agent, the stock-jobber,
the lawyer, and all the rest of the million useless
hangers-on, produce, individually and collectively,
nothing , and the handful of genuine workers pay
for them all, from the gigantic “mercantile
agency ” with branches all over the globe, down to
the book-canvasser who sells a volume of solemn
drivel for six times its cost, and the itinerant
agent with the flaring oleograph whose land-
scapes look like a blue heifer in convulsions
on a shoreless ocean, and the, proprietor of the
adjacent ditch, and warranted to be an infallible
cure for extreme old age and all other diseases.
And if this burden is not sufficient, he supports
the pawnbroker, the bill-discounter, the landlord,
and the landlord’s agent, the missionary, the
drought-stricken preacher with the empty church,
the bookmaker, the Imperial Institute, the Free-
trade lecturer, the testimonial to the broken-down
politician, and other encumbrances without
number.
* * *
The customary reply, when any objection is
raised to one or another of the great host of cor-
morants, is that the Division of Labour is the
foundation,of our civilisation, and that to abolish
it would be to relapse into barbarism. To this it
is only necessary to reply that if nine-tenths of
the men. who live on percentages and commissions
represent labour in any useful or reasonable form,
then the definition of that word is badly in want
of immediate revision. The world is rich enough
to recompense at a lavish rate all necessary or
sane forms of labour, but so long as the bulk of
the world's wealth goes to pay for the elaborate
and much-divided uselessness of the enormous
army of commercial hangers-on little is left for the
genuine worker. The of the great
majority of the mercantile community are of no
more service to the class on which that community
preys than if the wealthy traders and bloated
syndicates spent their lives in digging a hole and
then filling it up again, and kept on repeating the
process to all eternity. Even a hereditary
monarchy and a standing army are cheap indul-
gences compared to the cost of the modern system
of distribution, and when the toiler begins to
realise that at least two-thirds of his earnings go
to enrich the vultures of the Exchange and to pay
commissions and all manner of percentages to men
who produce nothing and abhor useful toil in
every shape, then possibly the insane policy of
competition will be abolished and co-operation
take its place.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Law of Distraint.
The dissonant voice of “ proputty ” fills the
atmosphere of the Victorian Parliament, and one
of the very few statesmanlike and generous actions
ever done by the Gillies Government has roused
every landlord in the House to a state of frenzy
that borders on madness. Last week Attorney-
General Wrixon introduced a harmless little Bill
on the subject of distraint for rent, which pro-
vided, first, that the landlord shall only be pri-
vileged to seize the goods of the tenant himself,
and not be allowed to embezzle promiscuously
everything in the house whether it belongs to the
tenant or not ; and, second, that tools to the value
of £lO, bedding, and wearing apparel shall be
exempt from seizure. That was all. The at-
tenuated barrister with the large hat who repre-
sents-the legal element in the Gillies Cabinet, did
not propose to abolish the ruffianly law of dis-
traint in its entirety and place the landlord
on the same footing as an ordinary . credi-
tor —he merely proposed that he shall no
longer be allowed to play the part of a
common thief by stealing the goods of one man for
a debt owing by another, and that he shall be pro-
hibited from depriving a workman of his means
of livelihood by annexing his tools, and from be-
having like a savage by dragging, the bed from
beneath a sick woman or a helpless child. But
“ proputty” rose as one man in defence of the old,
brutal law, and fully half the House got up with
a howl of indignation to refuse permission even to
present such a measure. For a while it seemed as
if the Bill would never even reach the formal stage
of introduction, and only amathetic appeal by the
Premier ultimately induced the vociferous mob to
calm down and content themselves with a resolu-
tion to slaughter the proposed reform when it
came up for consideration in the usual way. And
yet at least half the men who boiled over in
frenzy at the idea of doing scanty justice to
a starving tenant, are damp with unshed
tears over the survivors of Balaclava, and
the other half were flabby and limp with pathos
some two short years ago, about the distant Chow
who had been swamped out by the rising of the
Hoang-Ho. And the whole lot are prepared to
holler amid a cloud of lofty and generous senti-
ments for their beloved Queen, and to acknow-
ledge that Land Nationalisation is a noble thing
provided it is someone else’s property that is
nationalised—-not their own. Man was a hypo-
crite from the beginning, and be promises to keep
on being the worst kind of a hypocrite to the end .
There is only one Goo and his name is “ Pro'
putty,” and snuffle is the firstand lastand greatest
of his prophets, and the chief end and purpose of
the human race is to repent at somebody else’s ex-
pense, and to sorrow over somebody else’s iniquity,
and to, shed the last drop of somebody else’s blood
in defence of the great cause of Liberty.
.
The German Reformer.
Like the comet, Kaiser William of Germany is
an object that moves very fast and doesn’t stay
long. But while he stays, it is his whim to pose
before the world as the apostle of a semi-Sooialistic
propaganda, as the boss despot of Europe with a
yearning after liberty, equality, and fraternity, as
a man of peace in command of some three million
soldiers —in short, as tim head of a retrogressive
dynasty whose mission it is to inaugurate the era
when poverty shall be abolished and all men shall
be free and equal. The sight of Leo XIII.
pounding the Salvation drum or walking in an
Orange procession, would be no more incongruous
than" the attitude of Kaiser William, yet the
world seems to take the German potentate quite
seriously. Baron Rothschild denouncing capital
and preaching Communism would be a surprising
spectacle, and Abdul Hamid 11., when he founded
the short-lived Turkish Parliament, made an
astonished world sit up in amazement, but William
leaves both these men far behind. Possibly the
Mongolian Emperor running an anti-Chinese
movement in his palace at Pekin would present a
closer resemblance to the German monarch in his
present situation than any other man well could,
but then the world would regard the crowned
hereditary leper merely as a conundrum while it
calmly accepts the Imperial incubus at Berlin as, a
coherent fact. William 11., as a great social re-
former, has been advertised in the press of the
whole civilised world, and the world apparently
fails to see that there is one insuperable obstacle
which makes his success in this capacity impos-
sible. And that obstacle is William himself.
Unless the Kaiser abolishes himself Germany
must remain the same very much as she now is,
and the Kaiser is certainly not prepared for this
act of abolition. He proposes by virtue of his
almost despotic power to give sundry shadowy and
incoherent concessions to the nation, but the very
power by which these concessions are to be
granted is the head and front of his offending. He
has planned out a long series of reforms, in all of
which he is to act as the father of his people, but
if the people are even to amount to anything as a
free community they must start on the principle
that they.are already grown up, and are not in
want of a father of any kind, and, above all things,
that there is no demand for the crude, unfinished,
half-grown, self-constituted parent who proposes
to fill that office. William’s purpose is to raise
a self-governing nation and then to govern it
himself amid the blessings of an enfranchised
world ; and when he realises that the first effects
of any general reform will be to make him an
entirely useless and powerless excresence the
maddest despot in Europe will be William the
Liberator himself. If it is possible for a man to
construct a lull-grown god, he must not be sur-
prised if the god wants to manage his own busi-
ness afterwards, but the Kaiser has not yet learned
this lesson. The lamented Pius IX. started liis
career by endeavouring to meet the wishes of
Italian liberalism, but when he found that the first
desire 1 of Italian liberalism was to have no Pius IX.
at all, the papal reformer froze up on the instant.”
No doubt William 11. is a man full of noble in-
tentions, but they are too expensive for him to
carry out, and it is nothing short of rampant idiocy
for the world to grovel in adoration of the snag on
which liberty is hoplessly wrecked, simply because
that same snag is willing to do anything for the
cause of liberty except get out of the way. If the
traveller is eaten by a lion, it matters little to him
that the lion is a sympathetic animal, and weeps
because it was not fitted to live on vegetables and
lead a harmless existence which would endear it
to humanity in general; and so long as the German
Kaiser holds the Kaiser’s despotic authority, we
care very little whether he wants to be a despot or
not. The beneficent tyrant is the greatest of
human calamities, because he makes tyranny
popular and strengthens the position of his brutal
successor; and the despot who grants liberal re-
forms, yet reserves the power of abolishing these
reforms at his pleasure, is as great an incubus
after all as the whole-souled ruffian who rules by
the gallows and the knout.
It does not yet appear to have thoroughly struck
the people of Australasia that whenever, in a
court of justice, there is room for a second Crown
Prosecutor, his proper place is on the floor of the
court, and not on the bench. Here you have
eight or nine judges of the Supreme and inferior
courts in the various provinces eternally telling
juries that it is “ their bounden duty ” to return a
verdict of guilty, and emphatically remarking that
any other decision would be “an outrage on
civilisation,” or words to that effect. In the pre-
sence of horse-haired officials, jurors appear to
lose their self-respect utterly and to behave as
poor, mean worms. If juries only knew it, there
is nothing under Heaven to prevent them, on
being directed as to what verdict they must
return in a criminal ease, from emphatically and
effectually and with impunity telling the judge in
so many words to mind his own business. The
Bulletin looks forward with much interest to the
time when some level-headed juror with a square
jaw will calmly tell the presiding judge that the
coercive remarks just offered by him have been
contemptuously trodden on and dumped into the
waste-paper basket.
» # *
As to the recently-introduced judicial system of
re-calling a jury to court, enquiring as to the
causes of their want of unanimity and publicly
cross-examining individual jurors as to their
reasons for not coinciding with the majority, it
need only be pointed out that such procedure is a
flagrant invasion of the rights of citizens. _ If a
judge, whose summing-up may have been simply
an appendix to the speech for the prosecution, has
the right which he claims to catechise an individual
juror as to the latter’s reasons for certain opinions
and to browbeat him in open court into accepting
the opinions of the majority, then that judge also
has the right to march into the jury-room and
make a fiery speech bolstering up his indivi-
dual opinion upon the case. English law in
criminal cases takes no account of the in-
dividual opinions of jurymen, but is only
concerned with the collective and unanimous
opinion—as conveyed through the foreman—of the
12 men sworn. The action of New South Wales
Judge Forbes in browbeating a dissentient juror
the other day, involved so monstrous a violation of
jury-right that it could only have been com-
mitted in a country where legal procedure was
still tainted by the coarseness which, in bygone
times, characterised the administration of jus-
tice. It will have been noticed that the Sydney
daily press, with one exception only, reported in
a tone of sweet approval the fact that Judge
Forbes had impudently ordered the name of the
juror in question to be struck off future jury-
panols—in other words, that a citizen had been
publicly degraded and deprived of his rights
because he had dared co exercise his undoubted
privilege. Little better can be expected of a press
which has allowed obscure citizens against whom
there was a public outcry to be deprived of the
rights of trial according to British law and mass-
acred in an outburst of unfounded public fury.
* * *
The 11 men are often wrong and the one man is
often right, and sometimes all are wrong. The
judge thought the convict Buttner was guilty, so
did the Executive, so, of course, did the police.
Yet Buttner was innocent, and on the day on
which he was to have been hanged he became a
free man. Not long ago (this story has already
been printed in The Bulletin) a certain judge
of the N.S. Wales Supreme Court, much addicted
to lecturing juries, especially in criminal cases, for
the purpose of driving home his own opinion on
the question at issue, finding the deliberations of
a jury protracted, directed the sheriff to bring
them before him. When they came in, the fore-
man was asked to state the reason of the delay in
returning a verdict. “ The case is a very simple
one,” said the judge, “and the law was clearly
explained to you; so that there is no reason why
yon should not have made up your minds about it
in ten minutes.” The foreman replied that they
were all agreed except one of their number ; who
after a little further discussion, was pointed out as
the cause of all the trouble. The judge thereupon
addressed him in the solemn tones usually reserved
, for a sentence of 15 years and three floggings,
pointing out the enormity of his offence in ob-
structing the administration of justice, and con-
cluding with a demand for his reasons in acting as
he did. “May it please your Honor,” said the
juror, “ I 'was the only man on the jury who took
your Honor's vine of the case !” So that, after
all, Private O’Brien may be the only man in step
in the regiment.
The cross-headings of police-court reports in the
daily press are worth studying. For example,
Melbourne Age deals gently with the charges
against Messrs. Mirams, Gourlav, etc., as “The
Building Society Trouble,” but when the police
are proceeding against a man for having a lot of
supposed-to-be stolen watches, etc., in his posses-
sion, the Herald breaks out into big print with
“The Jewellery Haul,” and goes on to speak of
“the prisoner’s den,” he being still legally inno-
cent at the time. The word “ haul ”in this con-
nection means “catch,” if it means anything at
all, while “ den,” as applied to a domicile, is, un-
doubtedly understood to suggest its occupation by
thieves. A charge laid by the police being no more
infallible than an information sworn by Colonel
Templeton, it follows that one case might be
brought under notice as “ The Jewellery Trouble,”
and the other as “The Building Society Haul.”
The moral of which is that circumstances, especially
pecuniary circumstances, alter cases in the daily
press.
*
Gannon, M.P., of Queensland, has introduced a
Bill rendering it illegal for any lawyer to practise
in any court before any justice or judge who may
bear to him the relationship of father, son, or
brother. Gannon might, while he was about it,
have added son-in-law —and also have stuck in a
clause rendering it felonious for more than one
man of any family to become a lawyer at all.
Either that, or else confine by statute to certain
families the privilege or ignominy of practising in
the Supreme Court —just as the French confine to
one family the succession to-the executionership.'
While human nature stands at its present level, it
will always disgust the general public to see a
Supreme Court run by a family syndicate. Men
may be metamorphosed into angels as soon as .they
become lawyers, but the world refuses to hear their
wings; it perceives in them, on the contrary, a
set of men actuated by the same passions and sub-
ject to the same weaknesses as humanity in
general. Gannon is only pressing the legal maxim
that no man can be a competent judge in his own
cause. The common people, being very human,
will always refuse to believe that a judge is not
insensibly influenced by his blood relations, and it
will pay the State to maintain the common
people’s respect for the judges even if the whole
lawyer brood have to be summarily deprived of
their present vested rights and pensioned off unto
the third generation.
+. .
The petition drawn up in favour of the release of
Rkskigh Martin, now under sentence of two
years’ hard labour for libelling N. S. Wales
Railway Commissioner Eddy, is calculated to
injure, instead of to help, Martin’s cause. It is
evidently the work of some enthusiast who
regards himself as a very fine bush lawyer indeed,
and is chiefly devoted to the work of showing
(what is quite true) that Martin, not Eddy, is
now the injured man. In one sense Martin has
brought upon himself a great part of his excessive
punishment, for up to the present date he has, so far
as we can discover, failed to utter a single word of
apology for the sweeping statements made by him
against Commissioner Eddy. All the same, the
sentence is a monstrous one. Martin, as has
been pointed out, clearly did not originate the
rumours falsely imputing nepotism to Mr. Eddy.
The rumours had long been existent, and however
malevolent may have been Martin’s intentions,
he certainly did an enormous service to the
Commissioner in enabling him to decisively
nail the lie. Then Martin’s statements were
of so wild a character as to be prinia-
facie ludicrous and incredible. The pass-
ing of so terrible a sentence on so obscure an
individual, for the promulgation of calumnies so
easily and effectually disproved, can only be
accounted for on the supposition that Judge
MTarland regarded as especially sacred the
character of a man who had £3OOO a year. Slanders
publicly and boldly launched against a man of
high position and plenty of means do not by any
means constitute the worst form of defamation,
inasmuch as they in themselves provide a method
of redress. Ten thousand times greater is the
crime of him or her who imputes by private
innuendo dishonesty to a man or unchastity to
a woman who may see a cloud on the public face
without ever knowing the reason why. Broadly,
it may be said that no one can by open attack and
specific indictment effectually injure the character
of a man in Mr. Eddy’s position. Many gross
cases of slander come yearly before the courts, wet
which of them has ever been punished in so terrible
a manner as the error of the man whose crime
against society consists in having been too ready,
in a land which has hitherto reeked of nepotism,
to believe that the new order was even as the old ?
A Liverpool letter-carrier has been con-
demned to pay £3O damages in a breach of promise
case brought by a Birkenhead bonnet-builder.
The defendant, as excuse for breaking off, produced
about 150 letters written by his intended mother-
in-law, including one which would fill two news-
paper columns, and covering 10 loosely-written
folios of foolscap. He complained also that he
could never go over the doorstep with the daughter
without the mother being at their side or behind
them, keeping a watchful eye upon them.


[?]
846 Macquarie-street North, Sydney, July 2,1895.
My Dear Moorabinda,—
The race of the saw boneses is spreading rapidly through
Australia, and now when you have a gumboil and knock
up against a big brass plate it’s a hat to a hairpin that the
person described on it wears petticoats and has her ba r
“done ” and lances you in a dadoed surgery with fans on
the walls, though the she-medico is, as a rule, more severely
upholstered than her brother practitioner. The full-
fledged doctress is often a very mannish, cold-blooded
creature, capable of leaving her dinner to dissect a body
and then returning calmly in time for dessert! But she
is a babe in her practical callousness compared
with the budding Miss /Esculapius of the “ schools,”
who strews fingers about “ just to make Ma
jump.” Indeed, one coming lady M.D. is in the
habit of carrying home tit-bits of dissected human beings
in her lunch-basket, and produces an ear in a thoughtful
manner during a pause in the conversation, or threatens
tlie visitor in a flirty way with a human shoulder-blade.
Speaking of lady-healers reminds me that a well-known
and charming lady - dentist, “with friends among
scientists, royalty, and cultivated people of all nations ’’
(vide advance advt.), is at present in Sydney yearning to
at tend to the stuffing of society’s hollow tooth. The lady
will attend to both gentlemen and ladies, and male
society will rally up to have its dog-tooth prospected
around and its molars sounded every day in the wed •
However, I am sure the lady doesn’t sit on the patient’s
knee while she hauls on a “ canine” like that very fas
cinaling Sydney dentist generally does when the sufferer
happens to be young and pretty.
I wonder how much longer the low intercolonial steam-
ship fares are going to obtain ? A man from a n: ar colony
reports that he went during February and returned the
other day when he was surprised to see that, with few'
exceptions, he had just the same fellow-passengers ! They
had all overcome the “Oh, my,” they were as fit as pos-
sible, and they ate like grasshoppers. Bewildered, he
sought an officer, who explained to him that living being
far cheaper per mare than per terrain during the contiuu
ance of current rates, lots of people who had to make ends
meet just kept bobbing to and fro while the fun lasted.
, 1 wonder how Ipng it will be before somebody issues\a
startlingly new book on Etiquette ? Almost everything
lias changed, from “how-de-do” to what constitutes a
divorce. A new code of behaviour has arisen—somewhere
-.but as yet the disciples of conventionality have no
guiding pamphlet to aid their gropings towards higher
things, and so they still antic feebly after the old recipes,
weighed down and blighted by the knowledge that they
are what frockists call drill ode. For instance, most
people would become hysterical if a man turned up
at a gilt-edge wedding in a cut-away coat; yet Albert
Edward sauntered up the aisle at a swagger “ white
funeral” recently in most undeniable morning dress,
and, of course, he is always de rigueur. Then the
average blushing bride would feel deeply insulted if the
dressmaker lined her train with a suspicion of pale-pink—
yet at ’ome one or two top-note brides-expcctant are
having their gowns fixed up in that way with no visible
reason for tinted wedding apparel, except that it is good
form. Furthermore, the dire awfulncss of the dreary
noon nuptials and the sinister wedding-breakfast set for
an impossible hour have been recognised in the new code,
and now the “ best ” people get married coolly and
leisurely in the afternoon, and ask their mourners to a
wedding-tea when no speeches are stuttered and no
healths arc heard. Then, in regard to christenings-hut
stop ! I don’t intend to draw deportment diagrams for
the benefit of a stiff-necked generation. It is enough that
i sound a warning note, and hint darkly for the eonsola.
lion of befogged aldermen that t he very latest soup-plates
don’t actually require to be tilted up.
8o cross-backed equestrinneism is really under serious
discussion, and some women who have probably never
tried it are enthusiastically going for the “ reform.”
Nonsense! A pick-a-back girl is one of the funniest
sights you ever saw, though the rider herself doesn’t fee]
very glad about the matter, for her general impression is
that she is being bobbed up and down on an article com.
posed of leather eminences relieved with steel buckles
which is generally coming up as she is going down, and
vice versa. Cross-riding is simply awful, and your Sappho
frankly admits that she is speaking as one with under,
standing. I needn’t particularise, but it was in the
country, of course, and I felt next morning as if I had
been attitudinising as the Colossus of Rhodes.
Soapy shilling’s-worth from the 5.M.11.
LADY, Travelling Companion REQ., Tasmania,
India, salary, wardrobe prov. Aucher, 8.A., 137
Eliz.-st.
Exactly. But fancy anybody wanting a lady companion
to do the Island of Girls with !
Among the celebrities awaiting election at next Mel-
bourne Austral Salon ballot are Lady Carington, Lady
Halid and “Rolf Boldrewood who, by the way, is
brother to Lady Darley, Lady Scratchley and Mrs. Massie,
the maternal parent of the well-known amateur cricketer,
11. 11. Massie.
An enquiring individual asks through the Press: “ Has
anyone noticed that the patterns of men’s trousers are
governed by the styles affected by women ?” and your
Sappho answers decidedly that she hasn’t for one. Never
were women so scantily skirted—never were dudes so
baggy below, and one or two tail-coats at present pen
dulating behind local footlights look suspiciously like as
if they were kept.perky by a little steel or two. The
t ishionable trouser is an uncanny thing which looks as if
it were gathered round the waist on a tape .and left to
hang in (lowing outline turned up carelessly at each end,
a id any clever young man who owns a thimble and a
1 e-king imedlo could make himself up a pair of fashion
able continuations in two twinkles. On the other hand,
only a very smart girl could make herself a well-hung
skirt, as skirts are worn at present. And, speaking of
baggy clothing, reminds me that it is quite a moving spec-
tacle to go down to the Quay when the English mail goes
cut and view the ricketty exiles massed to quaver three
chi-yahs and gaze in a debilitated way at the lucky beg"
gabs going home, bai jove. They—the exiles—are mostly
attired in Bloomer costume with very small hats, and as
they 7 stand straddled out throwing dying glances at the rig.
ging they look like pelicans in the wilderness engaged as
dummies for a slop-clothing firm.
If it weren’t for the depressing aphorisms of Percy
Lyndal, who is so facially qualified to act a good young
man that moral truisms from his mouth sound like a
parson reciting Watts, so to spialc, “School,” at Sydney
Criterion would be too nice for anything in a general way
There is no dressing in either of the four acts, and if it
weren’t for Pattie Browne’s shoe-buckles in the last lesson
—I mean act—there would be nothing hut faces to
criticise, though Emma Temple’s wedding-gown in white
hroche hangs beautifully. The delight is in four acts, and
is a sort of cuddle crescendo beginning with “ recreation”
and ending with “ realisation,” whT-n, oddly enough, the
curtain rises on Naomi Tighe with a headache ! That’s a
very human touch, isn’t it? There was a crowded house
on the third night, with one or two fair gowns. A lady in
black, with leaves in her hair and bodice, and a girl in
pale-yellow silk with bands of cream moire and a wreath-
let on her toplet looked simply charming, but the circle
generally was a heavy mass of mufti.
Outside the Government offices in Macquarie-street,
(overlooking the beautiful gardens of the Upper Domain)
repair fond couples at noonday, and, as love is blind, they
don’t slow down in their transports when the windows are
full of critical heads. The other day two souls with but
a single thought were seated on a bench right in front of
the remorseless windows, which sheltered on this occasion
a brace of M.’sL.A. All at once Romeo and Juliet were
startled by a policeman, who apologetically told the
flabbergasted pair that “Mister Dash, Im Pay, an’ Mister
Blank, Im Pay, wor Inkin’ thro’ the windy,” and, in'short,
begged them to moderate their, transports out of common
charity to two bald and much-married members of Parlia-
ment. But Romeo rose to the occasion. “ Kindly—haw—
tell the—haw—gentlemen that I am the Hon. Asterisks
just from—er—Home. I think they’ll understand, my
man.” Forty-five seconds later, the bobby returned with
the members’ visiting-cards bearing their profuse apolo-
gies, and desiring the Hon. Asteriske to call upon them
whenever he felt like going out to dinner. P.S.—This
story is alleged to be a fact, and facts are generally pretty
tough.
Despite the ceaseless downpour, the second Halid con-
cert, on 26th ult., was attended by a great throng which
had to be accommodated with extra seats. Decidedly the
most appreciated item was the Handel sonata in A, at the
conclusion of which Lafiy Halid was presented with a
beautiful white satin-and-lace basket filled with exquisite
flowers. She was also the recipient of a gigantic wreath.
Mrs. Turner, who wore a handsome black gown, received
much tribute for her “King of Thule” and “Bijou”
songs from “ Faust,” though her rendering of “Relics”
(comically hilled as “ Relict ”) was rather too brJvura-ish
for that simple little song.
There are dozens of hard billets to be filled in this work-
a-day world, but hardest of all, from coal-mining to com-
putation, is the situation of the woman of to-day. In a
former age, when women wore lace shawls and blushed at
everything and lived by book, all a girl had to do to he
absolute mistress of her circle was to be phenomenally
virtuous, talk in aphorisms, and faint at a beetle. Later
she starred as a good housewife, but in the parlour she
never touched the harpsichord and yawned at the men-
tion of politics, and still she was lauded in sonnets as an
ideal woman and nobody ever contradicted her. But the
poor, badgered she of to-day has a hard time of it keeping
up her end of the log of popularity, for she must be enter-
taining, but she mustn’t ogle ; she must talk widely on
every subject, from the social question to washing-
machines, but she mustn’t forget (/ frown down a giddy
story or rebuke a too domestically-tongued matron who
talks shop at table ; she must sing a French chanson in
the drawing-room and then retire gracefully to make the
coffee ; she must be loving, but she must be learned ; she
must hold her own in argument, but her husband’s word
must be law—in short, she must continue the toy she has
ever been and ever will be, only in her present state she is
more cleverly constructed since man must have ever so
much more mechanism for his money now-a-days. How
often you hear it said—“ Mrs. Dash is a good mother, cer-
tainly, but then such a fool in the drawing-room 1” or—
“ Miss Sparkler talks really well, hut she never darns her
stockings.” To bo a success as a woman of to-day you
must be little short of a genius—you can’t bring down the
house with an Italian fist and the consumption like our
grandmothers did.
The South Melbourne v. Carlton visiting footballers
were shown round Sydney harbour by the N.S.W. Foot-
ball Association on 27th ult., when the day was cold and
dark and dreary, and the gallant exponents of Australian
rules clung tenaciously to checked ulsters. Mayor
Burdekin was responsible for the excellent snack pro-
vided, and was loudly cheered by the party. In the
evening the E.S. Football Club entertained-the visitors
at a smoke-concert.
Rather a novel show will be the grand exhibition of
chess with living performers, to he held at Sydney Exhi-
bition Building on oth and 10th July, in the presence of
Lord and Lady Carington and the usual representative
list. The pieces will bo ladies and gentlemen in costume,
and the players will direct their movements through
heralds. N.B.—Pawns are strictly requested not to flirt.
Added delight will he a vocal concert by distinguished
warblers, who have kindly volunteered.
Sir Charles and Lady Halle will dine with Mayor and
Mrs. Burdekin on 3rd inst., attending the tahlcaux-vivants
at Sydney School of Arts afterwards.
The awful moral which looms large from “ Artful
Cards” at Sydney Royal is that people who “go it ” with
asterisks on a bottle or a visiting-card are apt to get their
best top-hats blocked and become a sort of foster-father
to a big trombone. As Dora Stewart, Irene Vanbrugh
wears a charming concertina costume in heliotrope (though
I must confess to getting very tired of heliotrope) with
velvet Zouave and very cunningly draped sash of helio-
trope liberty; Miss Johnstone wearing copper-red silk
and brocade relieved with black passementerie. In the
Steeplechase one wonders so much why Effle Liston, whose
charming countenance is always reminiscent of a full-face
half-crown, wears a small gem hat the size of a pot-lid,
that even the screaming farce itself is obscured by that
awful toppery, and one nearly forgets to notice how slim
Toole’s ankles are even in white hose. On the first night
(30th May) the d.c. wasn’t too full, and in dressing the
rage seemed to run to long, narrow ribbon sash-ends like
shavings, which seemed as if they had been left in a
scrunched condition during the late rains. And five
imidens in a row had all draped their well-oiled locks
with pearls.
Yours affectionately,
SAPPHO SMITH.
Mr. and Mrs. D. C. Bell have issued invitations fora
house-warming dance to he held at their residence, Bays-
water Villa, Double Bay, on Wednesday, 9th inst.
Lady Kintore’s latest is to issue invites to the Masons
without inviting their wives.
The marriage of Mr. R. Hope Atkinson, of the U.S.
Equitable Insurance Co. and Miss Duguid, is to take place
to day (Thursday) at a quarter to three at St. John’s,
Darlinghurst.
At a meeting of the ladies of the Tempe Re-union
Committee at Sydney Town Hall on Monday afternoon, it
was decided to hold the re-union early in August. The
committee meets again at the Town Hall next Monday at
3.30 p.m. All friends of the institution are invited to
attend.
“Some of the pupils and friends” of Mr. J. Kinlooh,
M.A., will hold an invitation dramatic and musical eiiter-
tertainment in Sydney School of Arts on sth inst. The
bill will include extracts from Shakespeare and a comedy.
Sydney University Dramatic Society have “ Blow for
Blow ”in rehearsal. It will probably be produced in the
great hall at an early date, under the management of
Fred. Norton.
The first meeting of Sydney Amateur Operatic Society
was held on the 18th ult., when Mr. A. W. Trincker was
elected conductor, Mr. Collman hon. treasurer, and Mr.
Hamlin hon. sec. The first performance will be “ Cloches
de Corneville,” now in rehearsal, and which will be pro-
duced at one of the theatres in September.
Melbourne University hali will be held at the local Town
Hall on 16th inst.
St. George’s Club give a concert and dance at St.
George’s Hall, Newtown, on 4th inst.
Of the recent Hopetoun reception, a Melbourne scribess
remarks that “ excellent provisions were made for every-
body’s comfort.” “A straw shows.”
Baron and Lady Carington finally leave Sydney (by sea)
on Ist November. They will travel from Australia per
Orizaba, which sails from Adelaide on Guy Fawkes. Day.
On dit that Captain Trench will not return with their
ex-vice-regalities, there being a lady in the case.
Over a hundred juveniles disported themselves at the
children’s hall given by Mrs. R. G. Phillips at her resi-
dence, “ Avonleigh,” Elizabeth Bay, on 26th ult. Some of
the frocks were very pretty, a little girl in mauve crepe de
chine relieved with violet velvet looking like a small fran-
cisca blossom. Mrs. Phillips wore a handsome confection
of black silk and lace with steel passementerie. The
decorations were especially well done.
The Gymnasium Fund Concert, held in the Victoria
Barracks Theatre, on 27th ult. under the patronage of
Colonel Spalding, turned out a great success in spite of
the rain. Owing to the miserable weather none of the
gowns were distinctly gorgeous though a well-draped
cream-silk looked nice-ish. A satisfactory programme
was gone through by Mrs. Dargon-Piercy, Mrs. Berry
Drinan, Major Baynes, and others.
The Sydney German Club masquerade ball, on 27th
ult., lacked “ go.” To do them justice, the masqueresses
appeared to have entered into the fun of the thing, but
the gentlemen dominos mostly seemed to regret not
having mamma along. Consequently there were few
denouements at unmasking.hour just before the supper,
which was quite a Lucullian feast.
The Austral Salon shivoo went off amid a great flourish
of trumpets at Melbourne Hibernian Hall, in the presence
of Governor Hopetoun and all Toorak sassiety. The
qualification to this institution was originally intended to
be Literature, Art, or Science; but it seems, alas,
to have degenerated into £ s. d. The few pro-
fessionals who assisted were instrumental in saying
the lives of the amateurs, who would in all probability
have been deservedly assassinated by an infuriated audi-
ence. Mrs. Dickenson read the Inaugural Address and
traced the birth of the Salon from Aspasia and Madame
De Stael; the precepts of these lively and popular ladies,
she indicated, it was the duty of all the members to
follow. This remark was not so vociferously applauded as
might be imagined, probably from the fact that the female
supers were neither young, shapely, nor pretty, and
lacked the art of the professional ballet-girl in making-up
effectively. The joke of the evening was the pious old
hoy who jumped into a hansom with his daughter and,
requesting to be driven to Lalla Rookh, was landed—well,
at “ Lalla Rookh.”
The ladies of Paddington gave an enjoyable social to
the gentlemen of that neighbourhood on 24th ult. The
dancing, interspersed with vocal and instrumental items,
was kept up till 1 a.m. We have been asked to give the
name of the reputed belle. We have arrived at the years
of discretion.
Mr. Percy Shannon, a widely-known pressman and
athlete, of the Wagga Express, was married, on 23rd
June, to Miss Blanche Battersby.
- Communications intended for this column should reach
Tun Bulletin office by Tuesday.
Ifc has been found that the First Napoleon
used to dictate to his secretaries even his love-
letters.
The father of Mile. Raflalowich, United
Ireland O’Brien’s bride, is one of the wealthiest
merchants in Odessa, but he is not a Russian.
Indeed, it is said that his name was originally
•O’Rafferty.
Italian navvies don’t strike when their
wages are reduced. Each cuts an inch off the end
of his shovel, saying, “Not so much pay, no lift
so much earth. So much longer last work. Italian
no fool like German. Italian no strike.”
A Sydney Anglican parson bitterly com-
plains in re the collection at his church, one of the
largest and most important in the city. The wash
on a recent Sunday panned out thus : 1 at £l, 9 at
2s. (id, 6 at 25., GO at Is., 109 at Cd., 166 at 3d., 1
at Id. ; total 352 people, £lO 10s. 7d. “De profits
may be shmall, but de shvindle is certain.”
We had a little story last week in which
a detective, dressed as a woman, played a leading
part. The yarn, a true one, has since received
fresh developments. The “private enquirers”
(there were two) had been shadowing the guilty
pair for weeks, and their guerdon, in the
event of detection, was to be the damages,
Well, at length they ran the lovers to earth in a
Surry Hills assignation house; they bolted, one
detective followed the flying Don Juan hot-foot,
and only caught up to him as he took out his
latch-key on his own doorstep, in
square. The other, attired as a woman, saw the
startled female person to a cab, drove her
to his office, and there bounced her into
signing a confession. Then they rubbed
their hands; the co-respondent was wealthy,
and two thousand pounds looked a sure thing.
They reckoned without their petitioner, however:
he took five hundred pounds to keep quiet, and
now, all their time, trouble and money thrown
away, they’re as mad as cats caught out in a
thunder-storm.
For many years there has existed in
N.S.W. a party processions law defacilitating re-
ligious fights. Certain venomous lodge-politi-
cians, having found that the N.S.W. electors
were falling into a noxious habit of voting accord-
ing to their political opinions instead of according
to their love for or hatred of the Pope or King
Billy, promoted a Bill with the object of bring-
ing about a return of the good old system under
which M'Cl’nsky, late of Armagh, could be sooled
on to bite the ear off Mr. Patrick O’Brien, late of
Cork (or vice versa), and thereby set going the ma-
chinery of the political derrick by which the boss of
the No-surrender Lodge, L.0.L., or the head of the
Hibernians, as the case might be, would be hoisted
in at the head of the poll. The Orangemen to a
man encouraged the party processions revival
scheme., to which the Catholic members also gave a
Machiavellian support, with a view to dishing the
other side. The proposal passed the Lower House
without a division, but the nominee Upper House
(not being dependent on the electoral influence of
religious-lodjte bosses and so on) has practically
fired out without a division this Bill for the
encouragement of manslaughter.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Theatre Royal J. L. Toole.
Her Majesty's “ After Dark.”
Criterion “ School. ”
Cyclorama .. Gettysburg',
Gaiety Theatre “ Little Lord Fauntleroy.”
Darlinghurst Skating Rink.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess’s. . .. “ Romeo and Juliet.”
Alexandra “ Master and Man.”
Theatre Royal “ Flying Scud.”
Opera House “ Now-a-days.”
New Bijou “ She Stoops to Conquer.”
Victoria Hall The U.S. Minstrels.
Waxworks The Phonograph-
At Sydney Royal houses are tailing off;
and, in view of the unvarying good business pre-
vailing in some other quarters, the decline cannot
be wholly attributed to the weather. In “ Artful
Cards ” —a prolonged burlesque into which Bur-
nand has crammed all the jokes that were too bad
even for Punch —Toole, as liumford, gives his
most acceptable Sydney performance, but the silly
old “Steeplechase” requires nothing short of
clowning to carry off its bald and purposeless ab-
surdities. John Billington infuses a certain
amount of manly brightness into the inane
and inanely-named Sir Haircut Shortleigh.
Messrs. Shelton and Westland are, as-.usual,
capable ; but the slim gent with the thick utter-
ance continues to stalk about on stilted legs like
a theatrical pestilence. The feminine opportuni-
ties are chiefly, and rightfully, at the mercy of
Eliza Johnstone, and the Misses Liston and
Donald are bright and natural as a countess and a
chambermaid respectively, though Irene Van-
brugh, up till now, is no better, thank you. Next
Saturday afternoon Toole will _ give his first
matinee, when, dipping into Dickens, he will
appear as Caleb Plummer in “ Dot ” and Sergeant
Buzfuz in the trial scene from “ Pickwick.” The
programme will, probably, be also changed in the
evening. Nellie Stewart opens at the Royal in
“ Paul Jones ” on July 12.
** * *
At Her Majesty’s rain has unsuccessfully
attempted to dilute “ Old Tom,” which character,
in the hands of George Rignold, lacking the.
rugged force and intensity of emotion imparted to
it by the massive Brother Bill, has, nevertheless,
much power and all the attractiveness of an
entirely different personality. Alice Norton —she
sobs like Mrs. Potter-built very much on the
same lines as Roland Watts-Phillips, loses little or
nothing by comparison with her predecessor.
Gordon Chumley—in the hands of Henry Hoyte, a
weakling utterly unfit to cope with the unscrupu-
lous Bellingham—assumed by J. W. Hazlitt, has
now a manliness that makes their front-cloth scene
one of the best. As George Medhurst, Henry
Hoyte is usually less artificial than his predeces-
sor, but cannot approach him in force and emo-
tional intensity. Sterling Whyte has somehow got
rid of his accent, and his Dicey Morris is one of
his best impersonations. As Rose Egerton, the
inexperience of Maribel Greenwood is painfully
apparent, while performer, actor, singer or orator,
who hasn’t a big month, considered as a cavity,
as well as an aperture, is heavily handicapped.
It lias somewhat surprised the Sydney public to
learn that Miss Maggie Moore will shortly appear
at this house in a play purchased by her in
America. This will be followed, probably, by a
Shakespearian revival in which both brothers will
take part. William is an ideal Falstaff.
* -* * *
At Sydney Criterion, even on the wettest
nights, “ School’’-money has been refused, though
attendance is by no means compulsory. Dropping
in one off-night we saw members of Parliament
standing all over the place, and met on the stair-
case at least £3O walking away on patent-leathers
and satin-slippers in search of a less exclusive
academy. “ School ” has greatly improved on its
first night’s performance. George Anson —made-
up to resemble Disraeli —in particular, has got a
better grip of the somewhat unsatisfactory part he
has to handle. The pedagogue, however, might
with advantage say E’ros instead of Er’os. The
production of “A Doll’s House,” owing to the
phenomenal success of “School,’’has been delayed
until 12th July; in real life the doll’s house usually
takes precedence of school in the feminine calendar
-# * * iff
At Sydney Gaiety the “ Little Lord
Fauntleroy ” Company opened on Monday last for
an eight nights’ season to a packed house, with
Olive Berkely, who has livened her business and
got rid of a tonsilitio obstruction, in the name-
part. All the old folks are to the fore, and the
play is staged, costumed, and played just as well
as when at the Royal. Inclined to guy the flabby
pathos of the first act and the ridiculous posings
of a livery servant, the audience took kindly to
the piece ere curtain-drop, and the success of the
season is assured. On Friday night Mabel Rus-
sell, of “Little Eva” fame, appears as the little
lord. The young Australian joins the company to
take the place of Gracie Hopkins, who, with
Henry Edwards and Ethel Winthrop, sails for
America by the next mail. The re-organised
company will then proceed to Brisbane, and it is
to be hoped they won’t get washed away on the
voyage this time.
** * *
Despite bad weather the Halle concerts
continue to draw splendid houses, and an exten-
sion of the season is announced. It is just
possible that under the management of Churchill
Ottou, the Sydney Centennial Hall will be opened
by the greatest musical combination that ever
came together in Australia. The names of Norman
Neruda, Charles Halle, Madame Patey, Signor
Eoli, Organist Best and Edward Santley would
command respect on any programme, anywhere.
** m *
At Bondi Aquarium the weather has sat
down heavily on the treasury, but that moist, un-
pleasant body having been temporarily removed,
the undaunted Wyburd is offering a large reward
for the capture of Egeson's drought. Pending its
arrival, he is exhibiting Winter, the sword-swal-
lower, who is on show with an Indian juggler,
whose name is spelt with three hiccoughs and a
sneeze. The international walking-match is again
postponed, and the competitors seriously contem-
plate making it a boat-race.
*
Sydney Cyclorama Gettysburg lias taken a
fresh lease of life. Thunder, lightning, and rain
(internal and external) have been laid on with a
new lecturer, and the show is punctuated at inter-
vals with bugle-calls, thunder, cannonading, mus-
ketry-firing, and military-baud music. In 4th
July special attractions are promised.
** m »
At Darlinghurst Skating Rink, the man-
agement are offering ninety guineas in prizes, to
bo awarded by popular vote to the most hand


A GHOST
is not a photograph, nor a photo, a ghost—but a good photo, is a
true reflection of the original. For high-art photos, go to the
London Palace of Art, 10 Park-street, Sydney. Country photographers’ work from developement
to completion executed at lowest prices. Bromides a speciality, Staff of artists kept for working up.
somely-oostumed lady and gentleman taking part
in their carnivals of July 7th and 21st and August
4th. Business continues to hum.
* SK * * •
The B. and B. revival of “ She Stoops to
Conquer ” seems sufficiently pleasing to pay its
placid way for a fortnight at Melbourne Bijou,
although the time-honoured fiction that two young
men in muddy boots could mistake an eligible
family mansion for a pub., is apt to stick in the
gizzard of modern scepticism. Furthermore, the
impossible motive of Goldsmith’s pretty comedy
is not, in the present instance, interpreted with
any too much naturalism. Except when he loses
his temper and indignantly requests young Mar-
low to clear off his premises, Mr. Cathoart is but
a heavy mechanical, three-strides-and-a-halt kind
of Hardoastle. He makes Ins points with a pick-
axe, and speaks his lines with more regard for old
tradition than common-sense. An interview be-
tween this antique delusion and three male re-
tainers is an outrage upon ordinary intelligence,
especially as regards the insane clowning of a red-
headed Diggory, but against this glaring display
of incompetency can be set an artistic little
suggestion of drunkenness by Marlow’s ser-
vant, played by Mr. Chichester. The worst
feature of Saturday’s performance, however,
was a Miss Lucie, who made her first
appearance in a weak voice and a disastrous
giggle, and appeared to lack every stage require-
ment, bar an abnormal belief in her hidden genius.
Miss Lucie was to be replaced on Monday night
by Miss Athena Claudius (who officiated as
Joseph’s sweetheart), but the change will make
little difference tr the show, because both young
ladies present a similar Dresden-china appearance,
and are probably sisters, cousins, or aunts to one
another. A lack of breadth and unctuousness of
style is the only noticeable fault in Miss Horner’s
cheerful effort, “Bob ” Brough’s conception of Tony
being also chippy, yet bright and original withal.
Mr. Inman makes a creditable Hastings, while
Mrs. Brough contrives to be a winsome, nega-
tive success as Miss Hardcastle. Finally, Cecil
Ward, in the trying part of young Marlow, comes
upon his Melbourne friends as a flaxen-wigged
surprise. He has done nothing so good before on
the Bijou stage. Cecil’s method always provokes
comparison with that of Kyrle Bellew, and the
present performance is worth especial notice from
those critics who discover supernal genius in the
last-named elegant young eye-roller.
* * * *-
Talking of Kyrle Bellew, he and Mrs.
Brown-Potter are with difficulty holding their
own against a stronger opposition than they met
in Sydney. Things, indeed, are quiet at the
Princess’s, and the novelty of Mrs. Brown-P. ap-
pears to have worn off. Next Saturday she is to
breakout as Juliet, in dresses by Worth (of Paris),
out the possibility of a boom resulting remains
open to grave doubt in the meantime.
** * *
“ Flying Scud’’ shakes his moth-eaten mane,
—which ought to be plaited for the Derby, by the
way—to decent audiences at the good old Royal.
Some of the first-night absurdities hav.e been
amended, and instead of one unmistakable cab-
dragger impersonating Waterspout and The Scud,
they now introduce a second emu, which bears
not the slightest resemblance to its alleged counter
part, except about the hoofs. Nat Gosling im
proves on acquaintance, but the dance of plum]
girl-jockeys is generally regarded as a hopples
attempt to impose upon the credulity of a race
going community. Probably “Flying Scud” wil
have to be withdrawn at the end of the week ii
favour of another hair-raising drama, but the
change was not definitely decided upon at tin
time of writing.
* * *
Changes at the other houses are promised
At the Alexandra (where Frank Thornton u
now taking a last sad adieu of his exhauster
popularity), Bland Holt starts a three months
season with “Master and Man,” a strong drama
which has already administered a shock to holy
Adelaide. Also, on Saturday next, the Opera
House, where Nellie Stewart has beaten all records
for 14 weeks past, is to renounce comic opera for
the evergreen story of the good young man whose
wooing of the good young woman is interceptor
by a large villain, until such time as this inhumai
monster is arrested for a crime committed in the
first act, or gets triumphantly wiped out by a
secondary villain, whose one object is to make
some reparation for a misspent past before dying
to slow music. In a word, William Rignold will
take up the running for a bit, “Now-a-Days ’
being the opening bill. Nigger minstrelsy, of an
aggravated character, 'limps along at the Victoria
Hall, and a number of sober-minded side-shows
flourish as usual.
** * #
The Phonograph, after a tame trial-trip at
the Athenaeum, has found a congenial home at the
Waxworks. In its present stage of development
the Phonograph is an honest, definite promise of
something much better that has yet to come. As
ai show it falls short of expectation, in so far that
the noise dropped through one funnel, comes out
at another in caricature. A banjo solo from the
Phonograph, for instance, might be a symphony on
the jews'-harp, and Gladstones message to Lord
Ganngton—even when heard direct from the re-
ceivers, instead of through the big public speaking
trumpet--might be the well-turned and accurately-
tuned sentences of a raven. Oddly enough,
the machine does most justice to compound
sounds. A whole brass-band effect blown into a
huge funnel on Manhattan Island, and a duet
between piano and clarionet, arc much more
melodious in their reproduction than a cornet solo,
or a song. _ George Rignold percolates through
the tunnel like a cracked voice from the tomb, yet
a burst of applause, given at the termination of a
performance in Edison’s own laboratory, comes
orth like a distant echo of the real original tumult.
Another obvious fact is that the first, or proof,
impressions of a phonogram are the best, and
it a man wants words of love from his girl
at a distance, he must get them hot off the
cylinder. The oftener they are ground out
™ ore inhuman they will become. Still
. ie Phonograph is an interesting instrument,
m appearance reminding one of a cross between a
small sewing-machine and a galvanic battery, and
i is doubtless destined to reproduce voices as recog-
nisable as those heard through a telephone when
onditions are favourable. The present entertain-
ment has the assistance of an intelligent lecturer,
who, however, claims for the instrument several
business possibilities which will scarcely recom-
end themselves to the world of commerce. Very
cw business men would be equal to talking an
important business letter of SCOO or 10,000 words
mto a phonograph. When they had done it they
oum be obliged to grind out the correspondence
yule somebody took a copy for reference, and
len, presuming the cylinder were sent off to Eng-
a, 1 the man on the other side would have to
take another copy for reference, after which he
wouldn t want the cylinder any more.
As with “ Paul Jones ”so with “ Boc-
cacio,” the backbone is music-hall-cwm-pantornime
clowning. Snazelle and Gourlay are drunk and
hold animated and inebriated converse, frequently
interrupted by Snazelle’s “You don’t mind my
taking that octopus off your nose, do you ?” or
‘‘Allow me to remove that wallaby from your
lip,” “ Wait till I stoueh that kangaroo on your
eye-lid.” fach imaginary animal he drops on the
floor, and scrunches with his hoof beetle-wise.
“ Ain’t it sick'nin’?” yet the house laughs hugely
till underlinen shoulder-straps get shifted from
beneath the muslin, and hang-adown fair arms.
*H * *
The, mariners bold, in “Paul Jones,” be-
came such popular idols that the Melbourne gal-
lery boys used to throw vegetables at them. One
night a bunch of turnips caught Leitoh fair in the
pit of the stomach, nearly killing that revered
‘ ‘ Insect” on the spot. The thrower was discovered,
but he repudiated the suggestion of having- cast
his turnips With malice prepense, and the manage-
ment saw no reason to doubt that the poor Insect
was suffering from an attack of fresh young enthu ■
siasm at 2d. a bunch.
* * »
When “ The Flying Scud” was first pro-
duced, that remarkable horse was supposed to
have an own brother of the same age as himself.
Boucicault thought that mares threw litters of
young.
* * *■
Sullivan has offered Amy Sherwin, of
“ Ours,” a three years’ engagement at the Savoy
to play leading parts in “ Gondoliers,” “ Ivanhoe,”
etc. Lying about on the stage, face downwards,
with clinging drapery on, and kicking her heels
while she warbles rippling melodies and the hero
plays a kissing accompaniment on both her cheeks.
That’s what our Amy’s new billet —if she jumps
at it —will mean.
** * *
A New York writer remarks that the ideal
of manly attractiveness which obtains in a city is
to be found by a careful study of the popular
actors. When an actor enjoys a sudden vogue,
when the matinees are packed with women eating-
caramels, when his pictures sell like hot cakes, be
sure that he represents the ideal of the maiden
dreams of unmarried New York. It is rather
humiliating to have to admit that Kyrle Bellew
still heads the list there. Though he has not been
in the city for a long time, bis memory is yet
green in the matinee-girl’s heart. Women adore
that love-lorn, languishing young man, in his
curly-brimmed hat and his turn-down collar. He
is the most popular actor among the sex since
Montague died. Advertise him for a matinee,
every seat goes, and boarding-school misses crowd
the aisles and sit on the railings. Then, when he
appears, thousands of lovely eyes are fixed on him,
and not a caramel is touched till he retires. A.
boarder at one of the swell young ladies’ boarding-
schools once told me She had thirty-six different
pictures of him in her room at home. When he
was" acting at Wallack’s, they had quite a diffi-
culty about the women who crowded round-the
stage-door to see the hero step into his coupe.
There was no way of dispersing them, and they
seriously impeded the traffic on the trottoir.
Coming up that way of a Saturday afternoon, you
could not but notice them, standing in a compact
mass about the door on the side-street. They
were the strangest lot some withered old maids,
yellow and sere and scrawny, with patched elbows
and old-fashioned mantles; half-a-dozen girls, in
their early teens, well-dressed and pretty, each
giving the other countenance and all giggling
with nervous delight; a quantity of older girls
of the saleslady variety, bent upon seeing their
idol, serious and gravely anticipant; a few small
young ladies, looking rather guilty and ashamed
of themselves ; and, on the outskirts, a fringe of
loungers, women pausing to see what- the excite-
ment was, men stopping to have a look at this re-
doubtable charmer. When the hero appeared
there was dead silence. With a charming smile
and a courtly bow, lifting his remarkably-shaped,
tall hat from his iron-grey curls, he passed between
the ranks of his adorers, stepped into his coupe,
and was whirled off. This was what some of them
had waited an hour to see, and those upon whom
his eyes had rested in passing went home enrap-
tured and dazzled as though Phoebus, the sun-god,
had smiled upon them.
** * *
Herbert Flemming’s Melbourne “ ben.”
was a big. success. All the “ boys and girls ”
who participated worked with the utmost en-
thusiasm. The “ boys ” entertained him at a
beef-steak-supper at the U.S. hotel after the
performance was over, when George Darrell took
the chair. The “girls” were cruelly excluded,
and the fun, which was fast and furious, lasted
till daylight.
At Poverty Point.
Tlie latest stupidity is a scheme for an Eiffel Tower in
Melbourne, the plans being already exhibited in Collins-
street.
A Melbourne critic writes that Boucicault invented the
railway sensation, in “ After Dark,” whereas he stole it
from Augustin Daly’s “ Under the Gaslight,” and never
invented anything good in all his life, except young Dion
—and sister Nina.
Kreitmayer, Melbourne Waxworks, has struck a bonanza
with'thrce of those wondrous pigmy savages, the South
African bushraen—father, mother, and son, assorted. The
father is guaranteed 98 years of age.
•John Maddison Morton, author of “Box and Cox,” died
recently in destitution at St. Bartholomew’s Hospital,
London.
Charles Kean during his later years never read news-
paper criticisms. “He knew what they would say—‘ That
he was not as young as he was, and that his wife was too
fat for acting.’”
A Parisian actor of celebrity has passed the military
examination for lieutenant, but has been rejected because
of his profession. The French have an eye to the unities
of thedramaof life. Sydney doesn’t worship its “Lancers.”
Why ? Because they look too much like spear-armed
stage-supers.
The doctor who got into trouble over the dissection of
Irving Bishop’s still-living body is going to be married to
Miss Armour, daughter of Chicago’s chief cow-canner.
The bridegroom’s name is Fergson. He started life as a
shoemaker, then became a hospital wardsman, and finally
a doctor. And now the disseOting-knife is going to marry
tinned meat.
Sara Bernhardt’s present trouble is “ housemaid’s
knee,” caused by constant kneeling in “ Joan of Arc.” A
side-light is thrown on Sara’s private habits by the cable
(since contradicted) that she has narrowly escaped death
after taking 100 grains of chloral at one dose.
Alfred Cellier is collaborating with W. S. Gilbert in a
comic opera for the Lyric Theatre. Geraldine Ulmar will
play the heroine.
Sims Reeves has put off his final farewell for a while
longer. Ho will probably retire from the concert plat-
form on his hundredth birthday.
No bald-headed man who sits in the front row of the
stalls is a hero to the ballet.
Myra Kemble was offered the position of “ leading lady”
at London Royalty; but as it was stipulated that she
should sign for twelve months, the proposal fell through,
and she leaves for Australia with her devoted husband,
James White.
Richard Proctor, the departed astronomer, was piously
prevented by Premier Parkes from delivering scientific
lectures on Sundays. The wicked Proctor being dead,
Parkes has become lax. A law is now to be unrebukedly
(by Parkes) passed to legalise Sunday concerts.
’Awk Moore says that Pinero's “Cabinet Minister” is
the best play produced during his lifetime.
It has been reported for some time that the Langtrys
arc reconciled, but now it is said that Mrs. L. amuses her-
self, and the young bloods and battered rakes who have
gathered round her, by running sprint races, after mid-
night suppers, in St. James’ Square.
We hear that Messrs. Villoval, Poiissard, Kowalski, and
other well-known artistes, are about to give a testimonial-
concert to Mrs. Geo. C. Miln, who, having convalesced, is
about to join her husband at Hobart.
Bessie Bell wood, pal of “ Uncle Kim.,” the present
Duke of Manchester, is, it appears, the wife of one John
Nicholson—who lias our sympathy—but as she has not
publicly acknowledged him, she is not entitled to cover-
ture. She was committed to Holloway recently on the
application of a solicitor to whom she owed £B, and who
said that as she always drew her salaries—amounting to
£4O weekly—in advance they could not be attached.
The three performing bears honoured by Queen Vic-
toria’s notice (she always doted on “ bares,”kilts for men,
low bodices for women) thus promoted from the gutters
to the stage, now 'earn for their five lazy owners £45
weekly at the Aquarium and Oxford Music Halls. Royal
appreciation sanctifies, for most people, the veriest rot,
the most barbarous and evil-smelling things.
The Dan Barry Dramatic 00. is travelling in Western
Victoria. The daughter of a Collins-street doctor, a pupil
of the late William Hoskins, has joined them.
It was Marie Burton, not Marian, who was originally in
W. S. Lyster’s opera chorus. Her last Melbourne appear-
ance was as Buttercup.
May Holt’s company, with Pairbairn in management,
has opened to good business at Brisbane Opera House in
“ Every Man for Himself,” a play composed by Bland’s
sister, who is cast for. Dan the Wide-awake. Rosa
Towers, Edward Holloway, Gerald Moore, and others are
with the company.
Johann Strauss is said to have stated that, though his
family have been writing dance-music for three genera-
tions, not one of them could dance a step. That’s nothing;
we know several families who have owned newspapers
under equally lengthy conditions, and not one of them
can write a grammatical paragraph.
Hypnotist Kennedy was hissed at the London Lyric
Club, where he was performing as a guest.
Prom newspapers received we learn that the Silbon-
Sfcirks are highly popular at the Alcantara Theatre, Rio de
Janeiro.
Here’s a show for the colonial manager. Watts-Phillips’
play, “ Marlborough,” the property of John Coleman, has
never been produced.
Schneider, the original Grand Duchess, is living very
quietly in one of the poorer Parisian suburbs. Her
favourite occupation is growing cabbages.
Sydney Academy of Music is being rebuilt on a greatly
enlarged and improved scale. It will be named “The
Princess.” The theatre about to be erected next Thomas’s
Coffee Palace will he called “ The Bijou.” What poverty
of intellect ! Can no original names be found? It’s Ilk
the gabblings of a parrot.
Miss Coffin, Kyrle Bellew’s admirer, when released from
the lunatic asylum, will, it is said, follow himhere. Kyrle
would prefer this arrival of his Coffin somewhat delayed.
Miss Defries, daughter of the leading member of a big
firm, of chandelier merchants in London, is said to be the
first amateur pianiste in London. She belongs to a
talented family : the memory of a Sydney relative’s
Hamlet will never die.
Apropos to the disclosure by an editor of the name of
the writer of any obnoxious article, Clement Scott writes
of the late James Mortimer, once editor of Figaro ;
“Mr. Mortimer was publicly hissed and execrated for
years by the pit in all places of public amusement for
words that I myself had written, and he sternly refused
to allow me to put him right with the public. He was
responsible, he said, and he did not intend to fling any of
his staff into the jaws of the howling mob. Such nobility
of conduct is very rare, and it lias never been forgotten
by me.”
Col. Wellesley, the divorced husband of Gov. Loftus’
daughter, and now the husband of ballerina Kate Vaughan,
is insolvent.
A Mr. Maokaveney, of Geelong (Vic.), has taken the
degree of Bachelor of Music, at Dublin University.
Which reminds us that J. E. Kitts, of the Lyster Opera
Troupe of very pleasant memory, went to London, after
the disbandment of that company, and applied at Covent
Garden tor an engagement. Quoth the Impressario:
“To what Conservatory of Music do you belong, Mr.
Kitts ? ” This was a bit of a staggerer for the colonial,
but he promptly replied : “ To the Oonservatorio di Gee-
longia ” As the ignorant Impressario never heard of the
Conservatorio di Geelongia James was not engaged.
Madame Patey, perhaps the finest contralto in the
world, will shortly visit Australia in company with Signor
Poli, under engagement, it is said, to Churchill Otton,
who is drawing the lion’s share of the Hall 6 profits. The
Melbourne season alone is said to have netted Mr. Otton
far over £lO5O. On the best night there was £538 in the
house.
Doctor Louis Engel, musical critic of the London
World, has been convicted of seducing a young lady
pupil of his named Knight, and has been ordered to pay
£2OOO damages. He “ cleared” to Germany, and did not
appear to defend the suit, the evidence in which, if true,
proved him to be a cruel and cold-blooded old scoundrel.
Having drugged and ruined the unhappy girl, whose old
father, an ex-naval officer, was at the time on a sick bed
and soon died of grief, he treated her with the greatest
contumely.
Rev. Charles Clark, after attracting crowded audiences
at the Adelaide Town Hall, found a veritable Tom Tiddler’s
ground at Broken Hill, where he and the Much-Travelled
levied very heavy duties on the silver-miners. When
Clark had finished, Smythe brought up Santley, that
nothing might be lost. The singing-bird proved as popu-
lar as the talking-bird ; and both "left the Barrier with
sacks full of gold and silver. Clark comes on to Sydney,
where he opens at the School of Arts sometime about the
middle of July. Santley remains in Melbourne to defend
the false-imprisonment action brought against him by ins
former agent, Price.
Miss Van Tassel made a balloon ascent in Townsville
(Q.) on a Sunday recently, which was witnessed by some
thousands of people, including about 500 officers and men
of the defence force then in camp there. The Rev. James
Stewart attended, and denounced the gathering as a dis-
grace to Queensland, and made a special protest against
the defence force assisting in the desecration of the Sab-
bath, and the cry lias since been taken up by a number of
Northern papers, who comment severely on the fact that
the “defenders ” were there—albeit the expense of their ad-
mission was paid by their officers—and that just as Miss
Van Tassel was about to commence her serial flight Major
Des Voeux, from a kneeling position, rendered necessary
by the aggressiveness of spectators at the rear, presented
her with a choice bouquet of flowers. Now, if balloon
and parachute shows be allowable on Saturday, no one
should interfere with them on Sunday. Despite the
utterances of Sabbatarians, the liberalising of Sunday can
never result in the lengthening of the hours of labour
while the people have any power. Since writing, we learn
that the Colonial Secretary (Q.) has interdicted Sunday
ballooning.
Herbert Flemming put up Edith Blande as Juliet for bis
complimentary matinee. Rather a large order—reminds
one of gloves at large fourteens. Shakespeare says Juliet
was fourteen, quite an Australian girl. Edith looks care-
fully to the legs of the balcony, though she’s not quite the
weight of the gal at the Waxworks.
“The living skeleton ”, is now on exhibition in Mel-
bourne. He was, it is said, bitten by a snake some time
ago, and has since wasted away until he is fit for nothing
but exhibition to the intelligent and refined public at six-
pence per head.
Sara Bernhardt went into an American book-store and
bought “ quite a bill of books.” Then, quick as a flash,
she took up a volume of one of the very best sets of Scott
in the store, bound in tree calf, opened it to the title,
wrote something on it, calmly tore out the leaf, handed it
to the shopman, smiled, and went out. On looting at
the leaf the attendant saw that she had written a pass for
two to her performance that evening ! But she hart done
it at the cost of ruining one of the best sets of books in
the store.
Coppin writes to the papers in contradiction of tire
statement that Mr. and Mrs. Cameron, the actors, were
the parents of Mrs. Chas. Young, now Mis. Hermann
Vesuri. She was the daughter of Mrs. Jones, in Tasmania,
and her marriage with Charley Young was a stolen one,
when she was only 15 years old. When the Youngs went
to London they both got into good engagements at once,
Mrs. Young supporting Sothern at the Haymarket, in
“ Our American Cousin,” and Charley appearing as a bur-
lesque actor, in “Lucrezia Borgia,” “Dido,” &c.
Johnny Gourlay has a satin bill of his father’s perform-
ances in Glasgow in 1865, with himself announced as the
“Little Wonder.” Old Gourlay was a great Scotch
favourite, and so was Mrs. Gourlay (Johnny’s mother),
wherefore the bill exhibits the patronage of Sir A. Alison,
the historian, Provost of Glasgow, and so on. Gourlay
comes before the public more than ever in Melbourne
opera bouffe season. Clever, little, spry sprig. Works
well with the telescopieally-long Snazelle, who has dinged
his dry entertainment. Apropos to tire Gourlays, the fol-
lowing' announcement is from a Sydney paper June 2,
1890, at St. Andrew’s Cathedral, Sydney, by the Rev.
Rivers, Herbert William Borroughes, son of William
Henry Borroughes, of London, to Amy Eva, youngest
daughter of John Gourlay, late of Glasgow, Scotland.
Modern Society says that Elsie Hail, of Sydney, “is a
clever child, but not by any means a prodigy.” A Ger-
man professor, by the way, wickedly defines prodigy as a
child of two years who has not yet learned to play the
piano.
Sydney News doesn’t think much of Neruda’s violin :
“ It is said to be a genuine Stradiuarius (sic,), and it may
be one ; but, if it is, it certainly is not one of the old
Cremoncse makers’ best instruments. Has it in the course
of its long life, and transit perhaps through many hands,
been ‘scraped?’” Now, Alfred, what sort of violin do
they affect at the pig-ranche ?
Governor Oarington was 47 on May IGbh.
In her continental tours incognita, Queen
Victoria now calls herself “The Lady Justice
Mercy !”
It amuses us to see t: Our London Corres-
pondent” steal his “letter” out of Modern
Society.
Certain fancy loaves now sold in Sydney
are called “ Caringtons.” They are infernally
expensive and very short in weight.
At date of writing it would appear that
the re-election of Mr. Hawthorne, whose Balmain
seat has become vacant through his bankruptcy,
will be opposed by John Norton in the Protection-
ist interest.
Several members of the jury by whom
Reseigh Martin was convicted of libelling Com-
missioner Eddy state that they had no idea that
so startling a sentence would be imposed on
defendant. “We took three months to be the
very outside,” they say. By the way, Martin’s
wife and children are absolutely penniless.
CORRESPONDENCE
“A. Morcombe” ; The enormous number of ap-
plications for work on the Victorian railways doesn’t
mean that all the applicants are out of work. In many
instances it merely signifies that people want that regu-
larity and certainty of employment which is only asso-
ciated with Government billets, and that they are willing
to throw up employments the continuance of which is de.
pendent on the whim of a single individual. As to Mr.
Jowett’s statement that 2000 men applied for the driver-
ship of a tradesman’s cart, it is simply flam on the face of
it “ Marsupial” : We don’t remember them. The
kangaroo yarn old and widely-circulated “ W.S.” ;
Every man who makes another wear a livery, or a
uniform, helps the degradation of the human race. ..
“G.C.J.”: To hand “ An Old Subscriber”: The man
who gets the municipal vote has to pay the rates....
“Marco”: We suppose he is, but in the Daily News
about six years ago Archibald Forbes, we remember, ridi-
culed his claim to the title of “Brigadier-General.”...
“H.E.P.M.”: Will tell you next week.... “J. Gourlay’’
(S. Melb.): Mr. Drake’s verses are very good, hut as they
have already been locally circulated we can hardly re-
print them “ An Admirer of Stanley ” : A man is glad
to read anything in the wilderness—whether it's The
Bulletin, or the Evening News, or Secretary Knapp’s
letters on the evils of drink “ A.L.E.” ; Twelve
shillings in the pound is the current . offer to
Premier Permanent depositors, shareholders nix...,
“E. A. MTntyre”; Unless the Sydney ’bus drivers do
associate on trades-union principles, they will rue it
bitterly one day sooner or later. All labour must he
associated or it will fall an easy prey to capital,.., “ Mad
Mick” (Oondobolin): Will duly deal with “ R.S.S.”
(Melb ): We like you too much to take a “ rise ” out of
you. Don’t you write any more such rhymes for publica-
tion “Sarah T.” (Vic.): Held for consideration
“M..J.C.” (Irvinehank, N.Q.): Thanks, hut it would, we
presume, he only of local interest. .. “Mildura”; Next
week.. .“B. E. Quoit”; Well put. We may publish a
condensation of your letter “A. Menkel ”; The
man who libels another man doesn’t necessarily
steal his character. He only necessarily tries to
“ Laura” (Melbourne) : Smart, but too “steep.” Why
not send something more level-headed?, . “G.K.J.” (Tin-
taldra) : Bad handwriting runs in your family, but we’ll
ivade through it to the bitter end “ E.R.11.” : To hand.
“ Waraane ” : Bucolic remonstrance duly handed to Hop-
kins James A.S.” : Received..“ Ichabod”: To hand..
“ Candida et C.”: Will contemplate “W.H.L.”: Sorry
to say still not available, although “ It is Better” is ever
so much nearer the mark. .. “H.L.E.”: Very good.
Handed to artist W. Bradbury ”: Well, if Captain
Neitenstein’s training-ship has been a failure with respect
to those lads, what sort of a failure will gaol be, do you
think? “ Old Subscriber” (Gnnnedah); The old story
—“ Make friends to yourself of the mammon of un-
righteousness.” “ Wilenspiegel ” : Write to Mr.
James MacMahon, Princess Theatre, Melbourne, and
say we told you to do so. By the way, the
ballet has limbs but no “ branches.” Mr. Solomon
is not, wo think, managing a theatre just now
“ Pro Bono Publico What you say about the American
pigeon-shot may or may not be justifiable, but sucli^a
windy tirade could have no interest for our readers
“ G.W.”: (St. Leonards); Have already seen the Chris-
tian Socialist. Glad you like it “New Faria”
(Brisbane): Will read aqd consider. [Many letters held
over.


Everybody now-a-days drinks Wolfe’s Schnapps.
The Professional and Literary men of London
give their preference to Esteubkook’s “ Relief ”
Pen. It is a swift and easy writer, and preserves
the characteristics of the hand. Samples free at
all Stationers.
Wolfe’s Schnapps will make you a new man.
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
Many in and out of the city will be pleased to
Know that Ckeelman and Co., photographers in
the Sydney Arcade, have reduced their charges
for photographs. Cabinets now 15s. per dozen.
Wolfe’s Schnapps—a mild stimulant.
The original genuine article Wolfe’s Schnapps.
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
Chahlemont and Co., high art photographers,
Royal Arcade,, altogether owe their measure of
success to the fact that the merits of their photo-
graphy arc always of a high order.
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
Ladies’ Silver Watches, 355. Baums & Co., King-street
Arcade.
Write for plans £lO Building sites, Perth,
Western Australia. Intercolonial Investment
Company, Limited, 90 IJathurst-strcct, Sydney.
An exhilarating cordial is Wolfe’s Schnapps.
Ladies’ Silver Watches, 355. Dailms & Co., King-street
Arcade.
Use Batho's Baking Powder.
Wolfe’s Schnapps—the ladies appreciate it.
m
Watches and Jewellery arc like good wives—they are
worth having-,
ii.d for Illustrated Price List. Post. Free.
Bx;s GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
(Nearly opposite Railway Station).
Factories: Liviuirooi, and London, England.
£2 10s. English Lever, Two Years’Guaranteed.
£3 10s. English Lever, “The Unequalled, 1 ’ full cap.
£4 English Lover, “ Tl to Special,” compensated.
20/- The Unequalled Keyless Watch. 20/-
Country Residents and Visitors to Sydney call or send
to A. SAUNDERS, 813 George Street (nearly opposite
Railway Station), SYDNEY.
Roundabout.
That mysterious person who insures his
life for a large amount and then leaves his hat and
boots on the edge of the sad sea waves while his
relatives try to collect the policy has been very
numerous of late, and also very unfortunate.
His career always ends much the same way.
Somebody goes out and fishes in a listless way for
his corpse and doesn’t get a bite, and then the
weeping widow applies for the insurance-money,
and the company says it won’t pay, and the widow
says it has got to pay, and the company says it
will blaze in Gehenna first, and then a policeman
finds the deceased in London and brings him back.
Generally he says it isn’t him, but it always
proves to be him after all. Evidently the whole
system of mysterious disappearance wants to be
revised, for a hat on the sea-shore is no longer re-
garded as sufficient evidence. If it were possible,
by way of corroborative testimony, to borrow a
dead friend and dress him up in the clothes of the
insured, and put a despondent letter in his pocket
setting forth that he is tired of existence, and
then drop this collateral proof in the sea about two
miles from land where it is likely to be discovered
after the salt-water has’soaked most of the fea-
tures off, it would improve the chances consider-
ably, but nobody seems to think of this plain
and obvious device. Or if the lamented person
with the policy were last seen hollering for help
on the seventh story of a burning building where
nobody could get at him, and he could then make
his escape by a secret staircase and a subterranean
passage, after throwing a few human.bones—-not
his own—among the debris, the result would seem
reasonably conclusive. Again, some good effects
might be arrived at if the unhappy victim disap-
peared off a ship the day before she reached land,
and if he had a friend with him to take him ashore
secretly in a large trunk and to make an affidavit
that he saw his feet vanishing ov.er the bulwarks
at midnight when nobody was about, we see no
reason why the proceedings should not close satis-
factorily. In cases where no friend is available it
might be advisable to pull out to sea some calm,
dark night, and scream wildly for help just as a
steamer is passing, and the capsized boat and the
old, invariable hat on the shore might possibly get
through by the aid of this additional evidence even
in cases where these bald and unconvincing
utensils would fail, by themselves, to produce the
desired result. Where the insurance amounts
to say, £lO,OOO or more, it might even be
worth while for the defunct one to be last seen
drifting out over the broad ocean in a balloon
which would afterwards be found floating empty
on the waters by the astonished sailors of a passing
ship. A reliable witness could see him driven
helplessly away from the land and testify to that
effect. Of course the lost adventurer would have
parachuted on the shore and left the balloon to
depart by itself, but this need not be entered into.
The reliable witness could easily be hired for £2OO,
and for an additional £5O could phonograph the
despairing shrieks of the doomed navigat r. If
he could weep at the inquest he might receive a
further consideration, unless he was willing to
weep merely in his private capacity, and as a
friend. Again, if the insured’s clothes and letters
cpuld be found beside the ashes of a fire in a wild
part of the country with signs of a struggle all
around and a few clean-picked bones, the chances
are that the policy would be paid and all the
natives in the district shot for cannibalism. In
fact the ways of arranging the matter are number-
less, and yet with all these unbounded resources
at command, the Australian keeps on leaving his
hat and boots on the sea-shore, and as a conse-
quence when his widow applies for the money the
manstger of the company simply gets mad at the
monotony of the old chestnut and throws her in-
dignantly into the street.
# » *
Winter has arrived, and the dreary monotony
of the citygrows drearierand more monotonous. An
aspect of second-hand desolation pervades the air, as
if the community had borrowed some one else’s left-
off misery or had stolen a threadbare wretchedness
which was not lawfully its own. It is at such a
time as this that the human soul is tilled with
dreams of rural happiness in some region where
the air is crisp and bracing instead of dull and
stagnant; and man longs to go out in the, woods,
and clasp the hog to his bosom, and commune with
Ids long-lost brother, the meditative ass, and study
the wild dog that blooms on the dog-rose tree, and
sample the butter from the local butterfly, and
pursue the cold, arrogant goat in the darksome
haunts where that carnivorous animal habitually
hangs out. He experiences a desire to rise early and
issue forth and get his feet wet in the dewy grass
and thereby contract a cold which will make him go
to bed and bark for three weeks, and hejias poetic
aspirations which call on him to seek’the loneli-
ness of Nature in the untrodden wilds, and there
fail over the torpid snake, and the small, green
bug which stands on the top of the local vegetable,
and the illiterate gohanna, and other evidences of
beneficent Providence. He suffers from a desire
to sing in some locality far removed from all traces
of an effete civilisation, and the chances are that
lie kills somebody with his humble melody, and
that a harmless stranger is crippled for life by the
mere sight of his hymn-book when he is getting
ready to start the first verse. We shed a hurried
tear in the waste-paper basket at this point, and
go forth to consume an outcast who is grinding a
poem on a hand-organ underneath the window.
* * *
Wo have paralysed the itinerant psalmist,
and a person who wanted an item inserted at
reduced rates has been given into custody on a
charge of insulting language and tearing our uni-
form, and the dream has faded away. We are
recalled to hard, dry fact by the sight of that
customary thrilling cablegram in the Herald,
which sets forth that somebody is “ massing troops
on the Austrian frontier,” and that burning in-
spiration which announces that Russia “ will con-
tinue to disregard the acts of the Skuptschina. ”
Also, we turn for relief to the exciting paragraph
in which the Town and Country Journal divulges
to its readers what is the best thing to be done
with a small, green parrot suffering from baldness,
or tells him how he ought to wash the head of the
fowl which is liable to fits and declines to lay the
expensive egg any longer. We like to read these
things, but still it is a relief to think that the agri-
cultural bore of the Journal may die some day,
and that the aggravating image who telegraphs that
Russia won’t take any notice of the SkuptsOhina
may meet him in another world, and that they
may jointly inhabit a ruined city in a desert where
800,000 skeletons, who used to read their contri-
butions, may flit restlessly round them and make
wild, crunching noises with their jaws close to the
ears of the deceased, and twirl their fleshleas
limbs in insane calisthenics in their vicinity, and
flap their old, bleached bones in unholy mirth,
while a spook with a cracked voice sings a melody
which consists of a whole issue of the Herald set
to the time that the old cow died of, with varia-
tions which are calculated not only to kill the cow,
but to skin it as well. And there is a holy joy in
the idea that the old, exhausted nuisance who
states once a week that troops are being massed
on the Austrian frontier may ultimately join
them there, and that when he wants to go
to sleep, a spectral form in tights may gibber
and hoot through his keyhole, and that a
goblin with a feather stuck in his tail may come
and turn somersaults on his bedpost in company
with a brown-paper ghost and an afreet made of
old barrel-hoops, and that a shadowy thing built
of empty air may use uncivil language to him and
read him eight columns of Freetrade statistics
amid wild applause from a person who was hanged.
There is profound consolation in these reflections,
and as tliey drift through our mind we feel that
the balm still holds out in Gilead, and we mentally
echo the sublime language of that poet whose
name we forget at present, and whose exact words
we can't remember, but who died some time ago
under circumstances which have somehow slipped
our memory.
* # *
Joseph Symes’ happy family of Atheists
have started to insult and pound each other over
certain minute points of doctrine, from which we
gather that even an Atheist has doctrines of some
kind, at least he has enough to fight about. The
Secularists are unanimously agreed that there isn’t
a God, and that the earth is an accident, and most
of them are inclined to think that man was
originally a monkey hanging by his tail upon a
WHERE THE PAIN WAS.
JOCKEY (who has ridden favourite and been leaten, apologetically stoops down and feels his
horse’s fetlock) : “HE MUST HAVE STRAINED A TENDON, I THINK,
MR. MUGGINS."
MR. MUGGINS (who has hacked the jockey's horse and dropped his coin); “OH, HIS
FETLOCK AIN’T HURT. YOU FEEL HIS BLOOMIN’ JOR, THAT'S
WHERE THE PAIN IS.”
tree. _ Some of them think that he is a monkey
yet without the tail, and that that appendage has
been worn off by being sat down upon. Con-
sequently a few of the party consider, without in-
tending any disrespect thereby, that Mr. Symes is
a monkey. Mi*. Symes, we believe, declines to re-
gard himself in that light, and refuses to be con-
sidered as an animal whose national function is to
shin up a stump in search of nuts. Twenty ad-
vanced members of the party also call for the
establishment of some unbuilt city of Anarchy
where there will be no law, or Government,
or policemen, or other encumbrances, and where
nobody will do anything he doesn’t want to, and
everything will be abolished ; and the rest of the
party resolved to expel these members. The
Anarchists, thereupon, expelled Mr. Symes and all
the rest of the Secularists by taking possession of
the hall early one night, and locking the door.
The two parties regarded each other in a blood-
thirsty manner through the keyhole, and inter-
changed hurtful expressions and abusive language
by means of the crack under the door. They also
made faces at each other through the window.
The men inside urged the others to sit down in
the gutter and be calm, and the men outside gave
way to sinful passions. At last, about 2 a.m., the
excluded Atheists broke in through the roof, and
then the two parties banged each other about
with huge sticks ami handles of pickaxes, and
filled the hall with a whirlwind of violence,
and disabled infidel, and stunned and trodden-
on Anarchist ; and men who didn’t believe
in a resurrection tore the clothes off men who
didn’t accept the doctrine of original sin, and
the Materialist was partially strangled by the
person who said Moses was an impostor, and
the Agnostic was thrown down under the table,
and the latter-day Saddueee and the renegade
Unitarian went headlong into the coal-scuttle.
Finally the sincere Atheists turned the hose oil
the Anarchists, and then the police arrived and
tore the insane menagerie of unbelievers asunder,
and fired half the wild beast show into the street.
When the Christian starts fighting with somebody
who doesn’t believe what he does, ho presents a
holy spectacle, but for a really cheerful shindy
there is nothing to compare with the man who
says ho doesn’t believe in anything at all when ho
starts to massacre the man who won’t believe even
i:i him.
In the Boigti (New Guinea tribe) language,
the same word—“markai” —indicates “devil”
and “clergyman.”
Practice is better than precept, and one
case of Marshall’s Tonic Nervine is worth all the
teetotal lectures ever delivered.
Not to be baulked of a Png-anticipated
sensation, the New York electrical executioners
of Kemmler', the now respited murderer, secured
a calf, attached it to the fatal chair and the un-
fortunate calf promptly fell dead. It w.ai then
taken to a butcher’s,, dressed for food, and divided
amongst the turnkeys of the gaol where Kemmler
wasconfined. Kemmler, on hearing that his counsel
had succeeded in obtaining the indefinite postpone-
ment of his execution, made the sympathetic
remark, “Well, it is tough on the papers.”
An English paper styles Robert Louis
Stevenson’s poem—a moan for his separation from
Scotland, where East winds and Scotch mists make
his existence impossible—dated from the Isle of
Apemama, October, ’B9, and published in the
Scots’ Observer, “ without doubt the finest poem
ever penned in Southern waters.” _ Now, the
verses in question are very ordinary indeed, and
have nothing, either in Pea or workmanship, to
raise them above the ordinary litter of the prosaic
Poet’s Corner. By the way, as an evidence of the
jealousies of local papers, a Sydney daily quotes
•from Stevenson’s “open letter” to Dr. Hyde, of
Honolulu, which appeared in the Scots’ Observer
of May 3, but as it appeared in the Star (Sydney)
of about the same date, it must ha'e come under
the notice of the D.T. ere encountered in the
columns of the Scottish journal. Stevenson, it
seems, has a big appetite for bold advertisement —
he sent copies of that lamp-smelling production to
every journal, except The Bulletin, which
appears to have offended him by stating that his
extraordinary leanness ensured his safety among
the South Sea cannibals. So far as we know,
however, only the two papers spoken of tickled
his vanity by its insertion.
Writes a Tasmanian correspondent: —
“ At Launceston, the other day, the local
P.M. sentenced an inmate of the Invalid
Depot to ten days or ten shillings. As the
poor, old and blind fellow, who is, by-the-by,
113 years old, was penniless, he was walked
off to gaol. And this all for having absented
himself for a day from ‘he depot, where they
ye clothed, fed, etc. at a cost of 4jd. per
day.” This paralyser reminds us of a recently-
circulated story of a couple aged respectively lis
and 112 years met by an acquaintance on the
wharf at Hobart, en route for Melbourne. “ Why
are you leaving here ?” bawled he. “ Are you not
comfortable enough?” “Too comfortable,” said
the patriarch, “ the missis and I have lived Jong
enough, and as we can’t die in Tasmania, we’re
going to Melbourne.” Tasmanian people are evi-
dently not only a long-living and God fearing but
a highly imaginative people.
During 1889 the bibbers of Great Brit .iu
drank 275 millions of nobblers of mm only, besides
about 420 millions of nobblers of other kinds of
grog. This total represents 88 millions of pints,
or 11, millions of gallons of fire-fluid. Or —just
fancy you’re going to bathe in it—a lagoon of grog-
six miles square and a little over three feet deep
throughout!
“ Telomachus,” of the Arc us, speaks of
“Sandhurst, the quartz-mining hub of Australia,
where the boring-rods are going down, down,
down in fixed determination to find the gold, even
if it has to be pumped up molten from (lie
periphery of the central fire.” Here we have a
florid illustration of how a grand old Anglo-Saxon
word has, in deference to the refinement of Toorak,
to conceal its identity under a long-drawn-out
alias, at the bidding of descriptive journalism—
how the vital force of language becomes exhausted
during a long period of literary training on mis-
guided principles and sweet simplicity is ruthlessly
sacrificed in the interests of “copy.” What
“ Telemachus ” really wishes to imply is that they
mean getting the oof, even though they have to go
to blazes for it.
Edmund Yates writes regretfully of Toole s
father, the renowned toastmaster, and finds the
modern “ Charge yer glasses, gents ” swell a poor
substitute. He thinks a decayed actor, of the
heavy father and my ohe-i-ld school, ought to
make a good toastmaster.
Getting born costs the people of the
United States 225,000,000 dollars annually; get-
ting married, 300,000,000 dollars annually; get"
ting buried, 75,000,000 dollars ; getting drunk
costs the people of the United States more than
900,000,000 dollars annually.
The annual drawing of gifts among pur-
chasers of Robertson’s whisky—each case being
represented by a coupon—took place in Sydney
Masonic-hall on Monday, 23rd ult., when over £2OO
worth of prizes were given away. Several very
tasteful specimens of whisky package were on
show, and some “very fine old” was on tap;
accepting it as a sample, it does not
now seem surprising to us that the Robert-
sonian output for the year, independent of bulk
whisky, has exceeded 20,000 cases in spite of the
tremendous and increasing competition. The
proceedings were conducted and supervised by
Messrs. Chisholm and Shaw.
Dear Bulletin, — A bunyip has lately been
seen on the Richmond River by a party of six
men armed to the teeth who went out to look for
him. He is described as “ about as big as three
Newfoundland dogs, covered with hair and
feathers, makes a orful row on shore and big waves
when in the water; has three eyes, is half bird,
half beast, half dog.”. It has been locally sup-
posed that a bunyip has resided m Durgarubba
Swamp for years. He has neither been seen nor
heard lately, and it is believed that the late floods
shifted him out on to the beach. It is firmly be-
lieved by the populace that the Government offer
a reward of £2OOO for the first bunyip taken —dead
or alive All this is a scathing commentary on the
boasted N.S.W. Heducation Hact.
Woman.
Eight hours work, eight hours sleep, eight hours
play, that is the cry of the mechanic of to-day.
We, however, have no sympathy with such cries—
we do not believe in men who want to work only
eight hours and keep their butchers, bakers,
grocers, chemists, and even wives at work from
twelve to sixteen hours daily. Wives lives now-a-
days are too frequently lives of drudgery ; up at
5 a.m. to get the husband’s breakfast, then
children to'wash and despatch to school, then
dinner to prepare, and so on till ten at night, one
continual round of work, wash and worry. Is it
any wonder that they are prone to early decay and
premature physical decline? It is to be expected
that they would be specially susceptible to anmaeia,
indigestion, liver complaints and headaches. Their
mode of life and long hours indoors is almost sure
to induce such diseases. On account of the duties
nature has imposed upon the fair sex, great
care should be taken of their physical health,
and on the first approach of weakness or de-
bility of any kind, a course of Clements
Tonic should bo taken. For female com-
plaints Clements Tonic is a specific, it regulates
the several functions of the organs of importance,
it strengthens the blood, nerves, heart, and brain.
It fortifies the system against disease by enriching
the blood with its natural constituents to repair
the waste and loss sustained through the various
changes of condition the female life experiences.
Clements Tonic should be taken at all critical
times; as it contains the material essential to the
female physical organism, it must be effective.
Of this there is no doubt. Mrs. E. G. McCarthy,
West Maitland, N.S.W., writes : —“August 19th,
1889. Dear Mr. Clements, —I address you thus
familiarly because I consider you a brother and a
friend, although I never met you. I have suffered
excruciating agony from nervous toothache for
years on and off, and could get no relief. I had
seven teeth extracted (what a wrench those
dentists give us !) one after the other, but as
soon as one was out the pain passed to another.
I was given one of your ‘ Medical Guides,’and
there read your theory that toothache is often
a symptom of anaemia, and I had other signs
which I found you mentioned as being the effects
of anaemic conditions. I also read of your boast
of the wonderful effects of Clements Tonic ; I
was sceptical, smiled and disbelieved, but thought
a trial would do no harm, so sent for some, and in
two days—oh ! joy—the pain was gone. I con-
tinued the Tonic, and am cui’ed at last. I never
expected to be, but am grateful enough to you,
and you may use this if worth your while.” And
Airs. Whalley describes her case in these words :
“ Wagga Wagga, N.S.W., Jan. 12, 1889. Your
wonderful Tonic has done me more good than
years of doctor’s treatment, and has restored me
to perfect health. For years I suffered from
nervous debility and its usual string of accompany-
ing ailments—sometimes I would bo despondent
and melancholy, at others would have torturing
neuralgia or nervous headaches; sometimes I would
be quite worn out, tired and weak, and unable to
work. I awoke in the morning with tired, aching
limbs, swollen feeling in the eyes as if they would
burst, sometimes headache and frequent nausea
and vomiting of mucous-like green matter, and
various unpleasant symptoms. Although preju-
diced against proprietary medicines, I determined
to try Clements Tonic and Dr. Fletcher’s Pills ;
I took two pills every alternative night and a
tablespoonful of Tonic an hour before each meal-
time, and in three days I began to improve and am
now quite well. I took seven large bottles of
Tonic and two boxes of pills ; my constipation is
quite cured and I feel stronger and healthier than
ever before.” Further evidence can be adduced
to the above, which, we think, is conclusive.


i^iixrcs-iMCAiNr’s
“ELECTRIC” SOAP
IS THE
Greatest Labour Saver
OF THE AGE.
The wash done in half the time, and
. better, by its use.
Wolfe’s Schnapps should be in every house.
Old-fashioned Jewellery modernised to perfection. De-
signs free. Daiims and Co., King street Arcade.
Advise your friends to drink Wolfe’s Schnapps.
Ayer’s Cathartic Pills are suited to every age"
They are mild and pleasant in action, thorough
and searching in effect, and, being sugar-coated,
are easy to take. These Pills never fail to give
satisfaction.
BUGGIES, BUCKBOAEDS,
—AKD—
VICTORIAS,
At MANUFACTUIIEHS’ PiIICES.
Send for Catalogues and Prices to
THE F. B. WHEELER CO.,
265 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
Personal Items.
Sir Daniel Cooper lately sold his collection
of postage-stamps for £3OOO.
An ex-Victorian newspaper proprietor ha
come in for a Scotch baronetcy.
What has become of Henniker-Heaton’s
threatened statue of Henry Kendall ?
Jawbone Neild has declared himself insol
vent. If words were only sovereigns !
Gunn, the great English batsman, who
made 228 against Australia, stands Oft. Sin.
The Anglican Dean of Melbourne has
just recovered from a long illness. The Dean is 92
Mr. W. Real, formerly of Barcaldine, sue
ceeds Thadeus O’Kane as editor of the Northern
Miner.
Mrs. Lockett, of N.S.W., writes a Con
servative article in the May Westminster Review
on divorce.
Sir Robert Stout (N.Z.) commenced life
as a pupil-teacher in a parish school in the Shet
land Isles.
Mirams’ well-known ample beard has
turned quite white under the troubles of the two
last years.
The crest adopted by Baronet Clarke is—
Signum queerens in relieve ” (“ Seeking the sign in
the wool.”).
Henniker Heaton is drawing attention to
the formation of a Scotch-Governor “ring” ii
Australasia.
P. A. C. O’Farrell has turned up again—
this time in an action against the Age for dubbing
him “ an assassin.”
Michael Davitt, who was in prison witl
the Tichborne Claimant, inclines to a belief in the
latter’s pretensions.
William Field, of Enfield, Tasmania
owner of Strop and other famous old-time horses
has just died, aged 76.
The Premier Permanent Bench includes
half-a-dozen magistrates who never appear there
on any other occasion.
Grease, of New Zealand, now has on his
card, “ The Hon. Dr. Grace, M.D., F.R.C.S.
C.M.G., M.L.C., C.H.R.E.”
J. H. Howe (Commissioner of Crown
Lands, S.A.) was, like Speaker Coles, at one time
a trooper in South Australia.
John Burns, though only 32, is already
grey, and looks 40. His hat is like that of a coal-
porter, and cost two shillings.
Rev. Dr. Bevan says he is “ the greatest
Radical in Australia 1” No wonder. He gets £3O
a week for preaching the Gospel.
A certain prominent member of the
N.S.W. Legislature at one time lived by playing a
concertina on country racecourses.
Out of the four persons concerned in pub-
lishing the Times forgeries, three are already deac
(Maguire, Macdonald and Pigott).
In the (Rev.) Gardiner divorce-case the
issues are marriage and adultery with “some per-
son ” whose name is not mentioned.
The latest Imperial dodge is to knight
colonial newspaper editors. Sir William Curnow
and Sir Frederick Haddon will sound well.
Postmaster-General O’Connor has decided
that the Sydney Post-office carvings must go.
Dan is an authority, too, on carving- pork.
Kingston, ex-Attorney-General of S.A., is
a sergeant in the local militia. He won’t take
any higher position, preferring to remain in the
ranks.
Viscount “ Beerthirst’s ” liabilities are
£25,139. He deposed that his income had been
lately £BOO a year, while his expenditure was
£3OOO.
Dr. Neild, the well-known dramatic critic
at Melbourne, is 66 years of age, for 36 of which
he has divided his time between vost-inortems and
literary work.
Theodore Hancock, solicitor, oi Colac, is
dead. He was identified with the celebrated Mel-
bourne Provident Institute, the Premier Per-
manent of its day.
One of the Prince of Wales’s greatest
worries is Mrs. Cresswell, a leaseholder on his
Sandringham estate, who writes to the press com-
plaining about him.
The late old-bachelor squatter, Captain
“ Mamre ” Haimes, left £50,000 to be divided
equally among the Colac, Geelong, and Melbourne
Ladies’ Benevolent Societies.
Heligoland had for its last British Governor
Arthur Barkly, son of Sir Henry Barkly, formerly
Governor of Victoria, and who spent his early
days in the old Government House at Toorak.
Governor Robinson (the journeyman
Governor), will, it is cabled, temporarily succeed
Governor Carington at Sydney. We have Smith,
we have had Robinson—where is Gov. Jones ?
Seven titled contributors to the May
number of the Nineteenth Century ! Consider
it this be not an argument for anonymity, for
what show would such upholsterers have under it
A London letter to the Chicago News
says; “The Princess of Wales is as bald as a
billiard-ball—for the same reason that she is lame,
deaf ’^ V 1 are lnarve L °f art. The princess is
Editor Davis, of the Sydney Quarterly
Magazine, has anticipated Parkes. In his current
issue he gives an excellent portrait and a very
jammy bmgraphica! sketch of “ The Hon. Sydney
Burdekm, M.L.A.”
Excellent harmless Jenner, long associated
with the Victorian Legislative Council, has
passed away. He was one of those democrats
who dip their big toe in the cold water, but remain
shivering on the brink.
Men pass quickly from political life in
Australia. Out of the 122 members constituting
the N.S.W. Legislative Assembly in 1886, but 55
have seats in the present Parliament. Eight of
the absentees are dead.
Millionaire Watson, of Sandhurst, had
shares in companies in almost all the Australian
colonies, including 14,000 shares in breweries; 286
in Sydney Daily Telegeaph and 1000 in Mel-
bourne Evening Standard.
J. E. Brown, Conservator of S.A. Forests,
now appointed to a similar position in N.S.W.,
has made a large sum of money for S.A. during
his term of office. He is getting on for 50 years,
but is still restlessly energetic.
“ Who holds the cheques, as a rule ?”
asked Purves, Q.C., in Melbourne Police Court
the other day. The witness explained that the
accountant held them, “I see,” mused Purves,
“ and who holds the accountant ?”
Judge Mein, of Queensland Supreme
Court, is in Sydney, and has been very unwell.
It would appear from several late utterances of
his Honor up North that he has been hardly in a
fit state for duty for some time past.
Kintore fell off his horse while riding to
review the army at Adelaide. Loch fell off his
charger right under the noses of the army at
Albert Park, Melbourne. Put a governor on
horseback, and he doesn’t ride to the devil.
Kinloch Cooke has refused the Chief
Justiceship of Samoa, and it has been proposed to
offer it to Robert Louis Stevenson. No one more
unfit for the post than that over-sensitive,
?W'
F\ T 3
<aHA H V V J
you O & p '&9ue 5,-r- e o
NOf TO S> W fe./N T"
" n*<>**
c* 0
INDIGNANT MELBOURNE TAILOR: “ WHO SAYS I SWEATED?"
irritable, and easily-prejudiced person could be
found.
Young Lome, the apprentice lost over-
board from the ship West Australian between
Mauritius and Melbourne on May 31st, was, sad
to tell, the last-surviving son of his mother, a
widow, whose two other sons had been drowned as
sailors.
There is in Darlinghurst gaol, doing a
“ life ” sentence, a man whose crime was setting
fire to a house, and thereby occasioning a loss of
two lives —for the sake of obtaining the five shil-
lings given by the Eire Brigade authorities for
first information !
A recent British bigamist was described
by a Manchester lady, whose letter was read in
court, as “ a person who has a Christian character,
gentlemanly in appearance, of good address, and
his heart is all aglow with love for Christ.” The
portrait is typical.
Miss Rae, a young Australian artist, has
won the high distinction of getting a painting
hung in the Paris Salon this year. Miss Rae
studied at Melbourne Gallery under Eolingsby,
who has altogether been a splendid success in
Melbourne as a teacher.
One of Bret Harte’s sons has just had to
pay 10,000 dollars for alienating the affections of
the wife of one J. J. Smith. From this we con-
clude that young Harte has been finding material
for old Harte’s stories of Sierran yum-yum, which
are so circumstantial as to place it beyond doubt
that either he or his son must have “been there.”
POLITICAL POINTS
NTS. Wales pays nearly two millions per
annum as interest on her public debt.
Out of 54 members of the S.A. Assembly
no less than 42 spoke on the address-in-reply.
Copeland, M.P., says it costs N.S.W. £2
a member for every day the Legislative Assembly
sits.
Having remitted the tax on beer, the
Queensland Government propose to tax news-
papers.
There are signs of a political parting
between Kingston and Playford, the leaders of the
S.A. Opposition.
As Levien, M.P., puts it, “broken-down
swells, mere swallow-tailed men from England,”
are rushi g the N.S.W. civil service.
During the last seven years the land under
tillage in Victoria has increased by 1.000.000
acres, and the rateable value of country lands ha
increased from £55,000,000 to £95,000,000 sterling
In Dantzic the Socialist vote has risen
from nine to three thousand in five years. All the
German cities present equal food for thought.
From 1870 to 1887, according to the
Liberty and Property Defence League, there were
in the British Parliament 87 Acts and 159 Bills of
a Socialistic character.
The only person throughly recognisable in
the Graphic sketch of the Federation Conference
is Parkes. Worse still, the Geaphio gives the
concern away by entitling it “ Imperial Federation
in Australia ! ”
Old Adye Douglas is back again in the
Tasmanian Parliament. He will be remembered
as the man who at a federal conference dinner at
Hobart paralysed the knights present by boldly
avowing that he was a Republican.
How is it that such an old and valued
public servant as Henry Halloran, late Principal
Under-Secretary, has not been offered a seat in
the N.S.W. Upper House ? Is he not regarded by
Parkes as up to the John Davies standard ?
The South Australian delegates to the
Federal Convention will probably be Ayers and
Gordon (Legislative Council) Cockburn, Playford,
Kingston, Coles, Bray and Holder (Assembly).
The Democratic and Conservative elements in
this crowd are about evenly balanced.
Chairman Smith of the S.A. Railway
Board recently threatened that if the Railway
employes went on strike ho would prosecute the
ringleaders for “interfering with Her Majesty’s
railways.” The railway men can avoid this by
simultaneously giving a fortnight’s notice.
Attention is called to the fact that a com-
pany which had obtained a contract for the con-
struction of locomotives inN.S. Wales, is advertis-
ing' for 500 men in Glasgow, to work longer hours
than are recognised in _ Australia as a day’s work.
The American law which makes the importation
of workmen under contract illegal, puts a stop to
that down-bearing business.
The “ Australian Natives ” object to B. R.
Wise’s proposal for a federal journal. The natives
are in this matter level-headed. Just as no reli-
gious-paper appeals to the outside public so no
other paper solely devoted to a hobby appeals to
those not already interested in that hobby. The
effective advocacy of any cause must, so far as
newspapers are concerned, rest with the general
press.
Gust, a well-known veteran Indian official,
writes a practical sort of paper in the last Asiatic
Review, on the Russian invasion of India. Sup-
posing the Russians got through the Khyber Pass,
or the Bolan, and swarmed on the Punjaub,
England would tear up all the railways and des-
troy the whole organisation of the country so that
the Russians could do nothing, wherefore Oust
says Persia is all 1 hey wi 1 get. But 10 years ago the
J ran seas pi an railway was said to be impossible.
Two hundred and fifty acres of land at
Plurastead (Eng.), which forty-five years ago were
let for agricultural purposes at £3 per acre, or a
total of £750, have, owing to the exigencies of the
workmen employed at Woolwich Arsenal, been
covered by houses built by or at the expense of the
men. During that period the ground-landlord
has received £1,000,000 in ground-rents, and
twenty years hence, on the falling-in of the leases,
he will become the absolute owner of the whole
property, including the houses built by the work-
people, thus pocketing, say, another million.
In the profit-sharing debate in the House
of Commons, Cunninghame Graham, in a highly
Socialistic speech, boasted that he had taken part
in many labour disputes, but, “thank God, never
in the character of a conciliator.” Bradlaugh,
who followed, said : “ Though! cannot strengthen
my assertion with the phrase used by the hon.
member, I can safely that I have never taken
part in any labour dispute except in the character
of a conciliator." The cultured, well-born,
idealistic, theistic Socialist was wrong; the self-
trained, lowly-born, matter-of-fact, atheistic In-
dividualist was right. Conciliation, just now, at
all events, is the toilers’ policy.
One point in the Australian Federation
question should not be forgotten. The main
strength of a federated nation-lies in the power of
the central body. Can a Federal Government in
a dependency prevent the withdrawal of a discon-
tent'd State? If yes, who is to exercise the power
the dependency or the superior government ? If
no, where is the security, say, for borrowing for
national purposes? According to Canadian ex-
perience the Federal Government cannot well
exercise this power, and if we are to have the
spectacle of a helpless Federal Council or “ Con-
tinental Congress ” simply to add to our expenses
■uul our roll of G. M. G. ’s, the game is not worth the
candle.
A ridiculous volume of Federation twaddle
lately printed in Melbourne, but paid for ex-
clusively with N.S.W. Treasury money, bears an
imprint which is a deliberate lie. It contains
200 pages of trashy English Press cuttings about
the latest Parkesian plaything, and is published,
like scores of other things of this smt, simply and
solely for the glory of the vainglorious Premier
Parkes. It’s bad enough for the State to have to
pay £7los. for photographs to gratify the miserable
little vanity of Parkes’ colleague, the Honorable
Dan Yell ■O’Connor Im Pay, but the present little
job will probably cost £2OO at the very least. And
its destiny is the dirt-box, from the very jump.
By the way, where now are the plans of Parkes’
Dead-House, and how much did they cost ?
Gov. Hopetoun has paid a vice-regal visit
to one of the Melbourne State schools, and thinks
that it compares favourably with any he has seen
either in England or Scotland. Considering that
Hopetoun didn’t know enough to qualify himself
for the British Army, we were under the impres-
sion that he had never seen any school at all.
In a letter to the S.M. Herald, teetotal
secretary Knapp remarks “Drink (as said his
late Royal Highness the Duke of Albany) ‘is the
only enemy England has to fear.’” Charming,
this, considering that the late Duke of Albany
was a fatuous person who used to get an epileptic
fit every time he drank a glass and a half of claret-
cup.
A Freetrade paper is surprised that that
enthusiastic Protectionist, the late David
Buchanan, should have left a Freetrader (J. F.
Burns) as his executor. Now, Buchanan and
Burns were life-long friends. When Burns was
’Clerking ” for a butcher on the Hunter, Buchanan
was “ striking ” for a blacksmith in the same
locality.
Stanley owns up to a snow-white head at
rast. His supply of golden hair-dye became ex-
hausted while the explorer was fooling around
after Emin, and before he could procure a fresh
lot the story of how anxiety and suffering had
bleached the “ hero’s ” locks became published
abroad. So a further resort to the old aureoline
dodge was out of the question.
Beaney has never been able to collocate
the diamonds again since he returned to England,
His great diamond man was Sylla Denis, but grim
death slaughtered off the whole Denis firm in about
18 months : Victor Denis, Sylla Denis, and Gus-
tave Lachal. _ Beaney has just a few diamonds to
sigh over. He used to be able to plunge his arm
in them almost up to the elbow.


**5$: \
C/////4-
Af»&27W'
V O'- P-s'£ll
“S*,
HIS APPOINTMENT. ,•>
4 New South Wales? Where the deuce is Nevr South Wales ?
Soon after his arrival he applies himself to the task of
trying to comprehend N.S.W. politics.
Parting vroras with the Prince of Wales.
HIS “OFFICIAL” LANDING.
N.S.wTIoU"’ the fcst ovel amoD ff »•
3^
NOV/Lryßhß ~
l| t |w xi r si
- -j—““ f^T/
.JBL B
"[Wpfprnrfw!
) m ri.i3M4 /.y j (
l! / p /9zosTizr
I 15 7i ITpX ;Z9


Extract from letter to the
Prince of : “ My dear
my billet here is no sinecure, I can
tell you * * *1”
HIS FIRST OFFICIAL AjCT ANll GREAT
SPEECH.
“Ladies and gentlemen, I have'much
pleasure in declaring this Dickey Bird
show now open in the ; name of Her
Majesty! ”
His ludshlp Is here seen in the act of
wishing his time was out. It will be observed that he has
marked a red-letter-day cri the above well-thumbed calendar
Thus : X.
Photographer : “ See here, your Lordship,
if you could repress that yawn. I haven’t a
wide-angle lens in the place.”
Carington : “ My dear man, I can’t help it.
I have got so confirmed in the habit of 4 open-
ing ’ things since' I came to Australia, that I
now open my mouth when there’s nothing else!”
He relieves the distress at Bourke by « shunting
waggons." • &
, cann °t he charged against
hnn that he has ever abused the
Prerogative of Mercy.
We all remember the touching
episode of the footballer who broke
his leg and was carried home by
the Governor.
“ Confound that aide of mine ; if he
msn gone and stuffed that dog-show speech
mto my pocket instead of the one he wrote
ZtZT* l arhament After doesn’t
The ’ Queen’s representative on
his return “ home ”— a slight
shrinkage.
We will now sing “ God Save the
Queen.”
in e “’ S repmentat:v «
ƒ
A Departing Governor: His Vice-Regal Career.


The
Marvellous
18s. 6d.
OPTIMUS
WATCHES
The Best, Cheapest and Most Accurate Timekeepers
ever produced.
Made especially to our order by one of the leading and
most celebrated manufacturers of Watches in Switzerland,
and experience has shown that no watch is better than a
well-made Swiss one.
Gilt movements, jewelled m six holes, keyless (10 turns
to wind), enamel dials, crystal faces, well made, splendidly
finished, nickel cases that will wear excellently; in fact,
real good-looking, handsome little watches, and magnifi-
cent timekeepers.
Twelve months’ guarantee forwarded with every one.
Send P. 0.0. for 19s. 6d. (Is, postage), and have one
forwarded by post. If not in every way satisfactory after
a week money willingly refunded.
Only to be obtained from
FROST <sc SHIPHAM.
Spectacle Makers, Opticians & Electricians,
474 & 587 George Street. Sydney.
The SYDNEY DEPOSIT BANK,
90 - KING STKEET —DO
Established 1885.
Agencies in London and throughout Australia.
Overdrafts granted against Deposit of Deeds,
and all the usual banking business transacted.
The following are the Kates of Interest allowed
fur Fixed Deposits
3 Years per cent.
12 Months 8i per cent.
6 Months 7| per cent.
3 Months 5| per cent.
5 per cent, allowed on daily balance of current account.
For the past Four (4) Years a Bonus of One per
Cent, has been paid in addition to the above rates.
This is the first and only Bank in the Colonies
which divides its profits with its depositors.
Communications from the country will be
promptly attended to.
* T. S. RICHARDSON,
rjKNRRAI, MANAGER.
W. 11. PALING & COMPANY, LIMITED,
356 George Street, SYDNEY,
h ave -x % “V M 8 o,hers
Society
The veteran members of Australia’s
eldest club —men of the Deas Thomson era---
having nearly all passed away, it has been decided
to leave the old house and enter upon new
premises which are being erected on one of the
finest sites in Sydney, that at the corner of Bent
and Macquarie streets, and opposite the site of
theneW Houses of Parliament. Up to now the
Australian has been the head-quarters of all the
nice, fat, old silver-haired gentlemen who arrivem
town just in time for “ the board-meeting ” at 11
o’clock —safe, well-gilded old boys with faces bear-
ing the mature bloom which comes of good living
and a cherished digestion. They will now be suc-
ceeded by a race of clubmen who don’t believe in
keeping money on fixed deposit year after year at
from five to six per cent.
* # *
An incident of adoosid unpleasant nature,
doncherknow, cast a gloom over the departure of
the Caringtons and Kintores from Melbourne to
Tasmania per Flinders. One among a mixed mob
on the wharf suggested cheers for the Baron, and
while that amicable emblem of V.R. was lifting
his hat to a casual hooroo, somebody had the
hardihood to propose cheers for Kintore. The
long, bony deputy-king of S. A. was about turning
to bow his gratitude for the popular devotion when
the whole multitude broke into a deep reverberat-
ing groan which nearly knocked him down the
hatches. It was a cruel time for the vice-regals,
but Lady Carington did her best for the situation
by gazing sorrowfully at her husband to make be-
lieve that she thought they were booing him in-
stead of the other noble person. The effect on
Kintore was not visible, because he always looks
like the wooden figure of a Scotchman outside a
snuff-shop, whatever happens.
* *= #
A witness in Sydney Supreme Court, the
other day, swore that he saw a lady fall in the
street, but “ notdiaving been introduced to her he
did not attempt to help her up.” That witness
was almost justified. Men are far more bashfnl
than women, and as politeness mainly consists of
cast-iron cheek, the average man, rather than ex-
pose himself to the chance of being publicly
snubbed, carefully refrains from proffering assist-
ance which may be spurned. For instance, a c.r-
tain lengthy politician, the other day, saw a lady
endeavouring to alight near a Macquarie-street
club from a hansom drawn by a very restive horse.
Seeing that she stood an excellent show of having
her nose broken'on the pavement, he stepped for-
ward and offered his hand—which she abruptly de-
clined. Then she jumped and came a perfect
smash. “It serves you right, madame,” said he,
picking her up—“ such rude rebuffs extinguish
politeness in man.”
■> * * *
One thing is certain : the next Mayor and
Mayoress of Sydney will find it impossible to
vie effectually with the hospitality of Mr. and
Mrs. Burdekin, who will, from the rate at which
things are now going on, spend an enormous
amount of money during their term of office. It
will, by the way, fall to Mayor Burdekin’s lot to
civically farewell Gov. Carington.
# * *
Alfred Joseph, the gay sport from Ben-
digo, found his only Parisian difficulty to be that
of “distinguishing Aspasia from the Nobility.” A
similar difficulty is cropping up in Sydney. At a
recent local ball 34 women with dyed hair were
counted. A man walking once up the George-
street Block, from Hunter-street to King-street,
saw 14 women with tinted locks and frescoed faces
—and he happened to recognise some of them as
not avowedly belonging to the soiled-dove sister-
hood. Nevertheless, they were excellent colour-
able imitations. Whenever a man sees a woman
with dyed hair and painted face he mentally re-
flects that the dawdling walk will only be a matter
of time. Modesty (next to ugliness) is the best
protection of virtue. No modest woman has the
front to make her face into a chromolithograph.
# * *
The N.S.W. Divorce Bill, which now may
be called an Act, prohibits the re-marriage of the
respondent before the termination of two years
after dissolution of marriage. The only way in
which to accomplish any moral object which may
be contemplated by this clause will be to lock up
the respondent for a couple of years in gaol.
The clause strongly reminds one of the old gentle-
man, jealous even in death, who leaves his fortune
to his wife conditionally on her remaining single—
the consequence being, in many notable Australian
instances, that the widow does remain single—
and has half-a-dozen husbands.
# * *
There is a movement at Melbourne Uni-
versity to abolish the humbug of honorary degrees.
Men of genuine attainments are tired of the spec-
tacle of nincompoops hoisted up to degrees by the
Royal Road. Thus was the Duke of Edinburgh
admitted to Melbourne University as a learned
brother. Thus did Baronet Clarke become LL.D.
at Oxford or Cambridge —on the same day as
Oliver Wendell Holmes ! Thus was the Princess
of Wales (attired in full regalia) made a Doctor of
Music at Dublin. The “ salt of the earth ” put on
an ermine gown and trencher hat, and straightway
know more than anyone can teach them.
# * *
Oliver Wendell Holmes’ latest poem :
Amid the crash of the Melbourne religious
world over the Land Boom the Gold Bug rides
triumphant on the ruins of his pious friends. Ho
gives his garden-parties, scatters doubloons galore,
goes about more shiny, smug, and smirking than
ever. If he were clown he would be kicked the
same as the unlucky pietists. When he does come
down there’ll be ..as much rejoicing as over Bis-
marck. Make hay while the sun shines, Gold
Eub - .
If the facts are as stated with respect to
the non-payment of Sculler Searle’s funeral ex-
ICE MELTS.
Miss Mary Anderson, the well-known actress, was to-day married to Mr. Antonio Fernando
Navarro, of New York. — Cable.
FERNANDO : “AND THEY SAID YOU WERE MADE OF ICE, MARY!”
OUR MARY: “DOESN’T ICE MELT?”
penses, the debt should be at once liquidated out
of the Searle monument fund. Funeral first,
tomb-stone afterwards. When we saw the poor
lad’s funeral we thought it was too gorgeous to be
knowingly paid for by anyone who was really
alive.
* * *
A verdant young Melbournian has patented
a contrivance for opening letters speedily, just as
though the finger and thumb couldn’t do the
trick smartly enough. Which reminds us that a
batch of letters, placed upon a wire gridiron over
a bowl full of boiling water, would open them-
selves. The man might as well patent the teapot
system, by which so many enterprising servant-
girls have discovered who was sending billy-
duckses to “missis.”
* * *
The biography of Dr. Perry, the first
Bishop of Melbourne, is being written by Canon
Goodman, of Geelong. A thankless task, indeed.
People only pretend to read such books. In our
mind’s eye do we see that biography in the three-
penny box at the bookseller’s door a year or two
hence, with all the rest of the religious publica-
tions. “ The parsons’ box,” says fine, old agnostic,
bookseller Flayer—nearly all second-hand book-
sellers are heathens—pointing to the cheap sweep-
ings ; “they all get there at last. Threepenny
collection-plate, threepenny box. Like to like.’
Bishops during their lives must have charming
little adventures, but these things are never hinted
at in their biographies. For interest, you must
go to the x’eminiscenees of the judges, most of
whom, if you read between the lines, are seen to
bo very human.
* * *
At the Melbourne Sweating Conference
“it was stated that a coat for Sir M. H. Davies
had been made on a Sunday. The poor fellow
who made it was told that there would be no work
for him unless he did it, and so he looked himselt
up in the bedroom while his wife was dressing the
children for Sunday-school, that they should not
see him breaking one of the greatest of the com-
mandments. ”
We have just read a lecture by Captain
Castles, R.N., about Samoa. It consists chiefly of a
dissertation on the beauty of the Samoan girls,
and casts a magnesium light on the movements of
the British navy in the South Seas.
# * *
One of the maxims of a rough and ready
code of morality, warranted to wear well, is that
a wise man never found a dead man. Another
item is, that no wise man ever found two people
of opposite sex together under compromising
circumstances, or, if he did, he carefully shut his
mouth up on the subject.
# * #
Mayor Sutton, of Launceston (Tas.) had
provided an elaborate repast for Lords Carington,
Kintore, and Co. on the occasion of their passing
through his town last week, but their Excellencies,
&c., not having time to accept his hospitality, the
collation was left untouched—whereupon the
Mayor invited the local constabulary to clear the
board. In Tasmania, as elsewhere, the police are
chiefly regarded as convenient receptacles for cold
meat.
* * *
This is a pitiable tale of an elopement
which didn’t come off at Brisbane last week. The
male party to the transaction was a glittering
youth recently arrived from * ‘ home, ” whose father,
it was generally understood, spent most of his
time going about in his own yacht and visiting the
principal capitals of Europe ; and the other person
implicated was a maiden of 18 or thereabouts.
They hadn’t enough sense between them to walk
round a log and find their way home again, and,
as already hinted, they resolved to elope. There
wasn’t the least necessity for it, as the girl’s father
was the most affable person ever heard of, but it
seemed to be the correct thing to do. Also they
felt that it was advisable to do it silently and at
night, though it would have been perfectly easy to
elope in a shilling cab at midday, barring the look
of the thing ; and they resolved that they would
fly rapidly for fear of pursuit, though they knew
perfectly well that the genial parent would only
telegraph to them to come back and get his bless-
ing and receive a cheque if they wanted one.
It was this unnecessary style which broke
the proceedings up. About ten o’clock one
night the bridegroom shinned over the back
fence with a weapon in his hand to murder
the dog if it molested him ; he knew there was no
dog and that there never had been one, but he felt
that his warlike attitude was according to prece-
dent. Then he climbed a water-tank and found
himself at the open window of a sort of back
sitting-room where the girl was waiting for him
in breathless suspense. She felt called upon to be
breathless under the circumstances. He told her
to go out silently by the front-door, and he would
meet her at the corner, and then they would fly.
Of course he could have told her this the day
before, or the previous week for that matter, but
it would have taken the shine out of the elope-
ment altogether. And just then an altogether
unexpected element was infused into the business,
for they both heard the old man flapping upstairs
in-two immense carpet-slippers, and the distracted
girl closed and locked the window so suddenly
that she fastened in her lover’s coat-tails as he sat
in a lofty attitude on the window-sill, also the
slack of his pants, and nearly half-a-pound of the
hinder part of the lover himself, and fled into her
own bedroom. Presently the coast seemed
clear, and she escaped silently into the
street, and reached the corner to find nobody
there. She waited, and still he didn’t ar-
rive. Meanwhile the loved one was smother-
ing a shriek of anguish on the window-sill,
and the father had lit the gas in the room and
deliberately sat down to smoke, By-and-bye the
girl stole round into the lane, and made frantic
signs to the youth to come down off that tank,
and he made frantic signs that he couldn’t do it.
He had a vague idea of wrenching himself free at
the sacrifice of a square foot of his cuticle, and
part of his pants, and the entire end of his coat;
but then, alas, his pocket-book was in that tail-
pocket that was hanging down inside, and in the
pocket-book was most of his money and sixteen
letters from the other girl, and he couldn’t go and
leave them behind. After a while the girl realised
the situation, and flew round to the front-door
with the idea that she might release him unob-
served, but too late she remembered that she had
locked herself out, and the only thing she could
do was to lean up against the house and weep. A
policeman recognised her, and began to ask ques-
tions, and when she explained the horrors of the
situation he had to go into the next street to
shriek. He told four other policemen, and
they all shrieked. - Just about this time
the old man opened the door, with a
heavenly smile, and let the poor sufferer in.
He seemed to take it quite as a matter of course
that his daughter should be weeping on the door-
step at 11.30 p.m., and he merely remarked that
it was a beautiful night and sent her to bed,
leaving her intended husband still on top of the
tank. Then the stern progenitor went upstairs
again, and after grasping the intruding coat-tail
firmly, to prevent the owner taking to flight, he
opened the window. He remarked that it was a
beautiful night, and the person on the tank replied
in despairing accents that it was. Next he very
slowly handed out the pocket-book, and after it
the other girl’s letters one by one, remarking as he
did so that the writer seemed a very nice girl;
and, finally, he observed once more that it was a
beautiful night, and let go his hold, and the owner
leaped from the tank and left.
* * *
Not long ago, writes a W.A. newspaper
correspondent, a Mr, Charles Lynn was lost in
the bush at Pilbarra, and his body was never
recovered. About the time of his demise, his
umde. Charles Henry Augustus Lynn, died in
England, and in his will left the late Mr. Charles
Lynn £5OO a year. The uncle desired the deceased
to proceed to England immediately on receipt of
the news of his death, and also requested him to
marry, if all parties were agreeable, a young lady
of great personal beauty. When the poor fellow
left Fremantle for Roebourne, he badly needed
-assistance, and got it from two gentlemen in
Perth. Another sad thing is that his life-assurance
policy had been sold to a tailor in Adelaide at a
very nominal figure.
# * *
St. James’s Gazette says that the Vic-
torian Balaclava subscription is “ another proof
of the tie which ” —but why should we take account
of what that obscure little Tory rag says ? Do we
not know that on a recent occasion St. James’s
Gazette said exactly what a Melbourne Tory
newspaper correspondent wrote for it, and that
the correspondent thereupon telegraphed the state-
ment (which he himself had written) to Melbourne
as public opinion promulgated by St. James’s
Gazette ? A fig for St. James’s Gazette !
* * *
The maddest woman extant Just now is
Sister Rose Gertrude, who is stationed at the
receiving station of Kalihi, just outside Molokai.
In the first place, the Franciscan nuns, who are in
charge of Molokai, won’t let her jump their claim:
and nextly, she says that the lepers are not half as
bad as they were made out to be—in fact, the
crown of martyrdom she was so eager to clutch is
I LIKE YOU AND I LOVE YOU.
Like You met I Love You, face to face ;
The path was narrow, and they could not pass.
I Like You smiled ; I Love You cried, Alas !
And so they halted for a little space.
“ Turn thou and go before,” I Love You said,
“Down the green pathway, bright with many a flower
Deep in the valley, lo ! my bridal bower
Awaits thee.” But I Like You shook his head.
Then while they lingered on the span-wide shelf
That shaped a pathway round the rocky ledge,
I Love You Mured his icy dagger’s edge,
And first he slew I Love You - then himself. ’
THE SPEAKER'S RAIMENT.
The tailor sat in his bedroom drear,
A-stitching a coat for Davies,
While the teacher told his children dear
How sinners are stewed in gravies ;
The tailor sat all the Sabbath day,
His spirit than flesh was weaker :
He hadn’t the heart or time to pray,
So he sat on a stool and pegged away
At the coat for Mister Speaker.
The Speaker drove to the Church in state
And prayed for his Queen Vick-tory,
He dropped his gold in parson’s plate
And purchased a pound of glory ;
Yea, there he sat in his private pew,
And never a man looked meeker !
While the tailor hidden from mortal view
Was stitching away at the garment new
Intended for Mister Speaker.
His children called on “good old dad !’
Their innocent lips at keyhole,
And he cried aloud in accents sad—
“ Will Providence e’er make me whole ?
He told the kiddies to run away
And help mamma, not cheek her—-
For some must work while some must pray,
They have each their biz, on the Sabbath da.'
The tailor and Mister Speaker.


Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
You really ought to drink Wolfe’s Schnapps.
A pure spirit—Wolfe’s Schnapps.
. always ahead.
With it none other can compare.
None other dare compete,
For Pembll’s Flour is everywhere
Known to be good and sweet.
Reliable Watch Repairs. Daiims & Co., King-st. Arcade.
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
The popular liquor—Wolfe’s Schnapps.
Wolfe’s Schnapps has no rival.
Buy Wolfe's Schnapps by the bottle.
Wolfe’s Schnapps—It is grand.
Wolfe’s Schnapps—popularity increases yearly.
Hereford's Acid Phosphate
FOR ABUSE OP ALCOHOL.
It relieves the depression therefrom.
A slight cold often proves the forerunner of a-
complaint which may be fatal. Avoid this result
by taking Ayer’s Cherry Pectoral, the best remedy
for colds, coughs, and all throat and lung diseases.
f
ƒ
[iff
o!ii
wmi*
almost as palatable
as milk;
So disguised that the most
delicate stomach can take it.
•Remarkable as a
FLESH PRODUCER,
Persons gain rapidly
while taking it.
SCOTT’S EMULSION
18 by Physicians to be the FINEST
and BEST preparation of its class for the relief of
CONSVMPTIOK, SCROFULA, GENERAL
DEBILITY, WASTING DISEASES OE
CHILDREN, and CHRONIC COUGHS .
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS.
Ro B BKTSOFS WlllB Iv Y.
;C-r?00 X=*]FLXISS£3S.
<;ivi ;\ A WAV l\ Till: COLONIES
as rub'iiOws:- -
10 of <£6 oat h, 35 A 3, and 70 11,
Pamphlets from the Agents,
Hi Xji b JL'" C2O.
Limited, CHARLOTTE PLACE, SYDNEY
a most commonplace affair, and she has come
down kerslap from her heroics. It is sincerely to
be hoped that this young lady’s experience will be
a lesson to notoriety-hunters, who are now so
eiger, on cnery pretext, to get their names and
portraits into the illustrated papers and be inter-
viewed by “our representative.”
# * *
When Gov. Carington arrived at Mel-
bourne the other morning he was fixed up in
Hopetoun’s state chariot and four, the other lord-
lings following in a modest pony phaeton. Caring-
ton didn’t seem to like his position, however. He
suffered from an uneasy consciousness of being
taken for a travelling menagerie.
* # *
An Otago paper says that a Dunedin
medico sends out with his bills a printed slip con-
taining the underquoted lines :
Three faces wears the Doctor. When first sought,
A God’s ; an Archangel, when the cure’s half wrought •
But when the Doctor dares present his fee,
The Devil looks less terrible than he.
God and the Doctor we alike adore
When on the brink of danger—not before ;
The danger past, both are alike requited—
God is forgotten, and the Doctor slighted.
* # *
The Northern Territory Times advo-
cates that, “as a mercy” all the local lepers be
killed. The latest leper is a blackfellow from the
Katherine River.
* * #
The N.S. W. Auger Society wants the legal
age of female consent raised to 18 years. Why
not 80 at once ? The Bulletin would rather en-
trust the honour of an Australian girl of 16 years
to her own keeping, as a rule, than to that of the
libidinous old saints whose constant delight it is to
dabble in legal salacities,
* * *
The ordinary wages of one Chinaman in
Australia are equal to the wages of five London
laundry-women.
* * * -
A Ooonabarabran youth, In a letter to
his sweetheart produced in the Police-court, des-
cribes his heart as being “rolled out flat like a
pancake and folded round hers. ”
* * *
The Ballarat people have opened a “ Home
of Lazarus ” for the very poor. Lazarus has also
a home on Bendigo, but it is worked on quite a
different plan.
:;J * #
Victorian Railway Department are only
going to prosecute those railway defrauders travel-
ling without tickets against whom prirna facie
oases can be made out. Does this mean that
another law court is to be added to those already
in existence ? We can imagine what they mean
by prima facie cases. The parson can explain, bub
the counter-jumper can’t.
* * #
Thirteen years ago a Tenterfield (N.S.W.)
resident vanished, leaving a wife and seven
children. Time went on ; the woman thought he
was dead, and married again, bearing a child to
No. 2—and then the wanderer returned without
warning. He had been doing a thriving business
and living with another woman, the mother of
four children who called him father, in a town
three hundred miles away. Now comes the
strangest part of the story—the original husband
and wife are again living together on amicable
terms, though what has become of husband and
wife number two is not known. Possibly they
also have amalgamated.
* * *
At Taree, N.S. W., a Salvation Army girl
fell down in a fit. It was then discovered that
not only was she laced up within an inch of her
life, but to emphasise the pressure she had a
colossal leather belt lashed tightly round her stays.
Hug ? Hallelujah ! J
* * #
One Coull, of Picton, N.S.W., willed that
m the event of his nephew dying without issue)
his property, £BO,OOO, should revert “to the
Presbyterian Church at .” The nephew
died, and the Presbyterian Assembly claimed the
big fortune, but the Supreme Court has held that
the testator obviously intended the property not
tor the church in general but for some specific
building, and that the bequest being void through
uncertainty the money has to go to the general
revenue failing next of kin. The church thus
loses eighty-thousand sovereigns because old Coull
best” b made UP minC * which P arson he liked
* * #
A section of Sydney society doesn’t appear
to be pleased unless it has some “celebrity”
ordering its carriage about and sitting next it in
the d.c. while the other Leo Hunters fairly writhe
With envy. Occasionally these worshippers of
public idols get very badly left by the objects of
tHeir adoration who borrow money on vague
secunty-the latest draw is £l4O oh a valueless
cheque. But even then the local Collector of
Aotonetios only heaves a faint sigh and seizes
another itinerant genius by his warm right hand.
* * *
Doctors’ fads are inexhaustible, and now
a Melbourne medico declaims against salt. We
nln(-L 0W V‘° :l Vers,on of children for salt, but
not her makes them swallow it, and this medico
nYL’ a y® rs . 10n 1S natural and healthy because
is E If m^ ei . lf]ed for human food, and there
w a v ty of f l altl 111 everything already. By the
‘‘fSbldSlruit?” ° nCe eXiSt6d that SiUt Wasth,!
* ' *
auction sales of too many
r SrS le Aas , tralian households, after the fur-
ST* 6 f Ca vi°P e , Wmds "P with the man’s
m T k °. ver tho stab| e where the
man may sleep if entomology allows him.
A Sydney judge, rather the worse for
wear in the hearing department, the other day
ground out a homily to a young lady in the dock
on the error of her ways, and finished up by sen-
tencing her to 18 months with hard labour.
“ Why,” returned the fair one, “ I can do that on
my head like a sanguinary toff !” “ What’s that ?
what’s that?” said the judge, and then, after a
moment’s pause : “ It will be necessary for you to
petition the Government on that subject.”
* * *
Apropos to the proposal of Gunuedah
Turner, M. P., that the N. S. Wales’ Parliament
be opened with prayer, it may be safely wagered
that hardly one in every 20 members of the Austra-
lian legislatures ever formally goes down on his
marrowbones. Who was it that some years ago
wrote that he had, travelled Australia thoroughly
during a Bohemian experience of years and years,
and that though he had roomed with hundreds of
men of all conditions he had only to his recollec-
tion seen one man go down on his knees to pray?
#
“ Gr. W. Adelaide ” was discussing with
his committee the proposed plans for the comple-
tion of the local St. Peter’s Cathedral. An archi
tect’s assistant was present and pointed out that
the spires shown on the plan resembled those on
Notre Dame. A committee-man informed the
Bishop that the- spires were not on Notre Dame
when he saw it a few years ago. The Bishop
replied in a sorry-for-your-ignorance tone —“Oh,
yes, Mr. , many years ago,” and a much-
travelled Professor of Law joined in with— “ Quite
true, my lord.” The committee-man felt crushed,
“OUTCLASSED.”
"A SKETCH AT THE MELBOURNE IONY SHOW.”
but at next meeting he produced modern photos-
of Notre Dame, which clearly proved that he was
right.
*. * *
An imported clergyman of pronounced
ideas on Temperance, residing in North Adelaide,
recently paid a visit to Broken Hill. On the re-
turn journey he started a discussion on his hobby
with his fellow-passengers (who were not quite
abstainers), and warmed up to his subject. “ I
believe in muscular Christianity,” he Said ; “I’m
not one of your namby-pamby .Christians ; I’ve
been a teetotaller for 18 years. Just feel my
leg ! ! ”
* * *
As the guests were leaving Lady Kintore’s
reception, the other day, a certain hook-nosed
personage “in the money-lending,” who is a
“Captain,” told the footman to call for “Captain
Blank’s carriage. ” The name resounded up and
down the drive, ciiul then there w<is slight p<mse,
at the end which a gruff voice was heard :
Blank, ere y are, number forty,’'and a miserable
old hired waggonette attached to a framework
horse drove up to the door amid the gutfaus of the
crowd.
* * *
The newest automatic is the tea-machine.
It saves the London grocer, whose trade is with
the poor, a lot of trouble. Outside his door stands
the machine labelled, “ six strong cups of tea for a
penny,” and all his bother is the withdrawal of
coppers and the insertion of tea.
* * *
One of the - Australian Eleven, writing
from England, says that “ to Australians who are
accustomed to Ibbk upon the grass when it is
brown, the green fields of England are very
pretty.” This is contrary to . the general ex-
perience of tlie bushman who finds himself in
England. Under so grey a sky such dead-green
grass is oppressive and painful to the eye, and re-
minds one of the growth on a dead man’s grave.
* # *
A debating society down South has been
considering the proposition, “That strong lan-
guage is not only morally unobjectionable but is a
positive relief to the feelings,” and a strong and
intelligent party in the society recorded its vote
in favour of a rich and copious blasphemy. We
sympathise with the mover of the resolution.
What Would the politician be without strong
language ?—a mere automaton full of unexpressed
sentiments and smothered indignation. What
would the clergyman be if he couldn’t pound the
desk in front of him and talk about hell ? How
would the bullobk-driver get on if there was
nothing but gentlemanly language in existence,
and he couldn’t dash the off-sider, and tell him to
mind where he was going if he didn’t want his
gory horn knocked off his profane head and the
rest of his condemned carcase banged to
• Does anybody suppose that a man
wants to use high-class poetry or lofty theological
expressions when he is getting three 'teeth drawn
without chloroform? What good is the noble
language of Isaiah to a person whose wife has just
eloped and taken his shirts and all the furniture,
and left nothing behind but an asthmatic cat?
Can even a lady get along with the ordinary
resources of* culture when she has drunk boiling
tea by mistake ? If she doesn-’t swear audibly, she
thinks it, which is much the same, and the world
has got to have some profane language handy, for
life is full of circumstances which can’t be ex-
pressed without it.
* * *
1 he S.A, militia has come to such a pass
that at a recent public parade about a dozen red-
coats were sent back home, owing to the disgrace-
ful condition of their uniforms.
* * #
Knutsford desires information as to how
la grippe ’’ got in its work while touring Austra-
lia. Generally speaking, the epidemic appeared
to pay particular attention to civil servants and
others who could “lay up” (as the Prince of
Wales said m that famous letter to Lady Mor-
daunt) for a month or so, consoled by the blessed
thought that pay-day would get there all the same.
* * *
“ Alice M.D.” writes to the Sydney press,
imploring that the mad elephant at Sydney Zoo.
shall be put out of its misery. Women are queer
creatures. Unless The Bulletin is very much
mistaken, the last time that “ Alice M.D.” wrote
to the press it was to “ implore ” that four boys
should be hanged.
* * #
A Melbourne usurer was charged with the
offence of embracery—.a kind of conspiracy or
bribery—whereupon a well-known City Councillor
of Hibernian extraction, remarked: “Another
case of going wrong wid de wimmen !”
* * *
Melbourne hunt languishes for its Hope-
toun, who has not yet appeared in the pigskin,
with his two magnificent hunters from England.
Australian fencing terrifies the Englanders, and
Anthony Trollope, in his specs., went smelling the
red clay in the bottom of a ditch out Brighton
way, Melbourne, when bethought to emulate his
English experiences of Le Sport. The ladies turn
out with the Melbourne Hunt in their new short
skirts, but not yet with the divide.
The celebrated Uam-Yar whisky, which
gained at international exhibitions eleven medals
including a gold medal at Sydney and the highest
medals at Melbourne and Amsterdam, has now
achieved the highest popularity with the whisky-
drinking public of Australia as in other parts of
the world.
Professor Robert Ellis Thompson has
joined issue with Gladstone on the assertion that
Protection tends to waste.” “Suppose,” says
the Professor “ that we do make hardwares and
textiles dearer than England, why is this a waste?
If we spend more labour in doing it .that will be
waste. But if American labour and capital are
used to as good advantage as European, how is it
a waste to pay our Labour higher ? . But
there is another kind of waste, which is real, un-
mistakeablo, terrible in its result. It is the waste
of idleness. Of that waste Ereetrade always
brought us plenty, and would bring it again. If
Mr. Gladstone wants to see that illustrated let
him look to Norway, to Turkey, to India, and ; to
Ireland, the four countries which best typify the
fruits of the Ereetrade policy when not adopted—
as it was in England—after centuries of successful
Protection.”
Dear Bulletin, --This story is strictly
true. 1 know the manager, I know his family,
and there has not been a lawyer among them for
the last half-century at least.’ The manager of a
station at Whakat'ane (N.Z.) was nearly eaten out
of his billet with caterpillars. They were all over
tlm place, aim attacked a fine field of maize in
which he specially prided himself. Came to him
one day an aboriginal, who asked him why he did
not employ the Maori tohunga (priest) to exorcise
the animals. “He will rid you of the plague for
three pounds,” said the man. The manager re-
plied that he would willingly pay this sum, and
the priest was sent for. He came and squatted
down in the maize-field, and, after being left
undisturbed for a day and a night, the cater-
were all gone—and they stayed away and
the priest got his £3. Now, how do you explain
that ? Pakeha.
The London letter-sorters work from 4
a.m. to 8 a.m., and then again from 4 p.m. till 8
p.m. A sorter receives 14s. a week at starting;
and if he is energetic, honest, and sober, he may
at the end of twenty years’ service get 30s. a week.
The cost of prosecuting the Premier Per-
manent coterie will ultimately fall on the broad
shoulders of the taxpayers. The prosecutions
have already cost £5000. Groans. Refreshers.
Oysters. Cow-milking. Spinning out. Same
old game.
The Victorian Government advertises for
tenders for “Funerals in the Melbourne district,
as required in the several departments of the
Government, from 1st July, 1890, to 30th June,
1891,” said tenders to include all charges except
“ ministers’ fees.” From this we infer that Gillies,
Deakin, and Co. are at last determined to yield to
the popular opinion. R.I.P.
The Silver Age relates that a pushing
business man offered to supply hymn-books gratis
to a certain poor church conditionally on his being
permitted to insert his own advertisements therein.
The offer was accepted, and when his books were
delivered the congregation could at first find no
advertisements; but at last one Sunday the parson
proceeded to give out hymn No. 220, which,
hideous to relate, began :
Johnson’s pills are nice and mild :
Two for an adult and one for a child.
( Chaelemont and Co., photographers to the
Governor, Royal Arcade, have moderated their
charges for photographs, with a view of meeting
every one. Cabinets now 15s. per dozen.


Wolfe’s Schnapps will do you no harm.
The United States is a nation of traders. Two-
thirds of the business men of the Republic use
Esterbkook’s “Falcon” Pen. Samples free at
all Stationers.
When, the other day, a N.S.W. publishing
firm’s agent was driven, at the point of a pistol, from
premises visited by him for the purpose of deliver-
ing an ordered book, the magistrate ruled that the
occupier of the premises was justified in presenting
firearms at the deliverer in question. Dissatisfied
with this decision, the deliverer took out a Supreme
Court writ for assault, but the case will not come
to court, defendant having paid all costs.
f
ci
s
sdmsHd^vssmo
‘ SlN3O\/
Th.s most Delicious Sauce in tlie World.
-
ih
m
m
: I
m
ts.
m
ST ill:
u
6,000,000 Bottles
geld annually.
Enriches Hot
Joints, Stews,
&c.
Eelioiousto Chops,
Steaks, Fish,&c.
With soup it is
charming.
Egress with the
most delicate
person.
Makes cold meat
a lusury.
Makes the plain**
est viands pal-
atable.
The daintiest
dishes more
delicious.
A great addition
to Cheese.
Epicures pro-
nounce it the
best Sauce.
Tears no com-
petition. Amar-
vel of cheapness
and enterprise.
Suitable to the
invalid’s cup of
Broth,
Sewaro of colour*
ablo imitations.
H.R.H. tlie Prince of
Wales has recently ex-
pressed himself as highly
pleased with it.
SOLD EVERYWHERE.
Wholesale Agents TILLOCK & Co., Kent
and Liverpool Streets, Sydney. N.S.W.
m
Y&
&
“ They fit perfectly, and are
far superior to all the other
Corsets 1 have tried."
( Signed) Marie Bose.
THE
PATENT
Diagonal Seam Corset
Will not Split in the Seams
nor Tear in the Fabric.
Exquisite Model, Perfect
Comfort, Guaranteed Wear.
Beware of worthless imita-
tions. Every genuine Y& N
Corset stamped “Y& N Patent
Diagonal Seam Corset, No. 116, ’ in oval.
THREE GOLD MEDALS!
gold by all Drapers and Ladies’ Outfitters^
PHYSICAL HEALTH ofWOMAN,
—BY—
.A-la'-KIIK. PATERSOU,
A..W1., M.D., F.R.C.S.
157 Elizabeth Street, Hyde Park, Sydney
FRIGE Bb. 6d.
):(—
A.ll Booksellers
'<l4
& Co
from
every flower that
breathes a fragrance
SWEET SCENTS
LOXOTIS OPOPONAX
\FRANGIPANNI PSIDIUM
May be obtained
Of any Chemist or
Perfumer.
°od Stree''
Beware of imitations: The genuine is signed.
&
AUK —MUsK DF.KR
g
Amusements.
JJER MAJESTY’S THEATRE
Lessee and Manager Mr. Geo, Rignold.
Doors open at 7 ; commencing 8. Carriages at 10.30.
IMMENSE SUCCESS ! IMMENSE SUCCESS !
of Dion Boucicault’s Celebrated Drama,
—A.F T E I?/ D ABK.
“ OLD TOM,” Mr. GEORGE RIGNOLD.
Box Office at Theatre from 10 to 5. Brices as usual.
J. P. Macdonald, Acting-Manager.
QRITERION THEATRE.
Under the Management of Messrs. Brough and Boucicault.
Acting Manager ... Mr. H. J. Magee.
IMMENSE SUCCESS ! IMMENSE SUCCESS !
and Last EighJ; Nights of the
BROUGH-BOUCICAULT COMEDY COMPANY
in
T. W. ROBERTSON’S 4-ACT COMEDY,
“SCHOOL.” “school.”
The Comedy •produced under the, direction of
Mr. DION BOUCICAULT, Jinr.
Prices—ss, 3s, 2s and Is. Box Plan at Nicholson’s.
jg O N D I AQUARIUM.
The Most Popular
PICNIC AND PLEASURE GROUNDS of AUSTRALIA.
The Famous Switchback Railway, conveying
Passengers from Cliff to Cliff daily.
Splendid Asphalt Open-Air Skating-Rink Free to Visitors.
Open Daily from 10 a. m to 10 p.m.
Admission, Is.; Children, (id. Trams to Gate Fare, 4d
Theatre royal,
ROCKHAMPTON, QUEENSLAND.
Seating Accommodation :
('2OO. Dress Circle.
] 200, Stalls.
1.400, Pit.
Stage, 45x50 feet. Scenery and Fittings com-
plete, and every convenience. Sliding Roof for
ventilation.
77. 0. CAPORN & CO., lessees.
For Terms and Dates, apply
BEALE AND COMPANY,
Sydney, Brisbane and Rockhampton.
Theatre royal
Lessee ... ••• Mr. S. Lazar.
Sub Lessees, Messrs. Williamson, Garner and Musgrove.
Treasurer Mr. Geo. L. Goodman.
LAST NIGHTS! LAST NIGHTS!
of
cr. Xi. TOOLE,
SUPPORTED BY HIS LONDON COMPANY.
ADMISSION 55., 3s. and ONE SHILLING.
o Y C Xj O DEL JS*. -A.-
The Battle of Gettysburg.
Just added, New and Wonderful Effects;—Bugle Calls
Cannonading, Musketry Firing. Military Band every After-
noon and Evening. The Battlefield by Night: Gathering
up the wounded in the gloom of night. The Dead March.
The Storm; Thunder, Lightning, Rain. Special effects,
3 and 8 p.m. No matter if you have seen the Cyolorama
before, come again and see the wonderful effects. Bring
the children.
LECTURES HOURLY. OPEN DAILY, 10 to 10.
ONLY A SHILLING NOW!
Children Half-Price.
GRANDEST SIGHT IN AUSTRALIA.
•QARLINGHURST SKATING RINK,
SKATING
TO-DAY
SKATING
TO-NIGHT
SKATING
TO-DAY
SKATING
TO-NIGHT
SKATING
TO-DAY
SKATING
TO-NIGHT
SKATING
TO-DAY
SKATING
TO-NIGHT
SKATING
TO-DAY
SKATING
TO-NIGHT
SKATING
THE LARGEST AND BEST
IN THE WORLD.
Remember! Remember!
Seven Laps to the Mile.
THE SPLENDID FLOOR
PRONOUNCED
PERFECT!
THREE SESSIONS
TO-DAY.
Morning, 10to 12. Ad.,6cl. Skates
Free. Afternoon, 2.30 to 5.
Admission: Gents, Is; Ladies, 6d.
Skates, Od.
Evening, 7.30 till 10.15.
Admission, Is. Skates, Is.
Season Tickets:
Gents, 50s. Ladies, 40s.
SKATING
TO-DAY
SKATING
TO-NIGHT
SKATING
TO-DAY
SKATING
TO-NIGHT
SKATING
TO-DAY
SKATING
TO-NIGHT
SKATING
TO-DAY
SKATING
TO-NIGHT
SKATING
TO-DAY
SKATING
TO-NIGHT
SKATING
Theatrical
HOSIER Y.
SILK
COTTON
WOOL
TIGHTS, SHIRTS,
AND
OPERA HOSE,
PADS, ANIMAL DRESSES, ETC.
SPECIALITIES MADE TO ORDER.
Gilt Trimmings, Boots, Stage Fabrics.
Manufacturers to all leading London and Provincial
Theatres.
AUSTRALIAN AGENTS WANTED.
B. BXJBKTET & CO.,
42 King Street, Covent Garden, London.
JAPAN TRADING COMPANY
11)1 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY
(Near King Street).
NOB IE BORIS Manager
Wholesale Warehousemen of Japan Products
—AND—
Exporters of Colonial Productions,
SPECIALITIES:
Japan Hire, .Silks, Silk Handkerchiefs, Silk Pieer
(Hoods, Bamboo Wares, Mattings, Safety Matches,
Brushware, Toilet Soaps, Fancy Goods.
IST" Indents Executed at Lowest Prices,
Medical.
JOSEPHS!!’! iinlm.
By Royal Letters Patent.
The Most Useful Ointment in the World,
Bar None.
PREMIER OINTMENT is the SOUTHERN
HEMISPHERE. But, as many new arrivals
have lately made New South Wales their home, it
may be as well to let them know that there is such
an i rticle as JOSEPHSON’S OINTMENT purely
the product) on of the colony, composed of wild plants
indigenous to the country and nowhere else, the
principal of which is the EUCALYPTUS, now
so famed thoroughout the world.
Josephson’s Ointment is purely vegetable, and
0 u A HA NTK E D FREE FROM ALL POISONOUS
Qualities. No Artificial Colouring, as the
Green colour is extracted from the pure green
plants, which defy imitation. • , TT
WHO SHOULD SUPPER PROM PILES,
when one application will relieve you?
Read this letter and .Try for Yourselves
Messrs. E. Row and Co. ,
Dear Sirs, —I have tried your Jo ephson s Oint-
ment for Piles, and have found much relief from
using it. You are at liberty to use this if you feel
disposed.
I remain, yours, etc.,
L. P. SOLOMONS, Herald Office.
STUDY HEALTH BY TAKING ROW’S
STEANE’S BITTERS.
The great demand throughout the colony foi
these pure Bitters shows they are superior to all
others and equalled by none.
Facts Speak Louder than Words.
Read this sworn testimony from a well-known
citizen: —
Statutory Declaration.
“I, George Hewett, do hereby solemly and
sincerely declare as follows; —
“That I feel it a duty I owe to the public to
state that I have been suffering for many years
from weakness of the stomach, so called UN DI-
GESTION or DYSPEPSIA, and have been cured
by my taking two or three glasses of ROM S
STEANE’S BITTERS a day in a little water, and
I hope others suffering from the same complaint
will be as speedily cured.
1 “(Signed) G. HEWETT,
“ 215 Pitt-street,
Row’s Steane’s Wine
Is a safe and sure stimulant for the female sex or
children, for it raises and strengthens depressed
systems without producing a temporary excite-
ment to be followed by greater depression.
Persons suffering from loss of appetite and
general depression of spirits cannot do better than
take ROW’S STEANE’S WINE.
It cannot harm you, but must do good to all
delicate persons. Young Ladies can take tins
when suffering from general debility. It’s only t>
pure tonic. Try it.
Teetotallers will find this newly-invented
TONIC answer all the purposes of a stimulant
without its intoxicating quality. It will satisfy
the cravings of nature and create a desire for toocl
instead of drink. As an anti-febrile is unsur-
passed.
ROW’S
DANDELION
BITTERS.
We recommed these BITTERS to be taken
two or three times a day ; a wineglassful for an
adult, smaller quantity for children.
For General Debility, Dyspepsia, Rheumatism,
and Cutaneous Affections.
The action of dandelion, more especially upon
the liver and kidneys, in more reliable for remov-
ing all impure secretions than any other medicinal
plant known. ... „ ,
Persons suffering from Skin diseases will find
these Bitters invaluable.
DIRECTIONS FOR USE.
One wineglass two or three times a day after
meals diluted with same quantity of water. For
young people about half the quantity twice a day.
They Purify the Blood and Liver.
See what a Medical Gentleman says
about them.
Messrs. E. Row and Co. _ ♦
With thanks for forwarding me a bottle ot your
Row’s Dandelion Bitters, and consider them most
excellent, and superior to many others that I have
previously tried. Yours faithfully, HhiNKi
CHARLES CURTIS, M.R.C.S., England.
Port Adelade, October 30, 1886.
Read an expression of thankfulness received
from the undersigned A . .
“I have for many years been obliged to take
medicines of different kinds for affections of the
liver, indigestion, pain in the chest, general de-
bility, feeling of nervousness, weariness, great
depression of spirits, and so on, but all without
uroducing any beneficial effect, till at last, being
recommended to try ROW’S I) AN DELI ON
BITTERS, which, happily, I find lias produced
an unexpected and wonderful effect and change
in my system, and has removed from my mind
the horrible depressed feeling and former con
dition of bodily ailment I have so unhappily ex
perienced for so many years.
“I am glad of the opportunity to make known
the excellent qualities of ROW’S DANDELION
BITTERS, that those who are afflcted as I have
been may take advantage of them.
“ I remain, dear sirs,
“Respectfully yours,
“ MARY TERRILL,
“ Carlisle Cottage, Leichhardt. >
“Messrs. Ed. Row and Company, Sydney.”
Hotel-keepers all keep Bow’s Assorted Bitters
CONTAINING
ROW’S STEANE’S BITTERS.
ROW’S YOU’LL DO BITTERS.
HOW’S QUININE BITTERS.
HOW’S ORIENTAL BITTERS.
ROW’S DANDELION BITTERS.
BARON BKR/.ELIUS BUG HU BITTERS.
ROWS ASSORTED WINES.
SOI.K I’liOl'IilKTORH,
EDWARD ROW A CO.,
43, 45, 47 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
Furniture, &c.
EWT 0 N AND LAMB.
FURNITURE and PIANOFORTE
WAREHOUSEMEN,
CABINETMA KERS, UPHOLSTERERS
AND
BEDDING MAN UFACTURERS.
SHOW ROOMS AND MANUFACTORY:
SPRING AND O’CONNELL STREETS
T7MTLL SLTiTESfor DINING-ROOM—SIDE-
S' BOARD, DINNER WAGGON, TABLE,
OVERMANTEL, COUCH, EASY CHAIRS,
CARVING CHAIRS and DINING CHAIRS,
all to match. Newton .& Lamb.
lELF-AD JUSTING HAMMOCK CHAIR,
W 5 Patented.
fSS
This chair adjusts itself to any pout ion, from
sitting to reclin'ng and vice versa, at the will of
the occupant. It is simple yet ingenious in its
construction; works automatically. The above
cut represents only two of the numerous positions
that can be obtained instantly, and with but little
effort. It fits perfectly every part of the body,
and gives the occupant entire rest. We can now
supply portable suspension Stands to enable the
Chair to be used anywhere. Price, with Stand,
305.; without Stand, 255.
Packing in canvas, if required, 2s. Gd. extra.
RAW IN G -ROOM SUITES, Fashionably
Upholstered, at all prices.
JCCASIONAL TABLES in all Woods, im-
mense variety of designs; also, elegantly
finished in Embroidery, Plush, &c. Newton and
Lamb.
¥ ETTER FILING GAIT NETS (Amberg’s)
1J all letters found instantly :no endorsing or
indexing.
nn
Dr a wing-uoo m
CABINETS.
Early English
CHIPPENDALE DESIGNS.
Newton & Lamb.
m™.
•T A L NUT FALL
. y FRONT PEDESTAL
WRITING DESKS, of vari-
ous sizes; fitted with Shelves,
Moveable Pigeon-holes, Slid-
ing Trays, Stationery, Draw-
ers, revolving portable triple
Inkstand. Receptacles for
Stamps, and Ruler and Pen
Racks. Outside Drawers divided into compart-
ments by movable partitions to admit of enlarging
or diminishing the space when required. Locks
automatically. One of the most useful, commo-
dious, and perfectly-planned articles for the Library
or Office yet produced. Admirably suited to the
necessities of professional and business men.
ALNXJT FALL FRONT SINGLE
¥ y PEDESTAL WRITING DESK -
Internal arrangements almost identical with tho
description given above. Price only £l2 10s.
TABLES, all sizes.
EVOLVING OFFICE CHAIRS, with
JAj Adjustable Spring Backs.
Enclosed office washstands and
Epj fittings l
f
Yariods Sizes.
Newton and Lamb,
Spring & O’Connell
Streets.
d
"gED STEADS, all size
Nickel-plated and Black and
Brass. Great variety.
Bepding. —All descriptions
at lowest rates.
Newton & Lamb.
SPRING MAT-
TRESSES (Woven
Wire), best make; also,
Spiral Spring.
Price, from 7s. 6d. each.
d
CHEAP FURNITURE.—Pine Tables, from
10s. ; Dining Tables, from 20s. ; Kitchen
Dressers, from 225. Gd.; Washstands, from 12s. Gd.,
Chests of Drawers, from 405.; Wardrobes, from
80s • Cedar Cheffoniers, from 30s. ; Cedar Side-
boards, from £3 35.; Clothes Horses, from
Bs. 6d. ; Writing Tables, with drawers, from 2os.
EWT 0 N AND LAMB.
FURNITURE anp PIANOFORTE
WAREHOUSEMEN,
CABINETMAKERS, UPHOLbI ERERS
BEDDING MANUFACTURERS.
Show Rooms and Manufactory:
SPRING anu O’CONNELL SIREEIS.


Wolfe’s Schnapps, the purest spirit procurable.
Wolfe’s Schnapps for lowness of spirits.
Ask for Wolfe's Schnapps and take no o her.
If out of sorts try Wolfe’s Schnapps.
Wolfe’s Schnapps cheers the mind and body.
Wolfe’s Schnapps—for the liver and kidneys.
ALLCOCKS POROUS PLASTERS are sold
by all Chemists, in various sizes, from 1/1| to 22/6
«e sure you get Allcock’s.
Dr. mmn mm, m,d„
(F.R.C.8., Ed.; M.K.f’.S., Eng.,)
SPECIALIST.
157 Elizabeth Street, Hyde Park,
SYDNEY.
A 1 PUOAIKJNS are invited from GENTLE
~n competent to undertake EDITOR-
omt ot i he Australian Republican, Charters
lowers. Applicants must state terms and enclose
references. HY. HUBBARD, Secretary, The
Australian Republican, Charters Towers.
OTICE.-W. BUSHELL is not authorised
to represent Ihe Bulletin in any way.
IVTOTIOE to Agents, Subscribers and others
• 111 New Zealand.—Mr. J. V. HOUKIG AN
fn.-Tm 01 i y authorised Travelling Representative
loi J UK bULLETIN.
"ATOTTCE.—Advertisements for Current Week
i tTES?) 1 \Y 1 bC reccivecl LATEIi than 1 p.m. on
N
Buy Wolfe’s Schnapps by the bottle.
A good bed companion WolfeV Schnapps.
I
eioh t T- 1- . Unsth 4'-T IQ’J Depth 2-1"
'Paling
(LIMITED)
TS the most complete and perfect instnimont ever offered at the price'
X Seven Octaves, Full Trichord, Iron Frame, Patent Cheek Action,■ Brass’
f m ilatc ' ‘-''OSS-strung, requiring only the minimum of lunin,-. The tone'
Wa P |nut'casc C 3 ka - bnlllant " >d !“ v<9y elc g ailt B‘«k°and Gold or
This Piano is introduced by W. 11, PALIXG & CO,, Limited for U
purpose of meeting a long-felt demand for a good, reliable instrument at an
easy price, and thereby giving to the head of almost every household an
opportunity ot supplying his home with a first-class Piano at a price heretofore
jpaia lor a much inferior instrument.
Insist upon having Wolfe’s Schnapps,
Mind you get Wolfe’s Schnapps.
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
Use Batho’s Baking Powder,
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
Amusements,
AIE T Y OUTrI
Under the direction of Mr. G. Wotherspoon.
LITTLE LORD EAUNTLEROY.
LITTLE LORD EAUNTLEROY.
LITTLE LORD EAUNTLEROY
Original Company. Original Scenery.
Prices-45., 35., and One Shilling. Box Plan at Nicholson’s.
Business Announcements.
Messrs. MAUDE & CO.,
Artists iu Natural Flowers,
Having engaged a competent Lady Artist from London
arc prepared to place before the public all the latest
i n Floral work Table decorations for Balls.
Weddings, and Dinner Parties receive special attention foi
which our visiting artist may be engaged.
Boquets, Wreaths, Presentation Baskets, Floral Designs
Sprays, and Buttonholes
are arranged in the latest London style at
oT Flowers,
141 King Street, SYDNEY.
Royal Exotic Nursery, Peakhurst, Hurstvillc.
NOUN TRY STOREKEEPERS, ETC.
Should write or call upon
R. M. MARKS & CO.,
—lmporters of—
Furniture, Pianofortes, Glass, Earthenware,
CHINA, FANCY GOODS, ELECTRO-PLATE,
<’2 R AKS »V TO It AFFO NISTg SIINDKIEg
SOLE AGENTS FOR
Dawn Cigars and Salonica Turkish Cigarettes
Special Novelties in all Lines for Christinas Trade.
Prices on Application to—
. A.. 3MI. aMHem-Ssis & Go.,
Vickery’s Buildings, 74a Pitt Streeet, Sydney
AND AT LONDON.
Telephone, No. 919.
EL A DIE S,
CONSULT the Eminent
Specialist,
Ur. SPEER, 31 York-st.,
Sydney.
1 IbLib (Guaranteed), 55. ; post free.
-THE-
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL
FIRE
Insurance Society.
Established ... ... 1872.
Bonuses
OF
20 per cent. Paid Annually
since 1873.
1
r:AD Office
—THE
Oldest Mutual Fire Office
in Australia.
Claims promptly and liberally
settled. Fifteen days’grace
allowed for Renewal of Policies.
Lowest Current Rates charged.
lion. Georye Thornton , M.L.C.,
Chairman.
Head Office;
Corner Pitt' & King Streets,
SYDNEY.
Walter Church
Manager.
NOW OPE NT
MELBOURNE CUP,
/ 7
50,000 E»/t SO each.
50,000 at 3,0 each.
Address (please register letters) —
1890.
462 EXTRA.— 462.
400 EXTRA.-400.
Adam Bede,
C/o H.' N. ABBOTT,
Ask for the
Unequalled
“DAWN” 3d. CIGAR,
f
Of all
Tobacconists,
Store
AN D
Hotel
keepers.
Vi .-’o Ajjonts s A. ]\f.
MARKS & Co., 74a PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
©
1 LSHMEBE
BOUQUET
%£TSO^
o
All the essentials for wide popularity are fully
met in Colgate’s CASHMERE BOUQUET Toilet
Soap and Perfumes, which can be obtained from
all chemists and dealers in perfumery.
THOSE WHO SHAVE will at once be
delighted with COLGATE’S DEMULCENT
SHAVING SOAP.
COfd) MEDAL, PARIS. 1881).
Au Irish lady, residing on the North
Shore (Sydney), has amongst her curios a piece of
turf which she brought with her from the '* Quid
Sod ” 50 years ago.
Recommended by doctors—Wolfe’s Schnapps.
The Queensland Government are this
year giving the Northern blacks only half a blanket
each.
Mr. Augustus Morris, the JS.S.W. official
assignee, lias just been r bbed of several hundreds
of pounds by a young gentleman who blames it all
on the poor horses—as usual.
Miss, Stone, Melbourne’s first qualified
lady doctor, has now emerged from the suburbs
and boldly hung out her shingle in Collins-street
East among the male practitioners. Kays an
evening paper scribe “ Seated in a comfortable
chair, writing out a prescription with alarming
rapidity, surrounded with every evidence of con-
venience and cheerfulness, she' forms a peculiar
and profound picture.” Prodigious !
&ir Morville Wraxall, the English baronet
now teetotally lecturing in Tasmania, is, we pro
same, the grandson of Sir Nathaniel William
Wraxall, an East Indian civil servant who was
made a baronet in 1813, and subsequently became
known as the writer of memoirs, the voracity of
which subjected him incarceration in Newgate,
and occasioned the following caustic epigram ;
Men, measures ; seasons, scenes, facts all
Misquoting, mis-stating,
Misplacing, misdating—
Here lies Sir Nathaniel Wraxall.
Amusement of a profitable nature. Ladies,
make your own dresses by procuring one of our
dress stands ; they are indispensable for altering,
trimming, and re-arranging dresses. They are, in
fact, a household necessity. We make them to
fold up so as to go in trunks. Write for parti-
culars to Eastway Brothers, Dress Stand Makes,r
411 George-street, Sydney.
Editor Stead, encouraged by the success
of his “Review of Reviews,” contemplates start-
ing a periodical specially addressed to the religious
public. Stea,d has jumped our claim. The dream
of bur life has been to go to London, start a reli-
gious paper - and prey on the hypocrisy of J. Bull
and his womenkind. How thoroughly the Yankee
brigand Stanley (the Book Fiend of Exploration)
understands his greasy marks ! “I was asked
when leaving England,” said this latest idol of
Exeter Haul, “ what book I would like to take
with me and I said the Bible. I have since read
it right through three times in Africa.” (Great
applause.)
FOR LA GRIPPE (INELUENZA)
And all colds and bronchial affections the best
remedy is Bosisto’s Original Eucalyptus Oil. In-
ferior oils are bottled to resemble Bosisto’s.
Buyers should see that they get Bosisto’s oil, with
registered “Parrot ” brand on yellow label across
the cork. Accept no other, and avoid disappoint-
ment.
Allcock’s Porous Plasters.
—IN—
Chest, Liver, and Kidney Affections.
St. Yeryan Vicarage, Gram pound-road,
Cornwall, January, 1890.
Dear Sir,—l write to inform you that your
Allcock’s Porous Plasters ” are excellent—a real
blessing. Whatever I may say, I feel I cannot
praise them sufficiently, I have given away
hundreds amongst the poor and suffering, and I
cannot recall a single instance where they failed
to give relief. They have been used by’ me for
complaints in the chest, liver, kidneys, and spine,
with mirked results, in fact, I know of three
special oases out of many (one of chest, one of
liver, one of kidneys) where the sufferers had been
to the infirmary, tried many doctors, without any
benefit, and were told that nothing more could bo
clone. I gave them your plasters, and after a fair
trial of them the result was really wonderful.
The sufferer in the chest no longer complains of
weakness, has lost all distressing cough, and is
quite strong. The sufferer from liver complaint
no longer complains of indigestion and pains in
the side and between the shoulders, but is quite a
different person. The sufferer from kidney com-
plaint no longer lies in bed nine months in the
year in agonies, but is able to get out of doors
every day, and is free from pain. I shall recom-
mend these plasters wherever I go.—With all
good wishes for the New Year, yours very grate-
fully,
JAMES ARTHUR KEMP, Minister.
A policeman at Colling wood (Vic.) volun-
tarily came forward to give evidence for a pri-
soner, the effect of which was an acquittal. What
an extraordinary policeman !
r L T? mm . lttee °f. en quiry has reported that
Lord Hind lip and bis partners were not guilty of
any fraud in disposing of the Allsopp Brewery
business to a limited company, but that they
ought to refund half-a-nrillion of the purchase-
money. The judgment is so miserably illogical as
to suggest that the committee must have summed
up on the company’s beer. On the other hand,
>o Hind ip crowd are showing sober consistency
ot conduct m hanging on to the half-million like
grim death.
When Herbert Bismarck (who is to marry
6 i ■K°. uri £ biarl of Dudley’s sister) visited Italy
with his father he pushed rudely past an Italian
statesman. “ Gently, sir, gently, ” said the Italian.
I am Count Herbert von Bismarck,” was the
pompous reply. , Like the flash of a rapier came
the cutting reply-—‘(Count Herbert von Bismarck!
Ihe excuse, sir, is insufficient; the explanation,
however, is ample.”
Dr. Neild says he has made 500 post-
mortem examinations on murdered infants, and
these involved at least 1500 murderesses; where-
fore he pleads, almost with tears in his eyes, for a
foundling hospital, urging that infanticide is
worse than illegitimacy; but no, Society doesn’t see
it. Oh, Mrs. Grundy, you murderess ! There
was much fine newspaper writing, some time ago,
over nine murderesses touching at Melbourne, en
route for New Caledonia.
The Choicest Jewellery. Daiims & Co., King-st. Arcade.
The No. 1 North Glaum ire claim, Gympie,
during the year raised 15,000oz. gold at the ex-
pense of only £1000. The Brilliant claim, Char-
ters Towers, has just crushed 4000oz. smelted
gold from I860 tons stone.
A BOON TO HUMANITY.
’Tis food for young and food for old,
It gives new life and vital power,
There’s nothing in the market sold
Like Peueu/s patent Snow-white Floue.
Queensland is hiring a man to teach it to
pickle pig's, but a local scribe says that “ Mr.
Watson, with all his experience, will not be able
to make streaky bacon out of blubber, fed on
grass, skim-milk and blackfellows. ”
Land at Perth, W.A., the best Investment
Plans from Intercolonial Investment Co., Ltd.
9b Bathurst-street, Sydney.
Bona-Fide announcement. Highest cash price
given for all kinds of gent’s left off clothing.
Dress-suits for sale or hire. Letters promptly
attended to by QUITTENTON BROS., Ill
Russell street, MELBOURNE. [New number,
Lome Doone ” Blackmore (who is also a
market-gardener) lately entered into a controversy
with the editor of the Fruit Farm Review, who
observes —“We are told that Mr. Blackmore is an
author. We do not know it as a fact. We never
heard of him as such before ; but if this is so, we
should advise him to keep to what he understands.
But maybe he failed even as an author.” Good,
old agricultural editor!
We read that “Lord Carington has kept
a diary since he has been in N.S. W. He writes
it xip at regular intervals, and the sheets are
[ printed at the Government Printing Office.
I [Eh !] His diary may be j robably printed for
private circulation, but his book, which will be
founded on the diary, will be given to the public by
■ t.l<(4 publishing of Longman’s. It will
ce pninca aoor-.u Occooer, 18'jl.”
AN IMPORTANT COMMINICATION.
PROM AN U.S. NAVAL OFFICER.
TJ.S. Navy Yard,
Mare Island, Cal.
Mrs, An enforced residence of two years in
this abominable climate of California made me the
subject of most painful attacks of rheumatism,
during which I was totally unfit to perform the
arduous duties of my office. Consultation upon
my case by eminent naval and other surgeons
failed to afford me the slightest relief, and my
distress was much aggravated by the fact that my
physical disability would result, under the law, in
my retirement from active service on the eve of
my promotion to the grade of commander. At
this period Dr. Hoyle, a friend of mine, recom,
mended to me St. Jacobs oil, the happy result of
the use of which has constrained me, in my deep
gratitude, to hereby acknowledge the complete
and wonderful cure it has wrought in my case.
I am, sincerely yours,
J. B. Coghlan, U.S.N.
St. Jacobs oil is peculiar to itself. It is made
from drugs which no other remedies are made
from. They are gathered from the four quarters
of the globe, and are made after the most scientific
principles. St. Jacobs oil is an outward applica-
tion the cost of which is trifling, but to the sufferer
a bottle of it is worth its weight in gold.
THE GREATEST VALUE
in St. Jacobs oil appears to lie in its superior
penetrating powers ; reaching the seat of the
disease, it is able to ease pain almost instantly,
hence the term applied, “It acts like magic. ” St.
Jacobs oil is endorsed by all classes of the com-
munity—from those of humblest position to the
most eminent people in the world.
Lady Florence Dixie says; “That having
used St. Jacobs oil for pain, the result was most
marvellous.”
Henry Tollemache, M.P., states: “That he
received great benefit from the use of St. Jacobs
oil.”
The Rev. W. J. Caulfield Browne, M.A.,
says : “St. J acobs oil is a most wonderful remedy.
It eases pain almost instantly.”
The Rev. Edward Singleton, M.A., D.D.,
says ; “ St. Jacobs oil relieved all pain directly it
was applied.”
The Right Rev. Bishop Richardson says :
“St. Jacobs oil is most valuable in rheumatism.”
Mr. William Buchanan, Engineer in the
Cunard S.S. Company’s Service, says: “St.
Jacobs oil saved my'life. I was given up by three
medical men to die.”
No home can afford to be without a bottle of
this, valuable remedy always handy, and pur-
chasers would do well to observe that they get the
genuine article, and not one of the many spurious
preparations made up to trade upon the enormous
reputation which St. Jacobs oil has built up for
itself upon the solid foundation of sterling merit.
T HAT ’ s ALL .
“ I don’t often indulge in profanity,” remarked
a young student, “ but there’s one thing that pro-
vokes me dreadfully, and that is the eccentricity
of my watch. It’s an English lever that cost me
£4 Ids. to buy, and another £2 to clean and regu-
late, during the two years I’ve carried it. Now
it’s always gaining or losing with an impartiality
that would be charming if it was not so-con-
foundedly inconvenient in the matter of trains arid
so on. If I had listened to reason and yielded less
to pride in the outset, I should have bought a
Waterbury, and have had the correct time ever
since. Wonderful watch, that Waterbury, and
always reliable.”
THE WATERBURY has received eulogistic
notices from all the leading journals in Great
Britain and Ireland. It is a genuine, reliable,
accurate, and durable keyless watch, in nickel
silver, ever bright case. It runs twenty-eight
hours with one winding, regulates to a minute a
month, and rarely gets out of order.
To be obtained from all respectable storekeepers
and dealers throughout the colonies. Price :
'‘E ’ (the old long-winding favorite), 135."
♦sd. ; Series “ J or “L ” (the new short-winding
marvels), 20s. each.
DON’T BE MISLED
INTO BUYING CHEAP SWISS WATCHES
UNDER FANCY NAMES.
The Waterbury Watch is not alone the cheapest
watch m the world to buy, but it is also the
cheapest to have repaired. Repairs are charged
for according to requirements ; but in no case do
they exceed 2s. 6d., except by mutual agreement.
The Waterbury Watch Company’s Repair Depot
is at 56 Margaret-street. Note the address.


Business Announcements.
PR DM & O'..
Hats made to Order-
vmanufacturef
IBmS,,
IVJERCER^
Morley’s Hosiery.
438 George Street, Sydney.
Branch-678 George Street , Brickfield Hill.
MANHOOD
REGAINED AND RETAINED.
T&g Australian Medloal
Institute,
35 OASTLERBASH STEEZT,
Founded for the Treatment of Nervous, Skit!
Blood, and Chronic Complicated Diseases, is
the Only Reliable Medical institute in Austral-
asiamaking a Speciality of PRIVATE DISEASES.
DR. JENKINS
Treats sucessfully all forms of Nervous
Chronic, and Private Diseases, no matter o
how long standing or however complicated.
TO THE UNFORTUNATE
■Who through ignorance and
Ktrpno’th. become ambitiouless in me, eu
feebledVu power, audio whom existence is scarcely
bearable, Dr. Jenkins says
COME AND BE HEALED
As the terms upon which patients are treated, viz ,
NO CUKE NO FEE. enables all sufferers to avail
themselves of this remarkable opportunity of
obtaining a speedy and effectual cure Da J nkm
wishes it to be distinctly understood that ho does
not rely upon the issue of books, more tjf t
written by the persons whose names theyhea .a d
are mere traps for the unwary, but houestay ai
straightforwardly treats his patients according
the dictates of a sound medical training.
NOTE THE ADDRESS
The AUSTRALIAN MEDICAL INSTITUTE,
35 CASTLEREAGII STREET (Corner Moorc-street),
.no. SYDNEY*
Jr MTBOWICI A SO\, Manufacturers and Ini
porters of Superior Oak-Tanned Leather Belting,
and every description of Leather Goods for Mining and
Engineering purposes.
All Goods bearing the above Trade Mark are warranted
to give entire satisfaction, or may be returned at the
Makers’ expense. The Pioneer Oak-tanned Leather
Belting is used exclusively by the N.S.W.
Over 200,000 running in Australia. The cheapest anc
best Belting in the world. Send for P«ces aiid catalo o ues
162 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
V:-i *A
■-'.i
-
TH t
ROYAL
EDINBURGH
CASTLE
Specialßeserve
AAA
*6l
OLD
SCOTCHWHISKY
ftaAtlj/fod'i .
&p&.j}/uyjrtLUou
m,
KOVAL
Edinburgh Castle
WHISKY.
JjC- « *
Special Reserve.
In Square Bottles.
This Whisky was
selected by our Gene-
ral Manager, Mr. Jas.
Cullen, during his
recent visit to Scot-
land, and through its
purity, age and mag-
nificent bouquet, has
already secured the
premier position inthe
market. In cases, qrs.
and octaves. To be
had Duty Paid from
any of the Wholesale
Wine and Spirit Mer
chants and Distribu-
ting Houses, and in
Bond only from the
SOLE AGENTS,
William Campbell k Co M Limited*
58 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
>\'As x r
sfc,J
V
H /
(/
i ii/Ly.
m
1 c X'd fif’y centsli ter know if them i
IN DOUBT.
s Jim Jamsh or signs of early Spring.”—Life.
Gt-ranci Pier Hotel. Manly.
ELECTRIC PHOTO-ENC. CD- 8 BmDGt-STv SYDNEY-
LATIMER A BROOKE •
This Hotel has been Ke-Furnished throughout.
■ ■ Proprietors.
Cuisine and Comfort a Speciality.
A.SLX‘O7a.s , Exchange Hotel, Sydney.
—“■
iniriiMi'imwp
■I \ m
6 *1 »'
i p
* ■
lii
~n r
■ -
r-ri
**
m
Adjoining the Sydney Exchange.
_ (
Mining, Financial and General Mercantile Intelligence
Posted several times DAILY in the Building.
TELEGRAPH, POST and MONEY ORDER OFFICES on the PREMISES.
This Hotel lias been thoroughly renovated and re-furnished, and is now unrivalled for comfort
Aarons’ Exchange Hotel Co. (Limited*, Proprietors.
130
You SmoKe ?
Ti , , so far above all other brands in quality and flavour that it cannot be
If so, treat yourself to an article so rar a, he DEAD BIRD ” brand. In colour it is a rich
excelled, ihe iobawo \v ai y A j Tobacco ever introduced. We only ask you to send
dark brown, and is the the Long Cut, and, after having once tried it, you will never*
for a Single 1 lug or a t •1 ’ \y o c£m aen( j you a gma ll parcel of the tobacco in any form—as a
Mfxtm-e Long Cut or Curly CuL for pipe only This particular cut does not require any rubbing up.
We can send you any size plug from an ounce to a pound weight.
For lib. Plugs
For Long Cut,
|lb. pkts.
6/-
7/ -
PRICES:
Single Plug, as sample, Jib ... 1/G
Single Packet, as sample, Jib ... 2/
Smd stamps for any of these amounts, and we mil forward to any part ofJST.S. W. (post free.)
SOLE
AGENTS
CRAIG & AITKEH, 680 George Street, Sydney.
JONES’ SEWING MACHINES
FOR THE BOOT AND TAILORING TRADES.
THE BEST MANUFACTURING MACHINES IN EXISTENCE.
Now Perfected, the New No. 3 and No. 4 Machines on an Entirely New System.
STOCK JUST LANDING.
Ij'arlelgU, Nett Helm,
1 6
& C CX,
tanners and leather merchants,
YORK S T IBt IE IE T , + S "52” ID TsT IE .
Sole Agents for the above for New South Males and Queensland.
-(*)-
. t fnr the HOOT MANUFACTURING TRADE In all Details, including MACHINERY,
MUPORTV'^ r^L?ATini^ l9 &^^ / and'of Spkca.. L.nes: .Ver.ess Gloss, Snl.n .N. 115.., Nubian
IMI OHTL^LKAtm.i Too , s and Materials. |*r Indents Executed on favourable Terms.
Medical.
DR. RICHARDS.
• ■ ,i- ■; ■" ■-
CO
m a
p|W
WJW
This eminent Specialist, Founder, and Chief
Surgeon of the long-established and favourably-
mown Dispensary that now bears his name, re-
ceived his medical education in the leading colleges
and hospitals of Europe. He has devoted a life-
time to the study of
PRIVATE, NERVOUS, AND SKIN
DISEASES. *
He has by profound research thoroughly investi-
gated their origin, traced their deadly sources and
insidious dissemination, and ascertained the surest
and safest methods by which they may be eradi-
cated, with these widely recognised qualifications
combined with unswerving faithfulness to hi i
patients, he has during his practice, extending
over FORTY YEARS, attained a well-deserved
pre-eminence in their treatment. His practice
embraces diseases which probably cause more un-
happiness than any other class of troubles that
afflict mankind.
YOUNG MEN
who suffer trom the results of early follies, trans-
gressions or excesses of more nature age, bladder
difficulties, a whitish or dark ropy sediment in
the water, accompanied by slight burning or
smarting sensation, Headaches, Drowsiness during
the day, circles round the eyes, Giddiness,
irregularity of the bowels, specks before the eyes,
bashfulness, discontentedness, weakness or pains
in the back, Liver or kidney complaints, dreams,
buzzing noises in the ears pimples, a
fear that something dreadful is about to happen,
weak stomach, yellow or blood-shot eyes, impure
blood, hasty, uncontrollable temper, hacking
cough, who cannot marry, nervousness in society,
wakefulness, palpitation of the heart, general
weakness, and other symptoms which lead to in-
sanity and death, should consult him, for he has
mastered these difficulties. On receipt of 6d. m
stamps he will send secure from observation in a
plain wrapper, postage
FREE, A LARGE CLOTH-BOUND
BOOR.
Showing plainly how all diseases of the private or
nervous system may be cured thoroughly and per-
manently without unnecessary expence. this
book will prove a valuable companion, and even
though you be perfectly well its general inform-
tion and prescription may assist you in restoring
some poor friend to health even after his case has
been pronounced incurable by his medical at-
tendant.
ONE POUND IS SUFFICIENT TO
SEND
for Remedies necessary for the cure of NER-
VOUS DEBILITY, Should you require medical
treatment, as procrastination is sometimes dan-
gerous, it would be advisable for you to sit down
miietlv in your chamber and write to the doctor.
dotnlUng every experienced symptom. Ho will
on receipt of such a letter, write you, promptly
and courteously, a candid and straightforward
oponion of your case. If you do not think you
understand the case, send for his famous medical
work the price of which is but sixpence ; enclosed
in the volume will be found a list of carefully-pre-
pared questions, which will, in all probability,
assist you materially in describing your ailmdnt.
Dr. Richards uses nothing but the purest, remedies,
and never prescribes mercury under any circum-
stances. The moment letters are carefully per-
used and answered they are destroyed by fire,
I and patients may rest assured that their cases
will remain a secret between the doctor and
themselves. Dr. Richards has successfully treated
1 nearly 25,000 cases since coming to Australia, and
has permission from at least 10,000 persons to
show their written evidence of his success. All
communications should be addressed
Dr. RICHARDS,
7 spring 1 Street
(Off Pitt Street North)
s YT-
i gure to mention this paper when writing
CONSULTATION TREE.


Shipping.
IJUDDART, PARKER & CO.’S LINE
STEAM TO
MELBOURNE and TASMANIA.
From Huddart, Parker’s Wharf.
For Time and Date of Sailing, see daily papers.
The magnificent steamships, BUEBUMBEET and
ELIiN'OAMITE, have established an unrivalled reputation
for their speed and aeeommodaf ion, and their large size
ensures passengers a maximum of comfort. The saloon
cabins are light, airy and very. roomy. The dining saloon
is full width of the ships, also magnificent music room,
with gentlemen’s smoking room and splendid promenade
deck. Fore-cabin is on the main deck-lofty and well-
ventilated, perfect sanitation and ample lavatories. Fore-
cabin passengers provided with victuals and rugs. Inspec-
tion invited on days of sailing,
FARES to MELBOURNE :
Saloon, Single >M g g
„ Return 2 5 0
Forecabin ... ... ... ... 10 0
FARES to LAUNCESTON :
Saloon, Single ... r ... ... £2 5 0
„ Return ... ... ... 315 0
Fbrecabin ... ... ... ... 10 0
EARES to HOBART ;
Saloon, Single ... £lO 0
„ Return 110 0
Return Tickets available for Six Mouths.
For Freights apply
HUDDART, PARKER &
(Limited).
Office and Wharf: Foot of Margaret Street, Sydney.
jyREOT SERVICE TO ENGLAND.
PENINSULAR AND ORIENTAL STEAM
NAVIGATION COMPANY.
-T l h ®, Co l n^an^: s . Ro .' a! Mail Steamships (under contract
with the Imperial, New South Wales, Victorian, and South
Australian Governments) will be dispatched from their
Wharf, Circular Quay, as under, for LONDON, calling- at
Melbourne, Adelaide, Albany, Colombo, Aden, Brindisi,
Malta, Gibraltar, and Plymouth.
Steamers.
Oceana .. 6362
Massilia .. '4918
Arcadia .. '6362
Britannia . |6257
Coromandel 4499
Commander.
P. S. Tomlin
0. Fraser .. ..
W. B. Andrews
J Orman
!J. Reeves
d.
9 » -.5-1 -u.
__ <1
July 14 July 191Ju1y23
July 28 Aug. 2 Aug-. 6
Aug. 11 Aug. 16 Aug 20
Aug. 25 Aug. SOSep. 3
!Sep. 8 Sep. 13|Sep. 17
And henceforth every alternate week.
RESERVED CABINS ON MODERATE TERMS
SALOON PASSENGERS MAY BREAK THEIR JOURNEY
The arrangements for SECOND SALOON PASSENGERS
nnwnfreiw! 1 thoroughly re-organised, the accommodation
now offered is unsurpassed. Passage-money can be paid
here for passages from England. Liberal concessions made
throm-li in T ( r S3e rV e, ' S ’ Cai J°l and P areels are booked
ii i i Ind ‘ a ’ 9 hl " a > and Ja P a «- Cargo and parcels
will not be received after 3 p.m. on the day previous to
Olflcef’ all n f lfon ' lation apply at the Company’s
George-street. A. MACLEAN Acting A<-ent
ITORDDEUTSCHER LLOYD
■“ IMPERIAL GERMAN MAIL
Passengers are carried according to the requirements of
the English Passenger Acts of 1885 and 1863
MONTHLY LINE OF DIRECT STEAMERS
from
MELBOURNE, and ADELAIDE
to SOUTHAMPTON, ANTWERP, and BREMEN, via
COLOMBO, Aden, Suez, and Genoa,
. taking passengers for London
connecting from PORT SAID by DIRECT MAIL and
PASSENGER LINE to BRINDISI
wiU bo despatched as follows (if practicable)
Steamer.
| Leave j Leave I . v .°,
Commander. | Sydney j Mel- (Adelaide
: noon, bourne. I ® en ia-
■ phore.
Sailer
L. . „ L 1 890 ! IS9O j 1890
\V. Reimkast nj July 16 July 19 July 22
Nurnberg .. )H. Englebart (Aug. 13 Aug. 16Aug. 19
_ And thereafter every four weeks.
IASSAGE MONEY from SYDNEY
„„„ £l4 to £57 10s.
MON?Kt REDuSrSrES for NINE aUd TWELVE
via Siimpton. 081 ' 8 ’ 0 at '° b °° ked throU = h to New York,
Special facilities are afforded for bringing out relatives
payment of th° m the United an*d Europe byp^!
U?. f T mone y m Australia. P |
Foi FREIGHT, PASSAGE, and all further particulars
apply to FREDK. BETZ & CO.. Agents, 5 0'Con„ell-street!
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF NEW
ZEALAND, Limited.
SAN FRANCISCO ROYAL MAIL SERVICE
OVERLAND ROUTE TO ENGLAND VIA SAN
FRANCISCO AND NEW YORK,
Calling: at
AUCKLAND and HONOLULU,
Avoiding alike the heat of the Red Sea and the cold
tt. ,1 ~ °f Cape Horn.
unden— Weda^eSntS
afr a auiy qualified surgeon.
ReTSra fng ChaL\effor W sh h E ‘ e6tric Li » ht atld with a
plentLls^l y *
Plentiful supply of £heVoyage
European d«snatt^„!| o^ a " ° r . ihvou ? h
Inmap. ° f the
pirst-cla R ss UGH FARE T 0 liverpool -
_TKEUK. w. J ackson! Manager.
H I STORY or BOTANY BAY
PRICE— ONE SHILLING.
Shipping.
QOMPAGNIE DES MESSAGERIES MARI-
i SYDN^to^ONDON.
| OVERLAND FROM MARSEILLES via PARIS.
Steamers under postal contract with the Government of
France, calling at MELBOURNE ADELAIDE, KING
GEORGE’S SOUND, MAKE, SUEZ, and PORT SAID.
Passengers hooked to KURRAOHEE, BOMBAY
MAURITIUS, and EAST COAST of AFRICA.
The service is carried on by powerful steamers of 4000
tons and 3000 effective h.p., built expressly for the Aus-
tralian and New Caledonian line, which will be despatched
as follows:
Steamers. I Commander. ! Lea 7® s Y dne y- Leave Mel-
at 11 a. m. hourne4p.ni
YARRA .. Boulard..
AUSTRAL’ENDidier ..
| July 25 July 28
August 25 ! Augiist 28
And thenceforward on the 25th of each month.
. Fates of passage-money to Marseilles from £2O to £65
mcluding table wines and Suez Canal dues ola passengers
RETURN TICKETS issued at the following
Thifd
Classic
£34 ;
£3O
Available 9 months
Available 12 months
Eng'lish interpreters meet through passengers fotf-
London on arrival of steamers at Marseilles, and aocom-
pany them to Paris and Calais. N.B.—Passengers’ 1 u"■ ( '-a° o
conveyed free of cost from Marseilles to London.”“For
freight, passage, and further particulars apply at the
Company’s Office, 15 Macquarie-place.
A. CONIL, Principal Agent.
Prospectus.
o shearers; station hands
FARM HANDS, LABOURERS, ROUSE
ABOUTS, AND BUSHMEN GENERALLY
OF ALL COLONIES.
Tla. e Land, Trade,
—AND —
Labour Union of Australia.
Has been established. Its objects are
1. To unite all the above classes in one body, but
with respect toshearers it is intended to apply
to them as station hands, which very many of
them often are.
2. To raise wages, to obtain better tucker, and
men’s huts being supplied.
3. Generally to advocate the interests of its mem-
bers. The strength of the Union will during
next general shearing be put forth in support
of the above objects. That the Union is a
fighting one and bona fide is proved in the
strike against Messrs. Chaffey Bros., Limited.
Men, come and join us ! Though only lately
started we have proved the metal we are made
of, as the public are aware from the late
reports in the Press.
Entrance Fee and Annual Subscription, Ss,
A. Strong and Honest Committee of Managemen
are at the head of affairs.
CoMMmBK of Management Chairman, Thomas Allen
Vice-Chairman, James Laverty; Messrs. Kelly, Davis,
Constance, Hood, Saunders, Curwood, Black, Meldrum’
Thompson, Salsbury, Allen, Fears, and Walton Trea’
surer,s: Messrs. M‘oleod, Mills, and Wilcock. Trustees-
Not yet appointed. Auditors; Messrs. Yule (of Williams
and Yule Storekeepers), and Fred. Fleetwood, Land
Agent and Accountant. Bankers : The National Bank of
Australasia,
WE HAVE MONEY AND GRIT.
After this year both the entrance fee and
annual subscription will be largely increased
but members joining now it is expected will only
hereafter have to pay the annual subscription of
f- ' xl -> they will have the fighting to do at the
first start off.
Prospectus, Members’ List, Tickets, etc., upon
application to the undersigned, by letter or
personally.
Post Office Orders to be made payable to—
ARTHUR TREYMAYUE,
Secretary and Manager,
Offices,. Lang tree Avenue Hall,
Mildura, Victoria.
Agents in different towns, at sheds, and travel-
hng wil! be at once appointed. Business people
in all districts required to act as agents on usual
terms of commission. Apply with references as
cibove.
Medical.
The Male Generative Function
IN
Health and Disease,
BY
Dr. ALEX. PATERSOR,
M.A., M.D.; F.K.C.S., Ed.; M.R.C.S., Eng-.
PRICE, 2s. Gd.
O' IN’IONS OF THE PRESS :
Valuable medical work—the Doctor is a quali-
fied man and speaks with authority.”— Town and
Country Journal.
Can recommend it as a work written by a
gentleman who has attained a very high status in
Jhis profession.” —Manning River Times.
“It sets forth scientific truths which, in the in-
terests of individuals and society, should be more
generally disseminated.” —BathurstFree Press.
Society would be all the better if people only
gave a little of their reading time to such valuable
medical works as Dr. Paterson has in this instance
given to them.”— Mudgee Independent.
The author not only fully understands the
perils which beset youth and manhood, but he can
point out the remedies.” — Cobar and Louth
Herald.
“Dr. Paterson, M.A., M.D., E.R.C.S.E., is a
high authority on the matters he deals with.”—
COONAMBLE INDEPENDENT.
“The work is well written, and far away the
best we have read on the subject. ’’-Wilcannia
Times.
The subject is treated in a manner which
shows the author thoroughly understands it.”—
Fielding Star, N.Z.
The book cannot be too widely circulated, and
should be in the hands of every person, male or
female,”— Poverty Bay Independent, N.Z.
Totally different from anything else of the
kind which has come under our notice.” —Bruce
Herald, N.Z.
“It is a work which every young man should
read and lay to heart.” —Border Post.
157 Elizabeth Street, Hyde Park,
SNriDiisriEi^r.
Consultation by Letter, £l.
EMBROCATION
<
~v j N '
i
T
){ I
f
RAIN'S FAMILY & COMMERCIAL HOTEL,
PRINCES STREET,
(Opposite 0.P.0.)
3D TJ IST IE ZD I IDT, IST.Z.
ALEX. PALME it .. .. Proprietor.
First Prize:
MELBOURNE EXHIBITION.
Ewiagf’s
Indelible
Markins* Ink.
Approved and Patronised by Vice-Royalty and
the Elite op the Australasian Colonies.
far
It may be well recommended.—Signed Wm Johnston ” ’ 1 iesistm S attempts to wash out.
LICHTJVER & CO.,
SYDNEY:
318 GEORGE STREET
BRISBANE
9 ELIZABETH STEEET
PHOTOGRAPHIC
-STOCK-
IMPORTERS.
K
Mu
tsr SEND FOR OUR NEW ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE •»
—OK— *
CAMERAS, LENSES, CHEMICALS, MAGIC LANTERNS
And all Articles appertaining to PHOTOGRAPHY.
CHEAP
OUTFITS.
Business Announcements.
TURPIN & BRIAN,
Wholesale and Family Grocers,
623 George Street, Sydney,
ARE THE
< iii:ai‘i:,st j;ets in iii<> nrv!
A Trial Solicited.
WHITE SUGAR, 2|d. per lb.
ROLLER FLOUR, ss. 501 b. bug.
SPERMS, sd.
MAIR’S SPICED & FRIED HERRINGS,
G|d. per tin.
Large Pottle W. SAUCE, (id.
„ PICKLES, Gd.
COCOA, 4gd. per packet.
41b. Bar SOAP, Gd.
NEW DATES, 3d. per lb.
i SARDINES, 3s. lid. per dozen.
Box TEA, 10s. Gd., good and cheap.
51b. WHITE SUGAR and 11b. TEA, 2a.
NOTE THE ADDRESS:
623—George Street—623
Haymarket, SYDNEY.
(Opposite Square and Compass Hotel.)
Public Companies.
The Australian Mercantile Loan and
Guarantee Go. (Limited).
Head Office :
CORNER MARKET and PITT STREETS*
SYDNEY.
Melbourne—2B3 Collins-street East.
Brisbane—Corner Edward and Elizabeth Streets.
Newcastle-37 Hunter-street.
SPECIAL NOTICE.
Ihe London Offices of the Company are now
open for the transaction of business, situate at
No. 110 Canon Street, E.C.
The Company grant immediate advances upon
approved securities, for fixed terms, or repayable
by instalments. J
Interest Allowed on Deposits:
3 months ... G per cent.
A. MILLER ... General Manager.
THE
Australian Banking Company
LIMITED.
PITT aiul MARKET STREETS, STIMET,
Incorporated under the Companies Act, 187/,.
Authorised Capital, £500,000, in 100,000 Shares of £5 each
Subscribed Capital, £150,000 ; Paid-up, 100,000.
FRANCIS ABIGAIL, M.L.A.,
Chairman of the Board of Directors.
, A i Bl ;t nch of the Bank has been opened at Goulburn
under the management of C. H. Atkinson, Esq. (lately
Blanch Manager of the Bank of New South Wales) for the
transaction of General Banking Business
The Bank has paid its Shareholders a dividend of 10 per
cent, every half-year since its formation. 1
The Bank transacts all usual banking business in every
particular. '
Special advantages granted to Commercial Clients.
Overdrafts granted against deposit of Deeds.
THE HIGHEST RATES OF INTEREST GIVEN FOR
FIXED DEPOSITS.
The Share Register is now open for the allotment of
Shares—New Issue.
By order of the Board of Directors.
RODERICK M‘NAMARA, Manager.
Bank™ 3 a^icafcion for Sllares may be obtained at the
Medical.
v- N
ROSE’S
fcul
G
v"
ES/T
a
Hi
mam
T'HIS valuable Lotion is guaranteed to cure SWELLING:
INFLAMED EYES and UDS>
DIMNESS ObSIGHT., &c. It will be found very bene"
ficial and cooling to those who have weak eyes, or whose
work compels them to strain their eyes. Highly
recommended by the leading Oculists. ”
Manufactured only by the Proprietor,
H. A. ROSE
Dispensing and Manufacturing Chemist,
531 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Wholesale by the Proprietor and all Wholesale Houses.
Established ISIS. Bij Post 3a. Gd.
IBS'" Manufacturer of Dr. SOUTHAN’S GOUT and!
RHEUMATIC PILLS.
“ A Golden Shanty,”
PRICE-ONE SHILLING.


If in need of a stimulant take Wolfe's Schnapps
If your fiver troubles you take Wolfe’s Schnapps.
If asked to drink, call for Wolfo’s Schnapps.
Use IiATHO’s Halving Powder.
| JUse Batho’s Baking Powder.
The Choicest Jewellery. Dahms & Co., King-st. Arcade.
STAMPS FOR COLLECTIONS; 150 choice
Foreign, all different, including Haiti, Heligoland, Bui.
garia, Bolivar, St. Lucia, Panama, etc., post free, 5s 2d ;
50 different Australian, Fiji, Samoa and Tonga, 5s 2d post
free. Price list of Stamps, Albums, etc., gratis. High
prices paid for old Australian Stamps, 1850 to 1860 issues,
or old collections of any kind. D. A. VINDIN & CO.,
Foreign Stamp and Coin Depot, 11 Victoria Arcade,
Elizabeth Street, Sydney, and at Hamburg.
Government Advertisements,
f
Department of Public Works,
Sydney, July 2, 1890.
mENDERS FOR PUBLIC ’ WORKS AND
X SUPPLIES.
For Conditions, see Government Gazette.
TENDERS for the Works, &0., specified below
will be received at this Department until 11 o'clock
a.in. on the dates mentioned.
WEDNESDAY, JULY 9.
Works, Culoairn-Corowa
Railway
I
Plans, &c., to be seen at
the office of Engineer-
in-Chief, Railway Con-
struction Branch, Phil-
lip-street
Bridge over Marthaguy Creek, road Warren to
Quambone, at Inglegar. <
Erection of Post and Telegraph Office, Silverton
(fresh tenders)
Repairs, &c. , Post and Telegraph Office, Muswell-
brcok
Construction of Hand-geared Punt for South-
ampton Feri’y, Clarence River
Removal of Rocks, Sand, &c., at Port Macquarie
Additions Court-house, Newcastle.
Repairs, &c., Courthouse, Bathurst
Purchase of about 80 tons Old Oast Iron and
Machinery lying at Eitzroy Dock, Biloela
Painting, &c., Coast Hospital, Little Bay
WEDNESDAY, JULY 16.
Works, Nyngan-Oobar
Railway
Plans, &c., to be seen at
the office of Engineer-in-
Chief, Railway Construc-
tion Branch.
Manufacture, &c., of a Steel Bridge over Yass
River in Connection with the Tramway
WEDNESDAY, JULY 23.
Works, Kiaxna-Nowra
Railway
Plans, &c., can be seen
at the above office of
the Engineer-m-Chief
Erection of Timber Bridge, with binged span, for
Belroore Kiver, near Gladstone.
Additions, &c., Court-house, Barraba
Additions Court-house, Broken Hill
Erection of Post and Telegraph Office, Temora
Construction of a Channel to carry off flood waters
near Kellick Creek, Macleay River
Bridges, Nos. 2, 3 and 4, in Approaches to Nar-
randera Bridge , •
Bridge over Gilargambone Creek, road Coonamble
to Dubbo
Erection of Post and Telegraph Office, Hunter s
Erection of Lodge, Centennial Park .
Erection of Gates, Randwick-road, Centennial
Park
Erection of Engineer’s Residence, lumping
Station, Lismore Water Works
Wharf, Bateman’s Bay, Erection
Additions, &c., Post and Telegraph Office, Wind-
sor.
WEDNESDAY, AUGUST 6.
Bridge, Hunter River at Aberdeen—Contract
No. I—Manufacture of Ironwork, &c. Con-
tract No. 2—Erection of Bridge.
Additions, &c., Police Barracks, Lambton
Repairs, &c., Court-house and Lock-up, Hillston
WEDNESDAY, AUGUST 20.
Bridge, Darling River at Wentworth—Contract
No. I—Manufacture, &c., Steel Lift Span on
Iron Piers. Contract No. 2—Erection of
Lift Span, &c., &c.
Finishing Trades, New Lands Office, Sydney.
WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 15.
Manufacture and Supply of 48-inch Wrought-
iron Water Pipes, special castings, &o.—Con-
tract No. 72, Sydney Water Supply. (Dupli-
cation of Pipe Line, Potts Hill to Sydney)
Manufacture and Supply of 48-inch Cast-iron
Water Pipes, special castings, &c.—Contract
No. 73, Sydney Water Supply. (Duplication
o' K »“ L ““’ *““• Hi “ &tof y slnTH.
The Referee
On Monday last O’Connor had another shy at
Stanbury for the same £5OO. This time there was no foul
or other excuse, and he was beaten, as he himself candidly
admits, from start to finish. The day was cold with a
very slight breeze, beautiful still water, and a clear course,
with a strong tide against the men. O’Connor stripped to
the buff, Stanbury rowed in a guernsey. The Cornstalk
looked fit and hearty, and must be an immensely
powerful man, judging'by the speed which he gets out of
the boat with his scratchy style of sculling. He is not to
be classed anywhere near Searle, Kemp, or Hanlan as a
scientific sculler—he sits up very erect in his boat, hardly
bends his back at all, and does not row his stroke out.
O’Connor rows with more finish, but does not seem to get
anv power into his work. How on earth the English, or
Americans, or any other set of people were fools enough
to back him at level money against Searle passes man’s
understanding. He ought to be a good man, having a
very good physique, and it may be that later on he will
show us or somebody else something better.
* * *
There were the usual crowds on the steamers
and on shore. How do the Sydney people find time and
money to go to these races in their thousands on week-
da 3 - s when they ought to be at work? Of course there
are a good many who live by sport. What with pedes-
trianism, pugilism, horse-racing by day and pony-racing
by night, there is plenty of work for the . large and in-
creasing class of gentry who “get their living by the
game,” whatever their particular game may be, but this
sort of talent don’t live on each other, or they would soon
be like the Kilkenny oats. The public find the money,
and, according to all accounts, the public is havd-up.
Trade is dull, it is impossible to get money in, there is
nothing doing in business, and yet when there comes a
boat-race thousands of people travel miles and pay pounds
and half-sovereigns on the steamers to see it. It is a
dark and inscrutable mystery, and we must give it up
and get on to the race.
% *
The men started from moored boats, and got
away well after a lot of false starting. The betting at the
start was four to one against O'Connor. In the first half-
dozen strokes he lifted his boat ahead, and at Uhr’s
Point he was a length to the good. Stanbury never
flustered nor hurried ; he simply plugged along, steering
a splendid course and keeping well clear of his opponent.
After leaving Uhr’s Point, the boats separated, O’Connor
going out into the full force of the tide, while Stanbury
crept along under the shelter of Blaxland’s, and both men
were doing all they knew. When they came together at
Blaxland's it was seen that Stanbury was a clear length
and a half ahead, and the race was over. O’Connor never
seemed to put any heart into it after this ; he followed
Stanbury down the river at a miserably slow pace, making
ay occasional feeble spurt, but the Shoalhaven man could
have gone away any time, and won by a quarter of a mile
if he had liked.’ They both got too far out into midstream
by the gasworks and the pace was very slow ; at Cabarila
O’Connor made a bit of a rush at his man, but could not
extend him, and the Australian paddled home a winder by
four or five lengths.
# « *
We had been told that Stanbury had plenty of
strength, but no sense or judgment in rowing. It appears
that he forced Joe Kemp ashore at Uhr’s Point in practice;
and from his stupidity in rowing right into O'Connor’s
course in the first race, we did not expect to see him dis-
play much judgment. But he might have been the most
seasoned veteran on the river, from the calm style in
which he picked his course and avoided the tide, during
the severe burst of the first mile. It will be a clever man
who will bustle or flurry Mr. Stanbury, now that he has
got confidence and a little experience ; all the same he is
not a champion sculler nor the makings of one; but
tremendous strength might enable him to beat Kemp
some day, though we do not believe he can do it now. Kemp
is undoubtedly a champion as men go nowadays, but how
did he collapse when he met a real flyer in Searle?
# * *
After the race O’Connor made a speech at his
quarters at Gladesville, and said that Stanbury was a
thorough gentleman, and the best man he had ever met.
He hacf rowed all the scullers of the world in England and
America, and Stanbury was the best—better than Searle.
Then Mr. Frank Punch made a speech. He said that he
had taken up O’Connor when the latter was left here
without friends, and that O’Connor was a thorough gen-
tleman and had acted squarely by him. Then O’Connor
interpolated that Mr. Punch was a thorough gentleman,
and said that he was going back to Canada to bring out a
man to beat Stanbury. There is one very good point
about O’Connor : he speaks well of those who treat him
well, and seems a manly, straightforward sort of fellow.
When he came past the crowds at Gladesville and Cabarila
on Monday he got a liberal hooting. It was a low-down
thing of the crowd to do, and they did it because O’Connor
boasted that he would have won the last race easily, only
for the foul. It is the first time a defeated man has been
hooted on the Parramatta River, and it ought to be the
last.
# * *
It was a pity Dooley was ever pitted against
the gigantic Goddard. As a clever exponent of the
“noble art” of boxing, and as teacher of aspiring ama-
teurs, “ Mick ” has no peer in Australia ; but when it
comes to right-down fighting, he is not built that way.
The w riter has seen Dooley, in a fight with the raw' ’uns,
show that he could take a pasting with the best of them,
but he is of so nervous a temperament that he is usually
beaten before he steps into the ring. Put him before any
of the middle-w’eights whom he knows he can best, and
Dooley is a terrible punisher; but directly reputation
stands in front of him he becomes helpless as a child.
Had Goddard been put before “ Mick ” quietly as a big
“mug” from the country in the presence of half-a-dozen
people, the writer believes that he would have been
smashed up in a few rounds. After several rounds had been
fought Dooley went in and “mixed it” with the Barrier
champion, and got on to him at will with both hands, but
he had fallen weak, and it only showed that he had thrown
his chance away in not fighting ere his strength evapor-
ated. Goddard is without exception the poorest boxer
with pretentions to championship that the writer has yet
seen, and a determined fighter—say Larry Foley at his
best—would have given him all his weight and strength
in, and dropped him to tatters. Foley was at the back of
Goddard, by the war', which looks as if L. F. is going to
bring the giant out, but he will need a tremendous deal of
schooling ere he becomes anything better than a clumsy
rusher. Goddard is inclined to be “ flash,” for he occasion-
ally addressed Dooley by a term of endearment used
among mariners, and when going to his dressing-room
“reckoned it was the best sanguinary fight ever seen in
that hall.” Opinions differed in that respect, however,
and the sooner Slavin come out and teaches Mr. Goddard
a lesson the better for his professional manners.
* # #
On paper no horses have better chances of
winning the Melbourne Cup than Lamond at 7st. 41b., and
Prince Consort at Bst. 11b., both being handicapped below
weight-for-age improvement on their good three-year-old
form over two-mile courses. However, the race isn’t run
on paper. # # #
Melbourne Sportsman, a pink-coloured oracle
of cab-ranks and shy cigar-shops, introduces its latest
racing prophet to creation with an apology which is an
unintentional satire on sporting-print literature. “ Not
accustomed to the regular use of the pen, this writers
articles may at first lack the fluency of the practised
pressman. Reliable information and not fine writ ing is
W ne public want, the ‘ tricks of writing ’ will come
a little practice.” ' Precious little practice is neces-
sity in the production of such fine writing —ye gods !
as is here referred to, and, seeing that the new genius
can already reel off the old mildewed idioms and worn-out
phrases of the training-stable, there was no occasion to
hint at his want of fluency. But as the editorial para-
graph describes him to be an “ educated gentleman,” we
may presume to call for scholarly explanations of certain
passages. For instance, “ This standard of success
dubbed excellence is gush, mere gush,” would puzzle
another Daniel come to judgment. And when we fall
across, “Good blood this, hut steeped in abeyance tor
some years past,” we find ourself wondering what the
educated gent, ought to be steeped in henceforth and
forever.
# * *
“In reply to the toast” —so we read about the
doings of the Australian cricketers in England. It’s the
toast that chokes ’em. The (alcoholically) hard-headed
English have got ’em on toast.
# # *
Nightingall, a wonderful jockey and trainer,
died in England a few- weeks ago, aged 86, and up to 84
years old he was in the saddle, exercising horses. Buckle, ■
an old-time jockey, rode races till past 60, so that the call-
ing is not inevitably killing, but the pinch comes in when
they have to waste.
* * *
Don’t you think it’s just about time that the
sculling fraternity got their boats coated with anti-fouling
composition ?
* * *
Pathetic advertisement from S.A. Advertiser :
rnHE Sports on the Adelaide Oval is Postponed till
L further notice in consequence of Molony going
amiss. W. Molony, Royal Admiral, Hindley-street.
# * #
Excellent entries were received for the compli-
mentary meeting, in Adelaide, to the veteran William
Filgate,- chief trainer of the famous Maribyrnong stud in
days gone by.
* * *
The fact that it has just been discovered that
the well-known sculler spells his name “Stanbury” and
not “ Stanshury ” reminds one that the OOmStalks are
rather addicted to inserting an extra “ s,” e.g., “ George’s-
strect ” instead of George-street.
* * *
The Prince of Wales has entered into a racing
confederacy with Baron Hirsch, the Parisian German-Jew
sJJ S3
All MEMI>
-«?-
C u s^omer •
•Wo,*fcr wkeut \Uc -—d yew coil "ikiS*
’•VviU./.-.'Halr J|| ■ '
C V 4. C s)tcl »ij- J axe j/ eU
fur ut. ■
pope-t jslccse c ’°f t / *f '
.'.nancier. Lord Marcus Beresford, ex-starter for the
Jockey Club, is to business manage the horses—tnat is to
say, lie and Baron Hirscb will prepare a balance-sheet for
Tummy, representing that the Heir Apparent has icon
much or little, just according to whether the stable has
won a little, or lost a lot. The Baron will write out a
cheque for the bogus profits in return for which Tummy
will slap his partner’s back in public and otherwise favour
him with marks of royal favour. This arrangement may
save the British taxpayer a trifle, and if Hirsch be satisfied
all veil und goot.
* * *
In a Notts v. Surrey match recently, Shrews-
bury and Gunn got together at 2C on the board, and they
kept together until stumps were drawn for the day. Score,
1 for 341. Shrewsbury made IC4 and Gunn 152, both, of
course, not out.
* # *
It was in a match, N.S.W. Permanent Artillery
v a Government department, that a noble captain had
slued a ball, and with the object of confusing the fieldsman
who was negotiating the catch, kept calling to the other
wicket, “Come away! come away!” In the meantime
the ball had been safely caught, and one of the fielding
Civil servants yelled (it was after luncheon), “ Why, you
bally old fool, you’re out 1” The warriors at once retired
from the wicket, and it was only after a most abject
apology that play was resumed,
* # *
It is told of Device, one of the Bundoora Park
brood mares, that she hopped about on three legs and a
crutch fixed to a badly-broken limb. In America recently
they amputated a colt’s leg with the object of saving him
for the stud.
# * *
The V.A.T.C. meeting at Caulfield, last Satur-
day, was remarkable for the riding of an unknown English
jockey, named Brazil, in the Steeplechase. The lad
brought home his mount, an outsider, with his hands and
knees, and fairly snatched the race from two horses that
were twenty yards in front as they rounded the last turn.
Brazil has only been out here a few weeks. Saturday's
mount was his first in Australia, and probably one of hia
first anywhere.
# * #
An arcade, it is said, wall be run through from
George to Pitt-street, Sydney, on the, site of Foley’s hotel
and athletic-ball, which are, therefore, doomed to demoli-
tion. Foley, we hear, lias taken the Crystal Palace Skating
Kink, which he will convert into a gymnasium on a
gorgeous scale.
At the Washington Riding Academy, Boston,
U.S., the noted jumping-horse, Ontario, got over a 7-toot
bar before 150 well-known men, several of whom inohid
ing a judge, a naval officer, and an ambassador, have
testified to the bona fides of the performance.
* * *
John L. Sullivan, at latest, weighed 2601b5.
that is, 18st. 81b.—and found Turkish baths and trainers
inadequate to its reduction. Dr. Gibbs, the noted fat
reducer, declares that he could reduce the champion s
weight 601b5., but cannot guarantee that the piocess will
not prove prejudicial to his health.
* * *
During a recent sporting slander case, Jockey
Gorry confidentially informed the judge that if he wished
to know whether a horse was a rogue or not the surest
plan to pursue was to back him. This is something like
the test of mushrooms. If you eat them and bye, jor
can set them down as having been, good ones. 0™ “
them and die, the inference is they were unhealthy.
Master Gorry made no mention of any certain plan tor
determining whether owners, trainers, and ndeis, were
rogues or not.
* * *
The Bulletin, which was the first of Australian
naners to cry out for a return to the old “six balls an 1
over” system, begs to remark that English matches are
now but seldom drawn, except by reason of aheavy laintali,
and are finished in two days, as often as not.
* * *
There was once the soil of a Gunn,
A beggar to slog and to run ;
He hit ’em so fast
That Our Boys looked aghast
And groaned “ He has collared the bun.
* * *
Twenty thousand paid to enter the Queen’s
Park Club Grounds, Glasgow, to see the football match
between England and Scotland which ended in a draw .
The doors were closed half-an-hour before the match
hea-an, at which time £l6OO had been taken and then the
shut-out crowd demolished the fences and invaded the
ground in such numbers that play was almost impossible.
An Australian Insurance Co. boldly adver-
tises itself as unlimited. This is refreshing. When
the directors get into trouble, they won t retire
on their private fortunes.
American (to Englishman whose name he
has forgotten)—“l beg your pardon, but—er—
what are you earl of ? ” — Hakpek’s Bazak.
An English umbrella-finisher wrote her
name and address on the stick of a gamp she had
just completed ; the romantic young New Yorker
who bought it, first opened the umbrella and then
a correspondence with the fair writer, they ex-
changed photographs, he offered marriage and
Miss Gamp crossed the ocean to be, let us hope, a
happy wife.
The Victorian Government is introducing,
with the new Railway Bill, a free, enlightened and
popular system of legislation. Duncan Gillies
admits his inability to draw up a scheme that will
ensure the safety of his billet for another 10 years,
so he has hurled the hurried draft measure on the
flure of the House and told everybody to settle
among themselves what lines will best_ suit their
little books, and put the result of their friendly
deliberations on foolscap for him to ratify and seal
with the blessed Mace. When Duncan gets the
Bill he will read it over for form’s sake, and the
men who have pieced it together will see that it is
good, and cheer, and stand on their heads while
Duncan moves that the House do now proceed
to borrow twenty millions sterling or thereabouts,
wherewith to make purchases of land from every
member present, the same to be devoted to rail-
way purposes unless circumstances of an unlooked-
for character make a resale of said lands at a large
reduction in price necessary to the welfare of a
rising nation. The advantages of turning the
House into a co-operative store, where every share-
holders gets what he wants and the profits are
divided equally, are obvious to the meanest under-
standing. A bull-frog could grasp this new idea
without an effort. And as all Parliamentary Bills
can be prepared in like manner, nothing remains
but to poke all portfolios into the fire and put
Cabinet salaries into a general “ kitty,” he who
draws the shortest straw scooping the e to ke and
shouting drinks for the crowd. Amen.
Dr. Maloney, in the Victorian Assembly,
has provoked the severe displeasure of Speaker
Davies by referring to one of the blessed laws of
the colony as “iniquitous.” According to the
ruling of that entertaining functionary, no
law can possibly be iniquitous, within the
precincts of Parliament House. Laws, it ap-
pears, resemble the Scotchman’s summing up of
whiskies, in so far that they can’t be bad. Some
laws may be better than others, but all are guid.
The volatile Maloney, having in view one of the
many Acts which are standing disgraces to tire
men who passed them, and eternal sneers_ at the
intelligence of a public which tolerates their exist-
ence upon the Statute Book, hazarded the disre-
spectful opinion aforesaid. He understands now
how wrong he was. A member may slang a pro-
posed law to his heart’s content. He may scoff at
the fools who proposed and seconded it, and heap
contumely upon the heads of those who intend
carrying it on a division. But directly that miser-
able enactment becomes the law of the land, the
critic must accept it as a special dispensation of
Providence and hang on to it with a simple,
childlike faith —in Parliament. To howl against
any established institution is to proclaim yourself
a traitor-, for what is ought to be for evermore,
Amen. Such is the legislative gospel according to
Matthew Davies, knight. Our old friend Bumble
was not in the House when he explained that the
Law was a hassj otherwise that immortal beadle
would have been called upon to apologise to the
Mace. ’
IMMENSE EAT WOMAN.
At Mildura, Victoria, the other day, a woman
was seen to step off the scale weighing 413 pounds,
and she was raised without irrigation. A long,
pinchback skeleton, raising his hat, said “Pardon
me, madam, but where did you get that fat t
“Not from irrigation,” she replied, “but from
drinking that famous St. Louis Lager Beer, the
purest beer in the world.”
Reliable Watch Repairs. DahmS & Co., King-st. Arcade-


Clarkes “Pyramid” Nursery Lamp Food-Warmers
WARMER
□
REG?
91241
ARE THE];
LIGHTS S«
HOURS
POf? THESf!
I
m
CIM
wc^s:»»i
i. d
MHMH
-Q=s_:
5gS
r NEW PATTERN
iNeiiUDiNQ BRASS
“PYRAMID” Um>
and Registered
Pankikin By this
invention any liquid
food can be poured
out or drunk, with-
out scum or grease
passing through the
spout, and prevents
spilling when poured
into a Feeding Bottle
so unavoidable with
all other Pannikins.
These Pannikins
<"ill fit all the old
“Pyramid” Nursery
Lamps and can
be purchased
separately
Is Fireproof
Plaster
Casing
with
Single Wicks
in Boxes
sontalning g Lights,
BUEN
0 Hours
each.
PYRAMID" LIGHT
fliefllij/fcrib
•'H t
Burglar s
Horror-
d
With DOUBLE Wicks,
in. Boxes containing g
Lights and Glass BURN
B Hours each Burn
10 Honrs with Single
Wicks These are smaller
than “ Fairy" Lights,
consequently less expen-
sive, and will burn in
tny of the '‘Fairy” or
"Fairy Pyramid” Lamps
FAIRY PYRAMID ” LIGHT
In Glass
with
Double
Wicks
in Boxes
containing
6 Lights,
BURN
10 Hours
each
‘FAIRY LIGHT,’
USHr
OF
SINGLE Wick in boxes
containing 8 Lights and
Glass. BURN jQ Hours.
These are smaller than
“ Fairy ° Lights, conse-
quently less expensive,
and will burn in any of
the “ Fairy” or “ Fairy
Pyramid” Lamps.
‘ FAIRY-PYRAMID " LIGHT.
writ
fee
OLD SHAPE
PANNIKIM
V.
NEW
SHAPE
PANNIKIN
9124-1
A’ a .'
N.B
AU Clarke’s lights are warranted free from Paraffin, or other dangerous material
FAR, FAR AND AWAY THE BEST.
3olci aU -tlx© leading Retail Houses.
FRANCIS FORREST & CO., 484 Collins Street, ME LB OUR NF.
-i*Bp been Known for 100 years as the uest preserver
and beauiifier of the hair : it prevents it falling off or
turning grey, strengthens weak hair, and eradicates
scurf and dandruff; it is unsurpassed as a brilliahline
tor the beard and moustaches. to which it imparts a
soft and silky appearance ; it is also sold in a golden
colour for fair-haired children.^ —
Rowland’s
Kalydor
a soothing and emollieht'milk for the face, and Is most
cooling to the skin in hot climates; it removes freckles, 1
tan, sunburn, roughness and redness of the skin,
pimples, cutaneous eruptions, &0., and produces soft
fair skih, andjl lovely delicate complexion.
ROWLAND’S ESSENCE IF TYRE, u harmless preparation
for dyeing red or grey hair a permanent brown «ir
Ask _chemists and druggists for Rowland's
. articlcn.j.
Caution.
„.. rh ® extraordinary reputation of Rowland's Macassar
ou, Kalydor and Odonto, induces some shopkeepers to
offer spurious imitations under the lure of being cheap'
the principle on which each is prepared is confined’
eolely to tho knowledge of A. Rowland & Sons, of !30
Hatton Garden, London, end therefore it is highly
necessary to buy no Macassar Oil, Kalydor or Odonto
except those made by them, end,which heat their
nainein red ink on the wrappers.
J-.JSHRAQER
n
ft
0
%
<
SCIENTIFIC
INSTRUMENT MAKER
> MACQUARIE PLACE (Opposite Exchanged
-•A-,
VI
m/J
S ddnan
V vT^
■IBOIP3M
*$&■ . V
IF SO,
DON’T MISS THIS!
e . ver y° ne says is bound to be true, and young
and old, rich and poor, physicians who recommend, and
patients who try
The Krupp Galvanic Chain Belt,
All agree in praising that most scientific of Electro
therapeutical Appliances. For Rheumatism it is un-
rivalled. Lumbago at once succumbs to its power. The
.Nervous are strengthened and the Debilitated restored to
perfect health and vigour. In short, the appliance is an
unfailing cure for all Nervous, Sexual, or Chronic Diseases,
and is GUARANTEED to ABSOLUTELY CURE, com-
pletely and lastingly, the following complaints:—
Dyspepsia, Neuralgia, Pains in the Back and Chest,
Lumbago, Catarrh, Rheumatism, Dumb Ague,
Nervous Debility, Paralysis, Kidney Complaint,
Spinal Disease, Female Weakness, Diseases of the
Liver, Impotence, Scmih'gl Weakness, Diabetes,
Sciatica, Atrophy, Gout, Indigestion, Asthma, Piles,
Epilepsy Spermatorrhoea, Specks before the Eyes,
Excessive Heart Palpitation, Defective Memory.
tj, . ' u , ®**rc For Varicocele.
It is a PORTABLE BODY BATTERY, and contains
special appliances for both sexes; therefore, why waste
■?r f r^W nd . h ? aUh b - v procuring and taking USELESS
i,i j u , I 'cotricity, when properly applied, is acknow-
ledged by all leading and unprejudiced physicians to be
the only safe and radical cure for Nervous and Sexual
Diseases, and the thousands of testimonials received by
the Krupp Belt Co. from leading personages throughout
tiji i ■'? prove the unquestionable curative properties
of Electricity as applied by the appliance above referred to.
Our confldenceju, this appliance is so complete, that
we send the Belt out on trial, and guarantee it
to give perfect satisfaction. For full particulars as to
teinis, etc., send for our large illustrated treatise, free,
in which these Belts are fully illustrated, the action of
electricity on the nervous system explained, and a lot of
useful information on nervous and sexual diseases given,
this treatise also contains facsimile of testimonials received
from some of our clients who have tried our Belts. The
on these testimonials produced on application.
The prices of the Krupp Galvanic Chain Belt and
Suspensory are from £l.
Sole Inventor .... Carl Krupp.
a ,1,1 USI ", e . ss Manager , . A. \V. Courtney.
Address all communications to the
Krupp Oalvanic Chain Belt Co.,
Box 647, 0.P.0., Sydney, N.S.W.
Kemember-The K.G. Chain Belt cures without medicine,
s easy to wear, is sent on approval, and the first cost is
the only cost.
JT I STORY OF BOTANY BAY
PRICE-ONE SHILLING.
Medical;
Dr-SPEER
31 YORK STREET, WYNYARD SQUARE, SYDNEY
P.O. Box 920. This eminent specialist is a graduate!
physician of Harwood University, U.S., registered by thi
Governments of N.S.W. and N.Z., and has devoted If
years to the special study of CHRONIC, NERVOUS, SKUS
and SPECIAL diseases of MEN and WOMEN. All apply
mg to him will receive his honest opinion of their com
plaints. No experimenting ;no mercury used. A positive
cure guaranteed or forfeit £2OO. His vast experience
tel*®; him that where there is no organic disease, and
nothing but an inorganic trouble, or, in other words, a
conglomeration of symptoms producing a certain result,
there is no reason why it cannot be removed with the
proper remedies: therefore he guarantees. He claims to
be the most skilful and successful physician in N.S.W. in
his particidar,speciality, viz., the CHRONIC and SPECIAL
DISEASES of MEN and WOMEN. Examination and
advice free to all. Charges moderate. Office Hours—lo
,a.m. to 12 a.m.; 2 to 4 and 7 to 8p m. Sunday, 10 to
11 a.m. only.
Nervous Delbility.
Consult Dr. Speer in all cases of NERVOUSNESS through
indiscretion, for his many years of practice with this
dreadful disease enables him to remove all traces of it and
rt“ tui ' n the victims to full VIGOUR, HEALTH and
MANHOOD.
N.8.-TWENTY SHILLINGS is sufficient to send for
remedies necessary for the cure of NERVOUS DEBILITY.
DR. SPEER will forward, post free, at ss. per box, or
21s. for five boxes, the following celebrated pills :
1-AMERIOAN “ VITAL” PILLS, for nervous debility,
lost vitality, sexual weakness, errors, &c.
-AMERICAN “PRIVATE” PILLS, for discharges,
contagious sores and blood diseases.
3.—“ FEMALE” PILLS for irregularities and obstruc-
tions.
STOMACH, LIVER, and KIDNEY
PILLS, 2s. 6d. per box.
*Tf-
*[ NDISPENS ABLE pOR RADIES
AND ALL PERSONS
With a Delicate Skini
MOUSON’S
COCOA BUTTERSOAP
Cocoa Butter Soap is a real skin-beautifler, and a balm to
young and old alike.
MOUSON & CO., PERFUMERS & TOILET SOAP MANUFACTURERS
FRANKFORT-ON-THE-MAINB.
LONDON: 32 & 33 UAMSELL-ST., E.C. PARIS; 29 RUE RADZIWILL-
J?ul * guarantee for perfect purity is offered by the
sole Manufacturers, Mouson & Co
JULIUS GOLDSCHMIDT & CO.,
231 CLARENCE ST., SYDNEY,
.SOLE AGENTS FOR AUSTRALASIA.
Companies.
The British and New South Wales Investment
and Financial t 0., Limited.
Incorporated under the Companies’ Act, 1874.
Capital, £250,000.
Sydney Office : 246 PITT STREET.
B lL nfilv tSCOUNTED and Immediate Advances granted
. Country communications promptly attended
Deposits • f 0 0W1 " 8: l atCS ° f Interest are allowed for Fixed
3 Years
12 Months
6 Months
3 Months
10 per cent.
9 per cent.
8 per cent.
7 per cent.
With a Guaranteed Bonus on Renewals of Twelve Months
and over.
By order of the Board.
W. M‘DONALD, Manager.
limited.
Capital £200,000.
Head Office :
21 Castlereagh St, Sydney,
With Branches and Agencies throughout the Colonies.
3VT©w Business:
T,lcre were Issued 10,557 Policies.
!««« ” ” ” 34.«8-i
1880 » » ~ 57,333 ”
These figures show the wonderful progress of the
Company and the high esteem placed upon its
liberal dealings by the public.
claims' paid
Immediately on Proof of Death
JAMES P. GARVAN,
WM. ALEX. SMITH,
\
/
Managing Director.
Secretary.
PROBLEM OF TO-DAY-WHERE CAN WE GET GOOD
BOOTS ?—SOLVED AT LAST.
E- FRENCH
(The French of years ago)
Can supply Residents here with Boots" better made than
ever Boots that must wear well and give
f®o Kels t ’? e 1 " tO . 82 Oxford Strkkt, and be sure
to enclose Sizes and Remittance, when your parcel will be
sent at once by Post, Rail, or Steamer.
Notice Prices for Boots that look well, wear well
* and fit well.
Children's Elastic-sides, 2/-, 2/
Men’s & Youths’ ditto, 5/6,
, 3/6, 4/-, 4/6, etc.
/-, 6/6, 7/6, 8/6, etc.
\ Best
/ Boots
Men’s & Boys’ Bluchers, 2/11, if., i/.] e/-,' best ever made.
A Line of Stylish Laced Boots for Best Wear
(Boys’, Youths’ and Men’s Sizes).
ENGLISH BOOTS for LADIES, CHILDREN etc..
Sent as ordered. Lowest Price.
Satisfaction given or Money Returned,
Xvtc the Address:
ECLIPSE BOOT CO.,
S- Oxford Street, SVO>KV.
E. French. Manager


Wolfe’s Schnapps—look for £l orders.
EAIH WHITE HANDS.
HEIGHT CLEAH COMPLEXION.
SOET HEALTHFUL SKIN.
FOI2-
TOILET & NURSERY.
Specially Prepared for tire delicate skin of Ladies and Children*and
others sensitive to the weather (winter or summer). Redness,
Roughness and Chapping prevented.
TESTIIvIO3sri-A.LS -
Mrs. LANGTRY.
“ J have much pleasure in stating that I have
used your Soap for some time, and prefer it to any
(Sinned) LILLIE LANGTRY.
Miss MARY ANDERSON.
“ I have used it two years with the greatest
satisfaction, for I find it the very best. ’
(Sic/ncd) MARY ANDERSON.
Mdme. MARIE ROZE MAPLESON.
“ For preserving the complexion, keeping the
skin soft, free from redness and roughness, and
the hands in nice.condition, it is the finest Soap
in the world.” (Sifjncd) MARIE ROZE.
Mdme. ADELINA PATTI.
“I have found it matchless for the hands and
complexion.”
Craned) ADELINA PATTI.
Rev. H. WARD BEECHER.
“ If cleanliness is next to godliness, soap must
be considered as a means of grace, and a clergy-
man who recommends moral things should be
willing to recommend soap. lam told that my
commendation of Pears’ Soap has opened for it
a large sale in the United States. I am willing
to stand by word in favour of it that I ever
uttered. A man must be fastidious indeed who
is not satisfied with it.”
(Signed) HENRY WARD BEECHER.
Sir ERASMUS WILSON, F.R.S.
(Late President of the Royal College of Surgeons of
England.)
Writes in the Journal of Cutaneous Medicine :
“The use of a good soap is certainly calculated
to preserve the skin in health, to maintain its
complexion and tone, and prevent its falling into
wrinkles . . . PEARS is a name engraven on
the memory of the oldest inhabitant; and Pears
Transparent Soap is an article of the nicest and
most careful manufacture, and one of the most
refreshing and agreeable of balms for the skin.
a®
*
««
'■■■:<
i
2«
SU
x)
'itf
v:
k:S
a
%
Number Twelve.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
I first met No. 12 under the most ordinary
circumstances. It was on a certain very miserable
day when my business arrangements made it
necessary for me to visit a station a few miles from
Orange, N.S.W. Gladly would I have remained
within range of the genial warmth of a brightly
burning fire, for there was nothing to attract and
everything to repel one out in the freezing air. 13ut
I had to go, for necessity knows no law. I was
wretched enough when 1 reached Call am Station,
the terminus of my journey. Wlun I dismounted
from my shivering horse, a man came forward to
take charge of it that man was No. 12. He
obviously had no claims to be regarded as a high
type of ’ humanity. His age may have ranged
anywhere between 50 and 70 ; for who could
correctly guess what years had pas ed over the
head of that battered specimen of antiquity or
misery? I was in no mood to philosophise on the
attendant miseries of human life; still less was I dis-
posed to attempt any physiognomical delineation
of the human paradox before me. Long, shaggy
grey hair, thickly matted with grease and
the accumulated dirtiness of half a century;
thick, heavy eyebrows almost veiling the hollow
sunken eyes ; a face wrinkled and seamed, and
deeply indented with the lines that age and care
had ploughed, made up the individuality of No. 12.
# # *
Nothing very inviting in this portrait !
And yet No. 12 was once a man with a man’s
aspirations and ambitions. Long years before
disgrace branded him with the broad ar-
row, and a dark despair shadowed him with
funereal wings, he played on the chords of life’s
truer music and rolled out some of its loftiest
symphonies. But that had all passed away, and
now the inner man was as battered and toughened
as the external shell.
* # *
The name of No. 12 I never knew. His
history gradu illy eked out in little conversations
we had together. Briefly recorded, it was this.
He had been well brought up in a quiet English
country village, and had he been of ales- resthss
disposition would, doubtless, have journeyed
along easy paths of life, slipped into his father’s
shoes—succeeded to the hereditary farm, and
developed into a happy go-lucky English yeoman.
Unfortunately for himself, No 12 made twq mis-
takes. He thought for himself —mistake number
one; and he fell in love with a very pretty girl—
mistake number two. Ido not mean to insinuate
for one moment that these two things—thinking
for oneself or falling in love with a pretty girl-
are mistakes in the abstract, but what I wish to
make clear is that although these things are well
enough in theory, their resultant issues are some-
times very wrong. Such was the experience of
No. 12. He became a thinker, and his thinking
developed into Chartism. He fell in love with
and married a girl from a family hereditarily at
war with his own. For the first offence his little,
narrow-minded, local world ostracised him; for
the second, an angry father showed him the door
and “cut him off.”
# * *
“It never rains but it pours,” and
No. 12 soon found himself deluged with the
superabundant waters. No trade, a young wife,
a social and political outcast, plenty of ambi-
tious hopes — these were his stock-in-trade.
Had his lot been cast in freer countries like
America or Australia, his chances of future success
would still have been many ; but in England,
then, his disabilities were such as to augur badly
for his future prospects. The elaborations of his
life brought this result. He went to a village
where lie was unknown, and strove, by per-
severing industry, to make a home. Wages
were at little better than starvation rates ;
and to make matters worse, his pretty wife
was overcome by the illness of maternity.
With thousands of others lie was thrown out. of
work-left to starve in the depth of a pitiless
winter. It made him mad to sit day by day by her
bedside and watch the colourslowly fadingiromher
face : to see the hideous ravages gaunt want was
making of her finely-chiselled features ; to leal the
small, helpless cry of the little pinched form
beside her. IVhat could he do? One thing .
There was abundance of game in the neighbouring
preserves, and-there was a rusty old fowbng-piece
hanging up against the wall. Out into the cold,
weird, wild night he went, facing the driving
blast and treading on the soft, white snow that
mantled the earth. He shot several fine haivs,
and, hastening home, prepared a feast that cheered
the spirit of his girl-wife and infused somet ing of
courage and hope into his own breast. 1 hat
savoury dish of hot hare-stew was the last meal
he ever made in his own home. People were
starving and the preserves were full of .game ; but
woe to the gaunt humanity that sought in their
sacred precincts some alleviation of its terrible
hunger pains. It was the golden epoch of con-
victism, too, and poor, starved-out Iso. 12 stood
in the dock, and, in a listless sort of way,
heard the sentence that he was to be deported to
Botany Bay for the “ terra of his natural life.
At Botany Bay he was branded, numbered, and
made the assigned convict of Tli mas Halenn
Carter, Esq., of Callara.
* * *
His wife and child did not remain very
Ion" after his conviction. They did not follow
him to N.S.W., but bade adieu to their mi eries,
and were laid in a corner of the little village
grave-yard. But what made the fate of No. 12 so
desperately hard was this. His father, becoming
acquainted with his son’s fate, and, somewhat
relenting, used what influence he possessed in
striving to obtain a mitigation of the sentence.
In this he was successful, for after a few- years a
full pardon was sent out releasing No. 12 from the
bonds of eonvictism. That pardon never reached
him, but fell into the hands of Thomas Halenn
Carter, Esq. That gentleman, finding No 12 a
good servant, quickly put the pardon in the hie
and discreetly held his peace—held his peace till,
on his death-bed, long years after, his fears made
the reparation his greed had so long withheld.
Then No. 12 knew he was a free man ! But the
freedom came too late. It came to a wreck and a
ruin to a man whose manhood had long been
withered by foul wrong and clanging chain and
AJAX.
biting lash.
The big Shasta Mountain Peak, of the
Nevadas, has tumbled in, the cable says. A
contrary volcanic action was exhibited in the
great peak of Jorullo, South America, which shot
up in a single night. Shasta is embalmed, how-
ever, in Walt Whitman’s “ Song of the Redwood
Tree.”
A Criminal Reform.
A New South Wales citizen writes from Arn-
lalah (Queensland) to point cut that the judicial
system up there isn’t altogether in keeping with
the progressive spirit of the age. There is no
lockup, it seems, ,and consequently that unwhole-
some product of our civilisation, the harmless,
necessary drunk, has to be chained to a log by the
roadside, and there he prances and jumps and
howls in the ears of the passers-by until his sen-
tence expires. He suggests therefore that either
a lockup should be built or that the drunk should
be chained up in a secluded spot where the pro-
fuseness of his vocabulary will not excite so much
public comment, and theoretically, no doubt, his
idea is a good one. But unhappily the small bush
town, as a rule, can't afford the orna i ental super-
fluity of a gaol ; and if the police got into the
habit of chaining up the plain, unvarnished drunk
in a lonely spot where nobody could hear him
curse, they would never be able to find him again
when his term was out. The average drunk would
simply be left there and lost, and about 40 years
liter someone would come acfoss a skeleton
wriggling insanely at the end of a rusted chain
and° a decaying stump, and would probably
write to the papers about the inefficiency of
the force. And even if tilings did not go to
this extremity there is always a chance that
the prisoner might be partly eaten by wild dogs
if he was 1 ft in a place where there was nobody
about to scare the animals away, and this might
create ill-feeling and even lead to inciv hty and
murder and unpunctuality and a disregard of the
sac.ed rights of property. Therefore, as the cast-
iron law insists that the offender shall be im-
prisoned even when there is no prison to put him
in, the wearied policeman has simply to tie him
up to some fixe ! object where he t i nks he ha,s a
reasonable chance of finding him again before the
whole nation is extinct, and then he sits down in
rain or sunshine to scare the dogs off the criminal,
and chase away the bullocks that want to prod
him with their horns, and brush the hornets on
him : and the criminal sits listlessly on the ground
and states to the passers-by that the officer was
found on a doorstep in infancy, and that his
mother used to take in washing, and that he can t
read and h s feet like two portmanteaus. Evidently
there is something clumsy and lop-sided about
this mode of administer ng justice, but there
is an awful want of originality in the, Aus-
tralian code which makes it d fficult to
find a remedy. No doubt the simplest way
would be to turn the hose on the drunk lor
ten minutes and then di-charge him, and when
the trouble was compl cated by violence or bad
language the resident magistrate might order him
to have a mustard plaster put on in addition, in
cases of aggravated aslant a quart of cow-medi-
cine might be administered, and a brick thrown
at the offender under the personal supervision ol
the local authorities; and ordinary offences
against property might be squared by the criminal
cleaning up six back-yards and removing two or
three offensive ash-heaps, and if this was not
sufficient he might be made to attend church
twice every Sunday for a year, and take a pill
twice a day. and go to bed every night at eight.
And where some absolutely desperate crime had
rendered it necessary to make an awful example
of the perpetrator, we would suggest that he
should be sent on a whaling expedition, and made
to learn a dead language, and when he had
got right through with these penalties he might
be taken out into a lonely spot 400 miles
from anywhere, and left to walk back with a
porous-plaster and a horse-blister on him. in
throwing out these few crude suggestions we do
not imply, of course, that they furnish sufficient
material for a new and complete criminal code,
we merely wish to point out that the present
system is open to improvement. The spectacle of
a back-blocks drunk chain d to a stump by the
roadside, and busily engaged in taking a rise out
of a weary policeman who has got cramp and a
pain in his stomach through sitting on a ragged
boulder to see that he doesn’t get away, is a
woeful example of the inefficiency of the law, and
this sort of thing brings the whole criminal code
into well-deserved contempt. Surely if the law-
breaker could be made to shine the boots of the
whole town and clean a number of candlesticks, it
would be a distinct improvement on the stupid,
inane, haphazard method now in vogue.
Sir Andrew Walker, of Liverpool, who
founded the local free-art gallery, owned 200
public-houses, from which he drew £z(X),uUU a
year. His business was the other day sold tor
three ur limns.
The wreck of the You Yungs off Kangaroo
Island again shows up the S.A. Marine Board.
When the Star of Greece was wrecked in l»bb it
resulted in a supposed complete re-organisation ot
the faci ities for relief. And yet, although the
telegram arrived in Adelaide asking for immediate
relief at about 2 p.m. it was not until midnight
that the steamer left for the Island. The reason
was that for motives of economy the crew ot the
Governor Musgrave had been discharged !
The Guakuian (London), church paper,
says the Primate of Australia must be a great
man, and Australia cannot furnish one. )v here-
upon the Church of England Messenger (Melb.)
comes to the charge, asking why Australia can
furnish its own statesmen and not its bishops .
It does not send to England for a Parkes or a
Gillies—why for a Barry or a Goe ? Probably the
latest importations will prove the last, for the
clergy will form a trades-union, like the tailoresses
and servant girls.
Editor Winsor, of the Age, as is well
known, is not a nabob to gaze upon ; bis soul soars
above sartorial details, and be looks as if he were
connected with “ the butchering.” '1 he reporters
see him about once in six months, as nearly idl ins
work is done in the afternoon, when the stall are
busy outside. A new reporter was working up
copy in the office about a fortnight ago, when a
rough-looking customer walked in, and, without
any preliminary remarks, took upthe scribe s work
and began reading it. The reporter, breathless at
the stranger's effrontery, trembled on the verge ot
an apoplectic fit, when the stout party said,
“This does not go into the paper to-night.
“ Oh, doesn’t it ? Who the - are you, any-
way ?” asked the “ staff.” “ The item will not
appear. That is all you require to know, quietly
returned the other, walking out of the room as he
did so. Two seconds later the reporter was going
over his notes of the case, and muttering : An
interested party, I suppose. Won't go in. won t
it i'll soon fix him up.” fro he re-wrote the
item and ran the bmocent little larceny case into
three-quarters of a column. Then he took it to
the sub. “ Why,” said that autocrat the
editor told you not to touch this.” Good ,
was that the editor ?” “Of course it was. Ihe
reporter wrote an apology to that editor, and
then floated home in a cold perspiration.


Great Medical Reform!
Consult (FREE) HERR RASSMUSSEN, the Celebrated Danish Herbalist
Expert Specialist in all Private Complaints, Barrenness and Nervous Diseases.
DENMARK-
%
%
%
\
%
*
%
4>\
f'J'
%
m
1'|(!
R
E
S
I
0
R
E
s
L
0
S
T
V
1 !
J
'ft
L
I
T
y
\I)CJ!B'
# tH
# C,A
pi#
f
w
i
#
<dt
msm
Sesm
V
Vitality
A Guaranteed Cure
for
Nervous Debility and
Lost Vitality.
225. 6d. per Course.
Smaller Box ss. 6d.
Only Herbalist in Australia
at has received Gold Medal” for Great Cubes Performed, and is Honourably Mentioned in the “Centennial History of New South Wales **
for Great Herbal Discoveries ; and who can prove that he has CURED OYER 20,000 PATIENTS.
Sole Proprietor and Discoverer of the Celebrated
DENMARK VITALITY PILLS. Registered,
I hich have been the means of Curing so many Thousands of Sufferers from Nervous Debility, Lost Vitality, Errors, Weakness, Despondency,
Impure Blood. 225. Gd. per Course ; Smaller Box, ss. 6d.
G-eauine
To HERR RASSMUSSEn!—Dear^Sir^—This is to certify that von
failed - JOHN REYNOT W rn°° d d . is f se - aftei ' many doctors had
rauea. JOHN REYNOLDS, Chappel-street, Leichhardt, Sydney.
Benefa!dm R f ASSMUSSPN . the celebrated Danish Herbalist.—Dear
Benefactor, —l have much pleasure to inform the public that von
cured my wife of an internal complaint of a very serious nature after
Pdpn h r doctor ® had "iveri her up.—ARCHIBALD MACFARLANE
Eden Cottage, Barney-street, Armidale. ’
mr T lr H h ER] i. "sped a list in Nervous Diseases. D .*r
Sir, I hereby thank you for the great cure you performed on me for
c °mP l icated nervous affection, and I shall always recommend
you to sufferers from Nervous Debility.—PHlLLlP STEAD 54 Pirn
matta-road, Annandale, Sydney. 54 Parra-
To HERR RASSMUSSEN, Danish Herbalist.—Dear Sir and Bene-
factor,—lt gives me great pleasure to testify to your wonderful skill
treatment of Disease. You cured me of terrible complaint
afwell^s d p 0 v C pr 0r % ga n e i? ne " P ’ andalthoU gh it is four years since lam
152 1 shall recommend you to all.—Yours, gratefully A
RAMSDEN, Great Western Coffee Palace, Castlereagh-street, Sydney.
«iJ° T I v. ER n RA ®.® M USSEN, Specialist in Nervous Diseases.—Dear
fov’n Jnrfr r pK^- Cer ! lfy that . r have been tinder your skilful treatment
for a very obstinate case of nervous debility, and that you cured me
Junction 6 N°S W° f y ° Ur Vitality Pilla -— D ' M‘NEILL, Hornsby
SEdi
Opinions of the Press.
It is a well-known fact that HERR RASSMUSSEN, the Celebrated
Danish Herbalist, has performed many great cures during the past few
years, as his numerous testimonials will prove.—Sydney Bulletin.
HERR RASSMUSSEN.—We have been shown some excellent Testi-
monials of the great cures performed by Herr Rassmussen, the cele-
brated Danish Herbalist.— Australian Star.
HERR RASSMUSSEN has now been established in the colonies
for 10 years.—Sunday Times, April 28, 1888.
HERR RASSMUSSEN has become a celebrity in the curing of all
diseases of the nervous system. His name has become a wonder
throughout the Southern Hemisphere. He was presented with a Gold
Medal for some of his miraculous cures.— Balmain Leader, May 12,1888.
HERR RASSMUSSEN.—The remarkable cures which he has effected
are pretty generally known. —Balmain Observer, April 28,1888.
We are perpetually receiving letters irom HERR RASSMUSSEN’S
cured patients requesting us to make known to the public the wonder-
ful medical skill this remarkable man possesses, and he has just been
presented with a Gold Medal from several of his cured patients.
—Sydney Weekly News, May 26, 1887.
Herr Rassmussen’s Herbal Remedies. (REGISTERED.)
DENMARK VITALITY PILLS. Guaranteed to cure Nervous Debility, Lost Vitality, Errors of Youth and Despondency. Price, 225. 6d. per full course ; small box, ss. 6d.
DENMARK Guaranteed to cure all complaints peculiar to Females, Irregularities, and eradicates complaints which cause barrenness.
LOCK CURE PILLS, guaranteed to Cure all diseases of the blood, discharges, sores, and strictures. Price, 225. 6d. per course ; small box, ss. 6d.
CONSULTATION AND ADVICE FREE.
All the above remedies are made of PURE HERBS, and are forwarded unobserved,
free, on receipt of 4d stamped addressed envelope. Consultation personally or by post, free.
A valuable treatise on Nervous Debility, Private Complaints, and Barrenness sent
Patients are examined with the aid of the Microscope.
Address: - Herr RASSMUSSEN the Danish Herbalist,
Corner G-ord.on.<street & Park-road., Paddington, Sydney,
TRAMS—Take Paddington Tram to Paddington Tram Waiting-room.
r'
/Tc'i;.
.wo
I
DENMARK
//111 I , V \
%
%
V'
%
\
'j-
%
\
$
£
&
%
%
t
%
d
R
E
s
!
0
R
£
1
,9
S
II
i
f
A
L
I
I
Y
\jlCofl l
It'e
#° ,s '
0 &
f
§
#
&)
c
mm
Itew
ITALUY
A Guaranteed Cure
for
Nervous Debility and
Lost Vitality.
225. 6d. per Course.
Smaller Box ss. 6d.
BALDWIN DRY AIR REFRIGERATOR.
Beware of the many so-called Dry Air Refrigerators advertised by unscrupulous Manufacturers and Dealers, intending
to deceive the public and trade upon our reputation. This is the original and celebrated Dry Air Refrigerator made
famous by its successful competition at the leading Exhibitions in the United States for the past Six Years, known as
the Baldwin Dry Air Refrigerator.
WHITE MOUNTAIN FREEZERS, ICE MILK CANS, MIXERS,
LEMOM SQUEEZERS, &c., &c.
MLEAN BROS. & RIGG, Til)..
512 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
COLONIAL MUTUAL LIFE ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED.
BRANCHES THROUGHOUT THE COLONIES AND THE UNITED KINGDOM.
Policies issued under the Ordinary, Mloclifiecl Tontine and Mortuary IDivirlencl Systems.
WATSON’S
PILLS
HEALTH for the MILLION !
Mild, Aperient, Antibilious
Pills, purely vegetable
in their composition,
are particularly recommended to either sex, where a
gentle, but effective aperient is required. These Pills
are invaluable for all complaints of the Stomach and
Liver, speedily removing sick headache, biliousness,
indigestion, etc., and cleansing the
blood of all impurities. To Ladles
these pills will be found invaluable.
One trial is sufficient to prove their vast superiority
over all others. Sold by all Chemists and Storekeepers.
Price ls« per box. Prepared solely by John Watson,
Chemist, George Street, Sydney.
Wholesale Agents
Messrs. Elliott Bros., S. Hoffnung & Co., Australian
Drug Co., Fihldham Gothblp & Co., Myers & Solomon,
Xilloch & Co. and J. R. Love & Co.
-THE-
Slectro-Magzietic
Massage Institute,
For the cure of—
Rheumatism Lumbago, Sciatica, Debility,
Gouty and Neuralgic Affections,
Muscular and Nervous Disorders
All Cases under Medical Supervision. Ladies
attended by specially-trained Nurses.
94 * DARLINGHURST * ROAD,
SYDNEY.
Attendance : 9tol a. m.; 7to 10 p.m.
Process Protected by Letters Patent.
pULVEEMACHER’S WORLD-
"*■ FAMED GALVANIC BELTS
FOR THE CURE OP
Nervous Exhaustion and Debility, Sciatica,
Lumbago, Rheumatism, &c.,
HAVE received Testimonials from Three
Physicians to Her Majesty the Queen and
the Leading Physicians of many London Hospi-
tals, including over Forty Members of the Royal
College of Physicians of London.
For full Price-list and particulars, see new pam-
phlet Galvanism : Nature’s Chief Restorer of
Impaired Vital Energy.” Pamphlets Free.
' Sole Agents for N.S.W.,
FROST <Sc SHIPHAM
ELECTRICIANS,
474 & 587 George Street, Sydney.
Sole Agents for Victoria;
ALLISON BROS., 477 Oollins-strbkt West, Melbourne.
A. BOWMAN’S
LONDON MADE
Porpoise Hide Boots
Are Reduced from 30s. to 21s.
249 PITT ST., SYDNEY, Near Tattersall's.
Porpoise Hide Wears Twice as Long
as any other Leather.
They are noted all over London,
Birmingham and Liverpool.
London Fashions,
AND
Fresh Goods Every Fortnight.
Trade Supplied Wholesale at a Great Advantage.
SY DNEY
(Late Gunsler’s Cafe)
175 Pitt Street, Sydney,
WISH their former Patrons and the Public Generally to know that their Saloons have been Entirely Reorganised, and shall be glad if they will give
JAMES 0- MARQUAND, Manager-
their new cusine a trial.


BROTH
PAPER-HANGINGS.
Ous,Colours * Paints
WALL PAPERS Fro/w S croll
PA I
529 George St/‘Bath U rstSi!
Brickfield H/Ll.:
New south wales floods relief
FUND.
The Central Committee of the New South Wales
Floods Relief Fund, having relieved cases of tem-
porary distress in Sydney, and having now agreed
on the nature of the losses for which compensation
is to be given, are desirous that the subscribed
funds should be distributed as speedily as possible
amongst the sufferers.
With this object in view, the Central Committee
respectfully asks Magistrates or other residents in
all the flooded districts of New South Wales to
have Committees appointed to inquire into the
losses sustained; and where no Committee has
been appointed, the Central Committee requests
Police and other Magistrates to kindly undertake
this duty ; and on their notifying their acceptance
of the position, printed forms for collecting in-
formation as to losses sustained will be imme-
diately forwarded.
In the event of claimants being unable (from
illness, distance or any spe. ial cause) to present
their claims to the local Committees or Magis-
trates, they may forward such claims direct to the
Central Committee in Sydney.
T. A. DIBBS
J. BROOMFIELD
A. FORSYTH
)
Hon. Treasurers.
JOHN YOUNG 1
EDWARD J. H. KNAPPJ
Hon.
Secs.
Offices ; Town Hall.
Sydney, June 9, 1890.
NO
DON’T
WASTE
IT
You Will most certainly save Money,
Time, and Anxiety by placing all your
Advertising in our
hands.
Write
to
F. T. WIMBLE & CO.,
Advertising Experts,
369 to 373 George St., Syd. Send for Pamphlet
“ How to -advertise and why ? ” 11th Edition.
I~~|~ISTQRY OF BOTANY BAY
PRICE—ONE SHILLING.
T
T
ƒ
13. C. L-
VERY = OLD = SPECIAL
SCOTCH = WHISKY.
DISTILLERIES CO. (Limited).
RE-COVE R£ Ct
STUDY ECONOMY
and
Have your Umbrella Frames
Re-Covered, and your
Parasols Re-Lined and made
Equal to New, at
J. SULLIVAN’S,
541 George Street,
Brickfield Hill, Sydney,
between
Liverpool db Bathurst Sts.,
Parasols made to match Cos-
tumes. Repairs neatly done.
JOHN BUC K H A 1VI 9
449 ELIZABETH STREET, MELBOURNE.
TENT, Tarpaulin, and Waterproof Cover
Manufacturer. Horse Rugs, Loin Covers,
Oilskin Coats, Cab Aprons, Marquees (with or
without flooring and flags) for sale or hire.
JOHN BUCKHAM MELBOURNE.
Oldest established house in the trade.
When ordering please mention this paper.]
ALLAN A. MARSHALL & CO.,
Engineers, Coppersmiths, Brass and Bell Founders,
Finishers, Plumbers, Ship & General Smiths,
Gasfitters, Art & Medieval Metal Worker
ROLLER SKATES (any make) with BRASS or WOO WEN WHEELS.
■cr •*. . r as ifirpa Heaters and Ventilators at greatly Reduced Prices 11,000 Fires already in use
£»Stur«. of Diving Gelt, Yiht and Boat Work of every description in
Iron .CS Single and Double Action Valve Closet., Fite Hydrant., Hose and all appliances
Bon Accord Works, 9 Macquarie Place, Sydney.
HIGHLY NUTRITIVE
MAY Bt OBTAINED IN LABELLtU IIN6 UH PAUKETB THROUGHOUT 1 HF rniUN>
NOW ACKNOWLEDGED
THE BEST
IN THE MARKET
Uirnirf’
ni ju itU
HISKV
SOLD
EVERYWHERE
M.W.tCS
Sole Agents: JAMES MOIR & CO., 58 Margaret-at., Sydnej
Eu CA LY PTtOiua
THE TREE OF LIFE.
Victory Ointments.
Duncan irl oas,
The Great American Athlete,
CURED of INFLUENZA by using COLEMANE & SONS-
EUCALYPTE EXTRACT.
DON’T BE DECEIVED.
If you want the best Medicine the world has ever pre-
duced, try Colbmane & Sons’ Eucalypti: ExißACT—there
are no ten medicines equal to it. It is one of Nature’s
greatest gifts to mankind. It is the only known cure for
Asthma, Consumption, Bronchitis, and all affections of
the Chest and Lungs. For Palpitation of the Heart,
Gravel and Kidney complaints it has no equal. Fevers of
all kinds, Coughs,' Colds, Rheumatism, etc., are banished
by its use. Awarded Medals and Diplomas Adelaide,
Sydney and Melbourne, beating all competitors. Singers
and public speakers will find C. and Sons’ Eucalypti*
Honey a wonder. ZW° Be sure and get Colemanb and
Sons.
A POSITIVE CURE.
tyR. BOH ANNAN’S Curative Remedies for all Privat*
-D Nervous, and Special Complaints. Always reliable.
Descriptive chart sent, sealed, for two stamps. Addree*
Hotel Metropole Pharmacy, Phillip-street, Sydney,
N.S.W.
SEND FOR Dr. PERRY’S F AMOUS WORK ON DISEASES 01
THE REPRODUCTIVE ORGANS, FREE ON APPLICATION.
E 3
consult DR PERRY, M.R.C.S., L.S.A., etc.
(REGISTERED BY THE MEDICAL BOARD OF NEW SOUTH WALES),
Late House Surgeon to the Great Northern Hospital, Caledonian Road, London,
SPECIALIST in the Treatment of Diseases of the
Reproductive Organs and Nervous Complaints.
Dr. PERRY was induced to publicly advertise himself as a
Specialist in this branch of the profession in consequence of the number
of persons suffering from diseases of this nature remaining uncured ; and
this is not surprising, when it is remembered, m consequence of the
general dislike of the profession to undertake these cases, the public
health has suffered, because the majority of p rsons advertising to treat
these diseases, and calling themselves Doctors, 1 rofessors, etc.,
An Neither the One nor the Other,
and exist chiefly because DULY QUALIFIED MEDICAL PRAC-
TITIONERS have not occupied the field.
Patients can, therefore, readily see the advantage of being treated
by a practitioner who has gone through a thorough Medical, Surgical and
Anatomical Training in the best hospitals ; and the Doctor argues that,
although it may be considered contrary to antiquated medical etiquette
" Svertijyet 1» i, ti.. u.ef„l„ raB T»«
the profession more by searching out and relieving this class of d scase
than by leaving them severely alone to the care of men who, however good
their intentions, have neither the opportunities or advantages of a legulai
medical training to become acquainted with the best methods of treating
these complex forms of disease.
■m.
m
i s
IDr.
Will be happy to advise persons suffering from these
diseases, and as, in many cases,
Nothing hut the observance of a few simple directions
as to Self-Management
is required to place the patient in a healthy state, all who
are in any way affected should consult him, and thus have
the benefit of his advice and experience.
m
Diabetes successfully treated by a totally new
method of Cutaneous Medication.
Tumours also specially treated by successful method.
ALL CASES GUARANTEED.
Varicocele Quickly and Successfully Treated without Operation.
COITSTJX.T-A.TlOlsr HOTJBS :
From 10 a.m. to 4 p.m each week day, and from 7 to 9 p.m on Tuesday and Saturday evenings.
An Consultations, either by Letter or Personally, ABSOLUTELY FREE.
Db. perry treats his patients personally, and invites public investigation into his credentials.
Note address ■ Elmley House, 151 Eliiabet, i s,raß V S 7° N *


Medical,
NERVOUS MEN.
Ml
3?
ft
' 'eureka vn\
ELECTRIC BELTrt'
A / </r \\\ \ 'Vv, i\\ w \ts,V
MS
I
■MI-
S'
A NEVER FAILING- CURE FOR ALL.
DISEASES OF THE NERVOUS SYSTEM.
Complete with Suspensory Appliances from £l. 0. 0 and
upwards. This famous Electric Magnetic Belt will cure
NERVOUS DEBILITY, Seminal Debilityf Impotence!
and all weakness caused by indiscretion. Pains in the
Back, Lumbago, Giddiness, Rheumatism, Kidney and
Bladder complaints, and in fact any disease of the Nervous
Bystem. Ihe currents are steady and constantly felt by
the wearer. It has great improvements over all other
belts, we are willing to furnish those belts on 30 days
tnal, and accept payment after they have proved them-
selves what we represent them to be. Those belts are
, il! ' the specific purpose of producing a continuous,
mild, soothing current of electricity through all the weak-
ened parts, restoring them to health and vigorous strength
even the worst case permanently cured in three months!
It is more convenient to wear than any other Belt
A Book illustrated, containing full information and testi-
monials from prominent people throughout Australia.
ai ?d informing persons how they may obtain these belts
without paying for them until they have proved them com-
petent to cure any disease of the Nervous System, will be
forwarded to any address on receipt of a 2d stamp for
postage.
Address;— VOLTAIC BELT COMPANY
Box 916, Q, P, 0., Sydney,
Dr. James D. Llewellyn,
(registered)
SPECIALIST In
GEEITO-UEINAEY DISEASES,
May be CONSULTED at
-3 25 LONSDALE STREET—
<between Swanston <k Elizabeth StsJ,
MELBOURNE.
Consulting Hours—lo to 2; 7to 9. Sunday
Mornings, 10 to 11.
All Personal Consultations are free ; by letter the
Pee is £l, which is inclusive of medicines.
*ss*
M
? cii
Barry’s
Tricoglieroiis
for the
HAIR ft SKIN
An elegant dressing ex-
quisitely perfumed, re*
moves all impurities from
the scalp, prevents bald*
ness and gray hair, and causes the hair to grow
Thick. Soft and Beautiful. Infallible for curing
eruptions, diseases of the skin, glands and muscles,
and quickly healing cuts, burns, bruises, sprains, &c.
Caution.—None genuine without the trade-mark of
Barclay & Co., New York, affixed to each bottle.
f
arryS
EARi
Cream
forth©
Imparts to the darkest skin a clear, natural white
Wmik If nte f T B-Wneh. Speedily removes
fhf ? a e s’ ? re 9 kles . Sunburn and Tan, and mantles
th r{imn C w ee w Wlth you,hful bloom and beauty.
of Barela v °*t gel S ln ? "''S 10111 the trade mark
oi Barclay & Co., New York, affixed to each bottle
ailmlnts of L,m a nu nd t a v, 0 • su ® ere a rs - In all the ordinary
Snild h S A the ( r beneficent action is at once
'“™«l only »t 78 Nnw
If h tS 8 H° U d - look t 0 the Label on the Boxes^ndPo“g‘
BpurioS. dreB3 13 not 523 x t°i‘d-street, London f they "are
T
A
R
T
St
C
o
m:
p
A
N
y
LOONG SHAN TEA HOUSE
NOW OPEN,
Quo »S Tart & Co.’
extensive new premises
(Nearly opposite Theatre Royal).
A „ FIRST-CLASS grills,
A wt! “ all kinds of Refreshments, may
l 'e obtained from 7.30 a.m. to 11,30 p.m.'
CUP OF DELICIOUS TEA.
ICED DRINKS OF ALL KINDS, &c.
fieS er0 ° ms T ares P lendidl y furnished and
ntted up. in addition to the large and
„ a PPOinted Refreshment Rooms,
gentlemen will find on the Second Floor
Commodious and Comfortable Smoking
PhL Conversation Rooms, furnished with
Chess, Draughts, &c., &c.
TO THE LADIES.
Privntt h T? lirSt r Flo T 0r J V - ill be fonnd Nice
W itt/Ti® LadleS » convenient for
Reading, &e., also Retiring
coW vL i bavator .y, with both hot and
cold water laid on. Inspection Invited.
uJfe* Teas imported—Packets £lb. and
BUPP le ° orders P rom Ptly at-
-137 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
T
A
R
T
&
C
O
M
P
A
N
Y
PATENT
PIUS.
Medical.
A WONDERFUL MEDICINE.
Beecham’s Pills
Are universally admitted
to be worth a Guinea
a Box for bilious
and nervous disorders,
such as wind and pain in
the stomach, sick head-
ache, giddiness, fulness
and swelling after meals,
dizziness, and drowsiness,
cold chills, flushings of
heat, loss of appetite,
shortness of breath, cos-
tiveness, scurvy, blotches
on the skin, disturbed
sleep, frightful dreams,
and all nervous and trem-
bling sensations, Sets. The
first dose will give relief
in £ ited t^5 en one m box te o S f feese
runs, and thev will be acknowledged to be
Worth a Guinea a Box.
For females of all ages these Pills are invaluable,
brim, iZ f d °nhv? *. them carry oft all humors, and
be vfithm f* n tha L ls re 3 U!red - No female should
emill th + n 4 i s no medicine to be found
j t J° BEECHAMS PILLS for removing any
” or irregularity of the system. If taken ac-
coidmg to the duectmns given with each box they will
S,f est “ e f ? mal , cs °f all ages to sound and robust
trlpi+u ThlS be f« proved by thousands who have
thek use™’ foimd the beneflt3 which are ensured by
Nor a weak stomach, impaired digestion and all disorders
of the liver, they act like “ MAGIC,” and a few doses will
oe found to work wonders upon the most important
S' 1S 111 tbe human machine. They strengthen the
syste ™> restore the long-lost complexion,
bring back the keen edge of appetite, and arouse into ac-
tion with the ROSEBUD of health the whole physical
energy of the human frame. These are “PACTS” testified
continually by members of all classes of society ; and
one ot the best guarantees to the nervous and debilitated
3 Beechams Pills have the largest sale of any patent
medicine in the world.
Beecham’s Magic Cough Pills.
As a remedy for Coughs in general, Asthma, Bronchial
Affections, Hoarseness, Shortness of Breath, Tightness
and Oppression of the Chest, Wheezing, &c., these Pills
stand unrivalled. They are the best ever offered to the
public and w ill speedily remove that sense of oppression
and difficulty of breathing which nightly deprive the
patient of rest. Let any person give Beecham’s Cough
Pills a, trial and the most violent Cough will in a
short time be removed.
Prepared only and sold wholesale and retail by the pro-
prietor, Thomas Beeoham, Chemist, St. Helens, Lancashire,
England, in boxes at Is. IJd. and 2s. 9d. eaoh.—Sold by
all Druggists and Patent Medicine Dealers everywhere.
N.B.—Full directions are given with each box.
CONSULT PROFESSOR SELBY,
376 Cleveland Street, Surry Hills, Sydney,
Personally or by letter on Chronic Complaints
of the Nervous System, Diseases of the Urinary
Organs and all Impurities of the Blood. A Positive
Cure in all cases amendable to treatment. Suf-
ferers should read the Professor’s valuable treatise,
sent post free to all who send their address. It
contains Advice on Marriage, worth its weight
in gold.
E P PS’ S
GRATEFUL—COMPOSTING
COCOA.
Dr. westcott’s amenorrhcea
PILLS for Ladies, when taken for a few
days before, quickly correct all irregularities
from whatever cause arising ; 2s. 9d. and 4s. 6d.,
by post 3s. and ss. W. H. SOUL and 00., 190
Pitt-street, Sydney, Agents,
Musical.
INGHAM'S
PAfEHT SCALE INSTRUCTOR
FOE THE—
PIAUQFOBTB.
PUPILS can obtain the above at once, and the best
way to illustrate its usefulness to them is to sup-
pose a man to live to be a hundred years old and never
to have seen a Piano, he would, with five minutes’
instruction, be able to play the most difficult Major and
Minor Scales on the instrument.
Miscellaneous.
TIT A. LEWIS, old-established Private Detective.
” ■ f or the discovery of Missing Friends* tracing
Absconders, watching Suspected Persons, and prosecuting
all kinds of Private and Confidential Enquiries ; obtaining
Evidence in Divorce, Libel, Fraud, Bigamy, Breach of
Promise ; extracts from or Copies Of Wills, or Certificates
of Births, Marriages or Deaths obtained in any part of the
world. Bankrupt Schedules Piled, £l, bv a legal gentle-
man duly admitted and practising in ail the courts of
N.S.W., who may be consulted at my office on all legal
work. Consultation Free. Rents and Debts Collected,
Distress Warrants issued, steady and trustworthy Bailiffs
employed, and all moneys received are promptly accounted
for. W. A. LEWIS cautions the public against so-called
old-established private detective agencies, as he is con-
nected with no agents in Sydney. An intelligent, well-
trained staff of Male and Female Assistants retained,
capable, when necessary, of assuming any character in
life—from a newspaper boy to a clergyman, or from a
servant girl to a lady. Terms Moderate. Consultation
Free. Address—
Pikenix Chambers, 158 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
[Tbi,ei‘iio\e 723.
WILLIAM CARGILL,
Photographic Stock Importer,
26 MAEEET STBSET,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
SPECIAL NOTICE.— TheSvDNEy Bulletin.
Tasmanian ( Edition Publishers, FITZ-
CEHALO BROS. Subscription (payablestrictly
in advance), Six Shillings and Sixpence per quar*
ter, or One Pound per annum.
The Buixktin will be on Sale every Friday at
he Office, George Street, Launceston, or from the
Runners in the street.
Business Announcements.
The bank of new Zealand
„ Sydney Branches :
t>4 PITT STREET, and 538 GEORGE STREET.
Paid-up Capital £1,125,000
The Bank has Agents in all the principal cities
throughout the United States of America and
Canada, and can offer special facilities for dealing
m Bullion, Bills of Exchange, Commercial and
Iravellers’ Letters of Credit. •
Drafts issued and Bills collected on most favour-
able terms, at rates which can be ascertained on
application.
N. F. GIBLIN, Manager.
FAMILY HOTEL.
JOSEPH NIMMO.
First-class Accommodation for Tourists and Families
Wires and Letters to be addressed “Proprietor.”
Arrangements can be made to provide transit for persons
wishing to view the celebrated Jeuoiau Claves and
other places of interest.
7
T
%
a
<n
sc
tT
OPTION
■
HAIR WORK DONE
*
>
n:
<5
22*24
ROYAL ARCADE
MELBOURNE
PRIVATE.
ROOMS
FOR LADIES
J. SITTERLIN,
PROM PARIS,
Ladies’ Hairdresser. Wigmaker, Sc Perfumer,
25 SYDNEY ARCADE, SYDN EY.
HISTORICAL AND FANCY HAIRDRESSING A
SPECIALTY.
Manufacturer of All Kinds of Theatrical
and Street Wigs.
Aiiiinoniated Quinine,
The most efficient Hai/Lotion, to prevent prema
ture baldness.
Sitterlin’s Vegetable Hair-dye,
The only Hair-dye in the colonies to restore Light
Hair to its natural colour. All shades.
Success G-uaranteeci.
SHfi\IHTCAST SDNs
MANUFACTURING HATTERS
GEORGE STREET
SYDNEY
IMPORTERS OF ALLTHE
NEWEST SHAPES,
And at ALBERT STREET, BRISBANE.
r
<R(
(0
ƒ
JJMCS Cz/AHNOb S/arlovrS*
Bk
tfSold. try alt SAoctA ti H SA'rtAttfiery
Business Announcements,
ipHE THREE GREAT EIGHTS!
Needles Patent Gas-making Machine;
T * ®L a ii vey Patent Safety Kerosene Lamp;
And the New Era Portable Gas Lamp.
The Harvey Lamp has been adopted by the
Kailway Commissioners for lighting the Sydney
trams. We were awarded the Highest Order of
Merit and Special Mention by experts at the
late Melbourne Exhibition for our lighting
mediums. Over 6000 Harvey Lamps are in use
in this colony, and for all lighting purposes are
giving universal satisfaction. These Lamps can
be seen on_ one of the North Shore ferry-boats,
and are suitable for all classes of vessels. The
Inventor offers £2OO to anyone producing as good
a Kerosene Burner.
Patentees for Australasia:
H. T. Smith & Co., 494 Kent St. South, Sydney;
14 Arcade, Adelaide, S.A.; Argent Street, Broken Hill:
Parkside Iron Works, Melbourne.
The Cheapest and Best Horsefeed
IN NEW SOUTH WALES.
CHAMPION OATEN CHAFF!
PRIME OAtEN CHAFF!
LUCERNE CHAFF!
. MIXED CHAFF!
Our own Cutting. Fresh every day.
Buy from us and save money. r WX
City Produce Company,
STEAM CHAFF-CUTTERS.
HAY STREET, HAYMARKET.
Read.! Read ! Read !
“THE BULLETIN’S”
History of Botany Bay,
By Arthur Gayll.
Profusely Illustrated by The Bulletin’s well-
known Artists,
L. HOPKINS and PHIL MAY.
Rrice - One Shilling
Per post, Is. 3d.
Hotels.
PFAHLEET’S HOTEL,
SYDNEY, N S.W.,
Opposite the Park, Wynyard Square,
(Under New Management.)
rpHIS for 25 years well-known First-class Central Hotel
recently thoroughly renovated throughout, has every
comfort and attention of a home. The Cuisine Department
is under competent French supervision. Dining Room
open for Non-Residents. Open-air Recreation Garden.
A well-v entilated Billiard Room adjoining Recreation
Ground (three Alcock’s best Tables), under the manage-
merit of A. Buckingham, late of Empire Hotel. Wines
and Spirits of the Very best quality only, and the Finest
and Coolest Bar in Town
HOT AND COLD BATHS.
I3T” NIGHT POKTI It. French
... , , German
Telephone No. 150. Italian
1
Spoken.
SPEC AL SUITES FOR FAMILIES.
CHAS. HECHT ... Manager.
Hr. and Mrs. Thomas Asche
Beg to inform their Friends and Patrons that,
in addition to other recent improvements at the
ROYAL HOTEL,
a first-class HYDRAULIC ELEVATOR has
been erected for the convenience of Visitors,
rendering it the most complete and comfortable
house in Sydney; and with the personal and un-
ceasing attention of Mr. and Mrs. Asche in every
detail of management, they rely on the continued
patronage of their many old friends, whose kindly
recommendation of the ROYAL HOTEL to their
friends will be esteemed.
THE GEORGE HOTEL
(opposite Railway Station, near Baths),
St. Kilda, Victoria.
First-class Family & Commercial Hotel.
» <3T For particulars, apply’ to
F. WIMPOLE,
PROPRIETOR.
STANDARD HCFTEL^
CASTI.EREAGH and BATHURST STREETS.
Thoroughly renovated throughout.
First cla‘s accommodation for Country Visitors.
G. BOYNE 7 ... Proprietor.
TCWH '
AO O LI) E N SHAN TY.
Pf'ice One Shilling.
Austin! ian stprips npd skefcjics js prose and verso
— by— -
“BULLETIN’' WRITERS.


SHE VILL & C 0„.
Gome? Queen Street and Flinders Lane,
MELBOURNE.
mo C A - TILS AV CTIONBERS,
Ilonria, Land, and Estate Agents,
pig
■ ■
0»»
m
-M
JJ
Advances made against shipments of Merchandise
and Colonial Produce.
Daily Sales held at their Commodious
New Booms.
OUTDOOR
Furniture & Land Sales Conducted.
Branch
OFKICtS
( 32 Chapel St,, Prahran. |
\. 2 Albert St., Windsor, f
Branch
Offices
f
Acknowledged
The Best
NTSTVST
FURNITURE
WAREHOUSES,
York Street, Wynyard Square, Sydney,
Now supply the General Public as well as the Trade.
ll—>»■<! ' "
10,000 Bedsteads,
From lOa. 6d. to £35.
a
ƒ
H. £&. Leach,
B. MODINI, Gunmaker, informs his Customers
Csf. alK i the Public in general that he has the largest
assortment of Firearms in the colony. Qualities and prices
to defy competition. 'Guns by the following ce ebiated
gunmakers Purdey & Sons, On. BoswaLU, John Ham
and Co., JOSEPH Lang & Sons, On. Osborne k Co., 1«oma»
Bland & Son, \7. Powell & Sons. A large oi
various other makers alvvhys on hand, viz,,
Scott, Wkbley, Hollis &-Son«, Kilby and Oasiimohl. All
o-ooda will be faithfully guaranteed at 602 George-
Street, Sydney. Price list on application.
T*TN nmaa Ross,
TOBACCO & CIGAR IMPORTER,
27 HUNTSK STREET, SYDNEY,
(Corner of Pitt Street.)
A large stock of Genuine Elnvanyali Cigars, of the
choicest Brands to select from.
Sole Importer of the Celebrated “ Fior rtc Boulto "
Brand of Cigars and “ Empire Cigarettes.”
Palls Pamily ]|[otel,
Falls Bridge, Melbourne.
This magnificent Hotel,’ containing 50 Double
and Single Rooms, is splendidly fumiched and
perfectly ventilated.
Hot and Cold Plunge and Shower Baths.
Electric Bells. Telephone 1217, Billiards, &c.
Terms Strictly . Moderate.
J. H. DURRANT° Manager
Late of the South Australian Club Hotel, Adelaide.
Frescriptions
Are to be found in the “Highl and Life,’
for the Speedy Cure of Nervous Debility and
Kindred Diseases, &c. A copy of this book Mill
be sent Free, sealed, for Six Fenny Stamps.
WARD & CO., SYDNEY PHARMACY,
76 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
fd
FRY’S MALTED COCOA.
Huntington Mill.
piP
Knowles’ I'mups.
PARKE & LACY GO.,
MINING & HYDRAULIC ENGINEERS
AND
GENERAL MACHINERY MERCHANTS,
&C>j &C. 9 &CS.
187 & 189 Clarence Street,
BYDKTEY, 3XT.S.W.
Ann BAM FRANCISCO, CALIFORNIA.
si
Wj
Itwck Breakers
y
WestliiKliaiise Engines.
ƒ
Hay St., Haymarket, Sydney,
ENGINES,
2 to 50 H.P.
BOILERS,
1 to 35 H.P.
STEAM PUMPS
For all purposes.
©Mil m
2" to 40" discharge.
HAND PUMPS.
Saw Benches.
Latliea.
DUILLE MACHINES.
&C,, &c.
m
TOBINS ENGINE!
Hauling Engines.
Battery Engines.
Saw-mill Engines.
FLOW HIKES,
ENGINES
FOR
Electric Lighting. |
Vertical Boilers.
Multitubular Boilers,
CORNISH BOILERS.
&0., &o.
~T . , .. Ao . Machinery of any kind for any purpose, large or small, to write for particulars and prices. From the extent of our stock we are generally able to give immediate delivery
We invite al those requiring Visitors whether buyers or not, are always welcome to inspect the magnificent, display in our new and extensive Showrooms,
128, 131, 133 & 135 HAY STREET, HAYMARKET, SYDKTEY.
