

AITKEN’S
ALE.
LIFE BUOY BRAND. V
THE BEST IN THE MARKET.
u
DICKENS
9 99
USED BY THE LATE CHARLES DICKENS,
A \)) SIPPLIKD TO THE PWSCIPII CXEBS IN B¥l>XEf.
Sarrisou.
& Attwood, 251 George-st., Sydney,
Sole Agents for
KTew South.
ROBERTS’
Street, S’lSr'IDiTSrsr-
TJNBIVADLBD ACCOMMODATION.
j
"T
ft
dry
At
R REFRIGERATOR.
: vr:o«
Beware of the many so-called Dry Air advertised by unscrupulous Manufacturers and Deajers, intending
to deceive the public and trade upon our reputation. This is the original and celebrated Dry Air Refrigerator, made
famous by its successful competition at the leading Exhibitions in the United States for the past Sis Years, known as
. . ; , the Baldwin Dry Air Refrigerator,
WHITE MOUNTAIN FREEZERS, ICE MILK CANS, MIXERS,
3U3Ei3MCO3Xr SQUEISiZSZIS, &c., &o.
2*£c lLean Bros. Sz Eigg, Xjtd_,
513 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
J. & C. HOWARD.
Howard’* Colonist 2-Fnrrow IHrslok
Howard’s Single-Farrow Wigging
Plough.—(O.I*>
Tlie Plpugli oJT the Times !
PLOUGHING AND HARROWING IN ONE ACT.
Share Points only cost 6d„ and are Reversible.
Horse Tteaks aiiit every khid <>f Aokicultukal Implements
IlsT STOCK.
par Enquirers please quote this paper.
, -;;
2801 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
(Corner or Pitt ani> Bathurst Streets).
!sss?
(3S
■ 'M
—THE^-
LONDON* SYDNEY
TE A_
COMPANY.
409— KENT STREET—4O9
(Two doors from Market Street),
SYDNEY, N.S. VY. '•
—IMPORT—
HIG H-C LASS I IST DI A ZLsT &c CHTHSTA
| TEAS
Packed in 3Qlb. and 401 b. Packages, and delivered at Is. 6d., Is. 9d. and 2m. per lb.
(Carriage Free) to any Railway .Station or Port in New South Wales.
A Single Package at Wholesale Price. Correspondence invited and promptly attended to.
The Bulletin
Vol. 11—No. 535.]
[Saturday, May 17, 1890


TOBACCO
Customs Returns,
American Leaf,
Sixson and Sons consumed in 1888, 52,fi92ibs.
more, and in 1889 (over 44 tons) 98,939 lbs. ruor.
American Leaf than all the rest of New South
W ales put together.
DIXSON’S TOBACCOS having the largest
sale of any in Australia are
We
*
*
*
a
o
S 3
o
O
V
yos\.
SIR ROGER
Dr. RIDGE’S
FOOD
FOE INFANTS aud INVALIDS
Has an enormous sale in England
and is now being introduced into the
Colonies.
Every Storekeeper should get a supply
as every Wise mother will certainly
use it.
DR. RIDGE S ROYAL FOOD MILLS.
LONDON, ENGLAND.
<-o
m
BROWN'S
SATIN
POLISH
—FOR —
LADIES’ AND CHILDREN'S
BOOTS AND SHOES.
Awarded highest honors at
Phila., 1876 Melbourne, 1880
Berlin, 1877 Frankfort, 1881
Paris, 1878 Anisterd’m 1883
New Orleans, 1884-85; and wherever
exhibited.
Paris mesial on every bottle.
Beware of Imitations.
This Blacking'is in liquid form and is applied to shoes
or other articles of leather by means of a sponge, attached
to the cork by a wire, ao that the blacking can be used by
anyone without soiling the Angers. No polishing brush
is required. It dries immediately after being applied, and
will not soil the most delicate clothing.
Sold largely in Australia through Commission Merchants
and Dealers.
B. P. BROWN & CO.,
Boston, U.S.A., M'fgs.
THE BALLARAT COFFEE PALACE,
Ltdiard Street, Ballarat,
'XTISIIORS to the Goldcfn City will find every
rrd convenience at the above Establishment.
Ihe Only Coffee Palace in Ballarat.
MODERATE CHARGES.
REID & SONS ... ... Proprietors.
ATKINSON’S
ENGLISH PERFUMERY
surpasses all others for its natural
fragrance.
ATKINSON’S
QUININE HAIR LOTION,
Unsurpassed for promoting the growth
and improving the appearance of the
hair, guaranteed perfectly harmless.
ATKINSON’S
FLORIDA WATER,
An exceptionally fine Perfume for
the Handkerchief, distilled from the
choicest exotics.
Of all Dealers and of the Manufacturers—
J. & E. ATKINSON,
24, OLD BOND STREET, LONDON.
Trade Mark—“ White Kose” on “Golden
Lyre,” with Address in full.
T. LAWLESS, June.,
37 MARKET STREET, ■
SYDNEY,
Insure Your Health Against All Risks
—BT TAKING —
Kruse's Fluid Magnesia .
It Cools the Blood, Promotes a Healthy Flow of the Secretions
and Fortifies the System against the Shafts of Disease.
The Best Aperient For Children. Numerous Gold Medals.
SUPERIOR to etll OTHERS!
(Vide Medical Testimonials, Analysis, &c., accompanying each Bottle.)
xx
TAKE ONLY KRUSE’S
Sold in Bottles at Is. 3d., 2s. 6d., 3s. Bd. Each.
Wholesale Agents; Messrs. ELLXOTT Bros., Ltd
CLARENDON HOTEL, MANLY,
The Brighton of New South Wales.
AT the CLARENDON HOTEL, Banquets. Suppers, Private Dinners, Evening Parties, etc., are
served on the Shortest Notice in the Large Dining Hall. Besides having a most rechereht
Dinner, you-can enjoy from the balconies the magnificent view of the sea and surrounding country
here also you can have good company, good wines-—in fact, everything that can possibly make one
comfortable can be found at this really first-class hotel. Fishing and Picnic Parties provided. Table
de ffote at One o’clock daily and Sundays. No expense is spared by Mrs. Kilminstek to make her
\ isitors comfortable and her Hotel the best in the colony.
XWCa’s. UrSTili-Ej JMXIWS'X'Bh-l, C?la,roix<slom. Hotel,
Opposite OCEAN BEACH. MANLY.
JjJDWIN G GOERTZ,
Stock and Share Broker,
ageist,
BRISBANE.
Member of the Brisbane Stock Exchange.
68 Hunter Street, and 8 Bligh Street,
SYDNEY.
S'. SHROEDEE
LIVERY, BAIT, LET-OUT AND COMMIS-
SION STABLES. |
Horae* and Vehicles of every description for
Sale or Hire: also, good reliable Ladies or Gentle-
men’s Hacks.
THE
Wolseley Sheep-Shearing* Machine.
PASTORALISTS are notified that, to avoid disappointment,
no time should be lost in Booking Orders for next Season!
Agents: J. H. GEDDES & CO.,
19 PHILLIP STREET, SYDNEY.
C'Mjyra'Ejir UP
'!>
VA>
D
<]/'■
cm
D
o n i
o
FFICES
m I LDURA
(«#
Melbourne
V/Ctor/a.
Chaffey Irrigation Offices, Swaastoa Strut.
B-E-Nm ark , South Australia .,
Adela i DE Cavendish Chambers, Grenfell Street
*'i r England _— J. E.MathewVincent,(ChiefCommissioner)
Cornwall Buildings, 35 Queen Victoria St.
LONDON EC
a C?
PRINCE OF WALES’ HOTEL,
St. EiXda, Victoria. '
Within Five Minutes from STATION, and One Minute from ESPLANADE and BATHS.
, MRS. KON<» MRNOr ... ... Px*oprietress.
LEA & PERRINS'
■ SAUCE.B
Paishviers should see that the Label on every bottle of the original
WORCESTERSHIRE SAUCE
bears the Signature, thus
Ask for Lea & Perkins’ Sauce, and see Name on ‘Wrapper. Label, Bottle and Stopper.
WhtUtah and for Export by the Proprietors, Worcester: Crosse $ Blackwell, London, se., se.f
and by Grocers and Oilmen throughout the World.
Everyone should Read
“HISTORY of BOTANY BAY,"
By ARTHUR GAYLL.
Profusely Illustrated by “The Bulletin’s” well-known Artists, L. Hopkins and Phil May.
- ONE SHILLING; per Post, Is. 3d.
Price
May be had from Agents, or direct from “Tlie Bulletin ” Office.
A.QENTs Victorian. A.. Benjamin, 321 Little Collins Street Last, Melbourne; Tasmanian; Fitzgerald Brothers, Greorge Street,
Launceston; Queensland; J. iL Thompson, Greorge Street, Brisbane.


BEALE «Sc CO.’S
NEW WAREHOUSE.
AND CHIEF OFFICES,
432, 434, k 486 Csorcfs Street,
SYZDH^BY.
HE VO LUT lONISING
xke 'pma.de.
Messrs. Beale & Co.’s Great Enterprise.
mHERE can be no quvs’iojiing the fact that the Piano
J Trade of these Colonies lias undergone a complete
revolution during the last five years ; and to that desirable
change certainly no firm lias contributed more than
Messrs. Heale and Company. During the time high prices
continued the trade was held by a few, and hundreds of
homes now remhwed attractive by the glorious influence
of music scarce con'd dream of becoming - the ultimate
owners of the instrument which has done so much to
cheer and to refine our modern domestic life.
When Beale and Company commenced business they
had quietly gauged this condition of affairs in Australia,
and they began operations on a plan which could alone
work out successively in a mammoth undertaking such as
they proposed. With the Australian selling branch of
their enterprise they resolved to combine the manufacture
of Pianos in Germany—the centre of the world’s trade for
that instrument. But the experts sent out here for the
purpose of fully determining what was best fitted for
colonial requirements reported that it was essential to
have a special make of piano to suit our climate—an in-
strument as different as those made for Europe as Aus-
tralia is different from the Old World. The result of this
was the production of the staunchest pianoforte of
modern times—the iron-framed “ Hapsburg.” The in-
strument is regarded by the most capable experts of
Europe as the Production of the Age, combining as
if .docs every feature of the highest class instrument with
the maximum of strength and durability, and it was placed
on the market at prices much under what other firms and
manufacturers had previously demanded. Although it
took almost endless trouble and long, patient labour to
produce t he design of the “ Inimitable Hapsburg,” yet once
produced the demand grew so rapidly, and has become so
great, that the enterprising originators arc able to out-
distance all competitors for both quality and price. The
peculiar construction of the iron frame, the excellence
of the wires, and the unique movements have, with all
other factors, contributed to this splendid success. No
other instrument possesses to the same degree such rich
full, clear, hell-like tones, so noticeable m the “Haps-
burg,” especially in the higher grades, while strength,
solidity, and imperviousness to climatic influences hove
been so well looked to that whether on me coldest o eak-
est spots of New Zealand or our own Monaro Plains, or in
the hottest of our Western and Northern areas, this
wonderful pianoforte not only maintains, but improves its
tone and consequent value even after years of use. And
it must continue so. The genius and experience of the
mechanical world in this branch of art arc embodied i .
this one instrument—the inimitable “ Hapsburg a d
the sales to-day give ample evidence of the repute in whi h
it is held. Beale Sc Company have placed Hie
“Hapsburg” with thousands of families in Australia.
Homes in the far-distant hack blocks, and homes in the
city, arc not only enlivened but are made purer and better
through the influence of its music. The firm resolved to
do a large trade by selling these superior instru-
ments at prices and on terms demanded for the
lower grades, and success has crowned their efforts.
They do by far the largest business, and hold the
largest stocks in the colonies. They give their best
efforts to suit the circumstances and requirements of
every customer, and they supply for cash or on an easy
system of Time-payment which they have made peculiarly
their own. The correspondence department is of itself a
huge undertaking; every mail brings its burden of letters.
From the great landowner, from the rich squatter, and
the astute merchant they come. And they came too
from clergymen, from doctors and solicitors, from civil
servants, and from the struggling selector, the tradesman,
the workingman ; for fathers and mothers of every grade
and class now recognise the influence which music exerts
for good in the life of the home. And every writer re-
ceives courteous attention and immediate response.
Hapsburg Double Iron-framed Pianos
Possess the following Advantages -
Ist.—-The wires are of a very high quality and in-
tensely sensitive; their vibrations, reverberated
by a sounding board of special construction, are
clear and bell-like, instead of the muffled, tin-
kettly, or metallic sounds so common in cheap
Pianos,
2nd.—Being double oblique the strings are. of a
greater length and fuller tone than in the old
straight-strung Pianos.
3rd. —The action is perfect check repeater, and is
made of pencil cedar, an expensive material,
and best for resisting climatic changes.
4th.— All the Hapsburg Pianos are Trichord.
•Jth. —They are all seven Octaves,
titli,—They have consolidated Iron Frames of
great strength, thus resisting the rapid muta-
tions of a tropical climate, whereby tuning is
m iuired at long intervals.
They oppose obstacles to the inroads of cock-
roaches, silver-fish, mice, &c. They have v\ ire
gauze backs which cannot be eaten by vermin,
and other unique improvements devised for
suniliar ends,
oth.—The Pelts are Clinched on the Hammers,
instead of being fastened only by glue, as is.the
case with nearly every Piano except the Haps-
burg.
•'Mi.-... They have brass nr nickel-faded 'VV rest-
Planks, instead of the- old-fashioned porHiable
. 'style,
•dlth. - -Rust, is guarded again.-b wherever possible,
Hr if substitution of bronze for other metals,
—tli.—.The outer eases are handsome in design,
and of durable beautiful woods; they can be
bad in walnut, or in walnut and gold, or in
gold.
—-No matter in what part of the colony you
> ve, we will supply you with a Hapsburg Piano
upon easy terms of payment. No charge will bo
made for packing or fur packing cases.
Hapsburg Pianos. Haydn Organs.
Photographs and Price-lists by post or from'our
" n travellers everywhere.
Business Announcements.
±
MERCHANT and IMPORTED,
22 & 24 Clarence Street
(Comer Margaret St.),
SYDNEY.
2, St. James’ Buildings
(WILLIAM STM LET),
MELBOURNE.
:F'l©l3oJL]£Xg’ ? SB
RELIABLE
Buggies.
j
High-Class Buggies, Phaetons,
Waggons and Harness.
a-
Farm Waggons,
Express Waggons.
CARTS
For One and Two Passengers.
j
THE
I'lillil
FliilUii*
SmitlJ
ilt'ii*
WiIHIIH*
IrtUllHi
!3
Whisky.
<<> .
m
X
(TC
\C
'V
:Q
CLARENCE Si
SYDNEY.
AGENTS
in New South Wales.
/ TRIUMPH
OVER Bad.
Used in hospitals throughout the world in preference to the
best French Brandy. TRY IT.
If You have
Nervous Debility
Sick Headache-
Bilious Oompints
Fever & Ague,
Wasting of Flesh
Sleepless Nights
Neuralgia,
Or any disease of the
Liver, Bowels or Kidneys, Lack of
Strength or Nerve Power,
you can be Relieved and Cured by
LARMERS
CELEBRATED
TONIC.
Price, 2s 6d & ss; Post, Is extra-
Prepared only bv—
o.A.ii>rs s 6 CO.,
Chemists,
78 KINO STREET, SYDNEY.
lor Sale hr nil (lieniNti.
M. W. & Co.
CARLSBAD
NATURAL MINERAL WATERS
are row Imported in bottles and used in treat
ment of CHRONIC GASTRIC CATARRH, HYPER
CEMIA of the LIVER, GALL STONES, CHRONIC
CONSTIPATION, DIABETES, RENAL CALCULI,
GOUT, and diseases of the spleen arising from
residence in the tropics or malarious districts,
THE NATURAL
CARLSBAD SPRUDEL - SALT
In small and frequent doses Is an efficient
DIURETIC,but as an APERIENT it should ho taken
BEFORE BREAKFAST, in doses of from 1 to 2 tea
spoonfuls, dissolved in water. To increase the
APERIENT action of the Carlsbad Mineral Water,
a teaspoonful of the Salt, previously dissolved
In water should be added.
SOLE CONSIGNEES for the V.K. and the Colonies
INGRAM & ROTLE, 82, Farringdon St., London,
And of all Chemists throughout the World.
The Natural Mineral Waters of
{state
VICHY
SPRINGS.)
GRANDE-GRILLE . —For Affections of the
Liver, Biliary Organs, &c.
CKLEBTINB.— -For the Kidneys, Gravel, Gout
Rheumatism, Diabetes, &c.
HOFITAL.— For Stomach Complaints.
HAUTERIYB.— An excellent Table Water.
or ALL CHEMIST# IN AUSTRALASIA.
Business Announcements.
MASON BROTHERS,
Ss*i
LIMITED*
263 to 269 KENT STREET,
SYDNEY,
1 lave always in Stock for Sale to the
Trade and Wholesale Buyers Only,
Ironmongery, ami
GENERAL HARDWARE
Glass, Mima ami
EARTHE N W A R E.
WISES, BEERS <fc SPIRITS ,
AND GENERAL
BULK MERCHANDISE.
Agents for
JOHN WALKER and SONS
Old Highland Whisky.
LUOIEN FOUOAULD * CO.’S
Old Brandies,
.). T. GAYEN’S.
Schnapps and Geneva.
A, MEL V I N and SON S’
Edinburgh Pale Ale.
SEND TO
HEKT JFL-5T jESLXJXTO-,
SCENIC and PORTRAIT PHOTOGRAPHER,
315 GEORGE SIREET, -SYDNEY,
--I'OK
Catalogue of the most teomplcte, Series of Views to
he obtained in A ustralia.
Jenolan Caves, Ilawkesbury and Nepean Rivers,
Blue Mountains, Harbour and Coast Views,
Victorian and New Zealand Views.
Groups of Australian Aboriginals and South Sea
Island Natives, &0., &c.
Medical.
TDFL, SPEER’S
AMERICAN DISPENSARY
3 X Yor lv Street.
P.O. Box 920.
Dr. Speer is a regular Graduated-Physician, educated at
Harvard College, TJ.B. (for confirmation see New Zealand
Gazette, January 21st, 1886; also New South Wales
Gazette, April 17th, 1888). The doctor has devoted 14
years to the study of CHRONIC, NERVOUS, AND
SPECIAL DISEASES. Four of these were in the loading
hospitals of the United States, which enables him (o treat
all complaints with excellent results. AH applying to
him will receive his honest opinion of their complaints.
No experimenting ;no Mercury used. Ho will guarantee
a positive cure in every case he undertakes, or forfeit
£2OO. His reason for doing so is this—when there is no
organic disease, and nothing but an inorganic trouble, or,
in other words, a conglomeration of symptoms producing
a certain result, there is no reason why it cannot be re-
moved with the proper remedies, therefore he guarantees.
He wishes it distinctly understood that lie does not claim
to perform impossibilities, or to have miraculous power
he claims only to be a skilled and successful physician
thoroughly informed in his speciality —CHRONIC' ark
SPECIAL DISEASES or MEN ami WOMEN. People
residing at a distance can, by explaining their (roubles in
detail be treated at home. The course of treatment will
not in any way interfere with their business. Examina-
tion and advice free to ail. Charges moderate, IT. .1.
Speke, M D., 31 York-street, Sydney. Post Office Box,
No. 920. Office hours, 10 a.in. o 12 a,in. 2to 1 and 7
to 8 p.m. Sundays from 10 to 11 a.m. only.
m
°'CT n
TO YOUNG MEN.
DR. FLETCHER S
TREATISE ON NERVOUS DISEASES, THEIR CAUSE,
SYMPTOMS, TREATMENT, AND CURE.
T'HE directions contained in this little treatise will be
found of immense benefit to the sufferer; and if these
directions are observed during the early stages of Nervous
or Sexual Debility, Xo Medicines will he required, as, by
observing the directions given, (he patient can Cure Him-
self. _
This admirable little treatise is specially written to
show a method of counteracting the evil effects of indis-
cretions in early life—overwork, irregularity in eating or
drinking, &o. It is the result of much study and long
and successful. experience in the treatment of diseases,
and contains a fund of .useful information to every suf-
ferer _ from the following complaints, viz.: —Nervous
Debility, Dizziness, Specks before the Eyes, Pains in the
Back, Defective Memory, Loss of Will Power, Loss of
Energy, Spermatorrhoea, Bashfulness, Discontentedness,
Constipation, Liver and; Kidney Derangements, Atrophy,
Impotence, Impure Blood, Foul Taste in Mouth, Palpita-
tion of Heart, Wakefulness, Despondency, Excessive Ner-
vousness, Inability to Marry, Premature Decay, and other
symptoms experienced by nervous sufferers.
All Should Send for this Littld Treatise.
If the complaint is of long standing and requires
medicine, Dr. Fletcher will GUARANTEE TO CUBE
ANY CASE OF NERVOUS or SEXUAL DEBILITY
with ONE COURSE OP MEDICINES LASTING FIVE
WEEKS, and will send with medicines A WRITTEN
GUARANTEE to cure same or return the monies paid.
Dr. Fletcher’s treatment is both simple and effective,
and within the reach of the poorest. It is unlike any
other, and with it be has cured over ‘25,000 patients, and
invites patients to investigate his statements by v erifying
the testimonials published in his treatise. The treatis>
will be forwarded on receipt of two stamps to cover
postage.
CONSULTATION BY LETTER. FEEL.
Address in first instance—
DR. H. EWART FLETCHER,
Box 1417, G.P.O.
Sydney, N.S.W.
Private address—Clonmel House, Waverley, Sydney.
Remember, all eases undertaken, guaranteed, and a
signed agreement given, which provides that NO COST
be incurred by the patient if a cure is not effected.
VARICOCELE RADICALLY CURED WITHOUT
OPERATION.
Mention this Paper.
IN THE PRESS.
“-A. O-OHL-DlEllsr
By “BULLETIN’’ WRITERS.


A. pleasantly-situated Property, thoroughly cleared, close to Liverpool Station, Torrens Title. £1 deposit; 10s. pel month.
.A.. W. STEPHEU, 28 CASTLEBEAGH STIRIEIBT:, S~Y~3DEsTEY-
“ 4 Golden Sliailty.” IKiP a Selection from the brightest of the original literary matter which has made The Bulletin' world-famous. Price, Is. : posted, od. exli.t.
Public Companies.
The Australian Mercantile Loan and
Guarantee Go.- (Limited).
Head, Office ;
(Turner of Market ami Vork Streets, SYDNEY.
Melbourne—2S3 Collins.-stroet East.
Brisbane —Corner Edward and Elizabeth Streets.
Newcastle —27 If miter-street.
Directorate;
KUANK .1. SMITH. Esq., M.L.A., Managing Director.
J |*. HOWE, Esq;. M.L.A. O. J. FINLAYSON, Esq.
K. 11. HI (1 lAN AN. Esq. JAMES MILLEI!, Esq.
The Company grant immediate advances upon
Deeds of Land, Bills of Lading, Merchandise,
Storage, and Bond Certificates, and all classes of
mercantile and other approved securities, for fixed
terms or repayable by instalments.
Interest Allowed «n Deposits;
3 months ... 0 per cent.
A. MILLER ... Uenkkai. Manager.
THE
Australian Banking Company,
LIMITED.
ITIT and MARKET STKEEIS, SYDNEY,
Incorporated under the Cowjwnies Act, IS?/,.
Authorised < 'apital, £ooo,ooo, in 100,000 Shares of £5 each.
SUBSCRIBED C'AVITAIi, £70.000.
FRANCIS ABIGAIL, M.L.A.,
Chairman uf the Board of Directors.
A Branch of the Bank has been opened at Goulburn
under the management of C. H. Atkinson, Esq. (lately
Branch Manager of the Bank of New South Wales) for the
transaction of General Banking Business. _
The Bank has paid its Shareholders a dividend of 10 per
cent, every half-year since its formation.
The Batik transacts all usual hanking business in every
particular. . , .
Special advantages granted to Commercial Clients.
Overdrafts granted against deposit of Deeds.
THE highest bates of interest given for
FINED DEPOSITS.
The Share Register is now open for the allotment of
Shares—New ISme.
Bv order of the Board of Directors.
RODERICK M‘NAMARA, Manager.
Forms of application for Shares may be obtained at the
Bank.
City mutual fire insurance
COMPANY. Limited.
Estaiii,i, sum 1877.
Capital ... ... £500.000.
Head Office:
25 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY.
A Cask Boxes of 10 per cent, is paid to Policyholders
on renewals every year. Insurances covering Loss by Fire,
I Chining or Gas Explosion at Lowest Rates.
Th e DIVIDEND of 8 PER CENT, to 31st December,
18S0 is now being paid, and the BONDS ot 10 PER
CENT, to Policyholders will, as usual, be paid on re-
newal of (heir policies.
Money to Lend on Approved Sectuitv.
X.b,—The Bonus paid is equal to that paid by any
Fire Company in Sydney.
ROBERT KERR, Manager.
Medical.
COLEMame^ohS
i
r
Mi
rfiA
THE TREE OF LIFE.
mi gEte^-IS'
EIUCALYPTL OILSa.
P*J.n3wlNlo AUOIDIA
Duncan R oas,
The Great American Athlete,
CURED of INFLUENZA by using GOLEMANE & SONS’
Kl'C'ALY PTE EXTKACT.
DON’T l( 1C N I.IE
If you want the best Medicine the world has ever pro-
duced, try Colkmank, is Sons’ Eccalyi’ik Extract—there
arc no ten medicines equal to it. It is one of Nature’s
greatest gifts to mankind. It is the only known cure for
Asthma, Consumption, Bronchitis, and all affections of
the Chest and bungs. For Palpitation of the Heart,
Gravel and Kidney complaints it has no equal. Fevers of
all kinds, Coughs’ Colds, Rheumatism, etc., are banished
by its use. Awarded Medals and Diplomas Adelaide,
Sydney and Melbourne, beating all competitors. Singers
and public speakers will find C. and Sons’ Eucai.yi'TK
IIoni.v a wonder. Be sure and get Colemanr and
Hons.
Business Announcements.
NOW acknowledged
TH E BEST
N THE MARKET
j
M.W.t CS
SOLD
EVERYWHERE
Sole Agents: JAMES MOIR&CO., 58 Margavet-st, Sydney
(5. H. SMITH & SON,
MANUFACTU RERS * IMPORTERS OF
302 George Street, Sydney,
3 Doors South of Hunter Street.
j
A Large Assort
aicnt of English and
French Goods, from
the best Makers to
choose from.
Every description
of HATS and CAPS
made to Order.
XJISTOKY OF BOTANY HAY
PRICK ONE SIIILLTXO.
Business Announcements.
■wool-.- WOOL.
THE NEW ZEALAND
Loan & Mercantile Agency
COM V A NY. I. 1M I T.E D.
BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Oatitat, £4,500,000 ... Reserve, £270.000
Wool Season, 1888-89.
Regular Sales of V7ool Held Throughout the
Season.
milE greatest care bestowed on the Valuation and the
L Displaying and Protecting all Wools entrusted to
the Company for sale, whether from large or small clips.
*•■»«••• Crowds Adtlined and Consulted with before Sales
of their Clips are made.
I.IHK.RAL Cash Advances, where desired, on Uool lien
of Ensuing Clip, and on Wool and other Produce, -whether
for sale in Sydney or shipment to t.ondon.
Auction Sales op Sheer Skins, Marsupial
Skins, Hides, Tallow, Ac., Held Regularly.
Every Information Supplied on AppUeation.
G. S. CAMPBELL, Manager.
SYDNEY WOOL Ss GRAIN WAREHOUSES
Bridge and Loftus Streets.
Jr. lIOOMH'I .V SON, Manufacturer* and lu.-
porters of Superior Oak-Tannko Lkatiiku Lki.iinoi
a nd every description of Leather Goods for Mining and
Engineering purposes.
J 5
h:
AlUxjous nearing the ahove Trade Mark are warranted
(o °ive entire satisfaction, or may be returned at tne
Makers’ expense. The Pioneer Oak-tanned Leather
Belting is used exclusively by the N.S.M. (Jovernment.
Over £00,001) runninj ‘hi Auxivaho- The cheapest and
best Belting in the world. Send for prices and catalogues
162 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
The LONDON & SYDNEY TEA COMPANY,
IMPORTERS OF TIKI IT-CLASS TF.AS,
400 mEWT STREET, SYDNEY.
Packed
0 l s -
in 12, 20, and 401 k Caddies
6d., Is. ( .)d., and 2s. per it).
I
r
33
r
Yi
r
r
r
Delivered free to any Railway Station
or Port in New South Wales.
“ No. John ;no moro Tea from you. 1 buy now from the London and Sydney Tea Company.”
—THE -
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL
FIRE
Insurance Society
Established
Bomiseß
OK
20 per cent. Paid Annually
since 1873.
I
I
Head Office
—THE
Oldest Mutual Fire Office
in Australia.
Claims promptly and liberally
settled. Fifteen clays’grace
allowed for Renewal of Policies.
Lowest Current Rates charged.
lion. George Thornton. V.
Chairman.
Head Offich:
Corner Pitt Sc King Streets,
SYDNEY,
Walter Chur eh ... Manager-
Announcements.
TiO
i
m-
BAYIEE & CO.,
General Auctioneers and Estate Agents,
;t‘»3 Collins Street, Melbourne, anil 14 Clini*ei
Street, South Yarra.
isiiip
yMBRKLLAS
RE-COVERS ft
dTUDY economy
and
Have your Umbrella Frames
Re-Covered, and your
Parasols Re-Lined and made
Equal to New, at
J . SlTlililV A N ’ S,
541 George Street,
Brickfield Hill, Sydney,
between
Liverpool <C Bathurst Sts.,
Parasols made to match Cos-
tumes. Repairs neatly done.
PAPER-HANGINGS
Oils,C^ loOßS 4 Paints.
wall Papers moM^L
P/U
529 George Si/BathurstSt
■ Brickfield Hill.
PULVEEMACHER’S WORLD-
FAMED GALVANIC BELTS
KOn THE CURE OP
Nervous Exhaustion and Debility, Sciatica,
Lumbago, Rheumatism, &c.,
HAVE received Testimonials from Three
Physicians to Her Majesty the Queen and
the Leading Physicians of many London Hospi-
tals, including over Forty Members of the Royal
College of Physicians of London.
For full Price-list and particulars, see new pam-
phlet “Galvanism : Nature’s Chief Restorer of
Impaired Vital Energy.” Pamphlets Free.
Sole Agents for N.S.W.,
FROST <Sc SHIP HAM
ELECTRICIANS,
474 & 587 George Street, Sydney.
Sole Agents for Victoria;
ALLISON BROS., 477 Collins-street West, Melbourne.
0Y A L STAN D A R D 110 TE L’
CASTLEREAGH and BATHURST STREETS.
First-class accommodation for Country Visitors.
THOMAS M CREEBY-
MEDICAL HERBALIST,
S 3 Oxford Street, 4 doors above Riley Street.
Private Diseases of Doth Sexes a Speciality•
Consultations Gratis, Charges very Moderate.
A Trial Solicited.
A SPEEDY CURE GUARANTEED.
Thoroughly renovated throughout.
G. BOYNE
Proprietor
CITY & COUNTY
Investment, Land and Building
Company, Limited.
Authorised Capital, £lOO,OOO ... Reserves and Uncalled Capital, £37,000.
Hates for Deposits: 12 months, 7 per cent.; 0 months, CJ per cent.; at call. 6 per cent.
Honua to 12 months’ Depositors.
Directors: .1. (< a tut A tin, M.P., lion. .1. IT. Yocno, M.P., .1. P. Walker., J.P., Jons G. Hamilton.
J. 1). Warh, Mannirer, 1 ill --1 ivet, Sydney.
j
327 PITT STREET, S Y ID IST IE Y .


The Bulletin
Vol 11- No. 535.
SATURDAY. MAY 17, 1890.
Price, G 1.
OUR “HISTORY-MANUFACTURERS.”
(ON THE WAY TO THE FEDERAL CONVENTION).
FIRST FUTURE FOREFATHER : “Ah! I wonder if any of us present will live to see Federation an accomplished fact!”
BOSS FOREFATHER: “I hope so; I hope so. Although (here a dreamy, faraway look strals over the reteran's countenance) if those Melbourne feller wind
up this 'ere conention with another baneuet, I know one of us that won't!"


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
“ Australia for the Australians.”
Proprietors : BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO.,
Limited,
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 24 Pitt- street, Sydney, New South Wales,
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(payable in advance, only).
Pa'Annum ... ••• IS 0 0
Half-yearly ... ’ &
Quarterly 0 6 6
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed, to William Macleod, Managing Director.
Literary Communications to be addressed to J. F.
Archibald.
The Editor will carefully read and acknowledge in uie
“ Correspondence ” column all contributions submitted—■
whether in the form of Political, Social, or other Articles,
Verse, Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in
length, or say 3000 words, arc specially acceptable),
Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper-Clippings. AU
communications null be regarded as strictly confidential.
“ The Bulletin” will return all unavailable MSS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we
desire those sending MSS. to distinctly understand that
■we are not responsible for the preservation or transmission
of such MSS.
NOTICE.
By sending direct to Tub Bulletin Office Twenty Shillings
sterling—which you may pay by Post Office Order, One
Pound Note, or Stamps of any Australian colony—you
can have The Bulletin posted regularly to you every week
for a year.
This offer is not open to residents of Sydney. In that
city The Bulletin is not delivered by mail, but is entirely
in the hands of our carriers, with ichom we do not wish
\o interfere.
7^e
SATURDAY. MAY 17, 1890.
The Queensland Labour Difficulty.
•I ust now organised Australian Labour is
confronted with a difficulty which may
develope into one of the most desperate and
far-reaching struggles between employers
and employed that lias ever taken place in
this country. For some time past an in-
creasing degree of attention has been given
by the workers of the Northern colony to
the practical unification of their numbers in
order to secure the fullest possible return for
their toil. The (questions of Chinese and
kanaka labour, which have been growing
more momentous and urgent of late, have,
among others, had the effect of awakening
the wage-earners to the necessity for con-
solidation and enrolment in an organised
body. About the end of last year the
Queensland Labourers’ Union jointed hands
with the Australian Labour Federation
and made a determined attempt to resist the
efforts of the squatters to reduce the wages
of casual bush labour below the rate of 30s.
per week. The effect of this was that,
although notice of an intended reduction
.had been given by the employers, in almost
all cases the rate of wages was maintained.
The most notable instance of resistance to
what one would judge to be a very reason-
able demand was that of Mr. Tyson, a wool-
millionaire who liberally supports Christian
churches, Soudan Contingents, and cut-
throat competition. The Shearers’ Union,
however, which had that matter in hand,
with the promise of help from the Austra-
lian Labour Federation, showed its grit
so unmistakeably that Mr. Tyson came
down. But in the meantime the Dar-
ling Doyviis pastoralists, it is alleged,
decided to try their hands at com-
bination also,, and endeavour to turn an
honest penny by getting cheaper labour than
the Unionswvere inclined to supply. They
selected .londaryan Station as a test-place,
owing to its proximity to a rail way-station,
ami the consequent ease with which wool
could be transported from flic shed. This
move was to a, certain small extent success-
ful. After a world of trouble and perturba-
tion of spirit, the proprietors of .londaryan,
employing non-union labour but paying
union rates, managed to get their wool shorn
and delivered on the wharf at Brisbane for
shipment. But the Shearers’ Union called
in the assistance of the Australian Labour
Federation, and live wharf labourers, who arc
not connected with the Federation, promised
to assist, as also did the Queensland Sea-
men’s Union. Delegates from these bodies,
representing a formidable labour power, met
together and decided upon the next step,
which was to warn the British and India
Steamship Company against carrying to
market the Jondaryau wool, on pain of the
probability of their being involved iu serious
labour disputes not only in Australia but
in England. The company’s reply was con-
sidered evasive, and they were called upon
to definitely abandon evasion and state ex-
plicitly by a given date whether or no they
would pledge themselves not to carry as
freight wool shorn at non-union sheds.
Ultimately it was decided that a conference
of representatives of all parties con-
cerned should meet and discuss the matter
fully. It is generally thought that an ami-
cable settlement will be arrived at, but the
labour party are evidently determined to
fight vigorously in case it is not. Mr.
Crawford, a representative of the Federa-
tion, told a Sydney interviewer that the
Shearers’ Union was prepared to supply a
mounted force of 5000 men to patrol the
borders of Queensland and keep out non-
union labour, if the worst should ultimately
happen. This sounds like a large order, but
the compactly-organised Shearers’ Union has
a large and determined army of members
from which to draw scouts.
* # *
While The Bulletin entirely sympathises
with the unionists iu their effort to prevent
wages from going below the present Pumsoll
mark—while it applauds the organisation
which enables men to demand, instead of
beseeching, something like reasonable pay-
ment for their services—there are some
things in connection with this movement
which cannot but be deplored. One of these,
and the principal, is the issue of wildly-
written manifestoes by the Australian Feder-
ation which cannot fail to bring ridicule upon
an organisation whose object is of the highest,
and which should be so conducted as to com-
mand respect as well as success. The official
utterances of such a body as the Federation
should be calm, temperate, and logical. The
only enduring way to effect reforms is by
setting forth clearly what is the nature of the
change desired and how it may best be
accomplished. It is only because of the
force with which it appeals to reason and
judgment that any movement should succeed.
Yet here is a slab from one of the manifes-
toes of the Australian Labour Federation :> —
The principle we fight for will, if won, save our children
from the degradation that covers other lands, and creeps
already on our Australia. It is the golden key to the
rights of labour. It is the key that workers have lost for
long ages and which, having found again, they should
guard as dearer far than life. Fellow-unionists, our
cause is a sacred one ; it is holy ; it is the hand-grip of
organised toilers standing in one solid mass between
I>i - others whom they have never seen and tyranny which
they have felt and know to he unclean ; and because it is
so sacred and so holy, because it is an inspiration of the
Humanity within us and the voice of the Unknown God
who speaks by the voice of the people, we call upon you
to act like nieu who have faith awl hope, not like brute
beasts, who only despair. We seek no combat, but if
combat is forced upon us, we beg of you, as men to men,
to cast no stain upon the sacred cause of labour. You
will light for the weak against the strong, for the little
ones not yet born against the tyranny that tills the world
with weal and woe and shame.
And here is another ;
Those who fight will he fed by those who do not fight
Through a throbbing continent funds and friends a-e to
he found, and if the worst come to the worst, then tighten
your belts and tight on still quietly, still orderly, still
soberly. Remember that we fight for laws against the
lawless, that we fight with the day of justice dawning
before our eyes, with the current of human events sweep-
ing us on.
# * #
This is the sort of thing that makes the
average white man’s gorge rise, and induces
the thought that the literary department of
the Federation is controlled by “ scab ”
workers. It is unalloyed slush. It is simply
rant, without a gleam of coherence or argu-
ment showing through its turgid depths.
The “ Unknown God ” who inspired such
stuff has very little sense, and does not un-
derstand the English language. There is no
such thing as a “throbbing continent” out
here, and those who fight will only be fed
by those who do not fight on condition that
they know what their own interest in the
combat amounts to. Disordered appeals to
“ unknown gods” and flatulent outbursts
of rabid claptrap generally are not going
to advance a cause which is based upon solid
principles of right and equity. The Aus-
tralian Labour Federation should he sternly
censured by the well-wishers of labour
organisation for permitting such silly and
injurious things as wo have quoted to be
uttered under its sanction. These manifes-
toes read very differently from the clear
and common-sense statements of their case
made by the leaders of the London dockers’
strike, which elicited such a memorable
response from Australians. The Queens-
land workers will have every true man’s
sympathy and assistance if they show, as
they can readily do, that they have
a grievance ’which needs remedy. But
mere chaotic outpourings of feeling such
as we refer to, however laudable the
feeling or imperative the cause of it,
will not accomplish anything beyond the
discrediting of those who really deserve
thanks and praise for what they are trying
to do. All that needs to be said is that
capital and monopoly are seeking to place
labour at a further disadvantage iu order to
increase their own power and gains, and
whatever Australians can do to prevent
t hem will bedone. There is no need to become
hysterical or lapse into semi lunacy over it.
The Poor Heathen.
That shapeless and unfixable thing generally
alluded to as the “ native ” has served for so many
years as a rallying point for the pious enthusiasm
of the Anglo-Saxon race that it will be a cause of
genuine sorrow in many quarters to observe that
public interest in him seems to be somewhat on
the wane. The “ native,” it is true, was always a
somewhat hazy and indefinable institution. Very
few seemed to know exactly where he hung out,
though it was unanimously agreed that he Was
somewhat short in the matter of clothing. It was
generally accepted that he resided in warm lati-
tudes, though how he got into them, or what he
did when he was in them, or what reasonable hope
there Was of getting him out of them again was
not Very well defined. It was decided that lie
habitually sat on the shore and read tracts written
in English, and understood them in his own
language, and that he pined for the arrival of a
missionary above all other earthly considerations,
and that the next tiling lie longed after particu-
larly was to be annexed, and have a church built
in Isis immediate vicinity. These cherished
theories Were so deeply rooted that many orthodox
believers, even when the genuine aboriginal rose
before them, refused to recognise him, and still
kept on subscribing for the spread of the Gospel
in the land of that shadowy native who could
never be found—the mild, yearning, brown person
who wanted to hand over his last cocoa-nut to the
good cause, and be at rest. But within the last
few years various wandering iconoclasts have
arisen to denounce tins fanciful native as a
delusion and a myth, and it lias been more than
hinted that the average missionary, having failed
to find the gentle heathen who had pined for the
Scripture, has simply seized upon the heathen of
real life, and tried to make him assume a receptive
frame of mind by the application of personal
violence. Only a few weeks ago, the South
Australian Minister of Education blasphemously
declared his opinion that the orthodox native in
that province Was worse than the heterodox native
of long ago, and hinted that it might be as well
to let the aboriginal have an interval of repose
during which ho might possibly assimilate the
doctrines he had already acquired and get ready
to hold some more at a future date.
The South Australian Churches, however, in-
dignantly repudiate the insinuations levelled
against them, and as they unanimously deny that
there is nothing wrong with their ministrations
tiie probabilities are that they are experimenting
on the wrong kind of heathen and trying to fit an
angular savage into a purely circular doctrine.
The Australian blackfellow, it seems, is an un-
promising subject. “Man,” according to Gil-
bert, “ at best is only a monkey shaved,” but
the blackfellow was not properly shaved at the
beginning of his career ; Nature merely tore some
of the superfluous hair off him, and then turned
him loose in the highway of zoology to take his
chance. The primieval Mongolian explorer, who
visited these, shores in his jffnk, found this patchy
individual waiting in an unfinished state on the
shore, and probably he did his best to confer upon
him the blessings of civilisation, so that the native
might ultimately east the shadow of his huge
shock-head athwart the pages of history and
wriggle insanely in the van of the great army of
progress. He expounded to him, it may be, the
advantages of that narrow path which would ulti-
mately lead him to spend an eternity with Joss
Confucius in a paradise which was an outrage on
perspective, and told him of the glories of a
Flowery Laud above 1 and the native, to judge by
the few remaining signs of that Mongol invasion,
disregarded these teachings, and ate the teacher,
and burned the teacher’s junk, and left a blank
among the works of Buddha— the great first cause
who hangs out on top of his lotus-floWer in the
depths of space.
* # #
Then, the Christian settler followed in the track
of the vanished Mongol, and took stronger mea-
sures for the spread of the Truth. He shot a
great part of the shadowy native, and hanged a
good deal of the rest of him, and crippled or
otherwise damaged what was left, and the scared
remainder of the heathen departed ih a shapeless
cataract of arms and legs and hair into the distant
wilderness, and then the bearer of good tidings
started after him and bade him be of good cheer,
for he had got to bo saved or burst. The amount
of time and money and energy that was spent on
this good work is past computation, and the vigour
of the Christian teacher is a bright spot in Aus-
tralia’s history. He got the aborigine down and
showed him the matter in various new and unex-
pected lights. He fixed him with the hostile ex-
pression of his eye and explained to him about a
burning devil who performed unfathomable gyra
tions with a pitchfork in the trackless jungles of
theology. He followed him with a gun and un-
folded the doctrine of brotherly love, and naturally
enough the untutored savage concluded that the
gun and the communion of the saints were con-
nected in some way, and noted with interest that
the gun had a hole in the end of it and that the
hole seemed to go right through to the other end.
and thus gradually things got mixed up past all
recovery. Then the missionary would tie stray
members of his flock up to trees and fences, and.
reveal to them mysterious facts about people who
fell down dead in Clays gone by, and gradually
under this process the native acquired a few stray
ideas on different subjects and gained great advan-
tage thereby. He began to accept the fact that
somewhere beyond the fixed stars and on the
other side of the planetary system there dwelt a
being of great size who lasted a long time, and
who hit the bad nigger in a way that was awful to
think about; and he had a shadowy dream of a
future state in which he might become au im-
perishable blackfellow and throw an everlasting
spear at a kangaroo which would never pass away.
But somehow he never got beyond this point, and,
as a rule, lie only attained it to die shortly after-
wards. The white man’s theology was too under-
mining for him, and besides the missionary gave
way at times to a demoralising habit of firing bis
information into him with powder which promised
to end in the entire annihilation of the flock.
Everywhere the result has been much the same.
Even among line more peaceful and intelligent
tribes of the South Sea Islands the triumphs of
the faith have merely produced a state of things
iu which rival congregations grasp eaeli other by
the hair on minute points of theology, and pro-
spect for.each other with texts and axes and boil-
ing water and Confessions of Faith, until all is
chaos and general disaster.
# # *
Apparently the European teacher’s theology is
a misfit, and the attempt to crowd the unhappy
“ native ” into a creed which is too light for him
is merely hurrying him on the road to extermina-
tion. Moreover, he is required to hold too many
different kinds of doctrine, and he is apt to burst-
under the pressure. Iu England alone, five or six
years ago, some 233 rival churches were scrambling
for supremacy; several new ones have since been
added, and every one of them wants to annex the
unhappy “native,” generally without any fixed
idea of where he is to be found or what is the best
thing to do with him when he is met with.
America, too, has samples of all these churches
and some thirty or forty more that are exclusively
her own. Some of them exist by having fits during
service, and others have convulsions instead. One
maintained a precarious existence for a time on the
ground that Napoleon I. was still alive, and
broke down at last because it could not decide
what was the best use to put him to. Another
arose because it thought the earth was flat, and
then split into two angry sects because one
division believed the earth to be flatter than the
other. Various other churches exist exclusively
for the purpose of exploring among the forests of
dogma in search of the beast mentioned in Revela-
tions, and every one of these miscellaneous con-
gregations is looking with more or less vigour for
the harassed and badgered heathen with a v iew to
showing him conclusively that it is right and all the
other three hundred are wrong. The unhappy idola-
ter is rapidly being trodden flat by the mad rush of
teachers of all sorts and sizes and descriptions
from all parts of the globe, and, judging from
existing signs, the chances are that, by the time
these assorted apostles have arrived at some com-
mon agreement and are ready to pick up their
victim, and blow the dust off him, and communi-
cate to him even one solid fact that won’t be
contradicted by the next Church that comes along,
the heathen himself will have gone the way the
moa and the Carib went, and will be oxdy a memory
along With the ichthyosaurus and other curiosities
Of the old, dead past.
* #
For these and many other reasons, it might be
advisable to let the unhappy “native” have a
prolonged rest in many countries where he is at
present feeling very tired under the pressure of a
too-aggressive civilisation. The last four centuries
have been a period of feverish activity and excite-
ment, and stupendous efforts have been made in
all quarters of the earth to do something for the
soul of that dark-skinned brother who is alleged
to pine beneath his cocoa-nut palm for want of a
spiritual revelation ; but the results have been so
unsatisfactory that it is evident something is
seriously wrong about the methods employed.
The early Spanish and Portuguese messengers
went forth and judiciously boiled the unbelievers
who came in their way, but possibly they boiled
them too much, for they died out and remained
unconverted to the last. The milder teacher of
the present day uses less violence, but he talks
persistently to his flock, and they wither away
under the influence of his conversation, and
ultimately become extinct. And meanwhile, by
the irony of fate, the so-called heathen is starting
to convert the Christian, and Esoteric Buddhism
promises soon to rank among the fashionable
creeds of the West. This miserably unex-
pected result is the climax of a long series
of disasters, and the enthusiasm concerning
the indefinite tlatiVe is beginning to go slow
in consequence. That deep desire to go out
and do something which, if let alone, would
probably do itself,when the time arrived is one of
the worst features of this era of unrest. The
civilised world has already spent 1890 years in the
effort to fully understand the mysteries of its own
faith, and as the result of these labours it only
partially understands that faith in some 300
different ways, yet whenever it chances to light
upon a stunted, undersized savage musing on ft
lonely shore it seizes Upon him and demands that
he shall Comprehend the whole of it right off, and
draws up elaborate reports from time to time to
show how he is getting on in the attempt. .Some-
times he grows excited under this unwonted pres-
sure, and then a warship comes along and bombards
him in the middle of his perplexities-. Sometimes
he makes a seriqUß effort to master the difficulties
of his heW position, but as a rule something goes
wrong, and he is shot while still engaged among
the rudiments of the faitli which has descended
upon him in, so unlooked-for a fashion. And
under these depressing circumstances it seems
reasonable to suggest that the world should try
tiow the heathen would get on with a little less
active interference —in other words, that, as far as
possible, it should sit down and wait to see what
will happen next. ;
Henry George’s Latest Speech.
Henry George has departed. Both in physical
and mental significance is the phrase exact. The
’Frisco Prophet has abandoned New South Wales,
and he made his formal leave-taking of its people
the occasion for proclaiming his desertion of his
erstwhile devoted and idolatrous followers ahd of
the economic creed to which they had bowed them-
selves down in as abject a mental subjection as
ever a cannibalistic African paid to the paralysing
ugliness of Mumbo-Jumbo. On the night of the
fithinst., Mr, George spoke for the last time in
Sydney, and he signalised the event by a repudia-
tion of the aims, methods and principles of the
local Single-taxers. They had fallen into the
error of supposing that George had meant what
he wrote in “Progress and Poverty”—a Very
natural error, let Us Say—and they accordingly
swore by that book and its author in season and
out of season. To them the book was a veritable
Bible —a sacred Scripture. To them its author
was An Inspired Being—nay, another Messiah, a
second Christ. And now the Being, without the
slightest shade of contrition visible on his counten-
ance, chucks them and their Bible overboard to
drown in a sea of derision. Truly the lot of New
South Wales Single-taxers is hard. Gulled by the
Daily Telegraph, tricked by the Free-trade As-
sociation, flouted by Premier Parkks, and now
repudiated by George himself, their plight would
demand sympathy and compassion were it not
that their now-exploded pretensions had been so
ludicrously inflated. Only a brief two months
before, the “ person”—“ person ” is Parkesian for
a distinguished .Single-taxer—who presided at
George’s farewell meeting, Mr, 0. L. Garland,
M.P., in his annual address to the Single-tax
League, congratulated its members upon
“ the splendidly successful, and supremely
effective efforts made by the talented men
of the League Executive in disseminating the
philosophy of t : e Single-tax upon “the masterly
manner the lea, ne had conducted its great cam-
paign upon “ the fact that the Single-tax party
was the most vigorous political party in New
South Wales;' and upon “its command of the
forces” of disinterested enthusiasm, calmness,
moderation, dignity, and logic. Only two months !
- and, Where is dat barty now? Where are the
other subjects of congratulation ? In the region of
the Gone-Bungs, all. And it is George himself
who has finally sent them there. The Bulletin,
and countless other critics, have been hurrying
them down the slope to the limbo, but the ulti-
mate impulse which propelled them over the verge
came from the Georgian boot.
# * #
No theory eoueerning a proposed social or poli-
tical reform is worth a moment's consideration


from sensible men that is unaccompanied by a
suggestive scheme for its reduction to practice. It
is the idlest nonsense to talk about such-and-such
a plan being good in theory, but bad in practice.
The test of the goodness or badness of any pro-
posal for reform is its capability for use and ad-
justment to the conditions. A tool that won’t
work is-bad, however elegant and finely-finished it
may be itself. The Single-taxers had a dim per-
ception of this truth, and from time to time have
put forth certain notions as to the gradual intro-
duction of the impost. These frequently differed
in detail, but they had one characteristic in
common : they assumed that the incidence of the
tax would ultimately fall upon the accumulated
value of the land, and not merely upon the
increase accruing after a given date—the future
unearned increment. The Single-tax was to be
levied on the whole rental value. To have argued
upon any other basis would have been equivalent
to knocking the Single-tax on the head and to
removing it altogether outside of the sphere of
practical politics. Especially such logical validity
as the Single-taxers could claim for their alliance
wit h the Freetrade party was due to their acceptance
of the position that the appropriation by the State
of the total rental value, less the cost of collection
by the landlords, was the goal of their “ supreme
and splendid ” efforts. Absolute Freetrade, in-
volving the abolition of alb Custom-house taxation
and of all taxation levied in other ways on the
products of labour, was only possible when a
source of revenue was discovered of equal pro-
ductiveness, and this could be found only, accord-
ing to the Single-taxers’ reasoning, in accumulated
laud-values. Nothing less than the total value
could meet the practical condition imposed by the
terms of their hypothesis, for anything less would
fail to yield a revenue commensurate with the
income forfeited by the supersession of the ordi-
nary modes of taxation and with the pecuniary
needs of Government. The very name of the
Single-tax implied all this : otherwise it was a
farcical misnomer.
# # *
According to Henry George, however, his
alleged disciples were absurdly wrong in propos-
ing the absorption of its past and accumulated
value. In that portion of his farewell address
which he devoted to specifically replying to The
Bulletin criticism on his Adelaide speech, he
said -
In our practical proposals we don’t propose to take
from anybody anything that ho already has. We don’t
propose to take "land from the land-owner or unearned
increment from the man who has already got it, but to
tax land values for the future—we will take not the
values of the past, but the values which will accrue in the
future. It will simply put into the public Treasury what
belongs to it, leaving to the individual what belongs to the
individual. Where the unjust ownership of land has en-
abled people to get large properties produced by labour
wj don’t propose to take them for the State. Wo propose
simply to let bygones be bygones, to start fair and as soon
as we can, and in the future to take for the State what
belongs to the community and leave to the individual what
ib longs to him.
If this is the scheme of the New South Wales
Bingle-taxers perfect indeed is the disguise with
which they shrouded it from the public gaze. In
the Australian Standard, the Single-taxers’
■organ, for February, we find the following state-
ments in an article penned by a member of the
■“ talented executive ”
MV have £175,000,000 of taxable (X.S. W. land) value
to replace the loss of revenue from the abolition of all
other taxes. . . . . It must be borne in mind that
Single-taxers propose to make land common property, by
gradually increasing the tax until the whole rental value
rs absorbed.
The author of this a’ticle, which is avowedly an
exposition of the Single tax, as it is headed “A
Practical Chapter,” is W. E. Johnson, and W. E.
Johnson, because of his superior grasp of the
principles of the Single-tax party and the superfine
quality of his organising power, was chosen as the
Secretary t > the “ Henry George Campaign
Committee.” And yet W. E. Johnson, according
to George, didn’t know what Single-taxers pro-
posed. When George, at the conclusion of his
campaign here, asserted that he and his followers
advocated the appropriation by the State of future
value only, he drew the knife across the throat of
his Campaign Secretary and of the Campaign
Committee and thus let out the life from the whole
Single-tax party. That party came into existence
to introduce into our legislative system the pro-
position of “Progress and Poverty ” (book viii.)
to appropriate all rent. Bid future increase in value
is not rent. The unearned increment of the future is
not taxable ; and if the Single-taxers, as Mr. George
asserts, have no intention of confiscating the
values of the past, then Mr. Johnson’s £275,000.000
vanish into the air and the Single-tax and the
Single-tax doctrinaires with them. The moment
George spake the words we quote the Single-tax
organisation of N.S. Wales died, for the reason
of its existence was annihilated, and though its
members may exist as Land Nationalises and
Unearned Incremented, their organism as a dis-
tinct entity, hitherto vital with a definite purpose,
became defunct. And it is their Master and
Founder who dealt them the fatal blow. Et tu,
Brute !
* * *
We have considered the effect of George’s
latest remarks upon the late Georgeites before dis-
cussing their effect upon George himself, because
George has gone, while the corpse of the Single-
taxers remains with vis. But we may not longer
withhold the expression of our opinion that if
Henry George slaughtered his followers he also
committed intellectual suicide. We have re-
marked that the Single-taxers fell into the natural
error of supposing George meant what he wrote
in his famous books. We fell into the same error
ourselves. In this we resembled the Single-taxers,
but we differed from them in declining to accept
George’s views as economically indefeasible. We
have, consequently, been saved from the false
position into which the ’Frisco Prophet drove
himself and his followers when he made the re-
marks above quoted. How miserably false that
position is will be easily perceived by anyone who
will take the trouble to bring our quotation into
contrast with “ Progress and Poverty,” book
vii., chap. iii. “ Why should we hesitate,”
George therein asks, “hi making short work of
such a system (the existing one of land monopoly) ?
Why continue to permit landowners to take the
rent, or compensate them in any manner for the
loss of rent ?” Not a word here as to taxing the
future increment only; he is for dealing decisively
and exhaustively with the accumulations of the
past and the rental value of the present. Nor is
this all—worse, indeed, remains behind. He fol-
lowed up the passage which we have quoted from
his address, by virtually intimating that he had
fallen into line with John Stuart Mill, whose
plan for nationalising the future unearned increase
in the value of land by fixing the present market
value of all lands and appropriating to the State
future increase in value, The Bulletin, in its
issue of March 22, urged Henry George to recon-
sider. George now sees what The Bulletin has
remarked all along—that Mill’s idea is the one
practicable, feasible, scheme possible to Australian
communities. But in his book he denounces it as
inefficient and impracticable, and as possessing
e sential defects. It is conceivable that The
Bulletin’s representations have had some weight
with Mr. George, but, if so, we are not proud of
a convert who at the moment when he perpetrates
a volte-face with respect to a former belief, insists
that he has believed in and preached the newly-
adopted doctrine all the time. Of course an
assertion of this kind amounts to a charge of dis-
ingenuousness, and it is with pain and reluctance
that this journal, which has done more to give
George an honourable Australian reputation than
all other colonial papers put together, levels an
allegation of the kind at the man of whose sin-
cerity and ability it has been ever an ardent
admirer, though it could not accept his economics
without important modifications. The economic
press of the United States for months past has
teemed with similar charges against George.
The Bulletin suspended judgment on these in-
dictments against his mental candour. With the
local evidence now before it, it has no course
before it but to consider George self-deposed from
the pedestal of a philosophic reasoner to the
stump of a political special pleader.
* * *
The Bulletin cordially welcomed George,
though it demurred to the tactical blunder
of which he and his partisans were guilty
in enrolling themselves as greasers to the
wheels of the Freetrade machine. It bids
him good-bye with regret. But let us not be mis-
understood. The feeling with which we part
from the author of “ Progress and Poverty ” has
nothing in common with the sorrow that men feel
when they bid farewell to an honoured guest.
Our regrets are of a different sort —they are of the
description that rise spontaneously in the mind
when a spotless reputation is besmirched or when
an eminent personality grovels in the mud. A
fortnight ago we declined to believe that George,
in materially qualifying by his Adelaide speech
his published notions as to the confiscatory aspect
of his theory, had joined the corps of jugglers
and dodgers with principle. His last Sydney
utterance compelled a change in our opinion. We
are still believers in his logical force —but his skill
in dialectic savours more of the Advocatus Diaboli
than of the patient, truth-seeking, scientific in-
quirer. We still admire his brilliant literary style
—but it renders his ability “ to make the worse
appear the better reason,” the more dangerous.
# # *
George landed in New South Wales with the
fame of a great thinker. He leaves it with a
repute differing only in degree and not in kind
from the discredit that attaches to the pettifogging
attorney, the pliant politician, and the mercenary
clergyman who worships the Almighty dollar
more fervently than the Almighty, He might
have left it honoured as no man ever left its shores
had he risen to the height of the great opportunity
that lay ready to his hand. The very essence of
success as a scientific investigator is the capacity
to receive new light. This he lacked. These
colonies presented to him new conditions and new
data. Were these allowed to modify his precon-
ceived theory ? No ; not till the last moment—
when the evil had been done. Had he declared
for the Mill doctrine at first, he would have
brought Land-Nationalisation within a measure-
able distance. As it is, he has identified it in the
popular mind with robbery—with the confiscation
of the fruits of honest toil as well as of the illegiti-
mate gains of the land-boomer and the speculative
monopolist; and a generation may not suffice to
undo-the mischief. This thing George has done,
and it is the principal result of his mission. There
is small compensation for it in the other result
that he has effectually smashed the Single-taxers
by demonstrating that they have nothing to tax.
The Morality of the Single-Tax.
The Single-taxers have lately developed a keen
anxiety lest they should be suspected of advocating
the principle of confiscation or repudiation. As a
leader in The Bulletin a fortnight ago pointed
out, no student of the Georgian writings can come
to any conclusion, other than that, prior to his
arrival here, Henry George plainly advocated
confiscation. There is, however, nothing very
dreadful in this. Repudiation, confiscation—call
it by what name you choose —though sometimes a
grievous sin, is also at times a high moral action.
There is no need to discuss with our readers the
occasions when repudiation is an evil —these are
obvious enough. As to the converse position—
that repudiation is sometimes a virtue, we have
several modern instances.
* * *
When Arabi, the Egyptian, raised the standard
of Nationalism, it is well understood that he
purposed repudiating the public debt of the
country. To save the money of the bond-
holders and speculators, the British suffocated
the aspirations of the Egyptians, and bombarded
Alexandria. It is true that a certain small portion
of the debt of Egypt was raised for public pur-
poses, but the larger part was, with the knowledge
of the lenders, contracted by the Khedives to
administer to the caprices of themselves and their
courtezans, and for the equipment of soldiery for
the enslavement of the unfortunate people, who
are now burdened witli the interest. Arabi was
not far out in his estimate of the virtue of repu-
diation. A few years ago the New South Wales
Parliament solemnly pledged the country to pay
for ten years a tribute to the British Government
for the maintenance of a fleet for the protection of
British trade. The people will carefully repudiate
the transaction at the first opportunity. The
irresponsible rulers of West Australia have
assigned for insignificant sums vast tracts of
country. These lands have been acquired chiefly
by, or in the interests of, English capitalists, and
will become of enormous value with an expansion
of population. The question will presently arise
whether the acts of irresponsible officials are bind-
ing on the country, should the community require
the land now given away. The answer to this
will be by no means uncertain.
# * *
But, after all, such discussions are futile. There
is a story told of Charles 11., of blessed memory,
that being in a merry humour, he desired the
sages of the Royal Society to consider how it was
that the placing of a live fish in an already fully
water-filled vessel would not result in a displace-
ment of the watery element. The learned pundits
gravely and lengthily discussed the question from
a theoretical point pf view, until the fruitlessness
of argument was shown by the production of a
live fish and a full vessel and an overflowing of
the water consequent on the thrusting of the fish
into the water. The application of this parable
to the Single-taxers is obvious. If their plan will
not work out in practice, it is useless discussing its
theoretic beauties.
# * *
S >me few months ago we pointed out in these
columns that the Jungle-taxers had tailed 10
localise their theories —that it was useless discus-
sing the thing in the abstract, unless it could be
shown that the actual circumstances of the country
admitted of its application. The article served a
useful purpose, as a discussion immediately took
place in the daily papers on this and other points
raised by us. From the discussion we learnt: —
(a) That the Single-taxers do not wish to con-
fiscate rent.
(b) That the purchase-money paid to the State
as well as the cost of all improvements, will be
deducted to ascertain the taxable value of the
land.
(c) That when the rule of the Single- taxers pre-
vails the Customs dues on liquors will not be re-
tained.
This creed is definite, and, taking it for a
basis, it is worth while enquiring what is the
capacity of New South Wales to yield revenue
from unimproved values if all other taxation be
abolished ? First, as to the revenue to be
obtained. By remitting all taxation except on
land-values and stopping the sales of land the
revenue given up would be about £4,000,000
sterling—
Taxation .. .. .. £2,082,000
Land sales .. .. .. 1,212,000
Fees, &c 145,000
£4,039,000
# # #
Single-taxers fix the unimproved value of land
in private hands at 17b millions. From this sum
has to be made certain deductions, viz., payments
to the State on account of purchase of land 28
millions, balances of conditional purchases due to
the State 13 millions—in all, 41 millions. In the
total value of 175 millions are included the clear-
ing, draining and other improvements not in the
nature of erections. To estimate the value of such
improvements would, of course, be now impossible,
but perhaps we may be permitted to assume that,
on the 42 million acres sold, there has been clearing
and improvements of a like nature to the value of
20 millions. This, with the 41 millions stated
above, gives a total of 61 millions to be deducted
from the total of 175 millions, leaving the taxable
value 114 millions. Estimating the rental at
5 per cent., there will be an income of £5,700,000
derived from land eligible for taxation. We have
seen that the income required by the State from
the single-tax would be about four millions, or
70 per cent, of the taxable income.
# #
The present taxes levied by municipalities
amount to about 85 per cent, of the rental value of
land and buildings ; if this tax were to fall on
lands alone, it would bo about 20 per cent, of the
annual value. The system of local government
will probably be extended throughout New South
Wales before the millennium of the Single-tax;
we may therefore assume that the municipal-tax
of 20 per cent, will be in operation when the State
adopts the system, and the landholder will have
to pay this in addition to the 70 percent, taken by
the State. For local and general taxation 90 per
cent, of the rental value of unimproved lands will
thus be hypothecated, leaving for the landowner
10 per cent. This may be meet and proper, but it
looks very like confiscation.
HENRY SIEBEL.
The addleheadedness of Premier Parkes was
never better exemplified than when he made his
condemnatory reference to the “ blunder ' of the
drafters of the American Constitution in adhering
too closely to British precedent, inasmuch as in
the very next breath he pi’oceeded to advo-
cate as the most desirable form of Austra-
lian Federal Government a Privy Council on
the British model, and a double-barrelled Legis-
lature also on the British model. If the
framers of the United States Constitution —“ that
most consummate act of statemanship," as Glad-
stone terms it—erred, it was in their attempt to
assimilate their novel institutions to the essential
spirit of their British prototype. They disre-
garded the form. Parkes, on the other hand,
manifesting once again his incapacity to perform a
solitary deed of constructive statecraft, simply and
slavishly copies the form and the letter and ignores
the spirit. When in the future some misguided
enthusiast establishes on the site of the N.S.W.
National Deadhouse a museum for the multifarious
varieties of colonial and imported cheek, the most
conspicuous specimen in thecrowded Parkes section
should be this political Podsnap’s criticism of the
American patriots of 1787. The American Con-
stitution, faulty though it may be, has stood the
shocks of a fateful century. Parkes’ scheme, as
at present disclosed, is already riddled. He has
patched it up since he first revealed it, and it will
need re-patching till it is in the condition of
Paddy Hooligan’s coat, in which the only
portion of the original garment retained was the
arm-holes.
“ Ecce Homo,” a pamphlet in which Mr. P. .1.
Gandon, a person of Imperialistic proclivities,
endeavours to bring together “ the various objec-
tions to Henry George’s views urged by the
ablest of his opponents ” is before us. The writer’s
ability to deal with the subject may be gauged
from the fact that he asserts that George’s
“ rooted and republican prejudice against what he
(George) calls ‘ trumpery titles ’ is not worthy of
him, since the titles of at least the British nobility
and aristocracy represent not only theoretically,
but in the majority of cases actually the honour
which the people pay through their accre-
dited head to talents, bravery, worth, or
valued service.” Greater nonsense than this
was never penned —■ its untruthfulness need
scarcely be pointed out. The Bulletin, however,
would like to know how many among the aris-
tocracy selected by Mr. Gandon as being especially
entitled to honour have earned their titles through
the possession of “ talents, bravery, or worth,” or
by “ valued services ” We think there are hardly
a dozen British peers who have personally earned
anything by the display of any good quality or
in the performance of any public duty. As for
those who have inherited titles, which were
bestowed on their ancestors, not by the people, but
by “their accredited heads,” for the purposes of
the said heads, inmost cases vile, what of them?
As a rule, it can be only said that the present
holders of titles are by no means digraced by their
relationship to the courtesans and “favourites”
from whose loins they spring and who were
ennobled because their “ valued services ” pleased
the filthy palates of some jaded voluptuary. After
this we may safely leave the remainder of the
writer’s arguments to be dealt with by the Single-
taxers. Those who would learn the shameful
story of the genesis of the British nobility can do
so for a shilling—the price of Howard Evans’
book, “ Our Old Nobility.”
♦
A late number of the Universal Review con
tains a lengthy descriptive review of Tolstoi’s
latest work, the “ Kreutzer Sonata,” a tale of
married unhappiness and its causes, not yet pub-
lished in Russian owing to Press censorship and
now being translated into English from the talented
and eccentric author’s manuscript by Miss Hap-
good. The hero, a “psychopath,” throws a
libertine in his wife’s way who is musical, watches
them during the playing of Beethoven's lovely
sonata, then leaves home and, returning to find
them together, kills his wife, and is acquitted.
The plain speaking of the book will cause a great
sensation in prudish British homes. For instance,
the author points out that a union brought about
merely by physical qualifications, and their taste-
and-try-before-you-buy revelation in low-necked
dresses or short skirts, cannot fail to be unhappy;
The “lust of the eye” is unquestionably a most
unstable foundation for the temple to Juno, and a
similarity of tastes and intellectual interests the
only one calculated to bear an edifice that will
stand the test of time
“ An Officer’s Wife ” writes to the press concern-
ing the hom-s during which the officers of the
Australian intercolonial boats labour :
Witness the hours of continuous labour in port, Cargo
is being constantly taken in there, and what chance has
this much-worked man of getting to his home ? Perhaps
the vessel arrives at 1 o’clock in the morning at the
wharf, it is fully 2 a.m. before he can leave the steamer,
worn out with calls on every hand— 3, most probably,
before he reaches home, and another hour will have
nearly gone before his wet clothes are off and he can lie
down for a snatch of sleep. He must be up again at half-
past otobe on hoard by “turn-to” time. So he has
had two hours and a-half for rest. Back he goes to the
cargo, with no further chance of seeing his home, and
after another 14 or 15 hours on deck, away to sea and his
watch on deck. Little the passengers sleeping below
dream that their very lives are in the keeping of this
underpaid, overworked official, whom everything tends
to overpower with sleep before he leaves. And for all
this what is his pay? If second officer, at £1 monthly,
perhaps, more than the sailor ; and if chief, £4 more, and
this pay is for constant attendance. He has no time for
home at all. Other men in almost any branch of
life have a little while to see their families; these
men literally none. On deck they must he looking
after cargo. When the engine-room fires are out,
engineers can leave, yet their pay is far higher than
the deck-officer who remains at work all day. And they
must be men who hold certificates for their seamanship,
too. Many of them have been captains, and so passed all
the grades of efficiency to the highest, and they are taken
in by the companies and worked like omnibus-horses. It
is a mere question of time when a worn-out officer falls
out of his working life. What is done for them then ?
Nothing. I could write more. I could tell you of the bad
effect on his moral life this want of all home influence
tends to. I could speak of the want of interest in wife
and children it naturally engenders.
The remedy ? It lies with the labour unions.
Premier Parkes’ speech, in moving the Conven-
tion resolutions in the New South Wales Assembly,
demonstrated the chaotic shapelessness of his con-
ception of Federation responsibilities. The soli-
tary illustration —that of the Broken Hill lunatic
—which he furnished of the way in which the
Federal Executive would work, was ludicrously
absurd. According to Premier Parkes, the
Federal Government would assume control of the
crazed person and place him in an asylum
at Adelaide, while under the present colonial
system the bereft wretch would be com-
pelled to make the journey to Sydney. This
illustration, if it has any cogency at all,
means that the care of lunatics, the charge of
criminals, and the regulation of police, will be
handed over to the Federal Government, and when
these purely executive functions are transferred,
others must necessarily follow till finally the pro-
vincial governments and legislatures will be bored
like the unemployed, and “ have no work to
do-o.” If this is the sort of thing that Parkes
means by Federation, the people of the colonies
had better understand clearly that federation on
Parkes’ lines involves the suppression of their
individual Parliaments and the institution of a
centralised autocracy. From one standpoint it
wouldn’t matter very much if they were annihi-
lated, but it is just as well colonists should know
how it is proposed to affect their institutions.
And, with particular respect to lunatic-asylums,
it should be said that each of the American
States and Canadian provinces supports its own
public asylum from provincial funds. Parkes
should stick to vague bombast and bogus genera-
lisations. When he tries to elucidate detail he
slops over.
■ ♦ ;
Again has the futile agitation against the Vic-
torian Education Act been revived, the Presby-
terian Assembly rushing once more into the
breach last week, led by Dr. Harper, with a long
string of propositions, wherein the falsehoods
began in the very first, to the effect that there was
no intention to revive denominationalisrn. Higin-
botham offered the only possible compromise by
his Education Bill twenty years ago, and when the
pestiferous sects overthrew that, nought remained
but the purely secular. The foolish idea of Harper
and Co. now is to introduce the thin end of the
wedge by making the ordinary school-teachers
read the Bible to their classes. It is to work
like a Mumbo-Jumbo fetich, notwithstanding that
two-thirds of the teachers don’t believe in it.
The solemn fact of the matter is simply this ; the
Victorian sects combined to pass the Education
Act with a view, as Minister Stephen bluntly but
unguardedly put it, of dealing a death-blow at
R.C.-dom. They now find that they have con-
solidated the Pope’s influence, and have helped to
wipe out their own religion—a clear and beautiful
illustration of the folly of cutting off your nose to
spite your face. The Pope and Co. have a policy
and adhere to it day and night, in shade and
shine ; the educational policy of the other set has
up to now merely been to hate the Roman
Catholics, and, because of that hate, to lend all
possible aid to the blotting out of even the name
of God from the State-school books. The
Agnostic looks on and laughs. If the whole of
the sects could agree, the world would be in chains
for another hundred years.
+.
The newspapers characterise as “liberal” the
judgment of the New South Wales Full Court in
regard to the case of M‘Laughlin v. the Even-
ing News, and almost every writer who has com-
mented on the question has said something or
other about the “ privileges ”of the Press. As a
matter of fact, the Press legally has, and ought to
have, no special privileges whatsoever. In 9l>
cases out of a hundred the Press is a purely com-
mercial concern, and in proof of this you have only
to be behind the scenes for a week or two. The
Press, we repeat, has no special rights, and should
have none, because anybody with a pound or two
can set up a press and call himself “ we.’' But
then, it may be urged, all papers are not alike—
look at the fine, old, dignified, stately, repectable
Tory daily papers, like the Times and the
Argus and the S.M. Herald ! Well, look at the
them —what are they ? Simply the organs of a set
of people more or less ignorant and purse-proud
and pompous, who have managed to conserve a
commercial monopoly which came by inheritance
into their hands. The fact of the matter is that
all the Press can claim is what every citizen down
to the lowest bummer on the side-walk should be
able to claim —the right of free thought and of
free speech right up to the line of a fair libel law.
When the press is arrogant enough to talk about
its “privileges,” meaning thereby something
which is not possessed by .1. Smith, the barber's
deputy, or T. Jones, the humble person who
comes at night to remove dead cows from your
promises for a trilling fee, it is preparing an
engine for its own destruction at the hands of a
people who wish no more to hi press ridden than
they do to be priest-ridden.


[?]
816 Macquarie-street North, Sydney, May 14, 1890.
Mv Dear Moorabixda,—
It speaks libraries for Mrs. Potter’s artistic success that
in “ Camille” (the dilettante pronounce it Kaui-ee),
one oftimes quite neglected “ Worth of Paris,” and saw
only the poor, weak-chested badgered Delilah whose sub*
lime devotion to her “Almond” (as a man behind had
conceived him) portrays a noble feminine attribute su.*
prisingly general—behind the footlights. Between
throbs, however, your Sappho comprehended that the
drapery was very dazzling, especially the gown worn in
the second act, which all the women in front must have
envied till their consciences pricked them. But, to do
things in order, let me commence with Frock first, which
came with a shock to people with fixed “ you may trim
yellow with black ” ideas and who vote an artist “ scenic”
if he robes a red-haired girl in sage-gseen. The gown was
in sunflower-yellow satin en Princesse, with thick ruche
round the hem of yellow ostrich feathers, classic over-
dress, caught on the shoulder and again at the waist, in
dragon-green jetted Russian-net with a deep border
design in jet ; the full sleeves to the elbow and folds
about the corsage of yellow silk gauze ; Roman net of
green jet, pink camellias (of course) and spray of stage-
diamonds in the hair, yellow shoes, a gorgeous peacock-
feather, and diamond girdle forming the necessary
etceteras, Tnis was bright and daring and pleasing on
the whole, but the second gown was a cut-bias eye-opener
for local fashion which considers itself en grande toilette
when it s gotten up in cot ton-back satin and a pearl bead.
Poetically it suggested a pale-grey sky dashed with
the pink and silver of sunset, and it seemed almost
desecration to appraise such a vision in the jargon of
the warehouse, to detail that the jupe was in faint
amaranth pink satin, draped with* white Mechlin lace
sprinkled with silver, the corsage also of the pink, cut
square and edged frontally with a deep lace frill, with
Zouave in pale-grey satin figured in large floral design in
paler grey, which material was repeated in the one-breadth
snakey train coming from the left shoulder, where it was
pleated d la Medici with touches of pink, and caught
bunchily at the waist with another suggestion of the
contrast, the Directoire skirt panels in plain pale grey
with three wide borderings in glistening silver, while the
sleeves, reaching with the lace frill almost to the finger-
tips, were in figured grey satin with puffed shoulders and
a jetted lattice which covered the entire arm. The crown-
less hat was in drawn gauze with pink plumes. The cottage
gown was simple, of course (Kam-ee has shunted diamonds
for devotion), but, then, the hang was heavenly. It was
in lilac cashmere the overskirt, bordered round the feet
and up the batik with creamy wide lace laid on flat, worn
over a silk underskirt. The bodice, fastening up the
back, draped d la Zouave, with cream piece lace loosely
gathered in the front ; the sleeves—full and ridged, with
underpart which dodgily became upper part at the wrist
—of cream lace ; long spring-green sash and a rustic
“shape.” The next gown—the Mte costume—was rather
meretricious in motive; the train was in eau-de-nil silk,
with jupe shrouded in vivid cabbage-green gauze edges
at the feet, with silver bullion and a deep design in silver,
while down the side fall white camellia buds and leaves.
The bodice was looped across with strings of pearls, the
hanging shoulder-wings were in myriad glistening silver
strands, while show-paste radiated everywhere and the
floats looked dim and sickly. By the way, the Potterian
mode of making-up the eyes is strongly reminiscent of
Our Nellie.
Probably to scare the silver-fish out of Mrs. Potter's
Pauline wardrobe the “ Lady of Lyons” was sumptuously
staged at Sydney Royal, on 10th inst., since beyond the
dazzle of divine drapery nothing much remains to be
mentioned. In the second act, where she first makes en-
trance, Mrs. Potter wears an Empire gown (as usual), the
front of cream-satin draped in spangled gauze with a
whirl of silver round the feet; the long train, in emerald
green velvet with edge pattern in large silver leaves
coming from between the shoulder-blades and appearing
under the arm also ; a narrow hand of green velvet accen-
tuating the high waist and two narrow hands coming
brace-like over the shoulders. The sleeves (in cream)
were puffed and slashed with silver at the top and were
fulled to below the elbow with a line of silver down the
inside seam which was indescribably effective during the
hugging intervals ; two bows of cream ribbon edged with
silver fringe on the right side of the train, which had an
under trainlet of cream-satin so that the Potterian ankles
should remain undiscovered, no matter how frantic the
stage directions became. The neck was cut round and
edged with soft fulled cream-tulle, two windmill ridges of
wired white lace standing up on either shoulder ; finishing
touches being white silk mittens, a big bouquet, a
diamond parure, and green velvet slippers. In act three
the costume is a gull-grey poplin with deep kilting in grey
round the feet and cable design in brown fur above it,
made all in one (Mrs. P. never affects a jacket bodice), but
dodgily designed above the waist to simulate a sort of
Figaro jacket in grey heliotrope velvet with the points
turned back in front, and lined with grey over folds of
the poplin ; the hack draperies pleated high on the waist
and topped with th j velvet, of which material the long,
ridged sleeves arc made—with a line of grey down the
inside seam. An effective relief to the Noah's Ark
plainness of tb Princesse front was the outlining of the
gore seams in a narrow, brown line. The neck was cut
square and filled in with white muslin, with collar of real
lace, a brown fur boa and an Empire bonnet in brow n and
grey being worn at first. Mrs. Potter also wore grey
satin shoes and a turquoise and diamond brooch. In act
fourthe gowning is t lie same, of course (Pauline, to all
appearances, being one of those rare brides who embark
on a honeymoon with no other impedimenta than a hand-
bag), but in the last act Mrs. Potter being in mauve satin
draped in black gauze designed on the upper part in three
yertioftl lines of large silver stars, below them two
•wide scallops of black jet, below that again an in-
tricate bordering of silver stars and black jet—the waist
'defined by a girdle of silver and black. The overdress,
'with long, fulled sleeves and voluminous train, in black
[Velvet with large brocade pattern in black silk. Mauve
Shoes, the presence of two crimson roses in the hair light-
ing up the gown, perhaps, but mitigating the “sorrow” of
it. At the end of the 4th act Mrs. Potter was the recipient
Of much green-grocery—one lot taking the form of a large
floral ship in full rig, which would have been very nice if
only it hadn’t looked as though intended to convey a
large, cruel hint to the willowy artiste.
To Hatter the amour propre of Sydney society your
Sappho boldly asserts that the rain alone was responsible
for the gorgeous total of (comparatively) three men and a
boy under V.R. patronage who formed the audience at
Miss Menk-Meyer’s first recital at Sydney Y.M.C.A. on 6th
inst. A mere handful of humanity turned up attired in
straying back-hair and wool clouds alternating with last
season’s hats and wet umbrellas. Miss Menk-Meyer—who
is slight and very girlish, so much so that in Paris admir-
ing hearers contracted the habit of sending her balls and
toys to amuse herself with—played with marvellous
facility several classic “ morso ” of the most howling
school at which the cognoscenti present turned up their
eyes like ducks in wet weather and tried to look like a
cat does when you stroke down towards her tail. Setting
technique aside, it was only natural the pianiste should
be at her sympathetic best in her own compositions, the
prettiest of those performed being, in my opinion, the
“Berceuse” (by the way, somebody once objected to Miss
Menk-Meyer that the only fault to be found with this was
that it was “too sleepy” I) and the “Danse Phan-
tome,” a weird thing with a rattle of dead bones
in it, which occurs in her opera, “ Herman Doro-
thea.” Lord and Lady Carington, who arrived at
half-time, apparently enjoyed the performance to a
degree, her ladyship, after it was over, sending Miss
Menk-Meyer congratulatory messages per Charlie Huener-
bein. As to the tracking—the vice-regal garment was in
mauve-pink striped silk with semi-Medici collar and front
of white lace—Watteau fan with mother-o’-pearl sticks
and a mauve-pink bow and aigrette held by a diamond
cluster in the hair-cream satin and lace-oaped opera-
cloak. By the way, Lady Carington’s habit of carrying
her train in her hand up and down all passages, aisles,
etc., shows how her gathers have suffered at the large,
wide feet of the Government House attache, doesn’t it ?
Miss Menk-Meyer wore a Worth-built confection. The
Directoire bodice cut square and very low in front, was in
cream striped satin falling on to the skirt in three long
panels, the centre one simulating a sash, over a cream
tulle skirt with front composed of tiny frills to the waist
—front of the bodice in plain satin, butterfly shoulder-
bows in white ribbons, and a few of those naughty-looking
diamonds studded on the corsage. Although the audience
was small it was enthusiastic, Miss Menk-Meyer being-
recalled several times, and receiving a bouquet and a
basket of flowers across the floats, while several admirers
sent vegetables behind in a strange desire to do “dark”
homage, seemingly.
On the afternoon following her first recital, Miss Menk-
Meyer, who is morally -sustained on tour by her elder
sister, held a reception at the Grosvenor which was well
attendee!, though, owing to a reporter’s mistake, several
called the previous day and were unable to see the object
of their visit. In private, Miss Menk-Meyer is an un-
affected girlish girl—a necessary distinction in a genera-
tion of sour-mannered damsels with strong opinions on
the suffrage question. She wore a cream gown edged
with silvered galon and held at the waist by a gold and
silver tinsel girdle, and talked with a simplicity which was
like water to a thirsty soul tired of the verbal posings of
the average prodigy. After the Sydney season she pro-
poses an American tour, and after that to Vienna to see
her opera produced. “It can only meet the same fate as
‘ Don Giovanni,’ ” she said quietly—" it can only be hissed
from one end of Europe to the other.”
The second Menk-Meyer'recital on Bth instant was, of
course, carefully shunned by local culchaw which really
cannot screw itself up to classical point unless harnessed
on to a subscription-list, when it attends like clockwork
to get its money’s worth. But that the two or three
which gathered together had brought their souls along
was evidenced by one fair damsel, who, as Miss Menk-
Meyer evolved the solemn largo movement from the
“Sonata Pathetique,” dropped a damp tributory tear
which I was glad to see didn’t bring away any bloom of
beauty with it. I was going to bottle that moisture and
send it to the artiste, only I reflected that she probably
had a cellar-full already. By the way, people were sur-
prised to see that the bill comprised selections from ten
composers, after the preliminary announcement that each
evening would be devoted to one at a time. In this the
pianiste yielded to the local tipsters, who advised a more
“varied programme.” Why, certainly, but they should
have squeezed in a comic song or a pas de quatre since it’s
so easy to “knock ’em,” as the slangy actor declares.
Put a girl in tights that quite “shock” them, and you’ll
want S.R.O. on the stairs.
The Caringtonian “ At Home ” on Bth inst. was more
generally dedicated to the canvas-backed ducks of local
society than is commonly the case on these occasions,
though I have remarked that unfashionable vulgarity is
always more timid of attending an “At Home” than a
“reception,” which, to their intelligence, has a wider and,
if I may coin a word, mob-ier significance. ’Twas a
bewchus day—the weather ever comes to vice-regal
aid—and your Sappho spied one or two satisfactory gown-
ings. Lady Carington appeared in grey woollen polonaise
cut out round the waist in turrets with guipure braid
which outlined the straight skirt side-panels worn over a
jupe of fawnish velvet; folded front, with frill of rose-pink
chiffon ; grey straw bonnet trimmed with pink roses, grey
velvet, and fawn wings ; spotted tulle veil, with gloves ;
the three little Caringtons wore terra-cotta ulsters
and cloth-gathered hats in the same shade. Mrs.
Burdekin, fawn woollen, with a tiny brown flower draped
over a jupe of seal-brown velvet, ridged sleeves of the
velvet and braidings of fawn guipure, small brown bonnet
with pointy wings and autumn leaves. Miss Florence
Menk-Meyer (to whom Lord and Lady Carington were
especially attentive) came with her brother, Dr. Felix
Meyer, and wore a cream skirt, with Russian cap and cape
of beautiful black fur. Mrs. Carruthers was charming in
pale-grey tweed with deep band of grey fur round the
skirt, fur outlining the bodice, and a wide white felt hat
with ostrich feathers. Then a statuesque, lovely woman
wore a mingling of deep brown and chamois leather, with
a brown feather in her bonnet. An excited damsel car-
ried a piece of cake around as if it were a card-case; and
brother Rupert was vivid in a tartan T»m Thumb tic.
The third day of the Lawn Tennis Tournament (10th
inst.) drew a crowd of the very nicest people to Sydney
Association Ground to w itness the battle for the Cooper
Champion Cup, which is a big, honest-looking tankard
large enough to asphyxiate a pup in, and the other
splendid trophies, ranging down to a silver pencil-case,
which were displayed in a marquee on the lawn. Lord
and Lady Carington, with Lud\ Scott and Captain Del-
bert, rode over during the afternoon ; the vice-regal rig-
out of short block cloth habit, deep white collar, black
hard felt hat, and black net-veil, with white gloves and
hunting crop, appearing far more neat and workmanlike
than Lady Scott's dowdy-looking black skirt, loose fawn
jacket and sailor hat with red-and-blue-band. On the
ground thedressing was very good—most of the frocks but
toning up the back—a very pretty model being in electric-
grey cloth with three capes and capote of souvenir roses ;
another satisfactory gown was a back-fastened chrome-
green, with ridged sleeves of green velvet, green gloves,
and green velvet bonnet with yellow roses. Miss Roberts
wore a charming gown in Assyrian red, trimmed with
satin and velvet-stripped trimming, capote of nasturtium
flowers and shaded velvet leaves, silk parasol en suite.
Miss Garran wore dark-blue serge, with carnation red silk
front and guipure braiding. A taking toilette was in
black and grey lizard-striped silk, with folded front of
white chiffon, Alsatian bow of true red velvet adorned
with black jet on the hair. It was a pity there wasn’t a
band to give a snap to the promenading, which wag
greatly indulged in, for tennis is a very sad spectacle
except to the enthusiasts of the racket. I was glad to see
that the exorbitant admission rate of three-and-sixpence
charged last year has come down to half-a-crown this
time.
The day of the coy “view matrimony” advt., is vir-
tually over, and the home-grown Lotharios are taught
how superfluous is dissimulation through the following
S.M. HuRaLD advt., the gentle directness of which speaks
mutely of old world influences: —
QTRANGRR, with means, wishes to meet young lady,
** aged li). Photos, exchanged. Victor, Herald.
There is nothing like plain English.
Yours affectionately,
SAPPHO SMITH.
CORRESPONDENCE
’■ >S.L. A.”(Bega): You make a tremendous mis-
take. Tiik Bulletin is not an organ of “ the Protectionist
party ” any more than it is an organ of the Freetraders or
the Mormons or the Pope or the Devil. It is merely the
organ of the two parties who run it. It receives no sub-
sidy from anybody, and it is not In the power of any com-
pany or person outside its managers to print a line in it
or to leave a line out. It exists, simply-for the purpose
of enabling its conductors to say exactly what they like
every week K.<». P." Finesse as you may,
the tact remains that a license to sell liipior has hitherto
meant a perpetual license subject to good conduct. Here,
tor instance, is £l2o,huh or so being invested in the build-
ing of the magnificent Australian Hotel at Sydney. Sup-
posing that the liquor license were withdrawn from that
colossal building, would not the withdrawal amount to
confiscating part of th e value of a property
built for a special purpose, and only capable of
returning a dividend if used for that special purpose
“E.G.”; The moon has been pretty full of late
“ J.H.” (Shepparton): Your faculty is worth cultivation.
“Bendigo 1 '; “Moses,’’considered humorously, would make
a better stump-speech than a lay-sermon..., “ A Native
We never cease to do something “in the matter.”....
“Native Bee”: Fairly vyritten, but not in our vein....
“ C.L." : It would be better to support these “arch
book-fiends ” on hominy than to allow the system
to continue that they may obtain luxurious support....
“Truth ” ; Next week, perhaps.... “ H.W.T.”: Will read
“ Ned Halloran ”, . “0.0.” : “Clannishness ”is not con-
fined to Scotchmen. Look, for instance, at how old Dick
Goldsborough gathered the Yorkshiremen around him....
“J.S.D.”: A joke that needs explanation is a ghastly
thing,...“ J.G.C.” (N./,): Have not received it up to
date—LA.H.” (Brisbane): That’s a very old tale, but
it throws no light on the authorship. The mere fact of a
copy of verses being found alongside a dead body by no
means proves that the corpse was a poet. Suppose a
rum-bottle were found alongside a dead man, that might
he prima-facir evidence that deceased liked rum,
but it wouldn’t prove that he made rum
“F.H.” (Melbourne): Venom unredeemed by wit...
“ E.C.M.”: Certainly not. Up to now we see no evidence
against the man “J.A.P.”: An industrious and in-
telligent man should be able to write shorthand moder-
ately well within a year, but to become a reliable verbatim
reporter, much longer would he necessary. Any book-
seller will supply you with Pitman’s series for a few
shillings. (3.) We can’t say, hut presume it is “ Tai
Rawhiti”: Many thanks ...“54”: Yes, he is the same
man, but we don’t know for certain. Will enquire
“Ah Chee”: .lust good enough “Old Transvaal”
The letter cautioning Australians not to go to South
Africa only re-echoes what Tub Bulletin lias said over
and over again .. “ Bulletin Header” (Broken Hill): No,
we don’t know anything about him. You had better
consult some good white medical man. Surely you have
intelligence enough to select a doctor who has long been
trusted by the public “A Passer By” ; Next week
“Tippoo Tib”: Very good idea....“ James Whitelaw”:
We are interested. Pleas? send details “ Frank Clif-
ton”: We think you’re right, hut have somehow got it
into our head that there were two generals named
Radetzky “A.S.L.” (Yarrawonga): Thanks.. ..[Many
answers held over. |
The Widow O’Brien.
John F. Shkiudan, whose counterfeit present-
ment as the Widow O’Brien, his original creation,
will be found in another column, now playing
“ Fun on the Bristol ” at .Sydney Criterion under
the management of the Messrs. MacMahon, has
entered on his eleventh year of association with
that farcical musical comedy which lately ran for
seventy-two nights in Melbourne to tremendous
1 Mr. Sheridan, who has been the Widow
. .1 in all the principal towns of America,
■*—- o .and, Ireland, Scotland, India, Japan, China,
Australia and New Zealand, is now paying his third
visit to Australasia, and, so far, has achieved even
greater success than on previous occasions. It
must be admitted that the performance must be of
Unusual merit in which one man can so long be
identified with a single character.
W lio raised Lazarus from prison ? Dives?
The Tam worth (N.S. W.) Police Magistrate
has decided (hat “a traveller is entitled to tret
drunk on Sunday. "
Olive Schreiner, who has leapt into fame
by her novel of “An African Farm,” is sister of
Miss Schreiner, a lady evangelist, who was over
m Melbourne and Sydney lately, but returned to
South Africa. Olive Schreiner is a prominent
sceptic. Her evangelistic sister lias the finest
“Heps ever owned by lovely woman.
SUNDRY SHOWS!
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WE Elf
Theatre Royal “Camille.”
Her Majesty's “ Two Orphans.”
Criterion “ Fun on the Bristol
School op Arts Macoabe.
Gaiety Theatre “ Mamma.”
Darlinoiiijrst Skating Kink.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEI
Theatre Royal “After Dark.”
Princess’s .). l. Toole.
Opera House “ Paul Jones.”
Alexandra “ His Natural Lifa.
New Bijou “ Caste.”
St. George’s Hall Cogills & Harry Rickards.
“ Camille,” the impossible story of a con-
sumptive cocotte, her paramours and parasites,
caught on at once at Sydney Royal, because botli
men and women revel in that kind of thing,
because of the magnificence of Mrs, Potter’s
various gowns, because of the excellence of the
acting all round, and, lastly, because of tha
manner in which it was staged. Cordon’s interiors
(they did not quite fit the stage) were very fins
samples of the delicate French style of internal
decoration, and were not —it occasionally happens
at this house —killed by being allied to gorgeous
and gaudy upholstery. As the self-sacrificing
(’amille, Mrs. Potter was undeniably good, despite
her tragic gait and angularity of gesture. Her
maimer of taking calls in the middle of an act
must be taken exception to. The manner of her
exit in the third act, when she tears herself away
from Armand,- called forth some well-deserved
applause, whereupon Mrs. P. poked her head
in at the O.P. door and bowed in acknow-
ledgment and it looked very much as if
another round would have evoked the repetition
of her last line and exit. Kyrle Bellew’s Armand
I Rival was also a very good performance, but his
peacocky walk palls somewhat on the male palate.
As Varville, Edward Sass takes full advantage of
his only good opportunity at the close of the fourth
act. Recognising that his acting conduced greatly
to the scene’s success, the “gods” determined to
have him before the curtain, and did, albeit he
came in the triumphant train of Mrs. Potter. His
delay was the sole reason for Mrs. Potter’s
numerous alleged calls at the end of the fourth
act. Emma Gywnne, asNichette, caught the pub-
lic fancy on this her first Sydney appearance.
Everyone was glad to see Mrs. Edwin Bryer
once more. She would have proved useful also in
the “ Lady of Lyons.” The Potter-Bellew sea-
son has been extended three weeks, and “ Camille”
will be reproduced on Saturday.
$£
The “ Lady of Lyons,” that miserable story
of despicable prevarication and un.scrupulousness
which the wordy ocean of grandiloquent bosh on
whose bosom it is borne cannot dignify, drew
good houses during the three nights of its repre-
sentation, chiefly because it is fashionable to go
to the Royal just now. The scenery was made up
chiefly by resurrections, but the avenue scene was
a fine specimen of Gordon’s work, though probably
Mr. \ aughan, the local artist, has something to do
with its success. The Pauline of our dreams was not
materialised in Mrs. Potter, whose wardrobe is not
yet exhausted, and whose lines were delivered in a
series of jerks emphasised by ungraceful spasmodic
tosses of the arm. As Claude Melnotte, Kyrle
Bellew possessed outwardly all the manly attri-
butes that could win a woman’s heart or retain
her affection, but his rendering, not the traditional
one, only confirmed our opinion that Melnotte is a
creature whom any ordinary man would like to
kick. Wilson Forbes was usually supportable as
Colonel Damas ; all the other people were bad as
they make ’em.
# * * *-
After a highly successful six weeks’ season
“ Now-a-JJays,” at Her Majesty’s (Sydney), will
give place to the “Two Orphans” on Saturday
u’ght, when William Rignold will assume his
“big” part of Jacques, in which he made over
2000 appearances in London.
** * *
“ Fun on the Bristol ” is put on at Sydney
Criterion in a manner which completely eclipses
all prior representations. In addition to the gay
O’Brien interior and the gorgeous saloon scene on
the Bristol, a third act, admirably staged, show-
ing the vessel’s deck (when the fun is fast and
furious), has been tagged on. John E. Sheridan,
wishful apparently to outdo his fair country-
woman in the gowning business, as the ignorant,
shrewd, good-hearted hot-tempered Widow
O’Brien, is better than ever, and his sketches of
the drunken dude, filthy drab and old tramp,
with songs, “ Razzle-dazzle ” and a wittily coarse
parody on “ Queen of My Heart,” are excellent
pieces of “ make-up ” and character-acting. The
support is very good indeed. In Grade Whiteford
and Lena Salinger the management have two
gems of the first Water, and the interpolated
variety business alone is good enough to run the
show.
* * * *-
“ Mamma ” was revived at the Gaiety on
Saturday night, with much success. As Pontifex,
the musical plagiarist, Frank Thornton, not per-
haps so well-placed as previously, is very amusing.
Messrs. Brown, Cates and Corlesse are equal to
every emergency. As Mrs. Janaway, the relent-
less mother-in-law, Annie Taylor is in a part
which fits her, and Diana and Winifred are
pleasingly interpreted by Ada Lee and Brenda
Gibson. The curtain is raised with “My
Milliner’s Bill,” in which Frank Cates and Emma
Bronton scintillate.
** * *
The Maccabe season, at Sydney School of
Arts, grows nightly in popularity, and the veteran
monologuist, whose name we inadvertently
omitted from the list of those who performed for
the benefit of the Bourke Flood fund, is apparently
as great a favourite as ever. Manager Buller in-
forms us that matinee performances will he given
on Saturdays in future, when children will be
admitted to all parts of the house on payment of
sixpence.
** # *
At Bondi Aquarium the U.jS. Minstrels,
with whom are associated Billy Warner, Florence
Schuler, and Amy Rowe, are drawing good
audiences. Last Saturday the children of the
Secular Lyceum sang two numbers with a har-
monious freshness that delighted everyone. The
club’s whisky is excellent.
#* * *
Darlinghurst Skating Rink, usually sup-
posed to lie the largest in the world, continues to
get comfortably filled on every week night with
busy skaters and their admiring friends. The
retiring-rooms are numerous and well-appointed.
* * * Jit
Dan Barry, who has been touring the
colonies for some time with a dramatic company
numbering 2d performers engaged in the produc-
tion of “The Parson’s Oath.” “TheShaugfuauu, ’


A GHOST
is not. a photograph, nor a photo, a ghost—but a good photo, is a
true reflection of the original. For high-art photos, go to the
London Palace of Art, 10 Park-street. Sydney. Country photographers’ work from developement
to completion executed at lowest prices. Bromides a speciality, Staff of artists kept for working up.
and other plays, passed through Sydney the other
day en route for Melbourne, playing all the large
towns on the way. Dan, who holds the Australian
rights of “ The Parson’s Oath,” looks in first-rate
trim ; he is one of the very few who consistently
make “ busking ’’ it pay.
* * * 416
“ After Dark ” fetched a vast multitude to
Melbourne Royal, on Saturday, the house being
absolutely packed for the first time during the
current season. The plot of this lively old night-
mare is worked out with more than the usual
amount of infidelity to nature, and the characters
are far less human than a stuffed Guy Fawkes, but,
take it altogether, “After Dark” is a riot of
absorbing interest for the scene-shifters, likewise a
rousing source of anxiety to the stage-manager,
and a misguided triumph for artist Brunton. The
business is carried on mainly by a brigade of cold-
blooded villains under dark arches, and in gamb-
ling hells, railway stations, and back garrets.
Virtue is represented by three born idiots, the
chief of whom, having reduced himself to a moral
and physical wreck with two penn’orths of gin, is
told off to pull the others from a watery grave, or
remove them off the track of a furious cardboard
train. There is no kind of sense about any of
these good people, and they seem to live for no
better purpose than to be dropped down a hole in
the floor to the strains of “ We wont go home
till morning.” When “After Dark” was
first produced it contained a music-hall quite
independent of the gambling den, but in
the present instance these two scenes ore mixed
up whereby the poetry of the conception is
weakened and impaired. Otherwise matters are
even more realistic than of yore. The underground
railway scene is effective, and the Royal tank does
duty for the Thames, into which a couple of supers,
make actual cold plunges, under pretence of being
Charles Warner and his daughter. This amiable
delusion was treated with great consideration by
the gallery-boys, who mercifully refrained from
fetching Charles Warner and Gracie before the
curtain, so that their dryness and dustiness might
not be exposed to a scoffing world. Of the acting
it is impossible to speak in terms of too little
praise. Charles Warner, as the drunken “Old
Tom,” holds the mirror up to his own everlasting
self and reflects his rather wearisome image. The
others, having nothing that is compatible with
possibility to do, are merely to be commiserated
on the fact that “ After Dark” is quite likely to
run for three weeks, by the grace of a “ puffing
billy ” and a cold hath.
416 4)6 * *
“ Uncle Dick’s Darling,” at the Princess’,
was produced before an audience who expressed
their highly qualified approval in limited num-
bers. Considering that Byron’s drama is about
the same as new to Melbourne, the public indis-
position to roll up and see what it is like can only
he regarded as an awful symptom of Mr. J. L.
Toole’s decline, or, as is more certain, of a grow-
ing irreverence for his company. “Uncle Dick’s
Darling” made hut a moderate success at the
Gaiety, more than twenty years ago, when the
comedian was surrounded by people like Irving,
Adelaide Neilson, John Clayton, Mrs. Henry
Leigh, and others, suited to the work. Any com-
parison between the performances of then and
now would be too cruel. Toole himself is rather
less lively and a fraction more pathetic than of
yore, and the rest of the show may be summed up
as inferior to that given under Phil Day at the
Alexandra a while back. In particular, Billing-
lington’s performance, of Mr. Chevenix can be
cited as a ridiculous perversion of the author’s
meaning. This unfortunate fizzle is supplemented
by “Off the Line.” The fact that such a little
gem is being continued for a second week may
assist matters somewhat. Next Saturday they
revive “ A Serious Family.”
416 4(6 4(6
The Alexandra is at present in the throes
of “Marvellous Melbourne,” a work containing
the most agony at the price of any of Mr. Dam-
pier’s florid successes. It is a collection of shudders
relieved by whoops of merriment, and the local
colour is laid on two feet deep. Here they drown
themselves in the Yarra instead of in the Thames,
and rather than go 12 000 miles for a Waterloo
bridge they fix up a distant view of the last new
structure that spans the Marvellous City’s own
particular ditch. The interpretation of this
attractive outrage is decidedly better than it used
to be, even Boothman being guilty of a commend-
able disposition to move with the times. But as
the Dampier season draws nigh to its close a
further change to Marcus Clarke’s “ Term of His
Natural Life ” will take place on Saturday next.
4K- 416 * 4(6
“ Caste ” maintains a first-class average of
patronage at the Bijou. The force of Bulletin
adulation can no further go in this direction, so
there is no immediate occasion to do more than
suggest that Esther’s recognition of her husband
is Mrs. Brough’s best Melbourne effort up to
date.
416 * 4(6 416
“ Paul Jones ” is another matter calling
for nothing but honourable mention of its con-
stant success. Among a round dozen of reasons
why this opera promises to heat the record the
least obtrusive is a heavy father into whom Hodson
infuses about six times the usual quantity of
humour found in such trying characters. An
eccentric duet between Nellie Stewart and this
artistic old geezer is one of the trickiest things in
a specially cunning entertainment.
416 4i6 416 4k
Toole called upon the gallant Captain
de Burgh to explain the meaning of his having
produced “ Uncle Dick’s Darling' at Melbourne
Alexandra without consulting J.L.T. in the
matter. The Capting's story was to the effect that
poor, dead Phil. Day professed to have bought the
Australian rights of “ Uncle [lick's Darling, and
was consequently the sole offender in a transac-
tion which turned out unprofitable to all parties
concerned. This drama has been Toole's very own
from the first. He specially commissioned H. .1,
Byron to write something to suit him, hut, the
“ Darling ” has never seemed to suit anybody par-
ticularly well.
* -* 4k 5k
That medley of distorted ideas and im-
probable situations, represented by some half a-
hundred boisterous characters, and christened
by the name of “ New Babylon, ’ has been
crowding the popular portions ot- the Adelaide
Royal for a week. This satisfactory business can
not. he on account of the piece itself, but must he
ascribed to the realistic manner in which it is
staged by Bland Holt, aided by an able interpre-
tation by the members of his company. Bland
Holt’s Flotsam is as good as ever, and H. Sea-
grave, Gus, Glover, Mrs Holt, and Miss Maggie
Knight are the most conspicuous of the others.
“ The Ruling Passion ” will wind up the prose- 1
season, and the scenic effects alone should bring
along good business. Mrs. Gown-Trotter follows
with L. J. Lohr as manager. The Oogills' com-
pany has hurriedly left Garner’s Theatre.
The Van Tassells have caused some excite-
ment in Adelaide apart from their balloon-asoent
business. It appears that Mr. Van Tassell and
Madame Cora entered into partnership in Mel-
bourne, and half the proceeds of the balloon
shows were to go to each. . Tassell went to
Adelaide to arrange ascensions, met Edwin
Thorne, the actor, and promised him “whacks.”
Madame Cora, after the first exhibition in
Adelaide, claimed her share of the takings, but
both Tassell and Thorne objected, whereupon the
gay Tassell was arrested, and did not get clear of
the infuriated Madame, or rather the officers of
the law whom she had set at work, till he had
parted with £BO. That is one side of the story,
anyhow.
* 5k- &
Madame Ristori’s “ Autobiography” is to
hand in Australia, and will be found capital read-
ing lor an hour or two. She never travelled the
royal road of a Langtry or Potter, but had to go all
through the mill, associated with actors like Sal-
'ini, Rossi, and Majcrones brother. Very in-
teresting is the account of her rivalry with Rachel
in Paris, but the pluckiest thing of her life was
learning the English language, with which she
wound up her English and American tours. Her
reminiscences touch pleasantly on Sydney and Mel-
bourne, with special reminiscences of the Sydney
people, though she forgets to mention how clum-
sily Gatehouse, that funny Mayor, lifted the
golden wreath on her head at the Melbourne Town
Hall, so that it lodged over one eye. Good old
Gatehouse ! He’s still extant, but rides home-
ward no more on saveloy-machines while the Town
Hall clock booms midnight.
At Poverty Point.
Signor Vascimo brought an opera company to Australia,
and a Sydney lady was especially desirous of being intro-
duced to the beautiful Signora Vascimo, wherefore she
applied to that well-known virtuoso, Signor Biskitboxi.
Says he ; “Veil, madame, Signora Vascimo is a very mys-
PHOTO. BY VANDYCK, SYDNEY.
MR. JOHN F. SHERIDAN AS THE WIDOW O’BRIEN.
(At Sydney Criterion.)
terious lady, for when I made her acquaintance in Gal-
gutta she vas a very large blonde, and now she is a very
small brunette. 1 tink that perhaps you would not dank
me for introducing you to Signora Vascimo.”
Where is Toole mentioned in the Bible? In the passage
that tells how the wife of Heber, the Kenite, took a
hammer and nailed Sisera to the floor of her tent. That
hammer was a “.Tael tool.”
Christie Murray is still lecturing in New Zealand.
Ibsen started his career of dramatic authorship as
“ theatre poet ” to a small Norwegian theatre at a salary
of £7O a year.
At latest, Camilla Ursa was at ’Frisco. Benjamin
( lark, the silver tenor, was in her company.
A Miss Harriet Coffin has been committed to a New
York asylum all along, she says, of her love for Kyrle
Bellew. Bellew can’t help the women loving him. It bps
for 20 years and more been his great misfortune.
The next thing, in Melbourne, is the complimentary
benefit to Harwood, which is to be made something great,
ere he lapses into private life as John Biggs. A matim'-c
might draw Coppin out of his shell, with “Old Dog
Tray" or “Constantinople,” though he has announced
his most positively last appearance, at Sorrento, and
there is Docy Stewart (Mrs. Harwood) to witch ns with
“ Sing Me Again the Old Songs.”
Editor Bulletin’,— In your issue of March 20, I find a
par. wherein the writer quotes (and, I am sorry to add,
misquotes) an article of mine in a New Zealand paper on
accent. The misquoting evidently arises from tlie
necessity of brevity, and in no way affects the point he
ra ses. Permit me to say that in stating that
the word accent is misleading, and that the word
should be tune , I was in a difficulty to find
a better word. 1 want one which will represent some-
thing between tone and tune, but the word I used is
the best which the exigencies of terminology will admit of.
When he sajs that what I have written on the subject
“ is unintelligible, most of it," 1 accept his dictum and say
it may be, In him. The question with which he seeks to
pose me about an Irish song, sung by men of three
different nationalities, is reminiscent of a very old
story, what he would call a chestnut. In Spof-
forth’s glee, “Hail Smiling Morn,” there is a passage in
which the words ' ‘ flies away ” are repeated by the sepa-
rate voices and an Irishman and a Scotchman are
the members of the glee party. After the Englishman
and Irishman have sung “ Hies away,” the Scotchman
sings “flees awa." I think your critic has confounded
accent—or what, for want of a better word, I call tune—
with pronunciation 1 hope he will deem this explana-
tion intelligible.—Yours, &c,. Fred. Maccask. [lf the
Irishman and Englishman pronounce the words “flies
away ” in similar fashion, sing them in the same time, to
the same tune, what better term than “accent” can be
found to define the something which makes their different
nationality apparent ?— Ed. B.]
The only photograph of Henrik Ibsen in Australia is in
the window of Allan’s music shop, Collins-street, and is
the large one presented by Ibsen to Janet Achurch, in
commemoration of her acting as Nora, in “A Doll’s
House,” at the Novelty Theatre, London. Underneath is
Ibsen’s own sprawling and delighted autograph, of large
size.
Though Herman Yezin never visited Australia he
married a Tasmanian native (Miss Thompson) well known
on the Australian stage as Mrs. Charles Young. She ob-
tained a divorce from Charley. Incompatibility of
temper, it was said.
Kate Bealby, a young actress who played Kitty Saxton
in “ Now-a-Days” with William Rignold at the Princess’s
Theatre, London, and on tour in the provinces, is now in
Sydney. She holds the rights of the “ Jackal,” a new
farcical-comedy which she produced on' her own account
with much success at the Strand Theatre and Crystal
Palace.
Nellie Barren and Fred Leslie sail for New York in
November; the date of their Austral-tan arrival has not
yet transpired.
Kate Vaughan appears at Drury Lane in Italian opera
during the season as leading dancer. <Mi the other hand,
it is said that Letty Lind and Sylvia Grey both aspire to
speaking parts.
Toole’s appearance in “ Uncle Dick’s Darling” revives
the memory of its first production, 20 years ago, with
Henry Irving as Mr. Chenevix. About the same time was
produced Byron’s other drama, “ Dearer Than Life,” in
which were combined Toole, Irving, Wyndham, Lionel
Brough, and Miss Neilson.
Chas. Warner is glad to throw up the cards, in Mel-
bourne, and get home to London, for, while his ambition
is to act Hamlet, Bertuccio, Capt. Swift, Young Dornton,
and all that style of thing, he has been chained to the oar,
like a galley-slave, with a sickening list of trashy melo-
dramas. But, then, he is thrust into the barn, while
Johnny lords it up in the Princess’ Palace. As Dogberry
says; “An two men ride of a horse, one must ride
behind.”
Beerhohm Tree, it is said, gave a dinner to a number of
friends lately, at which, instead of nosegays, false noses
were furnished to the guests which they were requested
to don.
In order to piay Aunt Jack ”in aid of the acTOrs’
fund the Madison-Square Ti -atre Company leaving New
York at 7.30 a.m , performed at Washington at one before
President Harrison and a brilliant audience (the receipts
were 2150 dollars), were re landed at Jersey City station
at 7.30 p.m., and after having travelled 450 miles, played
the comedy at their own theatre in the evening without
traces of fatigue. This is a record.
The Henry Bracy “ben.” at Sydney “Cri.,”also the
closing performance of the English Opera Company, was
very successful. All the leading ladies received bouquets,
and every number was enthusiastically received.
A London paper says that Ed. Terry and Johnny Toole
have never encouraged dramatic fare of a blue tint, con-
sequently will be pleased to learn while they are in distant
lands that the “Bungalow” and “New Lamps for Old”
occupy the boards at the theatres named after them.
Mr. “ Rip Van Winkle” M‘Wade has slightly altered his
opinions of the Australias since his arrival in America,
tic now says ; “ I like Australia and the kind hearts I met
there,” but advises intending theatrical visitors to “ fix ”
dates before coming here.
This is vulgar, but not so very vulgar:—Mrs. James
Brown-Potter must have a neck on her to play Camille
when she couldn’t fill the bill as Poor-lean Desohapelles.
Tenor Tamagno, who earns 2000 dollars nightly, has a
brother in the chorus whose screw is 17 dollars nightly.
They travel together and the chorister cooks for the
soloist. Let brotherly love continue.
J. L. Goodman has been entrancing the Pietermaritzburg
people with a sight of the fine collection of N.S. Wales
photographs forwarded to him by Government from
Sydney.
The last production of “ La Tosca,” at Sydney Royal,
was disgraced by the antics and bowlings of a number of
University hoodlums—who did what the ordinary larrikin
rarely or never does—Le., interfere with public interest
and enjoyment, and hamper the efforts of performers.
However, one good result will follow the bearish efforts of
these humorless and utterly unoriginal buffoons; the
public will grasp the fact that a lot of vulgar and witless,
though privileged, savages are being coddled up chiefly at
the State expense. It is stated that some of these
creatures were attired as women. Next time they appear
at a theatre unmuzzled it is to be hoped that Mr. Musgrove
will order the gaol-van for eight o’clock punctually.
Here is an American dime museum weekly salary-list:—
Ordinary dwarfs, £8 each; ordinary fat woman, £25:
ossified white man, £6O; ossified African. £4O; human
ostriches—that is, they who eat glass, tacks, live snakes
fish, rats, &c.- £5 to £l5, according to appetite ; snake’
charmers, £8 ; fire-eaters, £8; skeleton dudes, £6 ; iron
jawed men, £7 ; first man to go over .Niagara in a barrel,
£lOO ; second man, £3O.
Says N.Y. Clipper; —“Sophie Miles, an Australian
actress, made her American debut October 12 as Ophelia
in “ Hamlet.” Who is Sophie Miles, anyhow !
“ This is so poor a show-town,” said an American
manager lately of St. Louis, “ that you couldn’t get a
house with the Declaration of Independence by the
original cast.”
Elton lias caught on greatly in New Zealand as the Duke
in “La Maspotte.” Fanny Liddiard has been indisposed
and Miss M. G. Lewis has been playing Fiametta.
Geo. 0. Miln: commenced his New Zealand tour in
Dunedin with “ Richard III.”
Szabo, a Hungarian actor, who died a month or two
ago, had the most extraordinary memory on record in
the theatrical profession, and could swallow the longest
part merely by reading it over. In one night, for a wager,
he learnt right off Scribe’s play of “Le Terre d’Eau,”
one of the longest and most intricate in any 'language.
The most miserable of men is an actor with a bad uiemon ,
and three of the slackest we have encountered arc ihat
good actor, Ireland, the departed Sluart OT.rien. and
Jimmy Milne. Ii was torture for O’Jlrien 1.0 learn a part,
indeed he nev cr did properlv. Robert Heir s me
deserted him altogether towards the close of his life.
hi New Zealand they arc rejoicing over theatrical pm--
perity as a sign that Units tn general are getting bet ter.
but this rule by no means holds good all round, for the
American theatres never made larger profits, than during
the Civil Mar, when people found the distraction of
amusements indispensable, to relieve the awful tension of
them minds.
The fault in the acting of J. L. Toole’s company is the
same as was found under the direction of old Boucicault—
a lack of spontaniety and impulse. They are drilled to
death, and become a lor of wooden marionettes, while
Toole’s own acting, like Boticicault.’s, has become very
precise and calculated. Jr is like Alick Batinermans
hatting—One says: “We want this game to be a lively
game, not a slow, stolid business.”
Manager Canard, late of Solomon’s Museum, Sydney,
has opened a similar exhibition in King William-street,
Adelaide.
That rara am*, an actor who is not a masher, has, ii is
alleged, been discovered in the person.of Edwin Booth, on
whom at his hotel two young and foolish maidens called
and sent up their cards. He did not refuse to see them,
but, descending to the parlour, in freezing tones enquired
their business, and being told that they had seen him play
the night before and would like to make his acquaintance,
at once proceeded to point out their indiscretion and the
danger attending feminine pursuit, of actors. Then, look
ing at the cards, this stern moralist said: “These name-
are of course assumed—if I knew your proper names, f
should certainly inform your parents !” and then bowed
the abashed damsels out. This is an excellent “ ad.”
The proper name of J. (!, Clreville, the comedian, i-
John Rogers, but he did not take it because G, H Rogers
was such a popular comedian ere he went on the stage,
and became the favourite of Ballarat and Bendigo,
ftreville is doing the grand tour of Great Britain, France,
Italy, the United States, and everywhere, and a capital
descriptive letter from ids pen, to Mr. Coppin, has been
published in one of the Melbourne papers, the most in
teresting thing we have read for a long time. However,
he found Irving and Ellen Terry quite horrid in
“ Macbeth,” and the music-halls struck him as brighter
than the theatres, though Sara Bernhardt wound her
silken, serpentine sensuous chains round him, and he was
delighted with Willard as the Middleman. He’s going to
bring out some novelty.
Harry St. Maur’s company opened with “ Jim the Pen
man ”at Auckland Opera House on 7th May. Flo. Sey-
mour is leading lady.
Auckland Amateur Opera Club are spending £‘6oo to
produce “ Mascotte.” Great tribulation in the camp of
the “pore hamachures” because IV. & G. stage the same
opera locally in a few weeks.
Sydney Social and Musical Club held its first meeting
on oth May at Sydney Catering Co.’s rooms, when a
lengthy programme was successfully gone through under
the management of G. A. Sherwin. Dancing followed.
The Musical Club has apparently come to stay.
11. H. Vincent and Dampier were acting together in
Manchester near 20 years ago, Dampier having followed
Henry Irving as leading man. Dampier came to Australia
several years before Vincent, who arrived with Stirling
Whyte, Walter Reynolds, Ella Carrington, Marian Med-
way, and Grace Hathaway. Perhaps Reynolds has done
the best of the lot, for lie is a country manager in
England, and author of very successful plays. Decidedly
Vincent has shown his best acting since he grew into thc-
iine of old men, with his Sir Peter Teazle, Col. Damns, and
Old Dorn ton.
We learn by letter, dated from Durban, that violinist
KemMiyi has made a wonderful collection of violins, -IT. in
number, among the French Huguenots of Cape (Vdonv
and the Transvaal. “For most of these marvellous olil
Cremonas,” says he, “I paid a good price, but some I
bought (or a mere song—one especially, worth at least six
hundred, which I obtained for two pounds.” Remcnvi
starts soon for Europe with “eighty eases of archaic
logical, ethnographic, ethnologic, and artistic objects.’
Last week, in noticing the Bourke Relief “ begabit,” wc
fated that J. H. Clyndes gave a, recitation. Wc wen-
wrong. Fred Maccabe gave a ventriloquial exhibition in
his absence. The mistake arose through our ultimate
accession to the repeated requests of the Baron, who in -
sisted on us going out with him to see a man.
Dampier gives a well-deserved send-off ben. to -Ail.-
Boothman, who is an honour to the profession in every
way, and has been a mainstay of the Melbourne Alexan-
dra. His wife, Ruth Grey, sister of Mrs. J. L. Hall, has
long retired from the stage. These sisters used to be Mr-,
G. B. W. Lewis’s chief support at the Melbourne Bijou.
Anson’s Ecoles in “Caste” is quite the talk of Mel-
bourne as in Sydney, but what a record Anson has as an
actor! Look at his London hit as the original Scum
Goodman in “ Clancarty,” with Henry Neville and Aria
Cavendish, and he was the original Dr. Ceneri, with Beer-
bohm-Tree as Maeari, in “ Called Back.” Some very un-
fair circumstances made him leave London. We’ll not
say we wish him back, but they may look round in vain
for a more sterling, thorough actor.'
Quite a shock is caused in Melbourne amateur circles hv
the death of Hector E, Hall, of the Roscian and Curlew
clubs, a very good actor, even up to parts like Orlando
and Macduff, supporting that clever amateur, Duggan.
“ Oh, dear, whatever is Charles Warner coming to?”
Carrie Swain’s business of the Real Water Tank, in “ After
Dark.” at the Melbourne Royal! Is this what the clever
Cholly was created for ? Alack, and well aday !
Myra Kemble went home to make a name on the London
stage, and she is coining back because she has refused
innumerable offers of the best quality. Such is cable-
graphic logic.
New South Wales possesses over 430,000
horses.
The township of Sodom and Gomorrah,
N.Z., has just been leased to a sulphur-extracting
party.
Queensland richest man is shunned by the
cabmen. He always gives them a shilling for a
shilling drive.
One of the most awful results of that fire
at a Montreal mad-house was the restoration of
speech to a dumb patient.
Someone advertises in a Sydney paper
for a “ Printing and Stationary Traveller.”
‘ ‘ Stationary Traveller ” is good.
In England sympathisers with the relics
of the Balaclava charge have taken the trouble, to
hunt them up, and found 22 of the common soldiers,
every one of them in the depth of poverty. The
workhouse is the superannuated soldier’s home.
The American journalist who has been
requested by the Czar to accompany the Grand
Duke Alexis on a visit of inspection to the
Siberian prisons is Colonel Hurst, of Washington.
The idea that any reports of a, visit made after
long notice and when time has been given to have
everything “readied up” could counteract the
effect of George Kennan’s famous articles is simply
delicious, And it is not to be forgotten that
when Kennan and Frost began their tour they did
so as disbelievers in the atrocity of the adminis-
trative exile system.


mmmu
Watches ami Jewellery are lik ■ good wives—they are
-worth having.
Send for Illustrated Price List. Post-Free.
HI;? (IEOIUJU STKFKT, SYDNEY
(Nearly opposite Railway Station).
factories; Livkrpool and London, England.
T 'rr
.C 2 His. English Lever, Two Years'Guaranteed.
A'e I os, English Lever, “The Unequalled,” full cap.
A'4 English Lever, “ The Special,” compensated.
20/- The Unequalled Keyless Watch. 2ft/-
Conntry Residents and Visitors to Sydney call or send
o A. SAUNDERS, 81.2 George Street (nearlv opposite
Railway Station), SYDNEY.
1 kse Batho’s Baking Powder.
l"se Bathos Baking Powder.
Use I> atho’s Halving Powder.
‘Old Tom.”
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
Conspicuous amongst the “ originals ” so fre-
quently met with at the old-time rushes was a
tall, spare, elderly man with a slight stoop and a
long, full, white board. Of a kindly disposition
and quiet demeanour, “Old Tom,” as he was
usually designated, was liked and respected by all
who knew him. He was an enthusiastic spiri-
tualist, and although silent and reserved in general
conversation, would hold forth by the hour on his
favourite doctrine, whenever he could get a syin
pathetic audience. He was generally considered
to be “ oft’ his chump,” as the diggers phrased it,
and, in view of his antecedents, they were pro-
bably not far wrong. Be that as it may, many a
merry hour they enjoyed at what came in time to
he known as old Tom's “services.” He had a
small annuity, sufficient for his few requirements
and frugal habits, and so lie had ample leisure to
follow the bent of his inclinations. These lay
chiefly in using the “ planchette," whereby ho had
accumulated a vast pile of manuscript, which,
being all but illegible, might fairly be described as
being “of no use to any one but the owner.”
As might be expected, he had to put up with a
lot of chaff now and then, but beyond an occa-
sional “ Weel, Tom, old man, hoo aboot the
sperrits noo?” and the like, which good-humoured
interrogatories Tom would answer by a kindly
nod and a twinkle in his grey eye, his general in-
offensiveness and simplicity of character compelled
consideration from the most thoughtless or
facetiously inclined. On line days he would come
sauntering up the “lead," and seating himself on
a log open out a package of manuscript, much to
the delight of the surrounding “ shepherds,” who,
sc- nting a “ service,” would speedily gather about
the old man from all the adjacent claims.
“ < fentlemen,” he would, begin, “with your per-
mission I will read a
few of my latest p’anche
grams.”
Tom’s funny pronuncia-
tion of this new com-
pound of his own coinage
would invariably evoke
a burst of laughter, and
amid a chorus of en-
couraging cries to “Eire
away, o 1 d brus h e r, ”
“Wire in, Tom,’’ and
so forth —he would go
through his paper in
quiet earnest tones ; and
being a good elocutionist
would usually command
th e at ten tion of his h carers
till ho had finished read-
ing, when he would wind
up with a dissertation
on the “ spheres ” or
kindred matter, until
shepherding hours were
o' - — "ud it was time to
go nome. But the “ ser-
vices ” were not always so
decorqusly condncted.
< Iccasionally the paper he
chanced to read would
contain so many absurdly
ludicrous images that the
uproarious demonstra-
tions of his congregation
would prove too much
for even old Tom’s patient
equanimity, and he would
reluctantly roll up his
papers and depart with
a grave and sorrowful
mien.
The venerable figure of
old Tom is no longer to
lie met with on the
‘ leads,” for he has gone
to those “spheres” he
so dearly loved to talk
of. I will now relate a
brief passage in his life,
which may serve'to throw
some light on the vagaries
of his later years.
Part Second.
Many years ago, in the good old times when
“Old Tom’’was still young and gold plentiful
and much easier to find than now-a-days—worse
luck —he and his brother Dick had a rich claim on
one of the great alluvial rushes of the day. The
depth of the shaft was (ill feet, and the brothers
had hired a casual acquaintance named Ben. to
assist at the windlass ; having now nearly worked
out, they had plenty of stowage-room, so, ex-
cept for the wash-dirt, the hauling was over, and
they all worked below.
Having a roomy tent, the three men lived
together, and, to save time, it was customary for
Dun to go home and prepare dinner, and when it
was ready to return and call the others. On a cer-
tain day he went home as usual, leaving Dick at
work knocking down washdirt, A very little way
behind him Ben. was stowing mullock, and ram-
ming it home by means of a short heavy wooden
rammer—with the twofold object of securing the
roof and economising room. The “ dirt” proved
exceptionally rich, and Dick told Ben. to come
and see a nugget he had just picked out. Ben.
crawled over, taking the rammer with him, and
looked at the gold. It was about the size of
a hen’s egg slightly flattened. Whilst Dick, with
head bent-down, was admiringly regarding it, and
conjecturing its weight, Ben., drawing back a
I (tic and raising the hammer, dealt him a tremen-
dous blow on the nape of the neck. Without a
sound the body sank on its side. Ben. took off
his cap, wiped the perspiration from his brow,
and, stretching out his arm, turned the dead man
on his back, and looked at him attentively. Raising
his shirt he undid a broad chamois-leather belt
with pockets surrounding it at intervals —an
article in common use by the diggers of the days
when banks were not—and pulling it fmm under
the body fastened it round Iris own. He listened.
The hook was jingling against the end of the
shaft, Tom was shaking the rope- the signal for
dinner. Shouting'up the usual “all right!” he
went to the “stowage” and threw out rapidly
about a cartload of stuff. In the cavity lie placed
the dead Hick in a sitting posture, and, having
made scarcely room enough, leaned his back
against a prop, and with his feet jammed the
limbs hard up. Then he threw back the stuff,
covering up his handiwork thoroughly, squared
up the margin of the mullock, and ran his shovel
lightly over the soft rock floor, carefully obliterat-
ing any unusual marks. After a final searching
look all round, to make quite certain he had over-
looked nothing, lie put the nugget in his pocket,
extinguished the light, and went up the shaft.
When he got home he told Tom that his brother
had taken a pick to the. smith to get laid and
steeled, and as ho might begone for a considerable
time they need not wait for him. Accordingly,
dinner over, the two men returned to work. On
their way back they passed a crowd looking at a
dog-fight; a man stepped out and accosted Ben.,
but Tom kept on to the claim and went down the
shaft.
Now, during the interval of the dinner-hour a
curious thing quite unforeseen by Ben. had hap-
pened. Owing to the relaxation of the muscles
one of the dead man’s limbs had straightened out.
Therefore when Tom lit his candle and began to
crawl along the drive his eye all at once fell upon
this strange object protruding from the mullock.
He stopped—fascinated, failing to comprehend.
For a second or two he remained motionless, as a
man who comes suddenly upon a snake- then, as
the fearful truth of murder broke upon him, he
drew back into the shaft, confused and terrified,
for lie felt that his own life, too, hung trembling
in the balance. At that moment, the oscillating
rope and some falling particles of rock, proclaimed
that Ben. was coming down. By a supreme effort
Tom subdued his agitation, and springing into
HOW IS I T HONE?
ON THE BEACH.
IN THE BATH.
the steps, shouted to Ben. in as steady tones as he
could command, to go back, that he had left his
purse on the table, and was coming up
to go home for it. Ben., confident that ail
was secure below, returned to the top, while
Tom, with great difficulty, continued his ascent.
On reaching the surface he rested for a moment,
averting his head to hide his grim resolve and the
tell-tale pallor of his face. Then, with a quick
glance around to make sure of assistance, he
scrambled to his feet, and making a desperate
rush at Ben., bore him to the ground, shouting - ,
“Help! murder! help!” The diggers in the
vicinity ran to the spot and seized the murderer.
Tom's fast-failing strength enabled him to tell his
story ere darkness fell upon him, and they carried
him away for medical aid.
M hen I say that the severe mental shock he
had sustained necessitated his removal to an
asylum for a few months; that Ben. was executed,
and that the money and gold for which he bar-
tered his life, proved the source of Tom’s income
during the remainder of his days, I think I have
told all 1 know about “ Old Tom.”
J. LYALL.
Bona-Fide announcement. Highest cash price
given for all kinds of gent’s left off clothing.
I )ress-suits for sale or hire. Letters promptly
attended to by QUTTTENTON BROS., HI
Russell street, MELBOURNE. (Neir nnmhcv,
ms.)
A BOON TO HUMANITY.
’Tis food for young and food for old,
It. gives new life and vital power,
There’s nothing in the market sold
Like Prmrll’s patent Snow-white Flour.
Building Sites, City of Perth, W. A. Plans
Intercolonial Investment Co., Limited, 90 Bathurst-
street, Sydney.
Photography.-— Charleinont and Co. (vice-regal
photographers), in the Royal Arcade, beg to an-
nonnee that they have now reduced the price of
their Cabinet Photographs to 15s. per do/.,
any style—bust, vignette or three-quarter figure.
Messrs. Charleinont feel assured that this reduc-
tion in price will meet the many who refrained
from sitting in their studio, solely on account of
the price hitherto being higher than they might
can* to pay. Crosvenor Galleries, Royal Arcade.
Forgotten History.
An Atrocity Story.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A station I was once on in the Far North of
Australia bore the reputation of being the scrub-
biest in the continent. I won't name it, too many
have lost money over it; but when I mention the
fact that it was nearly all gidyea and brigalow
scrub, and that there was no part of the run
where you could see more than a hundred yards
before you, many an old Northerner will recognise
the place.
The station next to us was bossed by a man
with a “ black ” theory. He came from a colony
where the blacks had long since disappeared
and was full of the idea that he alone knew the
proper way of managing the natives, and that
everybody else was a fool; this sort of delusion
being common to now comers. At that time the
blacks were in the dangerous transition <stato
between full-blown savagery and semi-civilisation.
On some stations they were allowed in, at others
they wove; kept out; and so they just knew enough
of the white man's habits to make them more
dangerous than ever. The manager aforesaid had,
of course, let them come in and camp about the
place in order to exercise his civilising influence
on them, but on our place they were rigorously
kept out.
We were camped about eight miles from the
homestead at a large tailing-yard, -making a
general muster, when one day a young jackeroo
from the station where the blacks were allowed
in, accompanied by another new-chum, rode up in
hot haste. As it happened it was Sunday morn-
ing, and, with the exception of the men tailing
the cattle, we were all in camp. His story was
soon told. The theoretical manager and the mar-
ried couple cooking on the next place had been
murdered by the niggers. The two owed their
escape to having been away on the run. When
they came back they found that all the blacks had
decamped, leaving three dead white bodies as an
evidence of their unholy visit.
In a short time we were on the way back with
them ; the manager, myself, a stockman, and two
black boys—one of them a deserter from the
native police. It was a horrible sight. All the
bodies had been most shamefully and barbarously
mutilated, the unfortunate super, worst of all.
Every indignity that the savages could think of
had been wreaked on his corpse.
The plan of campaign was soon arranged. Our
manager had too much work on hand with the
muster to leave, so he stopped with the two men
to bury the bodies, and P , the stockman, and
I and the two boys started after the blacks.
The old trooper was a splendid tracker, and for
the first ten miles we could follow as fast as our
horses could get along. The trail took us back
near our own homestead, and, fearing they might
have doubled back to pay that a visit, we' rode in
but found everything quiet, so stopped there that
night. Next morning, by piccaninny daylight, we
were off again, and soon came to the first camp of
the night before. It was, of course, deserted
though several beef-bones left behind showed they
had been doing a bit of cattle-killing on the road.
I I lie track from this camp led straight to a tract
of wild country at the back that joined what was
then called “the desert,” on the road to B
Downs. This no-man’s land consisted of a low
tableland, mostly spinifex ; the edges being sand-
stone cliffs of no great height, but very broken.
It was scrub the whole way, and about three
o clock I red., the old trooper, heard a tomahawk
some distance ahead. After that we had to go
slow 7 as it was probable that some of the natives
would still be making for the camp, and we might
run across them. At last, after exercising great
patience, we came in sight of the darkies, on some
open ground not far from the foot of the sand-
stone cliff ; I had just taken a hasty glance at the
surroundings, when a wild yell from an old gin
close at hand told that they were aware of us.
They had evidently camped near the cliff on pur-
pose, for they made for the rocks at once and dis-
appeared amongst the fallen boulders. I ran one
(11 fellow down, and then, seeing P ’s horse
r derless at the edge of the rocks and Fred, just
disappearing behind a boulder, I jumped off my
horse and commenced to climb towards the cliff as
well. A most strange silence suddenly fell; f or
minute there had been the outcries of the blmks
our own shots, and the noise of our horses. Now’
although I knew that there must be some thirty
or forty natives around, I could not hear a sound
I was peering about on all sides, when suddenly
a couple of pistol-shots were fired close to me, anil
a grizzled-looking old black crept out on
hand and knees and sank down with a groan
Fred., who appeared immediately afterwards*
grinned as he pointed to the blood pumping np
gouts between the black’s shoulder-blades. To-
gether we scrambled np a big boulder in front of
us and found ourselves almost at the foot of j|„.
cliff’s and witnesses of a strange sight-.
The cliffs were not high, but were precipitous
and only to be scaled easily in a few places.
ot these spots was in front of us. It, was amu row
cleft only a foot or two wide, and the blacks were
.mounting by shinning np witli a foot on each -id,..
They were scrambling up as iiard as they could,
and their speed was increased by.some hasty shots
from Fred, and myself. The foremost one had
his hands on the top and was just drawing himself
up when Fred, gave a yell of delight. There was
P ,of whom I had lost sight, running along the
top of the cliff with his revolver in one hand and a
uulla-nulla in the other. The leading blackfcllow
had just straightened himself up and another was
at his heels, when P suddenly greeted him
with a terrible whack on the head that .smashed
the. nulla and sent the native back into the cleft
where, he jammed and blocked all the others.
p fold us that just as we emerged into the
open he noticed two gins slip away by them, elves
into the rocks. After the firH scrimmage lie got
off his horse like the rest and followed t hem,
picking np a nulla-nulla as he went, for his re-
volver was empty. _ He was just in time to catch
sight of the gins disappearing on the top of the
cliff. _ Following, he found an easy ascent, and in
the nick of time was able to cut off the retreat of
most of the men, the principal murderers.
When we came back to the camp and got our
horses the boys amused themselves by routing out
the gins who had taken refuge in the holes and
avities, and mustered up between twenty and
thirty of them.
“ You see this,” said Fred, approaching with a
dilly-bag in his hand. He emptied the contents
on a piece of bark. Amongst the rubbish was a
piece of dark-coloured flesh, quite unrecognisable
to us.
Fred grinned and pointed to his side; “White
fellow,” he said.
It was a piece of the murdered superintendent’s
kidney.
Some time after that we were near the scene,
and turned in to have a look at it. The natives
had never revisited the spot, and still wedged
head-down wards in the cliff was the dried corpse
of the blackfellow P had knocked down. Poor
P ! Shortly after that he went out with a
mob of cattle to stock country in the Gulf, and
died of fever in that delectable region.
F>.
[Our correspondent is a calm and dispassionate person,
not, however, more cold-blooded than lots of people in the
far North, where a blackfellow’s life is no more sacred
than that of a sheep. We should like to hear the other
side of this story.— Ed. B.]
“La Grippe.”
THE SYMPTOMS OF THE DISEASE.
Unfortunately the symptoms of the disease are
only too well known. First there are chills,
speedily accompanied by headache and tightness
across the forehead ; tenderness and watering
from the eyes, and discharge from the nostrils.
The bodily temperature is raised, the pulse becomes
cpiick and moist. The digestive organs become
impaired, appetite is partially lost, and thirst,
vomiting and occasional diarrhoea are induced.
Speedily the whole physique is weakened and the
spirits depressed, this lasting for two or three
days, when convalescence begins, unless the attack
be of unusual severity, or the person be old and
feeble. On the appearance of the disease in
England, the Pall Mall Gazette interviewed
the three leading London medical men in such
diseases, viz. : Stk Oscar Clayton, Sib Morell
Mackenzie and Dr. Robson Roose, and each
prescribed stimulating or tonic treatment. La
Grippe is a constitutional matter, it is not merely
local, and the local effects and symptoms are only
the outward signals that the constitution is
deranged. On the approach of the disease.
Clements Tonic should be taken. This remedy
goes at once to the root of the trouble and cubes
the cause, and t his is the only way to treat La
Grippe. Taking cough mixtures to cure the
running from the nose, &c., is perfectly useless,
the treatment must—positively must—be stimu-
lating and restorative, and Clements Tonic is an
ideal preparation for this purpose, and it has
cured thousands of cases within the last 6 weeks
and saved its patrons thousands of pounds in
doctor’s bills.
Read this letter : “ Sir,—Four years ago I caught
a severe cold which settled in my head and chest,
and caused an incessant cough and copious dis-
charge. of phlegm ; this brought on great weakness
and debility. After considerable attention and
doctors' treatment, the cough was relieved and
finally cured, but the debility remained and
seemed to defy the skill of the medical men and
the power of medicine. 1 had no appetite and
could scarcely eat a particle of food, and was
almost reduc-d to a skeleton*, having entirely
wasted away. I had taken pints Of- cod-liver oil,
malt extracts, and other medicines without
relief, when I was recommended to take Clements
Tonic. I procured a bottle, and am thankful to
say that 1 immediately began to improve ; I could
eat better, and relish and digest what I did eat.
1 gained flesh every day, and my strength rapidly
returned, and a'ter six week’s treatment with
Clements Tonic, I felt anew woman altogether.
I took Clements Tonic six months ago, and have
never had any sickness since, and am only too
glad to add my name to your list of grateful
sufferers. Tours sincerely, Mary Kellett.
Johnny Burgess is now the hero of Wil-
cannia. The other day he crossed the Tallywalka,
which was fully four miles wide, with the mail-
trap and four horses. At times all that was
visible was the heads of the swimming horses and
the top half of Burgess, who was standing on the
seat of the completely-submerged trap. This per-
formance probably puts up a colonial record, not
excepting the performances in river-crossing of
Hungry Tyson, who was a noted man at the game
in his day.
Ladies’ Silver Watches, Hiis. Daiims & f!o., King-street
Arcade.
The Professional and Literary men of London
give their preference to ICstkkuhook's “ Retake ”
Pen. It is a swift and easy writer, and preserves
the characteristics of the hand. Samples free at
all Stationers.
Reliable Watch Repairs, it \ rut a &Co., King-st. Arcade


BUGGIES, BUCKBOARBS,
—AND -
VICTORIAS,
M MANUFACTURERS’ PRICES.
Send for Catalogues and Trices to
THE F. B. WHEELER CO.,
265 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
• sat
vs*:
dip
Wing do
Celebrated
'■€> \\
IND.M
%//
,SM . F. B.Wh
Personal Items.
Mrs. Langtry is now 41 years of age.
Parnell is about to lecture in America for
dollars.
Sir ’Enry’s baby said “Goul the other
morning.
Chief-Justice Higinbotham has begun to
clean shave.
The Bishop of Melbourne is commonly
known as “Goe slow.”
Carlyle once spoke of Heine as a “ filthy,
foetid sausage of spoilt victuals.”
There are but two Hebrew barristers in
N.S.W., while the Victorian Bar boasts of six.
General “ Redan ” Massey is in Australia,
ho the papers say, but they don’t say why he is
hero.
Mirams has discarded the historic um-
brella, and now carries a silver-mounted walking-
stick.
Alfred Deakin and Bruce Smith were
called to the Victorian Bar on the same day, Sep-
tember 14, 1877.
It is stated that Le Caron, the Times in-
former, is applying for employment under another
name in an Australian gaol.
When looking for briefs in Ireland, Chief
Justice Darlpy and Sir Bryan O’Loghlen went
the Munster circuit together.
Archibald Forbes has successfully gone
through a most critical bladder operation at the
hands of the celebrated Reginald Harrison.
The clever and versatile Herbert Palmer
(“ Demos”) has severed his connection with the
Melbourne Herald, which had extended over 20
years.
The survivor of the first three women who-
camped on the site of Ballarat in the pre-gold-
discovery days is now in Ararat (Vic.) Lunatic
Asylum.
There are seven journalists in the New
S.A. Parliament. Holder, the Treasurer, and a
probable future Premier, is editor of the Burra
Record.
Uncle Abigail has just floated an ochre-
mine in England. A yellow ochre-mine, we pre-
sume. This industry has long paid Abigail good
dividends.
The “Rev.” Kinsman, of marrying fame,
was the only parson, or so-called parson, who in-
vited Chiniquy, the escaped priest, to preach in
his church.
Old Brown-Sequard is not discouraged by
the sudden collapse of his life-elixir sensation. He
is still engaged in manufacturing the elixir, and
professes boundless faith in it.
Cardinal Moran, it is said, has a strong
preference for lean and teetotal ecclesiastics. The
Cardinal, therefore, dares to openly disagree on
one point with the late Julius Ccesar.
The enterprising Melbourne attorney who
sold a George-street (Sydney) site to the Equitable
Insurance Co. of tire U.S. for £1)11,000 lately,
netted over £20,000 by the transaction.
When Lord Randolph Churchill rises to
make an important speech in the Commons he
trembles from nervousness and his face becomes as
yellow as though he suffered from jaundice.
Phil. May used, to tell the story of an
inebriate whose jim-jams took the form of detect-
ing yolk-of-egg upon the beard of a clean-shaven
man. This was a very refined variety of d.t.’s.
The Princess of Wales was offered recently
£lOOO by an American magazine for 100 words.
Poor little soul! How she would like to clutch it
after Tummy has gone and spent his week’s salary
on the ballet.
In the estate of the late David Berry, of
N.S. Wales, stamp-duty was paid on £1,252,975,
made up as follows Coolangatta estate, £oi < ,093
North Shore estate, £521,050; and personalty, less
debts, £54,832.
Governor Kintore tv rote to England
boasting that he had made £25,000 in S.A.
through mining. Under the circumstances he
surely could have given a decent subscription to
the Bourke Flood Fund. >*•
Editor Fitchett’s literary ambition at the
period when the only paper that would publish
bis lucubrations was the old-time Wesleyan
Chronicle (Melb.), was to become a Saturday
Reviewer. He has since realised it.
V brother of Captain Bosanquet, of H.M.S.
Opal, Bernard Bosanquet, M.A., is a leading
British Socialist. He translated into English
“ The Quintessence of Socialism ” of Dr. Schaffer,
formerly Austrian Finance Minister.
George M‘Cullagh Reed has ceased to edit
the Melbourne Standard. His successor, it is
said, will be that tough and experienced old Han-
sard man, the popular “Jack ” Roberts, late of
every big Australian daily newspaper.
Mr. Justice Pope Cooper (Q.) has sud-
denly left for Europe, his wife, it is said, having
inherited a fortune. Before trying his luck up
North Mr. Pope Cooper was a N.S.W. barrister
without any ,briefs worth talking about.
The talkative Chief Secretary Deakin, of
Victoria, was lately robbed of £l4O worth of
jewellery. Before he went into payable polities,
and depended upon literature —Syrne literature—
for a livelihood, the only “jewels” Alf. possessed
were his press probity and his personal virtue.
At present the number of people who have
seen Mr. Parnell in his dressing-gown, combing
the hair of the little O’Sheas and hearing them say
their prayers is such as no man can number. But,
“ bless you, they don’t want to be mixed up in the
business, and have refused to give evidence.
“Sister Rose Gertrude” (Miss Fowler)
is, after all, not to take Father Damien’s place at
Molokai. She is a Dominican, and, therefore,
cannot be received by the nuns in charge, who are
of the Sacred Heart Order. She will assume
charge of the leper-receiving station at Kalili.
Max O’Rell was lately much annoyed by
impertinence of a Customs officer. “Do you
know,” said M. Blouet ultimately, “that the great
diamond was smuggled into France by a man who
had swallowed it ? Why don’t you crawl down
my alimentary canal and continue your investiga-
tions ? ”
Morley Punshon, the renowned Wesleyan
parson, left England and went to Canada, to
punch on the red velvet pulpit-cushions, because
they wouldn’t allow him to marry his wife’s sister,
in England. But now the Canadian of
Justice wants to make that crime punishable with
14 years’ imprisonment!
Decent old limb-o’-the-law Motteram was
taken to Bendigo Cemetery a few days ago. He
was much concerned in those grand mining cases
of yore before old .Judge Moley, in Melbourne,
when the spider cniwled out of the inkbottle and
gave judgment on scraps of blue foolscap, tastily
tied up with blue ribbon.
Curious that George Higinbotham, who
once spoke of the bench as a “ splendid banish-
ment,” voluntarily went into that magnificent
exile himself afterwards. Queer also that George,
who is an intense home ruler so far as Australia
is concerned, is strenuously opposed to self-govern-
ment for his own native isle.
Amongst Lord Beerthirst’s £25.,000 liabili-
ties are accommodation-bills, £4078, out of which
he alleges he only got £llOO. Borrowed money is
represented by £1282 ; jewellery and fancy goods,
“ chiefly for presents,” £1460,; guns and cartridges,
£4OO ; tailor and hosier. £044 ; cigars and tobacco,
£3613 ; and betting debts, £637.
Sir James Macßain, who presided at the
Munro welcome in Melbourne the other night,
declared that he hailed the other Jimmy “as a
commercial gentleman, a worthy citizen, and a
great personal friend.” This is as nothing^to the
eulogy he recently showered on Harold Sparks,
now insolvent. And now look !
ifiTT? fHD UP
Keep coo*.
t/aAUIe
Ca/efuHy .
ffnnoctTe
/Vetßin/Hue y, c .
.Put ir at to. '
1
ĵ
A LONG-PELT WANT.
What is the meaning of this lot? the thoughtful and intelligent reader naturally asks:
Well, it is nothing more nor less than a device to ensure the safe arrival of an affianced
best girl ordered “from home” by the average Australian young man (carriage paid). Said
affianced bride, it is well known, too frequently makes other arrangements on voyage-in
point of fact, marries one of the officers or something.
The above picture shows the patent Jumna-Levi mash-proof packing-ease in which a
bride may be shipped with tolerable certainty of coming to hand.
Henry George’s weakness —apart from liis
Single-tax theory—is cigar-smoking. We do not
think we have yet seen the great-little man off the
platform without a weed in his mouth. Georges
hat acts as an extinguisher—it makes him look
ordinary, even commonplace. But when lie bares
his head he is a noble-looking man.
Afred Bliss, the Melbourne auctioneer,
who died, a few years ago from the effects of a
railway - collision, was a great amateur actor.
Once he was playing with the late Mrs. Stoneham
in a scene where the two had to embrace. While
they were clasped in one another s arms Mrs.
Stoneham murmured gently to Alfred : Oh, th s
is Bliss !”
Carlyle used to keep three sovereigns in a
little packet on his mantlepieoe, which he called
“ Leigh Hunt sovereigns,’’because the latter occa-
sionally borrowed them. Carlyle was wont to
narrate the circumstance to all whom it.did not
concern. Hunt would have lent Carlyle three
thousand sovereigns had he possessed them, ana
never disclosed the circumstance.
Professor Drummond, author of “ Natural
Law in the Spiritual World,” does not create so
much fuss in Melbourne as was expected. He i*
an excellent writer, but is unfortunately hitched
on to the vested interests of those spiritual pluto-
crats who maintain that the World cannot be
saved without giving them from £ooo to bIOOO a
year, with free mansions and trips to V urrup.
The late phrenologist Fraser once went to
Melbourne Law Courts to study lawyers heads
and faces and report thereon to the Lv kmnu
Herald. Speaking of Samuel St. John iopp, \
said he had “come across the rubicund Mr. 1 opp.
When Samuel read this he thoughtfully remarked
to Hood, “ Well, I’m stout no doubt, but J don t
think I'm rubicund.” Oh, said Hood, it must
be a misprint for Rubicon. He meant to say that
you had crossed the Rubicon of the profession.
Someone sends us the foregoing as a choice mot.
Had we heard it before, we should have at once
prophesied that Hood had been marked out for the
Bench by the finger of God. It is too late to
prophesy, for he is a judge now, and his wit duly
draws cackles from that servile crew, the junior
Bar.
POLITICAL POINTS
N.S.W. now pays annual state pensions
amounting to £48,782 Ids. 3d.
A couple of Sydney men propose starting
a straight-out Protectionist newspaper at W agga.
Alexander Sutherland, M.A., is endeavour-
ing to work up a Freetrade organisation in Mel-
bourne.
Melbourne Age is making some little
efforts to regain its long-lost position as a leading
democratic organ.
Bishop Reunion cries “ no surrender” on
the divorce question, and says that his Church
will not re-marry divorcees.
Ex-Commissioner Goodchap favours the
leasing of the N.S.W. State tramways. So, it is
understood, does ex-Minister Lyne.
A German review for March contains an
article on Australia in which the writer regrets
that “ the colony is not a German one.”
The late Christopher Talbot, who lately
died at the age of 86, and was for 03 consecutive
years a member of the Commons, never made
during that long period a single speech.
No successor has as yet been appointed to
Sir William Stawell as Lieutenant-Governor.
The Bulletin predicts that, should Lopetoun go
under, Higinbotham will this time come out-
The other night M £ Crae, M.P., stood up
to speak in the N.S.W. Assembly, whereupon
Levien, M.P., told him to “pull down Ins waist-
coat.” ]\l ‘Crae immediately got his shirt out.
They are a happy family in the Northern
Territory. The two members returned at the
recent election —-Larsons and Solomon don t
speak, and are constantly contemplating vengeance
upon each other.
The Melbourne Trades Hall now proceeds
to take up the women’s movement in earnest. The
veteran lien nett is arranging a monster union of
servants, barmaids, waitresses, and soon. Ihe
tailoresses have already got a neat little hall.
Brad laugh fast developes into a full-blown
Conservative, illustrating how the Whig of one
generation is the Tory of the next. Read the
new memoirs of Lord .John Russell to see how
Liberals of the last generation are left high and
dry.
From a private letter, written by Emperor
William, it appears that the sacking of Bismarck
was “appointed by God. Which quite does
away with the notion that it was brought on by
Imperial ill-temper following an abscess m
William's royal ear.
There are mutterings among the N.S.W.
Orangemen of a deep and lurid revenge against
Parkes for having appointed two Roman Catholics
to tlic Federal Convention. Mr. Joey Greer,
M.L.A., for instance, thinks the deed an unpar-
donable one.
The Almanack i>k Gotha is over a
century and a quarter old. When it was first
issued, there were only three republics, Switzer-
land, San Marino, and Andorra, while to-day,
out of its total of fifty-eight states mentioned,
twenty-six arc republics. Next! Australia.'
"v The disgust and contempt produced by the
methods of the British naval court-martial in
Sydney have done more to alienate sympathy
from Imperial institutions than all the democratic
leader-writing and platform-talking done during
the last ten years. It is per medium of incidents
of this sort that Australians ai’e made to feel that
the ways of the ruling-classes of England are not,
and never can be, our ways.
Parnell treats his Parliamentary followers
in queer style. For instance, when Dr. O’Doherty,
of Australia, entered the House as member for an
Irish constituency, he wasn’t at once introduced
to his leader, to whom he spoke but on two oc-
casions during the whole time he remained m the
House.
It is pretty certain that Mr. F . W. Ward,
ex-editor of the Sydney Daily Telegraph, will
run for a Sydney constituency at next general
election as an opponent of the tramway-leasing
scheme. A sitting member has promised to con-
sult his constituents about retiring in Mr. Ward s
favour.
It is said that IT. H. Champion, the
Socialist, is about to visit Australia. His dis-
putes with John Burns and Hyndman have by no
means tended to increase his popularity as a
democratic leader of late. Air. Champion is a
gentleman who wants a lot of watching, like most
champions.
Melbourne Standard let down its hack-
hair on 2nd May, and jubilantly howled : “ Iho
Fight-Hours’ demonstration iu London about
which we have heard so much of late has ended m
a fiasco.’' The poor thing had to take i t all back
on receipt of the accounts of the real and magnifi-
cent demonstration of labour iu England on 4th
May.
Some funny fellow started ringing a small
bell in the Adelaide Theatre Royal gallery at
every pa it where the “grand old British fl.ag,
&0., is brought in (intended as an imitation of the
American “chestnut” joke) during the first night
of Bland Holt’s “Union Jack ” season. This is
rather a good idea and should be generally
adopted. Everybody should ring a hand-bell after
“ God Save the Queen.”
H. E, Downer, the new S.A. Attorney-
General, was appointed for the simple reason tha t
the Cockburn Ministry couldn’t get anybody else-
He is a smart lawyer, but is unpopular as a poli-
tician. There are three brothers of this family
practising the law in Adelaide —John, Henry, and
George. Harold Downer, one of the most brilliant
lawyers South Australia has known, died some
years ago, just when he had worked up a large prac-
tice.
It is reported that when the death-sentence
on the unhappy girl, Bella i erguson, who, in
delirium, drowned her baby at Dandenong, was
“commuted” to ten years’ bard labour, the
“ Executive Council ’ consisted of D. M. Davies,
Professor Pearson, and Attorney-General M nxon.
Hopetoun was there, but, of course, he was a
nobody and didn’t count. Fancy Davies, Pearson,
and Wrixon having more power in a case of such
importance than the full Supreme Court of six
judges !
l tie Sydney newspapers all pronounce the
parliamentary speech in which Parkes introduced
his Federation Convention proposals last week to
have been a splendid success. But ask any news-
paper-man or any politician who heard the oration
his opinion on the subject. In truth, the old man
has never in all his life made a more feeble, com-
monplace disjointed, or illogical utterance. Ihe
speech was utterly unworthy of a great occasion.
However, the good old daily Sup-Press carefully
cover up their present idol’s intellectual naked-
ness with their broad-sheets.
General Miribel is appointed Co.mmander-
iu-Chief of the French array, but be has to abstain
from Boulangising. Here is a man unknown
almost to the entire world, yet the events of a
day or two may bring his name in everyone s
mouth. But there is always the temptation to act
the Napoleon. Gambetta would go for his own
hand, so would Boulanger, so would Carnot, if he
were strong enough. Moral —Never trust a poli-
tician, but insist on your representative being your
delegate. Take a turn now and again at being
your own representative, and let the other man do
the voting. Otherwise lie’ll round on you.
About three times a week we get intelli-
gence that Baron von Brativiirst, or Count
Sausagekopf, or one of a dozen other distinguished
Germans has spoken in terms of high praise con-
cerning Bismarck, and his invaluable services to
the Empire, &o. The thing becomes monotonous
and sickening. Bismarck butter is a drug on the
newspaper market, and “ uiir special correspon-
dent” had better cease shipping the rancid stub
at several shillings a pat. Australia merely
wishes to be informed whenever an honest radical
may get upon his legs to state that Bismarck
ought to have died of convulsions in his cradle,
Parkes claims the credit of having opposed
the Soudan movement. He probably opposed it
simply because he couldn t claini the kudos ol
having originated the idea. Speaking at Glasgow
not long previously, he ventured to say that it
ever the old country needed military assistance
she would get it from Australia. - He thus first
incited and then denounced a picturesque act
which he would fain have placed at his own credit
iu the pages of history—pages which, as Parkes
well knows, often give to a merely dramatic and
meretricious act, a prominence denied to the
sterling and self-denying deeds of true patriotism.
Here is a slab from the now historic speecli
delivered by Randolph Churchill from the British
ministerial benches, and which has so angered the
Tory party ;
Nemesis lias overtaken the government. What is . the
result of its upheaval of the British Constitution. 4} hat
has been the one result? Pigott. (Loud opposition
cheers i What has been the result of this mountainous
parturition ? A thing, a reptile, a monster-Pigott. (Loud
cheers 1 What has been the result of this deliverance.
With all your skill and all your parliamentary instruments
a ghastly, bloody, rotten Pigott. Piggot! 1 iggot.
(Laughter and cheers.) And sir, we are asked to approve
the conception and birth of Pigott. That is the Nemesis
that has overtaken the government, and will always over-
l ike it when it departs from constitutional practices.
Vvhv do 1 bring these matters before the House of Com-
mons? (Ministerial cries of “Hear, hear.’) \es, there
are lots of high- minded and chivalrous persons who not
j on g a co were my friends who are much more likely to
impute to me than to openly assert that I am animated
hv every vile motive —who possibly might even bring a
Pigott to work against me. (Loud opposition cheers.)


r/rfc
' /2 */v? ’s 7- Z?//A/A/y _ /Zss/z'o -/ /" eT'aj/. o/cf , u)fiaZjr
Tfccc-f ~ 7T S- s' /
<?/v£> 3t/A/A/y . ZzAe - <Aeo.?- 60c/.
rf/ztZjyrscAtt rterfz Z'a.Zc/p /r/e actA7# Af/s <A/tO-/rZ-
& ga/// tsJ//jfiot/Z // L r "
S7/?■s?’ Z 3. , 777/7, 7 Ttq&a) a Tr/efi 7uf7&/
TpaZ /ect r-pe c£ ~7n ■S&i)//t? / "
Jinra! o/ fa pafafa uzA^r^dfa recent//re a/
AtnJreal a ie/a/fa ft fa™ ,
J>r /Srawr (fair Award a peca tyfitfada/Areafag /i/pary.
rt &///as Sure™ r//, s
2&/t 7~ t/t/fapt/ cFeff/rt 7# T&r/tti sp/f///
London. Thursday Night.—lt. is reported
♦.hat her Majesty the Queen intends tc
create Mr IT. M. Stanley, the famous ex-
plorer. a Kuight Commander of the Order
of St. Miehael and St. George
y r *sf/iA/L£. y , revuesfecf /?i<° fc
s/ /ur of uoa 7%'S <J>T\AA/Lfy ~ c f s/ec///?e //~— of s/oo ' you fiat/ o/rp/S' & /qo e/fsf/fijfurt/ipcf •/frf’ / £ a/t '
c/ /fprp //■ /s
/// sfss V//?p
7/7f
/7/T/T//Cr/rp 2?A>/DP£/POO/y /fac/ 4J6.SPee?J
7Y/sie / t/'/c/L / Ca/v Jrfe/i£//yty <7e/'
tf^coeUert/. £u/ Wr&osf /'
Mr Stanhope, Secretary oi State tot War, is
to coßoitior the granting of relief to destitute
joreircr* of the Charge of the Light Brigade.
(pJouJav fo/tS/we/rS Jar//s*/- - /Prepay *<>'/..
S^nk.
yfe m/aS? a.y&eyf/ap To a 6.
HOPKINSONIAN HASH.


j
A/tf mi/ M.
-V, " |
|
I
/■
THE N.S.W. GOAERNMENT PROGRAMME.
“THAT A NEW CENSUS BE TAKEN IN 1800.”


The
Marvellous
18s. 6d.
OPTIMUS
WATCHES
The Best, Cheapest and Most Accurate Timekeepers
fever produced.
Made especially to our order by one of the leading-and
most celebrated manufacturers of Watches in Switzerland,
and experience has shown that no watch is better than a
well-made Swiss one. , , , , ,
(dh movements, jewelled in six holes, keyless (in t urns
to wind), enamel dials, crystal faces, well made splendid.v
llnished, nickel cases that will wear excellently ; in fact,
real good-looking, handsome little watches, and magnifi-
cent timekeepers.
Twelve months' guarantee forwarded with every one.
Send P. 0.0. for 19s. 6d. (Is. postage), and have one
forwarded by post. If not, in every way satisfactory after
n week money willingly refunded.
Only to be obtained from
FROST «5c SHIPHAM.
sl KCCACLK MaKKUS, OPTICIANS & KbKCTIUCIANS,
•174 Sl 587 George Street. Sydney.
Foreign & colonial exchange bank
OF AUSTRALASIA, Limited.
Sydney—BG King Street.
Melbourne —30!) Collins Street.
Loudon Bankers —Australian Joint Stock Bank,
No. 2 King William Street, London, E.C.
This Bank undertakes the Exchange of Money,
both International and Intercolonial, includ-
ing the Coinage oe all Foreign Nations, in
addition to all usual and customary banking busi-
ness.
Deposits Received.
3 years
12 months
0 months
3 months
8.! per cent.
8 per cent.
7 per cent.
0 per cent.
('i iimuunica(a sis 1 1 >
Managing Director. ’
be addressed to “The
D J WILSON,
Secretary.
VV. H. PALINU & <J() MP A NY, LIMI T E D,
356 George Street, SYDNEY,
II
AVK Si •assy fc &£ffi’
Society
What is the moral of the detention in
Darlinghurst Gaol of the unfortunate man who
has just been released after suffering nearly four
years’ imprisonment for the non-payment of the
sum of £lB (is. ? The moral is simply this-that
the soi-dimnt democratic community o' N.S.W.
stands listlessly by while the lawyer’s trades-
union (of which the judges are the chief officers)
put a stone under the screw and endeavour to
squeeze blood out of it. No debtor is ever cruelly
imprisoned for four years unless for the crime cf
neglecting or being unable to pay a lawyer’s bill
of costs. This was the offence for which this poor
wretch has wasted in prison some of the best years
of his life.
# # *
The Australian Star, in objecting to the
appointment of Oscar Meyer to superintend the
N.S.W. court at the London Mining Exhibition,
speaks of him as a “foreigner.” If it comes to
that, half our population are foreigners—some of
the Star directors are foreigners. A Sydney
Sunday paper follows suit in denouncing, on
“ Australian grounds,” Meyer’s selection. Is there
any special virtue in having been born on the soil of
Australia ? Oscar Meyer may not have been born
at Croajinga’ong or Jamberoo, but, better still, he
is a good cosmopolitan who, having seen all coun-
tries and having learnt to speak most of the
world’s languages, has elected to be a citizen of
Australia.
This case of the
Egeria irritates a some-
what sore point in Aus-
tralian cities where we
are accustomed to see
the victims of arbi-
trary naval punishment
marched through the
streets to the public
gaols. There is always
a feeling of resentment
against this, for here are
our fellow-citizens herded
with felons, but under a
totally different law to
our own. Such a state
of things cannot last.
# * *
Among the condi--
ti ons for competition s 1 aid
down by Queen Victoria
in the prize given to the
Marine boys are “cheer-
ful submission to supe-
riors,’’ and “ self respect
and independence of
character.” Which sug-
gests a problem for (say)
the Egeria seamen to
work out.
# * *
By the way, judging
from the fact that the
alleged Egeria mutineers
were packed off to
England last week, no inquiry is to be I;eld at
once concerning the general conduct ot the
Egeria’s officers. The British naval authorities
acted with much discretion in not having the seven
convicted sailors confined inSydney prison. Had
the men been sent to Darlinghurst, the result
would have been a memorable chapter in Austra-
lian history.
* • *
The death of Mr. Andrew Chirnside, the
Werribee millionaire, recalls the fact that within
the last few years the Chirnsides have posed as
benevolent gentlemen, and one of the late Mr.
Thomas Chirnside's particular benevolences was
purchasing a site —now worth £2OOO in the town-
ship of Wyndham for a Presbyterian church. Ihe
congregation backed up his large donation
liberally, and a promise of a settlement of the
deeds to trustees followed. No such settlement
was made, and church and ground passed with
the rest of the property to Mr. Andrew. He it
is charitably supposed in the hurry of business
forgot to fulfil his brother's intentions, and now
he is dead, and a state of uncertainty pervades
that congregation. The ground, you see, is not
theirs, the church is doubtful—they are assured
that “the church will be a church as long as
there is .a Chirnside on the Werribee’ w.uch
utterance is just about as vague as t he declaration
of the Maori prophet that “ the potato is
cooked.” What are the heirs’ intentions in the
matter? Suppose that, te epted by an offer of a
few hundreds on the bargain, they should sell out,
sav, to the Roman Catholic party ! Anyway, the
church stands as a memorial to the honour and
glory of—the Ohirnsides.
# *'
Arrangements have been made to “ sweat
Francis Ormond’s estate in the Melbourne law
courts. The charities, which benefit so largely
under the simple interpretation of the dead man’s
will, have taken out a summons for the purpose of
asserting their claim to the £140,000 residue in-
tended to be apportioned among private
Nobody supposes for a moment that the charities
trustees have any chance to get more than their
respective whacks of Ormond’s property. It is
barely conceivable that they can dream of clutching
that £140,000. But as the summons will “in-
volve exhaustive legal arguments,” the cost of
which comes out of the Ormond estate, anyway,
the whole business may be regarded as a compli-
mentary feed to the dressed-up sharks whose
protected jaws work in the interests of Humbug.
* * *
A caveat has been lodged against the will
of David Berry, of Coolangatta, who whiled away
the last moments of his 102nd year in bequeathing
a million sterling to John Hay-
Old David died the other day,
And o’er the Styx was ferried ;
But now there is the dooce to pay
He made a will when, growlers say,
His mind had crumbled in decay,
And didn’t know a “ yea ’’ from “ nay. ”
Yet where is proof convincing, pray V
It pleased him, as he passed away,
To think “in death I’m making Hay.”
Contented quite, he turned to clay
And soon was David berried.
# * *
The maddest woman in Melbourne is Mrs.
Bluett, who, after swearing that a certain corpse
was that of her mysteriously-disappeared ne’er-do-
well of a husband, and then affectionately paying
the corpse’s funeral expenses, has had her old man
handed over to her as a deserter by the local
police. “ Who is to pay the undertaker’s account ?”
she asks piteously.
# # *
The manner in which Lady Hopetoun’s
Irish nationality is ignored in Melbourne is very
remarkable. At the Eight-Hours’ sports half-a-
dpzen bare-legged Highlanders danced and yelled
like maniacs in the presence of the Scottish Hope-
toun and his Countess, but there was no Irish jig
LOYALTY IN THE BACK COUNTRY,
“GEE UP, HOPETOUN!!” (whack.)
or “country dance” in honour of “me Lady.
Then, again, when the Earl and his sprightly (ion-
sort visited Prahran in state, in Punt-road they
passed under a line of Hags stretched across the
street and in which every conceivable flag was
included except the green one ! It is said that the
secret of all this is that the Countess has given the
snub direct to some of the colonial toadies and
their missuses who thought they could crawl about
Government House as in the good old days of
“ dear Lady Loch.”
* * *
Dear Bulletin,— The Beg,a people want
to know who poisoned their dogs. I did. Why i
To save my own life. I wanted sleep. Why
didn’t I clear out of the town ? Because it didirt
suit me. Human beings, I take it, have still
superior rights to dogs. No man has a right to
keep a dog if it inflicts injury on any human
being.—E.J.J.
# * *
What a hilarious time the Hebrew inlan-
ders of Sydney are having just now 1 How they
are winding up the gentiles, to be sure !
# * *
“ Only a Baker,” who writes to the S.M.
Herald, upholding the recent court-martial busi-
ness, is obviously only a butcher who wishes to
conceal his identity. Some people like to be
licked and kicked.
* * *
There are now over .‘lOOO Mormons in
Maoriland. In some places two-thirds of the
Maoris have forsaken the Church of England for
that of Joe Smith and Brigham Young. After
all, when you come to think prayerfully over this
matter, Anglicanism compared with the other
thing must be very dry-hash to a savage.
# * *
Sydney Daily Telegraph “ad.” ;
MIDDLE-AGED Christian Gentlewoman, widow,
- wishes to correspond with gentleman, about 50,
one in comfortable circumstances, who is anxious to
have kind, domestic wife ; honourable view.
What is an “ honourable view ”?
# * *
We read that Mrs. Sophia Laramore. <>f
Waterbary, U.S., has just finished a curious tnor-
tusry wreath in memory of her late husband. It
is made of relies of that, gentleman and of Ibe
wives who preceded Imr Cor it seem, that Mr.
Laramore was strongly addicted to matrimony).
The frame is of putty, into which, while soft, the
widow has put a heterogeneous collection of
articles, such as Mr. Laramore’s spectacles,
his pill-bottle, and many articles which he
had treasured during life, such as a jack-
knife, a piece of candy, &c., buttons from
his old clothing, and a small bottle containing
cheese made by his first wife. Enclosed in the
frame is a picture, which is surmounted by a
device in flowers and leaves, made entirely of
pieces of cloth, &c., drawn from the late Mr.
Laramore’s clothing, and the shirt in which he
died is used to compose a fearful and wonderful
bird. Hair watch-chains and teeth go to make up
the rest of this most strange and tasteful thing in
wreaths.
# * *
Apart from the nonsensical gush always
poured out over a clergyman’s death, there is much
to regret in the loss of Rev. .1. F. Ewing, of
Toorak, though he has been simply killed by over-
study and lack of exercise. His sermons are
praised up as inspirations, but they were awful
dead-weights upon Toorakia. In sooth he was an
able man, who lost himself in the maze of words,
words, words, and it is a pity to see such valuable
lives thrown away on the straw-chopping logic of
theology, merely under the temptation of large
salaries.
* * *
We read among the social fixtures in
Whitehall Review, “The Marchesa Murphy’s
Musical At Home.” What humourists these
English are !
# * *
Everyone in Melbourne sympathises with
Mr. Call, the veteran Police-Magistrate, for the
awful affliction Mrs. Gall being burnt to death
which has hastened his retirement from official
life. Mr. Call is, perhaps, the best beak in Aus-
tralia, but nothing can ever make the draconian
Panton an ideal magistrate. He has a most mis-
chievous fancied gift of being able to read faces,
like Lavater, which saves him the trouble of listen-
ing to cases. Robt. Brough, in the “ Magistrate,”
took Call off well in the long magisterial side-
boards and his habit of pulling them.
* * *
They lived in the country, and one of the
family had gone down to Melbourne, where a re-
lation was undergoing a critical operation, the
result of which he was to telegraph up. The
“ wire ” arrived, but it was as short and unsatis-
factory as a first wire generally is. “ I don’t
know,” said Ids brother, a promising twenty-year-
old spud-planter, ‘ but it’s my firm belief, as he
told one of them hospital chaps to send it instead
of seein’it off hissself ; “at any rate, the hand-
writin’ isn’t his —that I’ll swear.” And yet he lives
in the land of the “ Free, Secular, and Com-
pulsory. ”
# * *
A young and enthusiastic minister in a
Western district (Vie.) church, in the course of a
recent sermon, broke out thus: “ A prayerful
Christian is what I call a green Christian. I
mean,” he continued, as a gentle titter ripped
around the sacred edifice-—“ a Christian with
sap.” But it was no go, he had done it.
* * *
Did Lady Carington really compose that
now memorable letter to Mrs. Brough ? Of course
she didn’t. We all know and admire Lady
Carington as a pretty, gracious little lady with a
sempiternal smile of good nature. It is sheer
cruelty, not to say the greatest of nonsense, to in-
duce any unsophisticated simple-minded little
creature to append her name to a ponderous pro-
duction which everybody knows she could never
possibly have written. You might as well pre-
tend to recognise as authentic the signature of
Aaron Fregalsky, the loan and discount banker,
to a cheque for £25,000 in aid of a fund to enable
people to dispute the legality of usury, as credit
Lady Carington with the authorship of so grandi-
loquent and unwomanish a literary production.
# # #
The Bulletin notices that a licensed
victuallers’ paper lately voted ,€lO to a clergyman
for his valuable articles.
* * *
Little Lord Hopctouu can ho an unconscious
humourist when he doesn’t try. Last week he,
wandered down amongst the wilds of Collingwood,
to tell the mayor, corporation, and destitute
female children that “ he could not wish the local
Home of I lope better luck than to quote the motto
of his own family— At *pas non frorta.” The effect
of this Latin quotation upon Collingwood was
startling. The destitute little girls sat wondering
whether it meant that the “Cuviner was agoin’ to
give'em something,” while the mayor and other
aristocracy delivered “cheers for his I (excellency
and no fracture" until the viceregal party had
disappeared from view. After which there was a
special meeting of the Council, and a resolu ion
(jailing upon the Town Clerk to buy a 1 rench
dictionary was carried with great vigour. An
active search for that there bit of learnm’ is now
being made through the dictionary, and the battled
explorers are buoyed by the* belief that they are
sure to tind it presently. Meantime, the savants
of Collingwood are inclined to think that Hope-
toun’s family motto means. “Don’t fracture my
best ’at.”
* # *
Now is about the time appointed for Mr,
C. G. Millar, of Adelaide and Melbourne, to bo
proposed by Tummy, seconded by Brassey, and
thereupon duly elected a member of the Royal
Yacht Club. And a cheap, easy way of tightening
the silken bonds, &c., is this latest “compliment
to Australia, ” news of which may be expected by
cable. [lt is now to hand.]
* * * ,
A Melbourne broker is trying to boat a
new liquor, alleged to be better than whisky or
brandy. The question is, how much of it does a
man have to drink before he can commence to see
things crawling over the bed ?
# * *
A Melbourne firm of printers are endea-
vouring to make the way of the transgressor hard
by the manufacture of “preventative ” cheques.
The most promising of these novelties seems to be
a tinted cheque, the colour of which is warranted
to fly under the application of any acid “ink-
eradicator.” This device will double up the man
who has been calculating on changing “two
pounds ten ” into “five hundred”; but we cant
see that it will prevent the development of eight
and 8 into eighty and 80.
# * *
The seamen of H.M.S. Egeria call him
Lieutenant Helby-and-bye.
* * *
That blue-blooded weed, Prince Albert
Victor, is back again in England, with his passion
for the pretty Teck cousin burning as feebly as
ever. The Queen won’t hear of an engagement,
Wales and wife disapprove, the maiden says that
a nunnery would be far nicer, and, take it
altogether, Albert Victor's love affair is making
everybody mad, himself included. Tummy’s
equerries have been instructed to hold the flabby
vioe-Heir-Apparent under the pump, but it’s no
good. When he has dried himself and changed
his collar, etc., he maunders around moaning “ O!
I would give half grandma’s kingdom just for one
little kith.”
* * #
A Melbourne surgeon recently read a
paper to his brother leeches and sawbones touch-
ing the shameful manner in which the hospitals
are crowded. Perhaps a patient will now deliver
an essay upon the enormity of the fees which
drove him to the hospital.
* * *
The married heroine of the “ Melbourne
Morgue Mystery” was undoubtedly a single
woman, according to medical testimony at the in-
quest. The doctor who insisted upon the cer-
tainty of this doubtful fact is now taking shelter
behind the further fact that the lady’s husband
went mad after marriage. It is also supposed
that she went mad herself. Either the husband,
wife, or doctor must have beer l mad. This is a
mad world.
* & #
“Nothing but the living presence of the
lady of whom we write happily shatters the per-
fect chain of evidence, and proves that the care-
fully-nurtured daughter of a gallant soldier, and
the ward of one who is deservedly respected in the
community, has not in the waters of the bay
sought surcease for sorrow upon the death of her
deeply lamented mother.” There, now! In that
greasy flow of language did the Melbourne Stan-
dard explain that a live girl hadn’t committed
suicide while not suffering from temporary in-
sanity. Thereafter followed the chain of evidence
which the wild romancer had happily shattered
beforehand. It reminds one of the poetic story of
“Maud Muller,” written backwards, and begin-
ning with “it might have been.”
* * *
A Sydney Evening News man recently
married has been presented with a warming-pan,
kettle, frying-pan and cradle by his confreres.
These articles are likely to be very useful to an
Evening News man.
»' * «
The Morgue (Melb.) Mystery was finally
identified by her false teeth —
That Mystery to solve they sought
For many days in vain ;
Detectives thought they really ought
To dig it up again ;
But now ’twill be allowed to lie
The peaceful award beneath —
They know poor Mrs. Roberts by
Her composition teeth.
Of tragedies in human life
The Morgue can stories tell
The doctor swore this much-wrung wife
Was but a single belle ;
And yet, it seems, a year ago
She wore the bridal wreath,
Whose mouth is closed for ever, though
They recognise her teeth.
'# * *
At uncertain intervals the Victorian Rail-
way Department plunges for pearls, in the shape
of swindlers and swindleresses, who defraud them


The SYDNEY DEPOSIT BANK,
'.JO KING STREET —OO
Established 1885.
Agencies in London and throughout Australia.
Overdrafts granted against Deposit of Deeds,
and all the usual banking business transacted.
The following are the Rates of Interest allowed
for Fixed Deposits :
3 Years hi per cent.
12 Months HA per cent.
(i Mouths 7| per cent.
3 Months 5i per cent.
5 per cent, allowed on daily balance of current account.
For the past Four (I) Years a Bonus of One per
Cent. has been paid in addition to the above rates.
This is the first and only Bank in the Colonies
which divides its profits with its depositors.
Communications from the country will be
promptly attended to.
T. S. RICHARDSON.
(iKNEH.VL MANAOEU.
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
j
j
lid)
i
ALMOST AS PALATABLE
AS milk;
So disguised that the most
delicatostoxnach can take it.
Remarkable as a
FLESH PKODCCER.
Persons gain rapidly
wtiilo taking It.
SCOTT’S EMULSION
Is acknowledged by Physicians to be the FINEST
and BEST preparation of its class for the relief ol
CONSUMPTION, SCROFULA, GENERAL
DEBILITY, WASTING DISEASES OF
CHILDREN, and CHRONIC COUGHS.
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS.
ROBERTS ON’S \\ll ISK Y.
£2OO FRIZES.
GIVEN AWAY IN THE COLONIES
AS FOLLOWS:
10 of *5 each, 525 and 70 £l,
Pamphlets from tile Aleuts,
AX.LT & CO ~ Limited,
cIT A HLOTT E EE ACE, SVDNE Y
by travelling on wrong tickets, or none -at all.
Last week there was one of these dives, resulting
in about 140 of such rogues being caught in Mel-
bourne and suburbs alone. What a horrid condi-
tion of minor morals —and one clergyman was
bagged, too ! Just as he was travelling mentally
through the Empyrean along comes the gruff
porter with “Ticket, please.” r lhe virgin had no
oil in her lamp.
**, * ;
“In the list of names of members of tha.new_
School Boards, published in yesterday's issue, the letters
4 .1.1 V were inadvertently omitted after the name of Mr.
11. G. D’Ardier.” — P. M. Hkralt'.
The influenza does not come for the poor
man only, as Lord Kintore has found out.
Government House, Adelaide, is at present en-
veloped in one large, lengthy “atishoo.”
ife '¥? %
The puzzle of the Collins-street Block just
now is a young lady with thick, short, blonde
hair, all in close and crispy, crimpy curded tiny
curls, like a nigger’s, the question being whether
this is a natural or artificial product. The mys-
tery is as great as that of Beau Brummel’s
collars, only solved by “Starch is the Man.”
Since the Boy Girl Was the sensation there has
been nothing so problematical as this What
Is It?
# # *
The annual distribution of blankets to the
N.S.W. autochthones will take place next week.
And within a day or two afterwards numerous
country pubs, will enlarge their supply of winter
bedding.
* * *
()ucc more it is war to the knife between
the regular police and the detectives in Mel-
bourne.
* * *
Following the example of Premier Parkes,
a by no means moneyless old gentleman of 7b or
so, who at Parramatta, close on half-a-century
since, taught the young idea how to shoot, has
taken unto himself a blushing bride of 30 years,
much to the surprise of his family. Forty-three
years ago this old gentleman walloped ex-Minister
Lackey—who then wore a loose pinafore with a
belt round it. a costume admirably adapted for
the concealment of “ cabbaged ” fruit—for being
unduly familiar with the pears in the school-
garden. It is related that Withers, M.P., was
the only little boy in that school who never got
#
Within the last three years 45 members of
the National Mutual Life Association of Victoria
have died of typhoid fever.
* * *
It is remarked by the acquaintances of the
Sydnev man who has become so suddenly and so
enormously rich that he sees hardly anybody now.
His stony glare is ever directed into the dim
remote as though he saw “ a cock-fight in a distant
place. ”
# * *
A couple of hundred helpless patients are
housed in the so-called Sydney Hospital—a miser-
able wooden shed which, when it catches fire, wdl
burn right down in a quarter of an hour. Succes-
sive Governments have dallied for years over the
matter of providing decent accommodation for the
sick poor of the central district. In our mind’s
ear, Horatio, do we hear the patients bubble and
hiss in their beds while Premier Parkes stands on
the other side of the road squeezing out of his
beautiful beard with both hands the human fat
borne on the balmy breeze. The “ hospital ’
building is such a tinder-box that it may any day
be fired by a bad case of inflammation.
A Nerve Tonic.
HORS FORDS ACID PHOSPHATE.
Dr. F. G. Sadd, M.R.0.5., and L.S.A., 50
Church-street. Rugby, Warwickshire, says; “I
have a favorable opinion of it, and consider it an
excellent nerve tonic.”
Land at Perth, W.A., the best investment.
Plans from Intercolonial Investment Co., Ltd.,
!K5 Ba t hurst-street, Sydney.
A N.S. W. ex-Minister of the Crown, aged
50, is married to a much-gilded lady of 75. _ A
Victorian legal official of 48 is in the same hilarious
predicament.
Chinese parents occasionally kill their
children, it is said, lest the young pledges of
affection might have to go barefooted. A Chow’s
foot, in its natural state, is evidently a rather
horrible affair.
The Aoe newspaper cynically states that
at least five of tile items in Governor Carington’s
speech at the opening of N.S.W. Parliament are
cribbed from the Victorian Statute-book. Parkes
lives politically by stealing cabbages.
The Melbourne Post Office people have to
make up their minds this week whether they will
build a new clock to suit the G.P.0., oV another
edifice to suit the unfortunate ticker they have
been trying to knock sense into for two years past.
The Reverend Miss Carrie Bartlett is the
pretty parson of a Unitarian chapel at Kalamazoo
(Michigan) ; her pulpit costumes are much ad-
mired, and when she ascends the pulpit-stairs
every bald-head has his eye on her boot-tops. —Ex.
The Chaftey Brothers are trying the ex-
periment of flooding out the rabbit-burrows. In
one or two which have been since opened properly
arranged embankments have been found behind
which the rabbits were waiting for the flood to go
down. Now what will they say if such stories
get into the English papers ?
Gustav Axel Waldemar Ostlund has been
discharged by the Sydney Bench in a case of
A WAY OUT OF THE DIFFICULTY.
SHE “OH I WAS TOLD YOU WANT D A COOK. NOW YOU SAY YOU
WANT A COOK AND LAUNDRESS. I DON’T DO NO WASHING.”
HE (he had been chopping the wood and taking in the milk for a fortnight, and wanted to secure
a servant at any price): “WELL, IE YOU PROMISE TO COME, MY
WIFE WILL GIVE THE WASHING OUT.”
SHE : “OH, YOU’VE GOT A WIFE, HAVE YOU? I DON’T WANT TO GO TO
NO MISSUS. I WANT TO BE MY OWN BOSS.”
HE (seeing that the game was up): “VERY WELL THEN—I’LL GIVE MY WIFE
A WEEK’S NOTICE AT ONCE.”
bigamy brought against him. The Bulletin
wonders what course Osthind will now take with
regard to the Sydney papers which endeavoured
to prejudice his trial, in view of the magistrate s
decision that “there was no evidence whatever to
substantiate the charge and that he had no hesi-
tation in discharging the accused.”
Two Melbourne identities were colloguing
the other day, and said one : “ Wonder if Byrne,
of the Exchange, has gone to his own funeral
yet?” The point of this lies in the fact that
Byrne, best known of boni faces, used to go to a
funeral almost every day of the week, and you
would scarce see one without his melancholy
visage glaring through a mourning-coach window.
His only explanation was “Me good nature.”
The more one thinks of the scheme of the
Victorian Bible-in-Schools League, the more
absurd it looks. The regular school-teachers, in-
fidels, and all, are to dose the scholars daily with
Scripture reading, and naturally the child will ask
the teacher to have some points cleared up, but
the mouths both of the believing teacher and the
unbelieving teacher are to be hermetically sealed.
The mere statement of the thing shows how
ridiculous and unfeasible it is. But then it is the
thin end of the wedge of a big conspiracy.
In a late issue of the Barrier Miner the
editor states that a prominent Sydney Single-
taxer has offered to supply literary matter at five
shillings per column. The journalist assailed
asserts that his offer was for the contribution of a
stereotyped circular letter of which copies would
be supplied to various country papers, and that
viewed from this standpoint his terms are above
rather than below the usual rates. The man whose
necessities compel him to supply articles to the
country papers of N.S. Wales is in a mighty bad
fix. The rate of pay is low, but then that is of
little consequence, as the “copy ” is rarely paid
for.
1 he Most N oble the Marquis of Ailesbury
had the cheek to give before the French correc-
tional tribunal evidence as to character m favour
of his old pal, “Jubilee Juggins” Benzon, and
enjoyed himself greatly when he found that Ins
slang was reducing the dignified interpreter to
tears. Said the Marquis “The boys—no, not
the street-boys, but ‘ chappies ’—always thought
Benzon ‘ a silly joker,” and in consequence chris-
tened him the ‘ Jubilee Juggins.’ Didn't think he
would ‘ run crooked ’ purposely ; had always been
a‘shingle short,’ and now gambling had driven
him ‘clean dotty. ”
Writing of men and things in Morocco, a
Mr. Walter Harris is unintentionally rough on the
blessings of missionary enterprise and Christian
civilisation in the wrong places. He says : ' the
Moors live in peace. Crime with them is not
nearly so rife as crime with uNow let us, tor a
moment only, Christianise the whole Moorish
nation. What is the result? The natives let
their hair grow, instead of shaving their heads ;
the result is disease. They drink wine; the result
is crime with which they are unable to cope on
account of possessing no police —and drunkenness
and death. They eat pork, and suffer from scrofula
and horrible diseases at once.” Mr. Harris might
have added—they introduce “morality,” and are
immediately confronted with “ the social evil,” or,
they get married by a parson, and want a Divorce
Court. But enough is mentioned to show that
Morocco, as Morocco, is best left alone. Why
take the blessed Terewth into a country which lias
hitherto managed to do without police ? Let the
Moors live and die without being guilty of “ in-
sulting behaviour.”
Dear Bulletin, Now that F. W. Ward
has vacated the editorship of the Sydney Daily
Telegraph, it is no more than just that there
should be s; id of him this : That no man who
has been seat ;d in the editorial chair of an Aus-
tralian daily paper in this generation had a truer
sense of the dignity of his profession, or did more
to encourage the literary side, as distinguished
from news-reporting, of journalism. Ardent
Freetrader though he was, he did not carry his
fiscal principles into his management of the paper.
Many a time and oft he could have obtained an
article “in the cheapest market” by pilfering
it — aH do many other Freetrade editors—but
wherever practicable, the proprietary’s guineas
went into the pockets of men. In this he
was doing no more than acting wisely in the
paper’s interests, for its virility and success were
largely due to his policy in this direction ; but,
nevertheless, he might have done differently and
still done all that was seemingly according to the
virtues of newspaper management, traditional in
the offices of too many of the daily newspapers.
There is not a man who has stood in the relation
of a contributor to Mr. Ward as editor, but will
regret his abandonment of the position which he
carved out for himself—Yours, .Journalist.
The immense amount of probate-duty paid
on David Berry’s estate accounts for a large slice
of Treasurer M'Millan’s alleged quarterly surplus
The circulation of the Times, according to
Stead, is now not much over 25,000, or half the
circulation of a first-class English provincial daily.
Queen Victoria takes her bed with her
wherever she goes. A whole lot of Sydney people
don’t travel with their beds. You can’t carry a
park.
A well-known Western district (Vie.)
teetotal squatter took a considerable rise out of
two bullock-drivers the other day. The bullockies
had drawn up beside an unlocked gate leading
into one of the squatter’s best grass paddocks, and
were preparing to camp, when the jovial land-
owner drove up en route, for home. With rustic
politeness (aided perhaps by the pangs of consci-
ence) one of the ox-conductors stepped up and
opened the gate, and after the conveyance had
driven through attempted to shut it again, when
lie was paralysed by the occupant of the buggy
turning round in his seat and addressing him
thusly —“ Thank you, my man; never mind
shutting it. I know very well that you’ll turn
your bullocks in as soon as I am out of sight, so
you may as well save yourself any unnecessary
trouble. Good-bye.”
Oh, Granny, Granny I Fie for shame!
It grievei us much to see
You robbing gentlemen of fame,
Omitting their J.P.
From any kind of beastly pride
We’re singularly free ;
But still we will not be denied
Our mystical J.P.
We would not murmur if you dropped
Our paltry LL.D.,
But from our name must not be lopped
Our dearly-loved J.P.
We’re not particular about
Our Ph.D. degree,
But, no, we cannot live without
Our glorious J.P.
The world is welcome to our purse
(Containing one and three),
But one and all will earn our curse,
Ignoring our J.P.
And when to earth we say farewell,
Our last request will be,
Oh, let our tombstone proudly tell,
In life we were J.P.
The Editor’s Wail.
(JfoK The Bulletin.)
Came out of his “ den ” the poor Bogalong editor.
The beer on his whiskers was heavy and chill;
He had just had a row with a bloodthirsty
creditor,
Who had (with a bulldog) come after his bill.
He was haggard, unwashed, his pants wanted re-
seating,
And he had but one answer to everyone’s greeting,
Which was, between drinks, to keep sadly re-
peating,
“ O, write us a ‘leader,’ or give us a par!”
For news was as scarce as are ice-creams in winter,
And sad in his heart was the editor man;
Tormented all day he had been by his printer,
Till at last, with a curse, from the office he ran.
With a frenzied despair he had asked the school-
master,
The plugs in the bar-room, the Methodist pastor,
To help him along, and, to save from disaster,
To write him a “leader,”or give him a par ” !
For no one had died, and none had got married,
None had been fined for unregistered dogs ;
None had eloped, no one had been carried
“ Drunk and disorderly,” off to the “ logs ” —
No horses been stolen, no cattle impounded,
Not even a man for his debts had compounded,
And sadly the editor’s voice thus resounded —
“ O, write us a ‘ leader,’ or give us a ‘ par ’ !”
But “pars” he got none from the plugs or the
pastor,
They only just “ filled ’em up ” at his expense ;
Nor did he get anything from the schoolmaster,
Who streaked away homeward across the back-
fence.
So at last, in despair, this humble depender
On other folks’ labours went off on a “ bender,"
In the wild course of which he oft uttered a tender
“ 0, write us a ‘ leader,’ or give us a ‘ par ’!”
The Bogalong paper that night did not come out.
For printer and “ devil ” as one man agreed
That “ the boss had no time to get all ttat rum
out,”
And so they both cheerfully went forth and
“ spreed.”
And as they imbibed with increasing devotion,
And drank as if draining the Indian Ocean,
They murmured at times, with a beery emotion,
“ 0! write him a ‘leader,’or give him a ‘ par’!”
The Bogalong editor’s not taken warning
By this baleful result and the loss of much pelf,
Still he goes onward, persistently scorning
The broadest of hints to go write for himself ;
If transported he be to the meadows Elysian _
He will ask the first angel who crosses his vision,
Or the demon with whom he comes first in collision,
To “ write him a ‘leader,’ or give him a ‘ par ’!”
A.C.
SUCCESS THE TEST OF MERIT.
The most brilliant exhibition ever held was the
Paris Exhibition of 1884. The Commkkciai
Gazette, of Paris, says ; “ It is not surprising that
a sensation was produced when it was understood
that the experts reluctantly pronounced the St.
Louis Lager Beer superior to any malt liquor ever
drunk upon the continent. It eclipsed Bass,
Barclay and. Perkins, Allsopp and Guinness, the
world renowned English brewers, as well as
hundreds of rivals from Austria and Bavaria.”


Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
Miscellaneous.
Mil. JAMES K. PAGE, in England as
Downey Bleater in “ Now-a-Days.'*
Permanent address : 49 Myddleton-street, Lon-
don, E.C.
Theatrical
HOSIER "ST.
SILK
COTTON
WOOL
TIGHTS, SHIRTS,
AND
OPERA HOSE,
PADS, ANIMAL DRESSES, ETC.
SPECIALITIES MADE TO ORDER.
Oi t Trimmings, Boots, Stage Fabrics.
Manufacturers to all leading London and Provincial
Theatres.
AUSTRALIAN AGENTS WANTED.
10. sSs CO.,
42 King Street, Covent Garden, London.
-ti'3 7 ' ,e ~ Si-gla/fc iEtestored.
WHY SUFFER S We send gauge for testing sight,
a treatise on “Vision,” and all information free. Spec-
tacles of every description from Is.; Pebbles from ss.
Pilot Field Glass, clear definition five miles, with case.
“ Liver ” Telescope, with astronomical glass, clear
six miles, 21s. Good going Silver Watches, 255.,
nickle, 12s. Cd., 15s. and 205., guaranteed two years.
W. E. Toose, Optician, 418 George-street, Sydney.
Awarded Nine Medals at various Exhibitions
Messrs. MAUDE & CO.,
Florists and Nurserymen,
(Of the Royal Exotic Nursery , Peak hurst,)
Have just Opened their
New Premises at HI King Street, Sydney,
And are prepared to receive orders for CHOICE
PLANTS, FERNS and CUT FLOWERS, and to
undertake all kinds of
Floral Decora!ions a! Reasonable Prices
NOTICE,
fi HER RY-BLOSSOM,
v By the Author of “Madam’s Ward,” &c.,
In commenced in
TjiAMILY HERALD PART for APRIL,
-L which contains also the continuation of
Q WEN DALE’S ORDEAL.
A NEW NOVEL,
A By the Author of “ A Bitter Reckoning,” &c.
Also, complete Stories, Essays, Answers to
Correspondents, Cookery, Miscellanea, Enigmas,
Charades, Riddles, &c.
LI A MIL Y HERALD PART for APRIL.
The
LLVM ILY HERALD may be had in Half-yearly
x Volumes and in Monthly Parts of all Colonial
Booksellers and Newsagents ; or the Monthly Part
direct from W. Stevens, 421 Strand, London,
England, for 14s. per annum, post; free.
London: W. Stevens, 421 Strand: and at all
Newsvendors.
JOURNALIST, 27, good leader-writer and
crisp paragraph ist, experienced as Editor
and Manager, desires editorship of country paper.
Address “ Saladin. ” Bulletin Office.
ITjpO CAPITALISTS, SPECULATORS,
"*■ and Others.
Vacant Lands near Svdnev
AVAILABLE UNDER THE
Noil-Residential Clatises of the Land Act.
For particulars and terms apply to
“ INVEST I GATOR,"
Box 800, 0.P.0., Sydney.
NO
DON’T
WASTE
IT
You Will most certainly save Money,
Time, and Anxiety by placing all your
Advertising in our
Write
to
F. T. WIMBLE & CO.,
Advertising Experts,
369 to 373 George St., Syd. Send for Pamphlet
“ How to advertise and why ? ” 11th Edition.
j
mm gbit a cd„
TE A 1M I’OKTKUS
AN I)
15 L END E I! S,
FOOCHOW and SYDNEY.
< Mllce and Sample Rooms:
385 Pitt Street, Sydney.
j
I®" Agents Wanted in every Town throughout
the Colony.
Amusements.
TfEE MAJESTY'S THE ATR E,
Lessee and Manager Mr. Geo, Rignold.
Doors open at 7 ; commencing 7.40. Carriages at 10 35.
LAST TWO NIGHTS ! LAST TWO NIGHTS !
Mr. WILLIAM RIGNOLD
In a New and Original Drama, entitled,
“ 3XT O "W A. - Jl> -A. "X" s.»»
Box Office at Theatre from 10 to 5. Prices as usual.
J. P. Macdonald, Acting-Manager.
QRITERION THEATRE.
Under the Management of Messrs. Brough and Boucicault.
By arrangement with Messrs. MACMAHON.
A SENSATIONAL SUCCESS.
EVERY EVENING ! EVERY EVENING !
the Celebrated Comedian,
JOHN F. SHERIDAN,
The Original
WIDOW O’BRIEN,
in the Puniest Comedy of Modern Times,
“ Frun on tlie Bristol,”
supported by the 35 Members of the New
English Musical Comedy Co.
Prices—ss, Bs, 2s and Is. Box Plan at Nicholson’s,
gCHOOL OF ARTS.
MACC BE I
MACCABE
MACCABE)
School
OF
A RTS.
f Mdlle. MINNIA
Mdlle. MINNIA
I Mdlle, MINNIA
TO-NIGHT and EVERY EVENING.
Special Matinee Saturday Afternoon for Children,
George Buller, Manager.
O N D I AQUARIUM.
The Most Popular
PICNIC and PLEASURE GROUNDS of AUSTRALIA.
The Famous Switchback Railway, conveying
Passengers from Cliff to Cliff daily.
Splendid Asphalt Open-Air Skating-Rink Free to Visitors.
Open Daily from 10 a.m to 10 p.m.
Admission, Is.; Children, 6d. Trams to Gate—Fare, 4d
B|IHEATRE ROYAL,
•*" ROCKHAMPTON, QUEENSLAND.
Seating Accommodation
I 200, Dress Circle.
< 200, Stalls.
UOO, Pit.
Stage, 45 x5O feet. Scenery and Fittings com-
plete, and every convenience. Sliding Roof for
ventilation.
W. a. CAPORN Sc CO., Lesssss.
For Terms and Dates, apply
SABER BROTHERS,
Rock h am ptox.
Theatre royal.
Lessee Mr. S. Lazar.
Sub Lessees, Messrs. Williamson, Garner and Musgrovc.
Treasurer Mr. Geo. L. Goodman.
Thursday, May 15, Friday, May 10, DAVID GARRICK.
SATURDAY, MAY 17. and for Seven Nights
Only,
“Camille.” “ Camille.”
Admission—ss., Bs. and Is.
(TJ.AIETY THEATRE.
W POSITIVELY LAST WEEK
op Tin;
FRANK THORNTON SEASON! 1
EVERY EVENING
MAMMA, and MY MILLINER’S BILL.
FRANK THORNTON as JACK PONTIFEX.
Admission—4s., 3s. and Is. Box Plan at Nicholsons.
JAS. E. KITTS, Treasurer.
TQ AN BARRY’S DRAMATIC COMPANY.
Sole Proprietor arid Manager Dan Barry
THE LARGEST, BEST,
AND MOST SUCCESSFUL
TH E ATRIC AL ORG ANIS AT lON
TRAVELLING AUSTRALIA, j
TWENTY-THR K E ARTI STBS I
Now on tour overland towards Melbourne, opening in
each town in the latest London success,
The Parson’s Oath!
The sole Australian rights of this great play, which is |
now the rage in England, belongs to Dan Barry, who has
arranged to produce the piece in Melbourne shortly.
“The only show travelling Australia that draws big
money is Dan Barry’s.”—London Era.
JJARLINGHURST SKATING RINK.
SKATING
TO-DAY
SKATING
TO-NIGHT
SKATING
TO-DAY
SKATING
TO-NIGHT
SKATING
TO-DAY
SKATING
TO-NIGHT
SKATING
TO-DAY
SKATING
TO-NIGHT
SKATING
TO-DAY
SKATING
TO-NIGHT
SKATING
THE LARGEST AND BEST
IN THE WORLD.
Remember! Remember l
Seven Laps to the Mile.
THE SPLENDID FLOOR
PRONOUNCED
PERFECT I
THREE SESSIONS
TODAY.
Morning’, 10 to 12. Ad.,6d. Skates
Free. Afternoon, 2.30 to 5.
Admission; Gents, Is; Ladies, (id.
Skates, (id.
Evening, 7.30 till 10.15.
Admission, Is. Skates, Is.
Season Tickets:
Gents, 50s. Ladies, 40s.
SKATING
TO-DAY
SKATING
TO-NIGHT
SKATING
TO-DAY
SKATING
TO-NIGHT
SKATING
TO-DAY
SKATING
TO-NIGHT
SKATING
TO DAY
SKATING
TO-NIGHT
SKATING
TO-DAY
SKATING
TO-NIGHT
SKATING
GUNTHER’S BRISBANE CAFE,
Gegror Street: (below Hunter-st.), Sydney.
piiED. GUNTHER, late of the Wheatsheaf Hotel,
Castlereagh-st., is desirous of informing- his patrons
and the public generally that he has now become pro-
prietor of the BRISBANE CAPE, GEORGE STREET.
These premises are commodious, and every convenience is
obtainable. None but liquors of the first quality retailed.
Two of Alcock’s Prize Billiard Tables provided. Piles of
sporting and dramatic papers kept. Special -ccommoda-
tion for the theatrical profession.
=Xh.e Latest R.age! =
YOUR NAME neatly printed on Twenty (-20) Beautiful
Embossed VISITING CARDS, comprising Floral
Landscape, Sea View, Bird and Love-Motto Designs. No
two alike. ALL POR SIXPENCE in Stamps, postage
paid. Agents wanted. Samples free. Address—
Austral lard and Novelty t 0..
11 Hunter Street, SYDNEY.
Furniture, &c.
JTEWTOI and lamb.
FURNITURE and pianoforte
WAREHOUSEMEN,
CABINETMAKERS, UPHOLSTERERS
AND
BEDDING MANUFACT URERS.
SHOW ROOMS AND MANUFACTORY:
SPRING AND O’CONNELL STREETS.
Ip AS Y CHAIRS, for Parlour, Library, or Bed-
A rooms, new designs, covered to order, in
any material.
lIANOFORTES, by R. LIPP and SOHN,
L. NEUI ELI) and other Celebrated
Makers at WHOLESALE PRICES. Newton
and Lamb.
BAGATELLE BOARDS, Portable, various
sizes.
BEDROOM SUITES, complete, in various
Woods, and very handsome designs, with
7 feet Wardrobes, or with smaller Wardrobes for
single rooms. Great variety.
NEW TON and LAM B,
Furniture Warehousemen,
SPRING AND O’CONNELL STREETS.
BEDROOM SUITES, fashionable early
English designs—Wardrobe 4 feet, with
silvered plate-glass door : Waslistand, with marble
top and tile back, Towel Rail; Toilet Table
with Swing Glass attached; and Two Cane-
Seated Chairs, 14 guineas.
NEWTON & LAMB,
O'Connell and Spring Streets.
j
ANYAS FOLDING
COTS, for camping
out. A cheap occasional
bed liprlyt, strong, and
handy, 10s. (id.
Newton & Lamb.
INING TABLES, with patent extending
screws, from 5 feet long and up to 20 feet.
[T A B Nll T ( r r EI, E S COB 1 C DINING
TABLES with extra leaves, strongly
made, £3 10s.
ALL FURNITURE, HATSTANDS and
, CHAIRS. LARGE ASSORTMENT.
NEWTON & LAMB.
f IBRARY BURNiTUHE, CENTRE and
iJ SIDE TABLES, BOOKC SES, SECRE-
TARIES, READING and LOUNGE CHAIRS.
/AOMMODE CHAIRS, BIDETS, with Ban,
Vd SHAVING STANDS, NEWTON and
LAMB.
JAPANESE BLINDS, White or Green (extra
quality), fitted with pulleys and cord, G x 8,
Gs. Gd.; 8 xB, 95.; 9 xB, 9s. Gd.; 10 xB, 10s. Gd. ;
12x8, 12s. Gd.; 12x10, 15s. Newton & Lam b.
Furniture Warehousemen, Spring and O'Connell
Streets.
EASY CHAIRS for Parlour, Library or Bed-
rooms. New Designs covered to order in
any material. Newton & Lamb.
Self-adjusting chair and couch,
for Invalids and Medical Men.
ROCKING EASY CHAIRS, elegant and
restful— a speciality. Newton & Lamb.
j
A
MERIC AN PATEN 1
SHUT UP
CLOTHES DRYER.
135 feet of hanging space.
Very Cheap.
NEWTON and LAM 15.
j
FOLDING
CHAIRS.
Substantial and Light.
Suitable, for Shipboard and
Verandah.
NEWTON and LAMB
Furniture Warehousemen,
Spring and .O'Connell Streets.
('i ARDEN SEATS, 6ft. long, Rustic Cast-iron
Standards, 14s. 6d,, 195., 255., 325. (id.
Newton and Lamb.
“YT'ERANDAH CHAIRS.
V INDIAN DONE ABM LOUNGES.
"O ATTAN VERANDAH LOUNGES, from
IX 155.; and large variety of Chairs, from
10s. 6d. ; special designs, exti’a quality. Newton
and Lamb, Furniture Warehousemen, Spring and
O’Connell Streets.
EWT O N an d LAM B,
FURNITURE and PIANOFORTE
WAREHOUSEMEN,
CABINETMAKERS, IIPHOLSTERERS
BEDDIN G MAN UFACT URERS.
Show Rooms and Manufactory;
SPRING AND U’CUNNELL STREETS,
AND
A Ballad of Bungaloo.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
We sing a lay, a lay that’s true,
About the township Bungaloo,
A many miles away;
Two hundred it may be, or three,
Or even four, the fact is we
Cannot exactly say.
It’s not the most exciting place,
And Bungalooites are a race
Exceptionally meek;
However strange it may appear,
They’re rarely longer “ on the beer ”
Than seven days a week.
The sole excitement to be found
Is when the Sessions-day comes round
For nothing seems to fetch
The simple mind of Bungaloo
So much as when a pal or two
Is sent to “do a stretch.”
Last Sessions there a case occurred,
Of which you probably have heard ;
’Twas that of Matthew Reece,
Air undertaker, he, by trade,
Who only recently was made
A Justice of the Peace.
Idle crime of winch he stood accused
Was that he, Matthew Ileece, had used
The local butcher’s name
On cheques for various amounts;
He also had to answer counts
Of uttering the same.
The charge created great surprise,
For Matthew, in his neighbours’ eyes,
Was looked upon as one
Who might employ his leisure skill
In drawing up a bogus bill
In simple, childish fun ;
Bat that he should have forged a cheque,
And so become a social wreck,
Was more than they could stand :
The moral mind of Bungaloo
Would very properly eschew
A trick so underhand.
And so when Ileece’s case began,
The natives gather to a man,
And to the court repair ;
From north, south, cast and west they conic,
In various degrees of rum
Of fragrance rich and rare.
To Mr. Perry Wigg, Q.C.,
They listen eagerly as he
Expounds each legal clause ;
At ev’ry tolling point he makes
The courthouse literally shakes
With hiecough-y applause.
The learned Counsel argued long,
Their eloquence was hot and strong,
_ Their arguments were deep ;
Each minute the excitement grew,
Till someone drew attention to
His Honor fast asleep.
An ink-pot, dexterously flung,
Awakened Air. Jratice Bung,
(Indeed it was no less).
Who rubbed his sleepy eyes aud cried;
“Oh, leave the bally hoots outside
And bring a 8.-and-S. !”
When he to consciousness returned,
Twas hoped the Court would be adjourned
(The clock was striking two) ;
But “ ro,” remarked the learned judge,
“ From this here bench I will not bu lge
Until the case is through.”
Addressing Mr. Perry Wigg,
He roared : “ You really are as big
A fool as you appear ;
I’m sick of this infernal din,
A clearer case was never in
The whole of my career.
“ The very fact that Matthew Reece
Is proved a Justice of the Peace
In this here one-horse place
Appeals to intellects most dense;
He ne’er committed the offence
He’s charged with in this case.
“ Experience of bush J’sP.
Has long made palpable to me
That barely one in ten
(Statistics prove that I’m correct)
Is gifted with the intellect
To engineer a pen.
“ It should be, therefore, very plain
That if he hasn’t got the brain
■ To write his own—Great Scott !
That he should write a name not his
Is an absurd hypothesis,
In fact, is bally rot I”
Prisoner discharged accordingly.
Sydney, 10th May, 1890.
MONKBARNS.
Melbourne Herald prints this mysterious
line —“Watch real e?tate.A Waterbury lias
hitherto been regarded as personal property.
This is very depressing and unhealthy
weather, says someone, So it is, say we, but why
not keep yourself in spirits by drinking Marshall’s
Tonic Nervine.
Pastor Addis, Charles Strong’s colleague
at the Australian Church, Melbourne, writes that
there never were any real miracles. “For the
bodily resurrection of Jesus there is no evidence
worthy of the name. One disciple believed in an
ecstatic moment that he had seen the risen Lord.
A whole congregation of 500 persons at once felt
the same electric thrill .pass through them, but the
appearance was a phantom, ”
“Bob” Watson, one of the prospectors
who boro the heat and burden of the day in open-
ing up North Queensland, and after whom Wat-
sonville was named, is dead. In his last trip,
through some wild country, he was so reduced by
illness and want of proper nourishment that he
had to be lifted on and off his horse. Though six
feet high and strongly-made, he weighed at the
end of the journey just over eight stone. He was
a splendid bushman and a man who never turned
his back either on enemy or friend.
Special attention is directed to the
“Angola” Spectacles just patented and now
manufactured by Mr, L. Shragcr, of 111 Macquarie*
place. The “ Angola ” don’t require branches and
sit with equal firmness on shapely and deformed
probosci, and arc made, of “ real pebbles ”
mounted with gold, silver and tortoise-shell.
Another speciality is Mr. Shrager’s “Monograms,”
a new device for stamping linen, embroidery,
note-paper, &c., which took prizes at the Mel-
bourne Exhibition. The inventive rnanufacturer’s
prices arc said to be lower than those of any other
house.
The late “Pat” Keighran was once at a
very up-country race-meeting when the rider of
one of the horses in the principal handicap found
himself above the required weight, and adjusted
matters by pulling off his bluchers and riding in
his socks. Just, before the start “ Pat ” met the
owner of the animal, and remarked that he now
considered the race a certainty for him. “ How’s
that?” asked the gratified owner. “Why,” re-
turned “Pat,” “that horse must be a glutton if
he doesn’t make a record in his attempts to get
away from those socks. ”
“ Tommy ” Danger, the silent member
for the Namoi, N.S.W., was, in the old days, an
inveterate practical joker. On one occasion he
took some friends to see him play off a lark on a
young fellow who occupied a hut on an out-
statiou. This young fellow, who, by the way,
was rather “balmy” in the upper story, had
rigged up his bunk on some sheets of bark on the
beams overhead, and when “Tommy,” with his
accomplices standing off to see the fun, approached
the door and shouted to the occupant to open, as
he was so-and-so, mentioning a well-known bush-
ranger of the day, “ Balmy,” from his perch, sent
the first barrel of a duck-gun point-blank at the
frail door, and only “ Tommy’s” terrified shrieks
as to who he was prevented the second barrel fol-
lowing. Mr. Hangar does not tell this now
amongst his list of successful practical jokes.


Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
Ladies’ Silver Watches, 355. Baums & Co., King-street
Arcade.
The Choicest Jewellery. Baums & Co., King-st. Arcade
/■'COUNTRY STOREKEEPERS, ETC.
Should write or call upon
A. M. MARKS & CO.,
—lmporters of—
Furniture, Pianofortes, Glass, Earthenware,
CHINA, FANCY GOODS, ELECTRO-PLATE,
CIGARS »V IOItAdOMSTS SUNDRIES
SOLE AGENTS FOR
Dawn Cigars and Salonica Turkish Cigarettes.
Special Novelties in all Lines for Christmas Trade.
Prices on Application to —
UVE. Marita & Co.,
Vickery’s Buildings, 74a Pitt Streeet, Sydney^
AND AT LONDON
Telephone, No. 919.
The various Australian Institutes of Jour-
nalists are going to join the Trades and Labour
Union.
It is remarked in Melbourne just now that
same of the “ illegal operation” men have “ the
devil’s own luck.”
Daley, the Melbourne undertaker, has
gone at last, after all his customers have been
telling him he was going these 20 years.
Over one million pounds sterling ha s
already been spent in building the Parliament
Houses, Melbourne. Another quarter-of-a-million
mai/ see the work pretty well through.
It is suggested that Signor Succi should
give intending strikers a few lessons in the art of
living on nothing for lengthy periods. What we
fear is that the British employer will graft the
. ucci “fast ’ on to his sweating system.
Opium is killing the Czar, and brandy is
killing Bismarck. Piety is killing Tummy.
Yet another N.S.W. railway-smash ! One
of the best-paying billets in the N.S.W. Govern-
ment service just now should be that of Dr. Wood-
ward, the railway-surgeon, assuming that he is
paid by piecework—rail way-smashes generally do
produce piecework, by the way. We hope this
isn’t a libel on Commissioner Eddy. Anyhow,
whether or not, let her go, Gallagher.
“Protection,” says John Haynes, in the
Evening News, “has been such a withering failure
in Victoria, that,” &c., &e. Harry Dawson,
M.L.A., who recently went over to Victoria,
spent a long day in travelling between Melbourne
and Ballarat, and bet a Ereetrade friend who
accompanied him that the latter could not during
the day meet five declared freetraders. Dawson
won his wager hands-down.
m
j-( eight -1 - I'~, LLN4TH 4 ” 10- Depth 2-I'“.'
'WM’-Paling ■;(!,
I* V / * 1 (limited)
IS (he -roost, complete «r.d perfect instrument ever offered at (he price.
Sever Octavos, Full Trichord, Iron Frame. Patent Check Action, Brass
Fin Plate, Cross-strung, requiring only the minimum of tuning. Hie tone
is powerful, clear, brilliant and puic. In very elegant Black and Gobi or
Walnut Gases. * *
This Piano is introduced by W. 11. PALIXG'& CO . Limited, for the
purpose of meeting a long-felt demand for a good, reliable instrument at an
easy price, and therebv giving to the head of almost every household an
opportunity of supplying his home with a fiistrdass Piano at a price heretofore
paid for a* much inferior instrument.
A gentleman visited the Royal Water-
Colour Institute (London) the other day and
bought pictures to the value of £3OOO. The fel-
lows whose pictures were not selected said he
must be mad; and when his cheque was pre-
sented it was discovered that he really was.
Minister Dow solemnly denies the truth
of the charge of conspiracy brought against him as
a director of the Premier Permanent Building
Society. Pending particularly clear proof to the
contrary, the public are quite ready to accept his
denial.
The Sydney Wesleyans, with a view of
superadding piety to cannibalism, are raising
large sums of money to missionise “their less-
favoured brethren ”of New Guinea. In tins con-
nection we recommend the Papuan niggers to
read Thk Bulletin’s article this week on the
“ Poor Heathen.'’
Ihe new editor of Sydney D.T. will pro-
bably be selected from one of the following able
men : —K. T. Gillon, editor of the Wellington
Post, who, if he comes to Australia, will have to
wear hats less shockingly bad ; K. A. Loughnan,
the scholarly ex-editor of the Lyttelton Times ;
and Thompson Leys, of Auckland Star.
A correspondent of a Melbourne paper
unearths an extraordinary and inexplicable refer-
ence by Macaulay, in his famous Copyright Speech,
year iB4l, to “Victoria and Sydney,” whereas
the name of Victoria, for Port Phillip, was ap-
parently not then thought of. David Blair
scratches Ids head. Possibly a slip of the pen, or
speech, by Macaulay, suggested the name “Vic-
toria.”
K
ei
O
H?
M
m
sdiniHd
■ SJIN30^
LADIES,
CONSULT the Eminent
.Specialist,
Dr. SPEER, 31 York-st.,
Sydney.
PILLS (Guaranteed), 55,, post free.
TheParkes Ministry mean to ‘ ‘ fake ”N. S. W.
electoral arrangements in a manner which will be
particularly pleasing to Calico Jimmy. They
say ; “ You want One Man, One Vote. All right.
The Foreign-trade city of Sydney will then have a
lot more members, and the Protectionist country
will, on the basis if population, have a lot less.
Then we’ll re-arrange the country constituencies —
for instance, we'll fix up Eden so as to unseat
Garvan. Well pile on <lOO Freetraders to the
O’Sullivan’s seat and fire him out in favour of
squatter Tompsitt or some Sydney stockbroker, or
lawyer, or commission - agent. We’ll poi on
Monaro and put Dawson on his ear.” It would be
just as well for Opposition members to thoroughly
ascertain what is proposed in regard to their seats
ere the Bill comes out, as a desperate attempt will
be made to rush it right through on the cloture.
Old-fashioned Jewellery modernised to perfection. De-
signs free. Daiims and Co., King-street Arcade.
j
j
j
AUSTRAL’S
BIRTHDAY CUP
Randwick, May 24.
20,000 at 10 each. 20,000
FIRST 2000
2 -r
:
rH r-H rH
2uo
10,000
All communicafons by Letter only.
Address -
“ AUSTRAL,”
CARE OF THE
NATIONAL BOOT MANUFACTURING COMPANY,
250 Pitt Street, Sydney.
■aaaa imvqv
The
Only Fair Way
of
Drawing.
Run.
24th.
May.
The
Only Fair Way
of
Drawing.
Address: “ ADAM BEDE,” care of H. N. Abbott,
(Owner of United Service Hotel , Auckland Theatre Royal, AhhoWs Opera House, Auckland, N.Z.
(Om- Only Sydney Addreiw)— POST OFFICE CHAMBERS, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Ask for the
Unequalled
“DAWN” 3d. CIGAR,
Of all
Tobacconists,
j
Store
AND
Hotel
KEEPERS.
"Wholesale Agents : A. M. MARKS & Co., 7-ta T ITT STREET, SYDNEY.
[JAwson
DAWSON’S
Sole Agents for Australasia
VAUGHAN, ROGERS & CO.,
(Opposite 0.P.0.)
108 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
p
E
R
F
E
C
T
I
O
N
WHISKY.
SUB-AGENTS WANTED
IN THE
principal Centres
THROUGHOUT AUSTRALASIA.
LL IN SEARCH OP HEALTH
should use Dr. SCOTT’S Electric Appliances.
Dr. SCOTT’S Electric Belts and Corsets are
universally approved by leading physicians as the
best, safest, and most effectual remedy for Spinal
Complaints, Incipient Consumption, Diarrhoea,
Pleurisy, Tumours, Asthma, Bronchitis, Epilepsy,
Lumbago, Debility, Paralysis, Loss of Voice,
Nervousness, Indigestion, Palpitation, &c., and
have cured some of the most obstinate and dis-
tressing cases, after all other remedies (so-called)
have failed. They are constructed on scientific
principles, imparting an exhilarating, health-
giving current to the whole system without shock.
Owing to the great success and enormous reputa-
tion gained by Dr. Scott’s Genuine Electric
Appliances since their introduction (now many
years ago), they have, like all other good things,
been largely imitated by numerous parasitical
charlatans. , Illustrated Circular and Price List of
Dr. SCOTT’S Genuine Electric Appliances sent
post free to any address on application to the
Pall Mall Electric Association,
50 MARGARET STREET, SYDNEY.
IS" When writing please mention this paper.
n
6
m
m
Vi
p
r
s
j^rsoAP
10
Is made with the utmost care from materials
which are
Selected with the Greatest Regard for Purity
and for the
SOOTHING- Si BENEFICIAL EFFECT
Which they impart to the Skin and Complexion
j
YOU FIND"IT DIFFICULT
I TO SHAVE THEN JRY
AT ONCE
Sold by all Chemists and Dealers in
Toilet Requisites,
THE REFEREE.
Funny yarns the cable’s tellan
Us of Kirkham and Narellan ;
Trainer don’t know how to work ’em—
Poor Nan llan 1 Luckless Kirkham !
First they “ stay,” and then they “tire”
As do wo of cable liar.
# # *
Kemp and M'Lean got together on the river one
day last week, and, so far as appearances went, with both
exiinded there did not seem much difference helwien
t 'em. With pace anything alike, youth and weight
sli >nld puil AFl.ean through. Air. “ Paragon \\ atsou, in
a letter to one of the dadu s, tried to throw ridicule upon
Kdwurd Haitian's statement that At‘Lean had shown him-
self, while still a novice, to be a phenomenal sculler,
Haitian, however, e idd scarcely have had any ends to
serve in picking upon APLeab as Soane’s successor, wmlst
Wats ill’s letter plainly showed chagrin at Hainan let mg
the Australian public into the secret that in APLean had
been foui d a future world's champion.
« » *
To put it straight, the Kemp-M ‘Lean boat- 1 ace
will probably he a ding-dong affair for a mile or so ; then
we expect to see youth and superior strength served,
anel the obstinate AP Lean draw away slowly from his
brilliant hut undoubtedly non-gluttonpus opponent.
* « *
“Our Boys ” have made a large commencement
by beating what practically amounted to an; Ab-Kiigland
Lie-ven in one innings. T.ie daily papeis, in accordance
with contemptible precedent, discovered that this victory
—which would have been a defeat if Murdoch had called
“ heads” instead of “ tails,” or >:ice term— was a “ splen-
did performance.” By this lime Warwicks..ire has pro-
bably been knocked into a cocked hut, and “another
splendid performance ” stands to the credit of our cham-
pions. If we give five minutes' thought to the Shef-
field Park match we discover nothing (or certain,
except that the wicket for the Britishers’ first inn-
ings must have been abominable. -Ten batsmen got
rid of for seven runs reads like sufficient cause for the
kangaroo to wag his tail, until we renumber that two
Australians (including Murdoch) had just been bowled for
one run on that same wicket. Of the first day’s play all
we know is that the turf was reported to be in first-class
condition, anil that Murdoch and Go. could make no more
t han 190 runs in nearly six hours. Living them every
credit for winning, Tire Bulletin maintains that our
daily Brass would have pooh-poohed an Australian defeat
under such conditions as those that gave the Britishers
no show.
# * *
Ernest Cavill is going to England and w ll pro-
bably win the British swimming championship. How-
i vor, as he is an Englishman born, and sou of one of the
best and bravest of English swimmers, las win, if it comes
off, can hardly be credited altogether to Australia.
* # «
.Sydney Amateur Athletic Club brought off the
s’c .ml of their club contests on 7lh May, when William
Faber and John Fuller met “ to a finish ” for £100 purse,
.175 to winner, and £25 to loser. Maher is of the Billy
Murphy build, only more so, as he lacks the muscle which
Skinny Murphy shows. His legs would disfigure a poor
turkey, and his breastbone would put to the blush the
proverbial hoarding-house fowl, but he gets there all the
same, and knocked Fuller senseless in the twenty-fourth
round. Fuller, whom Tire Billetix lias ever looked upon
as an overrated man, never struck a blow worthy of the
name, and Maher,, who is a very clever boxer, hit him
when and where he liked after the first few rounds. The
winner, who hails from Adelaide, is now anxious for a
match with Burge, but the writer does not think he is
“in it” with “Ironhark Jimmy,” who would just be
thinking it was time to commence fighting, were he to re-
ceive the amount of punishment which knocked Fuller
out. Maher is a scientific boxer and a hard hitter, but his
weight and physique will not. in the writer's opinion,
permit of his lasting to a finish with the superhuman
Burge.
# * *
The highest-priced horse in the world is the
American trotter, Axtell, who fetched •£21,000. The
next is the English racer, Oimonde, who sold for £15,000.
# * *
Kirkham and Karelian took Boas(e) with
them as protection against the cooltji of an English
spring.
# # *
If the Australians want glory on the turf why
don’t they send to England some of their best jumping
horses and cross-country riders ? Visitors from abroad
think well of our fiat races, but they are amazed at the
Australian cross-country business. What is to prevent an
Australian cut-in at tlie Grand National ?
* * #
The News-Letter cabled an account of the
Carroll-M'Auliffe fight to London Storting Like by re-
quest'. It was the first time in the history of pugilism
that a Californian fight has been so reported in London.
The contest, a forty-seven-round one, is said to have been
one of the best ever witnessed. Carroll, who was de-
feated, has since knocked out “Billy” Smith, the Aus-
tralian middle-weight, in It rounds.
* # *
Joe M‘Auliffe challenges Corbett for the heavy-
weight championship of the Pacific Coast, “publicly or
privately, for any stake from a pint of peanuts upwards.”
# # #
As a result of their glove-fight “ Billy” Murphy
met Warren privately with the “hares” for love and a
bellyful in ’Frisco. Warren was sent to sleep in the sixth
round after a desperate fight.
* # *
Nearly all the ’Frisco papers say that there is no
living feather-weight in the world in it with “ Billy ”
Murphy
* # *
We learnt lately by cable that J. E. Savill,
owner of Ringmaster, does not like the English system of
training ; an ironical comment on his opinion is the cable
which states that Mat. O’Shanassy’s Chicago, in his care,
has broken down badly. Plutarch has broken a vessel,
Narellan is still growing, Kirkham has got no foot, and
Ring-master’s form is known. So Australia’s present show-
on the British turf looks small.
FOR LA GRIPPE (INFLUENZA)
And all colds and bronchial affections the best
remedy is Bosisto’s Original Eucalyptus Oil. In-
ferior oils are bottled to resemble Bosisto’s.
Buyers should see that they get Bosisto’s oil, with
registered “Parrot ” brand on yellow label across
the cork. Accept no other, and avoid disappoint-
ment.
THE GREATEST VALUE
in St. Jacobs oil appears to He in its superior pene-
trating powers; reaching the seat of the disease,
it is able to ease pain almost instantly, hence the
term applied, “It acts like magic.’ St. Jacobs
oil is endorsed by all classes of the community—
from those of humblest position to the most
eminent people in the world.
Lady Florence Dixie says: “That having
used St. Jacobs oil for pain, the result was most
marvellous. ”
Henry Tollemache, M.P., states; “That he
received great benefit from the use of St. Jacobs
oil.”'
The Rev. W. J. Caulfield Browne, M.A.,
says : “ St. Jacobs oil is a most wonderful remedy.
It eases pain almost instantly.”
The Rev. Edward Singleton, M.A., D.D.,
says : “St. Jacobs oil relieved ad pain directly it
was applied. ”
The Right Rev. Bishop Richardson says;
“ St. Jacobs oil is most valuable in rheumatism.”
Mr. William Buchanan, Engineer in the
Cmiard S.S. Company’s Service, says: “St.
Jacobs oil saved my life. I was given up by three
medical men to die.”
St. Jacobs oil is peculiar to itself. It is made
from drugs which no other remedies are made
from. They are gathered from the four quarters
of the globe, and are made after the most scientific
principles. St. Jacobs oil is an outward applica-
tion the cost of which is trifling, but to the
sufferer a bottle of it is worth its weight in gold.
EXPERTS AND CRYSTALS.
Have you ever examined critically the crystals
rued in the bezels of the Waterbury Watches ? If
not, then this will suggest so doing at your first
opportunity. Each of the glasses used undergoes
a minute and careful scrutiny in the hands of an
expert—an expert whose precision and untiring
fidelity appears almost marvellous. Crystals are
often rejected whose defects are so slight as to
escape not only the ordinary eye, but even the
vision of foremen and trained employes in other-
branches. Yet, upon taking one of them to the
expert, that person will invariably point out the
fault, and do it, withal, so quickly that one would
almost believe the spot to have been marked for
identification. The testing of crystals, rigid as it
is, is but a sample of the method and care preva-
lent in every branch of the Waterbury Watch
Co.’s factory. Precision is the keystone to their
success; and therein lies the secret of the wonder-
ful results obtained in the time-keeping qualities
of their marvellously reliable watches, produced
at a nominal cost. The people of Great Britain
and of the PTnited States are eminently practical,
while those of the Australasian colonies are nowise
behind them in this particular, and the continued
flow of acknowledgements received from them
could not be wrung forth by misrepresentation,
nor sustained by anything else than the most
deservedly practical worth.


Business Announcements.
Hats made to Order-
X
'MANUFACTURE
IP HAT s
MERCER^
Morley's Hosiery.
438 George Street, Sydney.
Branch — 07S f leon/e Street, Brickfield Hill.
\\ ILLIAMCARG] L L,
Photographic Stock Importer,
26 T STREET,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
PROBLEM OF TO-DAY -WHERE CAN WE GET GOOD
BOOTS?—SOLVED AT LAST.
b. frektch:
(The French of .years ago)
Can supply Residents here with Boots better made than
ever Boots that must wear well and give satisfaction.
Send vour orders then to 82 Oxford Street, and he sure
to enclose Sizes and Remittance, when your parcel will he
sent at once hy Post, Rail, or Steamer.
Notice Prices for Boots that look well, wear well
and fit well.
Children's Elastic-sides, 2/-, 2/11, 3/0, 4/- 4/0, etc 1 Best
Men’s & Youths’ ditto, 5/0, 6/-, 0/0, 7/0, 8/0, etc. J Boots
Men’s & Boys’ Bluchers, 2/11, 4/-, 5/-, 6/-, best ever made.
A Line of Stylish Laced Boots for Best Wear
(Boys’, Youths’ and Men’s Sizes).
ENGLISH BOOTS for LADIES, CHILDREN, etc.,
Sent as ordered. Lowest Price.
Satisfaction given or Money Retcrned,
Note the Address:
ECLIPSE BOOT CO.,
S‘J Oxford Street, SIIWEV.
E. French, Manager.
D. C. L.
<o
VERY = OLD = SPECIAL
SCOTCH = WHISKY.
(0 —
DISTILLERIES CO.
1
m
rw e
ROYAL
EDINBURGH
CASTLE”
SPECIALHCIEn ML
A A -k
Si
.*
i OLD
IscotchWhisky
I Motet}/too*.
| tio&^'lajrluAou
'•' ‘-jgi
BBS
S*.
■■ •:•
KOVAL
Edinburgh Ensile
WHISKY.
* * *
Special Reserve.
In Square Bottles.
This Whisky was
selected by our Gene-
ral Manager, Mr. .1 as.
Cullen, during Ids
recent visit to Scot-
land, and through its
purity, age and mag-
nificent bouquet, has
already secured the
premierposition in the
market. In cases,qrs.
and octaves. To be
had Duty Paid from
any of the Wholesale
Wine and Spirit Mer-
chants and Distribu-
ting Houses, and in
Bond <»d;i from the
SOLE AGENTS,
William Campbell & Co M Limited*
5S Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
Hotels.
Mr, and Mrs, Thomas Asche
Bur, to inform their Friends and Patrons that,
in addition toother RECENT improvements at the
ROYAL hotel,
a first-class HYDRAULIC ELEVATOR has
lieen erected for the convenience of Visitors,
rendering it the most complete and comfortable
house in Sydney ; and with the personal and un-
ceasing attention of Mr. and Mrs. Asche in every
detail of management, they rely on the continued
patronage of their many old friends, whose kindly
recommendation of the ROYAL HOTEL to then-
friends will be esteemed.
TWAIN'S FAMILY & COMMERCIAL HOTEL,
PRINCES STREET,
(Oppoxite 0.P.0.)
hthtehitt, usT-Z.
Proprietor.
ALEX PALMER
SHRAC
IP
,v
ft
&
0}
si
&
IENTIFK
NSTRUM ENT MAKER
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
In the latest issue of the Nohth Austa-
r.iAN, the Government general-election advertise-
ment, with the royal arms overhead, has got
nixed up with L. L. Smith’s proclamation to
young men who don’t feel well.
Use Batho's Baking Powder.
Brisbane Telegraph has just now engaged
in proving that Mount Biggenden is the mining
wonder of the age. We presume that the potato
is cooked, also that there is milk in the cocoa-nut.
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
GtraixdL IPiev Hotel, Manly.
Utcrnic PHOTO CNC. CO.. 8 BBIOCtiT, SYiifiCV-
LATHI Kit A RUOOKE .
This Hotel has been Re-Furnished throughout &T Cuisine and Comfort a Speo.ahty^
Proprietors.
•A-elx-omlej’ ZLixclraxTge Hotel, Sydney-
m
! .i
m&g
Liaßßf i
> ,
’V-
vlii^
a/T
' A»V >»• V
! ill
SR
A, * ■
m
Adjoining the Sydney Exchange.
iiuinff Financial and Ueneral Mercantile Intelligence
Posted several times DAILY in the Building.
TELEGRAPH, POST and MONEY ORDER OFFICES on the PREMISES.
This Hotel has been thoroughly renovated and re-furnished, and is now unrivalled for comfort
1 attention. Aarons’ Exchange Hotel Co. (Limited!, Proprietors.
((
THE
Xj XT M.’
PW
fsr r ■^ bl ”
ran reaeh £.or h.r years. It never remiires grinding, and to gentlemen who shave them-
they cannot possibly 'do better than to try this particular brand.
ul *v . *2 . , .. i mi'., d,.Kon.nfifnl morocco leather case. 21/-
ua they cannot possibly do newer man w my ••
I Single Razor, in strong leather case, 10/6; Pair, in beautiful morocco leather case, 21/-
Price Razor, ivory handle, 15/-; Pair Razors, ivory handles, in beautiful case, 30/-
Registered and sent Post Free to any part of the Australian colonies.
>/ F AGENTS: CRAIG & AITKEKT, Potosi Hairdressing Saloon,
fiSO 682 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
JONES’ SEWING MACHINES,
FOR THE BOOT AND TAILORING TRADES.
The Best Manufacturing Machines in Existence*
Now Perfected, the New No. 3 and No. 4 Machines on an Entirely new System.
JUST L .A. UST JD X TsT Q-.
]\T ettnei m, & C 0.,
AND LEATHER MERCHANTS,
x x X STREET, x SY3DNTEY.
Sole Agents fur the above for New South Wales ami Queensland.
. • ■, u ,1,„ hoot MANUFACTUUING TRADE in all Details, Including MACHINERY,
stock:
F arlelgH,
TANNERS
16 x YORK
AT.!
Itlnekir
Snliii I’ollhli. Nubian
Favourable Terms
Medical.
DR. RICHARDS
-■■■ ->Bm
Hill'S
COM
■
'\v-
ay
This eminent Specialist, Founder, and Chief
Surgeon of the long-established and favourably-
known Dispensary that now bears his name, re-
ceived his medical education in the leading colleges
and hospitals of Europe. He has devoted a life-
time to the study of
PRIVATE, NERVOUS, AND SKIN
DISEASES.
He has by profound research thoroughly investi-
gated their origin, traced their deadly sources and
insidious dissemination, and ascertained the surest
and safe-1 methods hv which they may be eradi-
cated. with them widely recognised qualifications
combined with unswerving faithfulness to his
patients, he has during his practice, extending
over FORTY YE\RS, attained a well-deserved
pre-eminence in I heir treatment. His practice
embraces d sias-s which probably cause more un-
happ ; noss than any o'her class of troubles that
afllict mankind.
Y'iTTV't M*■
who suffer from the results ot early follies, trans-
gressions or excesses ot more nature ago, bladder
difficulties, a whitish or dark ropy sediment in.
the water, accompanied by slight burning or
smarting sensation. Headaches. Drowsiness during
the day, circles round the eyes, Giddiness,,
irregularity of the bowels, specks before the eyes,
ba t hfulnc«s, discontentedness, weakness or pains
in the back. Liver or kidney complaints, dreams,
buzzing noises in the ears and head, pimples, a
fear that something dreadful is about to happen,
weak stomach, yellow or blood shot eyes, impure
blood, hasty, uncontrollable temper, hacking
cough, who cannot marry, nervousness in society,
wakefulness, palpitation of the heart, general
weakness, and ot her symptoms which lead to in-
sanity and death, should consult him, for he has
mastered these difficulties. On receipt of fid. m
stamps he will send secure from observation in a
plain wrapper, postage
FREE, a LARGE CLOTH-BOUND
BOOK.
Showing plainly how all diseases of the privateer
nervous system may be cured thoroughly and per-
manently without unneco-sary expcnce. This
book will prove a valuable companion, and even
though you be perfectly well its general inform-
tion and prescription may assist you in restoring
some poor friend to health even after his case has
been pronounced incurable by his medical at-
tendant.
ONE POUND IS SUFFICIENT TO
SEND
for Remedies necessary for the cure of NER-
VOUS DEBILITY. Should you require medical
treatment, as procrastination is sometimes dan-
gerous, it would bo advisable for you to sit down
quietly in your chamber and write to the doctor,
detailing every experienced symptom. He wil
on receipt of such a letter, write you. promptly
and courteously, a candid and straightforward
oponion of your case. If you do not think you
understand the case, send for his famous medic
work, the price of which is but sixpence ; enclose
in the volume will be found a list of carefully-pre
pared questions, which will, in all probability,
assist you materially in describing your admen,.
Dr. Richards uses nothing but the purest remedies,
and never prescribes mercury under any circum-
stances. The moment letters arc carefully Pa-
used and answered they are destroyed by nrc.
and patients may rest assured that their cases
will remain a secret between the
themselves. Dr. Richards has successfully treatc
nearly 25,000 cases since coming to Australia,
has permission from at least 10,000 persons
show their written evidence of his success,
communications should be addressed
Dr. RICHARDS,
•7 Spring street
(.off Pitt Street North)
SYDNEY.
Bo sure to mention this paper when " ,|ltin '
CONSULTATION PI! IT-
BROKEN HILL LINE OF COUNTRY.


Shipping.
jjUDDART, PARKER & CO.’S LINE.
STEAM TO
lELBOUKNE and TASMANIA.
From Huddart, Parker’s Wharf,
For Time and Date of Sailing', see daily papers.
The magnificent steamships, BURRUMBEET and
El/INGAMITE, have established an unrivalled reputation
for their speed and accommodation, and their large size
ensures passengers a maximum of comfort. The saloon
cabins are light, airy and very roomy. The dining saloon
is full width of the ships, also magnificent music room,
with gentlemen’s smoking room and splendid promenade
deck. Fore-cabin is on the main deck - lofty and well-
ventilated, perfect sanitation and ample lavatories. Fore-
cabin passengers provided with victuals and rugs. Inspec-
tion invited on days of sailing.
FARES to MELBOURNE:
Saloon, Single £l5 0
~ Return ... ... ... 2 5 0
Forecabin ... ... ... ... 10 0
0
0
0
FARES to HOBART :
Saloon, Single £lO 0
~ Return 110 0
Return Tickets available far Six iioiiliis,
FARES
Saloon, Single
~ Return
Forecabin
LAUNCESTON
£2 5
3 1.5
1 0
For Freights apply
HUDDAET, PARKER & 00-
(LlmitklA
Office and Wharf: Foot of Margaret Street, Sydney.
NO RD DEUTSCHER LLOYD.
IMPERIAL GERMAN MAIL.
Passengers are carried according to the requirements of
the English Passenger Acts of 1885 and 1863.
MONTHLY LINE OP DIRECT STEAMERS
from
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, and ADELAIDE,
to SOUTHAMPTON, ANTWERP, and BREMEN, via
COLOMBO, Aden, Suez, and Genoa,
taking passengers for London,
connecting from PORT SAID by DIRECT MAIL and
PASSENGER LINE to BRINDISI,
will be despatched as follows (if practicable):—
And thereafter every four weeks.
PASSAGE MONEY from SYDNEY,
£ll to £5l IDs.
RET CRN TICKETS, available for NINE and TWELVE
Months, at reduced rates.
Passengers and Cargo are booked through to New York,
via Southampton.
Special facilities arc afforded for bringing out relatives
and friends from the United Kingdom and Europe by pre-
payment of the passage money in Australia.
For FREIGHT, PASSAGE, and all further particulars,
apply to FREDK. BETZ ft CO.’, AoEN’J’Sj 5 O’Comiell-street.
COMPAGNIE DES MESSAGERIES MARI-
TIMES.
SYDNEY to LONDON.
OVERLAND FROM MARSEILLES via PARIS.
Steamers under postal contract with the Government of
France, calling at MELBOURNE ADELAIDE, KINO
GEORGE’S SOUND, MAKE, SUEZ, and PORT SAID.
Passengers hooked to KURRACHEE, BOMBAY,
Mauritius, and east coast of Africa.
The service is carried on by powerful steamers of 4000
tons and 3000 effective h.p., built expressly for the Aus-
tralian and New Caledonian line, which will be despatched
as follows
And thenceforward on the 25th of each month.
. Rates of passage-money to Marseilles froln £2O to £65,
including table wines anil Stick Canal dues on passengers.
RETURN TICKETS issued at the following rates:—-
English interpreters meet through passengers foi
London on arrival of steamers at Marseilles, and aocom
pany them to Paris and Calais. N.B. —Passengers’ luggage
conveyed free of cost from Marseilles to London. For
freight* passage, and further particulars apply at the
Ohttipally’s Office, 15 Macquarie-place.
A. CONIL, Principal Agent.
SERVICE TO ENGLAND.
PENINSULAR AND ORIENTAL STEAM
NAVIGATION COMPANY.
The Company’s Royal Mail Steamships (under contract
with the Imperial, New South Wales, Victorian, and South
Australian Governments) will be dispatched from their
Wharf, Circular Quay, as under, for LONDON, calling at
Melbourne, Adelaide, Albany, Colombo, Aden, Brindisi,
Malta, Gibraltar, and Plymouth.
And henceforth every alternate week.
RESERVED CABINS ON'MODERATE TERMS.
SALOON PASSENGERS MAY BREAK THEIR JOURNEY.
The arrangements for SECOND SALOON PASSENGERS
having been thoroughly re-organised, the accommodation
now offered is unsurpassed. Passage-money can be paid
here for passages from England. Liberal concessions made
lo families. Passengers, cargo, and parcels are booked
through to India, China, and Japan. Cargo and parcels
"ill not be received after 3 p.m, on the day previous to
Bailing, For all information apply at the Company’s
Offices, 247 George-street. A, MACLEAN Acting Agent.
JOHN BRIDOE & 00.,
CIRCULAR QUAY , SUSSEX STREET ,
DARLING- HARBOUR ,
WOOL BROKERS.
Hides. Tallow, Sheepskins, Kangaroo, Bear and
Opossum Skins, Ac.
atjctioWbers.
A new half-penny weekly, to be edited by
Archibald Grove, of the successful New .Review,
is the latest London project.
The summarised results of a series of in-
quiries made as to the operation of the death-
penalty, both in America and in the principal
European countries, are issued in leaflet form by
the Howard Association. The returns, covering
ten years, prove not merely the extreme un-
certainty which marks the inflation of capital
punishment, but shows that uncertainty "greatly
weakens or nullifies its deterrent character. ’’ It
is curious to reflect that Finland— that remarkable
country now struggling to preserve its inde-
pendence - had abolished capital punishment in,
and has had no execution since, lb2o. It is also
significant to remark that “murder has not in-
creased during these sixty-four years/’ In these
parts of the United States where the death penalty
is still in vogue, the record is gloomy indeed.
A miserable specimen of (I. A. Sala’s
philosophy appears in the A uers. The garrulous
old fat gentleman reckons up the position of the-
slop-trade hands, at the East-end of London, as
beyond the reach of human remedy : “ Alas I poor
people; how are they to organise? and against
whom? and what would be, in the end, the result
of organisation against the Inevitable- which in-
evitable I tike to be the determination of the
public to have an ample supply, of cheap
ready-made clothing, the production of which
means semi-starvation wages?” Heavy feeding
has impaired Sala’s men tal vision, and the generous
liquors he delights to' tattle about have dulled his
understanding. He snuffles like a parson to whom
the existing state of affairs is always the result of
the great “ Inevitable. ’ Sala's paragraph re-
minds one of a sermon upon the beauties of con-
tentment in every department of life to which the
Loard has called us. It was written for the
Akgl'h, and ought to conclude with the Doxology.
Shipping.
TTNION steam ship company of new
w ZEALAND, Limited.
SAN FRANCISCO KOVAL MAIL SERVICE.
OVERLAND ROUTE TO ENGLAND VIA SAN
FRANCISCO AND NEW YORK,
Calling- at
AUCKLAND and HONOLULU,
Avoiding- alike the heat of the Red Sea and the cold
of Caps Horn. ,
Under Contract with the Postmasters-General of New
South Wales and New Zealand, the steamers of this line
are appointed to leave Sydney and Auckland for Honolulu
and San Francisco every fourth Wednesday, sailing as
under:
Each steamer carries a duly qualified surgeon.
These steamers are fitted with Electric Light and with a
Refrigerating Chamber for ship provisions, insuring a
plentiful supply of ice throughout the voyage.
Passengers are booked to San Francisco or through to
European destinations and have at San Francisco choice of
the unrivalled Atlantic Steamship Lines of the Cunard,
Inman, White Star, and other Companies.
All first-class passengers are allowed 3601 b. of baggage
to San Francisco and 2501 b. “ Overland ” free of charge.
THROUGH FARE TO LIVERPOOL.
FIRST-CLASS £O3 to £OO.
Time-cards, railway maps, and gu de books, showing all
routes to any point in the United States, may be had on
application
For rates df passage and freight and all oilier informa-
;ion apply at the Company’s Offices, 15 Bridge-Street.
FREDK. W. JACKSON, Manager,
Medical
MOs, 'c
V i,
fl
>•
Ik
r.
j
/ 1 \\;
• /, t PJ^jOS,
>y
»\W
manly Purity and Beauty
No longue nor pen can uu justice to the esteem
In which the Cuticura Remedies are held by the
thousands upon thousands whose lives have been
made happy by the cure of agonizing, humiliating,
itching, scaly and pimply diseases of the skin,
scalp, and blood, with loss of hair.
Cuticura, the groat Skin Cure, and Cuticura
Boa?, an exquisite Skin Bcautifler, prepared from
it, externally, and Cuticura Resolvent, the new
Blood Purifier, internally, euro every form of skin
and biood disease, from pimples to scrofula.
Having been a sufferer for two years and a half
from a disease caused by a bruise on the leg, and
having boon cured by the Cuticura Remedies
when all other methods and remedies failed, I
deem it my duty to recommend them. I visited
Hot Springs to no avail, and tried several doctors
without success, and at last our principal druggist,
Mr. John P. Finlay (to whom I shall ever feel
grateful), spoke to me about Cuticura, and I con-
sented to give them a trial, with the result that I
am perfectly cured. There is now no sore about
me. I think I can show the largest surface where
my sufferings sprang from of any one in the State.
ALEXANDER BEACH, Greenville, Miss.
Sold everywhere. Brice, Cuticura, 50c. ; Soap,
25c. ; Resolvent, $l. Prepared by the Potter
Drug and Chemical Co., Boston, Mass.
Send for “ How to Cure Skin Diseases,” 64
pages, 50 illustrations, and 100 testimonials.
PI
I PLUS, blackheads, red, rough, chapped and
oily skin prevented by Cuticuka Soap,
If I had known of the Cuticura Remedies
twenty-eight years ago, it would have saved me
$200.00 (two hundred dollars) and an immense
amount of suffering. My disease (Psoriasis) com-
menced on my head in a spot not larger than a cent.
It spread rapidly all over my body and got under
my nails. The scales would drop off of me all the
time, and my suffering was endless and without
relief. One thousand dollars would not tempt mo
to have this disease over again. lam a poor man,
but feel rich to be relieved of what some of the
doctors said was leprosy, some ringworm, pso-
riasis, etc. I took . . . and . . . Sarsaparillas over
one year and a half, but no cure. I went to two or
three doctors, and no cure. I cannot praise the
Cuticura Remedies too much. They have made
my skin as clear and free from scales as a baby’s.
All I used of them was three boxes of Cuticura,
and three bottles of Cuticura Resolvent, and
two cakes of Cuticura Soap. If you had been
here and said you would have cured me for $200.00,
you would have had the money. I looked like the
picture in your book of Psoriasis (picture number
two, “ How to Cure Skin Diseases ”), but now I am
as clear as any person ever was. Through for.ee of
habit I rub my hands over my arms and legs to
scratch once in a while, but to no purpose. I am
all well. I scratched twenty-eight years, and it
got to be a kind of second nature to me. I thank
you a thousand times. Any one who reads this
may write to me and I will answer it.
DENNIS DOWNING-, Waterbury, Yt.
HANDS
Soft, white, and free from chaps and
redness, by using Cuticura Soap.
Address: R. TOWNS & CO., SYDNEY, N.S.W.
How Furnishing a House Costs Nothing in the End!
GET Two Respectable Boarders when you take rip house, and the cost of furnishing it very
thoroughly, and throughout, too, at LAWLER’S will come back to you in about five months.
In a country where rents are so high as in New South Wales, something has to be done by the
housekeeper of LIMITED MEANS to make boths ends meet.
STUDY WHAT LAWLER & SONS,
—OF—
-608, 610, 612 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
CAN DO FOR YOU TO HELP YOU ALONG.
This applies to Town or Country Purchasers.
The undermentioned articles for the fitting out and furnishing of a snug and comfortable home are
compiled with a view to a housekeeper taking in two boarders immediately after furnishing,
NOTHING OMITTED! EVERYTHING GOOD!
For £35. THIS ASTONISHING REVELATION. For £35.
And how soon “a couple” can put it together if they mean business.
THIS £35 LIST of Lawler’s will enable one and all to judge of the value submitted in the
Furnishing Department of (he Emporium, from which Lawler’s are eliminating completely at sacrifice
rates. The Boots, Clothing and Drapery Departments, as all Sydney pretty well knows by this. A
Clearance intended for the further development of the Furnishing Business with which our name has
- for 30 years been so closely connected.
Country customers can have the “ Illustrated Furnishing Guide ” posted free upon application.
THE HOME —008, 010, 012 GEORGE-STREET—TURN-OUT FOR £35.
KITCHEN, &c.
Breakfast Service, of 44 pieces
(nice pattern)
Dinner Service, of 50 pieces
(nice pattern)
Meat Safe
Dozen Knives, g Dozen Forks
| Dozen Tablespoons, \ Dozen Teaspoons
1 Cruet and 2 Salt Cellars
4 Saucepans, 1 Boiler
1 Kettle, 1 Fryingpan, 1 Griddle
Set Pudding Bowls and Pie Dishes
Kitchen Dresser with Drawers
Set Blacking Brushes, 1 Clothes Brush
1 Scrub Brush, 1 Black Lead Brush
Bannister Brush
1 Strong Fibre Door Mat
BEST BEDROOM (Married Couple)—
Full-sized Double Bedstead, half-tester,
strong, and nicely ornamented
Strong Wire-Spring Mattress
Pure Woollen Flock Mattress
Bolster and two Java Kapok Pillows
4 Pillow Slips
2 Pairs Sheets
2 Pairs Blankets
2 White Counterpanes
Set Mosquito Curtains
Set Painted Toilet Ware, full number of pieces
Hair Brush, Cumb
Tooth Brush, Nail Brush
Large 7-drawer Chest of Drawers
Toilet Cover, 2 cane-seat Chairs
Washstand, neat and well-made, with Towel-
rail attached
Toilet Table and good-sized Toilet Glass
2 Toilet Covers
1 Pair White Lace Curtains
1 Carpet Square
i Dozen Towels.
DIMM 1 - BOOM AND SITTING - ROOM
COMBINED.
Large Dining Table, set 6
White Tablecloth
Coloured ditto
5 dozen Napkins
Oilcloth for Moor
6 Austrian Cane-seat Chairs
1 Pair White Lace Curtains
1 Strong well Upholstered Couch
1 Hearthrug
I. Ash Tray
I Serviceable and Nice Clock
<3 Glasses
6 Cups and Saucers
12 Plates and 3 Dishes
THE BED-ROOM FOR TWO BOARDERS.
2 Bedsteads, half-testers, single sizes 2 Wove-wire Mattresses, 2 good Wool-flock do,, the Bolsters
and Kapok Pillows for same, 2 Pillow Slips, 2 pairs Sheets, 2 pairs Blankets, 2 White Quilts, 2 Matting
Bedside Slips, 3 Hair Brushes, 2 Combs, 2 Nail Brushes, 2 Tooth Brushes, 1 pair Lace Curtains, Wash
stand with Toilet Ware, Toilet Table and Glass for same, 2 Toilet Covers.
3LAWLER cSs SOaTS
POINT WITH PRIDE TO THE ABOVE £35 CASH LIST.
Companies.
The British and New .South Wales Investment
and financial Co., Limited.
Incorporated under the Companies’ Act, 1874.
Capital, £250,000.
Sydney Office: 246 PITT STREET.
-DILLS DISCOUNTED and Immediate Advances granted
LJ Daily. Country communications promptly attended
to. The following Rates of Interest are allowed for Fixed
Deposits:—
3 Years 10 per cent.
12 Months 9 per cent.
C Months 8 per cent.
3 Months 7 per cent.
With a Guaranteed Bonus on Renewals of Twelve Months
and over.
By order of the Board.
' W. M‘DONALD, Manager.
Cite’ Life Assurance Company,
LIMITED.
Capital ... ... £ 200,000.
Head Office:
21 Castlereagh St, Sydney,
With Branches and Agencies throughout the Colonies.
Wew Business r
1887 There were issued 19,557 Policies.
1888 „ „ 34,984 „
1889 „ „ „ 57,322
These figures show the wonderful progress of the
Company and the high esteem placed upon its
liberal dealings by the public.
CLAIMS PAID
Immediately on Proof of Death
JAMES P. G ARYAN, 1
WM. ALEX. SMITH, f
Managing' Director.
Secretary.
SMOKE NOTHING BUT
PIPES.
GBD
PIPES.
the best in the world.
Wholesale Agents i
JULIUS GOLDSCHMIDT & CO.,
331 Clarence Street.
First Prizc-MELBOURNE EXHIBITION.


Government Advertisements.
Department of Public Works,
Sydney, May 14, 1890.
mENDEHS FOR PUBLIC WORKS AND
X SUPPLIES.
For Conditions, see Government Gazette.
TENDERS for the Works, &o., specified below
will be received at this Department until 11 o'clock
a.m. on the dates mentioned.
WEDNESDAY, MAY 28.
Repairs, &c., at Lighthouse, Crowdy Head.
Construction of Landing Stage at Menindie, and
Supply of Crane for service thereon (time
extended)
Removal of Rocks, &c., Port Macquarie
Engines for Sand Pump Dredgers, Nos. 4 and ij
Repairs, &c., of Lighthouse, Newcastle (fresh
tenders)
Fixing, &c., Turret Clock, Coast Hotpital, Little
Bay
Drainage of Orange, Kite street to Lord’s-plan,'
(fresh tenders)
Removal, of Three Government Goal Staiths,
Newcastle
Wharfs, Cockle Creek, Brisbane Water (fresh
tenders)
Erection of Workman’s Cottage, Walka, Hunter
River District Water Supply (fresh tenders)
Erection of Engine and Boiler House, North
Shore Water Supply (time extended.)
WEDNESDAY, JUNE 11.
Bridge over Bega Ri ver, at Tarraganda
Erection of Police Barracks, Tingha
Bridge, Curban Creek, road Dubbo to Coonamble
Erection of Post and Telegraph Office, Kogarah
Erection of Post and Telegraph Office, Marrick-
ville
Supply, &c., Turret Clock, &c., Court House,
Wollongong
Bridge, Gilargambone Greek, road Dubbo to
Coonamble.
WEDNESDAY, JUNE 25.
Bridge over the Murray River, at Corowa— Con-
tract No. 1—Supply of Ironwork. Contract
No. 2—Erection of Iron Bridge
WEDNESDAY, JULY 9.
Works, Nyi
Bail
rigan-Cobai
way
Plans, &c., to be seen at
the office of Engineer-in-
Chief, Railway Construc-
tion Branch, Phillip-
street, after May 2b.
WEDNESDAY, JULY If*.
Works, Culcairn-Oorowa Railway (Plans, &c.,
see above.)
WEDNESDAY, JULY 23.
Works, Kiama-Ndwra Railway (Plans, &c., see
above.)
WEDNESDAY, AUGUST (5.
Bridge, Hunter River at Aberdeen —Contract
No. 1— Manufacture of Ironwork, &c. Con-
tract No. 2—Erection of Bridge
WEDNESDAY, AUGUST 20.
Bridge, Darling River at Wentworth—Contract
No. 1-Manufacture, &c., Steel Lift Span on
Iron Piers. Contract No. 2 Erection of
Lift Span, &c., &c.
WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 15.
Manufacture and- Supply of 48-inch Wrought-
iron Water Pipes, special castings, &c. —Con-
tract No. 72, Sydney Water Supply. (Dupli-
cation of Pipe Line, Potts-Hill to Sydney)
Manufacture and Supply of 48-inch Cast-iron
Water Pipes, special castings, &c. —Contract
No. 73, Sydney Water Supply, (Duplication
of Pipe Line, Potts Hill to Sydney.)
BRUCE SMITH,
General Post Office,
Sydney, 12th May, 1890.
ATTENTION is directed to Gazette Notice
inviting TENDERS for the CONVEY-
ANCE of MAILS between Uralla and Melrose;
Temora and Morangarell; Nimitybelle and Bobun-
darah ; Kempsey and Boat Harbour, with a
branch mail between Macksville and Nambueca
Heads.
Tenders will be received tip to the 4th June
next, and must be addressed to the Secretary to
the Post Office, Sydney.
DANIEL O'CONNOR.
“T.M.T.
“ Home for the Aged Poor,
“ Parkfield-avenue, Birkenhead.
“ The Little Sisters of the Poor have much
pleasure in bearing their testimony as to the
efficacy of Allcock’s Porous Plasters. They have
seen great benefit derived from them on account
of the relief they so quickly give the sufferer.
They find thorn a very soothing remedy for all
sorts of pains;—Dec. 24, 1888.”
The Rev. Mark Guv Pearse says:—“l find
them a very breastplate against colds and coughs.”
Mrs. Henry Ward Beecher (widow of the
celebrated preacher) says :—“I have found them
a genuine relief for most of the aches and pains
which flesh is heir to.”
George Agustus Sala says, referring to an
attack of bronchitis and asthma he had:—“One
on the chest and another between the shoulder
blades soon set me right again.”
A. Marvellous nem.ec3.y-
The approved External Remedy of the aye.
ALLCOCK’S POROUS PLASTERS.
Lumbago, Sciatica, Rheumatism, Bronchitis.
Asthma, and all affections of the throat and
lungs; also in Pains, Sprains, and Strains of
every description, and of great efficacy in Indi-
gestion, if worn over the right side of the pit ot
the stomach, changing them every ten days.
A Word of Caution.
When you ask for a Porous Plaster, see you get
Allcock’s ; let no explanation or solicitation
INDUCE YOU TO ACCEPT A SUBSTITUTE.
Sold by all Chemists, in various sizes, from 1/14
to 22/(1. '
In Siberia, 1890.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
They said ; “ The man must go.”
A weary knot of fainting women-folk,
Faint crushed, and sinking ’neath their load of
woe,
Goaded with ruthless taunt or cruel blow,
Life’s hopes all strangled by Oppression’s yoke,
What power lay in these faces set and wan ?
Yet list-—from lip to lip the whisper ran,
Ran with a gathering murmur strong and low ;
“ The man shall go. ”
What was he? Nothing—Might’s dark instru-
ment
For woe—no more. But this to them meant all,
These strong-souled women-rnartyrs who had lent
Their lives, their youth, their cherished loves—all
spent
In effort to make Might’s chief stronghold fall.
He, the embodied emblem of brute force,
Had goaded them to madness ; but one course
Lay open ; they, with hatred long inpent,
Decreed his banishment.
What roused them ? Only this: One bitter morn
A tender woman dragged from pallet-bed ;
Dragged by rough soldier hands, and stripped and
torn
With ribald soldier jest and brutal scorn.
What matter ? There had been no warm blood
shed,
No nameless outrage. What were woman’s cries?
Sounds easy silenced. Yet the threats arise ;
Better for them if they had ne’er been born.
We pill avenge that morn.
The means ? Great God ! At hand
They found them. In their vitals. Only one
Last pang their tyrants grudged them : Death*
whose wand
Brings rest xxnto the restless ; Death’s cold hand
They must not woo. For Death tells tales, and
none
Will deem the murdered happy. So these same
Long-toi’tured women swore to sear the name
Of their foul tyrant with the murder-brand —
“Wc starve.'"’ So pledged the baxxd.
The Hunger-strike—the bond-in-death,
The sacrament of gasping bx-eath,
Of vulture-vitals, burning brain,
Dry lips from which the life-drops drain,
Hot eyeballs in the sockets sunk,
Parched skin upon the bare bones shrunk,
A shrivelled frame, grown gaunt and grim,
A glazing eye, grown weak and dim,
A tottering step, a pulse on fire,
A thi’obbing, shudd’ring, fierce desire
For meat, bread, blood—like pangs to these
Have brought wild men upon their knees,
Taught gentle souls to seize the knife
And madly, with a brother’s life,
Make loathsome nxeal —nay, rumours speak
Of tender mothers, waste and weak,
With hearts so starved that, dried and dead
To Imman sense, they took for bread
The nurseling at their withered breast—
Twere sacrilege to speak the rest.
Yet these faint women, strong of soul,
Turned dumbly from the daily dole
Pressed on them by a tyrant’s care—
Vile food, in sooth, ye.t tempting fare
To starving stomachs—
Leaden hours
Drag blindly, marking off the powers
Of martyr-spirits ; hours are days,
Whose throbbing, quivering pulses craze
The maddened brain ; and days are weeks,
Yet still the hollowed eye and cheeks ;
The burnt, dried skin alone bespeaks
Th e secret anguish ;
Till at last
The piercing agony is passed,
Till wrenching, gnawing throe grows numb,
Till shrinking, wailing nerve is dumb,
Till over-balanced thought and brain
Live o’er the happy past again.
Across the thin and freezing air
Float Mem’ry’s visions, sweet and fair.
Ere Hope had paled before Despair.
Vision of gleaming, courtly ball
Where lightsome foot and laughter fall
.Adown the glamour of the hall;
Of princely lover, on whose tongue
In tender, ’passioned rhythm rung
The old, old story, ever-young ;
Of stately home on Tartar plain,
And fleeting steeds with tossing mane,
Foaming, the while they champ the chain ;
Of humbler home, where mother’s love,
Brooding and tender as a dove,
Prays to the guardian saints above ;
Of student life, with earnest aim,
Wherinto, sudden, leaps tlxe flame
Whex-eby the patriot signs his name;
Of midnight meetings, secret, still,
Where hearts were consecrate, and will,
To save their country, die, or kill.
This was their past—so near, so near,
What echo came therefrom, what cheer ?
W hat power had dragged them thence—and here ?
Here ?,—God ! —The pangs revive, the light
Of that dread present blinds their sight—
Ah, well, the end is well-nigh won,
Death scarce can tarry :
Nay, ’tis done.
A sudden whisper steals along,
Thrilling with subtle joy that throng :
“ The man doth go ; our task is o’er.”
It lasted eighteen days—-no more;
But eighteen days when bite nor sup
Was tasted ; so power yielded up
Her tyranny to Weakness.
Ay,
Yon deem their patience folly, say
Their end was small and worthless? You
Have had a sister pure and true,
A mother, music-toned and mild,
Or, dearer still, a daughter-child ?
These, too, had dear ones left to toil,
With Freedom’s seed on Russian soil ;
Sisters, whose hand had clasped their hand,
Young daughters trained to join the band
Of Truth’s Iconoclasts ; some day
They, too, must tread the frozen way,
Must know Siberia’s prison gloom,
Languish within a prison tomb
’Mid sickening horrors, bear each pang
In patient dignity, the fang
Of dirt and hunger, or the low
Brute word and jest—but outrage—No ?
For this, for them, was borne that woe,
For them that day was won.
Won? Lo,
Fiend subtleties are cruel; go
To lower hell for polished craft
As that who barbed the poisoned shaft
Borne with the words, “Ye are deceived !”
At first the truth was disbelieved ;
Then when the hated form was seen
They set their teeth and vowed.
Again—
The fight was started—silent pain
’Gainst violent power; for eight long days
This second struggle; then the word
Is given “he shall go.” They heard
And trembled. Was it true ? In sooth
Their tyrants knew not simple truth,
But lied, to their damnation.
Now
War to the end ! Weak nerves are steel
Whetted to pierce a tyrant heel;
And ruling Might wears iron bands
To nerve the grip of its fierce hands ;
Never was sadder combat known
Than this, where silence or deep moan
Met reckless curse from hearts of stone.
Each vowed to win ; and one had Power,
And one had Patience. Whose the hour
Of victory ? Dear pity ! Here
Were women, wasted to the mere
Semblance of life and sworn to die.
While there—-were men with bloodshot eye
And raging fury, sworn to make
These pale ghosts live; so racking pain
Of death was met by racking pain
Of enforced life. The hideous tale
No pen dare word in full. Men pale
At thought of all that underlies
The record. Dying women’s cries ;
Women who vainly courted death
While brutal hands fanned back their breath.
The end de’ays : yet twenty-one
Long nightmare days are come and gone—
Days spent in Hell. But two alone
Of all those women now can stand
On tottering feet; and 10, their grand
Self-martyrdom but comes to this —
That they are mastered. Serpent hiss
Is not more curdling than that thought,
Their deadly purpose still unwrought,
Their suffering mocked at! Of those twain
One plans a deed ; her eager brain
Sees one road to salvation, through
A victim’s blood. Strong heart and true
She marks herself for sacrifice.
“ One death may save the rest,” she cries,
“ And win the goal.” Then silently
She lifts her burden —patiently
To climb her Calvary. A word
Was brought the Governor, which stirred
His eagerness—He? Wanted? Well,
This rebel must have news to tell
Of late submission; and in haste
He stands before that woman, waste
In limb and visage, strong in glance;
He, low and fleshly, waits parlance
And dreams of chains fresh riveted.
She struck him !
Christ when gibbeted
On cross had not a purer aim
Than this poor woman’s heart could claim
The while she dealt that blow. She dealt
Her life with it, and only felt
Her people’s freedom looming in
The distant future ; that to win
She gave herself to death.
But Death were merciful, and wolves
Know naught of mercy: she should have her
meed ;
She courted all the martyr’s fate involves,
Then let her gather up her high resolves,
For she should win her martyrdom indeed ;
One hundred lashes —neither more nor less ;
One hundred lashes. There is no redress;
Rebellion from all human claims absolves,
All human ties dissolves.
One hundred lashes ! She who faced the grave,
Before this torture feels her spirits shrink.
One hundred lashes. Stoutest heart and brave
Might faint appalled—and there is none to save
This wasted woman, trembling on the brink
Of death’s dark valley. With her feeble frame
The hardened prison-surgeon brands the name
Of murder on the sentence ; Let him rave!
Vengeance its orders gave.
• • • • •
Hush ! hush ! It is the murder day,
See Holy Russia armed to slay
One feeble woman—in that hour
Did no chill spectre haunt the Power
Pointing with finger gaunt its doom ?
The murder-day. From living tomb
She passes with her tottering gait—
Passes from out the prison gate—
To that sole freedom men afford.
Men ! those who saw that sight abhorred,
The brawny arms, the knotted thong,
The sullen, low-browed, stolid throng,
The pale, weak victim with a light
Upon heFbrow—who saw that sight
And raised no weapon, raised no cry,
They lost their manhood—Pass them by.
She stands alone amid that crowd,
Alone, untended, calm and proud ;
An iron patience in her face,
And in her smile a bitter grace—
The smile of one who seeks in vain
Some tender pity for her pain.
’Twas her Gethsemane, and 10,
The woman-Christ there learnt to know
The loneliness of human woe.
The scourge is raised, her flesh is bare,
Her woman’s flesh, so soft and fair,
A hissing sound flies through the air,
A flashing thought flies through her brain
E’en while awaiting that wild pain ;
The memory of tones of love,
Of lingering sweet caress, unwove
With tender word Good God ! love’s kiss
Was prelude to such shame as this,
The form that thrilled beneath his touch
Must blench and quiver in the clutch
Of fiends ; the heart that throbbed
One shriek
On shrinking air—thus tyrants wreak
Vengeance upon the helpless ; blood
Spurts on the ground, a clotted flood.
That quivering, tender woman’s back
The sinewy seourgers hew and hack,
Leave vivid scars in tangled mesh,
Slice living strips of dripping flesh;
The scourge’s sick’ning monotone
Draws forth at times a shuddering moan.
Mother of God ! What pangs are these ?
Once, in her far-off days of ease,
She suffered like; e’en then as now,
Blanched, wrenched and tortured with each throe,
She dreamed that Earth was Hell below.
But, ah ! th’ anirelic after-calm
Falling in tender life-long balm,
The brooding joy, the half-numb sense
Of suffering’s holiest recompense,
When pulse and nerve and entrail torn
Throb to the words ; A child is born.
And these were infants once ! A wild
Hope seizes on her—through the child—
To rouse the man and loose his fangs
By calling on his mother’s pangs.
The hope, scarce born, dies in her breast
These had no mothers. Savage beasts
Suckled them into fierceness ; vain
To ask their pity for her pain,
She can but bear it -sudden came,
Amid the torture and the shame,
A gladsome dream; each maddening blow
That tore her flesh was as the throe
Of all the nations’ labour ; she
Had won a fresh maternity,
That larger motherhood, when Earth
1 folds revel over Freedom’s birth
And cradles giants, born to tear
The tiger-tyrant from his lair
And fling him down the ravine ; yea,
Anguish like her’s proclaimed the day
When despots pale on reeling throne
And despotism’s heirs atone
Unto their victims’ childi’en ; when
Women bring forth, not slaves, but men.
So be it. Let them wreak their worst;
Nor piteous sob nor cry should burst
From her set lips; her ebbing life,
Mastered in the unequal strife,
Net shares the world’s great travail and
Peoples with freemen all the land ;
Ay, let them do their worst.
She kept
Her patient silence; sickness crept
On strong-limbed men, all used to deed
Of horror ; scourge-thongs reek and bleed
The while they flay her —still no sign,
No murmur, e’en dull brutes repine
And weary, though they dare not shirk,
Meting out, stroke by stroke, their work.
’Tis o'er.
One hundred lashes. ’Mid the gore
There lies an undistinguished mass—
N ot woman, not yet corpse, alas !
They take it up, a nameless thing
W ith so much life, just flickering,
As knows of some all-mastering pain;
Knows, too, of some dim purpose, lain
Aside, but cherished, not yet won
But suffered for, and therefore done.
Two days the soul clung, by a thread,
Unto that battered mass—then fled
To Freedom.
When her gaolers carao
To view their work, a newer shame
Awaited them : within that cell
Three other corpses lay, to tell
< )f woe past bearing.
And beyond,
In the men’s quarters, there the bond
Of death clung, strong and pitiful,
While gaoler hands, less merciful,
Tortured those back to life who sought
The ease that Death’s own torture brought.
And this was all ? Poor fools, to risk so much
And gain so little. Even so, wise friend,
’Tis fools like these redeem the world, not such
As thou and I who bargain over-much
And deem reward an all-sufficient end.
These pass. Their seed remains; its branch and
root
Are spreading outwards : the slow ripening fruit
Shall feed the nations, but at tyrant’s touch
Breathe poison. Let them crouch.
Unto what end ? Behold the spectre rise,
Crimson and gaunt, from where the ground is
stained
With human blood ! It comes, with haunting eyes,
The despot sees it from his throne and cries
In pallid fear for that his power has waned.
He shrinks behind his shields, the dungeon grim,
The scourge, the rack, but naught availeth him.
On, on, with rushing wing, the spectre flies,
While lightnings fork the skies.
On, on, and lo ! its crimson flag unfurled,
Round which the nations gather with a shout
Whereof the mighty echoes shake the world ;
Thrones totter, superstition’s priests are hurled
Adown their altar-steps, and all about
The peoples falls a halo of white light.
Unto what end ? From out the coming night
Bid forth thy nameless ghost, to view the world
Where laugh thy children’s children.
ROSE DE BOHEME.
Fifty-six men were killed during the con-
struction of the Forth Bridge. An average of £7O!
was paid to each of the bereaved families.
It was Stipendiary Call, of Melbourne, who
expressed great surprise when a police constable
told him he had been two months in the force and
had not yet got a watch.
Dear Bulletin, —In a certain western
township a fair but frail young woman was once
fined £5 for being drunk arid disorderly and using
obscene language. A gentleman in court felt great
pity for the poor girl, and, speaking “financially ”
to a few others, said, “She’s a good girl, is
Emily ; pity for her to go to jail—; just before the
races, too.” The gentleman is now a J.P. ; but
that’s nothing. They get there just the same.—
Bar Blox.
Idle Pall Mall Gazette is a conspicuous
instance of a bungled newspaper. Greenwood
worked it up in support of Disraeli, but when
Dizzy fell, the proprietors called upon Greenwood
to face right about, which he gallantly refused to
do, wherefore Morley made a mull of the editor-
ship, and then Stead came in. He has failed, too.
The paper is now bottom side up. The old London
Morning Chronicle went bung because the
proprietors sold it to Napoleon 111. And why
has the Times bust up ?
Melbourne Age takes to pieces the political
mechanism of Sir Henry Parke's in relation to the
Federation question : “ Altogether, in the simple
matter of bringing forward these really formal
resolutions before the Parliament of N.S. Wales,
Sir Henry Parkes has placed himself in the worst
of lights, He has shown himself incapable of
forgetting personal animosities in face of a great
national demand on his patriotism.. He has
irritated an important party in N. S. Wale*, and
has gone out of his way to stir up intercolonial
bad feeling; and, in acting thus, he deliberately
endangers the Federal scheme."
Six harmless and decrepit old lunatics
have been turned adrift by the New Zealand
Government. Their contention is that the paupers
are suffering from “ senile decay,” that forty other
patients in the Avondale Asylum are similarly
afflicted, and that there is no room for them.
Accordingly, they were driven to the Charitable
Aid Board offices and dumped down on the foot-
path. Refused admittance, they were transferred
to_ the Police Court, jabbering, sniggering and
drivelling They werethen remanded and locked up.
Eventually they were taken care ofrby the Salva-
tion Army—which now seems to be&bout the only
church game to publicly extend its hand to the
shabby man down on his luck or just out of gaol.
Mrs. Gusher: “Won’t it be lovely to
have harps and wings forever?” Mr, G, ; “i
don’t think so. I expect we won’t be there a week
before you’ll want my wings to stick in your
halo.” ■
Ex.
Old-fashioned Jewellery modernised to perfection. De-
signs free. Dajims and C'o., King-street Arcade.
The United States is a nation of traders. Two-
thirds of the business men of the Republic use
Estkrbkook’s “Falcon” Pen. Samples free at
all Stationers.


'S COCOA
THE BEST
BEVERAGE
FOR
CHILDREN
Absolutely fure.
■
m
•r.
*
Iff,.#
S'
■»-
\
:\r
►DM
/
■■
i
*BK
1
iVV.r..v
.-•-T. ■:;.
ns=ij*Ett^s , r r -■
CADBURY'S COCOA is closely allied to
milk in the large proportion of flesh-forming and I
strength-sustaining elements that it contains. It is pre-
pared on the principle of excluding the superabundance
of fatty indigestible matter with which Cocoa abounds
supplying a refined thin infusion of absolutely pure
Cocoa, exhilarating and refreshing, for Breakfast, Lun-
cheon, Tea or Supper, giving staying power and im-
parting new life and vigour to growing children, and
those of delicate constitutions.
“Kuk-kuk-kuk-kuk-Crawshay-not
Kuk-kuk-Crotchet.”
Dear Bulletin, —Your delightful narrative of
“A Queensland Whist Party” revives in my
mind some personal knowledge of that same Craw-
shay, whose bad whist evoked classical language
from a Queensland Minister of the Crown on the
occasion you tell of. Crawshay has since “ struck
it hot,’’and he is welcome to his luck, for he was
a whole-souled, devil-may-care fellow. He seems
to have taken the objurgations of the Minister in
good part, which fact can only be accounted for to
my mind by the supposition that Crawshay re-
spected the other’s age—for he was a bit hot-
tempered. When I knew him—about 1873 —he
had purchased Murillo Station (or some interest
in it) from Joshua Peter Bell, and was going the
pace on remittances from his uncle in Wales—
“Crawshay, the Iron King.” Now our particular
Crawshay is himself the “Iron King,” hav-
ing succeeded to his uncle’s pile. “ Why
don’t you get married ?” I used to say to
Crawshay at that time. “Not such a kok-
kok-kok-kok-ko-koufounded idiot ! ” he would
answer ; “ Pm not gug-gug-gug-going to bo kuk-
kuk-eut off with a shilling.” (You will perceive
that Crawshay had an orchestral impediment in
his speech.) It appears that Uncle Crawshay’s son
had married against his father’s wishes and been
cut off as aforesaid, while our Crawshay had been
publicly made heir and used to get remittances in
regular lumps of £5OO at a time. To see Crawshay
and a mad Scotchman who used to chaw glass in
his Bacchanalian moods, get on the burst together
in Dalby township was a complete phantasmagoria
in itself. Crawshay was deasly fond of horseflesh.
He could ride anything and loved to master a
buckjumper. For myself, I never could get a sure
seat on any native horse, and often has Crawshay
yelled out to me, “ Dud-dud-don’t stick
your knees into the pup-pup-pup-pad; ride by
bub-bub-bub-bub-balanoe, like I do.” But I
never could. He loved a horse that was as un-
even and rapid in its movements'as he was in his
speech. This was his joke:—“l’m a beb-beb-
heb-beggar to stu-tut-tut-tutter, and it’s a beb-
heb-beggar to bub-bub-buck!” I was present
when he purchased that moke. It was a rough,
third-rate station-horse —an ornery thirty-bob
animal. It had been turned out to grass because
it was no good, and was for six months on Jim-
hour station “filling out.'’ One day, when
Crawshay happened to be there, and some of his
horses were being run in for him, this scrubber
was yarded with them. It was “flash,” and it
looked well with its bush-fed coat on. A black-
fellow saddled it in order to ride out for some
other wanted horses. The darkey was no
sooner in the saddle than he was out of it.
Crawshay rushed excitedly into the yard, caught
the horse, jumped on its back, and was
indantcr landed on his own. Foaming with ex-
citement and a sense of injury, he “ splodged ”
out both hands theatrically, and yelled (at nobody
in particular) ; “Th-th-th-that wasn’t fair ; was it,
now? I wasn’t on the beb-beb-beb-beb-beggar’s
back at all. Bet-bet-bet-bet bet-bet you fif-fif-fifty
pup-pounds I ride him down quiet.” Nobody
objected. The horse being again caught, and held
by one man while another placed his hands over
the animal’s eyes, Crawshay mounted, and, being
squarely in the saddle, sang out :“ Leggo !” A
scattering of onlookers and an excited circus per-
formance followed. “ No. 19,” bucking all round
the yard, and Crawshay sitting delightedly in his
jerky seat, too transported to stutter even in his
thinking. After a spell of round-the-ring practice,
he signalled for the panels to be opened, and, like
a bolt from a bow, “No. 19 ” sped with his rider
out upon the Jimbour plains. Then a smart thing
was done. A “knowing one” offered the man
who owned “ No. 19 ” a fiver for the horse. It was
joyfully accepted, the beast not being considered
worth “a note.” An hour elapsed and Craw-
shay returned to the house with “No. 19” con-
quered and reeking with lather. Crawshay was
beaming with elation. “ Puf-fuf-finest horse ever
I rode,” he said; “who owns it?” He was told
that a gentlemen had only just bought it from the'
late owner. Went Crawshay to the “knowing
one ’’ and spake : “ Gug-gug-gug-gug-give yer £lO
for him.” “ Don’t care about selling him ; fancy
him myself; I have an idea of his pedigree, ” &c., &c.
The usual gag followed—the “knowing one”
freezing and Crawshay getting hotter at every
impediment against his purchase. It ended in the
“knowing one” reluctantly parting with his £5
purchase for £64 and a horse to boot !
Crawshay did not shine in society and small
talk. I remember well how he distinguished him-
self at Joshua Peter Bell’s table one evening.
Several visitors were at the station. There were
seated at the dining-table, Mr. and Mrs, J. P,
Bell, Miss C , the then Dalby parson (Mably
or Moberley ; I never could retain hold of the
calendar of the saints), Bob Gray (now one of the
Queensland Railway Commissioners), “Cumkillen-
bar ” Moffat, Crawshay, a friend of his whose
name I forget, and myself. Miss 0 , a bright,
intellectual, and sprightly lady, told a gossipy
anecdote, then current, about some Royal
princess’s marriage. (I am equally loose in my
memory about Royalties.) The story was that
the English princess had been asked what present
she would like to receive from Emperor
William (now in Limbo), of Germany, and
that she replied ; “ Send me Bismarck’s
head on a charger.” Now, Crawshay had
been making himself agreeable to Miss C ,
and she being of the intellectual order of mental
architecture, he doubtless desired to display as
much of his erudition as he could at impromptu
call. So when Miss C had concluded the yarn
he guffawed ; “ Head on a eha-cha-cha-charger !
Hoo-hoo-hoo-hoo-ha ! That’s good—very gug-
gug-good ! Let’s see. It was kuk kuk-kuk-kuk-
King John who first said that, wasn’t it ?” Soon
after that Crawshay passed out of my acquaint-
anceship, and I had forgotten him till reading the
whist story in The Bulletin. He is a millionaire
by heredity, whereas I am only (whether by
heredity or not) —
THE DIPSOMANIAC.
The Broken Hill Proprietary Silver Mine
pays a monthly dividend equalling £40,000.
Nearly six-eighths of this goes into Adelaide.
F. H. Pollock writes sensibly to the Mel-
bourne Press on the stage-children question. He
shows the hollow humbug of the thing, for, while
Violet Ashton is prosecuted for acting intelligently
in “A Man’s Shadow,” the Melbourne streets
abound towards midnight with girls and boys
in rags selling matches, &c., but Constables
Boodlecum and Poodlecum take no heed what-
ever. But then these kids ain’t on the ’orrid
stage. The poor youngsters, without shoes or
stockings, are not swept into the State schools, be-
cause they off end “respectable” parents, the object
of the Education Act being to give gratis instruc-
tion only to the progeny of those able to pay for it.
The Latest Atrocity.
- An Irishman has recently been sentenced (in Ireland,
of course) to three months’ imprisonment for winking at a
pig. A policeman swore he saw the prisoner distinctly
winking at a certain pig belonging to a boycotted man
who was trying to sell the animal. The wink was intended
to prevent the porker’s sale.
Hip, hip, hooray ! with three times three
For England’s mighty Queen,
The greatest monarch, barring none,
The world has ever seen ;
All round the globe her laws prevail,
Although it is so big,
In Ireland, too, they never fail
Where recently they sent to gaol
A Parnellite (ye traitors quail!)
For winking at a pig.
She’s Empress of the golden East
And mistress of the seas,
No potentates or Emperors
Dare at “Her Gracious ’’ sneeze ;
Her latest triumph, though it may
At first appear—what shall we say?—
A leetle infra dig,
Has given the Parnellites a knock !
They’ll never more her feelings shock
By winking at a pig !
When Tory swells for awful crimes
Are wanted —don’t you know—
A kindred feeling makes her kind
And so she lets them go !
Her old Imperial heart is stirred,
She treats them well, upon my word !
Each erring Tory sprig ;
But when a Paddy’s eyelid drops
Her man in blue the rascal cops
For winking at a pig.
Times’ Pig-got as a patron saint
Will soon supplant St. George,
Although the latter dealt in pigs
It’s plain he couldn't forge —
God save the Queen, long may she reign,
By Tory help or Whig—
We’ll never see her like again.
She sent an Irishman to gaol
(The British Lion twirls his tail)
For winking at a pig !
Napier, N.Z.
A. STUART.
The only known instance of a prize-fighter
possessing the least sense of humour was that of
Gunley, an old-time bruiser. Gunley was some-
thing of a runner and cricketer, so he backed him-
self to fight, run and play a one-innings game at
cricket against Gregson, a much larger and cleverer
man with his fists—the winner of two events to
take the money. Gregson merely stipulated that
the fight should come off first, when he intended
to break up his adversary and have a walk-over
for the residue of the match. The ring was
pitched, and a bullet-headed savage, armed with
a borrowed watch, yelled, “Time!” Whereupon
Gunley strolled up to the scratch and fell down,
remarking, “ There, you’ve won that.” He subse-
quently licked Gregson for the remaining items in
their contract, and took the stakes.
The Adelaide folks now complain that
Lady Kintore is “too unassuming.” They can’t
understand a Governor’s wife sitting in a railway
carriage not specially set apart for her.
Adelaide society people read of festivities
at Melbourne and Sydney Government Houses,
but the residence of Lord Kintore is wrapped in a
deep and holy sleep, with ho present signs of
awakening. The only social event during last
week was the prayer-meeting at the local
Y.M.C.A., and even that is becomihg monotonous.
The male and female brick-makers of
Staffordshire have been on strike since December
for an increase of from a penny to twopence a
day. The women moulders, the most skilled
workers, labour from six in the morning to six at
night for a top price of 2s. 6d. for a thousand
bricks with fifty thrown in for “spoils.” Each
brick weighs seven pounds and has to be handled
three times ere finally laid down. That is to say
that in Christian England a woman has to mould
22,050 pounds of clay ere earning Is. 4d.—-for out
of every 30. pence she must give 14 pence to the
female “ page, ” usually a young girl, who carries
tlie moulded bricks to' the kiln. The moulder as
a rule earns (is. Bd. weekly and the “ page ” us. lOd.
Dear Bulletin,—ls it right that human
life should be sacrificed in cold blood for the
benefit of the miserable beings who must have
money, cost what it may? Yet the principle,
devilish as it seems, is at the present time acted
up to on the north-west coast of Australia. It is
a part of that Western Australian pearling-ground
called “The Graveyard !” At this spot the diving
is done in from 19 to 24 fathoms water ; nothing
less than 19. This (as everyone acquainted with
the subject must know) is an extreme depth, even
for the best and hardiest of divers. But “The
Graveyard” is perhaps the richest part of_ the
known shelling-grounds, and so when work is in
full swing it is a very common sight to see a diver
brought up dead—to see Ins dress taken off
in order that one of his countrymen may
literally step into the dead man’s boots! On
some of the boats the black flag is run up so often
that no notice is taken of it, and work goes on
while they have a man whom they can order under
water. One boat-owner lost eight men in about
as many days—but he got a big haul of shell as an
offset! What cares he for the lives of the poor
wretches of divers while his personal gains are
thus added to? He cares not for the coloured
man who earns his profits, and without whom
lie could not take part in the enterprise. To me
this kind of thing resembles murder in the first
degree. I think it is time that some power
stepped in and put a sudden stop to such a cruel
wholesale sacrifice of life. We protect the miner
from the possibilities of death through the careless-
ness or neglect of his masters; why, then, should
we not make it a crime to force divers to work in
a depth of water which means either sudden death
or the lingering illness of a hopeless paralytic ?
Can you imagine anything more callous than to
haul a corpse out of a diving-dress and place a
comrade in it at once, who knows only too well
what has caused death in the first instance, and
the probable fate that awaits him? And, finally
—this as a mere side-issue : Here, in those divers
readiness to go to their death dressed in the
shrouds of the men who have just died —all for
the sake of gain, is a commentary on the non-
deterrent effect exercised by the gallows on those
whom passion or the lust of gain is urging on to
commit murder. — North-West.


• : ,2
Mli
m
m
m
'am.
j
m
i
m>
j
The Story of Another Mutiny.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
H.M.S. St, George, 120 guns, Captain
Harry Eyres, 0.8., lay at anchor inside the'break-
water in Plymouth Sound, on the 9th April, 1854,
nearly ready for sea, and under orders to join Sir
Charles Napier’s fleet in the Baltic. But she was
nearly 200 men short of her complement, aild,
having been recently commissioned at Portsmouth,
was ordered on to Plymouth to await the arrival
there of the Portland frigate, the flagship of
Admiral Moresby, on her way home from the
Pacific station to be paid off. War had been
declared with Russia. Two powerful fleets had
sailed —one for the Baltic, the other for the Black
Sea. The retired, reserve, and coast-guard lists
had been taxed to their utmost limits, and still
men were badly wanted. Over 200 of the crew of
the St. George had been drafted from the old
Crocodile, receiving-ship in the Thames; material
out of which to make sailors, perhaps, but for the
time being a contingent of gaol-birds, dead-beats,
and ’longshore loafers. The balance were good
men, mostly long-service pensioners and coast-
guard, thoroughly at home under the pennant, and
anxious for one more slap at an enemy. No
matter who, so long as he possessed that qualifica-
tion.
The Portland arrived in due course. She
had been put in commission at Devonport three
years before; many of her men had their wives
and families ashore—all had friends. But when
the Port Admiral went on board, and they heard
of the declaration of war for the first time, and
were asked for two hundred volunteers for the
St. George, the whole ship’s company responded.
The draft was soon arranged, and final prepara-
tions for sea nearly completed. Liberty boats
landed watch and watch on alternate nights, but
the “Crocodiles,” or “ Tower mob,” as they were
called, were not allowed on shore. Many of them
would never have been seen again. They growled,
showed signs of insubordination, were black-listed
and “hazed” in various ways, and at length
came the climax.
#■ # #
Towards the close of the first watch, and
in response to the demand of Lieutenant Birt-
whistle, the officer of that watch, a small boy in
the undress of a naval cadet crawled out in a
sleepy condition from under the break of the
poop :
“ Youngster, see what time it is. It’s a long
time since six bells was struck.”
“ Aye, aye, sir,” and the lad disappeared down
the after-companion. After an interval of some
minutes seven bells rang out on the keen night
air, but with a peculiarly irregular stroke ; imme-
diately after which he re-appeared, sprang up the
poop-ladder, and reported :
“The clapper of the bell has vanished, sir ! The
sentry has been forrard looking for it for some
minutes. I struck the bell with the galley-poker.
It is getting on for eight bells now.”
“Very good. Go below and report to the com-
mander. Wake him up if he’s asleep.”
In less than five minutes “ Paddy ” May, as he
was called in the gun-room, was on the poop in
conversation with the officer of the watch. Follow-
ing in rapid succession came the orders to “ Pipe
all hands on deck“ A whip on the foreyard,
and get the armourer’s forge up;” “Send the
armourer aft here.” Then the forge was rigged in
the waist of the ship, the fire lit, and the armourer
and His rriate set to work to fashion a new clapper
for the bell, the ’whole f-'hip’s company of over
eight hundred officers and men looking on with an
air of sleepy wonderment. Not a voice was raised
above a whisper. Everybody knew something was
wrong somewhere, but discipline prevented the
gratification of curiosity. When the clapper was
completed and fixed in position, the order was
given to send the forge below, followed by “Pipe
down all hands except the watch on deck. ’ And
by the time three bells in the middle watch was
struck riot a sign or sound remained to suggest
that the ordinary routine o'f duty had been in any
way disturbed.
* *• #
Immediately after “divisions” on the fol-
lowing morning the gunner walked hurriedly aft
with a savage look on his rugged, seamy features
and reported—“ Eighteen tangent-sights gone out
of the middle deck guns, sir, and no trace of
them.’’ Commander May nodded his head in
acknowledgment of the information, quite as if
he had expected it, and went below. At six bells
in the forenoon watch Captain Eyres came on
deck, and again ail hands were turned up. This
time with repeated injunctions to “Lay aft there,
iheri, lay aft, the Captain has something to say to
you.” Standing on the break df the poop the
voice of the grey-haired old sailor was plainly
audible all over the upper deck :
“ Now, men, listen to what I have to say to you
and act upon it. A mutinous spirit has broken
out on board this ship and shown itself in acts of
blackguardism and defiance. Last night the
clapper of the ship’s bell disappeared. This
morning a number of tangent-sights are missing
from the middle-deck guns. I can tell you where
they are. They are among the beef-bones under the
ship’s keel. You must tell me who put them there.
You ‘ Portlands ’ and you petty officers and sea-
men who came round here in the ship from Ports-
mouth, I leave this in yorir hands. We shorten
in cable to-morrow morning at daylight. In a
fortnight’s time we may be under the guns of
Cronstadt. I want men to fight this ship with,
and I know how to deal with those who are not
men. Master-at-arms, see that the mutineers toe
the line there on the quarter-deck when eight bells
strikes in the afternoon watch. Pipe down !”
* * *
At five minutes to 4 o’clock, 14 men were
marched aft by the master-at-arms, and formed
into line between the companion and the gang-
way ; and before the vibrations of the last stroke
of the bell had ceased, the captain, commander,
and first lieutenant came out of the poop-cabin,
Walking slowly along the line, Captain Eyres
scanned the face of each man as he passed, and,
turning to the other officers, remarked
“ Just what I expected. Not a sailor among
the lot. ‘ Crocodiles ’ every man of them.” Then,
turning to his clerk : ‘ ‘ Mr. Luxrnoore, take the
names of these men and make out warrants for
four dozen for each of them. Bring the warrants
to me for signature as soon as ready. Master-at-
arms, see that the prisoners are securely ironed on
the orlop deck, and place a file of marines on
guard over them.”
* * *
With the Bill of Portland just visible
through the morning haze, the last act in the
mutiny on the St. George was consummated, as the
old line-of-battle ship heeled gently over under all
plain sail and top-gallant stunsails before a fresh
south-westerly breeze. All hands were turned up
to witness punishment at five bells, and breakfast
was a trifle later in the wardroom and gun-room
messes that morning in consequence at the un-
usually long programme that liad to be got
through. It fell far short of the prescribed fifty sis
dozen laishosi,- though, for many of the inert fainted
before half the sentence had been carried out, and
were cast loose from the gratings on the report
of the doctor that they were unable to stand more.
Five of them only took the fall dose, brtt not one
of the fourteen evinced any subsequent desire to
again become mutineers. The man who was said
to have been the worst of-the lot and the leader
was shot near Hango Head, in the Gulf of Fin-
land, a few months afterwards, when away in one
of the ship’s boats engaged in the destruction of
dOast signal stations. Another one I met on board
the Arrow, serving the bow Lancaster gun at the
attack on Kertch in the following year. He had
been a London street hawker, arid at odd times a
thief, before hunger and misery drove hifn oil
board the Crocodile. He was then an A. 8., and
pulled stroke oar in the captain’s gig. The mutiny
in Plymouth Sound, ho said, was one of his “ bad
memories. ”
R.N.
[This is written by an ex-naval officer, who, q,s will be
seen, clings affectionately to the cat. Had that brutal
weapon of irresponsible authority not been abolished in
army and navy at the instance of the democracy', the
figeria man who the other day got five years from a court-
martial for less than saying “ Booh I” could have got fifty'
lashes dn the mere nod of a brutal officer.—Kn. B. j
Mr. Justice Pope Cooper, whose wife has
inherited a fortune, will, it is said, go to Europe
and stay there.
Captain Oldham, R.N., objects to certain
questions put to his first-lieutenant by the court-
martial being answered by that officer. Jack
Muck also objects, as far as he dares, to a good
deal that goes on in the same court, but the latter’s
objection doesn’t amount to much on account of
the “five years ” looming in the distance. More-
over, Jack has got some sort of an addled idea
that, as he has to be tried by his officers, the court
should be composed, or partially composed, of
seamen when a charge of tyranny and abuse of
power is brought against an officer. Jack has a
good deal of sense and reason on his side, too, for
if he happens to be not quite as great an ornament
to society as his master, he is generally His equal
in manly attributes, and, almost invariably his
superior in practical sailorising.
An English journal writes : —■
It is said that if the Federation of the Australasian
colonies should become mi fait accompli, the Queen will
grapple the loyal state to the throne with hooks of steel
by nominating the Marquis of Lome Viceroy, and thus
giving her Australasian subjects the distinction of posses-
sing a Royal Vice-Reine. The appointment would be wise
and popular, for Lord Lome is just the solid, able sort of
man that the practical people over there would appreciate
at his proper value, while the beauty and accomplish-
ments of Princess Louise would compel something like
brilliancy in the vice-regal court.
If such things be true how was it that the Lorries
were such social failures in Canada? —how was it
that, instead of grappling that loyal state with
“ hooks of steel,” they only assisted to widen an
ever-growing breach? Probably such an effort
will be made, as The Bulletin predicted, but
that the influence of the sandy-haired, small-
brained son of a Scottish duke and the cold, pom-
pous, haughty, disappointed daughter of two
commonplace German nobodies can turn away a
nation from the fulfilment of its obvious national
destiny is fudge.
Notice to Artistic and Literary Contributors
Strictly Original matter contributed to Tire Bulletin
(hill he paid for. The Editor will he (/lad tu receive and
Consider contributions as under
1. Original humorous or political matter, illustrated or
otherwise. ( Dra wings 'must be made in clean lines
of Indian ink on white paper or Bristol-hoard.)
Unpublished anecdotes of living celebrities, or people
who ought to be celebrated.
3. Humorous poems (from eight to forty-eight Urns pre-
ferred ).
h. Serious poems, of similar or greater length, especially
those suitable for pictorial illustration.
5. Short Australian or other stories, up (o, say, SOOO
words. About half that length, or even hss, will
he preferred,
Alt Contributions must he Written Legibly, on One
Siafe Only of the paper, and folded, not rolled. The
name and address of the writer must appear, in all
cases, on the MS, itself,,and not merely on an accompany-
ing letter or paper. The Proprietors do not hold them-
selves res/wnsible for Itejecied Contributions; but, if
accompanied by a stamped and addressed envelope or
wrapper, every effort will be made to return them.
The Editor does not undertake to enter into any
correspondence respecting rejected Manuscripts.
A Mississippi paper thus advertised a sow
for sale : “Bold for no fault except that, having
been raised by a preacher, she acquired too great
a partiality for spring chicken to be just agreeable
to the present owner.”
One of The Bulletin’s Melbourne men
has had a chat with James M , who spent 40
years in trade as a professional burglar, and passed
a fortnight on the hulk Success shortly after
Price’s murder. James has been a respectable
man for many years, and is now 84; he can be
seen on the sunny side of Bourke-street any after-
noon. He says that the most noxious man about
Price was “ a beastly little Tasmanian detective ”
he brought with him named P . This man
evidently gave Marcus Clarke some idea of the
sneak, Troke. Dr. Youl advised Price always to
carry loaded pistols, but this official desperado
had such confidence in his invulnerability that'he
laughed it to scorn. The Success men used to go
ashore and work, and only went aboard to sleep.
M—says that Supt. Dwyer, now of Pentridge,
once left the force through Price’s inhumanity.
A Melbourne reporter- —let us call him
Squills—owns to a strange fascination over the
performances of Pattie Browne, because he was
within an ace of. making a frightful mistake
over her once—the kind of thing that happens
at some time to every journalist, like the hay-
fever, or writing a tragedy. Another Batty
Brown, quite different in appearance, came before
the City Police Court, and was said to have been
a stage super. Squills had never seen Pattie on
the stage, to take particular notice, and the
attorney for the defence of the other Patty quite
innocently mixed up the two careers, the conse-
quence being that Squills got a magnificently-
moral paragraph in type. Pattie Browne was
acting that night at the Theatre Royal, in
“ Siberia,” and the sight of a play-bill in the
window of the Royal Mail Hotel was the trifling
circumstance that led Squills to get the magni-
ficent paragraph smashed beforehand.


Great Medical Reform!
Consult (FREE) HERE. RASSMUSSEN, the Celebrated Danish Herbalist
Expert Specialist in all Private Complaints, Barrenness and Nervous Diseases.
S DENMARK
*
%
fj
%
%
\
%
%
I
t\
%
I
&
%
'fe
R
E
s
I
0
R
E
S
L
0
s
T
V
!
T
A
Y
j
0*
j
0^
I#J
w
i
#
’(0
j
Restores'
j
A Guaranteed Cure
for
Nervous Dekility and
Lost Vitality.
225. 6d. per Course.
Smaller Box ss. (Id.
Om.ly Herbalist in Australia
Tlmt has received “Gold Medal” for Great Cures Performed, and is Honourably Mentioned in the “Centennial History of New South Wales
for Great Herbal Discoveries ; and who can prove that he has CURED OVER 20,000 PATIENTS.
Sole Proprietor and Discoverer of the Celebrated
£>EjNri,SA.RK: VITALITY 1 PILLS, Registered
Impure Wood. 225. Gd. per Course ; Smaller Box, ss. 6d.
G-eixtiine Testimonials.
To HERR RASSMUSSEN.— Dear Sir,-This is to certify that you
X'l me ,AHH y° od disease . after many doctors had
tailed. JOHN REYNOLDS, Chappel-street, Leichhardt, Sydney.
To HERR RASSMUSSEN, the celebrated Danish Herbalist.—Dear
Benefactor,—l have much pleasure to inform the public that you
cmea my vv.te of an internal complaint of a very serious nature, after
all the doctors had given her up.—ARCHIBALD MACFARLANE
Eden Cottage, Barney-street, Armidale.
To HERR RASSMUSSEN, Specialist in Nervous Diseases. Dear
•’ ll > 1 hereby thank you for the great cure you performed on me for
a \en complicated nervous affection, and I shall always recommend
you to sufferers from Nervous Debility.—PHlLLlP STEAD, 54 Parra-
matta-road, Annandale, Sydney.
To HERR RASSMUSSEN, Danish Herbalist.—Dear Sir and Bene-
tactor,-It gives me great pleasure to testify to your wonderful skill
in the treatment of Disease. You cured me of a terrible complaint
after the doctors gave me up, and although it is four years since, I am
1 sh . all recommend you to all.—Yours, gratefully, A.
RAMSDETs, Great Western Coffee Palace, Castlereagh-street, Sydney.
T° HERR RASSMUSSEN, Specialist in Nervous Diseases.—Dear
1 hereby certify that I have been under your skilful treatment
for a very obstinate case of nervous debility, and that you cured me
with one course of your Vitality Pills.—D. M‘NEILL, Hornsbv
Junction, N.S.W.
%
Opinions of tlie Press.
0
It is a well-known fact that HERR RASSMUSSEN, the Celebrated
Danish Herbalist, has performed many great cures during the past few
years, as his numerous testimonials will prove.—Sydney Bulletin.
HERR RASSMUSSEN.—We have been shown some excellent Testi-
monials of the great cures performed by Herr Rassmussen, the cele-
brated Danish Hei-balist.— Australian Star.
HERR RASSMUSSEN has now been established in the colonies
for 10 years.— Sunday Times, April 28, 1888.
HERR RASSMUSSEN has become a celebrity in the curing of all
diseases of the nervous system. His name has become a wonder
throughout the Southern Hemisphere. He was presented with a Gold
Medal for some of his miraculous cures.— Balmain Leader, May 12,1888.
HERR RASSMUSSEN.—The remarkable cures which he has effected
are pretty generally known. —Balmain Observer, April 28, 1888.
We are perpetually receiving letters from HERR RASSMUSSEN’S
cured patients requesting us to make known to the public the wonder-
ful medical skill this remarkable man possesses, and he has just been
presented with a Gold Medal from several of his cured patients.
—Sydney Weekly News, May 26, 1887.
Her r Rassmussen’s Herbal Remedies. — (REGISTERED.)
DENMARK \ ITALITV PlLLS.—Guaranteed to cure Nervous Debility, Lost Vitality, Errors of Youth and Despondency. Price, 225. 6d. per full course ; small box, ss. 6d.
DENMARK FEMALE RESTORE!! PlLLS.—Guaranteed to cure all complaints peculiar to Females, Irregularities, and eradicates complaints which cause barrenness,
rnce, zzb. ou. per course; small box, ss. 6d.
LOCK CL RE PILLS. Guaranteed to Cure all diseases of the blood, discharges, sores, and strictures. Price, 225. 6d. per course ; small box, ss. 6d.
CONSULTATION AND ADVICE FREE.
All the above remedies are made of PURE HERBS, and are forwarded unobserved. A valuable treatise on Nervous Debility, Private Complaints, and Barrenness, sent
free, on receipt of 4d stamped addressed envelope. Consultation personally or by post, free. Patients are examined with the aid of the Microscope.
Address : - Herr RASSMUSSEN the Danish Herbalist,
Corner G-orclon-street &; Harlt-road., Paddington ; Sydney.
TRAMS —Take Paddington Tram to Paddington Tram Waiting-room.
j
%
%
‘•Pi
\
%
\
%
%\
w
%
I
%
%/•
R
E
s
T
0
R
E
s
L
0
s
T
V
I
r
A
L
I
T
V
j
pS>
( i
&
ft
j
/
MB*
j
Besik
V
Vitality
A Guaranteed Cure
for
Nervous Debility and
Lost Vitality.
225. 6d. per Course.
Smaller Box ss. 6d.
Book
of Nature.
* imWSp t
SooK of Nature.
BOOK OF NATURE and Illustrated Matri-
monial Guide.— A full and explicit explanation
of the structure and usesrof the organs of life and genera-
tion in man and woman, intended especially for the
married, or those intending to marry, and who conscien-
tiously and honestly desire to inform themselves upon the
intent and nature of marriage and its duties, to which is
added a complete MEDICAL TREATISE upon all diseases
of the generative organs, whether resulting from infection
or sexual excesses and abuse with much other valuable
and highly important information, illustrated with more
than fifty engravings, by M. Lafayette Byrn, M.D. ; price
3/6, post 4/-. The Emits of Philosophy or Private Com-
panion for Married People, post 1/2. Mrs. Besant's Law of
Population, 1/-, post 1/2. Wonderful Song Book, extra
large, 1/6. Aristotle, complete, 3/6, post 4/-. Maria Monk,
1/6, post 1/9. New complete Fortune Teller, 2s. “The
Matron’s Manual or Midwifery,” the book every married
woman needs; price 7/-, posted 7/6. The arts of Box-
ing, Swimming and Gymnastics made easy, enabling
anyone to become an expert boxer or athlete, illustrated
with fifty engravings ; price 1/-. “ Marriage as it was, as
it is, and as it should be,” by Mrs. Besant; 1/-, posted 1/2.
Dr. Foote’s Plain Home Talk, new edition, over 200 illu-
strations; 7/6, post free. “The Labour Movement in
America,” lay Aveling, post free 1/6. Matrimony, or
Phrenology and Physiology applied to the selection of
Congenial Companions for Life, 6d. The Elements of
Social Science,; 3/6, posted 4/-. Nigger Songs, 6d. Henry
George’s Works all at 1/-, posted 1/4. Works of Ingersoll,
Paine, Bradlaugh, Besant, Foote. Send for catalogue.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Radical Book Storks,
16J4 PARK STREET. SYDNEY.
Business Announcements.
HIGHLY NUTHITJVE
Coeoa
MAY BE OBTAINED IN LAHEU-tU lINS UH PAURMS THRnUBHUUTTHF HOLDNY.
COMMERCIAL TRAVELLERS, TOURISTS, Ac.
o
ROYAL hotel, lithgow,
The leading resort for
Commercial Travellers, and Tourists.
The Largest Sample Rooms on the Western Line. Horses and Buggies for Hire
Nothin)i hut the Best Brands of spirits sold over the bar.
Hugh. Wallace. Proprietor. Late of Wallerawaug.
HEALTH for the MILLION !
WATSON’S
Mild, Aperient, Antibilious
Pills, pure!} vegetable
in their composition,
„re particularly recommended to either sex. where a
gentle, but effective aperient is required. These Pills
are invaluable for all complaints of the Stomach and
Liver, speedily removing sick headache, biliousness,
indigestion, etc., and cleansing the
blood of all impurities. To Ladies
these pills will be found invaluable.
One trial is sufficient to prove their vast superiority
over all others. Sold by all Chemists and Storekeepers.
Price Is. per box. Prepared solely by John Watson,
Chemist, George Street, Sydney.
PILLS
—THE-
Electro-Magnetic
Massage Institute,
For the cure of—
Rheumatism Lumbago, Sciatica, Debility,
Gouty and Neuralgic Affections,
Musoulak and Nervous Disorders
All Cases under Medical Supervision. Ladies
attended by specially-trained Nurses.
94
DA RLINGHURST
SYDNEY.
* ROAD,
Attendance: 9to 1 a.m. ; 7 to 10 p.m.
Process Protected by Letters Patent.
lAeacl ? Read ! Read !
“THE BULLETIN’S”
History of Botany Bay,
By Arthur Gayll.
Profusely Illustrated by The Bulletin’s well-
known Artists,
L. HOPKINS and PHIL MAY.
Rrice - One Shilling
I’cr post, Is. 3d.
rpn i] COLONIAL MUTUAL LIFE ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED.
BRANCHES THROUGHOUT THE COLONIES AND THE UNITED KINGDOM.
Policies issued under the Ordixxary, IVEodlflecl Toxxt ine and Diviciend jS vs -, ■, -ms.
COMPANY. LTD.
(Late Gunsler’s Cafe)
175 Pitt Street, Sydney,
WISH their former Patrons and the Public Generally to know that their Saloons have been Entirely Reorganised, and shall be glad if they will giv
their new cusine a trial.
JAMES C- MARQUAND, Manner


Business Announcements.
TURPIN & BRIAN,
Wholesale and Family Grocers,
616 George Street, Sydney,
ARE
REMOVING
To those Spacious Premises formerly occupied
by R. S. TIGHE, Wholesale Grocer,
623 GEORGE STREET
SYDNEY.
LOOK OUT FOR FUTURE ISSUES.
NOTE THE ADDRESS:
623--George Street-623
Brickfield Hill, SYDNEY.
(Two Doors from Lawler’s.)
-THE-
Fresh Food & |ce (X
LIMITED,
HARBOUR STREET,
SYDNEY,
Are evidently determined to go ahead They are
now supplying Customers who take a Quart of
Milk and Over per Day at
THREEPENCE PER QUART!
ITits appears very wonderful , but it is
quite ti~ue.
lar Weekly Accounts.
A. BOWMAN’S
LONDON MADE
Porpoise Hide Boots
Are Reduced from 30s. to 21s.
249 PITT ST., SYDNEY, Near Tattersall’s.
Porpoise Hide Wears Twice as Long
as any other Leather.
They are noted all oyer London,
Birmingham and Liverpool.
LfOXidon Fashions,
AND
Fresh Goods Every Fortnight.
Trade Supplied Wholesale at a Great. Advantage.
'm
yy/c^s
y m/z/y
C
oSS
LOTA
B 5
EST
rnHIS valuable Lotion is guaranteed to cure SWELLING
-I and SANDY BLIGHT, INFLAMED EYES and LIDS,
DIMNESS OF SIGHT, Ac. It will be found very bene-
ficial and cooling to those who have weak eyes, or whose
work compels them to strain their eyes. Highly
recommended by the leading Oculists.
Manufactured only by the Proprietor,
H. A. ROSE
Dispensing and Manufacturing Chemist,
631 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Wholesale by the Proprietor and all Wholesale Houses.
Established IS->S. By Post <»£. Gd.
r Manufacturer of Dr. SOI THAN S GOUT and
* rheumatic pills.
ows
‘■EMBROCATION
I
si
\ H?oio I
'\EVERY n WHERE‘\
%
Business Announcements.
r '
S l]
a
—nr*
KTfS i- 1
plitseiJ
w
y
M
M pvgg
Ssfl B
wwmm
Ba a a
f—l C 3 'Q
4ft
ROBERTS & CO.,
-W HOLESALE-
lmporters* Iron and Machinery Merchants*
hay and ENGINE STREETS SYDNEY,
Head Office: 85 Gracechurch Street, London, E.C.
IMPORTERS OF
Railway & Bridge Contractors’
Plumbers’
Squatters’
Requirements
IN
Great Variety.
IMPORTERS OF
Engineers’ and Blacksmiths'
Couchbuilders’
Mining
AGENTS FOR:
Korting’s Gas Engines— The best and cheapest yet made. Automatic self-governing, thus saving' c sostof gas.
Braddock's Water and Gas Meters and Gas Lamps. Reading Iron Works Universal (Split) Pulley Wheels.
Howe’s Platfonn and Counter Weighing Machines and Weighbridges.
j
Wholeaale Agents Balchin,
Guinness’ Extra Stout,
FIRST QUALITY.
Bass* Pale Ale,
FIRST QUALITY.
Sole Purveyors to the
Colonial & Indian Exhibition,
London,
(By Special Appointment).
Johnston & Co., Sydney.
Ask for Kupper’a Elberfeld Lager Beer
(Specially Brewed for Australia).
ALLAN A. MARSHALL & CO.,
Absolutely Free from Sediment.
Engineers, Coppersmiths, Brass and Bell Founders,
Finishers, Plumbers, Ship & General Smiths,
Gasfittkrs, Art & Mxdiatai. Metal Worker
KOI.M.K SKATES (anj- make) with UIt.VSS or WOODEN WHEELS.
Verity’s Gas Fires, Heaters and Ventilators at greatly Reduced Prices —11,000 Fires already in use
Importers and Manufacturers of Diving Gear, Yacht and Boat Work of every description in
Iron or Brass, Ships’ Single and Double Action Valve Closets, Fire Hydrants, Hose and all appliances
Bon Accord AVorks, 9 Macquarie Place, Sydney.
Federated Squatters
-AND—
Farmers’ Co-Operative Association of Australasia, Limited,
CIRCULAR Q,TJ-A.YT, SYDNEY.
WOOL and PRODUCE BROKERS, STOCK and STATION AGENTS.
Advances Made and Deposits Received at Current Rates. Correspondence Invited.
“ The Male Generative Function in Health and Disease,”
—BY—
AT.TIXR. PATERSON, Mi.D.,
F.R.C.S., Ed. ; M.R.C.S., Eng.
PRICE ... TWO SHILLINGS and SIXPENCE.
: )(
OPINIONS OF THE PRESS;
“ Valuable medical work—the Doctor is a quali-
fied man and speaks with authority.”— Town and
Country Journal.
“Can recommend it as a work written by a
gentleman who has attained a very high status in
his profession.”—Manning River Times.
“It sets forth scientific truths which, in the in-
terests of individuals and society, should be more
generally disseminated.” — Bathurst Free Press.
“ Society would be all the better if people only
gave a little of their reading time to such valuable
medical works as Dr. Paterson has in this instance
given to them." Mi dgee Independent.
“The author not only fully understands the
perils which beset youth and manhood, but he can
point out the remedies.”—Cobau and Louth
H KHALI).
“Dr. Paterson, M.A., M.D., F.R.C.S.E., is a
high authority on the matters he deals with.”—
Coon a m ble Inde pendent.
“The work is well written, and far away the
best we have read on the subject.” —WILOANNIA
Times.
“ The subject is treated in a manner which
shows the author thoroughly understands it.” —
Fielding Stab, N.Z.
“ The book cannot be too widely circulated, and
should be in the hands of every person, male or
female.”— Poverty Bay Independent, N.Z.
“ Totally different from anything else of the
kind which has come under our notice.” — Bruce
Herald, N.Z.
“ It is a work which every young man should
read and lay to heart.”— Border Post.
157 Elizabeth Street, Hyde Park, SYDNEY.
—)*(—
CONSULTATION BY LETTER. £ l.
Medical.
j
j
IF SO,
DON’T MISS THIS!
What everyone says is bound to be true, and young'
and old, rich and poor, physicians who recommend, and
patients who try
The Krupp Galvanic Chain Belt,
All agree in praising that most scientific of Electro
Therapeutical Appliances. For Rheumatism it is un-
rivalled. Lumbago at once succumbs to its power. The
Nervous are strengthened and the Debilitated restored to
perfect health and vigour. In short, the appliance is an
unfailing cure for all Nervous, Sexual, or Chronic Diseases,
and is GUARANTEED to ABSOLUTELY CURE, com-
pletely and lastingly, the following complaints:
Dyspepsia, Neuralgia, Pains in the Back and Chest,
Lumbago, Catarrh, Rheumatism, Dumb Ague,
Nervous Debility, Paralysis, Kidney Complaint,
Spinal Disease, Female Weakness, Diseases of the
Liver, Impotence, Seminal Wcakness, Diabetes,
Sciatica, Atrophy, Gout, Indigestion, Asthma, Piles,
Epilepsy Spermatorrhoea, Specks before the Eyes,
Excessive Heart Palpitation, Defective Memory.
An I Jnfalling Cure For Varicocele.
It is a PORTABLE BODY BATTERY, and contains
special appliances for both sexes; therefore, why waste
your money and health by procuring and taking USELESS
DRUGS? Electricity, when properly applied, is acknow-
ledged by all leading and unprejudiced to be
the only safe and radical cure for Nervous and Sexual
Diseases, and the thousands of testimonials received by
the Krupp Belt Co. from leading personages throughout
Australasia prove the unquestionable curative properties
of Electricity as applied by theappliance above referred to.
Our confidence in this appliance is so complete, that
we send the Belt out on trial, and guarantee it
to give perfect satisfaction. For full particulars as to
terms, etc., send for our large illustrated treatise, free,
in which these Belts are fully illustrated, the action of
electricity on' the nervous system explained, and a lot of
useful information on nervous and sexual diseases given.
This treatise also contains facsimile of testimonials received
from some of our clients who have tried our Belts. Che
originals of these testimonials produced on application.
jggr" The prices of the Krupp Galvanic Chain Belt and
Suspensory are from £l.
Sole Inventor .. . Carl Kritpp.
Business Manager . A. W. Courtney.
Address all communications to the
Krupp Galvanic Chain Belt Co.,
Box 647, G.P.0., Sydney, N.S.W.
Remember—The K.G. Chain Belt cures without medicine,
is easy to wear, is sent on approval, and the first cost is
the only cost.
INDISPENSABLE JOB Xi AP -
AND ALL PERSONS
With a Delicate Skini
MOUSON’S
COCOA BUTTERSOAP
Cocoa Butter Soap is a real skin-beautifier, and a haim to
young and old alike.
MOUSON & CO., PERFUMERS & TOILET SOAP MANUFACTURERS,
FRANK FORT-ON-TIIE-MAINK.
London; 32 & 33 iiamsbll-st., e.c. Paris; 29 rue radziwill.
Full guarantee for perfect purity is offered by the
sole Manufacturers, Mouson & Co.
JULIUS GOLDSCHMIDT & C 0
231 CLARENCE-ST., SYDNEY,
SOLE AGENTS FOR AUSTRALASIA.
PLOUGH-SHARES,
FUUMAEIS, PLOM'LHM
IN EQUITY.
Hornsby v. Hudson
—* —
jiroTic ns
TO THE
riming Community of Hew South Wa os.
HUDSON BROS., Ltd.,
Are still making the Shares which formed
the subject of this great lawsuit. they
are now branded
DEE
and their quality is better than ever.
HU$
M
MW
Farmer* deshonsof eiicouragiii'.' * " ' "■
Industry can obtain these Slia es horn nr
Local Agent.
NOTE—Trial samples free of


Medical.
NERVOUS MEN.
-W
I
%
5!
EUREKA
ELECTRIC
BELT**
V. -
//
lA'
m
A NEVER FAILING- CURE FOR ALL.
DISEASES OF THE NERVOUS SYSTEM.
Complete with Suspensory Appliances from £l. 0. 0 and
upwards. This famous Electric Magnetic Belt will cure
NERVOUS DEBILITY, Seminal Debility, Impotence,
and all weakness caused by indiscretion. Pains in the
Back. Lumbago, Giddiness, Rheumatism, Kidney and
Bladder complaints, and in fact any disease of the Nervous
Bystem. The currents are steady and constantly felt by
the wearer. It has great improvements over all other
belts, we are willing to furnish those belts on 30 days
trial, and accept payment after they have proved them-
selves what we represent them to be. Those belts are
made for the specific purpose of producing a continuous,
mild, soothing current of electricity through all the weak-
ened parts, restoring them to health and vigorous strength,
even the worst case permanently cured in three months.
It is more convenient to wear than any other Belt.
A Book illustrated, containing full information and testi-
monials from prominent people throughout Australia,
and informing persons how they may obtain these belts
without paying f6r them until they have proved them com-
petent to cure any disease of the Nervous System, will be
forwarded to any address on receipt of a 2d stamp for
postage, p
Address VOLTAIC BELT COMPANY
Box 910, G. P. 0., Sydney.
Dr. James D. Llewellyn,
(registered)
SPECIALIST in
GENITO-DEIKAET DISEASES,
May be CONSULTED at
-3 25 LONSDALE STREET-
(between Swanston it Elizabeth Sts.),
MELBOURNE.
Consulting Hours—lo to 2; 7to 9. Sunday
Mornings, 10 to 1L
All Personal Consultations are FREE; by letter the
Fee is £l, which is inclusive of medicines.
Barry's
Tricopherous
FOR THE
HAIR a SKIN
An elegant dressing ex*
quisitely perfumed, re-
moves all impurities from
the scalp, prevents bald-
ness and gray hair, and causes the hair to grow
Thick. Soft and Beautiful. Infallible for curing
eruptions, diseases of the skin, glands and muscles,
and quickly healing cuts, burns,braises, sprains, &c.
Caution.—None genuine without the trade-mark of
Baeci.at & Co., New York, affixed to each bottle.
Ti
1801
u
BarryS
Cream
r forthe
Complexion
Imparts to the darkest skin a clear, natural white,
tinged with the faintest rose-blush. Speedily removes
Wrinkles, Freckles, Sunburn and Tan, and mantles
the faded cheek with youthful bloom and beauty.
CAUTION.—None genuine without the trade-mark
of Barclay & Co., Kew York, affixed to each bottle
I WT A BLESSING IN EVERY FAMILY.
HOLLOWAY’S PILLS AND OINTMENT.
There is not a country in the civilised world where
the healing virtues©! thes<® grand medicines have not been
secognised by thousands o! sufferers. In all the ordinary
ailments of humanity their beneficent action is at once
recognised. Fullest directions are supplied for their use
in every disease. IP YOU SUFFER, THY THEM. Manu-
factured only at 76 New Oxford-bt., London. Pur-
chasers should look to the Label on the Boxes and Pots.
If the address is not 523 Oxford-street, London, they are
spurious.
LOONG SHAN TEA HOUSE
NOW OPEN.
Quong Tart & Co.’s
extensive new premises
(Nearly opposite Theatre Royal).
FIRST-CLASS GRILLS,
As well as all kinds of Refreshments, may
be obtained from 7.30 u.m. to 11.30 p.ra.
CUP OF DELICIOUS TEA,
ICED DRINKS OF ALL KINDS, &o.
„ The rooms are splendidly furnished and
ntted up. In addition to the large and
well - appointed Refreshment Rooms,
gentlemen will find on the Second Floor
Commodious and Comfortable Smoking
ami Conversation Rooms, furnished with
Chess, Draughts, Ac., &c,
TO T 1 IE LADIES.
On the First Floor will be found Nice
Tnyat. Room for Ladies, convenient for
” r 'ting, Reading, &c., also Retiring
Rooms and Lavatory, with both hot and
cold water laid on. Inspection Invited.
, Finest Teas imported —Packets Jib. and
upwards supplied. Orders promptly at- ,
e nded to.
187 ring STREET, SYDNEY.
o
N
G
T
A
R
T
&
c
o
M
P
A
N
Y
Medical.
A WONDERFUL MEDICINE.
Beecliam’s Pills
Are universally admitted
to be worth a Guinea
a Box for bilious
and nervous disorders,
such as wind and pain in
the stomach, sick head-
ache, giddiness, fulness
and swelling after meals,
dizziness, and drowsiness,
cold chills, flushings of
heat, loss of appetite,
shortness of breath, cos-
tiveness, scurvy, blotches
on the skin, disturbed
sleep, frightful dreams,
and all nervous and trem-
bling’sensations, &o. The
first dose will give relief
*in twenty minutes. Every
terer is earnestly invited to try one box of these
Hills, and they will be acknowledged to be
PATENT
PILLS
£
&
*
S 5
45
Worth a Guinea a Box.
For females of all ages these .Pills are invaluable,
as a few doses of them carry off all humors, and
bring about all that is required. No female should
be without them. There is no medicine to be found
equal to BEECHAM’S PILLS for removing any
obstruction or irregularity of the system. If taken ac-
cording to the directions given with each box they will
soon restore females of all ages to sound and robust
health. This has been proved by thousands who have
tried them, and found the benefits which are ensured by
their use
For a weak st omach, impaired digestion and all disorders
of the liver, they act like “ MAGIC,” and a few doses will
be found to work wonders upon the most important
organs in the human machine. They strengthen the
whole muscular system, restore the long-lost complexion,
bring back the keen edge of appetite, and arouse into no-
tion with the ROSEBUD of health the whole physical
energy of the human frame. These are “ FACTS ” tes ified
continually hy members of all classes of society ; ahd
one of the best guarantees to the nervous and debilitated
is, Beecham’s Pills have the largest sale of any patent
medicine in the world.
Beeeham’s Magic Cough Pills.
As a remedy for Coughs in general, Asthma, Bronchial
Affections, Hoarseness, Shortness of Breath, Tightness
and Oppression of the Chest, Wheezing, &c., these Pills
stand-unrivalled. They are the best ever offered to the
public and will speedily remove that sense of oppression
and difficulty of breathing which nightly deprive the
patient of rest. Let any person give Bbbcham’s Couch
Pills a trial and the most violent Cough will in a
short time be removed.
Prepared only and sold wholesale and retail by the pro-
prietor,Thomas Beecham, Chemist, St. Helens, Lancashire,
England, in boxes at Is. IJd. and 2s. 9d. each.—Sold by
all Druggists and Patent Medicine Dealers everywhere.
N.B.— Full directions are given with each box.
CONSULT PROFESSOR SELBY,
376 Cleveland Street, Surry Hills, Sydney,
Personally or by letter on Chronic Complaints
of the Nervous System, Diseases of the Urinary
Organs and all Impurities of the Blood. A Positive
Cure in all cases amendable to treatment. Suf-
ferers should read the Professor’s valuable treatise,
sent post free to all who send their address. It
contains Ad vie® on Marriage, worth its weight
in gold.
EPPS’S
GRATEFUL—COMFORTING-
COCOA.
Dr. westcott’s amenorrhcea
PILLS for Ladies, when taken for a few
days before, quickly correct all irregularities
from whatever cause arising ; 2s. 9d. and 4s. 6d.,
by post 3s. and ss. W. H. SOUL and C 0.,. 190
Pltt-street, Sydney, Agents.
Musical.
PATENT SCALE* INSTRUCTOR
—FOR TUK—
PUPILS can obtain the above at once, and the best
way to illustrate its usefulness to them Is to sup-
pose a man to live to be a hundred years old and never
to have seen a Piano, he would, with five minutes’
instruction, ho able to play the most difficult Major and
Minor Seales on the instrument.
Miscellaneous.
F. C. NICHOIaLS & Co.,
WHOLESALE
Confectioners & Pastrycooks,
City Buildings:
730 George Street, 730
HA YMABKET.
Steam Works :
617, 619, 621, 539, 541 HARRIS STREET.
Wedding Cakes, &c. r Made to Order.
WALTBB HO^DEQ,
General Merchant & Commission Agent,
199 SUSSEX STR E ET, SYDNEY.
/“CONSIGNMENTS of all Produce, Liva Stock, etc..
U received and realised in the best markets. Account
Sales and Proceeds remitted the day after sale. Orders
executed for all Goods from Sydney at Lowest Wholesale
Speciality,- -Pure-bred and Pedigree Stock of all de-
scriptions Bouoht or Sold on Commission. All communi-
cations referring to Pure-bred Poultry and Eggs for Setting
to be addressed as usual to WALTER HOPE, Bonnyrigg
Prize Poultry Farm, Liverpool, N.S.W.
SPECIAL NOTICE.—The Sydney Bulletin.
Tasmanian Edition Publishers, FITZ-
GERALD BROS. Subscription (payable strictly
in advance), Six Shillings and Sixpence per quar-
ter, or One Pound per annum.
The Bulletin will bo on Sale every Friday at
the Office, George Street. Launceston, or from the
Runners in the street.
Business Aimoimceine-nts
The bank of new Zealand.
Sydney Branches:
64 PITT STREET, and 538 GEORGE STREET.
Paid-up Capital £1,125,000
The Bank has Agents in all the principal cities
throughout.the United States o£ America and
Canada, and can offer special facilities for dealing
in Bullion, Bills of Exchange, Commercial and
Travellers’ Letlers of Credit.
Drafts issued and Bills collected on most favour-
able terms, at rates which can be ascertained on
application.
N. F' f GIBLIN, Manager.
H XX XT- T 1 XX
BOOT UPPER MANUFACTURER
, IMI’OF.TKK OF-
ENGLISH AND FOREIGN LEATHER,
Elastic Web, tirinrtcry, Ac.,
Wholesale and Retail Leather Merchant
i 539 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
>3&
NJ
OES
HAIR VA
EVERY
ESCRIRTION
HAIR WORK DONE
%
%
ip,
IP
sJ
iP
%
<C
%
<S
<C
<b
*
«
\P
%
PRIVATE
ROOM S
FOR LADIES
/22 $24
/IOYAL ARCADE
MELBOURNE
J. SITTERLIN,
FROM PARIS,
Ladies’ Hairdresser. Wigmaker, & Perfumer,
25 SYDNEY ARCADE, SYDNEY.
HISTORICAL AAD FANCY HAIRDRESSING A
SPECIALTY.
Manufacturer of All Kinds of Theatrical
and Street Wigs.
Animonlateil Quinine, •
The most efficient Hair Lotion, to prevent prema-
ture baldness.
Sitterlin's Vegetable Hair-djre,
The only Hair-dye in the colonies to restore Light
Hair to its natural colour. All shades.
Snccesa Guaranteed..
OUTCAST L£ i softs
MANUFACTURING HATTERS
GEORGE STREET
SYDNEY
IMPORTERS OFALLTHE
NEWEST SHAPES,
BRISBANE.
flUGH'S
m
i
THE BEST
IN THE WORLD
manufactured »v . _ .A
, JjSMCS CHANNOfit S/arboirrS* & r=
-m)cH lu all I) sfir™ ,4*
if!
Business Announcements.
HE THREE GREAT LIGHTS!
The Needles Patent Gas-making Machine;
The Harvey Patent Safety Kerosene Lamp;
And the New Era Portable Gas Lamp.
The Harvey Lamp has been adopted by the
Railway Commissioners for lighting the Sydney
trains. We were awarded the Highest Order of
Merit and Special Mention by experts at the
late Melbourne Exhibition for our lighting
mediums. Over 6000 Harvey Lamps are in use
in this colony, and for all lighting purposes are
giving universal satisfaction. These Lamps can
be seen on one of the North' Shore ferry-boats,
and are suitable for all classes of vessels. The
Inventor offers £200 to anyone producing as good
a Kerosene Burner.
Patentees for Australasia;
H. T. Smith Sc Co,, 494 Kent St. South, Sydney;
14 Arcade' Adelaide, S.A.; Argent Street, Broken Hill;
Parkside Iron Works, Melbourne.
CHAMPION CHAFF I
At the request of numerous customers we have decided,
in addition to our noted 4s. 6d. chaff, to cut a SUPERIOR
sample which will be known as the
CHAMPION CHAFF.
ZW" Each bag will be branded with the word “ CHAM-
PION” over our name, and we guarantee every bag to
contain pure all hay chaff, fresh cut, screened and dusted.
Chaff Less Than Wholesale Prices 1
We supply the cheapest horsefeed ih Sydney.
SPECIAL LINE. —Prime Chickwheat 3s. per. bushel-
This is exceptional value and is selling rapidly.
City Produce Company,
STEAM CHAFF-CUTTERS.
HAY STREET, HAYMARKET.
WA. LEWIS, old-established Private' Detective,
■ for the discovery of Missing Friends, tracing
Absconders, watching Suspected Persons, and prosecuting
all kinds of Private and Confidential Enquiries ; obtaining
Evidence in Divorce, Libel, Fraud, Bigamy, Breach of
Promise ; extracts from or Copies of Wills, or Certificates
of Births, Marriages or Deaths obtained, in any part of the
world. Bankrupt Schedules Piled, £‘1, by a legal gentle-
man duly admitted and practising in ail the courts of
N.S.W., who may be consulted at my office on all legal
work. Consultation Free. Rents and F)ebts Collected,
Distress Warrants issued, steady and trustworthy Bailiffs
employed, andall moneys received are promptly accounted
for. W. A. LEWIS cautions the public against so-called
old-established private detective agencies, as he is con-
nected with no agents in Sydney. An intelligent, well-
trained staff of Male and Female Assistants retained,
capable, when necessary, of assuming any character in
life—from a newspaper boy to a clergyman, or from a
servant girl to a lady. Terms Moderate. Consultation
Free, Address—
Pikenix Chambers, 158 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
[Telephone 723.
Sydney Canister Works,
COLLINS STREET, SURRY HILLS,
OFF CROWN STREET.
Manufacturers of all kinds of Tins for Oonfectionera>
Tea Merchants, Biscuit Makers, &c., also all kinds
©f Tins, round and square, for Pepper, Spice and
Baking Powder, made by improved machinery.
A. Trial Solicited.
Hotels.
PPAHLEET’S HOTEL,
SYDNEY, NS.W,
Opposite the Park, Wynyard Square.
(Under New Management.)
rums for 25 years well-known First-class Central Hotel,
-*- recently thoroughly renovated throughout, has every
comfort and attention of a home. The Cuisine Department
is under competent French supervision. Dining Room
open for Non-Residents. Open-air Recreation Garden.
A well-ventilated Billiard Room adjoining Recreation
Ground (three Alcock’s best Tables), under the manage-
ment of A. Buckingham, late of Empire Hotel. Wines
and Spirits of the very best quality only, and vae Finest
and Coolest Bar in Town
HOY AND COLD BATHS.
IST WIGHT PORTER.
Telephone Wo. 150.
French ]
German
Italian j
Spoken.
SPECIAL SUITES FOR FAMILIES.
OHAS. HECHT ... Manager.
THE GEOEHE HOTEL
(opposite Railway Station, near Baths),
St. Kilda, Victoria.
First-class Family & Commercial Hotel.
E3T For particulars, apply to
I*. WIMPOLE,
PROPRIETOR.
jg’ATOOMBA FAMILY HOTEL.
JOSEPH NIMMO.
First-dam Accommodation for Tourists and FamiUn
Wire* and Latter* to be addressed “ Proprietor."
Arrangements can bo made to provide transit for persons
wishing to view the celebrated Jenolan Caves and
other places of interest.
RO Y A L HOTEL.
Esplanade,
ST. KILDA, VICTORIA,
Facing Beach, dose to Pier and Baths. Ten
minutes from Station.
E. MOONEY - - Proprietor.
LIVERY LETTING STABLES ATTACHED.
Telephone 682.
First-class Accommodation for Visitors
Ag olj> e n shanty.
Pride Ond -Shilling.


SHEVILL & CO.,
Corner Queen Street and Flinders Lane,
MELBOURNE.
MERCANTILE AUCTIONEERS,
House, Land, and Estate Agents,
'--h*
JJ
Advances made asrainst shipments of Merchandise
and Colonial Produce.
Dachj Sales held at their Commodious
■ ' New Rooms. • ; ■
OUTDOOR
Furnitun & Land -Sales Conducted
Bit-Awn
Od'icbb
j 32 Chapel St., Prahran.
\ 2 Albert St., Windsor. I
j
Anglo Scandinavian
Cold Medal
d
Acknowledged
The Best
os;
IXTHS^W
FURNITURE
WAREHOUSES,
Ycfk Street, Wynyard Square, Sydney,
Now supply the General Public as well as the Trade.
10,000 Bedsteads,
From. lOs. 6d. to £35.
j
m
■
H. R> Lc3»ch,
SUCCESSOR TO
m b. MODINI, Gunmaker, informs his Customers
VTi and the Public in general that .he has the largest
assortment of Firearms in the colony. Qualities and prices
to defy competition. Guns by the following celebrated
gunmakers J. Purdey & Sons, Ch. Boswell, John Rigby
and Co., Joseph Lang & Sons, Ch. Osborne & Go., Thomas
Rt and & Son A large assortment of various other makers
always on hand, viz., W. W. Greener, Scott , Weblev,
Hollis & Sons, Riley and Cash more. All goods will be
faithfully guaranteed at 602 Gsorge-street, Sydney.
Price list on application. _ . ■ "yfc
Th. omas Rpss,
TOBACCO &. CIGAR IMPORsER,
27 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY,
(CornerOf Pitt Street.) ; .
A large stock of Genuine llavannali Cigars, of the
choicest Brands to select from.
Sole Importer of the Celebrated “ Fior dc Bonlto ”
Brand of Cigars and “Empire Cigarettes.”
Palls Br idge Family Hotel,
Falls Bridge, Melbourne. -
This magnificent Hotel” containing s(> Double
and Single Rooms, is splendidly furnished and
perfectly ventilated. __ •
Hot and Cold Plunge and Shower Baths.
Electric Bells. Telephone 1217 Billiards, dec.
Terms Strictly Moderate.
J. H. DUIUIAVT ~ Manager
Late of the South Australian Club Hotels Adelaide.
Free prescriptions
Are to be found in’ the *■ Light -ami Uife,
for the Speedy Cure of Nervous Debility and
Kindred Diseases, &c A copy of wll
be sfeht Free, sealed, for Sis Fenny Stamps.
'1 d(l J*css — - -if at
"g. WARD ts CO., SYDNEY PHARMACY,
76 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.,
tr
FRY’S
Hill.
Ml 111 11.1 ,S»| U««H
PARKE & LACY CO.,
MINING & HYDRAULIC ENGINEERS
P:f ■ AND '■ V
GENERAL MACHINERY MERCHANTS,
&c., &c., &c *
187 & 189 Clarence Street,
SYDNEY, axr.S.'W.
And SAN FRANCISCO, CALIFORNIA.
Rock Breakers.
Westlnghouse Engines
LI
Hay St., Haymarket, Sydney,
ENGINES,
2 to 50 H.P.
BOILERS,
1 to 35 hlp.
STEAM PUMPS
For all purposes.
CENTRIFUGAL PUMPS,
2" to 40"'<liscWge,,
HAND PUMPS.
Saw Benches.
Xjp.tb.es.
DEILUNS MACHINES,
Slo.
fat
■r:
4 li
is
WINDING ENGINES.
Hauling Engines.
Battery Engines.
Saw-mill Engines.
riOMLL ENGINES,
ENGINES
FOB
Electric Lighting*
Vertical Boilers.
Muliituklar Boilers.
ioiiMsii uoi teats.
. . t,, write for iiartioulars ami pine From the . xt.-ut of our stock we:m> generally able to give immediate delivery-
* al those requifing of^
ars wither buyers'™ n't|w display in our new and axtonsivd Showrw.ms,
„ ' Jgx irar* TPT /V Y STREET, HjSLYM^
129,
1 3 X, X 3 3
X 35
niO »l W» > “ <V i ItUlilv l 'v‘ v 1,1 1 n 1 ,y » jM- -m - ■■ « w ._ - M -, m| m
XXjHkY STREET, HA YM A-lIICBX, SYDNEY*
