

f
Street, ©"STIOaTETST-
UN RIVALLED ACCOMMODATION.
IDicfeson’s Hotel,
ilia. 11l Pass.” “Look-Out.”
DISTANCE FROM SYDNEY, 42 MILES
WM. HICKSON
“ Wishing Well.”
HORSES AND VEHICLES ON HIRE.
“London Waterfalla.”
EVERY ACCOMMODATION.
'-i -Ct:, =>> ;» .
■,< - .
BALDWIN MY AIR REFRIGERATOR.
Beware of the many so-called Dry Air Refrigerators advertised by unscrupulous Manufacturers and Dealers, intending
to deceive the public and trade upon our reputation. This is the original and celebrated Dry Air Refrigerator, made
famous by its successful competition at the leading Exhibitions in the United States for the past Six Years, known as
the Baldwin Dry Air Refrigerator.
WHITE MOUNTAIN FREEZERS, ICE MILK CANS, MIXERS
X-3E3M;O3Xr SQXJ£]£3ZEIR.S, &c., &c.
L
• v
512 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
AITKEN’S ALE.
LIFE BUOY BRAND.
THE BEST 13ST THE MARKET.
“DICKENS’” WHISKY.
USED BY THE LATE. CHARLES DICKENS,
AXD SUPPLIED TO THE PIMMTPAL CLUBS l\ SIDNEY.
Harrison & ikttwood, 253. Greorge-st., Sydney. So-le Agents for 3XTew South 'Wales a.
J. & C. HOWARD.
Howard’
s Folotiisl 9-Furrow Digglns
Plough.—(B.Z.O.F)
Howard’s Single-Furrow I>ljj
Plongli.-(0.L.)
ii»g
Tlie Plougli or tlie Times!
PLOUGHING AND HARROWING IN ONE ACT.
Share Points only cost 6d., and are Reversible.
Chaff-Cutters, Horse Gears and every kind of Agricultural Implements
ITT stock:.
tl'” Enquirers please quote this paper.
280 i PITT STREET, SYDNEY
(Corner of Pitt ano Bathurst Streets).
Cf-.-
WA
'Kr -
V
Ui
m
m.
-I 1 1I.E-
-LONDON & SYDNEY
TEA
COMPANY.
409— KENT STREET-409
(Two doors from Market Street),
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
HX o- XX-C LASS ILTXIAH- & CHIITA
Packed in 201 b. and 401 b, 1A and delivered at Is. 6d., Is. 9d. and 2s. per lb.
(Carriage Free) %o any Railway Station or Port in New South Wales.
A Single Package at Wholesale Price. Correspondence invited and promptly attended to.
The Bulletin
Yol 11-No. 528.]
[Saturday, March 29, 1890.


TOBACCO
Ml
m
Dixsoimoi
Customs Beturns.
American Leaf.
Dixson and Sons consumed in 1888, 52,592 lbs.
more, and in 1889 (over 44 tons) 98,939 lbs. more
American Leaf than all the rest of New South
Wales put together.
DIXSON’S TOBACCOS having the largest
sale of any in Australia are—
o
o
X
*v
SIR ROGER
Dr. RIDGE'S
FOOD
FOR INFANTS AND INVALIDS
Has an enormous sale in England
and is now being introduced into the
Colonies.
Every Storekeeper should get a supply
as every Wise mother will certainly
use it.
DR. RIDGE’S ROYAL FOOD MILLS,
LONDON, ENGLAND.
SOT
' xadiis;
TBONKSIfcCaC
> i».»<S»cJisitt **- '
/? &7h 6
BROWN’S
SATIN
POLISH
-FOE-
LADIES’ AND CHILDREN’S
BOOTS AND SHOES.
Awarded highest honors at
Phila., 1876
Berlin, 1877
Paris, 1878
Melbourne, 1880
Frankfort, 1881
Amsterd’m 1883
New Orleans, 1884-85, and wherever
exhibited.
Paris medal on every bottle.
Beware of Imitations.
This Blacking- is in liquid form and Is applied to shoes
or other articles of leather by means of a sponge, attached
to the cork by a wire, so that the blacking can be used by
anyone without soiling the fingers. No polishing brush
is required. It dries immediately after being applied, and
will not soil the most delicate clothing.
Sold largely in Australia through Commission Merchants
and Dealers.
B. T. BROWN & CO.,
Boston, U.S.A., M’f’gs.
THE BALLARAT COFFEE PALACE,
Lydiakd Street, Ballarat,
VISITORS to the Golden City will find every
convenience at the above Establishment.
The Only Coffee Palace in Ballarat.
MODERATE CHARGES.
RBID & SONS Proprietors.
ATKINSON’S ,
ENGLISH PERFUMERY
surpasses all others for its natural
fragrance.
ATKINSON’S CELEBRATED
EAXJ DE COLOGNE
Is Unequalled, for Sts Strength and
Delightful Odour. It far surpasses
the numerous compounds sold under
the same name.
.a. t k i isrs o isr ’ s
FLORIDA WATER,
An exceptionally fine Perfume for
the Handkerchief, distilled from the
choicest exotics.
0/all Dealers and of the Manufacturers—
J. & E. ATKINSON,
24, OLD BOND STREET, LONDON.
k Trade Mark—“White Hose" on “Golden g
Lyre,” with Address in full.
T. LAWLESS, June.,
37 MAMET STREET,
SYDNEY,
rrnit M er cliant.
.0%
V|V.
0/
1 /■)''
,>l/
M'
Tro,«J»I * C?
MI LDURA .
Melbourne
Renmark.
Adela 1 DE _
England.
£*©
.Victoria,
Cbaffby Irrigation. Offices, Swanstcn Street.
South Australia,.
.Cavendish Chambers , Grenfell Street'.
J. E Mathew Vincent, (Chief Commissioner)
Cornwall Buildings, 35 Queen Victoria Sr,
LONDON ec- ,
PRINCE OF WALES’ HOTEL,
St. ISZildsL* Victoria.
Within Five Minutes from STATION, and One Minute from ESPLANADE and BATHS.
MRS. KONG MENG ... ... ... Proprietress.
WI jL. 31. X J^SVLS’
AUSTRALIAN YEAST POWDER
IS THE ONLY PERFECT SUBSTITUTE FOR YEAST.
: J..
Breaa, Tea Calces, Pastry, &c.,
ABE
Light, Wholesome and Digestible
WHEN MADE WITH
Williams’ Australian IT east Powder.
FOR THE TOWN, THE BUSH, AND THE SEA.
Beware of Worthless Imitations. Sold in Tins at 6d. the Half-Pound
CLARENDON HOTEL, MANLY,
The Brighton of New South Wales.
AT th« CLARENDON HOTEL, Banquets, Suppers, Private Dinners, Evening Parties, etc., are
served on the Shortest Notice in the Large Dining Hall. Besides having a most recherche
Dinner, you can enjoy from the balconies the magnificent view of the sea and surrounding country;
here also you can have good company, good wines—in fact, everything that can possibly make one
comfortable can be found at this really first-class hotel. Fishing and Picnic Parties provided. Table
de Hole at One o’clock daily and Sundays. No expense is spared by Mrs. Kilminsteb to make her
\ isitors comfortable and her Hotel the best in the colony.
Mrs. KIX.MI3NSTER, Clarendon Hotel,
Opposite OCEAN BEACH, MANLY.
RICHMOND FAMILY HOTBL,
PORTLAND, VICTORIA.
John Shelton - Proprietor.
68 Hunter Street, and 8 Bligh Street,
SYDNEY.
IF 1 . SHEOEDEE
LIVERY, BAIT, LET-OUT AND COMMIS-
SION STABLES.
Horses and Vehicles of every description for
Sale or Hire; also, good reliable Ladies or Gentle-
men’s Hacks.
WILLIAM === CARGILL,
Photographic Stock Importer,
2 6 MARKET STREET, SYDNEY,
LEA & PERRINS'
SAUCE,
Purchasers should sec that the Label on every bottle of the original
WORCESTERSHIRE SAUCE
bears the Signature, thus
Ask for Lea & Perrins* Sauce, and sec Name on Wrapper, Label, Pottle and Stopper.
WJiolesale and for Export by the Proprietor*, Worcester; Crosse $ Blackwell, London, se., se.}
and by Grocers and Oilmen throughout the World.
Tire
—Everyone should Read—
BULLETINS
“HISTORY of BOTANY BAY,”
By ARTHUR GAYT.iI-«.
Profusely Illustrated by “ The Bulletin’s” well-known Artists, L. Hopkins and Phil May.
Price - ONE SHILLING; per Post, Is. 3d.
May be had from Agents, or direct from “ The Bulletin ” Office.
Agents —Victorian:
A. Benjamin, 321 Little Collins Street East, Melbourne ; Tasmanian
Launceston ; Queensland ; J. H. Thompson, George Street,
: Fitzgerald Brothers, George Street.
Brisbane.


Business Announcements.
BEALE & COMPANY’S
KTew Warehouse.
r^cHrt’ld
1
OHR NEW SHOWROOMS AND HEAD OFFICES,
482 and 484 George Street,
SYDNEY.
A RADICAL REFORM.
“Oh, I feel so Mondayish !” exclaims the housemother
at her breakfast table on the Monday morning. Although
the above absurd adjective is not to be found in the dic-
tionary, yet every woman well knows its meaning when
she looks forward to the teeming, steaming, boiling, toil-
ing, temper-trying, hateful washing day. The house is
thrown out of joint, other weekly duties are, as far as
possible, set aside, the children kept out of the way, a cold
dinner for the family, and a warm reception for anyone
who intrudes to waste time and to prolong the agony.
Happy, indeed, is the home where “washing day” is a
thing of the past. Every busy, hard-pressed mother
knows the wretchedness and gloom which the present
washing day brings down upon the household. In the
early morning all is prepared for the all important washer-
woman, timed to arrive for an early breakfast, and then
to attack the week or fortnight’s batch of soiled linen.
The good-natured husband readily excuses a hastily-pre-
pared breakfast, for he hopes it may betoken the speedy
ending of the dreadful day. The children are packed off
to school, and then begins in earnest the strife between
the housewife, anxious to get everything finished in good
time, and the professional laundress, equally anxious to
make the work last over two days. With the greatest
impartiality the laundress divides her attention between
the discussion of light refreshments and the very latest
gossip, the intervals of time being filled up with a gentle
application to her special functions
Very many of our valued customers to whom we have
3 lied labor-saving appliances in the past, do their own
ing. In every family, in our climate, frequent
changes of underclothing are necessary. Then there are
the house linen, the cotton dresses, white coats, and
outer garments; and all this is heaped up for the poor
house-mother to cleanse, perhaps with the assistance of a
daughter, if there is one old enough. It is not that the
husband, who also works hard, is unkind. Expenses are
many, economy is imperative, days of depression and of
trouble must be provided against. So the washing is to
be done, and the wife must do it; and after the imperfect
rest of a sultry night, as she gets ready the breakfast upon
a hot Monday morning, she feels for a while that her lot
is cheerless, that the apportionment of toil is beyond her
share and beyond her strength ; that somehow a change
should be made. No wonder that fair young girls, after a
few years of married life, become worn-looking, and that
they age faster than they ought. The husband is willing
enough to cherish the good wife’s comeliness, and to make
her lot easy, but how ? She does not complain, only says
she feels always “ tired ”
Now, as purveyors of household implements, we have
long seen our opportunity to enlarge our business by
introducing a thoroughly efficient Washing and Mangling
Machine. Both these services must be combined in the
one article. This we have most perfectly and assuredly
accomplished. The demon of the washing day is not
scotched but killed.
We resolved to introduce nothing until absolutely certain
by observation, experiment, and test, that the implement
would be a success. There are hosts of Washing Machines.
The l ast majority are childish fads, are injurious, or are
useless. We say and we prove that the Beale Patent
Washer will save in labour of washing in proportion as our
Sewing Machines do in sewing. And in a higher degree,
for the washing by hands is so much the more laborious.
The Beale Patent Washer may be described as follows :
The vertical tub is very carefully made, with fluted sides.
It is stationary, only the water and the clothes being
agitated by an accurately shaped “dolly,” which is worked
by a fly-wheel. The clothes are simply dropped in, no
arrangement or packing being wanted. The special
reversing gear moves this dolly swiftly backwards and for-
wards, and a very small expenditure of strength suffices
to lash the water into a mass of foaming suds. In the
process the clothes are floated to and fro, up and down ;
currents and cross-currents of water are formed, which
meet, and are forced through and through the fabric,
carrying away every particle of dirt and stain. The linen,
being merely suspended in the water, is not rubbed and
scrubbed as in hand-washing. Neither has anything to
submit to the hand-wringing process, which insensibly
nps, tears, and wears the clothes. Thus the most delicate
fabrics cannot be torn by our system of washing. Every-
one has noticed that their clothes seem to Vie as much
worn by washing as by use. This is caused by the fierce
rubbing they get upon washing boards, or by the hands.
With the Beale Patent Washing Machines this friction is
done away with. Therefore, the clothes will last far longer
titan by hand-washing, however careful. When the wash-
ing is done, the tub should be wiped out, so that it be
always sweet and clean. There is no false bottom, and
nothing to accumulate greasy sediments.
When you buy a Machine of any kind,
have a good one.
Beale & Company
482 Si 484 George Street,
SYDNEY.
We have erected new Show-rooms, Offices, and
Warehouses, at No. 482 and 484, George-street,
Sydney, opposite Central Markets, and near to
the Royal Arcade. These are the loftiest com-
mercial buildings in the city, and can be seen from
all parts of the city and adjacent suburbs. The
Showrooms are the largest and finest in the
Southern Hemisphere, for the due display of the
splendid Hapsburg PianoSj Haydn Organs, and
Beale Patent Sewing Machines.
All goods may be had upon easy time-payment,
or for cash less three shillings in the pound.
Photographs, price-lists, and samples free by
post.
No matter where you live, we will supply you
with a Piano, Organ, Harmonium, Sewing Machine
or Washing Machine, upon easy time-payment.
Branches and Travellers throughout New South
Wales and Queensland.
Business Announcements.
WILLIAM FLEMING,
MERCHANT and IMPORTER,
22 & 24 Clarence Street
(Comer Margaret St.),
SYDNEY.
St. James’ Buildings
(WILLIAM STREET),
MELBOURNE.
Fleming’s
RELIABLE
Buggies.
f
Rigfh-Olass Bng*g*ies, Phaetons,
Wag'gfons and Harness.
ƒ
Farm Waggons,
Express Waggons.
CARTS
For One and Two Passengers.
I SCOTTISH N£CT/\j^|
f
0)110111
1s « s
UAM-VAK
Wms
asN^'
Y.
r
_3r
x <sy
68
CLARENCE S*
SYDNEY.
AGENTS
in New South Wales
TRIUMPH
OfThE QOOD3pIRIT over Bad.
HAT!
LARMER’S
TONIC
CURES
Nervous Debility,
Sick Headache
Bilious Complaints
Fever and Ague.
Sleep-essness,
Liver and Blood.
THE TONIC OF THE AGE!
This being one of the best Restoratives yet
offered to the Public in the form of a Tonic.
Warranted to Build up the Constitution,
at the same time acts a:s a Strengthening
Restorative in all eases.
BOTTLES at 2s. 6d. and 6s.
Post* Is Extra.
Prepared only by—
CAINS & CO., Chemists,
78 KING ST., SYDNEY-
For Sale by all Chemists.
h. w.aco
HUNGARIAN
NATURAL APERIENT WATEK.
For Constipation, IndlgssUea
tom
urn
iu
Stomach & Liver Complaints
of all chemists in austaalasia
The Natural Mineral Waters of
[STATE
ƒ
SPRINGS.)
GRANDE-QRILLB.—For Affections of tha
Liver, Biliary Organs, Sta,
CELEBTINS.—For the Kidneys, Gravel, Qont
Rheumatism, Diabetes, &o.
HOPITAL.—For Stomach Complaints.
HAUTERIYE.— An excellent Table Watml
OF ALL CHEMIST* IN AUSTRALASIA.
Business Announcements.
MASON BROTHERS,
f
LIMITED.
263 to 269 KENT STREET,
SYDNEY,
Hare alwa\ > -Stock for Salb to the
Trade an,, uulesale Buyers Only,
Ironmongery, an<l
GENERAL HARDWARE
Glass, China and
EARTHENWARE.
WINES, BEERS & SPIRITS,
AND GENERAL
BULK MERCHANDISE.
Agents for
JOHN WALKER and SONS
Old Highland Whisky.
J. SORIN and CO.’S
Cognac.
J. T. OATEN'S,
Schnapps and Geneva.
A. MELVIN and SONS’
Edinburgh Pale Ale.
HENRY GEORGE.
Send to
HEKTRY EinXTG,
SCENIC AND PORTRAIT PHOTOGRAPHER,
316 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
—-FOR —
Life-like Cabinet Portrait of the Apostle of
SINGLE-TAX —Henry George.
Price (post paid), 2/6.
Medical.
AMERICAN DISPENSARY
3 X
Yor li Street.
P.O. Box 920.
Dr. Speer is a regular Graduated Physician, educated at
Harvard College, U.S. (for confirmation see New Zealand
Gazette, January 21st, 1886; also New South Wales
Gazette, April 17th, 1888). The doctor has devoted 14
years to the study of CHRONIC, NERVOUS, AND
SPECIAL DISEASES. Four of these were in the leading
hospitals of the United States, which enables him to treat
all complaints with excellent results. All applying to
him will receive his honest opinion of their complaints.
No experimenting ;no Mercury used. He will guarantee
a positive cure in every case he undertakes, or forfeit
£2OO. His reason for doing so is this—when there is no
organic disease, and nothing but an inorganic trouble, or,
in other words, a conglomeration of symptoms producing
a certain result, there is no reason why it cannot be re-
moved with the proper remedies, therefore he guarantees.
He wishes it distinctly understood that he does not claim
to perform impossibilities, or to have miraculous power
he claims only to be a skilled and successful physician
thoroughly informed in his speciality—CHßONlC and
SPECIAL DISEASES of MEN and WOMEN. People
residing at a distance can, by explaining their troubles in
detail be treated at home. The course of treatment will
not in any way interfere with their business. Examina-
tion and advice free to all. Charges moderate. H. J.
Speer, M D., 31 York-street, Sydney. Post Office Box,
No. 920. Office hours, 10 a.m. o 12 a.m. 2to 4 and 7
to 8 p.m. Sundays from 10 to 11 a.m. only.
T 7
€4
TO YOUKTG E! 3XT.
DR. FLETCHER S
TREATISE ON NERVOUS DISEASES, THEIR CAUSE,
SYMPTOMS, TREATMENT, AND CURE.
HP HE directions contained in this little treatise will be
_ found of immense benefit to the sufferer; and if these
directions are observed during the early stages of Nervous
or Sexual Debility, No Medicines will he required, as, by
observing the directions given, the patient can Cure him-
self.
This admirable little treatise is specially written to
show a method of counteracting the evil effects of indis-
cretions in early life—overwork, irregularity in eating or
drinking, &c. It is the result of much study and long
and successful experience in the treatment of diseases,
and contains a fund of useful information to every suf-
ferer from the following complaints, viz.:—Nervous
Debility, Dizziness, Specks before the Eyes, Pains in the
Back, Defective Memory, Loss of Will Power, Loss of
Energy, Spermatorrhoea, Bashfulness, Discontentedness,
Constipation, Liver and Kidney Derangements, Atrophy,
Impotence, Impure Blood, Foul Taste in Mouth, Palpita-
tion of Heart. Wakefulness, Despondency, Excessive Ner-
vousness, Inability to Marry, Premature Decay, and other
symptoms experienced by nervous sufferers.
All Should Send for this Little Treatise.
If the complaint is of long standing and requires
medicine, Dr. Fletcher will GUARANTEE TO CURE
ANY CASE OF NERVOUS or SEXUAL DEBILITY
with ONE COURSE OF MEDICINES LASTING FIVE
WEEKS, and will send with medicines A WRITTEN
GUARANTEE to cure same or return the monies paid.
Dr. Fletcher’s treatment is both simple and effective,
and within the reach of the poorest. It is unlike any
other, and with it he has cured over 25,000 patients, and
invites patients to investigate his statements by verifying
the testimonials published in his treatise. The treatise
will be forwarded on receipt of two stamps to cover
postage.
CONSULTATION BY LETTER, FREE.
Address in first instance—
DR. h. EWART FLETCHER,
Box 1417, G.P.O.
Sydney, N.S.W.
Private address—Clonmel House, Waverley, Sydney.
_ Remember, all cases undertaken, guaranteed, and a
signed agreement given, which provides that NO COST
be incurred by the patient if a cure is not effected.
VARICOCELE RADICALLY CURED WITHOUT
OPERATION.
Mention this Paper.
IN THE PRESS,
“.A. GOLDEN
By “BULLETIN” WRITERS.


x*itt~:eekfooi- east estate.
A pleasantly-situated Property, thorpughly. cleared, close to Liverpool Station. Torrens’ Title. £1 deposit; 10s. per month.
.A.. W. STZEUPIHEEjNy 28 CASTLEBEAG-H STBEET, SYDNEY- [
“A GOLDEN SHANTY." A Selection from the brightest of the original literary matter which has made The Bulletin world-famous. trice, Is. : if posted, ,3d. extia.
Public Companies.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA.
THE COMING COLONY!
Everyone should Invest a Few Pounds in Land
in
PERTH,
Tim CAPITAL CITY OF WESTERN AUSTRALIA.
Compared with other Australian Cities the Price
is Very Low.
The Coal, Gold and Tin Mines are attracting
much enterprise and capital to the Colony.
CITY BUILDING - ALLOTMENTS,
From 11 per F'oot.
BUILDING SITES adjoining the CITY
From £lO Kuril.
Small Deposit. Easy Terms. Discount for Cash.
Each Lot guaranteed good Building Land.
Land in Perth will increase greatly in value during
the next few years.
INQUIRY COSTS NOTHING.
Pamphlets, Marked Plans, and full information
posted to any address on application to
The Iniercolonia.l Investment Go., Limitel
96 Bathurst Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
W. J. DOUGLAS, Manager.
The Australian Mercantile Loan and
Guarantee Co. (Limited).
Head Office :
Corner of Market ami York Streets, SYDNEY.
Melbourne —283 Collins-street East.
Brisbane—Corner Edward and Elizabeth Streets.
Newcastle—27 Hunter-street.
Directorate:
FRANK J. SMITH, Esq., M.L.A., Managing Director.
J. P. HOWE, Esq., M.L.A. G. J. FINLAYSON, Esq.
E. H. BUCHANAN, Esq. JAMES MILLER, Esq.
The Company grant immediate advances upon
Deeds of Land, Bills of Lading, Merchandise,
Storage, and Bond Certificates, and all classes of
mercantile and other approved securities, for fixed
terms or repayable by instalments.
Interest Allowed on Deposits:
3 months ... 6 per cent.
A. MILLER ... General Manager.
THE
Australian Banking Company,
LIMITED.
I'ITT and MARKET STREETS, SYDNEY,
Incorporated under the Companies Act , 187 k.
Authorised Capital, £500,000, in 100,000 Shares of £6 each.
Subscribed Capital, £75,000.
francts Abigail, m.1.a.,
Chairman of the Board of Directors.
A Branch of the Bank has been opened at Goulbum
under the management of C. 11. Atkinson, Esq. (lately
Branch Manager of the Bank of New South Wales) for the
transaction of General Banking Business.
The Bank has paid its Shareholders a dividend of 10 per
cent, everv half-year since its formation.
The Bank transacts all usual banking business in every
particular. .
Special advantages granted to Commercial Clients.
Overdrafts granted against deposit of Deeds.
THE HIGHEST RATES OF INTEREST GIVEN FOR
FIXED DEPOSITS.
The Share Register is now open for the allotment of
Shares—New Issue.
By order of the Board of Directors.
RODERICK M'NAMARA, Manager.
Forms of application for Shares may be obtained at the
Bank.
CITY MUTUAL FIRE INSURANCE
COMPANY, Limited.
Established 1877.
Capital ... £500,000.
Head Office;
25 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY.
A Cash Bonus of 10 per cent, is paid to Policyholders
on renewals every year. Insurances covering Loss by Fire,
Lightning or Gas Explosion at Lowest Rates.
The DIVIDEND of 8 PER CENT, to 31st December,
1889, is now being paid, and the BONUS oi 10 PER
CENT, to Policyholders will, as usual, be paid on re-
newal of their policies.
Money to Lend on Approved Security.
U.B.—The Bonus paid is equal to that paid by any
Fire Company in Sydney.
ROBERT KERR, Manager.
Sydney Canister Works,
COLLINS STREET, SURRY HILLS,
OFF CROWN STREET.
Manufacturers of allkinds of Tinsfor Confectioners.
Tea Merchants, Biscuit Makers, &c., also all kinds
of Tins, round and square , for Pepper, Spice and
Baking Powder, made by improved machinery.
o
A Trial Solicited.
Business Announcements,
ANDREW KING & CO.,
Wholesale Soft Goods Importers and
FLINDERS STREET, MELBOURNE,
Opposite Hobson’s Bay Railway Station.
rpHIS old-established house was opened to the. Public last Monday as the “MODERN
FAMILY WAREHOUSE,” when the rooms were rushed and the doors had to be
closed.
The Press and the Public have pronounced the Opening Day the Greatest Success
ever achieved in Victoria.
The Goods required no pushing, so Customers were not annoyed by salesmen.
Plain Figures and Good Value at once convinced Purchasers of the advantages to
be gained by buying from a Wholesale House ; and now ANDREW KING & CO. take
position of
Premier Drapers in Victoria.
Parcels delivered at Railway Station on opposite side of street, so that you can do
your shopping in shorter time and with more satisfaction by calling at the “MODERN
FAMILY WAREHOUSE ” as you come into town than by going elsewhere.
Note. —The present Stock is being Sold very much under Wholesale Cost, and
Householders should not neglect this rare opportunity of replenishing their stocks.
Lengths and Quantities to suit all. No Second Prices.
Terms Strictly Cash..
Country Orders promptly attended to, and Squatters' Parcels made and sent by return.
Note Address :
“The Modern Family Warehouse,
OPPOSITE HOBSON’S BAY STATION.
o
Ph
Ph
E-h
'PP
PP
E—i
< .
W
Bent, Plilllip & Yoiang Streets, Sydney.
—THE—
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL
FIRE
Insurance Society.
Established ... ••• 1872.
Bonuses
OF
20 per cent. Paid Annually
since 1873.
Head Office
—THE
Oldest Mutual Fire Office
in Australia.
Claims promptly and liberally
settled. Fifteen days’ grace
allowed for Renewal of Policies.
Lowest Current Rates charged.
Hon. George Thornton, M.L.C.,
Chairman.
Head Office:
Corner Pitt & King Streets,
SYDNEY.
Walter Church ... Manager.
Business Announcements.
TURPIN & BRIAN,
Wholesale and Family Grocers,
616 George Street, Sydney,
ARE
REMOVIKTG-
To those Spacious Premises formerly occupied
by R. S. TIGHE, Wholesale Grocer,
623 GEORGE STREET
SYDNEY.
LOOK OUT FOR FUTURE ISSUES.
NOTE THE ADDRESS:
623-George Street—623
Brickfield Hill, SYDNEY.
(Two Doors from Lawler’s. }
UMBRIXLAS
RE-COVERED'.
STUDY ECONOMY
and
Have your Umbrella Frames
Re-Covered, and your
Parasols Re-Lined and made
Equal to New, at
J. SULLIVAN’S,
541 George Street,
Brickfield Hill, Sydney,
between
Liverpool & Bathurst Sts.,
Parasols made to match Cos-
tumes. Repairs neatly done.
GROTH
PAPER-HANGINGS
OiLsXbLOuns* Paints.
WALLPAPERS From roll
P/VI
529 George si/^hurstS/
-— Brickfield Hill .
ULVEEM ACKER’S WORLD-
FAMED GALVANIC BELTS
FOR THE CURE OF
Nervous Exhaustion and Debility, Sciatica,
Lumbago, Rheumatism, &c.,
HAVE received Testimonials from Three
Physicians to Her Majesty the Queen and
the Leading Physicians of many London Hospi-
tals, including over Forty Members of the Royal
College of Physicians of London.
For full Price-list and particulars, see new pam-
phlet “Galvanism: Nature’s Chief Restorer of
Impaired Vital Energy.” Pamphlets Free.
Sole Agents for N.S.W.,
FROST «3c SHIPHAM
ELECTRICIANS,
474 & 587 George Street, Sydney.
Sole Agents for Victoria;
ALLISON BROS., 477 Collins-strket West, Melbourne.
Tin. SMITH, XJ.S.A..,
MEDICAL EXPERT
In PRIVATE COMPLAINTS of BOTH SEXES.
A Prompt and Safe Cure Guaranteed.
CONSULTING ROOMS:
Nos. 7 Si 8 First Floor, 182 GEORGE STREET,
SYDNEY.
I Hours : ... From 11 a. m. till 4 p.m.
CITY & COUNTY
Investment, T ■ and and Bnildin-S
Company, Limiteci.
Authorised Capital, £lOO,OOO ... Reserves and Uncalled Capital, £37,000.
Ratks for Deposits : 12 months, 7 per cent.; 6 months, 6J per cent.; at call, 5 per cent.
Bonus to 12 months’ Depositors.
Directors: J. Garrard, M.P., Hon. J. H. Young, M.P., .T. P. Walker, J.P., John C. Hamilton.
J, D. Ward, Manager, 327 Pitt-street, Sydney.
BANK.
327 PITT STREET, SYEETEY.


The Bulletin
r ol, 11- No. 528.
SATURDAY, MARCH 29, 1890.
Price, 6d.
gj||JP^
d
N.S.W. PUBLIC INSTRUCTION Vide " Plain English.”
“One of the most renowned of Australian explorers was a Captain Stuart.”
“Snakes are not numerous, nor is the arid soil of the continent favourable to their develop-
ment.”
“The kangaroo, which is peculiar to Australia and some of the adjacent islands, has a pouch
under its neck!”
The federation of the colonies of Victoria, South Australia, Western Australia, Queensland and Tasmania is an accomplished fact: the drat meeting
of the Federal Council having been hold at Hobart in January 1886.”— State-approved N.S. W State-school Geographical text-book.


The Bulletin
He National Australian Newspaper.
“ Australia for the Australian's.
Proprietors: BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO.,
Limited.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 21 Pitt-street Sydney, New £outii W ales.
terms TO subscribers
(payable in advance, only).
Per Annum ® ®
Half-yearly "
Quarterly ... U b b
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to he addressed to William Maclbod. Managing Director.
Literary Communications to be addressed to J. F.
Archibald.
The Editor will caref ully read and acknowledge in tne
“ Correspondence 1 ' column all contributions subuuttec
whether in the form of Political, Social, or other Articles,
Verse, Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in
length, or say SOOO words, are specially acceptable).
Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper-Clippings. Al
communications will be regarded as strictly confidential.
“ The Bulletin" will return all unavailable MSS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we
iesire those sending MSS. to distinctly u ndo stand that
we are not responsible for the preservation or transmission
if such MSS.
NOTICE.
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty Shillings
sterling—which you may pay by Post Office Order, One
Pound Note, or Stamps of any Australian colony—you
-an have The Bulletin posted regularly to you every week
for a year.
This offer is not open to residents of Sydney. In that
city The Bulletin is not delivered by mail, but is entirely
in the hands of our earners, with whom we do not uish
to interfere.
SATURDAY, MARCH 29, 1890.
Benevolent Despotism.
Kaiser William of Germany appears to be
not exempt, Emperor though he be, from
the failings of youth. Recent manifestations
of his individuality warrant the conclusion
that he has enthusiasm, which is a virtue
when properly directed, but a foible when
uncontrolled by wisdom. It is manifest,
also, that he has that splendid self-sufficiency
which belongs to immaturity of age and of
sense. The Emperor is “ cock-sure ” that
his ideas are correct and complete. He is
probably not so dead certain as he would
have been had he succeeded to the Throne
at twenty-one, nor by any means so abso-
lutely sure as he would have been at sixteen.
At thirty-one years of age he has conceived
himself superior in knowledge to the almost
octogenarian Bismarck, and undertakes to
wrestle with the most serious problems of
the age, in defiance of the warnings and
remonstrances of that statesmen. “ The old
order changeth, giving place to the new.”
We would not for a moment argue that
because Bismarck is old and of proved
adroitness in managing men of bis time, he
must therefore be the most capable man to
control the affairs of the German people so
long as he lives. Swift, in “Gulliver’s
Travels,” describes an imaginary lot of men
who, in the proportion of perhaps one in
ten thousand of those contemporaneously
born, are endowed with the gift of immor-
tality. The wretched condition of these
reverend persons is well conceived by the
grim satirist. They survive everything as
well as everybody. Their very family name
becomes extinct while yet they linger on.
Their faculties, which had ripened hundreds
of years before, have become fossilized. They
understand nothing of the new conditions by
which they have become surrounded. In-
stead of being venerated as sages, they are
held in disgust, contempt, and almost hatred
by the mortal race amongst whom they con-
tinue to drivel—living spectres. Such, in
some modified degree, is apt to be the con-
dition of any man who exceeds the average
duration of life. Even Bismarck may be
to-day a man behind the times and apt to
apply to present conditions, remedies only
applicable to conditions which have long
since ceased to exist. But although (lysses,
grown old, be no longer fit to draw the
mighty bow which no other man of his gen-
eration could bend, it does not follow that
the man who should carry that awful weapon
to the war is necessarily the eldest son of
Agamemnon —supposing that king of the
Greeks to have left a son. It may well be
that among the fifty millions of the German
people, there may exist a stripling or a man
with intellectual thews and sinews such as
the young Bismarck was gifted with. Bis-
marck, it will be understood, was not born
to lofty station. He was a simple gentleman
merely in a country where all gentlemen are
nobles. There were thousands, his con-
temporaries, of equal rank, and with equal
opportunities. Bismarck thrust his way to
the front by sheer superiority of vigor and
talent. His natural successor, by Divine
right, is yet hid among the German fifty
millions. But the young Kaiser has no glim-
mering of such things. He has been spoon-
fed since he became conscious of his own
existence with the flattering fiction that
Divine right was managed by rule of
thumb and was incarnate in the loins
of monarchs. To him it would appear a
sort of blasphemy of the Almighty’s
immutable decrees, to consider for even a
moment that the monarch among his fellows
was undisclosed in the empire—that his
sovereign brows, all uncrowned, were per-
chance bending over a grocer’s counter or
sweating at the forge. Kaiser William’s
father and grandsire were the hereditary
masters of the wisest of their day. Heredity
is divine ; hence he (William) is endowed
from above with qualities which justify him
in overruling any lesser wisdom than his
own,
* * *
There are a number of very singular
reflections which present themselves in con-
nection with this unavoidable conceit of
kings and kaisers. Every monarch who is
not by constitutional usage compelled to
Submit to the counsel of the national states-
men, assumes that it is his function to
superintend their wisdom and qualify it by
a sagacity of a superior order. But the
absurdity of this pretension, that hereditary
succession to a throne carries with it an
inspired pre-eminence in statecraft, never
seems to occur to the individuals chiefly
concerned. There is no chance, except
under most extraordinary circumstances, of
instituting comparisons. In the few in-
stances which afforded such opportunity, the
lesson is significant enough. Cromwell, the
ex-brewer, was one of the best generals, and
certainly the most capable ruler who ever
sat on the throne—in fact, although not in
form —of England. William 111., usurper,
was a more capable ruler than James 11.,
king by the grace of God, whom he dis-
placed. Indeed, there is a rule almost in-
variable which should be taught every
princeling as a lesson in common sense :
That every usurper has been an abler
ruler than the monarch he supplanted. Still
the difficulty of direct comparison, applic-
able to the actual Sovereign ruling, is insur-
mountable, and consequently, every born
King or Emperor fancies himself specially
blessed by Heaven with talents equal to his
station. A horde of flatterers infests courts
and by their miserable panderings rub the
rotten unction into the very bones of heirs-
apparent. It might be conceived that the
fact of their inferiority in every department
of life in ivhich competition with them on
equal terms is feasible would have a
moderating effect on the minds of Princes.
But no such influence can be traced. Wil-
liam, of Germany, must perceive that there
are many of his subjects who can draw
better, w r ho can shoot truer, who can beat
him at chess, who can think more clearly,
reason more logically, who know more of a
thousand subjects. Yet he is ready to shut
his ears to the remonstrances and warnings
of the admittedly most sagacious statesman
in Europe, and to enter upon a career of ex-
perimental Government which Bismarck
dare not contemplate.
# # #
The Emperor William has now, despite
the warnings of Bismarck, entered upon a
conflict. He dares to oppose to a march of
ideas which has been gathering force for
somewhat more than a century, his own
little collection of personal ideas, supple-
mented in his supposition by the organised
force of a Government and a stupendous
army. It has not occurred to him assuredly
to consider whether that army is his, or
whether it may not really belong to the very
propaganda which he has undertaken to con-
quer. His conception evidently is that he
can conquer the people by contorting them.
He will throw Capital to the wolves, and ex-
pects the pack which threatens to devour
monarchy to become thereupon converted
into curs licking the hand which throws them
offal. He is the modern Canute in idiot c
earnest commanding the tide of events to
recede at his command, because courtiers
have taught him that to perform such a
miracle is one of his sovereign attributes.
He expects to conquer Socialism by opposing
to it a benevolent despotism. He intends
to be the only revolutionary in his Empire.
He intends to sow the winds and expects to
escape reaping the whirlwind. He presents
the world with a paradox ; his policy is to be
simultaneously progressive and reactionary,
liberal and despotic. The burdens of his
subjects are to be lightened, but he and his
order are still to ride on their backs.
* * *
Let us see what are the principles and
ideas to which the young Emperor ventures
to set bounds. The Socialist doctrines
are stated by various authorities, but are
never inconsistent in the essentials. John
Sketchley, the English Socialist, defines
authority thus; —
All authority comes from that aggregation of indivi-
duals we term the people. All authority which claims to
he higher than the people is usurpation. It may speak in
the name of heaven or in the language of the sword, but
whatever emanates not from the people is not binding on
the people. No ! not even though it speak with the
authority of the ages, or with the wisdom of the sagos.
Usurpation is the highest crime of which anyone or any
body of people can he guilty. . . Monarchy in all its
forms, whatever the name by which it is known, however
modified or limited by practiee, is still usurpation. The
usurper may be benevolent or qf good intentions. What
then? It is not a question of benevolence or of good
intentions, but of right, of eternal justice. Socialism
scorns the defensive to-day. It arraigns monarchs and
despotisms ; it charges them with breaches of the highest,
the natural, the fundamental laws, and defies them to
clear themselves. These laws it finds not indeed in any
national code, but in that grander codification, the iden-
tity of idealisms among the most disinterested and illu-
minated of mankind. It quotes the prophets.
Michael Bakouine, the Russian, testifies :
What is authority? Is it the inevitable power of the
natural laws which manifest themselves in the necessary
concatenation and succession of phenomena in the phy-
sical and social worlds ? . . . We recognise, then, the
absolute authority of science, because the sole object of
science is the mental reproduction, as well-considered and
systematic as possible, of the natural laws inherent in the
material, intellectual, and moral life of both the physical
and social worlds; these two worlds constituting, in
fact, but one and the same natural world. Outside of this
sole legitimate authority, legitimate because rational and
in harmony with human nature, we declare all other
authorities false, arbitrary, and fatal.
Socialism wars with human slavery, under
whatever disguise slavery may seek to con-
ceal itself. Slavery may be defined as the
subordination of the will or inclinations of
one man, or more, to the will of any other
man or men. Rousseau, who may bo re-
garded as the herald of Socialistic ideas, has
thus declared the natural law of liberty :
“ The Sovereignty, being only the exercise
of the general will, can never be alienated ;
and the Sovereign, which is a collective
being, can be represented only by itself.”
The Socialists are not fools or ignorant.
They have ransacked the stored wisdom of
the ages, and array in justification of their
principles the greatest thinkers of all epochs.
Their primary principles were not only pro-
mulgated by the ancients, but are a not-to-be
eliminated portion of Scriptural teachings,
and in comparatively modern times they
have Milton, Locke, Helvetius, Rousseau,
Diderot, Yoltaire, Paine, Sieves, Las-
salle, Marx, and many others in their ranks.
Against the mighty flood of modern thought
and movement, this one confident young man
sets his crude theories and qualified benevo-
lence, in opposition. Wesay advisedly ‘ ‘quali-
fied ” benevolence, because that is searcely a
benevolence without bounds which contem-
plates “crushing” such people as oppose
the particular plan of the benefactor. Wil-
liam the Emperor has put his hand to a lever
which sets into accelerated motion a vast
machinery a machinery so stupendous
that a veteran engineer, such as Bis-
marck, never aspired to control its
movements when once set in revolu-
tion. William is now face to face with
fifty millions of expectant and observant
people. When Christ gathered around Him
a great multitude who hungered and looked
to Him for food, He filled them by performing
a miracle. William spontaneously arro-
gates a like position. He assumes the
position of Saviour of the labouring classes.
If he fail now —and for him, despite his
divine right, no miracle is possible—he will
surely be torn to pieces.
The Almighty Yank.
Charles Lamb once humorously wrote that when-
ever he doubted or disbelieved anything he sought
for the incredible statement in a book; and if he
found it there, no matter how revolting to his in-
tellect that statement might be, he accepted the
authority of the printed page- as final, and dis-
charged his mind of all further worry about the
matter. The Sydney Echo, like all respectable,
spoon-fed, small-sized number-twos in mental
capacity, never doubts, never disbelieves; it
swallows whole and at sight. The authority, not
so much of the printed page of a book as the
printed broad-sheet of any obscure advertising-
medium in any obscure corner of the world, outside
Australia, is good enough to quote from, to lecture
upon, and to indulge in asinine exuberance over.
Recently it read in some nameless Yankee print
that “Ike Weir, whom Murphy, the blew Zea-
lander, defeated in the States, is a most accom-
plished pugilist. He is a first-class jockey, can
shoot copper cents from between his wife’s fingers,
plays the piano, is an expert swimmer (having
saved two lives) dances jigs, sings character-songs,
and . . • has written a play called ‘ Muscle
Wins a Wife.’” The Echo takes all this in as
pure gospel, and “ rapturises ” in a hilarious
fashion over such an “Admirable Crichton” as
the aforementioned Ike Weir.
# * *
Now we know the Yankee; we have studied
him in all his moods and in many of his haunts,
and we have a moderately good idea of what
Yankee “ cuelteure ” means. We do not deny
that America has produced precious and splendid
intellects ; that her Emersons and Drapers, her
Longfellows and Poes, her Danas, Channings
and Prescotts, can take their places side by side
with their European confreres in their own mental
domains, and suffer nothing by comparison. But
the “ universal ” Yankee is a delusion and a snare,
and all high-falutin accounts of him must be taken
cum “junko ” ml in. The average American citizen
knows something of everything; of every art,
science, industry, and swindle in the world he has
some sort of smattering; unfortunately, he
imagines he could “ run the whole show at a
moment’s notice, and would not hesitate (if he
could be shown that it was a paying “spec.”) to
undertake a new series of Homeric poems, Shake-
spearian plays, Miltonic ethics, or Icelandic
eddas. He is always probing into the past with
his inquisitorial walking-stick, and clearing up the
mysteries of the ages. He has proved beyond a
doubt —to his own satisfaction—the existence of
Plato’s Atlantis; he has demonstrated that all
Biblical myths, and all other myths, point to the
fact that the earth was struck by a comet before
there ever were any Yankees, and that if the
Yankees had existed at the time, uo damage
would have been done, but the comet would have
been utilised in some way or other as a motive
power for running machinery to make wooden
hams and assisting the States to “ boss creation.”
All over the world’s surface haye we met, the
shrewd, plausible; polite, pushing, diamond-
studded, nasal-speeched, immaculately-dressed
Yankee schemer, and he has always been the same
admirable humbug. . He knows little, but it is a
little about everything, and he combines it so
kaleidoscopically, and spreads it over so wide asur
face that he succeeds in convincing his hearers that
it amounts to a vast deal. He honestly believes that
he has been born into the world to lighten our dark-
ness He deceives himself, and hence manages to
deceive others witli the greater success. He
speaks out of the void of his nothingness as one
having authority and not as the .lavs. The ease
with which he “masters” some art or science
hitherto unknown to him is wonderful. He carries
a small edition of “Webster” in his coat-tail
pocket and dispenses short “tales” from his dic-
tionary right and left, and, like Wokdswoeth’s
hero, of whom “the wonder grew that one small
head could carry all he knew,” succeeds in im-
posing with wonderful effect upon the acutest
minds not nurtured on the superficial-measurement
and sheet-lightning principle. As a book-can-
vasser he puts a chain about the earth in a 1 uck-
like fashion, and seriously contemplates the
peddling of an expensively gotten-up, muoh-be-
gilt bibliopegic monstrosity on the starry path to
Paradise. As a public figure he serves an appren-
ticeship to life in the various rules of bargee, rail-
splitter, shopkeeper, volunteer captain, lawyer,
politician, state-governor, and president, and
claims the range of universal culture as his
domain. In Heaven to-morrow he would nego-
tiate a syndicate for the taking over the entire
Cosmos, and firmly believes that the sidereal
system coukl be better managed by a “ ring ” in
Chicago than by the intelligences that have
it at present in hand. In everything he under-
takes, plausibility transmutes ignorance _ to
gold—and still he goes on his way rejoicing,
shaking his well-powdered locks at fate. As the
representative of his “ mighty ” Republic he
unwinds himself at various nondescript “social
functions” in speeches about everything and
nothing, compiled from the übiquitous pocket
“ Webster,” a ready reckoner, and the “ Com-
plete Letter-writer ;” but they are always
florid, and always complimentary and “cal-
culated ” not to harm the sensibilities of a
bacterial atom, nor to interrupt for a single
second “those harmonious relations,” &c., which
are the imperative “dollars and cents” of his
free and fertile Yankee soul. Oh! and with
what a small capital he does it! How well he has
mastered the arts of advertising, gulling, flatter-
ing, bamboozling, and bulldozing! Prom Bae-
num to Ignatius Donnelly, he stretches in one
unbroken chain of magnificent impudence, and
his career on the faee of the earth is the apotheosis
of sublimated humbug ! Years ago, Buckle
wi’ote :
In America we see a country of which it has been
truly said that in no other are there so few men of great
learning and so few men of great ignorance. . . .
The stoek of Amer ican knowledge is small, but it is spread
through all classes.
Culture is readily amassed by a people who set out
with a low standard, and any man vvho can spell
with the aid of a dictionary, who can sing one song
without missing a verse, who can play “ Nelly
Bly ” on the piano with one hand, who knows that
“ comment vous pcrtez is French for
“ How’dy,” who can repeat , the multiplication-
table up to twelve-times-twelve, who has read
the definitions to Euclid’s first book of geometry,
and who has a fresh and free acquaintance with
Dickens and Beet Haute, can write himself
down, an’ he be a Yank, a gentleman and a
scholar, a man of culture, erudition and refine-
ment, an etymologist, an orthoepist, an ortho-
graphist, a musician, a linguist, an arithmetician,
a geometrician and a literary student. We have
met many such universal intellects from across
the Pacific, and each and every one of them would
have considered himself grossly insulted and
outraged if his claims to universality and the
salthood of creation had once been called in ques-
tion. They reckoned they'd been there, and knew
pretty well what the running was like; they’d
come “ reight in and sot deown an’ wrote their
ad-dresses in the intel-leetooal book of leife, an’
don't yoeu forgit it.”
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Freetrade in Geography.
“Australian Geography as she is .taught by the
English Professor,” is not, but ought to be, the
title of one of the last new books which has
received the approval of Mr. CarruthßßS, the
N.S.W. Minister for Education. It is the accepted
geographical text-book in the High and Btate
schools of the province, and on that ground alone
claims attention. As set forth in the title page, it
is “A class book of modern geography by William
Hughes, F.R.G.S., late Professor of Geography
at King’s College, London. Being a new and en-
enlarged edition by J. Francon Williams,
F.R.G.S.” And it is published by George Philip
and Son, 32 Fleet-street, London, 1889 (last year).
Parents and guardians of the boys who are now
undergoing the process of training as possible
successors to Minister Cahruthbrs will therefore
be likely to take considerable interest in this book
and will be delighted to learn that out of the 400
pages of which it consists 10 whole pages are
actually devoted to Australia. And the wealth
of information contained in these 10 pages com-
prise the few following items among quite a
variety of others of almost equal importance m
the face of the assertion made in the preface that
one of the feature of the book is “thorough
revision and completeness,” and that the informa-
tion contained in it is of “the latest and most
reliable character.” It tells us that:
One of the most renowned of Australian explorerers was
a Captain Stuart! ~ .. .
That snakes are not numerous, nor is the and sou or
the continent favourable to their development!
That the kangaroo, which is peculiar to Australia ana
some of the adjacent? islands, has a pouch under its neck.
That the federation' of the colonies of Victoria, South
Australia, Western Australia, Queensland and Tasmania is
an acaoi uplinked fast ; the first meeting of the Federal
Council having been held at Hobart in January 1880 !
Be it remembered that these novelties are con-
tained in a book* tbs .use of which is sanctioned
for the education of young Australia, and that
after all they are only a trifle worse than the state-
ments made by some glorified ass of a globe-trotter
who wrote a book on “Colonial Facts and
Fancies,” which is nqw being largely sold at tha
railway bookstalls in England. In the latter, kanga-
roos are described as being “ like gigantic cwokets
covered with hair, some of them having pouches
in which they carry provisions.” Also that a
boomerang is an instrument used by the natives to
catch fish with.” However little damage that)
sort of slush may be calculated to do to the
average Englishman on a railway journey, the
efficacy of educating the young Australian out
of Professor William Hughes’ “Class Book oi
Modern Geography ” is somewhat questionable.
Hinglish Governors are but a negative evil m vie
of the fact that they will shortly become extinct;
Hinglish shoddy is a positive advantage to tne
wealthy ring which supports and runs the T rc
trade policy ; but Hinglish geography, as con-
tained in this truly remarkable volume, poin
straight to the necessity for Mr. Minister CA
ruthers being cornered on the subject or
opinions as to £l5OO a year and “ perks being »
fair deal for the perpetration of such an imqi y
as this.


A Seat on the Foard.
" W ’? M l \ c^ er ® tand that Hon. William M‘Millan,
tlie i\.S. W. I reasurer, has joined tho Sydney Board
of Directors of the Equitable Life Assurance
Society of New York. ” Thus a brief paragraph
m the commercial columns of the daily press
recently. This is yet another proof of the astute-
ness of Mil R. Horn Atkinson, Sydney manager
of the Equitable Insurance Co,, aforesaid. There
is a well-founded and increasingly-popular belief
that one of the legislative necessities of the time is
a Lite Insurance Regulation Statute, which shall
compel foreign Societies, trading in Australia (e.a.
ihe Equitable of New York), to give ample finan-
cial security as to their ability and willingness to
meet all claims against them, whether under
policies or for services rendered (c.g. in the case of
one Davis against the Equitable of New York).
And there is also a popular belief that the new
treasurer {i e., the Hon. William M'Millan)
lias promised to introduce early next session such
a measure, and that if he does so, and is success-
tul ui securing its passage, one of the Societies
winch will have to come down with a thumping
iai .'g® amount of security will be the afore"
said Lqui table of New York. And now there is a
popular curiosity to learn whether Mr. M‘Millan
can introduce a measure of the kind without
quoting (as an illustration of its necessity the
attitude adopted by the Equitable of New York
in the case of .Davis aforesaid. And yet further
is there a popular feeling which is a combination
of both curiosity and conviction, and which ex-
presses itsejf thus :—lf Mr. R. Hope Atkinson
has been clever enough to obtain the advertising
support of Mr. M'Millan’s name to his local
Board he will assuredly, as in honour and business
bound, do his level best to persuade Treasurer
M Millan to make the desired bill as “soft” as
possible. Mr. M ‘Millan is thought in mercantile
circles to be a smart man, but he doesn’t arise
early enough to get to windward of a Yankee
insurance-agent. Had the Mac Million been
more level-headed he would have kept off that
Board till the new Insurance measure was intro-
duced, or, at all events, would have kept that item
of news out of the papers.
Only Nihilists.
Foe some time past the cabled news from London
has comprised various items to the effect that
representations have been made to the British
Government that in its capacity of universal
benefactor, it is incumbent upon it to take some
action with respect to the massacres of political
prisoners in Siberia. But the Government has
not recognised that any duty devolved upon it
in this instance. Indeed, it might expose the
Government to inconvenient retorts were it to
assume the high moral tone with regard to treat-
ment of political prisoners. The Government of
the Czar would assuredly make unpleasant refer-
ences to the treatment of Irish Home Rulers were
Her Majesty s Government to make impertinent
representations about the massacres in Siberia.
Ihe most singular feature of the incident, how-
ever, so far as Australians are concerned, is
that more than a fortnight elapsed after the
first vague allusions to the massacres, before
any particulars as to their nature were cabled.
And when at length those particulars w"ere forth-
coming how exquisitely they are adjusted to
soften down the asperities of the actual facts.
Accoidmg to the fe. M. Herald, there has been a
massacre of Nihilists. This creates a prejudice at
the start. These men, it is said, refused obedience
and fought the troops. These depraved characters
not content with the unspecified crimes for which
they were exiled, evinced the irrepressible
character of their brutal natures by—establishing
a printing press. For this atrocity a benignant
Government inflicted only the mild penalty
of deportation to the Polar coast. The
hardened criminals, on the shallow pretence
that this was equivalent to sentence of death
by slow torture, refused to budge. Troops
were sent to make them. Now under these
circumstances in N.S. Wales, policemen would
be employed and they would carry the recalci-
trant offender wherever he wouldn’t walk. But
m ‘Siberia troops are employed, and their plan is
to prod obstinate persons with bayonets. These
persons actually resented this application. This
annoyed the troops, of course. They were ob-
structed in the performance of their duty and
had their uniforms torn. They prodded
deeper. The bayonets went, perhaps, through a
tow obstructive persons. Then some troops were
wantonly killed. Nothing more reasonable, un-
der the circumstances, than that they should at
once massacre the lot. It’s a mere trifle. Eight
Imes of mild language suffices for tiie S. M.
Herald, and no comment is considered necessary"
When Lord Leitrim was shot in Ireland for
debauching his tenants’ daughters, there were
more than eight lines, though, and there was con-
siderable comment on the outrage—of shooting
the debaucher, we mean, not of debauching the
girls. °
Fossil Journalism.
Says the Sydney Morning Herald, with its
and splendid confidence in the
infallibility of statements that have been confuted
on every platform, in every newspaper in the
world :
It is nothing to the person who would divide up the
world s capital, and give everyone a fresh start on equal
terms, that within a month from the dale of such an ex-
periment the inequalities of mankind would he»in to
assert themselves again.
This writer’s knowledge of political economy, con-
sists apparently solely of a study of that novel of
Captain Marryats, wherein a certain “ Equality ”
Bill or Jack figures conspicuously. We hasten
to mform him that the Communist, the ‘Socialist
the Land-nationalisationist, the Single-taxer do
not propose to divide the world’s now existing
capital equally, do not propose to “level down”
but to level up, merely desire to inaugurate a
state °f things wherein a greater share of the
world g product remain in the hands of producer.
1 he sapient surface-scratcher asserts that • -
The Land-nationaliser makes no allowance for that all-
powerful instinct of earth-hunger in man that spurs him
on to work for the acquisition of land, and nerves him to
e «° r ‘ on ?' e he has attained the conscious-
ess that he has the land behind him. It is the desire to
possess land that opens up new countries, just as it is the
•mse of the inequality of social conditions that has sug-
sosted all human effort and won all human attainment.
This is the veriest rot; “ earth-h linger ” is not a
tmsire to obtain land for its own sake, but for that
winch comes out of it, or a wish to escape paying
J enfc » one of the heaviest burdens of the worker If
Gind-nationaflisationism, or the Single-tax. or
entire freedom in land-owning, allow the worker
easy access to the soil and freedom from heavy
l ’ent burdens, his appetite for the earth will be
eoinpletely satisfied with a life title. As for
. Imman effort,” the possession of certain powers
is enough to ensure their use; the world’s best
work, whether it be of poet, philosopher, painter
seer, explorer, or reformer, has almost invariably
ueen inadequately requited, so far as coinpensa-
tion in the world’s goods is concerned. Talents
may not be buried in a napkin; they always
demand and invariably obtain expression and
outlet. riio Herald should really get hold
11 . s °meone who is not a hundred years
Delnnd modern thought, who knows something of
political economy, and who can discern “the
thing from the words that overlie it.
*
Iraki, ul outrages continue to characterise White
justice as it is meted out to the suffering negro in
Georgia and some of the other Southern States of
the American Union ; but, to the credit of the
blackmail be it said, like the London docker dur-
mg ie recent strike, lie refuses to retaliate in
Linci. in proof of The Bulletin’s contention that
OI^ tlo “ °. f th « States could be
f P 1 e ‘'■ Africa without the commission
n<) , t , the shedding of a drop of
white or black blood, without misery or siiffer-
coToiired rV k, . nd to an y bod y. the recent
coloured citizens mass-meeting in Columbia,
adduced. At this representative
m d IU , :1 "; as organised to take action
m regaid to the lynching of their fellows, various
imolutums were adopted strenuously urging
TTidnif fTt other coloured men throughout the
, * n . ot f to hold indignation meetings, nor to
further 1 a of ■retaliation, and they were
u° f ek residences in other sections
H»A. anf tate V U !u elsewhere , and thus to commend
then action to the attention of all thoughtful men
extemdnnC he W ° rld l Evidentl Y if a race war of
to™ ™ - vere ensue . or any difficulty
America a > S6 setfch , n 8' the negro problem in
,u ’ ' C °i u l d Ilot be laid at the door of the
h iffin L Population as their conciliatory be-
haviour has done nothing but prepare the way to
an amicable arrangement by deportation. “
Mr Joseph Thompson , of Masai-land fame, lec-
tm mg at a Y. M. C. A. meeting in Edinburgh before
mlshWhat h' 2 i° o<) Ti®’ recently ’ said, after pre-
f hls knowledge of the subject was the
truit of personal observation and not of hearsay
reports or missionary-magazine narratives, that—
cerned'instP-m1^ 6 -! 001 ! 1 ' 8 - 6 witl ?, the Afdca “ race was con-
ceined instead of its being a blessing, it had been little
better than an unmitigated curse to them The
nature of our commerce with Africa had consisted chiefly
we“had g triprl''i der ’ f-‘ dg ' UnS ’ alon gside of which the good
as a t0 n ach fve was hardly discernible. Taken
as a whole, our trading stations were centres of
corruption moral and physical. Over the door
ways of hundreds of traders might he inscribed -
Drunk for a penny, dead drunk for twopence-” only
Tradfnl f ° r *?°j hln g” would ha ye to be left out
Trading ships were laden with gin out of all proportion to
tb ®, carria g e of useful articles. The air seemed to reek
with the vile stuff, and the gin-bottles and boxes met the
fi 7 Sfcep ‘ ° ne result of the introduction of gin
mm and flrearms was seen m the backward condition of
boast negro, who had been transformed into the
most villainous and treacherous being in Africa.
We will now take up a collection for carrying rum
and gospel to the pore heathen.
1 hat standard work, “The Dictionary of National
Biography, has reached vol. xxi., in which the
life of (tEorce IV. is given in marvellously tren-
chant style Queen Victoria bitterly complained
if the publication of the “ Greville Memoirs”
disparaging her beautiful uncle, but the “National
biography, a work found in every public library
brings into focus every damaging fact about this
contemptible, selfish dog, ’ a* Greville calls
him. He had some queer habits. Though always
in want of money, it was found after his death
that he had £lO,OOO stowed away in 100 pocket-
books, and forgotten, and he kept all his old
clothes for 50 years, like Queen Elizabeth.
Amu! the mistresses of this Solomon, George
IV., were three ladies of the peerage-Ladies
Jersey, Hertford, and Conyngham, besides his
proper wife, Mrs. Fitzherbert, Perdita Robin-
son, and 11 others, whose names are given by the
biographies, and two more names not given
making 18 regular mistresses, at one time or other
wlule the temporaries were innumerable. After
the death of this Adonis his executors burnt an
incredibly enormous mass of love-letters, locks of
hair, and other feminine tokens. “Lead us not
into temptation ’ is a direct injunction by the
Lord s 1 rayer against creating such idols askings
and princes. I hey tempt and are tempted. Even
Graham Berry couldn’t stand being a prince.
The crux of the Single-tax problem is simply
this (1.) Ihe object of the Single-tax is to ab-
sorb (».e., to take away) the whole speculative
vane of land (2.) But it is this speculative
value on which the tax is to be levied. (3.) Then
m proportion as the Single- tax achieves its object
so it destroys the source whence the tax is to be
derived, which, as the inventor of the Pons
Asmorum has it, is absurd. We are quite aware
that it is the rental value ” which the Georgeites
nope to confiscate, but except with reference to a
comparatively few city sites, the “rental value”
terms 6 ' specublfc ' ve vable ” must be convertible
—
Here is a point upon which explanation is
demanded from the New South Wales Single-
taxers. It is notorious that the man who has
the most money of all their number is a
secretary of a Budding Society which is largely
interested m suburban lots. These lots it is the
policy of the company—a policy for which the
aforesaid secretary is directly responsible—to hold
tor a rise in their speculative value. Now, this
holding for a “rise in speculative values ” is de-
nounced by Henry George as immoral. But if it
be immoral, how can the Building Society-man
prove his consistency as a Single-tax advocate’
H it be not immoral, why does he consent to
Henry George saying it is ? The relation of the
Building Society-man to the question is not one
personal to himself alone, because it is no secret
that it was largely owing to his immediate influ-
enoein the Councils of that lugubrious gathering
the first Single-tax Conference, that its members
supported Mr. M Millan’s proposal to sell the
suburban lands to wipe out the deficit.
*
Mr. Justice Stephen (New South Wales) refused
to enlighten a jury who wanted to know what Her
Majesty s pleasure meant. J udge Williams, in
Victoria, took the opposite course the other dav
but apparently for a different reason. George
Day was on trial for a capital assault upon a
woman, his cousin. He declared to the Almighty
that he was innocent. The Judge in chare-ino-
death°bi,?if m ih hat f hfc for t,le c nme was
death, but if they found the prisoner guilty he
would simply record death” and leave the
Executive to measure the imprisonment. “ That
gentlemen, said the Judge, “will make your
duty easier. And straight away the jury found
the man gin'ty, the chances being that but for the
Judges feeler, they would have acquitted him.
Moral: Hanging ,s a failure-and some of the
Judges know it.
■*.
Another Australian ecclesiastical preferment,
tne Ballarat Archdeaconry, is being hawked
S 1 s!v gllsh , cler £/> and contemptuously re-
cWv,lt f t alld sundry. The mere fact of a
alisolute V' S amm » in Australia is an
oual fir f ga,n , sfc advancement. The proper
liush is to h, v W a le ading_man in the Australian
mustv li’nfri; , e , s JP ent his life on his haunches in a
B afi, i ibr *T. Put 'r iu ,;
Pm. t i dear, the privations !”
Wh it sorf- f Wa ’fl ? ut (d a London parish,
of NewcasHe afi dld they make Wlfc h the Bishop
TvkrfTl ? * Th« a mc ? essor t 0 thc energetic
fcy oi/ a “„S
i " to L
Origin of the late Portuguese trouble in 4frio‘i
BrS'tt Mn G ? SCHKN :- Chancellor of the
-British Exchequer, who ought to know
Our missionaries are at Nyassa, and they find them
S«: r t d,)yAr ? Slave Allied and they
, U i! S - „ Ho l v 9 an . they get them? They must be
ll i le Zam hesi Hirer, and Portugal refused week by
arms thmu^hTh 11 - by Ul ’. to P ermit the passage of
th«i rf B K their coast territories, because they thought
»awS? y 80 doin g gam supremacy. By refusing the
them and f n «wu th6 f kop . ed the stations would come to
them and ask them to assist them to beat off the Arab
but w< B sbo r m i? hey refl, scd to listen to earnest language,
hod nl Uld , h , av f used earne «t language, indeed, if we
had not been able to carry our point. (Loud cheers.)
the ram-bottle has been abandoned
the LHRiST-hke missioner ” in favour of the
epeatmg-rine as a means of converting “ the pore
.f a u y i % and the wretched Portugee basely
attempts to prevent the spread of the new Gospel
in bouth Africa A collection will now be taken,
dear brethren. Our missionaries on Lake Nyassa
want arms. ”
I° f event V n the Transvaal is calcu-
lated to shake even Jingo faith in Imperialism.
00 tong as England claimed control over the
country there was an everlasting trouble with it.
England accordingly retired, and now the Dutch
president discovers that the English are, by mere
Tr-fna ° f i P o P" lafcl °n, peacefully annexing the
1 ran&vaal for themselves. The difference between
annexation by the Crown and annexation by the
Beople is as great as the difference between loyalty
T„o-iAi‘ ghlnd ' ( mean, ng V.R.) and loyalty to the
Bngiish meaning the common, everyday people
such as created the prosperity of Australia. For-
getting then, the History of Botany Bay for a
moment, we may lay it down as a great fact that
n pioneers represent the English, and our vice-
regal personages represent “ England.” Here, in
Australia, we make the mistake of saying that an
M English, when really
uoHca S g S d i Sb ’/ OU , kr ; ow - Coes the reader
notice it ? Ihe bonds which bind us to the Eng-
lish are our uncles, our cousins, and our aunts, and
our capital advanced by them. Those silken
and d fbe H lCh l bind US fc -° ” are Governors,
and the black memories of a convict system.
The much-advertised Mr. G. W. Rusden is angry
because a few writers in English magazines Rave
been misled into assuming that a taste for human
“ 3 t , ls q } l^ e common among Australian abor-
iginals After explaining that Carl Lumholtz’s
men-eating blaclcs of North (Queensland are tropi-
cal, Mr. Rusden says : “ It would be hard to
accuse the English of being cannibals because a
few years ago a poor English boy was devoured by
his countrymen in a boat. I doubt whether any
necessity would have brought an Australian to
such a pass Hungry almost to death, an Aus-
tiahan wouW if food were given him, divide it
equaUy with hns companion.” The above is a
childish bit of uncalled-for “skite.” Maddened
by the pangs of hunger, the internal fires of
thirst and the strange influence of sea-air upon a
shipwrecked constitution, an Australian would do
the same as any other kind of white man. Appe-
tite has no conscience worth mentioning, and the
Australian appetite for meat is especially keen
As for Rusden s irrelevant remark that starving
Australians would share and share alike- well,
didn t those English sailors divide their boy into
equal portions ? Let us stick up for our country,
but never blow on the great meat question.
From S.A. Advertiser
young MAN required to do a round and
ley street' references lec l u >red.-L. Conrad, 90, Hind-
The butchers seem to be competing with the police.
Miss Von Finkelstein, the Oriental
lecturess, has just been married to Air. Mount-
ford, a well-known resident of Lahore, India. As
Miss Yon F told a Sydney man when last she
was here that she had had innumerable proposals
of marriage, Mr. Mountford must consider him-
self a much-favoured individual. Samples of the
wedding-cake have reached Sydney. -
Ihc first Victorian Native elected to the
Parliament of that colony was William Nelson
MCann, who represented South Grant with
Reter Lai or m the early sixties, and was known
in the House as the Native Companion ” He
committed forgery and got a long sentence, and
after his release went to California, where under
another name, he fully redeemed himself.
When a certain much-talked-of lady calls
for her hubby at the office of the Premier of one
of the colonies, and hubby is engaged she is
accommodated with a chair in the ante-room, in
winch is shelved a tolerable collection of books.
Ihe intervals of waiting the lady invariably
spends in turning the pages of a thick volume
“ j t is the stenographic
report of the lilton-Beccher trial.
Queen Victoria’s father, the Duke of Kent
once endeavoured to put down drunkenness in the
army, by ordering his subalterns, when drilling
tneir companies, to take an opportunity of smelling
the soldiers’ breath in order to see if they had
been drinking spirits. The Duke of Wellington
however, ridiculed the order, pointing out that a
subaltern with a cold in his head would be unfit to
go on duty, and so it was never carried out.
Will I. Sowden, one of the members of
the recent Australian Natives’ Conference at
Melbourne, subsequently attended the Federal
Convention as representative of the S.A. Register
Ho writes an article in the local Anglican Review
m which he states that the oratory and the argu-
ments at the Natives’meetings were quite eouai
to those of Parkes and Co. He ought to know
too, for he was the principal speaker for the
JNatives,
An English writer says that Parnell has
never been willing to sit in a room where three
candles were alight; green, though the patriotic
line, he has always professed to hold unlucky He
can tolerate nothing green. The green slippers,
the green braces, the green-trimmed dressing-
gowns, that unknown enthusiasts shower on the
Irish leader, are all buried in cupboards out of
sight and when the freedom of Dublin city was
about to be conferred on him he requested that
the lining of the casket might not be green.
J tuple like the heather, he suggested, was his
favourite colour, and eminently fortunate.
A Woman’s Grievance.
when Amlie Hi » is rather ungenerous
„, i A the members of the N.S.W. Typo
comloctfif umT . 10 '! W,th “““anliness and prejudice in
with that ' lu^ nt ( ‘^ or t to become connected
WeknownT ’'tn MI , SS 11 n ~ or advisers-must
fudSg from^h^" 1 r S^,,e V° fe^le^»>PoBstoS, d nor,
ss£a sins
sft» fiar arss
'Jilt a moral polnt of view 1 ara certain that
aS n^f“ e3peCla t y l ! 1,0r ' ii,IK newspaper-officers
ate not pioper avenues tor the employment of females ■
wete*l MISS Hill ’ S opinion t 0 the contrary. And
. e .. 1 toa ?. k the sympathisers of female employment in
fu Peclally 'I the -V were fathers, and
thewo. .1 circumstances, whether
thev u n i 1 th ® ,r own daughters to be so employed,
; f " d t “ swe ! This question I have put to
Fioni’ ,1? i' eply as '"vanably been to that effect.
•< v , lBw «>e coniposfcig-room is
arc bnlli i*.’®, °, fe “ lale ?- Asa general rule they
arran™nL badly lighted, and the sanitary
the hfahh o fmf f nerally of sueh a nature as to impair
i„ ® fera,i» a fln stror '£ es,t lnen - The principle of eiiiploy-
ou d an o.u 686 dei l s the - v b«ng the weaker sex--
for Lfon in ;^ 60 / 1 huln amty, for it would unfit them
ahotted to th hG doni !? t;c duties which nature lias
encoumo’ement S'f An . othel ' ob J ec tion I have to the
experience tho, f female , col »Positors is that, from mv
empTovers- mon y f e by unsci-upulous
for\ho • 1116 " 10 want the maximum amount of work
to be mi s "thi 1 a ' noUnt r of pay V aad sbould they require
the craft 'n,, 8 ? ai i le late as their male companions of
tne craft though I never heard of such a case—their
comnmnd W f°be d b<3 dispens f ed with - Females could not
command the same rules of remuneration as men for in
and e phvsicallt“ f t6n m ey f® unreliabl e and incompetent,
fn d connecHon n ‘f. apable of performing some of the duties
niaioritv of thi t! ', a pril ' tl,lk ' establishment. In a
emnlovcfl tmf f ®"’ p]aces where female compositors are
enqiloved, the printing trade has become demoralised
wfth a flmilv a f Vatlon rat r eS -’ and the life of a compositor
vvith a family to support is not worth living. Beim-
herself h c°ame le * us ak e th « city from whence Miss Hill
herf Mks Wlf U t C h t nd ' The Evemng Stab ” there,
the nnrscrvS^ iU, I believe, served her apprenticeship, is
tT f yf ! ir compositors.” And are they paid
tLrr 1 u e , rate aa the men ? Certainly not. Henrv
imid baho,', l i e !ff ed t 0 L u lld hls fol 'tune out of the undef-
KST *■ a r G T‘, be ,r °f young women employed in
setting up reprint “tale ” at his office who call themselves
A as a father, would sooner place my
Thclc m ? tobacco-factory than in a printing office.
femnt« K.,i P fn nty 9 f i . ave nues for the employment of
know of b t the pnntln S office is the least legitimate I
, T.W.P.
read carefully and with consider-
able mteiest Miss A nnie Hill’s letter in The Bulletin of
I; 1 ;,!" 1 ’ Tf that young lady’s unsuccessful endeavour
, GGta . n admittance into the above society. Sir, without
piesuming to be m a position to settle the merits of this
very important case, yet, as a tradesman, I fully recognise
the gravity of the whole question which Miss Hill has
opened up-namely, the utility or otherwise of encoura-
“L“ employment of females in all those trades fn
vvhicn the work to be performed is not of an extremely
wnnlH h w? re physically considered -or. perhaps, it
j Gl ! dbe better to say in all avenues of employment. I
don t suppose that Miss Annie Hill (whose letter to you
he - ad of “ A Woman’s Grievance ”) will
ase in ‘ h!l Wlt l ha , vl P= materially strengthened her sex’s
case in this extract from her letter: “I dealt with the
shf«i 01 tJ 0f f W ? mandaboU1 ’ in pi ’mting offices generally. I
,^ lat f”>m my experience there was nothing
denioiahsing m men and women working together
in pnntmg - offices any more than in drapery and
othci stores, where the employes are of both 'sexes :
hpti ! iva l rh inted i ollt - tbat sul ' el .V male compositors could
behave themselves m the presence of women as well as
™ ale drape f u s asSlsta ut.” There can be little doubt
?f.„ ba . t ’ But there are some really vital points to be
taken into consideration in this matter—vital not only to
trades-unionism, but to humanity—and surely any little
tl ls.‘l Wheth !;f Tom might ask L'iz whether she
followed him, with perhaps a little too much ac-
centuatmn of the verb; or sweet William rather
tenderly expostulate on gentle Annie’s long wavy hair
doubtF mfo the “pi’’ surely any coy, trembling
doubts of this nature are somewhat premature and
unwarranted. It certainly appears to me that in those
trades and callings in which females are most employed
the wage is the lowest; and I believe I am correct in sav-
ing that e»en in the mild and gentle atmosphere of the
a wages of the male and female
shop-assistants together do not amount to that of the
male alone in the trades employing men only. If our dear
hvnnv w tu t - he f w ,?. rld wdl ll<! improved and made more
bapp -\ b.V their taking up the mallet and the shooting-
stick, the shovel and the hoe, then, at no matter what
cost to ourselves, my brothers, 1 believe it to be our duty
to assist them to that end. But if, looking around us w'e
see capitalists on every side only too eager to flog’ the
weak and to crush the strong; if, on enquiry and calm
judicious thought, we find (and I do not say that such is
the case) the wage in those callings in which women are
freely employed gradually, but surely, getting lower and
lower both for our brothers and sisters ; if, added to this
we find large bodies of men and women in these callings
being ground down to long hours and low wages, and
helpless even to organise, and to make and work under
rules for their own defence—if, after careful, calm, just
enqmry, we find all this to be the case, we must keep
light ahead, and—as lam inclined to think is the best
way-fight hard to place our weakest brothers on a van-
tage ground from which they will be better able to work
out their own and their sisters’ freedom,—Yours, &e.,
Hope.
[ J he Bulletin fails to see that its correspondents
luave dealt vvith the arguments advanced by Miss
Hill. Jf printing-offices be unhealthy, then are
they unhealthy for men as well as women, and
probably not less healthy than the clothing
tobacco or boot factory where women are chiefly
employed. If the printing-office be immoral, then
it is no place for the young boys who now enter it
anymore than for the young women who some day
will and if the men fail to work out their own
social purification, then is the regenerating in-
fluence of the weaker sex more urgently required.
The world will never be what it might until the
position of women is improved, whether we want
a community of goods or no, we certainly require
a community of interest of association. When
men and women stand on one intellectual plane
then we may hope to see less work for the divorce-
courts and the “ gimlet-societies; ” this can never
be attained by shutting our women out from male
society and industrial competition.—Ed. B.]
Judge Boucaut (fc!,A.), the best Premier
nontli Australia had, has a yearning to re-
enter political life. Like Higinbotham and
Billey, Boucaut has ruined a brilliant career by
smothering himself on the Bench. He is it is
stated, a friendly political adviser of the’Cock-
burn Government.
Bishop Cowie, of N.Z., says that “if it
took a million years to prepare a world for man to
live in, it might take another million years to
°Vf uiankind from the original germ or germs
of from which all living creatures have
sprung, the man who states this from a platform
is styled a “ blatant infidel.”
When Joaquin Miller, “the poet of the
oierras,” was a boy he was employed as cook for
two miners on the Sacramento River, California
I he mine “ petered out,” and the three started off
for the nearest settlement. One of the miners
went to a restaurant and asked if security would
be taken for three square feeds, as he had no
money. ‘Where’s your security?” asked the
propiietor. Cut in the road, there, ” answered
the miner, pointing to Joaquin. The poet was
duly pawned and the meals given, after which the
mmers left. Three weeks later they returned and
redeemed ” Joaquin, and took him to ’Frisco
where he soon made a, name for himself.


Building Sites, City of Perth, W.A. Plans
Intercoloni al Investment Co., Limited, 90 Bathurst-
ptrcct, Sydney.
[?]
846 Macquarie-street North, Sydney, March 26, 1890.
Mv Dear Mookabikda, —
There is a tearing of peroxided locks, and a gnashing of
five-guinea teeth in many a happy Sydney home just now.
The Maj or and Mayoress, in issuing cards for the civic
shavoo on 10th prox., have limited the invitations to two
thousand ! Of course those people who receive permits
will tell one another how wise Sydney’s municipal ruler is
not to invite a mob, my dear—and will enjoy the unusua
vexation of being actually able to waltz at a city
ball—but how about those Peris who are left (figura-
tively) on the scraper? It is said that preceding mayoral
entertainments have been invariably 7 overcrowded— but if
they were what did it matter ? The “ Mayor s ball is
not an exclusive social effervescence. It is a purely civic
f unction to w T hich Alderman Binks, butcher, and Aider-
man Jinks, grocer, are bidden freely. And “everybody
goes, or used to go. It is, or w 7 as, an annual phantasma-
goria of all sorts and conditions of women and men in % -
shaped corsages and swallow-tails, and to “ limit the
invitations ” robs the occasion of its character. It is
possible that we shall evermore be denied the pleasure of
seeing that very 7 massive lady dancing with her train
hitched on to her shoulders and her arms round her
partner's neck.
Of all foolish feminine tricks -foolish from a severely
“business” point of view—the habit girls have of osten-
tatiously displaying expensive gem-rings on their third or
engagement fingers is about the silliest and best calcu-
lated to put possible husbands right out of their calcula-
tions that I know of. Any man seeing a nice girl take off
tier gloves to reveal a big moonstone or diamond or ruby
scintillating on her third digit, immediately concludes
(and small blame to him, either) that she is half-way on
the matrimonial road, and, if he is a man with rococo
ideas on the squareness of “poaching in another
man’s waters,” as Handsome George says in “My
Jack ’’—well, he either murmurs a sentimental “ it might
har e been,” or which is far more likely 7 a final “ Really
nice little woman, but other fellow's first,” and there's the
end of it. That the girl isn’t fiancee ten times out of a
dozen though she wears the outward and visible sign on
her first, doesn’t occur to him, and as most engaged girls
are flirts, when he talks to her and receives distinct en-
couragement, even that doesn’t discount the signific-
ance of the circlet. A point-blank question only
can solve the mystery —but a man simply “in-
terested” may not care to reveal curiosity about
the relationships of a woman who apparently be-
longs (tentatively) to somebody else. I haven’t yet dis-
covered the reason why girls wear these incriminating
gew-gaws. They all have five fingers—each with its con-
nubial significance, and, if they must have a “ meaning,”
why don’t the spouseless young women of our anti-con-
nubial day and generation wear their jewellery on the
first finger? That signifies “I’m eligible for the altar.”
(Mind you, I am free to confess that wearing a ring on
your forefinger looks very much like pointing at a man
with your forefinger.) After which long and dusty dis-
course, all for the benefit of her unthinking sex, your
Sappho will now make her most sweeping how.
They are becoming quite excited down South over the
“ Ladies' Association for Importing Servants from Great
Britain ” (mind the capitals, please), and large crowds roll
up to the meetings with their “ hear-hears ” hung on hair-
triggers, and noisy 7 umbrellas and other symptoms of loud
sympathy, and householders tell one another that the
domestic millennium is at hand. But the Dean of Perth’s
letter in a recent IV, A. paper on the “ inexcusable laxity
under which female emigrants are brought to the colo-
nies” may show these enthusiasts that the female who
leaves her native land isn’t always the pick of the basket.
It has been alleged that the “ British Women’s Emigra-
tion Society” lias an obliging “lady” attach*) who per,
sonally recommends a girl whom she has met five minutes
before, and accepts as genuine references from the Rev.
Dash or Father Fitz Partick, whose present address the
girl cannot give, and in w'hose service she is alleged to
have spent three long years ! The result of all this is
that Australians engage servants w 7 ho may be and often are
thieves or drunkards, or anything too had to hold respect-
able references and confidently give them the run of
pantries and wardrobes because they come with a good
recommendation. But ask any woman who engages
British help if she finds it an unqualified success ? Only-
one in a hundred is a “ treasurethe rest smash the
china and bang the baby like their local prototypes, and
grow sour and disobliging as the years go on and the
Antipodean butcher, whom they emigrated to secure, has
failed to fall on his corduroys and beg her to become the
“ guidin’ hangel ”of the little shop in the side street. Few
competent British servants emigrate. In England a good
cook demands £25 a year-in Sydney, say £5O. But it is
shown that £l5 expended on high red hats and piush
mantles in London will go much further than a great deal
larger sum in Sydney, and as for the idea that there is
matrimony in emigration, it has been said that no woman
can attain connubiality more easily than the well-fed
retainers of a well-to-do English family. With all these
advantages apparent, good servants stay in Britain. Only
unskilled labour can be induced to sample “fresh fields
and pastures new 7.”
It was but a pensive snigger that your Sappho directed
at the funnyisms in “ Ours,” as they are represented at
Sydney Criterion. To know that you are gazing your
very last (for a season) on Mr. and Mrs. Brough and suite
is enough to freeze your ready-made smile, and reduce
your cacchinations to the melodramatic gurgle of despair.
Through my falling tears in Act 2 I saw that Mrs. Brough
wears an ideally simple trained gown of cream veiling,
with “ French ” bodice and lace at neck and sleeves ; that
Pattie Brown was charming in eau-de-nil silk be-barred
.and bc-howcd with dark green velvet, the barred sleeves
-being especially catchy ; that Miss Romcr wore that awe-
some black velvet “ Caste ’’ gown, and that Brough wore
a green “order”—in honor of St. Patrick’s Day, probably.
By the bye is it the advent of the clinging Brown-Potter
that has stirred our Thespians up so in their sighings and
burnings? That silent passionate hug in the doorway
when the braw Scot is about to leave, and the Prince is
examining the picture, is about the most realistic cuddle
Sydney has been favored with for some time.
I have been to the “ Octoroon,” at Sydney Royal,
Nothing exists without a reason, but the “ Octoroon,” as she
is played at Sydney Royal, should surely be annihilated sud-
denly. On the first night stalls and gallery were thronged
but the d.c. was sketchy. Emma Temple in pink and tan
gloves came with Brenda Gibson in pearl grey and black
bands ; and an odd Miss Mephistopheles sort of garment
was a black silk with tight red gauze sleeves. Speaking
of theatres. When you meet a man at half-time strolling
idly back to his friend with her fan in his hand you con-
clude—if you don’t know any better, that is—that he for-
got he had it when he went out. But the fact is, that the
modern fan-handle is manufactured hollow, and the con-
siderate cavalier gets it filled in the interval with what-
ever syrup the owner most affects, and bears it back in
triumph. Then when the lights are low she raises the
handle naturally and innocently to her lips, and the rest
is easy,
U ith the advent of the winter season Sydney society is
now returned in a body to town from the mountains, and
the girl whom you remember with a skin like “ pearls un*
der snow” does the block with a burnt-coffee cheek and
half-crown freckles, while the maiden remarkable for her
ivory nose comes out disconsolate with a danger signal
proboscis, and two layers of gossamer and repentance. It
is at times like these —when, as a girl pulls on her suede
evening gloves, she finds them exactly the shade of her
shoulders; when, too, she sees herself rise like a well-
burnt meerschaum out of the folds of cruelly-contrasting
white crepe, that the strongest minded of our sex make
one desperate clutch at the pearl-cream bottle and simply
soak themselves in it from head to —well, of course, that
depends on the Y-ness of their bodices. And thus does
the summer sojourner’s dire retribution come to her. It
is no doubt very novel to ride over arid plains with the
thermometer swooning in the top attic; or go sculling
veilless and gloveless with Joe, lest Joe should size you up
as a “ city dollbut when you return to face the season
with raw-beef arms, stringy-bark cheeks, and hands the
colour of saddle-flaps, you will see that those hours of
“ glorious liberty ” (as you said at the time) were very
dear at the price. Especially when you find that “ that
horrid Mabel” has come back as odiously pink and white
as ever.
On dit that a painfully recent and much-gilded Vic-
torian bridegroom who has chosen a Sydney bride is
remarkable for his weird and complex squint. So that
when vis-a-vis '.o his adored in a railway-car, or else when
lie is fondly ogling her for all he’s worth, that lady will
be gradually working herself into a white heat of jealousy
under the impression that he is actually daring to mash
the minx on the opposite corner under her very nose !
What awful rows there will be till she gets accustomed
to it!
From the S.M.H.; —
I ) EWARD, Ss.—LOST, in Womerah-avenue, a Gold
LL plate, with 3 teeth attached, wrapped in a slate-
coloured glove.
What a place to carry your masticators 1 Suppose a
“ mash” should come along and implore :
Oh, give to me my star, my queen,
My angel and my love,
The kid that on thy hand has been—
Give me your little glove !
And just picture the awful collapse of Love’s young dream
if the maiden makes answer ;
Oh, George ! adored all men above,
Pause just one little minute
Ere thus you seize upon my glove,
My Sunday teeth are in it !
By the satisfied smirk on the managerial visage at the
sixth orchestral concert, a man in the next street would
have understood that a large, lucrative aggregate was
poised in the Austrian chair of fashion within Sydney
Exhibition Building on 22nd hist. There were no five
hundred civic deadheads in various stages of coma rous-
ing themselves violently to an affectation of rapt interest
when the Mayor looked round and collapsing suddenly
when the civic regard sheered off. On the contrary,
those who went came for the music-one saw it by
the listening tilt of their auriculars—the tense
open • mouthed appreciation that isn’t pretty, but
is very real. The programme was as soothing
as usual, but then if Hazon conducted “ Killaloe ” one
would find oneself going with greased palms to help the
encores along. A repetition of the dance movement of
Lizst’s “Rhapsodic Hongroise” was insisted upon, and the
“ Sylvia ” pizzicato had also to be re-rendered, but the
final item “ Siege of Corinth ” was heard to an impromptu
accompaniment of hoot-heats. Next Saturday (29th)
Kowalski will play his “ C mcert Fantasia” to an orches-
tral accompaniment. By-the-bye Signor Hazon’s orches-
tra, assisted by very special singers, will star at Her
Majesty’s theatre in a “ classical ” concert to signalise the
bun festival on Ith prox.
A pretty story is going the rounds of Brisbane society
as to the cause of the annulment of an engagement of
marriage between a well-known Sydney lady and one of
the handsomest and wealthiest of the legal fraternity of
Brisbane.
When in Paris, Florence Menk-Meyer, the Australian
pianiste, owned a young and beautiful bear, which was
quite a “ household god.” Leaving for her Australian
tour “ Mosti ” was left in the care of her housekeeper ;
growing restless, however, one day he disappeared, and
nothing was heard of him until the housekeeper visited
the Jardin des Plantes, when her attention was attracted
to a bear which endeavoured to attract her attention, and
was strenuously attempting to escape. It was the long-
lost “ Mosti,” now restored with his silver-collar to his
former home. Miss Menk-Meyer only learned of his
escape at the same time as his recovery.
Yours affectionately,
SAPPHO SMITH.
Stanley’s friend, Tippoo Tib, the richest
man in Africa, its Brigham Young, sent £35,000
worth of ivory to Zanzibar lately. Ihe milk is in
the cocoa-nut.
The grievance of George Gordon M‘Crae,
the Melbourne poet, isin beingcontinuallymistaken
for a well-known masterly corn-cutter. “ Beg
pardon,” says the corn-cutter’s friend, and “ Beg
pardon,” says the poet’s friend. We’re ready to
swear that the corn-cutter makes more money out
of toes than the poet makes out of feet.
Bob Mostyn, the well-known Sydney
sporting scribe, is being sued by a Miss Carroll, a
Sydney Hebe, for breach of promise. Bob having
lately met with many misfortunes, has become
bankrupt, and it has been held by the Chief
Justice that the breach of promise trial cannot
effectually proceed unless at th n stance of the
official assignee. Ere this r published the
damages, if any, may be formally assessed, but
the matter, as it stands, is comical enough fpr the
consideration of Mr. \V. S. Gilbert. “Liabilities,
one alleged broach of promise of marriage.”
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOK COMING WEEK.
Thbatrk ; ;ra.Bh«h,».».
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Theatre Royal “A Man’s■ Sha ow.
Opera House ‘‘T aTo^aW'
Princess ~ i> o i,y, erv under Anns.”
Alexandra itooDeiy in w
Victoria Hall sost ?,'\^, u fv«uv
St. George's Hall OogiU Bros. Gompanj.
The general depression in Sydney, the
honours of which are divided between 1 arkes and
the influenza, has been augmented during tri
week by the resuscitation of that-debilitated old
wheeze, “ The Octoroon,” at the Royal, It was
acted not much below the average to which it nas
attained since the days wiien Jefferson made
Salem Soudder worth breaking away to see, even
at the beginning of a vice regal speech or
middle of a bishop’s sermon. Any time during
the last 30 years every little boy in Australia has
been able to tell his grandmother the plot ot tne
“ Octoroon,” with an emphasis on the value ot
photography as a murder-detector; but i
always been a disappointing drama inasmuch as
it is Yankee from stem to stern-post, yet is witn-
out a book-agent among the charactei’s, ox so
much as a passing reference to the lucrative pio
fession of that ingenious canoodler. in deterence,
however, to the increased spread of photographic
knowledge and the horde of dry-plate fiends w io
turn earth into Sheol with “ snap-shot cameras,
the last Mr. Scudder refers to a newly-invented
“self-developer” which raises a tall blister ot
hope in the breast of the amateur helps to
mystify the sceptic, and fills the gallery wi
more awe than does the utter absence of a
Americanisms from his pronunciation, have an
except always the well-known ease with which
every American gentleman can at any hour ot the
day or night produce an armoury of knives and
revolvers from various parts of his person, expec-
torate across a room and through a keyhole with
precision, and carry on a conversation with the
limited vocabulary of “ sirree, ’ “by thunder,
and “tarnation,” Jacob MClosky, by being a
pronounced scoundrel, gets nearer to the author s
conception without breaking a blood-vessel than
any of the more refined characters in the piece,
who are generally of a wooden order of architec-
ture and as entirely devoid of interest as ot
vitality. Those who were exceptions to this
whole-souled appreciation sailed across the stage
with the graceful stride of a derelict camel, 01
whooped up the various catastrophes with an
amount of energy worth money at a general
election. “The Octoroon” has been for many
years in an advanced stage of decomposition, and
will be about ready for the final obsequies when
the people at the Royal have done with it; but,
anyhow, it has afforded them an opportunity ot
airing a lot of venerable canvas that would tail to
pieces were it not embalmed in the early associa-
tions of the Sydney stage.
IK id W: *
George 0. Miln’s concluding week at
Sydney Standard was filled by “Othello. ” George s
lago had a bacon fed look not suggestive of con-
stitutional villainy, although he attempted to hint
at “deeds of darkness” by an environment of
black velvet. His occasional loudness apparently
made what should have been almost voiceless in-
sinuation, positive declaration. Ireland also gave
way to rant, his big scene with Lniilia- well
played by Kate Douglas —was simply a scolding-
match, in which he endeavoured by force ot lung
to silence the termagant. Moderation of tone and
dignity of attitude on his part would have_ given
the scene an effectiveness it lacked. Louise
Jordan at intervals was bearable, but she occa-
sionally struck an Americanism with a guttural
emphasis that awakened an answering chord
in the big drum. Miln has had much
to fight against—the wet weather, for ui-
stance, also the proximity of the firemen,
who seeing their show of glory and promotion
drowned by a deluge of rain, at maddeningly fre-
quent intervals strain the mildewed atmosphere
through the distorted bowels of a wheezy con-
certina to revive their drooping spirits; moreover,
the propinquity of the fatuous Foresters who
sing “God Save the Queen” at moments when
“silence” is universally requested, is not con-
ducive to the maintenance of verisimilitude.
What Her G 4 rash us has ever done for Tom Smith,
who is laid up with rheumatism, and whose last
monthly subscription was unpaid, is not evidently
anv more than she has for Bill Jones, whose wife
recently died leaving him alone with ten children
and no work, and who has come round to ask the
committee to vote the funeral expenses, even
although he is bad on the books. The season con-
cludes with a benefit to the mummers on Monday,
and then the company, it is said, will fade away
into New Zealand. We wish them luck.
*- * * *
At Her Majesty’s, the other evening, the
first scene in “My Jack” was so badly set
that the tops of the wings and the flies were quite
uncovered. Thin is luost disillusionising; foi-
tunately it does not often occur at this house.
“My Jack” still draws big audiences, and the date
of its withdrawal is still unfixed, though “ Nowa-
days ” is in active rehearsal. By the way, we
learn from a home paper that William Rignold s
favourite play and part are “As You Like It
and Jaques; also, that he never dines after three,
and is partial to lemons between acts. It is pre-
dicted by those who ought to know, don t you
know, that William R. will simply paralyse Syd-
ney folks.
* * * *-
At the Palace Museum “ Texas Jack ” is
now on show, enforced by Young Gun, the son
of Old Gun and Brown Bess, an Australian
aboriginal with yellow hair, red eyes and an
opaline proboscis.’ By the way, the re-appearance
of “ Magician ” Solomon, after a long period of
retirement, is announced. The purse-trick,
J ohnnie ?
** * *
The wet weather has, in the language of
Surry Hills, given the Aquarium “Bondi,” and
Wyburd looks as miserable as a seal in a circus-
ring. The various entertainments are, however,
as good as ever, and tjm concert programme, to
quote the Waverley poet; defies competition.
*# * *
Hazon’s concerts continue to attract large
crowds to Sydney Exhibition Building. On the
conclusion of the present season, another will be
probably arranged for.
It is just probable that a big change will
take place shortly at the Cyclorania.
# * # #
Two dramas in Melbourne are shockingly sad O,
The one is “La Tosca,” the next, “A Mans
Shadow; ” ,
Their plots, without question, are clever ami
thrilling, . ~ ....
Involving a vast lot of weeping and killing;
They offer no chance for a light-hearted sniggei
They murder the sleep of the toughest grave-
digger.
And the popular verdict, in language unlawful,
On each of these dramas is—“ Too blanky awful.
* *• * *
“ A Man’s Shadow,” another nightmare
invented by a foreign genius alleged to be a
“lively Gaul,” cast its gloom over Melbourne
Royal last Saturday. Buchanan’s adaptation is
generally a black and bitter reminder of ‘ the
Lyons Mail,” the closing scene being a complete
reproduction of that which brings the curtain
down upon the better known and far more
picturesque play. Ladies and gentlemen unac-
quainted with the prototype will probably enjoy
“A Man’s Shadow,” however, especially if theyre-
storetheir exhausted faculties by supping off corned
beef and sleeping on their spinal cords. The story
of the Firm’s latest shudder deals with the mis-
fortunes of a virtuous, red-faced man, whose
“double” shoots a banker, under circumstances
which persuade the virtuous party’s wife and child
and parlourmaid that he was the real Simon
Impure. Matters are further complicated and
made distressing for the red-faced martyr by the
conduct of his advocate’s wife —a bad, bouncing
female who wants to go for him with her warm,
passionate mouth open every time her innocent
partner isn’t present. The scandalous conduct of
this amorous sinner results in the sudden death of
her Potiphar while that advocate is defending his
friend in court, and the gory narrative goes trip-
ping along until the 66 Shadow” gets a charge of
slugs through his lungs and confesses his crime.
Mrs. Potiphar also assists to clear up the mystery,
and as the audience have known all about it from
the start, they mentally reckon up the heaps of
slain and take their blood-stained hook at 11 p.m.
X *
Mr. Charles Warner has a hard struggle
with his dual character of Laroque and Shadow,
and gets through the heavy work well. ihe
stage is seldom quit of Warner in one or other of
his capacities. No sooner has gone off as the
good man than he pops back again in a different
pair of breeches to play the villain. Sometimes he
is less like Warner than usual, and sometimes he
is rather more so. Occasionally it would be a
relief to discover that he wasn t there, but take his
performance for all in all, we shall often look
upon its like again. Mr. Herbert Flemming is
really good, but not truly great, as the advocate
who dies of suppressed emotion on the floor of
the court, and Miss Jenny Watt-Tanner acts with
more than her old effect in the part of the advo-
cate's free-thinking wife. Jenny received a hearty
welcome on her return from Europe, and the fact
that her handsome dresses come direct from
the studio of tiie renowned Spofkins (of
London) deserves mention. You can see the
master-mind of Spofkins in each fold of Miss
Watt-Tanner's skirt. They ought to bill the
name of Spofkins and raise prices all round.
Miss Maud Williamson, whose appearance m a
brightened head of hair is distinctly ravishing,
undertakes an important part of the long nights
sorrow. She is the wife of the right Warner,
fated to behold the wrong Warner pot the banker,
and she rises to several occasions with much force.
Her child is the greatest success of this lugubrious
show a phenomenon younger and more precocious
than either of the Fauntleroy girls. She is de-
sen bed ms .Miss Violet Asliton, but lici emnciM-tcd
logs proclaim the morsel of humanity to be Baby
Nicholls. The parlour-maid is satisfactory, a
couple of comic soldiers play the fool distressingly,
and the staging is first-class. The one great fault
of “ A Man's Shadow” is its over-elaboration of
plot. The agony is wire-drawn.
When the Triumvirate dissolved partner-
ship an equitable distribution of their scenic
artists was settled in the good old-fashioned way.
Williamson and Mnsgrove tossed up for choice of
Brunton and Gordon, while Garner watched pro-
ceedings on behalf of the amended firm and saw
that the “flutter” was strictly orthodox. Another
version of the story has it that only one of the con-
tending parties tossed up, “heads ’’being Brunton
and “tails ” being Gordon. The game of specula-
tion resulted in the latter painter being told off
for Mr. George Mnsgrove and Sydney, leaving
friend Brunton to retain his old position at head-
quarters.
-*- * Hf *
People who think, or think they think,
that the English drama has been gradually declin-
ing since the days of immortal William, and that
Pinero's comedies arc inferior to the works of
H. J. Byron and Tom Robertson, will find it hard
to explain why the London critics should agree to
slate (considering how seldom they do. slate), a
revival of “ Cyril’s Success,” declaring the plot to
bo loosely constructed, transparently thin, and
altogether ridiculous. “Cyril’s Success’’was re-
garded as a masterpiece when Byron wrote it some
twenty-five years ago. To day it seems a poor
weak thing compared with “Sweet Lavender,
while another quarter of a century will possibly
produce a class of play so different to both ot
those mentioned that the generation now in short
frocks and knickerbockers will discover no interest
in either. So with dramas. None of them have
maintained a good hold upon the popular taste lor
more than ten years, save only the_ best ot
Boucioault’s. And, as the germ of life in clever
old Dion B.’s works has generally been stolen
from the French, he cannot be said to negative
the proposition that some very recent specimens ot
English playwriting, pure and simple, are not less
clever and certainly more thoughtful than any
written since the powdered-wig era.
$£ 4£ 4$
Robert Beattie, a young but affluent stone-
mason, to whom The Bulletin raises its hat reve-
rently, stood at the bar of the Melb. City Court,
last Thursday, charged with the unavoidable mis-
demeanour of loving Nellie Stewart. _ The worst
of Robert is that he doesn’t content himself witn
standing afar off and saying “Yum Yum ” in a
discreet undertone as the prima donna s common,
or garden kind of admirers do, but he has a way
of walking on her shadow, inhaling her smile, and
generally pervading Nellie’s life. An awfully
omnipresent idolater the stonemason appears
to be. If the divinity emerges from a stage
door, he is there, if she does the block he is
there also, and if she takes a threepenny
bit and drives into the uttermost parts oy
train or tram, even there Nellie finds Robert
located in the immediate vicinity, and gazing ac
her with the pertinacity of a graven image. Alter
enduring several months of this silent adoration,
Nellie explained her embarrassment to papa, wno
proceeded against Robert as aforesaid. But ai


Horsford’s Acid Phosphate
RELIEVES THE FEELING OF LASSITUDE
-Bo common in mid-summer, and imparts vitality.
TTao Batho’s Baking Powder.
Keliable Watch Repairs. I'aiims & Co, Kimj-st. Arcade
A GHOST
is not a photograph, nor a photo, a ghost—but a good photo, is a
true reflection of the original. For high-art photos, go to the
London Palace of Art, 10 Park-street, Sydney. Country photographers’ work from developement
to completion executed at lowest prices. Bromides a speciality, Staff of artists kept for working up.
Nellie, feeling that there was a world of excuse
for the poor fellow, declined to prosecute in per-
son, Robert was dismissed with a warning. The
young man did perhaps allow his passion for a
thing of beauty to carry him too far, but against
the cold-blooded assumption that he must be
suffering from insanity this journal rises to pro-
test. No, by Heaven! he is not mad. Who of
The Bulletin staff will be the first to fling such a
Rone at the mason ?
Toole’s great weakness is to prattle about
■* < my friend the Prince of Wales,” and let every-
body know that he is in the habit of digging the
masculine upper ten thousand in their noble ribs.
He loves a lord with all the devotion of a Tom
Moore, does little J. O’Toole. There is nothing
else against his character, and he can put away
perriwinkles like a staunch Republican. Now, a
thoroughbred snob would rather die than “ scoff ”
a plate of winkles.
** * *
There is a current impression that William-
son and Garner have sprung a mine, in regard to a
claim to the copyright of “ Paul Jones,” just when
Nellie Stewart has the production ready, at im-
mense cost. But Garner brought forward the
claim as soon as Nellie Stewart announced the
opera. Her claim is through Mrs. Water low.
Miss Marian Burton, who brought the opera with
her.
“ La Tosca” is an unavoidable success at
the Princess’s, where the beauteous Mrs. Brown-
Potter does her best to act up to the responsibili-
ties of a part which fits her like a sack. At the
least she and Bellew deserve some credit for
having brought over a play that everybody will
go to see, although the honours of the present per-
formance seem to remain with the author and Mr.
Garner, who has mounted the “ stars ” in a style
expressive of a heroic determination to make the
best of ’em. The story goes that Mrs. Potter is
not sufficiently sensible of the debt she owes to
the Press—the Press that paragraphed her into
the position of being able to trade upon the name
she acquired when Potter led her to the altar.
There are no particular points about Potter, as far
as we know, nor any about his wife, yet she sweeps
around the globe in gorgeous raiment, on the
. strength of the old man’s cognomen. Which re-
minds us that it is about time they brought for-
ward Potter, the real original P., and put him
into “Hamlet.” He would hum for a short
; season.
* * #
Miss Nellie Stewart’s season at Melbourne
‘ Opera House did not start on Saturday, but will
doso(D.v.) this Thursday night. The company
. reads like one of the strongest ever associated with
> comic opera in these parts, and if “ Paul Jones ’ is
any good a high time must necessarily ensue.
: Saturday night was devoted to a last revival of
; “ Beggar Student,” with Miss Marion Llewellyn
iin the place of the tuneful Lilian Tree. This nn-
Ihappy substitution is a young lady who has lifted
'her voice at benefit matinees for the past year or
ttwo. There seems to be no reason why she
shouldn’t retire from the profession without delay,
because the gallery boys are terrible when they are
aroused. Miss Llewellyn will certainly arouse
them if she persists in trying.
* » Df
“Robbery Under Arms” goes on fripm
week to week, at the Alexandra. The managerial
idea is that this breezy romance of the bush will
run for another month, or thereabouts, to business
which promises a healthy future for Australian
drama in its purest form. Meanwhile, Miss Rose
Dampier is taking the part of sister Lily, who has
unfortunately swallowed some of the Melbourne
germs, and been forced to fly to the mountains for
fresher air. The hallts do well, and Miss May
Yohe, one of the cleverest of the Boston Ideals,
was to take a benefit at the Vic. on Wednesday.
* # * -»
Letty Lind contributes to a recent number
-of Woman an interesting article on stage dancing,
in the course of which she tells an agreeable story
■of a youthful lover to whom, remarking his boyish
infatuation as he gazed at her admiringly from a
box, she indiscreetly kissed her hand. “He was
a pretty boy,” writes Miss Lind, “with black,
curly hair, and as I retired to the wings, after
kissing my hands to the audience, I gave him a
salute all to himself. Two days afterwards I re-
ceived a letter from him, asking if he might go
for a walk with me, if so that I should meet him at
the corner of a square near my own home next
morning. I went,, and found him so overcome
with bashfulness on seeing me that I had to pat
him on the back to comfort him ; and, giving him
a little friendly advice as to his future conduct, I
sent him home to his parents in Belgravia.” This
is absolutely delicious. We can see Letty virtu-
ously patting her pretty curly boy on the back.
-* sic- *
Grattan Riggs, and the company organised
by the M‘Mahons, have been doing splendid busi-
ness at the Adelaide Royal. That four-act
mixture of wickedness, poverty, crime, and
virtue, “ The Shadows of a Great City,” has been
the means of packing the popular parts of the
house, and might hold on for a century only the
season is to be a short one, and that other
Hibernian calamity, “ The Irish Detective,” must
have a chance.
* *■ * *
Certain participators in a “ financial and
artistic failure,” have complained to us that they
were induced to leave Melbourne by the statement
that a certain man of financial standing would
guarantee salaries. Arrived at their destination
the signature of the alleged guarantor was never
obtained, and after playing 13 nights and at two
matinees the show was brought to an abrupt con-
clusion on the fourteenth night by the company’s
refusal (they had only received six nights’ salary)
to proceed. The audience was then dismissed
with a statement that the star (?) had taken sud-
denly ill. Here we may say that complaints have
also come in from many who allege that their
money was not returned to them. So far as is
known the money taken at tlie doors seems to have
been handed over to tlie individual behind the
scenes every evening for the purpose of defraying
rent and paying the orchestra and working-hands.
There being, apparently, no balance the unfor-
tunate performers are left out in the cold.
Too much of this “oronk” show —pay the
rent and manager and stick the poor actor
in for the losses—fake has been worked in
Australia, particularly in N.S. Wales, of late. All
that capable actors can do is to avoid in future
those who at any period have run “ shady shows.”
To this end we should recommend the formation
of an Actors’ Union and the publication of a
secret “ black-list ” wherein the indebtedness of
the various entrepreneurs is set forth.
** * *
Now Toole—now Je-ohnny. Irving, at on
of the feeds, said : “My friend Toole is not an
actor, he is an Institution.” But in Australia he
will only be an actor. Therefore Garner is savage
T® % >r*
II I
/j/ ? <£ Sc*/ /s?y/S/6/<? ,
A J>/) SS , rc/a/s-e //<£,?,•/-.■
/-<£> s/i?//fy& &/*cia/7S . )
I C-} <3) J
f M *'- PotTIK )
/\' *- &£> y Q(y /VJ A / o .
with all this Savage Club business, attempting to
b r »orn Toole for Australia. He failed in America
15 years ago, when his age was only 45, and now
he is 00. Melbourne, as a rule, likes a strong
flavor, the Warneresque, in its acting. Now
Toole is a very quiet actor. He ought certainly
to woo Australia with the same modesty as G. Y.
Brooke, Celeste, Jefferson, and Ohas. Mathews.
He is a tine-flavoured comedian, when you know
him, but you have to know him first. Therefore,
tlie more care should be taken not to bully him
upon ns.
** * *
Madame Modjeska declares that no woman
can be graceful in a corset. As a substitute she
wears a tightly-fitted bodice of buckskin, which
comes up to the armpits and well down over the
iiipa. and is a support without being a restriction.
Mary Anderson is braced up by a roll of stout
linen four inches in width resembling a surgeon’s
bandage which supports the breast and covers the
torso. Mrs. Brown-Potter rolls a broad bandage
round the torso of heavy red wool, and declares
that neither she nor her mother ever wore a corset.
Sara Bernhardt is circled by a tight flannel-waist.
The adorable Langtry, however, is always hugged
by a shapely corset. “There is nothing,” she
says, “so easy as a perfectly-made French corset.
Talk about tlie ‘ line of beauty,’ there it is,” and
she turned her body just enough to show the curve
of her superb hip. Lily, we may remark, is the
only one of the quoted authorities remarkable for
frontal development.
Cardinal Moran apparently interprets
“ the poor ye always have with ye” as a predic-
tion tliat there will always be poverty in the
world. Poverty is no more inevitable than small-
pox.
The most noble the Marquis of Ailesbury
proclaimed, at an hotel dinner-table, his firm belief
that he isn’t a- lord by descent if his pedigree
could only be proved. “To show he was consistent
in his belief,” says a London paper, “he presently
married the cast off mistress of one of his pals, a
lady with a ready-made family by different
fathers. ” Long live the House of Peers !
Robert, though your heart be sad,
And your spirit crushed to jelly,
By the gods ! you are not mad
Just because you worship Nelly;
All who’ve seen that prima donna
Feel the same as you, ’pon honour.
When a masher, narrow-browed,
Dodges round a ballet Tottie,
Does a lawyer shriek aloud
That the tailor’s block is “ dotty”?
Ear less mad than Tottie’s lover
Is poor Bob, who looks above her.
Robert, if in ’bus or tram
We saw Nellie S. a rider,
We should think it damson jam
Peacefully to sit beside her.
In a train that prima donna
Once we faced— : I gloated on her.
For no other lady fair
Scarcely would we give a “ thanky
Where’s the scoffer wlio would dare
To assert the bard is cranky ?
When on Nell we are not spoony
Then arrest us as a “ looney.”
Robert, you’re a man of taste,
’Tis absurd to call you crazy;
What an ankle ! What a waist !
Ain’t she, now, a perfect daisy ?
When the limelight falls her face on
Every fellow there’s a mason.
THE BROWN-POTTER.
Bostonese on whom princes have fawned,
Rendered slaves by “ your exqusite grace,”
O have you that loveliness pawned ?
What’s become of your form and your face ?
Neither seem to have come to this place.
Pretty are you, but where is the bust gone ?
O where is your roundness of limb ?
Truly Janet Aohurch, who has just gone,
Than yours, has a figure more trim.
Eager were we to see one so famous;
Really you aren’t so bright as your name is !
At Poverty Point.
There is nothing whatever “ fast ” about Marian Burton,
the beautiful oratorio contralto, who is going into tights
for “ Paul Jones,” at Melbourne Opera House. She goes
about the streets in a plain pink print-looking gown,
without any mantle, and a little common chip straw hat
without any feather. Nevertheless the fascinating Marian
will have to solve the vexed question as to whether she
belongs to the Stilty Brigade, the Adjutant Bird, Heron,
or Flamingo sort, that do captivate the Lord Biltons. A
New York paper had the cheek to send a reporter round
to all the actresses, asking “ How do you feel in
trousers?” Nor can sweet Marian hide herself behind
them. Whether they are of the piano kind, or not, must
all come out. Oh Sawdust, Bran ! We forgot that.
A London paper describes Violet Ellicott as being
divinely fair and divinely tall. Violet must have grown
since she left Australia. When she played (and very in-
differently) in “ Barnes of New York ” she stood rather
under than over sft 6in.
Grattan Riggs’ son, Antonio, familiarly known as
“Tony,” lately appeared at Bangor, State of Maine, as
Ralph Rackstraw in “ Pinafore.” He has a sweet tenor
and all the local rags rave about his acting. It is said
that G.R.’s rear pockets are laden with eulogistic news-
paper clippings sent by “Tony,” which are getting worn
out by the proud father’s incessant perusal.
Jenny Watt-Tanner, who couldn’t get a fair show in
London, has joined Warner, at Melbourne Royal.
Toole’s colonial repertory includes “The Don,” “The
Butler,” “ Paul Fit,” “ The Upper Crust,” “The Serious
Family,” “ Artful Cards,” “ Dearer than Life,” “ Uncle
Dick’s Darling,” “ Dot,” “ Ici on Parle Franoais,” “The
Spitalflelds Weaver,” “Off the' Line,” and other
favou rites.
Charlotte Lucie, a young actress, who has studied.her
profession with the Kendals, has arrived in Melbourne,
under engagement to B. and B.
William Carey, son of the well-known actor, W. G.
Carey, died on 15th inst. He was a bright and promising
young man, and the blow has fallen heavily on his father,
whose constant companion he was. W.G. was compelled
by engagement to play on St. Patrick’s night in “ Robert
Emmet ” for the Hibernian Societ3’.
The Raynors were running a snug country hotel when
the elder brother, Harry, died. Charles carries on the
biz.
Mrs. and Mr. Kendal have made a lot of money in
America, where they have as large a sassiety following as
Irving and Ellen Terry.
Stanley’s lecturing terms are 300 guineas a night.
Before the last trip they were 15.
The first night Grade Hopkins acted Lord Fauntleroy
a critic wrote that Mrs. Berkley, on the stage, saw the
child stick and wouldn’t help her. Mrs. Berkley burst
into tears when this was shown to her, declaring that she
gave the fairest of play to Olive’s rival.
Minnie Palmer’s pantomime engagement at Her
Majesty’s Theatre terminated with awful suddenness
owing to the management’s indisposition to ante-up her
preposterous salary. At latest dates Minnie was shaking
her golden looks and giving instructions to the lawyers
Mrs. Royce is again seriously ill with typhoid fever in
Melbourne.
Owen Harris has left the “ Pointsman ” crowd to assist
B. and B. in “ Money.”
Dan Barry has been delighting Daylesford with the
“ Parson’s Oath ” and “ Arrah-na-Pogue.”
W. and G.’s Comic Opera Company, engineered by
William Hughes, is doing good N.Z. business. So is
Santley, piloted by R. S. Smythe, jr.
Since London Her Majesty’s closed, Minnie Palmer has
been playing a matinee season at the Gaiety. Where
would she be without “ Yours merrily, Rogers ? ”
Dion Boucicault has written a play for Sol. S. Russell,
to be produced at Daly’s Theatre, New York.
George Grossmith has done better business in Scotland
than any-single-handed performer* since Dickens and
Rubinstein.
“ Jimmy ” Moore, now running the “Jo’’Company in
Brisbane, will, on their return, resume his business
relation with W. and G.
Dion Robertson, eldest son of 1 ‘ Tom ” Robertson, author
of “Ours,” “Caste,” (fee., and a godson of Dion Bouci-
cault the elder, is now resident in Melbourne. He is
quite a young man, but lias already been on several
theatrical and society journals in London.
Mrs. F. G. Pearson has obtained a decree nisi in the
N. Z. Divorce Court from Mr. P. G., known on the stage
as Frank Gerald.
At the “Green Boom Club” farewell to Toole were
assembled, among others, Bancroft (chairman), Bram
Stoker, E. Righton, Howe, Clement Scott, Pinero, Hare,
Toole, Irving, Chas Dickens, E. S. Willard, Beerbohm
Tree, B. L. Farjeon, Bron. Howard, G. Alexander, James
Fernandez, Henry Neville, Arthur Cecil, John Forbes
Robertson, Harry Nicholls, Fred. Leslie, John L. Shine,
George Conquest, John Billington, Leonard Boyne, Fred.
Kerr, Arthur Dacre, Robert Patcman, Ben Davies, Cour-
tioe Pounds, Fred. Terry, Lewis Waller, Henry Hamilton,
and many other wearers of the sock and buskin.
Florence St. John, who has made a big American hit,
makes a point of asking her professional interviewers how
they like America before they get a show to question her.
“ The Vagabond ” takes to himself the credit of having
made Coppm and Barry Sullivan “ friends again.” The
“friendship,” if any ever existed, which is doubtful,
between these two was broken when George ran Charles
Kean at the Haymarket against Sullivan at the Royal,
Melbourne, in 1863.
Old Barnum is a bigger humbug than ever. At a late
banquet he, after telling the old, old story of the storm-
tossed child who was not afraid because father was at the
helm, insinuated that he had a third partner in the show,
saying: “ That is the thing to remember in the hour of
trouble and doubt—the Father is at the helm.” The idea
of Providence overlooking the cash-takings, watching the
check-takers, and giving an eye to the monkeys and
freaks of nature is fine. The humbug should be canonised.
“ St. Barnum ” would look well on the posters.
Current gossip neglects to indicate the locality of the
incident, but merely states that a self-created dramatic
critic met two popular actresses the day after a per-
formance in which his wife had filled an unimportant
part. good turn deserves another. They get their
regular ration of toffee from him in the Harbinger, and
the common garden variety of gratitude compelled the
remarkOh! Mr. Slobber, how sweetly your dear wife
played last night. What a beautiful conception of the
part! ” And then the bell rang for morning service, and
as he walked away a larger proportion than usual of his
cast-iron cheek came into view by reason of an extra
rakish tilt of the stove-pipe. But this couldn't have
happened in Australia, because it is gravely stated in an
English print that there is no such animal as a dramatic
critic in the island continent.
Once when Clarence Holt was playing “William Tell,”
at the old 'Melbourne. Royal, Gessler’s Lieutenant (played
by an actor who assumed the name of Forrest) should
have remarked : “ I see you love a jest, but jest not now.”
Imagine Holt (who owned an abundant vocabulary) and
his indignation when the actor, with a touch of the
Yankee in his tone, said : “ I see you love a jest, but not
jest now !” N.B.—This is a chestnut, but not chest now.
Outside Her Majesty’s (Sydney) the other day stood a
crowd of “ My Jack’s” people, when a regiment of a cer-
tain tailor’s “ sandwich-men ” came along. “ X pity those
poor beggars,” said one, “ dressed up like that, trudging
the streets all day for a couple of bob.” “Two bob —and
their board,” said a cleanly-shaven actor with an eye-glass,
This seems too good to have been born at Her Majesty’s.
®. C. Miln’s company will benefit on Monday at Sydney
Standard, when they will be assisted by many members of
the profession.
A Sydney Sunday paper slobbers over a lady-singer with
undeserved praise for her rendition of a song “ previously
murdered by a well-known comique.” As no terms of
eulogy were too fulsome to bestow on the aforesaid
comique while he was in Sydney, “ criticism ” as a mere
medium of advertisement is once more in evidence.
Harry Rickards, now playing at Newcastle, lost three
nights at Brisbane Gaiety through the floods. On the
fourth night a performance was announced “Gas or no
gas,” and the .first halt the show was lit up solely by lime-
light.
“What, what!” said the testy old habitue, between
the acts of a frigid London matinee play, “no ices?”
“ Couldn’t get ’em, sir,” whispered the attendant. “ Not
in such a frost?” he retorted incredulously, in a rudely
loud voice.
Patti annoints her face ere retiring with cold cream,
which is nibbed off on arising with soft flannel.
Woodfleld, tenor of Nellie Stewart’s Opera Company,
who has made his little pile in a land-spec., combines
farming with musical cultivation. So does Vernon.
The story goes , that a Yankee dude stumbled by mis-
take, in a fog, into the pit of the London Lyceum, in
mistake for the Gaiety, and sat out Irving’s Macbeth. lie
gave an oracular opinion—“ Rather funny, but I don’t
think these Scotch pieces lend themselves quite so readily
to burlesque as others.”
Wybert Reeve introduced Irving to the London stage as
Dorincourt in the “ Belle’s stratagem,” at the St. James’s
Theatre, under Miss Herbert’s management. She asked
Reeve to act Dorioourt, but he referred her to young
Irving, of Manchester. This was in 1866.
Hadden Chambers, it would appear, is not on his way
to Australia as cabled. He writes under date2lst January,
saying that “he hopes to pay a flying visit to Sydney
within a year or two.”
At the laying of the foundation-stone of the new’ Parlia-
ment Houses, Sydney, at Centennial time, Leon Carol'
was in charge of the musical arrangements, and the band
had somehow or other finished playing the Royal Anathema
before Carington, Carnarvon and Co. had started to leave
the scene. W. Gildea, a military bandmaster (and a good
one, too), was conducting, and Caron rushed up to Gildea
and asked him, in Heaven’s name, to continue playing the
Anthem I “Oh !” said Gildea, “I’m sure they’re quite
satisfied. I’ll swear theyoare alotlessxorit than you do.”
The band didn’t play any more, and Caron didn’t smile
any more either.
The “ Little Lord Fauntleroy ” Company had a rough
time on the Ranelagh between Sydney and Brisbane.
George Leopold and \Y. H. Leake were knocked down by
a heavy sea, and the former was so w’ashed about that he
was unable to appear as “ Mishtur Hobbsh” on arrival.
George will soon put himself right with his infallible
homoeopathic remedy. Meantime Cambourne doubles
with “Wilkins” and “ Hobbs.” We nearly forgot to say
that Miss Winthrop had her quota of lovely, black eyes
doubled.
In acknowledgement of past favours received by the
Thespians B. and B.’s company played “ Caste ” to a
bumper house on Wednesday afternoon last for the benefit
of tlie highly impoverished and rekerky “ I Zingari ”
Cricket Club.
The veteran Dr. Neild, one of Australia’s most fascinating
talkers, no longer writes theatrical criticisms in the
Australasian, to which he has contributed for a quarter
of a centhry. As everyone knows, the Argus and the
Australasian are under one proprietary. The Argus
wrote in one strain concerning Mrs. Potter; Dr. Neild
could not concur and claimed the right of giving effect to
his own judgment in the Australasian columns. The
Argus authorities objected, hence the trouble.
The South Australian Register goes with
Henry George in nearly every particular of his
policy.
A Sydney barber charges nine guineas for
a horsehair lawyer’s wig. You could buy a good
horse for that much.
Yon Moltke is one of Emperor William’s
delegates for improving the condition of the
German working man !
Moulden, the South Australian Attorney-
General, has resigned. He is chiefly known as
the weakest Attorney-General South Australia
ever had.
Lord Roseherry has, in the House of Lords,
designated Lord Wolseley’s threat of leading the
men of Ulster against Irish Home Rulers, as an
act of disloyalty as bad as any practised by the
Nationalist party.
An excellent comment on the N.S.W.
Foreign-trade system is that three of the largest
coach and buggy building establishments (not im-
porters) in Sydney have closed their doors within
the month, their premises being now idle.
An English firm are importing mummified
cats from Egyptian tombs for sale as manure.
Another source of wealth to the Egyptian is his
mummied ancestor who when ground down makes
an excellent weather - repelling house paint.
“ Great Oiesar dead,” &c.
That crying scandal, the Cutler case, in
Melbourne, is still undecided. Three young
fellows are languishing in prison under heavy sen-
tence for perjury, while everyone admits that they
must lie guiltless if a number of their companions,,
acquitted by subsequent juries, be innocent. It is
satisfactory to note that the matter is being stirred
up again.
Concerning the ancient stranded vessel
with a tree growing through its hull, spoken of by
“ Anon” in The Bulletin of March 1, Mr. John
Tasker, of Wellington, N.Z., writes us pointing
out that, according to a paper read before the
N.Z. Institute in 1887 the vessel is the*Endeavour,
800 tons, which left Sydney commanded by Cap-
tain Bampton, in company with the Fancy, for
India in 1795, and was run ashore at Dusky Bay
in a terribly leaky condition. These particulars,
gleaned from the diary of Judge-advocate Collins,
of N.S. Wales, are corroborated by the present
N.Z. Surveyor-General, who states that m 1808
the brig Venus, never since heard off, commanded
by Captain Bass, discoverer of Bass’s Straits, left
Port Jackson' for South America, Bass having
declared his intention of visiting Dusky. Bay in
order to strip the Endeavour of her anchors’and
ironwork.


WOLFE’S SCHNAPPS!
,§l2OO a
year given away in §1 Orders
Ls superseding all other spirits.
Write for plaits £lO BniWins sites, Perth,
Western u-tr;i’i„i. Intereolonial Investment
Coni pan}', I.muted, *Hi l.'utlnirst street, Sydney.
The Choicest Jewellery. D.uims & Co., King-st. Arcade
A Bailiff’s Trouble.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
(BY X.)
In a certain city there is a bailift for whom
the world has become even as a dry husk. His
life had been a joyous and light-hearted one until
quite lately. Ile had pursued an unclouded career
of public usefulness in the humble but necessary
occupation of distraint, and had gaily attached
almost every kind of household goods and per-
sonal effects. He had reduced seizure to a
science, and had performed his functions with
affability and delicacy, yet with firmness, and had
always established himself as a prime favourite m
the homes of the best people with whom he did
business. He needed and generally received no
invitation, but bravely went where he chose—
chiefly when they didn’t know he was coming
and stayed there in spite of any hint from ill-
disposed people to go. He would laugh oft any-
thing of the sort, or reason the thing out as a
friend, and never think of going until the furni-
ture and fixtures went with him. He was, in
short, a bailiff of the good old school which is
disappearing from among us. As one who has
entertained both the ancient and modern bailiff,
I can speak with authority and weight upon this
point. There was a time when the average bailiff
carried sunshine and almost a sense of security
into a house with him, and I have often looked
forward to the entertainment of one particular
and tried friend with pleasurable anticipations.
He was a fellow of infinite wit, and as welcome
in our quarter as ever was barefooted friar m
times gone past. But it is no longer so, un-
fortunately. The bailiff of to-day appears to have
either joined the Local Option League and the
Salvation Army, or receded into Calvinism. He
undertakes the double task of securing earthly
treasures, such as furniture and personal effects,
and those which moth nor rust can corrupt nor
anyone shift after dark on a lorry, by entering
into possession of the worldly goods of a family
and endeavouring to secure its spiritual good.
The distracted wife or the gloomy husband in
whose best parlour he reigns supreme are blandly
approached with tracts which inquire—“ Are You
Keady for the Great Bailiff?” or “Do You Believe
in Dell?” The modern bailiff exhorts to repen-
tance and is fluent upon the subject of the wwath
to come, and generally carries with him a stock of
blue ribbon to pin on people’s chests. Not of these
was this particular one. He was a very Mark
Tapley or Harold Skim-pole of bailiffs, who ex-
tracted all possible honey out of his callirv? and
pursued it as a man and a brother.
# * *
But all that is changed. From oeing
a jovial wight who could crack a joke or tell
a merry anecdote of the blushful kind to be-
guile liis hosts, he has become an object of pity
and derision in the public streets, a spectacle
for the slow moving finger of scorn to indicate
to perfect strangers. No n ore for him the
quip and the rejoinder that set the di trained
table in a roar—but curses, vast and all-embracing.
He inhabits a desolated earth and smiles
never, but lifts clenched hands of impreca-
tion to a mocking sky and calls upon deaf gods to
annul Cosmos and strike flat the thick rotundity
of the world and crack and spill and char and
dessicatc every germ that makes ungrateful
man, and more especially cunning woman. Ho
wants at present to die, along with all that
liveth, in one magnificent collision of a thousand
million derailed and telescoped universes ; he asks
to be cancelled and ground into sulphurous dust
with all that ever was, or is, or will be, in the
heretofore, or here, or hereafter, and swept into
the red-litten, illimitable, shoreless seas of molten
space by one irresistible and quenchless cyclone of
the flaring atoms and fragments of all things.
Failing the full bill, he urges Omnipotence to fall
upon and put out and sink, and burn, and paralyse,
and utterly abolish, and remove and take hence
his last client and all thereunto appertaining. It
was thus. He It ad been put in possession of the
effects of a person, who on no account could be
induced to pay up, and bad been graciously re-
ceived. The husband explained that the money
would shortly be forthcoming and treated his pre-
sence lightly, and as one of life’s merest jokelets,
and the wife was gracious and charming and beauti-
ful. They took the Man in Charge into their full
confidence and explained how everything stood,
and how an expected remittance in a day or two’s
time at furthest would more than satisfy all
his claims. The bailiff had a good time
with them, and they laughed at more than
one of his witticisms, and evidently regarded
several of his stories as being almost new. In
the evening the husband assumed his greatcoat
and went out on business which would take him
to a distant suburb and detain him several hours
at least, and the servant-maid asked and received
leave to go for the night and see her sister or some-
body.
# * *
The bailiff and the lady of the house were
the only persons left on the premises, when a
knock came at the door, and a large and angry
gentleman,, armed with a large and congested stick,
appeared. He pushed his way into the room and
demanded to see the husband. On being told that
he was not at home, the intruder indulged in
language and actions calculated to cause a breach
of the peace. He wanted his money, he did, and
he’d lie blank well Deity blanked if he was going
to let any blank blank play blanked games on him
_,fid they see? He was a creditor, and he heard
that another creditor had got a judgment and was
going to put in the bailiff, but he was there first
and was going to be his own blank bailifft The
lady was almost hysterical with fear, and explained
that she knew her husband owed him the money,
and would pay in a day or two, adding—“ This
is the bailiff: he came in to-day.” The stranger
glared on the bailiff, who, like most cheer-
ful creatures, was not of a warlike disposi-
tion, and took a fresh grip of the thin end of
his stick—or, rather, the end that was least thick.
“ Oh, it is, is it ?” he said, oathfully. “ Got ahead
of me, has he? Look here, missis—no blank to-
morrer or the day afters for me. I’m here,
and, by Heavens here I stop till your hus-
band turns up and I get paid, bailiff or no
bailiff. I'll wait at the door for him, if it’s all
night, and I’ll have that money out of him or I’ll
murdet him and all of you, and smash the whole
blank pjace and everything in it into blanked
•hiverebps ! I’ll show you whether any rubescent
bailiff is going to euchre me.” Then he withdrew,
and was heard pacing angrily up and down trie
gravel inside the garden gate.
* * *
The lady was almost swooning, and the
bailiff’s heart sank within him. It was a lonely
suburb, and they were apparently at the mercy ot
a reckless and desperate man. In the interval ot-
her sobs, the poor, affrighted woman told the bail ill
of this man to whom her husband had the misfor-
tune to owe a few pounds. He was a homicidal
semi-maniac, who had already been tried tor kill-
ing a man during one of his ungovernable fits ot
passion, and was capable of anything, one im-
plored the troubled vassal of the law to lock
the door and put the sofa and table against it,
and go quietly out the back way, fly for the police,
and bring a whole posse of them round in the form
of a hollow square to grapple with the monster
whose heels still crunched to and fro faintly out-
side. He was of the same opinion. He wanted
to go, anyhow. The back way for him by all
means. He would return with half the force in
uniform, if he once escaped, or not at all. oo he
furtively blockaded the door, and made his exit.
The night was black as pitch, the hour was late,
the way long, and the police not to be found. It
was an hour and a half before he got back with
two of them and a dozen armed citizens.
* * *
Alas for human duplicity, and for our poor
demoralised nature, over which the trail of the
serpent is plainly observable at intervals. l ive
minutes after the bailiff had got out by the back, ten
sturdy men, led by the truculent ruffian, now a
most companionable personage, were engaged in
loading all the goods and furniture into four large
vans under the careful guidance of the husband
and wife. Half-an-bour the procession
started. When the rescuing contingent arrived
the police went forward to take bearings. I here
was no one at the gate on sentry now, and the
house was dark. Had murder been done ? I hey
went to the door and tried it. It was locked.
They called aloud and beat upon it in vain, no
answer came. They burst it open and rushed in
and got a light. The rooms were absolutely empty.
I» "
(Arpt-UM V/ook h e X. QP - C f Z° U C, /‘
i'll c^Vil fill y en r,,r ' ' °*°
r>") 1 I | <S_) ' s «
'
Not a removable thing was left in any of them—
all the valuable assets in the way of drawing-room
furniture were gone ; all the kitchen utensils ; all
the bedding. Yes! one removable thing re-
mained. On the wall hung an illuminated text
which a word interpolated in feminine hand-
writing had made to read : “ God bless our future
home.” And that is why the bailiff now sits with
his soul steeped in brimstone and his spirit tilled
to the lips with fiery death awaiting only the time
“ when God shall loosen over land and sea the
thunder of the trumpets of the night.”
Old-fashioned Jewellery modernised to perfection. De-
signs free. Daiims and Co., King-street Arcade.
From an American paper
To surprise Mrs. A. R. Rose, of Cincinnatti, on her
birthday, her friends put a brass band in her parlour, and
the hand struck up “ White Wings ” as she entered. Mrs.
Rose fell in a fit and died.
Thank you very much, Mrs. Rose.
The Quetta rock lias been found—half'a-
mile from where the ill-fated vessel sank. The
Atlantic steamer Arizona, a year or two ago, had
a worse disaster than the Quetta, and yet arrived
safe in Liverpool from New York. She ran into
a monster iceberg, and about 70 tons came tumb-
ling down and smashed her bows right off. the
watertight compartments saved her.
Isn’t there something nauseous in this
practice of bringing the corpses of the wealthy
from England to Australia for interment, and the
long prayers made over them by the clergy ? In
the case of a man like Wentworth such procedure
might be excusable, but the strut made about
poor Ormond was ludicrous. The other day there
was the same mummery over the late Mr. Walker,
M.P., in Melbourne —an excellent man in his way,
but only thus honoured for his money.
The New Super of Oakley Downs.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Oakley Downs, as it was called by courtesy, was
noted throughout the district as a station war-
ranted to ruin the proprietor quicker than any
other two in the neighbourhood, ihe number ot
times it had changed hands was not on record, but
the many men who had lost small piles on it were
to be found all over the-colonies. Why in bitter
irony it was called Downs nobody could under-
stand. as from start to finish it was nothing but
one mass of brigalow and gidya scrub. As tor
the cattle —well, the constant change of ownership
and resulting neglect had rendered them notorious
as the wildest scrubbers in Australia.
But in Sydney or Melbourne Oakley Downs was
quite a different place. There, in the hands ot
the plausible stock and station agent, it became a
gem of the first water. “Scrub, sir of course
there are small belts of scrub on it, and they form
one of the most attractive features. All the best
kinds of saltbush grow in the scrubs, and on Oak-
ley Downs want of feed is never felt; fat cattle
when you couldn’t get a beast elsewhere, and, as
for water, why, on some of the holes you courd
float the Orlando.” Certainly there was plenty
of water. The Bignargo river ran through the
centre, a river of billabongs, wherein were ong,
serpentine holes of milky, clayey water, bordered
on either side by the grey monotony of the bnga-
low. A more depressing, melancholy spot never
existed than Oakley Downs.
It was with a feeling of commiseration, then,
that the news was heard in the district that one
more unfortunate had invested in the ill-starred
place. Various rumours were afloat concerning
the new proprietor. Some said he was an inno-
cent new-chura, who had been shamefully taken
in. Others would have it that it was a confident
old hand, who had vowed to make the place pay
when everybody else had failed, and altogether
speculation was rife to an alarming extent. Ihe
old hutkeeper only grinned to himself. He was a
fixture on the place and was passed on from one
to another as the successive owners retired stone
broke ; as a rule, lie gave each man eighteen
months to get sick of his bargain, and then he cal-
culated on six months of inglorious ease.
This misanthropic guardian sat outside the
hut smoking his evening pipe and wondering
when the new owner would make his appearance,
when his eye was caught by a thin trail of dust
rising over the scrub giving notice of the approach
of a traveller. It was a feature of Oakley Downs
that it was either bog up to the girths or dust.
Presently the rider came in sight leading a pack-
horse, and the nearer he came the more old Bui
the hutkeeper stared. Such a peculiar figure had
never been seen on Oakley Downs before. A
sallow youth of about two-and-twenty, riding all
over his moke as though he had never had much
practice in horsemanship, and painfully pulling
along a reluctant packhorse. He was dressed in
black clothes, wore low shoes, had on a white
shirt-collar, &c., and, to complete the “ flabber-
gastion ” of old Bill, a tall silk hat!
BiH was bereft of all powers of speech, hut
managed to come forward and take the packhorse,
while°the new-comer awkwardly and stiffly dis-
mounted. “ This is Oakley Downs station ? ho
asked. Bill intimated that it was. “ I’ve come
up to take charge of it for my uncle,” was the
astounding answer. Bill could only gasp in
silence. Oakley Downs, that had scared the best
scrub-riders of the continent, in charge of this
strange object! “ Are you a stockman ?” was the
next query. Bill replied that he was everything
just then, and, overcome with pity, he led the two
horses up to the verandah of the house, followed
b y the new super., who walked very uncomfortably.
Bill unpacked and unsaddled the horses, and
then told his new boss that he would bring him
in some tea directly. The stranger thanked him
effusively. “You know,” he said, “ I get so con-
fused with all those straps and things on the
saddle ; I had such a job to get that tail strap on
this morning.” “ That what ? ” asked Bill. Iho
super indicated the article which Bill recognised
as the crupper, yet he said nothing, ho was too
far gone for surprise ; but straightway went on to
t he kitchen and lay down on his bunk to enjoy the
situation for five minutes.
When Bill took the tea in he found Mr, Mel-
rose, for that, he informed Bill, was his name>
seated reading a book. He had brushed hi,,
clothes and hair, and, as Bill said, “reminded him
of church more than ever.”
“ I will get you to come over and talk to me a
little after tea,” he said to his astounded assis-
tant, “I want to learn something about the run,
and I suppose you know all about it.”
In obedience to this summons Bill proceeded to
the house and found Mr. Melrose with a number
of books on the table, evidently produced from Ins
voluminous pack-bags.
“ I hear the oxen are considered very intract-
able,” he said, after Bill had sat down.
Bill pondered a minute. “ Do you mean, he
said, “ that the cattle are as wild as hell ?”
“ The young man flushed painfully. “ Do not
use such strong expressions,” he remarked. “ Now
I have been thinking oyer several devices whereby
we might manage to bring them to subordination,,
and I should like your opinion of them. Here 1:5
an account of a man meeting a lion unexpected! 3,,
and how, retaining his presence of mind, he stared!
fixedly at the animal, when the king of beasts;
slunk back into the jungle. How do you think
that would work ?”
“ Is that a true bill, mister ?” said Bill.
“Certainly; it’s in a book published by the;
Religious Tract Society.”
“Well,” returned the puzzled cook, if you re-
going to walk through these blooming scrubs until
you meet a bullock, and then stare at him till be
gets into the yard, you’ll be a thundering old man
before you get the first one in.”
‘ ‘ Here is another plan which with the aid of some
of our black brethren may be effectual. You see
this engraving—it is in a book of African travel.
The natives dig a great pit and. put sharp stakes
in it. Then they form a half-circle and drive all
the game to this point and the game fall into $he
pit. Do you think we could do this with the
cattle
“And how do you get ’em out of the pit.'
asked Jbll* ,,
“ They would have to be left there, I suppose,”
replied the young man, “I only thought of this as
a last resource. Then there are pitfalls we might
dig in the forest; traps we might set so that the
ox would be caught by the leg when his bellowing
would attract attention. ’ ,,
Bill began to feel uncomfortable. What did aU
this point to ? Was he alone on the station with
a howling lunatic? . . , , T
“ And now, before we separate tor the night, 1
will read prayers, and then we will supplicate that
the hearts of these savage beasts may be tamed
and rendered gentle as they will be during the
millennium. ”
Bill said afterwards he was afraid to cross him,
so he sat out meekly half-an-hour of reading and
praying and then departed.
About twelve o’clock, when all was silent, the
noise of a korse leaving the station might have
been heard. It was Bill, making tracks to the
next station as hard as he could to report the
arrival of a hopeless monomaniac. Cameron Vale,
the next station, was only eight miles away, and
when the owner, who was a good-natured fellow,
heard Bill’s strange story, he determined to ride
over and investigate matters the first thing the
next morning. Bill accompanied him, and the
two of them arrived about seven o clock. Dill
went to the kitchen to prepare breakfast, and
Dermott (the owner of Cameron Yale) introduced
himself to Melrose as his neighbour. Melrose, in
spite of his strange attire, was evidently a gentle-
man and as they sat at breakfast he returned to
the subject of the cattle. “ I think, ’ he said, 111
his feebly solemn voice, “ that you trust too much
to skill in horsemanship to gather the herds in.
I was thinking of stretching fencing-wire from
tree to tree throughout the forest at about two
feet from the ground. It would thus form a per-
feet maze in which the animals would be coin-
pietely bewildered, and over which they would
constantly stumble. Do you not think they would
speedily become frightened and tame ? ’
Dermott thought not, and, without betraying
surprise, turned the conversation into the subject
of the purchase of the station. Melrose informed
him that the purchaser was his uncle, Dean Mel-
rose, of Oulquone, and that the place was bought
cheaply for himself and his brother.
“ Do you expect your brother up: asked
Dermott. , .., ... . ,
“ I hope not,” was the reply ; he will inter-
fere a good deal with ray plans. You see he has
been used to station-life and got all the old-
fashioned notions.” .. , , _
“ Have you ever been on a station before .
asked Dermott. ... „ ,
“ No,” replied the other, with the first symp-
toms of irritability he had shown. “ I have had
a great disappointment. I was dedicated to quite
a different work, but it matters not—I have my
talent. I understand there is a large supply of
water,” here lie continued after a pause.
“ Yes, you’ve plenty of water,” said Dermott
“ So I understood ; now 1 think that we could
utilise it this way. Pump it into reservoirs high
up in the trees in different places, then, by means
of hose, use it to drive the cattle to where you
wanted them to go. They would not face a strong
stream of water. Do you understand I
“ Well, not quite,” returned Ins companion.
“ Ah ! perhaps so, I know I am a good deal
ahead of the time.”
Dermott soon after took his leave, reassuring
old Bill that there was no harm in the supposed
lunatic, and he would probably have easy times of
it He himself determined to wire down to the
agents and find out the truth of the matter, but
in this design he w.as frustrated. Just as he was
preparing to leave a horseman came ruling rapidly
vip to the station. Whenever Melrose caught
sight of him he uttered an exclamation of disgust.
“Now, here’s Ned come to upset everything !
The'new comer dismounted and saluted hi a
brother laughingly. “You stolea march on me, old
man, but I’ve managed to come up to tune after
all.” Melrose turned into the house with a de-
jected air, and Dermott introduced himself to the
stranger, who was evidently the brothei.
“ Has Jim been saying anything funny ? asked
the new-comer. “Fancy his riding up to the
station in such a rig ! I expected to pick up Ins
pieces on the road.” , . ,
Dermott said that some of his remarks showed
a decidedly strong imagination.
“ Ah, yes,” said the younger man, he was
going to be a clergyman, but he overdid it. Broke
down and had brain-fever from overwork, bmea
then he’s got an idea that he can invent anything
He was coining up here with mo, as wo though
the change would do him good, but at I ort koya
he gave me the slip and started off by to
commence some of his experiments, I suppose.
Oakley Downs was quite true to its name
Eighteen months quite satisfied the younger Mol
rose; but the next occupant found all manner o
strange fixtures about the place, which Bill tom
him were duo to the misdirected genius ot
would-be cattle-tamer.
DELCOMYN.


•25*.
INC
9 Jf Cbleb hat£d
t '
-
X r 'M
.>6ate (3,<jg4vt>,F.
URQRA-. iND. jii
d
BUGGIES, BUCZBOARDS,
— axi> —
VICTORIAS,
At MANUFACTURERS’ PRICES.
Send for Catalogues and Prices to
THE E. B. WHEELER CO.,
265 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
Personal Items.
It’s “Jubilee Juggins Benzon ” no longer
—“ Stone Juggins ” now.
It is more than probable that Gladstone
will outlive Salisbury.
Fraser Smith, the militant Hong Kong
pressman, is in trouble again.
Lord Beerthirst owes £25,000 and has
alleged assets of £5OO to pay it with.
Henniker Heaton has been cabled for and
will probably soon arrive in Australia.
Gray, the South Australian millionaire,
collects all his rents personally every week.
The late Dr. Bollinger had more hair
than Parkes, and all of a beautiful brown, up to
*7 years old.
Lord Castlereagh advertises that he is open
to supply the London public with coals at the
lowest prices.
Baker Weeding is having another shot at
Dr. Rose in the Melbourne Divorce Court. Pull
doctor,, pull baker.
Mary Anderson probably is engaged to a
feller this time. Why, the icy goddess must be
about two and thirty.
Phil. Robinson has gone to America, and
the editorship of the London .Sunday Times is
under offer to G. A. Sala.
A Melbourne paper says that Parkes in-
tends to make himself more familiar with the
Murray. Lindley Murray we hope.
Ruskin, like Dean Swift, is “ a-dying at
the top first.” At latest mail dates, he was dying
in London a hopeless mental wreck.
J. H. Finlayson, editor of the S.A.
Register, is the son of a Primitive Methody
parson. How the parsons do like the press !
Stead will probably edit the London
Sunday Times, which is still owned by the
Princess Midas, who has parted with her Robinson.
Boyle Travers Finnis, the first Premier of
South Australia (from October, 185 G, to August,
1857) still live- 1 in Adelaide. He has a State
pension.
“King Baruch,” last of the Yarra Ybarra
tribe of aboriginals, on being introduced to Lord
Hopetoun declared that nobleman was “not fat
enough.” v
Gladstone asserts that no family can be of
purer Scotch blood than his, “ which never mixed
with extraneous blood, except once in the seven-
teenth century.”
Not many years ago, Premier Cockburn,
of South Australia, would not suffer a Bible to
enter his house. Nowadays he values it as a text-
book of Socialism.
James Tyson, who is said to be worth
£6,000,000, was in Sydney last week. It was
noticed that he wore a new hat, and a patent
celluloid masher collar.
Pitt Cobbett, the newly-elected Professor
of Law at Sydney University, once wrote a prize
essay on “ Legal Morality.” Obviously he can
write upon nothing.
E. H. Taylor’s examination in the Sydney
Bankruptcy Court is fixed for 3rd April next. A
lot of prominent business men look forward to that
date with very mixed feelings.
The late fashionable physician, Sir W.
Gull, used to make a point of fainting when he
saw one of his patients undergoing an operation.
Surgeons said it was all humbug.
The London Journalist for January con-
tained an intimation that the address of Mr.
Austin Brereton was unknown to the Institute of
British Journalists. And this is fame !
Broadley Pasha, the defender of Arabi
Bey, resigned his leading position on The World
and his connection with a London theatre just
when the Cleveland Club scandals were made
known.
At Bertrand’s first trial for the murder
of Kinder, Butler prosecuted and Dailey and
Windeyer defended—not Salomons, as is generally
supposed. At both trials each juryman’s name
commenced with the letter M.
“H.R.H. the Prince of Wales was very
friendly towards Peter Jackson, and shook hands
with him again and again.”_ Albert Edward
probably remembers a certain Sydney jubilee
meeting, and feels kindly towards all N.S.W.
pugs.
Murray Smith, formerly Victorian Agent-
General, went to England a year or two ago, and
floated in London a company to take up the vast
domains of the Fishers in Northern Australia, but
the company has lately come to grief in Adelaide,
and is being wound up.
“ Quida ” uses scent on her hair and eye-
brows that costs £8 an ounce. She loves lilies and
hyacinths, can’t bear the touch of velvet or muslin
that has been starched, and often throws herself
on a great Persian rug in front of her study fire to
ventilate her feelings by screams.
Novelist Howells says that while acting as
editor of the Atlantic Monthly he once declined
one of his own contributions. Self-abnegation V
Pshaw ! That’s nothing : with a proper regard for
the local libel-laws, and on second thoughts, we
have W.P.Bd. miles of our own best pars.
Now that the Duke of Manchester —the
old gentleman who was so fond while in Australia
of chucking pretty girls under the chin— is dead,
perhaps the Marquis of Hartington will marry the
Duchess of Manchester, with whom, for many
years, he has cultivated close platonic relations.
The late Richard Dowse, Baron of the
Irish Exchequer Court, was a schoolfellow at
Dungannon of Chief Justice Higinbotham, of
Victoria, and Chief Justice Darley, of N.S. Wales,
and although he died on the Bench denouncing
Gladstone, it was the latter who had been his
official patron.
A Sydney paper thinks it is a “strange
coincidence” that the Claimant should talk of
contesting the very borough (Stoke-on-Trent)
which returned Dr. Kenealy to the House of
Commons. Just as the Doctor traded on his
client, so Orton is endeavouring to trade on his
defunct counsel.
Rev. W. H. Fitchett, 8.A., editor of
Melbourne Daily Telegraph, is president of the
Methodist ladies’ college, at Kew, and responsible
editor of the Southern Cross, besides being a
director of several companies and a land-syndica-
tor. He is likely to be president of the Wesleyan
Conference pretty soon.
“ Well, Mr. Neild, are we going to have
a Parliamentary dissolution soon ? ” Jawbone :
“ I can only say I hope we shall. One thing I
know —I can go before my old constituents and be
returned without making a single speech.” “Yes,
I suppose you would stand a much better show if
you didn’t say anything.”
The Queen had tableaux vivards, at
Osborne, to amuse ex-Empress Eugenie on the
evening of the day on which Magdala Napier
(who was professedly accounted a great soldier)
was buried in St. Paul’s. Yet, when some miser-
able Royal dudelet dies the Court goes into strict
mourning for weeks at a stretch.
Somebody found fault with W. S. Gilbert
for coining the word “coyful,” on the ground that
one can’t be full of coy. Gilbert slew the shallow
individual with the query—“ Is it possible to be
full of ‘bash?’” But even Gilbert might have
made a better defence, by asking whether an
obliged party was ever fvdl of “ grate.”
Hugh Junor Brown, Chief Secretary
Deakin’s father-in-law, is reported to be incubat-
ing another big book. He is so rich that he cares
not whether anyone buys them. His combination
of distilling and spiritualism is the source of end-
TROUBLES OE A LIGHT WEIGHT.
JOCKEY (homer): “VERY SORRY, SIR, BUT I CAN’T QUITE MANAGE IT.”
OWNER : “BERN EATING ANYTHING?”
JOCKEY: “NO SIR, NOT TASTED ANYTHING SINCE YESTERDAY.”
OWNER : “WERE YOU WEIGHED WITH THE POUND SADDLE?”
JOCKEY: “YES, SIR.”
OWNER: “GOT YOUR LIGHTEST JACKET ON?”
JOCKEY: “YES, SIR.”
OWNER: OH! DO-I! GO AND HAVE A SHAVE.”
less miserable jokes. He is a good, easy man, who
smokes his pipe in his landau along Collms-street
block.
Professor Morris, Chief Justice Higin-
botham’s son-in-law, is back from America and
Europe, spry and sprightly as ever, and even more
determined as a Liberal, though with Imperialist
cranks. His liberalism lost him the Church of
England Grammar School, Melbourne, just as
Professor Pearson’s cost him the Presbyterian
Ladies’ College.
The report that after the Quetta wreck
Miss Lacey had floated for 20 hours without
support is thought by the rest of the survivors to
be an error, and it is supposed that during her
admitted semi-consciousness (“I thought 1 was m
an hotel under the sea”) she must have been
sustained by some buoyant material, ihis theory
is most probable.
The Rev. J. L. Dow, 8.D., Presbyterian
minister of Tumut, has trouble with his congrega-
tion, and a commission from the General Assem-
bly is to sit on him. If the commission get down
to' the bed-rock of the row, they will find the fiscal
question there. Dow is a red-hot Protectionist,
and has committed the unpardonable sin of saying
so from the rostrum.
An old captain of a coasting steamer tells
us he was‘present at a great anti-transportation
meeting held in the old Barrack Square, Sydney,
on September 1(», 1850. The crowd numbered
8000 people, and on the outskirts he observed Mr.
G. A. Lloyd in broadcloth, and Henry Parkes in
a white apron and paper-cap, having just left his
lathe to have a “ look on.”
London Times gives a lengthy review to
Lumholtz’s book on Queensland. Lumholtz spins
a good story, but is apt to mislead the untutored
in the matter of aboriginal cannibalism. He is a
Swede, collecting for the Royal Museum. His
favourite aboriginal said to him : “You always
must walk behind me. Me always want to spear
white man when mo see him back in front. ’ We
have heard this before.
POLITICAL POINTS
Thirteen members sat down to table at the
Federal Convention. Undertakers please note.
There are indications that a test question
at the coming S. A. election will be the capitation
grant to private schools.
The S.A. Advertiser sums up Parkes
“ His words are the words of a federalist, but his
acts are the acts of a provincialist.”
Says Henry George : “You certainly must
not buy the land owners out; you needn’t kick
them out : you had better tax them out.”
The first Federal step is to transfer the
allegiance of all the Australian troops from the
British Crown to the Federal Government.
Holder, the S.A. Treasurer, used atone
time to preach Land Nationalisation. He has
been remarkably quiet since he gained office.
The N.S.W. general election approaches,
and so the imprisoned shearers get out of gaol, and
350 Justices of the Peace are manufactured by the
powers that be.
Gold win Smith, who lives in Canada, holds
that that country must coalesce with the United
States, but he resists tooth and nail the separation
of Ireland from England.
Editor Parke, now in gaol, lias been elected
president of the Peckham and Dulwich Radical
Club. His predecessors were Cunningharae
Grahame and John Burns.
Mr. F. W. Hill takes up several pages in
the Contemporary Review to tell us about “The
Future of English Monarchy.” The Bulletin’s
political seer sums it up in one word—“ Sheol!”
Governor Kintore wishes it to be clearly
understood that he went to New Zealand as the
representative of South Australia. Does the in-
<—■ iuous K. want S. A. to foot its representative’s
bill?
After all, none of them at the Federal
Conference had the pluck of Adye Douglas, the
Tasmanian Premier, who, at the Hobart Con-
ference, rapped out that Australia must be inde-
pendent.
Mr. “ Hornsby” Davies, M.L.C., presided
at last meeting of the N.S. Wales Local Option
League, vice “Canterbury” Hutchison, M.P.,
resigned all along of the Divorce Court. The
League, it is thus evident, draws the line some-
where.
The S.M. Herald calls Henry George “a
man of one idea,” meaning, probably, with one
great object in view. The Herald is a paper
absolutely without, ideas, but, like George, it has
one great object, the reverse of his—to uphold
existing conditions.
Lord Salisbury did not instruct anyone to
warn Lord Arthur Somerset that a warrant would
be issued for his arrest next day. He merely said
a warrant would really have to be issued very
shortly and looked kind of significant like. How
these noble lords love one another !
The London Standard, it is cabled,
opines that Randolph Churchill is a deadly enemy
of the Government and advises him to join the
Opposition. Churchid opposes the Government
simply because he is not an office-holder ; ho can-
not help being a Conservative, could not possibly
be a Radies 1 .
There will be some interesting changes
when the new S.A. Parliament meets. It is not
at all unlikely that Bray, having thrown up the
Speakership, will join the Cockburn Ministry,
replacing Moulden as Attorney-General. Moul-
den’s chance of re-election is at present small,
Ash, late editor of the Naracoorte Herald,
being likely to put him out.
“The Customs officers of Port Melbourne
this morning had no difficulty in passing the
luggage brought by the third-class passengers in
the German steamer Salier. The worldly goods
of most of them consisted of a tin pannikin, one
shirt and a paper collar ; not even a cigar or plug
of tobacco could be stayed for duties.”—Melb.
Herald.
After all, there is something infra dig. in
seeing huge placards about Melbourne of Henry
George, as if he were only a Kyrle Bellew. Sup-
pose Robespierre had gone round that way-—big
posters of “Robespierre!”—all the sting would
have been taken out of him—no Reign of Terror.
This Yankee engineering style kills a Revolutionist
—as it would even a Gladstone, Bismarck, Napo-
leon, or Stanley.
A prominent N.S.W. Single-taxer has just
declared from the platform that “if monkeys
could be taught and their labour were cheaper
than man’s, the Freetraders would be justified in
using monkey-labour.” If so, what’s the matter
with those trained and trainable monkeys, the
poor Chinamen, whom we have cruelly and short-
sightedly kept out of Australia ? When the
Foreign-traders barred out Chinese cheap labour,
they fired the root of their creed into the dust-
heap.
In the American Senate recently, Senator
Dolph submitted a resolution to establish “a
modified Westminster Abbey at Washington.”
Here’s a chance for Parkes to get rid of those
State House plans at half-price. And, as an
inducement to the States to purchase them, he
might offer to throw his own ashes in without
extra charge, and so start the show. He need not
fear that N. S. Wales will object to their export.
“Parkes’ dust, 1 case,” would look well on a
Mariposa manifest.
Here is how matters stand in Afghanistan :
Ameer Abdurrahman has a gammy leg, and is ex-
pected to go off the hooks, wherefore the English
and Russians each have a candidate ready for the
throne. The Russian candidate is Ishak Khan,
the English candidate, Ayoub Khan, their right-
ful claims, as of the blood Royal, about
equal. Ayoub was in arms against the English,
but has been taken to their arms, and bides his
time in India. Abdurrahman is England’s
protege, but used to be under Russia’s wing.
Rogues all.
“ Thirty years ago,” says a Cootamundra
(N.S.W.) machinist, “I learnt my trade in the
same foundry in Scotland as did Hugh Lennon,
of Victoria. He now manufactures and I import
his work. Why is it ?” asks the N.S. Welshman,
“ we came out almost together. And yet, although
15 years back, with my head full of brains, my
arm full of strength, and my pocket full of money,
I started here for myself, the best job to be got is
at mending some old ramshackle buggy, whilst I
annually remit over £OOOO to Victoria for ploughs
and farming implements.”
Henry George is right off the wicket in
attributing the decline of the American Ocean
Commercial Navy, since he was formerly in Aus-
tralia, to Protection. The American Civil War
was the cause. American commerce flew then to
the English flag, as neutral, and stuck there.
Suppose England went to war with France
or Russia, how quickly the British com-
merce would fly to the American flag. Why,
scarce anything else would be seen on the Atlan-
tic ! This is impressed upon anyone viewing the
mileage of docks at Liverpool.
The Bulletin is very glad to see that
Sydney Evening News won the libel - action
brought against it by Mr. M'Laughlin. If a
newspaper may not, under the circumstances, say
what the Evening News said of Mr. M'Laughlin,
then it must be granted that the Press enjoys a
less privilege than the public. .Supposing any
private person had made, in a letter, similar poli-
tical reflections on Mr. M'Laughlin, would the
latter have dared to bring such an action in re-
spect to the circulation of the contents of the
letter between man and man ? Undoubtedly he
would not. The Press needs no more privileges
than are accorded to the public, but it should be
satisfied with no less.
That the leader-writers of the London
Times are not mentally what, judged by their
articles, they would appear to be is made pretty
evident in a biography of John M‘Donnell,
formerly “ the foreign politic ” contributor of the
paper. Writing in 1872, from Paris, he discourses
on the “moral pleasures of living in the free,
open air of a republic, away from the sham and
sycophancy of a monarchy, away from the de-
generating and slavish twaddle talked by pen and
pulpit about that wretched young man who is just
out of danger.” “The wretched young man ” is
Tummy, who had just recovered from his attack
of typhoid fever. British Royalty must be on its
last'legs when one of the guides of Tory opinion
holdeth this private view.
The day before Parkes introduced his
Protective resolutions in the Legislative Assembly
(7th May, 1860), his character was described in the
Sydney Empire in the following terms :
“ Mr. Parkes is the Admirable Crichton of the Assembly.
Unabashed by the harsh judgment pronounced on those
who rush in where angels fear to trend, he finds no subject
too knotty for his powers of intellect . . . But the
remarkable part of the affair is that nothing useful or
practical ever follows the exercise of these tremendous
talents. The distinguishing feature of Mr. Parkes’ career
is failure. The mountain is constantly in labour. He is
never tired of bringing forth the most diminutive as well
as the most ridiculous of mice. . . . It is true the
public took the trouble to examine, with some keenness
of criticism, this truly brazen image which has set itself
up in their midst, and to ask what act of Mr. Parkes has
brought any solid advantage to the labouring classes, and
whatTmeasure of his has ever conferred a benefit upon the
country.”


Justice Boreas, becoming convinced that
something is wrong with him, consults an
eminent medical friend. ' “ Fatty regeneration
of the congestive organs” was the dire
diagnosis of F.M. F.
Result of the photograph. 'FuTfier cT/j.
ccp/=>6iytryeijV _ To "/oat. bteas-
CLy/- ' O.T rfe Cb/r/cai
At length hi.s Honor,"after repeated private
: practice, deems it prudent to go for a •• spin
'on his own hook. How sweet to leave “ tin?
. shop ” far, far behind at every turn of the
wheel.
7, , _
Diagram 'of his Honors route. The
dotted marks show the eccentric track of the.'
machine.
“What you want,” continued the M.D.,
“is more nourishment and some gentle exer-
cise. If 1 were you Td learn to ride a bicycle,
for instance. I’ll give you a prescription to
an apothecary who will teach you.
“ 1 don’t think I want more nourish-
merit, but I’ll try the bicyele,” said his
Honor. -
The apothecary tills the doctor’s prescrip-
tion hy giving Ins Honor private lessons in
the hack shoj), to r the great damage of the
stock-in-trade.
Hallo 1 didn't see . that
tree. Horribly suggestive of
the shop, too 1 ”
.// He “ puts a penny in the
slot and can ( for the life
of him see that bicycle ex-
ercise has made any differ-
ence.
Obviously the first thing to bo done is to purchase
nn outfit and get photographed.
-9 ■< Aikl can’t you hurt yourself when you
fall on you liead without any wig on I"
I® “ And these here cobble-stones ar n t by
any means as soft to sit down upon abruptly
as the w oolsack
'• Gentlemen of the jury ! for reasons which I
could explain it 1 liked, tins here silting ot tile court
'will be conducted standing.
2^7*
JUS TICE ON WHEELS.
Itisnowin opon secret tha t a Supreme Court Judge is learning the bicyle.


d
v/W
6
d
WEATHER PROPHETS.
It WAR said in ancient times that two soothsayers could not meet without laughing outright. Here is depicted a meeting of the Prophet Egeson and Astronomer Russell


Foreign & colonial exchange bank
OF AUSTRALASIA, Limited.
Sydney—Bo King Street.
Melbourne—3oo Collins Street.
London Bankers —Australian Joint Stock Bank,
No. 2 King William Street, London, E.C.
This Bank undertakes the Exchange of Money,
l>oth Internationai, and Intercolonial, includ
ing the Coinage ok all Foreign Nations, in
addition to all usual and customary banking busi-
ness.
Deposits Received.
3 years
12 months ...
0 months ...
3 months ...
Communications to
Managing Director.”
8 per cent.
7 per cent.
(» per cent.
l>e addressed to “The
D J. WILSON,
Secretary.
The SYDNEY DEPOSIT BANK,
1)0 KING STREET - 90
Established 1885.
Agencies in London and throughout Australia.
Overdrafts granted against Deposit of Deeds,
and all the usual banking business transacted.
The following are the Kates of Interest allowed
for Fixed Deposits:
3 Years 95 per cent.
12 Months 85 per cent.
(i Months 7a per cent.
3 Months 55 per cent.
5 percent, allowed on daily balance of current account.
Tor the past Four (4) Years a Tonus of One per
Cent, lias been paid in addition to the above rates.
This is the first and only Tank in the. Colonies
which divides its profits with its depositors.
Communications from the country will be
nromptlv attended to.
T. S. RICHARDSON,
tiKNEHAI, MAN AliF.lt.
w. H. PALING & CO MPA N V, LIMI T E 1),
356 George Street, STDHEY,
H
AVE Jttst Opened a Magnificent Lot of UNTe-vv Flanoß from
Also of the wonderful Victor Pianos at £-4=5 and Entey Organs,
the celebrated Makers, Steinway, Erard, Uctel, Fenrich, Lipp, Eonisch, Eluthner, Collard.and others
uid Satcv Orerans, No such Variety or Value elsewhere for Cash or TERMS.
Society
Saumaurez Smith’s appointment as N. S. W.
Bishop is now made absolute. On arrival he will
find a nice little lump sum lying to his private
credit, the rents of the glebe-lands. It may not
be generally known that Bishop Barry, after ap-
pointment, had £2OOO sent home to him from this
source and found another £l5OO awaiting him on
his blessed arrival. Some one who ought to know
says that at the present rate of increase the glebe-
lands, Sydney, will be worth £BO,OOO per annum
inside fifty years. Verily it is better to be a
bishop than a journalist
•it # #
When the Right Reverend Father in God,
Charles Edward, “ by divine grace and permission
of Her Gracious Majesty Queen Victoria’’ —so
ran the blasphemous ‘ ‘ Royal mandate ” —‘ ‘ Bishop
of Bathurst, ” was installed in his diocesan seat a
couple of years ago he announced he had “come
to stay.” His flock listened and, with a defiant
scepticism, smiled : they knew too much of the
ways of Australian bishops to believe that. Two
years only and already the dread disease which
afflicts the bishopesses has seized the lady whom
it was expected would do the honours of Bathurst
Bishopscourt, but doesn't. “ The climate ”•—that
is to say, the “society ” —of the colony disagrees
with her, and an early trip homewards is on the
cards. And it is no secret that Dr. Camidge can-
not go too soon if diocesan interests are to be con-
sidered. Already one flourishing congregation
(that of South Bathurst) has been broken up by
his determination to superimpose a rigid eccle-
siasticism on free though still reverential ways,
and more than one hard-working clergyman has
betaken himself unto other dioceses so as to escape
the episcopal temper. How long are the Aus-
tralian clergy going to endure imported bishops ?
* # *
The oleaginous Rev. Nathaniel Kinsman,
the much-marrying man, has come to grief before
Judge Williams, in Melbourne, over his eagerness
in marrying a girl of 15 to a veritable boy—in his
opinion—on the strength of a forged certificate of
consent. The Judge vigorously trounced the fat
old fellow well. “He had,” he remarked, “seen
the Rev. Kinnsman in the box upon a somewhat
recent occasion, when he as clearly as possible had
married a man who was dead drunk, and who was
already m vrried, to a designing low woman who
had got ho’d of him. In the present case he did
not hesitate to say that Mr. Kinsman had wilfully
shut his eyes and closed his mind and married a
baby to this young boy. . . . He trusted that
the Attorney-General would be able to see his
way to take some steps which would have the
effect of preventing Mr. Nathaniel Kinsman for
the future either from marrying a drunken man
already married to a low woman, or from marry-
ing a boy to a young infant.”
# # #
Kinsman admitted seven thousand offences,
that is to say, he had celebrated —we believe
solemnised is the more reverential word—seven
thousand marriages ; he has turned off fourteen
thousand souls; then he simultaneously kept a
furniture shop, and so he was. yea, an All Pro-
vider, —a supplier of everything, from a bolster to
a wife.
# * #
Apropos of the capers of this greasy
old mystagogue, just consider the peculiar
superstition on which he lias traded, in the
“Solemnisation ”of 7000 marriages, turning him
in, in all, over ten thousand pounds •sterling.
What is the essential virtue in the laying on of the
sweaty fat hands of this auctioneer-parson while
he reads Mumbo-Jumbo out of a book? Thirty
bob—we beg pardon, shillings—is, lie says, Ins
regular fee, but we had thought it was more likf
five. Well, well ! We’ll be bound he didn’t put
it into the Premier Permanent Building Society.
* * *
Oneof an ex-Victorian Premier's daughters
was married—“ on the very strict Q.T.” —by the
universal Kinsman.
# * #
The Rev. Kinsman, by the way, couldn’t
tell the Melbourne Court where Rockhampton
was. He’s so confident of leading his flock to
Heaven that he never troubles about the geography
of the other place.
• # #
In a recent address to his theological
students, Professor Ren ton I, of Melbourne, illus-
trated the fact that literary men do not die
millionaires by mentioning that on the day when
the late Matthew Arnold’s will was proved in
London at £lOO9 the will of a London brewer was
sworn at £300,000. The lecturer might have
“ gone one better ” and told the undergrads, how
money can purchase everything in this world, not
excepting University honors. A few years back,
three men were simultaneously made honorary
Doctors of Law of an English University ; Dr.
Oliver Wendell Holmes, Matthew Arnold, and
Baronet Clarke, of Victoria—whose only con-
ceivable claim to the honour was that he had
plenty of lands, sheep and money.
* * *
At the laying of the memorial-stone of
the Janet Clarke Buildings, at Melbourne Uni-
versity, one of the sights outside the enclosure
was an aide-de-camp holding the Governor’s hat
and gloves while that great young man was
making it right with Providence to look after the
hostel when )t is finished. Under a marquee a
dirty and empty pickle-case served as a seat for
the hat and the aide-de-camp. Some irreverent
people wanted to drop pennies in the hat, but
they were restrained by fear of the just wrath of
the many female K.O.M.G.’s who were also under
the marquee.
# * #
The spectacle of Governor Hopetoun ad-
vocating the higher education of woman in the
midst of a bouncing bevy of Melbourne Univer-
sity girls, most of whom know more, eat more, do
more and weigh more than the pale little peer -
was full of weird pathos. Against that back-
ground of sweet fresh r, ses Hopetoun looked a
debilitated weed, and, but for the fact that they
thought he couldn’t help it, the girls would have
HOW SHE LOOKED.
STOUT TARTY: “HOW DO I LOOK?”
FRIEND: “A TREMENDOUS SWELL.”
giggled in the very presence of vice-regality.
When the poor fellow strained his weak treble
to its uttermost, and piped forth something to the
effect that he was “ standing there as a man,” a
twelve stone lady undergrad.—a great plump
dream of brown hair, blue eyes and cosy dimples—
nearly had a fit.
# * *
The undergrads, of Melbourne University
are cultivating quite an English drawl, don’t you
know. The only Australians to be found without
a search-warrant, at the ceremony aforesaid, were
the bricklayers on the half-finished walls of the
hostel. The prospect on which they looked was
more like a scene in comic opera than a religious
service. Bishop Goe and Dr. Bevan, and some of
the Presbyterian clergy federated for that reason
only to ask Heaven to look down on its servants,
the sweet girl graduates, when it has time to spare
from the Presbyterian church. Why the pro-
ceedings have been conducted by parsons and a
church-choir is a mystery. Women are not now
all snufflingly pious. Indeed, as enlightenment
spreads and girls take to reading for themselves,
they cease to dwell upon the gabble and clap-trap
of a ridiculously vain and weakly old-womanish
set of clergymen.
# # *
It was beautiful to seethe erudite modesty
with which our only Australian baronet dropped
his eyelids when Lord Hopetoun observed that
“so long as Victoria has men like Sir William
Clarke and Sir Matthew Davies there need be no
fear for the progress of the educational move-
ment.” At such moments as this the amiable son
of the big Tasmanian butcher remembers that he
was created an honorary LL.D., or something,
and wishes, from the bottom of his wealthy soul,
that he himself had enough educational movement
to rush him fairly through a ten-line speech,
# * *
The venerable beaks of Melbourne City
Court expressed a burning desire to have Nellie
Stewart in the box to bear witness against the
love-lorn mechanic who haunts her lovely shadow.
How they would have beamed upon the enchan-
tress through their gold-rimmed spectacles, re-
quested the sergeant to accommodate Mi ss Stewart
with a chair, and engaged in a feeble struggle to
make complimentary jokes ! But Nellie —clever
little thing!— was content to stop away and let
her humble mash be simply used as a cheap, first-
class six-sheet poster.
* # *
The cadet movement in the N.S.W. pub-
lic schools has already resulted in the enrolment
of over 5,000 boys in the various corps. The ulti-
mate results of this scheme will be most momen-
tous. It is to be hoped, in the first place, that
the present official tendency to gaudy red-striped
uniforms will be checked by public opinion, and
that, as the control of the young Australian
soldiers is for the present vested in personages of
strongly-marked Soudanish proclivities, no oppor-
tunity will be lost by nationalistic public men of
explaining to the boys that they owe their allegi-
ance not to the Anglo-German Royal family, or
to the hangers-on and admirers thereof, but to the
laud of their birth, Australia. The cadet corps
will, no doubt, be assiduously used as an
Imperialistic proselytising machine, and as a
means of filling up the youth with flatulent ideas
concerning the glory to be gained by interfering in
the quarrels of other people,
# * *
We have received several communications
dealing with the off hand manner in which a Syd-
ney Water Police Court Magistrate pooh-poohed
the evidence of six reputable witnesses as to the
horrible barbarity with which a police-constable
is alleged to have treated an inebriate whom
he was taking to the lock-up, while accept-
ing the evidence of a cabman and some un-
known personage as a complete clisproval
of their statements. Thk Bulletin is in-
formed by Mr. H. H. Clark, a reputable Newcastle
journalist, who witnessed the occurrence, that the
prisoner in this case was treated with most wanton
violence. The Inspector-General of Police should
make a careful investigation into this matter, as a
mere hasty Water Police Court decision affords no
index to the merits of such a case.
* * *
Labouchere’s annual motion in Mio House
Commons for the abolition of a hereditary House
of Lords has, it is cabled, only been rejected by(i‘2
votes; which reminds us that the hereditary Duke
of Manchester has just died, and has been suc-
ceeded in the title by hia eldest son, Viscount
Mandeville, a gentleman who, it would appear
from the reports of certain late police-court pro-
ceedings in London, is known among the brothels
of the world’s metropolis as “Uncle Kim ’’—that
title being derived from the ancestral halls at
Kimbolton Castle. This pillar of the aris-
tocracy, who now holds in the hollow of
his hand seven church livings, some years
ago married the beautiful and accomplished
Miss Oonsuelo Vznaga, but has abandoned
her in favour of Miss Bessie Belwood, a music-hall
artiste who pays “Uncle Kim’s” cab-fares
and “ stouches ” his Jehus for him when
they are too clamorous. The character of
his Grace of Marlborough, one of the most
recently-acceded dukes, the gentleman who
kicked his wife and told his mistress to be sure
and buy a second-hand perambulator for his
illegitimate child—has been pretty well ventilated
in the divorce-court; and the next Earl of Grafton
will, by the grace of God, be the present Earl of
Euston, who vainly endeavours to divorce the
South Australian barmaid whom he married, and
who lately paid a sovereign to see what the Cleve-
land Club was stuffed with. Long live the British
peerage!
* # *
“ Pendragon ” objects to peers marrying
“ beneath ” them, because the poor, but virtuous,
maiden never gets a chance of promotion. The
lucky lady is always selected, as “Pen.” puts it,
from a brothel, a leg-theatre, or the bar of a pub.
’Pis the way of the world. Does a poor, but vir-
tuous, man ever get heaved into the peerage ?
* # *
Mrs. Laura Lewis, a Tasmanian widow,
who is sueing Dr. Archibald Johnson, a young
beau, and brother to the late celebrated “boy-
girl ” of Melbourne, for breach of promise
of marriage, was a Miss Gres’ey, daughter of a
Hobart bank manager. She has retained Dr.
Madden and J. L. Purves, Q.C., but we daresay
the ungallant doctor can find legal talent sufficient
to make this unromantic suit very interesting to
the lovers of social scandal. Hobart society
records are thrilling, when properly indexed for
reference. The widowed Laura claims £lO,OOO
damages from her lost Petrarch.
# # #
Lady Hopetoun, the colleen, is alleged to
be a secret admirer of Parnell, and a silent advo-
cate of Home Rule. Which probably accounts
for her loyal Orangeman of a husband wearing no
hair on his face and as little as possible on Ins
head. Just thread on the tail of me dress, be-
gorra !
* * *
Rumour whispers that Carington’s exilo
is to be curtailed at the suggestion of his old
friend Tummy. The used-up Heir Apparent
wants somebody with whom he can yawn over the
giddy days of long ago.
'* * *
Her Gracious has dictated another
“ womanly ” letter expressing sympathy with the
mammas (Potts Point and Toorak will please ob-
serve that she doesn’t say “mothers ”) of the boys
who were cooked to death, in, locked dormitories,
at Forest Gate School. Our Sovereign Lady com-
fortably observes : “ It is a blessing to think that
the poor dear children cannot have suffered, or
even been aware of what happened.” Australian
boys know when they catch fire, as a rule.
# * *
Supreme Court Judge Stephen (N.S.W.) ;
“ Legislation compelling defences to be made on
affidavit ought to be enacted. ” Barrister Moriarty
“We would not have so much litigation then,
your Honor.” Mr. Justice Stephen : “We don’t
want litigation, Mr. Moriarty.” Mr. Moriarty:
“Certainly not, your Honor.” Barrister Moriarty’s
“of course not, your Honor,” is a masterpiece of
sarcasm. Judge Stephen being now paid by the
year and not as formerly, by piecework, “of
course” does not want litigation ; and equally as a
matter of course barrister Moriarty (and every
other lawyer), who gets paid by piecework and
not by the year, is absolutely shocked at two
people being so foolish as to litigate unless he hap-
pens to be in the case.
* * *
Queensland advt. :
Henry Wadsworth F. Smith, of , will not he re-
sponsible for any debts incurred by his wife after this
date.
With the aid of a compassionate and daring
editor the old woman kicks back next day right
under her husband’s advt.: —
Alicia Smith knowing that the name of her husband
(convicted last Tuesday, at the police-court, of drunken-
ness and assaulting the police, hut paid reporter to keep
his name out of the paper) is not good anywhere for a
<dass of beer or a bunch of stale bananas, has never de-
graded herself by asking tick in his name—nor will she
ever sink so low.
* * *
The Japanese Government has decided to
restrict the emigration of Japanese women to
foreign parts for corrupt purposes. It is not
known whether this motion has been prompted by
a visit to Port Darwin, but it is likely the afore-
mentioned news will be. received there with
mingled emotions. Palmerston has more Japanese
women in it than are good for id» morals, the
dusky sirens being scattered through a large
number of openly-conducted establishments. The
more decent-minded of the Port Darwinites hope
that the Japanese Government will follow up its


The
Marvellous
18s. 6d.
OPTIMUS
WATCHES
The Best, Cheapest and Most Accurate Timekeepers
ever produced.
Made espec ally to our order by one of the leading' and
most celebrated manufacturers of Watches in Switzerland,
and experience has shown that no watch is better than a
well-made Swiss one.
Gilt movements, jewelled in six holes, keyless (10 turns
to wind), enamel dials, crystal faces, well made, splendidly
finished, nickel cases that will wear excellently; in fact,
real good-looking, handsome little watches, and magnifi-
cent timekeepers.
Twelve months’ guarantee forwarded with every one.
Send P. 0.0, for 19s. 6d. (Is. postage), and have one
forwarded by post. If not in every way satisfactory after
a week money willingly refunded.
Only to be obtained from
FROST <3c SHIPHAM,
SPECTACLE MAKERS, OPTICIANS & ELECTRICIANS,
474 & 587 George Street, Sydney.
OWaSKrKSO
iVCVi
Watches and Jewellery are like good wives—they are
worth having.
Send for Illustrated Price List. Post Free.
Sl3 GKOKGE STREET, SYDNEY
(Nearly opposite Railway Station).
Factories: Liverpool and London, England.
£2 10s. English Lever, Two Years’Guaranteed.
£3 10s. English Lever, “The Unequalled,” full cap.
£1 English Lever, “ The Special,” compensated.
20/- The Unequalled Keyless Watch. 20/-
Country Residents and Visitors to Sydney call or send
to A. SAUNDERS, 813 George Street (nearly opposite
Railway Station), SYDNEY.
d
CONSUMPTION
SCROFULA
COUGH OH SOLD
Threat Affection
Wasting of Flesh
Oj’ any Disease where the Throat and Twigs
are Inflamed, Lade of Strength or Nerve
JPou'cr. you can be Jtelieved and Cured by
SCOTT’S
EMULSION
OF
PUKE ©OB LEVER OIL
With HypopliospWtes.
Palatable as Miul*
Ash for Scctt’a Emulsion, and let no ex*
planation or solicitation induce you to accent
a substitute.
Sold by all Chemists.
SCOTT & BOWNE, New York.
Kobertson’s Whisky. 3rxiizes
Givr.x AWAY 1\ THi: CO!/)NIKS
as rou.ows:
1« of X 5 each, &‘2, ami 70 XI,
Pamphlets from the Agents, ALIj'P
& CO., Limited, CHARLOTTE PLACE. SYDNEY
expressed intention, as there is really no necessity
to depend upon an alien race for the corruption of
North Australian morals, though perhaps after
all it is better that foreigners should be the instru-
ments of evil instead of women of Caucasian
blood. It was lately rumoured that one of these
Japaneasy women had been stricken with leprosy !
* * *
A Sydney barmaid, alive probably to the
staining properties of aerated waters, stands be-
hind the bar with her hands encased in kid-gloves
of the latest style and most expensive make.
* * *
A Melbourne paper breathlessly informs
the expectant public that “ Mrs. Potter introduced
a wrap on Tuesday night that she did not wear on
Saturday night.” That wrap should have been
billed by the management as a change of pro-
gramme. #
Can it be true that a military officer re-
cently imported by one of the Australias, and
who enjoys a very substantial fixed State salary,
is also managing or taking a leading part in the
management of a big commercial concern ?
* * *
The intelligence of the ordinary Sydney
Daily Telegraph reader may be gauged by the
fact that “Reginald Lamm ” (thief)— son of
“Lord Yoleur ” (robber)—who wrote a clumsily
satirical letter on the coal-strike, in which he
attempted to show the weakness of the owners’
position while upholding it—received in one day
seven replies all penned in sober earnest, and
occupying a column and a-half’s space. While
such a pall of imbecility covers Sydney the out-
look is hopeless.
* # *
John R. Herbert, R.A. —whose ridiculous
picture of Moses carrying the Ten Commandments
on a couple of tombstones fills a considerable por-
tion of the Melbourne National Gallery—has gone
where the paint-slingers go. He was ninety when
he died, and as recently as 1887- he sent in his full
complement of privileged works to be hung on the
line at the Royal Accademy show. His produc-
tions have been standing jokes for the past 40
years, but there are still a few old gentlemen ex-
tant who can remember when Herbert was highly
esteemed as an artist. He had the lucrative job
of painting some vast frescoes for the House of
Commons which are reviled by everybody except
Labouchere, who affects to gaze upwards at
them with supreme delight. He says that
they are soothing to his soul. Now that the
good old Herbert is gone there seems to be no
reason why the Melbourne Gallery Trustees
shouldn’t take down “ Moses” and give the patri-
arch a decent Christian burial. Or they might let
the Jews have him at their own price.
* * #
Louisa Collins, who poisoned he*- husband
in Sydney, and denied her guilt, was hanged.
Elizabeth Rebecca Hyde, just convicted of poison-
ing her husband at Ipswich, Queensland, and
who admitted that “ she done it right enough, but
was persuaded she wouldn’t be found out,” goes
to prison for life. They hang women in New
South Wales ; they are averse to hanging women
in Queensland. The moral of Hyde’s confession
is that the gallows does not deter. Secret mur-
derers, the worst of all felons, do not fear the
hangman, for they feel certain, despite thousands
of examples to the contrary, that they will never be
detected, every poisoner thinking himself or herself
so much more clever than the last one. As to the
other classes of murderers, who commit homicide
under the influence of violent excitement, they only
fear death after the excitement which prompts
them to destructive action has passed away.
» * *
A Southern grocer has summoned one of
his neighbours for calling him a Mormon when he
was really—so the idiot protested—“ a respectable
married man.” And what else is a Mormon, we
would like to know ? If the grocer wants to pro-
duce a man more respectable and more married
than the late Brigham Young—well, he’ll have to
go back to Solomon in all his glory.
* * #
At last the through railway to Ballarat is
complete, and Geelong, erstwhile the Pivot of the
Universe, is finally ruined. You can now travel
from Melbourne to Ballarat in hours instead of
four by the old route. What thousands of years
of time have been lost to humanity during the
curcumbendibus which has prevailed for over 30
years !
J * # *
The Irish R.C. priests bitterly complain of
the undue favour alleged to be extended by Car-
dinal Moran to such of the clergy as have happened
to arrive in Australia via Rome.
* * *
“ A bounced witness for the defence,” a
professional man, writing to The Bulletin from
the country, wants to know why the daily papers
should refer to the affair between Judge Windeyer
and Mr. Field as “ a passage of arms,” consider-
ing that all the arms were in one hand only and
that all possible use waft made of the privilege
as against the defenceless counsel who may in the
moment have dimly remembered that people are
now languishing in gaol for a year for a contempt
of court committed in the presence of the same
majestic personage.
» # *
The Bulletin repeats that the greatest
contempt of court ever committed in N.S.W. was
committed by Judge Windeyer and Chief Justice
Darley when they neglected to notice the com-
ments of the press of the Western circuit upon
Judge Windeyer’s style of conducting his Court.
* * *
The Kurruk has changed its note over the
wicked Governor. M.‘Eachran, Rentoul, Mock-
Bain, and the Southern Cross are running out
all the big guns. The puir ying mon is goein’
poast ha-a-ste to destruction.
* * *
A Mr. Dashwood, addressing a large
gathering of ewe lambs, somewhere in the London
N.E. district, said; “I have never known a
Christian young woman to wear a fringe, or a
Christian young man to part his hair in the
middle.” All of which The Bulletin steadfastly
believes, and if the office boy will hand along the
harp—thanks;—
Extract from a criticism on Ibsen : —
Whatever may be their position in society, whatever
mav be their education and their temperament, all women
caii break off from one day to another, forgetting their
own affections of yesterday as well as the proofs of atfee-
lion which they have received. A man exhibits more
tenderness and consideration. For the woman whom he
loves no longer, but whom he has loved, he cherishes a
sentiment of pity; a woman is ignorant of these reline-
ments, and the man towards whom she has become in-
different is treated by her as a stranger, an enemy.
# # *
The Princess of Wales’s encouragement
of “ lady doctoring ’’—one of the few things, out-
side millinery, in which she evinces any intelli-
gent interest—may perhaps be traced back to that
mysterious illness resulting in her royal halt. If
wicked stories can be believed it is certain that
the Princess would have preferred female medical
advice and assistance in the time of her great
tribulation.
* * *
At Melbourne Hospital recently four at-
tendants stumped up to the bedside of a female
patient with a view to removing her corpse on a
stretcher. But as the poor creature turned out
not to be dead at all, the disgusted ghouls retired
muttering something to the effect that they had
just looked round to see how she was getting on.
* * *
The Bishop of Chester would like to find
out whether it is not possible to work a public-
house upon thoroughly satisfactory principles.
Why, certainly. Free drinks, brethering.
# * *
In a Southern town there lived a clever
medical man, whose chief weakness was to
periodically paint the town red, much to the
annoyance of the police and his patients. This
town possessed a gaol—a police-gaol—and the
keeper thereof was possessed of a somewhat ex-
tensive family. Typhoid attacked the family,
and about the same time a strong desire for
whisky attacked the medico —the only one in the
lown. A good night’s spree gave indications of a
big burst. The gaoler was at his wits’ end, but
he took a dacent constable into his confidence,
and between them and the P.M. they “ fixed up ”
the M.D. He was charged with being an habitual
drunkard, and got three months without the
( ption. For a whole quarter he was in constant
attendance upon the gaoler’s family without fee
c r reward, and on his release he wiped the dust of
that town from his shoes.
# * *
Resolution submitted by Alderman Larkin
to Camperdown (Sydney) Council: —
That the Mayor, aldermen and treasurer each obtain an
official dress-suit, to be worn on all State and official occa-
sions, banquets, &c., to consist of dress-coat with stand-up
collar, braided front and gauntlet cuffs, knee breeches,
black silk stockings, buckle shoes and three cocked hat.
The Mayor’s coat to have purple facings, the aldermen'*
blue and the treasurer’s gold. The council-clerk to be
provided with a white surplice trimmed with crimson.
This gorgeous proposition was only lost by the
casting-vote of the Mayor himself. How we do
admire any Mayor who is averse to being “ faced ”
with ruby !
* * #
According to the published statements of
Captain Sanders, of the Quetta, the Javanese
deck-passengers rushed and upset one boat that
had been despatched from the ship-side full of
women, and also snatched the life-belts from help-
less passengers. The Maritime Union have now a
grand white-labour text to preach from ; let them
make the most of it.
# * *
A Melbourne editor has discovered that
much sleep tends to precipitate baldness. And
yet sleep is called “Nature’s sweet restorer.”
# * *
A Melbourne judge has decided that the
purse is not an instrument of chance. And yet
lie is a married man.
* * *
The Prahran (Vic.) Bench the other day
refused to support the claim of a local milliner
who wanted 30s. for a bonnet, on the ground that
these tradespeople ought not to encourage extra-
vagance in working men’s wives. And yet woman
is never satisfied till she has a big price set on her
head.
* * *
Rev. Editor Fitchett, of the holy Mel-
bourne Daily Telegeaph, is straying from grace.
In a late issue he actually pictured the slightly-
clothed upper halves of the Sisters Von Tassell
(formerly known as De Freitas) in conjunction
with a highly apooryphal account of their career.
In a future issue he may—for such is the de-
generacy of human nature —probably give the even
more lightly-clothed lower portions of these ladies.
Nothing is better calculated to “fetch” the godly
than a little worldly relaxation of that character.
* * *
A Macleay River ex-J.P. has been amus-
ing himself and the inhabitants of Kexnpsey during
flood-time by vigorously hugging and kissing a
black gin named Maggie Bullock outside the prin-
cipal hotel.
1 # # *
An old lady who died lately was found to
have her bustle stuffed with bank-notes. Some-
thing like an “improver!” Apropos, American
girls now plump their pillows out with crinkly-
crankly love-letters.
* * *
One thousand cases of whisKy recently left
London for Bombay at a cost-price of Od. per
bottle. The writer (a Londoner) asserts that the
compound is nothing but what is known as mineral
oil, and that he was “ once asked to taste, not to
swallow—l was carefully cautioned against doing
that—a spirit which, labelled ‘Cognac,’was des-
tined for the colonies, to be disposed of among the
miners at the Australian diggings. This spirit, I
was credibly informed, was distilled from coal-tar!
Indeed, its taste—which it was impossible to dis-
guise—unmistakably betrayed its origin.’ Tub
Bulletin believes that this item lias a strong sub-
stratum of truth. Plenty of so-called grog vended
in Sydney, especially in the cheap bars, has an
unmistakable painty smell, which, if it does not
mean “rectified” methylated spirit, very likely
means coal-tar.
# * *
On board one of the Union Go’s boats,
between Australia and Auckland. Western
colonial gubernatorial swell and new-chum young
Englishman travelling. Gubernatorial Swell :
“ You purpose returning direct to London, 1 be-
lieve.” Young Englishman ; “Yes, that is my
intention.” G.S. : “I have a stockwhip which I
am most anxious to deliver to His Grace the Duka
of 5 and you, having been in the colonies,
would doubtless be able to show His Grace how to
use it. Further, it would be the means of intro-
ducing you to His Grace, who would then intro-
duce you to Her Grace, who would doubtless ask
you up to Scotland where you could have some
shooting with their Graces.” Y.E. : “ I will cer-
tainly take the stockwhip for you and present it
to His Grace, but if you think I am fool enough
to try and use it you are very much mistaken.
Should His Grace make any experiments with it,
in my opinion His Grace would soon find His
Grace’s eye on His Grace’s cheek.”
* * *
Spagnoletti’s spleen: “I am disgusted
with Parthriek’s Day, out and out. More
drunkenness than on any other three days in the
year, except the quiet boozing and soaking of St.
Andrew’s. Ireland never will be a nation till its
nonsensical sentimentality is knocked on the head. ”
* # *
Dead-heat —Cremation.
The Hair of Christianity.
This is a world of humbug, immorality, and guile,
Where sin is often covered by a meek and lovely
smile,
But, thanks to Mr. Dashwood, it shall ever be our
care
To recognise the wrong ’uns by the doing of their
hair.
For years we never guessed that woman’s character
may hinge
On a simple-seeming matter like a fetching bit of
fringe ;
Now, when we gaze on foreheads which are over-
run by curls
We turn away and murmur, “O, you naughty
little girls !”
AVe know an erring brother can’t be trusted with
the plate
A SWEET TEMPER.
SHE: “WHAT A BEAUTIFUL HORSE, CHARLES! I’D BUY HIM AT ONCE,
HE HAS A SWEET TEMPER, I’M SURE.”
CHARLES: “JUST WHAT I THOUGHT WHEN I MARRIED YOU, MY
DEAR.”
Whose tresses leave a tramway down the centre
of his pate ; ,
There is no pain or parting up in Heaven, we re
aware, . , . . .
But here you spot a Christian by the combing ot
his hair.
We felt a pang of sorrow, just a momentary
twinge, . .
When it struck us that our missis wore a selt-
accusing fringe,
For we knew her case was hopeless, as she s getting
on, alas! , . , , , ,,
Our servant girl, however, has it brushed as smooth
as glass.
And when from pretty Susan we had snatched a
pious kiss
She didn’t seem to take the little compliment
amiss; , , ,
She didn’t run away, or say she wondered we
should dare — .
For we taught her how to tell a Christian master
by his hair.
This is a world of humbug, immorality, and guile,
Where a parting down the middle shows a character
that’s vile, , , u .. . ,
And fringe upon the forehead is an attribute ot
sin— ,
As we often say to Susan when her missis isn t m.


“TV leading Packet Tea in Now South Wales
is the Famous Billy Tea. Its consumption is
at least double that of any other brand in the
market. ”
PACKED ONLY nr
James Inglis &; Co.,
4 & fi Oran’s Pi. act, SYDNEY.
¥•
K
cf
O
o
U
f
/UcnITS .
OELISSA i PHILLIPS
3&J Barack Street.
Government Advertisements,
T
ill
Department of Public Works,
Sydney, March 25, 1890.
ENDERS FOR PUBLIC WORKS AND
SUPPLIES.
For Conditions, see Government Gazette.
Nature of Works and Supplies.
Dates to which
Tenders
can be received
at this office.
Erection of Post and Telegraph
Office, Cundletown
Covering Roof, &0., Police Build-
ings, Albury (fresh tenders)
Additions, Hillston Gaol (fresh
tenders)
Repairs, Courthouse, Howlong
Additions, Cobar Gaol (fresh
tenders)
Erection of Police Buildings,
Menindie (fresh tenders)
Erection of Police Buildings.
Corowa
Wollongong Courthouse, Wall,
Railings, &c.
Erection of Police Buildings, Deep-
water (fresh tenders)
Engineer’s Cottage, Spit Ferry,
Middle Harbour .G. '
Additions, &c., Police Buildings)
Narrabri
Wood Paving, Cook’s River-road Wednesday,
Bridge, Shoalhaven River, at 2nd April,
W arri at 11 o’clock.
Additions, Public Works Offices
Erection Post and Telegraph Office,
Granville
Store Building, Chowder Bay,
Sydney
Drill Shed, Victoria Barracks,
Sydney (fresh tenders)
Fencing, Wall, &c., Industrial
School for Girls, Parramatta
Additions, &c., Coast Hospital,
Little Bay (fresh tenders)
Bridge Egan’s Creek, road Verong
to Mangoplah
Erection of Wharf, North Cod-
rington, Richmond River (time
extended)
Construction of Wooden Coaling
Punt for Manning River (fresh
tenders)
Supply of Portland Cement, Har-
bours and Rivers Department,
Hunter River District, 1890.
(Fresh tenders)
Erection of Lock-up, Borabala " ~
Retaining Wall, University Cut-
ting. Contract No. 1. Manu-j
facture, &c., of Ironwork and!
Lead for Railing ■
Erection of Post and Telegraph I
Office, Silverton
Additions, Police Barracks, Cud-1
gelico
Bridge, Boggy Creek, road Condo-[ <
bolin to Hillston (fresh tenders) | i
Bridge, Deep Creek, road Condo-
bolin to Wagga Wagga (fresh 1
tenders) I
Bridge, road Brooklyn. Railway':
Station to Old Peats Ferry Roan f Wednesday,
Bridge, Gundaman Creek, roadi April 10,'
Wiseman’s Ferry to Mangrove! at 11 o’clock.
Creek I
Bridge at Shar n’s on road II in-I 1
ton to Mount Kanwary
Bridge, Duck River, at Mona-[
street, Auburn i
Construction of Offal Barge for
Glebe Island
Ere otion of Courthouse, Berry
Renewal of Hotwater Pipes, Hos-
pital for Insane, Parramatta
Wharf, Kincumber Creek, Bris-
bane Water
Construction of Stormwater Sewer,
Pyrmont Bridge Road, Contract
No. 59 Sydney Sewerage. *
Additions to Wharf. Scan Oaks.
Macleay River
Construction of Wharf at By;wn
gum, Tweed River i
Construction of -Wharf, at Mnllum- •
bimby, Brunswick River
Construction of Wharf at Upper
Mangrove Creek, Hawkesbm-y
_ Biyer I Wednesday,
Construction of Wharf at Coekh-. April 30,'
Creek, Brisbane Water at 11 o’clock.
Construction of Strong - room.
Lands Office, Armidale
Additions to Hydraulic Engine
House, Bullock Island, New-
castle j
Construction of Cottage Creek-.
(Newcastle) Sewer. Contract. ,
JN t>. 1, County Towns Sewerage
Installation of Electric Light- “
Bullock Island, Newcastle i Wednesday,
Bridge, Lachlan River at Forbes. May 14,
Contracts 1 alVd 2 (time exL at It o’clock,
tended) k
BHUaE SiVlffol. 'd
Furniture, &c.
EWT O N AND LAMB.
FURNITURE and PIANOFORTE
WAREHOUSEMEN,
CABINETMAKERS, UPHOLSTERERS
AND
BEDDING MANUFACTURERS.
SHOW ROOMS AND MANUFACTORY:
SPRING AND O’CONNELL STREETS.
mMUM
Full suites for dining-room-side-
board, DINNER WAGGON, TABLE,
OVERMANTEL, COUCH, EASY CHAIRS,
CARVING CHAIRS and DINING CHAIRS,
all to match. Newton & Lamb.
SELF-ADJUSTING HAMMOCK CITAIH,
Patented.
■-
This chair adjusts itself to any position, from
sitting to reclining and vice versa, at the will of
the occupant. It is simple yet ingenious in its
construction; works automatically. The above
cut represents only two of the numerous positions
that can be obtained instantly, and with but little
effort. It fits perfectly every part of the body,
and gives the occupant entire rest. We can now
supply portable suspension Stands to enable the
Chair to be used anywhere. Price, with Stand,
305.; without Stand, 255,
D
Packing in canvas, if required, 2s. 6d. extra.
Fashionably
RAWING-ROOM SUITES,
Upholstered, at all prices.
OCCASIONAL TABLES in all Woods. Im-
mense variety of designs; also, elegantly
finished in Embroidery, Plush, &c. Newton and
Lamb.
ď
w
ALNUT FALL
FRONT PEDESTAL
WRITING DESKS, of vari-
ous sizes, fitted with Shelves,
Moveable Pigeon-holes, Slid-
ing Trays, Stationery, Draw-
ers, revolving portable triple
Inkstand. Receptacles for
Stamps, and Ruler and Pen
Racks. Outside Drawers divided into compart-
ments by movable partitions to admit of enlarging
or diminishing the space when required. Locks
automatically. One of the most useful, commo-
dious, and perfectly-planned articles for the Library
or Office yet produced. Admirably suited to the
necessities of professional and business men.
WALNUT FALL FRONT SINGLE
PEDESTAL WRITING DESK.-
Internal arrangements almost identical with the
description given above. Price only £l2 10s.
m
DR A WING-ROO M
CABINETS.
Early English
CHIPPENDALE DESIG NS.
Newton & Lamb.
d
BE D STEADS, all si zo
Nickel-plated and Black and
Brass. Great variety.
Bedding. All descriptions
at lowest rates.
Newton & Lamb.
>-
PR I NG MAT-
iO TRESSES (Woven
Wire), beat make; alao.
Spiral Spring.
Price, from 7a. fid. each'
FURNITURE.-Pine Tables, from
10s. ; Dining Tables, from 20s. ; Kitchen
Dressers, from 225. (id.; Washstands, from 12s. (id.;
Chests of Drawers, from 405.; Wardrobes, from
80s.; Cedar Cheffoniers, from 30s. ; Cedar Side-
boards, from £3 35.; Clothes Horses, from
Bs. (id. ; Writing Tables, with drawers, from 21s.
B
CECHE S T S.
ALL SIZES.
PRICES
LOW.
NEWTON anp LAMB.
đ
E x
CELSIOR
UPRIGHT
IMPROVED
REFRIGERATORS.
Van- ns Sizos, from 455.
FURNITURE and PIANOFORTE
WAREHOUSEMEN,
•CABTNETMAKERS, UPIIOLSTERKRS
AND
BEDDING MANUFACTURERS.
Show Rooms and Manufactory :
SPUING and O’CONNELL STREETS
CORRESPONDENCE
George Dawson” (Charters Towers): (1.)
Brazil, coast line, 3700 miles ; population about 12,000,000.
Peru, 15,000 miles ; pop. 2J millions. Argentine Repub-
lic, 550 miles ; pop., two millions. Chili, 1150 miles ;
pop., two millions. Venezuela pop., two millions.
Colombia, 860 miles ; three millions. Bolivia, 100 miles ;
2J millions. Banda Oriental, 360 miles ; four millions.
Paraguay, 380 miles ; population, variable. (2.) United
States, 12,610 miles, sea-board ; population in 1776, three
millions. (3.) Australia, 7750 miles, sea-board; popula-
tion, about 3| millions. These figures are in some
cases only approximate. You gave us a big order....
“Givis” (Charlton): Up to now the clergy have been the
guardians of caste-privilege and the opponents of reform.
The people will have to reform the clergy ere the clergy
will lend a hand towards Republicanism. Tub Bulletin
opposes not Christianity, but the greedy imposture
W’hich “travels” on bogus piety... “L. 0.0.”: The
Single - tax would confiscate the assets of many
frugal and honest workers for the sake of pos-
terity—“ And what has posterity done for us?”
“E.C.T.”: Why not send to Mining Standard? We
have no means of verifying your statements....
“Bob”; Good. ...“Long Jack” (Beechworth): Chestnuts.
....“H. Field” (Russell River, N.Q.): Have handed
letter and contents to Dymdck, bookseller, King-street>
Sydney, who will forward the book required.... “P. J.” :
Of course you will now retire from sign-writing....
“ H.R.” (Tamworth) : Too much introduction. Don’t
spread yourself on preliminaries ; get to your story. Pas-
toral poetry we don’t affect... “ Mentor ” : Many thanks...
“Moses”: “Independent Candidate” has merit, but
wants finish and condensation “W.H.S.”: Religion
and morality are totally different matters. We do not
grudge the Salvation Army lady her little capers; in
your case, we fancy, the grapes are sour “ M.J.A.” :
Tuneful, but won’t bear analysis. With a little more
confusedness, they’d rank as first-class “Nonsense
verses.”... .“A.M.S.” : Rhymes atrocious, rhythm shaky
....“Arthur P.”; You write without knowledge. In
spite of the rules, according to the daily press, a branch
with three Chinese members was recently affiliated to the
central body “Briareus.”: We haven’t got them.
Why not enclose clippings in envelope? “T.M.R.”:
It is alike a standing-out and a sign of the
times “ Yob ” : The local concert or bazaar is the only
show your bush-boy has of “ seeing life.” His exuberance
is excusable—“ Luckless”: May use “L ”; We see
no direct connection between the League and the Block,
promenaders, but will read again.... “ Bunyip”: With
pruning and polishing your verses would pass musten
though your images are by no means new. Your strain is
octo-syllablic, but in some lines you have ten, and even
eleven, sounds. “ Jargon ” and “ Pardon ”as rhymes are
ear-destroying.... “ A.C.T.”; Interesting but diffuse.....
“ Ernest S.E.” : Will read and consider “ Bokakkah”:
To hand.... “ E.L.L.” ;It was very human indeed for the
agnostic Sir Robert Stout to frown at the Redmonds be-
cause of their opposition to Bradlaugh. Liberty should
know no religious dogma, and the Irish party, when they
were so misguided as to deny Bradlaugh the right to sit
in the House of Commons on the ground that he declined
to subscribe to a certain religious theory, showed that
they were fighting less for the State than for the Church.
“ E. J. Mitchell ” : We have enquired, but find that
“ A Yankee at the Court of King Arthur” is sold out in
Sydney. Try Cole, Melbourne Book Arcade, or O. Robert-
son...“ H.F.G.” (Burwood), and “ J. 8.” (Cowra): Thanks.
....“J. W. B. Carron ” : If the Queensland Postmaster-
General thinks the freethinking paper illegal or blas-
phemous let him prosecute the proprietor at law and no*
resort to the dodge of refusing to mail it. Any law' which
vests any individual with a discretion susceptible of being
arbitrarily or tyrannously exercised without giving the
injured party legal redress is a tyrannous law
“J.D.M.” (Vic.): The fact of the bridegroom being
married under an assumed name does not render the mar-
riage illegal, for a man can call himself what he likes, and
where, under such circumstances, would the wife’s remedy
be? (2) If the children arc legitimate the property is
divisible under the ordinary next-of-kin conditions,.,.
“ C.C.” : “ Peter Possum’s ” real name was Richard Rowe.
He was first a tutor and then a journalist by profession,
and was a most accomplished and tasteful writer of
strongly Bohemian disposition. Many charming produc-
tions of his were contributed to the S.M. Herald of long
ago, also to the old Empire ; and if you would like to
become acquainted with some of his .best work, get a
bookseller to procure for you a copy of “ Peter Possum’s
Portfolio,” edited by Frank Fowler. The price now
will be about half-a-sovereign, as the Ixiok is long
out of print. You will also find some of Rowe’s work in
“Southern Lights and Shadows,” by Frank Fowler
“ T.McL.” ; Anyone who receives money for performances
is undoubtedly a professional “ Mars ”: On the con-
trary, we are thoroughly convinced from the style of the
thing that Gordon didn’t write it. You greatly under-
rate Mr. Mowbray Morris, who is a most excellent literary
man, despite the fact that he was once a Governor’s
functionary.—[Many replies held over.]
The people of Sydney should remember
that for the finest and cheapest photos, they
should pay a visit to Chubb & Fraeger, 'Empire
Galleries, 482 and 484 George-street, over Beales.
Ladies’ Silver Watches, 9fis. Daiims & Co., King-street
Arcade.
Macaulay says, Dr. Johnson frequently
offended more senses than one. The Doctor did
not use McDonald’s Perfect Nail Trimmer and
Cleaner. All chemists. Price one shilling.
The Australasian Census Conference has
decided that married women whose occupations
are not specified are to be classed as “domestic
servants.” Wouldn’t it be more appropriate to
class them as “hair-teasers?”
“ The greatest nourishing tonic appetizer
strengthened and curative on earth—Dr. Soule’s
American Hop Bitters. ”
Bona-Fide announcement. Highest cash price
given for all kinds of gent's left off clothing.
Dress-suits for sale or hire. Letters promptly
attended to by QUITTENTON BROS., Ill
Russell street. MELBOURNE. (New numhm,
16.1.)
Old-fashioned Jewellery modernised to perfection. Do- I
signs free Uaiims and Co , Kinv-street Arcade.
Parkes still dodges Henry George, and has
left for Adelaide.
“Kidney and urinary trouble is universal, and
the only safe and sure remedy is Dr. Soule’s
American Hop Bitters—rely on it.”
The authorities of the N.S.W. National
Club indignantly repudiate The Bulletin’s state-
ment that their funds are low. The Bulletin is
very glad to hear this.
His most worshipful the Chamarrajendra
Wadia Bahadur, Maharajah of Mycore has
arrived. The rest of the alphabet will be brought
along in an otherwise empty shoe-trunk by next
mail.
Music and Meat.—lt may interest our
readers to know, on the authority of the Musical
World (London) that the great songstress, Ade-
lina Patti, habitually uses Liebig Company’s
Extract of Meat as a vocal and nervine “re-
fresher. ”
While the typos are endeavouring to stop
the mailing of foreign-printed supplements, they
should go a step further, and obtain the stoppage
of matter printed from imported “stereos.” A
supplement, largely circulated by the country press
is printed from “stereos” at Redfern, the plates
themselves being imported.
The absorbing topic among all thinking
people is Henry George’s Single-tax. We all
agree that we have to pay too many taxes, suffer
from too many ills, and try too many ineffectual
remedies. What we want is one tax (on something
that does not affect us personally), and one reliable
medicine —Watson’s Antibilious Pills, a family
medicine-chest in themselves.
Messrs. Huddart, Parker and Co., desire
us to state that they hold weekly auction sales at
their stores foot of Margaret street, of choice Tas-
manian fruits. The Elingamite arrived on Mon-
day with a consignment of 12,000 cases, assorted.
As the season is far advanced we would recom-
mend those desirous of paying the charming
scenery of Tasmania a visit to do so as soon as
possible, as such an opportunity may never pre-
sent itself again. Thirty shillings return is an
absurdly low price.
The sum of £149,800 has already been
spent on St. Patrick’s R.C. Cathedral, Melbourne,
and there is no debt. x\n effort is being made to
raise £26,000 to finish the outside. This is stimu-
lated by the death of Monsignor Fitzpatrick, in
whom the Cathedral was incarnated. Archbishop
Carr gives £lOOO ; several laymen give £5OO apiece
(including a big brewer). The superior clergy
give £lOO each, and the inferior clergy £5O each.
They seem to be “well in.” The completed
design, by Ward ell, shows a tower 350 feet high,
and two others, each 200 feet.
Mister Tyson,
Good advice on
This here question we would ax,
Points so nice on,
Mr. Tyson,
You’re the one to give us fax.
Should we, Tyson,
Put a price on
Land and let the State go whacks?
Don’t you, Tyson,
Hate like pison
Mention of the Single-tax?
Old Captain Howard Smith, of Melbourne,
has died within four years of his 80th year. He
was one of the most sturdy and hard-headed of
Victorian pioneers, and leaves behind him a large
family of brainy sons, of whom Mr. Bruce Smith,
N.S.W. Minister of Public Works, and Mr.
Edmund Smith, general manager of the big
Howard Smith Shipping Co., are the best known.
Captain Smith began Ins great Australian steam-
boat lines with the s.s. You Yangs, commanded
by himself, when he was 50 years old. His fault,
as a business man, was mistaken economy, while
his forte was push and pluck.
The Maharajah of Something or Other—
nobody seems to know exactly what—has been
received “with military honours” at Government
House, Sydney. In other words, N.S.W. is
paying a lot of big, strapping white men to grovel
in the dust, in the name of Imperial Federation,
before a miserable little Indian whom Peter
Jackson could put into his waistcoat pocket and
lose among the matches. By the way, we the
other day saw a squad of the N.S.W. Permanent
Artillery march down street, and the only man
of the lot who looked as if he had been born small
and fed on gin in his infancy was the officer who
brought up the rear. Napoleon was little, but he
had what the M‘Elhone calls a “ bingie.” A
weak-voiced military officer with chest-pads and
no bingie could never successfully invade Russia.
In Henry Copeland’s attack on the
doctrines of Henry George the chief new point
made referred to George’s obvious attempt to
catch the votes of the N.S.W. free-selectors and
small property-holders by a partial abandonment
of his principles. This was not much dwelt upon,
and the bulk of his after arguments never stepped
on the fringe of the Single-taxer’s economic gar-
ment. Air. Copeland does not apparently see that
it is not the ownership of land but the opportunity
for its use that is necessary to human happiness
and well-being. With life use only the holder has
all the benefits and the community none of the
burdens of private property. When Mr. Cope-
land appraised the value of houses as one-half the
value of municipal properties he simply stultified
himself. In cities bare land, i.c., land without an
improvement of any kind, is quite as valuable as
much that is built on : witness the rents paid for
the use of land by the bill-posters. How can that
which is destructible be equal in true value to the
indestructible ? In the country, on the other hand, I
where land is plentiful and houses are few, the sell-
ing value is the other way round, for demand makes
the price independent of the intrinsic value. We
do not agree with Henry George on many points,
but we w r ant to see him answered in a logical Way.
Salomons, Q.C., who in dealing with Henry
George, took refuge in vague generalities and
slated his “irreverence” instead of dealing with
his arguments, says that “Henry George dis-
regards the ethic and economic bases of society.”
Ethics have no base, the morality of yesterday is
the immorality of to-day, and the morality of to-
day will be, in many cases, the criminality of to-
morrow. So also with economics ;as social condi-
tions change, as civilisation ever produces fresh
complications, so economic knowledge expands
and economic rules with it.
It is said that there are hundreds of women
in East London whose earnings, while in work, do
not exceed a penny an hour.


OUNTRY STOREKEEPERS, ETC.,
A. M. MARKS & CO.,
—lmporters op—
Furniture, Pianofortes, Glass, Earthenware, \
CHINA, FANCY GOODS, ELECTRO PLATE,
hoars a tobacconists sundries
SOLE AGENTS FOR
Dawn Cigars and Salonica Turkish Cigarettes.
Special Novelties in all Lines for Christmas Trade.
Prices on Application to —
A.. uiflT. Marks &■ Co.,
Vickery's Buildings, 74a Pitt Streeet, Sydney,
AND AT LONDON.
Telephone, No. 013.
Should write or call upon
Ladies’ Silver Watches, 35s. Daiims & Co., King-street
Arcade.
Amusements.
JgONDI AQUARIUM.
The Most Popular
PICNIC and PLEASURE GROUNDS of AUSTRALIA.
The Famous Switchback Railway, conveying
Passengers from Cliff to Cliff daily.
Splendid Asphalt Open-Air Skating-Rink Free to Visitors.
Open Daily from 10 a m to 10 p.m.
Admission, 15.,; Children, (id. Trams to Gate —Fare, 4d
[A CARD.]
THEATRE.
" Lessee and Manager ... Mr. Tom Sawkins.
Farewell Engagement of
GEO. O . 3VT. X X* 2ST,
In a Choice licj ertoire of Classic Plays.
POPULAR PRICES.
H E CYCLORAMA!
THE MOST MARVELLOUS
ART DEVELOPMENT OF THE AGE.!
Flere one of the world’s greatest military struggles is
brought in every detail before the spectator, surrounded
by all the beauties of one of the fairest American land-
scapes.;
100 Square Miles within One building !
Open every Day-10 to 10. IW‘ BAND DAILY.
GUNTHER’S BRISBANE CAFE,
George Street (below Hunter-st.), Sydney.
TP RED'. GUNTHER, late of the Wliratshoaf Hotel,
1 Castlereagh-st., is desirous of inform ng his patrons
and the public generally that h ■ has now become pro-
prietor of the BRISBANE CAFE, GEORGE STREET.
These premises are commodious, and every convenience is
obtainable. None hut liquors of the first quality retailed
Two of Alcock’s Prize Billiard Tables provided. Files of
sporting and dramatic paper- kept. Special ■ ccommoda-
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
Amusements.
iy EB MAJESTY’S THEATRE.
Lessee and Manager ... Mr. Geo. Rignold.
Doors open at 7 ; commencing 7.40. Carriages at 10.45.
ENORMOUS SUCCESS ! ENORMOUS SUCCESS!
of the New and Original Drama,
My Jack. l&Sly Jack.
Box Office at Theatre from 10 to 5. Prices as usual.
J. P. Macdonald, Acting-Manager.
ORITERION THEATRE
Sole Proprietor ... Mr. John Solomon.
Under the Management of Messrs. Brough and Bouoicault.
General Manager . .. Mr. Mayne.
Doors Open, 7. Overture, 8. Carriages, 10.25.
LAST TWO PERFORMANCES
of the
KKOUGH-KUItICAI LT COMEDY tOMI’ASf
in the
Late T. IV. Robertson’s World-famed Comedy,
OURS. OXJFtS.
(By arrangement with Mr. GEORGE RIGNOLD.)
Admission ... £2 2s. to Is.
Box Plan at Nicholson’s. Carriages at 10.25 p.m.
Joe Davis, Business Manager.
rpHEATRE ROYAL
Under the Management of Messrs. Williamson,
Garner and Musgrove.
Lessee, Mr. S. Lazar. Treasurer, Mr. Geo. L. Goodman.
LAST NIGHTS ! LAST NIGHTS !
of the
NEW LONDON DRAMATIC COMPANY
in
”37 231 353 OCTOROON.
Admission —55.; 3s. and Is.
• •
Slsa'j
HIGHLY HU 1 RITJVh
MAY tit UUIAINtU IN I.ABLLLfcU HNS UH PACKETS THROUGHOUT THE COLONY
BEDE.
SYDNEY GOLD CUP.
30,000 ill 10.
Hun 71 h Al* 111 Fj.
BIRTHDAY CUP.
.-,0,000 ill
Kim 2t( h
10.
M \ V.
The
Only !-'air Way
of
Drawing'.
Address; “ADAM BEDE,” «are of H. N. Abbott,
(Owner of United Service Hotel, Auckland Theatre Royal, Abbott's Opera House, Auckland, H.Z.
(Our Only Sydney Address)-POST OFFICE CHAMBERS, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Ask for the
Unequalled
“DAWN” 3d. Cl GAB,
aia^
Of all
Tobacconists,
Store
AND
Hotel
KEEPERS.
Wholesale Agents: A. M. MARKS & Co.. 74a rITT STREET,
SYDNEY.
RAwson
DAWSON'S
Sole Agents for Australasia
VAUGHAN, EOGEES & CO.,
(Opposite 0.P.0.)
108 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
p
E
R
F
E
C
T
X
o
N
WHISKY
SUB-AGENTS WANTED
IN THE
PRINCIPAL CENTRES
THROUGHOUT AUSTRALASIA.
H I N K 0 E IT.
The sudden transition from heat to cold may
cause but slight inconvenience at the time, but
the demon of Rheumatism follows in the track,
and where would the sufferers be if deprived of
St. Jacobs oil ? Their own volunteered testimony
to its worth is the best answer, and that comes
from every country under the sun.
IN SPITE OF EVERY PRECAUTION
People get wet clothing and wet feet, and many of
them neglect the simplest precautions for their
own comfort and safety, and suddenly discover
that they have become possessed of an entirely
new pain, which gets worse and worse, until it is
grievous to bear, and they don’t know what it is
until some friend or neighbour, who has paid for
his experience, says :—“ Oh, that’s nothing ; it’s
only rheumatism, and everybody’s got rheumatism
this weather. Use St. Jacobs oil, and you’ll soon
get relief.”
Eor it is a fact that
ST. JACOB OIL CURES
Rheumatism, Backache, Headache, Neuralgia,
and Toothache, Sprains, Bruises, &c.
Every constituent of the formula of ST.
JACOBS OIL exerts specific action in the cure of
pain; as a combination its specific virtues are
simply marvellous. Not an element of it would
be disapproved by any intelligent physician ; no
one truthfully can disqualify its success, nor deny
the truth of every endorsement. It penetrates
gently, but quickly; it soothes perfectly; it heals
surely ; it cures promptly, permanently, and with-
out reaction. Universal public sentiment has Avon
for it the highest prize medals, which nothing
could call forth but the most extraordinary merit.
AWARDED TO ST. JACOBS OIL EOR
THE BEST PAIN CURE.
New Zealand International Exhibition, 1882-
Gold Medal.
Calcutta International Exhibition, 1883-1884 -
Gold Medal.
Cincinnati! Industrial Exposition, 1884—Silver
Medal.
California State Fair, 1884—Silver Medal.
Louisville Southern Exposition, 1884 Gold
Medal.
One of the features of the Paris Exhibition is
the handsome prism-shaped stand of Waterbury
Watches containing several thousands of these
cheap but astonishingly accurate timekeepers.
They are all in full going order, and there is
scarcely half a minute’s difference in the time to
be seen amongst them. It takes two men several
hours every morning to wind them up. The stand,
which is some twenty feet in height, is the subject
of much curiosity and admiration. By the way,
there is quite a joke in our office over the fact that
some of the successful competitors in our sports
a fortnight ago, to whom the silver watches fell,
have petitioned to have them changed for Water -
bury’s. Their request is a very sensible one. I
have three or four gold and silver watches at
home, one of them being a presentation watch
from H.R.H. the Duke of Cambridge, whom I
once gallantly rescued at the peril of my life in a
street souffle from a ferocious and murderous re-
porter. But I leave these watches at home, arid
have carried a Waterbury for years.— Sporting
Truth.
EVERY MAIL BRINGS THEM.
Mr. Robert Freer, Oberon, N.S.W., is good
enough to write under date of Feb. 2nd, ’9O, as
follows : “ I have much pleasure in adding my
testimony in favor of the WATERBURY
WATCH Having carried one for three years, !
have no hesitation in recommending them to ariy
one who is in need of a good strong watch and a
reliable timekeeper. ”
The WATERBURY WATCH may be obtained
from any respectable storekeeper throughout the
colony. Price, Series E. 13s. (id ; Series J. or L.
20s.
Waterbury Watch Co.’s Kepair Depot,
56 MARGARET STREET, SYDNEY.
CASHMERE
Bouquet
fylui so&&
C-
All the essentials for wide popularity are fully
met in Colgate’s CASHMERE BOUQUET
Toilet Soap and perfumes, which obtained the
HI iglaeat iLwarda
—AT—
London, 1887; Newcastle, 1887; Ostend, 1888,
together with
GOLD MEDAL, PARIS, 1889.
Unexcelled in Quality and Perfume
A Word to Texas Jack.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
Texas Jack, you are amusin’. By Lord Harry
how I laughed
When I seen ycr rig and saddle with its bulwarks
fore-and-aft;
Holy smoke! In such a saddlebow the dickens
can yer fall?
Why, I seen a gal ride bareback with no bridle on
at all!
(Josh ! so-help-me! strike-me-bahny ! if a bit o’
scenery
Like ter you in all yer rig-out on the earth I ever
see ! |
How I’d like ter see a bushman use yer fixins,
Texas .lack,
On the remnant of a saddle he can ride to hell an*
back.
Why, 1 heel’d a mother screamin’when her kid
went tossiu’ by
Hidin’ bareback on a buoker that had murder in
his eye.
What? yer come to learn the natives how to
squat on horse’s back !
Learn the cornstalk rid in’Blazes L-watyer giv’-
ims, Texas Jack?
Learn the cornstalk - what the flamin’, jumptup !
ware’s my country gone ?
Why, the cornstalk’s mother often rides the day
afore he’s born !
You may talk about your ridin’ in the city, bold
an’ tree,
Talk o’ ridin’ in the city, Texas Jack, but ware’d
yer be
When the stock horse snorts an’ bunches all ’is
quarters in a hump,
And the saddle climbs a sapling an’ the horse-
shoes split a stump?
No, before yer teach the native you must ride
without a fall
Up a gum or down a gully nigh as steep as any
wall —
You must swim the roarin’ Darlin’ when the flood
is at its height
Bearin’ down the stock an’ stations to the great
Australian Bight.
You can’t count the bulls an’ bisons that yer
copped with your lassoo—
But a stout old myall bullock p’raps ’ud learn yer
somethin’ new ;
Yer’d better make yer will an’ leave yer papers
neat an’ trim
Before yer make arrangements for the lassooin’ of
k irn ;
Ere you’n’ yer horse is catsmeat, fittin’ fate for
sich galoots,
And yer saddle’s turned to laces like we put in
blucher boots.
And yer say yer death on Injins ! we got some-
i hin’ in yer line —
If yer think your fitiu’s ekal to the likes of Tommy
' By an,
Take yer karkass up to Queensland ware the ally-
gitors chew
And the carpet-snake is handy with his tail for a
lassoo :
ivide across the hazy regins ware the lonely emus
wail
An’ye’ll find the black’ll track while yer lookin’
for his trail;
He can track’ ye without stoppin’ for a thousand
miles or more—
Kurn agen and he will show yer ware yer spit the
year before.
But yer’d best be mighty careful, you’ll be sorry
you kern here
When yer skewered to the fakements ov yer
saddle with a spear -
When the boomerang is sailin’ in the air may
heaven help yer !
It will cut yer head olf guild an’ conic back agen
and skelp yer.
P.S.—As poet and as Yankee I will greet you,
Texas Jack,
I'Vr it isn’t no ill-feelin’that is gettin’ up my back,
But 1 won’t see this land crowded by each Yank
and British cuss
Who takes it in his head to come a-ci v.ilisin’ us.
So if you feel like shootin’ now, don’t let yer pistol
cough—
(G.ir Government is very free at chokin' fellers
off) ;
And though on your great continent there’s misery
in the towns
An’ not a few untitled lords and kings without
their crowns,
I will admit your countrymen is busted big, an
free,
An’ great on ekal rites of men and great on
liberty;
1 will admit yer fathers punched the gory tyrant’s
head,
But then we’re got our heroes, too, the diggers:
that is dead — " i
The plucky men of Ballarat who toed the scratch
right well . i
And broke the nose of Tyranny and made his
peepers swell
For yankin’ Lib.’s gold tresses in the roarin’ days
gone by,
An’ doublin’ up his dirty fist to black her bonny
eye ;
Bo when it comes to ridin’ mokes, or hoistin’out
the Chow,
Or stickin’ up for labour’s rights, we don’t want
sbowin’ how.
They come to learn ns cricket in the days of long
ago,
An’ Hanlan come from Canada to learn us how to
row,
An’ Tt doctors ” come from ’Frisco to learn us how
to skite,
An’ “ pugs ” from all the lands on earth to learn
us how to fight,
An’ when they go, as like or not, we find we’re
taken in
They’ve left behind no lamin’ and carried off our
tin
JOE SWALLOW.
FREETRADE OR PROTECTION.
Some vote Protection, some Freetrade,
As best for this young country’s weal.
But ask the youth or blushing maid,
And each will answer— Pemell’s Meal !
As best, because it has been tried,
There’s nothing half so good beside.
His Golden Meal is what I mean,
’Tis good and pure and cheap, I wean.
A Philadelphian doctor named Stephens
claims to have located the mind in the corpus
callosum —a little spongy body situated at the base,
of the brain, which has defied all endeavours to
ascertain its uses in the human anatomy. The,
corpus callosum , according to Doctor Stephens,
“ is the seat of the imperishable mind, and is the
great reservoir and storehouse of electricity, which
is abstracted from the blood in the arteries, and
conveyed through the nerves up the spinal cord to
the corpus callosum.” That accounts for the
thirstiness of our brainiest men; The greater the
brain-power, the bigger the sponge; the larger the
sponge, the greater the soakage.
Some daring burglars last week climbed
40ft. to effect an entrance to the of
Messrs. M‘LeanBros. and Rigg, Sydney. Having
got in they shifted a safe, cold-chiselled the rivets
in the back, turned down the sheet-iron as if it
were the top of a salmon-tin, and got £30 for their
trouble. The tradesman-like burglar is a man of
many fine but perverted qualities. He is the
keenest of sportsmen, for he takes his life and
liberty in his hand every time. He usually has
no desire to kill anybody, but all the same he is
ever tempted to do so, inasmuch as he takes the
risk of being shot down on sight. And what a
tradesman the expert burglar is, as witnessed by
Ids exploits in the safe-opening line ! _ A com-
plete kit of burglar’s tools was on view at a
Sydney Government department lately. It com-
prised in all about a hundred articles - beautifully-
balanced “jemmies,” as fine and varied an assort-
ment of files as you could buy for money in the
world, and an excellent collection of skeleton-
keys, and the implements were as clean and in as
good order as the contents of any surgeon’s opera-
ting-case. The game is a lascinating one. Once a
burglar always a burglar.


Business Announcements.
PRIDDY & CO.,
Hats made to Order-
a
MANUFACTURE
HATS
Mercery.
: il> !l
Morley’s Hosiery.
438 George Street, Sydney.
Branch —678 George Street, Brickfield Hill.
PROBLEM OF TO-DAY -WHERE CAN WE GET GOOD
BOOTS ?—SOLVED AT LAST.
DE3 . S'” R E KT C /E3I
(The French of years ago)
Can supply Residents here with Roots better made than
ever. Boots that must wear well and give satisfacti >n.
Send your orders than to 82 Oxford Street, and ha sure
to enclose Sizes and Remittance, when your parcel w.ll be
sent at once by Post, Rail, or Steamer.
Notice Prices for Boots that look well, wear well
and fit well.
Children’s Elastic-sides, 2/-, 2/11, 3/0, 4/-, 4/6, etc t Best
Men’s & Youths’ ditto, 6/0, 6/-, 6/6, 7/0, 8/6, etc. / Boots
Men’s & Boys’ Bluchers, 2/11, 4/-, 5/-, 6/-, best ever made.
A Line of Stylish Laced Boots for Best Wear
(Boys’, Youths’ and Men’s Sizes).
ENGLISH BOOTS for LADIES, CHILDREN, etc.,
Sent as ordered. Lowest Price.
Satisfaction given or Money Returned.
Note the Address:
ECLIPSE BOOT CO.,
82 Oxford Street, SVB»\EV.
E. French, Manager.
j* ludqwicTTlToTsi
Manufacturers and Importers of
Superior Oak-Tauned Leather Belting’,
And every description of
Leather goods for Machine and Engineering Purposes'
Hydraulic
4
m
Tangye Pump
Leathers.
All goods bearing the above Trade Mark are warranted to
give satisfaction, or may be returned at our expense.
Office and Factory: 163 Clarence-St., Sydney,
Between King and Market Streets.
TO ADVERTISERS.
AVe undertake the advertising of large business
houses—filing every paper advertised in, checking
appearances, and watching the interests of our
clients. AVe can save you nieney, time and
iinxiely. Write for our pamphlet “How to
Advertise, and Why.” F. T. WIMBLE & CO.,
Newspaper Advertising Bureau, Basement A.J.S.
Bank, 309,371 & 373 George-st., Sydney. Estimates
given for any number of papers by return mail.
-AUSTRALIAN-
Roller Flour and Grain Stored,
GRANVILLE, N.S.W.
Sydney Office: - 173 CLARENCE STREET
(near King Street).
Brunton’s Patent Roller Flour
—AWARDED —
The Highest Order of Merit at every Competition,
AND
“Special Recommendation” of the Jurors of the
Melbourne International Centennial Exhibition,
1888-S9.
d
1 EUCALYPTL 0 1 LSa.
m
n i
>•
Victory Ointment*;)
THE TREE OF LIFE.
rrtfSSSSS^ffi;
The only pure Eucalypte in (lie World
AW \RDED Gold Medal Adelaide Jubilee
Exhibition. First Prize Great Centennial
Exhibition, Sydney. The only known CURE for
Asthma, Bronchitis, Consumption, Pleurisy,
Colds, Coughs, and all affections of the Chest and
Lungs; also, for Gout, Rheumatism, Sciatica,
etc. Our VICTORY OINTMENT stands with-
out a rival for Bad Legs, Bad Breasts, Cancers,
Tumours, and skin diseases of all kffrds. Also,
manufacturers of the Eucalypte Pills, Eucalypte
Hair Restorer, Eucalypte Soap, and our world-
famed Eucalypte Honey is the best preparation
before the public for young Children and aged
people. Also, makers of the Eucalypte Lozenges
for the Voice. Manufactory— Cootamundra.
Sydney Wholesale Depot —251 Elizabeth Street
Posted to any part of the Colonies, Sold Every-
where. Beware of Imitations.
Use Batiio’s Baking Powder.
Land at Perth, W.A., the best investment.
Plans from Intercolonial Investment Co., Ltd.,
96 Bathurst-ttreet, Sydney.
Yery little sympathy lias been expressed
for the Townsville man, who so carefully stowed
himself away on the “Quetta” that he has never
been heard of since.—
While safely o’er the ocean riding
That man rejoiced to be in hiding :
But ere another yard was cross'd
The hidden man exclaimed, “ I'm lost ! ”
And, as the waters closed around him,
He cursed to think they never found him.
The Choicest Jewellery. Daiims&Co., King-st. Arcade
It is satisfactory to note that the Victorian
militia are changing their red uniforms, burlesques
of the English soldier, the par-boiled lobster, to
the sensible plain butternut colour, devoid of
trappings. Col. Tom Price was the reformer who
put the Victorian Cavalry into the butternut and
sombrero, instead of the mock hussar uniform,
with a busby and shaving-brush stuck on the side,
and a bit of red flannel hanging out —the Prince
of Wales Victorian Volunteer Light Horse—
P.W.V.V.L.H.—gone for ever to the Asin-
ine Limbo. The Victorian Cavalry ai - e the
very image, in uniform, of the Confederate
Cavalry, during the Civil War, and the late
American consul, Col. Morgan, who fought in
those ranks, was much taken with them —“ By
gosh, here's the old stuff of Stuart, Forrest, and
Mosby over again, and where’s Stonewall
Jackson ?” l
Melbourne Corporation squelches the fruit-
hawkers. Why don’t the Trades Hall bear a
hand for the persecuted ?
Ambidextrous men are the exception. The
nails of the right hand can be trimmed as easily
as the left, by the use of McDonald’s Nail Trimmer.
All chemists. Price one shilling.
Familiarity breeds contempt. When
small-pox broke out in Sydney, a few years ago,
the panic-stricken authorities dragged out of
warm beds p itients suffering from this most violent
of fevers and rushed them down the harbour in
open barges towed at the end of 400-feet lines.
When the other day the steamer Sikh arrived
with small-pox on board, the authorities tethered
the vessel up within 800 yards of a Manly habita-
tion ; then landed the passengers, disinfected the
vessel and sent her up to town.
Us 3 Batho’s Baking Powder.
Among the Melbourne larrikins, the O.K.
thing used to be to wear a red stuke, or neck-
handkerchief, but the fashion changed to white,
then to blue, and now it is yellow. Formerly a
velvet band round a dirty little white hat was in-
dispensable—
Velvet round my hat, knuckleduster up my sleeve,
Melbourne’s the place for to live in, I believe.
But the black, broad-brimmer is now the thing for
the plug-ugly, hoodlum, and tough. These per-
sonages have a lot of unwritten music, such as
the song of the “ Wild Rover, - ’ which extends to
39 verses.
Hotel, Sydney.
■ -
til ■ ’ ,
■ . . 1 ' ■'^*-,^.*l ll\
■ .■ ■-■• , V 4;
; -■ : 1; jTfIW
f[(i ■■■•■
4«,«ii i i
fiijfljraf
& v
■
-i'l t
• r* - I
H
?i
SKi'i'.i’.'
H™'
Adjoining the Sydney Exchange.
Mining, Financial and General Mercantile Intelligence
Posted several times DAILY in the Building’.
TELEGRAPH, POST and MONEY ORDER OFFICES on the PREMISES.
This Hotel has been thoroughly renovated and re-furnished, and is now unrivalled for comfort
and attention.
Aarons’ Exchange Hotel Co. (Limited), Proprietors.
TXT
JljL JKIh
IP
XJ M.”
mHIS brand of Razor is something superior to anything that has ever been offered to the public.
S Pure hollow ground, beautiful silver steel, and rings like a bell; set ready for use and we
guarantee each Razor for two years. It never requires grinding, and to gentlemen who shave them-
selves they cannot possibly do better than to try this particular brand.
Price
/Single Razor, in strong leather case, 10/(5; Pair, in beautiful morocco leather case, 21/-
\ Single Razor, ivory handle, 15/-; Pair Razors, ivory handles, in beautiful case, 30/-
Registered and sent Post Free to any part of the Australian colonies.
SOLE AGENTS
CRA-IGr &: Potosl Hairdressing Saloon
680 & 682 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
JONES’ SEWING MACHINES,
FOR THE BOOT AND TAILORING TRADES.
The Best Manufacturing Machines in Existence*
Now Perfected, the New No. 3 and No. 4 Machines on an Entirely new System
STOCK JUST LAUDIUG.
F arlelg-li, KTettlieim, & 00.
TANNERS AND LEATHER MERCHANTS,
xe
x YORH: X STREET, x S-STJOUXrE'Sr.
Solo Agents for the above for New South Wales and Queensland.
■( x )
ALSO Importers of Requisites for the BOOT MANUFACTURING TRADE in all Details, inckulinsr MACnnvrnv
IMPORTED LEATHERS, Ac.; and of the following Smi.a Links: Peerless Gloss. Sal in Polish vm.'
Klaeklng Tanners’ Tools and Materials. {*■/ Indents Executed on Favouralrle Terms * ‘
Medical.
DR. RICHARDS.
ROOM 5
lti
CONSU
)>duhnmi
IGHARPS
a
mini
in
This eminent Specialist, Founder, and Clucl
Surgeon of the long-established and favourably-
known Dispensary that now bears his name, re-
ceived his medical education in the leading colleges
and hospitals of Europe. He has devoted a life-
time to the study of
PRIVATE, NERVOUS, AND SKIN
DISEASES.
He has by profound research thoroughly investi-
gated their origin, traced their deadly sources and
insidious dissemination, and ascertained the surest
and safest methods by which they may bo eradi-
cated, with these widely recognised qualification?
combined with unswerving faithfulness to hi)
patients, he has during his practice, extending
over FORTY YEARS, attained a well-deserved
pre-eminence in their treatment. .JI is practice
embraces diseases which probably cause more un-
happiness than any other class of troubles that
afflict mankind.
YOUNO MEN
who suffer from the results of early follies, trans-
gressions or excesses of more nature age, bladder
difficulties, a whitish or dark ropy sediment in
the water, accompanied by slight burning or
smarting sensation, Headaches, Drowsiness during
ihe day, circles round the eyes, Giddiness,
irregularity of the bowels, specks before the eyes,
bashfulness, discontentedness, weakness or pains
in the back, Liver or kidney complaints, dreams,
buzzing noises in the ears and head, pimples, a
fear that something dreadful is about to happen,
weak stomach, yellow or blood-shot eyes, impure
blood, hasty, uncontrollable temper, hack ng
cough, who cannot marry, nervousness in society,
wakefulness, palpitation of the heart, general
weakness, and other symptoms which lead to in-
sanity and death, should consult him, for he ha?
mastered these difficulties. On receipt of fid. in
stamps he will send secure from observation in a
plain wrapper, pos'ago
FREE, A LARGE CLOTH-BOUND
BOOR.
Showing plainly how all diseases of the private or
nervous system may be cured thoroughly and per-
manently without unneco sary expence. This
book will prove a valuable companion, and even
though jou be perfectly well its general inform-
lion and prescription may assist you in restoring
some poor friend to health oven after his case has
been pionounced incurable by his medical at-
tendant.
ONE POUND IS SUFFICIENT TO
SEND
for Remedies necessary for the cure of NER-
VOUS DEBILITY. Should you require medical
treatment, as procrastination is sometimes dan-
gerous, it would be advisable for you to sit down
quietly in your chamber and write to the doctor,
detailing every experienced symptom. Ho will
on receipt of such a letter, write you, promptly
and courteously', a candid and straightforward
oponion of your case. If you do not think you
understand the case, send for his famous radical
work, the price of which is but sixpence ; enclosed
in the volume will be found a list of carefully-pre-
pared questions, which will, in all probability,
assist you materially in describing your ailment.
Dr. Richards uses nothing but the pui’ost remedies,
and never prescribes mercury under any' circum-
stances. The moment letters arc carefully per-
used and answered they are destroyed by fire,
and patients may rest assured that their cases
will remain a secret between the doctor and
t hemsclves. Dr. Richards has successfully treated
nearly 25,000 cases since coming to Australia, and
has permission from at least 10,000 persons to
show their written evidence of his success. All
communications should be addressed
Dr. RICHARDS,
7 Spring Street
(Off Pitt Street North)
SYDNEY.
Be sure to mention this paper when writing
CONST!LT AT lON F RE B.
“You stay dare, ain’d up. I vas of hold-
in’ you get tired.”
Mr. Spritzer (enthusiastically): “Ach!
Dot Wagner musich was sound human
almost somedimes.”—Ex.


The next thing we shall hear of will be
the sudden sinking of the rotten old N.S.W.
training-ship Vernon, with two or three hundred
boys on board, one of these fine nights.
Apropos of a par. in a late Bulletin, a
correspondent writes
All the time of the trial of the Eureka Stockaders, Peter
Lalor lay hidden in a cellar of the old Age office, at Mel-
bourne. Francis Oook, one of the then proprietors, and
at least two of the “ comps.” knew of the “ rebel’s ” hiding-
place. Dr. Hewitt was also aware of it, as lie was
attending Lalor the stump of whose limb, owing to the
hurry in which the amputation had been performed, gave
him considerable trouble for months after the bloody
Sunday of the riot. The “ comps.” took it in turns to
bring food to the hunted loader, on whose head a reward
of £250 was set by the Government of the.day. '
The question now is—would Boss Symo, Francis
Cook’s successor, afford cellar-room for an Austra-
lian National rebel today? fah ! wed much
rather trust Editor Eitchett cr Alfred Bennett.
When “ Jimmy ” Minims, erstwhile
financier and founder of the gone-bung Premier
Permanent Building Society, kept a stationer’s
shop and the post-office iu Bruns wick-street,
Fitzroy, he once sold a twopenny-stamp to the
present writer. With the loftiness of manner
which characterised the little great man even in
those days of comparative humbleness, Jimmy
remarked, as lie passed Her Most Gracious’ head
across the counter ; “To think I could sign a
cheque for half-a-million while I am serving this!”
The words were uttered more to himself than to
his customer, and formed a curious index to the
ideas Which were even then fermenting in the
little man’s abnormally-balanced brain. It is just
possible that selling “ twopenny” stamps at three-
pence in the pound commission would, in the long
run, have proved more profitable to him than
dealing in huge and fictitious amounts.
READ IT ALL.
IT MAY SAVE YOUR LIFE.
Dr. Soule’s American Hop Bitters
ARE
THE PUREST AND BEST
Medicine ever Made. They are compounded from
Hops, Buchu, Mandrake and Dandelion.
“The Oldest, Best, most Renowned,
‘ and Valuable Medicines in the
‘ World, and iu addition contain all
‘ the best and most effective _ cura-
-4 tive properties of all other bitters,
‘ being the greatest Liver Rsgu*
4 iator, BLOOD PL r K.FiER and
‘ life and health restoring agent on
‘ earth.”
They Dire Mow Life sni Vigour to the A^ei
and Infirm.
“To Clergymen, Lawyers, Literary
‘ Men, Labourers, Ladies, and all
‘ those whoso sedentary employ-
‘ ments cause irregularities of the
‘ Blood, Stomach, Bowels, or
‘ Kidneys. or who require an
4 Appetizer. Tonic, and mild Stimu-
‘ lant, these Bitters arc invaluable,
‘ being highly curative, tonic, and
‘ stimulating without intoxicating.”
“No matter what your feelings or
4 symptoms are, or what the disease
4 or ailment is, use Hop Bitters.
4 Don’t wa t until you are sick, but
‘ if you only feel bad or miserable,
‘ use the Bitters at once. It may
‘ save your life. Hundreds have
* been saved by so doing, at a
‘ trifling cost. ”
Ask /our Druggist or Physician.
44 Do not suffer yourself or let your
4 friends suffer, but use and urge
‘ them to use Dr. Soule’s American
‘ Hop Bitters.”
“Remember, Dr. Soule’s American
4 Hop Bitters is no vile, drugged
4 drunken nostrum, but tl e purest
4 and best Medicine ever ma ’e, and
4 no person or family shpuld be with*
4 out it.”
HOP BITTERS MANUFACTURING COJ
Melbourne, Australia, Rochester, N.Y., U.S.
A., Toronto, London, Antwery, Paris.
Business Announcements.
NOTWITHSTANDING
What other Produce Dealers may say, our
Prime Oaten Chaff
At 4s. 6d. per Cwt. (Bags in),
is TUB
IT* IBIEST value
Ever Offered.
City Produce Company,
STEAI! CHAFF-CUTTERS.
- HAY STREET, HAYMARKET.
m
m
avg
"•They fit perfectly, and a r«
far nut prior tv all the other
'Cornet's I have tried.'’
1 (Siyned) Marie Rose.
ths Y*K
PATENT
Diagonal S-eam Corset
Will not Split in the Seams
noi' Tear in the Fabric.
Exquisite Model, Perfect
Comfort, Guaranteed Wear.
Beware of worthies* imita-
tions. Every genuine Y& N
Corset stamped “YAN Patent
Diagonal Seetm Corset, No. 116,” in oval.
THREE GOLD MEDALS!
{ST* Sold by. aU Draphrs ami Ladiks’ Outfmtbm.
ATOOMBA FAMILY HOTEL.
First-class Accommodation for Toimsts and Families •
Wives and Letters to be addressed “ Proprietor.”
Arrangements can be made to provide transit for persons
wishing to view the celebrated Jeislsa laves and
other places of interest.
JOSEPH NIMMO
Business Announcements,
vmmm
'/A
sas**:;
I:.-
A
X •,
m
SUCCESSOR TO
fl. B. MODINI, Gumnakor, informs his Customer s
■ and tine Public in general that he inis the largest
assortment of Firearms in the colony. Qualities and prices
to defy competition. , Guns, by the following celebrated
gunmakers: — J. Purdey & Sons, Cii. JtdswELL, John liiaiv
and Co., Jo'seth Lano & Sons, Cii. Osborne & Co., Thomas
Hi.ant) & Son. A large assortment of various other makers
always on hand, viz., W. W. Greener, Scott, Webley,
Holers & Sons, Pi ley and Casiimoiib. All goods will be
faithfully guaranteed at 602 Goorge-street, Sydney.
Price list on application.
J]DWIN G GOEPTZ,
Stock and Sliare Broker,
.a.
BRISBANE,
Member of the Brisbane Stock Exchange.
Shipping.
TTNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF NEW
U ZEALAND, Limited.
SAN FRANCISCO ROYAL MAIL SERVICE.
OVERLAND ROUTE TO ENGLAND VIA SAN
FRANCISCO AND NEW YORK,
Calling at
AUCKLAND and HONOLULU,
Avoiding alike the heat of the Red Sea and the cold
of Cape Horn.
Under Contract with the Postmasters-General of New
South Wales and New Zealand, the steamers of this line
arc appointed to leave Sydney and Auckland for Honolulu
and San Francisco every 4th Wednesday, sailing as under: —
Each steamer carries a duly qualified surgeon.
These steamers are fitted with Electric Light and with a
Refrigerating Chamber for ship provisions, insuring a
plentiful supply cf ice throughout the voyage.
Passengers arc booked to San Francisco or through to
European destinations and have at San Francisco choice of
the unrivalled Atlantic Steamship Lines of the Cunard,
Inman, White Star, and other companies.
All first-class passengers are allowed 8501 b. of baggage
to San Francisco and 2501 b. “Overland ” free of charge.
THROUGH PARE TO LIVERPOOL.
FIRST-CLASS £63 to £66.
Time-cards, railway maps, and gu de books, showing all
routes to any point in the United States, may bo had on
application
For rates of passage and freight and all other informa-
tion apply at the Company’s Offices, 15 Bridge-street.
FREDK. W. JACKSON, Manager,
Business Announcements.
IF a ®caLe:Br , Ei/t;eca. Squatters
—AND—
Farmers’ Co-Operative Association of Australasia, Limited,
WOOL and PRODUCE BROKERS, STOCK and STATION AGENTS.
Advances Made and Deposits Received at Current Rates. Correspondence Invited.
ALLAN A. MARSHALL & GO.
Engineers, Coppersmiths, Brass and Bell Founders,
Finishers, Plumbers, Ship & General Smiths,
Gasfi.tters, Art & Mkdi «vai Metal Wor. kb r
ROLLER'SKATES (any make) with BRASS or WOODEN WHEELS.
Verity’s Gas Fires, Heaters and Ventilators at greatly Reduced Prices—ll,ooo Fires already in use
Importers and Manufacturers of Diving Gear, Yacht and Boat Work of every description in
Iron or Brass, Ships’ Single and Double Action Valve Closets, Fire Hydrants, Hose and all appliances
Bon Accord Works, 9 Macquarie Place, Sydney.
Anglo Scandinavian
Gold Medal
Condensed
Milk.
d
The
cst
COMMERCIAL TRAVELLERS, TOURISTS, &c.
-o-
ROYAL HOTEL, LITHGO W,
The leading resort for
Commercial Travellers, and Tourists.
The Largest Sample Rooms on the Western Line. Horses and Buggies for Hire.
Nothing hut the Best Brands of spirits sold over the bar.
Hugh Wallace, Proprietor. Late of Wallerawang.
LiCHTNER & GO.
SYDNEY:
318 GEORGE STREET
BRISBANE
9 ELIZABETH STREET
PHOTOGRAPHIC
-STOCK-
IMPORTERS.
£
:-. h
S*
na
. -~
■v* ;
m SEND FOR OUR NEW ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE is*
— Ob' —
CAMERAS, LENSES, CHEMICALS; MAGIC LANTERNS,
And all Articles appertaining to PHOTOGRAPHY.
CHEAP AMATEUR OUTFITS.
Shipping.
JJUDDART, PARKER and CO.’s LINE.
STEAM TO MELBOURNE AND
TASMANIA.
FROM HUDDART, PARKER’S WHARF:
FOR MELBOURNE WHARF DIRECT—
BURRUMBELT ! 4000 tons i Wednesday, April 2, 10 p.m.
FOR LAUNCESTON, VIA MELBOURNE—
transhipping to S.S. NEWCASTLE.
BUmtUifliKiiT | 4000 tons | Wednesday, April 2, 10 p.m.
"These magnificent Steamships have already established
a reputation for their accommodation, and their large size
insures passengers a maximum of comfort. The SALOON
CABINS are light and airy and very roomy. POKE-
CABIN is on main deck, lefty and well ventilated. Com-
plete sanitation and lavatorhs. ELECTRIC LIGHTING
throughout the ships. Inspection invited on days of
sailing'.
RETURN TICKETS AVAILABLE FOR SIX MONTHS.
For rates of Freight and Passage-money apply
HUDDART, PARKER & CO., Limited.
Offices and Wharf—Foot of Margaret-street.
■H*!! DU ART, PARKER & CO.’S LINE.
STEAM TO MELBOURNE and TASMANIA.
From Huddart, Parker’s Wharf.
For Time and Date of Sailing, see daily papers.
The magnificent steamships, BURRUMBEET and
ELINGAMITE, have established an unrivalled reputation
for their speed and accommodation, anti their large size
ensures passengers a maximum of comfort. The saloon
cabins are light, airy and very roomy. The dining saloon
is full width of the ships, also magnificent music room,
with gentlemen’s smoking room and splendid promenade
deck. Fore-cabin is on the main deck—lofty and well-
ventilated, perfect sanitation and ample lavatories. Fore-
cabin passengers provided with victuals and rugs. Inspec-
tion invited on days of sailing.
Return Tickets available for Six Months.
For Fares and Freights apply
IHDDART, PARKER »i 4 0. (Limited).
Office and Wharf: Foot of Margaret Street, Sydney.
NORDDEUTSCHES LLOYD.
IMPERIAL GERMAN MAIL.
Passengers are carried according to the requirements of
the English Passenger Acts of 1885 and 1863.
MONTHLY LINE OF DIRECT STEAMERS
from
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, and ADELAIDE,
to SOUTHAMPTON, ANTWERP, and BREMEN, via
COLOMBO, Aden, Suez, and Genoa,
taking passengers for London,
connecting from PORT SAID by DIRECT MAIL and
PASSENGER LINE to BRINDISI,
will be despatched as follows (if practicable):—
And thereafter every four weeks.
PASSAGE MONEY from SYDNEY,
£l4 to £57 10s.
RETURN TICKETS, available for NINE and TWELVE
MONTHS, at REDUCED RATES.
Passengers and Cargo are booked through to New York,
via Southampton.
Special facilities are afforded for bringing out relatives
and friends from the United Kingdom and Europe by pre-
payment of the passage money in Australia.
For FREIGHT, PASSAGE, and all further particulars,
apply to FREDK. BETZ & CO., Agents, 5 O’Connell-street.
D
IRECT SERVICE TO ENGLAND.
PENINSULAR AND ORIENTAL STEAM
NAVIGATION dOMPANY.
The Company’s Royal Mail Steamships (under contract,
with the Imperial, New South Wales, Victorian, and South
Australian Governments) will be dispatched from their
Wharf, Circular Quay, as under, for LONDON, calling at
Melbourne, Adelaide, Albany, Colombo, Aden, Brindisi,
Malta, Gibraltar, and Plymouth.
Steamers.
Commander.
Arcadia .. J 6362 W. B. Andrews
Britannia .. 6257 J. Orman ..
Carthage .. '5013 W. A. Wheler .
Victoria .. 6268 G. F. Cates
Valetta .. '4919 R. F. Briscoe .
Ballaarat .. '4748 E. Ashdown
0)
rt 3
Mar. 29 April 4 lAprl7
[April 15 April 19 Ap. 23
May 6 May 10 Mayl4
May 20 [May 24 May2B
June 3 |June 7 Jun.ll
June 17 June 21 .Tun.2s
J | Qi .
►G : C
5-e a I Sg 5
5 o
And henceforth every alternate week.
RESERVED CABINS ON MODERATE TERMS.
SALOON PASSENGERS MAYBREAKTHEIR JOURNEY.
The arrangements for SECOND SALOON PASSENGERS
having been thoroughly re-organised, the accommodation
now offered is unsurpassed. Passage-money can be paid
here for passages from England. Liberal concessions made
to families. Passengers, cargo, and parcels are booked
through to India, China, and Japan. Cargo and parcels
will not be received after 3 p.m. on the day previous to
sailing. For all information apply at the Company’s
Offices, 247 George-street. A. MACLEAN Acting Agent.
COMPAGNIE DES MESSAGERIES MARL
TIMES.
SYDNEY to LONDON.
OVERLAND FROM MARSEILLES via PARIS.
Steamers under postal contract with the Government of
France, calling at MELBOURNE ADELAIDE, KING
GEORGE’S SOUND, MAKE, SUEZ, and PORT SAID.
Passengers booked to KURRACHEE, BOMBAY,
MAURIT US, and EAST COAST of AFRICA.
The service is carried on by powerful steamers of 4000
tons and 3000 effective h.p., built expressly for the Aus-
tralian and New Caledonian line, which will be despatched
as follows: —
Steamers.
1
I Commander.
Leave Sydney! Leave Mel-
at 11 a.m. ibourne4p.m
AUSTRALI’N Didier .. .. April 25 April 28
OCEANIEN .. Poydenot . 'May 25 May 28
And thenceforward on the 25th of each month.
Rates of passage-money to Marseilles from £2O to £65,
including table wines and Suez Canal dues on passengers.
RETURN TICKETS issued at the following rates: —
English interpreters meet through passengers for
London on arrival of steamers at Marseilles, and accom-
pany them to Paris and Calais. N.B.—Passengers’ luggage
conveyed free of cost from Marseilles to London. For
freight, passage, and further particulars apply at the
Company’s Office, 15 Macquarie-place.
A. CONIL, Principal Agent.
JOHN BRIDGE & 00.,
CIRCULAR QUAY, SUSSEX STREET, <0
DARE ISO HARBOUR,
WOOL- BROKERS,
Hides, Tallow, Sheepskins, Kaiujaroo, Bear and
Opossum Skins, itc.
ATJCTIO3NTEERS.
C3-R.A.IW


READ THIS. —A few quotations from H. C.
Armstrong’s
extensive DRUGGISTS’ SUNDRIES STOCK LIST.
Shijfle Trusses ... ... ... ... From 3,(5
Double Trusses ... ... ... ~ 0/0
Men's Strengthening Belts and Supports ... ~ 2/0
Women’s ditto ditto . ~ 4/5
Men's and Women's Magnetic and Electric
Belts. Supports and Corsets ... ... „ 6/6
Air Cushions and Pillows
Ice Bags
Feet and Stomach Warmers
-Reversible Celluloid Trusses
Bath Gloves and Rubbers
From 2/C
„ 2/6
4/0
I! i/- j
Chest Protectors (various colours, all sizes)
Respirators for the Mouth (various kinds)
Mother’s Nursing Aprons and Bibs
India-rubber Water Bottles, screw top, two
pints to one gallon ...
From
11-2
2 h
1/6
„ 12/6
Finest Turkey Toilet Sponges ... ...
Finest Turkey Bath Sponges ... ...
Pocket Spirit and Oil Lamps for Boiling
Water and Pood ... ~, ...
Piesse <& Lubins’ Perfumes ...
Pears’ assorted Toilet Soaps .. t ...
From
»
1./«
6 -
„ 2/-
22/- per doz.
4/(5 per doz.
sw
Kindly send for complete PRICE LIST, which includes all H. 0.
ARMSTRONG’S WELL-KNOWN PROPRIETARY MEDICINES
Note the Address:
EC. C. ARMSTROKTGr, 156 “George street KTortlx,
(NEAR CIRCULAR QUAYI;
And at WILCANNIA, BROKEN HILL, SILYERTON arid MOUNT BROWNE, N.S.W.
Sydney
Notice to Artistic and Literary Contributors
Strictly Original matter contributed to Tub Bulletin
will be paid for. The Editor will be glad to receive and
consider contributions as under :
1. Original humorous or political matter, illustrated or
otherwise. (Dra wings must be made in clean lines
of Indian ink on white paper or Bristol-board.)
9. Unpublished anecdotes of living celebrities, or people
■who ought to be celebrated.
.!. Humorous poems (from eight to forty-eight lines pre-
ferred.
h. Serious poems, of similar or greater length, especially
those suitable for pictorial illustration.
li. Short Australian or other stories, up to, say, 3000
words. About half that length, or even less, will
be preferred.
All Contributions must be Written Legibly, on One
Side Only of the paper, and folded, not rolled. The
name ami address of the writer must appear, in all
cases, on the MS. itself, and not merely on an accompany-
ing letter or paper. The Proprietors do not hold them-
selves responsible for Rejected Contributions; but, if
accompanied by a stamped and addressed envelope or
■wrapper, every effort will be made to return them.
The Editor does not undertake to enter into any
correspondence respecting rejected Manuscripts.
Allcock’s Porous Plasters.
—IN —
Chest, Liver, and Kidney Affections.
It. Veryan Vicarage, Gram pound-road,
‘ Cornwall, January, 1890.
Dear Sir, —I write to inform you that your
“ AJlcockV Porous Plasters ” are excellent —a real
blessing. Whatever I may say, I feel I cannot
praise- them sufficiently. I have given away
hundreds amongst the poor and suffering, and 1
cannot recall a single instance where they failed
to give relief. They have been used by me for
complaints in the chest, liver, kidneys, and spine,
with marked results, in fact, I know of three
speciai eases out of many (one of chest, one of
liver, one of kidneys) where the sufferers had been
to the infirmary, tried many doctors, without any
benefit, and were told that nothing more could be
done. I gave them your plasters, and after a fair
trial of them the result was really wonderful.
The sufferer in the chest no longer complains of
weakness, has Pst all distressing cough, and is
quite strong. The sufferer from liver complaint
no longer complains of indigestion and pains in
the side and between the shoulders, but is quite a
different person. The sufferer from kidney com-
plaint no longer lies in bed nine months in the
year in agonies, but is able to get out of doors
every day, and is free from pain. I shall recom-
mend these plasters wherever I go.—With all
good wishes for the New Year, yours very grate-
fully, %
Jamks Arthur Kkmp, Minister.
ALLCOCK’S POROUS PLASTERS are sold
by all Chemists, in various sizes, from 1/1A to 22/6.
Re sure you get Allcock’s.
Companies.
The British ami Mew South Wales Investment
and Financial €«., Unified.
Incorporated under the Companies’ Act, 1874.
Capital, £250,000.
Sydney Office: 240 TITT STREET.
BILLS DISCOUNTED and Immediate Advances granted
Daily. Country communications promptly attended
to. The ‘following Rates of Interest are allowed for Fixed
Deposits:—
3 Years
12 Months
6 Months
3 Months
10 per cent.
9 per cent.
8 per cent.
7 per cent.
With a Guaranteed Bonus on Renewals of Twelve Months
and over.
Bv order of the Board.
W. M'DONALD, Manager.
SMOKE NOTHING BUT
PIPES.
ď
PIPES.
THE BEST IN THE WORLD.
Wholesale Agents :
JULIUS GOLDSCHMIDT & GO.
331 Clarence Street.
First Prize— MELBOURNE EXHIBITION.
Mr. Joseph Hatton, it is pretty plain?
writes the S.M. Herald’s “English gossip.” In
the London Sunday Times, which Mr. Hatton
edited a short time ago, appeared a paragraph to
the effect that the “London gossip” in the S.M.
Herald aforesaid was the brightest thing sent out
of London ; and now we read in the S.M. Herald’s
“London gossip” column that: “The editor of
the Sunday Times, who preceded Mr. Phil Robin-
son ” (Mr. Joseph Hatton, of course) “and is
credited with having revived the influence of the
paper, is outside the possibility of return from his
engagement with the New York Herald.” What
insatiable self-advertisers are these Cockney ink-
slingers ! A few of ’the modest creatures are now
out in Australia writing their own lives in the
papers. Douglas Brooke Wheelton, &c., Sladen,
8.A., &c., &c., who stuck about fourteen pages
of his own “ poetry ” into an Australian anthology
—edited by him and which is a laughing-stock if
only by reason of the gorgeous bosh written by
the bogus poets about themselves at _ the end of
the book, had a chilled-steel cheek which has ever
compelled our most enthusiastic admiration, but
we now seriously think of dividing the cake, a
large hunk whereof must go to other quarters.
Dear Bulletin. —Perhaps you are not
aware that Captain Schaack, the writer of the
apocrypha entitled “ The Chicago Haymarket
Conspiracy,” was exposed in the Chicago Times
in company with Inspector Bonfield for levying
blackmail on unfortunate women and even on
decent women who feared loss of reputation, and
for accepting bribes from those mixed up in dis-
creditable affairs. Bonfield, afterwards charged
with diamond-stealing, was suspended from the
police-force and his resignation accepted ; Schaack
was dismissed from the Chicago police-force for
neglect of duty, suppression of testimony and
disobedience in June last. He was very busy in
the Cronin affair and, it is said, tried to shield for
a heavy bribe Sullivan who was implicated. It
has since been discovered that Schaack was in the
habit of creating bogus anarchist clubs in order
that he might get glory and earn rewards and
promotion by breaking them up. He is now
cultivating cabbages on his own estate in Wisconsin
and as it is said that lie can do little more than
write his signature, little importance can be at-
tached to the publication of a book bearing his
name, evidently published to sell like any other
“Shilling-shocker.”—Yours, Truth. -
THE SYDNEY DU I TEES’ PROTECTIVE ASSOCIATION
—AND —
ASSURANCE, FINANCIAL, and GENERAL ESTATE AGENCY.
£lOO,OOO
£lOO,OOO
ONE HUNDRED THOUSAND POUNDS TO LEND ,
On all classes of Approved Security at Lowest Rates of Interest. Property released from Building Societies , <fec
Offices: Exchange Chambers, George and Campbell Streets, Haymarket, Sydney, N.S.W
Newcastle Branch, Bolton Street (J. F. Handheld).
r j'l UB Company is for the Benefit of all Horse Drivers and of Horses and "Vehicles.
Proprietors Please Note This Company is responsible, for your horses and vehicles, providing your
drivers are subscribers (same as if the said drivers’ own property).
VETERINARY SURGEON :
William Scott, Esq., M.R.0.V.5., 20 Elizabeth-st., Sydney
COACHBUILDBRS:
t’has. Glencross, Esq., Factory, Erskihville-rd., Macdon-
aldt’n ; Messrs. Woods & Spinks, Factory, Darling-st., Ult -
DOCTORS:
A. C. Brownless, Esq., M.D., 285 Elizabeth-st., Sydney.
J. G. Bourchier, Esq., M.D., J.P., Redfern-st., Redfern.
DISPENSING CHEMIST :
H. A. Rose, Esq., M.P.S., 531 George-st., Sydney.
SOLICITOR :
W. J. Hill, Esq.. 26 Elizabeth-st., Sydney.
BANKERS :
The Australian Joint Stock Bank, Haymarket.
MANAGING DIRECTOR:
Francis Australia Piper, A., C.E,, Q.S.
Office Hours : 9 a.m. till 12.30., and 2 p.m. till 5 p.m.
Subscribers Claims on the Company.
I.—Have the services ot the Company’s Solicitor free
for their defence at the Police Courts When summoned for
breaches of the by-laws of the M.T.O. and S.M.C., and his
special advice in connection with any such cases.
■2.—ln addition to the above the Company will lend sub-
scribers money to pay their fines into Court, which they
can arrange to pay oil by instalments with 5 p.c. interest.
3. —Are entitled to send their vehicles to the Company’s
coachbuilders and have any damage, caused by accident,
made good, free to any amount not exceeding B'ive Pounds
Five Shillings (£5 55.) for each and every accident.
•1. —Have the attendance of the Company’s Veterinary
Surgeon on their horses, and medicines free. If a horse
dies from natural causes the carcase will be removed ; if
killed by accident Five Pounds Five Shillings (£5 55.) will
be paid for same.
•5.—A Subscrfber is allowed two horses and one vehicle.
Special arrangements made where Subscribers are using
more than two horses.
(i. —Have the attendance of the Company’s Doctor and
Medicines free. In case of death from natural causes the
deceased shall be buried by the Company ; if killed by
accident, Ten Pounds Ten Shillings (£lO 10s.) in addition
to funeral expenses.
7. Subscriber being a married man can, by paying Is.
6d. extra per month, have the doctor and medicine free
for his wife and children up to 14 years of age, free also.
8. —All medicines ordered by Company’s Doctors obtained
free from Company’s Chemist.
Subscriptions.— Entrance Fee, Bs. Subscriptions, 2s. 6d. per month, or £1 ss. per annum, payable in
advance. If marrjed and require the doctor for wife and children, Is. (id. per month extra.
r.r
&
Lruvnrt.
r t V-* V t
it-&■*/'a*,^.
/J~7 S tc £
7
rJ^lT'r/t-^
MBDICA.L REFORM.
rpHEHE exists a crying need for
the medical profession to stai
the quackery which is so rampant
in these colonies Men having no
medical qualifications nor aptitude
for the treatment of diseases, still
advertise with impunity as doctors;
and guarantee to do what they know
they are incapable of doing, and
thus deceive the public who arc
caught by their specious and lying
advertisements, as is amply testified
by reading the exposures in the
Daily Telegraph from August 3
to 11, 1887.
A chief cause of this state of things
is that medical men from mistaken
notions of professional decorum,
and because they consider it infra
dig, refrain from entering the field
against these quacks. So long as this prudery exists so long will this canker consume our youth. At the risk, how-
ever, of professional opprobrium I have decided to throw aside this false delicacy, and avow my sympathy with, and
readiness to treat such affections, in the hope of saving the young of both sexes from the ruin of health and mind
which consulting these quacks ensures, not to mention the ruin of their pockets.
A patient writes to me : “ I am in such a miserable state I would pay you what I could afford for a lifetime, if
you could possibly be the means of letting me know what health is, and perhaps saving me from suicide which seems
to be my only release if this appeal fails. Kindly and humanely do not allow it to be in vain, and you will never regret
it. I have been victimised by a person calling himself a ‘ doctor.’ My father (of course 1 did not let him know the
nature of my ailment) paid this person £7 75., all for nothing, for which he said he would guarantee a cure in three
months.” Now, if qualified medical men would advertise in such a way as to bring their names before these sufferers,
and convince them of their sympathy, cases like the above which unfortunately are of daily occurrence, would not
occur: groundless fears would not be excited, and where disease exists it would be safely and permanently cured. I
am a legally and highly qualified practitioner, and have for over 20 years devoted especial study to chronic, nervous
and special diseases of men and women, and I am therefore justified in guaranteeing a cure in all cases amenable to
trGftt'lllCTlt.
Sufferers from impaired vitality, or nervousness, should read my book on “ Nervous Debility,” free by post foi-
ls. where they will find much useful information and directions for self-cure. Those wishing a farther insight should
read my work on the “ Male Generative Function in Health and Disease,” free by post for 2s. 6d.
Consultation by Letter ... £l.
Dr. ALE x7~ PATER S O N,
AM, M.D., F.R.C.S., Ed., M.R.C.S., Eno.,
157 E3X.I2S u«k.El3E3‘3C"ia: 83 TiT*. JES3ES ’□l7, S'STOINriES Y.
Miscellaneous.
Read. XJxis !
A GOLDEN opportunity awaits smart gentle
men in all the colonies who are anxious to
make money rapidly.
Apply at once.
“ AFRICA,”
Box GlO, G.P.0., SYDNEY,
MOW ACKNOWLEDGED
THE BEST
IN THE MARKET
đ
M.W.&C2
aMSIHM
SOLD
EVERYWHERE
Medical.
HEALTH for the MILLION !
WATSON'S
Mill, Aperient, Antibilious
Pills, purely vegetable
in their composition,
are particularly recommended to either sex, where a
gentle, but effective aperient is required. These Pills
are invaluable for all complaints of the Stomach, and
Liver, speedily removing sick headache, biliousness,
indigestion, etc., and cleansing the
blood of all impurities. To Ladies
these pills will be found invaluable.
One trial is sufficient to prove their vast superiority
over all others. Sold by all Chemists and Storekeepers.
Price Is, per box. Prepared solely by John Watson,
Chemist, George Street, Sydney.
PILLS
Book of Uature.
d
Book of Mature.
BOOK OF NATURE and Illustrated Matri-
monial Guide. —A full and explicit explanation
of the structure and uses of the organs of life and genera-
tion in man and woman, intended especially for the
married, or those intending to marry, and who conscien-
tiously and honestly desire to inform' themselves upon the
intent and nature of marriage and its duties, to which is
added a complete MEDICAL TREATISE upon all diseases
of the generative organs, whether resulting from infection
or sexual excesses and abuse, with much other valuable
and highly important information, illustrated with more
than fifty engravings, by M. Lafayette Byrn, M.D. ; price
:{/6, post 4/-. The Fruits of Philosophy or Private Com-
panion for Married People, post 1/2. Mrs. Besant’s Law of
Population, 1/-, post 1/2. Wonderful Song Book, extra
large, 1/6. Aristotle, complete, 3/6, post 4/-. Maria Monk,
1/6, post 1/9. New complete Fortune Teller, 2s. ‘‘The
Matron’s Manual or Midwifery,” the book every married
woman needs; price 7/-, posted 7/6. “ The Male Genera-
tive Organs,” their use and abuse, with many illustrations
and coloured plates; price 7/-, posted 7/6. The arts of
Boxing, Swimming and Gymnastics made easy, enabling
anyone to become an expert boxer or athlete, illustrated
\vith fifty engravings ; price 1/-. “ Marriage as it was, as
it' is, and as it should be,” by Mrs. Besant; 1/-, posted 1/2.
Dr. Foote’s Plain Home Talk, new edition, over 200 illu-
strations; 7/6, post free. “The Labour Movement in
America,” by Aveling, post free 1/6. Matrimony, or
Phrenology and Physiology applied to the selection of
Congenial Companions for Life, 6d. The Elements of
Social Science ; 3/6, posted 4/-. Nigger Songs, 6d. Henry
George’s Works all at 1/-, posted 1/4. Works of Ingersoli,
Paine, Bradlaugh, Besant, Foote. Send for catalogue.
SIIR- EOBEET BEAB,
Radical Book Stores,
16 H PARK STREET. SYDNEY.
SYDNEY CATERING COMPANY, LTD-,
(Late G-unsler’s Cafe)
175 Pitt Street, Sydney,
WISH their former Patrons and the Public Generally to know that their Saloons have been Entirely
t heir new cusine a trial.
JAMES 0- MARQUAND, Manager-
rpnE COLONIAL MUTUAL LIFE ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED.
BRANCHES THROUGHOUT THE COLONIES AND THE UNITED KTNGDOJL
PoLiciiiS Ltueu uudcr the Ordinary, Tonti» to uml Mortuary oividend Systems.


It is said, on what authority is not clear,
that the Melbourne Augub will shortly bo floated
into a company.
The human body is supposed to consist of
60 nor cent, water and 40 per cent, solid. Many
bodies, however, consist of 40 per cent, water and
60 per cent, whisky. No solids at all.
We hear some very peculiar, not to say
startling rumors about a recent marriage between
a new-chum, of titled descent, and a young Aus-
tralian lady of wealth. Some very plain state-
ments could be made, but it is sufficient to say
that had the parents and friends of the young lady
made even ordinary enquiries the marriage could
not possibly have taken place with their consent.
Says Sam. P. Jones :
I recently received a protest to the programme I sug-
gested concerning the whisky in this city. I said I wished
it all could be emptied into the harbour. This friend
protests. She wants it emptied into the lake of fire and
brimstone. She doesn’t want the harbour contaminated
with it. I always said I believe whisky is a good thing in
its place. I believe its place is in hell. If I was there, I
might drink it every day ; hut I will never do it on top of
ground.
The S.P.J. in question, however, has “reverend ”
before his name, and must not be confounded with
any other Sam. P. Jones.
The Melbourne detective force was allotted
{by the local press) a crown of laurels for the
acumen displayed in the tracking of Pierre Douars,
the French escapee from Pentridge. It is now
openly asserted that Douars’ pal “split,” which
accounts for his being allowed to get away, and
never having been recaptured. Considering that
Judas got away with another fellow’s trousers and
sundry valuables from the Bourke-street Coffee
Palace, this little story wants enquiring into.
Probably it is true enough. When do the police
make a smart capture “ unless ” they have been
put right up to the job ? Good old information
received !
The Paris sensation is the Gouffe murder-
case. Gouffe, a military officer who supplemented
his income from some shady sources, was murdered
lately by an associate named Reybaud. The
murder was done at a place hired for the
purpose; the murderer lassoed his victim (who
had a woman on his knee) from behind a cur-
tain. The body was crammed into a trunk, and
thus taken away. 11 aving obtained Gouffe’s keys,
the murderer went to the victim’s lodgings, which
he rifled of valuables. The body was hidden in a
forest, the trunk which conveyed it being chopped up
into small pieces and left. Nevertheless, the police
put the trunk all together again. The young woman
who acted as the decoy-duckis in custody. LTllus-
teation gives seven engravings of the affair. One
of them shows the process of examining prisoners
in France for future identification. Not only are
their photographs taken, but all their measure-
ments, much more closely than by the most parti-
cular tailor. Even the head is measured every
way, with the length of nose and length of ears,
and waxen impressions are taken of the ball of
the thumb.
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
Reliable Watch Repairs. Dahms & Co., King-st. Arcade.
Photography. —Charlemont and Co. (vice-regal
photographers), in the Royal Arcade, beg to an-
nounce that they have now reduced the price of
their Cabinet Photographs to One Guinea per doz.
any style—bust, vignette or three-quarter figure.
Messrs. Charlemont feel assured that this reduc-
tion in price will meet the many who refrained
from sitting in their studio, solely on account of
the price hitherto being higher than they might
care to pay. Grosvenor Galleries, Royal Arcade.
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
Victorian potatoes, which in Melbourne
fetch about 50a. a ton, bring in England £36 a ton.
The oldest attorney in Australia is Mr.
B. 0. Rodd, of Sydney, who was admitted to the
“order of the Golden Fleece ” in September, 1833.
Startling item of news from the Times.
We do love quoting from that dear old paper:-
“Lord Churchill arrived at Osborne yesterday
and kissed hands on his appointment as Lord in
Waiting.
An able, if eccentric, medico, in an in-
land N.S.W. town, once got into a scrape over a
cheque, now believed by most people to have been
a “ put-up job.” He got and served a sentence of
two years for it. While undergoing the sentence
a tradesman’s wife, on whom he had attended at
various times, was taken ill. All the medical
men at liberty tried their hands and physic
and failed. The patient declared that only
the incarcerated doctor could do her any
good, and the facts having been put before
the Colonial Secretary of the day permission
was given the medico to visit the patient daily in
charge of a warder. It was one of the sights of
the town to see the warder and the doctor doing
the local block. The lady recovered, her husband
is now a member of Parliament, and the doctor is
in active practice in another town, where, as in his
former district, he is a general favourite.
An enterprising gang of Sydney pressmen,
arrayed in waterproof-coats and that moral recti-
tude which is emblematic of the profession, in-
vaded the Bulli Pass on a recent Sabbath.
Fatigued by an overdose of Henry George, and
by constant attendance at Sunday-school, they
defied the elements and sought distraction in
physical labour and whisky. Host Dickson,
of the Bulli Hotel, supplied the latter without
a murmur, and the heads of the party fitted their
hats better than might have been expected when
they returned to duty on the journalistic tread-
mill. The grand and lovely Bulli Pass is still
there ; and, in their leisure moments, more than
one of the marauders has been heard to declare
that they “had a real good time,” and that the
Bulli Hotel is no slouch of a camp for a hungry
and tired traveller with a 10 h.p. drouth on him.
Dear Bulletin, —In a recent issue you
refer to a reporter who once, from a parliamentary
gallery, informed the members of a Ministry that
they were a lot of idiotic fools. You haven’t quite
got the record. I remember the circumstance, as
I saw it and knew the inkslinger intimately. It
happened in Adelaide. The Morgan - Mann
Ministry was in power. There was a discussion
about whether or not the House should adjourn
over either some show-day or some race-day, and
the motion was—“ That this House, at its rising,
adjourn till Tuesday next.” The opposers of this
motion talked volumes of dreary rot, with my
friend as parliamentary reporter. He drank deeply
—but not of their discussion, which he calmly
ignored as mere padding. At last, when amend-
ment after amendment had been suggested and
talked to, he rose in his wrath and said —“ Mish’r
Shpeaker—hie—in sher great caush o’ sher people,
and in sher name—hie —o’ sher Pressh o’ sher
colony—hie—I beg ’er move an ’raen’ment—
‘ That shish ’Ouse forthswish azshurn frever’more-
amen.’” Our joker just escaped downstairs as the
Sergeant-at-Arms was going up to arrest him.—
Yours, The Dipsomaniac.
Federation —lt is rumored, that, had it not
been for the wonderful vitality properties contained
in Herr Rassmussen’s celebrated Denmark Vitality
Pills, most of the Delegates attending the recent
Federation Conference would have succumbed to
the enermous strain on their nervous system, and
the much longed for Federation would have been
further off than ever.
Medical
*»•
r }) tfc '
St «
Vw
V/
o>Pd r>%!£&<(
The Seven Cuticura Boys
These seven beautiful boys owe their beauty of
skin, luxuriance of hair, purity of blood, and
freedom from hereditary taint or humors of the skin
or scalp to the celebrated Cuticura Remedies.
For cleansing, purifying and beautifying the skin
of children and infants, and curing torturing, dis-
figuring, itching, scaly and pimply diseases of the
skin, scalp and blood, with loss of hair, from in-
fancy to old age, Cdtxcuka, the great skin cure,
and Cuticura Soap, an exquisite skin beautifier,
prepared from it externally, and Cuticura Re-
solvent, the new blood purifier, internally, are
infallible. ■
Your moat valuable Cuticura Remedies have
done my child so much good that I feel like saying
this for the benefit of those who are troubled with
skin disease. My little girl was troubled with
Eczema, and I tried several doctors and medicines,
but did not do her any good until I used the Cuti-
cura Remedies, which speedily cured her, for
which I owe you many thanks and many nights of
rest. ANTON BOSSIMER, Edinburgh, Ind.
The Cuticura Remedies are in great demand.
The Cuticura Resolvent sells better than any
other blood purifier. The Cuticura Soap is
praised by my customers, especially mothers, who
say it is the best for babies, preventing and curing
scall head and similar diseases.
GEORGE HOBBS, P. M., Collins, Texas.
PIN!
iPLES, blackheads, red, rough, Chapped and
I oily skin prevented by Cuticxjba Soap.
Our little son will be lour years of age on tna
25th inst. In May, 1885, he was attacked with a
very painful breaking out of the skin. We called
in a physician, who treated him for about four
weeks. The child received little or no good from
the treatment, as the breaking out, supposed by
the physician to be hives in an aggravated form,
became larger in blotches and more and more dis-
tressing. We were frequently obliged to get up
in the night and rub him with soda in water,
strong liniments, etc. Finally, we called other
physicians, until no less than six had attempted to
cure him, all alike failing, and the child steadily
getting worse and worse,, until about the 20th of
last July, when we began to give him CtmcuEA
Resolvent internally, and the Cuticuea. and Ctr-
ticuba Soap externally, and by the last of August
he was so nearly well that we gave him only one
dose of the Resolvent about every second day
for about ten days longer, and he has never been
troubled since with the horrible malady.
H. E. RYAN, Cayuga, Livingston Co., 111.
Subscribed and sworn to before me this fourth
day of January, 1887. C. N. COE, J. P.
Sold everywhere. Price: Cdtxctjea, 50c« ; Soap,
25c.; Resolvent, $l. Prepared by the Potter
Drug and Chemical Co., Boston, Mass.
Send for “ How to Cure Skin Diseases,” 64
pages, 60 illustrations, and 100 testimonials.
BABY’S
Bkin, scalp and hair preserved and beau-
tified by the use of Cuticura Soap.
Address: R. TOWNS & CO., SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Great Medical Reform I
Consult (FREE) HERR RASSMUSSEN, the Celebrated Danish Herbalist,
Expert Specialist in all Private Complaints, Barrenness and Nervous Diseases.
omm
-DENMARK -
WurtM
%
i
\
%
%
'I
•y,
%
'I
%>
%
I
I
A
I*
9
s
T
V
I
?
ft
L
I
T
y
>j|GOB
# 1H
# ,a
pm
if
uflti
#
#
01.
d
Rest®
V
ITALITY
A Guaranteed Cure
for
Nervous Debility and
Lost Vitality.
22a. 6d. per Course.
Smaller Box ss. (id.
Only Herbalist in Austr
That has received “Gold Medal” for Great Cures Performed, and is Honourably m the ffistory of Ne w South
for Great Herbal Discoveries; and who can prove that he has CURED OVER 20,000 RAiiitiNib.
DENMARK
Sole Proprietor and Discoverer of the Celebrated
VITALITY PILLS,
Registered,
Which have been the means of Curing ao many Thousands of Sufferers from Nervous Debility, pjst Vitality, Errors. Weakness, Despondency,
Impure Blood. 225. Gd. per Course ; Smaller Box, os. Gd.
G-exxuine Testimonials.
To HERR RASSMUSSEN.—Dear Sir,—This is to certify that you
cured me of a very serious blood disease, after many doctors had
failed.-JOHN REYNOLDS, Chappel-street, Leichhardt, Sydney.
To HERR RASSMUSSEN, the celebrated Danish Herbalist.—Dear
Benefactor,—l have much pleasure to inform the public that you
cured my wife of an internal complaint of a very serious nature, after
all the doctors had given her up.—ARCHIBALD MACFARLANE,
Eden Cottage, Barney-street, Armidale.
To HERR RASSMUSSEN, Specialist in Nervous Diseases. Dear
Sir,—l hereby thank you for the great cure you performed on me for
a very complicated nervous affection, and I shall always recommend
you to sufferers from Nervous Debility.—PHlLLlP STEAD, 54 Parra-
matta-road, Annandale, Sydney.
To HERR RASSMUSSEN, Danish Herbalist.—Dear Sir and Bene-
factor,—lt gives me great pleasure to testify to your wonderful skill
in the treatment of Disease. You cured me of a terrible complaint
after the doctors gave me up, and although it is four years since, I am
as well as ever. I shall recommend you to all.—Yours, gratefully, A.
RAMSDEN, Great Western Coffee Palace, Castlereagh-street, Sydney.
To HERR RASSMUSSEN, Specialist in Nervous Diseases.—Dear
Sir, —I hereby certify that I have been under your skilful treatment
for’a very obstinate case of nervous debility, and that you cured me
with one course of your Vitality Pills.—D. M‘NEILL, Hornsby
Junction, N.S.W.
mm
m
IBS
Opinions of tlie Press,
It is a well-known fact that HERR BASSMUSSEN, the Celebrated
Danish Herbalist, has performed many great cures during the past few
years, as his numerous testimonials will prove.— Sydney Bulletin.
HERR RASSMUSSEN.—We have been shown some excellent Testi-
monials of the great cures performed by Herr Bassmuseen, the cele-
brated Danish Herbalist. — Australian Star.
HERB RASSMUSSEN has now been established in the colonies
for 10 years.—Sunday Times, April 28,1888.
HERR RASSMUSSEN has become a celebrity in the curing of all
diseases of the nervous system. His name has become a wonder
throughout the Southern Hemisphere. He was presented with a Gold
Medal for some of his miraculous cures.— Balmain Leader, May 12,1888.
HERR RASSMUSSEN.— The remarkable cures which he has effected
are pretty generally known.—Balmain Observer, April 28,1888.
We are perpetually receiving letters from HERR RASSMUSSEN’S
cured patients requesting us to make known to the public the wonder-
ful medical skill this remarkable man possesses, and he has just been
presented with a Gold Medal from several of his cured patients.
—Sydney Weekly News, May 26, 1887.
Herr Rassmussen’s Hertoal Remedies. (REGISTERED.)
DENMARK VITALITY PlLLS.—Guaranteed to cure Nervous Debility, Lost Vitality, Errors of Youth and Despondency. Price, 225. 6d. per full course ; small box, ss. 6d.
DENMARK FEMALE RESTORER PlLLS.—Guaranteed to cure all complaints peculiar to Females, Irregularities, and eradicates complaints which cause barrenness.
Price, 225. 6d. per course ; small box, ss. 6d.
LOCK CURE PlLLS.—Guaranteed to Cure all diseases of the blood, discharges, sores, and strictures. Price, 225. 6d. per course ; small box, ss. 6d.
CONSULTATION AND ADVICE FREE.
All the above remedies are made of PURE HERBS, and are forwarded unobserved. A valuable treatise on Nervous Debility, Private Complaints, and Barrenness, sent
free on receipt of 4d stamped addressed envelope. Consultation personally or by post, free. Patients are examined with the aid of the Microscope.
Address : - Herr RASSMUSSEN, the Danish Herbalist,
Corner Qordon-atreet & Park-roaH, PadLcUbagton, Sydney.
TRAMS—Take Paddington Tram to Paddington Tram Waiting-room.
1
DENMARK
mwM
$
%
\
%
%
\l
1.
%
%
V
ď
g
s
T
0
g
I
s
I
1
T
A
I
T
d
J#
£ #
(#
✓
r
9
■ot
mmm.
Mm
d
ITALUY
A Guaranteed Cure
for »
Nervous Debility and
Lost Vitality.
225. Cd. per Course.
Smaller Box ss. Od.


Business Announcements.
-THE-
Fresh Food & |ce Co.,
LIMITED,
HARBOUR STREET*
SYDNEY,
Are determined to go ahead They are
oow supplying Customers who take a Quart of
Milk and Over per Day at
THREEPENCE PER QUART!
This appears very wonderful , hut vt is
quite true.
|W" Weekly Accounts.
A. BOWMAN’S
LONDON MADE
Porpoise Hide Boots
Are Reduced from 30s. to 21s.
249 PITT ST., SYDNEY, Near Tattersall's.
Porpoise Hide Wears Twice as Long
as any other Leather.
They are noted all over London,
Birmingham amd Liverpool.
London Jb 'asliions,
AND
Fresh Goods Every Fortnight.
Trade Supplied Wholesale at a Great Advantage.
PLOBCH-SHARES.
IN EQUITY.
HORNSBY V. HUDSON.
-w
NOTIO 33
TO THE
Farming CommunijofHew SouthWa'es.
HUDSON BROS., Ltd.,
Are still making the Shares which formed
the subject of this great lawsuit. They
are now branded
DEE
and their quality is better than ever.
HU/>
Farmers desirous of encouraging Colonial
Industry can obtain these Shares from our
Local Agent.
NOTE—Trial samples free of cost.
HOT and CO'CH \
Seawater Baths,
Warrnajigooli, Victoria.
HYGIENIC, CURATIVE.
CURKS
SCIATICA, RHEUMATISM,
Herrons A Skin Diseasss.
(Testimonials from all parts of the
Colonies.
Water direct from Southern Ocean
pumped by eras motor, retaining all
natural qualities; free from objec-
tions ot Bay cater. Large swnn-
ruing basins for ladies and gentle-
men. Marble plunge baths, hand-
somely appointed. Bracing air,
chinning scenery, fishing, shooting,
beautiful drives place VVarrnambool ,
.in the front rank as a sanatorium.
Thomas floss,
TOBACCO 4. CIGAR IMPORTER,
27 HUNTER STREET. SYDNEY,
(Corner of Pitt Street.)
A large stock of Genuine llavniinali Cigars, of the
choicest Brands to select from.
Sole Importer of the Celebrated “ Fl«r rtc ItoHito ”
Brand of Cigars and •* Umpire Cigarettes.”
Falls B ridge Family TTotel.
Falls Bridge, Melbourne.
This magnificent Hotel, containing 50 Double
and Single Rooms, is splendidly furnished and
perfectly ventilated.
Hot and Cold Plunge and Shower Baths.
Electric Bells. Tblki'honk 1217. milliards, dec.
Terms Strictly Moderate.
J. H. DURUANI ~ Manager,
Late ef the South Australian Club Hotel, Adelaide.
Business Announcements.
r
qBERTs
giliSiSE® JS
or*c
w
■■r
ill
a
a
:
ib □ a i=i
2S-
"• :
ROBERTS & 0 0.,
—W HOLESALE-
Ironmongers* Importers* Iron and Machinery Merchants*
HAY AND ENGINE STREETS SYDNEY,
Head Office: 85 Graceclinrch Street, London, E.C.
IMPORTERS OF
Railway & Bridge Contractors’
Plumbers’
Squatters'
Requirements
IN
Great Variety.
' IMPORTERS OF
Engineers’ and Blacksmiths'
Couchtnilders'
k Mining
AGENTS FOR:
Korting’s Gas Englnes—The bbst and cheapest yet made. Automatic self-governing, thus saving cost of gas.
Braddock’s Water and Gas Meters and Gas Lamps. Reading Iron Works Universal (Split) Pulley Wheels.
Howe’s Platform and Counter Weighing Machines and Weighbridges.
iKjj
t/m
«>
wo
3>
M *
I jjf*
Guinness’ Extra Stout,
FIRST QUALITY.
Bass’ Pale Ale,
FIRST QUALITY.
Sole Purveyors to the
Colonial & Indian Exhibition,
London,
(By Special Appointment).
Wholesale Agents Balchin, Johnston & Co., Sydney.
M. B. FOSTER & SONS. LONDON,
“ BTTG-LE” ALE STOTJT.
)(
PUBLIC NOTICE.
It having come to our knowledge that ALE and STOUT of very inferior quality, in bottles with
skillfully forged labels have lately been palmed off on the public:—
We desire to warn our friends of the fact, and to state that all corks as well as capsules of the
bottles shipped by Messrs. M. B. FOSTER & SONS to this colony bear their name and address.
Any information respecting Bottled Beer purporting to be “ Foster's Bugle Brand ” offered
for sale without these corks and capsules will be esteemed by the undersigned, who have instruc-
tions to bring to justice the perpetrators of the frauds.
A Liberal Reward will be given for information leading to conviction of the offenders.
)(
BA.LCHINT, JOHNSTON & 00-, Sydney,
Agents for Messrs. M. B. Foster & Sons.
for Kupper’a ElberfeldL Lager Beer
(Specially Brewed for Australia). Absolutely Free from Sediment.
THE
Wolseley Sheep-Shearing* machine.
PASTORALISTS are notified that, to avoid disappointment,
no time should be lost in Booking Orders for next Season.
Agents: J. H. GEDDES & CO.,
19 PHILLIP STREET, SYDNEY.
m
"EVERY '
DESCRIPTION
HAIR WORK DONE.
%
%
%
%
%
%
iT
9>
PRIVATE
ROOMS
.F&R LADIES
22*24
ROYAL ARCADE'
MELBOURNE
Cities' Life Assurance Company,
LIMITED.
Capital ... ... X 200,000.
Head Office:
21 Castlereagh Sydney,
With Branches and Agencies throughout the Colonies.
New Business:
1887 There Mere issued 13,657 Policies.
1888 „ „ „ 34.084 „
1883 „ „ „ 67,322 „
These figures show the wonderful progress of the
Company and the high esteem placed upon its
liberal dealings by the public.
>8
CLAIMS PAID
Immediately on Proof of Death
JAMBS P. OARVAN, \
WM. ALEX. SMITH, f
Managing Director.
Secretary.
f
Medical.
ARE YOU NERVOUS?
ip so,
DON’T MISS THIS!
What everyone says is bound to be true, and young
and old, rich and poor, physicians who recommend, and
patients who try
The Kmpp Galvanic Chain Belt,
All agree in praising that most scientific of Electro
Therapeutical Appliances. For Rheumatism it is un-
rivalled. Lumbago at once succumbs to its power. The
Nervous are strengthened and the Debilitated restored to
perfect health and vigour. In short, the appliance is an
unfailing cure for all Nervous, Sexual, or Chronic Diseases,
and is GUARANTEED to ABSOLUTELY CURE, com-
pletely and lastingly, the following complaints:—
Dyspepsia, Neuralgia, Pains in the Back and Chest,
Lumbago, Catarrh, Rheumatism, Dumb Ague,
Nervous Debility, Paralysis, Kidney Complaint,
Spinal Disease, Female Weakness, Diseases of the
Inver, Impotence, Seminal Weakness, Diabetes,
Sciatica, Atrophy, Gout, Indigestion, Asthma, Piles,
Epilepsy Spermatorrhcea, Specks before the Eyes,
Excessive Heart Palpitation, Defective Memory.
An Unfailing Cure For Varicocele-
It is a PORTABLE BODY BATTERY, and contains
special appliances for both sexes; therefore, why waste
your money and health by procuring and taking USELESS
DRUGS? Electricity, when properly applied, is acknow-
ledged by all leading and unprejudiced physicians to be
the only safe and radical cure for Nervous and Sexual
Diseases, and the thousands of testimonials received by
the Krupp Belt Co. from leading personages throughout
Australasia prove the unquest enable curative properties
of Electricity as applied by theapplianoe above referred to.
Our confidence in this appliance is so complete, that
we send the Belt out on trial, and guarantee it
to give perfect satisfaction. For full particulars as to
terms, etc., send for our large illustrated treatise, prbb,
in which these Belts are fully illustrated, the action of
electricity on the nervous system explained, and a lot of
useful information on nervous and sexual diseases given.
This treatise also contains facsimile of testimonials received
from some of our clients who have tried our Belts. The
originals of these testimonials produced on application.
The prices of the Krupp Galvanic Chain Belt and
Suspensory are from £l.
Sole Inventor Carl Krupp.
Business Manager . . A. W. Courtkht.
Address all communications to the
Krupp Galvanic Chain Belt Co.,
Box 647, G.P.0., Sydney, N.S.W.
Remember—The K.G. Chain Belt cures without medicine,
is easy to wear, is sent on approval, and the first cost is
the only cost.
JNDISPENSABLE pOR J, A DIES
AND ALL PERSONS
MOU SON’S
Cocoa Butter Soap is a real skin-beautifier, and a balm to
young and old alike.
MOUSON & CO., PERFUMERS & TOILET SOAP MANUFACTURERS,
FBANKFOHT-ON-THB-MAINE.
LONDON! 32 & 33 HAMSBLL-BT., E.C. PARIS! 29 UfE RAD7.IWILL.
Full guarantee for perfect purity is offered by the
sole Manufacturers, Mouson & Co.
JULIUS GOLDSCHMIDT & CO.,
231 CLARENCE-ST., SYDNEY,
SOLE AGENTS FOR AUSTRALASIA.
l-fROSE'Sk?
%
o
G
mi m
IS 5
ES^T
rpHIS valuable Lotion is guaranteed to cure SWELLING
Y and SANDY BLIGHT, INFLAMED EYES and LIDS,
DIMNESS OF SIGHT, &c. It will be found very bene-
ficial and cooling to those who have weak eyes, or whose
work compels them to strain their eyes. Highly
recommended by the leading Oculists.
Manufactured only by the Proprietor,
H. A. ROSE.
Dispensing and Manufacturing Chemis^
531 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Wholesale by the Proprietor and all Wholesale Houses.
Established 185 S, By Post Ss. 6d.
Manufacturer of Dr. SOUTHAN’S GOUT and
RHEUMATIC PILLS.
13. C. L.
(0
VERY = OLD = SPECIAL
SCOTCH = WHISKY.
DISTILLERIES CO. (Limited).
THOMAS MCREERY:
S'EDICAL HERBALIST,
83 Oxford Street, i doors above Riley Street.
Private Diseases of Both Sexes a Speciality.
Consultations Gratis. Charges very Moderate.
A Tuial Solicited.
A SPEEDY CURE GUARANTEED.
ows
R
EMBROCATION
£
V \\SOLO if w
m


MedioaL
A NEVER E AILING CURE EOR ALL.
DISEASES OP THE NERVOUS SYSTEM.
~3^P’ e H,^ ith p uspens . 0 75 r Appliances from £l. 'O. 0 and
T^n'nT?r^ E 1 l ctric Magnetic Belt will cure
S geihmal Debility, Impotence,
|nd,all caused by indiscretion. Pains in the
g? c |t Lumbago, Giddiness, Rheumatism, Kidney and
complaints, and in fact any disease of the Nervous
fcystem. The currents are steady and constantly felt by
f ~ wearer. It has great improvements over all other
■pelts, we are willing to furnish those belts on 30 dava
itrial, and accept payment after they have proved them-
maT fZ h fL WS re .P reSent them to be - Those belts are
“f, ;!H - e specific purpose of producing a continuous,
mdd, soothing current of electricity through all the weak-
pvon P^ eSt r m " them to h® a lth and vigorous strength,
even the worst case permanently cured in three months.
An convenient to wear than any other Belt.
A Book illustrated, containing full information and testi-
monials from prominent people throughout Australia,
aafl informing persons how they may obtain these belts
without paying for them until they have proved them com-
petent to cure any disease of the Nervous System will be
postage 6 a t 0 any address 011 recei Pt of a2d stamp far
Address
VOLTAIC BELT COMPANY
Box 916, G. P. 0., Sydney.
Dr. J allies D„ XJeweliyn,
(registered)
SPECIALIST in
GENITO-UEINABT DISEASES,
May be CONSULTED at
-3 25 LONSDALE STREET—
(between Swanstem d Elizabeth Sts.J,
MELBOURN js.
Consulting Hours-10 to 2f7to 9. Sunday
Mornings. 10 to 11,
All Personal Consultations arc free; by letter the
Pee is £l, which is inclusive of medicines.
1801
Barry's
TriOTlienras
FOR
THE HAIR
mm
An elegant dress
ing.' exquisitely per
fumed removes all
, . Impurities from the
scalp, prevents baldness and grav hair, and
causes the hair;to Thick, 8 Soft and
* a , u . jo fallible for* curing eruptions
or thi) ftkin, diseases of the glands, muscles
and integuments, and relieving cutSj burns,
bruises, Sprains,: &c.
Barb's ¥©ari Cream
Imparts tp the darkest skin a clear natural
White, tinged with the faintest rose blush
p speedily-removes wrinkles, freckles, sun
burn and tail, and mantles the faded cheek
With youthful bloom and beautyl
Barry’s Hair > Bye.
> ut up in two forms, with and without
a preparation Without the preparation,
giadually colors the hair any shade desired
from a light brow o ' io a black With the
preparation, instantly colors tf\e hair a ua ;
lural jet black the moment It is applied,
Oaution~N one of these preparations geo-
nme without the trade mark of Barclat
® > New York, affixed to each bottle
A BLESSING IN EVERY FAMILY.
HOtf bow A Y’S PILLS AND OINTMENT,
there is not a country in the civilised world where
tne healing virtues of thes grand medicines have not been
recognised by thousands of sufferers. In all the ordinarv
ailments of humanity their beneficent action is at once
recognised. Fullest directions are supplied for their use
m every disease. IF YOU SUFFER, tl;y THE,\L Manu-
factured only at iC New Oxfohd-st., London, rib" p m .
chasers should look to the Label on the Boxes and Pots'
If the address is not 623 Oxford-street, London, thev are
spurious. ’ *
SHAN TEA HOUSE
NOW OPEN.
Quotig Tart .Sc Co.’s
EXTENSIVE NEW PREMISES
(Nearly opposite Theatre Royal).
FIRST-CLASS GRILLS,
As well as all kinds of Refreshments, may
be obtained from 7.30 a.m. to 11.30 p.m.
&
CUP OF DELICIOUS TEA.
ICED DRINKS OF ALL KINDS, Ac.
'rite rooms are splendidly furnished and
fitted up. In addition to the large and
well - appointed Refreshment Rooms,
gentlemen will find on the Second Floor
Commodious and Comfortable Smoking
mid Conversation Rooms, furnished with
Chess, Draughts, Ac., Ac.
TO THE LADIES.
On the First Floor will bo found Nice
R°°>n for Ladies, convenient for
W ntmg, Reading, Ac., also Retiring
Rooms and Lavatory, with both hot and
cold water laid on. Inspection Invited.
Finest Teas imported—Packets |lb. and
upwards supplied. Orders promptly at-
tended to.
Q
U
o
N
G
T
A
R
T
C
O
M
P
A
N
Y
137 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
Medical.
— ■ '• . ~
A WONDERFUL MEDICINE.
Beecham’s Pills
PATENT
PILLS.
Are universally admitted
to be worth a Guinea
a Box for bilious
and nervous disorders,
such as wind and pain in
the stomach, sick head-
ache, giddiness, fulness
and swelling after meals,
dizziness, and drowsiness.
Cold chills, flushings or
heat, loss of appetite,
shortness of breath, oos-
tiveness, scurvy, blotches
oh the skin, disturbed
Sleep, frightful dreams-,
and all nervous and treni-
bling seilsatiqns, <fec. The
first dose will give .relief
,in twenty minutes. Every
b » - th “
Worth a Guinea a Box.
ag F ° r ° f a8 ’ e 3 these Pills are invaluable,
brino- fc ! lem carry o,f al l humors, and
be wifi™/ 1 tha L ls re 3 ulre( h No female should
euml h Ut 110 lne( iioine to be found
obsfniotirm b pE LIIAM & PILLS for removing any
c6rd t , ot the system. If taken ac-
soon -,hh, t ! ie / I - 1 ’ e i° tlon t S B '!, ven wifch box they will
health f ? mal , es of all a ? es to sound and robus
trild then. be f» proved by thousands who hav
iheir use 1 ’ atl olind tbe benefits whieh are ensured b
of - l l?'i f- ''’? a! :, stonla ? 1 . I .', iln P a H' ed digestion and all disordei
be V they act like “ MAGIC,” and a few doses wi
or.rh« i! 7, "T k Wonders npon the most importan
wliolp - t? e hu ? lan machine. They strengthen th
hrino’ iwtwl a ’l system, restore the long-lost ooniplexioi
fiotVm-‘kh® been edge of appetite, and arouse into ac
-.the ROSEBUD of health the whole physic;
S -,1 l taWan a,lle - These are “PACTS” testifte
o?,p hf t 1 l T ¥ mem hers of all classes of society ;an
? tntr best guarantees to the nervous and debilitate!
ssssssssur the kre “‘ — oi -r i»t»
Beeoham’s Magic Cough Pills
As a remedy for Coughs in general, Asthma, Bronchia
Affections, Hoarseness, Shortness of Breath, Tightneg
and. Oppression of the Chest, Wheezing, &c., these Pill
stand unrivalled. They are the best ever offered to th
pubhc mid will speedily remove that sense of oppression
and difficulty of breathing which nightly deprive th
patient of rest. Let any person give Beecham’s Cougi
iiLLS a trial and the most violent Cough will in
short time be removed.
1 1 epared only and sold wholesale and retail by the pro
pnetor, Thomas Beecham, Chemist, St. Helens, Lancashire
England, in boxes at Is. IJd. and 2s. 9d. each.—Sold hi
all Druggists and Patent Medicine Dealers everywhere.
N.B.—Full directions are given with each box;
Prof. E. T. SELBY
Is considered to be the most Successful Practi
tioner in the Australian colonies. All sufferer
should read the Doctor’s most unique work oi
Nervous, Private and other Diseases. The
Advice oh Marriage is worth its weight In gold
Send your full address, and we will send (pos
free) One Copy. Write to Prof. R. T. SELBY
Cleveland Street, Surry Hill, SYDNEY.
EPPS’S
GEATEFDL—COMFORTING
COCOA.
Dii. WestoolT'S aMenorrhcea
PILLS for Ladies, when taken for a few
days before, quickly correct all irregularities
from whatever cause arising ; 2s. 9d. and 4s. 6d.,
by post 3s. and ss. W. H. SOUL and CO., 190
Pitt-street, Sydney, Agents,
Musical,
INGHAM’S
PATENT SCALE INSTRUCTOR
t'Oh IHR -
PUPILS can obtain the above at once, and the best
way to illustrate its usefulness to them is to sup-
pose a man to live to be a hundred years old and never
to have seen a Piano, he would, with five minutes’
instruction, be able to play the most difficult Major and
Minor Scales on the instrument.
Miscellaneous.
PC. NICHOLLS & Co.,
WHOLESALE
Confectioners & Pastrycooks*
Cuff BuildiNgS:
736 G-eorge Street, 736
HA YMABKET.
Steam Works :
617, 619, 621, 539, 541 HARRIS STREET.
Wedding Cakes, &c., Made to Order.
WALTER HOPE,
General Merchant & Commission Agent,-
199 SUSSEX STREET, SYDNEY.
C CONSIGNMENTS of all Produce, Live Stock, etc.,
1 received and realised in the best markets. Account
Sales and Proceeds remitted the day after sale. Orders
executed for all Goods from Sydney at Lowest Wholesale
Prices
Spkciamtt.— Pure-bred and Pedigree Stock of all de-
scriptions Bought or Soon ox Commission. All communi-
cations referring to Pure-bred Poultry and Eggs for Setting
to be addressed as usual to WALTER HOPE, Bonnyrigg
Prize Poultry Farm, Liverpool, N.S.W.
QPECIAL NOTICE.— The Sydney Bulletin.
kT Tasmanian Edition Publishers, FITZ-
GERALD BROS. Subscription (payable strictly
in advance), Six Shillings and Sixpence per quar-
ter, or One Pound per annum.
The Him letin will ho on Sale every Friday at
die Olllce, George Street. Launceston, or from the
Runners in the street.
Business Announcements,
The bank of new Zealand,
Sydney Branches;
64 PITT STREET, and 538 GEORGE STREET.
Paid-up Capital £1,125,000
Th® Bank has Agents in all the principal cities
throughout the United States of America and
Canada, and can offer special facilities for dealing
in Bullion, Bills of Exchange, Commercial and
iravellers’ Letters of Credit.
Drafts issued and Bills collected on most favour-
able terms, at rates which can be ascertained on
application.
N. F. GIBLIN, Manager.
— . ..
Srl.O£a,cl. ! DE&oslcA! I
Hi
“THE BULLETIN’S”
,story of Botany Bay.
By Arthur GaylL
Profusely Illustrated by The Bulletin’s well-
' known Artists,
L. HOPKINS and PHIL MAY.
HP**! ce
- One SUxLllix&g?
Per post, Is. 3d.
- Wholesale Agents:
Victoria: A. Benjamin, 321 Little Collins-st., Melbourne
elbourne : Gordon & Gotch.
irisb'ane: J. H. Thompson, Bookseller, George-street.
Adelaide; Neville & Co.
Tasmanian: Fitzgerald Bros., George-street, Launceston.
£2- HILDER,
BOOT UPPER MANUFACTURER
IMPORTER OP
ENGLISH AND FOREIGN LEATHER,
Elastic Web, Grindery, Ac.,
Wholesale and Retail Leather Merchant
539 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
B.
RITTENBERG & CO.
IMPORTERS,
81 Clarence St., Wynyarrt Square.
Furniture , Mirrors , Oleographs, and Mouldings.
J. SITTERLIN,
from pYris,
Ladies' Hairdresser, Wigmaker, Si Perfumer,
25 SYDNEY ARCADE, SYDNEY.
HISTORICAL AND FANCY HAIRDRESSING A
SPECIALTY.
Manufacturer, op All Kinds op Theatrical
and Street Wigs.
Anunonlated Quinine,
The most efficient Hair Lotion, to prevent prema-
ture baldness.
Sitterlin’s Vegetable Hair-dye,
The only Hair-dye in the colonies to restore Light
Hair to its natural colour. All shades.
Suooe ss | G-uarautee d. |
J.''* • :-'>V
MANUFACfURING HATTERS
GEORGE STREET
SYDNEY
IMPORTERS Of AUTRE
NEWEST SHAPES.
And at ALBERT STREET, BRISBANE.
w
AUCH'S
m
re.
THE BEST
IN THE WORLD
• m
wmm
••• ,
«Ml/'
r^asss
- - ...
V^tsSsS
l;/
anamnwC
Business Announ cements.
THREE GREAT LIGHTS!
The Needles Patent Gas-making Machine;
* I l ® a iv' rG Y a tent Safety Kerosene Lamp;
And the New Era Portable Gas Lamp.
The Harvey Lamp has been adopted by the
Kail way Commissioners for lighting the Sydney
trams. We were awarded the Highest Order of
Merit and Special Mention by experts at the
late Melbourne Exhibition for our lighting
mediums. Over 6000 Harvey Lamps are in use
in this colony, and for all lighting purposes are
giving universal satisfaction. These Lamps can
be seen on one of the North Shore ferry-boats,
and are suitable for all classes of vessels. The
Inventor offers £2OO to anyone producing as good
a Kerosene Burner.
Patentees for Australasia;
H. T. Smith & Co.* 494 Kent St. South, Sjfdngjf}
14 Arcade* Adelaide, S.A.Argent Street, tißbkteN Hthbf
Parkside Iron Works* Melbourne
-THE-
Art Furnishing Warehouse;
BEARD, WATSON I CO.,
361 George Street, SYDNEY,
Direct attention to their Magnificent Stock of
Carpets, Floorcloths, Linoleums,
And other Fluor Coverings , in the
NEWEST DESIGNS A ARTISTIC COLOURINGS.
Akt Decorations, Upholstery Work and
Window Draping a Speciality
All Orders, executed hy a Staff of Experienced
Workmen, and, Special Attention given to the carry -
ing out of Customers' wishes with punctuality and
promptitude.
Hotels.
PFAHLBRT’S HOTEL,
v SYDNEY, N.S.W.,
Opposite the Park, Wynyard Squares
(Under New Management.)
rpHIS for 25 years well-known First-class Central .Hotel,
x recently thoroughly renovated throughout, has every
comfort and attention of a home. The Cuisine Department
is under competent French supervision. Dining Room
open for Non-Residents. Open-air Recreation Garden.
A well-ventilated Billiard Room adjoining Recreation
Ground (three Alcook’s, best Tables), under the manage-
ment of A, Buckingham, late of Empire Hotel. Wines
and Spirits of the very best quality only, Sind the Finest
and Coolest Bar in Town
HOT AND COLD BATHS,
NIGHT POUTER. French 'j
German I
Telephone No. 150. Italian I
Spoken
SPECIAL SUITES FOR FAMILIES.
CHAS. HEC'HT ... Manager.
■WJE3S$ a X'S33E : II?g - HOTEL,
Wamiambool, Victoria.
THIS old-established and well-known Family
and Commercial Hotel combines all the
requirements of a First-Class Hotel with home
comforts.
It is in full view of the sea and within a short
distance Of the picturesque scenery of the Hopkin’s
Rivet, Which affords tire finest Rod and Fly Fishing
in the colony.
Arrangements made for the Hite of Rowing and
Fishing Boats and Fishing Tackle. Bait, etc'.,
supplied. R3T Good Shooting in the immediate
neighbourhood.
It is also within Two Minutes’ walk of the Hob
and Cold Sea Water Baths, which are unsur-
passed in the colonies.
livery and letting Stables.
Booking Office for Cobb & Co.’s Coaches. Thos.
Cook & Sons’ Hotel Coupons taken.
GrEORG-E W. CLARE - Proprietor,
THE GEORGE HOTEL
(opposite Railway Station, near Baths),
St. Kilda, Victoria.
First-class Family & Commercial Hotel.
O’ -For particulars, apply to
DE*. ■VS7’I3^E3E : »OX«DES,
PROPRIETOR.
O Y A L HOTEL,
Esplanade,
ST. KILDA, VICTORIA,
Facing Beach, close to Pier and Baths,, Ten
minutes from Station.
H. MOONEY .... Proprietor.
LIVERY LETTING STABLES ATTACHED.
Telephone 682.
First-class Accommodation for Visitors
XjONG’S imperial hotel.
TOOWOOM BA, QUEENSLAN D.
Acknowledged the Best Hotel on the Darling
Downs. Eirst-class Accommodation.
Private Suites First ( lass Sample Itoonis.
Conveyance Meets Every Train.
JOHN LONG - - Late of New sHaland.


SHEVILL & CO.,
Corner Queen Street and Flinders Lane,
MELBOURNE.
mercantile auctioneers.
House, Land, and Estate Agents,
. o
. : ‘i.
m m
/
m
a
ii
k
i
m
m
Advances made against shipments of Merchandise
and Colonial Produce.
Daily Sales held at their Commodious
New Rooms.
OUTDOOR
Furniture & Land Sales Conducted.
Branch
Offices
f 32 Chapel St., Prahran.
I 2 Albert St., Windsor.
Branch
Offices
■'V I U E S,
IMPORTER OF
SP I IK» XT S 7 x IB IE IE IR S, x ETC.,
George and Gipps Streets, Sydney.
SPECIALITIES:
John Jameson’s Dublin Whisky (5 to 10 years old); W. Jameson’s, Ddnville’s Roe’s and Wise’s (old Cork) Whiskies
HbnnkssY’s, Kartell’s and Sazbrac’s Brandies (5, 10, 15 and 21 years old).
The Choicest and Oldest SCOTCH WHISKIES (in wood), Imported and Bottled by P.R.L.
®»e Best Port and Sherry Wines and Champagnes, All Brands of Oblonial Wines. The' leading brand;
of Bottled Ale and Stout, arriving by monthly steamers.
Prince of Wales Hotel, 778 & 780 George Street.
anil jingle Bottle Bcpantments, 28% anil 7 /M Syflnpy.
SEND FOR A PRICE LIST.
FIRST-CLASS LADIES’ REFRESHMENT ROOM & LAVATORY,
GIPPS 6TRBET (Opposite A. Hordern & Sons.)
)x(
Produce Stores, Gipps St,, and DarlingEurst Hoad,
HEAD OFFICE; GIPPS STREET (Next Prince of Wales Hotel).
ALLAGH BROS
KTES-W
FURNITURE
WAREHOUSES,
York Street, Wynyard Square, Sydney,
Now supply the General Public as well as the Trade.
10,000 Bedsteads,
From, IDs. 6cl. -tea £35.
w
: i
Hf
"»
egp
I'M
3S
•>-
lm
W&
MSSiia
iIS
||||l
w
MiTo
'■/.: ■:.
Ay CTIOWEERS ESTATE ACEHTS
II JL nr ]L J 3 13 G 0.,
General Auctioneers and Estate Accents,
335 Collins Street, Melbourne, and 14 Chapel
Street, South Yarra.
Free Prescriptions
Are to be found in the “ Idght and Id fed
for tlie Speedy Cure of Nervous Debility and
Kindred Diseases, &c. A copy of this book will
be sent Free, sealed, for Six Penny Stamps.
Address —
S. WARD & CO., SYDNEY PHARMACY,
70 HUNGER STREET, SYDNEY.
tr,
FRY’S
•lint uojaaiiune
Knowlev l*iinips
MINING & HYDRAULIC ENGINEERS
AND
GENERAL MACHINERY MERCHANTS,
&c., &cs. 9 <Sco.
187 & 139 CBarence Street,
SYDNEY, 3XT.S.W.
And SAN FRANCISCO, CALIFORNIA.
Kin k Brcakm.
f ■ xp;
Wesdnsjliousic Engine*.
Hay St., Haymarket, Sydney,
ENGINES,
2 to 50 H.P.
BOILERS,
1 to 35 H.P.
STEAM PUMPS
For all purposes.
mmm pumps,
2" to 40" discharge.
HAND PUMPS.
Saw Benches.
Xad.-tla.eei.
mi mmi
&C,, &o.
■.
M
m
m
Jp 1 ’:: C 7&£r : *‘ i
WINDING SEINES,
Hauling Engines.
Battery Engines.
Saw-mill Engines.
FIONE-ia ENGINES,
ENGINES
FOR
Electrjc Lighting.
Vortical Boilers.
Multitubular Boilers,
< OICMS|| noiI.CKS.
&c., &0.
We invite al those requiring Machinery of any kind for any purpose, large or small, to write for particulars and prices. From the extent of our stock we are generally able to give immediate delivery.
Visitors, whether buyers or ir t, are always welcome to inspect the magnificent display in our new and extensive Showrooms,
12 131, 13 0 & 135 H-A.Y STR33BT, ati A. TST 33tflC A. JFI IE 3E3 T, S 8 Y 33 3XT HE! Y.
