

BALDWIN DRY AIR REFRIOERATOR.
Beware of the many so-called Dry Air Refrigerators advertised by unscrupulous and Dealers, intending
to deceive the public and trade upon our reputation. This is the original and celebrated Dry Air Refrigerator, made
famous by its successful competition at the leading Exhibitions in the United States for the past Six Years, known as
the Baldwin Dsy Air Refrigerator.
WHITE MOUNTAIN FREEZERS, ICE MILK CANS, MIXERS,
LEMOKT SQUEEZERS, &0.,
&o.
Sz ZE^ig'g 1 ,
512 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
r [MLE COLONIAL MUTUAL LIFE ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED.
BRANCHES THROUGHOUT THE COLONIES AND THE UNITED KINGDOM.
Policies issued under the Ordinary, Adodifiecl Tontine and Mortuary Dividend System,
Tlie MUTUAL STORE, Limited,
Opposite the FUNDEES STBEET TEEMINUS, MEEBOUENE.
The advantage* of the Mutual Store are now offered to the general public, and Visitors to Melbourne will hare all their requirements supplied from Ofe*
The following are the Departments of the Store :-Grocery and Dressed PwmsioM. Poultry and Game. Grain and Fuel. Wine, Beer and Spirits. Stationery and Fancy Good*. Iron-
inongery : General Furnishing and Electroplate. Boots and Shoe*. Woollen* and Tailoring. Gentlemen’s Mercery. Furniture and Carpets. China and Glass. Dranerr • General TT»wnorw
and Gloves. Millinery and Dressmaking. Mantles. Underclothing. Silks and Dresses. Manchester. '
*3T Refreshment Rooms, where Light Luncheon and Afternoon Tea are provided. Well-appointed Broughams, Victorias, Waggonettes, etc., from Company’s own Livery Stable*
on Hire by Hour, Day, Week or Month. 7
Special attention i» paid to Countbt and Station Osdkbs. Cass Jubtomuls removing (heir own Good* are entitled to a Discount of 8 per cent. Open to the Public for Cash Purchases.
ALLAN A. MARSHALL Sc CO.,
EMomu, OoitMMBJM, Bum am Bau. Foctwkm,
Fiuishem, Plumbers, Ship b Ooo«r*J Smith*,
aA«iiTt*fc», Art b Midi jetal Uital Wokkiki
KOLLEB SKATES (any mats) with BKASS or WOODEN WHEELS.
— -{)-—
Verllf'■ Oae Fins*, Heaton and Ventilators at greatly Reduced Priaee— ll,6oo Fires already in nse.
Importers and Manufacturen of Diving Gear, Yaeht and Boat Work erf every description ia
Iron or Brato, Stipe’ Single and Double Action Valve Closets, Fire Hydrants, Hot# and aU apphsnoee.
Bon Accord Works, O Mscqnaria Place, Sydney.
THE
Wolseley Sheep-Shearing* Machine.
PASTORA LISTS are notified that, to avoid disappointment,
no time should be lost in Booking Orders for next Season.
Agents: J. H. GED D E S & C 0.,
19 PHILLIP STREET, SYDNEY.
• •
highly r^uiKiriVE
MAY BE OBTAINED IN LABELLED TINS 08 PACKETS THRfTLIGHOUr I HE COLONY.
(MM I
GET
O
IZ.
i
i 4
*
is
$
r/:
m.
A
m
L & S
v>
%5
1
The LONDON & SYDNEY TEA COMPANY,
409 KENT STREET (Two Doors from Market Stre«t\ SYDNEY,
IMPORT—
SIG H-C Xi S 3 lInTDIAU &o
TEAS
Pocked in 201 b. and 401 b. Packages, and delivered at Is. 6d., Is, 9d. amd 2ft pe* lb.
(Carriage Free) to any Railway Station or Port in Ife* So«N» Wak*.
A Single Package at Wholesale Price. Correspondence krited asd promptly attended t*.
The Belletin
Yol. 10—No. 517.]
[Saturday, January 11, 1890.


TOBACCO
9H
DIXSOPSONS
awg
'P
*
0
o
X
fa.
o
V
yovrc
SIR ROGER
--■■■
C 3
m
DIXSONS
Dr. RIDGE'S
FOOD
FOE INFANTS AND INVALIDS
an enormous sale in England
and Is now toeing introduced into the
Colonies.
■very Storekeeper should get a supply
as every Wise mother will certainly
use It.
JXSL RIDGE’S ROYAL FOOD MILLS,
LONDON, ENGLAND.
JUDIKS;
w.
BROWN’S
SATIN
POLISH
-FOB-
LADIES' AND CHILDREN'S
BOOTS AND SHOES.
Awarded highest honors at
Phil*., 1870
Berlin, 1877
Paris. 1878
Melbourne, 1890
Frankfort, 1881
Anurterd’m 1888
New Orleans, 1884-86, and wherever
exhibited.
Paris medal on every MS*
Beware of Imitation*.
This Blacking: is in liquid form and is applied to those
or other articles of leather by means of a sponge, attached
to the oork by a wire, so that the blacking oan be used by
anyone without soiling the fingers. No polishing brash
is required. It dries immediately after being applied, aad
will not soil the most delicate clothing.
Sold largely la Australia through Commission Merchants
and .Dealer*.
B. r. SHOWN ft CO.,
Boston. U.8.A.. MTgfc
B.
BITTENBEBQ & 00.
IMPORTBRB,
81 Clarence St., Wynyard Square.
Furniture, Mirrora, OUografkh and MeuUHxff*
ATKINSON’S
ENGLISH PERFUMERY
surpasses all others for its natural
fragrance.
A-Ticxisrsoisps
QUININE HAIR LOTION,
Unsurpassed for promoting the growth
and improving the appearance of the
hair, guaranteed perfectly harmless.
ATKINSON’S
FLORIDA WATER,
An exceptionally fine Perfume for
the Handkerchief, distilled from the
choicest exotics.
Of aU Dealers and of the Manufacturers
J. & E. ATKINSON,
24, OLD BOND STREET, LONDON.
Trade Mark-"White Roe.' 1 on "Golden A
Lyre,” with A-ddreee in full.
T. LAWLESS, June.,
87 MABKET BTEEET,
SYDNEY,
Insure Youb Health Against All Risks
—*T TAKING—
Kruse's Fluid Magnesia .
It Cook ill© Blood, Promotes a Healthy Flow of the Secretions
Ami Fortifies the System against the Shafts of Disease,
n* But Aperient Tor Children. Numerous Gold Medals.
BtJPEHIOR to all OTHERS I
(Vide Medical Teathnonials, Analysis, &0., accompanying each Bottle.)
x x
—TAKE ONLY KRUSE’S —
Sold in Bottles at Is. 3d., 2s. 6d., 3s. 6d. Each.
Wholesale Agents: Messrs. ELLIOTT Bros., Ltd
CLARENDON HOTEL, MANLY,
The Brighton of New South Wales.
AT the CLARENDON HOTEL, Banquets, Suppers, Private Dinners, Evening Parties, etc., are
served on the Shortest Notice in the Large Dining Hall. Besides having a most rcchercM
Dinner you can enjoy from the balconies the magnificent view of the sea and surrounding country;
here also you can have good company, good wines—in fact, everything that can possibly make one
comfortable can be found at this really first-class hotel. Fishing and Picnic Parties provided. Table
de H6te at One o’clock daily and Sundays. No expense is spared by Mrs, Kilminstek to make her
visitors comfortable and her Hotel the best in the colony.
TW-fB Tg-TT.iwmXTS'X'Birt. Clarendon Hotel,
Opposite OCEAN BEACH, MANLY.
JOECKT BXJCKHAM,
419 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
Tarpaulins, Woo f Dray and Waggon Cover*
or oiled), Canvas Water Bottles, Coolers, Whim
Horse Rugs, Nose Bags, Oiled Loin Cloths. Send
at
4.49 ELIZABETH STREET, MELBOURNE
(Oldest Established House in the Trade).
SURVEYORS TENTS A SPECIALITY.
Tents,
(greased
Buckets,
to hr call
68 Hunter Street, and 8 BUgh Street,
SYDNEY.
:p. sheoedeb
LIVERY, BAIT, LET-OUT AND COMMIS-
SION STABLES.
Horses end Vehicles of every description for
Sale or Hire; also, good reliable Ladies or Gentle-
men's Hacks.
W XXiLiIAM CARGILL,
Photographic Stock Importer,
2 6 MARKET STREET, SYDNEY.
CliAlW'*Ti®R®S* I4W
\\s
'0
V.
D
vl>
Vl/
m
e
L
mi
&
o
ES
FF
Victoria.
Chaffey Irrigation Offices, Swanstcn Street.
.. South Australia.,
_Cavendish Chambers, Grenfell Streef.
J. E. Mathew Vincent,! Chief Commissioner)
Cornwall Buildings, 35 Queen Victoria Sf.
UOM do N E C-
Ws«.i
PRINCE OF WALES’ HOTEL,
B~t. Kilcla, Victoria.
WltWn Five Minutes from STATION, and One Minute from ESPLANADE and BATES.
MBS. KONO MENQ ... ... ... Proprietress.
LEA & PERRINS'
■ *
sauce
Purchasers should see that the Label on every bottle of the original
WORCESTERSHIRE SAUCE
bears the Signature, thus :
a.
Ask for Lea & Perrins’ Sauce, and see Name on Wrapper, Label, Bottle and StoppW.
Wholesale and for Export by the Proprietors , Worcester; Crosse $ P lack well, London,
and by Grocers and Oilmen throughout the World.
-Everyone should Read-
“ HISTORY of BOTANY BAY,
By ARTHUR GtATSTXJL..
Profusely Illustrated by » The Bulletin’s” well-known Artists, L. Hopkins and PHI May.
Price
- ONE SHILLING; ’ per Post, Is. J
May be had from Agents, or direct from “ The Bulletin ” Office.
a „_ NTa Victorian :A. Benjamin, 321 Little Collins Street East, Melbourne ; Tasmanian : Fitzgerald Brothers. George
agents— Launceston; Queensland: J. H. Thompson, George Street. Brisbane,


The Belletin
Vol. 10- No, 517.
SATURDAY, JANUARY 11, 1890.
Price, 6d.
'thf >
IT WAS SUCH A LITTLE ONE!
EMIGRATION OFFICER (to Anglo-Celesti a who has ju st ret urned from avisit to China): "I SAY, YOU KNOW I CAN'T LET THREE CHINESE LAND FROM THIS SHIP.
SHE IS ONLY ALLOWE D TO CARRY TWO.
ANGLO-CEKESTUAK: "NO SAVEE! ONE CHINEE TO EVERY 500 TONS. THIS SHIP IS 1463 TONS-CARRY TWO CHINEE AND ONE HALF: YOU NO CALL
THAT KID MORE THAN HALF CHINA MAN?"


The Belletin
The Monal Australian newspaper.
“ Australia fok the Australians.
Proprietors : BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO.,
Limited,
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 24 Pitt-street, Sydney, New South W ales.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(payable in advance, only).
per Annum ... ... ••• ®
Half-yearly ® ®
Quarterly ® ®
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
io be addressed to William Macleod, Managing Ducctoi.
Literary Communications to be addressed to J. F.
Archibald.
The Editor will carefully read and acknowledge in the
“ Correspondence ” column all contributions submitted
whether in the form of Political, Social, or other Articles,
Verse, Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in
length, or say 3000 words, are specially acceptable).
Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper-Clippings. All
communications will be regarded as strictly confidential.
« The Bulletin” will return all unavailable MSS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we
desire those sending MSS. to distinctly understand that
we are not responsible for the preservation or transmission
of such MSS.
NOTICE.
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty Shillings
sterling—which you may pay by Post Office Order, One
Pound Note, or Stamps of any Australian colony—you
can have The Bulletin posted regularly to you every week
for a year.
This offer is not open to residents of Sydney. In that
city The Bulletin is not delivered by mail, but is entirely
in the hands of our carriers, with whom ice do not wish
to interfere.
SATURDAY, JANUARY 11, 1890.
The Single-Taxer’s Mistake.
The earnest, energetic, and exceedingly
noisy association known as the Single-Tax
League has been carried entirely off its feet
since the campaign between Freetrade and
Protection in New South Wales inclined, to
the amazement and dismay of the Parkesite
party, towards the National cause. So long
as the Nationalists seemed but a handful,
and the Foreign-trade chiefs could go to
battle with a contemptuous conviction that
they had only to appear and conquer, the
Single-taxers struggled in vain to emerge
from obscurity and neglect. They were
regarded and treated as a neglectable quan-
tity. The Social Purity Society, or the
Anglo-Israelites, were allotted just as much
attention. The Orange Organisation and
the Good Templars were held in much
higher consideration by party managers.
But when it was discovered that the
Nationalists had so grown in strength that
they were only repulsed with extreme
difficulty at the last general election, and
when the knowing-ones on the anti-National
side perceived that the next encounter with
an adversary which gained strength as time
elapsed, would probably result in a defeat,
even the smallest help was welcomed with
a semblance of cordiality that was all
the more ardent in view of the circum-
stance that in the next engagement neither
the Orange Order nor the Temperance
organisations were to be depended upon
for a block vote. The spirit of Nationalism
had become too widely diffused and had
awakened men of all sorts and conditions
to a new sense of their paramount duty.
Hence the sudden countenance conceded
to the Single-Taxers by the Foreign-trade
managers,
* # *
Just as the special weekly organ of the
Single-Taxers was expiring of inanition due
to insufficient circulation and inadequate
support, the Foreign-trade daily journals of
the metropolis threw their columns open to
the journalistically homeless ones. It should
here be noted that the decadence of the
special organ could not at all be attributed
to any lack of ability on the part of its
conductors and contributors. It was an
ably-written periodical. The transference
of the productions of its contributors and
staff to the columns of the daily press
was a huge advantage to the cause. Thou-
sands now were confronted with the Single-
Tax propaganda who previously had never
heard of it. The Sydney dailies—the Tele-
graph especially—lavished space upon the
apostles of the Georgian cult, because they
taught Freetrade as a sort of off-set from
their principal tenet. It is indeed an in-
convenient sort of Freetrade which those
zealots teach, but still the inconvenient
aspects could be editorially softened down,
or by a give-and-take mutual understanding
kept subordinated by the writers as a con-
sideration for the indulgence shown them.
By this concurrence of needs and oppor-
tunities the Single-Tax theory has achieved
a prominence which cannot fail to be
gratifying to the little group of doctrinaires
who work it—a prominence entirely dispro-
portioned to the practical significance of the
movement. The Single-Taxers have been
quite carried away by their fortuitous dis-
tinction and conceive that they are marching
in great force to victory. Sweet and inno-
cent delusion. The fly on the wheel was
not more naively mistaken. The Single-
Taxers, by themselves, were impotent at the
general election to return a single represen-
tative to Parliament—one single represen-
tative out of of 137. The only two men who
ever talk Single-Tax in the Legislature are
invariably smiled at when they do. The
cult have attached themselves by a magnifi-
cent effort of consistency and of unconscious
self-immolation to the Tories of blew South
Wales. They know that the official Free-
traders intend merely to make use of them,
until they shall have served their turn.
But, with the sauguineness of true visionaries
they flatter themselves that such a consum-
mation will not so readily be achieved. The
advantages conceded to them for diffusing
their gospel will, they believe, be so fruit-
ful of results that should the day arrive
when the Freetraders, having definitely
triumphed over the National party, will
attempt to throw over the Single-Taxers,
the latter will, by accretions of converts and
disciples, have grown too strong to be thus
disposed of. The calculation is, we conceive,
radically defective. In the first place it
assumes that the Foreign-trade party will
effect a definite conquest and reduce the
Nationalists of New South Wales to the
subjection of hopeless impotence. This
seems, to speak with all reserve, a very san-
guine presumption. It leaves, moreover,
out of consideration the possibility of the
National cause, even if beaten in the one
province of New South Wales, being vic-
torious in Federated Australia. But, apart
from that, even should the assumption that
the progress of Protection in New South
Wales —so rapid during the last few years—
will be presently checked, be realised, the
next assumption is just as risky.
* * *
When the component and the controlling
fractions which, combined, constitute the
Freetrade party in New South Wales are
investigated, it is tolerably clear that the
purely Conservative element is exceedingly
potent therein. The propertied and wealthy
class is very unequally divided. So unequally,
indeed, that it might be stated without any
real unfairness that the holders of realised
wealth are to a man on the Freetrade side.
It is to this circumstance that Freetrade
owes its bare escape from ruinous defeat at
the last general election. It is on this that
it bases its only hope of salvation at the next.
The National cause is—as has ordinarily been
the case in all struggles where Liberty and
Progress had to contend against entrenched
Power and Privilege—hampered by lack of
the sinews of war. The Foreign-trade camp,
on the contrary, possesses them in compara-
tive abundance. But that very abundance
should serve as a warning to the Single-
Taxers. It is disbursed, almost without
exception, from purses distended with the
wealth derived from real estate.
# * *
The Single-Taxers may be correct enough
in supposing that just at present the Free-
trade party cannot exist without them.
Unless an extraordinary change has occurred,
without any apparent cause and without any
outward indication, in the current of the
popular mind, Protection is advancing
towards ultimate success, and the Freetrade
party cannot afford to dispense with any
support whatever. That party just now
could not afford to neglect the proffered co-
operation of Garden Honey or of the
Mormons of New South Wales. But should
the day ever arrive when Protection ceased
to be a formidable foe, the position of the
little band of enthusiasts would be an ex-
ceedingly desperate one. It would be they
who would lack the sinews of war. The
Freetrade organs -would close their columns
against them with an angry snap, in lieu of
indulgent silence, or non-committing pats on
the back. The whole artillery of sneer,
misrepresentation, suppression, distortion
and calumny, at present levelled against
Protectionists, would be volleyed daily in
leading articles, paragraphs and correspon-
dents’ lucubrations against the Georgites.
If, as seems unlikely, the latter ever suc-
ceeded in making head against this feu
d’enfer, sufficiently to stand a campaign, the
preponderance of the sinews of war in favour
of their antagonists would utterly transcend
anything of the kind which has operated
against the Protectionists. The wealthy
class has entered the league against Protec-
tion less from any clear conviction that its
privileges would be affected by the intro-
duction of that system, than from the merely
instinctive repugnance to change which is
natural to those who have done well for
themselves under any existing conditions.
Of those who have acquired wealth in New
South Wales, many have made their money
as importers. The rest have made money
“ as things are,” and they naturally perceive
no advantage and fear some detriment from
any change of conditions.
# * ♦
But let the very sources of superfluous
wealth be assailed directly, as the Single-
Taxei's declai’e their system attacks them, the
whole camp of the propertied classes will be
ixx agitation forthwith. The stir iix a distux’bed
hornet’s nest would be a xxxild agitatioxx con-
trastedwith the fury which would then be ex-
hibited. It Would not then be one Burdekin
who would with carefully regulated hand
open his purse-strings. The Coopers, the
Wentworths, the Fairfaxes, the Tysons,
the Berrys, the whole host of the xnil-
lionaires, the banking capitalists, all squat-
terdom to a man, every selector who had his
bit of freehold, would imagine that a direct
attack oxx his pocket had commenced, and, like
a nation threatened .with invasion and spolia-
tion, they would tax themselves freely, even
severely, to avert the seeming ruin in which
conquest would involve them. Allowing for
the greatest conceivable gains to the Single-
Tax party by proselytism up to the time of the
inevitable breach, four-fiftlxs of the present
Freetrade party would oppose them, and
those four-fifths would include the whole of
the present wealthy adherents to that cause.
Nothing short of fatuousness can blind
the Single - Taxers to the absurd hol-
lowness of their present position. They
have deliberately cut themselves off
from any hope of support from the Pro-
tectionists should the latter be routed. They
have declared that belief in Protection is ixx-
compatible with the Single-Tax cult. This
is true enough. The fatal error of the
Single-Taxers was made when they departed
from their original broad programme of
Land Nationalisation and thereby cut them-
selves asunder from at least half their re-
sources. They have specialised their remedy
in blind obsequiousness to the chief modern
exponent of the evils they desire to remedy.
Had they possessed more original vigour of
mind and exercised a capacity for applying
to the conditions actually existing in Aus-
tralia a remedy adequate and appropriate,
instead of adopting with servile docility a
drastic cure adapted only to societies ixx
quite a different stage of development, some
chance of success might have attended their
efforts. As they have managed their crusade,
they have, according to our impression,
wantonly destroyed their prospects and
placed themselves inextricably ixx the some-
what contemptible plight of being used as
catspaws by people who flatter their vanity,
have no true perception of their honesty,
and laugh secretly at their infatuation.
The Problem of Poverty.
Dear Bulletin, —Every student of life; every-
one who has wandered even carelessly through
cities like Lyons or Naples, much more Paris
or London, must have been struck with one
aspect of this problem. I am not at present
concerned with the whole problem. I do not
mean to treat of mere destitution. I have
often seen broken-down old women, peevish,
ignorant, whose labour none would buy. For
them, work-houses, beadles, enforced contribu-
tions of unwilling tax-payers. I have also seen
(with the mind’s eye) millions of Hindoos earning
threepence a day. They live in extemporised
huts, wash frequently, work as much as is good
for them, eat millet, and do without clothes,
doctors, insurance, tobacco, alcohol, and all such
superfluities. They are all right, and I care no
more for them than for the sleek squirrels that flit
through the branches of a beechea wood. But in
great cities I have seen immense numbers of
families working hard all day, amid insanitary
conditions, and paid in money a wage which they
consider too small. Their appearance excites pro-
found pity (note this difference between them and
the Hindoo) while their work is skilled and the
products of their labour expensive, so that they
have a primd facie reason to ask for more pay. I
shall state my question thus Why cannot the
skilled labourers get a wage which shall bear som e
apparent proportion to the value of theri produce ?
# * *
It will be proper first to clear up a certain hazi-
ness in our minds by asking what remuneration do
they really get ? This can only be done by making
comparisons, with other poor, in other walks of
life. In money the poorest London artizans
receive from 2s. per day up. I do not now treat
of men in regular employ. I know that bakers
get about 45., and carters, masons, plumbers
more than that. I am alluding to the miserable in-
habitants of sweaters’ dens who live in filthy lairs,
with no sanitary arrangements. I suppose three
or four men could rent a sort of kennel for Is. a
week. They lie on sacks of straw. Bread re-
quires no cooking, and they can live on it. A
41b. loaf, price about Bd., will keep a man two
days. They have no pleasures. What is their
complaint? They say they want more money.
Why ? The Esquimaux has no grievance, though
his hut is even filthier and his food worse. The
Hindoo, with his clean house, has no better food.
Yet he does not complain. Do these London
poor really detest their filthy lairs? I believe
not. The universal testimony of landlords is that
the poor are like hens, and prefer to crowd in
small rooms and stew in their own grease. Give
them water, and no precaution will prevent them
misusing it in every conceivable way and devising
the most ingenious plans to steal the lead and
brass fittings. Give them “ conveniences ” and
they defile them. The beastly habits of all classes,
even in New South Wales, except the very elect,
may be surmised by anyone who will ask the
landlord of a country hotel what use his bath is
put to. Scarcely one visitor in a year washes in
it. Bushmen wash their boots and leggings in it;
once a week the landlady “baths” her children,
if she has any under ten years old. The house-
maids (take the ghastly typhoid-story of that hotel
“up the line”) use it, and also the very water-
tanks, as a common sink and sewer. The habits
of the London poor cannot be described in these
pages. They and their lungs are tolerant of
air loaded with putrescent organic matter. And
their clothing ? Rags. But bushmen here are
happy in similar attire; nay, I have seen young
English “ gentlemen ” working sheep in apparel
worse than that used by the London poor. They
would frequently wash their rags in a creek, mend
them, and go to work again. They said quite
simply that their clothes were suitable. I
will now consider their food. They get bread.
Is not that enough? An American named
Thoreau, highly cultured and very obser-
vant, once got tired of “ society,” and, borrow-
ing an axe, built a house, and lived on rye-meal
baked with water. He describes it all in a book
called “ Walden,” price to-day Is., which every
student of sociology should read and ponder. He
got money by growing beans, at which ho worked
when he chose. He was warm, clean, and happy.
Why ? Because ho demanded only food which
was wholesome and sufficient to preserve his mus-
cular vigour. He could have gone to London,
hired a room, worked a few hours a day at piece-
work in a factory or at home, and done just as
well, but he preferred the country. He cettainly
never attempted to reproduce his species.
# # *
Have the poor a right to marry? My answer
is : Not until they see their way to keep their
offspring without clamouring for assistance.
A London baker, on 4s. a day, can marry
if he likes, it is no affair of mine ; he does
not touch my purse even if he stirs my sym-
pathies. But a tailor in a sweater’s den forfeits
all claim to my sympathy if he marries. What
right has he ? ' The richer classes claim no
right. Plenty of well-born and moderately
rich young men, even in Australia, ab-
stain from marriage, because they foresee
poverty. A single man or woman (in London,
poor) can live on small wages; but if they
marry, great difficulties arise. Single, they do
not want any more than dogs or horses. They
make no complicated arrangements. They re-
quire no more accommodation than a Chinese
“boy ” in the east, who is entirely installed if you
make a mark with chalk outside your door and
let him sit on it. He stays there for months.
But take a couple, man and wife, in' London, and
all is changed. They require now “capital” or
“property.” The terms for our present purpose
are equivalent. They cannot hire this. They
must save and buy it. I cannot profess any know-
ledge of the particular articles needed. But they
certainly want two rooms, and someone must
“nurse” the children. The woman may go on
earning wages for some months ; then she ceases,
and the man’s earning's have to do for both.
Surely it is clear that if before marriage he was
dreadfully hard up, he will now be still more
sorely pressed? Yet somehow he contrives tc
live. This can be easily explained. It is s
notorious fact that the starving tailors whom we
are asked to commiserate are really not at all in
the position of the Hindoo (3d. a day) or the
Scotch shepherd who lives on burgoo (solely) and
gets nominal wages of say 3s. per month. They
(the tailors) get 2s. a spend on absolute
necessaries some sd. Where does the rent go ?
A very cursory walk through the London streets
will tell you.' It is spent on sugar, tea, milk,
butter, meat, tobacco, alcohol and the like. These
are pure luxuries. Plenty of well-to-do men
eschew many of them.
# *
I have heard some tales of Mr. Saundf.es,
M.H.R., of New Zealand, whieh lead me to
believe that he has found from long experience
that a healthy body and vigorous brain need
very little sustenance beyond brown bread.
Criminals increase in weight and strength with-
out them. I have known rich, idle men ordered
by a doctor to leave off tobacco. They grumbled,
but never asked for sympathy. lam myself at
present a teetotaller, simply because I imagine
the local publican charges too much for whisky. _ I
find that after, say, 48 hours one forgets the habit.
The craving disappears. If the London poor
really disliked bad smells and desired comfort
according to educated people’s ideas, fifty tailors
might hire a big room and knock up bunks and
mess together as in a bush-camp. Here in New
South Wales surveyors get grand tucker for 7s. a
week. It could be done much cheaper in London,
and on a more liberal scale than that adopted
by the Hindoo—the Chinaman—the criminal—
the hermit (Thoeeau)— or the Scotch shep-
herd. There is flour, oatmeal, potatoes, salt,
beef (at 3d. for stewing parts), fish (when there is
a glut of it), rice (say l£d. lb.), treaele (hardly
more), and a variety of condiments, with possibly
vegetables. The London poor, then, get much
more money than they require for necessaries, but
not enough to marry on. If they got more wages
(as they might if a sudden demand arose for
articles which could only be made by Englishmen
in London) they would not alter their rags or
their dens. They would simply spend more
money on the superfluous luxuries enumerated
above. I now come to my question : Why do they
get so little ?
* * *
First, I must shew that it is a proper question
to ask. You might think that I have already
proved that they get enough. This I do not at
all believe. On the contrary, I think that the
labourer is underpaid, the capitalist gets miserable
interest, the consumer pays through the nose for
all he buys. The whole thing is wrong, a com-
plete revolution in trade is required, and very
large questions will be opened up before I have
done. I will take a bootmaker, at 2s. a day. He
says he makes in that time six pairs of boots
worth 355. a pair. He, being unmarried,
has access to a sort of sporting club where
he boozes and talks sedition on Saturday
night. He reads trade-journals. He says the
leather is worth 60s. per cwt., eyelet holes 7d. a
gross, thread sd. per lb., and soon. He reckons
that the factory where he works cost £7OOO for
plant (they rent the premises and power), and that
if you would take 100,000 pairs of boots a year he
could do them at ss, 6d. Hence, he argues, that
his tyrannical boss netts 295. 6d. a pair. This is
a little rough, on the face of it. You see that if
the boss would abate 4d. out of his 295. 6d. and
give it to the workman, it would double his wages.
I am a practical man, and don’t care a dump what
use my cobbler would make of his sudden rise ;
all I see is that he makes fine boots which fetch
a big price, and it is a shame he can’t have a
fair share of the profit. I also think that if he
chooses to say he mil have a share, and will com-
pel the rich to hear his claims by burning London
and hanging the Lord Mayor, then it is good
that one die for the people, and the cobbler has a
deal of right on his side. How can he afford
leisqre to think the problem out ? He only knows
he suffers, and it is for wealthy-leisured people to
find him a remedy, or abide the result if he,
smarting under injustice, suddenly massacres
them. Why, he may ask, should he be sober and
industrious any more than his boss ? He wants his
fair wages, and by Heaven he will have them !
Bad logic, but why expect better from a man you
have never trained to think ?
* * *
Having shown that the question really calls for
an answer, I shall give it in a few words. It is
simply this—that there is not enough to go round.
The production of the world is a known definite
quantity. Economists know that in any one year
the output of sugar is so many million tons. It is
all eaten. The rich eat very little more than the
poor. Ido not suppose Mackay (the millionaire)
eats more than a 4lb. a day. That is a ha’porth.
Hence a universal rise in wages would not help
the poor, unless accompanied by an increase of
production—if the stuff isn’t made they can’t have
it. No abstinence on the part of the rich would


help, for they are, after all, very few in number.
If by some wave of popular enthusiasm you car-
ried an effective law that no rich man should have
more than 4oz. of cooked meat a day, and so on,
what would you benefit the million ? Some meat,
certainly, would bo disengaged ; perhaps they
would get an extra ration all round of four grains
per diem per man. Is it seriously supposed that the
Chinaman should have less rice or the Hindoo less
millet ? These people only just get food ; shall
they be made to hunger that my friend the cobbler
shall have tobacco and alcohol ?
# * #
The remedy is to increase the production of all
the things the cobbler wants. What is produced
must be consumed, and as a rich man cannot con-
sume much more than a poor man, all increase of
production is right into the hands (or bellies) of
the poor, as is proved by the well-known statistics
showing how much more per head of population
we consume (of tea, sugar, currants, &c.,) than we
did in 1790 or 1830. Production is now greater
than in 1830 because of the enormous development
of so-called labour-saving machinery and the im-
mense facilities for carriage offered by steamers
and railways. It is smaller than it should be
because there are so many men who do not Shan-
nonise. Mr. Shannon 'is the celebrated New
Zealander who justified his appointment as Cus-
toms Frauds Detector by saying he did not intend
to sit on his hunkers and draw his screw. Hence to
Shannonise means to exert oneself actively, to
energise. And if they do not Shannonise, what
do they do? We shall understand if we con-
sider why the customer pays 355. for boots
that cost ss. 6d. to make. Is the statement true ?
I say emphatically that in sense and effect and
principle it is a mild statement. I will give abso-
lute facts of a similar character that I can swear
to. Quite recently in a country town I was asked
fid. an ounce for boracic acid, and the holder refused
to take less, though I offered to take any quantity
he chose to sell. Now this is an ordinary article
of commerce. The London price at a factor's is
545. a cwt., or less than fid. a lb. You may guess
what the actual producer gets ! In the same
town some years ago I was asked 3s. 3d. a dozen
for patty-pans, for which at same date the manu-
facturer was getting Is. 6d. a gross. You may
guess what wages he paid his workmen ! Take tea,
if you like. Some of the finest in the world is made
in Ceylon, and the planter gets on an average fid.
a lb. You cannot get it with any certainty here
even at 3s. The Chinese tea you get at ordinary
hotels can be landed in Melbourne for 4Jd. a lb.,
and I suppose the hotel-keeper gives about 2s. 2d.
Anyone who will read the price-list of the Army
and Navy Stores, Victoria-street, London, and
compare them with prices paid here, and
then go behind them to great factors like
Burgoyne Burbidges’, or Morton’s, and read
their lists, and then behind them again to
manufacturers, and behind them to brokers who
buy raw material at the great auction sales, will
see what it means.
* * #
Between the producer who is miserably paid,
and the consumer who pays through the
nose, stand an immense army of middlemen,
who do not Shannonise. I will roughly
trace their iniquitous agency in the case
of a purse which I bought in a country town in
New Zealand for ss. It is partly imaginary, but
not very far out. Between the producer and my-
self were seven profits, and a 25 per cent, duty
near the big end! A “little master,” near
Dresden, made the purse, assisted by three or four
men at 7d. a day. He got 2d. for it from a con-
tractor, who boxed them and got 3s. fid. per dozen
from a factor in Dresden, who had ordered them
months in advance of the season’s demand. The
factor, who has warehouses and employs travellers,
placed a quantity with W.R. and Co., of London,
at ss. They were sold toB.B. and Co., of London,
at 7s. fid. _ They were sent to a Wellington house
in execution of an order, and invoiced at 10s.
This, with duty, &c., means a lay-down cost of 14s.
A Napier general dealer bought some at 205,, and
sold a-quarter dozen to a Waipawa draper at the
rate of 30s. per dozen, and finally the latter
marked them at ss. each. Now, none of these
prices can be “ cut ” much lower, for the simple
reason that the capital employed in trade yields
miserable returns, and as the market cannot be
extended (we already sell all that is produced and
could sell no more if we sold at no profit at all)
lower profits would mean getting no interest at
all. We see, however, that if the remedy for our
grievance be to increase production, we have
arrived at the true means to stimulate production.
Which is put in a word (as an Irishman would
say) namely : Abolish the middle-man. I do not
mean entirely, but suppress nine-tenths of him.
He is a nuisance, and unnecessary. He must be
made to go and work and produce something.
Then we shall have more stuff made. Capital
will get better interest, consumers will buv
oh saper, and wages will rise.
* * *
If you think the middle-man ha» any reasonable
■ Ii!’ 10 *" 101 ' 1 ’ go and watch any ordinary chemist. He is
idle nearly all the day. Half-a-dozen shops could
do all your Sydney trade, and behold there are at
least a hundred, all with their costly fittings,
allwith the same elaborate stock of drugs, all
saying they sell an article so rarely that they want
•ml per cent, profit to make it pay. The same
applies to drapers. And what a libel on humanity
to see tall, young fellows, who might have handled
an axe or guided a plough, wasting their manhood
on the frivolities of lace and ribbons ! Break up
your cheating yard-wands,” my friends, and let
.. your places. Go and Shannonise! In
addition to abolishing most of the middlemen, we
wantto gradually abolish all over the world the
ealthy classes, and render it impossible for any
man to have more land than he tills, more clothes
an he wears, more food than he can eat, more
• ervants than can tend and groom him. This is,
However, a mere sentimental detail. 1 execrate
these people myself because their hoarded wealtli
_ a perpetual insult, a continual menace, to men
hv ll J™.bl e y fortunes. They spoil my amusements
Tu au i . lcde insouciance, they spoil my
. b y thei , r ability to give more for a thing
han it is worth. That Westminster (I will not
b™ his title) should have £BOO,OOO a year,
,2* that whole square miles of London remain
oSr ed ,- W ha t incentive has this drone to
of Ifin'SL That M ; u;KAV should have a capital
ot £50,000, goo means that he can, at any instant,
desnr-uf J K,wer niore secret, far-reaching and
lespotic than any monarch ever dreamed of. He
Scrnntr? er °m SUC ] lmagnitude that 1 would not
T m chlor o for m him. with as much celerity
mar. a S ? uasl a was P- Speaking roughly, no
® slloldd have a larger capital, (or, if you'like
£2000*" b‘20,000, or a larger income than
had niim J ll W(l,dd enable him (if no one else
tiS“°L e)togratlf y hls social and artistic facul-
diseasedV 8 -. T pei : mit him to lender to a
Shamm ■ anit l by maintaining a crowd of non-
dependents. For the rest, I trust
mimnt ttl °i n ( not htate education with its
m iuwLf n 1 geogTa hhy, but a general rise
mm ? Ual Sta tus) will elevate the poor
t-.ioir sensual stye, and that a return
to simpler tastes will relieve the wealthy
of ennui by bringing them to a healthier way of
living. Our great problem is, to abolish the
middle-man. I shall not now discuss how it can be
done. Let reformers chew and digest what I have
written. When we are all agreed on what we want,
it will bring itself to pass. At present we have
merely a vague sense of discomfort. I have shown
precisely where the shoe pinches, and do not pro-
pose just now to act as cobbler. Diagnosis first,
cure afterwards.
W. F. HOWLETT.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
A Deceased Judge.
Justice Kerferd —-who jobbed himself into a
place on the Victorian Bench, but subsequently
did his best to uphold the majesty of the law
departed this life via Sorrento last week. Elected
to the Victorian Assembly in 1864, Mr. Kerferd’s
political services were considerably flavoured with
chicken and champagne, which he tackled with
great energy and perseverance until his digestion
began to fail. He sat always for the same district,
the Ovens, and carried out his destiny by assisting
to “ cook ” everything that promised to yield little
pickings for himself. The legal career of urbane
Mr. Kerferd was quite unique in its success.
Being a brewer at the time of his election his
thoughts naturally turned to the Bar. It was a
tolerably easy profession in those days, was the
Bar, and after a couple of years’ rollicking study
Kerferd was “called.” He didn’t go when he
was called, but stayed in the House to look after
Conservative interests and drink Her Majesty’s
gracious health on every available occasion.
Lacking wit to earn his bread - and - cheese
as a barrister, Kerferd hung on to Sladen,.
Francis, M'Cclloch, Service, Berry, or any-
body who came handy, and figured as an
almost continuous Minister of the Crown.
Once he ran a nice, easy-going Government
of his own, and was the first to adopt the
style of “Premier.” At other times he usually
tilled the billet of Attorney-General; in fact, he
picked up all the law he ever knew while in the
calm enjoyment of that lucrative capacity. No
lawyer on earth ever had his lines cast in such
pleasant places as Mr. Kerferd. About six
years ago the deceased gentleman began to turn
his eyes towards the Bench, so by way of prepara-
tion for his future course in life he introduced
(with the assistance of capable “ghosts”) a new
Judicature Act, thereby abolishing at one fell
swoop any need of previous experience in the law.
The Victorian Law was born again, with Kerferd
for its father. All being now ready for a “Jus-
tice ” Kerferd, but no judge having the goodness
to die off and leave an opening, this ingenious
gentleman volunteered to fill a long-felt want by
creating another, the historical “ sixth ” judgeship,
into which new position he dropped with great
dignity amidst the jeers of a disgusted public.
Nevertheless, when the storm abated, Mr. Ker-
ferd’s essentially respectable jobbery was found
to have partially justified itself. Victoria could
do with another judge (although he wasn’t wanted
badly at the moment), and Kerferd, by in-
variably deferring judgment until he had primed
himself up with wisdom, played his part without
making an object of himself. Regarded as an
exponent of political morality, Mr. Kerferd was
at no time a blessing or a boon to this great
country. Such newspapers as prattle about his
“long career of usefulness” are perverting the
blessed truth after the manner of their kind.
Personally a popular and amiable type of man,
Mr. Kerferd was always a political power for
evil of a positive or negative kind. He worked
for nobody save himself and family. Not only did
he neglect to serve his country during twenty
years of abundant opportunities—he systemati-
cally served Kerferd at his country’s expense.
De mortuis nil nisi bonum is bosh.
.Lawyerdom in New South Wales.
The legal profession in New South Wales has
swollen to an enormous extent. In January of
this year in Sydney alone there will be seven
Supreme Court Judges, seven District Court
Judges, and six Stipendiary Magistrates, in addi-
tion to a Master in Equity and a Registrar in
Insolvency, the latter now an important office.
There will be about 100 practising barristers, 350
attorneys and solicitors, 30 certified conveyancers,
and more than 100 articled clerks. In the country,
as distinct from the city of Sydney, there are over
250 practising attorneys and a few conveyancers.
Is there legal business to feed such a hungry
army? At no time in its existence was the
Supreme Court Bench manned by so young, so
vigorous, and such satisfactory judges, and more
than one of its number would lose nothing by com-
parison with the judicial dignitaries in England.
The District Court judges, however, with perhaps
three exceptions, ought to be pensioned off, and it is
rumoured that the matter is much exercising the
mind of the Minister for Justice. One who has
never given satisfaction has recently become a
fruitful source of laughter and professional mirth.
He has _ lately surpassed, even himself, by his
absurdities, his sneers at the Supreme Court, his
tediousness, his never ceasing prefaces that “ he
may be a fool,” etc., and the regularity with
which the Supreme Court sets aside his decisions.
These decisions are mentioned in the Appellate
Court with a smile all round, and the Supreme
Court very often arrives at a contrary decision
for the same reasons given by His Honor.
Another District Court judge is very deaf,
and has earned his pension, while a third
is very old and his decisions can seldom be ap-
pealed from owing to a total absence of any notes
at the hearing. A very junior member of the Bar
recently told the Supreme Court—and that junior
was not rebuked—that a trial before this District
Court judge was no trial, but a farce—that in-
stead of taking notes the Judge walked up and
down on the Bench with his hands in his trousers
pockets. Two of the remaining four are excellent
judges, able lawyers, and satisfactory adminis-
trators of justice. The system which sends the
best judges to the remote country districts is re-
sponsible for the unfortunate state of things in
Sydney, and, as in the present year two of
the unsatisfactory judges will preside in the
Sydney District Courts, an early vacancy on
the District Court Bench may be expected.
The profession and the public have been very
. patient, but as there is an end to all things, we
may expect an end to their patience early in this
year. The public will insist on being served by
young, competent lawyers, trained in modern
law and possessed of an aptitude for business
matters. The outlook, for the Bar, having regard
to its numbers and the encroachments of the
attorneys, is not promising Not more than five-
and-twenty make an income of £5OO a year—a few
live through being sons or sons-in-law of judges
or brothers of attorneys, and the rest subsist
not live —on briefs “In the goods of
, deceased.” The public believe coun-
sel are always paid in cash, but even
the gentlemen who devote their talents to
the “mortuary ” business learn that the custom of
accounts quarterly is honoured, and even if they
are paid half-yearly they are happy. This custom
leads to much abuse, io facilitates oppressive and
speculative actions, enables attorneys to deal
with the “ cash fees ” paid to them for counsel,
and unfairly and unduly handicaps able young
counsel, who cannot afford.to allow the attorneys
to use their fees for speculative or mortgage in-
vestments. A young counsel insists on his fees,
they may be paid, but he never receives another
brief from that office. That there must be a few
men at the Bar who assist the “ nuisance ” of
his profession—the attorney who brings actions
on spec.—there can be no doubt, else we would not
see actions in the Supreme Court for sums under
£3O. In the advertising columns of a Sydney
paper there appears a daily advertisement from
an attorney offering to take business on chance of
being paid out of the other side. This enterpris-
ing “gentleman, one,” &c., ought to have plenty
to do, unless the Incorporated Law Institute runs
him to earth or the Attorney-General decides to
come down on any member of the Bar who may
be guilty of fish-like practices.
4
The Salvation Army leaders are commencing to
pile up riches on earth. The bosses congratulate
the rank-and-file on the value of the “real estate ”
owned by the Army ! They also advertise their
willingness to grant pensions in return for lump
sums donated to the Army, and they will give
current rates of interest for loans ! If the Salva-
tionists would but lease “real estate ” alone, and
take up the Socialistic movement, what a power
they would be, and what a shove along they would
give to Socialism! This hankering after wealth
and “ proputty ” will effectually destroy the
raison d'etre of the Army. Once they possess
landed property and accumulated funds they will
wax fat and kick. In the course of a decade or
two it will pay smart people to belong to the
Army—and then —farewell to its utility. For it
is useful. It reaches classes and individuals
ostracised by Respectability—but, alas ! it is now
verging on respectability itself.
“Johnny” Bray has been made a K.C.M.G.*
and he has accepted that dubious honour with
much alacrity. Mr. Bray is the Speaker of the
S.A. House of Assembly. He was born in
Adelaide, is the son of a respectable but obscure
shoemaker, and has been the architect of his own
fortunes. Mr. Bray is a charming conversa-
tionalist, has a marvellous faculty for making the
worse appear the better cause to other persons
than himself, and has (like John Davies, C.M.G.,
Burdett Smith, C.M.G., and a large assortment
of other C.M.G. ’s) the common-sense to believe
that nobody is too insignificant to be noticed.
Some years ago the alleged dignity which he has
now accepted was offered to Bray. At that time
he had consented to play second fiddle to Sir
John Downer. The Queen didn’t know this,
and she directed her letter asking Bray to be a
knight to the “ Premier of South Australia.”
Mr. Bray then respectfully declined, but now he
has repented and blossomed into a title. Sad to
relate, he is President of the South Australian
branch of the Natives’ Association, which has
lately declared its abhorrence of titles imposed by
the Imperial authorities. For Sir John Bray,
K.C.M.G., there is “no music in the word
Republic. ”
One of theN. S. W. Railway Commissioners’
latest acts is to send to England for an accountant
at a thousand a year (the secretary of the depart-
ment only gets £6OO or £700). Nobody in this
beastly country, it is said, understands railway
accounts.
The Queensland shearers have decided to
amalgamate with the N.S.W. union and will send
delegates to the Bourke conference to be held in
February next. As an instance of the good feel-
ing prevailing between the shearers of the two
colonies, we are informed by Secretary Head that
the employes on Corona Downs Station, Queens-
land, have sent £lO to the fund for the Brookong
shearers, who have now been in prison over
fifteen months.
Jackey, the Adelaide blackfellow, is not
to be hanged. To hang Jackey at Adelaide by
way of example on account of a murder committed
at a distance would be the height of idiocy, con-
sidering that his fellow-niggers don’t read the
evening papers and would know and care nothing
about the matter. Imprisoning him for life simply
means that in less than five years he will die of
consumption. And yet the law authorities and
the Executive had made up their minds to choke
the black wretch until the People stepped in.
The other day Melbourne Herald rushed
excitedly into circulation with the joyful intelli-
gence that his Excellency the Earl of Hopetoun
had survived Boxing Day without relapsing into
any faints, fits, or other conditions of physical
distress, and it begged to intimate with an excess
of loyal emotion that, though the day was an
exaggerated and tempestuous brick-fielder, and
everybody else was prostrated in awful languor
and giving way to drinks and spurts of swearing,
the Governor was “ lively and wide awake ”; for
he walked about at the races and then went home
“ and played lawn-tennis, and had a good time.”—
Oh ! let us revel and rejoice,
And sing with one ecstatic voice,
A psean of praise, for at the race-
Course Hopetoun lingered in the hea/
For twenty minutes on his feet,
And did not faint about the place.
The Earl’s survived a hot-wind day,
We’ve now no doubt he’s come to stay.
’Twas feared ’twould spread him out again,
Thank Heaven, no ! he trod the lawn
As bold as native men of brawn,
And bravely faced the fierce champagne.
They watched to catch him when he fell,
In vain, he stood the ordeal well,
And then this hardiest of Earls
Went home, and recklessly did choose
To don his flannels and his shoes,
And play at tennis with the girls.
The damsels dainty, you can swear,
All marked their Gov. with tender care
And sympathy no pen can paint—
Each hoped when consciousness was fled
lo nurse the small, vice-regal head,
But ah ! the Viscount didn’t faint.
His Nibs kept wide-awake and gay,
“ And frolicked all the summer day,”
Withstood an interviewer grim,
And bore it all to show ’twill take
A great deal more than wind to make
The colony too hot for him.
The Victorian gold-yield for 1889 was
£G61,1000z., a decrease of 10,100 oz. for the year.
The Madame Berry Mine gave the largest dividend
—£Bl,ooo.
Mr. P, J. Gandon, of Sydney debating-
society notoriety, in a long and windy letter to
the press, declares in favour of Imperialism, and
says that the word “Republic” “is not music in
his ears.” Perhaps Gandon’s ears are too long.
The master bakers of Sydney make out
that by selling bread at l|d. per pound they have
only made 3d. on every 100 pounds of flour manu-
factured (or 4h per cent on their outlay), and that
is why they have determined to raise the price to
3 2 d. per 21b. loaf. It further appears that after
all they have decided to sell their bread at 3d.
Inference ?
Seven out of the fifteen Scotch jurymen
who tried Laurie, the Arran murderer, voted for a
verdict 'of “not proven.” This is much made use
of in the reprieve agitation and Laurie, though
there can be little doubt as to his guilt, will
scarcely come to the gallows. The Scottish
dislike to capital punishment is scarcely founded
on sentiment. The world’s most logical race
recognises the absurdity of committing murder in
order to show the immorality of it.
The “Christmas leader” writers of both
Age and Argus trotted out Tennyson’s revered
chestnut, “ Lhe great world spins for ever
down the ringing grooves of change. ” They might
have explained that the great world generally spins
for liquor while it has any grooves of change left,
and the loser squares up with the barmaid. But
they didn’t. These daily journalists never see
the real point of any quotation, except in silver--
shares, or wool, or things like that.
The Melbourne correspondent of the
London Times “ thoroughly deprecates further
borrowing on the part of that colony, suggesting
that there is no security that the money
would be expended in reproductive works.” The
Times correspondent is understood to be Sir
Archibald Michie, Q.C., at one time Agent-
Gener.al and several times a Minister of the
Crown, who has been all his life looked upon as a
political failure, the oidy measure with which his
name has been associated being the “ Single
Bottle Bill,” which enabled grocers to sell a
single bottle of any kind of liquor, and which is
said to be the cause of more drunken women than
all the public-houses put together—the “single”
bottle being put down in the weekly bill as “tea
and sugar ” or “ cash.”
Dear Bulletin, —A paragraph in your corres-
pondence-column having reference to the restrictions
placed on coloured persons in the States, reminds me of a
yarn I heard when in New York many years ago. The
most exclusive of the Protestant Episcopal churches in
New York is Grace Church, situated in (I think) Six-
teenth-street, between Third and Fourth Avenues. They
had, when I was there, two separate and distinct churches
in the same block of ground. The church fronting the
street was a magnificent edifice and luxuriously furnished
in crimson plush. The sittings were leased by the year
to the cream of the cream of the Empire city.
At _ the back of this church was another, of much
plainer construction and furniture, occupied by the poorer
members of the congregation and by coloured persons.
At the time of which I write there was a certain wealthy
negro who had for some years past been a member of the
latter church, and whose benefactions and contributions
to the Church funds and charities had been on a scale of
princely munificence. The members of the superior
Church, after much serious cogitation, at last came to
the conclusion that the time had arrived for
Mr. Johnson’s admission into the select circle of
which they were such brilliant ornaments. Ac-
cordingly, on a certain Communion Sunday, Mr. John-
son obtained the summit of his ambition and took
his seat for the_ first time in the aristocratic pre-
cincts of the superior church. After the usual morning
service the Communion was served. The communicants '
did not, as in our churches, go to the altar-rails and there
kneeling receive the bread and wine from the hands of
the officiating clergyman. They remained in their pews,
and two surpliced deacons, each bearing a gold salver,
one containing the bread cut into small cubes and the
other having,on it a gold flagon containing the wine and
a,small gold cup, visited each communicant in turn. The
first deacon with the bread visited Mr. Johnson in the usual
way, and so far all was well, but when the second
deacon came round with the wine and poured about
a thimbleful into the gold cup and presented it to Mr.
Johnson, that sable gentleman thought that it was not
enough, and, to the horror and consternation of all
present, gave utterance to the following Fill ’em up,
sah.” That was Mr. Johnson’s first and last appearance
in the superior church. On the following Sunday he was
relegated to the obscurity from whence he had so recently
emerged, and for aught I know he may be there still. I
do not vouch for the absolute truth of the above yarn,
but it was told to me for a positive fact, with this dif-
ference, that the negro’s name was not “Johnson.”—
Yours, etc., Willis Hall. Melbourne, Deo. 28, 1889.
There is a disowned red-headed female in
Melbourne who suffers under the most distressing
aberrations of intellect when in beer, and as she
spends most of her time in pursuing and over-
taking that refreshing beverage, she is an awful
nuisance long drawn out and a menace to all men
at large without the protection of a wife or
guardian. This intemperate waif and stray when
in a fit is strong in the belief that she is a de-
serted wife stranded on the bank of misfortune
with a legal hold on some husband or husbands
unknown, and she starts out with a yell of
anguish to catch her man and bring him to jus-
tice by the hair of his head ; and as the first
male she reaches always seems to answer the
description and fill the bill she forecloses on him,
and brings down ignominy and bitterness around
about him in a public place by calling him various
objects of disgust and detestation and requesting
him with unnecessary violence to go along with '
her and support a family he never heard of before
and be one husband more than his conscience will
permit; and when he pleads ignorance or other
arrangements or engagements she screams for the
assistance of policemen, and binds them over to
hold the man,_ whilst she initiates maintenance
cases against him, and charges him with desertion .
and all sorts of villainy. This woman has started
more prosecutions for alimony than any other female
in Australia, but her cases never get beyond the ,
first stages ere she sobers up and discovers that
she has permitted the beer to lead her into mis-
takes again. It is customary now to look the lady
up when she raises her wild cry, and keep her
detained till the spasm is past, but she still finds
time and_ contrives to be an awful incubus on the
fine sensibilities of a pale, thin, respectable man
moving in church circles and having a brother in •
the clergy ; and she makes a point of seeing him
after church hours and cheerful meetings, and
throwing herself on his hands, and telling him
to come home and all will be forgiven, or
to return at once ancj iio questions will
be asked; and she treats him to terms of
endearment or furious reproaches, just as
the humor takes her. There is no back-door to
the church, and so the elder is driven to the
necessity of hiding in a cupboard when intelligence
arrives that the mentally-aberrated female is wait-
ing at the gate, and though he knows that those
whom the Lord loveth He ehasteneth, he would
rather not be chased by a dishevelled wreck in
old clothes and hugged before the multitude, and
Wesleyan influence is being brought to bear on
the woman to induce her to swear off and go and
be a lunatic in places set apart by Government-
for that purpose.


“ The Man of the World ” styles the Sal-
vation Army “ The religion of perspiration.”
The husband of a well-known songstress
made £50,000 in one N.S.W. mining deal the
other day.
Mr. Walter Mott, eldest son of Mr. G. H.
Moit, of Gordon and Gotch, Melbourne, has been
drowned in the Yarra while bathing.
It is cabled that Alfonzo XIII. of Spain,
who has been seriously indisposed, is recovering.
Alfonzo is about four years old and has been
eating green apples.
A well-known Sydney masher appears to
have scooted. It is understood that he is chasing
two or three thousand pounds belonging to his
master which flew away during a recent southerly-
buster.
Colonel Robert Ingersoll’s daughter, Eva,
has married Lawyer Watson H. Brown, of New
York. “ They simply agreed in the presence of
witnesses to become man and wife and sealed the
contract by signing some necessary papers.”
Mr. M ‘Kinney has been appointed N. S. W.
Chief Engineer for Water Conservation and Com-
missioner for the Murray. “Commissioner for
the Murray ” is indeed a gorgeous title. Nobody
under Heaven but Parkes could have invented it.
An ingenious photographer has lately
had his business address printed (in a daily
paper advt.) inside an outline of the map of Aus-
tralia, at the left-hand (south-western) corner of
which is shown the island of Tasmania. Every-
one is now laughing at his ignorance. Moral:
He knows how to advertise.
Mayor Burdekin, of Sydney, just after
assuming office waited on Governor Carington
and wished H.E. a pleasant trip to N.Z. Then
he proceeded to pay his official respects to Chief
Justice Darley, after which a visit of a similar
nature was paid to Cardinal Moran. This is
indeed a startling departure. Has Mayor Burdekin
paid his respects' to The Bulletin’s chaplain, the
Rev. Ebenezer Jobkins, who is head of the
religious confraternity of Mormonistic Hardshells?
And if not, why not ?
Rev. Dr. M‘Gregor, who lately “did”
Australia, has boasted at a largely attended meet-
ing in Edinburgh, that his total expenses on Aus-
tralian soil during a six months’ trip were twelve
shillings and saxpence. This is just the sort of
boast to make an Edinburgh audience chuckle,
and, worst of all, to induce a wholesale emigration
to this beastly country of Scotch parsons. How-
ever, there is nothing particularly novel about
the matter ; heaps of “ distinguished deadheads ”
have done the same thing as the M‘Gregor, but,
so far, none have been so graceless as to boast of it.
When Premier Parkes visited Manly and
talked Federation, some venal person who had on
his tongue what the balance of the meeting had
in their hearts, cried out in a loud voice, “ What
about removing the quarantine-station ? ” “Ah,”
said Parkes, “ we’ll remove it as soon as a suitable
site can be obtained.” “You told us that two
years ago,” said the voice. “ Very well,” said
Parkes, “ if I did say it two years ago it is quite
clear that what you wish for is now two years
nearer than it was then.” Which reminds us that
when the hon. member for Smith’s Curse, Texas,
was reminded that at last election he had promised
them a bridge, he said ; “ Yes, gentlemen, I did
promise you a bridge—and now I promise it to
you again.”
The meeting held in Sydney to promote
a monument to the late sculler, Searle, was most
enthusiastic, except in point of cash. Of the £100
collected in the room £85 10s. came from five
people. However, there is no doubt of the ulti-
mate success of the movement. The only part of
the proceedings which struck one as not being
tolerably level-headed was the speech of ex-
Treasurer Garvan (once an active oarsman himself)
who said that—When the news of Searle’s death
came through, he (Mr. Garvan) thought it would
be a fitting tribute if the august tribunal of the
Legislative Assembly were to show sympathy
with his parents by adjourning. But he regretted
that some of the people’s representatives were too
narrow-minded to pay that tribute. ”
From among the gubernatorial chestnuts
in Sir George Bowen’s lately-published book of
reminiscences we extract the following : —
The captain of a P. and 0. steamer states that, on one
occasion, a missionary among the passengers asked, in
only half a gale of wind, it the ship was (sic) not sinking.
“I took him,” said the captain, “to the forecastle, and
told him to listen to the talk of the sailors, who were
using profane language. ‘ Do you suppose, sir,’ I re-
marked, ‘ that the sailors would talk in that way if the
ship were sinking under?’ This seemed to encourage the
missionary, who went back to his cabin. However, in the
middle of "the night the wind increased, and I saw creeping
towards the forecastle a white object, which I soon dis-
covered to be my friend in his nightgown. He.listened
for a minute to the sailors, and then crept back to his
berth, muttering, ‘ Thank God! they arc swearing still.’”
This yarn was about GOO years old in the days of
Captain Marryatt. If the miserable Bowen really
wants to interest the Australian public, why
doesn’t he give them a full and particular account
of the genesis of that little fracas in Melbourne
Botanical Gardens ?
Notice to Artistic and Literary Contributors
Strictly Original matter contributed to Tub Bulletin
will he paid for. The Editor will he glad to receive and
consider contributions as under :
1. Original humorous or political matter, illustrated or
otherwise. (Drawings must he made in clean lines
of Indian ink on white paper or Rristol-board.)
3. Unpublished anecdotes of living celebrities, or people
who ought to be celebrated.
3. Humorous poems (from eight to forty-eight lines pre-
ferred.
!,. Serious poems, of similar or greater length, especially
those suitable for pictorial illustration.
H ShAustralian or other stories, up to, say, 3000
words. About half that length, or even less, will
be preferred.
All Contributions must be Written Legibly, on One
Side Only of the paper, and folded, not rolled. The
name and address of the writer must appear, in all
oases, on the MS. itself, and not merely on an accompany-
ing letter or paper. The Proprietors do not hold them-
selves responsible for Rejected Contributions; but, if
accompanied by a stamped and addressed envelope or
wrapper, every effort tvill be made to return them.
The Editor does nut undertake to enter into any
correspondence respecting rejected Manuscripts,
The
Marvellous
18s. 6d.
OPTIMUS
WATCHES.
The Best, Cheapest and Most Accurate Timekeepers
ever produced.
Made especially to our order by one of the leading and
most celebrated manufacturers of Watches in Switzerland,
and experience has shown that no watch is better than a
well-made Swiss one.
Gilt movements, jewelled in six holes, keyless (10 turns
to wind), enamel dials, crystal faces, well made, splendidly
finished, nickel cases that will wear excellently; in fact,
real good-looking, handsome little watches, and magnifi-
cent timekeepers.
Twelve months' guarantee forwarded with every one.
Send P. 0.0. for 19s. 6d. (Is. postage), and have one
forwarded by post. If not in every way satisfactory after
a week money willingly refunded.
Only to be obtained from
FROST <Sc SHIPHAM,
Spectacle Makers, Opticians & Electricians,
*74 & 587 George Street, Sydney.
[?]
846 Macqiufle-street North, Sydney-, January 8, 1890,
My Dear Moorabinda
I read the other day that they use women’s hair in
Japan for the manufacture of rope. In Australia we use
rope in the manufacture of women’s hair—which reminds
me that wigs will soon be openly changed and alluded to
as bonnets, it being gradually recognised that a tow-
haired woman who pines to go forth in greenery-yallery
will create a greater sensation if she sails under a black
wig than beneath her natural half-hearted thatch. Adelina
Patti is said to be responsible for this state of affairs, as
she told a reporter that the reason she dyed her hair
auburn was because, being in mourning for her sister, she
wanted brightening up. If the idea really catches on, the
society scribe of the futui'e will be constrained to tell
how “ Mrs. Blank wore a charming green gown with hair
beautifully matching 1”
Speaking of hair—a radical change is coming o’er the
dressing of that lonely wisp which is all most women have
to fondly foster. It’s not going off the top—dear me !
no! no sensible woman will ever expose her parting to
the light of day- while she can possibly help it, for the
width of a parting reveals more unpleasant facts than
the average woman carfes to have advertised. The cachet
of the fashionable coiffure just now is fearful and
wonderful untidiness as if the owner had stood on her
head on a dusty- doormat before pronouncing herself
ready, and the effect from the back is aboriginal. It also
suggests an uncombed poodle, and sitting behind such a
head-dress at the theatre, the other night, I found myself
mechanically- looking for ticks.
I read that “ the triangular table for dinner-parties is
the latest fashionable fad of fashion. The hostess oc-
cupies the base of the triangle, and has the distinguished
men with her.” AVhat a suggestive Sydney fashion it
would make ! To see a local hostess in an ordinary- low
bodice seated at a triangle surrounded by- a distinguished
party of N.S.AV. justices would irresistibly suggest that a
flogging was about to take place, wouldn’t it ? I don’t
think the triangular mahogany will catch on in Aus-
tralia —the shape would remind people too unpleasantly
of the tribulations of their erring ancestors.
A glance round Sydney Criterion on New Year’s Eve
revealed the painful fact that the Philistines were, in-
deed, upon us, and the air was redolent with the aroma
of the hayseed. One w-eather-beaten lady’s opera-cloak
consisted of a yard of green liberty-silk, unlined and
hemmed at the edges ; and a joyous creature in a bash •
crop wore her large, generous feet crossed and extended
between the backs of the chairs before her and appearing
sociably betw-een the couple in front. The only ray of
hope was a society- ladydn'a yellow silk ball-gown and an
enlightened young man who had reversed the usual order
of things and wore a white evening-suit and a black tie.
The effect was very nigger-steward-like at first blush, but
after a while one recognised its cool sensibleness. The
distressing absence of rags in front was rendered doubly
conspicuous w-hen the curtain went up, for in “ Friends’’
Mrs. Brough w-ore some gorgeous garments. In acts
1 and 4 the most artistic of them all—a lovely tea-gown
in blue-grey with a thundering train—the fronts
and semi-Medici collar faced with lighter silk over
a loose underdress fastened across with bows-and-
euds of ribbon en suite, Vandyke collar in w-hite lace. In
act 2 she sporteth a rather vivid and unconventional
decollette morning-gown in gladiator-red cashmere beauti-
fully draped over a cream lace skirt. In act 3 a sunlight-
yellow silk and brocade ball-gown with a voluminous
train, the front consisting of fulled quarters of silk
divided by bands of moire—the Berthe bodice simply
trimmed with folds of silk. “ Friends” is a noble instance
of how much you can say without saying anything, and
the sublime way it cavorts on the brink of the Improper
and flits away before a school-girl could summon a hostile
blush commanded the breathless attention of a crowded
house. It is played for all it’s worth, too, and Cecil
AVard’s love-making must have been an object-lesson in
the Art of Love to some of the transfixed AVay Back
women, who were probably wooed on separate chairs to
the extent of a horny half-hand insinuated round a
busked-up waist.
At a recent meeting of the Sydney City Council it was
decided that the present civic fashions shall suffer elision—
that Mayor and Alderman shall blossom forth in newarray.
It is proposed to do away with the purple and ermine robes
which turn a sensible metropolitan mayor into a sort of
baggy old Father Xmas, and allow that gentleman—l
mean the Mayor—to wear officially a fitting black coat,
dolled up with red and white silk—the Aldermen to wear
evening-dress with neckties of white lace. And if I dared
presume to advise the municipal body-guard, I would
entreat them not to wear antimacassars round their necks
orochetted by Mary Ann. A narrow lace tie—it ought to
be real lace—arrives there miles ahead of a thing the size
of a cot-counterpane.
Have you noticed (of course you have) in tram, or train (
or waiting-room, or drawing-room, or anywhere under
the sun where there are windows, how the women therein
assembled will fidget if they are not seated with their
backs to the light? And if a woman is forced to face the
music she will hang her head or shield herself with a
book, a fan, her hand—anything rather than submit un-
defended to the pitiless glare. It’s a queer phase of
feminine human nature, and has its origin, I suppose, in
the fact that paint and powder are hopelessly given away
in one ray of gladsome sunlight. If a business man wants
to get rid of a lady-canvasser or an inoppcjfcune feminine
visitor during office-hours, just let him place her on a
chair in front of him with the window in her face, and if
she doesn’t wish him good morning in ten seconds, she is
one of those raw-boned women’s-rights females who prove
exceptions lo all feminine rules. Men whb are troubled
with begging-letter ladies, female deputations and clerical-
presentation treasuresses should bear this well in mind.
Mrs. Malaprop, of the Point, has a friend in Paris, who
as yet shows no inclination to leave the gay capital.
Speaking of the absent one recently the lady said, “No,
not cornin’ ’ome for three months yet! She’s a worse
Parisite than I am !” And just then somebody °oughed
loudly.
Grain of rice from the S.M.H.
I\/TATRIMONIAL.—EngIish Lady, not young, wishes
correspondence with Widower without family,
strictly steady habits, liberal education, able to keep
home coraf., Eng. pref., refs, exchanged. Genuine,
Box 1062, G.P.O.
“ Liberal education ” is painfully accurate. I think all the
darlings who plead for lords and masters through the
columns of the daily press know considerably more than
B from a bull’s foot, don’t you ?
Sydney playgoers who cherish fond remembrances of
Lou'se Davenport (Mrs. Sheridan) will rejoice to hear that
she meditates a re-appearance on the stage in a gorgeous
dramatisation of “ She ” whenever an eligible theatre has
vacant dates. Negotiations are pending at present, and
Mrs. Sheridan (who occupies a charming house at Darling
hurst) whiles away the fleeting interval between her
horse and dogs and dabbling in mining matters - a. very-
general feminine fashion just now set by “ Princess Midas.’
By the by, a well-known Thespian (“ not to put too fine
a point on it ”) offered Mrs. Sheridan feminine lead in
a big production and she accepted the engagement.
But, alas ! the Thespian’s wife, who hankers after all the
“ fat,” scented the arrangement from afar, and bore down
on the wretched man in an incensed sortie of one and a re-
iterated crescendo intention of either playing “Cassandra’
herself or guarding the stage-door with her rosy nails ;
the consequence was that fright ruled and Mrs. Sheridan
was not associated with the frost that resulted. Is Mar-
riage a Failure? But the moral is that if your wife has a
voice like a rusty hinge and the dramatic ability of a
clothes-prop leave her behind when you go on a tour.
p.S —i had almost forgotten to say that this all occurred
ever so long ago.
According to the plates in Madame Weigel’s Journal
of Fashion for the current month, femininity this season
will resemble those giddy Noah’s Ark ladies who show the
same shape every way. “Plain Empire skirts falling
straight from the waist ” without the slightest vestige of
tournure are to be the rage this summer, and the girl
who isn’t blessed by Nature with a mature-washerwoman
outline had better fit herself out with hip-pads (I can tell
her where to get them if she doesn’t know) before she
rings up her frock-builder. To make up for the skirtal
severity bodices are to be extensively- tortured —a new
sleeve-trimming, calculated to widen the scrimpiest figure
and to be sedulously avoided by the top-shaped lady, being
two rows of lace let in at each seam and turned forward
over the upper part of the arm. Another idea that will
be heartily taken up by the cheap-jacks of the drapery
persuasion, and sold so economically that fashionable
people had better leave it alone, is the Zouave jacket in
lace or embroidery to be worn over a washing-dress. It’s
a pretty- airy- idea, but death is written on its pallid brow:
it is fore-doomed for Mary Jane’s broad back and an “only
one-and-eleveu ” fate.
Despite the fact that Randwick races were in full blast
a very good attendance graced the cricket-match at
Rushcutters’ Bay Oval, on Ist inst., between “ I Zingari ”
Club and Brough’s team of Thespians. Play commenced
at noon, and resulted in the defeat of the dramatic
gentlemen who mostly wore silk shirts and dandy caps,
and went into striking poses on the faintest provocation,
but whose fielding was enough to make even their op-
ponents shed sympathetic tears. Of course there were
lots of theatrical people on view, and it was lovely to see
the non-professional women gaping into the faces of the
Thespiennes as if they were not of the same clay- and
couldn’t possibly resent being stared at as though they
were vice-regal or on exhibition. As to the clothes
sported I didn’t inspect them very carefully, but I
grasped that Pattie Browne had on a white blouse over a
pinkish skirt and a lily-of-the-valley toque-that Brenda
Gibson’s hat didn’t become her and that her hair was a
touzle, as usual; that Miss Romer was in a lizard-grey
gown and a black bonnet; and that Jennie Lee wore cream
muslin and a black and cream hat. Afternoon tea was
handed round by Brough, Titheradge (sen. and jun.),
Lyndal and Jewett, who made very neat waiters indeed,
while the appearance of the tray-laden Boucicault
was the signal for approving shouts of “soup, sah
and a moving sight was afforded by a gentle maiden in
grey muslin, pocketing lollies and sponge cakes as if she
anticipated a deep and aching vacuum in the near future.
1 was given much food for reflection during a Watch
Night Service at a fashionable fane on New Year’s
Eve by the appearance of a posse of devout young women
and one or two escorts in evening-dress - the ladies in
plush wraps, fleecy skirts, and lace-shawls over their
heads—tne gentlemen in a blaze of laundried linen and
gorgeous studs. The obvious deduction was that they
had just left the theatre and probably carried their pro-
grammes doubled up in their prayer-books. Yet they
worshipped with much apparent conviction and sincerity.
AVe are an incongruous people.
During the football matches—England verms N.S.AV.
it was frequently my painful duty to chide the 10, 1
people for refusing to cheer the visitors when they made
a point, but I’m sorry to hear that such rudeness isn’t only-
displayed to foreigners. A valiant cricketer returned
from playing in the Melbourne versus N.S.AV. match over
the border complains of the absolute, chilling silence
maintained -whenever the Cornstalks made a hit, while the
applause shook high Heaven when the home team dis-
tinguished themselves. “Federation is in the air,” but
if Gumsuckers won’t even barrack for Cornstalks it’s
likely to remain there.
At the recent meeting of the subscribers to the Nurses’
Home, presided over by Sir Alfred Stephen, it was stated
that nineteen nurses in that excellent institution had
presented a petition asking that the weekly fee should be
three guineas in every- case, instead of only in infectious
diseases as it is now. The prayer was refused, however,
as the more humane committee would not “ raise then-
charges under existing circumstances. . The present fees
pressing heavily in many cases.” But what does the latter-
day Betsy Prig—more conventional in attire and not so in*
temperately rubicund as that ancient person, perhaps,
but with all her predatory instincts strong within her—
care whether charges press heavily or not ? Unlike their
sublime leader—Florence Nightingale—the average pro-
fessional nurse takes to nursing first in the lively hope
that some young medico’s, or rich bachelor-patient’s
heart may become entangled in the long gossamer veil,
and when all the single sawboneses choose other mates
and all the rich-bachelor patients merely chuck her under
the chin and go no further, then “Duckey” Sister Dora
turns her attention to running her noble calling for all its
monetary worth.
Here is a little story come to me from Melbourne about
a little married lady who identifies herself with amateur
theatricals and indulges in platonics with a nice young
man. Wishing to bind him closer to her side she had her
photo, taken on the model of a cigarette goddess and sent
it to him as a Christmas card. Now the nice young man
is more her husband's friend than her “ mash,” and think-
ing that matters were getting a bit too confidential for
him ho pasted the photo- to the unfortunate Benedict, a
warning as to what his wife is equal to on a pinch.
Correct details of the gorgeous awfulness of the photo,
aren’t to hand, but I learn vaguely that the lady is repre-
sented reclining on a lofty rock in a very cool and econo-
mical costume. What a Happy New Year her husband
must be having!
Yours affectionately,
SAPPHO SMITH.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Theatre Royal. “Aladdin.”
Her Majesty's.. “A Midsummer Nights
Dx-eam.”
Criterion. “ Friends.”
Cyclorama Battle of Gettysburg.
School of Arts Harry Rickards’ Company
Exhibition Building The Silbon-Stirks.
Palace Museum The Mermaid.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Theatre Royal “ Cinderella.”
Princess’ “ That Doctor Cupid.”
Opera House “ Fun on the Bristol.”
Alexandra “ Judge Not.”
Athbn.eum Hall Snazelle.
St. George’s Hall “ Arabian Nights."
Victoria Hall Novelty Company.
The pantomime of “Aladdin,” more by
aid of its shapely legs than its metrical feet, con-
tinues to walk right into the public affections.
The music to which changes, entrances, and exits
are made, marches, dances, and feats performed,
has been carefully selected, and, in some oases,
creditably composed by Conductor Dedriokson,
late of Melbourne Royal, but that of the songs is,
almost without exception, trashy and thoroughly
well matched by the trumpery accompanying
words. During the past week numerous “ cuts ”
have been made, and it is now possible to behold
the harlequinade and catch the last “railway ” at
King-street. The ramshackle old building seems
to have taken a fresh lease of life; among
other much-needed alterations the ascent to
Olympus is now comparatively easy. We
have previously neglected to chronicle the
great success of the national song, “Free and
United Australia,” sung by Jennie Lee, who,
however, is not in any way overpowered with
“ business ”of any kind. When theatrical entre-
preneurs espouse a cause in this bold manner there
can be little doubt as to its popularity. The
enthusiasm excited by this enunciation of national
sentiment is thrown in bold relief by the in-
difference displayed to the “ What’s the matter
with Carrington ? He’s all right!” number.
At Sydney Her Majesty’s the “ Midsum-
mer Night’s Dream” continues to advance in
public favour. The performance is now, of course,
more rapidly gone through, and the mechanical
effects possible at this house, the withdrawal of
scenes bodily by the wings, and the substitution of
fresh ones from beneath or overhead does away with
many of the wearisome waits otherwise inevitable.
Amoug other improvements may be cited the extra-
ordinary velocity with which Bessie Colville now
starts off “to put a girdle round the earth.” The
Dream may have a long run, but in absence of
any managerial declaration as to its extent, it
would be well for those who contemplate a visit
to seize an early opportunity.
** * #
The music-hall singer’s leading characteristic
is said to be lack of humour, but a want of adapta-
bility consequent probably on the former pecu-
liarity is even more obtrusive. At Sydney School
of Arts a stout little man named Murphy sings
an ear-shifting, anti - Home - rule ballad called
“Hands across the Say,” in wh'ch the main-
tenance of the Union from sentimental motives is
insisted on. Now, as the hands on one side of
the “ say ” grip magazine-rifles, gags, crowbars,
and prison-keys, while those on the other brandish
bludgeons and boulders, Australian audiences
are not likely to applaud loudly the melodious
dispersion of Unionist doctrines. The same singer
stentoriously breathes a prayer for the corona-
tion of Mr. and Mrs. Tummy. Such an ascen-
sion depends wholly on the death or abdi-
cation of Victoria-long may she luxuriate!
—and is therefore, treasonable, but we have no fear:
the petition will be drowned in the mighty chorus
of “ God Save the Queen ” that goeth up night and
day wherever two or three grovellers are assembled
together. However popular such songs may be in
Cockneydom cosmopolitan Australian audiences
feel unutterably bored whenever they hear them.
The character-acting and singing of Mr. and Mrs.
Rickards continue to provoke great enthusiasm,
and the dancing of Ada Delroy is more fetching
than anything of its kind given in Sydney for
some time. A matinee performance especially
intended for ladies and clxildren is given every
Saturday afternoon at popular prices.
#* * *
On Monday the Silbon-Stirk combination
enter on their last performing week in Australia,
as they have already arranged to appear in South
America at no very distant date. Of the show
it need only be said that those who now neglect to
visit the Exhibition Building are not likely for
many a day to have a chance of seeing so skilful,
graceful, and sensational an entertainment.
Matinee performances especially suited to ladies
and children are given every Saturday afternoon.
-A * * -#
At the Palace Museum the Midgets and
Professor Jensen are now entering on their last
week after a very successful season. “The Mer-
maid,” a sea-syren of singular attractiveness, and
other novelties are announced. Mademoiselle
Josephine, who shakes hands with thousands of
people daily, has accepted, it is said, the office of
official hand-shaker to the much-fatigued Governor
Hopetoun. In this position it may be guaranteed
that she will send an electric thrill right to the
great heart of the community.
** # *
At Bondi Aquarium, now under the
management of Alfred Wyburd, late of the
Ash field grounds, the Van Tassells will make a
balloon ascent and parachute descent on Saturday
next
«- * * *-
The Cyclorama, a show of which it may be
said that “ age cannot wither, nor custom stale its
infinite variety,” still battles vigorously with the
never-ending stream of rivals for public favour.


American Elgin Watches. Awarded two
Gold Medals, Melbourne Centennial International
Exhibition, 1888, being higher awards than any
'ther Exhibition of Watches obtained.
Artificial Teeth (high-class dentistry) at Reform
Fees. Full Set Vulcanite, £5; Gold and Vulca-
nite, £10; Gold, £l5. Nitrous Oxide Gas daily,
10s. fid. J. I. Marshall, Dentist. Only address-
-410 George-strfiet, Sydney.
Mrs. Rickards, known at one time, both
in private and public life, as Miss Kate Leete, is
a native of Melbourne, and was reared in Nelson,
N.Z., where she first took to the show business,
when, in 1873, she joined the Lottie troupe of
gymnasts. In ’7B she became Mrs. Rickards in
America, and her husband, unwilling that she
should longer be exposed to the danger attending
lerial performances, at once diverted her un-
doubted talents into another channel. The
success attending her efforts as a singing soubrette
of a somewhat less boisterous type than that of
the ordinary music-hall artist is too well-known
and appreciated to need comment, and doubtless
Airs. Rickards, now rapidly gaining strength
after a protracted attack of rheumatic-fever, has
a long and brilliant career before her. In another
column appears a picture of the lady attired
in the yachting costume which she dons as
Tootsie Sloper in the “Land-lubber.” The
Rickards’ Comedy Company, now playing at the
School of Arts, leave shortly for Brisbane where
they are great favourites.
** * *
At Sydney Criterion “ Friends ” continues
to hold the boards. A more finished performance
Sydney people have rarely, if ever, seen. The
haU scene, painted by Mr. Spong, with its massive
built-out staircase, a fireplace-filled alcove over-
hung by a carved mantel-shelf, a gorgeous can-
delabra, and many shields and trophies of the
chase, is particularly striking; but the second
scene, that of “my lady’s bower,” an effort
of Mi\ Churchward’s brush in pale yellow,
if less demonstrative is equally artistic and
commendable. George Anson, as the fire-eating
Irishman, continues to make the most of a
part so small that many an actor of much less
reputation might have declined to take it. The
character is a mere excrescence that has nothing to
do with the unfolding of the story and therefore
any attempt of Mr. Anson’s to elaborate his
business would interfere with the action of the
play. When this is taken into consideration his
self-abnegation is cruelly rewarded by the unin-
telligent denunciation awarded it in some quarters.
The Mrs. Dawson of Mrs, Brough is now worthy
to be classified with her “ Squire Verity,” in fact
there is a marked improvement all round,
** * *
Melbourne shows, from the Pantomime to
Kreitmayer’s Waxworks, revelled in prosperity
throughout New Year’s week. Solid agriculturists
from the interior sat around the various temples
of Thespis in their store clothes, filling the atmos-
phere with blent aromas of new-mown hay and
ardent spirits. The jaded townsman’s eye rested
gratefully upon smiling clusters of happy child-
hood, interspersed with bunches of bucolic brides
and bridegrooms, who mostly rested their heads
upon one another’s shoulders and squeezed until
the perspiration rolled off them. Altogether it
was a week of indiscriminating satisfaction and
honeymoony delight. This introduction is in-
tended to explain why “That Doctor Cupid”
appears to have caught on at the Princess’s.
There is no point, moral, or human interest in
the thing. A girl’s first attempt at pie-crust is
not more hopelessly heavy than Buchanan’s
bogus humour. To give a sample of the
author’s elephantine wit —one among a crowd
of giggling females is named “Mrs. Veale,” in
order that an uxorious old man may say, “Are
you tender, Veale ?” And this melancholy drivel
fetches a laugh from people who would roar the
louder if Mrs. Veale were called Mrs. Tooth, and
her mash croaked, “ Say that you are not a false
Tooth!” —or made an equally puerile play upon
any other name. A dead circus clown is funnier
than “That Doctor Cupid,” if you strip the
“comedy” of its silks, velvets and scenic acces-
sories, and look at it in all its literary nakedness.
Moreover, in his effort to imitate the decently-
veiled naughtiness of W. S. Gilbert, the clumsier
Buchanan has slapped in one or two lines coarse
enough to lose a London music-hall its license.
They are almost as indecent as daily newspapers,
*- * * *
Widow O’Brien is blazing away with un-
abated fury, at the Opera House, and “ Judge
Not ” seems to be growing on a sympathetic
public at the Alexandra. Without question Miss
Lily Dampier shows a marked improvement upon
her kindred performance in “ The World Against
Her,” while the present drama is not so full of
tears as the former narrative of persecuted virtue.
A tragedian with a coal-black thatch, who ulti-
mately forsakes the “legitimate” and takes to
singing “ Good Old Mary Ann,” is generally
about when required to drive dull care away. Air.
Dampier developes a strong turn for fun in this
part, and Aliss Russell, always at home in extrava-
gant comedy, assists the tragedian to make things
as joyful as possible under the circumstances. The
farmyard scene is still charged with weird realism
by live roosters and things, and a mechanical
change, in the fourth act, may be honestly summed
up as one of the biggest things of its kind ever
done in this country up to date.
*& & *
The Royal pantomime hasn’t improved
thus far, except in the matter of being shorter
than it was on Boxing Night. “ Cinderella ”is a
sad and weary piece of splendour, full of nearly
everything but sense. Whoever undertook to
sling the libretto together, evidently hadn’t a
gleam of poetry in his soul at the time, and very
likely he hadn’t got any soul. The jokes are-
about as thin as the new Governor, and the talk
which isn’t supposed to be jokes is duller than
elephant’s breath. The songs, too, would seem
pretty bad if the music were not rather worse—in
fact, the whole production resembles a lump of
mud set in diamonds. Of the performers, Air.
William Walton and a human donkey are the only
real successes, their knockabout business being
of the kind which knowing young men call
“awfully clever,” and children laugh at until
they know better. Yet too much of such fooling
makes even graveyards yawn. Little Mr. James
Stevenson is also a mildly successful Ugly Sister,
while Mr. Howard Vernon just walks through
the companion part in long skirts. Every now
and then Mr. Marnock puts in a ponderous
appearance, he being supposed to have some
chuckle-headed connection with the plot. Mr.
Fred Neebe might be a lot worse than he is, so
might Aliss Fanny Liddiard, but Cinderella and
the other lovely girls are very tiring. They can’t
help it much, because the pantomime is mostly
to blame. The lovely girls referred to are not in-
cluded in a chorus of about half a million strong,
who have nothing much to sing if they could sing it,
but just come on in changes of costume and add
to the splendid misery by trying to kick a foot-
ball, or standing in a gaudy, uninteresting lino.
A short and painful harlequinade is not likely to
do much for “Cinderella,” which can scarcely
last for three months (like last year’s), unless they
introduce a circus into the historic kitchen, or a
boxing-match into the Prince’s court. It would
be worth the Firm’s while, perhaps, to engage
General and Airs. Alite.
“ The Arabian Nights,” a really smart
farcical comedy, was set up at St. George’s Hall,
instead of niggers, last Saturday night. It has
never before had a fair show in Melbourne, and as
only one “ parlour ’’-scene is required for the three
acts, and Air. Harry St. Maur is seen to most ad-
vantage in a small house, there seems to be no
reason why the new departure shouldn’t be a
howling success. Nothing can be more natural
than his style of taking his wife, niece, or any
girl who comes handy, on his married knee.
I here is a deal of human nature in that, and
manyother portions of “ The Arabian Nights.”
The “ gutta percha ” girl, who smokes cigarettes,
is a delicious feature, and the Cogills are quite as
acceptable in their way without being quite so
beautiful. Snazelle, at the Athenasum, is doing
good business, also the Victoria Hall varieties and
sundry other shows, as usual.
*- -'if * -;i:-
Madame Marion Burton, the new contralto
who has been singing with Santley at Melbourne
I own Hall, is an intoxicating combination of
melody, beauty and flashing jewels. Her voice
makes the audience want to close their eyes and
dream, her beauty is a direct incentive to keep
them open, and her diamonds dazzle ’em when
they look towards her. After knocking the old
men and maidens comparatively silly with her
rich tones and precious stones, Madame Burton
is off to the land of the moa, whither Santley,
engineered by R. S. Smythe, sets sail shortly.
Smythe has a natural affection for the land of the
moa_, which is alleged to be as downy an old bird
as himself.
*m « *
“Little Lord Fauntleroy” is a great
boom at the Theatre Royal, Adelaide. Olive
KATIE RICKARDS,
AS CAPT. TOOTSIE IN GARNET WALCH’S NAUTICAL NIGHTMARE, “THE LAND-LUBBER.”
Berkley and Grade Hopkins have made many
friends, but the general opinion in Adelaide is
that the latter’s impersonation of the little aristo-
crat is the better. Miss Winthrop, Mrs.
Berkley, Henry Edwards, W. H. Leake, George
Leopold, and others are well cast, and the show,
taken altogether, is excellent. Joe Davies is ar-
ranging for an opera season to follow. Fitz-
gerald’s circus, with Harry Lyons at the helm,
has been gathering in plenty of coin.
* *K- #
A Melbourne paper says that there is no
doubt Ibsen’s “Doll’s House” will pay in the
long run. So it will—if it ever gets a long run.
=& *
It is cabled that the long, lean, divine
Sarah narrowly escaped being burnt to ashes and
dust while playing the Maid of Orleans in Paris.
When she was tied to the stake the surrounding
faggots took fire before their time, and Sarah
was rescued from conflagration with the utmost
difficulty.
In that famous historical part
She nearly got wafted aloft —
They went to see Sarah Bernhardt,
But not to see Sarah burn soft.
** * *
Miln, the tragedian, must wish he were
back again in his snug Unitarian Church, Chicago,
with a regular screw of £4O a week. Walters’
theology would have carried him along. But it is
an awful thing to be stage-struck. For instance,
the Rev. A. Macully has just had two photo-
graphs of himself, in costume as Hamlet, stuck up
at Batchelder’s, on the Oollins-street Block.
Macully is the Melbourne Unitarian clergyman.
Is he going back to the stage ? He begun as a
histrion 20 years ago, with noble aspirations of
witching the world as Othello and Richelieu, but
alas ! he found himself a super at Melbourne
Theatre Royal, where some of our readers will
remember him, under the aspiring name of
Howard, as a companion of Dan Barry, who has
managed to scramble up into a manager. Macully
turned it up, and bravely went back to school, at
Scotch College, Melbourne, from whence he went
to Trinity College, Dublin, and got a big name for
his elocution. As old Jimmy Johnson, the
prompter, used to say, “ When they’ve once
rubbed their shoulders agin the scenes, it is all
o ver. ”
At Poverty Point.
Nothing succeeds like success. Grattan Riggs receives
a testimonial from a heap of Melbourne journalists,
statesmen, and others, because of the noble educational
work he has done with the “ Irish Detective” and “ Shin
Fane.” Miln is shabbily sent away Without any testi-
monial. Of course his Hamlet, Marc Antony and
Richard HI. have only been demoralising agencies. But
Miln courted ruin. Everyone told him beforehand how
Antony and Cleopatra would turn out. A manager led
by his wife is even worse off than one led by his Elective
Affinity. _ Never mind, Miln has a future. He will yet be
heard of in London, with his King Dick.
Nellie Barren denies that she intends to settle in
Sydney. She intends to return thither on the earliest
opportunity, but “ cannot forget that London is her per-
manent dwelling place and the capital of her nation.” No
one else can forget it either once she opens her mouth.
A terrible row has occurred in a Sydney musical society
over the engagement of outside talent for solos on show-
nights.
To study the human form divine visit the theatres.
You can study the lower portion on the stage, the upper
in the dress-circle.
Cablegrams are contradictory with regard to the suc-
cess of Myra Kemble’s London performance.
In the old days of the Sydney Vic. on one occasion the
manager asked the scenic artist why he had not painted a
certain scene. “Because,” replied the artist, “ I have
no paints—nothing but glue.” “Then, d —n it,” said the
manager, “paint it with glue.” Fact.
Several Victorian legislators arriving at Invercargill by
the Tarawera, lately, were warmly welcomed. The locals
mistook them for the acrobats and clowns of the circus
company travelling by same boat.
When Manager Williamson was smiting the “soft”
balls for “ fourers ” and slipping them for “ twoers,” at
the Rushcutter’s Bay cricket-ground on New Year’s Day,
said an actor to a critic: “The Stingarees are giving
Jimmy a good show, ain’t they ?” To which replied the
critic: “Quid 'pro quo , old man, he gives them one
occasionally.”
“Johnny” Toole, who is to bo in Australia at Easter,
has been grievously environed by death of late. A few
years ago he lost his only son. The year 18S9 has been
rendered mournful to him by the death of his only
daughter, his wife, his brother, and the best young actor
in his company. E. D. Ward.
Arabella Goddard, who is now extremely poor, has been
compelled by ill-health to retire from teaching.
There is nothing much pleasanter than to sit next and
be fanned by a pretty girl in the dress-circle whom you
don’t know and whose seat, opera-glass, bouquet, bon-
bons, and hansom cost the unfanned fellow on the other
side about a fiver.
Marie Tempest is now ranked prima donna of English
comic opera.
Carlisle G. Smythe, son of the Much-Travelled,” is
giving his father valuable assistance, in running Santley.
A chip of the old block ! The younger man is a B.A. of
Melbourne University, and will be a replica of his father
in time.
It is said that the hair of 5000 human beings (dead-
heads ?) are required to supply the wigs for Barnum’s
Nero.
H. R. Harwood, before finally retiring from the stage,
will revive the “ Private Secretary,” in conjunction with
Frank Thornton, at Sydney Gaiety, at Easter. Harwood’s
real name is Biggs ; he adopted the more euphonious one
on taking to the stage. As he had previously been a car-
penter he might more appropriately have called himself
Hardwood.
Harper’s Monthly has an illustrated paper on all the
Hamlets. We were trying to piece together the por-
tentious list of those who had been seen in Australia :
Adams, Anderson, Edwin Booth, Brooke, Buchanan,
Miss Cleveland, Dampier, Defries, Dillon, Hose Evans,
Fairclough, Flemming, Heir, Holloway, Clarence Holt,
Hoskins, Howe, Ireland, C. Kean, Morton King, Mad-
docks, Montgomery, Miln, Nesbitt, Louise Pomeroy, Stark,
Sullivan, Tavares, H. N. Warner, C. Warner.
Twenty-four years ago G. V. Brooke, the tragedian
“ went down” in the s.s. London in the Bay of Biscay.
Jock the Stripper.
A BACK-BLOCKS LOVE-STORY.
His name, you see, is Jock, not Jack and he was
called the Stripper because lie was and is an
authority on that instrument for garnering the
harvest.
Jock always worked at Drumlachie, the pro-
perty of Lachlan Drum, who selected and dum-
mied half of Mother Whackby’s station.
For two years there was a bit of a shindy at
harvest-time, for Jock (here I must state that his
proper name is Denis Michael MacMahon) in-
sisted on openly paying his addresses to Flora
Roy, Mrs. Drum’s sister, one of the dummies
alluded to. Flo. came down to cook and be
generally-useful during harvest, as well as to ease
her conscience as to the residence-clause. Now,
old Drum did not care the usual coin whether
Jock married Flora or not after her residence was
completed, but until he had the title-deeds (forhe,
Drum, had advanced the cash and completed the
improvements) he saw danger of offending Jock or
looking crosswise at Flo., the latter being of age.
Harvest-time, as I said, was the only danger,
and Mr. and Mrs. Drum thought they could keep
the chappie and the lassie fully employed and far
enough apart to prevent undue cordiality and
affection. But love laughs, &c.
The Drums daily made Flora cook three square
and two extraneous meals for the men ; and about
18 or 10 for the kids, so her hands and time were
accounted as safe from popsy-wopsying. They
made Jock go out for the horses in the morning
and take a snack when Flo. was attending to the
children’s breakfast. He was then seen no more
till night when his rum (one go) and tea (ad. lib)
made him sleepy and he retired to his virtuous
couch, whilst the object of his affections washed
up and spanked the youngsters to their virtuous
couches—l mean couch, for they had what drovers
call a round camp.
This was all very well, supposing that Jock and
Co. had no brains, but even an ordinarily acute
cocky and his wife would not think they’d rope in
a meenister to conspire to outwit the Land Act.
At any rate, the Rev. Sandy Macdiarmid wrote
to Mrs. Drum as follows :
The Manse, Yallaboi, Ist April, 1888.
Dear Madam, —l purpose visiting you and the rest of
my Presbyterian Flock at your station [note the subtlety
of the man, it was only a lot of selections] on Sabbath the
next. I may turn up late on Saturday, but please do not
make any preparations.
Yours in the Lord,
Alexander Macdiarmid, A.M.
Mrs. D. killed two very old cocks, which Scotty
the cook refused to operate upon unless stewed in
rum; the rum went where rum goes when Scotty
is near. All the stuffing in the world could not
have made those roosters palatable, but they
looked well, and, backed up with a ham, a sucking-
pig (cold), and lots of mutton and rum, the people
of that particular lord had a lordly feast. Before
that took place something more serious had oc-
curred. On Saturday afternoon Jock tore his
shirt so badly that all the bagging-twine and
needles could not mend it. This occurred just
when Mrs. Drum was driving Bob or Maggie
(some old screw) up from the house to the paddock
with a milk-can full of tea and some of Scotty’s
forty-rod cakes. Jock ran down to get a change
of linen. You can’t work an hour in the sun in
N.S. Wales without a shirt. From this out I’ll
leave my readers to work out their own conclusions.
When Jock returned to work lie had on lus
boiled shirt and gold studs, t
When Mrs. Drum arrived at her house with the
empty milk-can she found her sister Flora, like the
man with the devils, clothed and in her right
mind and looking so happy. This was attributed
to the arrival of his reverence, who was also
radiant. (N.B. —Three guineas always brings a
smile).
And so and so and so, until tea-time when Jock
and Flo did not turn up. Where could they be ?
The tea was made and stewed and the hash was
by the fire, and Mother Drum had to disli it up
and serve it. At tea or supper Mr. Macdiarmid
said grace and called for a blessing on the young
people who had entered together in the venture-
some journey of double life. Drum twigged it,
but the missus didn’t even suspect until that arch-
hypocrite, the minister, said : “ I suppose Mr.
and Mrs. MacMahon will continue to work for
you ?”
And now I’ve given you the lot, except that
Jock has now taken up a slice of Mother
Whackby’s paddocks and a happy husband he is.
He owes Drum nothing, and Mrs. Jock refers
that gentleman to her husband when he talks
business. Ladies, gentlemen, and common rub-
bish —Marriage is not a failure.
SCOTTY THE WRINKLER.
You may not reconstruct a ruined house
by the use ef its disintegrated materials, but you
can restore a shattered constitution by the aid of
Marshall’s Tonic Nervine.
A friendless old gentleman of Leeds, Eng.,
who recently turned up his toes left seven thousand
pounds to a poor man who used to see him home
when “ slightly rocky” from his favourite “pub.”
A legacy of five thousand to a neighbouring
church compounded for the “rockiness.”
Information has reached us that Messrs.
H. H. Warner & Co. of Safe Cure fame have sold
their big concern with the many branch establish-
ments to a London syndicate at the figure of, it is
said, one million Stirling. Mr. H. H. Warner
does not severe his connection with the firm, but
retains a considerable interest in the business.
Matthew Davies, the £2OO-robed Speaker
of the Victorian Assembly, has been created a
knight of the Noble Order of the Grovel, in con-
sideration of his parliamentary dinners, distin-
guished services in the cause of the land-boom,
and private kindness to the late Governor. His
professional piety would have better warranted
Victoria Regina in creating this well-mannered,
not to say courtly, person Saint Matthew. For
the present, however, Matthew must rest con-
tented, and if he can show any cause or reason—
save his money—why he deserves to be addressed
as Sir Davies, instead of Mr. Davies, let him
declare it.—
Dear Sir Matthew Davies,
Knights in their own gravies
Plain folks allow to stew;
The Queen you sing to save is
So good —across the wave is
A title sent for you.
Dear Sir Matthew Davies
The path to “ Fame ” to pave is
Quite easy, when you’ve gold,
Fine house, and lots of “ slavies.”
(Such “ Fame,” though, to the grave is
Consigned when you are cold.)


Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
A literary treat for Australians abroad
and for absent friends of Australian readers of Thk
Bulletin : “ A Golden Shanty—Australian stories
and sketches in prose and verse by Bulletin
writers.” The brightest, best and most original
shilling book ever published in this country. Send
it to your English friends whom Sladen’s Anthology
has disgusted. One shilling; postage in Australia
sd. extra.
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
WOLFE’S SCHNAPPS!
... . ■
Be on your guard for Frauds when purchasing.
Bona-Fide announcement. Highest cash price
given for all kinds of gent’s left off clothing.
Dress-suits for sale or hire. Letters promptly
attended to by QUITTENTON BROS., 11l
Russell street, MELBOURNE (New number,
im. )
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
At Mark Young s Pier Hotel, Frankston, near
Melbourne, superior accommodation for visitors.
Fresh and salt-water baths in house, close to sea
baths. Horses and buggies for hire.
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
Photography. —The established and well-known
firm of Creelman & Co., Photographers, in the
Sydney Arcade, beg to announce to their numerous
clientele and the public generally that the price of
their Cabinet Photographs is now reduced to
16s. per dozen. The common objection raised by
many, “that our photographs were very good,
but too dear,” is now taken away. Hesitate no
longer to have a sitting.
Mr. Major Fallback.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Of course Major Fallback wasn’t his real
name. We gave him that name. Not that we
were his legal god - fathers or god_ - mothers.
Nothing of the sort. We were simply the
men under his command. He commanded a
mixed lot —military settlers, defence-force men,
militia-men, and others, in the good old New
Zealand days when Tito-ko-Waru and Te Kooti
made an annual expenditure of a good many
hundreds of thousands of pounds necessary. I
don’t know that Major Fallback ever got called
by that name to his face, but I do know he once
received a written communication thus addressed,
it happened thus : The Major was shifting
quarters down the East coast, and, as usual, had
sent the mounted division on ahead. It was
through “ friendly ” country, but the commissariat
was not too well nor too regularly supplied. At
one native kaianga the mounted boys saw a num-
ber of young pigs, a goodly number of ducks,
fowls, &c. The boys weren’t behindhand at steal-
ing, but the thought flashed across one of them
that perhaps it would be as well to obtain fresh
supplies by fair means if possible. The rangatira
of the native village was interviewed and “ re-
quisitioned” for a supply of fresh meat, the
“ requisition ” being duly drawn up addressed to
“Major Fallback” and signed by Acting-
deputy-assistant-adjutant-general Buggins.” The
aged rangatira accepted the document in perfect
good-faith, the provisions were forthcoming and
were consumed, and the mounted division passed
on. In about a couple of days time the Major
came along, and the “requisition” was imme-
diately presented him.
* * *
He snorted. Explanations were forth-
coming and the Major paid for the provisions,
swearing by all his gods that “ acting-deputy-etc.-
Buggins ” should pay dearly for his insolent libel.
The Major brought the old Maori along with him
and when the mounted division’s camp was
reached a parade was called and the Maori in-
vited to identify “ full-private Buggins.” But,
alas, he couldn’t! In those days the mounted
boys were all light, active
fellows, clean-shaved,
boasting only a mous-
tache, with a small forage-
cap tilted oyer one ear.
The ancient rangatira
said there were 30 of ’em,
he couldn’t tell who it
was, they were all so
much alike. The Major
snorted again, but said
nothing. Months elapsed
and nothing was heard
of “ Major Fallback ” or
“Deputy-assistant Bug-
gins.” During that time
an order was promul-
gated by the regimental
Sergeant-major that all
applications for passes
were to be sent in to the
office in applicant’s own
handwriting. One fatal
day Trooper Hidebound
took it into his head
that he wanted a pass.
Accordingly a slip of
paper found its way into
the orderly-room bearing
the following inscrip-
tion :
Camp, Huranui,
December, 186—.
No 79, Trooper Hidebound
has permission to absent
himself from camp from
9 a.m. 21st inst. until tatoo
22nd inst. Recommended,
A. Smith, Sergt-Major.
* * *
By - and - bye word
was passed along that
Trooper Hidebound was
“ wanted in the orderly-
room.” To these premises
did the trooper betake
himself to find himself
confronted by the Major
himself, his “pass” in
one hand and the “re-
quisition ” to Major Fall-
back in the other!
“ I’ve been waiting for
you a thundering long time, Mr. Buggins,”
said the Major, “so long a time, indeed,
that I was beginning to be afraid that you
had changed your handwriting. Attention,
my man ! It’s of no use talking. I don’t
want to hear any lies. The handwriting’s identical.
You’ll have no pass, Mr. Buggins. Sergeant-
Major, this man will have no pass for six months ;
he’ll have no grog for three months; and his
account will be debited with four times the
amount we paid Te Ropiana for the pigs and the
fowls. That will do, sir, and you may think
yourself thundering lucky you are not court-mar-
tialled. Attention ! Right-about face !”
* *
“Stopping your grog” was a favourite
form of punishment with the Major, The officers
were a hard-drinking lot, and the men’s grog was
a handy and ready supply when their own gave
out—and it was always giving out. In camp of
an evening and the officers’ grog ran out: “ Send
for the sergeant of the guard,” the Major would
say. The sergeant came. “ How many defaulters
in the guard-room, sergeant?”—“Seven, sir.”
4 4 Thanks. Send the commissariat-sergeant here. ”
Enter the commissariat-sergeant. 44 Ah, sergeant.
Send seven men’s grog for fourteen days in.” And
it didn’t matter what those unfortunate seven
men had been guilty of, or whether guilty at all,
their grog for a fortnight had been drunk before
they were tried, so they had to be mulct in that
lot, anyway.
# » *
It was not only in grog the men suffered
in those days, but in pay as well. A command-
ing-officer obtained an advance of, say, £lOOO, to
pay his men with monthly. On receipt of the
pay-sheets for January, amounting, say, to £9OO,
the post-office placed an exactly equivalent amount
to the credit of the commanding-officer’s banking-
account. One commanding-officer used always to
keep hjs men a month behindhand in regard to
pay. The fact was he was exactly that amount
short in his accounts. He’d pay_ his men for
January on the Ist March ; he’d strictly prohibit
the men from leaving camp in order to cash their
cheques, and he’d hurry the pay-sheets away
post-haste. In due time back would come his
credit for February’s pay. He’d pay on this on
Ist April and so on. When he died lots of his
cheques were dishonoured, and are still to be seen
in Maoriland. Another c.o. got his men to sign
what he called duplicate pay-sheets for one month,
but which were in reality pay-sheets for two con-
secutive months. He had also got a shortage of
one month in his accounts, and that is how he
managed it. Another c.o. started what he called
a “ regimental savings-bank.” The depositors
were never squared up with, because when the
“ major ” turned up his toes the “ regimental
savings-bank ” was found non est.
n * *
To hark back to Major Fallback. In
those days all the officers had mistresses, either
Maoris or half-castes —usually the latter. The
Major had a regular daisy—a tall, well-made,
handsome half-caste named Martha. One night
the Major and Martha had a row—nothing very
unusual in that; the sequel was unusual, how-
ever. Martha slipped down to the river
and paddled her canoe across to the
native pah immediately opposite the camp.
Presently the Major came to the bank of the river,
boiling over with indignation, slighted love and
rum. He called on Martha to return home. Martha
replied that the pah was now and would hence-
forth be her home. The Major then demanded the
native chief Kopu to send Martha across. To
this Kopu made reply that he would see the
Major “ boiled ” first, or words to that effect.
The now perfectly enraged Major replied that he
would give Kopu five minutes to return Martha
in, or he’d turn out his men and compel him. To
this threat Kopu returned no answer. The Major
went back to the camp and turned out the guard.
Presently the silence of midnight was broken by
bugle-blasts—the “alarm” and “assembly” rang
out. There was a hurry-scurry to and fro of
hastily-armed men, in a few moments the redoubt
was manned, the bastions garrisoned, the maga-
zine thrown open and the heads of ammunition
kegs knocked in. The Major stood on the wall
of the redoubt, watch in hand, and at the expira-
tion of the five minutes gave the word “Fire I”
♦i
c*3 iQ fl> e. S
“Owing to the heat many were unable to enjoy their New Years dinner."-Daily Paper,
Fortunately, word had been passed round that
“ Old Jemmy had ’em bad,” and the men all fired
high, but f or two mortal hours did “Jemmy”
parade up and down that redoubt, and for two
morta j hours did his men fire away. Fortunately
Kopu was a level-headed old Maori, else there’d
have been a terrible to do in Hawke’s Bay.
Miles away in one direction there was a camp
of the 50th Regiment; thence a company was
immediately sent to the assistance of the
men in “Fallback’s” redoubt who evidently
W anted assistance. When the regulars arrived
it was al i ovei . ; and » Fallback ” had gone to
sleep—to awake with a big head. In other direc-
tions the rattle and the noise was heard. “The
Hau-haus have come !” was the cry. Mounted
messengers were sent round post-haste, families
W ere carted into the blockhouses and the redoubts,
sentries and patrols posted everywhere, and a
very anxious night was passed. There was a great
row about this escapade, of course, but the Major
l ia j powerful and influential friends ;of course he
called it a ‘ false alarm ;’he did not tell the authori-
ties the part Martha played in this little emeute,
and j don’t think the true version has ever found
its way into print till now.
BAKBLOX.
The “Barcoo Thunderer’s” Christmas
Leading Article.
(NOW FIRST PUBLISHED.)
“ Christmas has come again. What joy and
peace does it bring in its train for the lonely
settlers of the Barcoo country, the enterprising
pioneers of this far-off clime’—[ Hello.
Stroggles, old boy ! Come out and have a drink.
Don’t see any of your crowd up here very often.
Come and lubricate ”] —“ who must feel a sense ot
repose and thankfulness to the Supreme Being for
his Providence during the past year. ihe effects
of that grim and unwelcome visitor, the drought,
have lately been very trifling indeed, and we feel
sure that when all things are considered —[must
have another soda. Can’t write a little bit this
morning] —“it will be admitted that the
year 1889 has been a very satisfactory one
for our colonists in the Barcoo country.
Christmas—what memories does it bring of
a happy period in the world’s history though
to some it may bring unpleasant memories. 1 hey
will mingle sadness with their festivities, and the
true Christian, practising what he preaches
[“ Damn it; can’t write a bit. Must get a soda
and brandy ”] —“ will at least recognise that what
brings sadness to some brings joy to others, and
that when the good things of this world are dis-
tributed we shall all have a fair share of its bless-
ings, and have to bear our fair share of its troubles.
Best of all—and it is necessary in the pioneer
settler—the man who keeps a clear head L I eel
a swimming sensation. Must try a rum mui
limejuice. I think it would set me right ”]— for
his business and practices practises _ intemper
—temperance in all things recognising that
temperance as a commodity is the best of all
blessings. Why cannot the benefits of this
priceless commodododity be made more widely
known ? Is it —is it because as a matter of fact
the settlers on the Barcoocoo country country are
never in, never in need of any temperance instruc-
tion ? We would like to think so, but we fear that
it only too apparent that they are are victims to
the fearful curse of intemperance. The curse of
drink —and espeshshially the poison that is sold
up thish way—is gaining” —[“Good grashious,
Jim! is that you? Come down to the pub.
Don’t shee the old fashish very often—hie !’ ]—
“Yesh, berhoys, Chrishttiish hash come—letsh
all mingle in the flowin’ bole, and all drink
Chrishmush’s health in three times three, and
shay that the bhoys on the Barcooer country
are going to shpread themshelves out once a year
if they have to bust for it! We are going to bring
out a speshial Chrismush number that will be_a
speshial agony, a corrugated fire-brand that will
lick everything published on thish shide of the
equatorial Plimsoll mark. D’ye hear me ? The
Barooo Thun—hic—derer is a red-hot, all live
paper—who shays it isn’t ? Prodush the shman
here who has anything to shay against the Bae-
coosh Thunderbrsh, and we’ll exshterminate
him! Oneesh more, bhoys, here’s to all of you,
and may yer have a Merry Krishmush an’ Happy
N’ Year!” E. M. Watts.
The “ saide Lord God ” occurs in the will
of the father of English real-property law, Sir
Thomas Lyttleton ; “ First, I bequeath my soul
to Almighty God, Fader, Sonne, and Hollye
Ghost, and to our most blessed lady and virgin
saynt, Mary, moder of our Lord and Jesus Christ,
the only begotten sonne of our saide Lord God,
the Fader of Heven, and to St. Christopher, the
which our saide Lord God did truste to here on
bus shoulders,” etc.
The Melbourne Premier Permanent Build-
ing Society might as well have stuck to its little
Mirams. What a satire is the name Permanent!
Such societies are outcomes of the conventicle. _ A
man goes to chapel, and is inveigled in a pious
little job. If Mr. Goshen is a director, it must be
a good thing. Now, the genesis of Mirams runs
thus : His father, the Rev. J. Mirams, had three
sons, all little booksellers, in Collingwood. James
emerged from the ruck. He wormed his way into
Parliament. Then he built up the Permanent
Premier Building Society. It was hardly a secret
that this name embodied his ambition to emulate
such men as Service and Berry in the political
Premiership. Nimtno joined with him, and the
pair have done it.
The ’Guana.
[Fob The Bulletin.]
Sunday languors lapped the splitter,
Sabbath softness filled the air,
Careless of ohaotie litter,
Tranced by whistle, rill, and twitter,
Seeming faint and far, and fitter,
Much to lull the angels fair.
Lolled I in my canvas lair.
Then stole through the eve of sleeping—
Twilight of the soul’s soft night—
Scabrous-skinned and long tail sweeping,
Such a reptile, shyly peeping,
As in buried ages creeping
Scientists have found to fright
Modern mammals with their might.
Came he waddling and twisting,
O’er the frame log queerly bent.
Swung his scirrhous head-piece glist’ning
In the sunbeams, cutely list’ning.
Vaguely dreamed I of resisting
His felonious intent,
Though still semi-somnolent.
Lazily I sought invective,
But my poppied, passive eye
Lent the beast a grim perspective,
Saw incisors so effective
That —’twere best to show respect if
I were not in haste to die —
Low I murmured with a sigh :
Beast of Mesozoic seeming
Nodding at my open door,
Why disturb my dim day-dreaming
With your deferential beaming,
With your sly and saucy scheming,
With your look of lurid lore ?
Have we ever met before ?
Why obtrude, you graceless grinner.
On my gastronomic scheme ?
After such a Sunday dinner
Sacerdotal saint or sinner
Should respect his burdened inner
Man, and fain I’d doze and dream,
Lulled by lispings of the stream.
Saurian sardonic, dating,
Like the Ursus spelaus,
8.0. years beyond our stating,
Why before my tent-door waiting
With your armpits palpitating,
Do you ply and plague me thus,
Like a vinous incubus ?
Get you back to sandstone strata,
Back to tertiary creeks,
Haunt the pre-historic martyr
To dyspepsy— Quick ! depart ere
Life or limb you leave in barter
For this freedom ! Why such freaks—
Have I tasted rum for weeks ?
Return again to fossil fauna—
Back, and bask in plastic clay.
11l betide you, brutish soorner;
Loaded in a handy corner
Stands my gun, I—what! old yawner?
Well you put me clean away,
Guess I’ll drink no more to-day.
Come in, bandy, scrawny, blinking
Old ’guana ! ain’t we chums ?
Beauty’s not your forte I’m thinking,
What odds, Grim, I feel no shrinking
As when first you came here drinking
From your high, umbrageous gums—
Yes, you’re welcome to the crumbs.
Rather warm you 100k —don’t hug me.
Here is water, all you wish.
This ham bone should fit you snugly,
That slack cuticule is ugly.
Saintly now you look and smugly,
Like an elder Chadbandish
After grace and soup and fish.
What I expecting more to follow?
Sample Johnson’s scraggy junk.
Sainted Caesar ! what a swallow !
Sword engulfers you’d beat hollow
And in public wonder wallow,
But from fame you’ve ever shrunk—
Nay, old sort, not on the bunk.
See, though having no objection
To your wooing here a while,
Care not I for close connection;
Rather save your warm affection
For a friend of like complexion ;
Though I hold you free from guile,
Yet I worship not your style.
’Neath an outside corrugated
Beats a heart not wholly dust,
Sentiments are there located ;
Gratitude has stimulated
Looks that speak me overrated—
Proud I am to hold your trust,
Reptile of corneous crust.
Few think social emotions
Glow in such a queer old file,
But I know your sage devotion’s
Not all for the “ chuck ” and “ lotions,”
Sure am I you’ve friendly notions.
That’s an all-sufficient smile,
Cousin to a crocodile.
Soulful, calm and suave serenenesa
Your demeanor dignify,
Whilst a thoughtful, hungry leanness
Certifies to mental keenness,
And the patent lack of greenness
In your dancing diamond eye
Tells me plainly you are “ fly.’*
Ever did distress or flurry
Your decided movements jog?
Hello ! Saurian, what hurry ?
Thunder ! can’t the cripple scurry ?
Safe again from wrath and worry
Reaches he the hollow log.
Hang that nigger’s yellow dog !
EDWARD DYSON.


Sofiem &„fcie6i,w66 IcoEfict
CuA-cC) JSo'i&b a fuS>
ciac&d.
f
ƒ
F. B, WHEELER & 00 M
Clarence Street. SIMKV,
I a
ini
Watch Manufacturer & Jeweller,
813 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
(Nearly opposite Railway Station).
For Watches and Jewellery, send for my Price List
(Illustrated). Post Free.
rtf*—. The Unrivalled Keyless Watch.
Guaranteed. Post Free.
Gent.’s English Levers (full cap) from £3 10s.
Ladies’ Beautiful Silver Watches from £1 10a.
Gold Watches and Jewellery of every description.
Country Residents and Visitors to Sydney call or send
to A. SAUNDERS, 813 George Street (nearly opposite
Railway Station), SYDNEY.
Mahomet was fined £6 last week for
hawking goods round Melbourne without a license.
A Melbourne paper has discovered that
paste was in use 400 years B. C. Another doubt
cast on the originality of the Scriptures.
For Abuse of Alcohol
USE iiorsford’s acid phosphate.
Dr. Edw. Young, L.K.Q.C.P., and F.R.0.5., Hounslow,
says: “ I used it with marked success in nervous prostra-
tion and insomnia, and found it especially useful in such
cases which have resulted from the too free use of
stimulants.”
IMG
fCELEBRRT^
M
. rr. i
Ik M
m
ƒ
LgURORA; IND
Personal Items.
Parnell’s opponents are trying to “ Dilke *
him.
Burdett Smith is now a C.M.G. He
always was one in his heart.
Queen Victoria will visit Ireland in the
summer. She will get a wintry reception.
Sculler Haulan, we read, “has taken to
the stage.” The worn-out stage, very likely.
“ The Vagabond ” says that a man should
never eat or drink on a hot day till sundown.
The Duke of Fife is a silent partner in the
banking houses of Herries, Farquhar and Go.,
and Scott and Co.
There are six Queen’s Counsel at the
N.S.W. Bar, while two-Michie and Purves—
suffice in Melbourne.
Rev. Charles Clark, the only first-class
lecturer Australia has ever heard, is returning by
the Orient after many years’ absence.
Governor Hopetoun and suite, after hear-
ing the Rev, Marshall preach on Sunday mornings,
make a bee-line for the Melbourne Club, where
the soda is 0001.
It is stated that the Messrs. Alison hold
under lease and license from the N.S.W. Govern-
ment no less than 1,090,848 acres (or 17,000 square
miles) of Grown lands.
Daniel Ferron has gone to the Benevolent
Asylum. Some years ago he was owner of the
reef which bears his name and out of which he
took £50,000 worth of gold.
The salary of the first Governor of what
is now Victoria, Colonel David Collins, was £4BO
a year. He held “ office ” just three months and
removed the “colony ' on the 31st January, 1804.
Mr. John Armstrong, familiarly known as
“ Jumbo,” has been appointed a N.S.W. Crown
Prosecutor. It is understood that Mr. Arm-
strong is indebted to judicial influence for his
selection,
M. 11. Davies, the Victorian Speaker, has
been knighted. The Cabbage Garden has had
live Speakers, only one of whom refused a
“ handle.” Yet does the name of Peter Lalor
smell sweetest of all.
One of the most sober-minded of N.S. W.
solicitors not long ago astounded his friends one
evening by striding up a crowded Western concert-
hall with an open umbrella over bis head, although
there the weather was fine.
Sir George Grey, ‘ ‘ the Great Pro-Consul, ”
is about to visit Sydney. Sir George is 78 years
of age and has been for over half a century in the
Southern Seas, yet he has never seen our Beautiful
Harbour. Fifty years ago he explored in North
Western Australia.
An old Pakeha-Maori, in the person of
Mrs. Robert Fitzroy, has just died. She was the
widow of Captain Fitzroy, R.N., the weather-
prophet, who was Governor of N.Z. as far back as
1843. The captain suicided in ’65, one of his (ire-
dictions, it is said, having failed.
The great Professor Owen, now 86, said in
reply to a recent interviewer : “It seems to mo
that religion and science are too utterly distinct
to be ever reconcilable by the logical and scientific
man. The progressive advance of both is such
that each diverges rather than converges.”
It is said that Premier Parkes dislikes
operatic music. No one who has read his verses
will feel inclined to doubt the statement. When
last in London the old man was a regular fre-
quenter at all the rum-ti-tum music-halls, where
he gloated over the Macdougaldenounced ditties.
Old Roger Therry once told Bob Lowe—
whose biography we are promised—that he was
“like the adder which stung to death the bene-
factor who gave it warmth and strength.” Lowe,
on his arrival in Australia in 1842, fawned on ant]
was appointed to the Legislative Council by
Governor Gipps, whom he subsequently denounced.
When Dr. Creed, M.L.C., was practising
at Scone, N.S.W., he posed as a rather rabid anti-
Romanist. One day, thinking to “take a rise”
out of Biddy M , he said: “Now, what is
yow)' theory of the cause of this long drought ?”
“Oi don’t know, Docthor,” replied Bridget,
“unless it is that God Almighty has turned
Prodestan!”
December 30th was the 53rd Anniversary
of the foundation of the colony of South Aus-
tralia. Mr. J. O. Whyte, proprietor of the
Bathurst (N.S.W.) Free Press, one of the
founders, is still alive and hearty. Mr. Whyte
with his own hands built the first Wesleyan
Chapel in Hindley-street, Adelaide, and opened it
for public worship in 1838.
Captain George Drevar, who was drowned
last week while attempting to save the life of a
boy who had hired a boat from him at No. 6 Dam,
Centennial Park, Sydney, was well known in con-
nection with his experiments with life-saving
apparatus. It is passing strange that the man
who successfully navigated the Atlantic in a six-
tonner, and who crossed the English Channel on a
raft, should be drowned in a mud-hole.
With Mr. Box, the barrister, the late G.
B. Kerferd, when practising at the Bar, compiled
a digest of the decisions of the Victorian Supreme
Court from ’46 to ’7l. Kerferd was in the Equity
Court once, Judge Moles worth presiding, when
the grand old lawyer incidentally mentioned
“ Box’s book.” “ I had the honour of assisting
Mr. Box in that work, your Honor,” said Ker-
ferd, more or less modestly. “It’s a good book,
nothwithstanding, ” chirruped Old Moley with a
broad smile.
LTllustration, of Paris, gives us a por-
trait of the late Dr. Ricord, with his nutcracker
visage. He was born in the last quarter of an
hour of the eighteenth century, so that, as he
said, his birth came in its expiring pangs. No
doctor ever made so much money, but he gambled
it away. From the peculiar nature of his prac-
tice, he used to leave his carriage some distance
from the place he visited. He drove a pair of
piebald horses. The Papal Nuncio complained of
their being left, several days running, at his door
in Paris, while Ricord was off to see some dissi-
pated aristocrat.
From Parramatta poorhouse comes in-
telligence of the death of James O’Neill, who was
verging on 110 years of age. He came out “in
bond ” at the end of last century for complicity in
the Irish Rebellion. Which reminds us that the
curious in such things can see a romantic tomb-
stone in the old Catholic cemetery at Campbell-
town (N.S.W.) on which is inscribed, “John
Fowler, died May 9, 1833. Aged 71. Michael
Bryan, died Nov. 1, 1833. Aged 55. Thomas
Connor, died January 13, 1835. Aged 68. The
above were all shipmates and countrymen and all
sent out on a charge of that unfortunate business
in 1798.”
“Canterbury” Hutchison’s little domestic
trouble just now is bringing up numerous stories,
good, bad, indifferent, new, old, original, and
otherwise. Here is one of a time when the cold-
water member wore his hair long, just like Dr.
Macadam did years agone in Melbourne. H. wrs
advertised to speak in a Murrutnbidgee River
town. On the morning of the day he stepped into
the local barber’s to have the stray points snipped
off his hair. The barber, of course, was voluble—
“ Was the gentleman going to the temperance
meeting to-night?” “Possibly.” “Did he know
Mr. Hutchison.” “A little, but I don’t like
him.” “I am sorry for that; lam going to hear
him myself to night. What sort of man is he ?”
“ Oh, something like me.” At the finish of the
job H. introduced himself, much to the barber’s
temporary discomfiture, but suddenly the t nsorial
artist sang out, “ Here, Missus, sweep up all this
here ’air and keep it.”
An inexpensive New Year remembrance—•
The Bulletin’s “ History of Botany Bay.” Price
Is., by post, Is. 3d. Profusely illustrated by the
great humourists, L. Hopkins and Phil May.
Another stir in the Royal rabbit-warren.
Princess Maud, Tummy’s third daughter is about
to marry a brother of the German empress.
Among the monarchs out of work just
now are Dom Pedro of Brazil, Milan of Servia,
Alexander of Battenberg, Amadeo of Spain, the
Empress Eugenie of France, the Empress Maxi-
milian of Mexico, the ex-Queen of Naples—and
King Billy of the Barcoo.
Browning, like Carlyle, refused and
despised titles. Just after Tennyson’s “en-
noblement ” some one said to the lately-deceased
poet: “ Your turn to be made a Peer may come
next.” “I would rather,” said the poet, “be
considered a Fellow of Ballioh”
There is a rumour that a R.C. bank
(capital, £20,000,000) is being formed under the
auspices of the Vatican. Will it lend money at
80 per shent on a sliding scale of commission ? If
so, Abigail will have something to “ go for”which
is not only popery but Fiscal.
At the sitting of the Sweating Commission
it was discovered that one witness, a middle-aged
woman, was the only support of a family of three,
with a sick husband to keep as well. She was a
trouser-maker, and received 3|d. for each pair.
Fourteen hours’ constant work every day pro-
duced Is., out of which the household had to be
maintained. Let us have Imperial Federation by
all means.
A story goes to the effect that when
Sydney Evening News published its “ Ominous
Silence ” and other anti-Catholic politico-religious
articles some while back, a large advertiser, who
was a Roman Catholic, withdrew his advertise-
ments, and a canvasser was sent round to ask him
to renew, but he stubbornly refused. The can-
vasser demanded his reason. He said, “Did they
tell you in the Evening News oflhco to ask me
why I wouldn’t renew? ” “Yes.” “ Well, you
go back,” he said with malicious deliberateness,
“ and tell them that you asked .the. end (hat I
preserved an Ominous Silence,”
POLITICAL POINTS
Not a single N.S. Wales M.P. refuses to
draw his official salary.
Last year the Victorian Treasurer received
£391,0(37 from probate duty.
W. B. Dailey lias now been dead 14
months. What has become of the proposed
statue?
Victoria is the hist of the Australias to
institute^ universal penny-postage within its own
boundaries.
A new Victorian licensing law prohibits
intoxicants being sold at railway stations within
twenty miles of the metropolis.
The Manchester Examiner predicts that
Sir Henry Parkes will be the first premier of
Federated Australia. Surely an enemy of Federa-
tion hath said this.
Emile de Laveleye prophesies to the
readers of the Revle Internationale that, in a
hundred years from now, the wo Id will be divided
between three colossal Powei’s—China, the United
States, and Russia.
Melbourne Standard discovers that “Vic-
toria has a long way to travel yet before it will
have mastered the pim iphs of chil liberty.”
ITALY EXPLAINS THE SITUATION.
“King Humbert stated in reply to a deputation that the friendship of
Germany, Russia and Italy has secured the peace of Europe.... During
the proceedings a bomb was thrown into the ranks of the deputation, but
fortunately it did not explode and consequently no damage was done.” —Daily
Paper.
Pooh ! no occasion to travel further than to Gillies
and his colleagues. They have mastered the
principles of civil liberty—completely mastered
’em. They are sitting on them.
Says a South African writer :
I have heard it argued that no power on earth would
make a British autocrat consider any colonist, no matter
how rich or talented, his equal. From the little 1 have
seen of the British peer, I must say he is either an un-
utterable blackguard or a very iceberg of pride. Colonial
representatives could not run in Legislative harness with
such individuals.
The King of Italy, it is cabled, declares
that the alliance between Germany and Russia
secures peace. Just so. There can never be an
alliance between Republican France and Despotic
Russia. Tyrants are natural allies. Imagine
how the Russian Republicans would be strength-
ened by linking to the French. Why, the Czar’s
head would go up to the flies, like that of the
swell in the harlequinade.
The S.A. Ministry are a queer lot. Dr.
Cockburn, the Premier, went away for a short
holiday in the beginning of recess. On his way
back from Sydney he ran up against his Attorney-
General, Mr. Moulden. The gentle Moulden had
levanted without call or license, having first asked
a lay member of the Ministry to perform his
duties for him. Moulden, for reasons of his own,
did not wish to have a lawyer in his office.
The dispute between England and Por-
tugal is with regard to the water-way up the Shire
River, from south to north, to Lake Njtessa, the
most southerly of the great African Lakes, which
are the Victoria and Albert Nyanzas, Tangan-
yika, and Nyassa. The Shire River runs into the
Zambesi, which leads to the ocean. It is all-
important to grip the trade of the Zambesi and
Shire, because the great African lakes are all, or
will be, joined by waterways. The Zambesi is
the outlet to the sea.
Says a writer in London Commonwealth:—
In case any of our readers should be caught by the
sound of the word “Federation,” I must remind them
that this “ Imperial Federation ” means in the first place,
a Jingo competitive scheme for doing as much injury os
possible to all peoples and countries outside the British
Empire; and in the second place, a plot for setting
schemes a-foot for bolstering up the tottering capitalist
r&yime by finding new markets for it; that is to say, new
commercial fields for the exercise of the “ sword of cheap-
ness.” It is, in short, one of the dams which the middle-
classes are building against the rising flood of Socialism.
Happily, it is a darn built of paper and big words.
The editor of the Bathurst (N.8.W.) Senti-
nel solemnly promised to compensate his readers
for their awful loss of two Christmas issues of the
horgan “ by the increased interest which one and
all will throw into the management of the paper
after the effects of the holidays have worn off.”
Vow that sufficient time has elapsed for one and
all to sober up, the world has its eye on the
Bathurst Sentinel. And the staff await the
editorial order to commit murder, bigamy, arson,
abduction or anything else calculated to throw
increased interest into a paper which stands in
urgent need of a private tragedy to wake sub-
scribers up.
•‘As long as we remain a dependency of
the British crown we cannot elect our own Presi-
dent, like the United States of America, nor even
our own Governor-General,” says the Age, with
polite acquiescence in the state of things that are.
What particularly strikes us at the present junc-
ture is_ that, while we remain under the spell of
the British bauble aforesaid, wp cannot prevent
successful land-sharks and drunken swaggerers
from being hoisted into so-called “eminence” at
the instigation of a Lord Knutsford, or a Sir
Somers Vine, or anyone who has a finger in the
list of “honours” conferred upon colonial crawlers.
God save the Queen !
In the whole course of his lofty career
Duncan Gillies has never been more peculiarly
lofty than when he recently favoured his con-
stituents with a few remarks concerning the
vanished Victorian surplus. Under the circum-
stances Duncan found it impossible to stoop to
petty details, firstly because he had “done in”
the surplus anyway, and secondly because there
never was a surpl s, so far as anybody can exactly
make out. Realising, then, the utter hopelessness
of trying to explain what has become of some-
thing that never had an existence in fact, Duncan
spread his bald-faced smile athwart the platform
and concluded his involved harangue with these
memorable words: —“Whenever anybody comes
up to you and says ‘Where is that surplus of
£1,704,000 ?’ you tell them to go .” Whereupon
somebody moved a vote of thanks to Duncan fur
his lu id financial statement, and such of the
meeting as still felt concerned about the £1,704,000
grabbed their hats and went to . Victorian
t ixpayers will please take up the glad refrain
while we sing—
Go to—(Dash.)
When you say to Duncan’s friends
“ Too much public coin he spends ;
Is he not a trifle rash ?”
They will bid you go to —(dash.)
Por that surplus ne’er enquire,
Lest you raise old Duncan’s ire ;
L’ke a lord he squanders cash,
If you grumble—go to—(dash.)
Tens of thousands paid away
As “ in hand ” appear to-day ;
Assets in a state of hash,
Please yourself or go to—(dash.)
In a maimer smart and neat
Gillies works his balance-sheet—
With it makes an annual splash,
Malcontents can go to—(dash.)
Are the profits what they look ?
Figures would he dare to “ cook ?”
Like a vivid lightning Hash
Comes the answer—go to—(dash.)
Pay the piper, growling loons,
While your Duncan calls the tunes,
And your teeth in anger gnash,
Me don't grumble—go to—(dash.)
Impotent for fume and curse ;
Duncan holds the public purse,
Treating it like vulgar trash
Only fit to go to —(dash.)'
Making out that black is white
Duncan keeps his place all right,
One day there will come a qrash,
Then he’ll have to go to—(dash;)


* y. ZfZfz /fywm/jrraffs''
o/ /'? e ./%#/ = -/J fnffr/a/j>/syy
ftf.jrj $K a/ O- ~y7 ftay6sp CP
P / &/apjy/ypr
/ =
J? " • /z fr
M " '
7 ■ -ft
-, J-2 '- J
/07 #/ J/Jisfr dor7& AaArfJ
Cj£ C<s//J
THE SILVER CURRENCY: J. BULL’S TOKENS OE AFFECTION.
YOUNG AUSTRALIA: “LOOK HERE, GUV’NOR, WHAT 18 THTS?”
J.BULL: “WELL, I CALLS THAT THERE A ENGLISH SHILLIN’!”
YOUNG AUSTRALIA : “YES, YOU CALL IT A SHILLING; BUT I’LL TELL YOU WHAT IT IS; IT’S LITTLE MORE TITAN SEVENPENCE WORTH OF SILVER.
PLEASE TAKE BACK YOUR FRAUDULENT COIN. IN FUTURE I INTEND COINING MY OWN SHILLINGS OUT OF MY OWN SILVER.”


(?/>/£>
—*■■ ■*■- * 7)<z_ y yy yy? , j-
TT/jf PjEACf orA/a /
/tZtyTo T/Tgr/y Peace, o/
/6 Ja/cT fa 7fo<r a/ /faTy
7a cl aefia/ay aT ys JcoT/cc/f ao a7laT
years c/gy' ‘ f
THE NIHILISTS.
ATTEMPTED OF
THE CZAR.
(.OtTR SPECIAL MESSAGE.!
London, Sunday.-It is reasserted that
1 the Nihilists nearly succeeded in their
. recent endeavor to poison the Czar c
Russia.
c f# year tty datt' <Saattof/e/f
Court Taster J~Je/? a /Jett day j/j^ca
i
C£r af /T/tt/ o/> r~ C /
J?rass3a,ct r;^/7/
/ ' /f
Gold bas been discovered near tbe Mount
Hope police station and a plight rush baa
set is.
T//£ P£/JC£ Of M<? Z
*7c<s/~ Tfp// a JhyyZ fayp
Tfir&uyfl a//*/ t/j P />?a c s Qf
tfO-j TjotSo
Ciuurzci cls it
Mr. A. C. Hewlett, Major of Waverlev, baa
been presented with a ailrer cradle iu comme-
moration of the birth of a daughter
/j 4/6*
Sp pa / p/fssy f a dfr
rpcr/wcf Jucfi a 9 / / 1
&y7?r/ Jac6 Vr/y/af accet -
S/vn Ce)ould
'/ffit a r/'y&y
A?%" J'pce.
THE SILLY SEASON AGAIN.


“The leading Packet Tea in New South Wales
is the Famous Billy Tea. Its consumption is
at least double that of any other brand in the
market. ”
PACKED ONLY BY
James Inglia «& Co.,
4 & 6 Dean’s Place, SYDNEY.
X>eEkJT 3E , o3trty 'SresaDrss,
The description of a simp’e remedy, by whicn
a complete cure of deafness and noises in the head
of forty years’ STANDING has just been effected,
will be sent free to anyone who applies to
J, H. NICHOLSON,
175 William Street, Melbourne.
W. H. PALING & COMPANY, LIMITED,
356 George Street, SYDNEY,
HAVE Just Opened a Magnificent Lot of 3ST©-w Pianos from the celebrated Makers, Steinway, Erard, Uebel, Fenrich. Lipp, Ronisch, Bluthner, Collard, and othei
Also of the wonderful Victor Piano* mst £45 and 3tlwfce»-y No such Variety or Value elsewhere for Cash or Tfiphs.
Society
The fierce newspaper war now raging be-
tween the paid officials of the N.S.W. Licensed
Victuallers and the local Good Templars reminds
us that a few years ago the latter party were the
victims of a nasty little “ sell.” They had
secured for chairman, at one of their great
gatherings, no less a man than the Lieutenant-
Governor, Sir Alfred Stephen, who, in his opening
address, declaimed against strong drink. He,
Sir Alfred, was followed by some rabid speakers,
and in responding to a vote of thanks openly de-
clared that good wine injured no man ! Since
then, ihe old gentleman has not been asked to
preside at many teetotal meetings.
* * *
A Melbourne lawyer has risen to deny
that fleas are so voracious at Tasmanian hotels.
He has just returned after “a comfortable stay”
at Hobart, but he forgets the fleas can afford to be
fastidious at this season.
# * *
So Bishop Barry has just given £lOO to a
church in Southwark, London. Would it not be
as well for the learned bishop to send a donation
for that spread which he promised the little Sydney
Cathedral choir-boys, and which he forgot all
about ? The boys were looking forward to it and
were disappointed. They said : The bishop is not
nearly as great in our estimation as is Essie
Jenyns. She promised nothing, but after we
sang at her wedding she gave each of us a new
half-crown.”
* # *
Gladstone has just passed his 80th birth-
day. He has contrived to live and work all this
time because he has ever possessed a good diges-
tion. The story goes that he bites each piece of
meat thirty times before he swallows it, and that
he has engrafted upon his family this salutary and
picturesque practice. Had Gladstone come to
Australia and lived at our boarding-house his
dentist’s bill would, under these circumstances,
have been at least £lOOO a year.
# * *
A cynical friend of ours happened, the
other day, to sit at an hotel table where at dinner
he ordered in whisky-and-soda. Hereupon a
saintly-looking personage across the table (who
had been bolting pounds of meat in dog-fashion)
looked savagely at the damnable potion which
the waiter was bringing in, and loudly re-
marked to another saintly-looking personage
alongside him ; “ Oh, no, I never drink.” “ I
suppose,” said our friend, “ that’s meant for me.
You never drink ! Why you’ve been absolutely
drinking (not eating) hunks of boiled mutton two
inches square for the last half-hour.”
* # *
GLADSONE’S BIRTHDAY CARD.
December 29th, 1889.
The Grand Old Man, at fourscore years,
Is active, hale, and hearty ;
And with a ringing burst of cheers
We drown the gibings and the sneers
Which ill-conceal the carking fears
Of all the Tory party.
His brain is busy as of yore,
His words are still as weighty,
His name is honoured, more and more,
In honest hearts the wide world o’er,
And “ in ” or “ out ” he’s to the fore
The Grand Old Man of eighty.
Let Primrose Leaguers spin their lies,
Let fools and toadies heed them —
The fame of Dizzy slowly dies;
No sickly tricks and “ loyal ’’ cries
Can stop the Army of the Wise,
Whose Gladstone lives to lead them.
Mr* Pilcher, Q.C., goes to England this
month, a circumstance which maketh glad the
heart of many at the N.S.W. Junior Bar. Sir
William Stawell once told T. H. Fellows that he
ought to accept a judgeship, if only to give the
Bar a chance. Fellows —who was said to be making
seven or eight thousand a year—did so, after the
Government had raised the judicial screws by
£5OO per annum. Pilcher is the Purves of N.S.
Wales, an able and fearless cross-examiner, and so
beastly rich that he despises judgeships or the
judges—we forget which. He married a richly-
endowed lady, the daughter of John McPhillamy,
of Mount Tamar, near Bathurst.
* * *
A clergyman had his pocket picked of £35
at one of Miss von Finkelstein’s lectures in Mel-
bourne the other night. The parson collected it
in “thrummers,” and the other fellow collected it
in the lump. That’s all.
* * *
Which reminds us that Bishop Field
Flowers Goe, of Melbourne, when asked what he
considered the most agreeable part of the Anglican
Church service, said “ the collect,” Be careful of
your accents.
# * #
A correspondent writes to The Bulletin,
from Araluen, inquiring as to the probable cost
of a divorce. Well, a good deal depends upon
whether the lady whom you wish to divorce
objects or not. You can get married for half-a-
crown, or even for nothing; but a divorce, at the
very least, will cost £lOO. In fact, a £lOO divorce
is regarded as a legal miracle. There is as much
difference between the ease with which you can
get married and the trouble with which you get
unmarried as there is between putting your boots
on in the morning (when your swelled head has
taken the arterial pressure off your feet) and un-
lacing your boots when you come home early on
Krishmish morning from a club supper.
# * *
On the third day of the intercolonial cricket
match Governor Hopetoun entered the arena
during an interval and shook hands with every
player within reach. The earl didn’t faint once,
not even when Sam Morris, the dusky and
doughty, gave him a patent grip of a kind un-
known at levees. The crowd laughed prodigiously
at Sam’s condescension.
# *- *
“ The Vagabond ” was “ surprised ” at the
cool reception accorded Governor Hopetoun on his
first appearance at Flemington on New Year’s
Day, and accounts for it by the fact that Mac-
Bain and Co., the supporters of Presbyterian
vice-royalty, don’t go to races.
# * *
A Melbourne theatrical costumier has been
flooded with enquiries respecting curled wigs for
flunkeys, and the inference is that Toorak will
shortly be “ faking ” up its coachmen and footmen
in powdered tow. Hopetoun is already beginning
to do a little something for the good of Victoria.
# * *
Melbourne sassiety is discovering that the
new vice-royals lack style in the purple and fine
linen departments. To the deep disgust of many
THE DECLINE OF FOOTBALL.
THE FULLDRESS REHEARSAL AT THE PANTOMIME.
expensively-appointed females, Lady Hopetoun
“ did ” Flemington in (as a newspaper reporteress
pathetically complained) “ the same simple frock
of fawn lustre which she has donned at all public
functions since she arrived.” As a matter of fact
that frock is simple, very simple, although it can’t
be accurately described as “ fawn.” But if Lady
Hopetoun has such a severe penchant for the
reddy-drab garment aforesaid, there is no help
for it, unless the gorgeously-arrayed scoffers care
to lay their case before the Queen, and call upon
Her Gracious to order a state of things in which
hard cash will receive every encouragement to
assert itself upon broad expanses of fat backs.
Another complaint is that the Governor’s Scotch
tailor has rigged him out in shockingly badly cut
clothes, while the suite are also somewhat creased
and sloppy-looking. Furthermore, it is asserted
that none of the flunkeys’ 300 (or was it 30 ?) suits
of livery fit worth a cent., all of which circum-
stances must inevitably tend to undermine loyalty
and imperil the Empire of Duncan Gillies.
# # *
With a dull, heavy pain at its heart The
Bulletin rises to mention that Lord Hopetoun
purposes remaining in our midst until Anno
Domini 1900, or thereabouts. Anyway, in thank-
ing the councillors and burgesses of Wangaratta
for their yard of greasy address, the noble Earl
said: “The cordial welcome that we have met
with so far is a fair indication of the happiness
we are likely to experience during the next 10
years of our lives. ” This naturally strikes one as
an inordinately long ordeal of Hopetoun to look
forward to, but no matter. The Bulletin will do
its level best to make him happy all the time, and
his three-dozen imported flunkeys can do no more.
* * *
The Indian Prince with a dreadful name
was a dusky feature in the royal box at Flemington,
on New Year’s Day. For a time the Countess
spread herself next to the wooden-looking poten
tate and endeavoured to lure him into talking
about the weather, but the Prince sat as silent as
a heathen god. So they appeared to give him up
as a bad job and let him make his melancholy way
on to the lawn after he had filled himself up with
vice-regal luncheon. His Highness’s life is em-
bittered by the fear that people are going to have
three shies a penny at his colossal turban, a gaudy
lump of head-gear which really deserves encourage-
ment in hot weather. But although light to the
skull it is a burden to the wearer’s soul. At the
Opera House one night an usher politely requested
him to take it off, in accordance with the custom
of our country. That was a terrible take-down
for the Prince, although, of course, he did not re-
move his beloved cadey. As soon would he have
thought of taking off his head and putting that on
the next seat. The Prince asked his gentleman
attendant (his bit of suite) to explain matters to
the usher, whereupon the suite said : “ This
gentleman is a king when he’s at home, and never
takes off his turban except to get his hair cut.”
Then the usher replied, “I tumble,” and beat a
dignified retreat backwards. All the same it is
very trying to sit behind the Prince’s turban at a
play, because it obscures most of the scenery and
shuts the actors right out of the line of vision.
* # *
The vice-regal circle of South Adelaide
will shortly be increased by at least one.
* * *
Governor Kintore is observing the even
tenor of his way in Adelaide. He is a good
Scotchman and he doesn’t spend money. It is
interesting to notice his lordship when he is
addressing a meeting. His good father, the late
Earl, was a mighty preacher, and the South
Australian Governor has copied to perfectio
his distinguished predecessor. He puts his
hat upon the table in front of him, having first
arranged that legible notes should be comfortably
arranged in the said hat. Then he straightens
himself up and says; “Ladies and gentlemen.”
He can’t say another word until he has again
looked into the hat,
# * #
Melbourne Age “ad.”:—
\TAN, young, to represent a hypocrite at Miss Von
T’L Finkelstein’s farewell lecture to-morrow. Pre-
vious experience necessary.
Why doesn’t R. S. Srnythe apply at the Y.M.C.A.
hall, instead of wasting his money in this reckless
manner on the ungrateful David Syme ?
* * *
The S. M. Herald quotes a statement
that two-and-a-half per cent, of the population of
Texas has been prosecuted for crime. Horrible,
you will say. But look at England. One in 73 of
her population is named Smith ! This is ghastly.
* # #
They questioned the respectability of a
woman in the Richmond (Vic.) Police Court the
other day, and she got up with a snort and yelled,
“Me respectable! Ain’t I just! Why, I’ve
shook hands with the Earl of ’Opetoun.” No
wonder jtoor Hopetoun fainted.
« # * *
Justice Kerferd, Melbourne, has died
suddenly, and there is an opening to make Acting-
Justice Hodges permanently safe. Kerferd’s first
mission in life was to distend Beechworth with
beer. In politics Kerferd was true blue Conserva-
tive, even in the dark days when that canny
humbug, M'Oullooh, led the Loyal Liberals. Ker-
ferd pluckily ground up as a barrister, beginning
when far over 30 years old, and immersed in
politics. His common-sense was thorough, and
he bothered the law-books. Yet even Fellows
had a high opinion of him legally. Kerferd’s
appointment), by himself, as judge, was a job.
Purves walked into him and always sneered at
him on the bench. But Kerferd was good enough
as judge. Like old Kenyon, he would give the
right decision, but carefully abstain from reasons.
Writes a correspondent :
The cabled announcement that the Irish leader, Mr. 0.
S. Parnell, was the co-respondent in a divorce-suit in
which Captain W. H. O’Shea was petitioner, will take no
one who knows the parties by surprise. The patronage
which Parnell gave to the political ventures of O’Shea was
always a subject of discussion amongst the Irish party,
and when Parnell supported the kid-gloved and effeminate
“ go-between ” of the Kilmainham treaty in a late election
for Galway, Tim Healy, Joe Biggar, and other indepen-
dent members openly opposed him. Parnell and O’Shea
had been intimate personal friends up to 1886, when
O’Shea turned Parnell out of his rooms. It was
generally understood that Parnell—who has been for
years a gay Lothario was a suitor for the hand
of Mrs. O’Shea’s sister. Oapt. O’Shea is the son of a
former Clerk of the Peace for Clare, Ireland, and Mrs.
O’Shea is a niece of General Evelyn Wood and of Lady
Leonard, wife of Sir Thomas Leonard, Baronet (of Essex).
Mr. Parnell will barely be finished with Sir James
Hannen, as President of the Parnell Commission, when
he will be called on “ to toe the mark ” by Sir James as
Chief Judge of the Divorce Division of the High Court of
Justice.
# # #
Another correspondent writes us :
Will IK O’Shea began life as the son of his father, who
was a prosperous attorney in Limerick. He then be-
came “Capting”in the Ballybigboy Fencibles, a militia
regiment of great local repute. Fenian sentiments safely
uttered on a remote country platform sent him to Loti-
don M.P. for Clare. Here the genius of the man found
its true home. He became the best-dressed figure in the
House of Commons; his manners were of plush-like soft-
ness, and his wit had that cynical man-of-the-world touch
which suggests vast possibilities as to worldly experience
philosophically borne. He was rich, lie set up a fine
house, married a gifted and highly-bred lady, and, con-
sequently, had many friends. But he wanted much more.
His great soul longed to pierce to the very kernel of
affairs. He yearned to make and unmake Governments,
to consult with Cabinets, to be the main-spring of the
mighty Empire on which the sun never turns it back—a
second Swift, in fact. With this purpose in view he
flattered Chamberlain, and expressed an ardent personal
attachment to the Irish Leader. For one blissful moment
he achieved greatness, and as the intermediary in the
Kilmainham Treaty posed before a properly impressed
world as one of those gifted and unselfish beings who
dwarf their own intellectual greatness in order to help
men of lesser genius who happen, for the time being, to
be in possession of power.
* * *
But before and after the hour of his triumph “ Willie’ -
was whispering poisoned words about the Irish leader into
judiciously-selected ears. It would never do, he felt, to
let Parnell obtain supreme control of the Irish move-
ment. There would be no room then for Prime Minister
“LOVE-MAKING IN PADDY-LAND.”
(UNDER KITTY'S WINDOW.)
“ Ah, then ! who is that there talking ? ”
“ Sure, it’s only me, ye know,-
I was thinkin’ we’d go walkin’ ” —
“ Wor ye raly thinkin ’ so ? ”
“ Ooh, ye needn’ be so cruel,
An’ me thrudged this sivin mile ” —
“ Is it cruel, Michael, jewel,
Sure Tm dressing all the while I ”
(Before Michael’s Cottage.)
“ There, now, that’s me cottage, Kitty.”
“ Is it, Mike? ”
“ ’Tis, an’ isn’t it pretty? ”
“ H’m—lonesome like.”
“ Lonesome ! ” (Now’s y’r minute '
Michael, strike!)
“ Sure, if you wer in it ”
“ Arrah, Mike ! ”
SPECTATOR.
CREMATION.
For a finish give us roasting,
Those who’re by cremation vext
All oppose the Scriptural posting—
Ash to ashes says the text. _
We will calmly face the cooking
That may come when life is run.
And will take our chance of looking
Rather dark when overdone.
If cremation were to-morrow
Quite a custom in the land
’Twould remove a world of sorrow
From a sad, dyspeptic band,
For the vilest cooks and slovens
Killing us with dishes dread
Might attend cremating ovens—
Cook us after death instead.
Public burners for cremation
Must to us come soon or late—
Kilns where our defunct relations
May be roasted while we wait ;
Or, if waiting make us weary,
We may send our smallest son
With the most respectful query—
“ Please, is Aunt Maria done ? ”
Burying is past its season,
More repulsive, too, by far
Than the cause for which we reason—
Than the little china jar.
Who would lie and moulder slowly
In the sodden earth away,
If he might be powdered wholly
Down to dust within the day ?
Soon we’ll have our dead relations
Ranged along a cupboard shelf,
All according to their stations
In their natty urns of delf,
Or upon the parlour table
Stood about in fetching ways,
With a verse beneath each label,
Setting forth their noble traits.
In the former case be wary
That your wicked little son
Does not eat up sister Mary,
Thinking her ground cinnamon.
Timid folks may rest contented
In their old, religious trust,
Gabriel’s trump as represented
Certain is to raise the dust.
E.D.


The SYDNEY DEPOSIT BANK,
90 —KING STREET-90
Established 1885.
Agencies in London and throughout Australia.
Overdrafts granted against Deposit of Deeds,
and all the usual banking business transacted.
The following are the Rates of Interest allowed
for Fixed Deposits
3 Years 9| per cent.
12 Months per cent.
6 Months 74 per cent.
3 Months 5| per cent.
5 per cent, allowed on daily balance of current account.
For the past Four (4) Years a Bonus of One per
Cent, has been paid in addition to the above rates.
This is the first and only Bank in the Colonies
which divides its profits with its depositors.
Communications from the country will be
promptly attended to. i
T. S. RICHARDSON,
General Manager, |
f
CONSUMPTION
BRONCHITIS
SCROFULA
GOUSH OR COLD
Threat Affection
Wasting of Flesh
Or any Disease where the Throat and Dungs
are Inflamed, lack of Strength or Nerve
Power* you can he Jielieved and Cured Jjf
SCOTT’S
EMULSION
PURE COITuVER OIL
With Hypophosphites.
Palatable as EVJilk.
Ask for Scott’s Mmulsion, and let no eX»
planation or solicitation induce you to accept
a substitute.
Sold by all Chemists.
SCOTT & BOWNE, New York.
Robertson’s Whisky.
GIVEN AWAY IN THE COLONIES
as follows:
16 of £5 each, 25 £2, and 70 £l,
Pamphlets from the Agents, «8b O Limiteci, CHARLOTTE PLACE SYDNEY
Chamberlain and Chief Secretary O’Shea. And so an
Irish priest is buttonholed here, and a sad tale of Parnell’s
immoral life in London is poured into his shocked and
astounded ears. A wire-puller is caught elsewhere and
cautioned as to trusting too far to the integrity of the
Irish leader. Or, perhaps, a half-Feniah agitator has all
his old physical force propensities carefully aroused once
more by the bland suggestive whisper of the silken
“ Oapting.” In the meantime, O’Shea’s house in Lon-
don was the haunt of the Irish party, and the warm-
hearted English lady who adorned it was loyally helping
the cause which had won her sympathy and admiration.
# * *
But “Willie” was useful, and with his sweet, high-bred
manner had won himself a place in the heart of the cold
iron man who has. ever been as loyal to his friends as he
has been unflinching in the cause of his country, and so
when Parnell found him out, as he did years ago, and
when the Party avoided him as a political skunk, yet the
Chief did not fling him over, but candidly accepting his
word of honour as to his future loyal conduct, backed his
candidature for Galway and got him returned. The
denouement was not far off. “Willie,” like so many
others, believed that Chamberlain held the political
trumps, and so he followed Judas on the Home Rule Bill,
thus breaking both his solemn promise to Galway and his
friendship with the Irish leader The rest of his career
has been one of disaster. His fortune has disappeared
in reckless speculation, he has been exiled from the “best
club in London,” he has been cut by his former friends,
and he has received the open and public scorn of his wife—
he has even sunk low enough for the Times to touch him.
He swore that Pigott’s forgeries were the genuine writing
of the hand which had ever been to him generous and
giftful.
* * *
A man cannot love good cooking, fine wines, the best
clubs, the purple and fine linen of life, and be insanely
fastidious as to the means by which he obtains them.
Pioott, before he was useful to the Times, did a lucrative
trade in indecent photographs. “ Willie ” O’Shea, after
he has helped the Times and dragged his wife’s name in
the mud will devote his energies to writing a cookery-
book.
* * *
The fair proprietress of a luxurious
“ house ” (situated in a certain Marvellous city
is a constant visitor at Parliament House. It
is her custom to dodge around the senate on the
chance of waylaying legislators for money due.
With a few wealthy exceptions—among which
exceptions a rather exalted personage is con-
spicuously prompt cash in his transactions yes,
with a few such exceptions, the legislators go
“ tick ” for their “ furnished apartments ” at the
mysterious establishment aforesaid. This is a
giddy paragraph, but none the less true on that
account.
* * *
G. R. Sims satirises the petty wranglings
of “sassiety” journalism—as represented by
Truth and the World —in the following jingles :
Henrv (Labouchbrb). Edmund (Yates).
Dear Edmund, you’re wrong Dear Henry, your statement
(as you frequently are) that Wales has the gout
In your wonderful “Court In his'foot is absurd. You've
and Society ” par, been told so no doubt ;
So far from the Queen com- But you see, my dear
ing back, as you’ve heard, Henry, I happen to know
On the second, she doesn’t That the gout which the
return till the third. Prince has is the gout in
the toe,
Labouchere and Yates, however, can plead in ex-
cuse for their drivel that the date of Her Gracious’
return and the exact locality of Tummy’s gout
are matters of interest to a number of persons who
buy these solemn “ smart ” London weeklies.
There are rags published in Australia which give
themselves almighty airs on the strength of having
supplied the earliest information respecting Mrs,
Brown’s parasol for the coming “ Cup,” and that
proudly refer their readers to some paragraph of
six weeks back, wherein it was correctly predicted
that the Governor’s cook would shortly be leaving.
Then we have journalists who sit down with hearts
beating high, and write : I was the first to an-
nounce the title of the Royal pantomime, ” or “ no
other writer but myself has been fortunate enough
to state that the pimple on Charles Warner’s neck
is getting much better.”
* * *
A Dundreary-like Sydney incumbent was
lately asked to exchange for a Sunday with a
suburban vicar. The town parson consented on
one condition ; that a horse and carriage were
sent for him, as he “ objected on principle to the
Sabbath desecration involved in running Sunday
trains.” Which is straining at small camels and
swallowing large gnats in large quantities with a
v'ongeancG.
* * #
It was Christmas Eve in Deniliquin and
the time was midnight. The bright Christmas
moon was riding in a clear sky and the town was
wrapped in holy calm and peace. Suddenly the
wild clang of the firebell broke the stillness, and
Deniliquin rose from its slumber and shot into the
streets and made for the scene of the fire at a ICO
yards in 10 seconds gait. Such a turn-out was
never before seen in the City of the Plains. Young
girls clinging on to their “ chaps ” with one hand
and holding up their scanty garments with the
other, old, toddling women in dressing-gowns and
nightcaps, men with their pants on wrong side
about, and bushmen with scarcely anything at all
on—down the street they tore. The gallant
Deniliquin Eire Brigade, with all their warpaint
on, mounted on their engine, came next. Sud-
denly the Arab steed that was in the shafts
stopped, put down his head and extended his
hind feet in the air ; there was a sound as of ad-
jacent thunder, and the D.P.B. and their war-
paint and torches lay scattered in the road.
Meanwhile, the slab-and-plaster humpy of Mrs.
Charley Ah Foo, where the fire occurred, was re-
duced to cinders. After a good general all-round
curse, Deniliquin slunk back to bed again, while
the Fire Brigade spent the remainder of the night
scissoring sticking-plaster, and sewing on ears.
* # *
Should a new election for Primate be de-
cided on, and such seems very probable at present,
would it not be fair to stipulate that if the vacancy
be tilled from England, it shall only be by some
such prominent man as Archdeacon Farrar,
Llewellyn Davies, or Dean Plumptre, or Bromby,
or (as Australia supplied Manchester with a
Bishop) why should not Manchester supply Aus-
tralia with a Primate ? But, best still, could not
more persuasion be used to make Archdeacon
Gunther change his mind or, failing him, try the
“Bishop of Hunter’s Hill.”
* * *
The Volunteer Artillery “hotel,” George-
street, Sydney, a ramshackle building officially
condemned as unfit tor habitation several years
ago, has fallen down and killed two persons—a
barmaid, and an attorney named Nathaniel Cooke.
It is now plainer than ever that the Sydney civic
condemnations of ramshackle property are farcical.
Whether this is due to some defect in municipal
law or simply to the superior influence possessed
by property-holders over those who own merely
their lives we know not; in either case the burthen
of blood-guiltiness is dually owned and should be
dually borne. As a side-light on this question
people not averse to having their eyes opened
should read the evidence given before the late
Chinese Commission by certain members of the
Sydney police as to the ownership of rookeries
tenanted by Chinamen. It is quite a misfortune
that some of the rookeries don’t fall.
“Boxing. Day ...
' in/VIEABOURNE.
“Let this crumbling house be pulled
down,” say the municipal authorities. Five years
afterwards it falls down on its own account and
kills two people. Sydney is indeed the City of
To-morrow, the capital of the Land of By-and-By.
* * *
People do not seem to remember that
there have been many influenza epidemics in the
Australias. Some of the worst visitations have
come in the form of what is known as “ fog-fever,”
a malady perhaps more frequent in Tasmania than
elsewhere hereabouts.
# * *
Lord Augustus Loftus “is now writing
his memoirs.” What will he say about N.S.W. ?
We can see it. “My best friend in N.S.W. was
Charlie Roberts, C.M.G. All else was vanity.”
# * *
Always be seen in the main streets,
especially on the Block, carrying a lawn-tennis
racket and a black bag. Your position in the
very best society will then be thoroughly assured.
# * *
A Queensland J.P. has violently tweaked
the nose of idiotic custom by wearing his hat on
the bench.
* * *
By a Sydney harbour-boat travel a couple
of musicians who have unceasingly played the
same old tune for 15 years. The other day a very
brassy brass band got aboard the steamer, which
has hitherto been exclusively sacred to the
stringed-instrument men, and this band banged
and bombed and blasted at a great rate, to the
utter discomforture of the other alleged musicians*
who stopped playing. But a bright thought
suddenly struck the string men—and an emissary
of theirs instantly proceeded to take up the col-
lection while the other fellows played.
It is cabled that Professor Gilbert Murray
has declared that “ if the accusation of immorality
levelled against Mr. Parnell were true, the Irish
leader was a traitor to the destinies of his country,
but he regarded the accusation as incredible.”
Professor Murray is a young gentleman who
teaches Greek, and has lately married the daughter
of a very hard-up earl, who is now selling some of
his patrimonial estates in order to pay the mort-
gages off the balance. But why on earth Pro-
fessor Gilbert Murray aforesaid should be re-
garded as an oracular authority on socio-political
questions is a deep and fearsome mystery to all
human beings outside that circle of snobs who
believe in their hearts that the royal road to in-
fallibility is marrying the daughter of an earl.
What next will the cableman give us ?
# * *
A “demented drunk,” mounted on an
extensive and raw-boned steed, has flogged a
parson and his wife before him with a bullock-
whip for over two miles near Orange, N.S.W.
This is a remarkable instance of the inefficaoy of
prayer.
* * #
A Bulletin correspondent asserts that the
verdict of manslaughter only returned in the ease
of a Chinaman who stabbed a deck-hand on one
of the river steamers is due to the fact that the
Chow-cook in the back country is “boss, joss,
and lord of all,” and would probably, had the
verdict been otherwise, have said quietly ; “All
li, you killee Ah Fat, we makee plum-duff welly
ni,” and then introducing a few grains of arsenic
in the Christmas pudding every pub. in the
country would have a big run in the “inkwich”
trade. " The silly season commences just after
Christmas.
* * #
Here is a story which is circulating in
Adelaide now : A girl was madly in love with a
man who was not unconnected with a former vice-
regal court. She was reputed to have some money
and the man reciprocated her affection. But she
turned out to have very little money after all, and
was compelled to go and live with a relative. In
order to preserve the affection of the bald-headed
but fascinating swain she enlisted the services of a
friend. This friend happened to be the proprie-
tress of some original Broken Hills, and the latest
news is that a marriage has been arranged and
will shortly take place between the friend and the
lover.
Hi * #
At the opening of Mr. Quong Tarffs fine
Sydney restaurant the other day the enterprising
Mac Tart had four barelegged savages from
Caledonia stern and wild playing_ bagpipes up-
stairs. What occult connection is this that is
growing up between the Scotch and the Chinese
O # *
A couple of Sydney doctors have just de-
clared that playing bagpipes is good for the lungs.
What about the ears?
Hi * #
It is hot up North just now. A corres-
pondent writes to say that all the blacks are badly
sunburnt. One thing is certain —the picanninies
are getting sadly bleached.
* # *
A blind man and an ex-Church of England
clergyman are said to be running a barrel-organ
in Sandhurst (Vic.). The blind man wanted an
expert to go round with the hat, we suppose.
* # *
The other week a man was fined 10s. with
£1 Is. costs for driving a vulgar plebeian vehicle
up to Melbourne Government House by way of
the Grand Avenue which is reserved for the
carriages of the elite. From which we gather
Viscount Hopetoun intends to keep the bourgeoisie
to the lower walks.
* * *
A Southern boarding-house-keeper has
seized the artificial leg of one of her lodgers as
security for a board-bill. There is a sinful yarn
told by commercial travellers about a well-known
official who, in the good old rousing days of
Sydney, was known as “Pegleg,” and who used
o;i occasions to fall into the company of persons to
whom, on account of his official position, his
society was not always On one occa-
s on, finding him overcome by wine, the young
ladies of the “academy” unscrewed his leg and
sent it to his wife, giving the address where the
balance of the faithful “ Pegleg ” could be found.
History stops here.
* *
The lowness of Lady Kintore’s dresses has
given dire offence to that large section of the
ladies of Adelaide who find it inconvenient to
follow her lead.
# * *
It is said that a Lord, formerly a member of
the Queen’s household and of that distinguished
West End club, is now on his way to Australia, while
it is a positive fact that solicitor Newton, charged
with conspiring to defeat justice, has already
shipped some of the understrappers of that
Gomorrah to Australian shores. The latter end
of Botany Bay is likely to be worse than the first.
* * *
A laconic chestnut of a poem—“ Boy,
gun, joy, fun, gun, bust, boy, dust ’’—seems to be
going the rounds of the American, English, and
Australian Press. As the poem in question is in
imminent danger of becoming exalted above its
deserts, and regarded as a gem of Anglo-Saxon
literature for all time, The Bulletin begs to in-
form subscribers, constant readers, and the world
in general that it has hired a man to manufacture
epics of that description on the premises. Orders
for single effusions can be executed on the spur of
the moment, and a gross will be forwarded to any
address in town or country within a week of re-
ceipt of cash. Terms on application and carriage
prepaid. The hired individual in question throws
two samples of his chest herewith. This is the
first poem:—
Miss squeezed—
Displeased;
Try kiss—
Sigh bliss!
Rude grips
Glued lips ;
Call mar —
Altar.
The second poem is a sorrowful continuation of
the first, dealing with disillusionment and the
utter collapse of Love’s Young Dream :
Bride fair —
False hair;
Bald belle
Called “sell;”
She’s pad,
He’s mad ;
Vex’t groom
Next room.
# * #
r Typhoid fever is flourishing just now at
the fashionable Sydney suburb of Randwiok.
WE CANNOT MARRY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I love her more than life,
She loves me quite as dearly ;
And, yet, I see most clearly ,
She ne’er can be my wife.
She knows my little ways,
And strives those ways to humor ;
She heeds not idle rumour,
But with me spends her days.
I cannot with her mate
Though I have wed no other.
She is—my father’s mother,
A dame of ancient date.


Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
Mayor’s Ball.—Messrs. Oharlemont & Co., of
the Royal Arcade, respectfully beg to intimate to
all the ladies who attended the Mayor’s Ball, held
in the Centennial Hall, on the evening of the 27th
ultimo, that they are now photographing the ladies
who attended the ball for the purpose of making
up an album as a memento of the occasion.
Grosvenor Galleries, Royal Arcade.
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
Everybody says—and what everybody says must be true
—that Pemell’s Snow white Patent Roller Flour is the
best in the market.
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
Write for plans £lO Building sites, Perth,
vVestem Australia. Intercolonial Investment
Company, Limited, 96 Bathurst-street, Sydney.
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
T>
R
I
M
KL
el
O
S
o
jy
f
o
li
/Uenlts .
OELISSAt PHILLIPS
3» s Barack (Street.
Amusements.
rjt HEA T K E ROYAL.
Under the Management of Messrs. Williamson,
Garner and Musgrove.
Lessee, Mr. S. Lazar. Treasurer, Mr. Geo. L. Goodman.
TO-NIGHT, THURSDAY, AND EVERY EVENING,
Williamson, Garner and Musgrove’s
GRAND CHRISTMAS ANNUAL,
ALADDIKT. ALADDIN.
Admission—ss., 3s. and Is.
JJER MAJESTY’S THEATRE.
Lessee and Manager .... Mr. Geo. Rignold.
Doors open at 7 ; commencing 7.30. Carriages at 10.45.
To-Night and Every Evening,
Shakespeare’s Fairy Comedy,
A MIDSUMMER NIGHT’S DREAM.
Box Office at Theatre from 10 to 5. Prices as usual.
J. P. Macdonald, Acting-Manager.
CRITERION THEATRE.
Sole Proprietor .... Mr. John Solomon.
Under the Management of Messrs. Brough and Bouoioault.
General Manager . .. Mr. Mayne.
Doors Open, 7. Overture, 7.55. Carriages, 10.45.
TO-NIGHT, THURSDAY, and EVERY EVENING,
will be produced
FRIENDS. FRIENDS.
The Comedy is produced under the sole direction of
Mr. DION BOUOIOAULT, Jun.
Admission ... £2 2s. to Is.
Box Plan at Nicholson’s. Carriages at 10.40 p.m.
Joe Davis, Business Manager.
J|ONDI AQUARIUM.
The Most Popular
PICNIC and PLEASURE GROUNDS of AUSTRALIA,
The Famous Switchback Railway, conveying
Passengers from Cliff to Cliff daily.
Splendid Asphalt Open-Air Skating-Rink Free to Visitors.
Open Daily from 10 a.m to 10 p.m.
Admission, Is.; Children, 6d. Trams to Gate —Fare, 4d
JjXHIBITION BUILDING.
Under the Management of Messrs. M‘Mahon.
LAST NIGHTS ! LAST NIGHTS !
Of the Marvellous
SILBON
SILBON-STIRKS
SILBON-STIRKS
SILBON-STIRKS '
SILBON-STIRKS
SILBON-STIRKS j
Whose startling performances
are once more attracting such
a remarkable degree of in-
terest and nightly attracting
thousands of excited spec-
tators.
Proprietor, Silbon-Stirks—C. SILBON.
Popular Prices : 35., 2s. and Is.
LAST GRAND MATINEE-Saturday Next.
IJIHE CYCLO RAM A!
“ Arm! arm I It is, it is, the cannon’s opening roar.”
IS?” This, the most marvellous exhibition ever presented
in Australia, is
OPEN DAILY, 10 a.m. to 10 p.m. Sundays, 3to 10 p.m.
What is it ? What is it ?
Mr. O. O. Dangar, M.P., says: “The roar of cannon
and the rattle of musketry alone are wanted, and scarcely
wanted, to complete the marvellous illusion the artists’
skill so successfully induces.”
Mr. Wm. Beach, the ex-champion sculler, says : “ I
consider it the finest thing I have ever seen.”
Mr. T. K. Abbott, S.M., says: “Simply magnificent.”
Have you seen it ? Have you seen it ?
—The Great Gettysburg Cyclorama!—
To-day. To-day. Everyday. Everyday.
gCHOOL OF ARTS.
Lessee—Mr. Harry Rickards. Treas.—Mr. J. O. Leete.
Tremendous Success and Enthusiastic Reception of Mr.
HARRY RICKARDS’
NEW ENGLISH and IRISH COMEDY COMPANY,
In G. Walch’s Screaming Nautical Nightmare,
"THE LAIJD-LTJBBEB.’
Prices—3s., 2s. and Is. Plan at Nicholson’s.
Wm. A. Jinkins, Business Manager.
Shipping.
JJUDDART, PARKER and CO.’s LINE.
STEAM TO MELBOURNE AND
TASMANIA.
FROM HUDDART, PARKER’S WHARF :
FOR MELBOURNE WHARF DIRECT—
Elingamite | 4000 tons | Saturday, Jan. 11, noon
FOR LAUNCESTON, VIA MELBOURNE—
transhipping to S.S. NEWCASTLE.
Elingamite | 4000 tons | Saturday, J an. li, noou
FOR HOBART DIRECT— ~
Burrumbeet | 4000 tons | Tuesday, Jan. 14, 6 pan.
These magnificent Steamships have already established
a reputation for their aocommodation, and their large size
insures passengers a maximum of comfort. The SALOON
CABINS are light and airy and very roomy. FORE-
CABIN is on main deck, lofty and well ventilated. Com-
plete sanitation and lavatories. ELECTRIC LIGHTING
throughout the ships. Inspection invited on days of
sailing.
RETURN TICKETS AVAILABLE FOR SIX MONTHS.
For rates of Freight and Passage-money apply
HUDDART, PARKER & CO., Limited.
Offices and Wharf —Foot of Margaret-street.
gTEAM TO HOBART DIRECT.
S.S. BURRUMBEET, 4000 Tons,
Leaves Huddart, Parker’s Wharf, foot of Mar-
garet-street, on
TUESDAY, JANUARY 14,
at 6 p.m.
SUMMER EXCURSION FARES.
Saloon, single £2 0 0
Saloon, return 3 0 0
Second Cabin, single 10 0
Second Cabin, return 1 10 0
RETURN TICKETsTvAILABLE FOR
SIX MONTHS.
Cook and Son’s Tourist’s Tickets ... £7 O' C
issued at this office,
GREAT REDUCTIONS IN FREIGHT.
HUDDART, PARKER, & Co., Limited.
Office and Wharf—Foot of Margaret-street.
D
Shipping*
IREOT SERVICE TO ENGLAND.
PENINSULAR AND ORIENTAL STEAM
NAVIGATION COMPANY.
The Company’s Royal Mail Steamships (under
contract with the Imperial, New South Wales,
Victorian, and South Australian Governments)
will be dispatched from their Wharf, Circular
Quay, as under, for LONDON, calling at Mel-
bourne, Adelaide, Albany, Colombo, Aden, Brin-
disi, Malta, Gibraltar, and Plymouth.
Steamers.
Valetta
Ballaarat
Parramatt
Oceana
Shannon
Arcadia
And henceforth every alternate week.
RESERVED CABINS ON MODERATE
TERMS.
SALOON PASSENGERS MAY BREAK
THEIR JOURNEY.
The arrangements for SECOND SALOON
PASSENGERS having been thoroughly re-
organised, the accommodation now offered is un-
surptiss6(i«
Passage-money can be paid here for passages
from England. Liberal concessions made to
Passengers, cargo, and parcels are booked through
to India, China, and Japan. Cargo and parcels
will not be received after 3 p.m. on the day pre-
vious to sailing.
For all information apply at the Company s
Offices, 247 George-street.
A. MACLEAN, Acting Agent.
COMPAGNIE DES MESSAGERIES MARI-
TIMES.
SYDNEY to LONDON.
OVERLAND FROM MARSEILLES via PARIS.
Steamers under postal contract with the Government of
France, calling at MELBOURNE ADELAIDE, KING
GEORGE’S SOUND, MAKE, SUEZ, and PORT SAID.
Passengers booked to KURRACHEE, BOMBAY,
MAURITIUS, and EAST COAST of AFRICA.
The service is carried on by powerful steamers of 4000
tons and 3000 effective h.p., built expressly for the Aus-
tralian and New Caledonian line, which will be despatched
as follows: —
Steamers.
SYDNEY
SALAZIE
And thenceforward on the 25th of each month.
Rates of passage-money to Marseilles from £2O to £6O,
including table wines and Suez Canal dues on passengeis.
RETURN TICKETS issued at the following rates
Available 9 months
Available 12 months
English interpreters meet through passengers for
London on arrival of steamers at Marseilles, and accom-
pany them to Paris and Calais.
N.B. -Passengers’luggage conveyed free of cost from
Marseilles to London.
For freight, passage, and further particulars apply at
the Company’s Office, 15 Macquarie-place.
H. DE POSSEL,
Acting Principal Agent.
ORDDEUTSCHER LLOYD.
IMPERIAL GERMAN MAIL.
Passengers are carried according to the requirements of
the English Passenger Acts of 1885 and 1863.
MONTHLY LINE OF DIRECT STEAMERS
from
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, and ADELAIDE,
to SOUTHAMPTON, ANTWERP, and BREMEN, via
COLOMBO, Aden, Suez, and Genoa,
taking passengers for London,
connecting from PORT SAID by DIRECT MAIL and
PASSENGER LINE to BRINDISI,
will be despatched as follows (if practicable)
And thereafter every four weeks.
PASSAGE MONEY from SYDNEY,
£l4 to £57 10s.
RETURN TICKETS, available for NINE and TWELv E
MONTHS, at REDUCED RATES.
Passengers and Cargo are booked through to New York,
via Southampton. . . . .
Special facilities are afforded for bringing out relatives
and friends from the United Kingdom and Europe hy pre-
payment of the passage money in Australia.
For FREIGHT, PASSAGE, and all further particulars,
appl' to FREDK. BETZ & CO., Agents,
5 O’Connell-street.
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF NEW
ZEALAND, Limited.
SAN FRANCISCO ROYAL MAIL SERVICE.
OVERLAND ROUTE TO ENGLAND VIA SAN
FRANCISCO AND NEW YORK,
Calling at
AUCKLAND and HONOLULU,
Avoiding alike the heat of the Red Sea and the cold
of Cape Horn.
Under Contract with the Postmasters-General of New
South Wales and New Zealand, the steamers of this line
are appointed to leave Sydney and Auckland for Honolulu
and San Francisco every four weeks, sailing as under;—
Each steamer carries a duly qualified surgeon.
These steamers are fitted with Electric Light and with a
Refrigerating Chamber for ship provisions, insuring a
plentiful supply of ice throughout the voyage.
Passengers are booked to San Francisco or through to
European destinations and have at San Francisco choice of
the unrivalled Atlantic Steamship Lines of the Cunard,
Inman, White Star, and other companies.
All first-class passengers are allowed 3501 b. of baggage
to San Francisco and 2501 b. “Overland ” free of charge.
THROUGH FARE TO LIVERPOOL.
FIRST-CLASS .. .. •• £63 to £66.
Time-cards, railway maps, and glide books, showing all
routes to any point in the United States, may be had on
application . „ „ , ,
For rates of passage and freight and other informa-
tion apply at the Company’s Offices, 15 Bridge-street.
PREDK. W. JACKSON, Manager.
Furniture, &c.
EWT O N AND LAMB.
FURNITURE and PIANOFORTE
WAREHOUSEMEN,
CABINETMAKERS, UPHOLSTERERS
SPRING and O’CONNELL STREETS.
EASY CHAIRS, for Parlour, Library, or Bed-
rooms, new designs, covered to order, in
any material.
PIANOFORTES, by R. LIPP and SOHN,
L. NEUFELD and other Celebrated
Makers at WHOLESALE PRICES. Newton
and Lamb.
AGATELLE BOARDS, Portable, various
BEDROOM SUITES, complete, in various
Woods, and very handsome designs, with
7 feet Wardrobes, or with smaller Wardrobes for
single rooms. Great variety.
NEWTON and LAMB,
Furniture Warehousemen,
SPRING AND O’CONNELL STREETS.
BEDROOM SUITES, fashionable early
English designs—Wardrobe 4 feet, with
silvered plate-glass door : Washstand, with marble
top and tile back, Towel Rail; Toilet Table,
with Swing Glass attached; and Two Cane-
Seated Chairs, 14 guineas. |
AND
BEDDING MANUFACTURERS.
SHOW BOOMS AND MANUFACTORY:
sizes.
NEWTON & LAMB,
O’Connell and Spring Streets.
ƒ
CANVAS FOLDING
COTS, for camping
out. A cheap occasional
bed light, strong, anil
handy, 10s. Gd.
Newton & Lamb.
DINING- TABLES, with patent extending
screws, from 5 feet long and up to 20 feet.
WALNUT TELESCOPIC DINING
TABLES with extra leaves, strongly
made, £3 10s.
HALL FURNITURE, HATSTANDS and
CHAIRS. LARGE ASSORTMENT.
NEWTON & LAMB.
Library furniture, centre and
SIDE TABLES, BOOKC ASES, SECRE-
TARIES, READING and LOUNGE CHAIRS.
COMMODE CHAIRS, BIDETS, with Pan,
SHAVING STANDS, NEWTON and
LAMB.
JAPANESE BLINDS, White or Green (extra
quality), fitted with pulleys and cord, 6xB,
6s. 6d.; 8 x 8, 95.; 9 xB, 9s. 6d.; 10 xB, 10s. 6d.;
12x8, 12s. 6d.; 12x10, 15s. Newton & Lamb,
Furniture Warehousemen, Spring and O’Connell
Streets.
EASY CHAIRS for Parlour, Library or Bed-
rooms. New Designs covered to order in
any material. Newton & Lamb.
Self-adjusting chair and couch,
for Invalids and Medical Men.
T3OCKING EASY CHAIRS, elegant and
JLV restful —a speciality. Newton & Lame.
f
MERICAN PATENT
SHUT UP
CLOTHES DRYER.
135 feet of hanging space.
Very Cheap.
NEWTON and LAMB.
ƒ
ANYAS FOLDING
CHAIRS.
Substantial and Light.
Suitable for Shipboard and
Y erandah.
Price Very Low.
NEWTON and LAMB
Furniture Warehousemen,
Spring a Ni) O'Connerl Streets.
V
GARDEN SEATS, 6ft. long, Rustic Cast-iron
l4s. 6d., 195., 255., 325. 6d.
Newton and Lamb.
ERANDAH CHAIRS.
INDIAN LONG ARM LOUNGES.
Rattan verandah lounges, from
155.; and large variety of Chairs, from
10s. 6d.; special designs, extra quality. Newton
and Lamb, Furniture Warehousemen, Spring and
O’Connell Streets. .
EWT O N AND LAMB
FURNITURE and pianoforte
WAREHOUSEMEN,
CABINETMAKERS, UPHOLSTERERS
AND
BEDDING MANUFACTURERS.
Show Rooms and Manufactory ;
SPRING and O’CONNELL STREETS.
N
Undertaker Allison, of Melbourne, made
a generous and essentially seasonable Christmas
present to the local Women’s Hospital. When the
Ladies’ Committee held their Yuletide meeting,
“ Mr. Allison intimated he would supply, without
charge, coffins required for the coming year, and
consider the account for the past year settled. ” It
moves us to poetry, it does : —
The Grateful Patient.
A worn and wasted woman lay
Upon her bed of pain,
A prayer for health the livelong day
That patient prayed in vain;
But to her weary, wailing cry—
“ Ah ! woe, ah ! woe is me ! ”
The gentle nurses made reply—
“ You’ll get your coffin free.”
Twas hard to part from loving friends,
To leave her husband dear —
Yet Heaven, in its mercy, sends
One joy such hearts to cheer;
The tear that washed the woman’s eye
Was very sad to see,
Until they mentioned —“ When you die
You’ll get your coffin free.”
“ Bear up, bear up,” the nurses said,
“ And, prithee, try to smile,
For probably you will be dead
In quite a little while;
But little longer shall you stay
Where all seems dark and dree —
And when it’s time to go awayj
You’ll get your coffin free.
“ Though life, indeed, is very sweet,
Howe’er one’s lot is cast,
Yet Death, remember, must defeat
The strongest life at last ;
The moment we must go from here,
None know when it may be,
And millions leave us every year
Who don’t get coffins/ree.”
The worn and wasted woman smiled
At all those nurses kind ;
At last she felt quite reconciled
To leaving earth behind ;
She envied not the little bird
Which sang on yonder tree—
That gracious message she had heard —
“ You’ll get your coffin free.”
A solemn hush fell o’er the scene—
The nurses held their breath—
The patient, looking all serene,
Was at the point of death ;
She closed her eyes and softly sighed
A sigh of ecstasee,
Then turned her to the wall and died
And got her coffin free.
Miss Kate Drexell, of San Francisco,
worth £1,000,000, has been acquired by the R.C.
Church. In other words, she is now a nun.
Two Melbourne wharf-orators were pro-
secuted the other day for speaking disrespectfully
of the Premier, the Chief Secretary, Attorney-
General, and —said the wily policeman—" one of
the magistrates now sitting on the binch.” We
suppose that, amongst other things, the speakers
were emphasising: the assertion that Premier
Gillies ought to get married.
In the Press and shortly to be published,
the first of The Bulletin series, “ A Golden
Shanty—Australian stories and sketches in prose
and verse by Bulletin writers. ” Being a selection
from the brightest of the original literary matter
which has made The Bulletin world-famous.
Price one shilling; if posted 5d. extra.
THE LOVER’S DREAM.
The day was warm and Nancy D.,
Who lives in Manly by the sea ;
She is the girl who said she’d take
St. Louis Beer for her lover’s sake.
Her lover is such a nice young lad,
And Nancy made his heart so glad.
To church they have both gone to-day,
A happier pair never went that way.
Regardless of the sultry weather,
St. Louis Beer brought them together.


POREIGN & COLONIAL EXCHANGE BANK
* OF AUSTRALASIA, Limited.
Sydney~B6 King Street.
Melbourne— 369 Collins Street.
London Bankers—Australian Joint Stock Bank,
No. 2 King William Street, London, E.C.
Authorised Capital, £500,000.
T. S. RICHARDSON, Esq., Managing Director.
This Bank undertakes the Exchange of Money,
both International and Intercolonial, includ-
rag the Coinage of all Foreign Nations, in
addition to all usual and customary banking busi-
ness.
Deposits Received.
3 years 8J per cent.
12 months 8 per cent.
6 months 7 per cent.
3months ... ... ... 6 percent.
Communications to be addressed to “The
Managing Director.”
LOONG SHAN TEA HOUSE
Q
U
o
N
G
T
A
R
T
C
O
M
P
A
N
Y
NOW OPE N.
EXTENSIVE NEW PREMISES
(Nearly opposite Theatre Royal).
FIRST-CLASS GRILLS,
As well as all kinds of Refreshments, may
be obtained from 7.30 a.m. to 11.30 p.m.
CUP OF DELICIOUS TEA.
ICED DRINKS OF ALL KINDS, &c.
The rooms are splendidly furnished and
fitted up. In addition to the large and
well - appointed Refreshment Rooms,
gentleman will find on the Second Floor
Commodious and Comfortable Smoking
and Conversation Rooms, furnished with
Chess, Draughts, &c., &c.
TO THE LADIES.
On the First Floor will be found Nice
Private Room for Ladies, convenient for
Writing, Reading, &c., also Retiring
Rooms and Lavatory, with both hot and
cold water laid on. Inspection Invited.
Q
U
O
N
G
T
A
K
T
C
O
M
P
A
N
Y
Finest Teas imported—Packets |lb. and
upwards supplied. Orders promptly at-
tended to.
13 7 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
COUNTRY STOREKEEPERS, ETC.
Should twite or call upon
JL M. MARKS & CO.,
—lmporters of—
Furniture, Pianofortes, Glass, Earthenware,
CHINA, FANCY GOODS, ELECTRO-PLATE,
( ICA ICS A TOBACCONISTS SUNDRIES.
SOLE AGENTS FOR
Dawn Cigars and Salonica Turkish Cigarettes.
Special Novelties in all Lines for Christmas Trade.
Prices on Application to —
A.. M. Marks & Co-,
Vickery's Buildings, 74a Pitt Streeet, Sydney,
AND AT LONDON.
Telephone, No. 919.
Government Advertisements.
Department of Public Works,
Sydney, January 7, 1890.
T
ENDERS
FOR PUBLIC
SUPPLIES.
WORKS AND
For Conditions, see Government Gazette.
Dates to which
Nature of Works and Supplies. J ( , an be received
at this office.
Additions Cowper Wharf, W ool-
loomooloo Bay
Additions Police Buildings, Broken
Hill
Bridge, Laybury Creek, road
Wiseman’s Ferry to Singleton’s
Mill
Bridge over Creek, Ruahcutter’s;
Bay, road Sydney to Darling
Point
Erection of Shelter Sheds, New-
ington Asylum
Additions, &c., Cobar Gaol
Construction of Wooden Punt for
Richmond R ver
Construction of Wooden Punt for
Manning River
Laying on Wa er, Public Building,
Goulburn
Erection of Police Barracks, Mc-j
nindie
Wharf Harwood Island
Shed on Wharf, mouth of Man-1
grove Creek, Hawkesbury Riverj
(fresh tenders)
Erection of Police Buildings, Deep-
water (fresh tenders)
Covering with Iron Roofs Hospital
for the Insane, Parramatta
(fresh tenders)
Additions Courthouse, Tamworth
(fresh tenders)
Bridge Beckett’s Creek, road
Parramatta to Liverpool
Bridge Parramatta River at Fos-
pital for the Insane (fresh
tenders)
Painting and Repairs Police
Station, Tighe’s Hill (fresh
tenders)
Construction of Boilers, &c.,
Pumping Station, Ryde, North
Shore W.S.
Bridge Ulandrie Creek, road Be-
th ungra to Ironbong
Iron-decked C id vert, Waites Creek,
Argyle-street, Mossvale
Erection of Ashfield Post and
Telegraph Office
Erection of Bridge Burrowa River
at Burrowa
Repairs, &0., Lighthouse, New-
castle
Erection of Shed at back of Ad-
miralty Wharf, Wcolloomooloo
Bay
Repairs Lockup, Moruya
Repairs, &c., Post and Telegraph
Office, Lrenfell
Fencing, &c., Courthouse and
Police Buildings, Narrabri
Repairs Cu-tom House, Newcastle
(fresh tenders)
Erection of Courthouse, Copeland
Installation o'- Electric Light,
Bullock Island, Newcastle
Wednesday,
Jon. 22,
at 11 o’clock.
Wednesday,
Feb. 5,
at 11 o’clock.
Wednesday,
May 14,
at 11 o’clo' k.
BRUCE SMITH,
Department of Lauds,
Sydney, 20th December, 1889.
RABBIT NUISANCE ACT OF 1883.
Kates of Assessment.
IT is hereby notified for public information that
His Excellency the Governor, with the advice
of the Executive Council, has been pleased to
approve of the Asse sment leviable under the
19th section of the Rabbit Nuisance Act of 1883
being fixed at the maximum rates for the year
1890, viz. ; —-
s. d.
On all horses or cattle or horses and
cattle exceeding 200 head belonging
to the same owner, per head 0 11
On all sheep exceeding 1000 belonging to
the same owner, per sheep 0 0|
JAMES N. BRUNKER.
a VEWS FROM A DISTANT LAND. 5 ’
£9.0 for Is.
Australian Natives’ Association
NATIONAL FETE & AET UNION,
Friendly Societies’ Gardens, Melbourne,
27th JANUARY, 1890
(Anniversary of the landing of Capt. Cook in N.S.W.)
Ist Prize—FOUß-ROOMED VILLA, value £4OO.
2nd Prize—ALLOTMENT of LAND (Box Hill), value £lOO.
3rd Prize—OlL PAINTING, “News from a Distant Land,”
by D. Davies, Australian artist, value £7O.
And a large number of other prizes.
Tickets ... Is. each, or 22 for £l.
From Local Agents, or THOS. RENBERTHY,
Secretary, 119 Swanston-street, Melbourne,
Ask for the
Unequalled
“DAWN” 3d. CIGAR,
Of all
Tobacconists
ƒ
Store
AND
Hotel
KEEPERS.
Wholesale Agents: A. M. MARKS & Co., 74a PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
DAwsomVj
DAWSON'S
Sole Agents for Australasia
VAUGHAN, EOGEES & 00.,
(Opposite G.P.0.)
10ft PITT STREET. SYDNEY.
p
E
U
F
E
C
T
I
O
N
WHISKY.
SUB-AGENTS WANTED
IN THE
PRINCIPAL CENTRES
THROUGHOUT AUSTRALASIA
10 ALL WHOM IT MAY CONCERN
£100 REWARD.
Hundreds of testimonials have from time to
time been published in the Australian Press laud-
ing the well-known merits of St. Jacobs oil, testi-
monials from leading and representative men and
other reputable citizens of Australia, Great
Britain, and America, and a cash reward of one
hundred pounds will be paid by the Charles A.
Vogeler Company of Baltimore, Maryland, United
States of America, proprietors of St. Jacobs oil,
or by their accredited local representatives, to any
person producing proof to the effect that the tes-
timonials published by them in regard to St.
Jacobs oil are not strictly genuine. St. Jacobs
oil has a greater demand and larger sale than all
other embrocations and liniments in the world
collectively. It conquers pain. It cures Rheu-
matism, Neuralgia, Headache, Toothache, Back-
ache, and all similar ailments. Directions for use
in eleven languages.
MATCH IT.
Here Follows Just a Sample op what the
Greatest Remedy fob Pain can do in a
Case of Chronic Rheumatism.
A CRIPPLED BOY.
Some years ago, Messrs. Goorge C. Osgood and
Co., Lowell, Mass., wrote to the Charles A.
Vogeler Co. as follows Mr. Lewis Dennis, 136
Mi ody-street, desires to recommend St. Jacobs
oil to any afflicted with rheumatism, as he has
obtained benefit by using it, but he desires
especially to say, that “Orin Robinson, of Grant-
ville, Mass., a boy of 12 years, came to his house
in the summer of 1881, walking on crutches, his
left leg being being bent back. He could not
walk upon it. Mr. Dennis had some St. Jacobs
oil in the house and gave it to him to rub on his
knee. In six days he had no use for crutches, and
went home well without them, and he has been
well since. St. Jacobs oil cured him.”
CONCLUSION—NO RELAPSE.
“Lowell, Mass., July 9th, 1887. Gentlemen, —
Mr. Lewis Dennis has just called upon me, and in-
forms me of the boy Orin Robinson, who was a
poor cripple on crutches, and was cured by St.
Jacobs oil in 1881; the cure has remained per-
manent. The young man has been and is now at
work every day at manual labour, a case certainly
which proves the efficacy of St. Jacobs oil. Mr.
Dennis tells me also that he had rheumatism
in his knee (tried many remedies, but of no use)
and it cured the rheumatism permanently, as it
has not troubled him for years.— Geo. C. Osgood,
M.D.”
IN SHORT,
By this showing St. Jacobs oil cures the worst
chronic and crippled cases ; cures promptly, cures
permanently; in this case without recurrence of
pain in six years intervening since 1881. Sold by
all chemists and dealers in medicine.
Wholesale depot for N.S.W. :
Messrs. Elliott Bros., Limited, Sydney.
LOW COST v. CHEAP WATCHES,
The Waterbury is not a cheap watch in the or-
dinary sense of the term ; it is simply a first-class
timepiece manufactured at low cost, through an un-
exampled combination of inventive genius in
producing wonderfully accurate machinery, allied
to the use of materials that are first-class in
quality, but as inexpensive as possible, and
those joined to a multiplicity of construction
that permits labour to be utilised to its
blithest possible extent. The labour, like the
material, is of the highest order of its class, and is
correspondingly remunerated. It simply demon-
strates that an intelligent American workman,
thoroughly trained to his position and aided by
manifold and perfect acting machinery, can earn
not only far superior wages, but can produce more
at less cost than the ignorant, dull and plodding
European who follows in the footsteps of his
ancestors, and who no more dreams of progress
than lie does of aspiring to a companionship with
kings. The hand-fitted Swiss watches are pro-
duced at what Americans would term starvation
wages. They are correspondingly poor in
every particular. Tiny are cheap. They
arc "made to sell. They fulfil their purpose,
and they bring execrations upon the heads
of retail watch-dealers. Look for a moment
into the future. Does it pay to disgust
a customer? Above all, if that customer
is a boy ? A boy feels disappointment keenly.
He spends his money upon a watch that will not
last, that cannot be made to keep time. Does he
forget it ? His companion buys a low cost Water-
bury, which does keep accurate time, and which
will and does last. He has confidence in the
dealer. But does the first boy feel kindly towards
the man who sold him the cheap Swiss watch?
No. In later years he will avoid that dealer, and
say to himself, “ That’s the man who stuck me on
a cheap watch.”
'KJ
f
f'H
ml
mmi'A
m
m
fit SOAP
i (O'
Is made with the utmost care from materials
which are
Selectei with the greatest regard for Purity,
and for the
SOOTHING and BENEFICIAL EFFECT
which they impart to the Skin and Complexion.
Sold by all Chemists and Dealers in
Toilet Requisites.
The Referee.
Herewith we publish a solemn chunk from
a ballad, or hymn, or something, which is de-
clared to have created a profound impression upon
humanity at one of the Melbourne music-halls : -
In this weary life of toil
In Life’s sorrow and turmoil,
His good qualities how fondly we’ll unfurl.
He was both our boast and pride,
The colon! il lad who died -
Australia’s champion oarsman, Henry Searle.
The local Punch states that during the progress
of this paralysing ditty “not a sound is heard
save the voice of the singer.” The audience don’t
cry “Cheese it!” in a great, loud voice, nor do
they discharge firearms at the vocalist. Not so
much as one half-stifled sob breaks upon the
ghastly silence. The natural inference is that
they all die right away, like the poor champion.
After which their good qualities are “unfurled”
by sorrowing relatives.
* * #
A “ Greek Champion Wrestler of the
World ” will shortly be appearing in London.
The chances are ten to one that his system of
Graeco-Roman ground-tumbling is quite different
to that followed by ‘Muldoon, Cannon, Connor,
Miller & Co.
* * *
The perennial Jack Roberts, jun., appears
to be British Billiards Champion rather more than
ever. He recently beat Mitchell in three succes-
sive “spot-barred” games of 4000 points, conced-
ing a start of 1000 points in each game. To give
an idea of the immense development that has
taken place in the billiards art of its present ex-
ponents—exactly twenty years ago William Cook
played old Roberts for the championship, at St.
James’ Hall, and won after a tight struggle. The
game was 1200 up, with “spot” allowed. Nowa-
days, limiting himself to all-round play, the old
champion’s step-son rattles off 2000 points in an
evening without turning a hair.
After perusing the letter from Mr. Pugilist
Mick Nathan appearing in last issue of the
Sporting Echo we presume the Athletic Editor
of the Melbourne Sportsman will at once take
steps to remove an unwelcome ri val from the field
by means of a libel-action,
* * *
The Y.R.C. do their best to induce large
fields and plenty of “triers” for the New Year’s
Day meeting, but the fixture has been rather a
sporting failure of recent years, added money
notwithstanding. The public rolled up in their
thousands on the Ist. (particularly to the Grand
Stand) and everything except the racing was fresh
and fair to see, from the juvenile Governor down
wards. That nice, clean-looking young gentleman
burst upon the scene in his official barouche and
four, with postillions, ponderous harness, and
etceteras in the best early English style. A good
deal of public sympathy and commiseration was
directed towai’ds the postillions’ solid white leather
breeches, through which no breath of zephyr
breeze can ever come to comfort the legs of those
badly-used menials. Had Hopetoun worn a pair
of such breeches, for half an hour, in the swelter-
ing heat of Wednesday week he would probably
have fainted right away for the remaining term of
his natural life. As regards the racing, however,
only four youngsters turned out for the historic
Normanby Stakes, and backers—frightened by
mysterious whispers about the stable ‘ ‘ not going
for it ” —allowed Magic Circle to win at 4 to 1.
Yet Magic Circle, on the Caulfield running with
Utter, is the best two-year-old brought forth this
seison. Most of the jockeys behind Fishwife
seemed to be bent on letting that speedy mare
win the Standish as easily as possible, the Hurdle
Race aromed a lot of well, or ill-founded dis-
content—in short everything went flat barring the
£lOOO Bagot Plate. For this three Caulfield Cup
winners in Oakleigh, Chicago and Boz, divided
favoritism, and little Chintz struggled home from
the two latter. Oakleigh cut up indifferently,
which was especially disloyal considering that
Mr. Donald Wallace took the Cov. outside to
inspect his recent purchase before the animal
(Oakleigh, not His Excellency) was saddled up.
Altogether Melbourne punters started the New
Year werry badly, while local tipsters were put to
hideous confusion. The scratching of Merriment
for the Standish upset a horde of city men who
meant to be merry if that Stock Exchange fancy
got home.
* * *
Joe Sadler, the cable tells us, has joined
the great army of athletic “champions ” who die
before their time, and he is now, let us hope, pull-
ing with the tide on the Shining River. Joe, as
The Bulletin lately had occasion to mention,
was never a great oarsman, even according to the
standard of 20 years ago. Kelly was his master
both before and after Renforth shot to the front,
and not until the one was dead and the other
(who still lives) grown fat could Joe Sadler
call himself champion. Nevertheless, his name
will always be associated with the palmy
days of professional rowing in the old
country. The Britishers who tried to keep the
game going after Ins retirement—Elliott, Higgins,
and Boyd—were undoubtedly below Sadler’s
best form, while even they were too good to be
mentioned in the same breath with the Bubear of
to-day. For the dead man’s epitaph it might be
written that he was the hist English sculler in
whose powers his countrymen placed any c nfi-
dence even as he was the first to lose the cham-
pionship to a stranger. Probably thousands of
men, scattered all over Australia, said “ Poor old
Sadler !” when they read the announcement of Ids
death.
The Sydney newspapers have discontinued
publishing the amounts in probates and adminis-
tration. Is this by order of the new judge ?
The house in which Mrs. Jamieson was
murdered by Knatchbull, in 1844, still stands at
the north-east corner of Kent and Margaret-streets,
Sydney. It is now a butcher’s shop.
The British dudes now “ hind a crimson
or black sash four times round their waists, in-
stead of wearing evening waistcoats.” This gives
the fat man a show to wear a sash once round and
swear it has ten folds.
At a recent Church congress a Presbyterian
minister telegraphed to another to ask him if he
could take his church on Sunday, as he did not
think he could be back in time. He got for reply :
“Sorry I can’t oblige you— wife ill, partly in bed.”
“Which part?” wired back that flippant parson.
The Burrowa (N.S. W.) Times, in a recent
obituary notice, says that the deceased has gone
“ where the wicket cease from troubling and the
weary are at rest.” Thank goodness, there will
be no cricket in Heaven. And, thank Heaven,
there will, according to all accounts, be no sculling
in Sheol.
We have received from W. E. Toose, the
consulting optician and spectacle maker, of 418
George-street, Sydney, a little treatise on “Vision”
containing much valuable information concerning
the treatment of its defects and the means of
preserving it from injury. This work contains a
sight gauge and is likely to be extremely useful.
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
Everybody should use Pern ell’s latest best Snow-white
Patent Roller Flour. It is the greatest success of the
age.
Use Batho's Baking Powdery
F. P. SLAVIN TALKS.
The English so love the Australians
When we make for their profit and pelf,
But our “ forefathers ” seem pretty scaly ’uns
When we try to win triumphs ourself.
When dock-strikers seek for assistance,
Or the niggers swoop down on Khartoum,
Hearts leap o’er the ocean of distance
And our soldiers and cash cause a “ boom.”
But when Slavin fights Smith and defeats him,
And brings down the British prestige,
The Birmingham mob nearly eats him
And with brickbats his comrades besiege.
Its the same story over and over,
“ We’ll flatter you when you’re of use,
But if rivalry once we discover
Expect our ill-will and abuse. ”
C.R.W.


Medical.
A Wonderful Remedy-
MARSHALL’S TONIC NERVINE
Is now Universally Acknowledged to he a wonderful
Remedy for Nervous and General Debility, Nervous
Prostration, Torpidity of the Liver, Indigestion, Palpit-
ation of the Heart, Nervous Headache, Diabetes, Lassitude,
Impaired Nutrition, Neuralgia, Hypochondria, Loss of
Energy, and Appetite, Female Complaints, Dizziness
Noises in the Head and Ears, Loss of Vital Power, Alcholic
Craving, Premature Decline, Impoverished Blood, Im
paired Sight and Memory, Consumption in its early stages,
Effects of Youthful Indiscretions, Mania, and all diseased
conditions of the system preceding from Deficiency oi
Nerve Force. A few doses speedily afford relief,_ whilst a
course effects a permanent cure. Innumerable instances
emphatically testify to the truth of this statement.
Thousands of testimonials invite the afflicted to test it for
themselves.
Each Drop is Worth a Drop of Gold.
There is no remedy- like Marshall’s Tonic Nervine for
Female Complaints. Every female should have a
bottle ready at hand, because for Irregularities,_ etc.,
it surpasses all others. As the nervous system is the
main-spring of human vigor and healthful regularity,
so where this complicated organism i s deranged, Marshall’s
Tonic Nervine acts with a precision and curative effect
like, the day spring dispersing the shades of night. The
whole oi'ganic system which depends upon the nerves for
its streams of electric force is recuperated and renewed
with th's Great Yitaliser. The muscles rebound with the
energy of youth, appetite and healthful condition follow.
The skin bright and clear, and the winter of
disease is made summer by the glorious sun of health.
Thousands of restored patients everywhere gladly support
the forcible truth of these assertions, and one trial will
render certainly doubly sure.
Marsh.all’s Tonic Nervine
Is sold by all Chemists and Storekeepers, and is
ONLY PREPARED BY
MARSHALL BROTHERS,
410, George Street, Sydney,
N.B. —In consequence of spurious imitations of “Tonic
Nervine,” w-hioh are calculated to deceive the public,
Marshall Bros, have to request that purchasers see that
the Label on every bottle hears their signature, thus—
without which no bottle is genuine. Ask for Marshall’s
Tonic Nervine and see that you get it. Trade mark:
“Tonic Nervine.”
BOOK of HATURE and Illustrated
Matrimonial Quids.
A full and explicit ex-
planation of the strac-
ture and uses of the organs of life and generation in man
and woman, intended especially for the married, or those
intending to marry, and who conscientiously and honestly
desire to inform themselves upon the intent and nature
of marriage and its duties, to which is added A COMPLETE
MEDICAL TREATISE upon all diseases of the generative
organs, whether resulting from infection or sexual excesses
and abuse, with much other valuable and highly important
information, illustrated with more than fifty engravings,
by M. Lafayette Byrn, M.D. Price 3s. 6d., pest 4s.
The Fruits of Philosophy' or Private Companion for
Married People, post Is. 2d. Mrs. Besant’s Law of Popula-
tion, Is., post Is. 2d. Wonderful Song Book, extra large,
Is. 6d. Decameron Boccaccio, 2s. Aristotle, complete,
3s. 6d., post 4s. Maria Monk, Is. 6d., post Is. 9d. New
complete Fortune Teller, 2s.
“The Matron's Manual ol Midwifery,” the book every
married woman needs; price 75., posted 7s. fid.
“ Nigger Stump Speeches and Comic Pattern,” price 6d.
“The Male Generative Organs,” their use and abuse
with many illustrations and coloured plates; price 75.,
post 7s. 6d.
1
The arts of Boxing, Swimming and Gymnastics made
easy, enabling any one to become an expert Boxer and
Athlete, illustrated with fifty engravings, price Is., post
free. Agent for London Reynolds, Referee, Dispatch,
Dublin Freeman, Glasgow Mail. Advanced, and Republican
literature on sale.
Six* Robert Bear,
Radical Book Stores,
16)4 PARK STREET, SYDNEY.
CARLSBAD
NATURAL MINERAL WATERS
are now Imported in bottles and used in treat-
ment of CHRONIC GASTRIC CATARRH, HYPER
(EMIA of the LIVER, GALL STONES, CHRONIC
CONSTIPATION, DIABETES, RENAL CALCULI,
GOUT, and diseases of the spleen arising from
residence in the tropics or malarious districts.
THE NATURAL
CARLSBAD SPRUfIEL-SALT
In small and frequent doses is an efficient
DIURETIC.but as an APERIENT it should be taken
BEFORE BREAKFAST, in doses of from 1 to 2 tea-
spoonfuls, dissolved in water. To increase the
APERIENT action of the Carlsbad Mineral Water,
a teaspoonful of the Salt, previously dissolved
In water should be added.
SOLE CONSIGNEES for the U.K. and. the Colonies
INGRAM & ROYLE, S 2, Farringdon St., London,
And of all Chemists throughout the World.
The Natural Mineral Waters of
(STATE
ƒ
SPRINGS.)
GRANDE-GRILLE.—For Affections of the
Liver, Biliary Organs, &c.
CBLESTINS.—For the Kidneys, Gravel, Gout
Rheumatism, Diabetes, &c.
HOPITAL. — For Stomach Complaints.
HAUTERIYE. — An excellent Table Water.
OF ALL CHEMISTS IN AUSTRALASIA.
GB. MODINT, Gunmakcr, informs his Customers
■ and the Public in general that he has the largest
assortment of Firearms in the colony. Qualities and prices
to defy competition. Agent for the following celebrated
gunmakers :—J. Purdey & Sons, Cii. Boswell, John Rigby
and Co., Joseph Lang & Sons, Ch. Osborne & Co., Thomas
Bland & Son. A large assortment of various other makers
always on hand, viz., W. W. Greener, Scott, VVebley,
Hollis & Sons, Riley and Cashmore. All goods will be
faithfully guaranteed at 602 Gcorgc-Stroet, Sydney.
Price list on application.
Building Sites, City of Perth, W.A. Planfj
ntercoloniallnvestment Co., Limited, 96Bathurs
treet, Sydney.
When next you bake try Pemell’s Snow-white Patent
iOLLER Flour, and your bread will be as white as snow,
Nota Bene ! In addition to their High Class old
Vines, Messrs. Hockings & Co., of 410 George-street, have
ccepted the agency of the Australian Wine Company,
.United, for their superior cheap wines.
Special Advertisements.
fOHN BRIDGE & 0 0.,
CIRCULAR QUAY, SUSSEX STREET, A
DARLING HARBOUR,
WOOL BROKERS,
Tides, Tallow, Sheepskins, Kang.aroo, Bear and
Opossum Skins, Ac.
AUCTIOLIEESS.
SHFLA.HKT SALESMiEM,
DR. SPEER’S
AMERICAN DISPENSARY
3 1 Y ork Street.
P.O. Box 920.
Dr. Speer is a regular Graduated Physician, educated at
Harvard College, U.S. (for confirmation see New Zealand
lazette, January 21st, 1886; also New South Wales
lazette, April 17th, 1888). The doctor has devoted 14
/ears to the study of CHRONIC, NERVOUS, AND
SPECIAL DISEASES. Four of these were in the leading
'.ospitals of the United States, which enables him to treat
II complaints with excellent results. All applying to
dm will receive his honest opinion of their complaints,
vo experimenting ;no Mercury used. He will guarantee
positive cure in every case he undertakes, or forfeit
,‘2OO. His reason for doing so is this—when there is not
•rganic disease, and nothing but an inorganic trouble, or,
n other words, a conglomeration of symptoms producing
i certain result, there is no reason why it cannot be re-
lieved with the proper remedies, therefore he guarantees,
le wishes it distinctly understood that he does not claim
o perform impossibilities, or to have miraculous power
le claims only to be a skilled and successful physician
horoughly informed in his speciality—CHßONlC AND
SPECIAL DISEASES of MEN and WOMEN. People
esiding at a distance can, by explaining their troubles in
letail be treated at home. The course of treatment will
not in any way interfere with their business. Examina-
tion and advice free to all. Charges moderate. H. J.
Speer, M D., 31 York-street, Sydney. Post Office Box,
No. 920. Office hours, 10 a.m. 012 a.m. 2to 4 and 7
to 8 p.m. Sundays from 10 to 11 a.m. only.
TO YOTJKTG- MEX.
DR. FLETCHER’S
TREATISE ON NERVOUS DISEASES, THEIR CAUSE,
SYMPTOMS, TREATMENT, AND CURE.
THE directions contained in this little treatise will be
found of immense benefit to the sufferer ; and if these
directions are observed during- the early stages of Nervous
or Sexual Debility, No Medicines will be required, as, by
observing the directions given, the patient can Cure Him-
self.
This admirable little treatise is specially written to
show a method of counteracting the evil effects of indis-
cretions in early life—overwork, irregularity in eating or
drinking, &c. It is the result of much study and long
and successful experience in the treatment of diseases,
and contains a fund of useful information to every suf-
ferer from the following complaints, viz.:—Nervous
Debility, Dizziness, Specks before the Eyes, Pains in the
Back, Defective Memory, Loss of Will Power, Loss of
Energy, Spermatorrhoea, Bashfulness, Discontentedness,
Constipation, Liver and Kidney Derangements, Atrophy,
Impotence, Impure Blood, Foul Taste in Mouth, Palpita-
tion of Heart, Wakefulness, Despondency, Excessive Ner-
vousness, Inability to Marry, Premature Decay, and other
symptoms experienced by nervous sufferers.
All Should Send for this Little Treatise.
If the complaint is of long standing and requires
medicine, Dr. Fletcher will GUARANTEE TO CURE
ANY CASE OF NERVOUS or SEXUAL DEBILITY’
with ONE COURSE OF MEDICINES LASTING FIVE
WEEKS, and will send with medicines A WRITTEN
GUARANTEE to cure same or return the monies paid.
Dr. Fletcher’s treatment is both simple and effective,
and within the reach of the poorest. It is unlike any
other, and with it he has cured over 25,000 patients, and
invites patients to investigate his statements by verifying
the testimonials published in his treatise. The treatise
will be forwarded on receipt of two stamps to cover
postage.
CONSULTATION BY LETTER, FREE.
Address in first instance—
DR. H. EWART FLETCHER,
Box 1417, G.P.O.
Sydney, N.S.W.
Private address—Clonmel House, Waverley, Sydney.
Remember, all cases undertaken, guaranteed, and a
signed agreement given, which provides that NO COST
be incurred by the patient if a cure is not effected.
VARICOCELE RADICALLY CURED WITHOUT
OPERATION.
Mention this Paper.
m
VaSl
M'OX ' .s
.ss.
■mi
i ord
StJL
/7jli
ym
■ 1
£r*
W
sgsg
IB'-’
I ECTRIC PHOTO-ENO. CO . 8 BRIDOE-ST.. SYDNEY.
The ° xford Hotel, 3K:Im.ST Street, Sydney.
H. THORPE ... ... ... PropRiETOR.
JONES’ SEWING MACHINES
FOR THE BOOT AND TAILORING TRADES.
The Best Manufacturing Machines in Existence.
Now Perfected, the New No. 3 and No. 4 Machines on an Entirely new System.
stock:
Farlei^h,
TANNERS
16 x York
JUST LATTDINTG.
HXTettlielm, & Oo
AND LEATHER MERCHANTS,
street, x gymvTT»y
•*
Sole Agents for the above for New South Wales and Queensland.
ALSO Importers of Requisites for the BOOT MANUFACTM
IMPORTED LEATHERS, &c. ; and of the following Special Lines: Peerless I. 1 ’
Blaeklue. Tanners’ Tools and Materials, pgr nvL,.*.?* Nubian
URING TRADE in all Details, including MACHINERY
AL I Ll ? ES ; **e‘‘r<cBB Gloss, Satin Polls! “ ’
Indents Executed on Favourable Term*.
Medical.
DR. RICHARDS.
rooM^
CONSU
I'll
Sir-»
RICHARDS *
EmTEhuTm
Mfl
r
if ■ --
V. ' S
This eminent Specialist, Founder, and Chief
Surgeon of the long-established and favourably-
known Dispensary that now bears his name, re-
ceived his medical education in the leading colleges
and hospitals of Europe. He has devoted a life-
time to the study of
PRIVATE, NERVOUS, AND SKIN
DISEASES.
He has by profound research thoroughly investi-
gated their origin, traced their deadly sources and
insidious dissemination, and ascertained the surest
and safest methods by which they may be eradi-
cated, with these widely recognised qualifications
combined with unswerving faithfulness to hi 5
patients, he has during his practice, extending
over FORTY YEARS, attained a well-deserved
pre-eminence in their treatment. His practice
embraces dissases which pi’obably cause more un-
happiness than anv other class of troubles that
afflict mankind.
YOUNG MEN
who suffer from the results of early follies, trans-
gressions or excesses of more nature age, bladder
difficulties, a whitish or dark ropy sediment in
the water, accompanied by slight burning or
smarting sensation, Headaches, Drowsiness during
the day, circles round the eyes, Giddiness,
irregularity of the bowels, specks before the eyes,
bashfulness, discontentedness, weakness or pains
in the back, Liver or kidney complaints, dreams,
buzzing noises in the ears and head, pimples, a
fear that something dreadful is about to happen,
weak stomach, yellow or blood-shot eyes, impure
blood, hasty, uncontrollable temper, hacking
cough, who cannot marry, nervousness in society,
wakefulness, palpitation of the heart, general
weakness, and other symptoms which lead to in-
sanity and death, should consult him, for he has
mastered these difficulties. On receipt of 6d. in
stamps he will send secure from observation in a
plain wrapper, postage
FREE, A LARGE CLOTH-BOUND
BOOK.
Showing plainly how all diseases of the private or
nervous system may be cured thoroughly and per-
manently without unnecessary expence. This
book will prove a valuable companion, and even
though you be perfectly well its general inform-
tion and prescription may assist you in restoring
some poor friend to health even after his case has
been pronounced incurable by his medical at-
tendant.
ONE POUND IS SUFFICIENT TO
SEND
for Remedies necessary for the cure of NER-
VOUS DEBILITY. Should you require medical
treatment, as procrastination is sometimes dan-
gerous, it would he advisable for you to sit down
quietly in your chamber and write to the doctor,
detailing every experienced symptom. He will
on receipt of such a letter, write you, promptly
and courteously, a candid and straightforward
oponion of your case. If you do not think you
understand the case, send for his famous medical
work, the price of which is but sixpence ; enclosed
in the volume will be found a list of carefully-pre-
pared questions, which will, in all probability,
assist you materially in describing your ailment.
Dr. Richards uses nothing but the purest remedies,
and never prescribes mercury under any circum-
stances. The moment letters are carefully per-
used and answered they are destroyed by Are,
and patients may rest assured that their cases
will remain a secret between the doctor and
themselves. Dr. Richards has successfully treated
nearly 25,000 cases since coming to Australia, and
has permission from at least 10,000 persons to
show their written evidence of his success. All
communications should be addressed
Dr. RICHARDS,
■7 Spring Street
(Off Pitt Street North)
SYDNEY.
B» ante to mention this paper when writing
CONSULTATION TREE
ITS MORAL EFFECT.
UNCLE GEORGE: “Do you like to have such long hair?”
Charley : “No, I’d rather have it short myself, but Mamma wants me to look
like one of those d-d cherubs.”—YANK.


Business Announcements.
BEALE & COMPANY’S
OUR NEW SHOWROOMS AND HEAD OFFICES,
482 and 484 George Street,
“Oh, I feel so Mondayish !” exclaims the housemother
at her breakfast table on the Monday morning. _ Although
the above absurd adjective is not to be found in the dic-
tionary, yet every woman well knows its meaning when
she looks forward to the teeming, steaming, boiling, toil-
ing, temper-trying, hateful washing day. The house is
thrown out of joint, other weekly duties are, as far as
possible, set aside, the children kept out of the way, a cold
dinner for the family, and a warm reception for anyone
who intrudes to waste time and to prolong the agony. _
Happy, indeed, is the home where “washing day” is a
thing of the past. Every busy, hard-pressed mother
knows the wretchedness. and gloom which the present
washing day brings down upon the household. In the
early morning all is prepared for the all important washer-
woman, timed to arrive for an early breakfast, and then
to attack the week or fortnight’s batch of linen.
The good-natured husband readily excuses a hastily-pre-
pared breakfast, for he hopes it may betoken the speedy
ending of the dreadful day. The children are packed off
to school, and then begins in earnest the strife between
the housewife, anxious to get everything finished in good
time, and the professional laundress, equally anxious to
make the work last over two days. With the greatest
impartiality the laundress divides her attention between
the discussion of light refreshments and the_ very latest
gossip, the intervals of time being filled up with a gentle
application to her special functions
Very many of our valued customers to whom we have
supplied labor-saving appliances in the past, do their own
washing. In every family, in our climate, frequent
changes of underclothing are necessary. Then there are
the house linen, the cotton dresses, white coats, and
outer garments; and all this is heaped up for the poor
house-mother to cleanse, perhaps with the assistance of a
daughter, if there is one old enough. It is not that the
husband, who also works hard, is unkind. Expenses are
many, economy is imperative, days of depression and of
trouble must be provided against. So the washing is to
be done, and the wife must do it; and after the imperfect
rest of a sultry night, as she gets ready the breakfast upon
a hot Monday morning, she feels for a while that her lot
is cheerless, that the apportionment of toil is beyond her
share and beyond her strength ; that somehow a change
should he made. No wonder that fair young girls, after a
few’ years of married life, become worn-looking, and that
they age faster than they ought. The husband is willing
enough to cherish the good wife’s comeliness, and to make
her lot easy, but how ? She does not complain, only says
she feels always “ tired.”
Now', as purveyors of household implements, we have
long seen our opportunity to enlarge our business by
introducing a thoroughly efficient Washing and Mangling
Machine. Both these services must be combined in the
one article. This we have most perfectly and assuredly
accomplished. The demon of the washing day is not
scotched but killed.
We resolved to introduce nothing until absolutely certain
by observation, experiment, and test, that the implement
would be a success. There are hosts of Washing Machines.
The vast majority are childish fads, are injurious, or are
useless. We say and we prove that the Beale Patent
Washer will save in labour of washing in proportion as our
Sewing Machines do in sewing. And in a higher degree,
for the washing by hands is so much the more laborious.
The Beale Patent Washer may be described as follow’s ;
The vertical tub is very carefully made, with fluted sides.
It is stationary, only the water and the clothes being
agitated by an accurately shaped “ dolly,” which is worked
by a fly-wheel. The clothes are simply dropped in, no
arrangement or packing being wanted. The special
reversing gear moves this dolly swiftly backwards and for-
wards, and a very small expenditure of strength suffices
to lash the water into a mass of foaming suds. In the
process the clothes are floated to and fro, up and down ;
currents and cross-currents of water are formed, which
meet, and are forced through and through the fabric,
carrying away every particle of dirt and stain. The linen,
being merely suspended in the water, is not rubbed and
scrubbed as in hand-washing. Neither has anything to
submit to the hand-wringing process, which insensibly
rips, tears, and wears the clothes. Thus the most delicate
fabrics cannot be torn by our system of washing. Every-
one has noticed that their clothes seem to be as much
worn by washing as by use. This is caused by the fierce
rubbing they get upon washing boards, or by the hands.
With the Beale Patent Washing Machines this friction is
done away with. Therefore, the clothes will last far longer
than by hand-washing, however careful. When the wash-
ing is done, the tub should be wiped out, so that it be
always sweet and clean. There is no false bottom, and
nothing to accumulate greasy sediments.
IKTew Warelaouse,
SYDNEY.
A RADICAL REFORM
When you buy a Machine of any kind,
have a good one.
Beale & Company
482 St 484 George Street,
SYDNEY.
We have erected new Show-rooms, Offices, and
Warehouses, at No. 482 and 484, George-street,
Sydney, opposite Central Markets, and near to
the Royal Arcade. These are the loftiest com-
mercial buildings in the city, and can be seen from
all parts of the city and adjacent suburbs. The
Showrooms are the largest and finest in the
Southern Hemisphere, for the due display of the
splendid Hapsburg Pianos, Haydn Organs, and
Beale Patent Sewing Machines.
All goods may be had upon easy time-payment,
or for cash less three shillings in the pound.
Photographs, price-lists, and samples free by
post.
No matter where you live, we will supply you
with a Piano, Organ, Harmonium, Sewing Machine
or Washing Machine, upon easy time-payment.
Branches and Travellers throughout New South
'/ales and Queensland.
Business Announcements.
Tlie Combination Buggy
Is the latest thing on wheels, and can be used as ft
ZBTJQ-a-Y, DOG- CAET, OE CAEEIAGE.
As a one seat Buggy with ample room for two people
aEEiI
As a Dog Cart to carry four.
As a two seated Buggy to carry four.
A most useful and valuable vehicle for *»• variety of purposes.
WILLIAM FLEMING, 22 A 24 Clarence St., Sydney.
See Signature in
Blue Ink across
the Label thus:—
0
TJBIE
Liebig COMPANY’S
EXTRACT OF MEAT
for Beef Tea, Soups and Entrees
Anglo Scandinavian
Gold Medal s
Acknowledged
The Best.
Drapery.
HORDERN,
TAILOR,
207 Pitt Street.
Business Announcements.
THE WINNING NUMBERS.
BRITISH PLATE
& SHEET CLASS
$
iP
cr>
cn
WerSbl
o <■*
m W
2 O
n
PAbj/
in
5?
PC
c^>
€
&
i""
sa>
ARTISTIC
HOME DECORATORS.
Dr. westcott’S amenorrhcea
PILLS for Ladies, when taken for a few
days before, quickly _ correct all irregularities
from whatever cause arising ; 2s. 9d. and 4s. 6d.,
by post 3s. and ss. W. H. SOUL and CO., 190
Pitt-street, Sydney, Agents.
EuCALYPTE Ou-sa.
Victory Ointment*^
THE TREE OF LIFE.
mt afejfcge
The only pure Eucalypte In the World.
AWARDED Gold Medal Adelaide Jubilee
Exhibition. First Prize Great Centennial
Exhibition, Sydney. The only known CURE for
Asthma, Bronchitis, Consumption, Pleurisy,
Colds, Coughs, and all affections of the Chest and
Lungs; also, for Gout, Rheumatism, Sciatica,
etc. Our VICTORY OINTMENT stands with-
out a rival for Bad Legs, Bad Breasts, Cancers,
Tumours, and skin diseases of all kinds. Also,
manufacturers of the Eucalypte Pills, Eucalypte
Hair Restorer, Eucalypte Soap, and our world-
famed Eucalypte Honey is the best preparation
before the public for young Children and aged
people. Also, makers of the Eucalypte Lozenges
for the Voice. Manufactory— Cootamundra.
Sydney Wholesale Depot—2sl Elizabeth Street
Posted to any part of the Colonies, Sold Every-
where. Beware of Imitations.
ows
■-EMBROCATION
»*) I jh
f ' vS° L ° |
3/6


READ THIS ! Two Pounds’ (£2) worth of these preparations sent free to any part of the colony.
Armstrong’s Citron Saline, for cooling and purifying the
blood. An aperient effervescing salt. 2s; 18s doz.
Armstrong’s Blood Purifier or Anti-Scorbutic-a valuable
remedy where the blood has become vitiated through
residence in hot climates, with usual consequences of
bad water, deficient vegetable diet. 2s; 18s doz.
Armstrong’s Compound Sarsaparilla with Dandelion, lodide
of Potash, &c., for all impurities of the blood. 2s; 20sdoz.
Armstrong’s Eye Lotion for Blight and other inflammatory
affections of the eyes. The proprietor has received
numerous testimonials for cures effected by this lotion
when all other means had failed. Is ;8s doz.
Armstrong’s Sugar-coated Anti-bilious Pills. An infallible
remedy in cases of indigestion and other complaints
arising from an inactive liver. Is; 8s doz.
Armstrong’s Diarrhoea Mixtures gives instant relief in this
troublesome complaint. 2s; 18s doz.
Armstrong’s Gout and Rheumatic Mixture, lor gout,
rheumatism, sciatica, &0., &c. 8s 6d; 80s doz.
Armstrong’s Cough Elixir. An immediate cure for colds,
coughs, influenza, &c. 2s; 18s doz. .
Armstrong’s Podophyllin Pills, for liver complaints, im-
purities of the blood, &c. Is; 8s doz.
Armstrong’s Phosphorous Pills, for Nervous and General
Debility, &c. Is; 8s doz. ...
Armstrong’s Anodyne Liniment (or Pam 1 amt) for bruises,
sprains, rheumatic pains, &c. 2s; 18a doz.
Armstrong’s Cough Balsam, for chronic pulmonary affec-
tions and lung diseases. 2s; 18s doz.
Armstrong’s Golden Eye Ointment, for blight and all
diseases of the eyes. Is Cd; 13s doz.
Armstrong’s celebrated Ointment tor Piles. 2s,
18s doz. , ...
Armstrong’s Iron and Quinine Tonic, for loss of appetite,
Nervousness, General Debility, Neuralgia, &c. 2s.
Armstrong’s 156 Mixture for discharges. 3s 6d. _
Armstrong’s Pepsine Bismuth and Nux Vomica, for
chronic indigestion. 3s 6d &ss6d ; 80s & 58s doz.
Armstrong’s Quinine Wine. A most reliable brain and
nerve tonic. 2s 6d; 20s doz.
Armstrong’s Podophyllin Seidlitz Powders. A mild and
pleasant aperient. Is 6d; 15s doz.
Armstrong’s “ Arabian Ointment.” For healing all sores,
old wounds, burns, etc. (in pots). Is; 8s doz.
Armstrong’s Corn Paint and Solvent, for painlessly
removing corns, bunions, warts, &c. Is; 8s doz.
Armstrong’s Toothache Drops and Carbolic Nervine, for
immediate cure of toothache. Is; 8s doz.
Armstrong’s Resin, Carbolic, Zinc, Blue, White and Red
Percipitate Ointments (in boxes), (id ;5s doz.
Armstrong’s Dandruff Pomade, for eradicating scurf, dan-
druff, &c., from the hair. Is ;8s doz.
Armstrong’s Arabian Hair Renewer, for restoring grey
hair to its natural colour. Is 6d; 12s doz.
Armstrong’s Arabian Insect Powder. 9d; 6s doz.
Armstrong’s Indelible Ink, for writing on linen, silk, and
muslin. ls;Bsperdoz. , ..
Annstrong’s Lime Juice and Glycerine. A valuame
preparation for the hair. Is &2s; 8s & 18s doz.
Armstrong’s Transparent Cement (Cohesuline) for china,
glass, wood, leather, &c. 6d &Is ; 5s &8s doz.
Armstrong’s Carbolic Tooth Powder antiseptic. Is; 8s doz.
Armstrong’s Disinfectant, Carbolised Powder (in tins),
for drains, etc. 9d &Is6d ; Cs 6d & 12s doz.
Armstrong’s Sore Back Ointment forhorses. 2s; & 18s doz.
Armstrong’s Carbolic Dressing, for cuts and wounds
111 vwM 11 ra t Ci/' I,’ TSi Is lid ’Ks & 15s doz.
Armstrong s uiistefiiig umiuieiii-mo »»• *'"•*—j --
splints, curbs, etc. Is tid ; 13s doz.
Armstrong’s Worm and Condition Powders, for horses
(in tins). Cd &1 s ; 5s &8s doz.
Armstrong’s Gold Paint, Copper, Silver and Green Bronzes,
splints, curbs, etc. Is fid ; 13s doz.
i u' 3 Da
istrong’s Gold Paint, Copper, Silver anaureen
for decorating your home ornaments, statuary, &o.
all ready mixed. 6d ;8s doz.
INVENTED, MANUFACTURED and SOLD ONLY by H. C. ARMSTRONG, George Street NORTH (Near Circular Quay), SYDNEY.
Tbo SS e B , Belts, Soppoets, Elastic Stockikcs, Knee ‘ T ° s ’, A^^J^ W S!sb“ rm*' MOT V«TED rREE )-
FOR DRUGS, CHEMICALS, PATENT MEDICINES and DRUGGISTS SUNDRIES, EEP
This is written in the fond hope of directing
public attention to the deplorable plight of one
Brighton Haynes, an agricultural person, living
near Mount Buck, Croajingolong, Vic., who is
suffering under an aggravated form of too much
mother-in-law, and spends most of his time in a
state of physical prostration, cold perspiration
and moral distress, in consequence of having two
mothers-in-law raging up and down in violent
opposition and tempestuous wrath. Two years
ago Brighton Haynes was a single individual with
a contented mind and a wide spread of pastoral
land, but in an unguarded moment he _ con-
tracted matrimony with a female who flourished
on an adjacent lot, and took her home to help
him pursue his avocation and assist him to live in
peace and prosperity. Unfortunately the young
woman had an encumbrance in the shape of a great,
voluble, square-built female foster-parent who
came ever of evenings and on fine Sundays in a
Eainful spirit of captiousness and fits of anger to
arass the soul of the young man and point out
the error of his ways and let him understand that
he was born in tribulation and had inherited
iniquity and vicissitudes and visitations of wrath,
and to make him wish himself dead, with all the
language at her command. Brighton bore this
female evil in a commendable frame of meekness
and mild submission—that is, he only swore at
the lady at odd times when he might reason-
ably have sworn at her all along and have hit
her on the head with a mallet any time of
the day with due justification and_ reasonable
excuse—but about a month back his wife’s legally-
qualified mother came along unexpectedly from
Melbourne with a pile of belongings significant of
the ominous fact that she had arranged to stay,
and she took up a site in the best room_ of the
house,' and immediately assumed the premiership.
She is higher and wider than women generally
grow in these latitudes, and she has a quick eye
and a wonderful command of language, and a
feeble idea of her native viciousness and bewilder-
ing “cheek ” may be gathered from the knowledge
that she had left her daughter to the care of
strangers at an early age, and had only turned up
now, after the lapse of years, to be an eyesore on
the estate and a thorn in both sides of the
young man named Haynes. Hostilities opened
promptly between the new arrival and the
foster-mother-in-law, who was determined not
to relinquish the reins of government as long as
she could hit and kick and get up and yell terrible
sentences full of calumny, invective, and tangled
grammar. The result can be imagined by married
gentlemen, but some words of explanation and a
description of the scenery may be necessary to
give the unattached readers of The Bulletin an
idea of Mr. Haynes’ melancholy situation and
bitterness of spirit. When she saw that her rival
had taken a protracted tenure, the foster-mother-
in-law moved in with a dray-load of rags and also
settled on the scene, and she cleared her throat
and said she’d be mother-in-law to that family or
create a fearful upheaval unprecedented in
history for slaughter and rapine; whereupon
the other uttered a wild, weird cry, and arose
and pleaded her constitutional rights with
great agitation and a toothed hay-rake—
which opened the engagements. The rival
claimants have maintained a war-like attitude
ever since, and peace has fled from Croajingolong
(Vie.) and joined truth down a well, and Brighton
Haynes and his wife have often to go out and
roost with the fowls in order to give the com-
batants a fair field and no favour, and to avoid
the harrowing disputations and falling fragments.
At first the young husband used to throw himself
between the contending elements and riotous
factions, and make quotations from the prophets
and other reputed authorities on domestic com-
fort and brotherly love, but he got so broken up
in the process and so damaged in architecture and
character that he became discouraged and
crawled from under for good; and now he stands
afar off when his mothers-in-law are engaged in
controversy and feats of strength, and feebly calls
for the police, and the mounted rifles, and the
Federal fleet, and other assistance, from the top
of a tree. We have no vested interest in Mr.
Haynes, but common humanity prompts us to
solicit contributions in his aid, and field-pieces,
bombs, or catapults, left at this office, will be
promptly acknowledged and forwarded to the
seat of war without delay.
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
£800! £800! £800!
In Prizes in Australian Natives’ Association
NATIONAL PETE and ART UNION,
JANUARY 27, 1890.
Ist prize— Four-roomed Villa, valued .£4OO.
2nd Prize—Block of Land, valued £lOO.
3rd Prize—An Oil Painting (“News from a Distant Land”),
valued £7O ; and a number of other Prizes.
Tickets, Is. each, or 22 for £l. To be had from Local
Agents, or
THO 9. I»KX BERTHY. Sec.
119 Swanston Street, Melbourne.
THE GEORGE HOTEL
(opposite Railway Station, near Baths),
St. Kilda, Victoria.
First-class Family & Commercial Hotel.
J® - For particulars, apply to
F. WIMPOLE,
PROPRIETOR.
Palls Bridge Family Hotel,
Falls Bridge, Melbourne.
%
This magnificent Hotel, containing 50 Double
and Single Rooms, is splendidly furnished and
perfectly ventilated.
Hot and Cold Plunge and Shower Baths.
Electric Bells. Telephone 1217. Billiards, &o.
Terms Strictly Moderate.
J. H. DURRANI Manager
Late of the South Australian Club Hotel, Adelaide.
f
ƒ
EVERY
DESCRIPTION
or
HAIRIWORKIDONE
%
\
%
%
<o
X/
9>
<s
PRIVATE
ROOMS
FOR LADIES
22*24
ROYAL ARCADE'
MELBOURNE
* 1801 *
BARRY’S
Tricopheroas
THE°HAIR
f
An elegant dress
ing. ( exquisitely per
, fumed, removes all
impurities from the
scalp; prevents baldness and gray hair, and
causes the hair to grow Thick, Soft and
Beautiful. ' Infallible for curing eruptions
of the skin, diseases of the glands, muscles
and integuments, and relieving cuts, burns,
bruises, sprains, &c.
Barry’s Pearl Cream
Imparts to the darkest skin a clear, natural
white, tinged with the faintest rose-blush.'
It speedily removes wrinkles, freckles, sun
burn and tan, and mantles the faded cheek
with youthful bloom and beauty.
Barry’s Hair Dye.
Put up in two forms, with and without
a preparation Without the preparation',
gradually colors the hair any shade desired!
from a light brown to a black With the
preparation, instantly colors the hair a na-
tural jet black the moment it is applied,
Caution-None of these preparations gen-
uine without the trade mark of Barglai
& Co , New York, affixed to each bottle
A. BOWMAN’S
LONDON MADE
Porpoise Hide Hoots
Are Reduced from 20s. to 21s.
249 PITT ST., SYDNEY, Near Tattersall’s.
Porpoise Hide Wears Twice as Long
as any other Leather.
They are noted all over London,
Birmingham and Liverpool.
London. Fashions,
AND
Fresh Goods Every Fortnight.
Trade Supplied Wholesale at a\ Great Advantage .
The AUSTRALIAN MERCANTILE LOAN and
GAURANTEE COMPANY, Limited.
Head Office—
Sydney: Corner of Market & York Streets.
Melbourne Branch: 283 Collins-street East.
Brisbane Branch; Corner Edward and Elizabeth Streets.
Newcastle Branch: 37 Hunter Street.
The Company grant immediate advances upon Deeds of
Land, Bills of Lading, Merchandise, Storage and Bond
Certificates, and all classes of mercantile and other approved
securities, for fixed terms or repayable by instalments.
A. MILLER, Acting-Manager.
CiiSim’ Life Assurance Company,
LIMITED.
Capital ... ... A 1200,000.
Head Office:
21 Castlereagh St., Sydney,
With Branches and Agencies throughout the Colonies.
KTew Business:
1887 There were Issued 19,557 Policies.
1888 „ „ .. 34,084
1889 np to 88th October 48,833 »
These figures show the wonderful progress of the
Company and the high esteem placed upon its
liberal dealings by the public.
X
CLAIMS PAID
Immediately on Proof of Death.
JAMES P. GARY AN, \
WM. ALEX. SMITH, /
Managing Director.
Secretary.
WHY
YOU SHOULD USE
LARMER’S
CELEBRATED
HEALTH-GIVING
AND
INVIGORATING TONIC.
It is used and endorsed by all Physicians
I ecanse it is the best.
It is superior to all other Tonics.
For the Liver, Kidneys and Blood it has
no equal.
It is woulerful as a Flesh Producer.
It is the best remedy for Wasting Diseases,
Sick Headaches, Bilious Complaints, Fever,
and Ague, Neuralgia, &c.
Price, 2s 6d and ss; By post, Is extra.
PREPARED ONLY BY
CAINS & CO,, Chemists,
78 KING STREET.
For Sale bv all Chemists
M. W. & Co.
NOTICE.
NEIGHBOURS.
A NEW NOVEL,
XI By the Author of “Tiff,” “A Great Mis-
take,” “ Ruby North’s Lovers,” &c.
Is Continued in
LIAMILY HERALD PART LOR
J NOVEMBER,
Which contains also the continuation of
HE STORY OP AN ERROR.
T
A NEW NOVEL,
XX By the Author of “ His Wedded \V ife,” “ A
Eatal Dower,” “Ladybird’s Penitence,” &c.
Also complete Stories, Essays, to Cor-
respondents, Cookery, Miscellanea, Enigmas,
Charades, Riddles, &o.
TIAMILY HERALD PART for NOVEMBER-
I 1 The Australasian says; -
“ This favourite domestic magazine retains all
its old interest and variety. ”
The
LLVMILY HERALD may be had in Half-yearly
X. Volumes and in Monthly Parts of all Colonial
Booksellers and Newsagents; or the Monthly
Part direct from W. Stevens, 421 Strand, London,
England, for 14s. per annum, post free.
T7W
1 W
mjk
- i
\\\
HI -
burglary.
The British Australian and New Zealand
Fire, Marine, and Accident Insurance Co.,
Limited,
85 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY,
ISSUES POLICIES indemnifying Householders
against loss by BURGLARY.
Rates Low. Settlement Prompt.
All communications to be addressed to the
Managing Director.
AGENTS and CANVASSERS Wanted.
JNDISFEHS ABLE p.OR RADIES
AND ALL PERSONS
With a Delicate Skin!
If you wish to Protect yourself against CHAPPED
HANDS and CRACKED SKIN, and to keep YOUR
COMPLEXION in good condition during the whole
year use
■BSESSEE3SBMI
COCOA BUTTER SOAP.
(Savon au beam, da Cacas.)
This celebrated Soap consists chiefly of Cocoa Butter, (ex-
tracted in the manufacture of Chocolate) which is THE
MILDEST FAT KNOWN, and possesses a wonderfully
healing and softening influence upon the Skin. The
beneficent properties of this product make themselves
apparent by the delicious creamy lather it produces,
rendering even the coarsent SKIN AS SOFT AS
VELVET.
Cocoa Butter Soap is a real skin-beautifier, and a balm to
young and old alike.
MOUSON & CO., PERFUMERS & TOILET SOAP MANUFACTURERS,
FRANKFORT-ON-TIIE-MAVXE.
LONDON! 32 & 33 HAINSELL-ST., E.C. PARIS: 29 RUE RAUZIERILR
Full guarantee for perfect purity is offered by the
sole Manufacturers, Mouson & Co.
JULIUS GOLDSCHMIDT & CO.,
m CLARENOE-ST., SYDNEY,
SOLE AGENTS FOB AU STEAL ASIA.
BEES
T
O
BU
MAKERS
INDIARUBBER and CANVAS BELTING— UNBQUAUJtI
n idhty citbaat 'mri IVERY and SUCTION HOSE. VALVES, INSERTION, PACKING and SHEET RUBBER.
GARDENS STEAM DELl ™^ r^ i g , t 5 } U dJka B i U tv, Gbip and Tkue Running. EBONITE GOODS. GUTTA PERCHA and ELECTRICAL GOODS.
Arthur S. Searle, Ag-ent and Importer, *7B Clarence-street, Sydney.
SOLE AGENT IN NEW SOUTH WALES for the
INDIARTJBBER, GUTTA PERCHA and TELEGRAPH WORKS CO, (Limited), SILYERTOWN, LONDON,
THREE GOLD MEDAL AWARDS CENTENNIAL EXHIBITION, MELBOURNE. ISSB-BU.


—THE—
Fresh Food & |ce Co.,
LIMITED,
HARBOUR STREET,
SYDNEY,
Are evidently determined to go ahead. They are
now supplying Customers who take a Quart os’
Milk and Over per Day ab
THREEPENCE PER QUART!
This appears very wonderful , but it is
quite true.
Weekly Accounts.
WOOL. WOOL.
THE NEW ZEALAND
Loan & Mercantile Agency
COMPANY. LIMITED.
BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Capital, £4,500,000 ... Reserve, £270,000
Wool Season* 1888-89.
Regular Sales of Wool Held Throughout the
Season.
r PHE greatest care bestowed on the Valuation and the
x Displaying and Protecting all Wools entrusted to
the Company for sale, whether from large or small clips.
Growers Advised and Consulted with before Sales
of their Clips are made.
Libbral Cash Advances, where desired, on Wool lieu
of Ensuing Clip, and on Wool and other Produce, whether
for sale in Sydney or shipment to London.
Auction Sales op Sheep Skins, Marsupial
Skins, Hides, Tallow, &0., Held Regularly.
0?” Every Information Supplied on Application.
G. S. CAMPBELL, Manager.
SYDNEY WOOL Is GRAIN WAREHOUSES
Bridge and Loftus Streets
Business Announcements.
—FALLON’S—
CELEBRATED
ALBURY WINES.
Recommended by the Medical Faculty.
E DWIN G. GOEE.TZ,
Stock and Share Broker,
-A-a-inutsTT,
BRISBANE.
Member of the Brisbane Stock Exchange.
hotel
TOOWOOMBA, QUEENSLAND,
Acknowledged the Best Hotel on the Darling
Downs. First-class Accommodation.
Private Suites First Class Sample Rooms.
Conveyance Meets Every Train.
JOHN LONG - - Late of New Zealand.
ft \ 1 / 7 / ,
v 'PHOTOGIIAPHIC,
- J\VFews\XPoßfp^n
it-j: SSJSUWD3 'jcM
ssislands
Royal hotel.
Esplanade,
ST. HILDA. VICTORIA,
Facing Beach, close to Pier and Baths. Ten
minntes from Station.
H. MOONEY ... - Proprietor.
LIVERY LETTING STABLES ATTACHED.
Telephone 682.
First-class Accommodation for Visitors
SMOKE NOTHING BUT
PIPES.
ƒ
PIPES.
THE BEST IN THE WOULD.
Wholesale Agents :
JULIUS GOLOSGMDT & CO-
-331 Clarence Street.
First Prize—MELBOURNE EXHIBITION.
J + LUDOWICI & SONS,
Manufacturers and Importers of
Superior Oak-Taimed Leather Belting,
And every description of
Leather goods for Machine and Engineering Purposes-
Hydraulic
Leathers.
u stiiv}o
Tangye Pump
Leathers.
All goods bearing the above Trade Mark are warranted to
give satisfaction, or may be returned at our expense.
Office and Factory: 162 Clarence-St., Sydney,
Between King and Market Streets.
We undertake the i
bo ises—filing every
TO ADVERTISERS
We undertake the advertising- of large business
bo s—filing every paper advertised in, checking
appearances, and watching tire interests of our
clients. We can save you money, time and
anxiety. Write for our pamphlet “ How to
Advertise, and Why.” P. T. WIMBLE & CO.,
Newspaper Advertising Bureau, Basement A.J.S.
Bank, 369,371 & 373 George-st., Sydney. Estimates
given for any number of papers by return mail.
gYDNEY TAKES THE LEAD.
The Sydney Ladies’ and Gentlemen’s
Hairdresssing Palace
AND
TOILETTE REQUISITES,
82 KUKTG STREET.
(Directly opposite the Arcade),
NOW OPEN.
The Public Verdict—A long-felt want filled,
an Establishment that Sydney can be proud of.
No Expense has been spared in fitting up this
Establishment for the convenience and comfort of
its patrons.
A large staff of the very best Gentlemen Work-
men are employed in the Ladies’ and Gentlemen’s
Hairdressing Rooms, and all work is guaranteed.
Gsntlsmsn’s Mercery 1 Perfumery*
Ladies’and Gentlemen’s Toilet Requisites.
Cigars, Cigarettes, Tobacco, &o-,
Sydney and Melbourne Daily and Weekly Papers
All Ladies and Gentlemen are invited to visit
and inspect this establishment, and be convinced
that it is not equalled in the Southern Hemisphere.
HQU lIS :
From 8.80 'a. in. to 7.)mu. SATURDAYS) 0 p.m.
A SELECT STOCK OF
Sold at the Loivest Cash Prices.
LAUNDRY AGENCY, &c., &c.
kept on File.
KMtaal
A Lovely Skin
ITothing Is known to science at all comparable
|0 the Cuticura U.. juries in their marvellous
properties of cleansing, purifying and beautifying
the skin, and In curing torturing, disfiguring, itch-
ing, scaly and pimply diseases of the skin, scalp
and biood, with loss of hair from infancy to age.
Cuticura, the great Skin Cure, and Cuticura
Soap, an exquisite Skin Boautifier, prepared from
it, externally, and Cuticura Resolvent, the new
Blood Purifier, internally, are a positive cure for
every form of skin and blood disease, from pimples
to scrofula.
I have had a most wonderful cure of salt rheum.
For five years I have suffered with this disease. I
had it on my face, arms and hands. I was unable
to do anything whatever with my hands for over
two years. I tried hundreds of remedies, and not
one had the least effect. The doctor said my case
was incurable. I saw your advertisement, and
concluded to try the Cuticura Remedies; and
incredible as it may seem, that after using one
box of Cuticura, and two cakes of Cuticura
Soap, and two bottles of Cuticura Resolvent, I
find lam entirely cured. Those who think this
letter exaggerated may come and see me and find
out for themselves. GRACE P. HARKHAM,
North St. Charles Street, Belle River, Ont.
Cuticura Remedies are absolutely pure and the
only infallible blood purifiers and skin beautifiers.
f
TED with the loveliest delicacy is the skin
bathed with Cuticuba Medicated Soap.
I have been afflicted since last March with a skin
disease the doctors called eczema. My face was
covered with scabs and sores, and the itching and
burning were almost unbearable. Seeing your
Cuticura Remedies bo highly recommended, con-
cluded to give them a trial, using the CdticurA
and Cuticura Soap externally, and Resolvent
internally, for four months. I call myself cured,
in gratitude for which I make this public statement.
CLARA A. FREDERICK, Broad Brook, Conn.
I have Buffered from Salt Rheum for over eight
years, at times so bad that I could not attend to
my business fpr weeks at a time. Three boxes of
CutxcubJl and four bottles Resolvent have en-
tirely cured me of this dreadful disease.
JOHN THIEL,
1875 Second Avenue, New York City.
The box of Cuticura that you sent me some
months ago did me so much good that I will send
for another box, believing that it will cure me of a
skin disease with which I have been troubled for
eighteen years.
FANNIE L JOHNSON, Amsterdam, Ya.
Bold everywhere. Price: Cuticura, 50c. ; Soap,
250.; Resolvent, $l. Prepared by the Potter
Drug and Chemical Co., Boston, Mass.
JSST Send for “ How to Cure Skin Diseases,” 64
pages, 60 illustrations, and 100 testimonials.
pirn
IPLES, blackheads, chapped and oily skin
I prevented by Cuticxjea Medicated Soap.
Address: R TOWNS & CO., SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Business Announcements.
Federated Squatters
-AND—
Farmers’ Co-Operative Association of Australasia, Limited,
CUK-CTJL.A.IR, Q,TJ^--Z- 7 STDITEY.
WOOL and PEODUOE BEOKEES, STOCK and STATION AGENTS*
Advances Made and Deposits Received at Current Rates. Correspondence Invited,
-rtC'irninti
pi
m
firm
w
4 an
m
IllilU*
m.
HIP
m
HKft
£<i
‘iiiiiniii
III!™
j|H!
•k\
m
■» 7‘
!
'lh
mm
Guinness’ Extra Stout,
FIRST QUALITY.
Bass’ Bale Ale,
FIRST QUALITY.
Sols Purveyors to the
Colonial & Indian Exhibition, London*
(By Special Appointment.)
Wholesale Agents :
Balchin, Johnston & Co., Sydney.
M. B. FOSTER & SONS, LONDON.
IBTJa-Hi_E 37 IB ALE JLIsTX)
-)(-
STOUT.
PUBLIC NOTICE.
It having come to our knowledge that ALE and STOUT of very inferior quality, in bottles with
skillfully forged labels have lately been palmed off on the public ‘ : '
We desire to warn pur friends of the fact, and t ■ state that all corks as well as capsules of the
bottles shipped by Messrs. M. B. POSTER & SONS to this colony bear their name and address*
Any information respecting Bottled Beer purporting to be “Poster’s Bogle Brand” offered
for sale without these corks and capsules will be esteemed by the undersigned, who have instruo
tions to bring to justice the perpetrators of the frauds.
A Liberal Reward will be given for information leading to conviction of the offenders.
)(
BA-LCHIINT, & GO.,
Agents for Messrs. M. B. Poster & Sons.
Sydney,
for Kupper’s Eltoe rfeld Lager BeeV
(Specially Brewed for Australia). Absolutely Free from Sediment.
THOMAS MCRE ER Y=
MEDICAL HERBALIST,
S 3 Oxford Street, i doors above Riley Street.
Private Diseases of Both Sexes a Speciality.
Consultations Gratis. Charges very Moderate.
A Trial Solicited.
A SPEEDY CURE GUARANTEED.
RICHMOHD FAMILY HOTEL,
PORTLAND, VICTORIA.
John Shelton - Pronator.
Woman Items.
(ALL STOLEN.)
Mrs. Newt wit : “I want to see some gentle-
men’s shirts. I don’t remember the size ; but Mr.
Newtwit is about thirty-four bust-measure.”
Mrs. Tathill : “ I saw your wife out driving
with another man this afternoon.” Mr. Tubbs
{excitedly) : “ You did ! Did they have my
horse ?”
“Jones,” said Smith, as he watched a couple
strolling near, “that is a first-love affair.” “How
do you know ?” “ 1 just heard her make him pro-
mise not to smoke or drink.”
Impecunious suitor : “Will you have
me ? ” Elderly spinster (with cash): “ What
could I do with you ? ” Impecunious suitor :
“ You might do Europe with me.”
Wife (at front door) : “ Who’s there?” Voice :
“lam—John —your husband.” Wife I don’t
believe you. It don’t sound like John’s voice.
Blow your breath through the key-hole.”
Charming widow: “And what are you
doing nowadays ? ” He: “Oh, amusing myself;
looking out for number one. And you ? ”
Charming widow : “ Looking out for number
two.”
“It’s always a relief to me when it comes
time to pay off Bridget,” said Mrs. Howeskeep.
“Why ?” inquired her husband. “Because it is
the only time when I feel positive she doesn’t
employ me. ”
“What’s the matter, Charlie? You look
blue.” “I am blue. I went to the mountains
last month, and I never saw such a lot of pretty
girls in my life, and as there was only one other
man there I expected to have a good time, but the
other fellow was a Mormon and was engaged to
’em all.”
A woman recently started business in
America as a professional spanker of bad children.
On being interviewed by a reporter she was found
sitting “ with her large and accomplished hands
folded in her lap, and the light of gentle melan-
choly beaming from her eyes.” She sorrowfully
admitted that her mission was a failure. People
loved to do their own spanking.
One of Lord Hopetoun’s aides has to wear
a three-feet high bearskin hat on state occasions.
Wearing that tile is his principal job.
The poet sings—“ All a woman asks is to
be loved.” True, but then you don’t love her
unless you give way to her in everything.
Australian newspapers have the copyright
of the word “denounce.” A man, according to
the papers, never “objects to,” “condemns” or
“attacks.” He always “denounces.”
“I can’t understand all this fuss about
using electricity for execution,” remarked Judge
Lynch, of Kansas, reflectively; “out in our section
we have used the telegraph-pole for years.”—Ex.
One member of the Brunswick (Vic.)
Council called another a “man” at a recent
sitting, and the imputation was resented with
violence. It is a pleasure to know that the coun-
cillor is not so far degraded that he will not pro-
tect the higher animal from insult.
Land at Perth, W.A., the best investment
Plans from Intercolonial Investment Co., Ltd.,
96 Bat hurst-street, Sydney.
Everybody should use Pemell’s latest best Snow-white
Patent Roller Flour. It is the greatest success of the age.


*Y CATERING i * ju
(Late Gunsler’s Cafe)
175 Pitt Street, Sydney,
WISH their former Patrons and the Public Generally to know that their Saloons have been Entirely
their new cusine a trial.
JAMES 0- MAEQUAND, Manager-
"Will Toe Shortly,
“ A GOLDEN SHANTY
■ ■
Australian Tales and Sketches in Prose
Tty *Bulletin. ’ Writers.”
A Selection from the brightest of the original literary matter which has made The Bulletin world-famous. Price, Is. ;if posted, sd. extra.
Public Companies.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA.
THE COMING COLONY!
Everyone should Invest a Few Pounds in Land
in
PBR.TSI,
The CAPITAL CITY OF WESTERN AUSTRALIA.
Compared with other Australian Cities the Price
is Very Low.
The Coal, Gold and Tin Mines are attracting
much enterprise and capital to the Colony.
CITY BUILDING ALLOTMENTS,
From £1 per Foot.
BUILDING SITES adjoining the CITY
From £lO Each.
Small Deposit. Easy Terms. Discount for Cash.
Each Lot guaranteed good Building Land.
Land in Perth will increase greatly in value during
the next few years.
INQUIRY COSTS NOTHING.
Pamphlets, Marked Plans, and full information
posted to any address on application to
Ik intercolonial Investment Co., Limits!
96 Bathurst Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
W. J. DOUGLAS, Manager.
—THE—
FEDERAL REVERSIONARY INVESTMENT
AND
FINANCIAL COMPANY, LIMITED.
(Incorporated Under Companies’ Act, 187 it
CAPITAL .. .. £200,000.
Sydney Office: .... 301 PITT STREET
AGENCIES in London and throughout Australia.
Immediate advances granted. Bills discounted daily.
Communications from the country promptly attended to.
The following are the rates of interest allowed on Fixed
Deposits:—3 years, 10 per cent. ; 12 months, 9 per cent. ;
6 months, 8 per cent. ; 3 months, 7 per cent. By order
of the Board of Directors.
A. W. Miller, Manager
=CLYDE=
lULIIH, CRUSHING and CHLORINATION
WORKS,
CLYDE, near GRANVILLE,
Mew South Wales,
Lead and Silver Ores,
AUO,
G-old Oouoentratea,
Purchased in any quantity.
Miners and other* are invited to send Small or
Large Parcels of Ore to the above Works, which,
on being assayed, Cash Returns will be at once
remitted.
Tariff of Charges forwarded on application to
the Secretary at the Works, Clyde.
The British and New South Wales Investment
and Financial €o.. Limited.
Incorporated under the Companies’ Act, 1874.
Capital, £250,000.
SnMST Office : 246 PITT STREET.
"DILLS DISCOUNTED and Immediate Advances granted
JD Daily Country communications promptly attended
to. The following Kates of Interest are allowed for Fixed
Deposits
5 Years 10 per
1* Months » per cent.
6 Months 8 per cent,
8 Months .... •••• 7 per cent.
With a Guaranteed Bonne on Renewals of Twelve Months
and over.
By order of the Board.
W. M'DONALD, Manager.
Business Announcements.
—THE—
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL
Insurance Society.
Established ... ... 1872.
Bonuses
20 per cent. Paid Amr Uly
since 1873.
Head Office
—THE
Oldest Mutual Fire Office
in Australia.
Claims promptly and liberally
settled. Fifteen days’ grace
allowed for Renewal of Policies.
Lowest Current Rates charged.
Hon. George Thornton, M.L.C.,
Chairman.
Head Office;
Corner Pitt & King Streets,
SYDNEY.
Walter Church ... Manager.
□
05
h:0
CC
uJ
CO
O
&
a
SB
:
HE
t
m
ROBERTS & 0 0.,
—W HOLESALE-
Ironmongers* lron and Machinery Merchants^
HA y AND ENGINE STREETS SYDNEY,
Head Office: 85 Gracechurcli Street, lion don, 8.0.
IMPORTERS OF— '
Railway & Bridge Contractors’
Plumbers'
Squatters'
Requirements
IN
Great Variety.
' IMPORTERS OF
Engineers’ and Blacksmiths'
Couckbuilders'
Mining
AGENTS FOB:
Korttne’s Gas Engines—The sht and cheapest yet made. Automatic self-governing, thus of gas.
B?Sddfok’s WateS Gas Meters and Gas Lamps. Beading Iron Works Universal (Split) Pulley Wheels.
Howe'S Platform and Counter Weighing Machines and Weighbridges.
THK
“PLUM”
RAZOR.
ƒ
THE
PLUM”
RAZOR.
-'ITrrE recommend gentlemen who shave themselves to try the PLUM RAZOR. It is purely
W Hollow Ground and NEVER requires Grinding and we guarantee each Razor for two
vears Set ready for use. Price, single Razor, 10s. 6d. ;or a pair of Razors, Black Handles, in
Strong Leather Case, £1 Is. In Ivory, single Razor, 15s. Pair in case, 30s. Send P. 0.0. Every
Razor sent by Registered Post.
CRAIG & AITKEIM,
“POTOSI" HAIRDRESSING SALOON,
680 O-lEO IRQ-IB STREET SYDNEY.
THOMAS ROSS,
TOBACCO 4. CIGAR IMPORTER,
81 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY,
(Corner of J'itt Street.)
A Urge stock of Genuine IlitTannah Cigars, 0 1 tbs
choicest Brands to select from.
Sols Inporter of the Celebrated “ Flor <lo Bonlto **
Brand of Cigars and “ Empire Cigarettes.”
daw. sxtllivaw
(Late of Brisbane Caf6)>
Qm bought MATTERSON’S HOTEL, opposite
Lassetfcer s, George-street.
Extensive alterations and improvements just
completed. Recollect DAN’S OLD REPUTA-
TION for the best brands in the market.
DAN. SULLIVAN
Has a nice oold collation with salad, between one
and two o’clock everyday.
Medical.
PUL VERM A CHER'S WORLD-
FAMED GALVANIC BELTS
FOR THE CURE OF
Nervous Exhaustion and Debility, Sciatica,
Lumbago, Rheumatism, See.,
HAVE received Testimonials from Three
Physicians to Her Majesty the and
the Leading Physicians of many London Hospi-
tals, including over Forty Members of the Royal
College of Physicians of London.
For full Price-list and particulars, see new pam-
phlet “Galvanism : Nature’s Chief Restorer of
Impaired Vital Energy.” Pamphlets Free.
Sole Agents for N.S.W.,
FROST <sc SHIPHAM
ELECTRICIANS,
474 & 587 George Street, Sydney.
Sole Agents for Victoria:
ALLISON BROS., 477 Collins-stbebt Wist, Melbourne
Free BY POST for six penny Stamps, s
Medical Treatise by that eminent French
Hospital Physician and Parisian Specialist, Dr.
RABONSKI, showing sufferers how they may
cure themselves of Nervous Debility, Lost Vitality,
&c., &c., without consulting a medical man.
Address: “Parisian,” P.O. Box 766, Sydney.
A BLESSING IN EVERY FAMILY.
HOLLOWAY’S PILLS AND OINTMENT.
There is not a country in the civilised world where
the healing virtues of thes n> grand medicines have not been
recognised by thousands of sufferers. In all the ordinary
ailments of humanity their beneficent action is at once
recognised. Fullest directions are supplied for their use
in every disease. IF YOU SUFFER, TRY THEM. Manu-
factured only at 76 New Oxford-st., London. |3 Pur-
chasers should look to the Label on the Boxes and Pots.
If the address is not 523 Oxford-street, London, they are
spurious.
Business Announcements.
—AUSTRALIAN—
gcIIer glour and grain §tore6,
GRANVILLE, N.S.W.
Stdnkt Ornc*: - 173 CLARENCE STREET
(near King Street).
Brunton’s Patent Roller Flour
AWABDKD —
The Eigbest Order of Merit at every Competition,
AND
| “Special Recommendation” of the Jurors of tha
Melbourne International Centennial Exhibition,
1888-89.
UMBRCLLAS
RS-COVtREO.
STUDY ECONOMY
and
Have your Umbrella Frame*
Re-Covered, and your
Parasols Re-Lined and mad*
Equal to New, at
J. SULLIVAN'S
541 George Street,
Brickfikld Hill, Sydnht,
between
Liverpool dk Bathurst Sts.,
Parasols made to match Co*
tumes. Repairs neatly dons.
Sydney Canister Works,
COLLINS STREET, SURRY HILLS,
OFF CROWN STREET.
Manufacturers of allk nds of Tins for Confectioners.
Tea Merchants, Biscuit Makers, &c., also all kinds
of Tins, round and square, for Pepper, Spice and
Baking Powder, made by improved machinery.
A. Trial Solicited.
MUSICAL.
"DATENT SCALE INDICATOR for Pupils Learning the
-T piano. Price, 3s. 6d. And IMPROVED VAMPINO
SYSTEM, without a knowledge of Music, ss. 6d., posted
to the country from Ingham’s. Sydney Arcade.
Country Agents wanted—Stationers.
empire buildings,
Collins Street West, MELBOURNE
(Near Scott’s Hotk-).
WE beg to inform our Friends and th«
Public that we have Opened these
Grand Premises as an
OYSTER SALOON
AND
Continental Dining Rooms.
PRIVATE DIMERS provided on Shortest Notice
~ Modkiutk CiiAßom
BIKTI & K A.T2S,
PROPRIETORS.


SHEVILL & CO.,
Corner Queen Street and Flinders Lan®,
MELBOURNE.
MERCANTILE AUCTIONEERS,
House, Land, and Estate Agents,
ill
m
m
$
jj
Advances made against shipments of Merchandise
and Colonial Produce.
Daily Sales held at their Commodious
New Booms.
OUTDOOR
Furniture & Land Sales Conducted.
Branch
Offices
{32 Chapel St., Prahran.
2 Albert St., Windsor. /
Branch
Offices
P. R, LARKIN
IMPORTER OF
WIH E S, x SPIRITS, x BEE E S, x ETC.,
George and Gipps Streets, Sydney.
SPECIALITIES:
Joh* Jammson'i Dublin Whisky (5 to 10 years old) ; W. Jameson’s, Dunville’s Rob’s and Wise’s (old Cork) WhllUMk
Hennbssy’s, Martell’s and Sazeeac’s Brandies (5, 10, 15 and 21 years old).
Tht Choicest and Oldest SCOTCH WHISKIES (in wood), Imported and Bottled by P.R.L.
%3ff~ The Best Port and Sherry Wines and Champagnes. All Brands of Colonial Wines. The leading brand*
of Bottled Alb and Stout, arriving by monthly steamers.
Prince of Wales Hotel, 778 & 780 George Street.
anti Single Bottle "Departments, EB3 anil sy3npy.
; SEND FOR A PRICE LIST.
FIRST-CLASS LADIES’ REFRESHMENT ROOM & LAVATORY,
GIPPS TBJEET (Opposite A. Hordern & Sons.)
) x (
Produce Stores, Gipps St., and Darlinghurst Road.
HEAD OFFICE: GIPPS STREET (Kext Prince of Wales Hotel).
f
ƒ
V'.
o
W
FURNITURE
WAREHOUSES,
York Street, Wynyard Square, Sydney,
Now supply the General Public as well as the Trade.
10,000 Bedsteads,
From. lOa. 6d. -to £35.
• N'S
O*
%M\
v*gi
inu.-r.Td
f4H<
xm
i
fei>
<A’
I; ::i^;-uatlllp^
i-io .■■ a.erasi. jglAt l - ■a,;-vf*l'cr; o ' * *
s~-«ag me*s*xm&msaßa*ma!l ®Thi. ."Wi.,
Wfj
; p o4ur
EF^Fw
•I It i'i l •I‘l * I i^Sf'”;?-''.
•‘fer"
ipP s «tEiiiJ
: “ili
C«0/-k
oiy
ISS,
V:Ll“|‘l'•.>:.{• I lt>*rU
C2a^ffi&B@is , -v<.
>■ ■ gg
u
Ml
bailee & CO.,
General Auctioneers and Estate Agents,
325 Collins Street, Melbourne, and 14 Chapel
Street, South Tarra.
Free Prescriptions
Are to be found in the “Light and Life/
for the Speedy Cure of Nervous Debility and
Kindred Diseases, ko. A copy of this book will
be sent Dree, sealed, for Six Penny Stamps.
Ad> sTWARD Si CO., SYDNEY PHARMACY,
76 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
P
COCOA
MASON BROTHERS,
&&1
LIMITED.
263 to 269 KENT STEEET,
SYDNEY,
Have always in Stock for Sale to the
Trade and Wholesale Buyers Only,
Ironmongery, and
GENERAL HARDWARE
Glass* China and
EARTHENWAR-E.
if INKS, BEERS Jc SPIRITS,
and general
BULK MERCHANDISE.
Agents for
,: <) H N WALKER and SONS
Old Highland Whisky.
J. SORIN' and CO.’S
Cognac.
J. T. O A YEN’S,
Schnapps and -Genova.
A, MELVIN and SON S’
Edinburgh Pale Ale.
SMITH, U.S.A.,
:M EDICAL EXPERT
In PRIVATE COMPLAINTS of BOTH SEXES.
A Prompt and Safe Cure Guaranteed.
CONSULTING. ROOMS:
Nos. 7 & 8 First Floor, 182 GEORGE STREET
SYDNEY.
Hours : ... From 11 a.m. till 4 p.m.
Imperial Hotel
TOWNSVILLE.
THOMAS WALLACE,
Proprietor.
Com
X
PL
ROWLANDS’
KALYDOR.
An emollient milk for beautifying the complexion, and
warranted free from lead or grease. It removes I reckles,
Tan, Sunburn, Redness and Roughness of the Skin: is
most co ling and refreshing to the face in hot weather,
and produces soft, fair and delicate skin. No lady should
be without it.
ROWLANDS’
MACASSAR OIL
Prevents hair falling off or turning grey, and is also sold
in a Golden Co’our.
ROWLANDS’ ~
ODONTO
Whitens the teeth, prevents decay, and sweetens the
breath.
ROWLANDS’ EUKONIA, » Toilet Powder in Three
Tints— White, Rose, and Cream. Ask Chfemi ti and Perfumers for ROWLANDS’ Articles,
of 20, Hatton Garden, London, England.
TANGrYXaS, LIMITED,
Hay St., Hay market, Sydney,
ENGINES,
2 to 50 H.P.
BOILERS,
1 to 35 H.P.
STEAM PUMPS
For all purposes.
offrat row.
2" to 40" discharge.
HAND PUMPS.
Saw Benches.
I^atliea.
UPjB MASH MEL
&0.
"A;;
-
WINDING ENGINES,
Hauling Engines.
Battery Engines.
Saw-mill Engines.
ELGHL ENGINES.
ENGINES
FOR
Electric Lighting.
Vertical Boilers.
Multitubnlar Boilers,
(OEMsII BOILERS.
w a i thoso reauirintr Machinery of any kind for any purpose, large or small, to write for particulars and prices. From the extent of our stock we are generally able to give immediate delivery
We invite al tlioso requiring isitori f a whether Imjm or ■ t, are always welcome to inspect the magai Scent display m our new and extensive Showrooms,
12 9, 131,
13i
&
135
HAY STREET,
AYMAHKBT, BYDKTEY.


Medical.
NERVOUS MEN.
s
EUREKA
m
ELECTRIC belt
r
Nin
S'
\
A NEVER FAILING CURE FOR ALL.
DISEASES OF THE NERVOUS SYSTEM.
Complete with Suspensory Appliances from £l. 0. 0 and
»^ d n 8 - Tine famou. Electric Magnetic Belt will cure
jEnOUSiDhBILU E n 0US i DhBILUY ’ Seminal Debility, Impotence,
and all weakness caused by indiscretion. Pains in the
Back, Lumbago, Giddiness, Rheumatism, Kidney and
Bladder complaints, and m fact any disease of the Nervous
System. The currents are steady and constantly felt bv
the wearer. It has great improvements over all other
belts, we are willing to furnish those belts on SO dava
trial, and accept payment after they have proved them-
We re . Present t} >em to be. Those belts are
made for the specific purpose of producing a continuous,
mild, soothing current of electricity through all the weak-
ened parts, restoring them to health and vigorous strength
even the worst case permanently cured in three months!
It la more convenient to wear than any other Belt!
A Book illustrated, containing full information and testi-
monials from prominent people throughout Australia,
and informing persons how they may obtain these belts
without-paying for them until they have proved them com-
petent to cure any disease of the Nervous System, will be
forwarded to any address on receipt of a 2d stamper
AddressVOLTAIC BELT COMPANY
Box 916, O. P. 0., Sydnkt.
Dr. J ames D. Llewellyn,
L.R.C.P., M.E.C.Ss, L.S.A., LOND,,
Registered by the Medical Boards of Victoria, New South
Wales and England,
SPECIALIST
—in—
Chronic, Nervous and Genito-Urinary Diseases
may be consulted daily at
325 rL, LOI 2 SDALE: STREET—
<between Swanston & Elizabeth Sts.),
melbourn e.
Confidence Absolute. Curable Cases Guaranteed,
Personal Consultations are free ; but b\
a Fee of £1 is charged, which is inclusive
uLBi ed l } atients livin & at a distance anc
unable to attend personally can be treated by post,
and have their remedies forwarded per mail oi
express to any part of Australia, carefully packed
and concealed from observation.
A Practical Hanna! on Special Diseases,
expressly written for the guidance of sufferers from
Nervous Debility” and Private Diseases-price,
rf’ p Paid.) Copies may be obtained from
4’/i!t Sh f’ 1 T> e otto Publishing C 0.,” N0..4
A Beckett-street, Melbourne, and all Booksellers
A Wonderful Discovery,
Rose’s Celebrated Eye Lotion.
aran teed to cure SWELLING
DIMNESS OP SmHT f T ’ EYES and LIDS,
i j SfGHT, &o. It will be found verv bene-
mrk a^^° 0 lng l° fchose who have weak e y es , o/whose
work compels them to strain their eyes. Hiehlv
by the leading Oculists.
C?i 1111 DTI T The Public are requested to notice the
Wa ll LlUIi . words, HSIT” Rose's Celebrated Eye
MarkT«R Da*rk *1
Ground, is on the label affixed to each box containing fh
Lotion, without which it is a forgery. 6
ASK FOR
Rose’s Celebrated Eye Lotion
Not for ROSE EYE LOTION,
you will get a Lotion composed of Rose Water pahne,
on you for the genuine article, thus misleading th
purchaser for the sake of the vendor’s extra profit
Manufactured only by the Proprietor,
KC. Jk.. ROSE
Dispensing and Manufacturing Chemist
531 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Wholesale by the Proprietor and all Wholesale Houses.
jEstablished 1858. By Post 3s. 6cs a
iW~ Manufacturer of Dr. SOUTHAN’S GOUT an
RHEUMATIC PILLS.
Jf EE v O U S DEBILITY.
Consult FREE, PERSONALLY, or BY POST HERR RASS-
tbe celebrated DANISH HERBALIST and
EXPERT SPECIALIST. A medical book sent free on
receipt ofa4d., stamped self-addressed envelope, contain
mg valuable hints. Try Herr Rass-Mussen’s PlUa, whioh
are a guaranteed cure. Price, £1 2s. 6d. per course. Sent
unobserved. Address—
Herr Sass-Mussen, “Roselund Villa,”
Opposite Rifle Butts,
MOORE PARK ROAD, SYDNEY.
BROU’S INJECTION.
Hygienic, Infallible & Preservative,
Cures promptly, without additional means, all
recent t r chronic discharges of the urinary organs.
Sold in Paris by
JT, 33 3Ft -E3,
{Successor to Brou) Pharmacist, 102 rue Riohaliaa,
Agent in Sydney:
E. DOUBLET, 165 CLARENCE STREET.
P. C, MICHOLLS & Co.
WHOLESALE
Confectioners & Pastrycooks*
City Buildings:
"730 Gleorge Street, *73©
HATMAHKET
Steam Works :
9IL 619, 621, 539, 541 HARD)?
Wedding Oahes, too..
Medical.
A WONDERFUL MEDICINE.
Beecham’s Pills
PATENT
PILLS.
Are universally admitted
to be worth a Guinea
a Box for bilious
and nervous disorders,
such as wind and pain in
the stomach, sick head-
ache, giddiness, fulness
and swelling after meals,
dizziness, and drowsiness,
cold chills, flushings of
heat, lose of appetite,
shortness of breath, cos-
tiveness, scurvy, blotches
on the skin, disturbed
sleep, frightful dreams,
and all nervous and trem-
bling sensations, &c. The
first dose will give relief
in twenty minutes. Every
_ a» , 111 ■ viiuj uiruuuvo* ia V Oiy
sufferer ls earnestly invited to try one box of these
-rilis, and they will be acknowledged to be
Worth a Guinea a Box.
For females of all ages these Pills are invaluable,
f®. a * ew dosee of them carry off all humors, and
bring about all that is required. No female should
oe without them. There la no medicine to be found
equal to BEECHAM’S PILLS for removing any
obstruction or irregularity of the system. If taken ac-
cording to the directions given with each box they will
v, 00 ?.i rea^0r ? e!na * es °f all ages to sound and robust
health. This has been proved by thousands who have
tried them, and found the benefits which are ensured by
their use.
For * weak stomach, impaired digestion and all disorders
of the liver, they act like “ MAGIC,” and a few doses will
be found to work wonders upon the most important
organs in the human machine. They strengthen the
whole muscular system, restore the long-lost complexion,
bring back the keen edge of appetite, and arouse into ac-
tion with the ROSEBUD of health the whole physical
energy of the human frame. These are “FACTS” testified
continually by members of all classes of society ; and
one of the best guarantees to the nervous and debilitated
is, Beecham’s Pills have the largest sale of any patent
medicine in the world.
Beecham’s Magic Cough Pills.
As a remedy for Coughs in general, Asthma, Bronchial
Affections, Hoarseness, Shortness of Breath, Tightness
and Oppression of the Chest, Wheezing, &c., these Pills
stand unrivalled. They are the best ever offered to the
public and « ill speedily remove that sense of oppression
and difficulty of breathing which nightly deprive the
patient of rest. Let any person give Beecham’s Cough
Pills a trial and the most violent Cough will in a
short time be removed.
Prepared only and sold wholesale and retail by the pro-
prietor, Thomas Beecham, Chemist, St. Helens, Lancashire,
England, in boxes at Is. IJd. and 2s. 9d. each.—Sold by
all Druggists and Patent Medicine Dealers everywhere.
N.B.—Full directions are given with each box.
CONSULT
n
OORE & HOGG
B
THE EMINENT
SPECIALISTS,
On all Diseases OTthe Qenlto-Urlnary Organs
Nervous Diseases, and Private Complaints,
I, OORBETTS BUILDINGS, comer cf Gtorp*
and Elisabeth Street*, Brie bane,
OOI.SULTATIONS FREE, PERSONALLY OR BY LETTER.
Box 88 G.P.0.) Book tent on receipt of id. stamp.
Prof. R. T. SELB7
Is considered to be the most Successful Practi-
tioner in the Australian colonies. All sufferers
should road the Doctor’s most unique work on
Nsbvoos, Pbivate and other Diseases. The
Advice on Mabkiaqb is worth its weight in gold.
Send your full address, and we will send (post
free) One Copy. Write to Prof. R. T. SELBY,
Cleveland Street, Surry Hill, SYDNEY.
Hotels.
r e_±
H 9
00*
Still'ilTn
ill
BOWDSHXT’S HOTEL,
Elizabeth Strkbt (Near Haims St.), St beet.
JOHN C. BOUDEN .. .. Proprietor
WJESST33R3XT HOTEL,
Warrnambool, Victoria.
THIS old-established and well-known Family
and Commercial Hotel combines all the
requirements of a First-Class Hotel with home
comforts,
It is in full view of the sea and within a short
distance of the picturesque scenery of the Hopkin’s
River, which afford* the finest Rod and Fly Fishing
in the colony, 6
Arrangements made for the Hire of Rowing and
Fishing Boats and Fishing Tackle. Bait, etc.
supplied. iHT Good Shooting in the immediate
neighbourhood.
It is also within Two Minutes’ walk of the Hot
nd Cold Sea Water Baths, which are unaur-
assed in the colonies.
Uvery aud Letting Stables.
.king Office for Cobb & Gods Coaches. Tho*.
Cook & Sons’ Hotel Coupons taken.
JEORSE W. CLARE
Proprietor.
Business Announcements
IHE BANK or NEW ZEALAND
Paid-up Capital £1,125,000
The Bank has Agents in all the principal citie
throughout the United States of America an
Canada, and can offer special facilities for dealin
iu Bullion, Bills of Exchange, Commercial an
Travellers’ Letters of Credit.
Drafts issued and Bills collected on most favoux
able terms, at rates which can be ascertained or
application.
Head! Read! Read
History of Botany Bay.
By Arthur Gayll.
Profusely Illustrated by The Bulletin’s well-
known Artists,
L. HOPKINS and PHIL MAY.
Rrioe - One Shilling
Per post, Is. 3d.
Viotoria: A. Benjamin, 321 Little Collins-st., Melbourne
Melbourne : Gordon & Gotch.
Brisbane; J. H. Thompson, Bookseller, Qeorge-street.
Adelaide; Neville & Co.
; Fitzgerald Bros., Georgo-atreet, Launceston.
EPPS’S
GRATEFUL—COMFORTING
COCO A.
1 Sydney Branches:
64 PITT STREET, and 538 GEOROE STREE'
N. F. GIBLIN, Manager.
“THE BULLETIN’S”
Wholesale Agents:
f
o>
MANUFACTURERS
ft IMPORTERS OF
L td-..
HATS CAPS fc
4 SQ CEORCE ST
3VDNEY
Opposite LoosetCers
/V
stp
Branch :
678 GEORGE STREET,
BRICKFIELD HILL,
(Next to Craig and Aitken.)
MANUFACTURING HATTERS,
GEORGE STREET
SYDNEY
IMPORTERS OF'AILTHE
NEWEST SHAPES.
And at ALBERT STREET, BRISBANE.
ffl
<IU
ƒ
n
fiUCH
INC
PO
K
hanufactured er .
|? JjjM£s CtiMNOM J/artourS*
Solid, lx/ ■ctll 3Aate/\jd S'SfrtAee/ifro **
Business Announcements.
rgBHE THREE GREAT LIGHTS
The Needles Patent Gas-making Machine;
The Harvey Patent Safety Kerosene Lamp;
AND THE
New Era Portable Gas Lamp.
-% —
The Harvey Lamp has been adopted by the
Kailway Commissioners for lighting the Sydney
trams. We were awarded the Highest Order of
Ment and Special Mention by experts at the
late Melbourne Exhibition for our lighting
mediums. Over 6000 Harvey Lamps are in use
in this colony, and for all lighting purposes are
givmg universal satisfaction. These Lamps can
be seen on one of the North Shore ferry-boats
and are suitable for all classes of vessels. The
Inventor offers £2OO to anyone producing as good
a Kerosene Burner.
Patentees for Australasia:
"X". Sa l&E X jOC WSs 00.,
494 Kent Street South. SIMEY;
14 Arcade, Adelaide, S.A.; Argent Street, Broken Hill;
Parkside Iron Works, Melbourne.
for Price List and Circular!
AUTOMATIC
“NO TENSION” SEWING MACHINE.
noiseless-lightest running.
Most Boaut'fijl arscl Durable Work.
AND DOES NOT INJURE HEALTH*
ALSO FOIi
Beehives and Supplies, Incubators and Brooders,
Patent Extending Trellis, Stoves for Wood, Coal,
G-as or Oil, Mangles and Washing Machines,
Carpet Sweepers, Preserving Jars, Ice Chests and
Refrigerators, American Egg Cases with Portable
Fillers.
HEBBLEWHITE <sc GO
416 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
[Mention this paper.]
—THE—
SYDNEY SOAP & CANDLE C 0„
Limited,
MANUFACTURERS OF
Stearine and Paraffin Candles,
HOT & COLD WATER SOAP
Of every Description
Glycerine, Lubricating, Machine, Cloth and
Neatsfoot Oils.
—The only Genuine and Original- -
Magic Cleanser Cold Water Soap*
To be had at all Grocers and Storekeepers.
Upfold’s Tree Pest Exterminator,
Its Effects are Marvellous!
“What is Home without a Piotdrb?"
Xj. BEEITASGOITI,
(Late R. Smith)
Hite Carver, Gilder, and Picture Frame Maker,
169 Clarence Street Only, SYDNEY
(near Central Coffee Palace).
Plush Work a Speciality. Mounts Cut to any Design.
H. HILDER,
BOOT UPPER MANUFACTURER
IMPORTER OF
ENGLISH AND FOREIGN LEATHER,
Elastic Web, Grindery, Ac.,
Wholesale and Retail Leather Merchant
639 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
GROTH
PAPER-HANGINGS
Ous,Colours & Paints.
wall papers fr om 3
, PER
ROLL
PA*
529 George BathurstSt
“ Bfuckfleld Hill.
WALTER HOPE,
General Merchant & Commission Agent,
199 SUSSEX STREET, SYDNEY.
/CONSIGNMENTS of all Peobccb, Livb Stock etc
VJ received and realised in the beet markets. Account
Sales and Proceeds remitted the day after sale. Order*
Prices** 1 f ° r all Qood3 ,rom Sydney Lowest Wholesale
Speciality. — Pure-bred and Pedigree Stock of all de-
soripuons Bought or Sou> on Commission. All communi-
on tionsref erring to Pure-bred Poultry and Eggs for Setting
to be addressed as usual to WALTER HOPE, Bonnyrigg
Prize Poultry Farm, Liverpool, K.B.W. 3 **
SPECIAL NOTICE.—The Stditey BoLumif.
Tasmanian Edition Publishers, FITZ-
GERALD BROS. Subscription (payable strictly
in advance), Six Shillings and Sixpence per quar-
ter, or One Pound per annum.
The Bulletin will bo on Sale every Friday at
the Office, George Street, Launceston, or from the
Runners in the street.
PRINCE OE WALES’ HOTEL,
near Opera House, Bourke-st., East, Melbourne.
This well-known Sporting House is eonducted
In First-class Style, Every convenience. Centrally
Situ ted.
