

S ALE.
“DICKENS’" WHISKY.
LIFE BUOY BRAND.
THIS BEST IBg THE MARKET.
USED BY THE LATE CHARLES DICKENS,
AND SUPPLIED TO THE S'RSXdPAI, CEE fig IN SIDNEY
HABJSISON & ATTWOOD, 251
George-st., Sydney, Sole Agents for New South. Wales.
L,
Iv£ar3s:et Street, STTDITB'S"-
UNEIYALLED ACCOMMODATION.
D COCOA.
NEW YORK LIFE INSURANCE CO.
ESTABLISHED
1845.
It is a MUTUAL COMPANY, and NO LIABILITY IS INCURRED by its policy-holders. There are no shareholders, and, consequently,
;T- 1 no interest adverse to those of the policy-holders.
STATEMENT FOR YEAR ENDING 31st DECEMBER, 1889.
1 3
0 0
5 5
10 10
0 0
0 0
0 0
The NON-FORFEITING TREE TONTINE POLICY of this Company combines in one form the greatest number of advantages attainable in
a Life Insurance Policy. The returns on these Policies have been unsurpassed by those of any other Company.
The Policies, as now issued, arc notably FREE FROM RESTRICTIONS as to Occupation, Residence and Travel; are INCONTESTABLE.
AFTER TWO YEARS, except in case of fraud.
CLAIMS ARE PAYABLE IN THE COLONIES at the nearest Branch Office, in sterling ; and all disputed claims (in case any should arise!
in Australia are to be decided by Australian Courts.
Chief Offices, Department of Australasia : ... BOND STREET CHAMBERS, SYDNEY.
. JCSS3!Ewfi&.3E3C IE3CCS’ , GS*@xi.ex*ail
Do not insure until you have seen full particulars of the New York Life’s policies, with guaranteed dividends
N.B.—MEN OF CHARACTER AND ENERGY WANTED AS AGENTS.
Income for year 1889
Amount New Business during 1889
Accumulated Funds 31st December, 1889...
7 • * •
Surplus by the New York State Standard
Total Amount Paid to Living Members during last 45 years, in Endowments,
Dividends, &c. ... ... ... ... ... 16,317,633
Paid to Representatives of Deceased Members .. ... ' ... 10,296,348
Amount of Interest received on Investments .. ... ... 10,878,708
Incontestable Non-Forfeiting Free Tontine Policies
<£6,000,672
31,094,463
21,615,967
3,209,876
Paris House
RESTAURANT FRANCAIS.
TABLE D'HOTE PABISIEHHB, 2s. 6d.
(Wine Included).
PRIVATE ROOMS, 4s.
US?” Being in close proximity to the leading places
of amusement, families intending to spend the
evening at the theatre cannot do better than to
order their dinner here.
Private Booms for Dinners & Suppers,
Suppers after the Theatre -if ordered.
BANQUET ROOMS for PARTIES up to FORTY.
Service a la carte Daily from S a.m. till 11 p.m.
OPEN 03\r SUNDAYS.
Dinners from 3s, 6d. upwards.
Extra Dinners at a Few Minutes' Notice.
o
POINTS or SUPERIORITY.
1. Steel drag bar, in place of cast iron, relieves
all strain on main frame.
2. Side draught obviated by draught rod being
adjustable on drag bar.
3. —All complicated gear; replaced by one bevel
wheel, one pinion.
4. —Knife can be drawn by removal of one colter.
6. Machine will start on dead centre without back-
ing horses in heaviest crops.
;sss
Prizes Won.* IB9Q j-
Quean bey an, First. Waggn, First.
Jerilclerio ,, Hay ,,
{ Prizes
HOWARD STEEL OEIEIT KOWEE.
HOWARD’S ORIEHT BAKES.
Howard’s American Makes.
280| PITT STREET, SYDNEY
Cold Medal
Acknowledged
The Best
The Bulletin
Tol. 11-No. 565.]
| Saturday, December 13, 1890.


CO
TO BA
n
.
■T.-'Orr
hx~a
&a*£ a
DIXSOPSONS
Customs Returns.
American Leaf.
Bixsou and Sous consumed in 1888, 52,592 lbs.
more, and in 1889 (over 44 tons) 98,939 lbs. more
American Leaf than all the rest of New South
Wales put together.
DIXSON ! S TOBACCOS having the largest
sale of any in Australia are
VM
I1&
w:
0
SIR ROGER
Dr. RIDGE’S
FOOD
FOE INFANTS AND INVALIDS
“ This is the MOST PERFECT FOOD
we have examined.”—Chas. H. Piesse,
M.R.C.S., F.C.S., &c. Wm. Johnstone
Ph.D., F.C.S., &c., Public Analysts.
DR. RIDGE’S ROYAL FOOD MILLS,
LONDON, ENGLAND.
MASON BROTHERS,
LIMITED.
GENERAL MERCHANTS & SHIPPING AGENTS,
263 to 277 KENT STREET, SYDNEY.
Have always in stock for sale to the trade and whole-
sale buyers only,
Ironmongery, and
GENERAL HARDWARE
Cllnas, China and
EARTHENWARE.
WINES . BEERS <fc SPIRITS,
AND GENERAL
BULK MERCHANDISE.
Sole Agents for
LUCIEN FOUCAULD & CO.’S
Old Brandies.
J. T. GAYEN’S,
Schnapps and Geneva.
Ist Prize Sydney International Ex,
A, MELVIN and CO.’S
Champagne Pale Ales.
MACHEN’S
"Pelican” Stout.
'The Royal Edinburgh Castle” old Scotch Whiskies.
rue
HOVAfc
£o *r
SPfiCU4R»II»v»
* * A
QUO
ScqichWhisky
Golden Shanty,
PRICE-ONE SHILLING.
UMPLOUGH'*
;p
p
;p
“ You have given me life and living. ”
Colonel Mapleson writes as follows: —’‘Madame Roze.
recognises in your preparation the precious Saline that
she found so invaluable when she visited New Orleans
during the last yellow fever epidemic, in order, by her
concerts, to raise funds for the benefit of the stricken
ones, who could not afford the necessary comforts, and
which the crowded hospitals were unable to supply to
thousands of applicants. Madame Roze was advised by
Dr. Barnes, of London, to take your Saline with her, and
we took several dozen bottles. I really believe it saved
our LIVES.’
Acts as a Gentle but Effectual Restorative ; Allaying all
tendency to Feverishness ; Invigorating.the Digestion.
Acting on the Liver, Bowels and Kidneys imperceptibly
but surely ; tranquillising the Nervous System, inducing
wholesome appetite and recuperating the brain power.
Its utility as a remedy in fevers, and as a cooling drink
in diseases of children, such as scarlet fever, measles, &c.,
has been testified to by the leading members of the
profession. May be had of all Chemists in glass-stoppered
bottles, at 2s. 6d., 4s. 6d. and 11s. each.
CAUTION.—Take care that when you ask for “Lain"
plough’s Pyretic Saline ” you do not have one of the
numerous spurious imitations foisted upon you.
ELLIOTT BROS., Wholesale Agents,
SYDNEY.
GOLDEN SHANTY.
Australian stories and sketches is prose and verse
Bound in handsome Cloth Binding, 2s. 6d., post paid.
LAMFLOTCH'S PYRETIC SALINE
Price One Shilling.
—by—
“ BULLETIN ” WRITERS.
ALL AGENTS.
For Christmas Presents and New Pear Gifts
SEND TO OR CALL AT
FRED C. RASSAXJ’S,
Watchmaker, Jeweller and Optician,
494 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
(Opp. the Markets),
Who has just opened out his Christmas Stock of Gold and
Silver Watches, superior Gold and Silver Jewellery,
Electro-plated Ware, Spectacles, Opera and Field Glasses.
Brazilian Pebble Spectacles, with case, 4s. 6d. per pair.
Silver Hunting Patent Lever Watches from £3 Ss. to £7.
Jewellery Made to Order and Promptly Repaired.
Complete Price List sent Post Free on Application.
Goods forwarded H>y Post Free of Charge.
JJERVE or PHYSICAL FORCE
WHEN LOST,
QUICKLY REGAINED
—BY—
Consulting B< <J. POUI/TON, Chemist,
77 Bourke Street, MELBOURNE,
Who, after intense study and deep research, has
lately discovered a New, Extraordinary, Quick,
Certain and Inexpensive Cure for Diseases of the
Brain and Deranged Functions of the Nervous
System. Consult personally or by letter.
Insure Your Health Against All Risks
—BY TAKING—
Kruse's Fluid Magnesia .
It Cools the Blood, Promotes a Healthy Flow of the Secretions
and Fortifier the System against the Shafts of Disease.
The Best Aperient For Children. Numerous Cold Medals.
Superior to all Others!
(Vide Medical Testimonials, Analysis, &c., accompanying each Bqttle.)
x x
TAKE ONLY KRUSE’S —
Sold in Bottles at Is. 3d., 2s. 6d., 3s. 6d. Each.
Wholesale Agents s Messrs. J3LLSOTT Bros., Ltd
ah*
pLEMINO’S
RELIABLE
Bmffies, Fliaetoas,
AND ''Vj
Oarri ages,
XHT EVSEY STYLE.
Waggons, Waggonettes, BuGlsboards,
and' Harness, • r r£j
To suit all requirements. s|l
Machinery of all Kinds-
WILLIAM FLEIIKS,
22 Clarence Street, Sydney,
axd at ; ! -
Ho.-2 St. James’ Buildings, Melbourne
SPECIAL NOTICE.—The Sydney Bulletin.
Tasmanian Edition Publishers, FITZ-
GERALD BROS. Subscription (payable strictly
in advance), Six Shillings and Sixpence per-quar-
ter, or One Pound per annum.
The Bulletin will be on Sale every Friday at
the Office, George Street, Launceston, or from the
Runners in the street.
CHEAP AHTESIAH WELLS
Sunk at a quarter of the usual coat by the combined
Hydraulic and Pole-Tool Processes,
A SIX-INCH WELL, 529 ft. deep, has been sunk and
cased in eight hours, and 100 ft. in forty minutes, by
the Hydraulic Process. A 1000 ft. Plant, with Derrick
Steam-engine, and Boiler, for £3OO. Can ho run by any
intelligent man. Lighter Plants from £lOO up. We pub-
lish a Treatise on Well-Sinking, with Illustrations, which
we will send you prepaid for Is. THE AMERICAN
WELL WORKS, Box 799, G.P.0., Sydney. ' rjjji
y&jfi’js'ir iSir@s» £«iv
\^>
D
\l/
<>•
< >
rA
y/A
e
: V
o
C2)
Offices
Ml LOUR A „
Melbourne
Renmark
AdELA I DE
England
TpafiUel & C?
- Vmrnni a __ ■
Chaffoy Irrigation Offices, Swanston Street. ■
— South Australia.
Cavendish Chambers, Grenfell Street.
_ J. E. Mathew Vincent, (Chief Commission!!}
Cornwall Buildings, 35 Queen Victoria St
LONDON EC'
NOW READY. —To be had from all News-Agents and Booksellers.
cc
A. GOLDEN SHANTY
65
Australian Sketches in Prose and Verse,
99
f«sa
13
7J
Size, Demy Octavo—with Handsome Coloured Illustrated Cover
Price
ONE SHILLING; per Post, Is, 3d.


Medical.
Dh-SPEEH
29 YORK STREET, WYNYAED SQUARE, SYDNEY,
pO. Box 920. This eminent specialist is a graduated
physician of Harwood University, U.S., registered by the
Governments of N.S.W. and N.Z., and has devoted 16
years to the special study of CHRONIC, NERVOUS, SKIN
and SPECIAL diseases of MEN and WOMEN. All apply-
ing to him will receive his honest opinion of their com-
plaints. No experimenting ;no mercury used. A positive
cure guaranteed or forfeit £2OO. His vast experience
tells him that where there is no organic disease, and
nothing but an inorganic trouble, or, in other words, a
conglomeration of symptoms producing a certain result,
there is no reason why it cannot be removed with the
proper remedies: therefore he guarantees. He claims to
be the most skilful and successful physician in N.S.W. in
his particular speciality, viz., the CHRONIC and SPECIAL
DISEASES of MEN and WOMEN. Examination and
advice free to all. Charges moderate. Office Hours—lo
a.m. to 12 a.m.; 2 to 4 and 7 to 8 pm.
Nervous XSelailx-fcy.
Consult Dr. Speer in all cases of NERVOUSNESS through
indiscretion, for his many years of practice with this
dreadful disease enables him to remove all traces of it and
to return the victims to full VIGOUR, HEALTH and
MANHOOD.
N.B.—TWENTY SHILLINGS is sufficient to send for
remedies necessary for the cure of NERVOUS DEBILITY.
DR. SPEER will forward, post free, the following
celebrated pills:—
1. AMERICAN “VITAL” PILLS, for nervous debility,
lost vitality, sexual weakness, errors, &0., 55., or 21s. for
five boxes,
2. AMERICAN “PRIVATE” PILLS, for discharges,
contagious sores and blood diseases, 55., or 21s. for five
boxes.
3. -“FEMALE” PILLS for irregularities and obstruc-
tions from whatever cause, 10s. and 20s.
M-
t#
WEAK MEN
SUFFERING FROM
BRAIN & NERVE EXHAUSTION.
Any man who in his youth has trifled away his vigour
cf body, mind, and manhood, should consult PRO-
FESSOR CARL STINEWAY, the Eminent Specialist,
in diseases of (lie Qenito-Urinary Organs, who is still
treating with the greatest skill and success all Private,
Nervous, and Chronic Diseases.
Professor STINBWAY’S great success, which has
become so firmly established throughout Australasia,
is based upon the facts : - Ist. That every case treated,
even in its most remote effects, is specially studied,
thus starting aright. ‘2nd. The Medicines and Electric
Appliances used are exactly adapted to suit the case,
thus promptly producing results without overdosing
or injury.
1 SEEK CASES WHERE ALL ELSE HAS FAILED.
Young and middle-aged men and others, who
suffer from Nervous and Physical Debility,
Exhausted Vitality, Premature Dei line, &c., can
recover the same degree of health, strength,
and energy experienced in former years, by
consulting (in / ersen or by letter, which is free).
Professor CAUL STiNEWAY, who has restored
thousands of sufferers to vigorous manhood
after all other treatment had failed, it makes
no difference what you have taken, or who has
failed to cure you. Cases that I accept for treat-
ment are quickly and permanently cured,
DO ANY OF THE FOLLOWING SYMPTOMS
OR CLASS OP SYMPTOMS MEET YOUR
DISEASED CONDITION Are you a sufferer
from bad health in any of its many forms, consequent
on a lingering Nervous, Chronic, or Functional
Disease ? Do you feel nervous, debilitated, fretful,
timid, and lack the pow nof will and action? Are
you subject to loss of memory; have spells of faint-
ing ; fullness of blood n the head; feel listless,
moping, unfit for business or pleasure, and subject to
fits of melancholy ? Are your kidneys, stomach,
urinary organs, liver, or blood in a disordered con-
dition ? Do you suffer from Rheumatism, Neuralgia,
or other aches and pains? Are you timid, nervous,
and forgetful, with your mind continually dwelling
on the subject? Have you lost confidence in yourself,
and energy for business pursuits? Are you subject
to restless nights, broken sleep, dreams, palpitation of
the heart, bashtulness, confusion of ideas, aversion
to society, dizziness in the head, dimness of sight,
pimples on the face and back, and other desponding
symptoms? If you are afflicted, why further neglect
your health or future happiness, when by a single
consultation (which costs nothing) you can be placed
on the way to health strength, and vigour?
VARICOCELE easily and
quickly cured toy uiy only
Genuine Electric Appliance,
toy Royal Eetters Patent.
Persons living at a distance who desire
treatment without delay can, by forward-
ing a full description of their case and
£l, receive Medicines by return of post.
Do not despair, even though ail others have failed
in your case. I will cure you. My vast experience
enables me to guarantee a positive cure in all cases
undertaken. CONSULTATIONS FREE. Medicines
sent secure from observation to any part of
Australasia.
“From Bondage to Freedom,” my latest
and entirely new work on Brain and
Nerve Exhaustion, Private, Nervous, and
Chronic Diseases, should be read by every
man ; nearly one hundred pages. By post,
two stamps.
A written guarav.tcs given in all cases un-
dertaken, and no promises made that ago, in-
tegrity, and long experience do* not justify.
Ely UYGIO-ELECTRIC APPLIANCES (by
Royal Letters patent) are the only genuine
Bells and Trusses in Australia.
I cldrcßS
Professor CARL ST/NEV/AY,
21 ELIZABETH STREET,
Melbourne, Victoria.
MENTION THIS PAPER.
Sometliing KTew.
VOUK NAME neatly printed on Forty (40) Beautiful
L Emljnssut VISITING GAUDS, comprising Floral
Landscape, Sea View, liird, Ac. No two alike. ALL
*DR ONF. SHILLING in St amps, postage paid. Agents
wanted. Samples free. Address—
Austral Ctml and Novelty €o„
It Hunter Stkkxt. SYDNEY.
Medical.
COLEMane*sONS
rat
THE TREE OF LIFE.
EuCALVPTE ’OI.LSa
Victory Ointments.
D uncan Robs,
The Great American Athlete,
CURED of INFLUENZA by using COLEMANE & SONS
EUCALYPTE EXTRACT.
DON’T BE DECEIVED.
If you want the best Medicine the world has ever pro-
duced, try Colemane & Sons’ Eucalypte Extract— there
are no ten medicines equal to it. It is one of Nature’s
greatest gifts to mankind. It is the only known cure for
Asthma, Consumption, Bronchitis, and all affections of
the Chest and Lungs. For Palpitation of the Heart,
Gravel and Kidney complaints it has no equal. Fevers of
all kinds, Coughs, Colds, Rheumatism, etc., are banished
by its use. Awarded Medals and Diplomas Adelaide,
Sydney and Melbourne, beating all competitors. Children
should have Eucalypte Honey or Eucalypte Lozenges.
Adults will find sugar-coated Eucalypte' Pills pearls of
great price. JEST" For external use try Colemane and
Sons Special Oil. Sole Manufactory, Cootamundra
[ADM’
TANSY PILLS are better than
Steel, Pennyroyal, or Ergot. Cure*
obstructions from ’whatever cause.
Never fails. No Pills or Powd****
like them. Particulars free.
W. PARKER. P.O, Box 100, Melbourne.
A
GOLDEN SHANTY.
PRICE : ONE SHILLING.
n Handsome Cloth Binding, 2s 6d, post paid*
Medical.
33001 i of 3NTatnre.
4
-1
i
«
•16
330c»1c of TSTEa/fc-ULX*®.
BOOK OF NATURE and Illustrated Mariage
Guide.— A full and explicit explanation 'of the
structure and uses of the organs of life and generation in
man and woman, intended especially for the married,
or those intending to marry, and who conscientiously
and honestly desire to inform themselves upon the intent
and nature of conjugal pleasures anddutiesyto which is
added A COMPLETE MEDICAL TREATISE upon all
diseases of the generative organs, whether resulting from
infection or abuse, with much other valuable and highly
important information, illustrated with more than fifty
engravings, fully depicting the mysterious process of
gestation, from the time of conception to the period of
delivery. No such complete panorama of the mysteries
of human production has ever before been given to the
world, by D. Lafayette M. Byrn, M.D., price 3/6, post
4/-. The art of Boxing, Swimming, and Gymnastics made
easy, enabling anyone to become an expert boxer and
athlete, price 1/-. Plain Home Talk about the Human
System, new edition, 200 illustrations, by Dr. Foote post
free 7/6. The Emits of Philosophy or Private Companion
for Young Married People, 1/-, post 1/2. Mrs. Besant’s
Law of Population, 1/-, post 1/2. Aristotle, complete, 3/0,
post!/-. Maria Monk, 1/6, post 1/9. Marriage as it was,
as it is, and as it should be, by Annie Besant, 1/-, by
post 1/2. Wonderful Song Book, extra large, 1/6. How
to Mesmerise, Thought Reading, Mesmeric Entertain-
ments, &c., price 1/6.
“ Every Man his own Schoolmaster, or How to
Educate One’s Self, illustrated ; price 1/6.
Modern Etiquette, Parties, Courtship, Love, Dress,
Visiting Introductions, Weddings, &c., 1/6.
“ The Silent Friend,” by Dr. Lamartine, 1/0.
The Secret of Beauty Revealed, and Guide to Female
Loveliness ; price Is.
“ Nigger Stump Speeches and Comic Pattern,” Cd.
The Male Generative Organs, their use and abuse, in
health and disease, from infancy to old age, with the
treatment of all their derangements, for every man’s own
private use; illustrated by numerous engravings and
colored plates, by Dr. F. Hollick, M.D., new revised
Australian edition, superior cloth binding, gilt, price 5/,-
post free. R. BEAR, Central Book Depot, 16 Park
Street, SYDNEY.
9
fr\
y
*5 >
•v
c
sr
■WCTiHiiillUhsa
oo
CO
>
ZJJ rn
£
MlllllllH
7.
%
rs
■Hliiin
ii mi
«i
68
CLARENCE S*
SYDNEY.
AGENTS
m New South Wales.
TRIUMPH
of The (To o d piri t over Bad.
Used in hospitals throughout the world in preference to the
best Trench Brandy. TRY IT.
Ixuportazit to Nervous
Suffersrs.
% M W|H
S.
m
‘lll|IOIIUl|yD,|
Dr. PERRY,
M.R.C.S., L.S.A., &c.,
Registered by the Medical Board of N.S.W. ; Late
House Surgeon to the Great Northern Hospital, London.
Specialist for the Treatment of Diseases
OF THE
Reproductive Organs and Nervous Complaints.
WHY I ADVERTISE.
I advertise because I consider it necessary that people
suffering from Nervous, Sexual and Chronic Complaints,
should be able to ascertain which
DI M-QUA 1.1 Fill D I’RAFTITIOXERS
make these diseases a speciality, particularly as, under
the present law, any person can call himself Hoctor or
I’rofessor, whether he in entitled to do so or not; and these
persons exist, chiefly, because Duly Qualified Prac-
titioners have not occupied the field.
Dr. PERRY invites the fullest investigation into his
credentials, and gives his' Personal Consideration to
each Case, and in all cases tells ttie Patient the exact
nature of his complaint, the cost of a cure, and the time
it will take.
Dr. PERRY’S experience in the treatment of these
Diseases has been so varied and extensive, that he is able
to tell absolutely whether the case is Curable or not, and
therefore is willing to
Guarantee to CURE EVERY CASE he Undertakes.
VARICOCELE quickly and successfully treated without operation, DIABETES and TUMOURS treated by a
totally new method of Cutaneous Medication.
Send for Dr. PERRY’S Work oil Diseases of the Reproductive Organs, Diabetes, Tumours, Skin Diseases,
etc., containing many simple directions as to SELF-MANAGEMENT, the observance of which is, in many oases,
sufficient to place the Patient in a healthy state. All who are in any way affected should procure this work, and
(Ims have the benefit of his advice and experience. FREE ON APPLICATION.
Consultation Hours from 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. rath WEEKDAY, and from 7 to 9 p.m. on TUESDAY and SATURDAY
EVENINGS. All Consultations (either | ... la'lv or by letter) FREE. Address -
Dr. M. PERRY, n.R.C.S., Elmley House,
161 ELIZABETH HTM'ET. HYDE PARK. SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Mention this Paver.
Medical.
Esr. RICHARDS.
The new ELECTRICAL, CONSULTING and
LABORATORY ROOMS being completed, Dr.
Richards will in future be pleased to welcome his
friends and patients, during his consulting hours
at his new address,
34 COLLEGE STREET, SYDNEY.
mm
shill 1 sfei
’v-<
g
mz
A- • 3.
n
teTTTTTTfn-trf
This eminent Specialist, Founder, and Chief
Surgeon of the long-established and favourably-
known Dispensary that now bears his name, re
ceived his medical education in the leading college i
and hospitals of Europe, He has devoted a life-
time to the study of
PRIVATE, NERVOUS, AND SKIN
DISEASES.
He has by profound research thoroughly investi-
gated their origin, traced their deadly sources and
insidious dissemination, and ascertained the surest
and safest methods by which they may be eradi-
cated, with these widely recognised qualifications
combinei with unswerving faithfulness to his
patients, oe has during his practice, extending
over FORT Y YEARS, attained a well-deserved
pre-eminence in their treatment. His practice
embraces diseases which probably cause more un-
happiness than any other class of troubles that
afflict mankind.
YOUNG MEN
who suffer from the results of early follies, trans-
gressions or excesses of more nature age, bladder
difficulties, a whitish or dark ropy sediment in
the water, accompanied by slight burning or
smarting sensation, Headaches, Drowsiness during
the day, circles round the eyes, Giddiness,
irregularity of the bowels, specks before the eyes,
bashfulness, discontentedness, weakness or pains
in the back, Liver or kidney complaints, dreams,
buzzing noises in the ears and head, pimples, a
fear that something dreadful is about to happen,
weak stomach, yellow or blood-shot eyes, impure
blood, hasty, uncontrollable temper, hacking
cough, who cannot marry, nervousness in society,
wakefulness, palpitation of the heart, general
weakness, and other symptoms which lead to in-
sanity and death, should consult him, for he has
mastered these difficulties. On receipt of 6d. in
stamps ho will send secure from observation in a
plain wrapper, postage
FREE, A LARGE CLOTH-BOUND
BOOK.
Showing plainly how ail diseases of the private or
ncrvoiis system may be cured thoroughly and per-
manently without unnecessary expence. This
book will prove a valuable companion, and even
though you bo perfectly well its general inform-
tiou and prescription may assist you in restoring
some poor friend to health even after his case has
been pronounced incurable by his medical at-
tendant.
ONE FOUND IS SUFFICIENT TO
SEND
for Remedies necessary for the cure of NER-
VOUS DEBILITY Should you require medical
treatment, o.s procrastination is sometimes dan-
gerous, it would bo advisable for you to sit down
quietly in your chamber and write to the doctor,
detailing every experienced symptom. Ho will
on receipt of such u letter, write you, promptly
and courteously, a candid and straightforward
oponion of your case. If you do not think you
understand the case, send for his famous medical
work, ihe price of which is but sixpence ; enclosed
in the volume will bo found a hst of carefully-pre-
pared questions, which will, in all probability,
assist you materially in describing your ailment.
Dr. Richards uses nothing but the purest remedies,
and never prescribes mercury under any circum-
stances. The moment letters are carefully per-
used and answered they are destroyed by fire,
and patients may rest assured that their cases
will remain a secret between the doctor and
themselves. Dr. Richards has successfully treated
nearly 25,000 cases since coming to Australia, and
has permission from at least 10,000 persons to
show their written evidence of his success. All
communications should be addressed
Dr. RICHARDS,
34 COLLEGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Be sure to mention this paper when writing
CONSULTATION FREE.


T
1U imited,
m
s
Oiin
$
mu
i ‘J ...
ms-
mm
Machinery and Implement Manufacturers and Importers.
T. E. AND Co.’s Improved STEEL EAETH SCOOPS, on Wheels or Skid.
T. E. AND Co.’s DAM-SINKING or EOAD-MAKING PLOUGHS, all
sizes.
T. R. and Co.’s New DRAIN DORMERS.
T. R. AND Co.’s « Solway ” Patent TUMBLE-OYER BOX WOOL-
PRESS —the Cheapest and Best yet made.
T. R. AND Co.’s STEAM, HORSE or HANDPOWER WOOL-PRESSES.
T. R. AND Co.’s HARVESTING MACHINERY of every description.
T. R. and Co., Ltd., are SOLE AGENTS for the
New Light Steel “ Brantford ” Reaper and Binder.
: 407 & 40© ESliZSttoetilx Estisrool:, 3^IE3XjIOOTTIF^INri3.
F.
&
LIMITED
GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
Write for Catalogue of Watches (by post, FREE).
THOUSANDS SOLD.
IPos-fc
Free.
15s.
Genuine Success of the
WANDERER ” WATCH.
WILL LAST FOU TEAKS.
fW* The WANDERERS are really first-
class, and noted as being the only CHEAP
watches ever offered to the Australian Public,
combining such good qualities as
Accuracy, Serviceableness Si Durability,
Jewelled in six holes, and takes only eight
seconds to wind.
Post
Fr e e.
16s.
BACK.
Lady's Solid Silver
Keyless Watch*
Open Face, with best enamelled
dial, very tastefully engraved,
jewelled in six holes, calculated
to keep good time and last for
years.
Price -30 s.
FACE.
Cl
&
A Wonder of Cheapness!
LADY’S
Solid Silver Watch.
Open Face, Keyless, Enamelled
Dial, Crystal Glass.
This watch has six jewels and is
thoroughly well made, having all
the qualities for a grand time-
keeper.
RJ?' PRICE, 21a. XS
/
V
Write fox* Catalogue of Oliriatmas croods.
11111
S*E9
I
\
#
S
>*
m
—©—S»
I :\
V ' "
P¥
-v;
Captain Cuttle.”
This Watch is a Hunter and Keyless, well-made through-
out, enamelled dial jewelled in six holes, and will stand
very hard wear.
Frice 20s.
Post free, 20s 8d (regd.)
■AaxipAs ay dTIITO*! ‘»ttas
M
•—3
t?d
t—*
t*d
i-3
W
tr -1
t?d
Cleoverb
Transparent
Soap
Best and Cheapest
In the Market.
Tlie Bulletin Christmas Number.
The CHRISTMAS NUMBER of The Bulletin (double the size of the usual weekly issue) will be published on
18th December, 1890. It will contain original Stories, Prose, Yerse, etc., from the pens of the leading writers of Australasia.
A. Magnificent Coloured Su.pplem.ent, entitled
“ PROTECTION 1 ” (an Old Love Story Re-told),
Will accompany the Number, which will also be Profusely Illustrated with Original Drawings from the pencils of Livingston
Hopkins, G. E. Ashton, Phil. May, Spence, Mahoney, Egersdorfer, and others.
Expense will not be spared to make this issue the best and most brilliant Australasian publication of the Christmas season.
&r iwo laxrojciDEa-A-SJB xaxr n^iFtioiES.


The Bulletin
Vol. 11-No. 565.
SATURDAY, DECEMBER 13, 1890.
Price, 64.
GREASING THE EAT PIG.
L.B.M.: “Aren’t yon putting it on rather thick, Mac?”
Treasurer M'MILLAN: “P’r'aps so. But it don’t cost me anything; besides, the pig likes it—oh, he does like it!"


Notice to Agents.
A capital Christmas Number of The
Bulletin (double the size of the usual weekly
issue) will he published on 18th DECEMBER,
1890. It will contain Bright and Original
Stories, Prose, Perse, etc., from the pens of
the leading winters of Australasia.
A Coloured Supplement
—ENTITLED—
“PROTECTION”
An Old Love Story Re-told,
Will accompany the Number, which will also
be prof usely illustrated with Original Drawings
from the pencils of Livingston Hopkins, G. li.
Ashton, Phil. May, Spence, Mahony , Egers-
dorfer, and others.
Expense will not be spared to make this issue
the best and most brilliant Australasian pub-
lication of the Christmas season.
Intending subscribers are requested to place
heir orders with Bulletin agents without*
delay. Anyone beyond the reach of an agent,
tcan obtain a single copy by mailing addres
and 7d. in stamps to Bulletin office.
N.B.—As The Bulletin, owing to the
enormous demand for its Xmas Number, has
frequently been unable to fulfil late orders,
agents will please state their requirements
without delay.
The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
“Australia for the Australians.’'
Proprietors : BULLETIN newspaper CO„
Limited,
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 21 Pitt- street, Sydney, New South Wales.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(payable in advance, only).
Per Annum £lO 0
Half-yearly ... ' ... 012 6
Quarterly 0 6 6
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Macleod, Managing Director.
Literary Communications to be addressed to J. P.
Archibald.
The Editor will carefully read and acknowledge in the
“ Correspondence” column all contributions submitted — 1
whether in the form of Political, Social, or other Articles,
Verse, Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in
length, or say SOOO ivords, are specially acceptable),
Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper-Clippings. All
communications will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin” will return all unavailable MSS. token
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we
desire those sending MSS. to distinctly undei stand that
we are not responsible for the preservation or transmission
of such MSS.
NOTICE.
By sending direct to The Bulletin - Office Twenty Shillings
sterling—which you may pay by Post Office Order, One
Pound Note, or Stamps of any Australian colony—you
can have Thb Bulletin posted regularly to you every week
for a year.
This offer is not open to residents of Sydney. In that
city The Bulletin is not delivered by mail, but is entirely
in the hands of our carriers, with whom wo do not 'wish
to interfere.
Organisations of the Discontented.
SATURDAY, DECEMBER 13, 1890.
2.—SOCIALISM.
It is about one hundred and fifty years
since Rousseau said: “Were there no
luxury there would be no poor ” —a propo-
sition restated by the modern Socialist
thus : Were there no idlers all might enjoy
some measure of luxury ; for were society’s
tasks fairly apportioned, and the sources of
wealth open to all, then the absolutely-
necessary work would be performed so
speedily that many might be engaged in the
production of luxuries, and all would have
the leisure to cultivate a taste for refined
enjoyment. “ The fact that many men are
making clothes for one individual,” observed
Montesquieu, “ is the cause of there being
so many people without clothes.” Here the
Socialist again makes an emendation by
asserting that although inequitable distribu-
tion causes much poverty, that inadequate
production is the main source of the ever-
increasing flood of human misery ; that not
only are the clothes now made unfairly dis-
tributed, but farther, that clothes are not
made” in sufficient quantities to supply the
bodily ivants of the earth’s inhabitants. In
every country under the sun, even the
most densely-populated, cultivable land lies
fallow, ores await the alchemist who shall
transform them into the accessories of civi-
lised existence and the implements of pro-
duction, while houseless, ill-clad and hungered
men, women and children vainly cry aloud
in the market-place for shelter, raiment,
food and employment. The problem, there-
fore, is mainly how to increase production,
and chiefly that of food.
# * *
It has been asked : If poverty and its
attendant miseries can be traced back to the
monopolisation of land and the implements
of production in the hands of the Few, how
is it that the defrauded Many—invested with
moral right and physical might—have not,
long ere this, combined to bring about an
alteration for the better ? The question is
easily answered : Simply because their
poverty has induced a know-nothingness in
which they were easily persuaded by those
whose interests demanded a continuation of
their ignorance, that there always must be
hewers of wood and drawers of water, and
therefore always rich and poor ; that those
whom incapacity and lack of desire for better
things doom to drudgery, must always re-
main content to receive in return just as much
of the use-values created by their labour as
those who live at ease think proper to allot
them. The priest has unceasingly asserted
that, according to Divine dispensation, “ the
poor ye shall have with you always,” and
the economist leads up to the same conclu-
sion by stating that poverty is an unalterable
result of the irrevocable laws of nature.
Rebellion, therefore, on the first count, was
deemed impious ; on the second, illogical.
Nevertheless, revolutions have occurred.
Kings, priests, landlords and lawgivers, all,
to some extent, creatures of circumstances,
have been slain times without number ;
again and again, loudly denouncing they
knew not whom, have the proletary met,
conspiring against fate, to curse God and die
beneath the bayonets and buckshot of an
equally ill-informed authority. But the cries
of the discontented have heretofore been
inarticulate, and it is the aim of the modern
social reformer to apprise them of the source
of their misery and their power to eradicate
all that is now responsible for it. It was
first necessary, however, that they should
become normally discontented. The satisfied
pig remains a pig all his days : the drudge
satisfied with mere subsistence wages (the
hovel and coarse food that distends an easily-
satisfied stomach at the close of a long day’s
weary work) is doomed to an everlasting
drudgedom, which he hands down unim-
paired to his successors, embellished, in
some cases, by lingering starvation on in-
adequate wages, and, in extreme cases, by
absolute want of even the things necessary
to brutish existence. But education—the
education of the schoolroom, the library, the
newspaper article, the outdoor meeting and
the rough-and-ready teachings of bitter ex-
perience—is gradually exorcising the demon
of hoggish satisfaction, and all over the
world organisations of the discontented are
shaping the wail of the oppressed into
articulate speech and sounding the knell of
drudgedom.
* # *
Drilled by adversity, incited by suffering,
educated in spite of their task-masters, the
proletary begin to recognise that land and
labour are the only absolute necessities of
existence ; that wages are not paid by the
capitalist, but, on the contrary, that the
capitalist is subsidised by the wage-earner ;
that the employer does not advance wages
to the worker, but that the worker advances
labour to the capitalist ; that capital is not
the result of the exertions and abstinence
of the product-owner and property-holder,
but of the exertions and abstinence of the
producer ; that there is no conflict, no cause
for conflict between the labourer and capi-
tal, the animate and the inanimate,
the tradesman and the tool, but that the
disagreement is solely between the creators
of all wealth and its licensed appropriators.
They begin to see dimly that money is a
mere convenience of exchange, sometimes a
lying token of a wealth that has no real exis-
tence, an instrument in unscrupulous hands
for the enslavement of the masses, and that,
were all gold, silver and copper coin, bank-
notes, and bills destroyed, none of the
operations of nature and man would be sus-
pended ; that were all monopolistic restric-
tions --aye, and the paraphernalia of produc-
tion —annihilated, that only those would
perish to whom the creation of surplus-value
and the power to expropriate it, are neces-
sities of existence. “ Formerly the problem
was,” says G. H. Lewes, “ Given the welfare
and advantages of the Few, how best to re-
concile these with the welfare of the Many ?
It now is : Given the welfare of the Many
how best to secure the advantages of the
Few?” The problem of the immediate
future, declares the Socialist, is ; How may
wo best attain the welfare of All ?
* # *
Over-population is a relative condition. It
exists only because monopoly’s existence de-
mands the maintenance of a reserve labour
force. The greater the accumulations of the
wealthy, the greater the misery of the prole-
tariat and the larger the industrial reserve*
The inevitable result of production for pro-
duction’s sake, accumulation for accumula-
tion’s sake is that they constantly evolve —in
direct proportion to their hoardings—a
surplus army of drudges by whose aid wages
are kept down and the dependency of the
employe on the employer (the so-called state
or free contract existing between the holder
of the commodity, capital, and the owner of
the commodity, labour, so necessary to the
former’s dominance) is perpetuated, indeed
extended, for every increase of capital, in
monopolistic hands, is directly responsible
for an increase of the toilers’ burdens. Thus,
as statistics prove, two-thirds of the world’s
products are expropriated from the producer
as rent, interest, profits, insurance, broker-
age, &c.
# * *
Socialists do not propose an equal division
of the world’s wealth among the world’s in-
habitants, as the ignorant, whose sole notion
concerning Socialism is that furnished by
Marryatt’s “Equality Jack,” with an in-
evitable return to the former state of things,
suppose, but a State resumption of all natural
sources of wealth, and the jointly-created
instruments of production, in trust for all
the members of the community, compensat-
ing, in deserving cases, the dispossessed with
annuities. In fact, they do not intend to
patch up the present social system, but
gradually to construct a new one by
displacing competitive production for profit,
whose fundamental support is the appro-
priation of self-earned private property,
to make room for use-production by asso- ’
dated effort and a social system whose aim
is, not as now ; “ Each for himself and the
devil take the hindmost,” but “Each for all
and all for each.” In a community thus
organised, it will be essential that every
resident shall perform some useful office,
either with hand or brain, as producer, dis-
tributor, superintendent, administrator, in-
structor or amuser, while the results of each
man’s efforts shall belong absolutely to him-
self, except the portion necessary for the
replacement, diffusion and extension of the
capital which is common property. All
things will not be held in common, but all
that is necessary to the production of wealth
shall be common property, and production
will be carried on by united effort for univer-
sal benefit. Socialism, therefore, does not
aim at the substitution of one form of class
dominance for another, but at the annihila-
tion of all forms of class dominance and the
substitution of a community of interest, the
abolition of class selfishness and the substitu-
tion of a spirit which will strive for the bene-
fit of the entire human family.
# # *
Most Socialists advocate the carrying-on
of industrialism by the formation of trades-
groups in every district who would send
delegates to a central executive. The funds
necessary for communal purposes would,
probably, be provided by the payment of
royalties subscribed by the occupants of land
and the utilisers of national resources.
# * #
Railways, tramways and .other means of
transit, light and water supplying concerns
would, most likely, be controlled by the
municipalities whose domains they tra-
versed, and as industries in these days
would be run for use and not for profit, all
the return looked for would be a sum suffi-
cient to keep the concern in thorough work-
ing order.
# # •
Land, of course, would be nationalised
and, as the only recognised titles will be
occupancy and intelligent utilisation, all idle
portions, except those devoted to com-
munal purposes, will be open to free and
immediate entry.
* * «
Education in all its branches will be free
and secular, and, up to a certain age, com-
pulsory, because education is necessary to
amicable and useful existence, and because
the ignorant are the prey of those unscru-
pulous enough to make intellectual superi-
ority an instrument for the enslavement of
those not so favoured in mental equipment.
# # *
It is argued that in a community thus
organised, the disappearance of poverty and
the minimising of ignorance will remove
most of the incentives to crime and all the
hotbeds where it has been hitherto propa-
gated, and thus the administration of Justice
will cease to be a matter of such extent and
complexity. As Law is obviously intended
for the protection of the weak against the
encroachments of the strong, and not ac-
counted an article to be obtained in return
for prompt cash only, it will then be ad-
ministered free of cost by an elective
tribunal. Not only will there be no court
fees, there will be also no lawyer’s charges,
for the legal, like the judicial fraternity,
will be paid for the services they render the
community out of the common fund.
# * *
By a simple extension of the present
system, whereby museums, libraries, picture-
galleries, parks and baths, in most large
centres, are supported from the national
exchequer for the public benefit, it is pro-
bable, in a Socialistic State, that all places
of recreation will be national property, and
that the sole qualifications for admission will
be cleanliness and decorum. As entertain-
ments will not then be run for profit, seats
will not then be crowded together, galleries
will not be piled tier on tier, and there will
be no distinction as to the quality of the
sittings, little difference in the convenience
ot the position.
* # *
It was lately urged against Socialism by a
correspondent of the Evening News that the
formulations of its various propagandists
differ in many particulars. It is surely
evident that a social system is not to be
planned out and shapen like a coat or a
kitchen-table, but must be gradually beaten
into coherence and shape when heated at the
tire of public opinion by the hammer of per-
sonally-acquired experience on the anvil of
daily life.
* * *
It also was argued that the spread of edu-
cation and easy access to natural resources
would render itimpossible to obtain thosewho
should perform the community’s unpleasant
offices. But it is hardly necessary to doom
many millions of human beings to every
kind of misery in order that the supply of
scavengers may not fail. In a highly,
civilised state the use of scientific appliances
and chemicals will doubtless neutralise the
disagreeableness of the world’s dirty work.
Unpleasant duties may be allotted, however,
as punishment to evil-doers, or to those least
mentally-gifted, when labour is no longer
considered a degrading condition, their per-
formance will not be looked upon as deroga-
tory. It is certain that tire spread of
scientific education will make all kinds of
work more interesting and incalculably in-
crease the capabilities of mankind for intel-
ligent effort, instead of lessening the natural
desire to be of use.
* * *
Although hundreds of Socialists have
calmly resigned fortune and life in Russia
and elsewhere for Socialism’s sake, it is often
calmly cited as an objection that it is ordy
advocated by those who have nothing to lose,
or by the idle and impecunious for the pur-
pose of self-aggrandisement. Should a
wealthy Socialist be pointed out, however, it
is at once asserted that were he sincere he
would not remairr wealthy. To the first
attack the Socialist replies that the assump-
tion that the wronged have no right to de-
mand justice because they would personally
benefit by its being put into execution,
scarcely requires refutation. To the latter
charge his answer is that while competitive
production endures, the distribution of the
wealth held by wealthy Socialists among
their poorer brethren would only temporarily
relieve poverty and would not divert wealth
from the exploitation of labour. The money
owned by an honest Socialist, say they,
can best be laid out in propaganda work.
* # *
The sapient Evening News correspondent
asserts that in a Socialistic State, individual-
ism would be crushed, the reward of merit
entirely done away with, and that the intelli-
gent would then stand on an outward level
with their most ignorant neighbours. To
this the reply is that merit rarely receives its
full reward, indeed in thousands of cases is
wholly denied recognition ; that the bulk of
the inhabitants of any country have small
chance for the development of individuality
and are, for all useful purposes, as dependent
on the will of others as if chattel slaves ; that,
nowadays, the genius of the Haeckels,
Spencers and Tennysons does not gain for
them a tithe of the consideration freely
accorded to the gilded stupidity of
a Vanderbilt or a royal princeling ; that
in a Socialist State, the highest qualities
will receive the highest recognition, and that
the equality desired by Socialists is not a
supposititious equality of physical or mental
excellence, but of opportunity to live and
attain excellence and of evenhandedness in
the administration of justice. In any case,
pecuniary reward, alone, never incited any-
one to the performance of great or noble
deeds. Latent faculty demands for itself
cultivation and expression ; it will out, even
if there be no alchemists to transmute it
into precious metals, or seats in high places.
* # *
Again —still quoting from the News’ paper-
spoiler—it is asserted that “ Socialism will
be an incentive to idleness, for the result
(sic) of industry is done away with when a
father cannot transmit anything towards the
maintenance of his family after his decease.”
That is to say : Jones will deliberately
starve himself and family during his life-
time, because he cannot support them after
his death ; a line of argument that would
have adherents nowhere, if not at Glades-
ville. Passing over the absurdity of this
wildly illogical supposition, it maybe pointed
out that, could human beings be thus affected,
the world’s work would be at a standstill,
for not one worker in a thousand has the
slightest chance of transmitting anything of
value to his heirs at decease. In a Socialistic
community, however, the dying parent may
with confidence leave his or her little ones
to the charge of a State that gladly assumes
the parentage of all who are young and
helpless.
# # *
Further, Socialism will be a direct incen-
tive to industry, for whereas many are now
entirely exempt from useful exertion, then
it will be absolutely necessary that all,
except the physically and mentally incapaci-
tated, shall work if they would eat.
* * #
Another objection is, that an extension of
State duties would entail an increase of State
corruption. To this it is replied that now
everything is governed by commercialism,
that profit is the first law of existence, and
that even principles are bought and sold, but
that in the organisation which is to be, com-


mercialism will have small place, corruption
slippery foothold. Now the State is master
of the People ; then, it will be only an ex-
pression of the People’s will.
# * *
The basis of Socialism, therefore, is co-
operative effort attended by distributive
justice. To recapitulate : A State thus con-
stituted will control natural resources and
reproductive forces—the means of produc-
tion and distribution of wealth—but will not
interfere with the disposition of self-earned
private property. Herein it differs widely
from Communism which aims at the control,
not only of the instruments and manner of
production and distribution, but absolutely
of all the produce. In fact every Communist
is a Socialist and something more, for the
motto of the former is: “To each according
to his needs,” while the latter’s is: “To
each according to his deeds,” or, “ No rights
without duties, no duties without rights.”
PLAIN ENGLISH.
England’s Goodness.
Speaking recently on the Federation question,
Minister Bruce Smith, of the New South
Wales Cabinet, rose to grease the old chariot of
loyalty:—
England protects us without any cost with her army and
navy, supported by the poor of England ; and if England
asked us to contribute as much for its interests as it con-
tributes to us, we should probably turn round and insult
the Crown of England. Why, England does everything
for us!
It is time that this miserable old yarn had a
rest. England, as Mr. Bruce Smith ought to
know, does not protect Australia with her
army, for the said army is not here, neither
would it be likely to get here in time if it were
wanted, and in any case it wouldn’t come
whether it was wanted or not, for it is all
required to keep down Nationalism in Ireland,
and to collect tithes in Wales, and to jump on
the hungry mob in London and India, and it is
in a state of chronic mutiny into the bargain.
And supposing it did come it would do so for
the purpose of fighting England’s enemies, not
the enemies of Australia, for this country has
none ; and consequently it would be attending
exclusively to its own business. Moreover,
England’s army is not altogether supported by
the “ poor of England,” seeing that it is one-
half Asiatics supported by the poor of India,
and as the poor of Australia keep up, in pro-
portion to their number, quite as large a force
as the rest of the Empire, Bruce Smith’s sym-
pathy is utterly misplaced. Further, the
British navy, so far as it is expended
in these waters, is employed to defend,
not) Australia, but British commerce in
the Australian seas, and this country is no
more obligated to pay for this service than
Brazil or the Argentine republic to pay for the
cruisers which haunt their shores for a precisely
similar object. Notwithstanding which Aus-
tralia does pay a yearly contribution towards
the support of a British squadron, and makes a
conspicuous ass of herself by so doing because
England would have to keep the ships there in
any case. The only service which the Austra-
lias ever received from any British force was
the massacre of the diggers at Ballarat, and the
kindly assistance of that gang of brigands
known as the New South Wales Corps, and the
Mother Country has never yet paid for the
breakages committed by those two hordes—
neither, apparently, does she intend to. No
doubt there is a possibility that any further
attempts at exaction by the Imperial Govern-
ment might lead the Australian people to “turn
round and insult the Crown of England,” but
as the said Crown supplies neither the army
nor the navy, and does not defend Australia or
any other place, there is a considerable lack of
relevancy in this observation. Certainly the
fact that the “ poor of England ” bear the chief
burden of the forces maintained in England, while
the Crown grabs all the best offices for its relatives
is sufficient justification for any insults that
may be levelled at that article of furniture, but
as the Crown keeps on its way unmoved it
would seem that up to date it had not been in-
sulted anything like so much as it requires.
And finally the Minister’s declaration that
England “does everything” for Australia is
about as wildly impossible as the assertion
that England has boiled the North Pole, for no
country mentioned in history or tradition ever
“ did everything” for another, and in addition
no country ever did anything for another except
in the hope that her own interests would some-
how be served thereby.
Consistent Piety,
“British society,” says the Age, apropos to
the awful smash of that eminent co-respondent
Parnell, “is sincerely and consistently pious.”
The Bulletin comes on deck to remark, in a
hoarse, muffled tone, that it cordially endorses
this sentiment. Piety is the strong point of
the British nation, and it is a hog for morals
and humanity. When it hears of a perishing
sinner anywhere its soul is stirred right down to
its boots, and it collects money from people who
are starving to send a missionary to that sinner,
and when the missionary is eaten it rises in
pious indignation and despatches an army
which hangs the perishing heathen right off for
his iniquity, and annexes his country, and des-
patches his soul—if he hag a soul—to hell—if
there is a hell. Then the army comes back,
and when the nation hears that they are starv-
ing its pious fervour rises to fever-heat, and the
police nobly run the veterans in for vagrancy,
and the Church wakes up in a blaze of holy in-
dignation and supplies them with tracts in gaol.
Also, a subscription is raised, and somebody
embezzles it; Now and then, too, some paper
like the famous Pall Mall Gazette unearths a
great national infamy and publishes it in all its
unclean details, and the piety of the Empire
gets up on its hind legs to such an alarming
extent that twenty-four streets are blocked by
the crowd which is rushing to buy the story.
Or else the country sends out a pious fanatic
like the famous Gordon to carry the balm of
a spiritual Gilead into the dark places of
the earth, and that apostle in a coat of mail
with an explosive tail proceeds to whop the
tribes who refuse to listen to his message, and
the balm of Gilead blows up and kills every-
body in sight. And again the sympathetic
nation learns that some 3,000,000 of its own
brothers and sisters are living in chronic star-
vation, and in obedience to the divine law of
charity it resolves to chuck them out into a far
country, and the inhabitants of that country
generally reply that they will see all Britain
hanged first, and much trouble ensues. The
British nation is sincerely and consistently
pious, and that is just what is the matter
with it, for its piety generally kills somebody,
and the good tidings have a tendency to explode
and lift the roof off.
The contemplated introduction to Queensland
of cheap Italian labourers as substitutes for the
Polynesians is not likely to commend itself to
the democrats of the Northern Colony. The
contention of the white workers has all along
been that unless sugar-growing can pay for its
production on a similar basis to wheat-growing,
wine-growing, gold-mining, timber-getting, and
the other thousand and one budding resources
of a young country, it had better be given up.
The sugar-planters, on the other hand, falsely
allege that their industry gives direct and
indirect employment to 50,000 white men, in
consequence of the efforts of from 8000 to 9000
subsidiary coloured workers —blacks and
Chinese, &c. But even if this were the case,
the white workers would prefer a smaller
amount of employment to be performed ex-
clusively by white men. In the black-labor
districts the frequent outrages by kanakas, the
drunken street orgies, and the Chinese fan tan and
opium dens which spring up for the allurement
of the South Sea Islander, have long been a
menace and a terror to the white residents ;
the lock-ups are full of “ the cheap and
reliable,” and the Police Court exists chiefly to
right the wrongs inflicted on or by him.
Hence, at the present stage, the white worker
has determined to rid himself of the incubus
once and for ever. The sugar-planter has
received more than his due meed of considera-
tion at the hands of his country, and his
industry has been, from time to time, the sub-
ject of more legislative pampering than any
other private enterprise. He has had Kanakas,
Cingalese and Javanese specially indented for
him ; £50,000 of State money irretrievably lost
in a silly Central mill experiment on his
behalf—and all within the space of ten years.
The introduction of Kanaka labour will cease
by law at the end of the present month, but the
planter may use such labour as he has on that,
date for a further term of from one to three
years. That will give him ample time to make
some fresh arrangements. The “Italian”
scheme, however, will prove a certain failure,
and no one knows this better than the planter
himself. The best plan, and the only one which
possesses the possibilities of success, is for the
planter to make up his mind to the employment
of white labour, either upon a co-operative or a
contracting basis. His graceful acceptance of
an inevitable situation will do more for the
Queensland sugar-planter in the present crisis
than any amount of futile “ kicking against the
pricks.”
.+.
Alfred Bennett prints in Sydney Evening
News a most interesting article (nearly a column
long) about a prize-fight which took place in
—New Jersey!—between “twolovely daughters
of two prominent and wealthy families,” who
“ stripped off to a fighting rig” to square their
little differences, and whose ‘ ‘ well-rounded
forms became a mass of bruises and blood.”
Alfred tells us that when the combatants met
to fight about their man,
A modest girl gasped and said: —
“ You are not going to take off everything, are you ?”
“ Why, of course,” said Minnie. “ Don’t be silly.”
And they did, down to the waist.
The boys who were peeking blushed.
Then Alfred goes on to say that in the ring
Mabel led off first with a blow straight from the
shoulder. Minnie dodged this and let fly one in return
with her right. It did not land, for Mabel got away too
quick. There was blood in the eyes of both girls and
they struck out viciously. Blow followed blow, and the
girls began to get winded. Time was called and they,
retired to their corners.
When time was called again they stepped up briskly
and went at it hammer and tongs.
They punched each other’s fair shoulders and breasts
for 27 rounds without drawing blood, and then they got
mad and clinched. They clawed and scratched and pulled
out hair. Two tigresses could not have been more
wicked. The air was full of black locks and golden
tresses, and blood was flowing in little rivulets down a
white background, &c., &c.
Well, well ! What curious things some news-
papers have to do to get a living in these dull
times !
+
Perhaps the most remarkable feature of the
late strike in Queensland was the determined
manner in which the entire Press of the pro-
vince endeavoured to “ down ” the men. Even
now the men cannot understand the riddle,
simple though it be. The fact is, the Brisbane
Courier dominates the provincial press ; it
supplies over two-thirds of the press telegrams,
and thus tinges the opinions of its constituents
on all questions, political, economic, or social.
The late Thady O’Kane’s wired remonstrances
to this kind of thing were characteristic and
funny.
—* ♦
Profound slab of thought from the S.M.
Herald :
The efficiency of the public service is not promoted, bub
is likely to suffer, when deserved promotion and the
recognition of merit are made subordinate to favoritism
or political influence, or mistaken belief that it is neces-
sary, in filling the best places, to look abroad and appoint
unknown men.
This is a great question, but, as usual, the
Hei iald takes a purely superficial view of the
subject. The real danger lies in the circum-
stance that favoritism, or political influence, is
exercised in a manner that is calculated to
deteriorate the moral atmosphere of the subject,
under the agency of an erroneous conviction
that some unspecified individual ought to receive
considerable remuneration at frequent intervals
without performing any adequate exertion to
counterbalance the unwonted exuberance of his
honorarium, thereby leading to a morbid con-
dition in which the principal labors of the
department have to be executed by persons who
are unjustly deprived of any reasonable
pecuniary compensation for the abnormal wear
and tear incident upon the situation. Con-
sequently, the latter class, in the absence of any
adequate prospective increment, fails to develope
and manifest that intelligent interest in problems
of administration which would characterise
their proceedings under the influence of more
favourable surroundings, whereby the inherent
abortiveness of existing arrangements becomes
still more strongly accentuated. We now pro-
ceed to take a well-earned rest.
When the Assembly at Adelaide proposed to
congratulate West Australia on the introduc-
tion of constitutional government there was one
dissenting voice—only one. One Tomkinson
rose and stated in a thick, fat voice that there
was nothing—absolutely nothing—to congratu-
late about. Government by the people, he
said, was a failure, and liberty wasn’t up to
much, and elective parliaments were a God-
forsaken contrivance; and then the old man’s
voice faltered, and he dropped a tear over the
memory of the days that are gone —the simple,
primitive days, when Britain simply sent out a
governor, and a judge, and a hangman, and a
great, brawny, upstanding gaol-flogger, and
these four ran Australia among them. Where
had that quiet patriarchal age gone to, Tomkin-
son wanted to know, and what had the world
got in its stead? Practically nothing. Religion
had gone to blazes, and low, common people
went fooling with afFail's of State, and nobody
respected anybody, and the masses weren’t
kept down as they ought to be, and nobody was
flogged half so much as he needed to bring him
to a due sense of his inferiority. It was an age
of sin and license, and devoid alike of order and
veneration, and when it was proposed to con-
gratulate an adjoining colony because it had
also cast off all wholesome restraint, his voice
—the voice of Tomkinson —would be lifted in
denunciation of the unholy proposal. And then
the old man sat down heavily in the dust and
refused to be comforted.
The Recorder of Portsmouth, England, has just
sent a woman who stole a blanket, the property
of her mother-in-law (and pawned it to get
food), to gaol for five years; and has given
another woman, 65 years of age, seven years’
penal servitude for stealing a second-hand shirt
valued at Is. 6d. Sir William Hardman, for
20 years chairman of the Surrey Sessions, has
just died, and has no doubt been received into
Heaven with great applause. He sent 777 per-
sons into penal servitude ; the aggregate total
of the sentences imposed was 5,826 years, or an
average of 7J years each ! On June 6, 1871,
Maria Thomas, aged 54, was indicted for steal-
ing 41b. of beef, value Is. Bd. The accused,
who was a married woman, and the mother of
10 children, had been twice previously con-
victed, once for stealing a piece of bacon value
35., for which she was sentenced to four months,
and next, for stealing a shirt, value Is. 3d, to
12 months. These convictions were duly
proved before Sir William Hardman, who
sentenced her to seven years’ penal servitude,
and seven years’ police supervision. Her hus-
band committed suicide a few days after the
trial. At the same sessions, a lad of 18
(whose parents had both been convicted)
was indicted for stealing a metal watch-
guard, value 3s. The only “previous con-
viction ” against this lad was four years’
detention in a reformatory school, and with
tears in his eyes he pleaded for mercy and an
opportunity of “ turning over anew leaf.”
Sir William Hardman told him “he had
heard such tales befox-e,” and sentenced him
to seven years’ penal servitude and seven years’
police supervision. The barrister who defended
the lad remarked, “ He’s a boy, my lord.” “ I
do not need to be reminded of that, sir,”
answered Sir William severely, and the
counsel collapsed. Hardman gave a servant
girl 20 years of age 10 years’ penal servitude
for receiving, as a token of affection, a ring
which her lover (a burglar whose occupation she
did not know, so far as the evidence disclosed)
had stolen. It is almost a pity that a man
capable of such infamous cruelties should have
been allowed by those whom poverty drove to
the commission of petty thefts to die in his bed.
W. H. Groom has got the sugar-planters
of Queensland collectively “on their ear” by
stating that the 55,000 acres in that colony
devoted to cane-growing are not under cultivation.
During the general election of 1880 Parnell
put forth powers of endurance and hard work that
astonished those who came in contact with him.
At that time ‘ ‘ Tim ” Healy, a perfectly unknown
man, was his private secretary. During the
crisis of an election in a Southern constituency
Parnell was working with the local committee in
the small hours of the morning when Healy
entered the room where they were, completely
weary after a long day’s work. Parnell had been
urged to lie down on a sofa in the room and take
some rest. He was about to do so, but seeing
Healy’s fatigue made the latter occupy the sofa
instead. As the morning advanced the weather
became very cold. Then Parnell, excusing him-
self, rose from the table where the committee was
at work, and fetching his great ulster, folded it
ax-ound the sleeping form of his secretary. He
tlxen returned to business. Healy owes much
more than this to Parnell, wherefore his recent
conduct somehow looks ugly.
The N.S.W. Labour Commission will be a
huge and costly farce. Its appointment was
Parkes’ method of temporarily pushing an in-
terminable question out of the political arena.
The cunning old man offered to pay out of the
Treasury those members of Parliament engaged
on the Commission, if the Opposition would
assent; but the bait, the acceptance whereof
would have placed a number of Oppositionists in
the pay of the Government, was declined. Dr.
Garran, ex-editor of the S.M. Herald, is presi-
dent, and remarks that, as the Commission is only
to be in existence three months, it can’t possibly
get much information from abroad, and so must
fall back on the books locally available. The idea
of a dozen or more commonplace persons, seven-
eighths of whom couldn’t think in a straight line
for two minutes upon any mentionable subject,
settling a question as old the world, is too
ludicrous. The Bulletin’s recommendation is
that the Commission be squashed at once, and
tlxat Dr. Garran be asked to write for publication
a leading-article on the subject at a cost not
exceeding three guineas.
Surgeon Beaney (how that glittering
gentleman has dropped out of notoriety!) face-
tiously told the Melbourne Charities Commiss ; on
that the knife-practice of medical students on out-
door hospital patients might have a possible ten-
dency to thin out the ranks of unemployed. Kill
and cure them, like porkers.
In his old age Chief Justice Lilley, of
Queensland, is becoming a powerful advocate of
temperance. Temperance, as Judge Lilley under-
stands it, doesn’t mean teetotalism. It only
means adapting the length and strength of your
potations to the hardness of your head. Lilley’s
head is made of chilled nickel-steel.
Griffith and M‘llwraith, Queensland Coali-
tionists, are both very fond of Scotch whisky.
Griffith, however, being a spare man of cold un-
emotional temperament, can stand it a great deal
better than Mac., whose liver occasionally makes
him sit up. On no festive occasion has Sam.
Griffith been observed to turn a hair.
The criminal libel-suit instituted during
the late strike by Parson Brentnall, of Brisbane
Telegraph, against Mabbot, Secretary of the
Federated Wharf Labourers’ Union, bids fair to
fizzle out, as the Crown declines to bear the cost
of prosecution, and the Rev. Brentnall himself
loves money just as well as he loves revenge.
H. Vincent West, who acted as agent for
the Halles, is a son of the famous Quaker-Chartist
lecturer, Henry Vincent, editor of the Bath
Vindicator, who all his life, with voice and pen,
fought the battle of radicalism, and suffered im-
prisonment for upholding principles that to-day
are, almost without exception the law of the land.
The oldest pensioner of N.S. Wales has
just died, in the person of ex-trooper Thomas
Bevan, who, since the Ist July, 1850, had drawn
sixpence per day, or £9 2s 6d per annum, in
recognition of his old-time service. Now that
Bevan has departed, the oldest pensioner on the
list is ex-trooper Edward Wilson, of Penrith,
who for almost forty years has drawn £l4 8s 3d
per annum.
Years ago Jack Annear, of Maryborough
(Q.), was a contractor on the Gympie railway,
and the employer of G. S. Casey, the present
organiser of the Queensland Labour Federation.
Casey now twits Annear with having paid him
2s. a day extra to make the pace hot for the
other men in the same gang. Annear gives the
retort courteous by saying: “That shows you
were always a blanky dog !” Yet Annear still
travels on the Labour ticket when he can.
Henry Varley and L. L. Smith are likely
to get to legal fisticuffs. Last week Varley stuck
up on the window of his Collins-street office a
written statement about L.L., which was torn
down by an attorney, presumably Dr. Smith’s,
but Varley posted the statement again, inside the
glass, and it has been up several days. It is
about a young fellow who paid L.L. £l(>, alleging
he got no fair return, and L.L. wanted him to
apply a certain test which Varley objects to.
May Jordan, the young, refined and well-
educated woman who has undertaken the
organisation of the female workers of Brisbane, is
a daughter of the late Henry Jordan, ex-Minister
for Lands. Since she engaged in her present
work, Miss Jordan has received the cut direct
from many of her old “friends,” who vilify her
in the most unmeasured terms. Still she perse-
veres, and ; notwithstanding present opposition,
will certainly succeed in realising what she deems
to be her mission.
Froude’s “ Life of Beaconsfield,” 260 pp.,
is just out. An interesting part is about Mrs.
Willyaras, a little old Torquay widow, who left
Dizzy enough money to buy Hughenden Manor.
He first met her at the Crystal Palace in 1851,
when she slipped a note into his hand. ’Twas a
£IOOO-oheque, though it remained neglected in his
coat-pocket for weeks, as he thought the woman
was “balmy.” Afterwards she became the chief
friend of Mr. and Mrs. Disraeli, and Dizzy wrote
her many charming letters.
“ Bob ” Philp, junior member for Towns-
ville in the Queensland Assembly, was a clerk in
the Brisbane firm of Bright Bros, less than a
dozen years ago. Thence he went north to
James Burns, a Townsville grocer, and finally
bought out his employer. Later on, Burns and
Philp again met and established the present
octopean concern which bears their names. Philp
is a self-contained and'shrewd business man, a
Freetrader and an ardent apostle of black labour.
Burns is simply a canny Scot who possesses the
national acquisitiveness in abnormal degree.
Together they have pretty well annexed N.Q.
Says Pall Mall ;
Lord Oarington has been an excellent and popular
Governor, with a tact and geniality which suited colonial
audiences to aT. But there is an amusingly latter-day
touch about the language in which at Wagga he has been
commending his successor to N.S. Wales. Lord Jersey,
according to Lord Oarington’s testimonial, is “honest,
straightforward, conscientious, filled with energy, and
full of the wish to do what is right.” Then comes the
popular touch. “He has also,” declares Lord Carington,
with empressement, “plenty of money and not one atom
of ‘side.’” The colonial Governor fin de siede (it’s no
use trying to pension off that phrase till a.d. 1900) has
but one ambition, that it may be written on his tomb—
HE HAD LOTS OF MONEY
AND NOT AN ATOM OF SIDE.
Crick has again been triumphantly re-
turned to the N.S.W. Assembly. No other result
could be expected from a contest in the bush
between a bright and eloquent, however violent,
young man, and a prosy dullard, however vir-
tuous, who read his hustings speech to a dis-
gusted audience. The N.S.W. press howls for
Respectability, for what Crick epigramatically
calls “Purse and Belly,” in Parliament; but
rather than countenance the return of more -repre-
sentatives of that “pig-vote” class which has for
go many years swinishly supported Parkes through
thick and thin with such disastrous results to the
country, the bush electors are prepared to see men
enter the N.S.W, Legislative Assembly flourishing
the reeking, newly-lifted scalps of his enemies.
George the Fourth’s little Lady Jersey was
the chief instrument in working his marriage with
Queen Caroline, because she foresaw that this
woman would disgust him. Lady Jersey was
Caroline’s cicerone to England, and insulted her in
every possible way. George IV. became acquainted
with one of his other harem-scarems, Lady Hert-
ford, in an oblique manner. First of all he wanted
his mistress (nay, his wife), Mrs. Fitzherbert, to
be entrusted with the care of Lady H. 's niece, and
negotiations about this led to his falling into the
treacle, this villainous blow-fly. The above is all
frankly stated in Lord Holland’s Memoirs of the
Whig Party ; and then there was Lady Conying-
hara, that sweet toothpiece, who was said to be
not altogether unconnected with the appointment
of Sumner as Archbishop of Canterbury. All
that sort of thing is done now, Why? Because
human nature has changed. N.B. -- i The Peeresses
never angled for George IV. Jersey, Hertford,
and Conyngham were mysterious exceptions—
strange women who had got in. Yet none of
them had been opera-dancers or actresses.


[?]
840 Macquarie-street North, Sydney, Dec. 10,1890.
Mr Dear Moorabinda,—
It is being generally remarked in more than one
“kawliny” that the Australian-born wives of itinerant
Anybodies are ever so much more offish than their im-
ported ancestors. “A prophetess is not without honour
save in her own country,” and the woman who feels con.
scions that the entire assembly are well aware that her
aunt took in washing naturally behaves with an embar-
rassing hauteur, intended to keep dangerously-reminis-
oency people at an arm’s length, perhaps.
At a recent N.S.W. Cabinet meeting, it was decided that
an additional storey shall be added to Admiralty House,
North Shore, which is a charming little villa residence for
retired trade, but hardly imposing enough to house “ His
Excellency” Lord Charles Scott when he isn’t being
wobbled about on the mighty deep. The drawing-room,
for instance, isn’t large enough to swing a cat in. The
alterations will he effected while the family are in New
Zealand. I hope due care will be taken in the building of
it. For one thing, all dusty marine rules and regulations
should be hunted up, lest the wrongful slant of a shingle
or the unorthodox hack view of a brick should be
construed as a vulgar attempt to undermine the dignity
of “ His Excellency.” By the way, I see they are erect"
ing a vulgar hide-store right next door. This, I presume,
will involve a special Parliamentary grant for lavender-
water in midsummer.
It is well known that Lord Charles Scott would like to
tuck his fleet under his arm and found “ the Station ” in
Hobson’s Bay, or forninst the gasometer in the Yarra, and
leave Farm Cove and Potts Point in howling wilderness,
just to “learn us,” as it were. The Admiraless doesn’t
exactly throw cold water on hubby’s raging desire to snub
Sydney for refusing to let him hang from the chandelier
as patron-saint of the whole mob of that historic feed, and
unless the incensed deity—l mean the dignitary—lets his
anger cool, local belledom will have to fall back on the
vows of the bank dude and the declarations of the heir of
the wholesale drapery, just in the old sweet way.
“ Jarsey ” is learning that hanky-panky “ like a bird.’
At a banquet tendered him at Oxford the other day, he
said that he “ was not going into exile, but only to a part
—perhaps rather a distant part—of the same great
empire, peopled by men of the same race, with the same
kindly feeling and the same generous instincts.” Poor
Jarsey! and the worst of it is he will probably believe
himself a prophet, for the Government House haunter is
an adoring creature, who would walk on his hands if
Jersey locomoted in that manner, and who will model
himself generally on that imminent vice-regal strawberry
blond, perhaps to the extent of dyeing his flowing locks
terra-cotta. Jersey won’t have to consort with anything
very different from what he leaves behind him, except,
perhaps, that the “ English ” accent will fly off at the
handle in unguarded moments, and that he will have to
remember not to take it as a matter of course that every-
body has had a grandfather. The noble Earl left England
for Sydney on sth inst.
Jersey is to be a “conservative” Governor who will
draw the line, yer know. In which case an unalterable
parti carr6 will be the only possible festivity at Govern-
ment Owse.
Burlesques are not alvmys funny, by a long way, but
“ All Baba,” as rendered by the curled darlings of H.M.S.
Cordelia, at Sydney New Opera House, on 2nd inst., was
most amusing right through. Lieutenant AY. P. Hillyar
as Ali (and stage-manager, too) had an excellent make-up
—shrouding his fatal beauty under a false nose and an
egg-bald head—and acted and warbled with a winning
Snazelle-like solemnity which made an instant hit.
Lieutenant Woolcombe was Hussaiac, and had evidently
not plotted his face make-up for the allurement of the
stage - boxes, nevertheless he was a fascinating
villain, and he and Ali were a brace of loveable
suspicious characters, without whom the entertainment
had fallen very flat W hen either of them launched out
on one of the innumerable topical songs and parodies—
.smartly localised here and there—one could hear a person
thinking out in the street the hush was so great, and the
applause they always received showed that the audience
was manually appreciative, even if it was more than
half feminine. There wasn’t a gal on the stage until the
last act (three somewhat wooden midshipmen playing the
Incidental ladies—Cogibaba, Mr. C. E. Carver, in pale-blue
Turkish bagleto being the girliest of the trio), and then
a round dozen of Sydney beauty—as ‘-‘guests, thieves,’’
&o.—danced the waltz cotillon-very correctly, the effect
being rather spoilt by one or two of the dresses, which
were scarcely festive enough, though Miss Broomfield’s
“ Dorothy ” frock was very fresh and pretty. The dance
was encored—why, though, did they go all through it
again?—and at the finish Ali and Hassaiac presented
“souvenir” sprays of roses and ferns to the dancers, who
will doubtless cherish them fondly till—till the next war-
ship coihfes in.
The “ house ” was very good. The circle and stalls were
full, and Sir Charles -and Lady Scott occupied the front
seats in the circle. In the semi-gloom that prevailed qne
could hardly identify anybody, much less their outer
garments, but Lady Scott was distinct, in a black gown
with a cluster of flowers on the V-shaped corsage ; Miss
Ryan (her sister), in pale-blue silk with full sleeves of
chiffon and hoops of silver braid; Lady Innos (accom-
panied by Sir George lanes), in artistic sunflower-silk in
brown silk with panel of yellow silk, sleeves of yellow
chiffon, pearl necklace and diamond brooch ; Miss Lines,
electric-blue silk made en bebc; Miss Bight, who was
with a swarm of peop'e in the prompt d.c.-box, in black
with ruffles of melon-pink chiffon; Mrs. Gordon, in a
becoming gown of black lace lit-up by a scarlet fan 1
Lady Martin, in black rep silk, the square front filled in
with soft white muslin ; the Misses Martin, in simple
white frocks with belts of corded white ribbon and silver
buckles : Mrs. Forbes Angus, in black silk and laoe. Full
dross was worn in the reserved stalls, also, and, indeed,
the house was so altogether lovely that each of the gifted
officers must have smiled a gratified smile as he applied
an anxious eye to the peep-hole on the prompt side
before the curtain went up. The proceeds of this most
joyous entertainment arc to be (levoted to the Children’s
Hospital.
A( this ebullition of marine histrionics, a well-known
Sydney matron in the circle, desirous of changing to a
seat ahead, philanthropically refrained from brushing
past the knees of a dozen people, and took an airy short
cut across the back of the chair in front of her. It was
remarked that the hose were black, clocked, and well-
lit ting ; but it was all over in the twinkle of an eyelash.
And, speaking of the doings of the “dress"-division,
ever since the evanishment of Lady Carington, who
always gave the deserving a “hand,” a strong silence as
of yore has fallen over the circle, which presents the
puzzling anomaly of absolute boredom, combined, how-
ever, with a fixed intention to “ sit it out.” This in-
ter;sting phase of “dignified” social fiddlesticks is only
observable in its full beauty on a really “ fashionable ”
night.
On the heels of the disappearance of cosmopolitan Cora
will probably follow the abandonment of Potter manners,
lace to the knuckles, the scoop bang, draperies con-
structed mainly in the interests of lower outline. Society
will take to brushing its hair ; it will not say “ thart ” for
“ that ” nor “lomp”for “lamp.” It will not cultivate
an erotic underlip, it will not practise suggestive leers
with a hand-mirror, as I am told one devoted copyist of
the Potter’s meaning grin was, and is in the habit of
doing - . The reason why a certain set of women seize upon
the styles of a “professional beauty” like Mrs. B.P. is
because she is a success as sich, and they imagine that by
following in her wide footprints—while she Is the rage—
they may win admiration through the same exterior
methods. But they forget it doesn’t all lie in the recipe.
What is the use of the Potter snigger over bad teeth ? Or
the Nellie Stewart moue on a monkey mouth ?
It is most edifying to follow the applause bestowed on
the genius who plays the violin. He may evolve dainty
difficult melody—sweet birds full of “ technique’’—but
the public sits with idle palms until it hears something as
if it were giving the performer internal cramps, and then
it signifies its approval out loud. The frequency with
which he lets the really difficult movement slip and works
himself up into a frenzy over a showy musical catch-
phrase is one of the most interesting points about the
Philistine.
I am reminded that there is at least one Sydney artist
who must feel more at ease in public since the departure
of Lord Carington. The genius in question certainly
does wave to and fro like a reed shaken in the wind when
he is seated at the piano, but that was no reason why the
Baron should have invariably imitated him to the life for
the benefit—well, really, for the benefit of the mixed
audience, who generally kept an eye glued to the vice-
regal goings-on. And Lord O.’s engaging way of carrying
on a waggish conversation while the incensed genius was
punishing the ivories is another reason why the musician
doesn’t shed a tear over the memory of the Ist November.
The grand operatic festival given to Monsieur Deslouis
at the Y.M.C.A. Hall on the Cth inst., was attended by a
fair audience, mostly in evening dress - a German lady in
web-like white lace, with a trail of blush roses from the
left shoulder and a filmy scarf of white chiffon about her
shoulders looking soothingly dream-maidenish; and
Carrie Swain was there in blue silk with sleeves and ruffles
of blue chiffon. Monsieur Deslouis was in good voice and
got a “sympathetic” reception. Madame Kellerman and
Kowalski were brought back after their concerto on two
pianos. Mademoiselle Bestel—a pupil of Deslouis—made
her debut, and was gaspingly nervous ; and Van Iperen,
the blond fallen-from-the-skies sort of fiddler, kept up a
swaying motion all the time he was fiddling that made
your Sappho feel seasick. Both the lady-performers were
handed flowers with tri-coloured streamers—the gentle-
men getting their applause “ penny plain,” as usual.
We are in a hot summer, and so zephyrs, muslins and
prints will be the go. I can picture the happy smile
under the moustache of the benedict as he reads the sunny
prophecy—but let him smile on the other side of his face.
Proper print frocks are not cheap. It's over the “cut”
and the “ extras” and the finishing that the shillings run
into the pounds. She who likes to have her frocks as nice
inside as they are out goes in for silk-lined hems, even
though the garment is calico. I saw a very natty gown-
finished for a recent bride—which is an instance of the
way “it” mounts up. The material was china-blue
batiste with a white polka dot; the skirt plainly gored
with three tiny frills right round ; the bodice pinafore
draped over a yoke of shirred white mull; the gigot
sleeves slashed over at the elbow over white mull: a knot
of blue and white ribbons falling from the left hip. It
was very pretty—but so was the bill—four guineas ! To
give the skirt the proper clinging hang, the reckless
frockist had built it on a silk foundation.
With print frocks only the simplest head-gear will be
sported—a straw sailor hat with a plain belt of ribbon
according best with the style. Some of the sailor hats:
have roses or pansies or any large single flower placed at-
intervals round the brim, but the plain ribbon is the
neatest and most ladylike trimming. I saw a tiny sailor
hat the other day starred round with sunflowers.
A fair and fragile Melbourne young man had a dreadful
experience with his best girl the other day. It seems
that they had been parted for six long months, and a&
the weary days dragged by he felt that life without Fairy
was a useless thing and that he must have one more-
glance into her sunlit eyes if it cost him a month’s screw’
So he got a holiday and started for the back-blocks next-
morning. He was ushered into the boarding-house
sitting-room, and after a moment’s pause the door burst
open with a bang, and he understood afterwards his
darling had thrown herself into his hungry arms. He
didn't know it at the time, because she knocked him
heel over|tip over the centre table on to the cat, which
vanished up the chimney with a vindictive shriek,
and when he came to, his future mother-in-law was
bathing the bumps with arnica while the darling collected,
the broken china from the floor. She had put on seven
pounds of weight at that hotel and he wasn’t prepared
for it -that was all.
Which somehow reminds me of a butterfly youth who
once confided to me a sensational incident in his career.
It was cruel, but very human. He said ; “ I thought I
loved that girl, and when she first nestled her head on,
my shoulder, I said ‘ This is Heaven 1’ But after an hour
of the same position I began to get the cramps, and by
the time she had snoozled right up to my collar I felt as
if I would give a thousand pounds if she would only sit
up for a minute just to give me a chance to stretch my
arms.” Brutal—wasn’t if? But I should advise the-
fascinating creature who turns the scale at ten “stun”'
to paste this right in the centre of her looking-glass.
On dit that one of the most interesting things in this
interesting world is to see the amateur theatrical girl,,
whose fresco is an artist!.; triumph in the glare of the-
block, conic on to the stag a peifect guy with tomato-
cheeks and two layers of flour on her knowing little-
nose. Or else she pitifully asks somebody to do her face
for her—she really can’t manage it; “ you’ve no idea.
how unmanageable it is till you put it on, really ”—like-
wise the coarsely-" arranged ” eyebrows, and the blotched
lips. What a lot of science some women put into the
humbugging of their fellow-man !
The dual bill, a “Bed of Roses” and “ Elmine,” was
presented at .Sydney Protestant Hall on 3rd inst. by the
new "Irving” Dramatic Society for the benefit of their
coach, Mr. Fred B. Norton, who played Sir Guy, and was
the chief ray of hope in the mumbling, exasperating pro-
ceedings. Why amateurs act has never been discovered,
except they do it for the personal satisfaction they derive
of making a public exhibition of themselves. The new
Irvings made a two nights’ stand, playing “ Everybody's
Friend ” the preceding evening—and this budding amateur
tendency to create a bogus “ run ” to paper houses or
even empty benches is a great waste of time and energy.
In the case of the opera amateurs, who ran a week, they
hadn’t enough voice to sneeze with on the last night.
The final audit of the pupils of Herr and Madame
Kellermann at Sydney Y.M.C.A. on 2nd inst., was attended
by an immense audience—numbers being unable to fit in.
Mayor and Mrs. Burdekin presented the medals and the
prizes. Mrs. Burdekin wore heliotrope brocade and fine
white lace, and after the awards had been made, presented
Madame Kellermann with a gold lyre brooch set with
diamonds, from the pupils of the Conservatoire. Miss
Rose Masters and Miss Tompkins received the silver medal,
which had to be duplicated to meet the exigencies of an
unforeseen "dead heat,” and Miss Daisy Wildman and
Miss Leila Brown were certificate-takers on this occasion.
The latest decorative idea which has struck the girl who
has nothing to do but divert honest implements from the
path of duty, is to turn a warming-pan into a hall orna-
ment. It is polished all over till it shines like bronze,
after which the leather is bound about with straps of
parti-coloured ribbons like a maypole, which wind down
and fall in a shower over the brazen face of the “ subject.’
Then it is hung in the hal! with only one point in its
favour—namely, that it makes a very good gong.
Curly Potter and Brown Bellew finally farewelled
Sydney to an overflow ing sit-on-the-steps sort of house
on sth inst., when “ La Tosca” was the flourish. Bouquets
were plentiful—the nicest tribute being a basket of gar-
denias—and the wandering stars were recalled again and
again before Sydney allowed them to leave for the New'-
castle boat. But the deep-rooted conviction that nobody
but Kyrle or Cora would raise a furore in front led the
gifted brace to appear twice in answer to the tumult of a
house actually howling for Sass and only Sass. Which
was an appealing little touch of star human nature to
finish up with, wasn’t it ?
Yours affectionately,
SAPPHO SMITH.
The “ Old Man Plain ’’—Sir Henry
Parkes.
Lord Charles Scott doesn’t go to banquets.
No ; he stays at home like a good, little boy and
quaffs Marshall’s Tonic Nervine.
Parnell has one small crumb of comfort in
his present trouble. His amour was not a joint-
stock company affair, like Dilke’s, with a Prince
as President and a Duke as Chief Director,
Editor Bulletin. —Sir,—As you have
noticed my article in the United Service Maga-
zine, I have to request that you will correct the
following—amongst several others—typographical
error. I did not write “ who displayed their
nationality by plundering the Chinese shops on all
occasions,” but “on one occasion.” This correc-
tion will save, no doubt, a great deal of natural,
but misplaced, indignation.—Yours faithfully, H.
R. Nicholls, Hobart.
A working-man of advanced views, whom
we have every reason to consider an honest, sober,
and industrious man, as well as one possessed of
an unusual share of intellect, writes to The Bul-
letin that he has only earned £2 since March
last, though he has striven hard to obtain an
opening. He points out that he could act as time-
keeper, or cargo-tallyer, or in any kind of work
where bodily strength was not so much a deside-
ratum as discernment, precision, and punctuality.
We shall be glad to hear of work to suit him.
The conscientious Chief Justice Parley
doesn’t think that Mr. Want’s Sunday Bill
(N.S.W.) will have an un-Christianising effect
on the day of rest, and thinks such a measure
necessary. The present N.S.W. Chief Justice is
a queer mixture and a most uncertain personage.
He hails from the north of Ireland, and looks
like a Roman father. The Evangelicals, to whom
he has given so nasty a back-hander, must be
paralysed to find that he is as liberal on the
Sunday question as a Holy Roman father.
A Bathurst correspondent points out that
in a recent horse-stealing case, Regina v. Booth,
tried at that town by Mr. Justice Foster, the jury
were unable to agree, and, after repeated ques-
tionings by his Honor, were finally locked up for
the night. Before locking them up, however, the
judge, as reported by a local paper, said that
under the circumstances it would be politic for the
minority to respect the opinion of the majority, for
whilst they might hold conscientious opinions,
they might have erred in their judgment Our
correspondent rises to inquire whether this is trial
by jury ?
Things were lively on the Trangie (N.S.W.)
railway platform a few mornings ago, when Ryrie,
M.P., and Commissioner Eddy exchanged civili-
ties. “You are the most insulting man I have
ever met in New South Wales,” exclaimed the
Railway Czar. “And you,” retorted Ryrie,
“are the most neglectful.” Ryrie had good cause
to boil over, for 1000 bale s of wool were lying in
the Weemabah shed and no trucks could be found
to cart them away. That was not all, however,
for 30 wool-laden trucks were actually stuck up at
Trangie simply because the railway officials could
not find any ropes to tie the bales on.
“ Captain Arthur Moore,” says the Hawk,
■“who was last employed in the Medea, is going
to Australia on what will probably prove to be a
fool’s errand. Lately the colonists consented very
grudgingly to partly maintain a small local
squadron, but they made it plain that, in the first
place, no foe was expected at Sydney or Mel-
bourne ; and, secondly, that if the mother-country
thought differently, it was open to her to provide
defences. General Edwards, who has recently
returned from an official visit to Australia,
reported in effect that the country might be
•captured by anybody who cared to take the
trouble, but the Colonial Defence Committee,
which comprises some of the leading officials
at the Horse Guards, pooh-pooh that report; and
Captain Moore has been sent out in the hope of
concerting with the colonists a less sensational
scheme than would satisfy General Edwards. The
Australian policy is a thoroughly selfish one.
They know that England will not part with their
country, and will, if necessary, protect it at her
own cost ; and this being so, they decline to do
more than pay the trifle which they have already
■engaged to do. Let Captain Moore’s mission be
called what it may, it really is an attempt to get
the colonists to contribute more, and he is bound
to fail.”
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Theatre Royal. “The Silver King.”
Her Majesty's “Merry Wives of Windsor.”
Criterion “ Doctor Bill.”
Cyclorama Gettysburg.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess’s “The Gondoliers.”
New Bijou “ The Squire.”
Theatre Royal Grattan Riggs.
Opera House “Madame Angot."
Alexandra .... “Monte Christo.”
Despite its cleverness of book and sensa-
tionalism of scene, one is tempted now to think that
Jones and Herman were slightly overpaid when
they whacked the enormous sum they are said to
have received as their share of the profits of the
“ Silver King.” Staged as a stop-gap, .after four
rehearsals, it is fairly well played, all round, at
Sydney Royal, though it won’t stand comparison
with- the production of nearly six years past.
Laurence Oautley, who very much resembles a
Sydney pressman (when he wears a beard) who
once acted as secretary to G. 0. Miln, has a fine
voice and a good stage presence, and though
on Saturday night, he had to give most of his
attention to his lines, and could spare little for
“business,” yet gave a bright, manly and
pathetic reading that fetched tiie audience from
the first. But we don’t like his simulation of
drunkenness by walking as if his feet were
deformed. A voyage round the world hasn’t
toned down Greville’s fine owld Oirish accent, and
his Jaikes, creditable under the circumstances,
wasn’t improved by the introduction of stale
gags. Edward Sass’s “Spider ” is all right, and
Hans Phillips repeated his former success as
Corkett. Edwin Palmer made the fence, Coombe,
a Whitechapel Jew, but his performance was,
nevertheless, satisfactory. Nothing very good or
bad can be said about any of the other per-
formers, and the “Silver King” will be deposed
in favour of Toole on Thursday next (18th), when
the weather will be fine but frosty.
& * * *
On the last night of “She Stoops,” thegallery
of Sydney Royal was occupied by the Bank
Clerks’ Association and some friends. The young
money-changers kept fairly quiet during the show,
but sang lustily between the acts to the accompani
ment of their own band, and sent down a wreathed
basket of flowers to Mrs. Potter, who smiled on
them as widely as the proscenium would allow.
How is this sort of thing worked up, Tor this
theatre party was not by any means a spontaneous
tribute to the powers of a great actress ? On the
closing night of the season, accoi’ding to the S.M.
Herald, when the curtain fell on “La Tosca,”
La Potter and Bellew were “ called out no less
than six times.” As a matter of fact, they only
received one legitimate call, the others were un-
mistakeably for Sass, and they kept bowing their
acknowledgments to an audience that were deter-
mined to have him out, and would have afforded
the “ stars ” a show to take fifty - calls had they not
been eventually silenced by that actor’s appear-
ance. They have worked this little game success-
fully before, once with Edward Sass in “ Camille ”
at the end of the “gold” act, and once with
“Bob” Inman when he played Mercutio.
* * * *
The two first acts of “ The Merry Wives
of Windsor ” (Rignold’s version) have been welded
together by using the “cradle ” to haul on and off
an interior that intervenes between two big
“ sets,” and now the curtain falls finally at 10.30.
Some of the prudes who unblushingly sit out the
indecencies of comic opera or of an allegedly
classical play, have absented themselves from Her
Majesty’s during the run of Shakespeare’s cleanly
and witty comedy, averring that : “No, my dear,
for the sake of the girls, we won’t go, I hear that
the play is too, too, you know.” Poor, benighted
beings ! “ The Wives ” will run till Boxing Night
when “ Dick Whittington ” wifi be pantomimed
with, as everybody knows, Maggie Moore in the
name-part, her first appearance in pantomime in
Sydney ; Madge Seymour as Alice; Bessie Rig-
nold, Fairy Silvertone; Mabel Tracey, Ralph;
May Ellis, Tom Bowline ; Julia Phillips, Truth ;
Prances Hastings, Industry ; Frank Ayrton,
Sarah; Stirling Whyte, Fitzwarren ; 1 larry
Hoyte, Idle Jack ; Joe Tolano, Got ’em Bad ; •).
W. Sweeney, Capt. Kidd; Frank Harcourt, the
Emperor, and Mr. Leopold, Tom Cat.
* * -:K- -»
The second week’s “biz” with “Dr. Bill”
has panned out even more profitably than the
first, and Manager Magee nightly hangs out
“ House Full ” on the Criterion’s portals as
proudly as a Soudan goat-slayer pins on his
nickel-silver medal. Judging by these signs, the
merry medico could continue to prescribe for the
laughter-loving for at least another month, bui
will be removed at Christmas, when a swap will
be done with the Bijou, and the classical half of
B. and B.’s comedy company will open here in
“Impulse,” while the farcical crowd paralyse
Melbourne folks with “ Dandy Dick,” who will
be closely followed by “ Dr. Bill.”
* * *
The smallest and daintiest people in the
world, General and Mrs. Mite, are now showing
at Sydney School of Arts to million prices in con-
junction with Signor Ziska and Mdlle. Theo, the
conjurors (who appear in an entertainment entitled
“Prestissimo ”), and Mr. Cadzow, the well-known
vocalist.
* * » *-
Following as usual in the wake of Henry
Irving and Ellen Terry, Cora Potter and
Kyrle Bellew have_ started out to give drama-
tic recitals. Notwithstanding the fair Cora’s
prediction that as soon as they got rid
of “ that horrid company ” things would go
smoothly, their opening night at Newcastle
was a failure. Bellew’s opening speech was
guyed and a series of monotonous recitations so
palled on the mining appetite that Mrs. P.’s
announcement that those who did not like the
show could have their money at the doors, caused
a regular stampede. But Manager Twinning’s
motto was “hand bag” not “hand back,” and so
the malcontents returned to take the value of their
coin out in interruptions.
* * * 5K-
The members of Coogoe Aquarium Club
spent a pleasant evening there one hot night last
week. Swimmer Corbett takes a benefit on
Saturday afternoon, when Professors Seguy and
Schuch meet with the foils, and Seguy on skates
encounters with singlesticks an amateur on foot.
An aquatic carnival also takes place in the baths,
when all the champions compete, and some feats
will be performed under water by Messrs Walker,
Parkinson, and Corbett.
*'o
Jaques Ibbofct, having fasted away bis
abdomen so that his spinal column could be fel*


A G HOST
is not a photograph, nor a photo, a ghost but a good photo, is a
true reflection of the original. For high-art photos, go to the
Txmdon Palace of Art, 10 Park-street, Sydney. Country photographers' work from development
to completion executed at lowest price,. Bromide, a .peoiallty. Staff of art.rt, kept for working up.
Notice to Advertisers
and others.
OwiNQ to the unprecedented demand for adver-
tising space in the Xmas Edition of The Bulletin,
we are reluctantly obliged to decline any further
advertisements for that particular issue.
from the front, is doing his best to repair the
ravages of protracted abstinence by taking pep-
tonised milk in 2oz. doses every quarter of an
hour and occasional draughts of —but we aren t
going to advertise any quack medicine gratui-
tously, Ibbott’s receptions are well attended by
folks who didn’t care to see starve, but drop
in now to see him “ eat a piece.”
Fresh effects at Gettysburg Oyclorama
induce those to go who never went before, while
those who’ve often been now go the more.
** * *
Artistically, the Deslouis’ concert, at the
Y.M.O.A. Hall, was a great success. M. Deslouis
has a grand baritone voice, as most people know ;
the new soprana, Mile. Bestel, owing to nervous-
ness, did not do herself justice, and Van Ipereh,
the Dutch violinist, though not a Sarasate, gave
evidence of great ability. Mme. Gharbonnet-
Kellermarm and M. Kowalski also played, once
in concert.
** * *
This (Thursday) evening the vocal and
orchestral concert, organised by the ladies of
Sydney to discharge the liabilities of the guarantors
ef the late series of orchestral _ concerts, takes
place in Town Hall. Antonietta Link, Vanderyeer-
Green, and Olaudian Deslouis will amer. Rivers
Allpress plays the violin, Alexander Rea the
organ, and Hazon conducts.
** * *
“ Ld Fille de Madame Angofc,” being new
to half the population of Melbourne, crowded the
Opera House on Saturday nighty Time Was when
this most Parisian of operas reigned supreme ifi
its native country, and enjoyed the unique dis-
tinction of appearing at two London theatres
concurrently. But that was in the_ pre-Gilbert
and Sullivan period, when a little bright melody
Could earry a weak libretto, and the dullest of
gags passed fot a flash of genius. Modern audi-
ences have been educated to look for either smart
humour, keen satire, or, at least, a pleasant story
in comic opera productions, and so “ Madams
Angot ” goes slowly enough until the last act,
when the rival heroines invite one another to
come on and see which is the better cat, and the
curtains falls upon a general condition of moral
shadiness. If a better translation of the
original French libretto were given, it would
doubtless be found too Zolaesque for this pure
hemisphere, which has always taken kindly to
the aforesaid quatrel-scene, however. The salva-
tion of Saturday’s entertainment was a bouquet,
thrown bii to the strtge to be realistically fought
for by Nellie Stewart and Fanny Liddiard, who
tore the vegetables to pieces amidst thunders of
applause, and sent the audience home in a com-
paratively excited state. Otherwise no part of
the first performance, save only the Conspirators
Chorus, went as well as it will be going when this
appears in print, and perhaps the present rate of
“go ” isn’t sufficiently high to make* Angot a
teal successs The show seems to be clogged up
with music in which the principals are not at
honie. They sing trivial liiles instead of talking
them, and the awful necessity of catching Con-
ductor Plumpton’s wink as the signal to go fishing
for a note, seemed to oppress several souls on
Saturday. The whole of tho original music was
given for the first time irt Australia* to
advts. Some of it might slide back into obscurity
Without getting missed. Nellie Stewart makes
the most of the name part, While Fanny Lldaiarcl
plays Mdlle. Lange with a heap of dignity until
her blood gets up, and the fair pnma-donna
takes the starch out of her. Wood field,
voice fades apace, is likewise a free and
easy sort of Ange but regarded
as a Reactionary poet he doesn’t go far, judging
from the seditious song that Clairette sings.
When Larivaudiere offers Pitou some £ISOO tor
another song like that, he should take the money
and set up in the marine-store line, or something.
Snazelle, in the entirely heavy part of Larivau-
diere, is always artistic, but especially in the first
act. The others are about right, even young Jules
Simonsen being partially qualified to represent
Pomponnet, a man whose mission in life is to get
pushed over and requested to clear out._ Besides,
Bimonsen’s tenor is very, very sweet m a small
way. Two or three scenes are handsome, the
opera’s reputation for effective dresses is quite
maintained, and the chorus ladies stand around
rind do nothing ill particular with all imaginable
uccess.
** * *
Other Melbourne theatres are just putting
in their time quietly until Christmas. Large
bare patches are apparent at the Princess * so
“ The Gondoliers ” may find themselves called for
before Boxing Night, when “ Marjorie,” on the
Usual unprecedented scale, &c., is certain to be
produced, anyhow.
** * £
The hypnotic drama died a gruesome death
at the Alexandra, its end being probably hastened
by a couple of alleged funny characters. On
Saturday night they filled up the gap left by the
late unlamented with “Monte Christo, a large,
imposing romance which flourished exceedingly
last season. The Count is one of Dampier s best
characters, and in it ho sticks to a fell purpose like
a majestic limpet until everybody but himself and
girl is either dead or awful near it. One weak
spot in the story is the old Abbe Somebody, who
doesn’t creak in his joints like Fred. Leslie used
to, and takes, moreover, a bit too long to die.
* Hi * *
“The Jilt” has not proved a big bonanza
at the Bijou. It is a bright comedy indeed, but
too impudently idiotic, in one 6r_ two places, tor a
sporting community. Besides, it has three long
waits between acts. The Bijou orchestra is far in
front of the average lot of fiddlers engaged to
produce slow music when anybody is dying or
making love (you find the same strains played in
either case), but people don’t go to see play in
Order to hear an orchestra, and the Bijom waits
are getting a bad name out of doors. On Satur-
day they revive “ The Squire ” for six nights only.
*****
At the Royal, where business has mended
somewhat, “The Irish Detective” started to
stumble around and tell the company he was no
snoozer last Monday night, by which time
“ Arrah-na-Pogue ” had to come off along with
Maggio Moore, who was due in Sydney. Any-
how, “The Irish D.” had to pop up sooner or
later. He is part of Grattan Riggs being, and
when that noble institution dies—supposing ,he
eandie—and St. Peter says, “Who are you? it
is ten to one that Riggs will fire off sixteen
revolvers at the cherubim and shout, Iracey the
Detective!”
** * *
Nothing else in the show-line is doing
better than tho Fasting Man at the Waxworks.
Up to last week Felix Tanner was looking bronzed
and happy, and it is evident that ho will want a
quantity of killing. He likes the business, ac-
cording to his own account, and has once fasted
a» long as twenty one days for the mere love of
not having anything to eat. Life at the Wax-
works suits him, except on Sundays, when
things are very quiet. It is an old belief that
wax figures go on the spree after closing
time, and get so drunk amongst them-
selves that the Royal Family turn into
the Chamber of Horrors by mistake, and Madame
Rachel substitutes herself for our Sovereign Lady.
But Tanner, finding them ghastly fixtures at
Kreitmayer’s place, complains that the pertinacity
of their Sunday glare makes him feel bad. Mean-
while, the ladies have taken this interesting young
man very much to heart. They load up his table
with bouquets from the florists, and gaze upon
him from afar off, remarking that they would give
anything in the world to be allowed to feed him
with a spoon, poor dear, Woman’s love is an
eccentric sentiment entirely,
** * *
In certain jiarts of Germany, according to
the boast of a Berlin paper, instead of heaving
bouquets at a favourite actress they throw useful
and sensible articles that will come in handy in
after life. There is a good deal to be said for this
practice. Flowers are beautiful enough for the
moment, tho’ next morning they are faded and
gone, but when the house rises in a burst of
enthusiasm and throws a bedstead and a quantity
of bedding, six chairs, a dining-table, a chest of
drawers, and a large quantity of underclothing to
the idol of the day it is a great deal more to the
point, and if it isn’t quite so beautiful that doesn’t
matter much.
** * *
The Adelaide Royal, after being closed for
a few nights, was taken possession of by a com-
pany of amateurs who produced for the first time
a comic opera called “ Sylvia,” the joint effort of
two local gentlemen. The amateurs acquitted
themselves fairly well, and were well patronised.
The music of the opera, which is the composition
of Cecil J. Sharp. 8.A., is tuneful and bright, but
the libretto by Guy Boothby is certainly not up
to much. Mr. Sharp takes the score to London
and expects to part with it there. The Phono-
graph has done very well in Adelaide, and the
Oyclorama with its picture of “Jerusalem at the
time of the Crucifixion ” has, so far, been an
enormous success.
A TOUGH QUESTION.
MISS GEORGINA MATSON.
MR. PAUL KITZ.
Of course this maid, she has attained majority,
Can wed without her guardian’s authority ;
But if she does—why, then they can deprive her—
So runs the will—of every blessed stiver.
And so the stricken dear must needs go weep,
For if her money she prefer to keep
(Her’s is indeed a melancholy case),
Her lover she for ever must deplace.
But if, on t’other hand, she should decide,
In spite of fate, to be her Kite's bride,
Her guardians’ opposition she can euchre
By giving up to them her filthy lucre.
A very nice dilemma. Will she spurn
The man for whom her very soul doth yearn ?
Or will she chance those fear-inspiring tits
With which her guardians tax the loving Kitz ?
Poor, persecuted fair, what will she do?
What line of conduct will she now pursue?
Her choice (and let us hope it won’t be rash)
Is limited to either love or cash.
Poor girl! poor girl! it is a dreadful strait,
Her final choice we anxiously await.
Which will it be ? Tis difficult to say—
Will love or filthy lucre win the day ?
At Poverty Point,
Aft Ao® notice of Dampier’s latest said: “The
audience, instead of the well-known play of vice and
virtue, are treated to a practical demonstration of the
powers of hypnotism. Whether the new theory is
tenable from a pecuniary point of view remains to be
proved.” In which passage readers of the Age seem to
be treated to a practical demonstration of journalistic
sound without a dashed bit of sense in it. In spite of its
effusive loyalty, the Australian press is apt to be shock-
ingly un-English.
Grade MArner is touring the English provinces in
“The English Rose,” whilst dear papa is engaged at
Drury Lane. We thought Gracie was never to act except
under papa’s watchful eye.
Old Sadler’s Wells Theatre, where Phelps played the
legitimate drama and many good actors served their
apprenticeship, is now in course of being converted into
a music-hall. The licence to get drunk on the premises
has been granted.
A French girl is making a sensation at the London halls
by waltzinsr and walking up a flight of steps on her hands,
instead of her feet.
Santley sa3 r s he hopes to return to Austrajia before ‘ he
grows tqo old to amuse the musical public.
Sharpe, composer of “ Sylvia,” was formerly_ associate
to Chief Justice Way, and Boothby, librettist, is a clerk
in the corporation offices, Adelaide.
Adelaide people have been holding off St. Maur and
Christie Murray, in anticipation of seeing the Potter-
Bellew combination in Hero and Leander. Now they feel
mightily disappointed because they arc only to have
dramatic recitals.
Mrs. Lyne-Stephens, of Lynford Hall, Norfolk, who has
just built a new R.O. church at Cambridge, at a cost of
£lOO,OOO, is identical with no less a personage than Mario
Louise Duvernay, the old-time sprightlydanseuse favourite
of Drury Lane.
The fact that Mrs. Potter and her Bellew are about to
imitate Irving once more, by giving dramatic recitals in
costume, reminds us through the association of , ideas that
Fairolough has been giving Shakespearian recitals in
Maoriland, interspersed with songs by his wile, Elsa -May
The Sydney Owl Club went for a moonlight trip up
Middle Harbour by steamer one lovely night last week,
The music was good, the ladies charming, hut the whisky
was divine.
A Berliner named Kahn lately backed himself for
twelve marks to drink four quarts of beer and eat eight
pounds of sausages in ten minutes. He won the money
and a corner lot in the cemetery, for he broke a blood-
vessel just as the last sausage struggled out of sight.
Mrs. Langtry, a few weeks ago, starred at the Brighton
Theatre as Lady Clancarty, and the next company on the
boards was Belle Bilton’s (Lady Dunlo) with the “ Venus”
extravaganza. Lady Dunlo’s future title will be Lady
Clancarty.
The gentleman “newspaperally ” described as “the
late eccentric Duke of Brunswick” was the hero of the
drollest of murders. He courted Madame Methfessel,
wife of a complaisant comedian, but Cornet, another
actor, objected, so while Brunswick was embracing
Madame on the stage one night Cornet got the prompter,
in a joke, to ring up the curtain, displaying the tableau
to an excited audience, whereupon Brunswick drew his
sword and gave the prompter a death stab.
At the declaration of the (Sydney) Cook Ward polling,
Jim Bainford struck a “Berlud, lago !” attitude, and
exclaimed, “Tennyson was right! ‘The individual
Withers, but the world grows more and more.’”
Fred. Norton was not largely benefited by the “ben.”
tendered him hv the New Irving Dramatic Society, in
Sydney Protestant Hall, on two evenings last week. This
was not Norton’s fault nor that of the society, for the
performances, all things considered, were creditable, but
simply because no one goes to amateur shows except the
performers’ friends, foes and rivals.
ThP Phnnnfmnh Hid bio- business in Tasmania
The Phonograph did big business n D a.
Patti recently sent two boxes of cough-lozenges to
Gladstone.
The Launceston “ Muffs ” recently played “Time and
the Hour ” for the benefit of the Hospital Nurses’ Home.
Charles Fanning’s minstrel show does good business at
Sydney Protestant Hall on Saturday and Monday even-
inga. Other nights he goes round the suburbs.
°
The Turners, who have been playing at Newcastle and
Maitland, left Sydney for Hobart, the other day. Annis
Montagu’s voice has, it is said, completely returned.
“Daddy” Hallewell’s benefit takes place on Monday
next in Sydney Town Hall.
Herr Kretsohmann gives a concert on Saturday evening
in Sydney Town Hall, assisted by Antoinetta Link.
The Chicago Independent describes Organist Best as a
young player hailing from Liverpool, who lately visited
Australia to dedicate the new organ lately put up in a
church in Sydney, N.S.W. The whole paragraph is lovely,
but “ dedicate ” is especially good.
The Sydney daily newspaper “critic,” who stated that
Mrs. Potter was superior as Frou-Frou to Sarah Bern-
hardt, now states that She will not fail to take, ere
long, even higher rank on the stage than that now occu-
pied by her.” If she is better than Bernhardt, she has
already attained the highest rank possible up to date.
Slush-slinging is a ticklish trade ; when you’ve placed your
idol on the topmost pinnacle you’ve got to be careful.
Herbert Fleming says his chief reason in going home is
to place his two boys at the London college where he
himself was educated.
A magazine article recently appeared styled “ Have we
two brains or one?” Some idiot pestered Gilbert as to
what he thought of the matter. “Well, really,” said
Gilbert, “between you and me, I think we have only
one.”
Old Tom Phool, one of whose favourite jokes is to give
a cabman a penny and then apologise when stuck-up,
protesting he thought it half-a-crown, having propor-
tionately paid a Napier (N.Z.) cabman for a day’s riding,
was summoned and compelled to pay full fare and costs.
When he left Napier the cabbies rolled up and hooted him
out of the town.
Mr. Dowel, M.P., has given notice in the N.S.W’
Assembly that he will ask the Colonial Secretary certain
questions concerning the safety of Sydney Opera House
and the conditions of its license. We offer no opinion as
to the safety or dangerousness of the building, but were
Tommy Walker lessee, we would cheerfully wager our
skin on the result. Meantime the Premier has ordered
an inquiry.
Johnny Sheridan is leaving for Maoriland with “ Fun
on the Bristol.”
Walter Keen (Lance Lenton’s brother) is singing at
’Frisco Orpheum.
James F. Cathcart is now on the highroad to recovery,
and will soon be out of the doctor’s hands.
That sterling actor, J. P. West, will be tendered a
benefit by the N.S.W. Government Printing Office
Dramatic Society, on Monday, Dec. 15, when The
Farmer’s Story ” will be played.
James Anderson, the original Obas. Oourtley, is still
alive. He is over 80 years of age.
Madame Roland, at one time a fine pianiste and later
an actress, died in Sydney, the other day. Her con-
nection with the famous Goode will-case will be re-
membered.
When the jack-tars were playing “Ali Baba and the
thirty-nine Thieves,” at Sydney Opera House, the other
evening, the fortieth came along and went through their
duds carefully for their loose cash.
The Farren-LesUe Gaiety Company, owing to the illness
of Leslie, don’t visit America this season ; consequently
may not come' to Australia. Perhaps the St. John-Lonnen
contingent will come along.
“ Joe” Billin wishes it to be understood that his Victoria
Hall (Melb.) has been now running 26 weeks, and that the
ghost has never failed to walk.
On the day that Olga Nethersole sailed for Australia
her mother went to Plymouth to see her off. As the
ship sailed away the poor old lady fainted and .died inside
a few hours. Of course the actress could know nothing
of this until the vessel arrived at one of the ports of call.
Florence Menk-Meyer left Melbourne by the Oceana for
Europe.
Your romantic actress never wearies of love-making
Cleopatra Bernhardt is about to marry, it is said, Antony
Gamier, the hero of the beautifully-mounted but tedious
play by Sardou and Moreau, which the Hawk styles a
spectacular ballet.
Myra Kemble purchased Fred Broughton’s “Peer of
the Realm,” which has not yet been played anywhere as
well as “ Or. Bill.” She would have brought along “ Aunt
Jack,” the play Mrs. John Wood scored so heavily in, had
not the sum asked for the Australian rights (£1000)
seemed prohibitive. She was delighted with Sarah
Bernhardt, whom she declares to be “the only actress in
the world,” but was not impressed with the abilities of
her support. The Rosalind of Ada Rehan was to her a
revelation ; she had never seen the part properly played
before. Irving and Ellen Terry impressed her very
highly, but, like all other British “stars,” they are sup-
ported, outside the principal characters, by a lot of
mumbling, lisping, ambling inanities who have stepped
from the drawing-room on to the stage, and who simply
walk in a dreary, haw-haw, doncherknow, tired-to-death
manner through their parts. Miss Kemfile considers
Leonard Boyne, now playing in “An English Rose,” the
brightest juvenile on the British stage, and imagines that
William Archer is the most honest, outspoken, arid fear
less among the critics, though Clement Scott speaks very
bitterly of the modern “ cup and saucer” style of acting.
The first act of “ Man and Woman,” the play of Robert
Buchanan’s, in which the fair Myra played the lead, is
very strong, but the second resolved itself into a duologue
between a fossilised vicar and a chirpy curate as to the
indissolubility of the marriage-contract, and that damned
the show. Robert Buchanan is generally looked on as
one skilful at hashing-up dainty theatrical dishes, but who
cannot evolve anything substantial and yet tasteful from
his own inner consciousness. Edouin offered her the part
in “ Our Flat,” vacated at the Strand by the secession of
Fanny Brough to Drury Lane, but she refused it,
thinking the play likely to be a financial failure. She also
refused, owing to ill-health, an offer to play the adven-
turess (played by Alice Lingard) in “A Million of Money ”
now running at the latter theatre.
Myra Kemble wouldn’t advise any of the perfesh to go
to Britain. She says that lots of capable and clever
people there are only on salary three months in the year.
Manager Cromwell, of the Sheffield Theatre, whoso
death is just announced, was successively a workman, a
postilion (in the service of the Prince Consort), a nkge
boy, a travelling of the Post-office, a pantaloon
at Covent Garden, cutter-out to a theatrical costumier,
assistant stage-manager, actor, and finally manager.
It transpires that Fechter spent the first ten years of
bis life in England, and actually knew English before he
learnt French, consequently his “perfect mastery of Eng-
lish ” in later years was not miraculous, being simply (he
awakening of dormant knowledge,
Dion Boucicault’s death, it is said, was due to illness
induced by the labour of superintending rehearsals of “ A
Tale of a Coat,” on which was superadded the disappoint-
ment of its financial failure. At the time of decease he
was working on a play for Edward Sothern, and drama-
tising Bret Harte’s “ Luck of Roaring Camp.”
John Payne, the seaman who shot himself on the stage
of Sydney Royal, “ all for the love of a lady,” is now out
of danger. He says it was not altogether Mrs. Potter’s
acting that made him long for death, and that the lady’s
name who caused his hurt is Helen Blazes, alias Whisky.
Max O’Rell visits Australia in ’9l. The Bulletin will
fill him up with weird stories about Chinese cooks.
The “ Cleopatra ” of Sardou and Moreau differs widely
from that of Shakespeare, in that it has fewer scenes.
Cleopatra makes her first entry in a gilded barge that
floats along the Cydnus heralded by harp and song, and
the first curtain falls on Antony joining her therein/ The
next scene, laid in the palace at Raineses (a magnificent
piece of stage-work), shows Antony in the toils. The
third scene, that of the Palace of Memphis, with the pano-
ramic view of which The Bulletin has already spoken, is
finest of all. There Cleopatra hears of the marriage of
Antony to Octavia. The fourth act shows Antony’s
palace at Actium on the eve of the naval engagement,
and his jealousy of Cleopatra and Kephren. The con-
cluding scene is laid in the Queen’s gardens. Antony
staggers in stabbed, to die, and Cleopatra, putting an asp
on her bosom, expires hanging on his lips. Bernhardt’s
dresses are not dresses, simply “drapery so artfully
pinned about her slender form as to bring out the har-
monious lines of the body in their most perfect charm.”
Oh, Mrs. Potter, Oh, Mrs. Potter !
It is said that the Falk studio, Sydney, has disposed of
25,000 portraits of actors and actresses during the* year.
The new theatre in Castlereagh-st., Sydney, has been
successively named the Princess’s, Imperial, Grand and
Garrick. The last title is likely to stick. Why not the
Brooke, Lyster, or Coppin? Anything for the sake of
originality !
When Mrs. B. Potter heard herself talk from the lips of
the phonograph, she was mightily disconcerted, and said,
after a pause, “Why, it’s perfectly ridicTous. J don’t
talk like that.” And yet, in the immortal words of
Salem Scudder, “ The apparatus kyant lie.”
One of Paul Kite’s brothers is suing for a
divorce.
The Victorian railways were last year run
at a total loss of £221,000.
The new British magazine-rifle having
proved a failure by reason of its jamming pro-
clivities, it has been withdrawn from regiments
proceeding on foreign service, and the Martini-
Henry re-issued.
When Mr. Jack Want, Q. 0., addresses a
judge in one of the divisions of Sydney Supreme
Court, his loud whoop penetrates to the other
courts. One of these days a judge will send for
Mr. Want and ask him which court he is addres-
sing ; and Jack will impudently reply that he is
addressing all the courts,
Mr. J. H. Rainford, a new man, has just,
been elected to Sydney City Corporation by a.
substantial majority. Mr. Rainford promises the
electors a variety of things, and The Bulletin
will be inclined to judge him by the action he
adopts with respect to demanding full public
enquiry into the case of the Sewerage Board
official who is alleged to have been dismissed the
service for no other cause than that he treated the
property of Millionaire Mayor Burdekin as though
it belonged to somebody who was not a gilded
civic magnate. If the statements made by the
dismissed official, Macdonnell, are true —and the
latter has shown us testimonials as to character
which entitle to respectful attention any grave
complaint made by him—he is the victim of an
inexpressibly disgraceful piece of gratuitous
tyranny. The Bulletin holds no stock in Mr.
Macdonnell, but it asks the independent members
of the City Corporation to see that he is given
a fair trial on the charge upon which he is to be
deprived of his living.


A,SAUNDERS,
Watches and Jewellery are like good wives—they are
worth having,
end for Illustrated Price List. Post Free.
&13 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
(Nearly opposite Railway Station).
Factories: Liverpool and London, England.
£2 10s. English Lever, Two Years’ Guaranteed.
£3 10s. English Lever, “The Unequalled,” full cap.
£4 English Lever, “The Special,” compensated.
20 The Unequalled Keyless Watch. 20/-
Councry Residents and Visitors to Sydney call or send
to A. SAUNDERS, 813 George Street (nearly opposite
Railway Station), SYDNEY.
FOREIGN STAMPS.
We are prepared to pay high prices for old collections
of postage-stamps (state of book immaterial), or for any
old Australian stamps taken oft' letters dated 1850 to 1870. Look up your old letters, they may be worth pounds.
Stamps can be sent by post and will be paid tor by return mail. One hundred (100) different Foreign Stamps,
post free, 2S. Bd.; 50 different Australasian stamps (for sending to friends abroad), post free, ss. 2d. ; Stamp
Albums, with illustrated catalogues, post free, 6s. lOd. and 9s. lOd. Stamp price-list gratis. The Philatelic
Monthly, an illustrated Journal for stamp collectors, post free. 2s. per year ; single copies, post free, 3d. ;
correspondence invited.
D. A. VINDIN «9t CO., Foreign Stamp Importers,
9 and 11 Victoria Arcade, Elizabeth Street, SYDNEY, and at HAMBURG
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
WORTH IT’S WEIGHT IN COLD!
WATSON’S
EYE
LOTION
Coolin g an d S f re n gh
tbeuing KVIS M>-
TIOIV, for all disea
___ ses of the Eyes, more
particularly Sandy BIiglit,Inflairnnation of tbe Eye;and
Eyelids, Weakness of i Sight,&c.It gives
not only immediate relief 'inthe very worst
cns s of Sandy Blight' i bnt effects a P er '
mnneiit cure in a few I days.
l»ri:e, Is Cd iter Bottle.
PREPAR D ONLY DY
JOHN WATSON,
Chemist, 581 (ieorge Street, Sydney.
And Sold uy All Respectable Storekeepers.
Why Graveson Died.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
It was six o’clock on Sunday, 19th Decem-
ber, and the strong Barrier sun beat in at the
window of a bedroom in the Bromide Hotel,
Felspar-street, Argent-town. The rays fell on
two variously-shaped but generously-proportioned
figures broadly outlined by the sole covering of the
thin sheets made necessary by the molten atmos-
phere. The owners of these figures, filling two
small bunks placed one on each side of the window,
were the sub-editor and the mining-reporter of the
leading local daily. Sunday was their only “lie-
abed” morning, and they were enjoying it to the
full. One bed was short and stout —the other long
and spare. The sub-editor, a dumpy fat man all
arches and curves, had installed himself in the
long bed, and his broad body overhung the edge
of the mattrass and cast a shadow on the. floor.
As for the long reporter his attenuated legs pro-
jected fully 18 inches over the foot of the bunk
naturally intended for his chief.
They were having the usual Sunday consulta-
tion, the stereotyped subject being the proposition
of new methods for “ raising the wind.”
The sub-editor extended a hairy paw from under
the sheet and pushed along the floor towards the
mining scribe a tray on which stood two glasses—
empty;
“ Teddy,” said he, “go to the door and call the
girl for more whisky.”
“I can’t, really, old man,” answered the littera-
teur. “ I had Lord knows how much trouble get-
ting to bed last night without seeing the Gentle
Publican. He was on the war-path for me with
his bill.”
“ Oh, don’t mind a little matter like that. Thai
gay nonchalant air of yours will let you stand off
for a month yet.”
“Nonchalant air be hanged,” said the other,
modestly. “It won’t work, I tell you. You get
the drinks and I’ll sub. for you two nights next
week. I’ll square Billy. ’
(For the information of the uninitiated, it may
be stated that “ Billy ” was the editor.)
The sub-editor was unable to withstand the
allurement of two nights off. He got out of bed,
picked up the tray and glasses, and opened the
door. He cautiously shielded his unclad limbs
behind the panels, extended into the passage the
hand grasping the tray, like a hairy semaphore
stretched to the youthful drinker on the road to the
devil, and yelled, “ Maria—Jane —Sarah—what-
ever your name is—drinks ! ”
A herculean Irish girl answered the summons
and disappeared with the tray in the direction of
the bar. She returned a few moments later and
delivered two glasses of whisky to the dumpy
pressman who, nodding significantly, said, “In the
ledger,” and then vanished.
“Here’s luck, Teddy,” said the sub.
“Same to you, Charley,” echoed the reporter.
But by a strong effort of will he arrested the pro-
gress of the spirit, and said “Listen !” They
listened attentively, and heard the voice of the
landlord, who was bullying the Dutch-built Irish
domestic.
“What for do ye be lettin’ thim drunkin paper
min have more dhrinks on the nod for?” he asked.
“Bad luck to thim, they niver has any money,
and whin they’re not sphendin’ it, they do be
dhrinkin’ wid th’ shlate.”
“Here’s luck, Teddy,” said the sub.
“Same to you, Charlie,” echoed the reporter’.
And this time the whisky had an uninterrupted
flow.
The sub-editor broke the silence ensuing.
“Whom shall we stand off next ?” he enquired.
“ Don’t know —we’ve worked ’em all, ” responded
his henchman.
“ Um,” said the sub, and silence oecurrea
again.
Suddenly that staid and sober pressman (from
a pressman’s point of view), Mr. Edward Down-
thorne, jumped out of bed and executed an ex-
cellent imitation of the Dance of Death.
“ I’ve got it,” he said. “ Old Graveson.”
His room-mate gazed at him admiringly.
“ There’s not another man on the Barrier would
have thought of Graveson,” he commented ap-
preciatively. “Teddy, I always thought you
were a genius—now I’m sure of it.”
“ It’s as good as done,” continued Teddy. “ To-
morrow we’ll fall on him with the sword of the
Lord and of Gideon.”
They dozed again. The sub. was full of the
project. He sat up in bed and called to his
friend, “ Are you sure we can fix it ?”
But the literary and financial genius was
snoring.
* * #
Old Graveson was not old—only middle-
aged. He had arrived on the field some months
prior to the date of this incident, bringing with
him about £3OOO in cash, the purchase-money of a
livery-stable business, and his wife, a shrewish
young woman, who acted as clerk for her husband
and who took charge of the income and paid the
bills. Graveson had been rather “chummy”
with the two pressmen and they now deter-
mined to put his friendship to the test. But they
were ignorant of the existence of two important
facts —one was that Graveson was infernally mean
and the other that his wife was the cashier.
On Monday afternoon the sub-editor and the
reporter walked over to Graveson’s stables in
Beryl-street. They told a groom that they wished
to see Mr. Graveson and were ushered into a
dusty little office. About five minutes elapsed
and —Mrs. Graveson entered. This was some-
thing the borrowing ones had not anticipated.
Mrs. Graveson knew the pressmen by sight, as,
indeed, did everybody else. Most of the dwellers
on the field and its environs were steady, uncom-
promising South Australians—half Methodist—
half trader. They occasionally placed their
Methodism outside on the mat when it paid them
to do so, but they hung on to the more substantial
god of the Coinage with all their might and never
relaxed their hold. Consequently the pressmen
who had been imported from Sydney filled them
with supreme contempt and joy. Surprise and
contempt because the newspaper men indulged in
gorgeous “ bursts ” on Saturdays and drove buggies
on Sundays, and were penniless for the rest of the
week. Joy because they spent all the money they
could lay their hands on and were consequently
good for trade. So Mrs. Graveson knew her
visitors quite as well as the occasion required.
“We wished to see Mr. Graveson, madam,”
said the graceless reporter.
Mrs. Graveson was very sorry—her husband
would not be in town for two days.
“Never mind, then,” interjected the sub.,
“ we’ll call again.”
“I transact all my husband’s business,” said the
lady, whose ruling passion was curiosity.
The conspirators glanced uneasily at one
another.
“We really wouldn’t like to bother you,” re-
turned Charlie. “ It’s of no consequence. Is it,
Ted ? ”
“None whatever—the most immaterial business
in the world.”
“If it is so trivial, then, ’ insisted Mrs. Grave-
son, “ I can attend to it at once ; can’t I ? ”
The visitors thought that she couldn’t or
wouldn’t do anything of the kind, but they kept
the opinion to themselves. This inquisitive
woman would have to be stopped somehow.
An inspiration came to Downthorne. “ Fact
is, madam,” he said, in a confidential tone,
“ Our business is of a very delicate nature and
concerns Mr. Graveson only. To him alone must
our story be told. That’s so, isn’t it, Charlie?”
The sub-editor took his cue immediately.
“Quite correct, Mrs. Graves n. It is an
extremely delicate matter, and we could not think
of treating with a lady.” And here he looked as
'f the very idea of broaching the subject would
“FORGETTING HIMSELF.”
YOUNG WIEE: “The woman that nursed me when I was a baby called to-day.”
Old Husband (married the third time) : “Oh, is she still alive?”
wither him with shame.
“Is it so very private, then, gentlemen ?”
“It is, madam,” said the sub. “It is unfor-
tunate —very unfortunate—that we should have
missed Mr. Graveson to-day. But we members
of the press must do our duty. We cannot treat
with you, but as soon as Mr. Graveson returns I
hope the thing will be fixed for good.”
The two journalists bowed and walked out of
the office, leaving the inquisitive woman racked
with the pangs of unsatisfied curiosity.
# # #
That afternoon the editor of the afternoon
daily came into the office of the morning paper.
Downthorne told him of the visit to Graveson’s
office : “ We’re going to tap him when he comes
back,” he concluded.
The editor of the evening journal shook his head
sadly. “No good,” he said. “I’ve tried him my-
self. He’s as mean as his wife is jealous and in-
quisitive.”
“ Inquisitive and jealous, is she?” said the sub.
slowly.
# # *
On the following Friday Graveson sought
his wife’s visitors of the preceding Monday. He
button-holed Downthorne and unfolded a tale of
ill-usage.
“What was that business—that secret?” he
asked anxiously. “My wife says you have a
secret of mine. She wants me to tell her what it
is, and I can’t because I have no secret and she
thinks I can and won’t.”
Teddy answered with great dignity : “Sir, this
pretended ignorance will not suit me. I decline
to speak to you again or deem you exonerated
from any blame until I see an apology in all the
Barrier newspapers to the lady you have so grossly
insulted.”
Then he walked off, leaving Graveson gasping
for air. By and bye the livery-stable‘keeper re-
covered sufficiently to seek the sub-editor.
“ What does it all mean?” he asked the dumjjy
journalist. “What lady did I insult, and whom
am I to apologise to ? ”
“ Gravey,” said Charles, looking at him admir-
ingly, “You’re a born actor—you do it beauti-
fully. Whom did you insult ? Go off, you sly old
’possum, go off,” and the penniless pressman dug
Graveson in the ribs—the great Graveson, who
could have bought up half the journals and jour-
nalists in the country —for the Barrier had been
good to him.
The livery-stable-keeper could get no informa-
tion from anybody, and he went home no wiser
thair he had left it. He was foolish enough to tell his
wife that afternoon that he had been accused of
insulting some lady unknown—to him at any rate.
This, of course, aggravated Mrs. Graveson’s
curiosity. It did more. It inflamed her jealousy.
Henceforth Graveson’s life would be a misery to
him, she said. And she kept her promise to the
letter.
# * #
The newspaper-men rubbed on well enough
without Graveson’s money. They had instituted
the advance system in the office now, and regu-
larly mortgaged their Saturday’s salary on the
preceding Tuesday.
On June 11 last Graveson departed this life.
The medical man’s belief was that death had
resulted from a general decline of the vital powers.
But two journalists, now leading respectable, sys-
tematic lives, feel that the stain of the dead man’s
blood rests upon their souls. They know that
Mrs. Graveson worried her husband into his coffin
because he would not tell her the secret which was
not. Randolph Bedford.
Haytian proverb: “Never insult the
crocodile’s mother until you have safely forded
the river !”
Professor N. B. Webster gives the palm
to milk as a muscle-former, but recommends un-
fermented grape-juice as a heat-producing, fat-
forming food.
A Maoriland citizen has put his foot down
with sudden vigour on the electoral canvasser —a
nuisance that is in full bloom in the land of the
bulgy moa. He was digging in the back garden
when his wife informed him that a most respect-
able gentleman wanted to see him, and as he
wore an old pair of pants that were gone at the
knees, and a torn, slimy coat, and a broken hat,
he had to hurry inside and get into his clothes in
a surreptitious, underhand way before he could
confront the visitor. Also he had to wash himself
and hunt up a clean collar, and shine his boots,
and then when he went into the parlour he found
nobody there except an oily character who asked
him if he would vote for Smith. He pointed out
that Smith was a man of genius and a friend to
industry, and that Smith loved to grasp the
horny hand of the working man, and then he went
on to say that as a supporter of the great cause of
toil . At this point, however, he was put
under the pump by the choleric settler, and when
he broke loose and fled he looked like an escaped
cataract. And when he paused in his flight
to see what had become of his hat he discovered
that the infuriated voter was jumping on it.
Sammy Jones, the American evangelist,
recently enquired in church: “Is there a man
present who never spoke a cross word to his
wife?” The silence was oppressive; no one
moved till a round, good-natured looking man got
up. “Thank God!” exclaimed Sam, “there is
one man who never spoke a cross word to his
wife !” The good-natured man smiled a fat, bland
smile and said : “No, air, I never did. J’m a
bachelor.” Then he put on his hat and calmly
walked out of the door.
A. Tuscan poet has just published a small
volume of poems, written, he asserts, in every case
by the fitful light of errant fireflies. Swinburne
declared that he performed a similar feat in the
case of one poem, and Gerald Massey, not to be
outdone, wrote a poem by the light of a glow-worm
that crawled slowly over the paper. But there’s
nothing in all that! The London correspondent
of a Sydney evening paper writes his spicy
divorce-case notes by the phosphorescent glimmer
of a well-kept cod’s head, and our best bush poet
can see to shave himself by the glow of his own
grog-blossoms.
Woman.
Eight hours work, eight hours sleep, eight hours
play, that is the cry of the mechanic of to-day.
We however, have no sympathy with such cries,
we do not believe in men who want to work but
eight hours and keep their butchers, bakers,
grocers, chemists and even wives at work from
twelve to sixteen hours daily. Wives’ lives now-
a-days are too frequently lives of drudgery. Up
at 5 a.m. to get her husband’s breakfast, then
children to wash and despatch to school, then
dinner to prepare, and so on to ten at night, one
continual round of work, wash and worry. Is it
any wonder that they are prone to early decay
and premature physical decline ? It is to be
expected that they would be specially susceptible
to anaemia, indigestion, liver complaint and head-
aches. Their mode of life and long hours indoors
is almost sure to induce such diseases. On account
of the duties nature has imposed upon the fair
sex, great care should be taken of their physical
health; on the first approach of weakness or
debility of any kind, a course of Clements Tonic
should be taken. Eor female complaints Clements
Tonic is a specific, it regulates the several func-
tions of the organs of importance, it strengthens
the blood, nerves, heart and brain. It fortifies
the system against disease by enriching the blood
with its natural constituents to repair the waste
and loss sustained through the various changes of
condition the female life experiences. Clements
Tonic should be taken at all critical times ; as it
contains the material essential to the female
physical organism, it must be effective. Of this
there is no doubt: Mrs. E. C. McCarthy, West
Maitland, N.S.W., writes : —August 19th, 1889.
Dear Mr. Clements, —I address you thus familiarly
because I consider you a brother and a friend,
although I never met you. I have suffered ex-
cruciating agony from nervous toothache for years,
on and off, and could not get relief. 1 had
seven teeth extracted (what a wrench those
dentists give us), one after the other, but as soon
as one was out the pain was passed to another. I
was given one of your Medical Guides, and there
read your theory that toothache is often a
symptom of Anaemia, and I had other signs which
I found you mentioned as being the effects of
anaemic conditions. I also read your boast of the
wonderful effects of Clements Tonic; I was scepti-
cal, smiled and disbelieved, but thought a trial
would do no harm, so sent for some, and in two
days—Oh ! joy, the pain was gone, I continued
the Tonic, and am cured at last; I never expected
to be, but am grateful enough to you, and you
may use this if worth your while. And Mrst
Whalley describes her case in these words
Wagga Wagga, N.S.W., Jan. 12, 1889. Your
wonderful Tonic has done me more good than
years of doctor’s treatment, and has restored me
to perfect health. Eor years I suffered from
nervous debility and its usual string of accompany-
ing ailments; sometimes I would be despondent
and melancholy, at others would have torturing
neuralgia, or nervous headaches; sometimes 1
would be quite worn out, tired and weak, and
unable to work. I awoke in the morning with
tired, aching limbs, swollen feeling in the eyes,
as if they would burst, sometimes headache
and frequent nausea and vomiting of mucous-like
green matter, and various unpleasant symptoms.
Although prejudiced against proprietary medi-
cines, I determined to try Clements Tonic and
Dr. Fletcher’s Pills, I took two pills every alterna-
tive night, and a tablespoonful of Clements Tonic
an hour before each meal-time, and in three days
I began to improve, and am now quite well. I
took seven large bottles of Tonic and two boxes
of pills ; my constipation is quite cured, and I
feel stronger and healthier than ever before.
Further evidence can be adduced to the above,
which we think is conclusive.
Full particulars and endorsements on appli-
cation to F. M. Clements, Newtown, N.S.W.;
at Melbourne, George and George; at Adelaide,
S. A. Mutual Stores, 96 Way mouth-street; at
Wellington (N.Z.), Sharland & Cos., and Laun-
ceston, J. D. Johnstone; and all dealers every-
where.
To overcome weakness.—Pepper’s Quinine
and Iron Tonic gives new life, appetite, health,
strength, energy. Cures neuralgia, indigestion,
nerve debility. Bottles, 2s. Gd. Insist on having
Pepper’s Tonic.
Reliable Watch Repairs. Daiims & Co., King-st. Arcade.
Fortune for a few pounds.—Buy land in the
Capital City of West Australia. W. J. Douglas,
9G Bathurst-street, Sydney.
Amusement of a profitable nature. Ladies,
make your own dresses by procuring one of our
dress stands ; they are indispensable for altering,
trimming, and re-arranging dresses. They are, in
fact, a household necessity. We make them to
fold up so as to go in trunks. Write for parti-
culars to East way Brothers, Dress Stand Makers,
411, George-street, Sydney.
The London & Sydney Tea Co. supply squatters
and farmers at wholesale prices.
The Choicest Jewellery. Daiims & Co., King-st. Arcade.


DEPOSITORS. BORROWERS.
INTEEGOLONIAL INVESTMENT
LAND & BUILDING- Co-, Ltd.,
AND
deposit zb-A. untied:.
Incorporated under the Companies’ Act.
Offices: 96 BATHURST STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors:
WM. M‘COURT, Esq., M.L.A. (Chairman);
R. J. BRANDON, Esq., J.P.; TIIOS. TATE. Esq.;
J. T. LAWLER, Esq.; G. DYSON, Esq.
BORROWERS*
Loans Granted on Approved Securities.
DEPOSITORS.
Moneys received on Deposit:
Three Years
One Year
Six Months
Participating
in
Bonus.
7J per cent.
7 per cent.
6 per cent.
Five per cent, allowed on Daily Balance of Current
Account, which may be operated on by cheque.
I-atest Balance-sheet on application.
w. J. DOUGLAS, Manager.
Ask for Wolfe’s Schnapps and take no other.
Chaulemont and Co., photographers to the
Governor, Royal Arcade, have moderated their
charges for photographs, with a view of meeting
every one. Cabinets now 15s. per dozen.
Try Oolemane and Son’s Eucalypte
Lozenges and Honey.
A fair beautiful skin.— Sul pholine Soap
gives the natural tint and peach-like bloom of a
perfect complexion ; makes the skin smooth,
supple, healthy, comfortable. 6d, tablets. Every-
where.
sooo
MAGIC LANTERNS I
Specially imported for our Xmas trade, and the most
marvellous value ever seen. Splendidly-made instru-
ments, strong and attractive, with twelve beautifully
coloured slides—Comic, Fairy Tales, etc.
Size No.l shows Picture 3ft. in diain.
No. 2
No. 3
No. 4
No. 5
Nothin
4ft.
sft.
Oft.
7ft.
more interestin'
could be selected for a Xmas Box.
instructive
5/- complete
8/6
12/6 „
18/6 ~
25/- „
or amusing
In higher-priced instruments, our
WONDERFUL CLIMAX LANTERN!
which found so much favour last year, is still un-
surpassed. Made entirely of polished brass, with a
magnificent selection of slides, comprising Puss-in-
Boots, Red Riding Hood, and a host of others. In
case, with lock and key.
Price (complete) ... No. 1 size, £2 ; No. 2 size, £2 10/-
We have noticed an increasing demand for a good
and cheap Magic Lantern and Slides, suitable for
Sunday School Lectures, Evening Parties, etc., and
we believe that in our
EXHIBITION MAGIC LANTERN SET
this want is fully met. The lantern is a grand instru-
ment, with 4in. condensers and fine achromatic front
lenses, is fitted with a new patent 3-wick refulgent
lamp, and will throw a picture on the screen 12ft. in
diain. With the lantern are given nearly three dozen
slides, including a set illustrating Nursery Tales
Scripture Views, Comic Stories (as desired), Comic
Moving Slides, Conundrums, Good Night, etc., and
Lectures complete.
The price is £5 ss. By other makers’ catalogues it
vould cost £7 10s. to £8 10s.
Are you a Photographer ? If not, why not ?
Fancy a complete photographic outfit—camera, lens
instantaneous shutter, plates, chemicals, etc.—for 7/6!
But we have them, and are selling them in thousands.
The DEMON DETECTIVE CAMERAS.
The wonder of the world. Anyone can use them—no
knowledge of photography required. Price, 7/6 each ;
by post, 8/6. Full descriptive circular on application!
Really, we have some GLORIOUS CAMERAS this
year, so good, so cheap, and so serviceable. We are
quite proud to show them. Made of solid polished
mahogany, leather bellows, excellent lens, tripod
stand and double dark slide.
Prices, J-plate (for c.d.v. pictures)—
£1 10 0 £2 2 0 £2 15 0
~ J-plate (cabinet)—
£2 17 6 ,£4 4 0 £5 10 0
53f” Send or call for price list of photographic goods.
MODEL STEAM ENGINES
MODEL STEAM BOATS
In great profusion. The very best presents possible
for the boys, who go almost mad with delight as they
see them start puffing and steaming along the table,
floor, or garden path.
Good Working Vertical Engines ... 4/6, 6/6, 12/6
~ Locomotive ~ 8/6, 10/6, 12/6, 20/-,’ 30/-
and upwards to £3 ss.
No danger, all lilted with safety valves.
The Famous OPTIMUS (regd.) WATCHES.
Splendid Swiss movements, in grand wearing nickel
cases. No better timekeepers ever made. Each
guaranteed and warrantry sent.
Price, IS/6, or in case with chain, £1 ; post, 1/- extra-
What with our Lanterns, our Cameras, our Steam
Engines, our Opera, Marine and Field Glasses, Micro-
scopes, Telescopes, Watches, Spectacles in Gold and
Silver, etc., and a thousand and one other things, we
have, without exaggeration, the most attractive, in-
structive and beautiful display of goods suitable for
Xmas presents in New South Wales.
COME AND SEE US.
FROST & SHIPHAM
The Great SPECTACLE MAKERS,
474 GEORGE STREET ( opposite Fruit Markets),
587 GEORGE STREET (Brickfield Hill),
SYDKTEY,
l-ST’ Magic Lanterns and Slides Lent on Hire Lectures,
Parties, etc., attended. Limelight Effects for Tableaux
Vivants, Private Theatricals, etc. Terms on application.
POLITICAL
POINTS
Labour organisation in Queensland is less
than six years old.
Queensland Customs returns have dropped
£28,000 per month in three years.
The coal imported from Japan during the
late strike was hewn and worked by convict-
labour.
South Australia is going to construct a
railway to Innamincka, so as to annex Queens-
land’s pastoral trade.
Judge Boucaut emphatically denies any
intention to re-enter the political arena, adding
that he has no wish to pose as a Rip Van Winkle.
Are there two of the name in the N.S.W.
Legislative Assembly, that the member for
Cumberland should be always styled “Mr. Frank
Parnell V”
Mr. L. F. Heydon, M.L.C., has gone to
London per Orotava, probably to see if he cannot,
even at this late date, block the N.S.W. divorce-
hill.
Alderman Tomkinson —a perky little Tory
of Tories -was ignominiously rejected at Adelaide
• municipal elections for kicking against municipal
: rates being assessed on unimproved values.
The teetotal racket we’ve patiently stood,
) But now it is perfectly clear
That Templars are hardly the least bit of good
‘ To rob an M.P. of his beer,
j S.A. Legislative Council has rejected the
Free Education proposal of the Playford Ministry.
The voting was 12 to 11. Fancy tivelve men
being able to delay the wishes of a whole
; Province !
Premier Munro has balanced his Cabinet
with a trio of ex-officio Natives, not deemed smart
enough for portfolios, but too dangerous to leave
out, altogether a false position to put Natives, or
even Scotchmen, into.
London Spectator points out that the
inefficiency of the House of Commons is due to
. the faet that it contains too many representatives.
Yec, in proportion to population N.S.W. elects
five times as many members !
The first Separation meeting held at
Townsville (Q.) was “packed” with wharf-
lumpers, who were instructed to “ bust it up,” at
the instance of a present M.L. A., who is now one
of the leaders of the movement.
S. W. Brooks, ex-M.P., and F. Ransome,
organiser and secretary respectively of the Bris-
bane Employers’Union dub the secretaries of the
labour bodies “paid agitators.” The epithet seems
to reasonably apply both ways.
What a farce to leave the appointment of
Engineer-in-Chief for N.S. Wales Railways to the
late unsatisfactory Engineer-in-Chief, Mr. Whit-
ton, and his brother-in-law, Sir John Eowler!
Was there ever so brazen a proposal ?
The Review of Reviews, discussing the
Australian strike, speaks of “the working-men of
the colony of Melbourne.” Evidently Mr. Stead,
of the empire of London, near Bangor, is not such
a well-informed person as is generally supposed.
The scheme for local legislatures in
Queensland, which, in its way, is perhaps as
striking a bit of statecraft as has emanated from
any Australian Government, is the work of two
men. M‘llwraith supplied the ideas ; Griffith put
them into form.
The belief grows that Sir Charles Lilley,
C. J., will be off the Bench and into the Queens-
land Assembly at next general election. J udged
by his litterings and writings—although he has
accepted the prefix bauble —Lilley is in most
things radical to the back-bone.
To be a successful working-man in New
South Wales, according to Mr. Torpy, who was a
wine-and-spirit dealer and is now a newspaper-
proprietor, a man must be thrifty and sober, and
carefully avoid early marriage. The surest way,
however, is to drink lemonade, run a loan-office,
and never get married at all.
The two young Tory cranks who edit
London Whirlwind are busy advocating the
restoration of the Jacobite dynasty. They have
actually crowned a lady whom they style “ Mary
of Modena,” and lately sent to the printers a
diatribe in her favour styled “A Call to Arms,”
which the compositors refused to “set up,”and so
the paper didn’t come out.
The Sydney branch of the Irish National
League has decided by a majority of two votes
only to uphold Parnell. Bah ! In a year Parnell,
the hot-blooded Lothario, will be forgotten. In
five hundred years Parnell, the cold-blooded
statesman, will be remembered. The O’Shea
affair is simply the wolf’s pretext for eating the
lamb. Parnell must show that he is not a lamb.
Since Pilcher, Q. 0., ceased to represent
West Macquarie, where the powerful MThillany
interest —the Q.O. having wedded a daughter of
that house—always secured his return, the Webb-
cwm-Paul combination have been hard-pushed for
decent candidates. Once they got a copper-miner
in tow who promised to stand if ho were not asked
to speak. This was agreed to, the copper-man was
returned, and ho never once opened his lips while
in Parliament.
After all, who believes in Gladstone’s per-
fect sincerity over the Irish Question ? He
chopped round five years ago merely to take the
wind out of the sails of Salisbury and the Conser-
vatives, who were coquetting with Parnell, and
going to do a sort of Disraeli-dish-the-Whigs trick.
This opinion does not affect one’s ideas of the
rights and wrongs of the Hibernians, but only the
G.O.M. as such —i.e., Great Oily Gammony.
The Duke of Argyle does not believe in
Socialism and Land Nationalisation. Yet he said
recently : “ The absolute ownership of every man
in his own muscles and in his own brain seems to
be an axiomatic truth.” Socialists claim nothing
more ; but, they point out that the man who owns
only muscles and brains is compelled by circum-
stances to submit to the expropriation of others
better endowed with goods, and that his muscle
and brain virtually belong to those possessed of
land or capital.
People laugh, with reason, at the dis-
organised state of the N.S.W. Parliamentary
Opposition. However, they may shortly have
an opportunity to laugh, with just as much
reason, at the disintegrated condition of the
Government, for it is quite on the cards that
Premier Parkes will, in accordance with a rumor
lately current, retire to England next year, after
availing himself of the precedent established by
the grant of £lO,OOO to old Jack Robertson.
Says John Morley—and the statement is
interesting at the present juncture:—“ There are
half-a-dozen men among the Irish leaders at this
moment who, in aptitude for public business, in
readiness, in mental vigour, in fitness for all the
GOOD AND SUFFICIENT REASONS.
H ODGE: “Mornin’! Jist come to see if ye can lend me the loan of yer ole ’oss; I want
to ride over to the township.”
P ODGE: “Wish I cud obleege ye, Bill, but the fact is the ole ’oss is that lame in he’s
’ind leg that he can’t walk, and besides I’m going to use ’im myself!”
arts of government, no less than in eloquence, in
power of argumentative debate, are, with the
single exception of Mr. Gladstone himself, a
perfect match for any other six men either on the
Government bench or on the front Opposition
bench.”
Parkes says that the shareholders in the
Broken Hill water company are wealthy men
whose interests would not be served by offering
bribes. Consequently they did not offer bribes.
On the other hand, if they had been poor men
they couldn’t have offered bribes. Consequently
they would not have done it in that case either.
In fact, neither section of humanity, according to
Parkes, ever offers bribes. Yet somebody does it
occasionally, though who in thunder it can be the
old man evidently forgot to explain.
Sir John Downer would have carried his
no-confidence motion against the Playford
Ministry had it not been for a split amongst the
Opposition. The motion in question shows how
peculiarly parties are constructed in S.A., and
how the desire for office is the prime consideration.
Sir John Downer is the most bigoted of Tories,
yet democrats, land - reformers and radicals
swarmed around him like flies directly there
seemed a chance of office. Had Downer’s reso-
lution been carried, the Playford Ministry would
have been the sixth wrecked since 1884 !
The N.S.W. Public Service Inquiry Com-
mission reports that the Superintendent and
assistant-superintendent of Telegraphs have not
been on friendly terms for a considerable period,
and recommends that both offices be abolished,
The same report recommends that all instruction
in telegraphy be given at Sydney Technical
College. Since the commission closed, the
telegraph-department instruction branch has been
reconstructed, at a cost of £lOOO, and instead of
abolishing the Telegraph Instructor’s sinecure
billet (there are no pupils to instruct), no less than
four “ Instructors ” now hold appointments. So
much for Royal Commission reports and sugges-
tions.
Personal Items.
The 29th inst. will be Gladstone’s 81st
birthday.
Stanley says that Moslemism decreases.
So does Stanleyism.
Henry Labouchere’s sister is wife of the
Bishop of Rochester.
Lewis Cohen, the ex-Fiji chief, has been
re-elected Mayor of Adelaide.
The oldest of N.S.W. clergymen, Rev.
Thomas Donkin, died at the Kurrajong, near
Richmond, on Nov. 28, aged 90.
Gov. Kintore, seeing the absurdity of the
thing, has obtained the release of the man who
was given a month for boohooing him.
On dit that C. H. Buzacott has resigned
the managing directorship of the Brisbane News-
paper Co. in favour of his son William.
Editor Armit, of Cooktown Courier, is
the man who “ captained ” the Argus New
Guinea expedition to anything but glory in 1883.
The Melbourne Southern Cross says that
General Booth has ground his dead wife’s bones
to make theatrical bread for the Salvation Army.
To give the devil his due, “Canterbury”
Hutchinson was the first man to introduce the
subject of local option to an Australian audience.
Alderman J. H. Rainford is the only pub-
lican in Sydney City Corporation. Time was
when half the aldermen was engaged in the liquor-
traffic.
Mr. C. L. Garland, M.L.A. (N.S.W.), has
just buried his grandmother. She was 90 years
of age, and had five children, whose descendants
now number 107.
In addition to his vice-regal screw and
“ perks,” Gov. Norman, of Queensland, enjoys £8
per day and £ll7s. expenses as an English general
of the sixth grade.
Charles Henry Elliston, the Hobart
barrister, is grandson of Elliston, the famous
Covent Garden and Drury Lane comedian, of the
early part of this century.
A Melbourne “ scalawag ” claims to be a
a son of Chief Justice Coleridge (England). As
he gets very drunk he has made out a sort of a
prima-facie title to the name he claims.
It is the pet boast of one of the proprie-
tors of the Brisbane Courier that he reads nothing
in that journal but the “ads.” Consequently his
reading has been rather limited of late.
Chief Justice Lilley’s elder brother is a
flourishing butcher in Newcastle-on-Tyne, Eng.
The Queensland Lilley, under certain modifica-
tions, has done a little in the same way.
A certain Northern Queensland member
is a modern Esau. Nature erroneously anticipated
that Jack would reside in Siberia, and therefore
provided him with a redundant coat of hair !
The late Mayor of Gayndah (Q.) is a
heathen Chinee. One of the wealthiest and most
respected citizens of Normanton (Q.) is also a
Celestial. Still the Chinese will have to go !
Under - secretary - for - agriculture Peter
M‘Lean is the “ Arch-Good-Templar ” of Queens-
land. He is also author of numerous tomes on
Darling Downs vintages, and how they may be
mellowed and improved.
Sir John Fowler, inspector of railway-
material for the N.S.W. Government, and Mr.
JohnWhitton, ex-engineer in chief for railways
in N.S.W., are brothers-in-law. Which accounts
for a lot of milk in the cocoa-nut.
Last week a lunatic with an open Bible
caused some commotion by chasing Premier
Parkes all the way up Macqiiarie-street, Sydney.
The Bulletin could guess in two tries on what
commandment the crank had his finger.
Christie Murray, on off-nights at Adelaide
Royal, may be seen in the rear row of the almost
empty dress-circle “scanning” the stage and
making mental notes of the play. He swears that
it is untrue he is going to write another book.
J. Brunton Stephens has become a fossil
bound in red-tape since entering the Queens-
land Civil Service, and has for long done no
literary work of any consequence. His only
regular “screed ” is a weekly column of milk-and-
watery comment in a Brisbane paper.
The English jiress gushes over good father
Moltke’s 'JOth biithday. Moltke is a great soldier,
but a dog all the same. He is a Dane by birth,
and yet helped to humble his own little fatherland
—than which the sun shines on ho more gallant
country.
Sir Barnes Peacock, Q.C., has died, aged
80. ThiS old gentleman has for many years
delivered most of the judgments of the Privy
Council. He was a particular friend of ex-Justice
Faucett, of N.S.W., whose judgments have been
treated with phenomenal tenderness by the Privy
Council.
Parnell has ceased to be an honorary citizen
of Edinburgh, for the moral Town Council of that
place rose to the occasion and threw him out.
Morality is the strong point of the average Scotch-
man, and it is probably owing to this that his
country about tops the European record for
illegitimacy.
“The Princess von Reuss, wife of the Gei'-
man Ambassador in Vienna, puts on a lot of
‘side.’ She was patronising the newly-intro-
duced wife of the U.S. Minister, when that lady
turned on her and said loudly : ‘ls that your
usual style of talk, or do you only put it on when
you go out ? ’”
H. A. Wood, Formerly S.A. Public
Trustee, and now in “retirement” in America,
was about the smartest fraud that ever struck
Adelaide. Just before his disappearance, he
obtained a costly opinion from a leading lawyer
as to whether a person could abscond with safety
to a certain part of America. The opinion was in
the affirmative. Three months afterwards Wood
went there, and the Government had subsequently
to pay the lawyer’s bill !


< or
'.v>f >
7'7 f "
( v^U
\
v V
is
L \ }
to/ , G r '• ,°0 , /
i: 4
‘%- a . S
/7r?cf
Tcus/a/p ymfy-
lu'll /3 ~a //
'on
■ 0 /c t- 7/m e amuse
7) /- r p • 'v&Cff W'?*
JJy Ha.ir)i I £ aorybj QnU kct/ck //per /p?ot s }
(l(. airy-sT r T 0 £e%uile ?*)*feetftty
of ftp* Uyvyffu- 35^ I '^
Ujtrjftr
Coyjjfi
CV 0 u. j
J t is not made
compulsory to state the religious belief
professed by any person, but there is
little reason to doubt.that most people
will have little or no hesitation about an-
nouncing their religion.
CfsyspA^
r \4i*
’r
O/jest/or/ nuq6 t 2//z#jr )v/fat hym/tty/oas
MSiV.P#//lkiap /ef m tee /?tp
wh/ ms Peit Jp£ fast
tf&ieral //efectJop 7
s4'
I sa -y tofny /fere t
s> cfraiyiipo's '(Jo oTfs
'ccrrnS~c Ae./j you. <xy' rye e Cfr~asj-
co 2go- *i (ui tlj fnj ei *7 cC
Softy /fusTl-af-
as/a.p
Afy/ryo.'is /fsio-
! /
,f
fr\p:'*t '
> v 5
1 '
& y I*h
fke-' 1 rv 7
/fh
i v
T-S^
|u^
'
h
r^yyK
7/
/mvmc
THINGS IN GENERAL.


II&
O -
f-iOMe irs rviCE. vt&rrARiAN
-FA rfliuf (f
, v
*L ,
SEEKS HOME. WILL rM A l-CE
HERSELF 6EN6RALY USE.PUU
I N RETUR ty "
0 11
RE'EN&AfetMENr
IN <Sr-e (NT J-E. (V» //a Ns.
FA M t l-Y WAfe s.
NO OBJECT
'' C OM FO HO M&' TOR^SIK
YOrniOr 6-ENTS> ALL, ROUND
ff
V\ Arj WANTS
Position OF xKusr rr
A " PLftl fs) COO *C
" /WAN
UVHO WANTS
PAINT! N<2 *-
r „
Cr
THE
WIDOW
/ WHO HAa
/vacancy
ft
p;
EL* PER\ E. I\C E- D t.
f 1 tm 6 th&r •£>-—: h p"
/, -t
THREE yQIJMGr-
OFFER
SUPERIOR HOfviE,
TO A GENTLEMAN ,
G-OOD' TABI-E"'
ILLUSTRATED ADVTS.


The SYDNEY DEPOSIT BANK,
90-KING STREET —9O
Established 1885.
Agencies in London and throughout Australia.
Overdrafts granted against Deposit of Deeds,
and all the usual banking business transacted.
The following are the Rates of Interest allowed
for Fixed Deposits:—
9J per cent,
per cent.
3 Years
12 Months
C Months
■3 Months
Oy JJCI bull
74 per cent,
per cent.
5 per ent. allowed on daily balance of current account.
For the past Four (4) Years a Bonus of One per
Cent, has been paid in addition to the above rates.
This is the first and only Bank in the Colonies
which divides its profits with its depositors._
Communications from the country will be
promptly attended to.
F T. S. RICHARDSON,
General Manager
-£> U 0 H A N A
"HOUSE OF COMMONS” WHISKY.
N’S
HIGHEST AWARD : Paris International
Exhibition, 1889.
W. H. PALING & COMPANY, LIMITED,
356 George Street, SYDNEY,
HAVE Just Opened a Magnificent Lot of New r>ianos from the celebrated Makers, Steinway, Braid, Uebel, Penrich, Lipp,. lloniscTi, BlutTaner, others
Also of the wonderful Victor Pianos at £4=s and Estey Or No such \ anety or Valuer elsewhere for Cash or lerms.
Society
Jersey’s aides who arrived by the Oratava
Are anything but lovely, especially Goshen, in
fact, they’re decidedly weedy. When the big
ship sighted their new land of Goschen they
shouted at least a hundred bottles of champagne
for the saloon passengers.
* * *
That interesting widower, John Hurley,
M.L. A. for Hartley, is about to get married to
the daughter of an old and respected Sydney
citizen. John still retains strong traces of the
manly beauty which, in the old days of Hill End,
made him Adonis-in-chief among 10,000 men.
# * *
“ Sir Arthur Nicholson, Bart.,” it is tele-
graphed, “ visits England shortly for an extended
period.” Well, supposing so ! Why should this
kind of telegram be inflicted on us ? What do we
care where he goes or how long he stays ? Sir
Arthur found himself with a hereditary title
and no money, and so he became a policeman—a
very gentlemanly policeman, indeed. Then he
married a Geelong girl with a heap of money, and
now he is going where they all go.
* * *
“Sir Joseph Lister, Bart., an eminent
surgeon, asserts that Dr. Koch has discovered a
simple and cheap remedy for two of the worst con-
tagious diseases, but that particulars will not be
disclosed for months.” When this cable appeared
a powerful syndicate was formed by the Sydney
quack doctors with a view to cornering the
secret. It now transpires that tetanus and diph-
theria are the maladies in question.
*# * .
Miss Linn, an Adelaide milliner, has
secured £lOO from Mr. Alford, a pure and inno-
cent-looking clerk in the
sacred land, for breach
of promise and alleged
seduction. The lady is a
fetching blonde, aged 23.
The defence was pecu-
liar : Mr. Alford could
not marry his charmer
becuise he was related
to Dean Alford and the
Bishop of Hongkong !
* # *
It is not often that
the ghastly, hidden mys-
teries of the Sydney
boarding - house are
dragged into the fierce,
white light of publicity.
The other day a Sydney
suburban resident unex-
pectedly gained know-
ledge of part of the
unhallowed rites. At
various intervals an old
man had called begging
for broken victuals, which
had been given to him.
One morning he ap
peared with a bag over
his shoulder, which bag
was evidently full. “Look
here, ma’am,” he said,
mysteriously, “you keeps a boarding-house,
don’t you?” “No, I don’t,” was the answer.
The man’s countenance fell. “Why do you
ask?” was the natural question, for he looked a
very unlikely candidate for board and lodging.
“ Well, it was just this way, you see. I thought,
of course, we could make a deal. I goes round
begging victuals all day, and then I disposes of it
to boarding-houses, and here’s a lot might have
suited you.” He removed the bag from his
shoulder and opened it. They were all there—
the hard, defiant chunk of corned beef, the greasy,
cold roast, the congealed soup-meat, the in-
destructible steak, the immortal cold bone of
mutton, the fried chop, the mysterious sausage,
the cold, waxen potato, and several substantial
nuggets of yesterday’s^bread.
* * *
Miss Sutherland-’s attack on the Women’s
Hospital, Melbourne, as a training-place for the
young Sawbonses, dabbling in common china
before touching porcelain, Dresden and Sevres
ware, brought up a furious reclame at next com-
mittee-meeting. All the committee are dames,
and Secretary Gibson holds his hen convention.
Miss Sutherland is a sturdy Democrat, of plain,
plodding style, while the convention is of the
Toorakiest, but for all that, Miss S. has made the
fatal mistake of overstating her case.
* * #
Adelaide is less “ loyal ” than Melbourne
as judged by their respective tariffs for offending
Government House. In Adelaide a man gets a
month for hooting Kintore, but in Melbourne the
Pantonites shunted an ignorant fellow for the same
term for bluffing a mere Governor’s-orderly.
* * #
Mrs. Goe, Melbourne’s Bishop’s wife, is a
hard-headed, sensible woman, reminding one a
little of Anthony Trollope’s Mrs. Proudie. Her
only weakness is jewellery, and she presides at the
Melbourne Women’s Hospital Committee meeting
with five expensive rings on her fingers, one a fine
single diamond, another a bunch of diamonds,
the third a bunch of pearls. Consequently her
colleagues put their best fingers foremost, and the
table looks like a jewellers’ shop as the diamond
rings meander over the cheque-books,
* * #
A Queensland paper announces in its
advertising columns that a “ a young gentleman,
bright, refined, without friends, wishes to be
adopted.” We trust somebody may take this
gentleman up and be a mother to him for the rest
of his life. Also if some affectionate person would
like to adopt a large, hoarse orphan of 37 and
bring him up by hand, we can put her on the
track of such a person at once. He has a reliable
thirst, and generally comes home late and raises
promiscuous Sheol among the furniture ; and any
delicate widowed lady who is yearning for some-
one to comfort her lovely soul and withdraw her
thoughts from the sad memories of the past,
would find him invaluable,
# * #
The widow of Actuary Black, late of the
A.M.P. Society, has requested that no further
steps be taken concerning the proposed gratuity,
and the ballot has consequently been abandoned.
It would have been well for Insurance had it never
been proposed. No more insidious blow could
have been aimed at the system than to make it
seem necessary that the widow of its most highly-
paid officer and stoutest polemic upholder should
require eleemosynary aid on his decease. “ Surely
an enemy hath done this thing.”
* # *
The life of the American Postmaster-
General is insured for £260,0C0. But nobody
would assure the life of N.S.W. Postmaster-
General O’Connor for over £5 since he put up
those red light-houses to advertise pills and whisky
at the street corners.
# # #
Governor Hopetoun attended a cattle-show
the other day, and was walking round in a stately,
HOW HE WENT INTO THE WHALE.
HOW HE COULD NOT PAY.
HOW HE GOT OUT AGAIN.
These are stone tablets recently found at an excavation at Ancient Askalon and supposed to represent the legend of Jonah in
the Whale public-house.
ofiicial manner accompanied by his suite, when
somebody slapped him on the back with great
violence. He turned round in haste to inspect
the aggressor, and found a black gin pounding on
the vice-regal spine in the guileless ignorant
manner peculiar to her race. It was an embarras-
sing situation, and when the lady shook hands
with him it didn’t improve matters much. She
was a stout, middle-aged person, dressed in a coal-
bag and a petticoat, and her muddy feet obscured
most of the polish on his boots. Also she was of
a reserved turn of mind and offered no coherent
observation, so Hopetoun attempted to relieve
the moral tension by giving her half-a-crown.
Then a great, glad smile of recognition passed over
the countenance of the daughter of the soil, and
diving into a pocket that was concealed some-
where about her knees she solemnly handed out
an infected sixpence by way of change, and went
her way.
* # *
The Melbourne Young Women’s Christian
Association announces that its hired emissary goes
round those factories where girls are employed
and spreads the good tidings at feeding-time, and
then it gratefully mentions that arrangements
have been made in many cases to curtail the lunch-
hour in order to give time for religious instruction.
If the Y.M.O.A. could imagine the awful language
of some of these girls when they find their meal
cut short so that they may listen to some facts
about Barrabas, it would probably feel just a
shade less joyful about its great mission.
#' * *
Education is evidently somewhat at a dis-
count in Queensland. An Alligator Creek “ cock-
atoo ” advertises in a Townsville paper for a
tutor, “ who must be able to milk ! ”
* * *
A good deal of iuss is still being made in
Sydney about Parson Gardiner’s affair. Why ! the
people of Sydney have raised a statue to a good
churchman, who was known in his good church
days to have seduced two sisters, and he was a
married man, too !
* * *
The N.S. Wales “ junior bar ’’ gets a
nasty knock in the new Probate Bill, where
attorneys, solicitors, and proctors get the same
right of audience as do barristers. The “2 guas.”
for bobbing up with a slip of paper, supposed to
be a last will and testament, with “Yer Honor,
probate, last will and t’st’ment ” of John Smith,
&c., will now go into the capacious maw of the
family solicitor—who won’t send to the barrister
money which he can himself pocket. The senior
bar and the solicitors have in this matter coalesced
to starve the junior bar.
# * *
Not long ago an Australian Supreme Court
judge complimented a junior barrister on the
manner in which he had conducted a divorce-case.
The following week the barrister married the
judge’s daughter!
* * *
Dear Bulletin, —Most of your readers
will probably consider Bunyip’s yarn, “ Stuffing,”
an amusing invention, but from my own experi-
ence not long ago, I have little doubt about its
truth. People travelling through countries largely
populated by Chinese are generally surprised how
cleverly the Mongols use the well-trained muscles
of the mouth for various kinds of work. The
laundrymen, for instance, are capable of stowing
away in their capacious mouths nearly half-a-pint
of a thin starchy solution, which while ironing,
with faces like Seraphs playing the trombone, they
squirt in a fine spray continually over the clothes,
one mouthful being sufficient for a large number
of shirts. A short while ago, while staying at a
station in the Great Pine-Scrub, I was strolling
about the yard when through the half-open
kitchen-door my eye was involuntarily caught by
the sight of the fat Chinese cook, with his cheeks
blown up in the characteristic way, ready for im-
mediate action, I suspected that he might be
starching the table-cloth for dinner, and stopped a
moment to ascertain how far one could go in the
use of the napkins that night. But I was mis-
taken, Ah Hop was not ironing, he was
handling a splendid cake and was artistically
putting on—the icing! I was uncertain if I
should say anything about my discovery, but,
besides being aware that the people counted
amongst the most ardent believers in Chinese
labour, I was but slightly acquainted with them,
and, for all I knew, they might have been fully
aware of this style of cooking, and might be
entirely free from prejudices. For, to do the cook
justice, when the cake made its appearance at the
dinner-table, it looked very tempting, the icing
being applied in a very even frothy layer. Judging
by the way the diners, the ladies especially, helped
themselves to it, it must also have been of excel-
lent flavour, but here I cannot speak from my own
experience. “Try the cake, I can really recom-
mend it! ” said the pretty governess, audibly
crunching between her pearly teeth a piece of the
artistic icing. But “ I hardly ever eat cake,” and
preferred a banana. Yours, New-Chum.
# # *
A certain amount of surprise has been
created in Brisbane by the erratic conduct of a
lady who has altered her complexion more sud-
denly than usual. For at least ten years the
patient has been known in society as a handsome
brunette, and now she has suddenly started busi-
ness as a blonde, with a great mass of golden hair.
A change of this kind ought to be effected by
degrees; when it is done instantaneously the
result is too surprising. Some eight or ten years
ago one of the beauties of Bendigo was a barmaid
with a tinge of milk and roses in her cheeks, and
hair the colour of yellow sunshine, but she mar-
ried one Aaron, and faded away almost in a day.
No one ever knew how the transformation came
about, but it is presumed that the bridegroom
threw the complexion out of the window, and put
his foot down on the golden wash, for within 48
hours after the marriage there was nothing left
but a yellow girl with hay-coloured tresses, and
all the glory had departed.
* * #
Sir Bernard Burke announces per circular
that he has in the press vol. I. of “ Burke’s
Colonial Gentry :
A Genealogical and Heraldic Dictionary of the Prin-
cipal Families Residing in the British Colonies, By Sir
Bernard Burke, C. 8., LL.D., Ulster King of Arms.
Author of the Dictionary of the Peerage and Baronetage,
The Landed Gentry, Vicissitudes of Families, Reminis-
cences, Ancestral and Anecdotal, &c., &c.
This strikes us as somewhat premature, inasmuch
as we are not yet in possession of a reliable Aus-
tralian Newgate Calendar. It also appears
rather ill-timed, considering how energetically the
canvassers for “Men of Mark ” are just now being
thrown downstairs by the public.
# * *
Sydney Echo has offered five guineas for
the best original sailing song. It is said that there
are but forty good stories, and that thirty-nine of
these cannot be told in the presence of ladies.
That, if one may judge from the ditties trolled at
the Sydney harbour sailing-camps, is also the case
with nautical songs. No sailing song to suit
“the boys ” will, it may safely be wagered, ever
be printed in so godly a little paper as the Echo.
# * #
The champion mean man just now is a
certain N.S.W. assayer, who went out to inspect
a mine and, getting benighted, was afforded shel-
ter in the tent of a working miner and allowed to
sleep on the latter’s only couch—two half-hags of
fresh chaff. When the digger returned from his
night-shift the assayer had decamped, leaving no
word of thanks, and before going had turned out
the chaff to his horse, who had got away with the
bulk of it.
* * *
As a proof of the extent of the buffalo-
shooting industry in the Northern Territory, it
is mentioned in the Port Darwin Times that
three trappers on the Adelaide river got two
hundred hides in just about a month. The beef
is utterly wasted. Here is a hint to the sportsmen
of the south.
* * *
The same venerable story over again. Mr
Avison, of Daylesford (Vic.), came home un-
expectedly, and got into the house so suddenly
that Mr. George Hoare hadn’t time to get out
Mr. Avison had a wild, infuriated glare in his
eye, and carried an axe. He reproved Mr. Hoare
on the head with this implement* and any brains
which that gentleman ever possessed were so much
loosened that he will never want them again. A
man who doesn’t know enough to put a chest of
drawers up against the door should stay at home.
# * #
That angel visitant who searches the
pockets of coarse, unfeeling man while he is
asleep, and gives him her bonnet-bill to pay, i s
just waking up to a sense of another grievance
and when Parkes is quite through with his Female
Suffrage Billhe might take a look at this new
problem. When a winsome woman marries she
is required to assume her husband’s name, and
thus sink her own identity, and she is beginning to
ask why this should be thus. She may be a
queenly creature with a patrician designation
and he a sawn-off, stumpy person called Briggs’
but all the same the tyranny of custom demands
that she should also become Briggs, and the angel
visitant feels that this is rough. Consequently
it is suggested that the name should be a matter
of previous arrangement, the wife to take that of
the husband or the husband that of the wife, as
may be agreed upon, or—if they should’ so
resolve—the two names may both remain, and
Miss Smith, on her marriage with Mr. Jones
may simply become Mrs. Smith, while he remains
Jones as before. As the lady, no matter what she
is called, will doubtless go through her husband’s
pockets just as before, he can afford to let her
have her way on this point; the result will be
very much the same.
* * *
The houses in Paddington (N.S. W.) named
“Glamis ” and “Cawdor,” and lately the subject
of an action in the Supreme Court, were built by
the late Mr. Macbeth, an architect.
* #
The straightforward
evidence of Mr. Fergu-
son, one of the non-eom-
mitted directors of the
Premier Building Associ-
ation, was last week’s
“ sensation ” of the Mel-
bourne cause celebre.
Nimmo’s cross-examina-
tion of Ferguson threw a
very lurid light on the
whole business.
* * *
Now that the Mel-
bourne lawyers have cut
a fat slice off old-man
Moss’s will, the caveators
have consented to accept
a very few thousands
from Mrs. Grace Somner
and let her take the lega-
cies which a thickhead-
ed jury attempted to
set aside. But there is
no talk of consigning the
eleven good men and true
—whose lunacy was duly
pointed out in The
Bulletin - to padded
cells. Their names still
adorn the special jury-roll
from which the higher classes of professional
thinkers —such as, hem ! journalists—are carefully
excluded. That’s where the strength of the system
oomes in.
# # *
A painful sight this hot weather is that of
a red-headed man in a shiny bell-topper and
a black suit trying to look cool.
* # #
The Rev. Bigamist M‘Leod, who is appeal-
ing to the Privy Council, is still incarcerated at
Darlinghurst prison, and until very recently was
clothed and fed as an ordinary convict. The in-
justice of this was, however, apparent, and he has
been allowed to resume his own clothing and buy
his own food. Which reminds us that at Sydney
August Quarter Sessions a bush man got eight
years for something about a cheque. This terrible
punishment was awarded on the strength of some
previous heavy sentences “read-up” against the
man. These, it has since been admitted, were
read up in error. What has been done with the
man?
# # #
A Queensland Anglican church-verger
“ slung out ” the organist during divine service,
the other day, under the delusion apparently that
he had been looking at the wine (the Sacramental
wine) when it was red. Sequel: verger ordered
to pay 40s. fine and costs, in default 14 days.
# * *
While in Adelaide, Lady Robinson has
been staying at Lady Downer’s, and Sir William
at Government House all the time, don’t you
know.
# # #
Five years ago Mrs, Melba-Armstrong
lived in comparative seclusion on a Mackay (Q.)
sugar-plantation, whence she only occasionally
emerged, to warble at a church or hospital concert
held in the* township. Her husband commanded
considerable' respect locally as an athlete. He
was known as “Kangaroo Charley,” and was one
of the overseers of the plantation aforesaid. In


—THE-
AUSTRALIAN MERCANTILE
LOAN & GUARANTEE CO., LD.
HEAD OFFICE
CORNER OP YORK AND MARKET STREETS.
BRANCHES :
LONDON—IIO Cannon Street, E.C.
MELBOURNE—2B3 Collins Street E.
BRISBANE—Edward and Elizabeth Streets.
NEWCASTLE-37 Hunter Street.
LONDON BOARD OF ADVICE
Lord Ulick H. Brown.
Hon. Vesey Fitzgerald.
Howard, John, Esq.
The Company grant Immediate Advances upon all Classes
of Mercantile or other Approved Securities.
Interest Allowed on
3 Months
6 Months ....
12 Months
3 Years ....
Fixed Deposits :
6 per cent.
7 per cent.
8 per cent.
9 per cent.
General Manager.
A pure spirit—Wolfe’s Schnapps.
Coloured pen and ink sketches of the
Gaiety Company— who were to sail for New York
on Bth November—are already on exhibition at
Melbourne Princess’, seven months before the
originals are due.
Mind you get Wolfe’s Schnapps.
In Consumption
USE horseord’s acid phosphate.
Dr. A. G. Rawson Harris, L.R.0.P., and
M.R.0.5., “The Elms,,” Pembroke, Eng., says :
“ I administered it with the best results in a case
of phthisis, first stage. The symptoms were very
unfavourable ; great derangement of the digestive
and nervous systems, very little sleep, and no
appetite; the patient herself had lost all hope,
being of a fatalistic tendency of mind, and the
results were all the more gratifying.”
Ayer’s Pills cure constipation, improve the
appetite, promote digestion, restore healthy action,
and regulate every function. This medicine is
pleasant to take and gentle in its operation. See
Ayer’s Almanac.
“PEOPEETT G-O-IDB.’
Sent Post Free Everywhere.
GARRARD & HAMILTON, Auctioneers - - 76 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
PURE AND OLD
AUSTRALIAN
Wines
SPECIALITIES;
CLiiRET and HOCK.
CALDWELL & CO.,
Melbourne,
AND
Lake Albert Vineyard, Wagga Wagga, M.S.W
Mackay, Mrs. Armstrong was regarded as a good
singer, but not by any means as a “ star.”
# # *
“ Eligibles ” are almost as scarce in
Northern social circles as in the average back-
block village, while sighing maidens, on the other
hand, are quite as proportionately numerous and
willin’. Thus, when a man who is in sassiety, as
was a certain prominent doctor, smiles on the
girls, then goes away deliberately and marries a
nurse, the indignation of society knows no bounds.
Nor is the case mended when it casually trans-
pires that the engagement was at least a couple of
years old. Tis said that the ordinary, well-
disposed, meddlesome kind of person called to
remonstrate with the doctor, and was ejected from
the verandah with a velocity that carried him
round the corner of the next street.
# *
Rupert Oarington is still in Melbourne
waiting to get married. In London, Rupert’s
name is a mere synonym for all the ennobling
accomplishments which can adorn a brainy human
being. Great things may be predicted of this
young man when he gets enough money to fully
indulge his scientific tastes in his old English
haunts.
* # *
An Anglican clergyman writes to a Sydney
paper to show that the clergy are not so badly
paid as has been asserted. With very few ex-
ceptions, says he, incumbents of churches receive
at least £4OO a year, with house rent and taxes
free, and at least £5O additional from fees. More
than half-a-dozen receive £5OO a year and fees,
with house, and some two or three get more than
this by a hundred or two. Young men just
ordained, in deacon’s orders, receive as curates
not less than £l5O. But they are unmarried men,
and have no one but themselves—certainly no
horses—to keep.
* * *
The Collingwood drapery firm of Foy
cuts off a gas-bill of £lOOO a year, by adopting
the electric-light.
* * *
General Booth reckons that his first batch
of hallelujah paupers will arrive in Australia
about twelve months from this date. The interval
will give Australia j ust about time enough to blow
the dust out of the old gun, and grind the axe,
and give a large order for coffins, and otherwise
clear the decks for action.
# * *
The hypodermic blush is much in vogue
just now, and in the case of dramas where the
moral is rather too suggestive it is absolutely in-
dispensable. It is brought about by injecting a
little colouring-matter into each cheek, and for
two hours it gives the wearer a look of offended
sensibility and soft confusion. Then it fades
away, and leaves her with a wild, greeny-yellow
aspect, as if her dinner were in insurrection on
the surface of an internal sea, and she is blinded
by the glare of her own nose, for the colour rushes
to that organ, and resists any known form of
medical treatment short of murder. Ten years
hence there will be an impression abroad that
beauties of 1890 were a hard-drinking race, and
many of them will adopt the faith of St. Peter,
and hide an hopelessly inflamed proboscis in a
nunnery.
* # *
A big section of the Sydney evening press
has evidently made up its mind that Larsen,
accused of the Peak Hill murder, shall not have a
fair trial. It is engaged in prejudicing his trial
on the capital charge by giving ex parte evidence
proving that the accused was a professional
robber. Schmidt’s case, and a thousand other
cases, over again.
* * *
News comes of the formation of a
“Kreutzer Sonata Club,” composed entirely of
men who have been unfortunate in their
domestic relations, and whose object is to dis-
courage others from “committing matrimony.”
At present this charming club consists of less
than a dozen members ; but as these have already
got into trouble for forcibly trying to prevent a
marriage by the primitive device of kidnapping
and drugging the bridegroom, it will be seen that
they make up in energy what they lack in
numbers.
# * *
The tale of how Prince George of Wales
and one companion knocked six wild ruffians into
the dust in the streets of Montreal has suddenly
gone kite-high, and an awful horror has taken its
place. The fight was genuine enough, but it was
the Prince who was knocked out. There had been
an Imperial drunk in the Canadian city, and
about 1 a.m. George and two supporters were
making the early morning hideous with three
great horse-laughs in a public thoroughfare, but
when they finished up by shoving two compositors
into the gutter, these individuals grew angry and
walloped the majesty of Britain. Then George of
Wales screamed vociferously for the police, and
the whole five were run in. The affair was
squared up in the morning, and the printers were
bought off and sworn to eternal secresy, but, un-
luckily, the constables who arrested a banged and
bruised prince at a street corner didn’t get a fair
share of the hush-money, and they seem to have
given the story away.
* * *
As a result of the passing of Shiels’ Divorce
Act in Victoria, there are some forty cases “ listed ”
for the coming sittings. Drunkenness and deser-
tion are the grounds chiefly alleged.
9 # *
The committee - room of Melbourne
Women’s Hospital is adorned by what the visitor
at first takes to be a fine oil-painting of Genevieve
Ward, the actress, but it turns out to be not
Genevieve, but only dear Lady Loch. Yet
Genevieve’s performance of “Antigone” raised
£5OOO for the magnificent new wing, and what
performance did dear Lady Loch ever give ?
However, the committee is strict, and has to keep
Thespiana in the background.
# # *
The latest English sensation is a double
murder committed by a woman named Pearsey,
who, being jealous of the wife and child of a man
named Hogg, with whom she had long been
unduly intimate, decoyed them to her house,
killed them both and carted the bodies off the
premises in the dead child’s perambulator. After
reading the details of this terrible affair, The
Bulletin is confirmed in its opinion that alf
THE EXTREME OF FASHION.
X, —Miss Bingle observes with envy that
mere chits of girls who carry
fiddles through the streets attract
a lot of attention.
II. —Resolves to go in for a fiddle. “ And
while I am about it,” said she,
“I might as well go in for a big
one.”
women the corners of whose mouths turn down,
as do Mrs. Pearsey’s, as per her photo., are to be
carefully avoided. #
The fruit-hawking trouble begins again in
Melbourne, the city Corporation, as mouthpiece
only of the shopkeepers, having, in the course of
the winter, fulminated regulations to gag the
truckers utterly, and drive the working-classes to
shops where an article of half the value is sold at
double the price. Here, if you view it aright, is an
aspect of the great Labour-war.
Billy Little.
The most popular man in the Queensland Assembly
is Billy Little, member for that immense tropical
constituency, Woothakata. Billy says of himse
that he is an Irishman, born in Australia. He
has been miner, bullock-driver, publican, store-
keeper, butcher, and many other things by turns ;
he now acknowledges no other occupation than
that of representative of the miners and carriers
in the Far North. He varies his industrious
attention to Parliamentary duty by a sincere study
of current sporting information, thus keeping ms
already profound knowledge on those subjects in
touch with latest developments. _ He is the sole
authority in the Queensland Legislature upon the
vast and complicated details of the Turf, prize-
ring and kindred subjects. He is all-Australian
in his sporting sympathies ; outside of Australia,
in his opinion, sport does not exist. While he
has a generous appreciation of individual effort,
he has a lofty and serene consciousness that in the
field of his favourite studies there is only one man
capable—did he choose to put forth his might—iff
deserving the laurels. That man is Billy Little.
It must be allowed that if there were a cake tor
boasting, Billy would take it. It must also be
conceded that his record to some extent justifies
his vaunts. This was tacitly admitted by some
members lately in the smoking-room. I hey told
Billy they didn’t believe he could fight, and that
they were sure his statements on the subject were
all blow. Billy’s reply was concise. He said :
“Hit me.” They didn’t.
# ' * *
Billy Little is a broad-shouldered, battered-
looking old fellow, with a great mop of bleached
hair on his head, and with black eyes that twinkle
with humour, glow with enthusiasm, or blaze
with fury as the mood is on him; he has as many
scars as a veteran and possesses a limp among the
memorials of his long life. The sources of his
popularity in the Assembly are many. He has
unflagging spirits, a rough but very rich humour,
he is transparently honest, he belabours his anta-
gonists with sincerity but without vindictiveness;
.there is no trace of malice in his composition, and
he has the genuine Australian spirit of helpfulness
towards a neighbour in trouble. In fact, in a
rough, bullocky, odd, humorous way, Billy goes
near fulfilling the spirit of a sermon that was once
preached on a mountain.
# # *
Billy Little’s contributions to debate are not
frequent, but they are always listened to with
attention - and with laughter. In high-pitched
staccato tones lie flings out in all directions. But
while provoking general merriment he usually con-
trives to add something valuable to the fund of wis-
dom and information on the subject he deals with.
It is in interjection, however, that he is unrivalled.
The essence of a whole debate is sometimes con-
tained in one of his racy remarks. During the
recent discussion on _ Griffith’s decentralization
measure, MTlwraith, in the course of his speech,
dealt with the financial view of the proposed
Northern separation scheme. He laboured to
show that the North would be crushed by her
share of the Queensland debt. The Northern
members had, as they thought, shown over and
over again how the difficulty could be _meb, and
they were impatient at this, to them, irritating
playing of the same old tune. “What,” asked
the Treasurer, “will you do with this debt.
“ I’ll give you my cheque for it,” sang out Billy
from a remote corner, and the contemptuous
humor of the remark, so well conveyed by the
high-pitched voice, delighted the Northern mem-
bers and caused MTlwraith to laughingly drop
the subject.
* * *
Billy Little’s adieu to Sir Henry Norman is
likely to become historical. Here it is, almost
literally: “Well, Sirenery, good-bye,_ bongvoige,
and when you go to tea at Windsor give my love
to Victoria. What the red fluid hot place are you
fellows laughing at ? ” The latter part of this
speech was addressed to the assemblage, consisting
of the Ministry, aides-de-camp and other creamy
people who were standing around the departing
Governor.
* * *
There is one subject that is always certain to
provoke Billy Little’s fiercest _ rage. It is the
Cairns-Herberton railway. This monstrous job is
in Billy’s electorate, and has been perpetrated in
the teeth of popular opinion just to please certain
political wire-pullers in Cairns. The railway is
conducted over what is probably the steepest and
roughest range of mountains in Australia. I
tell you, mister,” Billy roars when he is on the
subject, “it won’t do. It will never do. Why,
the gradients are so steep that you would want to
put a sanguinary ‘ britchen ’ on the ditto_ engine
coming down them.” It is hard to say if Billy
will appear in a future Parliament, for Northern
constituencies love variety. If he should, how-
ever, the new House will have assured to it two
elements rare enough in these enlightened times—
a spice of original and genuine humour, and a
fine scorn of humbug and hypocrisy.
South Australia must either have a disso-
lution or a coalition before long.
Cardinal Newman had a contempt for
women, so writes one of his biographic intimates
in a magazine to hand. The Cardinal did not go
the length of the Psalmist, “ All men are liars,”
but was inclined to think all women were. We
have heard an Australian Chief Justice say the
same thing : “ I never believe the uncorroborated
statement of a female witness.
The friends of the late Mr. John Suther-
land, M.L.A., have engineered a Treasury vote
of £3OOO for his widow through the N.S.W.
Asembly, on the usual grounds. The grant would
have come with better grace from a Parliament to
none of the members of which had Sutherland ever
lent any money, which the borrowers, instead of
repaying, had included in their insolvency sche-
dules.
According to G. R. Sims, the Gattis (rich
Swiss caterers) sent 300 Conservative Swiss from
London to Berne by special train, paying all
expenses and finding them in pocket-money, to
vote at the late plebiscitical election. It is satis-
factory to know that their money was thrown
away. All this, as it happened at a distance,
reads queerly here, but wherein does the occur-
rence differ from the sending of special trains full
of non-resident property-voters to outlying con-
stituencies at every Australian general election?
While the strike was on, the
capitalists-made a lot of noise about
the peace of the country. Now they
want the whole of it again as usual.
An Indian hawker, suspected
of murdering a comrade in the
Gippsland district, has been already
convicted, sentenced and hanged by
the Melbourne newspapers. Which
reminds us that another Indian
person, who supplied the aforesaid
hawkers with their gaudy merchan-
dise, makes no distinction between
the Koran and the Bible for “swear-
ing ” purposes. The ghosts of those
old “martyrs,” who used to get
burnt up on mere technical points
of Christian religion, must be gradu-
ally finding out what idiots they
were.
Bulwer Lytton, in “ The
Caxton,” has a pretty “bit,” to the
effect that some men plant in their
hearts a tree of love, beneath
whose shadow no flowers (the little
“annuals”) of happiness can
flourish. It seems that the re-
cently - deceased Alphonse Karr
wrote—fifty years ago—“ Love re-
sembles those trees beneath whose
shadow all vegetation dies.” Had Lytton been
studying the Frenchman, or was this similarity
merely a literary “ coincidence ?”
As a hair dressing and renovator, Ayer’s Hai r
Vigor is universally commended. It eradicates
dandruff, cures eruptions of the scalp, invigorates
and beautifies the hair, and prevents its fading or
turning gray.


An exhilarating cordial is Wolfe’s Schnapps.
A Servian hotel-keeper lately published
the following obituary of his wife in all the papers
of the country :
With a heart full of sadness I hereby give notice of the
death of my beloved wife Sophia, who died by her own
hand, aged 32 last Sunday. For nine years we lived
aappily together, and to me in her youth and beauty she
was ever as a flower laden with the dew of early morning,
an ornament to my home, and the pride of my heart.
Last winter the Evil One sent a wicked major to my
house, who persecuted my poor wife until he succeeded in
seducing her innocent heart. When 1 found them out,
my beloved Sophia was so filled with shame at her sin
that she fired a revolver at herself, thus redeeming her
good name, but leaving me an unhappy man for the rest
of my life.”
After this poetical communication, the bereaved
husband declares that should he succeed in finding
Sophia’s major he will certainly give him up to
the police.
Wolfe’s Schnapps will make you a new man.
Publications, &c.
IN A WEEK 100,123 CITIZENS of SYDNEY
—VISITED —
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE
(Next Royal Hotel),
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Thousands honoured Mr. Dymock with a visit
on Saturday night, and were delighted with the
Promenade Concert. Congratulations still con-
tinue to come in by every post. Some say it is a
boon to the city, others it is marvellous, and all
agree it is a sight well -worth seeing.
Half a Million of Books on View !
meaning 20 miles, comprising
Law
Architecture
Engineering
Mechanical
Natural History
Political
Biography
Fiction
History
Medical
Travel
Australian History
Presentation Books
Educational
Foreign Languages
Illustrated Books
&0., &c.
Every book you want in any department may
be' had’ at this vast Book Emporium, where all
books are marked in plain figures, no one asked to
buy, no officious librarian to interfere with you.
Everyone invited to inspect the stock.
Mr. Dymock would also like to draw the atten-
tion of business men to his unrivalled Stock of
Stationery, unsurpassed in Australia. The ladies’
wants have not been overlooked, 25 per cent, can
be saved, and a superior selection to any establish-
ment in Sydney of elegant and fashionable sta-
tionery, combined with utility. On Sale
MUSIC Music MUSIC
Two and a-quarter Tons of Popular Music still remains,
and will be offered this week at
Two Shillings a Dozen!—worth 18s.
XMAS CARDS XMAS CARDS
Five Vanloads to select from.
Surpassing all other Stock in Sydney. No Old Stock. All
this year’s cards a t prices that must delight and surprise all.
PACKET OF XMAS CARDS.
The Marvellous Packet will again he offered.
Jpf'- 50 Beautiful Cards (post free), Is.; 25 ditto, 6d.
Cards from Id. to £5 each. 20,000 Booklets to select from.
Eight Hours a Day is Mr. Dymock’s Principle!
And he has, at great expense, engaged two com-
plete and efficient staffs, so that no employe will
be asked to work more than the legitimate eight
hours. Such enterprise deserves success, and Mr.
Dymock feels sure that the reading classes of
Sydney will support him in this new venture.
Books Bought, Sold or Exchanged.
Libraries Purchased.
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE,
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
WANTED, Smart and Energetic AGENTS
who are desirous of making an easy and
comfortable income, averaging One Pound per
Day. Apply at once, as time is money.
Historical Publishing Co.,
P.O. Box 610, SYDNEY.
Shipping.
JjJORDDEUTSCHER LLOYD.
IMPERIAL GERMAN MAIL.
Passengers are carried according to the requirements of
the English Passenger Acts of 1856 and 1863.
MONTHLY LINE OF DIRECT STEAMERS
from
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, and ADELAIDE,
to SOUTHAMPTON, ANTWERP, and BREMEN, via
COLOMBO, Aden, Suez, and Genoa,
taking passengers for London,
connecting from PORT SAID by DIRECT MAIL and
PASSENGER LINE to BRINDISI,
And thereafter every four weeks.
PASSAGE MONEY from SYDNEY,
£l4 to £57 10s.
COMPAGNIE DES MESSAGERIES MARI-
TIMES.
SYDNEY to LONDON.
OVERLAND FROM MARSEILLES via PARIS.
Steamers under postal contract with the Government of
France, calling at MELBOURNE ADELAIDE, KING
GEORGE’S SOUND, MAHE, SUEZ, and PORT SAID.
Passengers booked to KURRACHEE, BOMBAY,
MAURITIUS, and EAST COAST of AFRICA.
The service is carried on by powerful steamers of 4000
tons and 3000 effective h.p., built expressly for the Aus-
tralian and New Caledonian line, which will be despatched
as follows: —
1
Steamers. Commander.
AUSTRALIEN Didier ..
OCEANIEN iPoydenot
Leave Sydneyj Leave Mel-
at 11 a.m. bourne! p.m
Dec. 27 Deo. 30
I Jan. 25, 1891 Man. 28, 1891
And thenceforward on the 25th of each month.
Rates of passage-money to Marseilles from £2O to £65,
including table wines and Suez Canal dues on passengers.
RETURN TICKETS issued at the following rates
English interpreters meet through passengers for
London on arrival of steamers at Marseilles, and accom-
pany them to Paris and Calais. N.B.—Passengers’ luggage
conveyed free of cost from Marseilles to London. For
freight, passage, and further particulars apply at the
Company’s Office, 15 Macquarie-place.
A. CONIL, Principal Agent.
Furniture, etc.
John Lawler & Sons,
Wire Mattress and Bedding Manufacturers,
Upholsterers and Cabinet Makers, Im-
porters of Bedsteads, Chairs, Furniture,
Carpets and Floorcloths,
AS' 608 George Street, Sydney. 15&
Price List <Ss Illustrated Catalogue Post Free.
iV.v.av.y.^v
Established 1860.
A Strong Balcony Cane
Chair 12/0
A Strong Long Balcony
Lounge 15/
FOR Austrian, American
and Cane CHAIRS,
Bamboo Blinds, Garden and
Balcony Seats; for Camp
Folding Bedsteads, with
Woven Wire Spring Mat-
tresses, 20/
Go to LAWLER’S,
608 George-street.
USTRIAN CHAIR
For carpets,
LINOLEUMS,
FLOORCLOTHS, Rugs,
Mats, Blinds, Matting,
Kapok, Upholsterers’ Ma-
terials, Plushes, Tapes-
tries, Gimps and Cords.
Go to
LAWLER’S,
608 George-st.
Established 1860.
Illustrated Catalogue
Post Free.
(full size), ss.
■ ■ -
p;
WOOD SEAT
CHAIR, Black
or White, 2s 9d.
For toilet sets,
CHINA, GLASS-
WARE, Dinner and Tea
Sets, Cups and Saucers,
Cruets, Mangles, Cutlery
and Plated-ware, Copper
Boilers and Stoves.
Go to
LAWLER’S,
608 George-street,
Brickfield Hill.
Telephone 66.
CHEST of DRAWERS,
Seven Drawers in
all, as design shows;
brackets at front, locks,
keys, etc. —
Cedar, pine lined,
47/6, 50/- 65/-
If White Pine polished,
47/6, 50/-, 55/-
Designs of other and
costlier Chests of Drawers
upon application.
77. T
p;
Dressing chests,
with Glass fixed—
Cedar, pine lined,
£2 15/- £3 15/-
White Pine, polished,
£2 2/6 £2 15/-
For bedsteads,
CHILDREN’S COTS,
Cornices, Window Draperies
and Overmantels, Toilet
Glasses, Ice Chests, Filters
and Cane Lounges.
Go to LAWLER’S,
608 George-street.
Established 1860.
BEDDING, best quality—
2ft 6in
Paillasses, white Forfar 9/
Mattresses, flock 15/
~ Java kapok 20/
J ava kapok, extrasuper.,
sin. borders, d. thick.
Hair Mattresses, extra
super., 2/ per lb.
Bolsters, hair
„ kapok
Pillows, kapok (lar. size)
„ white Irish goose
feathers
3ft 3ft 6in 4ft 6in
10/ 11/ 12/6
17/6 20/ 25/
25/ 30/ 35/
p;
We Manufacture a
TRADE QUALITY
BEDDING, which
we can SELL at 25
per cent, less than
the above prices, but
we do not care to
recommend it.
A WEEK’S TOILET
SETS
Band and Line, full number
of pieces, 8/6
White and Gold, large sets, full
number pieces, 15/ set
Fancy and Gold, do. 17/6, 21/
Plain Printed Sets, do. 9/6 10/6
Handsome and effective sets,
25/- 35/- 45/- 55/
p;
..
QELEBRATEI)
“ CHEAVIN’S ”
RAPID water FILTERS,
From 11s 6d to 28s.
JOHN LAWLER
AND SONS,
Wire Mattress and Bedding
| Manufacturers,
Upholsterers and Cabinet
Makers,
608 George Street, Sydnejr.
[Established 1860]
Amusements.
JJ E R MAJEST Y’S THEATRE.
Lessee and Manager ... Mr. Geo. Kignold.
Doors open at 7. Commence 7.45. Carriages at 10.40.
A PHENOMENAL AND UNQUALIFIED SUCCESS.
EVERY EVENING, at 7.45,
TBE MURKY WIVES OF WINDSOR.
Box Office at Theatre from 10 to 5. Prices as usual.
J. P. Macdonald, Acting-Manager.
CRITERION THEATRE*
Under the Management of Messrs. Brough and Boucicault.
Acting Manager .... Mr. H, J. Magee.
IMMENSE SUCCESS! IMMENSE SUCCESS!
of the
Brough-Boucicault Comedy Company
in the Latest and Greatest London Success, where it has
just completed a most successful run at the Avenue
Theatre, and in which
MISS MYRA KEMBLE
will make her reappearance after an absence of two years,
entitled,
Or. Sill. Dr. Sill.
Prices—ss, 3s, 2s and Is. Box Plan at Nicholson’s.
Theatre royal
Lessee Mr. S. Lazar.
Treasurer Mr. Geo. L. Goodman.
Under the direction of Mr. GEORGE MUSGROVE.
THIS (THURSDAY) EVENING, DECEMBER 11,
at a quarter to 8 precisely,
■THCE SILVER EIMd-,
by Henry Jones and Henry Herman.
Prices of Admission—ss., 3s. and ONE SHILLING.
C Y O L O R A M A..
The Battle of Gettysburg.
Just added. New and Wonderful Effects:—Bugle Calls
Cannonading, Musketry Firing. Military Band every After-
noon and Evening. The Battlefield by Night: Gathering
Up the wounded in the glootn of night. The Dead March.
The Storttl: ThUnder, Lightning, Rain. Special effects,
3 and 8 p.tn. No matter if you have seen the Oyclorama
before, come again and see the wonderful effects. Bring
the children.
LECTURES HOURLY. OPEN DAILY, 10 to 10.
ONLY A SHILLING NOW!
Children Half-Price.
GRANDEST SIGHT IN AUSTRALIA.
JJ O N D I AQUARIUM,
Lessee and Manager .... ALFRED WYBURD.
OPEN DAY AND NIGHT.
The Most Popular
PICNIC and PLEASURE GROUNDS OF AUSTRALIA
The Famous Switchback Railway;
Splendid Asphalt Open-Air Skating-Rink Free to Visitors.
Admission, Is;; Children, 6d. Trams to Gate—Fare, 4d.
fiOOGSE PALACE AQUARIUM.
Lessee .... ... Wm. Larmour.
If visitors leave Sydney without seeing COOGEE and its
PALACE AQUARIUM, they will have missed the choicest,
loveliest and most charming spot in Australia.
There Is only One Coogee in Australia!
Come and breathe its healthy air, and see the 1001 attra-
tions in its enchanting Aquarium.
This Day (Saturday), Complimentary Benefit to W. F.
CORBETT. Monster programme in the Concert Hall.
Swimming Champions (ladies and gentlemen) in Marble
Swimming Bath. Aquatic Carnival on a grand scale.
Admission to everything, Is. Children, 6d.
gCHOOL OF ARTS.
GREAT SUCCESS! GREAT SUCCESS!
Every Evening at 8 p.m.
General and. Mira. IVEite
in their
DRAWING-ROOM ENTERTAINMENT.
Also,
—S IGH O -R ZIS KA—
in his Humouristic Entertainment
PRESTISSIMO—Causing Roars of Laughter NIGHTLY.
Prices—Chairs, 2s ; Stalls, Is ; Gallery, 6d.
Children, Half-price.
Matinees everv Monday, Wednesday and Saturday
• Afternoons AT 3 F.M.
rnHE NOAH’S AR.K! Gilbert J. Smith,
Wig Maker, Theatrical and Fancy Costumier,
Wigs, Historical and Fancy Dresses, Tights, Stage Jewel-
lery, and every requisite for Stage or Ball for Sale or Hire
or Made to Order. Estimates given for Dressing or Staging
Operas, Dramas, Comedies, Bazaars, Carnivals, etc., etc.
Grease, Paints and Make-up of every description. Country
orders receive prompt attention.
OILBEKT J. SMITH, Theatrical Costumier,
(opposite Criterion Theatre,)
297 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
« 11/FOUNT BISCHOFF SCHOTTISHE
IT I composed by Miss K. Fierce. Sold
Paling’s, George-street, Sydney.
Miscellaneous.
LU KS’ VICTORIA HOT EL,
Auckland, N.Z.,
Still in the hands of the old and well-known proprietor.
Bound to no man. Only the choicest liquors.
Sedlmayr’s Bavarian “ Spatcii,” “ Export”
and “Tafcl” Eager—SPECIALITY.
J£ATOOMBA FAMILY HOTEL.
JOSEPH IMIMMO
First-class Accommodation for Tourists and Families
Wires and Letters o be.addressed “Proprietor.”
Arrangements can be made to provide transit for persons
wishing to view the celebrated Jenolan Caves and
other places of interest.
CONSULT the Eminent
LADIES, Dr. SPEER,ork-st.,
Sydney,
PILLS (Guaranteed), 55., post free.
JAPANESE & INDIAN SHOW-ROOMS,
325 George Street, Sydney. 325
(Next Elvy's Music Warehouse).
Inspection Invited.
Japanese and China Silks and Crepes, Screens, Tables,
Fans, Curtains, Trays, Easels, Quilted Silk Dressing Gowns
Cotton Crapes, Piano Drapes, Blue Cloth for Dresses and
Suits, China, Tea Sets, Cabinets, etc. Miss Nellie Stewart’s’
Miss JanetAchureh’s, Mrs. Brown-Potter’s and Mr. Bel lew’s
Photos.
A, POUSE CO,, 326 George-st., Sydney.
Furniture, &c.
AND LAMB.
FURNITURE and PIANOFORTE
WAREHOUSEMEN,
CABINETMAKERS, UPHOLSTERERS
BEDDING MANUFACTURERS.
SHOW BOOMS AND MANUFACTORY t
SPRING AND O’CONNELL STREETS,
EASY CHAIRS, for Parlour, Library, or Bed-
rooms, new designs, covered to order, in
any material.
PIANOFORTES, by R. LTPP and SOHI
L. NEUFELD and other Celebrated
Makers at WHOLESALE PRICES. Newton
and Lamb.
■ BAGATELLE BOARDS, Portable, various
BEDROOM SUITES, complete, in various
Woods, and very handsome, designs, with
7 feet Wardrobes, of With smaller Wardrobes for
single rooms. Great variety,
NEWTON~7Nri LAM&
SPRING AND O’CONNELL STREETS.
BEDROOM SUITES, fashionable early
English designs—Wardrobe 4 feet, with
silvered plate-glass door : Washstand, with marble
top and tile back, Towel Rail; Toilet Table,
with Swing Glass attached; and Two Cane-
Seated Chairs, 14 guineas.
AND
sizes.
Furniture Warehousemen,
NEWTON & LAMS;
C’CoNNkLL and Spring Streets.
;p
CANVAS FOLDING
COTS, fdr camping
out. A cheap occasional
bed light, , strong, and
handy, 10s. 6d; .
Newton <fe LaMb;
DINING TABLES, with patent extending
screws, from 5 feet long and up to 20 feet.
WALNUT TELESCOPIC DINING
TABLES with extra leaves, strongly
made, £3 10s.
HALL FURNITURE, HATSTANDS and
CHAIRS. LARGE ASSORTMENT.
NEWTON & LAMB.
r IBRARY FURNITURE, CENTRE and
1 i SIDE TABLES, BOOKCASES, SECRE
TARIES, READING and LOUNGE CHAIRS,
OMMODE CHAIRS, BIDETS, with Pali,
SHAVING STANDS, NEWTON and
LAMB. ' . -- > r .Jj
TARANESE BLINDS, White or (Been (extra
quality), fitted with pulleys and cord, 6x8,
6s. 6d.; 8 x 8, 9s.; 9x8, 9s.. 6d.; 10x8, 10s. 6d.;
12 x 8, 12s. 6d.; 12 x i0, 15s. Newton & Lamb;
Furniture Warehousemen, Spring and O’Connell
Streets. • .
XpASY CHAIRS for Parlohr, Library or Bed;
B'.i rooms. New Designs covered to order ill
any material. Newton & Lamb.
ELF-ADJUSTING CHAIR and COUCR,
for Invalids and Medical Men;
T>OCKING EASY CHAIRS, elegant arid
ill restful—a speciality. Newton & LaMS,
p;
A
USTRIAN
CHAIRS
in
GREAT VARIETY.
NEWTON & LAMB.
p;
c
ANYAS FOLDING
CHAIRS.
Substantial and Light.
Suitable for Shipboard and
Verandah.
Price Very Low.
NEWTON and LAMB
Furniture Warehousemen,
Spring and O’Connell Streets.
GARDEN SEATS, 6ft. long, Rustic Cast-iron
Standards, 14s. 6d., 19s., 25s., 32s. od.
Newton and Lamb.
Yerandah chairs. w „_ q
INDIAN LONG ARM LOUNGES.
1 > ATTAN” YERANDAH LOUNGES, from
|\i 15s. ; and large variety of Chairs, from
10s. 6d. ; special designs, extra quality. Newton
and Lamb, Furniture Warehousemen, Spring and
O’Connell Streets. _
■jjj” E W T O N A N D LAMB.
FURNITURE and PIANOFORTE
WAREHOUSEMEN,
CABINETMAKERS, UPHOLSTERERS
AND
BEDDING MANUFACTURERS.
Show Rooms and Manufactory;
SPRING and O’CONNELL STREETS,


Insist upon having Wolfe’s Schnapps.
The original genuine article —Wolfe’s Schnapps.
Buy Wolfe’s Schnapps by the bottle.
Melbourne advt :—
TF James Dwyer does not communicate with his
■*- wife she will do as she likes. Address, Melbourne
Post Office.
And if James does communicate it is ten chances
to' one that she will do something that he won’t
like. Probably the safest course that gentleman
can adopt is to keep dark and await further
developments.
Wolfe’s Schnapps—for the liver and kidneys.
You really ought to drink Wolfe’s Schnapps.
Use Batho's Baking Powder.
Use Batho's Baking Powder.
WHEN THE KEOGH Is thin or impart
©very organ and fibre of Hie body becomes en«
feebled and less capable of resisting prevailing
diseases. Among the indications of depraved
blood are boils, carbuncles, pimples, eruption*,
sore eyes, ulcers, tumors, and glandular su ch
ings. To strike at the root of these evils,
cleanse the blood with Ayer’s Sarsaparilla.
This medicine has maintained its world-wide
reputation, for nearly half a century, as the
Standard Blood"Fyrifier.
It is a highly.concentrated extract of the most
powerful vegetable alteratives and tonics. The
most effective remedy for scrofula, it is equally
beneficial in gout, rheumatism, catarrh, and
dyspepsia, also in liver and kidney com-
plaints. A medicine for men, women,
and children. Be sure and ask for
Ayers Sarsaparilla
PREPARED BY
Dr. J. C. AYER & CO., Lowell, Mass., U. S. A.
Sold by Druggists aud Medicine Vendors.
SSrf:
m
V'
First Quality, Mesi ? s Tweed Suits -35 s
Fxtra Quality, do. do* 40s.
Special Quality do. 50s.
Send lor Samples.
30,000
Wolfe’s Schnapps—It is grand.
Wolfe’s Schnapps—look for £1 orders.
-vV
A \ • I (•I
W W W * f (LIMITED
IS the most complete and perfect Instrument ever offered at the price,
Seven Octaves, Fu,U Trichord, Iron Frame, Patent Check Action. Buaaft
Pin Plate, Cross-strung, requiring only the minimum of tuning. | The lone
is powerful, clear, brilliant and pur* In very elegant Black and 6old uf
Walnut Case* '
This Piano is introduced by W. II PALIXQ & CO., Lnirrrn, for the
purjjose of meeting a long-felt demand for a good, instrument at an
easy price, and thereby giving to the head of almost every household an
opportunity of sijpplying his home with a firaVciaas Piano at a price bemoforo
( paid for ft* much Inferior instrument, A
l'JtaUnstM'-mO'J Depth 2-m-J
If out of sorts try Wolfe’s Schnapps.
fs & solid handsome cake of
sroMing soap which has no equal
for all cleaning purposes exceptih
jrhe laundry-To use it* is to value it-
What will SAPOLIO do? Why it will clean paint, make oil-cloths
bright, and give the floors, tables and shelves a new' appearance. It will
take the grease off the dishes and off the pots and pans. You can scour
the knives and forks with it, and make the tin things shine brightly. The
wash-basin, the bath-tub, even the greasy kitchen sink will be as clean as
a new pin if you use SAPOLIO. One cake will prove all we say. Be a
clever housekeeper and try it.
BEWARE OP IMITATIONS. THERE IS BUT ONE SAPOLIO.
BHOm mo ßQ&ss’S SOUS e©, o YORK.
SOLD BY GROCERS, CHEMLS'iS, AND IRONiUONnCRS.
Shopping by Post
THE
ORIEUT CLOTH! 11 IS
FOS
Boys’ and Men’s
Summer Wear
SEND FOR A
h
mi
POST FREE.
All Parents should try the ORIENT
CLOTHING for their Boys’
School and Best
Wear.
GEORGE STREET,'
Opposite G.P.O.
. s it u 3sr :e izr.
DAVID JONES & CO
ORIENT CLOTHIERS
;p
J- SO each -{
50,000
•700 EXTK t 700
REGISTER YOUR LETTERS and ADDRESS U TATTERS ALL,”
C/o GEORGE ADAMS, “ Tatter sail’s/' ,W
Wolfe’s Schnapps should be in every house.
If your liver troubles you take Wolfe’s
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
L=
T
< i
VI
CASHMERE BOUQUET
TOILET SOAP
Is made with the 'utmost care from material
selected with the
GREATEST RFOARD FOR PURIFY,
And for the soothing and beneficial effect which
they impart to the skin and the complexion.
Gold. Medal, Paris, 1880
“ Unexcelled in Quality and Perfume.”
Notice to Artistic and Literary Contributors.
Strictly Original matter contributed to The Bulletin
will be paid fur. The Editor will be glad to receive and
consider contributions as under : —
1. Original humorous or political matter, illustrated or
otherwise. (Drawings must be made in clean lines
of Indian ink on white paper or Bristol-board.)
0. Unpublished anecdotes of living celebrities, or people
who ought to be celebrated.
S. Humorous poems (from eight to forty-eight lines pre-
ferred ).
U. Serious poems, of similar or greater length, especially
those suitable for pictorial illustration.
5. Short Australian or other stories, up to, say, 3
'words. About half that length, or even less,wil
he preferred.
All Contributions must be Written Legibly, on One
Side Only of the paper, and folded, not rolled. 2 he
name and address of the writer must appear, in all
tases, on the MS. itself, and not merely on an accompany-
ing letter or paper. The Proprietors do not hold them-
selves responsible for Dejected Contributions ; but, ij
accompanied by a stamped and addressed envelope or
wrapper, every effort unit be made to return them.
The Editor does not undertake to enter into any
correspondence respecting rejected Manuscripts.
Specimen N.Q. journalism : —“ When the
history of leprosy in Queensland is published
Inspector Murray will probably learn for the first
time that there is a leprous gin living in the
Chinese camp at the foot of Mount Cook, whose
mongrel progeny are likely to decimate both
hybrid x’aces.”
John Burns says that the old Unionists
were physically larger than the new, and were
attired so “respectably ” in high hats, black coats,
and thick watch chains that they presented an
aldermanic appearance. Owing to the greater
intensity of toil during the last thirty years, the
“new” delegates look like workmen and dress
like workmen.
FREETRADE or PROTECTION.
Some vote Protection, some Freetrade,
As best for this young country’s weal.
But ask the youth or blushing maid,
And each will answer — Pemell’s Meal 1
As best, because it has been tried,
There’s nothing half so good beside.
His Golden Meal is what I mean,
’Tis good and pure and cheap, I wean;
Many in and out of the city will be pleased to
know that Crf.elman and Co., photographers in
the Sydney Arcade, have reduced their charges
for photographs. Cabinets now 15s. per dozen.
We notice with pleasure that the Equitable
Mortgage, Discount, and Deposit Bank, of 4
Moore-street, Sydney, has recently been incor-
porated, and is now opened for business. This
bank has been formed for the purpose of assisting
those who may at any time be in pecuniary diffi-
culties and wish to avoid paying the excessive in-
terest which is too often charged. The bank has
secured the able services of Mr. Henry A. Birk-
myre, which shou’d be a guarantee that clients will
be fairly dealt with. In these days of extortion, the
above institution should about fill a long-felt
want.*
The Shannon File and Transfer Cases are
indispensable to the modern business or profes-
sional office. They pay their cost in a week in
time and temper saved. W. M. Maclardv, 31!)
George-street, Sydney.
How to Grow Rich. —Invest in land at Perth,
W.A. Plans from Intercolonial Investment Co.,
Limited, 90 Bathurst-stroet, Sydney.
C harlemont and Co., high art photographers,
Royal Arcade, altogether owe their measure of
success to the fact that the merits of their photo-
graphy are always of a high order.
Give the London & Sydney Tea Co, one trial,
they guarantee satisfaction.
Colemank and Sons sugar-coated Eucalypte
Pil's. Al o, Eucalypte Lozenges. Try them.
An old soldier, Legging alms, bears a
board thus inscribed: “ Engagements, 8 ; wounds,
10; children, 6j total, 24.”
The largest gold coin in circulation is the
“ loof ” of Annam, value £65. “ Loof,” in Scotch,
means the palm of the hand. , The Annamese
“loof ” is the coin to palm.
A Queensland scalpel’, whose leg had been
fractured by a fall from his horse, after four days
and nights exposure without food or water,
managed to crawl to his camp, distant four and a-
half miles, and thence was taken to Bareaidine
hospital.
Wolfe’s Schnapps, the purest spirit procurable
If in need of a stimulant take Wolfe’s Schnapps,
A priest of Uhu, in China, was recently
burned to death on a straw-stack saturated with
oil for misconduct with a young lady of the choir.
Are you listening, Mr. Gardiner ?
Wolfe’s Schnapps—popularity increases yearly.
Camille Desmoulins : “As a youth I lost
my belief in a future life, but the troubles of the
world forced it upon me until I got married,
when my perfect happiness led me to disbelieve
that there could be anything better.” Ultimately
he was guillotined, and his wife followed, rtobe-
spierre and Brissot were witnesses at the
riage as Desmoulins’ friends, but he helped to
send Brissot to the scaffold, and Robespierre sent
him there.
WHAT EXPERIENCE TEACHES
IS BEST.
There is something to consider in the daily
expenses for the household necessities, which in
the aggregate of the year amount to a good deal.
The ethics of buying and selling appear to be for
the vendor to get all he can, and for the purchaser
to see that he don’t get too much. But what i s
too much ? It is almost a profound question, and
presents the strange paradox that the dearest in
many things is often the cheapest. Certainly this
is so in food, when health is involved, and in
remedies which restore health after it has been
impaired. It is certainly so in clothing; for a
cheap suit that will hardly last one season is dearer
than the one which will last two seasons, the
difference in price being reasonable. So in shoes
and the like. Recurring to the items of food and
health, undoubtedly the most important, it is
found that villainous adulteration is what renders
cheap much that is sold, and men are
known who have spent thousands to be cured of
disease, have suffered years of agony, and have
trifled away their substance on worthless remedies.
That which is testified to by thousands as being
an absolute cure, and permanently efficacious, is
cheap at any price in comparison with such as
have no virtue, and which prolong suffering. A
case in point is the following : “New Bloomfield,
Pa., April 26, 1886. The Charles A. Yogeler Co.,
Baltimore, Md. Gentlemen, —For more than
thirty years I had been afflicted with rheumatism
so severe I had to use morphine to secure rest at
night. Spent hundreds of dollars with physicians
and for remedies without benefit. Five years ago
I tried St. Jacobs oil, and it effected an entire and
permanent cure. I have not been troubled with t
since. Cold or damp weather does not affect me
at all. I desire to give it my unqualified endorse
ment.—J. E. Bonsall, clerk of the several Courts
of Perry County, Pa.” The point here is not so
much what Mr. Bonsall paid for the great remedy
for pain, for the price is a mere bagatelle,' but that
he was permanently cured after 30 years’ suffering.
Of course the poor must count the cost in every-
thing ; but they should reckon on the sound basis
that that which is bad is worthless, and that
which is the best and will cure, and stay cured, is
cheap at any price.
A TEXAS SIFTING.
F. G. Presby, Marshall, Texas, April 14, ’9O,
writes the Waterbury Watch Co. as follows: —
“ Though a stranger to you, I wish to let you
know something-that happened to me in the
spring of 1889 on account of one of your Water-
bury Watches. I left my home'in Pensacola City,
Fla., to find a new one farther west. Coming to
llnver, Colo., and having travelled all over the
Rocky Mountains without any watch in my
pocket, as I was coming one day from my place to
Denver, Colo., after I had got my place in order,
I came to look over the city. My intention was
to go to Kansas City, Mo. I passed one watch-
maker’s store on Lariraer-street, in Denver, and
saw there a watch in the window for only 2dol.
50c. I went in and I bought one, paid, the money
for it, and left the city next day for Kansas City,
Mo., in the 1 p.m. train. After I was about one
hour's ride from the city the conductor of the
train came and took a seat by my side.
I asked the conductor the _ time, and as a
gentleman he told rno the time, and I said I
also have my watch to tell me the time. As soon
as the gentleman (conductor) of the train espied
my watch he commenced to laugh, and told me at
the same time that he could get a bushel of such
trash aS Waterbury Watches, all he wanted, for
one dollar, while I had paid 20dol 50e. But I did
not lose my courage, and told the conductor that
I would bet a cigar, only first that I was not a
betting man, and secondly that my Waterbury
Watch for 2.50d0l was just as good as an Elgin or
any other 250.00d0l watch, in regard to keeping
good time. The conductor accepted the bet.
Nearing Kansas City next day I notified the con-
ductor about our bet. When we reached Kansas
City my 2.50d0l Waterbury Watch was correct
and the conductor’s watch from Elgin, 111., was H
minutes behind time, so the Waterbury Watch
won the bet. I have received the cigar, have set
fire to it, and am enjoying the smoke.”


Companies.
The British anil New South Wales Investment
and Financial Co., Limited.
Incorporated under the Companies’ Act, 1871.
Capital, £250,000.
Sydney Office : 246 PITT STREET.
"DILLS DISCOUNTED and Immediate Advances granted
Daily. Country communications promptly attended
to. The following Rates of Interest are allowed for Fixed
Deposits:—
3 Years
12 Months
6 Months
3 Months
10 per cent.
9 per cent.
8 per cent.
7 per cent.
With a Guaranteed Bonus on Renewals of Twelve Months
and over.
By order of the Board,
0. E. CUTTEN, Acting Manager.
THE
Australian Banking Company
Of SYDNEY.
Authorised Capital, £250,000, in 50,000 Shares of £5 each.
Capital Paid-up, £100,300; Capital Subscribed, £150,000.
Scad Office i Pitt & Market Streets, Sydney,
Board of Directors :
Francis Abigail, Esq., M.P., Chairman; Add. S. G. Davison,
J.P.; T. H. Hassell, Esq., M.P.; William Bull, Esq., J.P.;
Robt. Cunningham Esq.
GOULBURN BRANCH: AUBURN STREET,
C. H. Atkinson, Manager.
A dividend at the rate of 10 per cent, (the last) declared
on July 29, will be payable on and after the 14th August.
The Bank transacts all usual banking business in every
particular. Board davs, Wednesday and Friday. Special
advantages granted to Commercial Clients. Overdrafts
granted against deposit of Deeds without mortgage.
The Highest Rates of Interest given for
Fixed Deposits.
Interest allowed on Current Accounts calculated on the
Minimum Monthly Balances.
By order of the Board of Directors.
RODERICK M'NAMARA, General Manager.
THE WAY TO WEALTH.
The way to wealth is as plain as the way to market.
The majority of the wealthy men of Sydney, Melbourne
and Brisbane made their money by buying land in these
capital cities while it was low in price, and before these
cities were so large and populous as at present. ?
■Westeria. Australia
is the coming colony. Her Capital City will become
a second Melbourne or Sydney.
If you want to make money, buy land
there now. It is a good spec.
GRAND BUILDING SITES AT PERTH,
WESTERN AUSTRALIA,
FROM £IO TO £5O.
TERMS, jrom £1 Deposit. Very easy payments,
NOTE. —The allotments offered are in picked posi-
tions, they have been inspected by us, and are guaranteed
good.
Write for Marked Plans to
The INTERCOLONIAL (Western Australian)
INVESTMENT COMPANY, Ltd.,
9C BATIIIRST STREET, SYDNEY, N.B.W.
W. J. DOUGLAS, Manager.
Medical.
DISEASES
OF THE
EYE EAR, NOSE,
THROAT &c.
enuine cubes of
DEAFNESS, BLINDNESS, &c.
READ what the South Australian Religious Press say
concerning Dr. RAYMOND’S Skill and Treatment
“ During his residence in this colony we have had full
opportunity of making Mr. Raymond’s acquaintance, and
of observing the cures he has performed, and we have no
hesitation in saying- that in our opinion he is a genuine
man and a skilled physician. We have come personally
into contact with a number of persona that have been
cured by him of eye and ear diseases of a complicated and
difficult character, so that we speak from actual know-
ledge and observation. Professor Raymond is a botanic
physician ; he uses no mineral drugs, and his treatment is
painless and uninjurious.”— The Christian Colonist,
Adelaide, 1889.
The FOLLOWING CURE thathas just been EFFECTED
in SYDNEY not only supports what has been done else-
where, but illustrates the superiority of Dr. RAYMOND’S
method of combating difficult and complicated affections
of the Human ear: —
“To Dr. RAYMOND, Aurist, Oculist, and Botanic
Physician. . , , .
“ Dear Sir,—ln response to your request, I desire to
publicly testify to the benefit I have received from your
treatment. You have considerably improved my hearing
and general health, although I had previously been under
the treatment of one doctor in Sydney, and been in con-
sultation with several others. I had also used Nicholson’s
ear drums, lotion and nose powder, and without receiving
the slightest benefit therefrom. You have treated my
case, nose and throat deafness, botanically ; and, in my
opinion, your system is the right one—you, at the same
time, attacking the root of the disease with internal treat-
ment. I shall be happy to answer any enquiries as to the
benefit I have received whilst under your treatment.—
Yours, very truly. H. TAYLOR, Palisade Hotel, Millers
Point,’November 14th, 1890.”
Dr. G-. H RAYMOND,
THE EMINENT SPECIALIST IN
Diseases of the Eye, Ear, Nose Sc Throat,
AND PROFESSOR OF MEDICAL BOTANY,
Author of “A Treatise on the Diseases of the Eye and
Ear,” “A Practical and Scientific Disertation on the Merits
and’oemerits of Artificial Ear Drums,” “ Giving Sight to
the Blind,” &c., may now be consulted at
62 WYNYABD-SQUARE, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
p*
□
9
Is
UNKIND.
Mrs. Riverside Rives {nie Oleever)
—“You don’t mean to tell me
that Stuyvesant Van Knioker is
really engaged to that Miss Brown?
I wonder at his taste —a girl of
absolutely no family.”
Mb. Rives.— “ That is very true, dear ;
but you know she is really very
pretty; and, as for family, per-
haps your father might remedy
that. I believe he used to adver-
tise ‘ families supplied.’ ” —Ex.
i'/ , V
6*^-
HOTEL 1 1;
■. -,
Si 3»
I X
SS!W
Royal ECotell T. BROWN, Proprietor. [Randwick.
Specially adapted for Families. 8®" Trams Stop at Door.
Aarons’ Excliange Hotel, Sydney
=?■
*
ms
f p.Tßlfl PHOTQ-EUO. oft-. 6 BBU)Ct-SL.»,SYII)U<>
Adjoining the Sydney Exchange.
lining, Financial and General Mercantile Intelligence
Posted several times DAILY in the Building.
TELEGRAPH, POST and MONEY ORDER OFFICES on the PREMISES.
-(••)-
This Hotel has been thoroughly renovated and re-furnished, and is now unrivalled for comfort
and attention.
Aarons’ Exchange Hotel Co. (Limited), Proprietors.
THE
‘ Plum *
pro
THE
4 Plum *
THIS brand of Razor is something superior to anything that has ever been offered to the public.
Pure hollow ground, beautiful silver steel, and rings like a bell; set ready for use, and we
guarantee each razor for two years. It never requires grinding, and to gentlemen who shave them-
selves they cannot possibly do better tqan to try this particular brand.
Price
Y Single Razor, in strong leather case,' 10/6 Pair, in beautiful morocco leather case, 21/-
\ Single Razor, in ivory handle, 15/-; Pair Razors, ivory handles, in beautnul case, 30/-
Registered and sent post free to any part of the Australian Color ies.
AG s S?s.
CRAIG & AITKEN, 630 George Street, Sydney.
JONES’ SEWING MACHINES,
FOR THE BOOT AND TAILORING TRADES.
THE BEST MANUFACTURING MACHINES IN EXISTENCE.
Now Perfected, the New No. 3 and No. 4 Machines on an Entirely New System.
STOCK JUST LANDING.
parlelgh, Netthelm, & Co.,
TANNERS AND LEATHER MERCHANTS,
16 + YOB PU - STBEE T, - STUN-EY.
Sole Agents for the above for New South Wales and Queensland.
(x)
ALSO Importers of Requisites for the BOOT MANUFACTURING TRADEin alli Details, me hiding MACHINERY,
IMPORTED LEATHERS, &c. ; and of the following Special Lines : Peerless Gloss, SHtiii Polish, Nubian
fanners’ Tools and Materials, Indents Executed on Favourable Terms
Medical.
or the Liquor Habit (in any iorm) POSITIVELY
and RAPIDLY CURED by administering
the world-renowned
“ GOLDEN SPECIFIC,”
prepared according to the formula of DR. HAINES.
It can he given in a cup of coffee or tea, or in food, either
WITH OR WITHOUT THE KNOWLEDGE of the patient »
necessary; it is absolutely harmless, and will effect a permanent
and speedy cure, whether the patient is a moderate drinker or
alcoholic wreck. IT NEVER FAILS. THOUSANDS PROVE
IT. It operates so quietly and with such certainty that tiio
patient undergoes no inconvenience, and ere he is aware his
complete reform is effected. Write for Book, sent with full
particulars and Colonial testimonials free by return.
BEWARE of worthless imitations and plagiarisms of
our Advertisements. We have no Agents.
Note our Sole Address :
GOLDEN SPECIFIC CO.
145 & 147 Collins St., MELBOURNE, Yio.
c
m*
Cre
LOtJ
8
EST
rpHIS valuable Lotion is guaranteed to cure SWELLING
and SANDY BLIGHT, INFLAMED EYES and LIDS
DIMNESS OF SIGHT, &c. It will be found very bene-
ficial and cooling to those who have weak eyes, or whose
work compels them to strain their eyes. Highly
recommended by the leading Oculists.
Manufactured only by the Proprietor,
lEE. J&-. ROSE
Dispensing and Manufacturing Chemist,
531 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Wholesale by the Proprietor and all Wholesale Houses.
Established 1858. By Post 3s. 6d.
J3T" Manufacturer of Dr. SOUTHAN’S GOUT and
RHEUMATIC PILLS.
Has neen known for 100 years as the best preserver
and beauiifler of the hair : it prevents it falling off or
turning grey, strengthens weak hair, and eradicates
scurf and dandruff; it is unsurpassed as a brillianiine
for the beard and moustaches. t«> which it imparts a
soft and silky appearance : it is also sold in a golden
colour for fair-haired children.
Rowland’s
Kalydor
a soothing and emollient milk tor the face, and is most
cooling to the skin in hot climates; if removes freckles,
tan.* sunburn. roughn“Bs and ■’redness of the skin,
pimples, cutaneous eruptions, &0., and promises soli
fair skip, and a lovely delicate complexion.
ROWLAND'S ESSENCE CF TKRE, a harmless preparation
for dyeing red or grey hair a permanent brown or
black, a Ask ..chemists and druggistsjor Rowland’s
articles.!. .
The'extraordinary reputation of Rowland’s Macassar
Oil, Kalydor and Odopto, induces some shopkeepers to
offer spurious imitations under the lure of being cheap;
the principle on which each is prepared « « on “» ea
solely to the knowledge of A. Rowland & Sons, of*.
Hatton Garden, 1 London, and therefore it is htgmy
necessary to buy no Macassar Oil. Kalydor or Odoms
except those made by them,’end .which bear , tnei/
name in red ink on the wrappers.
IVTERVOTJS SUFFERERS, from secret ot
1\ other causes, consult PROFESSOR
MUMFORD. You will not regret it, but con-
sider it a blessing you saw this notice. 21 Bourke-
st. East, near White Hart Hotel, Melbourne.
Business Announcements.
NOW ACKNOWLEDGED
THE BEST
IN THE MARKET
WHISK^
iorM'w
SOLD
EVERYWHERE
Sole Agents: JAMESMOIR&CO., 58Mnrgaret-st,Sydney
N
OTICE.- W. BUSHELL is not authorised
to represent The Bulletin in any way.


DENMARK PILLS
Unequalled, Unexcelled, Unsurpassed and Guaranteed to Cure all Blood and Nervous Diseases, Discovered, Registered and Prepared
By HERR HASSMUSSEM, the”[celebrated Danish Herbalist,
Eegisterei.
mm
DENMARK
%
4a
%
%
4
%
\
\
%
%
%
A
%
%
%
:s %
A
Micefl
# Lltl
<0
il#
os■0 $■
# s#l
f 1
r
#
pf# E
mm *
Besidb
ITALUY
A Guaranteed Cure
tor 'Nervous Debility and
Lost Vitality.
225. 6d. per Course.
Smaller Box ss. 6d.
Posted - 23/6 and 6/-
Oatxly ECertoalist in Australia
Who has received “Gold Medal” for Great Cures Performed, and is Honourably Mentioned in the “Centennial History of New South Walea
for Great Herbal Discoveries; and who can prove that he has CURED OYER 20,000 SUFFERERS with his Remedies.
Sole Proprietor and Discoverer of the Celebrated
VITALITY PILLS, Reg-isterea
Which have been the means of Curing so many Thousands of Sufferers from Nsvvous Debility, Lost Vitality, Errors, Weakness, Despondency,
Impure Blood. 225. 6d. per Course ; Smaller Box, ss. 6d. Posted, 23/6 and 6/-
G-ems.iiie T estimonials.
To HERR RASSMUSSEN.—Dear Sir, —This is to certify that your
remedies cured me of a very serious blood disease, after many doctors
had failed.—JOHN REYNOLDS, Chappel-street, Leichhardt, Sydney
To HERE RASSMUSSEN, the celebrated Danish Herbalist.—Dear
Benefactor, I have much pleasure to inform the public that your
remedies cured my wife of an interna! complaint of a very serious
after a]l the doctors had given her up.—ARCHIBALD
MAC! ARLANE, Eden Cottage, Barney-street, Armidale.
.T° HERR RASSMUSSEN, Siiecialist in Nervous Diseases. Dear
bu', I hereby thank you for the great cure your remedies performed
on me for a very complicated nervous affection, and I shall always
recommend you to sufferers from Nervous Debility. THOS.
MUDIMAN, Merchant Tailor, King Street, Newtown.
To HERR RASSMUSSEN, Danish Herbalist.—Dear Sir and B-ene-
factor,- it gives me great pleasure to testify to your wonderful skill
in the treatment of Disease. Your remedies cured me of a terrible
complaint after the doctors gave me up, and although it is four years
since, lam as well as ever. I shall recommend your remedies to all.—-
Yours, gratefully, A. RAMSDEN, Great Western Coffee Palace, Castle-
reagh-street, Sydney.
To HERB RASSMUSSEN, Specialist in Nervous Diseases.—Dear
° u ’> I hereby certify that I have been under your skilful treatment
tor a very obstinate case of nervous debility, and that your remedies
one course of you r Vitality Pills being sufficient.—D.
M NEILL, Hornsby Junction, N.S.W.
m
Opinions of tiie Press.
It is a well-known fact that HERR RASSMUSSEN, the Celebrated
Danish Herbalist, has performed many great cures during the past few
years, as his numerous testimonials will prove.—Sydney Bulletin. ■
HERR RASSMUSSEN.—We have been shown some excellent Testi-
monials of the great cures performed by Herr Rassmussen, the cele-
brated Danish Herbalist.— Australian Star.
HERR RASSMUSSEN has now been established in the colonies
for 10 years.— Sunday Times, April 28, 1888.
HERR RASSMUSSEN has become a celebrity in the curing of all
diseases of the nervous system. His name has become a wonder
throughout the Southern Hemisphere. He was presented with a Gold
Medal for some of his miraculous cures.— Balmain Leader, May 12,1888.
HERR RASSMUSSEN.—The remarkable cures which he has effected
are pretty generally known.— Balmain Observer, April 28, 1888.
We are perpetually receiving letters irom HERR RASSMUSSBN’S
cured.patients requesting us to make known to the public the wonder-
ful medical skill this remarkable man possesses, and he has just been
presented with a Gold Medal from several of his cured patients.
—Sydney Weekly News, May 26, 1887.
HERR RASSMUSSEN, the Danish Herbalist, has shown us some
highly complimentary testimonials, which he has received, certifying
to a number of important cures effected by his remedies.— Sydney
Evening News, March 7,189 C.
HeriE- Rassmussen’s Herbal Remeclies. (REGISTERED.)
DENMARK VITALITY PlLLS.—Guaranteed to cure Nervous Debility, Lost Vitality, Errors of Youth and Despondency. Price, 225. 6d. per full course ; small box, ss. 6d.
DENMARK FEMALE RESTORER PILLS.-Guaranteed to cure all complaints peculiar to Females, Irregularities, and eradicates complaints which’cause barrenness!
Price, 225. 6d. per course ; small box, ss. 6d. Posted, 235. 6d. and 6s.
DENMARK LOCK CURE PlLLS.—Guaranteed to Cure all diseases of the blood, discharges, sores, and strictures. Price, 22/6 per course • small box 5/0 Posted 23/6 and 6/-
t«r BStS'.fSfWS,** 4 10 "" HWH Indigestion, wind, Hertlurn, and .11
complaints peculiar to the Liver and Kidneys. Is. and 2s. 6d. per box. Posted, Is. 6d. and 3s.
DENMARK HAIR and SKIN BEAUTlFlER.—Guaranteed to cure all Affections of the Skin, and prevents the Hair from turnin" arev
2s. 6d. per packet. Posted, 3s. = 8 ’’
Excellent for the complexion.
All the above remedies are made of PURE HERBS only, and are forwarded unobserved. A valuable treatise on Nervous Debility, Private Complaints, and Barrenness,
sent free, on receipt of Od stamped addressed envelope. Consultation by post, free. Patients’ blood and urine, when sent by post, are examined with the aid of the Microscope.
Address :
Herr RASSMUSSEN, the Danish Herbalist,
208, General Post Office, Sydney.
All correspondence strictly confidential. Register all letters containing money.
All the above Remedies may also be obtained personally at 58 ROYAL ARCADE, PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
$
DENMARK
Ull\£
&
\
%
%
%
%
r A>
IV
%
%
fa
w
p;
I
*
E
s
I
0
s
T
V
I
I
ft
L
1
f
V
$0
jit
0
✓
OS&‘
✓
# v
(0
msm
IBIS'
ITALUY
A Guaranteed Cure
for Nervous Debility and
Lost Vitality.
225. 6d, per Course.
Smaller Box ss. 6d.
Posted - 23/6 and 6/,
Medical,
SPECIAL
MEDICAL NOTICE.
In all Long-Standing and Chronic Com-
plicated Cases of Diseases
CONSULT
OP
172 & 174 WILLIAM STREiET,
MELBOURNE.
The Only Naturally Qualified Consulting Herbalist
of the present Century, and
Who Has Cured
More Oases of CHRONIC DISEASE than any
Ten Medical Men in Australia.
VW ALL CONSULTATIONS FREE.
Notice.—lf preferred, a signed agreement given, which
provides that no cost is incurred in the event of a cure
not being effected.
Sufferers can he treated equally well at any distance and
in any part of the world. Write fully a description of case
and symptoms, and mention this paper.
SWORN CERTIFICATE.— One of Thousands more.
Noble-street, Newton, Geelong,
10th December, 1888.
To H. F. Kugelma.nn, Esq.
Dear Sir,—This is to certify that I, Patrick Keenan, was
taken ill about three years ago with a severe cold, which
turned into Bronchitis and became chronic. I consulted
wore than one doctor , and during that time took a great
ijl lantity Of medicine without it doing me the slightest
good, but I became worse every day, wasting away until
I became a perfect skeleton. About February last I began
to spit up blood, and what with the cough and severe
pains in my left lung, and the quantity of bad matter I
was expectorating every day, I became very much alarmed.
Hearing of your professional skill I consulted you, and
you told me you could cure me for a given sum. I agreed
and went under your treatment in March last. At the
end of three months I was taken bad one morning, and
vomited about two pints of blood, matter and stringy
phlegm. From that time I commenced to improve, and
was gaining in weight every day. About a month ago the
blood ceased coming, the cough disappeared, and the
lung healed completely, and thank God and your pro-
fessional skill, I am as well as ever.
P. KEENAN.
Declared and subscribed before me, one of Her Majesty’s
Justices of the Peace, for the Southern Bailiwick, in the
County of Grant, this 10th day of December, 1888.
Peter Smytiik, .T.P.
A POSITIVE CURE.
T\R. BOHANNAN’S Curative Remedies for all Private
-L' Nervous, and Special Complaints. Always reliable.
Descriptive chart sent, sealed, for two stamps. Address
Hotel Metropole Pharmacy, Phillip-street, Sydney,
N.S.W.
A
GOLDEN SHANTY
PRICE: ONE SHILLING.
Business Announcements.
Ewing’s Indelible
marking* Ink.
First Prize:
MELBOURNE EXHIBITION.
Approved and Patronised by Vice-Royalty and
tub Elite ok the Australasian Colonies.
Report of the Government Analytical Chemist . ‘I have examined Ewing’s Indelible Marking Ink,
for marking linen, etc. It is very good, the writing done With it resisting all attempts to wash out.
It may be well-recommended.—Signed, Wm.- Johnston.”
All Wholesale and Retail Chemists, Stationers, Drapers. In oases, Is. Proprietor, T. A. Ewing 1 ,
Chemist (by appointment) to His Excellency, Brunswick-street, Eitzroy, MELBOURNE,
ALLAN A. MARSHALL & CO.,
Engineers, Coppersmiths, Brass and Belt, Founders,
Finishers, Plumbers, Ship & General Smiths,
Gasfitters, Art & Medi asval Metal Worker
ROLLER SKATES (any make) with BRASS or M OOBEJf WHEELS.
Verity’s Gas Fires, Heaters and Ventilators at greatly Reduced Prices—ll,ooo Fires already in use
Importers-and' Manufacturers of Diving Gear, Yacht and Boat Work of every description in
Iron or Brass, Ships’ Single and Double Action Valve Closets, Fire Hydrants, Hose and all appliances
Bon Accord Works, 9 Macquarie Place, Sydney.
CLARENDON HOTEL, MANLY,
(OPPOSITE OCEAN BEACH),
The Brigliton. of Soutli Wales,
A most Comfortable High-class Establishment, Excellent Table, Large well ventilated Dining,
Sitting and Bedrooms, Magnificent Scenery. Every facility for Picnic and Fishing Parties, specially
suitable for Families.
BEST BRANDS OF WINES, SPIRITS, &c., BILLIARD TABLE.
o
TABLE D'HOTE DAILY AT 1 O'CLOCK.
o
KILMiIUNSTJbJ-tHL ... Proprietress.
p;p
k
Purchasers should see that the Label on every bottle of the original
WORCESTERSHIRE SAUCE
bears the Signature, thus :
Ask for Lea & Perkins’ Sauce, and see Name on Wrapper, Label, Bottle and Stopper.
Wholesale and for Export by the Proprirto \ Worcester; Crosse ft Blackwell, London, se., sc.;
and bu Grocers and nlmcn throughout the World.
Medical.
!ii
A. 11., M.D., C.M., F.R.0.5., Ed.; M.R.0.5., Eng.,
157
( ELIZABETH STREET,
J *
\ Sydney.
157
Dr. PATERSON has been engaged for over
Twenty Years in the study and practice of
QHRONIC, ERVOUS,
AND
Special Diseases
Of Men and Women in the leading Medical Schools ana
Hospitals of Great Britain, Paris, Berlin and Vienna, and
in private practice. Formerly House Surgeon to the
Edinburgh Royal Infirmary, Maternity and Lock Hospitals.
No medical man advertising in these colonies has medical
degrees which can be compared with his. Such eminent
qualifications, together with his recognised straightfor-
ward treatment, has naturally gained for him the reputa-
tion of being the
ONLY LEGALLY QUALIFIED DOCTOR
advertising in these colonies who combines with special
Knowledge Honest Treatment, as may easily be ascer-
tained by applying to any leading paper in the colony.
No diseases cause so much misery and distress as those
included in my speciality.
All Men Young and Old.
Suffering from the results of early follies or ex-
cesses, indigestion, foul mouth, costiveness, palpi-
tation, singing and pains in the ears and head,
specks before the eyes, giddiness, weakened
memory, pains in the back and chest, varicocele,
diseases of the bladder, kidneys, or liver, rheuma-
tism, impure blood, weakening discharges, impaired
vigor, sterility, premature decay, stricture, nervous-
ness, groundless fears, bashfulness, lassitude, and
NERVOUS DEBILITY, should lose no time in
consulting him, since he has, by long experience
and thorough investigation of their nature, dis-
covered the safest treatment for their permanent
cure. Persons residing at a distance may be treated
at their own homes, without any interruption to
their business, by giving a full and clear descrip-
tion of their symptoms, and the necessary medi-
cines will be forwarded to them. On receipt of
2s. 6d. he will forward his book on the “Male
Generative Function in Health and Disease,”
or of Is., his book on “ Nervous Debility."
Dr. Alex. Paterson,
157 Elizabeth St., Hyde Park, Sydney,
itar Consultation Free. ISt
6<b
&
o
■ °"--p
'<p
from
every flower that
breathes a fragrance
SWEET SCENTSII
LOXOTIS OPOPONAX/I
\FR A N GIP ANNIPSIDIU M/f
May be obtained
Of any Chemist or
Perfumer.
PftOiy-
** -if
Be ware of imitations; The genuine is signed
IBADE MARK .—MUSK DEER
['


WORMS IN CHILDREN
Effectually Cured hy
WATSON’S GINGER-
BREAD WORM NUTS, a perfectly safe and certain remedy,
in an agreeable form. Sold by . the leading Storekeepers, and
by ,he Proprietor, John Watson. Chemist, 581 George Street,
Sydney. In Boxes, la.; by Post, Is. 2d,
Wolfe’s Schnapps for lowness of spirits.
The popular liquor—Wolfe’s Schnapps.
Every bodynow-a-days drinks Wolfe’s Schnapps.
Wolfe’s Schnapps cheers the mind and body.
Government
['
Notices.
Department of Public Works,
Sydney, December 10, 1890.
END EPS FOE PUBLIC WORKS AND
For Conditions, see Government Gazette.
TENDERS for the Works, &c., specified below
will be received at this Department until 11 o'clock
a.m. on the dates mentioned.
WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 31.
Bridge, Mullamuddy Creek Road, Wallerwang, to
Mudgee (fresh tenders).
Bridge over Broughton or' Brown’s Creek at
Broughton Village
WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 7.
Bridge in Approach, Laybury Creek Bridge
Bridge over Termed Creek, Road Burril to Ulla-
dulla
Additions to Bridge, Myall Creek, road Btngera
to Warialda
Additions, &0., Post and Telegraph Office, Braid-
wood (fresh tenders)
Railway from Quarry at Green Point to Freeborn
Island, Clarence River
Repairs, Post and Telegraph Office, Gunning
Fencing, etc., and Tank, Court House, Broken
Hill (fresh tenders)
WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 21.
Construction, &c., of Railway Bridges, Leicester
and Wilson Creeks, Lismore-Tweed Railway
Construction of Ist Section Lismore-Tweed Rail-
way. (Plans, &c., to be seen after Ist Dec.)
SUPPLIES.
BRUCE SMITH.
Try the great American temperance drink, Sarsa-
parilla and Iron Water, at Star and Garter Hotel
and City Catering Company.*
The Christmas Number of the Austra-
lasian Builder and Contractors’ News will
contain 64 pages, nearly 30 illustrations, a hand-
some lithographed almanac, and a beautiful
coloured plate (suitable for framing), entitled
“The Builder’s Daughter’’—the whole bound in
a gold printed cover. Order copies at once from
the offices, 527 Kent-street, Sydney; Builders’
Exchange, Melbourne ; Messrs. Gordon & Gotch,
Brisbane; or of leading newsagents in every
Australasian city and town. New South Wales
stamps received. Price, Sixpence. One Guinea
per annum.*
Ladies’ Silver Watches, 35s. Daiims & Co., King-street.
Arcade.
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
To cure skin diseases. — Sulpholine Lotion
drives away all eruptions, pimples, blotches, red-
ness, eczema, acne, disfigurements, roughness and
scurf, leaving a clear, spotless skin. Sold every-
where.
Reliable Watch Repairs. Daiims & Co., King-st. Arcade
Forty Years.
The description of a simple remedy, by which a
complete cure of deafness and noises in the head of
forty years’ standing has just been effected,
will be sent free to anyone who applies to
J. H. NICHOLSON,
175 William Street, Melbourne.
IvfOTICE.— Advertisements for Current Week
cannot be received LATER than 1 p.m. on
TUESDAY.
OTI C E T O AGE NT S.
N
All ORDERS for CHRISTMAS NUMBER
must reach us not later than TUESDAY, Kith
December, 1890.
WOOL. 'WOOL.
THE HEW ZEALAND
Loan & Mercantile Agency
COMPANY, LIMITED.
BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Capital, £4,500,000 ... Reserve, £270,000
Wool Season* 1888-89.
Regular Sales of Wool Held Throughout the
Season.
rpHE greatest cave bestowed on the Valuation and the
-I Displaying and Protecting all Wools entrusted to
the Company for sale, whether from large or small clips.
Cvoivos Advised find Consulted with before Sales
of'their Clips are made.
Liberal Cash Advances, where desired, on Wool lieu
of Ensuing Clip, and on Wool and other Produce, whether
for sale in Sydney or shipment to London.
Auction Sales of Sheer Skins, Marsupial
Skins, Hides, Tallow, &c., Held Regularly.
Every Information Supplied on Application.
G. S. CAMPBELL, Manager,
SYDNEY WOOL Sc GRAIN WAREHOUSES
Bridge and Loftcs Streets.
NOTICE.
t ADY OLIVA'S STEP DAUGHTERS.
It A Now Novel. By the Author of “ Dulce’s
Bugaev, ’ &c.. is cotnnu need in
{ I AH IBV 1 1 ERA Bl) PA RT for SEPTEMBER,
i 1 Which contains also the continuation of
“ YOUNG, AND SO FAIR !”
1 A New Novel. By the Author of “ r l hose
Irish Eyes,” “The Cost of Her Fancy,” kc.
Also, complete Stories, Essays, Answers to
Correspondents, Cookery, Miscellanea, Enigmas,
Charades. Riddles. &c.
TtAMILY HERALD PART for SEPTEMBER.
JJ The Australasian says
“This favourite domestic magazine retains all
its old interest and variety.”
The
FAMILY HERALD may be had in Half-yearly
Volumes and in Monthly Parts of all Colonial
Booksellers and Newsagents ; or the Monthly Part
direct from W. Stevens, 421 Strand, London,
England, for 14s. per annum, post free.
London; W. Stevens, 421 Strand: and at all
Newsvendors.
TEST THE THING FOR HAPPY CHRISTMAS!
“ PRIMROSE'S"
Christmas and New Year Competition
Name the twelve most suitable presents for Christmas
or New Year from a gentleman to a lady.
Ist prize— Handsome Marble Timepiece, value£s.
2nd ~ Gold lirooeh and Earrings, value £3 10s.
3rd i, Gent.’s Silver Watch, value £2 ss.
4th ~ Pictorial History of the World, value £llos.
sth „ Strong Leather Portmanteau, value 15/6.
•One Guess, 1/-; Three Guesses, 2/-. Stamps. Competi-
tion closes 3rd January ; results published 6th January.
“ PRIMROSE.”
Park-street P. 0., Sydney.
QUONG TART & CO.,
TEA MERCHANTS,
CATERERS & PASTRY COOKS.
CHRISTMAS {
CHRISTMAS
CAKES!
} CHRISTMAS
We beg respectfully, in view of the near approach
of the Christmas season, to call the attention of
our customers and the public generally to this
department of our business, to which we are
paying special attention. . ,
We are now prepared to supply all kinds,, of
Christmas and other Cakes (plain and iced) from
lib, weight upwards, at prices within the reach of
all. Any special design made to order.
We also supply, on the shortest notice, all kinds
of Pastry, Jellies, etc.
Banquets, Balls and Private Parties Catered for on
the premises and outside by special arrangement.
Try our specially Mixed Tea, suitable for
Christmas and New Year Presents.
QUONG tart & CO,
137 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
Eye - Sight Restored.
WHY SUFFER 1 We send gauge for testing sight,
a treatise on “Vision,” and all information free. Spec-
tacles of every description from Is.; Pebbles from ss.
Pilot Field Glass, clear definition five miles, with case.
“Liver” Telescope, with astronomical glass, clear
six miles, 21s. Good going Silver Watches, 255.,
nicicle, 12s. fid., 15s. and 205., guaranteed two years.
W. E. Toose, Optician, 418 George-street, Sydney.
Awarded Nine Medals at various Exhibitions
■
y&n
“ They fit perfectly , and are
far superior to all the other
,Corsets I have tried.”
| (Signed) Marie Hose.
-
PATENT
Diagonal Seam Corset
Will not Split in the Seams
nor Tear in the Fabric.
Exquisite Model, Perfect
Comfort, Guaranteed Wear.
Beware of worthless imita-
tions. Every genuine
Corset stamped “ Y& N Patent
Diagonal Seam Corset, No. 116,” in oval.
THREE GOLD MEDALS!
Sold by all Drapers and Ladies’ Outfitters.
fin ASM AN lA. Messrs. lIIV GLRA
L BROS., Launceston, Sole Wholesale Age
for" the sale of The Bulletin and A Golden
Shanty,” Brice, One Shilling; Postage 3d. extra.
The Referee.
The appearance jot Burge and Dawson in a
Sydney Police Court charged with prize-fighting, and the
numerous letters, silly in every case, on both sides of the
question that have appeared in the daily press, have
directed a deal of public attention towards the “nobie
art.” If the goody-goodies are to be believed, boxing is
ruinous to both body and soul ; according to the other
crowd the only sure passport to eternal glory. Indeed,
the secretary of a Sydney club-has been rude enough to
contradict Queen Victoria, declaring that the pluck en-
gendered in the prize-ring is the _ secret of England s
greatness, and has also bad the brassiness to aver that be
doesn’t believe that anyone was ever killed 01 perman-
ently injured in a well-Conducted I> oxi ll g -match.
Broken ribs, smasbed-up knnekhs, flattened noses,
scarred faces, toothless gums, and cars that look ~s if a
dog had chewed ih >m, are incontrovertible coni radii 'ions
of the lat ter part ef this extraordinary statement, and no
one need go beyond his own personal experience nr
reading for testimony to upset the former. But some-
thing could lie done to lessen the brutality of the sport
The success of John L. Sullivan has set every boxei
aflame with but o,ne idea—“ knock out.” Let future con-
tests be for points. Point-fighting may seem tame at
first after the bashing business, but public taste can be
educated up to anything. One of the worst features of
the present.system is the three-minute rounds with ten
seconds allowed to knocked-ddwn men. Perhaps it is not
necessary to shorten the rounds, but a “ Knock-down ”
should in all cases terminate the round, and the fallen
man should be allowed the minute interval in his corner.
Modern fighting, Burge, Slavin, and Goddard to wit, is
chiefly a matter of strength and condition—skill has little
to do with it.
* # #
Remarkable, isn’t it, that when Burge and
Dawson appeared at Sydney Central charged with prize-
fighting none of the influential promoters of the fight
were summoned as 00-defendants? The very essence of
a prize-fight (and therein lies its noxiousness in the eyes
of the law) is the presence of interested spectators. As
fights for money never take place without spectators, and
as the prize-fighting-law is not intended to reach cases
where men settle sudden disputes by force of fists, it is
plain that the backers are really as legally culpable as are
the so-called principals.
# * #
The poverty of England explains away her
backward position in pugilism. With the middle and
lighter weights she can still hold, her own, as witness
Carney in America. But she has no heavy-weight, for
Burke and Charley Mitchell properly trained would be
well within the middle division. Even that exploded
fraud, Jem Smith, is not a big man. This dearth is
accounted for by the fact that- the agricultural population
has migrated to the towns, and physique has so declined
that even the army authorities have been forced to reduce
the standard for height and chest measurement. Among
the lower ranks in England a tall, firmly-built man is now
the exception. Then, the Irish, who have always con-
tributed more than their share to the P.R., have, for
reasons “more fiscal than Popery,” been driven to
America and Australia.
# # *
The well-known and cheery William Midwinter,
a fine cricketer and billiard-player, a great athlete in his
day and a lion hitter, has just died in Kew Asylum
(Melb.) of paralysis—directly induced by grief consequent
on the loss of his wife and children. But let the truth be
told for the benefit of young men with big chests. As an
animal, Midwinter was a magnificent man—a splendid
specimen of the English yeoman, whom the greed of the
English landlord - is scattering all over the world. Mid-
winter was a professional athletic success, and so gravi-
tated to the landlordship of a public-house. No man can
face grief as the landlord of a public-house if he drinks
with his customers. Grog is the enemy of the athlete-
above all, it is the enemy of the athlete who presumes on
his strength.
# * *
No fault can*be found with the selection of the
N.S-W. International Cricket Team. Even in the absence
of Turner and Garrett it is remarkably strong, and it is
quite refreshing to see the mother colony represented by
eleven performers and no “paper” men. However, South
Australia will probably come out on top. The Southerners
have for long been asserting their progress in cricket and
with such an artist as George Giffen for mentor, it is little
wonder. Then there is Lyons, acknowledged in England
as the fastest scorer of the age, and, upon running down
the names of the rest of the men who compose the S.A.
team, it looks as if the time has now come when they are
successfully to claim the championship.
# * •
Here is some phenomenal scoring. Against S.
Adelaide the other day Norwood made 889 for 3 wickets.
George Giffen made 253 not out. At the other end of the
same Oval, Adelaide made 333 for one wicket Hiscock 143,
Evans 123, both not out). This means that on the
Adelaide Oval on one day 722 runs were made for 4
wickets, two of them run out! Does not this prove that
senior cricket on latter-day turf wickets is a big farce,
from a bowler’s point of view? Why not provide the
batsmen with broom-handles, and let the bowlers shoot
at them with a cannon ?
# # *
Bteeplechasing does not “catch on” with the
N.S.W. amateurs, as evinced by the fact that, at Rosehill
ori Saturday, out of 28 horses entered for the Amateur
Steeplechase, only three faced the starter. One baulked
after going a couple of furlongs, and his rider not per-
severing, the race resolved itself into a match between
Cymbal and Longfellow. The latter fell, hut Mr. Prender-
gast remounted and finished the course without stirrups,
very close to Cymbal. His pluck seems enhanced when
it is remembered that on Tom Hales losing a stirrup on
Admiral at the V.R.C. meeting, he tried to pull the colt
up, and fell off in the attempt.
* # *
To any regular attendant at Sydney suburban
races, it is patent that the A.J.O. should appoint a
detector of “ stiff ’uns,” even at the risk of its being said
that the action was a plagiarism of the action of that
excellent institution, the V.R.C. Never, perhaps, was
the need of such an official more strongly exemplified
than on Saturday, when Mr. “ Johnny Armstrong ”
was fairly on the job. That the surroundings of the
“ turf ” will ever allow it to become thoroughly clean is
beyond all human,expectation, but,- with.strict super-
vision, a good deal might be done to crush the most bare-
faced of the swindles which are weekly perpetrated on
the proprietary courses about Sydney.
* * *
The Assyrian is now the leading sire in Tas-
mania. His Melbourne Cup of 1882 made a rich man of
Jem Allison, though he afterwards died poor in San
Francisco. # #
■ In the latest report of the Y.M.O. A., attention
is drawn to the apathy of the members as a collective body
regarding field sports'. “They prefer playing with out-
side clubs. Let us hope that before long this will be
changed,” says the document. And now the change is
being brought about by making a set against outside
gymnasia. What is the difference between Rate-money
and the oolleotion-plate ?
* * *
The “Pari-mutuel,” the French model of the
Australian totalisator, will he officially recognised on
French race-courses conditionally on two per cent, of the
sums staked being handed over to the Government to be
applied to some charitable object.
# ‘ # *
A j’eport was recently circulated by certain
betting-men that the Duke of Devonshire was dead, so
that his son (Lord Hartington) might scratch Morion for
the Cambridgeshire. It didn’t come off.
# * *
“ What’s won, Bill?” said the boy who couldn’t
read writing, as he stood outside the paper-office. “ Post-
ponement !” was the reply. “Another dashed outsider,
said the small punter.
# * *
The London correspondent of a N.Z. paper says
that Pugilist M‘Auliffe’s sudden collapse was apparently
caused by an attack of stitch or some heart trouble. “ A
stitch in time saves nine.”
* * *
“Herd Laddie” Wyllie played a draw at
draughts in Sydney School of Arts with John Boyce, the
N.S.W. champion. lie skips to America by first mail to
play the American checker-champion, Heed, for £2OO
a-side and t he world’s championship.
* * #
Mr. “Pink ’Un” Corlett has been telling the
London Times that betting has not of late years increased,
and in support gives some interesting facts. Thormanhy S
Derby of 1860 brought the late Mr. Merry £IOO,OOB in
bets. The winnings on Macoaroni were equally large in
1163, and much larger when Hermit landed the great coup
for Machell and Chaplin, in 1867. Mr. Corlett, who
speaks with some authority, thinks that no one man lias
(luring the last 10 years won £20,000 on a Derby. Though
the Cesarewitch and the Cambridgeshire are now the great
betting races, he thinks the wagering on this year’s big
handicap small compared with what it was when the
Marquis of Hastings and his friends won‘ £200,000 over
Lecturer, in 1860. Mr. Corlett, however, loses sight of one
important fact. Betting in those days was chiefly an
iristoeratic amusement. Now, every one has his “bit
, •>,” and consequently the aggregate sum wagered must
be greater, though no bettor may win such large sums as
of yore, no penciller make such a big hook. There are
ten hookies for one of 30 years ago, and a hundred times
as many hackers.
# * *
The giant “Black ” Perry, well known in Aus-
tralia in the fifties, “did” 12 months once for killing
his opponent in a prize fight. Perry hit him just under
the ear, and he fell to rise no more.
# * *
James McGarrigal’s (the Queensland sprint-
runner,, leg still goes back on him.
* * *
At one time in Sydney to be a good cricketer
was a passport to a good Government billet. This was
before “ gate-money ” cropped up
* * *
Lady Lovel, who won the Flying Handicap at
Albury the other Saturday, should be worth watching. A
mare recovering her early form at five years of age is
dangerous, very.
e # *
We read that Joe Thompson’s daughter Leah is
to be married in January to Mr. E. Windover, of the Lon-
don carriage-building firm of Windover and Cos.
# # *
Sl'avin and M'Auliffe are now touring amicably
together, but when the wine is in their contests become
awfully “ willing.” Showing at a London music-hall,
they lately became very much in earnest. The “ costers”
who paid sixpence to get into the pit saw more than the
young bloods did who parted £ls for the two-round affair
at the Ormonde Club.
* * *
The great problem now with the Sydney
« cronk ” ped is how to get “ rung in ” as a “ novice.”
* * *
Now that “novice” handicaps have spoilt the
N.S.W. pedestrian boom some of the crack pedestrians
should journey to England, as they are only losing time
in Australia. Tf as good as reputed, some of them should
win, for when Samuels was entered at his best he received
a liberal start. If England is inferior to us in sculling and
pugilism, why should she produce better sprinters? To
this there is a good answer. Pulling is little practised in
England and unknown outside the Tyne and Thames.
Australian superiority in pugilism has only been proved
as regards the heavy-weights. In England, however,
nearly every youth runs, either as an amateur or a pro-
fessional, and, as a rule, you can, other things being
equal, produce better men out of 40 than out of three
millions.
A down-South person named Lazarus has
just distrained on an individual called Dives for
two weeks’ rent. Everything comes to him who
waits.
A man committed suicide recently in
England because he had lost his wife, the lady
having eloned with a policeman. Two weeks
later the policeman suicided because he had found
her, so even in death the corpse got square with
its enemy. The lady has not suicided —in fact,
she is quite happy and contented and getting
rapidly out of her double-banked widowhood in
order to elope some more.
CORRESPONDENCE
“ W.W.H.” (Wagga) : It’s all right, thank
y0u....“ Louis ” : Yes, both in France and England....
“Ted”: Unsober or insane—which ?... : The
Chinese doctor probably gave you saliva, crow’s blood,
decomposed rat, and opium-pipe scrapings as medicine...
“ Pluto’Maori” : “ Banjo”—who isn’t “an English hood-
lum ” hut a particularly cultured and clever Australian
does not want to “ meet ” you, or fight you—he does not
wish to touch you with a forty-foot pole. But you said
you wanted to kick him, which is another matter
entirely “8.L.”; It all depends upon whether you
regard Australia as a separate nationality. If you do
and we do—then an English letter is a foreign letter
“Blunderbuss”: Anglo-Dutch, when joined to bad cali-
grapby, is not easily deciphered.... “ Verisimple ” : Can’t
have any sherry in our Summer Cup “W.8.M.”: A
hit off... “On Anzie”: Good,'but not in our vein....
“Wanderer”: Sensible, but wants condensing....
“F.S.G.”; Clippings to hand. Thanks “T.J.H.”:
Your best linos are :
“ Now, faith and the right can go to the wall
That the few may climb while the many fall,
And the strong grow' rich from their fellows’ need
As they pile up wealth while their brethren bleed I
Yes, w e shall change all that.
11 Now, each one looks to his own small life.
While true men fall in unequal strife
For lack of the aid that each one should give,
And fall underfoot that the base may live.
Now 1 , we shall change all that.
“ L.L.”: Australian federation is a mere dream to-day,
and just don’t you forget we have told you 50....
“Quito”: Why, at nearly every “good” corner in
Sydney the “pubs.” have given way to the banks..
“C.H.G.”: Too filthy a fact.... “H.L.E.”: More stones-
“ Cobargo ”; A good piece of chaff “ Jane ”: Vide
note to last story... “Non-juror”: Too “steep”....
Wagga”: The Government can release Arthur Rae, if
thev choose, and we have an idea that the Government will
choose. [Many replies held over.]
At Kerupuna, New Guinea, the bleaching
skulls of sixteen Chinese beche-dc-mer men, de-
pending from the chief’s dnbu in the village
square, testify to the advisableness of observing
the seventh commandment when in a foreign land.
Some American school-principals are try-
ing to exclude Longfellow’s “ Building of the
Ship ” from Brooklyn schools. Here are some of
the passages they regard as dangerous to the
morals of school children :
And for a moment one might mark
What had been hidden by the dark,
That the head of the maiden lay at rest,
Tenderly, on the young man’s breast!
She starts—she moves—she seems to feel
The thrill of life along her keel,
And spurning with her foot the ground,
With one exulting joyous bound.
She leaps into the ocean’s arms !
Take her, Oh bridegroom old and gray,
Take her to thy protecting arms
With all her youth and all her charms !
How beautiful she is ! How fair
She lies within those arms that press
Her form with many a soft caress
Of tenderness and watchful cafe !
HE WAS SAVED.
I’ts no use for people to run
For Dr. Brown or Dr. Dunn,
Or Dr. Black or Dr. White,
Or Dr. Gray with all their might.
The Dr.’s eome, they look and wonder,
Shake their heads, pause and ponder;
One proposes that he be bled,
No, leached you mean, another said.
Clap on a blister, roars another,
No, cup him, or trapan, brother.
The patient now looks very queer,
He yells for St. Louis Lager Beer.


If asked to drink, call for Wolfe’s Schnapps.
At corner of George and Liverpool-streets,
Sydney, on the site of the old Royal Standard,
stands the Central Courthouse Hotel, a new three*
storey building erected by W. Phillips, of Bal-
main, the architects being Shervey and Lenthall.
This hotel is built wholly and solely for the culti-
vation of a sound bar trade, and as such ranks
second to none in Sydney. It is lavishly fitted
throughout, but special mention must be made
of the costly fittings in both the private
and public bars, the ceilings and panellings of
Which are of pine relieved with cedar, which,
with the massive glass mirrors around the sides,
make the bar one of the prettiest and most
attractive in Sydney. The kitchen is at the
top of the building, which fact does away with the
unpleasant aroma so frequently found, even in
our most modern hotels. The furnishing was
entrusted to the well-known firm of A. Hall and
Co., of London, and 565 and 567 George-street,
Sydney; bar and gasfittings, by Watson and
Crane, Pitt-street; and tilings by Dobson and Co.
The popular proprietor, Mr. J. J. Leary, is deter-
mined to keep up his old reputation, and we
therefore hope that his old patrons will roll up in
numbers. His name is a sufficient guarantee for
the success of the Venture and we wish him all
that he wishes himself.*
Recommended by doctors—Wolfe’s Schnapps.
*
['
ABSOLUTELY
PURE,
THEREFORE THE BEST.
1
m
ym
m.
m
m
////<
rtVA
ym
m
sA
K
/■
1
c
m
I
Coco^
n
w
m
Tinamona’s Ghost.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
Wit Were passengers in a trading.vessel that lav in
vhe saucer-shaped natural basin which does duty
<as a harbour at Earotonga, and while the last
loads of oranges were being shipped we accepted
the hospitality of an old gentleman, generally
known as the Skipper, who, after many years
a bout among the Islands and in
Maori land, had finally settled down at Avarua
the principal Earotongan settlement. As we sat
in his verandah discussing whisky and other
Island matters there passed along the road in
ifont of the house a long, thin, rather bilious-
looking individual in unmistakeable clerical rig.
v I, eiy n °d ,^ ven by our host and returned
by the gentleman in black showed that there was
not much cordiality of feeling between the pair,
and When the latter had passed, our host, telling
tes that the bilious one was the resident missionary
and that he had an uncommonly good billet, pro-
ceeded to retail for our edification a few instances
of pious zeal that lacked discretion, and which
had distinguished the parsoh on his arrival to
assume the charge of the mission station.
However, he is not quite so mischievous now
as when he first came,” proceeded the Skipper
1 suppose the climate is tempering his Zealand
toning him down a bit, but even at his worst he
Was never a patch on an old devil-dodger who was
here before him, the Eeverend Wily Grab He
was a rum-’un, and no mistake. With all his oily
piety he had a keen scent for shekels, and the
natives here used to call him Parson Dollars,
Lord ! how he used to squeeze fines out of them !
~ b suppose you know that all offences against
the Decalogue, and a lot of others not included in
it, are punishable under missionary-made law here
by a graduated system of fines. For instance, the
peccadilloes of the local girls are met with a fine of
cour dollars for the first time of being found out
and one dollar for each successive offence, the
man gcnng scot free; while, if the offender is a
m ™ e( J woman, she and her paramour are in for
a 30-dollar fine each. Payment of the fine acts as
a complete whitewashing, and fully purges of all
iniquity, the erstwhile sinners being thought no
Worse of afterwards; they have paid up, and that
is an end of the whole matter.
„‘i ln^ ee ' d ) was said among his flock that old
Wily Grab seemed to be very tender to lambs and
sheep that thus returned to the fold after paying
their footing—-more so than to the apparently un-
blemished saints of his congregation who needed
hot repentance. The former brought lots of grist
to his mill, while the latter were at best but un-
profitable servants.
“I will tell you a yarn about old Wily, which
relates to one of the most screaming farces I
ever witnessed even in connection with island
missionary labours. It was one Christmas eve; I
had been away at Ngatangiia all day. on business,
and got home rather tired, but the day had been
Very hot, and I did not feel much inclined for
bed, so, after a late supper, I sat out here smoking
my pipe and sipping my toddy in the cool night
breeze. It was about one a.m., a light wind was
blowing m-shore, and the low run of the surf
and gentle swishing of the coco-palm leaves were
*u mg , Ine into a dreamy state as I smoked.
Above these I heard an occasional distant mur-
muring sound—something between a low chant
and a monotonous gabble, I could not quite
make it out, but put it down to some sing-song
service being held at the other end of Avarua;
for these natives will sometimes meet and sit
psalm-singing for half the night.
“Suddenly I beard someone open the gate of
the front paddock, and come running up to the
house panting. ‘Papelangi!’ shouted a voice;
‘ come quick; old Mohi has seen a spirit, and he
is dying!’
“Now, Mohi was the owner of this place, and
my landlord ; not a bad old sort, but very fond of
his grog when he could indulge without fear of
Wily Grab and his fines. So up I jumped and
followed the messenger.
“As I drew near to Mohi’s house the noise I
had heard was explained. Squatted on the
ground outside of the house was a crowd of natives
of both sexes and all ages, some praying, some
singing in a low tone, swaying their bodies to and
fro as they crooned—for all the world like an Irish
wake.
“ I passed through the crowd into the house,
which was also full of squatting natives, head-men
of the village, all silent and with their eyes fixed
on a couch in the corner whereon lay Mohi, quite
still, with his agonised eyes intently gazing at one
point in the roof, while an incessant gabble poured
from his lips, though his features were otherwise
fixed and motionless. At his side, and holding
one of his hands, knelt the Rev. Wily Grab, pray-
ing fervently and aloud in native lingo.
“ As I entered, the parson rose from his knees
and, extending an arm, said in an impressively-
solemn tone:
“ ’ Friend J , you have come to bid what, I
Tw^ih 18 a farewell to your old acquaintance,
Mohi. This is a sad, a solemn, an awe-inspiring
sight; one that may well bring reflection to even
the most worldly mind. Mohi has been visited by
a spirit. He is, indeed, even now possessed by
the spirit which the Lord has vouchsafed to send
to him. You remember that reprobate Tinamona,
who died here in a state of intoxication about six
months ago ? It is his spirit that has been sent to
manifest itself to poor Mohi. And, oh ! What
a precious lesson may this visitation not afford to
sinners of my flock ! Listen.
had begun his jabbering worse than ever,
and Wily connected his scattered sentences, put
them into some sort of shape and sense, and gave
them out with a running commentary in Raro-
tongan for the benefit of the assembly.
“Listen, oh my friends ! His body lies before
you there, but his spirit is wandering forth with
I inamona’s ghost into the abode of spirits. Not,
brethren' into the regions of the blest —there
Tmamona’s impure soul could never be allowed to
penetrate—but into the place of torment! the
dwelling of the damned ! ! the realm of Satan !!!
Hear him repeat the names of those he recog-
nises !”
Here Wily Grab gave out a long roll of names
of deceased members of his flock whom he deemed
to have died impenitent.
“ You hear, my friends? All vile sinners on
earth ! all lost souls in the great hereafter ! Not
one spirit has he met of those that have gone from
here m peace to rest in glory ! Let this be a lesson
to you all here present, as it must ever be to our
poor friend lying here before us, should the Lord
vouchsafe to restore him to us once more.”
“ I hen, turning to me and speaking in English :
. Friend J said he, “well has it been
written that the Lord ‘ has hid these things from
the wise and prudent and revealed them unto
babes.’ Now you, I daresay, in common with
most other Europeans, look upon these natives as
ignorant, debased, and mere children in intellect.
Yet, wonderful are the Ways of the Almighty !
and this is not the only occasion in which I have
known Him to reveal Himself in a like mysterious
manner to these His creatures, whom we look
down upon, while not condescending to make
Himself manifest in this directly personal form to
the cultured inhabitants of civilised communities.’
“ ‘ Now, I put it to you ; tell me, friend J——,
did you, in your experience, ever know any of
your fellow-countrymen to be visited in this
special, this marvellous fashion ?’
“ ‘ Why, bless my soul, yes, Mr. Grab,’ replied
I; ‘ often and often,’
“ ‘ Often ! Oh, surely not often, Mr. J . I
doubt if you can cite even one instance in which
you have been witness of such a soleihn Visitation
by the Almighty.’
“Yes, I repeat* often. I tell you, Mr. Grab,
that I have Witnessed just such another attack at
least a hundred times, and probably oftener.”
“But where, my good sir, and under whatname
was the manifestation known among men, for I
have never seen such a case recorded ?”
“ Why, in the Waikato, among the military
settlers, during the Maori war. We used to call
it H.T.’s, the horrors, delirium tremens, blue
devils, jim-jams, and it has a lot of other names
too. It used to be a very common complaint
there.”
The Reverend Wily Grab’s jaw dropped, and
he seemed dazed with horror. Bending over the
unconscious Mohi, his nose probably caught an
emanation of the spirit which possessed the poor
old fellow, for, thrusting his hand from him with
an expression of disgust, he straightened himself
stiffly and stalked majestically out of the house,
exclaiming as he Went:
( “ And have I been called from my bed at ten
o’clock of the night, and wasted my time here
till two of the morning, and all on account of a
depraved, a wretched, a bestial drunkard?”
“Thenati vesoutside seeing his sudden departure,
and noting his stern, unbending aspect, took it as
a sign that all was over and greeted him with a
loud cry. Meanwhile some signs of returning
consciousness glimmered in Mohi’s eyes.
“As the reverend gentleman vanished, a new
comer entered on the scene, namely, Ihaia, a
native missionary, one of the pillars of Wily’s
church, the most rigid disciplinarian, the most
earnest exhorter, and most crafty old sinner in the
whole of the Cook and Hervey groups, not even
excepting Wily Grab himself.
“Ihaia, in his turn, took up a position on his
knees alongside my drunken old landlord, and as
the latter seemed coming to, and I was beginning
to feel sleepy I nodded good morning to Ihaia, and
turned homeward.
“Just as I had got into the outer enclosure of
this place, a paddock in which I had a few sheep
grazing, one of them gave a sudden spring into
the air, uttered a short, sharp bleat or cry, and
fell on its side in convulsions.
“ Thinks Ito myself; these natives are a super-
stitious set of beggars, so here goes for a lark that
may even do a little good.
“So, walking back to Mohi’s house, I opened
the door, and calling to Ihaia, I said :
“ ‘ Ihaia, your prayers have been answered.
The spirit has just left Mohi, and entered into
one of my sheep. He will soon be all right now.’
“ Well, off rushed a lot of the fellows to see if
what I said was true. There, sure enough, was
the sheep, still kicking out convulsively, atid back
they tan With this confirmation true as Holy
Writ, full of wonder and admiration at the
marvellous praying powers of Ihaia.
‘‘ln the midst of their shouts of ‘Allelulia!
‘Glory to God !’ &0., suddenly Mohi sprang up
on his couch, looked round him in a dazed fashion
for a minute or two, and then, with a loud yell,
dashed out of the house and disappeared in the
bush.
“ He was away in hiding, keeping well out of
sight of everyone for three days, and then he
came back very quietly, looking most foolish and
crestfallen.
“ It seems that oh the day of his attack he had
managed to get a bottle of square gin from the
Chinaman’s store, hfid Sat doWn ih the bush ahd
drained it to the last drop, and then, when
to get home and sleep it off, had slipped in
crossing the creek and fallen into the stream, his
head, fortunately, remaining out of the water
supported by some stones. The e®ld bath had
seemingly driven all the spirit into his head, but
anyhow, after a time he managed to scramble out
and find his way home, with the after-results as I
told you.
“The affair has been a joke against poor Mohi
ever since, and the Urchins of the Island, when-
ever they pick up a bottle with any smell of liquor
hanging about it, will take it up to the old boy
and poke it under his nose, saying: ‘Here, Mohi,
have a smell of Tinamona’s ghost!’ ”
“ Old Wily Grab, too, hung his diminished head
for a long time after and was very careful to keep
as much as possible out of my way for fear of my
reminding him of the peculiar instances of divine
manifestations to benighted Islanders which he
professed to have Witnessed.
“Ihaia, on the other hand, flourished exceed-
ingly on it. What the Maoris would call his
‘Mana’ as an advocate with the powers above,
marvellously increased among the Rarotongan
Christians, and he was looked upon as possessing
a forty-parson power of prayer at least over Wily
Grab.


Wolfe’s Schnapps has no rival.
Wolfe’s Schnapps—a mild stimulant.
Wolfe’s Schnapps—the ladies appreciate it.
Wolfe’s Schnapps will do you no harm.
Buy Wolfe’s Schnapps by the bottle.
■m
m
m
vm
mm
m
MM
i
&
■:-. '
a
SS-,
im
■Jm.
WMUiXi
massasm
%
ssk
/
#
An Australian Edison.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.)
One morning not long ago, as I lounged in the
shade of an oak in Parramatta Park, somewhat to
my disturbance a stranger seated himself at my
side. He was apparently about 50 years of age,
with a facial expression indicative of high mental
power and great benevolence. I was in no humour
to talk, but the intruder was of a different mind,
for presently he remarked that, so far as he knew,
the oaks forming the grove wherein we sat were
amongst the oldest of their kind in Australia. To
this I gruntingly assented.
My moroseness did not, however, affect my com-
panion, for he continued: “Some say Governor
Bligh planted them, but I never met anyone who
could speak with certainty about the matter. I
am told they thought oaks would grow well here
and at Pitt Town, and in time they reckoned
there would be some timber useful for ship build-
ing. ‘Heart of oak’ sounds well, but heart of
steel is better. I see they have found a plan of
making nickel-steel for armour-plates. The inven-
tion isn’t so bad, for if a shot strikes a vessel and
penetrates the armour, the fracture is only the
size of the shot, not as would happen with ordi-
nary steel—a large and gaping hole. I have given
the matter of armour-plating a great deal of study.
It is some years since I discovered a treatment of
steel which may yet revolutionise ship-building.
The steel is combined at a fixed temperature with
a small per-centage of bismuth and lead, and to the
metal produced I have given the name of plumb-
steel. It has the quality of resisting concussion
equally well with ordinary steel, but its fracture is
horizontal and on the passage of the shot the sides
of the fissure come together again. You can at
once see the value of the invention and its
superiority for war-vessels, even over nickel-
steel. During a naval battle there would be no
danger of a vessel, that was struck, sinking; .nor
would the holes in the hull require to be plugged
up—they would close sufficiently to keep out all
but a very small quantity of water. I have sub-
mitted the scheme to the Duke of Edinburgh,
with whom I have a slight personal acquaint-
ance.”
Here my neighbour took breath, but only for an
instant. Continuing his narration he said: “I
am anxious to get the invention off my hands
speedily, as I have another which will much dis-
count its value. I suppose you know that the
Straits of Dover are only 20£ miles wide. Well,
I have invented a piece of ordnance which will
carry 23 miles and have offered it to the French
Republic. By next mail I hope to hear from
Sadi-Carnot. My idea is that the French should
erect batteries at the narrowest part of the
channel and strongly defend them from land
attack. In these batteries would be mounted a
sufficient number of my ordnance so ranged as to
dominate every inch of water as far as the English
coast, and so render the passage of ships in war
time most dangerous.”
“ The ships could get through at night-time, you
say. Not a bit of it. I propose that the whole
strait shall be swept by electric lights, so that the
darkest night will give no better aid for a vessel
to sneak through, than the brightest day. You
see what advantage we gain by closing the strait.
A. ship going to London from the South will have
to make a circuit,, right round Ireland and Scot-
land, a distance of 1300 miles more than at pre-
sent —the detour for vessels bound for the Baltic
will also bo very considerable. As soon as the
batteries are up there will be a terrible panic in
England. The days of London’s greatness a,re
over, as it will be impossible to have the chief
city of the kingdom exposed to a blockade such
as the French could establish.”
“ What’s that you say? No gun could stand
the recoil. Just so. My invention is not a gun.
The power is got from a substance I have dis-
covered, which has the property of exerting its ex-
plosive force in a line parallel with the fibres of
which it is composed, and according as these fibres
are placed hortizonally or vertically, so will the
direction of the force be horizontal or vertical.
Chemists well know of other substances of an
analogous kind. It has also the property, which
I think is exclusively its own, of exploding with
greatest effect in the direction of most resistance.
You can imagine, therefore, the instrument out of
which it is fired will not suffer any pressure from
the discharge except that of the friction, caused
by the projectile in its passage. The gun, if I
may use the term, is merely a strong cylinder open
at each end. The shot is placed in position and.
the explosive is put behind it. The effect of the
explosion is not great on the side opposite
the shot, what there is may be said to be
dissipated through the open vent at the back of
the gun. The full force is expended against
the projectile, which, as I have said, can be thrown
with precision a distance of 23 miles. A man
having some knowledge of projectiles might
possibly o'bject that the elevation of a gun to carry
the distance would need to be 45 degrees or there-
abouts. I have not worked out the question in
regard to gunpowder, but my explosive is of an
entirely different character. If you give me a
pencil I shall make the calculation for you.
“ Let x be the—Oh, you do not care about the
details. Very well, the elevation of my gun is not
more than | of a degree per mile of range, so that
to oast a shot at the foot of the Dover cliffs the
elevation would be only 17f degrees. I have not
made any recommendation to the French as to the
number of pieces they should erect, but I don’t
mind telling you that I think seventeen would be
ample to command the strait and defend it against
the fleets of the world. Yes, theideaisabig one;
I suppose it means a matter of millions to me.”
Here I was fain to remark that it was a pity
the mind that could invent so formidable an
engine of destruction, could not devise something
for the common benefit of the human race—
“ You assume,” said my companion, “that my
explosive will not benefit mankind. Well, let
that pass. As for more humble inventions, I
have many. I have studied much the solidifica-
tion of liquids, and my success has been singular.
I can turn oil into a solid state by the addition
of a small proportionate quantity of peroxide of
barkis, and can reduce the same to its fluid state
by pouring over it a small quantity of marmorate
of taxis. The enormous commercial advantages of
the discovery are obvious. The general public,
however, will best appreciate my invention in
regard to alcohol. There is less difficulty in
solidifying alcohol than any other fluid. To
one hundred parts of pure spirit I add one tenth
part of peroxide of barkis, the composition being
allowed to rest. In an hour’s time it becomes a
solid mass, having no trace of moisture, unless,
indeed, the spirit has been diluted, in which case
the water is allowed to flow off. For an hour or
so the composition is as pliable as wax, but after-
wards becomes quite hard. To get it back into a
fluid state, one-tenth part of sulphate of barkis —
not peroxide, mind you—is added with water,
according to the proof strength required. The
solid alcohol dissolves almost immediately, both
the sulphate and the peroxide evaporating during
the liquefaction of the alcohol.
“ I have treated alcohol in this way and formed
the solid substance into pills. Sulphate of barkis
is, as you know, also a solid, capable of being
worked into small lumps or pills. To make a
drink, ten pills of alcohol and one of sulphate
are dropped into a glass and water quantum
suff. added, the pills dissolve and the drink is
ready. I have also a process of mechanically com-
bining the sulphate of barkis with the solid alcohol,
so that only one kind of pill is required to make a
drink. One great advantage of the plan is that a
man may take his stimulant bit by bit that is,
he can place the pills one at a time in his mouth
and suck them. To an experienced hand like you
no further explanation is needed. This pill busi-
ness will be a great boom some day— there are
millions in it, too. I have a few more useful
inventions I can tell you of. Ah, here are some
people coming for me —servants of Dr. Godson. I
live over there, shall I introduce you?”
At this moment two persons in uniform came
towards us. “You old 1” said one, “ you’ve
given us a nice tramp.”
It seems they wanted him at the mad-house
just across the river.
H.S.
Brisbane tram-conductors’ wages have been
raised all round from 34s. to 40s. weekly—con-
ditionally that they buy themselves new clothes !
The Hon. M. H. Moreton, of Queensland,
brother of the present Earl Duoie, is one of the
remnants of the old regime who preferred honour
to pelf. He was originally in the 76th High-
landers. On one occasion, whilst quartered in a
Highland town with his regiment, Mat., then a
stripling, strolled with some brother-officers into
a public billiard-room in the town. The room in
question was situated on the third-storey. When
Mat. walked in there was a motley crowd assem-
bled, and amongst them a big, powerful bully who
had a mortal down upon everyone wearing uni-
form. The bully walked up to young Mat. and
grossly insulted him without rhyme or reason.
The Major of the regiment, who was present, at
once insisted on taking up his subaltern’s quarrel,
saying quietly to the aggressor; “I am a fair
match for you. You had better leave the
room. ” They closed, and after a big strug-
gle the Major carted the bully through the
door and chucked him bodily down to the
next landing where he alighted with a heavy smash,
breaking a few ribs and otherwise bodily damaging
himself. An action at law was the result. Heavy
daihages were given, and the only way in which
the Major could pay up was by selling his
commission and thus ruining his prospects in the
service. Mat. (just as poor a man as the Major)
at once stepped to the front, said the quarrel was
his, and his alone, and he would settle it. He
immediately sent in his papers, and the proceeds
of his commission paid the Major’s fine. The last
the present writer saw of him was as a telegraph-
post-and-wire contractor for the Government in
Northern Queensland, working hard for his tucker,
and making nothing out of the contract.
Perseverando.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
In the ripe fields of fervid noon-tide day
The reaper, Azrael, his sickle plied,
And with a flashing and impartial sweep
The mower laid two mortals side by side.
The one had reached with sure and steadfast steps
Th’ exalted summit of a guiltless life,
Whose soul unpassioned and birth-balanced
wrought
Its own environment from sin and strife.
Each kindling spark of lust his cool blood
quenched,
He fell not—a white polar star illumed
The pathway of his pure, calm Lapland-life,
And ashes fell not where no fire consumed.
And now his spirit heavenward bent its flight
And reached the portals of eternal rest,
And knocked for entrance through the heavenly
gate,
To the dominions of the faithful blest.
“Welcome !” the angel said, “you justly come
Unto this paradise of faithful men,
Who were a soldier though you knew not war,
Nor traitor proved—l greet you ! —enter then.
The other, whose inherent, swift hot blood
Had been to his aspiring soul its scourge,
Whose weaker nature ever earthward fell,
Yet battled ever to the grave’s dark verge—
Battled to vanquish an unnumbered foe
That still, unoonquered, menaced still the throne
That oft repulsed it from the citadel
Where each new siege more desperate had
grown.
Oft wounded—falling—still he trembling rose
Whose struggling spirit would not wholly yield
Submissively to sway of evil things ;
And thus he died still fighting in the field.
And he, too, knocked at the Celestial Gate
With doubtful hand yet hope unfailing still,
Conscious his life-long fight had oft been vain,
His victories few ’gainst sin and feeble will.
And when the angel to his summons came,
Full wide he flung the gate, and a rich tone
Of silver trumpets filled the heavenly air,
And hosts Celestial led him near the Throne.
“ Behold ! ” the angel cried, “ a warrior comes
Not for great deeds of vict’ry here renowned;
He oft fell vanquished, yet hath honour won,
He wins the Crown with which the brave are
crowned.”
And thus I learn that ’tis not only those
May gain th’ immortal and desired goal
Whose pure calm natures never warfare knew,
For honour crowns the vanquished, dauntless
soul.
Gippsland.
JOHN COLLINS.
Dr. Dujardin-Beaumetz, of the French
Academy of Medicine, has been experimenting
with fowls to show that the use of tobacco is the
cause of the decline in human fecundity.


* See The Bulletin, November 4, 1890, “The Hanging
of the Eighteen.”
Advise your friends to drink Wolfe’s Schnapps.
Bladon’s Health Saline. Invigorating- and
refreshing. W. C. Smith, 251 Elizabeth-st.
Old-fashioned Jewellery modernised to perfection. Uc.
igns free. I) ah,ms and Co., Iving-stree.t Arcade.
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
Bona-Fide announcement. Highest cash price
given for all kinds of gent’s left off clothing.
Dress-suits for sale .'or hire. Letters proi >ptly
attended to by QUITTENTON BROS., 11l
Russell street, MELBOURNE. [New number,
163.)
The London & Sydney Tea Co. supply families,
and deliver teas free anywhere in N.S. Wales.
Western Australia, the coming colony. Perth
land should be worth buying and holding for a
rise. W. J. Douglas, £6 Bathurst-street, Sydney.
To darken grey hair.—Lockyer’s Sulphur
hair restorer is the quickest, best, safest, and
cheapest. Large Bottles, Is. (id. Everywhere.
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
“ Drink, pretty creature, drink.” What? The
London & Sydney Tea Co.’s pure teas.
Land at Perth, W.A., the best Investment
Plans from Intercolonial Investment Co., Ltd.
96 Bathurst-street, Sydney.
The United States is a nation of traders. Two-
thirds of the business men of the Republic use
Esterbrook’s “Falcon” Pen. Samples free at
all Stationers.
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
Liver complaints. —Dr. King’s Dandelion
and Quinine Liver Pills, without mercury, are a
potent—English remedy; remove all liver and
stomach complaints, biliousness,_ headache, sick-
ness, shoulder pains, heartburn, indigestion, con-
stipation.
Ladies’ Silver Watches, 355. Daiims & Co., King-street
Arcade.
Tea in 20lb. and 40lb. packages at 1/6, 1/9 and
2/- per lb., delivered free by the L. & S. Tea Co.
(Captain O’Hara Booth, for many years Commandant
at Port Arthur, when interrogated (at a period long sub-
sequent to our story) by a Parliamentary Committee—
“To your knowledge, do your subordinate officers ever
go beyond the Regulations in dealing with prisoners ?”
rejoined: “You must allow them a fair discretionary
power.”
p.
H.
1
ENGINEERS
- -A-ItTID -
General Machinery Merchants.
161 Clarence-st., ssydiaey, & at Melbourne & Brisbane,
HAVE LARGE STOCKS OF THE UNDERMENTIONED MACHINERY, &c.
PUMPING MACHINERY.
BLAKE’S DIRECT ACTING
;.aM PUMPS (single and
duplex).
BLAKE’S POWER PUMPS.
BLAKE’S DOUBLE PLUNGER
PUMPS.
LAWRENCE MACHINE CO.’S
CEN TRIE UGAL PU M PS.
GOULD’S HAND & POWER
PUMPS.
EPSON’S DIAPHRAGM PUMPS.
Also, all sizes of
PIPING, FITTINGS, VALVES,
HOSE, Ac., Ac.
lIIIIHIIIII
illlill
MINING MACHINERY.
BAKERS BLOWERS.
STURTEVANT’S FAN, BLOWERS
and EXHAUSTS.
DUNCAN CONCENTRATORS.
TWO-HEAD STAMP BATTERIES.
LAMBERTON’S PATENT PUL-
VERISING MILLS.
UNION ORE CRUSHERS.
BRYAN MILLS.
TAYLOR’S HAND ORE
CRUSH ERS,
HAND AMALGAM MORTARS.
HYDRAULIC NOZZLES & DE-
FLECTORS (for sluicing).
Also, FLEXIBLE STEEL WIRE
ROPE, AMERICAN FUSE,
&c., Ac.
Welober’s Patent Centrifugal Fump.
STEAM ENGINES —Horizontal and Vertical, with and without Boilers combined,' from two horse power. VERTICAL BOILERS from two horse power. Hoisting
Engines. Boiler Feed Injectors, ENGINEERS MACHINE TOOLS, including Turning Lathes, Radial and other Drilling Machines, Screwing Machines, &c.
FAIRBANKS Scales and Weighbridges. Denison’s Suspended Weighing Machines. Woodworking Machinery. Lubricating Oils, Skip Grease, Belting, Emery Wheels,
Sight Feed Lubricators. Pickering Engine Governors. if £ Correspondence Solicited. All enquiries promptly attended to.
Tlje London & Sydney
Tea Company,
167 Clarenoe-st., Sydney
Delivers carriage free
to any Railway Station
or port In N-S-Walcs.
p;
Packed in
20-lb- and 40-lb. Chests.
Price:
1/6, 1/9, 2/-, & 2/0 per Ibj
"Write to us for
Samples, Post Free
Tales of “The System.”
No. XXIII.—A Port Arthur Episode,
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
A distinguished party of visitors had
arrived at Port Arthur, agog to inspect the
Settlement. And, not to be outdone in politeness )
the whole settlement was eager to inspect the
visitors.
For affairs, you must know, had been somewhat
monotonous and unexciting of late. Whether
it was the sultry weather—it was February—or
whether it was the absence of the Commandant
“up town,” or whether it was that the Devil had
quite enough to occupy his attention elsewhere,
the public of the settlement was not concerned to
enquire. They merely recognised the fact, and
yawned.
“Things demned slow!” mumbled Surgeon
Slipshott to Ensign Chick, as the latter met the
doctor crossing the lane to the soldier’s condemned-
cell. The military officer was on his rounds.
“ Yaas, ’tis so ! ” replied Chick, too exhausted
to speak, except in monosyllables.
“Things livelier up at th’ Island, s’pose?”
further interrogated Slipshott, not really anxious
for an answer, but feeling he must make some
effort to dispel the gloom which shrouded his
spirits.
“Ah, rather,” responded the boy, roused into
spasmodic intelligence by the allusion to Norfolk
Island, whence he had just returned. “ They do
do things up there. Hanged eighteen slick,
y’know, just ’fore I came down. Was on jury.”*
“H’m, yes, heard something o’ that. Well,
we’ve never a hanging here now. Things too
civilised. They all go up town. And these hot
days the prisoners don’t even exert themselves to
get flogged. Muggins, chief scourger, you know,
says his muscle’s getting quite soft—only flogged
two fellows this week !”
“What say—Muggins, here?”
“Yes; Argus brought him from Ross with him.
Says he’s only man in Establishment whose style
suits him.”
“ Ya-as ; heard that ’fore. Muggins nice touch
with the wrist. Saw him nick Egerton, mornin’
suicided.”
(Egerton, formerly Captain of the Onety-Onths,
and a convict attached to Ross Probation Gang,
being flogged by order of Superintendent Argus,
had, tne moment he had been freed from the
triangles, seized a soldier’s musket and shot him-
self.)
“Oh, were you there?”
“ Ya-as ; helped to pick him up.”
“Why—excuse the question—why didn’t you
interfere ?”
“Me !” Ensign Chick positively put some
energy into his response. “Why should I inter-
fere ?”
“Oh, don’t know, ’cept follow'd been brother-
officer, gentleman, and all that. You or lor any-
one high up in service can always beg such a chap
off.”
“ Well I did think of it, but, you see, doctor, I
was new to the System—just out —first post, and,
’sides .”
The youngster stopped short in his self-exculpa-
tory speech.
“ Besides what ?”
“The Chief Justice had sent a private note to
Argus that no favour was to be shown the man.
Egerton, or Dale, as fellow’s prison-name was,
had insulted the C.J. But you’ll keep that to
yourself. ”
“H’m, certainly. But—but, I must go and
see your man. See you later.”
And with a mutual salute the two officers
parted, the military to complete his rounds, and
the civilian to visit a soldier in the cell of the
battlemented tower, and to
“Blast the System !”
* * «
A very extraordinary observation to fall
from a trusted officer of the System ! But it was
in this respect appropriate, as Surgeon Slipshott
was an extraordinary officer.
Nature had done little and fortune less for Fred.
Slipshott. The one had endowed him with just
enough capacity and no more to obtain the
humblest license of the Society of Apothecaries,
and the latter with sufficient cash to pay his
hospital and lecture fees, for his diploma and his
brass-plate. Thus equipped, his professional
course had brought him within • measureable dis-
tance of starvation within a couple of years of his
“ qualification ” and his marriage, for, being penni-
less and unthrifty, he had, of course, at the earliest
possible opportunity, resolved to ease his burden
by sharing it with a wife.
The wolf, however, did not actually arrive at the
door. His wife’s aunt owned a distant connection
who was also a Right Honourable Connection and
had something to do with the colonies—ruled ’em,
in fact, by virtue of a profound ignorance of every-
thing concerning than. And the Great Man had
condescended on the seventy-seventh appeal to
“do something ’’ for the young and anything but
brilliant Esculapius.
“ Give that Slipshott,” he said to the Permanent
Under-Secretary, “ a medical superintendency on
a transport to Hobart Town in New South Wales.
And tell the Governor, whoever he is, to appoint
him to some post when he gets there.”
And so Slipshott, snapping at the billet as the
proverbial drowning-man snaps at the proverbial
straw, was, in due time, enrolled in Her Majesty’s
Service as Assistant-Surgeon, first to a Probation
Gang on Norfolk Bay, and later, to the infamous
Port Arthurites. The latter appointment meant
promotion, £2OO a year instead of £l5O, and a
pretty detached cottage instead of the two rooms
in a log hut, and, yet, the young doctor would
have refused it, but for the conviction that his
refusal would do him harm with the powers that
were.
“ Down here, little one,” he said to his wife, “ I
have some influence. Up at the Settlement I’ll
have none unless I fall in with their ways.”
“That you must never do, Fred,” was the
answer. “Better give up the Service than that!”
“I can’t give up the Service. I wish to God I
could ! But there’s no population out here to
give a new man practice, even if I had the
ability, and that, my dear, you know to your
sorrow, I have not.”
“ Hush ! Fred, or I shall get angry, if you talk
in that way.” And an attempt was made to stop
his mouth with a white, little hand. “If you
are—if you are not very —clever, you’re good
enough for me, dearest. ”
“ I’m good enough for the System, you mean.
And good for nothing else, and, therefore, I’ll
have to take this stop. I can’t quarrel with the
System. But I'm afraid I shall be powerless up
there to soften any of the pris’ners’ hardships.
Boote and Argus, the new super, have no
sympathy with that sort of thing. ”
“Yes, I’m afraid you must accept —we mustn’t
quarrel with the chiefs,” his wife asserted, with a
sigh. “But you won’t get hardened, I’m sure,
and while you keep sympathetic, there’ll always
be a chance of doing a little towards making some
poor wretch’s lot easier.”
“Well, we can but try. But there’ll be so
many eyes upon us there, and so many voices to
denounce an act of kindness as an act of weak-
ness, that we shall have to be careful.”
From which conversation the principal in-
ference to be drawn is that Mr. F. Slipshott,
L.S.A. by diploma and M.D. by courtesy, was
indeed an extraordinary officer—a very extra-
ordinary officer ! Inasmuch as it will be apparent
that he was consciously striving to obey the
System and at the same time to preserve a manly,
a humane and tender heart.
That he should fail was inevitable. Only a man
with a physical and moral backbone knitted in
the strongest fashion and an alert brain had the
slightest chance of success. And poor Slipshott,
though not badly furnished in body and soul was,
as we have hinted, very indifferently supplied in
the upper storey. As he watched, the unfolding
of the subtle immoralities and Satanic ingenuities
of the System, he was driven to despair by his
own incapacity.
“I’m a dashed failure, that’s what I am,” he
would groan into his wife’s ears. “I know when
those devils —for devils they are —I know that
they’re treating the men cruelly, but for the life o’
me I can’t see where they break the Reg’lations.
Take the case, now, of the pier chain-gang. The
Reg’lation is that the average load per man shall
not exceed lOOlbs., and that if an unusually heavy
log is to be carried, fresh men are to be put on
the chain. But when an overseer has a down on
a man, he can throw two hundredweight or over
on the fellow, and then, and then, there’s another
death through deceased’s own neglect!”
“But how, Ned —I don’t understand?”
“Well, this way, if my dunderheadedness will
let me make it clear to you. The Overseer will
order the pris’ner to the end coupling if the gang
are going uphill, but coming down he’ll transfer
the man to the first coupling, and as likely as not
fix him ‘unicorn,’ that is, without a mate. What
happens then ? The scoundrels at the end of the
chain purposely mis-step, the trunk lurches for-
ward, and the doomed wretch in the front has the
weight on his shoulder increased four or five-fold.
If he owns a giant’s strength he can sustain the
strain for a moment, long enough to wriggle from
underneath the log, and then he’s fortunate if he
escapes with a broken leg and a flogging. And
then he’s fortunate, because he gets six months in
hospital, and is let off with a flogging when he’s
all right again—he’s flogged, you know, for shirk-
ing his work in dropping the log ”
A horrified interjection from Mrs. Slipshott—
“Fred!”
“I’m speaking Gospel truth, wife. That’s where
he’s fortunate, I say, for if he has a mate, and
that other’s killed by the log, then the chances ara
all in favour of his being hanged.
“ And what if he hasn’t a giant’s strength ?”
“Then, he simply goes under. You see the
bending of the backs, and note the lurching rush
of the trunk as it’s propelled forward, and then
you hear a horrid ‘ Cr-s-s-sh /’ and you pick up a
mass of bloody flesh.”
“Don’t, dear ! I can’t—bear it!”
“ I thought you wanted to hear all about it ? I’ve
never told you these things before —not the worst
of them—and wouldn’t have gone intodetail to-day,
but you asked me. ’Never understand what a
woman means !”
“ Don’t be angry, Fred, but—it’s too horrible.
And, surely, there’re not many cases like that ?”
“No —not many !” the doctor answered, grimly.
“Average deaths per thousand of population last
year in colony, 15. At this Settlement and Pro-
bation Gangs on Tasman’s Peninsula, 35 per
thousand. Chain-gang death-rate, on an average
strength of sixty men— guess ?”
Mrs. Slipshott shook her head.
“ Fifteen —mostly ‘ accidents ’ such as I’ve
described, deaths under the lash, and gibbetings.
And fifteen deaths in the gang, is at the rate of
250 per thousand.”
“And the Governor, the Authorities, know
this ?”
“As I’ve mentioned to you often before, what
the Governor knows, the Comptrollers tell him.
And the Comptroller tells him what he chooses,
and the Commandant here tells the Comptroller
what he chooses, and the Overseer of the chain-
gang, and men in the like positions, tell the
Commandant what they choose. And if I were to
make a complaint about this logging game, the
Overseer would request the Commandant to have
the log which had killed a man measured, and its
contents divided by the number of prisoners on the
chain, and, of course, a result would be arrived at
which would show that the average weight did not
exceed the Regulation allotment. That’s what
gravels me. A smarter man would find a way to
stop their tricks, but so long as they keep to the,
letter of the Regulations, they beat me. A hun-
dred times a week I notice things occurring,
damnable things, shameful things, but I dare not
interfere, because the staff keep within the Regu-
lations or else within the limits of what the Com-
mandant considers as ‘a fair, discretionary
power.’F Good God ! I wish I had brains, or
money! But I can’t fight the System without. ”
* * #
So, possessing neither brains nor money ;
bound to retain his post at the Establishment as a
means of livelihood, poor, soft-headed and soft-
hearted Slipshott could hit upon no other expe-
dient with which to neutralise the ingenious
diabolisms of the System than hypocrisy.
In conversing with his brother-officers or those
of the military, he adopted the cynical and brutal
tone which it was the proper thing for both classes
to use in referring to convicts.
In addressing prisoners, in the presence of an
official, he would be as truculent, as unbelieving,
as blackguardly, as Superintendent Argus himself.
And he chose his favourites—every Penal Officer
had his favourite villain—from among the vilest
rascals. Which, of course, was also the correct
thing to do. The System did not necessarily hang
the worst criminals. It left a number alive to
fulfill the function of “ Officers’ pets.”
Surgeon Slipshott did all these things, and to
that extent hoodwinked and faithfully obeyed the
System. Only, when he came into direct and
unwatched intercourse with the prisoners, he
threw off his cynicism and brutality, and en-
deavoured to show himself to them as he was—as
a man of sympathetic nature who was sensible of
the iniquities of the existing conditions.


A good bed companion—Wolfe’s Schnapps.
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
Write for plans £lO Building sites, Perth,
Western Australia. Intercolonial Investment
Company, Limited, 9G Bathurst-street, Sydney.
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
The reliable buggies and waggons at 22 and 24
Clarence-street (corner of Margaret-street).
Perfection with Simplicity distinguishes the
Shannon Letter and Bill File. No folding;
all papers open flat. No endorsing ; always in
order of date and alphabet. No indexing ; papers
self-indexed. Disarrangement or loss impossible.
W. M. Maclabdy, 319 Geore-e-street Sydney.
Give the London and Sydney Tea Co. one trial.
They guarantee satisfaction.
The Choicest Jewellery. Daums&Oo., King-st. Arcade
To he Immediately Published:
“In MIDDLE HAEBOUE and other Versoj”
(Chiefly Australian)
By THOMAS HENEY.
London : Kegan, Paul, Trench, Trtioner and Co
Price, Four .Shilling*.
In this volume, the writer has endeavoured to con-
vey his vivid impressions of the life and landscape
of the pastoral regions. Mindful of the admirable
work in such books as Mr. Farrell’s “How H e
Died,” and in the columns of some of the weekly
papers, the writer does not claim to have entered
an unoccupied field, but thinks it will be admitted,
bv those acquainted with the scenes and persons
of his verse, that it is faithful to the virile and
picturesque characteristics of the life of the station,
and the powerful and strange scenery of pas-
toral territory. in a series of eight rhymed
poems, in three blank-verse poems, and in other
verse, it is sought to suggest the dominant features
of this free and vigorous life. In “ A Squatter of
’GB,” an effort has been made to seize the dramatic
moments of the career of a pioneer squatter driven
under. “Pioneer” is an episode of the opening
of new country in South Queensland. Such poems
as “The Boundary Rider,” “At the Tank before
Day,” “The Groom’s Hut,”and “In the Lignum,"
are descriptive. Two poems, “The Shearer”
and “Found Dead,” outline two of the tragedies
of the bush. In these and other verses, the writer
has endeavoured to utilise his knowledge of local
colour derived from residence and travel. The
poem from which the book gets its name is a
lengthy blank-verse study of camping-out, in
which opportunity is taken to introduce a sketch
of one of the most striking incidents of bush-life.
Of the miscellaneous verse not otherwise specified,
suffice it to say it includes ten sonnets, and
several poems of lyrical movement. The contents
of the volume are so far new that they have not
previously been published. They will make a book
of about 112 pages, which can be procured through
the leading booksellers as soon as copies are re-
ceived from London. Of the writer’s previous
book, so competent a critic as Mr. Francis Adams
wrote in warm terms in the Queenslander of
4th December, 1880, reprinted from Brisbane
Courier of immediately previous date. This
review was re-published in the most important
Riverina newspapers.
In. Use 100 Years
THE POOH MAH'S FEIEND.
DR.
S k.h
S KIN
sr
sr
J^KIN
ROBERTS’ OINTMENT,
DISEASES. THIS VALUABLE OINTMENT
(as originally prepared by G. L,
DISEASES. robeRTS, M.D.) is confidently
DISEASES, recommended as an unfailing
remedy for Wounds of every de-
DISEASES, goription, Chilblains, Scorbutic
„. QrQ Eruptions, Burns, Sore and In-
DIS flamed Eyes, Eczema, &c.
Dr. Roberts’ Alternate Pills,
For the BLOOD and SKIN.
J^KIN
J^KIN
8™
j^lvlN
j^KIN
DISEASES. Very effectual in the cure of thal
form of skin disease which show
DISEASES. R ge jf j n painful cracks in the skir
DISEASES the hands and in all seal}
diseases. They may be taken a
DISEASES. ft u times without confinement o
DISEASES. ohange of diet>
Sold at Is. IJd., 2s. 9d., 11s. am
DISEASES. 225. each, by the Proprietors, Brid
port, England.
I
*
4
'
The following important fact cannot be too frequently
impressed upon tlie minds of suffering humanity, that
Mr. Gould, E.8.P., of Bradford, has for soxm time past
and is now giving the Hop prescription for Bitters tc
all applicants who send a Post Office Order for Sixpence
for postage. Anyone in possession of this valuable pre-
scription can for lOd. make a quart of this marvellous
medicine, and for Is. Bd. can make two quarts, suffi-
cient to swerve for two weeks. It may be interesting to
learn that with this prescription all kinds of hopele s
cases have been treated with success when all other
remedies had absolutely failed. People who have been
partly paralysed have been relieved or cured with this
prescription, others have had their reason restored;
people who could not sleep have had their sleep re-
stored, others who could not eat have had their appetite
restored; people who had suffered for years with in-
digestion and its consequences have had their digestive
powers restored; people who have suffered martyrdom
with a disordered liver, nervous debility, Ac., have
been cured; people subject to an accumulation oi
wind and water have found it disappear under its
influence. A gentleman at Lincoln subject to fits
fortnightly has not had a fit from the first moment
he began taking it. People troubled for years with
constipation have had their bowels become regular under
its influence. It is a choice, rare, remarkable remedy.
The prescription is simple, it is cheap, it is good. Those
who haven’t sent for it should. It will be found safe,
sure, and reliable in a most all a Iments incident to the
human frame. It is a tonic, alterative, and an aperient
combined of marvellous curative properties. These
important facts may seem incredible, but it has done
far more than is here claimed for it, proof of which is
sent with each Prescription, and it is given absolutely
free of charge to all applic nts who fend a Post ( ffice
Order for Sixpence for postage of the same. Colonial
stamps or coins are useless. A mode of self-treatment
at home has been a long-felt want by all well-regulated
minds, and will be found exceedingly advantageous
to sensible persons who desire to know what they
are swallowing. Address Mr. GOULD. E.B Pm 479,
Munches* er-road, Bradford, Yorks, England r her
writing name this paper.
Kim ills W
BRITISH
ARGOSY
BRACES,
<0
&
A-Lasting Favourite with all Wearers-
Patented «t- Sole Manufaclurcmfvr Great Britain
and the Colonics ,
w. Blenkiron «& Son,
123 WOOD STREET. LONDON.
Thus, he saved many a prisoner from receiving
a full Hogging, and sent numbers into hospital
when, perhaps, they suffered from nothing more
than the trifling ailments (as the System estimated
them) of a broken heart or a crushed spirit. This
weakness of his thrust very frequently double tides
of work upon him, for when ho ordered a man to
■ hospital whose suffering, while real, was not
tangible, he was compelled to find an excuse for
relieving his brother-surgeons of the patient’s care.
“Look here, Kerr,” he’d say to his senior,
“you look seedy, old man. Better run up town,
hadn’t you, for a week ? I’ll bolus your black-
guards for you.” And Dr. Kerr, nothing loth to
sneak a holiday, would admit to being out of
sorts, and would dissipate in Hobart Town just
long enough to enable Slipshott’s patient to pick
up new strength.
It was this readiness of Slipshott to assist both
his fellow-medicos and the creatures upon whom
tlie Law had fixed its fangs that had occasioned
that visit to the military dungeon, on making
which he had encountered Ensign Chick.
Gore, junior regimental surgeon of the 50th,
was on a visit to the capital, having arranged
with “ Slippy ” to look after the guards’ hospital.
Private Ernest Trench, of the 50th, having-
broken his sergeant-major’s spine with a musket
ball, and been, consequently, sentenced by court
martial to stand in front of a platoon at ten paces,
would have none of the religious consolations
which the Regiment and the System graciously
tendered him. All that he would consent to do
was to see that “ damned good-natured fool,
Croaker Slippy.”
Some of the keener-witted prisoners had taken
Slipshott’s measure, and in a quiet way had trans-
mitted an account of his real character to the
soldiers’ cantonments. Thus, when Private
Trench, duly incarcerated in the cell at the base
of the battlemented tower which was exclusively
reserved for the military condemned, insulted first
one clergyman and then the other, his comrades
urged him to send for Slipshott.
“ You’ll want to send some messages to the folks
at ’ome, won’t you, Trench ?” his corporal had
suggested. “ An’ as ye won’t see the parsons, an’
’ate the subaltern, ye’ll ’ave to see the Croaker, or
uo’un.”
* * *
The doctor found the condemned soldier
sitting on his stretcher, manacled and fettered.
Trench’s face bore the lines of fine breeding, over-
lain by the sodden aspect of the sot.
“You want to see me, my man?” Slipshott
asked, as he motioned the sentry to close the cell-
door.
“ Yes, doctor,” replied Trench. “But, please
drop the professional and the superior official for
a few moments, if you can, and let me speak to
you as man to man.”
The doctor, though naturally surprised at an
address of this sort from a common private,
nodded assent. Trench’s words had the purity of
accent of an educated man, and, coupled with the
evidence of his features, revealed to Dr. Slipshott
that he had to do with the dissolute and broken-
down “swell.”
“Thanks, doctor. I suppose you understand
by this time that I did not always belong to the —
h’m —‘ rankers ’?”
The surgeon nodded again.
“Well, I shall be obliged if you’ll do me a
favour—you’re the only man in the Settlement I’d
ask.”
“I’ll do it if I can, and if it involves no par-
ticular breach of duty.”
“ It’s very simple. You know there’s a party
of visitors coming from Hobart Town to view this
pretty show-place, and the turtle-doves and
domestic pets caged here ?”
“I know some English ladies and gentlemen
are coming. They’ll be here shortly, if they’re
not here already. The signal showed they were
at the head of Norfolk Bay two hours ago. The
tramway and boat will have brought ’em here by
this. But what about ’em ? ! ”
“ Don’t let them see me ! That's my request.”
The Doctor thought the private’s appeal a very
natural one. Nothing caused the hundreds of
educated criminals at the Settlement greater pain
or a more shameful humiliation than the occa-
sional inspection by curious visitors. Slipshott
was, however, doubtful of his capacity to prevent
the tourists viewing the tower, one of the show-
spots of Port Arthur, and said so.
“ I don’t see how I can. The Commandant is
proud of the architecture of this tower, and,
besides, the view from the battlements is particu-
larly grand.”
“ You must, Dr. Slipshott. Say I’m suffering
from infectious disease, or so desperate that more
murder’ll be done if I’m to be trotted out for their
inspection.”
“ That’s nonsense, my good m—l mean, Trench.
That would make ’em more anxious to see you, and
the officer of the day would merely strengthen the
guards, and put forty-pound irons on you.”
“ Neither would stop me from getting at him,”
hissed the soldier, “not even though she was
standing by.” And he beat his manacled hands
against the pallet.
“What d’ye mean?” demanded the Surgeon,
amazed at the sudden passion displayed by the
doomed private as well as the strangeness of his
remark.
“Oh ! of course, you don’t know. How could
you know ? And I may as well tell you, though I
didn’t intend to have said a word. The reference
slipped out.” He paused for a second and then re-
sumed : “ You have heard who these people are?”
“ I did hear, but have forgotten. All I remem-
ber is that a Member of Parliament and his
daughter are in the lot.”
“ Well, I knotu and it. was the knowledge that
made me shoot the non-com. The House of Com-
mons man is named Ernest Trench Leppell.
That’s my name, too. Now do you understand?”
“ Good God ! But your name is Trench, isn’t
it?”
“No! I dropped the surname when I’listed,
of course. The name’s the same. The old scoun-
drel’s my godfather—and my uncle—him. And
the girl with him. God bless her, is—is my cousin,
and was (the tragic bitterness of that was !) en-
gaged to be my wife. Now, will you sanction them
poking me up and inspecting me, for the wild
beast that I am ?”
“ I’ll —try —” said the Surgeon, still more
astounded.' “ That is, if you give me your wo'rd
you are .”
“Telling the truth? Heavens, man! Why
should I lie to you now ? Do you think I’d care
if it were myself or that scoundrel only to be con-
sidered ? Why, I’d rejoice that he should see me,
so that I could taunt him. The sight and the
words should haunt his memory and burden his
conscience till his dying day. But it’s the girl—l
don’t wish to kill her ! She thinks I’m dead.”
The stupid and sympathetic surgeon, _ shocked
by this revelation, yet hadn’t the least idea how
to act.
“I’m very sorry, but I don’t see what I’m to
do. I’d do anything to help you, and the young
lady, but if the man is an M.P. he’ll want to see
everything.”
“ Of course he will! Don’t I know him ! And
he’ll be the more anxious to see everything because
of the disclosures about his mines.”
“What, is he Leppell, the mine-owner?”
“Yes, Leppell, the mine-owner—Leppell, em-
ployer of six and seven-year-old children whom he
harnessed with iron girdle and chain to coal-
trucks—Leppell, the Christian philanthropist —
Leppell, the Puritan, who cut his brother’s son
adrift because he loved wine, woman, and song—
that’s the Leppell who’s come to these parts to
inform himself of the Colonial and Penal ques-
tions ! He’s the Leppell who’ll go home and make
such a fuss about the colonies and the Depen-
dencies of the great Empire on which the sun
never sets, that people’ll forget about the children
who never saw the sunlight except on Sundays.
He’ll go home and report on the intense loyalty of
the colonies, and the perfection of the transporta-
tion system —Ugh ! That’s the Leppell. Now,
you’ll stop them coming? ”
“ I’ll do my best, then,” answered the Surgeon.
“But what did you mean when you said just now
that it was this man’s visit that made you shoot
the non-com.”
“This; I was just off sentry-duty at Eagle-
hawk Neck, and was crossing to quarters with
another private when we saw the semaphore arms
flying rapidly. T’other fellows cried out; ‘ Race
you up, Trench, to see what the signal is ! ’ We
slung the muskets, and started uphill to the signal-
post. Of course, we’d no right there, and _no
right to know the signal, but if the chiefs think
either the military or the prisoners don’t know
every message that’s sent to and from the city
they’re greatly mistaken. I got to the top first,
though I was pretty puffy from the previous
night’s drinking—the officers ’ll tell you I was
never sober ; but that’s a lie, I was rarely—and the
convict in charge read the signal to me as he was
passing it on to the Long Bay. God ! I remember
the way how the fellow mumbled and mouthed the
words.”
He mimicked the slow utterance of the signal-
man : “ English Sydney—visitors coming—
inspect—Settlement in—two—three —days. Have
—everything—order—as—party—includes—mem-
ber—House —Commons —Leppell—daughter ”
“ I listened up to that last word,” Trench con-
tinued, after a breathless space, “and the whole
thing flashed upon me—what it would mean to me
—and her, if she should see me. For you must
know, doctor, she’d have married me in spite of
all my wildness, but she wouldn’t disobey the old
man.
“And then I rushed downhill—mad. I was
mad ; lam sure of it. For a few minutes—mad —
till I’d shot the non-com.”
“But what had he to do with the matter or
them ?”
“ I’m coming to that. Nothing ! I went towards
the huts under the sand-hummocks, with seven
devils inside of me crying furious’y for revenge !
blood ! And then, as Satan would have it, the
Sergeant-Major came round the hummock. I had
no grievance against him —none ! He was the
best friend I had in the regiment—used often to
keep me straight—but the devils were in me !
“He turned to look at the Semaphore, which
was still busy—telling the Settlement to put all
thS ugly things out of sight, I suppose ! —and his
back was towards me. And I thought what a
splendid target he’d make—and wished to heaven
it was man ancle, and —and the next thing I
remember is feeling quite calm and collected,
holding the smoking musket in my hand and
seeing the Sergeant-Major in front o’ me lying
prone. I had shot him in my mad spasm. For
you, as a medical man, will perhaps agree that I
.was mad.”
A shuddering nod of acquiescence was given by
the Doctor. It was a case like hundreds made
familiar to him by his experiences under the
System. A prisoner would bear up for years
against the pressure of the penal regime, and then
would commit some act of apparently purposeless
atrocity which became explicable only when it
could be attributed to a sudden lesion of the
brain.
“ Why did you not tell something of this to the
Court-martial ? ”
“ What could I have told that they'd have
believed? And it’s just as well as it is. Had I
been free, and been on guard when my uncle
came to visit the Wreck, I believe, on my soul,
that I’d have shot him. And that would ha’ been
bad for my—for the girl. No ! —it’s best as it is.
My only hope now is that neither’ll hear or see
anything of me. ”
A hurry of feet on the pave, and a rattle of
muskets and door-chains interrupted the talk.
Slipshott had only time to whisper to the Con-
demned that he would do all in his power to meet
his wishes, and to press his hand, when Ensign
Chick appeared at the cell-entrance.
“ Oh, you here still, Slipshott? Just come to
see if everything’s shipshape for the visitors.
They’ll want to see you, Trench, my man, so be
on your best behaviour. There’s a Member of
Parliament among ’em and we want a good
report. ”
“Take my advice, Chick,” said the Surgeon
with an assumption of grimness, “clear out of
here yourself, and don’t let the visitors come any-
where about. Trench is suffering from —ah —
smallpox.”
Ensign Chick backed away, aghast. “Good
God ! Are you sure?”
Slipshott nodded, and Chick hastened away to
report.
Trench laughed as the door closed. “ A good
thought, doctor.”
“it may be too good,” rejoined Slipshott.
“ They may hurry on the ”
“The execution—well, so much the better.”
* # #
That was precisely what did happen. The
original intention was to platoon Private Trench
the next morning at seven o’clock. The Com-
mandant, who had returned from the capital with
the party of distinguished visitors, on hearing that
the condemned soldier was suffering from smallpox,
begged the Captain of the detachment to execute
him that evening, and head-quarters approval of
the Court Martial’s finding having been received
by the same boat that brought the visitors, the
Captain signified his willingness to oblige the
Commandant.
“Not the least objection personally,” he said.
“It’s only a question of the prisoner himself, and
the parsons.”
“Oh, you needn’t trouble, sir, about them, L
think,” exclaimed Ensign Chick. “Private
Trench grossly insulted both chaplains.”
“Dear, dear!” joined in Mr. Leppell, M.P.,
who was standing by, “ what a desperate offender
he.must be. Did you say his name was Trench ? ”
“Yes, sir—Private Trench.”
“He, lie ! how funny. Trench is one of my
names. And you are really going to execute him
this evening ?
“Yes, sir—six o’clock.”
“ I’m engaged to dine with you, Mr. Comman-
dant, I think —I and my ladies. Shall I have
time to dress after the execution, for—he, he ! —I
should like to sec it ? ”
And he did. _
PRICE WARUNG.
Effeminate Literature.
“Mb. Hall Caine,” said a London interviewer
to the author of “The Bondman,” “have you
read Grant Allen’s recent ouburst in Ihe
Speaker against the bloodthirstiness of the taste
of the English people in literature, art, and
drama ?”
“Oh, yes,” said Mr, Caine, “I read Grant
Allen, but I do not agree either with him or his
critics. They rose in wrath and pointed to notable
novelists in whom there was said to bo no such
passion for blood. Well, the very names they
used convicted them, and they ignored several of
the most popular. But why should not literature
be bloodthirsty ? What is the offence ? Scott,
Richardson, Fielding, all the great literature of
the past, has been so. Remember this ; When the
taste in fiction is not for blood, it is nearly always
for something worse—sensuality. Which of the
two is the more unwholesome —which would we
wish most to repudiate—the sensuality of France
and its literature, or the noble bloodthirsti-
ness of the old Sagas, of the Greeks, of
our heroic English ? Just look around and
see what is going on in English art, litera-
ture, drama. Instead of too much blood there
is too little, if it be the alternative for
lust. It is always lust now. Take the drama
and look at the pieces going. ‘The Village
Priest’ turns on a base alliance. In ‘ The Man’s
Shadow,’ the pivot is that one of the two husbands
thinks his wife is disloyal with his bosom friend.
These plays of French origin are nearly always
sheer stories of lust. Perhaps you say, ‘To the
pure, all things,’ &c. Wretched cant, sii’, in this
connection! There is at least something virile
and manly in bloodthirstiness, there is nothing
but what is basest, and cruelest, and meanest in
sensuality. Look at ‘The Dead Heart,’ ‘La
Tosca,’ ‘Partners,’ ‘ The Profligate,’a noble play
—but still lust, lust,_ lust. The whole scope and
scheme, aim and direction of French literature
in nearly evei'y novel that makes itself felt is
toward lust—Zola, Daudet, Paul Bourget, Flau-
bert, the Goncourts. English literature is a thou-
sand times purer, and its purest part is that which
is most bloodthirsty. There is blood enough
in ‘Lorna Doone,’ and yet the book is purity
itself. ‘ The Master of Ballantrae ’ is also
bloody, but pure. Black’s best book, ‘ Macleod of
Dare,’ends with murder and suicide. When you
come to modern English books with no blood in
them, they are often either insipid or impure. I
never pick up the reviews without finding that the
plots of more than half the new novels turn on
illicit love. This running away from blood is an
effeminate thing. There is too little blood flowing
nowadays through English literature. And this I
take to be a sign of the effeminate spirit of the
times. It shows itself in the worship of such a
man as Shelley, and ‘Ouida’ and Grant Allen
are brave enough to tell us that any woman would
have been honored if Shelley had made her his
mistress or trodden her under his feet. They say,
in effect, ‘ Would it not be a distinction to be
seduced by Goethe?’ This utter unmanliness
makes one'sick. It reminds me of the story of the
little Italian coxcomb who used to introduce his
Avife as ‘ a past mistress of the celebrated Lord
Byron.’ The temper of mind of that little man
was laughed at fifty years ago, but now it
seems to be imitated. It has come to be
thought that a man of genius can make
other claims upon his fellow-creatures than
are proper to men of the world. A man of
genius should be required to behave as other men
behave, or else be kicked. For pity’s sake, let us
banish this effeminacy which leads to so much
silly talk and silly ivriting. ”
“But,” urged the interviewer, “do you not
think that to a certain extent Avomen writers are
to blame for this sort of thing ? They seem to be
the greatest offenders.”
“Certainly they are,” Mr. Caine replied ; “the
woman author is a thing of our own generation.
There have been Fanny Burney, and Mrs.
Radcliffe, and Lady Blessington, in time past,
Avho Avrote and published, but they did not make
it the regular business of life. Well, Alien women
became professional litterateurs, they had to do
Avhat they could —not always what they would—
and their experiences did not include adventures,
fights, battles, duels; in short, they knew
nothing of blood and could write nothing
about it. What they did knoAv, if they
Avere healthy-minded women, Avas Avhat Jane
Austen kneAV—the manners, whims, eccentricities
of polite society. If they Avere women of un-
healthy instincts, what they kneAV were the secret
and base complications of sexual passion. Is it
not a common remark that half the books Avhieh
deal —not with struggles leading to blood,
with base passions—are written by Avomen ? Even
Charlotte Bronte, a woman Avho Avas half a man in
the temper of her mind and character —even her
chief book is on this theme. ‘ Jane Eyre ’is a
story, magnificently told, of one of the meanest,
basest, ugliest complications it is possible to think
of. There you have, perhaps, the noblest and
finest example of what a Avoman with her neces-
sarily limited experience of life could do. But
the more umvorthy of her imitators, who could
not imagine such a complication as the spiritual
tragedy of Jane’s own life, and could only invent
the squalid relation of Rochester and his mad
Avife, have gone on producing out of evil ex-
perience these base amours. I agree very largely
with Count Lyof Tolstoi, in his ‘Kreutzer
Sonata,’ and hold that the love-passion, both on
its spiritual and on its sensual sides, is exalted by
modern writers to such undue importance that it
seems to consume the best energies of man. If
Ave believe the novels and plays of the time, there
is next to nothing in life but love, and next to
nothing in love but lust. LoA ; e is a part, not the
Avhole, of life. But it so dominates literature now
that if it Avas forbidden to dramatists and novelists
to touch upon the illicit side of love, nearly all the
theatres would be closed and not a hundredth
part of the novels would be written. Our time of
prolonged peace has something to be charged with
in this relation. In a peaceful age the true virility
of men seems to be drained away. The placid
unhealthiness of peace nearly always reacts in-
juriously on literature. No, I say, if literature
must either be bloody or sensual, then ‘ Long life
to Bloodthirstiness ! ’ ”


Medical.
NERVOUS MEN.
A NEVER FAILING- CURE FOR ALL.
DISEASES OF THE NERVOUS SYSTEM.
Complete with Suspensory Appliances from £l. 0. 0 and
Upwards. This famous Electric Magnetic Belt will cure
NERVOUS DEBILITY, Seminal Debility, _ Impotence,
and all weakness caused by indiscretion. Pains in the
Back, Lumbago, Giddiness, Rheumatism, Kidney and
Bladder complaints, and in fact any disease of the Nervous
System. The currents are steady and constantly felt by
the wearer. It has great improvements over all other
belts, we are willing to furnish those belts on 30 days
trial, and accept payment after they have proved them-
selves what we represent them to be. Those belts are
made for the specific purpose of producing a bontindous,
mild, soothing current of electricity through all the weak-
ened parts, restoring them to health and vigorous strength,
even the worst case permanently cured in three months.
It is more convenient to wear than any other Belt.
A Book illustrated, containing full information and testi-
monials from prominent people throughout Australia,
and informing persons how they may obtain these belts
without paying for them until they have proved them com-
petent to cure any disease of the Nervous .System, will be
forwarded to any address on receipt of a 2d stamp far
\ I \ EUREKA V
ELECTRIC BELTmvS
iV x , >nk
postage. *>
Address
VOLTAIC BELT COMPANY
Box 916, G. P. O.J Svdnby.
MEN
FOR
Loss of Nerve Force.
Debility a. rid Decay.
may be perfectly regained by the OAV
IsTXOISH
treatment'.' 1 One Box. 12s. 6d„
Full Course, £l. Trenttee sent sealed, 4 Stamps.
iadxesa--Tbo CAVENDISH laboratory.
* aQr £3 BUS SELL BTEEEX, MELBOURNE, VIC
DEBILITATED
WEAK ft no"!
neruousZ3l
AN OLD RETIRED
french Hospital
PHYSICIAN will now
send free how to cure
Nervous and Sexual
Weaknesses, Blood, 8k ;n
and Contagious Diseases.
Send six penny stamps
for sealed Treatise and
HOME CURE. Parisian Agency, Box 76G, Sydney.
ISfff
% 1801 °
Trieoplierons
FOR THE
HAIR ft SKIN
An elegant dressing ex-
quisitely perfumed, re-
moves all impurities from
the scalp, prevents bald-
ness and gray hair, and causes the hair to grow
Thick. Soft and Beautiful. Infallible for curing
eruptions, diseases of the skin, glands and muscles,
and quickly healing cuts, burns, bruises, sprains, &c.
Caution,— None genuine without the trade-mark of
Babclat & Co., Sew York, affixed to each bottle.
n\
Barry's
Pearl
Cream
forth©
Complexion
Imparts to the darkest akin a clear, natural white,
tinged with the faintest rose-blush. Speedily removes
Wrinkles, Freckles, Sunburn and Tan, and mantles
the faded cheek with youthful bloom and beauty. ’
CAUTION.—None genuine without the trade-mark
of Barclay & Co., New York, affixed to each bottle
“Throw Physic
to th<
Dogs!
jy
TRY NATURE'S OWN REMEDY,
ELECTRICITY.
PROFESSOR
MINIATURE
ALLEN'S
Galvanic Battery
la acknowledged by Eminent Physicians, and by
thousands of sufferers to bo a positive Remedy for
yearly all the,nilv\oiits mankind is heir to. The effl-
iacy of this Wonderful Invention as a curative agent
is certainly The Crowning Medical and Scien-
tific Triumph of the 19th Century.'
This BATTERY is not larger than a half-crown
piece, and is worn on the chest, next the skin, suspen-
ded by a silk cord around the neck. The several
metals of which it is composed are so arranged that the
natural humidity of the skin is sufficient to set the chem-
icals in the amalgamated metals in motion, generating
a constant but gentle flow of Electricity which passes
from the Battery into the system, purifying the Blood,
strengthening the Ncrves.lßrnin and Muscles,infusing
fresh vigor into the Debilitated Constitution, Stimu-
lating the Vital Organs to their proper action and en-
abling nature to throw.off numerous diseases.
The Battery will cure the following ailments
Headache, Rheumatism, Sciatica, Neuralgia, Ulcers,
and Tumors, Nervous Debility, Impotence, Liver Com-
plaints, Fever and Ague, Disease of the Kidneys and
Urinal Organs, Bronchitus, Asthma, Diphtheria. Fils,
Constipation, Piles, Heart Disease, Paralysis, Disease
of the Lungs and Throat, Skin Disorders, and almost
every form of Aches and Pains.
The Battery lias a soothing effect upon children,
while teething. Illustrated Circular sent free, giving
full particulars and directions for use,
jF’mtriE:
By Post to any address, or supplied by all Chemists
and Storekeepers. H. DAVY & Co , Agents, 254
BUeabeth St„ Melbourne,
Medical.
r wonderful medicine.
Beecham’s Pills
PATENT
PILLS.
Are universally admitted
to be worth a Guinea
a Box for bilious
and nervous disorders,
such as wind and pain in
the stomach, sick head-
ache, giddiness, fulness
and swelling after meals,
dizziness, and drowsiness,
cold chills, flushings of
heat, loss of appetite,
shortness of breath, cos-
tiveness, scurvy, blotches
on the skin, disturbed
sleep, frightful dreams,
and all nervous and trem-
bling sensations, &c. The
first dose will give relief
in twenty minutes. Every
sufferer is earnestly invited to try one box of these
Bills, and they will be acknowledge to be
Worth a Guinea a Box.
For females of all ages these Pills are invaluable,
as a few doses of them carry off all humors, and
bring about all that is required. No female should
be without them. There is no medicine to be found
equal to BEECH AM’S PILLS for removing any
obstruction or irregularity of the system. If taken ac-
cording to the directions given with each box they wall
soon restore females of all ages to sound and robust
health. This has been proved by thousands who have
tried them, and found the benefits which are ensured by
their use
For a weak stomach, impaired digestion and all disorders
of the liver, they act like “ MAGIC,” and a few doses will
be found to work wonders upon the most important
organs in the human machine. They strengthen the
whole muscular system, restore the long-lost complexion,
bring back the keen edge of appetite, and arouse into ac-
tion with the ROSEBUD of health the whole physical
energy of the human frame. These are “FACTS” testified
continually by members of all classes of society ; and
one of the best guarantees to the nervous and debilitated
is, Beecham’s Pills have the largest sale of any patent
medicine in the world,
Beecham’s Magic Cough Pills.
As a remedy for Coughs in general, Asthma, Bronchial
Affections, Hoarseness, Shortness of Breath, Tightness
and Oppression of the Chest, Wheezing, &c., these Pills
stand unrivalled. They are the best ever offered to the
public and w ill speedily remove that sense of oppression
and difficulty of bteathing which _ nightly deprive the
patient of rest. Let any person give Beecilam’s Cough
Pills a trial and the 'most violent Cough will in &
short time be removed.
Prepared only and sold wholesale and retail by the pro-
prietor, Thomas Beeoham, Chemist, St. Helens, Lancashire,
England, in boxes at Is. l£d. and 2s. 9d. each.—Sold by
all Druggists and Patent Medicine Dealers everywhere.
N.B.—Full directions are given with’ each box.
KisS
i ! *?
a
'
*
IF SO,
DON’T MISS THIS!
What everyone says is bound to be true, and j oung
and old, rich and poor, physicians who recommend, and
patients who try
The Krupp Galvanic Chain Belt,
All agree in praising that most scientific of Electro
Therapeutical Appliances. For Rheumatism it is un-
rivalled. Lumbago at once succumbs to its power. The
Nervous are strengthened and the Debilitated restored to
perfect health and vigour. In short, the appliance is an
unfailing cure for all Nervous, Sexual, or Chronic Diseases,
and is GUARANTEED to ABSOLUTELY CURE, com-
pletely and lastingly, the following complaints;
Dyspepsia, Neuralgia, Pains in the Back and Chest,
Lumbago, Catarrh, Rheumatism, Dumb Ague,
Nervous Debility, Paralysis, Kidney Complaint,
Spinal Disease, Female Weakness, Diseases of the
Liver, Impotence, Seminal 7 Vcakness, Diabetes,
Sciatica; Atrophy, Gout, Indigestion, Asthma, Piles,
Epilepsy Spermatorrhoea,, Specks before the Eyes,
Excessive Heart Palpitation, Defective Memory.
An inrailing Cure B'or Varicocele.
It is a PORTABLE BODY BATTERY, and contains
special appliances for both sexes; therefore, why waste
your money and health by procuring and faking USELESS
DRUGS? Electricity, when properly applied, is acknow-
ledged by all leading and unprejudiced physicians to bo
the only safe and radical euro for Nervous and Sexual
Diseases, and the thousands of testimonials received by
the Krupp Belt Co. from leading personages throughout
Australasia prove the unquestionable curative properties
of Elect ricity as applied by the appliance above referred to.
Our confidence in this appliance is so complete, that
wc send the Belt out on trial, and guarantee it
to give perfect satisfaction. For full particulars as to
terms, etc., send for our large illustrated treatise, rate,
in which these Belts are fully illustrated, the action of
electricity on the nervous system explained, and a lot of
useful information on nervous and sexual diseases given.
This treatise also contains facsimile of toatiiponials received
from some of our clients who have trietl our Belts. The
originals of these testimonials produced on application.
K-y The prices of the Krupp Galvanic Chain Bolt and
Suspensory are from £l.
Sole Inventor Carl Knurr.
Business Manager . . A. W. Courtney.
Address all communications to the
Krupp Salvanic Chain Belt Co,,
Box 647, G. 8.0., Sydney, N.S.W.
Remember—The K.G. Chain Belt cures without medicine,
is easy to wear, is sent on approval, and the first cost is
the only cost.
CONSULT PROFESSOR SELBY,
370 Cleveland Street, Surry Hills, Sydney,
Personally or by letter on Chronic Complaints
of the Nervous System, Idiseases of the Urinary
Organs and all Impurities of the Blood. A Positive
Cure all cases amendable to treatment. Suf-
ferers should road the Professor’s valuable treatise,
sent post free to all who send their address. It
contains Advice on Marriage, worth its weight
in gold.
Business Announcements.
The bank of new Zealand
Sydney Branches:
64 PITT STREET, and 538 GEO?:OF. STREET.
Paid-up Capital
Uncalled Capital
Reserve Liability ...
£825,000
75,000
1,500,000
£2,400,000
The Bank has Agents in all the principal cities
throughout the United States of America and
Canada, and can offer special facilities for dealing
in Bullion, Bills of Exchange, Commercial and
Travellers’ Letters of Credit.
Drafts issued and Bills collected on most favour-
able terms, at rates which can be ascertained on
application.
N. F, GIBLIN, Manager.
H
A BLESSING IN EVERY FAMILY.
OLLOWAY’S PILLS AND OINTMENT.
There is not a country in the civilised world where
the healing virtuesof thes » grand medicines have not been
recognised by thousands of sufferers. In all the ordinary
ailments of humanity their beneficent action is at once
recognised. Fullest directions are supplied for their use
in every disease. IF YOU SUFFER, TRY THEM. Manu-
factured only at 78 New Oxford-st., London. S-ST" Pur-
chasers should look to the Label on the Boxes and Pots.
If the address is not 523 Oxford-street, London, they are
spurious.
CV3
\>s
<v
<2
1C
9s
EVERY/
ESCRB RTIOfi
0 ■■
m
private
22*24
ROYAL ARCADE x
MELBOURNE
J. SITTERLIN,
FROM PARIS,
Ladies' Hairdresser. Wigmaker, Si Perfumer,
25 SYDNEY ARCADE, SYDNEY.
HISTORICAL and fancy hairdressing a
SPECIALTY.
Manufacturer of All Kinds op Theatrical
and Street Wigs.
Ammonlatcd Qnlnlne,
The most efficient Hair Lotion, to prevent prema-
ture baldness,
Sitterlin's Vegetable Hair-dye,
The only Hair-dye in the colonies to restore .Light
Hair to its natural colour. All shades.
£3ixccess G-iJ.aran.teed..
GEORGE STREET
SYDNEY
IMPORTERS OFALLTHE
NEWEST SHAPES.
And at ALBERT STREET, BRISBANE.
Waugh'S
fU
(0
THE BEST
IN THE WORLD
%
&
INC
35?
PO
gasariMWaK^a.
wsss^m
MANUFACTURED 6V . . „. , „. ,A,
&.J/m£S CHMNOhS/arlwvrS* Jt
v 7A U, n il *yAnreAt\ ft S/erefoefrero <t'
/ atCi «M<?C
Business Announcements.
A m BOWMAN’S
LONDON MADE
Porpoise Hide Boots
Are Reduced from 30s. to 21s.
249 PITT ST., SYDNEY, Near Tattersall's.
Porpoise Hide Wears Twice as Long
as any other* Leather.
They are noted all oyer London,
Birmingham mid Liverpool.
Xa<oaa.c3L 021 IlT’Ea.stla.i.csxxs,
AND
Fresh Goods Every Fortnight.
Trade Supplied Wholesale at a Great Advantage.
Vitse,
The Great Life Remedy & Tonic Invigorator,
IS the Best and Only Medicine which shows a
good result from the moment you take the
first dose. It acts on the blood like a charm, and
tones the internal secretions to healthy action,
restores strength to the stomach, and enables it to
perform its functions ; and for regulating the liver
and kidneys it has no equal. Price —4s. per
package. Also the Great Cure for Catarrh and
Influenza —the Arbor Vitse Oil, 2s. 6d. per
bottle. Sold by all Storekeepers and Druggists.
Sole Agents for New South Wales—
•na.n SutijlxoirlEkxxd =Sz 00.
Wholesale and Retail Tobacconists,
84 King Street, Newtown, SYDNEY.
WILLIAM CARGILL,
Photographic Stock Importer,
26 STREET,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
V'
—lts causes, symptoms, andpatho-
_ l. gy, together with a description
of a NEW and SUCCESSFUL METHOD of TREAT-
MENT WITHOUT OPERATION. Post free, two
stamp i.
PROFESSOR CARL STINEWAY,
21 ELIZABETH ST., MELBOURNE, VIC.
Dr. westcott’S amenorrhcea
PILLS for Ladies, when taken for a few
days before, quickly correct all irregularities
from whatever cause arising ; 2s. 9d. and 4s. 6d.,
by post 3s. and ss. W. H. SOUL and 00., 190
Pitt-street, Sydney, Agents.
EPPS’S
GRATEFUL —COMFORTING
COCO A.
Read ! Read ! Head I
“ THE BULLETIN’S ”
History of Botany Bay,
By Arthur Gayll.
Profusely Illustrated by The Bulletin’s well-
known Artists,
L. HOPKINS and PHIL MAY.
Price One Shilling
Per post, Is. 3d.
Hotels.
the geoege hotel
(opposite Railway Station, near Baths),
St. Hilda, Victoria.
First-class Family & Commercial Hotel.
tw For particulars, apply to
PROPRIETOR.
PFAHLBET’S HOTEL,
SYDNEY, N.8.W.,
Opposite the Park, Wyiiyard Square.
(Under Xcw Management.)
mHIS for 26 years well-known First-class Central Hotel,
-1 recently thoroughly renovated throughout , has every
comfort and attention of a home. The Cuisine Department
is under competent French supervision. Dining Room
open for Non-Residents. Open-air Recreation Garden.
A well-ventilated Billiard Room adjoining Recreation
Ground (three Alcock’s best Tables), under the manage-
ment of A. Buckingham, late of Empire Hotel. Winc‘
and Spirits of the very best quality only, and the Finest
and Coolest Bar in Town
HOT AND COLD BATHS.
j»r Mt.iir roitrcst. Fwncii
Tellium
T«'h’|»lioiic *<>. I> r >0. Kalian
Spolu U.
SPECIAL SUITES FOR F A Mil
CHAS. HECHT MiNAsna.


'
AUCTIONEERS and GENERAL AGENTS
(JOHNEII
Queen’s Street and Flinders Lane,
BRANCH OFFICES:
32 Chapel Street, Prahran;
2 Albert Street, Windsor.
ELBOURNE.
8. H. SMITH & SOiM
MANUFACTURERS & IMPORTERS OF
RPJD 0/IP g,
302 George Street, Sydney,
8 Doors South of Hunter Street.
• . . ■:
m
S^X
Sole Agents for —
HEART HEATH,
Oxford Street, London.
Ill I
w
A
m
m
'
ii a #
WHY REMAIN DEAF
Deafness completely cured by Professor Harvey’s
Patent Electric Head Battery. Self-applied and pain-
less. Ear-drums completely superseded.
Pamphlet free. 145 Collins “Street East. Melbourne.
BCiLIsOTGESi’B CHAMPAGNE.
X)I^3T-—EXTEA QTJAAILiITNr.
SOLE AGENTS Foil NEW SOUTH WALES—
CHARLES BATH & CO.,
4 Bridge Street, SYDNEY.
SORIN’S BRANDY,
In Bulk or Case, Guaranteed the pure product of the Cognac Grape,
IS THIS BEST.
Otrfco Sjxiiea.oE- Oc 3o© Kezit-st.,
Sole Wholesale Agents.
3yc3.2ta.oy,
%
1
1
■
i
i
YORK S T ’WYNYARD • S QUAJRE •
CompLeTeHoUje FUrHisHeks
jSEND FOR CATALOGUE -*|
H. 3&. Leach,
SUCCESSOR TO
GB. MOBINI, Gunmaker, informs his Customers
■ and the Public in general that he has the largest
assortment of Firearms in the colony. Qualities and prices
to defy competition. Guns by the following celebrated
gunmakersJ. Purdky & Sous, On. Boswell, John Riqbt
and Co., Joseph Lang & Sons, Ch. Osborne & Co., Thomas
Bland & Son, W. Powell & Sons. A large assortment of
various other makers always on hand, viz., W. W. Greener
Scott, Webley, Hollis & Sons, Kilby and Oashmorb. All
goods will be faithfully guaranteed at 602, George-
street, Sydney. Price list on application. ya
Facial Flemishes Salomon’sSaveCnrc
I aUiCU JJICUUiSiitiAi t SPEEDILY REMOVES;
Pimples, Bleakheads, Rod Nose, Oily Skin , Red Skin and all
Cutaneous Eruptions, etc. Herr H. Salomon, expert
specialist, treats with great skill all Cutaneous Diseases
and guarantees a quick and permanent cure. Persons
desiring treatment can, by forwarding a full description
of their case and £2, receive by return of post, the
medicines required. NERVOUS DEBILITY successfully
treated. Price, £1 per course, medicines sent unobserved
AddressHEßß H. SALOMON, Post Office, Auckland,
New Zealand.
■
JOHN SUCKHAM,
419 ELIZABETH STREET, MELBOURNE.
HI ENT, Tarpaulin, and Waterproof Cover
1 Manufacturer. Horse Rugs, Loin Covers,
Oilskin Coats, Cab Aprons, Marquees (with or
without flooring and flags) for sale or hire.
JOHN BUCKHAM MELBOURNE.
Oldest established house in the trade. .
When ordering please mention this paper.] . Ala
Free 3Px*eadx*l;£>'£:iox]Ld
Are to be found in the “Light and Life,’
for the Speedy Cure of Nervous Debility and
Kindred Diseases, &c. A copy of this book will
be sent Free, sealed, for Six Penny Stamps.
Address —
S. WARD & 00., SYDNEY PHARMACY,
76 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
Huntington Hill.
Knowles’ Fimtiis.
PARKE & LACY CO.,
MIKING & HYDRAULIC ENGINEERS
AND
GENERAL MACHINERY MERCHANTS,
*o., &c., &c.
187 & 189 Clarence Street,
SYDKTEJY, 3XT.S.W.
And SAN FRANCISCO, CALIFORNIA.
C>j
Bock Breakers
I
Wesilnghonsc Engines.
8
9ffß~
HIGHLY NUTRITIVE
IVIAY HF IIHTAINtU IN LABELLED IINS OH PAHKFTS 1 HHOUHHOUTTHE CUIUNY.
/////. 1
mm
«
JUL
UNA
HAM
ampaq
Sole Agents:
HOWELL & JOSKE,
Wine and Spirit Merchants,
433 Bourke Street, Salisbury Buildings,
MELBOURNE,
■XT (V \Y READY. “A GOLDEN SHANTY.’
I rice, Is. All Agents and Booksellers.
J. E. Salier & Go.
IMPORTERS OP
€£as fittings,
LUMBERS & GAS FITTERS’ MATERIALS,
FLETCHER’S GAS COOKING STOVES
Of Various Patterns. J
119 Bathurst St., Sydney-
