

AITKEN’S ALE.
LIFE BUOY BRAND.
the kest in the marke;t.
“ DICKENS’ ” WHISKY.
Harrison & Attwood, 251 George-st., Sydney.
USED BY THE LATE CHARLES DICKENS,
AND SliTLIi;!) TO THE PRINCIPAL CLUBS IN SYDNEY.
Sole A.gexxts for Mew SoutH Wales,
ROBERTS’ HOTEL,
Is/Earfeet Street, S^XDZbTE^T.
UNRIVALLED ACCOMMODATION.
fdf
NEW YORE LIFE INSURANCE GO
M-
LIFE ASSURANCE ONLY. PURELY MUTUAL.
STATEMENT FOR YEAR ENDING 31st DECEMBER, 1889.
Income for year ending 1889,.. ... ... ... ... £6,000,672 1 3
Amount New Business during 1889 ... ... ... ... 31,094,463 0 0
Accumulated Funds 31st December, 1889... ... ... ... 21,615,967 5 5
Surplus by the New York State Standard ... ... .... 3,209,876 10 10
————> ——..,
Total Amount Paid to Living Members during last 45 years, in Endowments,
Dividends, &c. ... ... ... ... ... 16,317,633 0 0
Paid to Representatives of Deceased Members ... ... .... 10,296,348 0 0
Amount of Interest received on Investments ... ... ... 10 J ,878,708 0 0
Incontestable Non-Forfeiting Free Tontine Policies
Secures VALUABLE INVESTMENT FEATURES, in combination with INSURANCE at LOW COST. Guaranteed
options at the end of Tontine period.
The POLICIES, as now issued, are notably free prom restrictions as to Occupation, Residence and Travel; are
A INCONTESTABLE after Two Years, except in case of fraud.
CLAIMS are payable in the colonies at the nearest Branch Office, in sterling, and all Disputed Claims (in case any
should arise) in Australia are to be decided by Australian Courts.
Chief Offices, Department of Australasia: ... BOND STREET CHAMBERS, SYDNEY.
JOSIA.H 3£3EC>'^7^/ , '.lEbT »Ti, C3-eaa.®3raaA 3VX^.:rxgb.gre3f-
M
i
y
m
Grand Novelty ! Grand Novelty!
FOR MARKING
LINEN. PAPER, ENVELOPES, &c.
Special MoELograsns.
New System, more perfect than the Rubber. New
Invention. Prizes from the New Orleans (U.S.) and
Melbourne Exhibitions. Prices.— Medium Monograms,
with box and bottle of Indelible Ink for marking Linen,
Paper, Collars, Cuffs, and Handkerchiefs, Price 4/- in
Sydney, 4/6 in New South Wales, 5/- in other Colonies.
L. Shrager, 19 Macquarie-Place, Op. Exchange.
C. HOWARD
Howard’s Colonist 3-Fnrrow lagging
Plough.—(B.Z.O.C)
Howard’s Single-Furrow IMgglug
I’longli.—(O.JL.)
Tile Plougb. or tll.O TIinKXOS I
PLOUGHING AND HARROWING IN ONE ACT.
Share Points only cost 6d., and are Reversible.
Chaff-Cutters, Horse Gears and every kind of Agricultural Implements
IlsT STOCK.
B®'"’ Enquirers please quote this paper.
280 a "PITT STREET, SYDNEY
(Corner op Pitt and Bathurst Streets).
TIE-TIE—
LONDON & SYDNEY TEA COMPANY,
Kent j street, SYDNEY.
HIGH-CLASS TEAS,
Packed in 201 b. and 401 b. Packages,
At ts. 6d., Is. 9cl. and 2s. per Lb.
N.
k
New Customers please enclose Remittance or
Reference.
Speciality: A Single Package at Wholesale’ Price.
vr OTTR BIENDER AT WORK ON INDIA AND CHINA.*
The Bulletin
VoL 11—No. 543,]
[Saturday, July 12, 1890.


TOBACCO
511
r
IIMM
m
i
:*s?
DIXSON^SONS
Customs Seturns.
American £>eaf.
Dixson and Sons consumed in 1888, 52,592 lbs
more, and m 1889 (over 44 tons) 98,939 lbs. more
American Leaf than all the rest of New South
\V ales put together.
DIXSON’S TOBACCOS having the largest
sale of any in Australia are
O liSi
o
SIRROCER
Dr. RIDGE’S
FOOD
FOE INFANTS AND INVALIDS
“This is the MOST PERFECT FOOD
we have examined.”— Chas. H. Pxesse,
M.R.C.S., F.C.S., &c. Wm. Johnstone,
Ph.D., F.C.S., &c., Public Analysts.
DR. RIDGE’S ROYAL FOOD MILLS.
LONDON, ENGLAND.
9 a
m
AUCTIONEERS & ESTATE AGENTS IMi
SO
•-J a
bailee & CO.,
General Auctioneers and Estate AoEkts,
325 Collins Street, Melbourne, and 14 Chape;
Street, South Yarra.
ATKINSON’S
ENGLISH PERFUMERY
surpasses all others for its natural
fragrance.
Atkinson’S Renowns*
English Lavender Water
and other Well-known Perfumes are
unequalled tot their delightful and
lasting odour.
ATKINSON’S
ORIENTAL TOOTH PASTE,
Unrivrflled tor cleansing, beautifying
and preserving the Teeth and Gums.
Of all Dealers, and of the Manufacturers—
J. & E, ATKINSON,
24, OLD BOND STREET, LONDON.
Trade Mark —“ White Roso“on“Golden
With Address in full.
GOLDEN SHANTY
PRICE ; ONE SHILLING.
w X Li n. IA JMC s *
AUSTRALIAN YEAST POWDER
IS THE ONLY PERFECT SUBSTITUTE FOR YEAST.
: y
Bread, Tea Cakes, Pastry, &c.,
ARK
Light, Wholesome and Digestible——
WHEN MADE WITH
Williams* Australian Yeast Powder.
FOR THE TOWN, THE BUSH, AND THE SEA.
Beware of Worthless Imitations. Sold in Tins at 6d-. the Half-Pound
CLARENBONttOTEL7MANLY7
The Brighton of New South Wales.
AT the CLARENDON HOTEL, Banquets, Suppers, Private Dinners, Evening Parties, etc., are
served on the Shortest Notice in the Large Dining Hall. Besides having a most recherche
Dinner, you can enjoy from the balconies the magnificent .view of the sea and surrounding country;
here also you can have good company, good Wittes—ih fact, everything that can possibly make one
comfortable can be found at this really first-class hotel. Fishing and Picnic Parties provided. Table
de Hote at One o’clock daily and -Sundays. No expense is spared by Mrs. Kilminster to make her
\ isitors comfortable and her Hotel the best in the colony.
•3Es-JLX«-IIMEI : 3XrS‘ - JL - Ai«±-t, Claren.c3.on TT f
Opposite OCEAN BEACH, MANLY.
Jj]DWIN G, SOEETZ,
Stock and Share Broker,
fiitaitcial
BRISBANE.
Member of the Brisbane Stock Exchange,
~
THOMAS MCREERY:
MEDICAL HERBALIST,
83 Oxford Street, i doors above Riley Street.
Private Diseases of Both Sexes a Speciality.
Consultations Gratis. Charges very Moderate.
A Trial Solicited.
A SPEEDY CURE GUARANTEED.
History of botany bay.
PRICE : ONE SHILLING.
68 Hunter Street, and 8 Bligh Street,
SYDNEY.
F. SHBOEDEE
LIVERY, BAIT, LET-OUT AND COMMIS-
SION STABLES.
Horses and Vehicles of every description for
Sale or Hire; also, good reliable Ladies or Gentle,
men’s Hacks.
THE BALLABAT COFFEE PALACE,
Lydiard Street, Ballarat.
VISITORS to the Golden City will find every
convenience at the above Establishment:
The Only Coffee Palace in Ballarat.
MODERATE CHARGES.
H.EID & SONS Proprietors.
GOLDEN SHANTY,
PRICE : ONE SHILLING.
dfd
LARMER’S
CELEBRATED
TONIC
CURES
Nervous Debility,
Sick Headache
Bilious Complaints
Fever and Ague,
Sleeplessness,
Liver and Blood.
THE TONIC OF THE AGE!
This being one of the best Restoratives vet
offered to the Public in the form of a Tonic.
Warranted to Build up the Constitution,
at the same time acts as a Strengthening
Restorative in all cases.
BOTTLES at 2s. 6d. and ss.
Post, la Extra.
Prepared only by—
CAINS & CO., Chemists,
78 KING- ST., SYDNEY.
u w _ * or Sale by nil Chemists.
HUNGARIAN
NATURAL APERIENT WATER,
For Constipation, Indigeotloi
fdf
A*»
AU>
OF ALL CHEMISTS IN AUSTRALASIA
The Natural Mineral Waters of
(STATE
dfd
stums.)
GRANDE-GRILLE. —For Affections of tha
Liver, Biliary Organs, Ac.
CELESTINS.— For the Kidneys, Gravel, Goat
Rheumatism, Diabetes, Ac.
HOPITJLL. —For Stomach Complaints.
HAUTERIVE. —An excellent Table Watu.
CF ALL CHEMISTS IN AUSTRALASIA.
fd
fd
Purchasers should see that the Label on every bottle of the original
WORCESTERSHIRE SAUCE
bears the Signature, thus
Ask for Lea & Perrins’ Sauce, and see Name on Wrapper, Label, Bottle and Stopper.
Wholesale and for Export In/ the Proprietors, Worcester; Crosse Blackwell, London, sc., so.;
and by Grocers and Oilmen throughout the World .
■Everyone should Read
HISTORY of BOTANY BAY
_ 9
yy
By ARTHUR GAYLL
Profusely Illustrated by “ The Bulletin’s” well-known Artists, L. Hopkins and Phil May.
Price
ONE SHILLING; per Post, Is. 3d
A a\T K/1 1-wi.rl A 1 . T
]3e llacl from Agents, or direct from “'The Bulletin” Office.
-Agents - Victorian: A. Beniamin, 321 Little Collins Stmot INct iVTrdi m .


Medical.
Li
AYEE’S PIPES are unsurpassed as a
remedy for constipation, 11111011811688, sick-head-
aclio, dyspepsia, jaundice, and the common
derangements of stomach, liver, and bowels.
They break up colds, mitigate fevers, relieve
e-out, rheumatism, and neuralgia, cleanse the
system of malarial poison,, and assist in the
formation of pure, rich blood. These well-
known pills arc compounded of the essential
virtues of the best vegetable cathartics, and
contain neither calomel nor any other deleteri-
ous drug. They may, therefore, ho adminis-
tered in all cases where a purgative is needed,
without fear of ill effects. Being sugar-coated,
they are pleasant to take, and their medicinal
strength is preserved for an indefinite period
and in any climate. They should be in every
domestic medicine chest and traveller’s satchel.
r ? s Pi
s
Dr. J. C. AYER k GO., Lowe!!, FJlass., U. S. A.
Sold by Druggists and Medicine Vendors.
fd
WHO IS
WEAK
fdf
Nervous & Debilitated
Who in his youth has trifled away his vigour of body.
mind, and manhood, should consult PROFESSOR
CARL STINEWAY, the Eminent Specialist,
in diseases of the Genito-Urinary Organs, who is
still treating with the greatest skill and success all
Private, Nervous and Chronic Diseases.
Professor STINE WAY'S success, which has
become so firmly established throughout Australasia,
is based upon the facts ist. That every case treated,
even in its most remote effects, is specially studied,
thus starting aright. 2nd. The Medicines used are
exactly adapted to suit the case, and are compounded
from the purest, freshest, and refined ingredients,
thus promptly producing results without overdosing
or injury.
I seek cases where all else has failed.
Young and middle-aged men and others, who
suffer from Nervous and Physical Debility,
Exhausted Vitality, Premature Decline, etc.,
can recover the same degree of health, strength,
and energy experienced in former years, by
consulting (in person or by letter, which is
free), Professor STINE WAYwho has re-
stored thousands of sufferers to vigorous man-
hood after all other treatment had failed. It
makes no difference what yon have taken, or
who has failed to cure you. Cases that I accept
for treatment are quickly and permanently
cured.
DO ANY OF THE FOLLOWING SYMPTOMS,
OR CLASS OF SYMPTOMS MEET YOUR
DISEASED CONDITION :-Are you a sufferer
from bad health in any of its many forms, consequent
on a lingering Nervous, Chronic, or Functional
Disease ? Do you feel nervous, debilitated, fretful,
timid, and lack the power of will and action ?
Are you subject to loss of memory ; have spells of
fainting; fullness of blood in the head; feel listless,
moping, unfit for business or pleasure, and subject to
fits of melancholy? Are your kidneys, stomach,
urinary organs, liver, or blood in a disordered con-
dition ? Do you suffer from Rheumatism, Neuralgia,
or other aches and pains? Are you timid, nervous,
and forgetful with your mind continually dwelling on
the subject ? Have you lost confidence in yourself,
and energy for business pursuits ? Are you subject
to restless nights, broken sleep, dreams, palpitation
of the heart, bashfulness, confusion of ideas, aversion
to society, dizziness in the head, dimness of sight,
pimples on the face and back, and other desponding
symptoms? If you are afflicted, why further neglect
your health or future happiness, when by a single con-
sultation (which costs nothing) you can be placed on
the way to health, strength, and vigour?
All correspondence held sacred. A speedy
and perfect life cure is guaranteed in all cases
I undertake, where doubt exists the sufferer is
frankly informed.
Persons living at a distance who desire
treatment without delay can, by forwarding a
full description of their case and f\, receive
by return of post the medicines required.
Do not despair, even though all others have
failed in your case. No matter what your
complaint may be, call or write —/ will cure
you. If you are ill, do not delay IMy vast
experience enables me to guarantee a positive
cure in all cases undertaken. CONSUL-
-2A TIOA T S FREE. Medicines sent secure
from observation to any part of Australasia.
“From Bondage to Freedom,” my
latest work on Private, Nervous and
Chronic Diseases, should be read by
every man ; nearly one hundred
pages. By post, two stamps.
A written guarantee given in all
eases undertaken, and no promises
made that age. integrity, and long-
experience do not justify.
Send for treatise “From Bondage
to Freedom.”
Address: Professor CARL STINEWAY,
23 Elizabeth St., Sydney, N.S.W.
Offices and Parlors —Rooms 2,3, 4 & 5.
Consulting Room —6.
Laboratory & Drug Warehouse —
Hunter Sired.
Something IXTew.
YOUR NAME neatly printed on Forty (40) Beautiful
Embossed VISITING CARDS, comprising Floral
Landscape, Sea View, Bird, &c. No two alike. ALL
FOR ONE SHILLING in Stamps, postage paid. Agents
wanted. Samples free. Address —
Austral 4'artS uni) Novelty Co.,
if lU.vrai Stkcet, SYDNEY.
Business Announcements.
r
r
tf&tßTs
□
&
A NTS
ER
iRoNM
Q
a
C 3
d
■
mm
*B
i! OBE R T S
-WHOLESALE-
Ironmongers* lron and Machinery Merchants^
HAY AND E W G- 1 W E STREETS SYOW E Y,
Hcatl Office: 85 Gracecliurcli Street, London, E.C.
IMPORTERS OF
Railway & Bridge Contractors’
Plumbers’
Squatters’
Requirements
IN
Great Variety.
IMPORTERS OF
Engineers’ and Blacksmiths’
Conchbuilders’
Mining
AGENTS FOR;
Korting’s Gas Engines— The best and cheapest yet made. Automatic self-governing, thus saving cost of gas.
Braddock’s Water and Gas Meters and Gas Lamps. Reading Iron Works Universal (Split) Pulley Wheels.
Howe’s Platform and Counter Weighing Machines and Weighbridges.
df
THE
O'
OSHIII'IBj
mlllliii
in
pniiniii*
•SIIIIIIIIJ
Klltlltllsg
llllllllli'*
&
I HI
m
df
df
m
Y
rr\
iliL Vw
/v ''
d
68
CLARENCE S*
SYDNEY.
AGENTS
in New South Wales.
T RIU M PH
ofThe Good 5 pirit over Rad.
Used in hospitals throughout the world in preference to the
best French Brandy. TRY IT.
p e.INCE OF WALES’ HOTEL,
S-t. KilcLa,, Victoria.
Within Five Minutes from STATION, and One Minute from ESPLANADE and BATHS.
MIIS. KONG MEXG ... ... - Proprietress.
%
i
BUGGIES, CARRIAGES,
WAGGONS,
HARNESS, etc.
Machinery of all kinds.
WILLIAM FLEMING-,
1313 & 131 Clarence Street,
SYDNEY;
anil at 2 St. James’ Building
MELBOURNE.
Business Announcements.
MASON BROTHERS,
•s*
f !■ BBS
(1,5
;;
LIMITED.
263 to 269 KENT STREET,
SYDNEY,
Have always in Stock for Sale to the
Trade and Wholesale Buyers Only ,
Ironmongery, ami
GENERAL HARDWARE
Glass, China ami
EARTHENWARE.
WINKS. BEERS <fc SPIRITS,
and general
BULK MERCHANDISE.
Agents tor
JOHN WALKER and SONS
Old Highland Whisky.
LUCIEN FOUCAULD & CO.’S
Old Brandies.
J. T. GAYEN’S,
Schnapps and Geneva.
A. MELVIN and SON S’
Edinburgh Bale Ale.
SEND TO
kiixt o,
SCENIC and PORTRAIT PHOTOGRAPHER,
316 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
- FOR
Catalogue of the most Complete Series of Hews to
be obtained in Australia.
Jenolan Caves, Hawkesbury and Nepean Rivers,
Blue Mountains, Harbour and Coast Views,
Victorian and New Zealand Views.
Groups of Australian Aboriginals and South Sea
Island Natives, &c., &c.
Gr, H, SMITH & SON,
MANUFACTURERS ft IMPORTERS OP
JI7I fIfJD 0?£ P 3,
302 George Street, Sydney,
8 Doors South ol Hunter Street.
m
A L&rgo Assort
aicnt of English and
French Goods, from
the best Makers to
choose from.
Every description
of HATS and GAPS
made to Order.
Medical.
S
i'i h/
f/...
§Si^<
’v‘ v»-
T O YOXJWG- TVEiES^KT.
DR. FLETCHER’S
TREATISE ON NERVOUS DISEASES, THEIR CAUSE,
SYMPTOMS' TREATMENT, AND CURE. :
rrHE directions contained in this little treatise will be
* found of immense benefit to (he sufferer; and if these
directions are observed during the early stages of Nervous
or Sexual Debility, A'o Medicines will he required , as, by
observing the directions given, the patientcan Cure Him-
self.
This admirable little treatise is specially written to
show a method of counteracting the evil effects of indis-
cretions in early life—overwork, irregularity in eating or
drinking, &c. It is the result Of much study and long
and successful experience in the treatment of diseases,
and contains a fund of useful information to every suf-
ferer from the following complaints, viz. (—Nervous
Debility, Dizziness, Specks before the Eyes, Pains in the
Back, Defective Memory, Loss of Will Power*, Loss of
Energy, Spermatorrhoea, Bashfulness, Discontentedness,
Constipation, Liver and Kidney Derangements, Atrophy,
Impotence, Impure Blood, Foul Taste in Mouth, Palpita-
tion of Heart, Wakefulness, Despondency, Excessive Ner-
vousness, Inability to Marry, Premature Decay, and other
symptoms experienced by nervous sufferers.
All Should Send for this Little Treatise.
If the complaint is of long standing and require?
medicine, Dr. Fletcher will GUARANTEE TO CURE
ANY CASE OF NERVOUS or SEXUAL DEBILITY
with ONE COURSE OF MEDICINES LASTING FIVE
WEEKS, and will send with medicines A WRITTEN
GUARANTEE to cure same or return the monies paid.
Dr. Fletcher’s treatment is both simple and effective,
and within the reach of the poorest. It is unlike any
other, and with it he has cured over 25,000 patients, and
invites patients to investigate his statements by verifying
the testimonials published in his treatise. The treatise
will be forwarded on receipt of two stamps to cover
postage.
CONSULTATION BY LETTER, FREE.
Address in first instance—
DR. H. EWART FLETCHER.
Box 1417, G.P.O.
Sydney, N.S.W.
Private address—Clonmel House, Waverley, Sydney.
Remember, all cases undertaken, guaranteed, and a
signed agreement given, which provides that NO COST
be incurred liy the patient if a cure is not effected.
VARICOCELE RADICALLY CURED WITHOUT
.OPERATION.
Mention this Paper.
VW IN THE PRESS.
“.A. GOLDEN SHANTY/ 5
EV “BULLETIN" WRITERS.


r— ■
EP
A pleasantly-situated Property, thoroughly cleared, close to Liverpool Station. Torrens’ Title. £1 deposit; 10s, per month.
- A -- ~ w ~- STEPHEN, 28 CASTLEEEACxH: STREET, STDISTEY.
J&. CrOMen s£3 A Selection from the brightest of the original literary matter which has made The Bulletin world-famous. Price, Is. : posted, 3d. extra.
The Australian Mercantile Loan and
Guarantee Go. (Limited).
Hkad Office :
COUNEII MARKET and PITT STREETS
SYDNEY.
Melbourne—2B3 Collins-street East.
Brisbane—Corner Edward and Elizabeth Streets.
Newcastle - 37 Hunter-street.
SPECIAL NOTICE.
r I ’ic London Offices of the Company are now
open for the transaction of business, situate at
Inu. 110 Canon Street, E.C.
The Company grant immediate advances upon
approved securities, for fixed terms, or repayable
t y instalments.
Interest Allowed on Deposits:
3 months ... G per cent.
« » 7 „
12 „ 8
A. MILLER ... General Manager.
-THE—
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL
FIRE
Insurance Society.
Established ... ... 1872.
Bonuses
OF
20 per cent. Paid Annually
since 1873.
.
Head Office
-THE
Oldest Mutual Fire Office
in Australia.
Claims promptly and liberally
settled. Fifteen days’ g'race
allowed for Renewal of Policies.
Lowest Current Rates charged.
Hon. George Thornton, M.L.C.,
Chairman.
Head Office:
Corner Pitt Sc King Streets,
SYDNEY.
Walter Church
Manager.
THE
Australian Banking Company ,
LIMITED.
PITT ami MARKET STREETS, SYDNEY,
Incorporated under the Companies Act, 187 k.
Authorised Capital, £500,000, in 100,000 Shares of £5 each.
Subscribed Capital, £150,000-; Paid-up, 100,000.
FRANCIS ABIGAIL, M.L.A.,
Chairman of the Board of Directors.
A Branch of the Bank has been opened at Goulburn
under the management of C. 11. Atkinson, Esq. (lately
Branch Manager of the Bank of New South Wales) for the
transaction of General Banking Business.
The Bank has paid its Shareholders a dividend of 10 per-
cent. every half-year since its formation.
The Bank transacts all usual banking business in every
particular.
Special advantages granted to Commercial Clients.
Overdrafts granted against deposit of Deeds.
THE HIGHEST RATES OF INTEREST GIVEN FOR
FIXED DEPOSITS.
The Share Register is now open for the allotment of
Shares—New Issue.
By order of the Board of Directors.
RODERICK M'NAMARA, Manager.
Founs of application for Shares may be obtained at the
Bank.
F. LASSETTER
AND
fd
LIMITED
The BEST, CHEAPEST and LARGEST HARDWARE HORSE in the World.
fd
Steel Bronzed,
3-light,
Pride ... 17/6
vf ,
Steel "Bronzed,
2.-light,
Price ... 15/-
fdf
Other D eigns
in 3 light
at
25/- 35/- 50/- 03/-
5-light,
40/- GO/- 70/-
A splendid
assortment on
view in onr
Show - rooms.
Squad Arms, with rosettes.
2-Light, 16/6 ... ... 3-Light, 20/-
iL-
m
tss
hi
m
m
E
Bp
i
a
*
SS«S»
"x'lie HXTew Tile Fireplace.
MARBLE MANTEL in WHITE, RED or ST. ANN’S .... . £7 73. each.
TILE FRONT (as shown), £5 12s. 6d. ; INTERIOR GRATE, £2 fg.
Other designs of Tile Fronts at 705., 80s. and 100 s. each.
Hall Lights.
Steel
Bronzed,
Coloured
PancB,
7in. square,
HALL
LIGHT,
Price,
10/6 each.
Other
Designs
at
,15/- 21/-
30/- 40/-
df
Best and
Largest
Stock
of
Chandelier!
in the
Colonies.
Gasal ie r ■
Brackets,
Lamps,
Regi s t e i
Grates.
Heating
Stoves,
Coal
Vases,
Fenders,
Fire
Brasses,
&0.,&c.
Particulars and Illustrations (post
free) on application.
fIITY MUTUAL FIRE INSURANCE
COMPANY, Li ru
Established JW',
Subscribed Capital £150,000.
Head Offices removed to
95 PITT STREET, SYDNEY-
(It doers below Hunter Street.)
A Cash Bonus of 10 per cent, is paid to Policyholders
on renewals every year. Insurances covering Loss by Fire,
Lightning or Gas Explosion at Lowest Rates.
Note the Address—
NEW OFFICES, 95 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
(4 doors below Hunter Street.)
N.B.—The Bonus paid is equal to that paid by any
Fire Company in Sydney.
ROBERT KERR, Manager.
Artoor Vitas,
The Great Life Remedy d- Tonic Invigorator,
IS the Best and Only Medicine which shows a
good result from the moment you take the
first dose. It acts on the blood like a charm, and
tones the internal secretions to healthy action,
restores strength to the stomach, and enables it to
perform its functions ; and for regulating the liver
and kidneys it has no equal. Price—4s. per
package. Also the Great Cure for Catarrh and
Influenza—the Arbor Vitae Oil, 2s. 6d. per
bottle. Sold by all Storekeepers and Druggists.
Sole Agents for New South Wales—
Dan SutlierlazidL & Co.
Wholesale and Retail Tobacconists,
84 King Street, Newtown, SYDNEY.
The LONDON & SYDNEY TEA COMPANY,
IMPORTERS OF HIGH-CLASS TEAS,
409 KENT STREET, SYD3XTEY.
Packed in 12, 20, and 40Tb Caddies
@ Is. Gd., Is. 9d., and 2s. per ib.
*
SSJ3,
"\\\\\
m
1
mm
Delivered free to any Railway Station
or Port in New South Wales,
“ No. John; no more Tea from you, I buy now from the London and Sydney Tea Company.”
READ THIS
Western Australia is a much richer colony than is
generally supposed as regards minerals, agriculture and
pastcralism. - Sir Samuel Griffith.
Professor Brown, of Victoria, who made a thorough
examination of the south-western portion of Western
Australia, states that not the other colonies only but
even the people of Western Australia evidently do not
know how much there is waiting for development. Ho
saw thousands of acres in contiguous blocks of fine choco-
late lands, light clay loams, and peatv soils. He thinks
the important features of the district are its grand climate
and regular rainfall.
‘‘History repeats itself,” and as surely as Sydney and
Melbourne have made lightning-like progress, so will
PERTH,'
the Capital of West Australia.
TEN POUND BUILDING SITES
at PERTH, WESTERN AUSTRALIA.
Large Allotments, Splendid Position, Good Land.
Only £1 deposit, easy terms ; discount for cash. Buyers
of five lots receive a free deed. Title (Torrens's) guaran-
teed to be indisputable.
Also, CITY LOTS, from £33 each,
on similarly easy terms.
Marked plans and pamphlets posted to any address on
application to
THE INTERCOLONIAL INVESTMENT
COMPANY, Limited,
96 Bathurst-street, Sydney,
W. J. DOUGLAS, Manager.
CITY & COUNTY
Investment, Land and Buildlner
am, , Company, Limited.
Authorised Capital, £100,006 ... Reserves and Uncalled Capital £37 000
Rates for Deposits: 12 months, 7 per cent.; C months, tU per cent.; at call, 5 per cent
TV . T _ „ „ Bonus to 12 months’ Depositors. ’ P
Directors: J. Garrard, M.P., Hon. J. H. Young, M.P./j. P. Walker, J.P., John C. Hammon.
J - D - Ward, Manager, 327 Pitt-street,
BANK.
3 2 7
PITT STREET,
SYDNEY.


The Bulletin
Vol 11—No. 543.
SATURDAY, JULY 12, 1890.
Price, 6d.
/GREIVfIEGAI RE rtEir n
WARRantF® To
Remove
IN^-STA^S
TWO YEARS’ HARD LABOUR.
NEWSPAPER-MAN: "PPerdon me, Mr. Eddy, but don' t you think thar you and the law have been a little hard upon our erring brother? We ate all liable to mistake*. You,
for example, actually behoved for a time in Mr. William Pullman/’


The Bulletin
The National Australian newspaper.
“Australia for the Australians.”
Proprietors t BULLETIN NEWSPAPER 00.,
Limited, 4
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
&.T 21 PITT-STREET, SYDNEY, NEW SOUTH WALES.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(payable in advance, only).
Per Annum, £lO 0
Half-yearly
Quarterly 0 6 6
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Macleod, Managing Director.
Literary Communications to be addressed to J. F.
Archibald.
The Editor will carefully read and acknowledge in the
‘ Correspondence ” column all contributions submitted
whether in the form of Political, Social, or other Articles,
Verse, Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in
length, or say 3000 words, are specially acceptable).
Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper-Clippings. All
communications will be regarded as strictly confidential.
“ The Bulletin" will return all unavailable MSS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we
desire those sending MSS. to distinctly understand that
we are not responsible for the preservation or transmission
of such MSS.
NOTICE.
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty Shillings
sterling—which you may pay by Post Office Order, One
Pound Note, or Stamps of any Australian colony—you
can have The Bulletin* posted regularly to you every week
for a year.
This offer is not open to residents of Sydney. In that
city The Bulletin is not delivered by mail, but is entirely
in the hands of our carriers, with whom we do not wish
to interfere.
&£ ißzzSetm .
SATURDAY, JULY 12, 1890.
The Law and the People.
Barrister Real’s promotion to the Supreme
Court Bench of Queensland is an incident
which in point of time and suggestiveness
merits attention from the Australian public
generally, and of would-be legal reformers in
particular. Last week a motion was tabled
in the New South Wales Legislative Assembly
affirming the necessity of simplifying legal
processes, and in the Legislative Council of
the same colony a Bill was introduced which
proposes to amalgamate the professions of
barrister and solicitor. Similar strainings
after legal changes are common .to all the
Australias, but although one or both arms of
the law develope heat in discussing the sub-
jects, the general body of the public are
apathetic in the matter. Simplification of
legal procedure is no doubt a step in the
right direction, but in the light of past ex-
perience it is impossible to say what the
value of a step so denominated will be. So
many codifications of law and so many sim-
plifications of its procedure have been made,
and law is still so uncertain and procedure
so vexatiously interminable that new pro-
posals on the old lines can arouse no en-
thusiasm. The amalgamation of the two
branches of the legal profession is also a
step in the right direction, but it is a
step of quite inappreciable public conse-
quence. When Mr. Lumley Hill placed his
Amalgamation Act on the Statute Book of
Queensland, there were a few who regarded
him as the Mirabeau and some who charged
him with being the Marat of a new legal
era, but others refrained from violent
language, knowing that a solicitor meta-
morphosed into a barrister and a barrister
metamorphosed into a solicitor would direct
the same bright steely eye at the coin of the
litigant, which, from time immemorial, has
been the terror of the seeker after justice.
Nevertheless, the amalgamation of the two
branches is, we repeat, desirable, because,
in the first place, the reform amounts to a
condemnation of the claim of one party to a
legal monopoly, and because, in the second
place, the widening of the ranks gives, or
may give, a person a better chance of obtain-
ing advocacy on somewhat less extortionate
terms.
# * *
But neither of these reforms meets public
requirements. Both together will not meet
them. Law will not be really simplified
until its procedure and the terms on which
its processes are couched are popularised.
This popularisation will not be effected by
putting a wig on a solicitor, or authorising a
barrister to appear in court for six-and-
eightpence. Popularisation can come only
from the people and through their way of
looking at the subject. Parliament is the
people’s, and in it they make laws. The courts
are the people’s, and through them under all
circumstanceslawsshouldbedispensed. There
should be no greater need for an abracadabra
in law-courts than there is in Parliament.
The qualifications admitted to be sufficient
to enable a man to appear as a voter
or as a legislator should be sufficient to
enable him to personally appear as an
advocate in a court of law to maintain prin-
ciples which he helped to embody in statutes.
One anomaly of the present state of things
is that a man who has been an effective
instrument in carrying a law on to the
Statute Book of his country may be turned
out of court as a person incompetent to indi-
cate what that particular law really means.
This anomaly shows that while law-making
has been popularised in Australia, law-inter-
preting has been left untouched. But both
should go together, and on the same social
and educational lines. Competency to make
laws comprehends competency to interpret
laws. And, as in Australian communities
any citizen may be a law-maker, so every
citizen possesses the inherent right to ex-
plain and expound law —to appear in a court
of . justice as advocate for any person who
may choose to employ him.
* * *
Why should this inherent right be denied?
Technically, indeed, it is not denied, but
practically it is. The door to law-making is
an open one ; the door to expounding law in
a court is only ajar, and the interstice is
made almost impassable by hosts of barren
puzzles. At one time in England a certain
number of dinners qualified for the office of
advocacy ; in Australia quite as indigestible
performances are obligatory preliminaries.
If a man should be requested by a
prisoner to tell the jury the plain story
of his life, the court will first demand to
know whether the man passed an examina-
tion in Greek and Roman history, and if he
secured requisite marks in algebra and in
working out the binomial theorem. In other
words, before he is allowed to show that he
is a good advocate—before he is permitted
to defend his brother-citizen in court—he
must show’ that he has gone deeply into
several things which are not of the slightest
consequence to anybody at the present day.
Henry Georoe argued that access to land
meant everything in human progress, but
more thought shows that access to land is
only one form of access to occupation.
Land locked up from use is. national waste ;
occupation shut off from use is waste also.
Land held by a monopoly for monopolistic
ends menaces the general welfare ; occupa-
tion, similarly restricted, is a similar menace.
Thus the field of legal advocacy, of medical
practice, or of any other State-acknowledged
trades-union, is on a level with the agricul-
tural or pastoral area, and free and open
access to the one is as imperatively demanded
by intelligent reform as it is by the other.
# * *
Courts must, of course, be able to insist
on having proceedings conducted in decent
order. When the throwing open of the Bar
is mentioned, barristers and judges loudly
declaim against the w’aste of time which
they declare would be inevitable under such
a system, owing to the ignorance, incompe-
tence, or other incapacity of such “ ama-
teur ” advocates as more generous rules
would license. But such declaration is un-
meaning. Advocates incapable or unsuited
to command the attention of judge and jury
would not appear before judge and jury, or
if they appeared once would not do it
again, for the very sufficient reason that no
one would employ them. The fittest only
would survive, as in other spheres. That is
the reply to the various arguments as to the
danger of inaugurating a system under which
one horse-thief might appear as counsel in
defence for another horse-thief. To protect
judge and jury from a waste of time, a re-
striction in the domain of advocacy is re-
quired, but restriction, employed to the
extent the legal profession at present em-
ploy it, is simply trades-unionism worked
into a tyranny.
* # #
For purposes of Court order and regularity,
proposing advocates should furnish testi-
monials or certificates as to a general know-
ledge of professional practices, and that
done, their access to legal employment
should be uninterrupted. Any further im-
pediment is of the same nature as the re-
strictions which have made access to land
almost impossible. But while the new poli-
tics favour the cutting away of the barriers
between the people and the land, legal
politicians appear to be growing more intent
on cutting away the chance of employment
in the legal profession from the people. In
the early days the Bar of Australia was
nearer the people than it is to-day. In the
various colonies a legal examination, or ex-
amination in purely legal matters, was all
that was required of a candidate for the
office of advocate. There was no question as
to where his legal knowledge was acquired
or the time he spent in picking it up. Mr.
Real passed his early manhood at the carpen-
ter’s bench. He carried his burden of tools
morning after morning in Ipswich, and
worked at his books night after night, and
when he was ready he applied for examina-
tion, and on answering the questions put,
passed into the advocates’ guild : now, all
honour to him, ho is on the bench of the
highest tribunal of the land. That form of
progress is now obstructed. Proficiency in
wholly irrelevant matters is demanded from
candidates. When Mr. Real entered the
profession one examination alone was re-
quired and no question was asked as to
where or how the candidate acquired his
knowledge. To-day, in Sydney or Mel-
bourne, Mr. Real would not be eligible for
examination for the Bar. Why ? Because
the legal guilds have grown strong since that
time, and as they grew strong they invented
plan after plan to keep the preserves to
themselves, and where they could not keep
them in one family they have laboured to keep
them in one clique. Whenever and wherever
reform in legal procedure is talked of the
public should make it clearly known that as
far as they are concerned, whatever the excite-
ment of the two arms of the law may be
over quoted reforms they await a proposal
which shall aim at the destruction of a
monopoly and give free access to an occupa-
tion which is to the general citizen at the
present time more inaccessible than city land.
For ourselves, so little value have the quali-
fications enjoined by recent Reyulce Generates
in our eyes, that were The Bulletin before
the Criminal Court to-morrow it would as
soon be defended before a jury by such men
as Parkes, or Garrett, or Macrossan, who,
under the present system, are denied legal
audience, as by the wearer of the amplest
wig conferred by order of the Full Court,
Disfranchising the Jury.
The judgment of the New South Wales Full
Court, sustaining the conviction for bigamy
of Doctor M'Leod, while holding that evidence
of the second marriage had been improperly ad-
mitted in the court below, places the administra-
tion of the criminal law in a wholly new and
unexpected light before the public. Hitherto it
has been supposed that a verdict of guilty would
be vitiated by the improper admission of evidence
relevant to the issue; the rule being that the
Crown is bound to prove the prisoner’s guilt by
unimpeachable testimony. If that doctrine had
been applied in the present case the verdict would
have been set aside, because there was no doubt
in the mind of the Court that the documentary
evidence produced to prove the second marriage
was inadmissible. The law now laid down is
that, because the marriage was sufficiently proved
by other means—principally by “ the deliberate
admissions made by the prisoner time after time
in documents under his hand”—the evidence
in question might be treated as mere surplusage,
and therefore no substantial wrong had been done
to the prisoner by admitting it. This decision was
arrived at by two of the learned Judges—the
Chief Justice and Mr. Justice Innes— in accord-
ance with a certain section in the New South
Wales Criminal Law Amendment Act, which
provides that a conviction shall not be quashed,
on technical objections to the evidence, unless
the Court can see that the prisoner has suffered
some substantial wrong by that means.
* * *
This view of the question was stoutly contested
by Mr. Justice Windeyer, who held that the im-
proper admission of such evidence as that before
them was clearly a substantial wrong, and that it
absolutely vitiated the verdict. His_ argument
was founded on the peculiar responsibilities of the
jury in criminal cases, as compared with their
functions in civil cases. “It is because the law
has made the jury and not the Court, the final and
sole tribunal in deciding as to facts in criminal
cases that the Court cannot consider whether the
evidence is sufficient to convict the prisoner.
What a Court might think sufficient evidence, a
jury might think insufficient, and thereupon
might give the prisoner the benefit of the
doubt ; and so long as the law vests in a
jury, and not in the Court, the final arbitrament
of the prisoner’s fate, so far as it depends upon
the findings of fact, the court has no power, and
no right to usurp to itself any power, of saying
what the verdict of a jury ought to be.” It cer-
tainly seems that in taking up that position the
learned judge opened the way to a sound con-
clusion on the whole case. The argument of the
Chief Justice was based on a critical examination
of the evidence; but what had the Court to do
with that ? It was purely a question for
the jury, whose functions the majority of
the Court have “ jumped ” by this decision.
It was not the province of the Court to ascertain
whether there was sufficient evidence, apart from
the particular evidence in dispute, to support a
verdict of guilty. That would have been a proper
function to discharge on an appeal, or a motion for
a new trial, in which the Court would necessarily
have been called upon to review all the facts ; but
here the only question lying before it was whether
certain evidence had been improperly admitted,
and if so, whether any substantial wrong had
been done in that way.
* * *
The conflict of opinion between the Chief-Justice
and Mr. Justice Windeyer on the question—
what did the Legislature intend by the words
“ substantial wrong ” ?—is very marked. Accord-
ing to the former, this provision in the Act en-
titles the Court to 6pen up the whole case in order
to see whether the prisoner has been rightly con-
victed ; and if it should come to the conclusion
that he has been, then it is entitled to say that no
wrong has been done by the improper admission
of evidence. Judge Windeyer sees no such
intention in the wording of the Act: —
The effect of the Court’s exercising the power of ulti-
mately deciding whether there is sufficient evidence to
sustain a conviction where inadmissible evidence is
allowed, is so great an innovation on the common law that
I should not feel myself at liberty to infer that the Legis-
lature intended it unless I saw clearly that the Legislature
had unmistakeably meant to transfer the ultimate power
of deciding as to the sufficiency of the facts from the jury
to the Court, and to give it the power of sustaining a con-
viction, though improper evidence went to the jury. I
can infer nothing of the kind from the language of this
section. I see no reason for supposing that the Legisla-
ture intended by it to break in upon the time-honoured
and most wise provision of the common law that a man
should only he convicted upon legal evidence. _ So far
from there being no substantial wrong or miscarriage of
justice in a verdict which is final being arrived at upon
inadmissable evidence, I think that it is the most grievous
wrong that a man accused of ■crime can suffer, considering
the nature of the tribunal before which such improper
evidence is brought. ... In my opinion a most
grievous wrong is done to the prisoner if his conviction
has been by any possibility based upon illegal evidence ;
and it seems to me impossible to say that the evidence to
prove the legality of the miscarriage, wrongly admitted,
did not affect the minds of the jury adversely to the
prisoner.
The great object which the Legislature had in
view in the provision referred to was to prevent
in future the quashing of convictions on frivolous
objections of tf technical character, commonly
know as quibbles ; but not to alter or reverse the
established practice of the courts in cases where
the objection taken was not frivolous, but substan-
tial. In the present case, it cannot be said that
the objection to the evidence in dispute was
frivolous —it was undoubtedly substantial. If the
Crown had not relied on the documents put in to
prove the second marriage, it would not have put
them in ; and having done so, it is a logical infer-
ence that it obtained a conviction by means, or
partly by means, of that evidence. As the law
now stands, the fact that evidence was wrongly
admitted will prove a matter of very little im-
portance, so long as the prisoner is convicted ;
because the Supreme Court will not quash a con-
viction if it can see, on an examination of the
whole body of evidence, that there was sufficient
to support it apart from the particular facts in
dispute. Such a question of procedure will, no
doubt, relieve the police and the Crown Prosecutor
of a great deal of trouble; but the prisoner will
stand in a very different position, under such cir-
cumstances, from that which he has hitherto
occupied. He will have to run the gauntlet, not
only in the court which tries him, but in the higher
one to which he may appeal on points of law.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Voice of Ferguson.
A memory of the past named Sir James Ferguson,
who was Governor of South Australia 20 years
ago, writes concerning the degradation and sin-
fulness of the marriage and divorce laws of this
country, and quotes the Deceased Wife’s Sister
Bill as an example of frightful colonial depravity: —
The measure was passed in opposition to the whole
religious convictions of the colony [South Australia] and
there is not at the present moment one clergymen of the
Church of England in that colony who would celebrate
these marriages. I do not think that shows that the
public opinion of the colony is in favour of the law.
Sixteen different things occur to us on glancing at
this item, but we have only space enough for four
of them. First: If all the religious sentiment of
the colony was against the Bill and yet it passed
by a majority, then either religious sentiment is
down very low, or Sir James Ferguson doesn’t
recognise it when he sees it. Most probably the
latter is the real explanation. The “whole reli-
gious sentiment ” is, we expect, simply the whole of
Ferguson’s sentiment, and the “ public opinion of
the colony ’’ is Ferguson himself. Religion is very
like politics in some respects. In both branches of
industry a “ right-thinking person ’ is a person who
thinks as Ferguson thinks, and an “independent
mind ” is the mind of the person who leaves the
other side and joins Ferguson, and a “ renegade”
is a person who leaves Ferguson and joins the
other side, and an “offensive bigot” is a person
who belongs to the other side and sticks to it.
Second: The Church of England is no more the
public opinion of the colony than is the associated
bottle-gathering industry, or the united bone-
crushing trade. Third: The fact that Ferguson
was in South Australia 20 years ago does not
necessarily qualify him as an exponent of public
opinion in that colony now. If Ferguson and
some prominent astronomer were distantly related
by marriage through the medium of some person
who was afterwards hanged, that relationship
wouldn’t, of necessity, qualify Ferguson to be
an authority on astronomy. Possibly Ferguson
may fail to trace the connection between these
two circumstances, but that is his look-out, not
ours. If Ferguson’s Creator did not furnish him
with understanding we can’t help it. Fourth:
What does Ferguson amount to anyhow ?
Shall Workmen Enter Parliament ?
Sydney Daily Telegraph boldly states that in
this “ country of manhood suffrage, of free educa-
tion, of trades-unionism, of payment of members,
and the secret ballot-box,” the “ direct represen-
tation of labour ” would be subversive to the
interests of the country, and “were it acted on
generally would make Parliament a collection of
class delegates and leave the country without a
single representative.” And further :
While the system of party government is maintained
the Parliament will be divided by political or personal
reasons into two camps. Asa rule, as far as the working
classes are concerned, they have just as much to expect
from one party as the other. Just now, for instance,
Protection and Freetrade divides the two parties, and the
working classes are similarly divided in opinion on the
same question. To which side, then, would the “labour
member” attach himself? If he joined either party he
would at once expose himself and the cause he represented
to the antagonism of the party he opposed, and if he
joined neither he would become a political pariah—with
no leader, no followers, no party, and no power.
Thus, the attempt of the workers, by means of the
ballot-box, to secure direct representation “by the
mere exercise of the overwhelming power they
possess ” (we quote from the D.T.) is to result in
the return of one “labour member,” who, ex-
cluded from both parties, is to become a “ political
pariah.” Now, if the power be overwhelming, what
hinders the worker from the return of 120 mem-
bers, instead of one—what is to prevent him
sweeping away all parties and placing the few
representatives of Capital in the position of
“ political pariahs?” The interests of the workers
are the true interests of any country; if
labour be intelligently and fully represented, then
the best interests of the country will be looked to ;
while, should a labour member stray in among the
present crowd of log-rolling, swindle-promoting,
treasury-mi Iking representatives of minorities, who
don’t vote for the general good, but for boodle,
either for themselves or the land agencies, mining-
syndicates, city-railway boomers who have floated
them in on a fleet of buggies riding on a tide of
beer, he will probably become corrupted and will
no more represent honest labour than does any
paper which clamours for the class representation
of such minorities as those of the brewers and
squatters and avowedly grudges the common
People, who are the country, a single member.
♦
A Hint to Australian Artists.
Frith’S “Railway Station,” a painting which
passed as high art among the good folks of 25
years ago, was sold at auction the other day for
300 guineas. It turned out not to be the original
—only a replica by Frith himself—but the price
was not much affected by that small distinction.
In the Melbou ne Gallery arc Long’s original
“Question of Propriety, ’ bought oil the ea-el in
the very early days of his celebrity, and the same
artist’s'replica of “ Esther. ” The replica cost six
times as much as the original work—£lßoo and
£BOO respectively. Say, then, that Frith’s
“ Railway Station a picture which was repro-
duced in stage scenes and raved about ad vauscam
—would now be worth £SOO. It has lost about 90
per cent, of its value in a quarter of a century,
because Frith sold it for £5250. Meanwhile many
unpretentious landscape paintings have increased
in value twentyfold. They represent things of
beauty for all time, while Frith deals in the ugly
realism of the passing hour. He has all
his life been painting hats, gowns, coats,
bonnets, and trousers which look hideously
stupid and out of date before the paint has lost
its first freshness. No poetry or passion can live
in such garments for more than 10 years. How
hopelessly idiotic seem all the characters in
Frith’s “Derby Day,” yet the time was when
they possessed life, intelligence and force. 1 hat
once renowned picture mirrored a little vulgar
human nature and a vast quantity of inherently
ludicrous raiment, and it kept in fashion, as a


work of art, just as long as the “togs ” did. Now the
thing is worth —well, a little more than Kahler’s
photographic picture of the “Lawn at Fleming-
ton,” because the old R.A. did attempt to point a
few humdrum morals in his wooden orgie of Epsom
Downs. Frith is still living, nor is he a very old
man either, and the awful spectacle of his decline
and fall should be a warning to young Aus-
tralian artists, who consider that the great
object of art is to reproduce what is in a
drawing-room at Toorak or Potts Point. Let
them understand that no amount of feeling for
colour, perfection of detail, or even “ strength ”
in drawing will bear to be associated with a bell-
topper hat, for more than 10 years—on canvas—
just as no tcn-year-old comedy could be acted in
the garments of its first night, without provoking
a storm of ridicule. Artists are slow to under
stand that their hope to find fame in any pre-
sentment of “idylls,” romances, or tragedies of
modern life, because such life is attired in a style
neither picturesque, grotesque, nor characteristic,
but simply ugly and stupid. The young colonial
school is developing a weakness for painting dirty,
uninteresting old men under gum-trees, and call-
ing them “Dead Beat,” or “(Jut of Luck,” or
something which is supposed to suggest local
colour. Or else, which is worse, they fix up a
female in choice new millinery and call her “An
Australian Girl,” little thinking what an object
she will look before she is thirty.
♦
“The Bulletin” and the Irish Question.
That “the dashing” Dan O’Connor, when writh-
ing under the sting of W. H. Traill’s charge
against him of having countenanced the employ-
ment of detectives to ferret out the names of
N.S.W. postal officials guilty of the crime of
writing letters to the press, should hit back
viciously at his assailant was natural enough.
The attack and the defence are nothing to us,
except so far as we feel an interest in the proceed-
Sngs of an old colleague. And, so far as Mr,
L’raill is concerned, an intimate association of
several years has satisfied us that he is quite com-
petent to take his own part and keep right end up
in any crusade he may undertake. But when Mr,
O’Connor, in retorting on Mr. Traill, asserts
that the policy pursued by The Bulletin with
respect to the Irish Question was adopted from
sordid motives, he is guilty of an impudent fabri-
cation. Mr. Traill had a large voice in the
decision as to what the attitude of The Bulletin
should be at the time when the Irish Question
first assumed an acute aspect in Australia in con-
sequence of the visit of the Redmonds. But he
hadn’t all the say, and The Bulletin of to-day
is in every sense entitled to take to itself the
credit as well as to sustain the responsibility for
the policy of The Bulletin of eight or ten years
ago. The Bulletin did not undertake to cham-
pion the Home Rule cause when the Redmonds
came to Australia and does not now give coun-
tenance to that cause “in order to make money
by it.” The circumstances speak for themselves.
The mere announcement that representatives of
the Irish Land League cause were coming to Aus-
tralia created a prodigious ferment, and on their
arrival they were treated like wild beasts. Every
considerable newspaper in the Australias spat
venom at the Redmonds. The Argus, the Age,
the S.M. Herald, the Sydney Daily Telegraph
and the E. News raved at them. The Phoenix
Park murders had just taken place, and the whole
body of Irish members were accused of complicity.
The entire public stood aghast. The Redmonds
found it difficult to hire a hall in Sydney in which
to hold a meeting. In the country towns they
more often failed to secure the ordinary halls than
they succeeded. In Sydney, even when they did
get a hall, they stood on the platform almost un-
supported by public men, even by those who had
till that time made capital out of ardent profes-
sions of sympathy with the Irish cause. At their
first meeting Mr. Redmond, M.P., bitterly com-
mented on this desertion in terms which may
possibly be still fresh in the memory of Mr.
Daniel O’Connor. It was at the height of this
furore against the Irish cause and its represen-
tatives that The Bulletin first undertook to cham-
pion the cause the Redmonds represented. The
most likely result, according to the then lights of
the proprietors, was that The Bulletin ' would
bring the storm then raging upon its own head,
that it would make enemies of an overwhelming
majority of the population, that it would suffer in
circulation and lose advertisements. But it was
determined at all risks not to stand by and permit
a Tory press to choke the voice of a latent but
living democracy, of which The Bulletin is
proud to have been the first mouthpiece. Here,
for instance, is a specimen of the sort of incite-
ment the daily press was publishing in issue after
issue to prejudice the people against the Irish
representatives;—
We have it on the authority of Carey, the informer,
that a portion of the funds of the late Land League were
used for the purposes of the ‘Mnner circle,” consisting of
a band of professional assassins acting- under the direction
of a mysterious “ Number One,” the arch-murderer. .
Mr. Redmond, Mr. Parnell, or any of the prominent per-
sonages who have taken part in the Land League agita-
tion, cannot get over this one hard fact that the band of
assassins, the perpetrators of nameless outrages, the bov-
cotters, are most assuredly associated with them. . '.
Mr. Redmond says the money (Land League funds) has
been satisfactorily accounted for. By whom ? With
some people it might he satisfactorily accounted for, even
it it were shown that it had been expended in encompass-
ing the murder of Lord Frederick Cavendish and Mr
Burke.
This is but an average specimen of the sort of
stuff winch hundreds of Australian journals were
foaming out, on the strength of a parcel of in.
ttammatory partizan cablegrams, when The Bul-
letin alone stood forth, clear away from any cur-
tain or other skulking-place, and showed the im-
probability of the charges, and dared to assert that
the cause the Redmonds advocated was a just and
honourable case. If that time were so obviously
a chance for The Bulletin to make profit, it was
just as good a chance for Mr. Dan O’Connor to
make political capital. What a pity for himself
he didn’t see it at the time !
• ♦- .
“ Betterment.' 5
It has gradually come to be a recognised fact that
the chief end and purpose of the Australian people
is to build railways through the land of every con-
spicuous politician, and pay him six times the real
value for the area resumed for railway purposes,
and then afford him every facility for trading off
he rest of the property for about ten times the
price which it would have realised before the line
wa„ constructed. A successful statesman in this
country is a statesman who has several pieces of
land with a railway through each of them, and a
man who has faded in public life is a man who
made night hideous with his vociferations, and
an t get his line after all. A sincere patriot is a
person who has tried to get some land but has
tailed m his efforts, and consequently has no
visible interest m any railway, but lives on com-
missions paid him for helping on the private jobs of
other members, and an offensive demagogue is this
same individual when he has been swindled out of
his commission. A faint, misty, indistinct legend
of Australian history tells that there once existed
a politician who did not want any public works
effected on his property at all, but he vanished
while young and has not since been heard
of. Under these circumstances, it has been
suggested that a great saving, both in money
and sinful lying and corruption, might be
effected by the application of the American law of
“betterment,” which provides that any person,
whose property has been enhanced in value by im-
provements effected with the national funds, shall
be_ required to hand over a considerable portion of
this extra value to pay for these improvements.
In other words, it is proposed that the clamorous
member who ceaselessly demands a direct line to
the empty township of Skunk’s Misery, or a har-
bour on Alligator Creek, merely because his barren
estate in that vicinity will thereby be ren-
dered worth £4OOO instead of £2OOO, as at
present, shall be disagreeably surprised by a
bill for, say, £IOOO, being 50 per cent, of
the profit which he realises at the expense
of the nation ; and when his brother landholders
are levied on to a similar extent, the chances are
that the improvement will be a comparatively in-
expensive affair, or else that the proprietors of the
district will decide that they don’t want it at all.
The measure would be, at the least, an instalment
of land-nationalisation, and it is an instalment
which could be quickly realised. In all reason
and justice the_ State has a right to the whole of
the profit accruing through the expenditure of the
State funds, but even the annexation of one-half
or two-thirds of these profits would be a step in
the right direction, and would immensely lessen
the burden of taxation upon that portion of the
community whose sole business at present is to
provide the funds and reap none of the benefit.
And, above all things, the member who possesses
the courage to introduce such a scheme into the
Legislature will thereby place the Land Nationali-
sation party on a firm basis, and compel its
friends and enemies to declare themselves.
Within the last few weeks the landlords
and land-grabbers of New South Wales
rallied enthusiastically round the Single-Tax
apostle and assured him that his sentiments were
theirs, but not one of them volunteered to national-
ise his own corner allotment in George-street,
Sydney, or to tax his big freehold estate beside
the harbour. The scheme was so large that every-
one felt blindly confident that it could not come
to pass in less time, and so they all hoorayed
enthusiastically for some dim, nebulous reform
that would be rough on the monopolists of the
twenty-fifth century, and announced themselves
as yearning for an era of justice and equality
which they hoped with a great enthusiastic hope
might arrive after they were dead. And, there-
fore, we would suggest the immediate adoption
on a liberal scale of the American law of “ better-
ment ” —a law of English origin, but long since
obsolete in that country—in order that at least a
portion of the advantages of land-nationalisation
may be realised in our time, and in the hope that
the benefits accruing may be so distinct as to
immensely hasten the period when land-
nationalisation, in its widest sense, may be fully
accomplished. At least one-half of the Freetrade-
landlord-cam-Single-Tax party are pursuing their
object under the cheerful conviction that they
will never overtake it—in other words, they simply
intend to drive the object in front of them and
make dead sure that it will keep ahead. Public
interest in such a chase is strictly limited. It is
related in Greek mythology that one of the for-
gotten gods of Paganism once constructed a mira-
culous fox which was endowed with the power of
keeping ahead of every animal which pursued it,
while another compounded a supernatural dog
which was blessed with the faculty of overtaking
any animal it started after. The two met one day
and commenced an everlasting race which was of
no earthly use to anybody except themselves. The
present Single-Tax party seems to consist of the
fox alone —the dog is conspicuously absent, and
therefore we would urgently suggest that it should
devote itself to securing a first instalment of the
great reform, and, having gained it, should then
resume its unremitting pursuit after the balance.
A Fatal Point.
Dear Bulletin, —The Victorian Courts having
decided that Colonel Templeton could not law-
fully prosecute a legal inquiry as to wbo
fooled away a hundred thousand pounds or so
belonging to the Premier Permanent share-
holders, the Crown has taken the matter up,
and Pueves is pounding along with fresb vigour.
Judge Holkoyd, however, is inclined to think
that it is no use, and that the £SOOO already spent
and the £IO,OOO or £15,000 which will be wanted
to finish the case will be all thrown away. It
seems that the charge was laid by Colonel
Templeton as liquidator of the Premier Society,
whereas it should have been laid by the Premier
Society through its liquidator, Colonel Templeton,
and this thrilling point of difference is liable to
blow the whole show kite-high. It is one of the
blessed privileges of British law that, when a man
has stolen £50,000 or so, he can’t be punished or
the money recovered if a Latin word is spelled
wrongly on the back of the indictment, and that
several hundred people who have been reduced to
beggary can get no redress because their statement
of claim was written on blue paper, whereas the BG7tb
clause of the Act for the promotion of Impenetrable
Confusion demands that white paper should be
used, with a broad margin. If the law demands
that a man should walk ten miles for any purpose
it would be impossible to enforce the said law
because Parliament hadn’t declared whether he
was to cut his toe-nails before starting, and some-
where about £300,000 is wasted annually in Aus-
tralia in the effort to decide whether the defendant
Comes “ within the meaning of the Act,” it being
the joyous privilege of the Act never to mean what
any white man of sane mind who knows tbe first
four letters of the alphabet could reasonably expect
it to mean, and always to mean something that
Solomon and Confucius and the Seven Wise Men
of Greece put together would never dream of even
if they studied it till they were hungry and naked
and blind and mad and bald-headed as well.
Therefore, what we rise to suggest is that some-
body should bring in a Bill providing that
when any point arises which isn’t provided
for by law, the judge should fall back on
his own common sense, if he has any,
and that it should be laid down distinctly
that the country wants brains—not precedents.
Also that when a hideously abstruse technical
point is raised to show that some gigantic fraud or
alleged fraud should be smothered becausea comma
is turned upside down, or something of the sort
it shall be competent for the court to hand down a
decision that it doesn’t matter a hang, and that it
should do this, not on account of the 1837th sub-
jection of the Act for the Extension of Softening
of the Brain, but for the simple reason that no
technical point ever raised had the slightest bear-
ing on the justice or injustice of the case. More-
over, technical points are almost exclusively the
luxury of the rich, for the lawyer who has a genius
for hunting them out is invariably too expensive a
person for a poor man to employ, and the latter
has to fall back on some cheap legal authority
who possesses only some general ideas about
common justice, which article is of no more use in
court than a goat would be on the bench. Very
few _ people ever heard of an alleged murderer
getting off on a technicality, for alleged murderers
are generally persons in low circumstances; and
yet the law merely says that a man committing a
murder shall be hanged, and when a murder is
committed by a person with a wooden leg, this
individual—being only part of a man—isn’t covered
by the statute, which applies exclusively to the
whole or complete individual. This point is worth
looking into the next time an assassin with a tim-
ber extremity comes along. It is a darned poor
technicality which won’t serve the poor as well as
the rich. —Yours, ‘ ‘ Had. ”
♦
Still Watching' the Crown.
The Victorian Government, at length left without
any room for dodging a great public duty, has
sulkily taken over the Premier Building Associa-
tion prosecutions from Colonel Templeton, that
indomitable liquidator’s supplies having been
temporarily cut off by an injunction, obtained at
the suit of one solitary individual whose move was
not, in the opinion of the restraining judge, taken
in the interests of the Association. An article in
last week’s Bulletin, while pointing out that the
Crown’s intervention was inevitable, although a
portion of that influential entity “would give its
left hand to see the P.B. A. prosecution squelched,”
bluntly intimated that there was a fear of it not
going “straight.” The Bulletin then gave bold
expression to an almost universal suspicion, which
subsequent developments have not dispelled. A
published correspondence between Colonel Temple-
ton and the Crown Law Department contains at
least one startling piece of information. In reply
to an ungracious offer of assistance that could no
longer be withheld, the liquidator wrote :
I may be permitted to say that, in the case of Doherty,
my legal advisers succeeded in getting him committed
upon the name evidence which I had previously submitted
to the officers deputed by the Crown Solicitor to make
enquiries, and who, I am informed and believe, reported
that a strong prima facie case had been disclosed to
them. This result was undoubtedly rendered more diffi-
cult from the fact that it was known that the Crown had
abandoned the prosecution after an information had been
sworn and a warrant issued for Doherty’s arrest.
Notwithstanding that Attorney-General Wrixon
met this nasty jar with a quibble, the fact remains
that the Crown having obtained a warrant for
Doherty’s arrest, subsequently found reasons for
concealing the unpleasant document in its official
boot. In short, the Crown’s policy was apparently
to take any prosecution out of Colonel Templeton’s
hands—and lose it. The accident of a determined,
aggressive, unsquareable man being in a position
to prosecute, in the name of the P.B. A., despite
unprecedented opposition from a Ministerial
organ, has resulted in the Crown stand-
ing convicted of having tried to shirk
what is now acknowledged to be a duty. To no
purpose does the Attorney-General insinuate that
the defendants couldn’t afford to have proceedings
stayed at the present stage, and that the Crown
must therefore go on from where the liquidator
left off. If Templeton had not already shown
good cause why the Crown should have been doing
his work from the first, the defendants might have
walked out of court, amidst public congratulations,
like martyrs unexpectedly released from the stake.
Everybody knows that the Crown is bubbling over
with sympathy for at least one of the defendants,
because the chief Minister has recorded his senti-
ments in print. But that isn’t why the Crown
continues the prosecution of its own friends and
acquaintances. The Crown would not willingly
dissemble its love for a crowd of unfortunate
“representative” persons by engaging Purves
to swear at them. No, the continuance of
the present prosecution has been forced upon
Her Majesty’s Government in Victoria by the
public, and the public are now wondering what
they ought to do in the possible event of some or
all of the defendants getting committed for trial,
and the Croivn declining to try ’em. A feeble kind
of personage, looking rather ashamed of himself,
addressed the Melbourne City Court the other
morning on behalf of Mr. Righteous Wrixon. The
statement of this secretive, unsatisfactory luminary
—rumoured to be an unknown quantity of a Crown
Solicitor, or something similar—was to the effect
that the Crown would rather not say what it
thought of the case, but if there was a committal
the Crown would consider all about things de
novo. Which was equivalent to saying that the
Crown reserves to itself the right of dropping the
prosecution at the moment it may be most neces-
sary, in the interests of justice and public morality,
to push it forward. The public has not forgotten
the “dropping of the warrant.”
The utterly unnecessary and unheard-of harshness
of the sentence imposed upon Rbseigh Martin
for libelling Commissioner Eddy, is accentuated
by the fact that the latter had an effectual civil
remedy against the defendant. Suppose a verdict
for damages had been given against Martin in a
civil court, he would have had to pay the verdict
and costs, or, in default, go to the debtors’ prison
for at least twelve months ; any curtailment of
the period would have been at the option alone of
Commissioner Eddy. If society is to degrade a
man who has up to the age of forty-five years
lived honourably, by branding him with the broad
arrow and sending him to labour with felons for
the legal maximum of two years, on account of an
offence which, as above indicated, could have been
punished with great severity in another way, with
what vengeance does it propose to visit the man
who falsely accuses another of unmentionable
crimes, or who, to gratify his revenge, falsely and
circumstantially impugns the honour of a woman ?
The more the penalty imposed upon Martin is
considered, the more outrageous and unreasonable
does it appear. New South Wales is the land of
hysterical sentences.
*
It is now submitted by a Sydney daily to the
public that Martin has no claim on public
sympathy, inasmuch as the jury who convicted
him were specifically directed by the judge that
they should only find him guilty of having
criminally libelled Commissioner Eddy, if they
believed that he wrote the libels knowing them to
be quite untrue. Judges tell juries a whole lot of
things, but juries have not legally-trained minds,
and so give general verdicts unless pinned down
to return specific answers in writing. A juryman
informs The Bulletin that he at any rate (and,
he believes, the rest of the jury likewise) was of
opinion that Martin may have thought he was
writing the truth, but didn’t take enough trouble
to verify the stories he had heard about the Com-
missioner. One thing is absolutely certain ; the
jury did not mentally find Martin guilty to the
extent of two years’ gaol in the company of
chronic thieves and men who have committed
unnatural offences. They considered, and the
public consider, his offence to have been, not that
he did not believe what he was writing to be true,
but that he was altogether too cocksure about its
truth.
Dbah Bulletin, —I am an old miner of 30 years’
Australian standing and want you to print for me
some remarks about the prospecting-vote granted
by the New South Wales Government. 1 think
that when this money was voted by Parliament, it
was meant to assist the working miner, but the
latter gets very little of it about this district (1
suppose it is the same in regard to other places),
as it is simply granted to people with plenty of
means of their own, who with it pay men to pro-
spect for them. Those to whom the vote is doled
out consist of lawyers, publicans, wholesale store-
keepers, squatters, and Melbourne syndicates—all
presumably with a good credit-balance at the
bank. They can get £2OO or £3OO out of this vote,
and they are supposed to use it in sinking and
driving at so much per foot, according to the
nature of the country. If it is taken to be worth
£2 per foot they get £l, and if a hard-up miner
comes along they get him to do it for 15s. and
pocket the odd ss. Or if they give him the £1
they get their private property prospected with
the public money. There has been some prospect-
ing done about here a year or so ago, and a gentle-
man was appointed to come and measure the work,
but he never went down the shafts—l supposed lie
was frightened—so he took the men’s word that
they were so deep and that they had done so
much driving, and they got a certificate for the
money. There is one party here who to my certain
knowledge got paid for more than he did by saying
it was .deeper than it really was. This State
money is mostly expended on old worked-out
claims or leases that these people have an interest
in, instead of its being applied to the development
of new ground. It appears to me that anyone who
has an interest in any ground about here and can
drive a buggy and pair to meet certain gentlemen
as they arrive by train can, without trouble, get a
few hundreds to try his ground.—Yours, Charles
Jones.
o-
A hotel servant-girl writes to a Barcaldine
(Q.) paper enquiring “why a certain amount of
work performed by a woman is not worth as much
as the same amount of work performed by a man,
providing she performs it as well ?” There’s only
one reason that we know of—and that not the one
usually advanced by the female advocates of
woman’s rights, but simply this ; that men are
largely collectivists, willing to sink ephemeral
personal advantages for permanent communal
benefits, while women are, almost to a woman,
individualists and, up to now, altogether lacking
in the cohesiveness and sinking of self necessary to
union. The hours of labour for women-servants,
whether employed in hotels or in private houses,
are undoubtedly over-long, but not, as a rule,
longer than thoseof male hotel and domestic ser-
vants ; therefore it is evident that lack of com-
bination and agitation is to blame in both cases,
and not the tyranny of that monster man, as the
man-hating woman so often tells us.
Dealing with the proposed compensation to such
publicans as may be compelled to retire from busi-
ness by the Local Option vote, Sydney Daily
Telegraph remarks that
A draper or a grocer, when selling out, is generally con-
tent to get from the incomer the value of his stock or
lease. If he asks more, the purchaser has nothing to do
but open anew shop next door. The hotelkeeper is on a
different footing. He has a monopoly created for him by
the licensing law, and, this being saleable, he demands
that the people who gave it must buy it back from him at
its full commercial value as soon as they decide that ,it is
not for their good that this law should continue in force.
This is not altogether fair. In most cases the
publican has paid a very high sum for the use of
his monopoly, a monopoly regarded everywhere
as a saleable commodity, even by the Grown,
which recognises and takes advantage of its value
by taxing it in its assessment of probate duty.
So thoroughly recognised is the goodwill of an
hotel as a transferable value that the house
whose landlord has been once convicted of unlaw-
ful trading is greatly depreciated in worth. The
injustice of confiscating licenses without making
any provision for compensation parallels that of a
land-tax which would swallow up all unearned
value on Crown-granted land, the property of a
recent purchaser who might have paid an enor-
mous price to the original grantee—who thus escapes
untaxed with perhaps a fortune in his pocket—
while the man who bought from him and has put
into the land the proceeds of his life-toil is de-
prived of the very means of his subsistence. There
is, so far as we can see, only one equitable solution
of the compensation difficulty, the one lately pro-
posed by The Bulletin. The public, who pre-
sumptively reap only a moral benefit, should not
be taxed for the compensation of publicans. Retir-
ing publicans’ fellow-tradesmen who pecuniarily
benefit by these competitors’ withdrawal should be
made to pay the piper.
A New Zealand editor builds a long 1 , impassioned
article on this text borrowed from the eloquent
Henry George
We will suppose anew colony established on a lonely
island. It includes men of all trades, including-a profes-
sional landlord ; and they all devote themselves to then-
particular industry. At the end of the first year the
colony is prospering, and the landlord, in pursuit of his
calling, collects the rents. At the end of the second year
he raises the rents because the colony is still advancing.
He raises them again in the third year, and by this time
he owns nearly the whole wealth of the island. Then
discontent begins to arise, but the landlord promptly
meets the difficulty. “Gentlemen,” he says, “you want
a protective tariff.” This embodies the whole argument
in favour of Protection in a sentence. -
It is just about time to burst up Mr. George’s
well-worn story about that island and to adjourn
that crippled illustration for the rest of its natural
life. First, nobody wants Freetrade on a place
where there is no trade of any kind ; and, second,
no one cares a straw for Protection in a com-
munity which has no outside competitor to bo
protected against. And as neither institution is
of the slightest use to anybody under such condi-
tions the result would have been the same if that
mythical landlord, while addressing the non-
existent community of Mr. George’s imaginary
island, had announced as a remedy for the evils of
landlordism ; “Gentlemen, you want Freetrade !”
In fact, he might have told them that what they
really needed was a gallon of hair-wash and a
balloon, and the argument would have worked
just as well. Pretty nearly every one of George’s
Freetrade illustrations answers on either side of
the case with equal facility.
South Australia is to be commiserated
with in the “ moral staggerer” she has just re-
ceived. Amongst the Crow-eaters compensation
for improvements obtains a place in the Crown
Lands Alienation Act, and the interpretation of
the term is so liberal that it pretty well embraces
everything from fried eggs to a trip to the Mel-
bourne Cup. To meet these compensation-claims
the colony, a short time ago, borrowed some two
hundred and fifty thou., but now it is found that
three millions is owed—and wanted. When the
N.'S.W. Land Bill was under discussion some in-
furiated pastoralists with Bathurst burrs in their
hair actually went round demanding compensation
for ring-barking.


An exhilarating cordial is Wolfe's Schnapps.
[?]
846 Macquarie-street North, Sydney, July 9,1890.
My Dear Moorabinda, —
Governor and Lady Carington returned from their
Southern flight just in time to preside over the
Halles’ last appearance on sth inst., when the Cen-
tenary Hall was quite full and people gladly paid five
shillings for standing-room in the top gallery at 7.30.
With such a crowd cyclones of enthusiasm were a foregone
conclusion, and twice during the evening Lady Halle was
literally smothered in beautiful flowers—at July prices,
too. The house looked really smart. On the performers'
platform Lord and Lady Carington with their little daugh-
ters and Miss Walenn had places, and on the upper stage
Mrs. Burdekin sat with a bevy of damsels. Lady Carington
wore a black silk-and-lace gown with net sleeves and
clusters of white flowers, black shoes, and diamond shoe-
buckles, hair ornaments, and neck-pendants—a very small
white fan and a red plush cloak completing- the quiet
toilet. The Baron was as rosy as a rustic ; he is returning
to Albert Edward’s bosom quite a rejuvenated personage.
The little Caringtons wore simple white frocks and blue
sashes, and I do wish local mammas would go and do like-
wise by their touzled, corseted offspring. Miss Walenn
appeared in yellow ; Mrs. Burdekin in mignonette-green
with Maltese lace ; Miss Burdekin, black net and lace re-
lieved with scarlet poppies; Mrs. M'Quade, sunflower-
yellow silk and a Vandyck collar ; Carrie Swain wore
black and diamonds; Frances Saville, black velvet ;
Mrs. Calvert, black silk and net with bouquet of
violets. But Lady Halle’s gown was handsomest of all.
The skirt was in pale grey-green brocade, with panels
spangled in silver ; full elbow-sleeeves of chiffon high on
the shoulders, and held at the elbow with bands of darker
velvet broidered in silver-leaves; the bodice quaintly
t rimmed with bands of same, grey shoes and a multipi-
city of diamond brooches on the pointed corsage. Miss
Naylor, who accompanied, wove green, while Mrs.
Turner’s startling attire in bright blue velveteen com-
bined in a strippy way with cream silk embroidered in
big pink-flowers, looked like a mingling of Advance
Australia and an Arcade fancy-workshop. At the end of
the concert Mr. Otton, the Turners, and Miss Naylor left
per Fitzroy for Brisbane, the Halles following by train.
Now that the Halles have vanished tearfully into the
thirsty North (followed, 1 am told, by one or two adorer 8
whose worship was loud and frequent during the Cen
tenary Hall season, and who desire to pose as pilgrims to
the shrine of the high-class), your Sappho wants to say
that if the musicians’ audiences were typical of local
crotchet-culture, then she is sorry for culture’s frockist—
that’s all. Such awesome, hay-baggy garments were
never seen on sea or land before, and the— cv— unconven.
tionality of the prevailing coiffure, out of which the hair-
pins stuck like almonds out of a tipsy-cake, gave me a
nervous headache. Quite the feature of these super-
mundane, aggressively-absorbed individuals was their
invariable remark to the usher when they had to hunt for
places. They never said: “We can’t hear here;” they
always said: “We can see nothing from here !”—a verbal
revelation which caused a sad, cynical smile as wide as a
hay-rake to light up your Sappho’s speaking countenance-
-The Toole matinee at Sydney Royal on sth inst. drew- a
dense house (in both senses), dominated by the unthink-
ing matinee girl in a bighat with her tame boy along
eating chocolate out of the same bonbonnitre when the
gas w-as out. Maggie Moore, in a box, looked about
sixteen in a big hat with red on top of it, but nobody
else inspired a pencil-scratch, and I gave ray undivided
attention to Caleb, who brought a tear to my eye in the
last act, though I.was very far from sobs in the first, when
the meretricious “ spirit of the house” fired out a sing-
song apostrophe in which she crudely used the verb
“has” after a plural nominative. By the way, the
“Royal” music is becoming quite lovely. The other
night they played the “ Danse des Satyrs” especially well,
and at the matinee a difficult piccolo solo deserved an
encore. It didn’t get one hand-clap, of course. People
regard the orchestra.as a thing merely set up to make
enough row to drown the scene-shifting clatter.
Neutral Bay Sailing Club ball, at Nithsdale rooms on
3rd inst., was remarkable for the number of girls in nice
gowns, and the beautiful time kept by the band; the
design of the dance-cards was greatly admired. Lord
Charles and Lady Scott w-ere present for most part of the
evening, Lady Scott wearing plucked-chicken pink net
and silk and a beautiful bouquet presented by the com-
mittee in the club’s colours, which, being red and white,
didn’t exactly harmonise with the rest of her toilette.
Under such circumstances a presentation bouquet becomes
a perfect insult. An eau de nil silk draped over, a jupe of
white pearled satin was a very satisfactory gowning on a
pretty girl.
A Parramatta medico lately administered a facer to a
widower about to re-tie the nuptial knot, and w ho hadn't
settled with Dr. Sawbones for officiating at the demise of
s 'o- 1. “ I’m going to be married on Tuesday,” said the
nat-band bridegroom, genially ; “come and see me turned
off, Doctor.” “Not until you pay me for turning off
t he last one,” calmly replied Aesculapius. And the worst
of it w-as there was somebody listening.
A number of Sydney young ladies are now- tearing
round in nurses’ cloaks and bonnets, though their experi-
ence of “nursing” is strictly confined to ihe amateur
efforts of their best boys in the back parlour who don’t
know a stethoscope from a blue pill. They adopt the
garb primarily because it “becomes” them more or less
and is decidedly conspicuous. The nurses’ uniform is so
conspicuous now by moonlight in the leafy lanes of the
suburbs as to make one wonder who mixes the gruel at
the hospitals.
A big Australian drapery has started giving five o'clock
t«» to its customers who come to fit on during the
afternoon, and the happy result is that they are engaging
extra hands. Their making charge is higher than the
other shops, but then for an infinitesimal mug of tea and
half an inch of rolled bread, which she could get for six-
pence outside, the average female will willingly pay a per-
centage on her drapery and think she has the best of the
bargain. I hope the idea catches on in Sydney. When
you are standing cold and unveiled shifting from foot to
foot while a clammy-handed dressmaker rasps a pair of
frozen shears round the back of your neck, a jorum of
hot tea would seem like an angel’s inspiration doubly so
if your modiste were allowed to have one also to warm
the tips of her fingers. By the by, the enterprising firm
which puts a bit of a sthick in the cup, intended for the
“ representative ” matron, and asks no questions, will
amass a competency in a fortnight.
As was anticipated, the tableaux-vivants at the Sydney
School of Arts on 3rd instant, under the management of
Mr. William Hollinworth, aided by a bevy of very special
girls combined to shore up the staggering cause of the
Women’s College, were a symmetrical success. Of the
sixteen pictures perhaps the most faithful was the first
one, “Diogenes,” carefully copied from the New South
Wales Gallery picture even to the incorrect Japanese sun-
shades and the unearned increment shading the person of
the philosopher. The first sailor in “ The Eastern Ques-
tion,” from the well-known picture, was posed to perfec-
tion. In fact, all the pictures were pacifying, though the
limelight effects were somewhat jerky and occasionally a
large black hand would be shadowed o’er the scene at a
critical moment. At intervals Mrs. Mason (amateur)
with Miss Saville, Mrs. Vanderveer Green, Mr. Donovan,
and Mr. L. Jones (accompanied by Miss Naylor) contri-
buted sweet sounds in their very best manner from the front
of the stage, which was beautifully decorated (gratis) with
camellias, fairy lamps and ferns by Florist Maude, and
the band of the 2nd Regiment contributed 40-h.p. selec-
tions in a fortissimo manner which made one yearn for
ear-wadding occasionally. Owing to the non-appearance
of the Halles and Mrs. Burdekin, the divan of patronage
was filled by Sir John Robertson and the pretty Lady
Maklay—who wore black striped silk grenadine and
corsage-bouquet of violets. Other gownings were Miss
Walenn in pale-blue silk, Miss Saville in an “ only-a-pansj - -
blossom ” sort of costume —the bodice and train of yellow
silk with jupe of crystal net with panels of painted heart s-
ease, clusters of pansies on the corsage and right hip,
diamond ornaments; Mrs. Mason cream net, ribbon, and
moire en traine, with ostrich feathers on the corsage ;
Mi'S. Vanderveer Greene, black velvet Marie Stuart costume
with clusters of saffron roses. A number of sweet gii'l
graduates came in robes and mortar-boards (and I couldn’t
help noticing how stoopy their shoulders looked), while
quite an intellectual air was lent to the show by student-
ushers in fur-lined gowns. Several baskets of flowers
were presented to the lady vocalists (nobody ever fires a
nosegay at a he-warbler, though I suppose men like
flowers as well as we do). Miss Saville received three
immense baskets, while Miss Naylor was the recipient of a
very special tribute fixed up with flowing ribbons.
A young lady writes me in a horrified -strain about the
awful behaviour of a number of “ lady-like looking girls ’
travelling first-class by the Southern express the other day
in a ladies’ compartment, who actually solaced themselves
with split-sodas and brandy and cigarettes to while the
night away !
I am requested to state that East Sydney Rowing Club
will hold their annual ball at West’s Rooms on 14th prox.
Mr. A. Steele is hon. sec.
The Fourth of July flare-up at Sydney Exhibition
Building was handicapped by a soddening downpour
without, and a very nominal crush within, and was
spoilt by having combined with it the Bourke flood-relief
ball(which had hung-flre urtaided). The barn was gorgoously
decorated with star-spangled banners, Union Jacks, ferns )
and turkey-twill in red, white, and blue, and in deference
to the amalgamated nature of things towns on the Dar-
ling alternated with ’Murkan centres as rendezvous-and
the fact that gas was substituted for electric-light in illu-
minating the scene was in keeping with the “eternal
fitness” of things. At 11.30 p.m. G. S. Titheradge read
the “ Declaration ” in an unexpected sort of voice which
sounded in the vast and gruesome building like the ob-
servations of a distant watch-dog. Among the dresses,
plain and fancy, were a yellow silk with black velvet
bows-and-ends on the right hip, folds of velvet inside the
bodice, fawn lyre-bird fan and diamond brooches—worn
by Mrs. Burdekin, who danced the first square with
Consul Griffin, the Mayor’s partner being Mrs. Vander-
veer Greene in white satin over white tulle jupe with gold,
spangles, white plume fan and Toby collar. A pretty
frock was in cream satin and gauze with chiffon shoulder
puffs, the skirt caught round the feet with lilies of the
valley, and another cream silk with front of crystal net
and bands of green velvet was mildly bearable in a scene
which was remarkable for dreadful frockery. For ex-
ample, an ancient charmer hopped wildly in a fancy
costume with the powder lying deep in her—er—dimples,
and—but I must decline to make a faithful catalogue.
Yours affectionately,
SAPPHO SMITH.
The engagement of Miss Cox, daughter of Doctor Cox,
M.L.C., and sister of Lady Bertie, with Captain Trench,
A.D.C. to Lord Carington, is at last formally announced.
The marriage of Miss Gertie Fischer with Mr. ‘‘Bob” Smith
was to have taken place this month, but the date has
been again altered, owing to Miss Fischer’s recent jllness.
Society is anxiously awaiting the announcement of the
engagement of a charming widow with a “ very fine young
man ” who hails from one of the Points.
At the recent meeting of “old boys” and friends of the
late Rev. G. F. Macarthur, for many years head-master of
the King’s School, Parramatta, it was resolved that the
Macarthur memorial shall take the form of a scholarship,
open to boys educated at the King’s School. Subscriptions
are being received by Messrs. E. J. Jenkins, M.D. (213
Macquarie-street), and J. A. Dowling, 28 O’Connell-street.
A scholarship will live longer than a “storied urn,” and
will be a form of memorial far better adapted to keep
green the name of the veteran preceptor.
A high Australian civic dignitary is a sight to be seen
when on the light fantastic. He gets tangled at the knees
in waltzing, and his partner’s face is a study. His apolo-
gists call it the “old style.” But what’s the matter with
the modern dancing-masters?
Mr. E. B. Bosanquet, J.P., of “ Mollesmain,” Narellan,
died at the residence at Double Bay of his brother, Captain
Bosanquet, on Ist inst.
The wedding of Miss Jessie Bartholomew with Mr. J
W. Stafford, a Maryborough (Q.) lawyer, eventuated on
21th ult. , at the local Presbyterian church, when the bride
w ove w hite corded silk and the invariable orange-wreath
and veil, and made a pretty picture. The honeymoon is
being spent in the South. The bride’s mamma is sleeping
partner in a big local sawmill which did not cease to work
on the auspicious occasion. Scottish, ye ken.
A surprise-party of forty—suggestive number !—em-
ployds of the “ Picturesque Atlas of Australasia,” turned
up at the charming suburban residence of Mr. Silas Lyon
Moffett, the Bismarck of the book-trade, on the night of
Fourth of July. Mr. Moffett, knowing that they were
about to raid him, laid in the requisite drink, and the
Forties provided the cheers for the independence of Mr.
Moffett’s native land. Mr. Moffett, we understand, is on
4th July a pronounced American.
The practice of scenting the body by hypodermic injec-
tion is apt to lead to blood-poisoning. Some perfumes are
impure, others essentially poisonous.
The Wesleyan Ladies’ College, Hawthorn, Melb., that
luxurious place for the godly upper crust, with the pious
poor warned off, has just opened a swimming bath,
whereat the Blue Bell, a paper issued by the young
ladies, waxes jubilant, and breaks into much poetry, quite
etherealising bricks, mortar, and water.
The first prize at the beauty-show at Rome, the other
day, was won by Mile. Th6r6se Berger, from Vienna, a
lovely blonde with ideal blue eyes; a tall, Juno-hke
woman, dressed from head to foot in pink silk. Dress,
skirts, shoes, stockings, tunica intima, &c., all were of
pink silk—at least so says the President, Who had to view
the candidates, for the public naturally was not admitted
to the dressing or undressing process.
A “Cinderella” dance, got up by a few of the profes-
sional musicians of Sydney, will be held on 15th instant at
West’s rooms. It is hoped they will include a few vocal
and instrumental items.
Mrs. Burdekin’s unofficial dance at Need’s rooms on
SOth ult. was a success in every way, decoration, floor,
and refreshments being decidedly good. It is not true
that Mrs. Burdekin has a children’s ball on the tapis.
Melbourne Government House ball will eventuate on
17th instant. “ Guests not admitted unless cards of invi-
tation are produced at the door.”
A London paper says that at a fancy-dress ball, given
in the cause of charity, a noble lordling appeared in the
guise of “ Jack the Ripper and no mention is made of
the stewards having refused the sprig of nobility admis-
sion.
A Newcastle (N.S.W.) pedagogue sent a letter to the
parent of a truant, the other day, asking the cause of the
kid’s non-attendance. The reply ran:—“Dear Sir,—-I
don’t know the cause of Tommy’s absence, but he will
very soon feel the effect.” Neat, in a small way.
Mrs. Judge Windeyer was “at home” to a number of
guests on Ist inst., when the house and ground were
beautifully illuminated with lanterns and fairy lights, and
the supper was very dainty. Mrs. Windeyer wore a
handsome gown of black silk, lace, and passementerie.
Communications intended for this column should reach
The Bulletin office by Tuesday.
Every dog has his day—Bismarck had 28
years.
Hyndman, the Socialist, was at one time
in Melbourne for some months.
Broken Hill Proprietary silver-mine pays
half-a-million dividend for the half year. Where
now is the Comstock mine ?
Why not in future celebrate America’s
glorious Fourth of July in Australia, as Austra-
lians ? Surely it’s a day worjbh our honoring, as
Republicans. See to it, boys.
It was a standing joke amongst N.S.W.
members of Parliament that no one ever knew
where “Tom” Dangar, the recently-deceased
M.L. A., lived while in Sydney.
Almost the oldest house in Melbourne has
just been pulled down—that familiar, white,
smallish-gabled place on the corner of Spring and
Flinders-streets, opposite Treasury Gardens.
The attitude of the Irish National Party in
the House of Commons on the Compensation
Clause of the Liquor Act Amendment 13ill differs
entirely from that of the Irish members in Aus-
tralian Parliaments on the same question.
Rosa, who fulminated dynamite threats at
the Melbourne unemployed, the other day, is a
young fellow. He was unjustly sentenced to a
month in gaol among felons, for making a demon-
stration to get Melbourne Public Library open on
Sunday, and this style of thing rubs salt into a
wound. So Rosa wants, quite naturally, to strip
the gunshops.
Dan. O’Connor is to have his portrait in
oil—why not in lard ?—by Ashton, hung in the
operating-room at Sydney central telegraph-office.
In view of recent events the artist will no doubt
depict Daniel in police-uniform armed with a club.
While they are at it the clerks should order a
whole series of portraits, including those of John
Davies and Burnsby Horns.
The story in the London papers about the
rich Australian widow to whom fortune came
by means of £l2O worth of Broken Hill shares
which were valueless when her husband died but
afterwards ran up enormously in value, refers to
Mrs. J. C. Dalglish, of Goulburn, N.S.W. The
lady has got the £25,000 a year right enough, but
the shares have not sensationally increased in value
since her husband’s death.
A Military Exhibition is on in London,
and includes an arm-sling actually made by Queen
Victoria for some wounded hero in the Crimea.
All the snobbiculi worship that arm-sling, marked
“Made by Victoria R., 1855.” What a lucky
fellow he was who had his arm chopped off to
wear it in those sublime Sebastopol trenches ! Its
properties were miraculous —a new arm grew, like
a new dog on to the stump of tail. Her Sacred
Majesty !
The Bulletin is sorry to notice the cir-
cumstances under which Mr, John Hurley has
been forced to resign his seat for Hartley in the
N.S.W. Legislative Assembly. Some years ago
Mr. Hurley was very wealthy and he bore well
Fortune’s smile, for he is known to thousands and
thousands of miners and others in several of the
Australias as one of the most open-hearted and
generous men who ever paid a worker a week’s
wages, or put his hand into his pocket for a friend.
It is therefore by no means probable that _ his
bankruptcy will affect his chance of re-election.
It is said he will be opposed in the Protectionist
interest by the energetic Mr. John Norton.
Through the death, the other day, of the
aged Mrs. Agnes Simmons, of Woolloomooloo, an
enormous sum of money falls to her family. It is
understood that the bulk of her vast personal for-
tune (which, together with her late husband’s
belongings, is variously estimated at from £400,000
to a million and a half) is divided under the will
between deceased’s two daughters, Mrs. Gus.
Wangenheim and Mrs. Gladstone, of Elizabeth
Bay, Sydney. Dear old Gus. Wangenheim, the
gentleman and artist who kept a public-house,
years too soon fell asleep for ever over his cigar.
What a king he would have felt himself had he,
with the handling of a quarter-of-a-million of
money, sat among the boys and the lager-beer
drawing charcoal caricatures on a marble slab
and writing cheques for his friends in Bohemia !
Mr. John Neill, Australia’s keenest safe financier,
and perhaps biggest ready-money man, is sole
trustee of this big estate.
The London electric telegraph clerks (they
lately hissed the Queen) intend to strike unless
they be allowed overtime ; the postmen demand
(alternative, a strike) an increase of wages to a
minimum of 245. in London and 21s. in country
districts ; 90 London policemen have been reported
and 40 suspended for refusing to do duty; the
London dock-clerks, alleging that they are worse
paid than the dock laborers, intend to strike ; and
now we learn that the second battalion of the
Coldstream Guards has refused to parade for
kit-inspection and have hooted their colonel.
They complain that they are subject to use-
less drills and inspections; probably this in-
crease of work is due to the fact that they were
being drilled to perform police duties in case of
a big police-strike. Now, a body of men will have
to be drilled to replace them. Such replacements
are hopeless ; the organisations of the discontented
are spreading in every stratum of society and the
social fabric is honeycombed with disaffection.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Theatre Royal. “Paul Jones.”
Her Majesty's “After Dark.”
Criterion “ A Doll’s House.”
Cyclorama Gettysburg.
Darlingiiurst Skating Rink.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WH'EK.
New Bijou “The Rocket” and “Bar-
bara.”
Princess’s . .. “ Romeo and Juliet.”
Alexandra .... “Master and Man.”
Theatre Royal “ Love and Money.”
Opera House “ Now-a-Days.”
Victoria Hall The U.S. Minstrels.
Waxworks The Phonograph.
“School,” at Sydney Criterion, has per-
haps drawn better houses than anything ever
staged there, and “5.R.0.” has been hung out
almost nightly. Harry Edwards in his benefit
speech remarked that his sympathies were all in
favour of stock companies, and he could honestly
assure all present that at that moment the Brough-
Boucicault Comedy Company was one of the
strongest that could be found throughout the
English-speaking world. (Cheers.) They ought
to be proud of it. (Cheers, and a voice: “We
are.”) Therefore the success of “ School ” is not
surprising. The most noteworthy thing in con-
nection with it is the manner in which George
Anson has wormed himself into the skin of Beau
Earintosh, a character that fitted him nowhere on
first night. “A Doll’s House,” in the hands of
Janet Achurch, Eanny Enson, George Tither-
adge, Herbert Flemming, and Charles Charring-
ton, will be staged on Saturday. There was a
School matinee on Friday, 11th.
* ** *
The chief event of the week at Her
Majesty’s was Monday’s farewell benefit to Henry
Edwards, a sterling actor and good fellow, but
certainly not in want of pecuniary assistance.
The stock company performed an act of “ After
Dark,” Toole gave a comic lecture, John Billing-
ton recited Edwin Waugh’s (he died the other
day) Lancashire ballad, “Come whoam to the
childer an’ me,” Maud Leamington sang tunefully,
Harry Quealy danced, “ Billy ” Warner recited,
the B. & B. company gave the second act of
“School,” and the beneficiare recited and then
spoke a piece in which he said that his first
engagement was in Melbourne, where, in ’64-’66,
after eight months’ probation, he played second to
G. V. Brooke and Charles Kean in the finest
company of actors at that time in existence, in-
cluding, as it did, Ooppin, Brooke, Lambert,
Rogers, Hoskins, Charles Young, and others, and
declared his intention of returning to Australia in
the near future. “Meg; the Story of a Waif,”
will probably be produced on J uly 19.
** * *
At Sydney Gaiety the “Fauntleroy ” season
closed on Tuesday night last, when three little
lords, Graeie Hopkins, Olive Berkley and Mabel
Russel (a new member of the peerage) performed.
Mabel, daughter to E. B. Russel, hitherto known
favourably as “little Eva,” though even more
girlish-looking than the others, speaks her lines as
clearly as any member of the company and with a
little practice is likely to evoke favourable com-
parisons. As already announced, Henry Ed-
wards, Graeie Hopkins, and Ethel Winthrop
sailed for America on Wednesday ; “ Bill ” Leake
joins Bland Holt, and Geo. Leopold, we believe,
returns to B. and B. The gaps will be filled by E.
B. Russel, Mabel Russel, E. Haygarth, Nellie
Greenlees and F. Campbell, while Irene Darrell
and F. Cambourne will be permanently promoted.
The company, directed by Geo. Wothersp on and
managed by W. A. Jenkins, open shortly in
Maryborough (Q.) and work back thence to
Brisbane.
** * *
At Sydney Royal the Toole season has
been wound up by rapid changes of programme.
The company’s best all-round performance at the
time of writing has been “Dot,” about the only
play in the repertoire from which all the life has
not been squeezed out of the other characters to
give the star room for distention. To our mind,
John Perrybingle (we were glad to see John Bu-
lington get a show at last) is the character of the
piece, and public opinion wisely says that it was
also the performance in “Dot” and, perchance,
that of the season likewise. Billington’s character
impersonation of the rough, manly, warm-hearted
carrier is very much on all-fours with William
Rignold’s Jack Saxton, and the character would
suit Brother Bill down to the ground. Toole’s
Caleb Plummer is a fairly meritorious perform-
ance, but feeble in the confession scene, where his
sobs seemed shallow, his tears mere surface water,
and his grief utterly without the spontaneity of
unsimulated sorrow. But the S. M. Herald’s
critic says' “A performance of such artistic
magnitude as Mr. Toole’s Caleb Plummer
naturally overshadows the remainder of the com-
pany.” Hum! It was, therefore, probably Mr.
Toole’s modest consideration for the remainder of
the company that prompted him to play “Dot”
(a big draw) on two occasions only. Tilly Sloeboy
is admirably handled by Eliza Johnstone, who
always seems proof against the doziness that at
times takes hold of this company. The Toyman
Tackleton of Geo. Shelton (a very useful actor) was
a good performance of an unpleasant part. Effie
Liston’s “Dot” was a long way her best Sydney
representation, Jenny Donald was useful as was
Alice Deorwyn, and as the blind Bertha one
little touch of Irene Vanbrugh’s gave promise of
better things to come with experience and oppor-
tunity. The Ned Plummer of C. Lowne was not
impressive; that actor may have “soul,” but
knows not how to voice its promptings. Toole’s
Sergeant Buzfuz is a finished piece of acting.
“The Spitaltields Weaver” and “Off the Line”
are staged on Friday night, when J. L. will seize
the opportunity to say “a few words.” The
company sail for Brisbane shortly, and “Paul
Jones” fills the vacancy on Saturday night.
At Sydney Cycloranm the thunder and
lightning effects, the sound of bugle-calls, band-
marches, guns, and rain falling on the helmets of
the numerous colonels who fell at Gettysburg,
combined with the lowering of prices, has given
the show a fresh lease of life.
** * *
At Bondi Aquarium, in the thirty miles’
walking match, Murray, of Scotland, with two
miles’ start, easily defeated M'Laren, of Sydney.
They will meet again on more even terms. The
Sunday concerts are still successful, and in the
sweet voice and cultured vocalisation of Tilly
Salinger the only Wyburd has a sure draw.
-* * « «
At Darlinghurst Skating Rink, the mile-
race for the amateur championship of N.S. Wales
was decided in favour of Campbell, Garland having
tripped over his opponent’s skate towards the close
of the contest. They will meet again. The carun


A GHOST
is not a photograph, nor a photo, a ghost—but a good photo, is a
true reflection of the original. For high-art photos, go to the
London Palace of Art, 10 Park-street, Sydney, Country photographers’ work from developement
to completion executed at lowest, prices. Prornides a speciality, Staff of artists kept for working up.
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
Old-fashioned Jewellery modernised to perfection. t>e.
signs free. Damns and Co., King-street Areade.
val was highly successful, and as the best-dressed
gentleman polled more votes than the best-dressed
lady, it is evident that ladies were in the majority.
* iic- iif -;ic-
The *• Romeo and Juliet ” production at
Melbourne Princess’ is a nice, elegant thing to
have about a house where one meets the “best”
people. The publishers have bound W. Shake-
speare’s story in crimson and gold, and illustrated
the chief incidents with some of Brunton’s noblest
works of art. Pretty pictures of the hero and
heroine, in various attitudes of joy, sorrow, cuddle,
despair, and corpse, abound throughout the ex-
pensive volume. But in the setting-up of the
text, this latest edition of the old, sensuous love-
tale is not more satisfactory than was expected.
Many of the lines come out very faint, or are
chopped up into wrong lengths, badly punctuated,
and italicised on a system so eccentric that one
finds a difficulty in making sense out of them. All
of which is intended for a burst of metaphor,
signifying that “ Romeo and Juliet ” may be com-
pared to a tender chop, the fat whereof is not
properly done right through, though it is served
upon a silver plate. Nevertheless, the performance
reaches an average of merit, much higher than that
supplied by plain Bill Holloway’s “onegirl show,”
Romeo, Bellew looks the sort of young Italian
to set a dozen undisciplined maidens ablaze, and
his clothes alone are a sufficient cue and motive
for Juliet’s passion. Throughout the piece he is
picturesque, and even powerful in a pretty, un-
natural fashion. But in none of his previous per-
formances has Bellew so slavishly copied Irving.
At the Princess’s we get the latter’s conception of
Romeo interpreted by a curled darling, the result
being a triumph for Bellew’s body rather than for
his brains. Sass is a tame Mercutio, and Ireland,
monotonous and unsympathetic, makes Friar
Lawrence too much like the Twelve Apostles.
Wilson Forbes, H. W. Diver, and several others
are good in minor characters, while Miss Helen
Kinnaird cuts a magnificent dash as Lady Capulet.
Mrs. Potter is likewise a delightful spectacle
when site doesn’t stick out her arm like a
danger-signal and bay at the moon. In the
balcony scene she has some lovely lucid
intervals, and again in the first bedroom scene,
where she has to shiver in her nightdress at the
thought of getting married twice in one Aveek,
Mrs. Potter’s manner is occasionally rational and
impressive. The one great fault of Mrs. P.’s
acting is her talking. If she never spoke, and
didn’t play wild antics with her anatomy, it would
be easy to accept her as an ideal Juliet. But as
long as she drones out the lines through her teeth,
doing her best to break up poor old Shakespeare’s
soul, Mrs. Potter will remain a constant source of
irritation to all save the chappies. Bellew says of
this lady’s Juliet, that it is like nobody else’s, and
he tells the truth. The very worst feature of the
performance is its originality. Mrs. Potter is
unfortunate in her Nurse, played very indifferently
by Mrs. Bryer, but Romeo and the scenery ought
to keep her going for a while.
» ;}:• * *
“ She Stoops to Conquer ” has been doing
good legitimate business at the Bijou, the only
Melbourne theatre where anything of a light en-
tertainment is procurable just now. To all
appearances Goldsmith's comedy would have kept
the house warm for another fortnight but it has to
come off on Saturday, when Pinero’s farcical
comedy, “The Rocket,” preceded by “Barbara,”
will shoot up for the first time in Melbourne.
And this double bill is to be changed the following
week.
$£ 7tf
“ Now-a-Days ” conies to Melbourne Opera
House at a time when two other theatres are pro-
ducing stuff of a similar class. Beyond
William Rignold’s able, hearty realisation of Jack
Saxton, there is nothing about “Now a-Days ” to
recommend it to a public who have just seen
“ Flying Scud ’’ and another cardboard Derby on
the opposite side of the street. The characters
who meander round Saxton, senior, and listen
while he puts them to confusion by talking a little
common-sense, are but a weak crowd in comparison
with their more popular contemporaries. Under
different circumstances the return of old acquaint-
ances like W. G. Carey, Charles Hall, Tolano,
and Miss Watts-Phillips, all of whom used to sup-
port brother George on the same stage, might
have aroused some sentimental interest, but now
they come as drugs on the melodramatic market.
The men appear badly-dressed, and the ladies are
not particularly alluring. Mr. Rignold, as already
suggested, seems to be the one redeeming feature
of “Now-a-Days,” and it is obvious that he will
barely succeed in redeeming it from failure.
** * *
At the Royal they are running “Flying
Scud ” a third week just to demonstrate the
superiority of one racing drama over another. On
Saturday the wily firm will fix up “ Love and
Money,” by Charles Reade and Henry Pettitt, a
drama which is mostly down among the coals,
and bears upon the rights of labour and gas-
explosions. This grimy work, new to Australia,
is probably intended to mitigate the fury of the
Alexandra boom.
** * *
The latter house was packed on Saturday
in honour of Bland Holt, who comes along this
time with a strong, amusing show. “Master and
Man ’’ contains a scene that lives in the memory,
and will draw the town for many a week. At the
end of the third act a mob of ironworkers have
reached that stage of dissatisfaction with current
events when they must pitch the foreman on the
fire. The men are in earnest. They don’t merely
make a rumbling noise and grin at one another,
after the custom of stage insurrections, but they
display an intensity of purpose which will pro-
bably result in the actual cremation of A. R.
Lawrence one night when the hero doesn’t
turn up quick enough to pluck this brand
from the burning. In addition to the para-
mount situation a good deal of persecu-
tion and child-stealing keeps interest alive,
the sin and harrow being suitably sandwiched
between Bland Holtian humour. Mrs. Bland
Holt, who gets more winsome every day, assists
her husband in running a pub on exceptionally
lively principles, and they keep a bull-pup, named
Beelzebub,- who sleeps under the rum-barrel until
he gets his cue to come forward and scowl at the
perlice. They say that the furious ironworkers
are kept up to their work by this same Beelzebub,
who would as lief eat a super as wag his tail.
“ Master and Man” is well played in all the lead-
ing parts, and Lawrence, Miss Maggie Knight,
Rosier, Augustus Glover, and the rest will receive
an encouraging snort at another opportunity.
*****
The Phonograph is talking to good business
at the Waxworks, the Victoria Hall niggers con-
tinue to have a monopoly of the minstrel market,
and the Battle of Waterloo has been doing some-
thing special in honour of July 4th, although
there is no apparent connection between American
Independence and the Duke of Wellington.
A Sydney amusement syndicate served
themselves with a writ for £5OOO and their
manager with a £2500 one for Sunday opening.
The idea, of course, was to throw the genuine
“ gimlets ” or Sabbatarians off the scent; for the
issue of a writ under which no proceedings were
taken would, of course, not have precluded the
issue of another.
*- * * *
Says a ’Frisco paper :—“ Mrs. Potter is
in Australia with Kyrle Bellew, meeting with
varying suoess. In Melbourne her performance
elicited the following lines from the Argus of that
city ;
A stagey sticking out of arms,
A frequent faint, a feeble totter
A voice which rather bores than charms,
A handsome gown—that’s Mrs. Potter.
Though seeming less the more she's seen,
This compliment ’tis fair to pay her—
When Mrs. Potter plays Pauline
She is indeed a poor lean player.”
For ten long years The Bulletin has done its
level best to avoid being mistaken for the Argus,
and the ’Frisco editor who clipped the above
jingle from our Sundry Shows, and credited it to
the “ daily dreary ” aforesaid, has wounded us to
tht quick with his clumsy scissors. Our hard-
earned reputation is in danger. What is there to
prevent the same editor from reprinting a yard of
Argus matter as Bulletin ditto, with a footnote
to the effect that the celebrated Sydney journal
is evidently changing its style of humour ?
* -X * *
Oh, have you not heard of Bellew,
Who is mashing the ladies a few?
Their souls it delights
To behold him in tights,
And they blush like the roses, they du.
Yes, and the sweet young Kyrle—we call him
young because he was forty or so last birthday—
took the business precaution to tumble under a
Melbourne tram-car the other night, while return-
ing from Govingment House. The tram became
entangled in his long grey Kyrley locks and
dragged him 360 yards, more or less, before Mrs.
Potter, or somebody, drew the attention of the
gripman to this unusual circumstance. So they
stopped the caravan, whereupon the
actor, palebut unmoved, fell upon the
dummy in a heap of classic ruins, and
cried “Kyrle Bellew dies, but never
surrenders; on with the tram! let
joy be unconfined !” Subsequently he
fell off the dummy in great agony and
crawled into a surgeon’s, where they
bound up his wounds and gave him
another horse and took his dying de-
positions and one guinea. Next night
the news of this narrow escape was
published in the ’Ebald and public
interest to the extent of an extra 15
shillings was aroused at the Princess’s.
Subsequently a shock-headed beast
from the family circle insisted upon
having his money back on the ground
that David Garrick didn’t appear to be
suffering from four broken legs and a
corpse mangled beyond recognition, as
the paragraph had led him to suppose,
but the treasurer compromised with
the malcontent by giving him a ticket
available for the first night after Mrs.
Brown-Potter shall have been run over
by a goods-train and severely shaken.
** * *
That prince of the platform, the
Rev. Charles Clark, will take Sydney
by storm at the School of Arts next
Monday, when he delivers his brand-
new lecture-entertainment on Charles
Dickens. The Rev. C. C. was the in-
ventor of lecture-entertainments, and
was himself invented by the Rev. R.
S. Smythe some twelve summers ago,
when during a four-years’ tour he made
a fortune eby talking, which is more
than anybody male or even female has
done in Australia since.*
A sporting pressman, in the circle
Melbourne Princess’s on the first night
of “Romeo and Juliet,” took Mrs.
Brown-Potter’s time for those lightning
sprints across the stage. He cal- _ ,
culated that Juliet could do 100 yards in 8 3-sth
seconds.
Charles Warner and his youthful daughter,
Grade, had a brilliant reception on the occasion
of their farewell appearances at the Adelaide
Royal. Not that the merit of the performances
warranted such a hubbub, but the conceited
Chawles, in his own clever way, so ingratiated
himself with the Adelaide public on his first visit
to the city of tabernacles that they have clung to
him ever since. He took £6OO for the three nights
in Adelaide. The representation of “ The Lady
of Lyons ” was bad enough in all conscience, but
the way in which “Hamlet” was produced was
an outrage which cannot be forgiven. J. L.
Sheridan, under MacMahonian auspices, followed
with “ Uncle Tom’s Cabin,” and his business has
been very good. Johnny only remains for a short
season, as Frank Thornton comes along with
“ The Private Secretary.”
* * -M
Geo. C. Miln is now travelling New
Zealand, but theatricals are not in a very brisk
condition at this time of the year. His wife
(Miss Louise Jordan on the stage) is at present in
Sydney, and the friends of Mr. Miln, who
naturally feel some sympathy with him in his
recent losses in an attempt to play exclusive classic
drama in a worthy manner, have seized the oppor-
tunity to present her with a benefit concert. This
will take place on the 17th inst. at the Y.M.C. A.
Hall. Amongst many artistes who have promised
assistancearetheever-generousFrenchmen, Messrs.
Kowalski and Horace Poussard.
When Mr. and Mrs. Cowden Clarke brought out their
Shakesperian Concordance, Douglas Jerrold wrote a note
of congratulation to Mrs. Clarke, stating that Shake-
speare would kiss her on her arrival in Heavan, even if her
husband should happen to be present.
Four frugal Scotch females recently took two season-
tickets for Edinburgh Exhibition. Two went in on them
at an early hour, and then posted the tickets to the others,
who anxiously awaited the arrival of the mid-day mail at
home. They were bowled out; nevertheless, the dodge was
clever, and should appeal to the sympathies of the mag-
nates caught from time to time travelling to suburban
stations first-class on second-class tickets.
11 Much Ado About Nothing ” is to be produced at Mel-
bourne Bijou—B. and B.’s first Shakespearian play—with
Mrs. Brough as Beatrice.
George Titheradge read the Declaration of Independence
on the Fourth of July at the American ball in Sydney
Exhibition Building. He has performed the office before,
but it is not generally known that he read the proclama-
tion when Victoria was declared Empress of India.
The irrepressible Giddings has interviewed Santley at
Broken Hill. Santley speaks highly of the singing of
Frances Saville (Francesca Simonsen) and Mrs. Palmer
(Rosina Carandini). Of the former he says: “It is a
matter for regret that her singing is not more appreciated.
She has a pretty face and figure, and I like her singing
immensely.”
Dear Bulletin,'— l notice you wonder why the manage-
ment were afraid to try “Captain Swift” during Warner’s
last season. Surely the frost experienced when pro-
duced at Melbourne Princess’ was enough. Has the real
reason of the comparative failure out here of that fine
drama ever been printed? I think not. I was lucky
enough to see the play both in London and Melbourne,
and to me the reason for its different reception was suffi-
ciently apparent. The mounting of the piece was equally
good at both places, but at the Haymarket it was played
as a drama, quietly and effectively ; here, probably from
sheer force of habit, the artistes tried to play it as a
melodrama. Iver’s performance was something to be re-
membered, he looked the handsome adventurer, and
acted the part to perfection ; but the moment Warner
walked on the stage in a fair wig with a melodramatic air
everyone suspected no end of blood and thunder, and was,
in consequence, disappointed. Taken all round, the per-
formance was as bad a one as I have seen given in any
good theatre, although it is only fair to say that Herbert
Flemming was fully as good as the original representative
of the part. Take the “Man’s Shadow” again,
another big London success, which here could hardly
be kept going for a fortnight. Here the mounting
was excellent and the cast in nearly every respect equal to
that at the Havmarket. Jennie Watt-Tanner was, except
REV. CHARLES CLARKE.
perhaps in the matter of dress, quite as good in her part
as Julia Neilson, Maud Williamson was certainly very
much better as Henrietta than Mrs. Tree, Herbert Flem-
ming can hold his own with Fernandez, and the two
comedians and Baby Nicholls got there successfully. Cer-
tainly the part played by Rose Norreys could only have
been filled in the same manner out here by putting in
Pattie Browne. (How is it the firm have not a single good
souorette ?) Where does the failure come in, then ? Simply
that the star actor converted a fine drama into a shrieking'
melodrama, and not only that: altered the business, the
situations, and the language to make his own part
stronger. Anyone who saw it in London can tell you that
the end of the second act was altered so as to prevent the
curtain falling while the star was off the stage, while the
trial-scene was quite spoilt by the desperate efforts of the
same actor to prevent Herbert Flemming having, as
he should have had, and as F’ernandez had, the ter-
mination to himself. Total result, failure ; but surely
with sufficient cause. The public always in my ex-
perience know a good thing, but they won’t put up
with an inartistic performance ; so while the critics of
the morning papers rave about the bright particular star’s
brilliant acting, the public simply stay away and leave the
management to find out for themselves that they must
take their dailies for breakfast with a very considerable
dose of salt. What queer people these critics are too!
Omniscient is hardly the word for them. Some time ago
J. H. Clyndes appeared in Melbourne in the “ Colleen
Bawn.” Next morning the critics unanimously “went”
for his Irish accent, which was a bit unlucky, as he hap-
pens to be an Irishman, and to the manner of speaking
born. The critics only know sfa^e-Irish.—Yours, Ax Old
Hand,
The receipts during Warner’s farewell Adelaide season
were the largest—reckoning by average—ever known at
the local Royal.
Revivals of old comedies seem to come in epidemics.
“She Stoops to Conquer,” which is now running at Mel-
bourne Bijou, has within the last few weeks been per-
formed at two London theatres-the Vaudeville and
Criterion. The latter show is rearranged in three acts,
instead of five.
George Coppin gathered together a few professionals on
Sunday night last at his Richmond residence just to greet
“Bill” Rignold. Eighteen sat down to supper, when
William—who played his part well-sat next to Mrs.
Brough. After seven acts, or rather courses, the audience
parted, highly satisfied with a performance which was
efficiently stage-managed by Mr. Skinner.
The latest about Gilbert and Sullivan is that sassiety
women are at work with a view to restoring the dissolved
partnership. The report that Gilbert is writing a libretto
to Cellier’s music turns out to be wrong, as usual. Sims
and Pettitt will produce the book for Cellier’s next effort.
A Melbourne manager announces that an actor has been
“kindly lent” to him by another manager. This phrase
is a relic of the days of chattel slavery.
Buchanan and Pettitt have collaborated in an Adelphi
drama, which, it is hoped, will equal the best work of
Sims and Pettitt.
Johnny Solomon, having come to terms with his credi-
tors, has released his estate.
Toole’s first London appearance was under the manage
ment of Mrs. Seymour, who afterwards became house-
keeper to Ohas. Reade.
At the West Bromwiok Theatre, England, a few weeks
ago, a telegraph-message boy walked right on the stage,
during the love-scene between Hans the Boatman and
Gladys, and delivered a telegram to the lady.
Toole, they say, has sent home an old man kangaroo to
Irving, another delicate practical joke, most suggestive of
’Enery’s Hacting, his leaps and bounds and sprawlings
and Hoppings.
Melbourne Amateur Orchestral Society numbers 30 per-
formers, and has just given a testimonial to its conductor,
King. They don’t rasp and tootle before the public, but
only for their own satisfaction, like the Cat Nightingales.
Elton is what the Pros, call a Moaner. He grumbles
over his part, and ; then goes and makes it the feature of
the piece, the most conspicuous example being his Pata-
ques, in “ Pepita,” over which he actually struck, and had
almost to be frightened into acting it. One of his best
things at the London Gaiety was Caliban, in Burnand’s
Tempest, burlesque, to the Ariel of Nelly Barren. He is
beginning to moan over fresh fortune by Gilbert and
Sullivan.
“The Gondoliers” is to be the success of the year at
Melbourne Princess’.
Harwood lives in a luxurious villa, “Montreux,” on the
Heidelberg-road, Melb.
Somebody ought to write a play called “ John Bull”
for Bill Rignold.
Melbourne Royal management christens Reade and
Pettitt’s “ Love and Money ” the “ Black Country.”
A Garrick Club for Sydney is on the tapis.
Bland Holt, at Melbourne Alexandra, will produce,
besides “Master and Man,” the Drury Lane drama of
“Pleasure,” the Adelphi drama of “London Day by Day,”
and Wilson Barrett’s “Golden Ladder.”
J. L. Toole has not been spelling his name with a
“ Ph” so frequently in Sydney as he did in Melbourne.
Williamson and Garner have been fined £1 and five
guineas costs for employing a child under ten years of
age during a recent performance of the “ Silver King” at
the Theatre Royal.
A Sydney girl, aged fifteen, charged with stealing
money, umbrellas, bags, &c., from little girls on then-
way to school, accounted for the possession of some
money and property by saying that it was given her by
another girl to go “ stiff” in a race for a gold medal at a
skating-rink. She was further “ stiffened” by a sentence
of seven days’ imprisonment and three years in Shaftes-
bury Reformatory.
Theatre Royal, Melbourne, is to let. Minimum, £lOO a
week. Nine years’ lease of W,, G., and M. expires 30th
June, 1891, and new tenancy begins Ist July, tenders
being open till 81st December, 1890. All kinds of rumours,
one of Coppin having a throw-in, another of Chas. Warner
being concerned, but there is a general feeling that the
house is behind the times. However, Williamson and
Garner are likely to be at it again, with Musgrove and
MacMahons as competitors, perhaps. The Royal sinks
into the Melbourne Adelphi, all the prestige now attach-
ing to the Princess’.
Edward Lyster is sub-editing New York Truth.
Petty Lind was, at latest, dancing as Euphrosyne in
Buchanan’s “ Bride of Love,” at London Adelphi.
The Van Tassel sisters have now made 12 balloon ascents
and parachute descents, and despite the manner in which
their Sunday show has been denounced by the churches,
a Brisbane missionary named Stewart has joined as
“ talker.” By the way, Major Des Voeux denies that he
knelt when he presented that bouquet to Miss Van Tassel
at Townsville, and also denies that he presented a Ixmquet
to her, though he handed her one. Anyhow he got the
best of the fellow who purchased the flowers. The Col.
Sec. (Q.) stopped the Charters Towers balloon ascent, and
will possibly interdict the proposed Sunday ascents in
Brisbane. Now the point to be considered is whether
ballooning is a legitimate amusement or not. It . cer-
tainly has not killed so many people as football, as a
contemporary points out, and if it be a pleasant and
wholesome recreation for onlookers, then is Sunday the
fittest day in the week for its performance. Those who
object to it because, a woman runs the risk are simp!)
silly; tha life of a, woman is not so much more valuable
than that of a pfan, and bravery not being accounted a
specially fetpj'nine quality, it is no crime to foste. it.
“ Dagonet,” in the Referee lately, showed that every
drama, comedy, opera and farce of note, being played in
London at the time of writing, was either of American
origin or adapted from the French.
Mine. Armstrong Melba who sang before the Queen at
Windsor Castle lias been highly complimented by
Victoria, who gave her a superb jewelled brooch.
Some time ago a young American prima donna re-
fused to obey the Royal mandate. “But you can’t
refuse, it’s a command,” said the manager. “Can’t
I,” said the Yankee singer, “even if they dragged mo
there they couldn’t make me sing a note, and it’s as much
as the old lady’s throne’s worth to do that.”
Mr. St. Vincent West, the Hallos’ indefatigable advance
now in Brisbane, has worked up the booking tremen-
dously for the Brisbane season, which promises to hum.
As a rule the average Bananaman likes his music largely
diluted by salmon-pink trunks and tan-colored wigs, anil
perhaps when he finds that Lady Halle hasn’t a bold bad
eye and a six-inch skirtlet he will howl for his money
back. The Brisbane season commences on 9th hist.
Mrs. Potter writes to the Melbourne press to protest
against statements of her ill-health for she never was
better in her life.
We are glad to learn that the pig-headed boy- a mon-
strosity for some time on show—died lately in Geelong
Infirmary.
It is said that “The Lord Mayor,” a play written by
Charles Bradley, an Australian author, has been accepted
for London Royal Comedy.
Martin Simonsen’s English and Comic Opera Company
has been showing in Wagga Oddfellows’ Hall to good
houses.
Issie Spring, the child piano-performer, goes to England
for education. The A.N.A. assist.
Frank Clark appears at Sydney Gaiety on 14th July, in
a Hibernian-Yankee comedy called “Irish Aristocracy,”
assisted by the Harvey Brothers and M. E. Gilbert.
An American paper severely calls “ Faust Up To Date ’
a dramatised file of London Punch.
Tenor Campanini has had a small tumour removed from
his throat. Probably the doctors have also removed a
large gathering from his bank-account.
One of Colonel Ochiltree’s friends—the kernel is one of
the old hickories of New York-has written his epitaph
thusly ; “ Here lies Thomas Ochiltree. He never did any-
thing else.”
Mrs. Lydia Leavitt, author of “Around the World,”
“ Bohemian Society,” who while touring the globe gave
readings in Australia, has accepted a position as lady
representative of the Tillotsoh Newspaper Literature
Syndicate.
Dear Bulletin,— You wish to be correct, I know. In re
your last—Mr. Coppin is mistaken. Mrs. Herman Vezin
(formerly Mrs. Charles Young) was a Miss Thomson,
daughter of Mr. and Mrs. Thomson, lessees of Victoria
Theatre, Campbell-street,' Hobart. There were three
daughters, all on the stage : Mrs. Charles Jones, wife of
C. Jones, silversmith, Liverpool-street, Hobart, and once
treasurer of Prince of Wales Theatre, Sydney; second
daughter married Mr. Charles Young, tobacconist, actor,
dancing-master, &c., Hobart; and the third, Mr. Medmer
Goodwin, son of proprietor of Launceston Chronicle
(Tas.)-J.S.G.
Henry Bracy denies that he is about to stage-manage
“The Gondoliers” for Williamson and Garner’s Melbourne
production of that opera. H. B. intends to reorganise
his lately-disbanded opera company and produce “The
Old Guard” and other operatic enormities should every-
thing eventuate as he wishes. £l5OO were the profits on
the five-week opera season just terminated at Brisbane.
“ The Great Barry O’Neil ” has hitched himself to a
widow who runs a palatial “ pub.” in Madras, and “ the
goose hangs high ” accordingly.
The Taylpr-Carrington Dramatic Company commences
an overland tour from Sydney to Melbourne this week.
A local theatrical manager, seeing so many colonial
actors out of harne.ss, suggests that benefits should he
given on their behalf at least twice yearly. These benefits
are extended to prosperous strangers'; therefore, why
not to our own unfortunates ?
Johnny Sheridan has been doing the Northern
theatrical circuit with great success ; he broke the record
at Maitland.
At Poverty Point.
A literary friend of Kyrie Bellew exhumes an occasion
when he gave readings to a select party of friends, in a
side-room at Melbourne Public Library, to decide whether
he should go on the stage, and the verdict was unanimous
—that he hadn’t the ghost of a show. Critics, they say,
included Haddon, Neild, Jas. Smith, Marcus Clarke and
Talo, so poor Kyrie went home as third mate.
The production of “ at the Melbourne
Royal, was obviously meant to take the wind out of the
sails of the other racing drama, “Nowadays,” with W
Rignold, at the Opera House.
E. W. Royce writing of his Gaiety experiences under
John Hollingshead, reputed a close man, says that this
manager, out of pure generosity, allowed him £l5 a week
throughout a year’s illness, which looked as if it would be
mortal.


Wolfe’s Schnapps—for the liver and kidneys.
If out of sorts try Wolfe’s Schnapps.
Wolfe’s Schnapps cheers the mind and body.
Everybody now-a-days drinks W olfe’s Schnapps.
STAMPS FOR COLLECTIONS.
150 choice Foreign, all different, including Haiti, Heligoland, Bulgaria, Bolivar, St. Lucia,
Panama, etc., post free, ss. 2d.; 50 different Australian, Fiji, Samoa and Tonga, ss. 2d., post free.
Price List of Stamps, Albums, etc., gratis. High prices paid for old Australian Stamps (1850 to 1860
issues), or old collections of any kind.
D . A. VINDIN <Sc CO., Foreign Slump ami Coin Depot,
11 Victoria Arcade, Elizabeth Street, SYDNEY; amp at HAMBURG,
Buy Wolfe’s Schnapps by the bottle.
Mind you get Wolfe’s Schnapps.
Wolfe’s Schnapps for lowness of spirits.
Ask for Wolfe’s Schnapps and take no other.
fl, SAUNDERS,
Watches and Jewellery are like good wives—they are
worth having,
end for Illustrated Price List. Post Free.
813 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
(Nearly opposite Railway Station).
Factories: Livbrpooij and London, England.
£2 10s. English Lever, Two Years’ Guaranteed.
£3 10s. English Lever, “The Unequalled,” full cap.
£4 English Lever, “The Special,” compensated
20/- The Unequalled Keyless Watch. 20/-
Country Residents and Visitors to Sydney call or send
to A. SAUNDERS, 813 George Street (nearly opposite
Railway Station), SYDNEY.
THE PROBLEM OF POVERTY.
SECOND ARTICLE.
Dear Bulletin, — In yours of 11th January,
I worked out this problem as a world-wide one,
and arrived at the result that some men must be
poor as long as the world does not produce enough
to give all a share. I said that the remedy lay in
increased production, and the way to increase pro-
duction was to make all idlers turn to and “graft.”
In a word, to abolish the middle-man.
Every man is, in a sort, a hero in his own little
tinpot way, and my article has disclosed so
many apathetic obesities, who implore me to let
them go on living by what they call distribution,
that I do not propose at present to show you how
to abolish them. I prefer to limit my problem
now to one community—let us say N.S.W. —and
show you how in this special case (in mathematics
you, who talk familiarly of cissoids, will know
what special cases are) a very simple solution can
be got. But let us clearly first understand our
problem. The trouble is, that the ordinary
man, who dwells in a Sydney street, finds his
work, place it as he may, command a wage
which will only purchase shelter, food and cloth-
ing. Mark you, he has his stomach full, and his
body warm. But he would be grateful to anyone
—even me—who would show him how to get a
wage which would purchase twice as much. That
is all one problem. In face of the fact that
millions (elsewhere) live on what threepence a day
will purchase, it is extravagantly absurd for the
“ unemployed ” to say he cannot live like a fight-
ing cock on two shillings a day. In face of the
fact that female servants can’t be got for love or
money, it is mischievously false to say that young
people can’t get a comfortable home in exchange
for their labour; if they crowd into sweaters’ dens
it is because they like the strong air laden with
organic matter, the daily contact with their un-
washed mates, the ribald talk, the frequent beer-
jug.
# # *
Now, in attacking our problem we must
ask first what makes it a special case ? How does
N.S.W. differ economically from India, England,
Austria, &c. ? Mind you, I am going to confine
myself rigidly to the economic problem—l am not
going to deal in sentimental considerations. What
moral or social results may follow I shall not at
present discuss. Obviously, New South Wales is
young, and has advanced in garnered wealth by
leaps and bounds. How can we use this fact as a
lever to enable labour to make its own terms with
capital ? We must not kill the goose that lays the
golden eggs ; capital we must have always with us,
and continually exploit it. Surely the solution is
now obvious ?
Limit the population. Issue “ Colonists’
Rights ” or diplomas of citizenship to all human
beings in the colony. Say there are a million.
Issue 200,000 more for State use ; and enact that
no more be issued for three years. These “ Rights”
would be transferable, saleable, hypothecable,
devisable, much the same as land is at present.
Any person found without one would be enslaved,
deported, or, in the last resource, chloroformed.
Any man convicted of felony or lunacy would lose
his “ Right ” or have it held for him by the Public
Trustee. Persons desiring to enter the colony
would hire a “Right.” Persons leaving it would
seller lease their “Right.” As to the unborn,
the matter would be simple. Probably every
man who was married at the time the system
was adopted would be granted one free right
should he beget a child within three years. After
this, married folk would have to purchase “Rights ”
for their offspring, or cease to have them, or leave
the province. There can be no question that the
wealth of N.S. Wales would go on increasing. The
system would not stop that. But the supply of
labour being limited, and the market for our
produce being ungluttable, labour could make its
own terms. When on account of the high wages,
' ‘ Rights ” fetched at auction so high a price that
it seemed desirable to sell some, an Act would be
passed increasing the legal population by, say,
50,000, and these new “Rights” would be auc-
tioned, thus rendering taxation almost nil.
Customs duties there would be none. If more
money were wanted, I would have an accurate
State register of land, and ask in respect of every
section, every three years, how much it had in-
creased in value and why ? If its increase seemed
due to money spent on it by the owner, well and
good. But if its increase, or a part of it, seemed
due to the general advance of civilisation, then I
would confiscate one-half of such unearned incre-
ment.
The colony would gradually become one vast
machine for producing wool, meat, and perhaps
certain minerals. High wages would be paid,
and the millions outside who envied its prosperity
would simply be told : “ Colonists’ rights are now
valued at £2OO. That is the exact measure of the
superiority of N.S.W. over England. If you
want to come and share our wealth, thereby, of
course, lowering the current wages, come by all
means; but you must either buy a ‘ Right ’or
lease one at, say, £3O a year.” It will, of course,
be clear that, apart from any legalised increase in
population, there would, for a time, be plenty of
“ Rights ”on sale. Every man’s “ Right ” could
be attached for debt ; and, if sold, the debtor
would have to clear out, or be enslaved till he had
earned a passage to some other country. Hence
no insolvents would exist. Every man who took
to drink, gambling, or other dissolute courses
would eventually sell his “ Right” and clear out
with the proceeds. Every man who was a trifle
thick-headed and slow-going would be tempted to
sell his Right; he would depart and be replaced by
a quicker-witted man from outside.
You will probably ask first how all this agrees
with my previous article. What, I reply, have I
to do with that ? I approach Truth from various
sides; I never see Her more than partially ; two
glimpses never do agree ! Or, if you like, take
this ; In my system, the middle-man, the non-
worker, would abolish himself. There would be
a development of monopolies, trusts, combinations,
and country stores would become men-agencies of
wholesale firms, stocking little and selling chiefly
on commission from illustrated lists. Then vou
will ask how I propose to abolish, as I promised,
the millionaires. I reply that this is not an
economic question. However, I will say that a
spirit of kinship would grow up, an intense esprit
dc corps comparable to that once existing in little
Greek Republics, which would induce wealthy men
to found great endowments. Read the original
John Jacob Astor’s words uttered in 1840, when
he was. worth 30 million dollars :
“ The houses, wares, ships, and farms which I own,”
exclaimed the over-burdened Croesus who died in 1848,
“ and have to take care of, are for the accommodation of
others. I can do nothing with my income but buy more
land, build more houses, and lend money on mortgage for
the convenience of borrowers. In short, I, like you, am
found with the necessaries of life, and more than that I
cannot get out of my money. Meantime my labour is in-
cessant, and I know no peace by night or day.”
Suppose that man to be one of a band of brothers,
who lived better, worked better, and thought
better, than any other million men in creation.
Would he have hesitated for a moment’to endow
this and that great public object with a million or
so ? The man was no fool, but he preferred to
leave his money to the heirs of his body, rather
than to devote it to objects which would benefit
every vermin-laden immigrant who crawled in to
reduce wages.
You will further ask whether my proposed crea-
tion of a million “ Rights,” each worth (at the out-
set) say, £5O, is not economically absurd? Why not
issueSOmillions worth of paper-money and divideit?
To this I reply : When you once limit the popula-
tion, you acquire the power of hypothecating the
unearned increment. You give labour the power
to exploit capital, and consequently the power has
an immediate money-value. The time would come,
no doubt, when it was more profitable to maintain
the current rate of wages than to authorise an in-
crease of population. Suppose an authorised popu-
lation of one million, and “Rights ” selling at £2OO
each. It would pay to increase them. Suppose a
population of five millions, and “Rights” worth
only £5O. Better remain stationary. I have not
entered into the international difficulties that
would arise. The experiment would be so inter-
esting that I believe England would not actively
interfere. As to other countries I cannot see why
they should trouble their heads. For a certain
time, with “ Rights ” at £5O to £BO, leave to reside
could be got by hiring a “Right” at, say, £lO a
year, or 4s. per week. No immigrant with any
access to the ear of his sovereign would feel that!
Finally, I must show why this plan is not suit-
able for England, or, in fact, for any place except
an Australian colony, or
perhaps a portion oi
Canada. Older countries
manufacture and must
have cheap labour in
order to compete in
neutral markets. If you
reduced the population of
England to two millions,
the plan would work. Shu
would till the soil and
manufacture only special-
ties that would be profit-
able even with wages at
10s. a day. Probably
some such will readily
occur to you. But to
attempt to reduce the
population' would prac-
tically mean two millions
endeavouring to efface
thirty-five, in order to
share their wealth, not a
very practicable thing. If
England could resolutely
deport two millions of her
worst citizens every year,
she could manage it in
17 years. But during
this time, the strain on
the national temper and
resources would be so in-
tense that a complete
breakdown would be in
evitable. It is also ques-
tionable whether she
would not fall a prey to
one of the huge military
powers.
I can hardly be ex-
pected to seriously dis-
cuss the position of affairs
if the experiment suc-
ceeded and were widely
imitated. It would ap-
pear as if all men who
had sold their “Rights,”
or had them seized for
debt, must be painlessly
killed, for there would be
nowhere to deport them
to. But in practice I
do not fear this. In
cases of incurable sick-
ness, lunacy, dipsomania,
and the like, euthanasia
might be practised. In
others, probably a mild
form of penal servitude,
the sexes being separated,
would do. If even s
large percentage were
*Sr'°
*
AN OFFICIAL
LIQUI DATOP^
I ts //\
N\ ED I tat I ON
fd
so held in bondage, their lot would be happier
than that of the enormous army of paupers
who now disgrace England. There would be no
difficulty in persuading them to do work to
value of, say, ten shillings per week, and that
would allow them to have good food, warm
beds, leisure, and even a little tobacco and beer.
Being kept celibate, their type would grow ex-
tinct, and, after a time, it would be so uncommon
to find a man with any sort of merit unable to
produce his “ Right ” that such a man would, if
really decent, command sympathy, just as a
young widow now does if left destitute, and a
fund would be raised to buy him a “ Right ” and
hold it in trust for him for a few years until he
had evinced his capacity to hold it.
W. F. HOWLETT.
Makaretu, Waipawa, New Zealand.
The good people of Sunderland, England,
taught an elderly hedger to read, and the good
clergyman came round and saw the aged pupil’s
wife. “ I trust he is able now to read his holy
Bible.” “Oh, sir, he is far past that—he reads
the Pkrleece News.”
The disabling of the pilot schooner at Port
Phillip Heads, a few days ago, raises again the
question of a steam pilot service for Melbourne.
Vested interests alone prevent such a consumma-
tion. The pilots, like Sheffield knife-grinders,
want to keep their calling dangerous, for their
earnings are large, and they have managed to
choke off all attempts to have another schooner
laid on, the shipowners not being considered in
the matter at all. Men are anxious to go in to the
pilot service, but the disabling of a schooner puts
all the shipping in jeopardy. These pilots have
as close a borough as the lawyers.
The Professional and Literary men of London
give their preference to Esterbkook’s “ Relief ”
Pen. It is a swift and easy writer, and preserves
the characteristics of the hand. Samples free at
all Stationers.
Is Lying Justifiable?
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
Let us hear less about the immorality of
lying. What is a lie ?—A means towards an end.
Provided that the end be a desirable one, the
means are only censurable when attended with
non-success. A badly-designed, inartistic, palpable
lie rightly receives punishment, just as much as the
failure of anything else in creation. The fact is, lies
require classification. They may be divided into
four species: The equivocation, the suppressio veri,
the suggestio falsi, and the lie deliberate. Some
persons imagine that equivocating, simulating, or
dissembling is not lying. These are the loudest in
their denunciations of the robust, straight-from-
the-shoulder liar, and yet they are all in the same
boat. What are the objects in view when a man
lies? — 1. Self-preservation. 2. Benefit to another,
3. Benefit to oneself. 4- Injury to another. The
first two are justifiable means towards a necessary
end ; the latter are not so. Expediency justifies
deviation from exactitude. Assuming that a
ship's true course is marked by a direct line on the
chart, it is ridiculous to argue that, in the event of
an iceberg coming to meet it, the helmsman is not
to turn aside from a matter of principle. Truth,
omnipotence, and omniscience are all the ideals
towards which progressive humanity should tend,
but the evolutionary stages towards that end
render immorality and morality indefinite in
nature and fluctuating in description according to
daily exigencies. What is a wrong to-day may
be a right to-morrow, and vice versa. The further
humanity ad in the social and moral scale, the
less will lying be rendered justifiable. The remedy
for the removal of liars consists in making the
members of society so wise and potent that a lie
is never required, or if uttered would at once be
detected. At present we have not yet attained a
sufficiently high standard of development to dis-
pense with it. It is undesirable for people living
in glass houses to throw stones, and every living
individual on the face of the globe is more or less
a liar, as is also collectively every nation.
* * ' *
The missions of ambassadors who lie for
the good of their countries are proverbial, and all
religious sects lie unblushingly, as do also lawyers,
doctors, philanthropists ct hoc genus omnc, and
they do so if not directly at least by implication.
When a clergyman is furtively admiring the yel-
low-haired girl opposite to him on the tramoar
over the edge of his newspaper, but gammons to be
on the look-out for a certain church on the other
side of the road, he is dissimulating and lying by
his actions. The lawyer who knows himself to be
fighting a losing case is not honest enough to con-
fine himself to the enumeration of actual facts in
his client’s affairs, but throws out hints intended
to mislead the jury and imbue them with false ira;
pressions. The doctor who lies by looking wiser than
wisdom is actually attainable by mankind, when a
patient asks him concerning his chance of recovery
often deems it expedient to lie in his reply ; and
the soldier who arranges his forces on the eve of
battle into proportions calculated to deceive the
enemy as to his true numerical strength and who
further inyites_ them cunningly to walk over a
hidden mine is not remarkably truthful as a
general. And as regards commercial men, every
department of trade is saturated with misrepre-
sentations and concealments until one ‘ * shadows
oneself ” to think of them.
# * *
The ends sought by the liar have been
classified into four—two of which are j ustifiable,
and two of which are contemptible. To lie for
one’s personal benefit, in order to make money, to
advance one’s social position and self-aggrandise-
ment by false statements, is wrong. To lie for
motives of revenge or to harm a fellow-creature is
equally so. To lie about matters of general and
not personal interest is most immoral, as is also
to record as true historical or scientific fictions
when no earthly benefit can accrue to anyone
thereby. This is simply deceiving posterity, which
relies upon the veracity of its progenitors when
determining its own means of continuing the
march towards universal progress. A great deal
of ancient history is distorted, misrepresented
and absolutely false, but the nearer we approach
modern times the less does this proportion pre-
dominate. The way to destroy falsehood is by so
increasing the knowledge of man generally that a
falsehood will never obtain belief, and until that
happens lies will always be current. Modern
historical statements are capable of being better
tested because knowledge is more general and
comprehensive, and we now have various methods
of collation and comparison of the facts presented
to us for belief. Never assume a statement to be
true unless your reason also inclines you towards
adopting that belief, and then the opportunities
of the liar, also of the professional theologian, will
have less scope. Of course, it is inadvisable to
continually go about protected by the armour of
suspicion, just as it would be absurd to carry a gun
to a friend’s wedding-party in case a riot might
ensue. Moreover, you might protect yodrself
as much against truth as falsehood ; but when-
ever you deem it of sufficient moment to warrant
a scrutiny into an alleged fact be prepared to test
it by your reasoning faculties.
* * *
The little social deceptions of every a»y are
harmless and indispensable. If a person ask you
whether you consider him a fool or a monster of
ugliness it would not be either polite or humane
to reply in the affirmative. Your reason should
inform you that these little queries are to be taken
only for what they are worth. And as regards
self-preservation, just as it is necessary to inflict
bodily pain on a sufferer when cutting off a limb
to save a life, so is an outrage on truth legitimate
when your option is required between the lesser
and greater evil. If you are confronted by a how-
ling religious maniac, who, flourishing a knife
over your head, demands your coincidence with
his especial views or a declaration to the contrary,
should you reply truthfully it may condemn
you to immediate death. It would be foolish to
stick at a falsehood when it would save your life.
If you were seated in a train which was, in all
probability, about to meet with a collision and a
lady affected with heart-disease asked you whether
anything was the matter, would you be
justified in telling her the exact truth ?
Lastly, in this case. Presuming that you
had a bosom friend of upright character and
that you yourself were equally honourable, and
that you relied on each other’s word in preference
to that of anyone else in the world, let the follow-
ing hypothetical dilemma arise. Your friend
leaves home for awhile and in his absence his wife
(of whom he is morbidly jealous) is entrapped into
an assignation with a former admirer, but
in thorough ignorance of the identity of the
person whom she is about to meet. Accidentally
you discover the whole affair and are acquainted
with the facts of her innocence in fulfilling the
appointment into which she had been decoyed,
and also that as soon as she found out her error
she indignantly repulsed any communication with
the person who fraudulently procured her pre-
sence. Subsequently her husband re' urns home
and somehow or other hears that his wife has met
her former lover in his absence. Maddened by
drink he whips out a revolver and is.about to shoot
her when you chance to come into the room. For
an instant only your entry interrupts his intention.
Grasping the situation, you ask what is the matter.
Your friend, keeping you at a distance, details
his grievance. You reply that his information was
false. He replies that, believing you before any-
one else, he will believe you if you will pledge your
honour as a man that you know that his wife
never met the man at all; otherwise, he will kill
his wife and himself afterwards. You swear that
his wife met you by appointment and not another
man, and he accepts your exculpatory explana-
tion. Here you save an innocent woman and pre-
vent a suicide and murder by a lie. This lie is
one of expediency, and yet some people will have
it that to tell the truth was the proper course. Let
such be threatened with instant death, and let
them place their lives in your hands and then let
us see whether their opinions would alter ? Bah J
JUNOR.
ain’t it sickening !
A big retail drapery firm doing business
in Sydney has had a private meeting of creditors
in London.
The backs of the Sydney tram-tickets teh
us ivhat we all knew before—that Roberts’ Hotel
is the best place on earth to get a good drink.
Insist upon having Wolfe’s Schnapps.
It is said that the Princess of Wales uses a
cosmetic, which (she is nearly 50) keeps her com-
plexion as smooth in texture and as delicate as
that of a school-girl. It will also stand the test of
sunshine and the electric-light, the scrutiny of a
lorgnette, and seems warranted not to rub off
with a handkerchief or to crack when traversed by
a smile.
Bismarck, who is still swearing in his
retirement, says that Germany has been swindled
over the Heligoland exchange. The rampant old
gentleman is right. Heligoland is gradually
vanishing into the depths of the restless sea, and if
the Fatherland had waited long enough—2000
years or so—the matter would have settled itself,
for the troublesome island is only a temporary
affair, at the best. But then Bismarck himself
had never patience enough to wait for anything,
and considering the explosive condition he is in
and the galvanic exhibition he has made of himself
lately, he has no business to object even if Caprivi
has been in rather too great a hurry.


ELECTRIC” SOAP
IS THE
Greatest Labour Saver
OE THE AGE.
The wash done in half the time, and
better, by its use.
Buy Wolfe’s Schnapps by the bottle.
If your liver troubles you take Wolfe’s Schnapps.
BUGGIES, BUCKBOAEDS,
—AND—
VICTORIAS,
At MANUFACTURERS* PRICES.
Send for Catalogues and Prices to
THE F. B. WHEELER CO.,
265 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
Personal Items.
The estate of Mr. Wood, Essie Jenyns’
father-in-law, cleaned up £122,000 nett.
Queen Victoria now refuses to receive the
titled ladies who have taken to the millinery busi-
ness.
G. R. Sims writes that Stanley has crowned
his achievements in Africa by discovering God
there.
Stanley’s intended, Miss Dorothy Tennant,
is quite old enough to marry. She was 33 last
birthday.
Archibald Meston says that the word kan-
garoo in the Endeavour River lingo means big-toe
and big-toe only..
Millionaire Carnegie, in his days of ram*
pant radicalism, wrote that “ the man who die B
rich dies damned.”
Spofforth has, we see, become an English
gentleman. Spofforth is, therefore, not an Aus-
tralian gentleman.
The latest knight of Windsor is Captain
the Hon. Frederick Nathaniel Fiennes Twistleton-
Wykeham-Fiennes !
Dan Mayne, of Bathurst Sentinel, has
lost his horse, Liberte. However, his old horse,
License, is still alive.
Brockhaus, the great Leipsic publisher,
has arranged to bring out F min Pasha’s version of
tho Stanley business.
M ichaul Davitt has a splendid hand to
deal in his new paper The Labour World. Ho
will publish Figott’s diary.
Thomas Moore, alias the Warrior, an old
soldier, died lately in Gulgong (N.S.W.) Hospital.
Not one attended the funeral.
At latest dates the King of the Belgians
had arrived in London, and dozens of ballet-girls
were in a flutter of expectation.
The portrait of Dorothy Tennant, the
prospective Mrs. Brigand Stanley, shows a chubby
face, rather like Oliver Goldsmith’s.
Sergeant-Major Webster, the victim of
red tape and a N.S.W. court-martial, is now chief
officer of an intercolonial steam-boat.
One sentence in a late speech by Gladstone
was timed to last five minutes, equal to a third of
a column of solid matter of the Times.
Mrs. Johnson James, who recently created
such a sensation on Melbourne concert platforms,
is the wife of an Adelaide sharebroker.
Sir Charles Halle was formerly music-
master to the children of Louis Philippe, who was
at one time tolerated as king in France.
Lydia Von Finkelstein’s bridegroom is a
half-caste gentleman with a ready-made family so
extensive as to suggest a lecture-audience.
Quite a scandal was created in Paris
through Wales’ treatment of his sister Louise and
her husband during their stay in that city.
D’Arcy, the Rockhampton solicitor, who
owns a third of Mount Morgan, draws therefrom,
when the mine feels good, £40,000 a month.
Col. Roberts, of the N.S.W. Permanent
Artillery, is a brother of Col. “Ben.” Roberts, a
well-known London Commissioner of Police.
Just after the funeral of the late King-of
Portugal the Duke of Edinburgh fell in an
epileptic fit and dreadfully disfigured his face.
The German Emperor visited Stettin
lately, but did not get such a good reception
there as an eminent Socialist just let out of gaol.
Perhaps the best Shakespearian scholar in
Sydney is George Webber, the Inspector to tho
Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
A frisky old millionaire from Melbourne,
70 years of age, got married in Adelaide the other
day. Queerly enough, the blushing bride is over
fifty.
Every private detective in Sydney seems
to have been engaged on the Tichborne case,
either for or against the claimant. The Bulletin
smiles.
Says Editor Hoolan, of the Mundio
Miner: “The desecration of the Masonic Lodge
by W.M. Bro. was successfully accom-
plished. ”
“ The man was found not guilty of the
charge on which he was convicted.” —Words of
wisdom, by Postmaster-General O'Connor, vol. 3,
page 511.
Tummy is getting back to his old form,
apparently. We hear of him presiding at a
duchess’s smoking-party until 4 o’clock in the
morning.
“ Bury me without any display,” said
Champion Sculler Searle. He didn’t say : “ Have
a lawsuit with the doctor and fight the under-
taker’s bill. °
The approaching marriage at Melbourne is
announced of “the great-grand-nephew of Hogarth,
the famous painter, of Chiswick, England.”
Stupendous!
What’s in a name 1 E. T. Smith, an
English temperance-lecturer, is now crusading in
Adelaide. About the wealthiest Adelaide brewer
is Sir E. T. Smith !
There was one thing which absolutely en-
deared Mr. William Pullman to a large, hard-
working and underpaid class of men. He was so
beastly civil to the Press.
“ Captain Baldwin, it is said, lately offered
£45,000 for the plant and goodwill of the Wel-
lington (N.Z.) Post; but the Blundells said it
wasn’t for sale at that figure.”
According to] a newspaper - paragraph,
“ Bob ” Lowe (Lord Sherbrooke) is now utterly
broken-down in mind and body. He is blind, and
has to be led about by his wife.
Chief Justice Way, of South Australia,
sometimes rises at 8 a.m. and unceasingly studies
the law-reports till midnight to keep himself
abreast of the world’s legal information.
Prince Albert Victor of Wales has made
up his little mind to marry Princess Victoria of
Teck. And Victoria of Teck has made up her
mind to be Queen of England. So there !
Another N.S.W. member of Parliament is
in the divorce-court and has had to pay in £l5O to
feed his wife’s lawyers. £l5O in such a matter
will merely provide legal oysters before dinner.
Canterbury Hutchinson, M.P., of Divorce
Court celebrity, voted for the N.S.W. Assembly
being opened with prayer. It is always wise to
strike a good average. Few men can afford to be
frivolous all round.
Charles Day, one of the proprietors of
S. A. Register, has retired from that paper. He
started as office-boy, and left with a pot of money.
A former proprietor, Joseph Fisher, started and
left in the same way.
A woman in that Melbourne workhouse,
the oddly-named Immigrants’ Home, claims to be
120 years old, and was visited the other day by a
queer mixture of Lady Hopetoun, Lady Clarke,
and the Hallelujah Band.
“Sammy ” Beddome, tho Adelaide police-
magistrate, goes to America to find a long-lost
brother. Mr. Beddome was a policeman when he
first troi Adelaide, but Broke i Hill dividends
have cheered him in his old age.
A hard-up Adelaide broker purchased for
a client a thousand Centrals at 11s. The client
defaulted, and tho shades were thrown on the
hands of the broker, who ultimately sold them on
his own account for £4,000 profit.
It is stated that Pritchard Morgan ob-
tained for himself £120,000 of tho capital sub-
scribed for the Morgan (Welsh) Gold-Mining Co.,
now in d fficulties. However, he appears to be in
no way blamed by the shareholders.
Viscount Hampden, ex-Speaker of the
British Commons, is now in the provision business
and stamps his butter-pats with a coronet. The
present N.S.W. Speaker is also in the butter-
trade, but, unfortunately, he lacks the powerful
“ ONE TOUCH OF NATURE” ETC.
TRAVELLER: “I SAY, BOSS, IS THERE ANY EMPTY HUT A COVE COULD
CAMP IN TO-NIGHT? IT LOOKS LIKE RAIN.”
SQUATTER: “WELL, YES. THERE’S THE CHINAMEN’S HUT DOWN
THERE; YOU CAN DOSS WITH THEM IF THEY’LL LET YOU-I
DON’T OBJECT.”
draw of a trade-mark coronet, and has not yet
thought of stamping his official wig upon every
pound of bald-headed butter.
A temperance lecturer asserts that In-
ventor Murdoch, who discovered the value of gas
for lighting purposes, was a Cornishman. Now
Murdoch, manager for Robert Stephenson, was
born at Auchlinleck, Scotland, and died at Bir-
mingham.
Pilley, sen., of the notorious Melbourne
law case, was a victim of “Jack the Ripper” in
this way : Pilley, who used to be a tax-collector in
London, acquired some snug Vitechapel proputty,
but the Ripper reduced rents all over the district
to a minimum.
R. L. Stevenson writes to Robert Bonnor
and Sons from Sydney that his story for the
Ledger “ has something of a Monte Cristo flavour,
being the tale of an abominable crime and a sin-
gular vengeance. . . The incidents are strange,
and so are the characters. ”
Mr. T. G. Dangar, M.P. for the Namoi,
N.S.W., who died last week, was a kindly old
man who said little but got a culvert put agin the
door of every constituent. His prospective suc-
cessor, Mr. Roadandbridge Collins, is expected to
continue the good work.
Says George Francis Train:—“There is
going to be a revolution throughout the world
directly; the signs are unmistakeable, and I am
going to bo Dictator. lam a Socialist, Atheist,
and every other ‘ ist ’ that is objectionable, as well
as a Fenian. There you have me.”
Of the Bar engaged in the Premier Per-
manent case, Coldham has the biggest head,
Donovan has the longest beard, Neighbor is the
best-looking, R. W. Smith is the shortest, Bryan
O’Loghlen is the baldest and stoutest, Purves is
the coolest—and gets the most pars.
Stead goes ahead swimmingly with his
wonderful sixpenny Review of Reviews, and a
direct imitator is launched in Paris. Stead, with
characteristic originality, writes that the latter is
better than his own. He claims a circulation of
60,000 monthly, and means to run it up to 100,000.
POLITICAL POINTS
The Canadian Government gives 100 acres
of land to all parents of 11 children, and over,
Mormons excepted.
Republicans should support the Queens-
land Separation movement, for it will give them a
solid Republican district.
The Victorian Liberation Society, under
the Presidency of Judge Williams, is taking
active measures in the campaign for Sunday open-
ing of libraries.
The Orange organisation in N. S. Wales
corresponds to “Tammany” in New York, though
the latter was understood to be controlled by the
opposition faction.
England offers Sunkim to Italy in exchange
for the Somali coast. We can see. John Bull
standing in front of King Humbert with a bagful
of wild cats in his hand.
Melbourne tradesmen begin to advertise
prices in dollars. This is a sign of the times. How
long before our Australian currency is Ameri-
canised and Oanadaised ?
Henniker Heaton has put himself in
charge of the North 'Queensland Separation move-
ment in the Commons. He is probably the
cleverest engineer in that assembly.
N.S. Wales is going to make a railway to
Broken Hill, and now Adelaide has formed a ring
among the local mines, &c., to secure for the S.A.
railways all Broken Hill carriage for eight years.
The London telegraph-clerks explain that
they didn’t mean any disrespect for the Queen
when they hissed her. Cheers for the Queen don’t
amount to a row of pins. But hisses come from the
heart.
Spain has expended six millions sterling
fortifying the Pyrenees against France, which
holds out its Republican arms. The six millions,
squeezed from a poor nation, is all to bolster up
monarchy.
That the N.Q. Separation movement is
prompted by the nigger-labour interest is simply
untrue. “Why is it that not a single Northern
newspaper now supports coloured immigration ?”
asks the Townsville Herald.
David Dudley Field says there are six
problems before the American people, viz :
“ Honest government, woman suffrage, the negro
race, the rights of labor, the government of cities,
and the government of corporations.”
They have just had an election for a
vacancy in S.A. Legislative Council in which
there were but two candidates, both just about
seventy years old ! As the term of representation
is seven years, the lucky candidate will probably
be playing a harp ere his term runs out.
Dan O’Connor : “I would like to know
who the hon. member (Mr. Traill) is, and what
great movement he has ever been connected with?”
Mr. Traill (promptly): “The Irish question.”
The savagery of this answer will only be under-
stood in two places : in N.S.W. and on the Home
Rule benches of the Commons.
A writer in a Belgian review properly
shows that the hostility to the Jews nowadays is
not in any way religious, but wholly political. It
is prompted by their intense cliqueism and their
enormous accumulation of property, with an in-
breeding like that of the Rothsohildren. En-
lightened Jews themselves protest against the
evil. One read a trenchant paper in Melbourne
on this subject before the Jewish Association.
The millionaires of America have not
amassed their enormous wealth by the assistance
of Protection. Out of the fifty largest fortunes
in the States during the last ten years only one
has been derived from protected manufacturing.
All the others were acquired from railway and
telegraph investments, from real estate specula-
tions, from the import and sale of foreign goods,
from banking business, from stock-market booms,
from lucky mining ventures, from patented inven-
tions, and more than one was distilled from patent
medicines. Protection is a distributor of wealth.
it appears to be perfectly true that the
Hopeful prisoners were convicted before the
Queensland Supreme Court through the deliberate
suppression by certain officials of evidence in
favour of the accused. The present Government,
who hold this opinion, should follow their action
in releasing the prisoners to its logical conclusion
—the dismissal, with disgrace, of all who had a
hand in burking justice. No other such disgrace-
ful act has come to light for many years—save,
perhaps, the shameless juggle for stifling ihe
forgery prosecution against the “heroic” chief
witness in the blood-and-perjury-soaked Mount
Rennie case at Sydney.
In Victoria the total arrests have increased
by one-third in five years, and have grown quicker
than the population. Those for crimes against
property have increased in a similar proportion or
larger, the increase in burglary and robbery with
violence being a doubling in five years, showing
that the pressure of poverty is increasing. At
the same there is an enormous increase in rape,
assault on females, and unnatural offences, yet a
large decrease in the number of prostitutes known
to the police, "showing a great increase of poverty
among males ; and, finally, according to Hayter,
Government Statist, 1230 persons in 1888 and 1358
in 1887 were imprisoned in order to give them
medical attention, food, and shelter, in many
cases at their request, on account of their being
unable to obtain admission to charitable institu-
tions. Admitting that gaol treatment is not con-
ducive to health, it still shows that in most cases
prisoners had been weakened by misery before
being imprisoned, when, among 10,071 distinct
persons in prison during 1888, there were 3031
cases of sickness, four-fifths of which prevented
the patients from doing their prison tasks.
“Breakers Ahead!”
That cry has brought terror to many a stout
heart. A shipwreck is a frightful experience, to
hear the wind whistle, the timber creak and crash,
the cordage strain, the sailors swear and the
women scream, tremble and run hither and thither
like maniacs, is enough to appal the bravest heart.
Yet with all its terrors death by shipwreck is not
half so terrible as the slow and insidious course of
disease, which for the latter years of the stricken
one’s life, makes existence a misery, not only to
the victim but to all around him. With such
terrible facts staring us in the face, how careful
we should be to preserve that blessing of provi-
dence— health and strength. Note should be taken
of the first signs of disease. A simple headache is
an infallible sign that the liver and stomach are
disordered ; frequent toothache and neuralgia in-
dicate infallibly that the nervous system is be-
coming enervated ; that tired feeling is proof
positive that strength is failing. There are hun-
dreds of such symptoms which should have im-
mediate treatment. Clements Tonic fortifies the
blood and builds up nerve tissue ; it is the greatest
regulator of the system ever introduced, and
thousands of grateful sufferers testify to this fact.
For instance, Captain H. Dibden, Master Balmain
ferry boat, was for years an accute sufferer from
nervousness, debility and chronic dyspepsia. He
had recourse to Clements Tonic, which effectually
cured him. He says Balmain.—Dear Sir, —I
have much pleasure in giving my evidence in sup-
port of the value of Clements Tonic. For a long
time I suffered from indigestion and debility, and
tried many remedies with but little benefit. See-
ing Clements Tonic advertised, I tried it, and
after the first bottle I felt quite a change, and am
now a new man altogether, and shall be glad to
afford anyone further information if desired. And
Mrs. Woodlands, Port Macquarie, suffered from
sluggish liver, hsepatitis and dyspepsia. She
took three bottles Clements Tonic and the pain
was completely gone and perfect health restored.
She writes Port Macquarie, N.S.W.—Dear
Sir, —For many years I have been suffering from
very severe pain in the side and indigestion. I
tried all sorts of remedies and consulted many
medical men, but got no relief. I tried Clements
Tonic, and before I had taken three bottles the
pain in my side was completely gone, and I never
felt so well in my life before. And Mr. S. D.
Wood, Verger of All Saints Cathedral, Bathurst,
and a most reputable and respected citizen of
“the City of the Plains,” frankly endorses this
wonderful remedy. He says ; —Howick-street,
Bathurst, January 30th, 1890.—Dear Sir, —I have
lately been taking Clements Tonic with such
wonderful results that I am induced, as a matter
of justice, to send a plain statement of my case,
which you are at liberty to publish in the interest
of similar sufferers. For some years I have
suffered acutely from indigestion, giddiness,
languid tired feelings, no inclination for exertion,
humming noises in the ears—this symptom being
especially troublesome—and extreme lowness of
spirits. I tried many “cures” which did me no
good. I eventually used Clements Tonic, and
the second dose completely cured the noises in my
ears, and during recent attacks they were worse
than ever before, but, thanks to Clements Tonic,
before the first bottle was used my general health
was greatly improved, and I can truthfully state
that it is far superior to any other medicine I ever
took, and I honestly believe that all sufferers will
derive great and permanent benefit from its use.
All unpleasant feelings have entirely left me, and
I shall always use Clements Tonic when out of
sorts. It is a grand pick-me-up, and lam thank-
ful .that I gave it a trial. There can be doubt,
even in the most sceptical mind, after such proof
as this.
Advise your friends to drink Wolfe’s Schnapps.
The British foot-guards are being trained
to do duty in place of the London police, in view
of the latter striking. And who is going to play
policeman over the dissolute idol of the British
nurse-girl ?


“THE JAYNIAL DAN” —IN HIS TRUE COLOURS.


t\
JoiJßKir
, //v AID of Me
UNITE'D /
Or ATt 3
; F i<ffjuiA 4 *
AI P ''H'-'A j>,
' lyyi/iiKA
> y
f fee
£§o© Ifc
tocflL t^cu i Prf teffed-
rtal'O-rj Cou/zT //?
’ s"‘nu re 61 1 V
yei/e/- j£o#rst
Class / urr'H
TcdeCfur 7jo,r
fDT /C £> O- f
fatst /lot (a/JCL
c c njon 7
Ay-
V/'o 1 r
\ “T sawb
0 / \ .. 1
? uJ
fls/ifftcLnrj Tv. Um«7 V" f
.
irr )fyj
/Vficial
> J r 0 f ffie
\ „ e * br ayd? “I
? W ckr*/^
A NOVEL IDEA
The Government have hit upon a new idea to
prevent Chinese being smuggled into the
colony They have decidetfto have a photograph
taken of the Chinese employed on board the
vessels npon their arrival from China, hope
by this means to detect any stowaways thaMuay
turn up among them after the usual search has
beea made.
ty* is precisely
id? a rw€ 7 ? °
t£f
THE GLORIOUS FOURTH—ETCETERA.


For Sick Headache
USE horsford’s acid phosphate.
Dr. Jno. Lambe, M.R.C.S., West Villa, Shut-
dington, No. Cheltenham, says: “It produced
good results in sick headache and brain prostra-
tion, tranquillizing the irritation, giving com-
fortable sleep. Also in a case of dyspepsia, with
great distention after meals, and flatulency.”
Use Batho’s Baking Powder,
The Choicest Jewellery. Dahms & Co., King-st. Arcade
No medicine is more conscientiously prepared
more powerful, or more highly concentrated, than
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla. Its standard of excellence is
the result of careful study. The best blood-
purifier.
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
The SYDNEY DEPOSIT BANK,
90 —KING STREET—9O
Established 1885.
Agencies in London and throughout Australia.
Overdrafts granted against Deposit of Deeds,
and all the usual banking business transacted.
The following are the Rates of Interest allowed
for Fixed Deposits :
3 Years 9h per cent.
12 Months 81 per cent.
0 Months 7‘. per cent.
3 Months ... ... £»| per cent.
5 per cent, allowed on daily balance of current account.
For the past Four (4) Years a Bonus of One per
Cent, has been paid in addition to the above rates.
This is the first and only Bank in the Colonics
which divides its profits with its depositors.
Communications from the country will be
promptly attended to.
T. S. RICHARDSON,
General Manager.
w. H. PALING & COMPANY, LIMITED,
356 George Street, SYDNEY,
H AVE J A U Pian ° s r f ™“ th( ? celebrated Makers, Steinway, Erard, Uebel, Fenrich, Lipp, Ronisch, Eluthner, Collard,and others
Also of the wonderful Victor IPxaxxoa at £45 and Eatey Organs. No such Variety or Vafue elsewhere for Cash or Tkkms.
Society
While Melbourne Austral Salon goes
ahead like a cat on hot bricks and advertises
itself most vigorously, the Sydney Ladies’ Club
(located over the head-office of the A.J.S. Bank)
keeps its dooi’s strictly closed against anybody
with a note-book —suggesting thereby, of course,
that the proceedings are not adapted for publica-
tion. Beyond the fact that it has 100 members
little is known, for its meetings are held (probably
for the most excellent of reasons) strictly in camera.
However, our darkness will not long remain un-
enlightened. A hundred women can’t shut their
mouths for more than, say, three weeks, so we
must soon discover what the Club is stuffed with.
Maybe the same old jumble of whisky-and-soda,
peaxl-powder and “ easy ” boots.
* * #
Lady Carington will be “ at borne ” at
Government House, Sydney, Thursdays, July 17
and 31, at 3.30 o’clock. But Lady C. won’t feel
thoroughly at home until about January, next.
# * #
Here is the Governorship of N.S.W.
being hawked around, refused by all and sundry,
just like the bishoprics. Now Salisbury actually
goes on his marrow-bones to Loi’d Nozoo, im-
ploring him to accept N.S.W. ! And Nozoo says
“ kawn’t, weally.” The latest story from Eng-
land is that nobody looks upon the'post as desir-
able, inasmuch as Baron Carington has, during
his term of office, spent £GOOQ a year—or £30,000
in all-over and above his official salary. If he
has, we presume it has been entered up in the
“advertising-expenses” account. But, seriously,
the “ big ” Australian Governorships are not now
posts in which a man can save money out of his
salary. They are only calculated to serve the
purposes of magnat- s, who, after living at the
rate of £lOO,OOO a your, are in search of a cool spot
where, for a few years, they can drag out a
miserable existence, at say, £3OO a week.
# * *
The Bulletin has the impudence to assert
that Chief-Justice Darley and Mr. Justice Innes
ax - e wrong in their law in the M‘Leod bigamy
appeal decision and Judge Windeyer is right.
Saint M‘Leod has one chance left : he can appeal
to the Privy Council, but that would cost money,
and we don’t suppose either of his wives will cash
up. Nobody else has much interest in him.
* * *
Thepapers have carefully avoided reporting
Windeyer, J.’s nasty but, of course, unintentional
jibes against his learned bx-ethren in the course of
thejudgment aforesaid. His reference to some little
manual or other by one Hams, and the necessity
existent for the same being studied by - ex' —
persons practising at the—er— bar of this Court,
was especially calculated to make the Chief sit up.
The Bar are now saying that they consider Judge
Darley a fearful failure as Chief, that he nearly
always takes the wrong side on axx arguable point,
and that he studies his dignity too much to have
any time left to study his law.
* * *■
Marriage is a failure. So are widows.
Somewhere about two years ago a wealthy Scotch-
xnan of Melbourne met one of them at a friend’s
house, and loved her, and she loved him, and
they were married, and the infatuated husband
settled all his property on her, and then she died
in a mean, deceitful way, and bequeathed every-
thing to her brother, and the brother’s solicitor
wrote to the bereaved citizen telling him that
there was £3 Bs. due for two weeks’ rent of his
own house, which sum had better be paid
promptly if he didn’t want to be fired out into the
street. A cleaned-out citizen, whose addi’ess will
probably be in a boiler on the wharf, is now con-
sidering the matrimonial question from a new
standpoint.
# * #
On the morning that the news of the
death of B. N. Jones, acting-manager of Sydney
Theatre Royal, reached Melbourne, a certain lady
(great in the leg department) well-known on the
stage, was having a stormy inter.iew with an
equally well-known manager. The sad news pro-
vided an agreeable text t > the aggrieved fair one.
“Poor Jones taken and you left; well, that is
hard ! Anyway he has gone to heaven, but
you .” The manager was afterwards heard to
declare that the artiste in question should never
have another engagement even wex-e she starving.
Man proposes, however, but policy disposes. He
had forgotten all about the forthcoming visit of
Brown-Potter and Toole to Sydney, and is now
eating humble pie in large doses—also for expedi-
ency’s sake.
# ® #
In a Sydney suburb there is a lame man
who goes about by means of two crutches. He is
a most quai’relsome person, and constantly gets up
rows, in which he is always in the wrong ; then
when the other man goes to hit him he says :
“Coward! would you strike a Cripple?”—and
lays his opponent out with a “ biff ” in the stomach
with his crutch. He is “real handy” with the
crutch, and people have found that the only effec-
tive way to “counter” him is to stand off and
bombard him with blue metal.
* #
A charming little scandal is expected to
come before the courts as a sort of side-issue
shortly. The heroine is a pretty widow and the
hero is a judge who was not exactly intimate
with her, but only on sufficiently good terms to
let her sit on the footstool at his feet while he
looked for grey hairs in her head.
* * *
What Adelaide people would do without
the lively Mayor Cohen is not known. A beauti-
ful, social, religious calm overspreads the sacred
city. Despite his wonderful £25,000 share-specu-
lation, Governor Kintore doesn’t “invite,” and,
for all the public know, Government House ball-
room may be covered with cobwebs. It is
rumoured that Kintoi’e invited somebody to
dinner the other day, but the report utterly lacks
confirmation.
* * *
It will cost £762 to find chairs for the
floor of the Sydney Centennial Hall. It will cost
£lO,OOO to provide lifts for the great Australia
Hotel, Sydney.
* ss *
( In season and out of season Lieutenant-
Governor Sir Alfred Stephen, ex-Chief Justice of
N.S.W., is never tired of thundering forth, that
nine-tenths of the crime committed in Australia
is directly or indiTeetly attributable to drink.
Which reminds us that on a well-known Oxford-
street vintner’s business-eax-ds appears this: “Sir
Alfred Stephen, in writing of our No. 1 Port,
A LACK OF PRESSURE.
HIS FRIEND: “AND SO SHE REFUSED YOU. NEVER MIND, OLD BOY
TRY AGAIN, PERHAPS YOU DIDN’T PRESS HER HARD
ENOUGH.”
THE REJECTED: “PRESS HER HARD ENOUGH-WHY SHE WOULDN’T
LET ME GET NEAR HER.”
says : *lt is the finest wine I know of ; certainly
none of the Australian manufacture is superior to
it, either in quality or flavour.’” Sir Alfred must
have had much experience to be able to write so
oracularly. We wonder what Brother Clarke and
the rest of Sir Alfred’s Temperance colleagues
think of the business.
* # #
Mr. Allan, speaking for the Melbourne
piano trade, says that the time-payment system
benefits all classes, “from Ministers of the Crown
down to the pooi’est seamstress.” It surely can’t
be Gillies who has to purchase a piano by instal-
ments ?
* # *
A gorgeous poster of a female acrobat in
fleshings has been removed from London hoard-
ings at the instigation of a Social Purity Society.
Very soon we shall have the Pears’ Soap babies
put into knickerbockers by Act of Parliament.
* # #
Apropos to the honorary beaks who drop
in casually to see how the Building Society case is
progressing at Melbourne City Court, it is not
generally understood that one magistrate can
“commit” if he wishes to. And as Panton is the
only representative of justice who is hearing every
word of the evidence, yea or nay will rest with
him.
# * *
The Sydney Freeman’s Journal lately
celebrated alcoholically and otherwise its fortieth
birthday. The Sydney Mail has just celebrated
its thirtieth birthday. We cordially felicitate our
hoary contemporaries, and hope they will be soon
old enough to know much better.
# # *
But we must admit that there is much to
be said for the Freeman’s Journal as against all
other Australian religious papers of our acquaint-
ance. It isn’t too religious. Just as the priest,
being a man-of-this-world, as w ell as of the next,
does not, while keeping his eye on the devil,
utterly lose sight of the whisky and lemon and
other small things which do so much to make life
tolerable in this vale of tears, so the Frayman,
while doing its duty by the Pope and the calendar
of saints, forgets not to chronicle what sort of a
head Goddard put on Dooley and to let the faith-
ful know the betting about next Melbourne Cup.
Any religions newspaper with a fixed idea that
man was made to live ; olely on his marrow-bones
gets sadly left.
# # *
Hopetouu is nervous, and doesn’t drive
much himself. He was driven to the races last
week in a kind of largish pony wagonettte, with
four little clipped black galloways.
* # *
Slabbs, the Squatter, has a very intelligent
aboriginal, and asked him the other day, “ Jacky,
has there been anyone along the road ? ” “ Yowi,
one man.” “A gentleman?” “Baal.” “How
do you know ? ” “ Too much dirt alonga nail. ”
# # *
The young Melbourne collegians are in-
depend* nt-minded, and in their debating clubs
attack live questions. Last week they argued
whether women ought to propose, and now one
college lists a debate on the theorem that every
Russian ought to be a Nihilist.
# * *
A new definition of the word phenomenon ;
A man out walking with his own wife.
* # #
Sydney City Council intends to memorise
the names of its ex-Mayors on marble tablets at
the Centennial Hall. Why not on bi-ass ?
Evening Ruse “ ad.” :
■VACANCY for Two Young Ladies, good address;
y every privilege allowed. , Woolloomooloo.
Alfred, what does this mean ?
* # #
Things have come to a pretty pass indeed
in N.S.W. when pressmen and printers have to
stay up till midnight to minister to the glory of
the beetle-browed ruffians of the prize-ring.
* * *
When you become engaged to a “ lord, ” or
the son of a lord, don’t rush round to the news-
paper-offices and let the public at large into your
confidence. The lord, or lord’s son, may elect not
to face the music.
* * *
If when “ down on your luck ” you accept
the hospitality of the Salvation Army, you must
neither drink nor smoke on the premises; you
must not go out without leave ; you must attend
Salvation Army meetings regularly: you must
give the Army authorities a private and particular
history of your career ; you must be home by 9.30
p.m., put out your light at 10.30, and arise at G a.m.
and say prayers after every meal, a specially long
service being held after breakfast each day. From
which it will be clearly seen that the domestic
arrangements of the Harmy wouldn’t suit any man
accustomed to smoking in bed.
* * #
Wanted, for six months, the services of
M. M. Gaboriau, Zola, and Sardou. What for ?
To write up the Pilloy case in Melbourne.
# # #
Why whine about the sufferings of the
mad elephant in irons at Sydney Zoo? We have
plenty of mad men in irons and in solitary con-
finement in the gaols. Schofield, convicted, as it
i i now clearly shown, by virtue of the deliberate
suppression of evidence by officials, died in his
irons in a Queensland prison, and who whimpered
over his doom ?
* * *
The latest alleged Sydney polyandrist is a
lady with several aliases who “ had charge of a
temperance-lodge at the back of St. Andrew’s
Cathedral,” and who, after proposing to a gunner
in the N.S.W. Permanent Artillery, who married
her, incontinently went off and married a butcher.
* * ' *
The Bulletin, after long and exhaustive
study of police-courts reports, has come to the
conclusion that some strong occult connection
exists between teetotalism and bigamy.
* # *
Henniker Heaton—it is obviously Henni-
ker Heaton — cables to Sydney News intelligence of
another big scandal in London high life, involving
a beautiful countess and a leading tenor. If the
world only knew it, there are probably a hundred
scandals involving beautiful countesses and Lon-
don tenors. With tenors, women are but as clay
in the hands of the potter. Tenors are sometimes
beautiful, almost always are they brainless, but
they are the spiders and women are the flies.
Look at the fat tenors who camped so long in
Sydney and Melbourne—the goats in pig-shape,
who used to eat two ducks and drink two bottles
of claret at a meal, what ruthless devastation did
they work in the homes of the impressionable !
One of these satyrs, whose habit it was to shame-
lessly boast of thesuccess of his intrigues, habitually
showed a certain newspaper-man, a fellow lodger,
the private correspondence delivered to him at
tiro theatre. One astounding feature of it was
its voluminousness, another the absolute reckless-
ness with which women wrote when once they had
compromised themselves with the fat and melo-
dious object of their misplaced affections. They
were of all sorts, shapes, colours, ages, and social
positions—and they all sought to entice the fat
man with presents. Some of them actually gave
him cheques bearing their husbands’ signatures.
What a lovely study of human nature it all was !
How comes it that Moss Vale-township,
with the small population of 800 all told, occupies
fifth position on the N.S.W. insolvency returns
for the year ending last December ? Can it be
through vice-royalty travelling “ on the never ”
when rusticating, or can it arise from the stingy
habits of the beau mondc of Sydney whose estates
are scattered around ?
* * #
“ Down the line ” from Syaney there is an
amateur snake-charmer. This gentleman, tired of
confining.his seductive lute to entranced lizards,
recently aspired to the broader field apparently
offered by humanity, and so, at an up-country
wedding-party, brought his fascinations to bear on
a lady guest. The reptile-king is now of opinion
that though death adders and big carpet-snakes
are ugly varmint, taming them is real fun compared
to pugilistically dealing with a six-foot, red-
headed native of 13 stone weight.
# # *
At A delaide a comely Salvation lass, known
as “ Happy Harriet,” became the wife of a tram-
driver ; but after some years she went wrong with
a captain in the Harmy (such officers are doubly
fatal, in that they combine the fascinations of the
millingtary and those of the clergy) and then she
wrote her deserted husband “ Louie, I have
done what I said I would do so long, and now I
have done it. You drove me to do what I have
done. I hope that you will send me the £2 that
is in the little drawer. I have been untrue to you,
and I will never live with you, so I will go along
with myself. I was not untrue when you said so.
I said 1 was. But I can now be good and true to
God. Good-bye. Send me the money, please.”
There is a big moral in this very human and woman-
like letter for those who are arguing out the great
divorce-question. The married condition when
not founded on something at least approximating
to love is mere blasphemy against nature. The
woman could neither be true to herself nor “to
God” while consorting with a man for whom she
had no affection.
* # «
From a Portsmouth paper :
Nobody supposes for a moment that Sir Samuel Wilson
represents Portsmouth. All sorts of odd rumours are
about respecting his intentions. The big expectations of
the party with respect to him as a member have been dis-
appointed. His money-bags were dangled before the
eyes of the constituency, who foresaw new industries and
a ceaseless stream of benefactions if they would only ele-
vate the returned colonist to the House of Commons. We
need hardly recall how not a single promise he made has
been kept, and not a single hint that he dropped had a
shadow of sincerity about it. Now the Conservatives of
Portsmouth would gladly pitch Sir Samuel Wilson over-
board, but Sir Samuel does not see the force of the
arrangement. He reckons that he has a claim on the con-
stituency. We cannot follow him in the reasoning that
arrives at this conclusion, but if he did go to the poll the
result might be disastrous for the Ministerial party.
In other words, “We married you for your money-
bags, you mean Australian screw !”
* * *
The proposal to devote the money raised
for a memorial to the late Rev. G. Fairfowl Mac-
arthur (head-master of King’s School, Parramatta)
to paying off the debt remaining on King’s School
chapel is absurd. To perpetuate a man’s memory
by means of a debt you must perpetuate the debt,
as a debt once paid is forgotten. The debtor is
never forgotten by his creditors; a debt, there-
fore, is an indestructible monument. Besides, the


Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
If in need of a stimulant take Wolfe’s Schnapps
Wolfe’s Schnapps—popularity increases yearly.
SCOTTS
EMULSION
OF PURE COD LIVER OIL
MS HTPOFH©gPBITES
Almost as Palatable as Milk.
So disguised that it casa he taken*
digested, and assimilated by the most
sensitive stomach, when the plain oil
cannot foe tolerated; and toy the com*
blnatioa of the oil with the hypophos*
phites is much more efficacious.
Ecmarkahle as a flesh producer.
Persons gain rapidly while taking it.
SCOTT’S EMULSION is acknowledged by
Physicians to be the Finest and Best prepa-
ration in the world for the relief and cure o£
CONSUMPTION. SCROFULA.
GENERAL DEBILITY. WASTING
DISEASES. EMACIATION,
COLDS and CHRONIC COUCHS.
The great remedy for Consumption, and
Wasting in Children. Sold by alt Chemists.
Robertson’s Whisky. £2OO PRIZES.
GIVEN AWAY l\ THU COLONIES
as follows:
16 of each, lio and 70 £l,
Pamphlets from the Agents, ALLT & CO., Limits CHAELOTTE PLACE, SYDNEY
introduction of the chapel into the memorial move
ment is liable to raise other difficulties. Many of
the old King’s School boys have their own ideas
about theology and now walk in tracks widely
divei’gent from that in which they were led by
kindly old parson Maoarthur.
* * *
A Far Northern doctor—it was on the
Hodgkinson River—was chained up in a cell the
other day with the jim-jams and a loaded revolver.
“ Fom go in and take the revolver from him,”
sweetly murmured the discreet policeman to the
doctor’s wife—“l daresay you can manage him
better than I can.”
# * *
Woman is not the nervous, hysterical
creature she used to be. The other day a middle-
sized female, with no particular signs of super-
fluous valour about her, was doing a pilgrimage
down Queen-street, Brisbane, towing behind her
a sturdy infant at the end of a string. Probably
it was an erratic infant with a tendency to fly off
at a tangent, and it had a swelled, mdignaht,
apoplectic look about the head as if it resented
the indignity put upon it. By-and-bye, a great,
good-natured dog, about as large as a reasonable
horse, came along and capsized the infant, and
frisked round on top of it, and a howl of remon-
strance went up to the listening heavens. The
lady turned and looked at the animal. She didn’t
scream, or grow excited, or exclaim “Me che-ild !”
She only hitched her skirts up a little, and kicked
that dog right up into the air with the calm assur-
ance of a person who would have kicked an
emperor, or a duke, or a boa constrictor, if any of
them had come in her road. Then she up-ended
the miserable offspring and plodded on as before.
# * *
Ladies who attend the theatre in evening
dross sometimes go home by the tram, and therein
(by allowing their opera-cloaks to slip from their
shoulders) continue to give a free manifestation of
the charms with which a bountiful nature has
endowed them. Thus it was, says a contemporary,
with a lady the other night. Some of the pas-
sengers turned their heads aside, others were spell-
bound, and so fascinated that they could not re-
move their eyes from the “animated bust.”
But there was one young man who saw
the matter in a practical light and acted
accordingly. For at the end of the vehicle there
sat a poor woman carrying an infant, which was
yelling most ferociously and turning its bloodshot
optics upon the decollcte'e dame, as if demanding a
reason why its supper was not instantly served.
Catching up the infantile screamer the young man
handed it to the overdressed (or underdressed)
lady, remarking at the same moment, “Madam,
allow me to restore your child.” . . . Confusion.
. . , “I didn’t mean any harm,” said the
young man, “ but where I come from, when a
baby cries we usually think it’s hungry.”
# * *
That irreverent backslider, M‘lntyre,
M.L.A., appeared in the Victorian Assembly the
other day with a demand that marriage by parson
should be abolished. Nobody took any notice of
this retrograde brother, however, and his sugges-
tion fell with a hollow sound like a fish dropping
on a throne. Nobody cared a straw whether
people were married in church or not. If the
three or four persons interested care to pay for the
use of a huge, empty temple, and catch cold on a
stone _ floor, and be gaped at by strangers, who
drop in and consult each other as to whether the
bride’s hair is her own, and whether the bride-
groom isn’t so ugly that no woman in her senses
would have him, it is entirely their own affair, and
we don’t see why MTntyre should interfere. And
if they prefer to have the ceremony galloped
through by a soulless Government official in a
dingy room perfumed by the smell of the dead rat
under the floor, that is also their own concern.
Also the bilious wedding-breakfast which follows,
and the speech which is made by the vacant clown
of the family, backed up by the deaf but well-
meaning uncle from the country who makes the
bride grow apoplectic in her efforts to explain the
clown’s personalities, and the old shoe which is
occasionally thrown after the fortunate pair and
generally hits somebody on the ear,, and all the
rest of the proceedings are entirely matters of taste
and can’t be regulated by Act of Parliament.
And when the affair proves a failure, as usual,
and the male defendant starts for San Francisco
with another girl, we fail to see how even MTntyre
can do anything to improve matters.
* * *
The Prince of Wales has succeeded in
taking a rise out of a small American boy. This
youngster belongs to a new kind of cadging society
which supplies each member with a penny, calling
upon him to invest the coin in the best way possible,
and return the increment to the society’s mis-
sionary fund. It is usual for the dear little
innocents to send their pennies to rich people and
get back a million per cent, interest at one fell
swoop. The boy in question posted his penny to
Marlborough House, whereupon an equerry in-
dividual posted the heavy, unpleasant coin
back again, with the information that His Royal
Highness didn’t require it. Tummy scored a
point here, but he would, in The Bulletin’s
opinion, have done better by sticking to the
Eenny, on the ground that he is a bit of a heathen
imself.
FOR LA GRIPPE (INFLUENZA)
And all colds and bronchial affections the best
remedy is Bosisto’s Original Eucalyptus Oil. In-
ferior oils are bottled to resemble Bosisto’s.
Buyer’s should see that they get Bosisto’s oil, with
registered “Parrot ” brand on yellow label across
the cork. Accept no other, and avoid disappoint-
ment.
Bona-Fide announcement. Highest cash price
given for all kinds of gent’s left off clothing.
Dress-suits for sale or hire. Letters promptly
attended to by QU1TTENTON BROS., Ill
Russell street, MELBOURNE. (New number,
16S.)
A BOON TO HUMANITY.
Tis food for young and food for old,
ft gives new life and vital power,
There’s nothing in the market sold
Like Pemgll’s patent Snow-wiiitk Flour.
Write for plans £10 Building sites, Perth,
Western Australia. Intercolonial Investment
Company, Limited, 96 Bathnrst-street, Sydney.
Roundabout.
It is reported that a bottle lately drifted
ashore on the West Australian coast containing a
number of cheques and other securities payable to
John Shaw, and judging by the dates and the ex-
tremely aged appearance of the documents it is
believed that they have been tossing on the restless
waves for 15 weary years. Somewhere about 1875
probably J ohn sank at midnight in the middle of
a sunless ocean after corking up his assets and
committing them to the deep, and while they were
slowly drifting to a far-off shore, he went down
into the fathomless caves, and the crab walked
over him, and the swordfish stirred him up with
its cold, dank nose, and the squid and the cuttle-
fish scornfully passed him by, and the eel sniffed
at him and flicked him with its tail, and he became
a mere unconsidered scrap of meat and bone
at the bottom of the ocean. What shall it
profit a man if his worldly goods come ashore in a
bottle after he is dead ? For his days are short
and precarious, and even if his money is invested
in good “shecurity,” at ten per shent, he would
sacrifice it all in order that he might get ashore
without any clothes on him on a desert island, and
find a cocoanut or a partially-decayed lobster lying
on the beach. Also, if he escapes from the wreck
on a hen-coop, and drifts on to a cannibal island,
and the natives assemble and holler “ meat ” as he
comes out of the water, what earthly good is it to
him even though he has a large sum accumulating
on fixed deposit ? Or supposing Mr. Shaw was
thrown up on the African coast and doomed to split
wood and wash dishes for some illiterate potentate
all thedaysof hislife, and was given inmarriage to a
female with a countenance like a horse and a figure
that resembled a quantity of disused pitchforks,
and now sleeps on straw alongside a camel, while
his helpmate plants her cold splay feet on his back
at night, what will it benefit him that his long-lost
pile has been found where he can’t get at it, and
is never likely to hear of it through all his miser-
able existence? Even if he escaped to some
civilised region after his bottle of wealth went
adrift, and made a humble subsistence by peddling
whelks in a barrow during his declinmg years, and
then died and was buried by_ the parish, what
better is he because his vanished riches have
fd
■ 5pP
“THE DEAR OLD COUNTRY FROM WHICH
WE SPRANG.”
"The fat party’s rum-selling ancestor is here shown in
the act of ‘springing.’”
turned up at last ? And still worse things
may have happened to him. Possibly he has been
offered up as a sacrifice to a stuffed idol, or has
been caught by a band of ignorant fanatics and
ordered to stand on one leg for 22 years. Possibly
he fell in with a tribe of fetish men, and they con-
sulted their oracles about him, and ascertained
that he had to be tattooed all over and then
married to sixteen cantankerous widows, with 122
children. These reflections make us feel sad.
What is property after all, and what does it
amount to even if a man has a bill of sale over the
entire universe ?
* # *
An advanced female named Miss Collins
has started a series of lectures in England on the
subject of “ Clothes,” the theme of the plentiful
outpouring being that the human race doesn’t
wrap itself up sufficiently The pernicious effects
of an insufficiency of clothing, it appears, are
manifested in coughs, consumption, asthma, and
assorted calamities in the larynx, to say nothing
of catastrophes in the {esophagus and disaster in the
mucous membrane. This sort of thing ought to
be suppressed. If earthly happiness can be
achieved by wearing four shirts and nine pairs of
socks, then man has no business to go on making
this world a vale of tears by leaving these articles
to fester uselessly in his portmanteau when he
might as well put them on and be at rest. We
can-ourselves distinctly remember the case of a
man who fell into the Yarra some years ago with
seven pairs of pants on and three coats, to say
nothing of a waistcoat or two, and when his body
was found two days later a miserably, ignor-
ant jury found a verdict that he had perished
through being encumbered with too much clothing.
If this case doesn’t seem to fit as an illustration
we can’t help it. Also we were acquainted with
another enlightened individual who habitually
wore his overcoat all the summer because if he had
gone out and left it at home, his wife would have
pawned it and drunk the money. Ultimately,
however, the lady was found dead one day with
her head under the grate, and her bereaved hus-
band, would have lived happily over afterwards if
he hadn’t fallen out of the top window of a tall
building and broken his neck. The inference to
be drawn from this circumstance may seem to be
rather short of coherence, but if so we are not re-
sponsible. Also we have heard on reliable authority
of a person who invariably wore two flannel under-
shirts in the tropics, as well as large woollen socks
and other fixings, and though he was afterwards
hanged, his melancholy end was not ascribed to
any superfluity of clothing, and there _ was no
evidence to show that the undershirts had
eaten into his soul. Even supposing these facts
have no direct bearing on the case they are still
worthy of intelligent consideration. For our own
part, we have always found it safer to wrap up
warmly than to hang our clothes up where they
can be embezzled by a Sunday-school teacher, or a
missionary, or a prominent colonial statesman,
and we were just considering this point one day
when an omnibus came up and struck us in the
back, owing to our sight being obscured by an
overcoat which came up about our ears and entirely
eclipsed the landscape. We consider these facts
as strongly supporting Miss Collins’ views on the
pernicious effects of not wearing enough clothing,
and we strongly recommend them to the consider-
ation of all citizens who entertain a regard for the
first principles of hygienic science.
Speaker Groom, of Queensland, writes
apropos to Minister Carruthers’ memo, on the
preponderanceof denominationally-educated young
criminals of Irish descent at Sydney Quarter
Sessions :
Heredity in crime may, indeed, still exist in a com-
munity like that of New South Wales. The “ old leaven ”
may be seen clearly operating yet in some But.
the racial illusion, which simply means that the Irish are
more given to crime than other peoples, is an exploded
indictment and a slander. It has been proved that no
nation in the world is so free from crimes in connection
with social conditions as the Irish, while if the land be
more subject to agrarian outrages, no land in tire world
possesses so many incitements thereto, it might also be
said so many excuses.
The new English Companies Act, of which
we hear by cable, provides that no person shall act
as a director of a public company until he shall
have filed with the registrar of • joint-stock com-
panies a certificate by two registered medical
practitioners that he is of sound mind and com-
petent understanding, a certificate by two mem-
bers of the Incorporated Law Society that he has
a complete practical knowledge of the law relating
to public companies, and a certificate by two
chartered accountants that he is well acquainted
with the various systems of bookkeeping, and the
method of preparing and auditing the accounts of
joint-stock, undertakings. Any person acting as a
director without complying with the requirements
of the Act, is made liable to imprisonment.
Mr. Harvey Patterson, chairman of
Broken Hill Proprietary Block 14, says he “is in
favour of the mine being worked on the ‘ contract ’
system, and it has become a question whether the
mines shall be worked for the benefit of the miners
or that of the shareholders.” Now, the contract
system is twin-brother to the sweating system,
and is abused in much the same fashion. Mr.
Patterson says that if the directors are to have a
struggle with the miners the sooner it comes the
better. Mr. Harvey Patterson may rest assured
that when the struggle does eventuate in earnest
the Broken Hills and Mount Morgans of Aus
tralia will thereafter be worked for the benefit of
the working miners, and not for that of persons
who draw their £lO,OOO, £20,000 and £40,000 a
month and spend it in London.
Frank Fowler told a good story of Bishop
Parker and a recently-deceased wealthy octo-
genarian M.L.C. The Bishop saw the member
sitting on the water-trough outside a Botanv
public-house swearing most colonially at a potman
who had brought him something in a jug. The
Bishop, startled by the swearing, pulled his cob
up short, and said: “My good man, you should
not swear like that. Here is a tract. Go home
and read it.” “Taste this bad ‘bishop,’ old
chap,” answered the sinner handing him some
mulled spiced claret, “and tell me if you wouldn’t
swear.” “No, thank you,” said his lordship,
smiling and riding on. “Ho you know who that
tall slab is ? ” asked the swearer of the potman.
“Know him, I should think I did; he’s the
Bishop of Sydney.” “Run after him, my boy,
and tell him I’m sorry for swearing, and if he will
come back I’ll stand a bottle of port.” . . “Do
you know who that rough-looking fellow is sitting
on that horse-trough,” said the Bishop to a gentle-
man riding by. “He, my lord? Why that’s
Mr. F , the rich member of Council. He
gave £2OO last week towards the new cathedral.”
sunset.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
Hush, the sun hides in the Western hills,
The blackbird* in the hawthorn tree sings loud
While to the sighing breeze the tinkling rills
Whisper of love, and over all the Cloud
Spreads the dark awning of his shadowy wings,
While'sable Night drapes the dark curtain
round,
Then Morpheus sings his dreamland songs and
flings
His magic spells, that mortal sense confound.
Thus fade our lives adown Time’s hurrying steel i
Thus in oblivion sink the just and brave
To earth —a long, interminable sleep,
Ne’er ending as the cycles of the grave.
Or holds it not, within its cav’rns dark,
That inner Principle, that conscious Eire,
Which upward trends as skyward leaps the spark,
Or to its rest the wing-worn dove’s desire ?
H. F
Riwaka, Nelson, N.Z., 17th Juno, 1890.
* Now the commonest singing-bird here.
Who is Morpheus?
Morpheus is the god of sleep, and sleep is, as \\\
all know, the suspension of the mental and cor-
poreal faculties for the purpose of renewing the
power of action exhausted by exercise. A German
philosopher exclaims: “Blessings on the man
that first invented sleep, it covers men all over,
thoughts and all, like a cloak.” Sleep dots indeed
act as “ tired nature’s sweet restorer ; ” it “ binds
up the ravelled sleeve of care; ” it is “ dumb
labor’s bath,” and after we have passed through
helpful unconsciousness, we are enabled to resume
vigorously the duties of life. Such are the con-
ditions attending refreshing sleep. When the
body gives way to disorder our sleep is broken,
and a d seased imagination conjures up alarm-
ing dreams. Equally pernicious to the system
is the absence of repose. In these anxious
and fast-living times sleeplessness has become
a disease, which has frequently proved the
precursor of insanity ; if it does not reach such a
melancholy issue, it is most perilous, and under-
mines health. There are oases on record in which
men have been able to exist with a small limit oi
sleep. It is recorded of Frederic the Great, King
of Prussia, who was a man of letters as well as
renowned for his great military exploits, his con-
summate prowess and successful reign, that he
was contented with four or five hours’ sleep ;
while General Elliott, during the siege of Gib-
raltar, slept but four hours out of the twenty-
four. These, of course, are exceptions, and the
general maxim is, “ eight hours work, eight hours
recreation, and eight hours sleep).” Men or women
of active mind evidently sleep less than the list-
less or indolent. But in cases when we are
troubled with sleeplessness, it becomes a question
of great importance what we shall do to remove
it, for how can we return to the duties of life after
insufficient repose? In the words of Milton :
“ The field
To labour calls us now with sweat imposed,
Though after sleepless night!”
In such cases sense and duty impells us to remove
an evil which is a strain on the system. Narcotics
have a hurtful effect on the human frame and are
absolutely dangerous, but there is a simple remedy
which never fails to give natural and refreshing
sleep ; and in this respject has already established
itself as an indispensable specific. That remedy
is Warner’s safe nervine. It contains no opiates,
but has a sedative effect by giving tone to the
system, and for nervous and tired out men and
women it stands unsurpassed. Says Mr. Will.
Dyer, city surveyor of Townsville, Q., under recent
late : —“I have suffered from want of sleep after a
day’s heavy work, and was recommended to try
Warner’s safe nervine. lam pleased to state that
it has allayed all irritation of the nerves, and
gave me sound and refreshing sleep.” Mrs. G.
Osbaldstone, of Wangaratta, Victoria, under date
May 21, 1890, states : —“ On and off for twelve
months or so I suffered from nervous headaches
and sleeplessness, for which I tried a number of
medicines without experiencing any relief from
my racking pains. Combined with these head-
aches were usually nausea and a sensation of a
heavy weight in my head. On hearing of Warner’s
safe nervine I procured a few bottles, and used
the same with perfect success. I found prompt
relief. The headaches since return but seldom,
and then in a mild form, when the safe nervine is
applied with instant success.” So well introduced
by the firm’s great elixir and kidney specific, the
Warner’s safe cure, the medicine will doubtless
become a household word. Then many a wakeful
eye which does not know who Morpheus is, wi 1
joyfully acknowledge to having been brought
within his divine influence through this simple
agent.


Wagga boasts 49 public-houses.
Wolfe's Schnapps will do you no harm.
Tim popular liquor—Wolfe’s Schnapps.
Wolfe’s Schnapps has no rival.
Wolfe’s Schnapps—a mild stimulant.
Wolfe’s Schnapps will make you a new man.
A good bed companion—Wolfe’s Schnapps.
Reliable Watch Repairs. Baums & Co., King-st. Arcade,
Gharlemont and Co., photographers to the
Governor, Royal Arcade, have moderated their
charges for photographs, with a view of meeting
every one. Cabinets now 15s. per dozen.
The United States is a nation of traders. Two-
thirds of the business men of the Republic use
Esteebrook’s “Falcon” Pen. Samples free at
all Stationers.
I \
K
el
O
B
s
T
o
y
Scents.
DELISSAk PHILLIP!
3a J Barack Street.
A VERY BREASTPLATE
AGAINST COUGHS, COLDS, &o.
This is how the
BEVD. MARK GUY PEARSE
The great Wesleyan Preacher, refers to
ALLCOCK’S
POBOTTS
PLASTERS
And it only needs a trial to prove their great
value. They are applied externally and can be
worn with perfect comfort and ease, generally
relieving and curing in from three to four days.
In Asthma, Bronchitis, Rheumatism, Lumbago,
Sciatica, they are simply invaluable, and many of
the little complaints that grow into big ones
through improper treatment might be avoided by
wearing one on the chest and another between the
shoulder blades. Never has such genuine testi-
mony been given before.
ALLCOCK’S Porous PLASTERS
are sold by all Chemists in various sizes, from
Is. IJd. to 225. 6d., but be very careful to see that
you get ALLCOCK’S, as abominable rubbish i»
being palmed off by unscrupulous traders.
Amusements.
JJER MAJESTY’S THEATRE.
Lessee and Manager .... Mr. Geo. Uignold.
Doors open at 7 ; commencing 8. Carriages at 10.30.
IMMENSE SUCCESS ! IMMENSE SUCCESS !
of I >ioii Boucicault’s Celebrated Drama,
A F T E ID _A_ JEi, "SSL.
“ OLD TOM,” Mr. GEORGE RIGNOLD.
Box Office at Theatre from 10 to 5. Brices as usual.
J. P. Macdonald, Acting-Manager.
QRITERION THEATRE.
Under the Management of Messrs. Brough and Boucicault.
Acting Manager ... Mr. H. J, Magee.
IMMENSE SUCCESS ! IMMENSE SUCCESS !
and Last TWO NIGHTS of the
BROUGH-BOUCICAULT COMEDY COMPANY
in
T. W. ROBERTSON’S 4-ACT COMEDY,
CC SCHOOL.” “SCHOOL.”
The Comedy produced, under the direction of
Mr. DION BOUCICAULT, JI'NR.
Prices—ss, Bs, 2s and Is. Box Plan at Nicholson’s.
]g O N D I AQUARIUM.
The Most Popular
PICNIC AND PLEASURE GROUNDS op AUSTRALIA.
The Famous Switchback Railway, conveying
Passengers from Cliff to Cliff daily..
Splendid Asphalt Open-Air Skating-Rink Free to Visitors.
Open Daily from 10 a.m to 10 p.m.
Admission, Is.; Children, fid. Trams to Gate —Fare, 4d
rp H E A T R E ROYAL.
Lessee Mr. S. Lazar.
Sub Lessees, Messrs. Williamson, Garner and Musgrove.
Treasurer Mr. Geo. L. Goodman.
LAST NIGHTS! LAST NIGHTS!
of
-J. Xj. TOOLE,
SUPPORTED BY HIS LONDON COMPANY.
ADMISSION—Ss., 3s. and ONE SHILLING.
C Y C L O R. A 3VE A..
The Battle of Gettysburg.
Just added. New and Wonderful Effects:—Bugle Calls
Cannonading, Musketry Firing. Military Band every After-
noon and Evening. The Battlefield by Night: Gathering
up the wounded in the gloom of night. The Dead March.
The Storm : Thunder, Lightning, Rain. Special effects,
3 and S p.m. No matter if you have seen the Cyolorama
before, come again and see the wonderful effects. Bring
the children.
LECTURES HOURLY. OPEN DAILY, 10 to 10.
ONLY A SHILLING NOW!
Children Half-Price,
GRANDEST SIGHT IN AUSTRALIA.
TJARLINGHURST SKATING RINK.
SKATING
TO-DAY
SKATING
TO-NIGHT
SKATING
TO-DAY
SKATING
TO-NIGHT
SKATING
TO-DAY
SKATING
TO-NIGHT
SKATING
TO-DAY
SKATING
TO-NIGHT
SKATING
TO-DAY
SKATING
TO-NIGHT
SKATING
THE LARGEST AM) BEST
IN THE WORLD.
Remember! Remember!
Seven Laps to the Milo.
THE SPLENDID FLOOR
PRONOUNCED
PERFECT!
THREE SESSIONS
TO-DAY.
Morning’, 10 to 12. Ad., Cd. Skates
Free. Afternoon, 2. SO to 5.
Admission: Gents, Is; Ladies, 6d.
Skates, Cd.
Evening, 7.30 till 10.15.
Admission, Is. Skates, Is.
Season Tickets:
Gents, 50s. Ladies, 40s.
SKATING
TO-DAY
SKATING
TO-NIGHT
SKATING
TO-DAY
SKATING
TO-NIGHT
SKATING
TO-DAY
SKATING
TO-NIGHT
SKATING
TO-DAY
SKATING
TO-NIGHT
SKATING
TO-DAY
SKATING
TO-NIGHT
SKATING
Theatrical
H O S IE 3FI. Y.
SILK
COTTON
WOOL
TIGHTS, SHIRTS,
AND
OPERA HOSE,
PADS, ANIMAL DRESSES, ETC.
SPECIALITIES MADE TO ORDER.
Gilt Trimmings, Boots, Stage Fabrics.
S3P” Manufacturers to all leading London and Provincial
Theatres.
AUSTRALIAN AGENTS WANTED.
B. BXJRMET & CO.,
42 King Street, Covent Garden, London.
NO
DON’T
WASTE
IT
You Will most certainly save Money,
Time, and Anxiety by placing all your
Advertising in our
hands.
P. T. WIMBLE & CO.,
Advertising Experts,
"69 to 373 George St., Syd. Send for Pamphlet
“ How to advertise and why ? ” 11th Edition.
Applications are invited from gentle
MEN competent to undertake EDITOR-
SHIP of The Australian Republican, Charters
Towers. Applicants must state terms and enclose
references. HY. HUBBARD, Secretary, The
Australian Republican, Charters Towers.
IyTOTICE. —W. BUSHELL is not authorised
to represent The Bulletin in any way.
dVTOTICE to Agents, Subscribers and others
in New Zealand.—Mr. J. V. HOURIGAN
is the only authorised Travelling Representative
for The Bulletin.
'Vf OTICE. —Advertisements for Current Week
rece ' LATER than 1 p.m. on
“ A Golden Shanty,”
PRICE—ONE SHILLING.
Business Announcements.
Messrs. MAUDE & CO.,
Artists lu Natural Flowers,
Having engaged a competent Lady Artist from London,
are prepared to place before the public all the latest
novelties in Floral work Table decorations for Balls,
Weddings, and Dinnerparties receive special attention for
which our visiting artist may be engaged.
Boquets, Wreaths, Presentation Baskets, Floral Designs,
Sprays, and Buttonholes
are arranged in the latest London style at
The Home of Flowers,
141 King Street, SYDNEY.
Royal Exotic Nursery, Pcakhurst, Hurstville.
Eye - Sight Restoreci.
WHY SUFFER.! We send gauge for testing sight>
a treatise on “Vision,” and all information free. Spec-
tacles of every description from Is.; Pebbles from ss.
Pilot Field Glass, clear definition five miles, with case.
“Liver” Telescope, with astronomical glass, clear
six miles, 21s. Good going Silver Watches, 255.,
nicklc, 12s. fid., 15s. and 205., guaranteed two years.
W. El. Toose, Optician, 418 George-street, Sydney.
Awarded Nine Medals at various Exhibitions
WOOL. -WOOX^.
THE NEW ZEALAND
Loan & Mercantile Agency
C OMPANY, LIMITE D.
BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Capital, £4,500,000 ... Reserve, £270.000
Wool Season* 1888-89.
Regular Sales of Wool Held Throughout the
Season.
rpHE greatest care bestowed cm the Valuation and the
Displaying and Protecting all Wools entrusted to
the Company for sale, whether from large or small clips.
Growers Advised and Consulted ivith before Sales
of their Clips are made.
Liberal Cash Advances, where desired, on Wool lieu
of Ensuing Clip, and on Wool and other Produce, whether
for sale in Sydney or shipment to London.
Auction Sales of Sheep Skins, Marsupial
Skins, Hides, Tallow, &c., Held Regularly.
jgp” Every Information Supplied on Application.
G. S. CAMPBELL, Manager.
SYDNEY WOOL & GRAIN WAREHOUSES
Bridge and Loftus Streets.
m
ROSE’S
%
%
f
Lof \9&
dfd
fd
fd
ESyTP//
fd
rpms valuable Lotion is guaranteed to cure SWELLING
J and SANDY BLIGHT, INFLAMED EYES and LIDS,
DIMNESS OP SIGHT, &o. It will be found very bene-
ficial and cooling to those who have weak eyes, or whose
work compels them to strain their eyes. Highly
recommended by the leading Oculists.
Manufactured only by the Proprietor,
h. hose
Dispensing and Manufacturing Chemist,
531 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Wholesale by the Proprietor and all Wholesale Houses.
Established 1858. By Post 3s. 6d.
Manufacturer of Dr. SOUTHAN’S GOUT and
RHEUMATIC PILLS.
RAIN’S FAMILY Sc COMMERCIAL HOTEL,
PRINCES STREET,
( Opposite G. P. 0.)
ID TJ TsT EDI IsT, ZCsT.Z.
ALEX. PALMER .. Proprietor
_
/ .v >
<
&
% < V BY
o,
from
every flower that
breathes a fragrance
SWEET SCENTS
LOXOTIS OPOPONAX
\FRANG IPANNI PSIDIUM j
street
May be obtained
Of any Chemist or
Perfumer.
Be ware of imita tions: The genuine is signed
TRADE MARK .—MDsK DEER
fd
PHYSICAL HEALTH of WOMAH,
—BT—
ALEX. IP-^TIEZR/SOilSr,
A.M., M.D., F.R.C.S.
157 Elizabeth Street, Hyde Pari:, Sydney.
PRICE Si, 6d.
A. 1 I IB ooksellera.
N
Furniture, &c.
EWT ON AND
LAM B.
FURNITURE and pianoforte
WAREHOUSEMEN,
CABINETMAKERS, I fPHOLSTERERS
BEDDING MANUFACTURERS
SHOW ROOMS AND MANUFACTORY;
SPRING AND O’CONNELL STREETS.
&
EAST CHAIRS, for Parlour, Library, or Bed-
rooms, new designs, covered to order, in
any mater ah
PIANOFORTES, by R. LIPP and SOHN,
L. NEUFELD and other Celebrated
Makers at WHOLESALE PRICES. Newton
and Lamb.
AGATELLE BOARDS, Portable, various
sizes.
& EDROOM SUITES, complete, in various
-—* Woods, and very handsome designs, with
i feet Wardrobes, or with smaller Wardrobes foi
ngle rooms. Great variety.
NEWTON and LAMB,
Furniture Warehousemen,
SPRING AND O’CONNELL STREETS.
EDROOM SUITES, fashionable earl 3
1 English designs—Wardrobe 4 feet, wit!
.silvered plate-glass door : Washstand, with marbh
top and tile back, Towel Rail; Toilet Table
with Swing Glass attached; and Two Cane
Seated Chairs, 14 guineas.
NEWTON & LAMB,
O'Connell and Spring Streets.
f
/fN ANY AS FOLDING
\_y COTS, for camping
out. A cheap occasional
bed light, strong, and
handy, 10s. 6d.
Newton & Lamb.
DINING TABLES, with patent extending
screws, from 5 feet long and up to 20 feet.
WALNUT TELESCOPIC DINING
TABLES with extra leaves, strongly
made, £3 10s.
ALL FURNITURE, lIATST 'NDS and
CHAIRS. LARGE ASSORTMENT.
NEWTON & LAMB.
Library furniture, centre and
SIDE TABLES, BOOKC SES, SECRE-
TARIES, READING and LOUNGE CHAIRS.
(COMMODE CHAIRS. BIDETS, with Pan,
J SHAVING STANDS, NEWTON and
LAMB.
"TAPANESE BLINDS, White or Green (extra
f " quality), fitted with pulleys and cord, 6xB,
6s 6d.; 8 x 8, 95.; 9 xB, 9s. 6d.; 10x8, 10s. 6d.;
12 xB, 12s. Gd.; 12 x 10, 15s. Newton & Lamb,
Furniture Warehousemen, Spring and O’Connell
Streets.
EASY CHAIRS for Parlour, Library or Bed-
rooms. New Designs covered to order in
aay material. Newton & Lamb.
O ELF-ADJUSTING CHAIR and COUCH,
Uj for Invalids and Medical Men.
T> OCKING EASY CHAIRS, elegant and
jBAi restful— a speciality. Newton & Lamb.
fd
A USTRIAN
CHAIRS
in
GREAT VARIETY.
NEWTON & LAMB.
r
c
ANYAS
FOLDING
CHAIRS.
Substantial and Light.
Suitable for Shipboard and
Verandah.
Price Very Low.
NEWTON and LAMB
E’i nature Warehousemen,
Spring O'Connell Streets.
GARDEN SEATS, 6ft. long, Rustic Cast-iron
Standards, 14s. 6d., 195., 255., 325. 6d.
Newton and Lamb.
INDIAN LONG ARM LOUNGES.
T> ATTAN VERANDAH LOUNGES, from
XL 155.; and large variety of Chairs, from
10s. 6d.; special designs, extra quality. Newton
and Lamb, Furniture Warehousemen, Spring and
O’Connell Streets.
EWT 0 N AND LAMB.
FURNITURE and PIANOFORTE
WAREHOUSEMEN,
CABINETMAKERS, UPHOLSTERERS
BEDDING MANUFACTURERS.
Show Rooms and Manufactory }
SPRING and O’CONNELL STREETS.
ERANDAH CHAIRS.
AND
Parson Fellows, who has just returned
from England, says that the English churches
are full of women. Bishop Julius, of X.Z., says
it is impossible to get the men to kneel at church.
The A.8.W, Assembly refuses to pray before
starting business. Tim outward and visible signs
of piety are in a bad way.
Bonny, the sole survivor of Stanley’s rear-
guard, blames Stanley for the disastrous loss of
life which occurred, and holds up the great
explorer as an unscrupulous adventurer, reckless
of the lives of his colleagues, and as a braggart
who suppresses truth for the sake of glorifying
himself.
Edmund Yates seems unfortunate in his
choice of collaborateurs on the London World.
The fall of A. M. Broadley, of Cleveland-street
celebrity, followed by that of Louis Engel over a
bad seduction case, probably shows that, as
Charles Morley wittily remarked ; “ The World
knew little of its greatest men.”
P. A. C. O’Farrell (brother of the crank
hanged for shooting the Duke of Edinburgh at
Clontarf), who got into a little trouble with the
late Archbishop Goold, and is now sueing the Age
for having called him “ an assassin,” is a hearty-
looking old fellow, clean-shaven, with white hair.
Thirty years ago he was Dr. Goold’s right-hand
man.
From Melbourne Age, 28th June, under
"situations vacant’ :—
T AW CLERK, engrossing and general; salary, £1.
By letter, W.R., Age Office.
From this we conclude that the Melbourne lawyers
are mostly millionaires. Here is a man, who
modestly hides his identity under initials, offering
the princely " salary ” of 240 pence for an engross-
ing and general law clerk ! And no doubt when
the E. & (J.L.C. receives his screw, he is told to
be careful and not spend it all at once; also, not to
make a beast of himself ; likewise, not to look as
i f he owned the whole street; moreover, not to
forget the poor, the lame, and the blind, as well
as to put sixpence in the plate on Sunday, and not
to spend more than five shillings at the theatre.
The Hamilton (Vic.) Spectator supports
The Bulletin’s contention that juries and not
judges should fix sentences. It remarks that “ the
frequency with which both English and colonial
Executive Councils have assumed the responsibility
of disregarding recommendations to mercy, made
by juries who had returned verdicts of wilful
murder against accused persons, must soon lead
to a revolution in that department of jurispru-
dence,” and adds that nothing is more calculated
to demoralise juries than treating their recom-
mendations with contempt. “ Only this week a
man was hanged in Queensland who had been
strongly recommended to mercy, and whose case,
from what we have been able to learn about it, is
apparently one in which the exercise, of the
Governor’s prerogative should have been advised.
In New South Wales the Executive appears to be
particularly bloodthirsty; indeed, it seldom loses
a chance of hanging a man.” The remedy, urges
the Spectator, lies in the American system.


Many in and out of the city will be pleased to
know that Okeeljian and Co., photographers in
tlie Sydney Arcade, have reduced their charges
for photographs. Cabinets now 15s, per dozen.
ALWAYS AHEAD.
With it none other can compare,
None other dare compete,
For Pembu/s Flour is everywhere
Known 10 lie good and sweet.
Reliable Watch Repairs. Daii.ms &Co., King-st. Arcade
Use il.vniob Halving I’uwder.
Wolfe’s Schnapps—the ladies appreciate it.
The original genuine article —Wolfe’s Schnapps-
eight 11- . Length -1 I - Depth 2-. -
■D
'AUNG Kg,
(LIMITED)
IS Hid most complete and perfect instrument ever offered at the price;
Seven Octaves. Full Trichord, Iron, Frame, Patent Check Action, Brass 1
Pin Plate, Cross-strung, requiring only the minimum of tuning. . The umo
is powerful, and pure. T In very'elegant Black and. Gold or'
Walnut Cases.
This Piano is introduced by W. 11. PALING k CO., Limited, fot the
purpose of meeting a long-felt demand for a good, reliable instrument at an
easy price, and thereby giving to the head of almost every household an
Opportunity of supplying his homo with a firstrdass Piano at a price heretofore
.paid for a'much iuTcrior instrument.
Wolfe’s Schnapps—look for £l order
A pure spirit—Wolfe’s Schnapps.
You really ought to drink Wolfe’s Schnapps.
Wolfe’s Schnapps—It is grand.
Wolfe’s Schnapps should be in every house.
The Choicest Jewellery. Daiims & Co., King-st. Arcade.
Wolfe’s Schnapps, the purest spirit procurable-
Recommended by doctors—Wolfe’s Schnapps.
If asked to drink, call for Wolfe’s Schnapps.
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
/COUNTRY STOREKEEPERS, ETC.
Should write or call upon
A. M. MARKS & CO.,
—lmporters op —
Furniture, Pianofortes, Glass, Earthenware,
CHINA, FANCY GOODS, ELECTRO-PLATE,
CIGARS A TOBACCONISTS SUNDRIES
SOLE AGENTS FOR
Dawn Cigars and Salonica Turkish Cigarettes.
Special Novelties in all Lines for Christmas Trade.
Prices on Application to —
-A.. IVE, «Sz 00,,
Vickery’s Buildings, 74a Pitt Streeet, Sydney
AND AT LONDON.
Telephone, No. 919.
LADIES,
CONSULT the Eminent
Specialist,
Dr. SPEER, 31 York-st.
Sydney.
PILLS (Guaranteed), 55. ; post free.
First Prize:
MELBOURNE EXHIBITION.
Ewing*’s Indelible
Marking* Ink.
Approved and Patronised by Vice-Royalty and
the Elite op the Australasian Colonies.
Report of the Government Analytical Chemist ‘‘l have examined Ewing’s Indelible Marking Ink
for marking linen, etc. It is very good, the writing done with it resisting all attempts to wash out*
It may be well recommended. —Signed, Wm. JohnSton.”
All Wholesale and Retail Chemists, Stationers, Drapers. In cases, Is. Proprietor, T. A. Ewing-
Chemist (by appointment) to His Excellency, Brunswick-street, Eitzroy, MELBOURNE!
Adam Bede’s
NOW OPEN
MELBOURNE CUP,
/
PT" 50,000 at 20 each.
50,000 at XO each.
Address (please register letters)—
■I-
-1890.
462 EXTRA.—462.
400 EXTRA.-400.
Aa a xxx Bed e,
C/o H. N. ABBOTT,
Post Office Chambers, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Ask for the
Unequalled
“DAWN” 3d. CIGAR,
11
Of all
Tobacconists,
Store
AKD
Hotel
KEEPERS.
Whole sale Aponte: A. M. MARKS & Co., 71a i ITT STRI CT, SYDNEY.
DR. SCOTT S Electric Hair Brushes will posi-
tively CURE Nervous Headache or Neu-
ralgia in five minutes, if used according to
directions. In ordinary everyday use they will
promptly arrest falling hair and baldness, dand-
ruff and diseases of the scalp, and make the hair
grow long and glossy. These beautiful brushes
are made with pure bristles—-not wires which
injure the scalp and cause baldness and irritation.
Illustrated price-list of Dr. Scott’s Genuine Elec-
tric Appliances posted free to any address, on
application to the Pall Mall Electric Associa-
tion, 50, Margaret-street, Sydney.
COLGATE’S CASHMERE BOUQUET
TOILET SOAP : White, Exquisitely Perfumed,
Pure. PERFUME : Luxurious, Lasting, and
Refined.
THE ACMES OF PERFECTION
in Toilet Requisites.
All the essentials for wide popularity are fully
met in Colgate’s CASHMERE BOUQUET Toilet
Soap and Perfumes, which can be obtain from
all chemists and dealers in perfumery.
TO, EVERYONE shaving becomes a delight
who uses COLGATE’S DEMULCENT SHAV-
ING SOAP.
GOLD MEDAL. PARIS- ISB3.
THE REFEREE.
The Winter meeting at Elemington starts next
Saturday (12th), and the air of Melbourne is full of what
Tommy Corrigan’s great uncle said to Jim Scohie’s second
cousin. “ Miller's horses ” are whispered about at street
corners, and the general idea seems to be that if some-
thing can carry the weight and something else is equal to
his grandsire over the big sticks, the double is a moral
certainty for ,36 pair of horses, provided they arc “ goers.”
Some of the reputed goers have gone already St. Louis,
for whom the Grand National Hurdle was a “chuck in,”
has been chucked out, while Peter Osheck, a first choice
for the Steeple, lay down on his straw bed and expired
the other afternoon. At time of writing Toe Bulletin
is unable to pick out any doubles with a thorough
confidence in them all coming off for certain, but we
will venture to insinuate that Kedieap, who won the G.N.
Hurdle last year may get home in the Steeple this.
Probably, however, Mr. Miller’s big horse will have a
previous go for the Hurdle on Saturday, iu which case he
is quite likely to earn £ISOO and a penalty. Of others
fancied for the first important event Young Sussex has,
*r on breeding and reputation, a show. Busaeo is alleged to
jump better than a champion flea, and Parnell is no slouch
of a horse under any circumstances. Lochiel will not be
left at the post if he ever gets there, which is doubtful,
and the fate of that beautiful tip-topper, Corythus, is
somehow understood to he involved with the destiny of
his former conqueror, Readleap. On -his four-year-old
form Tradition would undoubtedly win if the hurdles
were, taken away. At present the unfortunate animal
looks well, jumps fairly, and has a doubtful leg, but pre-
suming’the leg holds out, and nothing else happens to
prevent, we guess Tradition ought to walk in—either first
or last.
* # *
Our old friend “ Pendragon ” has been sneering
at the Duke of Westminster for running a three-year-old
two days in succession. “Such treatment may spoil a
real, good colt for ever,” says “Pen.,” who is merely
repeating a dogma of English sporting journalism. From
a writer who knows something of racing in Australia sucli
ideas come as a surprise, unless it is that he believes
English horses to be higher trained and harder ridden
than their relatives on this side. On at least three occa-
sions Carbine has won two races (including a two-miler)
on the same afternoon, and yet “such treatment” will
probably not prevent this real good colt from nearly
winning next Melbourne Cup.
* * *
The boss-prophet of Melbourne Sportsman
seems to have hopelessly lost himself in the fields of
literature, where, says the Elijah : “ I strolled vacuously
on for some little distance, hoping that some divine
afflatus might deign to breathe on me and inspire me
with the longed-for pabulum.” Fancy printing those in-
coherent ravings on pink paper and selling them for
threepence !
* # #
The finest training establishment for racers in
Australia is St. Albans, by Geelong ; it was sold by Wilson
to Crozier for £40,000, a price thought excessive, but in
three years Crozier sold it to the present proprietary for
£70,000, and they are spending £30,000 more on it,
Broken Hill being the mine out of which this £IOO,OOO of
coin has come. One’s thoughts go back to the old rivalry
between St. Albans and Maribyrnong, where the thorough-
bred gave way to the shorthorn, but Fisherman's grave is
stiff pointed out, like those of Musidora, Briseis, and
Mischief, at St. Albans. Again we think of Terrara,
Byron Lodge, Town’s unfortunate place, and Bowler's,
so beautifully situated on the Mitta Mitta, in sight of
Buffalo Peak.
# * *
Last year A. G. Steel, speaking of cricketing
prospects, declared the home teams wanted a long- rest,
and then he went on to say : “We have been beaten by
those Australians on the river, in the ring, and there is
every prospect that we shall he beaten in the cricketing-
field next year if this team comes over.” Well, the team
is “ over there ” now, and our opinion is that Mr. Steel
would make a first-class weather prophet or cable corres-
pondent.
* * *
The English Eleven defeated by the Australians
at Stoke (N.E.) could not have been a representative one,
because the Players were putting the Gentlemen through
—including Spofforth, who has now attained the summit
of his ambition • on the Oval on the same dates by nine
wickets.
* * #
Australia scored a brace of wins in England
last week. The cricketers (perhaps flukily and on a
hideous wicket, judging by the low scoring) won a match
at Stoke-on-Trent against an English eleven, and Lady
Betty won the Ellesmere Stakes at Newmarket. So Billy
Murdoch was a bit too previous when he said his eleven
had no show against anything like a good English team.
As in the case of Ringmaster, when he made his first win,
the cable tells us that the noble army of English sports
entered all sorts of frivolous protests against Mr.
Cooper’s mare.
* * *
Should the proposed light-skiff handicap come
to anything, it will bring into prominence a craft which
has almost become a thing of the past as a racing-boat in
Port Jackson—and very properly too. The present style
of light-skiff is merely a wager boat with top-sides, with
less speed, and very much harder to handle and keep
afloat in a breeze and choppy water. Why not have the
handicap in legitimate boats ?
* . * *
Dear Bulletin,—You say you can spell the
champion sculler’s name in nine letters, thus—“ Peter
Kemp.” Nine letters also will spell Stansbury, Wm.
O’Connor, Matterson, Bill Beach,* Ned Hanlan, Jno.
Teenier, &c.—Yours, &c., Parramatta,
# # »
The defeat of ex-amateur Kerr on the Yarra by
Britisher Bubear shows that a first-class amateur is no
match for a fourth-rate professional. By the way, it is
rumoured that amateur champion Kennedy would like to
go to England, with a view to putting down the British
amateurs.
* * *
The Surrey Eleven, as it now appears, are play-
ing in very moderate form this year. Avery second-rate
county like Essex recently scored an innings of 262, and
then disposed of the uncertain Surrey crowd for 127—0 n
a good wicket, too.
* * , »
J. L, Sullivan now refuses to fight Peter Jack-
son under the new police restrictions. Sullivan has a
very good story to put forward. Says he to Jackson :
“ You are a Queensbery boxer. lam a raw-meat man. I
claim to be the champion hare-fist bhiiser of the world,
the lineal descendant of the old-time fist-fighters, under
the rules of the London prize ring. I want to fight on
grass, wrestling allowed.”
# * #
John MT-’her.son, a Scotch Canadian, challenges
the world at shot-putting. He defeated Duncan Ross at
Philadelphia in ’B7.
# * *
Jem Mace, junior, has written a work on boxing.
He teaches the manly art in a London “ School of Anns.'*
* * *
Littlewood, of Sheffield, challenges the world to
a six days’ go-as-you-please.
* # #
Rowell, the veteran long-distance walker, has
undertaken to go on foot from Brighton to London in ten
hours, and to ride hack in four hours fifty minutes, for a
stake of £IOOO.
* * *
Professor Donaldson, the tired-out American
heavy-weight boxer, has returned to ’Frisco. The boxing-
saloon in Honolulu must have been a failure.
Duncan Ross defeated Policeman MTlardy
and poor, old Donald Dinnie (who, in his best day, was
the greatest all-round athlete the world ever saw) in a
prolonged contest at Wagga Wagga.
* * #
Slavin meets the giant M'Auliffe at the Ormonde
Club (London) for tIOOO purse put up by the club.
Slavin, it is said, declines to box at the Pelican Club be-
cause they refused him admission to the Jackson-Smith
contest.
c:- # #
Poor Billy M'Carty’s good eye is said to be very
so-so, which, no doubt, accounts for the fact that Fitz-
simmons made such short work of him. A recent arrival
from America, who saw the fight between M'Carty and
Dempsey, says that the Australian was nearly blind before
he faced Dempsey, and that it was pitiable to see him
waving his arms in front of his head in his endeavours to
stop the blows which he was unable to see. The Yankees
have stood to him bravely, however, and pay him £5 a
week as instructor, notwithstanding his infirmity.
# # *
Sporting and Dramatic News gives us an
engraving of the team of 25 lady cricketers being taken
on tour in England, and, as they are called the Originals,
it would appear that rivals are in the field. The young
ladies wear dresses not much longer than the knees, and
don the shin-protecting pads when they hat, while the
wicket-keep has full Blackham regalia. Two ladies are
splendid hatswomen, and one made 91 in a grand innings,
hut they don’t put down the chain like the Australian
Eleven. If it gets too low down it will have to challenge
the ladies’ team.
Dan Mayne, of the Bathurst Sentinel,
likes to refer to Mudgee Taylor as “our former
editor.”
Gladstone is the father of the phrase
“local option.”
Anagram ; Henry Morton Stanley—Only
to rest near Hymen.
A brother of the late Peter Lalor is
member for Leix, (Queen’s County) Ireland in the
National interest in the House of Commons. He
polled 3528 votes to his Conservative opponent’s
406.
A faultlessly-attired Frenchman called at
a swell residence and sent up by the maid a card
bearing the name of an old French nob’e family.
The hostess spent an hour in making her toilette
and received him with most bewitching courtesy.
He proceeded to explain that he was a professional
dog-bather and had called with a view to business.
—-Amer.
During the great labour row over the en-
gagement of Chinamen by t'e A.S.N. Co., G. P.
Dibbs, upon whom it is sought to impose the
political burden of the unpopular act, found him-
self on the edge of a great crowd at Circular Quay,
amongst whom on his approach were raised loud
cries of “Stone him ! ” “Kill the ! ” E cape
was impossible, so Dibbi walked right into the
crowd, whose threatenings became louder. Affect-
ing not to notice the trouble he said, putting a cigar
into his mouth : “ Will one of you fellows give
me a match ? ” At once a score of hands, each
containing a -match-box, were raised. Dibbs lit
his cigar, and the crowd quietly made way for
him to pass through. “If I hadn’t thought of
that expedient,” says G.R.D., “they’d have
pitched me into the harbour.”
IMMENSE FAT WOMAN.
At Mildui’a, Victoria, the other day, a woman
was seen to step off the scale weighing 413 pounds,
and she was raised without irrigation. A long,
pinchbaok skeleton, raising his hat, said “Pardon
me, madam, but where did you get that fat?”
“Not from irrigation,” she replied, “but from
drinking that famous St. Louis Lager Beer, the
purest beer in the world.”
A Brisbane capitalist named Marchant,
who has made his money out of hop-beer, and
being a believer in Bellamy, intends to put his
workers on the profit-sharing racket soon, offers
the local WoRiiERfree machine-room and power.
The New South Wales Government think to
identify Chinamen by photographing them. The
French know better than .this. Photography
fails, but take a few anthropometrical measures,
and a wax impression of the ball of your man’s
thumb, and mistake is impossible.
The N.S.W. Opposition will be beaten on
G. H. Reid’s amendment providing for the elec-
tion by the Opposition of their own representa-
tives at the Federal Convention. The insistance
by Parkes on the nomination of Garvau and
Abbott looks as if the Hairy Man wanted to cut
the throat of his own scheme.
The women employed at a North London
laundry (says the P.M. Gazette) work from
8 a.m. to 0 p.m. the first five days of the week,
and otherwise from 8 a.m. to 11 p.m. —80 hours,
or, making generous allowance for meal-times, say
72 hours, at just a penny per hour—subject to
an agreement which stipulates that one week’s
wages shall be retained by the master, who shall
be entitled to confiscate that, as well as the current
week’s wages, should the signer “ refuse to do the
work required of me by my employer or other
person in authority.” So, in this case, freedom of
contract means that the women shall work up to
80 hours a week, and work as hard, as employer
or foreman chooses, on pain of immediate dis-
missal and the forfeiture of two weeks’ income !
An article on Baby-farming, by the Rev.
Ben. Waugh, in the Contemporary Review for
May, is one of the most heart-rending things we
have lately read, not because of a dexterous hand-
ling of words, but from its outspoken relation of
horrible facts.
It appears that Marat, who died by the
dagger of Charlotte Corday during the Reign of
Terror, was accused of thieving old coins while in
England in 1776. He escaped to Ire’and, was
apprehended at an Irish assembly in the disguise
of a German count, was brought, from Dublin by
habeas corpus for trial in England, and convicted
at the assizes which commenced at Oxford on 5th
March and ended on 7th March, 1777.
Years ago, during flood-time, a runholder
undertook to ferry the unwieldy Dick Golds-
brough across the Murrumbidgee. “ Please, sit
righn aft, Mr. Goldsbrough,” said the oarsman.
“ Why ?” enquired old Dick. “Because,” he
candidly returned, “ if she capsizes I don’t want
to shake hands with a twenty-stone man who
can’t swim.”
STILL IN THE LEAD
The great remedy for pain, St. Jacobs Oil, is a
wonder surely. But it is the result only of true
medical science and research. Such a discovery
had a right to prominence. It has cured wherever
used as directed. Founded upon the intrinsic merit
of each element which, in combination, proved to
be the perfection of cure. Its virtue has made it
what it is.
THE PEOPLE
of the United States know its name, and name it
as a remedy which should be in every house, for
every home knows its value. As a sterling com-
forter, the truest relief,
THE WORLD OWNS IT.
Canada took it up, and adopted it as a standard
cure. It crossed the ocean, on demand, and alike
in Scotland, England, and Ireland, in the ex-
tremes of climate and temperature, it is the same
sovereign Conqueror of Pain. Distinguished men
and physicians of South and Central America have
used and recommended it, and street criers have
sung its praise in verse in the streets of Mexico,
A member of Parliament
IN SOUTH AFRICA
praised it in open debate, and the same was done
by a U.S. Senator. In India it won its first gold
medal at the Calcutta Exposition, where expert
chemists and physicians awarded it its due ; and
by merit it has won in all similar competitions.
One of the most distinguished scholars of Germany
thought it his duty to praise it, and such has been
its meed from Prelates, Potentates, and the Press.
A distinguished traveller comments on its use in
Egypt. It was the comforter and cure of the lost
half-frozen Arctic explorers of the Greely expe-
dition.
BRITISH SOLDIERS AND SAILORS.
It found its place in the knapsacks of the British
soldiers in the Soudan, and its permanent supply
to the medicine-chests of Her Majesty’s warships.
This would seem enough to show 7 what it is doing
but one other potent fact can’t be disregarded. It
holds its own as the best known remedy of the age
for rheumatism,, neuralgia, lumbago, sciatica, and
all painful ailments.
TEN GOLD MEDALS
have been awarded to St. Jacobs Oil at different
International Exhibitions for its marvellous power
to relieve and cure pain. Its extraordinary merits
have been placed beyond all doubt by the severest
public tests. Its action is safe, sure, and speedy,
penetrating deeply into the seat of pain, and
curing when everything else has failed. It has
taken its place in the trade of this continent, and
has received from thousands of its patrons, in this
and other countries, proof that cures made by its
healing virtues, from the date of cure to the date
of response, embracing a lapse of years, have re-
mained permanent without recurrence.
Sold by all chemists and dealers in medicine.
Wholesale Depot forN.S.W., Messrs. ELLIOTT
BROS., Limited, Sydney.
THE CRUISE OF A WATERBURY.
The “ Cruise of a Waterbury” in Alaskan Seas
is not a myth. The facts as published recently
are simple statements which speak volumes for
the practical worth of the Waterbury Watch.
These timepieces were put upon the market for
the purpose of supplying a demand which existed
in reality, but was little dreamed of twelve years
ago as a possibility. The very idea of furnishing
the great mass of boys, laborers, farm-hands,
mechanics of the poorer as well as the more well-
to-do classes —the bare insinuation that such could
be accomplished seemed a utopian dream. When
the Waterbury Watch first appeared, it was
treated with derision, and for a decade has been
the butt of would-be funny paragraphists; yet
it has lived, thriven, and by sheer force of
intrinsic merit won its position, proving a
veritable blessing to those whose means were
limited. Millions of Waterbury Watches
have found their way into the hands of
practical, earnest people. They have educated
those_ wearers to a sense of the necessity of carrying
the time of day. They have stimulated the trade
in higher cost watches, and brought many good
general customers to the retail watch dealers. All
through these years the funny wretches have
derided the Waterbury. At last comes tidings of
the service performed by a Waterbury assisting
the navigation of a vessel in the tempestuous
Alaskan waters. The newspaper scribe seizes the
opportunity to denounce the statement as a sea
yarn, but—the newspaper man was too fresh on
the saltwater narrative—a corroboration was forth-
coming from the Navy Department, and the news-
paper man is—wdiere ?
Should an accident befall your Waterbury take
or send it to the Company’s Repair Depot, 56
Margaret-street, Sydney, where you can have it
efficiently repaired at a nominal cost, varying
from 6d. to 2s. Gd., according to extent of its
injuries.


Business Announcements.
PRIDDY & CO.,
Hats made to Order-
MANUFACTURERS
i| HATfifl
1 -0 F-
foIERCER V
Morley’s Hosiery.
438 George Street, Sydney.
Branch—G7S George Street, Brickfield Bill.
fd
REGAINED AND RETAINED.
The Australian Medical
Institute,
35 CASTLBREAGH STREET,
Founded for* the Treatment of Nervous, Skin
Blood, and Chronic Complicated Diseases, is
the Only Reliable Medical institute in Austral-
asia making a Speciality of PRIVATE DISEASES.
DR. JENKINS
Treats sucessfully all forms of Nervous,
Chronic, and Private Diseases, no matter of
how long standing or however complicated.
rSs*®i inrf
Who through ignorance and folly have trifled away
their strength, become ambitiouless in life, en-
feebled in power, and to whom existence is scarcely
bearable, Dr. Jenkins says
COME. AND BE HEALED
As the terms upon which patients are treated, viz.,
NO CUBE NO PEE, enables all sufferers to avail
themselves of this remarkable opportunity of
obtaining a speedy and effectual cure. Dr. Jenkins
wishes it to be distinctly understood that he docs
not rely upon the issue of books, more often never
written by the persons whose names they bear, and
are mere traps for the unwary, but honestly and
straightforwardly treats his patients according to
the dictates of a sound medical training.
NOTE THE ADDRESS
The AUSTRALIAN MEDICAL INSTITUTE,
35 CASTLE REACH STREET (Corner Moore-strect).
f. r.w. a co. SYDNEY.
X C. LI DOWH l aV SON, Manufacturers and Im
■ porters of Superior Oak-Tanned Leather Belting,
and every description of Leather Goods for Mining and
Engineering purposes.
- i?T■„ fj=
All Goods bearing the above Trade Mark are warranted
to give entire satisfaction, or may be returned at the
Makers’ expense. The Pioneer Oak-tanned Leather
Belting is used exclusively by the N.S.W. Government.
Over 200,000 running in Australia. The cheapest and
best Belting in the world. Send for prices and catalogues
162 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
JtOYAL
Edinburgh Castle
WHISKY.
* * *
Special Reserve
In Square Bottles.
This Whisky was
selected by oar Gene
ral Manager Mr Jas.
Cullen, during hi*
recent vl*u to Scot-
laud, and thiough its
purity, age and mag-
uintent bouquet, has
already secured the
premier position inthe
market. In cases, qrs.
and octaves. To be
had Duty Paid from
any of the Wholesale
Wine and Spirit Mer-
chants and Distribu-
ting Houses, and in
Bond only from the
SOLE AGENTS,
William Campbell k Co M Limited
*S Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
.'Wa*' I ’/:;/
TH S
ROYAL
EDINBURGH
CASTLE
Speculßeserve
A * *
DUD
SCOTCHWHISKy
f*s
■
i r rn‘~ilnim
G-ranei Pier Hotel, IMCsLiKxly.
EUChUC PHOTO EKC* CO.. 8 BRtDCE-STv SYDNEY.
LATIMER A BROOKE «> o Proprietors.
This Hotel has been Ee-Furnished throughout. Cuisine and Comfort a Speciality.
C 3 utis’ ZSOsKdaiEtM ge Hotel, g|yci;rs.ey.
*
i JL
L i
» ‘X
«n
h iii
= »
v-'A-r t
Adjoining the Sydney Exchange.
Mining, Financial and General Mercantile Intelligence
Posted several times DAILY in the Building-.
TELEGRAPH, POST and MONEY ORDER OFFICES on the PREMISES.
This Hotel has been thoroughly renovated and re-furnished, and is now unrivalled for comfort
and attention.
Aarons’ Exchange Hotel Co. (Limited), Proprietors.
XDo You Smoke ?
If so, treat yourself to an article so far above all other brands in quality and flavour that it cannot be
excelled, ihe Tobacco we want you to try is the “ BEAD 8188 ” brand. In colour it is a rich
dark brown, and is the finest quality of American Tobacco ever introduced. We only ask you to send
for a Single Plug or a packet of the Long Cut, and, after having once tried it, you will never
change it for any other brand. We can send you a small parcel of the tobacco in any fonn—as a
Mixture, Long Cut, or Curly Cut, for pipe only. This particular cut does not require any rubbing" up.
We can send you any size plug from an ounce to a pound weight. 8 1
fd
PRICES:
Single Plug, as sample, |lb ... 1/0
Single Packet, as sample, |lb ... 2/-
Send Stamps for any of these amounts, and ive will forward to any part of N. S. W. (post free.)
SOLS
AGENTS:
CRAIG- & AITKEH, 680 Georgs Street, Sydney.
JONES’ SEWING MACHINES,
FOR THE BOOT AND TAILORING TRADES.
THE BEST MANUFACTURING MACHINES IN EXISTENCE.
Now Perfected, the New No. 3 and No. 4 Machines on an Entirely New System.
STOCK JUST LANDING.
Farlelgrli, UXT etthelm, & 00.,
TANNERS AND LEATHER MERCHANTS,
16 + YOEK + STEEE T, -4- SYDNEY.
Sole Agents for the above for New South Wales and Queensland.
(x)
ALSO Importers of Requisites for the BOOT MANUFACTURING TRADE in all Details, including MACHtvpr v
IMPORTED LEATHERS, &c.; and of the following Special Links; Peerless Gloss, Satin Polish Nnhi..»
Blacking. Tanners’ Tools and Materials. Indents Executed on Favourable Terms* 1 Ml,ul
Medical.
DR. RICHARDS.
-.ii■!H ‘ l:i :s&%;■
iiiiiliiiif ' ' '
■BOO
CO
UMOf
This eminent Specialist, Founder, and Chief
Surgeon of the long-established and favourably-
known Dispensary that now bears his name, re-
ceived his medical education in the leading colleges
and hospitals of Europe. He has devoted a life-
time to the study of
PRIVATE, NERVOUS, AND SKIN
DISEASES.
He has by profound research thoroughly investi-
gated their origin, traced their deadly sources and
insidious dissemination, and ascertained the surest
and safest methods by which they may be eradi-
cated, with these widely recognised qualifications
combined with unswerving faithfulness to hii
patients, he has during his practice, extending
over FORTY YEARS, attained a well-deserved
pre-eminence in their treatment. His practice
embraces diseases which probably cause more un-
happiness than any other class of troubles that
afflict mankind.
YOUNG MEN
who suffer from the results of early follies, trans-
gressions or excesses of more nature age, bladder
difficulties, a whitish or dark ropy sediment in
the water, accompanied by slight burning or
smarting sensation, Headaches, Drowsiness during
the day, circles round the eyes, Giddiness,
irregularity of the bowels, specks before the eyes,
bashfulness, discontentedness, weakness or pains
in the back, Liver or kidney complaints, dreams,
buzzing noises in the ears and head, pimples, a
fear that something dreadful is about to happen,
weak stomach, yellow or blood-shot eyes, impure
blood, hasty, uncontrollable temper, hacking
cough, who cannot marry, nervousness in society,
wakefulness, palpitation of the heart, general
weakness, and other symptoms which lead to in-
sanity and death, should consult him, for he has
mastered these difficulties. On receipt of 6d. in
stamps he will send secure from observation in a
plain wrapper, postage
FREE, A LARGE CLOTH-BOUND
BOOK.
Showing plainly how all diseases of the private or
nervous system may be cured thoroughly and per-
manently without unnecessary expence. This
book will prove a valuable companion, and even
though you be perfectly well its general inform-
tion and prescription may assist you in restoring
some poor friend to health even after his case has
been pronounced incurable by his medical at-
tendant.
ONE POUND IS SUFFICIENT TO
SEND
for Remedies necessary for the cure of NER-
VOUS DEBILITY. Should you require medical
treatment, as procrastination is sometimes dan-
gerous, it would be advisable for you to sit down
quietly in your chamber and write to the doctor,
detailing every experienced symptom. He will
on receipt of such a letter, w rite you, promptly
and courteously, a candid and straightforward
oponion of your case. If you do not think you
understand the case, send for his famous medical
work, the price of which is but sixpence ; enclosed
in the volume will be found a list of carefully-pre-
pared questions, which will, in all probability,
assist you materially in describing your ailment.
Dr. Richards uses nothing but the purest remedies,
and never prescribes mercury under any circum-
stances. The moment letters are carefully per-
used and answered they are destroyed by lire,
and patients may rest assured that their cases
will remain a secret between the doctor and
themselves. Dr. Richards has successfully treated
nearly 25,000 cases since coming to Australia, and
has permission from at least 10,000 persons to
show their written evidence of his success. All
I communications should be addressed
Dr. RICHARDS,
I*7 Spring street
(OS Pitt Street North)
S "ST ID ILT IE YT-
Be sure to mention this paper when writing
CONSULTATION FREE.
MEAT HOOSiS
HIE,LP YQU-RSEtVC
FOX-TERRIER (in happy hunting-grounds): “It’s all very pleasant to get the end of my tail on
again, but really, my friend, I shall have to practice before I can sit down gracefully.”— Life.


Shipping.
JJUDDAKT, PARKER & CO.’S LINE
STEAM TO
MELBOURNE and TASMANIA.
From Huddart, Parker’s Wharf.
For Time and Date of Sailing, see daily papers.
The magnificent steamships, BURBUMBEET and
ELINGAMITE, have established an unrivalled reputation
for their speed and accommodation, and their large size
ensures passengers a maximum of comfort. The saloon
cabins are light, airy and very roomy. The dining saloon
is full width of the ships, also magnificent music room,
with gentlemen’s smoking room and splendid promenade
deck. Fore-cabin is on the main deck—lofty and well-
ventilated, perfect sanitation and ample lavatories. Fore-
cabin passengers provided with victuals and rugs. Inspec-
tion invited on days of sailing.
FARES TO MELBOURNE:
Return Tickets available for Six Mouths.
For Freights apply
HUDDART, PARKER & CO-
(Limited).
Office and Wharf: Foot of Margaret Street, Sydney.
NORDDEUTSCHER LLOYD.
IMPERIAL GERMAN MAIL.
Passengers are carried according to the requirements of
the English Passenger Acts of 1885 and 1863.
MONTHLY LINE OP DIRECT STEAMERS
from
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, and ADELAIDE,
to SOUTHAMPTON, ANTWERP, and BREMEN, via
COLOMBO, Aden, Suez, and Genoa,
taking passengers for London,
connecting from PORT SAID by DIRECT MAIL and
PASSENGER LINE to BRINDISI,
will be despatched as follows (if practicable):—
And thereafter every four weeks.
PASSAGE MONEY from SYDNEY,
£l4 to £57 10s.
RETURN TICKETS, available for NINE and TWELVE
MONTHS, at REDUCED RATES.
Passengers and Cargo are booked through to New York,
via Southampton.
Special facilities are afforded for bringing out.relatives
and friends from the United Kingdom and Europe by pre-
payment of the passage money in Australia.
For FREIGHT, PASSAGE, and all further particulars,
apply to FREDK. BETZ & CO., Agents, 5 O’Connell-street.
TTNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF NEW
W ZEALAND, Limited.
SAN FRANCISCO ROYAL MAIL SERVICE.
OVERLAND ROUTE TO ENGLAND VIA SAN
FRANCISCO AND NEW YORK,
Calling at
AUCKLAND and HONOLULU,
Avoiding alike the heat of the Red Sea and the cold
of Cape Horn.
Under Contract with the Postmasters-General of New
South Wales and New Zealand, the steamers of this line
are appointed to leave Sydney and Auckland for Honolulu
and San Francisco every fourth Wednesday, sailing as
under:—
Each steamer carries a duly qualified surgeon.
These steamers are fitted with Electric Light and with a
Refrigerating Chamber for ship provisions, insuring a
plentiful supply of ice throughout the voyage.
Passengers are booked to San Francisco or through to
European destinations and have at San Francisco choice of
the unrivalled Atlantic Steamship Lines of the Cunard,
Inman, White Star, and other companies.
All first-class passengers are allowed 3501 b. of baggage
to San Francisco and 2501 b. “Overland” free of charge.
THROUGH FARE TO LIVERPOOL.
FIRST-CLASS £63 to £66.
Time-cards, railway maps, and gu'de books, showing all
routes to any point in the United States, may be had on
application
_ For rates of passage and freight and all other informa-
tion apply at the Company’s Offices, 15 Bridge-street.
FREDK. W. JACKSON, Manager.
COMPAGNIE DES MESSAGERIES MAIM-
TIMES.
SYDNEY to LONDON.
OVERLAND FROM MARSEILLES via PARIS.
Steamers under postal contract with the Government of
France, calling at MELBOURNE ADELAIDE, KING
GEORGE’S SOUND, MAKE, SUEZ, and PORT SAID.
Passengers booked to KURRACHEE, BOMBAY,
MAURITIUS, and EAST COAST of AFRICA.
The service is carried on by powerful steamers of 4000
tons and 3000 effective h.p., built expressly for the Aus-
tralian and New Caledonian line, which will be despatched
as follows:
Steamers.
Commander.
Leave Sydney f Leave Mel-
at 11 a.m. bourne! pan
YARRA
Boulard.
AUSTRAL’EN Didier
~ ~ July 25
. ..1 August 25
[July 28
'August 28
And thenceforward on the 25th of each month.
Rates of passage-money to Marseilles from £2O to £65,
including table wines and Suez Canal dues on passengers.
RETURN TICKETS issued at the following rates: —
English interpreters meet through passengers for
London on arrival of steamers at Marseilles, and accom-
pany them to Paris and Calais. N.B. Passengers’luggage
conveyed free of cost from Marseilles to London. For
freight, passage, and further particulars apply at the
Company’s Office, 15 Macquarie-place.
A. CONIL, Principal Agent.
ISTORY OF BOTANY BAY.
PRICE-ONE SHILLING.
Prospectus.
mO SHEARERS, STATION HANDS,
JL FARM HANDS, LABOURERS, ROUSE-
ABOUTS, AND BUSHMEN GENERALLY
OF ALL COLONIES.
The XiSLixcai, Trade,
—AND —
Labour Union of Australia.
Has been established. Its objects are ;
1. To unite all the above classes in one body, but
with respect to shearers it is intended to apply
to them as station hands, which very many of
them often are.
2. To raise wages, to obtain better tucker, and
men’s huts being supplied.
3. Generally to advocate the interests of its mem-
bers. The strength of the Union will during
next general shearing be put forth in support
of the above objects. That the Union is a
fighting one and bona fide is proved in the
strike against Messrs. Chaffey Bros., Limited.
Men, come and join us ! Though only lately
started we have proved the metal we are made
of, as the public are aware from the late
reports in the Press.
Entrance Fee and Annual Subscription, ss.
A. Strong and Honest Committee of Management
are at the head of affairs.
Committee of Management Chairman, Thomas Allen;
Vice-Chairman, James Laverty; Messrs. Kelly, Davis,
Constance, Hood, Saunders, Ourwood, Black, Meldrum,
Thompson, Salsbury, Allen, Fears, and Walton. Trea-
surers; Messrs. M'Oleod, Mills, and Wilcock. Trustees:
Not yet appointed. Auditors: Messrs. Yule (of Williams
and Yule, Storekeepers), and Fred. Fleetwood, Land
Agent and Accountant. Bankers : The National Bank of
Australasia.
WE HAVE MONEY AND GRIT.
After this year both the entrance fee and
annual subscription will be largely increased,
but members joining now it is expected will only
hereafter have to pay the annual subscription of
2s. 6d., as they will have the fighting to do at the
first start off.
Prospectus, Members’ List, Tickets, etc., upon
application to the undersigned, by letter or
personally.
Post Office Orders to be made payable to—
ARTHUR TREYMAYNE,
Secretary and Manager,
Offices, Langtree Avenue Hall,
Mildura, Victoria.
Agents in different towns, at sheds, and travel-
ling, will be at once appointed. Business people
in all districts required to act as agents on usual
terms of commission. Apply with references as
above.
Companies.
The British and New South Wales Investment
ami Financial €o., limited.
Incorporated under the Companies’ Act, 1874.
Capital, £250,000.
Sydney Office: 246 PITT STREET.
TDILLS DISCOUNTED and Immediate Advances granted
Daily. Country communications promptly attended
to. The following Rates of Interest are allowed for Fixed
Deposits:—
3 Years
12 Months
6 Months
3 Months
10 per cent.
9 per cent.
8 per cent.
7 per cent.
With a Guaranteed Bonus on Renewals of Twelve Months
and over.
By order of the Board.
W. M‘DONALD, Manager.
Giiiuu’ Lifs Assurance Company,
LIMITED.
Capital ... ... <£200,000.
Head Office:
21 Castlereagh St., Sydney,
With Branches and Agencies throughout the Colonies.
3>Je"w Rlusiziess:
1887 There were issued 19,557 Policies.
1888 „ „ „ 34,084 „
1889 „ „ „ 57,323
These figures show the wonderful progress of the
Company and the high esteem placed upon its
liberal dealings by the public.
CLAIMS PAID
Immediately on Proof of Death
JAMES P. GARY AN, \
WM. ALEX. SMITH, f
Managing Director.
Secretary.
PROBLEM OF TO-DAY -WHERE CAN WE GET GOOE
BOOTS ?—SOLVED AT LAST.
ZE3 , IF” 3E*. !ES IKT O 3E31
(77tc French of years ago)
Can supply Residents here with Boots better made than
ever. Boots that must wear well and give satisfaction.
Send your orders then to 82 Oxford Street, and be sure
to enclose Sizes and Remittance, when your parcel will be
sent at once by Post, Rail, or Steamer.
Notice Prices for Boots that look well, wear well
and fit well.
Children’s Elastic-sides, 2/-, 2/11, 3/6, 4/-, 4/6, etc. \
Men’s & Youths’ ditto, 5/6, 6/-, 6/6, 7/6, 8/6, etc. ) .
Best
Boots
Men’s & Boys’ Bluchers, 2/11, 4/-, 5/-, 6/-, best ever made.
A Line of Stylish Laced Boots for Best Wear
(Boys’, Youths’ and Men’s Sizes).
ENGLISH BOOTS for LADIES, CHILDREN, etc.,
Sent as ordered. Lowest Price.
Satisfaction given or Money Returned.
Note the Address:
ECLIPSE BOOT CO.,
83 Oxford Street, SYDNEY.
B. French, Manager.
SHRAGERJ
v
*4
- «
;CIENTIFIQ
INSTRUMENT MAKER
19 MACQUARIE PLACE (Opposite Exchange).
Medical.
The Male Generative Function
IN
Health and Disease,
BY
Dr. ALEX. PATERSON,
M.A., M.D.; P.R.0.5./kd.; M.K.C.S., Eng,
PRICE, 2s. 6d.
OPINIONS OF THE PRESS :
“ Valuable medical work—the Doctor is a quali-
fied man and speaks with authority.”— Town and
Country Journal.
“Can recommend it as a work written by a
gentleman who lias attained a very high status in
his profession. Manning River Times.
“It sets forth scientific truths which, in the in-
terests of individuals and society, should be more
generally disseminated.”— Bathurst Free Press.
“ Society would be all the better if people only
gave a little of their reading time to such valuable
medical works as Dr. Paterson has in . this instance
given to them.”— Mudgee Independent,
“The author not only fully understands the
perils which beset youth and manhood, but he can
point out the remedies.”— Cobar and Louth
Herald.
“Dr. Paterson, M.A., M.D., F.R.C.5.8., is a
high authority on the matters he deals with.”—
Coonamble Independent.
“The work is well written, and far away the
best we have read on the subject.”— Wilcannia
Times.
“The subject is treated in a manner wdiieh
shows the author thoroughly understands it.”—
Fielding Star, N.Z.
“ The book cannot be too widely circulated, and
should be in the hands of every person, male 01
female.” — Poverty Bay Independent, N.Z.
“Totally different from anything else of the
kind which has come under our notice.” — Bruce
Herald, N.Z.
“It is a work which every young man should
read and lay to heart. ” — Border Post.
157 Elizabeth Street, Hyde Park,
SNrnDnsriENr.
Consultation by Letter, £l.
pows
EMBROCATION
\r \\SOLD
\ CW CD
fdf
Rowlands
Odonto
Is a pure, fragrant, nan-gritty tooth powder, and
warranted free from acids or other ingredients which
destroy the enamel; it whitens the teeth, prevents and
arrests decay, strengthens the gums, and gives a
pleasing fragrance to tho breath.
a soothing, healing and emollient milk" for the face
andhands, and is most cooling and refreshing to the
skin in hot climates ; it removes freckles, tan, sunburn,
roughness and redness of the skin, pimples, cutaneous
eruptions, &c., soothes and heals prickly heat, stings
of insects, eczema, burns, and all cutaneous irritation
more effectually than any other preparation, and pio-
duces soft fair skin, and a lovely delicate complexion ;
it is warranted harmless, and free from any lead or
poisonous ingredients.
ROWLAND'S EUKOHIA,a fragrant toilet,warranted free from
bismuth or metallic ingredients, which ruin the com-
plexion ;in three tints—white, cream, and rose. Ask
any chemist or druggist for Rowland’s articles.
AUTION.
/ The extraordinary reputation of Rowland’s Macassar
Oil; Kalydor and Odonto, induces some shopkeepers to
offer spurious imitations under the lure of being cheap;
the principle on which each is prepared is confined
solely to the knowledge of A. Rowland & Sons, of 20,
Hatton Garden, London, and therefore it is highly
necessary to, buy no Macassar Oil. Kalydor or Odonto
except those made by them, and which bear their
name in red i«k on the wrappers. %
JJISTORY OP BOTANY BAY.
PRICE-ONE SHILLING.
Medical,
Dr.
31 YORK STREET, WYNYARD SQUARE, SYDNEY-
P.O. Box 920. This eminent specialist is a graduated
physician of Harwood University, U.S., registered by the
Governments of N.S.W. and N.Z., and has devoted 16
years to the special study of CHRONIC, NERVOUS, SKIN
and SPECIAL diseases of MEN and WOMEN. Al! apply-
ing to him will receive his honest opinion of their com-
plaints. No experimenting ;no mercury used. A positive
cure guaranteed or forfeit £2OO. His vast experience
tells him that where there is no organic disease, and
nothing but an inorganic trouble, or, in other words, a
conglomeration of symptoms producing a certain result,
there is no reason why it cannot be removed with the
proper remedies: therefore ho guarantees. He claims to
be the most skilful and successful physician in N.S.W. in
his particular speciality, viz., the CHRONIC and SPECIAL
DISEASES of MEN and WOMEN. Examination and
advice free to all. Charges moderate. Office Hours-10
a.m. to 12 a.m.; 2to 4 and 7 to 8p m. Sunday, 10 to
11 a.m. only.
Nervous XSe’fctili/fcy.
Consult Dr. Speer in all cases of NERVOUSNESS through
indiscretion, for his many years of practice with this
dreadful disease enables him to remove all traces of it and
to return the victims to full VIGOUR, HEALTH and
MANHOOD.
N.B.—TWENTY SHILLINGS is sufficient to send for
remedies necessary for the cure of NERVOUS DEBILITY.
DR. SPEER will forward, post free, at ss. per box, or
21s. for five boxes, the following celebrated pills:—
1. AMERICAN “VITAL ” PILLS, for nervous debility,
lost vitality, sexual weakness, errors, &c.
2. AMERICAN “PRIVATE” PILLS, for discharges,
contagious sores and blood diseases.
3. “FEMALE” PILLS for irregularities and obstruc-
tions.
4. AMERICAN STOMACH, LIVER, and KIDNEY
PILLS, 2s. 6d. per box.
df
dfd
HRUPP
Chain
a
Sa
\^\
fd
fdf
IF SO,
DON’T MISS THIS!
What everyone says, is bound to be true, and young
and old, rich and poor, physicians who recommend, and
patients who try
The Krupp Galvanic Chain Belt,
All agree in praising that most scientific of Electro
Therapeutical Appliances. For Rheumatism it is un-
rivalled. Lumbago at once succumbs to its power. The
Nervous are strengthened and the Debilitated restored to
perfect health and vigour. In short, the appliance is an
unfailing cure for all Nervous, Sexual, or Chronic Diseases,
and is GUARANTEED to ABSOLUTELY CURE, com-
pletely and lastingly, the following complaints;
Dyspepsia, Ncurahjia, Pains in the Back and Chest,
Lumbago, Catarrh, Rheumatism, Dumb Ague,
Nervous Debility, Paralysis, Kidney Complaint,
Spinal Disease, Female Weakness, Diseases of the
Liver, Impotence, Seminal Weakness, Diabetes,
Sciatica, Atrophy, Gout, Indigestion, Asthma, Piles,
Epilepsy Spermatorrhoea, Specks before the Eyes,
Excessive Heart Palpitation, Defective Memory.
An Unfailing Cure For Varicocele.
It is a PORTABLE BODY BATTERY, and contains
special appliances for both sexes; therefore, why waste
your money and health hy procuring and taking USELESS
DRUGS? Electricity, when properly applied, is acknow-
ledged hy all leading and unprejudiced physicians to be
the only safe and radical cure for Nervous and Sexual
Diseases, and the thousands of testimonials received by
the Krupp Belt Co. from leading personages throughout
Australasia prove the unquestionable curative properties
of Electricity as applied by theappliance above referred to.
Our confidence in this appliance is so complete, that
we send the Belt out on trial, and guarantee it
to give perfect satisfaction. For full particulars as to
terms, etc., send for our large illustrated treatise, free,
in which these Belts are fully illustrated, the action of
electricity on the nervous system explained, and a lot of
useful information on nervous and sexual diseases given.
This treatise also contains facsimile of testimonials received
from some of our clients who have tried our Belts. The
originals of these testimonials produced on applica tion.
The prices of the Krupp Galvanic Chain Belt and
Suspensory are from £l.
Sole Inventor .... Carl Krupp.
Business Manager . . A. W. Courtney.
Address all communicaUons to the
Krupp Galvanic Chain Belt Co.,
Box C 47, G.P.0., Sydney, N.S.W.
Remember—The K.G. Chain Belt cures ivithout medicine,
is easy to wear, is sent on approval, and the first cost is
the only cost.
JOE RADIES
AND ALL PERSONS
With.a Delicate Ski.ni
MOUSONS
COCOA BUTTERSOAP
Cocoa Butter Soap is a real skin-beautifler, and a balm to
young and old alike.
MOUSON & CO., PERFUMERS & TOILET SOAP MANUFACTURERS,
FRANK FORT-ON-TIIK-MATNK.
LONDON: 82 & 83 lIAMSF.LL-ST., E.C. PARIS: 29 RUE RADZIWILL*
Full guarantee for perfect purity is offered by the
sole Manufacturers, Mouson & Co.
JULIUS GOLDSCHMIDT & CO.,
231 CLARENCE-ST., SYDNEY,
SOLE AGENTS FOR AUSTRALASIA.
“ A Golden Shanty.”
PRICE-ONE SHILLING.


No other medicine is so reliable as Ayer’s Cherry
Pectoral, for the cure of coughs, colds, and all
derangements of the respiratory organs. It relieves
the asthmatic and consumptive, even in advanced
stages of disease.
Charlemont and Co., high art photographers,
Royal Arcade, altogether owe their measure of
success to the fact that the merits of their photo-
graphy are always of a high order.
Ladies’ Silver Watches, 355. Daiims & Co., King-street
Arcade.
Hope for the Deaf.
Nicholsons Improved Patented Artificial
Ear Drums. The only sure, easy, and unseen
device used to permanently restore hearing and
to cure noises in the head. Recommended by
scientific men of Europe and America. Write
for free illustrated descriptive book to J. 11.
Nicholson, 175 William street, Melbourne.
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
Ladies’ Silver Watches, 355. Dahms & Co., King-street
Arcade.
Use Batho’s P>aking Powder.
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
NOTICE.
pH ERRY-BLOSSOM,
v By the Author of “Madam’s Wax’d,” &c.
Is continued in
TIAMILY HERALD PART for MAY,
.1 which contains also the continuation of
Q WEN DALE’S ORDEAL.
A NEW NOVEL,
iX By the Author of “ A Bitter Reckoning,” &c.
Also, complete Stories, Essays, Answers to
Correspondents, Cookery, Miscellanea, Enigmas,
Charades, Riddles. &o.
1,1 A MIL Y HERALD PART for MAY.
X 1 The Australasian says
“Tir’s favourite domestic magazine retains all
its old interest and variety.”
The
TIAMILY HERALD may be had in Half-yeai’ly
X Volumes and in Monthly Parts of all Colonial
Booksellers and Newsagents ; or the Monthly Part
direct from W. -Stevens, 421 Strand, London,
England, for 14s. per annum, post free.
London; W. Stevens, 421 Strand; and at all
Newsvendors.
Government Advertisements.
Department of Public Works,
Sydney, July 9, 1890.
riTENDERS FOR PUBLIC WORKS AND
SUPPLIES.
For Conditions, see Government Gazette.
TENDERS for the Works, &0., specified below
will be received at this Department until 11 o’clock
a.m. on the dates mentioned.
WEDNESDAY, JULY IG.
Works, Nyngan-G6bar
Railway
Plans, &c., to be seen at
I the office of Engineer-in-
j Chief, Railway Construe-
jtion Branch.
Manufacture, &c., ot a Steel Bridge over Yass
River in Connection with the Tramway
WEDNESDAY, JULY 23.
Works, Kiama-Nowra
Railway
(
Plans, &c., can be seen
at the above office of
the Engineer-m-Chief
Erection of Timber Bridge, with hinged span, for
Belrnore Biver, near Gladstone.
Additions, &c,, Court-house, Barraba
Additions Court-house, Broken Hill
Erection of Post and Telegraph Office, Temora
Construction of a Channel to carry off flood waters
near Kellick Creek, Macleay River
Bridges, Nos. 2, 3 and 4, in Approaches to Nar-
randera Bridge
Bridge over Gilargarabone Greek, road Coonamble
to Dubbo
Erection of Post and Telegraph Office, Hunter’s
Hill
Erection of Lodge, Centennial Park
Erection of Gates, Rand wick-road, Centennial
Park
Erection of Engineer’s Residence, Pumping
Station, Lismore Water Works
Wharf, Bateman’s Bay, Erection
Additions, &0., Post and Telegraph Office, Wind-
sor.
Culvert over creek near Greendale, road Manly to
Pittwater
Bridge, Eulah Creek, road Narrabri to Eulah
WEDNESDAY, AUGUST 0.
Bridge, Hunter River at Aberdeen —Contract
No. I—Manufacture of Ironwork. &c. Con-
tract No. 2—Erection of Bridge.
Additions, &c., Police Barracks, Lambton
Repairs, &c., Court-house and Lock-up, Hillston
Bridge over Deep Greek, road Condobolin to
WaggaWagga. (Fresh tenders.)
Alterations and dditions to Long Cove Bridge,
West Maitland
Construction of Swimming Bath, Cockatoo Island,
in connection with N.S.S. Vernon
Erection of Post and Telegraph Office, Kogarah.
(Fresh tenders.)
Bridge Belar Creek, road Nyngan to Oanonbar
WEDNESDAY, AUGUST 20.
Bridge, Darling River at Wentworth—Contract
No. I—Manufacture, &c., Steel Lift Span on
Iron Piers. Contract No. 2—Erection of
Lift Span, &c., &c.
Finishing Trades, New Lands Office, Sydney.
Additions Post Office, Gosford
Erection of Police Buildings and Lockup, Uralla
Erection of Court and Watch-house, St. Albans.
Erection of Court and Watch-house, Robertson
WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 15.
Manufacture and Supply of 48-inch Wrought-
iron Water Pipes, special eastings, &c. (Offers
may also be submitted for pipes of steel.) Con-
tract No. 72, Sydney Water Supply. (Dupli-
cation of Pipe Line, Potts Hill to Sydney)
Manufacture and Supply of 48-inoh Cast-iron
Water Pipes, special castings, &o.—Contract
No. 73, Sydney Water Supply. (Duplication
of Pipe Line, Potts Hill to Sydney.)
In the event of tenderers not being prepared to
complete the above services within specified time
they may name a date for the completion, which
will be considered when the offers are being dealt
with.
BRUCE SMITH.
CORRESPONDENCE
“ S. T ” : You can’t get big interest and
good security. Put your money elsewhere “Lake
Creek”: May all Queensland eat meat four times a day
before exporting any —to paraphrase O’Shanassy ...
“ Warbreokan ”: There is a general idea that we must
have territorial divisions for the popular Assembly. The
so-called Upper, but in reality Lower, House might very
well be constructed on the Hare system, so as to give
every eminent Australian an absolute certainty of
election, not subject to the caprice of any locality...
“New Chum”: Your artless disregard for the conven-
tionalities of metre and rhyme endears your verse to the
waste-paper basket “ R.P.P.” : You say it is not your
“first attempt,” but we trust it will he your last....
“0.A.K.”: We absolutely loathe dead shepherds and
boundary-riders; your verse is most uneven “Towns-
ville”; Thanks, will see what can be done
“T. Reagh”: Peccavimus !... “E. Glynn” (Moonta);
“ When a man has failed at everything else he takes to
journalism.” Perhaps, but to the man who succeeds as a
journalist all things are open “ Balaclava ” : The men
have been neglected for 36 years. Let us put up in the
cemetery a magnificent monument to the Starved....
“ Mark Dodds ” : The Bulletin doesn’t greatly sympathise
with a hungry young man who breaks a £3O window
because he wants to get into gaol, when he could achieve
the same result by tearing’ a policeman’s three-pound-
seventeen-and-sixpenny uniform, or saying “ booh ” to an
alderman “ J. 5.0.” (Newcastle) : Many thanks....“ One
of the Bullock-drivers ” : That’s often the way. Somebody
kicks the boss and then the boss kicks the office-boy. The
boss gives away a fiver in charity and cuts it off the
station-hands’ tobacco-figs.... “ Demos”; Oh, yes, it is a
crime against the public to sell watered spirits instead of
spirits of standard strength, just in the same way as it is
a crime to sell milk-and-water in the guise of milk. It
you don’t admit this, then you must contend that it is
against public policy to sell spirits at all. In that case let
us be honest and prohibit the liquor-traffic absolutely.
Would it not be a crime from a teetotal point of
view to sell to an abstainer lemonade mixed with
whisky—when it was only whisky he wanted?....
“The Towers”: The oath is a mere remnant of super-
stition, like the scaffold. People are no more specially
bound by one than they are deterred by the other. A
witness, inclined to lie, is deterred only by the certainty
of detection “B.B.”: We share your admiration for
“The Wives of Weinsburg.” “A Sufferer”: You are
evidently too fond of law. The dreadfully unsuccessful
character of your four unnecessary actions may teach you
that (as several N.S.W. attorneys have lately found, to
their own costs) that it doesn’t always pay to play the
policeman in your own house....“ Cremation ”: Three-
quarters of the soil —to adapt Oliver Wendell Holmes
—has walked the other quarter as consumptive patients
sowing the seeds of phthisis in their path.... “C.J.C.” :
Will look at it....“E. Gain”: Many thanks....
“Minx” (W.A.): Many thanks “G.L.” (Wiseman’s
Creek); Parkes’ political history has, during the past ten
years, been liberally dealt with in our columns “ 0.R.”
(Kumara): Messrs. Elkington & Cos., George-street, would
tell you. ..“Inquiry”: There was no suspicion of foul
play whatever, and Mr. Melhado was in so weak a-state
that it is quite likely he fainted and fell out of the
window “M.M.”: Verse is always paid for by the
foot - sometimes by the editor’s foot “0.M.”: No
further news. The cable as to the disappearance of Mount
Shasta is, of course, a canard “ Who Steals my Purse
Steals Trash ”: In discussing the question of Reseigh
Martin’s sentence for libel-two years’ hard labour,
the greatest penalty allowable under the N.S.W.
Criminal Law—you have first to consider whether Martin
has committed the worst kind of libel. You must have a
very dull imagination indeed if you cannot conceive libels
ten thousand times more iniquitous : say, for instance,
that of the man who should falsely make such a charge
as was lately preferred against a clergyman and a lady in a
now notorious case. Unless Martin committed the maxi
mum offence it was surely wrong to give him the maximum
sentence.... “ Darling Pea ”: A tough problem, on which
much may be written.. . “A.M.E.”: The worst cases of
distress among the unemployed are those of the workers
who minister to luxury in some shape or form...
“ J.E.M.” ; Received “ Keeley Gordon ” : To hand.
“ Martin Robertson ” : Your thoughtful letter is under
consideration... “R. Brandon ”; We are sorry to say we
can’t. Will mail your letter to America.... “ Quaestio”:
It depends on the person in whose name it stands. Pro-
bably the vendor has taken all sorts of care to make it
stand in your name.
The late Ambrose Kyte, who started the
Burke and Wills expedition with a donation of
£1000, was on the box-seat of a Colling wood
omnibus once and insisted on the driver giving
him a penny change out of a fourpenny-piece. He
used to publicly boast that when he first arrived in
Melbourne he earned 10s. a week at barrow-wheel-
ing and saved half of it.
Things one would rather have left unsaid—
as, for instance, when Her Majesty Victoria in-
cautiously remarked that a quarter of a thimble-
ful of whisky, diluted with half-a-pint of Snooks’
mercurialopolis (or some other), water suited her
stomach better than champagne ; since which it
has been advertised like Holloway’s pills, and Her
Majesty cannot take up a newspaper without
finding herself associated with whisky.
“History is a fable agreed upon.” All
the paintings of Waterloo show Wellington and
staff in plumed hats, and indeed Wellington lent
his plumed hat to painters; but in after years he
recollected that he and his staff were without
plumes at Waterloo, the plumes being mounted
afterwards in Paris, because Blucher and staff
had them.
A London paper reports that “the Eng-
lish language was used in the recent treaty between
Russia and China.” We would be glad to know if
this can’t be stopped, as we don’t care much for
our language after a Chinaman has been using it.
No respectable white man would care to have a
dog mix the bread for him, and to be compelled to
use a language that a Mongol has borrowed to
express his opium and his leprosy is at least forty
times more disagreeable.
The moral of this story is that when a man
goes to see a girl and wants to keep the affair
quiet he shouldn’t leave his dog sitting on the door-
step. There is a young man at Auckland (N.Z.)
who used to spend three evenings a week at the
house of the girl he was engaged to, and the other
three evenings he spent at the house of the other
girl, and the scheme worked well enough till the
first girl began to notice that his dog spent half its
time on the other girl’s doorstep. The circum-
stance led to inquiry, and finally she appealed to
her big brother to invent some outrageous and in-
genious form of insult which would express their
feelings on the subject —some wide, elaborate ex-
pression of contempt which would take in the
young man and the other girl and the dog, indivi-
dually, jointly and collectively, and fill the bill
allround. The big brother was rather lacking in
ingenuity, but he did the best he could. Next
evening, when the treacherous youth was standing
with his hat in his hand on the other girl’s door-
step, and bidding her a reluctant farewell, some-
body gently took the hat from him, and jumped
on the top of it, and handed it back, and then stood
up against the wall in a negligent attitude as if
he was waiting to state the reasons of his conduct.
The farewell was broken off abruptly, and there
was such a difficulty about explaining away the
outrage that the young man has never called on
either of the girls since.
MR. R. HOPE ATKINSON,
OF THE U.S. EQUITABLE INSURANCE CO.
Robert Hope Atkinson, whose portrait appears
above, was educated in insurance business at
the offices of the Royal Insurance Company, Lon-
don. He came to Sydney six years ago to open a
branch of the New York Equitable Life Society,
of which office his management has elicited the
warmest eulogiums from Director Scott, who has
come from America on a tour of inspection. Mr.
Atkinson, who has lately joined the Benedicks, is
now on his way to Singapore and Chinese ports,
where he will open branches which will be under
the conti’ol of the Sydney office.
Judge Docker (N.S.W.) has just lined a
man £20 or three months for criminal libel. In
other words, it is worth just £113s. 4d. a week to
stay out of gaol.
The Earl of Carnarvon, ivho departed a
few days ago to stay with Abraham and other
ancient Jews, was a harmless person, aged 59.
During his political career he was always on the
point of doing something and never did it, but he
was a moderately successful orator—that is, he
had nothing particular to say and he said it in a
series of short barks. He was generally regarded,
however, as a cautious and reliable statesman, for
he always went to sleep at a crisis and never woke
till it was over. He was a member of one or two
Governments, and when he retired and several
clerks helped him to carry his initials downstairs,
he was kindly remembered in the department as a
gentlemanly person with an umbrella, who used to
come in and hang round in an aimless way, and
then go out again. Many of his friends regarded
him as a literary individual, for he would occa-
sionally write a massive essay about some old
dead object; or else he would perpetrate a book
about the early history, rise, and progress of the
village of Chump’s Ditch, a parochial district
where public opinion was still agitated over the
question whether their moon was the same one
that shone in London or not; and once or twice he
translated a Greek poem which htid been trans*
lated 182 times already, and reorganised that
poem m a way which would have made the author
die of indignation if he could only have seen it in
print. He weighed about ISfilbs., and of such is
the Kingdom of Heaven.
Eugene Field, Sir Arthur Sullivan’s new
librettist, vice W. S. Gilbert, relates that when
young Emperor William was in England last year
a British officer detailed to attend to him on one
very wet day kept putting his hand to his jaw as
if he were in pain. Presently the Emperor
asked: “Are you ill ? You seem to be in pain.”
“ May it please your majesty,” said the officer ;
“ I am suffering greatly. At breakfast to-day
a filling came out of, one of my back teeth, and,
having been detailed to attend upon you, I have
not yet had an opportunity to secure relief from
the pain which the uncovering of the nerve has
precipitated.” “ My dear fellow,” cried the Em-
peror, cordially, “ you shah suffer no longer,
(fere, take this and stuff it into that tooth at
once.” With which words the Emperor pulled
the plug of cotton out of one of his ears and
handed part of it to the officer. There was but
one thing for the officer to do ; the mere sugges-
tion of royalty admits of no alternative to
obedience.
Art is long and man is short, which is
probably a fortunate circumstance, for if man
were long also his clothes would cost a good deal
more than they do at present. Further, there
seems to be a reasonable chance that if man
doesn’t keep his eye open, he may ultimately- be-
come a good deal shorter than he is at present, for
a new disease has been discovered which pro-
mises to wipe him out in a premature sort of way
and obliterate him off the earth. It is a hidden
complaint with no outward symptoms, attended
by no suffering in any form, which silently gnaws
at his vitals, probably for years, till at last it
culminates in a volcanic burst-up so sudden and
so desperate that not even a vestige of the patient
is left anywhere. The discoverer claims that
hundreds of mysterious disappearances take place
every year owing to the ravages of this bowelless
agency of death. He quotes cases of men who
have waited placidly into a room which had only
one outlet, and never emerged again ; and when
someone else went in a moment later they weren’t
there, and they never were anywhere in all the wide
earth again, for they had exploded into impalpable
dust and left not even the shadow of a footprint
behind. He tells a thrilling narrative of a man
who went-up a ladder while another man stood at
the bottom, and presently this second individual
discovered that the ladder was empty, and only a
paint-pot falling from a vanished hand came down
with a solemn, funereal thud to tell that a soul had
departed and that a human being had melted
away like a snowball in Gehenna or a pound of
butter struck by a burning comet. But probably
the most pitiful example of the lot is that of a
young bride who disappeared one wet night in
evening dress and left nothing but a despairing
family behind her. She was going to the theatre,
and her father saw her off in a cab while her
husband wanted to meet her, but he only met an
empty vehicle and had 2s. fid. to pay for the
carriage of a lady who was heard of nevermore. It
was generally considered that a lady in ball attire
could hardly scramble out of a rapidly-moving
vehicle and fasten the door behind her without
being observed, so it was presumed that some
mysterious fate had blown her ashes away.
And—inost convincing of all—the discoverer
avers that he himself actually witnessed
a similar case of disappearance. He was
walking along a country road, arm-in-arm
with a friend, when his companion suddenly
stopped short in the middle of a sentence, and
looking round he discovered that no one was there.
His clothes were also absent. He looked with a
horrified gaze down the road, but it was empty
and deserted. He glared up the road, but nothing
was to be seen except a dog looking for a flea on
his tail. As his friend presented no resemblance
to that animal, and had never been seen to look
for anything on his tail, he necessarily concluded
that this was an entirely different affair. He
gazed across the fields on either side and saw only
an old goat eating grass, and the lost one was not
partial to grass, and seldom regarded that vege-
table as an article of diet. The years rolled on
and the mystery remained unexplained, and all
that is known is that the vanished person was and
is not, and never seems likely to be again, and
that he didn’t leave even enough traces behind to
a tombstone over, or to afford a basis for a
lying epitaph.
Queer printer’s error. From the Pkess
(Pretoria, South Africa) :—•
ASSAULT.
J. Smit, a native, had pulled some wood from the head
of a man named Johnson and then assaulted him. It
appeared from the police records, that the accused was
continuously assaulting others in the street. Sentence
20s. or 14 days’ hard labour.
THEFT OP WOOD.
E. G. Rocher, when charged with the above crime, said
that he merely found some wood lying on the market,
which he picked up. When he was questioned by P. 0.
Pickstsr at the time, he said that he had bought the
wood from J. Ackma.
The accused finding that there was something wrong,
escaped into some bushes near by. This happened on
Saturday evening, and the accused was arrested yesterday
morning on the market. Sentence 14 days’ hard labour.
FREETRADE or PROTECTION.
Some vote Protection, some Ereetrade,
As best for this young country’s weal.
But ask the youth or blushing maid,
And each will answer — Pemell’s Meal !
As best, because it has been tried,
There’s nothing half so good beside.
His Golden Meal is what I mean,
’Tis good and pure and cheap, I wean.


df
%
1
W7/4£k
's^zsy/,
&/a
1
#"' $
» '■//
m.
m
m
m
If^li
"*7*S
po
df
The Sacred Alligator of Glenhogie.
A Story of the Far North.
[ FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Glenboote station, on the Lochiel River, in the
Gulf of Carpentaria, was noted for one thing, and
that was—alligators.
The station existed in the old Gulf days, before
the desertion took place. It was situated at the
head of tidal waters, on the very bank of the river,
and at the back of the place was a large lagoon
whence the supply of fresh water was obtained.
Other stations might claim superiority in the
matter of snakes, mosquitoes, and sandflies, but
Glenbogie was alone and pre-eminent in its alli-
gators. They were sociable brutes. They thought
nothing of wandering round the hut at night and
going to sleep in the verandah, and it was quite a
common thing to tumble over one in the dark. If
a man lost a boot, or a pipe, or the leg of his
trousers, he just said : “Oh ! d the alliga-
tors,” and thought no more of it.
As time went on the alligators kept increasing,
and grew tamer and tamer. The men could not
find it in their hearts to shoot them, and the
saurians led such a jolly, hail-fellow-well-met,
kind of existence that gradually strange alligators
from other rivers came to hear of it, and when
they visited the place they liked it so well that
they stayed. There was a good understanding
The other alligators would never touch a beast until
Buddha had a look at it.”
that they were never to touch the station cattle,
or horses, but outsiders who strayed there used to
suffer, of course.
They were very particular. They had a clever
old alligator amongst them who could read brands
and tell ear-marks, and the other alligators would
never touch a beast until he’d had a look at it.
“The rum soon took effect upon him.”
He was an awful age, and was getting weak-
sighted, so the super made him a pair of spectacles
out of the lenses of a field-glass, and after that he
could read print halfway across the river.
Naturally, the other stations got jealous and
spread all manner of yarns about, and declared
that the fellows ran in strange horses and cattle
on purpose to keep the alligators in good temper,
but this was a libel. As the men said, they
encouraged the alligators to keep the native dogs
down ; and it was a fact that there were no dogs
about the place.
The coloured cook in particular was very_ fond
of the alligators, and he first drew attention to
the old patriarch, and the way the other alligators
used to watch him and wait on him.
The jackeroo said he’d read about tanks of
sacred alligators in India, and that he thought
this must be the one who had swam over. So he
was christened Buddha, and after he had heard
that the cook fairly worshipped him.
Buddha was just as fond of the cook ; he’d
come up and lie over on his side for the cook to
pull ticks out of him that he had picked up in
the mangroves. At meal-time he would be there
in the doorway and catch pieces that were thrown
to him just the same as a dog. On killing days
Buddha always came up to the yard and kept
order amongst the other alligators. Every time
after he went in the river he’d come up to the
cook to have his spectacles wiped and dried.
Things went on as peaceably as possible until
Christmas time, and a very hot summer it was.
ihe dray came up from Burketown with a few
luxuries and a keg of rum, and there was a little
bit of a spree.
The cook thought that it was very hard that
poor old Buddha should be out of it, so he saved
up half his share of the grog and persuaded some
of the men to do the same, then he mixed it with
a little water and poured it down Buddha’s
throat. Now, although it was kindly meant, it
was a foolish thing to do, because all through his
long life Buddha had always been, like E. J. H.
Knapp, a strict water-drinker, and, of course, the
rum soon took effect upon him.
First of all he got very quarrelsome, and thrashed
one of the other alligators with his tail because he
thought he was making faces at him. i hen he got
jovial and tried to sing, and would put his fore-
arm round a young alligator’s neck and slobber
him all over. The other ones were frightfully dis-
gusted and couldn’t make out what had happened
to the old fellow, and when he made himself such
a nuisance they all retired to the river with old
Buddha waddling after them calling them all the
names he could think of, and offering to fight them
singlehanded or in couples.
When the cook saw what a fool Buddha made of
himself he felt very mad because he knew how the
old fellow would feel it in the morning, particu-
larly if he remembered the language he had used.
Next morning Buddha was up just after day-
light, and the cook had a billy of strong tea ready
for him ; the poor, old boy lapped it down as
gratefully as possible, crying all the time fit to
break his heart. When ho had finished he gave
two or three big sobs, wagged his tail very mourn-
fully, and went back to the river.
We all thought he’d just gone back for a camp
but he never turned up through the day, neither
did any of the others ; so we knew that something
serious had happened. Next morning a young
alligator brought up Buddha’s spectacles, laid
them in the verandah and went away again.
That sent the cook down altogether. He said
that poor old Buddha’s heart had been broken by
shame, and he must have committed suicide, and
that he (the cook) was the unhappy cause. He
neglected his work and would sit fur hours weep-
ing over Buddha’s spectacles. One morning he
was found dead. He had hung himself with the
chain on the killing gallows. He left a will say-
“ The cook neglected his work and would sit for
hours weeping over Buddha’s spectacles.’
ing that his money was to be devoted to erecting
a tombstone over his grave with the inscription
Lstating that the deceased had died out of sorrow
for the loss of his friend Buddha, whose remains
filled an unknown grave somewhere ; and at the
end he wanted a ver-e of scripture put in some-
thing about their being lovely and pleasant in
their lives and in death they were not divided.
“He went up to the grave, and laid his head on the
mound, and wept till his tears made a great pool."
The cook was buried near the stockyard, and
about a fortnight afterwards who should be there
in the verandah at daylight, waiting for the door
to be opened, but Buddha ; and on the bank and
round about were all the other alligators, just the
same as before. When the man opened the door
old Buddha smiled quite pleasantly, and he had a
lovely smile for an alligator ; then he wagged his
tail and seemed delighted to see all hands again.
Everybody was sorry about the cook and didn’t
know how to tell Buddha, who was getting very
anxious and wanted to come inside the hut. The
super, brought him his spectacles and put them
on, and this pleased the old chap mightily, you
could see, but it was not all he wanted. At last
one of the fellows thought of taking a gun, and an
axe, and a bucket, and going up the yard as
though it was killing-time.
This fetched Buddha, who toddled up after
them at once; When he got to the yard he saw
the new-made grave; for they came round that
way purposely, and suddenly it seemed to dawn
upon him what had happened.
You never saw anything so moved. He went
up to the grave, laid his head on the mound, and
cried till his tears made a great pool. There he
stopped day and night ; the men tempted him
with bits of meat, but he wouldn’t eat, and the
other alligators all tried to comfort him, but it
was useless. Buddha lay there on the grave for
a fortnight, and then he was found dead one
morning.
He was buried (in pie ces) in the cook’s grave,
and the super, wrote down to Sydney to have
some more words inscribed on the tombstone.
Soon after that the country was abandoned, and
it’s not at all likely that the tombstone still re-
mains to witness to the truth of this yarn.
GEORGE WASHINGTON.


df
a
m
m.
f .
I
‘M
im*
x
i*
m
'X
§
t* \
m
i
»
JfcfW-
THE BEST
BEVERAGE
FOR
CHILDREN
.Absolutely fure.
CADBURY’S COCOA is closely allied to
milk in the large proportion of flesh-forming and
strength-sustaining elements that it contains. It is pre-
pared on the principle of excluding the superabundance
of fatty indigestible matter with which Cocoa abounds
—supplying a refined thin infusion of absolutely pure
Cocoa, exhilarating and refreshing, for Breakfast, Lun-
cheon, Tea or Supper, giving staying power and im-
parting new life and vigour to growing children, and
those of delicate constitutions.
Notice to Artistic and Literary Contributors.
Strictly Original matter contributed to The Bulletin
will be paid for. The Editor will be glad to receive and
consider contributions as under ;—
1. Original humorous or political matter, illustrated or
otherwise. (Drawings must be made in clean lines
of Indian ink on white paper or Bristol-board.)
2. Unpublished anecdotes of living celebrities, or people
who ought to be celebrated.
3. Humorous poems (from eight to forty-eight lines pre-
ferred ).
h. Serious poems, of similar or greater length, especially
those suitable for pictorial illustration.
5. Short Australian or other stories, up to, say, 3000
words. About half that length, or even less, will
be preferred.
All Contributions must be Written Legibly, on One
Side Only of the paper, and folded, not rolled. The
name and address of the writer must appear, in all
cases, on the MS. itself, and not merely on an accompany-
ing letter or paper. The Proprietors do not hold them-
selves responsible for Rejected Contributions; but, if
accompanied by a stamped and addressed envelope or
wrapper, every effort will be made to return them.
The Editor does not undertake to enter into any
correspondence respecting rejected Manuscripts.
When a wily counsel in the Melbourne
Supreme Court was arguing against Colonel
Templeton’s right to charge the Premier Building
Society prosecution against the assets he suggested—
“ supposing that when these cases are dismissed ”
Before the learned gentleman could improve upon
the innocent idea he was cut short by Judge Ho 1 .-
royd observing—“l am not at liberty to suppose
any such thing.”
Messrs. Bradlaugh and Banner opposed
the passage of the Pease Bill for the registration of
midwives on account of a clause providing that
every woman applying to be registered as a mid-
wife should bring proof of being of good moral
character, as certified by a magistrate or clergy-
man, or some other minister of religion. Doctors
are not examined as to morality, while clergymen
are, and taking all circumstances into consideration
the morality of the former compares favourably
with the latter.
Says Melbourne Daily Telegraph in a
sub-leader on Stanley’s marriage, which measures
a column
But Miss Dorothy Tennant, too, is in her feminine way
heroic. She waited for her lover, without hint or gesture
to tell her secret, during those three distressful years ;
and a lady who can keep a secret—and such a secret!—so
long, and so well, has plainly qualities unshared by her
sex at large.
All this slobber is thrown away ; according to
Stanley himself he did not propose to the lady
until his return.
Land at Perth, W.A., the best Investment
Plans from Intercolonial Investment 00., Ltd.
96 Bathurst-street, Sydney.
Amusement of a profitable nature. Ladies,
make your own dresses by procuring one of our
dress stands ; they are indispensable for altering,
trimming, and I’e-arranging dresses. They are, in
fact, a household necessity. We make them to
fold up so as to go in trunks. Write for parti-
culars to East way Brothers, Dress Stand Makes, r
411 George-street, Sydney.
The great Mongolian invasion is post-
poned. The leper is still building ponderous
ironclads and assuming an attitude which suggests
that he is going to tread somebody in the dust, but
at latest advices everything is in mad confusion,
and unless Joss comes to the rescue the prospects
of the great Chinese navy are far from gay. Half-
a-dozen huge ships are rusting in harbour because
nobody knows how to get them out. The boss
mandarin has to holler on deck for three weeks
before anybody can find out how to raise the
anchor, and when it is raised the vessel drifts on
shore and has to he dragged off by 11 junks. The
engineer pokes idiotically among the machinery to
try and find out how to get up st - : am, and finally
the captain gets mad and executes him,
When the furnace is choked with ashes the
fireman concludes that it is the will of
Confucius and lets the fire go out, and when
anything breaks it is tied up with a bit of
string or else propped up with a brick. If the
steam escapes somehow where it shouldn’t escape
somebody drives a cork in to stop the leakage, and
if one of the deck-houses lets the rain in some-
body else puts a tree-trunk on top of the hole. If
the structure threatens to give way under the
load it is shoved up with a dozen logs planted
against it outside, and if the props threaten to
slip a big stone is put at the end of each one as a
support. If the whole thing collapses in spite of
these supports the Chinaman sits down on top of
the ruins and says it is the will of Joss. The
pumps are generally out of order, and when the
ironclad leaks the crew have to go down into
the bowels of the ship and mop it up with
a dish-rag. Now and then one of these war-
like vessels gets out under sail, but if a
storm comes on the captain has to blow
the canvas off with dynamite, for it would take
him forty days to reduce it in the ordinary way.
There are usually some eight gallons of slops in
the b : g gun, and when they load it won’t go off,
and then someone goes to the end of it and looks
in to see what is the matter. Just at that moment
the old weapon goes off for the only time in its
life, and through the smoke a small piece of yellow-
coloured meat is observed flying at the clouds.
These are only a few of the smaller difficulties of
the Chinese navy, and until they are overcome the
invasion of Australia is a postponed enterprise.
Thomas Doolan, of Kyneton (Yic.\ is a
plain, unpretentious individual who wasn’t in-
tended for a hero of romance, but after reading
his case as reported at the police-court last week
we consider that the Six Hundred weren’t a patch
on him. Thomas didn’t come in with the Con-
queror, nor are his legs exhausted with the dance
at Governor Hopetoun’s balls —in fact, he isn’t
known in the higher circles at all, and he hasn’t
got a crest with an ash-heap rampant on it. But
the other day, when he came in after feeding the
old sow, he found his two married daughters and
another girl removing the crockery and packing it
in a cart, and he stated in evidence that they
were fond of coming round and doing something
of the sort. In fact, he represented that they
would remove almost anything, and if left alone
they might even scratch the arable soil off the
property and carry that away, and he didn’t know
for certain that the house itself was safe. Thomas
objected to the vanishment of the crockery on
the ground that he didn’t want to take his tea out
of a bucket, and then the two married daughters
seized his whiskers in front and the other girl fas-
tened on to his coat-tails behind. Mr. Doolansays
he didn’t want to hit them even then, which shows
a gentlemanly sentiment on his part; but the cir-
cumstances were urgent, and he knocked the three
of them down four times. As they went down,
however, they clung tenaciously to his whiskers,
and when he rose again he lifted them still sus-
pended by his hair, and in the course of the con-
flict Mr. Doolan became bald in spots. Once the
three ladies got Mr. Doolan down, and then they
made arrangements whereby two of them were to
hold him while the third “leathered” him, but
the unhappy parent got up and renewed the con-
flict. A good deal of furniture was broken in the
course of the campaign, and the combatants sent
the fragments flying here and there across the
room as they tramped about and jumped at eacli
other._ One of the daughters rashly inserted her
hand in the mouth of the bereaved Thomas, but
that hard-fighting householder closed his teeth
with a sudden crunch which made her take her ex-
tremity out again in haste. The proceedings of the
girl who held Mr. Doolan by the coat-tail arc not
accurately recorded, but when Mr. Doolan was
borne suddenly backward by the vengeful on-
slaught of the two married daughters it probably
went hard with her. As for the married daughters
themselves, the ten minutes during which they
clung to their progenitor’s whiskers seems to have
been the most tempestuous period in theT lives.
At last, however, the whole four fell in a heap at
the foot of the stairs and rolled convulsively over
and over on top of eacli other, and then they
separated and Thomas was summoned for assault.
He appeared in a swollen and indignant state and
furnished the above evidence, but apparently the
two married daughters and the girl who clutched
him in the rear had also something to say, for the
insulted and concussed defendant was fined one
shilling.
Seymour (Vic.) Express complains that a
Bulletin artist lately spelt “until” with six
letters. Politeness is absolutely thrown away on
some people. Our artist, in placing two “I’s” at
tlmend of the word in question merely intended a
.delicate compliment to Major Smith formerly
Minister of Education, in the Express’ colony,
who used to spell it that way. The Major used
also to do a lot of other things—for instance, he
used to spell “recommend” with only one “m.”
The Bulletin is not going to perish for want of
an excuse.
It is reported that the Mansergh scheme
for draining “ Smellbourne ” provides for running
the sewage into Hobson’s Bay. If so, shipping
paragraphs of the future will read thusly :
The s.s. Buster, from London, with a full passenger-list
and large cargo, entered Port PhTip Heads yesterday, at
9 a.in., but, on proceeding up the bay, she grounded on a
shoal of defunct cats. In attempting - to get off, her pro-
peller stirred up the component parts of the shoal to such
an extent-that the passengers and crew were obliged to
take refuge in the air-tight compartments of the vessel to
avoid asphyxiation. The cats have now settled down
again, and, as there will be a spring-tide to-night, hopes
are entertained that the steamer will be got off about mid-
night.
The grand old smellfull Yarra is beginning
to lose some of its noblest characteristics. A few
years ago the odours of that ancient river were
absolutely unique. Persons who had successfully
encountered the most blasting and soul-destroying
scents of Europe and Asia came long distances to
sample this special fragrance, and when the
bouquet of the old stream rose up and threw
itself at them, they fell back with a shriek and had
to be carried away insensible on a board. People
who had become case-hardened in the guano and
bone-boiling trade withered up like a dishcloth
struck by lightning when this inventor of
all smells greeted them in its pristine magnificence.
Inanimate objects which had been accidentally
exposed to its influence were occasionally
shown to strangers at a distance, and they
became bold and deranged at the first sniff.
When a foreign ship came in the captain
generally gave one distracted glance around,
and then hanged himself to get away from the
subtle influence that floated in the air, and to
escape from the scenery. Whether these things
were any worse in the region that he went to isn't
known, but it is generally considered that such a
thing would be highly improbable. The mate and
the rest of the ship’s company generally grew
frantic owing to the odours, and ran amuck with
capstan-bars, and they almost invariably died off
one by one and were interred in a damp spot
where the gloomy frog sat on their graves and
said “ awk —awk—awk.” Occasionally somebody
put a plain, humble slab over the remains with an
inscription setting forth that they had gone to a
better land, and even though they had died cursing
and attempting to chiack the clergyman who was
looking after their souls, the assertion was a
tolerably safe one. Even Gehenna couldn’t smell
like the Yarra, or the Devil would have broken
up and died long ago, or else he would have
left in disgust and dragged his weary tail
along the sad sea-shore in search of a new home.
Now and then, however, a person grew acclima-
tised to Melbourne’s noble river, and then Death
passed him by for ever afterwards, for it knew
well that if it struck him it would hit something
so so id that it would only damage itself in the
concussion and probably be lame for the rest of
its life. An individual of this description became
so horny inside that he could swallow lighted gas,
and live crabs, and firearms that were in the act of
going off, and burning kerosene, and he could also
kindle fires on his stomach if he wanted to. 1 e
could even have met his mother-in-law in hell
without the slightest emotion. And now all this
is changed. An obtrusive Board has gone to
work and spoiled the grand old cur’osity
for ever. The Yarra still smells in a
ghastly, appa’ling fashion, but it is a common,
plain, ordinary, mean, underhand smell, such
as might be met with on a thousand other
rivers in all parts of the world. There is nothing
brilliant about it—nothing unique. More than
one archbishop started to use obscene language
when he smelt the Yarra as it used to be, and two
canons and an archdeacon committed common
assault and battery after being two, minutes in its
vicinity, and denied the existence of the apostles,
and began to trade in infidel literature, and ceased
to spell the Almighty with a capital letter; but
all these are things of the past. hily two or three
short years ago Melbourne owned an effluvia which
couldn’t be duplicated anywhere else on earth, and
she has deliberately exchanged this priceless rarity
for a common, beastly offensiveness that isn’t
worth sixpence.


Great Medical Reform!
Consult (FREE) HERR RASBMUSSEN, the Celebrated Danish Herbalist,
Expert Specialist in all Private Complaints, Barrenness and Nervous Diseases.
y DENMARK
K./ / I\ W'
R
E
s
T
0
R
E
s
I
3
s
I
V
!
I
A
I
I
T
V
%
■m
Sjl'&oß*
v%
%
f h
d
'%
%
of‘
%
t
&
%
fd
%
%
%
m
fd
#
i
mms
tarn
HfiiiTY
A Guaranteed Cure
for
Nbkvous Debility and
Dost Vitality.
22e. 6d. per Course.
Smaller Box ss. Cd.
Only Herbalist in Australia w
That has received “Gold Medal” for Great Cures Performed, and is Honourably Mentioned in the “ Centennial History of New South Wales
for Great Herbal Discoveries ; and who can prove that he has CURED OVER 20,000 PATIENTS.
Sole Proprietor and Discoverer of the Celebrated
DEWMiARK VITALITY PILLS, Registered,
Which have been the means of Curing so many Thousands of Sufferers from Nervous Debility, Lost Vitality, Errors, Weakness, Despondency,
Impure Blood. 225. Od. per Course ; Smaller Box, os. 6d.
G-eziuixie Testimonials.
To HERB RASSMUSSEN.— Dear Sir,—This is to certify that you
cured me of a very serious blood disease, after many doctors had
failed. —JOHN REYNOLDS, Chappel-street, Leichhardt, Sydney.
To HERR RASSMUSSEN, the celebrated Danish Herbalist.—Dear
Benefactor,—l have much pleasure to inform the public that you
cured my wife of an internal complaint of a very serious nature after
all the doctors had given her up.—ARCHIBALD MACFARLANE
Eden Cottage, Barney-street, Armidale.
To HERR RASSMUSSEN, Specialist in Nervous Diseases. Dear
Sir,—l hereby thank you for the great cure you performed on me for
a very complicated nervous affection, and I shall always recommend
you to sufferers from Nervous Debility.—PHlLLlP STEAD, 54 Parra-
matta-road, Annandale, Sydney.
To HERR RASSMUSSEN, Danish Herbalist.—Dear Sir and Bene-
factor,—lt gives me great pleasure to testify to your wonderful skill
in the treatment of Disease. You cured me of a terrible complaint
after the doctors gave me up, and although it is four years since, I am
as well as ever. I shall recommend you to all.—Yours, gratefully, A.
RAMSDEN, Great Western Coffee Palace, Castlereagh-street, Sydney.
To HERR RASSMUSSEN, Specialist in Nervous Diseases.—Dear
Sir, —I hereby certify that I have been under your skilful treatment
for a very obstinate case of nervous debility, and that you cured me
with one course of your Vitality Pills. —D. M‘NEILL, Hornsby
Junction, N.S.W.
fd
Opinion s of the Press.
o
It is a well-known fact that HERR RASSMUSSEN, the Celebrated
Danish Herbalist, has performed many gsreat cures during the past tew
years, as his numerous testimonials will prove.—Sydney Bulletin.
HERR RASSMUSSEN.—We have been shown some excellent Testi-
monials of the great cures performed by Herr Rassmussen, the cele-
brated Danish Herbalist. — Australian Star.
HERR RASSMUSSEN has now been established in the colonies
for 10 years. —Sunday Times, April 28, 1888.
HERR RASSMUSSEN has become a celebrity in the curing of all
diseases of the nervous system. His name has become a wonder
throughout the Southern Hemisphere. He was presented with a Gold
Medal for some of his miraculous cures.— Balmain Leader, May 12,1888.
HERR RASSMUSSEN.—The remarkable cures which he has effected
are pretty generally known. — Balmain Observer, April 28, 1888.
We are perpetually receiving letters ironi HERR RASSMUSSEN’S
cured patients requesting us to make known to the public the wonder-
ful medical skill this remarkable man possesses, and he has just been
presented with a Gold Medal from several of his cured patients.
—Sydney Weekly News, May 26, 1887.
Herr Xlassmussen’s Herbal Hem.ed.ies. (REGISTERED.)
DENMARK VITALITY PlLLS.—Guaranteed to cure Nervous Debility, Lost Vitality, Errors of Youth and Despondency. Price, 225. 6d. per full course ; small box, ss. 6d.
DENMARK FEMALE RESTORER PlLLS.—Guaranteed to cure all complaints peculiar to Females, Irregularities, and eradicates complaints which cause barrenness.
Price, 225. 6d. per course ; small box, ss. 6d.
LOCK CURE PlLLS.— Guaranteed to Cure all diseases of the blood, discharges, sores, and strictures. Price, 225. 6d. per course ; small box, ss. 6d.
CONSULTATION AND ADVICE FREE.
All the above remedies are made of PURE HERBS, and are forwarded unobserved. A valuable treatise on Nervous Debility, Private Complaints, and Barrenness, sent
free, on receipt of 4d stamped addressed envelope. Consultation personally or by post, free. Patients are examined with the aid of the Microscope.
Address: - Herr EASSMUSSEN the Danish Herbalist,
Corner G-ordon-street & Park-roadL, Haddington, Sydney.
TRAMS—Take Paddington Tram to Paddington Tram Waiting-room.
DENMARK-
s
I
0
g
r\
j
i
0
s
1
V
!
r
a
!.
!
f
¥
%
%
\jlM&
%
•><l
ft#
H
%
,j<S
%
%
01
%
%
&
f
\ A
#
r
#’
dfd
fd
f
dfd
A Guaranteed Cure
for
Nervous Debility and
Lost Vitality.
225. 6d. per Course.
Smaller Box ss. 6d.
FLETCHER’S CAS COOKING STOVES.
FLETCHER’S ASBESTOS FIRES.
RADCLIFFE RANGES, with H.P. BOILERS.
Chandeliers, Hall X. 1 glits , Brackets (a Large Assortment).
FENDERS & FIRE BRASSES.
II
I
MLEAN BROS. & RIGG, LTD.,
512 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
THE COLONIAL MTTTTTAI/ LIFE ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED.
BRANCHES THROUGHOUT THE COLONIES AND THE UNITED KINGDOM.
Policies issued under the Ordinary, Modified Tontine and Mortuary Dividend Systems.
HEALTH for the MILLION !
WATSON’S
Mild, Aperient, AntiWlious
Pills, purely vegetable
in their composition,
are particularly recommended to either sex, where a
gentle, but effective aperient is required. These Pills
are invaluable for all complaints of the Stomach, and
Liver, speedily removing sick headache, biliousness,
indigestion, etc., and cleansing the
blood of all impurities. To Ladies
these pills will be found invaluable.
PILLS
One trial in sufficient to prove their vast superiority
over all others. Sold by all Chemists and Storekeepers.
Price Is. per box. Prepared solely by John Watson,
Chemist, George Street, Sydney.
Wholesale Agenls:—
Messrs. Elliott Bros., S. Hoffnung & Co., Australian
Drug Co., Pieldham Gothklf & Co., Myf.rs & Solomon,
Tilloch & Co. and J. R. Lovf, & Co.
Dr, AMTO PATiffl, M. 0.,
(F.R.C.S., Ed.; M.K.C.S., Eng.,)
SPECIALIST.
157 Elizabeth Street, Hyde Park,
SYDNEY.
PULVERMACHER’S WORLD-
FAMED GALVANIC BELTS
FOR THE CURE OF
Nervous Exhaustion and Debility, Sciatica,
Lumbago, Rheumatism, &c„
HAVE received Testimonials from Three
Physicians to Her Majesty the Queen and
the Leading Physicians of many London Hospi-
tals, including over Forty Members of the Royal
College of Physicians of London.
For full Price-list and particulars, see new pam-
phlet “Galvanism : Nature’s Chief Restorer of
Impaired Vital Energy.” Pamphlets Free.
Sole Agents for N.S.W.,
FROST «5c SHIPHAM
ELECTRICIANS,
474 & 587 George Street, Sydney.
Sole Agents for Victoria;
ALLISON BROS., 477 Collins-strekt West, Melbourne.
A. BOWMAN’S
LONDON MADE
Porpoise Hide Boots
Are Reduced from 30s. to 21s.
249 PITT ST., SYDNEY, Near Tattersall's.
Porpoise Hide Wears Twice as Long*
as any other Leather.
They t are noted all over London,
Birmingham and Liverpool.
London Fashions,
AND
Fresh Goods Every Fortnight.
Trade Supplied Wholesale at a Great Advantage.
THE SYDNEY CATERING COMPANY. IUTD.
(Late Ghinsler’s Cafe)
175 Pitt Street, Sydney,
WISH their former Patrons and the Public Generally to know that their Saloons have been Entirely Reorganised, and shall be glad if they will give
their new cusine a trial. JAMES 0- MARQUAND, Manager-


PAPER-HANGINGS.
OiLs.CoibußS* p A | N rs:
WALL PAPERS From
fd
2^l
W3&MIM
f
dfdfd
fd
TURPIN & BRIAN,
Wholesale and Family Grocers,
623 George Street, Sydney,
ARE THE
CHEAPEST GROCERS in the CITY!
A Trial Solicited,
WHITE SUGAR, 2£d. per lb.
ROLLER FLOUR, ss. 501 b. bag.
'SPERMS, sd.
HAIR’S SPICED & FRIED HERRINGS,
61jd. per tin.
Large Bottle W. SAUCE, 6d.
„ PICKLES, 6d.
COCOA, 4|d. per packet.
41b. Bar SOAP, 6d.
NEW DATES, 3d. per lb.
J SARDINES, 3s. 9d. per dozen.
Box TEA, 10s. 6d., good and cheap.
51b. WHITE SUGAR and 11b. TEA, 2s.
NOTE THE ADDRESS;
623—George Street—623
Haymarket, SYDNEY.
(Opposite Square and Compass Hotel.)
JJISTORY OF BOTANY BAY
fd
AMUR GRAY & C 0„
TEA IMPORTERS
AND
BLENDERS,
FOOCHOW and SYDNEY.
Office and Sample Rooms:
385 Pitt Street, Sydney.
fd
Agents Wanted in every Town throughout
the Colony.
c.
—(o —
VERY = OLD = SPECIAL
SCOTCH = WHISKY.
DISTILLERIES CO. (Limited),
UMBRI: LLAS
RE-COVE R£ Ct
STUDY ECONOMY
and
Have your Umbrella Frames
Re-Covered, and your
Parasols Re-Lined and made
Equal to New, at
J. SULLIVAN’S,
541 George Street,
Brickkibld Hill, Stdnbt,
betvoeen
Liverpool <£ Bathurst Sts.,
Parasols made to match Cos-
tumes. Repairs neatly done.
JOHN BU CKH AM,
449 ELIZABETH STREET, MELBOURNE.
TENT, Tarpaulin, and Waterproof Cover
Manufacturer. Horse Rugs, Loin Covers,
Oilskin Coats, Cab Aprons, Marquees (with or
without flooring and flags) for sale or hire.
JOHN BUCKHAM MELBOURNE.
Oldest established house in the trade.
When ordering please mention this paper.]
ALLAN A. MARSHALL & CO.,
Engineers, Coppersmiths, Brass and Bell Founders,
Finishers, Plumbers, Ship & General Smiths,
Gas fitters, Art & Mediaeval Metal Worker
K01.1.1'.U SKATES (any make) with ItItASS or HOODKX WHEELS.
Verity’s Gas Fires, Heaters and Ventilators at greatly Reduced Prices-ll 000 Fires already in use
Importers and Manufacturers of Diving Gear, Yacht and Boat Work of every description m
Iron ot Brass, Ships’ Single and Double Action Valve Closets, Fire Hydrants, Hose and all appliances
Bon Accor(T*Works, 9 Macquarie Place, Sydney.
» «
HIGHLY IMUTHITJVE.
MAY Hh ÜBI AlNhll IN LAbhLLLU IINS uh v AUAL If> 1 HKUUBHOIJT THE COLONY.
NOW ACKNOWLEDGED
THE BEST
IN THE MARKET
fd
VVHISKV
M.W.fcCS
SOLD
EVERYWHERE
Snip As-pnta: .TAMES MOII! & CO., 68Margaret-at., Sydney
COLEMANE&SOHS
Eucalypte. Oli^a
m
Victory Ointments
THE TREE OF LIFE
EXTIWy
rrU"
ro
Diancan Ross,
The Great American Athlete,
CURED of INFLUENZA by using COLEMANE & SONS'
EUOALYPTE EXTRACT.
WON'T BE DECEIVE B.
If you want the best Medicine the world has ever pro-
duced, try Colbmanb & Sons’ Eucalypti: Extract— there
are no ten medicines equal to it. It is one of Nature’s
greatest gifts to mankind. It is the only known cure for
Asthma, Consumption, Bronchitis, and all affections of
the Chest and Lungs'. For Palpitation of the Heart,
Gravel and Kidney complaints it has no equal. Fevers of
all kinds, Coughs'Colds, Rheumatism, etc., are banished
by its use. Awarded Medals and Diplomas Adelaide,
Sydney and Melbourne, beating all competitors. Singers
and public speakers will find C. and Sons’ Eucalypti?
Honey a wonder. Be sure and get Colbmanb and
Sons.
A POSITIVE CURE.
DR. BOH ANN AN’S Curative Remedies for all Private
Nervous, and Special Complaints. Always reliable.
Descriptive chart sent, sealed, for two stamps. Addrcsi
Hotel Metropole Pharmacy, Phillip-street, Sydney,
N.S.W.
SEND FOR Dr
PERRY’S FAMOUS WORK ON DISEASES OF THE REPRODUCTIVE ORGANS, FREE ON APPLICATION.
SBLF-
consult DR PERRY, M.R.C.S., L.S.A., etc.
(REGISTERED BY THE MEDICAL BOARD OF NEW SOUTH WALES),
Late House Surgeon to the Great Northern Hospital, Caledonian Road, London,
SPECIALIST in the Treatment of Diseases of the
Reproductive Organs and Nervous Complaints.
Dk PERRY was induced to publicly advertise himself as a
Specialist in this branch of the profession in consequence of the number
of persons suffering from diseases of this nature remaining uncured ; and
this is not surprising, when it is remembered, m consequence of the
general dislike of the profession to undertake these cases, the public
health has suffered, because the majority of persons advertising to treat
these diseases, and calling themselves Doctors, Professors, etc.,
Are Neither the One nor the Other,
and exist chiefly because DULY QUALIFIED MEDICAL PRAC-
TITIONERS have not occupied the field.
Patients can, therefore, readily see the advantage of being treated
by a practitioner who has gone through a thorough Medical, Surgical and
Anatomical Training in the best hospitals ; and the Doctor argues that,
although it may be considered contrary to antiquated medical etiquette
to so advertise, yet he is promoting the usefulness and the dignity of
the profession more by searching out and relieving this class of disease
than by leaving them severely alone to the care of men who, however good
their intentions, have neither the opportunities or advantages of a regular
medical training to become acquainted with the best methods of treating
these complex forms of disease.
:unni
ttmtEV
' "aiW •,
3Dr. OPEISia-aa’
Will be happy to advise persons suffering from these
diseases, and as, in many cases,
Nothing but the observance of a few simple directions
as to Self-Management
is required to place the patient in a healthy state, all who
are in any way affected should consult him, and thus have
the benefit of his advice and experience. *
( +)
Diabetes successfully treated by a totally new
method of Cutaneous Medication,
Tumours also specially treated by successful method.
ALL CASHS GUARANTEED.
Varicocele
Quickly and Successfully Treated, wltliout Operation.
HOTJES :
From 10 a.ni. to 4 p.m each week day, and from 7 to 9 p.m on Tuesday and Saturday evenings.
All Consultations, either toy Letter or Personally, ABSOLUTELY FREE.
De. perry treats eis patients personally, and invites public investigation into his credentials.
Note address: ElmleY HoUSC, 151 Elizabeth Street, SYDNEY.
m m m m m T MENTION THIS PAPER.


Medical,
i
n
eureka
ELECTRIC BELTrtW
A ! /f v ,■ i- W v , vV^>J??rfd
: v-
tuy\
%
Njx
iv
■
/r
\
A NEVER FAILING* CURE FOR ALL.
DISEASES OF THE NERVOUS SYSTEM.
Busp.enMrtr.ApplmTie'os •from >£l. 0. 0 and
Hpwaraa. This famous* Electric Magnetic Belt will cure
DEBILITY, Beminal Debility, Impotence,
>,nd.air .weakness caused by indiscretion. Pains in the
Back', Lumbago, Giddiness, Rheumatism, Kidney and
Bladder complaints, and in fact any disease of the Nervous
System. The currents are steady and constantly felt by
the wearer. It has great improvements over all other
belts, we are willing to furnish those belts on 30 days
trial, and accept payment after they have proved them-
selves what we represent them to be. Those belts are
made for the specific purpose of producing a continuous,
mild, soothing current of electricity through all the weak-
ened parts, restoring them to health and vigorous strength,
even the worst case permanently cured in three months.
It is more convenient to wear than any other Belt.
A Book illustrated, containing full information and testi-
monials from prominent people throughout Australia,
and informing persons how they may obtain these belts
without paying for them until they have proved them com-
petent to cure any disease of the Nervous System, will be
forwarded to any address on receipt of a 2d stamp for
postage. 9
Address; — VOLTAIC BELT COMPANY
Box 916, G. P. 0., Bydnby.
Dr. James D. Llewellyn,
(REOISTERKD)
SPECIALIST in
GENITO-lIEINAEY DISEASES,
May be CONSULTED at
~3 25 LONSDALE STREET-
ibeticeen Swanston db Elizabeth Sts.),
MELBOURNE.
S3t Consulting Hours—lo to 2; 7to 9. Sunday
Mornings, 10 to 11.
'
AH Dersonal Consultations are Free ; by letter the
Fee is £l, which is inclusive of medicines.
fd
Barry’s
Tricopherous
FOR THE
HAIR ft SKIN
fd
An elegant dressing ex-
quisitely perfumed, re-
moves all impurities from
the scalp, prevents bald-
ness and gray hair, and causes the hair to grow
Thick. Soft and Beautiful. Infallible for curing
eruptions, diseases of the skin, glands and muscles,
and quickly healing cuts, burns, bruises, sprains, &c.
Caution,—None genuine without the trade-mark of
Barclay & Co., New York, affixed to each bottle.
'■Mil
Barry’s
Pearl
Cream
forth
Complexion
t Imparts to the darkest skin a clear, natural white,
tinged with the faintest rose-blneh. Speedily removes
Wrinkles, Freckles, Sunburn and Tan, and mantles
the faded cheek with youthful bloom and beauty.
C AUTION. —None genuine without the trade mark
of Barclay & Co., New York, affixed to each bottle
A BLESSING IN EVERY FAMILY.
HOLLOWAY’S PILLS AND OINTMENT.
There is not a country in the civilised world where
the healing virtues of thes » grand medicines have not been
recognised by thousands of sufferers. In all the ordinary
ailments of humanity their beneficent action is at once
recognised. Fullest directions are supplied for their use
in every disease. IF YOU SUFFER, TRY THEM. Manu-
factured only at 78 New Oxford-st., London. Pur-
chasers should look to the Label on the Boxes and Pots.
If the address is not 523 Oxford-street, London, they are
spurious.
LOONG SHAN TEA HOUSE
NOW OPEN.
Q-«.oxxs Tart & Co.’s
EXTENSIVE NEW PREMISES
(Nearly opposite Theatre Royal).
FIRST-CLASS GRILLS,
Cl
u
o
N
G
T
A
R
T
C
O
M
P
A
N
Y
As well as all kinds of Refreshments, may
be obtained from 7.30 a.m. to 11.80 p.m.
CUP OF DELICIOUS TEA.
ICED DRINKS OF ALL KINDS, &c.
The rooms are splendidly furnished and
fitted up. In addition to the large and
well - appointed Refreshment Rooms,
gentlemen will find on the Second Floor
Commodious and Comfortable Smoking
and Conversation Rooms, furnished with
Chess, Draughts, &c., &c.
TO THE LADIES.
On the First Floor will be found Nice
Private Room for Ladies, convenient for
Writing, Reading, &c,, also Retiring
Rooms and Lavatory, with both hot and
cold water laid on. Inspection Invited.
Finest Teas imported—Packets |lb. and
upwards supplied. Orders promptly at-
tended to.
Q
U
O
N
G
T
A
R
T
C
O
M
P
A
N
Y
137 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
- Medical.
A WONDERFUL, MEDICAL
Beecham’s Pills
•</.
<O.
PATENT
u
Pittl
■ /•'
Are universally admitted
to lie worth a Guinea
a Box for bilious
and ' nervous disorders,
such as wind and pain in
the stomach, sick head-
ache, giddiness, fulness
and swelling after meals,
dizziness, and drowsiness,
cold chills, flushing's of
heat, loss of appetite,
shortness of breath, cos-
tiveness, scurvy, blotches
on the skin, disturbed
sleep, frightful dreams,
and all nervous and trem-
bling sensations, &o. The
first dose will give relief
. . in twenty minutes.. Every
is earnestly invited to try one box of these
1 ills, and they will be acknowledged to be
Worth a Guinea a Box.
For females of all ages these Pills are invaluable,
as a few doses of them carry off all humors, and
bring about all that is required. No female should
be without them. There is ho medicine to be found
equal to BEECHAM’S PILLS for removing any
obstruction or irregularity of the system. If taken ac-
cording to the directions given with each box they will
soon restore females of all ages to sound and robust
health. This has been proved by thousands who have
tried them, and found the benefits which are ensured by
their use
For a weak stomach, impaired digestion and all disorders
of the liver, they act like “ MAGIC,” and a few doses will
be found to work wonders upon the most important
organs in the human machine. They strengthen the
whole muscular system, restore the long-lost complexion,
bring back the keen edge of appetite, and arouse into ac-
tion with the ROSEBUD of health the whole physical
energy of the human frame. These are “FACTS” tesifled
continually by njembe/s of all. classes of society ; and
one of the best guarantees to the nervous and debilitated
is, Beecham’s Pills have the largest sale of any patent
medicine in the world.
Beecham’s Magic Cough Pills.
As a remedy for Coughs in general, Asthma, Bronchial
Affections, Hoarseness, Shortness of Breath, Tightness
and Oppression of the Chest, Wheezing, &0., these Pills
stand unrivalled. They are the best ever offered to the
public and ■ ill speedily remove that sense of oppression
and difficulty of breathing which nightly deprive the
patient of rest. Let any person give Bebcuam’s Cough
Pills a trial and the ' most violent Cough will in a
short time be removed.
Prepared only and sold wholesale and retail by the pro-
prietor, Thomas Beeoham, Chemist, St. Helens, Lancashire,
England, in boxes at Is. lid. and 2s. 9d. each. —Sold by
all Druggists and Patent Medicine Dealers everywhere.
N.B.—Full directions are given with each box.
CONSULT PROFESSOR SELBY,
376 Cleveland Street, Surry Hills, Sydney,
Personally or by letter on Chronic Complaints
of the Nervous System, Diseases of the Urinary
Organs and all Impurities of the Blood. A Positive
Cure in all cases amendable to treatment. Suf-
ferers should read the Professor’s valuable treatise,
sent post free to all who send their address. It
contains Advice on Marriage, worth its weight
in gold.
E PR S ’S
GRATEFUL—COMFORTING
COCOA.
Dr. westcott’s amenorrhcea
PILLS for Ladies, when taken for a few
days before, quickly correct all irregularities
from whatever cause arising ; 2s. fid. and 4s. 6d.,
by post 3s. and ss. W. H. SOUL and CO., 190
Pitt-street, Sydney, Agents.
Musical.
INGHAM’S
PATENT SCALE INSTRUCTOR
FOR THE—
IPIJLIErOgOIEaTIE.
PUPILS can obtain the above at once, and the beat
way to illustrate its usefulness to them is to sup-
pose a man to live to be a hundred years old and never
to have seen a Piano, he would, with five minutes’
instruction, be able to play the most difficult Major and
Minor Scales on the instrument.
Miscellaneous.
WA. LEWIS, old-established Private Detective,
• for the discovery of Missing Friends, tracing
Absconders, watching Suspected Persons, and prosecuting
all kinds of Private and Confidential Enquiries ; obtaining
Evidence in Divorce, Libel, Fraud, Bigamy, Breach of
Promise ; extracts from or Copies of Wills, or Certificates
of Births, Marriages or Deaths obtained in any part of the
world. Bankrupt Schedules Filed, £l, by a 'legal gentle-
man duly admitted and practising in all the courts of
N.S.W., who may be consulted at my office on all legal
work. Consultation Free. Rents and Debts Collected,
Distress Warrants issued, steady and trustworthy Bailiffs
employed, and all moneys received are promptly accounted
for. W. A. LEWIS cautions the public against so-called
old-established private detective agencies, as he is con-
nected with no agents in Sydney. An intelligent, well-
trained staff of Male and Female Assistants retained,
capable, when necessary, of assuming any character in
life—from a newspaper boy to a clergyman, or from a
servant girl to a lady. Terms M operate, Consultation
Free Address—
PficKNix Chambers, .-.15$ Pitt Stuff,t, SYDNEY
[Telephone 723.
WILLIAM CAE GILL,
Photographic Stock Importer,
26 IMZ-A-IR-lECIIET STREET,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
SPECIAL NOTICE.—The Sydney Bulletin.
Tasmanian Edition Publishers, FITZ-
GERALD BROS. Subscription (payable strictly
in advance), Six Shillings and Sixpence per quar-
ter, or One Pound per annum.
The Bulletin will be on Sale every Friday at
the Office, George Street, Launceston, or from the
Runners in Ihe si reef.
Business Announcements,
HE BANK OF NEW ZEALAND.
64 PITT STREET, and 538 GEORGE STREET.
The Bank has Agents in all the principal cities
throughout the United States of America and
Canada, and can offer special facilities for dealing
in Bullion, Bills of Exchange, Commercial and
Travellers’ Letters of Credit.
Drafts issued and Bills collected on most favour-
able terms, at rates which can be ascertained on
application.
FAMILY HOTEL.
JOSEPH NI MMO
First-class Accommodation for Tourists and Families
Wires and Letters to be addressed “Proprietor.”
Arrangements can be made to provide transit for persons
wishing to view the celebrated Jeuolait Caves and
other places of interest.
Paid-up Capital
£1,125,000
N. F. GIBLIN, Manager.
f
*
TSbCi
<c;
n:
w
X
f*'
EVERY
DESCRIPTION
K DONE.
PRiV&TE.
ROOMS
FOR LADIES
22*24
ROYAL ARCADE'
MELBOURNE
J. SITTEHLIM,
FROM PARIS,
Ladies’ Hairdresser. Wigmaker. & Perfumer,
25 SYDNEY ARCADE, SYDNEY.
—-o
HISTORICAL AND FANCY HAIRDRESSING A
SPECIALTY.
Manufacturer of All Kinds of Theatrical
and Street Wigs.
Aiiiiuoniakd Quinine,
The most efficient Hair Lotion, to prevent prema-
ture baldness,.
' Sitterlin’s Vegetable Hair-dye,
The only Hair-dye in the colonies to restore Light
Hair to its natural colour. All shades.
Success CS-el :o.‘te<ec3..
HATTERS
MANUFACTURING
GEORGE STREET
SYDNEY
IMPORTERS OFAILTHE
NEWESTSHAPES.
And at ALBERT STREET, BRISBANE.
-, •¥% <■'
df
■m.
fiUCri
INC
*/
PO
-.OAm'L. I,',
MANUFACTURED BY > , J
ijAMCS CmNNOb S/arLotrrS* r^Jj
» oIA. Tn/ alt Shatl/td & S/o re Ac eh rr<y .
Sold, lnja.lt SAaaVtjd tj SA'feAfffiero ,
Business Announcement.
SJ2HE THREE (GREAT EIGHTS
The Needles Patent Gas-making Machine;
The Harvey Patent Safety Kerosene Lamp;
And the New Era Portable Gas Lamp.
Tile Harvey Lamp has been adopted by the
Railway Commissioners for lighting the Sydney
trams. We were awarded the Highest, Order >9l;
Merit and Special Mention by experts at th.e
late. Melboiirnfe Exhibition, fob bur
mediums. Oyer 6000. Harvey Lamps are in hae
in tins colony, and, for alj lighting purposes ais
giving universal satisfaction. These Lamps cari
be seen on one of the North .Shore ferry-boats,
and are suitable for all classes of vessels,, The
Inventor .offers £2OO to anyone producing as good
a Kerosene Burner.
Patentees for Australasia; . - ,
H. T,. Smith & Co , 494 Kent St. South, Sydnc-y!
14 Arcade, Adelaide, S.A.; Argent Street, Broken Hill;
Parkside Iron Works, Melbourne.
The Cheapest and Best Horsefeed
IN NEW SOUTH WALES.
CHAMPION OATEN CHAFF!
PRIME OATEN CHAFF!
LUCERNE CHAFE!
MIXED CHAFF!
Our own Cutting. Fresh every day.
ISf" Buy from us and save money. IgJi
City Produce Company,
STEAM CHAFF-CUTTERS.
HAY STREET, HAYMARKET.
fS.ea.e3.! n.ead ! Read !
“THE BULLETIN’S”
History of Botany Bay,
By Arthur Gayll.
Profusely Illustrated by The Bulletin’s well-
known Artists,
L. HOPKINS and PHIL MAY.
Price - One Shilling
Per post, Is. 3d.
Hotels.
PFAHLERT’S HOTEL,
SYDNEY, NS W.,
Opposite the Park, V/ynyard Square.
(Under New Management.)
rpHIS for 25 years well-known First-class Central Hotel,
recently thoroughly renovated throughout, has every
comfort and'attention of a home. The Cuisine Department
is under competent French supervision. Dining Room
open for Non-Residents. Open-air Recreation Garden.
A well-ventilated Billiard Room adjoining Recreation
Ground (three Alcock’s best Tables'), under the manage-
ment of A. Buckingham, late of Empire Hotel. Wipes
and Spirits of the very best quality only, and the Finest
and Coolest Bar in Town
HOT AND COLD BATHS,
wr
Nil* BIT POUTEIt. French
German
Telephone No. 150. Kalian
Spoken.
SPECIAL SUITES FOR FAMILIES.
OH AS. HECHT
Manager.
Mr + and Mrs. Thomas Asche
Beg to inform their Friends and Patrons that,
in addition to other recent improvements at the
BOYAL HOTEL,
a first-class HYDRAULIC ELEVATOR has
been erected for the convenience of Visitors,
rendering it the most complete and comfortable
house in Sydney ; and with the personal and un-
ceasing attention of Mr. and Mrs. Asche in every
detail of management, they rely on the continued
patronage of their many old friends, whose kindly
recommendation of the ROYAL HOTEL to their
friends will be esteemed.
THE 6EOEGE HOTEL
St, Kilda, Victoria.
tS For particulars, apply to
F. WI3VEFOX.E,
PROPRIETOR.
oy a'TTstandailii hotel,
CASTLEUEAGII and BATHURST STREETS.
Thoroughly renovated throughout.
First-class accommodation for Country Visitors
G. BOYNE .." ... Proprietor.
Price One Shilling.
Australian stories and sketches is prose and versa
—BY—
(opposite Railway Station, near Baths),
First-class Family & Commercial Hotel.
G O L D E N S HANT Y,
“BULLETIN ! WRITERS.


SHE VILL & GO.,
Corner Queen Street and Flinders Lane,
MELBOURNE.
MERCANTILE AUCTIONEERS,
House, Land, and Estate Agents,
111 l
111
• •>
m
jtj
Advances made against shipments of Merchandise
and Colonial Produce.
Daily Sales held at their Commodious
New Rooms.
OUTDOOR
Furniture & Land Sales Conducted.
Branch
Offices
32 Chapel St., Prahran.
2 Albert St., Windsor.
Brakch.
Offices
f 9
d Medal
df
d
f A
FURNITURE
WAREHOUSES,
York Street, Wynyard Square, Sydney,
Now supply the General Public as well as the Trade.
---■ ■■■■
10,000 Bedsteads,
From lOs. 6d. to £35.
H. R. Leach,
SUCCESSOR TO
GB. MODINI, Gunmaker, informs Ills Customers
■ and the Public in general that he has the largest
assortment of Firearms in the colony. Qualities and prices
to defy competition. Guns by the following celebrated
gunmakers J. Purdey & Sons, Ch. Boswell, John Rigby
and Co., Joseph Lano & Sons, Ch. Osborne & Co., Thomas
Bland & Son, V/. Powell & Sons. A large assortment of
various other malora always on hand, viz,, W. W. Greener,
Scott, Wesley, Hollis &cSons, Riley and Cashmoee. All
goods will be faithfully guaranteed at 602 George*
Street, Sydney. Price list on application.
Thomas Rosa,
TOBACCO & CIGAR IMPORTER,
27 HUNTER STREET. SYDNEY,
(Corner of Pitt Street.)
A large stock of Genuine llavaunali Cigars, of the
choicest Brands to select from.
Sole Importer of the Celebrated “ Flor rte Ronito ”
Brand of Cigars and “Empire Cigarettes.”
Palls Bri dc ® Family TTotel.
Falls Bridge, Melbourne.
This magnificent Hotel, containing 50 Double
and Single Rooms, is splendidly furnished and
perfectly ventilated.
Hot and Cold Plunge and Shower Baths.
Electric Bells. Telephone 1217. Billiards , die.
Terms Strictly Moderate.
J. H. DURHANT w . Manager.
Late of the South Australian Club Hotel, Adelaide.
Free Frescriptlons
Are to be found in the “ Light and. Life,’
for the Speedy Cure' of Nervous Debility and
Kindred Diseases, &c. A copy of this book will
be sent Free, sealed, for Six Penny Stamps.
A(jkJivcss“ m ~~“ '
S. WARD St CO., SYDNEY PHARMACY,
76 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
fd
fdf
ALTED COCOA
Haitiington Hill.
Knowles’ Pumps.
PARKE & LACY GO.,
MINING & HYDRAULIC ENGINEERS
AND
GENERAL MACHINERY MERCHANTS,
&o, 9 &c., &c.
187 & 189 Clarence Street,
SYDNEY, KT.S.W.
And SAN FRANCISCO, CALIFORNIA.
Rock Breaker*.
Wesllnglionse Engine*.
WJU
9
Hay St.
Sydney,
ENGINES,
2 to 50 h.p.
BOILERS,
1 to 35 H.P.
STEAM PUMPS
For all purposes.
QNTBMI PUMPS,
2" to 40" discharge.
HAND PUMPS.
Saw Benches.
Ihatlies.
SUE MACHINES,
&c», &c.
0®
i 'uv/it tfataloma
v/'imfL Jmaifcs.
■
mm Emm.
Hauling Engines.
Battery Engines.
Engines.
FLOSS-MILL ABB
EINT GINES
FOR
Electric Lighting.
Vertical Boilers.
Multitubular Boilers,
COItMSH KOI I. KKS.
&0., &0.
a>Knv tu
We invite al those requiring Machinery of any kind for any purpose, large or small, to write for particulars and prices. From the extent of our stock we are srenei
Visitors, whether buyers or not, are always welcome to inspect the magnificent display in our new and extensive Showrooms
X 33 & X 35 HAY STREET, KA.YMA, R K E T, SYDIffEY.
129, X3X,
give unmeoiate delivery
