

f
ţ
ť
BALDWIN DEY AIR REFRIGERATOR.
Beware of the many so-called Dry Air Refrigerators advertised by unscrupulous Manufacturers and Dealers, intending
to deceive the public and trade upon our reputation. This is the original and celebrated Dry Air Refrigerator, made
famous by its successful competition at the leading Exhibitions in the United States for the past Six Years, known as
the Baldwin Dry Air Refrigerator.
WHITE MOUNTAIN FREEZERS, ICE MILK CANS, MIXERS,
L 335 3VE OTNT SQUEEZERS, &c., &c.
ZLdEoZLiea-in. Bros. Sz ZLtd__,
512 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
rpHE COLONIAL MUTUAL LIFE ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED.
BRANCHES THROUGHOUT THE COLONIES AND THE UNITED KINGDOM.
Policies issued under the Ordinary, IVE odLifiedL Tontine and Mortuary THviHendL SYSTEMS.
TMe MUTUAL STORE, Limited,
Opposite the FLINDERS STREET TERMINUS, MELBOURNE.
The advantages of the Mutual Store are now offered to the general public, and Visitors to Melbourne will have all their requirements supplied from under One Roof.
The following are the Departments of the Store Grocery and Dressed Provisions. Poultry and Game. Grain and Fuel. Wine, Beer and Spirits. 'Stationery and Fancy Goods. Iron-
mongery : General Furnishing and Electroplate. Boots and Shoes. Woollens and Tailoring. Gentlemen’s Mercery. Furniture and Carpets. China and Glass. Drapery ; General Hosiery
and Gloves. Millinery and Dressmaking. Mantles. Underclothing. Silks and Dresses. Manchester. ‘
Refreshment Rooms, where Light Luncheon and Afternoon Tea are provided. &T Well-appointed Broughams, .Victorias, Waggonettes, etc., from Company’s own Livery Stables
on Hire by Hour, Day, Week or Month.
Special attention is paid to Countey and Station Oedees. Cash Oustomees removing their own Goods are entitled to a Discount of 6 per cent. Open to the Public for Cash Purchases.
s
HIGHLY NUTRIT-IVE
MAY BE OBIAINhII IN LABELLED TINS OR PACKETS THROUGHOUT Tttt UULONY
Oi/>\
CET
C£
m :
.t/,4
V'lM
H: "
"V
-3=
/ '-''A
y//M
L & S
w
The LONDON & SYDNEY TEA COMPANY
409 KENT STREET (Two Doors from Market Street), SYDNEY,
—IMPORT—
s: I C - H-C L -A. £3 £3 & CHIUA
TEAS
Packed in 201 b. and 401 b. Paekages, and delivered at Is. fid., Is. 9cl. and 2a ner IK.
(Carriage Free) to any Railway Station or Port in New South Wales. *
A Single Package at Wholesale Price. Correspondence invited and promptly attended la
The Bulletin
Vol. 10—No. 518.]
[Saturday, January 18, 1890.


TOBACCO
Lll
m
11
7, Jr,
m
a
o
37
X
SIR ROGER
%
*
V-
iBl
DIXSONS
Dr. RIDGE’S
FOOD
FOE INFANTS AND INVALIDS
Has an enormous sale in England
and is now being introduced into the
Colonies.
Every Storekeeper should get a supply
as every Wise mother will certainly
use it.
DB. JUDGE'S ROYAL FOOD MILLS,
LONDON, ENGLAND.
Noxsoa
27 V**“UXtfh
.'rt
383-WSVINndi.
<sB^:
sa i2?, i
K’jm
gtoites
.<a
few ffllw
BJIMOUC
BROWN’S
SATIN
POLISH
-FOB-
LADIES’ AND CHILDREN'S
BOOTS AND-SHOES.
Awarded highest honors at
Phila., 1876 Melbourne, 1880
Berlin, 1877 | Frankfort, 1881
Paris, 1878 ’ Amsterd’m 1883
New Orleans, 1884-85, and wherever
exhibited.
Paris medal on every bottle.
Beware of Imitations.
This Blacking is in liquid-form and is applied to shoes
or other articles of leather by means of a sponge, attached
to the cork by a wire, so that the blacking can he used by
anyone without soiling the fingers. No polishing brush
is required. It dries immediately after being applied, and
will not soil the most delicate clothing.
Sold largely in Australia through Commission Merchants
and Dealers.
B. F. BROWN & CO.,
Boston, U.S.A., M’f’gs.
B.
KITTEN BERG & CO.
importers;
8! I‘lareuce St., IVyuyarrt Square.
Furniture , Mirrors, Oleographs, and Mouldings.
ATKINSON’S
ENGLISH PERFUMERY
surpasses all others for its natural
fra-j'a'nce.
ATKINSON’S CELEBRATED
EATT DE COLOGNE
Is Unequalled for its Strength and
Delightful Odour. It far surpasses
the numerous compounds sold under
the same name.
ATKINSON’S
FLORIDA WATER,
An exceptionally fine Perfume for
the Handkerchief, distilled from the
choicest exotics.
Of all Dealers and of the Manufacturers —
J. & E. ATKINSON,
24, OLD BOND STREET, LONDON.
Trade Mark—“ White Rose’ ’ on “Golden
Lyre,” with Address in full.
T. LAWLESS, June.,
37 MAEKET STEEET,
SYDNEY,
Fruit Meroliant.
NEYEE TRAVEL WITHOUT IT.
WANTED IN EYEIIY HOUSE.
<
cffectuai.lv destroy;
Ai! NOXIOUS INSECTsB
FLEAS. FLI£S, BEETLES MOSOU ITOES
COCKROACHES V'RAf ANOIS
AT THE SAME TIME QUITE]
HARMLESS TO BIRDS DOGSI
COWLS OR OTHER
ANIMALS
ŧ
K* > <> S '
V* „vy
' .^'Ki
t
FELTON- C RIMWAPE.UC?
MELBOURNE
WANTED IN EVERY HOUSE.
Ask for KKITSE’S' INSECTICIDE, and Beware
of the Numerous Imitations.
CLARENDON HOTEL, MANLY,
The Brighton of New South Wales.
AT the CLARENDON HOTEL, Banquets, Suppers, Private Dinners, Evening Parties, etc., are
served on the Shortest Notice in the Large Dining Hail. Besides having a most recherche
Dinner, you can enjoy from the balconies the magnificent view of the sea and surrounding country ;
here also you can have good company, good wines—in fact, everything that can possibly make one
comfortable can be found at this really first-class hotel. Pishing and Picnic Parties provided. Table
de Hole at One o’clock daily and Sundays. No expense is spared by Mrs. Kilminster to make her
visitors comfortable and her Hotel the best in the colony.
TT TT CJleuareiKxcXoxs. ISo-fcoX,
Opposite OCEAN BEACH, MANLY.
JOBCKT BTJOKHAM,
449 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
Tents Tarpaulins, Wool, Dray and Waggon Covers
fereased or oiled), Canvas Water Bottles, Coolers, Whim
Buckets, Horse Rugs, Nose Bags, Oiled Loin Cloths. Send
to or call at
449 ELIZABETH STREET, MELBOURNE
(Oldest Established House in the Trade).
SURVEYORS TENTS A SPECIALITY.
68 Hunter Street, and 3 Blight Street,
SYDNEY.
IF 1 . SHEOSDEB
LIVERY, BAIT, LET-0 VT AND COMMIS-
SION STABLES.
Horses and Vehicles of every description for
Sale or Hire ; also, good reliable Ladies or Gentle-
men’s Hacks.
WIX LIAM CAEGILL,
Photographic Stock Importer,
2 6 MARKET STREET, SYDNEY.
'0
D
<1/
w
s\
il
e
Q
ES
FF
*■»
'I s
IV! 1 LDU R A .
M-LBOURN E
Renmark„
AdELA I DE -
England.
Victoria.
Ch&ffjy Irrigation Offices, Swanstcn Street.
$0 uth Australia.
Cavendish Chambers, Grenfell Street.
J, f. Mathew Vincent, (Chief Commissioner)
Cornwall Buildings, 35 Queen Victoria St.
l. o N D O IN E C-
»po«d.l * C?
PRINCE OF WALES’ HOTEL,
St;. Kilda,, Victoria.
Within Five Minutes from STATION, and One Minute from ESPLANADE and BATHS.
MBS. KONG MKVG ... ... Proprietress.
fc
Purchasers should see that the Label on every bottle of the original
WORCESTERSHIRE SAUCE
bears the Signature, thus :
Ask for Lea & Perrins’ Sauce, and see Name on Wrapper, Label, Bottle and Stopper^
Wholesale and for Export by the Proprietors, Worcester: Crosse $ Blackwell, London, $O., sc. J
and by Grocers and Oilmen throughout the World.
—Everyone should Jiead —
The IESTKIU’S
“HISTORY of BOTANY BAY,”
By ahthur g-Ayll.
Profusely Illustrated by “ Tlie Bulletin’s” well-known Artists, L. Hopkins and Phil May.
Price - ONE SHILLING; per Post, Is. 3d.
May be had from Agents, or direct from “ The Bulletin ” Office.
Wnts— Victorian: A. Beniamin, 321 Little Collins Street East, Melbourne ; Tasmanian; Fitzgerald Brothers, George Street,
Launceston; Queensland; J. H. Thompson, George Street, Brisbane.


The Bulletin
Vol. IC- ’fo. 513.
SATURDAY, JANUARY 18, 1890.
Price, 6d.
f tfif r °
‘first .
I
/>
\r4<\
\ I'M**
O- /<■ v*
<< J^r
x q .
ţ
/Jr fy/At. r. p/<?s cns *' 7yey sap?
uyders/ayct, SfaP Syr Sfe use of s?y
/?a/t?e ufoy your D/recforuPp
cdduld all of/ye /a. 000 ffares °9ty,
~Mo.poler "yej t ayd lfaf/$ iyore/fay
tie usually clloco for a C/yf SaP
yca see. , vcat Pyaoyer /s Sofffy
repress /if 7sarcus are icd///yyr Wc
f A
#
ť
(VA IT
FOl\
J)l/IJ}EN0S
10*
; ov\0 v \
CoyfortaCle jyulf,
l*jr iatyl), I'OU.r
000 l
Cll £*&'■
fjin/U'C ,ff(j£MTs
S/bec/yjr/vy
yi^F/f
/hooper- erty/fjtf op yy
/~f c Gfyfntty c(CL t/on / O// cfop/~ Jccy
/fidf Spy fos/~ /.v&A ~ r/fi£
SX P£/?/£MCE '
THE COMING BOOM!


The Bulletin
The national Australian Newspaper.
“ Australia for the Australians.”
Proprietors : BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO.,
Limited,
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 24 Pitt-street, Sydney, New South Wales.
TEEMS TO S ÜBS GUI BEES
(payable in advance, only).
Per Annum £lO 0
Half-yearly 0 12 6
Quarterly 0 6 6
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to AVilliam Macleod, Managing Director.
Literary Communications to be addressed to 3. F.
Archibald.
The Editor will carefully read and acknoivledye in tne
“ Correspondence ” column all contributions submitted
whether in the form of Political, Social, or other Articles,
Verse, Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in
length, or say 8000 words, are specially acceptable),
Paragraphs, Letters, or Neivspaper-Clippinys. All
communications will be regarded as strictly confidential.
“ The Bulletin” will return all unavailable MSS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we
desire those sending MSS. to distinctly understand that
we are not responsible for the preservation or transmission
of such MSS.
NOTICE.
By sending direct loTiie Bulletin Office Twenty Shillings
sterling—which you mag pay by Post Office Order, One
Pound Note, or Stamps of any Australian colony-you
tan have The Bulletin posted regularly to you every week
for a year.
This offer is not open to residents of Sydney. In that
city The Bulletin is not delivered by mail, but is entirely
in the hands of our carriers, with 'whom we do not wish
to interfere.
TTw&xxIIeGM.
SATURDAY, JANUARY 18, 1890.
“Civilising” Africa.
“The blessings of civilisation” are being
rapidly diffused in Africa. The modern
system is there operating in all its baneful
vigour. Its instruments are mainly rum,
gunpoAA r der, and true religion. Each article
is considerably adulterated. Sometimes one,
sometimes another is presented first. But
generally true religion is the preliminary in
instances Avhen the introduction of gun-
poAvder or rum would involve the civilisers
in danger. It Avould be a tedious task to
trace the history of European and Asiatic
aggression in Africa. From the earliest ages
of which any records are preserved the
“Dark Continent” has been the human
hunting-ground of the Caucasian race. It
has been a vast preserve of gold, ivory and
slaves. Times change, and with them cus-
toms alter. A wave of hypocrisy has flowed
over Europe. The nations are all Tartu fees
to-day. They profess the principles of
Wilberforce and Romilly as voiced by
William Coavper. They “ would not own
a slave to till their ground for all the Avealth
that sineAvs bought and sold have ever
earned.” Great Britain makes especial
parade of her virtue. She it Avas that led
the Avay to the abolition of negro slaA’ery.
She abolished the slave trade in 1807, de-
clared the traffic by her subjects to be felony
in 1811, in 1824 pronounced it piracy, and
in 1834 emancipated 800,000 negroes in the
West Indies, compensating the slave-owners
by a grant of £‘2o,ooo,ooo—Avhich the
British Avhite slaves, the tax-payers, had to
provide. At present we find her competing
Avith other nations to enslave Avhole popula-
tions of negroes. Of course the process
beat’s a different name. “Steal” is an
awkAvard word—“ ‘ Convey,’ the Aviso term
it.” “ Enslave ” sounds villainously—“ Ex-
tend the sphere of British interests ” is a
handsome euphuism. That is Ayhat’s the
matter just at present in equatorial Africa.
Great Britain and Portugal have been
snarling at one another because each Avants
to “ extend the sphere ” of its influence.
# 1 * *
Probably few persons comprehend the
beauty of the chain of Tartuffian reasoning
by which the intrusion of Great Britain in
the territory of the unfortunate negro is
justified. It is elegantly expressed by
Hayley, the biographer of Cowper. I his
philanthropical snuffle-buster explains that
Great Britain is bound to bring Africa under
the scope of her influence, by Avay of com-
pensation for having formerly extended the
scope of her influence over the niggers to the
extent of kidnapping them and keeping them
in slavery till they died. “Let us not
think,” cries this Avorthy ass, “ that we have
discharged the debt by an act of emancipa-
tion. In conferring the boon of liberty, we
restore only that of which they ought never
to have been deprived. We have granted
compensation to the proprietor, but where
is the compensation to the negro ? Never
will the accumulated wrongs of ages be
redressed till we say to the sable sons of
Africa, ‘ Behold your God !’ Let their minds
be expanded by instruction, and the Bible—•
that great charter of salvation—be circulated,
that thus Great Britain may acquire a lasting
and an honourable title to their gratitude
and love.”
* * *
This is all very sad stuff. Australian
colonists know with tolerable accuracy the
worth of it all. The missionary goes first
with the Bible for his sole weapon. The
savage drinks the water of life for a while—
and then eats the reverend turncock. Or he
keeps the holy man prisoner, as did Theo-
dore, of Abyssinia. Thereupon Exeter
Hall gets up on its hind legs and howls for
“blood and fire,” like the Salvation Army
at full moon. Then the gunpowder stage is
entered upon. The butchers in blood-
coloured clothes are sent along and with
prodigious valour shoot down as many
niggers as they like, if these are perceived,
through a field-glass, to wave their spears
three-quarters of a mile away. This kills off
comparatively few. But the succeeding
stage wipes out the aborigines more rapidly
than Russian influenza makes a crowned-
head sneeze its royal nose off-—more rapidly,
in fact, than a light going out plunges an
Omnipotent Czar into epileptic tits. This is
the Rum and Friendship stage. It is pecu-
liarly deadly. Its lethal effects have of late
been much intensified by the plan of leasing
a whole territory populated by two or three
mutually hostile clans, to a syndicate of
traders. Especially deadly is this system
when the lease is defined on the map by an
official who never was nearer Africa than
Tottenham Court Road, and whose informa-
tion about its inhabitants is confined to the
fact that he once smoked a pipeful of negro-
head tobacco. In such case the chances are
that the concession is over territory which
another nation, which, has just as little busi-
ness to meddle, has already conceded to
another syndicate. This is precisely what
has occurred to occasion trouble between
Great Britain and Portugal. A couple of
syndicates have collided in the interior of
Africa about a whole country-side which be-
longs to neither of them, but which both
their nations were “ sooling them on to
steal,” niggers and all. Nothing but the
specific gravity and heavy moorings of Africa
prevent the European nations from splitting
it up and towing the sections to join on to
their European territory. As this is not
possible, they “extend the scope of their
influence ” and when they are done with
helping the weaker tribes to wipe out the
stronger, and then bringing the conquerors
into proper subjection, they take a turn at
hoisting their respective flags at Borrioboola
Gha and other celebrated spots, and setting
their niggers to light the niggers of the
other fellow who comes along and pulls down
the drapery.
# * *
There is no room for doubt that the
African negro is going to have a real, rapid
and vivacious time during the twentieth
century. He will most likely be consider-
ably thinned out by being induced or com-
pelled to tight with his fellows to settle
which European nation shall have the right
to the forced labour and trade of the sur-
vivors. But the world is experiencing sur-
prises every day. The Yankees are capable
of complicating the problem in Africa by
deporting their nigger population, now num-
bering, say, ten millions, to the land of their
origin, starting them off handsomely with
equipment for war, and suggesting that they
should take the contract to boss the con-
tinent. According to present appearances,
however, Great Britain has, to suit the con-
venience or greed of her exploiting capitalist
class, surrendered all the advantages of her
insular situation, to which she owes her
present position among the Powers. In two
places she has now a frontier recently ac-
quired, coincident with that of another
European Power. She is so circumstanced
with relation to the German Empire in New
Guinea and in Africa. In Africa likewise
she has Portugal for a neighbour. In Egypt
(not yet evacuated, nor ever likely to be,
voluntarily) England has not yet what may
be called one European frontier—only an
Arab one. Nor has she yet in India such a
contact. But in the former she is likely to
have two awkward frontiers before long.
Italy is gnawing the skirts of Abyssinia, and
clearly means to annex that country ere
long, and Tunis is likely to fall into the
same hands, or to the French. In India,
either Russia or England will absorb Afghan-
istan, and then contact will be complete
there also.
*' # *
That the robbers will quarrel over the
apportionment of the spoils now being seized
is inevitable. Shortly, every one of the
predatory and filibustering powers of Europe
will be gorged with continents. There will
be no territories peopled by simple or feeble
races to divide. Thereupon—apart from the
squabbles sure to occur while the gorging is
in process—there will be a struggle as to
who shall have the lot. This will be a bigger
affair than Great Britain has had on her
hands since she has been a nation. She will
have to develope the force of a continental
power, and maintain on land the supremacy
which she has hitherto only had at sea. The
matter is no particular business of ours —in
Australia. But while the existing political
connection continues any belligerent power
can make it particularly our business. Should
Germany and England quarrel about the
exact amount of land and niggers each is to
“bring under the scope of her influence”
in equatorial Africa, the former power
might waken up the latter by an opera-
tion against Australia, just as the other
day when Major Serpo Pinto made him-
self unpleasant in the heart of Africa,
the British talked of bombarding Lisbon
and making a grab at the Azores. The
spirit of grab is a lot too lively at pre-
sent to leave much chance of a peaceful cen-
tury from 1899 forward. The United States
of America will not be in it with respect to
Asian or African troubles, and if the affairs
of this part of the world were but wisely
managed during the next ten years the
United States 6t Australia might be out of it
pbo,
The New Panacea.
Of two things the Australian Single-taxera cannot
reasonably be accused—want of faith in their cause
and lack of enthusiasm. For the past few years they
have been greatly in evidence, and in all their
wordy combats have comported themselves with
such determination as to compel attention from a
public usually apathetic to theoretical discussions.
Nor has this persistence been barren of results.
The passing of the Sydney General Post-office
Approaches Act through the New South Wales
Legislature may be set down as largely due to the
arguments of the Single-taxers. The measure
referred to gives to the State the advance in value
which will accrue to the adjacent land, by
reason of the formation of a splendid street facing
the Post-office, and although the question of the
Single-tax did not exactly arise in connection with
the legislative action in this matter, the previous
newspaper discussion on land-nationalisation, un-
earned increment, and single-tax familiarised the
public mind with the true theories underlying the
question and made the passing of the Post-office
Approaches Act possible. It is almost the first
recognition of a great principle of public polity,
which is not likely to be lost sight of in fixture
legislation.
# # *
When the peripatetic Parkin returned to Eng-
land after his futile visit to these States, he glee-
fully related how he had shunted the question—
“ Where is your plan ?”—by stating that there
was ample time for the production of the plan
of Imperial Federation, when the idea was on
the point of realisation. Such shuffling does
not fit in with Australian notions. If a plan
is good in theory, it will bear formulating in exact
terms. There is no mode of proof so convincing
as the mathematical, and though we did not
anticipate the Parkin brood should be able to
prove, by the rule of three, that the incubus of
Imperialism would suit our country, we may be
pardoned the expectation of hearing something
approaching a mathematical demonstration of the
feasibility of any genuine schemes for the benefit
of society. Amongst these we reckon the Single-
tax. Here, perhaps, it may be well to remind
some of our readers that Land Nationalisation
and Single-taxing are different things. For our-
selves we believe in Nationalisation. The columns
of The Bulletin were the first in which this
elementary principle of socialism was enforced in
Australia. It is, therefore, not necessary,_ at this
date, to demonstrate our reasons for the views we
hold. Land Nationalisation is a broad principle
consistent with any form of fiscal policy, but the
Single-tax is compatible only with entire Free-
trade. What we want to see is a clear statement
of how the Single-taxers are going to work their
plan.
# # *
The circumstances surrounding the land question
are essentially different in Australia from those of
Europe, especially of the United Kingdom. In
the last-named country there are about 180,000
owners, including those who hold single allot-
ments ; in New South Wales, with only one-thirty-
sixth (1-36) the population, there are 42,000
owners of more than one acre of land in country
districts and probably over 50,000 in towns, while
out of 40 million acres in use 36 millions are oc-
cupied by the owners. The whole area alienated
in the province amounts to little more than 42
million acres, out of which nearly 36 millions re-
present purchases since 1862, and of the latter the
conditions of sale have not been completed upon
nearly 17 million acres. So much for land tenure.
In dealing with land-values we are able to speak
with less certainty. The whole province has never
been assessed for the purpose of ascertaining the
worth of its alienated lands, but we find an esti-
mate has been made which puts the value of land,
without improvements, at £170,000,000. We are
inclined to think the estimate trustworthy, and
for our present purpose we shall assume that it is
so—indeed, when the late Parkes Government
placed their land-tax proposals before Parliament
they assumed a somewhat smaller sum than we have
named. The return from land is now not more
than five per cent, and will presently fall lower ;
taking this rate the annual value of 170 millions
will be £8,500,000. The entire revenue of the
State for 1889 was £9,063,000, so that if the
Government appropriated all the rental value of
the land, the sum obtained would be less
than the present requirements of the State,
not making any allowance for a sum of
about £614,000 raised by municipalities. It is
evident, then, the Single-taxers do not propose
to defray the whole state expenditure from the
land-tax” A reasonable interpretation of their
position is that the present imposts, which are in
the nature of payment for services rendered or
benefits obtained, should be continued. Thus,
though land sales would cease, probably because
there would be no buyers, rents for occupation of
land would still be collected. Tolls would still be
levied on railways and trams, postage on letters
would be charged, fees paid for telegrams, money-
orders, education, and other services rendered by
the State. Subtracting these, there would remain
to be abolished, land sales as well as all taxes pro-
perly so called—these are customs and excise
duties, stamp dues and licenses. During 1889 the
total received from taxes properly so-called was
£2,677,000, and from sales of land £1,149,000, so
that the revenue from the single-tax would need
to reach £3,826,000. To obtain this revenue an
impost of over 45 per cent, would have to be
placed on the rental value of all lands, in addition
to the present municipal rate of about 8£ per
cent. The total land-tax would, therefore, be
53| per cent, or 10s. Bd. in the £.
* * *
If the duties on the importation, sale, and
manufacture of drink be retained under the
Single-tax regime, the sum required to meet the
other revenue given up would be £2,652,000, for,
during 1889, £1,174,000 was derived from intoxi-
cants. To meet the sum named would necessitate
a land-tax of 31 per cent, on the annual value,
which, added to the Municipal-tax, would make
the burthen on land equal to Bs. in the £. The
retention of duties on grog would, of course,
destroy the beautiful theory of the Single-tax,
and bring the impost to the level of a mere land-
tax. On this point it behoves the advocates of
the tax to speak definitely, and clear up any mis-
apprehension that inay lurk in the minds of the
public, as to whether the passion for theoretical
symmetry will succumb to the political necessity
of keeping sweet with the teetotallers. However
this may be, it will be necessary before the ques-
tion of the Single-tax can become one of practical
politics, for its advocates to put aside theory and
speak definitely upon the practical issues which
are involved. * They must explain just what they
mean—what imposts they are going to retain and
what to abolish. When their plan is definitely
promulgated, it will be time enough to sit in
judgment on its possible effect on the progress of
the State.
HENRY SIEBEL.
Plunderers and Plundered.
Frank Mabekley, in “Geoffrey Hamlyn,”
asserts that the early settlers in New South Wales
earned their living by “ cheating one another out
of horses.” Similarly the brokers, bookmakers,
and speculators of this year of grace earn an
honest livelihood by booming favourites—minies,
horses, or peds.—and cheating the public out of
shares in the profits thereof. The business of
booming has so increased and threatens to extend
so largely in the future, that, for the benefit of the
public in general and the “ mugs ” of mining and
other sport in particular, it becomes interesting to
discover the chances of profit to those whose cash
maintains the gamble. In mining, as in racing,
there is a safe side to the speculation. The pro-
moter who gets fully-paid-up shares in exchange
for his offices as a boomer and the broker who gets
commission from buyer and seller on every trans-
action are bound to-come out right whatever hap-
pens. Likewise the director and other officials
charged with the management. They are
able to regulate the reports and rumours
affecting the stock of their company, and
by anything approaching carefulness in “ rig-
ging ” the market can come out ahead
every time for a certainty, unless there is a
cleverer lot of'operators in the market able to
“ dish ” them at their own game. Except for this
little contingency the classes we have named are
just as well able to profit by a mine that exists
only on paper, as the booktuakers are to make
money by laying against a “ stiff "un.” And just
as backers may lose their money by backing a
horse which, fairly run, could sail m a furlong
ahead, so the “ mugs ” in mining constantly get
left badly in buying shares which would be pro-
fitable enough if the mine were not worked wholly
in the interests of the gentlemen who are “ in the
know.” This truth is no great novelty, but inves-
tors plunge just as though it did not. affect them.
Former revelations have not checked the business
of booming in the least. In Sydney another Ex-
change has been started, and although three of
these institutions are going, each with three
meetings a day, the game is to be extended into
the night. Gambling by gaslight in mining
shares is to be added to the other forms of
nocturnal speculation, including pony-racing by
electric light, already established.
' # y # *
If there were a broad enough foundation of
wealth to build upon, this speculation might not
entail very severe loss to the backers of lodes. The
public might then indulge in buying at fancy
prices and yet not find themselves very badly “in
the soup !” But, allowing all reasonable margin,
it cannot be anticipated that the wealth of the
mines now in the market can ever recoup the pre-
sent expenditure of their shares. Restricting
attention to silver mines, it will be noticed in the
latest share report that only three mines, out of
the 35 now quoted, have ever paid any dividend
at all. These are the Proprietary, Block 14, and
Sunny Corner mines. Of course most of the others
are expected to yield enormously. They would
need to do so to recoup present investors. On the
prices quoted in the last monthly report, buyers’
estimates of the value of the leading mines are as
follows -.-British B. H., £1,656,000; Proprietary,
£16,000,000: Block 10, £1,280,000; Block 14,
£1,075,000 ; Junction, £835,000; Souths, £630,000,
and Central, £1,803,750, making on these seven
properties a total valuation of £24,279,750. That
these mines are in public estimation the best in
the market may be admitted. So much, in fact,
is proved by the price of the shares, but there is no
proof that the estimate is anything like reasonable.
To repay this amount, with 10 per cent, interest
on the investment—and this rate is very far short
of buyers’ anticipations—within ten years, would
require dividends at the rate of £5,000,000
annually, and any lengthening of the term would
require a greater total of dividends. But in-
vestors say that these mines are all certainties.
So they arc, in the current acceptation of the
term, but the Bankruptcy Court is kept busy inves-
tigating the affairs of mines that were just as
much certainties at one period of their history—
just when it suited the boomers to have them
declared such. The share report from which we
quote shows a ghastly list of the certainties of a
few months ago in which no recent transactions
are quoted. Castle Rag Extended, Lewis Ponds
South, Spicers, North and South Cordillera, One
Tree, Pinnacle Group, and Pinnacle Tribute,
Pye’s Creek, are among the ventures which,
according to the circular in question, found,
at the end of last month, none so hopeful as to
care to invest. Yet it is easy to remember when
men, richer but less experienced then than now,
were tumbling over one another in a frantic
effort to do business with the boomers. The
majority of buyers do not care whether a mine is
going to pay dividends or not. Their only anxiety
is for a further rise. Sympathy would need to be
very plentiful if any share of it is to go in then-
direction. They attempt to get in with the
boomers, and if they happen to be underneath
when the crash comes their position does not call
for much public lamentation.' But investors of
this class seem to forget how precarious mining
stock is, and how often something goes wrong
with the works of the very best properties. For
there is the double uncertainty involved, the good
faith of company managers—a doubtful quantity
at the best of times —and the continuance
of good prospects being both necessary to the
maintenance of tall price. This is writ large in
the history of past years. When Mount Morgan
shares were up to £lB, the boomsters and experts
talked and wrote of a “mountain of gold.” Now
the reports allude to “a lode,” towards which a
drive is being extended, and the mine has suddenly
dropped £11,000,000 in public esteem. Sunny
Corner mine had a lode 50ft. wide and of
Atlantean richness when the shares were sold at
£7 155.: but when the stock fell to 7s. the smelt-
ing reports became ghastly in their revelations.
Broken Hill South was formerly deemed to be
cheap at £l2 10s. a share. Now the valuation is
only 50 per cent, of that amount. Mount Costi-


gans were once boomed with eminent success : now
none so poor as they who did them reverence.
Webbs are not so much fancied at 9s. as in the
old times when they were at 995., and Eveleens,
imperials, Lewis Ponds, Cordilleras, Rising Suns,
Victoria Cross and White Heads have all suffered
declines ruinous to holders. Cosgroves and a host
of other mines have passed in music—the wailing
of plungers, to wit—almost out of public sight.
# 3$
Noticing the intense excitement that prevails in
the mining market, one might be tempted to
imagine that mines were profitable properties.
Put such a surmise is not borne out by tiro records.
()f all the mining companies whose shares are
quoted in last month’s report, only four have re-
paid the amount of their share capital. The Great
Cobar—whose shares three years ago were sold at
9;w. and are now obtainable at 10s. —has paid
38s. fid. on its 20s. shares, Nymagee 235. fid. Band
and Albion has paid £33 17s. fid. on its £2O 4s.
stock, and Sunny Corner 275. on 18s. fid. These
are not very brilliant results, and even in such
cases holders lost very heavily, for the shares in
each instance have been at one time not less than
200 per cent, higher than the present selling price
and total dividends together. Such is the quality
of mining investment in the case of its best
successes. What happens in the less fortunate in-
stances, Taranganba, Kohinoor and a host of other
not yet dividend - paying ventures may feebly
testify.
* a z
We have said that, as in racing, there is in
mining a safe side to the game. That side is the
one occupied by brokers, promoters, and some
directors, managers and speculators. If you get
in with them, and work the game systematically,
you will be all right. If you don’t do so, but invest
for the sake of profits sooner or later you will
sorrowfully discover that you are only a “Jug-
gins” a term not acclimatised on the Stock
Exchange, although the article is in fuller supply
there than at Randwick. The distinction of
hawks and pigeons is as wide in mining ad in
racing circles, and in the long run there is less
chance for an outsider to make money backing
favourite shares than in backing favourite stables.
The former class include the men who build man-
sions in aristocratic suburbs and give b’g dona-*
tions to church-funds, or else back horses for
thousands. The latter, the investors, “who think
green thoughts for they are green,’’include gentle-
men who retire from two-storey mansions to live in
four-roomed cottages and retire from Australia by
reason of their unpopularity in financial circles,
and others who go up for ten years’ penal servi-
tude. This review of the situation is intended as
a moral for the hopeful mortals who think that
because a mine is reported to be good it will profit
t hem to buy shares at prices that would be exces-
sive if the mine was really good from a boomer
who would not sell the shares if the mine was any
good, and through a broker who charges for them
at top price although he buys them at the lowest
price, and, to show his perfect impartiality,
charges a commission to the buyer as well as to
the, seller. This reference may seem somewhat
obscure to the careless reader, but the lesson we
have striven to inculcate must be clear. Avoid
being a Juggins lest ultimately you be jugged.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Monopoly of Discord.
The wedding guest but “ beat his breast when
he heard the loud bassoon,” but the average
man wants to have someone’s blood when his
nerves arc unstrung by the wanton jangling
of those privileged bullock-bells which all over
Australia convert the alleged Day of Rest into
a long procession of hours of hideous torture.
The poet who writes lollipop-gush about bells
when heard from a distance—a very long distance
—ought to be surrounded by them in a wilderness
of bricks and mortar where there is no get-away,
and be condemned to pass his one day of rest in
the endeavour to extract harmony from their re-
morseless unending clang. He wants to have a
fagged wife and a sick child in his home under the
shadow of one of these steeples, before he can
understand how it feels to be eaten up with a
fierce longing to hurry out with firearms, and
shoot the ringer, brain the parson with a gun-
stock, and pursue the sleek churchwarden with
bricks and ragged lumps of profanity down a
steep place into deep water. Thousands of real
live Christians want to do this or something
worse every Sunday, because on that particular
day their lives are made a burden which it is
grievous to bear; and for no better reason than
because bell-ringing was the custom of our
gorilla ancestors iu the days when clocks and
watches were not, when men had perforce to go
and listen to the drivellings of their spiritual
pastoi’s and masters under penalty of the lash or
faggot— and when the ghastly ding-dong of a
church-bell was one ecclesiastic’s whoop of
exultation over the enforced dumbness of
the low unprivileged parson who was not
allowed by law to ring a bell at all.
Butnowadays most well-educated, brainy people
don’t go to church. The clergy themselves say so ;
they, with that utterly unconscious humour which
us the marked attribute of their cloth and chief
supporters, fill the columns of the daily press with
agonising wails about ungodly amusements out-
side and empty benches within ; and, in seeming
oblivion of the facts that there is nothing inside
worth listening to, and even less than that to serve
as a connecting-link between them and the
T ounder of the creed they profess to teach—they
persistently want t ' know why the people prefer
to worship after their own fashion in the free
ozone of the ocean beach, or in the shady nooks of
the tangled scrub, where the wild-flowers grow
and where there is no “fifthly and lastly” to startle
the listless dreamer with a sudden neck-jerking
snort into a temporary realisation of his often*
prophesied doom. The modern wage-earner wakes
gu Sunday to find a plate under Ins nose, but not
the conventional cedar or pewter article containing
a tew battered threepennies in an ocean of evil-
amelhng copper : a plate of clean delf piled with
™>U |r rippling with the crimson beauty of the
toothsome pie, A plate not clutched by the blunt
ana gnmy fingers of the pious stockbroker or con-
book-agent, but deftly balanced by the
' i ' ( % itB his eldest toddler, whose highest
earthly aim is to keep her frock clean and not cap-
• izc the offering. The man, and he is a type of
lousands, gets a day’s pleasant, wholesome rest,
Kl he has no notion of allowing you to forget it.
‘,° oue knows better than the clergyman that the
angour of his accursed bell adds not a solitary
eep to the tally of the fold ; but he will continue
0 maintain Ins privilege until the day comes when
e voice of the people arises in its wrath and in
■ e name of Common Humanity, Common
ecency, ;U |,| Common Sense dooms ids jingle-
of f? " mmau 9G with fog-horns and other things
1 \ e ] s . amc kind, to that utter extinction which
in n■ ''avc been theirs long since. When Parkes
uis imperial jim jam- are only remembered in
the light of a huge joke ; when Dunoan Gillies
and the sour-yisaged Puritans of Smellbourne are
struggling vainly on some far-distant planet for
the Sunday keys of the Public Library, where
they may escape for an hour or two from the heat;
when the Australian Republican hag hies over an
Australian nation, the people thereof may read
the records of to-day and briefly summarise their
easy-going progenitors as patient and long-suffer-
ing asses of the commonest and meanest variety.
■ -+-
The Age of Automatons.
1 he automatic machine, and kindred inventions,
by lessening the necessity for labour - no bad
thing if the hours of toil be lessened in proportion,
and distribution satisfactorily adjusted—threatens
to drive the labouring class to co-operation,
whether they will or no. An American back-
woods town owns an automatic machine, locally
known as “a blind tiger,” bearing the inscription :
“ Drop a coin in the slot, and draw out whisky at
the rate of two dollars a gallon.” The owner of
this inexpensive bar-room escaped conviction, as
it was impossible to prove Ins ownership. “Ben-
dragon ” has discovered a lamp-post in the Porte
bt. Martin, Paris, “ rather Tichborny about the
stomach, and supplied with a tap, a set of
glasses, and a slot into which you drop your
penny, •’ or rather ten centimes pieces, and receive
in return a glass of scalding hot wine. Then an
American has invented the phonortograph, which
is the size of a cigar-box, and weighs 5§ lbs. It
registers sound for reproductive purposes on a flat
surface, and is sold for a sovereign. In Mdison s
invention the impression of the words spoken into
it is made upon a cylinder which is inconvenient
to send through the post. In the “ phonorto-
graph ” the impression is made upon a flat sheet
of paper, which can be doubled up and sent
through the post like an ordinary letter in an
ordinary envelope—the paper, of course, having
to be specially prepared for the purpose. One
hundred thousand of these machines are already
in use at an annual rental of forty dollars each.
The main-line of the South-Eastern Railway
(Eng.) is being fitted-with electric reading-lamps
on the automatic principle. The light, contained
in a box five inches by three, is of five-candle
power, and is obtained by the introduction of a
penny at the top of the box, and by a subsequent
pressure of a knob, and will last for half-an-hour.
One of the special features of the invention is
that instrument is out of order the penny is
not lost, as it is in the present machines. It
drops right through and comes out at the bottom
of the box, so that it can be recovered, and the
same result happens in the case of any coin other
than a penny. Then MaoMahon, inventor of the
automatic-tape telegraph machine, has introduced
at the Brewer’s Exhibition (Lon.) a machine that
measures and records accurately every drop of
spirit drawn from a cask, and every pint of beer
pulled up from a barrel. In fact, a publican can
lie in bed and watch the halfpence rolling in with
the knowledge that no one is cheating him. The
era is rapidly approaching when the bloated
capitalist by simply getting out of bed and pulling
out certain organ-stops will cook his own meals by
means of electricity m a distant kitchen, brush
his own boots, feed and harness his horses, and
set going the machinery in his factory that
formerly required the labour of a thousand hands.
Of course it will then be argued as now that
he is perfectly at liberty to discharge un-
required workers, perfectly at liberty to absorb
all the profits of so-called labour-saving
machinery to his sole personal advantage, and at
perfect liberty to condemn hundreds of his fellow-
men to starvation. Of course he is, it will be a
perfect triumph for individualism, but the so-called
governing_ classes will also be involved in the
general ruin. For already automatic parsons on
the drop-a-penny-in-the-slot plan are in course of
construction, automatic doctors are already in use,
automatic Governors (guaranteed not to faint and
avoid handshaking) are considered necessary, and
automatic lawyers, premiers and monarchs will
follow in due course. But unless our present
inode of regulating the hours of labour and the
distribution of products be peaceably altered, the
triumph of the automaton will ultimately involve
either the annihilation of mankind or the whole-
sale extinction of class monopoly. The latter is
much the more probable.
Converting the Jews.
When MoEierk’s “Tartueee” so scandalised the
priesthood, he pointed out that a play called
“ Scaramouche Hennite,” of the most blasphemous
kind, drew crowds, but excited no notice. The
fact is, said Moliere, you may write what you
like about the Heavenly Bowers, but say a word
against tho-Briesthood, and they raise the cry at
once that you are an enemy of Religion. Of course
we will fall into that category if we venture to
smile at the United Brayer, summoned by the
Evangelical Alliance, for the Conversion of the
Jews. What are they to be converted to? A
good pastor was once asked to pray for the conver-
sion of the Indian Brahmins, and lie said “Good
Heavens, do I want the virtuous Brahmins to be-
come like the members of my congregation ? Do I
want them to become Evangelical Building Society
men, who devour widows’ houses, and for a pre-
tenet; make long prayers?” Yes, Gripe, of the
Building Society, Giltgore, the' Sweater, and
"Vellum, the Pious Lawyer (woe unto you
lawyers!), are all Evangelicals, and praying
away for the conversion of the Jews. There
is a proposal to convert the Egyptian Debt
from 15 per cent, and upwards to a level fi per
cent. This kind of conversion of the Jews might
be pleasant. Otherwise—not much. They say it
costs £BOO for every convert of the Society for the
Conversion of the Jews. Is it a good investment ?
What kind of article do you get ? Disraeli came
of Jewish stock, but was Christianised in
infancy, from prudential motives. What is
the value? Disraeli essentially remained a Jew.
Why begin with the Jews? A truly Christianising
movement has, in fact, been very rapid among
them, since Moses Mendelssohn flourished at
Berlin a century ago. Let the Evangelical
Alliance look up the names of Mendelssohn s
great friends and disciples, such as Wesselv,
Fhikdlander, Lowe, Hombero, Wolesohn,
Lindau, Herz, Eiichel, Bendavid. They set
themselves to tear the Shylock out of the Jewish
heart, and mitigate the love of the lb. of flesh.
With fair play, the Jew takes more than his share
in the work of Charity, which is the badge of
real Christianity, We wrote lately of a book
published to catch the votes of the Evangelical
Alliance, M. Drumont's “ La France Juive,”
that ferocious attack on the Israelites, To be
sure, with persecution lifted, they do indeed
shine in the intellectual ranks. The Roths
ohilds are the Monarchs (we are sorn for it),
Disraeli (we speak of dead men) is the
greatest name in English politics since BITT,
and who is the greatest in French? Why, the
Jew GamreTT.V. Vet, as recently as 1851,
Alderman Salomons was returned M.B. for
Greenwich, and fined toOfl because he omitted the
Words “On the true faith ol a Christian," in
taking the oath, being also obliged to retire from
Parliament. Time must be allowed to take the
taste of this out of the mouth. We find the
‘ \ Encyclopaedia Britannica” stating that the Jews’
Free School, of London, is probably the largest
and most efficient elementary school in England.
Phis is the best instrument of conversion from
the vices which have disfigured the Jew. The
Evangelicals would spoil a horn without making
a spoon.”
—-+.
" Poses Plastiques.
Since Lord Li ston’s didn’t-know-it-was-loaded
explanation of his little trouble was cabled to
Australia French dictionaries have been con-
stantly and vainly invoked to solve the mystery
involved in the words pones plastiques. But the
dictionaries don’t explain the phrase to any con-
siderable extent. Language is of short range
compared _ with human ingenuity applied to
artistic iniquity, and it would take very much
space to explain all that p.ps. mean in the classic
regions of London and Paris where this branch of
art has attained its greatest vogue, In their
ordinary style -poses plastiques are, represented by
the maximum amount of the human form not
divine, but very human—and the minimum of silk
tights, generally flesh-coloured. A pedestal to
each figure gives the necessary, but very thin, sug-
gestion of Art, the actors being elevated to that
height which modesty demands—generally about
two feet, bub in very refined circles three-
feet-six. But the plain pose plastique —the
p.p. au naturel —is merely the most simple
species of its inclusive genus. The idea
diffuses itself largely and may be extended to
air infinite degree. Historic scenes and figures
may be accurately exhibited by means of suitable
performers. The Greek Slave, Adam and Eve,
Andromeda chained to the rock, and Venus
rising from the sea, are roles for unscientific
apprentices at the business. Practised performers
are capable of much more interesting exhibitions
than these solo delineations. Such larger tableaux
as—well, say, for instance—J ohn signing Magna
Charta at Kunnymede, or the landing of the Pil-
grim Fathers, and other scenes that may suggest
themselves, are capable of admirable reproduction
by means of evidently living models. The moral
effect of this branch of art may be questioned by
some intensely good people, but on the other hand
it may well be urged in terms of an antediluvian
chestnut that “ to the pure all things are pure
even the performers in poses plastiques. This
plea does not avail much with the police, and
consequently this branch of art has—especially
of late years—been studied mainly in very
exclusive and high-toned West End clubs.
P. ps. have been, perhaps unworthily, discredited
in popular estimation by reason of the fact that
Britain’s aristocracy have been the chief promoters
of such exhibitions : vulgar people are wont to be-
come prejudiced against any amusement reserved
to the nobility, but enquiry would probably prove
that a base and despicable envy is accountable for
the popular bias. (Scanning the subject from an
Antipodean range, we are able, in an unprejudiced
style, to declare that poses plastiques are not capa-
ble of degrading the aristocrats who are accus-
tomed to view them. You can’t degrade some
people anyhow, any more than you can spoil
election eggs.
-♦
Arrgusta’s Snuffles and Australia's Guns.
Auu Ist a, Dowager Empress of Germany, last
week caught the snuffles and died. The eableman
says she “ passed peacefully away,” yet no sooner
do people in Sydney grasp the idea than they
idiotically begin to bombard the heavens for four
awful hours with big guns and blank cartridge in
order to wake up the saint on duty and have a
celestial guard of honour turned out to receive
this woman, whose life or death was a matter of
absolute unconcern to Australians; who was
neither a sovereign nor a reigning head, even in
her own sausage-fed country, but merely the grand-
mother of the most insolent and ill-conditioned
puppet in all Europe. As a family connection of
the brood who reign over England she must there-
fore have been considered worthy of this infernal
clatter —which was a scourge to the sick and a
curse to the dying for miles around —this expendi-
ture of Australian money and fireworks. But con-
sidered by whom ? By Baron Carington or Sir
1. O. U. Pahkes, K.C.M.G. ? Did the desire to
perpetrate this attack on Heaven arise in the
grovel-seared seat of their intelligences simul-
taneously, or was a meeting held at which
it was decided to make a raid on the
revenue for the price of the powder to boost
this miserable ballet-tortured old woman into
eternity at the cost of a meek and brainless
people, who are thus being tutored in the Imperial
school of sham and glitter ? If there be any
democratic representatives of the people in the
Assembly who are not yet sufficiently brutalised
by the receipt of an annual salary to eat dirt in
the presence of a common pirate, the question
should be asked, “What servant of the public was
such a dog as to do this thing?” and it might
properly be followed up by a query as to who
authorised the reckless squandering of the People’s
money for the supply of Baron Caiungton’s
family badge of the thx’ee balls, done in silver,
and issued as decorations to the barbers and other
Lancers under his command? There are poor
people in New South Wales who possess neither
Pabkes’ ability to borrow money, nor Caking ton’s
opportunities for looting the Treasury to the tune
of £7OOO a year and “ perks.” In their interests it
will shortly be necessary to have another lock on
the door, the key of which must be kept by the
people themselves.
. ♦-
The old story of the dog that bit the man and
disappointed the local gossips by dying instead of
the man, as they foretold, received recently at
Wellington (New South Wales) a modern repeti-
tion. A boy appeared before his Honor Judge
Docker charged with indecent assault. The
Court, having heard the prisoner’s plea of not
guilty, was prepared to listen to the spicy story
which a pleasant-looking country girl was ex-
pected to unfold, but whether it was the smile of
the Crown-Prosecutor or nervousness begotten by
a first appearance in a court of high jurisdiction,
the prosecutrix seemed to be tongue-tied, and
neither the blandishments of the C.P. nor an
intimation from the Judge that he could give her
12 months in gaol did extract from the blushing
girl any details. “(She would not say what she
said before the magistrate " was all that she was
understood to say, whereupon the Crown repre-
sentative entered a mlh prosequi on the charge
in the indictment. To-day the accused is a free
man, but the said-to-be aggrieved girl, who sought
the aid of Justice's double-edged sword, is a
prisoner in Wellington Gaol, committed for twelve
months for contempt of Mr. Justice Docker's
Court. First moral : Others than engineers are
occasionally hoist with theinnvn petard. Second :
Is the Law going to exact its pound of flesh from
a girl whose only crime may be that she is ex-
tremely modest 2 .
“ An unobjectionable method of reducing the sur*
plus,” is what President Harrison is pining for
at present. Without mentioning any names w«j
can indicate two New South Wales politicians
who could show him a whole lot of methods to this
end. They have between them so far reduced the
surplus that the Treasury maintains a perpetual
void, which nothing but new taxation will ever be
sufficient to abolish. But that is not the trouble
with the States. The surplus of last year totalled
£11,500,000, and the Government expect that
matters will be even worse this year. If they can
keep the surplus of 1800 down to last year’s total
• they will think themselves lucky, but there is a
fear that it will touch £15,000,000.** They have
paid off as many of their loan creditors as they can
get hold of, but the rest obstinately keep out of
the way, and refuse to receive the value of the
bonds they hold. They prefer to get the interest.
This trouble about a surplus is almost unique.
Political railways might be found efficacious as a
remedy, and if these should not be wholly efficient,
the creation of a Casual Labour Board would -pro-
bably cause the desired deficit to appear. And if
all else fails, the Americans might try a few years
of Preetrade, which, as a creator of deficits, is un-
surpassed by any policy yet discussed.
The Age- while discussing “loyalty” in an
article which faces both ways, as usual—remarks
that " the section of Irishmen who have been in a
state of covert rebellion against the laws of their
country for years past consists almost exclusively
of Roman Catholics.” That the Home Rule
leader happens to lie Protestant is a significant
fact conveniently overlooked by the prejudiced
Melbourne journal, although it would naturally
suggest itself to the most careless of readers. But
facts not so generally remembered are that the
existing laws of Ireland were made for Protestant
landowners, and are enforced almost solely in the
interests of such, to the unbearable oppression of
tenants who are almost exclusively Catholics.
Another trifling matter, worthy of passing con-
sideration. That “ section of Irishmen” now in a
state of covert rebellion has contrived to return
nine-tenths of the Irish members to the present
British Parliament. The Age evidently has
elastic notions regarding “sections,” as the term
is intended to be understood in this case. It will
shortly be telling us that Radicalism in Australia
is entirely confined to the group of indivi-
duals who are not invited to official banquets
and Government House garden-parties.
Portugal struggles to revive its great colonial
strength of the past. It possesses Goa, on the
West coast of India, but England will snap that
up if they got to blows. Goa was a magnificent
city 300 years ago, when the Portuguese made it
almost equal to Lisbon. Albuquerque and
"Vasco ot Gama were the chief heroes who won
the Portuguese colonies. They had a better foot-
ing in India in 1000 than England had in 1750.
’Serpa Pinto, now so troublesome on the Zambesi,
recalls Pinto, the famous Portuguese adventurer,
of 300 years back. He was regarded as the
Portuguese Munchausen, but, as in the case of
Marco Polo, his “Travellers’ Tales” proved in
the main correct. Congreve, in his play of
“Love for Love,” makes one character say to
another, “ You are as big a liar as Pinto.” The,
rise of Portugal denoted the fall of Venice, which
used to get all the Asian trade, before the dis-
covery of the Cape of Good Hope poured it into
the lap of Portugal.
.
Ti is amazing to what lengths Governments will
go, until checked by public opinion. In Mel-
bourne the Excise department has hit on a new
and bright idea, employing Chinamen as informers.
They brought a case last week against an un-
licensed restaurateur, for selling two nobblers of
whisky, which appear to have been obtained from
a neighbouring hotel. Anyhow, the case was dis-
missed, but Mr, Shuter, P.M., expressed his
disagreement with a vehement attack made by
Mr. Gaunson on Chinese credibility, the in-
formers being two Chinese employed direct by the
Government officers, to pot supposed offenders too
familiar with the European informer’s visage. The
mere mention of the fact of Chinese informers
being employed to convict Europeans, or Austra-
lians, ought to suffice to squash it. What a
beautifully congenial work for the Chinese charac-
ter ! Everyone knows, without being told by Mr.
Shuter, how truthful all Asiatics are. The re-
spectable Chinese, above all, ought to discounten-
ance this informing, as tending to increase the
odium in which they are held.
+
Breaking at Hartford, for the Salisbury Ministry
probably, Sir John Ferguson said that: “To
many the deposition of the Emperor of Brazil and
the proclamation of the Republic might appear of
little consequence, but the Government was re-
sponsible to the British creditors who had risked
£60,000,000 in Brazilian stock and to the traders
and cotton merchants who, between them, ex-
ported and imported some £14,000,000 annually,
and if the institutions of the country under the
Republic were not settled to the satisfaction of
the Government he did not know what the
Ministry might not be compelled to do. The
‘ golden link ’ of the Crown had been severed, and
therefore bondholders had no faith in the in-
tegrity of the Republic.” And these are the
utterances of a “ statesman !” There are still
some Tories who have learnt nought from the
Egyptian affair, when the attempt to protect
the interests of British bondholders at the expense
of the British taxpayer caused rivers of blood to
flow, crushed the aspirations for liberty of a
cruelly ill-used people and expended ten times the
money at stake.
Constable Moseley, of Penrith (N.S.W.), armed
with a muzzle-loading revolver of the time of
Pharaoh Neco, fired four shots at close quarters
at a mad Cingalese who had carved unto death
two citizens of this coming Republic with a
butcher’s knife in the highway of that ancient
burgh. The first shot missed tire, the second got
into the darkey’s stomach, the third went off but
hit nobody in particular, and the fourth emulated
the first. The people of Penrith mistook the
row for another gunpowder diversion in the
interests of the late Empress Augusta, until
they realised the unequal nature of the strug-
?;le between the Christian warrior with the
earsome shooter and the heathen with his un-
erring little eight-inch knife. Then they knocked
the latter silly with chunks of road-metal and
dumped him into the lock-up. The money-value
of the powder expended on behalf of the lamented
Augusta would suffice to arm the police of New
South W ales with any sort of a modern pistol
which will hit a man every time in the same placi
at three yards, and kill something or somebody at
every pull of the trigger. The muzzle-loading
Colts of the Moseley armoury are a portion of
the condemned surplus purchased by England
prior to the Crimean war. If a policeman has tc
shoot in his own defence, then, in the name o
Heaven give him something more deadly than .
boiled cafrotto fight for his life with!


Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
A literary treat for Australians abroad
and for absent friends of Australian readers of Thh
Bulletin : “ A Golden Shanty -Australian stories
and sketches in prose and verse by Bulletin
writers.” The brightest, best and most original
shilling book ever published in this country. Send
it to your English friends whom Sladen’s Anthology
has disgusted. One shilling; postage in Australia
sd. extra.
“The leading Packet Tea in New South Wales
is the Famous Billy Tea. Its consumption is
at least double that of any other brand in the
market.”
PACKED ONLY BY
James Inglls «Sc Co >«
4 & 6 Dean’s Place SYDNEY.
[?]
846 Macquarie-street North, Sydney, January 15, 1890.
My Dear Moorabinda
I have been in the country—the bounding billowing
greenhide and bacon country where the weary city re-
paired) to sleep the sleep of peace far from the madding
tram and the dog next door. And the experiment was a
failure. Let me warn those persons who flee from the
heat to come to give a wide berth to the fashionable
boarding-establishment situated facing the railway-Station
For at midnight they shunt trucks, and the unearthly
clanking row is enough to disturb the slumbers of a hired
girl. Then in the early small hours a train goes by with
a blood-curdling yell and you start from your pillow
excitedly enquiring if the murderer has escaped ? Why
they always shunt at midnight, and why the early trains
howl for a mile after passing a station, are questions that
a nervous philanthropist might undertake to explore in
Parliament.
How long-suffering are the Caringtons ! Only the
other day we were told how Governor Hopetoun loudly
protested against the curtailed dimensions of the vice-
regal country-residence, with the consequence that more
Victorian gold is to be expended in adding some more
chambers to accomodate the liveries and the flour-barrels,
and from the droughty North we learn how the Wylie
Norman is going to alter the site of the gubernatorial
summer residence—but when has the weary Caringtonian
voice ever raised itself in tired protest against the razzle-
dazzle condition of its rural front-gate ? The residence
itself is all very well, and the belt of firs that go imind
about it hides its exterior short-comings from the carping
agriculturalist—but even a drover couldn’t forgive the
entrance. The lodge is tidy enough, but the gate (of a
grimy grey-white hue) is hanging on its hinges, and
wouldn’t be much hurt if its fastenings were the ring of
rusty hoop-iron so fashionable out back, while the screech
of its hinges as it opens unto ye is enough to induce a
nervous headache. Then the boundary-fence is a primi-
tive weather-beaten two-railer through which the itiner-
ant nanny and the lost tyke stray in and out of their own
sweet will, and altogether, only as far as the exterior
goes, for its internal fittings are cosy enough, “ Ichabod ”
would be the very title for the vice-regal residence at
Sutton Forest. Lady Carington seems to accept the two-
railer and the derelict gate with the calm fortitude of the
early Christians, and is looking particularly cheerful
just now.
Why do not women organise and demand better treat-
ment, as men have done and shown them how to do ? The
latest victims to gilded Man’s rapacity are the stewardesses
on coasting steamers, and their complaint is that where
stewards will not sail unless provided with a berth,
stewardesses are promised a bed, but on crowded voyages
it is always taken from them without ceremony. On a
recent trip the stewardess was told to “ find a bed in the
saloon,” but as several sofas and the tables were occupied
by male travellers, she “passed” the proffered accommo-
dation and sat up all night for three nights while the
stewards—owing, of course, to the Union—were never
deprived of their nocturnal perch. It’s a sad state of
affairs, but women know their remedy. A Stewardesses’
Union would see that nobody took their bunks from
them. Probably, however, it will be remarked that as
the stewards have already bunks, a union of stewards and
stewardesses in the holy bonds of matrimony would be a
shorter way out of the difficulty.
It is a fairly well-recognised fact that the average Bene-
dict on his travels doesn’t wear a wedding-ring, nor allude
to his wife more frequently than is striotly r necessary in a
mixed company of nice girls, but to do my own sex jus-
tice I must conscientiously submit that when wives roam
far from their appreciative spouses, the company at table,
and everywhere else, aren’t allowed to remain in ignorance
of the existence of their legal proprietors longer than say,
ten seconds. I have been suffering in the society of these
sentimental grass widows, and I feel that all those cruel
jokelets about their gay behaviour with nice young men is
bitter sarcasm on the part of an over-coddled husband.
At breakfast the.v will mope dejectedly', loudly wondering
if Gus, or Chawles, or Edwin would write to-day ? If they'
got letters, they would devour them hungrily while the
others would sulk over their coffee, and retire with a “bad
headache” when sounds of gurgling sobs would issue
through the key-hole. Two slept together, and all night
long you could hear them telling one another how
“ Chawles liked his pillows,” or how she always “wakes
Gus up when he’s suffering from nightmare,” and then a
plaintive duet, “ I wonder how the dear boy’s getting on
now ? ” and more marital anecdotes, some of which won’t
stand reporting. There was a nice young man on the
premises who tried to bo en rapport with one of these
maudlin young women, and she went for many drives and
walks with him, but after a while I saw that he had taken
to dodging her, and demanded the reason. “She’s nice
enough,” he said, dismally, “ if only she wouldn’t keep on
about her Gussie. I was told how he liked horses and
••logs, and even how many cigars he smoked a week, but
when she told me how Vie always wore sanitary socks, I
felt very tired.”
At a meeting of the Sydney Evangelical Association,
the other day—an Association run more on a flower-and-
tract than a tea-and-sugar basis-a “Bible Woman” re-
marked that she had visited many sick and dying ones
during the month ; some had testified to the joy and com-
fort rendered by her visits; all had expressed their grati-
tude to the association for the bountiful tea and gifts at
Christmas time. Quite so. Some testified to the “ joy
and comfort ” of her visits. All expressed their grati-
tude for’the plum-pudding. What a cynic that Bible-
woman must be !
The first public function Mayor Burdekin will hold is to
celebrate Anniversary Pay, when a joyous and other
mayoral fireworks will do honour to the National Birth-
day. On 24th inst. the Mayoress holds her initial recep-
tion at Sydney Exhibition Building from three to six, and
paralysing preparations are being made to signalise the
event. On 28th inst. the return cricket-match N.S.W. v.
Victoria is to eventuate on Sydney Association Ground,
and is sure to be an interesting and fashionable affair.
Says a “ Home Hints ” crank in a recent journal:—
Make your girls and boys study philosophy. When they
are ill try and make them comprehend why and how their
complaint arose, and the remedy so far as you know it.
Very pretty—if parents behaved themselves, but
would it work actually ? When mamma has dressed Sissy
in a short skirt and long bare shanks in a howling wind and
the kid gets influenza, how on earth could she dare to
allow her to grasp that her sneeze is directly attributable
to mamma’s love of Style? Or if papa loads Henry up
with ice-cream and green apples, and he gets the stomach-
ache what loyal wife would stand over the infant and
concisely state, “Yes, dear, that identical twinge is
directly due to your dear father ! ” No—the best way to
manage your olive-branch when you’ve laid it on a bed
of sickness is to fill it up with nostrums and promise it a
whacking when it gets well. Explanations would lead to
too great a loss of parental dignity and infallibility
altogether.
At the recent all-day conference of the Sydney Women's
Prayer Union the subject of “ Love ” occupied the atten
tion of the house from eleven to one o’clock ; the subject
was well handled by the different speakers, who urged
that there is need for the display of more love and unity
among professing Christians. Just so. A woman may
wear large boots and the corners of her mouth tied Under
her chin and exchange her vinaigrette and fan for a
thumbed hymn-book and a rusty umbrella, but she’s a
woman under it all and likes to argue on the amatory
question as well as her worldly sister. But won’t the
various thick-lipped, soft-voiced Sowers of the Seed
rejoice exceedingly when they hear the satisfactory senti-
mental conclusion their dear sisters have come to !
On dit that Sydney Liedertafel (which, unlike the Met-
ropolitan, has never introduced a feminine chorus) intends
giving a huge festival this year, when the choristers wil
all be both ladies and “ miss.” It is a sage decision, for
women’s voices greatly add to the musical effect and their
appearance in the simple white gowns always worn on
these occasions lightens up the gloom of the black-coated
platform wonderfully. And, speaking of the arts, a
Sydney daily says that “Mr. Irving’s visit is only a matter
of time and arrangement.” Quite so. It is only a matter
of time in the case of every London electric light. Mr.
Toole affords one instance, and Sir Charles Halle, who,
as a musical critic remarks, “ knew the whole series of
Beethoven’s sonatas by heart before many of us were born,”
as another. Australia is practically the Benevolent Asylum
for—er—mature British professionals.
Those costly garters now glorifying the shop-windows
are, I find, seldom purchased by women. Verb. sap.
Sydney Royal has had its face washed since last your
Sappho blocked the doorway, and the precious sage-
greenness of the chair-coverings and the prodigal gilding
all about rival the gorgeous hues of the pantomime. Two
things I don’t like are the Chinese drop-scene, which sug-
gests typhoid oabbagee, and the cab-lanterns stuck
round the walls. As to the ballet, the fan-dance is a very
fetching frivolity “in its ease and nice suggestion,” as
the critic of a pious paper puts it, and the blue and white
gowns of butterfly tints are very “sweet,” while over all
the show—the groupings, the gownings, the colours, the
gags—is the trail of the Gaiety crowd. As the Princess,
Violet Varley looks Dresden-ohina-ish in a pink satin gown
draped with moss-green, and, later, in ivory satin
broidered with gold and shoulder-sash of peacock-
blue, she looks pretty enough to keep all the girls
out of the theatre, though in the mandolin song she
should remember to move the hand that rests on the
shifts as well as the hand that twangs the catgut to give
effect to the sham accompaniment. As the painfully
clean hero Jennie Lee wears a lovely get-up in tans and
plays a life-like lover, so far as a matronly little
woman of considerably over seven can he life-
like in such a role, but her singing of “ United Aus-
tralia” isn’t more-ish, and she chatters too fast to be
audible sometimes. When she was singing the patriotic
lilt a child behind me asked: “ Ma, what's the matter with
that pretty lady ?” The show ends up with some laboured
clowning, of course. A panto, without the harlequinade
would be like a wake without a corpse—but then children
like the property sausages and the hot poker, and if you
don’t you can easily take up your wraps and walk.
Says a would-be fashionable journal, “Tilting the bonnet
on the back of the head is the latest device with girls who
want to look jaunty.” Exactly. So is wearing a Broh-
dignagian bustle, a big fringe, high-heeled boots and
Jubilee red. These are all “jaunty” devices, and the very
latest thing — in Woollooraooloo.
Rupert Carington’s fiancee, who has been ill for six
weeks, took a turn for the better the other day, and the
medicos in attendance entertain hopes of an early conval-
escence. Rupert’s own health remains in statu quo, as it
were.
Yours affectionately,
SAPPHO SMITH.
Lord Rosebery is said to be the coming
English Liberal leader.
Spain has gone for Protection. John
Haynes will now give us long articles attributing
the change to “Popery.”
The Parkes party look forward to dissolv-
ing Parliament in May next, and arrangements 1
are being made accordingly.
The average of pauperism per 1000 inhabi*
tants is less in London than in any of the small
towns of England. The average death-rate is also
less. Sir John Lubbock is the slayer of supersti-
tions in this instance.
The Belfast Newsletter has admitted
that its statements concerning Mr. Sexton were
“ absolute fictions, destitute of the smallest
foundation,” and has paid him £5OO in earnest of
its repentance. Sexton is now proceeding against
the Scotsman for publishing the same libel :
damages £5OOO.
Lord Bertie has come back at last to claim
his Sydney bride. Lord Porchester, heir to the
Earl of Carnarvon, will shortly arrive in Sydney.
Ho is 23 years old and very sickly. Lord Cawdor
and his bear-leader will also be in Australia
shortly. Very soon peers will be as plentiful (and
as cheap) as bandicoots.
On his voyage to India Albert Victor had
a table for himself and chums, seventeen seats, re-
served on the Oceana. He joined her at Suez,
she was eight days coming to Bombay—which
means 24 meals. When His Nibs came off the
ship, he left £2 to be divided between the five
stewards who waited on himself and party —a
shilling per day, or fourpence per meal. And his
chums did not leave a cent.
The most beautifully illogical thing we ever
heard of is the Pope contrasting the liberality of
America with that of Italy. But suppose he set
up his claim to temporal power in the United
States —say at Baltimore, his strongest city. The
fact is the Pope is all the more powerfol for being
stripped of temporalities. The more you take
away from him the greater he is, as Emerson
writes of the truly great man.
An ancestral haul—the Carington-Horsfall
marriage.
Gov. Hopetoun’s flunkies no longer appear
on the “ State-coach ” in powdered wigs.
A man has been locked up in Darlinghurst
Gaol for the past four years for a debt of £lB—
costs.
No holiday season was ever the occasion of
so many deaths by misadventure. Shocks to the
system were best repaired by the use of Marshall s
Tonic Nervine.
Mr. Ernest Parke, editor of the North
London Press, who has by his attack on Lord
Euston brought into the light of day the horrible
London club scandals, is not only editor of the
North London Press, but is also sub-editor of 1.
P. O’Connor’s paper, the Star.
The Sydney Open Call Exchange must
prove a boon to those whose occupation engrosses
their attention during the day. it is now possible
to transact all mining and other business m the
evenings, as the Call Room is open for business at
8 p.m. every evening, 139 King-street.
Captain Pasco, R.N., concluded his paper
on “ Antarctic Exploration ” at the Melbourne
Science Congress with the following glorious
peroration :—“ And methinks X hear the voice of
our Gracious Sovereign the Queen (whose honoured
name this colony is proud to bear) saying “ Vic-
toria expects every man to do his duty.” Thus is
Science “advanced.” Steward !
Sydney Daily Telegraph in its cable-
grams speaks of Premier Salisbury as “the noble
lord.” Now, no newspaper-proprietor or League
would ever be ass enough to pay five shillings for
the transmission from England to Australia of the
three words quoted. The inference is that the
D.T. deliberately went out of its way to say that
Salisbury was not only a “ lord ” but that he was
also “noble.” We are sadly afraid that some-
body on the paper has been to Hingland lately.
Sands’ Sydney and Surburban Directory
for 1890 has come to hand. As usual, it contains
city and surburban streets, alphabetical, trades and
professions, parliamentary, municipal, official,
civil, postal and miscellaneous lists, corrected and
revised to latest possible dates, by a personal can-
vas and from official sources. The size of the
work has been greatly increased, as it contains at
least 15,000 more names than last year's issue, and
also, in addition to some very fine maps, a quantity
of information not in former edition».
It is stated that Dr. Cockburn, the S.A.
Premier, will “get left” next week. The two
Houses of Parliament will meet to elect two mem-
bers to represent that province at the Federal
Council. Playford, leader of the Opposition in
the Lower House, will certainly be chosen as one
of the representatives, and there is more than a
chance that Baber, the leader of the Opposition in
the Upper House, will be his fellow. The
Ministry, of course, want Cockburn, the Premier,
to be one of the chosen, and he may be, after all.
Sagasta, the Spanish Premier, is a Repub-
lican turncoat. What nonsense it is maintaining
a King three years old, and waiting for him to
become a man.” He will be brought up amid all
those virtuous influences which go to make men
like George IV Castelar, the eloquent Spanish
Republican, has lost heart since the failure of the
Republic in 1873, but yet it is a glorious fact that
Spain was a Republic for one year at all events.
That record cannot be obliterated. Zorrilla is
the most Useful Republican Radical. He lives in
exile in England, France, and Switzerland.
It is cabled that Broadley Pasha has fled
from London owing to an accusation in re the
Cleveland club scandals. Broadley is well known
to many people in Australia. He is a comfortable-
looking old gentleman who is a barrister by pro-
fession, and had the honour of defending Arabi
Bey, the Egyptian nationalist, when he was tried
for his life. Broadley was an indispensable ele-
ment at all Bohemian London gatherings, and
used often to go to sleep after dinner, but when he
was awake he could say some very neat things.
He had a nice house full of curios in Bryanston-
street, right next door to Mrs. Gordon-Baillie’s —
that is to say, next door to the residence in which
Mrs. G. B. shepherded a gilded old gentleman
named Sir Something King, whom she passed off
upon a guileless public as her grandfather.
A writer to the Otago Witness thus
describes a visit to a N.S.W. back-blocks shanty
“ Two black lubras were drinking ‘ laspbelly ’ and
lemonade at the expense of a Gft. white man, and
smacked their lips (and such lips) in enjoyment.
One of them had her arm round his waist, and the
other had hers round his neck. One was dressed
in a short petticoat and a broad grin—nothing
else—so that the upper part of her body and bust
(shade of Venus, such a bust!) was exposed to
public admiration. The other had on a ’possum
rug fastened to the throat, nothing else except her
companion’s arm, which he vainly tried to get
round her—l was going to say waist, but she had
none ; but it was a vain endeavour, for his arm
was not long enough by at least 4ft. Surely, I
thought, civilisation is not a failure, after all.”
The Hotel Metropole, an edifice of six
stories and a basement floor—surmounted by an
electrically-lighted open-air promenade 108 feet
above ground—with frontages to Phillip, Bent,
and Young streets, Sydney, is now open to the
public, under the management of the ex-
perienced and popular Mr. L. Erckmann.
The total cost of this splendid caravanserai
up to date has been £160,000; it contains 250
bedrooms, all provided with double-sashed plate-
glass windows, with accommodation for 300 sleepers,
and attached to the double-bedded rooms on every
floor are spacious balconies, while the furnishing
and conveniences, lavatories, bath-rooms, &c.,
are equally numerous and well-fitted on every
landing right throughout the building. Some
idea of the manner in which the 1 public comfort is
attended to may be gathered from the fact that
there are thirty bath-rooms in the building,
several dining-rooms, public, private, and family
reception, reading, smoking, and billiard-rooms.
A very handsome and wide staircase runs from
the reception-hall to the roof, but for those who
like ease there are elevators for passengers and lug-
gage. The floors throughout are covered with
nicely-patteraed and soft carpets, which, with the
draperies of various styles, from Louis XIII.
tapestry through buckram, guipure and plush to
Madras muslin, were supplied by Messrs. Beard,
Watson & Co., of George-street. The contract was
in the hands of Mr. W. H. Jennings, the archi-
tects were Messrs. Twentyman and Arthur, Mel-
bourne and Messrs. Sheerin and Hennessey, Syd-
ney ; and the general management up to the day of
opening was in the hands of Mr. W. P. Small.
The reproach that Sydney is insufficiently pro-
vided with accommodation for travellers lias no
longer any truthful foundation..
CORRESPONDENCE
“Silverton” (Essex): Many thanks. Will
make the most of “W. Edwards” (R’hampton):
Turner and Henderson, Sydney, will mail you Francis
Adams’ “Songs of the Army of the Night” for half-a-
orown and postage “ E. F. Harden”: Why not send
us something cheerful for once in a way? Look at our
Christmas issue: everybody written about in it died or
was murdered. It isn’t every man who has the gift of
appreciating undertakers’ humour “Possum” (Ips-
wich) : Very uneven. Try again, the faculty is worth
cultivation... “ J.G.K.” : Will try. Handed to artist....
“ W. 8.” (Wagga): Thanks. Keep moving.. ... “Chew-
Gum ”; If total abstinence were a condition of
church - membership few pews would be let
“Papa”: Thanks “Pat Rooney”: We rejoice even
when a Chow cheats the gallows “ S.S.” : You say
there is not another man alive who could have written
such an essay. We’ll take your word for it after reading
two sides of your MS. . “Frank Everett ”: To prevent
confusion, probably, Nature has decreed that the in-
heritor of a poetic name shall seldom inherit poetic
genius. We print one verse of your jeremiad as a warn-
ing to possum-poets;—
To Sydney.
“ Where the ophidian kiss of a Borgia lurks,
Inherent but not inert;
Where the heart is an ulcer ’neath radiant smirks,
And virtue is scintillant dirt.”
This is gorgeous bosh, and suggests to us the repentance
following Krishmish “Anthony Morgan” ; As you
remark, the founder of an “ Empire,” as a rule, aspires to
the position of Emperor ..“A.W. W.”: Mr. Justice Windeyer
is the best lawyer on the N.S.W. Bench bar one and tire
worst judge under Heaven bar none,... “ Truth ” : Your
vague generalities make us tired ... “ Kate the Slattern”:
Bad servants, like your poets, are irrepressibly plentiful
.... “ A.W.” : Verses too unmetrical. Stories under con-
sideration. ... “ Geo. G.” : Your article is very weak in
one particular. Should the British educational system
adopt the State-Socialistic scheme of supplying also phy-
sical sustenance, it is scarcely likely that starving parents
will withdraw children in order to send them to employ-
ments where their efforts will not be equal to the provi-
sion of their food. They will keep them at school while
the law allows “Cosmopolitan”: Thanks “J. P.”
(Towers); Mainly of private interest “J.M.”:Have
already devoted over much space to a limited subject ....
“N. J. R.”: Thank you “Omni Providence” : Mainly
rum and true religion—mostly nun H. C. T.”; The
story could be better told in ten lines—and then there
would be nothing in it “W. R. H.” (Cowra): Thanks.
H. W. K.” (Bairnsdale) : Very pretty, but diamonds
of such lustre are not in our vein. .. “E. G.” (Welling-
ton): Scarcely suitable. Send something snappy
“Pivot”: Unsuitable. Thanks “11. J.” (Hughen-
den): Condense and polish “Chew Gum”: Conun-
drum too long-winded. Brevity is supposed to
be the soul of wit “ James H.” : Your verses on Searle
would kill the monument movement as dead as a tomb-
stone “E. Watson”: Why not say it in prose?
“ A.W.8.” : No. Queen Victoria lias not been to Ireland
since 1861.... “ C. A.” (P.) : Thanks.... “ J.R.M.” (Armi-
dale): Not at all bad ; may u5e....“ Warrigal Jack ” :
To hand “Buster”; No, the present infrequency
of garotting is not due to the lash. If you want to know
the ethics of the question, write to Mr. P. A. Taylor,
M.P. of the House of Commons, and ask him to let you
have a copy of the speech he delivered on the subject
years ago. We had the speech, but have lost it
“ E.A.0.” : When writing again, please let your name
and address be plainly written on the first sheet of your
MS. as well as on the accompanying letter . ..“W.S.”’
(S. Wooburn): Received “ M.G.8.H.”: Will consider...
“W. O’T.” : Slush “Norman Gray”: An old story-
localised... “W.H.P.”: Words ; idle words “ Giron-
din”; Thanks for the prescription “M.G.” (Summer
Hill): Neither of the items printable. They are purely of
private interest,... “D. O’C.” (Flemington): Very good,
indeed. Write again..,.“C. R. Wilton”: Are you not
wrong? Biblical teaching is followed in the matter, and
there marriage with a deceased husband’s brother is
strictly enforced “Honi”; As you say so, it is pro-
bably the mission of mine-promoters to rob and deceive
the public, but it is as certainly the mission of the press
to expose these swindles. What the pressmen would do
were they mine-promoters does not affect their present
position.'...“ G. H.” ; Which side does Murray take ? We
aren’t quite sure about it “F. H. N.” (Geelong); We
admire your sentiments, but you can’t write verse
“C. W. B.”; Tell us. please, the name of our eminent
female humorist. And, while you are about it, you might
let us know the name of one woman who has written a-
first-class comedy or drama—“ Helen J. H.”: Many
thanks. Good yarn “T. R. S.” : You arc quite right.
“ Mom us” : Words, Idyl words “ Skitastio ” : Much.
better, though sense throughout is subservient to sound.
“ G. E; P.” : If the owner of the ground has brought
the water-frontage you cannot legally land ; if, however,,
the water frontage'was reserved by the Crown when the
land was alienated, you have landing-right up to high-water-
mark. We are enquiring as to Vaucluso and the oyster-
matter “Nellie Raymond”: You don’t make the best
of a shockingly weak incident “A.E.G.: Unavailable,
though a tolerably good topical song. Send it to Mr.
Royce for the Sydney Royal Pantomime ....“ H.J.J. ” r
Thanks, but as a libel is possibly involved, it would not
be safe to rely on a report founded confessedly on mere-
recollection. No newspaper would in such a case accept,
anything, save the notes of an expert shorthand-writer.
“T. Bttffey ”; Let them write again demanding satis-
faction. If none forthcoming, communicate with rrs
“Midmuir”; Thanks. Dog-story good. Why doesn't
the second lad proceed for false arrest ?—[Many letters
held over. ]


SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Theatre R0ya1..,. “Aladdin.”
Her. Majesty's “A Midsummer Night’s
Dream.”
Criterion, ... “ Friends.”
CyoijOrama Battle of Gettysburg,
School of Arts Harry Rickards’ Company.
Palace Museum The Mermaid.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Theatre Royal “ Cinderella.”
Alexandra “ Monte Christo.”
Opera House “ Widow O’Brien.”
Princess’ “ Doctor Cupid.”
St. George’s Halli. .... “ Arabian Nights."
Town Hall Santley Farewells.
At Sydney Criterion big business prevails,
and “Friends’’may run for another month; in
case it should not the busy “ Bs ” have “ Balloon,”
a farcial comedy, in active preparation.
** * *
The Pantomime of “ Aladdin,” at Sydney
Royal, in which the brightest spots, apart from the
scenery, are the dancing of Miss M. Weir and her
aspiring colleagues and gymnastics of the Bonhair
Brothers, continues to draw enormous houses, and
the overflow of the stalls nightly crowds the dress-
circle. Gorgeously-arrayed youths, hitherto accus-
tomed to the gallery’s wooden benches, are
occasionally seen with muddy hoofs and cloven
breath taking a bee-line from the back of the
circle to the front row, over busts and seat-backs
during the intervals. Appreciation of Slade
Murray’s vocalisation is evidently an acquired—
very shortly-acquired —taste, judging from the
encores he receives nightly. The harlequinade is
a much-spangled and sausaged failure, but the
ballet are an ever-improving lot. “The Firm”
cannot do better than persevere in their determin-
ation to establish a school of theatrical dancing.
The Australian who does not doat on the ballet
has not yet been born.
*m * *
The “ Midsummer Night’s Dream ” con-
tinues to draw to Her Majesty's, Sydney, the
large audiences, especially circle, that prevailed
throughout the run of “Julius Caesar.” The
incidental music is tunefully sung by Julia
Phillips and Tilly Salenger, and the snake-like
contortions and climbing feats of the Trevoe
Brothers are worth going a long way to see.
** * *
At Sydney School of Arts the “Land-
lubber” has been succeeded by “In a Fog,” a
rather smart, if not highly original, farce, in whose
lines we recognise a fine and long-familiar Roman
hand. The piece is staged in a style unique on
the Australian music-hall stage, and Harry
Rickards seems to have seriously attempted to
outdo the boudoir scene at the “Cri.” ’Arry,
among other songs, has revived an old favourite,
“ The Blighted Gardener,” with acceptation, and
sings a new song, “ Shakespeare’s Seven Ages,” a
most creditable literary production, with great
success. We are informed that Romeo Murphy
is much offended at being taken for an anti-Home
Ruler. The mistake arose through Murphy
speaking Italian with a Sicilian accent, whilst our
tongue is tipped with the pure Tuscan.
*0 * *
The Siibon-Stirk combination, admittedly
one of the finest in the world, finished their season
at the Exhibition Building on Wednesday last.
The Girards and the younger Stirks have seceded
and the rest, taking with them Bicyclist Rollinson
and wife, Edith Wilson and others, show for a
week in Newcastle and then proceed to do New
Zealand ere sailing for South America. Dashway,
the marvellous horizontal-bar performer, has now
got over his injury and during the last three nights
in Sydney he brought off his “ double” in fine
style.
** # *
The Cyclorama, where you can now wash
down oceans of blood with cooling squashes and
invigorating teas, is quite well.
** * *
Bondi is a bad place for balloon-ascents.
Sharks and sharp-pointed rocks abound all round,
and the conditions ensuring entire immunity from
these dangers are seldom to be obtained ; so Van
Tassell Price, with a black nor’easter blowing,
was unable to arise on Saturday last. On some
future occasion he has expressed a desire to take
“ up ” some Press representatives, and the names
of several aspirants have been handed in. It is
the only chance of going to heaven that will ever
occur to several of their number. The Midgets,
Herr Reiner’s electric orchestra, Lillian, the girl-
shot, and other novelties have been added, and
Bondi, now managed by Alfred Wyburd, is boom-
ing steadily.
** * *
Melbourne shows wobble where they did
last week. “Cinderella” fills the Royal night
after night, and although dejected audiences
mostly snort at this grand Christmas annual it
continues to exhibit a proud indifference to the
murmurings of a disaffected populace, who will
shortly form themselves into an association for
the purpose of stopping away unless “ Cinderella ”
institutes necessary reforms in her rieketty con-
stitution* The blushing angels of the ballet are
rather gawky and immature of movement, while
the want of a premiere danseusc to stand
alone on one long, thin leg, like a pelican
m the wilderness, is causing much sorrow
and distress among nice, old men who only
come there for the sake of the children. Also
a beautiful and protracted transformation scene,
entitled the “ Amours of Cupid and Psyche,”
scarcely realises all the warmest dreams of an in-
named imagination. There doesn’t appear to be
the least suggestion of an invisible Cupid kissing
his Psyche through the night, and in point of fact
it is difficult to get the hang of the young couple
and their amours at any period of the pantomime,
these mythological subjects are always unsub-
stantial and devoid of human interest. A topical
transformation scene, depicting the Loves of
Parkes and Stella, would lie something to gloat
upon and lay hold of.
** * *
“ Fun on the Bristol ” caugnt the mild
viceregal eye on two occasions last week, owing
to His Excellency’s inability to find out what it
was all about at a first attempt. Consequently
the interior of the Opera House has been lately
remarkable for more brilliant assemblages of shirt-
front and shoulder than usually get there at one
“P* e » not to mention the humble rank-and-file,
who roll up in all weathers without waiting for
l*? e j er gentleman to flop himself in their midst,
ohendan is entitled to every iota of credit for the
present boom. He has improved the Widow
linen with many unobtrusive touches, until the
second-rate fun transacted on the “ Bristol ” com-
pares very feebly with the first-class humour of
the opening scene.
At Melbourne Princess’ a growing senti-
ment of scorn _ for ‘ ‘ Doctor Cupid ” is making
itself felt, so this hollow delusion may explode on
Friday, unless the Governor comes to the rescue,
lor ‘Doctor Cupid ” the triumvirate claim that
it was not written by William Shakespeare, and
is not a work likely to live for all time,” an
advertisement which strikes one as being sordid
rather than sarcastic. “Judge Not ”is getting
to the end of its furious career, and on Saturday
the immortal yarn of “Monte Christo” will be
fixed up in sundry acts at the Alexandra. Mean-
while, Alfred Dampier’s adaptation of “Robbery
U nder Arms ” is getting ready for a huge splash
anon.
*■ * *
“Arabian Nights” has caught on at St,
George’s Hall, notwithstanding that the general
performance can only be recommended as a wel-
come improvement upon variety shows, with their
succession of niggers and girls in pale-blue stock-
ings, all singing “ It’s sweet to wander in the sun-
shine, when the stars are beaming bright,” and
things like that. But the female novices of
Arabian Nights ” are much lovelier than a
number of women one meets, and St. Maur seems
to be all the rest of the comedy worth mentioning.
u- \ s ver y. g°od d* every place except the knees,
which require blistering and bracing up,
* * *
At the London Royalty Theatre a panic
nearly occurred through some fragments of burn-
ing scenery falling upon the stage. The curtain
was lowered, and the orchestra, in its hour of peril,
could think of nothing better than “ God Save the
Queen,” a grand old institution which promised to
produce a mad rush for the doors, until some cool-
headed individuals intervened. Fancy being
squeezed to death to the strains of “God Save the
Queen ! ” By the way, the orchestra should have
struck up “ We Won’t Go Home till Morning.”
** * *
Mr. J ohn Harrison, a London theatrical
costumier, has been 00-respondented to, the tune
of £l5OO. It transpired in evidence that the vile
seducer breathed words of unhallowed love to the
other man’s wife-not in a woodland glade, or
even a hansom cab, but in the sweet seclusion of a
lavatory. The age of romance is indeed dead—as
dead as the Empress Augusta !
* * * Df
Santley is giving four farewell concerts at
Melbourne Town Hall, the Cyclorama is still en-
livened by grand old Jeremiah (who attains to
his 216th birthday shortly), and other shows
flourish more or less—sometimes even less than
that.
** * *
An erudite indifference to music and sweet
sounds was a feature of the great Science Carnival
in Melbourne. The Mayor’s musical evening at
the Town Hall nearly resulted in a general rising
of vocalists and instrumental soloists who found
themselves subjected to barbarous insults at the
hands (and large feet) of the scieneey mob. With-
out giving thought to the savage tucker-struggle
which was bound to ensue, the Mayor ordered re-
freshment tables to be laid along the sides of the
concert-hall, thus placing Mrs. Palmer, Mr. Glad-
stone Wright, &c., in direct competition with such
scientific subjects as ham-sandwiches, jellies, and
free drinks. The concert, it is needless to mention,
never got a look in from first to last. Had the
supply of victuals run out, possibly the Science
Association might have turned its gigantic intel-
lect to the artists and the platform, but, as the
great masses of “scoffed” food were continually
replaced by fresh dray-loads, the wise men and
women whiled away the sultry night in dropping
plates and grabbing for oranges and nuts. High
notes of surpassing sweetness were drowned by
the mighty gurgling of lemonade and claret among
the scientific multitude. A beautiful bassoon solo
was reduced to dumb show by the scrunching of
chicken-bones afar off. Poor David Lee thumped
away at the Town Hall organ in a vain endeavour
to make himself, heard above the din of spoons
scraping up ices. Even the voice of Fitzgibbon,
calling upon Science to cease blowing itself out
for one brief instant, was but a drop in the ocean
of darned tumult for which this Musical Evening
was infamous. Science finally rolled home to bed
with no music in its soul, but a disgusting quantity
of light refreshment in its learned interior. Again,
when the Association received invites to a special
Victorian Orchestra concert, the members signified
their contempt by stopping away. It got wind
among the professors that nobody was standing
creature comforts on this occasion, and they
decided that music was the merest frivolity. So
the mutual contempt existing between one lot of
dusty, long-haired individuals for another lot of
dustier and longer-haired individuals lias been
expressed by the wild shaking of their respective
manes and a general glaring at each other through
spectacles.
** * *
Even Adelina Patti was born too soon.
Now that she is almost as near 50 as 40 the prima
donna can get £lOOO a night, or £7OO for a concert.
Twenty years ago she appeared in opera for £3OO
a night; 15 years ago she sang two songs at the
Alexandra Palace, at the rate of £lOO per song,
and £3O for each encore. By the way, Patti
“ graciously acceded to the vociferous demand for
an encore.” Nilsson, in her prime, was considered
overpaid at £2OO for an opera performance, while
the incomparable Tietiens (who was certainly
obese) leased her voice to Mr. Ohatterton for a
fixed income of £7BOO a year.
** * *
On Boxing Night George Darrell had 1072
people in the Wellington Opera House, probably
the largest assemblage that has ever gathered in
any New Zealand theatre.
At Poverty Point.
Dear BuLtiKTiN,— -From the list of Hamlets who have
appeared on the Australian stage, which was printed in
this column last week, there are several notable omissions.
I can at present call to mind the following, and believe
there are many more : —Wm. Creswick, W. E. Sheridan,
G. D. Chaplin, F. M. Bates, Frank Cates, H. N. Douglas,
Daniel Bandmann, G. W. Collier, &c., &c.—C.H.C.
According to evidence given, the moustachioed supers
employed at the London Lyric receive eighteen pence a
night, and those who shave clean two shillings.
J. H. White, Myra Kemble’s hubby, has gone to Eng-
land, and returns with his wife after a short stay. He
has not been home for 26 years.
Jules Simonsen, son of Martin and Fanny Simonsen,
and brother of Frances Saville, made his debut at the Ex-
hibition Theatre, Geelong, recently as Don Osar de
Bazan.
Rev. Horsley, chaplain, has dramatised the parable of
the Prodigal Son.
The two most uncertain things on earth are a woman
and a balloon. We are tired of paying our little shilling.
Geo. Leitch, now quite recovered from his severe ill-
ness and playing the lead with MacMahon's dramatic
company, passed through Sydney on 10th inst. for Laun-
ceston, where he should open in “ Human Nature” on
the 13th.
Gilbert and Sullivan’s new opera is called “Gondoliers
or the King of Barataria.” The music is rollicking, and
said to be equal to Sullivan’s best, while the topsy-turvey
fun excels anything Gilbert has done since the “Mikado.”
bonvood, who is playing Frank Marsland, in N.Z.,
with Prank Thornton’s Private Secretary crowd, takes
occasion to introduce his “ Bird Song,” a composition of
his own, in which he imitates the nightingale, skylark,
canary, thrush, blackbird &c '
That very fine contralto, Mrs. Vanderveer Greene, an
American lady, leaves Sydney for Melbourne on account
of the comparatively poor public recognition of talent
afforded by the city first named.
Leopold Jordan has a play called “Eig Eag” on the
N.Y. boards.
Speaking at a supper given to him in Liverpool Mr.
J. L. Toole said that once when playing in Edinburgh the
part of the Artful Dodger, in which he wore a pair of
trousers to which there was quite a history attached, he
met a Scotch gentleman to whom, in course of conversa-
tion, he recounted the fact of having a pair of trousers
which had been worn for nearly 40 years. The Scotch-
man ejaculated, “Guid I wha’s your tailor?”
Kyrle Bellew returns to Melbourne after 15 years’
absence. v
Tragedian Miln lias gone lecturing.
Mrs. Richard Anthony Proctor thinks of delivering
her late husband’s lectures and will probably come to
Australia.
“ ’Opkins, Bays I.”
The chaplain taught and preached it constantly ;
For everything they ought—
For broken limbs or sickness—thankful be,
Nor grumble, but the thought
That ’twas no worse to them should comfort be ;
And then they’d at their call
A hospital besides ! Thus thoroughly
Witfthis idea^mid 1 through all their say
Did nurse and patient spread
This leavening text.-A man named Hopkins lay
Upon his dying bed.
A wicked man was he, and, taken worse
One night, the chaplain gave
Strict orders to be wakened to the nurse
Should there be symptoms grave.
To give due consolation to his mind
Before he left this shore.
He wished, but in the morn he rose to find
That Hopkins was no more.
HeJ not been called ; so for the nurse he sent
lo rate him well and chide
For hi* nes-lect and ask him what hn mpant
J mu 18 ne B le °t ana ask mm wnat tie meant,
-the nurse, abashed, replied:
Hi gave im consolation, sir ! ” Perplexed,
The with stern eye
Demanded what he said to him, and, vexed,
Received this prompt reply :
(( j/Y I • jj t_t' • i i r « • , i*i
Opkins,” Hi said, you re going soon to die !
“ Hi know it well,” ’e said.
“ Plains, you’re werry bad, you know,” said Hi;
u : no 7* k now t, esaid.
Opkins, to eaven you cawn t go," Hi said ;
<e ,-A? 1 . 8 P OB6 he replied.
u aye to go to ell, Him fraid ;
((v J l , m 7 aid s , 0 ’ e re P lle d- ... „ .
You bought to be werry thankful, then, said Hi,
As somun did perwide
A place for you to go to when you die !
Hand then Opkins died .
YANKEE.
The Irish Land League has discovered a
new weapon against landlords. In order to
damage Mr. Smith-Barry, the “ Tips.” propose to
build a new town at Limerick Junction on the
estate of Stafford O’Brien. If they succeed, Smith-
Barry will be in the soup.
» ,; „ , . iii
A i e o at A’ at which numerous valuable
prizes will be distributed, takes place on I eh-
Warnambool, Victoria. The sum of
£ldo wiH be given to a first-class sculler s race,
and it is probable that some of the N.S.W. cracks
will be tempted to visit the Hopkins.
The Bulletin will gladly receive and
acknowledge and pay over any subscriptions for-
warded on behalf of the proposed Searle monu-
ment. By the way, it is now stated that the
amount left by Searle to his parents is much less
than was anticipated. If this is really so it would
be better to provide for the old people in their de-
dining years than to spend money with the
marble-masons. The best monument Searle could
have w r ould be a big annual sculling-race named
after him.
T i,, , , ,
London now has an illustrated daily paper,
the Daily Graphic. It is, of course, an offshoot
of the Graphic, which, as everyone knoxvs, is a
Golconda. In tackling daily illustrated journal-
ism, Mr. Thomas and his colleagues have set
themselves a tough task, but they have twenty
years’ experience, a million or two of money, a
couple of thousand artists and correspondents all
over the world, and machinery specially adapted
for the printing of illustrations. The new paper
is like the Graphic. Tory. It will, we hear, be
pictorially represented at Sydney by Mr. Fullwood
and at Melbourne by Mr. G. R. Ashton.
a u ,■ • , • Y .i .
Attention is drawn again to the Annual Con-
gress, or so-called 1 arliainent, in India. It meets
regularly at the New Year, and the session has
just been finished at Bombay, in presence of Mr.
Bradlaugh, M.P., who has succeeded Professor
Fawcett as “Member for India.” The Congress
is of educated Hindoos, demanding representative
institutions. England cannot grant them. Is not
this enough to condemn the whole scheme of
Imperial Federation and Federation ? How can
Australia federate with India? The Mahometans,
by the way, 40 millions of the population, stand
aloof from the Congress. They say it would sub-
stitute Hindoo domination for English. Better
King Log than King Stork.
‘ . , ~
Rolf Boldrewood. tells how, in the old
days, when a filly named Hellcat, the property of
Mr. John Hunter, won on Elemington racecourse
the Sir Charles’s Purse, furnished by a generous
stud patron for the owners of descendants of that
forgotten courser, it was objected by a well-known
horse-couper of the day known as “Hopping
Jack” that she was no true descendant of Sir
Charles. However, the stewards concluded other-
wise and her owner received the stakes. It after-
wards happened that the two Jacks went to sea
in the same ship on a voyage to their native
Scotia. A great storm arose and the ship was
wrecked. As they clung gloomily and despair-
ingly to the uplifted deck, fast on a reef, “Hop-
ping Jack ” approached Hunter with a grave and
resolved air and, in that solemn hour, “the ruling
passion strong in death,” he thus adjured his turf
acquaintance Look here, Mr. Hunter, we shall
be all in in twenty minutes ; it can’t matter
much now. Was Hellcat really a Sir Charles ?”
Whioh recalls the story of Fauntleroy, the fashion-
able banker, who, much to the annoyance of his
guests, kept strictly to himself the source from
which he obtained a certain much-admired liqueur,
On the day before his execution for forgery a
number of men of the world waited upon the
doomed banker in the condemned cell. “Now,
Fauntleroy,” said one of their number, “in four-
teen hours you’ll be at the bar of God. It won’t
hurt you now if you will well and truly answer
ns a question.” “What is it?” asked the miserable
banker, “ Where did you get that curaqoa?”
Dublin City Corporation refuses to invite
the Queen to open the new local Museum. It
justly argues that an invitation would be inter-
preted as a demonstration of approval of the style
in which Ireland is being governed!
Hyndman, the rich patron of Socialism,
appears to have become jealous of the plebeian
John Burns and Thomas Mann, whom he de-
scribes as traitors to the Socialist cause. Tie-
fact is that Hyndman has never been anything
but a notoriety-hunter, living in luxury and
feigning a furious sympathy with Labour, while
the other men are patient organisers and born
leaders of the masses.
G. F. Watts, R.A., ex-husband to Ellen
Terry,-has willed all his paintings which remain
in his own possession to the National Gallery
and to those of various cities. They include a
splendid collection of portraits of celebrities,
besides many fine mystical works. The Mel
bourne Public Gallery has a noble picture by
Watts, called “Love and Death ’’—lofty in con-
ception, although hazy and incorrect in drawing.
Spain simmers. The difficulty there is that
it is. the lower classes, bigoted, under priestly in-
fluences, who are devoted to monarchy. The
middle classes would capsize the monarchy other-
wise with ease, led by men like Castelar, the finest
orator in Europe. The most determined Spanish
Republican is Zorilla, who has to live in England.
Sagasta, the Premier, is at heart a Republican,
who finds that the experiment of a republic, in
past years, was premature.
In the early days of Melbourne, on the
site occupied by the Colonial Bank, at the corner
of Little Collins and Elizabeth streets, stood an
hotel in which Lola Montes took up her quarters
during her stay in the city. George Strike, a
famous dog-fancier, had an order from the notorious
lady for a bull-pup. He personally delivered the
animal, and afterwards declared that Lola was
the handsomest animal he had ever seen on two
legs—making an exception evidently in favour ,of
the dog.
Verbatim copy of a letter written by John
L. Sullivan, the world’s champion pugilist ;
Teddy O’Flaunigan didn’t have no ekal as a noekouter
in New york, instid of which he was took away by deth
and phisitions was in Vane, lie left a dandy daw ter which
vot Measels and her name was Dennis. A Little wile afore
she brothe her last she give birth to a rooster named
Jerry. Then she crossed her white hands onto her brest,
hove in a emetic and threw up the spoudge. But jery
the Kid he was a d
And so on.
MM. Erckinann and Chatrian have shaken
hands and become Erckmann-Chatrian once
more. Their difference has at least brought out a
rather good mot. A yoke-fellow had been im-
posed upon Aurelien Scholl whom, for certain
good reasons, he was obliged, at least for the
moment, to accept. The first morning of their
“collaboration,” Scholl began : “ Well, my dear
fellow, do you feel in trim for writing ? ” “ Never
more so, cher mattre ;lam in great form.” “Sit
down, then, and take your pen—T am going to
dictate. ”
At Mathinna (Tasmania) the chairman at
a lecture ere the close of the proceedings said that
it was generally conceded that Tasmania was a
hundred years behind the times, the other colo-
nies, almost without an exception, advocating an
entire separation from the Imperial connection.
But as it was so generally acknowledged that Tas-
mania was behind the times, he did not suppose
it would be an insult to the audience if they wound
the proceedings up in the usual way by singing
the National Anthem. The chairman was a
native of the Tight Little Island.
A certain perky little lawyer who fre-
quented the old-time Melbourne hostelry of
‘ ‘ J ohn Bull ” Barton used to give more trouble
over his shilling’sworth of lunch than all the other
Chancery-lane people together, and after com-
plaining one day to Barton of a waiter’s incivility,
he wound up by saying he “wouldn’t come there
any more.” “ You won’t!” roared the old boy, in
well-si undated rage— ‘ ‘ Vou won't! Do you know
what I'll do, sir?” “No —no no—what will you
do ?” enquired the lawyer. “ Til get someone else
who will,” said Barton, with a broad and irritat-
ing grin.
Caffyn, the cricketer who came out with
the first English eleven in 1861, remained in Syd-
ney and started in his business, that of a wig-
maker and hairdresser, in George-street. A certain
barrister, whose elevation to the District Court
Bench caused considerable surprise at the time,
waited on Caffyn with an order for the judicial
wig. In taking the dimensions the cricketing wig-
maker remarked on the length of the gentleman’s
head. “Yes, we lawyers must have long heads.”
The wig-maker proceeded with his measurement
and at length said, “Why, sir, your head is as
thick as it is long.” History says that the learned
judge did not patronise Caffyn after this lapsus.
Our old friend, Ernest Norton Rolfe, alias
Ross or Rossiter Raymond, has this time got ten
years’ gaol. Some years ago he gave Sydney a
turn, and while in that city wrote an article or
two for The Bulletin and a description of the
Molokai leper-settlement for the Evening News,
which article was, to our mind, the only readable
original piece of literature we have seen in the
Evening News for ten years. The genesis of Ross
Raymond is lost in the shades of gaols. When we
knew him he was a young, ham-fat man who could
talk sweetly enough to coax a native bear down
a tree ; like all literary fat men he was capable of
an enormous amount of work, but he never did any
to speak of, and when he wrote he did so, as a rule,
without any clothes on. He was the finest liar we
have ever encountered—save and except one dis-
tinguished gentlemen now in Melbourne or there-
abouts whom we will not here more exactly specify
for legal reasons. Raymond wormed himself into
almost every club wherever he went, and borrowed
money in large quantities from everybody he met.
At one time he turned up in Paris as the accredited
favourite and avant-courier of the Khedive—and
then incontinently scooted after living free for
weeks in a palace filled with the perfumes of
Arabia and surrounded by servants in Turkish
costume who practised Eastern obeisances at
his order. When he went to England he
successfully impersonated Mr. Austen Chamber-
lain in one place ; then Mr. James Greenwood;
then Bennett Burleigh, the war-correspondent;
then the captain of Brassey’s yacht; then Melton
Prior (which was dangerous, as Prior is a bald-
headed little horror aoout as big as a pug-dog),
and in every place and on every occasion he traded
off forged bills or cheques. 'Mr. Raymond, as
already stated, will stay in gaol in England for 10
years, which is quite a different thing from 10
years’ gaol in Australia, considering that during
the last few months we have, in our walks abroad,
bumped up right against a large assortment of
well-connected persons who have been publicly
sentenced to long terms of imprisonment and then
been privately released for reasons best known tt
the members of their district.


Artificial Teeth (high-class dentistry) at Reform
Fees. Full Set Vulcanite, £5; Gold and Vulca-
nite, £10; Gold, £l5. Nitrous Oxide Gas daily,
10s. 6d. J. I. Marshall, Dentist. Only iiddress
410 George-street, Sydney.
WOLFE’S SCHNAPPS!
f>o on your guard for Frauds when purchasing.
The Bush Missionary’s Temptation.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
Chapter I.
If there is one thing more than another that I
pride myself on, and I may say without vanity
that I think I have one or two rather good points,
it is, that I have, up to now, always succeeded m
being most thoroughly Respectable. I would never
dream of wearing anything hut a black coat on
Sunday, or of eating a hot dinner on that day, or
of looking at a newspaper. Therefore when I was
informed that I was about to be transferred to
Yarravilla as teller of the local bank, I felt a little
doubt as to the future.
I should have preferred remaining in Sydney,
for although there were many godless and wicked
young men in the bank I was able to avoid their
company, whereas in a small branch like V arra-
villa I should be, to a certain extent, forced into
the society of the manager, who, probably, was
not a Christian. However, there was no help for
it. and the time arrived for me to start.
T travelled to my destination, partly by rail and
partly by Cobb’s coach, and despite-the profanity
of the driver during the latter part of the journey,
we arrived in safety. I was met by the manager
of the branch, who welcomed me courteously, and
had engaged a bedroom for me at the only re-
spectable hotel in the place. The teller I was
relieving informed me before he left that I would
find it “ the dullest place ever created,” and that
if not shifted in six months 1 should probably cut
my throat or go off with the till. He added,
“ Melhuish —the manager—is a real good sort, but
don’t get heaving any piety into him for he won t
stand it.” Evidently he was a fast youth and a
careless one, and I laid little stress on his words.
1 found it certainly was dull. In the bank we
had little to do, Melhuish’s principal business
consisted in refusing to grant overdrafts, and the
only important accounts we had on our books
were those of the different stations round about.
1 arranged to take a class at the Sunday-school,
joined the choir, and became a member of the
Christian Association, which met twice a week
(there were two members besides myself), and I
anticipated passing the time peacefully if not
pleasantly.
Socially, Melhuish was not a bad fellow,
morally, he was an abandoned sinner. He passed
most of his time sitting with his feet on the
managerial table smoking cigarettes and reading
works of doubtful philosophy, including The
Bulletin —works I had been taught to look upon
as accursed. He had a strange liking for children,
and, much to my disgust, used to encourage a lot
of brats about "the bank and set them running
races for shillings and lollies. I don’t like
children myself, excepting as the material for a
Sunday-school class, when you can lecture them
well before the young ladies.
Our society at Yarravilla was not large, but it
was at least select. It consisted solely of the wife
of the P.M., and the wife of the post-and-tele-
graph master. Both these ladies were kind
enough to take much notice of me, and inform me
that I was an improvement on my predecessor.
Melhuish was not a favourite with the ladies. At
least they told me in confidence that they thought
he was not sufficiently steady, and, as they both
said, “steadiness is invaluable in the present day,”
though why more so now than at any other
time they did not explain. However, I felt
glad that I was considered steady, as Mrs.
Johnson (the P.M.’s wife) expected her
daughter and Miss Simpson, her husband’s niece,
to spend Christmas, and as both young ladies
were young and probably interesting, I felt very
glad I was steady. In due time the day for the
arrival of the fair couple dawned, and naturally
enough I was curious as to their appearance. The
young ladies had been school-mates and were about
the same age, verging on eighteen.
I sauntered down to the coach-office when the
coach was due and found Melhuish there talking
to Johnson and Simpson, in readiness to receive
their .respective charges. We had not long to
wait; tlie coach soon came in sight, and plainly
visible on the box-seat —which had been gallantly
ceded in their honour —were the expected ones.
The driver pulled up with an extra flourish, nearly
knocking me down and quite destroying the some-
what striking attitude I had assumed for the
occasion. By the time I had got out of the way
of the leaders Melhuish had assisted the young
ladies to earth, and they had exchanged greetings
with their respective guardians. Melhuish and I
were introduced, and we were all about to start
homeward when Miss Johnson made some remark
about their luggage. Not to appear backward I
offered to see to it, and by the time I had got it
found myself alone with the coachman. That
worthy confided to me that he had not sworn at
his horses once, as he had the young ladies on
hoard—and would I join him in drinking their
healths as they were “ a pair of puffick plums.”
Disgusted 1 hastened after the others, but only
met Melhuish, returning alone, so there was
nothing for it but to turn back. He said that he
had promised to go and spend the evening at the
post-office, and as I had a general invitation from
Mrs. Simpson 1 determined to go too and improve
my acquaintanceship with the young ladies.
I was surprised and annoyed. After all I bad
been told about Melhuish’s want of steadiness 1
found him established as first favourite, and I was
entertained all night by old Simpson, who insisted
on reading to me all the prosy letters that had passed
between the Government and himself about a
long-standing complaint he had against them. All
the time, from the other end of the room, came
bursts of merry laughter.
Miss Johnson, who was also there, was a
brunette, petite, with bright eyes and a ready
smile, a neat rounded figure, trim hands and feet.
Miss Hamerford, Mr. Simpson’s niece, was taller,
fairer and better-looking, but without her friend’s
vivacity. Somehow I felt I should like her best —
I don’t like people who are too lively.
Chapter IT.
Melhuish slept at the bank, but when we left
he walked with me as far as the hotel where I
lodged. On arrival we found a stranger in the
.coffee-room w r ho, after eyeing Melhuish for some
time, came up and introduced himself as the Rev.
.Thomas Micklemass, bush-missionary and travel-
ling evangelist. Melhuish looked at his extended
hand without offering to take it. “Oh !”he said,
“ you’ve made a mistake, that is the religious
man. Let me introduce you—Mr. Fielding, Mr.
— e
Mick-something,” and with this rude speech h
left the room.
I was excessively hurt, and so I could see was
the good missionary, who hastily picked up a
glass that was on the table and drank the contents
to hide his confusion. I sat down with the worthy
man and we had a long and interesting conversa-
tion. He told me a good deal about his travels
and the difficulties he had to contend against in
borrowing horses and otherwise obtaining assis-
tance from the squatters of the district, who
seemed indeed a hard-hearted and unchristian lot,
not at all interested as they should have been in
the good man’s mission.
It was later than my usual hour when I retired,
and I had promised to subscribe towards publish-
ing his collection of hymns and to do my best to
persuade others to do so. I don’t know how long
I had been asleep when I was awakened by a body
tumbling heavily on my bed. 1 started up m
alarm. Whoever it was had mistaken his room
and was endeavouring to get into my bed with ms
clothes and boots on. All my efforts to arouse the
stranger to a sense of his error resulted in a series
of inarticulate grunts, and at last 1 had to get up
and strike a light. To my intense astonishment it
was my new acquaintance, the bush-missionary.
After much shaking he gasped, sat up anil blinked
at the light. The poor man was evidently tired
out with his journey and terribly sleepy. “Get
up and come to your room,” I said, i'll see you
there; what’s the number?”
He nodded and replied: “The number of the
elect, young man, is seven hundred and ninety-
seven and you ain’t among ’em,” and he made
another attempt to lie down on my bed. I took
his arm and he got up, but, much to my astonish-
ment, burst out crying.. I felt f° r 1 11 S weak
hysterical state, but got him to walk towards the
door ; there he stopped and shook his head sadly.
“There’s a strong shmell of spirits about this
room,” he remarked, and then I noticed that there
really was. “ Never mind now,” I urged, come
to bed ”
fa* c,u - r,r) S his So i/
6'l evils C?| S ourfo.fr
9«tfiio«j a|a )a.He m ft)e morning) Y 0 } 1
M/tl' do or\y qood-.'un/QSS you, lar-n
a leaf- /ha.l' ihe ea.'ttyhrct
y caches '/lu worm." o
Vf far hovr *lour iMyron**.
he nd'hen a- 5 a, ‘
W Mys°* jk*/-*orjvU»'r
/T &!'cell,
A/<? w"as on h* $ viAy
hom* . i
“Ah! but drunkennessh is a vice I must put
down,” he replied, as he went along the passage
“and it’s one I’m afraid you’re guilty of.”
I tried the first door I came to. The room had
an empty bed in it, so I left my new friend there
and went back to sleep.
He had told me in the course of our conversa-
tion that he was subject to strange nervous fits at
times, and this I supposed was the cause of his
strange behaviour.
Next morning he remembered nothing about it,
and called up at the bank in the course of the
morning and had a long conversation with me
about the desirableness of holding an open-air ser-
vice that evening and the chance of a collection
afterwards in aid of his fund.
When he left, Melhuish called me into his room
,and said ;
“ I’ve nothing to do with your choice of friends,
Fielding, but as you’re a stranger in a country
branch, and not up to the kind of people you
meet, let me tell you for your guidance that the
man is a drunken old loafer, and if I mistake not
has been in gaol before now. He has no more
right to pretend to be a preacher than he has to
pretend to be the Chief Justice. Don’t allow
yourself to be seen countenancing him, take my
straight tip in the matter.”
1 was deeply offended at being spoken to like
this, and I at'once ascribed Melhuish’s conduct to
his atheistical tendencies, and replied that _ 1
certainly should not consult him as to my choice
of associates, that he was my superior officer in
the bank, but outside that 1 declined to be con-
trolled by him.”
“ Please yourself, my dear fellow,” he said care-
lessly—“ I’ve warned you for your own sake, and
you have only to ask any of the old hands here
about your friend. As you have kindly allowed
that I am your superior officer in the bank, please
tell him to keep away from it.” Here he put his
legs up on the table and lit another cigarette, and
I left feeling very much hurt.
That evening I spent at the Johnsons , and was
more successful in improving my acquaintance
with the two girls. There was no doubt Miss
Hamerford was an extremely nice girl. Melhuish,
I could see, appeared more taken with her friend,
at which I felt a sense of relief.
When I got home Mr. Micklemass insisted on
entertaining me with his conversation for neaily
two hours, and although I would have preferred
to go to bed and dream of Sophy Hamer ton, after
Melhuish’s remarks I could not hurt the good
man’s feelings by appearing to tire of his conver-
sation. He told me that neither his open-air ser-
vice nor the collection had been the success he
expected, and, I thought, seemed to consider that
I had not done as much in the matter as I might
have done. I felt a little guilty, and when he
asked me for my subscription towards the collec-
tion, and the loan of a few shillings, I could not
refuse, and he went to bed in much better spirits,
and spoke more hopefully of the future.
The next day was Christmas Eve, and I awoke
anticipating a pleasant time, for there was
to be a small gathering at the Johnsons’, and
Miss Hamerton would be there. The day was
kept as a holiday, and Melhuish was going out
early in the morning to spend the day at one of
the neighbouring stations, returning with a con-
tingent for Mrs. Johnson’s dance. Christmas
Hay and Boxmg Day were, of course, Holidays as
well, and the arrival of the girls from Sydney
having awakened the hospitality of the district
much gaiety was talked of. I got out of bed and
dressed, feeling more light-hearted than I could
remember for some time. I even felt that I could
pray for Melhuish, and determined to give Mr.
Micklemass a wide berth.
Chapter TIT.
It was about noon. I had been spending a
quiet morning in the bank, reading, and I was
strolling back to the hotel when I suddenly came
face to face with the evangelist, apparently very
ill. He took my arm and begged me earnestly to
help him. In broken accents he told me that one
of his old attacks had come on—would I assist him
up the street ? I could not refuse and turned back
with him, but, with some misgivings, for he looked
rather dishevelled and untidy. He hung on
tightly to my arm and several times dragged me
across the footway. In fact, I anxiously enquired
of him how far he was going, for I did not feel
like caring for too much of his companionship.
He informed mo, half-crying, that he had been
told to leave the hotel where I was staying because
he insisted on reproving them for their godless
ways. He was going to the hotel at the other end
of the township, and would I mind seeing him
there, he felt so ill ? How could I refuse ? I felt,
after what Melhuish had said, that I should be
shamefully weak, and I wont on with him feeling
more ashamed than ever, for he was so palpably
reeling about, and being a heavier man than
myself kept dragging me with him. Just then
we met Bill, the ooacn-driver. Bill had evidently
been keeping Christmas—his first words proved it.
“XTllo! here’s a go! Why, Mr. Fielding, I
never thought to see you so bad. Hold up. old
man. Right we are ! VH see you through.” And
he gripped me by the other arm, and as Mickle-
mass lurched against me at the same time I nearly
lost my balance.
“ Come on, old boy!” shouted Bill, “I’ll see
you through, for we’re all jolly good fellowsh,” and
he began to sing uproariously.
By a desperate wrench I got away from him.
“ Bill,” I said, “go away like a good fellow, I’m
just taking the old man home, he’s very sick.”
“ Ha ! ha ! ” cried Bill, “ we’ve all got the same
complaint, but I’ll not hinder you,” and he gave
me a staggering slap on the back, and at the self-
same moment I saw Mrs. Johnson and her daugh-
ter quickly cross the street as though to avoid us.
Horror ! what was I to do?
Bill reeled off and I kept defiantly on with the
missionary on my arm, when it flashed across me
that I must pass the Post Office, and well I knew
the habit of Mrs. Simpson of watching everything
that went on in the main street. An idea of
escape occurred to me, and 1 quickly carried it in-
to execution. Our return journey had brought ns
close to the bank I had lately left. It being a
holiday I could let myself in and out the back way
through the absent Melhnish’s bedroom ; 1 would
take Micklemass in there, he was sure to sleep for
an hour or two, meanwhile I would make a point
of seeing both the ladies, so that I could assure
them by my conduct of my sobriety, and explain
matters.
No sooner sakl than done. Once in the back
yard I was free from observation, and soon was in
Melhuish’s bedroom. “ He’ll know nothing about
it,” I thought as I saw the missionary surge down
on his bed and commenced to snore heavily. 1
quickly changed my coat for a black one I had in
the bank as more dignified, brushed myself up a
little and hastened out to restore what I dimly
felt was a damaged reputation. Luck befriended
me. I met Mrs. Johnson and her daughter, and,
as I thought, disabused them of any notion they
could have of my willingly walking arm-in-arm
down the street with Bill, on a spree. I saw Mrs.
Simpson and exchanged a few words witli her,
then with a lightened heart went on to the hotel,
had my dinner, and started back to release my
prisoner. I found him still lying on Melhuish’s
bed, breathing quite as heavily. Apparently he
had not stirred since I left him.
I sat down for a moment to think, deeply and
bitterly chagrined. I could no longer disguise the
fact to myself, try as I would, that Melhuish was
right and that I had come to grief to a certain
extent. The missionary was a common drunkard,
and I had countenanced him. However, I had
now to get rid of him and I proceeded to wake
him up, an attempt in which I was not successful
for some time, and even then I could not induce
him to move from the place. At last I got him
started, having had to bribe him with the loan of
five shillings to procure what he called “some
medicine ”on the way. I had carefully seen that
the street was empty when I let him out, and re-
turned to put Melhuish’s room straight, feeling
more horribly guilty than ever I had felt in all my
life before
A dreary afternoon passed and I prepared for
the evening festivities with less heart than I oonld
have thought possible. Melhuish and some of the
station men returned in good time and after sur-
mounting the nervousness incidental to my day’s
experience I began to enjoy myself, although an
occasional roguish look that I detected when I
caught Miss Johnson’s eye nearly upset me at
times. All things considered I enjoyed my
Christmas eve much more than, at one period of
the day, I could have thought possible.
About ten o’clock the next morning Melhuish
turned up at the hotel to see me. “ I just want
you to come down to the bank and cash this
cheque forme, out of your cash,” he said. “ I
suppose you’ll have time before church claims
you ? ”
I at once went down with him. Like most
country branches we had two safes—a large one,
“ the treasury,” with a difficult combination
which could not be opened except by both of us
together, and a smaller one for the teller’s cash,
which either of us could open with our duplicate
keys.
When I got to the bank I went to my safe and
took my keys from my pocket. In an instant I
saw that they were not the bank keys but strange
ones, somewhat resembling them in shape. I
frantically searched every pocket but without
avail. I was a methodical man and always kept
my keys in the one pocket.
“ Melhuish ! ” I cried desperately, “ I have lost
my keys or they have been stolen, changed ! ”
He surveyed me in his usual cool manner, took
his duplicates from his pocket and opened the
safe, A clean sweep had been made of somewhere
ibout three hundred pounds.
Melhuish looked at me intently, and I felt cold
and sick all over.
Chapter IV.
“Come into the other room and sit down for a
bit,” said my manager. After a pause he spoke.
“ This is a bad tiling for both of us and I see
only one way out of it, and that is that you tell
me everything that passed yesterday during my
absence. Make no reservation whatever, for your
future reputation is hanging on it —and mine, too,
possibly. ”
I managed to steady my nerves and told him
everything without reserve.
“ It rests with Bill or the missionary which of
them picked your pocket of the keys when yon
were arm-in-arm in the street ?”
“ Neither,” I said, as the whole truth flashed on
me; “it was done when I was away at dinner.”
“How could it be done if you had your keys
with you ?”
“But I hadn’t,”! groaned; “I changed my
coat when I went away and forgot to take the
khys out. ”
“And Micklemass was locked up here in the
bank for how long ?”
“Nearly three hours.”
“ Shamming drunk or at least partly shamming
and watching you all the time. He’s the man, of
course, and vve must catch him at once—l think
we shall, for he’ll imagine we won’t open the safe
until the holidays are over.”
“Melhuish took two or three turns up and down
the room brooding deeply. “Come; you must
work,” he said at last. “If possible we must have
that money without the help of the police. If it
comes to that I’m afraid you will pay dearly for
your carelessness. Supposing you go down to
the pub. and see if your friend is there. Pluck
up a little and don’t give him any suspicion. Ask
him if he’s comfortable and so on.”
I took rny hat and went down to the Red Dog.
as the second public-house was called, and, much
to my relief, found tha t Micklemass was still there.
He was asleep in his room aVid I woke him with
some difficulty, and made a few commonplace
enquiries after his comfort; then left him and
returned to Melhuish for instructions, and in
accordance with what I was told to do returned.
Micklemass was a little brighter, and I told him
that I had come down to ask him to take dinner
with me. After some demur ho consented and
we started back together. As we passed the bank
I said, “ By the way, I have to go in here for a
minute. I won’t keep you long. Come in.”
He followed me in quite unsuspectingly by the
hack-way. and, the moment ho was inside Melhuish
stepped forward ami locked the door behind us.
There was very little trouble. His nerves were


Scf-tcfw jyu!6cvv-«v UaiiUx
cmu*)
ocelli.
ť
OXao Uit
Ca&uaxnZ
llcfit jcvxteA
F. B, WHEELER k CO.,
(laivii«-<> Street, SYONEV.
Bona-Fide announcement. Highest cash price
given for all kinds of gent’s left off clothing.
Dress-suits for sale or hire. Letters promptly
attended to by QTTJTTENTON BROS., 11l
Russell street, MELBOURNE. (New number.
Mi.)
ŧ
Watch Manufacturer, & Jeweller,
813 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
(Nearly opposite Railway Station).
For Watches and Jewellery, rend for my Prior List
( Illustrated). Fast Fred.
orjo Tinii Unrivalled Keyless Watch. „„
Guaranteed. Post Free.- 203.
Ornt.’s English Lrvkrs (full cap) from £3 10s.
Ladies’ Beautiful Silver, Watches from ill 10s.
Gold Watches and Jewellery of every description.
Country Residents and V isitors to Sydney call or send
to A. SAUNDERS, 813 George Street (nearly opposite
Railway Station), SYDNEY.
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
Everybody should use Pemell’s latest best Snow-wtiitb
Patent Roller Flour. It is the greatest success of the
age.
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
The name of Mr. District Court Judge
Murray, who has left the N.S.W. Northern Cir-
cuit on promotion to the Southern Circuit of the
District Court, is always mentioned with great re-
spect in his late district, which once knew Mey-
mott as a judge. Judge Murray is a great travel-
ler, a good walker, and a plucky horseman. The
late Mr. Dailey used to say when he expected a
visit from Murray, “Oh, here comes that
metaphysician ! ” and a brother judge once told
him, slapping him on the back, “ Murray, you will
never be any good until you drink whisky.” The
judge is still almost a total abstainer, and as
shrewd as most Scotchmen. It is men of the
Murray and Backhouse stamp who will ascend the
Supreme Court Bench when Young Australia gets
his way.
£3«r»'
H V
•WING G-OKI j
• Celebs
RATED
ffc
mm,
W;
to
9
&
I
SV
-n
sa s\s>
tor?*
5*
'<7J«7,kf,
too shaken for him to resist at all. We got back
all the money but some three pounds. It appears
that he had been engaged in a store where there
was a safe of the same pattern and he had changed
my keys. It was easy enough. The large safe, of
course, he could do nothing with.
“Now,” said Melhuish, after it was, all oyer
and the wretched thief had departed, “ don’t you
think that your intense love of Respectability has
received a very bad shock ? On the whole I think
you had better exchange into another branch, for
this march of yours down the street with Bill on
one side and the missionary on the other is, I am
afraid, all over the town. You’ve had a lucky
escape, and so, for that matter, have I, As it is,
we have both compounded a felony to save our
billets, so I need not say keep a quiet tongue in
your head about this adventure.”
I took his advice this time and exchanged under
the plea of ill-health; but with the kind permis-
sion of Mrs. Simpson I correspond with Miss
Hamerford, and from her I learn that’Melhuish
and Miss Johnson are engaged. For myself, I
am not now so much in love with outward respect-
ability as I was at that fatal Christmas time.
Personal Items.
Victoria is sending potatoes to England.
Poor Ireland grows nothing now.
The Czar means to marry his heir to
Princess Helene, of Montenegro.
The statue of John Duninore Lang is to
be shipped from London by the end of the year.
Otto of Bavaria is so dreadfully dirty a
man that they derisively call him “ Otto of Roses.”
()n the vault of an old naval officer in the
C. of E. Cemetery, at Parramatta, is the legend :
“ Ho never told a falsehood.” ■
Benzon, the Jubilee Plunger, was piously
brought up under I)r. Brown, the eminent dis-
ciplinarian of the Charterhouse.
A N.S.W. gentleman named Haynes,
writing to the papers, says he has no desire for
notoriety. And his name is Haynes !
Sir Alfred Stephen is probably the oldest
living member of the English Bar, having been
“called ” 67 years ago, when Queen Victoria was
only 4 years old.
The wives of two N.S.W. Governors are
buried in the Church of England Cemetery at
Parramatta—Lady Elizabeth Janet Bonrke and
Lady Mary Fitzroy.
Eight clover-leaves made of diamonds are
ranged round the crown of the German Emperor
emblematical, we suppose, of the fact that be and
his kind live in clover.
Editor Davis, of the Sydney Quarterly
Magazine, is hereby informed that a sonnet
doeen t consist of 16 lines; also that it doesn't
rhyme every alternate line.
Mrs. Maybrick’s line house near the
Mersey has been rented by the foreman of the jury
who found that interesting prisoner guilty of the
wilful murder of her husband.
Premier Crispi is said to be looking for an
English wife for the Prince of Naples, who
approaches his twenty-first year. He is not a
beauty, but is intelligent and highly educated.
Fred. Bayne, an old-time Melbourne
solicitor, who was fonder of his “club ” than his
office, had a standing notice on his door : “ Back
at 10 to I.’ A wag once wrote underneath :“ 10
to 1 you won’t. ”
Horace Baker, late, chief-engraver to the
Picturesque Atlas ov Australasia, is now in
New York where he occasionally throws the
boomerang, to the great astonishment and peril of
the American nation.
The ill-mannered, bad-tempered “Prince
Beatrice ” has at length found courage to assert
his independence, finding that much will be sub-
mitted to in order to avoid the scandal entailed by
a matrimonial squabble.
Bishop Moore (R.C.), of Ballarat, who will
assist at the ceremonies in St. Mary’s Cathedral,
Sydney, at the end of this month, is the tallest
R.C. prelate in Australia. In politics he is an
Imperialist of the Rosebery type.
Mr. Joseph R. Cox, M.P. for County
Clare, who has come to Australia to help Patrick
Deasy, sent word ahead to make it known that he
m| ls s * s Tnes gaoled for aggressive language,
Ihus does the gaol-brand outshine the Victoria
Cross.
Dan Mayne, of the Bathurst (N.S.W.)
Sentinel (an ex-publican), hopes he may live to
see the day when it will be a “lagging” matter
to manufacture intoxicating drinks. This para-
graph, we presume, was written rather early in
the morning.
A Melbourne daily speaks of Baron Von
Mueller as “Mister” Mueller in reporting the
Science Congress. This is very low down on the
poor Baron, whose orders would more than cover
his breast, and have to be hung down bis trouser-
legs. like those of Tummy.
Melbourne Herald lately had a pathetic
par. to the effect that “poor old Zerbini,” the
violinist, had died on his way to Europe. The
next day poor old Zerbini turned up smiling to
say that he wasn’t dead yet, and offered to buy a
drink for the writer of the par.
Dom Pedro, the ex-Emperor of Brazil,
used to sell titles and spend the proceeds in main-
taining lunatic-asylums. Are you listening,
Parkes, G.C.M.G. ? By the way, the titles that
caused the asylums were doubtless, in many cases,
the generators of their occupants.
Dom Pedro is among the sons of Anak.
He stands 6 ft. 4 in. He is highly educated—
speaking fluently English, French, German and
Italian. When reigning he despised pomp and
ceremony. This probably led to familiarity, and
then his subjects kicked him out.
R has, says the World, been finally
settled by the Royal family that the Duke of
Edinburgh shall not go to sea again officially,
“ except in case of war.” As Alfred has prob-
ably decided that war-time is the very worst time
to go, he probably means to go for a “ shore-
billet.”
Chief Justice Higinbotham was much
moved at the burial of Kerferd. The two Georges
sat on opposite sides of the House during the
“tack ” debates, when Hig., as Attorney-General,
declared he would “ never bury the hatchet,
Never!” Both Kerferd and the hatchet are
buried now.
Judge MacFatland, who has been trans-
ferred to the Sydney metropolitan district, was a
judge of the principal civil and criminal courts in
Western Australia, and for ten years prior to his
appointment to W.A. had a big practice in the
superior courts in Dublin. He was called to the
Bar in 1847.
At the first Melbourne land-sale Mr.
Hoddle, who acted as auctioneer, generously ac-
cepted two allotments, in lieu of £57, as his com-
mission. Within Hoddle’s lifetime the two allot-
ments \yere_ worth a quarter of a million sterling,
and thus his heir, Hoddle White, of Sydney, is
now enabled to rush round in steam-yachts.
Brisbane Evening Observer says that on
Fronde's way out to Australia he objected to the
reading on Sundays of the collects tor the royal
family and the bishops and clergy, and marked
them out of the ship’s prayer-books with pencil-
strokes. No doubt the author of the “Nemesis
of Faith ” has occasional lapses into Radicalism.
William 11., of Germany, is determined
to resent any insinuation to the effect that he is
not a first-class emperor. For he lias caused the
editor of the Potsdameu Zeitung to be tried on a
charge of lese-majesty, for the publication of a
paragraph in which it was stated that the Kaiser
had recently been seen driving in a second-class
cab.
Viscount Hinton-—who travels around
London grinding a barrel-organ until his peerage
(the earldom of Polilett) falls due-is alleged to
have made a gallant joke. His wife plays a cor-
net while her husband wrestles with the organ-
handle, and the Viscount once declared th t his
partner in greatness was “the fairest flower that
blows. ”
John Martin, who “did” some years in
Tasmania with Smith O'Brien, was on his return
from exile elected to the Commons for Meath.
As is usual, the editor of Debrett’s “ House of
Commons ” wrote asking John for his history and
armorial bearings. Mr. Martin, knowing the
law, replied, “ 1 carry no arms, this is a proclaimed
district. ”
Mr. Sydney Burdckin, of Sydney, who
intends to hold up the mayoral end of the table
during his term of office, should hearken to Lord
Mayor Whitehead, of London. That headpiece
of civic conviviality acknowledges to having eaten
250 public, dinners during his reign, but explains
that “ eating ” as practised by him was only the
appearance of eating.
The late Doctor McDonagh, of Sydney,
used to relate how a patient and coin patriot of his,
on being “given over,” became, naturally enough,
v«y nervous. The doctor tried to soothe him by
saying, “Well, M‘Ginnis, we must all die once,
ye know.” “Faith, doctor, that’s exactly what
thronbles me. If I could die foive or six times I
wouldn’t mind this wanst.”
Much surprise is expressed at the accep-
tance by Mr. Rogers, Q.C.. of the Chairmanship of
the N.S.W. Land Court. The salary is only £2OOO
a year, and the Q.C. was looked upon as being
fairly entitled to the next vacancy on the Supreme
Court Bench. Mr. Rogers is one of the ablest
men at the Bar, and land suitors may rest secure
in the belief that they will get from him even-
handed justice.
The Emperor of Russia is in an indescrib-
able state of panic. He is in constant dread of
assassination, and this state of ever-present fear,
added to the hereditary melancholy of the Roman-
off family, has so utterly shattered his nerves
that for days together he is practically not re-
sponsible for his actions. He smokes incessantly,
and not only endeavours to sustain his spirits by
copious libations of champagne arid brandy, but
of late he has taken to drugging himself with
chloral.
The Spectre in the Wardrobe.
All night long Marescot had tossed and turned,
unable to close his eyes. The image of his be-
trothed would not leave him; her name, Vir-
ginia, haunted him, like a strain of music that
keeps running through the head. He was think-
ing, his head buried in the pillow: “It is to-
morrow. To-morrow the church, the ceremony,
the wedding-breakfast.” And he wished that he
might awaken older by 24 hours, married, all the
ceremonies over, alone with his little wife. Ah !
how happy they would be! At flrst, at least.
And why not always ? He had known of happy
marriages. His own had been such a one. And
he arranged plans for the future, while awaiting
the dawn. When it appeared, rose-coloured,
through the chinks in the blinds, he sprang out of
bed and opened wide his window to the morning
of this spring day that was to be famous in his
existence.
“Wednesday, May 12th.” Only three words,
yet how much was contained in them ! How
they brightened his spirits and warmed his heart !
“Wednesday, May 12th:” That day belonged
to him, seemed to shine, smile, perfume the air
expressly for him—a surprise that nature had
reserved for his marriage. He drew a long breath
of the velvety air that came up over the garden
and rested his elbowjon the railing of the balcony.
Faint sounds disturbed the silence and quiet of
the morning the chirp of wakening birds, the
palpitations of invisible wings, rustling of leaves,
blades of grass stirred, one could not tell how, the
tear of a rose that dropped a petal. To the left,
beyond a mouldering wall covered with clustering
lilacs, stretched a park.
Marescot left the; window and turned his atten-
tion toward dress ng himself. His watch indi-
cated the hour of six. He had time enough and
to spare. After having bathed and dressed, he
began a tour of the rooms, inspecting each one
with the satisfaction of a man of taste who finds
nothing to alter.
Everything was ready for her reception. In
Ihe drawing room white-and-gold the vases
were filled to overflowing with fragrant flowers,
the silken curtains, half drawn, tempered the
light, the piano waited her white hands. What
cosy break asts, what long tSte-<)-tete dinners, they
would enjoy in the oak-paneled dining-room >
HEARD IN “COORT.”
Y OUNG LAWYER (defending cattle-stealing case—his
first brief): “Were there not a lot of trees between
your house and where the bullock was killed?”
WITNESS: “There wuz.”
YOUNG LAWYER: “Was there not a lot of young scrub
growing up between those trees so that it was im-
possible to see this bullock killed from the front of
your house?”
WITNESS: “Ah, Faith, there’s a power of young scrub
growing up in this country that’s precious aisy to
see through!”
With what care he would wait on her. F very
tim'e he went out, in winter, he would bring home
delicacies for her, the first of the season, and he
pictured to himself his return home in the even-
ing) a little late, laden with little pink-stringed
parcels that would rouse her curiosity and cause
her to spring up joyously, clapping her hands and
crying “ Oh ! what is it ? vv hat is it ? ”
The bedchamber ! It was all in bright blue,
like her eyes, with flowers on the mantel, flowers
on the table, flowers before’the window, flowers in
the corners, flowers everywhere, even on the bed.
He tin ■ew a long look around the room, then softly
withdrew. From door to door he went, from the
library to the billiard-room, from the billiard-
room to a little conservatory, from the conserva-
tory to the guest-chamber. And, concluding his
inspection, he entered a large room used as a store-
room, where were piled up pell-mell old pieces of
furniture, old iron, rubbish of all sorts, a globe,
trunks, watering-pots, old oval-framed portraits, a
magic lantern.
He was leaving the room when, suddenly, his
eyes falling on an old wardrobe, he trembled. It
was of black walnut, very large, very high, having
the key in the lock. It occupied a corner of the
room, near the window. And, in an instant, re-
collections of his first wife filled his heart, suffo-
cating him, forcing him to lean against the wall to
save himself from falling. , He had, indeed, been a ‘
widower for fourteen years. A romance which
had ended like a tragedy. Katherine ... it
all seemed so long ago! He, orphaned, deeply
enamoured, had wedded her when he left college,
hue, consumptive, had died six years after. He
had suffered much. Then the days, the years had
passed and he no longer thought of the dead. Thus
he had reached his fortieth year, without ever hav-
ing noticed its approach, and had decided to make
an end. And here, after fourteen years, during
which time he had lived immersed in business,
travelling often, moving at least four or live
times, he once more found himself—incredible
chance .—the very morning of his wedding-day
before the wardrobe in which were kept the gar-
ments and trinkets with which he would not part,
all that remained to him of his first wife. What
should he doLook at them ? Never! Anil
then, was this the moment to sadden himself by
awakening memories of all that mournful past
which had slumbered so long ? But, on the other
hand, ought he to leave these things as they were?
His wife, to morrow, might notice this old piece
of furniture, open it. At any price he
must prevent such a painful discovery. And a
wild longing, violent, unconsidered, to turn the
key and cast his eyes for one moment only over
the contents of the wardrobe, took possession of
him. He hesitated ; then steeling himself for the
task, he opened it with a great noise. A gust of
confined air struck him in the face, and the moths
escaped, flying in every direction.
On the shelves were ranged parcels, robes,
boxes. It seemed to him that these garments,
these things belonging to the dead, that is to say,
to a shadow, a negation, a person who hud
existed, assumed a peculiarly sinister immobility,
and to destroy this impression he emptied the
wardrobe of its entire contents, overturning every-
th mg, throwing out linen, boxes, everything, hap-
hazard. When this was done, he began, with
trembling hands, to examine each article sepa-
rately. There was, first, a little bag, filled with
herbs and faded flowers, which she had em-
broidered on returning from an excursion ; next, a
paar of tiny, black-satin slippers ; linen with the
faint scent of the lavender she always had about
her still clinging to it. A bodice that yet retained
the rounded impression of her form, skirts, hand-
kerohiefs with her beloved initial, K. —Katherine
—, the first letter of the word kiss,” she had said,
holding up her lips to him. Oh, that kiss ! fresh,
Perfumed, which she gave him even in her last
agony, her arms around his neck ! He recalled
it now, in spite of the 14 years which had elapsed
since then.
. had loved him, once and for all. Her affec-
tion had never for one moment waned. She had
adored him to her last breath. Fool—triple fool
that he was to re-marry ! Was it possible to win
twice in succession in the lottery of happiness ?
He recalled his furious despair when the under-
taker s men entered the death-chamber one morn-
ing in November. He had thrown himself on the
coffin, clasping it frantically, shrieking : “ No one
shall take her from me ! ” What must she think
of him if she should be present at this shameful
scene ! And, in an access of exaltation, he threw
himself on the garments, pressing to his lips the
dainty finery which lie drenched with his tears,
clasping to his heart the poor little relics, repeat-
ing, between his sobs : “ I love you ! I love you !
—1 love no one but you ! ”
He lived over again the six years passed with
her. She re-appeared to him, slender, caressing,
as in the old days. ...
Suddenly, lie heard the clock strike twelve. He
sprang to his feet, recollecting, with a shudder of
horror, that this was to have been his wedding
day ; everyone had been awaiting him—the rela-
tives, the bride—for over an hour already.
He realised the dreadful and ridiculous catas-
trophe, but he could do nothing to avert it. His
bride, in truth, was the little dead girl whom he
had never loved enough. He felt that she was
there, pleading with him to be faithful to her!
She had come back to him through the gates of
death, and lie would never leave her again.
ihe sound of footsteps on the stairs startled
nun.
1 he wedding-party, alarmed at his unwarranted
delay, had sent in search of him. What should
he say to them? They would not understand !
He would be forced to go with them. He cast a
rapid, frightened look around him, like a trapped
animal seeking some avenue of escape,..- His
breath was coming in quick, short gasps. Great
drops of sweat stood on his pallid brow. The
footsteps were drawing nearer. . . .
A slender steel stiletto gleamed up at him from
the depths of a quaint Indian basket—his little
dead love leaned toward him, the grave-damp
clinging to her garments, but the old love-light in
her eyes. ■ . , .
There was a flash of steel in the sunlight, then
a fall.
W hen the old housekeeper, Agatha, who had
been searching for him everywhere, entered the
room, she found him lying at full length among
the scattered contents of the wardrobe—dead, a
smile on his lips, the blood oozing slowly from a
wound in his left breast. — From the French.


Wffrmmm
RffWED-
tfAMC£OUNT OF PfiE#tl
ISFS' COMING
7)OkVN
t
PICTURESQUE OLD SYDNEY—OR GRIM DEATH AND THE ALDERMAN.
KINO DEATH: “ONLY TWO VICTIMS THIS TIME, PAR, A HUNDRED AND THIRTY SAILORS HAVE SLIPPED OUT OK THE TRAP. BETTER LUCK
NEXT TIME.”


lll * !l i i u S 3
E'J'fe*' cfeofinc, «
J cJ.
et" fod <5 fh<2
Concr’eS’o
® . *
4 I ja S.i i e C| J- V "
4«cr ?
" 7 n e / NJ r~./ —\
\ ( «T UP J
/A p S' O n 7 (*7o on or (§Oi 00/ r r, \.
/ O
b <£"V .
£J I J MAT :> &O*- D ° l _ J _H I
Tv Y r < \/' i
vJ | 'U 7 m X virtuoso
U c e , / *°° €n o v-o e - Tl i el'
"ff .h <e- f' < b tS. €f? Ck /"
f ian o n 6/c b a/s ’
C-
t fy
aj t-he lAstnee-d /V}&s>h ev* of-f'et-H
C~r]orr , /o
3£)ull Ant (^ e /** b'/+e &/•(/)
Iye \o"sf my map Jmou/cJyou
be K 6 0 <§ ooc/ — ~—-
\/Ve O °
f<sc* c\ ot poiper o*l-7
i~l~' e en u S WO m O n
(,f 4- fy «. y cl I e"f us j
pjVj<ace(c?nj
propofeeS *W a. (aa J is h
jj I a > Fl oe
11 1/ as
been c!/sco
irerec/ I h
th& JaC'hj* :S S j-j yjy t
.. lo.bhe fri/e Jr^oi/Pa
e,w of /)
usrro !/ a
J Ut~f~/-r /-<; s cctrc AS S
SCIENCE-CONGRESS NOTIONS


lOREIGN & COLONIAL EXCHANGE BANK
OF AUSTRALASIA. Limited,
Sydney— B6 King Street.
Melbourne—369 Collins Street.
FiOndon Bankers—Australian Joint Stock Bank,
No, 2 King William Street, London, E.C.
Authorised Capital, £500,000 .
S. RICHARDSON, Esq., Managing Direotoi’,
This Bank undertakes the Exchange of Money,
both International and Intercolonial, includ-
ing the Coinage ok all Foreign Nations, in
addition to all usual and customary banking busi-
ness.
Deposits Received.
3 years 8£ per cent.
12 months 8 per cent.
6 months ... 7 per cent.
3months ... 6 percent.
Communications to be addressed to “The
Managing Director.”
Use Batho’s Bakin# Powder.
Write for plans £lO Building sites, Perth,
Western Australia. Intercolonial Investment
Company, Limited, 06 Bathnrst-street, Sydney.
The
Marvellous
18s. 6d.
OPTIMUS
WATCHES.
The Best, Cheapest and Most Accurate Timekeepers
ever produced.
Made, especially to our order by one of the leading and
most celebrated manufacturers of Watches in Switzerland,
and experience has shown that no watch is better than a
well-made Swiss one.
(Jilt movements, jewelled in six holes, keyless (10 turns
to wind), enamel dials, crystal faces, well made, splendidly
finished, nickel cases that will wear excellently; in fact,
real good-looking, handsome little watches, and magnifi-
cent timekeepers.
Twelve months’ guarantee forwarded with every one.
Send 1’.0.0. for 19s. 6d. (Is. postage), and have one
forwarded by post. If not in every way satisfactory after
a week money willingly refunded.
Only to he obtained from
FROST <Sc SHIPHAM,
Spectacle Makers, Opticians k Electricians,
474 & 587 George Street, Sydney,
W. H. PALING & COMPANY, LIMITED,
356 George Street, SYDNEY,
HAVE .Tttst Opened a Magnificent Lot of 3ST© - w Pianos from the celebrated Makers, Steinway, Erard, Uebel, Fenrich, Lipp, Ronisch, Bluthner, Collard, and other
Also of *the wonderful Victor Pianos at and Eatey Organa. No such Varioiv or Value elsewhere for Cash or Teems.
•I*' 1 * ~
Society
A lot of people in Sydney will remember
De Servan, a French naval-lieutenant who dis-
tinguished himself by his gallantry during the
New Caledonian insurrection, De Servan has
again distinguished himself —by his gallantry.
Some years ago he married, in London, a pretty
American widow who didn’t happen to know that
the consent of the bridegroom’s parents, granted
in proper legal form, was necessary to validate her
marriage in the bridegroom’s country. Now, De
Servan has quarrelled with his wife and cast her off,
and has, in France, married another woman ac-
cording to French law. His American wife has
no redress. Any Australian woman who thinks
of marrying or giving her daughter in marriage to
a Frenchman should paste this in the centre of her
biggest looking-glass.
# * *
The other day Mr. A., of Melbourne, took
his son back to school in a certain up-country
town, and then called in at the local club, a lively
rendezvous where the hand-bell ringeth all day
long and the waiter knoweth exactly that after
the thirteenth nip Dr. will tell that scream-
ing 1 professional yarn of his (only adapted for pub-
lication in any journal privately circulated among
commercial travellers). Mr. A. now heard the
yarn for the first time, with the result that he
went recklessly “on the spree.” In the early
stages he wired to Mrs. A. that he would be the
guest of the head-master for a day "or two. On
the second day, towards evening, he was raving
on his bed in the hotel, and they sent to the school
for his son. The youngster was despatched by
the hotel people to the telegraph-office with in-
structions to wire for his mother as father xvas
unwell. Five minutes later this message was
flashing down to St. Kilda —-“Pa’s awful tight.
Come up, ma.”
Governor Hopetoun has visited Ballarat,
and the Mayor, one Little, went very much out of
Ins vv i.v to assure the young gentleman as to the
d*w-with which Ballarat regarded him and
Ins noble ancestry. Mayor Little declared that if
any Republican trouble arose Ballarat will be
found as loyal as Windsor Castle. This is good
—from the city of Peter Lalor and the Eureka
Stockade.
* * *
The Sydney Boarding-House is gradually
leaving Macquarie-street, Phillip-street, and
Wynyard-square for Darlinghurst, Bayswater-
road and the fashionable Woollahra. The popu-
lation of Sydney must have wonderfully increased
within the past few years, for during that time
hotels, coffee-palaces, and boarding-houses have
arisen in all directions, and the tariff has nof de-
creased. The Hotel Metropole opens this month.
Darling Point is fast losing its “ exclusiveness.”
More than one-half its present residents are
wealthy traders—not retired from business. A
city alderman has a fine place there, and some
most unsightly boarding-houses have recently
been erected. Even its proximity to the (Sydney)
I Zingari Cricket Club will scarcely save it if the
present invasion continues.
“HOME” SOCIETY.
“Masculine attire for shooting is becoming prevalent among ladies.”
SHORT-SIGHTED MASHER (who has been telling rather a racy star and has suddenly made
a discovery): “BY JOVE! I BEG PARDON, OLD FELLOW-I MEAN
MISS-ER—ER I REALLY TOOK YOU FOR A BROTHER GUN.”
The leasee of the collapsed Sydney hotel
has been ordered to remove the ruins. A magnifi-
cent satire this on the state of things which cannot
compel the removal of an unsafe building until it
falls down from sheer decay and kills two people.
* # *
How was it that, if the Volunteer Artillery
Hotel was condemned as uninhabitable, the police
(who “inspect” all houses licensed or to be
licensed) allowed a licence to lie issued for it ?
* # *
Some of the very “downiest” men in
Sydney were in that Government stamp-advertising
scheme which has so ingloriously gone under.
* * *
We could easily forego the pleasure of
listening to the champion Sydney foghorn. That’s
a foghorn conclusion.
* * *
One Ross Cox, a schoolmaster, comes out
every now and then with a clever scientific hoax
in the Melbourne Age. On Saturday week it
was the Ostroscope, or something like that. But
it is bad for a paper to trade on its own credit.
James Harrison (“<Edipus ”) will write something
to the Age, truly scientific, from London, and
people will say it is one of Ross Cox’s hoaxes.
The cry of wolf over again.
# * #
A Melbourne newspaper proprietor was in
a restaurant the other day with two of his con-
tributors. One contributor picked up a three-
penny-bit off the floor, and asked if the other con-
tributor had dropped it (of course lie knew that
the newspaper proprietor would never have relaxed
his grip of the coin). “No,” was the reply, and
the threepenny-bit lay on the table. The pro-
prietor said, “As nobody claims it, I may as
well take it.” Which he did. A moral in this,
too.
* * *
During the visit of the last comet the
husband of a very stout lady resident in Auckland,
N.Z., aroused her at a late hour to view the
heavenly visitor. Pushing the window up with
vigour, they both threw the upper part of their
bodies out and in so doing so startled a partially
somnolent policeman that he, seeing the glare of
the comet, concluded that the house was on fire
and gave warning at the nearest fire-brigade
station in these terms —“There’s a big fire beyant
at house, whin I came away they were just
comminein to chuck out the feather-bed.”
A dead Chinaman with a piece of soap
tightly clasped in his hand has been found in the
Darling river at Bourke. Virtue never does get
more than half a show now-a-days.
* * *
“The deputation also asked that addi-
tional accommodation be provided at Dapto for
the storage of milk, as the milk traffic in this place
was increasing, as much as 100 cans of milk being
sent away daily. It was desired that the present
accommodation might be extended to the pump, a
distance of about 24ft.”—Sydney Daily.
* # #
Moved to righteous indignation by the
apathy of magistrates in not falling with sufficient
judicial violence on the prisoners, the Melbourne
police have threatened to go out on strike. They
affirm that there is no encouragement for the
zealous and efficient policeman who gets all his
shins ringbarked and his energies exhausted in
hauling and tugging a furious law-breaker to the
lockup if the J.sP. don’t give the latter a lot of
cat and a season in irons and make him climb a
tread-mill for overtime or something equally con
vinoing. Some reflections ;
We’ve heard before the peeler’s life
Is devilishly tough,
We little thought it was because
The beaks don’t flog the rough,
Nor with the cat claw up the backs
Of sinners near enough.
If Bobby won’t be happy till
The hangman has more scope,
And “riotous behaviours” are
Suspended on a rope—
A consummation likely to
Brush up the trade in soap—
We’re much afraid his doleful lot
Will never be made sweet;
His Inpes are vain, for here below
His joys grow obsolete,
And there below he’s bound to bo
Much bothered by the heat.
And if he strikes we guess he’ll see
That bantam will not fight—
We find the fat, officious traps
A nuisance in the light,
And who cares if they sleep at home
Or on the streets at night ?
* * #
Concerning the fining of “drunks” by
magistrates who are themselves “ rocky,” a corres-
pondent tells us a yarn of a swollen-headed
N.S.Wales J. P. who, fining an inebriate half-a-
orown or 24 hours, was pitifully assured by the
prisoner that he had, no money. “Nevermind,”
said the magistrate,' putting his hand in his
pocket, “ I’ll pay it for you,” and then (withdraw-
ing it empty) s “ I’m very sorry I’ve no money on
me; you’ll have to take it out.
Baron Yon Mueller, with half-a-mile of
woollen comforter twisted round his neck to keep
the hot wind away, was a weird and wonderful
apparition at the Australasian Science garden
party. As he stood outside Salmon Wilson’s hall
in Melbourne University grounds, the Baron
looked, far and away, the most scienoey object in
creation. His hair dated back to the pre-
Raphaelite period, and his coat presented every
appearance of having been dug out of the primeval
forest with a pitchfork. His boots were built in
the early Doric style ; as for his revered tile —it
was like the one our first parent wore after he had
eaten of the fruit and felt impelled to cover up the
nakedness of his bald head. The Baron’s com-
forter was a comparatively modern item ixi his
appalling wardrobe, and the world of science
unanimously agreed that this endless wrap em-
bodied the president’s idea of geological fancy
dress. It was no small thing to be the most
remarkable figure in such a congregation of curios.
The genuine savants beamed upon their host
through blue spectacles, while the savants who
were not genuine—the impostors attracted into
the magic circle by unlimited lemonade and buns
• —would every now and again rest from their
assaults upon the commissariat department to say
“ Good old Baron Von Mueller !”
* * *
A Parisian medical congress concludes
that kissing is a relic of barbarism. Now we
know why the clergy are so fond of it.
# # «
The Rev. Mr. Cuthbert, a Wesleyan par-
son, of North Fitzroy, Melbourne, instituted pro-
ceedings against a local shopkeeper last week for
selling a bottle of lemonade on the Sawbath. The
reverend informer was pained by the eagerness of
his flock to damp his sermons.
* * *
A Mrs. Lister, who recently obtained a
divorce in England from her loving hubby, with
alimony, recently re-married. Lister at once
stopped the allowance, but on his ex-wife’s appeal-
ing the Court decided against him. There is no
rest for the wicked.
* * *
Since the demise of dear Augusta
The powder-monkeys oft have cussed ’er ;
These whiffs of brimstone and saltpetre
We trust are not the smells that greet her,
But whether gone above, below,
“Praise God from whom all blessings flow.”
# # *
Lord Salisbury has recently been buttering
the Hon. Harold Finch-Hatton, stating that our
visitor of some six years ago is “a man of colonial
experience and wide Imperial sympathies and
possessed of those rare gifts,” &c., &c. We don’t
know much about the Hon. Harold’s sympathies,
but his colonial experience and rare gifts enabled
him to put it on record that “ there is more wit in
the Sydney Bulletin than in all the English
comic papers put together. ” And we hope Lord
Salisbury is listening.
* # *
The new “ Commissioner ” of the Harmy
in Australasia has issued orders to attack the
masses who are rushing to destruction and capture
10,000 souls during the next six months. Mean-
while the “ Gen’ral ”is advancing upon England
with the main body of his forces, intending to
capture no less than 100,000 of the Nicodemus
brigade at one fell swoop. Extensive orders for
big-drums and repentance-forms are in hand, the
Hallelujah bonnet trade is booming, and several
thousand square miles have been added to the
Kingdom of Heaven. Come and join us.
*• * *
Brandy-flasks built to look like a pocket-
novel, bound in leather, are the latest things out.
A BALLAD OF TRUE LOVE.
(AFTER THE POET PARKES.)
0 fairer than the fairest rose
Where never sunbeams burn the bloom
That in a shaded corner blows '
Or scents a gentle maiden’s room
Is Arabella G. to me,
The idol of this glowing part —
Ah, sweet, till death none else with thee
Can share the conquest of my heart!
1 love thee, love, “because it’s nice ”
It’s rapture such a fay to woo.
Ah ! bid me make some sacrifice,
Dear Ragged Jane, to prove me true,
No fine and fragrant ladies high
Have stirred my soul in early times,
Nor other, Minnie, bade one sigh
Or fired the vigour of my rhymes ;
To thee alone this raptured soul
Poin-s out its lyric wealth, I swear,
And but for thee my heart were whole,
Oh, Stella, ruddy-lipped and rare.
Whole summer months of gladness shine
Within me, and on zephyr wings
My soul floats high —thou wilt be mine,
And share my humble borrowings !
Come, Stella, kiss me once again,
And fold me in thy fond, fair arms.
Here could I die in precious pain
Here bound in alabaster charms,
And feeling sweet thy heart’s true beat
Respondent, Helen, to the throb
Of my true heart. ’Tis rapture, sweet—
’Tis ecstasy that makes me sob.
On icebergs and on tossing ships
I’ve heard my Helen’s dulcet tones,
And longed to press thy red, ripe lips
And hold thee thus, Johanna Jones—
To hold thee thus and never part
Till called away by frowning fate.
Believe thou’rt Empress of my heart,
My fairest, fondest, faithful Kate.
THAT CITY IMPROVEMENT BOARD.
How long, O ! Lord,
Of their accord
Shall crazy houses tumble down
To crush and kill
Poor .Tack and Jill,
Among the streets of Sydney town ?
O ! Lord, how long
Shall cruel wrong
Menace us when we walk abroad,
Ere men awake,
And measures take
To alter that Improvement Board,
How long, O ! Lord ?
How long, O ! Lord,
Can we afford
To pay a lot of duffers fees,
Who sit and snort
A “Full Report,”
Then toddle home to podgy ease ?
Full soon, perhaps,
A fresh collapse
Will put more bodies ’neath the sward ;
Ere Sydney may
Arise and slay
The whole of its Improvement Board,
How long, 0 ! Lord V
A FATAL ERROR.
Of their Victorian railways
No more the Southerns skite,
They take a ticket nowadays
And bid the world “ good-night ! **
No gladsome ptean of praises rash
Do papers warble now—
For Speight has had another smash,
And killed a blessed Chow.
’Twas felt to be an omen odd
Of evil to the State;
The vengeance of a heathen god
Is bound to fall on Speight ;
O ! devil take and woe betide
The chief who could allow
A pair of trains to thus collide
And pulverise a Chow.
There’ll be nae luck aboot the rail,
The times are out of joint;
Again we’ll hear the porter's tale—
“ He couldn’t work a point.”
(Though Speight can work one very well —
He got his extra thou. )
And men will go Above to dwell,
Because of that there Chow.
They might have settled Gillies, or
They might have squelched Munro,
They might have asked the Governor
In that goods-train to go.
They might have shifted Tommy Bent,
No matter when, or how.
Instead of doing thus they went
And killed a blessed Chow.


The SYDNEY DEPOSIT BANK,
90 - KING STREET -90
Established 1885.
Agencies in London and throughout Australia,
Overdrafts granted against Deposit of Deeds,
and all the usual banking business transacted.
The following are the Kates of Interest allowed
for Fixed Deposits
3 Years hi per cent,
12 Months 8| per cent,
6 Months ... ... 7i per cent.
3 Months per cent.
5 per cent, allowed on daily balance of current account.
For the past Four (4) Years a Bonus of One per
Cent, has been paid in addition to the above rates.
This is the first and only Bank in the Colonies
which divides its profits with its depositors.
Communications from the country will be
promptly attended to.
T. S. RICHARDSON,
General Manager.
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
Photography. —The established and well-known
firm of Creelman & Co., Photographers, in the
Sydney Arcade, beg to announce to their numerous
clientele and the public generally that the price of
their Cabinet Photographs is now reduced to
15s. per dozen. The common objection raised by
many, “that our photographs were very good,
but too dear,” is now taken away. Hesitate no
longer to have a sitting.
In the Press and shortly to he published,
the first of The Bulletin series, “ A Golden
Shanty— Australian stories and sketches in prose
and verse by Bulletin writers. ” Being a selection
from the brightest of the original literary matter
which has made The Bulletin world-famous.
Price one shilling ; if posted sd. extra.
Use Batho's Baking Powder.
Mayor’s Ball.—Messrs. Charlemont & Co., of
the Royal Arcade, respectfully beg to intimate to
all the ladies who attended the Mayor’s Ball, held
in the Centennial Hall, on the evening of the 27th
ultimo, that they are now photographing the ladies
who attended the ball for the purpose of making
up an album as a memento of the occasion.
Grosvenor Galleries, Royal Arcade.
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
Everybody says—and what everybody says must be true
that Pemell’s Snow white Patent Roller Flour is the
best in the market.
At Mark Young s Pier Hotel, Frankston, near
Melbourne, superior accommodation for visitors.
Fresh and salt-water baths in house, close to sea
baths. Horses and buggies for hire.
Hors ford's Acid Phosphate
FOR IMPAIRED VITALITY
and weakened energy is wonderfully successful
n
6
EE
©
Mi
Almost as palatable
AS MILK.
So disguised that the most
delicate stomach can taka it.
Hemarlsablo as a
FLESH PRODUCER.
Persons gain rapidly
while taking 14.
SCOTT’S EMULSION
Is by Physicians to be the FINES'!!
and BEST preparation of its class for the relief o;
CONSUMPTION, SCROFULA, GENERAI
DEBILITY, WASTING DISEASES OF
CHILDREN, and CHRONIC COUGHS.
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS.
Robertson’s Whisky.
£2OO
PRIZES.
GIVEN AWAY IN THE COLONIES
AS FOLLOWS:
16 of A 5 each, 25 £2, and 70 Al,
Pamphlets from the Agents, AT ■Tj‘X* Jto C^3..
CHARLOTTE PLACE. SYDNEY
Each flask bears the name of a well-known work
in gold lettering. “The Mystery of a Hansom
Cab ” ought to sell freely in this form, for it is
notorious that ladies occasionally convert han-
soms” into sly-drinking shops. We’ve seen em
liquoring up in the corner.
# * *
“ Hay ter ” says that in Victoria in 1887
there were 61 deaths from diphtheria, in 1888 there
were 121, and last year 306 deaths from the same
disease.
* * *
Bella Ferguson, a semi-lunatic, has had
her death-sentence for child-murder commuted by
a merciful Victorian Government to ten years hal'd
labour. This somewhat reminds us of one of
Lover’s stories, in which an Irish jury find a man
o-uilty of murder, although the alleged defunct
was produced in court alive and hearty. “ That s
all right, my lord, but a number of bad deeds have
been done here lately and somebody must suffer
for them. We find him guilty, my lord !”
* * *
A body of American sailors lately went to
the German consulate at Samoa and demanded
dinner. “This is not a hotel,” said the consul.
“Waal,” replied the spokesman, “if it ain’t a
restaurant what do you hang out that black fowl
for ?”
* # *
We beg to call attention to the odious
system of slavery now growing up in Australia.
The rich men, the mutton-millionaires and such,
are now buying for large sums the bodies of
“handled” Englishmen who have no money but
can say “haw!” and are handing them over to the
tender mercies of the daughters of the mutton-
millionaires aforesaid.
* * *
‘ ‘ The Australian Legislature has passed a
law taxing all married c juples living with their
mothers-in-law ; nine hundred dollars if residing
with the husband’s mother-in-law, and one hun-
dred and twenty dollars if with the wife’s. ” This
we clip from an American source. We are sorry
that the good work in question has not yet been
accomplished by the “Australian legislature,”
but we live in hopes.
# * *
In a burst of voluptuous passion the Age
tells us of those “fair Circassian damsels, whose
brightest day-dream of life is to 101 l on soft
divans in rooms lined with bright marbles . . .
to enjoy for hours at a time the luxurious toilet of
the bath . . . and in the retirement of the
harem, where no other man may come, to hold
their lord bound by the spell of their fully re-
vealed charms.” Be still our beating heart,
while the office-boy obliges with a little slow,
sensuous music:—
O ! naughty Age. O ! journal giddy,
You set the heart of man afire,
And fill the soul of maid or widdy
With subtle sense of sweet desire;
Perchance you cause a weary wife
To sigh for a Circassian’s life.
On soft divan all day reclining
(Or “ lolling ” is the better word)
In perfumed rooms, with marble lining,
Until the lord’s light step is heard ;
And then to bind him by the spell
Of charms which pen may never tell!
Why, after such a glimpse bewitchin’
Of Eastern glory in the Age,
The hired girl, who sweeps the kitchen,
Would drop her shovel in a rage,
And cry : ‘ ‘ When will the baker come
To make a slave of me ? Yum, yum ! ”
It’s too delicious, too seductive
For simple readers born to toil
(Although, of course, its most instructive).
We want our pot, not blood, to boil ;
We would not dream of clinging arms,
Nor think about “revealed charms.”
Don’t do it, Age ; have mercy, pity
Upon us erring mortals weak !
Ten thousand men in Smellbourne city,
With rolling eye and flaming cheek
Have turned their backs on business duties
To liunt up fair Circassian beauties.
# * *
Complaint is made to us that “ a foreigner
employed in aN.S.W. Government institution has
just been pitchforked into a cosy billet (£2OO a
year) over the heads of many older hands in- the
same institution.” The allegation as to unjust
preference calls for enquiry, but what our corres-
pondent may mean by the word “ foreigner ” we
don’t know. If he intends to convey that the
person indicated is not English, then he is to be
pitied for the Cookneyfied narrowness of his
views, as Frenchmen, Germans, Russians, and
men from all other lands are equally acceptable as
citizens in our cosmopolitan country. As to his
additional complaint that the “foreigner’s” wife
gets seven guineas a week in a millinery establish-
ment “ thus robbing an unprotected lady of her
very existence,” we need only enquire whether a
man is to be deprived of work because his wife’s
services are so valuable as to bring £7 7s. a week
in an honorable employment ? The days have
gone, never to return, when it was regarded as
disgraceful for women to work, and some of the
happiest and most prosperous of married couples
are those where the wife is able to supplement the
income of her husband —or, if you like to turn it
round the other way, where the husband is able to
add to the income of the wife.
* * *
Melbourne has a new and very cosy club,
the Beefsteak. Leading members are levers,
Moloney, Potts, Frank Stuart, M.P., Deegan,
Leon. It is a cross between the Owls and Shakes-
peare society. The Beefsteakers fancy the Owls
are too fast, and the Shakespeare too slow. So they
meet once a month at the Cathedral Hotel, and
eat beefsteaks, washed down more by claret than
the vulgar stout. After dinner somebody reads
a paper, not naughty papers of the Owl type.
** * '
The new style of glove for ladies lias a
small purse adroitly fixed in the palm of the hand.
The pickpocket will now want to sit down and
think out a fresh move.
* # *
“ Dthrink, yer Aimer 1 dthrink? ’ said a
South Melbourne constable in respqse to a query
from the Bench. “ Whoi, lie’s alwis dthrinkin’ -
he’s a regular bibliomaniac.”
* # *
From a Melbourne paper :
Tp VANGELINE to J. T. L.— Don’t be foolish. If yon
■lb ,( 0 , a j«. such a melancholy view choose a sweeter
place than the Yarra.
To cruel Evangeline from The Bulletin ;
Nay, let him in the Yarra vile
Fulfil his purpose grim,
If the fool would suicide for you
It’s good enough for him.
* # *
Overheard in a first-class carriage on the
N.S.W. Southern line, being the deeply scientific
conversation between a newly-married couple,
well known in Melbourne, who wore going over to
Sydney for the races. She (fondly and tearfully
as they gazed out of the window) : “ Look at that
I v f\
CW T ° tit
odo 0
oti '
VS
.foo/f r/
W,
//>
poor engine-driver, sweet ; would oo like to be an
engine-driver, darling?” He (proudly, caressing
her) : “ No, ducky; would my little girl like to
be one ? ” Blissful conversation rudely inter-
rupted by irreverent splutterings from the next
compartment.
# * *
The appointment of Mr. Frank Rogers,
Q.C., as President of the new Land Board (annual
salary, £2000) is another piece of luck for the
Junior Bar.
# * *
We are informed that a newly-appointed
N.S.W. backblock P.M. has issued a ukase to
prevent Sunday fishing.
* # *
The Israelites are opposed to cremation,
says a Melbourne paper. The sons of Israel have
always displayed an antipathy to being done
brown.
# * *
Governor Hopetoun says he is an ardent-
hunter, and he hopes to give an impetus to the
sport in Melbourne. Wo suppose he means tuft-
hunting.
* * *
Medals awarded in connection with the
Melbourne Exhibition are at last ready for dis-
tribution. A fair per-oentage of the lucky prize-
winners have died without their medals.
He Could Swear.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
It was a scorchingly hot day. The heat quivered
again in the air, even the crows felt it; the
’mometer stood at 118’ in the shade, and the boss
of Bobbitty station lolled lazily back in a canvas
chair on the comparatively cool verandah. A
traveller, in no wise different from the _ ordinary
run of travellers in the West, rode up, hitched his
horse to a post in the yard, and, stockwhip in
hand, crossed to the verandah. “ Want a hand ! ’
queried the man laconically.
“ What are you ?” said the boss, parrying ques-
tion with question.
“Fencer, splitter, bull-puncher,” commenced
the stranger.
“ Well, as it happens, I do want a bullocky,’
said the boss, sitting up, “1 want an ‘offside’
bullocky, if you know what that means.” The
man nodded acquiescence. “ Can you crack a
whip ? ” .
“ Yes, said the stranger, suiting the action to
the word, and the yard soon resounded with
volleys of crack ! crack ! ! crack !! ! as he first
with one hand, then witli the other, performed a
series of fancy cracks with his stockwhip, wind-
ing up with a perfect feu-de-jede. salute.
“ I see you can crack a bit,” said the boss.
“ Can you swear ! ”
“ I — l— think lean,” modestly and hesitatingly
replied the applicant; “I think 1 can.” “Well,
let’s hear you,” incautiously and thoughtlessly
said the boss. “ Can I swear? Why, you tallow-
chopped, pudding-faced, pumpkin-headed son of a
salt-sea cook, can I swear? Why, you cord-
jammed, dod-gasted, hydatid-livered, blankity-
blanked, jamjammed, rotterdammed, amster-
dammed, schiedammed, cramjammed, ruddy,
sanguinary, gore-blistered ”
Here the boss’s wife was heard to violently slam
the back door, close all the windows and retire
„aying, “I can’t think how George
can let that horrid man abuse him so
frightfully. What’s the use of George
being a .!. I’. if he can’t lock such a-
brute up?” .
In the meantime the man continued
without once stopping—“Of all the
blankity-blanked-blank, crimson, gore-
coloured, rammitty, jam ini tty, , c ™“
jammed, soft-headed, sejuash-brained,
rorty, ripperty—,
Here some of the hands rolled up,
and the horsebreaker put it to the wood-
and-water joey ;
“ Look here, Sam, we can’t stand
this. This feller’s been abusing the old
man something fearful. If I hadn’t
sprained my arm yesterday .” _
But the wood-and-water joey didn’t
stop to waste words. The blasphemer
was rolling it out worse than ever and
time was precious. So the station
hewer-of-wood and drawer -of - water
stepped up to the blasphemer and smote
him a back-hander on the jaw. “Stop
yer infernal gab !”saidhe. The stranger
was nothing loth; he stopped his
“gab” and returned smite for smite, and soon
the blasphemer and the Gibeonite were ding-dong
hard at it. At last, when both were breathless
and panting from their exertions in the heat, the
boss explained matters and peace was proclaimed.
“ But why did you swear at me ?” said he to the
stranger. “Well, cord-jam it, governor, I had to
get steam up to swear at something, and you was
the only quad-rooped visible, so I just swore at
you natural like.”
He got the billet.
BAK BLOX.
A Statesman’s Soliloquy.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
On February Fourth I’ll meet those men.
They are not of the mental build—the height,
The breadth, the mellow, glossy, rotund, ripe
And gen’rous judgment—which I inly love.
A tweaked-nosed company they seem to me ;
A mere resultant of a pair of kicks.
Luck kicked them, and their personal estates
Burst into harvest; and the greenh’de boot
Of manhood suffrage kicked, and thus they bear
Themselves as front men in the land to-day.
Some hour two other kicks will lay them flat,
And Earth will never know air filled their lungs.
No lion roared in answer when their birth
Made noise, and only curs prick up cropped ears
As yet when they blow speeches in the public face.
To stand on equal ground, and equal voice
To mouth with these is not congenial work;
And were the cause less sacred, were it less
Absorbing, world-embracing in its scope,
That poor, thin, poodle-headed spectacle
Of pinched endowments would bring down dense
brows ,
Upon fierce, scorn-lit eyes, and barked and snapped
Words, flung from acrid lips, would rout the gang.
The two things great in man are Mind and Heart,
Mind, mounting miles beyond the farthest star,
And diving deeper than the ray of star,
Or moon or sun will ever dive, O hail!
And hail, O Heart, that, pure, for ever beats,
Throb, throb, with the pure Mind ; throb, throb,
until,
Grown one at last, they read the redo of Life .
Where was I ? Oh, that miserable troop
Of accidents whom I am pledged to meet !
Not one among them ever heard within
The temple of his being whispered word
Or gentle footfall of a god of Thought,
Or trumpet-call or clarion cry or crash
Proclaiming that a god of Duty spoke.
Take him! What’s he? A thin-lipped lawyer
chit . . .
Whose veins were sucked of all their ruddy juice
By thirst for “getting on ” —what in his eyes
Was “getting on.” He has “ got on,” but wrier#
He sits and wags his feeble beard the sun
Of noble aspiration cannot shine.
He’ll fit his people with the laws they ask,
Just as the tailor with the pants they ask.
The cut, the style, the hue will all be theirs,
And he, while posing as their ruler, guide,
Will be their servile tool unto the end.
O statesmanship, your lamp illumes the path
The race, by nations, tread, and he who rules
Should watch ahead, and warn and save from pits,
And force to fertile vales ; and hold deaf ears
To children crying through the night of life,
Although each child be registered to vote !
But where was I ? Oh, yes ; just looking at
The mental cripples I am asked to meet 1
Take him ! Except as juggler what has he
In any path of public duty won ?
Affection for the heart his work disclosed ?
Or admiration for the head which planned ?
Or any breath of high regard for skill
Or will to raise the race a single inch ?
Take him! There is another of those men
Kicked up in front! Instead of exploit grave,
Or shining light thrown round the people’s feet,
Or sounding words poured in the people’s ears,
He stakes his claim to confidence and love
Upon the fact that he has paid his debts.
O Honor, has it come to this at last—
That twenty shillings to the pound will give
A man precedence ? Where’s the virtue, grace,
Or other lofty trait in paying up ?
The debtor either has the means to pay,
And if he has the Law will see to it,
Or he has not, and therefore is exempt,
Without a spot upon his name or fame !
O Honor, in your Court the noble man
Is never asked to turn his pockets out,
Or jingle gold before his creditors.
The dross that moneys be is there well known,
And known, too, it more often tills the hands
Of scheming tricksters than of honest men !
Where was I ? Ah, still at the same old task—
Surveying these poor substitutes for men !
But is it not conclusive that the cause
Is dear as heart’s blood to me when I yield
Myself thus up ? Some charge my life with pnda
With self-love, arrogance, and other faults
The simple frailties of acknowledged worth.
But now the truth is seen. My country’s good
Is more than pride, is more than self-love, more
Than party, name, or fame, is more than I!
And so I go to Melbourne on the Fourth,
And wear an air of int rest in their talk. ' _
E. L.
* Surely a worshipper of Parkes hath written this !
Ed. B.


Mr. Henry Copeland, M.P., remarks that,
though a hundred years old, N.S.W. “ can’t mine
enough iron to make a horseshoe nail.”
Phrenologist Joe Fraser, who used to
write about bumps and things for Melbourne
Hebald, died last week. Although Fraser’s
phrenological “ readings ” of public men were
childish (he invariably adapting the subjects’
bumps to their popular reputations and particular
billets) it is probable that he was a good judge of
character. Anyway, Joseph could think a bit
about things in general, and had a good literary
turn for expressing his solemn ideas.
AN EVENING COURTSHIP.
Against the window the rain-drops beat,
The servants lights the lamp,
In cosy parlors lovers meet,
And there they meet and camp.
Oh, “witching hours,” Oh, honeyed love,
Who cares when summer’s flown ?
When one beside the kitchen stove
Can sit and hold his own,
And close together there they sit,
And looking very queer—
They look as though they wanted it,—
St, Louis Lager Beer.
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
Government Advertisements.
LENDERS FOR PUBLIC WORKS AND
SUPPLIES.
For Conditions, see Government Gazette.
Department of Public Works,
Sydney, January 14, 1890.
ţ
BRUCE SMITH.
General Post Office,
Sydney, 13th January, 1890
Attention is directed to Gazette Notice
inviting Tenders for the conveyance of
mails between Linnett’s “Junction Hotel” (on
the Balranald and Ivanhoe Mail Line) and Pan
Ban; Inverell and Wallangra; Wallangra and
Goondiwindi (Queensland); Forbes and Dandaloo;
Bungwall Flat and Forster; Barmedman and
Waliandry; Charlestown and Catherine Hill Bay.
Tenders will be received up to sth February
next, and must be addressed to the Secretary to
the Post Office, Sydney.
DANIEL O’CONNOR.
Amusements.
JgONDI AQUARIUM.
The Most Popular
PICNIC and PLEASURE GROUNDS of AUSTRALIA.
The Famous Switchback Railway, conveying
Passengers from Cliff to Cliff daily.
Splendid Asphalt Open-Air Skating-Rink Free to Visitors.
Open Daily from 10 a. m to 10 p.m.
Admission, Is.; Children, 6d. Trams to Gate—Fare, 4d
Amusements.
■p H E A T R E ROYAL.
Under the Management of Messrs. Williamson,
Garner and Musgrove.
Lessee, Mr. S. Lazar. Treasurer, Mr. Geo. L. Goodman.
TO-NIGHT, THURSDAY, AND EVERY EVENING,
Williamson, Garner and Musgrove’s
GRAND CHRISTMAS ANNUAL,
ALADDIN. ALADDIN.
Admission—ss., 3s. and Is.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE.
Lessee and Manager .... Mr. Geo. Rignold.
Doors open at 7 ; commencing 7.30. Carriages at 10.46.
To-Night and Every Evening,
Shakespeare’s Fairy Comedy,
A MIDSUMMER NIGHT'S DREAM.
Box Office at Theatre from 10 to 5. Prices as usual.
J. P. Macdonald, Acting-Manager.
CRITERION THEATRE.
Sole Proprietor Mr. John Solomon.
Under the Management of Messrs. Brough and Boucioault.
General Manager ... Mr. Mayne.
Doors Open, 7. Overture, 7.55. Carriages, 10.45.
TO-NIGHT, THURSDAY, and EVERY EVENING,
will be produced
friends. friends.
The Comedy is produced under the sole direction of
Mr. DION BOUCICAULT, Jim.
Admission ... £2 2s. to Is.
Box Plan at Nicholson’s. Carriages at 10.40 p.m.
Joe Davis, Business Manager.
S CHOOL OF ARTS.
Lessee—Mr. Harry Rickards. Treas.—Mr. J. C. Leete.
Pronounced Success and Great Enthusiasm.
Mr. HARRY RICKARDS’
New English and Irish Comedy Company.
To-Night at 8, the Screaming Vaudeville,
“In a Fog,” and a Gigantic New Olio
Everything Entirely New.
Prices—3s., 2s. and Is. Plan at Nicholson’s.
Wm. A. Jinkins, Business Manager.
f|IHE CYCLORAMA!
“ Arm! arm! It is, it is, the cannon’s opening roar.”
KSF” This, the most marvellous exhibition ever presented
in Australia, is
OPEN DAILY, 10 a.m. to 10 p.m. Sundays, 3to 10 p.m.
What is it ? What is it ?
Mr. O. O. Dangar, M.P., says: “The roar of cannon
and the rattle of musketry alone are wanted, and scarcely
wanted, to complete the marvellous illusion the artists’
skill so successfully induces.”
Mr. Wm. Beach, the ex-champion sculler, says: “ I
consider it the finest thing I have ever seen.”
Mr. T. K. Abbott, S.M., says: “Simply magnificent.”
Have you seen it ? Have you seen it ?
—The Great Gettysburg Cycloramal—
To-day. To-day. Everyday. Everyday.
Shipping.
JJUDDART, PARKER and CO.’s LINE.
STEAM TO MELBOURNE AND
TASMANIA.
FROM HUDDART, PARKER’S WHARF :
FOR MELBOURNE WHARF DIRECT—
Burrumbeet
Elingamite
4000 tons
1 4000 tons
Tuesday,Jan. 21, at6p.m,
Saturday, Jan. 25, noon
FOR LAUNCESTON, VIA MELBOURNE-
transhipping to S.S. NEWCASTLE.
Burrumbeet
Elingamite
4000 tons
4000 tons
Tuesday, Jan. 21, at6p.m.
Saturday, Jan. 25, noon
These magnificent Steamships have already established
a reputation for their accommodation, and their large size
insures passengers a maximum of comfort. The SALOON
CABINS are light and airy and very roomy. FORE-
CABIN is on main deck, lofty and well ventilated. Com-
plete sanitation and lavatories. ELECTRIC LIGHTING
throughout the ships. Inspection invited on days of
sailing.
RETURN TICKETS AVAILABLE FOR SIX MONTHS.
For rates of Freight and Passage-money apply
HUDDART, PARKER & CO., Limited.
Offices and Wharf—Foot of Margaret-street.
gTEAM to SHOALHAVEN and BERRY.
From Huddart, Parker’s Wharf.
Thursday, January 16
Friday, January 17 ..
Monday, January 20 ..
MEEINDERRY ..
COOMONDERRY
MEEINDERRY ..
at 9 p.m.
at 9 p.m.
at 9 p.m.
Taking cargo for all Shoalhaven ports on Mon-
days and Fridays, and Berry only on Thursdays.
No cargo received after 5 p.m, on day of sailing.
HUDDART, PARKER & CO, Limited.
Office and Wharf—Foot of Margaret Street.
IJNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z.
EXCURSION TO WEST COAST SOUNDS.
THIRTEENTH SEASON.
The S.S. TARAWERA will make THREE EXCUR-
SIONS to the WEST COAST SOUNDS of the MIDDLE
ISLAND, the second leaving Port Chalmers about MON-
DAY, January 20, and the third about THURSDAY
January 30. Connecting steamer for Second Excursion—
MARAROA, January 16, from Melbourne. Each trip will
occupy 10 days from Port Chalmers, and special facilities
will be given for fishing, shooting, and sketching, and for
exploring these wonderful Fiords, where Nature is seen in
her grandest aspects. Opportunity will.also be given for
visiting the Sutherland Falls, Milford Sound, the largest-
in the world. The social enjoyment of passengers is made
a special feature of these excursions, the whole trip taking
the form of an extended picnic. In order to prevent over
crowding only a limited number of passengers will be
taken. The Tarawera will call at Bluff both ways en route.
Fare from Port Chalmers, £l2.
16 Bridge-street.
For watch repairing G. Azzopardi, 319
George-street, is a specialist. Waltham Watches
repaired with the company’s own materials.
Shipping.
JJIRECT SERVICE TO ENGLAND.
PENINSULAR AND ORIENTAL STEAM
NAVIGATION COMPANY.
The Company’s Royal Mail Steamships (under
contract with the Imperial, New South Wales,
Victorian, and South Australian Governments)
will be dispatched from their Wharf, Circular
Quay, as under, for LONDON, calling at Mel-
bourne, Adelaide, Albany, Colombo, Aden, Brin-
disi, Malta, Gibraltar, and Plymouth.
Steamers.
Yaletta .. 4919
Ballaarat .. 4748
Parramatta 4771
Oceana .. ,6362
Shannon .. 4189
Arcadia .. ,6362
Commander. g|j
E-i 5
4) JS 3
o
R. F. Briscoe .. Jan. 18 Jan. 24
E. Ashdown .. Feb. 1 Feb. 7
R. G. Murray .. Feb. 15 Feb. 21
P. S. Tomlin . . Mar. 1 Mar. 7
C. R. Edwards.. Mar. 15 Mar. 21
W. B. Andrews Mar. 29 April 4
Jan 27
Feb 10
Feb 24
Mario
Mar24
April7
And henceforth every alternate week.
RESERVED CABINS ON MODERATE
TERMS.
SALOON PASSENGERS MAY BREAK
THEIR JOURNEY.
The arrangements for SECOND SALOON
PASSENGERS having been thoroughly re-
organised, the accommodation now offered is un-
surpassed.
Passage-money can be paid here for passages
from England. Liberal concessions made to
families.
Passengers, cargo, and parcels are booked through
to India, China, and Japan. Cargo and parcels
will not be received after 3 p.m. on the day pre-
vious to sailing.
Eor all information apply at the Company’s
Offices, 247 George-street.
A. MACLEAN, Acting Agent,
lOMPAGNIE DES MESSAGERIES MARI-
TIMES
SYDNEY to LONDON.
OVERLAND FROM MARSEILLES via PARIS.
Steamers under postal contract with the Government of
France, calling at MELBOURNE ADELAIDE, KING
GEORGE’S SOUND, MAKE, SUEZ, and PORT SAID.
Passengers hooked to KURRACHEB, BOMBAY,
MAURITIUS, and EAST COAST of AFRICA.
The service is carried on by powerful steamers of 4000
tons and 3000 effective h.p., built expressly for the Aus-
tralian and New Caledonian line, which will be despatched
as follows:—
ť
And thenceforward on the 25th of each month.
Rates of passage-money to Marseilles from £2O to £65,
including table wines and Suez Canal dues on passengers.
RETURN TICKETS issued at the following rates
ŧ
English interpreters meet through passengers for
London on arrival of steamers at Marseilles, and accom-
pany them to Paris and Calais.
N.B.—Passengers’ luggage conveyed free of cost from
Marseilles to London.
For freight, passage, and further particulars apply at
the Company’s Office, 15 Macquarie-place.
H. DE POSSEL,
Acting Principal Agent.
U'ORDDEUTSCHER LLOYD.
IMPERIAL GERMAN MAIL.
Passengers are carried according to the requirements of
the English Passenger Acts of 1885 and 1863.
MONTHLY LINE OF DIRECT STEAMERS
from
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, and ADELAIDE,
to SOUTHAMPTON, ANTWERP, and BREMEN, via
COLOMBO, Aden, Suez, and Genoa,
taking passengers for London,
connecting from PORT SAID by DIRECT MAIL and
PASSENGER LINE to BRINDISI,
will be despatched as follows (if practicable):—
t
And thereafter every four weeks.
PASSAGE MONEY from SYDNEY,
£l4 to £57 10s.
RETURN TICKETS, available for NINE and TWELVE
MONTHS, at REDUCED RATES.
Passengers and Cargo are booked through to New York,
via Southampton.
Special facilities are afforded for bringing out relatives
and friends from the United Kingdom and Europe by pre-
payment of the passage money in Australia.
For FREIGHT, PASSAGE, and all further particulars,
apply to
FREDK. BETZ & CO., Agknts,
5 O’Connell-street.
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF NEW
ZEALAND, Limited.
SAN FRANCISCO ROYAL MAIL SERVICE.
OVERLAND ROUTE TO ENGLAND VIA SAN
FRANCISCO AND NEW YORK,
Calling at
AUCKLAND and HONOLULU,
Avoiding alike the heat of the Red Sea and the cold
of Cape Horn.
Under Contract with the Postmasters-General of New
South Wales and New Zealand, the steamers of this line
are appointed to leave Sydney and Auckland for Honolulu
and San Francisco every four weeks, sailing as under:—
ţ
Each steamer carries a duly qualified surgeon.
These steamers are fitted with Electric Lig;ht and with a
Refrigerating Chamber for ship provisions, insuring a
plentiful supply of ice throughout the voyage.
Passengers are booked to San Francisco or through to
European destinations and have at San Francisco choice of
the unrivalled Atlantic Steamship Lines of the Cunard,
Inman, White Star, and other companies.
All first-class passengers are allowed 3501 b. of baggage
to San Francisco and 2501 b. “Overland ” free of charge.
THROUGH FARE TO LIVERPOOL.
FIRST-CLASS .. £6B to £66.
Time-cards, railway maps, and gu.de books, showing all
routes to any point in the United States, may be had on
application
For rates of passage and freight and all other informa-
tion apply at the Company's Offices, 15 Bridge-street.
FREDK. W. JACKSON. Manager.
Furniture, &o.
Jj'EWTON AND LAMB
FURNITURE and PIANOFORTE
WAREHOUSEMEN,
CABINETMAKERS, UPHOLSTERERS
BEDDING MANUFACTURERS.
SHOW BOOMS AND MANUPACTOEY;
SPRING AND O’CONNELL STREETS
MULL SUITES for DINING-ROOM—SIDE-
Jj BOARD, DINNER WAGGON, TABLE,
OVERMANTEL, COUCH, EASY CHAIRS,
CARVING CHAIRS and DINING CHAIRS,
all to match. Newton & Lamb.
ELF-ADJUSTING HAMMOCK CHAIR,
. This chair adjusts itself to any position, from
sitting to reclining and vice versa, at the will of
the occupant. It is simple yet ingenious in its
construction; works automatically. The above
cut represents only two of the numerous positions
that can be obtained instantly, and with but little
effort. It fits perfectly every part of the body,
and gives the occupant entire rest. We can now
supply portable suspension Stands to enable the
Chair to be used anywhere. Price, with Stand,
305.; without Stand, 255.
Packing in canvas, if required, 2s. 6d. extra.
DRAWING-ROOM SUITES, Fashionably
Upholstered, at all prices.
CCASIONAL TABLES in all Woods'.' Im-
mense variety of designs; also, elegantly
finished-in Embroidery, Plush, &c. Newton and
Lamb.
and
Patented.
iTFTu
~WT ALN U T FALL
tt FRONT PEDESTAL
WRITING DESKS, of vari-
ous sizes, fitted with Shelves,
Moveable Pigeon-holes, Slid-
ing Trays, Stationery, Draw-
ers, revolving portable triple
Inkstand. Receptacles for
Stamps, and Ruler and Pen
Racks. Outside Drawers divided into compart-
ments by movable partitions to admit of enlarging
or diminishing the space when required. Locks
automatically. One of the most useful, commo-
dious, and perfectly-planned articles for the Library
or Office yet produced. Admirably suited to the
necessities of professional and business men.
WALNUT TALL FRONT SINGLE
PEDESTAL WRITING! DESK.
Internal arrangements almost identical with tin;
description given above. Price only £l2 1>
jm
—
Dr a w i N(t- ±t c/ o - l
CABINETS.
Early English
CHIPPENDALE DESIGNS.
Newton & Lamb.
ť
ED STEADS, all sizes
Nickel-plated and Black and
Brass. Great variety.
Bedding. All descriptions
at lowest rates.
Ne w ton & La mb.
ŧ
SPRING MAT-
TRESSES (Woven
Wire), best make; also,
Spiral Spring.
Price, from 7s. 6d. each.
CHEAP FURNITURE.—Pine Tables, from
10s. ; Dining Tables, from 20s. ; Kitchen
Dressers, from 225. 6d.; Washstands, from 12s. 6d.;
Chests of Drawers, from 405.; Wardrobes, from
80s.; Cedar Oheffoniers, from 30s. ; Cedar Side-
boards, from £3 35.; Clothes Horses, from
Bs. (id. ; Writing Tables, with drawers, from 255.
i
CE
CHESTS.
ALL SIZES.
PRICES LOW.
NEWTON and LAMB.
ţ
JfJXCELSIOR
UPRIGHT
IMPROVED
REFRIGERATORS.
Various Sizes, from 455.
N
ewton and lam b.
FURNITURE and pianoforte
WAREHOUSEMEN,
CABINETMAKERS, UPHOLSTERERS
AND
BEDDING MANUFACTURERS.
Show Rooms and Manufactory ;
SPRING and O’CONNELL STREETS.


Building Sites, City of Perth, W.A. Plano
Intercolonial Investment Co., Limited, 96Bathurs
street, Sydney.
When next you bake try Pemell’s Snow-white Patent
Bolder- Flock, and your bread will be as white as snow.
Not a Bene ! In addition to their High Class old
Wines, Messrs. Hookings & Co., of 410 George-street, have
accepted the agency of the Australian Wine Company,
Limited, for their superior cheap wines.
Open Call Stock Exchange.
Opens EVERY EVENING- at Eight o’clock.
CALL ROOM and OFFICE:
Quong Tart’s Chambers,
139 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
MEMBERSHIP , £1 Is.
B. C. FRYER Manager.
L. H. NELSON Secretary.
Tricopheroos
FOR
THE HAIR
1801
fmrk Ulf.
An elegant, dress-
ing. exquisitely per
turned, removes all
impurities from the
scalp, prevents baldness and gray hair, and
causes the hair to grow Thick, Soft and
Beautiful. Infallible for curing eruptions
of the skin, diseases of the glands, muscles
and integuments, and relieving cuts, burns,
bruits, sprains, &c.
■Barry’s Pearl Cream
Imparts to the darkest skin a clear, natural
white, tinged with the faintest rose-blush. 1
It speedily removes wrinkles, freckles, sun
burn and tan, and mantles the faded cheek
with youthful bloom and beauty.'
BaiTy’g Hair Dye.
Put up in two forms, with and without
a preparation Without the preparation,
gradually colors the hair any shade desired,
from a light brown to a black With the
preparation, instantly colors the hair a na-
tural jet black the moment it is applied.
Cdution-None of these preparations gen-
uine without the trade mark of Bakclat
& Co , New York, affixed to each bottle.
ť
n
«AHUfA«TUR£R9
ft IMPORTERS Of
HATS CAPS &
438CE0RCE S t
3VDNEY 1
0/o/rouCe jLassetCe/v
dT
Branch :
6 7 8 GEORGE STREET,
BRICKFIELD HILL,
(Next to Craig and Aitken.)
LOONG SHAN TEA HOUSE
NOW OPEN.
Quozig Tart & CJo.’s
Q
U
o
N
G
T
A
R
T
C
O
M
P
A
N
Y
EXTENSIVE NEW PREMISES
(Nearly opposite Theatre Royal).
FIRST-CLASS' GRILLS,
As well as all kinds of Refreshments, may
be obtained from 7.30 a.m. to 11.30 p.m.
CUP OF DELICIOUS TEA.
ICED DRINKS OF ALL KINDS, &c.
The rooms are splendidly furnished and
fitted up. In addition to the large and
well - appointed Refreshment Rooms,
gentlemen will find on the Second Floor
Commodious and Comfortable Smoking
and Conversation Rooms, furnished with
Chess, Draughts, &c., &c.
TO THE LADIES.
On the First Floor will be found Nice
Private Room for Ladies, convenient for
Writing, Reading, &c., also Retiring
Rooms and Lavatory, with both hot and
cold water laid on. Inspection Invited.
a
u
o
N
G
T
A
R
T
C
O
M
P
A
N
Y
Finest Teas imported—Packets -Jib. and
upwards supplied. Orders promptly at-
tended to.
137 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
NTRY STOREKEEPERS, ETC.
A. M. MARKS & CO.,
-—lmporters o.f—
Furniture, Pianofortes, Glass, Earthenware,
CHINA, FANCY GOODS, ELECTRO-PLATE,
CIRAKS »V TOBACCONISTS SUNDRIES.
SOLE AGENTS FOR
Dawn Cigars and Salonica Turkish Cigarettes.
Special Novelties in all Lines for Christmas Trade.
Prices on Application to —
A. 3VT. Mlarlts jiz Go.,
Vickery’s Buildings, 74a Pitt Streeet, Sydney,
AND AT LONDON.
Telephone. No. 919.
Should write or call upon
&F
m
fT|. B. MODINI, Gunmaker, informs his Customers
W 8 and the Public in general that he has the largest
assortment of Firearms in the colony. Qualities and prices
to defy competition. Agent for the following celebrated
gunmakers J. Purdey & Sons, Ch. Boswell, John Rigby
and Co., Joseph Lang & Sons, Ch. Osborne & Co., Thomas
Bland & Son. A large assortment of various other makers
always on hand, viz., W. W. Greener, Scott, Webley,
Hollis & Sons, Riley and Oasiimobe. All goods will he
faithfully guaranteed at 602 George-street, Sydney.
Price list on application.
INDISPENSABLE JOE RADIES
AND ALL PERSONS
With a Delicate Shin!
you wish to Protect yourself against CHAPPED
HANDS and CRACKED SKJN, and to keep YOUR
COMPLEXION in good condition during the whole
year use
MOUSON’S
COCOA BUTTERSOAP
(Savon au beurre de Cacas.)
This celebrated Soap consists chiefly of Cocoa Butter, (ex-
tracted in the manufacture of Chocolate) which is THE
MILDEST EAT KNO WN, and possesses a wonderfully
healing and softening influence upon the Skin. The
beneficent properties of this product make themselves
apparent by the delicious creamy lather it produces,
rendering even the coarsest SKIN AS SOFT AS
VELVET.
Cocoa Butter Soap is a real skin-beautifler, and a balm to
young and old alike.
MOtTSON & CO., PERFUMERS & TOILET SOAP MANUFACTURERS,
FRANKFORT-ON-THE-MAINK.
LONDON ; 82 & 33 HAINSELL-ST., E.C. PARIS I 29 RUB RADZIERILE
Full guarantee for perfect purity is offered by the
sole Manufacturers, Mouson & Co.
JULIUS GOLDSCHMIDT & CO.,
231 CLARENCE-ST., SYDNEY,
SORE AGENTS FOR AUSTRALASIA.
Dr. westcott’s amenorrhcea
PILLS for Ladies, when taken for a few
days before, quickly correct all irregularities
from whatever cause arising ; 2s. 9d. and 4s. 6d.,
by post 3s. and ss. W. H. SOUL and CO., 190
Pitt-street, Sydney, Agents.
Cb,aff I Chaff ! Chaff!
ANOTHER NEW DEPARTURE, /t!
The CITY PRODUCE COMPANY
Having erected the most complete and extensive
Chaff-cutting Plant in New South Wales, are in a
position to supply a
Single Bag of Chaff at Wholesale Prices
for CASH.
Oaten Chaff, 4/6 per cwt."\
Mixed „ 3/6 per cwt. I
Oaten „ 4/6 per cwt. j
Mixed „ 3/6 per cwt. j
Quality-
Guaranteed.
Free delivery within the city. Horse-feed of all
descriptions of best quality at lowest prices for
Cash. One trial only is requested. We guarantee
to give satisfaction.
CITY PRODUCE CO.,
Hay Street, Haymarket, SYDNEY.
—THE—
Art Furnishing Warehouse.
BEARD, WATSON I CO.,
361 George Street, SYDNEY,
Direct attention to their Magnificent Stock of
Carpets, Floorcloths, Linoleums,
And other Floor Coverings, in the
NEWEST DESIGNS «V ARTISTIC COLOURINGS.
Art Decorations, Upholstery Work and
Window Draping a Speciality
All Orders executed by a Staff of Experienced
Workmen, and Special Attention given to the carry-
ing out of Customers’wishes with punctuality and
promptitude.
A. BOWMAN’S
LONDON MADE
Porpoise Hide Hoots
Are Reduced from 3Os. to 21s.
249 PITT ST., SYDNEY, Near Tattersall's.
Porpoise Hide Wears Twice as Long 1
as any other Leather.
They are noted all over London,
Birmingham and Liverpool.
London Fashions,
AND
Fresh Goods Every Fortnight.
Trade Supplied Wholesale at a Great Advantage.
THE
Wolseley Sheep-Shearing* Machine
PASTORALISTS are notified that, to avoid disappointment,
no time should be lost in Booking Orders for next Season.
Agents: J. H. GEDBES & CO.,
19 PHILLIP STREET, SYDNEY. *
ALLAN A. MARSHALL Sc CO.,
Engineers, Coppersmiths, Brass and Bell Foitndp.rs,
Finishers, Plumbers, Ship & General Smiths,
Gasfitters, Art & Medieval Metal Workers
ItOllF.lt SKATES (any make) with RItASS or WOODEN WHEELS.
Verity’s Gas Tires, Heaters and Ventilators at greatly Reduced Prices —11,000 Fires already in use.
Importers and Manufacturers of Diving Gear, Yacht and Boat Work of every description in
Iron or Brass, Ships’ Single and Double Action Valve Closets, Fire Hydrants, Hose and all appliance?,
m MIM I—l————llllM1 —n
Bon Accord Works, 9 Macquarie Place, Sydney.
THE
PLUM”
RAZOR.
HE pi
THE
“PLUM”
It.VZUIt.
WE recommend gentlemen who shave themselves to try the “ PLUM ” RAZOR. It is purely
Hollow Ground and NEVER requires Grinding and we guarantee each Razor for two
years. Set ready for use. Price, single Razor, 10s. Cd. ;or a pair of Razors, Black Pla.ndles, in
Strong Leather Case, £1 Is. In Ivory, single Razor, 15s. Pair in case, 30s, Send P. 0.0. Every
Razor sent by Registered Post. ±
f
CRAIG & AITKEN,
'“POTOSI” HAIRDRESSING SALOON,
680 GEORGE STREET SYDNEY.
Ask for the
Unequalled
“DAWN” 3d. CIGAR,
Of all
Tobacconists,
V
Store
AND
Hotel
KEEPERS.
Wholesale Agents: A. M. MARKS & Co., 74a PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
V
DAWSON'S
Sole Agents for Australasia
VAUGHAN, ROGERS & CO.,
(Opposite G.P.0.)
< 108 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
p
E
R
F
E
C
T
I
O
N
WHISKY.
SUB-AGENTS WANTED
IN THE
PRINCIPAL CENTRES
THROUGHOUT AUSTRALASIA.
„ THE WONDERFUL
VICTORIA” ORGANETTE,
wifi
ilia!
Iho Most Marvellous Musical Instrument in
the World.
A £3 Instrument for Only £1 15s.
We are the Sole Proprietors of this WONDERFUL and
FIRST-CLASS ORGANETTE. It is a Reed Instrument and is
constructed on the same principle as an Organ with Bellows,
and Full Sized Roods. The music consists of perforated sheets!
which are put into the Organette. furnishing cither Finished
8010 Performance, a Rich Accompaniment to the Voice, or
Valuable Orchestral Effects. They are marvels of Musica*.
Invention, and combine in themselves al I the principles upon
which automatic Organs, Organettes, &c.,are now being made,
requiring no skill in the performer. Any child old enough to
use its hands intelligently can play, and the Range of Music ia
Absolutely Unlimited.
We wish to introduce one of these Organettes in every town
and parish throughout the Australian Colonies, and in order to
do so speedily have concluded to sell a Limited Number to the
readers of this paper at ONLY Al 15s. each, but your order must
be received on or before May Ist, 1890, as we shall place the
O.rganette at A 3 each after that date. We will positively not
sell more than ONE ORGANETTE to any one person at this
reduced price, as we only make this unprecedented offer to
introduce this First-Class Organette throughout the world,
well knowing that after one is received in a neighbourhood wa
will sell several at Our Regular Price.
We are the Sole Proprietors of THE WONDERFUL
'‘VICTORIA” ORGANETTE, and you must order direct from
us, or through our Authorised Agents Remember, the Won-
derful “Victoria” Organettes are Large and Powerful
Instruments, built in the most durable style, highly polished
and decorated in Gold ; the Reeds being so powerful that they
produce sufficient volume of music for the Chapel, Parlour,
Lodge, Ball Room or Picnic Party. There is nothing about
them to get out of order; in fact, they produce a richer and
sweeter sound after having been used a few years. For Home
Entertainments they are Unsurpassed.
The Illustration will give you but a faint idea of Size
and Finish of this beautiful instrument, but we will return the
money and pay carriage to any one who is not perfectly satisfied
after receiving it. It Sings its Own Praises. With each
Organette we enclose a selection of popular tunes Free, and pack
all in a strong box. If yon are in Melbourne at any time, call
on us, or if you have friends living here, you can request them
to call and purchase for you. If you wish to act as an agent
for us, send AT ONCE and secure the agency for your section.
You Can Easily Sell the Instruments at A 3 to £4 Each.
Hundreds of Testimonials Received. Send money by Registered
Letter, Money Order, Draft, or Postal Note. •
ggag” COUPON.— I This Coupon will entitle the holder to
one of the Wonderful “VICTORIA” OR6ANETTES,
provided it is sent With £1 16s. and order, not later than
May Ist. 1890, No order will he accepted without
this Coupon, unlessfull price, £3, is sent. £llss. includes
all charges, for carriage by railway, steamboat, coach,
or carrier, all over Australia.
(Signed) The Victoria Manufacturing and Importing Co.
Address or call on the Victoria Manufacturing
9.nd Importing Co., 356 Collins St., Melbourne.
mi
“ They fitperfectly, and arc
far superior to all the other
( Corsets 1 have tried.”
(Signed) Marie Rose.
THE
Y*
PATENT
Diagonal Seam Corset
Will not Split in the Seams
nor Tear in the Fabric.
Exquisite Model, Perfect
Comfort, Guaranteed Wear.
Beware of worthless imita-
tions. Every genuine Y& N
Corset stamped “Y& N Patent
Diagonal Seam Corset, No. 116,” in oval.
THREE GOLD MEDALS!
Sold by all Drapers and Ladies’ Outfitters.
CHUBB AND PRAEGER,
EMPIRE PHOTOGRAPHIC GALLERIES
BEALE'S, CHAMBERS.
482 Sc 484 G-eorge Street, opposite the Markets.
FOR High-class PORTRAITS the Sydney
Public are respectfully invited to pay a
Visit to the above Galleries, which are now ad-
mitted to be the Finest and most Complete Set of
Apartments devoted to Photography in the Aus-
tralian Colonies.
Note the Small Charge now made for Photos
of the Best Quality and Finish.
TAKE ELEVATOR
She most Delicious Sauce in the World.
YORKSHIRE RELISH
aim
in
OK
y
E
0,000,000 Settles
' sold annually.
Enriches Hot
Joints, Stows.
See.
Doliciousto Chops,
Steaks, Fish,&c.
With soup it is
charming 1 .
Agrees with the
most delicate
person.
Hakes cold meat
a luxury.
Hakes the plain-
est viands pal-
atable.
The daintiest
dishes more
delicious.
A great addition
to Cheese.
Epicures pro-
nounce it the
host Sauce,
Fears no com-
petition. Amar-
vel of cheapness
and enterprise.
Suitable to the
invalid’s cup of
Broth.
Beware of colour-
able imitations.
H.R.H; the Prince o 1
Wales has recently ex.
‘pressed himself as highly
pleased with it.
SOLD EVERYWHERE.
Wholesale Agents TILLOCK & Co., Kent
and Liverpool Streets, Sydney. NS.W


HOT UTEHTIiER.
To counteract the enervating, relaxing, and evi
effects of the heat and depressing nature of the
climate in this country dur ng the summer months
no remedy has ever appeared before the public to
equal or even that would bear comparison with
Clements’ Tonic,
it prevents fever, malaria and ague, keeps up
the appetite, assists digestion and assimilation,
stimulates the stomach, liver, kidneys, and bowels ;
thus preventing I?ver and kidney disease, and
warding off their unpleasant symptoms, as head-
ache, constipation, idles, gout, rheumatism, dropsy,
apoplexy, &c. The summer is the time when
Clements’ Tonic is the medecine par excellence
for the people. It prevents the relaxation and
depression so prevalent in the hot weather in
these latitudes • it enriches the blood, aids
perspiration, and restores all lost nerve-power;
is the only reliable anti-febrifuge and pick-me-up
prepared in the colonies, and can be depended
ui)on to do c/oo:l and cure disease. The action of
Clements’ Tonic is certain, sure, and prompt;
relief is felt immediately after taking the first
dose; it acts direct on the seat of disease and
cures the cause, and then the effects of that cause
cease. Most other remedies offered are prepared
with a view of treating the symptoms, con-
sequently, as soon as the effect of the medicine
passes away the trouble returns, and the. patient
wants another bottle of medicine. This may be
very good for the maker of the remedy (?) but it is
not at all satisfactory to the patient. Clements’
Tonic positively, effectually, and permanently
cures ; it does not only relieve, like most of the
narcotic mixtures sold, but radically effects a cure;
and if the patient only avoids the source from
which he or she contracted the illness in the
first place, a relapse is impossible. Moreover,
Clements’ Tonic does not constringe the gastric
vessels of the stomach or cause indigestion, and
will not injure nor discolour the teeth. We shall be
glad to enter into particulars with any corres-
pondents who like to address us at Newtown.
Sydney, personally or by post.
THOMAS GARRETT, ESQ., M.P.
Minister of Lauds),
suffered from
Weakness! Indigestion!
AND
Poor Appetite!
he procured
CLEMENTS’ TONIC,
and gracefully- acknowledges the benefit
he derived.
Sydney, October 18, 1880.
Dear Sir, I have used Clements’ Tonic with Very
Great Advantage. It is very Stimulating, and a
powerful aid to appetite and digestion.—Yours truly,
THOS. GARRETT.
If you arc a sufferer follow Mr. Garrett’s lead, take
Clements' Tonic and you will derive the same benefit.
"Thought his case beyond the Power of
Medicine.”
Kangaroo Valley, N.S.W., April 3, ’B9.
Dear Sir. 1 have very much pleasure in bearing witness
lo the great \alue of Clements’ Tonic in cases of
LASSITUDE, nervousness and constitutional
DEBILITY GENERALLY. For more than 12 months I
was a martyr to extreme lassitude, loss of appetite, sleep-
lessness, and their concomitant train of physical troubles,
so much so that I feared I should have to abandon my
profession as a journalist, writing being particularly
irksome and laborious to me. I tried several advertised
tonics (?) with little or no good result, and began to think
my case beyond the power of medicine to cure. However,
seeing your Tonic advertised in some of my Exchanges,
1 concluded to try it as a “dernier resort;” and I am
pleased to say the result was most satisfactory. After
taking one bottle I found my appetite much improved ; 1
could sleep more soundly, and felt refreshed next morn-
ing. I continued the medicine, taking in all six large
bottles, and gradually all my distressing symptoms dis-
appeared. I now feel myself stronger than ever, and as
near perfect health as a man who has to bear the strain oi
constant literary work can expect to be. I can confidently
recommend Clements’ Tonic to all persons suffering
from loss of nerve force through sickness or mental over-
work, and am most happy to support my testimony with
my signature.—And remain, dear Sir, Yours faithfully,
P. JEFFERSON WALLACE,
Editor and Proprietor “ Kangaroo Valley Pioneer.”
Gave him new Health and Strength.”
75 King Street, Sydney, March 19, ’B9.
Dear Sir, —Kindly send me two more bottles of
Clements’ Tonic and permit me to express my thanks
and gratitude at the results obtained by taking two large
bottles. I had had a great amount of business worry to
contend against, which, together with the long hours I had
stuck to it, completely undermined my constitution, and
made me fee! very tired, weak and ill, my nerves being
quite shattered. 1 was so nervous that the accidental
slamming of a door would cause me to start violently, my
heart would beat very rapidly, and T would break out in a
profuse perspiration, afterwards having a sensation of
extreme weakness, lasting for some hours ; my sleep at
night was disturbed ; 1 awoke in the morning with head-
ache and aching limbs, and quite unrefreshed. I had no
appetite, no strength, and no inclination to work, and was
completely run out. I waspersuaded by your advertise-
ments to try Clements’ Tonic, and am a different man
ever since ; it gave me new health and strength, increased
my appetite, and made me relish my food ; 1 increased in
flesh, I lost all nervous feelings, and now feel stronger
than ever, and am glad to bear testimony to the value of
your wchderful remedy. Yours, &c., W. D. BRAHAM.
When influential men like these allow their names to
appear in endorsement of a medicine, it proves, beyond all
question, the bona tides of that preparation, it you are
still sceptical you can write to all or any and they will
answer you : No other medicine can show such proof
although there are scores of counterfeits on the market,
it rests with the public to guard itself against imposture.
Only meritorious articles are imitated and pirated, that is
why so many substitutes for Clement’s Tonic are on
sale. Such imitation is the greatest proof of the reliability
of Clements’ Tonic.
Sold Everywhere.
To our Patrons.
Some Chemists, &c.. being so blind to their
own interests that they do not stock this line.
I will supply it direct at the following rates,
packed free on rail or steamer:
Half-doz. Pint (4s. 6d. i Bottles for 255„ or
One doz. do. do. 455.
Exchange must be added to intercolonial and country
cheques, and freight where goods have to be sent by
steamer. Clements’ Tonic is a genuine article and
meets with patronage by all classes, always gives satis-
faction. Pirates only imitate, they cannot compete
with it.
F. M. CLEMENTS. NEWTOWN
Z333.Z>orta,zrb WTotice.
ANDREW KING & CO.,
Wholesals Soft Goods Importers and Warehousemen,
FLINDERS STREET, MELBOURNE,
Opposite Hobson's Bay Hallway Station.
As announced, this old established Wholesale Warehouse will be shortly thrown open to the
g ilend public as the
Modern Family Warehouse.
It is the intention of Andrew King- & Co. to secure the confidence of the public by selling
tbeir goods at such prices, and by giving such value, that the goods will be their best medium of
advertisement.
,lt shall,a 1 so always be their endeavour to avoid exaggerated statements, and they shall see that
there are no exaggerated charges added to the wholesale prices to prevent the public being supplied
in every department of drapery on the basis of “ Manufacturer's Cost.”
Andrew King- & C l . are enabled to offer their present extensive stuek of general drajiery at
sudi prices as must command the confidence of all who appreciate good value.
THE STUCK WILL BE FOUND TO CONTAIN:—
Manchester Goods (All Classes), Dress Goods,
Silks, Fancy Goods, Ribbons, Straws, &c->
Woollens, Ready-Made Clothing,
Hosiery, Underclothing, Umbrellas, Haberdashery,
Carpets. Rugs. Mats. Linoleums, Floorcloths, &c., &c., &c-
Further Particulars at a Later Date.
ANDEE W KING & CO.,
WHOLESALE IMPORTERS and SOFT GOODS WAREHOUSEMEN.
THE MODERN FAMILY WAREHOUSE.
tatv,.
11 1 '\,
i! L
SUL-I.
22
jl
i- i
Bd
Hill t . 2 I
Kvi'JPli, U
«i«
X-3B
age afeg
or.iio piiofo-tNC. ca, g onioct-SJ. stann
TRe; Oxford Hotel, Street, Sydney.
iT. THORPE ... ... ... PropKiKTOK.
JONES’ SEWING MACHINES
FOR THE BOOT AND TAILORING TRADES.
The Best Manufacturing Machines in Existence*
Now Perfected, the New No. 3 and No. 4 Machines on an Entirely new System.
Co.,
STOCK JUST LA.UTDITrG.
Farleig 1 Jn, KTettlielm, &
TANNERS AND LEATHER MERCHANTS,
16 x YORK x STREET, x SYDNEY
. Solc Agents for the above for New South Wales and Queensland *
(x)
ALSO Impellers of l!e(|iusites for (he BOOT MANUFACTLTIINf} thahv . , ,
1-Ml’ul:tLl> I -:vrilEl!S. ; arid of (he following sTrmt ‘ Link■
llliirkliic. Xannerß’ Tools and Materials. Indents Executed S VaCo!ra*lc feS'’ >H ‘’
any.
ihlnn
j Medical.
DR. RICHARDS.
MS®
o; w
consu
hr RICH ARPS >'
o
“1
: *j
UHJaMTDRi
This eminent Specialist, Founder, and Chief
Surgeon of the long-established and favourably-
known Dispensary that now bears his name, re-
ceived his medical education in the leading colleges
and hospitals of Europe. He has devoted a life-
time to the study of
PRIVATE, NERVOUS, AND SKIN
DISEASES.
He has by profound research thoroughly investi-
gated their origin, traced their deadly sources and
insidious dissemination, and ascertained the surest
and safest methods by which they may be eradi-
cated, with these widely recognised qualifications
combined with unswerving faithfulness to Ins
patients, he has during his practice, extending
over FORTY YEARS, attained a well-deserved
pre-eminence in their treatment. His practice
embraces dssases which probably cause more un-
happiness than any other class of troubles that
alllict mankind.
YOUNG MEN
who suffer from the results of early follies, trans-
gressions or excesses of more nature age, bladder
difficulties, a whitish or dark ropy sediment in
the writer, accompanied I)}* slight burning or
smarting sensation, Headaches, Drowsiness during
the day, circles round the eyes, Giddiness,
irregularity of the bowels, specks before the eyes,
bashfulness, discontentedness, weakness or pains
in the back, Liver or kidney complaints, dreams,
buzzing noises in the ears and head, pimples, a
fear that something dreadful is about to happen,
weak stomach, yellow' or blood-shot eyes, impure
blood, hasty, uncontrollable temper, hacking
cough, who cannot marry, nervousness in society,
wakefulness, palpitation of the heart, general
weakness, and other symptoms which lead to in-
sanity and death, should consult him, for he has
mastered these difficulties. On receipt of 6d. in
stamps he will send secure from observation in a
plain wrapper, postage
FREE, A LARGE CLOTH-BOUND
BOOK.
Showing plainly how all diseases of the private or
nervous system may be cured thoroughly and per-
manently without unnecessary expence. This
book will prove a valuable companion, and even
though you be perfectly well its general inform-
tion and prescription may assist you in restoring
some poor friend to health even after his case has
been pronounced incurable by his medical at-
tendant.
ONE POUND IS SUFFICIENT TO
SEND
for Remedies necessary for the cure of NER-
VOUS DEBILITY. Should you require medical
treatment, as procrastination is sometimes dan-
gerous, it would be advisable for you to sit down
quietly in your chamber and write to the doctor,
detailing every experienced symptom. Ho will
on receipt of such a letter, write you, promptly
and courteously, a candid and straightforward
oponion of your case. If you do not think you
understand the case, send for his famous medical
work, the price of which is but sixpence ; enclosed
in the volume will be found a list of carefully-pre-
pared questions, which will, in all probability,
assist you materially in describing your ailment.
Dr. Richards uses nothing but the purest remedies,
and never prescribes mercury under any circum-
stances. The moment letters are carefully per-
used and answered they are destroyed by fire,
and patients may rest assured that their cases
will remain a secret between the doctor and
themselves. Dr. Richards has successfully treated
nearly 25,000 cases since coming to Australia, and
has permission from at least 10,000 persons to
show their written evidence of his success. All
communications should be addressed
Dr. RICHARDS,
7 Spring Street
(OH i’ilt .Street North)
8 Y D _tST JU Y~.
Bo sure to mention this paper when writing
CONSULTATION FELL.
ROOM FOR ONE MORE. —AMMER.


Beal a & Co/s Ew Waro&onß8 > »
m% aw show-rooms ash wa rehouses ;
483 & 484 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Something New in Sewing Machines !
THE BEALE PATENT MACHINE.
The restless march of invention has enabled us
to bring before the public improvements of im-
mense value, to some short account of which we
beg your attention for a few moments. Our call-
ing is to relieve the home-mother of all that may
weary her in sewing, and to make the same
throughout a pleasure. That we have during the
last ten years succeeded in so doing, scores of
thousands will testify. And to-day we are supply-
ing a machine whose range of work is absolutely
complete, transcending the hopes and dreams of
years. The construction and form are such as to
place it altogether above and beyond competition,
and for the truth of which assertions, as of the
following, we humbly request that your own eyes
may be the judges.
THE IMPROVED HIGH ARM. A great
desideratum with ladies has been the raising of the
arm of the machine, so as to allow the goods to be
sewn to pass freely underneath. This had to be
accomplished without increasing the weight of the
machine. In fact, the Beale runs with wonderful
ease and rapidity. It is almost silent, all clicking
sounds having been obviated. As is well-known,
a good test of the finish of any mechanism is its
silence when in rapid motion.
ALAR GER RANGE OE APPLIANCES is
provided than with any other machine. Samples
of work performed upon these we are prepared at
all times to submit, whilst an elaborate Instruction
Book is supplied, which is alone sufficient to
explain their uses and their applicability to every
requirement
NICKEL-PLATING—In our climate the
exposed parts of the machine, and the appliances,
need to be protected from rust. We have, at
considerable expense, added a handsomely nickeled
wheel, nickeled plates, screws, appliances, treadle-
bar and cones, heightening the appearance. These
improvements also tend largely to preserve tin
parts. This nlatinsr is imperishable
A MUCH LARGER DRAWER has taken tin
place of the cramped and elumsy contrivance ol
former years. When closed it securely fastens tin
cover, and is provided with a look and key.
THE WOODWORK is handsomer than ever,
being always of selected and inlaid Walnut. All
of it has been exposed for weeks in the drying-
room of the Factory to a temperature reaching a.‘
high as 170 degrees ; thus when kept out of damj
and sunshine, it will endure our most trying
climates.
What is there Special abend it?
A SELF-THREADING SHUTTLE of solid
steel, saving the trouble of threading by the end
of the cotton. It has an excellent tension, i,-
strong and simple.
THE BOBIN WINDER is a marvel of in
genuity, winding and guiding the cotton by itself,
as evenly as upon the real whence it came, and
stopping of its own accord when the bobin is full.
The baby’s tiny clothing, upon which mothers love t<
display their choicest handiwork; the boy’s tweed suit,
the drawing-room carpet, may all be stitched by the won
derkd BEALE Machine. Examples of all kinds of sewing
required in dresses, millinery, underclothing, tailoring and
upholstery will be shown and explained at our offices free
of charge.
With the wonderful BEALE Machine, whether for hand
or foot use, you can hem any width, make double seams
0” fells, braid, stitch with chenille, Berlin wool or gold
cord, and such like for fancy work; you may make a
pretty lace stitch, tuck ever so finely, bind dresses, coats,
or carpets; sew on trimmings without guiding, make
frilling, ruffling, or ruching ; quilt, weave your own braid
with any combination of colours, and stitch it on at the
same time; make thick woollen door mats, embroidered
antimacassars, window curtains, and so forth; you can
easily and rapidly perform the fashionable shirring or
gathering so popular for sleeves, bodies, or skirts of dresses
with an appliance supplied gratis; lay the small cords in
hoods and stays; do large cording; gather with or without
a band, and generally do all kinds of straight sewing upon
any material whatever. You can darn upon any woven
goods, and do crewel work. You may make button and
eyelet holes, do overcasting, make herring-bone stitch
upon any materials. This work is absolutely unique, and
can only be accomplished upon the BEALE Patent
Machine.
Any of these performances will be show at our simps
at any time. The BEALE Patent makes a lock-stitch
which cannot ravel, yet by a momentary alteration the
sewing can be done so as to rip from end to end if desired.
This peculiarity is sometimes useful when children’s clothes
are intended to be altered.
We have a special word for husbands: When the day’s
business is over, and the evening meal is finished, the
wife—and perhaps the sister or daughter—sits down to her
sewing. With her hands alone she cannot, as aforesaid,
do anything like the whole of the work required. In a
corner of the room is perhaps an old-fashioned machine,
with which she may, by hard driving, occasionally stitch,
with a noise like a sausage-machine, a simple straight
seam ; but that is no great help. She ought to be able to
do ALL the work with it, short of stitching on buttons,
Which is a trifle. And we have known some instances
where the lady of the house is anxious to obtain a flrst-
I'lass machine, that which will be the greatest of aH helps
to her, but the husband demurs on the score of expense.
Why, it is the only article of the household furnishing
winch will ever return you any part of the cost! If the
lady will use it, it MUST earn far more than the half-a-
crown a week necessary to purchase it. On one little
garment she wall save that sum, so that in addition to in-
creased comfort your household expenses will not be en-
larged, but ought to be diminished, by the possession of a
BEALE PATENT MACHINE. How often do we waste
money upon really useless knick-knacks, or upon need-
lessly expensive articles and indulgences? The Machine
should far more than pay for itself during the time you
are clearing it off, and it will then become your own, earn-
ing or saving money as before. Is it not fairly to be
called a PROFITABLE INVESTMENT?
Cash or Easy Terms. Price Lists and Samples
Free hy Post.
Beale & Company,
482 A. 484 GEORGE STREET. SYDNEY
Ur from our Branches and Travellers everywhere.
Easiness Announcements.
Comtoination Buggy
Is the latest thing on wheels, and can be used as a
B'iJGa-Y, DOG- CAST, OIR CABEIAGE.
A;i a one seat Buggy with ample room for two people.
<7
/\
X\
■-,:X
As a Dog Cart to carry fotu
As a two seated Buggy to carry four.
A most useful and valuable vehicle for a variety of purposes.
WILLIAM FLEMING, 22 A 24 Clarence St., Sydney.
Cold Medal
Acknowledged
ilhe Best
LTCHTNER & CO.,
SYDNEY:
318 GEORGE STREET
BRISBANE
9 ELIZABETH STREET
PHOTOGRAPHIC
STOCK-
IMPORTERS.
K
s,
k* )
1
W BEND FOR OUR NEW ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE m
—or—
CAMERAS, LENSES, CHEMICALS, MAGIC LANTERNS,
Anri nil .Vrtiolos appertaining to PHOTOGRAPHY.
):(
OHEA.r OUTFITS.
Business Announcements.
THE WINNING NUMBERS.
BRITISH PLATE
<^rSHEET CLASS,
c r
v
CD
yzr.
cr>
merchants!
o ft
rn DJ
5C o
2 °
m
.
m
:v
c v
•3
£
r"- 1
f,
■a
, w .
V'ouwfl?^
ARTISTIC
HOME DECORATORS.
ŧ
Eucalypte. OILSS.
dt'M* )
¥
m
g ?
Victory Oi'.TMENT<a
THE TREE OF LIFE .
MIRE
The only pure Eucalypte iii the World,
AW ARDKJ) Gold Medal Adelaide Jubiler
Exhibition. First Prize Great Centennia
Exhibition, Sydney. The only known CURE for
.Asthma, Bronchitis, Consumption, Pleurisy,
Colds, Coughs, and all affections of the C hest and
Lungs; also, for Gout, Rheumatism, Sciatica,
etc. Our VICTORY OINTMENT stands with-
out a rival for Bad Legs, Bad Breasts, Cancers,
Tumours, and skin diseases of all kinds. Also,
manufacturers of the Eucalypte Pills, Eucalypte
Bair Restorer, Eucalypte Soap, and our world-
famed Eucalypte Roney is the best preparation
befoie the public for young Children and aged
people. Also, makers of the Eucalypte Lozenges
for the Voice. Manufactory— Cootamondra.
Sydney Wholesale Depot—2sl Elizabeth Street
Posted to any part of the Colonies. Sold Every-
where. Beware of Imitations.
HUNGARIAN
NATURAL APERIENT WATER.
For Constipation, Indlgostioi
t
urn
ut,
Stomach & Liver Complaints
OF ALL CHEMISTS IN AUSTRALASIA)
The Natural Mineral Waters of
[STATE
VICHY
SPRINGS.)
GRANDE-GRILLE.—For Affections of th«
Liver, Biliary Organs, &C.
CELESTIN S> —For the Kidneys, Gravel, Gout
Rheumatism, Diabetes, &Q.
HOPITAL.—For Stomach Complaints.
HAUTERIYE. — An excellent Table Wat**,
OF ALL CHEMISTS IN AUSTRALASIA.
ows
B
EMBROCATION
""'X j
-
i
: 'WU.
r LV'"T-''
iM.
\ev/ery n where(l \h
ţ


et READ THIS! Two Pounds* (£2) worth of these preparations sent free to any part of the colony.
Vnnstrong’s Citron Saline, for cooling and purifying the
blood. An aperient effervescing salt. 2s; 18s doz.
Armstrong’s Blood Purifier or Anti-Scorbutic—a valuable
remedy where the blood has become vitiated through
residence in hot climates, with usual consequences of
bad water, deficient vegetable diet. 2s; 18s doz.
Armstrong’s Compound Sarsaparilla with Dandelion, lodide
of Potash, &0., for allimpuritiesof the blood. 2s; 20s doz.
Armstrong’s Eye Lotion for Blight and other inflammatory
affections of the eyes. The proprietor has received
numerous testimonials for cures effected by this lotion
when all other means had failed. Is ;8s doz.
Armstrong’s Sugar-coated Anti-bilious Pills. An infallible
remedy in cases of indigestion and other complaints
arising from an inactive liver. Is; 8s doz.
Armstrong’s Diarrhoea Mixtures gives instant relief in this
troublesome complaint. 2s; 18s doz.
Armstrong’s Gout and Rheumatic Mixture. For gout,
rheumatism, sciatica, &c., &o. 8s 6d; 36s doz.
Armstrong’s Cough Elixir. An Immediate cure for colds,
coughs, influenza, Ac. 2s; 18s doz.
Armstrong’s Podophyllin Pills, for liver complaints, im-
purities of the blood, &o. Is; 8s doz.
Armstrong’s Phosphorous Pills, for Nervous and General
Debility, &c. Is ;8s doz.
Armstrong’s Anodyne liniment (or Pain Paint) for bruises,
sprains, rheumatic pains, Ac. 2s; 18s doz.
Armstrong’s Cough Balsam, for chronic pulmonary affec-
tions and lung diseases. 2s; 18s doz.
Armstrong’s Golden Eye Ointment, for blight and all
diseases of the eyes. Is Gd; 13s doz.
Armstrong’s celebrated Ointment for Piles. 2s;
18s doz.
Armstrong’s Iron and Quinine Tonic, for loss of appetite,
Nervousness, General Debility, Neuralgia, &c. 2s.
Armstrong’s 156 Mixture for discharges. 3s Od.
Armstrong’s Pepsine Bismuth and Nux Vomica, for
ohronio Indigestion. 3s 6d &ss6d ; 309 & 58s doz. .
Armstrong’s Quinine Wine. A most reliable brain and
nerve tonic. 2s Cd | 20s doz.
Armstrong’s Podophylhn Seidlitz Powders. A mild and
pleasant aperient. Is fid; 15s doz.
Armstrong’s “ Arabian Ointment.” For healing all sores,
old wounds, burns, etc. (in pots). Is; 8s doz.
Armstrong’s Corn Paint apd Solvent, for painlessly
removing corns, bunions, warts, &o. Is; 8s doz.
Armstrong’s Toothache Drops and Carbolic Nervine, for
immediate cure of toothache. Is; 8s doz.
Armstrong’s Resin, Carbolic, Zinc, Blue, White and Red
Peroipitate Ointments (in boxes). 6d ;5s doz.
Armstrong’s Dandruff Pomade, for eradicating scurf, dan-
druff, &c., from the hair. Is ;8s doz.
Afsistrong’s Arabian Hair Renewer, for restoring grey
hair to its natural colour. Is Cd ; 12s doz.
Armstrong’s Arabian Insect Powder. 9d ; 6s doz.
Armstrong’s Indelible Ink, for writing on linen, silk, and
muslin, Is; 8s per doz.
Armstrong’s Lime Juice and Glycerine. A valuabU
preparation for the hair. Is &2s; 8s & 18s doz.
Armstrong’s Transparent Cement (Oohesulihe) for china
glass, wood, leather, &c. 6d &Is ; 53 &8s doz.
Armstrong’s Carbolic Tooth Powder antiseptic. Is; 8s doz.
Armstrong’s Disinfectant, Carbolised Powder (in tins),
for drains, etc. 9d &Is6d ; 6s 6d & 12s doz.
Armstrong’s Sore Back Ointment forhorses. 2s; & 18s doz.
Armstrong’s Carbolic Dressing, for cuts and wounds
among stock. Is &Is6d ; 8s & 15s doz.
Armstrong's Blistering Ointment - the best remedy tot
splints, curbs, etc. Is 6d ; 13s doz.
Armstrong’s Worm and Condition Powalers, for horses
(in tills). 6d &Is ; 5s &8s doz.
Armstrong’s Gold Paint, Copper, Silver and Green Bronzes,
for decorating your home ornaments, statuary, 4co.—
all ready mixed. 6d ; 8s doz.
INVENTED, MANUFACTURED and SOLD ONLY by H. C. ARMSTRONG, George Street NOETH (Near Circular Quay), SYDNEY.
Trusses, Belts, Supports, Elastic Stockings, Knee Caps, etc., at English Wholesale Cost. The Largest Stork in Sydney.
FOR DRUGS, CHEMICALS, PATENT MEDICINES and DRUGGISTS’ SUNDRIES, SEND FOR SPECIAL PRICE LIST (POSTED FREE).
A Wonderful Eemedy-
MARSHALL’S TONIC NERVINE
Is now Universally Acknowledged to be a wonderful
Remedy for Nervous and General Debility, Nervous
Prostration, Torpidity of the Liver, Indigestion, Palpit-
ation of the Heart, Nervous Headache, Diabetes, Lassitude,
Impaired Nutrition, Neuralgia, Hypochondria, Loss of
Energy, and Appetite, Female Complaints, Dizziness
Noises in the Head and Ears, Loss of Vital Power, Aloholic
Craving, Premature Decline, Impoverished Blood, Im-
paired Sight and Memory, Consumption in its early stages,
Effects of Youthful Indiscretions, Mania, and all diseased
conditions of the system preceding from Deficiency of
Nerve Force. A few doses speedily afford relief, whilst a
course effects a permanent cure. Innumerable instances
emphatically testify to the truth of this statement.
Thousands of testimonials invite the afflicted to test it for
themselves.
Each Drop is Worth, a Drop of Gold.
There is no remedy like Marshall’s Tonic Nervine for
Female Complaints! Every female should have a
bottle ready at hand, because for Irregularities, etc.,
it surpasses all others. As the nervous system is the
main-spring of human vigor and healthful regularity,
so where this complicated organism is deranged, Marshall’s
Tonic Nervine acts with a precision and curative effect
like the day spring dispersing the shades of night. The
whole organic system which depends upon the nerves for
its streams of electric force is recuperated and renewed
with this Great Vitaliser. The muscles rebound with the
energy of youth, appetite and healthful condition follow.
The skin becomes bright and clear, and the winter of
disease is made summer by the glorious sun of health.
Thousands of restored patients everywhere gladly support
the'forcible truth of these assertions, and one trial will
render certainly doubly sure.
Marshall’s Tonic Nervine
Is sold by all Chemists and Storekeepers, and is
ONLY PREPARED BY
MARSHALL BROTHERS
410, George Street, Sydney.
N.B.—ln consequence of spurious imitations of “Tonic
Nervine,” which are calculated to deceive the public,
Marshall Bros, have to request that purchasers see that
the Label on every bottle bears their signature, thus—
without which no bottle is genuine. Ask for Marshall’s
Tonic Nervine and see that you get it. Trade mark:
“Tonic Nervine.”
k
Sf
wcru
TO YOTJKTG MEKT.
DR. FLETCHER’S
TREATISE ON NERVOUS DISEASES, THEIR CAUSE,
SYMPTOMS, TREATMENT, AND CURE.
rpHE directions contained in this little treatise will be
found of immense benefit to the sufferer ; and if these
directions are observed during'the early stages of Nervous
or Sexual Debility, No Medicines will he required, as, by
observing the directions given, the patient can Cure Him-
self.
This admirable little treatise is specially written to
show a method of counteracting the evil effects of indis-
cretions in early life—overwork, irregularity in eating or
drinking, &c. It is the result of much study and long
and successful experience in the treatment of diseases,
and contains a fund of useful information to every suf-
ferer from the following complaints, viz. Nervous
Debility, Dizziness, Specks before the Eyes, Pains in the
Back, Defective Memory, loss of Will Power, Loss of
Energy, Spermatorrhoea, Bashfulness, Discontentedness,
Constipation, Liver and Kidney Derangements, Atrophy,
Impotence, Impure Blood, Foul Taste in Mouth, Palpita-
tion of Heart, Wakefulness, Despondency, Excessive Ner-
vousness, Inability to Marry, Premature Decay, and other
symptoms experienced by nervous sufferers.
All Should Send for this Little Treatise.
If the complaint is of loner standing and requires
medicine, Dr. Fletcher will (.LARANTEE TO CURE
ANY CASE OF NERVOUS or SEXUAL DEBILITY
with ONE COURSE OF MEDICINES LASTING FIVE
WEEKS, and will send with medicines A WRITTL.
GUARANTEE to cure same or return the monies paid.
Dr. Fletcher’s treatment is both simple and effective,
and within the reach of the poorest. It is unlike any
other, and with it he has cured over 25,000 patients, and
invites patients to investigate hie statements by verifying
the testimonials published in his treatise. The treatise
will be forwarded on receipt of two stamps to cover
postage.
CONSULTATION BY LETTER, FREE.
Address in first instance —
DR. h. EWART FLETCHER,
Box 1417, G.P.O.
Sydney, N.S.W.
Private address—Clonmel House, Waverley, Sydney.
Remember, all cases undertaken, guaranteed, and a
signed agreement given, which provides that NO COST
be incurred by the patient if a cure is not effected.
VARICOCELE RADICALLY CURED WITHOUT
OPERATION.
Mention this Paper.
DA.KT. SXJLLIVAKT
(Late of Brisbane Caf<s),
Has bought MATTERSON’3 HOTEL, opposite
Lassetters, (Jeorge-street.
Extensive alterations and improvements just
completed. Recollect HAN’S OLH RLPHIA-
riON for the best brands in the market.
DAN. SULLIVAN
Has a nice cold collation with salad, between one
and two o'clock everyday.
POTOSI HAIRDRESSING SALOON
nine: first class assistants.
Largest in the Southern Hemisphere.
AGENTS FOR THE CELEBRATED “PLUM” RAZOR. CLIPPERS SHARPENED.
Razors ground and set. Trade Supplied with every Requisite. Competent assistants engaged for Town and Country.
• ? ’ *£> V, ! -“- ■ _;•s”§ < $PwP^-‘r jrfpSfc-
*£ «$&
jfc f i.«iS5. i s I.
±^t. -<? u
iv:
«■■ ■
■
.
MPi
-m
msrnsm ks®sißS
:‘V:'v 'V
:>-■ :■ j
: -
Sgfiis
as
3
*iSss»fy ISsi#
f
• --—■:
ft#
-
&SSSS
.rnmm
immm
..’. ■ * - -
11 niji
w.'/i
i '-.*
IWB*K
. . %
• : gSiasgsSsf.
if
v
r/pr-i
■s IWSSS i-
ik
4IQ4^.)CS
-■ jT
4fev
r;/.-Bf
4»:
I
I
V.
■ ■
»
■ ■':. '
,
>
•SsSa&S
MwM' 'mr&r&i
m
mm
ir-
-».■■-
ST
SSI
■ .
i
Sz -A-I TKEU,
680 & 682 GEORGE STREET,
Between Liverpool and Goulburn Streets, Brickfield Hill, Sydney.
DR. SPEER’S
AMERICAN DISPENSARY
31 York Street.
P.O. Box 920.
Dr. Speer is a regular Graduated Physician, educated at
Harvard College, U.S. (for confirmation see New Zealand
Gazette, January 21st, 1886; also New South Wales
Gazette, April 17th, 1888). The doctor has devoted 14
years to the study of CHRONIC, NERVOUS, AND
SPECIAL DISEASES. Four of these were in the leading
hospitals of the United States, which enables him to treat
all complaints with excellent results. All applying to
him will receive his honest opinion of their complaints.
No experimenting ;no Mercury used. He will guarantee
a positive cure in every case he undertakes, or forfeit
£2OO. His reason for doing so is this—when there is not
ortranic disease, and nothing but an inorganic trouble, or,
in other words, a conglomeration of symptoms producing
a certain result, there is no reason why it cannot be re-
moved with the proper remedies, therefore he guarantees.
He wishes it distinctly understood that he does not claim
to perform impossibilities, or to have miraculous power
he claims only to be a skilled and successful physician
thoroughly informed in his speciality—CHßONlC and
SPECIAL DISEASES op MEN and WOMEN. People
residing at a distance can, by explaining their troubles in
detail be treated at home. The course of treatment will
not in any way interfere with their business. Examina-
tion and advice free to all. Charges moderate. H. J.
Speer, M D., 31 York-street, Sydney. Post Office Box,
No. 920. Office hours, 10 a.m. 012 a.m. 2to 4 and 7
to 8 p.m. Sundays from 10 to 11 a.m. only.
Thomas Robb,
TOBACCO 4. CIGAR IMPORTER,
27 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
(Corner of Pitt Street. X
A large stock of Genuine llavannnh Cigars, of the
choicest Brands to select from.
Sole Importer of the Celebrated “ Flor ill 1 Itonllo "
Brand of Cigars and “Empire Cigarette*.••
BOOK of NATURE and Illustrated
Matrimonial Guide.—
ture and uses of the organs of life and generation in man
and woman, intended especially for the married, or those
intending to marry, and who conscientiously and honestly
desire to inform themselves upon the intent and nature
of marriage and its duties, to which is added A COMPLETE
MEDICAL TREATISE upon all diseases of the generative
organs, whether resulting from infection or sexual excesses
and abuse, with much other valuable and highly important
information, illustrated with more than fifty engravings,
by M. Lafayette Byrn, M.D. Price 3s. 6d,, post 4s.
The Fruits of Philosophy or Private Companion for
Married People, post Is. 2d. Mrs. Besant’s Law of Popula-
tion, Is., post Is. 2d. Wonderful Song Book, extra large,
Is. 6d. Decameron Boccaccio, 2s. Aristotle, complete,
3s. 6d., post 4s. Maria Monk, Is. 6d., post Is. 9d. New
complete Fortune Teller, 2s.
“The Matron's Manual ot Midwifery , the book every
married woman needs; prioe 75., ported Ts. (id.
“ Nigger Stump Speeches and Comic Pattern,” prioe 6d.
“The Male Generative Organs,” their use and abuse
with many illustrations and coloured plates ; price 75.,
post 7s. 6d.
The arts of Boxing, Swimming and Gymn asticSjiVnade
easy, enabling any one to become an expert Boxer and
Athlete, illustrated with fifty engravings, price Is., post
free. Agent fqjcfiondon Reynolds, Referee, Dispatch,
Dublin Freeman, Glasgow Mail. Advanced, and Republican
literature on sale.
Six* Robert Bear,
Radical Book Storks,
PARK STREET, SYDNEY.
JOHN BRIDGE & 00.,
CIRCULAR QUAY, SUSSEX STREET, &
DARLING HARBOUR,
. WOOL BROKERS,
Hides, Tallow; Sheepskins, Kangaroo, Bear and
Opossum Skins, dr.
o
ATJCTIOUEEES.
artAIKT SA.LBSMBKT,
/
FROM
Neuralgia,
Nervousness,
Headaches,
Biliousness,
Wasting !
When
disease. Debility, &0., Ac.,
yon can be Cured
BY USING
EARNER'S
TONIC.
CELEBRATED
Price, 2s. 6d. and 55.; Post, Is
CAINS and Co., Chemists,
78 KING ST-, SYDNEY.
For Sale bj all I'hemlstMi
ITALIAN MARBLE QUARRIES.
Slabs. Table*. Blocks, and Monuments.
ST A FEOII TV: I IRE ENCAUSTIC TILERIES.
FLOORING TILES, FROM Bs. PER YARD.
Soiiß Agknts for Australasian Colonirs,
ORONIIONA & COMPANY, LIMITED,
64 Kino Stbbkt, Melbourne


A man named English has died from the
effects of drink at Geelong. “Quite English, you
know.”
A biographette (adapted):—
It’s a boy ! Little Willie. Billy Sliprail. Master W.
A. Sliprail. William A. Sliprail, Mr. William Australia
Sliprail. William Australia Sliprail, Esquire, J.P., Mr.
W. Australia Sliprail. W. A. Sliprail and Co. Sliprail
and Co. Bill Sliprail. Splitty. Central Police Station,
Cell 10. _
Land at Perth, W.A., the best investment
Plans from Intercolonial Investment Co., Ltd.,
96 Bathurst-street, Sydney.
Everybody should use Pemell’s latest best Snow-white
Patent Roller Flour. It is the greatest success ol the age.
-THE.-
Fresh Food & |oe Co.,
LIMITED,
HARBOUR STREET,
SYDNEY,
Are evidently determined to go ahead. They are
now supplying Customers who take a Quart of
Milk and Over per Day at
Til TERENCE PER QUART!
This appears very wonderful, but it is
quite true.
Weekly Accounts.
WOOL. WOOL.
THE NEW ZEALAND
Loan & Mercantile Agency
COMPANY, LIMITED.
BRID GE STREET, SYDNEY.
Capital, £4,500,000 ... Reserve, £270.000
Wool Season, 1888-89*
Regular Sales of Wool Held Throughout the
Season.
FPHE greatest care bestowed on the Valuation and the
Displaying and Protecting all Wools entrusted to
the Company for sale, whether from large or small clips.
63?“ Growers Advised and Consulted with before Sales
of their Clips are made.
Liberal Cash Advances, where desired, on Wool lieu
of Ensuing Clip, and on Wool and other Produce, whether
for sale in Sydney or shipment to London.
Auction Sales of Sheep Skins, Marsupial
Skins, Hides, Tallow, &0., Held Regularly.
63'“ Every Information Supplied on Application.
Gl. S. CAMPBELL, Manager.
SYDNEY WOOL & GRAIN WAREHOUSES
Bridge and Loftus Streets.
Business Announcements.
—FALLON’S—
CELEBRATED
ALBURY WINES.
Recommended by the Medical Faculty.
EDWIN G. GOEETZ,
Stock and Share Broker,
AG-EFTT,
BRISBANE.
Member of the Brisbane Stock Exchange.
LONG’S imperial hotel
TOOWOOMBA, QUEENSLAND.
Acknowledged the Best Hotel on the Darling
Downs. First-class Accommodation.
Private Suites First Class Sample Rooms.
Conveyance Meets Every Train.
JOHN LONG- - - Late of New Zealand.
N D \ I I/ / ,
V ' rHOyOGRA.r”'"' ' _
\\ Views 1 "
iroßTfy\iT
Si ISLANDS '
O Y A L HOT EL,
,M ‘ V Esplanade.
ST. KILDA, VICTORIA,
Facing Beach, close to Pier and Baths. Ten
minutes from Station.
H. MOONEY .... Proprietor.
LIVERY LETTING STABLES ATTACHED.
Telephone 682.
First-class Accommodation for Visitors
SMOKE NOTHING BUT
PIPES.
■
PIPES.
THE BEST IN THE WOULD.
WHOLESALE AGENTS:
JULIUS GOLDSCHMIDT & CO.
231 Clarence Street.
First Prize—MELBOURNE EXHIBITION.
LUBOWICI & SOUS,
Manufacturers and Importers of
Superior Oak-Tanned Leather Belting 1 ,
And every description of
Leather goods for Machine and Engineering Purposes-
Hydraulic
Leathers.
ť
ŧ
Tangye Pump
Leathers.
All goods bearing the above Trade Mark are warranted to
give satisfaction, or may be returned at our expense.
o
Office and Factory: 162 Clarence-St., Sydney,
Between King and Market Streets.
TO ADVERTISERS.
We undertake the advertising of large business
ho ises —filing every paper advertised in, checking
a ipeara ioes, and watching the interests of our
clients. We can save you money, time and
j'lixlety. Write for our pamphlet “How to
Advertise, and Why.” P. T. WIMBLE & CO.,
Newspaper Advertising Bureau, Basement A.J.S.
Bank, 369,371 & 373 George-st., Sydney. Estimates
given for any number of papers by return mail.
jgYDNEY TAKES THE LEAD.
The Sydney Ladies’ and Gentlemen’s
Hairdresssing Palace
AND
TOILETTE REQUISITES,
02 KING STREET.
(Directly opposite the Arcade),
NOW OPEN.
The Public Verdict —A long-felt want filled,
an Establishment that Sydney can be proud of.
No Expense has been spared in fitting up this
Establishment for the convenience and comfort of
its patrons.
A large staff of the very best Gentlemen Work-
men are employed in the Ladies’ and Gentlemen’s
Hairdressing Rooms, and all work is guaranteed.
A SELECT STOCK OE
Gentlemen’s Mercery* Perfumery,
Ladies’and Gentlemen’s Toilet Requisites.
Cigars, Cigarettes, Tobacco, &c-,
iSold at the Lowest Cash Prices.
LAUNDRY AGENCY, &c., &c.
Sydney and Melbourne Daily and Weekly Papers
kept on File.
All Ladies and Gentlemen are invited to visit
and ins' ect this establishment, and be convinced
that it is not equalled in the Southern Hemisphere.
HOURS:
From 8.30 a.m. to 7 p.m. SATURDAYS, 9 D.m.
Medical
*
rs l*
.T'-'
jr
r
/
Ss
/
/*
Infantile Loveliness
mother who loves her children, who takes
pride in their beauty, purity and health, and in
bestowing upon them a child’s greatest inherit-
ance, a skin without blemish, and a body nour-
ished by pure blood, should fail to make trial of
the Guticura Remedies.
Guticura, the great skin cure, and Guticura
Soap, an exquisite skin beautifier, prepared from
it, externally, and Guticura Resolvent, the new
blood purifier, internally, are a positive cure for
every form of skin and blood disease, from pimples
to scrofula, from infancy to ago.
Have been in the drug and medicine business
twenty-five years. Have been selling your Cuti-
CURA Remedies since they came West. They lead
all others in their line. We could not write nor
could you print all we have heard said in favor of
the Coticura Remedies. Ono year ago the Cuti-
CURA and Soap cured a little girl in our house of
the worst sore head we even saw, and the Resolv-
ent and Coticura are now curing a young gentle-
man of a sore leg, while the physicians are trying
to have it amputated. It will save his leg and
perhaps his life. Too much cannot be said in
favor of Guticura Remedies.
S. B. SMITH & BRO., Covington, Ky,
Bold everywhere. Price: Guticura, 50c. ; Soap,
25c.; Resolvent, $l. Prepared by the Potter
Drug and Chemical Co., Boston, Mass.
BABY’S
Skin, scalp and hair preserved and beau-
tified by the use of Cuticura Boap.
When sis months old, the left hand of onr little
grandchild began to swell, and had every appear-
ance of a large boil, We poulticed it, but all to no
purpose. About five months after, it became a
running sore. Soon other sores formed. He then
had two of them on each hand, and as his blood
became more and more impure, it took less time
for them to break out. A sore came on the chin,
beneath the under lip, which was very offensive.
His head was one solid scab, discharging a great
deal. This was his condition at twenty-two months
old, when I undertook the care of him, his mother
having died when he was a little more than a year
old, of consumption (scrofula of course). He could
walk a little, but could not get up if he fell down,
and could not move when in bed, having no
use of his hands. I immediately commenced
with the Cuticura Remedies, using all freely.
One sore after another healed, a bony matter
forming in each one of these five deep ones
Just before healing, which would finally grow
loose and were taken out; then they would heal
rapidly. One of these ugly bone formations I pre-
served. After taking a dozen and a half bottles he
was completely cured, and is now, at the age of six
years, a strong and healthy child.
Mrs. E. S. DBIGGB,
612 E. Clay St., Bloomington, HI,
Send for “How to Cure Skin Diseases,” 64
pages, 50 illustrations, and 100 testimonials.
PIN
IPLKB, blackheads, red, roneh, chapped and
I oily skin prevented by Cuticuba Soap.
Address: R. TOWNS & CO., SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Business Announcements.
Federated Squatters
-AND—
Farmers’ Co-Operative Association of Australasia, Limited,
CIE-CUIjAI?- SinDZETB'Sr.
WOOL and PEODUCE BEOKEES, STOCK and STATION AGENTS.
Advances Made and Deposits Received at Current Rates. Correspondence Invited.
t
Guinness’ Extra Stout,
FIRST QUALITY.
Bass’ Pale AIo,
FIRST QUALITY.
Sole Purveyors to the
Colonial & Indian Exhibition, London.
(By Special Appointment.)
Wholesale Agents: BalcMll, JollllStOH & CO., SydUBJ.
M. B. FOSTER & SONS, LONDON,
bitg-IjE” ddaltd ale a. ltd stout.
-)(-
PUBLIC NOTICE.
It having come to our knowledge that ALE and STOUT of very inferior quality, in bottles with
skillfully forged labels, have lately been palmed off on the public:—
We desire to iVarn our friends rf the fact, and to state that all corks as well as capsules of (ha
bottles shipped by Messrs. M. B. FOSTER & SONS to this colony bear their name and address.
Any information respecting Bottled Beer purporting to be “Foster’s Boole Brand” offered
for sale without these corks and capsules will be esteemed by the undersigned, who have instruc-
tions to bring to justice the perpetrators of the frauds.
A Liberal Reward will be given for information leading to conviction of the offenders.
){
BALCHIM, JOHNSTON & 00.,
Agents for Messrs. M. B. Foster & Sons.
Sydney,
■A-sk for Supper’s ElberfeldL Lager Beer
(Specially Brewed for Australia). Absolutely Free from Sediment.
THOMAS MCREERY,
MEDICAL HERBALIST,
83 Oxford Street, i doors above Riley Street.
Private Diseases of Both Sexes a Speciality.
Consultations Gratis. Charges very Moderate.
A Trial Solicited.
A SPEEDY CURE GUARANTEED.
RICHMOND FAMILY HOTEL,
PORTLAND, VICTORIA.
John Shelton - Proprietor.
Good Luck.
A BALLAD FOR THE GOLD-DIGGERS.
Luck, boys ! Luck—A nugget of gold
Big as my fist, in the best black mould'!
Luck ! —A gallon of bright yellow grains
Dotted like stars in the white quartz veins !
Luck ?—Shall I win it by wallowing in vice,
Swearing, and fighting, and drinking, and dice ?
D’ye call that luck ? No luck could be worse
Than picking up nuggets that brought such a curse.
Luck ?—My Luck ; good luck let it be,
Blessing for others, and plenty for me—
Comfort without, and contentment within,
Not curst by folly, nor canker’d by sin.
Luck; —good luck! this hillock shall give
My sisters in Ayrshire enough while they live,
And haply bring father and mother and all
From want and the workhouse to Liberty Hall!
Luck !—in yon little heap there hide
My farm and its fields on a green hillside,
With flocks, and bairns, and the braw wee wife,
And —God’s good grace on a good man’s life !
Albury, Surrey.
MARIN B. TUPPER.
ANOTHER PICTURE.
Rich ! Yes, we’ve struck it ! What is in store?
A station, a racer, a house by the shore,
A gaily-dressed wife with much gauds round her
neck,
A dozen of servants at call and at beck,
Of ease and. of fatness as much as one may,
A “would it werfe night,” and “would God it were
day,”
A life where the muscles grow placid, brains dull,
Whose flowers are not plucked ’cause you’ve acres
to cull,
A trip home to Europe, good dinners, old wine,
Then back to these pastures of “ iumbuck ” and
kine?
No, no I As I’ve lived, as I’ve loved, let me die,
To blazes with broad-cloth, belltopper, white-tie.
I could not breathe freely shut up within doors,
Girt round with a waistcoat, environed by bores,
I envy not squatter, nor merchant, nor king,
Aye, nought, save the scope of a bird on the wing.
The nuggets come easy, and easy they’ll go,
’Mong the mates on the top, and the boys down
below,
Give me freedom and health, pants, high-boots,
and red shirt,
A show in the pan, and a heap of wash-dirt,
And so while there’s “ prospects ” by flat, creek,
or hill
I’ll handle the shovel, the pick, and the drill,
Contented to bottom on tucker, sweet rest,
My hand within Nature’s, my head on her breast.
Sydney, January, 1890.
GEORGE BLACK.


THE SYDNEY CATERING COMPANY. LTD.,
X (Late Ghmsler’s Cafe)
175 Pitt street, Sydney,
WISH their former Patrons and the Public Generally to know that their Saloons have been Entirely Reorganised, and shall be glad if they will give
kheir new cusine a trial. JAMES 0- MAEQUAND, Manager-
"Will toe Fci-blislieci Shortly,
AXNVHS NBOTIO9
Australian Tales and Sketches in Prose and Verse
By ‘3u.lletin 9 Writers.”
Selection from the brightest of the original literary matter which has made The Bulletin world-famous. Price, Is.; if posted, 3d. extra.
Public Companies.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA.
THE COMING COLONY!
Everyone should Invest a Few Pounds in Land
in
Jr r JsSEl I TE3[,
The CAPITAL CITY OF WESTERN AUSTRALIA.
Compared with other Australian Cities the Price
is Very Low.
The Coal, Gold and Tin Mines are attracting
much enterprise and capital to the Colony.
CITY BUILDING ALLOTMENTS,
From £1 per Foot.
BUILDING SITES adjoining the CITY
From £lO Each.
Small Deposit. Easy Terms. Discount for Cash.
Each Lot guaranteed good Building Land.
Land in Perth will increase greatly in value during
the next few years.
INQUIRY COSTS NOTHING.
Pamphlets, Marked Plain, and full information
posted to any address on application to
The Intercolonial Investment Co,, Limits!
96 Bathurst Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
W. J. DOUGLAS, Manager.
—THE—
federal reversionary investment
AND
FINANCIAL company, limited.
(Incorporated Under Companies’ Act, 187 U
CAPITAL .. .. £200,000.
Sydney Office: .... 301 PITT STREET
A GENCIES in London and throughout Australia.
Ax Immediate advances granted. Bills discounted daily.
Communications from the country promptly attended to.
The following are the rates of interest allowed on Fixed
Deposits 3 years, 10 per cent. ; 12 months, 9 per cent. ;
6 months, 8 per cent.; 3 months, 7 per cent. By order
he Board of Directors.
A. W. Miller, Manager
=CLYDE=
SMELTING, CRUSHING and CHLORMTI
WORKS,
CLYDE, near GRANVILLE,
New South Wales.
Lead and Silver Ores.
ALSO,
Gold Concentrates,
Purchased in any quantity.
Miners and others are invited to send Small or
Large Parcels of Ore to the above Works, which,
on being assayed, Cash Returns will be at once
remitted.
Tariff of Charges forwarded on application to
the Secretary at the Works, Clyde.
Che British and Now South Wales Investment
and Financial Co., Limited.
Incorporated under the Companies’ Act, 1874.
Capital, £250,000.
Btdnby Office: 246 PITT STREET.
BILLS DISCOUNTED and Immediate Advances gmnted
Daily. Country communications promptly attended
to. The following Rates of Interest are allowed for Fixed
Deposits:—
3 Years .... .... 10 per cent.
12 Months .... .... 9 per cent.
6 Months 8 per cent.
3 Months .... .••• 7 per sent.
With a Guaranteed Bonus on Renewals of Twelve Months
and over.
By order of tbs Board.
3 W. It‘DONALD, Manager.
Business Announcements.
-THE-
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL
Insiirancs Sociaty.
Established ... ... 1872.
Bonuses
OF
20 per cent. Paid Annually
since 1573.
Hr/»'d Office
—THE
Oldest Mutual Fire Office
in Australia.
Claims promptly and liberally
settled. ...i. tea days .-trace
allowed for Renew al of Policies.
Lowest Current Rates charged.
Hon. George Thornton, M.L.C.,
Chairman.
Head Office:
Corner Pitt Sc King Streets
SYDNEY.
Walter Church ... Manager
r
r
SOC.RTS
a
MONm
RON
T 5
fRcHR^
&
m
r-T3
□
:
5
TTli
S4J
\W
R O B E U T S & GO.
—W HOLESALE—
lmporters, Iron and Machinery Merchants,
HAY AND ENGINE STREETS SYDNEY.
Head Office: 85 Gracecliurch Street, London, E.C.
IMPORTERS OF-
Hailway & Bridge Contractors’
Plumbers’
Squatters’
Require xents
IN
Great Variety.
IMPORTERS OF-
Engineers’ and Blacksmiths’
Couchbuilders’
Mining
AG
FOR:
Kortinsr’s Gas Engines— The best and cheapest yet made. Automatic self-governing, thus saying cost of gas.
Braddook’s Water and Gas Meters and Gas Lamps. Reading Iron Works Universal (Split) Pulley W heels.
Howe’s Platform and Counter Weighing Machines and Weighbridges.
Miens’ Life Assurance Cempany,
LIMITED.
Capital ... ... £200,000.
Hbad Office;
21 Castlereagh St, Sydney,
With Branches and Agencies throughout the Colonies.
3STew Bnainesa :
1887 There were Issued 19,557 Policies.
1888 „ „ „ 84,884 „
1889 up to 28th October 48,833 „
These figures show the wonderful progress of the
Company and the high esteem placed upon its
liberal dealings by the public.
CLAIMS PAID
Immediately on Proof of Death.
JAMES P. GARVAN, 1
WM. ALEX. SMITH, f
Managing Director.
Secretary.
Palls B RIDGE Family Ho tel -
Falls Bridge, Melbourne.
%
This magnificent Hotel, containing 50 Double
and Single Rooms, is splendidly furnished and
perfectly ventilated.
Hot and Cold Plunge and Shower Baths.
Electric Bells. Telephone 1217 Billiards , &c.
Terms Strictly Moderate.
J. H. DITRRANT 1 Manager.
Late of the South Australian Club Hotel, Adelaide.
The AUSTRALIAN MERCANTILE LOAN and
OAURANTEE COMPANY, Limited.
Head Office
Sydney: Corner of Market & York Streets.
Melbourne Branch: 283 Collins-street East.
Brisbane Branch: Corner Edward and Elizabeth Streets.
Newcastle Branch: 37 Hunter Street.
The Company grant immediate advances upon Deeds of
, Land, Bills of Lading, Merchandise, Storage and Bond
| Certificates, and al classes of mercantile and other approved
| securities, for fixed terms or repayable by instalments.
A. MILLER, Acting-Manager.
Medical.
PULVESMACHSS’3 WORLD-
*3t‘AIiIEB “GALVANIC BEATS
FOR THE CUKE OF
Nervous Exhaustion and Debility, Sciatica,
Lumbago, Rheumatism, See.,
HAVE received Testimonials from Three
Physicians to Her Majesty the Oiieen and
the Leading JPhysi ians of many London Hospi-
tals, including over Forty Members of the Royal
College of Physicians of London.
For full Price-list and particulars, see new pam-
phlet “Galvanism; Nature’s Chief Restorer of
Impaired Vital Energy.” Pamphlets Free.
Sole Agents for N.S.W.,
FROST (Sc SHIPHAM
ELECTRICIANS,
474 & 587 George Street, Sydnev.
Sole Agents for Victoria:
ALLISON BROS., 477 Collins-strebt West, Melbourne.
GRANVILLE, N.S.W.
Sydney Office : - 173 CLARENCE STREET
(near King Street).
Brunton’s Patent Poller Flour
The Highest Order of Merit at every Competition,
‘ Special Recommendation” of the Jurors of the
Melbourne International Centennial Exhibition,
Business Announcements,
-AUSTRALIAN—
Boiler Jlour and grain
—AWARDED-
AND
1888-89.
UMBRILLAS
RE-COVE R£ 0.
tIUDY ECONOMY
and
Have your Umbrella Frames
Re-Covered, and your
Parasols Re-Lined and made
Equal to New, at
J. SULLIVAN'S,
541 George Street,
Brickfield Hill, Sydney,
between
Liverpool Bathurst Sts ,
Parasols made to match Cos-
tumes. Repairs neatly done.
I’HE GEORGE HOTEL
(opposite Railway Station, near Baths),
St. Kilda, Victoria.
First-class Family & Commercial Hotel.
tSST For particulars, apply to
F. WIMFOLE,
PROPRIETOR.
f
EVERY
"DESCRIPTION
HAIR WORK DONE
%
%
ipi
3*
%
*2
%
<C
<o
Sr
&
NJ-
<o
PRIVATE.
ROOMS
FDR LADIES
22*24
ROYAL ARCADE'
MELBOURNE
Sydney Canister Works,
COLLINS STREET, SURRY HILLS,
OFF GROWN STREET.
Manufacturers of allkinds of Tinsfor Confectioners*
Tea Merchants, Biscuit Makers, &c., also all kinds
of Tins, round and square, for Pepper, Spice and
Baking Powder, made by improved machinery.
A. Trial aolioitod.


Medical.
NERVOUS
PHml
WhP° rR,CBELT 'mMi
X V >N>, ■■^S^WuS'llsiy
W*’
■*4
L'zsf-^
A NEVER FAILING CURE FOR ALL.
DISEASES OF TEE NERVOUS SYSTEM.
Complete with Suspensory Appliances from £l. 0. 0 and
upwards. This fanjou-Electric Magnetic Belt will cure
NERVOUS DEBILITY, Seminal Debility, Impotence,
and all weakness caused by indiscretion. I ains in the
Back, Lumbago, Giddiness, Rheumatism, Kidney and
Bladder complaints, and in fact any disease of the Nervous
System. The currents are steady and constantly felt by
the wearer. It has great improvements over all other
belts, we are willing to furnish those belts on 30 days
trial, and accept payment after they have proved them-
selves what we represent them to be. Those belts are
made for the specific purpose of producing a continuous,
mild, soothing current of electricity through all the weak-
ened parts, restoring them to health and vigorous strength,
even the worst case permanently cured in three months.
It is more convenient to wear than any other Belt.
A Book illustrated, containing full information and testi-
monials from prominent people throughout Australia,
and informing persons how they may obtain these belts
without paying for them until they have proved them com-
petent to cure any disease of the Nervous System, will be
forwarded to any address on receipt of a 2d stamp for
postage.
Address:— VOLTAIC BELT COMPANY
Box 916,’ G. P. 0., SYDNE.Y.
Dr. James B. Llewellyn.
L.E.C.P.. M.E.0.5., L.S.A., LOND.,
Registered by the Medical Boards of Victoria, New South
Wales and England,
SPBCIA.IjIST
—IN—
Chronic, Nervous and Genito-Urinary Diseases,
may be consulted daily at
-3 25 LONSDALE STREET—
(between Swanston dt Elizabeth Sts J,
MELBOURNE.
Confidence Absolute. Curable Cases Guaranteed.
All Personal Consultations are peek ; but by
Letter, a Fee of £1 is charged, which is inclusive
of medicines. Patients living at a distance and
unable to attend personally can be treated by post,
and have their remedies forwarded per mail or
express to any part of Australia, carefully packed
and concealed from observation.
A Practical Manual on Special Diseases,
expressly written for the guidance of sufferers from
“Nervous Debility” and Private Diseases—price,
3s. 6d. (post paid.) Copies may be obtained from
the Publishers, “ The Otto Publishing C 0.,” No. 4
A’Beckett-street, Melbourne, and all Booksellers.
A Wonderful Discovery,
Rose’s Celebrated Eye Lotion.
THIS valuable Lotion is guaranteed to cure SWELLING
S^ D o^ B T^ GHT ’ INFLAMED EYES and LIDS,
DIMNESS OF SIGHT, &c. It will be found very bene-
ficial and cooling to those who have weak eyes, or whose
work compels them to strain their eyes. Highly
recommended by the leading Oculists.
Can 11 An T The Public are requested to notice the
yaUUiUIi i words, -Her" Rose s Celebrated Eye
Lotion, with the Trade Mark (a Rose) on Dark Blue
Ground, is on the label affixed to each box containing the
Lotion, without which it is a forgery.
ASK FOR
Rose’s Celebrated Eye Lotion,
Not for ROSE EYE LOTION,
as you will get a Lotion composed of Rose Water palmed
off on you for the genuine article, thus misleading the
purchaser for the sake of the vendor’s extra profit.
Manufactured only by the Proprietor,
H. A. ROSE
Dispensing and Manufacturing Chemist,
531 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Wholesale by the Proprietor and all Wholesale Houses.
Established 1858. By Post Ss. 6d.
Manufacturer of Dr. SOUTHAN’S GOUT and
RHEUMATIC PILLS.
JJEEVOIIS DEBILITY,
* • o
Consult FREE, personally, or by post HERR RASS-
the ce Fbrated DANISH HERBALIST and
EXPERT SPECIALIST. A medical book sent free on
receipt of a 4d., stamped self-addressed envelope, contain
mg valuable hints. Try Herr Rass-Mussen’s Pills, which
are a guaranteed cure. Price, £1 2s. 6d. per course. Sent
unobserved. Address—
Herr Rass-Mussen, “ Roselund Villa,”
Opposite Rifle Butts,
MOORE PARK ROAD, SYDNEY.
BROU’S 'I3STJECTI.OU.
Hygienic, Infallible & Preservative.
Cures promptly, without additional means, all
recent or chronic dis'charges of the urinary organs.
Sold in Paris by
J"• jET* JES Jfc-S. 3E3, —-
(Successor to Brou) Pharmacist, 102 rue Richelieu.
Agent in Sydney:
E. DOUBLET, 165 CLARENCE STREET.
P. C. NICHOLLS & Co,
WHOLESALE
Confectioners & Pastrycooks*
City Buildings:
73& Greorge Street, 73&
haymaeket.
Steam Works :
617, 619, 621, 539, 541 HARRIS STREET.
Wedding Calces, &0., Hade to Order.
Medical.
A WONDERFUL MEDICINE.
Beecliam’s Pills
a?
PATENT
PILLS.
r-
&
■4>.
4$
Are universally admitted
to be worth a Guinea
a Box for bilious
and nervous disorders,
such as wind and pain in
the stomach, sick head-
ache, giddiness, fulness
and swelling after meals,
dizziness, and drowsiness,
cold chills, flashings of
heat, loss of appetite,
shortness of breath, cos-
tiveness, scurvy, blotches
on the skin, disturbed
sleep, frightful dreams,
and all nervous and trem-
bling sensations, &c. The
first dose will give relief
in twenty minutes. E e-y
sufferer is earnestly invited to try one box of these
Pills, and they will be acknowledged to be
Worth a Guinea a Box.
For temales of all ages these Pills are invaluable,
as a few doses of them carry off all humors, and
bring about all that is required. No female should
be without them. There is no medicine to be found
equal to BEECHAM’S PILLS for removing any
obstruction or’irregularity of the system. If taken ac-
cording to the directions given with each box they will
soon restore females of all, ages to sound and robust
health. This' has been proved by thousands who have
tried them, and found the benefits which are ensured by
their use.
For a weak stomach, impaired digestion and all disorders
of the liver, they act like “ MAGIC,” and a few doses will
be found to work wonders upon the most important
organs in the human machine. They strengthen the
■whole muscular system, restore the long-lost complexion,
bring back the keen edge of appetite, and arouse into ac-
tion with the ROSEBUD of health the whole physical
energy of the human frame. These are “ FACTS” testified
continually by members of all classes of society ; and
one of the best guarantees to the nervous and debilitated
is, Beeoham’s Pills have the largest sale of any patent
medicine in the world.
Beecham’s Magic Cough Pills.
As a remedy for Coughs in general, Asthma, Bronchial
Affections, Hoarseness, Shortness of Breath, Tightness
and Oppression of the Chest, Wheezing, &c., these Pills
stand unrivalled. They are the best ever offered to the
public and will speedily remove that sense of oppression
and difficulty of breathing which nightly deprive the
patient of rest. Let any person give Bekcham’s Cough
Pills a trial and the most violent Cough will in a
short time be removed.
Prepared only and sold wholesale and retail by the pro-
prietor, Thomas Beeoham, Chemist, St. Helens, Lancashire,
England, in boxes at Is. IJd. and 2s. 9d. each.—Sold by
all Druggists and Patent Medicine Dealers everywhere.
N.B.— Full directions are given with each box.
CONSULT
Iff
CORE & HOGG
B
THE EMINENT
SPECIALISTS,
On all Diseases tffthe Genitourinary Organs
Nervous Diseases, and Private Complaints,
I, CORBETTS BUILDINGS, comer of George
and Elizabeth Streets, Brisbane.
OOI.SULTATIONS FREE, PERSONALLY OR BY LETTER.
Box 88 G.P.O.) Book sent on receipt of 2d. stamp.
Prof. R. T. SELBY
Is considered to be the most Successful Practi-
tioner in the Australian colonies. All sufferers
should read the Doctor’s most unique work on
Nervous, Private and other Diseases. The
Advice on Marriage is worth its weight in gold.
Send your full address, and we will send (post
free) One Copy. Write to Prof. R. T. SELBY,
Cleveland Street, Surry Hill, SYDNEY.
Hotels.
BOWDEKT’S
Elizabeth Street (Near Hunter St.), Sydney.
JOHN C BO DEN .. Proprietor
"W'JSieTjESIOLIM- HOTBL,
Warrnambool, Victoria.
THIS old-established and well-known Family
and Commercial Hotel combines all the
requirements of a First-Class Hotel with home
comforts.
It is in full view of the sea and within a short
distance of the picturesque scenery of the Hopkin’s
River, which affords the finest Rod and Fly Fishing
in the colony.
Arrangements made for the Hire of Rowing and
Fishing Boats and Fishing Tackle. Bait, etc
supplied. £T Good Shooting in the immediate
neighbourhood.
It is also within Two Minutes’ walk of the Hot
and Cold Sea Water Baths, which are unsur-
passed in the colonies.
livery and letting Stables.
Booking Office for Cobb & Co.’s Coaches. Thos.
Cook & Sons’ Hotel Coupons taken.
GEORGE W. CLARE * Proprietor
Bus ness Announcements
mHH BANK OF NEW ZEALAND.
Jl Sydney Branches :
64 PITT STREET, and 538 GEORGE STREET.
Paid-up Capital £1,125,000
The Bank has Agents in ail the principal cities
throughout the United States of America and
Canada, and can offer special facilities for dealing
in Bullion, Bills of Exchange, Commercial and
Travellers’ Letters of .Credit.
Drafts issued and Bills collected on most favour-
able terms, at rates which can be ascertained on
application.
N. F. GIBLTN, Manager.
rteaa ! H=S.<eE!tca. ! lE3.esi,cL !
“ THE BULLETIN’S ”
History of Botany Bay,
By Arthur Gayll.
Profusely Illustrated by The Bulletin’s well-
known Artists,
L. HOPKINS and PHIL MAY.
JEPrio© - One Sliilling
Per post, Is. 3d.
Wholesale Agents :
Victoria: A. Benjamin, 321 Little Collins-st., Melbourne
Melbourne ; Gordon & Gotch.
Brisbane: J. H. Thompson, Bookseller, George-street.
Adelaide: Neville & Co.
Tasmanian: Fitzgerald Bros., George-street, Launceston.
EPPS’S
GRATEFUL— COMFORTING
COCOA.
MUSICAL.
pATKNT SCALE INDICATOR for Pupils Learning the
1 Piano. Price, 3s. 6d. And IMPROVED VAMPING
SYSTEM, without a knowledge of Music, ss. 6d., posted
to the country from Ingham’s, Sydney Arcade.
Country Agents wanted—Stationers.
EMPIRE BUILDINGS,
Collins Street West, MELBOURNE
(Near Scott’s Hotel).
WE beg to inform our Friends and the
Public that we have Opened these
Grand Premises as an
OYSTER SALOON
AND
Continental Dining Eooms.
PRIVATE DINNERS provided on Shortest Notice.
- Moderate Charges—
BIKTI & K A. X Z,
PROPRIETORS.
MANUFACTURING HATTERS
GEORGE STREET
SYDNEY
IMPORTERS Of AIL THE
NEWESTSHAPES.
And at ALBERT STREET, BRISBANE,
-A W
flUCH'S
t
MS
•tm
■^ | saL / !
_ <
Business Announcements.
•jhe three great lights t
The Needles Patent Gas-making Machine;
The Harvey Patent Safety Kerosene Lamp;
AND THE
Hew Era Portable Gas Lamp.
The Harvey Lamp has been adopted by the
Railway Commissioners for lighting the Sydney
trams. We were awarded the Highest Order of
Merit and Special Mention by experts at the
late _ Melbourne I xhibition for our lighting
mediums. Over 60(!0 Harvey Lamps are in use
in this colony, and for all lighting purposes are
giving universal satisfaction. These Lamps can
be seen on one of the North Shore ferry-boats,
and are suitable for all classes of vessels. The
Inventor offers £2OO to anyone producing as good
a Kerosene Burner.
Patentees for Australasia:
iex. x. sa&aiiii'tE'iEa: & 00.,
I!M Kent Street Soiitli. svitXEY;
14 Arcade, Adelaide, S,A.; Argent Street, Broken Hill;
Parkside Iron Works, Melbourne.
FREE BY POST for six funny Stamps, a
Medical Treatise by that eminent French
Hospital Physician and Parisian Specialist, Dr.
RABONSKI, showing sufferers h w they may
cure themselves of Nervous Debility, Lost V itality,
&c., &c., without consulting a medical man.
Address; “Parisian,” P.O. Box 700, Sydney.
£3?" A BLESSING IN EVERT FAMILY.
HOLLOWAY’S PILLS AND OINTMENT.
There is not a country in the civilised world where
the healing virtues of thes o grand medicines have not been
recognised by thousands of sufferers; In all the ordinary
ailments of humanity their beneficent action is at once
recognised. Fullest directions are supplied for their use
in every disease. IF YOU SUFFER, TRY THEM. Manu-
factured only at 70 New Oxford-st., London. Pur-
chasers should look to the Label on the Boxes and Pots.
If the address is not 523 Oxford-street, London, they are
spurious.
—THE—
SYDNEY SOAP & CANDLE GO.,
Limited,
MANUFACTURERS OF
Stearins and -Paraffin Candles,
HOT & COLD WATER SOAP
Of every Description
Glycerine, Lubricating, Machine, Cloth and
Neatsfoot Oils.
The only Genuine and Original
Magic Cleanser Cold Water Soap*
To be had at all Grocers and Storekeepers.
Upfold’s Tree Pest Exterminator,
Its Effects are Marvellous!
“What is Home without a Picture?”
Xi. BEEHASCOUI,
(Late R. Smith)
Elite Carver, Gilder, and Picture Frame Maker,
159 Clarence Street Only, SYDNEY
(near Central Coffee Palace).
Plush Work a Speciality. Mounts Out to any Design.
H. HILDER,
BOOT UPPER MANUFACTURER
IMPORTER OP
ENGLISH AND FOREIGN LEATHER,
Elastic Web, Grindery, Ac.,
Wholesale and Retail Leather Merchant
539 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
PAPER-HANGINGS
OusXfrows* Paints
Wall Papers s rML
PA(
BathurstSt
Brickfield Hill.
WALTEE HOPE,
General Merchant & Commission Agent,
199 SUSSEX STREET, SYDNEY.
C CONSIGNMENTS of all Produce, Live Stock,, etc.,
) received and realised in the best markets. Account
Sales and Proceeds remitted the day after sale. Orders
executed for all Goods from Sydney at Lowest Wholesale
Prices
Speciality.— Pure-bred and Pedigree Stock of all de-
scriptions Bought or Sold on Commission. All communi-
cations referring- to Pure-bred Poultry and Eggs for Setting
to be addressed as usual to WALTER HOPE, Bonnyrigg
Prize Poultry Farm, Liverpool, N.S.W.
SPECIAL NOTICE.— The Sydney Bulletin
Tasmanian Edition Publishers, FITZ-
GERALD BROS, s übscription (payable strictly
in advance), Six Shillings and Sixpence per quar-
ter, or One Pound per annum.
The Bulletin will be on Sale every Friday at
me Office, George Street, Launceston, or fronn the
Runners in the street.
PRINCE OE WALES’ HOTEL,
near OperaFouse, Bourke-st.,Eajst, Melbourne!
. "Til-known Sporting House is conducted
in I irst-class Style. Every convenience Centrally
Situated.


SH E V I L L & CO.,
Corner Queen Street and Flinders Lane,
MELBOURNE,
MERCANTILE AUCTIONEERS,
House, Land, and Estate Agents,
ns
S' „
-i J
Advances made against shipments of Merchandise
and Colonial Produce.
Daily Sales held at their Commodious
New Rooms.
OUTDOOR
Furniture & Land Sales Conducted.
Branch
Offices
r 33 Chapel St., Prahran.
\ 2 Albert St., Windsor.
Offices
■iP
IMPORTER OE
•W lUES, x SP I JE& IT S 3 x BEER S, x ETC.,
George and Gipps Streets, Sydney.
SPECIALITIES:
John Jameson’s Dublin Whisky (5 to 10 years old) ; W. Jameson’s, Ddnville's Roe’s and Wise’s (old Cork) Whiskies.
Hennessy’s, Martell’s and Sazbrac’s Brandies (5, 10, 15 and 21 years old).
2'Ae Choicest and Oldest SCOTCH WHISKIES (in 'wood). Imported and Bottled by P.li.L.
£3P“ The Best Port and Sherry Wines and Champagnes. All Brands of Colonial Wines. The leading brands
of Bottled Ale and Stout, arriving by monthly steamers.
Prince of Wales Hotel, 778 & 780 George Street.
•SS-fyjlEsalu anil finale llntl'le l)cpai|tmcnts, 2*82 anil Sydney.
SEND FOR A PRICE LIST.
FIRST-CLASS LADIES’ SeFMSHMHHT ROOM & LAVATORY,
GIPPS STREET (Opposite A. Hordern & Sons.)
—)x(
Produce Stores, Gipps St., and Darlmgliiirst Hoad.
HEAD OrriCE : GIPPS STREET (Next Prince of Wales Hotel).
ţ
S'
N 9
3XT iES'W
FURNITURE
WAREHOUSES,
York Street, Wynyard Square, Sydney,
Now supply the General Public as well as the Trade.
10,000 Bedsteads,
From lOs. 6d. to £35.
: M
m*
ISusßlfty
. .■ vIVA- -
MSI
!<!'!•■ ■w»l
?f°*oor. E NrsLi
nAdiiis^i
Hr il iff V|
B 11. ll' il.fl !„.„, '*"'■=*•
i>. Uii'S; r:'’QM^ieais6i J i. _
fei:*/;-?'
**
A’4M^m«laMWL
.
XI.
s:aS^-: • ‘ -bifaVqa Ji'PS «<
■ ■mill ■■„ „ MWMIB ■ *••! .
V-'-* ■;•
11
c \ -
-%vT
Mi
BiYLEE & CO.,
General Auctioneers and Estate Agents,
3 - i5 Collins Street, Melbourne, and 14 Chapel
Street, South Yarra.
X rJ 3f<E3-J3 Prescriptions
Are to be found in the “ Light arid. Life,’
for the Sneedy Cure of Nekvous Debility and
Kindred Diseases, &c. A copy of this book will
be sent Dree, sealed, for Six Penny Stamps.
Address —
S. WARD & 00., SYDNEY PHARMACY,
76 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
tr
BROTHERS,
S3
LIMITED.
263 to 269 KENT STREET,
SYDNEY,
Have always in Stock for Sale to the
Trade and Wholesale Buyers Only,
Ironmongery, and
GENERAL HARDWARE
Glass, China and
EARTHENWARE.
WINES, BEKRS A- SPIRITS,
AND GENERAL
BULK MERCHANDISE.
Agents for
JOHN WALKER and SONS
Old Highland Whisky.
J, SORIN and CO.’S
Cognac.
J. T. GAYEN’S,
Schnapps and Geneva.
A. MELVIN and SO NS’
Edinburgh Pale Ale.
SMITH, XT.S-A..,
MEDICAL EXPERT
In PRIVATE COMPLAINTS of BOTH SEXES.
A Prompt and Safe Cure Guaranteed.
CONSULTING ROOMS:
Nos. 7 Si 8 First Floor, 482 GEOEGE STEEET,
SYDNEY.
Hours : ... From 11 a.m. till 4 p.m.
Imperial Hotel,
TOWNSVILLE.
thomas Wallace,
Proprietor.
*
For
AIR.
ROWLANDS’
MACASSAR OIL.
Used for 100 years. Prevents and Arrests Baldness,
strengthens the Hair and pr duces a luxuriant and glossy
growth ; also prepared in a Golden Colour.
ROWLANDS’
ODONTO.
-
A pure, non-grjtty Tooth Powder. It whitens the
Teeth, prevents decay, gives fragrance to the breath.
ROWLANDS’
KALYDOR.
A harmless emollient milk for beautifying the com-
plexion. Rem ves Freckles, Tan, Sunburn, Roughness
and Redness, and produces soft, iair and delicate skin.
ROWLANDS’ ESSENCE OF TYRE
Grey Hair a permanent Brown or Black. Ask Chemists and Perfumers for ROWLANDS'
Articles, of 20, Hatton Garden, London, England, and avoid imitations.
TANGYES
, JLa X 33&QE I "JO*
Hay St., Haymarket, Sydney,
ENGINES,
2 to 50 h.p.
BOILERS,
1 to 35 h.p.
STEAM PUMPS
For all purposes.
mmm jumps,
2" to 40" discharge.
HAND PUMPS.
Saw Benches.
Lat lies.
n MUM
&0., &c.
-
Wifi
'
. i-
WINDING ENG®
Hauling Engines.
Battery Engines.
Saw-mill Engines.
PLODE-MIGI ENGINES,
- ;: : :
engines
for |9
Electric Lighting.
Vertical Boilers.
„'■ / '' J . .V'- '- E?
Mitiiklar Boilers,
COEMKH KOBLEKB.
&c., &o.
We invite al those requiring Machinery of any Idtid'for any purpose, large or small, to write for particulars and prices.
120,
131,
-r r • From the extent of our stock we are 'generally ahlo f rt
Visitors, whether buyers or ut, are always welcome to inspect the magnificent display in our now and extensive Showrooms, " ® lve llnme diate delivery
133
13 S C3 T IIFS. 3ES 353 'I! 2 ,
■ .A. "ST IMI .A. 3E5. 3EKI DE3 "1", Y
