

J
£ treat, -
UNRIVALLED ACCOMMODATION.
ZED icfe son's
“2L-.ta.11l Pass” <£ Lool^Ont. 5 ’
DISTANCE EDOM SYDNEY, 42 MILES.
wm. dickson
** Well.
HORSES AND VEHICLES ON HIRE.
“ Xsoaa-cioia. -W■£a,■fc£s^'•f^blls- ,
EVERY ACCOMMODATION.
Proprietor.
op* oa
Q 2»
BALDWII DET AIM, EBFEIGERATOE,
C->-KX>X>S<M
K»» «*»»*»»<*»»»^
Beware of the many so-called Dry Air Refrigerators advertised by unscrupulous Manufacturers and Dealers, in lending
to deceive the public and trade upon our reputation. This is the original and celebrated Dry Air Refrigerator, made
famous by its successful competition at the leading Exhibitions in the United States for the past Six Years, known as
the Baldwin Dry Air Refrigerator-
WHITE MOUNTAIN FREEZERS, ICE MILK . CANS, MIXERS,
31. ;E3 3VE O 3>T
SQUEEZERS,
&c..
&c.
“
ZEBiros- <Sz> T* ?
512 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
rpi ij] COLONIAL MUTUAL LIFE ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED.
BRANCHES THROUGHOUT TllE COLONIES AND THE UNITED KINGDOM.
_ Tontine aw'd Mortuary Dividend. SYSTEMS.
Policies issued under the Ordinary, Modifiett x oi:L ■
J. & C. HOWARD.
15on:)id’s 3‘Furrow I»lgK»n«
t*.ou»li, (1f.Z.0.L)
nownnVs Slnglc‘T«rrow I>lkrliis
I'lon^l**—(O.L.)
TJx*E!> 3P.1 013. ©Tls. off" Times!
ploitotitno and harrowing in one act.
Bliare Points only cost 6c1., and are Reversible.
Cn.vFr-CuTTKRs, lloe.se Qraiks ami every kind of Aoeiculti eal Jmvekments
lIsT STOCK., ........ „ .
%gT Enquirers ploaso quote this paper.
i ] ; ■ f . ;
280 i PITT STREET, SYDNEY
(Counee ok Pitt and llatfujuht Stkbrts).
at
Wr
*y.
f WJSS
-THE—
LONDON & SYDNEY
TEA
COMPANY.
409— KENT STREET-409
(Two floors from Market. Street),
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
—IMPORT—
mo- H-C LASS I3STDI ALT &c C HIUA
"teas
Packed in 201 b. and 401 b. Packages, and delivered at Is. 6d.„ 3.8. 9d. and 2s. per lb.
(Carriage Free) to any Railway Station or Port in tfevr South Wales.
A Single Package at Wholesale Price. Correspondence invited aad promptly attended to.
The Bulletin
Vol. 11— No. 526.]
[Saturday, March 15, 1890.


TOBACCO
m
I •
m
m
a
a
o
☆
x
f
>/
Is IR ROGER
so
a
z
Jj
o
DIXSONS
Dr. RIDGE’S
FOOD
FOR INFANTS AND INVALIDS
Has an enormous sale in England
and is now being introduced into the
Colonies.
Every Storekeeper should get a supply
as every Wise mother will certainly
use it.
DR. RIDGE S ROYAL POOD MILLS,
LONDON, ENGLAND.
s» w *.
f XAWM’-
pMuiDBeN?
mm
rPUNH** C ,* t '
BROWN’S
SATIN
POLISH
—FOB-
LADIES' AND CHILDREN’S
BOOTS AND SHOES.
Awarded highest honors at
Phila., 1876 I Melbourne, 1880
Berlin, 1877 Frankfort, 1881
Paris, 1878 I Amstord’m 1883
New Orleans, 1884-85, and wherever
exhibited.
Paris medal on every bottle.
Beware of Imitations.
This Blacking is in liquid form and is applied to Shoes
or other articles of leather by means of a sponge, attached
to the cork by a wire, so that the blacking can be used by
anyone without soiling the fingers. No polishing brush
is required. It dries immediately after being applied, and
will not soil the most delicate clothing.
Sold largely in Australia through Commission Merchants
and Dealers.
THE BALLARAT COFFEE FALACE,
Lydiard Street, Ballarat.
VISITORS to the Golden City will find every
convenience at the above Establishment.
The Only Coffee Palace in Ballarat.
MODERATE CHARGES.
REID & SONS Proprietors.
B. P. BROWN & CO
IIVU Win Oil VO.,
Boston, U.S.A., M’f'gs.
ATKINSON’S
ENGLISH PERFUMERY
aurpassea all others for its natural
fragrance.
ESSENCE OF WHITE ROSE
FRANGIPAHNE
STEPHANOIIS
YLANG YLANG
OPOPANAX
and other well-known Perfumes are
unequalled for their delightful and
lastlag odour.
OJ all Dealeri, and of the Mnnu/aetnrer* —
J, & E. ATKINSON, *
24, OLD BOND STREET, LONDON.
Trade M ark—" 'White Rose ” on Ooldan
Lyre, with Address in full.
T. LAWLESS, June.,
37 MARKET STREET,
SYDNEY,
Insure Your Health Against All Risks
—BY TAKING—
Kruse's Fluid Magnesia.
It Cools the Blood, Promotes a Healthy Flow of the Secretions
and Fortifies the System against the Shafts of Disease.
The Best Aperient For Children. Numems Gold Medals.
SUPERIOR to £Lll OTHERS!
(Vide Medical Testimonials, Analysis, &c., accompanying each Bottle.)
x x
—TAKE ONLY KRUSE’S —
Sold in Bottles at Is. 3d,, 2s, 6d., 3s. 6d. Each.
Wholesale Agents; Messrs. ELLIOTT Bros., Ltd
CLARENDON HOTEL, MANLY,
The Brighton of New South Wales.
AT the CLARENDON HOTEL, Banquets, Supfters, Private Dinners, Evening Parties, etc., are
served on the Shortest Notice in the Large Dining Hall. Besides having a most recherche
Dinner vou can enioy from the balconies the magnificent view of the sea and surrounding country ;
here also vou can have good company, good wines—in fact, everything that can possibly make one
canX found at this really first-class hotel. Fishing and Picnic Parties provided. Tattle
de H6te at One o'clock daily and Sundays. No expense is spared by Mrs. Kilminster to make her
■visitors comfortable and her Hotel the best in the colony.
3y lrg . kILMUKTSTBR, Clarendon Hotel,
Opposite OCEAN BEACH, MANLY.
RICHMOND FAMILY HOTEL,
PORTLAND, VICTORIA.
John Shelton - Proprietor.
68 Hunter Street, and 8 Bligh Street,
SYDNEY.
IF. SHEOEDSS
LIVERY, BAIT, LET-OtjT AND COMMIS-
SION STABLES.
Horses and Vehicles of every description for
Sale or Hire; also, good reliable Ladies ®r Gentle-
men's Hacks.
WILLIAM -- CARGILL,
Photographic Stock Importer,
2 6 MARKET STREET, SYDNEY.
C'HABfl’C, IUW
vlA
\l/
e
o
L
N.
Q
Offices
Mildura
Melbourne
Renmark
Adelai d£
Vi C TO m A:
_ Cb&Sejr Irrigation Offices, Swanstcn Street.
_ . Australia.
Cavendish Chambers, Grenfell Street.
J. E Mathew Vincent, (Chief Commissioner)
Cornwall Buildings, 35 QucfH Victoria St.
UQNOON EC
Tuaticl 4 C*
i»R I N C E OF WALES’ HOTEL,
4
St. Kilda, Victoria.
Within Five Minutes from STATION, and One Minute from ESPLANADE and BATHS.
MRS. KONG MENG ... ... — Proprietress. ■
LEA & PERRINS
■ SAUCE, ■
Purchasers should see that the Label on c.vcry botllo of the origina*
WORCESTERSHIRE SAUCE
bears the Signature, thus
O'
Ask for Lea & Pebtuns’ Sauce, and see Name on Wrapper, liabcl, Pottle and Stopper
Wholesale and for Export hi/ the Proprietors, Worecstc-r; Crosse # JlhcktciH, London, se.
and by Grocers and Oilmen throughout (he II oxhL
Everyone should Read-
HISTORY of BOTANY BAY,
By ARTHUR GrAYLL.
Profusely Illustrated by “ The Bulletin s” well-known Artists, L. Hopkins and Phil May.
Price
■ ONE SHILLING; per Post, Is. 3d.
May be had from Agents, or direct from “The Bulletin” Office.
Agents Victorian :A. Benjamin, 321 Little Collins Street Bast, Melbourne; Tnsmaman : Brothers, Georgs Street,
'Launceston ; Queensland: J. H. Thompson, George btreet, Brisbane,


BEALE <Sc CO.’S
NEW WAREHOUSE.
'fl :
I
.tv/irc.
s*l Nj?
r*A nr
AND CHIEF OFFICES,
,482* -48-4, & 4-8 B George Street,
SNrioisriENr.
REVOLUTIONISING
THE piakto trade.
Messrs. Beale & Co.’s Great Enterprise.
THERE can be no questioning the fact that the Piano
Trade of these Colonies has undergone a complete
revolution during the last five years ; and to that desirable
change certainly no firm has contributed more than
Messrs. Beale and Company. During the time high prices
continued the trade was held by a few, and hundreds of
homes now rendered attractive by the glorious influence
of music scarce could dream of becoming the ultimate
owners of the instrument which has done so much to
cheer and to refine our modern domestic life.
When Beale and Company commenced business they
had quietly gauged this condition of affairs in Australia,
and they began operations on a plan which could alone
work out successively in a mammoth undertaking such as
they proposed. With the Australian selling branch of
their enterprise they resolved to combine the manufacture
of Pianos in Germany—the centre of the world’s trade for
that instrument. But the experts sent out here for the
purpose of fully determining what was best fitted for
colonial requirements reported that it was essential to
have a special make of piano to suit our climate—an in-
strument as different as those made for Europe as Aus-
tralia is different from the Old World. The result of this
was the production of the staunchest pianoforte of
modern times—the iron-framed “ Hapsburg.” The in-
strument is regarded by the most capable experts of
Europe as the Production of the Age, combining as
it does every feature of the highest class instrument with
the maximum of strength and durability, and it was placed
on the market at prices much under what other firms and
manufacturers had previously demanded. Although it
took almost endless trouble and long, patient labour to
produce the design of the “ Inimitable Hapsburg,” yet once
produced the demand grew so rapidly, and has become so
great, that the enterprising originators are able to out-
distance all competitors for both quality and price. The
peculiar construction of the iron frame, the excellence
of the wires, and the unique movements have, with all
other factors, contributed to this splendid success. No
other instrument, possesses to the same degree such rich
full, clear, bell-like tones, so noticeable m the “Haps-
burg,” especially in the higher grades, while strength,
solidity, and imperviousness to climatic influences have
been so well looked to that whether on the coldest, o>ak-
est spots of New Zealand or our own Monaro Plains, or in
the hottest of our Western and Northern areas, this
wonderful pianoforte not only maintains, but improves its
tone and consequent value even after years of use. And
it must continue so. The genius and experience of the
mechanical world in this branch of art are embodied in
this one instrument—the inimitable “ Hapsburg ’’—and
the sales to-day give ample evidence of the repute in which
it is held. Beale & Company have placed the
“Hapsburg” with thousands of families in Australia.
Homes in the far-distant back blocks, and homes in the
city, are not only enlivened but are made purer and better
through the influence of its music. The firm resolved to
do a large trade by selling these superior instru-
ments at prices and on terms demanded for the
lower grades, and success has crowned their efforts.
They do by far the largest business, and hold the
largest stocks in the colonies. They give their best
efforts to suit the circumstances and requirements of
every customer, and they supply for cash or on an easy
system of Tune-payment which they have made peculiarly
their own. The correspondence department is of itself a
huge undertaking ; every mail brings its burden of letters.
From the great landowner, from the rich squatter, and
the astute merchant they come. And they came too
from clergymen, from doctors and solicitors, from civil
servants, and from the struggling selector, the tradesman,
the workingman ; for fathers and mothers of every grade
and class now recognise the influence which music exerts
for good in the life of the home. And every writer re-
ceives courteous attention and immediate response.
Hapsburg Double Iron-framed Pianos
Possess the following Advantages —
-Ist. —The wires are of a very high quality and in-
tensely sensitive ; their vibrations, reverberated
by a sounding board of special construction, are
clear and bell-like, instead of the muffled, tin-
kettly, or metallic sounds so common in cheap
Pianos.
2nd. —Being double oblique the strings are of a
greater length and fuller tone than in the old
straight-strung Pianos.
fil'd.—Tl le action is perfect check repeater, and is
made of pencil cedar, an expensive material,
and best for resisting climatic changes.
4th. —All the Hapsburg Pianos are Trichord.
6th.—They are all seven Octaves.
Bth. —They have consolidated Iron Frames of
great strength, thus resisting the rapid muta-
tions of a tropical climate, whereby tuning is
only required at long intervals.
fth.—They oppose obstacles to the inroads of cock-
roaches, silver-fish, mice, &c. They have wire
gauze backs which cannot be eaten by vermin,
and other unique improvements devised for
similiar ends.
Bth. —The Felts are Clinched on the Hammers,
instead of being fastened only by glue, as is the
case with nearly every Piano except the Haps-
burg.
9th.—They have brass or nickel-faced Wrest-
planks, instead of the old-fashioned perishable
style.
10th.—Rust is guarded against, wherever possible,
by the substitution of bronze for other metals.
11th.—The outer cases are handsome in design,
and of durable beautiful woods; they can be
had in walnut, or in walnut and gold, or in
ebony and gold.
12th.—No matter in what part of the colony you
live, we will supply you with a Hapsburg Piano
upon easy terms of payment. No charge will be
made for packing or for packing cases.
Hapsburg Pianos. Haydn Organs.
Photographs and Price-lists by post or from our
own travellers everywhere.
Business Announcements.
WILLIAM FLEMING,
MERCHANT and IMPORTER,
22 & 24 Clarence Street
(Corner Margaret St.),
SYDNEY.
2, St. James Buildings
(WILLIAM STREET),
MELBOURNE.
Pleming ,, s
RELIABLE
Buggies.
jhjkhk
Hig'h-Glass Biig-g'ies, Phaetons,
Wag'g'ons and Harness.
%
Farm Waggons,
Express Waggons.
CARTS
For One and Two Passengers.
<<"
X X
!l Hill ■
r
r*i
r 1
iiiilliiiim
CP
Cn
>
ZD
wiiiiim,
X
a
xy
2
Hi
r
mm
f ?r
V
?
D
m
THE
N>*
o
&
68
CLARENCE SX
SYDNEY.
AGENTS
in New SouthWau^
ofThe Qoop S PiMT OVER Bad.
P
C
1
T
SUFIP
FROM
Neuralgia,
Nervousness,
Headaches,
Biliousness,
Wasting Disease, Debility, &c., &c.,
When yon can he Cured
BY USING
EARNER'S
TONIC
CELEBRATED
Price, 2s. 6d. and 55.; Post, Is
Extra.
CAINS and Co., Chemists,
78 KING ST., SYDNEY.
For Sale by all Chemists.
M. W, & Co.
HUNGARIAN
NATURAL APERIENT WATER.
A For Constipation, tndigestloi
AU.
OF ALL CHEMISTS IN AUSTRALASIA
The Natural Mineral Waters of
{STATE
hkj
SPRINGS.)
6RANDE-ORILLE. —For Affections of th«
Liver, Biliary Organs, &o.
CELESTINS.—For the Kidneys, Gravel, Gout
Rheumatism, Diabetes, &o.
HOPITAL.—For Stomach Complaints.
HAUTERIYE. —An excellent Table Wats*.
OF ALL CHEMISTS IN AUSTRALASIA.
Business Announcements.
MASON BROTHERS,
n
55
LIMITED.
263 to 269 KENT STREET,
SYDNEY,
Have always in Stock for Sale to tha
Trade and Wholesale Buyers Only,
Ironmongery, ami
GENERAL HARDWARE
Glass, China ami
EARTHENWARE.
WINE'S. BEERS & SPIRITS,
AND GENERAL
BULK MERCHANDISE.
Agents for
JOHN WALKER and SONS
Old Highland Whisky.
J. SORIN and CO.’S
Cognac.
J. T. GAYEN’S,
Schnapps and Geneva.
A. MELVIN and SON S’
Edinburgh Pale Ale.
SPECIALTY
ZE3IIES HXTXXY KIKTG,
PHOTO-SCENIC ARTIST,
316 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Is constantly adding fresh subjects to his Im-
mense Stock of Australian and New Zealand
Views, comprising every variety of subject taken
from Nature unadorned and Art glorified.
Marine Views and Landscapes,
Mountains and Caves,
Crack Yachts and Cathedrals,
Old Identities and Young Australians,
Everyday Sights and Stirring Incidents,
Stereo, and Lantern Slides,
High-class Portraiture.
Catalogues on Application.
316 George St. between Hunter and King Sts.
Medical.
DR. SPEER’S
AMERICAN DISPENSARY
3 X "ST or k Street.
P.O. Box 920.
Dr. Speer is a regular Graduated Physician, educated at
Harvard College, U.S. (for confirmation see New Zealand
Gazette, January 21st, 1886; also New South Wales
Gazette, April 17th, 1888). The doctor has devoted 14
years to the study of CHRONIC, NERVOUS, AND
SPECIAL DISEASES. Four of these were in the leading
hospitals of the United States, which enables him to treat
all complaints with excellent results. All applying to
him will receive his honest opinion of their complaints.
No experimenting ;no Mercury used. He will guarantee
a positive cure in every case he undertakes, or forfeit
£2OO. His reason for doing so is this—when there is no
organic disease, and nothing but an inorganic trouble, or,
in other words, a conglomeration of symptoms producing
a certain result, there is no reason why it cannot be re-
moved with the proper remedies, therefore he guarantees.
He wishes it distinctly understood that he does not claim
to perform impossibilities, or to have miraculous power
he claims only to be a skilled and successful physician
thoroughly informed in his speciality—CHßONlC and
SPECIAL DISEASES of MEN and WOMEN. People
residing at a distance can, by explaining their troubles in
detail be treated at home. The course of treatment will
not in any way interfere with their business. Examina-
tion and advice free to all. Charges moderate. H. J.
Speer, M D., 31 York-street, Sydney. Post Office Box,
No. 920. Office hours, 10 a.m. 012 a.m. 2to 4 and 7
to.B p.m. Sundays from 10 to 11 a.m. only.
1
° ! cru
TO YOUINTG 3VEEKT.
DR. FLETCHER’S
TREATISE ON NERVOUS DISEASES, THEIR CAUSE,
SYMPTOMS, TREATMENT, AND CURE.
r T'HE directions contained in this little treatise will be
_ found of immense benefit to the sufferer; and if these
directions are observed during the early stages of Nervous
or Sexual Debility, A’o Medicines will be required, as, by
observing the directions given, the patient can Cure Him-
self.
This admirable little treatise is specially written to
show a method of counteracting the evil effects of indis-
cretions in early life—overwork, irregularity in eating or
drinking, &c. It is the result of much study and long
and successful experience in the treatment of diseases,
and contains a fund of useful information to every suf-
ferer from the following complaints, viz.:—Nervous
Debility, Dizziness, Specks before the Eyes, Pains in the
Back, Defective Memory, Loss of Will Power, Loss of
Energy, Spermatorrhoea, Bashfulness, Discontentedness,
Constipation, Liver and Kidney Derangements, Atrophy,
Impotence, Impure Blood, Foul Taste in Mouth, Palpita-
tion of Heart, Wakefulness, Despondency, Excessive Ner-
vousness, Inability to Marry, Premature Decay, and other
symptoms experienced by nervous sufferers.
All Should Send for this Little Treatise.
If the complaint is of long standing and requires
medicine, Dr. Fletcher will GUARANTEE TO CURE
ANY CASE OF NERVOUS or SEXUAL DEBILITY
with ONE COURSE OF MEDICINES LASTING FIVE
WEEKS, and wall send with medicines A WRITTEN
GUARANTEE to cure same or return the monies paid.
Dr. Fletcher’s treatment is both simple and effective,
and within the reach of the poorest. It is unlike any
other, and with it he has cured over 25,000 patients, and
invites patients to investigate his statements by verifying
the testimonials published in his treatise. The treatise
Mil be forwarded on receipt of two stamps to cover
postage.
CONSULTATION BY LETTER, FREE.
Address in first instance—
DR. H. EWART FLETCHER,
Box 1417, G.P.O.
Sydney, N.S.W.
Private address—Clonmel House, Waverley, Sydney.
_ Remember, all oases undertaken, guaranteed, and a
signed agreement given, which provides that NO COST
be incurred by the patient if a cure is not effected.
VARICOCELE RADICALLY CURED WITHOUT
OPERATION.
Mention this Paper.
IN THE PRESS,
“.A. GOLHEIT
By “BULLETIN" WRITERS.


EAST ESTATE
A pleasantly-situated Property, thoroughly cleared, close to Liverpool Station. Torrens’ Title. £1 deposit; 10s, per month
-A.- W. STEPHEN, 28 CASTLEEEAGH STEBET, SYEUEY.
“A GOLDEN SHANTY.” A Selection from the brightest of the original literary matter which has made The Bulletin world-famous. Price, Is.; if posted, 3d. extra.
Public Companies.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA.
THE COMING COLONY!
Everyone should Invest a Few Pounds in Land
in
Tub CAPITAL CITY OF WESTERN AUSTRALIA.
Compared with other Australian Cities the Price
is Very Low.
The Coal, Gold and Tin Mines are attracting
much enterprise and capital to the Colony.
CITY BUILDINCT ALLOTMENTS,
From f I per Foot.
BUILDING SITES adjoining the CITY
From £lO Kaeh.
Small Deposit. Ea«y Terms. Discount for Cash.
Each Lot guaranteed good Building Land.
Land in Perth will increase greatly in value during
the next few years.
INQUIRY COSTS NOTHING.
Pamphlets, Marked Plan-t, and full information
posted to any address on application to
The Intercolonial Investment So., Limits i
96 Bathurst Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
W. J. DOUGLAS, Manager.
The most Del clous Sauce in the "World.
YORKSHIRE RELISH
C£UEB
6,000,000 Settles
sold annually.
Snriohes liot
Joints, Stews,
&c.
Be iciousto Chops,
Steaks,Fish,&c.
■With soup it is
charming'.
Agrees with the
most delicate
person.
Hakes cold meat
a luxury.
Hakes the plain*
est viands pal-
atable.
The daintiest
dishes more
delicious.
A great addition
to Cheese.
Spieures pro-
nounce it the
best Sauce.
Fears no com-
petition. A mar-
vel of cheapness
end enterprise.
Suitable to the
invrdid’s cup of
ibroth.
Beware of oclour-
ablo imitations.
H.R.H. the Prince of
Wales has recently ex.
pressed himself as highly
1 'eased with it.
SOLD EVERYWHERE.
V r, 'C!taale Agents —TILLOCK & Co.. Kent
and Liverpool Streets,* Sydney, N.S.W.
The Itriiish and Sew South Wales Investment
and Financial Co., Limited.
Incorporated under the Companies’ Act, 1874.
Capital, £250,000.
Sydney Office: 240 PITT STREET.
TFILLS DISCOUNTED and Immediate Advances granted
Daily. Country communications promptly attended
to. The following Kates of Interest are allowed for Fixed
With a Guaranteed Bonus on Renewals of Twelve Months
and over.
By order of the Board.
W. M‘DONALD, Manager.
SMOKE NOTHING BUT
PIPES.
a
a
PIPES.
THE BEST IN THE WORLD.
——o
Wholesale Agents :
JULIUS GOLDSCHMIDT & CO.,
231 Clarence Street.
First Prize-MELBOURNE EXHIBITION.
Business Announcements.
ANDREW KING & CO.,
Wholesale Soft Goods Importers and Warehousemen,
FLINDERS STREET, MELBOURNE,
Opposite H I)*ou’s Bay Railway Station.
HTS old-established house was opened to the Public last Monday as the “MODERN
FAMILY WAREHOLTSE,” when the rooms were rushed and the doors had to be
closed.
The Press and the Public have pronounced the Opening Day the Greatest Success
ever achieved in Victoria.
The Goods required no pushing, so Customers were not annoyed by salesmen.
Plain Figures and Good Value at once convinced Purchasers of the advantages to
be gained by buying from a Wholesale House ; and now ANDREW KING & CO. take
position of
Premier Drapers in Victoria,
a
Parcels delivered at Railway Station on apposite side of street, so that you can do
your shopping in shorter time and with more satisfaction by calling at the “ MODERN
FAMILY WAREHOUSE” as you come into town than by going elsewhere.
Note. — The present Stock is being Sold very much under Wholesale Cost, and
Householders should not neglect this rare opportunity of replenishing their stocks.
Lengths and Quantities to suit all. No Second Prices.
Terms Strictly Cash.
Country Orders promptly attended to, and Squatters’ Parcels made and sent by return .
Note Address ;
cc
The Modern Family Warehouse,
OPPOSITE HOBSON'S BAY STATION.
"sfG
■
»-
TISfC
s
SRC
r
rnn
Metropoee
Bent, PHillip & Young Streets, Sydney.
—THE—
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL
FIRE
Insurance Society.
Established ... ... 1872.
Bonuses
OF
20 per cent. Paid Annually
since 1873.
m
B
r
'
Head Office
—THE
Oldest Mutual Fire Office
in Australia.
Claims promptly and liberally
settled. Fifteen days’ grace
allowed for Renewal of Policies.
Lowest Current Rates charged.
lion. George Thornton, M.L.C.,
Chairman.
Head Office:
Corner Pitt Sc King Streets,
SYDNEY.
Walter Church ... Manager.
Medical.
PULVERMACHER’S WORLD-
FAMED GALVANIC BELTS
FOII THE CURE OP
Nervous Exhaustion and Debility, Sciatica,
Lumbago, Rheumatism, &c„
HAVE received Testimonials from Three
Physicians to Her Majesty the Queen and
the Leading Physicians of many London Hospi-
tals, including over Forty Members of the Royal
College of Physicians of London.
For full Price-list and particulars, see new pam-
phlet “ Galvanism : Nature’s Chief Restorer of
Impaired Vital Energy.” Pamphlets Free.
Sole Agents for N.S.W.,
FROST <Sc SHIPHAM
ELECTRICIANS,
474 & 587 George Street, Sydney.
Sole Agents for Victoria:
ALLISON BROS., 477 Collins-strebt West, Melbourne.
SMITH, XJ.S.A.,
MEDICAL EXPERT
In PRIVATE COMPLAINTS of BOTH SEXES.
A Prompt and Safe Cure Guaranteed.
CONSULTING ROOMS:
Nos. 7 Sc 8 First Floor, 482 GEORGE STREET,
SYDNEY.
Hours : ... From 11 a.m. till 4 p.m.
Business Announcements.
m*
UMBRELLAS
RE-COVE R£o.
ctudy economy
L and
Have your Umbrella Frames
Re-Covered, and your
Parasols Re-Lined and made
Equal to New, at
J. SULLIVAN’S,
541 George Street,
Brickfield Hill, Sydney,
bet ireen
l.iverpool <£• Bathurst Sts ,
Parasols made to match Cos-
tumes. Repairs neatly done.
PAPER-HANGINGS,
Oils,Colours * Paints
WALLPAPERS from & roll
PAI
529 George
Brickfield Hill,. ——
Tliomas floss,
TOBACCO &. CIGAR IMPORTER,
27 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
(Corner of Pitt Street.)
A large stock of Genuine llavaiiitnii Cigars, of the
choicest Brands to select from.
Sole Importer of the Celebrated •• Ffor <le |{<m ito ”
Brand of Cigars and •• Empire Cigarettes.”
f«TY MUTUAL FIRE INSURANCE
COMPANY. Limited.
Established 1877.
Capital ... £s<mm>oo.
Head Office;
25 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY.
A Cash Bonus of 10 per cent, is paid to Policyholders
on renewals every year. Insurances covering Loss by Fire,
Lightning or Gas Explosion at Lowest Rates.
The DIVIDEND of 8 PER CENT, to 31st December,
1889, is now being paid, and the BONUS ot 10 PER
CENT, to Policyholders will, as usual, be paid on re-
newal of their policies.
Money to Lend on Approved Security.
N.B. —The Bonus paid is equal to that paid by any
Fire Company in Sydney.
ROBERT KERR, Manager.
Sydney Canister Works,
COLLINS STREET, SURRY HILLS,
OFF CROWN STREET.
Manufacturers of allk nds of Tinsfor Confectioners*
Tea Merchants, Biscuit Makers, &c., also all kinds
of Tins, round and square, for Pepper, Spice and
Baking Powder, made by improved machinery.
A- Trial Solicited.
CITY & COUNTY
Investment, Laxid. nncl Buildixig
Company, LimitedL.
Authorised Capital, £lOO,OOO ... Reserves and Uncalled Capital, £37,000.
Ratbs for DKrosrrs: 12 months, 7 par cent.; 0 months, CJ per cent.; at call, 5 per cent.
Bonus to 12 months’ Depositors.
Direators: J. Garrard, M.P., Hon. J. 11. Young, M.P., J. P. Walkbr, J.P., John C. Hamilton.
J. U. Ward, Manager, 327 Pitt-street, Sydney.
BANK.
327 IP I T T STREET, SYDNEY.


The Bulletin
Vol. 11- No. 52G.
SATURDAY, ~MABCH~ 15, 1890.
Price, Gl.
...Vw
“THE DANE.”


The Bulletin
The national Australian Newspaper,
“Australia for the Australians. ,•
Proprietors: BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO.,
Limited.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 21 Pitt-street, Sydney, New South W ales.
terms to subscelders _
(payable in advance, only).
Per Annum £lO 0
Half-yearly 0 12 6
Quarterly 0 6 G
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Macleod, Managing Director.
Literary Communications to be addressed to J. F.
Archibald.
The Editor will carefully read and acknowledge in tne
“ Correspondence ” column all contributions submitted—
whether in the form of Political, Social, or other Articles,
Verse, Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in
length, or say 3000 words, arc specially acceptable).
Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper-Clippings. AIL
communications will be regarded as strictly confidential.
“ The Bulletin ” will return all unavailable MSS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we
desire those sending MSS. to distinctly undci stand that
we are not responsible for the preservation or transmission
of such MSS.
NOTICE.
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty Shillings
sterling—which you may pay by Post Office Order, One
Pound Note, or Stamps of any Australian colony—you
can ha ve The Bulletin posted regularly to you every week
for a year.
This offer is not open to residents of Sydney. In that
city The Bulletin is not delivered by mail, but is entirely
in the hands of our carriers, with whom we do not icish
to interfere.
TBxxlle&n.
SATURDAY. MARCH 15, 1890.
Henry George.
We cordially greet Henry George. Never
mind about the Mister. Many a title struts
about the world receiving obeisances. The
thing it covers dies ; it enwraps some
“thing'* else, and still the obeisances con-
tinue without alteration. When His Lord-
ship dies, the world turns on its heel to
salute My Lord. When Henry George
dies, Mr. Garland, M.P., will not be able
to put on the Georgian brain-pan and claim
that now he is Henry George. We greet
Henry George as a man, indeed; a man
with a soul in first-class working order, and
with an intellect of exceptional force. That
is our limit, however. We do not, with the
excellent Mr. Plumb, M.P., consider that
Henry George is inspired in the sense
which is understood of .Jesus Christ. Nor
can we fall in with Mr. Garland where, in
a burst of enthusiasm, he signified that
Henry George is Jesus Christ reincar-
nated. But we recognise that Mr. Garland
did not really mean what his choice of w r ords
conveyed. He is often taken that way.
“ Ecce Homo!” said Mr. Garland, clapping
Henry George on the shoulder. Humph !
# * *
Having thus defined our appreciation of
Henry George, we shall not, we trust, be
regarded as blasphemous, or even as arro-
gantly pretentious, in venturing to differ
from him on certain points, and in even
essaying to convey to him information which
we are directly in the way of acquiring, and
which it is scarcely possible' that he could
have, unless he were indeed inspired to the
full .extent claimed for him by Mr. Plumb,
M.P. We may indeed pretend to some
title to hold familiar discourse with Henry
George. It fell to our lot to be the first
among Australian journals to recognise the
significance of his theme, the unsurpassed
power of Ims literary style, the nobility of
Ins aim, and the portentousness of his pro-
posals. It became our function to introduce,
him, so far as his intellectual part is con-
cerned, to the people of Australia. We en-
joyed the privilege of proclaiming our
acquiescence in the fundamental ethics of
his system, and of maintaining his single-
minded integrity of purpose, at a time when
the Podsnaps of Australian journalism, after
vainly essaying to obliterate him from
creation, by suppressing all references to
him and the political theories of which he
was exponent, mentioned him only to sneer
at him as a humbug or to hiss at him as a
political Fagin who had opened an academy
where students were taught how to rob.
# * *
Between an assent to the exposition of a
wrong, and an agreement in a particular
plan for remedying the evil, there is a clear
distinction. We found ourselves, from the
first, unable to concur with Henry Georges
Single-tax proposals as regards the pre-
ferential applicability of that scheme to
Australian communities. After seven years’
interval we see no reason to depart from the
qualifications with which we, at the first,
limited our agreement with Geokge’s teach-
ings. The case, then, stands thus : Henry
George undertakes to demonstrate that
“The Cause of Industrial Depressions, and
of Increase of Want with Increase of
Wealth” is Private Ownership of Land. We
agree, with meiely the substitution of an
article. For “the cause” we substitute “a
cause.” There is, so far as a close ex-
amination and mature consideration have
disclosed, positively no fatal flaw in
the whole chain- of reasonings which
George forges to demonstrate his doctrine.
There is, we think, one weak link. Book
11., which deals with the Malthusian theory
respecting Population and Subsistence, and
which controverts that theory, has never
appeared to us conclusive, either mathemati-
cally or logically. We have consequently at
no time invited our readers to accept the
entire argument unreservedly. We have
suggested that each should severally scru-
tinize that dubious link before trusting his
intellectual existence to the chain as a whole.
For our own part, we accept the link. Ad-
mitting that it may be imperfect, so far as
logic and mathema ics are concerned, we
have submitted it to our private test —one
which we concede we have no right to
expect others to accept as adequate for their
purpose. We have applied the test of faith
—“the evidence of things not seen.” If
Malthus be correct—if it be, indeed, true
that population" inevitably increases at a
greater ratio than subsistence—then indeed
“man is born to mourn,” and the existence
of a Benevolent Supreme Being is a fiction
an invention of priests. If Malthus be
accurate in his contention, and George
wrong, then we can < nly conjecture that the
great conflict of which Milton sung has
been renewed, with a reversal of its former
result, and that Satan, victorious and exult-
ing, sits enthroned in Heaven, and gloats
over the inevitable miseries of that human
race whom the Son of God once descended
to save.
# * *
Substantially, we are in accord with
George’s demonstration that private pro-
perty in land is a grievous evil, and must be
abolished before the mischiefs of the present
social derangements can be totally removed.
We are in agreement as to the remedy.
“ We must make land common property.”
The woids are George’s and the italics
are his also. But how 1 By what method 1
Here, as regards Australia, we part company.
George proposes the Single-tax. Now,
curiously enough, despite the amount of
writing and talking which has been done of
late with respect to this Single-tax method,
its precise application is scarcely understood.
The spokesmen and writers of the N.S.W.
League have been unfortunately so exceed-
ingly full of their subject, or so diffident of
the effect which their proposal would have
upon the public mind, that they have
wrapped up the essence of their system in a
cloud We doubt whether Henry
George will be equally solicitous to break
the news gently. Anyhow, it will be suffi-
cient to explain the matter in his own words.
“It is not necessary to confiscate land. It is
only necessary to confiscate rent.” The italics
are again his own. George makes no shuttle
about the thing. “I do not propose,” he
explains, “ either to purchase or to confiscate
private property in land. The first would
be unjust (our italics this time); the second
needless. Let the individuals who now hold
it still retain, if they want to, possession of
what 'they are pleased to call their land.
Let them buy and sell, and bequeath and
devise it. We may safely leave them the
shell, if we take the kernel.” This is down-
right. Most readers of the recent lucubra-
tions of the Single-taxers will read the above
with surprise. There has been so much
shuffling : so much has been hinted of the
Single-tax signifying merely a shilling or
two in the pound of annual value, that the
majority of readers will probably scarcely
believe that this is the Single-tax. There is
no mistake. It is not a tax upon rent. It
is a tax of rent. To put the matter beyond
all doubt or cavil, it is only necessary to
quote another sentence from “ Progress and
Poverty,” a few lines further on than the
sentences already quoted. The italics are
again our marking : —“ We already take
some rent in taxation. We have only to
make Some changes in our modes of taxa-
tion to take it all.” The singleness of this
tax is merely a corollary. The total appro-
priation of rent is to be effected by degrees.
And other taxation is to be abolished in
the same progressive ratio until all rent is
confiscated and all other imposts removed.
The existing landowners arc to be permitted
to be still nominal proprietors, there being
allowed to them just so much of the rentals
as will serve as salaries to them for discharg-
ing the function of tax-gatherers. This, we
need scarcely point out, would be a distinct
violation of the Freetrade principle of buy-
ing in the cheapest market. Chinamen
would discharge the duties more cheaply.
# * *
Henry George remarked that one of the
local journals had referred to him as a san-
guine man. There is no trace of an over-
sanguine disposition in “ Progress and
Poverty.” The author does not fix a date
when any nation is likely to adopt his pro-
posals. In his speech at the banquet given
to welcome him, ho referred to his followers
as “ men of the future.” They may accept
the assurance of our conviction that it is a
future very remote. It is the misfortune of
philosophers that they look too steadfastly
on the stars. Henry George informed his
followers the other night that they had
“ hitched their waggon to the stars.’ True
enough, so they have. And they will never
reach up to unhitch it. That waggon will
do no travelling.
* #
That Nationalisation of the Land will be
among the reforms which social progress
will accomplish there is every ground for
believing. But that it will be effected by
the Single-tax method appears improbable.
The narrowing of the application to the
Single-tax will, we believe, as regards Aus-
tralia, have the effect -of indefinitely post-
poning the accomplishment of Land Na-
tionalisation which otherwise might have
been realised within an appreciably limited
time. George has a limit to the scope of
his information. Being human —-Messrs.
Plumb and Garland notwithstanding —his
intellect is finite. It was not possible for
him to comprehend all the conditions existent
in all the countries of the world. He
generalised on a general fund of informa-
tion. Hence the applications of his prime
project are good in some cases and faulty in
others. As regards the countries of Europe
it is correct to decide that it would be use-
less to compensate landowners and confiscate
their land. Taking, as ho repeatedly does,
the United Kingdom as a case in point, it
might be true that for the nation to buy the
territory of the island from the 38,000 or so
of persons who monopolise it would be
merely “ to give the landholders, in another
form, a claim of the same kind and amount
that their possession of land now gives them :
it would be to raise for them by taxation the
same proportion of the earnings of labour
and capital that they are now enabled to
appropriate in rent. This would be abso-
lutely true were full value given for all the
advantages which inhere to possession of
land. For, it is the essence of the entire
argument that possession of land invests the
owners with the power to extort everything
they desire from the landless. Possession
of land, therefore, involves a potential com-
mand of all wealth existing or to be created
in the future, and full value for the land
could be nothing less than an equal poten-
tiality. That is to say, the price would be
such a capital sum as would demand from
the people living at the time of sale, and
from all posterity, just as much by way of
taxation or tribute to the sellers and their
heirs as could be exacted if the land were
still in their possession.”
* # *
But this is obviously an overstrained
argument. It neglects to take into con-
sideration a fact germane to the question.
Land has a selling or market value altogether
below the exhausting terms just described.
Land in Great Britain can be bought at a
capital value represented by a definite num-
ber of years’ rental. It is possible to calcu-
late how many years would be requisite with
compound interest charged, for the nation to
possess the land after purchase before it
came into enjoyment of the rentals. We do
not assert that any nation in which the land
is altogether or chiefly in private - hands is
likely to adopt that plan of nationalising it.
But it is just as unlikely that any nation
will have recourse to the Single-tax. To
dispossess private owners will be an opera-
tion so enormous that no motive force less
than prodigious will effect it. It will be a
social cataclysm, and only a social cataclysm
will effect it. In fact, only in course of a
revolution is it conceivable that so revolu-
tionary a charge can be wrought. And when
that revolution conies there will be no veneer
of Single-tax adjusted to cover the plain fact.
The people—the nation—will simply seize
the land, confiscate it. They will not be
terrified by hard names—for the people of
France seized the Royal domains and con-
fiscated the estates of the Church and the
Emigres. But, thanks to the teachings of
Henry George, the revolutionaries of the
future will be wiser than the French of the
the past. They will not confiscate to sell.
They will nationalise what they confiscate—
all the land.
* * #
In Australia, too, we must now, it
would seem, wait for the revolution.
The Single-taxers, who, knowing local con-
ditions and local opportunities, should
have been advisers in this matter to
their teacher, have wrecked the chances
of land nationalisation. They are but
a wing of the army of land-nationalism's
in Australia. In New South Wales, where
not more than one - fourth of the land
is alienated from the State, and where,
owing to progressive additions of facilities
for access and other national works in a new
country, the value of the unalienated
portion is constantly rising, it would
have been feasible to nationalize while
giving compensation for present values
of every acre yet parted with. The greater
would have served to buy back the lesser.
The opposition of land-owners would have
been infinitely less strenuous. It would not
have been so desperate as must be the
resistance to the Single-tax method, which
proposes to seize ail and make no conces-
sion.
«= * *
But, above all, the Single-taxers here have
ruined the cause and rendered it hopeless by
allying themselves with the Freetrade party.
No scheme of Land Nationalisation could be
constitutionally adopted there which de-
pended on the voluntary consent of the
rural population. The propelling force
would have to be furnished by a mass of
urban proletarians, landless and hopeless of
land. This body could only be called into
existence and maintained by Protection.
The idea that under existing conditions
or under any which can arise under
Freetrado within a time worth now con-
sidering, there can be a realisation of
land nationalisation in New South Wales
is the dream of a heated imagination.
The plunder is not yet half appropriated.
To begin with, the landowner in possession to
be convinced, peacefully perhaps, that it will
be better for him to give it up, than to con-
tinue one of those of whom the Brahmins,
as quoted by George himself, spake thus ;
“To whomsoever the soil at any time be-
longs, to him belong the fruits of it. White
parasols and elephants mad with pride are
the flowers of a grant of land.” Next,
the landless have to be induced, so have all
the unalienated public lands withheld from
their own appropriation. But Plenry
George has been fatally eloquent. He has
too forcibly shown the enormous advantage
possessed over his fellows by the owners of
land, for persons so fortunate to readily
abandon their privileges. ‘Yet has he
planted a seed which shall yet. blossom into
a mighty tree. But, first, blood shall water
it, and tears. He may safely say to his book,
in the language of Robert Southey :-s~
Go, little hook, from this my solitude,
I cast thee on the waters :
And if, as I believe, thy theme be good,
The world shall find thee after many days.
After many days, oh, impatient ones ! After
many days !
Sane or Insane?
The case of Arthur Willoughby Andrew, who
murdered Bartlett in November last and was
sentenced to death by Judge Manning in Sydney
a couple of weeks ago, forcibly illustrates one of
the difficulties which advocates for capital punish-
ment are from time to time obliged to meet. It
happens occasionally that a man who has taken
the life of another is admitted on all hands to
have been mad at the time. No purpose, divine,
human, or diabolic, was disclosed by the deed. In
the old schoolmen’s phrase, the deed was the act
of a man, but not a human act. Here these advo-
cates can run a straight course—they imprison
such a murderer. Again it happens that a man
who has committed murder is recognised as one
possessing average reason, who shows that he took
life to benefit himself in some tangible way. He
murdered for money or as a means to some other
end, the attainment of which would add to his
material comfort or gratify an intelligible desire.
Here also these advocates have a clear course —
they hang that man.
* * *
Now comes the sea of difficulties against which
they in vain “ take up arms.” Between the man
whose madness is patent and him whose sanity is
patent are a host like Andrew. between the
pillar of darkness and the pillar of light these swing
to and fro. From side to side they oscillate, as
winds of events blow. They are sane in the morning
and in the evening insane ; sane in many matters,
insane in a few : sane sometimes in all things save
in one. One man, sane in every other way,
believed himself the Redeemer ; another, at the
same period and otherwise sane, denied that his
contemporary was the Redeemer, as he himself
was Odd and in a position to know. A man,
doing efficiently a large mercantile business, be-
lieves that a canary lives within his head, and
stops work regularly to hear it singing. A Ballarat
digger, competent for all duties, believes his
stomach is lined with specimens of golden quartz.
Persons, sane otherwise, believe themselves de-
prived of certain organs or pow’ers though the
organs or powers are in robust life. Persons
swing from sanity to insanity at the sound of cer-
tain voices or the sight of certain things. They
swing back when the excitement ceases.
# # #
Have wo a science to classify these ? Are they
to be counted among the sane or the insane when
some special act of their’s comes up for judgment?
They can do their daily work if their baneful
hallucination be withheld. This may enter
through their physical senses; it may enter
through the doors of their mental apprehension ;
but while it is inside mind or body they are its
slaves. Erasmus, the wit who fed Luther, fell
into a fever if a fish came before him. He yelled
and kicked and was for the time being a maniac.
Boyle, the subtle sceptic, became frantic when he
heard water gurgling. While the moon was
eclipsed Bacon, the statesman and philosopher,
became a maudlin idiot and wept like a child.
Sane men have become mad at the sight
of a cat; mad men have grown sane
at the sight of one. And as with things
appealing to the physical senses, so with things
occurring to the imagination. Even more so.
Martin Luther turned aside from the moral
bitumen of life to have an hour’s duel with the
Father of Fire. Hoof and horns became facts
against the wall. Loyola rose from an hour of
prayer to the third heaven. The glittering thrones
were visible and the rippling songs audible to him.
Socrates, after seeing his young friends home
from the pub., continued his reflections with a
guardian spirit which watched over his career.
Damien, who died the other day on the Leper
Island, no doubt talked with seraphs and shook
hands with the martyrs who were stoned and
burned in times gone by.
# # #
Now, we want to know where we have a science
to tell us what sanity is, and what is not sanity.
The question is not how the attribute exercises it-
felf. It may accomplish a self-sacrificing heroism,
may commit a larceny, may perpetrate a murder.
The question we ask does not see the accomplish-
ment. It concerns itself with the state of mind
and body only. 'l'wo men, similarly affected, may
issue into acts directly contrary—one good, the
other bad. We ask those who say they have a
moral right to kill a sane and spare an insane man
where there exists a science which enables them to
fasten responsibility on a man when his hallucina-
tion eventuates in one thing and to withhold it
when the result differs. A Sydney daily paper, in
discussing Andrew’s case, admits that there is no
conclusive science available. It indicates that Law
wants the man hanged, because he was convicted
in accordance with its forms, but that Medicine
reveals some doubts as to whether Law should be
allowed to prevail, and makes it very evident that
its own sympathies are on the side of Medicine.


But that is all. It gives no clue to such a
science. It throws the burden of hanging or
reprieving on the Executive, but, recognising the
limitations of knowledge among that body and the
means of knowledge open to it, it counsels that
in the final deliberation an ear should be held open
to the voice of public opinion. We are the last to
demur to that counsel, given in general circum-
stances. At a time when the Executive was
supposed to be a sort of registrar for the
judge who presided at the trial we con-
tended that as soon as a capital case left
the court it was the property of the public and the
Crown equally, and that the Executive was con-
stitutionally bound to the two voices—of the dead
who made laws and of the living who make them.
What, however, we find fault with in our contem-
porary’s advice is the utter uselessness of it given
for the purpose that paper has in view.
* * *
For what does it come to ? The newspaper
argues that a man who commits murder should be
hanged, and that an insane murderer should be
merely imprisoned. In the case it discusses it
admits that scientific accuracy is unattainable.
How, then, can this man in the present state of
our Knowledge be relegated to one class or the
other? If Andrew’s friends were wealthy and
influential they would be able to produce an in-
fluential medical opinion on one side for everyone
produced on the other. We have not, we con-
tend, the requisite technical machinery to enable
us to arrive at even the lowest degree of moral
certainty. We did nob get it by appealing to the
first jury. That body of men disagreed. We did
not get it by appealing to the second jury, be-
cause, although that body agreed as one it recom-
mended at the same time that the prisoner’s life
should be spared. We got no evidence of it
when last Thursday the Executive first sat on
on the question. We cannot get it however we
labour along present lines. The Executive is as
helpless as tire juries, the public is as helpless as
cither. ( bserve that his crime must be inter-
preted in tho'light of his antecedents and not his
antecedents in the light of his crime.
* * *
We make the advocates for capital punishment
a present of the difficulty. If Andrew be sane
and they spare his life they commit a crime against
the law which they prize so highly ; if the man be
insane, they commit an outrage on humanity by
sending him to the gallows. If he be sane and be
spared he will stand as a stultification of the de-
claration that it is indispensable to society to kill
murderers ; if he be insane and Vie hanged—if
there be a well-grounded suspicion that he is in-
sane and be hanged—the stultification of these
social teachers will be as complete. Cases such as
Andrew’s show the danger which besets a
society which claims the right to punish capitally.
That society will from time to time be obliged to
confess that it does not know whether to hang or
spar,e. In spasms of blind anxiety it will turn
hither and thither, seeking help from sources as
feeble as itself. In the end it will plunge at a
conclusion, with the result that it may be the sane
man who will be reprieved, and the insane one
who will be swung in the air as an example to
evil-doers.
» * #
Look at the case of Tester, convicted at Denili-
quin (N.S. W.) of murder. He was a solitary man,
a reputed crank, and lived alone in a hut, where he
was the butt of the children hard by. One day
the children came and threw sticks at his hut. He
rushed out with an axe and killed the first one
he overtook, and was convicted and sentenced
to death. A medical commission reported him
sane and he was hanged. The medical com-
mission at the same time reported a con-
victed horse-stealer, who was alleged to have
shown signs of insanity, to be perfectly
sane. Shortly afterwards that horse-stealer
escaped from gaol and drowned himself, and at
the post-mortem the surgeon found in his brain a
large tumour —the inference was irresistible, and
the moral as applied to I’ester’s case over-
whelming. You cannot examine the brain of a
living man, mad or sane, and even if you could it
would probably teach you no more than the
Sphinx. “ I have examined thousands of brains,”
said a medical man to us not long ago, and I may
tell you that medical science is as impotent to in-
terpret the appearances of the human brain as it
was on the day when Cain killed his brother
Abel.”
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The “Guardian” on the Rampage.
There is a delicious inconsequence in the selection
made in London of items to be cabled out to suit
the Tory appetite of the Herald-Argus combina-
tion in Sydney and Melbourne. Last week, for
some inscrutable reason, the expense was incurred
of telegraphing the information that Sir Jas.
Ingham, a Bow-street police magistrate, was dead.
Why it should be conjectured that Australians
take an interest in the personnel of the Bow-
street establishment is beyond us. The two
Australian Tory journals have generally taken
great pains to secure the services of men well
behind the times. But in this instance
they appear to have obtained in London
the ministrations of a journalistic Rip Van
Winkle who has awakened from a dose of an
hundred years, and conceives that in Australia
the keenest interest is felt respecting all that
concerns Bow-street “runners” and Bow-street
“beaks."’ In the same day’s batch of cablegrams
information of a diverting character is afforded
with respect to the expressions of the Guardian,
organ of the Church of England, anent the divorce
legislation of the colonies. This sagacious journal
gravely announces that “the colonists are loyal
so long as they are not opposed.” So far we
have no objection to urge, save that the opinion
might have been more neatly conveyed by a
quotation. But we presume that so serious a
paper as the Guardian would shudder to quote
from a “ stage - play.” However, we supply
tljp omission. The colonists, according to the
resemble Sir Anthony Absolute.
Bear the Knight:—“ You know I am compliance
itself—when 1 am not thwarted —no one more
easily led—when I have my own way.” The
Guardian is a bit of an Absolute itself. Aban-
doning hope that the I ’Worce Bill of New South
Wales and of Victoria will be vetoed by the
the oonducto'S of this organ simply
suggests that “the clergy” of Australia should
boycott everyone who had any hand in this legis-
lation. Not only this, jxut they are to invite the
Almighty to join in tlw, boycott. They are to re
fuse the Communion to bmarried divorced persons,
whom they politely refer to as “adulterers,” and
tlmy are “ to deny the religious and social stat us of
Persons passing an unchristian law of Divorce.”
Boor old dears! The clerical editors evidently
tail to realize that in Australia there are no
“ clergy ” in the English sense of the word—that
the frown of the .ector and the cold shoulder of
tt.c curate do not blast tbe prospects of anyone
resident in “the parish ” accustomed to a Parlia-
ment, membership of which implies compliance
with all the outward respectabilities and a distinct
social position; it has not occurred to them to
imagine the shocking existence of colonial Parlia-
ments so nearly representative that three-fourths
of its members have neither religious nor social
status, and don’t desire to have either. To de-
prive Australian legislators of their social status
would be an operation very much akin to “ taking
the breeks off a hielandman.’ 1 Besides, in Aus-
tralia forty-parson power would be ineffectual to
disturb the “social status” of anyone who pos-
sessed the article. And as for the divine boycott
proposed, in Australia the Almighty has more
sense than His servants attribute to Him in Great
Britain.
The Hihilists’ Latest.
The discovery of a batch of Nihilists charged with
bombs, within the precincts of the Czar’s palace,
is devoid of novelty. Incidents of the kind are
trite and excite little interest in anyone except,
perhaps, the Czah. That potentate appears un-
able to accustom himself to his habitual surround-
ings, and has never broken himself of the spinsterly
habit of looking under the bed, before he retires
to rest, for a man. The persistence of the Nihilists
in- assaying t) give their fc overeign a good blow-
ing-up for his misgovernment seems scarcely
attributable to defective originality. They adapt
themselves to circumstances with considerable
dexterity. Whenever the mighty ruler of the
Russian Empire ventures to put his nose out of
doors they generally have everything in readiness
to blow it —off. But as the monarch prefers,
everything considered, to stay at home the greater
part of his time, the Nihilists are under the neces-
sity of taking him as they find him. Hence
their somewhat monotonous habit of prowling
into the palaces. There appears reason to
believe that they gain access to these sacred
precincts by the ingenious device of pre-
tending for several years ostentatiously to
be the meanest sort of sycophantic toadies. Their
superlative possession of those qualities coming to
the knowledge of their sovereign, he, of course,
feels a pleasure in creating them C.M.G.’s. This
rank makes them free of the palace kitchen
entrance, and it naturally follows that they “get
into the soup” immediately. But the Nihilists
apparently begin to weary of the tedium of getting
caught just as they approach within bombing
of their object, and their latest device
for obviating this tiresome monotony reflects
credit upon their genius for intrigue. The scheme
now is to dispatch moribund brethren to the
United States, readied up with death-bed confes-
sions of the most ingenuous kind. The expiring
plotter, when he feels his last hour approach,
sends for the Russian consul, or any other person
in official position if the Russian consul should
happen not to be sober. To the person who
attends the Nihilist confesses his complicity in a
widespread plot to assassinate the Czar in the
midst of his most inaccessible retirement. The
confession implicates every one of the Czar’s per-
sonal attendants and courtiers whom the Nihilists
regard as really devoted to him and obstructive to
their designs. As experience has already con-
vinced his Majesty that none amongst his entourage
are to be so little trusted as those who seem most
worthy of trust, he promptly dispatches the persons
thus compromised, to Siberia. Their places being
thus made vacant, other persons have to be
honoured with appointment to the positions. The
Nihilists calculate that it will be# cold day when
they don’t get half-a-dozen of the brethren selected
out of every twelve thus chosen; and by reason-
able perseverance in the dying confession dodge
they may reasonably hope in due course of time to
remove from around the person of the Czar
everyone who would be too officious when a patriot
skipped up the stairs with a bomb in his hand and
a prussic-acid pill in his mouth. Things will come
to such a pass in Gatchina Palace shortly that His
Imperial Majesty will not be able to indulge his
high prerogative of kicking an aide-de-camp, for
fear that the functionary may be equipped with a
percussive mine in the seat of his pantaloons.
-*
The Present Position of Western
Australia.
Whatever good may eventually arise from the
federation farce lately played to an unappreciative
audience in Melbourne, one thing it has plainly
brought to the surface, and that is, .that in the
central and western colonies of the federation,
there still exists a sentiment more congenial
to the roaring forties than to the year 1890. For
a spirit of stubborn conservatism commend us to
the delegates who represented the territorially
Large colonies of the western half of Australia. In
discussing the sentiments expressed by them, be
it understood that these remarks aye not based
upon either the merits or demerits of federation—
let that be put on one side in order to see what
sort of metal we have to deal witlrin the coming
co-operative continental freetrade-cim-protective
federation. Western Australia was represented
by a gentleman called Lee Steere, and as a
delegate from a Crown colony and an old and
respected resident therein, we may accept him
as fairly representative. To say that his re-
marks were characterised by a narrow provincial
spirit would be to say only the naked, truth ; but
let us see what Mr. Lee Steere’s notions are, or
were, about the disposal of his own colony. To
him we are indebted for the brilliant idea, taken
up and repeated by an ignorant London press,
that the division of the colony under the new
Enabling Bill should be longitudinally, from north
to south. With the staring example of South
Australia and her Northern Territory white
elephant before his eyes; with the knowledge
which should have been taught by a century of
Australian colonisation, namely, that boundary-
lines in a country covering such climatic differ-
ences as Australia must always be latitudinal, a
fact that is patent even now in Queensland ; this
proposition was ad vanced by a Western Australian
colonist. The line of demarcation thus laid
down would result in the creation of a new colony
acting as a buffer between Western Australia
and her Eastern rivals. A colony without a
harbour, without a river, almost without a creek ;
a dull, flat monotony of land, good under certain
rare conditions for pastoral purposes, useless for
anything approaching close settlement. So much
for the Southern portion. Of the Northern, the
Kimberley district, it is scarcely likely that such
a one-sided connection would long be maintained—
the North, peopled and settled as it is by
colonists from the East, would soon cut the painter
and claim an independent position. The cherished
desire of Western Australia would then be accom-
plished, as tracts of confirmed no-man’s land
would exist between her borders and those of Imr
neighbours, and .enterprise and change would
effectually be retarded. From the days when the
inhabitants of the western settlement sneered at
the notion of Evhk attempting to find a highway
across from South Australia, even up to Jjjp present
the tame spirit of isolation seems to have
possessed them. To any tale of advantage to be
derived from closer communication with iheir
sisters in the east they turn a deaf ear. “We are
content as we are and we know much better than
you do about everything’’—this is the spirit
«H°w t° the outer world and the spirit in
w non they approached the conference, and until
t ie old leaven of Crown Colony Government with
all its Government-house traditions is rooted out,
i is the spirit in which they will always stand
aloof from the rest of Australia.
• ♦
The Quefcfca Disaster.
It is not possible to estimate the services rendered
by oamuel Plimsoll to the sailors of the
united Kingdom and to the travelling public,
lie took hold of a gigantic abuse firmly and with
both hands, and held it up in sight of all. The
tyranny and brutality of shipowners to those
in their employ, the heartless exaction of the
last possible point of service from men for the
smallest payment of wages and the least quan-
tity of the worst food on which life could be sus-
tained, were exposed by him fearlessly, in spite of
the denunciations of capitalist newspapers and in-
terested persons and companies. To him more
than to any other man in England is due the im-
provement that has taken place in the condition
of the seafaring workers generally. His dis-
closures regarding the rotten salt-horse and
rnaggotty biscuits, which, for the sake of
dividends were supplied to the unfortunate
sailors of last decade, and of the disease and fil-
thiness and misery in which the heartlessness of
money-grabbing masters involved them had an
electrical effect in urging forward reform and in-
ducing the victims of greed to organise and insist
upon better terms. But, more than this, he
induced intending travellers by sea to find out
before starting what the owners and captains were
like, and whether the vessels were seaworthy and
safe, whether they were really ever intended to
arrive at the ports for which they set forth, or
were merely rotten shells sent out to secure in-
surance - money with. Mr. Plimsoll showed
that there were plenty of ships whose owners did
not care a snuff what happened to them, and who
because of the insurance-offices were equal to
either fortune—ships through which one could
almost kick a hole, sent out loaded to the water’s
edge with heavily insured cargo, and carrying a
large number of human beings. All that has been
altered, and things are much more satisfactory
now. But there are still other matters to be seen
to. The British-India Company’s steamship
Quetta struck a rock, or, as some think, was rent
by a sudden explosion, the other day, and went to
the bottom of the sea in a few minutes. The crew
consisted largely of the cheap and particularly
nasty labourers which on “ business principles ”
so many large employers love to get hold of,
Lascars, Javanese, Hindoos, Cingalese, and the
like and there were among the passengers a good
many of these also. The percentage of whites saved
was very small, but the proportion of the others sur-
prisingly large. In the wild struggle for life that
ensued during the few minutes that followed the
first shock of the calamity, the coloured crew took
first place, and we are told that in some instances
they dispossessed whites of support to which they
were clinging and pushed them into the sea to
drown, io what extent this sort of thing was
done none can tell now, but by the number of Hin-
doos and lascars saved it is very evident that they
must have availed themselves of every possible
chance. This is a most serious matter, and one
which may well engage the attention of the Sea-
men’s Unions and of the travelling public. The
competition of Hindoos and Lascars is a serious
matter for the first, but a much more serious
matter for the last is the question of journeying
by sea with hordes of barbarians and fanatics who,
in no case, show any solicitude for other lives than
their own, and in many cases regard the
saving of a Christian from death as a
breach of religion. It is well known that,
times out of number, Cingalese and Hin-
doos have absolutely refused to move hand or
foot to save from death white sailors or passengers
when it was easy to do so. -What could be ex-
pected from them at a time when religious feeling
would naturally be at its strongest in view of the
possibility of immediate death, and when every
moment of time was of inestimable value ? It may
be well worth the while of white people not to
patronise vessels manned by mixed crew« of
coloured fanatics.
When the Duke of Wellington exhorted Our
Gracious Queen to keep the supreme command of
the British Army in her own Royal Family, the
old gentleman was wise—in his generation. He
breathed the spirit of the Napoleonic period when
a great captain could make or break the State.
Having seen royal dynasties founded by successful
soldiers, having himself been the greatest power in
England, i t appeared clear to his not very pene-
trating: mind that Yictokia Regina must remain
all right so long as a devoted cousin or son had
control of “Her Majesty’s Troops.” Military
gentlemen think more about the march of soldiers
than the march of time. They resolutely refuse
to contemplate the possibility of changes in the
military and civil relations one to another,
and at each democratic infringement upon
their conservative system the good old war-
riors shake their plumes and honestly be-
lieve that the Service is going to the
devil. Wellington lived and died a soldier of
the old school, an exceptionally successful Com-
mander-in-Chief, and therefore a man whose faith
in the personal power appertaining to his office
was unbounded. His advice to the Queen
amounted to this : “ Keep always in your family a
Duke of Wellington, who will control an ignorant
devoted Army in the interests of the Crown. ” As
the Army was, so it ever would be, in the Duke’s'
hereditary opinion—a great human machine
worked by Tory power for fighting foreigners
abroad and suppressing Radicals at home. The
late Emperor William of Germany had some
excuse for being no wiser when he died than the
Duke of Wellington was 40 years ago. To him
also it seemed that a glamour of success sur-
rounded the Commander-in-Chief and that a
combination of Commander and Crown must
necessarily be irresistible. “Get a strong hold
upon the affection of your Army, and you are safe, ”
said old grandfather Wilwam to his young cub
of a namesake, never thinking that the Army’s eyes
are opening wider every day, finding cause for
hatred and disgust where they once could see but
a vague cause for admiration. Already young
William has been advised to come down from his
military pedestal and endeavour to curry favour
with the German workmen. He is making a pat-
ronising ass of himself, still his action indicates a
desire to gain the respect of the Army through
the civilians. He discovers that to keep an un-
popular control of the Army in the Royal Family
is bad for the Family—d d bad for the Family.
Our Gracious Queen has not yet made that dis-
covery. Military questions don’t loom so large in
England as in Germany, consequently the Crown
remains in blissful ignorance of the fact that
Gam I*llllice, with his .Anglo German oaths and un-
warlike umbrella, drove several nails into the
monarch ial coffin. The Crown is obeying Wel-
lington’s instructions again in appointing Con-
naught to follow Gampridge in the supreme
command of Her Majesty’s troops. So much the
better. Her Majesty’s troops are sick, likewise
Her Majesty’s other subjects. When soldiers and
civilians agree to bo sick for the same reason, it is
only a question of time for that reason to be re-
moved. In this instance the Royal Family is the
reason.
The humbug of the Sunday-newspaper law in
Melbourne was proved by the two evening papers
(who have not been prosecuted jdeliberately breaking
it over the Quetta disaster, for they issued complete
newspapers, with Saturday night’s news improved
up to date. Lots of people bought them for the
Newmarket Handicap. Suppose Bailey had got
out his Sunday Times, of course he would have
been punished, for the law is only meant for him.
Surely the absurdity of the thing must be per-
ceived. No intelligence, however momentous,
may be published on Sundays ! London may
cave in with an earthquake. Nobody is to know
it, because it is Sunday! How long will such a
law last? Is it not amazing how a noisy little
compact minority, swaying elections, can coerce
the majority ?
Henry George.
The Prophet of San Francisco is not, in size and
colour, what his photograph led most people to
anticipate, but he is regarded, judging by public
manifestations of approval, quite up to sample as
a speaker. George is a small man, physically,
florid of complexion, with a gingery moustache
and beard, the latter white beneath the lip, with
small, but expressive steel-blue eyes, a powerful
dome-shaped head whose forehead threatens in
the saccharine.and sudden subsequently to know
no boundary but that provided by the laundry-
maid, and the hair that remains, like his whiskers
and beard, has the sun-and-air-dried, blown-about
appearance usually appertaining to that of sailors
and bush coach-drivers. His shoulders are broad;
his chest deep; his commissariat, capacious; sitting
behind a table he looks a big man, standing he is
much below middle height, for he has a long body
and short legs. His hand is small-boned and
white, with, like Parkes’, little force in its grip, but
he has a good grip of the land, as well as of the
land question. When speaking his mouth squares
and his cheeks bulge; evidently thinking slowly
and carefully on his feet, he walks the platform as
does a skipper the quarter-deck, with measured
steps and slow, and with an eye which ranges the
horizon now aloft and then below. George is,
moreover, a rugged, forcible speaker, as one
should be who aims to overthrow social barriers,
to tear down the edifices of privilege, who uses
language and works ponderously,
methodically, often monotonously, up to his
points, weighing every word, accentuating every
syllable, pausing lengthily at every comma and
semi-colon and doubly accentuating a full-stop by
standing stock still and fixing some waiting guest
with his glittering eye until he is perfectly sure
what is to be the gist of his next sentence. But
his points are made with irresistible power—the
preliminary tapping and shaping accomplished
the bolt is driven home with a sledge-hammer
stroke,- whose reverberations are invariably
drowned in a thunder-clap of applause. Off the
platform he is simple and unassuming and, so
far as we have been able to judge, does
not “ spread ” himself in conversation. George
has a dry humour permeated with a Mark
Twainish twang that treats what are accounted
“sacred subjects” with a so-called irreverence
to which most Australian audiences are
scarcely accustomed, but withal he is prone
to seek refuge when in straits in Biblical phrases,
in the “ Brotherhood of Man and the Fatherhood
of God ” formula, a position that scarcely dove-
tails with his views on the Chinese puzzle. * Provi-
dence has no more appropriate place in the argu-
ments of the political economist than in the dis-
coveries and deliberations of the scientist, and in
our opinion a Providence that doesn’t interfere
should not lie interfered with. Henry George,
with his American accent that to us has a strong
Scottish flavour about it, is rather too much of a
“preacher” to be considered a “great’’orator, and
will doubtless become slightly wearisome when one
is thoroughly familiarised with his manner and
matter. The parson has resorted to a sing-song
delivery because his theme is to him, as to his
audience, intensely wearisome, because he is
utterly incapable of throwing fresh light on the
.subject and wouldn’t be a preacher for five minutes
if he knew any easier way of getting an equally
good living. We do not catalogue Henry George
in this crowd of tired divines, but, pointing out
to him that the clerical method of speech has
been a dead failure, would earnestly advise
him to discard it. As for his opinions, no one can
deny that poverty exists, that it is not “ inevi-
table,” but the offspring of social conditions and
to be eliminated by their alteration, even if the
verity of his conclusions be denied. That Henry
George is always correct, thoroughly logical, is
not apparent ; for instance, he disapproves of
land-ownership, he believes in the communal
management of enterprises likely, from the
magnitude of their operations, to become mono-
polies, and yet denounces Socialism and Com-
munism. One illustration will serve our purpose.
At Sydney Protestant Hall, on the evening of his
first public lecture, he said :
Give labour access to natural opportunity—(cheers)
give labour freedom and it needs no protection. (Enthu-
siastic cheering, and a voice: “How about capital?”)
How about capital ? There can be no greater error than
to suppose that capital employs labour. How about capi-
tal ! Let me ask you where Adam got his capital from ?
Now, while quite agreeing with the postulate that
Capital does not employ Labour, but' Labour
Capital, we do not agree with the apparent deduc-
tion that given access to the land all other things
will come easy. Adam, “ the grand old gardener, ”
if he ever existed, was an ignorant barbarian, but
little better than an ape, without associations,
with few wants, who drank water from the spring
and plucked fruits from the tree, slept in a cave,
went naked, was easily satisfied, and had no com-
petitors. The gardener of to-day, settled on the
land in Adam’s position, would be utterly help-
less, would have a hopeless task. Without tools
and houseless and competing against the owner of
subsoil-ploughs, dam-sinkers, and seeds, and the
means to sustain life until production became
profitable, how could he exist ? Neither the
single-tax nor land-nationalisation are likely to
become largely beneficial while the means of tax-
ing human energy by the storage of the world’s
wealth in a few hands exists. It will probably bo
beneficial should it ever be put into practice, but,
instead of ending reform, it can only bo con-
sidered as one step higher on the endless staircase
of progression. It is to be hoped that Henry
George will live not only to see the fruits of his
labours flourish, but to devote his magnificent
abilities and energies to the carrying out of re-
forms dimly seen now, but with a wider horizon
then clearly recognised to be of the utmost
necessity.


A London writer says that every woman
has two incurable diseases: “One, that she is a
woman, the other that she is a fool.”
[?]
84C Macquarie-street North, Sydney, March 12, 1890.
My Dear Mooraiuxda, —
I wonder when we are to see the last of the practice of
“ making up ” beside the Beautiful Harbour ? Per-
haps -with the advent of some feminine society leader who
doesn’t go to the rouge-tablet for her blushes, or the puff
for her pallors, and whose lips are tinted cherry or boiled
beef according to the original idea. In which case one
anticipates her advent with joyful tears, for the most
fearsome makes-up are now the rule with us, and the
female who goes forth in gaslight or daylight doesn’t feel
comfortable unless she is painted like a singularly fero-
cious Red Indian on the gory war-path. At the orchestra l
concert the other day you couldn’t throw a brick without
hitting a fresco—and not carefully worked up, either, but
daubed on with an eye to broad effects of the scenic de-
scription, a black streak for lashes or brows, two sudden
splodges of vermilion on the cheek-bones, poppy-red lips,
the whole in a halo of pink or white face-powder, and
always coyly shrouded with a white complexion-fall. One
girl with marigolds in her hat had come out in a cosmetic
that turned pale-puce in the daylight, while her lip salve
■ remained bright red, and the contrast between mouth
and cheek was too fishy for words. But yet that girl
behaved as decorously as a middle-aged governess. That’s
the odd point about it. Any stranger looking round a
roomful of Sydney “art” visages might say to himself)
“ Gussie, you’ve struck something giddy.” But when
each daub turned on him a cold, ceremonious eye and each
aureolined head never pivoted in His direction, he would
feel as if he wanted several explanations all at once. And,
apropos of the absorbing question of “ make-up,” a local
paper in an article on “ Sydney Women ” decides that—
“ She believes that the art of man or woman cannot im-
prove upon the perfect outlines of nature, especially when
nature has bestowed graces with a fair hand, as will be
seen any day in the streets of Sydney.”
Quite a comfortable conclusion, only I must respectfully
submit that
The billowy, bounding buzzum that perambulates the
Block
(I hope the information will not cause too great a shock),
With the glittering white dentals and the rippling golden
curls
And the modulated blushes of our glorious Sydney girls,
Are as real as they make ’em —in the chemicals derided
The.bounding bust is cotton wool—the locksare peroxided,
The glassy teeth are moveable ; the blush wipes off when
faded,
Oh ! Sydney girls are quite content with Nature’s gifts
unaided !
With so many festivities in the immediate future,
should like to say a word in season on the exigencies of
full dress. For evening-wear the steel and small bag of
millet are still in demand, because tulle, net, and silks are
hang-dog materials and, once sat upon, scrunch up dread-
fully. One steel only is used, because a stiff muslin petti-
coat is now always worn with a ball-gown, which soon
looks very spineless without it. Russian nets (now pro-
curable in all colours) over silk slips will be general, but I
hear whispers of a revival of contrasting bodies and skirts
—an impossible style for any but the most perfectly-pro-
portioned women, remember. Flowers will be much
worn, but a more enduring fashion is to edge the corsage
with small ostrich-feathers—a cluster of plumes being
placed on the left shoulder and two or three on
the skirt. Feathers last longer and look more ful l
dressed than flowers— don’t you recollect the “ go ” of our
Nellie’s plumes in “Dorothy?”—but a good effect can be
got out of flowers if a woman doesn’t take it into her head
to imitate a sacrificial ox. This season all flowers wil l
start from the shoulder and trickle across the bodice on
to the skirt in chatelaine trails. As for the etceteras,
black gloves will appear again, or white Sutdes with white
gowns will be very “ swagger,” while the woman who
wants to be correct will wear gloves to match her shoes.
Here is a pretty possible toilette for a brunette. Cream"
coloured tulle en traine, with yellow nasturtiums shading
to crimson on the left shoulder, falling from thence on to
the right hip, whence grasses and blossoms hang low on
the skirt ; tan gloves, tan shoes and cream gauze fan (
bordered with shaded nasturtiums.
In re the general use of satin in the manufacture of
comets, an English writer says :
I saw a pair made in pink satin and two pairs in the
best black satin for a lady who cannot be a day under
forty. These corsets cost six guineas a pair. Perhaps
this lady would throw aside six pairs of corsets in a year
( they never wear them out), and this means a bill of nearly
£4O a year for corsets alone.
Now, that’s just the trouble. The corsets of a gusher of
forty don’t get a chance to wear out. Nobody squeezes
them up till the whalebones crack and the whole gear gets
out of plumb ; nor docs the satin ever rub out from con-
tinuous pressure at the waist-line—no 1 they’re always as
f rcsli as when she first got them. But just to make believe
she buys half-a-dozen pair and imagines the rest, which
inspires me to metrically mention that—
The maiden fair of—say—nineteen
And waist of inches just to match ;
Wears corsets made of cheap sateen,
And fixed with clasps that hardly catch
But though they’re large and loose and old—
“ Fred’s arm is belt enough ” you’re told.
The maid of forty natal days
And waist of size to correspond,
Wears weekly a new pair of stays,
Of satin stuff, fixed up with blonde,
And if you ask why this is so
She'll say “ Sly dear 1 just count my beaux !”
They say that it’s now the correct thing to dress in a
colour that accords either with your eyes or hair. I hope
the idea catches on. It will be simply “ nuts ”to see the
strawberry-roan come out in golden hues, and the green-
eyed female—l saw a Government official the other day
, with sea-green eyes and scarlet hair—languishing in tur-
quoise, while the woman with snuff-coloured hair wears
tortoise-shell brown, and the fishy-grey aged charmer is
confident in violet. I don’t know what arrangements
have been made for the wall-eyed beauty or the grizzled
Venus, but I suppose the one will effect a compromise in
shot silk, and the other in a magpie blend.
One of the pet pastimes of those dear sallow-faced
creatures who have stringy-bark necks and take sevens in
paw-cases is hospital-visiting. Monday is the day they do
it in Sydney, and if you chance in the vicinity of any of
the hospitals on that day you will meet them in dozens
carrying nosegays of lightning and elegance, tables, tracts
and occasionally, only very occasionally—jelly. Now, all
this is very disinterested, and the patients ought to re-
joice when they see them coming, but somehow, I don’t
know how it is, they don’t. Being anxious to hunt out
the Grateful Patient I devoted an afternoon to a hospital
recently, and pausing at the bedside of a middle-aged
woman I insinuated in my brilliant and original style that
“ the visitors must break the monotony of hospital life.”
Would you believe it? that unreasonable creature just
growled : “ Much good they do me, miss. One of ’em
comes in with a face as long as a wet Sunday, and she sits
there groaning for a bit. Then she’ll say, ‘ Still wuss,
dear? But never mind, there’s a bootiful ’ome all ready
for yer when you've cast aside yer pore frail body. Cheer
hup. Heternity’s afore yer.’ Now what’s the result of
such disheartenin’ mag? (She wasn’t an elegant old lady.)
Hup goes me pulse and down goes me temperachurc, and
barley-water’s me drink for a fortnit!” Passing on to
another bedside in my search for a Grateful Patient I hap-
pened on a girl of about nineteen. Broaching the visit-
ing subject to her I elicited, “ Well—yes—they do
relieve the monotony, but the blues is no name for what
they give you. I asked one of them what horse won the
Newmarket, as I’m in a sweep on it, and she said, stiffly :
* I am not interested in turf transactions,’ and left in a
hurry. Now I wanted a little chat on lively topics, but
i all she did was to read me a tract about a worldling who
died very suddenly, and left in a huff when I asked a
question !” Now, these two conversations are pretty nearly
verbatim, and if space weren’t valuable I could throw a
few more sidelights on the hospital-visiting question
which would curl up those feminine Samaritans who go
armed with bush-flower-bouquets and a basketful of
sacred “ booklets ” and pass the poor-box in the entry
with praiseworthy regularity. But I don’t want to dis-
courage their innocent pastimes—l only wish to make a
suggestion. Let them regulate their conversation to suit
each individual and not dole out Daniel to a woman who
is thirsty for drapery, or insist on the Scriptures when
the listener wants to talk about the stage. Because
people are laid by the heels is no reason that they should
wish to converse in a hollow voice about the fifth chapter
of Genesis. Invalids want cheering up, and the sooner
the professional hospital-visitor grasps this fact the better.
I think I’ll turn Monday visitant just to show them how.
A story lately appeared in a Sydney daily concerning a
lady who visited a house for the purpose of giving a piano-
forte lesson. Seating herself, she forthwith swooned away.
On coming to, pressing inquiry elicits the fact that no
food of any description has passed her lips for over thirty
hours. The husband is a clerk, “ out of employment for
10 weeks,” and the wedding-ring has to be pawned for
half-a-crown to buy food for the inevitable child. It’s a
sad picture, and should give pause to those aspiring
daughters of the wash-tub who hang “music lessons
given ” in the dingy window of the maternal rabbit-hutch,
bang their front hair, and sit down to starve. And when
Edwin of the “ Lands,” at thirty shillings per week, offers
his ’and and ’art, Angelina feels the glow of achieved
ambition, and stalks off to the altar with a sublime in-
difference to pecuniary considerations worthy of Arcadia.
The result is too often as per above—impaired physical
strength, with two other mouths besides her own to pro-
vide for and no employment offering, and yet, spite of
these doleful finger-posts on the road to supposititious
“ gentility,” Mary Ann will continue to disdain 20s. a week
and the ran of the kitchen, and Adolphus will insist on
repudiating the paternal selection of the frayed edges and
celluloid collars of clerkdom, and nothing can swerve
either of them. Perhaps when a few of these misguided
couples starve to death in the streets, Miss O’Rorke,
teacher of music, and Mr. Green, of Mugg & Co., will sit
up and reflect.
I suppose it was necessary that at the cremationist
shivoo at Sydney Town Hall on 3rd inst. Mr. Lecturer
Creed should mercilessly confront us with “ foetid soak-
age,” “effluvia,” and all the detailed unsavoriness of the
charnel-house, but I must admit that he made your little
Sappho feel very yellow indeed. However, I presume it
was wanted. People who aren't in favour of cremation
and feel poetical about distributing Mariar under the
willow, demand that the practical nastiness of the burying
business should be put before them realistically, or else
they will continue to plant pansies on their aunt in the
morning and execrate the gamey flavour she lends to the
water supply at night without pausing to think things
out. In the course of a great many remarks Dr. Creed
said he was gratified at the number of people he met who
were in favour of incineration—some moribund individuals
begging him to rush up a crematory in time to receive
their remains—and I’m glad to think people are so clear-
sighted. There was a huge crowd at the meeting, though
it was coining down several domestic animals outside, but
the audience was mostly masculine. Judging by the
number of bonnets present I infer that my sentimenta]
sex still prefers its dear departeds decomposed.
And with the tales of swooning, starving music-teachers
still loud in one’s ears, it's significant to read that in
Melbourne—
“ A determined effort is about to be made by an agent of
the Colonial Emigration Society—Mrs. Reeves—to obtain
from England a continuous supply of domestic servants
for the colonics.”
Perhaps when the local Mary Jane, haunting the “ labour
bureau ” in shabby attire and exploded boots, is crowded
out by high-priced English domestics in plush and cash-
mere and surrounded by crowds of importunate mistresses
perhaps she’ll be sorry that she is billed as “ nursery
governess,” at five shillings per week, instead of being
cook at twenty, as “ mamma ” was, but it will be too late.
Help from “home” is more accounted in the domestic
scheme than the indigenous article and when once the
continuous supply fairly sets in, the “ home-cured” slavey
will perforce have to stand afar off and let the best girl
win. But it’s not too late yet awhile.
The annual commemoration of the Sydney ’Varsity is to
be held at 2.30 p.m. on 29th inst. in the great hall*
Let’s hope the undergrads, have’thought out some-
thing less stereotyped in the way of horseplay than
is usual on these recurring occasions. We are to have an
effigy of the professor, but the collegian who comes out in
a bang and a fan must be prepared to stand from under.
At the eleventh hour I joined in the crush surging up
the Criterion stairs to see for myself if the weeks of S.R.O.
were the natural consequences of a good show. And I
found it was even so, for “Caste,” you know, pleases you
more every time you go. Everybody carries on as if they
were deceiving themselves in the process of “ make-
believe,” and the gowns are satisfactory. As the Mar-
quise, Miss Romer scores in a visiting toilette of emerald
green velvet en Direotoire with semi-Medici collar, out-
lined down the fronts with beaver fur, underdress of
green silk, bonnet en suite ado-ned with green Jet. It
looks gorgeous. In act two, Mrs. Brough wears a tasteful
dinner-dress in pink veiling with guipure on the bodice
and a long train over a large "Improver.” It’s more V-
shaped than this public idol usually goes in for, and when
she leans over the back of D’Ah-oy’s chair the prospect is
rather breathless. Mrs. Cleopatra Totter won’t have it
all her own way, anyhow. By the by, the cuddling in
“ Caste ” is absorbingly realistic, and the man wfio takes
an unappreciated female to gaze on it with her mouth
open is guilty of the very refinement of cold-blooded
cruelty.
At the recent meeting of the Carington Convalescent
Hospital committee, the Baron in the chair, it transpired
that an extra £5OOO is required before the home can be
opened. The furniture will cost £1450, and, with a view
to defraying part of this item, it was resolved to hold aba.
during May-a ball committee being organised on the
spot. Judging by the unvarying success of all Sydney
charity balls, the committee couldn’t have chosen a b ttvr
method for filling the hospital hat.
Mysterious advt. from the S.M. Herald; —
LADY requires Home, 255. week ; no English ; no
other lodgers. A.Z., Herald Office, King-street.
If by “ no English” she means bad English any hash-
house owner can wade in confidentially and offer her
phenomenal advantages; but if she means that she
objects to bold her own over the toast-rack with a darned
Britisher and feels that her appetite would fail in the pre-
sence of a pei-son who said “ y-a-a-s ” feebly at long in-
tervals and roused himself to remark that the “ wain
makes it er—awfully wawm,” and further aggravated
the situation by gaiters and an eyeglass, then one grasps
the idea at once. “No English” advts. will probably be.
corns general.
The irresistible dual attraction of Sculler O’Connor and
“My Jack” filled Her Majesty's to overflowing on Bth
inst. in every part but the d.c., which was rather patchy
at the sides. The ’Murkan oarsman occupied the vice-
regal enclosure and wore the regulation boiled-shirt and
swallow-tail in that easy way natural to the professional
sculler, while the graceful manner in which he stifled
cavernous yawns from time to time showed how fitted he
was by nature to occupy the gubernatorial box. There
was no dressing in the d.c., which was dominated by
auriferous - locked seraphs in excruciating decollete,
though a palc-blua silk, relieved with white and a diamond
necklet, was en toilette, and the Postmaster-General, in
fie manager’s box, had brought his wife and sister-in-law,
both in white silk. After the show a kind of impromptu
levee was held in the vestibule of the theatre, when various
notabilities were introduced to the aquatic high-flyer.
I wonder what the “ very best people ” of Toorak think
of the public snubbing they received at the hands of the
dear Countess last Saturday? It is recorded that, for the
first time in the last 15 years, no lady visitor was invited
to take a seat in the vice-regal box at Plemington race-
course. The dear Countess wore white and pink, fashioned
in a style that would have been most becoming to a
housemaid who “ knew her place.” By the way, one of
the sights of the day was to see the podgy little Premier
Gillies stand bareheaded under a scorching sun for quite
a long while, in the presence of the nigger Maharajah and
that mighty youth Hopetoun.
The “ Austral Salon,” a Melbourne club formed for the
higher education of women, elected its committee last
Thursday. President, Countess of Hopetoun ; Vice-Presi-
dents, Lady Clarke and Lady Davies; Acting Vice-Presi-
dent, Mrs. Sydney Dickenson ; Secretary, Miss Conor
O’Brien ; Treasurer, Miss 11. Brown ; Committee, Miss
Murphy, Mrs. Grover, Miss Colthorpe, Mrs. John M‘Donald
and Miss Moore. Forty new members were enrolled.
I am told that the first person who has had the honour
of being “ blackballed ” at the Melbourne Ladies’ Club, is
a newspaper-proprietor. His lady-contributors, I pre-
sume, have taken a delight in “ rubbing it in.”
The drawing-room ornamental drain-pipe craze has gone
out before the putty-jar boom. You get a jar
—the uglier the better—and you cover it with putty, and
then you stick it all ovc, before it dries, with odds and
ends—buttons, geological specimens, shells, suspender-
buckles, dolls’-heads, broken toys, &c. When it’s covered
you have it bronzed and varnished, and—why, you
just sit round and look at it until a new fashion comes
along, and then—you heave it at your neighbour’s
cat.
With the approaching cold weather we are threatened
with such an influx of tartan that the Block will, I expect,
look as though it were the review-ground of a Highland
regiment or a gathering of the clans. There are numbers
of hideous plaids about already.
In England hundreds of women of the upper circles
have taken to cigarette-smoking in earnest. Which re-
calls the fact that a lady, just returned from a visit to a
N.S.W. town, not far from the Victorian border, tells me
that in the indulgence of cigar-smoking the belles of that
lively locality are by no means behind the leaders of
fashion in the old country. Moreover they are sufficiently
“ advanced ” to introduce whisky at afternoon tea.
Regarded numerically, the attendance at the Fourth
Orchestral Concert on Bth inst. must have been highly
gratifying to the gifted conductor (this in my very best
style), but in point of attention it was quite the other way
round. Common decency kept tongues quiet during
pianissimo movements, but when each instrument broke
out into a howling crescendo and the big drum was heard
in the land, then jaws wagged invariably, and while the
furioso lasted Johnnie’s eye-tooth and the servant question
were discussed with a gusto that proved how an hour or
two of melody carries some people further into, instead of
out of, themselves. Ido not think the orchestra sounds
to as great advantage in the Exhibition as it did in
Darlinghurst Hall, where the poor prisoners in the
gaol get the benefit of it, and certainly the plat-
form isn’t so nicely fixed up. Some extremely “dickey’’
banana-leaves (apparently) placed at intervals with the
artistic effect of a butcher’s Saturday night window aren’t
quite the frame one likes to see Hazon in. Another thing
1 objected to was the groggy uncertainty of the numbers
on the platform. “1” looked like “7,” and the person
able to distinguish 3 from 8 was gifted with a perspicacity
bordering on the incredible. Also, the sunburnt secretary
should either keep those people who introduce themselves
with hob-nailed boots and a 13-stone pas seul during a
string pianissimo severely on the mat, or else allow them
in witli bated breath and their boots off. There was a
huge crowd present, headed by the Mayor in a white
vest and a bunch of tuberoses, and Sculler O’Con-
nor, in the blues, apparently, while the dressing w: s
as fearsome as usual. A woman in black splashed in white
with a soiled cotton pocket-handkerchief tied in a d(sgag6
manner round her gullet; and a soprano warbler with
aureolined locks two shades lighter than they were the
week before, pearl-creamed visage relieved with red ochre
on either cheek-bone, the whole masterpiece covered with
a red veil and surmounted by a giddy white hat with a
feather sticking up belligerently behind were among the
worst 1 noticed; whilst amongst the satisfactory gets-up
a Sydney pianiste in black rep silk beautifully braided in
black, black lace straw hat smothered in black feathers,
suede gloves and cluster of white roses at the waist most
satisfied the exacting eye of
Yours affectionately,
SAPPHO SMITH.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING SJEEK.
Theatre Royal “Pointsman.”
Her Majesty's “My Jack.”
CRITERION “Ours.”
Standard Theatre “Hamlet.”
Cyclorama Battle of Gettysburg.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Theatre Royal “ Streets of London.” _
Princess's “Mrs. Brown-Potter.”
Alexandra “ Robbery Under Arms.”
Opera House “Nemesis.”
St. George’s Hall Cogill Bros. Company.
“ The Pointsman ” at Sydney Theatre
Royal is one of those distressing melodramas (tljey
call it a “railway drama” on the bills) in which
the audience is dragged through deserts of dreary
and often drivelling dialogue to brief oases where
something oojurs. Someone is stabbed, or drugged,
or robbed, or telescoped in a train, or feloniously
married, or unlawfully espoused, and after the
audience is watered at the spring of sensation
’neath the palm-tree of scenic effect, the dusty old
caravan is dragged on again over the sandy Sa-
haras of snivel and slush towards the Promised
Land of another blood-thrilling, hair-raising
situation. It lias good points, however, and
the wrecking of the railway-train, with its
burning carriages and showers of descending
sparks is the finest effect of its kind that we have
seen on the Sydney, or, indeed, any stage. In
Richard Dugdale, J. H. Clyndes, already known
to Sydney audiences, has a “fat" though unplea-
sant par", and he gets a good deal out of it.
Alfred Luc';law’s Tom Lidstoue was fairly fetch-
ing, and we Used die Fred. Fordyce of Owen
Harris, while the Mat. Collies o'f Frank Emery
was a very fine character sketch, although only a
silhouette. William Calvert’s Black George
was good in the drunken scene, and C. B. West-
macott completely concealed bis identity as the
“superior landlord of the Blue Anchor.” We do
not think for a moment that Edith Bland deserves
all the eulogy showered on her for her representa
tion of Lizzie Hathernut. Her acting is capable
and intelligent, but by no means “ highly impres-
sive,” and she occasionally evinced a tendency to
overact in commonplace situations. Clara Cowper
is likely to be popular, and 1 ouie Emery, not
having a great deal to cl®, in spite of the denun-
ciations of some other papers, cannot bo blamed for
her inobtru-iveness. “The Octoroon” will be
staged on Saturday week.
a: L &
Wot weather and certain other events
have not contributed to the su cess of Geo. C.
Miln's Sydney Standard season, and it is a pity
to see such a capable actor so badly placed. It
does not now appear that the “ Merchant of
Venice ’ is so well within the scope of his com-
pany as was “ Richard III.,” a play in which his
performance improved visibly during the week’s
run. His Shylock lacks coherence ; instead of
seeing one man animated at various times by dif-
ferent and sometimes conflicting passions, you
almost conceive a fresh Shylock in each scene. We
have seen in Sydney not long ago a much inferior
actor give a more consistent rendering. Evidently
Mr. Miln has not yet “ settled down ” in the part,
but ere the week is out all this uncertainty will
have vani lied. G. R. Ireland’s Antonio is very
creditable indeed, but Air. H. N. Douglas’ Gratiano,
disguised with a dirty face and dishevelled
Domain moustache, is not attractive. Mr. Mont-
gomery’s Bassanio, like the fabled crow, carries
cheese in his month which, unlike the crow, he
refused to drop, but we will not disturb the gentle-
man’s very evident good opinion cf his own excel-
lence in this part. Messrs. Cosgrove and Wake-
field, particularly the former, speak their lines in-
telligently and without mouthing. Kate Douglas
has a sadly curtailed part in Nerissa; would that
the Jessica of Miss Sherwin could be entirely
omitted, while we would almost that Antonio
should bn curtailed of one pound of flesh rather
than escape through the advocacy of the Portia
presented by Louise Jordan. “Hamlet ’’ follows
on Saturday.
“My Jack ” will continue to occupy the
boards at Her Majesty's until William Rignold
substitutes “Nowadays ”at Easter, “ Aly Jack”
is not a dress-circle piece, but it draw's in every
other part of the house, and when, in addition to
the blowing-up of the lighthouse and the sensa-
tional plunge of George Rignold into the feather-
bed portion of the stormy ocean, is super-added
the appearance of such a champion sculler as
William O’Connor, accompanied by bis illustrious
kinsman and fellow-descendant from the Irish
kings, Dan O’Connor, the gallery is at white heat
and threatens at intervals to boil over into the
stalls.
*- * * »
It may somewhat stagger the new-chum
who believes that excepting his own odoriferous
self no good thing ever came cut of or into Aus-
tralia, to lenrn that G. W. Anson’s pourtrayal of
Eccles, at Sydney Criterion, is usually considered
by brother actors and other much travelled and
well-informed persons to be superior as a character
sketch to any previous representation, not except-
ing' those of George Honey and David James.
“ Caste ” still draw's big houses, but will be with-
drawn to make room for “Ours ” with the follow-
ing cast : Hugh Chalcot, Geo. Titheradge; Ser-
geant Jones, Geo. Anson; Prince Perovsky,
Robert Brough ; Sir Alex. Shendryn, J. F. Cath-
cart; Angus AlacAlister, Percy Lyndal; Lady
Shendryn, Miss Ronier; Alary Netley, Pattie
Browne ; Blanche Haye, Airs. Brough—after
Friday evening.
** * *
In spite of the inflated reports of certain
Sydney critics, Charles Palmer’s “Hansthe Boat-
man ” has not been a success either artistically or
financially. The young actor is at his best in
the last act where he has something tangible to go
on, when he displays great capability for the
simulation of emotion. In the other acts Where
airiness, lightness of touch, and the creation of
effect by the making of almost infinitesimal points
is necessary, he does not appear to advantage.
“ Hans ” will be withdrawn on Saturday evening,
and we are not yet aware if anything will take its
place. uu.
*■ * * *
The Jensens, who go fui’ther afield, were
farewelled at Bondi Aquarium club-room last
Tuesday. Fresh novelties are now on tap, and,
by the way, last SunJav’s concert was the best
Sunday one given in S* *aey for some time.
* Y, * *
At the Palace Museum the refrigerating
ventilating apparatus is in full blast, and the
whole place is now as cool as a dog’s nose. The
courteous Cunard is busy hunting up fresh novel-
ties, which are described by Lecturer Boyd in
sraphic5 raphic language. His latest novelty is “Texes
ack, Junior,” a pal of Buffalo Bill’s, from the
Far West, a handsome, swarthy personage, who


A GHOST
is not a photograph, nor a photo, a ghost'—but a good photo, is a
true, reflection of the original. Fot high-art photos, go to the
London 'Palace of Art, 10 I ’ark-street, Sydney. Country photographers’ work'From developement
to completion executed at lowest prices. Bromides a speciality, Staff of artists kept for working up.
Notice.
Mr. T. V. Horrtoan is travelling representative
for The Bii.i.etin in New Zealand.
Reliable Watch Repairs, Daiivs K C<\, Khig-s;. Arcade.
The Choicest Jewellery. L>aii.ms& Co., King s:. Aroa,Uc.
can straddle a reindeer or a rainbow, a bullock or
a buck-jumper with the greatest ease, lassoo a
mosquito or a bird on the wing with the greatest
facility, and bring down for a certainty all the
motes in a sunbeam with a shot-gun. There is
scarcely room enough in the Museum for this
artist, and ho will be shown soon out of doors.
** * *
We are informed by Janitor Clark that
the Oyclorama is still hustling for the cake.
* * * *-
The attendance at Hazon’s last Saturday
Exhibition concert was, so far, the best, but then
the Mayor had invited 500 “friends.” Those who
were there, however,—no matter how they got
there —had a treat in Gluck’s Gavotte, the
Sicilian Vespers, Massenet’s ballet-music, and
other pieces, though Mendelssohn’s Italian Sym-
phony was just a little too much for most people.
Saturday’s performance of “The Lady of Lyons,”
at Melbourne Princess’s, disposed of any lingering
doubts regarding the incapacity of Mrs. Potter to
do more than make a fashionable mess of a part
demanding strength, talent, and stage experience
from the exponent. Not that this lavishly-draped
Pauline cut an especially lamentable figure at any
particular period of the evening. She accom-
plished a negative fiasco, her errors of commission
being o’ershadowed by her sins of omission. In
Mrs. Potter’s Camille there was, at times, a
colourable imitation of force, but as Pauline she
never rose above the level of a respectable amateur.
Moreover, her reputation for supernal beauty
dwindles apace. Studied through opera-glasses
she is a pretty Mrs. Potter, but to the unassisted
eye she presents a less striking stage appearance
than many another actress now in Australia,
especially when she ventures inside_ unpretentious
apparel and lets down her back hair. Unskilled
in the art of “displaying” her face behind the
footlights, Mrs. Potter looks positively plain in
one of her most important situations. The Claude
Melnotte of Mr. Kyrle Bellew, is a consistent
failure. One was justified in taking exception to
the perfervid passion of Mr. Charles Warner,
who played the same character at the same
theatre a while ago. Yet there was grit and go
in Warner’s hysterical presentment of the im-
possible gardener’s son, whereas Bellew is the
sickliest of Claude Melnottes —a sentimental cross
between a dudelet and a torreador. In extenuation
of the tender Kyrle’s offence it may be pleaded
that he was slightly (and unnecessarily) hissed at
the outset. This would naturally knock a little
stuffing out of him, and perhaps it accounted for
Mrs. Potter’s evident lack of courage. A very
finished performance of Beauseant by Mi-. Sass,
assisted by Hans Phillips as Glavis, served to
reflect severely upon the newly-imported talent.
In other places the cast is weak, and the show
altogether is the poorest ever given at this hand-
somely managed house. “La Tosca ”is at time of
writing announced for next Saturday. Prices as
usual. Mr. Garner, anxious to prevent an ugly
rush at the box-office, raised the sassiety rates,
but as sassiety neglected to jump at what the
advt. calls a “golden opportunity ” (£2 in gold),
Mr. Garner will interest himself in such matters
no more. There are the seats for Mrs. Potter
going at five shillings each. And if sassiety dies
m the struggle to get ’em, Mr. Garner doesn’t care
one solitary Kyrle Bellew.
** * *
“Robbery Under Arms ’ has settled down
into a real native success at the Alexandra, and a
wild longing for life in the trackless bush where
each dew-laden air draught resembles a quart of
colonial beer, gleams from the eye of every town-
bred boy on the premises. It is good to see the
rising generation sitting around, listening in their
young imaginations to the weird, peculiar note of
the melancholy mopoke, inviting them to come
where Captain Starlight lingers with a stolen
mail-bag for his pillow and a burgled steak for his
inner lining. A real mail-coach and pair (from
Tattersall’s) tears along the gully at a discreet
trot, in one scene. Athol wood’s study and the
half-bred Warrigal is rich in touches of nature,
while an incidental vision of Miss Lily Dam pier,
with her arm round the neck of a gallant steed,
spnds new-chums away sighing for colonial experi-
ence and further remittances from “home.”
“ Robbery Under Arms” has been tightened up
in many parts where it dragged on the opening
night. If the management can add a few head of
and a couple of laughing-jackasses, the Aus-
tralian drama ought to hum forever. My word !
** W *
As “Hands Across the Sea” began to
relax their fraternal grip, a revival of “Streets of
London ” took place at the Royal on Saturday.
Mr. Warner’s notion of Badger is new to Mel-
bourne, but the revelation isn’t of much conse-
quence, anyhow. The question whether Mr.
Warner plays Badger, or that popular creation
plays 0.W., Esq., excites little interest so long as
catches fire, which it does with an inno-
cuous realism worthy of Pain’s fireworks. Bouci-
cault’s dramas are always worth seeing, and the
antique specimen under discussion is held up to
admiration by a very capable company. In fact,
the low-comedy business of George Walton in
particular and several others in general—not to
mention the heavier work of Vincent, Flemming,
Miss Williamson and Miss Warner —seems good
enough to keep the bill steady for another week.
Likewise, the Opera House is getting large profits
and quick returns out of “Nemesis.” A tricky
piece of leg-shaking, imported from the Gaiety
and let loose upon this market by four briglii
seraphim, is causing some excitement. “Nemesis”
runs until Friday week—and then, and then Nellie
Stewart. Be still, be still, our fatty-degenerated
heart!
-;K- * * -*
The Boston Ideal Co., reinforced by the
Sisters Van Tassell de Balloon Parachute, flourish
at the Victoria. St. George’s Hall maintains a
mixed entertainment for the benefit of audiences
which are also a little mixed in places, and the
Cyelorama is about to celebrate the anniversary of
Jeremiah Brown’s natal occasion. There never
was such a place for birthdays. There’s Welling-
ton, Bonaparte, Bluchcr, Waterloo and Manager
Gross, all having frequent anniversaries of their
births, deaths, and christenings. Jeremiah will
be !I8 on the 14th inst., but if he gel s ou r next
Christinas lie will be 113 come next Easter,
The perilous spectacle of a Tassell coming
down from Heaven at the end of an umbrella
afforded an agreeable sensation to thousands of
Melbourne folks last week. Some of them paid a
shilling for their agony while others glared at the
fun free gratis. Some who didn’t intend paying,
however, were taught to see the error of their ways
by a beautiful tract, written by the Revd.
MacMahon. The moral of MacMahon’s tract
was that all who avoided forking forth a “bob”
for a view of the parachute and Tassell would
probably be in danger of the Judgment, so a few
elected to get saved at the price. Unfortunately
the performance took a long time to begin on
each occasion, and subscribers were full up before
the balloon was.
** * *
The Australasian and other Melbourne
weeklies having described in their “fashion ”-
notes the dresses and general appearance of Mrs.
Brown-Potter each time she appeared on the
Collins-street block and Flemington lawn, that
lady lias written to the Argus emphatically deny-
ing that she has ever been on the block as yet, or has
ever seen our beautiful race-course, or possesses the
costumes in which she is said to have paraded.
She adds that she reserves all her energies for the
theatre and the benefit of the public. So much
for Australasian fashion-news and reserved
energies !
* * *
Two Yankee prophets, named Christmas
and Carter, have pounced down on Melbourne
with gigantic six-sheet yellow posters about lec-
tures on the Second Advent and end of this dis-
pensation, as the cant phrase is. They have
engaged the Theatre Royal for Sunday lectures,
three times in the day, at 11, 3, and 7. The
posters afford what Crummies would call a tre-
mendous bill. The whole concern of the globe is
to be wound up in eleven years ! Before that, in
fact this year, France is to crumple up Germany.
All Europe will be re-arranged. England will
lose all her colonies (thanks - a good sop, that). A
new Napoleon arises. One hundred and forty-four
thousand saints will fly up bodily, &c. All this
muck recalls the impudent predictions of the Rev.
Moses Baxter about Napoleon 111. But Baxter
flourishes yet.
** * *
Never did a parachute come to earth with
a more frightful flop than Garner’s scheme of
charging £2 per seat for the first night of Mrs,
Potter’s “LaTosoa,” as stated last week. Nobody
—-positively nobody booked ! There were the
cosy seats red-pencilled off for the dead-head
critics, and that was all. Consequent drawing in
of horns by Arthur Garner. It is to be hoped he
will be more lucky with his mammoth company
scheme —to spend £150,000 on a new amusement
pier at St. Kilda.
■sir
LINES CHALKED ON A CERTAIN
FIRM’S THEATRE DOORS.
Oh, the stage is a snare —don’t the churches aver
it?—
A lure of the devil for children of earth ;
Yet the stage, goodness know's, has shown plenty
of Merritt,
4nd, latterly, little that wasn’t of Worth.
H.C.C.
More authors ! James H. Lafoud wants
to shovel the MS. of his novel, “ Tristan the
Racer,” on a London publisher, with a guarantee
that all the characters are drawn from Australian
life, and all the incidents actually occurred—some-
where. Curtain rises on a magnificent fete at
Como, on the Yarra, the suburban mansion of
Hugh Mirror, called Money Mirror, the millionaire
squatter, head of the Caprxcornian Bank. His
only daughter, Sylvia, has two lovers, both racing
men, the aristocratic Sturgeon, who owns that
grand Stud Farm of Lucerne on the Freshet River,
and the democratic Willison, owner of the match-
less training estate of St. Neots, on Hobson’s Bay.
Sylvia marries Sturgeon, but Willison has a
glorious revenge. He buys a dark horse named
Tristan, and diligently saves it up for the Mel-
bourne Cup, while Sturgeon peppers Tristan in
the betting to the extent of all his fortune. Wil-
lison bought Tristan from Jabez Fortune, a mem-
ber of the Y.M.C.A., who went wrong on coming
into money, led away by a cunning rascal named
David Dudlam Buck. Jabez, losing everything,
becomes penitent, returns to his forsaken wife, and
her Evangelical relations. On Cup Day he takes a
trip down the bay with the Ebenezer Association,
but is disgusted on returning to find that Tristan
has won the Cup !
* » *
A statement published about Harry
Edwards, in “Little Lord Fauntleroy,” favour-
ing little Hopkins at the cost of little Berkley
comes as a surprise to the Melbourne contingent,
because they thought it was all the other way.
Probably there is no favour shown, on the stage,
and only women’s jealousy has tet the rumour
afoot.
** * *
G. A. Sala was running down Australia
at a London club, and regretting that Toole
should visit it, whereupon Rosebery said that his
opinion differed from Sala’s concerning the Aus-
tralian people, whom he regarded as very bright
and intelligent, and quick to appreciate any form
of artistic or intellectual ability. “ For my part. ”
he added, “I am very glad my friend Toole is
going out, for I am sure he will never regret his
visit, and will make on all sides a host of warm-
hearted friends.” Nevertheless we are sorry for
Toole, not because we believe with Sala that
Australians can’t appreciate talent, but because
we know that the national bump of veneration is
not abnormally big, and that they will refuse to
value anyone merely on a past reputation whose
fulfilment declining years will not admit.
A stagey sticking-out of arms,
A frequent faint, a feeble totter,
A voice which rather bores than charms,
A handsome gown—-that’s Mrs. Potter.
Though seeming less the more she’s seen,
This compliment ’tis fair to pay her—
When Mrs. Potter plays Pauline
She is indeed a poor, lean player.
A pair of legs in Vandyke pose,
A manner soft as melted butter,
A fragile form, a classic nose,
An altogether quite too utter—
That’s just a sketch of Kyrle Bellew,
Prepared with not a little trouble,
Who found in him an actor new
To “ blow ” about bel-letv a bubble.
At Poverty Point.
The Dramatic and Musical Association has been holding
its 17th annual meeting, in Melbourne, and makes out
that it has £lO,OOO to the credit. When the thing was
started the cry was raised of “Another of Coppin’s
Dodges,” and after some time the Artful cleared out of
the management of this really well-meaning and bene-
volent business “ in the sacred cause of charity,” to adopt
a favourite phrase of George’s. Then G. B. W. Lewis
became Master, and there was a terrible fiasco , loss of
£4OO, over a fancy fair at the Exhibition. But the astute
secretary, Olasoott Symes, flung the liability off the
society’s shoulders. Lewis retired disgusted. Enter
Dick .Stewart. The thing is deadly-lively. The unfor-
tunate career of the English Theatrical Fund prejudices
it a good deal.
Sylvia Grey, of the Gaiety, has slipped again, had
another spill. In Melbourne she slipped on some oil on
the stage, sprained her ankle, and was laid up. Again
she has sprained it hi London by slipping from her cab,
and had to keep the limb in plaster of Paris by last
advices.
Apropos of the Melbourne pantomimes, our friend
“ Spagnoletti ” thinks that Akhurst’s ouglit all to be in
the Public Library. He exhumes a particularly good
one, 1869, about Jack Melbourne ana Little Victoria,
thoroughly Australian and patriotic. Where are our
writers for the stage ? Akhurst had about 25 of his
original pieces acted in Melbourne.
A London theatrical manager has been recommended to
hire the colossal circus “Olympia” for a meeting of his
creditors. Perhaps Parkes wanted the Dead House for a
meeting—but what is this we are saying ?
A London paper yarns concerning a call-bcy at a Lon-
don theatre whose uncle died of influenza. Such a
fashionable ending greatly pleased the nephew who let
the green-room have full particulars, and finished up by
saying that the suffering relatives “put pennies on his
eyes, hut I jolly soon whipped ’em off.”
Much commotion in London theatrical circles over Amy
Roselle (Mrs. Dacre), a leading actress, having taken to
the music-hall stage. She only gives dress recitations at
the Empire. _ Others are going to follow suit. It is sug-
gested that, in return, Irving should give Bessie Bellwood
an opening for an interlude at the Lyceum—serio-comic
song “ Lord Mandeville.”
Now Garner sighs for Toole, who is to pour sunshine
upon chilling frost. Toole is on the water and will be in
Melbourne before they know it. Another English com-
pany, though ! Johnny will be run on the boards as
quickly as possible, at Easter. The chief other card for
the year is the Gondoliers. Toole wanted to open in Mel-
bourne with three short pieces, “ The Spitalfields Weaver,”
“Off the Line,” and “loi on Parle Franoais,” but the
Firm agreed that there must be more backbone. So it is
either “The Don ” or “Paul Pry,” former for choice.
Tire “ Home ” papers merely state that Philip Beck died
in Australia. He didn’t die in Australia.
A dresser in a Liverpool theatre once gave Toole some
good advice. “You’re wonderful popular in these parts,
sir,” he said; “ wonderful popular. If you was only to
give up the profession and settle down here in a little
‘ pub.,’ you’d make your fortune in no time.” Instead of
which he foolishly comes to Australia.
It is said that Mrs. Brown-Potter has come to Australia
“ to strive for an honest living rather than be a party to
the general wickedness of society.” She also told an
American friend that “she was sick and disgusted with
interviewing, particularly when conducted by women, as
they made it a pretext to look at her clothesj and then go
and write offensive articles about her most secret gar-
ments.” Why blame women so much? Giddings, of
Adelaide, judging from what he wrote about his alleged
interview with her, had no respect for her “ secret gar-
ments,” including pink stockingette tights.
The Want v. Moss litigation over the stage-box at
Sydney Royal has already eaten up £lOOO in costs.
Austin Brereton writes to the Theatre Magazine
that the Melbourne Princess Theatre is better than any in
London. So much better than any in Melbourne, any-
how, that Warner, Janet Achuroh, Bucklaw, Clara Cowper,
Edith Blande, all get more or less sulky if they have to go
and act down at the Royal.
Toole’s latest about Sothern:—“He was the most
amusing creature on earth. You remember that absurd
trick of his when he asked 80 people to supper, and wrote
a private note to each man beforehand to ask him to be so
good as to say grace, as the chairman was unavoidably-
prevented from attending the dinner. The faces of those
80 men as they rose in a body, at the tap on the table,
which Sothern had severally informed them was to be the
signal for grace, must have been a sight indeed !”
The wife of General Tom Thumb is married to an
Italian dwarf, Count Magri. They are very wealthy.
J. L. Toole says he once asked a provincial manager
why he had got rid of the leading tragedian. “ I couldn’t
keep him, he ranted so that the people outside heard him
and would not pay to come in.”
Violet Ellicott, who has been replacing that other
fragrant Violet—Cameron—in Her Majesty’s (London)
pantomime of “ Cinderella,” as the Prince, was brought
forward in Australia by the Majeronis. Afterwards she
appeared in the pantomime at the Theatre Royal, but
went away disgusted, like Annie Mayor, who has won a
splendid reputation in America, and'about whom, by the
way, this appears in the latest New York Herald “ The
character of Mrs. Canty (in ‘ Prince and Pauper ’) does
not give Miss Mayor much chance of displaying her talent.
It is the most artificial in the play. She gets all that can
be got out of the fortune-telling incident, however, and
shows considerable strength in the recognition scene.
Miss Mayor’s cry is the most real thing of the kind I
know. Most stage cries one hears are unconvincing
shrieks. Miss Mayor’s are natural.”
We learn from a “ Melbawne pa-pah ” that Mrs. Brown-
Potter owes her stage success to the keen perceptions and
kindly criticism of Mr. Austin Brereton, who alone of all
the London critics, perceived her value when she first
appeared there in “Man and Wife” (written by Wilkie
Collins, the wife part created by Ada Cavedish) at the
Haymarket with the Bancrofts. So! Now, we thought
that Worth the tailor was the man she owed most to.
Anyhow, is the Grub-Gabble run solely in the interests of
the S.M. Herald’s critic?
In an article to a London paper, Austin Brereton, of the
S.M. Herald, states that in Australia “ there is no native
dramatist. If there were he might make a fortune in a
few months.” All the more show' for Brereton then, who,
according to a seemingly inspired article in a rtownsouth
paper, not satisfied with standing “ a head and shoulders
over the other London critics,” impliedly came to Aus-
tralia to find a fresh world to conquer.
Poor H. C. Sidney' passed away on Sunday morning*
after a terrible struggle with death in the form of eancer
and consumption. His last words were, “Am I not dead?
Why won’t you let me die ? I dreamt I W'as dead.” Then
later a feeble “Bye” was whispered into the ear of the
brave little, self-sacrificing woipan who had stuck to him
through thick and thin, and Sidney had answ-ered his last
call. He was buried on Monday at Waverley, and was
followed to the grave by Mr. and Mrs. Rignold, Sterling
Whyte, Mr., Mrs. and Master Ridout, Mrs. and Miss
Bailey, and Mrs. and Miss Norton, the ladies who have
scarcely left bis bedside throughout his protracted illness,
and Mr. and Mrs. Edwards, of Waverley. The coffin and
hearse were literally buried with wreaths, some of wkich
were placed there by the telegraphed instructions of Mel-
bourne friends, including Herbert Flemming and George
Walton. It is said that those who were most nearly as-
sociated with the deceased during hjs illness have literally
stripped themselves of everything in order to defray the
heavy expenses.
Barmun draws the line at “offensive freaks.” He was
vainly offered a one-eyed chicken, a white rat with two
noses, and a five-legged horse in London.
William Rignold, with his daughter and niece, have
arrived in Australia. He opens at Her Majesty’s at
Easter in “ Nowadays,” a drama by Wilson Barrett.
Emma Chambers’ company has just finished a most suc-
cessful season in Pietermaritzburg, South Africa.
Vernon Reid is now running Luscombe Searelle’s late
opera company in South Africa. Amy Fenton is prima-
donna, and Verdi is with them.
Braham’s Minstrel Company has been disbanded in
Cape Town after a bad frost.
Mrs. Dr. M‘Carthy and her little musical daughter went
home in the Liguria to perfect their musical studies. The
little girl threatens to be a most talented fiddler, and Mrs.
M ‘Carthy, who as the world knows is a splendid con-
tralto, intends making a specialty of Irish ballads.
It is said that J. L. Toole will be entertained by the
ladies of the dramatic profession in London at a banquet
to which no other male will be admitted. J.L. was always
a ladies’ favourite.
A Sydney critic accounts for the comparative failure of
“Little Lord Fauntleroy” in Sydney by the fact that
“ the management, for some inscrutable object, kept back
the little actress, who is undeniably the best in the
character, until the second week.” The “inscrutable
object ” was simply the terms of the first engaged little
actress’s agreement, but, anyhow, it is funny to hear the
critics who boomed the show all along as a success, turning
round when the season is over to style it a comparative
failure. Oh, Mammon, what hypocrites do travel in thy
train !
A financial absquatulation is said to have occurred in
connection with acertain Australian theatre. How the head
boss could have had dealings of any kind with such a
well-known “ tough ” passes comprehension.
Cole, the Melbourne book arcadian, has bought Har-
wood’s stock of plays, including the marked copies of his
studies. The collection runs back to the prompt book of
“ Azael the Prodigal,” produced in G. V. Brooke’s days.
Our old friend, Charles Turner, the tenor, is back in
Sydney, after an absence of five years. It is said he
has cabled for Annis Montague. Everybody will be de-
lighted to see and hear her, but unless he has something
in view the wisdom of the step may be doubted.
Besides Patti and Tamagno, Messrs. Abbey and Grau
have in their company Mine. Albani, Lillian Nordica,
Giulia Valda, Ravelli, Perugini, Novara, Castlemary, and
a number of lesser lights, almost any of whom could head
an opera company.
J. J. Foster who ran Remenyi, the great violinist, Miss
Von Finkelstein and others through Australia ai d New
Zealand is engineering the Henry George Campaign.
The Boston Ideal Company opens at Sydney Opera
House at Easter.
Harmstons’ American Circus opens at Sydney Crystal
Palace on Saturday fust. Hisoccks and Clark are in
management and Harold Ashton is in advance.
The new Melbourne Bijou will open as nearly as possible
twelve_ month's from the date of its destruction with the
very piece that was then in rehearsal. The house will
much resemble the Princess’, having only two tiers. It
was some blunder in the construction of the gallery that
caused the delay. It is said that it will seat 600 more on
the ground-floor alone than formerly.
The Sydney Debating and Literary Societies had a smoke-
concert at the Sydney Catering Co.’s rooms last week.
There were present about 250 debaters, young and old,
representing, Mr. R. A. Price informed us, a muster-roll
of 20,000. Along musical programme was got through
successfully, and on the whole it was one of the very best
“smoke concerts” we ever attended.
A prominent N. S. W. barrister was recefttly
fined 20s. for using obscene language in a public
place.
Henry George thinks that women must
be admitted to membership of , the Australia,!!
Typographical Unions. Female compositors are
recognised by the trade in Amiri a.
The cheekiest thief on record is the
gentleman who on Friday last week, carried away
bodily a post-office safe and then calmly returned
to burgle the postmistress’s bedroom in order to
get the key.
When the toast of the Queen was proposed
at the Henry George banquet, Quong Tart con-
stituted himself toast-master p.ud by his lusty
“hip-hipping” got the old lady a faint cheer,
which she would otherwise have gone without.
A Melbourne contemporary wonders why
a local clergyman was so foolish "as to remove Id's
hat and stand with it in his hand in the hot sun
whilst addressing an open air meeting. So as to
have it ready and handy for the collection, of
course.
When Sydney News the other day
applied for a special jury in a libel-case Judge
Wmdeyer said he was told that there were special
jurymen who came up-stairs to get their fees and yet
could not sign their names. Judge Stephen added
that the idea that special jurors were any better
than common jurors was a mere fiction of law.
In another column will be found the price-
list of Messrs. Turpin and Brian, of Brickfield
Hill, grocers, &c. We have great pleasure in
directing the attention of our readers to this
energetic and enterprising firm, whose business,
owing to tact, courtesy, and good management,
has now assumed such proportions that they have
recently been obliged to remove to those capacious
premises formerly occupied by R. S, Tighe, whole-
sale grocer, 623 George-street. Teas, sugar, tinned
meats, and every other station requisite of the
very finest quality and moderate cost, forwarded
oi receipt of order. A trial will convince.
The Moss v. Somner case in Melbourne has
some Beecherian features, which reminds us that
Beecher’s grand estate of Boscobel in America
bore the same name as old Moss’s mansion.
Beecher’s Boscobel was sold lately, and how much,
think you, it fetched ? Draw a long breath—
£l7,ooo sterling ! And yet he had spent £45,0C0
on it. This beats Spurgeon’s Beulah Hill, the
finest site in London. Why, a London bishop
left £300,000. A newspaper writer averaged up
all the dead bishops for a good while, not long ago,
and the figure went into £lO,OOO. Saved, saved !
Even good Dean Stanley left £90,0C0, wherefore
he could afford to be heterodox. Poverty keeps
’em on the right line, under the thumb of the con-
gregations. Moral. —Don’t grease them up so
much. Jeshurun waxes fat and kick: Even if
he den’t kick, the corporation comes
Bachelor Tyson, the squatting multi-
millionaire-one of whose peculiarities, by the
way, is invariably to address as “ ”
everyone with whom he converses—is, as t lie
world knows, a non-smoker and a teetotaller. He
once occupied the same cabin in a northern
steamer with a well-known burly squatter, and
when the latter went down to perform his toilet
before dinner there was James Tyson lying on
his back in his bunk —deliberating, no doubt, as
to whether it would be “ good enough ” to accept
MTherson’s offer for that 20,000 store wethers.
The squatter took off his coat and started lo wash
his hands, and Tyson began to regard him very
attentively. “ Ah,” said old Moneybags, “you're
not what ye were, Mister B. When I remember
you first you were a perfect Hercules, as active as
as a cat—a good, strong, useful man; and now ye’re
no good, and it all comes about through you
smoking and drinking and eating and not living a
natural life.” “ Now, look here, Tyson,” said the
squatter, “ do you mean to tell me that you live a
natural life?” “Well,” replied the cautious
James, “ I try to dive as naturally as I can.”
“ Then,” retorted the squatter, “why the devil
don’t you get married ?” James at once resumed
his meditations on the subject of store-wethers.
Explorer Stanley, ordinarily of so prosaic
and commercial a disposition that he pawned
a diamond snuff-box given him by the Queen to
raise money to send cablegrams, has had his little
love affair, thus :
While travelling in Greece he saw a most beautiful
young creature—a fit descendant of the gods—and the
long delayed emotion of the tender passion crept over
him, awakening him to things unknown before. The
beauty of the young Greek maiden had done its work, and
with the determination for which lie is celebrated he
sought out her family and made a proposition of mar-
riage. The brothers felt flattered liy the honour done
their sister, and accepted it; and fora short time Stanley
dwelt in a heaven of biiss. The morning arrived ; he
was arrayed in his wedding garment and" just about to
leave his room for the house of his bride, when the
two brothers appeared on the scene. With a sort of
brigand-like courtesy they laid the case before him.
“ Would the American be so kind as to put a certain
large sum of money in hank in their names, as a guarantee
that he would never leave the borders of Greece after his
marriage with their sister?” Rudely was Stanley
awakened from his dream of bliss. Of course he wouldn’t;
and couldn’t if he would. The brigands smiled cour-
teously. “ Then he would have to excuse their sister.”
For, of course, the beautiful Greek maiden had nothing
whatever to say in the matter. And the result was that
the man smothered his agony and wgiit forth to Africa
again. J


WOLFE’S SCSHSTAFPS!
.§l2OO a year given away in L'l Orders
Is superset! ini’* all other spirits.
Macaulay days, Dr. Johnson frequently
offended more senses than one. The Doctor did
not use McDonald’s Perfect Nail Trimmer and
Cleaner. All chemist'*. Price one shilling.
•Everybody should use I’cmcll's latest best Sxo r wiiiTK
I’.mknt Uou.RK I’l.Ollt. It is Utc greatest success of thence.
Horsford’s Acid Phosphate.
Seasickness Often Prevented and Relieved.
Use Ratho’s Raking Powder,
“ If you :ire a man of business, weakened by the
strain of your duties, avoid stimulants and take
Or. Houle's American Hop 1 fitters.' 1
The Gum Tree Restaurant.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
Are there any old diggers still to the fore
who remember the rush to Havelock ? Should
there be any such, they may further remember
that about half-way down the main street there
stood a small boarding-house, familiarly known as
the “ Gum Tree ” and kept by a Spaniard named
Lopez.
The distinguishing features of this house and
the origin of its name was a good-sized tree which
Lopez had been forced to enclose, being unable to
remove it without detriment to his neighbours.
Hence the restaurant, like a certain Sydney hotel
of to-day, presented the strange spectacle of a
tree growing up through the roof. Over the door
hung this sign—
“ Gum Thee Restaurant”
by it. LOPEZ.
It was a fine, clear night. The silent camps and
the almost burnt-out fires of the diggers ; the
deserted street, the closed business-places, and
the perfect quiet pervading the scene told of the
late hour. Save for tho notes of a distant tin-
whistle coming faintly through the frosty air,
stillness reigned. The radiance of a full moon
fell upon the windlasses on the “ Lead ” throwing
their sharp outlines on the huge white mounds of
pipeclay. It fell upon the little township, bathing
the street in a flood of pale light. It also fell
upon a “ Yankee waggon ” standing nearly op-
posite the “Gum Tree.” The waggon threw a
broad belt of shadow right across the road. Upon
the dark belt lay a chin streak of light issuing
from the partly-open door of the eating-house, in-
dicating that the inmates had not yet retired, and
falling finally on the figure of a tall, powerfully-
built man in an overcoat and knee-boots. He was
leaning on the waggon, talking to someone seated
in the shadow.
Over the way at the
little boardinghouse
Lopez and his wife stood
behind the bar reckoning
the takings and talking
over theevents of the day.
Beside the cash-box lay a
small roll of notes which
Mrs. Lopez had just
finished counting—her
husband being occupied
with the silver when
the door was pushed open
and two strangers, step-
ping in, ordered two pints
of beer. One of the men
was our acquaintance of
the waggon; he had an
i con-grey beard an d
heavy, bushy eyebrows.
His companion was
younger and of slighter
build, but was so muffled
up in a comforter that
little of his face was dis-
cernible. The beer in the
cask was low, and while
the landlord was busy
tilting it up and securing
it in position, his wife,
with commendable pru-
dence, swept all the
money into the cash-box.
This she no sooner did
than the box wassnatched
from her hand by tho
younger man, who at once
decamped. JI is wife’s
shriek caused Lopez to
jump up from his task,
when he found himself
covered by a revolver in
the hand of the big man
who had remained at
the bar. Taking in the
situation at a glance,
the Spaniard caught up a
long, sharp earving-knilo
and witli the reckless
daring of his race sprang
across the counter. As
he did so the man fired.
Simultaneously, with an
upward sweep of his
knife, Lojh-z buried the
knife in his antagonist’s
abdomen, and fell back
lifeless, shot through tho
heart. With a gasp of
pain the man looked round
for tho woman—she was
lying on the flour in a
swoon. Ilu blew out the
light, and grasping with
his left hand the sides of
the gaping wound, stag-
gered away down the street with what speed his
desperate condition would admit.
# # #
Now, the sergeant of the local police hap-
pened just about this time to bo crossing the street
a little higher up, on Ids way to his quarters.
Attracted by the pistol-shot he turned and looked
in the direction of the sound. What he probably
saw was this : A drunken man in an overcoat and
knee-boots, stumbling along under a press of
liquor, forging his way ahead by fits and starts
and frequent halts. He at once hastened after
the supposed drunk, and when within a few yards’
distance ordered him to stop. The man obeyed,
faced round, and, raising his revolver with merci-
less deliberation, fired. The unfortunate officer
sprang into the air and dropped down dead. He,
too, was shot through the heart.
» * *
It will scarcely ba imagined that events
such as these could transpire in the centre of a
town without arousing the attention of the resi-
dents. By no means. But these dreadful deeds
had followed eaeli other so rapidly that although
scores of |>eoplo were hastily clothing themselves
in such garments as could most readily be laid hold
of, very lew had yet gained the street. The first
thing to rivet their attention was the dead body
of the sergeant Around this were gathered a
small knot of the earliest arrivals eagerly com-
menting on the policeman’s untoward fate.
* * * *
Meanwhile the miscreant in the knee-
boots—the cause of this turmoil, to whom human
life seemed such a bagatelle—was still hard by.
The intolerable agony caused by his wound and
the great loss of blood which had saturated his
clothing, had so weakened and dazed him that his
progress was necessarily slow. But the fast-
increasing crowd—tho diggers hurrying from all
parts of the “ Lead,” and the risk he ran of being
stopped and questioned, urged him onward, sc»
pulling himself together with a desperate effort, he
resumed his slow flight.
A short distance lower down the street stood a
bark “smithy.” Having been awakened by the
first shot the smith had dressed and put his head
out of the doorway just in time to witness the
tragic end of the sergeant. Horror-struck by the
catastrophe he seized his heavy sledge-hammer,
and clutching it in both hands stood—waiting.
Slowly and painfully the stricken man came on.
Looking through a chink in the bark the watcher
could distinctly see him lurching from side to side
in his toilsome march. The “ squish-squash ”of
his bloody boots as he bi-ought his feet heavily to
the gromtd—came nearer.
Unflinching, with set face and beating heart the
smith stood, swaying the sledge gently to and
fro, and—waiting. Suddenly the man passed the
angle of the wall—the hammer shot into the moon-
light—there was a smothered ejaculation—and
this “Horror” of the night fell senseless to the
earth.
The erstwhile silent street was now astir with
people. The dead body of the sergeant had been
removed, and an excited throng surrounded the
blacksmith and his unconscious prisoner—waiting
for the arrival of the constables who were now
close by. The body of the murdered Spaniard had
been discovered. Mrs. Lopez had revived,
and, what with her testimony and that of the
smith, the true circumstances of the murders were
now generally understood. Tire man in knee-
boots died the following day, without divulging
anything concerning his companion, so the cash-
box was never recovered. Since that dire night a,
[Effect oftke C^n&e,
Divine \A/° H ‘p p e r
THE MELBOURNE CHURCH-CHORISTER QUESTION: THE SURPLICED LADIES LEAVE.
generation has slipped away with a rapidity that
seems incredible for—even as I write, I close my
eyes—there before me hangs, clearly pictured, the
little white sign : —
THE GUM TREE RESTAURANT,
BY
R. LOPEZ.
J. LYALL.
A characteristic piece of grovel was fired
off at the AKG us and Australasian annual bean-
feast last Saturday. Mr. Gowen Evans expressed
a hope that “even as the colonists had rallied
round their new Governor, the Aiigus staff
would support their new general manager.” And
the staff had to put on a facial expression indica-
ting that they knew it was their duty to be loyal
and sing God Save tlm Queen and Bless our
General Manager.
Says Sir Henry James :
I know nothing more sadly retrogressive than the
attempt now being made to alter our law by sub-
jecting persons guilty of any or many different offences
to three floggings within a short space of time. If this
be sanctioned we shall be re-enacting torture in one
of its worst forms. The evil has never been flogged
out of a man, and certainly good will never be flogged
into him.
Lord Chief Justice Coleridge also gives it as his
opinion in connection with the recent attempt tp
extend flogging to a number of crimes, that “ mer-
ciful sentences are more likely to influence even
hardened criminals for good than severe ones.”
Unto Thee, “Bakblox.”
Deak Bulletin,—
“ All men are asses ;
Some drive other asses before them and call them the
masses ;
But, there’s not one among them all worth keeping alive.
“ If the whole of humanity were buried to-morrow
1 would write it an epitaph ; not one of those
That proclaim dead men’s virtues and living men’s
■ sorrows,
But—' Baal gammon, white man is one fool.’ ”
Farrell.
Contributor “Baxblox” queries, in The Bul-
letin, “ What is Duty? ” and he adds, “There is
the duty of man, there is th \ duty of the State.”
Let us pick up the thread that was dropped and
go on with it: —
What is Man ? —Ask Carlyle.
What is the State ?—Ask nobody. It is a gang
of politicians.
What is Duty ? —lt all depends.
On what ? —On social status. There is the duty
of lawyers, doctors, and politicians; of traders,
pimps and speculators; of every section of the
human line —commercial, industrial and profes-
sional. Lastly and chiefly, the duty of the man
natural; of Carlyle’s “mostlys” —fools.
The mad folly of humanity in its multitudinous
forms makes the appellation of fools ! asses !
roost comfortably on the head of all. Who has
not, at some period of their life, applied them to
his own dear self ? Let us on.
To make Law, to make it an incomprehensible
mixture, to claim the exclusive privilege of saying
how the High Priest of the Order should dole it
out, to use tongue-pie, charge for work never done,
and accept extortionate sums for work you never
intend to do, to obtain verdicts for the richest side
—this is the duty of Lawyers.
For the allopath, homo-path, hydropath, to de-
nounce each other’s and every other pathy as
a fraud and a quackery; to trade upon the fears of
the nervous and ignorant, to claim their own as
the only genuine panacea for the physical corrup-
tion of the community, to wax fat upon that oor-
ruption and call for suppression of “quacks”
who want a share in the poisoning of the people—
this is the duty of the medicos.
To be a double-barrelled liar, to be destitute of
conscience, to yell “for the good of the many’
and work for the aggrandisement of a few, to
clothe Timon, the man of Property, in the rags of
Demos, and say to the fools : “Behold the giver
of good things! He will hold the scales fairly and
distribute equity. We are his apostles. Give us
the reins and the power of government. Social
purity and material prosperity shall follow on our
rule.” To speak thusly. To go. “one better”
than your rival in bridges, roads, subsidies, duties,
emoluments—aye, even to the billet of Saint Peter
and the displacement of the ban-dogs of hell if
necessary. Anything, everything, possible or im-
possible—but a hold upon the handle of govern-
ment and the treasury of the people anyhow, and
at any cost.
And, having got power, what then? Why, to
deluge State billets with the family and the blood-
tribe right out to the 103rd cousin, till nepotism
fills alike the judicial bench and the reporters’
gallery, and inspectorships of everything. To
form a syndicate and buy land and get a railroad
through it. To buy land from the State for little
and trade it back for thousands. To float fraudu-
lent deposit-banks, bogus mines, ete., on the
strength of the “ honourable,” and when the
bubble bursts —after the harvest and the shearing
—act the innocent. To be the faithful of the
Mass and the bribed of Mammon —a double dealer.
To bawl “no favouritism” and act the nepotist.
To slap the breast, say “ Here am I, Honesty,”
and dive double-handed into the State Treasury.
To crawl into the charmed circle of the “ upper
orders;” to breathe the atmosphere of the titulars
rotten with the folly of generations or Snivelled
up with the curse of greed—to make this the be-all
and end-all of his life, or—to summarise, to enrich
self and the clan ; to squirm within the odour of
the “ pure bloods;” to deceive the masses and skin
the consolidated revenue, and, in a sentence,
verbally and practically to damn the people—-the
fools —this is the duty of the politician.
We have gone thus far. Lawyers, medicos,
politicians—uliginous, trinomial, sustaining _ yet
sustained by, breeding, yet feeding on the physical,
moral and mental degeneracy of the race.
The duty of traders, pimps and speculators,
what is it ? Time is short, treat them in the sec-
tions, Well, what is the duty of the sections ?
To prate of its rights as against all others —this is
the duty of each. To deputationiee the State,
or grab it, and get it to work their way to make
their interests and their fancies national and
eternal rights. That is the duty of the section.
The right of Might always.
Here is another : The man of the big “ push ”
the Mass. To believe in good government and
the word of a politician. To believe that M.L.A.
spells “honourable;” that “Governor” is the
synonym of “free people;” that representative
government means equity; that Law is Justice and
not privilege ; that the State is the mass and not a
clique ; that he is a portion of the State, a unit—
his portion is to keep on believing. It is his duty
to hold fast in the faith that Boards of Health sit
upon disease ; that Inspectors of Nuisances coun-
teract the filth of the people ; that Inspectors of
Rabbits have fatal effects upon the pest; that
vaccination is the death of smallpox, and that
cleanliness of body and healthy sanitary sur-
roundings are as nothing beside the magic wands
of calf or human corruption as prescribed by the
State—this is more of life duty. And to learn by
rote the catechism of ethics published by society
and custom and blessed by the State. Take a
chunk of it
What is Respectability ?—To possess Properly.
What is a Criminal ?—A poor man in gaol.
What is a Defaulter?—A well-to-do criminal.
What is Freedom ? —Law and Order.
Define “Law and Order,” —The interests of
Property.
Describe an Immoral Woman !—A mother with-
out a license to propagate.
What is Purity?-—Mrs. Grundy.
To learn this. To be an ignoramus in physiology
and psychology—a flesh-eater in a well-grassed
paddock. To be incapable of self-government and
yet govern others. To not know that he is brute
all over, beast dweller with the beast, bloody and
omnivorous. To not know this and to imagine
that he is Begum of all and his age the greatest
age—most intellectually, most socially pure. To
maintain the truth of the philosopher and the
bard by continuing to be non-thinking “ fool ” and
stupid “ass” —this is the duty of the Man National
■ —the Mass.
To maintain privilege for wealth and prison-
cells for poverty ; to furnish a living for politi-
cians and legal compounds for the glory of lawyers
and the damnation of humanity; to set odium
upon the unlegalised mother, and the seal of
bastardy upon her offspring ; to be the conservator
of all the odious customs, ferocious prejudices and
practices of the past ; to put the race into moulds
and turn it out with an eternal similarity of ideas
and beliefs, reverence for social customs and sub-
serviency to “Law and Order”; to turn out
women of spontaneity—stamping out her indivi-
duality to pa, ma, and Madam Fashion —making
her a mere automaton of prevailing usages ; to
dip man in the ethical curriculum of his day till
there are none so dishonest as to be unequal, but
each pays homage to Law and Order and obeys it;
each owns the social All Father Mammon and
bends the knee in prayer and supplication ;
“ Great and Omnipotent Power, bless me with
Thy favours, so 1 may hide behind the shield of
Law, the strong weapons of government, and
fleece my fellows in the cloak of Respectability.”
To support those —to these ends —is the duty of
the State. Amen.
EUGEME WARD.
Mark Twain
tells the story that at the inquest held on the
body of Buck Fanshaw —who during the delirium
of a raging typhoid fever had taken arsenic, shot
himself through the body, cut his throat, and,
jumped out of a tour-storey window, breaking his
neck—the jury, after due deliberation, sad and
tearful, but with intelligence unblinded by its
sorrow, brought in a verdict of “death by the
visitation of God.”
Buck undoubtedly committed suicide, and so
does every orie who neglects the first symptoms of
approaching sickness and disease. Nature always
gives ample notice of any disturbance of physical
processes ; sometimes it is neuralgia, sometimes a
sharp shooting pain in the abdomen or side, or a
dull or throbbing headache; no two persons get
the same symptoms. What you have to do is to
attack the first symptoms, for if consumption,
dropsy, cancer or Bright’s disease once gets a
start, you cannot stop its headlong course to the
grave. These are facts there is no disputing, for
all the medical skill in the world cannot do much
for you when real organic disease has set in.
We emphatically recommend Clements’ Tonic
because we know by personal experience and by
the evidence of influential and reliable people who
have used it that it will do good and prevent
disease. Clements’ Tonic is a medicine that
invigorates and strengthens the entire corporal
organism , it does not only affect certain members
but strengthens the whole system, thus prevent-
ing the attacks of disease.
The Tuinut and Adelong Times says :
Clements’ Tonic certainly deserves the popu-
larity it has acquired. We have had proof positive,
in eases (under our notice) in this neighbourhood,
of its valuable properties.”
Mr, T. Garrett, M. 8., says, “I have taken
Clements’ Tonic with great advantage.”
Mr. John Plummer, (Fort-street Public School)
says, “Mrs. Plummer has frequently derived
great benefit from the use of Clements’ Tonic."
Mr. S. D. Wood (Verger of All Saints Cathedral,
Bathurst), writes; “That he found Clements’
Tonic a grand pick-me-up and it completely cured
him of low spirits, indigestion, giddiness and
humming noises in the ears.”
Mr. G. Swan, Junee Junction, who suffered
from debility, cardiac Weakness and nervousness,
following on typhoid, took Clements’ Tonic and
says, “ That after taking 0 or 7 bottles his health
was fully restored, and that he can now eat any-
thing and do any reasonable amount of work,
whereas before taking Clements’ Tonic be could
do none at all.” ..
Clements’ Tonic can be obtained from an
medicine dealers or from E. M. CLEMENIS,
Newtown, Sydney.


of i fug ns j jp
Gf)ONl
'•V -
t
Sy
Msneoti
wm
jSofg QflgAV^.F.
HEELER & C?j&ydHoit
BUGGIES, BUCKBOAEDS,
—AND—
At MANUFACTURERS’ PRICES.
Send for Catalogues and Prices to
THE F. B. WHEELER C 0„
265 Clarence Street, SYDNEY,
Personal Items.
One of the imprisoned Brookong shearers
is named Tyson. But what’s in a name ?
Mrs. Campbell-Praed’s latest, the “ Ro-
mance of a Station,” is favourably reviewed.
LL.D. Madden’s £. s. d. in the first hear-
ing of the Moss will-case amounted to £725 11s. Cd.
Judge Boucaut, of Adelaide, does not be-
lieve in the Bible. Most colonial judges still swear
by it, however.
Lord Wolseley says that a British general
in parade-dress resembles the dressed-up monkey
on a barrel-organ.
Mr. O’Connor, the Canadian sculler,
travels with his legal adviser, a full-fledged
Canadian barrister.
Queen Victoria has given ten partridges
to the patients at Guy’s Hospital. There are
only 095 beds in the institution.
Railway Speight, of Victoria, is said to
have intimated that he will resign a't the end of
the year and return to England.
The deaths recently prominent
Australians -B. N. Jones ami Searle —are attri-
buted to drinking, when heated, iced water.
George Augustus Sala’s new wife, the
sister of “ John Strange Winter, ” i* a divorcee
who lately got rid of her husband, one Caralampi.
Stanley, of Africa, is amazingly like
Bis narck, in his favourite flat-topped white cap,
and the*"resemblance is increased by his getting
stout.
I 1 rank Gavan Duffy, the Melbourne bar-
rister, has but one birthday in every four years.
He wa* born the last day in February in a leap-
year.
Queen Aictoria is importing American
oysters. They are carefully selected, and their
shells are sandpapered till they shine like a clergy-
man’s nose.
Stanley, it is stated, is to get £40,000 for
his new African book. How anxious are the pious
British public to get early news of any crib that’s
to be cracked !
Judge Hood’s nose was broken in his
youth by a larrikin wielding a stone tied in a
handkerchief. Hood will now endeavour to get
level with the larrikins.
Tummy’s own private physician was quite
prepared for the present melancholia of Ids royal
patient. He has turned 49—the change of lim—
and his brain is probably softening.
Lord Torphichen, an English nobleman,
has successfully sued for divorce from bis wife,
the mother of four young “ Torps,” on the ground
of adultery with one Lieutenant Blosse.
Mrs. Gladstone, we read, hvs all her life
been a frugal eater, but an insatiable drinker,
considering tea the water of life and claret food
and medicine, as well as a valuable and harmless
tonic.
The Northern Miner (Q.), which knows
Willoughby Andrew, says he is insane, and that
should he be hanged, gaols and madhouses should
be abolished and gallows erected at every street-
corner.
Emin Pasha, whose real name is Edward
Schnitzler, is the son of a German merchant. He
is by origin a Jew, by education a Christian, and
a Mahommedan by predilection. Another Bal-
grave, in fact.
The Tichborne claimant is standing fur the
House of Commons seat just vacated by John
Bright’s son. We hope he’ll get in. Australia
will have no reason to be ashamed oWvim as a re-
presentative liar.
Bishop Thornton, of Ballarat, comes
groaning back to Australia, because of the ignor-
ance about us in English ecclesiastical circles, one
high dignitary having asked him whether Queens-
land was in Ballarat.
Ex-police Inspector Anderson says that
when he commenced his raid against the notorious
Sydney cafes at one licensing meeting there were
42 “honorary” magistrates sitting! What a
picture of corruption !
Giles, the Australian explorer, has got out
two volumes on “Australia Twice Traversed.’*
Giles is an able man, but has been bitterly dis-
appointed for years past, in not getting another
send-off for the interior.
The late Duchess of Cambridge (once Miss
“ Farebrother” and a ballet-dancer) was five years
the senior of her husband. Her real name wai
Higgins, and she was a printer’s daughter—born,
it is stated, in Australia.
The full name of the Marquis of Down-
shire, who was in Sydney the other day, is Arthur
Wills John Wellington Blundell Trumbull Sandys
Roden Hill. How will this sound at the door of
Heaven—or the gate of Sheol ?
Mr. David Gilbert Ferguson, just ad-
mitted to practice at the N.S.W. bar, is a young
native-born pressman of great promise who won
the Rosebery essay prize at the. Sydney University.
Mr. Ferguson hailed originally from Scone.
Lord Connemara principally resists the
divorce-suit by his wife because their family seat,
Coalstdun, in Scotland, is her property, and he
will be turned out. It is worth £2400 a year,
having been left her by her father, the Marquis of
Dalhousie.
Curiously enough, in the newspapers
recording the outbreak at Eureka in 1854 Peter
Lalor’s name is not once mentioned, nor does it
crop up during live trials of the prisoners for high-
treason. One newspaper describes the leader, but
does not name him.
In his recent African expedition Stanley
took 000 men from the mouth of the Congo, and
he had not gone far when lie had only 100 of them
left. The others had been shot down by order of
Stanley’s own court-martial, or had died through
disease or recklessness.
Governor Barkly’s son, Arthur, who spent
s 2 n J5 9? ' 8 earl .V days at Toorak, is now Governor
of Heligoland. Barkly had another son, a mid-
shipman one of 70 (out of 2(10) persons saved
from the wreck of the Orpheus on Manukau bar,
near Auckland, in 18(53.
The experience of all Americans with re-
gard to the N.S.W. Customs officials is not quite
so pleasant as that of Henry George. For
instance, when Livingston Hopkins came to
Sydney they looked inside his fiddle to see if any
opium or cigars were planted therein.
Mr. 11. Prendergast, the rich Sydney
brewer, has gone on a visit to Europe. A lot of
the fellows who drink his beer are just how on a
visit to Darlinghurst gaol - and so are a 1 t ofcold-
blooded pious rogues who are too deliberate in
villainy ever to drink anything stronger than
lemonade. Had you there !
Deniehy’s monument in the Waverley
cemetery stands about twenty feet high, is of
Melbourne blue-stone with marble panellings and
is surmounted by a "Celtic marble cross. ]fe is
■ erected in an enclosure 12 feet square which is
surrounded by an ornamented iron-railing and
as yet, bears no inscription.
Mrs. Kendal, asked by a parson “ What
is your candid opinion of the reason why actors
and actresses not come to church?” replied
In my opinion actors and actresses do not go to
church because they have some sense of humour.”
r l he Reverend Archdeacon Gunther asks a similar
question in N.S. Wales. Let us answer him in
the words of Mrs. Kendal,
Rev. Addis, Dr. Stuoug’g colleague at the
Australian church, was for many years a Roman
Catholic priest, but grew clean out of it, into
something not far short of Joe Symes. He is
much more definite than Strong, and fetches out
the sledgehammer, while it is fhe greatest puzzle
in Melbourne what Strong really believes, such is
his knack of mixing up the beautiful mirages of
rhetoric.
Joaquin Miller’s real Christian name is
Cincinnatus. He wears a broad-brimmed Panama
hat. a great pointed grey moustache, and hair —
worn with as much grace as a cavalier’*— falling
in yellow curls to his shoulders. But he has the
black frock coart; of conventionality ; and though
his collar is unstarched, a diamond buttons the
loose scarf which surrounds it in loose folds, and
another gem glitters on a finger. He is writing a
life of Christ.
“ Scabby ” Moffatt’s name has unex-
pectedly cropped up again in the marriage of his
daughter. It was Moffatt who offered his splendid
house at Hopkins Hill to the Duke of Edin-
burgh during his visit to Australia, and who,
thinking to entertain the Duke, ordered George
Robertson to send a ton or two of books to furnish
the library. An old eleetion-rhyme still lingers in
our memory :
Scabby is his. name and scabby is his pocket,
And scabby is the man that votes for Scabby Moffatt.
We are informed that Mrs. Willoughby
Andrew, wife of the man sentenced for murdering
Mr. Bartjett, at Sydney, is a broken-down woman
and in dire distress, and that while endeavouring,
during the last few to her eventful months, to
provide for the support of her three children, she
has been living mainly by means of the kind for-
bearance of the landlord and others who have now
gone as far as their means will allow. And as the
innocent should not, in any case, bear burdens
merely because of their relations to the guilty a
generous public will, we are sure, not be called on
i» vain. Subscriptions will be received at Thk
ButUKTiN office. We are, at present, unaware of
the circumstances in which Mrs. Bar,! tt, the
widow of Andrew’s victim, has been left, but
should it be found necessary to appeal to the com-
munity on that lady's behalf, a cordial response
may be reckoned upon.
POLITICAL POINTS
Henry George says he hopes yet to see
America receive Canada into the Union.
There were but two Ms.P. at Henry
George’s banquet—Garland and Plumb, both
Carcoar representatives.
“Private ownership in land,” says John
Burns, “was doomed six years ago, when Michael
Davitt, Henry George and myself stood on one
platform.”
Dr. Bevan has been lecturing on Socialism
in Melbourne. He was not antagonistic. Neither
was Bishop Barry till he got home into his own
proper Conservative atmosphere.
On the 20th inst. a conference will meet at
Berlin to consider the question of limiting the
hours of labour and abolishing the sweating
system. The Emperor of Germany is to open
the conference in full regimentals.
Mayor Burdekin, of Sydney (who has,
say, £(i0,000 or so coming to him annually in
house rent), declares that his reception of i . enry
George at the Town Hall does not imply that he
is in sympathy with the Single-Tax movement.
Let us smile.
THE SQUATTER OF TO-DAY.
WOOL PRESSES : “PRETTY HARD WORK, SIR."
SQUATTER: “YES—WELL, NOT SO VERY HARD.”
W. P.: “I’D LIKE TO CHANGE BILLETS WITH YOU, SIR.”
SQUATTER: “WELL, IE YOU GIVE ME £50 AND A PAIR OF HORSES
AND ACCEPT MY LIABILITIES AND THE STATION, ILL SWOP."
Sydney Echo professes not to understand
Gladstone’s motion—“ That it shall be competent
for a member of the House of Commons to refuse
to accept the denial of a Minister when that
Minister is a member of the House of Lords.”
The reason is obvious, the “denial ” comes second-
hand.
Thus Bibbs : “ There is one thing certain,
that the ultimate end of tiie agitation which is
now running through Australia, and Sir Henry
Parkes foreshadowed it unintentionally when
bespoke of onr becoming an important nation,
is bending the knee at every step to the Imperial
Throne.”
Dilke is working up again—the women
spoilt his chance of stepping into the shoes of the
G.O.M. II iw he would have got on in Australia!
But this is only our waggery—he would have no
chance in a country whose idols have been Parkes,
Berry and Service. Yet he has a bit of a show in
England.
Lord Dunraven lately said that “Labour
had gained a great deal during the last few years
■ that was to say, skilled labour; but, taking it
all round, he did not think it had gained in a fair
proportion to the gains made by capital. ” Awk-
ward admissions ! There is but one- beihg r more
foolish than the “Conservative” working-man
viz., the “ Radical ” peer.
Pali, Mall Gazette gives fac-similes of
Lisbon cartoons on the difficulty with England,
the best being one of Salisbury and a hideously-
caricatured Queen Victoria talking together Salis-
bury points out how the scheme of annexing all
Portugese Africa is spoilt by Portugal refusing
to go to war with J. Bull.
The imprisoned Brookong shearers are to
be released from gaol in a few weeks’ time—just
before'the N.S.W. general elections, in fact. This
is obviously a mere Foreign-trade sop to the
Shearers I n ion, for the Parkesian gang will need
every vote a*' next election. Were the remission
made.on the merits of the case, it would follow
that the Department of alleged Justice is giving
Judge Windeyer a nasty smack in the eye. The
shearers will know how to deal with the present
N.S.W. Government in this matter.
I lie Victorian members of Parliament say
that they made a big mistake, when passing the
charter of the local Tram and Omnibus Co., in not
including astipulation tha t members of Parliament
Khould be carried fiee. Several of their number
boldly avow that when next the company want any
further Parliamentary concessions, which will be
shortly, something will have to be given in ex-
change.
Referring to a speech by William O’Brien
, re^ease b om f? a °k the Christian
vVorld, a religious Radical newspaper having an
immense circulation in England, says :
What no report can well give, however, is the mon-
strong incongruity between the man’s simple heroic
earnestness and the fate to which he is again and again
consigned by the elected rulers of the British connuon-
wealtu. In a hundred years, nay, in fifty, the repeated
imprisonments of a man like this, at the risk of his life,
will be as black a stain on the records of this conceited
age as the burning of Smitbfield are on an honestly brutal
generation.
Burkes calls himself a Freetrader and a
hater of Protection ; but when one of the world’s
greatest and most logical Ereetraders, Henry
George, is announced to arrive in Sydney, Parkes
immediately has an important engagement up-
country. I rom a Parkesian point of view, George
might be good enough to walk about with in the
night-time but not t i be seen with in daylight.
Real T< reetrade —the honest, uncompromising,
genuine article is shunned and loathed by the
soi-disant N.S. W, Freetraders, the Calico Jimmies,
the revenue-tariff crowd, whose game it is to let
in manufactured goods free whenever it suits
them and tax raw material whenever it suits them,
as under the present N.S. W. tariff.
By way of antidote to Henry Georgeism,
the Argus has been feeding its freehold readers
with some of the stupidest, lopsidedest sophisms
ever evolved from the brains of journalists called
upon to argue against their own honest convic-
tions. The scheme of an Argus article on the
Single-tax question is simplicity itself. It con-
sists of setting an elaborate lie beside a rough
truth, and then wanting to know how it is possible
to reconcile such an elaborate “truth” with such
a rough “lie.” As it never is possible to reconcile
them anyhow, why naturally a number of fat
representative ’’ Old geesers fold up their leading
organ with an air of triumph, and snort for satis-
faction as they waddle out of the “office” to get
their matutinal drink.
The suggestion of Mr. Tom Johnson, the
great American Freetrader, that tramways should
be owned by the municipalities and run free by
them (just as hotel-lifts are run free), the cost of
maintenance being defrayed by a tax on the ad-
joining property of the district which, it is
assumed, would be improved in value by the tram,
was quoted by Henry George in Sydney the other
day. Setting aside the face that tramways often
decrease the value of property not only in residen-
tial, but also in business, streets, The Bulletin
contemplates with some misgiving the advent, in
connection with the fulfilment of the Georgian
land theories, of the Johnsonian lazy man’s mil-
lennium. The Single-tax would mean un-Cus-
tomed grog, and, therefore, rum at twopence a
h df-pint. When the. tanglefoot-factories shall
have closed up because a skinful of North Queens-
land snakej nice, which bites all the way down,
can be got at every grocer’s shop as a premium on
the purchase for cash of a pound of butter, it will
be time to have not only free trams, but free
stretchers, free stomach pumps, and free applica-
tions of galvanism to the soles of ihe feet. Of
course we have heard of the argument that were
grog free nobody would care a rap for it.
Seven Clinchers.
Things you ought to know and ponder well.
Ihat the kidneys are the only natural blood
purifiers, That all the blood imist go through the
kidneys for purification, as it goes through the
heart for oxidation.' That if it be full of poison,
that poison must affect every organ. That it is
very liable to be filled with uric acid (kidney
poison) without your knowledge, because the kidneys
may be diseased, and not give forth any pain.
I hat you cannot have good health and disordered
kidneys.
First.— -More adults are carried off by chronic
kidney disease than by any other malady except
consumption. That the majority per cent, of all
diseases are caused by unsuspected kidney poisoned
blood. That Warner’s Safe Cure is the most
wonderful and beneficient medicine ever given to
mankind. It cures the kidneys, and thus cures
all the many disorders which kidney poison
creates. It is the only recognised specific. It is the’
worlds supreme medical blessing. It has cured
millions of those whom the doctors have given up
to die. It will cure you if used as directed, faith-
fully, promptly, and in sufficient quantity.
Second. — Deaths from such diseases are increasing
at the rate of 250 per cent. Third. —Bright’s
disease has no symptoms of its own, and may long
exist without the knowledge of the patient or
practitioner, as no pain will be felt in the kidneys
or their vicinity. Fourth.— ln the fatal cases—
and most cases have hitherto been fatal—the
symptoms of diseased kidneys will first appear in
extremely different organs of the body as stated
above. Fifth.— Only when the disease has
reached its final and fatal stages may the usual
symptoms—albumen and casts—appear in the
water, and will great pain rack the diseased
organs. Sixth. Bright’s disease, which usually
has three stages of development, is a universal
disease in England, America and Australia.
Seventh.— There is but one remedial agent which
has ever cured a pronounced case of Bright’s
disease, and has inspired the confidence of the
physician, the patient, and the public—Warner’s
Safe Cure.
Whilst the Melbourne coffee palaces are
just tottering along, the local breweries are paying
from 20 to 30 per cent, dividends.


HEAT AND WIGS.
Adelaide, Wednesday —At the sitting of tho Supremo
Court to-day the heat was so oppressive that Mr .lufitico
Bundey laid aside his wig and the members of the bar
present immediately followed suit,.
Counsel for the prisoner (loq.) “ And.
your Honor, I think we might be still more
comfortable if your Honor would allow the
jury to smoke while your Honor is summing
up.”
Mayor Burdekin savs that he is
‘• not necessarily a Single Taxer.”
OF FtC
jĥ
V t v
m mm
losDOJf, Sunday.—The Times, writing.on the proposal of Baron Nordcnskjold, the famous Norwegian Arctic
explorer, to lead an expedition to the Antarctic Ocean in thd summer of 1891, says that the expedition would bo
easy of accomplishment provided that the Australian colonies, whd are most interested, would contribute from
£20,090 to £30,000 as a subsidy.
rumour (groundless, no doubt) that a Melbourne Syndicate,will taly; the
matter up. Doubtless by the time Lord Hopetoun’s term expires Federation aud tb.o
Antarctic regions' as a cool suburb of Melbourne will be accomplished facts.
f i^/cr/f on r ro'dAC'<fo"
T&dcOy' , rfe /f6or/q/ya.L
j?/(ft)eddy-youp /£ a s See/> Ca^iTu recL.
/y e /joSsc? / sdr''OQ /yctue-ect
friz I? cIJ To yecyd fi/y Sy> f?*?
Tfey /bSa. c-
Co Tjfrrt a-
yrr- 011 $e re
fe/ye (J fyere.
-jr— s/7/m
-pag.'-T - -■f ■-jjfj //ffc;
ghjh
A
Another eclipse visible just now in Australia.
Portrait of the present incumbent of the Sec of Sidney.
“ He never has been missed,”
A MELANGE.


ST. (HENRY) GEORGE AND THE DRAGON.
LABOR (in the clutches of the dragon): "IT’S VERY GOOD OF TOT MX, GEORGE, BUT YOU'LL NEVER BE ABLE TO DO IT IN THIS COUNTRY MOUNTED ON THAT OLD CROCK."


The SYDNEY DEPOSIT BANK,
90 —KING STREET-90
Established 1885.
Agencies in London and throughout Australia.
Overdrafts granted against Deposit of Deeds,
and all the usual banking business transacted.
The following are the Rates of Interest allowed
for Fixed Deposits:—
3 Years 9& per cent.
12 Months 8| per cent,
6 Months V, per cent.
3 Months 5S per cent.
6 per cent, allowed on daily balance of current account.
For the past Four (4) Years a Bonus of One per
Cent, has been paid in addition to the above rates.
This is the first and only Bank in the Colonies
which divides its profits with its depositors.
Communications from the country will be
promptly attended to.
T. S. RICHARDSON,
General Manager.
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
When next you bake try Pemell’s Snow-white Patent
Roller Flour, and your bread will be as white as snow.
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
“ A little American Hop Bitters saves big
doctor’s bills and long sickness.”
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
“The leading Packet Tea in New South Wales
is the Famous Billy Tea. Its consumption is
at least double that of any other brand in the
market.”
PACKED ONLY BY
James Inglis Co.,
4 & 0 Dean’s Place, SYDNEY.
Foreign & colonial exchange bank
OF AUSTRALASIA, Limited.
Sydney—B6 King Street.
Melbourne—369 Collins Street.
London Bankers —Australian Joint Stock Bank,
No. 2 King William Street, London, E.C.
This Bank undertakes the Exchange of Money,
both International and Intercolonial, includ-
ing the Coinage oe all Foreign Nations, in
addition to all usual and customary banking busi-
ness.
Deposits Received.
3 years
12 months ...
6 months ...
3 months ...
Communications to
... 8i per cent.
... S per cent.
... 7 percent.
... 6 per cent,
be addressed to “
Tlit
Managing Director.
D. J. WILSON,
Secretary.
W. H. PALING & COMPANY, LIMITE
356 George Street, SYDNEY,
Have Just Opened a Magnificent Lot of 3XTecw
Also of the wonderful Victor Pianos
Pianos from the celebrated Makers, Steinway, Erard, Ucbcl, Fenricb, Lipp, Ronisch, Ehthncr, Collat'd, and others
JS4:S and Eatey Organs, No such Variety or Value, elsewhere for Cash or Tekms.
at
Society
The Soudan warriors have celebrated with
wine and song the fifth anniversary of their
departure from Australia on slaughter bent. The
day will come when (as no one ever saw a dead
donkey) the only survivor of “ the boys ” will be
the donkey (now in Sydney Zoo) which they
stole from somebody in Africa. In our mind’s
eye, Horatio Shipway, do we see a great Austra-
lian historical picture, entitled “The Last Soudan
Dinner,” representing an ass branded K.C.M.G.
on near hind-quarter feeding on thistles out of a
coroneted manger.
* * *
If Baron Caring ton goes “home” in De-
cember his will have been the shortest reign of
any colonial Governor excepting Brisbane, who
was recalled, and Belmore, who resigned, having
made enough money by competing with the
Chinese in cabbage-selling to clear the ancestral
estates. Governor Macquarie reigned longest—
-12 years short of one month.
* * *
The N.S.W. Cremation Society has now
got an office in one of the Sydney arcades. An
inquiring man, seeing the society’s shingle hung
out, strolled into the office the other day and
bluntly inquired “ where the oven was ?” “We
oven’t got one yet,” replied the secretary.
* * *
Manager Bland, of the 8.1. and A.U.S.N.
Companies, was going to England by the Quetta,
but didn’t. So were about a thousand other
Queenslanders, with a hundred thousand more to
hear from. Surely the number of those who had
presentiments and knew something would happen,
is nearly as many as the number of those who get
presentiments every time a screw turns, and find
no occasion to mention it afterwards.
* # *
The Cunard Atlantic steamers have en-
joyed an unrivalled immunity from loss of life,
and one of the proprietors explained the reason—
“ We never employ cheap men.”
* * *
Exactly five years ago, on her correspond-
ing homeward trip, the Quetta got into a bad gale
in the Bay of Biscay. Her steering-gear gave way
or her propeller broke, or something. Anyway,
there she lay in the trough of the sea, helpless as a
log and threatened with swamping every instant.
“Up with a stormsail on the mizzen topmast
therein front, my hearties,” thundered Captain
Withers, or words to that effect. But “my
hearties ” weren’t about. They were skulking
below, and not even a pistol planted on their
serang’s majestic brow would bring either him or
them up to business. So they were left there,
while the officers and quarter-masters and cook—
white sailor-men—got up sail and worked the
ship’s head round to the wind and generally
handled her so that she rode out the storm. And
after this experience Captain Withers still stands
up for the Lascars ! Verily the venom of some of
the old sea “captings ” against their own colour is
a fearful and wonderful thing.
# # *
Several sweep-promoting “ladies” have
been dismissed from Flemington for “faking”
the tickets. The game is also worked at Rand-
wick.
# # #
A very choice scandal has been brewed
down south. The saintly and speculative Treasurer
of a southern church has, it is said, clawed the
Hospital Sunday collections, and is disgorging
them slowly. How is it that land boomers run
the churches?
* * *
Here is a paragraph bristling with the
barbed arrows of solemn truth. Some few week.*
ago a certain policeman, while on his beat in early
morning, felt chilly, and thought he would like
his overcoat, which he had left at home on the
previous evening. His domicile happened to
stand within his beat, so, on arriving there, he
aroused his wife and asked for the coat. Mrs.
Policeman put her head out of a top window and
threw down the garment. X 4607 proceeded on
his beat, and later discovered that he was wearing
—his inspector’s top-coat. A powerful moral (and
probably two stripes for the policeman) hang to
’this wicked story.
* * *
The Empress Eugenie has just presented
to the priests of the mortuary chapel at Farn-
borough, where the remains of Napoleon 111. and
the Prince Imperial are interred, a magnificent
altar-cloth, made from her wedding-gown. The
cloth has been made by the Empress herself. It
is trimmed with the lace and embroidery which
ornamented the dress. Which in a circuitous way
reminds us that an English gentleman has lately
bought the old historic prison at Port Arthur,
Tasmania, and the surrounding land, and intends
taking up his quarters there. He is going to use
the prisoners’ “ banqueting-hall ” as a ball-room,
and another large apartment will be converted by
him into a billiard-room. On the floor of an im-
mense drawing-room to be formed out of another
chamber in this pile of bloody remembrances he
will lay a large roll of splendid carpet bought by
him at the sale of the late Emperor Napoleon’s
effects at Chislehurst—which latter name is in
1 his connection distinc ly good. There are some
mixed associations for you ! The ghost of Rufus
Dawes stalks round at mionight and scowls at the
shade <f Warder Troke. Maui ice Frere spoons
with Sarah Purfoy in your old arm-chair. Napo-
leon the Little joins you in your nightly whisky-
and-water.
* * *
The London papers are remarking on the
inequality of the law that let Colonel Malleson off
with £lOOO fine for imputing a treacherous act of
seduction to Herbert Gladstone, and punished
Editor Parke with twelve months’ gaol for pub-
lishing what the spiriting away of his witnesses
prevented him from attempting to substantiate
and justify. Reynolds says that “Lord Euston,
the prosecutor, is, on his own admission, a creature
that clean-minded men and women should in
future avoid. He was once the friend of one Who
is now an outlaw and who is notoriously guilty of
A SUGGESTION FOR HOT WEATHER.
Scene, “Queenscliff.”
CISSY (in the water): “IS THAT YOUR NEW DRESS?”
MABEL : “YES, WITH GLOVES AND SUNSHADE, WOULDN’T IT BE LOVELY
FOR THE BLOCK?”
a horrible crime. He visited, he confessed, the
house where his friend indulged in foul orgies
with telegraph-boys and others, in the expectation
of seeing a degrading spectacle.
After the fire at her palace last January
the Queen of Belgium found herself with only one
chemise in the world. Which reminds us that in
North Queensland once we saw a most magnificent
personage, now married to the daughter of Aus-
tralia’s biggest quartz-king, lying in bed while a
lady locally known as the “ Bull Pup” washed
his only shu t. And when at last the shirt was
neai’ly dry, Divine Providenee sent along a tropi-
cal rain-storm which soaked it again. You never
can tell what may happen to a man in Australia.
* ' # *
A private in a British dragoon regiment
who gets tenpence a day, has been cast in £lOOO
damages as co-respondent in a divorce-suit.
# # *
Plaintive ad. :
A YOUNG Scotch Gentleman of good position and
birth requires temporary Assistance. Scotland
rally. Address, , Herald.
Why didn’t the young Scotch gentleman get the
recipe of his compatriot, Parson Macgregor, for
doing the colonies on twelve shillings and six-
pence ?
# * *
The coasting officers are going in for in-
creased salary. If this keeps up they will
presently earn enough to marry on, and thm what
will the lady passengers do ?
* * *
The Argus office is moved up street, past
the Daily Telegraph, while steps are being taken
for the complete re-building of the old premises,
which will be gutted and begun dc novo on a
magnificent design, which is to knock the Age
into a cocked hat. This move comes at last as a
surprise. The people are very much pinched in
the new place, but it is the best available, and for
the Argus to remove out of Collins-stroet could
not be endured, A Bourke-street or Little
Bourke-street Argus would lose caste at once.
# # *
“ John Campbell ” writes from Bulli :
Very likely when Federation takes place and the
Wollongong Harbour become an accomplished fact, city
editors will think this part of the country of much more
importance, and will devote much more attention to it,
for Bulli will then become the Brighton of the Mother
City, on account of its splendid scenery. Besides, should
you search all Australia, you could not find a better site
for a Parliament House than Smith's HWI, Wollongong, to
suit the Australian Federated Dominion.
All right. The President of the Australian
Republic will date his letter from Smith’s Hill,
Woollongong.
The simultaneously-loquacious ladies’ com-
mittee of the Melbourne Women’s Hospital have
erected a sombre daub to “ dear Lady Loch ” in a
corner of the board-room, over the bisouits-and-
j am cupboard. Looking at the “portrait,” one
can realise what Ophelia fiddling with a bunch of
vegetables at the age of 63 might have looked like.
Every fourth Friday the old women of the male
sex are permitted to join in the cackle of the lady
members, and the press is admitted after prayers
and consideration of “urgent ” cases. The other
day a grey-haired magnate in a frock-coat sug-
gested that a brass plate be stuck on dear Lady
Loch’s portrait stating what the picture was meant
to represent, “as otherwise future generations
would not know who it was, and it was right they
should. ” But—
Future generations, it’s very safe to say,
Who bring their little strangers to the garish ligpht of day
In the Melbourne Women’s Hospital won’t care a blessed
rap
For i .at picture, or for anything save their personal
mishap.
Future generations will have so much serious work
They won’t have time to waste upon Elizabeth, her smirk.
# * *
George and George’s big place, Collins-
street block, was burnt down some months ago,
but remains without an attempt to re-build. On
the Benchers’ block, the gap is like a front tooth
space in the mouth of Venus.
The contents of Herr Kahler’s studio ki
Melbourne were auctioned the other day, paintings
and gimcrackery fetching prices that spoke
volumes for the —let us say enthusiasm
of the Herr’s admirers. Perhaps no studio
of such large and luxurious pretensions ever
contained such a handsomely - framed collec-
tion of inartistic failure* as this successful
German gentleman offered to the world. A
few of his curios, notably some ivory carvings,
possessed considerable intrinsic value, but his
portraits in oils, and gaudy garden scenes with
upright foregrounds, were marvels of dreadful-
ness. A walk round Kahler’s Turkey-carpeted
showroom shook a deal of simple faith in tho
genius required for turning out millinery and
tailoring works like “ Melbourne Derby Day,” or
CROSSING THE BAR.
Alfred Tennyson’s Last Book.
Sunset and evening star,
And one clear call for me !
And may there be no moaning of the bar
When I put out to sea.
But such a tide as moving seems asleep,
Too full for sound and foam,
When that which drew from out the boundless deep
Turns again home.
Twilight and evening bell,
And after that the dark !
And may there be no sadness of farewell
When I embark.
For tho’ from out our bourne of Time and Place
The flood may bear me far,
I hope to see my Pilot face to face
When I have crossed the bar.
AT THE CHURCH PICNIC.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
’Neath the saplings straight and slender,
’Mid the heather full of bloom,
Sat I by a lady tender,
Whispering in the grateful gloom ;
Fitful breezes slyly stealing
Shook the blossom-buwlened shrub
Our enchanted haunt concealing
From the crowd beyond the scrub.
Fair was she and plump and pleasing,
With the brightest, bluest eyes,
Soft, small hands for covert squeezing ;
P’r’aps tire actson was not wise,
But I ventured soon to press them—
We were strangers ere that day—
’Twas no harm though to caress them,
Picnics now are run this way.
Was her waist not trim and taper —
Tempting to a supple ami ?
Doubtless this looks bold on paper,
But I yielded to its charm.
There and then I did enfold its
Dainty shape. I here avow
Frowned she not nor sought to scold —it's
Quite the thing at picnics now.
Glanced her dancing eyes demurely,
And her lips were ripe and red,
’Twas the proper sequence surely,
First to kiss her cheek instead.
Kissed I it, and tasted Heaven ;
Sure the dame did not demur—
Kisses stolen six or seven
Do not count at picnics, sir.
Thirty summer suns had glimmered
O’er her shapely golden head,
Where the wavy meshes simmered,
She’d been married once, she said.
The* I kissed her full lips flushing,
And an answ’ring pressure got —
Where’s the reason there for blushing ?
Picnics *an«tify a lot.
Sate we long amongst the heathor,
’Till they rang the bell for tea,
Hearts and faces close together,
Talking sweetest poetry.
Then with parting pressure hearty
Soft regrets shone in her face
Both rejoined the picnic party
Just in time to join in grace.
Soon again I saw her quaintly
Superintendent o’er an urn
With an aspect sweet but saintly ;
Hungered I her name to learn.
“Who is she, so plump, with panik-
Ins of Congou by her side ? ’’
“ Parson’s wife ! ” a grim, laconic
Party on my right replied.
So she was—the Reverend Mrs.
Abram Ebenezer Bunco—
Yes, she told me ’tween the kisses
That she had been married once.
Caesar, though ! she didn’t say that
Abram still was at the plough ;
Well, it’s Kismet ! Tisawaythat
They have got at picnics now.
EDEARD DYSON.


The -11 ©« OPTIMUS
Marvellous -s. 'it,. WATCHES
The Best, Cheapest and Most Accurate Timekeepers
ever produced.
Made espec'ally to our order by one of the leading and
most celebrated manufacturers of Watches in Switzerland,
and experience has shown that no watch is better than a
well-made Swiss one.
Gilt movements, jewelled in six holes, keyless (10 turns
to wind), enamel dials, crystal faces, well made, splendidly
finished, nickel cases that will wear excellently; in fact
real good-looking, handsome little watches, and magnifi-
cent timekeepers.
Twelve months’ guarantee forwarded with every one.
Send 1’.0.0. for 19s. 6d. (Is. postage), and have one
forwarded by post. If not in every way satisfactory after
a week money willingly refunded.
Only to be obtained from
FROST Sc SHIPHAM,
Spectacle Makers, Opticians & Electricians,
474 & 537 GcorSc Street. Sydney.
Everybody should use Peuiell’s latest best Snow-white
Patent Holler Flour. It is the greatest success of the
age.
Us 3 Batho’s Baking Powder.
“Purify the blood, cleanse the stomach, and
sweeten the breath, with Dr. Soule’s American
Hop Bitters. ”
Ambidextrous men are the exception . The
nails of the right hand can be trimmed as easily
as the left, by the use of McDonald's Nail Trimmer.
All chemists. Price one shilling.
The Choicest Jewellery. Daiims &Co., King-st. Arcade.
iKVI
Watches and Jewellery are like good wives—they are
worth having.
Send for Illustrated Price List. Post Free.
813 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
(Nearly opposite Railway Station).
Factories: London, England.
£2 10s. English Lever, Two Years’Guaranteed.
£3 10s. English Lever, “The Unequalled,” full cap.
£4 English Lever, “The Special,” compensated.
20/- The Unequalled Keyless Watch. 20/-
Country Residents and Visitors to Sydney call or send
to A. SAUNDERS, Sl3 George Street (nearly opposite
Railway Station), SYDNEY.
Ladies’ Silver Watches, 355. Daiims & Co., King-street
Arcade.
The people of Sydney should remember
that for the finest and cheapest photos, they
should pay a visit to Chubb & Praeger, Empire
Galleries, 482 and 484 George-street, over Beales.
The rb er Eumarella escaped celebrity once
by nearly drowning Jimmy Tyson.
Old-fashioned Jewellery modernised to perfection. De-
signs free. Daijms and Go., King-street Arcade.
Land at Perth, W.A., the best investment.
Plans from Intercolonial Investment Co., Ltd.,
1)6 Bathurst-ttreet, Sydney.
Reliable Watch Repairs. Daiims & Co., King-st. Arcade-
Mrs. Malaprop, of Potts Point, says every
gentleman takes off his hat when the band plays
the National Anathema.
Bona-Fide announcement. Highest cash price
given for all kinds of gent’s left off clothing.
Dress-suits for sale or hire. Letters promptly
attended to by QUITTENTON BROS., 11l
Russell street, MELBOURNE. (New number,
163 J
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
Write for plans £lO Building sites, Perth,
Western Australia. Intercolonial Investment
Company, Limited, 1)0 Bathurst street, Sydney.
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
A Sydney gentleman possesses a 1.0. U. of
G. V. Brooke for £3, on which lie would not now
take a large premium.
WHYYOIJ SHOULD USF
Scon s Emulsion
of Ooc3L Liver Oil ■WITH
HYPOPHOSPHiTES,
It is used and endorsed by Physic
dans because it is the best .
It is Palatable as Milk.
It is three times as efficacious as plain
God Liver Oil,
It is far superior to all other so-called
Emulsions.
It is a perfect Emulsion, does not sepa-
rate or change,
It is wonderful as a flesh producer.
It is the best remedy for Consumption,
Scrofula, Bronchitis, Wasting Dis-
eases, Chronic Coughs and Colds.
Sold by all Chemists.
SCOTT & BOWNE, New York.
Robertson’s Whisky
:C2OO 3P1^.X253Z33.
‘IT oi lim! ‘HT <_T ‘ipwo **T J<> 91
: K.V.<! , ; r UM kv
sm:x</:cx> hiii xi avavv kliaio
Pamphlets from the Agents, A T_b3l tr F J «&; 00. 9 Limited, CHARLOTTE PLACE, SYDNEY
the “Lawn at Flemington.” His full-sized
women are worse than his men, and his children
more irritating than either. True, many of the
subjects were unfinished, especially in the matter
of hands, the Herr’s seeming inability to paint, or
even attempt a human paw, being the most striking
characteristic of his “style.” Gravel paths
appear to break him up entirely. They are
muddy-brown ramparts to broad expanses of
bright-green grass-plots. Kaliler’s perspective
efforts would do credit to a Japanese fan, and
doubtless give great satis'actlon to the nobility
and gentry of Toorak, who “ anted-up ” £lOO or
£3OO at a time for canvasses which made less
enlightened critics feel glad that tin artist is
about to take a long journey to Jorieho and the
surrounding district.
* # *
The Melbourne Athenaeum is a kind of
Sleepy Hollow, and it is suggested that Secretary
Curtis or Librarian Smith might take a run over
to the Sydney School of Arts with advantage. In
the library they seem to worship books according
to their age, and such a rusty-fusty collection
would do justice to Old Saruin or some such out-
of-the-way jilace in England. Then the Magazines
are all stale.
* # #
Apropos of the Quetta, Mrs. Trollope,
the novelist Anthony’s mother, was once enter-
tained, they say, by a reverend gentleman with
an account of how nine young men went out boat-
ing on a Sunday, and the boat capsized. The
reverend snuffled, “ Two of the young men were
Providentially sa-a-ved.” Mrs. Trollope rejoined,
“ I suppose the other seven were Providentially
drowned ! ”
# # #
A Melbourne publican was summoned a
week back for refusing to supply a man with aj
meal. Our kindliest intentions are often so mis-
construed.
# # #
The men at Point Nepean (Vic.) battery
were enjoying some gun-praotice one day. the
other week and nearly knocked the stuffing out of
a small steamer fully half-a-mile to the left of their
target. The aims and objects of the average Vic-
torian gunner are widely divergent.
# * #
The last will and testament of a deceased
Melbourne doctor directs that all his locked and
clasped books are to be cast, unopened and un-
read, into a burning, fiery furnace. Much of the
secret history of Toorak is believed to have been
written in those sacred volumes. Spicy stories of
fathers, who hump the plate at church, lie bare
beside giddy narratives concerning matrons who
never miss a Government ’Ouse garden-party.
And a few specially-interesting chapters were sus-
pected to be red with “ maidens’ ” blushes. Ah !
’tis love, ’tis love, ’tis love, that makes the world
go wrong.
* # #.
A Sydney pawnbroker says the Chinese
are his best customers, many articles being “put
in” and “ taken out ” half-a-dozen times in one
day. Gambling!
# # *
If everything we hear as to a recent
notorious divorce-case (undefended) be true, it’s
time a “Queen’s proctor” were appointed to
thoroughly sift undefended cases.
# # w
Charles Jones Fox, tile-layer, was among
the fortunate few who found the Newmarket and
Australian Cup “ double.” Charles went down to
Flemington to see Dreadnought win him his £lOO
to 10s., and the result was that “he became so
excited and exhibited such tokens of joy as to
overreach his strength. He sank down on the
turf exhausted, and when examined was found to
be dead.”
The Tale op a Fox.
A long farewell to Charley Fox;
No more he’ll smart ’neath fortune’s knocks,
Nor have his little bit on “ crocks.”
No more he’ll frown and bite his nails
When, from the jump, his “ fancy ” fails :
No more he’ll cheer for Tommy Hales.
No more he’ll put his boots and socks
On one that’s last to pass the box—
He’s dead and gone is Charley Fox.
When gallant Churchill scored a win
’Twas good to see poor Charley grin,
For then he Ind his “ first leg in.”
His second pick (as you’ll suppose)
Was Dreadnought, so anon he goes,
And lands his “ double ” by a nose.
What joy for Charley, what delight
When Dreadnought sneaked the Cup for White !
It nearly turned his brain—or quite.
“ I’ve won my hundred quid,” he cried,
“ Tom showed ’em all the way to ride.”
Then Fox sat on his hat and died.
E’en in the moment of his mirth
He died one hundred sovereigns worth—
Foretasting Heaven while on earth.
Though punters be by parsons chid,
Yet may we die as Charley did
The winner of a “ hundred quid !”
* * #
The Connemara difficulty arises over the
H on. Mrs. Quin, a lady devoted to tiger-shooting
and Cupid-darting at Governors. Ah, they are
very susceptible. Sir George Bowen—well, never
mind; we don’t find anything about those little
Melbourne affairs in his memoirs
* * *
One of the Australasian gubernatorial
lord lings is turning tail—Onslow, of New Zealand
—but Kintore keeps carpet-bagging round and
avoids ennui. Salisbury is savage, for the supply
of “good ” young lords is very limited.
* # *
Very persistently, day after day, has an
obituary “In Memorial!” notice appeared in one
of the Melbourne papers, being commemorative of
a very old clergyman who died a twelvemonth
ago, leaving a very young widow. “The lady
doth protest too much, methinks.”
* * *
It is questionable if it adds to the dignity
of a Minister of the Crown to be hauled round
Sydney in a drag - with even a champion sculler, and
followed by the roughs of the slums.
* # *
A highly - respected police - magistrate,
formerly in a Wos tom town, who is as grey as a
goose, astonished the police and public by appear-
ing on the bench one morning with beard and hair
as blade as a crow. It took him weeks to get rid
of the dye and months to get rid of the “ chaff.”
# # *
“French Peter,” a Rockhampton fisher-
man, whose boat “ suddenly split asunder and
went down ” at five o’clock one evening, says he
swam all night and only reached the shore at five
o’clock next morning. Good old French Peter!
We hope he hasn’t been reading about Miss Lacey.
*# * #
Mr. Marcus Huish, the dear old gentleman
who was at least indirectly responsible for the
appearance in the N.S.W. National Gallery of
that bogus “Roll Call,” has given it as his opinion,
I JUST oROO?EO A BftAN'DY'
Ako soda ANo a of Mil<J
MISS S'*,ifi' L 'r)W* DO*< iO\J HAW t
A So DA Tqo. ,ff/i
PAp* 9 " /fill
gjh
THE MODERN MISS SMITH.
apropos of the “Royal ” Anglo-Australlan Society
of Artists, that the title in question has been
bestowed with such frequency on art societies as
to utterly destroy its significance.
’* # #
The tender mercies of the wicked are
cruel. A beautiful lady is lapped in luxury as
the wife of a millionaire, but her toadies persuade
her that the little twopenny-halfpenny recitations
she gives them prove her capacity as a Siddons,
Rachel, or Ristori. Then she goes on the stage.
Disillusion! The beautiful home, husband,
wealth, health all gone ! Make a drama of it.
* * #
THE TWO O’CONNORS.
Says Dan O’Connor to BlllO’Connor
“ You are a hero bold, ’pon honor !”
Says O’Connor Bill to O’Connor Dan —
“You bet ! Just put it there, old man.”
Then O’Connor Dan asked O’Connor Bill
His bumper fair once more to fill.
As both O’Connors drained their liquor
’Twas plain that while one sculls the quicker
The other fellow’s skull’s the thicker.
A Woman’s Grievance.
HOW I TRIED TO JOIN THE N.S.W. TYPO-
GRAPHICAL SOCIETY.
Dear Bulletin,— lt was with considerable mis-
giving that I—a woman —made up my mind to
seek admission to the Typographical Union of
N.S.W. Not misgiving as to my ability to fill the
requirements that a first-class office would expect
from a first-class operative, for I had served a
long apprenticeship to the trade in New Zealand,
and besides working at the case had satisfactorily
filled the positions of reader and forewoman. I
knew my speed as a mere mechanical compositor
would enable me to pass an examination, which
I was told the most exacting of the Sydney dailies
require applicants for employment to undergo
before they are put on the “available” list, and I
was aware that many of my trade brethren—mere
type-snatchers, and less competent than, myself in
the operation of setting up type—were leading
lights of the Typographical Union, and it was
not, therefore, through any lack of self-confidence
that this feeling of misgiving was due. It
arose from my knowledge of the jealousy with
which the male workman guards from women the
avenues to employment. I knew that no matter
how eloquently the right of woman to work might
be advocated, how logically her case might be
stated, the tribunal was a prejudiced one. On the
other hand, to encourage me I had the example of
the persistent Belva Lockwood, the first female
barrister, and other noble women, who in fighting
for themselves had done service for the emancipa-
tion of women generally, and on the prin-
ciple of “ nothing venture nothing win, ’ I
tremblingly approached the Typographical Union.
I forwarded my indentures of apprenticeship an
other credentials, ss. as entrance-fee, and in my
application sought to combat in advance the objec-
tions that I felt sure would be made. I dealt with
the question of woman-labour in printing-offices
generally. I stated that from my experience there
was nothing demoralising in men and women
working together in printing-offices any more than
in drapery and other sto. es, where the employees
are of both sexes, and I pointed out that surely
male compositors could behave themselves in the
presence of women as well as the male draper’s
assistant. I said that my application to join the
Society was an earnest of my intention, if pos-ibhq
to do naught to cut down the current rate of
wages; that, feeling capable, I had a very natural
desire to sell my labour in the best market. I
further informed them that I could easily get
work at a non-union office, whore 1 would have to
work at half the wages I ould earn in a society
office—implying, of course, that it would be more
in the interest of the Society that I should work
for full wages instead of competing with its mem-
bers at half-rates. I mentioned that the manager of
a Society printing-office—and a strong believer in
trades-unionism b t had offered me employment
if they would give me the “ Hall mark ” of mem-
bership.
in reply to this I received a very kind letter
from Mr. C. Jones, the secretary, telling me that
the application would be considered shortly.
He wrote so considerately that I began to
think that chivalry and intelligence would
govern the action of the Society. I was
doomed to disappointment, however. After wait-
ing three weeks I received the following letter ;
Sydney, Feb. 24, 1890. Dear Miss Hill,— The question
of your admission to our Society came on for discussion
on Saturday evening and was fully entered into, a num-
ber of the delegates being opposed to the admission of
ladies, although expressing admiration of your spirit and
integrity ; others supported your claim and admitted
your right, but it was finally decided: “That this Board
cannot entertain Miss Hill’s application, as the accept-
ance of female candidates for membership is against our
constitution.” This motion was founded on rule 5, book
1, which please find enclosed ; also indentures, references,
returned with admission fee, &c., and believe me, yours
faithfully, C. Jokes, Sec.
The enclosed rule was as follows :
Every applicant for admission to this Association shall
deposit an entrance-fee of ss. and place before the Secre-
tary his indentures, or other documentary articles or per-
sonal testimony of his claims and eligibility to engage in
the capacity of a journeyman compositor, or to be in any
way lawfully employed under these rules.
Women can’t reason, of course; they only act
on impulse, and I had a pretty strong “ impulse”
that the decision was illogical, that public opinion
would not endorse it, and that if I could induce a
Union employer to take the risk of employing me
the Council would either have to back down and
admit me or precipitate a strike on an issue that
would alienate from them the support of everyone
who could regard the question free from bias. But
I did not want to force the Council to admit n»e
unwillingly, nor did I wish to get in by a side-
wind. The outcome of this decision was the fol-
lowing letter :
Sydney, Feb. 28, 1890. To the Secretary of the N.S.W.
Typographical Society. Dear Sir, —I have to acknowledge
with thanks the receipt of your letter intimating the
decision of your Council regarding my application : also
returning the ss. tendered by me as entrance-fee. With
reference to the decision all I have to say is that unless
your Council propose to eliminate from their rules the
portions that inflict disabilities on me, they will lay them-
selves open to the accusation of having in an unmanly
manner declined to face the matter fairly and entrenched
themselves behind that most vulnerable of defences—a
mere verbal quibble. Presuming that it is the intention
of your Board to initiate steps for the removal of my
disabilities, may I ask if they will grant me a temporary
dispensation to work in a Society office or in a non-Society
office without jeopardising my ultimate right to enrolment
as a Society member ? I may say that I have an offer of
employment in a non-Society office at a wage about half
what I could earn in the Society, so I would of course
prefer a dispensation permitting mo to work in a Society
office, a course, I think, which would be less prejudicial
to the intersets of the trade, in that I should have to do
the same amount of work for about half the wages in a
non-Society office. In conclusion, sir, I have to thank for
your great kindness and courtesy, and remain yours
respectfully, Annie Hill.
And such is a brief history, so far, of the attempt
of a woman to get market-value for her labour.
ANNIE HILL.
Sydney, Bth March, 1890.


THE CLEVER GIRL.
“ He is a man of rank, papa,
A lord of high degree ;
His wealth is simply fabulous,
And he wants to marry me.”
“Be still, my child,” the old man said,
“ And tell me without fear,
I’ve learned that both his wealth and rank
Lies.in St. Louis Beer.”
Use' Bathu's Baking I’owder.
Ladies’ Silver Watches, 355. Baums & Co. King-street
Arcade
Amusements.
r|IHEATBE ROYAL-
Under the Management of Messrs. Williamson,
Garner and Musgrove.
Lessee, Mr. S. Lazar. Treasurer, Mr. Geo. L. Goodman.
IMMENSE SUCCESS ! IMMENSE SUCCESS !
of the
NEW LONDON DRAMATIC COMPANY
in
-T HE POINTSM A Pi-
Admission—ss., 3s. and Is.
JJER MAJESTY’S THEATRE.
Lessee and Manager ... Mr. Geo. Rignold.
Doors open at 7 ; commencing 7.40. Carriages at 10.45.
ENORMOUS SUCCESS ! ENORMOUS SUCCESS!
of the New and Original Drama,
]VEy Jack. IS/X. y Jack.
Box Office at Theatre from 10 to 5. Prices as usual.
J. P. Macdonald, Acting-Manager.
QRITERION THEATRE
Sole Proprietor Mr, John Solomon.
Under the Management of Messrs. Brough and Boucioault.
General Manager . .. Mr. Mayne.
Doors Open, 7. Overture, 8. Carriages, 10.25.
LAST TWO NIGHTS ! LAST TWO NIGHTS !
of the Unrivalled Comedy,
C-A-S "37 33 !
(By arrangement with Mr. Geo. Rignold.)
SATURDAY, MARCH 15, T. W. Robertsen’s World-famed
Comedy, “ OEMS."
Admission ... £2 2s. to Is.
Box Plan at Nicholson’s, Carriages at 10.25 p.m.
Joe Davis, Business Manager,
[A CARD.]
CJTANDARD THEATRE.
** Lessee and Manager ... Mr. Tom Sawkixs.
Farewell Engagement of
G- EJ O’ - O. jfcE X L IST,
In a Choice Repertoire of Classic Plays.
POPULAR PRICES.
qpera house.
Acting Manager ... Mr. F. Gunther.
LAST TWO NIGHTS ! LAST TWO NIGHTS!
or
Mr. CHARLES PALM Ell
LN
“HANS THE BOATMAN,"
Charles Palmer—“ Hans the Boatman.’’
PHICES-35., - 2s. and Is. Box Plan at Nicholson’s.
■gONDI AQUARIUM.
The Most Popular
PICNIC and PLEASURE GROUNDS or AUSTRALIA.
The Famous Switchback Railway, conveying
Passengers from Cliff to Cliff daily.
Splendid Asphalt Open-Air Skating-Rink Free to Visitor's.
Open Daily from 10 a.m to 10 p.m.
Admission, Is.; Children, 6d. Trams to Gate —Fare, 4d
rp H E CYCLORAMA!
THE MOST MARVELLOUS
ART DEVELOPMENT OF THE AGE !
Here one of the world's greatest military struggles is
brought in every detail before the spectator, surrounded
by all the beauties of one of the fairest American land-
scapes.
100 Square Miles within One Building !
Open every Day—lo to 10. 8®” BAND DAILY.
PATRICK’S DAY CELEBRATION.
THE UNITED IRISH SOCIETIES
will hold a
G-rand National Celebration
ON
ST. PATRICK’S DAY, at BOTANY,
On Monday, Marcli 17.
o
Proceeds in aid of the Irish Evicted Tenants.
An Extensive Programme of Sports.
Two Bands Playing all Day.
Orations by Representative Citizens.
o
A PROCESSION of Members, headed by (he
Scotch Pipe and French Model Band, will start
from St. Benedict’s at !) a.m., march through
George and Bridge Greets to the tram ternvnus,
thenca to Botany by tram.
Special Trams at Ordinary Fares.
Admission to the Grounds :
ADULTS, 25.; CHILDREN FREE.
In the evening a Grand National Concert
wi'l be held at the New Masonic Hall, commenc-
ing 8 o’clock. All the best available talent
secured.
F. B. FREEHILL, Esq., President.
H. E. KELLY I Hon.
JAS. WARD / Secs.
INGHAM’S
PATENT SCALE INSTRUCTOR
FOR THE—
PIAFTOPOETE.
PUPILS can obtain the above at once, and the best
way to illustrate its usefulness to them is to sup-
pose a man to live to be a hundred years old and never
to have seen a Piano, he would, with five minutes’
instruction, be able to play the most difficult Major and
Minor Scales on the instrument.
A. £5-NTOTE for 6H.
GENUINE COMPETITIONS.
Form two Words from the letters
“TEMABEID S.”
£5-Note forwarded to each person sending right
answer. One Guess (id.; every three Guesses, Is.
Send Stamps. Competition closes,
Wednesday, 26th March, 11 a.m.
Send in your answers at once. Prizes sent same
day. Answer advertised in Bullttin same week.
Address >
J. ANDREWS.
No. 8 Marian Street, Enbtore, Sydney.
Business Announcements.
The Australian Mercantile Loan and
Guarantee Co. (Limited).
Head Office :
Corner of Market and fork Streets, SVDMElf.
Melbourne—283 Collins-street East.
Brisbane—Corner Edward and Elizabeth Streets.
Newcastle—27 Hunter-street.
Directorate:
FllANK J. SMITH, Esq., M.L.A., Managing Director.
J. P. HOWE, Esq., M.L.A. O. J. FINLAYSON, Esq.
E. H. BUCHANAN, Esq. JAMES MILLER, Esq.
The Company grant immediate advances upon
Deeds of Land, Bills of Lading, Merchandise,
Storage, and Bond Certificates, and all classes of
mercantile and other approved securities, for fixed
terms or repayable by instalments.
Interest Allowed on Deposits:
3 months ... 6 per cent.
A. MILLER ... General Manager.
THE
Australian Banking Company ,
LIMITED.
and MARKET STREETS, SYDSET,
Incorporated under Ilia Companies Act, 187h.
Authorised Capital, £500,000, in 100,000 Shares of £5 each.
Subscribed Capital, £75,000.
o
FRANCIS ABIGAIL, M.L.A.,
Chairman of the Board of Directors.
A Branch of the Bank has been opened at Goulburn
under the management of C. H. Atkinson, Esq. (lately
Branch Manager of the Bank of New South Wales) for the
transaction of General Banking Business.
The Bank has paid its Shareholders a dividend of 10 per
cent, every half-year since its formation.
The Bank transacts all usual banking business in every
particular.
Special advantages granted to Commercial Clients.
Overdrafts granted against deposit of Deeds.
THE HIGHEST RATES OF INTEREST GIVEN FOR
PINED DEPOSITS.
The Share Register is now open for the allotment of
Shares—New Issue.
By order of the Board of Directors.
RODERICK M‘NAMARA, Manager.
Forms of application for Shares may be obtained at the
Bank.
TURPIN & BRIAN,
Wholesale ami Family Grocers,
616 George Street, Sydney,
ARE
—jFLEsnviovinxrca- -
To those Spacious Premises formerly oocupie]
by R. S. TIGHE, Wholesale Groeer,
623 GEORGE STREET
SYDNEY.
LOOK OUT FOR FUTURE ISSUES.
iw NOTE THE ADDRESS:
623—G eorge Street—623
Brickfield Hill, SYDNEY.
(Two Doors from Lawler’s.)
NOW ACKNOWLEDGED
TH E BEST
IN THE MARKET
ghjh
W H ! S K V
M.W.tC"
SOLD
EVERYWHERE
uH.U
\
“ They fit perfectly , and are
far superior to all the other
Cornets I have tried.”
j (Signed) Marie Rose.
THE Y&^|
PATENT
Diagonal Seam Corset
Will not Split in the Seams
nor Tear in (lie Fabric.
Exquisite Model, Perfect
Comfort, Guaranteed Wear.
Beware of worthless imita-
tions. Every genuine Y& N
Corset stamped “Y&N Patent
Diagonal Seam Corset, No. 116,” in oval.
THREE GOLD MEDALS!
iW Sold by nil Drapers and Ladies’ Outfitters.
Furniture, &c.
EWT O N AND LAMB.
FURNITURE and PIANOFORTE
WAREHOUSEMEN,
CABINETMAKERS, UPHOLSTERERS
SPRING and O’CONNELL STREETS,
OVERMANTEL, COUCH, EASY CHAIRS,
CARVING CHAIRS and DINING CHAIRS,
all to match. Newton & Lamb.
SELF- A i)J 11STIN (r HAMMOC K CHAIR,
Patents.
This chair adjusts itself to any position, from
sitting to reclining and vice versa, at the will of
the occupant. It is simple yet ingenious in its
construction; works automatically. The above
cut represents only two of the numerous positions
that can be obtained instantly, and with but little
effort. It fits perfectly every part of the body,
and gives the occupant entire rest. We can now
supply portable suspension Stands to enable the
Chair to be used anywhere. Price, with Stand,
305.; without Stand, 255.
Packing in canvas, if Required, 2s. Gd. extra.
RAWING-ROOM SUITES,’ Fashionably
Upholstered, at all prices.
OCCASION A L TABLES mail Wood A Im-
mense variety of designs; also, elegantly
finished in Embroidery, Plush, &c. Newton and
Lamb.
and
BEDDING MANUFACTURERS.
SHOW BOOMS AND MANUFACTOBY:
*
T A LNU T FALL
FRONT PEDESTAL
WRITING DESKS, of vari-
ous sizes, fitted with Shelves,
Moveable Pigeon-holes, Slid-
ing Trays, Stationery, Draw-
ers, revolving portable triple
Inkstand. Receptacles for
Stamps, and Ruler and Pen
Racks. Outside Drawers divided into compart-
ments by movable partitions to admit of enlarging
or diminishing the space when required. Locks
automatically. One of the most useful, commo-
dious, and perfectly-planned articles for the Library
or Office yet produced. Admirably suited to the
necessities of professional and business men.
WALNUT FALL FRONT SINGLE
PEDESTAL WRITING DESK.—
Internal arrangements almost identical with the
description given above. Price only £l2 10s.
KKt-
sr«
•i.
Drawing-room
cabinets.
Early English
CHIPPENDALE DESIGNS.
Newton & Lamb.
-3
| > EDSTEAD S, all size
Nickel-plated and Black and
Brass. Great variety.
Bedding. —All descriptions
at lowest rates.
Newton & Lamb.
ĥjhg
SP II I N G MA T-
TRESSES (Woven
Wire), best make; also,
Spiral Spring.
Price, from 7s. 6d. each.
(NHEAP FURNITURE.—Pine Tables, from
J 10s. ; Dining Tables, from 20s. ; Kitchen
Dressers, from 225. (id.; Washstands, from 12s. 6d.;
Chests of Drawers, from 405.; Wardrobes, from
80s.; Cedar Cheffoniers, from 30s. ; Cedar Side-
boards, from £3 35.; Clothes Horses, from
Bs. 6d. ; Writing Tables, with drawers, from 255.
&
I
C E
ALL
C HEBT S.
SIZES.
PRICES LOW.
NEWTON and LAMB.
ghjhg
J^XCELSIOR
UPRIGHT
IMPROVED
REFRIGERATORS.
Various Sizes, from 455.
N
E WTON AND LAMB.
FURNITURE and PIANOFORTE
WAREHOUSEMAN,
CABINETMAKERS, UPILOLSTERERS
AND
BEDDIN G MAN UFACTURERA
Show Rooms and Manufactory ;
SPRING and O’CONNELL STREETS.
Have you heard Henry George speak %
Would you also be an orator? _ Then drink
Marshall’s Tonic Nervine. It steadies the nerves
and brightens the wits.
The well-known Metropolitan Hotel King'
street, Sydney, has lately changed hands. The
present landlord is Mr. Mark Solomons late of
Cootamundra who brings with him a high reputa-
tion.
“ Our readers ” will do well to call on
Messrs. Dahm and Co., jewellers, Sydney Arcade.
In addition to a magnificent display of watches
and jewellery of every description, they have on
view specimens of modernised old jewellery, in
the execution of which the firm stand above and
beyond all competition, if they have any.
There is on view at Mark Foy’s a splendid
satin toilet set, worked by Mrs. and Miss Smith,
of Strange’s Hotel, Watson’s Bay. It is intended
to be disposed of by lottery ; the proceeds to be
devoted to the Searle Memorial Fund. The
tickets are Is. each, and can be obtained from Mrs.
Smith at the above hotel. Beside helping a most
commendable object you may have the chance of
winning this really beautiful artistic set.
“Irons! What cared they for irons?”
writes the S.M. Herald’s special correspondent
in West Australia of the local old-time convicts.
“ I was told of one convict who could run up and
down a ladder like a squirrel with forty pounds
hanging to his legs.” This sounds all very well,
but there is another side to the picture. One of
the Hopeful’s crew, who called upon the present
writer in Sydney the other day, and who served
three years in irons at Brisbane, has been ruined
for life thereby. The effort of the fetters in his
case has been to produce on his legs a hideous
network of hopelessly varicose veins.
Miss Fowler (Sister Rose Gertrude) who
is bound for the leper-settlement to take the place
of Father Damien, expressed a wish to take a
piano out with her. An appeal was made in the
columns of the Pall Mall Gazette, and in re-
sponse Messrs. Broadwood and Sons forwarded
an upright-grand. In addition, some hundreds of
pounds came to hand from private subscriptions.
Amongst other letters was one from the Prince of
Wales :
Dear Sir,—l am desired by the Prince of Wales to ex-
press his hope that you may be successful in obtainingthe
means to enable you to procure Miss Fowler a and
other such things as she may require. . . . Yours
faithfully, Francis Knollys.
There was no cheque enclosed in this letter.
A labourer in the Royal Dockyards, earn-
ing only 16s. Bd. per week, on which he has to
support four children and a sick wife, is actually
receiving support and occasional coffins from the
Medway Board of Guardians. He is a useful
citizen, yet his honest toil does not entitle him to
receive even the necessities of life —and this while
Prince Edward of Saxe-Weimar, an obscm-e Ger-
man relation of the Queen, who has been loafing
for countless years on the British army-chest, is
on his retirement from “active service,” being
made a field-marshal in order that he may be able
until his last gasp to continue robbing the nation
of a monstrous sum annually.
We read that—“A new poet the other
day visited the office of the S.F. Newsletter.
He was dressed like a cow-boy, bad a sentimental
air, and inquired in a low, well-bred voice if this
paper ever published original poetry. We assured
him that there was always a market here for that
sort of work, aud that one of the leading missions
of this journal was to encourage struggling genius.
‘I don’t want any money,’ said the visitor, ‘but
in the course of an adventurous life I have written
much poetry. I have been long away from cities,
and this morning felt intensely lonely, so I wrote
the following, ’ and he handed in a modest-looking
MS. These are the verses :
‘ Booted and bearded and burnt to a brick, I loaf
along the street;
I watch the ladies tripping by and I bless their
dainty feet.
I watch them here and there with a bitter feeling
of pain;
Ah, what wouldn’t I give to feel a lady’s hand
again !
They used to be glad to see me once, they might
have been to-day.
But we never know the worth of a thing until we
have thrown it away.”’
This accomplished liar (for he must have been a
liar unless he happened to be Mowbray Morris,
the dramatic critic of the London Times, by whom
the foregoing lines were written) was trading off
on the Newsletter a hunk of an alleged poem by
Adam Lindsay Gordon, in whose works the lines
quoted appear, though Gordon, as above indi-
cated, did not write them at all.
Dear Bulletin, —Let me answer the
writer of “A Sundowner’s Grievance,” printed
in The Bulletin of 15th February last :
But tell me now the reason why the noble British race
Should be in plight so pitiable, should be in such disgrace,
Why strong and healthy workmen should be humping
bluey now,
And be waiting till it’s sundown to cadge tucker from the
Chow?
Why should he from the squatter go and beg a “ pint of
dust ?”
Why should he to the Chinaman go begging for a crust ?
Let whitemen give attention and listen to me now,
And they’ll never have occasion to beg tucker from a
Chow,
When next you're in a billet and you've got a steady place,
Remember then, howe’er you toil, to work is no disgrace,
And work with ealm contentment, for you can’t do better
now
Than take a careful lesson from the patient, toiling Chow.
And when your job is finished and the cheque you’ve got
in hand,
You can put in execution any scheme that you have
planned ;
Your fate is on a pivot, the turning-point is now—
Take oare, or in a short time you’ll be cadging from a
Chow.
There's one phrase in our language that’s the cause of all
our woe,
As many a weeping mother and her starving children
know,'
A little phrase on every tongue, but which I’ll take a vow
Is the cause of sending whitemen cadging tucker from a
Chow.
The curse of civilisation and the cause of want, I think,
The ruin of, the workman is “ What are you going to
drink ?”
Let that phrase from your memory be wiped for ever now,
And there’s not the slightest danger of your cadging from
a Chow.
Townsville.
A.H.


Old-fashioned Jewellery modernised to perfection. De-
signs free. Dau.ms and Co., King-street Arcade.
COUNTRY STOREKEEPERS, ETC.
Should write or call upon
A. M. MARKS & CO.,
—lmporters of—
Furniture, Pianofortes, Class, Earthenware,
CHINA, FANCY GOODS, ELECTRO-PLATE,
CIGARS A TOBACCONISTS SUNDRIES
SOLE AGENTS FOR
Dawn Cigars and Salonica Turkish Cigarettes.
Special Novelties in all Lines for Christmas Trade.
Prices on Application to—
A.. 3VE. Marks Sz Co.,
Vickery’s Buildings, 74a Pitt Streeet, Sydney,
AND AT LONDON.
Telephone, No. 919.
ĝhjgh
ci
rrt
/Uents .
DELISSAk PHILLIPS
3&*5 Barrack Street.
Government Advertisements.
T
Department of Public Works,
Sydney, March 11, 1890.
ENDERS FOR PUBLIC WORKS AN!
SUPPLIES.
For Conditions, see Government Gazette.
Nature of Works and Supplies.
| Dates to wind
'Ponders
can be receivec
| at this oliice.
Additions, Wileannia Gaol
Erection of Police Quarters, Wel-
lington
Repairs Court House, Coonamble
Additif ns Police Station, New-
castle
Repairs to Byron Bay Jetty
Supp'y, &c., of two-ton Crane for
Cahill’s Wharf, Bellinger River
Stables, Victoria Barracks
Construction of a Landing Stage
at Menindie, and supply, &c., ofi
a 2-ton Derrick Crane thereon |
Construction, &c., of an Air andj
Circulating Pump Engine, and a
Surface Condenser for the Hy-j
draulie Cranes, Newcastle
Construction of Wharf at North
Codrington, Richmond River
Additions, Post and Telegraph
Office, Emmaville
Bridge, Uralla Creek* at Uralla i
Supply of Turret Clock, Post
Office, Redfern (fresh tenders)
Supply of Turret Clock, Post
Office, Tenterfield (fresh tenders)
Supply of Turret Clock, Post
Office, Ballina (fresh tenders) )
Supply of Turret Clock, Post
Office, Kempsey (fresh tenders) |
Battery, Shepherd’s Hill, New-
castle
Caretaker’s Quarters, George V
Head, Sydney
Caretaker’s Quarters, Shepherd’s
Hill, Newcastle
Caretaker’s Quarters, Signal Hill, |
Wollongong j
Erection of Post and Telegraph!
Office, Cundletown
Covering Roof, &c., Police Build-]
ings, Albury (fresh tenders)
Additions, Hillston Gaol (fresh]
tenders)
Repairs, Courthouse, Howlong
Additions, Cobar Gaol (fresh
tenders)
Erection of Police Buildings,
Menindie (fresh tenders)
Erection of Police Buildings.
Ccrowa
Wollongong Courthouse, Wall,
Railings. Ac.
Erection of Police Buildings, Deep-
water (fresh tenders)
Engineer’s Cottage, Spit Ferry,
Middle Harbour
Additions, &c., Police Buildings,
Narrabii
Wood Paving, Cook’s River-road |
Iron Bridge, Lachlan River at;
Forbes, Contracts No. 1 and
No. 2
Bridge, Shoalhaven River, at
Warri
Additions, Public Works Offices
Erection Post and Telegraph Office,
Granville
Store Building, Chowder Bay,
Sydney
Drill Shed, Victoria Barracks,
Sydney (fresh tenders)
Fencing, Wall, &c., Industrial
School for Girls, Parramatta
Additions, &c., Courthouse
Broken-hi 11
Erection of Lock-up, Bombala
Retaining Wall, University Cut-]
tings, Contracts No. 1 and No. 2
Erection of Post and Telegraph
Office, Silverton
Installation of Electric Light,
Bullock Island, Newcastle
Wednesday,
March 19,
at 11 o’clock.
Wednesday,
2nd April,
at 11 o’clock.
Wednesday,
| April 10,
at 11 o’clock.
Wednesday,
May 14,
at 11 o’clock.
BRUCE SMITH.
Ask fmv the
Unequalled
“DAWN”
3d. CIGAR,
Of all
Tobacco nista,
I -H n*»• '■
t3E*
Store
AND
Hotel
KEEPERS.
Wholesale Agents; A. M. MARKS & Co., 1 4a JPITT STREET,
SYDNEY.
QA w so
DAW SOU’S
Sole Agents for Australasia
VAUGHAN, ROGERS & CO.,
(Opposite 0.U.0.)
108 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
p
E
R
F
E
C
T
1
O
N
WHISKY.
SUB-AGENTS WANTED
IN TUB
PRINCIPAL CENTRES
THROUGHOUT AUSTRALASIA.
T ILL IN THE LEAD
The great remedy for pain, St. Jacobs Oil, is a
wonder surely. But it is the result; only of true
medical science and research. Such a discovery
had a right to prominence. It has cured wherever
used as directed. Founded upon the intrinsic
merit of each element which, in combination,
proved to be the perfection of cure, its virtue has
made it what it is.
THE PEOPLE
of the United States know its name, and name it
as a remedy which should be in every house, for
every home knows its value. As a sterling com-
forter, the truest relief
THE WORLD OWNS IT.
Canada took it up and adopted it as a standard
cure. It crossed the ocean, on demand, and alike
in Scotland, England, and Ireland, in the extremes
of climate and 'temperature, it is the same
sovereign Conqueror of Pain. Distinquished men
and physicians of South and Central America
have used and recommended it, and street-criers
have sung its praise in verse in the streets of
Mexico. A member of Parliament
IN SOUTH AFRICA
praised it in open debate, and the same was done
by a U.S. senator. In India it won its first gold
medal at the Calcutta Exposition, where expert
chemists and physicians awarded it its due; and
by merit it has won in all similar competitions.
One of the most distinguished scholars of Ger-
many thought it his duty to praise it, and such
lias been its meed from Prelates, Potentates, and
tin* Press. A distinguished traveller comments on
its use in Egypt. It was the comforter and cure
of tlie lost half-frozen Arctic explorers of the
Greely expedition.
BRITISH SOLDIERS AND SAILORS.
It found its place in the knapsacks of the
British soldiers in the Soudan, and its permanent
supply to the medicine-chests of Her Majesty’s
warships.
This would seem enough to show what it is
doing, but one other potent fact can’t be disre-
garded. It holds its own as the best known
remedy of the age for rheumatism, neuralgia, lum-
bago, sciatica, and all painful ailments. It has
taken its place in the trade of the continent, and
has received from nearly all its patrons in the
States and elsewhere statements that the cures
made by its healing virtues, from the date of cure
to the date of response, embracing a lapse of years,
remain permanent without recurrence.
Sold by all chemists and dealers in medicine.
Wholesale Depot for N.S.W., Messrs. Elliott
Bros., Ltd., Sydney.
E W S FROM FIJI.
Lkvuka, 19th Nov., 1889.
Gentlemen, —“ Desiring to express my admira-
tion of the Waterbury Watch, I place on record
the following facts in connection therewith that I
am personally acquainted with —viz., that for the
last two years I have constantly carried a Water-
bury, and have always found it to keep excellent
time. I have made a point of often comparing it
with a £2 12s. Waltham and a ship’s chronometer
kept by the harbour-master, and have very rarely
found it to differ in reading from either. I can
also state for a fact that Waterburys are worn in
preference to others by several of the most pro-
minent business men of this town.” — L. Johnston.
P.S. —I also time the Bank of N. Z. clock with
it.
AUSTRALIANS TESTIFY.
MR. CHAS. HILL, Cattle Creek, writing to
the Waterbury Watch Co., under date January
20th, ’9O, says : —“ I have had two of your ‘E ’
series watches kept constantly going for over two
years, and they have both given me entire satis-
faction.”
MR. A. M. FLETCHER, Bear Hill, sth Nov,
’B9, writes:—“The Waterbury is everything de-
sirable—a first-class timekeeper.”
MR. G. AMBROSE, Goree Station, Narran-
dera, November 4th, ’B9, writes: —“I am well
pleased with my Waterbury Watch. It certainly
keeps excellent time.”
The faithful and trustworthy WATERBURY
may be obtained from any respectable dealer
throughout the colony. Price —Series E, 13s. (>d.;
Series J or L, 20s. Insist upon having the
WATERBURY, and don’t be gulled into accept-
ing of any Swiss-made rattle-trap in place of it.
DR. SCOTT’S ELECTRIC CORSETS
AND BELTS
are universally approved by leading physicians as
the best, safest, and most effectual remedy for
Spinal Complaints, Incipient Consumption, Diar-
rhoea, Pleurisy, Tumors, Asthma, Bronchitis,
Epilepsy, Lumbago, Debility, Dropsy, Paralysis,
Loss of Voice, Hysteria, Cutaneous Diseases,
Nervousness, Backaches, Indigestion, Palpitation,
etc., and have cured some of the most obstinate
and distressing cases after all remedies (so called)
have failed. Illustrated Circular and Price List
of Dr. Scott’s Genuine Electric Appliances sent
free to any address on application.
©
Is made with the utmost care from materia
selected with the
GREATEST REIiARI* FOR VERITY,
And for the soothing and beneficial effect which
they impart to the skin and the complexion.
Gold Mledal, Paris, 1089
“ Unexcelled in Quality and Perfume.”
Pall Mall Electric Association,
56 Margaret Street, Sydney.
P.O. Box 221.
[Please mention this paper,]
CORRESPONDENCE
“C.C.”; Somewhat crude “ J. Macß.” ; May
(H 0.... “O. Davis ” : Thanks.... “ IT.M.” (Balmain) :We
arc informed by our Yankee-grab editor that “fifteen’
wins. The spread of education lias taught even the d.ce-
thrower that three “ ones ” have no more claim to scoop
the pool than tluee “ tw05.”.... “David Kellock ”;V> e
believe in peaceful rcvoiufcns like that of Brazil; the
trades-unionists can achieve the balance of power by join
ing the various volunteer companies, thus leavening the
lump, and preventing V.C. weapons from being turned
against them....“ Arthur Rae”; Thanks. The border-
line of the United States of Australia should be theocean*
The Bulletin has no desire to see the EiigiUh-Irish squab
bles perpetuated in the Southern Hemisphere ~ “The
Defective Force”: Now, tell us—aren’t you using the
names of real living personages ? “G. A. G.” :
Must defer remark until announcement of result....
“E. Emerson ”; Extremely well written, bat with a
hackneyed ending. You should get a decent plot and
work it up “ C.J.H.”: Have forwarded your letter to
Mr. Hewlett.J. E. Thompson ” : Sydney D.T. only
uses the Single-tax party to try and split the Protec-
tionists. Up to date they have succeeded in splitting the
Freetraders. They are very careful not to say they swallow
the Single-tax ..“ J. 8.” (Wooliahra): We sympathise with
you. We have had ’em ourselves.... “ H.C.S.” : Not bad,
but you are full of scarcely-digested Byron isms.... “E.
J. Hilder ” ; Lamartine’s “ Girondists,” Taine’s, Thiers’,
Macintosh's, Carlyle’s, Besant’s “ French Revolution”....
“ Whisker” ; Unequal, very. Though your whistle makes
the brutes weep, why wring tears from us by the prod
use of your pen ?,...“ W.M.8.” ; Letters forwarded....
“A.W.J.”: And yet the Brisbane working-man’s daily
paper comes out of a “ rat ” office ! Shame !....“ P.J.R.”:
Your kindly words resemble those of many letters daily
received. Shall read clipping. Send us something
original and pithy.. . “H.W.T.”: Too lengthy
“ Moses ”: Your verse is constructed on the similia
s.'unitihus curantvr principle. Paikes is a bad poet, but
he can’t be cured by another fellow’s bad poetry.. .
“ E.0.M.”: We do so admire the man who wants himself
called “ Esquire.” “Briekan”: Phonetic humour has
been played out by Artemus Ward and Josh Billings, a
pair of unapproachable humourists. Bad wit isn’t im-
proved by bad spelling “W.S.G.”: Thanks Kai
Loma ”; Magisterial story was old when told by a gaol-
warder to Cain when the latter was in ohokee for murder-
ing Abellnquire ” : We put iu our little pound,
anyhow....“ J. Forsyth” (Ballarat); Have written the
advertisers and will mail you their reply “0.W.J.”:
Your verses are very powerful, but lack finish and con-
tinuity of idea. You are a man of brains ; you will try
again, and in the long run you will succeed “A. C.
Barker” : You might as well ask us why the editors of
the daily papers allow correspondents to write long yams
in their own journals about “ their excellent paper.”
“J.W.” (Qundaroo) ; “Is Tennyson a total abstainer?”
No, of course, Tennyson is not a total abstainer. Tenny-
son is a poet, and poetry and teetotalism are deadly
enemies. The strongest verses against drunkenness in the
English language, bar none, were written by a man who
was anything but a teetotaller. Which his name
was Henry Kendall “ A.H.C.” : May use
“A. J. Oppenheim”; The Claimant having been con-
victed of felony would, we presume, not be permitted to
take a seat in the Commons.. “L. A.E.”: Itisnotfair. How
if you reverse the conditions, putting the clergyman be-
hind the spikes and the criminal in the pulpit?....
“ Manaro Shepherd ” : (1.) Your Umeratla poet is simply
an unvarnished and unadorned idiot. (2.) No ; “David ’’
is the man who measures out his rum by hand-breadths. .
“ A Land Nationalise!-”: The Bulletin' does not in any
way blame Henry George for charging admission to big
present series of discourses, as that seems the only avail-
able means of keeping the mill going. You can get a
verbatim report of what he said for a penny in one of the
daily papers.... “ W.K.” ;To hand.... “ J.J.” : Thanks...
“ E.0.M.”: The assassination of Marat by Charlotte
Corday was, on the contrary, one of tlie greatest events
of the world’s historj The killing of Marat in his bath
went tcT prove that it was possible for a man to be a
Radical and yet wash himself. More than half the world
didn’t believe this till the French Revolution “ S.E.” :
Almost the only commodity that is falling iu price in N.S.W.
is man’s labour ..“ A.M.S.”: Now, do you think we really
want anything of that kind?.... “ W.C.P.”: Not in our
vein ; try elsewhere ...“Trenton”: But then no really
high-class printing-paper is made in Australia. Bismarck
lately made a consignment of paper for The Bulletin at
his mills in Yarmany.Willis Hall”: Will read, but
we can hardly accept the papers without seeing them all.
It would be like buying a novel after reading the first
chapter.J.D.M.”: Whyte Melville was killed in the
hunting-field “ F.E.”: We are tired of the weeklies
that steal American stories and, altering terms and names,
trade them off as original and Australian “ Bairns-
dale”: “What do we think of the London Daily
Graphic”: Well, we think it is a frost, and lias death
written all over its smudgy little face “ M.R.S.’A.” ;
“ Warrigal ” means a wild native. It is also held to
mean a native-dog. Sorry wo can’t be more exact, as we
have not at hand our myall Webster’s Unabridged. ..
“G.H.” : Don’t waste your time in writing to “Mickey,”
who probably never reads your letters .. “ Mentor ”; We
don’t remember it, but will inquire... “ R.T.8.” (Wind-
sor): It may be true, but as we never see the paper we
can’t say. Geniuses often jump together “T.E.K.”;
We believe k. to be quite square. You could nominate a
Sydney friend to see it drawn —or go yourself. .■..** E.W.”:
We hav* hoard from time to time of several matrimonial
bureaux, but can’t tell you any address. These people,
also the baby-minders, generally advertise with Alfred
Bennett.. “ J.E.D.” (Geringong): Will read and consider..
“ Thomas Ryan ” : We meant N S.W., but we now believe
that Henry George will do infinite harm to the so-called
Freetraders, for he will show that there can’t lie any real
Freetrade without the utter abolition of ail taxes, save
those on land. In other words, he will show that Parkes
and Co., who have hitherto waved the “Freetrade”
banner, are political impostors who haven’t the courage
to follow their doctrine to the end “ W.A.” : Not yet
read.... “Jubilee”: It was not Henry George, but some
ill-advised disciples of his who applied the hammeriock-
cloture to Socialist Yewen at the meeting. You should
never ask hostile questions at a meeting unless you happen
to be Peter Jackson surrounded by his friends.
Signapore is very little better of tli<* rheumatism
tliat doubled him up last spring.
Only ono Victorian-bred horse —Ilex —ran in the
Australian Cup, and not one in the Champion.
Henry George was unfortunate in running
against such a formidable rival as sculler O’Connor in the
race for rustic favour.
When a man, who gets the blue ball in a game
of Pool, takes a life from the player he follows —why
does that man resemble a lady who gets her dresses from
Worth, of Paris? Give it up? Because he’s a Brown-
putter. Ha !ha! ha 1 Isn’t it sublimely idiotic, now ?
The following are the Australian representatives
Tim Bulletin would like to ask to meet the crack English
counties, then the Universities, folk ved by the Gentle-
men, the Players, the North and South, and finish up
with an All England eleven, our little bit of “ stuff ”
being up on each event:—Blackham, Jones, Moses, Lyons,
,1. W. Trumble, M’Leod, Bruce, Giffen, Turner, Trott, and
Bannennan. Great Scott! What price such a team ?
When Mr. James White supplies the only two
starters for a race the public do get something of a finish
for their money. But when First Boolka was sent to pick
up ,8' cond money in the Special Juvenile Stakes last
Thursday, it appea"ed that the jockey on Mr. Miller’s colt
had instructions to pull up directly Titan caught him.
Several bookmakers, thinking there was to be a struggle
home through the mud, took seven to one that the two-
year-old would be done, and grumbled considerably when
First Boolka stopped.
The one fact sticking out of the Champion race
was that Dreadnaught has not yet developed into a stayer
of the first rank. The weight for age scale, which is
“ made for” three-year-olds so late in the season, was more
than ever in his favour over a course where every ounce
told. Dreadnaught is no great sticker at present. Hales
had to ride the horse home for all he was worth in the
Australian Cup, although a number of alleged critics
who hadn’t nerve enough to let them take in the details
of a finish—wrote twaddle to the effect that Melos near!} 7
caught the Derby winner “ before he could be set going
again.” Dreadnaught never left off going for the last
half-mile as fast as Hales’ hands could make him. He
would probably have swerved under the whip and let
Melos get quite up.
That Carbine ought to have won his second
Champion is no certainty, but very near it. At a critical
moment O’Brien pullad the noble beast across to the in-
side rails, and seemed to get stuck in the mud consider-
ably deeper than either of his opponents. Winning was
out of the question then, but had Carbine kept outside
or even between Melos and Dreadnought all the time, we
fancy Mr. Gannon might have whistled for the stake.
Carbine’s performance last Saturday w hen he cantered in
for the same two races that fell to him last last year, is
just about unique in the annals of racing. Abereorn was
a great horse if quite well, but for consistent excellence
Mr. White’s chestnut must give place to Musket’s best
son. And he’s such an unassuming quadruped. You
never see Carbine gavotting around the paddock or play-
ing up at the post. No frill about these real tiptoppers,
as a rule. Carbine gives O’Brien one look before he
mounts, a look that means : “ Just knock when you want
to come inland I’ll endeavour to get there.” What a
rare old son of a gun it is !
:
“Our New Horse,” a stirring sporting
ballad by “ The Banjo,” will appear in next week’s
Bulletin.
A Chinese doctor has been interviewed
by the Adelaide press. This does not mean that
the Chows are rising in the social scale, but that
the Adelaide press is getting meaner than ever.
The tritish public on the whole is very
sore over Mark Twain’s latest. Even the half-
penny Echo declares that he has “made an ex-
hibition of himself, ’ and “furnished another pain-
ful illustration that h reverence —the caricature of
what other people hold sacred —is one of the prime
elements in what is commonly known as Yankee
humour. Most of Mark Twain’s fun is wholly
out of place—therefore vulgar and repellant.”
Dew tell!
G. H. Reid, the revenue-tariffist and
great “Freetrade” orator, has completely shut up
during the last few months, and we don’t notice
Mr. B. H. Wise (or any other Foreign-trade light)
standing on the Georgian platform. Reid went to
a Georgian meeting the other night, took a seat
amongst the audience, and began to applaud
vigorously. “ Yah !” shouted a man behind him,
“ You’re not game to vote for the Single-tax, all
the same.” From that time out G. H. Reid,
Esq., made no more floor-music with his umbrelßt.
According to Sydney Morning Herald,
B. R. Wise received a patient, in fact, enthusiastic
hearing, at Redfern Town Hall, lately, while the
Sydney Daily Telegraph, of the same date,
bemoans the “ senseless interruptions of a number
of Protectionists whose hideous disturbances
could only be quietened by police-interference.”
Either one paper is suppressing facts, or the other
one is lying. How sad that mere professional
jealousy should prevent the Freetrade organs
from perjuring themselves in harmony !
Napoleon the Little lost his life through
political motives. A second coup d'etat for the
restoration of the Empire was planned, says Pro-
fessor Orcken. MacMahon had been gained for
the plot, and the German Government had no
objections. It was needful that the ex-Emperor
should take personal part in the act, and in order
to do so he would have to show himself in Paris on
horseback. With the view of fitting himself for
this theatrical performance he consented to be
lithotomised; and the result was a tombstone.
Rest instead of restoration.


Business Announcements.
PRIDDY & CO.,
Hats made to Order-
MANUFACTURER'S
MercerV-
Morley’s Hosiery.
438 Scorge Street, Sydney.
Branch - 078 George Street, Brickfield Hill,
PROBLEM OK TO-DAY-WHERE CAN WE GET GOOD
BOOTS?—SOLVED AT LAST.
lE I. JE* 13 m C JE3C
(The French of years ago)
Can supply Residents here with Boots better made than
ever. Boots that must wear well and give satisfaction.
Send your orders then to 82 Oxford Sthkbt, and be sure
to enclose Sizes and Remittance, when your parcel will be
sent at once by Post, Rail, or Steamer.
Notice Prices for Boots that look well, wear well
and fit well.
Children’s Elastic-sides, 2/-, 2/11, 3/6, 4/-, 4/6, eic \ Best
Men’s & Youths’ ditto, 5/6, 6/-, 6/6, 7/6, 8/6, etc. / Bools
Men’s & Boys’ Bluchers, 2/11, 4/-, 5/-, 6/-, best ever made.
A Line of Stylish Laced Boots for Best Wear
(Boys’, Youths’ and Men’s Sizes).
ENGLISH BOOTS for LADIES, CHILDREN, etc ,
Sent as ordered. Lowest Price.
Satisfaction given or Money Returned.
Xo/e the Address:
ECLIPSE BOOT CO.,
82 Oxford SI foot, SYDNEY.
E. French, Manager.
j7~ludo 'wT'cr“^"'so¥s 1
Manufacturers and Importers of
Superior Oak-Taimed Leather Celtic g,
And every description of
Leather goods for Machine and Engineering Purposes
Hydraulic
Leathers.
ghjh
Tangye Pump
Leather?.
All goods bearing the above Trade Mark are warranted to
give satisfaction, or may be returned at our expense.
Office and Factory: 163 Clarence-St., Sydney,
Between King and Market Streets.
TO ADVERTISERS.
We undertake the advertising of large business
houses —filing every paper advertised in, checking
appearances, and watching the interests of our
clients. We can save you money, lime and
siixicly. Wiite for our pamphlet “How to
Advertise, and Why.” F. T. WIMBLE & CO.,
Newspaper Advertising Bureau, Basement A.J.S.
Bank, 369,371 & 373 George-st.,Sydney. Estimates
given for any number of papers by return mail.
AUSTRALIAN
•Roller Flour and Grain Store*,
GRANVILLE, N.S.W.
Sydney Office; - 373 CLARENCE STREET
(near King Street).
Brunton’s Patent Roller Flour
AWARDED —
The Highest Order ci Merit et every Competition,
AND
Special Recommendation” of the -furors of the
■>peci;
Melbourne International Centennial Exhibition,
isss-su.
m
I V, r-V
A
ft:
I
m
p
i
THE TREE. OF LIFE .
The only pure Encalypte in the World.
AW ARDED Gold Medal Adelaide Jubilee
. Exhibition. First Prize Great Centennial
Exhibition, Sydney. The only known CURE for
Asthma, Bronchitis, Consumption, Pleurisy,
Colds, Coughs, and all affections of the Chest and
Lungs; also, for Gout, Rheumatism, Sciatica,
etc. Our VICTORY OINTMENT stands with-
out a rival for Bad Legs, Bad Breasts, Cancers,
Tumours, and skin diseases of all kinds. Also,
manufacturers of the Eucalypte Pills, Encalypte
Hair Restorer, Encalypte Soap, and our world-
famed Encalypte Honey is the best preparation
before the public for young Children and aged
people. Also, makers of the Eucalypte Lozenges
for the Voice. Manufactory— Cootamundra.
Sydney Wholesale Depot—2sl Elizabeth Street
Posted to any part of the Colonies. Sold Every-
where. Beware of Imitations.
Eucalypte. OILSa.
Victory Ointments
jt.. i. ■ ■
Hotel, £ycmey.
■■ -v: ■ ■ m
, . ' ; ’ : - ’; \ ; -
ti«jlfriiiri» E"* A '*’ -■ '■
«■ ■
, -
♦if
H.J
, I ' ~ ' ■ ■ ’
■ :- •■ ■ --- W <-■■• - •■■■•* L_’_; ~.V
Adjoining the Sydney Exchange.
Mining, Financial and General Mercantile Intelligence
Posted several times DAILY in the Building'.
TELEGRAPH, POST and MONEY ORDER OFFICES on the PREMISES.
This Hotel has been thoroughly renovated and re-furnished, and is now unrivalled for comfort
nd attention.
Aarons’ Exchange Eotcl Co. (Limited), Proprietors.
TO HAIRDRESSERS.
IF you want any requisite in connection with the trade send to CRAIG <sc AITKEN,
who are in the trade themselves and know what is required. Drop us a line 01 give us a call, and
we will fix you up as regards price. They have in stock :
Hairdressing Chairs (American and Colcnialf, Shampooing Basins, Taps and Apparatus
Hot Water Urns, Mirrors, Barbers’ Poles, Aprons, Cutting Clothes, Hackels, Pressing’
Crimping and other Irons, etc., etc.— in fact, everything you want.
Just Arrived. —A Large Shipment of all sizes BROWN & SHARPE’S HAIRCLIPPERS.
Every Brand of RAZORS and SCISSORS kept.
We engage Competent Assistants for any part of the Australian colonies, and guarantee they will
be First-Class Workmen, as we thoroughly test them in our own saloon before sending them.
Send for Price List to their Only Address
680 & 682 George Street, Brickfield Hill, Sydney.
j
a
'*V>3l'
v *'"
6&X
32
f-0»D
*3
//
Hill I
ELECTRIC PHOTO-ENC. CO-. 8 OBIDCE-ST„ SYONF.V.
Tlio Oxford Hotel, King Street, Sydney
■ •• Proprietor.
H. THORPE
JONES’ SEWING MACHINES
FOR THE BOOT AND TAILORING TRADES.
The Best Manufacturing Machines in Existence*
Now Perfected, the New No. 3 and No. 4 Machines on an Entirely new System
stock:
Farlei&li,
TANNERS
16 x YORK
ALSO
IM I*ol
JUST Ti .A. UST ID 11ST GK
nxr ettheim, &
AND LEATHER MERCHANTS,
x STREET, x SYDNEY.
Solo Agents for tlio above for Now South Wales and Queensland
(*)
c 0.,
Importers of Requisites for the ROOT MANUFACTURING TRADE in all Details, including IHAr-nmirov
{TED LEATHERS, &c. ; and of the following Spbcial Disks : iVorlcss «;*«*, s-ilin
RliH-kiiiK. Tanners’ Tools and Mateiials. tsT Indent* E.\ tuned on Fa von • aid* ’4 Vh s ’
Medical.
DR. RICHARDS.
rooms
"JrliKiWSf
a
This eminent Specialist, Founder, and Chief
Surgeon of the long-established and favourably-
known Dispensary that now bears his name, re-
ceived his medical education in the leading colleges
and hospitals of Europe. He has devoted a life-
time to the study of
PRIVATE, NERVOUS, AND SKIN
DISEASES.
He has by profound research t horoughly investi-
gated their origin, traced their deadly sources and
insidious dissemination, and ascertained the surest
and safest methods by which they may be eradi-
cated, with these widely recognised qualifications
combined with unswerving faithfulness to his
patients, he has during his practice, extending
over FORTY YEARS, attained a well-deserved
pre-eminence in their treatment. His practice
embraces diseases which probably cause more un-
happiness than any other class of troubles that
afflict mankind.
YOUNG MEN
who suffer from the results of early follies, trans-
gressions or excesses of more nature age, bladder
difficulties, a whitish or dark ropy sediment in
the water, accompanied by slight burning or
smarting sensation, Headaches, Drowsiness during
the day, circles round the eyes. Giddiness,
irregularity of the bowels, specks before the eyes,
bashfulnoes, discontentedness, weakness or pains
in the back, Liver or kidney complaints, dreams,
buzzing noises in the ears and head, pimples, a
fear that something dreadful is about to happen,
weak stomach, yellow or blood-shot eyes, impure
blood, hasty, uncontrollable temper, hacking
cough, who cannot marry, nervousness in society,
wakefulness, palpitation of the heart, general
weakness, and other symptoms which lead to in-
sanity and death, should consult him, for he has
mastered these difficulties. On receipt of 6d. in
stamps he will send secure from observation in a
plain wrapper, postage
FREE, A LARGE CLOTH-BOUND
BOOK.
Showing plainly how all diseases of the private or
nervous system may be cured thoroughly and per-
manently without unnecessary expence. This
book will prove a valuable companion, and even
though you be perfectly well its general inform-
lion and prescription may assist you in restoring
some poor friend to health even after his case has
been pronounced incurable by his medical at-
tendant.
ONE POUND IS SUFFICIENT TO
SEND
for Remedies necessary for the cure of NER-
VOUS DEBILITY. Should you require medical
treatment, as procrastination is sometimes dan-
gerous, it would be advisable for you to sit down
quietly in your chamber and write to the doctor,
detailing every experienced symptom. He will
on receipt of such a letter, write you, promptly
and courteously, a candid and straightforward
oponion of your case. If you do not think you
understand the case,, send for his famous medical
work, the price of which is but sixpence ; enclosed
in the volume will be found a list of carefully-pre-
pared questions, which will, in all probability,
assist you materially in describing your ailment.
Dr. Richards uses nothing but the purest remedies,
and never prescribes mercury under any circum-
stances. The moment letters are carefully per-
used and answered they are destroyed by Are,
and patients may rest assured that their cases
will remain a secret between the doctor and
themselves. Dr. Richards has successfully treated
nearly 25,000 cases since coming to Australia, and
has permission from at least 10,000 persons to
show their written evidence of his success. All
communications should be addressed
Dr. RICHARDS,
7 Spring Street
(Off Pitt Street North)
S Y D N~ E T.
Be sure to mention this paper when writing
CONSIJLTAT lON FREE.
DAILY NEWSPAPER PORT RATS.
Portrait of E. H. Taylor;
also of Willoughby Andrew.
Portrait of Cardinal Moran;
also of Henry George.
Portrait of W. E. Gladstoae;
also of John Haynes,


Medical.
jismsirs diitiieit.
By Royal Letters Patent.
The Most Useful Ointment in the World,
Bar None.
PREMIER OINTMENT is the SOUTHERN
HEMISPHERE. But. as many new arrivals
have lately made New South .Wales their home, it
may be as well to let them know that there is such
an rtiole as JOSEPHSON ’S OIN TMEN T purely
the producti on of the colony, com posed of wild plants
indigenous to the country and nowhere else, the
principal of which is the EUCALYPTUS, now
so famed thoroughout the world.
Josephson’s Ointment is purely vegetable, and
CiCAKANT 10 E D E REE FROM A 1. L P OISONOUS
Qualities. No Artificial Colouring, as the
Green colour is extracted from the pure green
plants, which defy imitation.
WHO SHOULD SUFFER FROM PILES,
when one application will relieve you?
Read this letter and Try for Yourselves
Messrs. E. Row and Co.
Dear Sirs,—l have tried your Jo-ephson’s Oint-
ment for Piles, and have found much relief from
using it. You are at liberty to use this if you feel
disposed.
I remain, yours, etc.,
L. P. SOLOMONS, Herald Office.
STUDY HEALTH BY TAKING ROW’S
STEANE’S BITTERS.
The great demand throughout the colony for
these pure Bitters shows they are superior to all
others and equalled by none.
Facts Steak Louder than Words.
Read this sworn testimony from a well-known
citizen :
Statutory Declaration.
“I, George Hewett, do hereby solemly and
sincerely declare as follows : —■
“ That I feel it a duty I owe to the public to
state that I have been suffering for many years
from weakness of the stomach, so called INDI-
GESTION or DYSPEPSIA, and have been cured
by my taking two or three glasses of ROW’S
STEANE’S BITTERS a day in a little water, and
I hope others suffering from the same complaint
will be as speedily cured.
“ (Signed) G. HEWETT,
“ 215 Pitt-street.
Row’s Bteane’s Wine
Is a safe and sure stimulant for the female sex or
children, for it raises and strengthens depressed
systems without producing a temporary excite-
ment to be followed by greater depression.
Persons suffering from loss of appetite and
general depression of spirits cannot do better than
take
ROW’S STEANE’S WINE.
It cannot harm you, but must do good to all
delicate persons. Young Ladies can take this
when suffering from general debility. It’s only a
pure tonic. Try it.
Teetotallers will find this newly-invented
TONIC answer all the purposes of a stimulant
without its intoxicating quality. It will satisfy
the cravings of nature and create a desire for food
instead of drink. As an anti-febrile is unsur-
passed.
ROW’S
DANDELION
BITTERS.
We recommed these BITTERS to be taken
two or three times a day ; a wineglassful for an
ttdult, smaller quantity for children.
For General Debility, Dyspepsia, Rheumatism,
and Cutaneous Affections.
The action of dandelion, more especially upon
the liver and kidneys, in more reliable for remov-
ing all impure secretions than any other medicinal
plant known.
Persons suffering from Skin diseases will find
these Bitters invaluable.
DIRECTIONS FOR USE.
One wineglass two or three times a day after
meals diluted with same quantity of water. For
young people about half the quantity twice a day.
They Purify the Blood and Liver.
See what a Medical Gentleman says
about them.
Messrs. E. Row and Co.
With thanks for forwarding me a bottle of your
Row’s Dandelion Bitters, and consider them most
excellent, and superior to many others that I have
previously tried. Yours faithfully, HENRY
CHARLES CURTIS, M.R.C.S., England.
Port Adelade, October 30, 188 G.
Read an expression of thankfulness receive !
from the undersigned :
“I have for many years been obliged to take
medicines of different kinds for affections of tire
liver, indigestion, pain in the chest, general de-
bility, feeling of nervousness, weariness, great
depression of spirits, and so on, but all without
producing any beneficial effect, till at last, being
recommended to try ROW’S DANDELION
BITTERS, which, happily, I find has produced
an unexpected and wonderful effect and change
in my system, and has removed from my mind
the horrible depressed feeling and former con-
dition of bodily ailment I have so unhappily ex
perienced for so many years.
“ I am glad of the opportunity to make known
the excellent qualities of ROW’S DANDELION
BITTERS, that those who are affleted as I have
been may take advantage of them.
“ I remain, dear sirs,
“Respectfully yours,
“ MARY TERRILL,
“Carlisle Cottage, Leichhardt.
“Messrs. Ed. Row and Company, Sydney.”
UK
Hotel-keepers all keep Row’s Assorted Bitters
CONTAINING
ROW’S STEANE’S RITTERS.
ROW’S YOU’LL DO RITTERS.
ROW’S QUININE BITTERS.
ROW’S ORIENTAL RITTERS.
ROW’S DANDELION RITTERS.
RARON BERZELIUS RUCIIU RITTERS.
ROW'S ASSORTED WINES.
SOI.K I’IiOI’IUKTOIiS,
EDWARD ROW A CO.,
13. 15. 47 UKORUK STREET, SYDNEY
Business Announcements.
H. B. Leacli,
SUCOESSbII TO
GB. MODINI, Gunma’.ier, informs his Customers
■ and the Public in general that he h>s the largest
assortment of Firearms in the colony. Qualities and prices
to defy competition. Guns by tue following celebrated
gunmakers-J. Pitudey & Sons, On. Boswell, John H iobv
and Co., Joseph Lang & Sons, On. Osbornb & Co., Thomas
Bland <Sc Son. A large assortm ntof various other makers
always on hand, viz., W. W. Greener, Scott, VVkbley,
Hollis & Sons, Kilby and Casiimore. All goods will be
faithfully guaranteed at 602 George-street, Sydney.
Price list on application.
jg B WIN G. GOEIt T Z,
Stock ami Share Broker,
-A_G-IE IsT T 3
BUI3BANE.
Member of the Brisbane Stock Exchange,
Shipping.
TTNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF NEW
U ZEALAND, Limited.
SAN FRANCISCO ROYAL MAIL SERVICE.
OVERLAND ROUTE TO ENGLAND VIA SAN
FRANCISCO AND NEW YORK,
Calling at
AUCKLAND and HONOLULU,
Avoiding alike the heat of the Red Sea and the cold
of Cape Horn.
Under Contract with the Postmasters-General of New
Scuta Wales and New Zealand, the steamers of this line
are appointed to leave Sydney and Auckland for Honolulu
and San Francisco even four weeks, sailing as under;—
listen steamer carries a duly qualified surgeon.
These steamers are lilted with Electric Light and with a
Kef igerating Chamber for ship provisions, insu ring a
plentiful supply cf ice throughout the voyage.
Passengers are booked to San Francisco or through to
European destinations and have at San Francisco choice of
the unrivalled Atlantic Steamship Lines of the Canard,
Inman, White Star, and other companies.
All first-ciass passengers are allowed 3501 b. of baggage
to San Francisco and 2301 b. “ Overland ” free of charge.
THROUGH FARE TO LIVERPOOL.
FIRST-CLASS .. .. .. A 63 to £66.
Time-cards, railway maps, and gu de books, showing all
routes to any point in the United States, may be had on
application
For rates of passage and freight and all other informa
tion apply at the Company’s Offices, 15 Bridge-street.
FREDK. W. JACKSON, Manager.
Business Anrom cements.
B’eeleratecl Scxnattcrn
—AND—
Farmers’ Co-Operative Association of Australasia, Limited,
CIBCTJLAB Q,TJ.A_YY, SYDBET.
WOOL and PRODUCE BROKERS, STOCK and STATION AGENTS,
Advances Made and Deposits Received at Current Rates. Correspondence Invited.
ALLAN A. MARSHALL & GO.,
Engineers, Coppersmiths, Brass and BKi.i, Founders,
Finishers, numbers. Ship <fc General Smiths,
G ASKITTKRS, Art & Mkdi*valMBtal Workkr
KOLI.EK SKATES (any make) with KUASS or WOO»E\ WHEELS.
Verity’s Gas Fires, Heaters and Ventilators at greatly Reduced Prices —11,000 Fires already in use
Importers and Manufacturers of Diving Gear, Yacht and Boat Work of every description m
Iron or Brass, Ships’ Single and Double Action Valve Closets, Fire Hydrants, Hose and all appliances
Bon Accord, Works, 9 Macquarie Place, Sydney.
Gold Medal
Acknowledged
The Best
COMMERCIAL TRAVELLERS, TOURISTS, &c.
o
ROYAL HOTEL, LITHGOW,
The leading resort for
Commercial Travellers, and Tourists.
The Largest Sample Rooms on the Western Line. Horses and Buggies for Hire
Nothing hut the Best Brands of spirits sold over the bar.
Hugh Wallace, Proprietor, Late of Wallerawang.
OCHTNER & Cd
SYDNEY:
318 GEORGE STREET
BRISBANE
9 ELIZABETH STEEET
PHOTOGRAPHIC
—STOCK—
IMPORTERS.
WI
K.
i
\
4
ft
send FOR OUR NEW ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE 'M
—OF—
CAMERAS, LENSES, CHEMICALS, MAGIC LANTERNS,
And all Articles appertaining to PHOTOGRAPHY.
AMATEUR OUTFITS.
Shipping.
JJUDDART, PARKER and CO.’a LINE.
STEAM TO MELBOURNE AND
TASMANIA.
FROM HUDDART, PARKER’S WHARF ;
FOR MELBOURNE WHARF DIRECT—
BURRUMBEKT | 4000 tons | Saturday, March 15, noon.
ELINGAMITE | 4000 tons \ Tuesday, March 18, at 6 p.m.
FOR LAUNCESTON, VIA M liLßOUßNE—
transhipping to S.S. NEWCASTLE.
ELINGAMITE | 4000 tons | Tuesday, Aiaica is, 6 p.m.
These magnificent Steamships have already established
a reputation for their accommodation, and their large size
insures passengers a maximum of comfort. The SALOON
CABINS are light and airy and very roomy. FORE-
CABIN ison main deck, lofty and well ventilated. Com-
plete sanit iiion and lavatorus. ELECTRIC LIGHTING
throughout the ships. Inspection invited on days of
sailing.
RETURN TICKETS AVAILABLE FOR SIX MONTHS.
For rates of Freight and Passage-money apply
HUDDART, PARKER & CO., Limited.
Offices and Wharf—Foot of Margaret-street.
Bja ASMANIAN EXCURSIONS.
The splendid
S.S. ELINGAMITE, 4000 Tons,
will sail for HOBART DIRECT
on
TUESDAY, MARCH 18, AT 5 p.m.
GREAT REDUCTION IN FARES.
SALOON .. £lO 0
RETURN 1 10 0
STEERAGE .. 0 10 0
RETURN TICKETS AVAILABLE FOR SIX MONTHS.
Also GREAT REDUCTION iN FREIGHT.
HUDDART, PARKER & CO, Limited.
Office and Wharf —Foot of Margaret Street.
WORDDEUTSCHER LLOYD.
•Ml IMPERIAL GERMAN MAIL.
Passengers are carried according to the requirements of
the English Passenger Acts of 1885 and 1863.
MONTHLY LINE OF DIRECT STEAMERS
from
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, and ADELAIDE,
to SOUTHAMPTON, ANTWERP, and BREMEN, via
COLOMBO, Aden, Suez, and Genoa,
taking passengers for London,
connecting from PORT SAID by DIRECT MAIL and
PASSENGER LINE to BRINDISI,
will be despatched as follows (if practicable):—
And thereafter every four weeks.
PASSAGE MONEY from SYDNEY,
£l4 to £57 10s.
RETURN TICKETS, available for NINE and TWELVE
MONTHS, at REDUCED RATES.
Passengers and Cargo are booked through to New York,
via Southampton.
Special facilities are afforded for bringing out relatives
and friends from the United Kingdom and Europe by pre-
payment of the passage money in Australia.
For FREIGHT, PASSAGE, and all further particulars,
apply to FREDK. BETZ & CO., Agents, 5 O’Connell-street.
JJIREGT SERVICE TO ENGLAND.
PENINSULAR AND ORIENTAL STEAM
NAVIGATION COMPANY.
The Company’s Royal Mail Steamships (under contract
with the Imperial, New South Wales, Victorian, and South
Australian Governments) will he dispatched from their
Wharf, Circular Quay, as under, for LONDON, calling at
Melbourne, Adelaide, Albany, Colombo, Aden, Brindisi,
Malta, Gibraltar, and Plymouth.
RESERVED CABINS ON MODERATE TERMS.
SALOON PASSENGERS MAY BREAK THEIR JOUKNEY.
The arrangements for SECOND SALOON PASSENGERS
having been thoroughly re-organisid, the accommodation
now offered is unsurpassed. Passage-money can lac paid
here for passages from England. Liberal concessions made
to families. Passengers, cargo, and parcels are booked
through to India, China, and Japan. Cargo and parcels
will not be received after 3 p.m. on the day previous to
sailing. For all information apply at the Company’s
Offices. 247 George-street. A. MACLEAN Acting Agent.
riOMPAGNIE DES MESSAGERIES MARI-
TIMES.
SYDNEY to.,LONDON.
OVERLAND FROM MAKSEILLES via PARIS.
Steamers under postal contract with the Government of
France, calling at MELBOURNE ADELAIDE, KINO
GEORGE’S SOUND, MAI lE, SUEZ, and PORT SAID.
Passengers hooked to KUIUIACIIEE, BOMBAY,
MAURITIUS, and EAST COAST Of AFRICA.
The service is carried on by powerful steamers of 4000
tons and 3000 effective h.p., built expressly for the Aus-
tralian and New Caledonian line, which will be despatched
is follows; —
Steamers. Commander.
VARRA .. Boullard
AUSTRALIAN Didier .. .
Leave Sydney! Leave Mel-
at 11 a.m. bourne4p.ni
March 25 iMarch !8
'April 25 April 28
And thenceforward on the 25th of each month.
Rates of passage-money to Marseilles from £2O to £65,
including table wines and Suez Canal dues on passengers.
RETURN TICKETS issued at the following rates;—
KngliSh interpreters meet through passengers 1
London on arrival of steamers at Marseilles, and acco
pany t hem to Paris anil Calais. N.B, Passengers' lugga
conveyed tree of cost, from Marseilles to London. I
freight, passage, and further particulars apply at t
Company’s Office, 15 Macquarie-pface.
A. CONIL, Principal Agent
JOHN BRIDGE & CO.,
CIRCULAR QUAY, SUSSEX STREET, As
DARLIXG H ARDOUR,
WOOL BROKERS,
Hides, Tallow, Sheepskins, h'amjaroo, Bear and
Opossum Skins, <tr.
AUCTIONEERS.
GRA.IKT SiVLESMEIC.


READ
THIS.—A few quotations from H. C. Armstrong’s extensive DRUGGISTS’ SUNDRIES
STOCK LIST.
Single Trusses ... ...
Double Trusses ...
Men’s Strengthening Belts and Supports ...
Women’s ditto ditto
Men’s and Women’s Magnetic and Electric
Belts, Supports and Corsets ..
From 3/6
„ 6/6
~ 2/6
~ 4/5
„ 0/6
Air Cushions and Pillows
Ice Bags
Feet and Stomach Warmers
Reversible Celluloid Trusses
Bath Gloves and Rubbers
... From 2/6
2/0
4/6
5 /-
„ 1/-
Chest Protectors (various colours, all sizes)
Respirators for the Mouth (various kinds)
Mother’s Nursing Aprons and Ribs
India-rubber Water Bottles, screw top, two
pints to one gallon ...
From
«>
V-
-2 h
l/«
12/0
Finest Turkey Toilet Sponges ... ...
Finest Turkey Batlt Sponges ...
Pocket Spirit and Oil Lamps for Boiling
Water and Food
Pieese'& Lubins’Perfumes ...
Pears’ assorted Toilet Soaps ... ...
From 1/fl
.. ,
„ 2/-
22/- per doz.
4/6 uer doz.
Kindly send for complete PRICE LIST, which includes all H. C.
ARMS'!'iIONG’S WELL-KNOWN PROPRIETARY MEDICINES.
Note the Address:
HC. c. ARMSTRONG, 156 George Street XVTox'tli, Sydney
INEAR CIRCULAR QUAY);
And at WILCANNIA, BROKEN HILL, SILYERTON and MOUNT BROWNE, N.S.W.
The remaining lots of “ The Liverpoo
East Estate, a quarter of a mile from the Town of
Liverpool, are now for sale at £lO each, easy terms.
Undoubtedly, these lots are the bargain of the
sea on and are well worthy of the attention of
purchasers.
The “ coloured gentleman ” who appeared
before the N.S.W. Full Court (in custody), the
other day, on some matter of landlord and tenant,
and who appears to have been able to defy the
Supreme Court and all its myrmidons, is the same
who was before Chief Justice James Martin some
years ago, in connection with old Bobby Hancock’s
will. He was the only one of the crowd acquitted,
and on leaving the spikes he asked Sir James if he
left “ without « Main." That great lawyer stuck
the usual pane of glass in his eye and after a long
gaze said, “I am not quite prepared to say any-
thing about the stain.''
Sir George Bowen, ex-Governor of Queens-
land, New Zealand, Victoria, Mauritius, Hong-
kong, &-j., publishes his memoirs, including a
reference to the grave tension between England
and Russia in 1878, when ho governed Victoria.
He says he knew at the time there would be no
war, and aMelbourne journalist comm uni cates with
us on the statement, to the effect that lie can bear
it out. This gentleman was hurriedly suit to
interview Bowen, on positive news of the outbreak
of war coining, but Bowen quietly opened his
coat-tails before the fireplace and said ; “There
will be no war. I have received no private des-
patches of warning.”
General Fonseca, the President of the
Brazilian Republic, has a face like that of a bird
of prey. The chief feature of his face is a thin
high nose, very much hooked, above which his
small keen eyes watch restlessly all that is going
on. He wears his hair long, which gives him
anything but a military look, and parted on the
right side, and his forehead has a fictitious
appearance of he’ght, owing to the baldness of
his temples. His thin-lipped mouth is almost
hidden by a long moustache, which curls upwards
like the tusks of a boar, and his full beard is
parted in the centre and combed away on each
side in the French fashion.
Touching the suicide of the Crown Prince
of Austria, it is now generally asserted that the
Emperor Francis Joseph had a liaison years ago
with the Baroness Vctzera, “ the loveliest woman
of his court,” and the horrible position of Rudolph
may be imagined when his father, seeing his
familiarity with the fruits of this intrigue, and
not knowing how far it had gone, said to him”
“Take care what you are doing, the Baroness
Marie is your sister !” The two unhappy lovers
took the shortest way out of the world, and the
Emperor received the news with the words—
“My son! and also my daughter!” Since then the
Empress has gone raving mad.
READ
WHAT THE LEADING
DOCTORS AND CHEMISTS SAY.
“No Medicine introduced to the public has
ever met with the success accorded to Dr. Soule’s
American Hop Bitters. It stands to-day the best
kno vn curative article in the world. It is famous
by reason of its inherent virtues. It does all that
is claimed for if’
“Gentlemen, —No medicine has one-half the
sale and gives such universal satisfaction as your
American Hop Bitters. As several remarkable
cures have been made here, there are any number
of advocates for your medicine.”
“ I have constantly used American Hop Bitters
for the past four years in cases of indigestion,
debility, weakness, and in all diseases caused by
poor and bad ventilation, want of air and exercise,
over-work, and loss of appetite, with the most
perfect success. ”
“ The greatest nourishing tonic, appetizer,
strengthened and curative known to the medical
profession is Dr. Soule’s American Hop Bitters.”
“For all cases of diseases of the liver, stomach,
bowels, or kidneys, I daily recommend the use of
Dr. Soule’s American Hop Bitters.”
“In my practice I am constantly prescribing
your Hop Bitters, and have found every case
relieved by their use.”
“I can heartily recommend the use of Dr.
Soule’s American flop Bitters.”
“ Gentlemen.—Your medicine will cure when
all other remedies fail.”
CAUTION.-See that each bottle lias
genuine label, hunch of green hops on
white paper.
• ©
HIGHLY IMUTRITIVt
MAY Bt ÜBTAINLU IN LAHtlltU 1 INS UK PACKETS THRdIKiHOUTTHF UOLUNY
THE SYDNEY DRIVERS’ PROTECTIVE ASSOCIATION
INSURANCE, FINANCIAL.
—AND —
and GENERAL
ESTATE AGENCY.
£lOO,OOO ONE HUNDRED THOUSAND POUNDS TO LEND £lOO,OOO
In sums not less than Five Pounds (£5) on all classes of Approved Security at 5J to 7 per cent.
Property released'from Building Societies, &c.
Offices: Exchange Chambers, George and Campbell Streets, Haymarket, Sydney, N.S.W.
This Company is for the Benefit of all Horse Drivers and Proprietors of Horses and Vehicles.
Proprietors Please Note: -This Company is responsible for your horses and vehicles, providing you 1 '
drivers are subscribers (same as if the said drivers’ own property).
VETERINARY SURGEON :
John Pottie, Esq.,JM.R.C.V.S.,E., 232 Castlereagh-st. ,Syd.
COACHBUILl fERS;
Messrs. Robertson and Co., Factory, 417 Pitt-st., Sydney.
C. Whately, Esq., Factory, Newtown.
DOCTORS:
A. C. Brownless, Esq., M.D., 285 Elizabeth-st., Sydney'.
J. G. Bourchier, Esq., M.D., J.P., Redfern-st., Redfern.
DISPENSING CHEMIST :
H. A. Rose, Esq., M.P.S., 531 Georgc-st., Sydney.
SOLICITOR. :
W. J. Hill, Esq., 2(5 Elizabeth-st., Sydney.
BANKERS:
The Australian Joint Stock Bank, Haymarket.
MANAGING DIRECTOR :
Francis Australia Piper, A., C.E,, Q.S.
Office Hours: 9 a.m. till 12.30., and 2 p.iu. till 5 pan.
Subscribers Claims on the Company.
1. —Have the services of the Company’s Solicitor free
for their defence at the Police Courts when summoned for
breaches of the by-laws of the M.T.C. and S.M.C., and his
special advice in connection with any such cases.
2. —ln addition to the above the Company will lend sub-
scribers money to pay their fines into Court, which they
can arrange to pay off by instalments.
3. —Are entitled to send their vehicles to the Company’s
coachbuilders and have any damage, caused by accident,
made good, free to any amount not exceeding Five Pounds
Five Shillings (£5 55.) for each and every accident.
4. —Have the attendance of the Company’s Veterinary
Surgeon on their horses, and medicines free. If a horse
dies from natural causes the carcase will be removed ; if
killed by accident Five Pounds Five Shillings (£5 55.) will
be paid for same.
5. —A Subscriber is allowed two horses and one vehicle.
Special arrangements made where Subscribers are using
more than two horses.
6. —Have the attendance of the Company’s Doctor and
Medicines free. In case of death from natural causes the
deceased shall be buried by the Company ; if killed by
accident, Ten Pounds Ten Shillings (£lO 10s.) in addition
to funeral expenses.
7. —Subscriber being a married man can, by paying Is.
6d. extra per month, have the doctor and medicine free
for his wife and children up to 14 years of age, free also.
8. —All medicines ordered by Company’s Doctors obtained
free from Company’s Chemist.
Subscriptions. —Entrance Fee, 3s. Subscriptions, 2s. 6d. per month, or £1 Is. per annum, payable in
advance. If married and require the doctor for wife and children, Is. Od. per month extra.
MKDICAL REFORM
<#
Co
«. jf• »/•
/efy £&sLolS<*Sj£
T
rpHERE exists a crying need for
the medical profession to stay
the quackery which is so rampant
in these colonies. Men having no
medical qualifications nor aptitude
for the treatment of diseases, still
advertise with impunity as doctor
and guarantee to do what they know
they are incapable of doing, and
thus deceive the public who are
caught by their specious and lying
advertisements, as is amply testified
by reading the exposures in the
Daily Telegraph from August 3
to 11, 1887.
A chief cause of this state of things
is that medical men front mistaken
notions of professional decorum,
and because they consider it infra
dig, refrain from entering the field
against these quacks. So long as this prudery exists so long will this canker consume our youth. At the risk, how-
ever, of professional opprobrium I have decided to throw aside this false delicacy, and avow my sympathy with, and
readiness to treat such affections, in the hope of saving the young of both sexes from the ruin of health and mind
which consulting these quacks ensures, not to mention the ruin of their pockets.
A patient writes to me : “ I am in such a miserable state I would pay you what 1 could afford for a lifetime, if
you could possibly be the means of letting me know what health is, and perhaps saving me from suicide which seems
to be my only release if this appeal fails. Kindly and humanely do not allow it to be in vain, and you will never regret
it. I have been victimised by a person calling himself a ‘doctor.’ My father (of course I did not let him know the
nature of my ailment) paid this person £7 75., all for nothing, for which he said he would guarantee a cure in three
months.” Now, if qualified medical men would advertise in such a way as to bring their names before these sufferers,
and convince them of their sympathy, cases like the above which unfortunately are of daily occurrence, would not
occur : groundless fears would not be excited, and where disease exists it would be safely and permanently cured. I
am a legally and highly qualified practitioner, and have for over 20 years devoted especial study to chronic, nervous
and special diseases of men and women, and I am therefore justified in guaranteeing a cure in all cases amenable to
treatment. i
Sufferers from impaired vitality, or nervousness, should read my book on “Nervous Debility,” free by post foi-
ls., where they will find much useful information and directions for self-cure. Those wishing a farther insight should
read my work on the “ Male Generative Function in Health and Disease,” free by post for 2s. (3d.
Consultation by Letter ... £l.
Dr. ALEX. PATERSON,
AM,, M.D., F.R.C.S., Ed., M.R.C.S., Exo.,
157 ELIZABE'i’H STREET, SY3DKTEY.
Hotels.
PFAHLEET’S HOTEL
SYDNEY, N.S.W.,
Opposite the Park, Wynyard Square.
(Under New Management.)
rpifJS for 25 years well-known First-class Central Hotel,
- L recently thoroughly renovated throughout, has every
comfort and attention of a home. The Cuisine Department
is under competent French supervision. Dining Doom
open for Non-Residents. Open-air Recreation Garden.
A well-ventilated Billiard Boom adjoining Recreation
Ground (three Alcock's best Tables), under the manage-
ment of A. Buckingham, late of Empire llote’. Wim.i
and Spirits of the very best quality only, and the Finest
and Coolest Bar in Town
HOT AND COLD BATHS.
J r' ' xifarr
Telephone \o. 150.
I HVfll'll
IIKIII.KIf)
I
Spokm.
SPECIAL SUITES FOR FAMILIES.
CHAS. HECHT ... Manager.
GUNTHER’S BRISBANE CAFE,
George Street (below Hunter-st.), Sydney.
GUNTHER, late of the Wheatsheaf Hotel,
1 Castlereagh-st., is desirous of informing his patron i
and the public generally that he has now become pro-
prietor of the BRISBANE CAFE, GEORGE STREET.
These premises are commodious, and every convenience i i
obtainable. None but liquors of the first quality retailed
Two of Alcock’s Prize Billiard Tables provided. Files of
sporting and dramatic papers kept. Special accommoda-
tion for the theatrical profession.
ATOOMBA FAMILY HOTEL.
First-class Accommodation for Tourists and Families.
Wires and Letters to be addressed “Proprietor.”
Arrangements can be made to provide transit for persons
wishing to view the celebrated Jenolau C’uves and
other places of interest.
JOSEPH NIMMO
Miscellaneous.
Book of KTatixre.
i •-
Book of Dfature.
BOOK OF NATURE and Illustrated Matri-
monial Guide. A full and explicit explanation
of the structure and uses of the organs of life and genera-
tion in man and woman, intended especially for the
married, or those intending to marry, and who conscien-
tiously and honestly desire to inform themselves upon the
intent and nature of marriage and its duties, to which is
added a complete MEDICAL TREATISE upon all diseases
of the generative organs, whether resulting from infection
or sexual excesses and abuse, with much other valuable
and highly important information, illustrated with more
than fifty engravings, by M. Lafayette Byrn, M.D. ; price
3/6, post 4/-. The Fruits of Philosophy or Private Com-
panion for Married People, post 1/2. Mrs. Besant’s Law of
Population, X/-, post 1/2. Wonderful Song Book, extra
large, 1/6. Aristotle, complete, 3/6, post 4/-. Maria Monk,
1/6, post 1/9. New complete Fortune Teller, 2s. ‘‘The
Matron’s Manual or Midwifery,” the book every married
woman needs; price 7/-, posted 7/6. “The Male Genera-
tive Organs,” their use and abuse, with many illustrations
and coloured plates; price 7/-, posted 7/6. The arts of
Boxing, Swimming and Gymnastics made easy, enabling
anyone to become an expert boxer or athlete, illustrated
with fifty engravings ; price 1/-. “ Marriage as it was, as
it is, and as it should be,” by Mrs. Besant; 1/-, posted 1/2.
Dr. Foote's Plain Home Talk, new edition, over 200 illu-
strations; 7/6, post free. “The Labour Movement in
America,” by Aveling, post free 1/6. Matrimony, or
Phrenology and Physiology applied to the selection of
Congenial Companions for Life, fid. The Elements of
Social Science ; 3/6, posted 4/-. Nigger Songs, fid. Henry
George’s Works all at 1/-, posted 1/4. Works of Ingersoli,
Paine, Bradlaugh, Besant, Foote. Send for catalogue.
SIR IROIBIIIIR/T BEAE,
Radical Book Stores,
16Ui PARK STREET. SYDNEY.
Drunkenness!
Or the Liquor Habit Positively Cured, by administering
Dr. Elaines’ Golden Specific
It can be given in a clip of coffee or tea, without the
knowledge of the person taking it; it is absolutely harm-
less, and will effect a permanent and speedy cure, whethei
the patient is a moderate drinker or an alcoholic wreck.
IT NEVER FAILS. Book, with full particulars, free.
GOLDEN SPECIFIC CO., 145&147 Collins-st., Melbourne.
THE SYDNEY CATERING COMPANY,
(Late Gunsler’s Cafe)
ITS Pitt Street, Sydney,
WISH their former Patrons ami Hie Public Generally to know that their Saloons have been Entikklv U kojk: anand shall be. glad if they will give
their new cusine a trial. .TAMES 0- MARQUAND, Manager-


Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
Photography.— Charlemont and Co. (vice-regal
photographers), in the Royal Arcade, beg to an-
nounce that they have now reduced'the price of
their Cabinet Photographs to One Guinea per doz.
any style—bust, vignette or three-quarter figure.
Messrs. Charlemont feel assured that this reduc-
tion in price will meet the many who refrained
from sitting in their studio, solely on account of
the price hitherto being higher than they might
care to pay. Grosvenor Galleries, Royal Arcade.
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
Building Sites, City of Perth, W.A. Plans
Intercolonial Investment Co., Limited, 96 Bathurst-
street, Sydney.
Everybody says—and what everybody says must be true
—that Pemell’s Snow white Patent Roller Elour is the
best in the market.
Medical
✓5.
D)
■ vT
c
o
I'*
on
iSR
<4ta»
“God Bless the Duke of Argyle”
The most distressing forms of itching and inflam-
matory diseases of the skin and scalp are instantly
relieved and permanently cured by the Cuticura
Remedies, when all others fail.
Cuticura, the Great Skin Cure, and Cuticura
Soap, an exquisite Skin Beautifler, prepared from
it, externally, and Cuticura Resolvent, the new
Blood Purifier, internally, cure every form of tor-
turing, disfiguring, itching, scaly and pimply dis-
eases of the skin, scalp and blood, with loss of
hair, from infancy to old age.
I have been cured of a most unbearable itching
skin disease by the Cuticura Remedies. They
have enabled me to escape years of suffering.
You may use my name as a reference, and any one
who wants to know about my case may write me,
inclosing stamp. W. B. BROOKS,
47 Grove Street, Providence, R. I.
I am a canvasser, and one year ago I was badly
afflicted with salt rheum, so that I was unable to
walk. I tried the Cuticura Remedies, and they
e. Jtirely cured me. F. E. PERKY, Rome, N. Y.
Sold everywhere. Price, Cuticura, 50c. ; Soap,
25c.; Resolvent, $l. Prepared by the Potter
Drug and Chemical Co., Boston, Mass.
,$-g”Send for “How to Cure Skin Diseases,” 64
pages, 60 illustrations, and 100 testimonials.
Pih!
PLES, blackheads, red, rough, chapped and
oily skin prevented by Cuticura Soap.
Two years ago I was attacked with eczema. 1
cannot tell you what I suffered. I was the most for-
lorn spectacle you ever saw, Charles Kennedy, of
this place, showed me your pamphlet on skin dis-
eases, and among them I found the description
suitable to my case. I bought the Cuticura
Remedies. I took seven bottles, with the Cuti-
cura and Soap, and the result is a permanent
cure. I thought I would wait and see if it would
come back, but it has proved all you said it would
do, so I will say God bless you and yours.
THOS. L. GRAY, Leavertown, Ohio.
I, John J. Case, D.D. S., having practised den-
tistry in this country for thirty-five years, and being
well known to thousands hereabouts, with a view
to help any who are afilicted as I have been for the
past twelve years, testify that the Cuticura Rem-
edies cured me of Psoriasis, or Scaly Skin, in
eight days, after the doctors with whom I had con-
sulted gave me no help or encouragement.*
Newton, N. J. JOHN J. CASE, D. D. 8.
The Cuticura Remedies have permanently
cured me of dandruff and facial eruptions when all *
other remedies had failed. For nine months my
head has been entirely free from the slightest signs
of dandruff, and my skin is as clear as when I wss
a boy. LOU THOMPSON, New Britain, Conn.
HANDS
Soft, white, and free from chaps and
redness, by using Cuticura Soap.
Address: R TOWNS & CO., SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Great Medical Reform!
Consult (FREE) HERR RASSMUSSEN, the Celebrated Danish Herbalist,
Expert Specialist in all Private Complaints, Barrenness and Nervous Diseases.
$
DENMARK
Mm
%
%
V
%
%
%
%
£
\
%
v?>
ĥgjhg
T
0
R
IE
P
L
0
s
I
I
L
I
r
v
\jlCOR‘
p
✓
jhg
; s i#l
r
9
e#
ĝhh
RESIDE
V
wilAlllY
A Guaranteed Cure
Nervobs £)bbilitv and
Lost Vitalito-.
225. 6d. per Course.
Smaller Box ss. M.
Only Herbalist in Australia
That has received “Gold Medal” for Great Cukes Performed, and is Honourably Mentioned in the “Centennial History of New South Wales ’
for Great Herbal Discoveries; and who can prove that he has CURED OVER 20,000 PATIENTS.
Sole Proprietor and Discoverer of the Celebrated
DENMARK VITALITY PILLS, Registered,
Which have been the means of Curing so many Thousands of Sufferers from Nervous Debility, Lost Vitality, Errors, Weakness Despondency
Impure Blood. 225. 6d. per Course ; Smaller Box, os. Gd.
Grenuizie Testimonials.
To HERR RASSMUSSEN.
Dear Sir,—This is to certify that you cured me of a very serious blood
disease, after many doctors had failed. —JOHN REYNOLDS, Chappel-
street, Leichhardt, Sydney.
To HERR RASSMUSSEN, the celebrated Danish Herbalist.
Dear Benefactor, —
I have much pleasure to inform the public that you cured my wife of
an internal complaint of a very serious nature, after all the doctors had
given her up. —ARCHIBALD MACFARLANE, Eden Cottage,
Barney-street, Annidaie.
To HERR RASSMUSSEN, Specialist in Nervous Diseases.
Dear Sir, —I hereby thank you for the great cure you performed on
me for a very complicated nervous affection, and I shall always recom-
mend you to sufferers from Nervous Debility.—PHlLLlP STEAD,
54 Parramatta-road, Annandale, Sydney.
To HERR RASSMUSSEN, Danish Herbalist.
Dear Sir and Benefactor, —It gives me great pleasure to testify
to your wonderful skill in the treatment of Disease. You cured me of a
terrible complaint after the doct rs gave me up, and although it is four
years since, lam as well as ever. I sha 1 ! recommend you to al'. —Yours,
gratefully, A. RAMSDEN, Great Wi stern Coffee Palace, Castlereagh-
street, Sydney.
To HERR RASSMUSSEN, Specialist in Nervous Diseases.
Dear Sir, —I hereby certify that I have been under your skilful
treatnent for a very obstinate ca'6 of nervous debility, and that you
cured me with one course of your Vitality Pills.—D. M‘NEILL,
Hornsby Junction, N.S.W.
Opinions of fixe Press.
i “ a - well-known fact that HERE, RASSMUSSEN, the Cele-
brated Danish Herbalist, has performed many great cures during the
past few years, as his numerous testimonials will prove.
—Sydney Bulletin.
HERR RASSMUSSEN.—We have been shown some excellent
testimonials of the great cures performed by Herr Rassmussen, the
celebrated Danish Herbalist.—Australian Star.
HERR RASSMUSSEN has now been established in the colonies
for 10 years.—Sunday Times, April 28, 1888.
HERR RASSMUSSEN has become a celebrity in the curing of all
diseases of the nervous system. His name has become a wonder through-
out the Southern Hemisphere. He was presented with a Gold Medal for
some of his miraculous cures. - Balmain Leader, May 12, 1888.
HERR RASSMUSSEN.—The remarkable cures which he has
effected ai e pretty generally known.—Balmain Observer, April, 28, 1888.
We are perpetually receiving letters from HERR RASSMUSSEN’S
cured pa' lents requesting us to make known to the public the wonderful
medical .-kill this remarkable man possesses, and he has just been pre-
sented with a gold medal from several of his cured patients.
—Sydney Weekly News, May 26, 1887.
HERR RASSMUSSEN’S HERBAL REMEDIES
( Registered')
DENMARK VITALITY PlLLS.—Guaranteed to cure nervous debility Lost
\ itahty, Errors of Youth and Despondency. Price, 225. 6d. per full course -’small
box, ss. (id.
DENMARK FEMALE RESTORER PlLLS.—Guaranteed to cure all complaints
peculiar to Females, Irregularities, and eradicates complaints which cause barren-
ness. Price, 225. 6d. per course ; small box, ss. 6d.
LOCK CURE PlLLS.—Guaranteed to Cure all diseases of the blood discharges
sores, and strictures. Price, 225. Cd. per course, small box, ss. 6d. ’
CONSULTATION AND ADVICE FREE.
All the above remedies are made of PURE HERBS, and are forwarded unobserved. A valuable treatise on Nervous Debility, Private Complaints, and Barrenness sent
free, on receipt of 4d stamped addressed envelope. Consultation personally or by post, free. Patients are examined with the aid of the Microscope.
Address
Herr RASSMUSSEN the Danish Herbalist
Corner GrordLon-street & Park-road, Paddington, Sydney.
TRAMS—Take Paddington Tram to Elizabeth-street, Paddington.
s.
%
DENMARK
%
%
\
9*
%
%
%
A
I
§V
&
A
I
ft
h
s
mjcSB
# tH '
h
0$
ĥ
J”
f
(0
h
foils'
lITY
A OnnuanJKWSfOare
for .
,'taRTW* m««rr and
Loot Vita lot.
S2s. (*i. but y«iu se.
Swa*erW<*«>AM.
The release of the Hopeful prisoners recalls
the Carl atrocities in the early seventies. Dr.
James Patrick Murray, son of a respected settler
in the neighbourhood of Schnapper Point (Vic.),
organised a party for pleasure and profit to work
a “ labour” trip in the South Seas. The brig Car
was purchased; the captain was Joseph Arm-
strong, who shipped a full crow, with Dr. Murray
as supercargo and two respectably-connected
young men —Mount (the celebrated amateur
steeplechase-rider) and Morris — as passengers.
The position occupied by these young men has
never been clearly defined. What occurred was
detailed by Dr. Murray, who turned Queen’s
evidence, and did his level best in Sydney and
Melbourne to hang his assoc ates. The captain,
mate and one seaman were convicted at Darling-
hurst and sentenced to be hanged, but the sentences
were commuted—the captain’s and mate’s to hard
labour for life, the seaman’s to ten years. Six other
seamen were tried and five convicted, each getting
two years; the sixth escaped through accepting
Judge Paucett’s advice that he should keep his
mouth shut. At Melbourne, Mount and ,\1 rris
were tried and sentenced to “14 years’ transporta-
tion.” After Mount and his companion had been
in Pentridge for a few months, an eccentric and
able barrister named Martley discovered the point
that the men could not be transported. Ireland,
Q.C., took the point and applied for a writ of
habeas corpus. He won the case, whereupon the
prisoners, who were in Court, were immediately
discharged and were received outside with
acclamation, “ Dick ” Ireland, in wig and gown,
being hoisted shoulder-high. Mount and Morris
disappeared from that moment as if the earth had
swallowed them. The writer saw the captain in
irons in the gaol at Parramatta a couple of years
afterwards, but what his subsequent fate was is
mot known publicly. It is said that Murray went
mad and committed suicide.
Here follow some few remarks bearing on
a man of turbulent passions—a lone, lorn China-
man —and a cat with ginger hair and whiskers,
which aggregation inhabited a small promontory
jutting out into the river near Nagambie (Vic.).
The large, grim individual given to sudden fits of
tempestuous feeling and violent ebullitions of
wrath was an ill-conditioned, scrub-headed, hard-
faced “ hatter ” named Canty, and between him and
his neighbour, the pale and depressed Sm Ming,
there existed a chronic coolness that would cause
the bottom to drop out of the thermometer. Sin
Ming was stunted of stature and moderate in his
tastes and inclinations, was retiring and awkward
in his manner, and never before gave the Caucasian
just and legal cause or provocation to rise up in Ins
wrath and smite him, for which reason Canty held
him in abhorrence, considering that the heathen
plotted to deprive him of the proper exercise of his
limbs and faculties, which salubrious recreation,
he believed, would be most judiciously obtained in
impromptu combats with the humble, angle-eyed
orphan. Canty owned the cat —he was not
wrapped up in the animal to any great extent, but
finding it a soft, pliable object to kick when
moved by the spirit to hit out'and about with his
feet, he retained the ginger-headed feline in his
service. Noticing that the cat did not seem to be
put to any particular use, and wishing to enlarge
his sphere, Sin one day enticed her into
his hut and took off her head for renovation
and repairs, and had her for a Sunday dinner
in the shape of thick, dark-brown, Chinee fricassee.
Canty was not invited, and he did not notice the
absence of the amiable blonde, till he saw her
carroty complexion tacked on the wall of the
pagan’s humpy, taking the sun ; then he heaved a
yell, and, without waiting to arrange preliminaries,
sailed through Mr. Ming’s fence, and “ fetched ”
the heathen, who was watering his cabbage-plants,
a dull thud on the top of the head with a shovel,
which, had not Sin’s tail been curled up there to
receive it, would have wafted that Celestial oui
cast to the bosom of Joss’s Father Abraham
at express rates, with no stoppages at inter
mediate stations. Canty and the Chinamai
then took hold of each other by the loos
parts of their faces, and fell and floundered al
over about an acre of cultivated ground, grubbing
up Sin’s vegetable - preserves in a harrowing
manner, complainant yelling, “ Give,me back me
cat, ye hathen baste !” and defendant feebly re
iterating, “Me no savee !” And so the debate
continued for over 40 minutes, Canty affirming
the Chinee denying; and then the heathen was
left soiled and damaged, wearily gasping amongsi
a dismantled forest of cabbages, cauliflowers, and
other wrecked vegetation. But that was not the
end of the insurrection, for in the gloaming Canty
waited on his yellow neighbour again in another
burst of unfeigned resentment and threw him
about and bunged up his features and forced him
to partake of a malignant emetic fifty degrees over-
proof with a view to recoveiing the oat, and
depriving Mr. Ming of what little consola-
tion he might extract from its sympathy and
support. Next day, at noon, Canty suffered
another unreasonable upheaval, and arrived sud-
denly, and adroitly overthrew Sin Ming, so that
he fell in the river, and floated a mile before he
could recover himself and recall the circumstances.
At midnight the raging Irishman went across on
an impulse in his shirt, and pulled the Chow out
his bunk by the tail of his head, and demanded
the cat in the Queen’s name ; and, failing in his
quest, he compelled the unscientific heathen to
fight him for a half-a-crown, after which he cut
off Sin’s head of hair with a tommy-axe and took
away the stakes. Sin suffered from a series of
these spasmodic attacks, and was about to seek
relief from the law when Canty well and
truly summoned him to show Jest and reason-
able cause why he should not be compelled to
restore that cat. Canty lost the suit because
he had neglected to register his cat, or because he
could not swear to its birthmarks, but that made
no difference to him, and, assuming the functions
of a regularly ordained bailiff, he went into pos-
session of Sin Ming’s hut and all appurtenances
thereto, prior to the settlement of his bill of £5 lbs.
for one adult, strawberry-blonde cat of middle
age and good condition, and he so confounded and
distressed the guileless foreigner with legal terms,
and technicalities, and threats of counsel’s fees
and bills of costs, that Ming was glad to accept a
compromise, and pay over thr-e pounds in liquida-
tion of all considerations ; whereupon an armistice
was arranged, and Mr. Canty backed down and
restrained himself. This shows how the stranger
in a strange land gets tripped up and trodden on,
and argues the necessity of a slope-eyed, yellow-
corn plexioned commissioner in these parts to assist
the Mongol in elevating his end and keeping it up
indefinitely.


Business Announcements.
—THE—
Fresh Food & |ce (X
LIMITED,
HARBOUR STREET,
SYDNEY,
Are evidently determined to go ahead They are
now supplying Customers who take a Quart of
Milk and Over per Day at
THREEPENCE PER QUART!
This appears very wonderful, hut it is
quite true.
Weekly A.c c oumts.
A. BOWMAN’S
LONDON MADE
Porpoise Hide Boots
Are Reduced from 30s. to 21s.
249 PITT ST., SYDNEY, Near Tattersall's.
Porpoise Hide Wears Twice as Long
as any other Leather.
They _ are noted all over London,
Birmingham and Liverpool.
London Fashions,
AND
Fresh Goods Every Fortnight.
Trade Supplied Wholesale at a Great Advantage.
PLOUGH-SHARES.
IN EQUITY.
Hornsby v. Hudson.
notice
TO THE
liming CoMini .j of New South f its.
HUDSON BROS., Ltd.,
£re still making the Shares which formed
the subject of this great lawsuit. They
are now branded
DEE
and their quality is better than ever
n
HUO
Farmers desirous of encouraging Colonial
Industry can obtain these Shares from our
Local Agent.
NOTE—Trial samples free of cost*
HOT and COLD
Seawater Baths,
W’arrsambooi), Victoria.
e yg i e sno, cura t r ve.
SCIATICA, RHEUMATISM,
ITervous & Skin Diseases.
Testimonials from all parts of the
Colonies.
Water direct from Southern Ocean
pumped by irns motor, retaining all
natural qualities; tree from objec-
tions of Ray water. L,argp swim-
ming basins for ladies and gentle-
men. Marble plunge baths, hand-
somely appointed. Bracing air,
charming scenery, fishing, shooting,
beautiful dru es place Warrnambool
in the front rank as a sanatorium.
MEX mav come and men may go, but we still sell our
own steam-cut and screened
FIR/IIMCIE O-A-TEIST CHAFF
4s. 6d. per cwt., bags free
4s. Od. ,, „ purchaser to find bags.
Conic and see ! It will astonish yon t
Free Delivery in the City.
City Produce Company, Hay-st., Haymarket.
STEAM CHAFF CUTTERS.
Palls Bk idge Family Hotel.
Falls Bridge, Melbourne.
This magnificent Hotel, containing 50 Double
and Single Rooms, is splendidly furnished and
perfectly ventilated.
Sot &nd CoJd Plunge and Shower Baths.
Electric Bells. Telephone 1217. Billiards, dee.
Terms Strictly Moderate,
J, H. DURR ANT "" Manager,
Late of the South Australian Club Hotel, Adelaide.
Business Announcements.
r
r
m-RTs
a
MObLS
A
ANTS
NM'ER
w
V-
‘c
JV
GO#
n a □
S C 3
aii, •• "
iv
!S?S
■
ii/
3
112115
ROBERTS & CO
—W HOLESALE—
Ironmongers* Importers* Iron and Machinery Merchants*
HAY AND ENGINE STREETS SYDNEY,
Head Office: 85 Gracechurch Street, London, E.C.
IMPORTERS OF
Railway & Bridge Contractors’
Plumbers’
Squatters'
Requirements
IN
Great Variety.
r IMPORTERS OF
Engineers' and Blacksmiths’
Conchbuilders'
_ Mining
AGENTS FOR:
Korting’s Gas Engines— The best and cheapest yet made. Automatic self-governing, thus saving cost of gas.
Braddock’s Water and Gas Meters and Gas Lamps. Reading Iron Works Universal (Split) Pulley Wheels
Howe’s Platform and Counter Weighing Machines and Weighbridges.
>. AN ,
■, • 1
«>;
'*•■■■ ■
mm
m m
r-
WvvVyvvyW*
.
«BsWm
",»
<fc
3
sn
VS-N'S. •■■ \ NX -
m’-:
Guinness’ Extra Stout.
FIRST QUALITY,
Bass Pale Ale,
FIRST QUALITY.
Sole Puevetoes to the
Colonial & Indian Exhibition.
London,
(By Special Appointment).
Wholesale Agents Balchin, Johnston & Co., Sydney.
M. B. FOSTER & SONS, LONDON,
“BUGLE” BEAUD ALE STOUT.
)(
PUBLIC NOTICE.
It having come to our knowledge that ALE and STOUT of very inferior quality, in bottles wit,
skillfully forged labels have lately been palmed cff on the public
We desire to warn our friends of the fact, and to state that all corks as well as capsules of the
bottles shipped by Messrs. M. B. FOSTER & SONS to this colony bear their name and address.
Any information respecting Bottled Beer purporting to be “Foster’s_ Bugle Brand ” offered
for sale without these corks and capsules will be esteemed by the undersigned, who have instruc-
tions to bring to justice the perpetratr rs of the frauds.
A Liberal Reward will be given for information leading to conviction of the offenders.
' )(
BALCHIN, JOHNSTON & CO., Sydney,
Agents for Messrs. M. B. Foster & Sons.
A.ak for Kupper’s Elberfeld Lager Beer
(Specially Brewed for Australia). Absolutely Free from Sediment.
THE
Wolstley Sheep-Shearing* Machine.
PASTORALISTS are notified that, to avoid disappointment,
no time should be lost in Booking Orders for next Season.
Agents: J. H. GED DES & CO.,
19 PHILLIP STREET, SYDNEY.
3^
EVERY
DESCRIPTION
or
HAIR WORK DONE
%
%
%
%
%
%
/
<s?
/
-
PRIVATE
ROOMS
FDR LADIES
/22*24\
/ROYAL ARCADE
MELBOURNE
dims’ Life Assurance Company.
LIMITED.
Capital £200,000.
Head Office:
21 Castlereagh St, Sydney,
With Branches and Agencies throughout the Colonies.
HXTe-vv Bxi.sin.ess:
1887 Tlterc were Issued 19,557 Policies.
1888 „ „ 34,684 „
1889 „ „ „ 57,323 „
These figures show the wonderful progress of the
Company and the high esteem placed upon its
liberal dealings by the public.
CLAIMS PAID
Immediately on Proof of Death
JAMES P. OARVAN, \
WM. ALEX. SMITH, f
Managing Director.
Secretary.
Medical.
ARE YOU NERVOUS?
IF SO,
DON’T MISS THIS!
What everyone says is bound to be true, and young
and old, rich and poor, physicians who recommend, and
patients who try
The Krupp Galvanic Chain Belt,
All agree in praising that most scientific of Electro
Therapeutical Appliances. For Rheumatism it is un-
rivalled. Lumbago at once succumbs to its power. The
Nervous are strengthened and the Debilitated restored to
perfect health and vigour. In short, the appliance is an
unfailing cure for all Nervous, Sexual, or Chronic Diseases,
and is GUARANTEED to ABSOLUTELY CURE, com-
pletely and lastingly, the following complaints:—
Dyspepsia, Neuralgia, Pains in the Back and Chest,
Lumbago, Catarrh, Rheumatism, Dumb Ague,
Nervous Debility, Paralysis, Kidney Complaint,
Spinal Disease, Female Weakness, Diseases of the
Liver, Impotence, Seminal Weakness, Diabetes,
Sciatica, Atrophy, Gout, Indigestion, Asthma, Piles,
Epilepsy Spermatorrhoea, Specks before the Eyes,
Excessive Heart Palpitation, Defective Memory.
An linfiiillng Cure For Varicocele.
It is a PORTABLE BODY BATTERY, and contains
special appliances for both sexes; therefore, why waste
your money and health by procuring and taking USELESS
DRUGS ? Electricity, when properly applied, is acknow-
ledged by all leading and unprejudiced physicians to be
the only safe and radical cure for Nervous and Sexual
Diseases, and the thousands of testimonials received by
the Krupp Belt Co. from leading personages throughout
Australasia prove the unquestionable curative properties
of Electricity as applied by the appliance above referred to.
Our confidence in this appliance is so complete, that
we send the Belt out on trial, and guarantee it
to give perfect satisfaction. For full particulars as to
terms, etc., send for our lar-ge illustrated treatise, free,
in which these Belts are fully illustrated, the action of
electricity on the nervous system explained, and a lot of
useful information on nervous and sexual diseases given.
This treatise also contains facsimile of testimonials received
from some of our clients who have tried our Belts. The
originals of these testimonials produced on application.
The prices of the Krupp Galvanic Chain Belt and
Suspensory are from £l.
Sole Inventor Carl Krupp.
Business Manager . . A. W. Courtney.
Address all communications to the
Krupp Galvanic Chain Belt Co,,
Box 647, G.P.0., Sydney, N.S.W.
Remember—The K.G. Chain Belt cures without medicine,
is easy to wear, is sent on approval, and the first cost is
the only cost.
JNDISPENSAELE JOJ RADIES
AND ALL PERSONS
With a Delicate Skin!
MOUSONS
*
•v
Cocoa Butter Soap is a real skin-beautifier, and a balm to
young and old alike.
MOUSON & CO., PERFUMERS & TOILET SOAP MANUFACTURERS,
FRANKFORT-ON-THE-M AIN E.
LONDON: 32 & 33 HAMSELL-ST., E.C. PARIS: 29 RUE RADZIWILL.
Full guarantee for perfect purity is offered by the
sole Manufacturers, Mouson & Co.
JULIUS GOLDSCHMIDT & CO.,
231 CLARENOE-ST., SYDNEY,
SOLE AGENTS FOR AUSTRALASIA.
V
mu//
7a
vSSm
a
G
ill
m
LOT*
wm
m
185
EST
r pHIS valuable Lotion is guaranteed to cure SWELLING
T and SANDY BLIGHT, INFLAMED EYES and LIDS,
DIMNESS OF SIGHT, &c. It will be found very bene-
ficial and cooling to those who have weak eyes, or whose
work compels them to strain their eyes. Highly
recommended by the leading Oculists.
Manufactured only by the Proprietor,
H. A. ROSE
Dispensing and Manufacturing Chemist,
531 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Wholesale by the Proprietor and all Wholesale Houses.
Established IS3S. By Post 3s. 6d.
ST” Manufacturer of Dr. SOUTHAN’S GOUT and
RHEUMATIC PILLS.
THE PRESCRIPTION
X>. O. Ij.
WHAT IS IT?
THOMAS M CHEERY:
MEDICAL HERBALIST,
S 3 Oxford Street, 4 doors above Riley Street,
Private Diseases of Both Sexes a Speciality. ,
Consultations Gratis. Charges very Moderate.
A Trial Solicited.
A SPEEDY CURE GUARANTEED.
ows
SETiffllß Ai
R
Mli
t/
J \\ SOLD
''everywhere'!
m


Medical.
NERVOUS MEN.
mM
M
5f
\ \ eureka
ELECTRIC I
y
kSf
i ■
5*
7V<
A NEVER FAlfclNQ- CiJllE FOB ALL.
DISEASES OF THE nervous system
Complete with Suspensory Appliances from £l. 0. 0 am
Upwards., This famous Electric Magnetic Belt will cur
KWotJS DEBILITY, Seminal Bebility, Impotence
and all Weakness caused by indiscretion. Lains in th
Back, Lumbago, Giddiness, Rheumatism, Kidney am
Bladder complaints, and in fact any disease of the Nervou
By stem. The currents are steady and constantly felt lr
the wearer. It has gloat improvements over all othei
belts, We are willing to furnish ‘those belts on 30 dav‘
trial, and accept payment after they have proved them-
selves what we represent them to be. Those bolts art
tnade for the specific purpose of producing a continuous
buld, soothing current of electricity through dll the weak-
ened parts, restoring them to health and vigorous strength
even the worst edstt permanently cured in three months
|t is more ednvemeut to wear than any other Belt,
ft Book illustrated, containing full information and testi-
monials from prominent people throughout Australia,
knd informing persons how they may obtain these belts
fehput paying for them until they have proved them com!
petent to cure any disease of the Nervous System, will be
Vwardcd to any address on receipt of k 2d stamp far
Address;- VOLTAIC BELT COMPANY
Box 916, Q. P. 0., SYDuay.
Dr. J ames D. Llewellyn,
(tUSGISTKRKD)
SPECIALIST in
GEBITO-UEIMEY DISEASES,
May be CONSULTED at
-3 25 LONSDALE STREE T—
(between Swanston & Elizabeth Sts ),
MELBOURNE.
KT Consulting Hours—lo to 2; 7to 9. Sunday
Mornings, 10 to 11.
All Personal Consultations are free; by letter tl
Fee is £l, which is inclusive of medici
O'
m
X'h
Barry’s
THE
An elegant dress
ing. exquisitely per
fumed remove's, all
impuritifes’ from the
p, prevents baldness and gray hair and
causes the hair io grov* Thick. Soft' ami
Beautiful Infallible foj curing, eruptions
of the skin, djse&seS'Of the glands, museles
and interments, and relieving outs, burns
bruisqs., Sprlips; &’ c .
Barry’9 Pearl Cream
Imparth Co the darkest skin a clear, natural
whitq, tinged wilj£.the' , ( i ai'otesi rose blu'sh.
It speedily fetnoves wrinkles, freckles sun
biirq and tan. tmd faded" cjbeek
With youthful bloom and beauty.1
Barry's Hair Dye.
rut,UR in two forms, with and without
a preparation Witliddufhe- preparation
gradually colors the hair any shade desired
frona a light hrow.n Cq. a black With the
preparation, instantly colors’ the-hair ana-
tural jehblack the moment it Is applied.
Caution- None of these preparations gen-
hme without the trade mark of Barclay
& Co , New York, afflxhd to etuph bottle.
A BLESSING IN EVERY FAMILY.
olloway-s Pills and ointment.
—r- there is not a country in the civilised world whore
e healing virtues of-thes n grand medicines have not been
cognised by tliousands of sufferers. In all the ordinary
reeZntL?* h J‘‘n an ; t X. the * r be,ll ' flcent is at once
recognised. 1’idlest directions are supplied for their use
n every IF YOU SUFFER, TRY THEM Man*
factored only at 70 New Oxkord-st., London. p ur .
chasers shonkl ! °° k to the Label on the Boxes and Pots
puriouH * rCSS 19 n0t 523 0xfol " cl ‘ strecti > London, they arc
OONG SHAN TEA HOUSE
N O W O P E N.
Quong Tart & Co.’s
extensive new premises
(Nearly opposite Theatre Royal).
FIRST-GLASS GRIT.I, s
a
u
X
G
C
0
P
\
s
V
As well as all kinds of Refreshments, may
be obtained from 7.30 a.m. to 11.30 p.m,
CUP OF DELICIOUS TEA.
ICED DRINKS OF ALL KINDS, &o.
The rooms are splendidly furnished and
ntted up. In addition to the large and
well - appointed Refreshment Rooms,
gentlemen will find on the Second Floor
.Commodious and Comfortable Smoking
and Conversation Rooms, furnished with
Chess, Draughts, &c., &o.
, TO THE LADIES,
yn the First Floor will Co found Nice
t mate Room for Ladies, convenient for
Writing, Reading, ' &0., also Retiring
tiooms and Lavatory, with both hot and
cold water laid on. Inspection Invited.
8
O
N
G
T
A
R
T
&
f
t
Finos* Teas imported -Packets £lb. and
Upwards supplied. Orders.' promptly at-
tended to.
IS7 KINO STHMMT, SYDNEY,
Medical.
A WONDERFUL MEDICINE.
Beecham’s Pills
PATENT
PILLS.
Ate universally admitted
to be worth a Guinea
Box for bilious
Arid nervous disorders,
Such aS \Vina arid plain iri
the stdniaoh, sitik head-
ache, giddiness, fulness
and swelling after meals,
dizziness, and drowsiness,
cold chills, flushings of
heat, loss of appetite,
shortness of breath, cos-
tiveness) se'irvy, blotches
tin the skin, disturbed
sleep, frightful dreams,
and all nervous and trem-
bling, sensations, &c. The
first dose will give relief
T 1 ill I vi , fced . feo try dile boi "of "these
ruis, and they \Vill be agkri owl edged td be
Worth a, Guinea a Bo*.
/ eilla ] 0S of all a ffes these Pills are invaluable,
Print v them car, T off all humors, and
it tha L ls required - Nb female should
without Thebe is ho Uledicirie th be fdiitid
ohstn.nHK BEfiCHAM’S K lhL * for ieilioving ally
, i re B' u j al ' of the systeni. If takeh ac-
commjr to the directions given with each box they will
htnUh' 6B^ 1 ® f £ ial , eS of all ages to sound and robust
tllriru 11118 ? as be ? n l’ l ' ov ed h>’ thousands who have
tiled them, and found the benefits which are ensured by
niur use.
_ f ?? r v stomach, impaired digestion and all disorders
hi th °y aot like “ MAGIC,” and a few doses will
„ti oun ? to work wonders upon the. most important
Sf W the human machine, They, strengthen the
, system ’ res t° r e the long-lost complexion,
ring back the keen edge of appetite, and arouse into ac-
tion with the ROSEBUD of health the whole physical
energy of the human frame. These are “ FACTS ” testified
continually by members of all classes of society ; and
one of the best guarantees to the nervous and debilitated
mi-?“\ 8 v, Pllls have tlle la rgest sale of any patent
medicine in the world.
Beecliam’s Magic Cough Pills.
As a remedy for Coughs in general, Asthma, Bronchial
Affections, Hoarseness, Shortpess of Breath, Tightness
a ll d Oppression of the Chest, Wheezing, &0., these Pills
stand unrivalled. They are the best ever offered to the
public and will speedily remove that sense of oppression
and difficulty of breathing which nightly deprive the
patient of rest. Let aiiy person give Beecham’s Couuu
Pills a trial and the most violent Cough will in a
short time be removed.
Prepared only and sold wholesale and retail by the pro-
prietor, Thomas Beeoham, Chemist, St. Helens, Lancashire,
nf’} and , . in boxes at ls - 1 2' 1 - 2s. 9d. each.—Sold by
all Druggists and Patent Medicine Dealers everywhere.
N.B.—Full directions are given with each box.
CONSULT
■f
CORE & HOGG
H-
THE EMINENT
SPECIALISTS,
On all Diseases cSTthe Genito-Urlnary Organs
Nei’vous Diseases, and Private Com(jlalnts,
1, CORBETT’S BUILDINGS, corner of George
and Elizabeth Streets, Brisbane.
COI.BULTATIONB FREE, PERSONALLY OR SY ufe++Eß.
Box 88&.P.O.) Book sent on receipt of 2d. stamp.
Prof. R. T. SELBY
Is considered to be the most Suecessful Practi-
tioner in the Australian colonies. All sufferers
should read the Doctor’s most unique work o
Nervous, Private and other Diseases. Pi
Advice on Marriage is worth its weight in golf
Send your full address, and we will send (pos
free) One Copy. Write to Prof. R. T. SELBY
Cleveland Street, Surry Hill, SYDNEY.
P. C NICHOLLS & Co.
WHOLESALE
Confectioners & Pastrycooks*
City Buildings:
730 George Street, 730
HAYMAPaitET.
Steam Works :
617, 619, 621, 539, 541 HARRIS STREET
Wedding Cakes, &c., Made to Order.
E P P S’ S
GRATEFUL—COMPOSTING
COCOA.
Dr WESTCOTT’S amenorrhoea
j ILLS for Ladies, when taken for a few
days before, quickly correct all irregularities
from whatever cause arising ; 2s. 9d. and 4s (id
by post 3s. and ss. W. H. SOUL and CO., 190
J ift-atreet, Sydney, Agents.
WALTER ZEE OPE,
General Merchant & Commission Agent,
199 SUSSEX STREET, SYDNEY.
CONSIGNMENTS of all Produce, Live Stock, etc
' received and realised in the best markets. Accouii
Sales and Proceeds remitted the day after sale. Order
executed for all Goods from Sydney at Lowest Wholcsal.
Prices
Speciality.- Pure-bred and Pedigree Stock of all de
icnptions Bought or Sold on Commission. All oommunl
cat ions referring to Pure-bred Poultry and Eggs for Settinc
to be addressed as usual to WALTER HOPE, Bonnyriirc
Prize Poultry Farm, Liverpool, N.S.W.
QPJSCIAL NOTICE, —The Sydney Bulletin.
K 7 Tasmanian Edition Publishers, FITZ
GERALD BROS. Subscription (payablestrictly
in advance), Six Shillings and Sixpence per quar
ter, or One Pound per annum.
The Bulletin will bo on Sale every Friday at
(he Office, George Street, Launceston, or from tho
Runners in the street.
Business Announcements
The bank of new Zealand.
Sydney Bkanchks:
64 PITT STREET, and 538 GEORGE STREET.
Paid-up Capital £1,125,000
The Bank has Agents in all the principal cltie
throughout the United States of America am
Canada, and can offer special facilities for dealini
m Bullion, Bills of Exchange, Commercial am
Travellers’ Letters of Credit.
Drafts issued and Bills collected on most favour
able terms, at rates which can be ascertained or
application.
N, F. GIBLIN, Manager
I JrieadL! Read
“ THE BULLETIN’S ”
History of Botany Bay
By Arthur Gay 11.
Profusely Illustrated by The Bulletin’s well-
known Artists,
L. HOPKINS and PHIL MAY.
Price « One S Shilling
Per post, Is. 3d;
WHOLESALE AaßStfS :
Victoria: A. Benjamifa, 321 tittle Collins-sL, Melbburti
Melbourne: bordon & Gotcli;
Brisbane: J. H. Thompson, Bookseller, George-street.
Adelaide; Neville & Co.
Tasmanian: Fitzgerald Bros., George-street, Launceston.
“What is Howe without a Picture?”
Xj. BEENASCONI,
(Late R. Smith)
Elite Carver, Gilder, and Picture Frame Maker,
159 Clarence Street Only, SYDNEY
(near Central Coflee Palace).
Plush Work a Speciality. Mounts Cut to any Design.
T> eittbnberg & CO.
IMPORTERS,
81 Clarence St., Wynyard Square.
furniture, Mirrors, Oleographs, and Mouldings.
J. SITTERLIN,
FROM PARIS,
ladies’ Hairdresser. Wigmaker, Sc Perfumer,
25 SYDNEY ARCADE, SYDNEY.
HISTORICAL AND FANCY HAIRDRESSING A
SPECIALTY.
Manufacturer of All Kinds of Theatrical
and Street Wigs,
Aimiioniaied t(uiniiie,
The most efficient Hair Lotion, to prevent prema-
ture baldness.
Sitterlm's Vegetable Hair-dye,
The only Hair-dye in the colonies to restore Light
Hair to its natural colour. All shades.
Success G-uaranteed.
MANUFACTURING HATTERS
GEORGE STREET
SYDNEY
IMPORTERS OF AUTRE
NEWESTSHAPES.
And at ALBERT STREET, BRISBANE.
AUCH'S
<RC
CO
THE BEST
IN THE WOSIO
s
9
* V 9/
/IIiCH
INC
fA
*/
FO
s
MANUFACTURED ©V \ J
I fj <J»M£S CHM/VOb JKzrdocrrS'
VgStSoU. Irt/ alt Saj»C&\4 ft SA'reAerfifro J
Business Announcements.
■JiHE THREE GREAT LIGHTS!
££2 Needles Patent Gas-making Machine;
*T Pat S- nt Safet Y Kerosene Lamp;
And the New Era Portable Gas Lamp,
■> 1 ! >( ‘ larvey Lamp has been adopted by the
Railway Commissioners for lighting the Sydney
trains. We were awarded the Highest Order of
Merit and Special Mention by experts at the
late Melbourne Exhibition for our lighting
mediums. Over 0000 Harvey Lamps are in use
in this colony, and for all lighting purposes are
giving universal satisfaction. These Lamps can
bo seen on one of the North Shore ferry-boats
and are suitable for all classes of vessels. Th
Inventor offers £'2oo to anyone producing as goot
a Kerosene Burner.
Patentees for Australasia:
H. T. Smith & Co., 494 Kent St. South, Sydney
14 Arcade, Adelaide, S.A.; Argent Street, Broken Hill;
Parkside Iron Works, Melbourne.
—THE—
SYDNEY SOAP & CANDLE GO,
Limited,
manufacturers of
Stearine and Paraffin Candles,
HOT 4 COLD WATER SOAP
Of every Description
Glyeerine, Lubricating, Machine, Cloth and
ifeatsfoot Gila,
——The only Genuine and Origin#!—=•
Magic Cleanser Cold Water Soap,
-To be Had at all Grocers and Storekeepers.
CJpfold’s Tree Pest Exterminator,
Its Effects are Marvellous!
U. HILDER,
BOOT UJ’PFII MANUFACTURER
IMPORTER OF
ENGLISH AND FOREIGN LEATHER,
Elastic Web, Grindery, *te„
Wholesale and Retail Leather Merchant
539 GEORGE STREET, SYDKEY.
—THE—
Art Furnishing Warehouse.
BEARD, WATSON & CO.,
361 George Street, SYDNEY,
Direct attention to their Magnificent Stock of
Carpets, Floorcloths, Linoleums,
And other Floor Coverings, in the
NEWEST DESIGNS A ARTISTIC COLOURINGS.
Aid’ Decorations, Upholstery Work and
Window Draping a Speciality
All Orders executed hy a Staff of Experienced
Workmen, and Special Attention given to the carry -
ing out of Customers’ wishes with punctuality and
promptitudes
Hotels,
HOTEIhI
W arniara bool, Victoria.
THIS old-established and well-known Family
and Commercial Hotel combines all the
requirements of a First-Class Hotel with home
comforts.
It is in full view of the sea and within a short
distance of the picturesque scenery of the Hopkiu’s
River, which affords the finest Rod and Ely Fishing
in the colony.
Arrangements made-for the Hire of Rowing and
Fishing Boats and Fishing Tackle. Bait, etc.,
supplied. AW Good Shooting in the immediate
neighbourhood.
It is also within Two Minutes' walk of the Hot
and Cold Sea Water Baths, which are unsur-
passed in the colonies.
Livery and Lolling Stables.
Booking Office for Cobb & Co.’s Coaches. Thoa.
Cook & Sons’ Hotel Coupons taken.
GEOEGE W. CLAEE - Proprietor.
THE GEORGE HOTEL
(opposite Railway Station, near Baths),
St. Kilda, Victoria.
First-class Family & Commercial Hotel.
I *3T Ecr particulars, apply to
T l .
WIMPOLB,
PROPRIETOR.
n
OT E L
VA L H
Esplanade,
ST. KILDA, VICTORIA,
Facing Beach, close to Pier and Baths Ten
minutes from Station.
H. MOONEY .... Proprietor.
LIVERY LETTING STABLES ATTACHED.
Telephone 682.
First-class Accommodation for Visitors
JONG’S IMPERIAL HOTEL
TOOWOOMBA, QUEENSLAND.
Acknowledged the Best Hotel on the Darling
Downs. First-class Accommodation.
Private Suites First Glass Sample Rooms.
Conveyance Meets Every Train.
JOHN LONG - - Late of New Zealand.


s
Corner Queen Street and Flinders Lane,
MELBOURNE.
fiHERCANTJI,E AUCTIONEERS,
House, Land, and Estate Agents,
«r
T:
IT-
m
S
:
r;
m
m
jj
Advances made against shipments of Mcrcliandiso
and Colonial Produce.
Daily Sales held at their Commodious
New Booms.
. OUTDOOR
Furniture &T Land Sales Conducted.
Branch
Offices
32 Chapel St., Prahran.
2. Albert St., Windsor.
Bkancii
Offices
IP, Efc,
IMPORTER OF
IHES, x SPIRITS, x BEEES, x ETC.,
George, and Gipps Streets* Sydney.
SPECIALITIES:
John Jameson’s Dublin Whisky (5 to 10 years old); W. Jameson’s, Dunvillk’s Rob’s and Wise’s (bid Cork) Whiskies.
Hknnbssy’s, Mautell’S and Sazkrac’s Brandies (5, 10, 15 and 21 years old).
The Choicest and Oldest SCOTCH WHISKIES (in wood), Imported and Bottled by P.lt.L.
The Best Port and Sherry Wines and Champagnes. All Brands of Colonial Wines. The leading brands
of Bottled Ale and Stout, arriving by monthly steamers.
Prince of Wales Hotel, 778 & 780 George Street.
anti jingle Bottle l)Epai|tniEnts, 283 anil 284* ([Oniigc-st., syilncy.
SEND FOR A PRICE LIST.
FIRST-CLASS LADIES’ REFRESHMENT ROOT & LAVATORY,
GIPPS STREET (Opposite A. Hordern & Sons.)
)x(
Produce Stores, Gipps St., and Darlinglmrst Hoad.
HEAD OFFICE: GIPPS STREET (Next Prince of Wales Hotel).
bkm
:r • r.
m
UNnErw'
FURNITURE
WAREHOUSES,
York Street, Wynyard Square, Sydney,
Now supply the General Public as well as the Trade.
10,000 HedstdaSs,
IFi'oaML IGs. (Sell. "to £uP «
p
~N
.
- ; :V1
5.
m
wmmiszM
-d, 571 ><s
AUCTIONEERS & ESTATE AGENTS
MP \m fiH f..si
. .'I.. i)3 I *.. v ; ; »
»
jo
S3®.
If T
.A « « ** w w w, »
General Auctioneers and li tate Agents,
I’olllns Street, MellMinrnc, a«<l 1* t'lmpel
Street, South ¥arra
n^E 1, ©3)03^5.'53'fci.C33a.53
Are to bo found in the “Liglit and Life,’
for the Speedy Cure of Nervous Debility and
Kindred Diseases, &c. A copy of this book will
be sent Free, scaled, for Six Penny Stamps.
Address —
S. WARD k CO., SYDNEY PHARMACY,
76 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY. M
use
m i
m m g
Kiintlnglou Mill.
know .«* • I’n nips
MINING & HYDRAULIC ENGINEERS
AND
GENERAL' MACHINERY MERCHANTS,
&c,,
&c.
&c.
187
And
& 189 Street,
SYBKTEY, PJ.S.'W.
SAM FRANCISCO, OAUFORMEA.
Rock Breakers
Inos
Wc.miiistuoiisc ling
"jpjiL. cs- £s ss, ~ ’iE«i3SftcxTESi> #
Hay St., Haymarket, Sydney,
ENGINES,
2 to 50 h.p.
BOILERS,
1 to 35 h.p.
STEAM PUMPS
For all purposes.
cminm pips,
2" to 40" discharge.
HAND PUMPS.
Saw Benches.
XaES/fcIXOES.
bsiiuni ludmsL
&c,, &o.
r. “
h'";
- /JST-3
m
■Sr^S^Jk
S sc*? JgS
ran/
m
■ ■ ■>
t,, ■■:. . ■ <\ifafy?i:.
lIIEW ENGINES.
Hauling Engines.
Battery Engines.
Saw-mill Engines.
asi-istL ill.
r'BTGrI'MES
FOR -I;
Electric Lighting.
Vertical Boilers.
MuHitukiar luilw
« , «ISKI»ES B®JINK'S.
&c., &0.
w • !f n nl fhn«v renu inner Machinery of any kind for any purpose, large or small, to write for particulars and prices. From the extent of our stock we are generally able to give immediate delivery.
Wo invite al •- 1 o Visitors, whether buyers or nt, are always welcome to iuspoet the magnificent display in our new and extensive oliovviooms,
133
<Be
13 5
1",
HAYM'ARKBT,
8 YDMB TT.
