

>• ’
Street,
UNSIVALLED ACCOMMODATION.
rat«
P
*
m
v^sa
Patent Hammoquette Reclining 1 Chair
Comfort, Convenience and Eu ’ability is the Desideratum.
■):(■
Patentee :
. 33. jrOT^ESS,
C BRIDGE STKEJvI',
SYDFEY, 3ST.S.W
COMFORT FOll THE WEARY; THE INVALID’S FRIEND; AND A HA\ EN Ol
' ):( , % -
THE CHAIR OF THE AG— I
-):(■
p .. T ., vr . • Parliament House, Melbourne, 32th .Tune, 1888.
‘ Dear Sir, 1 have much pleasure in stating that the nine chairs T purehased'frum.you have given me every satisf act mil. -
Yours.truly, M H DAVIES, M.L.A., Speaker Legislative Assembly.
Ext;
national 1
■act fmm
Inhibition,
Svtjnry M irnixu Hkkalo of 15th August, 1888, referring to the exhibits in the Centennial Inter -
Melbourne savs “ A little more to the Westward, the visitor finds a platform on which ate pUcfdl
a number of Hammoquette Reclining Chairs, one of the latest things from that ingeni l( ‘
class of Americans who devote their lives to the invention of objects which shall mimstei
to the fastidious tastes of the invalid, or meet the luxurious demands of the weal h>.J h«*
llammoquette Chair, constructed mainly of Airier lean ash,
is shown by R. B. Jones, G Bridge-street, Sydney, and can at will, be made tomsM me -
great variety of shapes. It is difficult to conceive a moie valuable addition to a sick loom,
library, study, or verandah, than the Hammoquette Chair must prove.
.
-i-j
mm
W,
K
■■ •• ; ' ■
m
mmmv
e MUTUAL Limited,
Opposite the FLINDERS STREET TERMINUS, MELBOURNE.
The advantages of the Mutual Store are now offered to the general public, and Visitors to Melbourne will have all their requirements supplied from under One Roof.
The following are the. Departments of the Store i-thitupml Dressed Provisions. Poultry and Game. Grain and Fuel. Wine, Beer and Spirits. Stationery and Fancy Goods. Tron-
d’v ; Generaf Furnishing and Electroplate. Boots and Shoes. Woollens and Tailoring.
mongory : General furnishing and J'.iectropiat.e. jsoots ana nnoesi woonens uuu J»«orm B . Gentlemen’s Mercery. | urnitnre and Carpets. China and Glass. I>i a]>< i> . (omi.d. Ilosaij
and Gloves. Millinery and Dressmaking. Mantles. Underclothing. Silks and Dresses. Manchester. T ■ 11 „
W Refreshment Rooms, where Light Luncheon and Afternoon Tea are provided. m Victorias, Waggonettes, etc., from Company s.own L.vtiy btab.les
.m.,1 .iHmiit.ii ; a ....ul 1,, Country and Stitton Giiders. Cash Oustomeks removing their own Goods are entitled to a Discount of 5 per cent. Open to the Public foi Cash Purchases.
&
Howard's Colonist M'lirrow HI
I’loiigli.—(B./.0.1j)
Howard's Single-Furrow I»i{
Plough.-(0.L.)
Sim
Tlxo Piougrn or tine Times!
ELOIJGHING AND HARROWING IN ONE ACT.
Sliare Points only cost 6cL, and are Reversible.
Chai'f-Outtkrs, Horse Gears and every kind of Agricultural Implements
IIST STOCK.
|3f“ Enquirers please quote this paper.
280 i PITT STREET, SYDNEY
(Corner of Pitt and Bathurst Streets).
1
m
m
■%. w/
hpw.
—THE—
LON DON «= SYDNEY
COMPANY.
409— KENT STREET—4O9
(Two doors from Market Street),
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
—IMPORT—
XX_ X <3- H-C LASS ILTDIAU Sc CHILTA
""~TEAS~
Packed in 201 b. and 401 b. Packages, and delivered at Is. 6d., Is, 9d. and 2s. per Ib-
(Oarriage Free) to any Railway Station or Port in New South Wales.
A Single Package at Wholesale Price. Correspondence invited and promptly attended to.
The Bulletin
Yol. 11—No. 522.]
[Saturday, February 15, 1810.


Sni
nltf
IlMi
S.
pV!
i i
iKii/IAP'MS?
K2S|pj
i
o
X
ţ
50
r-
iQi
DIXSONS
Dr. RIDGE’S
FOOD
FOB INFANTS AND INVALIDS
Has an enormous sale in England
and is now being introduced into the
Colonies.
Every Storekeeper should get a supply
as every Wise mother will certainly
use it.
DR. RIDGE S ROYAL FOOD MILLS,
LONDON, ENGLAND.
is®
oSSW^-%;:
■ SATIN
y XADSE 3 ’ .
i&m
! TRUNKSIfcC*® j
/XJTfrnimtb
BOSTON
BROWN’S
SATIN
POLISH
—FOR—-
LADIES’ AND CHILDREN’S
BOOTS AND SHOES.
Awarded hiyhest honors at
Phila., 1870 Melbourne, 1880
Berlin, 1877 Frankfort, 1881
Paris, 1878 Amsterd'm ISBB
New Orleans, 1884-85, and wherever
exhibited.
Paris medal on every bottle.
Beware of Imitations.
This Blacking is in liquid form and is applied to shoes
or other articles of leather by means of a sponge, attached
to Hie cork by a wire, so that the blacking can be used by
anyone without soiling the fingers. No polishing' brush
is required. It dries immediately after being applied, and
will not soil the most delicate clothing.
Sold largely in Australia through Commission Merchants
and Dealers.
B. F. BROWN & CO.,
Boston, U.S.A., M’f’gs.
Brittenberg & CO.
• IMPORTERS,
81 Clarence St,, Wynyarrt Square.
Furniture, Mirrors, Oleographs, and Mouldings.
ENGLISH PERFUMERY
surpasses all others for its natural
fragrance.
yvTKiisrsoisr’s
Eau de Toilette de Londres.
Unsurpassed for refreshing and soften-
ing the skin, and an exceedingly choice
Perfume for the Handkerchief. An en-
tirely new article, prepared exclusively
by the Inventors.
o}all Dealers and of the Manufacturers—
J, & E. ATKINSON,
24, OLD BOND STREET, LONDON
Trarto Mark—“ White l!c?c’'on “Golden
Trade Mark—“ White Itcsc" on “Golden
Lyre,” with Address in lull.
T. LAWLESS, June.,
37 MARKET STREET,
SYDNEY,
Fruit Mercliant.
WILLIAMS’
AUSTRALIAN YEAST POWDER
IS THE ONLY PERFECT SUBSTITUTE FOR YEAST.
. 1 'i : (“ "
Bread, Tea OsaJsies, Pastry, Scg. 9
AUK
——Light, Wholesome and Digestible
WHEN MADE WITH
Williams’ Australian, ITeast Powder.
FOR THE TOWN, THE BUSH, AND THE SEA.
Beware of Worthless Imitations. Sold IB TIES at 6d. the Half-Pound.
CLARENDON HOTEL, MANLY,
The Brighton of New South Wales.
AT the CLARENDON HOTEL, Banquets, . Suppers, Private Dinners, Evening Parties, etc., are
served on the Shortest Notice in the Large Dining Hall. Besides having a most rcchcrchc
Dinner, you can enjoy from the balconies the magnificent view of the sea and surrounding country;
here also you can have good company, good wines—in fact, everything that can possibly make one
comfortable can be found at this really first-class hotel. Fishing and Picnic Parties provided. Table
de Hole at One o’clock daily and Sundays. _ No expense is spared by Mrs. Kilmxnstke to make her
\ isitors comfortable and her Hotel the best in the colony.
]Vf r n- TTTT Clareudozi Hotel,
Opposite OCEAN BEACH, MANLY.
JOHN BXJCKHA.M:,
449 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
Tents. Tarpaulins, Wool" Dray and Waggon Covers
Creased or oiled), Canvas Water Bottles, Coolers, Whim
Buckets, Horse Rugs, Nose Bags, Oiled Loin Cloths. Send
to or call at
449 ELIZABETH STREET, MELBOURNE
(Oldest Established House in the Trade).
SURVEYORS TENTS A SPECIALITY.
68 Hunter Street, and 8 Bligh Street,
SYDNEY.
IB 1 . SBIEOEDEB
LIVERY, BAIT, LET-OUT AND COMMIS-
SION STABLES.
Horses and Vehicles of every description for
Sale or Hire; also, good reliable Ladies or Gentle-
men’s Hacks.
wIIjXj IA M === CARGILL,
Photographic Stock Importer,
2 6 MARKET STREET, SYDNEY.
D
vl/
\1/A-
<1>:
/x
Q> H VS
(S^sxAT
Offices
O/,
vlr.
Mil du r a Victoria.
Melbourne __ _ Chafiey Irrigation Offices, Swans tea Street.
Renmark South Australia,.
Adela i DE Cavendish Chambers, Grenfell Street.
England. J. E Mathew Vincent,! Chief Commissioner)
Cornwall Buildings, 35 Queen Victoria St,
w i n m n n m tr r*
Treacle! 1 C?
PRINCE OF WALES’ HOTEL,
St. Klilcia, Victoria.
Within Five Minutes from STATION, and One Minute from ESPLANADE and BATHS.
MRS. KONG MENG ... ... ... Proprietress.
m
sjpBEsgl
S IV,
>' :;
m
Purchasers should see that the Label on every bottle of the original
WORCESTERSHIRE SAUCE
bears the Signature, thus
Ask for Lea 8c Perkins’ Sauce, and see Name on Wrapper, Label, Bottle and Stopper.
Wholesale and for Export by the Proprietors, Worcester ; Crosse $ Blackwell, London, sc., so. ,
and by Grocers and Oilmen throughout the World.
—Everyone should Read—
BULI^ESTIBar’S
“ HISTORY of BOTANY BAY,
3y ARTHUR GAYT .T
Profusely Illustrated by “ The Bulletin’s” well-known Artists, L. Hopkins and Phil May.
IP frits©
Agents— Victorian:
ONE SHILLING; per Post, Is. 3d.
May be had from Agents, or direct from “ The Bulletin ” Office.
A. Benjamin, 321 Little Collins Street East, Melbourne; Tasmanian: Fitzgerald Brothers, George Street,
Launceston; Queensland: J, H. Thompson, George Street, Brisbane.


BK ALK <sc CO.’S
NEW WAREHOUSE
I
■ ■
AND CHIEF OFFICES,
482* 484* & 486 Qeorge Street*
|
REVOLUTIONISING
the PIA.RTO TRA-DB.
Messrs. Beale Si -Co.'s Great Enterprise.
THERE can be no questioning-the fact that the Piano
Trade of these Colonies has undergone a complete
revolution during the last five years ; and to that desirable
change certainly no firm has contributed more than
Messrs. Beale and Company. During the time high prices
continued the trade was held by a few, and hundieds of
homes now rendered attractive by the glorious influence
of music scarce could dream of becoming the ultimate
owners of the instrument which has done so much to
cheer and to refine our modern domestic life.
When Beale and Company commenced business they
bad quietly gauged this condition of affairs in Australia,
and they began operations on a plan which could alone
work out successively in a mammoth undertaking such as
thev proposed. With the Australian selling branch of
their enterprise they resolved to combine the manufacture
of Pianos in Germany—the centre of the world s trade f °*
that instrument. But the experts sent out here for the
purpose of fully determining what was best fitted for
colonial requirements reported that it was essential to
have a special make of piano to suit our climate a n in-
strument as different as those made for Europe as Aus-
tralia is different from the Old World. The result of this
was the production of the staunchest pianoforte of
modern times —the iron-framed “ Hapsburg.” The in-
strument is regarded by the most capable experts of
Europe as the Production of the Age combmmg as
it does every feature of the highest class instrument with
the maximum of strength and durability, and it was placed
on the market at prices much under what ,?™sjmd
manufacturers had previously demanded it
took almost endless trouble and long, patient labour to
produce the design of the “Inimitable Hapsburg yet once
produced the demand grew so rapidly, and has become so
great, that the enterprising originators are able to out-
distance all competitors for both quality and price. The
peculiar construction of the iron frame, t , he ex ° ( ? .f lc , < i
of the wires and the unique movements have, with all
other factors, contributed to this splendid success, ho
other instrument possesses to the same_ degree such rich
full clear, bell-like tones, so noticeable in the Haps-
burg,” especially in the higher grades, while strength
solidity and imperviousness to climatic influences have
been so well looked to that whether on the coldest, oleak-
est spots of New Zealand or our own Monaro Plains, or in
the hottest of our Western and Northern areas, this
wonderful pianoforte not only maintains, but improves its
tone and consequent value even after years of use. And
it must continue so. The genius and experience of the
mechanical world in this_ branch of art are embodied in
this one instrument the inimitable * Hapsburg and
the sales to-day give ample evidence of the repute in which
it is held. Beale & Company have placed the
“Hapsburg” with thousands of families in Australia.
Homes in the far-distant back blocks, and homes in the
city, are not only enlivened but are made purer and better
through the influence of its music. The firm resolved to
do a large trade by selling these superior instru-
ments at prices and on terms demanded for the
lower grades, and success has crowned their efforts.
Thev do by far the largest business, and hold the
largest stocks in the colonies. They give their best
efforts to suit the circumstances and requirements of
every customer, and they supply for cash or on an easy
system of Time-payment which they have made peculiarly
their own The correspondence department is of itself a
huge undertaking ; every mail brings its burden of letters.
From the great landowner, from the rich squatter, and
the astute merchant they come. And they came too
from clergymen, from doctors and solicitors, from civil
servants, and from the struggling selector, the tradesman,
the workingman ; for fathers and mothers of every giade
and class now recognise the influence which music exerts
for good in the life"of the home. And every writer re-
ceives courteous attention and immediate response.
Hapsburg Double Iron-framed Pianos
Possess the following Advantages —
Igt —The wires are of a very high quality and in-
tensely sensitive ; their vibrations, reverberated
by a sounding board of special construction, aie
clear and bell-like, instead of the muffled, tin-
kettly, or metallic sounds so common in cheap
Pianos. , . ,
2nd.— Being double oblique the strings are of a
greater length and fuller tone than in the old
straight-strung Pianos.
3rd. —The action is perfect check repeater, and is
made of pencil cedar, an expensive material,
and best for resisting climatic changes.
4th.— All the Hapsburg Pianos are Trichord.
Bth. —They are all seven Octaves.
6th.—They have consolidated Iron Frames of
great strength, thus resisting the rapid muta-
tions of a tropical climate, whereby tuning is
only required at long intervals.
7th.—They oppose obstacles to the inroads of cock-
roaches, silver-fish, mice, &c. They have wire
gauze backs which cannot be eaten by vermin,
and other unique improvements devised for
similiar ends. _
Bth.— The Felts are Clinched on the Hammers,
instead of being fastened only by glue, as is the
case with nearly every Piano except the Haps-
burg. . , T,T
9th.—They have brass or nickel-faced Wrest-
planks, instead of the old-fashioned perishable
10th. —Rust is guarded against, wherever possible,
by the substitution of bronze for other metals.
11th.—The outer cases are handsome in design,
and of durable beautiful woods; they can be
had in walnut, or in walnut and gold, or in
ebony and gold.
12th. —No matter in what part of the colony you
live, we will supply you with a Hapsburg Piano
upon easy terms of payment. No charge will be
made for packing or for packing cases.
Hapsburg Pianos. Haydn Organs.
Photographs and Price-lists by post or from our
own travellers everywhere.
Business Announcement*.
HIGH CLASS
Buggies,
P haetons j
Wag’g'ous,
ax&d H%!mOSS*
WILLIAM FLEMING
22 & 24 CLARENCE ST., SYDNEY.
See Signature in
Blue Ink across
the Label thus:—
0
#
ť
EtICALYPTL OtL-sa.
COLEMAHE*SfIHS
m
THE TREE OF LIFE.
rttfSßfgKSfi'flg-
The only pnre Encalyptc in the Vi orld.
VirroßY Ointments
AWARDED Gold Medal Adelaide Jubilee
Exhibition. First Prize Great Centennial
Exhibition, Sydney. The only known CURE for
Asthma. Bronchitis, Consumption, Pleurisy.
Colds Coughs, and all affections of the Chest and
Lungs; also, for Gout, Rheumatism, Sciatica,
etc Our VICTORY OINTMENT stands with-
out a rival for Bad Legs, Bad Breasts, Cancers,
Tumours, and skin diseases of all kinds. Also,
manufacturers of the Eucalypte Pills, Eucalypte
Hair Restorer, Eucalypte Soap, and our world-
famed Eucalypte Honey is the best preparation
before the public for young Children and aged
neople Also, makers of the Eucalypte Lozenges
for the Voice. Manufactory-CooTAMUNDRA.
Sydney Wholesale Depot-251 Elizabeth Street
Posted to any part of the Colonies. Sold Every
where. Beware of Imitations.
HUNGARIAN
NATURAL APERIENT WATEJL
For Constipation, Lndigastloa
ŧ
AMS
AU.
Stomach & Liver Complaints
OF ALL CHEMISTS IN AUSTRALASIA
The Natural Mineral Waters of
{STATE
f
SPRINGS.)
GRANDE-GRILLE— For Affections of ths
Livei, Biliary Organs, «c.
CELEStIHS.— Fcr the Kidneys, Gravel, Gout
Rheumatism, Diabetes, &s
HOPIXAL. —For Stomach Complaints.
HAUTERIYE. —An excellent T able Wat»a.
OF ALL CHEMISTS IN AUSTRALASIA
IgT IN THE PRESS,
“.A. SHANTY,”
AND OTHER
Australian Tales and Sketches
In Prose and Verse,
By “BULLETIN” WRITERS.
Business Announcements.
jossFumn Mm.
By Royal Letters Patent.
The Most Useful Ointment in the World,
Bar None.
PREMIER OINTMENT is the SOUTHERN
HEMISPHERE. But. as many new arrivals
have lately made New South Wales their home, it
may be as well to let them know that there is such
an article as JOSEPHSON’S OINTMENT purely
the production of the colony, composed of wild plants
indigenous to the country and nowhere else, the
principal of which is the EUCALYPTUS, now
so famed thoroughout the world.
Josephson’s Ointment is purely vegetable, and
Guaranteed Free from all Poisonous
Qualities. No Artificial Colouring, as the
"Green colour is extracted from the pure green
plants, which defy imitation.
WHO SHOULD SUFFER FROM PILES,
when one application will relieve you?
Read this letter and Try for Yourselves
Messrs. E. Row and Co. ,
Dear Sirs, —I have tried your Josephson s Oint-
ment for Piles, and have found much relief from
using it. You are at liberty to use this if you feel
disposed.
I remain, yours, etc.,
L. P. SOLOMONS, Herald Office.
STUDY HEALTH BY TAKING ROW’S
STEANE’S BITTERS.
The great demand throughout the colony for
these pure Bitters shows they are superior to all
others and equalled by none.
Facts Speak Louder than Words.
Read this sworn testimony from a well-known
citizen; —
Statutory Declaration.
“I, George Hewett, do hereby solemly and
sincerely declare as follows ;
“ That I feel it a duty I owe to the public to
state that I have been suffering for many yearn
from weakness of the stomach, so called IN DI-
GESTION or DYSPEPSIA, and have been cured
by my taking two or three glasses of ROW S
STEANE’S BITTERS a day in a little water, and
I hope others suffering from the same complaint
will be as speedily cured. _
“ (Signed) G. HEWETT,
“ 215 Pitt-street.
Bow’s Steane’s Wine
Is a safe and sure stimulant for the female sex or
children, for it raises and strengthens depressed
systems without producing a temporary excite-
ment to be followed by greater depression.
Persons suffering from loss of appetite and
general depression of spirits cannot do better than
takß ROW’S STEANE’S WINE.
It cannot harm you, but must do good to all
delicate persons. Young Ladies can take this
when suffering from general debility. It’s only a
pure tonic. Try it. ■-
Teetotallers will find this newly-invented
TONIC answer all the purposes of a stimulant
without its intoxicating quality. It will satisfy
the cravings of nature and create a desire for food
instead of drink. As an anti-febrile is unsur-
passed.
ROW’S
DANDELION
BITTERS.
We recommed these BITTERS to be taken
two or three times a day; a wineglassful for an
adult, smaller quantity for children.
Eor General Debility, Dyspepsia, Rheumatism,
and Cutaneous Affections.
The action of dandelion, more especially upon
the liver and kidneys, in more reliable for remov-
ing all impure secretions than any other medicinal
plant known. ... „ ,
Persons suffering from Skin diseases will tmd
these Bitters invaluable.
DIRECTIONS FOR USE.
One wineglass two or three times a day after
meals diluted with same quantity of water. Eor
young people about half the quantity twice a day.
They Purify the Blood and Liver.
See what a Medical Gentleman says
about them.
Messrs. E. Row and Co.
With thanks for forwarding me a bottle of your
Row’s Dandelion Bitters, and consider them most
excellent, and superior to many others that I have
previously tried. Yours faithfully, HENRY
CHARLES CURTIS, M.R.C.S., England.
Port Adelade, October 30, 1886.
Read an expression of thankfulness received
from the undersigned A .
“I have for many years been obliged to take
medicines of different kinds for affections of the
liver, indigestion, pain in the chest, general de-
bility, feeling of nervousness, weariness, _ great
depression of spirits, and so on, but all without
producing any beneficial effect, till at last, being
recommended to try ROW’S DANDELION
BITTERS, which, happily, I find has produced
an unexpected and wonderful effect and change
in my system, and has removed from my mind
the horrible depressed feeling and former con-
dition of bodily ailment I have so unhappily ex-
perienced for so many years.
“ I am glad of the opportunity to make known
the excellent qualities of ROW’S DANDELION
BITTERS, that those who are afflcted as I have
been may take advantage of them.
‘ ‘ I remain, dear sirs,
“Respectfully yours,
“ MARY TERRILL,
“Carlisle Cottage, Leichhardt.
“Messrs. Ed. Row and Company, Sydney.”
OOO
Hotel-keepers all keep Row’s Assorted Bitters
CONTAINING
ROW’S STEANE’S BITTERS.
ROW’S YOU’LL DO BITTERS.
ROW’S QUININE BITTERS.
ROW’S ORIENTAL BITTERS.
ROW’S DANDELION BITTERS.
BARON BERZELIUS BUCHU BITTERS.
ROW’S ASSORTED WINES.
Sole Proprietors,
EDWARD ROW L CO.,
43, 45, 47 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY


"Will be Fu.bliah.eti Shortly,
“ A GOLDEN SHANTY:
Australian Tales and Sketches in Prose and Verse
i=t y ‘Bulletin.’ Writers.
A Selection from the brightest of the original literary matter which has made The Bulletin world-famous. Price, Is. ;if 1 ’
Public Companies.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA.
THE COMING COLONY!
Everyone should Invest a Few Pounds in Land
in
PERTH,
The CAPITAL CITY OF WESTERN AUSTRALIA.
, ■» ■ .
Compared with other Australian Cities the Price
is Very Low.
The Coal, Gold and Tin Mines are attracting
much enterprise and capital to the Colony.
CITY BUILDING ALLOTMENTS,
From £1 per Foot.
BUILDING SITES adjoining the CITY
From £lO Each.
ffma.ll Deposit. Easy Terms. Discount for Cash.
Each Lot guaranteed good Building Land.
Land in Perth will increase greatly in value during
the next few years.
INQUIRY COSTS NOTHING.
Pamphlets, Marked Plans, and full information
posted to any address on application to
The Intercolonial Investment k, Limits!
96 Bathurst Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
W. JV DOUGLAS, Manager.
CHaff ! Cliaff ! CHaff!
ANOTHER NEW DEPARTURE.
The CITY PRODUCE COMPANY
Having erected the most complete and extensive
Chaff-cutting Plant in New South Wales, are in a
position to supply a ■
Single Bag of Chaff at Wholesale Prices
for CASH.
Oaten Chaff, 4/6 per cwt.h
Mixed „• 3/6 per cwt. I
Oaten „ 4/6 per cwt. j
Mixed ~ 3/6 per cwt. j
Quality
Guaranteed.
Free delivery within the city. Horse-feed of all
descriptions of best quality at lowest prices for
Cash. One trial only is requested. We guarantee
to give satisfaction.
CITY PRODUCE CO.,
Hay Street, Haymarket, SYDNEY.
=CLYDE=
mm,'mi ana mmm
WORKS,
CLYDE, near GEAYYILLE,
New South Wales.
Lead and. Silver Ores,
ALSO,
Gold Concentrates,
Purchased in any quantity.
Miners and others are invited to send Small or
Large Parcels of Ore to the above Works, which,
on being assayed, Cash Returns will be at once
remitted.
Tariff of Charges forwarded on application to
the Secretary at the Works, Clyde.
The British and New South Wales Investment
and Financial Co., Limited.
Incorporated under the Companies’ Act, 1874.
Capital, £250,000.
SvDNtY Office : 246 PITT STREET.
TJILLS DISCOUNTED and Immediate Advances granted
JD Daily. Country eommunications promptly attended
10. The following Rates of Interest are allowed for Fixed
Deposits: —
SYears .... .... 10 per cent.
12 Months .... 9 per cent.
6 Months .... .... Spercent.
3 Months .... .... 7 per cent.
With a Guaranteed Bonus on Renewals of Twelve Months
and over.
By order of the Board.
1 W. M‘DONALD. Manager.
Business Announcements. .
liM.l3o3rtia.xxt: Notice.
ANDREW KING & CO.,
Wholesale Soft Goods Importers and Warehousemen,
FLINDERS STREET, MELBOURNE,
Opposite Hobson’s Bay Railway Station.
As announced, this old-established Wholesale Warehouse will be shortly thrown open to the
general public as the
Modern Family Warehouse.
It is the intention of Andrew King & Co to secure the
their goods at such prices, and by giving such value, that the goods will be their best medium o
their endeavour to avoid exaggerated statements,
there are no exaggerated charges added to the wholesale prices to prevent f the public being supplied
in every department of drapery on the basis of “ Slanufacturer s Cost.
' Andrew King & Co. are enabled to offer their present extensive stock of general drapery at
such prices as must command the confidence of all who appreciate good value.
THE STOCK WILL BE FOUND TO CONTAIN:—
Manchester Goods (All Classes), Hress Goods,
Silks, Fancy Goods, Ribbons, Straws, &c-,
Woollens, Ready-Made Clothing,
* Hosiery, Underclothing, Umbrellas, Haberdashery,
Carpets, Engs, Mats, Linoleums, Floorcloths, &0., &0., &c-
Further Particulars at a Later Date.
andbewTUnh & CO.,
WHOLESALE IMPORTERS and SOFT GOODS WAREHOUSEMEN.
THE MODERN FAMILY WAREHOUSE.
Hotels.
-
A
HOTEL IETROPOLE,
Bent , Flxillip & Young Streets, Syaney.
—THE-
AUSTEALIAH MUTUAL
FIRE
Insurance Society.
Established ... ... 1872.
Bonuses
OF
20 per cent. Paid Annually
since 1873.
Head Office
—THE
Oldest Mutual Fire Office
in Australia.
Claims promptly and liberally
settled. Fifteen days’ grace
allowed for Renewal of Policies.
Lowest Current Rates charged.
Hon. George Thornton, M.L.C.,
Chairman.
Head Office:
Corner Pitt & King Streets,
SYDNEY.
Walter Church ... Manager-
Medical.
PULVEEMACHEE’S WORLD-
TAMED GALVANIC BELTS
FOR THE CURE OF
Nervous Exhaustion. and Debility, Sciatica,
Lumbago, Rheumatism, &c„
HAVE received Testimonials from Three
Physicians to Her Majesty the Queen and
the Leading Physicians of many London Hospi-
tals, including over Forty Members of the Royal
College of Physicians of London.
For full Price-list and particulars, see new pam-
phlet “Galvanism; Nature’s Chief Restorer of
Impaired Vital Energy.” Pamphlets Free.
Sole Agents for N.S.W.,
FROST «3c SHIPHAM
ELECTRICIANS,
474 & 587 George Street, Sydney.
Sole Agents for Victoria:
ALLISON BROS., 477 Collins-street West, Melbourne.
•fIR- SMITH, X7.S.ik.,
MEDICAL EXPERT
In PRIVATE COMPLAINTS of BOTH SEXES.
A Prompt and Safe Cure Guaranteed,
CONSULTING ROOMS:
Nos. 7 & 8 First Floor, 482 &EORGE STREET,
SYDNEY.
Hours : ... From 11 a.m. till 4 p.m.
Business Announcements.
-AUSTRALIAN—
Jollcr ||lour cmd grain ||tofe6,
GRANVILLE, N.S.W.
Sydney Office : - 173 CLARENCE STREET
(near King Street).
Brunton’s Patent Roller Flour
—AWARDED —
The Highest Order of Merit at every Competition,
AND
“Special Recommendation” of the Jurors of the
Melbourne International Centennial Exhibition,
1888-89.
UMBRELLAS
ni-SOVIREO.
DIUD Y ECONOMY
and
Have your Umbrella Frames
Re-Covered, and your
Parasols Re-Lined and made
Equal to New, at
J. SULLIVAN’S,
541 George Street,
Brickfield Hill, Sydney,
between
Liverpool & Bathurst Sts.,
Parasols made to match Cos-
tumes. Repairs neatly done.
PAPER-HANGINGS
& Paints
wallpapers from^-roll
PA
529 BathurstSt.
Brickfield Hill .
SfiK
"X" lx o xrt a, s £loss,
TOBACCO &. CIGAR IMPORTER,
27 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
(Corner of Pitt Street.)
A large stock of Genuine Havaunali Cigars, of the
choicest Brands to select from.
Sole Importer of the Celebrated “ Flor de Boulto ”
Brand of Cigars and •• Empire Cigarettes.”
Sydney Canister Works,
COLLINS STREET, SURRY HILLS,
OFF CROWN STREET.
Manufacturers of all kinds of Tins for Confectioners)
Tea Merchants, Biscuit Makers, &c., also all kinds
of Tins, round and square, for Pepper, Spice and
Baking Powder, made by improved machinery.
A “Trial Solicited.
T
Mli
(Late Gtmsler’s Cafe)
WISH their former Patrons
their new cnsine a trial.
175 pitt Street, Sydney,
»nd the Public Generally to know that their Saloons have been Entirely Reorganised, and shall be glad if they will give
y JAMES C- MAKQUAND, Manager-


The Bulletin
Vol. 11 —No. 522.
SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 15, 1890.
Price, 6d.
ţ
ť
"FEDERATION in THE -AIR IS ALL VERY WELL; BUT WHEN IT GETS INTO THE EAD, OH, LOR!"


The Bulletin
The Rational Australian Newspaper.
“Australia for the Australians.”
Proprietors : BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO.,
Limited,
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
.At 21 Pitt- street, Sydney, New South Wales,
’ TEEMS TO S ÜBS CEI BEES
(payable in advance, only).
Per Annum ... ... ... ... £lO 0
Half-yearly 0 12 6
Quarterly 0 0 6
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Macleod, Managing Director.
Literary Communications to he addressed to J. F.
Archibald.
The Editor will carefully read and acknowledge in the
'‘Correspondence” column all contributions submitted—
whether in the form of Political, Social, or other Articles,
Verse, Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects „ and not exceeding two columns in
length, or say 3000 ivords, are specially acceptable),
Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper-Clippings. All
communications will be regarded as strictly confidential.
“ The Bulletin” will return all unavailable MSS. when
‘.he address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we
iesire those sending MSS. to distinctly unde? stand that
\oe are not responsible for the preservation or transmission
if such MSS.
NOTICE.
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty Shillings
sterling— which you may pay by Post Office Order, One
Pound Note, or Stamps of any Australian colony—you
can have The Bulletin posted regularly to you every week
for a year. '
This offer is not open to residents of Sydney. In that
city The Bulletin is not delivered by mail, but is entirely
in the hands of our carriers, ivith whom we do not wish
to interfere. '
SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 15, 1890.
"Money Talks.”-The Enemy of the
Republic.
The Americans have a pithy saying that
money talks. 5 W e have lived long enough
in the world to know that this is something
more than a mere hypothetical opinion. It
is absolutely axiomatic. It is the generalised
“idea ’ which aptly epitomises the indus-
trial spirit of this Nineteenth Century. The
veto of the financier is final. Of any scheme
it is necessary for him to say only “there’s
money in it 'J for it to be at once realised or
realisable. If he says, “It won’t pay !” the
poor thing of a faith or a fad may well order
its shroud and prepare its tomb for im-
mediate tenantry. Imperial Federation is
doomed. Finance has signed its death-
warrant. Whilst Sir Henry Par res and
his brother -Premiers are “enthusing” in
Melbourne the money-lender coldly utters
commonplac|>.criticism in London condem-
natory of theWthole scheme, and this from
strictly busi^e||[ -principles. In a cablegram
published injonfiiof the Sydney dailies during
the past wqelodccuf these words anent the
Trust F und^-Bili
The FiNANCU^Nfy^deprecates the passing of the pro-
posed hill for eaahHpg. trustees to invest trust funds in
colonial securities, in.-view of the lavish borrowing on the
part of the colonies, and the possible ultimate separation
from the mother country.
“ Money talks !” The financier knows a
weak security when he sees it; the “possible
ultimate separation from the mother country”
is recognised very vividly by the cold, calcu-
lating man of business ; only verbose and
shallow enthusiasm is spouting the while
amid the chink of champagne-glasses and
the savoury steam of made-dishes.
* # *
In the same issue in which appeared this
cablegram, was printed also the telegraphed
report of Sir Henry Parkes’ speech at the
Gillies’ Federation banquet, and in this
speech Parkes entwines his name with that
of Dogberry for the contemplation of
posterity. He had a magnificent opportunity
of dying well, but a bungler at everything he
undertakes, he cannot with effect even quit
the busy scene in which he has played so much
and so maladroitly. He might have gone to
his silent tomb amid the mountains, or taken
up his eternal abode in any State Dead-house
he chose, leaving behind him one single grand
act of statesmanship, but he will have no such
luck. “ Whom the gods love die young,”
and Sir Henry Parkes is too old to learn.
Like the Stuarts, of whom it was said, ex-
perience could not teach them even to forget,
he acts always in everything with the same
pitiful consistency of unwisdom. An oak
cannot be transplanted at fifty, and an old
man whose life has been one whole tissue of
mistakes and expediencies, whose entire per-
sonality is a huge plagiarism, cannot play
the part of a Pericles, after eighty years of
rehearsal in that ef a Cleon. Hence h
tumbles into a quagmire of false sentiment
and tawdry splendour, putting on the airs of
an eagle with the plumage of a mud-lark.
His boasted “Empire” has shrunk into a
province, and his dream of Australian
unity into the commonplace of a vassal
dominion to Great Britain founded on the
plans and specifications which are now found
insufficient for the needs of another vassal
dominion to Great Britain.
# # #
In the May number of the Nineteenth
Century, 1884 — well nigh six years ago —
Sir Henry Parkes sketched out a scheme of
Imperial Federation in which “ silken
bonds and the “grand old mother country”
were the predominant ideas. For a while
he lulled Australia into the belief that he
had shelved or forgotten his printed folly,
that he did in word and in truth hold a firm
faith in a great southern empire; he kept
well in the background any suspicion of an
official move. He was careful not to appear
to be working in unison with the Hope-
touns and Caringtons and Kintorbs, sent
out very evidently as peripatetic John
the Baptists to prepare in the Australa-
sian desert the way for someone greater
than themselves. He gave the baby Federa-
tion just such food as it could swallow and
waited, feeling his way. To-day he is the
declared enemy of the Australian Republic.
Boldly, overtly, he avows his creed as an
Imperialist. Hitherto he has veiled this
during his Federation campaign. But the
Parkes of the Gillies’ banquet stands to-
day the acknowledged Parkes of the Nine-
teenth Century article of May, 1884.
Listen to his credo :
Free communities must have a guiding head, and I
would like to ask any thoughtful student of history what
supreme head they could have more attractive, more in
consonance with the true principles of liberty than the
sovereign under whose beneficent reign more improve-
ments have been carried out for the amelioration of the
human race than in the reign of any other sovereign on
the face of the earth. There is no reign of emperor,
king, or potentate of any caste or character which in-
cluded such tremendous advantages for the improvement
of the whole world, for the spread of Christian civilisation
and for increasing the happiness of the masses of the
human race to the extent of the reign of Queen Victoria,
Which reads very much like an essay written
to prove the intimate relationship between
the fall of sugar and the existence of paving-
stones in the moon, and is all sheer fudge
even if Sir Parkes believed it—which most
assuredly he does not, but being in want
probably of an extra knot of ribbon or
another alphabetic tag to the end of his
name, he finds it convenient to unwind in a
crowd of sympathetic banqueters too con-
vivial to be very critical.
* * *
From the first The Bulletin has de-
nounced Parkes’ scheme of Imperial
Canada-Dominion-copied Federation. From
the first The Bulletin has endeavoured
to illuminate the road towards the reali-
sation of an United Australia, com-
bined in one solid confederacy of equal
brother States against the world—Great
Britain included, if need were. From the
date when he signed his article on Imperial
Federation published in the Nineteenth
Century, six years ago, Parkes has been
the foe of the Republic ; within the past
few months he has veiled his policy ; to-day
he avows it, and he does so because, after
cunningly feeling his way, he has come to
the conclusion that the republican movement
it is not yet strong enough to carry an elec-
tion, and he is not statesman enough to
hazard all his fate and his future on a single
cast of the die. There is litte doubt that
had public feeling in the Australian provin-
ces evinced a more decided Nationalistic
trend, Parkes would have declared for it.
He would have thrown over Hopetoun,
and Carington, and the Imperialistic
conspiracy and headed the red-shirt move-
ment. He has found it apparently weak
enough to desert; for, after all, the other side
has the ribbons and the sections of alphabets
which please the big-little order of which
P arkes is certainly no specially despicable a
type.
* * #
Parkes has reason, too, to doubt the
strength of the movement in a country in
which the Melbourne Argus is published.
This is the one paper in all the Australias in
which grovel is cultivated to the extreme of
a fine art; in which the brain of man con-
cocts drivelling sycophancy inviting itself to
enjoy mental kicking and to take pleasure in
having its intellectual midriff jumped upon.
Of course, the very advocacy of Imperial
Federation by the Argus is sufficient to
damn it, and it can serve the Republic no
better than by opposition. The Bulletin
has from time to time been accused of being
alarmist, of seeing assassins in bushes, and
so forth, but the scheme indicated in these
columns as the one which would probably
be adopted by the enemy, is already being
openly discussed as the only one by the press
partizans—that is to say, the avowed par-
tizans—of Imperialism. Thus the Argus in
a recent sub-leader ;
“It is right that the sons of the monarch should be
placed in such positions of trust and responsibility as they
can creditably occupy, in order that the honour of the
family and the dignity of the house may be maintained.
Thus, when we have a federated Australia, it would be no
bad thing for the Dominion or for the empire if occa-
sionally one of the Princes filled the important post of
Governor-General. The world would have a visible sign
of the unity of the empire, the appointment would be
personally popular, and the occupant of the office could
not but learn useful constitutional lessons.”
A pretty patriotic prospect truly. This great
southern land is to be a school for a silly
prince to leam—what ? The “ constitutional
lessons ” ordinarily learnt by princes arc not
altogether unconnected with the ballet, and,
judging from the princes we know of, their
most useful “function” is the invention of
some little novelty in social observance cal-
culated to prove of vast moment to the
gilded ones who luxuriate in Toorak or at
Potts’ Point, butas easily learnt in a stable
or in a greenroom as in the manipulation of
the reins of governance.
,* * *
Parkes and the Argus, however, are
shingling out into the fog. While they are
examining the plans for the royal residence
of the Dominion’s future prince-governor,
the money-market is making also its observa-
tions, and the veto of the money-market is
adverse to the Parke,ses and the Arguses of
Australian Imperialism. The best guarantee
of the continuance of the Guelphic rule in
England is said by some to be the colossal
magnitude of the national debt-—the people
are the State s creditors, a change in the
constitution would mean repudiation, and
vested interests govern practically through
the throne. All this is erroneous enough, no
doubt, but ideas somewhat similar caused
the Financial News writer to advise the
discouragement of the investment of trust
funds in Australian securities, with sub-
sequent Republicanism and—repudiation.
“Money talks” and the Financial News sees
further through the ladder of the future
than Pakkes and the Argus with their sun-
set vagueness about “beneficent” reigns,
and royal highnesses on the gubernatorial
half-shell.
* * *
The whole scheme of Imperial Federation
is now, however, about played out. It will
serve the purpose Parkes intended it should,
and then it will be put on the shelf beside
the other useful playthings of State dead-
house, theft of Australia’s name, etc., etc.,
etc. It will secure a few votes and another
term of power for the white-maned old chief,
Avho is only too glad to avoid facing the
country again on the fiscal duel, or even with
so miserably parochial a platform as a North
Shore bridge. After all, Parkes probably
believes no more in his present plaything
than does the writer in the Financial News,
and if “money talks,” we must remember
also that since his entry into public life
Parkes has done nothing else.
Yankee Doodle.
As a rule the cable messages sent from Eng-
land to Australia are, even when trust-
worthy, so devoid of interest as to set one
pondering on why they were sent at all.
Questions and occurrences of supreme
moment are but lightly touched upon or
neglected altogether, in order to make room
for the “accouchement of a princess,” or
for the equally absorbing circumstance that
a commonplace young man, while tiger-
shooting in India, narrowly escaped being
squelched by an insubordinate elephant.
hat concern the birth of one pauper or the
escape of another possesses for the Aus-
tralian public is beyond ordinary people’s
ken. The general opinion is that if the
former had been stillborn and the latter
fatally mauled by the infuriated tiger,
neither event, however deplorable, would have
been of cardinal importance in the march of
men or of nations. From late mail advices
it would appear that, by express desire of the
Queen, the Sultan of Zanzibar has been made
a Knight ot St. Michael and St. George.
So far as we are aware, this information was
not cabled to Australia. It was probably
surmised that many colonists would be dis-
tressed to hear that the Order for which they
struggled and schemed was widened suffi-
ciently to admit a full-blown negro. Buc
every now and then a message of the first
importance is flashed across the globe. Of
such is the news that America intends ex-
pending nearly sixty millions of her money
on the creation of a Navy second to none.
Strangely enough, although the information
is of such gravity, not alone to the present
generation but to unborn ones—eclipsing, as
it the gossip of all the world’s courts
and aristocracies—-it has been suffered to
pass almost unnoticed by tire Australian
press. These journals have been so much
in the habit of chronicling the babble of
titled beggars that they have not a word to
throw away on a project which bids fair to
cause the sceptre of the seas to change hands
a resolution which promises to bring mari-
time supremacy West in the wake of the
millions whom princes and priests have
forced to move in the same direction.
* * *
It is not generally known that during the
American Revolution there was but too
good reason to suppose that mad George 111.
was prepared to dismember the States like
Poland and sell portions to the highest
European bidders so as not to lose the whole.
Genoa, unable to conquer Corsica, got out
of the difficulty by selling the rebeHious
island to France. But the European powers
were too wary to invest in such a hazardous
speculation, so that the demented monarch
and his scarcely less demented ministers
were obliged to go cap in hand to the old
world despots, now to beg twenty thousand
men from Russian Catharine, now to buy as
many from his Highness of Hesse. The
result is too well known to be more than
adverted to. But even at this distance of
time it is not too much to say that the
colonists of the period were fighting, not for
themselves alone, but for humanity, Afnong
the items on the programme laid down for
the guidance of the infant State by the great
men that presided over her destinies were a
weak army, a weak navy, no possessions
beyond sea, and peace with the world. On
three oceasions, once with Great Britain,
once with Mexico and once with the Southern
slaveholders, she was forced to modify this
programme, but quickly returned to it again
when the danger was past. The question
naturally arises, “why is she obliged to
modify it now, so far as the navy is concerned
—now when she is so much stronger than
ever and no danger threatens 1 ” Let us
examine some of the probable reasons.
* * *
In his chapter on “The Functions of
Government ” in “ Social Problems,” Henry
George says :
If war should ever be forced upon us we could safely
rely upon science and invention, which are already super-
seding navies faster than they can be built. . . Stand-
ing navies and standing armies are inimical to the genius
of democracy, and it ought to be our pride as it is our
duty, to show the world that the great republic can dis-
pense with both.
This is a noble sentiment and would be ap-
plicable in a world where thieves did not
break through and steal. But the prudent
man, however good the opinion he may hold
of his neighbours, however anxious to live
with them in amity, sleeps all the sounder
for knowing that his doors are locked and
bolted. With all his phenomenal grasp and
perspicuity it must be confessed that to a
person fresh from the writings of Malthus
and Mill, some chapters in “Progress and
Poverty,” and in subsequent works by the
same writer, appear to stand on a very un-
stable foundation. This, however, is not the
place to either attack or defend them.
If true they need no defence —if false,
no argumentative speciousness will prop
them up. The only statement of his im-
pinging on our present subject is the one
concerning the superfluousness of an Ameri-
can navy. Were Australia a populous,
federated, and independent State, as she
must some day of necessity become—were
she to remain content within her own boun-
daries instead of adopting for a policy
the pinchbeck Chauvinism of dominating
every South Pacific atoll—there would be
little necessity for her to create a powerful
navy. In her case George’s contention
might be adopted. But with the United
States the case is far different, as we shall
proceed to show r .
* * *
The Union contains but one-third of
North America—but one-fifth of the whole
American Continent. It is wedged between
possible enemies. True it is that from the
Mexicans little is to be feared, as there is no
European State behind them. The same
cannot be said for the Northern neigh-
bours, “behind whom,” as a London paper
took occasion to inform the authorities at
Washington the other day, “there was the
British Fleet.” For a country of such im-
portance, growing so rapidly, and already
far ahead of any other great Power
in resources, wealth, and intelligence
in population, too, with the possible
exception of Russia—it is intolerable to be
told that if it does not put up ivith the
whims of a querulous neighbour some people
on the other side of the Atlantic will have a
say in the matter. What adds to the signi-
ficance of this meaning hint is the undoubted
fact that in the present state of American
defence such interference would inevitably
mean the loss of prestige, property, and
honour. With the great sea-board cities of
the country at the mercy of a single first-
rate ironclad, and the commerce of thousands
of miles of coast-line at the disposal of a few
swift cruisers ; with neighbours by no means
pleased with your progress and possible
enemies in possession of the world’s most
powerful fleet, it is little less than a crime to
remain defenceless. Of this we may be sure,
that the London Standard’s stupid menace
regarding the letting loose of the fleet in
question was no unimportant factor in deter-
mining the Washington Cabinet to prepare
for eventualities.
* # #
Although for obvious reasons we have
dwelt chiefly on the danger to be appre-
hended by America from a misunderstanding
with G reat Britain, it must n#t be supposed
that she is free from entanglements with
other powers. The differences wjjth England
arise solely from the fact that the Union
Jack is the only European flag that flies on
the North American Continent. Why it is
kept flying there at all is a striking example
of how frequently nations are governed by
sentiment rather than by interest. In spite
of common-sense, of geographical position,
and of clear self-interest, Canada has so far
preferred to be the hanger-on of a distant
monarchy rather than be independent her-
self or form portion of the Republic. But
even tjijs, absurd as it happens, is excelled in
crassness by the European State that retains
such an unprofitable dependency. From a
military stand-point, Canada, like Australia,
is a source of weakness, not of strength, to
England. Indeed, she excels this country in
that respect, as it is entirely through her
that difficulties may arise between Britain
and America. Commercially she creates
tariffs to keep out her mother’s goods and
could do no more if independent or absorbed
in the Union to-morrow. In either case she
wouid be precisely of the same commercial
value to England as now.' She pays no
shilling into the Imperial exchequer, and
is, all things considered, about as use-
ful an appendage— except for the pur*
pose of getting her mother into trouble—
as the fifth wheel of a coach. In his secret
heart many a British statesman must go to
bed at night with the fervent hope that
before morning a line of ice-bergs will have
broken away from the frozen" ocean and
passed over North America as far almost as
the 45th parallel. It is one thing to fight


for India from which millions a year are
drawn in various ways. But to light for the
continued possession of that which is of no
earthly use is the highest point which human
eccentricity has touched as yet.
# # *
Compared, as we suggested, with the
danger from England, arising partly from
the neighbourhood of Canada and partly
from the strength of the British marine,
America has little to fear. Yet it would be
incorrect to say she had no cause for uneasi-
ness. In spite of her resolution to keep
within her own border and avoid colonial
possessions she has growing interests beyond
the seas on both sides of the Equator. It
was entirely through her representations
that the unfortunate Samoans were saved
fromjdie tender mercies of the Germans when
the British had callously left the islanders to
theirfate. Her interests in South America and
Eastern Asia are growing daily ; and, strive
as she may, the unpleasant truth is being
forced upon her that cultivated nations, like
savages, respect those only who are prepared
to command such respect by force. On the
head of all this comes the reflection that
navies, unlike armies, are not the creation
of a year or two but of a long period of time.
Even admitting, then, that “standing navies
and standing armies are inimical to the
genius of democracy,” it would be as well to
bear in mind that while monarchy and aristo-
cracy with their records of violence and
meanness have still a potent voice in the
world’s governance, democracy cannot afford
to bo weak.
Hereditary Hat-Touching.
Nothing is more depressing to a red-blooded
white man than the avidity with which the aver-
age Australian toiler pulls the shapeless hat off
his wrinkled forehead to give three cheers for the
Queen, and three for the Prince of Wales, and, in
case Battbnberg or some of the more obscure or
absolutely unknown units of the Wettin tribe
might feel slighted, three more for the Royal
Family collectively. One cannot go to any
banquet or meeting in city or country without
seeing this spineless exhibition, and feeling sick
sifter it. It is bad enough to find that sort of
thing in “swell” circles and among members of
Parliament, and those who have something to
gain by the observance of mock forms or some-
thing to lose by a display of independence, but it
is a thousand times worse to come across it among
the perspiring masses on whom Royalty and its
relations feed and fatten. Go to an up-country
ploughing-match dinner or any other of the rare
occasions on which the agriculturalists of the in-
terior wastes sit down to a decent meal and you
will observe the alacrity with which they obey the
chairman’s mandate, “Gentlemen, charge your
glasses,” and proceed to drink to reigning
Royalty. The charging of glasses and drinking is
excusable enough, but one would expect the line of
conduct of a certain monk who, being urged to
drink the health of the Devil, replied, “ I refuse
the toast, and—l drink the wine ! ” to be followed
in such cases. What do the working-classes know
or care about Royalty or the nobility, so-called, or
what do Royalty or nobility, so-called, know or care
about them ? Why should this skin-deep affection
for sceptres and coronets and Imperial purple be
shown out here at all ? Most of the men who doff
their head-gear and lap up drinks to the tune of
loyalty, never saw a monarch, or duke, or even a
footman, and would climb a tree or jump down a
well if they suddenly caught sight of a Bishop in
full fig. The bulk of them form the mature first
generation of Australians, sprung from sires who
were forced to seek a livelihood elsewhere than in.
their native land—sires under the old regime, who
found very little more in life than to work hard
all their days, live on humble fare, and be them-
selves like their fare, or even more so. Fathers
who grubbed and moiled through lives of continual
toil—when they were fortunate enough to have it
continual, and who only left the dear Mother
Country when such continuity became too fre-
quently broken —fathers who touched forelocks
matted with perspiration to the parson, and the
steward, and the butler, and the head coachman,
and who trembled at sight of a baronet, and went
on all-fours to a marquis, are what is the matter
with the bush toast-drinkers. They have imbibed
some of the spirit of progenitors who, unconscious
of being loafed upon by the whole august and
glittering army of rulers, have gone on touching
hats to everything on legs that had possessed itself
by any means of a better coat and cleaner linen
than themselves, and boasting that every English-
man could murder three Frenchmen and never be
a slave. The country Australian of to-day has
accepted, without questioning, a good deal of his
father’s belief and has been too busy, and too far
from contact with the old-world conditions to have
his keener intelligence awakened to the truth
of how matters stand. He is a good deal sharper
than his father, his surroundings have made him
a good deal more independent, and if he were
exported to Great Britain and placed in that con-
dition of life from which his parents came, his hat
would not come off quite so readily. But he does
not see that it particularly matters to him how the
State is governed, and has no leisure to go into
the thing, so he takes it for granted that the
Queen and Royal Family and all the rest are
necessary parts of something that Englishmen
somehow are called upon to be proud of and drink
to. Hence the claim made by occasional prim-
rose-eaters and similar toadies that there is more
loyalty in the colonies than in England. There
Ought to be, for the people here see less of the in-
stitutions that evoke their loyalism, and don’t feel
personally concerned. The feeling is at best an
inherited and formal one, and means little more
than the*'* 1 how-d’-ye-do ” of meeting acquaint-
ances. But in this indifference, too, there is
danger—the greatest of danger. It is not to be
doubted that strenuous effort Js being made to
bring Australia into closer connection with the
British Kingdom and make us contributory out-
skirts to the happy hunting-grounds of monarchy
and nobility. The Imperial Federatipnists are
playing for a big stake and have all their cards on
the table at the present juncture. The fascination
of Primrose women is being turned full upon un-
kempt and grinning Hodge ; the Queen is known
to bs pleased or displeased with whatever happens;
any outspokenness of Colonial Governors induces
the British Lion to sit up and say “Never
more be Governor of mine t ” and ho who
hungers for G.M.G.-ships and things to
stick on his coat with a pin is, in many
ways, plainly given to understand how he
may get them. The present federation move-
ment wants watching very closely, or we of Aus-
tralia may find ourselves made a party to the
levying and paying of unjust tributes to those
with whom we have no real sympathy, to the con-
ducting of cruel and unrighteous wars, to the
embroilment with those with whom otherwise our
relations would be peaceable, and to the upholding
of systems contrary and repugnant to the spirit of
democracy, and to the maintenance of a method
of government which cannot be defended on
reasonable or logical grounds. One by one the
nations that have tested kingship are vomiting
the deadly dose, and we should have enough
examples of monarchical and republican govern-
ments before our eyes to enable us to choose
wisely., when the time for choice comes, The
question is a momentous one and should have
more earnest consideration given to it than the
formal Queen-cheerers and he’s-a-jolly-good-
fellowists of princedom give any evidence of
having accorded it as yet. Hereditary hat-
touching will not survive another generation in
this climate, but we must be careful not to raise a
special Australian genus of the miserable weed.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Anarchy plus Arrest.
A Mr. Mackay, evidently an admirer of Her-
bert Spencer, has written an elaborate defence
of out-and-out individualism. Like the old school
of political economists, Mr. Mackay delights in
reasoning backward to primitive types, but goes
beyond them for his illustrations past the naked
savage to the protoplasmic cell. His main thesis
is that there has been too much Socialism as repre-
sented successively by the village community, the
feudal system, and centralized governments, and
as a consequence the individual has had “ his
character warped and his acquisitive instincts
atrophied by disuse.” Most people would have
supposed that the acquisitive instinct of the day
was more in want of a curb than a spur.
Then the writer proceeds to give himself
away completely by stating that the individualist’s
ideal is “ anarchy plus the police-constable.” We
have met some of these cranks in Australia. They
prate loudly of unconditional liberty, of anarchy,
and hang on to the gaol-system with the despair-
ing clutch of the man who is in deep water.
Policemen and gaols are but the instruments of
laws, laws necessitate law-makers as well as ad-
ministrators, and if the making and administra-
tion of laws, whether bad or good, is not the chief
function of Governments then there is no sufficient
reason for their existence. This your common
variety of anarchist is unable to recognise. With
one hand he would tear down the buildings where
laws are made, and with the other buttress the
buildings where they are carried out. There are,
however, logical and philosophical anarchists, but
Germany and America is their principal stamping-
ground.
Mark Twain and Divine Right.
Says Mark Twain to a British reviewer in refer-
ence to international copyright and the publica-
tion of his latest work :
But the protection of American authors is not the main
thing. The great question is the preservation in this
country of a national literature, the spread of national
sentiments, national thought, and national morals. What
becomes of a few chuckle-headed authors who can go and
saw wood, or live or die just as they like, is a mere trifle
compared with the colossal national question involved,
which is whether our people are going to continue to im-
bibe foreign ideas, and to take their opinions of American
institutions from foreign writers. If I were going to Eng-
land and delivering myself conscientiously on your
royalties—pour out my contempt for your pitiful lords
and dukes—no one would publish ray book. But an
Englishman comes along here, and after looking around
for a few minutes, goes home and writes a book in which
he abuses our President, jeers and ridicules our institu-
tions, and that book is gobbled up by our American pub-
lishers and scattered throughout the country at twenty
cents a copy. After that we are told that the Americans
are thin-skinned ! We are also told that our newspapers
are irreverent —coarse, vulgar and ribald. I hope that this
irreverence will last for ever; that we shall always
show irreverence for royalties and titled creatures born
into privilege, and all that class which take their title
from anything but merit. Merit alone should be the only
thing that should give a man a title to eminence. lam
sorry that some of our newspapers are losing that irrever-
ence which I wish to see preserved. They talk too much
about that miserable puppet, the German Emperor ; and
the spread of foreign ideas is having its effect on our
people. There are American women—well brought up
and perfectly respectable—who are ready to sell them-
selves to anything with the name of a duke attached.
There is one railroad thief, whom I could name, married
his daughter to some decayed prince ; but you can’t ex-
pect much from a railroad robber anyway.
Mr. Clemens was quite led away by this onslaught on
royalty and titles. He usually speaks very slowly and
quietly, but he warmed up, and emphasized his words
with expressive gestures. He has a habit when talking
with one to stare fixedly at some imaginary object in
space, as if he had got hold of an idea and was deter-
mined to keep in sight of it. His normal conversation is
very slow-, and he lingers sometimes over a word, and
then accelerates the speed of the next few so as to make
up for the delay.
After this he told me something about his new book,
and how he had changed it to suit the English market.
“ I want to get at the Englishman,” he said, “ but to do
that I must go through the English publisher; and your
publishers and your newspapers are cowards. I have
modified and modified my book until I really couldn’t cut
it anymore ; and now Mr. Chatto, who is the most
courageous of them, will have to cut it more. lam
anxious to see my fate. I have got the preface, and as
only the first part remains I presume he has cut it. Yes,
out off more than half the preface,” said Mr. Clemens, in
sorrowful tones ; “ and all because of a playful reference
of mine to the divine right of kings.”
It may be that Messrs. Chatto and Windus will think
better of the preface, and reverse their decision : but here
is the part which the author thinks is doomed
“The question as to whether there is such a thing as
divine right of kings is not settled in this book. It was
found too difficult." That the executive head of a nation
should he a person of lofty character and extraordinary
ability was manifest and indisputable ; that none but the
Deity could select that head unerringly was also manifest
and indisputable ; consequently, that He does make it, as
claimed, was an unavoidable deduction. I mean, until
the author of this book encountered the Pompadour, and
Lady Castlemainb and some other executive heads of that
kind; these were found so difficult to work into the
scheme that it was judged better to take the other tack
in this book (which must be issued this fall), and then go
into training and settle the question in another book. It
is, of course, a thing which ought to be settled, and I am
not going to have anything particular to do next winter
anyway.”
Mr. Clemens also fears that some of the illustrations
tell their tale too plainly for the English people. He is
delighted with the way the artist has entered into the
spirit of the hook in executing the illustrations, and
pointed to what he considers a very fine portrait of Jay
Gould in the capacity of the “ slave-driver.”
“ It is four years,” he said, in answer to another ques-
tion, “since I projected this book, and three years since I
wrote it. When I write a book I put the manuscript in
pigeon-holes for a year or two. I take it out and look at
it now and then to see how it is getting on. I began to
think some months ago that the time was about ripe for
this one. And sure enough it is, for there is Brazil getting
rid Of its Emperor in 24 hours, there is talk of a republic
in Portugal and federation in Australia ; and, curiously
enough, the short proclamation in which my hero
abolishes the monarchy is similar—l don’t mean the lan-
guage, but the ideas—to the proclamation establishing
the Brazilian Republic.”
♦
It is announced that Gov. Cartxoton will finally
leave New South Wales at the end of this year,
lie will be remembered as a man who served well
the Imperial interests and pleased that large
section of the populace which unhesitatingly
accepts as right all that is done by a lord. But
by those who love justice and abhor savage and
illogical acts done in the name of the law, he will
be recollected as a man who, having had during
his term of office only one great opportunity of
showing whether he was a man or a mouse, set him-
self down for all time as the latter. Lord Caring-
ton will live in that small corner of history in which
his name is fated to endure, as a person so deficient
in the ability to discriminate between right and
wrong, so oblivious of the attributes of what
Englishmen seek to idealise as “British” justice
that he countenanced the commission of the most
unjust and blood-curdling deed ever done in this
land in the name of the law—the execution of four
boys after a trial which would have disgraced the
court of Judge Lynch, and the mere mention of
which heats the blood of any honest umpire
between man and man. Had Lord Carington
simply written a minute in the records of the
Executive Council that he reprieved those boys
because they had not had a fair trial according to
the spirit of British law, he would have told God’s
truth and given to the Supreme Court of New
South Wales, in its criminal jurisdiction,
a slap in the face which it has sadly wanted for
many a long year. It is idle to attempt to
release Governor Carington of one atom of the
responsibility connected with this horrid rape on
the Goddess of Justice. He cannot plead that he
could not interfere with the decision of the
Executive Council. He did interfere when he re-
prieved, on his own account, and for utterly
inscrutable reasons, two of the youths whom
the Executive had finally decided to strangle.
If Lord Carington cannot now see that
the evidence on which the youths were con-
victed consisted chiefly of perjury and exaggera-
tion, that the manner of their trial cried and still
cries out to Heaven for vengeance, and that the
keeping in gaol for life of the unexecuted prisoners
is under the circumstances an unspeakably gross
outrage, he must be a poor creature indeed.
Colonel Ingersoll, writing in the North
American Review on the divorce question, says
he would set the wife free, if the husband ill-uses
and would grant right of re-marriage. He asks
Has she no right to build another home ? Must this
woman, full of kindness, affection, health, be tied and
chained to this living corpse? Is there no future for her?
Must she be an outcast for ever—deceived and betrayed
for her whole life ? Can she never sit by her own hearth,
with the arms of her children about her neck, and with a
husband who loves and protects her? Is she to become a
social pariah, and is this for the benefit of society ? or is it
for the sake of the wretch.who destroyed her life?
But he would not grant divorce on the husband’s
plea, unless the wife had broken the marriage con-
tract :
As a rule, the woman dowers the husband with her
youth, her beauty, her love—with all she has : and from
this contract certainly the husband should never be re-
leased, unless the wife has broken the conditions of that
contract. Divorces should be granted publicly, precisely
as the marriage should be solemnized. Every marriage
should be known, and there should be witnesses, to the
end that the character of the contract entered into should
be understood ; the record should be open and public.
And the same is true of divorces. The conditions should
be determined, the property should be divided by a court
of equity and the custody of the children given under
regulations prescribed.
Apropos, we read that the marriage-rite has be-
come little better than a mockery in the States.
Between the years 1867 and 1886 no fewer than
13,281,613 divorces were granted in the States —
that is to say, over six million and a half of people
joined in wedlock were separated. Excluding
children, widows, widowers, and single people,
the number of married persons in the U.S. has
probably during that period not exceeded 25
millions. Therefore, no less than one out of every
four who entered the marriage state must have
been separated from his partner by divorce !
A well-known London writer, after very truth-
fully observing that Mr. Browning bears the
same relation to a really great poet that Jem
Smith bears to a really great pugilist, goes on to
remind us that nobody thought of planting
Thackeray in Westminster Abbey six and twenty
years ago. The same critic is wrong, however, in
assuming that if Thackeray had lived on till last
year “everybody would have thought it wrong
for so great a writer to be allowed to sleep else-
where.” Quite a mistaken idea. The Queen and
Tummy, and all the pompous class satirized by
Thackeray as no one has been able to satirize
them since, would never have allowed the Abbey
to be desecrated by the bones of their worst enemy.
It is not so long since “Tummy,” in the course
of his podgy promenade round a Mechanics’
Library at Manchester, or Bradford, or some-
where, suggested that if he had the selection of
books for such institutions he would cast forth
the works of him who wrote “ The Snob Papers.”
Thackeray’s was the first pen to point out how
poisonous, how degrading, was the influence of
those solemn lists of fashionable arrivals and
departures to and from “town,” in the greasy
columns of the Morning Post. How “fashion-
able ” children had no sooner learned to read than
they naturally looked for a record of their move-
ments in that favourite organ of Jeames. Yet
the Queen has baronetted Borthwick, the pro-
prietor of the lickspittle thing which Thackeray
held up to honest scorn. “Influence” must, under
any circumstances, have kept the novelist out of
Westminster Abbey, a place which is chiefly used
for conferring fictitious fame upon the clay of
men whose earthly greatness was built up by the
Morning Post.
Given enough of other people’s money to play
with, a man of large ideas can easily acquire a'
reputation for financial ability. Little James
Mirams posed as the cleverest financier in Vic-
toria during “boom’’time when he was always
dabbling in half millions (on paper) and losing
himself in labyrinths of figures. The old, old
story over again. The windy individual who runs
up balance-sheets like lightning and can “ talk
money-market ” from the platform, is generally so
ignorant of the rudiments of his business that he
couldn’t manage the accounts at a corner grocery.
For one brilliant master of petty detail, like
Money Miller, who left his three millions behind
him, there are a thousand showy figure-mongers,
such as the exploded Mirams.
The anxiety of a certain class to have the New
South Wales Party Processions Act repealed can
only be accounted for by believing that they want
to bring about a revival of -faction-fighting. The
present agitation recalls a tragical incident which
occurred in Melbourne on the occasion of the first
visit of the Duke of Edinburgh. On the illumina-
tion night the L.O.L. people displayed a most
offensive transparency in front of the Stephen -
street Protestant Hall. The mob pelted it, and
on the second night the bravos of the order fired
indiscriminately into the crowd. One life (that
of an apparently inoffensive young man) was
sacrificed. Nine of the culprits were put on trial,
and some of their number wore proved to have
practised pistol-shooting that morning and made
no secret of their purpose. They were, however
acquitted, Melbourne being at the time possessed
of an ultra-loyal craze—just as New South Wale*
was possessed of an ultra-loyal craze which re-
sulted in the hanging of the lunatic O’Farrell.
The vast majority of the New South Wales popu-
lation do not long for party processions and their
attendant riots ; nevertheless, it is quite possible
that an act for the promotion of bloodshed and
disorder may be jockeyed through the Legislature
in the interests of the lowest and meanest set of
Australia’s politicians.
The death of the Due de Montpensiek, youngest
son of King Louis Philippe, revives some history
—the affair of the Spanish marriages, in which
the astute Guizot, as French Premier, brought
about the ruin of the Monarchy. There had been
a lot of hypocritical effusion between Queen Vic-
toria and Louis Philippe, when Victoria visited
Paris and Versailles, and the pear-headed king
gave an assurance that these Spanish marriages
should not come off. Montpsnsier was to be one
of the bridegrooms, and the Spanish, marriages
would have the effect of ultimately bringing
Spain into France, so Guizot thought, wherefore
he persuaded Louis Philippe to the treachery.
The bad blood roused between France _ and
England caused England to look on with indiffer-
ence while Louis Philippe was kicked out, and
France turned into a Republic. However, events
went further in 1848 than had been anticipated,
and when Louis Philippe came humbly penitent
to England as Mr. Smith, the Queen and Prince
Albert almost wept. Guizot, as we see, brought
round the Republic with his monarchial scheming.
So may it ever be.
The Single-Tax and Socialism.
Editor Bulletin,— Ten prosy articles grandilo-
quently styled “The Philosophy of the Single-
tax ” have just finished contributing to the edifica-
tion of the readers of the Daily Telegraph.
Like most men who out a case for their em-
ployers and according to the price, the contribute!
had not alone to make his own case appear
plausible and respectable but also had to make it
unmistakably clear that it was not identified with
anything that was not respectable or difficult of
realisation. Consequently we find the philosopher
(save the mark!) avowing that, “Between the
proposals of Socialism and what the Single-tax
seeks to accomplish there is a difference of prin-
ciple, absolute, and not to be compromised.” This
was to be expected, considering that the Single-
tax party is the left wing of the_ Freetrade
Capitalist party, and that anything in common
with the Socialist or working men’s party would
be disagreeable to their patrons and co-politicians.
* # *
Not content with this declaration of non-affinity
with non-respectability the charge of ignorance
unhesitatingly brought against Socialists as a body
had to be preferred in this wise : —“ Socialism is
based upon a total misapprehension of the true
meaning and value of capital.” This would give
the taxation philosophy an air of profound wisdom,
as the bulk of the Telegraph readers would not
be cognisant of the fact that it is to a Socialist,
Karl Marx, that the world owes the greatest work
on social and political economy that it has yet
seen : and that it is, singularly enough, entitled
“ Capital : a critical analysis of capitalist produc-
tion.” A work in which capital is defined in the
most scientific manner, so specifically, in fact,
that had the Single-taxer read it, and the people
of Australia read and mastered it, they would
give Mr. H. George a short shrift; and would,
instead of having him lecturing to them, give him
more useful work to do.
* # *
Trades-Unionism, too, not being exactly arm-
chair tax philosophy, had to be mis-stated and
misrepresented even unto the danger of breaking
the already overstretched truth. “ Trades-
Unionism has no power in itself to better the
general condition of the whole field of labour, and
therefore can only help some labourers to the loss
of others.” This crystallised wisdom in excelsis
was a grand effort to get beyond all known philo-
sophy. It was a clumsy move to make an effect
appear to be a cause ; an effect of the system to
seem to be a cause produced by some of the factors
in it, and then certainly not the class against
whom the charge was laid. Rather is it the
fault of the capitalists than the trades-union-
ists. The trades-unionists refuse to fall below
a given standard of living, therefore, says the philo-
sopher, they cause the lower condition of the
labourers outside the pale of trades-unionism. The
capitalist doesn’t take advantage of the fringe of
unemployed that is a necessity of capitalist pro-
duction, oh dear no ! He only gives starvation
wages and life-shortening hours to the unorganized
1 abourers j ust tooonvince them that trades-unioni sm
causes it and wishes it. Of such is the philosophy
of Single-tax ignorance.
# # #
The editor of the Daily Telegraph permitted
socialist criticism of the aforegoing Single-tax
assertions, but when the Single-tax “reply ” to the
socialist strictures appeared, and the same crude,
ignorant statements reappeared bolstered up by
previously-used arguments, Socialists were denied
the right of reply. And the Star even refused tc
publish a challenge thrown down to the Single-
taxers to make good their averments against
Trades-unionism and Socialism. That this bodj
of men, the Sydney Single-tax League, should
refuse to meet in public debate a Socialist who is
pi’epared and willing to defend his position against
Single-tax asseverations, is pretty conclusive proof
of the hollowness and baselessness of their con-
tentions.
* * *
As Socialism was declared to be “both imprac
ticable and unjust ” in the article which we were
denied the right to reply to, we were naturally
anxious that these men should have the fullest
opportunity to demonstrate it, the only condition
that we imposed upon the proceeding was that we
should have equal opportunity to accept or reject
the dicta. As this fair play was denied us we herein
say to The Bulletin readers that we are willing—
even anxious to show that there is no truth in the
dictum that “Socialism is both impracticable and
unjust.” There cannot be any injustice in a state
of society wherein “each and all its members
alike are accorded the greatest length and breadth
in life.” This is simply a conscious application of
human knowledge applied to all branches of
human activity, so that useless expenditure of
human energy shall not continue and result as it
at present does in untold and unutterable human
woe. That it is decried as impracticable is true,
it is the argument of the savage and the men of
expediency. That everything is perpetually
changing is incomprehensible to them, and that
we are becoming in a greater degree the masters
and less the victims of the laws of nature they
cannot see, but that is the fault of their idiocy or
their undreamt-of philosophy, or their painful
efforts to trim their sails to the winds of expedi-
t'uoy,
A. G. YEWEN.


A great number of Sydney thieves and
sharpers are said to be flocking to Hobart. They
want to learn some wrinkles from the local hash-
house-keepers, we suppose.
“ Sunday at Home,” presumably as
Hterarv “ bread and water,” is supplied to pri-
soners in Melbourne Gaol. The Bulletin, being
a necessary luxury, is rigorously excluded.
Three small boys, aged, 12, 10, and 8,
have been sentenced for burglary and robbery
under arms at Rutherglen, Yio. It has been
truly said that the Young Australian can stick up
for himself.
Having got rid of the drones by a liberal
use of the pruning-knife, the N.S.W. Railway
Commissioners advertised for nine clerks at an
average salary of £3 weekly. They had no less
than 521 applicants—at competitive examination !
Advt. from Melbourne Age
TV/TAN, young, 21, dishonest, intemperate, smart at
-i-Vl embezzling-, therefore “ businesslike,” dis-
engaged. Desperandmn, Age.
This is the despairing cry of some unappreciated
one who vainly begs from his fellows “leave to
toil.”
A mixture of matrimonial aristocratic
relations has elicited the fact that in England,
while a man is strictly prohibited from marrying
his deceased wife’s sister, there is nothing to
prevent him marrying his divorced wife’s sister,
even while the divorced wife is alive. The
Scriptures are silent on this naughty point.
The Court House Hotel, Charters Towers,
a roomy two-storey building, was being bodily re-
moved on skids some 300 ft. from one street to
another, and the job was pretty slow. The
Capting of the Salvation Army was around “ sug-
gesting this, improving that,” and saying he had
shifted bigger buildings “by a jugful,”in America.
The genial publican sidled up to him with the
pertinent query, “Ho you believe the Bible?”
“ Certainly ; alleloolyar ! ” said the Capting. “It
says faith can remove mountains ?” “So it can ;
glowry be to God !” quoth the Harmy man.
“Well,” said Boniface, “If you’ll kneel right
down here and pray, and shift this bloomin’ pub,
I’ll give you a tenner and join the Army.” The
Capting smiled but left without trying.
The Age is publishing the lives of “ Vic-
torian Pro-consuls ” written in London and com-
mencing with Sir Henry Barkly. The first article
contains, however, numerous inaccuracies which the
Age, being established before Barkly ’s time, ought
to be able to correct. For instance, it says that
William Nicholson, the ballot-man, who suc-
ceeded O’Shannassy as Chief Secretary in Octo-
ber, 1859, was a grocer at the corner of Swanston
and Collins streets. This is not so, that was
Germain Nicholson, who died some time ago at
Suez. The other Nicholson (William) kept a
green-grocery in the early days in Collins-street
West, and at the time of his Chief-Secretaryship
had developed into a portly merchant in
Flinders-street to whom it was high treason
to speak of cabbage or turnips. Of the Heales
Ministry of that day (1860 and ’6l), or the men
who fought and bore the heat and burden of the
day, the writer says that but J. H. Brooke re-
mains, and he is not in the colony. Of that
Ministry G. F. Yerdon (of the E.S. and A.C.
Bank), J. S. Johnston (of the Argus), and Thomas
Loader still remain in the flesh and the colony,
while of the Assembly of that year there still
remain in Parliament, Gillies, M‘Lellan, L. L.
Smith, W. C. Smith, and John Woods. Living
still, though not in politics, we find Graham Berry,
J. J. Casey, C. G. Huffy, George Collins Levey,
Nat Levi, Capt. M‘Mahon, Sir Francis Murphy,
A. O’Connor, James Orkney, Vincent Pyke,
James Service, Salmon Wilson and Pete” Wright.
The Age scribe must try again.
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
Everybody should use Pennell's latest best Snow-white
Patent Roller Flour. It is the greatest success of the
age.
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
25,000,000 bottles of the famous St. Louis
Lager Beer were sold the past year. Try the new
brew now on the market.
In the Press and shortly to be published,
the first of The Bulletin series, “ A Golden
Shanty —Australian stories and sketches in prose
and verse by Bulletin writers. ” Being a selection
from the brightest of the original literary matter
which has made The Bulletin world-famous,
Price one shilling ; if posted 5d. extra.
The Australian contingent of the Salvation
Army has received instructions to attack the
masses who are rushing to destruction and capture
ten thousand souls ;—
Among the sinful masses
Who are rushing to destruction
The “captings” and their “lasses ”
Mean to raise a righteous ruction :
Their Harmy drums a-beating
With a vigour something cruel,
At each Hallelujah meeting
They will give the Devil “ gruel.”
[?]
846 Maequarie-street North, Sydney, February 12, 1890.
My Dear Moorabinda, —
“ All fat women are tremendously conceited,” said a
dudelet to me recently, and I was about to wither him up
on t general principles when I stopped to analyse his
generalisation and found he had spoken wisely. Fat
women.are vain—inordinately so—and I believe it’s all
the fault of the dressmakers. I was waiting to he “ tried
on ” the other day when a water-butt lady sidled through
the door and demanded to he fitted there and then. She
didn’t object to my presence hut proceeded to business at
once, revealing feather-pillow embonpoint with no per-
ceptible waist-line and colossal peeled-carrot arms guile-
less of elbows, while her short, creasy neck was set into
her rolling shoulders on the gin-bottle plan. Altogether,
she was the most impossible structure for which a dress-
maker ever perilled her reputation, and I quite thought
the costumi6re would report herself “fully occupied” and
how the bovine fairy out. But no ! she wasn’t going to
throw money away—she just waded in with her scissors
and pins, saying the while : “ Ah ! you'll want no padded
sleeves 1” and then “ Yours is the first figure I have fitted
which is thoroughly adapted to the present fashions.”
“But I have no waist!” simpered the victim in a gratified
bass. “The very touch we want —we have to pad our
customers to get the straight line.” And so on, until the
process was over and the victim swaggered down stairs
flattered into believing herself what bad, vulgar, little
boys call “no end potatoes,” while the frookist smiled
complacently and said it was my turn now. After what
had transpired she was compelled to refrain from the
administration of “ taffy ” in my case.
One of the very few slaves of the Sydney Press-gang
who can who afford to pay the wages of a German
prince for the services of a registry-office princess in his
household, took a friend home with him to dinner, the
other night. The virtues of the aforesaid princess were
the theme of conversation, and the subject of much con-
gratulation, by the way. But, on arriving at the modest
suburban home, the “missus” was discovered cleaning
the knives in the kitchen, while the fair but frail descend-
ant of Phelim O’Toole stroked her lovingly on the back
and sang unconnected fragments of “ Erin-Go-Bragh ”
with a hicooughy accompaniment. Eventually per-
suaded to go to roost, she ingeniously worked a traverse
from one architectural projection to another with a bottle
of malignant eruption under each arm, and reached the
haven in safety. Breakfast was in course of construction
the following morning by the missus herself, when the
form of the princess appeared in the doorway and her
eodlike eye at once lit on a pile of unwashed crockery
stacked on the table. “ So yiz had a dinner last noight,
and me not able to hould up my head wid the cruel ’ralgy
that was atein’ into my bones. It’s not much of a rale lady
ye are sure enough, and I do be thinkin’ this is no place
for a gurrl wid shupayrior riferinces.”
“ Bridgetina, you are quite right. It is not. You will
never be appreciated as you desire in such a small and
unpretending establishment as this. Will you kindly col-
lect the empty beer-bottles you scattered around the
home yesterday, then pack your box and arrange to leave
after breakfast.”
“ Is it the bayre-botthles ye say ? The devil a dhrop
o’ beer I seen since into this house I come, barrin’ the
sixpen’north yiz sent me out for lasht noight to sthop
the ’ralgy, and I shared iv’ry dhrop o’ that wid yerself
fair and aqual. Bayre-botthles, indeed ! And, mehbe
you had the Governor to dinner, and mehbe it wasn’t the
bailiff, and sure if me poor old father could only have ,
known I’d eome that low in the wurruld to take your ’’
dirthy wages for ”
“ Bridget!” And the master of the house walked in
and took a hand in the final game. '»
In a few remarks made recently I endeavored to point
out to what an extent face-frescoing had arrived in
Sydney, and when I enumerated lips and cheeks I thought
I had struck all the surfaces where rouge came in. But
no, the latest Sydney craze is to daub your auriculars
with pink paint in order to induce a shell-like flush as if
your little ears were perpetually burning with the num-
ber of people talking about you. It is very difficult to
secure the artistic tint, and tyros at it often get over-
whelmed with confusion, as was instanced in a ’bus the
other day. A girl got in with actually daubed ears and a
well-meaning old soul leant across to her and said “ I
think your ear is bleeding, miss.” The manner in which
that girl immediately agreed that it was while she care-
fully pocket-handkerchiefed both ears speaks volumes for
her discretion.
One of the most objectionable features of the month of
February is the number of “sales” held, principally by
the calico interest, who whitewash their windows, line
them with heart-breaking hills of interior sacrifices, keep
their employes in till midnight, and listen to the money
jingling. I am told that sales are great institutions, and
that if I want to buy a light gown cheap for next Summer
here is my golden moment. Well, suppose I do buy.
Green is worn now, but yellow with red spots, or tiger-skin
trimmed with frogs’ legs, may be the only wear next
summer, and what’s the use of a garment of last year’s
style? Besides which there’s the trouble of stowing it
and spending a fortune in camphor to keep the moths
away. And it’s only in the strictly summer goods
that genuine reductions are marked. Corsets, gloves,
hosiery, boots, &0., keep up their familiar average
to make up for the “sacrificed” flimsies, though
they always make the old prices large with exolamation-
notes to beguile the unwary customer with her husband’s
wages in her pooket, who is so ready to be taken in by a
large red ticket with “given away” on it — a remark
which should properly be applied to the purchase. I
don’t like sales. They transform erstwhile decorous,
well-behaved shops, where one’s wants are promptly
attended to, into howling bear-gardens, where weird
females with sore-nosed babies over their arms supersede
you at the counter and subject delicate silks and satins to
the flnger-and-thumb test. I was buying some white
velvet at a “sale” once, and a woman who looked as if
she was dressed in umbrellas marched up, seized and
grease-streaked the cut-off length in front of me and
asked, sociably, “What did yez give for it?” Ruefully
regarding the tallow-mark, I told her the price, and said
that Mr. Snipson, from whom I had not yet accepted de-
livery, would now probably sell it to her for half-price, I
have not been to a sale since.
And apropos of shops, I wish the convenient “ shopping-
card” were introduced into the large businesses of the
needle-to-an-anohor variety. The card works thus: At
the first counter you buy at you ask for one, and on it
address, article purchased, and price, are put down, the
process being repeated at each counter. When your pur-
chases are complete you take the card to the cashier and
—just think of it! ye weary shoppers who have to wait
hours at one counter for a few shillings change ! —pay for
everything at once and have all the articles sent home in
one parcel. The business-facilitating properties of the
“shopping-card” are so obvious that it’s a wonder the
larger shops haven’t introduced them long ago.
A neat thing happened at Sydney ’Varsity the other
evening during a rehearsal of Cowen’s “Rose Queen.”
There is one line where the word “ God” occurs, and the
chorus would persist in giving undue breath to the divine
substantive, till at last “ Lucy” Alltress, who wielded the
baton, could stand it no longer. “I tell you ‘God’ is a
crochet !” he howled wildly. And then some of the agnos-
tics among the chorus smiled.
And, speaking of music, Kowalski’s cantata, “ The
Future Life,” which will be produced when the Cen-
tennial Hall is really finished, with Santley in the bill as a
disembodied lover rapturously clasping the filmy spook of
his defunct Juliet to his shadowy bosom, ought to lead to
weeks of S.R.O. The motif is weird and original, and
there are enough angels in it to make it eligible for Sun-
day performances. By-the-by, I hear that Kowalski in-
tends to conduct with big white wings on to add to the
realism of the thing—hut I will probably correct this
report in a later edition.
This brief advt. from a Sydney daily is rather apropos,
coming on top of the B. and B. matinee in aid of the
Women’s College, isn’t it?
VOUNG LADY, University certificate, wishes to he
Pupil Teacher, Mother’s Help, or Nursery
Governess.
Poor thing! She has struggled through her isms and
ologies and computed painfully that A is equal to B, and
that three sides of a triangle are X plus a Chinese character,
and has burnt the midnight taper over the pre-Adamite
habits of the ichthyosaurus, and now she advertises for
the lowly position of a “mother’s help”—and won’t get
that probably. Yet Sydney is trying to beg, borrow or
steal thousands to institute a special college to turn this
kind of drug on to the market! No one recognises more
than I do the benefits of education. A cook who used
good English would be a very soothing domestic adjunct.
But, unfortunately, whenever Miss Hermione Smith, of
the registry-office, begins to suspect syntax she advertises
herself a governess.
A few days ago a Maoquarie-street matron advertised
for a general servant. The following morning at about
11 o’clock she was informed that somebody had called in
answer to the advertisement and was waiting to
see her. On entering the room downstairs she dis-
covered two vulgar-looking women gorgeously attired in
brilliant-coloured dresses, large hats adorned with bright
feathers, parasols, gloves, hand-bags, &c., &c., the tout
ensemble comprising all the colours of the rainbow. The
women were conversing in quite a familiar way, and the
would-he employer surmised they must be friends. Ad- ■
dressing them she asked, “Are you sisters or are you
friends ? ” The larger and if possible more gorgeous of
the pair bounced forward and said, “Oh, we’re friends,
you know, I don’t want the situation myself, but I want
it for this young lady,” pointing to her companion. The
mistress of the house took in the situation at a glance;
“ I’m afraid,” she said, “ you have mistaken, my adver-
tisement altogether. I don’t require a young lady ; I
advertised for a general servant.” Whereupon the young
ladies “ exeunted.”
“ Rome ” papers tell us that the “ improver has gone
out.” Of course it has. Just listen to my new and
beautiful poem:—
They danced a waltz with throbbing beats,
The while she blushed and smiled and fanned.
But he looked dazed—as one who sleeps
And knoweth naught on sea or land.
The music ceased. They walked before
A mirror with its varied charm,
When, with a clearing brow, he saw
His partner no improver wore.
He’d missed the restlet for his arm !
As “the firm” have secured the Australian rights of
“Gondoliers,” it will interest the bald to hear that “ the
dresses worn by the female singers are something briefer
in petticoats than is usual in Gilbert and Sullivan—in fact
(happy fact!), their skirts don’t reach below their knees.”
Heretofore there has been no encouragement to the
anatomical student in any of the series. There isn’t even
' an ankle in Pinafore, Patience, Ida, Pirates, and the rest,
and I know a man who “never hawks his—aw—glasses to
G. and S.” The rest of the dressing is said to be good,
but not up to “Mikado,” or those gorgeous academic
robes in “ Princess Ida.”
And what do you say to this?—
A N exceptional motherly young person would go as
housekeeper to man with small family, personal
reference ; open three days. Alice W.
In a case of this kind “ personal refs.” are, of course, “ I
am sft., golden hair, and big brown eyes. I wear No. 3
shoes and my last employer called me Tottie.” And,
speaking of advts., the recent bad season seems to have
affected the little silken purselets of the Sydney damsels
in an incomprehensible degree, for “Would kind gentle-
man lend young lady ” (they’re always particular to stick
that adjective in) “five pounds?” occurs to-day, while
“ Would kind gentleman oblige young widow with five
pounds ?” appears to-morrow. The widdy and the giddy
are one and the same, of course. I wonder if she ever gets
her money, and if the “ kind gentleman ” who advances it
hugs the vain delusion that he will ever see the colour of
it again ?
A handsome Sydney theatrical manager, who sometimes
condescends to tram it, went the twopenny Dan to Beer-
sheha the other morning eating peaches the whole way.
No sooner had one gone into his rosebud mouthlet than
another followed in rapid succession, for he didn’t wait to
skin them. A friend, who was fascinated into watching
the fruit disappear, said reflectively : “ Peaches don’t suit
him—it ought to be tarts.” And then the tram stopped.
Anybody who thinks Sydneyites are a music-loving
people should attend the “Midsummer Night’s Dream”
at Her Majesty’s and listen to the chatter while the dainty
overture is playing. Not one in ten regards the music in
any other light than a necessary noise to fill in the gaps
before the rag rises, and even that beautiful string move-
ment is played to a loud hum of odious commonplaces.
For to bandy remarks of the “ No, Maria hasn’t got the
whooping-cough after all” calibre, is deemed a greater
privilege to the ordinary dress-circle Sydneyite than to
sit steeped in Mendelssohn’s fairy music. The Dream is a
marvellous show, and it never struck me before what a
good idea the fern brake is for dwarfing Watts-Phillips
and Go., who look more fairyish by reason of the ferns
towering above them. The yellow harvest ballet is encored
as of yore, but I think the management should induce at
least one dancer to put the rouge on with something
lighter than a spade, which is apparently the medium at
present for her fadeless blush. And, while I am in an
ungenerous mood, I might as well add that the Ass s ears
are getting decidedly “ cronk” and that Jewett shouldn t
twist his mustivvy like a dandy when Hermia s fate is
being decided, even if it is the fag-end of a long run.
And apropos of theatricals, I wonder some benefactor
of the “professional” race doesn’t think out possible
cheek-pads which would fill out hollow faces on a natuial,
not air-ball, plan, like the face-pad now vended. Some
actors and actresses have distressingly hollow cheeks,
though the dear creatures, somehow or other, never seem
to have hollow chests or ankles.
There was no music at the B. and B. matinee on 10th
inst., probably because long-haired Sydney resents being
tacked on to the end of the hill when the house vises to
catch its tram, and even fortissimo movements are
drowned in hoof-beats. A leading pianist told me that
he was once billed in beautiful perspective at a matinee,
and now if the management came to him on its knees he
would not contribute even “Lilia’s a Lady” with one
finger to relieve their direst need.
On dit that fashionable America sweetens its five o clock
tea with rock candy and finds it very good. Fashionable
Sydney sweetens with scandal and finds it even better.
People who don’t follow up art matters with eagle-like
intentness complain to me of having spent hours in the
Sydney Art Shed trying to find the “ Widower.” The
reason that they are not successful is that it is now not
there, the surface having blistered “ owing to had glazing,
or more likely owing to the defectiveness of the aitists
materials. The “Widower” is now in England being
re-varnished. Pictures resemble humanity in more than
colouring, after all. Many Australian widowers go to
London when they want to get patched up.
The activity of N.S.W. cremationists has put the ghouls
on their metal—the very latest suggestion (in the Sydney
Morning Herald) for the disposal of the dead being to
fix them up in coffins surrounded by wet cement “ which
would dry into stone.” The originator of this brilliant idea
declares that “no water, worms, or decay, would enter
there,” evidently overlooking the fact that we carry our
decomposition along with us, as it w - ere. By-the-by, if
the new - cement coffin came in, the man who has a big
family death-rate might use them as verandah-posts and
lean pensively against Jane in the moonlight compre-
hending vaguely that Henrietta was getting out of plumb.
All going well, ere this reaches the outside world Miss
Cox, of Sydney, will, with the kind assistance of the
authorities of St. Janies’ Church, Sydney, have become
Lady Bertie. In the long ran the lady will he Countess
of Lindsey.
Yours affectionately,
SAPPHO SMITH.
CORRESPONDENCE
“E.W.”: The South Metropolitan Gas Co.’s
men do not object to the principle of profit-sharing, but
to the enslaving conditions with which it is saddled....
“P. M. Drake”: The assertion that it was Dr. Livingstone
who stumbled across Stanley is generally understood to
mean that, whereas Livingstone was never “ lost ” in
Africa, Stanley probably would have been lost if the
Doctor had much longer kept out of his way. Is there
anything in the latter’s own letters to show that he was
in anyway benefited by Stanley’s “newspaper” expedition?
. ..“Robert J ” (Croydon); Not a bad little story—
but you should have allowed the squatter to find the letter
for himself.... “ Scat.”: A good story, but one involving
a choice libel. The point of the thing, you see, lies in the
names.... “ W.R.H.” (Cooma): In the Purcell papers...,
“Wellington”: We don’t want to exaggerate the im-
portance of Mi - . Brandon.... “ J.R.P.”: If your verses are
original, how do you account for the fact that you
speak of July as a summer month ? July is summer
in England and the verses have a Piccadilly smack.
....“Frodsby and C.”: There is nothing in it....
“ Nellie Raymond ” ; A rather lame and very womanish
kind of story—in print but good to tell orally
.... “ Otto W. J.” : The cue for a good article
“ Wild Margherita ” : Sorry to say it is painful drivel....
“J.W. Watkins” (Glebe): The verses are included,...
“ Hugh V.” (Mackay, Q.): Will you guarantee its
originality ?....“ G.J.M.” : “ Black Sheep ” hardly good
enough... “ A.R.A.” ; Improbable nonsense... “ Botany ”:
Local doggerel—and, you see, The Bulletin isn’t a local
paper “ The Gibber ”: A rather weak sketch.... “ A
Remarkable Man ” : Sheol and New Zealand are full of
such men “ A.K.0.” : A legal technicality of purely
local interest “ G.H.J.” : Scarcely suitable
“M.D.”; Old as the hi 115.... “ H.J.G.” (Punt-road); Good
yarn—for a commercial travellers’ dinner. Why not send
something more easily printable? “Investigator ':
Undecipherable; returned “Rowallan ”: “ Off Colour.”
.... “ Eliad ” ; The metre in which the “ Cry ”is written
requires the pen of a Shelley “ Republican Always
glad to hear from y0u.... “ Albula ”: “ Many thanks.”—
“Enquirer”: Progress committees are not interested in
party movements, but the man who takes the chair at a
banquet to a politician is rightly looked on as a partisan,
.... “ Holly Tree ” : Many thanks....“ O.W.J” : Thanks.
Very fair indeed...“H.C.S.” :It limps badly...“ Boom •
After all, there seems no reason why a police-superinten-
dent should be specially debarred from such trans-
actions. They all do it “ A Traveller ”: To publish
“ Dear Joe’s Letter ” would be the most horrible cruelty.
We presume that “dear Joe,” wicked, nasty man, has
been writing, not to you, but to his other girl “ H,
Macnanamy ” ; Not having time to look up the articles
we can’t tell you their date, but you may have the use of
a file at the office “Harold B.” : Will read
“ An Undetected Crime ” : Name and address, please.
“Hookey Walker”: Thanks .. “Your Stella”: We’re
just about tired of Stella, and so very likely is the old
man “ Gippsland ” : Thanks “Arthur H.C.”: V\ ill
read and consider. . “ F.M.” (Sydney); We haven’t seen
the “ Queer Dowry,” but are enquiring “Australian”
(N. Queensland): An echo of sentiments already ex-
pressed in The Bulletin. ...“ \eritas ” : Thanks....
“G.S.A.”: Sounds like an echo of something met before
....“Bio”: So far you belie the promise of your youth.
The Echo is not rhythmic, and is, moreover, decidedly
chaotic and comparatively meaningless.. H. 8.” (Bega). -
Clumsy and inharmonious.—[Many letters held over j
A Remembrance.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
A sorrow’s crown of sorrow
Is remembering happier things.
—Tennyson.
So—Here it was she sate and shed
Into my very soul her grandeur and
Her glory. One waft of perfume here recalls
Her smile, which now is this mad bigot’s creed.
Ah ! Why should fancy’s lies beguile
The heart in which immortal fires of passion
Burn? Burn! Aye! And shall the living
Flames e’er turn to ashes cold and gray ?
Who but a fool of fools, once knowing
Her sweet influence could look beyond
For any change, save that from love
To love still lovelier ? And yet, erstwhile,
The very thought begot grim anguish on tics
brow
So often cooled to peace by her sweet kisses.
* # *
The snowy gull sinks on the ocean’s bosom
With a hushed sob of joy, because therein
Its weary wings can find the cooling rest
That knows no thought save that of peace ;
And here in this spot, hallowed to me
By memories of eld, and rushing breaths
That from the lips of love once fed the bl'o
Of life’s immortal flowers—l sink
Into the deep waves of this ocean tide
So sweetly bitter with its buried worlds of hope
And wistful fond remembrances that e'en
In this far day rush thro’my soul like peals
From out the great grave organ, echoing in their
swell
Along the aisle of memory’s cathedral—
So—let me rest and press this last and
Only tribute that of her remains— Remembrance,
HERBERT C. SHAW.


A GHOST
is not a photograph, nor a photo, a ghost—but a good photo, is a
true reflection of the original. For high-art photos, go to the
London Palace of Art, 10 Park-street, Sydney. Country photographers’ work from developement
to completion executed at lowest prices, Bromides a speciality, Staff of artists kept for working up.
JOY OF A COMMERCIAL TRAVELLER.
How sweet it is in foreign lands
To meet a friend who knows you,
Who rushes up with outstretched hands,
And almost overthrows you.
But, oh, how sad when that same friend
Whose joyous greetings thrill you,
Exclaims, as you both hands extend,
“ Lend me a fiver —will you ?”
“ A fiver, man, what an idea !
A fiver I was going to ask of you.
Join me in a glass of St. Louis Lager Beer,
Then I must bid you adieu.”
The Sun Typewriter only £3, in working
order, at Butcher and Mac Donnell, Hamilton-
street, Sydney.
Land at Perth, W.A., the best investment.
Plans from Intercolonial Investment Co., Ltd.,
96 Bathurst-ttreet, Sydney.
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
“ Kidney and urinary trouble is universal, and
the only safe and sure remedy is Dr. Soule’s
American Hop Bitters—rely on it.’’
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
„ t?oval “ Little Lord Fauntleroy.”
fHBATR ■ • 11 A Midsummer Night’s
Her Majesty Dream.”
“ Caste.”
Obiter Battle of Gettysburg.
School of Arts '.'i. Harry Rickards’ Company.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
theatre Royal “ Cinderella.”
Sn.vrFSs’s “ Two N ights m Rome."
Prilce •• • Begsrar Student.
Opera Hol se “ The W orld Against Her.”
St George’s Hall Variety Company
liotoria Hall “The Boston Ideal Co.
Deposed monarchy and flouted aristocracy
are amply avenged in the debasement of the
stage to the lower depths of flunkeyism. Little
Lord Fauntleroy” is now being played at
Svdney Royal. The novel of that name, written
bv Frances Hodgson Burnett, was dramatised
first by E V. Seebohm for the British stage and
proved a great financial hit, whereupon the
authoress, after a tedious law-suit, secured to
herself the sole right of stage-representation.
This was fatal, first to Seebohm (whose ver-
sion is spoken of as having been infinitely
the better —anyhow, it could not possibly be
worse than Mrs. Burnett’s), who committed
suicide, and, secondly, to the authoress whose
reputation for liberality of thought and high-
mindedness must now be gone for ever, ihe
moral, or rather, the immoral, is that your British
nobleman is a very different being to any other, a
higher organism, in fact; to the common herd he
may seem haughty, unfeeling, and even dissipated,
but that is due solely to their failure to appreciate
the subtleties of more complex natures. A lord
cannot be vulgar, doncherknow ; he may be reared
in the New York Bowery, or on the Rocks,
Sydney, or in Little Bourke-street, Melbourne,
may own an unpolished shoeblack as his dearest
friend, but, true to his finer instincts, must emerge
from the contrast unsmirched in all the gold-top
glory of hereditary god-like-ness. It is true that
the. Earl of Dorincourt speaks disparagingly
of his elder sons, but then, you are given to under-
stand that he was not to blame, their laches were the
result probably of nature’s vagaries, or some feminine
indiscretion, and, therefore, betray no flaw in
nobility as a divinely-organised institution. Any-
thing drearier than the first act of I auntleroy
we have not heard since Pastor Jefferis sailed,
and in one respect the piece has every claim
to the suitability for children for it,
in that it is an admirable soporific. There is
less sickly sentiment in the second act and infi-
nitely more boot-licking and ground-wallowing;
in fact, the two concluding acts are only rendered
tolerable by the appearance of a bold American ad-
venturess armed with a weighty husband-beater.
We were at a loss at first to account for this lady’s
popularity, but finally concluded that, like our-
selves, three-fourths of the audience longed to see
her bang the pompous, vulgar old earl, the obse-
quious lawyer, the lick-spittle flunkey, and the
idiotic storekeeper over the head with her lethal
weapon. As a fashion-plate the little Lord,
played by Olive Berkley with four changes
of costume, is very successful, she is shapely
and bonny, very graceful in repose, but decidedly
stiff in action and defective in enunciation;
“ Fauntleroy, ” however, is a confounded, young
prig, who could not exist for ten minutes except
as a “ freak of nature ” under a glass-case in a
dime museum. The firm, we believe, are spread-
ing their feathers over the “set” in Dorincourt
Castle. Tastes differ. Viewed with the eye of
a Wardour-street furniture-dealer, it may be irre-
proachable, but stage effect is not wholly a thing
of upholstery, and, to us, as a scenic effect, it was
crudely gaudy and inharmoniously inartistic.
Gracie Hopkins grips the bone of contention, the
name-part, next week. Sydney being cram-full
of wealthy snobs, and snobs who are not wealthy,
“ Fauntleroy ” will probably draw like a mustard-
blister,
** & *
A fine feature at Her Majesty’s, Sydney,
is the performance of those green-coated gymnasts,
the Trevoe Brothers. Their tumbling, somer-
saults, handsprings, serpent-like twinings and
divings from view are admirable, but their greatest
hit is made when they waddle on after the- manner
of some gigantic lizard, or the plesiosaurus of the
primeval forest. The effect is so perfectly in
harmony with the scene that it immeasurably aids
the observer in losing sight of the mimetic
character of the whole surroundings. No change
of performance is yet announced.
** * *
During the week Harry Rickards has done
good biz. at Sydney School of Arts with “ Bric-a-
Brac,” in which he introduces the popular “Good
boy, ’Any,” “ Over now with the ladies,” and, in
conjunction with Mrs. Rickards, a masher song,
“Bai Jove.” Fred. Davys is funny with a red-
hot proboscis at which cigars are kindled, by
whose light he is enabled to find the keyhole and
get upstairs at midnight without difficulty. The
popular Harry benefits on Monday, when he will
be assisted by many well-known artists in a
“monster programme.” The company skip to
Brisbane Gaiety on 22nd. “Spoons” will be
staged on Saturday, on which day the usual
matinee will be given.
* *r *
At Sydney Criterion the double bill has
drawn good houses throughout the week, and will
be replaced on Saturday, after a good three weeks’
run, by “ Caste. ” In the “ Balloon ” Miss Romer
makes the most of a small part, and Pattie Brown,
with even less to do, gets through it admirably in
spite of an evident desire to laugh just when she
should be highly tragic, at the eccentricities of
George Anson.
** * *
We have nothing new to say about the
Oyclorama except that John Burns is quite well,
thank you.
** * *
At Solomon’s Royal Museum, M. Provo,
the great sleight-of-handist, and the Midgets are
still on tap. By the way, Madame Zobeide, the
gipsy fortune-teller, has been summoned, under
some long extinct statute, to show cause why she
should not be burnt at the stake, or placed in the
stocks,
** * *
At Bondi the chief attractions are Pro-
, jssor Jensen with his wonderful illusions
Ilavia,” “Stella,” and “Galatea,” and Pro-
fessor Norris, the great trick-skater. The Min-
strels who have been performing there go shortly
on tour.
** * *
I’he benent to the Women’s College at
Sydney . Criterion realised about £2OO. The
'oyernor was present, and the house, barring the
gallery, was crowded, chiefly with ladies. Little
could be heard of “In Honor Bound,” owing to
he tramp of entering feet, but “Betsy” went as
well as of yore, though the Mrs. M'Manus of Mrs.
Brough being played without accent lost the fine
distinctive flavour imparted to it by Lu ol 'a Har-
wood.
** * »
The direful collapse of “ The Guv’nor ” at
Melbourne Princess’s made it necessary to send
for “ Our Boys,” who have been engaged to picnic
upon that old man’s resting place for one week
only. Saturday’s revival of Byron’s best paying,
but not best written, comedy was chiefly remark-
able for the conduct of Perkyn Middlewick.
After pronouncing his historical “ ultipomatum ”
and making a hurried exit amidst the inevitable
burst of applause, the irate butterman burst back
upon the scene and bowed his gratitude for a
demonstration which didn’t quite warrant such an
intrusion. Mr. Elton is not by any means the
most effective Middlewick seen in these
parts, his performance being hard, dry,
and chippy. A similar lack of unctuousness is
noticeable about the company in general, and the
whole show is only good in comparison with others
that might be a lot worse. Young Mr. Herbert
Flemming has no special turn for playing old men
like Sir Geoffrey Champneys, nor has Mr. Sass
the abandon of manner looked for in Charles
Middlewick. The Misses Williamson and Cowper,
however, are well contrasted as the two nice girls,
and Mr. Hans Phillipsis occasionally first-class in the
incomprehensible character of “My Son Talbot.”
Considering how long “Our Boys” has held the
stage it is odd to hear Charles Middlewick still
telling his father how delighted he was with the
ruins of Pompeii and Herculaneum, because the
latter city hasn’t been quite dug out of its shroud of
pumice-stone up to the present. On Saturday a
new drama entitled “ Two Nights in Rome ” is to
provide Miss Janet Achuroh with another oppor-
tunity. A fortnight later the alleged beauty,
Mrs. Brown-Potter, will make her first appear-
ance, in conjunction with Kyrle Bellew. The girls
must not expect too much of “Kurly,” for that
rare creature has altered considerably since he
earned a poor but honest living as casual reporter
for the Melbourne ’Eeald. He wears a great
shock of towzled grey hair, while the unwonted
affinity existing between his mouth and chin
renders the discovering of Kurly’s mouth in
the dark a matter of considerable difficulty.
“ Uncle Tom’s Cabin,” shorn of a little
extra superfluous nigger business, has been filling
the Opera House with the fullness characteristic
of Sheridan’s season from the first. One of L. L.
Smith’s bull-dogs—an animal quite old enough to
understand the value of unconventional adver-
tisement —tried to gnaw Sheridan last week,
under the impression that he was a bone, but the
intended victim found a haven of refuge among
the fiddlers. Mr. Smith’s dawg has a habit of
going for somebody, and it is a pity such a saga-
cious quadruped wasn’t present in the Legislative
Assembly when his owner struck up “ God Save
the Queen.” It might have devoured Gillies.
To-morrow (Friday) sees the last of Uncle Tom,
and on Saturday the Bracy Opera Company start
a five week’s warble with “ The Beggar Student.”
* * *
Other Melbourne programmes are running
out. At the Alexandra they are about taking off
“ Monte Christo ” preparatory to a further dose of
“ The World Against Her,” a drama specially
designed for ladies who have been unjustly rushed
through the Divorce Court. Meanwhile, “ Rob-
bery Under Arms ” is in course of careful fixing.
Also on Saturday a reversion to “ Good Old Mary
Ann,” and such things, will take place at St.
George’s Hall, while the “Boston Ideal C 0.,”
engineered by Frank Clark, are due at the rorty
little Yic. The last nights of “Cinderella” ter-
minate on the 21st, and a few other things look
healthy, as usual. Kreitmayer’s white-headed
aboriginal turns out to be a brown-haired child of
Nature, whose father or mother —not to say both
of them —probably came from Brummagem.
* *
Yours merrily, John R. Rogers, is just
now throwing off steam in London because some
soulless individual, upon whom Minnie Palmer
didn’t “grow,” has alluded to that fragile angel
as a “variety artist.” It appears that Minnie
claims to be a high-class actress on the strength of
having played Titania, and Dot in “ Cricket on
the Hearth.” Which reminds us that Professor
Miller, who has appeared in Shakespearian plays
here and in the States, might get mad if we called
him an athlete. By the way, it is reported that
Minnie Palmer’s diamonds turned green with envy
on hearing of the countless millions which Carrie
Swain and her husband made in silver-shares.
*# * *
English admirers of Sandow, the Strong
Man, were disturbed by a false rumour that he
was down with the measles. Had there been any
truth in that yarn we might expect to be told that
Ajax used to suffer from the mumps, and the late
lamented Goliath had chilblains. Something was
wrong, however, as Sandow was absent for some
time from the Aquarium where he earns £l5O per
week.
* * *• *
Two thousand live hundred alleged actors
and actresses demanded tickets for a professional
matinee of “ The Gondoliers ” at the Savoy
Theatre.
They say that Madame Melba and her
rival prima-donna are shaking their gory locks in
sweet womanly strife at Paris Opera House. Each
songstress, apparently, has ideas of her own re-
specting the allotment of parts, and each fresh
production entails much weeping and gnashing of
teeth, terminated by both of them making a hur-
ried descent upon the manager’s room, where they
proceed to beat the impresario with bits of furni-
ture in a mad endeavour to coerce him into giving
the other nasty cat notice to scoot. After ex-
hausting their fury the goddesses go off into
hysterics and commence to claw the air, while
the poor manager, who has sought refuge from
the hurly-burly under a sofa, feebly exhorts
them not to think any more about it. He
has passed a good deal of his lifetime in pre-
serving rival singers from murder and sudden
death, but rumour alleges that his reason is
gradually giving way under present afflictions.
He gets no respite from these lovely women, any-
how. When not working up a “scene” in his
room they waylay him, one at a time, and demand
to know what he*intends to do about that abomin-
able creature, the other one. And by every post
he receives two pink perfumed letters imploring
him to insist upon the spiteful thing’s instant
resignation. It is Australia versus America to a
finish.
*& * *
An American writer says:—“lt is whis-
pered that Mr. and Mrs. Langtry have kissed and
made up and that the old gentleman no longer
occupies the hall bedroom, so to speak. ’ There
may be something in it, for Mrs. Langtry has been
ill. “ When the Devil was sick,” &c.
* * *-
The Nugget Theatre, Melbourne, is de-
molished. L. L. Smith built it as the Polytechnic,
for Vazie Simon’s scientific lectures and Geral-
dine Warden’s singing, to which followed Birch,
with his clever panorama, the Holiday Trip in
Europe. L.L. used to lecture, too, on the Ana-
tomical Venus. Every mortal thing has been
tried at the Nugget. Count Moreton de Chapelle
changed the Polytechnic into the Theatre
Comique. Chapelle afterwards became major
domo to Napoleon 111., and wrote a history of
the Franco-German War, from his own experi-
ences. A little French company tried the house,
the principal being Mdlle. Andree, but they
could do no more good than the Navaros in
French pieces, or than Tessero’s French troupe.
Sam Emery afterwards changed the name
again to the Duke’s Theatre, opening with his
Touche in “ Plot and Passion,” wdiioh he had
originally acted in London, to the Desmarets of
Robson. Next the little theatre took the name of
the Nugget, but never paid. The Poverty Pointers
had a few innings, with “Jack Sheppard,”
“ Octoroon,” or whatever came handy getting an
occasional rise. Cottier came from Sydney, think-
ing to raise a boom and the Nugget became
Cottier’s Theatre, another of its names having
been Hudson’s Theatre, and lastly, it was the
Hall of Science. The Y.M.C.A. bought the
place to shut Joe Symes’ mouth, and he went to
his new Hall of Science. Many souvenirs wreathe
round the old Nugget.
vie tJc
Why doesn’t J. C. Williamson (who will
play “ Struck Oil ” during his approaching fort-
night’s stay in California) take another turn on
the Australian boards ? Probably no other actor
of his high class, and of equal popularity, has
been so content to sniff the battle from afar
without rushing forward into the footlights’ glare.
It is a pity—not to say downright sad-that
Williamson doesn’t write himself a friendly letter,
offering that distinguished performer a short
engagement. He is allowing the heyday of his
hot youth to glide peacefully adown the golden
stream of annual profits, without stretching forth
his strong right hand to pluck the green laurels
that fringe the river’s banks. If that crazy burst
of metaphor doesn’t stir the senior Triumvir up to
a sense of duty, it must be presumed that he has
grown too rich to undertake more study.
** * »
The late B. N. Jones was a rare magazine
of theatrical lore, and unique in his recollections
of Lola Montes. One time Lola was acting at the
Sandhurst theatre, in the “Little Devil,” and a
thunderstorm came on, the lightning shivering
one of the boards of the stage, so they say. Lola
complimented the stage manager on the excellence
of his effects. One of Jones’ pet characters was
Hoyley Snayle in “ Sentenced to Death.”
* -* * *
The Solomon-Bracy company finish up
their season at the Theatre Royal Adelaide, with
three nights of English Opera—“ Maritana” and
“The Bohemian Girl.” The season, taken alto-
gether, has not been a financial success; but the
hot weather, not the performances, has been to
blame, for Lilian Tree and others are firmly-
established favourites. The theatre will now T
remain closed for an indefinite period.
At Poverty Point.
Through the kindness of the management, on the last
night of the Sydney Royal pantomime a hundred boys
from the training ship Vernon were present in the front
rows of the stalls. There is nothing like a leg-show for
reforming the wicked street arab.
Thus Modern Society The Australian actress, Miss
Myra Kemble, fairly justified advance reports concerning
her. She is not beautiful, but her face is pleasant, her
figure and carriage are graceful and feminine, and her
voice is musical. In short, she is just such a woman as a
hlasi roue like Philip O’Mara would like to settle down
with after sowing the last of his wild oats.
London Figaro points out that Toole’s visit to Australia
will not necessarily be successful. “ For he is not youth-
ful enough to adapt himself to altered circumstances and
in Australia he will not have his old affectionate friends
to deal with; on the contrary, he will be looked upon
somewhat as an interloper who voluntarily enters into the
arena with comedians whom the loyal colonists would not
like to see vanquished. Very certain it is that compari-
sons will be made, and when it is a matter of doubt Mr.
Toole will not get the benefit of it. At the present time,
not only does Australia boast of a good crop of excellent,
home-produced histrions, but the stock is leavened by a good
supply of English and American produce. Not less than
four comedians who have at one time and another done
good work at our own Gaiety are now disporting in the
colony. Such actors as Edward Royce, William Elton,
Robert Brough, and George W. Anson have been for
some years showing the Australian folks what they can
do, and as one or two of these have founded their style
considerably on that of Mr. Toole, the last-named may,
when he gets to Australia, even be suspected of imitating
his imitators. This will be adding insult to injury.”
Willie Edouin has obtained a lease of the Strand
Theatre, London. Willie is well-known to old Australian
playgoers as the precocious “ kid ” of the Edouin troupe
of juvenile comedians who struck it rich here 30 years
ago. Mrs. G. B. W. Lewis, of Melbourne, is a sister (Rose),
another (Julia) married a Chinese Mandarin of goodness
knows how many buttons, when the troupe visited China
some years ago.
B. N. Jones, stage and business-manager to the Trium-
virate, who died at Goulburn of peritonitis, was a native
of Sydney, but had, in his younger days, about five years
experience on the American stage. As an actor, his chief
successes were attained in Polonius, Sir Peter Teazle and
Beacon Skinner. His last appearance in Sydney was with
Jennie Lee, as the Coroner in “ Jo,” his last public utter-
ance was an apology for the non-appearance of Maggie
Knight, in the “ Ticket-of-Leave-Man.” It is said that
the inception of the disease that carried him off was the
hasty gulping down of an iced drink at Wagga, while
prostrated by the heat experienced in Melbourne and
Albury, and this was followed by an injudicious exposure
to the’cold night winds that prevail on the table-lands be-
tween that town and Goulburn. “ 8.N.” was buried in
Wavcrley cemetery on Saturday last in the presence of
many members of the profession. He was a fine specimen
of a man, with good-nature stamped alike upon his
face and heart. His death will everywhere be heard of
with the deepest regret, and he will be affectionately re-
membered by all who ever k new him
Julius Siede, for 18 years conductor of the Melbourne
Liedertafel, retires, from ill-health. In the good old days
of G. V. Brooke and the Royal, Siede’s flute solos were a
special line in the bills.
The Glasgow Salvationists have parodied “ I have a song
to sing O!" and the opening lines now run—
“ I have a soul to save, O !
Lord save my soul O !”
This parody is seemingly even more humorous than that
sung by G. IV. Anson at festive gatherings.
G. R. Sims is much annoyed at the influx to London of
French drama. As he had, when he wrote, a drama run-
ning at the Princess’s, a farce at the Olympic and Opera
Oomique, an opera at the Royalty, and a play at the
Vaudeville, he has not much to growl about.
B. and B. may possibly open the Bijou on Bth March.
“Money”—a gooa omen—will be their first representa-
tion.
The Melbourne Royal has never missed a Christmas
Pantomime but once since the opening of the old house in
in 1855, the exception being 1865, when Lyster produced
Weber’s spectacular opera of ‘Oberon.’ The pantomime
subjects have been ‘ Magician’s Daughter,’ ‘ Rule of
Three,’ ‘ Whittington ’ twice, ‘ Robin Hood,’ ‘ Humpty
Dumpty’ twice, ‘ Jack Horner,’ ‘Arabian Nights,’ ‘Valen-
tine and Orson,’ ‘ Lalla Rookh,’ ‘ Enchanted Island,’ ‘Gul-
liver’s Travels,’ ‘Tom the Piper’s Son,’ ‘Robinson Crusoe’
twice, ‘House That Jack Built,’ ‘Jack the Giant Killer’
twice, ‘ Froggie Would A Wooing Go,’ ‘ Riquet with the
Tuft,’ ‘ Sinbad ’ twice, ‘ Forty Thieves,’ ‘ Twinkle Little
Star,’ ‘Cinderella’ twice, ‘ Boy Blue,’ ‘Mother Goose,’
‘ lley-diddle-diddlc.’ Harwood was long the backbone of
the pantomime, and appeared with Sir William and Lady
Don in the pantomime of ‘Valentine and Orson.’
The probable delay in opening Melbourne Bijou is said
to be due to the difficulty in obtaining slate for the
“escape” staircases. W. B. Spong, assisted by Tom
Roberts, has designed the new act-drop “Comedy
banishing Melancholy.”
There will be a regular exodus of theatrical entrepren-
eurs by the Alameda. Lawrence Foley sails in her taking
with him two champion pugs, Jem Hall and Gnffo.
Larry will second Jackson in his next big ’Frisco fight.
Florence Monk-Meyer, the eminent piaiiiste, will shortly
make her first appearance before a Sydney audience. Her
stay will not be long, as she intends to tour the States.
Luscombe Searelle’s South African Opera Company has
been reinforced by Verdi and his friend, Emelie Melville.
Mrs. Brown-Potter and Kyrle Bellewopen in “Camille”
at Melbourne Princess’ on March 1.
J. C Williamson (according to the N.Y. papers due
there in January) sails for America in the Alameda on 19th
inst. He plays “ Struck Oil ”in ’Frisco (his last appear-
ance there was in ’79) at the urgent request of some old
friends. Maggie Moore has acted as agent in advance.
He is likely to engage (among other celebrities) Sah ini,
the Italian tragedian.
On Monday next (17th inst.), George Rignold will throw
open the gallery of Her Majesty’s to the impecunious
little ones of Sydney and their feminine caretakers. Cakes
and fruit will be handed round during the acts under the
direction of Dr. Roth, and the curtain will rise at seven
promptly.
The first noteworthy scene-painter in Melbourne was
.old Billy Pitt, who won his spurs at London Lyceum. He
painted for the Melbourne Olympic, Coppin’s Iron Pot,
and for the Royal. His forte was transformation scenes.
He was the image of Shakespeare when made up, and
stood for Shakespeare in a tableau by the Garrick Club
when landlord of the Garrick’s Head, Bourke-street, where
he had a great collection of theatrical pictures. lie
carried on in the same style as Gus Wangenheim, in
Sydney. Pitt’s son, another Billy, all in compliment to
the great .Commoner, is much alive. He designed the
Melbourne Princess Theatre, and is the author of the new
and magnificent comedy theatre which is to spring up on
the corner of Bourke and Russell streets, site of Tom
Nunn’s old Hummums.
.“ Ye Sydney Brash Clubbe ” art union came off on
Saturday afternoon last in the Musical ins'itute, when in
addition to the pictures painted by members, several,
generously contributed by J. R. Ashton, F. P. Mahony,
A. H. Full wood, 0. H. Hunt, B. E. Minn’s, A. Collingridge,
and Otto Fischer, were drawn by ballot. In the evening
a smoke concert was held, presided over by Mr. L. Hop-
kins, a prize-winner, when much singing, reciting, and
speechifying, interspersed with moments of bibulation
passed off a very pleasant evening.
Frank Marshall, the husband of Ada Cavendish, and the
author of “ False Shame,” is dead.
The Sydney Criterion working hands picnic at The
Avenue on Sunday next.
Mr. Francis Simpson, late of the Albury
Custom-house, denies that he has proceeded for
libel against any paper.
“Have you seen ‘Little Lord Fauutle•
roy?’” “Yes.” “ Then drink Marshall’s Tonic
Nervine. It will save your life.”
On Saturday morning Surgeon Fitzgerald
shook his head ominously when asked how Barken
was doing It was a serious collapse for any man
75 years of age. His best chance of surviving was
a continuance of the change to cool weather.
Meanwhile McMillan told all enquirers that
Parkes ate a tremendous breakfast and was nearly
all right.
There was some foundation to Labouchere’s
yarn about Norman intending to resign the
Queensland Governorship. Norman has been in-
sinuating for a long time that he’ll resign if the
Bananalanders won't raise his screw, and this is
what London Truth must be talking of. It was
just a little bit of cheap “bluff ” that fell Hat be-
cause Queensland doesn’t care a rap whether it is
Norman who plunders it of £5OOO a year and
perks., or somebody else. It prefers nobody else,
as the imported Imperialistic touter is finding out.
One great advantage of introducing lady
choristers into the tabernacle lies in the certainty
that our beloved sisters will chasten the spirit of
the chief apostle, sooner or later. While good old
Dr. Bromby was in the flesh things progressed
harmoniously at Melbourne Pro-Cathedral, it is
true, because Mrs. Bromby was herself one of the
dimpled darlings in surplices, consequently the
choir had carte blanche in the matter of singing
praises to Heaven. It seems, however, that the
new shepherd—-one Rev. Stacey Chapman—has
been cutting down the weekly allowance of anthem
and reducing the quantity of hosannahs until the
little angels up aloft said'it was too bad, and they
wouldn’t stand it any more, there now ! So last
Sabbath morning the amateur female warblers in-
duced the amateur males (who are but as wax in
their 5| hands) to hold aloof from the sanctuary,
and leave three professional men and a profes-
sional organist, to grind out a feeble hallelujah the
best way they could. When the bald-headed old
lambs, addicted to waddling into the Pro-Cathedral
since it became a pious comic opera—when they
took their usual “liker” at the place where the
Maudies and Dollies ought to be, there were no
sweet little visions in flowing robes to reply with
a heavenly wink ; nothing but the three men and
an organist who are under a solemn engagement
not to leave the vineyard for a year. As it is
absolutely impossible to worship in spirit and in
terewth when there are only three men to sing
“ Amen,” a vigorous effort will be made to fix up
a fresh choir by next Sunday, but for this no
ladies need apply. Girls in surplices are things of
beauty, and a row for ever.


WOLFE’S SCHNAPPS!
»
Be on your guard for Frauds when purchasing.
Horsford’s Acid Phosphate
FOR NIGHT SWEATS
of consumption, gives speedy benefit.
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
The people of Sydney should remember
that for the finest and cheapest photos, they
should pay a visit to Chubb & Praeger, Empire
Galleries, 482 and 484 George-street, over Beales.
Queensland last year produced more gold
than Victoria by 122,822 ounces. Mount Morgan:
Photography. —Charlemont and Co. (vice-regal
photographers), in the Royal Arcade, beg to an-
nounce that they have now reduced the price of
their Cabinet Photographs to One Guinea per doz.
any style—bust, vignette or three-quarter figure.
Messrs. Charlemont feel assured that this reduc-
tion in price will meet the many who refrained
from sitting in their studio, solely on account of
the price hitherto being higher than they might
care to pay. Grosvenor Galleries, Royal Arcade.
Building Sites, City of Perth, W.A. Plans
Intercolonial Investment Co., Limited, 96 Bathurst
street, Sydney,
Use Bathos Baking Powder.
“Too Far Gone.”
A Chapter from the History of a Sydney
Adventuress.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
Thus a Melbourne paper recently :
Isabella Snellgrove, who got 12 months at the City
Court yesterday, is a most daring impostor. First of all
she commenced operations on an undertaker, from whom
she ordered a fashionable funeral for a deceased relative.
On the strength of this she borrowed a considerable sum.
She showed a woman named Ellen Swift a draft for
nearly £40,000, and succeeded in obtaining £l6 from her,
showing her gratitude by giving Swift a cheque for
£lOOO, and Julia Elizabeth Kaser one for £4O. She made
a desperate attempt to drown herself in the Yarra yester-
day, and when taken out made a second attempt.
This reminds me. The fair Bella graduated in
the undertaking line not, as might appear, in
Marvellous Smellbourne but in Sydney, whose
most successful undertaker is of the feminine
gender, and this graduation the maritime men
along 3000 miles of Australian coast are now tire-
lessly discussing. She is a daisy, and though “ a
sailor’s wife a sailor’s star should be ” the lady of
the funerals is one of those who often aren’t.
* # #
Bella tvas a shapely girl. She had a trim
ankle that would get loose from its moorings in
squally weather, and a Avaist that recalled the
leaning tower of Pisa and several of ’em. Of her
eyes and her hair and her mouth it is sufficient to
say that those who danced Avith her at Chowder
Bay dreamt of them for months afterwards ; and
Avhen she pattered along the pavement ahead of
you with her Avaist laced in to kill and her torso
bubbling up under her arms and her high-heels
beating a quick step to the swaying of her skirts
and the nodding of the floAvers in her absurd bow-
AvindoAV hat, you Avere prepared to accept her
shrill, tin-kettle, Botany Bay voice as musical
and the flour on her neck and rouge on her
cheeks as matter in the right place.
# * *
But Bella Avas not only shapely. She Avas
someAvhat shrewd. She had grown up Avhere the
girls knoAv a little and see a lot, and she had
begun to realise the grand axiom of our glorious
civilisation, which is that anybody Avho Avorks
hard is a fool. She had observed in her ramblings
that those Avho neither toil nor spin live on Pott’s
Point and. at St. Kilda, and receive invitations to
state dinners and Government House teas and
run tick at the big drapers’, and have two or three
lovers apiece without Mrs. Grundy being per-
ceptibly shocked That Avas what Bella admired
and she followed it Avith some little success until,
borne down by the big battalions of fate, she ran
foul of the Irav and got into gaol.
* * #
Being shapely and shreAvd, Bella Avas at
first somewhat successful, as has been observed,
the more so as she did not trust Avholly to her
shape, but traded on the avail ciousness of human
nature, a Aveakness which, from her oivn sensa-
tions, she felt to be considerable. In one of her
little adventures she Avas initiated (by a young
man Avho had £l5O a year “at the ledgers” and
wore an eye-glass) into the theory of bankers’
“ drafts,” and used her influence to such good pur-
pose that she became the happy possessor of a
document shoAving that she herself and nobody
else was entitled to ever so many thousands of
pounds, every copper of Avhich would soon be at
her absolute disposal. To cut a long story short
And reach the croAvning stroke of Bella’s genius,
die eventually brought herself and her draft to
oear upon “Jack,” of the mercantile marine, Avho
let his colours go by the run and sailed quietly
with her to the parson’s. That Avasn’t the croAvn-
ing stroke. Don’t get impatient. It is coming.
# * *
Bella Avas not a high-flyer. That she had
the financiering ambitions of a Gordon-Baillie will
be apparent, but her lot Avas cast in loAvlier places
and her Australian temperament Avith its arab-like
instincts kept her there. She might consort Avith
bank-clerks hoav and then, but her particular
associates Avere still her oavu people, those from
whom she had learnt the folly of trying to be
comfortable by the sweat of your oavu brow. And
it Avas accordingly natural for her to think that a
pound or tAvo a Aveek Avith no incumbrance wouldn’t
be half a bad investment for a girl of her calibre,
the said investment being assured by the paternal
government which has decided that marriages,
even if not registered in heaven, are yet suffi-
ciently uncertain to need policemen to Avatch
over them. So she marked her man and turned
her guns on him, and, aided by her draft and her
shape, bore him into port gallantly. He Avas a
good-looking felloAv and a little too smart, and not
given to liquoring, and only in Sydney once a
month or so ; and, besides his £7 a month as sea-
man, there was the “overtime” that ran to nearly
as much more under the fostering eye of the sec-
retaries of the Federated Seamen’s Unions of Aus-
tralasia. Altogether, it Avas as fine a capture as
was possible in Balmain or Woolloomooloo, en-
suring her a handsome groom Avhile the honey-
moon lasted and exemption from the constant
worry of lioav to live afterwards and untram-
melled leisure to live as she Avould neavly all the
time.
* * *
Only she miscalculated on “Jack;” the
son of the sea cares no more for the laws of the
land than do the birds of the air. Once “ Jack ”
got the scales fairly knocked off his eyes he dis-
appeared one fine morning and never came back.
He dropped doAvn to Newcastle, shipped aboard a
Yankee barque bound for Boston via Manilla,
and, ere Bella realised it, her weekly alloAvanee
had stopped and her capture Avas off on the bound-
ing billows. She had tried to gull him and he had
slipped. f’She had made eyes at him and spun
fairy-tales of the business they could start with
his savings and the money that Avas coming to her,
as witness the draft, and he had believed it all and
acted accordingly. But when he found that she
Avas heiress to nothing and aimed at living off him
Avithout working and Avas altogether too free Avith
the beer-mug, and generally “flyer” than he had
bargained for, he started quietly off on the long-
trip. Bless your hearts, sailors don’t want any
divorce law ! Love is the only hawser which can
moor them to the Avharf whereon stands lovely
woman waving her lily-Avhite hand.
* # *
Noav comes Bella’s crowning stroke, a bit
of genius from the sharping point of view—a
scheme that ought to make a swell-mobsman look
her up as a born leader of the “ crooked !” She
dressed herself in black and spread abroad the
news that poor Jack had died of fever in the hos-
pital and left her destitute. She wept on the
bosoms of those who came to see her. She flat-
tered the sailowner who dropped in to console
with wild rehearsals of the beauties of the sailor
character as exemplified in her Jack. And it was
felt in a great rush of sympathy that spread all
round Middle Harbour, and from Middle Harbour
to Thursday Island and Port Pirie that here was
a weeping widow for whom on next pay-day a
purse should be made up just to show her, you
know, that the lass who loves a sailor need never
hunger or thirst. This was what the weeping-
widow was after. She was playing for that purse,
and but for a voice from the grave she would have
got it.
* # *
To an undertaker’s she went and ordered
a coffin and a hearse and fixing, all good style and
to be paid for by the sailor-men. Back to the
undertaker’s she went a second time and sobbing,
told her sad story and begged the undertaker to
help her.
“ H-h-hee was m-m-married before,” she wailed.
“And I n-never knew it, and now his first w-wife
has come from Melbourne and o-elaimed the
bo-ody. What am I to do ? Everybody will
know now that I w-wern’t his lawful w-wi-wife !”
The undertaker sympathised. Even under-
takers become sympathetic with good-looking
widows, but he didn’t see any way out of it.
“ C-c-oouldn’t you hold a f-funeraland b'-b-burj
the c-co-coffin ? ” she entreated, gazing at him
with tear-shining tears.
“ Impossible !” cried the undertaker.
“ J-just to please me,” she begged, getting all
her attractions into working order, and wonder-
ing if it would help to show him the draft that
had settled Jack.
“ I really couldn’t, my dear madam,” ex-
plained the undertaker, in an exculpatory man-
ner, feeling it hard to refuse such an innocent re-
A TERRIBLE THREAT.
IRATF CUSTOMER (to landlord of our pub.): “DO YOU CALL THIS WHISKY?
IT’S POISON, SIR! AND I HAVE A GOOD MIND TO HAVE IT
ATTESTED BY THE GOVERNMENT ANARCHIST.”
and Bella with it. And if you want to know any
more about it just read the above extract setting
forth Bella’s fate, or ask any coasting seaman
whether he thinks Jack’s corpse was too far gone.
quest to such an interesting widow. “It would
be illegal, and I haven’t a certificate of death.”
However, seriously as this affected her scheme,
Bella wasn’t the woman to be checkmated without
a struggle.
“You could send a coffin to the house to-night
and take it away early to-morrow,” she urged ;
“ I’ve told all the neighbours, and they’ll all know
there’s something wrong if I don’t do anything,
and then, think how I’ll 100k —they knowing he
was married before.” And at the bare thought
Bella wept afresh.
The undertaker yielded. The coffin came that
day, and beside it sat Bella weeping and wailing,
refusing to be comforted and narrating the sor-
rows of a sailor’s wife. It was a rich comedy,
staged in real life in Sydney, and if it hadn’t
been that Jack had a mate in whom he confided,
and to whom he had written from Newcastle, it
would not have leaked out to this day. But Bill,
Jack’s mate, tramps into the room where the
coffined corpse was being “ waked ” and demanded
to see his old friend.
“ You can’t,” declared Bella, on the defensive.
“ And why not, I’d like to know ? ” demanded
Bill, Jack’s letter in his pocket.
“ He’s too far gone,” asserted the widow.
“Too far gone I I should think so,” retorted
Bill. “ Gone on a long trip in a Yankee barqiie.
Jack’s no more dead than I am, and if he is,
missus, just show him to us.”
They adjourned the debate ultimately till next
morning, and next morning the coffin was gone
W. L.
Their New Mamma.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
“ How is the old man this morning? Have you
heard ? ”
“ Oh, I’m sorry to say he is a good deal better.”
The speakers were sons-in-law of wealthy old
Morton Tucker, formerly so well known both in
Victoria and New South Wales, as a railway-con-
tractor. The old man was a widower and had
three daughters, all fairly ugly, and one son. The
daughters had some affection for their father, who
indeed was really kind to them, but their brother,
as well as their husbands, found the time all too
long that Morton Tucker took to shuffle off this
mortal coil. He was perpetually falling ill, but
his sickness was very loth to take a fatal turn.
* * #
The old man and his son had lived together
until recently, when, on the younger man’s mar-
riage, a separate household was set up for him, and
it became a matter of discussion amongst the
family what steps in respect to their father were
necessary to protect their joint interests, for it would
seem that their interests required watching. It is
a painful thing to have to say in these very moral
times and in a moral paper, but, old as he was,
there was a strong suspicion that the venerable Mr.
Tucker indulged in a liaison with a young woman
in the suburbs. To make sure of this, the family
had employed a private detective, and, needless
to relate, the information obtained was of a very
striking and detailed character. But detective
stories are generally of this nature—given an old
man and a young woman, the ordinary detective
will fill in the blanks just as his employer would
like to see them filled in. In Mr. Tucker’s case
there was probably an equal mixture of lying and
truth in the report furnished. However that may
have been, the family were intensely agitated by
whatthey learnt, foramongst otherthings thedetee-
tive reported the old man’s infatuation to be so
great that he would probably marry the IoW-minded
hussy at an early opportunity if permitted to do
so. Such an outrageous step was, of course, not
to be allowed by his loving relations, to whom
his good name and happiness were so dear. A
family conclave accordingly met and decided that
vigorous efforts were needful to ward off the
danger, and as Morton Tucker would not tolerate
the presence of either of his daughters in his
household for reasons not unconnected with the
squawks of their respective babies, it was agreed
that he should be provided with a dragon of some
kind to keep watch and ward against the enemy
in petticoats. But how was the watch to be estab-
lished? The old man already had a housekeeper,
but it was, with some show of evidence, sus-
pected that she was a party to the liaison, for
it was when on a visit to her that the suburban
creature had made Morton Tucker’s acquaintance.
* * #
The question of how to proceed might
have remained long unsolved had not Dame For-
tune smiled on their efforts in the cause of
morality. Old Morton Tucker grew very, very ill.
He had, been looking at the rum when it was
red and the sight thereof had overcome him.
Now, it happened also that the housekeeper had
looked lovingly on the balmy fluid in its redness
and had fallen sick ; so when the trio of daughters
visited their father they indignantly sent the
woman about her business, and the old man, to
whom exaggerated accounts of her conduct were
given, endorsed their action. The next step was
to install a successor, whom they had ready in
Mrs. Loftus, a woman of large physique and
plain features. This person was a washerwoman
to one of Tucker’s daughters, and had earned ;
sterling reputation for faithfulness. the was;
grass-widow with one child, and had first enlisti (
sympathy by a pitiful tale of her husband's doer
tion and cruelty and by the deolarath n that ii
was only her religious scruples, which prevente
her seeking a divorce. The tears of gratitude
flowed copiously from the poor woman’s eyes
when she heard that to her had beerf given th‘,
task of looking after Mr. Tucker’s household.
* # *
Most daughters would have had some
compunction in detailing the reputed eccentrici-
ties of their father. Nut so these good ladies, for
Mrs. Loftus was minutely informed by them
of Morton Tucker’s carryings-on in the suburbs,
as well as of sundry other offences of which he was
probably guiltless. They impressed on the house-
keeper the absolute necessity of keeping the old
man out of harm’s way, but they could not ask too
much, for Mrs. Loftus was gratefully prepared for
any labour on behalf of her patrons. And well
she keep her word. Under her watchfulness the
old man, when he recovered, showed no disposition
to fall again into evil courses, and one day when
the.suburban resident impudently dared to visit
Mr. Tucker’s house, she was gallantly thrashed olf
the premises by the redoubtable Mrs. Loftus. The
spirits of the son and sons-in-law and their wives
brightened at the alteration in their father’s con-
duct. They rejoiced as the angels do over the
sinner that repents, and they praised Mrs. Loftus
as the agent by whom, under Heaven, the happy
issue was consummated. And thus the months
quietly, slipped by. Mrs. Loftus continued to
watch over Morton Tucker’s household and was
as obsequious as the ladies—his daughters—could
desire. They were charmed accordingly.
* * #'
The old man had been accustomed, for
many years, to give four entertainments during
the year in commemoration of his children’s natal
days. These entertainments took the shape of
dinner-parties, and were held on the Sunday
within the octave of each birthday. On such
occasions Mr. Tucker was wont to be very generous,
and, needless to say, in this impecunious age,
the festivities were looked forward to with great
interest by the family. As the celebration ap-
proached one of the sons-in-law heard something
which he failed not to impart to his wife, nor
she to her sister. It was that Mrs. Loftus was
not a grass widow —she had never been married.
This was shocking and necessitated another family
conclave. Thereat it was decided that the three
ladies should speak to the so-called Mrs. Loftus,
and point out how impossible it was that so
respectable an old gentleman as Mr. Tucker should
be associated with a woman who had a daughter,
but who, sad to say, had never been married. It
was, however, decided that this communication
with Mrs. Loftus should be made after the coming
family party, as it would be unwise to upset the
old man and po a °ibly impede the flow of his
generosity.
* # *
The day of jubilation came at length.
Mrs. Loftus, like the rest, was dressed in her
“ store ”-clothes in honour of the event, and
showed, as Mr. Tucker, junior, had not failed to
observe, a doosid good figure. The old gentleman
behaved even better than usual in the matter of
his monetary gifts. He seemed also mightily
pleased with himself, and to the visible disgust of
his daughters even went so far as to call Mrs.
Loftus, “Arabella,” chuckle her under the chin,
and invite her to sit down with the family at dinner.
It was evident that no time was to be lost in inform-
ing their father of the character of the person who
had, under false colours, obtained admittance to
his household. Another circumstance also roused
their ire. Mrs. Loftus was engaged to do the
cooking, and yet she was installed as their equal,
while another servant was attending to the kitchen.
There were various premonitions of the coming
storm, which it was patent would burst imme-
diately after dinner was over.
* «: #
The meal was at length served, and when
the sucking pig, roast turkey and sundries
were disposed of, the old man asked them to fill
their glasses. It was a custom on these occasions
for the host to formally drink the health of each
of his children, and this gathering was to be no
exception. The usual formula was, however,
somewhat varied. The old man got on his feet
and grinningly invited the company to drink to
the good health and long life of their stepmother,
at the same time clapping his palsied paw on
Arabella’s shoulder. The old rascal had married
her that morning. At the announcement the
family opened their mouths in wonder and closed
"■hem again in silence, realising an ancient truth
that there are eases in which a marriage is less
tolerable than a liaison.
HENRY SIEBEL.
“ It has transpired that the recent large donations
given for philanthropic purposes in London, and which
were at first described as “ Anonymous,” have emanated
respectively from a titled brewer and a merchant.”—
Cablegram.
Anonymous, Anonymous,
How oft thy cloak we need,
Thou ’art truly to each one of us
A very friend indeed.
The poor invoke thy friendly aid,
Their alms to publish loth ;
The rich (all in the way of trade)
Can sometimes—well—do both.
Anonymous, Anonymous,
’Tis time to change thy name,
Now verily synonymous
With “ advertising fame.”


y
m
aji
ONI
‘Wmoßrnssiy
IND.g
a^rligJifc&fcS
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
A,SAUNDERS,
Watch Manufacturer & Jeweller,
813 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
(Nearly opposite Railway Station).
For Watches and Jewellery , send for my Price List
(Illustrated). Post Free.
__ The Unrivalled Keyless Watch. qrt _
Guaranteed. Post Free.
Gent.’s English Levers (full cap) from £3 10s.
Ladies’ Beautiful Silver Watches from £1 10s.
Gold Watches and Jewellery of every description.
Country Residents and Visitors to Sydney call or send
to A. SAUNDERS, 813 George Street (nearly opposite
Railway Station), SYDNEY.
Truth Stranger than Fiction,
No tiction ever transcended the. workings of
nature. Aye, the imagination of the m6st prolific
and sensational novelist has been eclipsed by
strange incidents or coincidents in real life. The
close connection between mind and body has often
been curiously exhibited by the effects of strong
passions. Anger has produced apoplexy ; a
paroxysm of fear has in one night bleached black
hair to the colour of the driven snow ; grief breaks
the heart, and learning has sent many a man mad.
Some of our readers may repudiate these asser-
tions as pure fiction, for such is the fate of all
narratives that do not record merely the everyday
incidents of vulgar life. Yet another example that
truth isstranger than fiction has just beenfurnished
by Miss Nelly Bly, who, according to the latest
cables, circled the world in 72 days, and has broken
Jules Verne’s fictitious record as expanded in his
sensational novel, “ Around the World in Eighty
Days.” And would anybody care to enquire into
the silent suffering endured by many a poor de-
voted wife or husband smitten with disease, it
would be shown that no tiction ever outstripped
the doings of nature. Mes. C. Bedggood,
Geelong, under date, January 30, makes the fol-
lowing statement “ For some years I have been
suffering from advanced kidney disease and
chronic congestion of the liver. I had,dull pains
in the back and burning stitching pains in the
region of the liver. There was a strange sore-
ness of the bowels, a frequent desire to urinate,
and I had often violent cramps in the legs, I was
troubled with distressing nervousness, swelling
of the ankles, and an examination of the urine
showed traces of albumen, pointing to inci-
pient Bright’s disease of the kidneys. I had
such a short breath and choking sensation that I
frequently imagined I would suffocate. My
nights were sleepless, and my constitution was re-
duced to a pitiable plight. Such was my condi-
tion when I heard of Warner’s Safe Cure. Soon
after taking same, to my amazement I experienced
a most wonderful improvement. The sediment in
my water cleared, and with the use of the third
bottle of Warner’s Safe Cure, the pains had
gradually ceased. In all I took some sixteen
bottles of Warner’s Safe Cure, and they have
cleared the secretions of the kidneys, and restored
me to health and strength.” Mr. John R. Wil-
liams, Wills Street, Ballarat, Victoria, manager
Earl ’of Beaconsfield Mine, writes, under date,
January 29th, 1890 “ For some five years I
have been a sufferer from constant dizziness in the
head, so that I was frequently in danger of fall-
ing, I passed sleepless nights, suffered from short-
ness of breath, and my doctor said my heart
was affected. The idea that there might be organic
disease of the heart weighed me down., as if there
w ,as a millstone suspended from my neck. I found
my gloomy forebodings happily misplaced when
giving myself treatment with , Warner’s Safe
Nervine. The second bottle gave me relief, and I
could again resume my duties comfortably. The
giddiness disappeared, and the medicine enabled
me to sleep well and sound. I have taken five
bottles of Warner’s Safe Nervine, also some of
Warner’s Safe Pills, since which the giddiness is
permanently removed, and every symptom of
disease has vanished.”
Write for plans £10 Building sites, Perth*
Western Australia. Intercolonial Investment
Company, Limited, 96 Bathurst street/Sydney.
BUGGIES, BUCKBOARLS,
—AND—
VICTORIAS,
At MANUFACTURERS’ PRICES.
Send for Catalogues and Prices to
THE E. B. WHEELER CO.,
265 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
Personal Items.
“ Uncle ” Abigail, M.L.A., goes to Eng-
land this month to float a N.S.W. coal-property.
Carlyle onee courteously described Dis-
raeli as “a wretched old Jew, not worth his weight
in cold bacon.”
Oharpberlain, says a London paper, has at
last shown that he is a perfect gentleman. He
has the g^ut.
The mistress of the bank-defaulter Alpress,
a very pretty girl, suicided soon after his dis-
appearance.
Parkes will shortly be made a baronet—
unless he busts meanwhile after the manner of
many other frogs.
Mr. Justice Hood was sworn in at Mel-
bourne ; befor J' the Govemor-in-Oouncil without
any display of millinery.
Sir Charles Russell’s brief in the French-
Brewster case, notoriously dirty on both sides,
was marked 1000 guineas.
Passing northwards Major-General Ed wards
was much annoyed that no reporter interviewed
him during his stay at Townsville.
“ The Vagabond” says that a certain big
Sydney; softgoods firm do a large retail trade in
quartern loaves and penny buns in the islands of
the Pacific.
Mr. H. A. Unwin, formerly private
secretary to Governor Loftus, acts as private
secretary to Premier Parkes during the Melbourne
conference.
“Ginger ” Clarke does not intend returning
to New South Wales, having secured a London
bank-managership. London suits his well-known
little peculiarities.
The, Queen has made the Sultan of Zanzi-
bar a Knight of St. Michael and St. George. This
shows what the Queen thinks of Burdett Smith
and John Davies.
Mrs. Kell, relict of a well-known “ old ”
Sydney shipwright, has just died in Melbourne
aged 90. She arrived at Port Jackson in the
same year as Ralph Dai’ling.
Bonython, editor of the S.A. Advertiser,
is going to stand for Parliament next April. His
admirers say that he will become Premier of South
Australia before another five years.
SirEdwd, Wolstenholme Ward, K.C.M.G.,
late of the Sydney and Melbourne Mints, is dead.
In his palmy days he could play cricket, ride
horses and take all hands down at billiards.
“ The Vagabond ” says that Duncan
Gillies “is getting toned down in appearance
with increasing years, and with his smoothly-
shaven face looks like a continental diplomat of
the old school.”
George Hinde, an old Ballarat digger of
the Lalor era, who returned to England with a
hundredweight of gold, got through it, and worked
his passage back before the mast, hanged himself
at his old diggings the other day.
Walter Scott Targett, aforetime member
for Hartley, N.S.W., now runs a paper in Port
Pirie, S.A. He is an alderman in the town and
threatens to oppose the talented Ebenezer Ward
at the next parliamentary election.
Stuart Cumberland, the thought-reader,
says Australians prefer a bad play to a good
lecture. They prefer a bad play to Stuart
Cumberland. Maybe Stuart could read thoughts
very well, but he couldn’t express any.
0. ..Proud, formerly a pressman on the
S. At Register, but of late years a leading
broker in Adelaide, has retired wtth a fortune
made, in silver stocks. Most pressmen retire with
an empty gin-bottle as their only asset.
Talmage has, with characteristic love of
notoriety, cabled to New York that he has
preached from Mars Hill on the very spot from
whence Paul orated. Talmage and that advertis-
ing Sydney parson will tee round with a circus
shortly.
Chief Justice Darley has built himself a
mansion at Katoomba. His predecessor (Sir
James Martin) spqpt a small fortune in laying out
a place at Numantia, but never got beyond the
foundations. The mortgagee, Sir Daniel Cooper,
has foundations and ground now.
Michael Mullins M‘Girr, of the Sydney
Eeebman’s Journal, is dead. “Mickey,” as he
was affectionately called in the West, was a school-
master at Bathurst under the old denominational
system, and has “birched” the three R’s into
many a youngster who has since made his mark in
the land.
The S. M. Herald publishes a cablegram
that Edward Dwyer Gray is coming to Australia.
Now Dwyer Gray has for a year or two been as
dead as a door-nail. He was an Irish Radical
and the Herald knows nothing about Irish Radi-
cals, but it can always tell you the name of the
reputed father of every miserable little lord who
arrives here as a globe-trotter.
In a biography of the lately-deceased poet
Mr. Charles Maokay, it is related that Nana Sahib
found Mackay’s song “ Cheer, Boys Cheer ” —or,
rather, the melody to which it was set, of great
use in encouraging his troops when in action.
Stranger still, he ordered the band to strise up’
this air while his unhappy victims were being
slaughtered at the well at Cawnpore.
The great Maori prophet, Te Whiti, is just
now doing three months in New Plymouth prison,
for contempt of court in neglecting to settle a
judgment for £9O. The prophet is perfectly able
to pay the money, bud the colossal absurdity of
the pakeha process of exacting jitu strikes him on
the funny bone and he prefers to eat and drink at
the pakeha’s expense to parting with the shekels.
A London writer attacks the lately-
deceased poet, Browning, because, when abroad.
he did not eat properly:—“ The aesthetic sensibi-
lities of the most romantically-inclined members
of our party received a staggering shook when the
soaring writer took fowl-bones in his fingers, and,
with palpable relish, as his would-be admirers
sadly remarked, ‘ gnawed at them like an old
wolf.’”
The Age, in a Federal Conference bio-
graphy of Premier Parkes, cruelly gives two
specimens of his poetry
Our home is in the wild bush far,
Of peaceful spots the boonest,
Where the kangaroo and emu are
Which flee the white man soonest.
And—
I would not give my ragged Jane
For all the peacook ladies going ;
She knows the way to banish pain—
What she don’t know is not worth knowing.
There is a funny story told of a man who
was recommended to run down to Chislehurst
and See the ex-Ernperor Napoleon 111. lying-in-
State. The individual in question had never seen
any Emperors, but he had heard a good deal about
’em, also about their magnificent State. So ho
went down to Chislehurst, and awaited his turn,
with several thousand other people, for vyalking
past the ex-Emperor. And when he got right up
to the spectacle he took a long, disgusted observa-
tion, and said, in the voice of one who has been
imposed upon, “ Why, he’s dead /”
Of the sensational trial and conviction of
Laurie, for murder, London Figaro twaddled
thus—“ Some of the jury felt that if by any chance
it should hereafter be found that he was innocent
reparation would be impossible.” How strange !
The rest of the jury probably imagined that the
victim of such an error can sue the Government
for damages.
A general bakers’ strike is imminent in
Sydney unless the masters consent to adhere to
the eight hours’ system. The world moves, stirred
by the yeast of democracy. Even “ Doughey,” the
slave, is rising in revolt against the state of things
that once compelled him to toil sixteen hours daily,
in a dungeon. The butchers of Australia follow
in an agitation for short hours.
We find that we were in error in stating
that, at the half-yearly meeting of the Newcastle
Wallsend Cosfl Company, a Mr. Close “ seconded
the proposal to make Mrs. Neilson’s allowance
subject to a quinquennial vote. ” The amendment
was moved by. W. M. M. Arnold, and seconded by
J. H. Storey. We can quite understand Mr.
Close’s indignation at being unjustly burdened with
an accusation of this character.
In his latest “ Dagonet ” ballad—repub-
lished in last week’s Bulletin—the alleged radical,
G. R. Sims, sings
And still, with a face made fairer
' By motherhood’s softening hand,
She’s as true to her wifely sorrow
As the Lady who rules the land.
The same sentiment might be better expressed
after this style :
And still, though she’s poor, and her beauty
Must expose her to many a snare,
She’s as true and as decent a widow
As another who’s not so fair.
The fact is that G.R.S. was nobbled by the civic
Tories when his father got the disgusting billet of
Lord Mayor’s Remembrancer.
» Australia has obtained a reputa-
tion rather worse than doubtful in connection
with the treatment of its niggers. Within the
last two years, half-a-dozen men have been tried
on separate charges, at the Supreme Court, with
killing and murdering their wretched native
servants, but it has been demonstrated on each
v occasion that killing a nigger is no murder in the
' free land of the Swan, and either the case has
been so badly got up by the Crown (in the person
of Attorney-General Warton), as to ignominiously
fall through before it was half completed, or a
sympathising jury has acquitted the prisoners.
Fortunately for the poor blacks, they will not be
left to the tender mercies of the local Government
under the coming Constitution, but will be looked
after by an independent board. In the present
state of Swan River morality something of the
kind is urgently called for.
POLITICAL PIONTS
Sir John Robertson is understood to say
that the Federal capital will be at Watson’s Bay.
King Malietoa has issued a proclamation
ordering all Samoans to pay their debts or leave
the country. At this rate the usurers will soon
own the islands.
When the N.S.W. Orangemen asked for
the repeal of the Party Processions Act they were
aware that Colonel Saunderson was corning alone
from Ulster to wave the bloody shirt.
Henry George will land in Australia early
next month. He will be cordially received and
attentively listened to by men of all shades of
political opinion simply because he is a great man.
The Czar declines to recognise a Republic
of Brazil while the ex-Emperor still lives. On
the other hand, the Republic refuses to recognise
any man who wears a bomb-proof shirt and lives
down a well.
The rumour that the Prince of Wales in-
tends visiting Australia has been revived. His
Highness had better hurry up and get into port
before the United States of Australia put a large
fat poll-tax on princes.
The U.S. grog-tax revenue went up
another five million dollars last year. Which is
glad tidings for the temperance evangelists who
A MAN OF ONE IDEA.
NEW CALEDONIAN ESCAPEE: “AH! MAGNIFIQUE, VAT A CLIVAIRE
INVENCIONG; DE vOOD BLOCKS FOR PAVE LES STREETS-
WHAT SPLENDEED BARRICADES ZEY VOULD MAKE FOR DES
REvOLUCIONGS!”
come over from the Far West to tell us how they
have been persuading their native land to swear
off.
There is a row in the camp of the Adelaide
Land-Nationalists. They are broken up into two
parties- the “Single-tax League ” and the “Taxa-
tion Reform League,” and from appearances they
will run against each other at the coming S.A.
elections.
Cockburn and Playford, who represent
S.A. at the Federation Conference, are hardly on
speaking terms. They quarrelled during the last
session of the S.A. Parliament, and Playford
openly stated that the “ Premier’s word was not
to be relied upon.”
It is said that Bruce Smith, the N.S.W.
Minister of Works, does not like Parkes’ Federa-
tion proposals, and will oppose his leader’s scheme
tooth and nail should he see any chance of its
being realised. At present he remains quiescent,
believing that the thing will fizzle out.
Tom Courtney, whose “Notes in Parlia-
ment” did so much to popularise the Sydney
Daily Telegraph, will try to get into the
N.S.W. Assembly at next election. Courtney is
a red-hot Radical and Protectionist, and should
oust the fossilized Scobic for the Hunter.
Chief Justice Lilley, of Queensland, hag
issued another spirited and fearless Republican
proclamation, every word of which Young Aus-
tralia should learn by heart. By the way, where
is Chief Justice Higinbotham’s Republican pro-
clamation ? We know where Chief Justice
Darley’s is.
At the launching of the Persian, one of the
Federal Squadron’s gunboats, Graham Berry
said that “ Australia was now in a position to
defend herself and he trusted would be able to
assist England should it be necessary.” This is
a total evacuation of the usual Imperial position ;
Imperial Federation is not considered necessary
by Graham Berry for the safety of Australia, but
for that of Britain—and, therefore, from an Aus-
tralian standpoint, it is inadvisable.
Readers of “ Little Dorrit ” will remember
how Pancks destroyed the “Patriarch’s” long-
standing reputation for benevolence by the simple
expedient of cutting off his long hair. Half-a-
dozen snips of the shears converted a nice old man
into a revolting old monster—a thing from which
former admirers turned in horrified amazement.
As Parkes rose up at that banquet last week, in
the fictitious character of a great nation-maker, it
was interesting to speculate as to the probable
effect of suddenly cutting off his hair upon Aus-
tralian history. What would come of the present
Federation movement if somebody ran the lawn-
mower over Parkes ?
Mr. Salomons, Q.C., for a few months
after the formation of the present Government,
acted without salary as the Vice-President of the
N.S.W. Executive Council, and duly
thanks for his gratuitous services. HoW.ever, he
took care to create a new office—secretary to the
Vice-President of the Council —with a salary of
over £3OO a year, and, it is stated, some duties
attached to it. He duly appointed to this office
a very competent protege, who fills the office, dis-
charges the duties, and draws the salary as re-
gularly and steadily as could be desired. The
new office is neither hereditary nor permanent,
but is the gift of the Vice-President.
The Conference banquet, which put Parkes
on the sick-list, was not a soul-stirring function.
With the exception of James Service, whose un-
pleasant tone did a good deal towards making
Parkes feel bad, none of the speakers said any-
thing with a real meaning in it. An atmosphere
of insincerity surrounded the pompous gorge, and
subordinate feeders heard repeated references to
this historical occasion with a growing conviction
that the Australian Nation was receiving a parti-
cularly feeble send-off. In another hour, the oc-
casion would have degenerated into ah ordinary
historical “drunk,” as far as concerned the super-
numeraries invited to lead the applause.


**%£s
A ; ■ ••
Mm/) h' 1 / %/\
/Y°/*
A DEBATEABLE QUESTION.
OLD MIX KASHAROO: “WELL, T WONDER WHETHER IT WOULD BE A GOOD THING TO PUT MY FOOT INTO THAT THING?”


(Ip
The Sentimental alentme
The Chairmanship ot‘ the Federation
Conference anti its possibilities
m
UO{
'r? |
>. 'V F 1
mmmsllm
1 First Civil Servant: "I say. .foe, nr» you know
that to-morrow will be St. Valentine’s Day
| 2nd C. S. : “ Well, is it a Public Holiday f
Ist C. S. ; “No fear I " . .
2nd C. S. ■ “Then, what 1 say is, blow St. Valentine
ť
vrllv/
\V QL\ Ivy
A Valentine to Sir Alfred Stephen.
The Comiv Valentine
ŧ
Hmiita!
ţ
t
ŧ
ţ
ť
y
y
y
Miss Skinner “Oh 1 want to show you srcil *
lovely valentine There ' did you ever see aby
thing like that 1 . . .
Miss Buskins' “ Ob. yes ■ I got one exactly like i
this morning—doubtless from the same gentle-
ntan , . i.
Mrs. Skinner Indeed' Well, as I was about -
mention, this came to the. cook and vastly proud
I ‘ pf it she is. 1 can assure £
jyi O M £ y
*
Ccni) “I say. I'nclfi, 'here * p tsilivcly uotliniji doing in hne
this year and I may; as well spout these tlm.es until t.mei
improve ” J _
A “BULLETIN” VALENTINE.


The
Marvellous
18s. 6d.
OPTIMUS
WATCHES
The Best, Cheapest and Most Accurate Timekeepers
ever produced*
Made especially to our order by one of the leading and
most celebrated manufacturers of Watches in Switzerland
and experience has shown that no watch is better than a
well-made Swiss one.
Gilt movements, jewelled in six holes, keyless (10 turns
to wind), enamel dials, prystal faces, well made, splendidly
finished, nickel cases that will wear excellently; in fact
real good-looking, handsome little watches, and magnifi-
cent timekeepers.
Twelve months’ guarantee forwarded with every one.
Send P. 0.0. for 19s. 6d. (Is. postage), and have one
forwarded by post. If not in every way satisfactory after
a w'eek money willingly refunded.
Only to be obtained from
FROST «Sc SHIPHAM,
Spectacle Makers, Opticians & Electricians,.
474 & 587 George Street, Sydney.
Foreign & colonial exchange bank
OF AUSTRALASIA, Limited.
Sydney—B6 King Street.
Melbourne— 369 Collins Street.
London Bankers—Australian Joint Stoek Bank.
No. 2 King William Street, Ldndon, E.C.
Authorised Capital, £500,000.
T. S. RICHARDSON, Esq., Managing Direetor.
This Bank undertakes the Exchange of Money,
both International and Intercolonial, includ-
ing the Coinage of all EoreiGjN Nations, in
addition to all usual and customary banking busi-
ness.
Deposits Received-.
3 years
12 months
6 months
3 months
Communications to be
Managing Director.”
... 8| per cent.
... 8; percent.
... 7., per cent.
... 6, per cent,
addressed to “The
w. H. PALING & COMPANY, LIMITED,
356 George Street, SYDNEY,
lIAYE Just Opened a Magnificent Lot of 3NTe-w Pianos from the celebrated Makers, Steinway, Erard, Uebel, Fenrich, Lipp, Ronisoh, Bluthnor, Collat'd, and others
Also of the wonderful "Victor Pianos at and Estey Organs. No such Variety or Value elsewhere for Cash or Terms.
Society
Anglo-Saxon as she is spoken in Sydney.
In a tram-car. New-chum ; “ No, but look h’yah,
old chappie, these colonials don-tu-know, mos’
’xstrawdn’ry, don-tu-know. Awf’ly peculiah to
he-yah them. Can’t pos’b’ly un’stan’ them. ”
First Young Sydney Gentleman (from Wool-
loomoolo): “ ’Elio, Bill. ”
Second Ditto (from Surry Hills): “Wot yer !”
First Ditto : “ Wareyer goyin’ ?”
Second Ditto : “ Finer goyin’ deown teown.”
First Ditto : “ Wot for ?”
Second Ditto; “I wanner gitter peare o’
treovvsers.”
First Ditto; “’Gooff?”
Second Ditto: “Breown; they’ll on’y corst
abeout a peownd.”
New-Chum : “Do listen, old f’ler. Awf’ly dem
peculiah.”
A Lovely Female; “Guard! please stop the
treeam, I wanner git eout. ” [Gits eout.]
First Y.S.G. : “Bill, ’oo’s them fellers in thf
nex’ cumportment ?”
Second Ditto : “ ’Eow sh’d I know. Noo-chums
I expect—fellers wot carn’t tork plain English
It’s sickernin’; I’mer goyner git deown.”
First Ditto : “ Soermi. ’Ever glarsser beer ?”
Second Ditto: “Yuss!” [Drinks.] —“’Ere’'
luck to the Angler-Saxin langwidge.”
[And who shall say it doesn’t require it ?}
* # #
There is nothing poetical about the sick-
ness of Premier Pafkes, which, ere this appears,
will, we trust, be a thing of the past. However,
we are not surprised that Premier Parkes should
be ill. In the first place, no old gentleman who
doesn’t cut his hair can expect to feel well in Mel-
bourne during the hot weather. Secondly, no old
gentleman who has been told “by the late Lord
Beaconsfield’s family physician ” that his heart is
affected should allow his stomach to get out of
order all along of big dinners and fizz.
* * *
One of the prime jokes of the Australian
smarties at the late Indo-Colonial Exhibition in
London was to approach Burdett Jones and say
with a perfectly solemn face : “Oh, Mr. Jones, I
met your brother from Melbourne yesterday.”
Then—the haughty Jones meanwhile looking too
astounded for words—the speaker continued :
“The Doctor, I mean—Dr. L. L. Jones, from
Melbourne, he”—but here the volcano burst.
“My brother! that person my brother! I wish
you to understand, sir, once and for all, that no
tie of relationship or even of friendship exists
between us.” And then the joker would seek out
the other Jones with, “Say, Doc., old fell’r, I
met your brother yesterday, the”— “Met my
brother! I’m blessed if you did.” “Oh, yes, I
did —the stout curly-haired one from Sydney—
Burdett Jones, you know.” And then that man
with the be-diamonded shirt front would breathe
fire and slaughter.
* * *
The loyal multitude in Victoria are now
content to be led in matters of etiquette by the
Governor’s coachman. When Hopetoun alights
from his kerridge, coachee whips off his (coachee’s)
pith helmet and stands “uncovered”; the loyal
multitude, taking the cue from the principal
flunkey, do likewise. So far, notwithstanding the
intense heat, no cases of sunstroke are reported,
which regretable circumstance is entirely attri-
butable to the strength and thickness of the loyal
skull.
* * *
Dear Bulletin, —I see that somebody has
induced a Governor and his wife to have their in-
fant daughter christened “ Myee,” which word is
alleged to mean “native-born.” Whoever sug-
gested the name in question committed con-
sciously or unconsciously a cruel and grotesque
deception. For the benefit of prospective and
imitative mothers let me tell you that in the lingo of
the Maearthur River (N.T.) blacks “ Myee ” does
not mean native-born, but has quite a different
signification. In fact, it means something (written
hereunder) which, seeing that there is a virtuous
and amiable lady in the case, you will hesi-
tate to put into print.—Yours, Stickles, N.Q.
* * *
The young lady doctors are “ shrimping
up,” with six of them studying at the Melbourne
hospital, elbowing out 150 men students from the
surgical operation beds. ' This calls to mind the
struggle of Elizabeth Blackwell, in America, she
being the first lady doctor. It is no use trying to
squeeze away the Victorian aspirants, for they
perceive from £lOOO to £5OOO a year sticking out,
something far better than the precarious work at
telegraphing or telephoning, not to speak of bar-
maiding, waitressing, nursing, and all the other
slaveries. One or two, State school girls have
managed to get into the medical student ranks,
but these are as yet far too difficult of access, ex-
cept for the daughters of the wealthy. A rich
young Melbourne lady has been assisting lady
medical pupils materially, but she makes a condi-
tion that they must not come out of the State
schools, inasmuch as the State school pupils have
free education, whereas private school pupils have
had to pay. Surely this is altogether a false view,
bearing in mind that the State school girls are
comparatively poor to start with. To the honour
of one privately-educated young lady, it has to
be said that she rejected the offer of assistance,
on learning that her State school friends were
barred.
* • •
As already stated, old Hardcash, the
canny Victorian millionaire, got married again the
other day, and thereby hangs a tale. Of recent
years 11. (probably thinking that easy travelling
is conducive to longevity) has always taken a first-
class return ticket to Melbourne. On the eve of
his joyous nuptials, however, the venerable Romeo
restricted himself to a first-class single. It was
the last extravagance of his widowhood, was that
soft,.springy journey to Smellbourne, where Juliet
awaited her ardent swain. For, when he had
annexed his blooming bride, he carried her off to
Spencer-street station and gave Mrs. Hardcash a
first lesson in social economy by buying two
“ second-class singles,” and the course of true-love
had to run smooth on a shockingly hard seat.
Old H. is no believer in honeymoon nonsense. But
he is a man of sterling worth (more than a million
sterling worth, according to all accounts) and has
a Supreme Court reputation for trying to euchre
the revenue. We will now conclude with best
respects for his bloated capital and hearty wishes
for the interest, which it would give us sincere
WHAT HE WANTED.
THE MINISTER: “AND PRAY, SIR, WHAT MAY BE YOUR BUSINESS?”
MR. MAC TOOLE: “WELL, SIR, YOU SEE IT’S THIS WAY. I’VE GOT A
PARTNER THAT DRINKS HEAVY AND WHEN HE GETS INTO
THE LOGS I OFTEN HAVE HARD WORK TO FIND A J.P. TO BAIL
HIM OUT. I WANT YOU TO MAKE ME A J.P., IF YOU PLEASE.”
pleasure to draw every three months. One of these
days The Bulletin will write an essay on the old
man’s green coat, a garment that is often talked
about in the Greengeese district.
* * *
Boy-reporters are creeping into the Mel-
bourne newspaper offices. An evening journal
sent a fifteen-year-old to ask a rather important
question of the manager of the Tramway Com-
pany, the other day, and the youngster returned
with the message : “ The manager says as he can’t
speak to a boy like me.” This “boy-labour”
question has been taken up by the Victorian Re-
porters’ Association, the majority of which are in
favour of an 18 years’ age limit and two years’ ex-
perience before membership. Notwithstanding,
a boy of 15, on another evening paper, has been
elected member (at a committee meeting which
was carefully loaded with black balls) owing to
one committeeman acting contrary to his professed
opinions. The V.R.A. was successfully launched,
but are now nearing rough waters. Tipping, of
Hansard, is, however, a thoroughly competent
skipper.
* * *
Arecenfcly-arrived Mormon elderattempted
suicide at Sydney last week. When he came over
he thought he was bringing on a new notion, but
to his dismay found it patented all over the
country.
# # #
A prominent Sydney secularist, a widower,
who sighed for connubial bliss and loved a Salva-
tion Army lass, moved by the spirit of love,
recently recanted and “found, salvation.” The
smitten one prostrated himself on the occasion in
the dust of Sydney Domain. Man’s love knows
no religion.
* # #
Miss Hamilton, daughter of the Tasmanian
Governor, is “engaged” to Theyre Weigall, a
Melbourne barrister, whose brother, an eminent
sculptor, married into the alleged nobility many
years ago. Mr. Weigall’s father was in the good
old days C.P.S. at Kyneton, Yic., while “Orion”
Horne was warden at the adjacent goldfield,
Trentham.
* # *
A woman was married for the fifth time
in Carlton (Melb.), a fortnight back. At least it
was her fifth venture up to the time of going to
press.
* * *
A Chicago paper says “the Australian
Legislature ” has passed a law taxing all married
couples living with their mothers-in-law. This
sounds queer at a time when Melbourne journalists
are clamouring to have Duncan Gillies married
with a view to securing legislation imposing heavy
penalties on mothers-in-law living with their
married daughters.
# * #
A shipment of iron knuckle-dusters of a
most villainous pattern, booked to a Melbourne
firm, has been suppressed by the local Commis-
sioner of Customs, on the ground that the
“ dusters’ were a German infringement of an
English patent. The jewellery was probably
ordered in response to the pressing demand from
suburban councillors. A fine specimen of British
morality, this. The knuckle-dusters were confis-
cated not because the use of such things is in itself
brutal and murderous, but because they trenched
upon “an English patent.” Patent knuckle-
dusters ! What next ?
* * *
One woman picked another’s pocket of
£4 10s. in a Melbourne church, Sunday before
last. The clergy don’t get half a show nowadays
—they are too slow.
* * *
Last week a devout flock in South Mel-
bourne took steps to inform their pastor that the
ends of his sermons were not near enough to the
beginnings, and he threatened to resign. They
raised his screw, and he is resigned.
* * *
In a Northern town is a storekeeper who
is married to his son’s wife’s mother ! The
son’s mother-in-law is also his step-mother,
and his wife is his father’s step-daughter and
daughter-in-law, and his father is both father and
stepfather. The prospective complications are
awful.
• * *
Julian Thomas (the “ Vag.”) says he met
the daughter of a well-known Sydney divine
earning her living as a pianiste in a North
Queensland dancing-room.
• * *
Alpress, the Melbourne bank-clerk who
got clear away with £BOOO, had, it appears, £lOOO
m his possession when arrested by the London
police. He took vessel to China (when he got
there the local detectives, who knew he was
aboard, at once arrested a fellow passenger of his
and let the real Alpress slip through their fingers)
thence to America, Germany and Monte Carlo—
and came to grief after he had been a week in
London, where he was sufficient of an ass to make
a splash under the alias of “Lord Armytage.”
Honest or dishonest, bank-clerks are nearly all
alike in their miserable desire to “ put on jam
The bank-clerk, whom we meet in Melbourne,
Puts on an air of being “ well-born ; ”
But when with cash he bolts abroad,
He swears right out that he’s a lord.
And spends the proceeds of the robbery
In playing up his game—darn’d snobbery,
* * *
A correspondent suggests that instead of
criminals being sentenced to long terms of im-
prisonment, in future they should be made to take
steerage passages by a certain line of intercolonial
coasting steamers. One passage, it is calculated,
would suffice to deter the most callous ruffian.
# # *
Melbourne Age displays sad ignorance in
the fixing up of its telegrams from “Home.”
Take, for instance, the latest—“lt is rumoured
that His Royal Highness the Duke of Cambridge
is about to relinquish the position of Field Marshal
of the British Army, and that his successor will
be His Royal Highness the Duke of Connaught.”
In the whole history of epaulettes and cocked-hats
there never was an instance of any Anglo-Saxon
chalk warrior “ relinquishing the position of Field
Marshal,” which means nothing in itself, and is
generally arrived at by old putty-brained curiosities
of 90, after a long period of retirement from the
active-service list. Doesn’t the Age know that
after a colonel has “relinquished” his regiment
he settles down into a peaceful state of promotion,
and presently gets gazetted “ General ?” Old
Gampridge may be about to leave off pretending
that he is, or ever was “ Field Marshal Command-
ing-in-Chief” but he will remain F.M. until he
dies of his accumulated fat. And the Age con-
firms its stupidity with a cross-heading—“ Duke
of Connaught to be appointed Field Marshal.”
There is no milk in that cocoanut as it stands.
# # #
The Johannesburg police are now provided
with ladders, with which they scramble in at
upper windows and disturb peaceful gambling
parties,
* * *
A Western squatter got rather badly “left’
by one of his hands not long since. He had sent
the man in to dummy a homestead lease on his
run, the deposit on lodging the application being
some forty odd pounds. To show his bona-hdes
the squatter placed a very high valuation on the
improvements on the piece of country selected.
Judge his horror and astonishment at the base
ingratitude of his dummy, when the latter coolly
informed the Land Board that he objected to the
valuations and would, with their permission, with-
draw the application. Withdrawal of application
recommended and subsequent refund of deposit to
dummy, with ultimate migration of the latter to
fresh fields and pastures new. That squatter now
says that “homestead leasing is a distinct failure.”
A wag wired up from Geelong last week
that business was at a standstill in consequence of
the excessive heat. For years past business has
been that way in poor old Geelong, hot weather or
no. Touch the harp gently to the tune of “ Shan-
van- Vocht ”
According to Hayter’s statistics there are
only twenty-three daughters of the pavement in
Melbourne. Figures will prove anything.
* * *
There is a desperate attempt by the
entrepreneurs of shaky Melbourne Permanent
Evanescent Building Societies to argue that the
Premier fiasco, little Mirams’ job, is isolated.
But it won’t do, the whole gang of them will
At Geelong they slumber sound
When the wind blows warm,
And asleep they still are found
Through the wintry storm :
Come the sunshine or the rain,
In this life of grief and pain,
They will never wake again
At Geelong-long-long.
O, to rouse ’em one may try
When the cool breeze blows,
While the roses bloom and die—
But they calmly doze;
Coldest water from the pump
Wouldn’t make those sleepers jump,
’Till they heard the final Trump
At Geelong-long-long.
Then they’ll hurry in a crowd
To the Golden Gate,
Pr aying lengthy prayers aloud
While they meekly wait;
With a smirk upon each face
They will put their little case—
“We have lived and died in grace
At Geelong-long-long.”
And St. Peter will reply,
With a wrathful frown—
“l have always had my eye
On your drowsy town,
When you lay asleep it seems
You were working pious schemes,
Satan nabbed you in your dreams.
Get along-long'long! ”


The SYDNEY DEPOSIT BANK,
90 —KING STREET —9O
Established 1885.
Agencies in London and throughout Australia.
Overdrafts granted against Deposit of Deeds,
and all the usual banking business transacted.
The following are the Rates of Interest allowed
for Fixed Deposits :
12 Months ... ...
(! Months 7h per cent.
3 Months 5| per cent.
5 per cent, allowed on daily balance of current account.
For the past Four (4) Years a Bonus of One per
Cent, has been paid in addition to the above rates.
This is the first and only Bank in the Colonies
which divides its profits with its depositors.
Communications from the country will be
promptly attended to.
3 Years
T. S. RICHARDSON,
General Manager.
ţ
CURES
consumption
SCROFULA
BRONCHITIS
coiichs
COLDS
Wasting Diseases
Wonderful Fi©sh Producer.
Many Lave gained one pound
per day by its use.
Scott’s Emulsion is not a secret
remedy. It contains the stimulat-
ing properties of the Hypophos-
phites and pure Norwegian Cod
Liver Oil, the potency of both
being largely increased. It is used
by Physicians all over the world.
'palatable as bvibl.bc.
Sold by all Chemists.
SCOTT & BOWNE, New York.
j ROBERTSON’S \\ll 1 SKY.
£2OO FXIIZSS.
GIVEN AAV AY IN THE COLONIES
as follows:
16 of £5 each, 35 £3, and 70 £l,
Pimphlets from the Agents, ALLT & CO-, Limited, CHARLOTTE PLACE. SYDNEY
require overhauling, because they have been so
cunningly withdrawn from that Parliamentary
control which is so salutarily exercised over the
banks. Much enwreathed with the are
the Building Societies, and even Mirams is a
clergyman’s son. Tremendous anti-grog agitators
and furious opposers of opening the Public Library
on Sundays are the Permanent Building Society
promoters; they are besides the high-priests of
the Sunday-schools.
# * - *
In the present edition of the Encyclo-
paedia Britannica occurs the stupendous state-
ment that “Beer of a fine quality is made in
Tasmania. Then it is frozen and cut into blocks
the size of a cubic foot, and in this state it is ex-
ported to England.” The article is anonymous,
but most likely the contributor’s name was George
Washington.
# * *
The Presbyterians of Melbourne are having
their day out. The new Governor being of their
faith, every Presbyterian Church within a radius
of ten miles of the city has had a suite of pews
reserved, and emblazoned with the royal arms
and other symbols of that slavery in which the
free like to indulge so freely.
* # #
Western Australia has sent “home” a couple
of delegates, in addition to its late Governor,
Broome, in order to instruct crazy old faddists
like Sir George Campbell as to the true character
of her demand for self-government. The mem-
bers of the Legislature decided to send home the
nominal “Leader of the Opposition,” or the
Leader of the nominal Opposition, and Sir Thomas
Cockburn Campbell, a real live baronet, and
Chairman of Committees. The latter is a harm-
less, inoffensive individual, with a penchant for
the society of callow youths (who affection dely
call him “Bart.” or “Tummy”), and w.iose
favourite author is Balzac. The former is a little
attorney, fat of form, smug of face, and Re void of
aristocratic polish, and perhaps for this reason the
baronet, whose manners are most elaborate,
doncherknow, has been sent as a corrective. The
attorney, anxious to shine with a reflected lustre,
has gone home in “ Bully Broome’s ” train, but
the baronet, who thinks himself as good as any
manufactured knight, not to say much better, has
proceeded to England in solitary grandeur.
# * *
In one of the papers a gentleman advertises
for a wife “who must either have money, or be
able to earn some.” The advt. is regarded as a
joke by idiots who forget that (without reckoning
“working classes”) small shopkeepers and actors
generally expect their wives to be able to earn
money. Very likely this candid individual would
like to be happy with a lajjy doctor.
* * *
Truth reports the intended resignation of
yet another Australian Governor, General Norman,
of Queensland. Norman denies it. They all deny
it. There is an old proverb about smoke and fire.
# * *
The E. News states that several “leading”
(or “distinguished” or “eminent”—we forget
which) Sydney citizens met at the Town Hall to
welcome Lord Portchester. Now, as the name of
the accomplished and graceful Mr. Alfred Bennett
of course appears among the list of the “leading”
(or distinguished or eminent) citizens, it is as well
that he should know that there is no lord on earth
named Portchester, and that any person who
writes his name down as “Portchester,” and
alleges that he is a lord, is a sham and a delusion,
not to say a snare. P.S. —We now see that Alfred
wrote “ prominent ” —which in his case about fills
the bill.
* * *
The Adelaide people are not at all cut up
about the threatened departure of Lady Kintore,
and say that since the Kintores set foot in South
Australia social matters have been terribly dull —
for reasons not utterly unconnected with the tight
grip kept on the vice-regal bawbees.
* * *
Three gentlemen of high English stand-
ing, one well up in the peerage, are staying at a
leading Australian hotel until the West-end
scandals blow over in London.
* * *
Dear Bulletin, —I cannot understand the
globe-trotting Meenister M‘Gregor’s boast about
spending only 12s. 6d. in all his travels through
New Zealand and Australia. A true M‘Gregor
would scorn to mention such a paltry sum spent
or acquired anywhere. There are many persons
now-a-days sporting our name who have no right
to bear it —not having come honestly by it through
true descent —and I fear the parson is one of them.
In the good old times, when a M‘Gregor went on
his travels, instead of spending 12s. 6d. and boast-
ing of his economy he usually turned up with a
big draft (cattle principally) to his credit, and
thought nothing about the woes of the rightful
owners. If Dr. M‘Gregor had boasted that he
landed in Australia with 12s. 6d. in his pocket
and left in six months after despoiling twenty
cattle-stations and sheep-runs, I could understand
him “blowing” about it. But 12s. 6d. spent in
travelling—faugh ! The thing is altogether too
paltry, and his mention of it confirms me in my
opinion that he is not, as is yours truly,—A True
M'Gregor.
A Tragedy of the Flood.
The Story of a Miner.
“ On the night of Monday, 13th January, 1890, the
Glastonbury Creek, at Glastonbury hamlet, 13
miles from Gympie, rose in sudden flood, sweeping
away trees, crops, and houses, and, to deepen still
further the melancholy tragedy, sacrificing a
mother and her three children in its furious onset.”
Here is the story of William Coomber, the
widowed husband and the childless father, as told
last week to a representative of the Courier.
Grizzled and browned by years of strenuous
labour, his limbs stiff and battered, his eyes
sunken, his face bearing the signs of a great grief,
and his whole aspect speaking of a fierce struggle
with death, his words come painfully, earnestly,
slowly:—
“My name is William Benjamin Coomber. I
was born at East Maitland, New South Wales, in
the year 1852, but came early to Queensland. My
life has been a hard one. My parents were poor,
and I was left to make my way as best I could.
God knows I have fought hard to do it until—
until—this last blow came. Now I feel as if all
my strength was gone, and
“Well, I am 37 years of age, and all my time
has been spent in knocking about Queensland—
prospecting, farming, station-hand, timber-getting
and so on. For seven years I was a stockman
with Mr. William North, of Fenelon and North-
brook, near Ipswich. It was about 1874 when I
A MARKED DISTINCTION.
TARPOT; “ I SAY, BOSS, ANY HINGLISHMAN ALONGER HINGLAND?”
BOSS: “YES, TARPOT; PLENTY.”
TARPOT: “BAAL ME THINKIT. WHAT FOR HINGLISHMAN NOT COME
ALONGER QUEENSLAND?”
BOSS: “SO THEY DO. MR. SIDE AND MR. GREEN, THE JACKEROOS ON
NEXT STATION—THAT FELLOW ENGLISHMAN.”
TARPOT: “BAAL THAT FELLOW HINGLISHMAN—THAT FELLOW ALTO-
GETHER B-NEW-CHUM.”
left him and came to Gympie. I was mining in
the Louisa, and was one of those that pegged out
the 4 Phoenix. In 1882 I was married before the
registrar in Maryborough to Cecilia Maria Lost.
She was then only 16, but we loved one another,
and a good and faithful wife she was until the
last. ,
“ I went timber-getting at Noosa and fencing
near Gympie, yet I never seemed to make much
headway, though I never spent my earnings in
drink. But times were dull, and the pay was not
large, and as the children came it was more and
more of a struggle to make ends met. We had
three children; a boy of five, William ; a girl of
three, Anna; and a baby girl, little Elizabeth.
The boy was named after me—such a pretty little
fellow he was, fine and upright, with a smile as
bright as the morning. Well ! they are all gone
now.
“We went to Glastonoury ten weeks ago. it
is a small township on the banks of a creek, a few
miles from Gympie. There are a few farmers
round about, and the men employed in the two or
three mines. I had a job of fencing, which I
hoped would last some time, for I had been out of
work and did not know where to turn. However,
it was finished in three weeks, and, not knowing
what else to do, I started prospecting. We had
no money, but Mr. Schollick and others would
not see us starve, and the wife made a little by
washing and baking for the men camped about the
mines.
“ I remember that Monday well. I had been
out all day, and had come across an outcrop on
the side of a gully, which looked very well. I
broke off a piece and brought it home at evening
to show my wife. She met me at the door of the
little humpy we were living in, and I showed he?
the specimen. ‘ That looks nice,’she said. ‘Yes,’
I said, ‘ I think it’s a good thing.’ ‘ Please God,’
says she, ‘we want it badly enough.’
“ I noticed she was looking tired, and asked her
if anything was wrong. She said she had a bad
headache. ‘ Well,’ said I, ‘ I’ll put the kettle on
and make you a cup of tea; that will do you good.’
I put the kettle on and made the tea, and after
that the children were put to bed. I was going
to do something with a fishing-net I was making,
but I felt rather tired with the day’s tramp, so the
wife thought we’d better go to bed.
“‘Just go out, will you, William,’ she says,
‘ and put a sheet of bark over the fire, in case it
rains, as I want to bake to-morrow.’ 1 went but
and put a sheet of bark over the fire, and just then
a flash of lightning came and showed me that the
creek was rising. ‘ Hallo !’ says Ito the wife,
‘the creek’s rising.’ She .came out and looked,
and we had a lot of discussion as to what had
caused it, for it was not raining then where we
were, although there were heavy clouds about,
.‘Well,’ I says, ‘I won’t go to bed yet awhile, in
case there is any danger.’ Not that I dreamt we
were in any real danger, but I knew that we were
in a bad place if the creek should overflow. You
see, the humpy was like in the centre of a triangle
with the ground sloping away from it all round,
On one side of the triangle ran the Glastonbury
Creek, on another a creek running into the Glas-
tonbury, and on the third side was a gully con-
neoting the two. There was high ground behind
us, but we had to go over this gully to reach it.
“Well, I went in for a few minutes, and pre-
sently slipped the bark window aside. The water
seemed quite close, yet still it was not raining, or
only a drop or two occasionally. I looked out of
the door, and the water from the creek in front
was within 15ft. of us. Even then I did not
realise the danger, but I called out to the wife to
dress the children, as we might have to shift. She
woke the children, and dressed them; they did
not make a bit of trouble, but Anna and Willy
chattered about going a walk in the dark. I
stood at the door till she was ready. Soon she
said, ‘l’m ready.’ I stepped out to see where the
water was, and at the third step I walked into it.
The night was then as dark as pitch, and the
clouds hung so low that you would think you
could touch them.
“ I then for the first time saw how serious our
situation was. I rushed in to the humpy, and
caught Anna and Willy up in a blanket, while my
wife wrapped the baby in another blanket and
followed me out. We made at once for the high
ground behind us, but we had only got a couple of
hundred yards when I saw something white in
the gully that we had to cross. A flash of light-
ning came and showed me that we were hemmed
in by the water. We thought what we should do,
and the wife says, ‘ Let us get back to the humpy;
it is on the highest ground.’ By this time the
water was ankle-deep as we walked, and the cur-
rent in the creek was rushing down furiously. It
commenced to rain a little, steadily.
“ When we got back to the humpy I saw that
was not safe, so we went to a big fallen tree close
by, and I put the wife up on a strong limb, about
six feet from the ground, with the two girls in her
arms. Then I got up on the same limb with the
boy in my arms, and the dog came up too and
sat beside us, and we sat there a minute and
listened to the water coming down. The noise was
an awful roar, and every now and again you could
hear the sharp snap of a tree breaking, and then
the crash as it fell into the water. All this time
the lamp had been shining on the table in the
humpy, and it somehow gave us hope and cheered
us a bit.
“ As we sat on the limb we could hear the water
swirling beneath us, and I thought if I could get a
bit of rope I could tie Willie up on a higher
branch. So I got down and waded into the humpy
for the fishing-net. The water was just level with
the table, but the lamp was still burning. I got
the fishing-net and clambered up on the limb
again and looked round at the humpy. The lamp
was out. Then, for the first time, I thought our
case was desperate. In another minute a log was
washed against the humpy, and the next flash of
lightning showed that it was gone.
“We sat a little longer on the limb, I with
Willie in my arms and the wife with the two girls
just above us. Suddenly the end of a big log came
against the arm that I was holding on with, and
the boy and I were knocked off. The water was
up to my neck. I sang out to my wife to stick to
the limb, and, holding the boy in my arms, some-
times wading and sometimes swimming, trying to
avoid the logs that were coming down in all direc-
tions, I attempted to reach a heavy bullock-
waggon that one of the farmers had left near the
humpy. For a bit the current seemed to help me
towards it, but it took a turn before I reached the
waggon and carried me towards the creek.
Sometimes I was out of the water, but
oftener underneath. As I was swept along
I caught hold of a tree or bush, but it
broke in my grasp. Then I was washed to a big
tree. It was too thick to span, but I helped the
boy on my back, with his arms round my neck,
and climbed up above the water. I held on until
a heavy log came down and jammed mo against
the tree, and I slipped down again. The boy fell
off my back, but the log floated away, and I
climbed up the tree with him again, slipping up
and down.
“ Then I heard the wife calling to know where
I was. Her voice sounded quite close, though
you could not see 6ft. The tree on which she was
had been washed down further by the current. 1
called out in reply, and ihe spoke again. The
last words I heard her say were ‘Take care of
Willy.’ Just then the boy said, ‘ Daddy, I feel so
cold.’ At that time he had his arms round my
neck, while I was clinging to the tree, and the
water was bubbling round both of us. God help
me ! I could do nothing more for him. He cuddled
his face round and kissed me. A few minutes
afterwards I heard a queer sort of catching gurgle
in his throat, and he slipped off my shoulders and
fell silently into the water. It was then about
midnight. I tried to catch him as he fell,
but he was carried away into the dark-
ness. I swam over to where I had heard
my wife’s voice. I found the limb on which I
had placed her. She and the children were gone,
and the limb was almost covered by a mass of
rubbish and floating drift. After that I remember
nothing more. They tell me that early in the
morning, when the water subsided, I was found
by a search party from the township wandering
dazed and exhausted half-a-mile or so from where
the humpy stood. My shirt was torn to ribbons,
and my arms were wounded, as you see them.
The body of my wife was found next clay about
four miles down the creek, on the opposite side to
our house ; the bodies of the children were found
also, two on the same day, nearer the humpy,
and one on the Wednesday, still further down the
stream. They lie all together in Glastonbury
cemetery. It is hard to bear. God knows it is
hard to bear. They loved me so.” — Brisbane
C DURXER.
Strange to relate, the anniversary of Black
Thursday came round in Melbourne on Thursday,
February G, last week, with another sweltering
day, in the midst of a long season of heat. Black
Thursday was so christened by the Geelong Ad-
vertiser. Melbourne was enveloped in bushfire
smoke, almost like a London fog, and business had
to be stopped. It is curious that the Melbourne
newspapers, Herald, Argus, and Daily News,
on the day after Black Thursday, contained hardly
any reference to it, such were the ideas then of
journalism. The Argus did not mention it at
all! The Herald had a six-line paragraph, but
the Daily News was more eloquent, writing
about Mount Etna and all that, but still only in a
few lines. In Gippsland the fires were so awful
that the sun was quite eclipsed by the smoke, and
black darkness covered the land at midday. A
man unsaddling a horse could hardly see it. The
Victorian forests were nearly all in flames, and
scraps of fire, with cinder, fell on the decks of
ships 20 miles out at sea. The Gippsland
aboriginals said, “Bright Fellow (the sun) got
blight in him eye.”


When next you haVe try Pern ell’s S’fnw-wurrs Pats**
Pousse Fk>br, &n<l your bread will be as white aa snow.
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
Everybody should use Pemell’s latest best Sxovv- white
Patent Roller Flour. It is the greatest success of the age.
The late R.C. bishops of Brisbane and
Bathurst were brothers, though the former called
himself “O’Quinn,” while the latter was simply
known as “Quinn.” The Bathurst bishop had a
prominent supporter of his church, by name Sulli-
van, and his reverend lordship in a jovial moment
thought to poke fun at Sullivan by asking when he
dropped the big “O” from his name. “Just
about the same toime, me lard, whin you dropped
it,” was the reply.
READ
WHAT THE LEADING
DOCTORS AND CHEMISTS SAY.
“No Medicine introduced to the public has
ever met with the success accorded to Dr. Soule’s
American Hop Bitters. It stands to-day the best
known curative article in the world. It is famous
by reason of its inherent virtues. It does all that
is claimed for it. ”
“Gentlemen,— No medicine has one-half the
sale and gives such universal satisfaction as your
American Hop Bitters. As several remarkable
cures have been made here, there are any number
of advocates for your medicine.”
“ I have constantly used American Hop Bitters
for the past four years in cases of indigestion,
debility, weakness, and in all diseases caused by
poor and bad ventilation, want of air and exercise,
over-work, and loss of appetite, with the most
perfect success.”
The greatest nourishing tonic, appetizer,
strengthener, and curative known to the medical
profession is Dr. Soule’s American Hop Bitters.”
“For all cases of diseases of the liver, stomach,
bowels, or kidneys, I daily recommend the use of
Dr. Soule’s American Hop Bitters.”
“In my practice I am constantly prescribing
your Hop Bitters, and have found every case
relieved by their use. ”
“I can heartily recommend the use of Dr.
Soule’s American Hop Bitters.”
“Gentlemen,— Your medicine will cure when
all other remedies fail. ”
CAUTION.—See that, each bottle has
genuine label, bunch of green hops on
white paper.
“ Looking Backwards ” has now reached
its 210th thousand.
Ifc is noticeable that whenever Premier
Parkes responds to the toast of “ The Ministry,”
he eulogises all the members of his Cabinet except
Dan O’Connor, Sydney Smith and A. J. Gould. _
The Adelaide champion girl-baby lately
thrust a tack up her nose, and its removal neces-
sitated a surgical operation under chloroform.
That’s the worst of notoriety, the woman who has
once known the joys of publicity sticks at nothing
to achieve it.
In Lloyd’s Weekly a son is anxiously
enquiring for his missing papa, “ who went to
Van Dieman’s Land in 1837.” It’s about time
that the lost parent dropped his family a few lines
to say how he has been getting on since William
the Fourth died.
Government Advertisements.
Department of Public Works,
Sydney, February 11, 1890.
Tenders for public works and
supplies.
For Conditions, see Government Gazette.
Nature of Works and Supplies.
Dates to which
Tenders
can be received
at this office.
Bridge, Eucumbene River, road
Coomato Kiandra (fresh tenders)
Manufacture and Supply of Twelve
Water-balance Road Rollers
Supply, &c., of Turret Clock, Post
and Telegraph Office, Kempsey
Ditto ditto, ditto ditto ditto, Ten-
terfield
Ditto ditto, ditto ditto ditto, Bal-
. lina
Ditto ditto, ditto ditto ditto, Red-
fern
Bridge at Blakehurst, Kogarah-
road
Supply, &c., Turret Clock, Court-
house, Inverell
Drainage Works, Orange, Kite-
street to Lord’s-place
Repairs, &c., Court-house, Wollon-
gong
Additions, Coast Hospital, Little
Bay
Approaches to Cook’s River Bridge,
Unwin’s Crossing
Alterations to Windows, &c., Hos-
pital for the Insane, Gladesville,
(fresh tenders)
Bridge, Mann River, road Glen
Lines to Red Range
Bridge, Taroutta Creek, road Um-
bango to Adelong
Bridge, Woodville Creek, road
Granville to Woodville, erection
Engineer’s Residence, Ballina,
Richmond River, construction of
Extension of Wharf, Bullock
Island, Newcastle
Additions, Wingham Wharf,
Manning River
Supply of Punt Gearing, year
Wednesday,
Feb. 19,
at 11 o’clock.
1890
Additional Works, Tramway,
Leichhardt to Five Dock
Construction of Punt for Maclean-
Clarence River
Gatekeepers’ Cottages, Hornsby,
St. Leonards Railway j
Bridge, Lenartz Creek, Rosedale,!
Burwood-road
Slipping and Repairing Punt,;
Dover Point, George’s River j
Bridge over Mandurama Creek,'
road Blayney to Grenfell J
Bridge, to carry Pumping Sain]
over Lane Cove River, North
Shore Water Supply
Additions Post - and . Telegraph
Office, Bathurst
Courthouse, Newcastle, erection
of (Fresh Tenders)
Bridge, Deep Creek, road Condo-
bolin to Wagga Wagga
Stormwater Sewer, P yrmont
Bridge road, Glebe, contract 59
Wednesday,
March 5,
at 11 o’clock.
S. S. .
Bridge over Burrawa River, in
Burrawa (fresh tenders)
Supply of Cast Iron Pipes, Hunter
River Water Supply
Extension of Whart at Five Dock,
Parramatta River
Bridge over Shugg’s Creek, road
Rydalmere to Carlingford
Additions, Wilcannia Gaol
Erection of Police Quarters, Wel-
lington
Repairs Court House, Coonarable
Additions Police Station, New-
castle
'Wednesday,
March 19,
at 11 o’clock.
Installation of Electric Light Wednesday,
Bullock Island, Newcastle May 14,
i at 11 o’clock.
BRUCE SMITH.
General Post Office.
Sydney, 10th February, 1890,
ATTENTION is directed to Gazette Notice
inviting Tenders for the conveyance of
mails between Eauabalong and Lake Oudgellico ;
Richmond and Agnes Banks (Yarramundi); Cargo
and Canangles ; Wilson’s Downfall and River-
tree.
Tenders will be received up to sth March next,
and must be addressed to the Secretary to the
Post Office, Sydney.
DANIEL O’CONNOR.
N
EW SOUTH WALES AWARDS AT THE
CENTENNIAL INTERNATIONAL
EXHIBITION, MELBOURNE, 1888.
The Executive Commissioner (The Hon. R.
Burdett Smith, C.M.G., M.L.C.,) desires that it
be notified for the information of New South
Wales Exhibitors that AWARD MEDALS
(First Degrees of Merit only carrying such medals)
are NOW READY FOR ISSUE from his Cham-
bers, 169 King-street, corner of Elizabeth-street
(upstairs), and that they can be had on personal
application to the undersigned, between 10 a.m.
and 3 p.m. daily, to 1 o’clock on Saturday ex-
cepted.
ALEX. GUMMING
Secretary for Distribution,
Furniture, &c.
EWTON AND LAMB.
FURNITURE and PIANOFORTE
WAREHOUSEMEN,
CABINETMAKERS, UPHOLSTERERS
BEDDING MANUFACTURERS.
SHOW BOOMS AND MANUFACTORY:
SPRING AND O’CONNELL STREETS.
Full suites for dining-room—side-
board, DINNER WAGGON, TABLE,
OVERMANTEL, COUCH, EASY CHAIRS,
CARVING CHAIRS and DINING CHAIRS,
all to match. Newton & Lamb.
Of ELF-ADJUSTING HAMMOCK CHAIR,
This chair adjusts itself to any position, from
sitting to reclining and vice versa, at the will of
the occupant. It is simple yet ingenious in its
construction; works automatically. The above
out represents only two of the numerous positions
that can be obtained instantly, and with but little
effort. It fits perfectly every part of the body,
and gives the occupant entire rest. We can now
supply portable suspension Stands to enable the
Chair to be used anywhere. Price, with Stand,
305.; without Stand, 255.
Packing in canvas, if required, 2s. 6d. extra.
RAWINGvROOM SUITES, Fashionably
Upholstered, at all prices.
OCCASIONAL TABLES in all Woods. Im-
mense variety of designs; also, elegantly
finished in Embroidery, Plush, &c. Newton and
Lamb.
AND
Patented.
fr'. _ fTj2
if
■
~\\T ALNUT FALL
VV FRONT PEDESTAL
WRITING DESKS, of vari-
ous sizes, fitted with Shelves,
Moveable Pigeon-holes, Slid-
ing Trays, Stationery, Draw-
ers, revolving portable triple
Inkstand. Receptacles for
Stamps, and Ruler and Pen
Racks. Outside Drawers divided into compart-
ments by movable partitions to admit of enlarging
or diminishing the space when required. Looks
automatically. One of the most useful, commo-
dious, and perfectly-planned articles for the Library
or Office yet produced. Admirably suited to the
necessities of professional and business men.
ALNUT FALL FRONT SINGLE
PEDESTAL WRITING DESK.-
Internal arrangements almost identical with the
description given above. Price only £l2 10s.
m
DRAWING-ROOM
CABINETS.
Early English
CHIPPENDALE DESIGNS.
Newton & Lamb.
ŧ
JJEDSTEADS, all size
Nickel-plated and Black and
Brass. Great variety.
Bedding . All descriptions
at lowest rates.
Newton & Lamb.
tt
SPRING MAT-
TRESSES (Woven
Wire), best make; also,
Spiral Spring.
Price, from 7s. 6d. each.
CHEAP FURNITURE.—Pine Tables, from
10s. ; Dining Tables, from 20s. ; Kitchen
Dressers, from 225. 6d.; Washstands, from 12s. 6d.;
Chests of Drawers, from 405.; Wardrobes, from
80s.; Cedar Oheffoniers, from 30s. ; Cedar Side-
boards, from £3 35.; Clothes Horses, from
Bs. 6d. ; Writing Tables, with drawers, from 255.
ţ
tce chests.
ALL SIZES.
PRICES LOW.
NEWTON and LAMB.
ť
“ITIXCELSIOR
UPRIGHT
IMPROVED
REFRIGERATORS.
Various Sizes, from 455.
N
E W TON AND LAMB.
FURNITURE and PIANOFORTE
WAREHOUSEMEN,
CABINETMAKERS, UPHOLSTERERS
AND
BEDDING MANUFACTURERS.
Show Rooms and Manufactory ;
SPRING and O’CONNELL STREETS.
The Referee
“Joe” Darby, the world’s champion jumper,
has cleared 6ft. 9in., with his ankles firmly tied toy ether,
on the stage of the Britannia Music Hall, Glasgow, at the
first attempt. He is a real wonder.
* * *
Harry Blinman, one of the S. A. cricketing team
now in Sydney, is a holder of Broken Hill shares. Some
three or four years ago he invested about £l5O in original
Brokens. He has stuck to the mine ever since, and is
now worth about £7OOO clear profit on his original specu-
lation. Jack Lyons is also reputedly “ welMined ” through
judicious speculation in Barrier stock.
# # *
Macquarie, who won the Launceston Oup, is
full brother to that handsome, slippery horse Bothwell.
* # *
The second match between Mr. L. Clarke and
Captain Brewer, at the Melbourne Gun Club grounds,
resulted in some very deadly pigeon-potting. Mr. Clarke
missed only four birds out of his hundred at 30 yards rise,
while the American captain, giving our feathered friends
an extra three yards grace, allowed five of them to fly
away home. There was money to be made by laying
18 to 1 on the weapon.—
Potting pigeons that flutter from traps
Is condemned by some soft-hearted chaps,
And to leave only five
In a hundred alive—
Well, it’s “ pigeon it strong,” perhaps.
# # *
The Brisbane people have been giving a picnic
to Bubear. At one time and another Bubear has given
regular picnics to the scullers who beat him.
# # *
A London sporting paper gives its solemn pro-
mise to the world at large that it will never, under any
circumstances, print the name of Pelican Club “cham-
pion” Smith again. The rag in question has wiped
Smith off the tablets of its memory, and nothing is left
for the disgraced pug. but to change his name to Carring-
ton and open out on some other branch of “sport.”
# * *
Slavin writes to London Sportsman asserting
that “ true Britishers had nothing to do with the unfair
treatment I received,” and that “ the roughs cannot be
classed as time Britishers.” The “ rough ”is just as much
a Britisher as is the “larrikin” an Australian, and
brutality is just as characteristically national as are any
of the loudly-vaunted British virtue.
# # *
Since the introduction of telegraph-wires and
“special reporters” robbed the Turf of all respectable
mystery and romance, there has been nothing kept darker
than was Sabinus for the Epsom Spring Handicaps of
1868. The subsequently famous gelding had not run as a
two-year-old, and was accordingly (being without that
public notoriety known as “ private reputation ”) thrown
into the City and Suburban and Metropolitan at the
minimum weight. In those days books were open on both
races for months before they came off, so the stable
backed Sabinus for each event slowly and steadily, until
they stood to win a fortune at odds which are only dreamt
about in Australia. After a bit certain clever outsiders
began to smell mischief in the “ three-year-old gelding
Sabinus —sst. 71b.,” and sent secret emissaries to his train-
ing quarters, whereupon it transpired that none of the
lads knew Sabinus. The identity of several young
horses in the stable had been prudently enveloped
in a haze of doubt, and the very name of
Sabinus was never breathed aloud on the premises.
The boys only knew their good thing under the nom-de-
stable of “ Terror.” One of them was specially told off to
ride “ Terror ” at exercise, and in due course this innocent-
looking cherub—little Rowell—was taken up to the owner’s
house in London and carefully guarded for two or three
days, until it was time for him to depart for Epsom, still
under the boss’s sheltering wing, and win the great double
event on Sabinus. Horse and boy made their first appear-
ance together.
# # *
At Foley’s, on Saturday night, the twoPynnont
boxers, O’Toole and Quigley, met for battle. Quigley in
the first few rounds belted his adversary in a style calcu-
lated to make any but a game man quit the scene of his
labours. But O’Toole took his gruel like a glutton until
Quigley had played himself out with his own exertions,
and then both sparred for wind until the fourteenth
round, when O’Toole got a chance right on, and following
up his advantage in style clean knocked his opponent out.
The O’Toole now holds the proud position of champion
middle-weight of Pyrmont.
* * »
In a match played at Melbourne on Saturday,
Dr. Barrett (who took over an hour to score a run in the
late intercolonial) made 128 runs, not out.
* * *
The Victorians are so English, dontcherknow.
They wanted to refer our cricketing disputes to the
Marylebone Club; and now they are importing a shipload
of “knuckledusters,” the weapon with which the Britishers
tried to kill Slavin.
* # *
The first intercolonial cricket-match between
South Australia and New South Wales commences to-day
(Thursday) on Sydney Association cricket-ground. The
Southerners are a rattling good lot, and will give the
home team all they know to win.
* # #
The exodus of Australian boxers continues on
the 19th instant, when Larry Foley, Jim Hall, and “Griffo”
leave for the United States. Jim Hall is going over with
the intention of meeting the best of the middle-weights.
There is nothing at present in Sydney has any show, at
his weight, with Hall, who is the coolest and one of the
most scientific fighters we have yet seen. He has a
terribly punishing left hand and his only fault is his
slowness in following up an advantage, but maybe Hall
has hitherto fought to instructions, and not shewn him*
self “all out.” In “Griffo,” who, by the way, is said to be
a close descendant of the mighty Tom Sayers, goes, with-
out doubt, the smartest feather-weight Sydney has raised,
but it is a question whether his hitting power is commen-
surate with his smartness, and should he meet Australian
Murphy it remains to be seen whether his cleverness will
carry him out of the reach of Murphy’s smashers. Larry
goes on a pleasure trip, and “business” will be
looked after by B. Cooke, out of whom even the re-
nowned “ Parson” Davies will have hard work to get any
ohaog*.
* # #
Mr. Andrew Town, the famous N.S.W. horse
breeder, did not long survive his pecuniary troubles. He
died on Monday morning. His heart was broken at the
loss of his patrimonial estate, which was lately foreclosed
upon by the mortgagees. If all men connected with
horse-racing were straight and true as was Andrew Town
the turf would indeed be the sport of kings and not a
mere spiders web.
# * *
In the absence of the ex-demon, Spofforth, it is
quite interesting to hear George Bonnor on the cricket
question. “Dick” Hewitt was on the topic with the
giant recently when the latter expressed the opinion that
there were but two cricketers worthy the name in Aus-
tralia. To which Hewitt merely returned, “ Who’s the
other, Bonnor ? ”
The cable people have thought it of sufficient
interest to Australians to flash the news across the wires
that poor old Jem Mace was defeated in a boxing-match
by Charles Mitchell, for a stake Of £lOOO. That Mace
could find £5OO to be backed against a clever young man
like Mitchell is too ridiculous to need comment, and the
whole thing reads “gate.” If this sort of thing goes on
it will be necessary to start a society for the prevention of
cruelty to old men. It is just a quarter of a century
since Jem Mace beat Hurst and secured the championship.
# * *
Tiie South Australian cricketers were cham-
pagne-lunched at Sydney Town Hall by Mayor Burdekin,
the other day. Of course Dan the Irrepressible was
there, of course he made a spaich, and, of course, he
slithered the Mayor up and buttered him down ere he
waded into cricketing matters. In his peroration he
struck a bold note and proceeded to eulogise—“The pair-
less Jims of Australian pluck who have won eternal glory
on the goreless cricket-fields as in the calm repose of
family loife,” and then went on to remark that “ these
hayroes will be aloike wilkum wherever they may go
from Cape York to Cape Otway, aloike in George-street,
Sydney ; Bourke-street, Melbourne; Queen-street, Bna«
bane, or in”—here he paused for a moment, and then,
taking his cue from a wicked newspaper-man, hastily
added, “or in Light-square , Adelaide” —and sat down
’mid thunders of applause, flattered by his reception, and
yet reflecting that he had made better speeches and been
more coldly received. Of course, everyone is not privi-
leged to know exactly what sort of a spot Light-square,
Adelaide, is.
* * *
Mick O’Brien has lately been suffering from a
nasty attack of asthma, hence the appearance of Tom
Hales in Mr. Donald Wallace’s colours.
Cadging Tucker from the Chow.
(A SUNDOWNER'S GRIEVANCE.)
Let them brag not of the virtues of the noble
British race
Which must soon all other people from tins uni-
verse efface.
Though to might and money sometimes will an
Asiatic bow,
Yet you’ll find a dozen Britons cadging tucker
from the Ohow.
When a swagman on the wallaby a gin I . - got for
mate.
He’s held up to public censure as a soulless repro-
bate ;
If he trades for blackraan’s blankets there s a law
to disallow,
Yet it’s legal when a white man cadges tucker
from a Ohow.
They have passed an act excluding all these sons
of Gengis Khan,
They’ve imposed a heavy poll-tax on the slant-
eyed yellow man,
Yet, on ev’ry inland station, when the sun is get-
ting low,
You can find a dozen white men cadging tucker
from the Chow.
When a traveller for rations only gets a “ pint of
dust,”
While he’s forced to hump a bluey, why! then
“ touch ” the cook he must.
But within the kitchen’s precincts to the pagan,
squatters bow,
And this is why the white man cadges tucker
from the Chow.
To talk of Federation and of Irrigation, too, _
To me seems silly bunkum while there’s bigger
things to do,
For, worst of all the grievances ’neath which we
labour now
Is that which sends a white man cadging tucker
from the Chow.


Amusements.
rjIHEATKE ROYAL.
Under the Management of Messrs. Williamson,
Garner and Musgrove.
Lessee, Mr. S. Lazar. Treasurer, Mr. Geo. L. Goodman.
IMMENSE SUCCESS OF
LITTLE LORD PAUNTLE ROY,
By Mrs. Frances Hodgson Burnett.
LITTTLE LORD FAUNTLEROY .. MISS BEKIALEx.
Admission—ss., 3s. and Is.
■g|-ER MAJESTY’S THEATRE.
Lessee and Manager ... Mr. Geo. Rignold.
Doors open at 7 ; commencing 7.30. Carriages at R).4n.
To-Night and Every Evening,
Shakespeare's Fairy Comedy,
A MIDSUMMER [MIGHT’S DREAM.
Box Office at Theatre from 10 to 5. Brices as usual.
J. r. Macdonald, Acting-Manager.
qeitekion theatre
Sole Proprietor .... Mr. John Solomon.
Under the Management of Messrs. Brough and Boucioault.
General Manager . .. Mr. Marne.
Doors Open,
Overture, 8. Carriages, 10.27.
LAST TWO NIGHTS! LAST TWO NIGHTS!
the Original Favclal Comedy in 3 acts,
—T H jES BALLOON,-
by Geo. Manville Fenn and J. H. Darn ley.
SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 15,
CASTE (By arrangement with Mr. Geo. Rignold).
Admission ... £2 2s. to Is.
Box Plan at Nidholson’s. Carriages at 10.25 p.m.
Joe Davis, Business Manager.
T
he CYCLORA M A!
The most popular and successful show ever presented
•<Xn no theatre in all the world does such an exciting
tragedy hold the boards. In the Gettysburg picture is
pourtrayed one of the most heartrendenng realities of
history."”— Chicago Evening Journal.
Open Every Day 10 bo 10. BAND Daily.
ADMISSION—2s. Sundays, 3 to 10, Half-price.
CYCLORAMA! CYCLOEAMA!
-g O N D I AQUARIUM.
The Most Popular
PICNIC and PLEASURE GROUNDS OK AUSTRALIA.
The Famous Switchback Railway, conveying
Passengers from Cliff to Cliff daily.
Splendid Asphalt Open-Air Skating-Rink Free to Visitors.
Open Daily from 10 a.m f o 10 p.m.
Admission, Is.; Children, 6d. Trams to Gate—Fare, 4d
SCHOOL OF ARTS.
Lessee - Mr. Harry Rickards. Trcas. —Mr. J. C. Leete.
The brilliant season of the RICKARDS NEW ENGLISH
AND IRISH COMEDY COMPANY is now coming to a
close, and will positively terminate on Monday Evening
the 17 inst. in a Monster Testimonial Benefit to Mr.
Harry Rickards, when all the available talent in Sydney
will appear. Saturday Night, “ SPOONS.
jpgr- p r ices—3s., 2s. and Is. Plan at Nicholson’s.
Wm. A. Jinkins, Business Manager.
EMU R P
<,PAT and ELLA).
Their engagement with Mr. Harry Rickards
will terminate on the Bth of June, 1890. They
will then proceed to London, in which city they
will appear at the Tuocadero, Canterbury,
Paragon and Queen’s (Poplar) Music Halls on
Bank Holiday (4th August). Their engagements
will extend to eight weeks. Engagements in
America will then follow with Williams and
Kernell's Comedy Co., the Murphys being engaged
to that firm at the largest salary ever paid to two
artists in their capacity. , ,
Agent for London— ! 1 red. Higham, 143 Stanford
street, S.C. .
Remember! The Murphys have an extensive
repertoire.
Business Announcements.
COUNTRY STOREKEEPERS, ETC.
Should write or call upon
A. H. MARKS & CO.,
—lmporters op—
Furniture, Pianofortes, Class, Earthenware,
CHINA, FANCY GOODS, ELECTRO PLATE,
CICLIKS * TOBACCONISTS SUNDRIES.
SOLE AGENTS FOR
Dawn Cigars and Salonica Turkish Cigarettes.
Special Novelties in all Lines for Christmas Trade.
Price.* on Application to—
. A.. M. Marks & Co,,
Vickery’s Buildings, 74a Pitt Streeet, Sydney,
AND AT LONDON.
Telephone, No. 91S). .
HOT and CO'ED
Seawater B aths »
W aiirn am bool, Victoria.
HYGIENIC, CURATIVE.
Curbs
SCIATICA, RHEUMATISM,
Nervous & Skin Diseases.
Testimonials from all parts of the
Colonies.
Water direct from Southern Ocean
pumped by gas motor, retaining all
natural qualities ; free from objec-
tions of Bay water. Large Swim-
ming basins for ladies and gentle-
men. Marble plunge baths, hand-
somely appointed. Bracing air,
charming scenery, fishing, shooting,
beautiful drives place Warrhambool
' i the front rank as a sanatorium.
TIT 4 vrrmrn some really smart Resident
\\ Ai N I ill/., Agents in all the Country
Towns throughout the Colonies. A Com PORTABLE
Income for Energetic Persons of either sex.
Apply at once, as time is money, to
“FORTUNE,’’
P.O. Box 570, Sydney, N.S.W.
“The richest blood, sweetest breath, and fairest
skin in Dr. Soule’s American Hop Bitters. ’
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
Nota Bene! In addition to their High Class old
Wines, Messrs. Hookings & Co., of 410 George-street, have
accepted the agency of the Australian Wine Conipanj,
Limited, for their superior cheap wines.
Everybody says—and what everybody says must be true
—that Pemell’s Snow white Patent Roller Floor is the
best in the market.
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
ŧ
dl
s
o
M
T
U
T
.
DELISSAs. PHILLIPS
3 &5 Barrack Street.
Gold Medal
Acknowledged
The Best
Ask for the
Unequalled
“DAWN” 3d. CIGAR,
Of all
Tobacconists,
t
Store
AND
Hotel
KEEPERS.
Wholesale Agents: A. M.
MARKS & Co., 74a PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
WHiS
DAW SOU'S
Sole Agents for Australasia
VAUGHAN, EOGEKS & 00.,
(Opposite G.P.0.)
108 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
p
E
R
F
E
C
T
I
O
N
WHISKY.
sITB-A G E N T s WAN T R D
IN THE
PRINCIPAL CENTRES
THROUGHOUT AUSTRALASIA
T
HE
GREAT REMEDY
ST. JACOBS
FOR RAIN
OIL.
WHAT IT IS.
SIX STANDARD VIRTUES.
Ist.—lt is in one word a cure; it is not merely
a relief, and in no sense a cure-all; it is the product
of scientific research.
2nd—lt strengthens while it soothes and sub-
dues, heals and cures ; it literally conquers pain.
3rd.--Its effects arc curative and permanent to
the whole group of muscular miseries and nervous
agonies.
4th. —It does not merely irritate the outer sur-
face, nor does it merely soften or iclax a con
stricted muscle. To its specific action a superior
curative virtue is superaddod.
sth.—lt penetrates deeply but gently ; search-
ingly and surely, seeking the pain spot in an e 01
to conquer.
6th.—Each constituent of the formula has a
recognised intrinsic virtue to serve most surely t ie
cure of pain.
SOLD BY DRUGGISTS AND DEALERS
EVERYWHERE.
E WATERBURY WATCH AT SEA.
A Waterbury Watch took the place of a
chronometer, and was used to navigate a vessel
when the ship’s instruments were broken. At
least such is the burden of the following extract
from the columns of the Ansonia (Conn.) Lveninc
Sentinel :
“Washington, September 19.—Lieut.-Com-
mander Stockton, commanding the United States
steamer Thetis, now cruising in Alaskan waters,
notified the Navy Department that the American
schooner Norway, having on board Ensign Howard
and party, hence from San Franisco, have navi
gated to that port safely with no other means ot
finding longitude than a Waterbury \v ateh, her
chronometers having been broken. Lieutenant
Stockton loaned the party suitable instruments.
OUR EXCELLENT FRIEND AGAIN.
To Mr. Flint,—l have great pleasure in stating
according to your wish, that the Waterbury
Watch worn by me during my journeys in East
\frica, especially on my Kilema Ndscharo ex-
pedition, has done me quite splendid service.
While three other valuable watches of German
and English make failed me after short time, the
Waterbury has never failed, not even after having
been one day 13 hours under water, and in general
distinguished itself by its regular rate.
(Signed) OTTO E. EHLERS.
Channel of Suez, April 20, 1889.
On board the “ Orion.”
The world-famed WATERBURY may be ob-
tained from any respectable dealer throughout the
colonies. Price. Series E, 13s. 6d.; Series >T oi L,
20s. If anv difficulty should be experienced in
obtaining those Watches, write to the Waterbury
Watch Co.’s Repair Depot, 56 Margaret Street,
Sydney.
c
m
Colgate’s Cashmere Bouquet Toilet Soap
Is made with the utmost care from materials
selected with the
Greatest Regard for Purity.
And for the soothing and beneficial effect which
they impart to the skin and the complexion.
G-oia Medal, T*aris, 1889
“Unexcelled in Quality and Perfume.”
To be obtained from all Chemists and Dealers
in Perfumery. Take no substitute.
EVERYONE KNOWS, who shaves himself,
how exasperating it is, after having lathered his
face, to take up his razor to shave and find his
lather dried and Ins beard stiffer than ever. This
vil not happen when COLGATE’S DEMUL-
CENT SHAVING SOAP is used. Why?
Because the lather it makes is close and stays on
the face. Once made, it does not disappear and
leave the face dry, but is creamy soft to the skin
and permanent. Gentlemen interested will be
glad to learn that consignments of this elegant
toilet preparation are to hand, and it may be
obtained from all leading chemists and dealers in
toilet requisites. Those who have never had the
pleasurable experience of using it should lose no
time in doing so.
The name and trade-mark of COLGATE
and CO., on each article, assures purchasers
of superior and uniform quality.
A New Zealand Nobleman.
“ The First Catholic Count South op the
Line”- A Matchless Egotist—His Visit
to the Pope— A Speech to make you vbri
111.
The inchoate turnip in broadcloth and
boots, who yearneth for a title, a charity badge,
a livery, and things, flourishes alike in Australia
and in Maoriland. The latest description of this
vegetable formation hails from Wellington
(A.Z.). The hero of this tale is a certain Dr.
Grace, M.L.C., whose medical skill has been
displayed, not only in relation to the human
species, but also with respect to the adminis-
tration of horse-balls to the tired steeds of the
Wellington Tramway Co., and whose chief claim
to fame, apart from the incident hereunder re.
lated, lies in the fact that lie is one of the two
proprietors of that fat monopoly, by which he
heretofore has obtained much filthy lucre. ihe
lucre—-for we never hear of poor Paddy Ryan,
the centiess stone-knapper, becoming a Count ot
the Holy Roman Empire—has recently won
for the doctor a certificate framed and
glazed permitting him to call himself Count
Grease when no one is looking, and constituting
him twenty-ninth deputy sub-assistant something -
or-other to the gentleman known by some as His
Holiness the Pope, and by Dawvid Buchanan as
the “Soairlet Wooin’n.”
* * *
The gentleman who is now Count Grease
lately made a pilgrimage from N.Z., rid the
United States, to Rome, posing en route as a
“Distinguished Colonist,” and arriving at the
Seven Hills with a number-ten smile. What he
paid directly or indirectly for the patent of
nobility will never be disclosed, but those who
know him best, including the tramway employes,
swear that he got his patent with the least pos-
sible expenditure of scudi, or whatever is the
Roman equivalent for threepenny-pieces with
holes in them. Armed with a small, cheap
countship, the “Honourable Count Grease,
M.L.C.,”returned recently to Wellington and was
tendered a banquet (of the Burdett-Smithian
order), tickets, one guinea each, at which gorge
his countship—of course completely taken by sur-
prise and utterly unprepared, dontcherknow
fired off an impromptu hour-and-a-half oration
which he had carried in his coat-tail ever since he
had left Babylon and which sounded as if it had
been in type seven days before he let it go with
a dull, sickening thud. An apparently verbatim
report of this precious oration is now in front of
The Bulletin. Here are a few hunks ;
Why should I think myself worthy, selected as I have
been from out so vast an assemblage of _ really dis-
tinguished men ? Nevertheless such is the wisdom, such
the”far-reaching sagacity of the Holy See, that even my
appointment marks that blending of the past with the
present, and adaptation of the present to its legitimate
future, which has ever been the note of the Catholic
Church.
# *
Of course Count Grease dates from Brian
Born and the other illigant kings
I sprino- from an old and not undistinguished Catholic
family in°lreland. My forefathers, by their fidelity to the
Catholic Church—briefly, by their refusal to conform—
fell into comparative insignificance in the countries
[“countries” is comprehensive] where they had been all-
powerful. Political power, wealth, and importance slipped
from their fingers by degrees, yet their’s was not a nerve-
less grasp.
That’s so, but the present representative of the
family has made it up by penny-sections and
making tram-guards stir their stumps. He con-
tinues ;
Let us examine the dead past! [lmmense !] I remem-
ber ray grandfather as well as a child could a vigorous old
man ‘My grandfather was born 125 years ago. IVhen his
father was born the monument to his memory in the
“ Arles” church-yard will tell you if you consult it. He
was long dead when I was a child. My childhood and
early youth was spent in the contemplation of the ruin of
my family.
The following throws some light on the way the
countship was arrived at: —
It was at a time when the heart of his Holiness Leo
XIII. was moved with exceptional devotion to Ireland.
Thus, when I had the honour of an interview with him,
his Holiness treated me with inconceivable tenderness.
He gazed at me with his wistful, spiritual, intellectual
eyes and seemed to see in me the past, the present and
future. [Beautiful!) He spoke to me words which were
so flattering that in my sense of justice I exclaimed,
“ Your Holiness is mistaking me for some one else. lam
certain of it. I have done nothing to deserve suoli com-
mendation.” He looked alarmed for the moment, but
turning to his chamberlain, Monseigneur de la Volpe, he
said “Is it so? Am I mistaken?” Monseigneur de la
Volpe smiled and said, “That Is Senator your
Holiness” His Holiness turned his eyes from rne
Chamberlain to me with the shrewdest, funmest. kmdest
twinkle imaginable and said, Ho, ho , very well,
have not done anything to deserve n.y coninmndatioi a
have you not! May be you will in the future. So tna
settled.” . c n -
As Count Greece only talks the Italian of Aon
naught, it would be interesting to learn now he
came to understand the Pope’s brand of Italian.
What banged the Count, however, was the absence
of any great political excitement in England over
his patent of nobility. He says
In Ireland and America my appointment was receive
by the press with favour-1 had almost said with some
enthusiasm. In these waters, you would naturallj 'mw
with satisfaction a compliment paid to yourselves. The
Cathohc Press°in England took no -dec whatever of mo
-why should it ? lam practically unknown in E gland
except to a small extent by the creme de laaunt- -the
Stonyhurst circle.— [Naturally, cmae being greased
And now we want to be tucked in our little cot, a
twenty-five pound shot attached to our heels and
committed to the deep with or without the funeial-
service. We are very tired.
Dear Bulletin,— What is Duty? There
is the duty of Man, and there is the duty of the
State. I ask a swagmau. He is of opinion that
the squatter’s duty is to give him rations free.
The State’s duty is to find him easy work at seven
bob a day. 1 ask a policeman. He thinks the
whole duty of man is to get tight and tear hi.
uniform occasionally. He would then tie ni i .
easily procure promotion and a new suit, me
State’s duty is to give him rapid promotion and
increased pay. I ask a squatter. He opines that
the duty of man is to work for fifteen bob a week
and rations. Rations con ist of ten, ten, two and
a quarter. The duty of the State is to give him a
lone- lease of his run at a nominal rental, io give
him fixity of tenure so that he can borrow money
from the banks on State property ; to reduce Ins
rental so that he can pay the bank the interest on
that borrowed money ; to assist him m procuring
artesian water ; to compensate him for all improve-
ments he has made, or may mate, in order to work
the property to the best advantage for himself;
and to pay him for killing rabbits on the lan
leased him at a merely nominal rental. 1 ask a
clergyman. He tells me that the principal duty
of man is to place his “meenister” in a position
of “ independence ”; and the duty of the State is t(
assist individual effort in the same direction,
ask a Civil Servant. He informs me that the
duty of man is not to come worrying him during
office hours by “wanting to know, you know,
this beastly hot weather; that the duty of the
State is to promote him and transfer him to
Sydney. I give it up. What is duty?
BAKBLOX.


Business Announcements.
MASON BROTHERS,
ť
ŧ
LIMITED.
263 to 269 KENT STREET,
SYDNEY,
Have always in Stock for Salk to the
Trade and Wholesale Buyers Only,
Ironmongery, ami
GENERAL HARDWARE
(llass, China ami
EARTHENWARE.
I VINES, BEERS & SPIRITS,
AND GENERAL
BULK MERCHANDISE.
Agents for
JOHN WALKER and SONS
Old Highland Whisky.
J. SORIN and 00.’S
Cognac.
J. T. GAY'EN’S,
Schnapps and Geneva.
A. MELVIN and SON S’
Edinburgh Pale Ale.
3E3CE3 OTRY XSZXZKTGf-,
PHOTO-SCENIC ARTIST ,
316 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Is constantly adding fresh subjects to his Im-
mense Stock of Australian and New Zealand
Views, comprising every variety of subject taken
from Nature unadorned and Art glorified.
Marine Views and Landscapes,
Mountains and Caves,
Crack Yachts and Cathedrals,
Old Identities and Young Australians,
Everyday Sights and Stirring Incidents,
Stereo, and Lantern Slides,
High-class Portraiture.
Catalogues on Application.
316 George St., between Hunter and King Sts-
Medical.
IOIFL. SPEER’S
AMERICAN DISPENSARY
3 1 "ST or 1c Street.
P.O. Box 920.
Dr. Speer is a regular Graduated Physician, educated a I
Harvard College, U.S. (for confirmation see New Zealand
Gazette, January 21st, 1886; also New South Wale;
Gazette, April 17th, 1888). The doctor has devoted II
years to the study of CHRONIC, NERVOUS, AND
SPECIAL DISEASES. Four of these were in the leading
hospitals of the United States, which enables him to treat
all complaints with excellent results. All applying t(
him will receive his honest opinion of their complaints.
No experiment ing ;no Mercury used. He will guaranto
a positive cure in every case he undertakes, or forfeit
£2OO. His reason for doing so is this—when there is not
organic disease, and nothing but an inorganic trouble, or
in other words, a conglomeration of symptoms produoin;
a certain result, there is no reason why it cannot be re
moved with the proper remedies, therefore he guarantees.
He wishes it distinctly understood that he does not clain
to perform impossibilities, or to have miraculous power
he claims only to be a skilled and successful physician
thoroughly informed in his speciality—CHßONlC ani
SPECIAL DISEASES OF MEN and WOMEN. People
residing at a distance can, by explaining their troubles ii
detail be treated at home. The course of treatment wil
not in any way interfere with their business. Examina
tion and advice free to all. Charges moderate. H. J.
Speer, M D., 31 York-street, Sydney. Post Office Box
No. 920. Office hours, 10 a.m. 012 a.m. 2to 4 and .
to 8 p.m. Sundays from 10 to 11 a.m. only.
m
fT*-
&
O'cru
TO YOUNG MS3XT.
DR. FLETCHER S
TREATISE ON NERVOUS DISEASES, THEIR CAUSE,
SYMPTOMS, TREATMENT, AND CURE.
THE directions contained in this little treatise will Ir
found of immense benefit to the sufferer ; and if thes-
directions are observed during the early stages of Nervous
or Sexual Debility, No Medicines will he required, as, In
observing the directions given, the patient can Cure Him-
self.
This admirable little treatise is specially written tc
show a method of counteracting the evil effects of indis
cretions in early life—overwork, irregularity in eating oi
drinking, &c. It is the result of much study and long
and successful experience in the treatment of diseases,
and contains a fund of useful information to every suf
ferer from the following complaints, viz.:—Nervou-
Debility, Dizziness, Specks before the Eyes, Pains in th(
Back, Defective Memory, Loss of Will Power, Loss of
Energy, Spermatorrhoea, Bashfulness, Disoontentedness,
Constipation, Liver and Kidney Derangements, Atrophy.
Impotence, Impure Blood, Foul Taste in Mouth, Palpita
tion of Heart, Wakefulness, Despondency, Excessive Ner
vousness, Inability to Marry, Premature Decay, and othei
symptoms experienced by' nervous sufferers.
All Should Send for this Little Treatise.
If the complaint is of long standing and requires
medicine, Dr. Fletcher will GUARANTEE TO CURE
ANY CASE OF NERVOUS or SEXUAL DEBILITY
with ONE COURSE OP MEDICINES LASTING FIVE
WEEKS, and will send with medicines A WRITTEN
GUARANTEE to cure same or return the monies paid.
Dr. Fletcher’s treatment is both simple and effective,
and within the reach of the poorest. It is unlike any
other, and with it he has cured over 25,000 patients, and
invites patients to investigate his statements by verifying
the testimonials published in his treatise. The treatise
will be forwarded on receipt of two stamps to cover
postage.
CONSULTATION BY LETTER, FREE.
Address in first instance—
DR. H. EWART FLETCHER,
Box 1417, G.P.O.
Sydney, N.S.W.
Private address—Clonmel House, Waverley, Sydney.
Remember, all cases undertaken, guaranteed, and a
signed agreement given, which provides that NO COST
be incurred by the patient if a cure is not effected.
VARICOCELE RADICALLY CURED WITHOUT
OPERATION.
Mention this Paper.
Aarons’ Exchange Hotel, Sydney.
A? K, ■
wm
' • .. c
- ..s.
;i i-i -
u <r
t: *
Tg
sA .
:
■Y’A
11
H V';
■ ‘ j
SI
T* ilfi f -V v~
\ - ■ •
x
. i*-
as
5 m:
■
■
Adjoining the Sydney Exchange.
Mining, Financial and General Mercantile Intelligence
Posted several times DAILY in the Building - .
TELEGRAPH, POST and MONEY ORDER OFFICES on the PREMISES.
(..)
This Hotel has been thoroughly renovated and re-furnished, and is now unrivalled for comfort
nd attention.
Aarons’ Exchange Hotel Co. (Limited), Proprietors.
i3T £lOOO FOR XOs. 6<3.. -«a
O END P. 0.0, or stamps for 10s. (id. with stamped addressed envelope to CRAIG and AITKBIJ,
Tobacconists, GBO George-street, Sydney, anl you will receive a ticket in the
Sand.liu.rst Masonic Art Union,
which is to he drawn during the present month. Note the list of prizes :
Ist. Prize, £lOOO ; 2nd, £5OO ; 3rd, £200; 4th, £100;
2 Prizes at £5O; 5 Prizes at £2O; 10 Prizes at £10;
20 tf at £5; 20 , } at £3; 20 ~ at £2;
And 539 Prizes at £l.
i&~ RESULT PUBLISHED PPsT DAILY PLAPDEDRS. lE*
The most legitimate thing you could put a spare half-guinea in.
-ELECTRIC PHOTO-ENG. GO * SYDNEY.
The Oxford Hotel, King Street, Sydney.
H. THORPE ... ... ... Proprietor.
JONES’ SEWING MACHINES,
FOR THE BOOT AND TAILORING TRADES.
The Best Manufacturing Machines in Existence*
Now Perfected, tlie New No. 3 and No. 4 Machines on an Entirely new System
STOCK JUST nil A .TST HD I TnT G-.
3XTettlxeim, & 00.
TANNERS AND LEATHER MERCHANTS,
16 x YORK x OTIOLZEiEST, x SYTDNTEY.
Sole Agents for the above for New South Wales and Queensland
( x )
ALSO Importers of Requisites for the BOOT MANUFACTURING TRADE in all
IMPORTED LEATHERS, &e, ; and of the following- Special Links: rrrrlois
(Harking. Tanners’ Tools and Materials, pi*"’ Indents Executed
Details, including MACHINERY
moss. So tin Pollsli, Nubian
on favourable Terms.
Medical.
DR. RICHARDS.
CONSU
111 11
3
3
□ « RICHARDS
C
This eminent Specialist, Founder, and Chief
Surgeon of the long-established and favourably-
known Dispensary that now bears his name, re-
ceived his medical education in the leading colleges
and hospitals of Europe. He hps devoted a life-
time to the study of
PRIVATE, NERVOUS, AND SKIN
DISEASES.
He has by profound research thoroughly investi-
gated their origin, traced their deadly sources and
insidious dissemination, and ascertained the surest
and safest methods by which they may bo eradi-
cated, with these widely recognised qualifications
combined with unswerving faithfulness to hit
patients, he has during his practice, extending
over FORTY YEARS, attained a well-deserved
pre-eminence in their treatment. His practice
embraces diseases which probably cause more un-
happiness than any other class of troubles that
afflict mankind.
YOUNG MEN
who suffer from the results of early follies, trans-
gressions or excesses of more nature age, bladder
difficulties, a whitish or dark ropy sediment in
the water, accompanied by slight burning or
smarting sensation, Headaches, Drowsiness during
(he day, circles round the eyes, Giddiness,
irregularity of the bowels, specks before the eyes,
bashfulness, discontentedness, weakness or pains
in the back, Liver or kidney complaints, dreams,
buzzing noises in the ears and head, pimples, a
fear that something dreadful is about to happen,
weak stomach, yellow or blood-shot eyes, impure
blood, hasty, uncontrollable temper, hacking
cough, who cannot marry, nervousness in society,
wakefulness, palpitation of the heart, general
weakness, and other symptoms which lead to in-
sanity and death, should consult him, for he has
mastered these difficulties. On receipt of 6d. in
stamps he will send secure from observation in a
plain wrapper, postage
FREE, A LARGE CLOTH-BOUND
BOOK.
Showing plainly how all diseases of the private or
nervous system may be cured thoroughly and per-
manently without unnecessary expence. This
book will prove a valuable companion, and even
though you be perfectly well its general inform-
tion and prescription may assist you in restoring
some poor friend to health even after his case has
been pronounced incurable by his medical at-
tendant.
ONE POUND IS SUFFICIENT TO
SEND
for Remedies necessary for the cure of NER-
VOUS DEBILITY. Should you require medical
treatment, as procrastination is sometimes dan-
gerous, it would be advisable for you to sit down
quietly in your chamber and write to the doctor,
detailing every experienced symptom. He will
on receipt of such a letter, write you, promptly
and courteously, a candid and straightforward
oponion of your case. If you do not think you
understand the case, send for his famous medical
work, the price of which is but sixpence ; enclosed
in the volume will be found a list of carefully-pre-
pared questions, which will, in all probability,
assist yon materially in describing your ailment.
Dr. Richards uses nothing but the purest remedies,
and never prescribes mercury under any circum-
stances. The moment letters are carefully per-
used and answered they are destroyed by lire,
and patients may rest assured that their cases
will remain a secret between the doctor and
themselves. Dr. Richards has successfully treated
nearly 25,000 cases since coming to Australia, and
has permission from at least 10,000 persons to
show their written evidence of his success. All
communications should be addressed
Dr. RICHARDS,
■7 Spring Street
(Off Pitt Street North)
SYDNEY.
Be sure to mention this paper when writing
CONSULTATION FREE.
PEACEMAKER: “I wouldn’t
light, my good men.”
1ST COMBATANT: “He called
me a liar, sur.”
2ND COMBATANT: “ An’ ho
called me a lazy loafer.”
Peacemaker: “Well, I
wouldn’t fight over a
difference of opinion;
you both may be right.”
—AMER.


“The leading Packet Tea in Now South Wales
is the Famous Billy Tea. Its consumption is
at least double that of any other brand in the
market.”
PACKED ONLY BY
James Xn.gs'l.i.is Co.,
4 & 6 Dean’s Place, SYDNEY.
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
Bona-Fide announcement. Highest cash price
given for all kinds of gent’s left off clothing.
Dress-suits for sale or hire. Letters promptly
attended to by QUITTENTON BROS., 11l
Russell street, MELBOURNE. {New number,
163.)
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
Shipping.
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF NEW
ZEALAND, Limited.
SAN FRANCISCO ROYAL MAIL SERVICE.
OVERLAND ROUTE TO ENGLAND VIA SAN
FRANCISCO AND NEW YORK,
Calling at
AUCKLAND and HONOLULU,
Avoiding alike the heat of the Red Sea and the cold
of Cape Horn.
Under Contract with the Postmasters-General of New
South Wales and New Zealand, the steamers of this line
are appointed to leave Sydney and Auckland for Honolulu
and San Francisco every four weeks, sailing as under: —
Each steamer carries a duly qualified surgeon.
These steamers are fitted with Electric Light and with a
Refrigerating Chamber for ship provisions, insuring a
plentiful supply of ice throughout the voyage.
Passengers are booked to San Francisco or through to
European destinations and have at San Francisco choice of
the unrivalled Atlantic Steamship Lines of the Cunard,
Inman, White Star, and other companies.
All first-class passengers are allowed 3501 b. of baggage
to San Francisco and 2501 b. “ Overland ” free of charge.
THROUGH FARE TO LIVERPOOL.
FIRST-CLASS £63 to £66.
Time-cards, railway maps, and gu'de books, showing all
routes to any point in the United States, may be had on
application
For rates of passage and freight and all other informa-
tion apply at the Company’s Offices, 15 Bridge-street.
FREibK. W. JACKSON, Manager.
LICHTNER & CO.,
SYDNEY;
318 GEOEGE STEEET
BRISBANE
9 ELIZABETH STEEET
PHOTOGRAPHIC
-STOCK-
IMPORTERS.
K
%
4
: T
w\iy
*Ut *
ear SEND FOR OUR NEW ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE
—OF— *
CAMERAS, LENSES, CHEMICALS, MAGIC LANTERNS,
And all Articles appertaining to PHOTOGRAPHY.
):(
CHEAP A-IVtA-TEXIR OUTFITS.
Shipping.
JJUDDART, PARKER and CO.’s LINE.
STEAM TO MELBOURNE AND
TASMANIA.
FROM HUDDART, PARKER’S WHARF ;
FOR MELBOURNE WHARF DIRECT—
Elingamite 1 4000 tons | Tuesday, Feb. 18at5p.m.
FOR LAUNCESTON, VIA MELBOURNE—
transhipping to S.S. NEWCASTLE.
Elingamite | 4000 tons | Tuesday, Feb. 18at5p.m.
These magnificent Steamships have already established
a reputation for their accommodation, and their large size
insures passengers a maximum of comfort. The SALOON
CABINS are light and airy and very roomy. FORE-
-CABIN is on main deck, lofty and well ventilated. Com-
plete sanitation and lavatories. ELECTRIC LIGHTING
throughout the ships. Inspection invited on days of
sailing.
RETURN TICKETS AVAILABLE FOR SIX MONTHS.
For rates of Freight and Passage-money apply
HUDDART, PARKER & CO., Limited.
Offices and Wharf-Foot of Margaret-street.
BJSASMANIAN EXCURSIONS.
The splendid
S.S. ELINGAMITE, 4000 Tons,
will sail as under for HOBART DIRECT.
ELINGAMITE, Tuesday, 18th February, at 5 p.m.
GREAT REDUCTION IN FARES.
SALOON £lO 0
RETURN 1 10 0
STEERAGE .. 0 10 0
RETURN TICKETS AVAILABLE FOR SIX MONTHS.
Also GREAT REDUCTION iN FREIGHT.
HUDDART, PARKER & CO, Limited.
Office and Wharf—Foot of Margaret Street.
NORDDEUTSCHER LLOYD.
IMPERIAL GERMAN MAIL.
Passengers are carried according to the requirements of
the English Passenger Acts, of 1885 and 1863.
MONTHLY LINE OP DIRECT STEAMERS
from
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, and ADELAIDE,
to SOUTHAMPTON, ANTWERP, and BREMEN, via
COLOMBO, Aden, Suez, and Genoa,
taking passengers for London,
connecting from PORT SAID by DIRECT MAIL and
PASSENGER LINE to BRINDISI,
will be despatched as follows (if practicable):—
Steamer.
Commander.
Salier .. .. W.Roimkasten
Nurnberg .. H. Englebart
Kaiser Wil-
helm 11. L. Stormer
April 19 April 27 April 29
And thereafter every four weeks.
PASSAGE MONEY from SYDNEY,
£l4 to £57 10s.
RETURN TICKETS, available for NINE and TWELVE
MONTHS, at REDUCED RATES.
Passengers and Cargo are booked through to New York,
via Southampton.
Special facilities are afforded for bringing out relatives
and friends from the United Kingdom and Europe by pre-
payment of the passage money in Australia.
For FREIGHT, PASSAGE, and all further particulars,
apply to FREDK. BETZ & CO., Agents, 5 O’Connell-street.
J~JIRECT SERVICE TO ENGLAND.
PENINSULAR AND ORIENTAL STEAM
NAVIGATION COMPANY.
The Company’s Royal Mail Steamships (under contract
with the Imperial, New South Wales, Victorian, and South
Australian Governments) will be dispatched from their
Wharf, Circular Quay, as under, for LONDON, calling at
Melbourne, Adelaide, Albany, Colombo, Aden, Brindisi,
Malta, Gibraltar, and Plymouth.
And henceforth every alternate week.
RESERVED CABINS ON MODERATE TERMS.
SALOON PASSENGERS MAY BREAK THEIR JOURNEY.
The arrangements for SECOND SALOON PASSENGERS
having been thoroughly re-organised, the accommodation
now offered is unsurpassed. Passage-money can be paid
here for passages from England. Liberal concessions made
to families. Passengers, cargo, and parcels are booked
through to India, China, and Japan. Cargo and parcels
will not be received after 3 p.m. on the day previous to
sailing. For all information apply at the Company’s
Offices, 247 George-street, A. MACLEAN Acting Agent.
COMPAGNIE DES MESSAGERIES MARI-
TIMES.
SYDNEY to LONDON.
OVERLAND FROM MARSEILLES via PARIS.
Steamers under postal contract with the Government of
Prance, calling at MELBOURNE ADELAIDE, KING
GEORGE’S SOUND, MAKE, SUEZ, and PORT SAID.
Passengers booked to KURRAGHBE, BOMBAY,
MAURITIUS, and EAST COAST of AFRICA.
The service is carried on by powerful steamers of 4000
tons and 3000 effective h.p., built expressly for the Aus-
tralian and New Caledonian line, which will be despatched
as follows: —
And thenceforward on the 25th of each month.
Rates of passage-money to Marseilles from £2O to £66,
including table wines and Suez Canal dues on passengers.
RETURN TICKETS issued at the following rates:— ,
English interpreters meet through passengers for
London on arrival of steamers at Marseilles, and accom-
pany them to Paris and Calais. N.B.—Passengers’ luggage
conveyed free of cost from Marseilles to London. For
freight, passage, and further particulars apply at the
Company’s Office, 15 Macquarie-place.
A. CONIL, Principal Agent.
JOHN BRIDGE & 0 0.,
CIRCULAR QUAY, SUSSEX STREET, &
DARLING HARBOUR,
WOOL BROKERS,
Hides, Tallow, Sheepskins, Kangaroo, Bear and
Opossum Skins, Ac.
atjctioWeees.
GRiSLIW SA.X.SSMX33VT.
THE STORY OF MAJOR MUDIE
Judge Therry Follows Mudie’s Career to
its Close.
“ When I next met Mudie he was taking a pro-
minent part in a series of prosecutions instituted
against one William Watt, a clever and educated
convict, who contrived, during the administration
of General Darling, to get himself installed into
a sort of sub-editorship of the Sydney Gazette.
His trials were at the time quite ‘sensation cases ’
in Sydney. Watt had been originally a chief
clerk in the respectable firm of Morrisson and Go.,
of London, and was transported for fourteen years
for embezzlement effected by false entries in the
books under his charge. In due time, he obtained
a tioket-of-leave on the recommendation of Arch-
deacon Broughton, whom he artfully interested in
his favour, and he became attached as a writer to
the Sydney Gazette : a newspaper which, pre-
vious to Sir R. Bourke’s arrival, was the indis-
creet advocate of all the measures of his prede-
cessor. During the exciting trials of Mudie’s
men, the Sydney Gazette, in several articles, was
very lavish of its censure on Mudie’s mode of deal-
ing with his assigned servants. Of these articles
Watt was suspected to be the writer. ‘ Hdc fonte
derirata ’ the implacable hostility with which
pursued him afterwards. In the course of his
career Watt was charged with an act of serious
misconduct, which, if it had been established
against him and reported to the Governor (as in
ordinary course it should have been), would
have removed him from Sydney—the course taken
by the Governor afterwards, on a report of his
trial in the Supreme Court being officially pre-
sented to him. But removal from Sydney, or even
a' forfeiture of his ticket, would not have appeased
the wrath of those whom the articles, of the
authorship of which he was suspected, had
offended. Their object was to have him convicted
of felony, and sent to forced labour on the public
roads. In their eagerness to accomplish this end
the real impropriety imputed to Watt in the
transaction was lost sight of, which consisted in
sending a slip of paper, obtained from the
Herald office, to a party libelled in it, with the
view, it was presumed, of facilitating proof of
publication, in the event of the libelled party pre-
ferring a prosecution against the paper. Instead
of instituting an investigation to ascertain if the
facts sustained this accusation, the parties who
pursued Watt obtained’his committal, and that of
a eompositor of the Herald, ‘one for stealing and
the other for receiving, a piece of paper of the
value of one penny.’ This was the sole issue at
the trial. In fact, the piece of paper was value-
less. It was a slip of about half-a-column, such
as is usually swept out with the debris of a print-
ing-office on the morning after publication of the
paper. The proprietor of the Herald, on Watt’s
trial in the Supreme Court, declined to swear this
slip of paper was above the value of a pin. The
jury, perceiving that there was no solidity in the
charge, and that the prosecution appeared to have
been got up for a sinister purpose, pronounced a
verdict of acquittal.
“ Ecce iterum Crispinus. Watt was no sooner
acquitted than Mudie pounced upon him again.
In order to deprive Watt of his ticket a charge of
an immoral intimacy with a female of his own
class was preferred against him at the police-
office. This intimacy, if it had existed at all, had
ceased certainly six months before the charge was
ipgfituted. It would not have been brought for-
ward but for Watt’s acquittal a few days before.
It fell to the ground.
“The most reprehensible feature in the whole of
these proceedings was that at the post-office,
where only two or three magistrates usually at-
tended, nine magistrates (most of them prominent
in their opposition to Sir R. Bourke’s Act for de-
fining the duties of magistrates) daily assembled
and occupied the bench for ten successive days.
During their sitting they not only tried Watt,
but attempted to try and inculpate everybody
from the Governor and chief magistrate of police
down to the humblest officer in the service of
Government. An inquiry so conducted, in a
place where justice was presumed to be ad-
ministered, created quite a public ferment. Sir
R. Bourke bore with calm and dignified contempt
the language of disrespect and insult directed
against himself by Mudie' and his confederates.
In a letter I received from him at the time, he
thus temperately reviews the leading facts of the
case, and deals with the whole transaction in a
tone of mild and just censure
“ Parramatta, Wednesday Evening.
“My Dear Sir,—l read last night in the Australian an
account of Watt’s affair, about which so much has been
said or sung lately. The statement is not quite correct,
and takes a view of the case unfavourable to the Govern-
ment, which I think is not deserved.
“ Mr. Justice Burton [the judge who tried Watt for the
larceny of the piece of paper] did recommend that Watt’s
ticket should be withdrawn. I did not see in his repre-
sentation sufficient cause for so severe a measure ; but I
did see, and had reason to know from other sources of in-
formation, that Watt had assumed a position in society
inconsistent with his condition, and from which, to avoid
general scandal, it was necessary to remove him, though
without subjecting him to the severity of forced labour,
which would have been the consequence of cancelling his
ticket, besides other disadvantages affecting his hopes of
pardon. It should be remembered that I found Watt
E laced in Sydney, as have also been some other specials,
y the act of ray predecessor, and where I proposed to
leave them in the full enjoyment of that indulgence as
long as their quiet and inoffensive demeanour gave no
cause for abridging it. Watt’s conduct has not been so
guarded, and I have, in consequence, removed him to ttyat
place [Por-t Macquarie], where, since I assumed this
government, 1 have sent every educated convict as he
arrived, being clearly of opinion that Such persons should
not be permitted to remain in Sydney whilst undergoing
their sentences.
“ I give you this little history without any surprise at
the comments to which I refer. It is the fate of all mo-
derate persons who e'ndeavou’r to steer a middle course,
and to effect their purpose by prudence and mildness, to
give satisfaction to neither of those parties who are am-
bitious of being distinguished by extremes.
“ As to the conduct of the justices who usurped the
Sydney police bench for mere party purposes, it deserves
the extreme of reprobation. The matter now is how to
prevent the recurrence of proceeding which aimed a fatal
blow at the administration of justice.—Very truly yours,
“ it. Bourke.”
“Tljp part of Watt in this eventful drama was
brought to a termination by his accidental death
soon after arriving at Fort Macquarie, where he
was drowned in the act of crossing a swollen creek.
# “ Mudie, however, had not yet quite played out
his rdle. He might claim indulgence for being
somewhat incensed against me from having acted
as counsel for his men, and for Watt on his trial
in the Supreme Court, when Watt gave Mudie
the slip. He was ingenious and clever enough to
give me a ‘Roland for my Oliver.’ Here I
must claim the indulgence of the reader for
an intrusion on which Lord Byron truly writes
‘most men are eloquent, but few agreeable’—
the intrusion of self. About this time a pam-
phlet entitled ‘Humanitas,’ written by Watt,
appeared. It contained severe, and in some
parts unmerited, censure on some members of the
magistracy, and Mudie ascertained that an early
copy of this pamphlet had been sent to me, and
he circulated a rumour that I was either its author
or a contributor to it. In truth, I neither wrote
a line of the pamphlet nor contributed a penny to
defray the expense of its publication. On fre-
quent occasions I undertook to prosecute to con-
viction for perjury any person who would venture
to swear I had ever seen a sentence of it in manu-
script or a line of it in print until the whole was
. printed, stitched up, and issued in its published
form. This challenge was never accepted, but
libellers in recent publications have satisfied me
that they will not permit the calumny to perish.
“ The only recollection I have of ever having
spoken to Watt was on the occasion of his calling
to thank me for my defence of him at the trial.
“ These incidents, perhaps, would not now be
worthy of mention, were it not that they even-
tuated in an unfortunate public event. The office
of Chairman of Quarter Sessions, then an elective
office by the magistracy, was at hand. For some
time I had been the sole candidate, but Mudie
and his abettors, mainly on the ground of his
fabricated story, identifying with ‘ Humanitas,’
put up in opposition to me the Treasurer of the
colony, Mr. Riddell, who was a member of the
Executive Council, and not favourable to the
liberal policy of the Governor. Sir R. Bourke
apprised him that his tenure of a seat as a member
of the Executive Council and of the office of Trea-
surer was incompatible with that of Chairman of
Quarter Sessions, the duties of which would
oblige his absence from Sydney for several months
in the year. I am not sure from personal know-
ledge that Mr. Riddell took an active part in
promoting his own election. He permitted the
election, however, to proceed, which he gained by
a majority of one disputed vote, which, as Mr.
Flanagan states in his History, was ‘ secured in
Mr. Riddell’s favour by an irregularity on the
part of the Returning Officer of Windsor.’ The
magistrates voted not individually, but by benches
in the several districts. I should have much pre-
ferred to have copied the whole account of this
election from Mr. Flanagan’s recent ‘ History of
New South Wales,’ were it not that I think in
some parts he narrates it more unfavourably to
Mr. Riddell than the circumstances warrant. Sir
R. Bourke thought Mr. Riddell ought not to have
permitted himself to be put in nomination after
his intimation of the incompatibility of holding the
office of Chairman of Quarter Sessions conjointly
with his other offices. To mark the sense of his
displeasure, Sir R. Bourke suspended Mr. Riddell
from his office as member of the Executive
Council, without interfering with his office as
Treasurer, to which only a salary was attached.
Lord Gleneig, then Secretary for the Colonies,
did not confirm the suspension, but advised that
Mr. Riddell should make an apology to the
Governor, before the Executive Council, for having
permitted his name to be used as a candidate,
and directed that he should then resume his seat
in the Council. The Governor thereupon re-
signed office.
“Sir R. Bourke’s view of this position was
plainly expressed. He observed, in substance, in
his letters to the Colonial Secretary, ‘ That he had
been insulted in the face of the public, by a dis-
obedience of his command, by an officer of his
Government, and it was no satisfaction to him to
direct that officer to make an apology in the
presence of three gentlemen comprising the Exe-
cutive Council, sworn to secrecy as to what passed
there. Under these circumstances, considering
the relation of respect and confidence that should
subsist between the Governor of a colony and the
members of his Executive Council, Sir R. Bourke
deemed it his duty to press his resignation on the
government.’ ‘ln acceding to his desire to retire,’
writes Mr. Flanagan, ‘the Home Government
acknowledged in the most complimentary terms
the merits of Bourke, and expressed their deep
regret that he should have formed the determina-
tion to give up the Governorship.’ While the cor-
respondence was pending between the Governor
and Downing-street, Sir R. Bourke did not once
preside at the Board of the Executive Council.
He and Mr. Riddell never met there again.
On the few occasions on which Councils
were required, the senior officer in com-
mand of the troops presided. I should have
willingly suppressed the mention of these occur-
rences, but, as connected with the circumstances
under which Sir R. Bourke retired from his
government, to have done so would have been
to blot out too important a page in the history of
his time. In common with the whole colony, I
regretted that the career of so distinguished and
successful a Governor should have been cut short
liy this ‘untoward event.’ I made no complaint,
I had no right to make any, because Mr. Riddell
was my successful opponent at this election.
Whatever ground of complaint there was, lay
between the Governor and Mr. Riddell; between
Mr. Riddell and myself, none. He had, as far as
I was concerned, an undoubted right to oppose my
election. As Mr. Riddell is now no more, and
as I continued on terms of uninterrupted amicable
intercourse with him throughout our long common
career, I have endeavoured to state the circum-
stances of this transaction with as much modera-
tion as is consistent with truth. If Mr. Riddell
erred in the matter, his error did not go beyond a
want of firmness in resisting the importunity of
persons who cared little for him, and who sought
to make him ‘ a cat’s paw ’ for the purpose of in-
sulting the Governor and of promoting their own
selfish ends. It was never intended by him, or by
those who promoted his election, that he should
hold the office, as was shown by his resignation of
it on the very day on which he was chosen to hold
it. Although not possessed of talent for debate,
or the active business of public life, Mr. Riddell
was an honourable and estimable person, and as
Treasurer of the Colony he filled that post with
unimpeached integrity for nearly SO years.
“ Before his performances closed Mudie had yet
to go through a few exciting scenes of his way-
ward life. Soon after the trials in which he
played so prominent a part, he took his departure
for England, and arrived to be a witness before
the Transportation Committee in 1835, to whom
he described the Colony as a Pandemonium, taking
especial care not to mention to what extent he had
contributed to make it so. His fabulous state-
ments, however, did not deceive everyone upon
whom he attempted to palm them. A portion of
his evidence was ordered to be struck out by the
Committee, and other parts of it were refuted by
trustworthy testimony. The late Charles Buller
having good-humouredly reproved Sir R. Peel
(who had rebuked this witness in Committee) for
his non-attendance on the Committee after Mudie’s
examination, Sir Robert replied, that ‘ the witness
(Mudie) under examination when lie did attend
had told such improbable tales that he could place
no reliance on such evidence.’ Mudie came back
to the Colony, but finding himself shunned
by the respectable classes of the community,
after a short sojourn returned to England.
Previous to his leaving Sydney for the last time,
he had undergone a severe horsewhipping in the
principal street of Sydney from the son of the
aged Attorney-General (Mr. Kinchela), whose
physical infirmity of deafness Mudie had ridiculed
with a heartless buffoonery in his book. Mudie
brought an action for the assault. The jury
awarded him £5O damages, which, with the costs
were paid immediately by a subscription in Court.
This was the last act in which Mudie appeared in
the Colony. At its close the curtain fell upon his
career, and he performed no more. ”


*=r~ READ THIS! Two Pounds’ (£2) worth, of these preparations sent free to any part or the colony
Armstrong’s Citron Saline, for cooling and purifying the
blood An aperient effervescing salt. 2s;lSsdoz.
Armstrong’s Blood Purifier or Anti-Scorbutic-a valuable
remedy where the blood has become vitiated through
residence in hot clinmtes, with usual consequences ot
bad water, deficient vegetable diet. 2s; 18s doz.
Armstrong’s Compound Sarsaparilla with Dandelion, lodide
of Potash, &c., for all impurities of the blood. 2s;2osdoz.
Armstrong’s Eye Lotion for Blight and other inflammatory
' affections of the eyes. The proprietor has received
numerous testimonials for cures effected by this lotion
when all other means had failed. Is ;8s doz.
A i mstrong’s Sugar-coated Anti-bihous Pills An infallible
remedy in cases of indigestion and other complaints
arising from an inactive liver. Is; 8s doz.
Armstrong’s Diarrhoea Mixtures gives instant relief in this
troublesome complaint. 2s; 18s doz.
Armstrong’s Cough Elixir. An immediate cure for colds,
coughs, influenza, &c. 2s; 18s doz.
Armstrong’s Podophyllin Pills, for liver complaints, im-
purities of the blood, &c. Is; 8s doz.
Armstrong’s Phosphorous Pills, tor Nervous and General
Debility, &c. Is; 8s doz.
Armstrong’s Anodyne Liniment (or Pain Paint) for bruises,
sprains, rheumatic pains, &c. 2s; 18s doz.
Armstrong’s Cough Balsam, for chronic pulmonary affec-
tions and lung diseases. 2s; 18s doz.
Armstrong’s Golden Eye Ointment, for blight and all
diseases of the eyes. Is (id; 13s doz.
Armstrong’s celebrated Ointment for Piles. 2s;
Armstrong’s Iron and Quinine Tonic, for loss of appetite,
Nervousness, General Debility, Neuralgia, Ac. 2s.
Armstrong's Pepsine Bismuth and Nux Vomica, for
chronic indigestion. 3s 6d &ssCd ; 80s & 58s doz.
Armstrong’s Quinine Wine. A most reliable brain and
nerve tonic. 2s (id; 20s doz. ,
Armstrong’s Podophyllin Seidlitz Powders. A mild and
pleasant aperient. Is Gd; 15s doz.
Armstrong’s “ Arabian Ointment.” For healing all sores,
old wounds, burns, etc. (in pots). Is; Ss doz.
Armstrong’s Corn Paint and Solvent, for painlessly
removing corns, bunions, warts, &c. Is; 8s doz.
Armstrong’s Toothache Drops and Carbolic Nervine, for
immediate cure of toothache. Is; 8s doz.
Armstrong’s Rosin, Carbolic, Zinc, liluo, hite and Hod
Percipitate Ointments (in boxes). Cd ;5s doz.
Armstrong’s Dandruff Pomade, for eradicating scurf, dan-
druff &0., from the hair. Is ;8s doz.
Armstrong’s Arabian Hair Renewer, for restoring grey
hair to its natural colour. Is Cd ; 12s doz.
Armstrong’s Indelible Ink, for writing on linen, silk, and
muslin. Is; 8s per doz. . . ,
Armstrong’s Lime Juice and Glycerine. A valuable
preparation for the hair. Is & ‘2s ;8s & 18s do/.
Armstrong’s Transparent Cement (Cohesuh.ne) for china,
o-lass, wood, leather, &c. Gd &Is ; Os &Ss doz.
Armstrong’s Carbolic Tooth Powder antiseptic. Is; Ss doz.
Armstrong’s Disinfectant, CarboHsed Powder (m tins),
for drains, etc. 9d &IsOd ; Gs Gd & Pis doz.
Armstrong’s Sore Back Ointment for horses, ‘is; At ISs doz.
Armstrong’s Carbolic Dressing, for cuts ami wounds
among stock. Is &isGd ; 8s & 15s doz.
Armstrong’s Blistering Ointment - the best remedy tor
splints, curbs, etc. Is Gd ; 13s doz.
Armstrong’s Gold Paint, Copper, Silver and Green Bronze*,
for decorating your home ornaments, statuary, too. ■-
all ready mixed. Gd ;8s doz.
INVENTED, MANUFACTURED and SOLD ONLY by
Tresses, Belts, Supports, Elastic Stockings, SEN D EOR SPEGI U
CHEMICALS, PATENT MEDICINES and DRUGGISTS’ SUNDRIES, SEND XUR
C. ARMSTRONG, George Street NORTH (Near Circular Quay), SYDNEY.
Wholesale
Cost.
The
r(iest Stork in S<> !»(}•■
BRICE LIST (POSTED
FREE).
t
ţ
dry air refrigerator
_ _
Beware of the many so-called Dry Air Refrigerators advertised by unscrupulous Manufacturers and Dealers mtendmg
rZJthe public and trade upon our reputation. This is the original and celebrated Dry Am Refngera or, made
famous by its successful competition at the leading Exhibitions in the United States for the past fe.x hears, known as
tlie Baldwin Dry Air Refrigerator,
WHITE MOUNTAIN FREEZERS, ICE IV! I L S< CANS, MIXERS,
SQUEEZERS, Szc., «&=<=.
t
3iv£cZ-.es,n. Eros. Sz Eig'g',
512 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
pitlh COLONIAL MUTUAL LIFE ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED.
BRANCHES THROUGHOUT THE COLONIES AND THE UNITED KINGDOM.
. i ~ _ _ . ' _ ivf«rtifieci Tontine and Mortuary Diviclencl Systems.
Policies issued under the Ordinary, Mocimea j.
A. BOWMAN’S
LONDON MADE
Porpoise Hide Hoots
Are Reduced from 30s. to 21s.
249 PITT ST., SYDNEY, Near Tattersall's.
Porpoise Hide Wears Twice as Long
as any otlier Leather.
They are noted all oyer London,
Birmingham and Liverpool.
London Fashions,
AND
Fresh Goods Every Fortnight.
Trade Supplied Wholesale at a Great Advantage.
acknowledged
THE BEST
IN THE MARKET
ť
HISKV
. SOLD
EVERYWHERE
sQEES?
FROM
Neuralgia,
Nervousness,
Headaches,
Biliousness,
Wasting Disease, Debility, Ac., &0.,
When yon can be Cured
BY USING
LARMER’S
CELEBRATED
TONIC.
Price, 2s. 6d and 55.; Post, Is
IBdKtrft
CAINS and Co., Chemists,
78 KINO- ST., SYDNEY.
Far Sale hj all Chemists.
MLW.aco.
i
wmm
sun
Mill
!!nn;
Mil
/■'•S ■
inn
«in
K
Ai
11 ■'
i
H c
fill
II
ill-
&•«
WHO
55
B
■ a
*IS«
IJ
WwWi
in :i
l'v.
m
■
(SH
i' i-
IVI
H. C. ARMSTRONG,
r. [Miavin.'teeiitieal Chemist, Wholesale Druggist,
IMPORTER <Sc MANUF ACTURER.
Whoiemh BtpA GEOUGE STEEET NOETH, near Circular Quay, SYDNEY ;
AND AT
Wu.canma. Hilverton, Mount Browne and Broken Him*
t
minium
uiiiiiiiin
c
X
<N
r
PIUB
CP.
C n
>
2D
pinniliil
•winnm
■llllllllm
€
y
3
*
2
mm
TH E
y
'//Suk
=440. --
>■
ţ
ť
CLARENCE^S 1
SYDNEY.
AGENTS
in New South Wales
- TRIUMPH ■ ■'
op The (jQ_P_P S piRIT 6^P
BOOK of NATURE and Illustrated
Matrimonial Guide.
A full and explicit ex-
planation of the struc-
ture and uses of the organs of life and generation in man
and woman, intended especially for the married, or those
intending to marry, and who conscientiously and honestly
desire to inform themselves upon the intent and nature
of marriage and its duties, to which is added A COMPLETE
MEDICAL TREATISE upon all diseases of the generative
organs, whether resulting from infection or sexual excesses
and abuse, with much other valuable and highly important
information, illustrated with more than fifty engravings,
by M. Lafayette Byrn, M.D. Price 3s. (id., post 4s.
'The Fruits of Philosophy or Private Companion for
Married People, post Is. 2d. Mrs. Besant’s Law of Popula-
tion, Is., post Is. 2d. Wonderful Song Book, extra large,
Is. (id. Decameron Boccaccio, 2s. Aristotle, complete,
3s. 6d., post 4s. Maria Monk, Is. 6d., post Is. 9d. New
complete Fortune Teller, 2s.
“The Matron's Manual of Midwifery,” the book every
married woman needs ; price 75., posted 7s. 6d.
“ Nigger Stump Speeches and Comic Pattern,” price 6rt.
“The Male Generative Organs,” their use and abuse
with many illustrations and coloured plates; price 75.,
post 7s. 6d. , _ ~ ,
The arts of Boxing, Swimming and Gymnastics made
easy, enabling any one to become an expert Boxer and
Athlete, illustrated with fifty engravings, price Is., post
free. Agent for London Reynolds, Referee, Dispatch,
Dublin Freeman, Glasgow Mail. Advanced, and Republican
literature on sale. ___
Sir Robert 13car,
Radical Boor Stores,
10W PARK STREET, SYDNEY.
\V^
3®?
4,
%
%
o
❖
«*”
%
%
%
<*•
<v
Jr
<o
<v
EVERY .
DESCRIPTION
or
HAIR WORK DONE
W 24. x
'RO?AL’ARCAOk\
MELBOURNE
X
PRIVATE
ROOM S
fDR\ LADIES


Business Announcements.
■gJDWIN G. fiOEBTZ,
Stock and Share Broker,
iFIZET-A-ZETCXA-Ij AQ-B JSTT,
BUJiAHfL
Member-of t!ie Brisbane Stock Exchange.
SMOKE NOTHING BUT
PIPES.
9
9
PIPES.
THE BEST I'N THE WORLD.
Wholesale Agents :
JULIUS GOLDSCHMIDT & 00.
231 Clarence Street.
First Prize—MELBOURNE EXHIBITION.
j7"Ta dowici & sons,
Manufacturers and Importers of
Superior Oak-Taimed Leather Belting,
And every description of
Leather goods for Machine and Engineering Purposes-
Hydraulic
Leathers.
\ONEJ
A
Tangye Pump
Leathers.
All goods bearing the above Trade Mark are warranted to
give satisfaction, or may be returned at our expense.
Office and Factory: 162 Clarence-St., Sydney,
Between King and Market Streets.
TO ADVERTISERS.
We undertake the advertising of large business
houses —filing every paper advertised in, checking
appearances, and watching the interests of our
clients. We can save you money, lime and
gnvietv. Write for our pamphlet “ How to
Advertise, and Why.” F. T. WIMBLE & CO.,
Newspaper Advertising Bureau, Basement A.J.S.
Bank, 869,371 & 373 George-st., Sydney. Estimates
given for any number of papers by return mail.
yyDNEY TAKES THE LEAD.
The Sydney Ladies’ and Gentlemen’s
Hair dress sing Palace
AND
TOILETTE REQUISITES,
32 SIKTG- STREET.
(Directly opposite the Arcade),
NOW OPEN.
The Public Verdict—A long-felt want filled,
an Establishment that Sydney can be proud of.
No Expense has been spared in fitting up this
Establishment for the convenience and comfort of
its patrons.
A large staff of the very best Gentlemen Work-
men are employed in the Ladies’ and Gentlemen’s
Hairdressing Rooms, and all work is guaranteed.
A SELECT STOCK OF
Qentlemen’s Mercery, Perfumery.
Ladies’ and Gentlemen’s Toilet Requisites.
Cigars, Cigarettes, Tobacco, &c-,
Sold at the Lowest Cash Prices.
LAUNDRY AGENCY, &c., &c.
Sydney and Melbourne Daily and Weekly Papers
kept on File.
All Ladies and Gentlemen are invited to visit
wad inspect this establishment, and be convinced
'hat it is not equalled in the Southern Hemisphere.
HOURS :
Prom 8.30 a.m. to 7 p.m. SATURDAYS, 9 p.m.
—THE-
Fresh Food & Ice Go.,
LIMITED,
HARBOUR STREET,
SYDNEY,
Are evidently determined to go ahead. They are
now supplying Customers who take a Quart of
Milk and Over per Day at
THREEPENCE PER QUART!
This appears very wonderful , but it is
quite true.
{3T Weekly Accounts.
The AUSTRALIAN MERCANTILE LOAN and
GAURANTEE COMPANY, Limited.
Head Office—
Sydney: turner of Market & "STork Streets.
Melbourne Branch: 283 Oollins-street East.
Brisbane Branch: Corner Edward and Elizabeth Streets.
Newcastle Branch: 37 Hunter Street.
The Company grant immediate advances upon Deeds ®f
Land, Bills of Lading, Menchandise, Storage and Bond
Certificates, and all classes of mercantile andother approved
securities, for fixed terms or repayable by instalments.
A. MILLER, Acting-Manager.
Hotels.
T ONG’S IMPERIAL HOTEL,
TOOWOOMBA, QUEENSLAND.
Acknowledged the Best Hotel on the Darling
Downs. First-class Accommodation.
Private Suites First Class Sample Booms.
Conveyance Meets Every Train.
JOHN LONG - - Late of New Zealand.
Royal hotel.
Esplanade,
ST. HILDA, VICTORIA,
Facing Beach, close to Pier and Baths. Ten
minutes from Station.
H. MOONEY - - - - Proprietor.
LIVERY LETTING STABLES ATTACHED.
Telephone 682.
First-class Accommodation for Visitors
THE GEOEGE HOTEL
(opposite Bailway Station, near Baths),
St. Kilda, Victoria.
First-class Family & Commercial Hotel.
tST For particulars, apply to
JS 9 . WIMPOLB,
PROPRIETOR.
Palls B ridge Family Hotel,
Falls Bridge, Melbourne.
This magnificent Hotel” containing 50 Double
and Single Rooms, is splendidly furnished and
perfectly ventilated.
Eot and Cold Plunge and Shower Baths.
Electric Belli. Telephone 1217. Billiards , dec.
Terms Strictly Moderate.
J. H. DURRANT "" Manager,
Late of the Smith Australian Club Hotel, Adolnido.
Medical
V
wtk r>
wm i
s *
<£
vT3»
;.' W
'4U&
L I
>cr
Sf
*\\'
Manly Purity and Beauty
No tongue nor pen can do justice to the esteem
!n which the Cuticuka Remedies are held by the
thousands upon thousands whose lives have been
made happy by the cure of agonizing, humiliating,
itching, scaly and pimply diseases of the skin,
scalp, and blood, with loss of hair.
Cuticuka, the great Skin Cure, and Cuticuka
Soap, an exquisite Skin Beautiflcr, prepared from
it, externally, and Cuticuka Resolvent, the new
Blood Purifier, internally, cure every form of skin
and blood disease, from pimples to scrofula.
Having been a sufferer for two years and a half
from a disease caused by a bruise on the leg, and
having been cured by the Cuticuka Remedies
when all other methods and remedies failed, I
deem it my duty to recommend them. I visited
Hot Springs to no avail, and tried several doctors
without success, and at last our principal druggist,
Mr. John P. Finlay (to whom I shall ever feel
grateful), spoke to me about Cuticuka, and I con-
sented to give them a trial, with the result that X
am perfectly cured. There is now no sore about
me. I think I can show the largest surface where
my sufferings sprang from of any one in the State.
ALEXANDER BEACH, Greenville, Miss.
Sold everywhere. Price, Cuticuka, 50c. ; Soap,
25c.; Resolvent, $1. Prepared by the Potter
Drug and Chemical Co., Boston, Mass.
Send for ‘‘Howto Cure Skin Diseases,” M
pages, 50 illustrations, and 100 testimonials.
P1H1
PLES, blackheads, red, rough, chapped and
oily skin prevented by Cutioura Soap.
If I had known of the Coticuka Remedies
twenty-eight years ago, it would have saved mo
$200.00 (two hundred dollars) and an immense
amount of suffering. My disease (Psoriasis) com-
menced on my head in a spot not larger than a cent.
It spread rapidly all over my body and got under
my nails. The scales would drop off of me all the
time, and my suffering was endless and without
relief. One thousand dollars would not tempt ma
to have this disease over again. lam a poor man,
but feel rich to be relieved of what some of tha
doctors said was leprosy, some ringworm, pso-
riasis, etc. I took . . . and . . . Sarsaparillas over
one year and a half, but no cure. I went to two or
three doctors, and no cure. I cannot praise tha
Cuticuka Remedies too much. They have mada
my skin as clear and free from scales as a baby’s.
All I used of them was three boxes of Coticuka,
and three bottles of Coticuka Resolvent, and
two cakes of Cuticuka Soap. If you had been
here and said you would have cured me for $200.00,
you would have had the money. I looked like the
picture in your book of Psoriasis (picture number
two, “ How to Cure Skin Diseases ”), but now lam
as clear as any person ever was. Through force ol
habit I rub my hands over my arms and legs to
scratch once in a while, but to no purpose. I am
all well. I scratched twenty-eight years, and it
got to be a kind of second nature to me. I thank
you a thousand times. Any one who reads thla
may write to me and I will answer it.
DENNIS DOWNING, Waterbary, Vt.
HANDS
Soft, white,*and free from chaps and
redness, by using Cdticura Soap.
Address: B. TOWNS & CO., SYDNEY,
~ " Business Announcements.
• •
HIGHLY NUTRITJVh
MA r RE OBTAINED IN LABELLED TINS Oft PACKETS THEtnuIiHIHLETHf COLONY.
ALLAN A. MARSHALL & CO.,
Engineers, Coppersmiths, Brass and Bell Founders,
Finishers, Plumbers, Ship & General Smiths,
Gasfitters, Art & Mbdistal Mstal Wor
ROLLER SKATES (any make) with BRASS or WOODEN WHEELS.
Verity’s Gas Fires, iJrviug
T on Aetfon Valve Closets, Fire Hydrants, Hose and afi appliances
iron ul 9 ?&*-*■ ■■■- ILimm _
Bon Accord Works,
Place, Sydney.
m
?MBRO»TION^v/
f(L vy v®
in -\v. y\ ..— u :f *•• / -%i
ml
vA f*C A 1 I
SOLO
I\EVERV,WHERE'i
i
■—THE—
federal reversionary investment
AND
FINANCIAL COMPANY, LIMITED.
( JncoTpovdtcd Unde?' CotiipctHics A.ct t 16 • #
CAPITAL .. •• £200,000.
Sydney ~ :501 !MTT STREET
AGENCIES in London and throughout AustraDA.
A. immediate advances granted. Bills discounted daily.
Communications from the country promptly atteiM|d to.
The following are the nates of interest allowed on FUced
Denosits3 years, 10 per cent. ;12 months, 9 p«* oeot, )
6 months, 8 per cent.; 8 months, T per cent. By order
of the' A . w. Miller. Mana»r
Long Jim’s Appetite.
A Back-country Hair-raiser.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
For a fellow with so big an appetite, Long Jim
was about the thinnest man I ever knew. As was
generally remarked, if you turned him out for
twelve months on burnt feed he’d never do justice
to it, and at the very best you could only call him
“poor store.” Jim had got so used to being
twitted about his “awful twist ” that he was quite
callous and would unconcernedly peg away after
everybody else was finished. He and I were once
out together after some outsiders located a long
way from home, and we ran short of “tucker.”
Xever did I have such a mate in all my life—it
was one constant growl from morning to night,
and as for smoking, I never got a chance, for he
up all my tobacco and his own too on the
second day out.
On the evening of the third day I was pretty
hard set myself, and kept a sharp look-out for
anything eatable we might drop across. As for
Jim he was perfectly furious All of a sudden he
gripped my arm and pointed to a patch of scrub ;
sure enough there was the smoke of a niggers’
camp, and the next minute Jim was tearing down
like a demon on top of them. Of course the
darkies cleared out, hot foot, and my noble Jim
was off his horse in no time, searching round for
what he could devour. On one of the fires there
was something grilling on the coals, and Jim
made for that with his tongue out. What it was
he didn’t stop to enquire, it smelt rather nice
to him and so he sat down and began wolf-
ing it without ever asking me to have any.
However, it struck me there was something wrong
about it —I had encountered such an odour before
—so I let Jim finish his feed and then asked him
what it was he was enjoying so.
“ Well, I don’t exactly know, it’s mighty good,
seems like a lot of tails or something,’'’ he replied.
“ Looks to me more like a piccaninny’s fingers,” I
said.
Jim turned as white as a ghost and muttered,
“By Heaven you’re right,” and crawled away
into the bush. By-and-bye he came back looking
thinner than ever, and begged me not to say a
word about it to the boys at the station. Of course
I swore hard and fast I wouldn’t, and, of course,
somehow or other it all leaked out, and Jim got
frightfully chaffed about his cannibal feast, and
had a down on me as big as a mountain accord-
ingly.
Jim’s life became quite a burden to him, and
whenever he went near the hut where the married
man lived the woman used to call out like mad
to her children and hustle them inside the hut for
fear Jim would take a fancy to them.
This fun went on for a long time, and poor Jim
got so lonely that the only mate he had on the
station was the cook. By and bye they got very
thick, indeed, and Jim seemed to care for the
company of no one else. .
About this time old Jerry, the oldest man in
the blacks’ camp, died, and two days afterwards
we had pea-soup for dinner, and it so happened
that all hands were at home.
“ By Jingo,” said Charley, the well-sinker to
the cook, “ you’ve boiled mighty hard peas or
else you might have strained the teeth out of that
old sheep’s head after you’d stewed it down.”
“ What’s up with you, Jim,” said another, “ off
your feed?”
“ What’s this ?” said one fellow, “I’m blessed
if this is a sheep’s jaw !”
“ Hand it here,” said Jim, and it was passed to
him.
“ Yes, I know it,” he said, “Here’s the very
gap where I knocked two of his front teeth out
one day for calling me a cowheaded whitefellow.”
“ What the blazes do you mean ? ’ cried every-
body.
“ Why, it’s old Jerry’s head, that’s somehow
got in the soup; well, you are a cannibal lot! ”
Even after peace was restored, and all the
wounds bound up, we did not find out for certain
whether Jimmy had humbugged us or not ; but
he never got chaffed any more about being a
cannibal.
DELCOMYN.


Business Announcements.
LOONG SHAN TEA HOUSE
NOW OPEN.
Quong Tart & Co.’s
EXTENSIVE NEW PREMISES
(Nearly opposite Theatre Royal).
EIRST-CLASS GRILLS,
Q
U
o
N
G
T
A
R
T
As well as all kinds of Refreshments, may
be obtained from 7.30 a.m. to 11.30 p.m.
CUP OF DELICIOUS TEA.
ICED DRINKS OF ALL KINDS, &c.
The rooms are splendidly furnished and
fitted up. In addition to the large and
well - appointed Refreshment Rooms,
gentlemen will find on the Second Floor
Commodious and Comfortable Smoking
and Conversation Rooms, furnished with
Chess, Draughts, &c., &c.
TO THE LADIES.
On the First Floor will be found Nice
for Ladies, convenient for
Writing,' Reading, &c., also Retiring
Rooms and Lavatory, with both hot and
cold water laid on. Inspection Invited.
Finest Teas imported—Packets Jib. and
upwards supplied. Orders promptly at-
tended to.
Q
U
O
N
G
T
A
R
T
C
O
M
P
A
N
Y
137 KING STREET, SYDNEY,
ŧ
MANUfACTUAERS
A IWfouters or
HATS CAPS I
438CE0RCE ST
3VDNEY
0/opostfe Lasse [Cere
• &
m
A*
%
Branch :
678 GEORGE STREET,
BRICKFIELD HILL,
(Next to Craig and Aitken.)
Citizens’ Life Assurance Company,
LIMITED.
Capital ... ... £200,000.
Head Office ;
21 Castlereagh St, Sydney,
With Branches and Agencies throughout the Colonies.
Wew Business;
1887 There were issued 19,557 Policies.
1888 „ „ „ 34,084 „
1889 up to 28th October 48,833 „
These figures show the wonderful progress of the
Company and the high esteem placed upon its
liberal dealings by the public.
CLAIMS PAID
Immediately on Proof of Death
JAMES P. OARVAN, \
WM. ALEX. SMITH, f
Managing Director.
Secretary.
The most Delicious Sauce in the World.
YORKSHIRE RELISH
BS
m
CE
ton
111
oggns
6,000,000 Settles
sold annually.
Enriches Hot
Joints, Stews,
&c.
Delicious to Chops,
Steaks,Fish,&c.
■With souj? it is
charming.
Agrees with the
most delicate
person.
Hakes cold meat
a luxury.
Makes the plain*
cst viands pal-
atable.
The daintiest
dishes more
delicious.
A great addition
to Cheese.
Epicures pro-
nounce it the
host Sauce.
Pears no com-
petition. A mar-
vel of cheapness
and' enterprise.
Suitable to the
invalid’s cup of
Broth.
Bowaro of colour-
able imitations.
H.R.11; the Prince of
Wales has recently ex.
pressed himself as highly
pleased with it.
SOM) EVERYWHERE.
Wholesale Agents TILLOCK & Co., Kent
and Liverpool Streets, Sydney, N.S.W.
RICHMOND FAMILY HOTEL,
PORTLAND, VICTORIA.
John Shelton - Proprietor.
n
□
mono
on
A
RTS
MBS
'
0
SCfe
ri ! -
C 3
uls.
L.
L'j
ROBERTS & 0 0.,
—W HOLESALE—
Ironmongers* Importers* Iron and Machinery Merchants*
HAY A IST 13 ENGINE STREETS SYDNEY,
Head Office: 85 Gracecliurclx Street, London, E.C.
IMPORTERS OF
Railway Si Bridge Contractors'
Plumbers’
Squatters’
Requirements
IN
Great Variety.
r IMPORTERS OF
Engineers’ and Blacksmiths’
Couchtuilders’
k Mining
AGENTS FOR:
Korting’s Gas Engines— The best and cheapest yet made. Automatic self-governing, thus saving cost of gas.
Braddock’s Water and Gas Meters and Gas Lamps. Reading Iron Works Universal (Split) Pulley Wheels.
Howe’s Platform and Counter Weighing Machines and Weighbridges.
aoe
Guinness’ Extra Stout,
FIRST QUALITY.
Bass Pale Ale,
FIRST QUALITY,
o
Sole Purveyors to the
Colonial & Indian Exhibition,
London,
(By Special Appointment).
Wholesale Agents: Balchin, Johnston & Co., Sydney.
M. B. FOSTER & SONS, LONDON,
“ BUGLE” BBAUD ALE -A.HSTID STOUT.
)(
PUBLIC NOTICE.
It having come to our knowledge that ALE and STOUT of very inferior quality, in bottles with
skillfully forged labels have lately been palmed off on the public :
We desire to warn our friends of the fact, and to state that all corks as well as capsules of the
bottles shipped by Messrs. M. B. FOSTER & SONS to this colony bear their name and address.
Any information respecting Bottled Beer purporting to be “Foster’s Bugle Brand ’’ offered
for sale without these corks and capsules will be esteemed by the undersigned, who have instruc-
tions to bring to justice the perpetrators of the frauds.
A Liberal Reward will be given for information leading to conviction of the offenders.
)(
BA.LCHIRT, JOHNSTON & CO., Sydney,
Agents for Messrs. M. B. Foster & Sons.
Ask for Kupper’s Elberfeld Lager Beer
(Specially Brewed for Australia). Absolutely Free from Sediment.
" THE —-
Wolseley Sheep-Shearing 1 Machine.
PASTOR ALT.STS are notified that, to avoid disappointment,
no time should be lost in Booking Orders for next Season.
Agents: J. H. GEDDES & CO,,
19 PHILLIP STREET, SYDNEY.
FederatedL Squatters
—AND—
Farmers’ Co-Operative Association of Australasia, Limited,
Q.TJ-A/ST, SYDTTEY.
WOOL and PRODUCE BROKESsT STOCK and STATION AGENTS.
Advances Made and Deposits Deceived at Current Rates. Correspondence Invited.
I” U L, vJ
"They fit perfectly, and are
far superior to all the other
l Corsets I have tried.”
| (Signed) Marie Rose.
PATENT
Diagonal Seam Corset
Will not Split in the Seams
nor Tear in the Fabric.
Exquisite Model, Perfect
Comfort, Guaranteed Wear.
Beware of worthless imita-
tions. Every genuine Y& N
\reet stamped "Y&N Patent
Diagonal Seam Corset, No. 116,” in oval.
THREE GOLD MEDALS!
tw Sold by all Drapkrs and Ladibs’ OurnrnißS.
GB. MODINI, Gunmakor, informs his Customers
■ and the Public in general that he has the largest
assortment of Firearms in the colony. Qualities and prices
to defy competition. Agent for the following celebrated
gunmakersJ. Pdrdey (t Sons, Cii. Boswell, John Rioby
and Co., Joseph Lano & Sons, Ch. Osborne & Co., Thomas
Bland & Son. A large assortment of various other makers
always on hand, viz., W. W. Greener, Scott, Webley,
Hollis & Sons, Riley and Casiimore. All goods will be
faithfully guaranteed at 602 George-stroot, Sydney.
Price list on application.
Medical.
ARE YOU NERVOUS?
IF SO,
DON’T MISS THIS!
What everyone says is bound to be true, and young
and old, rich and poor, physicians who recommend, and
patients who try
The Krupp Galvanic Chain Belt,
All agree in praising that most scientific of Electro
Therapeutical Appliances. For Rheumatism it is un-
rivalled. Lumbago at once succumbs to its power. The
Nervous are strengthened and the Debilitated restored to
perfect health and vigour. In short, the appliance is an
unfailing cure for all Nervous, Sexual, or Chronic Diseases,
and is GUARANTEED to ABSOLUTELY CURE, com-
pletely and lastingly, the following complaints
Dyspepsia, Neuralgia , Pains in the Back and Chest,
Lumbago, Catarrh, Rheumatism, Dumb Ague,
Nervous Debility, Paralysis, Kidney Complaint,
Spinal Disease, Female Weakness, Diseases of the
Diver, Impotence, Seminal Weakness, Diabetes,
Sciatica, Atrophy, Gout, Indigestion, Asthma, Piles,
Epilepsy Spermatorrhoea, Specks before the Eyes,
Excessive Heart Palpitation, Defective Memory.
An Unfailing Cure For Varicocele.
It is a PORTABLE BODY BATTERY, and contains
special appliances for both sexes ; therefore, why waste
your money and health by procuring and taking USELESS
DRUGS ? Electricity, when properly applied, is acknow-
ledged by all leading and unprejudiced physicians to be
the only safe and radical cure for Nervous and Sexual
Diseases, and the thousands of testimonials received by
the Krupp Belt Co. from leading personages throughout
Australasia prove the unquest enable curative properties
of Electricity as applied by theapplianoe above referred to.
Our confidence in this appliance is so complete, that
we send the Belt out on trial, and guarantee it
to give perfect satisfaction. For full particulars as to
terms, etc., send for our large illustrated treatise, free,
in which these Belts are fully illustrated, the action of
electricity on the nervous system explained, and a lot of
useful information on nervous and sexual diseases given.
This treatise also contains facsimile of testimonials received
from some of our clients who have tried our Belts. The
originals of these testimonials produced on application.
The prices of the Krupp Galvanic Chain Belt and
Suspensory are from £l.
Sole Inventor . ... Carl Krupp.
Business Manager . . A. W. Courtney.
Address all communications to the
Krupp Galvanic Chain Belt Co.,
Box 647, G.P.0., Sydney, N.S.W.
Remember—The K.G. Chain Belt cures without medicine,
is easy to wear, is sent on approval, and the first cost is
the only cost.
INDISPENSABLE J\OR RADIES
AND ALL PERSONS
With a Delicate Skin!
MOUSON’S
COCOA BUTTER SOAP
Cocoa Butter Soap is a real skin-beautiller, and a balm to
young and old alike.
MOUSON & CO., PERFUMERS & TOILET SOAP MANUFACTURERS,
FRANK FORT-ON-TUB-MAINE.
LONDON! 32&33IIAIN8ELL-ST., E.C. PARIS: 29 RUE RADZIERILB
Full guarantee for perfect purity is offered by the
sole Manufacturers, Mouson & Co.
JULIUS GOLDSCHMIDT & CO.,
•231 CLARENCE-ST., SYDNEY,
SOLE AGENTS FOR AUSTRALASIA.
A Wonderful Remedy-
MARSHALL’S TONIC NERVINE
Is now Universally Acknowledged to be a wonderful
Remedy for Nervous and General Debility, Nervous
Prostration, Torpidity of the Liver, Indigestion, Palpit-
ation of the Heart, Nervous Headache, Diabetes, Lassitude,
Impaired Nutrition, Neuralgia, Hypochondria, Loss of
Energy, and Appetite, Female Complaints, Dizziness
Noises in the Head and Ears, Loss of Vital Power, Alcholio
Craving, Premature Decline, Impoverished Blood, Im-
paired Sight and Memory, Consumption in its early stages,
Effects of Youthful Indiscretions, Mania, and all diseased
conditions of the system preceding from Deficiency of
Nerve Force. A few doses speedily afford relief, whi.st a
course effects a permanent cure. Innumerable instances
emphatically testify to the truth of this statement.
Thousands of testimonials invite the afflicted to test it for
themselves.
Each Drop is Worth a Drop of Gold.
There is no remedy like Marshall’s Tonic Nervine for
Female Complaints. Every female should have a
bottle ready at hand, because for Irregularities, etc.,
it surpasses all others. As the nervous system is the
main-spring of human vigor and healthful regularity,
so where this complicated organism is deranged, Marshall’s
Tonic Nervine acts with a precision and curative effect
like the day spring dispersing the shades of night. The
whole organic system which depends upon the nerves for
its streams of electric force is recuperated and renewed
with th s Great Vitaliser. The muscles rebound with the
energy of youth, appetite and healthful condition follow.
The skin becomes bright and clear, and the winter of
disease is made summer by the glorious sun of health.
Thousands of restored patients everywhere gladly support
the forcible truth of these assertions, and one trial will
render certainly doubly sure.
Marshall's Tonic Nervine
Is sold by all Chemists and Storekeepers, and is
ONLY PREPARED BY
MARSHALL BROTHERS.
410, George Street, Sydney.
N.B.—ln consequence of spurious imitations of “Tonic
Nervine,” which are calculated to deceive the public,
Marshall Bros, have to request that purchasers see that
the Label on every bottle bears their signature, thus—
without which no bottle is genuine. Ask for Marshall’s
Tonic Nervine and see that you get it. Trade mark:
“Tonic Nervine.”
THE PRESCRIPTION
X>. O. Xji.
WHAT IS IT?
THOMAS MCREERY.
MEDICAL HERBALIST,
83 Oxford Street, i doors above Riley Street.
Private Diseases of Both Sexes a Speciality.
Consultations Gratis. Charges very Moderate
A Trial Solicited.
A SPEEDY CURE GUARANTEED.


Medical.
KBVOUS MEN.
fmmm
5?
A NEVER FAILING- Clf&E FOft AtL.
Diseases of the nervous system.
Complete with Susppnsory Appliances from £l. 0. 0 and
Upwards. This famous Electric Magnetic (Belt will cure
NERVOUS DEBILITY, Seminal Debility, Impotence,
and all weakness caused by indiscretion. Pains in the
Back, Lumbago, Giddiness, Rheumatism, Kidney and
Bladder complaints, and in fact any disease of the Nervous
System. The currents are steady and constantly felt by
the wearer. It has great improvements over all other
belts, we are willing to furnish those belts on 30 days
trial, and accept payment after they have'proved them-
selves what we represent them to be. Those belts are
made for the specific purpose of producing a continuous,
mild, soothing current of electricity through all the weak-
ened parts, restoring them to health and vigorous strength,
even the worst case permanently cured in three months.
It is more convenient to wear than any other Belt.
A Book illustrated, containing full information and testi-
monials from prominent people throughout Australia,
and informing persons how they may obtain these belts
without paying for them until they have proved them com-
petent to cure any disease of the Nervous System, will be
forwarded to any address on receipt of a 2d stamp for
postage.
Address VOLTAIC BELT COMPANY
Box 916, G. P. 0., Sydney,
Dr. James D. Llewellyn,
L.8.C.P., M.E.C.S., L.S.A., LOND.,
Registered by the Medical Boards of Victoria, New South
Wales and England,
SPECIALIST
—IN—
Ghronic, Nervous and Genitourinary Diseases,
may be consulted daily at
-3 25 LONSDALE SlßEEt-
fbetween Swanston & Elizabeth StsJ,
MELBOURNE.
Confidence Absolute. Curable Cases Guaranteed.
pif” All Personal Consultations die RRtste; but by
Letter, a-Pee of £1 is charged, which is inclusive
of medicines. Patients living at a distance and
unable to attend personally can be treated by post,
and have their remedies forwarded pet mail Or
express to any part of Australia, carefully packed
and concealed from observation.
A Practical Manual on Special Diseases*
expressly written for the guidance of suffetets froin
“Nervous Debility” and Private Diseases—price,
3s. fid. (post paid.) Copies maybe obtained from
the Publishers, “The Otto Publishing C 0.,” Nd. 4
A’Beckett-street, Melbourne, and all Booksellers.
Tricopteroffis
FOR
THE HAIR
** 1801 **
I s/.
An elegant (dress-
i ittg. exquisitely per
> fumed. - removes all
impurities from the
Scalp; prevents baldness and gray hair, and
fcauses'the hair lo grow Thick, Soft and
Beautiful. Infallible for curing .eruptions
'of the skin, diseases of the glands, muscles
and integuments, and relieving cuts, burns,'
bruises, sprains, &c’
Barry’s Pearl Cream
Imparts to the darkest sklh a clear, natural
white, tinged with the faintest rose-blush.
It speedily femovee wrinkles, freckles, sun !
burn anti tan, and mantles the faded cheek
With youthful bloom and b^iutyJ
( Barry’s Hair Dye.
Put up in two forms, with and without
a preparation Without the preparation;
f radually colors-the hair any shade desired,
roqa.a light brown to a black With the
preparation, instantly colors the hair a na-
tural jet black the momentit is applied.
C«m£ios-None Qf these preparations gen-
uine without the tradp mark of Bakclat
$ Cb , New York,, affixed to each bottle.
THIS valuable Lotion is guaranteed to cure SWELLING
ZL and SANDY BLIGHT, INFLAMED EYES and LIDS,
DIMNESS OF_ SIGHT, &o. It will be found very bene-
loial and cooling to those who have weak eyes, or whose
work compels them to strain their eyes. Highlj
recommended by the leading Oculists.
Manufactured only by the Proprietor,
A. ROSE,
Dispensing and Manufacturing Chemist,
531 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Wholesale by the Proprietor and all Wholesale Houses,
Established 1858. By Post Ss. 6d.
Manufacturer of Dr. SOUTITAN'S GOUT and
RHEUMATIC PILLS
Medical.
A WONDERFUL MEDICINE.
Beecham’s Pills
C Ma
&
PATENT
PILLS.
ft
sg
re
Are universally admitted
to be worth a Guinea
a Box for bi lions
and nervous disorders,
such as wind and pain in
the stomach, sick head-
ache, giddiness, fulness
and swelling after meals,
dizziness, and drowsiness,
cold chills, flushings of
heat, loss of appetite,
shortness of breath, cos-
tiveness, scurvy, blotches
on the skin, disturbed
sleep, frightful dreams,
and all nervous and trem-
bling sensations, &c. The
first dose will give relief
in twenty minutes. Every
sufferer is earnestly invited to try one box of these
Pills, and they will he acknowledged to be
Worth a Guinea a Box.
For females of all ages these Pills are invaluable,
as a few doses of them carry off all humors, and
bring about all that is required. No female should
be without them. There is no medicine to be found
equal to BEEOHAM’S PILLS for removing any
obstruction or irregularity of the system. If taken ac-
cording to the directions given with each box they will
soon restore females of all ages to sound and robust
health. This has been proved by thousands who have
tried them, and found the benefits which are ensured by
their use.
For a weak stomach, impaired digestion and all disorders
Of the liver, they aCt like “ MAGIC,” and a few doses will
be found to work wonders upon the most important
organs in the human machine. They strengthen the
whole muscular system, restore the-long-lost complexion,
bring back the keen edge of appetite, and arouse into ac-
tion with the ROSEBUD of health the whole physical
energy of the human frame. These are “FACTS ” testified
continually by members of all classes of society ; and
one of the best guarantees to the nervous and debilitated
is, Beecham’s Pills have the largest sale of any patent
medicine in the world.
Beecham’s Magic Cough Pills.
As a remedy for Goughs in general, Asthma, Bronchial
Affections, Hoarseness, Shortness of Breath, Tightness
and Oppression of the Chest, Wheeling, &c M these Pills
stand tfiirivalled. They are the best ever offered to the
public and will speedily remove that sense of oppression
and difficulty of breathing which nightly deprive the
patient of rest. Let any person give Bbbcdam’s Cough
Pints it trial and the most violent Cough will in a
short time be removed.
Prepared only and sold wholesale and retail by the pro-
prietor, Thomas Beecham, Chemist, St. Helens, Lancashire,
England, in boxes at Is. lid. and 2s. 9d. each. —Sold by
all Druggists and Patent Medicine Dealers everywhere.
N.&— tuli directions are giveh With each box.
CONSULT
Moore & H ogg
THE EMINENT
SPECIALISTS,
6ft fill Diseases df the Genito urinary Organs
Nervous Diseases* find Private Complaints,
1 CORBETTS BtUtDINGS, , cornit of George
and Elizabeth Streets, Brisbane.
CONSULTATIONS FREE, PERSONALLY OR BY LEttER.
Box 88 G.P.0.) Book sent on receipt of 2d. stamp.
Prof. R. T. SELBY
Is considered to be the most Successful Practi-
tioner in the Australian colonies. All sufferers
should read the Doctor’s most unique work on
Nervous, Private and other Diseases. The
Advice on MarrlAgE is Worth its Weight in gold.
Send your full address, and we will send (post
free) Oiie dopy. Write to Prof. R. T. SELBY,
Cleveland Street, Surry Hill, SYDNEY.
Hotels.
WESXEItKr HOTEL,
Warrnambool, Victoria.
THIS old-established and well-knoWtl Family
and Commercial Hotel combines all the
requirements of a First-Class Hotel with home
comforts.
It is in full view of the sea and within a short
distance of the picturesque scenery of the Hopkin’s
River, which affords the finest Rod and Fly Fishing
in the colony.
Arrangements made for the Hire of Rowing and
Fishing Boats and Fishing Tackle. Bait, etc.,
supplied. £3T Good Shooting in the immediate
neighbourhood.
It is also within Two Minutes’ walk of the Hot
and Cold Sea Water Baths, which are unsur-
passed in the colonies.
livery and letting Stables.
Booking Office for Cobb & Co. ’s Coaches. Thos.
Cook & Sons’ Hotel Coupons taken.
&EOR&E W. CLARE - Proprietor,
E R V O U S DEBILITY.
Consult FREE, PERSONALLY, OV HY POST HERB RASS-
MUSSEN, the celebrated DANISH HERBALIST and
EXPERT SPECIALIST. A medical book sent free on
receipt of a 4d., stamped self-addressed envelope, contain
ing valuable hints. Try Herr Bass-Mussen’s Pills, which
are a guaranteed cure. Price, £1 2s. (id. per course. Sent
unobserved. Address—
Herr Rass-Mussen, “Roselund Villa,”
Opposite Rifle Butts,
MOORE PARK ROAD, SYDNEY.
P. C. NICHOLLS & Co.,
WHOLESALE
Confectioners k Pastrycooks,
City Buildings;
736 George Street, 736
HAYMAEKET.
Steam Works :
617. 619, 621, 539, 54-1 HARRIS STREET.
Wedding Cakes, Si c., Made to Order.
Business Announcements.
The bank of new Zealand.
Sydney Branches: „
64 PITT STREET, and 638 GEORGE STREET.
Paid-up Capital £1,125,000
The Bank has Agents in all the principal cities
throughout the United States of America and
Canada, and can offer special facilities for dealing
in Bullion, Bills of Exchange, Commercial and
Travellers’ Letters of Credit.
Drafts issued and Bills collected on most favour-
able terms, at rates which can be ascertained on
application. T ,
N. F. GIBLIN, Manager.
Read! Read ! Head I
“THE BULLETIN’S”
History of Botany Bay,
By Arthur Gayll.
Profusely Illustrated by The Bulletin’s well-
known Artists,
L. HOPKINS and PHIL MAY.
Price - One Shilling
Per post, Is. 3d.
Wholesale Agents :
Victoria: A. Benjamin, 321 Little Collins-st., Melbourne
Melbourne: Gordon & Gotoh.
Brisbane: J. H. Thompson, Bookseller, George-street.
Adelaide: Neville & Co.
Tasmanian: Fitzgerald Bros., George-street, Launceston.
EPPS’S
GRATEFUL—COMFORTING
COCO A.
MUSICAL.
"PATENT SCALE INDICATOR for Pupils Learning the
L PJano- p rice! 3s . 6c i. And IMPROVED VAMPING
SYSTEM, without a knowledge of Music, ss. 6d., posted
to the country from Ingham’s, Sydney Arcade.
Country Agents wanted—Stationers.
J. SITTERLIN,
FROM PARIS,
Ladies’ Hairdresser. Wigmaker, & Perfumer,
25 SYDNEY ARCADE, SYDNEY,
HISTOMtCAL AND FANCY HAIRDRESSING A
SPECIALTY.
Manufacturer of All Kinds of Theatrical
and Street Wigs.
Ainnionlated Quinine,
The most efficient Hair Lotion, to prevent prema-
ture baldness,
Sitterlin’s Vegetable Hair-dye,
The only Hair-dye in the colonies to restore Light
Hair to its natural colour. All shades.
Success Gr'ULU'V a. n tee cl.
MANUFACTURING HATTERS
GEORGE STREET
SYDNEY
IMPORTERS OF ALL THE
NEWEST SHAPES.
And at ALBERT STREET, BRISBANE.
AUCH'S
m
%
m
THE BEST
IN THE WORLD
'■jk&'A
■
■SiV,;
i
mUCH’s
JL '.«&
AKINC'I
3S
H
SV.
Bbsr
swwasg
MANUFACTURED 6V '
JjMCS CNAHNON SHarbovrS* V,
Sold. In/ all &tae*Xjj & S/oxeAetfiero jA
V'-
Business Announcements.
IT|IHE THREE GREAT LIGHTS/
The Needles Patent Gas-making Machine';
The Harvey Patent Safety Kerosene Lapp;
AND THE
New Era Portable Gas Lamp.
The Harvey Lajup has been adopted by the
Railway Commissioners for lighting the Sydney
trams. We were awarded the Highest Order of
Merit and Special Mention by experts at the
late Melbourne Exhibition for our lighting
mediums. Over GOO'O Harvey Lamps are in use
in this colony, and for all lighting purposes are
giving universal satisfaction. These Lamps can
be seen on one of the North Shore ferry-boats,
and are suitable for all classes of vessels. The
Inventor offers £2OO to anyone producing as good
a Kerosene Burner.
Patentees for Australasia:
XX. T, SMITH & GO.,
491 Kent Street South, SVDJiEY; ,
14 Arcade, Adelaide, S.A.; Argent Street, Broken Hill;
Parkside Iron Works, Melbourne.
IST A BLESSING IN EVERY FAMILY.
HOLLOWAY’S PILLS AND OINTMENT.
There is not a country in the civilised world where
the healing virtues of thes grand medicines have not betai
recognised by thousands of sufferers. In all the ordinary
ailments of humanity their beneficent action is at once
recognised. Fullest directions are supplied for their use
in every disease. IF YOU SUFFER, TRY THEM. Manu-
factured only at 76 New Oxford-st., London. Pur-
chasers should look to the Label on the Boxes and P,ota.
If the address is not 523 Oxford-street, London, they avs
spurious.
—THE—
SYDNEY SOAP & CANDLE CO.,
Limited,
MANUFACTURERS OF
Stearine and Paraffin Gandies,
HOT A COLD WATER SOAP
Of every Description
Glycerine, Lubricating, Machine, Cloth and
Neatsfoot Oils,
The only Genuine and Original—
Magic Cleanser Cold Water Soap*
To be had at all Grocers and Storekeepers.
Upfold’s Tree Pest Exterminator,
Its Effects are Marvellous!
16 What is Home without a Picture?”
Xi- BEENASGON-I,
R. Smith)
Elite Carver, Gilder, and Picture Frame Maker,
159 Clarence Street Only, SYDNEY
(near Central Coffee Palace).
Plush Work a Speciality. Mounts Cut to any Design.
H. HILDER,
BOOT UPPER MANUFACTURER,
IMPORTER OP .
ENGLISH AND FOREIGN LEATHER,
Elastic Web, Grindery, Ac.,
Wholesale and Retail Leather Merchant
539 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
- —THE—
Art Furnishing Warehouss.
BEARD, WATSON A CO.,
361 George Street, SYDNEY,
Direct attention to their Magnificent Stogk t>f
Carpets, Floorcloths, Linoleums, /
And other Floor Coverings, in the
NEW EST DESIGNS »l AUHSFHJ < OEOI KINGS.
Art Decorations, Upholstery Work and
Window Draping, a Speciality
All Orders executed by a Staff of Experienced
Workmen, and Special Attention given to the carry-
ing out of Customers’ wishes with punctuality and
promptitude.
WALTER ZHZOIPIE,
General Merchant & Commission Agent,
199 SUSSEX STREET, SYDNEY.
C CONSIGNMENTS of all Produce, Live Stock, etc.,
j received and realised in the best markets. Aeconnt
Sales and Proceeds remitted the day after sale. Orders
executed for all Goods from Sydney at Lowest Wholesale
Speciality. —Pure-hred and Pedigree s Stock of all de-
scriptions Bought or Sold on Commission. All communi-
cations referring to Pure-bred Poultry and Eggs for Setting
to be addressed asmisual to WALTER HOPE, Bonnyrigg
Prize Poultry Farm, Liverpool, N.S.W.
SPECIAL NOTICE.—The Sydney Bulletin.
Tasmanian Edition Publishers, FITZ-
GERALD BROS. Subscription (payable strictly
in advance), Six Shillings and Sixpence per quay
' ter, or One Pound per annum.
The Bulletin will be on Sale every Friday at
the Office, George Street, Launceston, or from the
Runners in the street.
Dr. westcott’s amenorrhce^
PILLS for Ladies, when taken for a few
days before, quickly correct all irregularities
from whatever cause arising ; 2s. 9d. and 4s. (id.,
by post 3s. and ss. W. H.'SOUL and GO., PiO
Pitt-street, Sydney, Agents.


SHEVILL & CO.,
Corner Queen Street and Flinders Lane,
MELBOURNE.
MERCANTILE AUCTIONEERS,
House, Land, and Estate Agents,
&
m
II
43
J
Hr
J
JtJ
mm J£mri_
Advances made against shipments of Merchandise
and Colonial Produce.
Daily Sales held at their Commodious
New Rooms.
OUTDOOR
Furniture & Land Sales Conducted,
Branch
Offices
32 Chapel St., Prahran.
2 Albert St., Windsor.
Branch
Offices
P. R. LUUBKIN,
IMPORTER OE
x SPIRITS, x BEER S, x ETC.,
George and Gipps Streets, Sydney.
SPECIALITIES:
John Jameson’s Dublin Whisky (5 to 10 years old); W. Jameson’s, Dunville’s Roe’s and Wise's (old Cork) Whiskies.
Hennessy’s, Martell’s and Sazerac’s Brandies (5, 10, IB and 21 years old).
The Choicest ami Oldest SCOTCH WHISKIES (in wood), Imported and Bottled by P.li.L.
The Best Port and Sherry Wines and Champagnes. fST AH'Brands of Colonial Wines. The leading brands
of Bottled Ale and Stout, arriving by monthly steamers.
Prince of Wales Hotel, 778 & 780 George Street,
Wholesale anil Single Bottle l)epai(tments, 28$ anti 284 tjeoxigc-st., Sy tinny.
SEND FOR A PRICE LIST.
'FIRST-CLASS LADIES' REFRESHMENT ROOM & LAVATORY,
GIPPS STREET (Opposite A. Hordern & Sons.)
•) x (
Produce Stores, Gipps St., and Darlingliiirst Road.
HEAD OFFICE: GIPPS STREET (Next Prince of Wales Hotel).
t
ţ
iKTIES-'W
FURNITURE
WAREHOUSES,
York Street, Wynyard Square, Sydney,
Now supply the General Public as well as the Trade.
■> i
10,000 Bedsteads,
Prom lOb. 6d. to £35.
■fill'.
iZi i
% r z\m
m
Abe
WM
P.P'M
S«!TO
8»>
• n
m
1
! df
OT3»
mm
«
«i
i
BI7LKE & €
General Auctioneers and 11 tatb Agents,
895 t'oUlas sdrcet,. Mcllmuruc. ami 14 rinipcj
Street, Sonlli VaTra.
E*rescription.s
Are to he found in the “Light and Info,’
for the” Speedy Cure of Nervous Debility and
Kindred Diseases, &c. A copy of this book null
be sent Free, sealed, for Six Penny Stamps.
Address —
S. WARD & GO.. SYDNEY PHARMACY,
7(1 HUNTER.STREET, SYDNEY.
Cr
ť
*llll4' uo|SM!|MMj*
l£Z.
- ■ 3'
r -
“
w ■. L.»
-* .
Know, tv.* rimi|*H.
GO.
MINING & HYDRAULIC ENGINEERS
AND
GENERAL MACHINERY MERCHANTS,
&c.,
&c.,
&c.
187
And
& 189 Clarence Street,
SYDNEY, KT.S.W.
SAM FRANCISCO, CALIFORNIA.
Roek Breakers.
Vi cstiugfooiisc
TAMGYJBS. LIMITED,
Hay St., Hay market, Sydney,
ENGINES,
2 to 50 ii.r.
BOILERS,
1 to 35 H.l*.
STEM PUMPS
For all purposes.
CiimiL PUMPS,
2'''to 40 "'discharge.
HAND PUMPS.
Saw Benches.
X«SI. I fc33L©l3.
mm
'IIJ
&c,, &0.
4i
(rthdouf.f
ofyu*
,uvj
• * ■
Hauling Engines,
Batter y Engi ties.
Saw-mill Engines,
FliUl-MliL mm
! EHGmES
Electric Lighting,
Vertical Boilers.
Multitubuiar Boilers,
roKMsi! kovijkus.
&C M &0.
We invite al" those requiring Machinery of any kind for any purpose, large or small, to write ror particulars and prices. From the extent of our stock we are generally able to give immediate delivery.
Visitors, whether buyers or n it, are always welcome-to inspect the magnificent display in our new and extensive Shoivroomg,
12 0, 131, 133 & 135 H-A-Y STREET, HAYMARKBT, S 7ST 30 3W 3E3 "ST.
