

AITKEN’S ALE.
LIFE BUOY BRAND.
the best in the market.
“ DICKENS’ ” WHISKY.
USED BY THE LATE CHARLES DICKENS,
AND SUPPLIED TO THE PRINCIPAL CHIBS IN SYDNEY.
HAH.RISON & ATTWOOD, 251 George-st., Sydney, Sole Agents for New South Wales.
hd
3v£erfeet Street, ©“STMTE^T-
U N RIVALLED ACCOMMODATION.
tr
s
COCOA.
NEW YORK LIFE INSURANCE CO.
ESTABLISHED 184=5.
tt is a MUTUAL COMPANY, ami NO LIABILITY IS INCURRED by its policy-holders. There are no shareholders, and, consequently,
no interest adverse to those of the policy-holders.
STATEMENT Foil YEAR ENDING 31st DECEMBER, 1889.
Income for year 1889 ... •••
Amount Now Business during 1889
Accumulated Funds 31st December, 1889...
Surplus by the New York State Standard •••
'Total Amount Paid to Living Members during last 45 years, in Endowments
Dividends, Ac.
paid to Representatives of Deceased Members ...
Ahiount of Interest iTcfeited on Investments
£(>,000,672 1 3
31,094,463 0 0
21,615,967 5 5
3,209,876 10 10
16,317,633 0 0
10,296,348 0 0
10,878,708 0 0
Incontestable Non-Forfeiting Free Tontine Policies
,1 x. . .i. A..
rni VON FORFEITING FREE TONTINE POLICY of this Company combines in one form the greatest number of advantages attainable in
* SMyItIaYROM ! •» INCONTESTABLE
j«wpt^^se^oHi^im.-^ Branch in sterling ; and all disputed claims (in case any should arise)
in Australia are to be decided by Australian Courts.
Chief Offices, Department of Australasia : ... BOND STREET CHAMBERS, SYDNEY.
O-02a.oara.l j&'Eei.sxta.g’esi*.
Bo not insure nhtil you have seen full partisan of tie Hew York Life's policies, with guaranteed dividends
N b.-men of character and ENEkov wanted as AGENTS.
Paris House
restauHaVt francais.
TABLE D'HOTE PAEISIENNE, 2s. 6d.
(Wine Included).
Pill V ATK ROOMS, 49.
ZW Being in close proximity to the leading places
of amusement, families intending to spend the
evening at the theatre cannot do better than to
order their dinner here.
Private Rooms for Dinners & Suppers.
Suppers after the Theatre if ordered.
BANQUET BOOMS for PARTIES up to FORTY.
Service a la carte Daily from 8 a.m. till 11 p.m.
OPEN o*4 SUNDAYS.
Dinners from Ss. 6d. upwards.
Extra Dinners at a Few Minutes’ Notice.
ď
POINTS or SUPERIORITY.
1;—-Steel drag bar, in plage of cast iron, relieves
all strain on main frame.
2. Side draught obviated by draught rod being
adjustable oil drag bar.
8. All eon) plicated gear replaced by one bevel
wheel, one pinion.
4. —Knife can be drawn by removal of one colter.
5. Machine will start cm dead centre without back-
ing horses in heaviest crops.
SL
at
* ■
Prizes Won* 1890 !■
d
j Prizes Won*, 1890
HOWAB® STEEL OBIBETT MO WEB.
howa:b;d"S OT-ex ijakes.
Howard’s Anglo American RakeB<
FIT!!? BTM.EIST, SITBWBIT
1
1
est
The Bulletin
Yol. li—No, 563. j
[Saturday, November 29, 1890.


£is~
ftsii
mi 1 .
1
ii
a
»
Customs Returns
American Leaf.
•Birson r.iid Sons consumed in 1888, 52,5021b5.
more, and m 1889 (over 44 tons) 98,939 lbs. more
American Leaf than all the rest of New South
W ales put together,
HIXSON S 10BACC0S having the largest
sale of any in Australia are
SSIfA
a
o
3?
X
w:
o
*v
SIR ROCE
Dr. RIDGE’S
FOOD
FOE INFANTS AND INVALIDS
“This is the MOST PERFECT FOOD
we have examined. Chas. H. Piesse,
M.R.C.S., F.C.S., &c. Wm. Johnstone
Ph.D., F.C.S., &c., Publio Analysts.
PB. RIDGES BOYAL FOOD MILLS,
LONDON, ENGLAND.
LAM PL
d
r-
ď
V
“ You heme given me life and living
Colonel Maplesok writes as follows Madame Koze
recognises in your preparation the precious Saline that
she found so invaluable when she visited New Orleans
during the last yellow fever epidemic, in order by her
concerts; to raise funds for the benefit of the stricken
ones, who could not afford the neoessary comforts, and
which the crowded hospitals were unable to supply to
thousands of applicants. Madame Koze was advised by
Or. 80-vnes, of London, to take yoirr Saline with her and
we took several dozen- bottles. I really believe it saved
our Lirasi.’*'
Acts as a Gentle- but Effectual Restorative ; Allaying all
tendency to Feverishness; invigorating the Digestion
Acting on the Lives,, Bowels and Kidneys imperceptibly
but surely ; tranquiMeing the Nervous System, inducin''
wholesome appetite and recuperating the brain power. °
Its utility as a remedy jn fevers, and as a cooling drink-
in diseases of children, such as scarlet fever, measles, &o.
has been testified to by the leading members of the
profession. May be had of all Chemists in glass-stoppered
bottles, at 2s. 6d., 4s. Gd. and 11s. each.
CAUTION.—Take care that when you ask for "‘Lam-
plough’s Pyretic Saline” you do not have one of the
numerous spurious imitations foisted upon you.
ELLIOTT BROS., Wholesale Agents,
SYDNEY.
GOLDEN SHANTY.
Australian stories and sketches ig prose and verse
Bound in handsome Cloth Binding, 3s, 6d., post paid..
LAMPLOUCrH’S PYEETIC SALINE
Price One Shilling'.
—BY—
“BULLETIN” WRITERS.
ALL AGENTS.
NEVER
TRAVEL WITHOUT IT.
IN EVERT HOUSE.
đ
EFFECTUALLY
AIL NOXIOUS INSECTS,
FLEAES 6EEtL.CS. MOSQUITOES.
iCOCKFtCACHES AND IS
AT THE SAME TIME QUITE.
HARMLESS TO BI ROS DOGS.
FOWLSOROTHER
ANIMALS
d
d
Ejlt
FELTON GRIMWADE.UC
-MELBOURNE— J
WANTED IN EVERY HOUSE.
Ask for KRUSE’S INSECTICIDE, and Beware
of the Numerous Imitations.
COMPLETE OUTFITS
—FOR —
DRILLING ARTESIAN WELLS
Supplied on most reasonable terms.
ALSO-
DRIVE PIPE OR CASING
ANY REQUIRED SIZE.
American Expert Driller sent with Plants. Contracts taken for Drilling-.
For Prices and Particulars, apply to
William Fleming,
32 & 24 Clarence Street, Sydney (Corner Margaret-Street).
y ■ i
SPECIAL NOTICE.—The Sydney Bulletin.
Tasmanian Edition Publishers, FITZ-
GERALD BROS. Subscription (payable strictly
in advance), Six Shillings and Sixpence per quar-
ter, or One Pound per annum.
The Bulletin will be on Sale every Friday at
the Office, George Street, Launceston, or from the
Runners in the street.
CHEAP ARTESIAN WELLS
Sunk at a quarter of the usual cost by the combined
Hydraulic and Pole-Tool Processes.
A SIX-INCH WELL, 529 ft. deep, has been sunk and
cased in eight hours, and 100 ft. in forty minutes, by
the Hydraulic Process. A 1000 ft. Plant, with Derrick,
Steam-engine, and Boiler, for £3OO. Can be run by any
intelligent man. Lighter Plants from £lOO up. We pub-
lish a Treatise on Well-Sinking, with Illustrations, which
we will send you prepaid for Is. THE AMERICAN
WELL WORKS, Box 799, 0.P.0., Sydney.
MASON BROTHERS,
LIMITED.
GENERAL MERCHANTS & SHIPPING AGENTS,
268 to 277 KENT STREET, SYDNEY.
Have always in stock for sale to the trade and whole-
sale buyers only,
A
TM
ROVAL
CCiNQURCn
nAsks.,
• * A
OkP
SC€IWWH!SKY
A<L*4VJt?OO4
u .-
Ironmongery, and
GENERAL HARDWARE
Glass, i'hinu and
EARTHENWARE.
WINES, BEERS A SPIRITS,
AND GENERAL
BULK MERCHANDISE.
Sole Agents for
LUCIEN FOUCAULD & CO.’S
Old Brandies.
J. T. GAYEN’S,
Schnapps and Geneva.
Ist Prize Sydney International Ex.
A. MELVIN and CO.’S
Champagne Pale Ales,
MACHEN’S
"Pelican” Stout.
"‘The Royal Edinburgh Castle ” old Scotch Whiskies.
“ A Q-olden Shanty,”
PRICE-ONE SHILLING.
NOW ACKNOWLEDGED
TH E BEST
IN THE MARKET
W HISKY
t
M.W.4.C2
SOLD
EVERYWHERE
Sole Agents: JAMES MOIR&CO., 58 Margaret-st„ Sydney
JJERVE or PHYSICAL FORCE
WHEN LOST,
QUICKLY REGAINED
—BY—
Consulting R. J. POULTON, Chemist,
77 Bourkb Street, MELBOURNE,
Who, after intense study and deep research, has
lately discovered a New, Extraordinary, Quick,
Certain and Inexpensive Cure for Diseases of the
Brain and Deranged Functions of the Nervous
System. Consult personally or by letter.
CMlfi®Tlf U?
Offices
'MSf
'i'
Troedfl 6 C?
Mjlpura Victoria.
IVTri PQHPMe . , Chaffey Irrigation Offices, Swanston Street.
R EN M AR K South Australia. ,
Adela I DE Cavendish Chambers, Grenfell Street.
England J. E. Mathew Vi ncen\t,( Chief Commissioner)
Cornwall Buildings, 35 Queen Victoria St.
LONDON e. c.
NOW READY. —To be had from all News-Agents and Booksellers.
“.A. GOLDE3ST
Australian Sketches in Prose and Verse,
By ‘’BULLETIN” Writers.
Size, Demy Octavo—with Handsome Coloured Illustrated Cover.
Price - ONE SHILLING; per Post, Is. 3d.


Medical.
DhSPEER
29 YORK STREET, WYNYARD SQUARE, SYDNEY,
P.O. Box 920. This eminent specialist is a graduated
physician of Harwood University, U.S., registered by the
Governments of N.S.W. and N.Z., and has devoted 16
years to the special study of CHRONIC, NERVOUS, SKIN
and SPECIAL diseases of MEN and WOMEN. All apply
ing to him will receive his honest opinion of their com-
plaints. No experimenting ;no mercury used. A positive
cure guaranteed or forfeit ,£2OO. His vast experience
tells him that where there is no organic disease, and
nothing but an inorganic trouble, or, in other words, a
conglomeration of symptoms producing a certain result,
there is no reason why it cannot be removed with the
proper remedies: therefore he guarantees. He claims to
be the most skilful and successful physician in N.S.W. in
his particular speciality, viz., the CHRONICand SPECIAL
DISEASES of MEN and WOMEN. Examination and
advice free to all. Charges moderate. Office Hours—lo
a.m. to 12 a.m.; 2 to 4 and 7 to 8 pm.
KTervons JZSe;l3illti3r.
Consult Dr. Speer in all cases of NERVOUSNESS through
indiscretion, for his many years of practice with this
dreadful disease enables him to remove all traces of it and
to return the victims to full VIGOUR, HEALTH and
MANHOOD.
N.B.—TWENTY SHILLINGS is sufficient to send for
remedies necessary for the cure of NERVOUS DEBILITY.
DR. SPEER will forward, post free, the following
celebrated pills
1. AMERICAN “ VITAL ” PILLS, for nervous debility,
lost vitality, sexual weakness, errors, &c., 55., or 21s. for
five boxes,
2. AMERICAN “PRIVATE” PILLS, for discharges,
contagious sores and blood diseases, 55., or 21s. for five
boxes.
3. “FEMALE” PILLS for irregularities and obstruc-
tions from whatever cause, 10s. and 20s.
cS &
d
t#
SUFFERING FROM
Any man who in his youth has trifled away Ids vigour
<f body, mind, and manhood, should consult PRO-
FESSOR CARE STINKWAY, the Eminent Specialist,
in diseases of the Geiuto-Urinnry Organs, who is still
treating with (ho greatest skill and success all Private,
Neivous, and Chronic Diseases.
Professor STINE WAY’S great success, which has
become so firmly established throughout Australasia,
is based upon the facts: - 1st. That every case treated,
even in its most remote effects, is specially studied,
thus starting aright. 2nd. The Medicines and Electric
Appliances used are exactly adapted to tuit the case,
thus promptly producing results without overdosing
or injury.
I SEEK CASES WHERE ALL ELSE HAS FAILED.
Young and middle-aged men and others, who
Sifter from Nervous and Physical Debility,
Exhausted Vita iiy, Premature De line, i c., can
recover the same degree of health, strength,
and energy experienced In former years, by
consulting (in / ersen or by I. iter, which is free).
Professor CARL STINEWAY, who has restored
thousands of sufferers to vigorous manhood
after all o'her treatment had failed. It makes
no difference what you have taken, or who has
failed to cure you. Cases that I accept for treat-
ment aro quickly and perm alien, ly cured,
DO ANY OF THE FOLLOWING SYMPTOMS
OR CLASS OP SYMPTOMS MEET YOUR
DISEASED CONDITION Are you a sufferer
from bad health in any of its many forms, consequent
on a lingering Nervous, Chronic, or Functional
Disease ? Do yon feel nervous, debilitated, fretful,
timid, and lack the pow cof will and action? Are
you subject to loss of memory; have spells of faint-
ing ; fullness of blood n the head ; feel listless,
moping, unfit for business or pleasure, and subject to
fits of melancholy ? Arc your kidneys, stomach,
urinary organs, liver, or blood in a disordered con-
dition ? Do yon suffer from Rheumatism, Neuralgia,
or other aches and pains? Are yon timid, nervous,
and forgetful, with your mind continually dwelling
on the subject? Have you lost confidence in yourself,
and energy for business pursuits? Are you subject
to restless nights, broken sleep, dreams, palpitation of
the heart, bashfnincss, confusion of ideas, aversion
to society, dizziness in the head, dimness of sight,
pimples on the face and back, and other desponding
symptoms? If you are afflicted, why further neglect
your health or future happiness, when by a single
consultation (which costs nothing) you can he placed
©n the way to health strength, and vigour?
VAKICOCELE easily and
quickly cured by may only
Genuine Kleclric Appliance,
by Royal betters Patent.
Persons living at a distance who desire
treatment without delay can, by forward-
ing a full description of their case and
<£1, receive Medicines by return of post.
Do not despair, even though ait others have faded
in your case. / will cure you. My vast experience
enables me to guarantee a positive cure in all cases
undertaken. CONSULTATIONS FREE, Medicines
sent secure from observation to any part of
Australasia.
“From Bondage to Freedom,” my latest
and entirely new work on Brain and
Nerve Exhaustion, Private, Nervous, and
Chronic Diseases, should be read by every
man ; nearly one hundred pages. By post,
two stamps.
A written guarantee given in all cases un-
dertaken, and no promises made that age, in-
tegrity, and long experience do not justify.
My HYGIO ELECTRIC APPLIANCES (by
Royal Letters patent) are the only genuine
Bells and Trusses in Australia.
Address —
Professor CARL STINEWAY,
21 ELIZABETH STREET,
MELBOURNE, Victoria.
MENTION THIS PAPER.
Something NTow.
Y/Dl l! Name math printed on Forty (40) Ueatilifui
■ F.mb ssed VISITING CARDS, comprising Floral
I i'li’ *' ,rl Idl'd, kv. No two alike. AM,
' 1 [Mi SIIII.MNO in stamps, postage paid. Agon s
‘tilted. Samples free. Address
Amfral < iml mid Novelty I «.,
II Hunter Street, SYDNEY.
Medical.
COLEmane»soks
Eucalypte. OIL'S.
I
Victory Ointments
THE TREE OF LIFE.
m
9 "UL Ml ca. S 3. i-t os s.
The Great American Athlete,
CURED of INFLUENZA by using COLEMANE & SONS
EUCALYPTE EXTRACT.
WON’T BE BEtEIVEB.
If 3 on want the best Medicine the world has ever pro-
duced, try Golem axe & Sons’ Ewcalvite Extract —there
are no ten medicines equal to it. it is one of Nature’s
greatest gifts to mankind. It is the only known cure for
Asthma, Consumption, Bronchitis, and all affections of
the Chest and Lungs. For Palpitation of the Heart,
Gravel and Kidney complaints it has no equal. Fevers of
all kinds, Coughs, Colds, Rheumatism, etc., are banished
by its use. Awarded Medals and Diplomas Adelaide
Sydney and Melbourne, beating all competitors. Children
should have Eucalypte Honey or Eucalypte Lozenges.
Adults will find sugar-coated Eucalypte Pills pearls’ of
great price, jgf" For external use try Cole.mane and
Sons Special 01. Sole Manufactory, Cootamundra
d
TANSY PILLS are 'better than
Steel, Pennyroyal, or Ergot. Cures
obstructions from ■whatever cause.
Never fails. No Pills or
like them. Particulars free.
W. PARKER. P.O, Box 100, Melbourne.
PRICE : ONE SHILLING,
n Handsome Cloth Binding, 2s Gd, post paid l
Medical.
Booli of IKTature.
m
v, ;
mmm.
.
BOOk of IXT BSufTSLI^G,
BOOK OF NATURE and Illustrated Mariage
Guide. —A full and explicit explanation of the
structure and uses of the organs of life and generation in
man and woman, intended especially for the married,
or those intending to marry, and who conscientiously
and honestly desire to inform themselves upon the intent
and nature of conjugal pleasures and duties, to which is
added A COMPLETE MEDICAL TREATISE upon all
diseases of the generative organs, whether resulting from
infection or abuse, with much other valuable and highly
important information, illustrated with more than fifty-
engravings, fully depicting the mysterious process of
gestation, from the time of conception to the period of
delivery-. No such complete panorama of the mysteries
of human production has ever before been given to the
world, by D. Lafayette M. Byrn, M.D., price 3/6, post
4/-. The art of Boxing, Swimming, and Gymnastics made
easy, enabling anyone to become an expert boxer and
athlete, price 1/-. Plain Home Talk about the Human
System, new edition, 200 illustrations, by Dr. Foote post
free 7/0. The Fruits of Philosophy or Private Companion
for Young Married People, 1/-, post 1/2. Mrs. Besant’s
Law of Population, 1/-, post 1/2. Aristotle, complete, 3/0,
post 4/-. Maria Monk, 1/6, post 1/9. Marriage as it was,
as it is, and as it should be, by Annie Besant, 1/-, by
post 1/2. Wonderful Song Book, extra large, 1/6. How
to Mesmerise, Thought Reading, Mesmeric Entertain-
ments, &c., price 1/6.
“ Every Man his own Schoolmaster, or How to
Educate One’s Self, illustrated ; price 1/6.
Modern Etiquette, Parties, Courtship, Love, Dress,
Visiting Introductions, Weddings, &0., 1/0.
“ The Silent Friend,” by Dr. Lamartine, 1/6.
The Secret of Beauty Revealed, and Guide to Femalf
Loveliness ; price Is.
“ Nigger Stump Speeches and Comic Pattern,” 6d.
The Male Generative Organs, their use and abuse, in
health and disease, from infancy to old age, with the
treatment of all their derangements, for every- man’s own
private use ; illustrated by numerous engravings and
colored plates, by Dr. F. Hollick, M.D., new revised j
Australian edition, superior cloth binding, gilt, prices/,-
post free. R. BEAR, Central Book Depot, 16 Park
Street, SYDNEY.
1
Slilii'iJEi
■ <
tri
_
m/A^
#1
6S
CLARENCE S*
SYDNEY.
AGENTS
in New South Wales.
T R \ UMPH
ofThe Good Spirit overbad.
Used in hospitals throughout the world in preference to the
best French Brandy. TRY IT.
Important to KTervous Snffersrs.
d
Dr. PERRY,
M.R.C.S., L.S.A., &c.,
Registered by the Medical Board of N.S. VV. ; Late
House Surgeon to the Great Northern Hospital, London.
Specialist fertile Treatment of Diseases
OK THE
Reproductive Organs and Nervous Complaints.
WHY I ADVERTISE.
I advertise because I consider it necessary that people
suffering from Nervous, Sexual and Chronic Complaints,
should be able to ascertain which
Ol M-UIIAI llllii) I’lMt ITITOYEUS
make these Diseases a speciality, particularly as, under
the present law, any person can call himself Doctor or
Professor, whether tic entitled to do so or not; and these
persons exist, chiefly, because Duly Qualified Prac-
titioners have not occupied the field
Dr. PERRY invites the /idlest investlijation into his
credentials, and gives his Personal Consideration to
each Cask, and in all cases tells the Patient the exact
nature of his complaint, the cost of a cure, and the time
it will take.
Dr. PERRY’S experience in the treatment of these
Diseases has been so varied and extensive, that he is able
to tell absolutely whether the case is curable or not, and
therefore is willing to
Guarantee to CURE EVERY CASE lie Undertakes.
VARICOCELE quickly and successfully treated without operation. DIABETES and TUMOURS treated by a
totally near tnetliod.of Cutaneous Mediation.
jf*V'' Send for Dr. BERRY'S Work on Diseases of the Reproductive Organs. Diabetes, Tumours, Skin Diseases,
etc., containing many simple directions as to SEI.U-MANAGKME.NT, the observance of which is, in many eases,
sufficient to place the Patient in a healthy .slate. All who are in any way affected should procure this work, and
thus have the benefit of his advice and experience. I'll EE ON APPLICATION.
Consultation Homs from 10 a.m. to 4 p. in. each WEEK-DAY, and from" 7to 0 p.m. on TUESDAY and SATURDAY
EVENINGS. All Consultations (either personally or by letter) FREE. Address-
Br. M. FERRY, M.R.C.S., Elmley House,
151 ELIZABETH STREET, HYDE PARK, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Mention this Paper.
Medical.
IO:r. RICHAR3DS.
The new ELECTRICAL, CONSULTING and
LABORATORY ROOMS being completed, Dr.
Richards will in future be pleased to welcome his
friends and patients, during his consulting hours,
at his new address,
34 COLLEGE STREET, SYDNEY.
I S-rIMJ
This eminent Specialist, Founder, and Chief
Surgeon of the long-established and favourably-
known Dispensary that now bears his name, re-
ceived his medical education in the leading colleges
and hospitals of Europe. He has devoted a life-
time to the study of
PRIVATE, NERVOUS, AND SKIN
DISEASES.
He has by profound research thoroughly investi-
gated their origin, traced their deadly sources and
insidious dissemination, and ascertained the surest
and safest methods by which they may bo eradi-
cated, with these widely recognised qualifications
combined with unswerving faithfulness to hit
patients,’he has during his practice, extending
over FORTY YEARS, attained a well-deserved
pre-eminence in their treatment. His practice
embraces diseases which probably cause more un-
happiness than any other class of troubles that
afflict mankind.
YOUNG MEN
who suffer from the results of early follies, trans-
gressions or excesses of more nature ago, bladder
difficulties, a whitish or dark ropy sediment in
the water, accompanied by slight burning or
smarting sensation, Headaches, Drowsiness during
the day, circles round the eyes, Giddiness,
irregularity of the bowels, specks before the eyes,
bashfulness, discontentedness, weakness or pains
in the back, Liver or kidney complaints, dreams,
buzzing noises in the ears and head, pimples, a
fear that something dreadful is about to happen,
weak stomach, yellow or blood-shot eyes, impure
blood, hasty, uncontrollable temper, hacking
cough, who cannot marry, nervousness in society,
wakefulness, palpitation of the heart, general
weakness, and other symptoms which lead to in-
sanity and death, should consult him, for he has
mastered these difficulties. On receipt of 6d. in
stamps he will send secure from observation in a
plain wrapper, postage
FREE, A LARGE CLOTH-BOUND
BOOK.
Showing plainly how all diseases of the private or
nervous system may bo cured thoroughly and per-
manently without unnecessary expenoe. This
book will prove a valuable companion, and even
though you be perfectly well its general inform-
tion and prescription may assist you in restoring
some poor friend to health even after his case has
been pronounced incurable by his medical at-
tendant.
ONE BOUND IS SUFFICIENT TO
SEND
for Remedies necessary for the cure of NER-
VOUS DEBILITY Should you require medical
treatment, as procrastination is sometimes dan-
gerous, it would be advisable for you to sit down
quietly in your chamber and write to the doctor,
detailing every experienced symptom. He will
on receipt of such a letter, write you, promptly
and courteously, a candid and straightforward
oponion of your case. If you do not think you
understand the case, send for his famous medical
work, the price of which is but sixpence ; enclosed
in the volume will be found a Ist of carefully-pre-
pared questions, which will, in all probability,
assist you materially in describing yom; ailment.
Dr. Richards uses nothing but the purest remedies,
and never prescribes mercury under any circum-
stances. The moment letters are carefully per-
used and answered they are destroyed by fire,
and patients may rest assured that their cases
will remain a secret between the doctor and
themselves. Dr. Richards has successfully treated
nearly 25,000 cases since coming to Australia, and
has permission from at least 10,000 persons to
show their written evidence of his success. All
communications should be addressed
Dr. RICHARDS,
34 COLLEGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Be sure to mention this paper when writing
CONSULTATION THEE.


Tlje London & Sydney
Tea Company,
167 Olarence-st., Sydney
Delivers carriage free
to any Railway Station
or port in N- S-Wales.
&
m
■*
■*.»
Packed in
20-lb- and 40-lb. Chests,
Price:
1/6, 1/9, 2/-, & 2/6 per lb.
Write to ns for
Samples, Post Free
WIMBLE
T. iROEmNHBOIW 00.,
Xjimited
Met
Machinery and Implement Manufacturers and Importers.
T, E. and Co.’s Improved STEEL EAETH SCOOPS, on Wheels or Skid,
T. K, AND Co.’s DAM-SINKING or 110 AD-MAKING PLOUGHS, all
sizes.
T. E. and Co.’s New DRAIN EOEMEES.
T. E. and Co.’s “ Solway ” Patent TUMBLE-OYEE BOX WOOL-
PEESS —the Cheapest and Best yet made.
T. E. AND Co.’s STEAM, ITOESE or HANHPOWEE WOOL-PEESSES,
T. E. AND Co.’s HAEYESTING MACHINEEY of every description.
T. E. and Co., Ltd., are SOLE AGENTS for the
New Light Steel “ Brantford ” Reaper and Binder.
s 407 & 40© Bllzajlsetli street.
MELBOURNE.
F.LASSETTER
AND
d
LIMITED
George
Special Attention is
Or
StZ.]T€30lt-, S3iTZDIXS !E23T. visit our showrooms.
tsr SPLENDID DISPLAY.
espeetfully directed to our Large and Varied Stock of ELECTRO-PLATED WARE, CUTLERY,
CHINA, EARTHENWARE and GLASSWARE.
A SURE GUIDE. E3” WRITE FOR ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUES — FHEB BY POST.
u
THE
“SYDNEY SPRAY.”
Price 35s Set.
This Service is of best
Staffordshire make, and
is a very neat and effec-
tive Floral Spray Design,
in Brown or Green, on
Ivory-coloured Ground,
fluted shape.
THE
“CHINESE.”
A very pretty
border design of
birds and floral
subjects, and can
be had in brown
or green colours
on ivory ground.
Price 30s Set.
WP
*
mm
DINNER SERVICES
OF
51 PIECES,
viz.,
12 Meat Plates, 12 Pudding Plates,
12 Cheese Plates, 5 Meat Dishes (in
sizes), 2 Vegetable Dishes and Covers,
1 Sauce Tureen, Stand and Ladle,
1 Pie Dish, 1 Gravy Boat.
Write for Illustrated Catalogue.
SAM WELLER.”
,J« jn jn |II Jti JII jn jivjji p jn jaaj
■^■liaujaui
No. 131. 30 inch ... ...
No. 132. 33 inch ...
No. 133. 48 inch (two ovens)
£G 0 0
7 10 0
12 10 0
The “SAM WELLER” is the
stove for the colony, being con-
structed to burn wood or coal. Its
simplicity is the secret of its suc-
cess. It is specially fitted to facili-
tate cleanliness, and perfect cooking
is the result. It requires no parti-
cular knowledge to use it, and the
castings are the best that can possi-
bly be produced, so that the wear
and tear has but little effect.
We give a copy of one out of the
many testimonials which are con-
tinually being received :
“Branxton, Sept. 16, 1890.
“F. Lassetter & Co.
“ Dear Sirs,—l feel it my duty
to express to you my thankfulness
for having recommended me to pur-
chase one of your ‘Sam Weller’
Stoves. In it I find simplicity,
combined with all the qualities a
stove Should possess ; its construc-
tion being such that either coal or
wood may be burned, and by it
cooking can be done to the utmost
satisfaction.
“ Yours faithfully,
“W. Walmsey.”
Hotel Metropole,
Bent, Pliillip & Young Streets, Sydney.
Cleavers
Transparent
Best and Cheapest
In the Market.
“ i Qolden Shanty.”
The brightest, best and most original shilling book ever
published in this country. Send it to your English friends
whom Sladen’s Anthology has disgusted.
One Shilling; Postage in Australia 3d. extra.


The Bulletin
Vol. H—No. 563.
SATURDAY, NOVEMBER 29, 1890.
Price, 04.
t
m
\ V 1
> rf >.
f
MORE “DESIRABLE COLONISTS.”
HER MOST GRAOIOUS: " I heartily applaud your scheme for sending this riff-raff to Australia. How my loving and loyal subjects there will Irak at it I am not quite certain-
but it don't matter much so long as we get rid of these objectionable and turbulent persons."
GENERAL BOOTH: “How can the Australians object? Don't I intend to put my converts all under the pump first?”


The Bulletin
The national Australian newspaper.
“ Australia for the Australians.’ 1
Proprietors : BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO.,
Limited.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 24 Pitt-street, Sydney, New South Walks.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(payable in advance, only).
~Per Annum ~ b
Half-yearly d A 6
Quarterly u b
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to he addressed to William Macleod, Managing Director.
Literary Communications to be addressed to J. F.
Archibald.
The Editor will carefully read and acknowledge in t‘ ie
“ Correspondence” column all contributions submitted—-
whether in the form of Political, Social, or other Articles,
Verse, Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns : in
length, or say 3000 words, are specially acceptable).
Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper-Clippings. All
communications will be regarded as strictly confidential.
“ The Bulletin ” will return all unavailable MSS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we
desire those sending MSS. to distinctly undo sta nd that
we arc not responsible for the preservation or transmission
of such MSS.
NOTICE.
By sending direct to Tire Bulletin Office Twenty Shillings
sterling—which you may pay by Post Office Order, One
Pound Note, or Stamps of any Australian colony—you
can have Tire Bulletin posted regularly to you every week
for a year.
This offer is not open to residents of Sydney. In that
city Tire Bulletin is not delivered by mail, but is entirely
in the hands of our carriers, with whom ice do not wish
to interfere.
T^e'^xzllelx^i.
SATURDAY, NOVEMBER 29, 1890.
The Ghost of an Old Fetish.
The Imperial Federation fad, which died a
few years ago of J. Bullish stupidity and was
shovelled into a nameless grave, still refuses
to be aware of its own decease, and every
now and then its ghost arises from the
sepulchre under a mistaken impression that
it is still a living influence instead of a dead
idiot. It is one of the saddest peculiarities
of a deceased chimera that one end of it
always insists on sticking out of its tomb to
be a nuisance and an offence to succeeding
generations. The world is full of the em-
balmed and petrified fads of past centuries—
tough and enduring lies whose dry bones
resist the wear and tear of years and are
found again in after ages like the dusty
mummies of Thebes or Memphis, and the
great Federation theory has already taken
its place among those hoary incrustations of
the old, useless, ignorant past. Its useful-
ness, if it ever had any, is gone past re-
demption, and it now finds a congenial rest-
ing place along with the scheme for recover-
ing the brains of James 11., and the project
for re-asserting the divine right of the last
heiress of the Stuarts, and the plan for the
restoration of the Pope to his old situation
as the supreme boss of Christendom, and the
movement for raising another statue to
Brown, and similar inspirations, old and
new. But a few devoted followers still
believe in their lost fetish and publish a
newspaper about it, and imagine that the
world takes an interest in their existence
and whenever two of these individuals are
gathered together they organise themselves
into a society or an “ Institute ” and publish
a manifesto on the progress of the Cause,
thereby causing much unnecessary waste of
stamps and public derision.
# * •
The Imperial Federation project was born
dead because it never acquired the support
of the masses. It was essentially an aristo-
cratic and shabby-genteel movement, and
the democracy—which composes three-
fourths of the population—-was hardly aware
of its existence. But to the class of gilded
loafers, toadies, and hangers-on who com-
posed the bulk of the Federationists, the
democracy is still an unknown quantity, and
the workman and the horse stand on much
the same level. The latter is doubtless a
noble animal—he is full of good qualities,
and there are admittedly thousands of men
who could be more easily spared than one
respectable beast of burden which pursues
its honourable avocation in the shafts of a
coal-cart. But the idea that the horse
should have opinions apart from those of his
owner —that the horse should rise in
organised insurrection that the horse
should demand a vote, and insist on going
into Parliament, and proceed to pass laws
f or the maintenance of its own interest®, is
beyond the limit of human comprehension,
and to the dismal Conservative of the Im-
perial Federation movement the revolt of the
Democracy is quite as unintelligible. He
knows, in a general sort of way, that
nineteen-twentieths of the population look
upon him as a bloated and somewhat
deranged fanatic, but why these nineteen-
twentieths should have any voice in the
matter he is unable even to guess. And by
leaving them entirely out of consideration he
persuades himself to his own satisfaction
that even in Australia there is a vast amount
of popular enthusiasm on behalf of his old,
forgotten fad, and that—the microbe of
Federation is everywhere in the air. A
person named Nicholls, of Yan Diemen’s
Land, who evidently mistakes himself for
the Voice of United Australia, adopts this
mode of reasoning in the columns of the
United Service Magazine, and the journal
of the Federation movement rises with a
whoop to inform its readers that Austra-
lasia is solid in the great cause of Imperial
unity. In other words, Nicholls himself is
solid, and the rest of the population is of no
account, and as Nicholls himself “points
out ” this fact, the matter is placed beyond
dispute :
So far aS the Australian press is concerned, Mr.
Nicholls proves his ease up to the hilt. He admits that
it is not easy to say positively what the actual stale of
public opinion is upon Imperial Federation, but he points
out that Mr. Parkin, when lecturing on what he called
“National Unity,” was received enthusiastically in New
Zealand, Victoria, and Tasmania, and was listened to by
large and sympathetic audiences in South Australia and
the other colonies. If he met with a less favourable
reception in Queensland or Sydney, Mr. Nicholls points
out that here there is “a noisy set of people who call
themselves Nationalists, who display their nationality by-
plundering the Chinese shops on all occasions, and who
are disposed to allow no one to say anything which does
not suit themselves.” He adds that “ the so-called
Nationalist party in New South Wales and Queensland is
very aggressive, assertive, insolent, and abusive ; but we
must not conclude that it is the predominant party, since
the real strength of the Colonies cannot be said to belong
to it at all.”
But the skeleton still hangs round at the
Federation banquet, for no one cares for
Nicholls —if there is any Nicholls ; and
no one remembers the existence of Parkin
—if there ever was a Parkin ; and the only
reason why Australia does not express its
unanimous and unspeakable contempt for
the whole scheme of “Imperial Unity ” is
because it is useless to throw mud at a corpse
or to get up a public demonstration against
Pompey or Rameses. As for the little group
of politicians and tuft-hunters who formed
the Imperial party in Australia some five
years ago they are dead, or fallen from their
high estate, or else they have recanted and
gone back upon the grovel of their fore-
fathers. The present Parliament of Queens-
land was elected by the solid vote of a great
Nationalist majority, and the party which
N icholls affects to treat as a mere handful
of unconsidered rowdies proved itself at the
ballot-box to include three-fourths of the
nation ; the Opposition is Nationalist to a
man; the Griffith Government exists by
the support of its Republican Treasurer ;
and even the Premier himself—the supposed
prop and stay of loyalty—writes strangely
socialistic theories which get into print in the
columns of a socialistic newspaper. In New
South Wales, Dallby, the Uksar of the
Soudan, who was in himself the whole brain
and intellect and intelligence of the
Imperial movement, is gone, and he has
left no successor ; while the unstable
Parkes promulgates democratic theories
in his old age, and hoots at the
memory of the famous African expedition,
and all the combined ability of the
rising generation of young men is repub-
lican to the core. Duncan Gillies, the
prize groveller of Victoria, has just dropped
iirnominiously from his high estate ; Julius
Vogel —the author of a literary effort which
is full of dukes, and in which he represents
a British monarch as being crowned Emperor
of Australasia and the other colonies —has
been followed out of New Zealand by the
unanimous execration of the inhabitants ;
and when the veteran democrat Grey ap-
peared in the Assembly at Wellington with
a proposition that the colony should throw
its imported Governor overboard, and elect
a Governor of its oavu, who would be, in all
except the name, the President of the Maori-
land Commonwealth, there was no wild
hurst of loyal indignation, for the sadly
commonplace reason that there were no
howlingly loyal members left. If there is any
Imperial Federation party remaining in Aus-
tralia, it is time that it should rise up in
its might to delay the progress of these
three incendiaries, M‘llwraith, Grey and
Co., and put Parkes and Griffith under
surveillance, and get the heads of a lot of
others upon soup-plates, and thus do some-
thing to demonstrate its existence.
# * *
The only link which could bind the motley
Empire together in a solid Federation is the
sovereign, and if Australia has no particular
veneration for the British monarch, then the
federal scheme is built of water. There is no
bond of sympathy between the Australian
farmer and the rack-renting Irish landlord,
or between the gold-digger of Charters
Towers or Bendigo and the leper of Hong-
kong. The citizen of Sydney respectfully
hut firmly declines to he a brother by Act of
Parliament to the Hindoo, or to become
related to the Hottentot and the Egyptian
merely out of regard for the murderous
traditions of England, for under a system of
Imperial Federation some 270,000,000 cheap
Indians and innumerable myriads of still
cheaper Chinamen would have the run of this
continent, and the joyous fact that Edward
the Seventh had been promoted to be Em-
peror of Australia would hardly compensate
for this disaster. The Chinaman and the
Hindoo, as British citizens, would have the
same right as the Englishman or the Aus-
tralian to infest any part of the Empire
which pleased their fancy, unless the Federal
Parliament chose to restrain their move-
ments, and the Federal Parliament would be
dominated by the tremendous numerical
majority of England, so that Australia would
be practically unheard. The ultimatum of
the country is that Australia will federate
with no Asiatic power, and as the Imperial
Federation party could offer no solution of
this difficulty while it was alive, it may
reasonably give up the attempt now that it
is dead.
# * *
The Federation League, at its best, was a
disorganised body with an impracticable plan
for doing something that was recognised to
be impossible. It had a good deal of poetry
but no programme ; it was short of grammar
and devoid of intelligence ; and even its
latest supporter admits that it never ventured
to face its own difficulties :
“The problem,” Mr. Nicholas sa.vs, “is how to con-
struct a Legislature which shall represent the Empire,
make laws for the Empire, be to the Empire what the
Congress at Washington is to the United States. We are
told that such a Legislature is an impossibility, that it is
a dream, the shadow of a shade ; but we answer that
this has yet to be proved, for no attempt at Federation
has yet been made, nor does the spirit seem to lie abroad.
. .' . Are, then, we to believe that all originality has
been exhausted, and that we have nothing to do but sit
down and let things drift?”
Possibly matters would be simplified a good
deal if the writer bad ventured to consider
even the first of the problems which de-
manded solution. The population of the
Empire is made up of five-sixths Africans
and Asiatics, mostly Moslems, Buddhists,
and mixed idolaters ; and one-sixth alleged
Christians of Anglo-Saxon origin. There-
fore if it is to be federated under a repre-
sentative Parliament the sceptre must be
transferred from Europe to Asia, and the
Moslem and the Buddhist must run the
show ; and if the Moslem and the Buddhist
do not run the show thei’e will be noimperial
Federation at all, for some 84 per cent, of
Victoria’s subjects will have no share in the
movement. If the representatives of the
countless millions of Ghoorkhas, Sikhs,
Hindoos, Mahrattas, Cingalese, and other
assorted sons of Shem are to sit in the halls
at Westminster and decide the fate of
this continent, Australia prefers to stand
out from motives of policy and self-interest.
If these gentlemen are not to manage
the affairs of this continent then Australia
also stands out, for an Imperial Federation,
in which the largest part of the Empire is
not represented, would be merely a league of
the conquerors for the more effectual sub-
jugation of the conquered, and the Austra-
lian refuses either to surrender his own
liberty or to crush out that of any other
nation.-And, in addition, he declines to take
over a share in England’s enemies, who
arc numerous ; or to soil his hands with
England’s foreign policy, which is tortuous
and shady and consists chiefly in bullying
Portugal and cringing to Germany or to
accept a vested interest in England’s debt,
which was accumulated in the frantic effort
to prop up the old tyrants of France ; or to
concern himself with England’s army, which
is made up mostly of five-hundred generals
and a handful of starved and swindled
privates ; or to trust his safety to England’s
lleet seeing that one-third of it breaks down
hopelessly when it goes out to execute a few
peaceful manoeuvres on the unruffled surface
of a summer sea. And, last of all, he will not
give any Federal Parliament, any more than
he will give any Salvation Army General,
the power to fire the pauperism of England
into Australia, and as his practical experi-
ences of the British connection are made
up of British convictism in the first place,
and the massacre of Australian diggers by
British soldiers in the second, he has but
little inducement to draw any closer a
“bond” that has brought nothing but
disaster.
# * *
And yet, despite all the inherent diffi-
culties and anomalies and hopeless contra-
dictions of “Imperial Unity,” the project
died, not so much through its own impos-
sibility as through public indifference. As
far as the masses were concerned, nobody
cared for it and nobody listened to it. To
the Englishman, no doubt, it seems feasible
enough, for he intends to command the
majority in the Federal Parliament and boss
the empire ; but to the Australian, who
spent many weary years in getting rid of
the incubus of British official interference
in the ante-constitutional period, the sug-
gestion that he should practically surrender
all that he has acquired is as hopelessly
absurd as the idea of starting a new crusade.
The hangman and the person hanged seldom
regard the subject of strangulation from the
same standpoint. Even the poetry that has
been wasted about the solidification of the
glorious British race has fallen flat—the fact
that the brigand bursts out into song has
very little effect, as a rule, on the person he
intends to plunder ; and whatever the value
of sentiment may be at short range, senti-
ment at 1(5,000 miles distance becomes an
attenuated emotion. As for personal devotion
to the sovereign, it is all but extinct, for the
Australian has never seen his sovereign, and
love is not a feeling which can bo profitably
reared by telegraph. When Victoria raised
a Jubilee some two or three years ago, Aus-
tralia illuminated in honour of the event—in
other words, a set of enthusiastic officials
hung out oil-lamps or candles at long and
ghastly intervals, and wept tears of grease
on (ho heads of the disgusted spectators ;
and when Wales celebrates a birthday the
country makes a note of the fact that a
fat man has lumbered past another mile-
stone in his useless career, but there are
no rejoicings, and the only bell that is rung
is the bell at the back door of the public-
house. Even if the Imperial Federation
movement were alive and had a programme
it could make no headway against the in-
difference and derision of a continent; as a
dead institution without a programme the
task is trebly hopeless. As for Nicholes’
imbecile and utterly unfounded jeer that
the Australian National party is a body
which “displays its nationality by plundering
Chinese shops on all occasions,” it is a burst
of eloquence of which Baron Munchausen
himself might reasonably feel ashamed.
The fancy picture of Chief Justice Higin-
botham, Sir George Grey, Sir Thomas
MTlwraith, and other such men, raid-
ing a Mongolian tea-store with axes and
guns may possibly pass muster in the
columns of Imperial Federation, though
the superhuman ignorance which could
accept such a tale passes all earthly compre-
hension. The British citizen of last century
was wont to suffer from a waking nightmare,
in which he pictured the American republi-
can of that era as a semi-human monster
consisting chiefly of blood and claws, and
apparently the British citizen of to-day is
prepared to look upon the ustralian repub-
lican as a zoological curiosity of the same
order.
Insanity in Court.
The case of Watson versus Cain and others,
the latest nine days’ wonder of the Melbourne
law-courts, provided opportunity for an all-
round display of solemn stupidity and respec-
table humbug. J. B. Watson, of Bendigo,
died recently, leaving a sinfully large sum oi
money to be divided amongst his fortunate
relatives. Ere passing hence, the late Mr.
Watson appointed certain trustees for his
bloated estate, and imposed upon them special
conditions with regard to his unmarried
daughter, Georgina. The lucky maiden afore -
said was to receive £2OOO a year from the
trustees for a period of 21 years, after which
she, in common with the rest of the family,
would be further enriched by a proportionate
share in the residue of the trust capital.
The fond parent, however, affixed a proviso
to the Georgina grant, to the effect that if she
married without the consent of the trustees, her
loving husband would have to take her for her-
self alone, leaving the lady’s £2OOO a year and
expectations to the mercy of the remaining
legatees. True to the traditions of her rex,
Miss Georgina lost little time in becoming
wildly enamoured of one Paul Kitz, an appa-
rently nice young man possessed of a rung
income and a first-class moustache. To this
choice the trustees objected for a succession of
reasons, the last of which proved fatal to
Georgina’s chance of becoming lawfully united
to Kitz without sacrificing £2OOO a year and
extras over the sweet transaction. Called upon
to supply reasonable cause for refusing consent
to the Kitz-Watson alliance, the trustees have
satisfied Justice Hood that there is a strong
suspicion of hereditary insanity in the Kitz
family. Consequently the Law declines to
overrule the GEORGINA-marriage clause of J. B.
Watson’s will in favour of Paul Kitz ; but
then the Law can’t stop her from marrying him
and ruining her happiness, so far as he is or
would be able to ruin it if mad. All the Law
can do is to take away her money—an utterly
illogical remedy for the evil complained of,
inasmuch as there would only be substituted a
woman with a mad husband and no money of
her own, for a woman with a mad husband
and £2OOO a year of her own. Yet
nobody need weep over the story of Paul and
Georgina. He has enough money to keep a wife
in luxury, and it may be supposed that the lady
has saved a trifle out of her handsome allow-
ance up to date; if she has not already
done so, the sooner she begins the better.
Of all the miserable twaddle talked and
written about this cause celebre, the most
miserable twaddle was an article in the
Age, assuming (before the Judge gave his
decision) that “ the temple of Hymen is
closed against ” Miss Watson and her wealthy
lover, and that they “should not complain if
society thinks fit to exercise a little forethought
for them.” Cant and nonsense ! The question
is merely one of church ceremony as against
the bride’s dowry, and if the parties chose to
get married “in the sight of God,” without the
purchased blessing of a parson, society would
visit them and dote upon them even more
freely than if they married according to law
and kept up a smaller establishment.
* * *
The trustees of J. B. Watson maintain —by
inference, if not directly—that no member o
any family that is apparently tainted with in
sanity is' entitled to take a woman to hie
embrace. The -well-proven fact that genius is
near akin to madness, with its corollary that
the sanest persons are necessarily those with
the minimum allowance of brains compatible
with the possession of ordinary intelligence,
didn’t influence the matrimonial referees, nor
did the learned Judge have anything sensible to
say on that point. Listening to the evidence
in court, and the comments made upon it, one
might have imagined that insanity had never
existed outside the domestic circle of Kitz, yet
a large percentage of the legal gentleman
present must have the skeleton of a lunatic or
two stored away in the family cupboard.
There was nobody with sufficient pluck to
argue that Paul Km’s brain is as likely
to retain its present healthy condition as
are the brains of half the leading royal per-
sonages of Europe. The Judge might, wo make
bold to say, have drawn upon Ids own reminis-
cences of insanity amongst his acquaintances
for examples in support of Km’s claim to be
considered a fair matrimonial “ risk.” The
fierce light that beats upon Thrones has dis-
closed what some people all'ect to regard as a
shocking amount of madness in the royalty


Rev. G. I). Buchanan, of Wickham Terraco
(Brisbane) Presbyterian Kirk, and the best
preacher in Queensland, smokes, drinks whisky,
and speaks his mind. During the strike he openly
championed the strikers with tongue and pen,
which, seeing that Munro, managing director of
the 8.1.5. N. Co. is one of the elders of the Kirk,
was not the most “expedient ” thing to do. As
might have been expected, the elders passed a vote
of censure, which fell unheeded on its subject. At
the same time one of the members of the strike-
committee was on the congregational roll; and b>
the pastor’s amazement there one day visited him
a deputation from the unco’ guid praying that the
unregenerate sheep be deprived of church member-
ship. “Well, gentlemen," said Buchanan, “ 1
don't mind doing that, but I ’ll strike off my own
at the same time.” Then the deputation retired,
“on its ear,” mortified beyond expression to think
that a par-on to whom it vie giving £lOOO a year
could be so independent, 'Buchanan is an Ameri-
can of Scotch descent, and tin able lawyer.
trade, but it is only reasonable to suppose that
mental disease exists to an equal extent in
families that are able to keep the circumstance
covered up. If every man or woman against
whom there is an indirect suspicion of
lunacy in the blood were prohibited from
matrimony and persuaded to refrain from pro-
pagating the species, the white human race
would become terribly uninteresting by about
1950 a.d., and the blacks—who mostly lack
the means of going mad—would probably eat
the very few Englishmen that were left,
# # #
Two features of the Watson-Kitz marriage
question are worthy of special reference. Even
admitting that the young man’s brother and
sister had a predisposition to madness, in which
ease he himself might be a likely subject to
follow suit, Miss Watson’s trustees are not
entitled by the laws of Nature to assume that
the problematical taint would be transmitted to
any children born of his marriage. Mental
characteristics are bestowed by the mother, to
the best of medical science’s belief, therefore, if
Miss Watson is satisfied to take Kitz as a part-
ner, the future generation have no cause to
complain. Then, again, the decision of the
lady’s moneyholders is irrevocable, and if she
marries without their consent her fortune is
swallowed up by the estate and can never he
disgorged. Here she is badly treated. Wat-
son’s executors are supposed to be repre-
senting the old man on earth. They come into
Court and say that they act just as they
think he would have acted under the same
circumstances. The ghost of J. B. Watson is
supposed to be objecting to Paul Kitz on
insaneitary grounds, and threatening to cut
Miss Georgina off without a shilling if she
marries the son of an estimable citizen, who
(and here comes in the “social position”
objection put forward by the trustees) sold very
good cider in days of yore. But there is this
difference between the dead millionaire and his
living substitutes ; that whereas he might have
been convinced against his will after the
marriage ceremony, the other fellows can’t be.
No tears or protestations will touch the heart
of a revoked legacy, nor is a residue amenable
to persuasion, The judge overlooked this
delicate point when he delivered his verdict
against two loving hearts. The case through-
out bristled with solemn stupidity (as was
remarked at the outset of this lucid essay), and
contributed nothing to the wisdom of the world
save only a further proof of the hereditary
insanity of the Law,
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Torture at Botany Bay.
The Bulletin' has never hesitated to avow its
belief that the gallows, far from being an instru-
ment for the reformation of .Society and the
repression and extinction of assassination, is a
mere agent for the corruption of the community
by lessening the respect in which human life is
held and familiarising the world with cold-
blooded murder committed for the sake of gain
by State-appointed man-butchers, But suppose
all the contentions of the uncivilised persons
who still uphold an institution which has for
its record a thousand years of failure, be for an
instant granted, why should the community
deliberately go out of its way to super-
add torture to the punishment of death ?
.Surely when the State butchers a convict
it claims to do so in no spirit of brutal
revenge, the situation merely being: “You,
the condemned convict, we are grieved to say,
disagree with ns. We are the majority and
you have made war upon life. Therefore, we,
calmly and dispassionately, and as an act
of necessity forced upon us by you, re-
move you from the world in order that the
nation at large may be moresecure.” “Prisoner
at the bar,” once said Chief Justice Martin,
“ the law, in sentencing you to die, does so with
infinite pity.” bet us quote, for the edification
of the authorities who have already more than
once permitted, or refrained from repressing,
such refined cruelty as is indicated below,
portions of the diary of the Venerable Arch-
deacon Pownall (the clergyman who attended
the murderer Schmidt, hanged at Wagga last
week, in Ins last moments): —
Thursday, November 13.—Spent some time with
Schmidt. Kelt much distressed and interrupted in my
conversation with him by the noise arising from the
erection of the scaffold for his execution. This 1 found
could not be avoided by the workmen, owing to the well
for the drop of the body over which the scaffold is being
raised being only a few feet from the cell where Schmidt
is confined. In fact, to-morrow he will be able to see
through the grating of his cell the grim post from which
he is to be hurled into eternity. Asked Schmidt if he
knew what was going on. Ves, he knew all, and though
as stolid in his demeanour as ever, there was a perceptible
shudder in the man as the noises connected with the pre-
parations for his execution fell upon his ear. In speaking
to him I could not help feeling that the surroundings
were a scandal and a disgrace, akin to the torture of the
rack in the dark ages, for not a word could be said or t he
slightest noise made in connection with the erection
of the gallows without reaching the unfortunate
prisoner. More than this, there were other noises, the
talking of some 18 prisoners in a small gaol yard, where,
owing to inadequate space, and the rain that was falling,
they were forced to congregate in a shed within a few feel
of the gallows and the condemned cell. In speaking to
these men and asking them to speak in whispering tones
until the ghastly tragedy was over, I could not help
feeling how demoralising the whole surroundings were to
these men, and not only demoralising, but how costly it
may prove to the country in the long run. Schmidt
to-day was more depressed. No wonder I
Friday, November 14.— Schmidt seems to realise more
deeply the fate that awaits him. It could not be other-
wise,'as all day long he is forced to hear the sounds of
preparations for his execution. For the first time he
wears an anxious look and shows traces of mental sutfer-
i'ig
Saturday, November la.—Sat for along time in Sen Mini’s
cell, the gallows being visible' through the grating, but I
Mil thankful to record that the work will be finished
to day, and he will have at least two days of quietude
before he is hung
1 may record that the (final) arrangements on the part
of the gaol officials were perfect, everything was done as
far as circumstances would allow "decently and in
order,” the one exception being the unavoidable noise of
living the ropes, which sent, a shudder through the
prisoner’s frame, and added severely to his torture,
chis had to be done within a few feet of where be was
kneeling, and pleading for God's mercy. As a man, a
citizen, and a Christian, I am constrained to say that the
parsimony that hangs men under such circumstances is
barbarous, revolting, and deserving of 'lie severest con-
demnation.
Parnellism and Divorce.
The long-expected O’Shea divorce-suit has
come to an end, and the moral character of
Charles .Stuart Parnell, the “uncrowned
king of Ireland,” has gone to join that of most
of the British royal family and the British
aristocracy. He has taken the same unholy
track as the saints and patriarchs of Scripture,
and followed the road pursued by half of
the human race—the road that leads to the
eternal smash of the seventh commandment and
the general destruction and upheaval of the
decalogue. Consequently there is a wild whoop
of indignation throughout the Conservative
press, for the one unpardonable crime against
British hypocrisy is the crime of being found
out, and Parnell has allowed himself to
be found out-with a cynical disregard for the
great theology of cant which is in itself an in-
sult to snuffledom and all its traditions. In a
cold, inscrutable way he lias permitted his
outer respectability to slide as if it was a thing
not worth preserving, and all the journals
which have combined in the past to hush-up
royal scandals, and ugly divorce-suits in which
royalty stood a fair chance of figuring as co-
respondent, and Cleveland Club scandals
wherein Royal Princes were mixed up, now
dqmand that he should be thrown out of
‘ ‘ society ” —into which he was never received—
and that the Irish National cause should be
regarded in future as an unclean thing on
account of its leader’s depravity. In this
respect Australia has followed the general
example, and, among the rest, the Age
(which —are you listening, David Syme, Esq. ?—
deified Graham Berry for years and years
after the special commission report in re that
appointment given to his father-in-law) relieves
its feelings thus
Another popular idol has been knocked off its pedestal;
for although one of his worshippers has telegraphed all
the way from Adelaide to Dublin to know whether there
is any truth in the report that Mr. Parnell has resigned
in consequence of his misbehaviour with Mrs. O'Shea, and
received an assurance that " there is none whatever,” we
cannot be asked to seriously believe that Parnellism still
remains enshrined in the hearts of its devotees, unless it
be as an abstraction in a state of naked divorce from the
God himself.
If this means anything at all, it means that
Parnellism is—or ought to be—dead because
Parnell has damaged a Commandment which
has been in a chronic state of wreck for ages,
and it will probably be a surprise and a serious
shock to the Tory press when Parnellism goes
on much as before. But the incarnate Peck-
sniff of morality probably forgets that Par-
nellism is only another name for Irish liberalism,
and Ireland intends to gain her liberty whether
her leader’s morals are shattered or not. Also,
while Parnell is an efficient weapon for the
National party, that party will probably con-
tinue to use him, even though he should break
the remaining nine Commandments and send
their mangled fragments to keep company with
the one that is already gone. The famous
Mordaunt divorce-suit cast a woefully-ugly
shadow upon British royalty, but no Tory
journal dreamt of demanding that royalty—
notwithstanding that royalty had for ages been
only another name for lust—should be abolished
in consequence; and a later scandal has cast
another and a darker shade on the same instit u-
tion, but the throne still exists. Nelson’s
reputation was overtaken by a ruin ten times
worse than that of the Irish leader, but Eng-
land whooped for her favourite hero all the
same. Gambetta received his death-wound
from a revolver in the hands of his mistress,
but France only remembered him as the grandest
figure of the dark days of 1871, and his morals
—if he had any —were not mentioned on his
tombstone. Therefore the chances are that
Ireland, with certain reasonable precedents to
go upon, will tacitly return a verdict that the
morality of her uncrowned king is a matter in
which the country takes no interest, and that
Parnellism —being a movement for the release
of Ireland and not for the preservation of Mr.
Parnell’s inner soul — will keep serenely on its
way. And unless the Tory press is prepared to
live up to its own creed by repudiating pretty
nearly every adult male of the house of Guelph,
and three-fourths of the British aristocracy to
boot, and the immediate dissolution of the House
of Lords, it can hardly, with any show of reason,
object to this arrangement.
The Revival of Transportation.
That long, gaunt Yankee philanthropist dressed
in red, who goes by the name of General
Booth, is reported to he working out a fresh
scheme for the deportation of British paupers
and criminals to the golden shores of Australia,
and, as might be anticipated, the idea has been
well received by the British aristocracy whose
one idea is to remove the starving masses out of
shooting distance. There are now some three
millions hungry unemployed in the three king-
doms —men, women, and children, old and
young, cripples, lunatics, infants, incurables,
and able-bodied workers all counted—and of
these there are probably some two millions who
have vigour enough to heave a brick at their
hereditary enemies if they only knew how to
begin. The Tory landlord is therefore well-
disposed towards any scheme which will maroon
a part of this army on some foreign strand, and
leave them to starve or breed revolution there
instead of in their native country. There is
abundance of air and elbow-room on this con-
tinent, and the philanthropic British idiot , and
his friend, the loyal and philanthropic Aus-
tralian idiot, are both possessed by a vague
inspiration that the pauper can lie made rich by
dumping him down on some empty plain, and
telling him to cultivate the ground, when he
can neither dig nor raise the money to buy a
spade. Even among British statesmen of re-
puted ability there arc many who continue to
preach the old nostrum of emigration as a
remedy for want, and yet the theory is more
glaringly imbecile than astrology itself, and the
African rain maker is wiser in his generation
than General Booth and all Ins supporters.
Revolution ami not emigration is the remedy
that the unemployed Englishman really
wants. England is already, with the ex-
ception of the United -States, the richest
country on earth, and even in proportion to
population there is more wealth in the British
Isles than in the Australasian colonies. The
Briton—if he only knew it—is allowing himself
to be shipped off from a land of affluence to one
of comparative poverty, and his patrons who
shunt him to the antipodes would as cheerfully
shunt him into the Great Desert if they could
persuade him to go, for their only object is to
get rid of him, and how he fares after he is
gone no one cares.
# « «
If the Englishman had but courage and
intelligence enough to abolish the whole race
of greedy landlords, sponging aristocrats,
and usurious capitalists, then emigration
would cease, for no man in his senses desires to
leave a treasure-house for a wilderness, and lest
he should one day realise this fact his friends
and patrons are benevolently desirous that he
should go away and prosper in some far-distant
land where he will be beyond gunshot-range of
them ere he wakesup to a full sense of the swindle
that has been played upon him. For, if he does
not emigrate and thus remove himself out of the
road, then it must happen, sooner or later, that
the ignorant agricultural slaves of Essex and
Norfolk who labour for a week when they can
get work—which happens occasionally—and the
gaunt, stunted, underfed spinners and weavers
of Manchester and Huddersfield, and the dock-
labourers of London and Liverpool, and all the
great, unsavoury army of -paupers and cripples
and sweated artisans, and miscellaneous toilers
whose only permanent home is an attic
or a gutter, may find out to their
surprise that the country which refuses
them work or food is a country that overflows
with riches, and their indignation may lead to
startling results. The uprising of three million
desperate human beings, all filled with a vague
sense of intolerable wrong, and all thirsting for
vengeance, is more dangerous and more uncer-
tain in its action than three million tons of
dynamite, and the one desire of the privileged
in England, is that all these uncertain elements
should be sent away elsewhere, or anywhere, to
a distant region from which they will never
come back. Whether they emigrate to Austra-
lia, or the North Pole, or the bottom of the
Atlantic, or the sand-drifts of Gobi, it is all
one. The more who go tire fewer remain to
be reckoned with on the day when monopoly
and monarchy and landlordism all come to grief
together. Let hypocritical John Bull consume
his own smoke. Let him meet the monster
which his monarchical and plutocratic system
has created. Rather than have the brutality of
Great Britain, clad in an evanescent coat of
hysterical varnish from the brush of the ealcu-
latingly-frenzied Booth, dumped down on these
shores, the Australian worker will send money
to set London on fire.
♦
Tire Shearers’ Agreement.
The sword of Justice is said to be two-edged,
but the comments of the New South Wales
judges in the Shearers’ Appeal Case show
plainly that one of its edges has been blunted.
The clauses of the shearing agreement, which
were under discussion by the Full Court, were
to this effect:—
Clause I.—ln which the said shearers do each of them
hereby engage to shear and to continue shearing from
day to day until the whole of the sheep the property of
the said sheepowuer are shorn subject to and in accord-
ance with the following terms and conditions.
Clause 10.—Which provided that in any ease any
shearer left or was discharged before the completion of
the shearing he should be paid in full for all the sheep
shorn by him, but should be charged ISs. per week for
board.
The Chief Justice pointed out that when there
were two inconsistent clauses in a deed, or any
other instrument in writing, tlie second clause
must yield to the first. He also said that clause
10, to be consistent with clause 1, must refer to
“legally leaving, or leaving with the consent of
the sheepowner.” But if this be so should not
‘ being discharged ’ also mean being legally dis-
charged, or discharging with the consent of the
shearer ? The Chief Justice said that the con-
tract being an indivisible one—on the one side
to shear all the sheep, and on the other to
pay for them when shorn—if the shearer left
without consent he forfeited everything. From
this it would appear that all the rights and
privileges belong to the employer, and that the
manacles have only been removed from the
limbs of the labourer to be placed on the earn-
ings of his labour. It seems also that any
agreement entered into between employer and
holds good only until it comes in con-
fiict with the interests of the employer,
when it becomes as valueless as so much
wastepaper. If a man cannot legally
leave without his employer’s permission,
under penalty of forfeiting his earnings, and
becoming liable to a prosecution, then, if the
sword of Justice cut both ways alike, the em-
ployer should not be able to discharge a man
without his consent, under penalty of being
compelled to pay him, not only all lie had
earned up to date, but all he might have earned
had he stayed till the end, and the employe
should be empowered to prosecute him in the
same way. For, if this interpretation of the
clause holds good in the one case, it is equally
good for the other. Mr. Justice Windeyek
also said that to interpret these clauses as
Mr. Want desired, would be to leave the men
too much at the mercy of cruel employers, and
would also leave the employers too much at the
mercy of unprincipled men. But the fact of
the matter is that the men are already as much
at the mercy of the employer as any interpre-
tation of those clauses could possibly make
them, for the employer, it is obvious, can dis-
charge any or all of his men at a moment’s
notice, with or without cause, according as he
sees fit. Again we ask, “ Who make the labour
laws ? and who are going to make them in the
future ?”
A Maoriland paper, which seemingly holds
a brief for the fat bookmaker, publishes an
illogical yarn to prove that the totalisator
destroys a horse-owner's chance of winning a
big stake. What is actually proved is that
any racing-club running the machine offers the
public an inducement to gamble on terms which
are not ruinous, and, as a natural result, is able
to add largely to the prizes offered for com-
petition amongst owners. Only one plausible
argument is advanced against totalisator- bel ti ng,
viz., that the system causes men to keep stable-
secrets from their best friends, inasmuch as
every fresh ticket bought for any given horse
reduces the dividend to be paid in the event
of the horse winning. The awful fact that
nineteen out of twenty stables often put their
friends on a loser, and that the proportion of
men who back the “right one” will be the
same, whether they do it with a disreputable
Hebrew or a respectable machine, has never
occurred to our muddledieaded Maoriland
contemp. Besides, there will always be big
ringmen ready to book the bulk of any
owner’s commission at stated odds, and
heavy bettors will not trouble the totalisator
much, anyway. But, look at the matter how
one will, it is impossible to avoid seeing the
main point of advantage which the machine has
over the bejewelled Aaron. Its profits go to
the racing club, and on through the club to the
horse-owner. The interests of sport, and of the
public who are willing to pay for it, demand
that owners shall have every possible encourage-
ment to run their horses straight for stakes that
will be worth their going for without any heavy
backing of the horses. As things are now at
Flemington or Rand wick, we have owners win-
ning smaller prizes than they might, and outside
punters losing much more money than they
need lose, taking one meeting with another,
and all in order that an unsavoury tribe of mid-
dlemen may fatten upon the popular weakness
for gambling. The bookmaker must go. Not
altogether, perhaps, but he must be wiped off
the face of this fair land as much as possible.
Sir Samuel Griffith has already started to
“modify” his scheme of local government in
Queensland, and, as usual, the modification has
been effected by abandoning the only demo-
cratic item in the whole cumbrous programme.
There are still to be three expensive local Par-
liaments, and a costly Federal Parliament, and
four Ministries, and an equal number of
Oppositions, and all the unnecessary riot and
display of departments and sub-departments
already foreshadowed, but the proposal that
the deputy-governors of Northern and Central
Queensland should be elected by the people has
been dropped, and each of the new colonies is
to import its vice-regal Joss from Hingland
in the good old way, unless the job seems too
small for any British “nobleman’s” acceptance,
in which case some local person who is sound and
reliable in his grovel will probably be nomi-
nated to the post. Then there will be two
more openings .for the imported aide-de-kong
with the retreating forehead and the profusion
of bangles—presents from local married women
--on his wrists, and that old, worn and mentally
dog-eared address, in which the population of
Bug’s Flat undertakes to sell its shirt in order
to support the throne, will increase and multiply
in the land. The pressure of exotic Governor to
the scpiare inch is already very great in this
country, and its capacity for increase seems
practically unlimited. Germany, in its best
days, kept over two thousand monarchs going
simultaneously ■; even with this number
there was enough popular abasement to go
round, and if Australia has failed so far to beat
that record she is at least doing as well as her
circumstances will reasonably allow.
This is even more true in Australia than in
England, where it was written :
The “tied house” is a monstrosity of modern years,
neither pood for the brewer, nor the publican, nor the
public. It exempts the first from the stimulus of com-
petition. It compels the second to sell, and the third to
drink, bad beer, and possibly worse spirits. Practically
it makes the publican the mere slave of the brewer, for
his tenure is of the most precarious character, and its
conditions most arbitrary and onerous. It certainly
never was contemplated by the legislature of former day's
that “tied houses” would have reached their present
number or status. Unfortunately, the conversion of big-
breweries into public companies lias resulted in a perfect
rush for “tied houses,” the brewers going everywhere
into the retail business on their own hook. The old con-
dition of things was that the publican was an ordinary
tenant. To-day in these houses he is simply the salaried
servant of a brewer’s firm, paid weekly, and liable to dis-
charge, often at a week’s notice. Clearly this change
affects no less the status of the publican than the conduct
of his house, and is one which deserves the serious con-
sideration of the magistracy.
———♦
In a long article on ‘ ‘ Wealth ” the London Daily
News impresses upon its readers as a desirable
thing that all should redouble their efforts
towards amassing riches “as the purchasing
power of money is daily lessening, and those
rentiers who fancy they are set up for life now
will find themselves badly left at the expiry of
the present century.” True, 0 sage, and yet
the rentier may be even worse off than you have
foreshadowed ; in fact, he may have ceased to
cumber the earth, but regarded from another
standpoint the morality of your logic is as
doubtful as your economics are vague, the
accumulation of riches does not constitute the
acme of utility, reason or happiness. The men
who arc wanting in what the world terms
“common sense,” that wretched mediocrity of
human capacity which wrongly imagines the
satisfaction of individual monetary cravings, re-
gardless of the feelings or interests of others,
as essential to their own welfare and happiness
are the men whom posterity will enshrine with
honour while the lives of the money-grubbers
will descend into perdition. In the latter days
of the miser’s life his past misdirected energies
come sadly homo to him. Unhonoured and un-
sung he is consigned to oblivion. Happiness
without sympathy is purely chimerical.


[?]
846 Macquarie-street North, Sydney, Nov. 26,1890
My Dear Moorabinda,—
Lord Carington has vanished in a halo of roses over the
horizon, but one is reminded that his gentle influence
still lingers in our midst when one suffers a conversation
with a gilded youth. For his ex-Excellency’s English
was shocking. He very rarely sounded a final “g”—it
was “ goiu’,” “cornin’,” “readin’;” “loss ” was “ lawse,”
“ consequence ” was “ cornsequence ” —I could fill a
dictionary with instances. And the distressin’ part of it
is that the local young man has caught the habit, and he
is“goin’” and “coinin’” and “readin’,” too, and you
dare not point a prophetic finger at Lindley Murray
because the young man would only wave both hands at
Government House—quite • a superior authority, o f
course. What an awful situation we will be in if “ Jersey”
drops his aitohes on the top of the Carington clip !
That indefinable air of unreality which distinguishes
the Sydney Women’s Literary Club, combined with the
fact that the members still impress one as being a
frivolous aggregate, only induced to join from gregarious
motives, are both fully explained by the discovery that
the club was scratched together in a frantic hurry, to
corral the bounding sympathies of Lady “ Jarsey.”
There is a vague idea afloat that literature will be top
dog when Government House, Sydney, receives its new
tenant, and so the club was set going in a hurry, just to
focus scattered ability, and enable the coming Countess
to put her finger on the select little company of Thinkers
whenever she is spoiling for a brainy symposium or a
soulful dinner-party. The idea was a shrewd one, but at
present the “ literary” club betrays its rubble foundation
too plainly.
“ The Queen has made several enquiries as to the con-
dition of Lady Jersey.” So has Sir Henry Parkes, and
both these distinguished people are actuated by the same
anxious motive, “ When will she be strong enough to
’tend to business ?” Meanwhile the Hon- Rupert Leigh,
A.D.C. (the patient’s brother), and a retinue of servants
are sent on months ahead, just to show there’s no decep-
tion, ladies and gentleman.
Sir Henry Wylie Norman, Governor of Bananaland,
leaves Adelaide for London per R.M.S. Parramatta, which
left Sydney on 17th inst. Sir Arthur Palmer reigns in his
stead in the land of sugar-cane, and doubtless nobody
will miss a meal through grieving over the temporary
absence of the stickish, pre-occupied vice-regality-
Governors can always run away and play in the summer-
time when society is under a moral obligation to flee into
the “ mountings.”
Referring to Governors, it is said of one coroneted grass-
widower that since the departure of his lady he has be-
come quite kittenish in his demeanour. At a public ball
given shortly after the departure of his consort, he
gave a joyful little skip as he stood on the dais,
and during the evening, instead of restricting himself to
the orthodox quadrille and lancers made up of the solemn
people present, he plunged into the heterogeneous whirl
of waltzers, while Mother Grundy- dropped her lower jaw
in horror. And the way in which he distributed his
franchise smile on all sorts of people, made Precedent
gnash her teeth.
Of that Governor’s haughty lady the story goes that on
one occasion the presentation bouquet at some spree or
other arriving after the vice-regal party had withdrawn,
the obsequious secretary sent it up to Government House
with his compliments. But behold! it was calmly re-
turned without a word, and the vending florist got it
back at a sacrifice—streamers and all.
The latter-day woman is a strange, fitful creature, filled
with fierce, inconsistent yearnings to reform other people
—mostly men—right off the landscape almost, and yet
continuing to swarm about herself in tight stays, tight
boots, heavy garments, and a weight of pad on top of her
cerebrum. The Suffrage is the latest female fad, and the
most frantic she-supporters of the movement are gener-
ally attached to members of Parliament. A member’s
wife gives the whole pitiful reason why away in the usual
unguarded manner of my sex in a letter to the S.M.
Herald. She says:—“l believe the majority of women
have sufficient intelligence to record their votes, and am
sure in doing so they would return to Parliament men of
true nobility of character, with a less number of obstruc-
tionists, and so prevent the necessity of making and
framing laws after midnight, which has impaired and
shattered the lives of so many able politicians.” The
same old story after all. They want to make sure of
getting the old man home before the milk in the morning.
What an ordinary basis for the great Electoral Reform 1
What tickles your Sappho is the general idea that
when we get the vote our legislators will consist princi-
pally of the good young man who didn’t die, and the
gentleman who never slants anything darker than a
carafe 1 suppose all women over 21 will be allowed a say
at the ballot-box, and though, perhaps, Pope overdid it
when he declared that “ every woman is at heart a rake ”
—still, among the vast horde, a good percentage will
neither teach Sunday-school, nor talk sense, nor feel a
wild desire to plump for a candidate because he has large
feet and believes in confirmation for the young. And as
the vote of the gold-washed, resident ballet-girl, whose
mental horizon is bounded by a bottle of champagne on
one side and a hansom cab on the other, will weigh just
as heavily as the precise casting of the Evangelical matron
who lives by hymn-book, it is by no means assured that
the female vote will invariably put Joseph in. From the
brief sunny experience of your innocent Sappho, she is
inclined to believe that even the most bold, bad man
wouldn’t have to use a butterfly-net to catch Ids match in
petticoats in the very smallest crowd.
Never before in all the nine years of their being have
the Sydney Liedertaefel presented so erotic a card as they
did at their 63rd concert, held at the Centennial Hall,.ou
the moist evening of 17th inst. In the baker's-dozen of
items the majority were of the pulsing and yearning sort,
and if the imposing throng of dress-suits, grouped at the
cedar platform, really meant all the nice tilings they sang
about “Eros,” it’s time somebody talked to them
■seriously. Pretty Frances Saville, in a gown which
•reminded one of a cobweb in a sunset, was one of the
props of the occasion, and sang a valse from “Romeo at
Juliette,” and that most foolish of sickly ballads, “ When
we meet,” in her most silvery manner; Mr. W. Walshe
also lent variety to the evening', and gave tongue to stil
more sentiment with great success. It was a pity, though,
■that this debonnair songster turned an accidental flip-flap
as he was getting off -; the most de.gnge youth doesn t
impress you when he finishes a pathetic effort by sitting
down suddenly with a bang.
When you come to think of it, most songs drone over
what the Russians call “ loboo,” and the “sentiment”
becomes so pronounced in some of them that it is not now
considered good for a girl to sing “ love ” songs except of
the most elementary “ he-pressed-my-hand-fondly ”
description. For which relief much thanks. The modest
maiden immodestly piping forth a burning metaphysica
diagnosis was always more or less of a puzzling anomaly
—besides which a woman generally sings a love-song as if
she were stuffed with sawdust. It might be a butcher’s
bill set to music, and expressions such as “my heart is
burnt like a flame with love,” are rendered as dispassion-
ately as if they were an allusion to pork and apple-sauce.
Now, thank goodness, the full-fledged love-song is voted
the worst feminine form possible, and the passionate
baritone with the floating locks will have Eros all to
himself.
It is rather post-mortem to enthuse over “A Night Off”
at Sydney Criterion, but Mrs. Brough looked so pretty as
Nisbe Babbit, that your Sappho wishes to immortalise
especially a dainty frock with straight skirt, round tucked
bodice, and gigot sleeves in pink cotton, aureole hat lined
witli black velvet and trimmed with peach-blossoms and
pink ribbon. A dinner-dress in sulphur-colour, with
chiffon folds and a spray of yellow asters, was also most
becoming—the taking thing about her dressing that it
was decidedly “jeune fille ” and yet elegant, and the
result was rapture, Besides which, Mrs. B.’s face make-
up was a work of art. With lank Thespiennes an inch
deep in carmine, and scowling through blotches of Indian
ink all over the place, an actress who paints her physiogo-
nomy to look like that of a human being deserves the
thanks of the community.
At the Sydney Royal the other evening a lady fell for-
ward on her face while descending the d,c. steps, and I
knew the accident had happened that I had been waiting
for. When will women see the danger of leaving their
dresses trailing at the back on steep, crowded stairways
One heavy masculine foot on your tail and you are
precipitated on to your nose, no matter how wildly you
clutch at space. By-the-bye, when this particular lady
came a cropper the titter that went up all round spoke
volumes for the innate courtesy of human nature.
One gurgling gasp of rapture, coupled with an admira-
tion point as tall as a telegraph pole, could scarcely
express the success of “ The Merry Wives of Windsor,’’
staged at Her Majesty’s on 22nd inst., amid the plaudits
of a full house. There were five acts, and I wished
there were ten, for one felt loth to part with such a
larky lot as Mistress Ford and Mistress Rage and their
victim the “ greasy knight ” who looked like a captive
balloon when he got on his knees. And the colour-
contrasts all through were as brilliantly harmonious
as the front view of a parrokeet. Kate Bishop’s arclneo-
logical gown, of pale electric grey velvet brocade, could
scarcely have had a better foil than the crimson velvet
over-dress with velvet brocade jupe, sleeves slashed over
puffings of white that Watts-Phillips sported as Mistress
Page ; Bessie Rignold, as Sweet Annie Page, wore, in the
first four acts, a very pale-grey gown trimmed with bands
of blue-grey velvet; and in the last act a fairy frock of
cobweb-colour threaded with silver, a filmy cream scarf
floating prettily from the shoulders. The fairies’ dance
in the last act is charmingly done, and if some of the
adult fays resemble feather pillows and gambol like
sheep learning the sailor’s hornpipe—the rest, especially
a fay who high-kicks on the prompt side, clothed princi.
pally in a radiant glance —are more like sprites than
usual. And Harry Hoy te’s-that. is to say, ankles—
clothed in skin-fit scarlet are enough to make Mrs-
Potter come round to borrow sawdust from him.
Alluding to ankles, why will women, when they wish to
fish their hems out of : the dust, raise them almost to the
knees back and front? It is after dark, of course, that you
see this at its raciest among the matrons hurrying out of
the theatre, who forget the fateful lamp-post gleaming
behind them, and plough along while loudly expressing
their disgust at the revelations of the “ korus girl.” Unless
you are ploughing through a bog, the slightest hitch
suffices to keep your swaying draperies out of the gutter,
but many a time have I seen a blushing husband cast an
imploring helpless glance at the two revealed shins of his
careful pansy blossom, who looked as if she had gone back
with a bounce to the days when they took tucks in her
clothes. When she has ballooned her skirts up in this
way, and is standing perched on the kerb waiting for the
tram, a woman looks for all the world like a hen on a
roost.
Myra Kemble got a tremendous welcome on her re-
appearance in that giddy French farce, “ Dr. Bill,*'
produced for the first time at Sydney “Cri.” on 22nd
inst., and it is no wonder that she avows herself so fond
of “ dear old Sydney ” since “ dear old Sydney ” so
obviously returns the compliment. As Mrs. Hortom
Myra is charmingly frocked right through, and the
appealingness of her Paris-built glories makes the
übiquitous female in nun’s veiling, who is in every dress,
circle, a prey to fitful melancholy. In the first act she
announces herself in a Pnncesse dress of grey woollen
made with a pronounced train, the front of the skirt in
pleats ; the full bodice with revers of pale-blue velvet i
plate hat wreathed in grey shaded feathers, a crimson
en-tout-cas supplying a necessary touch of colour. In
act 2 Miss Kemble sports a tea gown in ivory
delaine flowered in electric grey over an electric
blue front covered with cream spotted net and
looped across with cream-spotted ribbons, and two tiny
little bronze shoes that are much in evidence ; in act 3 a
dainty cream doth with a border in which pink pre-
dominated, the bodice having a yoke of grey silk, a hem
of grey silk appearing at the foot of the skirt ; narrow
sash of grey silk finished with pink pom-poms; the bodice-
finished at the waist with bands similar to the border ;;
the full cream sleeves having grey and pink cuffs; cream
hat, cream feathers and ribbon, flesh-pink gloves and
diamond brooches and bangles ; and in this act Miss-
Temple’s morning dress of cream mull with yoke and full
sleeves of iris silk covered with fine white lace was very
pretty. But Pattie Brown’s chronologically correct—
since she is impersonating a ballet girl off the chain—
lobster costume picked out with guipure, quite shocked
the optic nerves of your subdued Sappho.
Paling and Co. are showing a very taking novelty at
their piano-rooms, George-street-a piano with a long
shelf in the upper top divided into throe, where music
can be conveniently stowed. The usefulness of such am
arrangement is obvious—especially when it is proved that
the handy music-holder acts as a sounding-board to the
piano. The “Victor" piano, and those of Nehel and
Leiohleiter, are the only ones that sport this advantage,
for which only a few pounds over the usual price is
charged. Paling’s Xmas “Annual” has a very pretty
caver this year—waratahs, actinotus, and Xmas
coloured to the life. The contents will include “Down
went M‘Ginty,” “List to the Convent Bells,” and “A
Curl from my Baby’s Head,” which is also issued in sheet
form.
“ Under distinguished patronage ” (Admiral Sir Charles
Precedent Scott, Mayor Burdekin, &c.) the officers of
11.M.5. Cordelia, assisted by a full chorus of “society
songsters give a performance of Byron’s burlesque of
“ Ali Baba,” at Sydney Opera House, on 2nd December, in
aid of the Children’s Hospital, Glebe Point. Prices, the
professional five, three, and one. The box-plan for this
attractive charity show is now open at Nicholson’s.
They must be going to start a New Zealand Cup, as
Admiral Scott has signified that be will take a covey of
three vessels to Auckland for Krishmish. Or is he too
sulky to stay in Sydney and pull bon-bon crackers with
Mayor Burdekin ?
Judge and Mrs. Wilkinson gave a very successful
ecclesiastical party “to meet the Bishop in the grounds
of their residence, Hereford House, on 15th inst. Refresh-
ments were daintily set forth in the conservatory, and the
day was perfect. All the Bishopscourt people were
present, as also were Mrs. Burdekin, Rev. Canon Kemmis,
Lieutenant Pullen, and many more.
The nursemaids of Brighton (Victoria) were stirred to
their boot-soles over the grandness of the recent wedding
of Miss Speight—daughter of Mr. R. Speight (Victorian
Railway Commission) - and Mr. Conway-Gordon, of
Mildura, son of Colonel Gordon, of Simla, India, which
took place in the local church. The principal lady
adorned the sacrifice in fawn tailor-built checks, small
toque hat covered in cream feathers and a bouquet of
cream roses ; her two bridesmaids (Miss Nellie and Miss
Alice Speight) in cream serge with bouquets of blush
roses. Breakfast was held in a marquee erected on the
lawn at “ Glenroy Park,” and the usual reception was
gone through. Honeymoon on the Blue Mountains.
Sydney Tattersall’s Club hold their annual race-meeting
at Randwick on December 27 and the Ist of January. The
steeplechase will be run on the second day.
The very latest way to garnish dessert dishes backs up
the prevailing rage for the tout en sui'e, and is very
artist o in effect. Oranges are arranged on tiger-lilies,
yellow jasmine, buttercups, sunflowers; peaches are a
poem heaped among blush roses; cherries may lie on red
geranium; brown and yellow pears would look like a
dream if backed up by autumn leaves. At a local dinner-
party the other evening, the oranges were hid among
roses, but the flowers were too pale and the effect was
spoilt. The correct caper is to have your garnishings a
daylight match.
From the S.M. Herald :
A WIDOW Lady would like a quiet HOME, with
elderly bachelor, as Housekeeper. M.A., Herald
Office.
Quite Arcadian, isn’t it? But if any helpless elderly
bachelor who replies to this simple appeal isn’t prepared
to strike his colours and tack up to the altar within a
fortnight, it would be better that he hired a man-eating
jaguar to pour out his coffee rather than the lone lorn
creature specified above.
Messrs. Slade and Co., of Bathurst, are issuing a rather
nice waltz, composed by S. A. Thompson, under the title
of “ Enchantment.” People who like to play new dance-
music and prefer something easily committed to memory
will hail its appearance, since it is both simple and
But why didn’t the composer give it another name ? In
this age of sham sentiment a valse with a sickly-sweet
title such as “First Kiss” or “He Hugged Me in My
Dreams” is always sure to take.
Have you ever studied the effect of dress on women’s
manners? That is what I have been doing. Catch a
charmer in a tea-gown (this sounds like the introduction
to a cookery conundrum, doesn’t it?), which is a degage
garment even in its stateliest and most be-whaleboned
movements, and she will always be more or less degagd, en
mite. She will 101 l on the sofa in preference to sitting up
in a chair ; the exigencies of the gown require that her
shoes and hose be daintily-beaded kid and openwork silk,
so she really doesn’t mind very much if the flounce does
work up just a little bit. And dress affects the morals as
well as the manners. It is a fact that a big-plumed hat
and a very dashing cloak once so ate into a woman’s soiJ
that she eloped desperately with an opera-singer to relieve
the feelings engendered by that hat. When the cloak
wore out and the feathers moulted and she bought a rink
collar and a sober bonnet, the better nature of the
wearer of stiff linen at once asserted itself, and she
left her Leander on the spot. Then every observant per.
son must have noticed that a girl buttoned up to the
throat, and the same girl in shoulder-straps and bouquet
are not the same individual. I heard a puzzled man
remark once confidentially to another: “Look at Miss
Blank. Meet her in a ball-dress and she—well, she simply
melts as you approach her, but meet her with her bonnet
on and she freezes even your ‘how d’ye do ?’ ” Don’t you
know lots of girls like that? The decolette acts like
champagne upon them, and they don’t regain their nor-
mal condition until it’s hung up on the hook in the ward-
robe. Of course some may assert that the woman whose
moral being parts Its hair in the centre, so to speak, would
not buy demoralising clothing in the first place, and that
it is only those who have a leaning to frivolity who fafl
into the trap, but I believe that, at some time or other,
every woman has been under the baneful influence of
clothes, and they have made her say or do something
foreign to her nature. Else why is “cook” an almost
unapproachable being when she has her Sunday best on ?
After a long and careful study of Mrs. Potter in the
robes of Sestoo, which reveal a lot of what is generally
covered by the finishing flounce, your Sappho has to
point out that the Priestess walks duck-footed and turns
In her rosy toes like an emu all the time. The left pedal
■especially is always broadside-on to the house, and when
she runs down the stage one can’t help noticing that
this transatlantic daisy puts her heels down first, in
defiance of the very A B C of walking.
Yours affectionately,
SAPPHO SMITH.
The Bulletin has received from Mr.
Eundall Mann, of Leicester-street, Carlton,
Melbourne, some most admirable instantaneous
photos, of the finish of the Austral bicycle-race
last Saturday.
With reference to a paragraph in portion
of to-day’s issue of The Bulletin, which was
written under a misapprehension generally cur-
rent, and altogether attributable to the im-
perfect reporting of the daily press, Aider-
man George Withers, ex-M.F. (of Withers
and Callaghan, Sydney), wishes it to be
known that the charge made in the N.S.W.
Assembly by Mr. Edmunds, M.L.A., against
a Mr. Withers in no way applies to or concerns
him (Alderman Withers), but is understood to
apply to another person whom he is no way con-
nected with or related to. And this he says merely
in justice to his own reputation and without the
slightest desire to impugn the character of his
namesake, whom he leaves to fight his own battle.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Theatre R0ya1....,....,..., “Hero and Leander,”
Her Majesty's “ Merry Wives of Windsor."
Criterion. “Doctor Bill."
Cyclorama Gettysburg.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess’s “ The Gondoliers.”
New Bijou “ The Jilt,”
Opera House “Boccaccio.”
Theatre R0ya1.,....,...,... “Arrah-na-Pogue.”
Alexandra “ For Love and Life.”
Prior to the present revival at Her
Majesty's, it is said that “The Merry Wives of
W indsor ” has only been played once in Sydney.
The reason is evident: Falstaffs are born, not
made. The only actor, resident or visiting, that
the writer can call to mind with any personal
qualifications for the part is Bartlett, who played
Pistol in George Rignold’s first Australian pro-
duction of “Henry Fifth.” As for William
Rignold’s impersonation, why, he is simply
Shakespeare’s creation; the great, gross, jovial,
sunny humourist, just as every lover of the most
loveable character in all literature has insensibly
imaged him. In fact, it seems difficult to remem-
ber that he is playing a part and uttering
memorised sentences. One is inclined to think
that the actor is simply revealing his true self,
filling his natural place in a less conventional
period. With such a Falstaff the play could not
possibly be a failure, but even had he been some-
what weaker, still would it have been compara-
tively successful, for one would almost imagine
that the company had been specially selected for
the representation of this comedy. Geo. Rig-
nold’s Ford is a fine performance ; Harry Jewett is
an excellent Parson Evans ; the Slender of Harry
Hoyte is almost faultless, and the Doctor Caius of
Frank Ilarcourt is the best thing we have yet
seen from him. Lots of other people deserve
favourable mention, but we are running short of
adjectives, and as the piece is good for even a
longer run than the management will be able to
afford it, we shall have lots of chances of putting
jam on the vacant plates. The scenery by Clint
and Yaughan is very good, particularly that of
the Inn's best room, and the music of Eugarde is
appropriate. By the way, Manager Rignold has
offered the use of his house to the Strike Relief
Fund.
** * *
The popularity of Myra Kemble was made
very evident not only by tlitr tremendous ovation
she received on her re-appearance at Sydney
Criterion, but also from the fact that most of the
reserved circle and stall seats were booked for
nearly a fortnight ahead ere the curtain went up
on “Dr. Pill ” for the first time. This is a farcical
comedy whose plot is not profound, but whose
complications are numerous, its situations highly
ridiculous and withal so Frenchy that the unfet-
tered and spicy suggestiveness of the original, by
Albert Carre, can be easily imagined. Hamilton
Aide, who Englished the play, seems hardly to
have made the most of all the possibilities left
open by Mrs. Grundy, but, nevertheless, has
dished up much food for laughter. The first act
is quiet and a bit talky, but the entrance of
Pattie Browne, as Miss Fauntleroy, of the
Frivolity Theatre (her only appearance, we regret
to say) to consult the retired doctor and reformed
rake, Dr. William Browne (Brough), who gave up
raking and prescribing on his marriage, and
their indulgence in a reminiscent!al kangaroo
dance, described to the entering family as
St. Vitus’s, and joined in by them as a
means of cure, lowers the curtain on a convulsed
house. The second act makes the piece, it is full
of life and never-flagging fun, but the last act is
chiefly devoted to unravelling the tangled
domestic skein, and, therefore, as in the case of
nearly all pieces of this character, fails fully to
sustain hilarity. Myra Kemble’s part as Mrs.
Horton, ex-actress and wife of a police-inspector,
is not a particularly good one, and is pitched in a
key scarcely attuned to the dainty actress’s
refined and quiet style, but she was very nervous
on first night, and probably ere now has thrown
into it the dash necessary to lift it into pro-
minence. Robert Brough, who looked remarkably
like the J. C. Williamson of seventeen years
ago, is not well placed as “Dr. Bill.” It is not
easy to point out flaws in his performance, but
lie ‘lacks the glibness, the ease and volatility
necessary for the enactment of a part which
belongs to actors of the Mathews-Wyndham
school. The well-meaning, intermeddling fatuous
father-in-law of George Anson is the performance
of the play. He hasn’t many lines, hasn't a great
deal of business, but, without forcing himself on
the notice of the audience, is nevertheless, while
on, always the dominant personality. The baggy
old mother-in-law of Annie Taylor is simply
beautiful, and if Cecil Ward, as George Webster,
overdid the idiotic dude business, he erred on the
right side. In parts of lesser magnitude, E. C.
Corlesse, as the jealous and irascible superin-
tendent of police, Emma Temple as Mrs. Brown,
Brenda Gibson as Jenny Firman, and Rose
Brandrarn as Ellen, arc all right. It may be con-
fidently prognosticated that the doctor has hung
out his shingle for a long and successful season.
** * *
Despite the efforts of the pink-note-cold-
luncheon critics to stimulate a faded public appe-
tite for forced theatrical produce, “the physical
drama,” as exemplified by “Hero and Leander,
has not revived the glories of the previous Potter-
Bellow season at Sydney Royal. On a second
hearing absurdities previously only suspected
become fully apparent. For instance, the insist-
ance with which Naukleros (Hans Phillips), the
pandar and parasite of Leander, bewails the
bashfulness of that brazen personage, and
the inconsistency with which Hero, who is
the heroine, nightly stands at her _ window
in the immrd-throim glare of a lime-hgM
moon and declaims: “How dark the night,
my laump alone sheds fortli a glimmer on the
dusky air,” or words to that effect. I hen
Leander accomplishes the first trip across the
Hellespont arrayed in a lengthy mantle, of cat-
skins in order that he may not prejudice, oy
premature disclosure, the revelations of his s^
tional washed - ashore - bare - limb - skin - tight-
sincrlet-and blue-seaweed-trimmings act. Many
people would feel much relieved if High-pries
Sass would cut out a few of his references
to the “outraged gods.”’ The last six
nights of the season will be filled up by tw
nights of “Frou-Frou,” one night of Davi
Garrick,” one night of “She Stoops to Conquer,
and two of “La Tosca.” It would surely ha'
been better policy to run “Frou-1 rou rig *
through, particularly as Mrs, J*. has just recei'U
a new case of dresses, from "Worth, of Baris.
Sfc $6
The hungry man has removed, at the
instance of ids' doctor, away from the chill airs
and fresh fish of Bondi into Sydney, where wmas
are warmer and “sprats’ move plentiful. Hen


Oeaf Forty Years.
The description of a simple remedy, by which a
complete cure of deafness and noises in the head of
KOuty YEARS’ STANDING has just been effected,
"dll be sent free to anyone who applies to
J. H. NICHOLSON,
175 W>u, tam Street, Melbourne
A GHOST
is not a photograph, nor a photo, a ghost—but a good photo, is a
true reflection of tho original. For high-art photos, go to the
London Palace of Art, 10 Park-street, Sydney. Country photographers’ work from dovelopement
t o completion executed at lowest prices Bromides a speciality, Staff of artists kept for working up-
Notice to Advertisers.
Owing to the unprecedented demand for adver
tising space in the Xmas Edition of The Bulletin,
we are reluctantly obliged to decline any further
advertisements for that particular issue.
occupies premises in King-street—next door to a
pie-shop—where he can be seen pursuing his
studies (cookery-books are his favourite reading)
for a shilling, .while it cost twenty-six pence to see
him at the Aquarium. We don’t mind betting
that the man’s fast utterly ruins him for life. The
spectacle of a man drawing a quart of blood from
his own forearm would be far less revolting than
the sight of this dreary and brutal fast.
** * *
At Coogee Aquarium last Saturday Annie
Shields, a shapely, long-haired, and strong-jawed
lady, made a sensational descent at lightning
speed from the dome to the Club-house hanging
by her teeth to a traveller on an inclined wire.
Lilian, the child-shot, split apples on a dog’s fore-
head with an accuracy that must have charmed
the unwinking canine; and little Ethel walked
the slack-wire. Captain Jennings, weak and out
of condition, was defeated in the foil contest by
DO points to 16 by the skilful Professor Seguy, a
vouhger arid more agile man. Next Monday
(Deo. i) Mr. Larmour gives a grand entertainment
of which the gross proceeds will be devoted to the
Strike Fund,
%* & #
To-day (Thursday) t.he Cyclorama devotes
its entire proceeds to the . Strike Relief Fund'.
Special lectures wilbbe given, new effects shown,
J. H. Rainford and a leading London amateur
will recite. • c
*& * &
The usual concert will be given at Bondi
Aquarium on Sunday afternoon. On Saturday
Captain Jennings meets J. Donovan in a grand
mounted sword contest for £lOO and the cham-
pionship of the world. Jennings is wroth, and
the Irish blood of Donovan is up, so fun may be
expected.
iff * # *
The “ Boccaccio ” revival, at Melbourne
Opera House, is, in two respects, a more pleasing
performance of this rather stale opera than the
city has sampled for years. Nellie Stewart’s re-
appearance in the name-part gains in effect by
association with Fanny Liddiard as her student-
chum, in place of the usual thiok-ankled tenor,
whose presence has hitherto been a smudge upon
the illusion. The male kind of Leonetto was
always a scraggy, incongruous weed amongst a
cluster of flowers, tolerable only from A musician's
paint of view, and altogether objectionable to the
worshipper of human outline. Clara Merivale,
as Fiametta'—a sweet contrast of golden wig and
dark eyes—is another striking improvement on
previous arrangements. Her love-passages with
Boccaccio lend a poetical glamour to the whole
show, and although the part may have been better
sung the rising generation has never seen it so
harmoniously or sympathetically played. For
the rest, Snazelle and Gourlay have rounded off
their first attempts and added some smart
bits of business without relinquishing others that
have become tiring. The telephone joke, for
example, wouldn’t be missed. A Miss Esdaile,
vice Miss Young, contributes a respectable high
soprano to the musical side of the entertainment,
and the hungry amorousness of Lambertuccio’s
wife is represented with considerable breadth by
one Bessie Vaughan, who sings like a fog-horn
but has something of the same low comedy
manner that made Mrs. Raymond a feature of the
Strand Theatre in days of old. None of the
musical effects soared above the average on
Saturday night, but “ He is the Prince” fetched
them as usual. This large burst of song is helped
along, however, by the Prince’s haughty inanity
and Snazelle’s conscientious grovelling at his feet.
Woodfield realises the royal-blooded person
all the time, but his art is wasted upon
an Isabella like Lena Salinger, the one
very weak spot in a strong company. It is hard
to sec any sense in Lena’s acting of the character,
whilst her smile is too obvious entirely. It haunts
us still. An .unrehearsed item of human interest
was supplied by Miss Liddiard, who had the luck
to fall over a rose-bud, or something, and strike
the stage with a dull thud. She recovered from
the concussion and got through her part all right,
but the fact that the fair contralto had to bind up
her wounds became subsequently apparent through
her outer covering, and caused the salt tear of
compassion to gather in many an eye. “Boc-
caccio ” is to run for twelve nights.
¥£ $£ Sff
Meamvhile “The Gondoliers” keeps the
Princess’s nearly full for five nights of the week
arid quite full on Saturdays, and as the present
company seems the best that could be got together
under the circumstances, there is no further occa-
sion to remark that it might be better for being
improved. Next Saturday a new Duchess of
Plaza-Toro will have to take Maggie Moore’s
place, a change which cannot make much differ-
ence, anyhow.
* * #
Felix Tanner, a long faster, has been en-
gaged from Monday last to live upon Yan Yean
water for the orthodox forty days at Kreitmayer’s
Museum. Manager Phil. Stuart has a solemn
agreement with Felix, the terms being untold gold
if the feat is accomplished, and a hard, uncom-
promising “nix” if it isn’t. Should the faster
exhibit symptoms of wanting a steak his keeper
will glide forward brandishing a parchment, and
hiss in his ear : “ Starve now, or starve hereafter,
ha ! ha !” However, as the Yan Yean water is full
of nourishing slimy monsters, Felix ought to make
fiesh during the fast.
** * *
“Impulse,” at the Bijou, is still preach-
ing a polished sermon to the scantily-draped
matrons who run after strange idols when their
•awful Heaven-sent buggers can’t keep an eye on
Ahem. The theatre’s reputation for melting love-
scenes has made it the favourite resort of married
ladies and their other fellows, but certain of the
latter arc disposed to curse the night they went
to see “Impulse” and allowed an incipient,
giddy attachment to become platonicised for ever
by Titheradgc’ s warning remarks. Some plays do
much to prevent overcrowding in the Divorce
Dourt, and others plant a spiked iron railing, as
•t were, around innocent virtue. Wo know a
man whose evil designs were frustrated by
Virginius.” At the commencement of the per-
formance ho was all but a conqueror, but when
the curtain fell his fair young companion
requested him to put her in an omnibus, and be
henceforth a stranger. There was a holy sadness
l n her eyes as she said farewell. He was mad,
however, and to this very day the mention
of “Virginius” causes him to break-out in 1
blasphemy. Moral lessons are thrown away on
men of that stamp.
*# * *
“Impulse” is to be replaced oy “The
Jilt ” on Saturday, This Boucicaultian comedy
com'es almost as a novelty in Melbourne, having
been played for six nights only during the grand
old boy’s visit, nearly six years ago. It was in
“ The Jilt ” that he trotted out his fancy vision,
Louise Thorndyke, whose acting, by the way,
paralysed nobody, except her admirer. On the
present interesting occasion Mrs. Brough will
appear in the name-part.
fit m * *
At the Royal, where “ The English Rose ”
has well-nigh withered off its stalk, they put up
‘ ‘ Arrah-na-Pogue ” on Saturday—probably to
show how superior is old Irish drama to the new.
Maggie Moore, with Grattan Riggs, can be
trusted to make things gee as much as possible
under the circumstances, and shure there isn’t a
Home Ruler in the city who will stop away from
hearing “The Wearing of the Green” sung as
Only one artist can sing it at all, at all!
* * * -*
A change is due at the Alexandra on the
same date. “Robbery Under Arms” has been
heaping sborU upoU the police-force with good
financial results, but Starlight and bis attendant
heroes are about to retire to the Wild dingo’s lair,
or going hunting the melancholy rnopoke, or chasing
the fleet iguana, or something, so as to leave the
stage clear for “For Love and Life.” This is a
brand new drama by Alfred Darn pier, and pro-
fesses to be of weird hypnotic interest. The hero,
presumably, will run on the lines of Professor
Kennedy, or, perhaps, the villain will go around 1
stiffening his victims and luring them on to eat
onions in their mesmeric sleep until they pull
themselves together and breathe him to death.
** * *
The Victoria Hall goes along gently, and
the Gaiety has been re-opened by Frank Clark
with a chestnutty company that seemed to hit the
mark on Saturday night. The Cyclorama still
flourishes at two-shilling prices, but the demand
for circus has died away, and theory of the dread-
fully funny clown is heard no more. On the other
hand, there is better business with Madame Patey
at the Town Hall, where oratorio will shortly
supplant the comparative frivolity of ballad-
concerts.
»# # #
Clement Scott, in a lecture entitled
“Twenty Years at the Play,” or something to
that effect, has been giving the guileless Briton
taffy by the ton. “There is no footing in
London*” gushes the Daily TEIKoApH critic,
“ for any artist or any dramatic Avork that is not
of the very best. Our standard is very high,- but
we are proud to maintain it, and let it be. known
that to make a success in' London is the etlty
(? ambition) of the greatest dramatic artists in the
world.” This is altogether too rough to be
devoured greedily by any intelligent Australian.
That London is the best market for the best stage
work goes without saying, but Scott’s lofty asser-
tion that poor stuff does not pay, and pay well, even
at some of the West End theatres, may be dis-
missed with a snort. It were scarcely fair, per-
haps, to quote the average performance of J. L.
Toole’s company as an argument to the contrary,
because the antique comedian thrives in a small
way on the fact that he is J. L. T., and what he
does, or how he does it, are not much considered
by his faithful adherents. But in the matter of
melodrama we are constantly supplied with proof
that the London standard is not high. “The
English Rose” has by this time passed its
eightieth night at the Adelphi, and is being
triumphantly carted round the provinces by a
second company. Meanwhile, its reception at
Melbourne Royal has fully borne out The Bul-
letin’s opinion that the play is not first-class at
at any point, nor better than badly-woven fustian
for a couple of acts.
** * *
A small, unrehearsed incident Avas inserted
lately in the play of “Camille,” at New York
Opera House. The heroine was dying of con-
sumption, and was just about to fall back a corpse
in the arms of her distracted lover. Her eyes
had that fixed, glassy, far-off look which always
comes upon the lady who is in her last agonies on
the stage; she was pale and gaunt and haggard,
and her hair hung in heavy, dank masses over her
shoulders. Now and then a sob broke the convul-
sive heaving of her breath, and she shivered
wearily as if the icy fingers of Death were upon
her. Jnst here, a woman in the audience laughed,
and the dying heroine sat up with indignation in
her eye. Then she got on her feet with sudden
vigour. “Any woman,” she thundered, “who
would laugh during such a scene as this is utterly
void of any sense of delicacy or refinement of
feeling. She is totally lacking in the sentiments
of common humanity, and is fit only to appreciate
the .donkey in * Uncle Tom’s Cabin.’” When she
had relieved herself of these remarks she fell
back on her couch, and assumed her rapt, angelic
air over again, and presently her troubled spirit
passed away.
** * *
The Rev. Charles Clark continues to
lecture to large audiences in the Maoriland North
Island, where he will soon have passed nearly three
months lecturing almost every night. He will not
reach the South Island before the new year.
Carlyle Smythe relieves the Much-Travelled of
many managerial cares,
** * *
With Beauty at the prow and R. S.
Smythe, who is no Adonis, at the helm, it is not
surprising that Madame Marian Burton’s com-
pany are charming the ears and eyes of the Maori-
landers. The popular contralto gave six con-
certs in Wellington, to which capital she is to
return for the purpose of singing at the Christmas
concerts of the Harmonic society. Miss Col-
bonrne-Baber, Stockwell, the tenor, Bradley, the
pianist, and Horace Poussard are, we learn, in
good form, and the French fiddler frequently gets
as many bouquets as the English contralto.
At Poverty Point.
James Cathcart is dangerously ill at Melbourne—car-
buncle.
The masher, Terriss, has resumed his place as leading
“juvenile” in Irving's company. Terriss must have
struck the happy medium between “spooning” and not
“spooning” Ellen Terry.
Buchanan had a hand jn the manufacture of four plays
running at fashionable London theatres when the mail
left. There was a time, some twenty years ago, when
AVatts-Phllllps had his name on several playbills at once.
.Someone returns Spurgeon’s attack on “ Judah " and its
patronage by the clerics, by reminding the reverend gen-
tleman that on the birth of his twins he danced giddily at
Rosherville Gardens. This- may or may not be true. It
is easy to sing out: “ Who murdered his fat aunt?” but
Spurgeon’s words and actions are prompted chiefly by
desire for advertisement,
Henry Irving is coming to Australia, after all. They’ll
swear he imitates Bellew when he arrives. Probably he’ll
bring “ Ravenswood ” along. There seems to be a regular
Scott revival now. J. C. Williamson has secured the
Australian rights of “Ivanhoe.”
Mark Twain recently received £12,000 in royalties from
one of his plays. His wit begins to be weighted down
with money-bags.
Sir Edward Guineas, who floated to knighthood on the
froth of brew-vats, will purchase, it is said, Savernake
FOrest for £700,000 from Lord Ailesburv, Dolly Tester’s
husband.
Antoinetta Link, whose appearance with Tenor Pala-
dini in the principal roles of “Lohengrin” and “Aida,”
under the management of William Lyster, at Melbourne
Opera House, will be generally remembered, will make a
platform re-appearance in Sydney at Christinas with one
of the musical societies.
The Hiss Paton and Lady Lennox who espoused “ Joe”
Wood were, we are informed, one and the same individual.
Thanks. We cannot be expected to be so well up in the
shady side of operatic life as anyone who has been 50
years in the third row of the ballet.
Sarah Bernhardt is announced to leave Paris on 9th
January on a two years’ tour.
At a late date, Emelie Melville, Verdi and Vernon Reid
were playing “ Carmen,” etc., at the Drill Hall, Capetown.
Thorne and Herbert, the comedians, have taken over
Emma Chambers’ South African company and take it
through Pretoria. She goes to England with Mr. Mush (?)
to bring out another company. •
Sarah Bernhardt will dye her hair and tinge her skin
for Cleopatra, and Gamier will be her Antony. It will be
played in six tableaux, the third of which will exhibit the
terrace of the palace: in it will be used neither wings,
back-cloths, h'Or draperies, simply an immense round
panorama, showing the public square of Memphis with its
pyramids and palm-trees in the distance. The costumes
used in the Paris production number 400, and represent
three nationalities—Medean, Roman and Egyptian. Sarah
will wear five costumes, representing a' lot of money.
“ Bohadil,” by Searelle and AValter Parke, has been put
into rehearsal tD succeed “TheßlacK Rover ” at London
Globe.
Rosbif: Miss Slimlim has made a big hit in her new
play. Sosidge (cynically): Hum! French dresses. Rosbif:
No; native nakedness.
Lilian Carew, a lately-arrived English comic opera
singer, plays Cinderella in Sydney Royal pantomime, and
J. R. Greville, Johnny Gourlay, Geo. Leitoh, Harry Ben-
ham (his return to the stage), John Forde, Lena Salinger,
Vera Patey, a Miss Galbraith, also newly-arrived, and Alice
Johns will assist. Frank Emery, the stage manager, will
be clown.
Journalist Duff, better known in theatrical circles as
“ Whyte Tye ”of the Sydney L.V. Gazette and “ Percy
Flarge ” of the Sunday Hews, died recently of a pul-
monary complaint.
N.Y. Tribune writes of a popular preacher whose dis
courses are enlivened by Harry F. Winsman, the siffleur,
who w histles “ Nearer, my God, to Thee,” with variations,
beautifully. Moses crossing the Red Sea on the slack
wire would be a pleasing innovation.
Dealing with Fay Templeton’s wonderful display o
limb, a Hew' York writer says: “Five out of th*e 16 pairs
Of tights promised by her advance man were actually dis-
played by Miss Templeton, whose facilities for exhibiting
this article of clothing are so much above the average of
her sex that the suppression of the other 11 was a subject
of poignant regret among the gentlemen in the anatomical
seats.”
Mrs. Agnes Robertson Boucicault, the guest in New
York of Charles Wheatleigh, the first Australian
“Shaughraun,” and now a member of the Daly Company,
says of her whilom husband : “ I would rather,” she said,
“ have the world believe that he was mad than that he
w r as bad, for he had many good, loveable traits, and I only
remember him as 1 once knew him in the old days.” The
lady is said to be rather poor.
J. L. Toole is “ much amazed ” that certain Australian
journals should have said nasty things about him
“ because the newspapers have occasionally had to
associate his name with that of a certain exalted person-
age ” (the Prince of Wales, we presume.) In Australia a
man is judged by the company he keeps.
The Alice Rees singing with the Carl Rosa Light Opera
Company is not Mrs. Max Vogrich. The Vogrichs are in
America.
Elsie Cameron, the well-known contralto singer and
actress, of the D’Oyley Carte Co., is the Phinn’s new vocal
star. She sang, at the Melbourne musical reception to Sir
William Robinson, one of his latest compositions, called
“The Day Will Come.”
Lusoomhe Searelle tells the London Topical Times that
he’s been shipwrecked twice—once through his piano-
playing, which caused the captain and crew to neglect
their duty. He also states that he is “covered with
spear-w'ounds received in fights with the natives in the
early days of the Palmer goldfield, in Queensland. I
have a large cicatrice on the back of my leg. I got this at
a place called Hell’s Gate, on the road from Cooktown, in
a narrow defile of rocks where the blacks used to wait for
us, and we had to fight for our lives. They, however,
preferred the Chinese to Europeans. Once the blacks
caught a dozen of them, put them in pens, fattened them
on rice, and demolished them one at a time. The reason
of their preference for the Celestials was that their diet,
being principally composed of rice and vegetables, they
were more palatable than Europeans fed on meat.” Good
old yarn, let us embrace thee. How oft have we met
before!
A New Zealand paper discriminatingly says that
Toole is only a faint and far-off copy of Robson, and that
his acting, largely dependent on facial contortion and
nauseous reiterations in an atrocious Cockney accent
(likewise loose pants), is buffoonish.
Frank Weston, of Wizard Oil fame, is now in Adelaide,
where he is compelled to manufacture his goods on
account of high import duties.
Charles Cartwright and Olga Nethersole, under engage-
ment to W. and G., open at the new and, as yet, nameless
theatre in Castlereagh-street on Boxing Night, probably
in “The Idler,” the play by Haddon Chambers which
Mrs. Langtry wouldn’t have. The fair Olga is the genius
discovered by AY. S. Gilbert; her part of Vashti, in
“Judah,” is now taken by Winifred Emery. Cartwright
also plays Cyrus Blenkarn, AA’illard’s creation, in “The
Middleman.” By the way, the managerial pack is about
to be reshaken, and this time W. and M. may be expected
to come out together.
Dion Boucicault said shortly before his death:—“ln
every great character there are three characters—the
man as God made him, as he is to himself, naked; the
man as he is to his family, in his dressing-gown, not
entirely real; the man as he is to the world, with every-
thing on. Hamlet, in his soliloquies, is the first man ; in
the presence of Horatio he is the second man ; to the
courtiers he is the third man.” Vide Oliver Wendell
Holmes in the “ Autocrat.”
Sara Bernhardt opens her ten weeks’ Australian tour at
Melbourne Princess’ on June 1, probably in “Cleopatra.”
One of her costumes for that play cost £7OO. She brings
an entire company, forty strong (though otherwise weak,
it is said) her own scenery, appointments and costumes. ’
M. Margueritte, the French novelist, has a fancy for
giving English (?) names to his heroines. One of his latest
creations is “Miss Clara Bellic,” which seems a queer
name for any spinster.
The A’ictorian Orchestra has for some time been a sink-
ing ship, and now the rats are leaving it. Opposition in
the form of the “Melbourne Orchestra” of 100 per-
formers, to appear also as a full military band, has been
organised for popular promenade-concerts. Several of
the leading instrumentalists, some of them old guardsmen
imported by Cowen, have joined.
Mr. AVilliam Ryan, a very old-time actor of the G. V.
Brooke era, turned up unexpectedly in Sydney Equity
Court on Tuesday ns witness in a will-case. He is
white-haired and venerable-looking now. The last time
the writer saw him was some 30 years ago when William
was called upon at a short notice to play the chief part
in a big play, O. \ r . Brooke being much “ indisposed.”
“ Telemachus,” of the Argus, says
“ The modern Aphrodite we dare not paint.’ 1
Why need we ? She attends to that business
herself.
An aboriginal, applying to a Sydney
inspector of police for work, was asked for a refer-
ence, and at once pulled out a three-months’ dis-
charge from Wollongong Gaol.
Look at the Samsons lately slaughtered by
Delilah : Gambetta, Skobeloff, Dilke, Parnell i
And look at the critics of the Samsons ; The Rev,
Job Smiffkins, the Rev. —but why proceed ?
The fasting man is still alive. Sh-sh-sh !
Your ear. It is suspected that he sustains life on
Marshall’s Tonic Nervine. .
Francis Abigail, in a letter to a Sydney
evening paper, says he has .met Lord Jersey and
found him a very decent fellow. That would
settle the matter, only that Jersey has orange-
coloured hair.
Melbourne D. T. says : “ Pluck and
perseverance enabled Stanley to break through a
thousand miles of forest jungle and swampy
morass, in the teeth of poisoned arrows from little
demon dwarfs and malignant gnomes.” Editor
Fitchett is sick, we understand. Can it be that, in
his absence, the D. T. has “got ’em again?”
Mr. H. King, scenic photographer, of
George-street, Sydney, is again to the fore with a
very beautiful and artistic series of Christmas
cards, comprising harbour, river and mountain
views, Jenolan Caves and types of aborigines,
&o.; he has also a grand selection of photographs
(taken by Mr. Lindt, of Melbourne) of views of
scenery and native life in the islands of the New
Hebrides.
Shearer Rae, of the A.S.U., is going to
gaol for a year or two because he refuses to pay,
or allow to be paid for him, the monstrous fines
imposed upon him by a monopolist-made law
imported from England. As agent for the
Shearers’ TJnion, he told a station delegate to call
out 30 or 40 shearers during the late strike. For
this he was fined £5 and costs in respect to each
man—as though he had committed, say, 30 or 40
separate and distinct offences, instead of one only.
Rae’s imprisonment will, as The Bulletin has
already pointed out in other words, involve the
question whether, had he been the indirect instru-
ment in calling out 1000 men, a mere stipendiary
magistrate could have fined him £5 for each one,
and in default sent him to gaol for 14,000 days, or
40 years. If a common “beak ” could do such a
thing, then it becomes plain that it is a much less
penal offence to kick your paralysed mother than
to offend against the Masters and Servants Act.
We have known a lot of good-natured squatters
and a lot of mean ones, but we don’t believe that
if yon raked the whole roll of the Employers’
Union you could find one man who would be mean
enough to publicly or privately defend such a sen
tence as that passed upon Arthur Rae. Rae will
serve his first 14 days and then apply for habeas.
An amusing exhibition of the axiom that
“ Self-preservation is the first law of nature” is
the conduct of the S.M. Herald in reference
to Dr. A. Mueller’s (Yackandandah, Victoria)
treatment of snakebite by the subcutaneous in-
jection of strychnia. A considerable number of
cases, at least thirty, have been successfully
treated in this way in all the Australias since the
discoverer published his theory with the results of
his experience in the Australasian Medical
Gazette for 1888, the editor of that professional
journal, the Hon. J. M. Creed, endorsing his
views of it in June, 1889, by saying that in his
opinion should any patient die from the effects of
snake poison in whose case the hypodermic injec-
tion of strychnia had not been used, then all
available means of saving life had not been
tried. The published cases show marvellous
results in apparently moribund persons. But to
return to Grandmamma. A paragraph was
re-published in her columns of November 24
extracted from the Allahabad Pioneer relative
to a letter addressed by Dr. Mueller to Lord Lans-
downe, Viceroy of India, which had been made
public by the Indian Government. Dr. Creed
very naturally wrote to the editor of the Herald,
pointing out the strange circumstance that though
the medical journal published in Sydney contain-
ing full particulars of this treatment had been
forwarded at the time of publication to the editors
of the daily newspapers of Australia, no notice
had been taken of the discovery made by one of
our own citizens until the subject had appeared in
a newspaper in a distant country under the
auspices of a “ lord ” whose mere name, of course,
has vast influence with the average individual.
Dr. Creed’s letter pointing this out was not pub-
lished, but a paragraph was constructed from it
making it appear that the sole object of his letter
was to claim prior publication of the discovery,
but making no reference to his real complaint:
that an enormously important scientific discovery,
particulars of which had been sent to them, was
not noticed until they saw it had received the
countenance of a far-away lord. And this in a
matter where publication would mean the saving of
human life. By the way, what sort of a testi-
monial do the Australian Governments propose to
subscribe for the doctor who has so generously
given an apparently great discovery to the world ?
To overcome weakness.—Pepper’s Quinine
and Iron Tonic gives new life, appetite, health,
strength, energy. Cures neuralgia, indigestion,
nerve debility. Bottles, 2s. 6d. Insist on having
Pepper’s Tonic.
HOW HE WON THE GIRL.
My little Maid ’tis you, he said,
Alone are dear to me.
Ah, then, she turned away her head
And pe’er a word said she.
But what he whispered in her ear,
And what he answered too,
Drink St. Louis Lager Beer,
I love it—so do you.
This little girl you might know,
She was the only daughter;
I was the only beau
Who bought her Sarsaparilla and Ironwater.
Many in and out of the city will be pleased to
know that Orkelman and Co., photographers in
the Sydney Arcade, have reduced their charges
for photographs. Cabinets now 15s. per dozen.
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
To cure skin diseases. —Sulpholine Lotion
drives away all eruptions, pimples, blotches, red-
ness, eczema, acne, disfigurements, roughness and
scurf, leaving a clear, spotless skin. Sold every
where.


B
U CHAN A N ’ S
"HOUSE OF COMMONS” WHISKY.
life WEST AWARD : Paris Tntkrnational
Exhibition, IS,st).
FOREIGN STAMPS.
We are prepared to pay high prices for old collections
of postage-stamps (stale of book immaterial), or for any
book up your old letters, they may he worth pounds.
One hundred '(100) different Foreisrn Stamps,
old Australian stamps taken off letters dated 1850 to 1870.
Stamps can he sent hy post and will he paid for hy return mail
post ' “ ‘
Albums
Mon
correspondence invited.
U /v.. VINDIN «Sc CO., Foreign Stamp Importers,
11 ViCTOKi.v Akcadk, Kmzabkth STB BBT. .SYDNEY, an’ i) AT HAMBURG
>st free 2s. Bd. : s(i different Australasian stamps (for sending to friends abroad), post free, ss. 2d. ; Stamp
bums, with illustrated catalogues, post free, Os. 10d. and 9s. lOd. Stamp price-list gratis. Tiik Philatelic
ONTiitiV, an illustrated Journal for stamp collectors, post free. 2s. per year ; single copies, post tree, Bcl. ,
0 AND
WORTH IT’S WEIGHT IN COLD!
f
Tooling and Strengh
tl cning EVE
riON, for all disea
_ _ _ the Byes, morej
particularly Sandy Bliglit,lnflammation of the Kyo.anc
Eyelids, Weakness of i NJ '
not only immediate relief
casts of Sandy Blight,
manent cure in a few
Price, Is lid per Itolllo.
in the very worst
but effects a per,
| days.
PHEPARtD ONLY BY
JOHN WATSON,
<'lieini*t, .Wl («eorue Sired, Sydney.
AND SOLD UT ALL RESPECTABLE STOREKEEPERS
lotion
STUFFING.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.)
“ God sends victuals, and the Devil sends
cooks,” is an ancient and abstract truth that
has ripened in the sun of long experience and
become one of the standard articles of faith in
all lands where Christian white people try to
dwell together in peace and love under the
shadow of the British flag and the Ten Com-
mandments.
Truly the Devil does send cooks, and he sends
a great many of them from. China to Australia,
where they have become a recognised institu-
tion, glorified in Australasian song and story,
blit rarely with full justice to their abilities as
purveyors and compounders of mystery, uncer-
tainty, disease and dirt.
“What the eye don’t see the heart never
grieves for,” is the footling proverb of idiocy
always on hand to meet the suggestion that Ah
Sam is not bound by the rules of the game in
the practice of his profession y but I am inci-
dentally reminded of an occasion when tire eye
did see, and when not alone did the heart
grieve in consequence, but the entire framework
of several estimable members of polite society
was convulsed, and the very foundations of
their being laid bare to the gaze of the vulgar
and the tongue of the scoffer.
It was during a temporary residence at the
reputedly best hotel in a Queensland coast town,
on official business, that I unwittingly became
the chosen instrument for a revelation, the
memory of which even now provokes a spasm
of the epigastrium and an unseemly tumult in
places where Nature has provided for pevfect
rest and peace in the economy of her noblest
handiwork. Having enjoyed a hearty break-
fast in the company of the landlord at the head
of the table, the especially muscular and broad-
chested sub-inspector of police at the other end,
two bank-managers, theG.P.S., the postmaster,
a German doctor, and the local editor, all
permanent boarders; a cattle-buyer and a
“ super ” from a neighboring station, a bagman
in the “ soft goods ” from Brisbane, and two or
three other casual travellers, and smoked the
matutinal pipe on the verandah while listening
to a florid, account of the domestic infelicity of
the police magistrate in consequence of his un-
disguised attachment to a pretty little touzle-
headed milliner across the street, 1 went
upstairs to my room to get writing materials.
From the window, a downward sidelong-
glance revealed part of the interior of the
kitchen, at the table of winch stood the inevi-
table Chinese cook, just then engaged in break-
ing eggs into a large bowl ; near at hand stood
a tray of fowls plucked and drawn, ready for
cooking, and close to them some pieces of
broken bread, bottles of dried herbs, eschalots,
and other culinary adjuncts. Common pru-
dence would have suggested my retirement
from the window ; curiosity induced me to
linger. The regret that I did so linger is with
me to the present moment, and will only die
when I do.
Having broken all the eggs into the basin,
including one or two which, from the pro-
tracted and loving manner with which he sniffed
at them, must have been very bad eggs, indeed,
he next built up little piles of herbs on the
table in a neat row near the remnants of bread,
turned back the dirty shirt-sleeve on his right
arm, and, plunging the hand into the basin of
eggs, beat them vigorously about with the
long skinny digits. Twice he drew the fore-
finger across his mouth as though to make sure
that the eggs he suspected had not attained a
sufficiently advanced stage of decomposition to
imperil the consumption of this tasty custard,
and then his left hand came into active service
while the right continued to splash the contents
of the basin into foam. First he fed himself
with bread, then with herbs and onions ; when
this was masticated to his satisfaction he opened
his mouth and allowed the contents to drop in
the shape of a huge, speckled, slimy bolus, on
the table ; another supply of the raw material
followed, and so on until the little heap began
to grow into a pile of magnitude.
What was it for’ It could scarcely be for
amusement, and it was evidently not to satisfy
hunger. Surely not to mix with the beaten
eggs for any culinary conceit? No, it was done
to save time for some purpose and—shade of
the blessed Confucius ! —of course. It w’as to
stuff the folds with !
To get a witness of this ghastly horror I ran
downstairs, and on the. verandah, right in front
of the door, stood the. editor in earnest conver-
sation with Father Peter, the parish priest:—
“Pardon the interruption, but there is no
time to be lost ! Don’t ask questions, but
follow me quickly and quietly upstairs. It
may be a matter of life and death, and it cer-
tainly is a chance, for a, newspaper that on,ly
happens opce, in a lifetime.”
Yes, there he was, hard at it, but the, basin
was pushed aside. He was still chewing,
though, and had both hands engaged in season-
ing with salt and pepper the loathsome mass
before him :
“Phwatisit?” said Father Peter, “sure, I
t see nothing to make a riot about. ”
“ Keep your eye on him, reverend father,
and watch that compound. There ! You, see
where it comes from. Presently, if you, caii
control your feelings, you shall sec where it
goes to. Now, you observe, a handful of it is
rammed into the abdominal cavity of the
nearest fowl. Now, another, now—
“ Brandy, for Heaven’s sake !-—rum, gin—
anything you can get, but quick !” gurgled the
’Tiskk, as he sank upon the bed, pale and
gasping.
“ Oh, the bastely haythen Tan k!” said
Father Peter. “Sure, I’ll go down and bate
him.”
“Personally,” I remarked, “1 feel no vital
interest in this matter. I’m thankful to say I
don’t live here altogether, and I make it a rule
to take no chances o i that kind away from
home. Let the galled jade wince y I stick to
plain roast and boiled.”
‘■‘•Stop Father,” said the Tisi.u, “and leave
this to me. Say nothing about it to anyone,
and I promise you both to deal with it in such
a way that a repetition of the outrage will be
impossible in this community.”
“ Sure you wouldn’t put it in the paper ? ”
“Not at this stage. I have a simpler Tout
much more effective plan. Keep your own
counsel and trust me to settle this Chinese
question in one act- Let its go down stairs,
Jennie, my dear, bring three brandies into the
private sitting-room, Martell’s three-star,
darling, and don’t be mean about it.”
* Ssf *
“Wonder where the ’Tiskr is to-night?”'
said the postmaster, sending his plate down to
the inspector for more fowl ; “it’s not often he’s
behind time when the dinner-bell rings,’’
“ Oh, grinding out another of those awful
slushy leaders of his for to-morrow’s rag, I
suppose,” said the inspector. “ It’s about time
he gave Bismarck’s European policy a rest now,
and took another turn at the telegraph-office, or
the corporation salaries, or the goats, or at me,
if he likes."
“ Yah, vat doos he know of Beesmarck find
lines hoi icy ? I haf allertime meinself say to
him to mind hees beosness mid der goats und
dor' kauaggas. und der Sunday-school, und de
Orange Lot eh. und oiler madders vich he can
HIS NAME WASN’T GEORGE.
Flemington “Hill” on Cup Day. Country Joskins standing up in front of a sitting
crowd. To him:-
“SIT DOWN, GEORGE!”
“MY NAME AIN’T GEORGE, IT’S PHILIP.”
“DON’T CARE A HANG IF YOUR NAME’S MARIA, YOU’VE GOT TO
SIT DOWN.”
no meestake make. Dank you, yes, I haf
soom liddel more grafy und shduffin.”
“ Yes, that’s right enough,” chirped the bank
manager, “but he can knock the spots off you
at pool, doctor,”
‘■‘Yah, dat is so, ven I do not somedimes
blay ; but Herr Inspegdor can knock vat you
call spods out of der ’Tiskr mid dor liddel
frauleius cm der croquet-grass. Isn’d id ?”
“Oh, well, the ’Tiber’s not half a bad fellow,
doctor, and I play croquet a good deal more
than he does. He’s a hit of an ass, but he
can’f help that, and I know he has had no great
love for me since that time I had him fined
over that infernal dog of his. But here he is. ’
“ Good evening, Tiskr.”
“ What made you so late, old man ?”
“It’s a cold clay for the ’Tiskr when the
roast fowl is all gone !”
“Gentlemen, your interest in me is highly
flattering. I was unavoidably detained at the
office, which I particularly regret, because it
would have been to the advantage of many of
you if I could have come earlier ; especially to
my friend, the inspector there, who smiles at
me in his customary friendly fashion, but avlio,
I suspect, has played more havoc with the roast
fowls than any of you, and helped himself with
his usual liberality in the matter of stuffing. I
fear I have arrived too late to prevent his me st
poignant regrets.”
“ What do you mean?”
“ What’s it all about, ’Tiskr?”
“ Tiskr, mein freundt, you yoost coom find
haf your tinner, und shpeak .dat artiglc ven you
haf done. ”
“Ah, doctor, you also have been eating
roast fowl I see from the debris on your plate.
Stuffing doubtless has accompanied it. Listen
to me. This morning I saw those fowls stuffed
by the mandarin in the outside temple. He
arranged the ingredients this way —on the
table : he took the bread, and the greens, and
the rock-salt, and the raw liver, and all the
other offal of which it is constructed, and
mouthful by mouthful he chewed it up and
spat it out, and mixed it up with fiery condi-
ments, and jammed it into those fowls the
remains of which are mow on the table. And
you, inspector, and you, my friends, have
feasted thereon, and may the Lord have mercy
upon your souls I”
“ It’s a lie !”
“ Impossible !”
“ What a damn shame !”
“ Don’t believe a word of it !”
“ Tiskr, you’re a filthy brute !’’
“ Great Scott ! Let me get out !”
And as the seats of some of the banqueter's
became vacant, the 1 ’Tiskr continued ;
“ You, ray worthy host, are the only person
present who lias so far forgotten himself as to
use 1 the word f lie’ to m'e, and for that you will
presently purge yourself with feelings of deep
contrition. You say it is a lie. I say it is the
truth- Horrible if yoti like disgusting arm
destructive of the time-honored reputation of
this good old house, but none the less true.
Ask the gentleman on your left hand, and if his
testimony is not held to be sufficient—and 1
appeal now more particularly to my friend the
Inspector —ask yottr confessor and confidant,
the reverend Father Peter-
Six chairs were now untenanted ; the doctor
emptied the seventh as he said ; “ \ ell, I go
now, and Ido not any more goom back. It is
so goot for me as ein emedique.”
The Inspector alone was silent. By reason
of his ability as a carver the poultry had
always been put at his end of the table, and his
partiality for stuffing had passed into a pro-
verb. Great thoughts now welled up within
him, and his heart was too full for utterance;
the faint shadow of a smile which had been
provoked by the first outburst of the "Tjser’s
eloquence was even yet not entirely hidden by a
greenish pallor that overspread his usually
joyous visage, but in his eyes was that far-away
look with which the condemned criminal listens
to the voice of the judge who tells him that his
last hour has come. At length he also rose,
and staggered rather than walked out into the
night, from whence came, at short intervals,
indistinct sounds of bitter anguish, and the
violent denunciation of many strong men in
their agony.
Chinese screams on a crescendo scale also
emanated from the kitchen during the interview
which took place between the proprietor and
All Sam about what the latter declared was
“ welly ni’ lo’ fow’.”
# * *
Months elapsed before the inspector recovered
his usual jaunty air. Promotion and removal
to another station helped him to forget, but he
was never known to cat poultry after that
awful night, the particulars of which did not
appear in print “ for prudential reasons,” as
the ’Tiser afterwards told me.
All this happened many years ago. The
hotel is still there, but its glory has departed,
though the cooking is done by a female artiste
who uses a mincing-machine whenever it
becomes necessary to chop things up small.
There may still be one or two bald-headed men
in the locality to whom it would be as well to
say nothing about “ stuffing.”
THE BUNYIP.
A N.S.W. back-countryman lately lost a
valuable diamond out of a ring. He searched
everywhere for it, and eventually gave it up for
lost. A day or two back, the stone was found
inside a duck which was being prepared for the
table.
A bullock fell from a cattle train on the
Sandhurst line, and escaped without injury. The
animal followed up its luck by charging the engine
of a goods train, by which time Providence had
become tired of saving a bullock from an un-
natural death, and the usual consequences resulted.
There is a certain amount of placid happi-
ness in being a deserted infant in Britain, and
living on the generous sold of the British matron.-
For instance, a workhouse matron at Westbury-
on-Severn has lately been “reprimanded” for
throwing fourteen buckets of cold water over a
little girl, and then hitting her with the bucket.-
A pathetic homily on the etils of gambling
was fished out of the Yarra the other morning,
and laid down to drip on the bank. It consisted
of the customary corpse and in the pockets there
were sixteen bookmaker’s tickets showing that
the remains had plunged its worldly substance on
sixteen spavined crooks, every one of whom had
lost. There wasn’t a solitary tvinner among the
lot, and the only assets which hadn’t been scooped
by the placid Moses who lays the odds Were a
bunch of keys, a knife, and a plug of tobacco. _ As
the cadaver was in a seriously decayed state it is
presumed that he had hopped this earthly twig
about the last night of the carnival, so that for
ten long days he had floated about along with the
snag, and the deceased pussy-cat, and other bric-
a-brac, while the combined effluvia of six dye-
works, nine tanneries, two fellmongering establish-
ments, one bone-boiling emporium, three tallow-
tendering factories, a slaughter-house and a gas-
ometer had breathed above his last malodorous
resting-place. There was no burial service worth
mentioning, and no tombstone, and as for a
requiem the only thing in that line was the wild
howl and shriek of the first mate of some passing
mud-punt, when his vessel struck oh a lump of
coal that Wasn’t marked on the chart and went
down head first into the great deep, and the
captain and the cook were deposited in a watery
grave. Also nobody identified the wreckage of
the deceased brother, and nobody wanted to, and
nobody cared a curse; and a plain, brief entry
was made in the register that a person, name
unknown, had perished from something obscure
and complicated in a foreign tongue, which was
a hollow lie and not calculated to impose upon
anybody- “ Died through swallowing dirty water
brought on by backing the wrong horse” would
probably have fitted the case.
Body-Snatching.
TORN FROM THE GRAVE.
An extraordinary case has lately come under
our notice. It appears that Mr. H. A. Crane,
who travels over this and the adjacent colonies in
the interests of one of the largest importing firms
in this city, and therefore is a well-known man
all over Australia, has lately been in very in-
different health. He had suffered from a severe'
shaking at the Windsor railway smash, and had
been under the treatment of the best physicians
in Melbourne and .Sydney, The most trouble-
some symptom was neuralgia, which was ex-
cruciatingly painful; he had been a sufferer from
this complaint on and off for years, but since the
accident lie had suffered ten times worse than
ever. He consulted physician after physician
without benefit ; they told him amongst them, he
had every complaint from atrophy of the liver to
heart disease. His case was so remarkable that
we give his own version of it in his own words,
considering that he has had a miraculous escape
from acute suffering, if not from an untimely
grave. He says :
For the last seven years I have been a victim to
the most excruciating agony from neuralgia, and
also suffered from extreme nervousness. I tried
hundreds of so-called specifics, but without avail,
and, being a commercial traveller, am particularly
liable to colds from exposure to draughts, &c. ; a
slight one even always fled to my facial nerves,
and caused acute neuralgic pains, preventing
sleep, and causing excessive sympathetic head-
ache. I saw Clements Tonic advertised, procured
a bottle, and in two days the pain was completely
cured, a consummation I had never expected, and
am deeply thankful for same. This was four
months ago, and from then till now I have never
had the slightest twinge of the excruciating
torture I used to have. You may make what use
of this you like.
Yours gratefully,
Henry A. Crane.
We also received similar letters from T. Garrett.
Esq., M.P., who says :-“He has found Clements
Tonic a great aid to appetite and digestion,’’ and
from Mrs. Whalley, who was quite worn out,
tired, weak and unable to move. She took seven
bottles of Clements Tonic, and now can eat, work,
and sleep, and is stronger than ever before.
We could go on like this with evidence that
proves the value of Clements Tonic in acute
diseases right down the column, and then for yards
over the edge of the paper, so inexhaustible is our
supply of influential and positive endorsement.
We will send full particulars of the diseases-
Clements Tonic is suitable for on receipt of youi?
name and address. F. M. Clements, Newtown,
Sydney. ,
Full particulars and endorsements on appli-
cation to F. M. Clements, Newtown, N-S. W. ;■
at Melbourne, George and George; at Adelaide,
S. A. Mutual Stores, !)(> Way mouth-street; at
Wellington (N.Z.), Sharland & Co., and Laun-
ceston, J. D. Johnstone ; and all dealers every ■
where.


f
Watch mi and Jewellery are like good wives—they’ are
worth having,
end for Illustrated Price List. Post Free.
813 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
(Nearly opposite Railway Station).
Factories: Livkhpool and London, England.
£2 10s. English Lever, Two Years’Onaranteed.
£3 10s. English Lever, “The Unequalled,” full cap.
£4 English Lever, “ The Special,” compensated.
20 The Unequalled Keyless Watch. 20/-
Country Residents and Visitors to Sydney call or send
to A. SAUNDERS, 813 George Street (nearly opposite
Railway Station), SYDNEY.
Amusement of a profitable nature. Ladies,
make your own dresses by procuring one of our
dress stands ; they are indispensable for altering,
trimming, and re-arranging dresses. They are, in
fact, a household necessity. We make them to
fold up so as to go in trunks. Write for parti-
culars to Eastway Brothers, Dross Stand Makers,
411, George-street, Sydney.
DEPOSITORS. BORROWERS.
INTERCOLONIAL INVESTMENT, LAND and
. BUILDING- COMPANY, Limited,
■ AND
DEPOSIT BAPTK.
Incorporated under the Companies’ Act.
Offices: 96 BATHURST STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors;
VVM. M’COniT, Esq., M.L.A. (Chairman);
R. J. BRANDON, Esq., J.P. ; TIIOS. TATE. Esq.;
J. T. LAWLER, Esq.; 0. DYSON, Esq.
BORROWERS.
Loans Granted on Approved Securities.
DEPOSITORS.
Moneys received on Deposit:
Three Years
One Y oar
Six Months
Participating
in
Bonus.
7J per cent.
7 per cent.
6 per cent.
Five per cent, allowed on Daily Balance of Current
Account, which may be operated on by cheque.
Latest Balance-sheet on application.
W. J. DOUGLAS, Manager.
POLITICAL
POINTS
Victorian Postmaster Duffy means to carry
newspapers free, as in N;S: Wales and Queens-
land.
The first responsible Ministry in Western
Australia is to be appointed towards the end of
December;
W. H. Groom will never forgive Griffith
his failure to make him Minister for Lands in the
Queensland Coalition Ministry.
The Military Federal Conference means
that a clique of toy soldiers are enjoying a costly
picnic at the expense of their respective govern-
ments.
A Tory paper suggests that the Govern-
Inent should give Pat his Parliament on condition
that it sits in London and that only a moderate
sum for admission is charged.
The N.S.W. Government propose to
largely increase the pay of many leading Civil
Servants. To add to the monstrous salaries of the.
parliamentary officials will be a gross job.
It is covertly hinted that should West
Macquarie (N.S.W.) again return Crick the con-
stituency will be disfranchised by Parliament.
This threat alone should ensure Crick’s re-election.
Minister J. G. Duffy has alliteratively
declared that the policy of the Munro Ministry is
to be “peaceful, practical, progressive, and
prudent.” Young Anstral-Ireland on deportment,
hey ?
Chamberlain, interviewed on the subject,
considers that Parnell’s case is worse than that of
Dilko. N.B. —Our great picture of “The Last
Supper” will represent Judas Iscariot with an
eyeglass.
Mr. G. R. Dibbs says if he were a West
Macquarie elector he would vote for Crick, as the
latter did not receive fair play from the Chairman
of Committees. And yet Mr. Dibbs voted for
Crick’s expulsion !
As was lately predicted would be the case
by an English correspondent of The Bulletin,
the British Socialist League has adopted and
means shortly to give effect to a manifesto advis-
ing a no-rent policy.
A Melbourne paper contends that all the
disorder in the N.S.W. Assembly is traceable to
the Privy Council’s decision in Taylor v. Barton,
members presuming on the restricted powers
vested in the Speaker.
The elections for the first Assembly in
Western Australia will take place early in Decem-
ber, commencing on sth, and ending on 12th of
that month. No less than 18 out of the 30
electorates will return members unopposed !
Queen Victoria (worth £7,000,000) has, it
is cabled, written (enclosing nothing, as per usual)
to “General ’ Booth approving of his scheme for
shovelling all the destitute paupers of her
dominion into that beastly country, Australia.
God save the Queen ! Hip, hip, hooray !
Sir William Robinson says that “ West
Australia is the framework of a great country, but
capital and labour are wanted to complete the
edifice.” What he forgot to mention is that
capital will collar the edifice when it is completed.
It is a habit that capital has got into, somehow.
Many distressed trades-unionists have been
evicted at Pyrmont, Sydney, and are now living
with their wives and children in single rooms.
We have already erected in Australia the complete
skeleton of a first-class European hell, which only
wants filling in with an hereditary nobility and
a State Church.
London Standard says that the army is a
force which will last in every State of Europe,
rendering insurrection almost impossible. The
professional soldier survived the diffusion of
Christianity, and may be found to survive the
diffusion of Socialism, if that is to be the new
creed of the world.
Dan O’Connor, the N.S.W. Postmaster
General, again asserts that the leading members
of the Opposition are “ invious ” because they see
the present Government still retains office. An
undent Greek adage ran: —“It is even better to
be born an ass than to see worse men than oneself
living in a more exalted station.”
Military idiots who have “sat upon” the
Channel Tunnel scheme must be staggered to find
the Bank of France obliging the Bank of England
with £5,000,000 in gold to avert a financial crisis
in London. To the field-marshal mind such an
arrangement appears conclusive evidence that both
countries are going to the devil-.
Premier Munro, asked if he didn’t think
it risky to include M‘Lean and Duffy in his
Cabinet (both being R.C.), replied that he didn’t
care a curse what a man’s religion was, so long as
his politics suited. For this he is marked by the
Orange Lodge. Munro struck the right note.
Let ua hope that his whole Cabinet will always
act up to it.
N early every county, hundred, and town-
ship in S. Australia is named after some dead or
half-alive member of Parliament. The new
county, “ Kintore,” which was proclaimed the
other day, consisted of hundreds, all named afte r
politicians and ex-politicians—men who have dor e
absolutely nothing for the country, but whose
names will thus be handed down to generations.
Western Australia, wherein “General”
Booth has been promised 1,000,000 acres of land
whereon to shoot the degraded pauper and criminal
victims of the British sweaters and land-mono-
polists, is, it should not be forgotten, the province
which once petitioned that convicts should be sent
to it. Land-grab is no doubt at the bottom of this
threatened revival of transpottation to Australia.
Barings may burst, but the Argentine Re-
public fizzes ahead into a great nation. Look how
Buenos Ayres grows. Population in 1809 was
170,000. In 1882 it jumped to 250,000 ; and now,
in eight years more, it is over half a million. In
the last six years there have been a million immi-
grants from Europe to the Argentine. Talk
about the growth of Melbourne!
Mr. George Withers (ex-M.L.A.), of
Sydney, has taken action against Mr. Walter
Edmunds, M.L.A., for having imputed to him a
corrupt offer in connection with the Broken Hill
Water Supply Bill. As Mr. Withers rests his
action on apparently privileged statements made in
Parliament by Mr. Edmunds, it may be that ho
merely intends asking leave to enter the Supreme
Court witness-box to deny or explain.
At next general election the Queensland
Labour Party count on returning from 12 to 15
candidates, which, if it happens, will create a great
rout in the old Conservative camp. Teetotalism
is a leading characteristic of the Queensland
Labour-leaders. The six foremost figures—Hindi
cliffe, Mabbott, Seymour, Casey, Turley and
Bowman —all eschew strong drink, as does also
the editor of the Worker, W. Lane.
The property qualification for voters is
still retained in Maoriland, and although a pro-
perty-owner can only vote once at a general
election lie has the choice of voting in any one of
several electorates where he lias property and has
his name on the rolls. This gives the Tory party
an unfair advantage over the democracy as they
can concentrate their votes in any electorate
where they may be weakest, and in this way, by
A QUESTION OR DISCIPLINE.
PRIVATE (to officer with whom he is well acquainted): "SAY, CHARLEY, ’AVE A
DRINK?”
OFFICER: “WELL, AH, LOOK HERE, BUT IN THE IMPERIAL ARMY YOU
COULDN’T TALK TO ME LIKE THAT."
PRIVATE: “QUITE RIGHT, BUT YOU AIN’T SWELL ENOUGH TO BE AN
OFFICER IN THE IMPERIAL ARMY.”
mutual help, win many seats they would be
unable to win, if their qualifications, like those of
th.e democracy, were simply residential. Let Aus-
tralia keep this fact in her eye.
At the tail-end of a high-falutin -eulogy on
Parliament House, Melbourne, which structure
will probably cost a million sterling before it is
completed, the Age declares that “ the Parliament
House of our ‘ elder sister,’ New South Wales, is
little better than a barn by comparison, though
possibly'-good enough for some of its members.”
Good -enough for all. Sydney wants a decent
city hospital worse than a flash Parliament
House. And so does Melbourne.
Every now and again somebody wants to
know why New Guinea, that is -to say, the British
part of it, is not thrown open to land-boomer and
shindikater. So far as is known, it is as much as
the dark island can do to support its present
Papuan population, and the encouragement of a
new-chum white population would simply mean
starvation and death. For our part we should
be quite willing to see this part of Australasia
thrown open—provided that the promoters of
land-schemes be compelled to go and live there.
Brisbane begins to feel very bad on the
question of granting autonomy to the Northland
is positive that the chief motif of the request is to
flood the North with the placid South Sea
Islander. Of course, the southern city’s real
apprehensions arises from the impending “divide”
and the loss for ever of by far the larger part of
the present colony’s revenue. The Far Northern
whites are fairly well able to take care of them-
selves ; but The Bulletin would like to see
embodied in the new Northern Constitution a
clause, inserted at the instigation of the forthcom-
ing federation convention, regulating to prohibi-
tion point the importation of niggers to Australia,
Personal Items.
Bradlaugh visits Australia next autumn.
Sir George Grey, now seriously ill, is in
his 79th year.
A celebrated military trio—Col. Price,
Carbine, Kitz.
The J; B. Watson estate in Victoria yields
in £40,000 per annum.
Mrs. Barker, the young widow of the
ancient Bishop Barker, has arrived in Sydney.
The Age has not yet forgiven Colonel
Templeton for prosecuting its “blood relation.”
Archbishop Reynolds (S.A.) is in a pre-
carious condition. Ho suffers from Bright’s
disease.
Poor Parnell ! Poor Paddy’s old wake-
ness, the she Shea, and now he has to go through
Uilke’s purgation.
A nephew of Father Mathew keeps a
public-house in the neighbourhood of Redfern
Railway Station, Sydney.
Mrs. Gordon-Baillie’s husband, Mr. Percy
Frost, is now in Melbourne, residing with a distin-
guished political visitor from England.
David Christie Murray boasts that ho has
been newspaper reporter, war correspondent,
novelist, artist, painter, and now he is an actor.
It turns out that Duncan, the now noto-
rious editor of London Matrimonial News, is
married to the widow of no less a personage than
the late Whyte-Melville.
James Robertson, of Colac (Vic.), breeder
of the famous Colac herd, has left £112,580. He
is said to have been the original of Moorhouse’s
“ Call-a-spade-a-gory-shovel ” yarn.
Mrs. O’Shea, Parnell’s charmer, is, for her
age, wonderfully youthful. She is really a beauti-
ful woman, has a very big fortune, and is a sister
to General Sir Evelyn Wood, V.O.
Admiral Scott’s place at the ’banquet-table
is simply “a question of loyal obedience to the
Queen’s regulations,” The poor man has to eat
and drink to the glory of the Empire.
Gresley Lukin is residing in Brisbane with
the expressed object of purchasing the Boomerang
weekly newspaper, and -running it as an enlarged
weekly in conjunction with a live daily.
The N.S.W, Anglican community have
had Primate Smith just long enough -to be
■thoroughly aware for how little it is possible to
exchange £2OOO a year in good red gold.
Overheard in the N.S.W. Supreme Court
one day last week: “Yes, his lather and his
grandfather may have been very good Judges, but
there’s an awful lot of indecision about him.”
■** Honest Tom ” Playford is 53 years old.
■Unlike most successful men, he is the son of a
parson. Parsons’ sons generally turn out to be
scamps. The present writer is the son of a
parson !
A southern paper states That John Haynes
is the first Australian politician who has been
converted to Buddhism. This is the roughest
thing that has happened to Buddha for quite a
long time.
The Czar lately wrote to General Booth
commending the efforts of that-red-painted apostle
on behalf of the suffering poor of England. After
doing this he probably started fifty of his subjects
on the road to Siberia.
Editor Grant, of the Lockyer (Q.) Star,
is turning Presbyterian minister. A -most re-
freshing reversal of the old order of things.
Mr. Grant is to be congratulated on breaking the
vow of perpetual poverty.
Living in Campbelltown, N.S.W., is a
storekeeper who knew Fisher—of Fisher’s ghost
celebrity. He was present when Sir Francis
Forbes, C.J., opened the first Circuit Court at
Campbelltown, in August, 1839.
A Melbourne paper says : —“ Lord Hope-
toun has the eyes of a thinker. . . . His eyes
are enough to stamp him as more than the ordinary
man in mental stature. His defect is that he is
too thoughtful.” Like the sailor’s parrot.
Dr. Springthorpe, of Melbourne, is off to
Berlin for the Koch cure of phthisis. He went at
a day's notice, on a commission from Were, of the
Stock Exchange, whose family lias to mourn
many deaths at the hands of the destroyer.
Melbourne Justice, with profuse apologies,
lias sentenced ex-Councillor Enchainte Geddes to
a further imprisonment of two years, after his
original three 1 , months have expired; That will
keep the apostle off the drink for a while) anyway;
One Bunny) now standing for the N.Z.
Parliament, was asked at a meeting if he was in
favour of the introduction of stoats and weasels.
“ Certainly not,” replied he, “when did you ever
hear of a bunny being favourably disposed to such
vermin ?
It strikes The Bulletin that “Mr.
Stephen Thompson” (with a “p ”) is a much-
advertised man. Who, we wonder, writes all the
paragraphs about Mr. Stephen Thompson with a
“p? ’ And who on earth is Mr. Stephen Thomp-
son with a “p?”
Chief Justice Way poses as an anti-
quarian, his special proclivity being old books, but
he drives a hard bargain when he buys any, and
always refers to Registrar Tyas, of Adelaide
University, when he contemplates the purchase of
an ancient tome.
A. G. Taylor, as a N. S. W. parliamentary
draw, is now at a discount. On the first night or
two after his election the galleries were absolutely
crammed with people who had come to smell blood,
but now not a soul attends to view the long
promised slaughter.
Baroness de Ros, who has just completed
her 95th year, was a beautiful girl of 20 when she
danced at the historic ball given at Brussels on
the eve of Waterloo, June 17th, 1815, by her
father, the Duke of Richmond. Two of her
sisters still survive—one, aged 87; the other, 82,
The “ Sydney Commissioner ” (a lady)
of the London Society Times speaks of Mr.
Montgomerie Severn as “one of the handsomest
men I have seen in Sydney.” The Bulletin
mentions this to enable Mr. Montgomerie Severn
;o prosecute the Society Times with the utmost
rigour of the law.
Lord Jersey is now described as “ a thin,
prim, precise person, with thin yellow hair and
cold grey eyes. His manners are distinctly polite,
and his mission to N.S. Wales is understood to
be to undo the impressions of the aristocracy,
which have arisen through Carington’s lamentably
democratic notions.”
It is now said that St. David’s Church, at
Hobart, was so named in a “ general order ” to
commemorate Colonel David Collins, who founded
the settlement.- St. Philip’s Church, on Church-
hill, Sydney, was named after Governor Philip
.and St. John’s, Parramatta, after Governor John
Hunter. The early governors of Australia were
distinguished for their piety.
Peacock, one of the members of Munro’s
new Cabinet, has a bigger horse-laugh than any
.other Australian (politician. It is in live separate
shrieks, and a final yell 1 ke a brass band in its
last agony, and as he utters it the owner doubles
up as if he were smitten with an internal pain.
Then he suddenly sits up with a wooden expres-
sion on his countenance, and all is calm once
rnnrp.
\V. O. Hodgkinsou, Queensland Minister
of Public Instruction, unlike Minister Carruthers,
of N.S.W. is not addicted to firing moral maxims
at the head of youth. Addressing a children’s
S.P.C.A. meeting, he said : “ And you, little boys,
don’t say naughty words when your wives want
an occasional new bonnet. If you haven’t got
any money go and draw a cheque for some, and
please your wives.”
Mayor Cohen, of Adelaide, .is such an
•inveterate jabberer that his tongue is probably slit,
or hung in the middle, so that he may .wag both
.ends of it. He is so fond of talking that,he would
orate to a deaf and dumb asylum or a graven
image. To make matters worse, he has a hideously
strident voice which reminds one partially of a
cicada, and still more of a load of bar-iron going
over a newly-metalled road.
Hannah de Rothschild, Countess of Rose-
bery, has died of typhoid fever. The Countess, a
typical Jewess, daughter of Baron Meyer de
Rothschild, was a very amiable and unaffected
woman, and was much liked by those who met her
in Australia. As her husband, the Earl of Rose-
bery,is remembered here as the most brainy and
pleasant of all the hereditarily-titled men who
have set foot on our soil, many will cordially sym-
pathise with him in his loss.
General Norman, the departed Governor
of Queensland, is a most affable personage, con-
sidering all the circumstances of the case.
Voyaging down from Brisbane on the Wodonga
the other day he was the delight of all the old
ladies aboard, and there was a ghastly scramble
three times a day as to who should sit next him at
table. Through a dispensation of the steward all
jealousies were set at rest by the implanting at
the vice-regal elbow of a somewhat seedy-look-
ing party, understood to be ,a newspaper scribe.
Queen Victoria is going to erect a statue
to the deceased Frederick of| Germany in the
grounds at Balmoral. This will make the fourth,
the other three being the Prince Consort, the
Queen herself, and the perpetual Brown—and
Brown is the most conspicuous of the lot. The
Highland flunkey and boot-cleaner is the first
object that strikes the eye in the front of the
house, and from the windows the landscape is
mostly Brown. Then there is a large granite
cross* in memory of Princess Alice,,and a stone slab
to recall the deceased Leopold, and about forty
other little things in the way of pillars, urns, and
miscellaneous tombstones which make the gardens
of Balmoral a sort of festive graveyard.


The u Legitimate ”is played out Virtue, in velvet
trunks, triumphant over vice nj russet top-boots, will
no longer “draw money. ’ tSimuiuied suffering the
public won’t have price
Sword-sfraUowmg will no longer “ 'go
down.
Slogging matches are still in high
favour among the rich and power-
ful—Lords, Dukes and “ Posht-
teasLtcr-GuieraUr—hut prices of admission are now prohibitive
to the amusement-loving macses.
The parachute fake was dangerous enough in its
way. but the wrong way The parachute was liable
to “ miss stays ” and drop its man on the heads of tha,
spectators
Fatal results on the turf arc becoming
altogether too infrequent of late to keep up tb»
interest in that once popular sport, steeple-
chasing.
The man who first went over Niagara in a cash
almost m»t a long-felt want ; but as the sufferings Of
the victim w.-re barrelled up from view, more recent
performances in that line have •'played to empty
benches.
Rat-baiting spells rum ft » now considered J un-
English ” because it is altogether too rough on the rat, hum
life°being rarely sacrificed in the encounter
I A K)
Mo, what the amusement-loving public will have, at any cost, is open-and-abovc-bgard
human suffering combined with suicide) and the‘fasting man has ait the public 11 where d
lives ”
Deadly Dsn of Devils’ Dea has had his
simply because it was two to one on the Apple*
The young lady nearly always got off alive.
The public will no longer pay gate-money to sec the man who undertakes to eat
1000 pounds of sausages in 1000 quarter-hours. It is too much like attending a Mayor’s
“ complimentary dinner,” which any flunkey can do for nothing.
a -V OfFI C/.
<o° f
We may well pause and ask. “ Whither are wo drifting I”
<f/‘
'N
is
V f
Ku ? -
fr
)h
Mi<.s
5,
? «=»-
ln Pv>l./\R PR, C C <,
t suus" Uu s /-
CAPRICES OF THE “AMUSEMENT"-LOVING PUBLIC.


f
vvB'ulß Wot
7 fftp ' r 1 /
r 1 5* r% i£* •' V. O< * /
MaR P' i Q VO U '
V v O M.-n 9
yvo^^ o .
■K ; *b*9
1 if I
" *aWV'
■jM c,
I S ay*s> >
wKq+'s io be dor\e nov T’'
fT) a-4 c( > h
(PS)
rr,c ‘ if-
{je f r ">,oK^>
TTje ]3>t»rcJ>c> rs> ’ jfriKc
II ,^ s f\i. j jusf bun, <-<<x3 l-'VJJ i-fcouf
c«r» ;£*.<
o«r bU CorTl
, 5/. ■
of FTr»es
palace | —|o*f <2 L
V He " g , 7/ ,
Conscious 4 0 ff, G fq^l—
f^T
h ' l t e ' n |) ,r^>al, T>«c(^'
~l~h>c fV\ 111 4 O r— y (onj-frc erf
r jr S <sD ounoj J
SOUTHERN TOPICS.


The SYDNEY DEPOSIT BANK,
)IO —KING STREET —OO
Established 1885,
Agencies in London and throughout Australia.
Overdrafts granted against Deposit of Deeds,
and all the usual banking business transacted.
The following are the Kates of Interest allowec
for Fixed,Deposits i—
-8 Years ... ... 9J per cent.
12 Months ... .. 8} per cent.
G Months ... ... per cent.
3 Months • ... .. 6| per cent.
5 per cent, allowed on daily balance of current account
For the bast Four (4) Years a Bonus of One per
Cent; has-been paid in addition to the above rates.
.This is the first and only Bank in the Colonies
tfrhibh divides its profits with its depositors.
Communications from the country will be
promptly attended to.
T. S. RICHARDSON,
General Manager
Folr Sleeplessness
Use horsford’s acid phosphate.
Dr. Henry Harland, M.R.C.S., Tunbridge
Wells, says: “I have prescribed it in cases of
nervous debility and chronic insomnia with highly
beneficial results.”
No other medicine has won for itself such
universal confidence as Ayer’s Sarsaparilla. It
is the most powerful combination of vegetable
alteratives ever offered to the public, and is ac-
knowledged to be the best blood-purifier.
Charlemont and Co., photographers to the
Governor, Royal Arcade, have moderated their
charges for photographs, with a view of meeting
every one. Cabinets now 15s. per dozen.
Reliable Watch Repairs. Daiims&Co., King-st. Arcade.
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
How to Grow Rich. —Invest in land at Perth,
W.A. Plans from Intercolonial Investment Co..
Limited, 96 Bathurst-street, Sydney.
W. H. PALING & COMPANY, LIMITED,
356 George Street, SYDNEY,
TTAYE Just Opened a Magnificent Lot of 3XTe , vir Pianos from the celebrated Mahers, Steinway, Erard, Uehel, Fennell, Lipp, Ronisch, Blnthner, Collard,and others
Also of the wonderful Victor Pianos a/fc £45 and Estey Orga-ia-s. No such Variety or Value elsewhere for Cash or lerms.
Society
Afc the Sydney farewell banquet to Gov.
Carington, after dwelling long and extravagantly
on the virtues of the departing Baron, “ the,
wisest of Australian Governors/’ and without say-
ing a word about Lady Carington, Premier Parkes
passed on to speak about the Australian-born
vice-regal baby, to which he referred as “that
interesting creature ” —as if it were a new or
abnormal variety of platypus, or something of
the sort. Mr. Bibbs, who followed, devoted his
speech chiefly to complimentary references to
Lady Carington. One of the Governors subse-
quently said—“ We were all much pleased with
Mr. Bibbs' speech, for it supplied an omission
which we feai'ed was intentional.” Just show ns
the man who is not under petticoat-government.
# # #
It was this latter little affair, probably,
which prompted Bibbs, when proposing Lady Car-
ington’s health at the Sydney Reform Club
“ send-off,” to call on all hands to leave no “ heel-
taps,” and then to break their glasses.
* * *
It is quite untrue that N.S. Wales* richest
heiress has been captured. The prospective bride-
groom attributed to her, a most popular man, is
said to be diligently cultivating another lady, the
daughter of a well-gilded civic magnate.
* * *
A travelling correspondent writes us from
a French watering-place “The other day I met
here whom do you think? Three well-known
divorced or semi-divorced Australian women : ex-
Mrs, M -, ex-Mrs. P , and ex-Mrs. W .
There they were in a bunch. Each had her hair
dyed golden, each had her face painted, and each ”
—but we’ll stop right here.
* * *
The loving bridegrooms of one or two
fashionable Australian weddings have by this
time discovered that (if they did not know it pre-
viously) the gilded treasures they have taken unto
themselves are steadily drifting towards dipso-
mania. Dipsomania does not prevent a woman
from getting a husband if she has money, and
what a ghastly amount of feminine dipsomania we
have in Australia among the women who “toil
not, and neither do they spin.”
* * #
The Parkes-Willis affair reminds one of
the fact that Mr, Balton, member for Orange
in the N.S. Wales Assembly, was removed
some years since from the list of Justices for hav-
ing signed the celebrated Grattan Address, in
which England was referred to as “a foreign
power ’’—which, regarded literally, it certainly is.
(The Bulletin is not a J.P.) Since then Mr.
Balton has entertained at his private house Gover-
nor Carington, representative of Queen Victoria,
and given him a dinner of which the Baron after-
wards spoke in Melbourne as really one of the
finest to which he had sat down in Australia.
# # *
Dr. T. Sherriff, saloon passenger on the
R.M.S. Oceana lying at Williamstown Pier, died
as a doctor should the other afternoon. He didn’t
snivel himself out of the world in a burst of vain
repentance, or call the attention of the company
to the presence of angels hovering around his
pillow. Sherriff probably had dissected too many
people in his time to believe in immortal souls ;
anyhow, he didn’t leave word as to what he
wanted done with his own soul after death. On
the subject of his body the doctor’s instructions
were very particular, however. Professional ex-
perience had taught him that a stranger in a
strange land is uncommonly likely to get his
corpse grabbed in the interests of science, and cut
up without due regard for sorrowing friends at
“home.” In his mind’s eye Dr. Sherriff saw a
learned brother spiking an umbrella into his
liver, perhaps—but this is only our nasty con-
jecture. Enough that he made up” his mind
to be embalmed* and sent back to England. Look-
ing carefully at his watch, and observing that
there was not much more time to live, he asked
somebody to write down from dictation a good
embalming recipe. Then he went into details
concerning the racking of himself up, and pro
needed to explain how he had- better be stowed
away in a dry place—right side up, With Care.
These matters settled he fell a-rnmihating upon
how he would look when he got back to England,
until at last the little clock in the cabin struck
dying time, whereupon he murmured, “mind you
tell them to rub the spices in,” and passed away as
peacefully as a post-mortem examination.
## . *
Writes a London correspondent :
Sir Saul Samuel, actuated, no doubt, by characteristu
jealousy, has treated little Oscar Meyer very scurvily.
The little Austrian may be of trifling account in Sydney,
but here he represents the colony in an official position a 9
Executive Commissioner of the N.S. Wales Court at the
Mining Exhibition, and he is entitled to a certain amount
of courtesy at the hands of the Agent-General. But what
has happened ? Saul shunted him on the opening day of
the Exhibition in favour of himself, and took the chair at
the inaugural luncheon. Last week, again, Sir Saul gave
a dinner to Lord Jersey at Bailey’s Hotel (paid for, no
doubt, with Government money), but though both Wil-
kinson and Corrie, the oilier Commissioners, were invited,
Oscar Meyer was not asked to the feast. But, worse than
all, Meyer was not invited to the conversazione which was
given to commemorate the closing of the Exhibition.
The friction between Sir Saul and Meyer has done much
to mar the success of the Exhibition. Meyer may have
been to blame perhaps for submitting so tamely to these
• studied insults, hut nothing can excuse Sir Saul’s petty
meanness. What will Sir Henry Parkes and Sir Sydney
Burdekin (in posse) say to this treatment of their protege?
And when, oh w hen shall New South Wales have a proper
representative, who can fill the important office of Agent-
General with efficiency and dignity?
This is one side of the story ; the other will, pre-
sumably be heard by-and-bye. So far as The
Bulletin has heard, Sir Saul Samuel (like Henni-
ker Heaton) has ever been found the perfection of
politeness, courtesy, and thoughtfulness by all
Australian visitors to England.
# * *
The students of a certain Melbourne
college > lately complained that . the principal
jammed the place right up, in his greediness for
young lodgers, so that when a fellow wanted a
bath he found another Fellow’s bed had been made
in it.
# # #
Honest John M‘Master, Mayor of Bris-
bane, was got at by the manager of the show to
give Sir Charles and Lady Halle a semi-official
reception when, some time ago, they visited
Bananapolis, and great was old John’s glee to
find himself in such high-toned company. Toole
SHE WASN’T CERTAIN.
ARTIST: “BY JOVE, I SHALL HAVE TO GET A MODEL -I'M ALL OUT
WITH MY ANATOMY.”
YOUNG WIFE: “CAN I BE OF ANY USE, DEAR?"
jame along next, and a reception was asked for
on his account. But the Mayor was inflexible.
“You see,” he Explained, “when Sir Charles
Halle came along I knew him quite well —in fact,
everybody did; but I really never heard of this
Mr. Tooley.” The title did it.
* # *
Act 1. Beautifully-moustachioed young
,well and a blushing beauty, his “sister-in-law,”
iving in peace together. Act 2 : Susceptible and
gilded old idiot appears on scene and proposes
marriage to the “ sister-in-law ” and (Act 3) is
accepted. Act 4 : The old idiot makes over a lot
of his property to his prospective wife, whose
brother-in-law draws out the settlement in a most
lawyer-like manner. Act 5 : Sheoh-
* * *
The Mayor of Goulburn (N.S.W.) is
obviously a good-natured man, but had he the
faintest sense of humour, he could not have
joined in passing Chadbandish resolutions bolster
ing up the Rev. (?) Andrew Gardiner, and setting
forth that Andrew aforesaid, “by the full and
unreserved confession of his transgression which
he made, and the consistent and godly life he has
since led” (“since” he got mixed up with that
Sunday-school teacher?), “is entitled to the
Utmost sympathy, and merits public cohfklenee
and support.” If the Reverend Andreiv Gardiner
were worthy of the confidence of even a cave-man,
ho would have more pluck, to say nothing about
more modesty, than to rush round the country
advertising that little love affair of his which paid
jails instead of dividends. “I (sob) led astray a
lady of my (sob) congregation, or at least allowed
.ier (sob) to.lead me astray. Then they fired me
jut and divorced me (sob), and ever since I have-
led a most (sob) godly life.” Why doesn’t Pastor
Gardiner shut up or, if he won’t shut up, clear out
of the gospel-trade ? Does he think it decent to
invade churches and pose before boys, women and
children, and Mayors, as the reformed rake and
purified divorce ? Hasn’t he any pitying friends
amongst that keenest and most level-headed of
ministries, the clergy of the Presbyterian Church,
who can induce him to refrain from making a
holy show of himself?
* * *
Gimlet was at the Melbourne Charities
Conference, the real original and only Gimlet. He
might have been modeller the Private Secretary,
“Do you know ?” He suffers so terribly from the
inflnenzah, wherefore he wears goloshes. He
came all the way from Sydney, and clasped the
knobby top of his umbrella.
* *
A good deal of the time of the Australian
Governors appears to be taken up in settling
Masonic squabbles. Anyone not a Mason doesn’t
know what a first-class hatred is.
* * _ . * ~
A while ago, when the Earl or Abernethy,
or some other cake, was on a visit to a cer-
tain Australian Chief Justice, the leading daily
sent over one of its legal reporters to interview
the old peer. His ring was answered by the C. J.
in person, looking fussier and more dishevelled
than he usually is when agitated by the arrival
of an aristocratic guest. Superciliously quoth the
over of a lord, “Oh,dear no ! you can t see his
ludship. Jon are a reporter, I presu • (
knew the legal note-taker as well as he knew his
own associate.) I ll not detain the eail moie
than ten minutes,” replied the disgusted scribe.
“ Well, the fact is, we are arranging the rooms
for the noble earl, and” (with a perky snigger)
“ you cannot he of any assistance in that, I fear.”
However, ultimately the newspaper-man sent in
his card and caught his quarry—who proved to be
: perfectly courteous, as, to do ’em justice, earls
usually are.
* * #
The Sydney Mayoral allowance for 1891
has been fixed at £lOOO. The Melbourne Mayoral
allowance is to be £l5OO. Some Sydney Aldermen
proposed to give their incoming Mayor an hono-
rarium of £2OOO, but this motion was lost. During
the discussion, Mayor Burdekin stated that he
would, if re-elected, gladly fulfil the duties of the
office gratis. After this, we presume, the next
thing will be for some enterprising alderman to
offer a big sum for the privilege of becoming
Mayor. In Europe, waiters pay for their places,
especially in quarters haunted by the aristo-
plutoci’acy. How much, we Wonder, could be
realised for the privilege of waiting upon the
aristo-plutocraoy at Sydney Town-hall?
* # #
The late Countess of Rosebery is remem-
bered in Australia as a happy, full-moon faced
charmer, who put on fewer frills than many
another female globe-trotter of less social im-
portance. Hannah de Rothschild did nothing in
particular except give her name to a filly that won
the St. Leger, and restore the battered fortunes
of a respectable young earl, but she was at least
an exception to Juvenal’s rule that “there is
nothing so intolerable as a rich woman.”
* * *
Howard Vernon was overhauled in Judges’
Chambers (Melb.) last week about a neglect of the
maxim, “Don’t go surety for a friend.” Our
Grand Inquisitor of the “ Gondoliers,” and Ko Eo
of the “ Mikado,” said a strange thing—viz., that
he gave the bulk of his money to his wife on an
agreement between them that she should not go
on the stage. Why do professionals hate it so?
The world is such a scene of villainy that every
man determines his son shall not follow his bitsi-
ness—except the lawyers. They go in like the
Chitty Family, or the Stephens, or the-but why
go all round the Mephistophelian regiment? *
* * *
Captain Austruther Thomson, Kin tore’s
aide, is reported to be engaged to the daughter of
a S.A. sporting celebrity—almost a millionaire
The lady is a well-known Adelaide beauty and
only just out of her teens. At this rate, England’s
nobility will soon be offering premiums to Gover-
nors for billets on the staff.
* * #
The blushing rose is an extensive medium
of grovel. A Hobart lady has propagated “ a
beautiful new variety” and christened it The
Marchioness of Lome. Flowers and pubs aro
generally named after the blessed Loyal Family.
* # #
The "Victorian Permanent Artillerymen
appear to relieve the monotony of their useless
existence by getting goods on time-paytnent and
denying their own identities when the second
instalment falls due.- A tradesman can’t distinguish
one man in buckram from another. They are like
Chinamen.
* * *
An old gentleman has been complainin'.- to
a London board of nuisances, or court of smells
or something, about the intolerable awfulness of
fried onions. He wanted an Act passed pro
hibiting the frying of onions within twenty yat d-
of any public thoroughfare. Hear, hear.
* # *
He crouched in a doorway for shelter;
He marked the rain’s pitiless pelter,
And peeped at the weather without.
The curl of his lip it was sneery
As he put to the tempest this queery :
“Now where is the Egeson drought ?”
* # *
Can it be true, as alleged, that a Sydney
Water and Sewerage Board man who, in the
course of his official duties came across some
buildings in course of erection in which the usual
notice and consequent “permit” had not been
given and obtained, and who reported the fact,
was dismissed from his situation because he re-
fused to make any distinction between the pro-
perty of high civic officials and that of other
people? A correspondent assures us that the
allegation is true, and adds that while a gilded
crowd, including the organiser of the dismissal,
were lunching sumptuously at the Town Hall, the
other day, the wife and children of the dismissed
man were actually starving.
# # #
Melbourne Evening Standard regaled its
readers with a most circumstantial account of the
hanging of Birchall in Canada. A journal which
has the gall to expect its subscribers to believe
that the “ firm step ” and the “ nervous twitching”
was really cabled half round the globe deserves to
pay big dividends.
* * #
la Adelaide, the city of churches, they
make the Destitute Asylum men go about in a
prison-like garb of moleskin breeches and pepper-
and-salt guernsey, and the women in bonnets and
gowns more hideous than those favoured by the
Salvation Army. Poverty is a crime, and nowhere
is it so hideous a crime as amongst the people who
“ travel ” on religion.
* # *
The Geelong Advertiser has just cele-
brated its 50th birthday, During the first gold-
fields rush, the Tiser was worth £20,000 a year.
By the way, the S.M. Herald has failed to
celebrate, or in any way to allude to, the fact that
it has just entered the 51st year of its existence
as a daily morning paper.
# # »
A new religious sect has started in Russia,
all the members (male and female) being clean-
shaved. A congregation without a single hair or
its aggregate head must be a surprising spectacle,
which would adorn the stalls of a leg-show theatre.
* * #
The supposed horsehair that hangs from
dragoon helmets is grown on Chinamen’s heads, it
appears. We mention this fact in justice to the
noble animal.
* * *
It is understood that there are a hundred
girls to each man employed in the gunpowder and
cartridge-factory at Footscray {Melb.) This
sounds rather embarrassing for the odd men.
* * *
The Bendigo magistrates are determined
to suppress rowdyism and obscene language. Is
the wife of a representative citizen listening?
* # *
At the present criminal trial of the
Premier Building Society people it takes hours
only to dispose of witnesses who were kept in the
box for days at Melbourne Police Court. Then,
the defendants’ counsel were merely talking
against time in the hope that they would talk
magistrate Panton into his coffin (as they nearly
did) and force the ease to die of exhaustion. Wit-
nesses are ticked-off quite smartly now. The
irrepressible Gaunson figures in the background
as legal adviser to Nimmo, who defends himself.
Poor old Jock’s line of cross-examination is short,
as a rule, and pathetic in its simplicity. “Do you
believe me to be an honest niah ?” asks Jock. He
gets an emphatic “ yes ” for an answer, and looks
around the court with an air of one who considers


-THE-
AUSTRALIAN MERCANTILE
LOAN & GUARANTEE CO., LD.
HEAD OFFICE
CORNER OF YORK AND MARKET STREETS.
BRANCHES
LONDON—IIO Cannon Street, E.C.
MELBOURNE-283 Collins Street E.
BRISBANE—Edward and Elizabeth Streets.
NEWCASTLE - 37 Hunter Street.
LONDON BOARD OF ADVICE
Lord Click H. Brown.
Hon. Vesey Fitzgerald.
Howard, John, Esq.
I'he Company grant Immediate Advances upon all Classes
of Mercantile or other Approved Securities.
Interest Allowed on Fixed Deposits
3 Months ... C per cent.
6 Months .... 7 per cent.
12 Months ... 8 per cent.
3 Years .... 0 per cent.
A MILLER ... General Manager.
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
Ladies’ Silver Watches, 355. Dahms & Co., King-street
Arcade.
WMY YOU SHOULD USE
Set It's Emulsion
OP Ooc3L Oil *na
HYPOPHOSPHITES.
It is used and endorsed by Physi-
cians because it is the best.
It is Palatable as Milk.
Zt is three times as efiieacious as plain
God Liver Oil.
It is far superior to all other so-called
Emulsions.
It is a perfect Emulsion, does net sepa-
rate or change.
It is wonderful as a flesh producer.
It is the best remedy for Consumption,
Scrofula, Bronchitis, Wasting Dis-
eases, Chronic Coughs and Colds.
Sold by all Chemists.
SCOTT & BOWNE, New York.
a aii
LL
Sent Post Free Everywhere.
HARD & HAMILTON, Auctioneers
70 Pitt Street. SYDNEY
the case settled so far as he is concerned. There is
a lot of sympathy shown for the venerable disciple
of Rabbie Burns*
* * *
They lately divided a Melbourne Presby-
terian parish in two, and the incumbent com-
plained they had left him “ only an artizan popu-
lation.” Only ! How much they love the ’Cray
’Anded !
# * *
A young lady has just arrived in one of
the Australias who was sent out from ’ome for
falling desperately in love with the family coach-
man—a married man with a family ! The lady is
heiress to a fortune, and belongs to a “noble”
family in England. The amusing part of the
story is that the cOachee aforesaid doesn’t recipro-
cate the romantic young thing’s love, and refuses
to run away just at present. There is a certain
amount of wild improbability about this part of
the novelette.
# * *
In connection with the Watson-Kitz case
it appeared that Mr. M‘Eacharn, one of the
trustees, strongly objected to young Kitz oh the
ground that there was insanity on his family. Mr.
M'Eacharn is married to one of .T. B. Watson’s
rich daughters, Miss Mary Ann Dalton Watson,
who, now that she is Mrs. M'Eacharn, signs her-
self “M. A. D. M'Eacharn.”
# * *
Motto for Mr. Kitz : Where there’s a tv ill
there’s a way—even if there’s a will in the way*
# # #
The Melbourne Unitarian authorities arc
looking for a preacher required to be “ about 30,
of good social address and appearance,” and
besides being a good earnest preacher and a
liberal thinker, he must be “ unmarried prefer-
ably.” Strong’s new “Australian Church” has
absorbed most of the former local Unitarian con-
gregation
* * *
At a recent food-distribution to the poof
by the Sydney Relief Committee one of the appli-
cants was a hollow-eyed, sUnken-cheeked lad aged
12 years. His plea for alms was that “Father
and mother are dead, and I look after the chil-
dren.” There were five of them—the youngest
only 18 months old.
* * *
The Governors’ wives had really better
Stay in Australia and watch their husbands. One
of these haughty potentates the other day sailed
up to a pretty woman on a big A ustralian race-
course—a woman to whom he had never been
introduced in his life—and said, after much
diplomatic ogling : “ Haw! How do you do, I
am—att — So glad to see you ?” The lady says that
she supposes this is his idea nf how to lead
society.
u * *
A Sydney madman has just mortally cut his
throat because he insanely thought that Sir Alfred
Stephen wanted to hang him* Cod bless the Lieu-
tenant-Governor of NiS. Wales !
* # *
Captain O’Shea has been given the charge
of his children, and costs have been awarded
against co-respondent Parnell. This reminds us
that last week the Sydney Judge in Divorce
awarded a successful petitioner the charge of the
fifteen children. What a reward for virtue !
# * *
The other clay a small dispute occurred
between the successful candidate and the man who
got him in, and has been using him as a sandwich-
man. “My dear fellow,” said the promoter of the
show, “considei’ingthat it was I who helped you into
Parliament, you should surely help me to pay the
election-expenses.” “But I haven't a cent, ’ re-
turned the member. “Well,” said the other,
“ can’t you alienate a part of your Parliamentary
screw ! Surely you won’t kick away the ladder
by which you climbed!” “ Certainly not,” replied
the member, “take away the ladder yourself.”
* # *
Adelaide Observer publishes every week
some three or four columns of short, jerky obser-
vations which it calls “ Crumbs. They are
mostly plain and solemn and about nothing in
particular. Last week, for example, it set up
these three cabalistic utterances in close marching
order, and then left them in all their hollow
nakedness before the public eye :
Ellen Cunningham was a slim, intelligent, comely girl.
The Rev. H. Gilmore is ill with muscular rheumatism.
Jane Cunningham is a rather prepossessing young
woman.
There is no further explanation, and these sen-
tences may be either a dull, uninteresting state-
ment, or a low, beastly insinuation, for all the
reader is likely to discover. Yet, unless the Rev.
H. Gilmore was out with the two ladies when he
caught his rheumatism there seems to be no pos-
sible reason why he should be held up to the
public gaze in this unseemly manner.
* * *
Have you ever studied the effect of dress
on women’s manners ?
A Varied Career,
[FOR THE BULLETIN.)
It was m the broken basalt country . of the Lynd
River, near the Gilbert River, that I first came
across George. The Gilbert goldfield had just
been opened, so you may pretty well fix the year
for yourself. As for me, I forget the date. I was
quite a youngster then, but am nervous about
reckoning back. It was the Very year that
“ Three-fingered Jack a rare old horse-thief —
stuck up the manager of Lyndhurst station, under
the impression that he was the “ gold escort ” from
the Gilbert. It was at Lyndhurst station, in fact,
that I met, George, who was then a “colonial
experiencer.”
There Were Something less than. a hundred
diggers then on the Gilbert. There was no
troopers’ camp there. A bank—l think it was the
Bank of New South Wales—had opened a sort of
loose agency to buy gold from the diggers, and
the bank-agent used periodically to take in the
gold to Townsville. So that, for a speculative
bushranger like Three-fingered Jack, the sticking-
up of the gold escort seemed a “soft thing.”
Three-fingered Jack had earned his nickname by
having two fingers and a thumb shot off his left
hand by a trooper whom Jack at one time had
failed to convince that the horse he was then
riding was his own. I last heard of the redoubt-
able Three-fingers as being in gaol. He is either
there still, or in heaven.
THE MELBOURNE MARRIAGE QUESTION.
ANXIOUS FATHER: “MARRY MY DAUGHTER EDITH-THERE’S NO
BRAIN-DISEASE IN YOUR FAMILY, I HOPE?”
ADOLPHUS: “NOT EXACTLY.”
ANXIOUS FATHER: “NONE OF YOUR RELATIVES ADDICTED TO
THINKING!”
ADOLPHUS: “NO.”
ANXIOUS FATHER: “THEN TAKE HER AND BE HAPPY.”
' Lyndhurst Station was then managed by a
little man named Smith (real name, though un-
common). Smith wore specs.— rather a noticeable
thing in the bush. George, as I have said, was a
“ colonial experiencer. ” . He was a big, strapping
fellow, muscular-looking, and fierce—a striking
contrast to Manager-Smith. Smith, I believe, is
still alive, and sugar-growing on either the
Clarence or Richmond—at least, that is the last
tally I heard of. George is in Limbo, as you will
see.
Lyndhurst Station was a short and easy day’s
journey from Gilberton, and the “ gold-escort
'one man-used generally to contrive to camp
there the first night of his journey towards Towns-
ville. He trusted mostly to the secrecy of the
date of his departure. But an end came to this
habit. A new “ escort,” like Smith, of Lynd-
hurst, also wore specs. George, who was a practical
joker, persuaded Smith —a rather touchy man—
that the new bank-agent wore specs, only to mock
him, and got the escort to believe that Smith was
taking him off by similar mimicry. So it came to
pass that the new man got to avoiding Lyndhurst
and used to go on a few miles to the next water —
Bundock Creek—and camp there.
Three-fingered Jack, foxing around Gilberton,
made sure of the day on which the “gold-escort ”
would leave there. Further, lie had learned from
an old resident that the “escort” invariably
stopped at Lyndhurst station for the first night—
as indeed, had been the case previously, though
not so then. More, he took a note of the fact
that the “escort” wore specs. Also, ho did not
know that the manager of Lyndhurst station like-
wise wore specs. So, when he “stuck up” Spec-
tacled Smith later on, he thought he was “going
for ” the “gold-escort.”
Smith and George were seated at dinner one
evening, when Three-fingered Jack rushed in and
covered the pair of them, yelling; ‘ ‘ Throw up
your hands.” Smith, like the gamecock he was,
sprang at Jack’s throat like a tiger-cat, the two
men rolled over, Jack’s pistol went off, and
wounded Smith slightly. Jack got clean away.
He afterwards used to say : “The pesant did
me, cos I couldn’t see his eyes. With them four
eyes of his, I couldn’t tell he was going to show
fight. As for the big fellow ! ”
At the very first scruff, George disappeared out-
side. When Three-fingered Jack had escaped, he
rushed back again, armed to the teeth, and roar-
ing for blood and murder. He explained that he
had rushed out to get his “ shooting-irons ” from
his saddle. He forgot that there were arms in the
next room ! Had he assisted little Smith, Three-
fingered Jack would there and then have been
secured.
# * *
Old Gulf men will remember the local excite-
ment and the fearful stories told, hushedly, when
a remnant only of a party overlanding from Port
Darwin, Northern Territory, came into a port on
the north-eastern coast of Queensland. The white
man who got through was George. He explained
that he had “ lost Massinger off the track, while
skirmishing round for water.” I wasn’t up that
way then, and heard no fuller particulars.
# * *
Again, Gulf men will remember how Nathan
and another went “out” looking for country
“for a syndicate.” Only one man returned.
People said he “left his mate, Nathan, to die.”
He certainly completed the business of the expedi-
tion alone. He was George.
# # *
All Queensland well remember the notorious
doings of a “Government Agent,” in connection
with the Polynesian Labour Traffic, and the sen-
sational evidence he gave before some Pacific
Commissioners, and the general idea that pre-
vailed that he escaped formal implication in pro-
ceedings against piracy and kidnapping by
methods usually regarded as mean, cowardly and
treacherous. That notoriety was George.
* # *
Extract from an Australian paper, 20th Novem-
ber, 1800: —
The murder of George De Latour and his son at Ouro
Island was notified to the commander of H.M.S. Royalist,
some time ago. The Royalist went to Latour’s station,
having previously obtained witnesses in the case. Three
prisoners were secured, and were landed with about SO
seamen and marines. The captain had previously ex-
amined all the native witnesses, and, the prisoners having
acknowledged their guilt, all hands were mustered round
Latour’s grave. The captain, through the missionary,
who interpreted, told the men that they had been found
'guilty of murder, and would be shot. The prisoners Were
blindfolded and lashed to separate trees. One of them
named Thor, Who had planned the imtrdcr, and actually
shot the De Latours in their beds, did not budge a footi
but the other two, who were really his tools, struggled-
The firing party was divided into three sections, and at
the order “Fire” the prisoners were shot, death being
instantaneous. Really the cause of the murder, and the
person who originally planned it, was a blaokwoman,
Latour’s housekeeper. She was present at the execution,
but showed not the slightest concern.
Thus has closed a varied career.
THE DIPSOMANIAC.
Says the Chicago Herald, under the
heading “His Lordship has a Mission” : —“Lord
J. Henniker Heaton is at the Auditorium Hotel.
Unlike many distinguished Englishirien who visit
thes.e shores Lord Heaton has a mission. He is a
reformer, believes in cheaper postage and wants
Uncle Sam to reduce the rate on letter-postage
from five to two cents. Lord Heaton is a pro-
gressive Conservative, a member of the famous
CobdenClubandahighprotectionist.” (!!) Saysthe
Chicago Evening Post This is probably the
last visit of Mr. Heaton to America. The same
body and soul may come back, but under the name
of Lord Warrane, it being the intention of the
Imperial Government to elevate him to the
peerage. ”
London Spectator says that Cardinal
Moran, Archbishop Carr, and all the followers of
the Scarlet Woman in Australia are _ secretly
plotting for Republicanism. The science of
polities in a country where people are divided on
the Pope and King Billy Question is very much
like that of driving pigs along a jetty into a ship.
If you try to drive your pig to the ship direct
the brute will run ashore; so you must try to
drive him ashore if you would have him hasten to
the ship. Tell the crowd who bow to the East
that the people who bow to the West are Imperial-
ists, and the. former will howl for the blood of all
the kings of earth. The Spectator man evidently
knows this. We could name him in three tries.
Parkes has pretendedly prided in the
possession, by N.SiW., of Broken Hill. Yet the
herve-centres of that rich region are Adelaide and
Melbourne. South Australia has tapped the
Barrier Ranges with its railway-system, and
diverted to itself the traffic of the district. It is a
Melbourne syndicate that is to levy water-rates on
the busy silver city. NiS.W. is simply nowhere,
for Broken Hill can’t live on the spent gas of
Parkes. South Australia, we further notice, is
shaping to similarly tap the back-blocks of Queens-
land by running a line from Leigh’s Creek, S.A.,
to Innamincka, on the border between the two
colonies; and, again, to leech West Australia by
a sucker of iron rails from Port Augusta, S.A.,
to the border of _the latest emancipated Australian
colony*
The new Maoriland electoral regulations
provide for the striking off the rolls of electors
who do not reply to the printed and registered
forms of objection sent them by those who would
deprive them of voting-power. A printed notice
on the envelopes bearing these objections directs
that, if not forwarded within fifteen days, the
letter shall be returned to the electoral registrar.
Knowing that thousands may have changed their
residences or live far removed from any post-
office, and have little chance of knowing that
letters await them at the nearest, the Tories, in
the squatting interest, have taken the opportunity
to disfranchise hundreds of working-men, whose
addresses were, in many instances, changed since
the last compilation of the electoral roll over three
years ago. The regulations give the registrar
power to remove names from the roll up to elec-
tion-day, while no names can be put on or re-
instated within a month before polling day.
Premier Parkes has called upon Mr.
Willis,’M.L. A., to show cause why he should not
be removed from the list of N.S.W. Justices of
the Peace for having published in his paper an
alleged letter from an anonymous writer urging
the trades-unionists each to get a good repeating-
rifle and 200 rounds of ball-cartridge prior to
laying down their proposals for the “re-construc-
tion of society.” Willis’s paper makes answer
that it does not necessarily approve of the opinions
expressed in every letter it publishes—-this in spite
of the fact that only last week it tried to fasten
on to The Bulletin certain political opinions ex-
pressed in a correspondent’s letter. Leaving this
latter fact out of the question, one thing is certain
—Willis was simple to publish the letter cited by
Parkes, as he thereby handed himself over, bound
hand and foot, to the wily old man, and em-
powered the latter to visit him with all sorts of
pains and penalties, including the forfeiture of the
amounts for which his securities against sedition
and so on are responsible. Particularly was he
foolish to publish an anonymous letter in such
terms.


Publications, &c.
IN A WEEK 100,133 CITIZENS of SYDNEY
—VISITED—
OYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE
(Next Royal Hotel),
6EOEGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Thousands honoured Mr. Dyinock with a visit
Oh Saturday night, and were delighted with the
Promenade Conceit. Congratulations still con-
tinue to come in by every post. Some say it is a
booh t.o the pity, others, it is marvellous, and all
agtee :t,-is $ sight well tvorth seeing .. ;
Haifa million of Books on Vlevvl
meaning 20 miles, comprising
Law
Architecture
Engineering
Mechanical
Natural History
Political
Biography
Fiction ■ ,
&c.,
History
Medical
Travel
Australian History
Presentation Books
Educational
Foreign Languages
Illustrated Books
&c. . i
Every book you want in any department may
be had at this vast Book Emporium, where all
books are marked in plain figures, no one asked to
buy, no officious librarian to interfere with you.
Everyone invited to inspect the stock.
Mr. Dymock would also like to draw the atten-
tion of business men to his unrivalled Stock of
Stationery, unsurpassed in Australia. The ladies’
wants have not been overlooked, 25 per cent, can
be saved, and a superior selection to any establish-
ment in Sydney of elegant and fashionable sta-
tionery, combined with utility. On Sale
MUgIC Music MUSIC
fwb and a-quarter,Tons of Popular -Music still remains,
J • and will be offered this week at
, Two Shillings a Dozen I- worth 18s, ■
XMAS CARDS XMAS CARDS
j i ,■ j , . Five Vanloads to select from,.
Surpassing all other Stock in Sydney. No Old Stock. All
this year's cards at prices that must delight and surprise all.
PACKET OF XMAS QARDS.
The Marvellous Packet will again be offered. ,
fSiT", 50 Beautiful Cards (post, free), Is.; 25 ditto, fid.
Cards from Id. to £5 each. 20,000 Booklets to select from
Eight Bouts a Day is Mr. Dymock's Principle!
And he lias, at great expense, engaged two com-
plete and,efficient staffs, so that no employe will
be asked to work more than-the legitimate eight
hours. Such enterprise deserves success, and Mr.
Dymock feels sure that the reading classes of
Sydney will support him in this new venture.
Books Bought, Sold or Exchanged.
, Libraries Pitrchased.
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE,
fcIEORGtE STREET, SYDNEY.
To he Immediately Published:
*2fl MIDDLE HARBOUR and other Verse;’
(Chiefly Australian)
By THOMAS HENEY.
London : Kegan, Paul, Trench, Triloner arid 00.
Priced Four Shillings.
In this volume, the writer has endeavoured to con-
vey his vivid impreasioris of the life and landscape
of the pastoral regions. Mindful of the admirable
work in such books as Mr. Farrell’s “ How He
Hied,” and in the columns of some of the weekly
papers, the writer does not claim to have entered
an unoccupied field, but thinks it will be admitted,
by those acquainted with the scenes and persons
of his verse, that it is faithful to the virile and
picturesque characteristics of the life of the station,
and the powerful and strange scenery of pas-
toral territory. In a series of eight rhymed
poems, in three blank-verse poems, and in other
verse, it is sought to suggest the dominant features
of this free and vigorous life. In “ A Squatter of
’68,” an effort has been made to seize the dramatic
moments of the career of a pioneer squatter driven
under. “Pioneer” is an episode of the opening
of new country in South Queensland. Such poems
as “The Boundary Rider,” “At the Tank before
Day,” “The Groom’s Hut,”and “In the Lignum,”
are descriptive. Two poems, “The Shearer”
and “Found Dead,” outline two of the tragedies
of the bush. In these and other verses, the writer
has endeavoured to utilise his knowledge of local
colour derived from residence and travel. The
poem from which the book gets its name is a
lengthy blank-verse study of camping-out, in
which opportunity is taken to introduce a sketch
of one of the most striking incidents of bush-life.
Of the miscellaneous verse not otherwise specified,
suffice it to say it includes ten sonnets, and
several poems of lyrical movement. The contents
of the volume are so far new that they have not
previously been published. They will make a book
of about 112 pages, which can be procured through
the leading booksellers as soon as copies are re-
ceived from London. Of the writer’s previous
book, so competent a critic as Mr. Francis Adams
wrote in warm terms in the Queenslander of
4th December, 1886, reprinted from Brisbane
Courier of immediately previous date. This
review was re-published in the most important
Riverina newspapers.
'VXTANTED, Smart and Energetic AGENTS
* " who are desirous of making an easy and
comfortable income, averaging One Pound per
Day. Apply at once, as time is money.
Historical Publishing Co.,
P.O. Box 610, SYDNEY.
NOTICE,
T ADY OLIVA’S STEP-DAUGHTERS.
Li A New Novel. By the Author of “ Dulce’s
Legacy,” &c., is commenced in
U AMILY HERALD PART for SEPTEMBER,
I Which contains also the continuation of
“VOUNG, AND SO FAIR!”
X A New Novel. By the Author of “Those
Irish Eyes,” “The Cost of Her Fancy,” &c.
Also, complete Stories, Essays, Answers to
Correspondents, Cookery, Miscellanea, Enigmas,
Charades, Riddles, &o.
n AMILY HERALD PART for SEPT EMBER.
1’ The Australasian says
“This favourite domestic magazine retains aP
its old interest and variety.”
The
FAMILY HERALD may bo had in Half-yearly
Volumes and in Monthly Parts of all Colonial
Booksellers and Newsagents ; or the Monthly Part
direct from W. Stevens, 421 Strand, London,
England, for 14s. per annum, post free.
London: W. Stevens, 421 Strand; and at all
New’s vendors.
Furniture, etc.
John Lawler & Sons,
Wire Mattress and Bedding Manufacturers,
Upholsterers and Cabinet Makers, Im-
porters of Bedsteads, Chairs, Furniture,
Carpets and Floorcloths,
608 Geoi'ge Street, Sydney, "la
Price List & Illustrated Catalogue Post Free.
Established 18()0.
A Strong Balcony Cane
Chair ~12/6
A Strong Long Balcony i.
Lounge 15/
FOR Austrian, American
and Cane CHAIRS,
Bamboo Blinds, Garden and
Balcony Seats; for, Camp
Folding Bedsteads, ■ with
Woven Wire Spring Mat-
tresses, 20/ r,. «
Go to LAWLER’S,
608 George-street.
USTRIAN CHAIR
(full size), ss,
For carpets,
LINOLEUMS,
FLOORCLOTHS, Rugs,
Mats, Blinds, Matting,
Kapok, Upholsterers’ Ma-
terials, Plushes, Tapes-
tries, Gimps and Cords.
Go td v
LAWLER’S,
008 George-st.
Established 1860.
Illustrated Catalogue
Post Free.
m
f
WOOD . SEAT
.CHAIR, Black
or White, 2s 9d.
For toilet sets,
CHINA, GLASS-
WARE, Dinner and Tea
Sets, Cups and Saucers,
Cruets, Mangles, Cutlery
and Plated-ware, Copper
Boilers and Stoves.
Co to
LAWLER’S,
6()8 George-street,
Brickfield Hill.
Telephone 6ft.
CHEST of DRA.WERS,
Seveh Drawers in
all, as design shows;
brackets at front, locks,
keys, etc. —
Cedar, pine lined,
47/6, 50/- 55/-
If White Pine polished,
47/6, 50/-, 65/-
Designs of other and
costlier Chests of Drawers
upon application.
4
ft
Dressing chests,
with Glass fixed—
Cedar, pine lined,
£2 15/- £3 15/-
White Pine, polished,
£2 2/6 £2 15/-
For bedsteads,
CHILDREN’S COTS,
Cornices, Window Draperies
and Overmantels, Toilet
Glasses, Ice Chests, Filters
and Cane Lounges.
Go to LAWLER’S,
608 George-street.
Established 1860.
B
EDDINGr, best quality—
Mattresses, flock
~ Java k
J ava kapok, extrasuper.,
sin. borders, d. thick.
Hair Mattresses, extra
super., 2/ per lb.
Bolsters, hair
~ kapok
Pillows, kapok (lar #
~ white Irish goose
feathers
f
We Manufacture a
TRADE QUALITY
BEDDING, which
we can SELL at 25
per cent, less than
the above prices, but
we do not care to
recommend it.
AWLER’S TOILET
Band .and Line, full number
of pieces, 8/6
White and Gold, large sets, full
number pieces, 15/ set
Fancy and Gold, do. 17/6, 21/
Plain Printed Sets, do. 9/6 10/6
Handsome and effective sets,
25/- 35/- 45/- 55/
SETS
U4JTM1 V.
Fj
*■»/
tCMLAWl
i’i -
c
elebbated
“ OHEAVIN’S ”
RAPID water FILTERS,
From 11s lid to 28s.
J
OHN LAWLER
AND SONS,
Wire Mattress and Bedding
[Manufacturers,
Upholsterers and Cabinet-
Makers,
608 George Street, Sydney.
fERTABMSHTtn 1860]
Amusements.
J£ER MAJESTY’S THEATRE.
Lessee and Manager Mr. Geo. Rignold.
Doors open at 7. Commence 7.45. Carriages at 10.40.
A PHENOMENAL AND UNQUALIFIED SUCCESS.
EVERY EVENING, at 7.45,
TflE MERRY WIVES OF WINDSOR.
iox Office at Theatre from 10 to 5. Prices as usual.
J. P. Macdonald, Acting-Manager.
QRITERION THEATRE-
Under the Management of Messrs. Broitgh and Bouoieault.
Acting Manager ... Mr. H. J. Magee.
IMMENSE SUCCESS!.) IMMENSE SUCCESS!
„ of the , . .
, Brough-Boucicault Comedy Company
in the Latest ahd Greatest London Success, where, it has
just completed a; most successful run at the Avenue
, Theatre, and in which •».
MISS MYRA KEMBLE
will make her reappearance after an absence of two years,
entitled,
Dr. Bill. Dr. Bill.
Prices—ss, 3s, 2s and Is. Box Plan at Nicholson’s.
Theatre royal
Lessee Mr. S. Lazar.
Treasurer Mr. Geo. L. Goodman.
Under the direction of Mr. GEORGE MUSGROVE.
LAST NIGHTS! LAST NIGHTS!
of
Mrs. POTTER and Mr. BELLEW
i,n
HERO AND LEANDEfI.
Prices of Admission—ss., 3s. and ONE SHILLING.
' ■ ~ 1 ' . /•
C Y C LO R A. nVX A..
The Battle of Gettysburg.
Jpst added. New and Wonderful Effects;—Bugle Calls
Capnonading, Musketry Firing. Military Band every After-
noon and Evening. The Battlefield by Night: Gathering
up thp wounded in the gloom of night. The Dead March.
The Stonp: Thunder, Lightning, Rain. Special effects,
3 and 8 p.m. No matter if you have seen the Cyclorama
before, come again and see the wonderful effects. Bring
the children.
Lectures hourly, open daily, lo to 10.
ONLY A SHILLING NOW!
Children Half-Price.
GRANDEST SIGHT IN AUSTRALIA.
jg O N D I AQUARIUM.
OPEN t)i A Y AND NIGHT.
.. SATURDAY, 29th NOVEMBER,
GRAND MOtJNTEDi SwORD CONTEST,
J. DbNOYAN v. tIAPT. JENNINGS,
For the Championship of the World, and a Purse of £lOO,
presented by the Management.
Lessee and Manager ALFRED WYBURD.
fJOOGEE PALACE AQUARIUM.
W Lessee .... .... Wm. Larmour.
Grand Classical and Sacred Concert every
SUNDAY AFTERNOON at 4 and SUNDAY NIGHT at 8.
Select Dance every Wednesday Night at 8.
Grand Complimentary Benefit on Saturday Afternoon,
13th December, to the well-known athlete,
IV. F. CORBETT.
Come and see the Wild Buffaloes, Spanish Donkeys.
Sharks, Eagles, Kangaroos, 500 Fish, &c., &o.
HARRIETT’S WORD COMPETITIONS.
First prize, £6; second, £4; third, £3;
fourth, £2; fifth, £l. Second competition now
open for most different English words formed
from the letters in the word BOASTINGLY.
No letter to be used twice in any word. All
words must be in standard dictionaries. Obsolete
words and plurals excluded. Closes December 31.
Send early numbered lists, with 2s uncut stamps,
to Madam HARRIETT, Box 214, G.P.0.,
Sydney. Results advertised.
rnHE NOAH’S ARK! Gilbert J. Smith,
Wig Maker, Theatrical and Fancy Costumier,
Wigs, Historical and Fancy Dresses, Tights, Stage Jewel-
lery, and every requisite for Stage or Ball for Sale or Hire
or Made to Order. Estimates given for Dressing or Staging
Operas, Dramas, Comedies, Bazaars, Carnivals, etc., etc.
Grease, Paints and Make-up of every description. Country
orders receive prompt attention.
GILBERT .1. SMITH, Theatrical Costumier,
(opposite Criterion Theatre,)
297 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Miscellaneous.
LU KS’ VICTORIA HOTEL,
Auckland, N.Z.,
Still in the hands of the old and well-known proprietor.
Bound to no man. Only the choicest liquors.
Secllmayr’s Bavarian “ Spateu,” “Export”
and “Tafel” Lager— SPECIALITY.
jg-ATOOMBA FAMILY HOTEL.
JOSEPH NIMMO.
First-class Accommodation for Tourists and Families
Wires and Letters to be addressed “Proprietor.”
Arrangements can be made to provide transit for persons
wishing to view the celebrated .leiiolaii Eaves and
other places of interest.
LADIES,
CONSULT the Eminent
Specialist,
Dr. SPEER, 29 York-st.,
Sydney.
PILLS (Guaranteed), 55., post free.
JAPANESE & INDIAN SHOW-ROOMS,
5W5 tieorgc Street, Sydney.
(Next Elvy’s Music Warehouse),
Inspection Invited.
Japanese and China Silks and Crepes, Screens, Tables,
Fans, Curtains, Trays, Easels, Quilted Silk Dressing Gowns
Cotton Crapes, Piano Drapes, Blue Cloth for Dresses and
Suits, China, Tea Sets, Cabinets, etc. Miss Nellie Stewart’s 1
Miss Janet Achurch’s, Mrs. Brown-Potter’s and Mr. Bellew’s
Photos.
A. lIOWXE A €<>., 325 George-st., Sydney.
Tasmania. Messrs, fttzgerald
BROS., Launceston, Sole Wholesale Agents
for the sale of The Bulletin and “A Golden
Shanty,” Price, One Shilling* Postage 3d. extra
Furniture, &c.
N AN D LAM B.
FURNITURE and PIANOFORTE
WAREHOUSEMEN,
CABINETMAKERS, UPHOLSTERER^
AND
BEDDING MANUFACTURERS.
SHOW BOOMS AND MANUFACTORY:
SPRING AND O’CONNELL STREETS.
'ft
&
EASY CHAIRS, for Parlour, Library, or Bed-
rooms, new designs, covered to order, in
any material.
PIANOFORTES, by R. LIPP and SOHN,
L. NEUFELD and other Celebrated
Makers at WHOLESALE PRICES. Newton
and Lamb.
BAGATELLE BOARDS, Portable, various
sizes.
BEDROOM SUITES, complete,, in variphs
■ Woods, and very, handsome designs, with
7 feet Wardrobes, or with smaller Wardrobes for
single rooms. Great variety.
NEWTON and LAMB,
Furniture Warehousemen,
SPRING AND O’CONNELL STREETS.
BEDROOM SUITES, fashionable early
English designs—Wardrobe 4 feet, with
silvered plate-glass door : Washstand, with marble
top and tile back, Towel Rail; Toilet Table,
with Swing_ Glass attached; and Two Caine-
Seated Chairs, 14 guineas.
NEWTON & LAMB,
O’Connell and SpbiNg Streets!,
f
CANVAS . FOLDING
COTS, for camping
out. A cheap occasional
bed light, strong, ahd
handy, 10s. 6d.
Newton & Lamb.
DINING- TABLES, with patent extending
screws, from 5 feet long and up to 20 feet.
TITALNUT TELESCOPIC DINING
T T TABLES with extra leaves, strongly
made, £3 10s.
Hall furniture, hatstands and
CHAIRS. LARGE ASSORTMENT.
NEWTON & LAMB.
r IBRARY FURNITURE, CENTRE and
±J SIDE TABLES, BOOKCASES, . SECRE-
TARIES, READING and LOUNGE CHAIRS.
COMMODE CHAIRS, BIDETS, with Pan,
SHAVING STANDS, NEWTON and
LAMB.
JAPANESE BLINDS, White or Green (extra
quality), fitted with pulleys and cord, 6xB,
6s. 6d. ; 8 x 8, 95.; 9 xB, 9s, 6d. ; 10 xB, 10s. 6d.;
12 xB, 12s. 6d.; 12 x 10, 15s. Newton & Lamb,
Furniture Warehousemen, Spring and O’Connell
Streets.
EASY CHAIRS for Parlour, Library or Bed-
rooms. New Designs covered to order in
any material. Newton & Lamb.
Self-adjusting chair and couch,
for Invalids and Medical Men.
R
OCKING EASY CHAIRS, elegant and
restful —a speciality. Newton & Lamb.
f
A
USTRIAN
CHAIRS
in
GREAT VARIETY
NEWTON & LAMR
ti
cJUL
ANYAS FOLDING
CHAIRS.
Substantial and Light.
Suitable for Shipboard and
Verandah.
Price Very Low.
NEWTON and LAMB
Furniture Warehousemen,
Spring and O Connell Streets.
("1 AUDEN SEATS, 6ft. long, Rustic Cast-iron
X Standards, 14s. 6d., 195., 255., 325. (id.
Newton and Lamb.
Yerandah chairs.
INDIAN LONG ARM LOUNGES.
Rattan verandah lounges, from
155.; and large variety of Chairs, from
10s. (id.; special designs, extra quality. Newton
and Lamb, Furniture Warehousemen, Spring and
O’Connell Streets.
•XT EWT 0 N AND LA MB.
FURNITURE and PIANOFORTE
WAR EHOUSEMEN,
CABINETMAKERS, UPHOLSTERERS.
and
BEDDING MANUFACTURERS.
Show Rooms and Manufactory:
SPRING and O’CONNELL STREETS.


Notice to Artistic and Literary Contributors.
Strictly Original matter contributed to The Bulletin
will be paid for. The Editor wilt be glad to receive and
consider contributions as under
1. Original humorous or political matter, illustrated or
other wise, ( Drawings must be made in clean lines
of Indian ink on white paper or Bristol-board.)
S, Unpublished anecdotes of living celebrities, or people
who ought to be celebrated.
5. Humorous poems (from eight to forty-eight lines pre-
ferred ).
4. Serious poems , of similar or greater length, especially
those suitable for pictorial illustration.
5, Short Australian or other stories, up to, say, &QQ -
words. About half that length, or even less, wi 1,
be preferred.
All Contributions must be Written Legibly, on OJi8
Side Only of the paper, and folded, not rolled. The
name- and address of the writer must appear, in all
cases, on the MS. itself, and not merely on an accompany-
ing letter or paper. The Proprietors do not hold them-
selves responsible for Rejected Contributions; but, if
accompanied by a stamped and addressed envelope or
wrapper, every effort will be made to return them.
The Editor does not undertake to enter into any
correspondence respecting rejected Manuscripts,
Insist upon having Wolfe’s Schnapps,
Bay Wolfe’s Schnapps by the bottle.
If asked to drink, call for Wolfe’s Schnapps.
Recommended by doctors—Wolfe’s Schnapps.
m
>
y
r
AYER’S PII/LS are unsurpassed as a
remedy for constipation, biliousness, sick-head-
ache, dyspepsia, jaundice, and the common
derangements of stomach, liver, and bowels.
They break up colds, mitigate fevers, relievo
gout, rheumatism, and neuralgia, cleanse the
system of malarial poison, and assist In the
formation of pure, rich blood. These well-
known pills are compounded of the essential
virtues of the best vegetable cathartics, and
contain neither calomel nor any other deleteri-
ous drug. They may, therefore, be adminis-
tered in all cases where a purgative is needed,
without fear of ill oifects. Being sugar-coated,
they are pleasant to take, and their medicinal
strength is preserved for an indefinite period
and in any climate. They should be in every
d-—'"stio medicine chest and traveller’s satchel.
Ayer’s Pills,
,j PREPARED BY *
Dr. J. C. AYER & CO., Lowell, Mass., U. S. A.
Sold by Druggists and Medicine Vendors.
Shipping.
JJORDDEUTSC H ErT LLOYD.
IMPERIAL GERMAN MAIL.
Passengers are carried according to the requirements of
the English Passenger Acts of 1856 and 1863.
MONTHLY LINE OF DIRECT STEAMERS
from
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, and ADELAIDE,
to SOUTHAMPTON, ANTWERP, and BREMEN, via
COLOMBO, Aden, Suez, and Genoa,
taking passengers for London,
connecting from PORT SAID by DIRECT MAIL and
PASSENGER LINE to BRINDISI,
will be despatched as follows (if practicable):—
And thereafter every four weeks.
PASSAGE MONEY from SYDNEY,
£l4 to £57 10s.
riOMPAGNIE DES MESSAGERIES MARI*
V TIMES.
SYDNEY to LONDON.
OVERLAND FROM MARSEILLES via PARIS.
Steamers under postal contract with the Government of
France, calling at MELBOURNE ADELAIDE, KING i
GEORGE’S SOUND, MAKE, SUEZ, and PORT SAID.
Passengers booked to KURRACHEE, BOMBAY, |
Mauritius, ami east coast of Africa.
The service is carried on by powerful steamers of 4000
tons and 3000 effective h.p., built expressly for the Aus-
tralian and New Caledonian line, which will be despatched
as follows;
And thenceforward on the 25th of each month.
Rates of passage-money to Marseilles from £2O to £65,
including table wines and Suez Canal dues on passengers,
RETURN TICKETS issued at the following rates:—
London on arrival of steamers at Marseilles, at d accom-
pany t hem to Paris and Calais. N. R. Passengers’ luggage
conveyed free of cost from Marseilles to London. For
freight, passage, and further particulars apply at the
Company's Office, 15 Maequarie-plaoe.
A. CONIL, Principal Agent.
Wolfe’s Schnapps—It is grand.
The popular liquor—Wolfe’s Schnapps.
'•gt>*2 «a<»3Q eOlh&tusNrußlr.fc imo'3
(LIMITED)
IS the most complete and perfect Instrument ' ever; offered 'at the" priooj
Seven Octaves. Fuji Trichord. Iron Frame. Patent Check Action. Boras’
Pin Plate, Cross-strung, requiring only the minimum of tuning. The tons'
to powerful, clear, brilliant and purer In very elegant Black and Gold u»
Walnut Casern’’
This Piano is introduced by W, PI. PALIXQ 4 CO . Li virtu,' for tha
purpose of meeting a long-felt demand for a good, reliable instrument at an
easy price, and thereby giving to the head of almost every household an
opportunity of supplying hia home with a Erstoclaas Piano at a price heretofore
I paid for a* much inferior instrument
An exhilarating cordial is Wolfe’s Schnapps.
Wolfe’s Schnapps will make you a new man.
ƒ
SAPOLIO
f
To clean tombstones.
To polish knives.
To clean dishes.
To renew oil-cloth.
To scrub floors.
To whiten marble.
To renovate paint.
To wash out sinks.
To remove rust.
To brighten metals.
To scour bath-tubs.
To scour kettles.
EVERYBODY USES IT.
Dentists to clean false teeth,
Surgeons to polish their instrument!
Confectioners to scour their pans.
Mechanics to brighten their tools.
Cooks to clean the kitchen sink.
Painters to clean off surfaces.
Engineers to clean parts of machines.
Ministers to renovate old chapels.
Sextons to clean the tombstones.
Hostlers on brasses and white horses.
Artists to clean their palattes.
Wheelman to clean bicycles.
Housemaids to scrub marble floors.
Chemists to remove some stains.
Carvers to charpen their knives.
Shrewd ones to scour old straw hatS
Soldiers to brighten their arras.
Renovators to clean carpets.
EVERY ONE FINDS A NEW USE-
BOLD BY GROCEES, CHEMISTS, AND IRONMONGERS
First Quality, Men’s Tweed Suits - 335.
Extra Quality, do. do* 40s.
Special Quality do. 50s.
X Send for Samples.
Shopping by Post
THE CELEBRATED
ORIENT CLOTHING
: . FOR ««• *:
Boys’ and Men’s
Summer Wear
SEN 33 FOR A
g m
POST FREE.
All Parents slnmld try tlie ORIENT
CLOTHING for tlieir Boys’
School and Best
Wear*
GEORGE STREET,
Opposite G.P.O.
SYDNEY.
DAVID JONES & CO.,
ORIENT CLOTHIERS
TATTERSALL’S
-ggsl
#llB9o-IVIONSTER CARRINGTON STAKES-1890|^
SsF
■)•(*
50,000 [- 20 each ■{ 50,000
700 EXTRA 700
0T REGISTER YOUR LETTERS and ADDRESS U TATTERSALL,”
C/o GEORGE ADAMS, “ Tnttersnirt," Sydney, N.S.W.
IF YOU WISH
to be worried into an early grave by the
petty inconveniences of this paradoxical sub-
lunary—if you wish to lose your trams, your
trains, your temper—if you wish to arrive at your
business premises in the morning disposed to
quarrel with everyone you come in contact with,
and to arrive home of an evening in a fit mood to
abuse your wife, baste the baby, kick the cat, or,
indeed, for the matter of that, to “kick the
bucket,” in a sudden fit of splenic apoplexy, why,
buy one of those cheap, trashy, made-up-to-gull
Swiss atrocities in the shape of a so-called watch.
But if you wish a
RELIABLE TIMEKEEPER,
A true and trusty friend and faithful companion
—if you wish a timekeeper which myriads of
grateful purchasers have satisfied themselves is
fully up to the standard of excellence claimed for
it, the testimony in favour of which is so over-
whelming, the reputation of which is unrivalled,
the durability of which is assured, the construc-
tion of which is simple and such that it rarely gets
out of order, and, in event of accident, can be
repaired at a trifling cost —if you wish a low-cost
and reliable TIMEKEEPER, which has proved
itself worthy of the high encomiums passed upon
it in every clime, by pulpit, press and populace,
you will assuredly buy a Waterhury,
All parts of its beautiful mechanism are made
by the most marvellously accurate automatic
machifiery ; and duplicates of those parts are, for
the purpose of economic repairs, kept constantly
in stock at the company’s various repair depots,
established throughout the chief centres of the
colonies. Series E, the old favorite, 13s 6d ;
series J (Gents.’) or L (Ladies’), the new marvels,
stem-setting, short-winding, and enamelled dials,
22s 6d, each. Sold by all storekeepers and dealers.
'V
'll
Vf
f € MS#
, / v u 11 MmJ
VS
/
' YA
r
VM
sy
C^t.f
---
CASHMERE BOUQUET
TOILET SOAP
Is made with the utmost oark from material
selected with the
(,UI.Vrr.ST KKIi.iIII* lOK I*l KI rv.
And for the soothing and beneficial effect which
they impart to the skin and the complexion.
Gold Medal, Paris, 1889
•• Unequalled in Quality and Perfume."
The circulation of Michael Davitt’s weekly
paper, the Labour World, which began with
150,000, has now reached 300,000.
Hopetoun has denounced the Melbourne
smells. The Melbourne smells will have to go.
Melbourne aldermen like a lord even better than
they like the Melbourne smells.
Mrs. Garrett-Anderson says: “Neither
American nor Australian girls walk better than
English girls, though they —and particularly the
Australian girls—dance a great deal better."’
The fiery Jack Hoolan, the elect of Croy-
don (Q.), about whom such a fuss was recently
kicked up in the Queensland Assembly, is in
reality the most good-natured of men, and would
be the last man in the world to literally “drink
anybody’s blood.” But the Queensland Assembly
has judged Jack out of his own mouth, and since
the memorable scene in connection with the
Prisons Bill, carefully ostracises him. Even
Groom, the Ishmaelite, stands quite aloof, and
Jack Annear, the soi-disant wurruldng man, when
he meets him also stands erect and snorts. Not-
withstanding, the sentiment underlying what
Hoolan said is well worth sticking to—especially
in a country where -they deliberately let a white
man, convicted chiefly on the word of a most
uncertain nigger, die in irons in “ Her Majesty’s”
gaol.
Some venomous joker has just seasoned a
Hobart butcher’s sausages with human teeth.
Bohemia, a Melbourne society journal,
reports that “ Among the distinguished visitors
over from Sydney for the Cup Carnival were
Sappho Smith (of The Bulletin), Lord Caring -
ton, Lord Charles Scott, and Mick Dooley.” As
this conjunction of names might create a mistaken
impression, we rise to explain that Sappho did not
associate in any way with either of the three
gentlemen referred to', but held herself strictly
aloof. Consequently the implied compliment paid
to them is entirely unwarranted. We have reason
to believe that the paragraph was inspired at
Government House, Sydney.
SHEPHERD FOR FORTY YEARS.
A MOST REMARKABLE AND INTEREST-
ING HISTORY.
(From the CHELMSFORD NEWS.)
While on the subject we may mention the case
of Mrs. Mary Ann Halls, of Wardley, Upping-
ham, whose husband has been a resident of lint-
land County for over forty years. His calling is
that of a shepherd, and it is safe to say that no
one is better known in all the country about
Wardley than John Halls. In reciting the par-
ticulars of the case we can do no better than use
Mr. Halls’ own statement made to our reporter.
He says : “For over eighteen years my wife was
an intense sufferer from rheumatism. Much of
the time her hands, elbows, knees, and feet were
swollen to two or three times their natural size,
so that she was unable to walk or dress herself.
She was, in fact, absolutely helpless. Her joints
became so stiff at times that she could not move
them. During these periods she suffered the most
intense agony, and in all these years she was
never entirely free from pain, either day or night.
Different remedies were recommended to her, all
of which she used, but got no relief. Our family
doctor said that her case was incurable. W e had
given up all hope. She had suffered so long that
she had become thoroughly disheartened. Just
before last Christmas we read in a newspaper an
article copied from the London Magazine of
Chemistry and Medicine, which gave particulars
of the wonderful cure, by St. Jacobs oil, of
Edward Evans, whose case was similar to my
wife’s. We concluded to try this remedy. The
oil was first applied to her hands, which had for
many years been so fearfully deformed as to be
almost without shape. Before she had used the
contents of one bottle, to our amazement and joy.
the swelling disappeared, and her crippled hands
once more assumed their natural shape. She then
applied the remedy to the joints of her limbs and
feet, and, marvellous as it may seem, the swelling
and pain, which had withstood all treatment,
began to disappear, and before the contents of
this one bottle had been used, the swelling, stiff-
ness, and pain with which she had been afflicted
for nearly twenty years vanished as if by magic.
She recovered the full use of her limbs, hands,
and feet. She can walk as well as ever she could
in her life, attend to her household duties, and
sleeps soundly at night, while for years she had
not known what it was to have a good night’s
rest. She is free from pain and completely cured,
and all this was brought about by a single bottle
of St. Jacobs oil. I tell you frankly that I believe
this remedy has no equal in the world. It has
brought comfort and happiness to my home, and
I I advise everyone suffering from pain to try it.
The 2s Gd I sent for a bottle was the best invest-
ment I ever made in my life. Airs. Halls per-
sonally confirmed everything that her husband
had said, and could scarcely say enough in praise
of this remarkable agency which had rescued her
from her sufferings.'’


Companies. |
The British and New South Wales Investment
and Financial Co., Limited.
Incorporated under the Companies’ Act, 1874.
Capital, £250,000.
Sydney Office: 246 PITT STREET.
OILLS DISCOUNTED and Immediate Advances granted ,
Daily. Country communications promptly attended
to. The following Rates of Interest are allowed for Fixed
Deposits;—
8 Years
12 Months
6 Months
3 Months
10 per cent.
9 per cent.
8 per cent.
7 per cent.
With a Guaranteed Bonus on Renewals of Twelve Months
and over.
By order of the Board.
C. E. GOTTEN, Acting Manager.
THE
Australian Banking Company
Of SYDNEY.
Authorised Capital, £250,000, in 50,000 Shares of £5 each.
Capital Paid-up, £100,300; Capital Subscribed, £150,000.
Head Office i Fill & Market Streets, Sydney,
Board of Directors:
Francis Abigail, Esq., M.P., Chairman; Ann. S. 6. Davison,
J.P.; T. H. Hassell, Esq., M.P. ; William Bull, Esq., J.P. ;
Robt. Cunningham Esq.
GOULBURN BRANCH : AUBURN STREET,
C. H. Atkinson, Manager.
A dividend at the rate of 10 per cent, (the last) declared
on July 29, will be payable on and after the 14th August.
The Bank transacts all usual banking business in every
particular. Board days. Wednesday and Friday. Special
advantages granted to Commercial Clients. Overdrafts
granted against deposit of Deeds without mortgage.
The Highest Rates of Interest given for
Fixed Deposits.
Interest allowed on Current Accounts calculated on the
Minimum Monthly Balances.
By order of the Board of Directors.
RODERICK M'NAMARA, General Manager.
THE WAY TO WEALTH.
The way to wealth is as plain as the way to market.
The majority of the wealthy men of Sydney, Melbourne
and Brisbane made their money by buying land in these
capital cities while it was low in price, and before these
cities were so large and populous as at present.
Western -A. vl s x* a 1 ± a
is the coming colony. Her Capital City will become
a second Melbourne or Sydney.
If you want to make money, buy land
there now. It is a good spec.
GRAND BUILDING SITES AT PERTH,
WESTERN AUSTRALIA,
FROM £lO TO £5O.
TERMS, jrom £1 Deposit. Very easy payments.
NOTE.—The allotments offered arc in picked posi-
tions, they have been inspected by us, and are guaranteed
good.
Write for Marked Plans to
The INTERCOLONIAL (Western Australian)
INVESTMENT COMPANY, Ltd.,
96 BATHURST STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
W. J. DOUGLAS, Manager.
Medical.
DISEASES
nr ti4r
EYE, EAR, NOSE,
THROAT &c.
enuine cukes of
DEAFNESS, BLINDNESS, &C.
READ what the South Australian Religious Press say
concerning Dr. RAYMOND’S Skill and Treatment :
“ During his residence in this colony we have had full
opportunity of making Mr. Raymond’s acquaintance, and
of observing the cures he has performed, and we have no
hesitation in sayimr that in our opinion he is a genuine
man and a skilled physician. We have come personally
into contact with a number of persons that have been
cured by him of eye and ear diseases of a complicated and
difficult character, so that we speak from actual know-
ledge and observation. Professor Raymond is a botanic
physician ; he uses no mineral drugs, and his treatment is
painless and uninjurious.”— The Christian Colonist,
Adelaide, 1889.
The FOLLOWING CURE that has just been EFFECTED
in SYDNEY not only supports what has been done else-
where, but illustrates the superiority of Dr. RAYMOND’S
method of combating difficult and complicated affections
of the Human ear. 1
“To Dr. RAYMOND, Aurist, Oculist, and Botanic
Physician. . _ , .
“ Dear Sir,—ln response to your request, 1 desire to
publiclv testify to the benefit I have received from your
treatment. You have considerably improved ray hearing
and general health, although I had previously been under
the treatment of one doctor in Sydney, and been in con-
sultation with several others. I had also used Nicholson’s
ear drums, lotion and nose powder, and without receiving
the slightest benefit therefrom. You have treated my
case, nose and throat deafness, botanically; and, in my
opinion, your system is the right one—you, at the same
time, attacking the root of the disease with internal treat-
ment. I shall be happy to answer any enquiries as to the
benefit I have received whilst under your treatment.—
Yours, very truly. H. TAYLOR, Palisade Hotel, Millers
Point,November 14th, 1890.”
Xj r . Gr, H RA.YM!O3Xri>,
THE EMINENT SPECIALIST IN
Diseases of the Eye, Bar, Nose Sc Throat,
AND PROFESSOR OF MEDICAL BOTANY,
Author of “A Treatise on the Diseases of the Eye and
Ear ” “ A Practical and Scientific Disertation on the Merits
and’Demerits of Artificial Ear Drums,” “ Giving Sight to
the Blind,” &c,, may now be consulted at
62 WYNYARD-SQUARE, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
FREETRADE or PROTECTION.
Some vote Protection, some Freetrade,
As best for this young country’s weal.
But ask the youth or blushing maid,
And each will answer— Pemell’s Meal !
As best, because it has been tried,
There’s nothing half so good beside.
His Golden Meal is what I mean,
’Tis good and pure and cheap, I wean.
Write for plans £10 Building sites, Perth,
Western Australia. Intercolonial Investment
Company, Limited, 96 Bathurst-street, Sydney.
In the “ behind” part Opera House, Leadville, Colorado,
is posted the following notice : —“ No kicking. There is
only one way to get along pleasantly on the stage—that
is, to be pleasant. When it comes to kicking we will be
right there. No strangers allowed, unless by permission
of the manager. No loud talking, swearing, or noise of
any kind allowed. We will do all we can to please every-
one ; but, of course, some people come here who think
they have played in larger and finer theatres. It is a
great mistake. It is an easy thing for us at a moment’s
notice to move any dressing-room, furnish all with grand
piano, electric light, hot and cold water, easy chairs, etc.
People who were never used to anything in their lives
kick the most. They are what I call common people,—
The Manager ’
;: r t ; &
v:
m-:
, , , •
-y
T 1
■ ■
■
mam
■
3E=E.o3ra.l Hotell T. BKOWS, Proprietor. [Rantiwicls.
Specially adapted for Families. pf" Trams Stop at Door.
Atirozis’ ZHJ3COI3 ange Hotel, Syci:ra.ey
r
SH
UK
«|P»
ssfSteW
■ <fm *;..tfTv )ur
■» -‘l> ■
...-•••■■ ■ ' -••■ -
5S — a jaM
mm? j 1 in
HlUllli ii
:
1' ■■■ 1 ' '•■ ■ • ’
tfctfffi It, j|, 3
'f
■ypnl
" ' ■> til
ll: Sll
■ipr i? i' ‘*l HR HB ~w IP 1 f
■ £4, At,, l; ft
tlfClßia PHOTO-ENC. CQ'._MBIDH£-ST.-, SYJUUV*
»
Adjoining the Sydney Exchange.
(..)-
lining, Financial and General Mercantile Intelligence
Posted several times DAILY in the Building 1 .
TELEGRAPH, POST and MONEY ORDER OFFICES on the PREMISES.
This Hotel has been thoroughly renovated and re-furnished, and is now unrivalled for conifor
uid attention.
Aarons’ Exchange Hotel Co. (Limited), Proprietors.
THE
‘ Plum •
THf
Plum
HIS brand of Razor is something superior to anything that has ever been offered to the public.
p ure hollow ground, beautiful silver steel, and rings like a bell; set ready for use, and we
guarantee each razor for two years. It never requires grinding, and to gentlemen who shave them-
T
selves they cannot possibly do better tqan to try this particular brand
f Single Razor, in strong leather case, 10/6 ; Pair, in beautiful morocco leather case, 21/-
Price |Single Razor, in ivory handle, 15/-; Pair Razors, ivory handles, in beautuul case, 30/-
Begistercd and sent post free to any part of the Australian Colonics,
A ISS? s . CRAIG A AITKEN, 680 George Street, Sydney.
JONES’ SEWING MACHINES,
FOR THE BOOT AND TAILORING TRADES.
THE BEST MANUFACTURING- MACHINES IN EXISTENCE.
Now Perfected, the New No. 3 and No. 4 Machines on an Entirely New System.
STOCK .IUST LANDING.
parleigh, Nettheim, Co.,
TANNERS AND LEATHER MERCHANTS,
16 + YOR IKI - STREET, + SYDITEY.
Sole Agents for the above for New South Wales and Queensland.
(x)
Ar«n of Reuuisites for the ROOT MANUFACTURING TRADE in all Details, including MACHINERY,
IMPORTED LEATHERS. &c.; and of the following SrECiAh Links: rrrrlrss Gloss. Salinl'oli'h, Nubian
marking’ Tanners’ Tools and Materials. tiSf* Indents Executed on l aiouiable leuns
Medical.
or the Liquor Habit (in any form) POSITIVELY
and RAPIDLY CURED by administering
the world-renowned
“ GOLDEN SPECIFIC,”
prepared according to the formula of DR. HAINES.
It can be given in a cup of coffee or tea, or in food, either
WITH OR WITHOUT THE KNOWLEDGE of the patient, if
necessary; it is absolutely harmless, and will effect a permanent
and speedy cure, whether the patient is a moderate drinker or an
alcoholic wreck. IT NEVER FAILS. THOUSANDS PROVE
IT. It operates so quietly and with such certainty that the
patient undergoes no inconvenience, and ere he is aware, his
complete reform is effected. Write for Book, sent with full
particulars and Colonial testimonials free by return.
BEWARE of worthless imitations and piagiari*"!* of
our Advertisements. We have no Agents.
Note our Sole Address :
GOLDEN SPECIFIC CO.
145 & 147 Collins St., MELBOURNE, Vic.
/ / /
ft
&
ROSES
m
&
'mi///
9:
G
oS^
85
T'HIS valuable Lotion is guaranteed to cure SWELLING
JL an< j SANDY BLIGHT, INFLAMED EYES and LIDS,
DIMNESS OF SIGHT, &c. It will be found very bene-
ficial and cooling to those who have weak eyes, or whose
work compels them to strain their eyes. Highly
recommended by the leading Oculists.
Manufactured only by the Proprietor,
Mo -A-. ROSE,
Dispersing and Manufacturing Chemist,
531 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Wholesale by the Proprietor and all Wholesale Houses.
Established ISoS, By Post 3s. Sd.
{-'W" Manufacturer of Dr. SOUTHAN’S GOUT and
RHEUMATIC PILLS.
Macassar
Her been known for 100 years as the best preserver
and beauiifier of the hair: it prevents it falling offer
turning grey, strengthens weak hair, ana eradicates
ncurf and dandruff; it is unsurpassed as a brillianline
for the beard and moustaches, in which it Imparts a
soft and silky appearance : it is also sold irt_a golden
colour fur (air-haired children.'
a soothing and emollient milk for the face, and is most
cooling to the skin in hot climates ; it removes freckles,
ian sunburn, roughness and redness of the skin,
pimples, cutaneous eruptions, &c., and produces soft
fair skin, and n lovely delicate complexion.
ROWLAND’S ESSENCE Of TKRE, a harmless preparation
for dyeing red or grey hair a permanent brown or
black. ■£ Ask chemists and druggists Jor, Rowland a
articles.
The extraordinary reputation of Rowland’s Macassar
Oil. Kalydor and Odonto, induces some shopkeepers to
offer spurious imitations under the lure of being cheap,
the principle on which each is prepared Is confined
solely to the knowledge of A. Howland & Sons, of 20.
Hatton Garden, London, and therefore it >8 highly
necessary to buy no Macassar Oil. Kalydor or Odont
except those made by them, end . which bear then
name in red ink on the wrappers. _____
Business Announcements,
&. H. SMITH & SON,
MANUFACTURERS & IMPORTERS OF
PfIJTS ?I]o
302 George Street, Sydney,
8 Doors South of Hunter Street.
s
v ; :
>
Sole A gouts for—
HENRY HEATH,
Oxford Street, London,
“ON AFRIC’S BURNING SHORE.”
BROTHER MISSIONARY (just landed): “Is that
he? I wouldn’t have recognised him. How
fat he has grown ! ”
CANNIBAL: “ Yes, he grow berry fat an’ dat's
sure. We kill an’ eat him at lub-feast to-
morrow. You’m jus’ in time to took his
place an’ get fat, too!"-Ex.


Consult
/FREE BY \
V LETTER )
GrTT&SLt Medical Reform!
HEEE BASSMUSSEN, the Celebrated Danish Herbalist,
Expert Specialist in all Private Complaints, Barrenness and Nervous Diseases.
w.
DENMARK
m
//MW
'h.
%
\
\
%
\
%
$■
%
%
<%
R
E
S
T
0
R
E
s
I
0
s
T
¥
I
T
A
L
!
?
V
\jlo
0
tfH
# c,a
pj#
#
#
-f
■0
f
f
Restores 1
ITALITY
A Guaranteed Cure
for
Nervous Debility and
Lost Vitality.
225. Cd. per Course.
Smaller Box ss. Od.
OaxlL-y lEHerfeELlisl; in A.u.stra,lia
That has received “Gold Medal "' for Great Cures Performed, and is Honourably Mentioned in the “Centennial History of New South Wales
for Great Herbal Discoveries; and who can prove that he has CURED OVER 20,000 PATIENTS.
Sole Proprietor and Discoverer of the Celebrated
VITALITY PILLS, Registered,
Which have been the means of Curing so many Thousands of Sufferers from Nervous Debility, Lost Vitality, Errors, Weakness, Despondency,
Impure Blood. 225. 6d. per Course ; Smaller Box, ss. Gd
CS-exiuin.e "X n es't;i3!23.c3a3.±® J !Ls.
To HERR RASSMUSSEN,—Dear Sir, —This is to certify that your
remedies cured me of a very serious blood disease, after many doctors
had failed.—JOHN REYNOLDS, Chappel-street, Leichhardt, Sydney
To HERR RASSMUSSEN, the celebrated Danish Herbalist.—Dear
Benefactor, —I have much pleasure to inform the public that your
remedies cured my wife of an internal complaint of a very serious
nature, after all the doctors had given her up.—ARCHIBALD
MACFARLANE, Eden Cottage, Barney-street, Armidale.
To HERR RASSMUSSEN, Specialist in Nervous Diseases. 1) ar
Sir,—l hereby thank you for the great cure your remedies performed
on me for a very complicated nervous affection, and I shall always
recommend you to sufferers from Nervous Debility,—THOS.
MUDIMAN, Merchant Tailor, King Street, Newtown.
To HERR RASSMUSSEN, Danish Herbalist.—Dear Sir and Bene-
factor,—lt gives me great pleasure to testify to your wonderful skill
in the treatment of Disease. Your remedies cured me of a terrible
complaint after the doctors gave me up, and although it is four years
since, lam as well as ever, I shall recommend your remedies to all.—
Yours, gratefully, A. RAMSDEN, Great Western Coffee Palace, Castle,
reagh-street, Sydney.
To HERR RASSMUSSEN, Specialist in Nervous Diseases.—Dear
Sir,—l hereby certify that I have been under your skilful treatm-nt
for a very obstinate case of nervous debility, and that your remedies
cured me, one course of your Vitality Pills being'sufficient, —D.
M‘NEILL, Hornsby Junction, N.S.W,
Ss
<i(
If
Opixxiozis of tlie Press.
It is a well-known fact that HERR RASSMUSSEN, the Celebrated
Danish Herbalist, has performed many great cures during the pas-, tew
years, as his numerous testimonials will prove.—Sydney Bulletin'.
HERR RASSMUSSEN.—We have been shown some excellent Testi-
monials of the great cures performed by Herr Rassmussen, the cele-
brated Danish Herbalist.— Australian Star.
HERR RASSMUSSEN has now been .established in the colonies
for 10 years. —Sunday Times, April 28, 1888.
HERR RASSMUSSEN has become a celebrity in the curing of all
diseases of the nervous system. His name has become a wonder
throughout the Southern Hemisphere. He was-presented with a Gobi
Medal for some of his miraculous cures.— Balmain Leader, May 12,1885.
HERR RASSMUSSEN.—The remarkable cures which he has effected
are pretty generally known. —Balmain Observer, April 28, 1888.
We arc perpetually receiving letters irom HERR RASSMUSSEN S
cured patients requesting us to make known to the public the wonder-
ful medical skill this remarkable man possesses, and he has just been
presented with a Gold Medal from several of his cured patients.
—Sydney Weekly News, May 26, 1887.
HERR RASSMUSSEN, the Danish Herbalist, has shown us some
highly complimentary testimonials, which he has received, certifying
to a number of important cures effected by his remedies. —Sydney
Evening News, March 7,1890,
ECerr Rassmuasen’s DOZer'fcsa.l H.emed,ies. (REGISTERED.)
DENMARK VITALITY PlLLS.—Guaranteed to cure Nervous Debility, Lost Vitality, Errors of Youth and Despondency, Price, 225. 6d. per full course ; small box, ss. 6d.
DENMARK FEMALE RESTORER PlLLS.—Guaranteed to cure all complaints peculiar to Females, Irregularities, and eradicates complaints which cause barrenness.
Price, 225. Cd. per course ; small box, ss. 6d.
LOCK CL RE PlLLS.—Guaranteed to Cure all diseases of the blood, discharges, sores, and strictures. Price, 225. 6d, per course ; small box, ss. 6d.
By Post, Is. extra per course.
CONSULTATION AND ADVICE FREE.
All the above remedies are made of PURE HERBS, and are forwarded unobserved. A valuable treatise on Nervous Debility, Private Complaints, and Barrenness, sent
free, on receipt of 4d stamped addressed envelope. Consultation by post, free. Patients’ blood and urine, when sent by post, are examined with the aid of the Microscope.
Address: - Herr RASSMUSSENTtbe Danish Herbalist,
Box SOS, HEPost; Office, Syd.sa.ey.
N.B.—All correspondence strictly confidential. Register all letters containing money.
All the above Remedies may be obtained personally at the DENMARK AGENCY, 58 (up stairs) Royal Arcade, Pitt Street, Sydney.
KNJAI.v
'/ I\\
$
%
$
%
%
%
&
z>\
A
%
%
%
%
%
R
E
s
!
0
I
S
L
0
s
T
V
i
T
a
L
s
r
V
Ml#
VP
tin-
Pi#
# #
r
§
&
■fo
ƒ
f
Hemes
ITALITY
A Guaranteed Cure
for
Nervous Debility and
Lost Vitality.
225. 6d. per Course.
Smaller Box ss. 6d.
Medical.
SPECIAL
MEDICAL NOTICE.
In all Long-Standing and Chronic Com-
plicated Cases of Diseases
CONSULT
\K¥'TKmELMMN\
Of
173 & 174 WILLIAM STREET,
MELBOURNE.
The Only Naturally Qualified Consulting Herbalist
of the present Century, and
Who Has Cured
More Cases of CHRONIC DISEASE than any
Ten Medical Men in Australia,
|y ALL CONSULTATIONS FREE.
Notice.—lf preferred, a signed agreement given, which
provides that no cost is incurred in the event of a cure
not being effected.
Sufferers can be treated equally well at any distance and
in any part of the world. Write fully a description of case
and symptoms, and mention this paper,
SWOItX CERTIFICATE, — One of Thousands more.
Noble-street, Newton, Geelong,
10th December, ISBB.
To H. F. Kugei.mann, Esq.
Dear Sir, —This is to certify that I, Patrick Keenan, was
taken ill about three years ago with a severe cold, which
turned into Bronchitis and became chronic. / consulted
more than one doctor, and during that time took a great
quantity of medicine without it doing me the slightest
good, but 1 became worse every day, wasting awag until
I became a perfect skeleton. About February last 1 began
to spit up blood, and what with the cough and severe
pains in my left lung, and the quantity of bad matter I
was expectorating every day, I became very much alarmed.
Hearing of your professional skill I consulted you, and
you told me you could cure me for a given sum. 1 agreed
and went under your treatment in March last. At the
end of three months I was taken bad one morning, and
vomited about two pints of blood, matter and stringy
phlegm. From that time I commenced to improve, and
was gaining in weight every day. About a month ago the
blood ceased coming, the cough disappeared, and the
lung healed completely, and thank God and your pro-
fessional skill, I am as well as ever.
P. KEENAN.
Declared and subscribed before me, one of Tier Majesty’s
Justices of the Peace, for the Southern Bailiwick, In the
County of Grant, this 10th day of December, 1888.
Peter Smytiib, J.P.
A POSITIVE CURE.
TVR. BOHANNAN'S Curative Remedies for all Private
Nervous, and Special Complaints. Always reliable.
Descriptive chart sent, sealed, for two stamps. Address
Hotel Metropolo Pharmacy, Phillip-street, Sydney,
A
GOLDEN
SHANTY
PRICE: ONE SHILLING.
BOLLINGER'S CHAMPAGNE.
IDDBIT —EXTEA QUALITY.
SOLE AGENTS for NEW SOUTH WALES-
CHARLES BATH & CO.,
4 Bridge Street, SYDNEY.
First Prize:
MELBOURNE EXHIBITION.
Elwingr’s Indelible
Marking 1 Ink.
Approved and Patronised bv Vice-Royalty and
the Elite of the Australasian Colonies.
Report of the Government Analytical Chemisi , ' l I have examined Ewing’s Indelible Marking Ink,
for marking linen, etc. It is very good, the writing done with it resisting all attempts to wash out.
It may be well recommended. —Signed, Wm. Johnston.”
All Wholesale and Retail Chemists, Stationers, Drapers. In cases, Is. Proprietor, T. A. Ewing 1 ,
Chemist (by appointment) to His Excellency, Brunswick-street, Fitzroy, MELBOURNE.
& CO,,
Engineers, Coppersmiths, Brass and Bell Founders,
Finishers, Plumbers, Ship & General Smiths,
Gasfitters, Art & Mediaeval Meial Worker
ROLLER SKATES (any make) with BRASS or WOODEN WHEELS,
Verity’s Gas Fires, Heaters and Ventilators at greatly Reduced Prices —11,000 Fires already in use
Importers and Manufacturers of Diving Gear, Yacht and Boat Work of every description in
Iron or Brass, Ships’ Single and Double Action Valve Closets, Fire Hydrants, Hose and all appliances
Bon Accord AVorks, 9 Macquarie Place, Sydney,
ƒ
f
f
f
Purchasers should see that the Label on every bottle of (he original
WORCESTERSHIRE SAUCE
bears the Signature, thus :—•
c
Ask for Lfa k rEiftriNS* Sauce, and see Name on Wrapper. Label, Bottle and Stopper.
Wholesale and for Export l»/ the Proprietors, Worcester; Crosse «f Blackwell, London, sc., sc.
and bp Grocers and Oilmen throughout the World.
Medical.
f
A.M., M.D., C.M., P.R.C.S., Ed.; M.R.C.S., Eng.,
157
( ELIZABETH STREET,
> Sydney.
}
157
Dr. PATERSON has been engaged for over
Twenty Years in the study and practice of
QHRONIC, |\| ERVOUS,
AND
Special Diseases
Of Men and' Women in the leading Medical Schools and
Hospitals of Great Britain, Paris, Berlin and Vienna, and
in private practice. Formerly House Surgeon to the
Edinburgh Royal Infirmary, Maternity and Lock Hospitals.
No medical man advertising in these colonies has medical
degrees which can be compared with his. Such eminent
qualifications, together with his recognised straightfor-
ward treatment, has naturally gained for him the reputa-
tion of being the
ONLY LEGALLY QUALIFIED DOCTOR
advertising in these colonies who combines with special
Knowledge Honest Treatment, as may easily be ascer-
tained by applying to any leading paper in the colony.
No diseases cause so much misery and distress as those
included in my speciality.
All Men Young and Old,
Suffering from the results of early follies or ex-
cesses, indigestion, foul mouth, costiveness, palpi-
tation, singing and pains in the ears and head,
specks before the eyes, giddiness, weakened
memory, pains in the back and chest, varicocele,
diseases of the bladder, kidneys, or liver, rheuma-
tism, impure blood, weakening discharges, impaired
vigor, sterility, premature decay, stricture, nervous-
ness, groundless fears, bashfulness, lassitude, and
NERVOUS DEBILITY, should lose no time in
consulting him, since he has, by long experience
and thorough investigation of their nature, dis-
covered the safest treatment for their permanent
cure, Persons residing at a distance may be treated
at their own homes, without any interruption to
their business, by giving a full and clear descrip-
tion of their symptoms, and the necessary medi-
cines will be forwarded to .them. On receipt of
2s. Gd. he will forward his book on the “ Male
Generative Function in Health and Disease,”
or of Is., his book on “ Nervous Debility.”
Dr. Alex. Paterson,
157 Elizabeth St., Hyde Park, Sydney,
itW Consultation Free. TEfc
* c o
'<<s*
from
every flower that
breathes n fragrance
SWEET SCENTS
LOXOTIS OPOPONAX
\ FRANGIPANNI PSIDIUM
May be obtained
Of any Chemist or
Perfumer.
[4>
■ *°nd Stre^
Beware of imitations: The genuine is sigaed
TRADE MARE DgEE
f


WORMS IN CHILDREN
Effectually Cured bv
WATSONS GINGER-
BREAD WORM NETS. a perfectly safe ami certain remedy,
in an agreeable form. Sold by the leading Storekeepers, and
by he Proprietor. Job* W*tsov, Chemist, SSI George Street.
Sydney. In Boies, Is.; by Post, Is. 2d. ......
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
It is a good rule to accept only such medicines
as are known to be worthy of confidence. It has
been the experience of thousands that Ayer’s
Cherry Pectoral is the best medicine ever used
f or throat and lung diseases.
To darken grey hair. —Lockyer’s Sulphur
hair restorer is the quickest, best, safest, and
cheapest. Large Bottles, Is. fid. Everywhere.
The Shannon File and Transfer Cases are
indispensable to the modern business or profes-
sional office. They pay their cost in a week in
time and temper saved. W. M. Maclardy, 319
George-street, Sydney.
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
DRIMKf
> ,1
VdWV
IWVH
nnr.
NVHI
m
1 \
'/W
IJ4,
S =
ill
Sole Agents:
HOWELL & JOSKE,
Wine and Spirit Merchants,
4:t:t Koiirke Street, Salisbury Buildings,
MELBOURNE.
van
“They fit perfectly , and are.
far sv/ erwr to all the other
| Corsets I have tried."
| (Signed) Marie Rose.
THE
&
PATENT
Diagonal Seam Corset
Will not Split in the Seams
nor Tear in the Fabric.
Exquisite Model, Perfect
Comfort, Guaranteed Wear.
Beware of worthless imita-
tions. Every genuine Y& N
_ Corset stamped “Y& N Patent
Diagonal Seam Corset, No. 116,” in oval.
THREE GOLD MEDALS!
%W Sold by all Drapkr« and I,Mines' Oiitfittshs
Government
f
Notices.
Department of Public Works,
Sydney, November 20, 1800.
Tenders for public works and
supplies.
For Conditions, see Government Gazette.
TENDERS for the Works, &c., specified below
will be received at this Department until 11 o clock
a.hi. on the dates mentioned.
WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 3.
ANNUAL CONTRACTS, 1891
(Deposit of i2O required on each of the follow-
ing contracts); —
Ironmongery, Leather Belting, &c.
Brooms, Brushes, &c., Steel
Plate, Bar Iron, &c., Anchors, Chains, &c.
Copper and Lead Pipings, Castings
Engineer’s Stores, No. 1, Rope, &c.
Engineer’s Stores, No. 2, Kauri Pine
Oils, Paints, &c., Cement
Ship Chandlery, Quarry Tools
Awnings, Tents, &c., Draftsmen’s Materials
Indiarubber Goods, &c.
Hardwood, Oregon, &c
Wrought Iron Manufactured in New South Wales
Wrought Scrap Iron Forgings
Wrought Iron Angle Bucket Links
Draftsmen and Surveyoi s’lnstruments
Boats, clinker and carvel built
Drain Pipes, Western District
Drain Pipes, Southern District
Drain Pipes, Northern District
Drain Pipes, Metropolitan and lllawarta Districts
Supply of Coal for Sydney
Ditto ditto at Wollongong
Supply of Coal at Lake Macquarie
Conveyance of Coal
Newcastle to Hastings River
Ditto Bellinger ditto
Ditto Clarence ditto
Ditto Macleay ditto
Ditto Richmond ditto
Ditto Manning ditto
Ditto Camden Haven
Ditto Tweed River
Ditto Nambucca River
Ditto Cape Hawke
Wollongong to Moruya River
Ditto to Shoalhaven, ditto
WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 10.
Supply of Cast-iron Pipes, &c,, Contract No. L
Richmond Water Supply.
Iron Bridge, Alumny Creek, Pound-street, Grafton
—Contract No. 1, Ironwork, &c. Contract
No. 2, Erection. (Alternative tenders will be
received for Ironwork and Erection Complete
in one Contract.
Repairs, &c., Wharf at North Forster, Wallamba
River
Construction of Landing Stage, Taylor’s Ann,
Nambuccra River
Erection of Stamp Office, Phillip Street
Bridge, Narara Creek, road Gosford to Popran
Wharf, Eatonville, Clarence River
Wharf, Gladstone, Macleay River
Additions Courthouse, Broken Hill (fresh tenders)
Erection of Post and Telegraph Office, Silverton
Erection of Courthouse, Ulmarra
Erection of Bridge, Bebarengar Creek, road
Warren to Nevertire
Bridge, Murwillumbah Creek, at Murwillumbah
Bridge, Shingle Hut Creek, road Armidale to
Castle Doyle
Bridge, Duval Creek, road Armidale to Maryland
Erection of Quarters, Benevolent Asylum, Mac-
quarie-street, Parramatta
Bridge, Shea’s Creek, at Ricketty-street, Botany
Building for Engineering Department, University
of Sydnev (fresh tenders)
Construction of Wharf, Sans Souci, (fresh
tenders)
WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 7.
Bridge in Approach, Laybury Creek Bridge
Bridge over Termed Creek, Road Burril to Ulla-
dulla
WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 21.
Construction, &c., of Railway Bridges, Leicester
and Wilson Creeks, Lismore-Tweed Railway
Construction of Ist Section Lismore-Tweed Rail-
way. (Plans, &c., to be seen after Ist Dec.)
BRUCE SMITH.
Miscellaneous.
Facial Blemishes.—
Pimples, Bleakheads, Red Nose, Oily Skin, Red Skin and all
Cutaneous Eruptions, etc. Here H. Salomon, expert
specialist, treats with great skill all Cutaneous Diseases
and guarantees a cpiick and permanent cure. Persons
desiring treatment can, by forwarding a full description
of their case and £2, receive hy return of post the
medicines required. NERVOUS DEBILITY successfully
treated. Price, £1 per course, medicines sent unobserved
Address :—H ERR H. SALOMON, Post Office, Auckland
New Zealand.
johw buck
449 ELIZABETH STREET, MELBOURNE.
I 1 ENT, Tarpaulin, and Waterproof Cover
Manufacturer. Horse Rugs, Loin Govt rs
Oilskin Coa f «, Cab Atr-n-, Marquees (with or
without floor ng and flags) for sa’e or hire.
JOHN BUCK HAM MELHOUHNE.
Oldest established house in the trade.
When ordering please mention this paper.]
Free Prescriptions
Are to be found in the “ Light and Life,’
for the Speedy Cure of Nervocs Debility and
Kindred Diseases, &e. A copy of this book will
be sent Eree, sealed, for Six Penny St_amps.
Address —
S. WARD & CO., SYDNEY PHARMACY,
7G HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
m
m
*a'
m
-.’ft'.
s«
-rr; s
f
IMPORTERS OF
C£as €%mi.TcliEirs fittings,
LUMBERS & GAS FITTERS’ MATERIALS,
STR
FLETCHEH'3 GAS GOOSING STOVES
Of Various Patterns.
119 Bathurst St., Sydney.
■'VT'OTlCE.—Advertisements for Current Week
cannot be received LATER than 1 p.m. on
j TUESDAY.
SORIN’S BRANDY,
In Bulk or Case, Guaranteed the pure product of the Cognac Grape,
IS THE BEST.
Otto Sander & Go., 336 ICent-at., Sydney,
Sole Wholesale Agents.
/
/ HIGHLY IMUT RITIVL
MAY BE OBTAINED INJCABEIIEU.TINK UB PACKETSITHROUtiHOU f 1 HE LULONY,
Keferee.
The bowler of the coining century appears to be
young Forde, of All Saints’ College, Bathurst.
» * *
A Sydney undertaker, who keeps a string of
racehorses, has discovered that he can make more money
under the turf than on it.
# * #
A Bathurst mother recently told her five-year-
old daughter the venerable fairy-tale about men and
women being filled with sawdust, the same as the little
one’s cheap doll. The youngster studied the subject in
silence (or a time, and then gravely asked : “ Ma, how is
it that Mr. Dan Mayne has all his sawdust in one place?”
Ma gave it up, and Dan has taken to stays in a wild
endeavour to reduce his “corporation.”
* * *
There is no better known man to the Sydney
world of sport than Mr. “Dari” M’Cauley, and there is
no man in Sydney better worth letting alone when it
comes to poking a bit of “ borak.” Dan is the possessor
of a pig-farm, and upon someone who wants the whole
world to himself making complaint about the establish-
ment, the local Council called a meeting to enquire into
the matter, and Mr. M’Cauley was called in as a witness.
“ Well,” said Dan, addressing the municipal magnates,
“ it seems strange to me to ask a man about his own pre-
mises, more especially as I see so many old friends of my
boyhood’s days before me. There’s Mr. So-and-So, whose
grandfather I knew so well ” (and then followed a few
pleasing anecdotes of grandpa), “ and there’s Mr. What s-
iiis-Name, who, in his young days, went by the name of
1 Dirty-Nosed What’s-his-Narae,’ and next comes my
friend, noted for his well-shaped foot—well-shaped,
gentlemen, as a foot should be that was untrammelled
with leather until its twenty-fourth year.” And then the
meeting was hastily adjourned at the suggestion of the
gentlemen who had not been touched upon by Mr.
M ‘Cauley, and whose turn was yet to come.
* * #
The principal event of the West Australian
Turf Club—the Perth Cup—is a two-mile race, for which
12 entries have been received. Last year’s winner,
Wandering Willie, a sort of local Carbine, carries top
weight, lOst. 31bs. The event will be run on January 1.
« # »
If Rev. Cullen, M.P., and Co. really want a
■case of brutality to take up, why do they not tackle the
Sydney fasting man ? A boxer knocks off his task
winded, with perhaps a black eye or a sore jaw, and half-
an-hour aftenvards is pretty well as good a man as when
lie started, but the fasting man is undergoing a course of
“low torture, and is permanently 'injuring himself. The
morbid crowd who are parting their modest shilling to
see the poor wretch would part two to see an execution or
an old-time Bathurst flogging day.
* * *
We read that “Nosey Bob,” the Sydney hang-
iman, drew Melos in the big sweep.
# # #
The rhenmatieal Singapore has been turned out
into the paddock for a spell. India would be the place
,for Mr. Matt. O’Shannassy’s splendid failure.
# * #
There were sixteen would-be starters for a pony-
ira.ee at Elsternwick Park (Melb.) meeting the other day.
•Harrie Smith, inspector of stiff-’uns, made them all stand
iip straight tinder the measuring apparatus, instead of
stretched out as hitherto. .Result; One “pony” was
passed as all right, and the race was a “walk-over.”
Barrie will reform pony-racing off the turf at this rate.
#* * .
The Carlton (Sydney) Cricket Club is trying
hard to secure Jack Lyons, of Adelaide, to make their
already strong team much stronger. Apropos, ought not
this sort of thing be discouraged ? The big teams are too
big. Lyons’ team, the Norwoods, have reduced cricket in
Adelaide to a farce. Included in the Norwoods are G.
and W. Giffen, M’Kenzie, Blinman, Gooden and Lyons!
Why do not the cricketing associations divide their teams
into districts, as under the county cricket system in
England?
# * *
A bookmaker who arrived in Adelaide, from
Melbourne, with an excellent name and a most impressive
get-up, obliged the local backers with better odds aoout
Carbine than any other bookie. He has now vanished,
and so has the money of the Adelaide saints.
* * *
X godless syndicate of 20 Japanese idolaters is
reported to have scooped the biggest prize in the biggest
Cup consultation in Australia, and as usual the Christian
with the bruised and contrite heart didn’t draw even a
lame roarer that was entered, but was too much diseased
to start. Consequently the heathen continue to rage as
before, and the backer imagines a vain thing. Christianity,
regarded as a means of getting Providence to put the
Christian on to a winner, is a failure, and as that is the
only use most people have for their Christianity, the
result is disheartening. The Christian has simply got to
hustle in earthly matters and take his chance. Once up !
in Queensland, many years ago, we played shilling-nap
with a party of three, one being a sincere Shaker,
while the others ranged from a publican down to an
habitual swearer and a person who had bolted with
another man’s wife; and yet when the Shaker
went four on ace, king, queen, and nine, he was
wiped out and had to pay, because the publican
had.the jack and three other trumps. Next minute the
profane man of the company went nap with nothing
higher than a queen, and won the lot. Also we have fre-
quently seen a pious Hardshell with two bowers in his
hand get hoplessly extinguished by a blasphemous atheist
who had nothing but an ace, and so far as the cash
prospects are concerned we would rather have a .£lO bet
on an outsider with the glanders than be a bishop who
had drawn the favourite in a £20,000 sweep. The Church
can raise money on a land speculation in a way that fills a
Sinful world with envy, and it has a genius for cleaning
out a bank or a finance company, and if it is dropped
down on a lonely island with only one inhabitant it will
grab his last cocoa-nut inside two days, but at open
gambling it is a failure. If it holds three aces, and has
staked its last copper on them, something is sure to go
wrong at the last moment, and a degraded character with
two sevens takes the pool. Amen.
# # »
TheFogavty-Choynskifight at Sydney Australian
Club on Monday night showed nothing if not that the
“ loser’s end ” of the purse must be materially reduced if
patrons of the ring are to witness stubbornly-contested
matches. Fogarty stood off the lengthy American and
played at longshots, and, as he might have expected, the
/puck left of the Melican, man frequently found a resting-
place on James’ anything but classic frontispiece, until
the tenth round, when, amidst a howl of disgust from the
crowd, the sponge shot up from the corner of the Fogarty,
who explained that it was no use his standing to be
knocked about by a man whom he could not reach. And
notwithstanding'the fact that Fogarty gave up on receipt
of punishment which would only have whetted the
appetites of lightweights such as Burge or young Sandy
Boss, the fat. "loser’s end” duly finds its way into his
pouch. Choynski, for all Fogarty knew to the contrary,
might have been all abroad when tackled at close quarters,
and it seems an extraordinary thing that his seconds did
not tell him to go in and risk roughing it for a
round, when he might have got a chance one in with his
auctioneer. The rival clubs should metaphorically fall
over each other in their haste to be first in the field with
a purse for Choynski and Dooley, as a meeting between
two such scientific and popular boxers (not mere sloggers)
would take the public by storm. By the way, the evening
papers are much obliged to the dailies for their failure to
report the fight, and trust that they will do it some more.
# # #
Murphy and Griffo may meet again at tile
same place in Sydney should the former consent to apolo-
gise for the statements he is charged \\ itli having dissemin
ated through America concerning his former defeat.
# # #
The winner of the Bnrge-Dawspp match will be
matched against Dummy Mace,
* # *
Sporting writers think that police interference
with semi public glove fighting will cause a reversion to
private turf-fighting for stakes and the foul play that
usually accompanied these open-air combats.
* # #
Joe Goddard easily beat (in the second round)
Curran, of Melbourne, son of the old-time champion.
* * *
The Maoriland champion heavy weight, Harry
Laing, a determined-looking block of a fellow who showed
at the Sydney Gaiety Relief Fund benefit the other night,
has been matched to meet Ned Ryan on New Year’s Eve
at the Australian Athletic Club for a £350 purse. Owen
Sullivan and Jack Perry, the jumper, may meet at the
same place in four weeks for a purse of similar value.
* * #
The two athletic displays given at Sydney
Gaiety (generously lent by Larry Foley) for the benefit of
the Sunday Times Relief Fund, and managed and worked
up by representatives of the paper, have resulted in large
returns to the fund. On the first occasion hundreds were
turned away, and over £llO were taken. On that occa-
sion the displays of scientific boxing between Jackson and
Dooley, Gritfo and J. Ryan were alone worth twice the price
of admission. But the novelty of the show was the high-
jumping of Jack Perry, who cleared the bar at 6ft., and
then jumped over two six-foot men —who stood side by
side. Perry, who is the most extraordinary leaper we’ve
ever seen, literally dives over his jumps head-first, heels
high in air, and, landing on the back of ins neck, flattens
out with his head towards the obstacle. Sandy Ross beat
Donaldson for a Reeeiieb watch. Professors Oansdell,
Donovan, Seguy ana Parker, Jack Fuller, J. Molioy,
Maher, Owen Sullivan, Ives, Starlight, various Ryans,
and the N.V. Brigade, like the others, voluntarily gave
their services.
# * #
John Steele and George Nelson, of Walcha,
inform us that they are ready to row any two men on the
Parramatta River or the Thames in wager-boats over as
four-mile course for a stake of from £lOO to £5OO. This
is probably a bOax.
* * , *
The improvement in M’Lean’s rowing is said to
be due to the discrimination of his backers, who, seeing
that he was slow in recovery, so inclined his slide that
when his stroke is finished the slope of the seat sends him
quickly back. His riggers are now placed Sin. further
forward than usual, to accommodate his length of arm,
and his sculls are carefully weighted.
* * #
The Austral Wheel Race of 200 sovs., at Mel-
bourne Bicycle Club meeting last Saturday, was won off
scratch by Thomas Busst, from 36 starters. It was touch-
and-go with Busst, who finished only six inches ahead of
Claude Hall.
# * #
Peter Jackson left for America per Mariposa.
Goddard, it is said, acknowledges that Peter is too many
for him, and that he was paid £3oo—a sum equal to the
lose.r!s,end,of the purse in the proposed Sydney fight, by
a Metbaiinpe(institution not to face Jackson in Sydney.


fl
V -
pv :
v
w«PNBi
I'LSFSiI
3c. ■
i -
i
«dK- r ..^
nair*
r ‘ f
-
ii;s
ss«
f H
WT
COCOA
THE BEST
BEVERAGE
FOR
CHILDREN
pure.
CADBURY’S COCOA is closely allied to
milk in the large proportion of flesh-forming and
strength-sustaining elements that it contains. It is pre-
pared on the principle of excluding the superabundance
of fatty indigestible matter with which Cocoa abounds
—supplying a refined thin infusion of absolutely pure
Cocoa, exhilarating and refreshing, for Breakfast, Lun-
cheon, Tea or Supper, giving staying power and im-
parting new life and vigour to growing children, and
those of delicate constitutions.
John Boyle O’Reilly.
The following perfervid bub interesting
sketch of the lately-deceased John Boyle
O’Reilly, poet and journalist, who years ago
was sent to West Australia by the British
Government as a political convict, is con-
densed from a Maoriland contemporary :
There is never a word written by John Boyle
O’Reilly that does not burn with the spring-time
joy of life —purity, freshness, joy in nature.
Reverence for man’s greatest attribute, his
spiritual essence, shines on every page of verse or
prose, and no prurient thought, no coarse or sel-
fish strain, disfigures his work. If it is difficult
for his contemporaries to form a just estimate of
such a man, what must we say for the accuracy of
sketches of character of men long since departed ?
It was well said by an old humorist: “I find all
the modern gods of modern days human when I
come to know them personally ” —Boyle O’Reilly
was the exception. I knew him well, the charm
of his society grew on me every hour. I never
met a man in America who knew him personally
without loving him. He was of the race of Irish-
men now departed. What has become of them ?
* * *
Genial, scholarly, easy-tempered ; nothing put
him out —I tried it once. I asked him to meet
two friends at dinner, estimable men both, stiff,
proper unto death, unsympathetic, rigid, self-
conscious, and self-satisfied. They paid America
a patronising visit, knew everything before they
arrived, were personally acquainted with all the
excellencies of life, and aware that those were all
English. A rebel they despised ; Irishmen they
had heard were amusing, but knew were unreliable.
They were of that class that makes England
hated all over the world. Boyle O’Reilly, quite
unprepared, arrived dapper, fresh as a daisy,
courteous, genial, witty. The guests were intro-
duced. Four in all, we sat down to dinner. I
drew O’Reilly out and he unbosomed himself.
The two Englishmen stared and froze, edged off
from the table and took their wine in silence.
* * #
O’Reilly, innocently, but with sympathetic
wonder at my guests, sketched his political history,
developed his sentiments, and was radiant.
Presently one of the Englishmen lost all control,
and standing up said : “D n it, sir, you are a
rebel. You are no company for gentlemen. I
protest that this is the greatest insult,” etc.
Boyle dropped his chin a bit, looked askance at
me, as I sat gravely by, with a look of condemna-
tion of his sentiments on my face. The English-
man proceeded with his invective. Boyle never
turned a hair. When my friend was done Boyle
said: “Yes, sir, I am a rebel, and, thank God,
the loyalest man under the sun.” He set to work
quietly, and talked the pair over in fifteen
minutes, convinced them of the justness of every
proposition he laid down. They shook hands
with him on leaving, declared he was the most
charming man they ever met, and believed in their
souls England’s conduct in Ireland had been
villainous from the beginning.
« # #
Boyle O’Reilly was about sft. Tin. He had an
independent, swinging walk. He covered a good
deal of the pathway in the crowded city, and yet
never got in anyone’s way. He had a courteous
smile for all the world. There was a genial
warmth in the man that welled up from within his
cultured soul, which captivated all things. The
weary waiters in the hotel redoubled their zeal for
him. The young lady in the office of the luncheon-
rooms seemed rejoiced when on putting his hand
in his pocket he found he had no money. Such a
man does not appear to want money, nor fo:d
either, nor drink. He was so busy on this first
occasion doing the honors of Boston that he neither
ate nor drank, though he had ordered an elaborate
lunch. In his absent-minded eloquence, when the
lunch was over, he handed the waiter all the silver
he had in his pocket, as though he would say,
“Yes, James; thank you, James,” but he never
looked at the man, and had not the faintest idea
what he was giving him.
# # #
His head of the Milesian type, neatly put on his
shoulders, compactly made, seemed to play witli
his thoughts. His brow was [sloping rather than
deep, his nose mobile yet almost straight, his eyes
grey blue, steady, intellectual and at times dreamy,
his lower jaw. firm, gave a set purpose to the
whole face, his chest was round as a barrel, his
arms long and lean, his hands neat and small, his
legs long in the thigh, short from the knee down,
his feet compact and arched. He was a perfect
type of a Grecian athlete, brow, eye, jaw, neck,
shoulders, chest, arms, limbs, and all, and yet he
was an Irishman. None other could walk as he
did, without swaggering. None other smile and
beam around without being subservient. None
other gaze in a worshipful manner at a woman
without being disrespectful.
- * *
O’Reilly's narrative of his own life differs
materially as told to me from the account given of
him by Devoy. Here it is: “ During the Fenian
movement a young man was selected by the
organisation to enter each regiment in H.M.
army and educate the soldiers as to the real duty
to the State and to each other. I never spoke a
word of sedition : I never undermined discipline;
I never advocated disloyalty to the Crown. I was
never instructed to do any of these things. I did
my duty to the satisfaction of everyone. I instilled
into the men’s minds lofty ideas of duty ; I taught
them the importance of self-respect; I inspired
them with confidence in the destiny of man, and
instructed them as to a just estimate of the value
of their claims as citizens. I never taught any-
thing: secretly ; my conversations were matters of
notoriety in the Regiment, known equally to
officers and men. I never committed a single act
of rebellion.
* * *
One day I was arrested and tried for high
treason. I listened patiently to the evidence that
was brought against me, and although the evidence
was all suborned, and the witnesses in every case
perjured themselves, I admitted to myself that as
far as either judge or jury could know, the trial
was a perfectly fair one. I left the Court without
a particle of rancour in my heart against anyone,
and with a sense of high admiration for a system
that involved such trouble and expense for the
conviction of a common soldier of crimes which he
had never committed, although his simple confes-
sion that he was a Fenian was sufficient for all
State purposes. My sentence was commuted, and
I was sent to Spike Island. There I learned to be
an accomplished shoemaker. It is a most interest-
ing business. To finish a boot properly, make it
watertight and comfortable to the foot is a work
of art. I spent 18 months at this work, whistled
away under my breath, and was as blithe as a
lark. The only thing I suffered from was hunger.
I was only a growing boy, and I never had half
enough to fill my stomach. What feasts I had at
night though when I was asleep !
# # *
From Spike I was transferred to West Aus-
tralia. You have no conception what a beautiful
country it is. The air how balmy, the forest how
magnificent, the plain so imposing. In West
Australia I was treated with distinction. I was
never expected to work. The other prisoners
took off their caps to me whenever we
met. I was a political prisoner. As they
pursued their convict-labour I walked about
and explored the country. So long as I came
in to the time fixed, and kept regular hours, no
questions were asked. Here I had an experience
aided by a combination of circumstances of an
unusual kind. lam a printer, a pressman, and a
noted diver and swimmer. Ido not know that I
ever met my superior as a diver and swimmer. I
had the whole day to myself. For months our
gang worked near a chain of swamps. I explored
the country each day, and every day my wonder
at its beauty and fertility grew. I came to one
swamp with its waters almost dun, chocolate, or
untanned-leather colour. I puzzled my brain
over this feature, and at length determined to
strip and search the bottom for an explanation.
There was something so buoyant in the water I
could not get down. I tried and tried day after
day. At length I determined to fix weights on
my arms and touch the bottom.
* * *
I got down to the bottom, filled my hands with
some slimy stuff, _ cast off the weights, swam
ashore with my prize and examined it carefully.
Lo ! and behold it was a fibre. For perhaps
thousands of years the trees had shed their leaves,
some mineral in the water had refined them.
Here was the most perfect fibre in the world,
limitless millions of tons of it. The world was at
its wits end for paper, and I had found the neces-
sary staple. No printer could stand it. My soul
burned within me. I wrote to the Governor of the
colony informing him that if he would set me
free I would discover to him a source of boundless
wealth for the country. I believe he thought I
was mad. I received an official letter asking me to
disclose my secret. I wrote promising to return
manacled if I did not at once prove to any compe-
tent commissioner the truth of my statement. I
received no reply. From that moment I made up
my mind to escape. Since my arrival in the States
I have written to the Colonial Office offering to
return to West Australia and complete my
sentence if the British Government would after-
wards make me free of the colony. I have
received no answer.-— C. Times (Wellington, N.Z.)
Oolemane and Sons sugar-coated Eucalypte
Pills. Also, Eucalypte Lozenges. Try them.
We notice with pleasure that the Equitable
Mortgage, Discount, and Deposit Bank, of 4
Moore-street, Sydney, has recently been incor-
porated, and is now opened for business. This
bank has been formed for the purpose of assisting
those who may at any time be in pecuniary diffi-
culties and wish to avoid paying the excessive in-
terest which is too often charged. The bank has
secured the able services of Mr. Henry A. Birk-
myre, which should be a guarantee that clients will
be fairly dealt with. In these days of extortion, the
above institution should about fill a long-felt
want.*
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
The Choicest Jewellery. Daiims & Co., King-st. Arcade
“Drink, pretty creature, drink.” What? The
London & Sydney Tea Co.’s pure teas.
Land at Perth, W.A., the best Investment
Plans from Intercolonial Investment Co., Ltd.
96 Bathurst-street, Sydney.
The United States is a nation of traders. Two-
thirds of the business men of the Republic use
Esterbrook’s “Falcon” Pen. Samples free at
all Stationers.
Liver complaints.—Dr. King’s Dandelion
and Quinine Liver Pills, without mercury, are a
potent—English remedy; remove all liver and
stomach complaints, biliousness, headache, sick-
ness, shoulder pains, heartburn, indigestion, con-
stipation.
Ladies’ Silver Watches, 85s. Dahms & Co., King-street
Arcade.
Tea in 201 b. and 401 b. packages at 1/6, 1/9 and
2/- per lb., delivered free by the L. & S. Tea Co.
Perfection with Simplicity distinguishes the
Shannon Letter and Bill “File. No folding;
all papers open flat. No endorsing; always in
order of date and alphabet. No indexing ; papers
self-indexed. Disarrangement or loss impossible.
W. M. Maclardy, 319 George-street Sydney.
Eleven of the best of the Queensland
mines floated on the London market cost the British
shareholders £2,355,000. Their total market-value
when the mail left was £630,000.
More than ever does the conviction of
secretary Mirams in Melbourne point the moral of
jury sentences, for in what an invidious position
it places Chief Justice Higinbotham, inasmuch
as he might have given any sentence, from three
months up to three years or more ! Would not any
man desire to be relieved from this ? and what
more appropriate than that the 12 men who
ruefully decided on Mirams’ guilt should apportion
the punishment ? Twelve heads are better than
any one in such case, and perhaps more especially
when such a morbidly conscientious man as Mr.
Higinbotham comes into the question. Imagine
yourself a Mirams, awaiting a knowledge of your
time of seclusion. Why, in this case the sentence
is almost more important than the verdict.
“ Will the Prince of Wales ever come to
the throne ?” enquires Melbourne Age. Of course
he will come to the throne if he lives long enough,
and when the joyous event occurs, the Age will
burst out with a “loyal” leader, inspired by
cablegram from its own correspondent to the effect
that all England is yelling the National Anthem,
and the utmost enthusiasm prevails. In what
manner Tummy will get off the throne is quite
another question. Probably he will dissolve him-
self by the exercise of his own royal prerogative in
reply to a deputation of 10 millions or so of his
able-bodied subjects, who will then raffle the
Crown at a shilling a member and hand over
the proceeds to His ex-Majesty, less 10 per cent.
The Government may be expected to give him a
grand farewell dinner, whereat several dukes and
things will express regret that the King business
has been wound up, and the House of Lords is
about to be turned into a coffee-palace. The end
of Tummy, in a monarchical sense, is to
arrive in a peaceful manner, with a grand fire-
works display to follow. But to suggest that he
may not come to the Throne at all is absurd.
How else could the bald-headed gentleman pay
his debts?


■mwi
TMMaJM
soap
PEARS
INDISPUTABLE EVIDENCE
OF SUPERIORITY.
DR. REDWOOD, Ph.D., F.C.S., F.1.C.,
Professor of Chemistry and Pharmacy to the Pharmaceutical Society of Great Britain .
" “My analytical and practical experience of Pears’
“Soap now extends over a very lengthened period—nearly fifty years—
“during which time
“I have never come across another Toilet
Soap which so closely realises my ideal
of perfection;
“its purity is such that it may he used with perfect confidence upon the
“tenderest and most sensitive skin—even that of a new horn hahe.”
(6
ft
'•O'V''
Tales of “The System.”
No. XX.—Lieutenant Darrell’s Predicament.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Lieutenant Darrell, of the —rd Regiment,
second officer of the detachment stationed at the
Hell’s Gates of Macquarie Harbour, V.D.L., was
in a predicament, in which the element of strange-
ness while considerable, was much less than that
of mortal danger.
Lieutenant Darrell was the victim of reversed
conditions. In place of commanding a prisoners’
guard, he and his guard were in charge of a score
of prisoners. That was the singular thing in this
situation.
And the prisoners who had so defied the King’s
Majesty and all the proprieties as to suppress the
liberties of Lieutenant Darrell, instead of order-
ing themselves humbly towards the officer (as the
‘Catechism urged them), and obeying him with
abject slavishness (as the Regulations commanded
them) had just placed him in such a position that
his life was literally depending upon his own toss-
up of a coin. That was the dangerous element in
the case.
■ He stands now in the centre of the rough, large
dormitory, with forty fierce, unpitying eyes fixed
upon him. He is stripped to the waist—a good
specimen of the well-fed English middle-class
boy of 19 or 20 ; and he evidently has the
courage of his years and race. He balances a
guinea on his thumb-nail preparatory to flipping
it into the air with all its heavy burden of destiny
on its glittering surface, and, save thai his face is
a trifle paler than usual, not a symptom of fear is
discernible about him. He would rather that the
.wretches who are environing him with their
bodily loathsomeness and the putrescence
of their tainted spirits, should definitely fix
his doom themselves. He had said as much
to them, and that was his solitary attempt
at influencing them as they played their
murderous game. They had rejected surges.
tion. They wished, by a refinement of e.uelty,
to constitute tlie young officer the arbiter of his
own fate, and their leader had told him so. And
(he blanching of his cheek had followed upon the
convict’s retort. A natural and not unmanly
question, surely, for what man is there who
would not sooner receive his doom from the
hands of another, than choose it himself after ten
minutes of the dreadful suspense that “fluctuates
’twixt blind hope and blind despair ?”
A circle of steel points—bayonet-tips ! is
pressing upon Darrell as he stands there. The
stocks of the muskets are held by convicts’
hands, and so close are the weapons held to his
naked body,*that the action of his arm in tossing
the coin, causing as it does a momentary protru-
sion of his back, drives his flesh on one of the
{joints.
The coin ascends —shimmers a golden ring for
a moment on the sight—and falls duly to the
earthen floor.
The parti-coloured figures—some grey, some
brown, some yellow and black—stoop over it, and
there is a cry of “Heads! He goes by the left
door!”
The encircling bayonets are withdrawn a few
inches to let the officer face to the left. The chief
of the felon-gang picks up the guinea, and tenders
it to the Lieutenant. The plucky boy takes it,
and flings it into the other’s face with a taunt.
“Here, keep it,” he sneered, “You’ll be the
sooner dead because of it. It s an even chance
that any one of you would murder another for a
sin £ le shilling. It’s therefore twenty-one chances
to one that you’ll be killed now you’ve got a
Then he strode down to the door behind which
his fate was lurking for him. At the sixth or
seventh step he paused, and wincing as his sudden
stoppage brought him on to the bayonet again,
cast another gibe at the convict: “ That’s the first
guinea, I’ll swear, you ever had in your possession
that you didn’t steal!”
Laughing, he resumed his walk. At the door
] ie found—but. perhaps, we ought to have begun
a t the beginning.
#" # *
. • , , , , , r ~ ~,
A convict who had escaped from the settlement
at , Sarab I ® land “ company with seven others,
retll ™ ed f o ™’. five weeks la * er - , He had ’ be
re Ported, lost his companions ten days after the
es 'fP e ’ and bad life in the interval on
wdd b 7\\ es ’ fish °f uglt ll ?r- * , streams ’ and the
P ,th of the grass-tree. His plump appearance
f ave th ®, h ? £ blB stor /’ aad a cer am slavering of
mouth left those familiar with the annals of
idell % Gat .f \ OUgh f f v > '\ eTe full
or indescribable ghastlinesses) no doubt -whatever
as to f the . meaas by wldch he had succeeded in
P a intainmg his physical vigor. He was accord-
! n S ly §V, en lns ° h ° ,oe as to whether he would be
i iange *? and there as an absconder, or be firs
do^ed for ! absenting himself from work ’’ and
hen b ? f sent *° Hobarfc d to t be tried ( and
bai^ ed ) for the murder of his fel ow-escapees.
Naturally, the wretch preferred the latter course,
be f h f “ e 9« all y « erta, “ m elther case, but the
Hobart Town f tn P offer « d th « supreme enjoyment
of a of scea ? and a S lass of hofc s P ir ’ t * be
njght before execution. Grog was scarce at the
Harbour, and the luxuries permissible to the
Condemned on the night previous to, and the
monlln - o{ * their 'vcrkmg-off were neither so
nc £ 80 ®: x « e][lent f 111 <W allt y a « ln the
Ca P ltaL ] '° t r whl , cb most C ? gent of . reason ? the
ex-escapee chose the present scourging and the
hanging instead of an immediate execution,
!j lle there , was llfe fchere was alwa y» the chance
baccy aiir grog.
~ N ° w ’ whd f, le „ w “ wait,l f for tbe departure of
the Cyprus, the Government vessel which was to
ake hun and some six or other candidates
f °r Brother Dougherty s (the Hobart Town hang-
laan) tender ministrations, from the Settlement,
, hls man } n the f. eni . al S OSSI P of tbe con-
demned cell, that a particular species of pine-
timber was in request from the Capital, and that
the Commandant was at a loss to obtain a suffi-
cieat su pP ly ' . Xt purred to his lively intellect to
mak ® a bar^am w ‘ th that august potentate,
~ Glve me, yer honour, a gill o rum an a fig o’
baccy e\ ry day till I m scragged, an 111 put yer
°, n , to a , s . fin f e 11 a bk,ck ° £“® as . yer ever seed!”
And as the fellow described the locality with an
exact circumstantiality, the Commandant, Capt.
®. ankes ’ conditionally assented to the proposal,
The departure of the Cyprus was delayed for a
fortnight pending the despatch and return, of
coar f unde . r \ uard > °. f the bnder of the « e T P 1 ™'
S' 5
llis life lie revellcd m and “ the weed -”
* * *
It was the Commandant’s resolve to utilise
the undoubtedly-important discovery that had led
to Lieutenant Darrell’s predicament.
The pine forest was situated in the delta formed
by the junction of the Franklin and the Gordon,
some twenty-five miles distant from the debouch,
ment of the latter splendid river into Macquarie
Harbour. Of an area and a density sufficient to
occupy at least twenty convicts for a twelve-
month, the timber was too far away from the
main settlement for the workers and their guards
to traverse the distance daily, and hence it became
necessary to erect barracks on the spot. This had
been done, and the rude structures—a prisoners’
dormitory and meal-room, 40ft. by 20ft., a guard-
room of half the dimensions for the soldiers, and
two small rooms for the officer in charge—had
been tenanted by Lieutenant Darrell and his
entourage some weeks before the day of the revolt.
* * #
Darrell was of metal from which the die
of nobler circumstances would have struck out a
good man and a chivalrous officer. The System,
however, put him into its dehumanising press the
System at this time was more military than civil
■ —and moulded the golden ore of his youth into a
shape that retained only one feature worthy of
admiration—an absolute fearlessness. Demons,
if we may believe the legends, share that quality
with men, and Darrell, who had the stuff of a
hero in him, simply became a devil.
He could not understand what fear meant.
Neither could he understand what significance
there was in the word humanity. All qualities
included in the latter term, justice, generosity,
pity, were to this lad meaningless abstractions.
At an age when most other boys of his class were
at school he was placed in a position of unchecked
control over the most degraded of mankind. His
whim was the destiny of scores of human beings.
In a caprice and without reason he could, if he so
chose, send men to the triangles and the gallows,
and, unless the sparse records of the epoch lie like
one of Parson Ford’s pet convict-converts, he
made the choice on, at least, one occasion. In
other words, a folio in a Sarah Island Register
records, tersely, that convict Such-an-one was
hanged “By Order of Lieutenant Darrell.”
Nothing more. No statement of offence, no note
of any inquiry. Why should there be? It was
only one ruffian the less on the roll of Macquarie
Harbour, and about thirty pounds per annum
saved to the Colonial Treasury. If the System
seemed at times wasteful of human life, the waste-
fulness was only apparent. Underneath there
was a solid economy. For every man hanged
saved the system so much money.
* * *
Darrell, boy as he was, had, prior to his
receiving command of the logging party, achieved
reputation both among the Authorities and the
prisoners as a brilliant administrator. He gave
his days to formal duty, and—meritorious young
man ! —his nights to qualifying himself for higher
positions in the hierarchy of the System. Like
the John Price of a later period, he formed inti-
macies with the convicts in order to ascertain
their modes of thoughts, their secret practices,
and their mysterious modes of communication.
And, as though the soil of the System, embued as it
literally was with the sweat of pain and blood
drawn forth by lash and bayonet, could not
blossom into a sufficiently luxuriant brutality to
please him, he studied to invent new punishments
and to adopt old ones to present exigencies.
He took an unused “cat,” and experimented
with it till he had arranged a new cracker to each
tail to his satisfaction. He had plaited into the
strands of whip-cord a length of copper-wire.
He made another alteration. He added a tenth
tail. But he found that the additional lash sub
tracted from the value of the instrument of ohas'
tisement. It clung to the other tails so as to
produce no more than six or seven welts
against nine caused by the old-style whip. “Ahi”
he said, “King Billy knew what he was about
when he kept to the nine. You can’t use more
with benefit!” And forthwith he abandoned the
altered scourge for the old pattern.
He read somewhere an account of the way the
formats of France were locked up at night and
with the eagerness of youth over a new game was
all anxiety to introduce the method into V.D.L
“Fancy!” he exclaimed to Captain Bankes
“ I’ll knock all their rioting and devil’s business
on the head !”
The plan which was to attain that highly-desif-
able result was to run two iron bars the full
length of each dormitory, and at a height from the
floor of six inches. As the prisoners" lay on the
ground in a double row, heads against either wall
their feet would be chain-locked to the bars. ’
“ They’d never sleep,” rejoined Bankes. ’“ And
what if a man were taken ill ?”
“ Oh, prisoners sleep anyhow and anywhere
and nine-tenths of the illness is only shamming
Abraham to shirk work.”
This was reasoning which quite commended
itself to Captain Bankes’ judgment, and he re
ported favourably upon the scheme. Colonel
Sorell, however, squelched it. His Honor couldn't
see his way to the expense, much to Darrell’s
regret.
Then, again, Lieutenant Darrell was the origin-
ator of the marooning system.
Within musket-shot of Sarah Island were throe
islets. The largest was the burial-place of the
convict dead, and was known as Halliday’s
Island, after the first prisoner who was buried
there. The next in size was noted on the charts
as Settlement Isle. Here were interred the remains
of the “Free” dead—the officers and soldiers
who died while on duty at the Harbour. This
separation, by the way, of the “ Bond ” and “ Free”
after death was one of the few merciful acts of
which the System was ever guilty. It left the
prisoner in the kindly embrace of the Great
Emancipator undisturbed by companionship with
the dust of his oppressors. The third islet, a rock
so small that the waves frequently swept its sur-
face, was known as the Pilot or Grummet Reck.
“ Here,” writes an historian, with a truthfulness
in detail that a mere tale-monger cannot rival
“cells were excavated for the reception of such
incorrigibles as were unsubdued by the Bastille of
the Harbour. Conveyed in a boat to within a few
yards of the rook, the doomed man had to wade
through the surf with his provisions, to clamber
up into one of those comfortless recesses, and was
left for days and weeks to add his yell to the sea-
bird’s scream and the dreary moan of the Western
wind.” Lieut. Darrell was the inventor of this
ingenious method of subjugating theunsubduable.
And, not to rob him of a single leaf of his laurels,
we may as well say that his plan went a step
further than that described by the historian above.
He provided for the chaining down of any
peculiarly untractable spirit to the exposed rock.
There were other excellencies of the System
which owe their creation to the Lieutenant’s
fertile ingenuity, but it is needless to recount them
here. We have said enough to show that the
juvenile officer was a connoisseur of what Lord
Stanley termed the “ reformatory agencies.” The
lad made but one mistake. Most geniuses are


Advise your friends to drink Wolfe’s Schnapps.
Bona-Fide announcement. Highest cash price
given for all kinds of gent’s left off clothing.
Dress-suits for sale or hire. Letters proi ptlv
attended to by OUITTENTON BROS., ill
Russell street, MELBOURNE. (New number,
IbS,)
The London & Sydney Tea Co. supply squatters
and farmers at wholesale prices.
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
The reliable buggies and waggons at 22 and 24
Clarence-street (corner of Margaret-stre’et).
Try Colemane and Son’s Eucalypte
Lozenges and Honey.
Bladon’s Health Saline. Invigorating and
refreshing. W. O. Smith, 251 Elizabeth-st.
Old-fashioned Jewellery modernised to perfection. De-
igns free. Baums and Co., King-street Arcade,
A fair beautiful skin.—Sulpholine Soap
gives the natural tint and peach-like b oom of a
perfect complexion ; makes the skin smooth,
supple, hea.thy, comfortable* 6d. tablets. Every-
where.
Western Australia, the coming colony. Perth
land should be worth buying and holding for a
rise. W. J. Douglas, CO liathurst-street, Sydney.
The Choicest Jewellery. Daums & Co., King-st. Arcade
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
Fortune for a few pounds.—Buy land in the
Capital City of West Australia. W. J. Douglas.
96 Bathurst-street, Sydney.
Charlemont and Co., high art photographers,
Royal Arcade, altogether owe their measure of
success to the fact that the merits of their photo-
graphy are always of a high order.
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
JEGORY &
5
161
ENGINEERS
- -A-Ostu -
Clarence-st„ SyOney, & at
have large stocks of the undermentioned .MACHINERY, &c.
General Machinery Merchants.
Melbourne & BrisUane,
PUMPING MACHINERY.
BLAKE’S DIRECT ACTING
STEAM PUMPS (single and
duplex).
BLAKE’S POWER PUMPS.
BLAKE’S DOUBLE PLUNGER
PUMPS.
Lawrence machine co.’s
CENTRIFUGAL PUMPS.
GOULDS HAND A POWER
PUMPS.
I
BDSON’S DIAPHRAGM PUMPS
Also, all sizes of
BIPING, FITTINGS, VALVES,
HOSE, Ac., Ac.
Webber’s 3E*a/L©M.t:
Cexx’tx’ifHa.gjcLl
3P IX **!;£>
MINING MACHINERY.
MAKERS BLOWERS,
STI RTEVANT’S FAN. BLOWERS
am. EXHAUSTS.
I )UNCAN CONCENTRATORS.
TWO-HEAD STAMP BATTERIES.
LAMBERTON’S PATENT PUL-
VERISING MILLS.
UNION ORE CRUSHERS.
BRYAN MILLS.
TAYLORS HAND ORE
CRUSHERS.
HAND AMALGAM MORTARS.
HYDRAULIC NOZZLES & DE
ELECTORS (for sluicing).
Also, FLEXIBLE STEEL WIRE
rope, AMERICAN FUSE,
Ac., Ac.
& I EATNT ENG 1N KS Horizontal and Vertical, with and without Boilers-combined, from two horse now or VFFTTPai rhttfpq c ± 1 TT . ,
Fiumios. Boiler Feed Tniectors
born too early ; Darrell committed the blunder
of being born too late. The System did its best
to utilise his peculiar gifts, but he was compara-
tively wasted in an enlightened age. He would
have graced the agonies of Count Ugolino with a
fresh torture, have proved an invaluable auxiliary
to Torquemada, and as a deputy to my Lords of
the Star Chamber he would have relieved their
policy from the stigma of monotonous blood-
thirstiness which attached to it, for he would have
suggested so many pretty refinements. Alto-
gether, a very promising youth, Lieutenant
Darrell.
* * *
Most officers would have kicked against
the fiat that sent them for three months at a time
to th° depths of the forest with no other company
than a score of desperate malefactors and a hand-
ful of illiterate soldiers. Mot so Darrell. He
revelled in the prospect of carrying out certain
experiments on the temper of his gang, and par-
ticularly anticipated, with positive enjoyment,
the employment of a novel style of gag, the intro-
duction ot which into the routine of Barah Island
Captain Bankes had prohibited.
“ I'll leave you a free hand with your own men,
Darrell, ’ had said the Commandant in issuing
final instructions for the trip up the Garden,
“ because there is no knowing what may happen.
But take my advice don’t use that new spring
gag of yours. They’ll murder you if you do ! The
thing is too painful altogether.”
“-Not they, sir,” had replied Darrell, “they only
murder men who’re afraid of them. But I pro-
mise you I’ll only use the gag once, just to see
how it works.”
He kept his word : he applied the newly-
designed instrument but once. Which, however,
by a very annoying distastefulness on the part of
the prisoners to its operation, proved once too
often. The way of the inventor is often hard.
The gang, linked to a long chain, were engaged
in rafting some newly-felled timber one Saturday
afternoon, when a storm of almost cyclonic
violence burst upon them. A sleety rain, then
hail, then a mad, whirling wind that snapped off
the giant pines sixty or seventy feet from the
ground and thirty or forty from their crests. The
rain and hail cut the prisoners’ faces and hands
like knives, and the falling timber, though it was
borne as easily on the breath of the gale as thistle-
seed on a summer-breeze, came crashing round
them in an affrighting fashion, and, naturally
enough, the men impulsively moved to shelter as
speedily as the chain to which they were ironed
would allow them. Had they waited a moment
longer, Darrell, who, with the guard, was likewise
exposed to the fury of the storm, would have
ordered the prisoners into safety, but, for the men
to seek cover without instructions—why, ’twas
rank mutiny ! He ground his teeth as he saw the
workers leave the Jogs.
“To the cliff, men,” he called to the soldiers.
And protect your locks.” The guard placed
their muskets under their tunics and rushed across
the narrow clearing which separated the fringe of
forest from an overhanging cliff by the river-
bank, beneath whose walls were already grouped
the convicts. Darrell followed them. When
under the shelter of the granite mass he com-
manded the guard to examine their priming.
“Right, No. 1?” “Yes, sir.” And so on,
down the short line.
He was facing the privates, and standing
between them and the prisoners, as he asked if the
weapons were fireable. On being answered, he
turned on his heel, and ordered the huddled
“ Gov’mentmen ” then to resume work.
The storm was at its height. Against the
snow-topped Frenchman’s Cap to the northward,
lightning was darting in terrific dashes as though
Titanic warriors were hacking at the monolith
with gleaming swords. Thunder rolled magnifi-
cently through the ranges, but its receding rever-
berations were unheard amid the roar of the wind
and of the foaming current which, the one above
and the other below, swept down the gorge of the
Gordon. And though, by the clock, nightfall was
still some hours ahead, the low-hung clouds soon
filled the clearing with an unearthly shadow. The
convicts clanked their fetters in the tremors of
their superstitious horror as they peered at the
elemental war from their entrenchment in the
oavelike recess, and it is doubtful whether they
heard the Lieutenant’s order, though he stood but
15 paces distant.
He repeated it, and in the same breath ordered
the guard to the “ Present.”
. The muskets, better than the words, carried
significance to the brutish minds. Several of the
felons, more cowardly than the rest, flung them:
selves to the earth. The others, amazed, stood as
motionless as the tightened chain would let them.
“Do you hear, pris’ners?” said Darrell, and
to make Quite sure that they did hear, he stepped
forward a couple of paces : “Do back to the
logs ! ”
“ this rain, sir?” asked, with marked civility,
one Robins. Robins, a man originally of good
station, was a wiry, grey-headed lithe figure, aged
14 years. Landed at Sydney 17 years before
with a “life’’-sentence, he had been despatched
in 1823 Macquarie Harbour, to serve as many
years as Nature and the System would permit him
of the seventy-five which “colonial sentences” had
piled upon his original penalty. In short, he was
a monster. Nevertheless, a very civil monster at
times. His mates on the gang-chain shrank from
him to the utmost limit of their iron tether when
he spoke to anyone with an oily politeness. For
Dick Robins was then in his most devilish mood.
“In this rain, sir?” was what he asked—with
the especial grace of tone which had won for him
the title of “Dancing-school Dick.”
“In this rain ! ” repeated Lieutenant Darrell,
- ironically. %
“I’ll see you d d first!” was Mr. Robins’
rejoinder. And he folded his arms to wait for
what would come next,
Darrell calmly put his hand into the pocket of
his jacket and brought out his new gag. The
idea of it was not altogether original, perhaps,
for something like it had been used for rebellious
servants by the great Richelieu, but, still, Darrell’s
invention had “ points ” of its own. It was, for
one thing, cheaply made. Two pieces of hoop-
iron were curved into a pear-like protuberance.
Into the ends, riveted so as to form a hollow
stair, was doubled a length of flexible steel. This
latter bit of metal, pushed into the “swell” of
the pear, would fly open, act as a spring and
distend the bars of iron.
Robins had never seen the sweet thing before,
and looked at it curiously.
“What did you say ?” enquired Darrell.
Robins opened his mouth to reply, and in a
second the boy-officer had flung himself upon the
convict, and the gag was between the convict’s
jaws. A pressure of the Lieutenant’s thumb and
a clicking sound were evidence that the pretty
invention had acted perfectly. A weak humani-
tarian might have said too perfectly, for the
sudden distention of the gag ripped open the
cheeks, and Robins’s mouth was widened a
quarter-of-an-ineh on either side.
You could always depend upon an official of the
System for improving upon Nature. Nature
connected men’s vertebrae and endowed men with
perfect windpipes. The System was never so
pleased as when it was breaking the former,
except when the rope severed the latter. Nature
gave men whole skins. The System was partial
to the investigation of the problem—How many
men could survive after the cuticle of their backs
was stripped off. And, in the matter of men’s
mouths, Nature seldom errs on the side of small-
ness. The System, however, was not satisfied.
It had, by Lieut. Darrell’s agency, undertaken to
enlarge men’s natural mouths.
Robins clapped his hand to his bleeding jaws.
A curious sound came through his fingers—an
idiot-like gurgle. Darrell laughed, quite pleased.
“ You’ll go to work now, Robins, my man, and
you won’t leave it without orders again, will vou ?
Now—march !”
From Robin’s right arm was dangling a manacle.
He wore' it always, for he, alone of all the gang,
was locked j;o the wall of the dormitory during
the night. Perhaps there were two pounds’
weight in these irons, not reckoning the basil.
Robins, at Darrell’s last words, moved, as
though to obey. And then —exerting all the
immense strength stored in his muscles by the
arduous gang-labour, he slashed the dangling
manacles into his tyrant’s face, and, repeating the
blow, brought him, stunned and bleeding, to the
ground. The military guard of six men had still
their muskets at the level, and each one of the six
pulled his trigger. One only of the weapons
went off, and that fruitlessly ; the others snapped
harmlessly, the moisture of the atmosphere having
. penetrated to the pans. The soldiers bad not time
to replace the priming before the chain with its
human and metallic links had encircled them in a
deathly embrace. The military, unfortified by
the example or voice of their officer, were power-
less before that charge of fiends, through whose
veins were now coursing the long, dammed-up
floods of revenge and hate, of lust for blood, and
the ferocity of despair. In the next few moments
the felons had balanced their account with the
System for years of punishment. As has hap-
pened at so many periods and in so many climes,
it was poor Tommy Atkins who bore the brunt of
his superiors’ wickedness and folly.
The grave of five out of the six may be still seen
on Settlement Island. The sixth man lingered
for a few weeks —long enough for him to be
rescued, to be sent to Hobart Town, and to tell
the story to drunken old Sorell, who stood by his
bedside in the General Hospital. He was buried
in Davey-street cemetery.
# # #
Their first frenzy expended, the gang pro-
ceeded to estimate their position. The whole
affair had consumed no more than three or four
minutes, but in that time their world had been
turned topsy-turvy. Before the gagging they had,
one and all, though ironed and sunk into the
depths of physical wretchedness and moral shame,
been still free of the gallows. Now, the rope was
virtually round all their necks. On the other-
hand, they had been the sport of a tyrant, and
victims pushed before the Juggernaut car of the
System. Now, at least, they were free!
Their first care was to free Robins from the gag.
With great difficulty, and with something of
tenderness of touch, one of their number with-
drew the gory metal from the jagged mouth.
Their next impulse was to free themselves from
the chain. With Stoic fortitude Robins bade
them draw up to line, and then led them till they
formed a circle round the body of young Darrell,
who Ir d not yet returned to full consciousness.
Robins motioned to the man on the last couple.
“Search him,” he said, with painful utterance,
“ for the key. I don’t—want to touch— him —yet.
If—l—get my hands on him —I’ll kill him—and I
don’t want to—yet.”
The recipient of the order obeyed. He dragged
his length of chain to the centre of the circle, and,
kneeling down, fumbled in the pockets of the
prostrate officer till he found his bunch of keys.
His action partially awoke Darrell to himself.
“What are you up to? ” he mumbled, dazedly.
“ Lug ’im in th’ jaw ! ” shouted a convict.
The words suggested an idea to Robins.
“The gag—where is it?” he cried. And, one
who had held it mechanically since it had been
taken from Robins’ mouth, held'it up.
Robins took it, and examined it carefully. But
he was unacquainted with the trick of readjusting
the steel spring, and, throwing it to the prisoner
kneeling by Darrell, told him to “ put it in just as
it was.”
Darrell, barely apprehending their object, and
not yet understanding what had happened to the
guard, tried to struggle to his feet, and called on
the soldiers. He was forced back, other convicts
went to the first man’s assistance, and—Lieutenant
Darrell was gagged with his own invention. If it
did not act quite as effectively in his case as in
Robins’—(it did not tear open the corners of his
mouth)—we must concede a little to the convicts’
unfamiliarity with the ingenious thing. They had
not, as Darrell had, the advantage of preliminary
experimentalising.
All this time, the storm had been raging, and
the prisoners had scarcely got their individual
chains unlocked from the common cable, before
a sudden change in the wind brought its force
round the angle of the cliff and thrust leaves and
branches and sleet into their shelter.
“We’ll have to make for the huts,” said one,
and the rest assented. They were loth to tempt
the storm, but the rook protected them no longer,
and besides they had no wish to remain in com-
pany with the lifeless forms now that night was
drooping over the ghastly place.
“What’ll we do with th’ offset?” queried
another. To which silly inquiry there could be,
of course, but one reply. As if they were going
to encumber themselves with the boy! But
Robins suggested they should make him safe. So
they dragged the wreck of a big tree behind
the rock, and with some of their own chains bound
him thereto. Twenty full-grown men placing
bonds on a boy for their personal protection was a
spectacle for laughter,_ surely; but the felon
wretches realised in their animalish instincts that
they were binding more than I Jarrell. They were
putting the gyves on Law and Authority.
And so they left Lieutenant Darrell to the
mercy of the elements all that awful Saturday
night. Gagged and bound, faint from the loss of
blood which had issued from an opening Robins’
manacles had made in his scalp,’ sick and food*
craving, drenched from the ice-cold rain, and in
momentary danger from hurtling timber, he yet
lived through it. At a place and in a day when
endurance under bodily torture was not heroic,
because it was manifested by criminals or their
keepers, Darrell’s survival wgs not phenomenal.
In any other place and time, lie would have been
apostrophised in odes, and eloquence would have
lamented its inability to do him justice.
# # * .
On the Sunday morning Robins, the one
man who had kept sober during the orgy which
had marked the late hours of the furious night,
strolled from the huts to the place where Darrell
had been left. The air was as pure and the sun-
shine as bright as ever visited that sombre region,
for the malarial vapours that customarily Riled
the gloomy aisles of the forest had vanished before
the storm ; and, what with the brightness of the
day and the sense of freedom, Mr. Robins was in
gay spirits. It was sufficient for him to know
that in the store behind him there was grog
enough and food enough to last a month, that the
force which could alone re-oapture him and his
associates was twenty-odd miles away, and that a
few hundred yards in front of him lay, bound and
fettered, an enemy with whose sufferings he pro-
posed to entertain himself. It would, under the
circumstances, have been surprising if he had re-
frained from waking the primeval echoes by
whistle and song,
Darrell welcomed him with a grunt which might
have been an oath. Wet, shivering with cold and
feverish weakness, and cramped by the weight of
irons, the lad had will enough to gibe and taunt
the convict. Robins listened with an amiable
smile to the grunting.
“ That’s right, Mr, Darrell, fire away. I don’t
objeo’ if it does you good.” And then he asked
him, with solicitude in his voice, “What would
his Honor Tike for breakfast? There was some
prime bacon at the store—would a rasher satisfy
his Honor, and would he have cocoa or coffee ? A
tot of brandy first, or after? And would his
Honor shave at once, or wait till ire had break-
fasted ?” .
The officer’s ankles and hands were tied, and
the convict loosened the knottings of the former
so that Darrell could shuffle along. Then he
hauled the officer to his feet, and suggested they
should start for the huts. To leave no room for
contradiction on the point, Robins, picking up
one of the muskets with a fixed bayonet, quietly
prodded his late Commandant!
“ I’m always grateful, Lieutenant,” the convict
said, pleasantly. “ Always ! You’ve done that
aforetime to me to help me over a rough place
when I’ve had a log on my shoulder, and though
you ain’t got a log to carry, you're in rather a
tight place, and so I’ll just give you a lift—so!”
And_ Mr. Darrell’s progress was again gently
facilitated by the bayonet-tip.
# # «
To describe the indignities these enfran-
chised wretches heaped on the young officer would
be impossible. And yet this much has to be said
about them. Indescribable as many are, nameless
as most shall be, Robins took care that in the
gang’s treatment of Darrell they did no more than
parody the System.
They did not give Darrell a hot breakfast. They
mixed him some cold flour and water, and, remov-
ing the gag from his swollen lips, forced the
nauseous stuff down his throat with a leaden
spoon. The System used to feed ’em on that flour
and water.
They prepared some grog ; stirred it right under


Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
Give the London & Sydney Tea Co. one trial,
they guarantee satisfaction.
PURE OLD
AUSTRALIAN
Wi nos.
SPi'X'l AI.ITIKS:
CLARET and HOCK.
CALDWELL <V CO.,
Melbourne,
AW
Lake Albert Vineyard, Wagga Wagga, M.S.W,
Eye - Sight Restored.
WHY SUFFER ! We send gauge for testing sight,
a treatise on “Vision,” and all information free. Spec-
tacles of every description from Is.; Pebbles from sg.
Pilot Field Glass, clear definition five miles, with case.
“Liver” Telescope, with astronomical glass, clear
six miles, 21s. Good going Silver Watches, 235.,
nickle, 12s. 6d., 15s. and 205., guaranteed two years!
W. E. Toose, Optician, 418 George-street, Sydney!
Awarded Nine Medals at various Exhibitions
WOOL, 'WOOIL.,
THE MEW ZEALAND
Loan &, Mercantile Agency
COMPANY, LIMITED.
BRIDGE STREET. SYDNEY.
Capital, £4,500,000 ... Reserve, £270,000
Wool Season* 1888-89.
Regular Sales of Wool Held Throughout the
Season.
rpHE greatest care bestowed on the Valuation and the
A Displaying and Protecting all Wools entrusted to
the Company for sale, whether from large or small clips.
ygf” Growers Advised and Consulted with before Sales
of their Clips are made.
Liberal Cash Advances, where desired, on Wool lieu
of Ensuing Clip, and on Wool and other Produce, whether
for sale in Sydney or shipment to London.
Auction Sales of Sheep Skins, Marsupial
Skins, Hides, Tallow, &c., Held Regularly.
yy Every Information Supplied on Application,
G. S. CAMPBELL, Manager.
SYDNEY WOOL St GRAIN WAREHOUSES
Bridge and Loftus Streets.
BRITISH
ARGOSY
BRACES.
IV
A Lasting Favourite with all Wearers
Patentees & Sole Manufacturers for Great Britain
and the Colonies,
W. Bleixkiron & Son,
123 WOOD STREET, LONDON.
ƒ
I
(
■ The following important fact cannot be too frequently
Impressed upon the minds of suffering humanity, tna
Mr. Gould, E.8.P., of Bradford, has for some thne past
and is now giving the Hop prescription for Bitters no-
all applicants who send a Post Office Order for Sixpence
for postage. Anyone in possession of this valuable pre-
scription can for lOd. make a quart of this marvellous
medicine, and for Is. Bd. can make two quarts, suffi-
cient to serve for two weeks. It may be interesting to
learn that with this prescription all kinds of oopme'ft
cases have been treated with success when all other
remedies had absolutely failed. People who have been
partly paralysed have been relieved or cured with tnis
prescription, others have had their reason restored;
people who could not sleep have bad their sleep re-
stored, others who could not eat have had their appetite
restored; people who had suffered for years with in-
digestion and its consequences have had their digestive
powers restored; people who have suffered martyrdom
wth a disordered liver, nervous debility, Ac., have
been cured; people subject to an accumulation or
wind and water have found it disappear under its
influence. A gentleman at Lincoln subject to nts
fortnightly has not had a fit from the first moment
he began taking it. People troubled for years with
constipation have had their bowels become regular uhder
its influence. It is a choice, rare, remarkable remedy.
The prescription is simple, it is cheap, it is good, inos©
who haven't sent for it should. It will be found safe,
sure, and reliable in a most all a-Iments incident to tn©
human frame. It is a tonic, alterative, and an apejjent
combined of marvellous curative properties. Ojese
important facts may seem incredible, but it «as don&
far more than is here claimed for it, proof of which 18
sent with each Prescription, and it is given absolutely
free ■ f charge to all applic nts who send a Post ( me©
Order for Sixpence for postage of the same Colonial
stamps or coins tire useless. A mode of seli-tieatmen
at home has been a long-xelt want by all well-regula ■-
minds, and wall be found exceedingly advantageous
to sensible persons who desire to know what tney
are swallowing. Address —Mr. GOULD, p ,r
Manchester-road. Bradford, Yorks, England. 0 When
writing name this puper.
Ixx Use XOO Yea,ra
THE POOR MAN’S FRIEND.
DR. ROBERTS^
qkin diseases.
QKIN DISEASES.
QKIN DISEASES.
DISEASES.
DISEASES.
THIS VALUABLE OINTMENT
(as originally prepared by be.
ROBERTS, M.D.) is confidently
recommended as an unfailing
remedy for Wounds of every
scriplion, (Chilblains, Scorbutic
Eruptions, Burns, Sore an 11 n
flamed Eyes, Eczema, &c.
Dr. Roberts’ Alternate Pills.
S 1
s hl "
S K,N
S K,S
QKIN
S K,S
For the
DISEASES.
DISEASES,
DISEASES,
DISEASES
DISEASES
DISEASES
BLOOD ami SKIN.
Very effectual in the cure of that
form of skin disease which shows
itself in painful cracks in the skin
of the hands and in all soay
diseases. They may be taken a
all times without confinement or
change of diet.
Sold at Is. lid., 2s. 9d., U«-
i. 225. each, by the I‘roprictois, Brio
port, England,
his nose; put the pannikin to his very lipa-»and
then dashed its contents in his face. Which was
a favourite amusement of Lieutenant Darrell him-
They lathered his face with a shameful decoc-
tion—and scraped it off with hoop-iron, to which
clung also some flakes of skin and tufts of whisker.
Captain Baukes’ exclusive joke, this. Nearly
every commanding officer had his own patent
method for deriving pleasure from convicts con-
tortions, , ,t . t il.
They trussed him, like a fowl. Next to the
seduction of soldiers’ wives, and the execution
without trial of convicts, few things used to confer
a greater degree of happiness on Colonel Foveaux
(sometime Lieutenant-Governor of Norfolk Island
and afterwards Administrator of New South
Wales) than to truss prisoners.
They held a Prayer-book before him. The Sys-
tem issued to Superintendents and Commandants
a “ Form of Prayer ” up with the Regula-
tions, and prescribed the reading of the whole
contents of the book every Sunday. Darrell
refused to open his lips. The gang cancelled his
objections with the prick of the bayonet. He had
mumbled half a page when Robins bade him stop.
Then that eminently ingenious rogue found for
him “The order for the Burial of the Dead,’ and
made him read it through.
“There,” cried the blasphemous wretch as
Darrell finished, “not many men can say they’ve
read their own burial service. But you have, my
boy ! Ain’t you proud, sonny ?”
* * *
Before he began the reading they had
flogged him. Each man had taken the cat—
Darrell's own copper-wired cat —and had given
him one blow. “Don’t hit hard, lads,” begged
Rabins, “leave some life in him —for the after-
noon.” (For a man with festering lips, Robins
did an astonishing amount of talking that dav !)
And the convicts obeyed, and did no more than
raise puffy stripes on the flesh —where the System
would have put gashes.
After the reading, they flung a rope over a
branch of a tree. However, they didn’t quite
hang him. It isn’t the first sudden haul up to
£he beam that breaks the neck or chokes the
windpipe —it’s the after suspension. And a
bucketful of water brought Lieutenant Darrell
back to his senses. Here, again, there was another
departure from the System. The System would
never have brought the bucket into requisition.
« * *
Towards four o’clock', the men desired to
bring the matter to a climax. They wished to be
done with Darrell, once and for all, and to get to
the grog again. And so they permitted him to
rest while they discussed the manner of his death.
For, of course, the moment they reversed the
conditions, both he and they knew he would have
to die. * , ,
In that ribald conclave, some were for shooting
him, others for hanging him outright, others for
repeating that grim Sydney episode of T 5 when
certain convicts hunted out an ants’ nest, and
pegged a gang-overseer on it to be eaten alive.
But Captain Robins had his plan.
“Look here, lads, Darrell, you know, can’t find
his way anywhere unless he’s guided. Put him a
hundred yards from the Settlement, and he’ll
lose himself !” This was quite true—Darrell,
abnormally intelligent in most things, was abso-
lutely deficient in the sense of locality.
“Well, what then?” suspiciously asked one of
the gang. “You ain’t a-goin’ to be fool enough
to let ’im loose ?”
“Why, that ’ud be the best fun—take him ten
miles im the stream and turn him loose. Why,
he’d starve, and he’d have no mates to keep him
alive!”
That last ghastly shot told on two of his
hearers. Like the’discoverer of the pine-patch,
they had mysteriously sustained life in the forest
wilderness.
Robins went on :
“ But we’ll give him his choice how he’ll die—
whether he’ll be turned out to starve, or whether
he’ll take his death standing. Now, my idea’s
this :—This dormitory has two doors—one at the
east and the other at the west end. Outside of
one end two of us take up our stations with axes,
and if he comes out of that door, we just let him
have it. If he comes out of the other door he has
to go into the forest. He can’t cross the junction
without QUf speing him, apd even if he could he’d
pever fipd his way to the Harbour. So he’s bound
to starve. Only we don’t starve him in that case.
We give him his freedom. And supposing he
goes out of the other door, and the axes do tumble
on him —well, that'll be a voluntary act, too, won't
it ? We don’t compel him to go out of that door.
And none of the chaps inside know which door
the lads with the axes go to, d’ye see?”
At first there was demurring to their leader’s
plan, but the more it was discussed ihe more its
devilish ingenuity grew upon the gang. Finally,
it was approved, the objection of those who would
have preferred to behold Darrell’s dying agonies
being demolished by the consideration that the
suspense would add new tortures to his sufferings.
"* « #
They cut his bonds and brought him from
the soldiers’ hut, into the dormitory. Robins ex-
plained the position. “We have placed the men,”
explained that distinguished villain, “but no
one inside knows which door they are behind.
They make their own choice outside. You’ve to
make yours inside ! ”
Robins was leaning against the north wall of
the dormitory as he spoke. Darrell was facing
him. .
“You won’t give me any inkling which door
these men are at? ”
“J couldn’t if I would, And I wouldn’t if I
could,” answered Robins.
Darrell looked round. The eager eyes, glut-
tonous of his pain, glared on him. But in no
glance was there any index to point to the door of
freedom. He smiled disdainfully, and then took
a few steps toward the right-hand, the eastern
door. Half-way, however, he paused, wavered,
and went as near to the other door.
As they saw his dreadful vacillation, and that
g reat beads of sweat were dewing his forehead,
although the contemptuous smile was still re-
tained—by how strenuous an effort, God knows !
on his lips, they exulted, and thanked Robins for
his happy idea !
Up and down, went the boy, trying to peer
through the cracks of the loers, leaning his ear
against the end walls as though he would learn
their station from the sentinels’ breathing; up
and down, up and down, not counting his paces,
but every step being unerringly checked off in his
brain ; up and down till the gang grew impatient,
taunted him, prodded him.
# * *
Then Robins threw him one of his own
guineas. “Toss up for the door,’’sneered the felon.
Darrell caught the coin eagerly. At least, it
would save him the pain of decision !
“Heads, the left, the west door,” shouted
Robins, “tails, the east door.”
And the coin was spun as we have told. And
Darrell went to the left dnor, and opened it .
PRICE WARUNG.
The Nobility of the Daily Pressman.
Dear Bulletin, — The impending withdrawal
from publication of one of the Melbourne evening
papers, with a view, it is probable, to its incor-
poration with its hated rival, should be quite
sufficient to teach the members of the Victorian
Reporters’ Association what a fairweather, wax-
doll organisation theirs has been. With the
stoppage of the paper, which, it is stated, has
already been decided on, at least a dozen members,
or about a fifth of the total strength of the
Association, will be thrown out of work. They
must either starve, walk north or—rat, and most
of them will rat, because they are of that puny
construction that dearly loves the city, and weeps
at the sight of the pick and shovel,
* * *
The situation is first this. Many of the members
are possessed of a cheap, Yoriek-club pride, which
prevented them from affiliating with the comps.
Now, a union of any description of labourers is
formed for the single and distinct purpose of
bettering the condition of its members, and,
patently, the first and greatest betterment js the
obtainal of better wages for a decreased period of
working. Reporters, possibly more than anyone
else, require this betterment even if tlrey do not
desire it, and the only weapon they can ever suc-
cessfully use to this end is the practical sympathy
of the comps. But the Victorian Reporters’
Association, mindful of the fact that it is a vastly
superior person to the plain type-jerker, threw
away the suggestion in disgust. Now, when the
noble dozen of martyrs are “ sacked,” what will
they do? Undersell the others wherever they get
a chance. . And to show what price it will take to
undersell these others, let me show that the
salaries paid to reporters are mostly fixed on the
scale (according to bush proverb) of shearers-cooks’
pay—fair if the shearers are in a good humour,
nothing if they want to save money and pretend
to be dissatisfied with the stew.
# * *
One abject wretch, employed on an extremely
“proper ” daily at a screw of £2 10s. a week (he
thus gets about half the pay of a “whip’’com-
positor who does night-work), is on duty at 10.30
a.m. every day. At 1 a.m., 15 hours later, you
can find him investigating the watchhouse-book at
one or other of the lockups, or grovelling among
corpses and accidents at the Hospital, trying to
find materials for one of the cheap sensations
fancied by his “journal.” On another daily a
friend of mine is employed to do police-news at
three-ha’pence a line. A few weeks back he
earned the magnificent sum of six and sixpence for
eight days’ work, and even then had to pay in-
numerable tram-fares to get the copy to the
He works as much as he likes, generally from half
a column to a column a day, and his paper prints
as much as it likes thereof. He tells me that there
are many others on the same footing-watchdogs
for wealthy proprietaries at nothing a week. It
is a standing joke - often solemnly alleged to be a
fact—that two reporters of police-news sleep in
front of the watchhouse fires, and take their meals
from the prisoners’ bread-bin. The state of any
business must be terribly rotten when even jokes
of this description are made upon it.
* * #
The many suburban alleged newspapers treat
their men about the same. (Some bloated butcher
owning a little tour-sheet ragengagesa reporter and
editor for 30s. a week, and then considers that he
holds a mortgage over the soul of the unfortunate
employe as well. Of course a single man could
save his 30s. by sleeping underneath the machine
and cadging his provender from local muffin-
struggles and church sprees, but a married man
has a bad time of it under those circumstances, I
should think. And, in the face of all this, the
Victorian Reporters’ Association thinks that it
requires no help from the compositor, Avho is
almost the only man in a daily newspaper-office
who can afford to talk to the proprietor with his
hat on or off, just as he pleases. Admitting
as truth, a lie, for the sake of argument,
viz., that the one class is superior to the other
because it dirties its forefinger and thumb with
ink, and not with leads—the affiliation of the
reporters with any body of men a shade better
than Chinamen would bo infinite nobility com-
pared to the present begging condition of
Melbourne pressdom. That is, of course, pre-
mising that the average mere newspaper-reporter
has a soul. A long experience of him in both his
wild and civilised condition compels me to say
that mostly he has no more soul than he has
grammar. He is generally a biped who is an
excellent machine in that he can write shorthand
and produce brilliant paragraphs beginning
“ Owing to the inclemency of the weather.” or
“The performance of the Road to Wealth last
night gave pleasure to all,” or something of that
Bennettian kind, and who submits to be squeezed
like an orange by his “proprietor” and then
ejected because his poor, cheap, worn-out
brain refuses to dictate anything but “in-
clement-weather ” pars when the thermometer
is registering 105 in the shade. Some of
the greatest snobs in the world are to be
found amongst the reporters, and it is only the
right result considering their environment. The
majority of them from mere force of overstocked
market'and inability to make fair terms must
either bully or cringe, and they do all their cringe-
ing to their proprietor. Another thing against
their ever attaining independence is their “ pro-
fessional respectability ” which makes them
frightened of hard work and the back-blocks.—
Sincerely yours, An old and disgusted Press-
man.
“His Excellency’s” Troubles.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
The present squabble between Mayors, Governors,
and Admiral, recalls two or three amusing in-
cidents which occurred a few years ago in 1 iji,
and which even after this lapse of time are worth
recounting. After the establishment of tlm office
of High Commissioner for the Western Pacific, a
bitter feeling sprang up between the civil and
naval authorities as to who should govern the
islands lying outside the colony of Fiji, in-
eluded in the Commissigner’s jurisdiction, and
control the native affairs in those seas. The senti-
ment grew very bitter, and at last became personal
between the Naval Commander-in-Ohief and the
Governor and High Commissioner.
* * *
Upon one occasion (while Sir Arthur Gordon
was away on leave in England) Commodore
Hoskins sailed into Levuka harbour in the old
Wolverene. Directly the flagship came to an
anchor telescopes • were levelled at her from
Government House, as also at the Administrator’s
residence from the man-o’-war, each party expect-
ing the other to make the first official call.
Commodore Hoskins was a great stickler for
etiquette, and so was Mr. Administrator Des
Yosux, and neither would give way an inch. This
absurd position was maintained for some time.
The Commodore was a prisoner in his ship
because he could not Well go ashore before
he had paid his respects at Government
House, arid the Acting-Governor was also confined
to barracks, because it would be discoui teous not
to await the expected visit of the Naval Com-
raander-in-Chief on the Australian Station ! Could
anything be more ludicrous ? Of course, the
outside public were all agog to know “what was
up” between the two big guns. At last the
Governor’s gig was seen steering for the flagship,
and an accurate observation of her through the
glass showed that Capt. Knollys (A.D.0.) was
seated in the stern-sheets in full uniform, but with
a forage-cap on. Hoskins saw through the ruse at
once and when the arrival of the Governor s A.D.C.
was officially notified to him, the commodore re-
plied ; “ Tell Captain Knollys, with my compli-
ments, that if he visits me in a private capacity I
shall be delighted to see him, but if he comes
officially I must request him to come in full
uniform. ” Knollys had to row back two miles to
Government House to arrange his head-gear before
he paid a second visit to the commodore ! Then
the mystery of non-calling first was explained
thnsly:—The Commodore opened fire by telling
H.E.’s ambassador that in his (the Commodore’s)
position he should immediately have called upon
a Governor or Lieut.-Governor, but he could
not possibly do so upon an Administra-
tor ; it was the latter’s place to pay his
respects first to the Commodore of the station.
The A.D.C. had to travel back to Nasova (then
Government House) to explain the situation to
H.E. Now, Des Yoeux had been a fiery West
Indian autocrat—and also had a liver. He fumed
and stamped and sent back word to the Commo-
dore that the fact of his having being gazetted and
sworn in as “Administrator” was a mistake, as
he held a Lieut.-Governor’s Commission in the
service, and therefore the Commodore should call
first. The upshot of the whole thing was that the
Commodore agreed to call upon the Governor in
plain clothes only, and on condition that H.E.
met him in the porch. This was done, and the
curtain dropped.
# # *
There are plenty of good stories told of Sir
Arthur Gordon, which are absolutely true and
quite apropos to the subject under notice; but
perhaps this time a couple will suffice and tend to
show- what sort of feeling existed between the
civil and naval authorities in the South Seas,
tt * #
Some years back, when H.M.S. Barracouta was
lying in the Levuka roadstead, about half-way
between Government House and a beautiful pool
and waterfall called Yagadace, it was H.E.’s
custom to he rowed the distance (some four miles),
every morning in his gig to have a dip, and he
invariably used the Barracouta as a sort of half-
way-house, and boarded her to enjoy a cup of coffee
with the skipper. Now, be it known that H.E.
always travelled to this bath in pyjamas and
jumper, the early hour selected obviating the
necessity of his wearing the gubernatorial
apparel—and it need not be added that his matu-
tinal visits were quite informal and unofficial.
But, as chance would have it, upon one unlucky
day H.E, and Captain Stevens, of the warship,
had a difference, and on the following morning Sir
Arthur, with the best intentions in the world,
clad in his usual bathing dress, and seated in the
stern-sheets of his gig, pulled for the sloop on his
way to the bath. But, alas for him ! The binocu-
lars were on him, the bugle rang out its clarion
call, orders were promptly given, and when the
Governor stepped on to the quarter-deck in his
“jams,” to his amazement and confusion he was
received by the officers in full uniform, and found
a vice-regal reception awaiting him ! Poor Sir
Arthur! He beat the record in evens as he
scudded into the Captain’s cabin, while the gig
sped swiftly back its two miles to Nasova to get
the Governor’s togs.
# • •
On another occasion Sir Arthur “puthis
foot into it” with Commodore Hoskins. While
taking a cruise on official business in the Wol-
verene, H.E. requested Hoskins to allow him to
flv his High Commissioner’s flag at the fore. The
Commodore briefly declined, saying that only his
flag could fly at the fore of his flagship. H.E. was
nettled, and wrote by next mail to the
Colonial Office in Downing-street, asking that
some regulations should be made under which a
High Commissioner should be entitled to fly a
distinction flag when travelling officially in one of
H.M.’s ships. H.E. chuckled over this despatch,
and had an extra iced-lemonadc at dinner that
evening, for he reckoned he had got to windward
of the Commodore. The mail-boat had left for
Sydney, so he thought he was a mail in advance,
and had played the right-bower. But Hoskins
was one too many for him. The Governor, think-
ing he was safe, allowed his little game to be
known, and the Commodore at once despatched a
vessel of the squadron to Auckland on business.
The wires did the rest, and in due time Sir Arthur
received the biggest snub he ever got in his
life. The reply came back to his despatch
from the late Lord Carnarvon (then Secre-
tary of State for the Colonies) to the effect
ihat it had been decided “by and with the consent
of the Lords of the Admiralty that a High Com-
missioner travelling within his jurisdiction on
board a man-of-war and on official business, should
bo entitled to fly a special flag, but it should re-
main with the senior naval officer on the station
? ,'hat that flay should he, and where it should he
down!" Sir Arthur never asked the question of
i he Commodore, but Hoskins’ grim joke was an
open secret— the yellow flag, hung from a scupper
hole, would he suspended if required! _
R.N.


Medical.
NERVOUS MEN.
S'
\ I \ EUREKA
ELECTRIC!
\5
BELTrt
Nr
A HEVER failing- cure foe. all.
diseases of the nervous system.
Complete with Suspensory Appliances from £l. 0. 0 and
upwards. This .famous Electric Magnetic Belt will cure
NERVOUS DEBILITY, Seminal Debility, Impotence,
fend all weakness caused by indiscretion. Pains in the
Back, Lumbago, Giddiness, Rheumatism, Kidney and
Bladder complaints, and in fact any disease of the Nervous
feystem. The currents are steady and constantly felt by
the wearer. It has great improvements over all other
belts, we are willing to furnish those belts on 30 days
trial, and accept payment after they have proved them-
selves what we represent them to be. Those belts are
made for the specific purpose of producing a continuous,
mild, soothing current of electricity through all the weak-
ened parts, restoring them tp health and vigorous strength,
even the worst case permanently cured in three months.
It is more convenient to wear than any other Belt.
A Book illustrated, containing full information and testi-
monials from prominent people throughout Australia,
and informing persons how they may obtain these belts
without paying for them until they have proved them com-
petent to cure any disease of the Nervous System, will be
forwarded to any address on receipt of a 2d stamp for
postave. $
Address;- VOLTAIC BELT COMPANY
Box 91G, G. P. 0., Sydney.
V
FOR MEN.
Loss of Nerve. Force
Debility wid Decay
may be perfectly regained by the C J fV"V
3S7DISH
TREA'X’ivrEisr’X’. i One Box,' 12s. 6d.,
t’lill COUPSe, iSI. Treatise sent sealed, 4 Stamps.
Addrcsa-Tho CAVENDISH T, ABORATORY.
56 EDSSELL STSEEX, MELBOURNE, VIC
DEBILITATED
WEAK AND_J
NERVOUS Z3l
AN OLD RETIRED
FRENCH HOSPITAL
PHYSICIAN will now
send free how to cure
Nervous and Sexual
Weaknesses, Blood, Sk.n
and Contagious Diseases.
Send six penny stamps
for sealed Treatise and
HOME CURE, Parisian Agency, Box 766, Sydney.
f
w
Tiicopheroos
for THE
hair a skin
An elegant dressing ex-
quisitely perfumed, re-
moves all impurities from
the scalp, prevents bald-
ness and gray hair, and causes the hair to grow
Thick, Soft and Beautiful. Infallible for curing
eruptions, diseases of the skin, glands and muscles,
and quickly healing cuts, burns, bruises, sprains, &c.
Caution. —Kobe genuine without the trade-mark of
Barclay & Co., Kew York, affixed to each bottle
n
fmny's
S*EABt
CREAM
* . forth©
Complexion
Oie fadfVVhL i-! e - S f’i ® unl:> ’i* n Tan, and mantles
CAUTTftw 6 V' Jt 1 y° ll thful bloom and beamy.,
of Barclay & rn O wFv 1D ? without the trademark
_ “way a, Co., New York, affixed to each bottle
“Throw Physic
to th i
Ms!”
TRY NATURE'S OWN REMEDY” ,
electricity.
professor,
MINIATURE'
ALLEN’S
Ivanic Battery
rVledffftd hv ni : •. . , ,
Eminent Physicians, and by
nearly an suiterers to be a positive Remedy for
f ao J' of tlds Wmln l^ 8 ,>s I'eir to. The effl-
Is certain]v e J-f l ’ d lve ntion as a curative agent
tlflcTWuninh Medic al and Scien-
.This BATTimv the 1 Jt , h Ce ntury.'
sle°e,5 le °e, and is wav,, larger than a half-crown
fle d by a sill- 1 10 c ' iest ) next the skin, suspen-
® e ialso{ aroun( b tbe neck. The several
natural hu£ - J S *, con ?l? os . ed nre so arranged that the
■cals in y le s | cm is sufficient to set thechem-
J constant bntif~?? a l ed nie , ta ’ s in motion, generating
from the Battpw°- nt i e ?,? w Electricity which passes
strengthenintr thi v,?v t le Purifying the Blood,
fresh vigor ® Nerves,.Brain and Muscles, infusing
latkigthe Vitnl debilitated Constitution, Stimu-
ab i in g nature ia + f gfl,lls t£ thoii* proper action and en-
*he Battery tl T V °® " l 'ous diseases.
* , c . me Allowing- ailments:—
?«« T lm %- Fenralgia, Ulcers,
Plaints, I’evrf nf, i I Deblht y. Impotence, Liver Corn-
eal OrganVßm W Discasc of the K?dneys and
Asthma, Diphtheria, Fits,
tWLungs dialysis, Disease
Ov eryformof \ ,? tbioat,Sduii Disorders, and almost
The B a w. ies a:ul dains.
’■vliile teeth; :ls il soothing
p,2f Illustrated (;i
"ticnlaw and directions mr use.
% . shi “ i]mg!s
:"‘«eteethink "Tit'" effecfc upon children
-aud^J^.rcuiarsentfree,t free, giving
SHILLI NGS
to t d ? to rekcepers ldl w S, nA? npplie(l ky al > Chemists
*^«JSMkT VV * Co. "geAts, 25,
Medical.
)T WONDERFUL MEDICINE.
Beecham’s Pills
0
PATENT
PILLS
£
%
’■4s
Are Universally admitted
to be worth a Guinea
a Box for bilious
and nervous disorders,
such as wind and pain in
the stomach, sick head-
ache, giddiness, fulness
and swelling after meals,
dizziness, and drowsiness,
cold chills, flushings of
heat, loss of appetite,
shortness of breath, cos-
tiveness, seurvy, blotches
on the skin, disturbed
sleep, frightful dreams,
and all nervous and trem-
bling sensations, &c. The
first dose will give relief
sufferer is earhestlv invited twenty minutes. Every
pin.. »., d Sss^ K 'y to <>gj >»* »•
Worth a Guinea a Box.
7°' females of all ages these Pills are invaluable,
h *" °!, CS ,, 0f tkem carry off all humors, and
rng about al! that is required. No female should
'V 0U em ' is no medicine to be found
? a 0 BEECHAM’S PILLS for removing any
obstruction or irregularity of the system. If taken ac-
cording to the directions given with each box they will
soon restore females'of all ages to sound and robust
health. This has been proved bv thousands who have
tried them, and found the benefits which are ensured by
their use
of tw a^ Stoma ? vY m ? aired Ration and all disorders
he fm.id Y h6y f Ct hke . MAGIC .” and a few doses will
orin« in WO l k wonders «P°n the most important
whole mocprn human machine. They strengthen the
hrinlnY ascular system, restore the long-lost complexion,
bring back the keen edge of appetite, and arouse into ac-
ton with the ROSEBUD of health the whole physical
energy of the human frame. These are “ FACTS ” testified
iv 't. V mem hers of all classes of society ; and
b e st Ti guarantees to the nervous and debilitated
melSTnthe I ‘woricT Sale ° f a ” y patent
Beecham’s Magic Cough Pills.
As a remedy for Coughs in general, Asthma, Bronchial
Affections, Hoarseness, Shortness of Breath, Tightness
and Oppression of the Chest, Wheezing, &c., these Pills
stand unrivalled. They are the best ever offered to the
public and *ill speedily remove that sense of oppression
and difficulty of breathing which nightly deprive the
patient of rest. Let any person give Beechah’s Cough
Pills a trial and the most violent Cough will in a
short time be removed.
Prepared only and sold wholesale arid retail by the pro-
prietor, Thomas Beecham, Chemist, St. Helens, Lancashire,
England, in boxes at Is. IJd. and 2s. 9d. each.—Sold by
all Druggists and Patent Medicine Dealers everywhere.
N.B.—Full directjons are given with each box.
&U/ANIC CHAIN?*?
p
7i
f
I
IF SO,
DON’T MISS THIS
What everyone says is bound to be true, and youn
and old, rich and poor, physicians who recommend, anc
patients who try
The Krupp Galvanic Chain Belt,
All agree in praising that most scientific of Electr
Therapeutical Appliances. For Rheumatism it is un
rivalled. Lumbago at once succumbs to its power. Th
Nervous are strengthened and the Debilitated restored to
perfect health and vigour. In short, the appliance is an
unfailing cure for all Nervous, Sexual, or Chronic Diseases
and is GUARANTEED to ABSOLUTELY CURE, com
pletely and lastingly, the following complaints:—
Dyspepsia, Neuralgia, Tains in the Back and Chest
Lumbago, Catarrh, Rheumatism, Dumb Ague,
Nervous Debility, Paralysis, Kidney Complaint,
Spinal Disease, Female Weakness, Diseases of the
Liver, Impotence, Seminal Weakness, Diabetes,
Sciatica, Atrophy, Gout, Indigestion, Asthma, Piles,
Epilepsy Spermatorrlum, Specks before the Eyes
Excessive Heart Palpitation, Defective Memory.
An Unfailing Cure For Varicocele.
It is a PORTABLE BODY BATTERY, and contains
special appliances for both sexes; therefore, why waste
your money and health by procuring and taking USELESS
DRUGS? Electricity, when properly applied, is acknow-
ledged by all leading and unprejudiced physicians to be
the only safe and radical cure for Nervous and Sexual
Diseases, and the thousands of testimonials received by
the Krupp Belt Co. from leading personages throughout
Australasia prove the unquestionable curative properties
of Elect ricity as applied by the appliance above referred to.
Our confidence in this appliance is so complete, that
we send the Belt out on trial, and guarantee it
to give perfect satisfaction. For full particulars as to
terms, etc., send for our large illustrated treatise, free,
in which these Belts are fully illustrated, the action of
electricity on the nervous system explained, and a lot of
useful information on nervous and sexual diseases given.
This treatise also contains facsimile of testimonials received
from some of our clients who have tried our Belts. The
originals of these testimonials produced on application.
The prices of the Krupp Galvanic Chain Belt and
Suspensory are from £l. x
Sole Inventor .. . Caul Krupp.
Business Manager . . A. W. Courtney.
Address all communicat’ous to the
Krupp Galvanic Chain Belt Co.,
Box 647, G.P.0., Sydney, N.S.W.
Remember—The K.G. Chain Belt cures icithout medicine,
is easy to wear, is sent on approval, and the first cost is
the only cost.
CONSULT PROFESSOR SELBY,
376 Cleveland Street, Surry Hills, Sydney,
Personally or by letter on Chronic Complaints
of the Nervous System, Diseases of the Urinary
Organs and all Impurities of the Blood. A Positive
Cure in all eases amendable to treatment. Suf-
ferers should read the Professor’s valuable treatise,
sent post free to all who send their address. It
contains Advice ox Marriage, worth its weight-
in gold.
Business Announcements.
The bank of new Zealand
Sydnst Branches :
64 PITT STREET, and 538 GEORGE STREET.
Paid-up Capital .. „ £825,000
Uncalled Capital ... 75,000
Reserve Liability 1,500,000
£2,400,000
The Bank has Agents in all the principal cities
throughout the United States of America and
I Canada, and can offer special facilities for dealing
in Bullion, Bills of Exchange, Commercial and
Travellers’ Letters of Credit.
Drafts issued and Bills collected on most favour-
able terms, at rates which can be ascertained on
application.
N. F. GIBLIN, Manager.
A BLESSING IN EVERY FAMILY.
HOLLOWAY’S PILLS AND OINTMENT.
There is not a country in the civilised world where
the healing virtu esof thes a grand medicines have not been,
recognised by thousands of sufferers. In all the ordinary
ailments of humanity their beneficent action is at once
recognised. Fullest directions are supplied for their use
in every disease. IF YOU SUFFER, TRY THEM. Manu-
factured only at 78 New Oxford-st., London. Pur-
chasers should look to the Label on the Boxes and Pots.
If the address is not 523 Oxford-street, London, they are
spunops.
53
EVERY
'ESCRIPjriOI
HAIR WORK DONE:
%
%
3
cT
tf
-V
K
<1
for ladies
•2*24\
ROYAL ARCAdK
MELBOURNE
J. SITTERLIN,
FROM PARIS,
Ladies' Hairdresser. Wigmaker, Si Perfumer,
25 SYDNEY ARCADE, SYDNEY.
HISTORICAL AND FANCY HAIRDRESSING A
SPECIALTY.
Manufacturer of All Kinds op Theatrical
and Street Wigs.
Aiumonlated Quinine,
The most efficient Hair Lotion, to prevent prema-
ture baldness.
Sitterlin’s Vegetable Hair-dye,
The only Hair-dye in the colonies to restore JAght
Hair to its natural colour. All shades.
Succcbs G-waranteed.
MANUFACTURING HATTERS
GEORGE STREET
SYDNEY
IMPORTERS OF AILTHE
NEWESTSHAPES.
And at ALBERT STREET, BRISBANE.
(
■naimB
5* V/
•>*
i
INC
*7
*7
PO
AttUFACTUR£ D By >\ {
‘ '* 3 Jam£s CHW'NOh S/arLourS‘
tj old. Iru all SAcCt/Xtf i? - ,A*S|
SSSbi
Business Announcements.
A. BOWMAN’S
LONDON MADE
Porpoise Hide Boots
Are Reduced from 30s. to 21s.
249 PITT ST., SYDNEY, Near Tattersall's.
Porpoise Hide Wears Twice as Long
as any other Leather.
They _ are noted ail over London,
Birmingham and Liverpool.
Loklclom. IlE’ievsliioxxs,
AND
Fresh Goods Every Fortnight.
Trade Supplied Wholesale at a Great Advantage.
Artoor Vitas,
The Great Life Remedy <L Tonic Invigorator,
IS the Best and Only Medicine which shows a
good result from the moment you take the
first dose. It acts on the blood like a charm, and
tones the internal secretions to healthy action,
restores strength to the stomach, and enables it to
perform its functions ; and for regulating the liver
and kidneys it has no equal. Price —4s. per
package. Also the Great Cure for Catarrh and
Influenza—the Arbor Vitae Oil, 2s. 6d. per
bottle. Sold by all Storekeepers and Druggists.
Sole Agents for New South Wales—
Dan Siitlierlanci & Co.
Wholesale and Retail Tobacconists,
84 King Street. Newtown, SYDNEY.
WILLIAM CARGILL,
Photographic Stock Importer,
26 STREET,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
ARICOCELE
-r
■lta causes, symptoms, arulpatho
■ , >' sy. together vjith a descriptioi
NEW ami SUCCESSFUL METHOD of TREAT
MENT WITHOUT OPERATION. Post free twi
, stamp .
PROFESSOR CARL STINE WAY,
21 ELIZABETH $T , MELBOURNE, VIC
DR. WESTCOTT’S AMEN ORRHCE A
RILES for Ladies, when taken for a few
days before, quickly correct all irregularities
from whatever cause arising ; 2s. Ifd. and 4s. 6d.,
by post 3s. and ss. W. H. SOUL and CO., 190
Pitt-,street, Sydney, Agents.
E~P Pi’S
GEATEFOL—OOMFOETING
COCO A.
Head. I Head.! !
“THE BULLETIN’S”
History of Botany Bay,
By Arthur Gay 11.
Profusely Illustrated by The Bulletin’s well-
known Artists,
L. HOPKINS and PHIL MAY.
Price - One
Per post, Is. 3d.
Hotels.
THE GEORGE HOTEL
(opposite Railway Station , near Baths),
St. Hilda, Victoria.
First-class Family & Commercial Hotel.
For particulars, apply to
WIMPOLB,
proprietor.
PFAHLERT’S. HOTEL,
SYDNEY, N S.W.,
Opposite the Park, Wynyard Square.
(Ruder Mew Management.)
mins for 25 years well-known First-class Central Hotel
recently thoroughly renovated throughout has every
comfort and attention of a home. The Cuisine Department
is under competent-French supervision. Dining Room
open for Non-Residents. Open-air Recreation Garden
A well-ventilated Billiard Room adjoining Recreation
Ground (three Alcock’s best Tables), under the manacc-
ment of A. Buckingham, late of Empire Hotel. Wines
aid Spirits of the very best quality only, and the Finest
and Coolest Bar in Town
HOT AND COLD BATHS.
I*' M<;S!T I niifh
, . Ucrinan
! Vlf jtilOlM' \o. 150. ftnllilH
)
I.Spoken .
SPr. CIA'L SUITES FOR FAMILIES.
CHAS, HECHT Managbb,


SHEVILL & B
AUCTIONEERS and GENERAL AGENTS,
CORNER
Queen's Street and Flinders Lane,
BRANCH OFFICES;
32 Chapel Street, Prahran j
2 Albert Street, Windsor.
MELBOURNE.
WHY REMAIN DEAF
Deafness completely cured by Professor Harvey’s
Patett Electric Head Battery. Self-applied and pain-
less. Ear-drums completely superseded.
Pamphlet free. 145 Collins Street East. Melbourne.
NERVOUS SUFFERERS, from secret or
other causes, consult PROFESSOR
MUMFORD. You will not regret it, but con-
sider it a blessing you saw this notice. 21 Bourkc-
st. East, near White Hart Hotel, Melbourne.
“ A Golden Shanty.”
PRICE—ONE SHILLING.
Bound in handsome Cloth Binding, 2s. Cd., post paid.
SOLD BY ALL AGENTS.
■?//
52
I
i
,
9^
YORK S T *WYNYARD -SQUARE
SYDNEY^r
♦I- Send for catalogue
H. B>. Leach,
SUCCESSOR TO
GB. MODINI, Gunmaker, informs his Customers
• and the Public in general that he has the largest
assortment of Firearms in the colony. Qualities and prices
to defy competition. Guns by the following celebrated
gunmakers:—J. PurdßY & Sons, Ch. Boswell, John ßigbv
and Co., Joseph Lang & Sons, On. Osborne & Co., Thomas
Bland & Son, W. Powell & Sons. A large assortment of
various other makers always on hand, viz., W. W. Greener,
Scott, Webley, Hollis & Sons, Riley and CashmOrb. All
goods will be faithfully guaranteed at 602 George*
street, Sydney. Price list on application.
ISTORY OF BOTANY BAY.
PRICE : ONE SHILLING.
II it ii t i ii tft o 11 Mill.
f
Kuoulrs’ rumps.
PARKE & LACY CO.,
MINING & HYDRAULIC ENGINEERS
AND
GENERAL MACHINERY MERCHANTS,
&o.y &0. ? &0.
187 & 189 Clarence Street,
SYDNEY, 3XT.S.W.
And SAN FRANCISCO, CALIFORNIA.
Rock Breakers.
WestiiiEhonse Engines
Comfort for the Weary; The Invalid’s Friend; and a Haven of Rest for all.
Chair.
fi
nil
r
-k
a
■*>-
■
& -i
Extract from Syunkv Morning HikaliD of August 15,
1888, referring to the exhibits of the United States Court,
Centennial International Exhibition, Melbourne, says:—
“A little more to the westward the visitor finds a plat-
form on which are placed a number of Hammoquette
Reclining Chairs, one of the latest things from that in-
genious class of Americans who devote their lives to the
invention of objects which shall minister to the fastidious
tastes of the invalid, or meet the luxurious demands of
the Wealthy. The Hammoquette Chair, constructed mainly
of American ash, coloured to resemble mahogany, is shown
by K. B. Jones, 6 Bridge-street, Sydney, and can, and
will, be made to assume a great variety of shapes. It is
difficult to conceive a more valuable addition to a sick
room, library, study or verandah, than the Hammoquette
Chair must prove.”
Parliament House, Melbourne,
Mr. R. B. Jones, 12th June, 1888.
Dear Sir,—ln reply to your letter of Bth instant, I
have much pleasure in stating that the nine chairs I pur-
chased from you have given me every satisfaction.
Yours truly,
M. H. DAVIES, M.L.A.,
Speaker Legislative Assembly.
a Rb
ii
' ■
?'•
-
■
For COMFORT, CONVENIENCE and DURABILITY is the DESIDERATUM.
f
It afford* the greatest possible amount of comfort for the occupant by the perfect flexible support that it
affords the whole body. The ease with which the change of position can be effected ; the readiness with which
it adapts itself to the' form, and follows the movements of the occupant in the many changes of |K»sition, afford-
ing comfortable supjtort in anv position. By a alight effort any position, from an upright to a reclining position,
ran be obtained at will, ami no special mechanical device is required to hold the chair in the different positions
So Nicely Balanced are the Operating: Farts of this Chair
that the occupant is hardly conscious of making an effort in changing his position; the chair and occupant move
in concord as one piece of mechanism. This nicety of balance is regulated by two adjustable hangers, that support
the front of the seat, and can be instantly adjuster! to suit the centre of gravity to the sitter, thereby establishing
a perfectly balanced reciprocal relation between occupant and ehair, the chair automatically following the move-
ments of the occupant in the many changes of position, and affording a flexible and comfortable support for the
entire position. , ,
There is no Upholstering Whatever about this Chair,
which makes it espiiually luxuriant and desirable for summer use. A tidy or loose cover of any material can be
attached to the chair and removed at will ; but nothin# of the kind is needed for comfort, as the many who
have used the chair testify. The leg-rest is provided with a folding foot-board that can be used in a position to
upport tin’ feet, or folded down, allowing the limbs to lie extended as shown in out.
f
SOLD AT
ail the Leading Furniture Warehouses*
R, B. JONES. 6 Br.iUo Street Wholesale Import* r.
