

AITKEN’S
AL E. ‘DICKENS’ ” WHISKY.
LIFE BUOY BRAND.
THIS BEST 11ST THIS MARKET,
T T SP'T) BY THE LATE CHARCES DICKENS,
A,\l» Sl ITMKit TO THE I*KI\<TI*AI, tXUSS |\ BTH?
XSOIX
Attwood,
253. George-at, Sydney.
&ole Agents for* Mew South Wales,
ROBERTS’ HOTEL,
Street, SIZ'D^TE'ST.
UNRIVALLED ACCOMMODATION.
9
i( Bulli Pasß.” “ Look-Out.”
DISTANCE FROM SYDNEY, 42 MILES.
VK. DICKSON
M "WisliiaaLS Well.”
HOUSES AND ’VEHICLES ON HIKE.
“Loddon Waterfalls.
EVERY ACCOMMODATION.
Proprietor.
NEW YORK LIFE INSURANCE CO
LIFE ASSURANCE ONLY. PURELY
STATEMENT FOR YEAR ENDING 31»t DECEMBER, 1889.
Income for year ending 1889 ...
Amount New Business during 1889 ... ... ...
Accumulated Funds 31st December, 1889...
Surplus by the New York State Standard
Total Amount Paid to Living Members during last 45 years, in Endowments,
Dividends, Ac. ... ... ...
Paid to Representatives of Deceased Members ...
Amount of Interest received on Investments
MUTUAL.
Incontestable Non-Forfeiting Free Tontine Policies
Secures VALUABLE INVESTMENT FEATURES, in combination, with INSURANCE at LOW COST. Guaranteed
options at the end of Tontine period.
The POLICIES, as now issued, are notably free from restrictions as to Occupation, Residence and Travel • are
incontestable after Two Years, except in case of fraud.
CLAIMS are payable in the colonies at the nearest Branch Office, in sterling, and ail Disputed Claims (in case any
should arise) in Australia are to be decided by Australian Courts, v - y
Chief Offices, Department of Australasia: ... BOND STREET CHAMBERS, SYDNEY.
JOSZAH G’OXiex’al IMEanager.
advt
Grand Novelty! Grand Novelty!
FOR, MARKING
LINEN. PAPER, ENVELOPES, Ate.
Special
,^’ stem > , ul01 ’ e perfect than the Rubber. New
Invention. Prizes from the New Orleans (U.S.) and
Melbourne Exhibitions. Prices. -Medium Monograms
pi b0 rf' l «’ 0f ln i lelible Ink for marking Linen’,
Papei, Collars, Luffs, and Handkerchiefs, Price 4/- in
Sydney, 4/6 in New South Wales, 5/- in other Colonies.
L. Shrager, 19 Macquarie-Place, Op. Exchange.
J.
&
Howard’s rolouist 2-I’iirrow IMgging
rioilgli.—(K.Z.O.l/)
Howard’s Single-Furrow Digging
riongli.—(O.L.)
Tixe Piougrli of the Times!
PLOUGHING AND HARROWING IN ONE ACT.
Share Points only cost 6d., and are Reversible.
OHAJbi'-Ob'ii'tK-. Horsje Gears and every kind of Agricultural Implements
IltsT STOCK.
? iW* Enquirers please quote tbls paper.
280 J PITT STREET, SYDNEY
(Corner of Pitt and Bathurst Streets).
■THE —
LONDON & SYDNEY TEA COMPANY.
■4OB
Gilt Street,
SYDNEY.
HIGH-CLASS TEAS,
Packed in 201 b. and 401 b. Packages,
At Is. 6d., Is. 9d. and 2s. per LI).
k
M
'vih,S
HLI
\
V*
New Oils:
xlity;
omcfs please enclose (ieinittjinbe Of
Reference,
/* Single Package at Wholesale Price,
i3T OUR BLENDER AT WORK ON INDIA AND CHINA*
The Bulletin
YoJ. ll—JNo. 541,]
[Saturday, June 28, 189tL


TOBACCO
m
*,v-
I
mm
mm.
•JSi
HOP!
’ll
’‘‘■tiki
S<3!SSS
DRSON4SO
Customs Returns.
American Leaf.
Dixson and Sons consumed in 1888, 52,593ib5.
more, and in 1889 (over 41 tons) 98,939 lbs. more
American Leaf than all the rest of New South
Wales put together.
HIXSON'S TOBACCOS having the largest
sale of any in Australia are
a
o
so
☆
o
SIR ROGER
Dr. RIDGE’S
FOOD
FOE INFANTS AND INVALIDS
Has an enormous sale in England
and is now being introduced into the
Colonies.
Every Storekeeper should get a supply
as every Wise mother will certainly
use it.
DR. RIDGE’S ROYAL FOOD MILLS,
LONDON, ENGLAND.
*?£
ggctp lim&m
AUCTIONEERS* ESTATE ACEHTS
r
•s
AYL E E & CO.,
General Auctioneers and Estate Agents,
Collins Street, Melbourne, and 14 Chapct
Street, South Yarra.
ATKINSON'S
ENGLISH PERFUMERY
surpasses all others for its natural
fragrance.
Atkinson’s Celebrated
EAU DE COLOGNE
Is Unequalled for its Strength and
Delightful Fragrance. It far sur-
passes the numerous compounds sold
under the same name.
Of all Dealers and of the Manufacturers —
J. & E. ATKINSON,
24, OLO BOND STREET, LONDON.
w Trade Mark—“ White Rose” on “Golden A
lyre,’ ’ with Address in full.
GOLDEN S II A X T V
PRICE : ONE SHILLING.
Insure Your Health Against All Risks
—m TAKING—
Kruse's Fluid Magnesia,
It Cools the Blood, Promotes a Healthy Flow of the Secretions
and Fortifier, the System against the Shafts of Disease.
The Best Aperient Per Children. Numerous Gold Medals.
BUPEimOR to SLll OTHERS!
(Vide Medical Testimonials, Analysis, &c., accompanying each Bottle.)
x X
TAKE ONLY KRUSE’S
Bold in Bottles at Is. 3d., 2s. 6d., 3s. 6d. Each.
Wholesale Agents: Messrs. ELLIOTT Bros., Ltd
CLARENDON H( )TEL, MANLY,
The Brighton of New South Wales.
AT the CLARENDON HOTEL, Banquets, Suppers, Private Dinners, Evening Parties, etc., are
served on the Shortest Notice in the Large Dining Hall. Besides having a most recherche
Dinner, you can enjoy from the balconies the magnificent view of the sea and surrounding country;
here also you can have good company, good wines—in fact, everything that can possibly make one
comfortable can be found at this really first-class hotel. Pishing and Picnic Parties provided. Tabic
de Hote at One o’clock daily and Sundays. No expense is spared by Mrs. Kilminsteb to make her
i isitors comfortable and her Hotel the best in the colony.
Mrs. KILMIKTSTEH., Clarendon Hotel,
Opposite OCEAN BEACH, MANLY.
JhJDWIN g. goertz,
Stock and Share Broker,
FIUA2STCIAL
BRISBANE.
Member of the Brisbane Stock Exchange.
THOMAS M'CREERY:
MEDICAL HERBALIST,
13 Oxford Street, i doors above Riley Street.
Private Diseases of Both Sexes a Speciality.
Consultations Gratis. Charges very Moderate.
A Trial Solicited.
A SPEEDY CURE GUARANTEED.
£JTSTORY OF BOTANY BAY.
PRICE : ONE SHILLING.
68 Hunter Street, and 8 Bligh Street,
SYDNEY.
IF 1 . SHEOEDEE
LIVERY, BAIT, LET-OUT AND COMMIS
sion Stables.
Horses and Vehicles of every description for
Sale or Hire; also, good reliable Ladies or
men’s Hacks,
THE BALLARAT COFFEE PALACE,
Lydiard Street, Ballarat.
VISITORS to the Golden City will find every
convenience at the above Establishment.
The Only Coffee Palace in Ballarat.
MODERATE CHARGES.
REID & SONS
A
Proprietors.
GOLDEN SHANTY.
PRICE : ONE SHILLING.
“ The Male Generative Function in Health and Disease,”
—BY—
ALSXH. PATEHSOKT, M.A.., M.D.,
F.H.C.S., Ed. ; .M.R.C.S., Exo.
PRICE ... TWO SHILLINGS and SIXPENCE.
)(
OPINIONS OF THE press:
“ Valuable medical work—the Doctor is a quali-
fied man and speaks with authority. "--Town and
COUNTRY dOEKNAI..
“Can recommend it as a work written by a
gentleman - who has attained a very high status in
his profession.”— Manning River Times.
“It sets forth scientific truths which, in the in-
terests of individuals and society, should bo more
generally disseminated. Bathurst Free Press.
“Society would be all the better if people only
gate a little of their reading time to such valuable
medical works as Dr. Paterson has in this instance
given to them.” — Merger Independent.
“ The author not only fully understands the
perils which beset youth and manhood, but began
point out the remedies.”— Oobar and Louth
Herald.
“ Dr. Paterson, M.A., M. 1)., F.R.OiS.E,, is a
high authority on the matters he deals with."—
COONAMBLE In DEPENDENT.
“The work is well written, and far away the
best we have read on the subject. Wilcannia
Times.
“ The subject is treated in a manner which
shows the author thoroughly understands it.”—
Fielding Star, X.Z.
“ The book cannot be too widely circulated, and
should lie in the hands of every person, mate or
female.’ - — Povertv Bav Independent, X.Z.
“ Totally different from anything else of the
kind which has come under our notice.”— Brijor
Herald, X.Z
“It is a work which every young man should
read and lay to heart.”—Border Post.
157 Elizabeth Street, Hyde Park, SYDNEY.
)x{
CONSULTATION BY LETTER, JEI.
LEA & PERRINS'
■ SAUCE,*
Purchasers should see that the Label on every bottle of the original
WORCESTERSHIRE SAUCE
bears the Signature, thus :
Ask for Lea & Perrins’ Sauce, and see Name on Wrapper, Label, Bottle and Stopper.
Wholesale and for Jirnort bu the Proprietors, Wormier; Crosse $• Blackwell, London, sc., se.}
and by Grocers and Oilmen throughout the World.
Everyone should Read
‘ HISTORY of BOTANY BAY,
By ARTHUR GAYLL.
Profusely Illustrated by “ The Bulletin’s" well-known Artists, L. Hopkins and Phil May.
- ONE SHILLING; per Post, Is. 3d
Price
May bo had from Agents, or direct from “ The Bulletin r ’ Office.
Agents —Victorian: A. Benjamin, 321 Little Collins Street East, Melbourne; Tasmanian j. Fitzgerald Brothers, George Street,
- • Launceston'; Queensland: J. H. Thompson, George Street, Brisbane.


Medical.
A S'K iv'S PILLS are unsurpassed as a
remedy for constipation, biliousness, sick-head-
ache, dyspepsia, jaundice, and the common
derangements of stomach, liver, and bov. els.
They break up colds,. mitigate fevers, relieve
gout, rheumatism, and neuralgia, cleanse the
system of malarial poison, and assist in the
formation of pure, rich blood. These -well-
known pills are compounded of the essential
virtues of the best vegetable cathartics, and
contain neither calomel nor any other deleteri-
ous drug. They may, therefore, he adminis-
tered in all cases where a purgative is needed,
without fear of ill effects. Being sugar-coated,
they are pleasant to take, and their medicinal
strength is preserved for an indefinite period
and in any climate. They should ho in every
domestic medicine chest and traveller’s satchel.
Ayer’s Pills,
PREPARED BY
Dr. J. C. AYER & CO., Lowell, Mass., U. S. A.
Sold by Druggists and Medicine Vendors.
f
WHO IS
WEAK
ƒ
Nervous & Debilitated
Who in his youth has trifled away his vigour of body,
mind, and manhood, should consult PROFESSOR
CARL Si'INE WA\, the Eminent Specialist,
in diseases of the Genito-Urinary Organs, who is
still treating with the greatest skill and success all
Private, Nervous and Chronic Diseases.
Professor STINEWAY’S success, which has
become so firmly established throughout Australasia,
is based upon the facts ist. That every case treated,
even in its most remote effects, is specially studied,
thus starting aright. 2nd. The Medicines used are
exactly adapted to suit the case, and are compounded
from the purest, freshest, and refined ingredients,
thus promptly producing results without overdosing
ar injury’.
I seek cases where all else has failed.
Young and middle-aged men and others, who
suffer from Nervous and Physical Debility,
Exhausted Vitality, Premature Decline, etc.,
can recover the same degree of health, strength,
and energy experienced in former years, by
consulting (in person or by letter, -which ,is
free), Professor STINEWAV, -who has re-
stored thousands of sufferers to vigorous man-
hood after all other treatment had failed. It
makes no difference -what you have taken, or
who has failed to cure you. Cases that I accept
for treatment are quickly and permanently
cured.
DO ANY OF THE FOLLOWING SYMPTOMS.
OR CLASS OF SYMPTOMS MEET YOUR
DISEASED CONDITION Arc you a sufferer
Irora bad health in any of its many forms, consequent
on a lingering Nervous, Chronic, or Functional
Disease ? Do you feel nervous, debilitated, fretful,
timid, and lack the power of will and action ?
Are you subject to loss of memory ; have spells of
fainting; fullness of blood in the head; feel listless,
moping, unfit for business or pleasure, and subject to
fits of melancholy ? Are your kidneys, stomach,
urinary organs, liver, or blood in a disordered con-
dition ? Do you suffer from Rheumatism, Neuralgia,
or other aches and pains ? Are you timid, nervous,
and forgetful with your mind continually dwelling on
the subject? Have you lost confidence in yourself,
and energy for business pursuits ? Are you subject
to restless nights, broken sleep, dreams, palpitation
of the heart, bashfulness, confusion of ideas, aversion
to society, dizziness in the head, dimness of sight,
pimples on the face and back, and other desponding
symptoms ? If you are afflicted, why further neglect
your health or future happiness, when by a single con-
sultation (which costs nothing) you can be placed on
the way to health, strength, and vigour ?
ill correspondence held sacred. A speedy
and perfect life cure is guaranteed in all cases
I undertake, where doubt exists the sufferer is
frankly informed.
Persons living at a distance who desire
treatment without delay can, by forwarding a
full description of their case and receive
by return of post the medicines required.
Do not despair, even though all others have
failed in your case. No matter what your
complaint may be, call or write—l will cure
you. If you are ill, do ?iot delay !My vast
experience enables me to guarantee a positive
cure in all cases undertaken. CONSUL-
TATIONS FREE. Medicines sent secure
from observation to any part of Australasia.
“ From Bondage to Freedom,” my
latest work on Private, Nervous and
Chronic Diseases, should be read by
every man; nearly one hundred
pages. By post, two stamps.
A written guarantee given in all
eases undertaken, and no promises
made that age, integrity, and long
experience do not justify.
Send for treatise “From Bondage
to Freedom.”
Address: Professor CARL STIHEW4T,
23 Elizabeth St., Sydney, N.S.V.
Offices and Parlors—Rooms 2,3, 4 & $•
Consulting Room —6.
Laboratory & Drug Warehouse —
Hunter Street.
SometMns ISTeW.
YOUR NAME neatly printed on Forty (40) Beautiful
Embossed VISITING CARDS, comprising Floral
Landscape, Sea View, Bird, & c. No two alike. ALL
FOR ONE SHILLING in Stamps, postage paid. Agents
wanted. Samples free. Address—
Austral Card and Novelty Co.,
14 Huntbr Stribt. SYDNEY.
Business Announcements.
r^
tj
Ci
ronTS!QH§S-®
u: *?--jy^
chanis- t.:
IRON
m
c-J
■
5®
■ i
ROBE R T S & 0 0.,
—W HOLESALE—
Ironmongers* Importers* Iron and Machinery Merchants*
HAY AND ENGINE STREETS SYDN E Y,
Head Office: 85 Graeecluircli Street, London, E.C.
IMPORTERS OF
Railway & Bridge Contractors'
Plumbers'
Squatters'
Requirements
IN
Great Variety.
r IMPORTERS OF
I Engineers’ and Blacksmiths’
1 Couohbuilders’
\ Mining
. . AGENTS FOR:
Koi*ting’s Gas Engines The best and cheapest yet made. Automatic self-governing, thus saving cost of gas.
Braddock s Water and Gas Meters and Gas Lamps. Reading Iron Works Universal (Split) Pulley Wheels.
Howe’s Platform and Counter Weighing Machines and Weighbridges.
f
-S'i
4**
ium«n™
•'i'liuim
*iniinim
jiimini#
6
uj CC
00
uJ
sr*
Uj
A
0>
J
V
Sfiiimi
ijii '
12
ve
C
TRIO HP H
ƒ
CLARENCE SI
SYDNEY.
r AGENTS
in New South Wales.
0F The Good .Spirit • over oad .
Used in hospitals throughout the world in preference to the
best French Brandy. TKY IT.
ONT
syffp
FROM
Neuralgia,
Nervousness,
Headaches,
Biliousness,
Wasting Disease, Debility, &o., &o.,
When yoti* can be Cured
BY USING
EARNER'S
CELEBRATED
TONIC
Price, fis. 6d and 5s.; Post, Is
Extra.
CAINS and Co., Chemists,
78 KING ST., SYDNEY.
in Sale by all Cheuiitit
nw.ao*
HUNGARIAN
NATURAL APERIENT WATER.
For Constipation, Indlgestloi
f
un
AU
OF ALL CHEMISTS IN AUSTRALASIA
The Natural Mineral Waters of
31V18)
DEED
SPRINGS.)
GRANDE-GRILLE.—For Affections of th«
Liver, Biliary Organs, &o>
CELESTINB.—For the Kidneys, Gravel, Goal
Rheumatism, Diabetes, Ac.
HOPITAL. —For Stomach Complaints.
HADTERIYB.—An excellent Table Watbs,
•r ALL CHEMISTS IN AUSTRALASIA.
Business Announcements.
MASON
BROTHERS,
LIMITED.
263 to 269 KENT STREET,
SYDNEY,
Have always in Stock for Sale to the
'lrade and Wholesale Buyers Only,
Ironmongery, and
ORNBRAL HARDWARE
Glass, thiua and
EARTHEN WAKE.
WINES, BEE Ilk <£• SPIRITS,
AND GENERAL
BULK MERCHANDISE.
Agents for
JOHN WALKER and SONS
Old Highland Whisky.
LUCIEN FOUCAULD & CO.’S
Old Brandies.
J. T. GAYEN’S,
Schnapps and Geneva.
A. MELVIN and SON S’
Edinburgh Pale Ale.
ƒ
SEND TO
HEMTRY KIKTa,
SCENIC and PORTRAIT PHOTOGRAPHER
316 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
FOR—
Catalogue of the most Complete Series of Views to
~ he obtained in Australia.
Jenolan Caves, Hawkesbury and Nepean Rivers,
Blue Mountains, Harbour and Coast Views,
Victorian and New Zealand Views.
Groups of Australian Aboriginals and South Sea
Island Natives, &c., &c.
S. H. SMITH & SON,
MANUFACTURERS & IMPORTERS OF
PflJFg PJO OPPg,
302 George Street, Sydney,
3 Doors South ot Hunter Street.
f
A Large Assort
aaent of English ana
French Goods, from
the best Makers to
choose from.
Every description
of HATS and OAFS
made to Order.
Medical.
'
m
y*
H
'CTu
TO YOUKTO MXmr.
DR. FLETCHER’S
TREATISE ON NERVOUS DISEASES, THEIR CAUSE.
SYMPTOMS, TREATMENT, AND CURE.
T'HB directions contained in this little treatise will be
found of immense benefit to the sufferer; and if these
directions are observed during the early stages of Nervous
or Sexual Debility, No Medicines will be required, as, by
observing the directions given, the patient can Cure Him-
self.
This admirable little treatise is specially written to
show a method of counteracting the evil effects of indis-
cretions in early life—overwork, irregularity in eating or
drinking, &c. It is the result of much study and long
and successful experience in the treatment of diseases,
and contains a fund of useful information to every suf-
ferer from_ the following complaints, viz.:— Nervous
Debility, Dizziness, Specks before the Eyes, Pains in the
Back, Defective Memory, Loss of Will Power, Loss of
Energy, Spermatorrhoea, Bashfulness, Discontentedness,
Constipation, Liver and Kidney Derangements, Atrophy,
Impotence, Impure Blood, Fpul Taste in Mouth, Palpita-
tion of Heart, Wakefulness, Despondency, Excessive Ner-
vousness, Inability to Marry, Premature Decay, and other
symptoms experienced by nervous sufferers.
All Should Send for this Little Treatise.
If the complaint is of long standing and requires
medicine, Dr. Fletcher will GUARANTEE TO CURE
ANY CASE OF NERVOUS or SEXUAL DEBILITY
with ONE COURSE OF MEDICINES LASTING FIVE
WEEKS, and will send with medicines A WRITTEN
GUARANTEE to cure same or return the monies paid.
Dr. Fletcher’s treatment is both simple and effective,
and within the reach of the poorest. It is unlike any
other, and with it he has cured over 25,000 patients, and
invites patients to investigate his statements by verifying
the testimonials published in his treatise. The treatise
will be forwarded on receipt of two stamps to covet
postage.
CONSULTATION BY LETTER, FREE.
Address in first instance—
DR. H. EWART FLETCHER,
Box 1417, G.P.Q.
, ~ , Sydney, N.S.W.
Private address—Clonmel House, Waverley, Sydney.
Remember, all cases undertaken, guaranteed, and a
signed agreement given, which provides that NO COST
be incurred by the patient if a cure is not effected.
VARICOCELE RADICALLY CURED WITHOUT
OPERATION.
Mention this Paper.
IN THE PRESS,
‘-A. GrOXiJDIEItsr SHAUTY,”
Bv “BULLETIN” WRITERS.


XjXTT-lEIEI^OCai,
JS
A pleasantly-situated Property, thoroughly cleared, close to Liverpool Station. Torrens’ Title. £1 deposit; 10s. per month.
JV. W. STEPHEN, 28 CASTLBBEAGH STREET, SIZEDEsnETST,
“ Golden Bliailty.” icF A Selection from the brightest of the original literary matter which has made The Bulletin world-famous. Price, Is. ; posted, 3d. extra.
The Australian Mercantile Loan and
Guarantee Co. (Limited).
Head Office;
Corner of Market ami York Streets, St W.VFX
Melbourne—2B3 Collins-strcet East.
Brisbane—Corner Edward and Elizabeth Streets.
Newcastle—27 Hunter-street.
Directorate:
I HANK -I, SMITH, Esq., M.L.A.. Managing Director.
.1. I'. HOWE, Esq., MX.A. U. .1. FINLAYSON, Esq.
K. M. BUCHANAN, Esq. .lAMBS MILLER, Esq.
The Company grant immediate advances upon
Deeds (>f Land, Bills of Lading, Merchandise,
Storage, and Bond Certificates, and all classes of
mercantile and other approved securities, for fixed
terms or repayable by instalments.
Interest Allowed on Deposits:
3 months ... 6 per cent.
« „ 7
12 „ 8 „
A. MILLER ... General Manager.
-THE-
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL
FIRE
Insurance Society.
Established ...
1872.
Bonuses
OF
20 pel* cent. Paid Annually
since 1873.
Head Office
-THE
Oldest Mutual Fire Office
in Australia.
▼
Claims promptly and liberally
settled, fifteen days’ grace
allowed for Renewal of Policies.
Lowest Current Rates charged.
Lion. George Thornton, M.L.C.,
Chairman,
Head Office;
Corner Pitt & King Streets,
SYDNEY.
Walter Church .... Manager.
THE
Australian Banking Company,
LIMITED.
PITT and MARKET STREETS, SYDNEY,
Incorporated under the Companies Act, 187 h.
Authorised Capital, £500,000, in 100,000 Shares of £5 each
Subscribed Capital, £75,000.
FRANCIS ABIGAIL, M.L.A.,
Chairman of the Board of Directors.
A Branch of the Bank has been opened at Goulburn
under the management of C. H. Atkinson, Esq. (lately
Branch Manager of the Bank of New South Wales) for the
transaction, of General Banking Business.
The Bank has paid its Shareholders a dividend of 10 per
cent, every half-year since its formation.
The Bank transacts all usual banking business m every
particular. ,
Special advantages granted to Commercial Clients.
Overdrafts granted against deposit of Deeds.
THE HIGHEST BATES OF INTEREST GIVEN FOR
FIXED DEPOSITS.
The Share Register is now open for the allotment of
Shares—New Issue.
By order of the Board Of Directors.
RODERICK M‘NAMABA, Manager.
Forms of application for Shares may be obtained at the
Bank.
f
AND
C 9
LIMITED
The Best and Cheapest House for Ranges, Cooking and Heating Stoves for either Gas, Wood or Coal.
COMMERCIAL
PROGRESS
\
-OF
S YDKTB "ST.
The Great Hardware House of Lassetters'
Isa very marked instance of the wonderful growth
of the commercial prosperity of New South Wales.
It was 40 years last Tuesday since Mr. Lassettcr
succeeded to this business, established 1820, which
was then carried on in small premises opposite the
markets; to-day it occupies warehouses extending
from George-street through to York-street, and on
through to Clarence-street, besides several acres of
ground occupied by Agricultural Implements,
Machinery, Bedding Manufactory, a Kerosene
Bond holding twenty thousand cases, and stables
for some fifty waggons, drays, and delivery carts.
This vast and constantly increasing business, with
its various workshops, gunsmiths, blacksmiths,
locksmiths, marble masons, &c., is conducted by a
little army of efficient and well-disciplined men,
and is, without doubt, the largest and best-con-
ducted hardware business in the world.
‘QUEEN” HEATING STOVE.
Height'; Width. Depth. Weight.
THE
Price.
Ko 220 ... 24inr 20in.\ Iftn. GBlb. 15/6
No. 221 ... ' 26in. 2;iin. 20in. 'Jllb. 50/-
Tho “ OUEEN ” is well suited for the Bedroom or Nursery. The upper doors
are sliding ones, and when open shows the full front of the fire. The fender of
the stov.e is made to fix up against the bars, as a damper and regulator ot the
combustion.
WRITE .FOR OUR NEW AND COMPLETE ILLUSTRATED KITCHEN;. CATALOGUE
THE “SAM WELLER”
COOKING STOVE.
m
m
i*
noflmn
m
- MS
i&A/t
THE “SAM WELLER” COOKING STOVE.
No. 131. 30 inch... £6 0 0
No. 132. 33 inch 7 10 0
No. 133. 48 inch (two ovens) 12 10 0
Send for our New Illustrated Range and Stove Catalogue just issued (post free)
Duplicate Parts for all repairs can always be had.
Laesetter’B i. Undoubtedly tto.e Beat end Cheepeat Herd were Honae In the World.
C ITY
MUTUAL FIRE INSURANCE
COMPANY, Limited.
Established 1877.
Capital
£500,000.
25
Head Office;
CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY.
\ Cash Bonus of 10 per cent, is paid (o Policyholders
on renewals every year. Insurances covering Loss by Fire,
Lightning or Gas Explosion at Lowest Rates.
The DIVIDEND of 8 P ER CENT, to 31st December,
1889 is now being paid, and the BONES ot 10 PER
CENT, to Policyholders will, as usual, be paid on re-
newal of their policies.
Money to Lend on Approved Security.
N.B. —The Bonus paid is equal to that paid by any
Fire Company in Sydney.
ROBERT KERR, Manager.
Arbor Vitae,
The Great Life Remedy & Tonic Inviyorator,
IS the Best and Only Medicine which shows a
good result from the moment you tcikc the
first dose. It acts on the blood like a charm, and
tones the internal secretions to healthy action,
restores strength to the stomach, and enables it to
perform its functions ; and for regulating the liver
and kidneys it has no equal. Price—4s, per
package. Also the Great Cure for Catarrh and
Influenza—the Arbor Vitse Oil, 2s. fid per
bottle. Sold by all Storekeepers and Druggists.
■ Sole Agents for New South Wales—
Dan Sutfeerland. & Co.
Wholesale and Retail Tobacconists,
84 King Street. Newtown, SYDNEY.
PRINCE OF WALES’ HOTEL,
St. Kilda, Victoria.
Within Five Minutes from STATION, and One Minute from ESPLANADE and BATHS.
MRS. KONG MEXG ... ... ••• Proprietress.
is.
BUGGIES, CARRIAGES,
WAGGONS,
HARNESS, etc.
Machinery of all kinds.
WILLIAM FLEMING,
22 & 24 Clarence Street,
SYDNEY;
and at 2 St. James’ Buildings,
MELBOURNE.
READ THIS
Western Australia is a much richer colony than is
generally supposed as regards minerals, agriculture and
pastoralism.—Sir Samuel Griffith.
Professor Brown, of Victoria, who made a thorough
examination of the south-western portion of Western
Australia, states that hot the other colonies only, but
even the people of Western Australia evidently do not
know how much there is waiting for development. He
saw thousands of acres in contiguous blocks of fine choco-
late lands; light clay loams, and peaty soils. He thinks
the important features of the district are its grand climate
and regular rainfall.
“ History repeats itself,” and as surely as Sydney and
Melbourne have made lightning-like progress, so will
PERTH,'
the Capital of West Australia.
TEN POUND BUILDING SITES
at PERTH, WESTERN AUSTRALIA.
Large Allotments, Splendid Position, Good Land.
Only £1 deposit, easy terms ; discount for cash. Buyers
of five lots receive a free deed. Title (Torrens’s) guaran-
teed to be indisputable.
Also, CITY LOTS, from £33 each,
on similarly easy terms.
Marked plans and pamphlets posted to any address
application to
THE INTERCOLONIAL INVESTMENT
COMPANY, Limited,
96 Bathurst-street, Sydney,
W. J. DOUGLAS, Manager.
& COUNTY
Investment, Lanti and Building
Company, Limited.
Authorised Capital, £lOO,OOO ... Reserves and Uncalled Capital, £87,000.
Ratrs for Dri’ositb: 12 months, 7 per cent.; 6 months, 0} per cent.; at call, 5 per cent.
Bonus to 12 months’ Depositors.
Directors: J. <: sheard, M.P., Hon. J. II Voiino, M.P., J. P. Walkm, J.P., John C. Hamilton.
J. U. Ward, Manager, 387 Pitt-street, Sydney.
BANK.
327 PITT STREET, 3YDTTEY.


The Bulletin
Vol. 11- No. 541.
SATURDAY, JUNE 28, 1890.
Price, 6d.
CAST ADRIFT WITH THEIR MESS OF POTTAGE.
“A public meeting, to consider the conduct of Messrs. J. P. Garvan and J. P. Abbott in accepting from Sir Henry Parkes the appointment of Convention delegates without consulting the
Protection leader, Mr. G. R. Dibbs, or the Protection Opposition in Parliament, was held in the Temperance-hall last flight. Mr. G. Hawkins moved-'That owing to the treacherous conduct of
Messrs. J. P. Abbott and J. P. Garvan, M’s.P., in accepting State offices from a Freetrade Government have forfeited the confidence of all consistent and honest Protectionists, and this
meeting pledges itself to nominate candidates and oppose both gentlemen whenever they offer themselves for reflection.' Mr. R. F. Norman seconded the motion, which was carried."-Daily Paper.


The Bulletin
The national Australian Newspaper.
“ Australia for the Australians.’’*
Proprietors ; BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO,,
Limited.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 21 Pitt-street, Sydney, New South W ai.es.
terms to subscribers
(payable in advance, only).
Per Annum
Half-yearly - 012 6
Quarterly j,
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to he addressed to William Macleod, Managing Director.
Literary Communications to he addressed to J. F.
AncnißALii.
The Editor will carefully read and acknowledge in the
“ Correspondence” column all contributions submitted
whether in the form of Political, Social, or other Articles,
Verse, Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing until Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in
1.-ngth, or say 0000 words, arc specially acceptable).
Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper-Clippings. All
communications will be regarded as strictly confidential.
“ The Bulletin” will return all unavailable MSS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we
desire those sending MSS. to distinctly undetstand that
ve are not responsible for the preservation or transmission
of such MSS.
NOTICE.
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty Shillings
sterling—which you may pay by Post Office Order, One
Pound Note, or Stamps of any Australian colony—you
can have The Bulletin posted regularly to you every week
for a year.
This offer is not open to residents of Sydney. In that
city The Bulletin is not delivered by mail, but is entirely
in the hands of our earners, with whom we do not wish
to interfere.
Tjfce&i 'ille&Ti.
SATURDAY. JUNE 28, 1890.
Loan Money and Landowners.
The kind of log-rolling which was in times
past customary when the voting of moneys
for public works was on the tapis —has been
in full activity in the New South Wales
Legislative Assembly during the past two
wrecks. It had been, by some sanguine
persons, conjectured that the creation of the
Public Works Committee would put an end
to corrupt manoeuvres. To this Committee
all such w'orks as were considered advisable,
and the construction of which would involve
the expenditure of a sum exceeding £‘20,000
sterling were to bo referred by the Covern-
ment. When the Committee had decided
that any particular work was one which it
was desirable to proceed with, it became a
legal obligation upon the Minister for Works
to submit to the Legislative Assembly a
resolution affirming the propriety of bringing
in a Bill to authorise the work in question.
So far as getting rid of log-rolling, however,
these provisions have proved utterly value-
less. They have rather intensified than
diminished the evil, which repeats itself at
recurrent stages. Members of Parliament
who represent constituencies interested in
securing particular works now commence
operations, as they did before the Public
Works Committee was created, by insinu-
ating themselves into the good graces of the
Ministry of the day, or by assuming a
minatory attitude, as seemed best calcu-
lated to serve their purpose, with the
view of having the undertaking they were
concerned about referred to the Com-
mittee. When this is accomplished, fresh
exertions and intrigues commence. One
member or more of the Committee may bo
politically interested in securing the approval
of the whole body for a work. If so, the
intrigue goes on internally. Otherwise,
efforts arc made to secure committee-men as
advocates in their deliberations. W hen a
particular work has been recommended by
the Committee, tin; plot thickens. The scene
is now shifted to the Legislative Assembly
itself, and the old log-rolling process com-
mences in as full vivacity as it used to do
when the recommendation of loan expendi-
tures rested wit h Ministers themselves.
# . # *
In a general way this is what is now occur-
ring. Every member, whose constituency is
anxious that some works may be endorsed by
the Public Works Committee, supports every
item on the list, in the apprehension that
hostility on his part to,the expenditure upon
any other item or items may expose him to
reprisals from the members concerned in
those which he has opposed. The present
Minister for Works, Mr. Bruce Smith, and
his colleagues, have established an exceed-
ingly bad precedent in t his connection. Upon
the Minister for Works is imposed by the
law an obligation to introduce a resolution
affirming the desirableness of carrying out
each work recommended by the Public Works
Committee. But beyond that point he is a
free agent, and preserves liberty to express
las own opinion with respect to the particular
enterprise, and to vote for or against
it, as may seem to him to be desirable
in the general interests of the colony.
Mr. Bruce Smith has, however, not chosen
to avail himself of this freedom of
choice to distinguish works which have
been shown emphatically to have been re-
garded by the Works Committee to be justi-
fiable. In every instance, so far, he has
brought into play the full influence of the
Government in favour of every favourable
recommendation made by the Committee. In
at least two cases these recommendations
have been of an exceedingly touch-and-go
sort. The proposal to construct a railway
from Marrickville to Burwood-road, and that
to make a break-water at Byron Bay have
alike been recommended formally by the
Public Works Committee. But in each in-
stance the recommendation has been by a
mere majority of one vote. In the latter
case, the decision was arrived at on the
casting vote of the Chairman. Neverthe-
less the Minister has none the less brought
the full influence of his position into action
to secure the passing of the resolutions in
favour of both of those schemes, despite the
strenuous and reasonable resistance offered
by independent members in the Assembly.
* * *
The instances of those independent mem-
bers have been overborne by the usual
combinations. Members concerned in the
approval of any work have combined to
secure the adoption of all. Little considera-
tion has been vouchsafed to the general in-
terests of the unlanded among the tax-
payers who will be required to bear the
weighty burden of taxation for interest
on borrowed moneys which works of
an unremunerative nature will impose
upon their already overladen backs. It
is noteworthy in this connection that every
one of the principal constructions re-
commended by the Public Works Committee
will admittedly involve at the outset a con-
siderable annual loss to the country, and
that a considerable number are of a character
which precludes the possibility of their ever
repaying even the interest on the amounts
expended on them. Of the former class the
railways approved are most prominent. No
attempt is made even to state approximately
what may be the annual burden imposed
upon the taxpayers by the construction with
borrowed money of the line from Nyngan to
Cobar, nor how long that drain upon the
revenue may have to be endured. It is
simply made apparent that instead of paying
interest upon cost, that amount, and a large
deficiency of receipts as compared with ex-
penses of maintenance and working, will
have to be annually made good. With re-
spect to the four and a half miles of single-
line railway from Marrickville to Burwood-
road, the initial loss per annum on the out-
lay of over £90,000 is estimated by the Rail-
way Commissioners, who denounce the single-
line scheme, at £19,000 per annum. The
projected line from Lismore to the Tweed,
like that from Nyngan to Cobar, recommends
itself by a foreseen but undefined annual
loss for an indefinite period. The Kiama
to Nowra line is to be a charge like-
wise, but probably not for so protracted
a term as some already mentioned. Coota-
mundra to Temora forms no exception.
With respect to the second class of works,
the expenditures of £212,000 and of £326,000
on the mouths of the Clarence and Richmond
rivers respectively promise no direct returns
whatever. The same is true respecting the
£713,000 for the drainage of the western
suburbs of Sydney ; while, as to the break-
water at Byron Bay, the case is intrinsically
hopeless within a generation, even if the
work be a success, which, according to half
the members of the Public Works Committee
and some of the most disinterested members
of the Legislative Assembly is quite a matter
of speculation.
• * *
The foregoing particulars will serve to
show in what fashion the custodians of the
public purse discharge their responsible
functions. It is not, of course, to be
imagined that, although immediate or direct
returns are not to be forthwith expected
from any of the constructions mentioned,
they must all be unserviceable or without
ultimate value. The colony of New South
Wales is a splendid estate in a very unde-
veloped condition, and undoubtedly will be
enhanced in value, accessibility, and produc-
tiveness by judicious expenditures. Even
injudicious expenditures may not be all
wasted. But assuredly no private proprietor
in full possession of average faculties would
fling about borrowed funds in the reckless and
inconsiderate fashion which is being adopted
by the Works Committee, the Ministry and the
legislators of Now South Wales. Every
scheme would be weighed and considered,
not alone in reference to its own merits and
the prospects of its yielding a speedy profit,
but in its relation to all other possible
methods of investing the moneys available.
There is, besides, this very sharp distinction
between outlays of borrowed moneys made
by a private proprietor and those undertaken
by the Government of a colony such as New
South Wales. The former, while responsible
for all the funds borrowed and expended,
reaps the entire benefit of the work accom-
plished. The latter has all the responsi-
bility and all the risk, but only a small and
scareely-appreciable fraction of the beneficial
results, if any. That is to say, the entire
population of the colony is required to pay
the interest upon its borrowings all the time
that the investments of the funds so pro-
cured remain unremunerative, while a con-
siderable, if not the larger, proportion of the
profits, when any are realised, are mono-
polised by that class among the population
which is possessed of real estate susceptible
of enhancement in value by improved means
of access and other advantages due to ex-
penditure of the general resources,
# * *
This is the aspect of the whole matter
most especially deserving of attention. There-
fore, it has come about that N.S. Wales as a
whole is so little easier in its financial cir-
cumstances than it was years ago, despite
the investment of huge sums of money upon
improvements alleged to be requisite for the
development of its resources. Take, as an
illustration, the case of a man who rents a
dwelling or a paddock near the Burwood-
road terminus of the proposed railway from
Marrickville. When the £90,000 which that
line is to cost shall have been spent, the
railway completed, and the estimated loss of
£19,000 a year becomes a charge upon the
revenue, the position of such a tenant will
be much altered : he will have to make good
to the State his proportion of the £19,000
per annum, and Iris rent will he raised.
Consider, on the other hand, the effect upon
his landlord, the proprietor of the house or
paddock which he rents. He too will have to
hear his share, with the rest of the people of
New South Wales, of the £19,000 loss. But
as an agreeable set-off, he will be enabled to
gather in an increased rent for his house, or,
if it be a paddock he owns, its value will be
enhanced prodigiously. The same double
process will operate wherever a really ad-
vantageous public work is carried out. The
non-propertied class will find their bui'dens
increased; the propertied class'will have
their estates augmented in value. This,
then, is one of the processes by which the
rich are made richer while the poor are made
poorer.
# * *
But, it will be objected, in some instances
that the community still owns a large propor-
tion of the acreage whose value will be en-
hanced by the carrying out of well-devised
public works. Is it not true that by this
increment in the value of what is common
property the poor man will benefit as well as
the rich % This plea deserves attention. An
augmentation in the value of public lands
affected by the expenditure of borrowed or
other moneys, can only be effectual w r heu
realised. That is to say, more must be ob-
tained for such lands when subsequently
leased or, as is the rule with us, sold. Take
the actual effect as practised. Lands to
which exceptional value is given by facility
of access or other benefits derived from
public works are now proclaimed as special
.areas. In past times, lands in general in
New South Wales were parted with to
selectors at a uniform price of one
pound per acre. Say, that owing to their
being penetrated by a railway or supplied
with a post, they are hereafter sold at an
average of three pounds per acre. The com-
munity at large will be benefited by the
increased receipts and the landless man w r ill
he relieved of a corresponding share of taxa-
tion. But, on the other hand, if he determine
to extricate himself from the ruck and acquire
land for himself, he will have to pay the in-
creased rate for any land he may select,
whereas the man in the same neighbourhood
who held land before will have had its value
added to without paying anything. Still the
community, as a whole, will have profited
directly to the extent of the increased price
paid by subsequent purchasers of public
lands. But, on the other hand, even the
State will have to submit to a serious
set-off against this advantage. The selector
will have just so much less money to devote
to the reclamation of the tract of hush he
will have acquired. His progress will conse-
quently have been hampered to a degree
equivalent to the amount extorted from his
limited resources. It is still he who pays
for the public works, while it has still been
the propertied class which has been enriched
thereby. There is but one remedy possible
for this anomalous condition of affairs, and
that remedy we propose to discuss at length
at an early date.
Shiels on Illegitimacy.
Mu. Shiels, who, thanks to his Divorce Bill, is
probably the best-cursed man in the Victorian
Assembly, has drafted another measure to outrage
the tenderest feelings of a respectable
Its principal objects are, first, to provide that
children born out of wedlock may be made legiti.
mate by the after marriage of their parents, so
that the wrong done to the new generation by the
sins of the old may not be absolutely irreparable;
and, second, that the illegitimate son or daughter
may have the same claim on the father’s inherit-
ance as the child born in the odour of respecta-
bility and moral rectitude. Mr. Shiels, by virtue
of the insurrectionary scheme which has already
made his name famous, has long been recognised
in clerical circles as a person of low instincts and
depraved tastes, and already the -great moral
incubus of respectability is getting ready to come
down in a heap on his proposed innovation. The
little, round, oily man of God has issued his pro-
phetic blast against the unholy device which
threatens to undermine the foundations of morality,
and in the very paragraph which announced the
first outlines of the new measure appeared the
humble protest of the great gospel of snuffle and
hypocrisy. “It was feared,” said this solemn,
abject remonstrance, “that vice and immorality
would be encouraged by the very existence of a
means whereby tne wrong done could be after*
wards repaired,” and that the proposed law would
thereby remove one of the valuable safe-
guards of society.
# * *
Possibly this view of the subject may be cor-
rect, but even supposing that to be the case it
matters very little. “Society” is a vague, im-
personal thing—so vague and so impersonal that
society might be dead, and yet all its indi-
vidual members remain alive and in good health,
or it might be outraged and lose all its “ valuable
safeguards,” and yet its component parts be ap-
parently little the worse. Moreover, the only
valuable, moral safeguard of the kind alluded to
that society ever had arc t lost several thousand years
ago. The person who introduced heaven and the
man who invented repentance and denounced re-
generation wiped that safeguard out at once and
for ever. For in doing these things that old K<-
former laid down a method whereby a wrong once
effected was rendered capable of repair, if not
entirely at least in a great measure, and yet no
parson has over ventured to quote heaven as
being a menace to society or to describe re-
pentance and regeneration as direct incentives
to crime. The moral objection to Mr. Shiklf.'
proposals is based on the assumption that man
habitually goes forth and commits sin because lie
means to repent and make it square afterwards,
and if he couldn't repent he would leave the sin
alone, but as a general rule this argument is a failure.
Man takes to sin because it is an agreeable recreation,
and he repents, occasionally, because he has grown
old and battered and dried-up, and can’t enjoy sin
as he used to do. If there is anything at all in
the protest of outraged respectability, we can only
suggest that the religion this world wants is a
religion without any heaven in it and with a very
large amount of hell. Then man would do nothing
he ought not to do because he would be li ami ted
by the conviction that his first mean action would
bowl him out to all eternity. As it is, however,
we are practically asked to believe that the
human race habitually makes a beast of itself
because it knows that it can become regenerate
when it has grown too aged and feeble to find
iniquity refreshing any longer, and the proposition
appears to be too thin.
# * *
The logic of the Church in this matter is an.
inverted argument which stands habitually on its
head. Yet even the husky voice ot Terewth must
admit that the person who suffers most by immo-
rality is the only irresponsible individual in the
transaction. The son who comes into the world
“by accident” is understood to have a lasting
stigma on him because of someone else’s offence ;
he is an individual with no particular name and
no acknowledged father, and when his progenitor
dies in the odour of sanctityq and leaves behind
him a largo fortune as a monument of his industry
and respectability, his descendant, in the eye of
the law, is a non-existent being. If the law wants
to hang that unacknowledged and indefinite
addition to the population, or desires to put him
in gaol, or is anxious to fine him in the sum of
40s. and costs, or to collect taxes from him, it does
all or any of these things as readily as if he was
born of respectable parentage, but the privilege of
being hanged or subjected to the other annoyances
of the penal code is about the only concession
granted to him. Yet it is argued that the very
fact that there is no remedy for these sufferings
and disabilities serves as a check to immorality,
and the thick, corpulent voice of respectability
is raised to point out that, should the law
provide a remedy, immorality will start with re-
newed vigour, and the rent/' will go forth and sin
more than usual in order that he may repent and
put matters right afterwards. In other words, it
is claimed that man is restrained from doing evil
hy the knowledge that the chief sufferer thereby
will have no possible legal redress, and therefore
the best way to restrain man from violence is to
let him kick the other fellow with impunity.
When he knows he can] do it with impunity, he
won’t make the attempt, on account of the irrepar-
able wrong to the other fellow. Man is generally
built that way, we presume. The prospect of in-
evitable damage to himself will only make him
more vicious than before; but when he is safe
from injury and all the damage falls to the share
of some other person, a civilising influence sets in.
The American planter, it is well known, never
walloped his nigger; the fact that the nigger
couldn’t hit back made him treat that African in
the most gentlemanly manner. Nobody ever hit
anybody who was down and couldn’t get up again.
* * *
The real reason why Mr. Shikls’ scheme is
likely to meet with furious opposition is that it
will be a serious blow to respectability and “ pro-
putty.” The provision by which an unauthorised
son or daughter may bo legitimised by the subse-
quent marriage of the parents, after the manner
already in vogue in Scotland and in the greater’
part of Continental Europe, is an act of
justice which applies to all claries alike,
but then that section of humanity which
wants to do justice to anything or anybody
is so small that this item is comparatively unim-
portant. Moreover, even the desire to do justice
does not authorise any man, whether he be a New
South Wales politician or a less elevated and pos-
sibly more honourable individual, to marry from
six to fifteen wives at once, and consequently the
opportunities for putting things right are limited.
But the proposal to put the illegitimate descendant
on an equitable footing in the matter of property
is absolutely deadly. It may matter but little to
the deceased labourer whether some person, who
has only an obscure title to he alive at all, may
have a lien on the broken chair and the rheumatic
table with the foundered hind leg —ho is not
likely to claim these unprofitable assets in any
case; but if the estate of the defunct millionaire
is liable to be rushed by ten or fifteen descendants
whose very existence he was most anxious to
ignore, and if the same, unacknowledged congre-
gation have claims upon him during life equal
to those of his lawful and respectable de-
scendants, and have a legal status which
enables them to contest his will after his
death on the ground of “undue influence,”
then respectable immorality will become a
ruinous sin, and the _ consequent smash, both
in finances and reputation, will do more to dis-
courage vice than many thousands of sermons and
many bushels of pious texts. No doubt it will be,
urged that such a system will open the door to a
vast amount of error and imposture, and we wil-
lingly admit that it may do so. Many a pious
and respectable capitalist—many an honoured
pillar of the sanctuary, within gunshot of the
room where these words arc written, would pro-
bably find some considerable difficulty in sorting
out his own descendants, and if the descendants
find.a difficulty in sorting themselves out it is not
surprising. Some day, when Socialism is an
established fact, and there is no private property
to he clawed after by anybody’s posterity—legiti-
mate or otherwise—this difficulty will be removed,
but till then the world must simply strike the best
average it can among its own favourite sins.
• * *
The first principle of Democracy is that every
»an must be valued for what ho is, instead of


being estimated by what his father was or what
his mother ought to have been ; and Mr. Shiels’
Bill proposes as far as possible to uproot one of
the accidental distinctions which prevent each new
generation getting a fair start. As a rule neither
morals nor brains last out two consecutive genera-
tions, and the son of a strictly moral father is so
very seldom furnished with any morals of ids own
worth speaking about that it is absurd to accord
him any special temporal advantages because of
his progenitor. The world’s supply of wickedness
and stupidity is large and its supply of virtue
lamentably small. When a family produces one
scientist or philosopher, it generally happens that
five generations of plain, unobtrusive idiocy follow
after; and the offspring of virtuous parents is
often a person to be regarded with suspicion, the
chances being that the good qualities of his race
are used up for at least a century. On the other
hand there is a chance that the man of disreput-
able origin, his educational advantages being
erjual, may be the beginner of a family regenera-
tion, though in all probability ho will prove to he
nothing of the kind, as man falls at least twenty
times as often as he regenerates. The probable
value of the two men to the world at large is very
much the same, and they have an equal claim on
society irrespective of parentage or other ex-
traneous considerations.
# * »
The argument has been already put forward that
there is nothing in the proposed measure to
directly prevent immorality, and it would have
been surprising if there had been. The law, so
far as we remember, has never found out how to
prevent anything. It has merely devoted itself to
making the way of the transgressor more or less
hard, so as to damage his corns by concussion on
the strong paths of evil, but it has never dis-
covered how to arrange matters so that there will
be no transgressor at all. Mr. Shiels’ Bill cer-
tainly cannot put the hands back on the dial of
Time and undo the past, any more than hanging
an assassin can bring his victim tc life again ; it
only proposes to render a certain measure of jus-
tice to the outlawed descendant of the wealthy
seducer, and to furnish the latter person witli
reasonable cause to regret his misdeeds. In short,
it is merely intended that the man who owns a son
must treat him as such simply because he is his
son, and how the father came to possess the human
encumbrance is to be his own look-out. Hitherto
posterity has been practically held responsible for
its own existence, and punished for existing unlaw-
fully and without due sanction, and it never
seemed to occur to anybody that posterity
couldn’t help it. It can neither help its legitimacy
or its illegitimacy; it is equally irresponsible in
either case : and the law which refuses to recog-
nise this obvious fact is even more dense and
incapable than law generally is.
Judge Forbes and the Juvenile Burglar.
In his essay, in which the unpleasant consequences
arising from “ The Want of Money ” are pointed
out, Hazlitt mentions the possibility of your
being obliged to go_ out to a distant colony as a
Judge, and returning home with a liver com-
plaint. An essayist treating the same topic in
Australia, might include in the list of contin-
gencies that of your being obliged to take an
appointment as a Judge, and to talk trash on the
Bench all the days of your life. How are we
otherwise to account for the singular fact that so
many of our Judges are perpetually attracting
public attention by the outrageous nonsense they
are pleased to pour forth from the judgment seat ?
If it were uttered inadvertently, it might escape
notice as a mere judicial weakness ; but it always
seems to be spoken in the most deliberate manner,
and generally with an air of importance, as if
it were the result of much anxious deliberation.
Take, as a specimen, the remarks made by N.S. W.
Judge Forbes, the other day, in connection with
the sentences he had passed on a number of
juvenile offenders charged with burglar}'. Instead
of confining himself to his judicial "duty, the
learned Judge considered it necessary to improve
the occasion in the tone and spirit of a missionary
addressing an audience in New Guinea. .The
substance of his remarks was that as the boys who
had been brought before the Court had probably
been educated at the State schools, it would be
a very good thing if the schoolmasters had the
power to pick out those boys who showed “mis-
chievous propensities,” and send them on to a
Reformatory school somewhere in the country.
He did not hesitate to propose that the Go.em-
inent should establish such an institution, on the
same principle that they establish High Schools,
and that children with mischievous propensities
should be forcibly taken, if need be, from their
parents, with a view to their being shut up in them
until they could be released with safety to society.
* # *
Now, this subject of juvenile delinquency has
occupied the attention of social philosophers and
law-reformers as much as any other branch of
sociology during the last half century ; but in the
immense mass of theories, proposals and sugges-
tions that have found their way into print during
that time, it would not be possible to find any
theory, proposal or suggestion so utterly mis-
taken and so little justifiable as this of
Judge Forbes’. Mistaken, because the idea
that the juvenile burglars had all been edu-
cated in the Public Schools was founded on
nothing better than the fact that the burglaries
had been conducted on what he termed “scientific
principlesan idea which could not have entered
the head of any man who had read Oliver Twist,
even if he had never read anything else on the
same subject. Just imagine the line of reasoning
by which the learned Judge arrived at his conclu-
sion. What he says amounts to this —that the,
boy who knows how to crack a crib on “ scientific
principles” must be an educated boy ; that is, he
must have learned reading, ’nting, and ’rithmetic,
or else he would make a mess of the operation and
get caught in the act. Here we are seriously told
by a judge that education is only a short cut to
crime ; from which the necessary inference is that
the schools should be shut up at once, or else
society must run the risk of educating one genera-
tion after another of scientific burglars.
* * *
A Judge, sitting on the Bench, ought to feeitne
moral responsibility of his utterances, because, by
a pretty fiction of law, ho is credited with great
wisdom and discretion, and consequently people
are apt to feel shocked when they find that he has
neither one nor the other But what sense of
moral responsibility did Mr. Forbes show when
he proposed that boys who had never done any
criminal act should be treated like criminals, and
that the parents who might object to that treat-
ment of their children should be compelled to
submit to it ? Could anyone have ventured to ask
him in Court, at the close of his discourse, how
would he act if any son of his own should be
placed in that position, what reply could he have
made? He could only have expressed his indig-
nation at the idea of such outrage being offered to
him. No son of a Judge, he would have
said, could, by any combination of cir-
cumstances, lie brought down to the level of
a suspected criminal. The sons of Judges are
brought up respectably, carefully nurtured from
their infancy, educated at the best schools, and
when their education is finished they are placed
in training for some highly respectable profes-
sion—most probably that by which their fathers
have earned their bread and cheese. But lias not
Air. Forbes ever heard of any case in which even
the well-educated son of a Judge has gone astray
from the right path, disappointing all his father’s
cherished hopes, and associating with classes
whom he would not allow to touch the hem of his
respectable garment ? Such things are as com-
mon as the falling stars that blaze across the mid-
night sky, and set men wondering whence they
come and whither they have gone. Let Air.
Forbes reflect for one moment on that simple
fact, and let him then realise, if he can, what
the result would be if the society in which
he moves should some day have to endure
the shock of seeing the son of a Judge
torn from his father's home, and consigned
to one of those institutions ho has been kind
enough to sketch for ns. Wo have mentioned
“ Oliver Twist; ” let ns refer him to another
novel which he might read to advantage in his
leisure hours. In the “ Ordeal of Richard
Fevered,” George Meredith sketched with
peculiar power the career of the son and heir of a
wealthy baronet, carefully educated at home by
his father on what he considered scientific prin-
ciples, for the express purpose of keeping the boy
out of the reach of all contaminating influences.
This young gentleman deliberately concocted a
scheme for setting fire to a farmer’s hay-stacks,
because the owner had offended him; but he
escaped the punishment of his crime through his
wealthy father’s intervention. A poor man’s son
would have been prosecuted and sent to_ gaol;
but unless Judge Forbes proposes to utilise his
reformatory for poor men’s sons only, how would
lie deal with such cases as that described by
Aleredith ?
Watching the Crown.
Melbourne public opinion on the Premier Build-
ing Association scandal is slowly, but none the
less surely, working up to a head. Attempts to
allay the inflammation with cold press poultices
have proved futile, and the premonitory symptoms
of a nasty, angry gathering are perceptible upon
the body politic. Oddly enough the Argus has
been the first to speak out on this matter. In the
realm of the blind the one-eyed is king. The
Argus, despite the visionary claims of its title,
has one eye only, which solitary optic the “ leading
journal” has chosen to keep wide open and stead-
fastly fixed upon the Age these last few weeks.
Whether actuated by a high sense of duty, or
by a wholesome feeling of dislike for its rival,
matters not—the Argus took upon itself recently
to draw attention to the public complaint and the
treatment required. “It is hinted that the
defendants through their counsel are anxious to
prolong the case as long as possible, in the
hope that the prosecution may be abandoned, and
it is felt by the shareholders that in the interests
of justice the Government ought to take up the pro-
secution at once.” Not often is the Argus guilty
of such a popular paragraph. Therein ninety-
nine out of every hundred disinterested readers
saw their own sentiments bluntly expressed. A
careful perusal of the report of any one day’s pro-
ceedings in Melbourne Police Court suffices to
convince intelligent men that there is a barristerial
desire to wear the prosecution out with dodging
tactics. Each witness appearing for Colonel
Templeton is subjected to a monotonous reitera-
tion of cross-examining from a whole army of
lawyers whose ignorance of the subject in hand is
as evident as their intention to talk against time.
Certainly the mauling of the first witness was jus-
tified, but when recognised experts in valuation
had put their prices upon the notorious Premier
loan properties there could be no possible sense in
novices trying to make (or pretending they
were trying to make) these old stagers re-
pudiate their own figures. But while the
case for the prosecution is being thus de-
layed, worse remains behind. The defendants
have to call their witnesses, who may be examined
in turn by each of that great legion of time-killers.
Finally, Purves’ speech will be followed by eight
long drawn-out addresses from the other side.
Proceedings are already far enough advanced to
show that the prosecution is prima facie justi-
fiable. When Mr. Theodore Fink, in a violent
perspiration of alarm, called upon Magistrate
Panton to denounce the Argus suggestion, he
was curtly informed that the Bench cannot control
public opinion. A significant reply, indeed. Had
the defence been conducted in a businesslike
manner, Mr. Panton would have put in a word
to that effect. Unable to close his eyes to the
true state of affairs, he was unable to say that the
“ hints ” concerning the defence tactics were un-
called. for, so Mr. Fink retired with ~ a vague
suspicion, doubtless, that he had merely assisted to
stir up public opinion, instead of snuffing it out.
"jfc
Obviously the shareholders have good reason for
thinking that the “Crown” should relieve their
Liquidator of the fearful expense and anxiety of
this prosecution. The Premier Association busi-
ness was controlled (or should have been) by Act
of Parliament, and its mismanagement—fraudu-
lent or otherwise —has affected not only a number
of shareholders and depositors, but indirectly a
large proportion of the community. The State, in
fact, is deeply interested in the case now left at
the mercy of the legal representatives of wealth,
influence, and “position.” If the defendants, or
any of them, are guilty of the charges laid against
them, the more likely they are to exhaust
the prosecution, provided that prosecution
is left to the liquidator of the society,
whose funds they (the defendants or some of
them) have admittedly squandered. If they have
been guilty of criminal conduct then they stand
in the position of a man who swindles his victim
out of the means of bringing him to justice. The
Crown is morally bound to step in here. If the
Crown stands by and laughs in its sleeve while
Colonel Templeton is being intimidated by threats
of how he will be compelled to pay for the pre-
sent proceedings out of his own pocket—and that
threat has been made in court then the
Crown is a wrong ’un. A difficult entity to
deal with, is the Crown. The Crown in
Victoria is represented by the Ministry, two
ex-members of which are defendants in this
unsavoury case. The Chief Minister of the
Crown, moreover, has favoured one of those
defendants with a published expression of belief
in his innocence, said defendant being himself
part and parcel of the Crown when the letter was
written. Most of the brightest jewels of the
Crown in Victoria are, furthermore, interested in
discouraging too close an enquiry into land-
boom mysteries. Not to put too fine a point
upon it-a portion of the Crown would
give its left hand to see this Premier
Building Association prosecution squelched.
Under all these conflicting circumstances the
people of Victoria, especially Melbourne, are
watching the Crown with vast concern. If there
were a chance of the truth being got at within
reasonable time, everybody would prefer to leave
the prosecution in Templeton’s hands. He is
more trustworthy than the Crown in this delicate
affair. But as the Crown is the only individual
able to fight a swarm of sharks working in collu-
sion, then the Crown must be compelled to take
over the public duty of establishing the guilt or
innocence of these dissipators of other people’s
morey. The Crown must go straight too, when
it begins. It must have Purvrs, who is counsel
for Our Sovereign Lady. And if Purve.s is king
of the Australian Natives he might do worse than
“ hint ” to them “that in the interests of justice
the Government ought to take up the prosecution
at once.” There’s a chance for the Natives to
rush to the van of public opinion, and wade right
in against a bloated Land Boomocracy.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Balfour ism in the K.S.W. Post Office.
The Hon. Daniel O’Connor will please accept
our condolences. We have never felt so concerned
for him since Mr. Redmond cruelly blurted out
on the platform that in New South Wales public
men of Irish pretensions hadn’t the pluck to openly
support his mission in the face of the hurricane of
obloquy which the cause he advocated had to con-
front. It is really too cruel that it should so fall
out that the department over which he presides
with so much dignity should be the first in N.S.
Wales to be afflicted by the curse of Balfourisra.
We would advise Mr. O’Connor to lay aside just
for once that insinuating amiability which ordi-
narily characterises him, and which has occasioned
a diffused belief that he has at some period of his life
not merely kissed the Blarney-stone, but swallowed
it. This is no time for honeyed phrases or clas-
sical rhapsodies about Demosthenes or Willyum
Charles Wintworth. Let Daniel be terrible.
Let him emulate his national saint and be himself
an Australian Saint Patrick. Vermin of a snaky
kind have been creeping and crawling under his
very nose. Spies and detectives have been worm-
ing their way among the very letter-boxes and
remorselessly investigating the operations of the
Morse telegraphic instruments. Of course we do
not for one moment believe that so sturdy, so
steadfast, so devoted a Hibernian as Mr.
O’Connor would have countenanced so vile an
infliction had he been aware of its prevalence
within the precincts where he holds sway. What
we confidently expect from him is prompt and de-
termined vindication of the well-known principles
of the race of the O’Connors. There is nothing
the white man of this day detests, abhors,
and despises so much as Balpourism. It is too
much to endure that at the very moment when
the Irish Nationalist members of the House of
Commons are denouncing Balfour for having
them “ shadowed” by detectives, as author of a
base outrage, some inconsiderate individual with
the soul of a Sassenach should have been exposing
to identical affront those public officers whose dis-
tinguished fortune it is to belong to a department
which is presided over by so constant a Hibernian
as the Hon. Daniel O’Connor.
Decentralisation in New Zealand.
Sir Robert Stout, a talented politician who
doesn’t believe in the existence of a God, has
issued a war-cry for the establishment of local
self-government in New Zealand, and apparently
he is going to be strongly supported. His scheme
is to divide the country into 18 or 19 districts,
each with a local legislature somewhat on the
pattern of those in vogue in the United States,
while the Assembly at Wellington will become a
species of Federal Congress after the model of the
one at Washington. The only objection to the
plan seems to be that the country will almost cer-
tainly burst under the weight of so much govern-
ment. Local administration is good when there
is any place to put it, but when the whole country
only makes one reasonable sized locality there are
difficulties in the way. Decentralisation is an ex-
cellent policy when there is room for it, but if in
taking things away from the centre there is a
serious danger of them falling over the edge
they had better be left where they are. No
doubt if the idea was simply to create district
councils to look after roads and bridges and local
improvements generally it would be a decided
gain to the countiy, but Sir Robert Stout appar-
ently intends to establish 18 separate Parliaments,
and 18 responsible Ministries, and furnish each
district with a Speaker, and an Opposition, and
an Upper House, and a Lower House, and let
them set to work making 18 different kinds of law ;
and in a country which is governed too much
already the prospect is too expensive to contem-
plate. New Zealand had nine separate Parlia-
ments once, and they bi'oke down under the
weight of their own dignity, and died through
being too numerous to live. It is evident the
country can’t stand twice that number. It is no
earthly use having 18 Ministers of the Interior, for
there is only cue interior, and a very small one at
that, and the nation has nothing to gain by having
18 shortages—it has got one, and that is equal to
all requirements. Also, it is hard enough to find
six or seven decently intelligent statesmen to form
a Cabinet, without creating a demand for 12G
more. Evidently Sir Robert Stout is too large a
man for a, small community, and he can’t
plane himself down to a size that will fit in
with his surroundings. He can’t understand
that there is nothing to be gained by organisation
if there is only one man to be organised, and that
it is no good decentralising a single small boy,
or federating a solitary individual who will pro-
bably be as hungry and as much scattered after
he is federated as before. If Sir Robert Stout
were alone on a desert island his first proceeding
would be to mobilise himself, and his next to con-
centrate himself rapidly on the frontier in case of
attack, and having thus provided for safety he
would probably elect a legislature and decentralise
himself in order that local interests might be suffi-
ciently looked after. Not being reduced to this
extremity, however, he proposes instead to go out
into the wild waste places of New Zealand, and
having caught the solitary inhabitant of the regions
to re-organise that person on a sound political
basis. And unhappily the process promises to
cost more than the whole inhabitant is worth.
Dr. McLeod, the alleged bigamist, has been sen-
tenced to three years’ gaol, although it was clear
that when he married a second time (it was in
America) he had in his pocket a decree of divorce
from his first wife procured under United States
law. The judge said he must have obtained the
decree under false pretences, but that is quite beside
the question, for surely the Sydney Quarter Sessions
is not recognised as a court of appeal from the
legal decisions of the Republic of the United
States! The Bulletin wonders what U.S.
Consul Griffin now thinks of the insult aimed by
one of the Kangaroo’s inferior courts at the
Yankee goddess of justice. What the deuce has
Australia got to do with Dr. McLeod’s American
bigamy anyhow? Ho married his first wife,in
New South Wales, it is true, but that has nothing
whatever to do with the alleged crime, for both
the divorce and the re-marriage took place
under the stars and stripes, and if the courts
of New South Wales fail to recognise Ameri-
can divorces they should close their eyes to
American weddings. If McLeod is guilty,
the American law, not the Australian, has been
broken, and Consul Griffin is the pboper prose-
cutor. Yet what do we find? We find Consul
Griffin standing up in the witness-box to certify
to the legality of McLeod’s divorce, and therefore,
to the legality of his second marriage! If
McLeod is to be punished why not also punish
Consul Griffin, who has the cheek to represent
in New South Wales a country with such lax laws?
The natural sequence of the decision in the
McLeod case is that the Sydney Licensing Bench
will in future have to take cognisance of offences
against the wife-beating laws of Delaware and the
licensing system of Arizona.
- -
“ In consequence of failing health Mr. W. 11.
Smith, the First Lord of the Admiralty and leader
of the House of Commons, will be immediately
raised to the Peerage.” So it is cabled. Smith is
the dreary mediocrity who made his bloated for-
tune out of railway-bookstall keeping, of which he
acquired a monopoly, and who was satirised by
W. S. Gilbert in the character of Sir Joseph
Porter. “ I polished up the handle so carefullee,
and now I am the ruler of the Queen’s Naveo ’:
The Bulletin would heartily approve of the rais-
ing in Australia of a fund for the Balaclava
survivors if it thought that the sending to England
(where the sum collected in aid of the destitute
remnants of the Light Brigade amounted on a
recent date to £23 1) would bo felt by the ruling
classes as a brutal satire on the meanness and
cold-blooded ingratitude of British Royalty,
“ aristocracy,” and bourgeoisie. But the rich of
Great Britain will feel no compunction at the
acceptance by their old and destitute servants of
Australian gold, any more than they will blush
when they find that another worn-out soldier has
rotted to death, or that another broken-down
labourer has hanged himself on a nail which ho
has hammered into the wall of his rack-rented
den. Less than four millions of Australian people,
when the dockers and their wives and children
were in a death-grip with capital, contributed tens
of thousands of pounds in aid of the weaker side,
and how much did the British give ? Why should
Radical Australia eternally play the part of the
good Samaritan in order that the burden may be
taken from the backs of the Tories? We are
opening the safety-valve. Far better let an effete
social system be shattered by the explosion.
The Age’s persistent thumping of the “ Bala-
clava ” drum resulted in a dismal assemblage of
rank and fashion at Melbourne Town Hall the
other afternoon. About 100 individuals or less
skulked into the supper-room to make believe
that they were an enthusiastic public meeting,
taking steps to provide beer and blankets for the
alleged Tennyson’s Light Brigade. When they
had glared around the prevailing emptiness and
said it was disgraceful to find such indifference
displayed, they got poor little Hopetoun to move
a resolution, upon which Secretary Walling -
ton had prepared him a speech, brist-
ling with references to the mother country
and the bones of her heroes. Then a few other
“ representative” persons played their little tunes
on those bones, the hat was sent round, and the
great national demonstration cashed up, or pro-
mised to cash up, to the tune of £25 in all. Where-
upon everybody voted thanks to everybody else,
and the show concluded amidst eighty cheers,
twenty of the original meeting having perma-
nently tailed off for drinks. The Age has made
the hideous error of demonstrating how weak
is the influence of its vaunted circulation
to boom a cause that is morally undeserving
and practically played out. Considering that the
paper has printed quite fifty columns of damaging
drivel, for a total return of some £l5O, it would
have been a better speculation on the part of the
Symes’ to give the Balaclava people a cheque at
the beginning and say no more about it. Of all
races on earth the Australians are least affected by
newspaper nonsense. This statement will stand
investigation and requires thinking over.
__
The revolt of the virgins at Parramatta Industrial
School will be worth the incidental expenses if it
can be used as a lever to prise an explanation out
of Minister Carruthers about that £5 for the
purchase of fireworks with which to while away
the tedious hours of Mrs. Great Britain’s last
birthday within the walls of that aesthetic retreat.
Is this another of the “ silken bonds,” or was the
good, but still human, young gentleman canoodled
into such expenditure of public money by devious
means ? It is about time that the nativity of Her
Gracious ceased to be commemorated in Australian
penal establishments at the public cost.
The Victorian Assembly sat for Jive hours
last week, owing to Premier Gillies not being
ready with any Bills. The overworked legislators
(paid at the rate of £l2 per week for 20 weeks of
three sittings each) got £2 Bs. per hour, which is
generous pay as legislators go. The bill against
the colony for those five hours would he about
£llOO without reckoning ministerial screws.
Hooroo ! for the Tory of wealth—
Bookseller;
Directly he gets out of health,
Poor feller !
Old England, whose flag we so “ proudly unfurl”
At once does her duty by making an carl
Of him who is looking so queer, O, dear 1
Yes, as there seems something the matter with
Smith
(His liver he cannot do anything with),
The Party must make him a peer, that’s clear —
Another Conservative peer.
No means than a flourishing trade
Is quicker
To get one a nobleman made;
Malt liquor
Has brewed legislators like Hindlip and Bass,
And Guinness, and men of their money-bag class
(E’en bookstalls ain’t better than beer, no fear U
The millionaire dullard he squanders his gold
On grovel, until he is feeble and old,
Then Vicky says: “Make him a peer, you hear—■
Another plutocracy peer.”
This system of giving sham fame
Is rot ten;
Bib Smith ho would soon find his name
Forgotten
On Lin- bait merits of what he has done,
But now a denied title descends to his son
Who will move in a loftier sphere, the dear —
Because his political parent had pelf
And pains in the stummick, so went on the shelf.
Dear readers, then let us revere the peer—
The commonplace loyalty peer.


[?]
846 Macquarie-street North, Sydney, June 25,1890.
M y Dear Moorabinda, —
One of the saddest sights possible in the sad nineteenth
century is the increasing battalion of “sanitary” young
men and women whose language is hygienic and whose
mode of life is modelled on So-and-so’s health-tips. Science
is responsible for these non-condiment and anti-corset
prigs. Popular lectures with coloured diagrams have
raised up a haggard army of physically anxious people
who drink iuke warm water instead of something hot and
strong, because they have seen depicted on a four-foot
canvas the exact tint of their liver under the stimulating
influence of boiling coffee or burnt cognac; who devour
over-cooked vegetables because the paternal scientist on
the stump had in a magic-lantern to show the exact size
of the cahhage-worm and how long he must be boiled
before it is safe to digest him, and they chew miserably
through brown bread without butter because a medical
crank of commercial instincts charged one shilling at the
door to see a coloured plate showing the awful effect of
cow-grease on the human biliary-duct. At bails they
level deadly looks at the ignorant who revel in the fatal
fascination of turkey and Jules Mumni, while they par-
take of a flabby banana and a biscuit and then waltz
energetically for ten minutes by a stop-watch to ensure
the immediate digestion of same ; and when they ask a
decollette damsel to sit out a dance under the honeysuckle
they’re all the time devoutly hoping that she’s got
hygienic clothing on, and commence the conversation by
a well-turned remark on the prevalence of phthisis. Yes,
the place is overrun with health-cranks who wear their
gowns and petticoats hanging by tapes on to their collar,
bones, and who won’t put powder on their pork-like chins
because “ it fills up the pores and induces acne.” Poor
things! I am told of a “sanitary” matron who doles out
warm water dashed with lemon at what should be her
afternoon teas because she wants to preserve her friends’
health.
The 18th inst. was a white-stone day for long-haired
Sydney, since it saw the debut of the “Knight and his
lady,” as the dailies dub Sir Charles and Lady Halle, at
the sanctimonious Centenary Hall, where the seats are all
hard, shiny pews, and you place your dimpled elbow on a
hymn-book rest. Even the gubernatorial perch was a
straight-backed pew, thinly veiled in zebra stripe, and it
was pitiful to see Baron Carington (who owns up to a non-
appreciation of classcal music) trying to fit himself into a
sharp corner so that he might suffer some of his social
penance sideways. The house was crowded from floor to
gallery, lint tiic general appearance was quite spoilt by
several misguided creatures wearing hats and street-gear
which jolted the harmonious whole very badly. Lady
Carington wore pink striped silk cut square in front and
filled in with white lace corsage bouquet of white
camellias, Watteau fan with pearl sticks, and pleated
crepe de Chine floral opera cloak with velvet yoke collar ;
Miss Waienn, pale-saffron tulle over silk with brown
moire contrast; while spotted about ttie hall were Miss
Frances Saville in heliotrope and cream silk with shoulder
bohquetof violets: Miss Carrie Swain in black and diamonds
and white satin and fur opera cloak ; Madame Char-
bonnet-Kellermann, black and blue silk with Tosca collar.
Upon the carpeted platform the gowning was diverse.
Lady Halle (who is tall and well-made and the very
image of her photograph) wore a gown of white satin
brocade en traine, with angel-sleeves, puffed high on the
shoulder, the bodice cut low back and front, with corse-
let of gold and pearl galon finished at the front by two
long girdle ends of crepe weighted with pearl passemen-
terie, the front of the bodice adorned with diagonal
linos of the galon—dewy diamonds glistening from every
fold and appearing in rings, bracelets, and hair-orna-
ment ; white satin shoes. Miss Annis Montagu (who was
loaded with'garden-offerings and refused an encore) wore
cream satin covered with crystal-net, the bodice adorned
with pearled lace, and looked very nice, hut the profusion
of weird jewels with which she loaded her neck and
arms quite spoilt the toilet as a toilet, and reminded me
of a South Sea Island belle after the advent of a “ mis-
sion ” ship. Miss Naylor proved a quiet contrast in
black merv, with panel of steel-embroidery and soft water-
falls of Maltese lace. As for the music. Sir Charles
Haile —an old gentleman with smooth white hair cut, d la
quail, and who looks just like what Sir Thou art my soul
Robinson will look some day—plays with a delicate pre-
cision and a self-effacement that ought to command our
wondering respect ; but being very honest, I must admit
I am Goth enough to want instruinentalisation with more
slap ahoui it- I prefer prestissimos that scamper, not
jog. Lady Haile, on the contrary, satisfies m\ vitiated
taste for the fiddle in every way. For her swinging
dreamy “ Berceuse Slave” and the bracketed contrast-
ing “ Round of the Hobgoblins ” she could not deny the
thundering encore, but contributed an ideal encore piece
in the dotted shape of a Polish mazurka which made me
split the palm of my left glove.
The usual 400 turned up to the School of Industry ball
on 17th hist at Sydney Exhibition Building to hoist high
their end of the sacred log of philanthropy. Everybody
was there, of course, in purple and fine linen, and except
that the dance-card concluded rather too suddenly at
1.30, things would have been absolutely tip-top. Lady
t lining ton did not quite look her best in a horribly-trying
lobster-coloured gown of silk and net cut on the tar-barrel
plan ami (rainless, with stagey contrast in gold and red
brocade, hut her diamonds were glorious. Lady Charles
Scott (what a very "dark” Admiralty House lady she is
to lie sure, compared with Mrs. Admiral Fairfax !) choso
pink silk the exact colour of a plucked chicken. Mrs.
Burdekin combined cream satin and gauze with floral gar-
lands in a delightfully dodgy manner. Mrs. Vandcrvccr
Greene, black velvet de Medici get-up, with which her
(lowers didn’t harmonise. Most of die gowns were for-
liveable, and a noticeable feature tms Die degage Brown
Potterian attitudes adopted by budding beauty which has
also learnt to wear its shoulders under its ears and narrow
its eyes as it looks at you after the most approved manner
of that frame-work charmer. And the number of aureo-
lined locks was breathless—they all seem to tip their little
knobs with gold. The fiddling and the feed, which were
both excellent, were attended to respectively by Needs’
band and Baumann.
One could scarcely compute just how many people
turned up to the invitation reception given to Sir Charles
and Lady fiall6 on 19th inst. by the Mayor and Mrs.
Burdekin, but every room and corridor in the Mayoress’s
official domain was thronged, and some of the gowning
was very choice. Mrs, Burdekin, who received in the
vestibule—which was beautifully decorated with ferns
and pot-plants, and who handed Lady 1 !all6 a very special
nosegay as she welcomed her—wore pale fawn silk de-
signed in a tartan stripe of pink and blue, with side
panels and vest pf glittering passementerie in the colours
of the gown ; floral toque of buttercups, and handsome
hand-bouquet, composed principally of buttercups. Lady
Halle wore a plain straight gown in heliotrope woollen
with full sleeves; the hands, vest revers, and collar of
violet velvet; bonnet in rough straw, adorned with
pink and yellow roses and bows of violet velvet,
which did not harmonise with the gown, and
had a Year One-y look about it. Miss Frances
Saville sported a handsome frock in moonshine-green
with a wide bronze bordering; side panel of tiny
pinked out silk frills, bonnet en suite. Mrs. Charles Halle
(Sir Charles’ daughter-in-law, who is here with her hus-
band) black silk, hat of pink roses; the Misses Halliday
broken checks in dark brown woollen, with velvet clceves,
dark-brown velvet toques en suite ; Mrs. Carruthers black
merv, grey felt hat with dark-green feathers ; but owing
to the gloominess and multiplicity of the refreshment —I
mean reception-rooms, the gowns were not well on view,
and one missed lots of people. Conversation and Need’s
band were the distraction provided for those units who
didn’t want to swarm after the guests of the day all the
time, but why the band was placed in the gallery over-
looking the chaos of the Centennial Hall, from whence
they sounded like the voice of a mosquito crying in the
wilderness—isn’t explained. J. L. Toole beamed on the
proceedings without his eyeglass.
A musical crank is at present putting up at a big
Sydney hotel with a charming lady who is believed to lie
his legal comforter. At meal-times this rising Ruhenstein
stops suddenly in the middle of his dinner and drumming
rapturously on his plate with his knife and fork, says to
his wife, who sits beside him: “ There, ta-ta, ta-ta, ta*
listen, my dear ” (more ferocious pounding of the ear-
marked china-ware), “ delicious inspiration ! Remember
it!” (Ta-ta-ta, &c., all over again.) “Now, have you
caught it ? I shall want you to embody it on the piano
after dinner ! ” He surely must have seen “ Mamma.”
The Bonrke Belief Fund Ball has been postponed until
Ist. July, owing to delays in the decorative work. The
Earl and Countess of Hopetoun have sent for five guineas’
worth of tickets, and are announced as patrons of the hall,
with the Earl and Countess of Kintore. The tickets (to
be obtained everywhere) are selling rapidly.
Lord and Lady Carington, with Capt. Trench, A.D.C.,
left via Melbourne on 20th inst. for Hobart, where Lord
Carington will instal the recently-elected Grand Master of
the Grand Lodge of Tasmania.
One of the most exclusively fashionable trimmings
visible this season is Astrakhan, which is generally worn in
deep, wide borders wherever a border is needed, though I
saw a girl with it over the whole front of her skirt the other
day, and a nice penny it must have cost her. Astrakhan
is very pretty and snug-looking, and I always affected it
as a fashion until I read the other day what cold-blooded
cruelty is practised on the parent sheep to procure the
crispy curled coat, I can’t descend to details without the
aid of a medical treatise—anyhow, it made me feel as if I
couldn’t look at Astrachan again. Fortunately, much of
the stuff generally worn is cotton imitation curled by
machinery, so please don’t drop your tears until you’vq
felt it with your finger and thumb.
Fo the little toadying “movement” to badger Lady
Carington with a parting gift has fallen through with a
hopeless crash, and the senders of the three hundred
“ socially in-exclusive” circulars (Society is always charm-
ing to the outsider when it has a begging-list up its
sleeve) and the enthusiastic conveneresses of the Town
Hall meeting are all ready to expire with mortification.
“ For adequate public reasons” Lady Carington refuses to
accept the parting tribute of a disconsolate vice-regaldom,
which, interpreted, means that she doesn’t intend to lie
subjected to the probable embarrassments which may
occur over the horrid thing. The hubbub and back talk
over Lady Loch’s “ jules” made the gift gall and worm-
wood to the neutral-tinted divinity, and neighbouring
vice-regality is judiciously aroused to the fact that, as
one tadpole doesn’t make an eel-pie, a skirmishing repre-
sentative female in a high bonnet doesn’t embody the
great yearning impulse of a big colony—not by a long
way.
On 19th inst. Lady Carington, with her little daughters,
paid an informal visit of inspection to the newly-uphol-
stered apartments in the Town Hall, which are to be the
Mayoress’ special domain. The rooms, which have been
personally supervised by Mrs. Burdekin, are beautifully
fitted up—curtains £lOO each and soon —and Lady Caring-
ton complimented the Mayoress on the excellent taste
displayed.
Y r ours affectionately,
SAPPHO SMITH.
i he very successful hall given by Mr. and Mrs. C. B.
Payne, “ Olenhurnie,” Waverley, on 19th inst., was
attended by nearly two hundred guests, and as the floor
was superb and the evening chilly, dancing was very en-
joyable. Mrs. Payne (who made a perfect hostess) wore
dahlia-red satin, with fan and gloves cu suite; her two
daughters in pale yellow and ciel-hlue silk respectively.
Miss Burns wore cream-merv with gauze wing sleeves and
saffron roses ; Miss Brewer, mauve silk with violet velvet
braces. The grounds were beautifully illuminated with
fairy lamps, and the guests did not disperse until 3 a.in.
The Jubilee concert of the Sydney Liedertafel, on 19th
inst., at Sydney Exhibition Building, was attended by a
perfect swam! of people, there not living sufficient
chairs to accommodate the heavy throng. I/mi and
Lady Carington, with Sir Charles and Lady Halle, were
present, Lady Carington wearing a gown of white brocade
with lace front, cluster of pink roses, and diamond orna-
ments ; Mrs. Mayoress Burdekin wore ciel-hlue silk with
pearled lace, the feature of the evening was Miss
Bertha Rowe’s rendering of the rather overdone “ Ah !
fors ti lui,” giving Pinsuti’s “ Three Wishes ” as an encore,
and the part-singing—especially Handel’s “ Largo,” as
arranged for male voices, was very special. Charles
Huenerbein proved as usual an unSurpassabie accom-
panist.
A very fashionable attendance graced the concert given
on 18th inst. by the St. Cecilia Choir in Sydney Protestant
Hall. The chorus, 50 in number, all wore white gowns,
occupied raised seats draped in white and crimson, ami
sang with commendable precision from first to last. Miss
Pedley was in excellent voice in the “ King’s Minstrel,”
for which she was encored, though Mr. Charles Bowler’s
rendering of Marzial’s softly-passionate “ Ask Nothing
More” lacked tenderness all through. The chief item of
tire evening was Greg’s sonata for pianoforte and violin.
Mrs. James Briefly, Clythe, Bunvood, will be At Home
on July 2nd, at S p.m.
The Gleinvood Cricket Club, Glebe Point, hold a private
social in the local town hall on 27th inst. Tickets (double)
ton-ai id-six.
On 19th inst. Mr. .1. L. Toole lunched with Mr. Justice
limes at Darlinghnrst, and afterwards occupied a place
happily on Hie bench in the Central Criminal Court.
The chief item was the alleged murder of her infant by a
servant-girl. An inspiriting afternoon for a low come-
dian !
The movement headed by Sir. H. Wallace Mort, to
erect a permanent memorial to the memory of Rev. G. F.
Macarthur, will be handsomely responded to by the old
King’s School boys, who number among them many of
Sydney’s richest and most influential men.
A deputation from the German Club, including Dr.
Schwartzbaoh and Mr. Von der Heyde, called upon Sir
Charles and Lady Hal 16 on 20th inst. to welcome them in
the name of the club. During the visit Sir Charles re-
gretted he would not be able to visit the local lions, as ho
is due in London on 20th Aug. From Sydney the Hall6s
travel to Brisbane, Miss Naylor going with them as
accompanist. Mr. H. Vincent West, their advance agent,
is already in the Banana capital.
The Masonic Lodge St. Andrew will hold their annual
ball at West’s rooms, on July 9, at half-past eight.
At Sydney Grand Lodge Masonic installation, the other
evening, Lord Carington (who presided) mentioned that
lie had appointed Dr. Harman Tarrant, M. L.C., to take his
place when he left the colony in December next.
To give another strong push to the Women’s College
movement a posse of enthusiasts will Hold tableaux
vivants under the patronage of Lord and Lady Carington,
at the School of Arts, on 3rd prox. Tickets everywhere.
The Halle concert, on 21st inst., was postponed owing
to Lady Dalle having been attacked with digital rheuma-
tism. The seats taken for the 21st hold good for Friday,
27th inst.
A hall and banquet to commemorate the “ Glorious
Fourth " will he held on that date in the New Masonic
Hall, Castlereagh-street, Sydney.
Social notifications and other matter for this column
should, it possible, reach The Bulletin office by Monday.
The publican versus prohibition debate
may be most readily settled by the use of
Marshall’s Tonic Nervine. It is a reviver, but
not an intoxicant, it exhilarates without reaction.
Henry George has by no means enriched
himself by his Australian travels, yet he refused
to accept the substantial proceeds of his final
lecture at Adelaide, intended as a “ benefit ” to
himself.
J. M. Grant is remembered as the tren-
chant Victorian Land Minister who broke up the
squatting monopoly. His second daughter has
just married one of the largest landowners in
Scotland. So time brings its revenges. Mrs.
Grant is David Gaunson’s sister.
We arc just upon the Centenary of the
commencement of the second year in the French
Revolution. In July, 1790, the foundations had
been laid. The National Assembly was formed,
as precursor of the Convention and the Republic,
and the Bastille had fallen. Mirabeau was the
hero, with Robespierre creeping up, and Danton
thundering at the Cordeliers Club.
Kinsman got off with £lOO fine, which ho
ruefully paid in two £5O notes, but said afterwards
that he had a couple of marriages to solemnise at
night, which would help to pull him up. Alto-
gether the thing is a big advertisement for the
auctioneer-parson who this year will likely do
more business than ever. When poor old
“ Bishop ” Bailey, of Sydney, was in a similar fix
years ago, Sir Alfred Stephen sent him up for six
months
Judge M’Farland has sentenced N.S.W.
Railway Commissioner Eddy’s libeller, Reseigh
Martin, to two years’ imprisonment, and a fine of
one pound. As Martin is a newspaper man, the
monetary part of the penalty will probably fit his
financial condition to a hair ; but why the Judge
should have imposed so tremendous a sentence of
imprisonment is not clear, for the prosecutor had
not been charged with a felony by his maligner.
Even Editor Parke, who was held to have falsely
charged Lord Euston with unmentionable sins—
sins punishable with death in N.S. Wales up to a
late date —was sent to prison for only twelve
Ui:»Ul hs
CORRESPONDENCE
“E. R. Bowman”; “Golden Shanty” next
month. Mullen, of Melbourne, or George Robertson will
send you Karl Marx’s book on “Capital.” “ G.H.” :
Afraid you will And difficulty in gaining literary employ-
ment for babes and sucklings “ Trouble ” : You can-
not recover anything. A claim for wages must be
founded on a contract, expressed or implied, that wages
shall be paid. Under the circumstances detailed by you
no such contract existed. The girl under age, though
entitled to support, is in a similar position “John
Daly ” (Queanbeyan): (1) Lueus a non lucendo is an ety-
mological joke : Incus, signifying a grove, is derived from
lucere, to shine; non lucendo means not shining. (2)
Ex officio, by virtue of office. (3) “Eerie”’is a Scotch
word signifying terrifying or terrified ; “Eyrie,” the word
with which you have confounded it, means an eagle’s nest
Mount Hartley ” (Oooktown) : Have had wood tested
by competent wood-engraver. The grain is too coarse to
be of any use for fine work, and there are other woods
more suitable for common work “Compass ’’(Wel-
lington): Why not send us some more?.. ,“W.8.”
(Cobargo) : Many thanks, but we had already seen it....
“Ah Chee ” ; Rhythm faulty ; moralising washy .and
superabundant “Sparta”: Not half had, but done to
deathlike the “Six Hundred.’’....“ Oriental Pedlers”:
Much too long “ Jacky Jack”: You might do worse
than write verse, hut worse verse you couldn’t write.
Here are some of your best lines :
“ Their sinful practices he said were really very warm
Tins,
He noticed that they were, in fact, no better than the
Mormons.
No wonder in their forest homes domestic wars were
rife,
When a cultured savage was not content with one, and
but one, wife.”
This is-mere doggerel....“ R.W.” (Sutherland): Senti-
ments more admirable than diction.. .“Andys”: You
say—
The helpless you harass—the poor you oppress,
Unheeding their silent, imploring distress.'
The widow may wail, and the orphan may weep,
And thousands may curse you, not loudly but deep,
Who gives to the poor, doth lend to the Lord,
E’en a cup of cold water shall have its reward !
Take heed to this warning while yet there is time,
E’er adjournment be made to a warmer clime !
But you know there is no precept against beer-selling, and
as for the “shouter,” who gives it away, why the water-
dispenser is simply “ not in it” with him. [Many letters
held till next week.]
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Theatre Royal J. L. Toole.
Her Majesty's “After Dark,"
Criterion “School.”
Darlinghurbt Skating Rink.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Opera House “Boccaccio.”
Theatre Rovai. “ Flying South”
Princess’s “ David Garrick,”
Alexandra “Mamma.”
New Bijou “ She Stoops to Conquer.’
Victoria Hall The U.S. Minstrels.
At last afforded an opportunity of showing
what he can do unassisted, Hedley Churchward
has furnished three admirable scenes for “School,”
at Sydney Criterion, and this was so thoroughly
recognised by the audience that he was compelled
to bow his acknowledgements in return for a big
ovation on first night. Titheradge’s return to
Sydney boards was the cause of great enthusiasm,
and as Jack Poyntz— the stereotyped cynical
Robertsonian man of the world —he did not dis-
appoint popular expectation. Anson’s Beau
Farintosh is, so far, his weakest Criterion effort ;
it is difficult to find fault with it, but there is an
indefinable something wanting. In the last
act, renouncing hair-dye after a severe ill-
ness, lie might also, with advantage, tone
down a mahogany - lined complexion sugges-
tive of exposure and Atlantic navigation.
“ Made-up’’ simply by a slight exaggeration of
personal peculiarities, “Dot” Bouoicault’s “Krux”
is a fine impersonation of a thankless part; Geo.
Lash Gordon’s Dr. Sutcliffe is, perhaps, next to
Mr. Meanly in “Friends,” his best performance;
and Percy Lyndal’s Lord Beaufoy—we prefer him
in heavier parts—is quite up to the usual standard
of his juveniles. It scarcely requires any effort on
the_ part of Emma Temple to impersonate the
amiable and unselfish Bella; as Naomi Tighe
blithe Pattie Browne is quite at home, and Mrs.
Bolton is a satisfactory instructress. The school
girls are wonderfully well personified by a number
of specially-hired young ladies. The close of this
comedy, when Beaufoy purposely leads the other
characters to believe that he has ruined Bella, and
then justifies himself by denouncing their selfish-
ness ere confounding them by introducing her as
his wife, “is clean agin human natur,” but
“School” is certain to be highly popular with
circle and stall-goers, though it has not sufficient
stamina to attract big galleries.
¥&
At the Halles’ opening Sydney concert in
the Centenary Hall, it was refreshing to find that
the Governor’s entrance was not received with
“God Save the Queen.” The Halles and the
Turners—who are also returners—were rapturously
welcomed, and the enthusiasm throughout, par-
ticularly at the close of Norman-Neruda’s last
number, was at white-heat. As an unsuccessful
but undaunted rosin-rubber near us remarked :
“ Only the man who has struggled with the violin
for 12 years under a constant shower of jeers can
thoroughly appreciate Norman-Neruda’s playing.”
Rippling is the word that best describes the
piano-playing of Sir Charles Halle, whom we last
heard in Manchester, His work seems to be done
wholly from the wrists, and is not accompanied
by that swaying of the body and bobbing of the
head with which we are all so familiar. Though
apparently not possessed of the tremendous dash
and firework brilliancy of Ketten—an artiste
addicted to taking liberties with his com-
poser—it may be confidently asserted that no
player so peculiarly adapted for the inter-
pretation of Beethoven, Mendelssohn, Chopin,
and other composers of what may be termed the
quiet school, has previously visited these shores.
Annis Montague, suffering from bronchitis, sang
a couple of very difficult solos creditably, and
retired laden with flowers. Charles Turner, also
apparently indisposed, was husky and uncertain
in piano passages and sometimes failed to give
notes their true value, but sang with exquisite
taste and feeling. The second concert of the
series was postponed by the rheumatism that has
settled in Lady Halle’s left hand till Thursday,
the 26th,
Mi * Mi *
At Sydney Royal, Herman Merivale’s
“Don,” a provokingly unnatural and not particu-
larly funny farcical comedy, is drawing good
houses. J. L. Toole is not a character actor; his
Milliken, M. A., is a highly amusing, “ h ” droping,
“r” appending vulgarian, who might pass for a
suddenly enriched butler or a retired butterman,
but, by no stretch of the imagination, can be re-
garded as a life-like impersonation of a cultured
college-tutor. John Billington received a great
reception on his first Sydney appearance as
the other don—a small and unsuitable part. It
is a pity to see such an able and experienced
actor performing the part of mortar-carrier for
another man’s brick-making. George Shelton (or
isit Gustavus?) was right and characteristic as the
college “gyp,” but the appearance of so many ill-
habited and wooden young gentlemen in the other
parts caused us to question the advisability of
importing “sticks” into this well-timbered country.
The Misses Johnstone, Liston, and our own Alice
Deorwyn were equal to all the small emergencies
by which they were encountered, but the graceful
and ladylike Irene Vanbrugh, with all the natural
qualifications for the simulation of the inyenuc, is
sadly in want of stage experience.
» -* 4- *
Things hum at Darlinghursfc Skating Rink,
where the clever Bartelle Family of bicyclists
have been engaged to give nightly exhibitions.
** * *
“ After Dark ’’still draws good houses at
Her Majesty’s, where, as stated last week, William
Rignold makes his last appearance this season on
Friday night. Houses so far have been unvary-
ingly good, and “After Dark,” almost in the
hands of a new company, will probably enter on
its fourth week to increased business.
* Mi Mi *
Chas. Warner returns to England for
Augustus Harris’s new Drury Lane drama, after
two years in Australia, whereas he only intended
to stay a few weeks, like a Toole or a Gaiety Com-
pany, the change of intention involving a high
tribute to Warner's powers. His Coupeau makes
one wonder why he never became an Irving, and
one may fairly ask how far inferior his Hamlet is
to Irving’s, and how much superior to Wilson
Barrett’s, while it is indeed a matter of regret
that his fine, manly Othello, equal to Chas. Dillon
at his best, has not been heard.
Mi * MU Mi
“ Boccaccio” has improved upon its first
performance at Melbourne Opera House, and
business, which fell off for a couple of nights,
booms as of yore. Snazelle, always making his
points easily and legitimately, has put new life
into Lambertuccio, and a slanging match between
that shattered olive-raiser and the cooper’s wife
abounds in touches of nature. People do say,


A GHOST
is not a photograph, nor a photo, a ghost—but a good photo, is a
true reflection of the original. For high-art photos, go to the
London Palace of Art, 10 Park-street, Sydney. Country photographers’ work from developement
to completion executed at lowest prices. Bromides a speciality, Staff of artists kept for working up.
indeed—but no matter. People say anything
except their prayers, and when they say them
.things generally turn out wrong, especially for
building societies. Yes, “Boccaccio” has dissi-
pated a good deal of the Cimmerian gloom that
enshrouded a first-night audience. The plot,
having lost its indecent reason from motives of
delicacy, totters about in a condition of abject
insanity, but when the thing is getting weaker
than usual, a first-class chorus prop it up with a
noble burst of music. Orchestra and full strength
of the company create their grandest disturbance
around Woodheld, who stands in the middle and
puts on jam, while everybody sings out that he’s
the Prince, as loud as passible. At odd times the
well-beloved tenor chips in with a majestic ad-
mission that he i. s' the Prince, whereupon they all
start renouncing his identity, just as though they
had struck a fresh fact. The effect is consider-
able, however, now that the debutante, Miss
Young, has sweetened her high soprano. Ken-
nedy fetches them with one ballad, although the
rest of him resembles cold porridge, and other
people come to the front with more or less vigour
as occasion requires. In the name part, Nellie
Stewart runs upon lines quite distinct from
Madame Burton’s, one being quick and mercurial
where the other is slow and stately. Evidently
they both get there just the same, and if some-
body will pass the banjo —thanks, very much—
That horsey chestnut, “Flying Scud, - ’
look another pathetic canter at Melbourne Royal
on Saturday night. The beast carried four
wooden legs and a head like a fiddle, and was
altogether so hideous that when they pushed him
in at one door and out at another, to make believe
he was a different dromedary, nobody swallowed
the vain deception. The trick was as thin as the
scud himself. A jockey’s room full of fat girls
disguised as Mick O’Brien and kindred heroes was
another hollow mockery, while a distant cardboard
struggle for the Derby, terminating in a jog-trot
between four lame giraffes brought down the
curtain with a sickening thud. Some variety
business on Epsom Downs, together with
the realism of three very nice girls treating
Herbert Flemming to tanglefoot and sandwiches,
deserves favourable notice, likewise some of the
scenery and supernumerary cheering. In fa-1, a
towzled mob, shouting “hooroo” at ten shillings
a week, would, have encored the Derby only the
four emaciated bullocks fell dead after catching
the judge’s eye. and it was too late to order in a
fresh lot. As a vehicle for histrionic art “Flying
Scud ” offers fewer opportunities than a hearse.
When the characters, male or female, have any-
thing on their minds they wander into the stable
to talk about it. As a rule, they are concealed
under the manger, and there is no health in
them. The actor who represents a certain noble
“pigeon ” ought to be trapped for Captain Brewer
without delay, but actors like Clyndes, Flemming
and Walton may be allowed to hang on to this
mortal sphere until they find time to repent.
Royoe’s conception of Gosling seems woefully
skinny to those who remember George Belmore,
and Miss Edith Blande’s light is hidden under a
bushel which purports to be a riding hat.
* # «
At Melbourne Princess’s there was not an
overwhelming rush to welcome Mrs. Potter and
Bellew last Saturday. Yet those ornate per-
formers attracted a large audience. In “ David
Garrick,” so recently successful in Sydney, an in-
telligent actor never fails to score, but of Bellew,
favoured with special physical qualifications for
looking the little tragedian, it can justly be said
that he makes Garrick but a tinsel hero, a man
who lives to act rather than one who acts to live.
Born actors, gifted with the art to conceal their
artifice, are met in every branch of industry, and
if Garrick was a born actor it is probable that he
played the character of an ordinary individual
in private life, instead of posing as a beatific
vision. Sothern of yore, and Titheradge
fprite recently infused some warm human nature
into the alleged genius whom Bellew supplies with
every outward indication of a stagey mind. How-
ever, although men may see no more than a fairly
clever-mannered actor in this David Garrick, the
girls will, generally speaking, perceive a perfect
little duck. By that same token the bemashed
condition of Violet Gresham is justified, and if
Mrs. Potter could interpret the romantic love of
-girlhood with fewer elbows and knees, a less
monotonous artificiality of voice, and more intel-
ligence in the lighter passages, she would carry
out the illusion all the time. Unhappily Mrs.
Potter has studied winsome, frisky ways in the
Minnie Palmer school, and h°r attempts to be
sportive smack of pantomime. Of the others, old
Gresham and his preposterous flunkey are de-
cidedly amusing, and as “ David Garrick” is a
bright play, anyhow, Bellew should be fetching
’em with his big “ drunken scene,” for another
week at least, if arrangements permit. “Our
Bitterest Foe,” in which Saas takes chief honours,
occupies the first half-hour of the entertainment,
and a beautiful wait between the second and third
acts of “ Garrick” whiled away another twenty
minutes on Saturday.
*- -* W- -*-
At the Alexandra, where the fragrance of
“Sweet Lavender” aroused no sympathetic sniff
worth mentioning, they have fallen back upon
“Mamma,” a large lady of elastic morals who
runs her daughter’s matrimony on the “little and
often ” system. Mr. Frank Thornton’s company
play this airy atrocity of a comedy for more than
it is worth, but matters are doomed apparently to
look bleak and chill in the temple of popular
prices until Bland Holt comes along next Satur-
day week. The Bijou has had nearly enough of
“Joseph’s Sweetheart,” so on the 28th Messrs.
B. and B. purpose setting up that grand old insti-
tution, “She Stoops to Conquer.” This choice
specimen of the Goldsmith’s art has been prepared
with due regard for archaeological correctness and
will hold the fort for a fortnight.
-;i:- * *
The niggers at Victoria Hall Hie still
revelling in the jokes which drove Noah to strong
drink ; the Waxworks continues to be filled with
mountains of flesh and so forth ; the Cyclorama
has celebrated the glorious I St h of June by getting
Wellington tight; and Edison’s Phonograph will
start talking at the Athenaeum on Friday (27th.).
The Macmahons announce that they succeeded in
stipulating that the Phonograph should start
operations in Melbourne, wherefore grateful
citizens smile upon those enterprising brethren as
they ride proudly by on the historic family horse,
and think “ they wos werry good to us, they wos.”
** # *
Lord Hopefcoun, too, lias made his first ap-
pearance, as a public entertainer, at a Caledonian
ball, in the Town Hall. Before an audience of
800 brither Scots the Governor and the more bar-
baric portion of his suite danced a Highland reel,
to the luscious strains of Piper M‘Donald’s pipes.
“Then, by special request, the dance was repeated,
the company heartily applauding Ids Excellency
when he returned to the dais.” The Countess
wasn’t on in this scene because she’s a svvate
colleen.
** * *
Her Gracious’ latest proof of womanly
sympathy, &0., consisted in ordering her coach-
man to stop while a couple of greasy Savoyards
made a bear “ perform ” for her royal edification.
Next day the foreigners carted the wretched beast
down to Windsor Castle and fooled it round the
teiaace in view of the Queen and her grand-
children. This will result in a great influx of per-
forming bears to England, where they have
hitherto been “run in” by the Society for Pre-
vention of Cruelty to Animals. Meantime The
Bulletin is anxiously waiting to see how the
Society intends to take Y.R.’s vagary, and
whether it intends to proceed against her for en-
ooni’aging a cruel and unlawful performance.
There now !
* iff iic-
The “ Fauntleroy ” company has fairly
reeked of professional jealousy and small spiteful-
ness. Minna and Mrs. Errol glared as they
passed by. Mrs. Hopkins prohibited Gracie from
swopping lollies with the little olive-branch, who
found herself and ma snorted at by the remaining
interpreters of a “ beautiful poem.” Again, when
the venerable Earl of Dorincourt announced his
benefit, manager Wotherspoon chipped in with a
stern interdict, and the proposed interesting
occasion collapsed amidst shrieks of universal dis-
cord. Now Wotherspoon talks of x’etaining the
services of Minna, and building up another com-
pany around that _ raging earthquake and Olive.
Meanwhile, the rival Eauntleroys, doomed to
acquire wisdom and bustle ixx an atmosphere
charged with hatred and strife, must be about as
rich in “childish love, truth, and purity” as an
old-man kangaroo. Drawn into the vortex of
feminine squabble what chance had those pre-
cocious maidens of cultivating anything like the
spirit of happy boyhood ? Master Betty used to
occupy the intervals between the acts of “Ham-
let” or “Macbeth” by playixxg marbles with a
chum, and would rush away from his game to
stalk upon the stage and soliloquise. There is
precious little battledore and shuttlecock about
the Eauntleroys, we fancy.
* » -*
The Adelaide public seem doomed to dis“
appointment in theatrical matters. A few weeks
ago Mrs. Gowntrotter was announced, but success
elsewhere kept her away. The same state of
affairs has occurred in connection with Nellie
Stewart’s company. Grattan Riggs has been sent
to fill the breach, and is playing a season of twelve
xxights to rather bad business. “ Eileen Gge” was
the opening piece, an Irish drama with little to
recommend it. “ Arrah-na-Pogue” follows. Then
Charles Warner plays three nights under Mac-
Mahonian management ere sailing for Drixry
Lane. _He will be succeeded by J. E. Sheridan,
who will produce “Uncle Tom’s Cabin” on a
scale of gx-eat xxiagnificence.
** m *
With Titheradge playing the husband, the
long-winded “ Doll’s House ” may possibly catch
oxx a bit at Sydney Criterion.
* * -:K-
An odd sort of teetotal lecturer has come
to Victoria—a man who (howling absurdity!)
delivers J. B. Gough’s oi’ations by rote. Gough
wanted badly to come to Australia, but had sold
himself to a lecture-bureau, which demanded £7O
a day clear, with all travelling and hotel ( !) ex-
penses paid. Star actors are not in it with such
people.
* 3f * -Mf
Miss Young, who is making her maiden
efforts in “ Boccaccio, ” is the stage-struck daughter
of a Melbourne jeweller. She shapes nicely, in
both senses of the term, and promises to produce
a distinct impression in tights.
» * -:if stf
The Burton and Stewart “ alternate
nights’ ” arrangement at Melbourne Opera House
gives them a chance to note a possible difference
in receipts in favour of one or other charmer.
Dangerous system. Tends to hatred, malice, and
hysterics.
* -& iff
Professor Douglas Archibald, M.A., of
Oxford, has opened at Melbourne Athemeuxn,
under MacMahonian management, with Edison’s
latest phonograph. This instrument “speaks a
piece ” by Mr. Gladstone with marvellous fidelity,
and reproduces the voices of other famous states-
men, some singers, and a few poets, pigeon-holed
in its interior for Australian reference. It re-
produces a single speech 10,000 times; a I’ecord
that Minister Carruthers —he has only two
speeches—can’t lick. Britain imports our refri-
gerated beef and mutton, we the fxozen fruits of
her philosophy and flowers of her eloquence, winch
quickly thaw under our warm skies.
Burton bigger, Nellie smaller,
Sweeter than Apollo warble ;
In a manner seems the taller,
Great Diana hewn from marble.
Psyche-like in face and figger
Nellie’s neater and more slender.
Than the smaller, or the bigger,
Creature sweeter, or more tender
Ne’er shed glory on her gender.
So, the poet—quite despairing
Of comparing goddess stately
With an angel lithe and supple
(Each his soul of souls ensnaring)
Calmly and discrim inately
Puts his feet against the fender, -
And the gin and water blender,
Quaint in phrases, warm as blazes
Sings the praises of the couple.
At Poverty Point.
It is strange that the management were afraid to ven-
ture the Australian play of “ Captain Swift ” in Warner’s
farewell Melbourne season.
The Bancrofts are selling off all their stage curiosities,
and there has been a rush for the Doll which figured as
the Baby in all the runs of “ Caste.”
Ernest Hutcheson, the Australian musical genius on the
piano, will return to Australia next year, after a brilliant
success in five years’ study at Leipsic.
Very evidently there are jars in the Lord Fauntleroy
Troupe, and an angry advertisement from Henry Edwards
in Melbourne denotes the fact. He is baulked in gathering
together his old comrades—Harwood, Ireland, Stewart,
&c.—in the “Merchant of Venice” trial scene, for his
farewell ben. What a ghastly business must it be to have
to manage the rival girls respectively presided over by
their rival ma’s ?
Mary Anderson has been married at last to Mr. Navarro,
of New York, who, like herself, is young, rich, beautiful—
and Roman Catholic.
Now that the Halids have arrived, Sydney D.T.’s
musical critic has got an agonising attack of Italian
italics.
Hagenbeck drives three lions in a chariot at Paris
Cirque. Two lions hold a skipping-rope while a dog jumps
over, and a lion even rides a clumsy bicycle.
Evidently Melbourne has its boss composer in Plumpton,
who has inserted brilliantly-successful songs in “ Boccac-
cio ” both for Marian Burton and Nellie Stewart.
Mrs. James, an Adelaide Wesleyan lady, is starred con*
siderably in Melbourne as a singer round the churches.
Even for Sundays she is billed. Oh, this is dangerous,
and the road to opera bouffe and tights. Haven’t you
seen it over and over again ? They begin in the choir, and
are egged on with the sacred concert. Facilis decensus
averni to “ Boccaccio ” and “Periohole.”
W. W. Collins, Sydney’s secular lecturer, is nowin
Christchurch.
La Potter and Kyrle Bellew play a season at Launceston
Academy of Music. Janet Achurch follows in their wake,
and then Dampier will plant his Lily among the Tas-
manian roses.
'the Theatre Royal, Hobart, is being thoroughly reno-
vated ; the pit will be enlarged, the stalls reseated, the
circle-accommodation increased, the stage will be
deepened, and the roof raised 20ft.
A young lady gusher writes to the Sporting and
Dramatic News on the relative virtues of Letty Lind
and_ Sylvia Grey. _ Letty she finds exhilarating as
devilled biscuit (!) while Sylvia is a moonlight sonata!
Thirty-one stone only is the weight of the Australian
girl Clara, aged 10, at Melbourne Waxworks.
It is to be hoped Mary Anderson’s marriage won’t be as
unlucky as Christine Nilsson’s. This superb event was
solemnised in Westminster Abbey because the spouse was
rich and could grease the fat bishops, who lost count of
him when he went poor. Nilsson began, like Jenny
Lind, as a little girl playing the fiddle in Stockholm
streets. She sighs. Pier voice is gone.
New theatre spoken of on the site of Olympic, the
Iron Pot, Melbourne. How about the other schemes for
Bourke-street and Collins-street?
Jefferson, in his “Autobiography,” errs in saying that he
brought the “Octoroon” to Australia. Before his time
it was acted at Melbourne Princess’s by Marie Duret, J.
H. Leroy, and Fawcett.
Adelaide theatre-goers demand a change. At the
Theatre Royal for a month past they have had Grattan
Miggs, _ then Bland Holt in blood and thunder, Wybert
Reeve in blood and thunder, and now Grattan Riggs has
turned up again.
The Little-Howe Company, a title reminiscent of sewing-
machines, after a highly successful season at Sydney
Gaiety, leave for Brisbane at an early date. Charles
Holloway and wife (Alice Deorwyu) have wholly seceded
on account of the former’s illness.- The Fauntleroy crowd
open on Monday for an eight nights’ season. They leave
for America by the Zeolandia.
There has been some talk of Bland Holt engaging young
Atholwood to play the part in “ Master and Man ” of
which Lawrence made so much, Lawrence being now back
with B. and B.
M. R. Sims and Buchanan are collaborating on the pro*
duction of an Irish drama which is intended to make
Boucicault die of envy. Sims, however, will probably
allow' the cloven hoof of his Liberal-Unionism to peep
forth and queer the show with insidious references to dear
old Hingland,
Charles Warner appeared in “Hamlet” for his benefit
at Melbourne Royal, as per The Bulletin’s suggestion.
Warner speaks Hamlet’s long lines with an easy natural-
ness which seems to modernise them, making them appear
to have been written a few- days ago.
At latest dates Sarah Bernhardt had pains in the legs.
Laura Villiers, niece of the proprietor of London Pavi-
lion and sister of the Graphic war artist, has been imper-
sonating Rachel, the great French actress, in a drama
professing to deal with the final incidents in her career.
Miss CIo Graves is the authoress.
Julia Neilson, sister of beautiful Adelaide Neilson, i s
being pushed to the front in London.
Jefferson, the comedian, is a most melancholy man,
despite his vast wealth. He has stood at the wing
dressed for Rip Van Winkle, and in such a mournful,
downy state that he had to be pushed on the stage.
Baby Nicholls’s father writes to the Melbourne press
complaining that his child is persecuted by the authorities,
and certainly makes out a. good case from his point of
view by showing how other girls, under 10, appear on the
stage with impunity. She has lost good engagements in
the “Silver King” and with Bland Holt.
Although Nelly Farren and Fred. Leslie were not a suc-
cess in America, the other Gaiety Company, led by
Lonneu, with “ Faust Up to Date,” has been an immense
draw. However, Farren and Leslie re-visit Yankeeland.
B. and B. pay £6OOO a year, it is said, for Melbourne
Bijou.
One feature of D’Oyley Carte’s new* London theatre is
the absence of all pillars for the support of the galleries,
which are constructed, like the Forth Bridge, on the canti-
lever principle.
Clement Scott tells a yarn of how, on George Rignold’s
first London appearance at the old Queen’s Theatre, Long
Acre, John Oxenford coughed incessantly in a stage-box.
This so annoyed George that, at the conclusion of an act,
he came before the curtain and said “ Ladies and Gen-
tlemen,—l am extremely sorry, but it is absolutely impos-
sible for me to act until this old gentleman ceases to
cough. Either he must cease to cough or Ito act. We
cannot both occupy the ear of the house.” Oxenford left,
and the manager, rushing up to Rignold, said; “What
have you done? Why, you’ve sent away the Times critic !
You’ll get no notice.” But he did ; Oxenford wrote a very
kindly- one.
Myra Kemble refused a year’s engagement at the Lon-
don Royalty.
W. H. Vernon, who was here with Genevieve Ward, acts
Justinian, in Grace Hawthorn’s production of “ Theodora,”
at the London Princess’s.
Harry St. Maur and company closed their season at
Auckland Opera House, on 7th June. David Christie
Murray’s new drama, “ Chums,” was not the howling suc-
cess anticipated. Some of the situations are good, but
the dialogue is too “ booky.”
When Braoy’s Opera Co. disband, some good performers,
including the tuneful Lilian Tree—at whose Brisbane
benefit more money was taken than local theatrical history
ever before recorded—will be out of engagement. The
Firm might import 50 singers and not get one half so good
as Miss Tree, or little Flora Graupner.
W. G. Carey joins William Rignold in Melbourne—for
Jewett's part, probably,
Alice Vernon, Howard Vernon’s daughter, made her
debut as Patience for his benefit at Wellington (N.Z.)
Opera House on May 23. She receives taffy from the
local press,
Sydney Musical Union held their first smoke-concert,
with President Simon in the chair, at City Catering Co.’s
rooms last week. Messrs. Donovan, Clancy, Callaghan,
Gross, Rodd, Chambers and others sang, but the occasion
was chiefly remarkable for its introduction of Austin T.
Craven, a silvery tenor, late of Brisbane and formerly of
Manchester, to a Sydney audience. By the way, the silly
“ Kissing-cup’s Race” and “Bill Adams” are getting
devilish stale, and we heard more than one whisper of
“ Teece, be still.” Messrs. Delany and Toms rivalled
Stanley in their manipulation of the" ironies.
London papers say that Esther Sandraz is Langtry’s
best performance, and that in her passionate love scenes
she is irresistible, but in her denunciatory moments
wanting in spontaneity. A London writer, who styles
the critics “a fat-headed lot,” says she plays Esther as
hardly any other woman on the stage could play it.
It is said that several of the original members of the
“Paul Jones” Melbourne production, including Aggie
Kelton, will be dropped out during the Sydney season. If
this be true, the management will blunder.
Alfred Carnie, the well-known journalist and critici
whose theatrical work on the Age, Sportsman, and
Herald during the past four years was very attractive,
died in Melbourne the other day of tubercular consump-
tion. His earlier journalistic experience was acquired in
Aberdeen, where he founded Bon Accord, a comic weeltly,
and in Glasgow, where he was dramatic editor of the
Herald. He was for a short time in South Africa, and
was a contributor to the Era for over 18 years. His
death is deeply regretted amid a wide circle of Press
friends and all the theatrical world in Melbourne. He
and Lunan came from Scotland almost together to the
same paper, and both are gone, Carnie was a little fel-
low of feminine delicacy. His “ Whisperings at the
Wings,” by Q., made a mark for unique interest, because
he was always buzzing at the wings, having the
entree behind the scenes everywhere. Ho did not so
much criticise as gather up all the gossip. Carnie was a
decent fellow, and popular among the clique to which he
belonged, but as a hanger-on to theatrical people, and a
chronicler of trivial tittle-tattle in a particularly puny
stylo he did his little best to pull down the business of
dramatic criticism—was the leading authority as to
the number of times that Charles Warner used to pick his
teeth, and would devote a paragraph to the enthralling
subject of how Billy Elton and himself had a glass of
stout—or rather two glasses of stout—together. Best his
soul!
K. B. Cox, the well-known Dick Cox, once went to
Barry Sullivan in Melbourne for an engagement in mid-
summer, Dick’s idea of himself being as a £2O-a-week-
man. Barry remarked that lie had to cut things fine, hut
if Mr. Cox could see his way to take f:i a week- - !
there was a long pause, broken by Barry Sullivan :
Warm, Mr. Cot?" Cox : “ Yes, too'blessed hot for
me altogether !” (Vanishes.)
Bennett, a useful actor under Barry Sullivan, at the
Melbourne Royal, 25 years ago, made an awful slip of the
tongue one night, in the play of “ King John.” He was
a Prince, and was called on to express his opinion, accord-
ing to the text, as to whether a Princess would marry
him, and he duly spoke the text with, “ She will. I see i't
in her heye.” The house roared.
, When speaking the epilogue to “As You Like It” at
St. James’, Mrs. Langtry said “ If I were a woman I would
kiss as many of you as had beards that pleased me,” a
manly voice from the orchestra stalls ejaculated “ Hear,
hear.” In Birmingham once, when Madame Modjeska
repeated the same lines, an occupant of the gallery called
out, “ Just step up ’ere, miss.”
Says Adelina Patti—“ I disagree with Mrs. Kendal upon
a great many points. Ido not know the lady, and it is a
long time since I have seen her play. Some of her
methods I cannot commend. She makes a trade-mark of
her goodness, and is singularly without womanly charity
in her speech about her sister-actresses.” Patti has since
put this down to a lying interviewer.
Phil. Greenwood, the distinguished-looking treasurer
of Melbourne Princess’, has moments of thought. He
was thus occupied before a lovely barmaid the other
night. “ Tuppence for your thoughts,” bargained Hebe.
Philip replied : “ You’re paid to serve drinks behind
this bar and not to buy thoughts.” She was silenced.
Vividly interesting is the new instalment of “Jefferson’s
Autobiography,” with his Sydney and Melbourne experi-
ences. Landing in Sydney, good old Tolano told him
“there wasn’t no hopening for Yankee Tractors, ’’-and per-
sisted in calling him Jeffries, llogers acted Lord Dun-
dreary with Jefferson in Sydney, where the engagement
was good, but it was in Melbourne that Jefferson took
such a tremendous hold as the comedian of the century.
Jefferson was the first to act the “Ticket-of-Leave Man”
in Hobart, with 300 odd ticket-of-leavers in the pit, before'
whom he quaked, but they applauded him enthusiasti-
cally.
Playing Laurent in “La Mascotte ” at Wellington.
Billy Elton _ was afforded an opportunity of gagging ba-
ttle squawking of a babe in the family-circle. Inclining
his ear and lifting up his finger for silence, he at length
said: “Listen to the voice of Nature!” and after a
further pause: “A little thing like that amuses me.”
This is the sort of inane gag that, coming from the lips
of a born humourist, makes people shriek.
Brown, the tragedian (nursing Montmorency’s little
hoy): “Ah, there’s money in this boy!” Little Mont-
morency; “I know there is. I swallowed threepence
yesterday."
J. C. Williamson all but concluded an engagement a
few years ago with Laurence Barrett, the American
tragedian, but he was choked off by W. E. Sheridan’s
failure, despite his fine Lear and Louis XI, Since then
Larry Barrett has made heaps of money touring with
Edwin Booth in the Western States ; but the proposed
match between Booth and Larry’s daughter seems to be
well off.
Melbourne Evening Standard has been spin*
ning moral cobwebs over the delayed execution
by electricity of the criminal William Kemmler,
at New York, the said Kemmler having become
insane by contemplating his long-deferred execu-
tion. The Standard thus gloats over Kemmler's
madness : —“ That a Higher Power [Gon, of course]
than the State has come'to the relief [?] of this
miserable man is a Providential circumstance.”
Disregarding the lameness of the argument that
“God’s act is a Providential circumstance,” we
have here ingeniously set down before us the
theorems 1, that madness is a providential cir-
cumstance when it chokes off death ; 2, that God
is the God of Madness; 3, that madness, if not
one of God's mercies, is at least one of His lesser
punishments. The Standard editor ought to go
right down on his knees at once and thank God,
* * #
The New York State, the leading province of the
Great Republic, instead of using electricity as a
means to extinguish the lives of criminals, has
done much greater good to their state, and rendered
much greater service to the human race, by at last
passing a Bill for the utter abolition of capital
punishments. The clock of the world moves on.
John Bull has so long laboured under the halluci-
nation that hanging prevented murder—that the
fear of the gallows was the one thing which stood
between the decent citizen and the bloodthirsty
assassin, that it will be long ere he abandons his
fetishes of slaughter and torture.
The Victorian Government has at last decided on
the release of Theodore Hansen, who was con-
demned in 1888 to four years imprisonment for
manslaughter—or what might rather have been
termed justifiable homicide. Hansen was a sailor
who was kicked and cuffed and assaulted by the
mate of his ship day after day, until at last, being
attacked with mo;e than usual ferocity he de-
fended himself with an axe. The mate was killed,
but if he had been spared Hansen would probably
have been killed instead. The jury found him
technically guilty, under the impression that a
few weeks imprisonment was the very utmost
penalty which could be inflicted by any judge who
was furnished with humanity and ordinary com-
prehension, and when the sentence was pro-
nounced more than one juryman plainly intimated
that if he had even dreamt of what would follow,
the judge might have died of old age on the bench
before any twelve sane men would have given him
a chance to inflict such a punishment. It is the
same old difficulty which turns up at every assize
throughout Australia. The jury, in bringing in a
verdict, feel that they are taking a leap in the
dark. On their decision the judge may sentence
the prisoner to ten years’ penal servitude or may
order him to be confined till the rising of the
Court, and in many cases it depends on the
judge’s liver which course he adopts. In America
the jury may, to a great extent, regulate the sen-
tence by returning a verdict of manslaughter in
the first, second, third, or fourth degree, but in
Australia the only option in a case of extenuating
circumstances is to add a recommendation to
mercy, which might as well be written out and
filed away in the stove for all the benefit the
prisoner receives from it.
There are now at least thirty Australian
newspapers which advocate the abolition of
capital punishment. The Cooktown Independent
is the latest. X
To rile the bile. At an unemployed meet-
ing a spruce, old fellow gets up waving a brand-
new black belltopper, and declares that “ Fellow
working-men! lam one of yourselves.” He
follows the unemployed everywhere, and thinks
he’s doing a great work, welding masses and
classes.


Buy Wolfe’s Schnapps by the bottle.
The Choicest Jewellery. Baums & Co., King-st. Arcade.
Use Batho’B Baking Powder.
Bona-Fide announcement. Highest cash price
gi.cn for all kinds of gent’s left off clothing.
Dress-suits for sale or hire. Letters promptly
attended to by QUITTENTON BROS., ill
Bussell street, MELBOURNE. (Nnc number,
m.)
If your liver troubles you lake Wolfe’s Schnapps.
Wolfe's Schnapps, the purest spirit procurable,
A BOON TO HUMANITY.
Tis food for young and food for old,
It gives new life and vital power,
There's no.lhtn- in the market, sold
Like I’Kttkt' s patent SKOw-wmif, Flour.
Chaulemont and Co,, photographers to tlt •
Governor, Koval Arc.r 1 -, have moderated their
charges foe photographs, with a view of meeting
every one. Cabinets now 15s. per dozen.
Use Tlatko's linking Powder.
You really ought to drink Wclfe’s Schnapps.
Woife’s Schnapps—the ladies appreciate it.
FOR LA GRIPPE (INFLUENZA)
And all colds and bronchial a flections the best
remedy is Bosisto’s Original Eucalyptus Oil In
Frier oils are bottled to resemble Bosisto’s.
Buyers should sea that they got Bosisto’s oil, with
registered 41 Parrot ” brand on yellow label across
the cork. Accept no other, and avoid disappoint-
ment.
Tbr Cfcoic r ?t ’c' cilcrv P.mjmp &■ Co., Kimr-st. Arcade.
An exhilarating cordial is Wolfe’s Schnapps.
Ladies’ Silver Watches, 85s. Dahms & Co., King-Street
\ ivadc.
Mind you get Wolfe’s Schnapps.
j
Watches and Jew ellery are like good wives—they ?r»
worth having.
Send for Illustrated Price List. Post Free
813 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
(Nearly opposite Railway Station).
Factories; Liverpool and London, Enoland.
€2 10s. English Lever, Two Years’Guaranteed
,t 3 IV. English Lever, “The Unequalled,” full cap,
14 English Lever, “ The Special,” compensated.
20/- The Unequalled Keyless Watch. 20/- '
Country Residents and Visitors to Sydney call or send
to A. SAUNDERS, 813 George Street (nearly opposite
Railway Station), SYDNEY.
Lawrence C Reade, a nephew of the
novelist, Charles Reade, has arrived in Melbourne
- -vr ’
from New Zealand. _
A recent religious meeting in Lngland was
announced for ladies only and clergymen; with
“No men admitted.”
After the Sydney Town-hall anti-local-
option meeting was over, asked what he thought
of the conduct of the teetotallers, Harry Bevieu
replied—“ Think of it! VV hy, that they were too
bally' sober to know what they were doing.
“The N.S.W. Minister for Agriculture
said yesterday that in every vineyard established
he saw a splendid inheritance for the next genera-
lion.’ How does he square this with the fact
that the Parkes crowd are going straight for the
teetotal vote?
In a London weekly of late date a writer
gives a description of life in Australia, and in de-
scribing his visit to a Sydney editor says ;
At my first call, I came to the palace-like house, the
ground’floor occupied by the printing-office. On the first
tloor, ainonj; other advertisements, 1 found a tablet in-
forming visitors that the editor cannot be spoken with
unless paid for his valuable time ; accordmgl} everybody,
without exception, is advised to buy a ticket of admission
at the door of the waiting-room-one hour costing 10s.,
half an hour 65., fifteen minutes 3s. Such were the con-
tents of this singular price current of time.
Next!
General Tu 11 oc h
writes to the Melbourne
Press in good, manly
stylo about the absurdity
of sending to England
money for the Balaclava
wrecks, and points out
there are lots of poor, old
Crimean victims in Mel-
bourne. The weary
months in the trenches,
he says, were more severe
than the 20 minutes of
the Balaclava charge. An
old Melbournite is ex-
humed who was drum-
mer-boy at Napoleon’s
funeral, St. Helena.
William O’Brien, the
Irish M.P., didn’t run
after his £4OOO a-year
wife as the Tory press
would insinuate. The
young lady’s mother,
"Madame Raffalovich, is
an ardent Home Ruler,
and it was she who first
called upon O’Brien with
an offer to set up a bronze
bust to the memory of
the late John Mandeville.
They say, moreover, that
“mamma” started ru-
mours of her daughter’s
engagement to the dash-
ing Irishman before he
had proposed.
Dr. Fitchett and
Tom M‘Ken z i e, two
travelling N.Z. politi-
cians, had a narrow
squeak recently at the
top of Mount Vesuvius.
Tom and the little Doc-
tor (of Laws) were sitting
on the edge of the vol-
cano, very much at their
ease, discussing their
chances at next general
(h'ctiun, when the old
crater, evidently resent-
ing the introduction of
politics in her vicinity,
gave a frightful groan
and gasp, and before you
could say “Holy Moses”
or “Great Scott” she
vomited a whole lot of
cinders, red - hot lava,
and boiled quartz about
the ears of the legislators.
They scooted. They had
heard of Tarawera.
“A Happy Ending,”
is the reportorial cant
as a heading for a case
in one of the suburban
courts. A young man
was brought down from
the bush by the police to
answer for his illegitimate
child, and squared up
on the old magisterial
formula, “Marry the
girl.” So they came into
court perfectly happy,
and, of course, with the
“crowing youngster,”
in journalistic parlance.
Suppose one called this
“Happy Ending” “A
Miserable Beginning ! ”
lu another case, some
time ago, a young
woman blankly refused
to marry her seducer,
saying all she wanted was
the maintenance of the
child. She could not,
she said, be happy with
the man who had de-
ceived her.
Riley Brothers, the working minors who
are selling their claim at Hill End for a big fortune,
bought the show for £l6 a few ago. Hill
End mining threatens to boom again, £5OOO having
been given for a share in the claim next to Riley’s,
Frank Weston, with the same old mou-
stache, lias turned up again in Melbourne. He
was reported as killed in Africa, or somewhere,
but has as many lives as Stanley. It was another
Frank Weston — Louise Pomeroy’s and Remenyi s
farmer agent—who went under.
A certain lady recently gave birth to- a
Ijttle daughter. During her illness the diminutive
son of a friend was sent daily to enquire after her
health. On one occasion, just before he started,
lie was found to be very dirty and untidy, and re-
ceived strict commands from his father to make
enquiries from the doorstep, and on no account to
take Ijis dirty boots beyond the threshold. He
went, delivered his message, and was asked to
“step inside,’’ which lie firmly declined to do. It
was raining, the servant persisted, the boy blushed
and stammered, and finally-not liking to give
the real reason—-he delivered himself as follows
“No, thank you. I’d rather wait here. You
know Mrs. Sidewing is very ill, and—-and—l
might catch it.”— Adelaide perjury.
\ ),,t of saints, nnbhift'able as book-can-
vassers, are trying to worry the Victorian Govern-
ment into stuffing the Bible into the State schools,
Their latest is that they only desire the Bible to
be read to those dear children who want to read
it. Not good enough, if the children want to read
the Bible, they’ll read it, if they have to steal it,
and miss the circus for it. Can’t the clerical party
frame a stouter lie than this ?
Thus a wicked London scribe :—“ Most of
us remember Mrs. Brown-Potter, of the pretty face
and the shoulders, who w*ent on the stage some
time back. She isn’t cured of it yet, though Lon
don didn’t appreciate, and New York wasn't as
enthusiastic as it might have been. I am, there-
fore, all the more surprised to hear that she and
Mr * C urly > Bellew are drawing crowded houses
. u t Air Pollow T
ia Mubomnt. Now, if I were Mr. Bellew 1
should stop where I was appreciated. 1 remember
once being rendered helpless by the radiant vision
of ‘ Curly ’in a boat at Sunbury. He was attired
«■ let- Neapolitan fisherman, with red caj) and—
THE POLITICAL SITUATION IN VICTORIA.
DUNCAN: “Ain't it sickening. Alfred? I reckoned upon three months of Federation talk, and now they have suddenly shut
up and left us without a bill completed.”
DEAKIN: “It docs look bad, Duncan, hut we must endeavour to fill up the vacuum with God Save the Queen.”
t V/V/V£-£ 5
/ T r O^>
N o < -
o v
'V-''
-
j
j
u N FjrU^ :L&J2 '
bangles’. Yes, bangles ! 1 forget whether he had
earrings, but 1 remember the bangles. He was a
thing of beauty, and quite eclipsed the lady who
was with him. Ho struck effective attitudes
whilst waiting in the lock, and then proceeded to
show us how gracefully he could punt. The sight
made a vivid impression on mo, and I never see or
hear of him without recalling it to mind.”
The awful mummery of celebrating the
mad King of Bavaria’s birthday took place at
Munich on April 27th. Proceedings opened w ith
a quantity of high-class prayer, and a lavish offer-
ing up of thanks to Heaven for having anointed a
King who throws his dinner at the Lord Chamber-
lain, and exhibits a royal determination not to
let himself be washed. Then followed two solid
hours of cannon firing, followed by a drawing up
of His Majesty’s troops in martial array. After
the Army had cheered a good deal, and shouted
“Iloch!” and wept for joy, the generals rode
around to mention that His Majesty would have
been deeply touched by their birthday congratula-
tions, only he was still suffering from the idea
that he was buried in the back garden. Where-
upon the loyal troops exclaimed “ Gut,” or some-
thing to that effect, and drank to the health of
hereditary insane monarchy in butts of lager
beer. King Otto was uncommonly queer all the
time. It was one of his very bad birthdays.
When the Prime Minister rolled up with a little
souvenir and an address on a golden salver, Otto
merely closed his eyes and asked to bo dug up
immediately, or he would miss the Resurrection.
After which he began to bite pieces off the Premier
and was promptly hustled into bed under an
impression that he was a new breed of alligator.
Dear Bulletin,— The “ Australian Natives”
of Collingwood are, I see, giving an entertainment
in aid of the survivors of the Balaclava charge.
Charity begins at home, and if the selfish land-
ocracy of Great Britain, which contains say 40
millions of people, choose to allow their old
soldiers to die in the gutter, surely that is not
Australia’s direct concern ? The fact of the matter
is that the members of the organisation calling
itself “ The Australian Natives ” adore blood and
slaughter and uniforms and titles. Gold lace and
gore are their gods. Thev haven t the wits to
appreciate the geniuses of their country, some of
them small geniuses no doubt, but still geniuses all
the same. They have a poet and don’t know him
to be one until someone tells them so some con-
siderable while after he is dead when they at
once proceed to make a frightful fuss over him
and howl like dingoes at his grave. Their leaders
arc the windbags of politics and society and with
them nothing is any good unless it comes from the
scrapping- ring, or the racing-track, or the foot-
ball-tield, or Hingland. We sec around us some
brilliant men whose misfortune it is that th°y
were born in other lands and who can hardly get
a living because their work is artistic and there-
fore unmarketable. Over their graves the great
dingo act will be performed in due course.—Yours,
Born in Australia.
A bland, harmless contemporary states
that the residents of Parramatta-road. Sydney,
wereprofoundly bored " by the discovery of a
dead infant in their street the other day. Wo
expect they were. The eis an awful want of
originality about that Sydney infant which seems
to belong to nobody that anybody ever heard of>
and which habitually comes along and dies on
the doorstep of somebody who never saw it
before, and who has no use for a dead infant.
Also there is a weary sameness about the corpse of
the man who was killed by a trafnear, especially
when we consider that he is always dead; and
there is something depressing and cheerless about
the habitual dead body that floats round in the
harbour, and we have also noticed a want of
humour and mental capacity about the woman
who has been kicked to death by her hus-
band. Other people may not have observed these
things, but they have struck us quite frequently.
Moreover we have had our attention drawn to a
lack of cheerfulness in persons who have taken
rough on rats, and when in the society of a man
who has fallen a distance of 800 feet and landed
on a hard surface we have occasionally suffered
from ennui. We don’t wonder then that these
suburban inhabitants felt bored at that dead
infant. Possibly if the father could be found and
some reasonable steps taken to make him feel
more profoundly bored than he felt in all his life
before, it might have relieved the monotony, and
lent a more gladsome aspect to things, and
brightened the horizon in a manner of speaking.
We read that “Be-
fore Mrs. Hammers’* y
married the Duke of
Maryborough she was
more than plump. She
filled out every crease and
wrinkle that escaped her
bodice-maker; her breath
was short, her step con-
siderably heavier than
the rustle of angels'
wings, and the slightest
exertion distressed her.
She consulted an adipose .
doctor, who bluntly in-
formed her that Lady
•fane ‘was shadowy by
Comparison to her possi-
bilities.’ Tliis revelation
horrified the pre 1t y
widow, who at once
pledged herself to carry
out minutely his direc-
tions. The treatment
began at once, and has
been religiously adhered
to ever since. Here are
some of the restrictions :
Nd a morsel of bread,
cake, rolls or past ry ;
no tea, coffee, chocolate,
or sweet wine ; no po-
tatoes, peas, rice, carrots,
turnips, macaroni, cheese,
butter, cream, custard,
jellies, or sweets ; not a
drop of ice-water; no
warm baths ; no flannel,
and only enough clothing
to keep her from taking
cold; no bedroom heat;
not a drop of any liquid
fool at meals. In place
of bread she had fruit, a
section of a pple or orange,
some fresh grapes, ber-
ries, cherries, or stewed
fruit being used where
i ruinarily one craves a
bit of bread or a draught
of water. Her diet was
limited to two meals a
day, breakfast at ten and
dinii'T at seven, with
the following bill-of fare
to select from*: Hare,
lean meats, game, and
poultry ; soft-boiled eggs,
sea foods, toast, lettuce,
spinach, celery, cresses,
and fruits. .She had half-
a-gallon of hot water to
drink every day, with
lemon-juice in it to take
away the flat taste. Cold
water was denied her,
and ales, frappes, cham-
pagne, and claret strictly
forbidden. She was even
forced to forego the
luxury of bathing in
water, in place of which
she had sponge and
vapour baths, every few
days she took a fast,
allowing the system to
consume the adip o s e
tissue. While no limit
was put upon the plea-
sure of driving or riding,
she was asked to select
the roughest, rockiest
roads, and to walk from
live to ten miles a day in
the open air. This prac-
tice of self-denial the
duchess lias persisted in
for the last two years,
and to-day she is perhaps
the handsomest woman
of her age in New York
society. She weighs
about 1401b5., her eyes are
bright, her complexion
is as clear and smooth as a school-girl’s, she has
the carriage of a cadet, and the health of a child
of Nature. She has also a husband who is a per-
fect pig.”


“ELECTRIC” SOAP
IS THE
Greatest Labour Saver
OF THE AGE.
The wash done in half the lime, ami
better, by i(f> use.
If ia i.eud of take Wolfo's Schnapps
Wolfe b SSL-!jn;ij>j»s—pupularity iuurcasoß yearly.
BUGGIES, BUCEBOARDS,
—AND—
VICTORIAS,
At MANUFACTURERS’ PRICES
Send for Catalogues and Prices to
THE E. B. WHEELER CO.,
365 Clarence Street, STDKEY.
Personal Items.
Sydney once had a Doctor Hogg ; now it
has a Doctor Pigg.
Joseph Symes complains that the soldiers
of the F alvation Army spit on his newspaper
runners
Sir Arthur Blyth, the dignified Agent-
G moral for S.A., was at one time an ironmonger’s
assistant.
Victor Hugo, we read, always stood when
writing. So does the married clerk with the
sh iddy pants.
A natural son of a British Royal personage
s now living at Rotorua, N.Z. His mother was a
very pretty half-caste.
A man may be able to moderate the Pres-
byterian body and yet not be able to moderate Ids
own. This conies from Now Zealand.
A Victoria Cross hero is starving in Mel-
bourne. Bless you, the ancient soldier paupers
are all over the world cursing Royalty in their
old age.
Nasmyth, the steam-hammer inventor,
died recently from bronchitis supervening on
dropsy. He desired that his body should be
cremated.
Rev. Canon Tucker, the outspoken cx-
I'resident of Charters Towers Republican Associa-
tion, is now in Sydney staying at the Motel
Metro pole,
J. H, Symon, the leading Adelaide at-
torney, is supposed to have the largest legal
practice in Australia. There are now five partners
in the firm.
A problem was put to us the other day
which we have not yet found time to publicly
answer—viz., the names of the two dirtiest men
m the N.S. W, Upper House.
There is a gentleman now doing business
as a broker (unier an assumed name)'in an Aus-
tralian city who knows a good deal about the
London West End scandals.
Boston University has now turned out
lady doctors. The system was begun bv
Elizabeth Blackwell, who fought the battle alone
and conquered her £lO,OOO a year.
Marie Corelli writes gushingly of Ouida in
a Loud »n magazine. Whereupon Edmund Yates
writes that Miss Corelli publishes novels which
arc not Ouida and water, but Ouida and onions.
Barman Knowles, of the Nineteenth
Cento RV, has reached the peak of bis ambition,
with-an article by His Majesty the King of Swe-
den. But he dare not publish one bv the Prince
of Wales.
Pastor Jefiem, the well-advertised, whom
v, ciie or yet knew t j sty a clever and original
thing, has got a good London billet, better than
Graham Berry’s, because safer. “ The schwindleis
schmall,” &c.
I lie three C.M.G.’s in the N.S.W. Legis-
lative Council hold different opinions on the liquor
question—C. J. Roberti, representing whisky ;
John Davies, cold water; and Burdett Smith,
whisky and water.
The old lady, recently deceased, who
owned the freehold of the Sydney Daily Tele-
graph offices and adjoining property in King-
street, is said to have left the bulk of 'her wealth
to the R.O. Church,
Alfred P. Warbrick, the well-known half-
caste footballer, brought to book for neglect and
desertion of his white lady-wife, pleads that he is
a Maori, and, therefore, not answerable to British
law in social matters.
Gov. Kintore has gone to Tasmania, ac-
companied by the ever-adoring Chief Justice Way.
Kintore has, since his arrival m S.A., done a sum
total of about eight months’ residence in S.A.,
and now he is off again.
Moody and Sankey have only just dissolved
partnership, through Sankey’s voice failing. There
was something invidious about Sankey taking a
royalty on harmonium sales, but Moody was
always the clean potato.
Michael Davitt is a hard, firm, strong-
looking man physically, black-bearded and grim
as the orthodox Italian bandit, but with a ten-
dency to suddenly water at the eyes and blub
right out over a moving tale of distress.
Lord Lothian, supposedly the next
Governor of N.S.W,, will, it appears, come to
Australia “chiefly on account of his health.” In
other words, he is to get something like £12,000 or
£14,000 a year in money and kind for going into
a sanatorium.
Said barrister F. L. Smythe once to Judge
Pohlman in court: “Your honor, a man who
could be so mean as to sue a helpless widow-
woman ought to be kicked to death by a jackass,
and I wish your Honor could appoint me now to
do the kicking.”
Bismarck is much annoyed because the
Emperor sent to inquire of his doctor whether ho
(B.) didn’t take too much —morphia. Morphia is
a good word, better even than chlorodyne, which
once stopped an Australian judge from catching
his morning train.
The blundering Home Secretary Matthews,
Q.C,, whose resignation is cabled, was long re-
tained in the English Cabinet to conciliate the
Catholic interest —just as Dan. O’Connor is ap-
parently kept in the Parkes Government as a
sop to the “ bhoys.”
Teller Thomas’ total defalcation at the
Bank of New Zealand amounted to £33,000. His
salary was £lB5 a year, and he is said to have
operated in raining ventures to the extent of
£190,000. He gob six months’ gaol only, and it is
possible that some of the money is “ planted.”
The headmaster of Maclean (N.S.W.)
Public School lias been presented with an address
—the joint production of teachers and pupils
which contained 32 pronouns in the three short sen-
tences of which it was composed. Clearly the re-
sult of Premier Parkes having used 137 “ I’s ” in
one little speech.
Captain “Calliope” Kane has been ap-
pointed to the command of the Inflexible, a big
British ironclad. She is called the Inflexible
because when they want her to go ahead she re-
mains inflexible in her determination not to move
a darned inch. Likewise, her big guns are in-
flexible in their resolve to kill the ship’s own
gunners.
Win. O’Brien, M.P., has married Mdlle.
Raffalovioh (translator of his lately-published
book), the daughter of a Parisian Jewish banker.
The Irish Home Rule M.P. is a canny man and
always marries money if he doesn’t always marry
brains. The Redmonds—“ they're all right,” and
Just look at the trouble into which Deasy dropped
through his attempt to wed a Hunter River
heiress !
Sir Charles Lilley, C.J., will have com-
pleted the statutory seventeen years on the judicial
bench next year, when—it is no longer a secret-
lie will retire on pension and re-enter the political
arena. Excepting the case of Sir George Grey in
New Zealand, who took to politics militant after
being ever so many times Governor, the example
of the hale old Queensland veteran is unique in
Australasia.
>Sir F. Roberts is the coming English
Adjutant-General, vice Woiseley, the budding Re-
publican. Roberts and Woiseley don’t agree, and
when Roberts was in London making a speech
at a Mansion House banquet, he slaughtered the
syterns of short service, Wolseley’s invention, and
the latter walked out of the building. Roberts is a
Tory everyway, and will sew the frogs on Con-
naught’s uniform.
Twisdcu Hodges, one of Melbourne's old
identities 40 years ago, was once a member of the
“HE HADN’T IT.”
Patient (with terrified air): “Doctor, does this ’ere Influenzee start with a dry
corf and sneezin’? ”
DOCRTOR (on for a scare): “Yes, certainly.”
PATIENT: “And ’eadhache, an’ noises in the ears, an’ funny thoughts, an’
weariness?”
DOCTOR : “Yes, those are all sure symptoms— you’ve evidently caught it badly.”
PAtIENT: “ No, but I guess my blawsted offside poler ’as it awful bad.”
House of Commons, they say, and also that he
snuffed candles in the first Melbourne theatre.
However, he rose again—to own the Union Hotel,
Bourke-street, afterwards Tilke’s and Charley
Wright’s. He gave one of the first handicap
prizes on the Melbourne racecourse, when the han-
dicap was almost unknown.
The cablegraphist tells us that Sir Redvers
Buller is appointed to a high command ; but there
has never been one word of apology for a cable
message a few months ago that the same Redvers
Buller was killed by a street accident. It didn’t
matter, you know, any more than the wrong
Edmund Lloyd, or the wholly imaginary bom-
bardment of Dulcigno, which once startled Aus-
tralia, or the death of Sammy Jones, who still
lives and kicks. Sufficient for the day is the
cablegram thereof.
The British Admiral, Sir Provo Wallis,
now in his hundredth year, was second lieutenant
of the Shannon in her memorable fight with the
Chesapeake off Boston in 1813. Captain Broke
being severely wounded and others killed, the
command of the Shannon and its prize devolved
on Wallis, (lieu aged 23—and now styled the
“ Father of the Fleet.” Though the oldest man in
the British navy, Wallis is, however, by no means
the oldest officer, for Sir Lewis Jones, born in ’OS,
went to sea eight years prior to the Admiral join-
ing the navy.
“ Consider the Lilleys uow they grow!’’
There is the good old parent plant, Sir Charles,
Chief Justice of Queensland. Next comes Edwin,
the barrister, a worthy chip of the old block.
Then there are Charles, junr., and Harold,
solicitors both ; and a fourth son has just passed
the solicitors’ final, exam. ; a fifth serving his
articles, and even a sixth preparing to enter on
the same—and yet Salomons, Q.C., in all hie
glory does not wear a more erudite wig than the
eldest of those.
Should Gladstone die or resign, Harcourt
will lead the Commons when the Liberals come in.
Either Rosebery or Spencer will be Premier.
London Punch has a cartoon of all the
European monarchs in a boat, and the German
Emperor rocking it so wildly that they yell out it
will upset. The Spanish Infant squeaks, too.
“ How yielding England was in Zanzibar,
when she had to do with Germany,” said Castelar,
the Spanish Republican recently ; “ how bold she
is to-day at Zanzibar, when her disputant is weak
but noble Portugal!”
The new rifle with which the German
army is now being armed is the third which has
been adopted by the peace-promoters at Berlin
since the summer of 1871, and each change has in-
volved an expenditure of £5,500,000.
A member of the N.S. W, Assembly in-
tends shortly to submit a Bill authorising the
destruction without compensation of all wine in
stock, and rendering the manufacture of wine a
criminal offence. How will the teetotallers vote ?
A Minister of Labour is asked for in Vic-
toria. Why not ? Let the unemployed question
be in the hands of a responsible Minister, with the
National Labour Exchange. Labour is nowhere
in any Cabinet, but the time is ripe for the plank
to be inserted.
Gillies lias for months held gathered in his
fist the portfolios of Premier, Treasurer, Mining
Minister, and Railway Minister, but has just cut
the work up a little. The common jibe is that
Dunky is a lazy man—merely because he is able to
do an immensity of work without any fuss.
It is rumoured that Hartington and Cham-
berlain are about to join the Tory Cabinet. As
for Hartington, the future Duke, he is there
already—but Chamberlain, the Radical, the De-
mocrat, the Republican ! Judas ! But he will be
toppled over and come down, yea, as Dagon.
Alfred Allen thinks that if the N.S.W.
electors had to sit in the Speaker’s gallery and
listen to the deluge of drivel they would “ become
alive to the necessity for sending here men who
would talk less and work more. ” That’s a fact.
But why does Alfred so strongly suggest his own
enforced retirement ?
Cunninghame Graham was the only mem-
ber of Parliament present at the Eight Hours’
Hyde Park demonstration !—one out of six hun-
dred and seventy! The people of Australia have not
the faintest glimmering of an idea as to the utter
want of sympathy on the part of the British
classes for the British masses.
Colonel Ives, an enthusiastic volunteer,
learning that Lord Wolmer, M.P. for his county
(Hampshire), gave a vote adverse to the unpaid
army, thus addressed him:—“The enormous dif-
ference between your views and mine ought to
teach you how rotten the system is of seven-year
parliaments. You no longer represent me!”
Bismarck, in his eulogy of the United
States, spoken before the German Reichstag, in
’B2, said : “ Because it is my deliberate judgment
that the prosperity of America is mainly due to
the system of Protective laws, I urge that Ger-
many has now reached that point where it is
necessary to imitate the tariff system of the
United States.”
French and German Socialists have been
distributing leaflets amid the soldiery. Where-
upon in effect the Broad Arrow, a London
military paper “Fancy any agitator telling the
British soldier not to fire on his fellow-citizens-*
men, women, and children—when ordered J” Well,
we do fancy it, in cold blood, with the memories
of the French Revolution.
Napoleon 1., while laying down the civil
code for the restoration and resuscitation of the
growth and prosperity of Franco, regulated its
order thus : “First, Agriculture, the soil, the first
basis of the Empire. Second, Industry, the com-
fort and happiness of the population. Thirdly,
Trade, the proper application of the surplus of
agriculture and industry. ” To-day France spends
£2,000,000 annually on agriculture alone.
Poor old ex-Governor Normanby, who
lately died, firmly believed that he was a sports-
man, and when in Victoria used to make occa-
sional country excursions ; on one of these trips
he was the guest of Finlay Bros, at Glenormiston.
These gentlemen got up a rabbit-shooting battue
into which the old lord entered with groat zest.
He had two breechloaders and a man to carry
cartridges and load for him. Every time a fern
moved his gun went up, and every time it went
up both barrels went off, generally together. He
spent 500 cartridges for 13 rabbits.
Tom Glassey, the Queensland workmen’s
representative, is, up to date, one of the straightest
democratic delegates Australia has ever seen, and
he should keep straight, for fame or time has no
other road to reward for him. Glassey went to
address his Blackstone constituents some weeks
ago, and the Conservatives of the place were
influential enough on the school-committee to talk
about refusing to open the schoolroom for his
meeting. Glassey advertised the hour and bor-
rowed a sledge-hammer. Then he told the school
secretary : “Door not open at 8 o’clock : in she
goes.” The door was wide open in good time.
In his Hyde Park speech John Burns
declared that the workers could never attain their
ends by voluntarily combination, and challenged
Bradlaugh or Broadhurst to meet him in the
Albert Hall, in the Agricultural Hall, or in Hyde
Park, to discuss the matter, when he would under-
take to carry, by a majority of 90 to 10, in an
audience of 200,000 people, a resolution in favour
of a labour day of eight hours. Now it is cabled
that the debate will take place between Brad-
laugh and Hyndmann ; Burns’ alleged “ backing-
out ” being probably due to Bradlaugh’s refusal to
comply with certain conditions as to place and
audience concerning which they were at Variance
when the mail left.
When both the members for Collingwood
and both the members for Eitzroy rallied round
Duncan Gillies on the recent vote of con-
fidence division it was generally assumed that the
patriots in question had something solid to go
upon. The general assumption hit the bull’s-eye
fair in the middle. A glaring feature of the new
V ietorian Railway Bill is the proposal to spend
Iralf-a-million apiece upon two new lines, from
Princes Bridge to Collingwood and Eitzroy re-
spectively. The two boroughs meet at the great
local centre of population and trade, viz., Smith-
street, one side of which is in Fitzroy, and the
other in Collingwood. Consequently, the entire
district could be amply provided for by one new
route, and the construction of two parallel lines
will be nothing else than an extravagant political
job.
To the Rescue.
W hen an article is brought forward and rdl its
3>atrons praise it, and allow that it possesses the
properties that the manufacturers claim for it;
one that possesses virtues and merits which are
universally acknowledged both by press and
public, such endorsement must really prove beyond
t he slightest shadow of a doubt the,intrinsic merit
of that article. The unparallelled success which
has attended the introduction of Clements Tonic
to suffering mankind and the universal praise
bestowed upon it by influential and well-known
persons in the community, are conclusive proofs
t hat this article is undoubtedly genuine. Clements
Tonic has done more good in the last two years
in Australia than all the other medicines put
together can over claim to have done, and there is
not a city, town, village or street but what there
;>re people resident in who are willing to testify to
the wonderful efficacy of this renowned remedy,
.Cor instance Mrs. Bowie, Ashton House, Newman-
street, Newtown, N.S.W., writes Hear Sir,—
1 laving been a sufferer for many years from In-
digestion and being treated by numerous doctors
without benefit, I had given up my case as nearly
hopeless when I was strongly advised to take a
course of Clements Tonic. Like thousands of
others I did not believe in advertised remedies,
but reluctantly consented. It is unnecessary to
describe the various painful and disagreeable
symptoms which the dyspeptic suffer, they are
only known to themselves. Before I had finished
one large bottle I felt almost a new woman, the
result cannot be described as anything less than
marvellous. I never intend in future to be with-
out Clements Tonic in the house and am only
too happy to recommend it at all times. Thomas
Garrett, Esq,, M.P., (late Minister for Lands,
N.S. W.,) says:—Dear Sir, —I have used Clements
Tonic with very great advantage. It is verv
stimulating and a powerful aid to appetite and
digestion. Sydney Cunningham, Esq., 70 Watkin-
street, Newtown, N.S.W., writes as follows:
Dear Sir,—Having been a long sufferer from Neu-
ralgia, which weakened me considerably, and
using various remedies without benefit, I was
induced to give Clements Tonic a trial and am
pleased to inform you that the result exceeded my
utmost expectations, and after taking five large
bottles I feel better than ever I did in my life
before. My wife and other members of our family
have used it with equal success, and I can strongly
recommend it to others suffering in a like manner,
and offer you this unsolicited testimonial to use as
you think tit. John Plummer Esq., North Wil-
loughby, N.S.W., says Dear Sir,—l may state
that Mrs. Plummer has frequently derived great
benefit from the use of Clements Tonic, and as a
result of her experience has much pleasure in
recommending it to all others. We shall be glad
to send full particulars of this remedy on receipt
of your address. Write fco Clements Tonic
Laboratories, Newtown, N.S.W., for complete
list of references. Clements Tonic can be obtained
of all Chemists and Storekeepers,
It is plain in N.S. Wales that sectarian
organisations, though far apart in their policies,
are alike in one thing—their influence and aims
are centred in providing billets for their people.


l)f Creed O r*
ioq To f Penile? oaf C
fjt fiook c. 0-f)
|/a;s e r
r vm
Tfe
i e Z
Z fy- S{
S 1o
.AllsA?a U o—.
W ' ' '
/juSJRALI/l -Foul! 1
rouUtaxfSo!
~ '
,h\>) 'CARK&^*
TESTinOH=' vL
TUfiJ) •
r /r
” f, / —
ZotdC *6?**> M
(ar/ycf/a-
p/}/? //^fa
/’ortjfe/' /ou j
/fa/ear/'
// ;■ I "/
neli'ciato-'io- *r'‘ ' ■ n Seat (aria
Ceded to r .
d 3 /-pectdCermeu?
y/ts' op cas'-y
lt e boficervaij o)fo ..
I 7 e y^arrayatta Hotnesses 10
Clfar<£€,Ub}(Ai}o yore force ao -
fafefy
THE WEEK.


# 'V*
*****
,p/
$r
PrT r
' /y r/Vfi s ■y
l&e&if/js/f
P^/^Z/V^
so*
%,Y
THE HEROES OF THE “AGE.”
AGE (to Premier defendants): Bless you, you innocents, when I have provided for the Heroes of the Charge of Balaclava, I'll send round the hat for the Heroes of the Charge at Melbourne Police Court.”


The
Marvellous
18s. 6cl.
OPTIMUS
WATCHES
The Best, Cheapest and Most Accurate Timekeepers
ever produced.
Made especially to our order by one of the leading and
most celebrated manufacturers of Watches in Switzerland,
and experience has shown that no watch is better than a
well-made Swiss one.
Gilt movements, jewelled in six holes, keyless (10 turns
to wind), enamel dials, crystal faces, well made, splendidly
finished, nickel cases that will wear excellently; in fact,
real good-looking, handsome little watches, and magnifi-
cent timekeepers.
Twelve months’ guarantee forwarded with every one.
Send P. 0.0. for 19s. 6d. (Is. postage), and have one
forwarded by post. If not in every way satisfactory after
a week money willingly refunded.
Only to be obtained from
FROST <sc SHIPHAM.
(Spectacle Makers, Opticians & Electricians,
174 & 587 George Street. Sydney.
The SYDNEY DEPOSIT BANK.
90 -KING STREET-90
Established 1885.
Agencies in London and throughout Australia.
Overdrafts granted against Deposit of Deeds,
and all the usual banking business transacted.
The following are the Kates of Interest allowed
for Fixed Deposits:—
3 Years
12 Months
6 Months
3 Months
9A per cent.
8 A per cent.
7 A per cent.
5| per cent.
5 per cent, allowed on daily balance of current account.
For the past Four (4) Years a Bonus of One peu
Cent, has been paid in addition to the above rates.
This is the first and only Bank in the Colonies
which divides its profits with its depositors.
Communications from tho country will be
promptly attended to.
T. S. RICHARDSON.
General Manaser.
W. H. PALING & COMPANY, LIMITED,
356 George Street,
HAVE Jttrt Opened a Magnificent Lot of Wew Piaxioa from the celebrated Makers, Steinway, Erard, Uehel, Fenrich, Lipp, Ronisch, Elnthner, Collard,and others
.Also of the Wonderful Victor Pianos at £45 and 3n«tcy Organs. No such Variety or Value elsewhere for Cash or Terms.
Society
Governor Carington has decisively put his
foot down on the proposal to present a ladies’ tes-
timonial to Her Excellency on the occasion of her
departure from N.S.W. The interdict has been
variously interpreted, but to The Bulletin its
meaning is very plain indeed. The Baron, not
having the dash of a Sir Hercules, lias the wits to
play for safety every time. His Jubilee experi-
ences and the story of Lady Loch’s diamonds have
not been wasted upon him. Therefore he declines
presents.
# * #
As for Lady Carington, bless you, she
needs no reminder of her N.S. Wales worshippers.
She never did them any harm in her life, and yet
they have pumphandled her to such an extent
that she won't forget them for at least six months.
“And ’ow d’ye do, me lady ?”
# * 3*
Governor Carington finds that some of bis
most trusted male domestics are already begin-
ning to celebrate Christmas. In six months more
they will all be safely settled down as publicans.
» * #
With a large limpid tear in our left eye, a
choking sensation in the throat, and a general
aspect of everlasting sorrow, we rise to mention
that the Duchess of Fife has lost her first
baby before it was born, as you may say.
The British nation is the chief object of our
sympathy. In the first place the nation finds
itself cruelly drowsed out of another little prince
or princess—sex not mentioned in cablegram, so
probably unknown. In the next place, this unfor-
tunate result of marrying a royal girl to someone
out of her purple “ spere” is thoroughly dishearten-
ing. They have trier! it twice. Louise paired off
with Lome —no family at all. Then the other
Louise stoops to conquer Fife, and the baby dies.
The British nation is plainly shown to be not up
to royal marriages. The necessity for Batten bergs
is obvious.
* * *
The Countess of Hopetoun's reception, last
Thursday, was remarkable for the number of Mel-
bourne women who stayed away. This strange
falling-off from Government 'Ou-e was attributed
to the “inclement weather” —doubtless because '
the afternoon happened to be fine.
* # *
Lord and Lady Hopetoun now go about
Melbourne in the very plainest style, and indeed
the carriages they use are hardly up to the stin-
dard of tiiose of Toorakia. Everything indicates
an entire change of front, and a discovery that the
flunkeyism wouldn’t work. By the way, all Aus-
tralian Governors growl because Minister! go over
their heads to the Agent-General, without their
knowledge, wherefore the Governor is more and
more a puppet.
# # *
Canon Saumarez Smith, bishop-elect of
Sydney, will come to Australia as a widower, his
wife having unfortunately died last week. In the
interests of the gospel let us hope that the Bishop
will either remain celibate, or else, marry an Aus-
tralian lady who isn’t eternally wanting to go
“home” on the advice of an obliging doctor.
Saumahez the Single.
What jam for scores of Sydney beauties !
Yet what a cause for gentle strife,
To carry out his sacred duties
The Bishop comes without a wife,
In dear old Hingland he has tarried
Until he’ll have to leave unmarried.
His lady flock had never reckoned*
On such a sudden, sad affair ;
A storm of sighs to be “ the second”
Now agitate our social air,
And brightly blushes every spinster
Who hovers near the local minster.
“ Oh ! will he prove obese or slender,
Short or tall, or dark or blonde ?”
The maidens tough or young and tender,
Engage in sj>eculation fond ;
E’en humble girls, who wash a dish up,
Have dreams of being “ Mrs. Bishop. "
The dears have gloated 6n a Primate
Like Barry and his kind before-
But ne’er to this connubial climate
Has come a bishop-bachelor.
Through many veins the blood will tingle
Sent rushing by this prophet single.
Saumarez Smith ! a strange cognomen \
Of joy sublime it may foretell
That name may be a nuptial omen
For some thrice blessed Sydney belle :
When sorrow's load no more he carries
A Bishop wants a wife— so marries.
* * *
A preliminary meeting of some 20 women
(mostly ladies, of course), was recently held in
Sydney for the purpose of organising a league t
advocate Papa Parkes’ female franchise fad and
“ other benefits claimed for the sex.” The fran-
chise was the only blessing that was really dis-
cussed, however, and it was unanimously decided
that the members of the league should devote
themselves to “purification of public life by the
return to Parliament of sober, righteous, and re-
ligious representatives only.” We have no wish to
discourage the darlings by asking where they
will find their “sober, righteous and religious
politicians ; ” but this business recalls the story of
the man who went to a livery-stable proprietor
and said “ he wanted a staunch, spirited but quiet
horse that would pace well in the saddle, and trot
in single or double harness ; that would stand in
the street without hitching ; that would not be
afraid of the trams ; that a lady could ride ; that
a child could drive ; that was good for ten miles
an hour as a roadster ; and could dust the race-
track for a mile in 2min. lOsec. ; that c mid—”
“ For God’s sake, stop 1 ” shouted the stableman,
“ there ain’t no such horse in existence.” A sober
and pious politician is sure to be au old woman.
* # *
The “Central Club,” Wellington, N.Z.,
was a few years back started by some much-
perfumed civil servants, but through paucity of
members and of money the club doors gradually
widened until at last they fairly yawned. At last
several shopkeepers were admitted—and then the
chief city scavenger got in. 'J his aroused the ire
of those who re proud boast it is that they or.ee
belonged to aristocratic English society, and
one of the members, yclept “ The British Lion,”
took drastic measures to salve his injured feelings
and rebuke those members who had been untrue
to their family traditions.. Jo-Jo, the Russian
dog boy, was at the time on show at Wellington,
and the “British Lion” was so struck with his
amiability and intellectual appearance that be put
him down (described as “A Russian Tourist”)
Stewart
Vic*. 11 j
The "T w o octree-' o
a-i a visiting member. A meeting of the com-
mittee was at once summoned by the secretary to
consider the “British Lion’s ” nomination, which
was unanimously rejected as a direct contraven-
tion of Rule 19(17, which forbade the admission
into the club of dogs of any kind. 'I he offending
member, when called upon for an explanation, re-
plied that Jo-Jo’s father was a distinguished guest
in the household of the Czar, that JorJo himself
was an accomplished linguist and a great traveller,
and wound up an incisive epistle by informing the
committee that Jo-Jo was head and shoulders
over most members of the club, who, if they were
at home in Hingerland, would find appropriate
places in the society of street-shoeblacks.
* * *
Taranganba stone is likely tq Iw*3 a most
sensational trial crushing in the law-courts soon.
The respective opinions of a leading Sydney bar-
rister and of the first Queensland legal authority
have been taken in the matter. This piece of
news will deeply interest Mr. Robert Ross.
• # *
Modern Society, of 26th April, says that
the title of Lord Bertie, which may sound to the
profane like a familiar nickname invented by the
nymphs of the coulisses, does not, in truth, really
possess a more sound origin. It is a singular fact
that the Earl of Lindsey has no second title at all.
The earldom is in itself a sole survival of a batch
of titles which were held by the Dukes of
Ancaster and Kcsteven during the last century,
and to the haughty mind of a former Earl of
Lindsey it seemed intolerable that his eldest'son
should be mere Mr. Bertie, or even the Honourable
Bertie, when the eldest sons of all other Earls
were Lords or Viscounts at least. The result,
therefore, was that, by a bold stretch of audacity,
the power which is usually exercised by the
Queen was arrogated by the then Earl who prac-
tically invented out of the family name and con-
ferred on his eldest son the courtesy dignity of
Lord Bertie, which has been borne by the eldest
sons of the Earls of Lindsey ever since with as
much regularity as if it had been_ the result of
letters-patent issued by the Sovereign, instead of
their ancestor’s inventive genius merely.
* # *
Mary Anderson has “ gone to be mar-
ried. ’’—Shakespeare.
Fifty thousand pounds spent by the
Chinese Mission has resulted in the conversion of
one soul —a Chinese billiard-marker. Let us
therefore support the Chinese Mission, for which
m ney is now being drummed up in Australia.
* * #
Unique In Memoriam verse from a Laun-
ceston (Tas.) paper:—
I’m lonely since my mother died,
Though friends and kindred gather near;
I cannot check the rising sick,
Or stay the silent heartfelt tear.
* * *
Re disaffection in the Foorce, a Melbourne
paper observes : “ Considering the work a police-
man has to do, and the characters with whom he
comes in contact, he should be a married man.”
That’s true enough in a measure. A frill sergeant
who has entered the married state should be better
able to minister to bevies of damsels in distress, at
2 a. m.—more proof against the insidious wiles of
amorous cooks —than the bachelor bobby. He
ought to be more to be depended upon (as this
Melbourne paper suggests) after giving “ hostages
to the State, in the persons of his wife and chil-
dren.” But he isn’t. There seems to be wonder-
fully little virtue in the nuptial knot, as far as
regards the male bird. There are people who go
so far as to assert that matrimony makes them
less reliable than before, especially policemen. We
can never forget the roar of assent that used to
greet a charming music-hall angel, as she danced
around the London Pavilion stage warbling “ O !
the married men are best. ”
# # #
The hard-hearted yokels of Shepparton
(Vic.) baited a Mormon elder on the last day of
May. He had deeply impressed the local femi-
nines by means of his hair-dye and persuasive
arguments, and had apparently succeeded in rope-
ing in some of the choicest articles of maidenkind;
but not being content with a sufficiency, he cast a
bland and convincing smile on several young and
blushing matrons. Consequently, when Sheppar-
ton caught him just outside town it plied him with
hastily-plucked saplings and fence-rails and barbed
wire, and with iron-shod boots, until he squirmed
in the dust and shed tears and teeth, and he was
finally dumped down a moss-grown well and
hauled up again in a state of hideous dilapi-
dation, while the weeping wives looked on and
then sadly retraced their steps to the bleak and
soulless home of monogamy.
* # *
The N. S. W. Permanent Mounted Infantry,
the smartest-looking little knot of troopers in the
land of the cornstalk, now numbers 32 of all ranks.
During the year six troopers have been discharged
as worthless characters and five have deserted !
# # *
The London tailors already issue fashion-
plates of ladies’ riding-habits on the masculine
plan of sitting the saddle 1 Miss Bird, Miss
Gumming and other travellers started this after
their experiences in Honolulu and Japan. No
more hanging ladies on hat-pegs,
* * *
At that meeting in Melbourne Town Hall,
about the Balaclava survivors, the promoters,
fearing a fiasco, only assembled in the supper-
room, with a snug and select gathering of 150,
before whom Gov. Hopetoun (who has £50,000 a
year) began, with gushing enthusiasm, to rave
about his gratitude to the Balaclava warriors.
*■ # #
A sorter detected in the act of stealing
money-letters from Sydney Post-office pleaded for
mercy on account of his wife and child : “I took
the money in order to make up enough to send my
sick wife to the Mountains.” There may be a
whole tragedy in this. On the passage from Mel-
bourne, recently, F. J. White, a chemist’s assist-
ant, deliberately jumped overboard from the
steamship Burwah. He was to have been married
to a young Sandhurst lady, but as an expected re-
mittance did not arrive the wedding was post-
poned, and when on the day finally fixed for it the
money had not come the sensitive White took
refuge in flight—and suicide. Such might be the
other side of the tragedy entitled : “ The Letter
which never Came.” After White’s death a
registered letter containing £3OO was delivered at
his address.
* # #
Mrs. Amelia Barr writes forcibly in last
North American Review on “Conversational
Immoralities,” contending that the talk among
unmarried ladies is far too free. The Divorce
Court is freely canvassed and there is no thought
of the Dorcas Society.
# =& s%
Correspondents of the English Press still
write about men wearing wedding-rings. In Ger-
many it is quite a regular custom for both men
and women to wear engaged rings on the left
hand, and when they are married the clergyman
transfers the rings to their right hands. But
then the men kiss each other in Germany !
* * *
A fashionable departed Melbourne bar-
maid exhumed-- for the usual reason.
s * ■»
Football receipts are to be taxed in Mel-
bourne for the charities—so public opinion seems
to trend.
# * *
It has been calmly proposed to devote the
pr ceeds of the forthcoming Bourke flood ball, in
Sydney Exhibition Building, to the Balaclava
\lund !
# * *
Lavender Bay (Sydney) was originally
called “ Hulk ” Bay from the fact that a convict
hulk was moored there in the good old days.
When convictism and hulks had had their day
and people built on the western slopes, the bay was
re-christened Lavender after the superintendent
of the aforesaid hulk.
# * *
More in sorrow than in anger The Bul-
letin wants to know the prevailing nationality of
the atoms that congregate on the side-walks and
block the roadway in Australian cities when the
vice-regal carriage stops opposite a boot-shop
while the ladies’ maid steps inside with a long-
practised air of courtly grace to buy a pair of
copper-toed shoes for the last arrival.
« # #
Judge Harding, of Queensland, who is
ust now showing off his second wife to his Eng-
lish friends, recently made a little speech to some
gatherers at the Colonial Institute in London.
He says, says he : “I know no poverty in the
country (Queensland), Ido not think that, for
the last 15 years, I have been stopped in the street
and solicited for alms.” Granted, Mr. Justice
Harding. That proves nothing except that
poverty knows its marks. There is another
Queensland notability, Sir Arthur Palmer a
man often as gruff as a bear, but with a heart
as soft as he pretends it is hard, and whose true
tale would be, if you could only get him to tell it,
that he can’t go down the street without being
solicited for help. Bishop Barry once publicly
said in Australia: “ I never give money in the
street.” This was one enunciation of the hard
and cheerless British social rule as against the
spontaneous and brotherly humanitarianism of our
country, where stone-broke men carry swags.
A Lament.
O ! warble (the tune of a dirge in)
This falling away of a fairy—
The proud majestorial virgin,
Whom ’Murrikins worshipped as “ Mary.”
She scorned to be giddy or flirty
With Bertie,
For kisses she cared not a thankee ;
But when the chill goddess was thirty
She took to her bosom a Yankee.
Boys sent her big bunches of blossom,
The finest and latest in fashion—
Away she would haughtily toss ’em,
Nor heeded their pleadings of passion.
They wept to find Mary so cruel —
The jewel—
So steadfast to Moody and Sankey,
And now she is giving them gruel
By going to church with a Yankee.
No longer they twang the guitar-o
Right under the window of Mary—
Of waking the jealous Navarro
The chappies had better be chary ;
His chest is the one she has chosen
To doze on
(No doubt he has gold at the bank, eh)
Yes, hard as she used to be frozen,
Sweet Mary has married a Yankee.


Wolfe’s Schnapps has no rival.
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
Land at Perth, W.A., the best Investment
Plans from Intercolonial Investment Co., Ltd.
U 6 Bathurst-street, Sydney.
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
According to French statistics present
stocks of champagne equal about 109,575,750
bottles, or quite five years’ consumption,
Wolfe’s Schnapps—for the liver and kidneys.
Formerly it was the custom in the Bel
gian Parliment to supply the members wit!
brandy and water ad. lib.
If out of sorts try Wolfe’s Schnapps,
The 8. A. Parliament thinks about apply-
ing the eight-hours system to the Civil Service.
Wolfe’s Schnapps—lt is grand.
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
• nsist upon having Wolfe’s Schnapps.
If asked to drink, call for Wolfe’s Schnapps.
IMMENSE EAT WOMAN.
At Mildura, Victoria, the other day, a woman
was seen to step off the scale weighing 413 pounds,
and she was raised without irrigation. A long,
pinchback skeleton, raising his hat, said “Pardon
me, madam, but where did you get that fat?”
“Not from irrigation,” she replied, “but from
drinking that famous St. Louis Lager Boor, the
purest beer in the world.”
Use BATHO’s Baking Powder,
Reliable Watch Repairs. Daiims & Co., King-st; Arcade.
CONSUMPTION
BRONCHITIS
SCROFULA
HOBEBTSON’S \\ ll ISK V. £2OO raiZES.
ClVi:\ A WAV IN Till': COIiOMKS
,\s koMjOws :
10 of A 3 cadi, —5 A2 S ami 70 Al,
Pamphlets from the Agents, ALLT & CO., L iMa ±t e ci, CHARLOTTE PLACE, SYDNEY
w
Haw
COUBHORCOLD
Threat Affection
Wasting of Flesh
Or any Disease where the Throat and lungs
are Inflamed, Inch of Strength or Nerve
Jflowcr. you can be Melieved and Cured by
SCOTT’S
EMULSION
OF
PURE COD LIVER OIL
With Hypophosphltes.
Palatable as iV!ilk.
Ask for Scott’s Emulsion, and let no ex*
plana f ion or solicitation induce you to accept
a substitute.
Sold by all Chemists.
SCOTT & BOWNE, New York.
The Reporters’ Association movement is
to blossom forthwith into an Australasian Re-
porters’ Association, each colony having a branch.
Adelaide is the latest recruit, with some 20 mem-
bers at starting, and Brisbane is taking pre-
liminary steps.
* =» *
Melbourne Charities Commission adjourns
for lunch to one hotel and packs the reporters off
to a free feed at an inferior establishment. But
the reporters never go there, and the Commission,
it is said, is regularly “got at” for press lunches
that are never eaten.
* * *
Why is an Englishman like a carpet ?
Because he never knows when he’s beaten. This
preposterous conundrum is thrown off in the in-
terests of Imperial Federation and the dear old
Mother Country.
# # *
A Melbourne lady lias been going for the
partner of her joys and sorrows, with the bread-
knife, because “ Our Boys” got worsted at Not-
tingham. Hubby is a Britisher, and he married a
bouncing Australian girl without comprehending
that she would take it out of beastly insular pre-
judice every time Murdoch made a “duck.”
# * *
A Japanese observer defines billiards as
“a game where two men push balls about with a
stick, and while one of them says ‘ blast it ’ the
other says ‘hard lines. ’” Not to be behind this
sarcastic beathen ? we would describe sculling as a
system under which a man shoves a boat along for
a year, and then dies and leaves his old father to
go broke paying for a funeral he didn’t order.
Also politics is an occupation which consists of
one man being unable to pronounce the letter “ h ”
while the other one stands out in the refreshment-
room and has the hiccough owing to incautiously
drinking some cold water, after which they both
move a loyal address to the Governor.
* # #
A gentleman in Ceylon has sued for a
divorce on various grounds, one of them being
that his wife treated him with derision and
“ coughed sarcastically ” every time he approached
her. The lady, on her part, filed a counter peti-
tion on the ground that her husband had written
a letter to a young female, in which he sent her
80,000,000 kisses, to go on with, as it were, and
had also entered into an agreement with the afore-
said female that they were to think of each other
every night at nine o’clock sharp. The Court re-
solved that he wasn’t allowed to think of a female
at nine, and granted the petition accordingly.
# # *
As a rule, when an imposing burglary
takes place anywhere, the victim, in giving his
report- of the case, is careful to state that the
invader only secured a few small articles, and
entirely overlooked £2OO in notes, which was
deposited in the top right-hand drawer of the old
desk in the bedroom, or something of the sort. It
is pleasant to him to think of that law-breaker
reading the narrative in his retreat, and cursing
and gritting his teeth together over his mistake.
There is a joy in aggravating the degraded
criminal, and as he does it the plundered house-
holder swells with pride till he feels as if he were
10ft. high and weighed as much as a horse. But
the scheme doesn’t always work. A New Zealand
man who was burgled lately, published the cus-
tom n-y whoop about the plunder which the
burglar hadn’t found, and that sinful man came
back next night and confiscated the rest. This is
a heartless world.
* * *
The committee of a Caledonian Society
allowed the competitors at their recent sports to
take the value of their prizes in trophies of their
own selection. One champion selected a meer-
schaum pipe, another a cradle, and a third a
perambulator; but the item which created the
most discussion was a tailor's bill of ten years’
standing, for trousers. It passed, however, and
thus was afforded another illustration of how
breeks may be placed on the Highlander.
The Daily Northern Argus satirises
Judge Miller, who had lately convicted before
him a forger (for a small amount) and a bigamist.
To the forger he gave three years, and to the
bigamist two.
# # *
A new social terror has been added to
Sydney—male detectives in women’s attire. One
such wolf in sheep's clothing effectually raided a
Surry Hills establishment the other week, with
what result will appear later on in the Divorce
Court,
# « #
A scene of violence occurred last week at
the entrance of Sydney Domain. The wife of a
well-known tradesman was driving with her chil-
dren when a cab dashed by containing her better
half accompanied by a generous-chested divinity
with golden hair. A row ensued, and the injured
lady succeeded in proving that neither “ the cat’s ”
golden hair nor her figure was quite her own.
A bitter drop in Bismarck’s cup isCapvivi’s
successful negotiation of the cession of Heligoland.
All through his career the Iren Chancellor worked
to secure this properly German isle commanding
the Elbe mouth. The absolute secresy with which
this transfer of Heligoland was effected leads one
to ask whether the People do really rule.
Henry Sampson caustically enquires—
“ What should we know now of the Right Hon.
H. Chaplin, if Hermit had never been the winner
of the Derby ?” That’s a legitimate rub for the
pompous, muddle-headed Tory in question, yet
his notoriety compares favourably with that of
many others whose names are kept green by
journalism. What should we know of Benzon if
he hadn’t been a “juggins,” or of the Duke of
Marlborough if he hadn’t kicked his wife?
“Guess, reader,” wrote Robert Southey, “where
I once saw a full-sized figure of Fame, erect, tip-
toe, in the act of springing to take flight and soar
aloft, her neck extended, her head raised, the
trumpet at her lips, and her cheeks inflated, as if
about to send forth a blast which the whole city
of London was to hear. It was in the Borough-
road, placed above a shop-board, which announced
that Mr. Somebody Sited up water-closets upon
a new principle. But it would be well for man-
kind if Fame were never employed in trumpeting
anything worse.”
At Adelaide a few days ago, Frank Sawyer
—whose reputation was blasted at the very be-
ginning of the trial by the police reporting him
as a man with two aliases —was sentenced to two
years’ imprisonment, aggravated by stone-breaking
and other hard exertion, for stealing £2600 in
notes. A broker’s clerk, who was about to pay
this money into the bank, had laid it down on the
counter for a moment, and the next moment it
wasn’t there. He couldn’t recognise Sawyer as
the man who took it; in fact, he didn’t recollect
THE NEW PRIMATE’S ARRIVAL
ever meeting that person in all his life before.
None of the money was found on Sawyer either,
and nobody had ever seen it in his possession.
The evidence set forth, however, that Sawyer had
paid several large sums into the Union Bank, and
though he certainly didn’t pay in any of the
broker’s lost notes it was pointed out that the
police couldn’t find out that he had acquired the
money in an honest f a shion. Considering how very
few things the police ever do find out, and
also considering that they would have broken
their case into little bits if they had found it out,
this doesn’t seem surprising. Further it was
alleged that the prisoner had had “mysterious
dealings,” whatever that may mean, with a man
named Phillips, who had also paid in large sums.
Phillips didn’t pay in any of the lost notes either,
nor were any of them ever found on him, and the
clerk who lost the money knew nothing about him ;
but the court had sat for 13 hours and the jury
was dead tired, and Sawyer was a man with two
aliases and one previous conviction, and when he
had stood in the dock till he was half asleep and
his collar had got soiled and his hair ruffled, he
looked like a bad character, and seemed in the
uncertain light as if he might have stolen £2600, or
even more, and so the twelve men in the box woke
up for a moment and found him guilty, and he is
now doing two years, as already mentioned. This
s a solemn warning to anybody with three names
,vho pays money into a bank.
A small legal romance, in which a female
with a wild, dishevelled air wanted to get her
rights, and, failing in that, raised an action to
iecide whether the other party was any better
than he ought to be, was decided the other day at
Adelaide. The case related chiefly to the doings!
of two aged ladies with a large fortune, and a: fear-
ful capacity for drink who ornamented the city of!
the saints some few years ago, but who Mve since
retired into the seclusion of the tomb, where their
sorrowing friends have inscribed a few evasive
ffiservatiohs above their dust in order to create an
oppression that they were not so drunk as was
gen-'rally supposed. They were both Roman
Catholics, and a local ecclesiastic induced them to
take up their residence in a religious institution in
(hi hope that they might get sober and repent.
As a natural consequence, there were riotous
times in that house of holy calm and pious medi-
tat on. Bottles of mysterious liquors arrived
mysteriously over the wall, and under their influ-
enoe the two elderly penitents would make profane
observations about the apostle who was sassed by
a fowl 1800 years ago, and would offer uncalled-for
criticisms about martyrs who were skinned m
i i ii*' ,i i i , i [m.. - T
rem To ages to enable them to keep cool. Iney
even wanted the sisterhood to come out and shake
for drinks at an adjacent hotel now and then,
and they looked with the eye of derision on
the holy relics, and made themselves otherwise
obnoxious. For many weeks the sisters bore their
misery in silerne, but when at last an impression
begui to gain ground that it was t\cy who tooted
unholy jangle at midnight s solemn nour they rose
and indignantly ejected the two daughters of sin,
and had the empty bo ties removed out of the
sanctuary by contract. There was a good deal of
strong language at the gate of the institution that
day and when the ejected ladies had done throw-
mg brick-* and cats into the tranquil retreat they
tore up the will they had made in favour of the
Church, and left their money to a femaks relative
and went to finish their days at the home of the
legatee. Here life flowed on peacefully and
happily for some time. Now and then the two
visitors would follow their hostess round in a
hurried manner with a chair leg, and occasionally
when in an irresponsible condition, they would
drop hints which seemed to imply that her dead
body would ultimately be discovered among the
coals: and at other times they would insist on
B*. ’ . ,v , . ■>
Sitting in the drawing-room when visitors were
present, on which occasions they would sit up
straight and gaze pensively at the strangers, and
interject entirely irrelevant rera arks such as “Fish!”
or “0 Lord !”which see red to have no bearing
on the case, and again they were addicted to sing-
ing comic-songs on the doorstep or embracing the
surprised policeman as he went by; but otherwise
everything went reasonably well. But, finally,
one of the pair died, and at the last moment she
left her money to the other one, and bequeathed
toher hostess nothing but her memory; and the
survivor took the money and went liiad on the
premises in a way that threatened to lift the roof
off and leave not a single unbroken window in the
whole street. It became necessary to remove her
to an asylum, and there she recovered sufficiently
to leave the whole fortune to the doctor in charge,
after which act she also died and went to bang
things about in a better land. And then the dis-
inherited relative appealed to the law to see if she
could get some compensation for the way in which
two dissipated females had made her life a burden,
and the law drew up a decision weighing 51bs., in
which it set forth in an exhaustive manner that
she couldn’t, and also offered some profound ob-
servations on the, subject of costs. Which un-
satisfactory result contains a valuable moral lesson
on the unreliability of intoxicated relatives, and
the inherent treachery of insane old women with
money, whether regarded in an ornamental ca-
pacity or viewed as a source of revenue.
The Age, which has reasons for being
candid and honest on the subject of Victoria’s
Premier (who isn’t the Premier Building Associa-
tion) affirms that “ a long immunity from danger
has made Mr. Gillies daring ; but it does not
seem to have given him the courage to blush.
Writes the editor of the Jewish Society
in advocating the amalgamation of the Jewish
and Gentile Sabbaths ;
If we have found it convenient to forget all about
burnt-offerings, or we have found the frizzling of goats
dissonant with our tastes and those of the people around
us, surely it is not impossible to bring other portions of
our laws into conformity with modern fashion.
Health is impossible when the blood is impure,
thick, and sluggish, or when it is thin and im-
poverished. Such conditions give rise to boils,
pimples, and other disorders. Ayer's Sarsaparilla
purifies and vitalizes the blood.
VICTORIA.
Her name’s Victoria —fitting ’tis, I ween,
To name a snobbish country from a Queen ;
She’s fitly named, so let “ Victoria ” Stand,
But if ’tis changed, then call her Grovel-land
In the Moonlight.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
“ Come closer, lay your head upon my shoulder—
There, now, I feel the throbbing of your
heart. ”
(The pretty creature did as Charley told her,
And put a lot of fervour in the part.)
“ Ah ! Charley, but I don't believe you mean it;
You’ve said it to a dozen girls before.”
(The pale moon so many times has seen it,
And knows that he will see it many more.)
“ Around my loaist— don’t be a little stupid—
I’ll i/o if you object to being squeezed.”
(The maiden had been badly hit by Cupid,
So placed her wreathing arms as Charley
pleased.)
“ Upon my word ! I call you very cheeky—
Indeed, I think I really owjkt to care.”
(The pale moon now felt a little sneaky,
As placidly he pfyed upon the pair.)
“ I love you—as I never dreamed of loving —
You’d make me, pet, as happy as a king.”
(The damsel’s nervous hand he was ungloving,
Ere fixing up her finger with a ring.)
“ Oh ! no, the very thought your Bi die frightens
I wouldn’t dare t > run away from Pa.”
(The pa'e moon is used to hearing white ’uns,
And knows what little fibbers Birdies are.)
“ My queen ! you make me happiest of mortals ;
Expect me at the dear old trysting place.”
(They entered, for a moment, Heaven’s portals,
Close clinging in a passionate embrace),
“ Good night ! my own, my husband, till to
morrow :
The witness will be Agatha, of course.”
(The pale moon he winked his eye in sorrow,
And murmured “courtship, marriage, and—
divorce.’)
EDMUND FISHER.
UNBLUSHING CHEEK.
They can make him snort and snuffle,
They can almost make him sob,
They can make him double-shuffle
When he’s cornered on a job,
They can make him joke at dinners,
’Neath the influence of “ lush
But his smartest fellow sinners
Never made old Gillies blush.
They may twit the worthy creature
With his arrogance or guile,
Till he puckers up each feature
In that awful horrid smile ;
They have seen him half-demented
By the force of “ loyal ” gush—
But the man is not invented
Who can make old Gillies blush.
They can scoff at his transgressions
Till they raise his scanty hair,
And he has to use expressions
Which are irver used in prayer ;
Tuough their Opposition chatter
He may vainly try to hush,
They can touch upon no matter
That will make old Gillies blush.
Th y may chaff about his “ pea-ion ”*
For the Hebesof the pub.,
They may vex him with the mention
Of his doings at the club,
They may talk of tramway dealings
(Which of money made him flush)
But they can’t hurt Duncan’s feelings
Quite enough to make him blush.
■ * “ I admit that I had a pension for Joseph, myself,”
Says Mrs. Slipslop, in “ Joseph’s Sweetheart.”


The original genuine article —Wolfe’s Schnapps.
7
chnapps should be in every house.
Applications are invited from g entlk
MEN competent to undertake EDITOR
SHIP of The Australian Republican, Charters
Towers. Applicants must state terms and enclose
references. lI Y. HUBBARD, Secretary, The
Australian Republican, Charters Towers.
"VT OTICE.—W. BUSH ELL is not authorised
Xs to represent The Bulletin in any way.
JAPAN TRADING COMPANY
I!>1 mitKMF, STKKKT.
(Near King .Street).
NOIHE BORIS Manager.
Wholesale Warehousemen of Japan Products
—AND—
Exp«r*»rs of Colonial Prod iicllon*.
SPECIALITIES ;
Japan Rice. Silks, Silk Handkerchiefs, Silk Piece
Goods. Bamlxto Wares, Mattings, Safety Matches,
Bruahware, Toilet Soaps, Fancy Goods.
IST’ Indents Executed at Lowest Prices.
Wolfe’s Schnapps will do you no harm.
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
j
ci
O
s
o
M
s
T
o
li
T
A^nts,
DELISSAk PHILLIPS
3s <s Barrack Street.
Amusements.
JfER MAJESTY’S THEATRE.
Lessee and Manager ... Mr. Geo. Rignold.
Doors open at 7 ; commencing 8. Carriages at 10.30.
IMMENSE SUCCESS ! IMMENSE SUCCESS !
of Dion Boucicault’s Celebrated Drama,
A. IF 1 T IE JR JD A. JR ZKZ-
“ OLD TOM,” Mr. WILLIAM TIIGNOLD.
Box Office at Theatre from 10 to 5. Prices as usual.
J. P. Macdonald, Acting-Manager.
ORITERION THEATRE.
Under the Management of Messrs. Brough and Boucicault
Acting Manager ... Mr. H. J. Magee.
IMMENSE SUCCESS ! IMMENSE SUCCESS !
and Last Eight Nights of the
BROUGH-BOUCICAULT COMEDY COMPANY
in
T. W. ROBERTSON’S 4-ACT COMEDY,
“SCHOOL.” “school.”
The Comcdij produced under the direction of
Mr, DION BOUCICAULT, Jrxu.
Prices—os, Ss, 2s and Is. Box Plan at Nicholson’s.
g O N D I AQUARIUM.
The Most Popular
PICNIC and PLEASURE GROUNDS of AUSTRALIA
The Famous Switchback Railway, conveying
Passengers from Cliff to Cliff daily.
Splendid Asphalt Open-Air Skating-Rink Free to Visitors.
Open Daily from 10 a.m to 10 p.m.
Admission, Is.; Children, Cd. Trains to Gate —Fare, 4d
mHEATRE ROYAL
HOCK HAMPTON, QUEENSLAND.
Seating Accommodation :
( 200, Dress Circle.
- 200, Stalls.
(jOO, Pit.
Stage, 45 x5O feet. Scenery and Fittings com
plete, and every convenience. Sliding Roof for
ventilation.
W. G. CAPORN Si CO., Lessees.
For Terms and Dates, apply
BEALE AND COMPANY,
Sydney, Brisbane and Rockhampton.
Theatre royal
Lessee Mr. S. Lazar.
Sub Lessees, Messrs. Williamson, Garner and Musgrove.
Treasurer ... ... Mr. Geo. L. Goodman.
CONTINUED UNQUALIFIED SUCCESS OF
J. L. TOOLE
IN
The Don. The Don.
ADMISSION 65., Bs. and ONE SHILLING.
ARLINGHURST
SKATING RINK
SKATING
TO-DAY
SKATING
TO-NIGHT
SKATING
TO-DAY
SKATING
TO-NIGHT
SKATING
TO-DAY
SKATING
TO-NIGHT
SKATING
TO-DAY
SKATING
TO-NIGHT
SKATING
TODAY
SKATING
TO-NIGHT
SKATING
THE LARGEST AND BEST
IN THE WORLD.
Remember! Remember!
Seven Laps to the Mile.
THE SPLENDID FLOOR
PRONOUNCED
PERFECT!
THREE SESSIONS
TO-DAY.
Morning, 10 to 12. Ad.,6d. Skates
Free. Afternoon, 2.30 to 5.
Admission: Gents, Is; Ladies, 6d.
Skates, tid.
Evening;, 7.30 till 10.15.
Admission, Is. Skates, Is.
Season Tickets:
Gents, 60s. Ladies, 40s.
SKATING
TO-DAY
SKATING
TO-NIGHT
SKATING
TO-DAY
SKATING
TO-NIGHT
SKATING
TO-DAY
SKATING
TO-NIGHT
SKATING
TODAY
SKATING
TO-NIGHT
SKATING
TO-DAY
SKATING
TO-NIGHT
SKATING
Theatrical
HOSIERY.
SILK
COTTON
WOOL J
TIGHTS, SHIRTS,
AND
OPEUA HOSE,
PADS, ANIMAL DRESSES, ETC.
SPECIALITIES MADE TO OK DEIS.
d'l Trimmings, linols, Singe Fabrics.
Manufacturers to all leading London and Provincial
Theal res.
AUSTRALIAN AGENTS WANTED.
B. BURNET & CO.,
42 King Street, Covent Garden, London.
Art Unions.
jD E S ULT O F DEAWIN G.
ROBERTSON’S WHISKY GIFTS.
DRAWN IN THE NEW MASONIC HALL,
Oastlereagh-street, Sydney,
On MONDAY, JUNE 23, 1890.
Under the management of Mr. John Chisholm.
COMMITTEE :
R. S. GILLIES, Charing Cross Hotel, Waverley.
JOHN H. FERGUSON, Signal Hotel, South
Head.
J. L. CRIMP, Royal Standard Hotel, Cleveland-
street,
F. M'GILLICHDY, Robin Hood Hotel, Waver-
loy.
A. E. OSBORNE, G rovosnor Hotel, Harris;
street, Ultimo.
DRAW MRS :
J. J. ROW ICR, Gaiety Hotel, Oastlereagh-street.
CICORCIC BURROWS, Royal George Hotel,
King and Sussex-streets,
1(5 GIFTS of £5 EACH.
25 GIFTS of £2 EACH.
70 GIFTS of £M EACH
The fo'Juiving numbers win £5 each: —
4231, 13,994, 11,726, 3553, 4283,' 9911, 2680, 9782,
18,954 17,631, 17,138. 8684. 10.589. 14,595,17,687
10,495.
Thefollowing numbers win £3 each: -
10,329, 12,432, 2829, 9158, 6304, 15,621, 17,158,
16,404,14,032,103(5,19,298, 7325, 2644, 5541. 14,503.
16,336, 8966, 13,20(5, 5839, 2140, 0012,5304,8132,
11,186, 17,318.
The following members vein £1 cadi : —
1499, 13,380, 11,184, 4364, 13,564, 12,561, 9803.
16,972, 564, 3738. 20,256, 20,081,15,921, 2025. 4893.
11,206, 11,092, 14,070, 481. 8240, 1(5,642,' 7271,
16,400, 15,926, 1518, 13,514, 5397, 14.756. 7376,
12,492. 4723, 429, 20,187, 3700, 0425, 1615, 6229,
1008, 8923, 932 2161, 5975, 7668, 8232, 18,802.
18,772,12,639, 10,953, 530, 19,322, 10,611,18,933,
3018. 10,058, 12,74(5,3474, 6(509,15,099,9584,11,818.
15.681, 5602, 17,510, 15,833, 7196. 18,454. 14,187,
9923, 450, 18,626.
Allt’s Brewing and Wine and Spirit Company,
(limited),
Charlotte-Place, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
SOLE AGENIS.
Government Advertisements.
* ;•
Department of Public Works,
Sydney, J une 25, 1890.
fl TENDERS FOR PUBLIC WORKS ANL
J SUPPLIES.
For Conditions, see Goveknmknt Gazette.
TENDERS for the Works, &c., specified below
will be received at this Department until 11 o'clock
a.m. on the dates mentioned.
WEDNESDAY, JULY 9.
Works, Culcairn-Corowa
Railway
Plans, &c., to be seen at
the office of Engineer-
in-Chief, Railway Con-
struction Branch, Phil-
lip-street
Erection of Court and Watchhouse, Michclago
Bridge over Marthaguy Creek, road Warren to
Quambone, at Inglegar.
Erection of Post and Telegraph Office, Silverton
(fresh tenders)
Repairs, &c., Post and Telegraph Office, Mus well
brook
Construction of Hand-geared Punt for South
ampton Ferry, Clarence River
Removal of Rocks, Sand, &c., at Port Macquarie
Additions Court-house, Newcastle.
Repairs, &c., Courthouse, Bathurst
Purchase of about 80 tons Old Cast Iron and
Machinery lying at Fitzroy Dock, Biloela
Painting, &c., Coast Hospital, Little Bay
WEDNESDAY, JULY 16.
Works, Nyngan-Cobar
Railway
Plans, &c., to be seen at
the office of Engineer-in
Chief, Railway Construc-
tion Branch,
Manufacture, &c., of a Steel Bridge over Yass
River in Connection with the Tramway
WEDNESDAY, JULY 2J.
Works, Kiama-Nowra
Railway
(
Plans, &c., can be seen
at the above office of
the Engineer-m-Chief
Erection of Timber Bridge, with hinged span, fo i
Belmore Biver, near Gladstone.
Additions Court-house, Barraba
Additions Court-house, Broken Hill
Erection of Post and Telegraph Office, Temora
Construction of a Channel to carry off Hood waters
near Kellick Creek, Macleay River
Bridges, Nos. 2, 3 and 4, in Approaches to Nar-
randera Bridge
Bridge over Gilargambone Creek, road Coonamble
to Dubbo
Erection of Post and Telegraph Office, Hunter’s
Hill
WEDNESDAY, AUGUST G.
Bridge, Hunter River at Aberdeen —Contract
No. I—Manufacture of Ironwork, &c. Con
tract No. 2—Erection of Bridge.
Additions, &c., Police Barracks, Lambton
Repairs, &c., Court-house and Lock-up, Hillston
WEDNESDAY, AUGUST 20.
Bridge, Darling River at Wentworth—Contract
No. I—Manufacture, &0., Steel Lift Span on
Iron Piers. Contract No. 2—Erection of
Lift Span, &e., &e.
WEDNESDAY. OCTOBER la.
Manufacture and Supply of 48-inch Wrought-
iron Water Pipes, special castings, &c. —Con-
tract No. 72, Sydney Water Supply. (Dupli-
cation of Pipe Line, Potts Hill to Sydney)
Manufacture and Supply of 48-inch Cast-iron
Water Pipes, special castings, &c. —Contract
No. 73, Sydney Water Supply. (Duplication
of Pipe Line. Potts Hill to Sydney.).
BRUCE‘SMITH.
IVTOTICE to Aoknts, Subscribers and others
in New Zealand. —Mr. V. HOUIMGAN
is the only authorised Travelling Representative
for Thk Bui.i.etin.
Furniture,.
N E
5 W T O N AND LAM B.
FURNITURE and PIANOFORTE-
WAREHOUSEMEN,
CABINETMAKERS, UPHOLSTERERS
AND
BEDDING MANUFACTURERS.
SHOW IIOOIIS AND MANCFACTORY;
SPRING AND O’CONNELL STREETS.
EAS V' CHAIRS, for Parlour, Library, or Bed-
rooms, new designs, covered to order, in
any mater al.
PIANOFORTES, by R. LTPP and SOWN.
L. NEUFELD and other Celebrated
Makers at WHOLESALE PRICES. Newton
and Lamb.
BAGATELLE BOARDS, Portable, various
sizes. -
BEDROOM SUITES, complete, in various
Woods, and very handsome designs, with
7 ' feet Wardrobes, or with smaller Wardrobes for
single rooms. Great variety.
NEW T O N an d LAM B, .
Furniture Warehouseinen,
SPRING AND O’CONNELL STREETS.
i EDROOM SUITES, fashionable early
English designs—Wardrobe 4 feet, with
silvered plate-glass door : Washstand, with marble
fop and tile back, Towel Rail; Toilet Table,
with Swing Glass attached; and Two Cane-
Seated Chairs, 14 guineas.
NEWTON & LAMB,
O’Connell and Spring Streets.
ĵ
CANVAS FOLDING
COTS, for camping
out. A cheap occasional
bed light, strong, and
handy, 10s. Gd.
Nkwton & Lamb.
DINING TABLES, with patent extending
screws, from 5 feet long and up to 20 feet.
WALNUT TELESCOPIC DINING
TABLES with extra leaves, strongly
made, £3 10s.
Hall furniture, hatstands and
CHAIRS. LARGE ASSORTMENT.
NEWTON & LAMB.
r IBRARY FURNITURE, CENTRE and
JU SIDE TABLES, BOOKCASES, SECRE-
TARIES, READING and LOUNGE CHAIRS.
COMM DDE CHAIRS, BIDETS, with Pan,
SHAVING STANDS, NEWTON and
LAMB.
JAPANESE BLINDS, White or Green (extra
quality), fitted with pulleys and cord, G x 8,
Gs. Gd.; 8 x 8, 95.; 9 xB, 9s. Gd.; 10 xB, 10s. Gd.;
12x8, 12s. Gd.; 12x10, 15s. Newton & Lamb,
Furniture Warehousemen, Spring arid O’Connell
Streets.
EASY CHAIRS for Parlour, Library or Bed-
rooms. New Designs covered to order in
any material. Newton & Lamb.
SELF-ADJUSTING CHAIR and CO ECU,
for Invalids and Medical Men.
OCKING EASY CHAIRS, elegant and
restful— a speciality. Newton & Lamb.
j
A
IT S T R I A N
CHAIRS
in
(TREAT VARIETY.
NEWTON ft LAMB.
j
j
GARDEN SEATS, Oft. long, Rustic Cast-iron
Standards, 14s. Gd., 195., 255., 325. Gd.
Newton and Lamb.
Yerandah chairs.
INDIAN LONG ARM LOUNGES.
"O ATTAN \ Ell AND All LOUNGES, from
It; 155.: and largo variety of Chairs, from
10s. Gd.; special designs, extra quality. Newton
and Lamb, Furniture Warehousemen, Spring and
O’Connell Streets.
EWT <> N AN D LAM B.
FURNITURE and PIANOFORTE
WAREHOUSEMEN,
CABIN ETMAK EI IS, UPIIOLSTER ERS
BEDDING MAN HE ACT! IHE US.
Show Rooms and Manufactory;
SPRING AND O’CONNELL STREETS.
Melbourne Tailorosses* Union works
ahead bravely, and now votes a donation towards
a men’s society of another trade altogether, which
is hard run - reminding one of Cavour chipping in
witli little I taly over the Crimean war. This is
tlie Crimean Shirt war. The tailoresses have a
brick hall of their own, and in many ways set
an example worthy of imitation by the other
women workers.
Dear Bulletin, —Here are some coinci-
dental indications of similar sentiments existing
in great and progressive minds. The Right Rev.
Dr. Thornton, Anglican Bishop of Ballarat, is in
favour of opening the public libraries, museums,
&c., on Sundays. The Rev. Prebendary Eyton
declares, in the English Illustrated Magazine,
that he would like to see a cricket-match played
in every English village on every Sunday after-
noon. Thus two very groat men. Now for the
third and greatest— ! myself am in favour of open
ing pubs, on Sundays.—Yours, The Dipso
MANIAC.
Fitzgerald, a N.Z. settler, while opening a
bag of grass-seed by an upward slash, so nearly
cut his left eye from the socket that it lay on his
cheek, Fitzgerald calmly replaced it, tied a hand-
kerchief over the wound, and rode in to a doctor.
There is a hope that the eye will be saved.
History of the future. From the corres-
pondence columns of tiie daily press of the year
1!)G0:—
Ti ik Disappearance of Brick.
“'Enquirer” is quite right in supposing that Brick
mysteriously disappeared iu 1S90. 1 remember the cir-
cumstances perfectly. He was a well-known member of
the Assembly, and was last seen leaving the Chamber in
the company of Sir Henry Parkes, on whom strong sus-
picion fell at the time.— Oldest Inhabitant.
“Enquirer” is quite wrong. There was nothing
mysterious about Brick’s (or Quick’s) disappearance. He-
was-thrown on his head on the pavement out of a cab,
just after his race with O’Connor, the Postmaster General.
Tne pavement was fractured. .My mother-in-law remem
hers it well.— J. Smith.
With regard to “ Enquirer's ” letter as to Brick’s disap
pearance: My father was in the police force at the time,
and has often told me the story. Crick, or Stick, started
from Sydney for Melbourne to enquire into the system of
sweating watches practised in that city. He was last seen
driving a buggy in company with the reporter for an
evening paper. Neither of them ever turned up again,
hut the horse was subsequently charged at the Melbourne
Police Court with being found in possession of a buggy
when in a state of intoxication.— J. Mmpnv.
1 knew Brick well. He was a perfect nuisance in my
young days, when 1 reported for the Mews. He was a
member of Leichhardt’s party, who was constantly turn-
ing up with relics in all manner of out-of-the-way localities.
He was supposed to have been shot hy Morgan, the bush
ranger. 1 interviewed him several times.—J.H.
Said Recorder Digby Seymour, of New-
castle-on Tyne to a Grand Jury : —
Many cases of murder the result of hasty passion, hot
blood, and sudden impulse under strong provocation
would occur to them, and inasmuch as cases of this kind
bore a great distinction as compared with cases of deli-
berate, malicious murder, which constituted murder in its
common acceptation, there appeared to him to be great
wisdom in the suggestion that there should be a degree
in cases of murder. He believed, however, that punish
merit for murder in the first degree should be death.
off, the degrees of turpitude in murder cases are
no doubt numerous, but, as murderers in nearly
all cases fail to consider consequences, either be-
cause reason is temporarily unseated, or because
t hey rate highly their precautions for concealment,
t herefore The Bulletin again takes opportunity to j
assert that capital punishment is no deterrent —the
only restraining influence is civilised man’s aver-
sion, innate or acquired, to shed his brother’s blood.
Being no deterrent it ought not to be practised,
because the desire for vengeance of a community, {
as of an individual, should never be satisfied !
and when satisfied is a national degradation ;
because the morality of the State should be above
that of its individual members, and because the
sacredness of human life can never be inculcated
by communal murder. When the State shows its
respect for human life by ceasing to take it, even
in the cases of the most cowardly and brutal mur-
derers. then Messieurs les Assassins may be ex-
jiccted to follow suit; centuries have shown the
futility of waiting for their lead. It may be that
the human race will never succeed in civilising out ,
of itself the last trace of the murderous instincts !
of barbarism ; but it is as certain as that the sun
shines that those who advocate capital punish-
ment help to breed, instead of repressing, murder
in the land. The only' fruits of the gallows are
the knife and the poison-bowl.
A SCIENTIFIC AGE.
Oh, what a restless age is this of scientific art,
An age that scorns all sentiment and tendernessot
heart;
An age of foul suspicious doubts. Our old tradi-
tions, too,
We’re told, in cold, prosaic way, are found to be
untrue.
Sir Walter Raleigh didn’t spread his cloak before
the Queen
In order that Her Majesty should keep her slippers
clean ;
Nor did Will Shakespeare write a play—again we
have been sold ;
And Mary never had a lamb, ‘twas Luov, we art'
told.
To the present day all learned men, whose minds
on this is clear,
Will say, in all intelligence, drink St. LouisLagei
Beer.
Building Sites, City of Perth, W.A. Plans
Intercolonial Investment Cos., Limited, IXS Bathurst
street, Sydney.
Amusement of a profitable nature. Lacues,
make your own dresses by procuring one of our
dress stands ; they are indispensable for altering,
trimming, and rc-arranging dresses. They arc, in
fact, a household necessity. We make them to
fold up so as to go iu trunks. Write for parti-
culars to Eastway Brothers, Dress'Stand Makes,r
411 George-strcct, Sydney.


Wolfe’s Schnapps cheers the mind and body.
Write for plans £lO Building sites, Perth,
Western Australia. Intercolonial Investment
Company. Limited, I*o Bathurst-street. Sydney.
j
j
e t o ht I'-. t- Length *1 -T io- Depth 2".
(limited)
T S ;' M ' COJ "P : l « «»<! PC-rtcct instrument ever offered at the price.
X . ‘S.nen Octaves, !• <Ol inclujrd, Iron Frame, Patent Cheek Action, IW
1,1 ‘ Lrosmtoing. repairing only the ininimuni of tuning. The tone'
*& bnUUat M>J PUrC ' •“ " Jy elo S“" t Week ami Gold or
Tins Piano is introduced by W. II PALING & CO., Limited f,„ t !, O
purpose o. meeting a long-felt demand for u good, reliable instrument at an
e> pi 100, and (hereby giving to the head of almost every household an
opportunity Of supplying Ins home with a firsLckiss Piano at a price licre-oloro
r ai '-* wr a much inferior instrument.
Wolfe’s Schnapps—a mild stimulant.
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
Charlemont and Co., high art photographers,
Koyal Arcade, altogether owe their measure of
success to the fact that the merits of their photo-
graphy are always of a high order.
B so Batho s Baking Powder.
\vc'ul<' S ' Silver " a(:c,lcs i >*as. Baums & Co., King-street
Wolfe’s Schnapps—look for £1 orders.
/COUNTRY STOREKEEPERS, ETC.
Should write or call upon
A. M. MARKS & CO.,
—lmporters of—
Furniture, Pianofortes, Glass, Earthenware,
CHINA, FANCY GOODS, ELECTROPLATE,
CIGARS ATO It AC'C ON I STS STNO KIES
SOLE AGENTS FOR
Dawn Cigars and Salonica Turkish Cigarettes.
Special Novelties in all Lines for Christmas Trade.
Prices on Application to—
-A.. IVE. Marks & Co.,
Vickery’s Buildings, 74a Pitt Streeet, Sydney
AND AT LONDON.
Telephone, No. 919.
LADIES,
CONSULT the Eminent
Specialist,
Dr. SPEER, 31 York-st.
Sydney.
-DIIjLS ((guaranteed), 55.. post free.
Ewing’s Indelible
Apptnvim I vi,P.™v.» nm r™n ___ ~ “"“‘WUUfI.
marking* Ink.
have examined RwinA tvt i.; r. i
First Prize:
. - MELBOURNE EXHIBITION
Am ROV ED AND PATRONISED BY V ICE-ROYALTY AND *
the Elite of the Australasian Colonies.
for ,mSg° ha y e examinetl Ewing’s M^g”,
It may be well recommended.—Signed, Wji. Johnston *’ *" 1 !t iewst,ng aJI attempts to wash out
Adam Bede’s
NOW OPEN
MELBOURNE CUP, 1890.
50,000 at 20 each.
•' r 50,000 at 3LO each.
Auokess (please register letters■)—
Aflam Befle,
C/o H. N. ABBOTT,
Post Office Chambers, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
462 EXTRA.—462.
400 EXTRA.-400.
Ask for tho
Unequalled
“DAWN” 3d. CIGAR,
j
Of an
Tobacconists,
Store
Hotel
keepers.
Whole'mlo A ff en«s. V. M MARKS & Co., 71a PITT STREET, SYDNEY
Dr. SCOTT’S Electric Hair Brushes will posi-
tively CURE Nervous Headache or Neuralgia in
five minutes, if used according to directions. In
ordinary everyday use they will promptly arrest
falling hair and baldness, dandruff and diseases of
the and make the hair grow long apd
glossy. These beautiful brushes are made with
pure bristles—not wire, which injure the scalp and
cause baldness and irritation. Illustrated price
list of Dr. Scott’s Genuine Electric Appliances
posted free on application to the
Pall Mall Electric Association,
56 MARGARET STREET, SYDNEY.
Is made with the utmost care from materials
which are
Selected with the Greatest Regard for Purity
and for the
SOOTHING Si L".::FICIAL effect
Which they impart to the Skin and Complexion.
COLD MEDAL, LARIS, 18HD.
THE REFEREE.
The International Boat-Race.
T-ho soulling-raoe between O’Connor, of Canada*
and btaiilmry, of N.S. Wales, for £5OO a side, was rowed
on —>id June, and attracted a crowd of about ten thousand
people. It is always a mystery why people leave Sydney
in thousands to see sculling-races and swarm into ail
soitsot over-crowded harbour launches, which threaten
to precipitate their terrified passengers into the water.
When they get to Gladesville they are cursed by tlic
" atei -police and chased off to tin n.nchorag'e, where th§v
can t sec the race ; then they wa t an 1 watch the monte-
men and spielers on board winning the money from the
gieen and unwary; also, they drink to pass away the
time, and herein lies the real secret of the popularity of
the boat-racing. It is not half so bad on a warm
sunny day to be at anchor on the gleaming rivei
the brcczo and watch the myriad craft go by, while
you get half-blind on bottled beer. When the race docs
come past, there are usually seven or eight scullers
Keeping it company, and no one can tell which are the
\\o men, but the very knowing ones on board pick oui
wi ; o !'a .' ne ,n and cheer them vociferously, and when
some slab-sided waster of an amateur comes along thev
wur ai i md< L r ,nistaken impression that he is
\Vilham Beach. When the race is finished, they haul up
their anchor and crowd on full steam for Sydney to find
?n f WOn ' ~T hoS(r who like t 0 Part a pound or so
to follow the race throughout certainly see it, but they, as
“ r . ®’ Il are ' ful Hy under the impression that it is a swindle
a l ; U arranged betorehand, and that if they could only
hnHmcf r 'r t lnf o«nation they could pick up money in
rL Consequently, they fret because they haven’t
information; also, because a fat bookmaker’s
elbow is firmly jammed into their stomach half the way
down the course, and two or three nondescript ruffians are
trampling on their feet the other half. Then when the
race turns out a fizzle-as the O’Connor-Stanbury race
did—they get precious little for their money *
* * *
Right here let it be recorded that the boat-races
on the river—whenever they are reallv rowed out-now-
adajs are, so far as can be ascertained, fair and square,
although a great many know-alls who see swindling in
thpr ythmS WIU 1 you the contrary. In the old days
KS a S°°d many contests, which, although thev
L°°* ed desperate were not races at all, and the
first thing to find out was who had sold the race Then
you ccuW go in and back the other man with a light
heai t and find out in the long run that he had worked
a double cross on you. With the advent of William
Beach sculling was lifted clear of much of its ruffianism
and Beach s example no doubt exercises a very wholesome
influence even now. This is in no small degree due to the
pluck and money of the hackers. There are a few men in
feydney ready to find training and battle money for bona-
Me races, and if they lose they don’t squeal. * But were
tfiL SUPP nV i these ™ e i> withdrawn, and the scullers
throw n absolutely on their own resources, or on the re-
sources of the smaller fry of sportsmen, who require to
get something out of somebody, win or lose, w r e w’ould
soon have professional sculling races arranged beforehand
and the sport would sink down as low as it has in England
—you can’t say anything worse than that. Whenever one
«uu\n e « a n V aCe 0n the Parramatta River, so surely
Bhow finanCla su PP° rt bi withdrawn, and over goes the
* * *
The day of the race turned out cold, clear wes-
terly weather, a strong wind driving straight down the
river and stirring up the white horses. It was pretty
well known that O’Connor is a bad w aterman—that is tc
say not at home in rough weather—and the “talent’
laid odds on §tanbury with an easy mind. The tide wa‘
running down strongly, and this helped the men some
what as if it had been running up against the wind there
would have been a “ jump” on which a wager-boat could
baldly live in. As it was, both men’s boats were pretty well
full of water before starting. The race needs little de-
scription. They started a great deal too close to the
rnM u 'Lt'p' 6 ’ r d 5 1 , made 11 necessary to take a bend
louud 1 hr s Point, which is running out further into the
rncr every year owing to the mud deposited bv the tide
and river water. If they had started further out they
woukl have been able to take a perfectly straight course
to Blaxland s and down the river. They got away quite
together, both men rolling and splashing in the* heavy
waves. Stan bury had the outside rowing, and he be<>-ih
to close in on O’Connor as they neared the point It was
of course, necessary to shave this as closely as possible’
and O Connor kept in very near, partly (perhaps) because
he gave way to Stan bury and partly because lie wanted
to get round as quickly as possible. It was lust
exactly hke two horses coming round a corner into
the straight running—the outside one bores in and the
inside one hugs the rails ; so with these men. O’Connor
gave way more than he need have done, hut he was
hugging the rails” for his own benefit, and as he was
■some distance from shore, he probably didn’t think the
water was so shallow as to be dangerous. Now, the point
is extremely shallow—a mere mud-bank, in fact—and
O Connor struck the mud with the blade of his scull and
nearly threw himself out of his boat. Then he milled
sharply out and, did he foul Stanburv, who had
bored in very close and was a little* more than
level with him that is the question? O'Connor
says that he did foul him, and many other people who
were on the umpire’s steamer emphatically say so 100
Stanburv says the boats never touched, many spectators
Say likewise, and the umpire says they did not touch ; and
if they did the collision was so slight as to make no
difference in the result of the race. O’Connor after scet
(mg his boat out of difficulties, held up his’hand and
claimed the foul, and then simply paddled down the
course, having chucked the race up before he had '--one
half a mile, and w hile his man was yet within a boat’s
length of him.
* * *
It must be remembered that if O’Connor liked
to go in too close to shore, Stanbury had a perfect rbdit
to follow in—at his own risk. The mere following him in
was nothing, there must be, under the rules an actual
contact of the boats to entitle O’Connor to say that he
was fouled. If the boats touched, then O’Connor is
entitled to (he stakes, even though it made no difference
m the result: and unless they touched it does not matter
how far out of his course Stanbury went. O'Connor’s
story now is that ho could have won easily, but didn’t
try to after the foul. Anyhow, there he was, a fresh man
having his opponent within a length or two, and with
two miles and a half to go, v et he turned it up and merely
paddled down the course. Ho has protested against the
paying over of the stakes, demands that at least either
the foul be allowed him or that the race be rowed
over again, and says that otherwise he will
row no more in Australia, us he will eonsidei
himself to have been robbed of the race, and so on
This ail recalls an incident which occurred in England
When Beach was rowing Lee (we think it was Lee) lit
was deliberately fouled twice by his opponent : no half
and-half foul, mind you, with a dispute about w hether the
boats touched or not, but a couple of regular rb'ht-dowu
deliberate jostles. The grim and silent William did not
hold up his hand. No: William put his back into it,
lifted his boat clear of his mean adversary, and reached
home winner with any amount to spare.* When Kemp
and Haitian got together in one of their races and a foul
was imminent, Kemp stopped for a stroke—“Go on
Ved,” he said, and he let Ilanlau get his boat clear and
then went after him and heat him.
* * *•
And now that O'Connor is going aw ay from
this land of robbers and good scullers, w hom do we con-
sider the best man here ? Well, we can tell vou. We
can spell the champion’s name in nine letters—Peter
Kemp.
* * #
Stanbury can beat O’Connor, but, all the same
it is evident that what was a foul, or the equivalent of a
foul, took place through Stanbury’s fault or his misfor-
tune. The general public deeply regret that, under the
circumstances, the referee (a gentleman who, so far as we
are aware, has never figured in a wager-boat in his life)
did not adopt the middle course of ordering the race to
he rowed over again. As to Mr. Thomas’ opinion that the
foul, if any, was so slight as not to affect, the result of the
race, it is hard to say how one so inexperienced in scull-
ing could guage the ground lost by a man in rowing his
shell on the top of a mud-flat into which he was bored by
his opponent.
r)PPhuP e QfT^ tm ? tll 2 a^ove we learn that John G.
I ecbl o , Stan bury s gaffer, moved by the protestation of
| he Un ‘H ire ’ s decision, has consented to
.1 \\ t 0 b ® r , owed over a &ain next Monday after-
,,’° i same stakes, with the proviso that Mr. J. E.
Mej ers shall be umpire. This is such manly and straight-
telid Collduct fllat it; ' s to he hoped success will at-
*' * *
nidh^ y i diS u® arteni Pu ßfeafcureof the sensational
I match, at was the action of the Players in con-
I eluding their innings, instead of declaring the side “ all
n,t j *7’ * 4 , 00 ’,. as they . mi » ht have done by the new
Ansi,, v V jdent]y the captain felt cocksure of getting 20
hwickets in one day, if necessary, and seems to
haie had good reason for his confidence. Why Murdoch
should take Trott off for good when only 21 runs had
been scored from him is a puzzle. Shrewsbury and Co
™* he ' r trip but one, were more afraid of Trott than
Ele S vof°f t h i V an& '. Garrett, or any of the Fifth Australian
man r«t w!" y u y H ht of thc South Melbourne
man next trip, and were the first to say that he would
turn out a better batsman than bowler in England
*,* . *
, J-he model athlete can take his collar off with-
hfa eirsT P,y St ° Ver Ws hea(i ”
( # * *
Commenting upon the apparent falling-off in
Australian batting, as compared with the records of the
Lem r to r fllf n nta^ IVe ele -' enS ’ none of om ' cricket critics
Attewell vZi p r . an improvement in English bowling,
nil c e ■ ee ’ Br’ggs, and Lohmann, for instance, have
a ,d s P‘'i ]n n up within the past seven years, and none of
he'A,^ C ,0W^ 1 f ° r “ 'Gi England ”in any match where
hn?i ,! - t ( I IaT , IS have . soored heavily. The Fourth Eleven
had their first experience of Attewell in a game which
tney narrowly escaped losing by an innings and some 200
OC v? j UnS- They had but one wicket to fall when time was
caUed Yet when they came to play “ All-England ” they
had the pleasure of slogging Peate (whom Massie always
constdered to be a real soft thing on a dry wicket) and
utmstopnerson, a gentleman amateur. Attewell, the
3°lt, was ignored by the Britishers, while Peel. Brings
and Lohmann were not yet thought about. To those
tour bowlers a lot of the change in Australian Eleven
batting averages may be attributed, and anyone who likes
to wade through the history of the last three Elevens
(present included) will find that English victories have
usually been assisted by one, or more, of the quartette.
* * *
Murdoch is represented as having said just
before latest mail-date that his present team are “ up to
the best standard of previous elevens.”
* * #
■The Australian cricketers did their preliminary
practice on the Chiswick Park ground, not on Mitcham
Common, as intended.
* * *
The Players’ decisive vic'ory at Lords’ over the
Australians by an innings and 263 runs shows that “ Our
Boys” can’t bowl on a dry wicket; they have already
shown that they can’t bat on a wet one,
* * *
Poor Bdl Midwinter has been put away in the
Sandhurst Asylum, hopelessly insane. His relatives had
to call in the police after the once-famous cricketer had
attempted to set his distracted head afire. The loss of
wife and children is supposed to have brought Mid. to his
present state, and his old friends will think none the less
ot him because his heart is so firmly established in the
right place.
* * #
At a recent meeting of the Sydney Driving
Park Club the favourites swept the board by winning the
whole of the six events on the card. Four of the good
things came from Driscoll's stable, and the bookies'filed
home by the dirt road, chaunting “Down went M‘Gintv
to the bottom of the say.”
*
Although White’s horses appear to be failures
hiuiy Betty ditto, and the often-raced Ringmaster a third-
rater “at home,” we have yet no solid ground on which
to base a comparison between English and Australian
thoroughbreds. Indications are certainly against ns If
Ringmaster bo now the horse that he was on this side
then it is tolerably evident that English handicap horses
ire better class than ours. But the consideration which
gives ns most pause is the leading position taken here by
two—viz., Lochiel and Russley-out of the very few im-
ported Britishers. They are “cracks” in these parts
and moreover they are two of the most stylish-lookirm
animals one can find on the Australian turf Judgin"
from them it would seem to be better worth an owner’s
while to import young English horses (well-bred two-year-
olds) than to ship expensive Australian yearlings “home.”
*# * °
Couehe had little difficulty in disposing of
Dutch, in their light-skiff match, ‘on Saturday last, for
although Dutch led for the first portion of the course
Couehe rowed him down by the time Cabarita was
reached, and won by any number of lengths, in the fast
The boat used by the winner was
put together by Messenger. Messenger was the inventor
rLpHi^ r p ent , Sty i e .?fJ^ ht skiff - The old as
I v ,y i", nc l ' and Gratb, and other old-timers, had
? V ' s ‘ la P ed bottom, but Messenger brought the wager-
boat bottom into vogue, and the other builders had to
follow suit to keep in the hunt.
* * *
. Pugilist Henry Laing, a New Zealand lialf-caste
is going through the Bankruptcy Court. He attributes
his pecuniary trouble to sickness, which prevented him
from giving exhibitions, and caused him to forfeit in the
i J ettengell match.
* * *
i A* P re sent there are two first-class horses,
Unwin l and tradition, fancied for the Grand National
Hurdle Race at Flemmgton. If both run up to their
form on the flat, and jump like the “ deer ” talked about,
I?” held I? aS“!fc rt ' OT **" be tol "* b * **
* * *
A curious tangle, indeed, Searle’s monetary re-
lations with his backers and the letter written by the
father of the dead sculler to a provincial paper does not
PiA Sauifi 18 ln - a > , etter bght. The old man alleges that
the £5OO deposited was returned to the backers. In the
Cormthian days when a man was supported at all, he got
all the stakes and a handsome present as well.
* * #’
Bob Mostyn, the well-known sporting scribe,
has been offered an engagement on the Melbourne
Sportsman, but does not care to leave Sydney.
* * *
The walking-match, at Bondi Aquarium, be-
tween M Laren and Murray was, for weather reasons, post
poned till next Saturday. The ticket-system of Sundav
concerts continues to be highly successful, especiallv in
point of attendance, and only requires grafting on a
boom l: ’ CW ‘ eUu '" or bus-running to be a big financial
* * *
F. Bell beat L. Nathan for the light-weight
boxing championship of Queensland at the Brisbane
fair I fid 1 S t Um " Cek ' n tCn rounds ’ after a furi <>us but
* * #
How about barrackinism as a football word?
the expression barrackin comes from the East of London,
and will be found in Mayhew’s “London Labour and Lon
cion roor.
* * #
i Vas surprising to find pony-racing denounced
iy Ninny Melville and Jack Haynes, who are, compara
m^ S, l e w kI IJFi Ule T re , ga,lo ' va y s , while a fine upstanding
thoroughbred like Jack Want supports the game.
AN EDITOR’S EXPERIENCE IN
LONDON.
(Birmingham CHRONICLE.)
Vliile in London, staying at a prominent hotel,
we met with a gentleman who had been treated
01 several years by the most eminent physicians
xt home and abroad, and had been pronounced by
them incurable ; but who, by a chance conversa-
tion, was induced to apply St. Jacobs oil. His
sufferings had been intense, and he had for a long
time been unable to wear boots. He was confined
to his bed for months at a time, and his limbs
were strapped to a board to prevent his becoming
permanently crippled. The result of the applica-
tion of St. Jacobs oil was a complete cure within
a few days, and his case appeared so remarkable
that we personally investigated it; and, to con-
firm the above statement that gentleman him-
self testified to the fact. The reason wc take
such an interest is that we noticed in the Lon-
don Sunday Times an article with reference
to this remedy; and we investigated the ease
of a former employe of Messrs. Davey and
Moore, bottle and stoneware manufacturers. This
man, after trying various physicians and many
medicines (some of which were supplied from St.
Mary s Hospital) without effect, and being pro-
nounced by the chief medical authorities incurable,
and having suffered over six years was admitted to
the Burton Hospital where, after ten weeks medi-
cal treatment, which included the use of mineral
waters and baths, he obtained no relief whatever.
After trying all the remedial measures advised by
friends, he could only move about on crutches, and
experienced intense pain. His joints had become
badly swollen, the sensation being as though some
sharp instrument was passing through him. The
physicians who attended him stated that he would
be an invalid as long as he lived. A casual
acquaintance in the infirmary informed him of St.
lacobs oil, which he applied, and to his astonish-
ment he found it to effect a thorough cure. This
ease has also been personally verified by the writer
of this article, who has not the least interest in
the promotion of St. Jacob’s oil. It is solely for
the benefit of the public that we write the fore-
going, and it is with confidence and sincere plea-
sure that we recommend this astonishing curative
agent.
VERY MUCH BETTER.
" Oh, yes, I assure you, very much better ! in
fact, a far superior watch to the Waterbury in
I every respect! They are of European manufae-
| hire, and are specially made to our order for the
Sydney market. They will stand hard work and
rough usage better than any other cheap watch
made, and are particularly adapted for the bush
by reason of their being fitted with a patent non-
conducting percussive backstay on the new
dynamic theory of salvation by results. You can
swim a river or cl mb a tree, attend one of Varley's
lectures to men only, or jo n the new Royal Naval
Reserve under patronage of the Legislative}
Council for the preservation of Imperialism with
absolute impunity. We can highly recommend
these watches, and the pr ce is “
Young man, spare me! 1 have done you no
wrong. Yet this watch was sent up the bush to
me by a friend on the strength of your recommenda-
tion. Look at it! ‘ Overwound' did you say? Well,
perhaps so. But it resolve 1 itself into the state
of utter disorganisation in which you now see it, in
the dead of night, when the household was buried
in slumber, without any provocation it went off at
half-cock and scattered consternation through my
humble dwelling. The dynamic theory, vou will
observe, is an utter failure, as the works can now
be gathered in a teaspoon. The percussion back-
stay is a fraud, for the wheels are made of tea-
chest lead, and were unequal to the strain. Take
it! Sell it to some other idiot who wants a cheap
Swiss watch to gladden his home with, and bring
me a Waterbury. Yon are young; it is not too
late to amend. Forbear while there is time. You
are not compelled to lie for a mere living. Keep
the honest, truthful, trustworthy Waterbury ever
before you as an example, and cease to beguile the
unwary with these got-up-to-sell European imita-
tions. There is but one low-priced watch which
performs the functions of a timekeeper : that is the
Waterbury. And you know it.”


Business Announcements.
PHiDDY & CO.,
Manufacturers
HAT||
SVIERCERV:
438 George Street, Sydney.
07S (((civile Street, Brickfield Hill,
Hats made to Order-
Morley’s ' Hosiery.
DESTROYED
MANHOOD
REGAINED AND RETAINED.
The Australian Medical
Institute,
35 CASTLEEEA.GH STEEET,
Founded for the Treatment of Nervous, Skin
Blood, and Chronic Complicated D seascs, is
tho Only Reliable Medical Institute in Austral-
asia making a Speciality of PRIVATE DISEASES.
DR. JENKINS
Treats sucessfully all forms of Nervous,
Ehronic, and Private Diseases, no matter of
how long standing or however compl catcd.
TO THE UNFORTUNATE
Who through ignorance and Mly have trifled awny
their strength, become ambitionless in Me, en-
feebled in power, and to whom existence is scarcely
bearable, Dr. Jenkins sajs
come: and be healed
As the terms upon-."lnch patients are treated, viz.,
NO CURE NO FEE, enables all sufferers to avail
themselves of this remarkable opportunity ot
obtaining a speedy and effectual cure. Dr. J enk ns
wishes it to bo distinctly understood that he docs
not rely upon the issue of books, more often never
written by the persons wliose names they bear, and
are mere traps for the unwary, but honestly and
straightforwardly treats his patients according to
the dictates of a sound medical training.
NOTE THE ADDRESS
The AUSTRALIAN MEDICAL INSTITUTE,
35 CASTLEREAGII STREET (Corner Moore-strcef),
FTW . CO . SVD3SI2V.
JC I I itinVK I A SOV, Manufacturers and Ini
, porters of Superior Oak-Tanned Leather Bki.tino,
and every description of Leather Goods for Mining and
Engineering purposes.
All Goods bearing the above Trade Mark arc warranted
to Rive entire satisfaction, or may be returned at the
Makers’ expense. The Pioneer Oak-tanned Leather
Belting is used exclusively by the_ N.S.W. Gov eminent.
Over ZOO,OOO runnihj in Australia. The cheapest and
best Belting in the world. Send for prices arid catalogues
162 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
- V
tam
m
m
-I
TH t
ROYAL
EDINBURGH
CASTLE"
Specialßeserve-
•h A -k
m
■
OLD
SCOTCHWHISKY
$o&/ll f uijrio(Aoii
m
aft
m.
KOVAL
Edinburgh Me
WHISKY.
« * *
Special Reserve.
In Square Bottles.
This Whisky was
selected by our Gene-
ral Manager, Mr. Jas.
Cullen, during his
recent visit to Scot-
land, and through its
purity, age and mag-
nificent bouquet, has
already secured the
premierpositioninthe
market. In cases, qrs.
and octaves. To be
had Duty Paid from
any of the Wholesale
Wine and Spirit Mer-
chants and Distribu-
ting Houses, and in
Bond only from the
SOLE AGENTS,
William Campbell k Co M Limited*
iw Clarence Street. SYDNEV.
Advise your friends to drink Wolfe’s Schnapps.
The sweating system in England
SHORTHAND Clerk required in large West-end
estate agency offices. Must be quick and accu-
rate. Salary one tjuiaea per iveck. Write, slating
age, experience, and speed, to Estate Agent, May s,
102 Piccadilly.
Old-fashioned Jewellery modernised to perfection. De-
signs free. Daii.ms and Co., King-street Arcade.
A good bed companion —Wolfe’s Schnapps.
In the German Imperial Guard cavalry,
out of 031 officers all but 18 arc “nobles, - ’ and in
the cavalry there are only four officers who do not
bear titles. The Emperor has declared that this
system shall now cease.
TTse Batho’s Baking Powder.
Buy Wolfe’s Schnapps by the bottle.
Among ihe imports from Brisbane by the steamer f-eura
recently was one broom-handle, value (id., consigned to
the Northern Sheriff. The freight on the article was
2s. 9d. It is understood that the horse, cart and man to
convey the handle round from the w harf to its destination
were loft behind at the metropolis by some mistake.—
Townsville Star. And yet people say that North Qu eens-
land doesn’t need Home Rule 1
The United States is a nation of traders. 1 wo-
thirds of the business men of the Republic use
Esterbrook’s “Fat.com” Pen. Samples free at
all Stationers.
BROKEN ENGLISH.”
Grand Pier Hotel, Manly.
***** f
-
EUCTIUO PHOTO ENC. CO- 8 BBtDOE'STv SYDNEY.
lATINEB A BIUIORK • ■ ■ • Proprietors,
This Hotel has been Ke-Furnished throughout. IST CnishK and CVnifort a Speciality.
Aarons’ Exchange Hotel, Sydney.
i.m.miiw in
a
. -
». .
•"' Er' ' '■’• - i
«£'*-%< *t |fr ft' $
*T& OMI ~? lii sych '•;
«*fj
: ; : •A 1 ;:’ '• ■ ••£
rtp ..?-h •
R-
' :: . .'-■ ■
Hii 4lt& P i li(
! '
Mtm
&4- -S'l
gwA
SMi
iH
Pfel
Si
Adjoining- the Sydney Exchange.
Mining, Financial and General Mercantile Intelligence
Posted several times DAILY in the Building - .
TELEGRAPH. POST and
This Hotel her been thoroughly
ml attention.
MONEY ORDER OFFICES on the PREMISES,
renovated and re-furnished, and is now unrivalled for comfort
Aarons’ Exchange Hotel Co. (Limited), Proprietors.
uo You Smoke ?
, f _ , , vflllrM .if to all article so far above all Ollier brands in quality ami flavour that it cannot 1)0
,'Si«T j y bo S»” want you to try is tla; “ DEAD BIRD - brand. In colour it is a rich
i.r hiTAvn and is the finest quality of American Tobacco ever introduced. Wo only ask you to send
u oi a jib. packet of the Long Cut, and after haying once tried it, you will never
(•Vi aiiJe it for any other brand. We can send you a small parcel of the tobacco m any form-as a
MWtiire Long Cut, or Curly Cut, for pipe only. This particular cut does not require any rubbing np.
Wo can send you any size plug from an ounce to a pound weight.
For 11b. Plugs ...
For Long Cut, Jib. pkts.
<V-
7/-
PRICES:
Single Plug, as sample, |lb ... 1/6
Single Packet, as sample, ... 2/-
Send Stamps for any of these amounts, and we will forward to any part of N.S. W. (post free.)
A CRAIG & AITKEN, 680 George Street, Sydney.
JONES’ SEWING MACHINES,
por the boot and tailoring trades.
THE BEST MANUFACTURING MACHINES IN EXISTENCE.
Now Perfected, the New No. 3 and No. 4 Machines on an Entirely New System.
STOCK JUST LANDING.
Farlelgh, Netthelm, & Co.,
TANNERS AND LEATHER MERCHANTS,
16 + YORK + StfBBET, + SYD IDT lE] If.
Sole Agents for the above*for New South Wales and Queensland.
V -(x)
n Ttrmorters of Requisites for the BOOT MANUFACTURING TRADE in all Details, including MACHINERY,
IFATHFRB Ac. -and of the following Spkcial Lines : I'eerl.ss Gloss, s.illi. Collsli, Nubian
IM PORTI.D «c. Mftter f a i s . Indents Executed on Favourable Terms.
Medical.
DR. RICHARDS.
i’!W" '
<5O
This eminent Specialist, Foundor, and Chief
Surgeon of the long-established and favourably-
known Dispensary that now bears his name, re-
ceived his medical education in the lending colleges
and hospitals of Europe. He has devoted a life-
time to the study of
PRIVATE, NERVOUS, AND SKIN
diseases.
He has by profound research thoroughly investi-
gated their origin, traced their deadly sources and
insidious dissemination, and ascertained the surest
and safest methods by which they may bo eradi-
cated, with those widely recognised qualifications
combined with unswerving faithfulness to hit
patients, he has during his practice, extending
over FORTY YEARS, attained a well-deserved
pre-eminence in their treatment. 11 is practice
embraces diseases which probably cause more un-
happiness than any other class of troubles that
afflict mankind.
YOUNG MEN
who suffer from the results of early follies, trans-
gressions or excesses of more nature ago, bladder
difficulties, a whitish or dark ropy sediment in
the water, accompanied by slight burning or
smarting sensation, Headaches. Drowsiness during
the day, circles round the eyes, Giddiness,
irregularity of the bowels, specks before the eyes,
bashfulnc=s, discontentedness, weakness or pains
in the back, Liver or kidney complaints, dreams,
buzzing noises in the cars and head, pimples, a
fear that something dreadful is about to happen,
weak ttomach, yellow or blood-shot eyes, impure
blood, hasty, uncontrollable temper, hacking
cough, who cannot marry, nervousness in society,
wakefulness, palpitation of the heart, general
weakness, and other symptoms which lead to in-
sanity and death, should consult him, for lie has
mastered these d fllculties. On receipt of 6d. in
stamps he will send secure from observation in a
plain wrapper, postage
FREE, A LARGE CLOTH-BOUND
BOOR.
Showing p’ainly how all diseases of the private or
nervosis system may be cured thoroughly and per-
manently without unnecessary expenca. This
book will prove a valuable companion, and even
though you bo perfectly well its general inform-
tion and prescription may assist you in restoring
some poor friend to health even after his case has
been pronounced incurable by his medical at-
tendant .
ONE POUND IS SUFFICIENT TO
SEND
for Remedies necessary for the cure of NER-
VOUS DEBILITY. Should you require medical
treatment, as procrastination is sometimes dan-
gerous, it would be advisable for you to sit down
quietly in your chamber and write to the doctor,
detailing every experienced symptom. Ho will
on receipt of such a letter, write you, promptly
and courteously, a candid and straightforward
oponion of your case. If you do not think you
understand the case, send for his famous medical
work, the price of which is but sixpence ; enclosed
in the volume will be found a list of carefully-pre-
pared questions, which will, in all probability,
assist you materially in describing your ailment.
Dr. Richards uses nothing but the purest remedies,
and never prescribes mercury under any circum-
stances. The moment letters arc carefully per-
used and answered they are destroyed by fire,
and patients may rest assured that their cases
will remain a secret between the doctor and
themselves. Dr. Richards has successfully treated
nearly 25,000 cases since coming to Australia, and
has permission from at least 10,000 persons to
show their written evidence of his success. All
communications should be addressed
Dr. RICHARDS,
>7 Spring Street
(Off Pitt Street North)
SYDNEY.
Be sure to mention this paper when writing
CONSULTATION EEEE.


Shipping.
JJUDDART, PARKER & CO.’S LINE
STEAM TO
MELBOURNE and TASMANIA.
From Huddart, Parker’s Wharf.
For Time and Date of Sailing', see daily papers.
The magnificent steamships, BURRUMBEET and
ELINGAMITE, have established an unrivalled reputation
for their speed and accommodation, and their large sire
ensures passengers a maximum of comfort. The saloon
cabins are light, airy and very roomy. The dining saloon
is full width of the ships, also magnificent music room,
with gentlemen’s smoking room and splendid promenade
deck. Fore-cabin is on the main deck—lofty and well-
ventilated, perfect sanitation and ample lavatories. Fore-
cabin passengers provided with victuals and rugs. Inspec-
tion invited on days of sailing.
FARES to MELBOURNE:
Saloon, Single £1 5 0
~ Return 2 5 0
Forecabin 10 0
FARES to LAUNCESTON :
Saloon, Single £2 5 0
~ Return ... ... 315 0
Forecabin 10 0
FARES to HOBART:
Saloon, Single £1 0 0
„ Return ... 110 0
Return Tickets available for Six Months.
For Freights apply
HUDDAET. PAEKEE & 00-
(Limited).
Office and Wharf: Foot of Margaret Street, Sydney.
D
IRECT SERVICE TO ENGLAND.
PENINSULAR AND ORIENTAL STEAM
NAVIGATION COMPANY.
The Company’s Royal Mail Steamships (under contract
with the Imperial, New South Wales, Victorian, and South
Australian Governments) will be dispatched from their
Wharf, Circular Quay, as under, for LONDON, calling- at
Melbourne, Adelaide, Albany, Colombo, Aden, Brindisi,
Malta, Gibraltar, and Plymouth.
Steamers.
Commander.
> 0> a
03-5 a
§ 2 %
3^o
<d jd
c?
O o
. , <
Parramatta 4771 R. G. Murray June 30 July 5 July 9
Oceana .. 6362iP. S. Tomlin ..{July 14 July 19'JuIy23
Massilia .. i49lBjC. Fraser .. ..{July 28 Aug. 2 Aug. 6
Arcadia ~ ;6362j VV. B. Andrews I Aug. 11 (Aug. 16 Aug 20
Britannia .. ,6257 J Orman .. Aug. 25Aug. 30 Sep. 8
And henceforth every alternate week.
RESERVED CABINS ON MODERATE TERMS.
SALOON PASSENGERS MAY BREAKTHEIR JOURNEY.
The arrangements for SECOND SALOON PASSENGERS
having been thoroughly re-organised, the accommodation
now offered is unsurpassed. Passage-money can be paid
here for passages from England. Liberal concessions made
to families. Passengers, cargo, and parcels are booked
through to India, China, and Japan. Cargo and parcels
will not be received after 3 p.m. on the day previous to
sailing. For all information apply at the Company’s
Offices, 247 George-street. A. MACLEAN Acting Agent.
NORDDEUTSCHER LLy if j,
IMPERIAL GERMAN MAIL.
Passengers are carried according to the requirements ot
the English Passenger Acts of 1885 and 1863.
MONTHLY LINE OF DIRECT STEAMERS
from
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, and ADELAIDE,
to SOUTHAMPTON, ANTWERP, and BREMEN, via
COLOMBO, Aden, Suez, and Genoa,
taking passengers for London,
connecting from PORT SAID by DIRECT MAIL and
PASSENGER LINE to BRINDISI,
will be despatched as follows (if practicable):
And thereafter every four weeks.
PASSAGE MONEY from SYDNEY,
£l4 to £57 10s.
RETURN TICKETS, available for NINE and TWELVE
MONTHS, at REDUCED RATES.
Passengers and Cargo are booked through to New York,
via Southampton.
Special facilities are afforded for bringing out relatives
and friends from the United Kingdom and Europe by pre-
payment. of the passage money in Australia.
For FREIGHT, PASSAGE, and all further particulars,
apply to FREDK. BETZ&CO., Agents, sO’Connell-street.
TTNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF NEW
U ZEALAND. Limited.
SAN FRANCISCO ROYAL MAIL SKRVICE.
OVERLAND ROUTE TO ENGLAND VIA SAN
FRANCISCO AND NEW YORK,
Calling at
AUCKLAND and HONOLULU,
Avoiding alike the heat pf the Red Sea and the cold
of Cape Horn.
Under Contract with the Postmasters-General of New
South Wales and New Zealand, the steamers of this line
are appointed to leave Sydney and Auckland for Honolulu
and San Francisco every fourth Wednesday, sailing as
under: —
Each steamer carries a duly qualified surgeon.
These steamers are fitted with Electric Light and with a
Refrigerating Chamber for ship provisions, insuring a
plentiful supply of ice throughout the voyage.
Passengers are booked to San Francisco or through to
European destinations and have at San Francisco choice of
the unrivalled Atlantic Steamship Lines of the Cunard,
Inman, White Star, and other companies.
All first-class passengers are allowed 3501 b. of baggage
to San Francisco and 2501 b. “Overland ” free of charge.
THROUGH FARE TO LIVERPOOL.
FIRST-CLASS .. .. .. .. £63 to £66.
Time-cards, railway maps, and glide books, showing all
routes to any point in the United States, may be had on
application
For rates of passage and freight and all other informa-
tion apply at the Company’s Offices, 15 Bridge-street.
FREDK. W. JACKSON, Manager.
JJISTORY OF BOTANY BAY
PRICE-ONE SHILLING.
Everybody now-a-days drinks Wolfe’s Schnapps.
Wirefence is manager of a large sheep and
cattle run, and his occupation affords him un-
limited scope for the display of his unrivalled
meanness. Posts cost about £5 per hundred, so,
when one of old W.’s fences is getting a bit shaky,
he puts on a couple of men to take the posts out
and put them in again upside down, and the result
is something like this :
!s iJ
-y
The other clay it occurred to him that there were
more than the orthodox 200 pounds in the bags of
flour, and that, consequently, the ration men were
getting at him when they got a hag for a ten-
weeks’ double ration. So he announced that, as
he had adopted a new system of book-keeping, he
would in future have to weigh out the flour
monthly. The first month all went well, but on the
second month the old boy bumped up against a sad
discovery. He had taken two 80 pounds out of a
new bag. Two 80 pounds make lOOlbs.; IGOlbs.
from 200 leaves 40, at least it ought to, he mused,
but blame me there wasn’t 20 left in that bag.
Next month he gave out that it was all very well
to have a system of bookkeeping, but he reckoned
that in future, to save the trouble of handling, he
would return to the good old bag style. But it is
when he is putting up a new fence along a road-
paddock, or replacing the division-fences between
him and Ids neighbours, that lie puts the cope-stone,
as it were, on all his
other meanness. In a
usual wire-fence the wires
are put through the mid-
dle of the posts, but old
W.’s fencers are given in-
structions to bore the
holes two inches to one
side —which side, of course
can bo inferred : by this
means he counts on a gain of a solid square post
of land at each panel, and he nearly chuckled him-
self black in the face when he figured out that his
last fence along the Government-road had added
an acre and three-quarters to his estate.
_ The Professional and Literary men of London
give their preference to Esterbkook’s “ Relief ”
Pen. It is a swift and easy writer, and preserves
the characteristics of the hand. Samples free at
all Stationers.
Wolfe’s Schnapps will make you a new man.
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
Many in and out of the city will be pleased to
know that Creelman and Co., photographers in
the Sydney Arcade, have reduced their charges
for photographs. Cabinets now 15s. per dozen.
j
“T.M.T.
“ Home for the Aged Poor,
“ Parkfield-avenue, Birkenhead.
,s The Little Sisters of the Poor have much
pleasure in bearing their testimony as to the
efficacy of Allcock’s Porous Plasters.' They have
seen great benefit derived from them on account
of the relief they so quickly give the sufferer.
They find them a very soothing remedy for all
sorts of pains.—Dec. 24, 1888.”
The Rev. Mark Guy Pea use says;— “l find
them a very breastplate against colds and coughs.”
Mrs. Henry Ward Beecher (widow of the
celebrated preacher) says “ I have found them
a genuine relief for most of the aches and pains
which flesh is heir to.”
George Agustus Sara says, referring to an
attack of bronchitis and asthma he had:—“One
on the chest and another between the shoulder
blades soon set me right again.”
■A. Marvellous Remedy.
The approved External Remedy of the age,
AliLCuC'tt’S POROUS PIASTERS.
Lumbago, Sciatica, Rheumatism, Bronchitis,
Asthma, and all affections of the throat and
lungs ; also in Pains, Sprains, and Strains of
every description, and of great efficacy in Indi-
gestion, if w, rn over the right side of the pit of
the stomach, changing them every ten days.
A Word of Caution.
When you ask for a Porous Plaster, see you get
Alroock’s ; RET NO explanation or solicitation
INDUCE YOU TO ACCEPT A SUBSTITUTE.
Sold by all Chemists, in various sizes, from 1/H
to 22/0.
Shipping.
ftOMPAGNIE DES MESSAGERIES MARI-
v TIMES.
SYDNEY to LONDON.
OVERLAND FROM MARSEILLES via PARIS.
Steamers under postal contract with the Government of
France, calling at MELBOURNE ADELAIDE, KING
GEORGE’S SOUND, MAHE, SUEZ, and PORT SAID.
Passengers hooked to KURRACHEE, BOMBAY,
MAURITIUS, and EAST COAST of AFRICA.
The service is carried on by powerful steamers of 4000
tons and SOOO effective h.p., built expressly for the Aus-
tralian and New Caledonian line, which will be despatched
as follows:
Steamers.
I
i Commander.
Leave Sydney Leave Mel-
at 11 a.m. bourne 4 p.m
YARRA . .jßoulard... . July 25 July 28
AUSTRAL’EN Didier .. .. August 25 'August 28
And thenceforward on the 25th of each month.
Rates of passage-money to Marseilles from £2O to £65,
including table wines and Suez Canal dues on passengers.
RETURN TICKETS issued at the following rates:--
English interpreters meet through passengers for
London on arrival of steamers at Marseilles, and accom-
pany them to Paris and Calais. N.B. Passengers’ luggage
conveyed free of cost from Marseilles to London. For
freight, passage, and further particulars apply at the
Company’s Office, 15 Macquarie-place.
A. CONIL, Principal Agent.
Business Announcements.
Messrs. MAUDE & CO.,
Florists and Nurserymen,
'Of the Royal Exotic Nursery, Peakhurst,)
Have just Opened their
New Premises at 141 King Street, Sydney,
And are prepared to receive orders for CHOICE
PLANTS, FERNS and CUT FLOWERS, and to
undertake all kinds of
Floral Decorations at Seasonable Prices,
\ *
c
*
/ ,1 \\
X /
■i^LJ-y*
y^z.
iy
M
i\W
«£>
•v
Manly Purity
No tongue nor pen can do justice to the esteem
In which the Cuticura Remedies are held by the
thousands upon thousands whose lives have been
made happy by the cure of agonizing, humiliating,
itching, scaly and pimply diseases of the skin,
scalp, and blood, with lose of hair.
Cuticura, the great Skin Cure, and Cuticura
Soap, an exquisite Skin Beautifler, prepared from
it, externally, and Cuticura Resolvent, the new
Blood Purifier, internally, cure every form of skin
and blood disease, from pimples to scrofula.
Having been a sufferer for two years and a half
from a disease caused by a bruise on the leg, and
having been cured by the Cuticura Remedies
when all other methods and remedies failed, I
deem it my duty to recommend them. I visited
Hot Springs to no avail, and tried several doctors
without success, and at last our principal druggist,
Mr. John P. Finlay (to whom I shall ever feel
grateful), spoke to me about Cuticura, and I con-
sented to give them a trial, with the result that I
am perfectly cured. There is now no sore about
me. I think I can show the largest surface where
my sufferings sprang from of any one in the State.
ALEXANDER BEACH, Greenville, Miss.
Sold everywhere. Price, Cuticura, 50c.; Soap,
25c.; Resolvent, $l. Prepared by the Potter
Drug and Chemical Co., Boston, Mass.
JKS* Send for “ How to Cure Skin Diseases,” 64
pages, 50 illustrations, and 100 testimonials.
PIM
FEES, blackheads, red, rough, chapped and
oily skin prevented by Cuticura Boap.
If I had known of the Cuticura Remedies
twenty-eight years ago, it would have saved me
$200.00 (two hundred dollars) and an immense
amount of suffering. My disease (Psoriasis) com-
menced on my head in a spot not larger than a cent.
It spread rapidly all over my body and got under
my nails. The scales would drop off of me all the
time, and my suffering was endless and without
relief. One thousand dollars would not tempt me
to have this disease over again. lam a poor roan,
but feel rich to be relieved of what some of the
doctors said was leprosy, some ringworm, pso-
riasis, etc. I took . . . and . . . Sarsaparillas over
one year and a half, but no cure. I went to two or
throe doctors, and no cure. I cannot praise the
Cuticura Remedies too much. They have made
my skin as clear and free from scales as a baby’s.
All I used of them was three boxes of Ccticitra,
and three bottles of Cuticura Resolvent, and
two cakes of Cuticura Soap. If you had been
here and said you would have cured me for $200.00,
you would have had the money. I looked like the
picture in your book of Psoriasis (picture number
two, “ How to Cure Skin Diseases ”), but now I am
as clear as any person ever was. Through force of
habit I rub my hands over my arms and legs to
scratch once in a while, but to no purpose. I am
all well. I scratched twenty-eight years, and it
got to be a kind of second nature to me. I thank
you a thousand times. Any one who reads this
may write to me and I will answer it.
DENNIS DOWNING, Waterbury, Vt.
HANDS
Soft, •white, and free from chaps and
redness, by using Ccticura Soap.
Address: R. TOWNS & CO., SYDNEY, N.S.W.
TO SHEARERS, STATION HANDS,
FARM HANDS, LABOURERS, ROUST-
ABOUTS, AND BUSHMEN GENERALLY
OF ALL COLONIES.
Th.e Land, Trade,
—AND—
Labour Union of Australia*
Has been established. Its objects are :
L To unite all the above classes in one body, but
with respect to shearers it is intended to apply
to them as station hands, which very many of
them often are.
2. To raise wages, to obtain better tucker, and
men’s huts being supplied.
3. Generally to advocate the interests of its mem-
bers. The strength of the Union will during
next general shearing be put forth in support
of the above objects. That the Union is a
fighting one and bona fide is proved in the
strike against Messrs. Chaffey Bros., Limited.
Men, come and join us ! Though only-lately
started we have proved the metal we are made
of, as the public are aware from the late
reports in the Press.
Entrance Fee and Annual Subscription, ss.
A Strong and Honest Committee of Management
are at the head of affairs.
Committee op Management Chairman, Thomas Allen;
Vice-Chairman, Janies Laverty; Messrs. Kelly, Davis,
Constance, Hoed, Saunders, Curwood, Black, Meldrum,
Thompson, Salsbury, Allen, Fears, and Walton. Trea-
surers: Messrs. M'Oleod, Mills, and Wilcock. Trustees:
Not yet appointed. Auditors: Messrs. Yule (of Williams
and Yule, Storekeepers), and Fred. Fleetwood, Land
Agent and Accountant. Bankers: The National Bank of
Australasia. ■
WE HAVE MONEY AND GRIT.
After this year both the entrance fee and
annual subscription will be largely increased,
but members joining now it is expected will only
hereafter have to pay the annual subscription of
2s. Gd., as they will have the fighting to do at the
first stai’t off.
Prospectus, Members’ List, Tickets, etc., upon
application to the undersigned, by letter or
personally.
Post Office Orders to be made payable to—
ARTHUR TREYMAYNE,
Secretary and Manager,
Offices. Langtree Avenue Hall,
Mildura, Victoria.
Agents in different towns, at sheds, and travel-
ling, will be at once appointed. Business people
in all districts required to act as agents on usual
terms of commission. Apply with references as
above.
“ A Golden Shanty.”
PRICE-ONE SHILLING.
Business Announcements.
WOOL. WOOL.
THE NEW ZEALAND
Loan & Mercantile Agency
COMPANY. LIMITED.
BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Capital, £4,500,000 ... Reserve, £270,000
Wool Season* 1888-89.
Regular Sales of Wool Held Throughout the
Season.
rpHE greatest cave bestowed on the Valuation and the
Displaying and Protecting all Wools entrusted to
the Company for sale, whether from large or small clips.
Growers Advised and Consulted with before Sales
of their Clips are made.
Liberal Cash Advances, where desired, on Wool lieu
of Ensuing Clip, and on Wool and other Produce, whether
for sale in Sydney or shipment to London.
Auction Sales of Sheep Skins, Marsupial
Skins, Hides, Tallow, &c., Held Regularly.
Every Information Supplied on Application.
G. S. CAMPBELL, Manager.
SYDNEY WOOL & GRAIN WAREHOUSES
Bridge and Loftus Streets.
NOTICE.
rtHERRY-BLOSSOM,
\J By the Author of “ Madam’s Ward,” &c.,
Is continued in
17 AMPLY HERALD PART for MAY,
Jl which contains also the continuation of
Q WEN DALE’S ORDEAL.
A NEW NOVEL,
il By the Author of “ A Bitter Reckoning,” &c.
Also, complete Stories, Essays, Answers to
Correspondents, Cookery, Miscellanea, Enigmas,
Charades, Riddles. &c.
17 A MIL Y HERALD PART for MAY.
I The Australasian says
“Tlrs favourite domestic magazine retains all
its old interest and variety. ”
The
17AMILY HERALD may be had in Half-yearly
JT Volumes and in Monthly Parts of all Colonial
Booksellers and Newsagents ; or the Monthly Part
direct from W. Stevens, 421 Strand, London,
England, for 14s. per annum, post free.
London: W. Stevens, 421 Strand; and at all
Newsvendors.


pure spirit- Wolfe’s Schnapps.
The popular liquor—Wolfe’s Schnapps.
Recommended by doctors—Wolfe’s Schnapps.
Wolfe’s Schnapps for lowness of spirits.
Ask for Wolfe’s Schnapps and take no u.lic-r.
Business Announcements.
TURPIN & BRIAN,
Wholesale anti Family Grocers,
623 George Street, Sydney,
ARE THE
CHEAPEST CiItOCEKS In the CUT !
A Trial Solicited.,
WHITE SUGAR, 2k\. per lb.
HOLLER FLOUR, ss. 50lb. bag,
SPERMS, 5(1.,
M AIR’S SPICED & ERIE D H ERR ING S,
(iJ>cl. per tin.
Large Bottle W. SAUCE, Gd.
„ PICKLES, Gd.
COCOA, per packet.
41b. Bar SOAP,' Gd.
NEW DATES, 3d. per lb.
i SARDINES, 3s. 9d. per dozen.
Box TEA, 10s. Gd., good and cheap.
'slb. WHITE SUGAR and lib. TEA, 2s.
NOTE THE ADDRESS:
623~George Street—623
Haymarket, SYDNEY.
(Opposite Square and Compass Hotel.)
Eye - Siglit Restored.
WHY SUFFER We send £auge for testing sight,
a treatise on “Vision,” and all information free. Spec-
tacles of every description from Is. ; Pebbles from ss.
Pilot Field Glass, clear definition five miles, with case.
“Liver” Telescope, with astronomical glass, clear
six miles, 21s. Good going Silver Watches, 255.,
nickio, 12s. (id., 15s. and 2is., guaranteed two years.
W. E. Toose, Optician, 418 Ocorge-street, Sydney.
Awarded Nine Medals at various Exhibitions
, * L 0
from
every flower that
breathes a frasrance
SWEET SCENTS
LOXOTIS OPOPONAX
i FRANGIPANNI PSIDIUM
May be obtained
Of any Chemist or
Perfumer.
Stre«
neicurc of imUnilom: The jcnvlnc t V aijaciL
J&.
6
j
mmMsm
vX
X
WF/A
\uiili
XX
LOTA
185
est
r PHIS valuable Lotion is guaranteed to cure SWELLING
1 and SANDY BLIGHT, INFLAMED EYES and LIDS,
DIMNESS OF SIGHT, &c.- I! writ be found very 1 bene-‘
jfeial and cooling to those who have weak eyes, or whose,
ucik compels them to strain their eyes. Highly
recommended by the leading Oculists.
Mannfaci ured :or;ly by the I'roprietor,
~FT. 3F6.C3£5*53
Dispensing and Manufacturing Chemist,
GEOUGB STREET, SYDNEY.
Wholesale' by (he I’roprietor and all Wholesale Houses. ■
" llstuhluh ■ 1 WS. By ToSt its. Gtt.
Manufacturer of Dr. SOI TUAN’S GOUT and
RHEUMATIC RILLS.
DOWS
EMBROCATION
m
i U-
Jki
f‘i?0LO ,,
IVeVERVWHERE'I
w
SH RACER
b*
£
a
SCIENTIFIC
INSTRUMENT MAKER
TO MACQUARIE PLACE (Opposite Exchange).
A POSITIVE CURE.
nU. BOHANNAN'S Curative Itciurflics for all Privatk,'
Nkrvoor, and Special Complaints. Always reliable;
Pescriptive chart sent, sealed, for two stamps Address
Hotel l’liaiuiacv. Phillip street, Sydney,
N.a.W.
Medical.
31 YORlt STREET, WYNYARD SQUARE, SYDNEY,
P.O. Box 920. This eminent specialist is a graduated
physician of Harwood University, U.S., registered by the
Governments of N.S.W. and N.Z., and has devoted Hi
years to the special studv of CHRONIC, NERVOUS, SKIN
and SPECIAL diseases of MEN and WOMEN. All apply-
ing to him will receive h r s honest opinion of their com-
plaints. No experimenting ;no mercury used. A positive
cure guaranteed or forfeit £'2oo. His vast experience
tells him that where there is no organic disease, and
nothing but an inorganic trouble, or* in other wends, a
conglomeration of symptoms producing a certain result,
there is no reason why it cannot be removed with the
proper remedies: therefore he guarantees. He claims to
be the most-skilful and successful physician in N.S.W. in
his particular speciality, viz.’, the CHRONIC and SPECIAL
DISEASES of MEN "and WOMEN. Examination and
advice free to all. Charges moderate. Office Hours 10
a.in. to 12 a.m.; 2to 1 and 7 to.B pm. Sunday, 10 to
11 a.m. only.
KTervous JUelaility-
Consult Dr. Speer in all cases of NERVOUSNESS through
indiscretion, for , his many years of practice .with this
dreadful disease enables him to remove all traces of it and.
to return the victims to full VIGOUR, HEALTH and
MANHOOD.
N.B.—TWENTY SHILLINGS is sufficient to send for
remedies necessary for tire cure of NERVOUS DEBILITY.
DR. SPEER will forward, post free, at ss. pbr box, or
2ls. tor five boxes, the following celebrated pills: —
1. AMERICAN “ VITAL” PILLS, for nervous debility,
lost vitality, sexual weakness, errors, &c.
2. -AMERICAN “PRIVATE” PILLS, for discharges,
contagious sores and blood diseases.
3. “FEMALE ” PILLS for irregularities and obstruc-
tions.
4. AMERICAN STOMACH, LIVER, and KIDNEY
PILLS, 2s. (id. per box.
ĵ
Ts a -pur?, fragrant, noa-gritiy tooth powder, hi
warranted ire's from acids or other ingredient which
hsstrov the enamel; it whitens tho teeth, prevents and
arrests decay, etrsagtUens the gams, and gives a
pleasing fragrance to the breathe
a scotning, healing and emollient milk for the face
r.-.'lbands, and is most cooling and refreshing to the
Biin In hot climates ; it removes freckles, tan, sunburn,
roughness and redness of tho shin, pimples, cutaneous
eruptions, &0., soothes and heals pncaly heat, stings
of insects, eczema, bums, and all cutaneous irritation
more effectually than any other preparation, and pro-
duces soft fair akin, and a lovely delicate complexion ;
it io warranted harmless, and free from any lead or
uuy vilULUiaif v/*
poisonous ingredients.
ROWLAND'S EUSOIIiA,a fragrant toilet,warranted free from
bismuth or metallic ingredients, which ruin the oom-
pj._s . . »!,»« tint—whito. cream, and ro3 ®- As k
, AUTION.
The extraordinary reputation of Rowland g Macassar
Oil, Kalydor and Odonto, induces some shopkeep ra.
offer spurious imitations under the lure of being cheap,
the principle on which each is
solely to tho knowledge of A. Rowland & Sons, - »
H-non Garden, London, and therefore it is highly
„e“c ssarv to no Macassar Oil Kalydor ot Odonto
except those made by them, and which hear their
name in red ink on the wrappers. __
j
Eucalypte. Oils
zm-)
Ma
m
m
m
m
m
m
>'
Victory Ointments
THE TREE OF LIFE.
mm sSffiSfttS
3T> 11.x\ o scmt H oss,
The Ureal American Athlete. ♦
CURED of IN FLUENT: Vb; using COLEJIANE & SONS’
EUCALYI'TE EXTRACT.
’.WON’T Ri: IPETKIVED.
If you want I lie best. Medicine the world has over pro-
duced, try Colkmanf. & Sons’ Eucalyptk Extract— there
are no ten medicines crpial to it. It is one of Nature’s
greatest gifts to mankind. It is the only known cure for
Asthma, Consumption, Bronchitis, and all affections of
the Chest and Lungs. For: Palpitation of the. Heart,
Gravel and Kidney complaints it bus no equal, , Fevers of
all kinds, Coughs' Colds, Rheumatism, etc., are banished
by its use. Awarded Medals and Diplomas Adelaide,
Sydney and Melbourne, beating all competitors. Singers
and public speakers will find C and Sons’ EucaiiYPT*
I low,v a wonder {W” Bo sure and gel Cousmake and
Sons.
Medical,
Am
KRUPP
A NIC CHWM«2i
1
V^LV.
fS\
y-'^y
PivA
t'
. M-
!S
j
y
DON’T MISS THIS!
What- everyone says is bound to be-true, and young
and old, rich and poor, physician’s who recommend, a "d
patients who try . .
The Krupp Galvanic Chain Belt,
/11 agree :in praising that most scientific of Electro
Therapeutical Appliances. ‘ For Rheumatism it is un-
rivalled. Lumbago at once succumbs to its power. Ibe
Kervous are strengthened and the Debilitated restored to
perfect health and vigour. In short, the appliance is an
unfailing cure for all Nervous, Sexual, or Chronic-Diseases,
■and is GUARANTEED to ABSOLUTELY (JURE, com-
pletely and lastingly, the following complaints:
Dyspepsia, Ncural;;ia,-Fain-» in the Back and (fhest,
Lumbaijo, Catarrh, Rheumatism, Dumb , Ayuc,
Nervous Debility,' Paralysis, Kidney Complaint,
Spinal Disease , Female Weakness, Diseases of the
Liver, Impede nee, Seminal Weakness, Diabetes,
Sciatica,, Atrophy, Gaul Indaje slion, Asthma, Files,
Epilepsy Spermatorrhoea, Specks before the-Lyes,
Excessive Heart Palpitation, Defective Memory.
An Unfailing l in e For Varicocele
It is a PORTABLE BODY BATTERY, and contains
special appliances for botli sexes; therefore, why waste
your money and health hy procuring and taking USELESS
DRUGS? Electricity,’when properly applied, is acknow-
ledged by all leading and unprejudiced physicians to, he
the on I v safe and radical cure for Nervous and Sexual
Diseases, ami the thousands of testimonials received hy
the Krupp Belt Co. from leading personages throughout
Australasia prove (he unquesf enable curative properties
of Elect iici! v as applied bv l he appliance above referred to.
Our confidence in this appliance is so complete, that
we send the Belt cut on trial, and guarantee it
to give perfect satisfaction. For full particulars as to
terms, ole., send for our large illustrated treatise, i'iuvk,
In which these. Bells are .fully illustrated, the action of
electricity on the, nervous system explained, and a lot of
useful inl'clifiaAMueu nervous and sexual diseases given.
This treatise also contains facsimile of testimonials received
from some of our Clients who have tried oiir Belts, the
orininals of three lestimuniuls produced on application.
The prices of the Krupp Galvanic Chain Belt and
Suspensory are from £l. . .
Sole Inventor .... Caru Knurr.
Business Manager . . A. W. Courts ky.
Address all coiminmicaUons to the
Krupp Galvanic Chain Belt Co.,
Box 017, G. 8.0., Sydney, N.S.W.
Remember -The K.O. Chain Belt cures without medicine,
is easy to wear, is sent on approval, and the first cost is
the onlycost.
JNDISFENSAELE p_OR RADIES
AND ALL I'JSnSONS
With _a * Del;cate Skin:
MOUSON'S
COCOA BUTTERSOAP
Cocoa Butter Soap is a real skin-Beautifier, and a balm to
young and old alike.
MOUSON & CO., PERFUMERS & TOILET SOAP MANUFACTURERS,
PR ANKFOHT-ON-TIIE- MAINE.
LONDON! 32 & 33 lIAMHKLL-ST., K.C. PARIS! 29 RUE RADZIWILti*
Full guarantee for perfect purity is offered by the
sole Manufacturers, MousbN & Co.
JULIUS GOLDSCHMIDT & CO.,
231 CLARENCE-ST., SYDNEY,
SOLE AGENTS- FOR AUSTRALASIA.
The British and New South Wales Investment
anil Finanelal Co., limited.
Incorporated under the Companies’ Act, 1874.
Capital, £250,000.
Sydney office: 240 PITT STREET.
T>ILLS' DISCOUNTED and Immediate Advances granted
J > Daily. Country communications promptly attended
to. The following Kates of Interest are allowed for Fixed
Deposits: — - ■ v
With a Guaranteed Bonus on Renewals of ;Tvvelve Months
and over.
Companies,
3 Years
12 Months
0 Months
3 Months
10 per cent,
0 per cent,
s per cent.
7 per cent.
By order of the Board.
W. MCDONALD, Manager.
Citiffl’ Life Assurance Company,
LIMITED.
Capita l ~~ A2IMV.OOO.
llk.m) Ofkk.'k:
21 Ca.sileiea.gh St, Sydney,
W ith Branches and A;rell.cfes tbrmuhmH the O'vrmw.
JSTew Bugiiaesas
IHSJ There were Issued 19,557 Policies
1888 „ „ !. 34,«i87 „
1889 „ „ .. s*,is‘ia „
These figures show the wonderful progress of the
Company and the high esteem placed upon its
liberal dealings by the public.
CLAIMS rVAH>
Immediately on Proof of Death
IAMK.S !*. U A.KVAN, >
WM. ALEX. 3MITU, I
Mai'iiuing’ Director,
fjcactiuy.
A Modern Girl.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
Down in a murky sha r t, whose wooden walls
Dript muddy tears, two men stood face to face,
With muscles interlocked and limbs entwined
in murderous embrace.
Their eyes with passion gleamed, their teeth were
set:
Their breath came fast, like sea-born whirl-
wind’s swirl;
Their voiceless lips were dry, no word came forth-—
Their quarrel was—a girl.
A touzle-headed thing, a miner’s child,
And yet withal a pretty little maid,
Whose smile had left a picture on their hearts
That Time will never fade.
What fools are men ! She cared for neither one.
The glowing sunshine and the flowers and birds
Were more to her than all their brightest smiles,
And all their tender words.
XoBret Harte maiden she, with love intense.
With unkempt hair and garments disarrayed,
And voice as swefit as blackbird’s note —not much,
She was a modern maid.
And yet these men fought on, and strove to kill,
And in the end one knocked the other out.
Then climbed to earth again to claim the girl,
Without a shade of doubt.
But she, like other maidens in this world,
Refused to wed him after all his strife.
So he, like other men, went wrong —and now
She’s someone else’s wife.
THE SLUGGARD.
“SHE SAID.”
* Where are you goidg, by pretty baid ?”
“ I’b goidg for bedicide, atchoo !’’ she said
“ Bay I go with you, by pretty baid?”
“ Cad if you like, atchoo !” she said.
“ What is your father, by pretty baid ?”
“ By feyther’s a based, atchoo !” she said.
“ What is your buther, by pretty baid ?”
* She’s by feyther’s bissis, atchoo !” she said
“ What is the, batter, by pretty baid ?"
“ Idfluedza, by gub ! atchoo !” she said.
“ Thed I caddot giss you, by pretty baid ?”
Giss your owd daughdah, atchoo !” she said.
“ I’b sorry 1 spoke, by pretty baid ?’’
“ Rub add bilk’s bide, atchoo !•” she said.
DIPSO.
The Premier Building Society case is
growing larger and larger, and it doesn't seem to
know where to stop. There are twelve defendants
now and about 12 barristers, and something like
1(> solicitors and about 240 solicitors' clerks ; and
then there are 27 ban isters who are not connected
with the case but have merely dropped in out of
curiosity, and 40 solicitors who have looked in
while passing. The first six barristers about fill
the table, and the other six rise and make unex-
pected assertions all over the court. When Purves,
tI.C., says anything the nearest barrister upheaves
himself and objects. It generally takes him 15
minutes to object thoroughly, and when he is
quite through, the other 11 get up in slow succes-
sion, like a gradual rise in shares, and object, too,
and even then the chances are that there is
another barrister crowded out in the street who
would object if he could only get near enough.
When they all seem to be through the 27 justices
look round with a persecuted expression such as
might have been worn by the 144 men on who n the
tower of Siloam fell, to make sure that the 12 have
quite finished objecting and Purves goes on cursing
the defendants. Before he has gone more than a
hundred yards, however, somebody rises to ask
that a note be made about something, and then
the remaining eleven then ari-e and demand
in a sad, bedridden sort of way that a note
be not made, and when they are all through, Purves
says he doesn’t care whether they make the note
or not, and then the 27 justices make 27 different
notes, and Purves proceeds with fresh vigour. And
in about five minutes it is time for the six men at
the table to object some more, and for the other
six who are embedded in different parts of the
crowd to back them up, and when they have ob-
jected in the last ditch and Purves has snorted
disdainfully in reply, it is about time to go home
and give the proceedings a i-est till next day.
Accordingly, the Bench states that it will now ad-
journ, and from sheer force of habit the sacred
twelve rise up one by one and object.
In Night Sweats and Prostration
USE HOKSFOBD’S ACID PHOSPHATE.
Dr. Chas. Gdtmork, M.R.C.S., 5 Hogarth
road, Kensington, S. W., says; “I have found it
extremely .valuable in the last stages of phthisis,
where exhaustion had set in after the night sweats.
Also in debility and prostration arising from
fevers. In atony of the stomach in dyspepsia it
has done-me good service."
ALWAYS AHEAD.
With it none other can compare,
None other dare compete.
For Pkmei.i/s Ki.oi'h is everywhere
Known to l)e good and sweet.
Reliable Watch Repairs. D,\mis W Co., King-st. Aroad
Jesse Ceilings was discoursing in the
Commons about the ease with which three fami-
lies could be packed away in a tenement flat.
Ejaculated Tanner : “ But where will you put the,
eow
About the fox and grapes. A newspaper
discussion is started in Melbourne as to whether,
foxes eat grapes, audit is not settled' yvt. Tnn
Bulletin bets that foxes do not eat grapes
except, perhaps, as dogs eat grass.
In the stwvnfycli of a 20-foot shark, caught
at Gerfltigoiij? ifX.S.W.) lastweek, were fotmd the
leg of a horse; a bag ofkittens, forty young sharks,'
and a small purse containing altogether about 3s,
One important item lias been omitted. The
remains of an infant wrapped in a copy of the —
well, the usual evening paper.
Have you a cough? Sleepless nights need no
longer trouble you. Ayer's Cherry Pectoral will
stop the cough, allay the inflammation, and induce
repose. It will, moreover, heal the pulmonary
organs and give you health.
Quo of the candidates for S. A. Parliament
at the recent elections was fined £5 last week at
Adelaide Police Court for punching a man in the
h«>ad. And yet they wouldn’t put liiip into the
I louse!


i vAv
m
m
mm
<
/
w/ 2 ? *
A Memory of the Fast.
The discovery of another “ petrified man ” in New
South Wales seems to hold out a hope that some
explorer may yet dig down among the ruins of the
buried past and disinter the remains of the original
Australian so that we may at least form some faint
idea of what that lost, forgotten ancestor was like.
Australia, so far, is almost the only continent which
shows practically no traces of an ancient civilisa-
tion, but this fact is no proof that an ancient
civilisation never existed. Possibly, away down
among the thirsty sands of the interior, there may
yet_ be found some prehistoric city standing just
as it stood 60,000 years ago, when the breath of
calamity came upon it, and the whole show busted
up. Some old legislature may be disinterred there,
and the fossil of the member who was telling the
other member to come outside may be discovered
shaking a stony fist at a stony head that started
back in dismay in the year One, and a gigantic
stalactite that used to be a Premier may be found
rising to a point of order just as death struck him
when he was halfway up. Likely enough the
primeval newspaper office is still there, and in
the upper room the skeleton of the last compositor
stands, still reaching for that ancient comma that
he was going to put into his stick when the sand-
storm and the volcano came along, and he dried
Up and shrivelled with his unfinished paragraph in
his hand. Further down the old, extinct editor
is probably sitting to this day, a mere collection
of rattling bones with a little hair on top, his
sightless eyes still fixed on the article written in a
dead language, in the course of which he jumped
on his “loathsome contemporary” away back in
the buried ages, and stated that the imbecile who
ran the paper across the street had neither sense
nor boots nor grammar nor common honesty, and
that he was drunk half the time and either asleep
or engaged in defrauding orphans the other half.
And in the doorway there rests in peace a shape-
less heap of tatters and fluff that used to be that
festering affliction who signed himself “ A Rate-
payer,” and who fell and died there just as
he was coming in with a communication that
would have filled the whole of the front page, and
in the course of which he drew attention to the
fact that a beggar who infested his street ought
to be taken away and abolished. And if “ A Rate-
payer ’ isn’t there, it is a dead certain thing that
“ Pro Bono Publico” or “ Constant Subscriber” is
there instead ; so it is all the same. Lower still,
in the ground floor of the structure, there may be
traced a gaunt, dried-up thing that used to be the
business manager, with the brass hat that was
popular in that era driven firmly down over his
fleshless skull, seated placidly in front of a heap of
oxide and dry-rot and old nails that was once a
desk, but which retired from its situation as an
article of furniture before the original Pharaoh’s
great-great-very-great grandfather’s remotest an-
cestor was heard of beside the Nile. And along-
side his peaceful, contemplative dust we would
naturally look for a small pile of debris and flinders
and bits of exploded human being—the last re-
mains of the subscriber who dropped in and
wanted an item inserted free just when the great
dust avalanche was rising on the gale to wipe out
him and his item together, on that disastrous
day when the establishment was closed up by
the act of God and the paper didn’t come out
any more. Where is that buried paragraph now,
and what was it all about? Ask the illiterate
kangaroo who has hopped unconcernedly over the
ruined enterprise all through the dull, slow-
moving ages. Ask the wild dog who has scorn-
fully trodden above the lost intelligence of that
extinct journal, or the emu who has roosted for
uncounted centuries on one tough, indigestible
limb on top of the unknown dead, or the remains
of the three citizens who were just coming in with
a large stick apiece and an angry dog to ask the
editor what he meant by the disloyal and
blasphemous observations in his last issue, when
the great catastrophe came upon him, and they
and the three sticks and the dog went down
together to One common grave. Interrogate the
17 x 9 footprints of the primitive policeman who
clumped wearily before the door some 20,000 years
at least before that remote era when the rooster
sassed the holy St. Peter in Judea, and ran in an
old vanished community for tearin’ his uniform in
consequence of which they were fined forty
shekels with the alternative of seven days.
As for the policeman himself he is not to
be found, for his traditional instincts were too
strong for him, and he paused mechanically to
order the cyclone to move on out o’ that, and
before he had collected his thoughts sufficiently to
find out that it was general annihilation that was
the matter, instead of merely an ordinary drunk
using coarse expressions round the corner, a
building fell on him, and he moved on himself,
and became an eternal constable pounding along
heavily in the shadow-land. In the face of these
possibilities who dare assert that Australia has
got no history ? Probably, even before the Deluge
was invented, there was an Australian politician
sneaking round to waylay a small girl in a dark
lane at night, and if the present is any criterion of
the past, it is safe to assert that he was promptly
discharged without a stain on his character, and
that the small girl was severely admonished
and sent to gaol, in company with the seaman who
was afterwards hanged for having a cold in his
head in the presence of a midshipman, and the
cabman who drove a girl that something happened
to eighteen months afterwards.
It is stated that 100 members of the
C. of E. in a North London parish joined the
Church of Rome last Lent, while 500 seceded at
Brighton.
One of Dunedin’s oldest inhabitants, who
is still hale and hearty, has owned one of the best
corner sections in the city ever since the first sale
of town land took place soon after the foundation
of the settlement. The original price was only
£l2 10s., but it is now worth at least £50,000.
When the diggings rush took place a Melbourne
merchant wanted to buy the section and offered
him £lOOO for it. This seemed at the time a
fabulous amount to the owner, who, however, did
not want to sell. “ Gae awa’ wi’ ye, mon,” he
said to the tempter; “Ye canna have come by
your money honestly or ye wadna be sae free |wi
yer thoosands.”
Stanley declares Emin Pasha is a traitor.
The Bulletin is disinclined to believe it. Emin,
from what we have read in the Continental papers,
is an approved unselfish ivory-despiser, a scientist
after the fashion of those grand old spectacled
French and German doctors who love their art
with a love passing that of woman—who despise
money and live in hospitals studying Nature
until they pay Nature’s debt. He is a crank with
a little of Gordon in him, and he has a soul far
above that of the brutal-faced Stanley, whose
hopelessly-ferocious jowl is depicted in the current
London Illustrated. Stanley was the enemy of
England up to the time of this last expedition,
and Bismarck gave him valuable help. A renegade
always will be warm.
An indignant licensed victualler (Melb.)
made a speech, the other day, in which he referred
to a certain obese senior constable, who was de-
tected in giving his lighter comrade a leg up to
peep through some hotel window at a late hour of
night. “The inmates might,” continued the
orator, “ be going to bed at the time, for all the
police knew or cared.” Just as though they didn’t
care ! Not care to see a fine, large barmaid, all
blushes, bright eyes and dimples, in the act of re-
tiring for the night ? Pshaw ! For what then
does the indignant victualler imagine that the
obese officer was holding the other fellow up ?
That he might feel the man above quiver with
suppressed emotion, and so experience a sort of
communicated joy, as you may say. That’s what
the plump peeler was aiming at, dear friends.
A very determined effort was made the
other day by a Sydney daily newspaper proprie-
tary to obtain the services of the gifted Howard
Willoughby (“Timotheus”), of the Argus. Many
Parliamentarians were jubilant when they heard
the rumour, since, though other writers might say
more bitter things about them than “ Timotheus,”
nobody could say as true things. No man in
Melbourne, in Parliament or out of Parliament,
possesses so accurate a knowledge of what has
happened in the House for the last 25 years as
“ Timotheus,” who can both write and bite. The
final upshot of the negotiations, however, is that the
Argus’ Victorian Parliamentary notes will con-
tinue as before to be signed by “ Timotheus.” T.
is a slight, nervous-looking man who walks with
his head rather askew, like a contemplative bird
which he is—and eternally carries two books under
his arm. He has a rather fetching impediment in
his speech, but is marvellously ready with his pen—
one of the neatest ever driven for a newspaper.
The venerable teetotal argument that wine
is spoilt grapes—that had God wished people to
drink alcohol He would have given it to them
direct, is the silliest of bosh, but as the argument
is so frequently shied at one’s head let us enthusi-
astically jump on it for once. God gives people
raw cows, and yet the teetotallers, among whom
there are to be found the most revolting of gluttons
and swizzlers, blasphemously eat grilled steak.
God gave some few of the teetotallers beards, and
yet they shave; God gave us hair —which we
pay other people to clip ! God has given us
feet, the soles of which when used according to
Nature’s plan become as hard as the hob of
Gehenna, and yet Teefotal-bOss Clark blasphe-
mously Wears boots. When We washed black
sand on the West Coast we went without boots for
a year, at the end of which we had on our feet a
hide that would have resisted the broken glass of
a nunnery-wall—and now the hideous wickedness
which prompts us to wear boots finalises us every
two months in a pound or thirty shillings or so.
The way of the transgressor is hard.
A Mr. Napier is calling upon the Cale-
donian Society of Australia to meet together and
consume the festive haggis in commemoration of
the Battle of Bannockburn. This alleged en-
counter took place—if it ever came off—some SGO
years ago, and, in default of trotting out any gal-
lant _ survivors of the problematical transaction,
Napier thinks that their descendants (for every
Scotchman has an ancestor who killed sixteen men
and a boy at Bannockburn) ought to recognise the
fact that “Almighty God, who looks down on the
poor and oppressed, gave victory to Scotland in
the hour of her deepest need.” Any excuse for
getting drunk is worthy of patriotic encourage,
ment; therefore we regret to find that the Ban.
nockburn banquet scheme has been discouraged on
the ground that it might give offence to the
English, who are stated to have lost a number
of progenitors at the hands of sandy-haired
savages on the other side. Let the Cale-
donian Society get the better of their sweet
diffidence on that score. The English, by this
time, are tolerably reconciled to the story of Ban-
nockburn. They don’t care one curse whether
the Scotchmen finished on top or whether Robert
Bruce was an Italian, as latter-day historians are
prepared to prove if they can get orders in ad-
vance for the book. The English, to do them jus-
tice, are equally unconcerned about their “glorious
victories ” at Crecy and Poictiers, and a number
of other stupid old successful blood-sheddings in
which the Scotch took no part. They don’t
believe that William Wallace stood 7ft. Gin., and
ever since Salmon Wilson proved his descent from
Alfred the Great they are firmly convinced that
there wasn’t no sich person. In fact, if the Cale-
donians choose to fix in the middle of Melbourne
a placard announcing that the English were
chawed up at Bannockburn, the first Englishman
who comes along will be pleased to further an-
nounce that it served 'em right.
Read, mark, and let it outwardly reflect
upon you. In a weekly penn’orth of second-hand
London grovel, known as Figaro, we find these
words written: “No one but Mr. Henniker
Heaton can go into ecstacies of delight because
Mr. Goschen is willing to find eighty thousand
pounds towards reducing the postage to India and
the colonies. It will be early enough to express
satisfaction when the Dependencies have agreed to
find their part of the money. ” Observe the Eng-
lish capital D for Dependencies—in which are
lumped the Indian niggers and the Australian
whites:—
To the A.N.A.
Though bravely you may blow about
The lot of things you know about,
Of what avail the Jetting off of gas ?
You sing your grovel tendencies,
And so remain Dependencies,
Yes, born and bred Dependencies—
Alas !
That “Mother Country ” talk on you
Leads O.M.G.’s to walk on you,
You are, in truth, as verdant as tke grass
Your hopes of nationality
Are void of rationality,
Quite void of rationality—
Alas !
The gilded Tories sniggali O,
When little rags like Figaro
Lump II ingland’s poor “possessions ” in a mass,
And prate of her befriendencies
To all of her Dependencies,
Big, double D Dependencies—
Alas !
Exhorting you to love her laws
And reverence her Governors,
Who represent the good old “ ruling class ”
At functions ceremonial,
And dazzle the colonial,
The vulgar, haw I colonial—
Alas !
Our Bulletin which goes about
The seed of wisdom sows about,
To choke the growth of ignorance, so crass ;
But still those grovel tendencies
Are rife in the Dependencies—
God pity the Dependencies !
Alas !


Drink
CADBURY'S COCOA
ABSOLUTELY
PURE,
THEREFORE THE. BEST
USSmM
m
mm
..
t
s,
■%-
%
R2f
/W/iwZww/%.
mt.
m/ /■
ysssy,
i/w/Mm \*&r*
■ /‘K
mm
m
WM
><4
t
o
cgco^
»/
i
SSI
%
The Coming Storm.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Look back on the records of time.
The blood up m history's pages
Flows backward like rivers of crime,
To redden the gloom of the ages—
Humanity struggling with might,
And Poverty choking the by-ways,
While Crime all bedizened and bright
Is cheered by the froth of the highways.
But Hope sounds the inarch of the storm,
That rides in the firmament yoiidoi',
The lightning-rent cloud and its form
The life-giving rain and the thunder.
For hands are held high for a change,
That's prayed for 'mid bitter bred sadness,
In words that are broken and strange.
By men driven almost to madness !
We’ll rally again and again,
Lest the stones of the street should upbraid us,
And vow to no longer remain,
The paupers that custom has made us.
We seek not your millionaires’ dross.
To plunder the spoils of our neighbour ;
But swear by the Christ on the Cross
They’ll rob us no more of our labour !
“The proud man’s contumely.” Oh !
That makes the heart tremble and quiver,
We’ll dismiss to the regions below
To canker for ever and ever;
Its authors we’ll drill into men
And train up the classes that breed them,
And teach to the proud upper-ten
The power of the people that feed them !
SOUTHGATE.
C. L. Mar son, the eccentric parson-friend
of Adelaide barmaids, was married a fortnight ago.
His best girl arrived by mail steamer only two days
before they were fixed and so, having no kind female
friends on the spot, had not her “attention drawn”
to the voluble shepherd’s now historic letter. Ihe
lady is a talented graduate of Cambridge, and will
perhaps tone him down. His letters on the bar-
maid question want editing.
“Bob” Lowe—“ pink-eyed Bob”—(now
Lord Sherbrooke) when at the N.S.W. Bar was
retained to defend a well-to-do man on a charge of
wife-murder. The case was intricate, and in order
to perfect himself Lowe went through a course of
anatomical study. At the trial he—«■ hi Purves
in the Berth case—astounded the surgeons with
the extent of his knowledge, anti made altogether
such a brilliant defence that his client was
acquitted. On leaving court the client, beaming
with delight, put out his hand to “ shake.” Bob
drew himself up to bis tallest and frigidly said ;
“Excuse me, I was paid to defend you and I did,
but I consider you guilty all the same.”
When the law-makers of New South Wales
start in earnest to refix the criminal code it might
perhaps be worth while to take a glance at the
Swedish methods and thereby gather a few new
idea«. In Sweden nobody can be executed with-
out his own permission. He may be sentenced to
death as in other lands, but the sentence cannot
be carried out till he confesses, and if he doesn't
thirst to be executed he doesn’t confess. Ihe
criminal who simply lies low and says nothing
remains in prison tin ho cith'"- dies of
causes or gets tired of it and decides to have the
proceedings cut short. In Sweden, as a rule, the
judge finds the verdict and passes the sentence as
well, while the-jury look on and say nothing. Ihe
reason of this is that the aggressive cussedness of
tfio nation is such that no two Swedes ever agreed
about anything unless it was- for the express
purpose of aggravating two other Swedes who took
an opposite view of the case, and when twelve
Swedes are put into a jury-box to think over a
question which has only two sides to it, they at
once divide into two parties of six each, and the
only tli ng that aggravates them is that each one
is only able to contradict six men when ho -is
pining to contradict eleven. It hurts his feelings
to have to agree with, five other Swedes, and and
there were twelve possible views of the case the\
would take one eaeli and feel happy. The Swedish
■jury 5 however, is allowed. to interpose find jvnnul
the judge’s verdict, provided it opposes him u.i-
auimouTy, and the pleasure of contradicting such
a high functionary leaxls it at times to sink all
internal differences. The only person in the court
who doesn’t contradict anybody is the judges
clerk, and he isn’t allowed to speak at all. J ins
system is said to work well, and at all events
somebody, if only out of pure devilment, is sure to
give the prisoner a show.
“A man named James Reeves while fish-
ing upon the rocks at Point Piper, Sydney, hauled
in the decomposed leg of a human being.
Sydney Paper.
Much damage has been done by night to
some ritualistic church-furniture at St. Mark’s,
Sydney. Notwithstanding the abstraction of a
silver cruet, it looks as if the act were that of some
Low Church Savonarola.
Purves went in with such gusto for the
attackon thePremier Permanents, that peoplecould
not imagine his being retained for the defence a
possibility. Yet he might just as easily have been
standing for Nimrod, Minims, Dow, or Gourlay.
Symo has a general retainer for Purves and Sam
Gillott, and it is a wonder the Native was not
secured for Gourlay. Syme, is evidently not the
keeper of 1 1 is alleged relation.
Judge Quinlan, of the Victorian County
Court, who is said to bo dying at Florence, was,
before Ids admission to the Bar, editor of the
.• .VictortAN, a weekly journal long since defunct,
Quinlan’s practice seldom got beyond tint County
Court, excepting, perhaps, on one occasion, when
he had to prosecute an appeal in the Supremo
Court. In the course of his address ho incidentally
remarked that there had'been a “learned ’ argu-
ment on tlm, matter before Judge Cope. “ A
learned argument,” said Fellows, who opposed ;
“ just imagine a learned argument before Judge
Cope !”
An elderly native gentleman, with an ex-
pression of concentrated rage that extends right
down to his feet, is prowling round the pleasant
little town of Napier (X.Z.), and making the nine-
teenth century hideous with the story of the ifi-
dignity heaped: upon him by the pakeha His
narrative is somewhat wild and incoherent, and it
is garnished with curses and adorned with profuse
and copious blasphemy, but so far as can be made
out this.injured son of the soil awoke one morning
about three weeks ago, and found himself suffer-
ing - from stomach-ache in his ancestral halls, and
called out wildly for assistance. Then he rose
painfully, and clothing himself in his boots and
the shadow of his departed hat, he went out to
seek .medical, aid. A friend who was supposed to
be acquainted with the labyrinth of the English
language went along with him to explain the
situation to the strange white man who kept evil-
smelling substances corked up in bottles, and who
went out and looked at people when they were ill
and then . sued their executors for 10s. 6x1.
after they were dead; and he explained the
matter with such vigour and eloquence
that the doctor diagnosed the case as one
of rheumatism in both feet, and ordered the suf-
ferer to put the affected place in a bowl of hot
water and to wear large easy boots on the injured
organ ; and he also gave him a bottle of lotion of
such strength that the cork alone was likely to
prove fatal if looked at with the naked eye. The
interpreter took in these directions, and told the
invalid that he was to soak his chest in a saucer
and wear shoes on (iis stomach and swalloyv the
lotion in one dose, and the two guileless aborigines
departed lost in wonder at the depth of the white
man’s erudition. But half an hour latex - there was
a wild, appa’ling clamour around the patient's Re-
sidence, and the invalid was observed leaping
madly- up in the air and kicking the leaves and
bark off the surrounding trees to a height of 14
feet. lie also shrieked considerably, and ran
round the house a hundred and eighty times in 35
seconds, and cursed the day he was born, and
then he lay down and hung op to the grass, and
swore for 75 minutes without- stopping, and when
the gratified interpreter approached, under the
impression that his friend was praising God
for his recovery he struck out backwards
with his foot and concussed that smiling person in
the chest with such force that he went home
slowly on all fours and coughed for three days
and three nights. Then the assembled crowd
carried a motion that eight men should be selected
to sit on a dangerous lunatic, but just at this
point a fresh idea seemed to strike the sufferer,
for he got up and fled down the road towards the
doctor’s house with such velocity that all his
anxious friends could see of him was a cloud of
dust and something that looked like a malformed
note of interrogation galloping through the centre
of it. He reached the home of tiro Aryan healer
in the shortest time on record, and carried the
fragments of the door in with him ; and the
doctor, roused into sudden haste by 1 he sound of
furniture being broken wholesale and by a general
smash of china ornaments, came at once to attend
on him and found him plupging and gambolling
and frisking on the table and leaping on the keys
of the piano with both ieet. In the course of
three-quarters of an hour, however, and after
much active dodging on the part of the phy-
sician, the native assumed an attitude of com-
parative calm among the debris- that is to say,
he merely turned a series of rapid somersaults
interspersed with convulsions, and threw his feet
out in all directions; and an explanation com-
menced. It didn’t get on very well,' however.
The patient slapped himself violently in the organ
he digested his food with, and the doctor diagnosed
the case at a safe distance as one of severe bilious-
ness. Then he went through a pantomime exhi-
bition to imply that he had drunk something, and
the doctor concluded it was a bad specimen of
delirium tremens. Next he drew attention to his
feet, and the terrified physician set it down to
corns, and decided that this native was suffering
from a complication of ailments. Finally, how-
ever, he exhibited his mouth, and then a glad
smile of intelligence suddenly spread over the
healer’s countenance, and he hacked his patient
into a chair, and drew out the only tooth lie had
left, and told him it would be 2s. fkh, and bade
him go on his way with a sentiment of thankful-
ness and rejoicing pervading his entire frame.
But instead of doing this, the native rose and
pervaded the entire house with such a murderous
glare in his eye that the doctor left unexpectedly
by the back door, and he rejoiced to such an
extent that it took four policemen to throw him
into the road, where he lay for some hours until a
recovery set in. Then he crawled home and
solemnly renounced the doctrines of Christianity,
and cast olf his allegiance to the British crown,
and passed a resolution in favour of the ancient
way of doing things as practised by his forefathers,
and decided by a large majority that cannibalism
ought to be re-established at an early _ date.
And that is why an elderly Maori with a
discontented expression now infests the suburbs
of Napier, and holds forth on the foolish-
ness of the pakeha medicine-man who bids
his patient to put his client in a saucer of hot
water, and to wear an easy pair of boots on his
stomach, and takes out the only tooth he has left,
and wants to charge him for the plunder of that
solitary ornament, and then throws him out to
heal himself as lotiet he can in the middle of the
public highway. And it is also for the same
reason that a local interpreter only goes out by
night, and then keeps to the most secluded streets
he can find, and proposes to swear an information
to the effect that he is in constant fear of his life
on account of an ungrateful natiye vyho had the
stomach-ache and has since gone on in a manner
that is dreadful to contemplate.
THE LEG AT POINT PIPER.
Give us the banjo, and gaily we’ll sing
(In verses which might have been shorter),
Concerning the owner of this pretty tiling
The fisherman found in the water ;
Did it belong to a wrinkled old d une,
Or a damsel of beauty much riper ?
Was it a good ’tin, or did it go lame,
The leg Jimmy caught at Point Piper ?
Has it been tickled by nymphs of the wave—
The mermaids with tresses bright yellow '.
Far, far away, in wattle-grown grave,
Have relatives buried its fellow 1 _
Perhaps it belonged to a party whose wife
Of her tears was a sorrowful wiper,
Until she was fixed with a “ second for life,
Whose leg beat the one at Point Piper.
What food for conjecture we find in the limb.
As here we sit sipping our toddy 1
O, was it attached to a her or a him,
And what was the size of the body ?
Its age and its sex are matters for doubt,
Or doctors so critical (hyper)
We just want to know if it suffered from gout,
The leg Jimmy caught at Point Piper.
Perhaps it belonged to a bard like ourself
(A cross between Homer and Milton) ;
Perhaps, if the knee is the colour of delf,
To a braw, bonnie lad with a kilt on ;
Perhaps it belonged to a heart-broken swain,
Or else to a dissolute “ swiper ’
Who jumped in the sea when he cot ’em again,
4, ml fattened a shark at Point Piper.
But whether the owner was aged or young,
Or she, or himself still be living,
(When one is drowned why one cannot be hung),
Affects not the toast we are giving.
You’ll find in the corner a neat little keg
Containing the gin of de Kuyper—
Fill up your glasses, and drink to the Leg,
TN-. p'. r Jimmv caught at Point P’’'--!


G-r eat Medical Reform!
Consult (FREE) HERR RASSMUBSEN, the Celebrated Danish Herbalist,
Expert Specialist in all Private Complaints, Barrenness and Nervous Diseases.
w.
s
DENMARK
S^/JTY^
%
%
%
%
%
%
\
%
\i
\
%
%
&
j
0
»<
Ij
V
k
j
'!0
itH,
✓
0 %
j
i
&
#
(0
j
Items
iTAiuy
A Guaranteed Cure
for
Nervous Debii ity and
Lo st Vitality.
225. 6d. per Course.
Smaller Box ss. 6d.
Outxly lOCoi-to sails!; xx3l Australia
That has received “Gold Medal ” for Great Cures Performed, and is Honourably Mentioned in the “Centennial History of New South Wales”
tor Great Herbal Discoveries ; and who can prove that he has CURED OVER 20,000 PATIENTS.
Sole Proprietor and Discoverer of the Celebrated
DEKTMARK VITALITY FILLS, Reg-lsterea,
Which have been the means of Curing so many Thousands of Sufferers from Nervous Debility, Lost Vitality, Errors, Weakness, Despondency,
Impure Blood. 225. 6d. per Course ; Smaller Box, ss. 6d.
C3ro3txxa.i.xxG Testiisioiiials.
To HERR RASSMUSSEN.— Dear Sir,—This is to certify that you
cured me of a very serious blood disease, after many doctors had
failed. - JOHN REYNOLDS, Chappel-street, Leichhardt, Sydney.
To HERR RASSMUSSEN, the celebrated Danish Herbalist—Dea*-
Benefactor, — I have much pleasure to inform the public tliat you
cured my wife of an internal complaint of a very serious nature after
all the doctors had given her up.—ARCHIBALD MACFARLANF
Eden Cottage, Barney-street, Armidale.
To HERR RASSMUSSEN, Specialist in Nervous Diseases. ' Dear
Sir,— l hereby thank you for the great cure you performed on me for
a very complicated nervous affection, and I shall always recommend
you to sufferers from Nervous Debility.—PHlLLlP STEAD, 54 Parra-
matta-road, Annandaie, Sydney.
To HERR RASSMUSSEN, Danish Herbalist.—Dear Sir and Bene-
factor,—lt gives me great pleasure to testify to your wonderful skill
m the treatment of Disease. You cured me of a terrible complaint
after the doctors gave me up, and although it is four years since, I am
u S 4^QrflxT V^ r- 1 !*l aII recommend you to all.—Yours, gratefully, A.
RAMSDEN, Great iV estern Coffee Palace, Castlereagh-street, Sydney.
, To RASSMUSSEN, Specialist in Nervous Diseases.—Dear
Sir, I hereby certify that I have been under your skilful treatment
tor a very obstinate case of nervous debility, and that you cured me
Junctioif N°S W° f y ° Ur Vitality Pllls -— D - M‘NEILL, Hornsby
k
“‘f'ili
Opinions of the Freas;
o
It is a well-known fact that HERR RASSMUSSEN, the Celebrated
Danish Herbalist, has performed many great cures during the past few
years, as his numerous testimonials will prove.—Sydney Bulletin.
HERR RASSMUSSEN. —We have been shown some excellent Testi-
monials of the great cures performed by Herr Rassmussen, the cele-
brated Danish Herbalist. — Australian Star.
HERR RASSMUSSEN has now been established in the colonies
for 10 years.— Sunday Times, April 28, 1888.
HERR RASSMUSSEN has become a celebrity in the curing of all
diseases of the nervous system. His name has become a wonder
throughout the Southern Hemisphere. He was presented with a Gold
Medal for some of his miraculous cures. —Balmain Leader, May 12,1888.
HERR RASSMUSSEN.—The remarkable cures which he has effected
are pretty generally known. —Balmain Observer, April 28, 1888.
We are perpetually receiving letters ironi HRRR RASSMUSSEN’S
cured patients requesting us to make known to the public the wonder-
ful medical skill this remarkable man possesses, and he has just been
presented with a Gold Medal from several of his cured patients.
. —Sydney Weekly News, May 26, 1887.
■ H - err Rassmuasen’s Herbal Remetiies. (REGISTERED.)
nFVMARK FF^ATF Y p PILLS ° Uaranteed t 0 CUrB Nervous Debilifc y. Lost Vitality, Errors of Youth and Despondency. Price, 225. 6d. per full course ; small box, ss. 6d.
1 Price, 225. 6d. smal^box' ^ll^ 11 * 66 ' 1 t 0 CUI6 all COmplaints P eculiar to Females, Irregularities, and eradicates complaints which cause barrenness.
LOCK CURE PILLS. Guaranteed to Cure all diseases of the blood, discharges, sores, and strictures. Price, 225. 6d. per course ; small box, ss. 6d.
CONSULTATION AND ADVICE FREE.
All the above remedies are made of PURE
free, on receipt of 4d stamped addressed envelope.
HERBS, and are forwarded unobserved. A valuable treatise on Nervous Debility, Private Complaints, and Barrenness sent
Consultation personally or by post, free. Patients are examined with the aid of the Microscope.
Address: - Herr RASSMUSSEN the Danish Herbalist,
Corner Cordon-street & Park-road, Pacld.in.gton, Sydney.
TRAMS —Take Paddington Tram to Paddington Tram Waiting-room.
I
<< ¥ S.
%
DENMARK
m
Mm
%
%
%
&
\
%
%
\
%
&
'I.
%\
<4 -
t
&
%
R
w
k
y:
j
j
0
tfj/
55
io'
,n?J l
f
r
0*
j
IBB'
j
A Guaranteed Cure
for
Nervous Debility and
Lost Vitality.
225. Cd. per Course.
Smaller Box os. (id.
ararm i v s~a>r~r>t —--.
BALDWIN DEY AIR EEFRI6EEATOE.
♦»♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦»♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦ .
Beware of the many so-called Dry Air Refrigerators advertised by unscrupulous Manufacturers and Dealers, intending
to deceive the public and trade upon our reputation. This is the original and celebrated Dry Air Refrigerator, made
famous by its successful competition at the leading Exhibitions in the United States for the past Six Years, known as
the Baldwin Dry Air Refrigerator.
WHITE MOUNTAIN FREEZERS,- ICE MILK CANS, MIXERS,
LEMON SQUEEZERS, &c, &c.
M‘LEAN BROS. " R IGG,~ hI’D.,
512 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
rpHE COLONIAL MUTUAL LIFE ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIM ITED.
BRANCHES THROUGHOUT THE COLONIES AND THE UNITED KINGDOM.
Policies issued under the Ordinary, Motiifiecl Tontine and Mortuary Diviclencl Systems.
HEALTH for the MILLION !
Mild, Aperient, Antihilious
Pills, purely vegetable
in their composition,
are particularly recommended to either sex, where a
i nnnvionf 4 o romiirofl TIIPCP Hillff
tUC iitvi iiivuun y . -
gentle, but effective aperient is required. These Pills
are invaluable for all complaints of the Stomach and
Liver, speedily removing sick headache, biliousness,
Indigestion, etc., and cleansing the
blood of all impurities. To Ladies
these pills will be found invaluable.
One trial is sufficient to prove their vast superiority
over all others. Sold by all Chemists and Storekeepers.
Price Is. per box. Prepared solely by John Watson,
Chemist, George Street, Sydney.
WATSON'S
PILLS
Wholesale Agents:—
Messrs. Elliott Bros., S. Hoeenung & Co., Australian
Drug Co., Fibldham Gothele & Co., Myers & Solomon,
Pillocii & Co. and J. R. Love & Co.
-THE-
Electro-Magnetic
Massage Institute,
For the cure of —
Rheumatism Lumbago, Sciatica, Debility,
Gouty and Neuealgio Affections,
Musculab and Nervous Disorders
All Cases under Medical Supervision. Ladies
attended by specially-trained Nurses.
94 ♦ DARLING 11 DUST * ROAD,
SYDNEY.
Attendance : 9 to 1 a.m. ; 7 to 10 p.m.
Process Protected by Letters Patent.
pULVERMACHER’S WORLD-
* FAMED GALVANIC BELTS
FOR THE CURE OF
Nervous Exhaustion and Debility, Sciatica,
Lumbago, Rheumatism, &c„
Have received Testimonials from Three
Physicians to Her Majesty the Queen and
the Leading Physicians of many London Hospi-
tals, including over Forty Members of the Royal
College of Physicians of London.
For full Price-list and particulars, see new pam-
phlet “Galvanism: Nature’s Chief Restorer of
Impaired Vital Energy.” Pamphlets Free.
Sole Agents for N.S.W.,
FROST <Sc SHIPHAM
ELECTRICIANS,
474 & 587 George Street, Sydney.
Sole Agents for Victoria:
ALLISON BROS., 477 Collins-strbbt West, Melbourne.
A. BOWMAH’S
LONDON MADE
Porpoi e Hide Boots
Are Reduced from 30s. to 21s.
249 PITT ST., SYDNEY, Near Tattersall's.
Porpoise Hide Wears Twice as Long
as any other Leather.
They are noted all over London,
Birmingham and Liverpool.
London Fashions,
AND
Fresh Goods Every Fortnight.
Trade Supplied Wholesale at a Great Advantage.
(Late Gunsler’s Cafe)
175 Pitt Street, Sydney,
\\ ISH their former Patrons and the Public Generally to know that their Saloons have been Entirely Reorganised, and shall be glad if they will oive
their new cusine a trial. JAMES 0- MAE.QUAND, Manager-


GROTH
PAPER-HANGINGS,
Oiis,Coloußs 4 Paints
Wall papers fro/v! s°roll
P/AI
529 George
Brlckf/eld H/Ll.
New south w ales floods relief
FUND.
The Central Committee of the New South Wales
Floods Relief Fund, having relieved cases of tem-
porary distress in Sydney, and having now agreed
on the nature of the losses for which compensation
is to be given, are desirous that the subscribed
funds should be distributed as speedily as possible
amongst the sufferers.
With this object in view, the Central Committee
respectfully asks Magistrates or other residents in
all the flooded districts of New South Wales to
have Committees appointed to inquire into the
losses sustained; and where no Committee has
been appointed, the Central Committee requests
Police and other Magistrate* to kindly undertake
this duty ; and on their notifying their acceptance
of the po ition, printed forms for collecting in-
formation as to losses su taiued will be imme-
diately forwarded.
In the event of claimants being unable (from
illness, distance or any spe ial cause) to present
their claims to the local Committees or Magis-
trates, they may forward such claims direct to the
Central Committee in Sydney.
T. A. DIBBS
J. BROOMFIELD
A. FORSYTH
1
Hon. Treasurers.
JOHN YOUNG 1
EDWARD J. H. KNAPPJ
Hon.
Sees.
Offices : Town Hall.
Sydney, June 9, 1890.
NO
DON’T
WASTE
IT
You Will most certainly save 3loney,
Time, and Anxiety by placing all your
Write
to
Advertising in our
hands.
F. T. WIMBLE & CO.,
Advertising Experts,
569 to 373 George St., Syd. Send for Pamphlet
“ How to advertise and why ? ” 1 Ith Edition.
I'yiSTORY OF BOTANY BAY.
PRICE-ONE SHILLING.
T
ARTHUR GRAY & GO.,
TEA IMPORTERS
AND
BLENDERS,
FOOCHOW and SYDNEY.
Office and Sample Rooms:
385 Pitt Street, Sydney.
j
tST Agents Wanted in every Town through ut
the Colony.
UMBRELLAS
RE-COVE R£ a
STUDY ECONOMY
and
Have your Umbrella Frame#
Re-Covered, and your
Parasols Re-Lined and made
Equal to New, at
J. SULLIVAN’S,
541 George Street,
Beickfikld Hill, Sydnbt,
between
Liverpool & Bathurst Sts.,
Parasols made to match Cos-
tumes. Repairs neatly done.
Federated Squatters
—AND—
Farmers’ Co-Operative Association of Australasia, Limited,
GIBGULAR Q,TJ-A,AT, SYDInTEY .
WOOL and PRODUCE BROKERS, STOCK and STATION AGENTS.
Advances Made and Deposits Received at Current Rates. Correspondence Invited.
ALLAN A. MARSHALL & GO.,
Engineers, Coppersmiths, Brass and Bell Founders,
Finishers, Plumbers, Ship & General Smiths,
Gasfitters, Art Medieval Metal Worker
ROLLER SKATES (any make) with BRASS «r WOOUEJi WHEELS.
Verity's Gas Fires, Heaters and Ventilators at greatly Reduced Prices—ll,ooo Fires already in use
Imuorters and Manufacturers of Hiving Gear, Yacht and Boat Work of every description in
Iron or Brass, Ships’ Single and Double Action Valve Closets, Fire Hydrants, Hose and all appliances
lion Accord WorJtsTV Macquarie Place, Sydney.
• •
HIGHLY NUTRITIVE
oa
MAY Bfc UHTAINhU IN LABLLLLU I INS Oft PACKETS THRUUGHQLir.TiiE COLONY,
NOW ACKNOWLEDGED
THE BEST
IN THE MARKET
ĵ
M.W.t C«
SOLD
EVERYWHERE
Sole Agents: JAMES MOIR&CO., 68Margaret-st, Sydney
PROBLEM OF TO-DAY -WHERE CAN WE GET GOOD
BOOTS?—SOLVED AT LAST.
B. FREIXTCH
(The French of years ago)
Can supply Residents here with Boots better made than
ever. Boots that must wear well and give satisfaction.
Send your orders then to 82 Oxford Street, and be sure
to enclose Sizes and Remittance, when your parcel will be
sent at once by Post, Rail, or Steamer.
Notice Prices for Boots that look well, wear well
and fit well.
Children’s Elastic-sides, 2/-, 2/11, 3/6, 4/-, 4/6, etc. \ Best
Men’s & Youths’ ditto, 5/6, 6/-, 6/6, 7/6, 8/6, etc. / Boots
Men’s & Boys’ Bluchers, 2/11, 4/-, 5/-, 6/-, best ever made.
A Line of Stylish Laced Boots for Best Wear
(Boys’, Youths’ and Men’s Sizes).
ENGLISH BOOTS for LADIES, CHILDREN, ©to..
Sent as ordered. Lowest Price.
Satisfaction given or Money Returned.
Note the Address:
ECLIPSE BOOT CO.,
83 Oxford Street, SYDNEY.
E. French, Manager
O. C. L.
VERY = OLD = SPECIAL
SCOTCH = WHISKY.
<:>
DISTILLERIES CO. (Limited).
JOHN BUCK HA M,
449 ELIZABETH STREET, MELBOURNE.
rpENT, Tarpaulin, and Waterproof Covei
i Manufacturer. Horse Rugs, Loin Covers,
Oilskin Coals, Cab Apron-, Marquees (with at
without floor ng and flags) for sale or hire.
JOHN BUCKHAM MELBOURNE.
Oldest established house in the trade.
When ordering please mention this paper.]
RAIN'S FAMILY Sc COMMERCIAL HOTEL
PRINCES STREET,
(Opposite G.P.0.)
ID TJ ZEST IE ZD I ILL, ZET.Z-
ALEX. I*4 in E K
Froprietw
consult DR PERRY, M.R.C.S., L.S.A., etc.
(REGISTERED BY THE MEDICAL BOARD OF NEW SOUTH WALES),
Date House Surgeon to tlie Great Northern Hospital, Caledonian Road, London,
SPECIALIST in the Treatment of Diseases of the
Reproductive Organs and Nervous Complaints .
Dr. PERRY was induced to publicly advertise himself as a
Specialist in this branch of the profession in consequence of the number
of persons suffering from diseases of this nature remaining uncured ; and
this is not surprising, when it is remeu bend, in consequence of the
general dislike of the profession to undertake these cases, the public
health has suffered, because the majority of p. rsons advertising to treat
these diseases, and calling themselves Doctors, Professors, etc.,
Are Neither the One nor the Other,
and exist chiefly because DULY Ql ALIFIED MEDICAL I KAC-
TITIONERS have not occupied the field.
Patients can, therefore, readily see the advantage of being treated
by a practitioner who has gone through a thorough Medical, Surgical and
Anatomical Training in the best hospitals ; and the Doctor argues that,
although it may be considered contrary to antiquated medical etiquette
to so advertise, yet he is promoting the usefulness and thk dignity of
the profession more by searching out and relieving this class of disease
than by leaving them severely alone to the care of men who, however good
their intentions, have neither the opportunities or advantages of a regular
medical training to become acquainted with the best methods of treating
these complex forms of disease.
K
ELMLCV
GMWfi
XDx- Jb-’ jtj ZE^ZES^T"
Will be happy to advise persons suffering from these
diseases, and as, in many cases,
Nothing tout the observance of a few simple directions
as to Self-Management
is required to place the patient in a healthy state, all who
are in any way affected should consult him, and thus have
the benefit of his advice and experience.
(t)
Diabetes successfully treated by a totally new
method of Cutaneous Medication.
Tumours also specially treated by successful method.
ALL CASES GUARANTEED.
Varicocele Quickly axidL Successfully Treated without Operation.
COXTSTJLTJVTIOXT -XXOTJIRS :
From 10 a,in. to 4 |».m each week day, and from 7to !) p.m on Tuesday and Saturday evenings
All Consultations, either by Letter or Personally, ABSOLUTELY FREE.
Du 1-EKRY TREATS HIS PATIENTS PERSONALLY, AND INVITES PUBLIC INVESTIGATION INTO HIS CREDENTIALS.
Note address- ESITIIeV HOIISC, 151 Elizabeth Street, SYDNEY.
S# m~ MENTION THIS PAPER.


Medical.
m
EUREKA
ELECTRIC
BELTh
.\w s.N^vV
y
kcK
\
70
Nh,
s-»
y
A NEVER FAILING CURE FOR ALL,
DISEASES OF THE NERVOUS SYSTEM.
Complete -with Suspensory Appliances from £l. 0. 0 and
upwards. This famous Electric Magnetic Belt will cure
NERVOUS DEBILITY, Seminal Debility, Impotence,
and all weakness caused by indiscretion. J ains in the
Back, Lumbago, Giddiness, Rheumatism, Kidney and
Bladder complaints, and in fact any disease of the Nervous
Pystem. The currents are steady and constantly felt by
the wearer. It has great improvements over all other
belts, we are willing to furnish those belts on 30 days
trial, and accept payment after they have proved them-
selves what we represent them to be. Those belts are
made for the specific purpose of producing a continuous,
mild, soothing current of electricity through all the weak-
ened parts, restoring them to health and vigorous strength,
even the worst case permanently cured in three months.
It is more convenient to wear than any other Belt.
A Book illustrated, containing full information and testi-
monials from prominent people throughout Australia,
and informing -persons how they may obtain these belts
without paying for them until they have proved them com-
petent to cure any disease of the Nervous System, will be
forwarded to any address on receipt of a 2d stamp far
postage, '
AddressVOLTAIC BELT COMPANY
Box 916, G. P, 0., Sydney*
Dr. James B. Llewellyn,
(registered)
SPECIALIST in
GENITO-URIMEY DISEASES,
May be CONSULTED at
—3 25 LONSDALE STREET—
(between Swanston ct‘ Elizabeth SUL),
MELBOURNE.
Consulting Hours—lo to 2; 7to 9. Sunday
Mornings, 10 to 11.
All Personal Consultations are free; by letter the
Pee is £l, which is inclusive of medicines.
Tricopherous
for the
HAIR a SKIN
An elegant dressing ex-
quisitely perfumed, re-
moves all impurities from
the scalp, prevents bald-
ness and gray hair, and causes the hair to grow
Thick. Soft and Beautiful. Infallible for curing
eruptions, diseases of the skin, glands and muscles,
and quickly healing cuts, burns, bruises, sprains, &c.
Caution.—None genuine without the trade-mark of
Barclay & Co,, New York, affixed to each bottle.
j
j
j
n
BarryS
Pearl
Cream
Cforthe
OMPLEXION
Imparts to the darkest skin a clear, natural white,
tinged with thefaintest rose-blush. Speedily removes
\V rnikles, Freckles, Sunburn and Tan, and mantles
the faded cheek with youthful bloom and beauty.
CAUTION.—None genuine without the trade mark
of Barclay & Co., New York, affixed to each bottle
A BLESSING IN EVERY FAMILY.
HOLLOWAY'S PILLS AND OINTMENT.
There is not a country in the civilised world where
t he healing virtues of thes m grand medicines have not been
recognised by thousands of sufferers. In all the ordinary
ailments of humanity their beneficent action is at once
recognised. Fullest directions are supplied for their use
in,every disease. IF YOU SUFFER, TRY THEM. Manu-
factured only at 78 New Oxforu-st., London. Pur-
chasers should looh to the Label on the Boxes and Pots.
If the address is not 623 Oxford-street. London, they are
spurious. ’ •
OONG SHAN TEA HOUSE
NOW OPEN.
Quong Tart & Co.’s
EXTENSIVE NEW PREMISES
(Nearly opposite Theatre Royal).
FIRST-CLASS GRILLS,
As well as all kinds of Refreshments, may
be obtained-from 7.30 a.m. to 11,30 p.m.
CUP OF,-DELICIOUS TEA.
ICED DRINKS'OF ALL KINDS, &o.
The rooms are ,splendidly furnished and
fitted up. In addition to the large and
well-appointed Refreshment Rooms,
. gentlemen will find-on the Second Floor
Commodious and Comfortable Smoking
and Conversation Rooms, furnished with
1 Chess, Draughts, &c., &c.
TO THE LADIES.
On the I irst Floor will be tound Nice
1 I'iyiite Room for Ladies, convenient for
Writing, Reading, &c., also Retiring
Looms and Lavatory, with both hot and
cold water,laid on. Inspection Invited.
Finest Teas Imported—Packets £lb. and
upwards supplied. Orders promptly at-
tended to.
7 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
Q
U
o
N
G
T
A
R
T
C
O
M
P
A
N
Y
Medical.
A WONDERFUL MEDICINE.
Beecham’s Pills
Are universally admitted
to be worth a Guinea
a Box for bilious
and nervous disorders,
such as wind and pain in
the stomach, sick head-
ache, giddiness, fulness
and swelling after meals,
dizziness, and drowsiness,
cold chills, flushings of
heat, loss of appetite,
shortness of breath, oos-
tivencss, scurvy’ blotches
on the skin,” disturbed
sleep, frightful dreams,
and all nervous and trem-
bling sensations, &o. Tire
first dose will give relief
„„„ . in twenty minutes. Every
rer , ls earnestly invited to try one box of these
ills, and they will he acknowle
PATENT
Worth a Guinea a Box.
For females of all ages these Pills are invaluable,
f s . a , v doses of them carry oft all humors, and
Dung' about all that is required. No female should
oe without them. There is no medicine to be found
equal to BEECHAM’S PILLS for removing any
obstruction or irregularity of the system. If taken ac-
cording to the directions given with each box they will
rV est ° re ema ' es °f all ages to sound and robust
nealth This has been proved by thousands who have
"fied them, and found the benefits which are ensured by
their use
F° r a weak stomach, impaired digestion and all disorders
of the liver, they act like “ MAGIC,” and a few doses will
be found to work wonders upon the most important
organs in the human machine. They strengthen the
whoxe muscular system, restore the long-lost complexion,
bring back the keen edge of appetite, and arouse into ac-
tion with the ROSEBUD of health the whole physical
energy of the human frame. These are “FACTS” testified
continually by members of all classes of society ; and
one of the best guarantees to the nervous and debilitated
is, Beecham’s Pills have the largest sale of any patent
medicine in the world.
Beeeham’s Magic Cough Pills.
As a remedy for Coughs in general. Asthma, Bronchial
Affections, Lloarseness, Shortness of Breath, Tightness
and Oppression of the Chest, Wheezing, &c., these Pills
■Stand unrivalled. They are the best ever offered to the
public and ill speedily remove that' sense of oppression
and difficulty of breathing which nightly deprive the
patient of rest. Let any person give Beecitam’s Cough
Pills a trial and the mdst violent Cough will in a
short time be removed.
Prepared only and sold wholesale and retail by the pro-
prietor, Thomas Beecham, Chemist, St. Helens, Lancashire,
England, in boxes at Is. Ud. and 2s. 9d. each.—Sold by
all Druggists and Patent Medicine Dealers everywhere.
N.B.—Full directions arc given with each box,
CONSULT PROFESSOR SELBY,
370 Cleveland Street, Surry Hills, Sydney,
Personally or by letter on Chronic Complaints
of the Nervous System, Diseases of the Urinary
Organs and all Imparities of the Blood. A Positive
Cure in all eases amendable to treatment. Suf-
ferers should read the Professor’s valuable treatise,
sent post free to all who send their address. It
contains Advice ox Mai; in age, worth its weight
in gold.
EPPS’S
GRATEFUL—COMFORTING
cocoa:
Dr. westcott’s amen orrhce a
PILLS for Ladies, when taken for a few
days before, quickly correct all irregularities
from whatever cause arising ; 2s. lid. and 4s. Gd.,
by post 3s. and ss. W. H. SOUL and CO., 190
Pitt-street, Sydney, Agents,
Musical.
INGHAM’S
PATENT SCALE INSTRUCTOR
—FOE THE—
PIAITOPORTE.
PUPILS can obtain the above at once, and the best
way to illustrate its usefulness to them is to sup-
pose a man to live to be a hundred years old and never
to have seen a Piano, he would, with five minutes’
instruction, be able to play the most difficult Major and
Minor Scales on the instrument.
Miscellaneous.
WA. LEWIS, old-established Private Detective,
■ for the discovery of Missing Friends, tracing
Absconders, watching Suspected Persons, and prosecuting
all kinds of Private and Confidential Enquiries ; obtaining
Evidence in Divorce, Libel, Fraud, Bigamy, Breach of
Promise ; extracts from or Copies of Wills, or Certificates
of Births. Marriages or Deaths obtained in any part of the
world. Bankrupt Schedules Filed, £l, by a legal gentle-
man duly admitted and practising in all the courts of
N.S.W., who may be consulted at my office on all legal
work. Consultation Free. Rents and Debts Collected,
Distress Warrants issued, steady and trustworthy Bailiffs
employed, and all moneys received are promptlyacoounted
for. W. A. LEWIS cautions the public against so-called
old-established private detective agencies, as he is con-
nected with no agents in Sydney. An intelligent, well-
trained staff of Male and Female Assistants retained,
capable, when necessary, of assuming any character in
life—from a newspaper boy to a clergyman, or from a
servant girl to a lady. Terms Moderate. Consultation
Free. Address—
Piicenix Chambers, 158 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
[Telephone 723.
WILLIAM CARGILL,
Photographic Stock Importer,
26 STREET,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
SPECIAL NOTICE,— The Sydney Bulletin.
Tasmanian Edition Publishers, FITZ-
GERALD BROS. Subscription (payablestrictly
in advance), Six Shillings and Sixpence per quar-
ter, or One Pound per annum.
The Bulletin will be on Sale every Friday at
the Office, George Street, Launceston, or from the
Runners in the street.
Business Announcements
HE BANK OF NEW ZEALAND.
Paid-up Capital £1,125,000
The Bank has Agents in all the principal cities
throughout the United States of America and
Canada, and can offer special facilities for dealing
in Bullion, Bills of Exchange, Commercial and
Travellers’ Letters of Credit.
Drafts issued and Bills collected on most favour-
able terms, at rates which can he ascertained on
application.
ATOOMBA ..FAMILY HOTEL.
First-class Accommodation for Tourists and Families
Wires and Letters to Be addressed “ Proprietor.”
Arrangements can be made to provide transit for persons
wishing to view the celebrated Jenolau Caves and
other places of interest.
C 4 PITT STREET, and 558 GEORGE STREET.
N. E. GIBLIN, Manager’.
JOSEPH NIMMO.
XEVERY
DESCRIPTION
HAIR WORK BONE
<b
V
Sfi
Si
o'
<p
ro
/
5G
If
<2
<S
S*
<52
* -: x
' <2) ,
22 *2 4\
ROYAL ARCADE
MELBOURNE
M
BO O MS
FOR LAO!
J. SITTERLIM,
FROM PARIS,
Ladies' Hairdresser. Wigmaker, St Perfumer,
25 SYDNEY ARCADE, SYDNEY.
HISTORICAL AND FANCY HAIRDRESSING A
SPECIALTY.
Manufacturer of All Kinds of Theatrical
and Street Wigs.
Aiiimoiiliitecl Quinine,
The most efficient Hair Lotion, to prevent prema
ture baldness.
Sitterlin’s Vegetable Hair-dye,
The only Hair-dye in the colonies to restore Light
Hair to its natural colour. All shades.
Sia-ccess Guaranteed.
HI I, MO I it
MANUFACTURING
GEORGES!
SYDN
I IMPORTERS Of AiLTt
| NEWEST SHAPES
And at ALBERT STREET, BRISBANE.
j
j
THE BEST
IN THE WORLD
I
11^
m
&
=s^7
AUCH
INC
f/.
PC
*
±3n
SAOm
MANUFACTURED 6V *
J/jMES CMNHOhf SVarLoirrS*
•Sold I 'rtf alt &toCC''u) <? S/srrArt/jpro **
Business Announcements.
B|IHE THREE GREAT LIGHTS!
The Needles Patent Gas-making Machine;
The Harvey Patent Safety Kerosene Lamp;
And the New Era Portable Gas Lamp.
The Harvey Lamp has been adopted by the
Railway Commissioners for lighting the Sydney
trams. We wore awarded the. Highest Order of
Merit and Special Mention by experts at the
late Melbourne Exhibition for our lighting
mediums. Over 0000 Harvey Lamps are in use
in this colony, and for all lighting purposes are
giving universal satisfaction. These Lamps can
be seen on one of the North Shore ferry-boats,
and are suitable for all classes of vessels. The
Inventor offers £2OO to anyone producing as good
a Kerosene-Burner.
Patentees for Australasia;
H. T. Smith & Go., 191 Kent St. South, Sydney;
14 Arcade, Adelaide, S.A.: Argent Street, Broken Hu.t. ;
Pnvksldedrpn 'Works, Meldournk.
The Cheapest and Best Horsefeed
IN NEW SOUTH WALES. '
CHAMPION OATEN CHAFE!
PRIME OATEN CHAFE!
LUCERNE CHAFF!
MIXED CHAFE!
Our own Cutting. Fresh every day.
23?“° Buy from us and save money. ‘l£Ji
City Produce Company,
STEAM CHAFF-CUTTERS.
HAY STREET, HAYMARKET.
3El.esa.cd ! 3FS.esi.c2L ! Read !
“THE BULLETIN’S”
History of Botany Bay,
By Arthur Gayll.
Profusely Illustrated by The Bulletin’s well-
known Artists,
L, HOPKINS and PHIL MAY.
Price - One Sla.il3d.ixs
Per post, Is. 3d.
Hotels.
PEAHLEET’S. HOTEL,
SYDNEY, NS.W,
Opposite the Park, Vvynyard Square,
(Under Mew Management.)
rpHIS for 25 years well-known First-class Ceil hi Hotel,
x recently thoroughly renovated throughout, has every
comfort and attention of a home. The Cuisine Department
is under competent French supervision. Dining Room
open for Non-Residents. Open-air Recreation Garden.
A well-ventilated Billiard Room adjoining Recreation
Ground (three Alooek’s best Tables), under" the manage-
ment of A. Buckingham, late of Empire Hotel. Wines
and Spirits of the very best quality only, and the Finest
and Coolest Bar in Town
HOT AND COLD BATHS.
\H.in PORTER. French ]
German h
Telephone No. 150. Italian I
Spoken.
SPECIAL SUITES FOR FAMILIES.
CHAS. HECHT ... Manager.
Mr + and Mrs. Thomas Asche
Beg to inform their Friends and Patrons that,
in addition to other recent improvements at the
IROYAL HOTEL,
a first-class HYDRAULIC ELEVATOR has
been erected for the convenience of Visitors,
rendering it the most complete and comfortable
house in Sydney ; and with the personal and un-
ceasing attention of Mr. and Mrs. Asche in every
detail of management, they rely on the continued
patronage of their many old friends, whose kindly
recommendation of the ROYAL HOTEL to their
friends will be esteemed.
THE GEORGE HOTEL
(opposite Railway Station, near Baths),
St. Kilda, Victoria,
First-class Family & Commercial Hotel.
Z £3T For particulars, apply to
PROPRIETOR.
S-TAiNDAUH MOTE L~
CASTLEREAGH and BATHURST STREETS.
Thoroughly renovated throughout.
First-class accommodation for Country Visitors,
G HO\ XE ... ... Proprietor.
AG O LI) E N SHANTY
Brice One Shilling.
Australian stories and sketches, js prose and verse
—BY—
“BULLETIN " WRITERS.


SHE VILL & CO.,
* '
Corner Queen Street and. Flinders Lane,
MELBOURNE.
MERCANTILE AUCTIONEERS,
House, Land, and Estate Agents,
His
BBSS
I
:hr ..
a
m
■
.. l
mm
lit SI IB
s
JJ
-
Advances made against shipments of Merchand te
and Colonial Produce.
Daily Sales held at their Commodious
New Roams.
OUTDOOR
Furniture & Land Sales Conducted.
Branch
Offices
( 32 Chapel St., Prahran.
\ 2 Albert St„ Windsor.
Branch
Offices
j
Acknowledged
The Best
0
3ST3E3’W
FURNITURE
WAREHOUSES,
York Street, Wynyard Square, Sydney,
Now supply the General Public as well as the Trade.
>.<■
10,000
Bedsteads,
IDs. 6d. to £35.
j
j
j
j
y- -
mm
99^4
H. B. Leach,
SUCCESSOR TO
/-« B MODINI, Gunmakcr, informs his Customers
”ni<l flu- Public in general that he has the largest
as mrl incut of !•'!minus in the colony. Qualities and prices
m (Mv conin' til ion. tluns by the following celebiatccl
■■ tiiiniakers: ' .1. Pnibr.v & Sons, Oh. IJOBWBU* Jons Rioisy
■mkl Co JoSKl’ll I.ANO &.80NS, Oil. OSBOUNK & Co., IIIOMAH
p. . v ,, V: \ Uu-’-e MCsortviV'nt of various other makers
aiivavs on Inn ,i. vi.e, W. W. Ureknkr Scott, Wkblkv
lloi.us k. Sons. Uilkv and.CAsmiOßK. All goods will he
faithfully guaranteed at 602 Georgc-street, Sydney,
Price list on application.
"3? la. <3 XXX eu s 3FS. oss,
TOBACCO &■ CIGAR IMPORTER,
27 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY,
(Corner of Pitt Street.)
A large stock of Genuine Uavannali t’igars, of the
choicest Brands to select from.
Sole Importer of the Celebrated “ F!«r rtc Itonlto ’
Brand of Cigars and “Empire i igaicUcs.”
[Palls Bridge JPamily [Hotel,
Falls Bridge, Melbourne.
This magnificent Hotel, ° containing 50 Double
and Single Rooms, is splendidly famished and
perfectly ventilated.
Hot and Cold Plunge and Shower Baths.
Electric Bells. Tklei-iionk 1217. Billiards , &c,
Terms Strictly Moderate.
J. 11. DURRANT ... Manager
Late of the South Australian Club Hotel, Adelaide.
Free Prescriptions
Are to be found in the “Light ami Life,
for the Speedy Cure of [Nervous Debility ant
Kindred Diseases, &o. A copy of this book w>!l
be sent Free, sealed, for Six Penny Stamps.
Address—
S. WARD Si CO., SYDNEY PHARMACY,
76 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
COCOA.
mg*.
--
m
lluik(ln-IoM .Hill
• I ■
Knowles’ Pumps.
PARKE & LACY GO.,
MINING & HYDRAULIC ENGINEERS
AND
GENERAL MACHINERY MERCHANTS,
&C., &C., &c.
187 & 189 Clarence Street,
SYIDINrETST, 3XT.S.W.
And SAN FRANCISCO, CALIFORNIA.
\
i
K
itork Breakers.
/
Westing house Engines.
TAM
Hay St., Haymarket, Sydney.
ENGINES,
2 totKHi.i*.
BOILERS,
1 to 35 H.r.
STEAM PUMPS
For all purposes.
OTTOI PUMPS.
2" to 40" discharge.
HAND POMPS.
Saw Benches.
Lathes.
Mil MACHINES,
&0., &0.
1
B mm
TAHCVES
P.iRMINtHAM
:
■
VIRDIM SNBII
Hauling Engines.
Battery Engin
-
Saw-mill Engi|
FLOUR-MILL EV
ENGIN
roii
Electric Lig
Vertical Boil
1
COKM.HII KOI I
070CP
Wc
• •* ,m . ronuWma Machinery of any kind for any purpose, largo or small, to writo for particulars and prices. From the extent of our stock we are generally able to give immediate de
mvite nl those requiring orany * r m alwayg weleome to insist the magnificent display in our new and extensive Showrooms,
129,
131,
133 & 135 STMSET, HA Y M SYDNEY.
