

A ITKEM’g ALE.
LIFE BUOY BRAND.
■ THE BEST 1 33 ff THE &S "ST.
DICKENS ”’ WHISKY.
USED BY THE LATE CHARLES DICKENS,
AND SUPPLIED TO THE PRINCIPAL CUBS IN SYDNEY.
Z_ on *Sc ad&.-fc’trw'srooica., 251 G-eorge-st., Sydney. SOJ.O jaLgents f° r TCTSontli Wales.
GO
J™
mfaa
LAJ:
im
o^jOgg&
Street, S^IDa^ETST-
. -
UNBIYALLED ACCOMMODATION.
#'
rr HE COLONIAL MUTUAL LIFE ASSUBANCE SOCIETY LIMITED.
■ ' ■
R- • MARCHES THROUGHOUT THE COLONIES AND THE UNITED KINGDOM.
POLICIES issued tfe® 0* , <3.,3.255.«-3f-y-, Mioelified. "X*oixtine and 3%Xc9Z*t:'u.a>3?3r ZSividexisl bvsTKMS.
31L1WZ1T DRY AIR EEFSI®SIT©E.
Beware of the many ’ so-called Dry Air Refrigerators advertised by unscrupulous Manufacturers and Dealers, intending
to deceive the public and trade upon our reputation. This is the original and celebrated Dry Air Refrigerator, made
famous by its successful competition at the leading Exhibitions in the United States for the past Six Years, known as
the Baldwin Dry Air Refrigerator.
WHITE MOUNTAIN FREEZERS, ICE MILK CANS, MIXERS,
X.SMOIM SQUEEZERS, &c., &c.
ZMlcHAesuri. Bros. Sz IHag'g'.
512 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
J. & c.
W\^'
'■y-
llwwartf’* CUloui * i-r»»r«w »lgal»S
Pi«»gj*.-(B.r.«.ft)
Howard's SlsigU>ru■r«v>' S!igglnj
(0.1 i.)
Tlx IP 5 ' OIT I
TLOITOHINd ANM HARROWING IN ONE ACT.
Share Points only 6&., ami are Beversiblo.
Cll AFF-CcTTlSflW', HoWH GrKAKS Jitul every IvHml uf A(S ItlCtfLTt UAl< F .MX’LK.MKVI’.S
ZUsT STOCK.
f*r° Enquirers please quote this paper.
2l>oi PITT STREET, SYDNEY
(00KNH»1 Oil’ FITT ANIJ BAT 11 UKiJT StK«KTH).
a*
os
7 07
Ikmm
■
225
—THE—
LONDON & SYDNEY
TEA
COMPANY.
409— KENT STREET—4O9
(Two doors from Market Street),
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
IMPOST—
H'lG H-C LASS T. JST ZD X .A. 2sT <& CIIIITA
i .xkcd in 201 b, ami 401 b. Packages, and delivered at Is. 63., Is. 9d. and 2s. per Itj.
(Carriage Free) to any Railway Station or Port in New South Wales.
A Single Package at Wholesale Price. Correspondence invited and promptly attended to.
The Bulletin
Yol. 11—No, 532.]
[Saturday, April 20, 1890,


TOBACCO
II
I
lllj
DiXSON*SONS
Customs Returns.
A m e r i c a n Leaf.
Dixson and Sous consumed in 1888, 52,592 lbs.
more, and in 1889 (over 44 tons) 98,939 lbs. more
American Leaf than all the rest of New South
Wales put together.
DIXSGN’S TOBACCOS having the largest
sale of any in Australia are
O u £
4
a
o
so
X
(*
<v
O.
yovx
SIR ROGER
Dr. RIDGE’S
FOOD
TOR INFANTS AND INVALIDS
Has an enormous sale In England
and is now being introduced into the
Colonies.
Every Storekeeper should get a supply
as every Wise mother will certainly
use it.
HR. RIDGE'S ROYAL FOOD MILLS,
LONDON, ENGLAND.
■SB
aSSw
o'
* *ADIf »’
£hlLDß£g|
Ilf
TFUN**^ 40 ,
/X<!77n**lC*
BOSTON
BROWN’S
SATIN
POLISH
—FOR—
LADIES' AND CHILDREN’S
BOOTS AND SHOES.
A warded highest honors at
Phila., 1876 , Melbourne, 1880
Berlin, 1§77 Frankfort, 1881
Paris, 1878 * Anisterd’m 1883
New Orleans, 1884-85, and wherever
exhibited.
Paris medal on every bottle.
Beware of Imitations.
This Blacking is in liquid form and is applied to shoes
or other articles of leather by means of a sponge, attached
to the cork by a wire, so that the blacking can be used by
anyone without soiling the fingers. No polishing brush
is required. It dries immediately after being applied, and
will not soil the most delicate clothing.
Sold largely in Australia through Commission Merchants
and Dealers.
B. P. BROWN & CO.,
Boston, U.S.A., MTgs.
THE BALLARAT COFFEE PALACE,
Lydiard Street, Ballarat.
VISITORS to the Golden City will find every
convenience at the above Establishment.
The Only Coffee Palace in Ballarat.
MODERATE CHARGES.
REID & SONS
Proprietors.
ATKINSON’S
ENGLISH PERFUMERY
surpasses all others for its natural
fragrance.
ESSENCE OF WHITE ROSE
FRANGIPAHNE
STEPHANOTIS
YLANG XIAm
OPOPANAX
and other well-known Perfumes are
unequalled for their delightful and
lasting odour.
Of dtl Dealert, and of the Manufacturer*—
3. & E. ATKINSON,
24, OLD BOND STREET, LONDON.
Trade Mark— “ White Rose ”on Golden ,
Sk lift*, with Address in full. /
T. LAWLESS, June.
37 MARKET STREET,
SYDNEY,
Fruit Merchant.
0#
D
v!/
iy
y*
e
&
o
L
N
O
0
FICES
T ®Vf<sv
i a JU,i tlj.
.Victoria
Chafe/ Irrigation Offices, Swanston Street.
-. firtJffl' Australia.
Cavendish Chambers, Grenfell Street.
J. E. Mathew Vincent, (Chief Commissioner)
Cornwall Buildings, 35 Queen Victoria St.
UOM DON E C-
PRINCE OF WALES' HOTEL,
St. BZilda, Victoria.
Within Five Minutes from STATION, and One Minute from ESPLANADE and BATHS.
MUS. KONG MEXO ... ... ... Proprietress.
Kruse's Fluid Magnesia.
It Cools the Blood, Promotes a Healthy Plow the Secretions
and Fortifies the System against the Bhaftjs of Disease.
The Best Aperient ; F»r Children. Numerous ftold Medals.
Insure Your Health Against All Risks
-BY TAKING—
SUPEB.IOR to all OTHERS!
(Vide Medical Testinmaials, Awalyfis, &«., accompanying each Befctle.
- x x *-
TAKE ONLY
Sold in Bottles at Is. 3d., 2s. 6d., 3s. 6d. Each,
Wholesale Agents: Messrs. ELLIOTT Eros., Ltd
CLARENDON HOTEL, MANLY,
The Brighton of New Sowfeh Wales.
AT the CLARENDON HOTEL, Banquets, Suppers, Private Dinners, Evening Parties, etc., are
served on the Shortest Notice in the Large Dining Hail. Besides having a wvkerche
it*. i. .A,*., c!J^^l>V'^Tlr»mT 3 10 , 1
H\ served on tne emorrese xmdhw mme rxirge Dining Hall. Besides having - ---- -- - - -
Dinner von can eniov from the balconies the magnificent wew of the sea and surrounding country ;
here also you can have good company, good wines—in fact, everything that cap possibly make one
•'omfortabie can be found at this really first-class hotel, Fishing and Picnic Parties provided. 2«We
One o’clock daily and Sundays. No expense is spared by Mrs. Kiuxmft to make her
\ isitors comfortable and her Hotel the best in the colony.
a
TSaitrm. KILMIKTSTER, Clarfendon Hotel,
O ppoaiTß OCEAN BEACH, MANLY.
J7] D WIX G GOER TZ,
Slock and Share Broker,
AGEFT,
BRISBANE.
Member of the Brisbane Stock Exchange.
68 Hunter Street, and 8 EMgh Street,
SYDNEY.
S'. SHBOBBEE
LIVERY, BAIT, LET-OUT A At) COMMIS-
SION STABLER.
Horses and Vehicles af every description for
Sale or Hire ; also, good reliable Ladies of Gentle-
men's Haefes.
—THE
Wolseley Sheep -Shearing 1 Machine.
PASTORALISTS are notified that, to avoid disappointment,
no time should be lost in Booking Orders for next Season.
Agents i J. H. fiEDDES & C 0.,
19 PHILLIP STREET, SYDNEY.
LEA & PERRINS]
■ SAUCE.iI
Purchasers should see that the Label on every bottle of the ottgloftl
WORCESTERSHIRE SAUCE
beats the Signature, time
Ask for Lea ft P, brew s' Bamce, arid see Kame on Wrapper, LaJtol, Battle and Stopper.
Wholesale and for Export by the Pfeprietq>:«, Wojceeite? f Mama ■& WaAMedf , Jjtmdon, fa., fa*
and by Grocers and Oilmen the WsrH-
—Everyone should Read—
TTT T m HT-ii E !M!3jKF S 3
“ HISTORY of BOTANY BAY,"
By ARTHUR GtA-YLIj.
profusely Illustrated by “ The Bulletin’s” well-known Artists, L. Hopkins and Phil May.
Price - ONE SHILLING; per Post, Is. 3d.
Ag ents —Vi ctorian
May be had from Agents, or direct from “The Bulletin” Office,
A. Benjamin, 821 Little Collins Street East, Melbourne ; Tasmanian: Fitzgerald Broth GP», street,
Launceston ; Queensland : J. H. Thompson, George Street, Brisbane.


Business Announcements.
BEALE & COMPANY’S
H\T ~W"arehouae.
BJJ!
OUR NEW SHOWROOMS AND HEAD OFFICES,
482 and 484 George Street,
SYDNEY.
A RADICAL REFORM.
“ Oh, I feel so Mondayish !” exclaims the housemother
at her breakfast table on the Monday morning. Although
the above absurd adjective is not to be found in the dic-
tionary, yet every woman well knows its meaning when
she looks forward to the teeming, steaming, boiling, toil-
ing, temper-tryirig, hateful washing day. The house is
thrown out of joint, other weekly duties are, as far as
possible, set aside, the children kept out of the way, a cold
dinner for the family, and a warm reception for anyone
who intrudes to waste time and to prolong the agony.
Happy, indeed, is the home where “washing day” is a
thing of the past. Every busy, l ard-pressed mother
knows the wretchedness and gloom which the present
washing day brings down upon the household. In the
early morning all is prepared for the all important washer-
woman, timed to arrive for an early breakfast, and then
to attack the week or fortnight’s batch of soiled linen.
The good-natured husband readily excuses a hastily-pre-
pared breakfast, for he hopes it may betoken the speedy
ending ef the dreadful day. The children are packed off
to school, and then begins in earnest the strife between
the housewife, anxious to get everything finished in good
time, and the professional laundress, equally anxious to
make the work last over two days. With the greatest
impartiality the laundress divides her attention between
the discussion of light refreshments and the very latest
gossip, the intervals of time being filled up with a gentle
application to her special functions
Very many of our valued customers to whom we have
supplied labor-saving appliances in the past, do their own
washing. In every family, in our climate, frequent
changes of underclothing are necessary. Then there are
the house linen, the cotton dresses, white coats, and
outer garments; and all this is heaped up for the poor
house-mother to cleanse, perhaps with the assistance of a
daughter, if there is one old enough. It is not that the
husband, who also works hard, is unkind. Expenses are
many, economy is imperative, days of depression and of
trouble must be provided against. So the washing is to
be done, and the wife must do it; and after the imperfect
rest of a sultry night, as she gets ready the breakfast upon
a hot Monday morning, she feels for a while that her lot
is cheerless, that the apportionment of toil is beyond her
share and beyond her strength ; that somehow a change
should be made. No wonder that fair young girls, after a
few years of married life, become worn-looking, and that
they age faster than they ought. The husband is willing
enough to cherish the good wife’s comeliness, and to make
her lot easy, but how ? She does not complain, only says
she feels always “ tired ”
Now, as purveyors of household implements, we have
long seen our opportunity to enlarge our business by
introducing a thoroughly efficient Washing and Mangling
Machine. Both these services must be combined in the
one article. This we have most perfectly and assuredly
accomplished. The demon of the washing day is not
scotched but killed
We resolved to introduce nothing until absolutely certain
by observation, experiment, and test, that the implement
would be a success. There are hosts of Washing Machines.
The vast majority are childish fads, are injurious, or are
useless. We say and we prove that the Beale Patent
Washer will save in labour of washing in proportion as our
Sewing Machines do in sewing. And in a higher degree,
for the washing by hands is so much the more laborious.
The Beale Patent Washer may be described as follows :
The vertical tub is very carefully made, with fluted sides.
It is stationary, only the water and the clothes being
agitated by an accurately shaped “dolly,” which is worked
by a fly-wheel. The clothes are simply dropped in, no
arrangement or packing being wanted. The special
reversing gear moves this dolly swiftly backwards and for-
wards, and a very small expenditure of strength suffices
to lash the water into a mass of foaming suds. In the
process the clothes are floated to and fro, up and down ;
currents and cross-currents of water are formed, which
meet, and are forced through and through the fabric,
carrying away every particle of dirt and stain. The linen,
being merely suspended in the water, is not rubbed and
scrubbed as in hand-washing. Neither has anything to
submit to the hand-wringing process, which insensibly
rips, tears, and wears the clothes. Thus the most delicate
fabrics cannot be torn by our system of washing. Every-
one has noticed that their clothes seem to be as much
worn by washing as by use. This is caused by' the fierce
rubbing they get upon washing boards, or by the hands.
With the Beale Patent Washing Machines tliis friction is
done away with. Therefore, the clothes will last far longer
than by hand-washing, however careful. When the wash-
ing is done, the tub should be wiped out, so that it be
always sweet and clean. There is no false bottom, and
nothing to accumulate greasy sediments.
Wliqii you buy a Machine of any kind,
have a good one.
Beale & Company
482 Ss 484 George Street,
SYDNEY,
We have erected new Show-rooms, Offices, and
Warehouses, at No. 482 and 484, George-street,
Sydney, opposite Central Markets, and near to
the Royal Arcade. These are the loftiest com-
mercial buildings in the city, and can be seen from
all parts of the city and adjacent suburbs. The
Showrooms are the largest and finest in the
Southern Hemisphere, for the due display of the
splendid Hapsburg Pianos, Haydn Organs, and
Beale Patent Sowing Machines.
All goods may be had upon easy time-payment,
or for cash less three shillings in the pound.
Photogranhs, price-lists, and samples free by
post.
No matter where you live, we will supply you
with a Piano, Organ, Harmonium, Sewing Machine
or Washing Machine, upon easy time-payment.
Branches and Travellers throughout New South
Wales and Queensland.
Business Aaaeuneementsu
WILLIAM FLEMING,
MEECHANT and IHPOETEE,
22 & 24 Clarence Street
(Corner Margaret St.),
SYDNEY.
2, St. James’ Buildings
(WILLIAM STREET),
MELBOURNE.
I
11
38
ail
i
a
fi^i
Fleming’s
RELIABLE
Buggies.
High-Class Buggies, Phaetons
Wag*g*ons and Harness.
Farm Waggons,
Express Waggons.
o
CARTS
For One and Two Passengers.
f
CMIIIIIIIIII
minium
c
CP
>
2D
miiiiiw
£
•nuiiim.
7.
3
rv
2
iiiiiin
&
3
nun
THE
m.
—->j
y
4
CLARENCE SX
SYDNEY.
AGENTS
in New South Wales.
TRI UM PH
OfThE QOOD.SPIRiT over Bad.
WHATI
LARMER’S
CELEBRATED
TONIC
CURES
Nervous Debility,
Sick Headache
Bilious Complaints
Fever and Ague.
Sleeplessness,
Liver and Blood.
THE TONIC OF THE AGE!
This being one of the beat Restoratives yet
offered to the Public in the form of a Tonic.
Warranted to Build up the Constitution,
at the same time acts as a Strengthening
Restorative in all cases.
BOTTLES at 2s. 6d. and 6s.
Post, Is Extra.
Prepared only by—
CAINS & CO., Chemists,
78 KING ST., SYDNEY.
For Sale by all Chemists.
M, W. * Co.
HUNGARIAN
NATURAL APERIENT WATEX,
For Constipation, Indlgustltti
un
AU
Stomach silver Complaints
OF ALL CHEMISTS IN AUSTRALASIA
The Natural Mineral Waters of
{STATE
nram
SPRINGS.)
GRANDE-GRILLE. For Affections of the
Liver, Biliary Organs, Sto.
CELEBTINS. —For the Kidneys, Gravel, Goat
Rheumatism, Diabetes, &o.
HOPITJLL.—For Stomach Complaints.
HADTERIYB.—An excellent Table Watml
OP ALL CHEMISTS IN AUSTRALASIA.
Business Announcements,
MASON BROTHERS,
LIMITED.
263 to 269 KENT STREET,
SYDNEY,
Have always in Stock for Sale to the
Trade and Wholesale Buyers Only,
Ironmongery, an«l
GENERAL HARDWARE
Blass, China ami
EARTHENWARE
WINES. BEERS .(■ SPIRITS,
AND GENERAL
BULK MERCHANDISE.
Agents for
JOHN WALKER and SONS
Old Highland Whisky.
LUCIEN FOUCAULD & CO.’S
Old Brandies.
J. T. GAYEN’S,
Schnapps and Geneva.
A. MELVIN and SONS’
Edinburgh Pale Ale.
rr»5ji
St
SEND TO
HENRY KIKTG,
SCENIC and PORTRAIT PHOTOGRAPHER
316 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
~ FOR—
Catalogue of the most Complete Series of Vietvs to
he obtained in Australia.
Jenolan Caves, Hawkesbury and Nepean Rivers,
Blue Mountains, Harbour and Coast Views,
Victorian and New Zealand Views.
Groups of Australian Aboriginals and South Sea
Island Natives, &c., &c.
Medical.
DR. SPEER’S
AMERICAN DISPENSARY
3 1 "X" or It Street.
P.O. Box 920.
Dr. Speer is a regular Graduated Physician, educated at
Harvard College, U.S. (for confirmation see New Zealand
Gazette, January 21st, 1886; also New South Wales
Gazette, April 17 th, 1888). The doctor has devoted 14
years to the study of CHRONIC, NERVOUS, AND
SPECIAL DISEASES. Four of these were in the leading
hospitals of the United States, which enables him to treat
all complaints with excellent results. All applying to
him will receive his honest opinion of their complaints.
No experimenting ;no Mercury used. He will guarantee
a positive cure in every case he undertakes, or forfeit
£2OO. His reason for doing so is this—when there is no
organic disease, and nothing but an inorganic trouble, or,
in other words, a conglomeration of symptoms producing
a certain result, there is no reason why it cannot be re-
moved with the proper remedies, therefore he guarantees.
He wishes it distinctly understood that he does not claim
to perform impossibilities, or to have miraculous power
he claims only to be a skilled and successful physician
thoroughly informed in his speciality—CHßONlC and
SPECIAL DISEASES of MEN and WOMEN. People
residing at a distance can, by explaining their troubles in
detail be treated at home. The course of treatment will
not in any way interfere with their business. Examina-
tion and advice free to all. Charges moderate. H. J.
Spker, M D., 31 York-street, Sydney. Post Office Box,
No. 920. Office hours, 10 a.m. 012 a.m. 2to 4 and 7
to 8 p.m. Sundays from 10 to 11 a.m. only.
W:
T 7
' i
XT'
0/ CTn
TO YOUNG 3VH33XT.
DR. FLETCHER’S
TREATISE ON NERVOUS DISEASES, THEIR CAUSE,
SYMPTOMS, TREATMENT, AND CURE.
THE directions contained in this little treatise will be
_ found of immense benefit to the sufferer; and if these
directions are observed during the early stages of Nervous
or Sexual Debility, iVo Medicines will be required, as, by
observing the directions given, the patient can Cure Him-
self.
This admirable little treatise is specially written to
show a method of counteracting the evil effects of indis-
cretions in early life—overwork, irregularity in eating or
drinking, &c. It is the result of much study and long
and successful experience in the treatment of diseases,
and contains a fund of useful information to every suf-
ferer from the following complaints, viz.:—Nervous
Debility, Dizziness, Specks before the Eyes, Pains in the
Back, Detective Memory, Loss of Will Power, Loss of
Energy, Spermatorrhoea, Bashfulness, Discontentedness,
Constipation, Liver and Kidney Derangements, Atrophy,
Impotence, Impure Blood, Foul Taste in Mouth, Palpita-
tion of Heart. Wakefulness, Despondency, Excessive Ner-
vousness, Inability to Marry, Premature Decay, and other
symptoms experienced by nervous sufferers.
All Should Send for this Little Treatise.
If the complaint is of long standing and requires
medicine, Dr. Fletcher will GUARANTEE TO CURE
ANY CASE OF NERVOUS or SEXUAL DEBILITY
with ONE COURSE OF MEDICINES LASTING FIVE
WEEKS, and will send with medicines A WRITTEN
GUARANTEE to cure same or return the monies paid.
Dr. Fletcher’s treatment is both simple and effective,
and within the reach of the poorest. It is unlike any
other, and with it he has cured over 25,000 patients, and
invites patients to investigate his statements by verifying
the testimonials published in his treatise. The treatise
will be forwarded on receipt of two stamps to cover
postage.
CONSULTATION BY LETTER, FREE.
Address in first instance—
DR. H. EWART FLETCHER,
Box 1417, G.P.O.
Sydney, N.S.W.
Private address—Clonmel House, Waverley, Sydney.
Remember, all cases undertaken, guaranteed, and a
signed agreement given, which provides that NO COST
be incurred by the patient if a cure is not effected.
VARICOCELE RADICALLY CURED WITHOUT
OPERATION.
Mention this Paper.
VST IN THE PRESS,
“.A. O-OXj-DIEIN*
By “BULLETIN” WRITERS.


A pleasantly-situated Property, thoroughly cleared, close to Liverpool Station. Torrens Title. £J deposit; LOs. per month.
W. STEPHEN, 28 CASTEEBEAGH STPEET, SITED IhTIEY-
44 Golden Shinty. A Selection from the brightest of the original literary matter which has made The Bulletin world-famous. Price, Is. : posted, 3d. extia.
Public Companies.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA.
THE COMING COLONY!
Everyone should Invest a Few Pounds in Land
Tub CAPITAL CITY OF WESTERN AUSTRALIA.
Compared with other Australian Cities the Price
is Very Low.
The Coal, Gold and Tin Mines are attracting
much enterprise and capital to the Colony.
CITY BUILDING” ALLOTMENTS,
From £1 per Foot.
BUILDING- SITES adjoining the CITY
Front £lO Each.
Small Deposit. Easy Terms. Discount for Cash.
Each Lot guaranteed good Building Land.
Land in Perth will increase greatly in value during
the next few years.
INQUIRY COSTS NOTHING.
Pamphlets, Marked Plans, and full information
posted to any address on application to
The Intercolonial Investment Co., Limits!
96 Bathurst Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
W. J. DOUGLAS, Manager.
The Australian Mercantile Loan and
Guarantee Co. (Limited).
Head Office ;
Corner of Market ami York Streets, SYDNEY.
Melbourne—2B3 Collins-street East.
Brisbane—Corner Edward and Elizabeth Streets.
Newcastle —27 Hunter-street.
Directorate:
FRANK J. SMITH, Esq., M.L.A., Managing Director.
J. P. HOWE, Esq., M.L.A. G. J. FINLAYSON, Esq.
E. H. BUCHANAN, Esq. JAMES MILLER, Esq.
The Company grant immediate advances upon
Deeds of Land, Bills of Lading, Merchandise,
Storage, and Bond Certificates, and all classes of
mercantile and other approved securities, for fixed
terms or repayable by instalments.
Interest Allowed on Deposits:
3 months ... 6 per cent.
6 ~ 7 ~
12 „ 8
A. MILLER ... General Manager.
THE
Australian Banking Company,
LIMITED.
PITT and MARKET STREETS, SYDNEY,
Incorporated under the Companies Act, 187 -
Authorised Capital, £500,000, in 100,000 Shares of £5 each.
Subscribed Capital, £75,000.
FRANCIS ABIGAIL, M.L.A.,
Chairman of the Board of Directors.
A Branch of the Bank has been opened at Goulburn
under the management of C. H. Atkinson, Esq. (lately
Branch Manager of the Bank of New South Wales) for the
transaction of General Banking Business.
The Bank has paid its Shareholders a dividend of 10 per
cent, every half-year since its formation.
The Bank transacts all usual banking business in every
advantages granted to Commercial Clients.
Overdrafts granted against deposit of Deeds.
THE HIGHEST HATES OF INTEREST GIVEN FOR
FIXED DEPOSITS.
The Share Register is now open for the allotment of
Shares—New Issue.
Bv order of the Board of Directors.
RODERICK M'NAMARA, Manager.
Forms of application for Shares may be obtained at the
Bank.
QITY
MUTUAL FIRE INSURANCE
COMPANY, Limited.
ESTABLISHED 1877.
Capital
£500.000.
Head Office:
25 CASTLEREAGH STREET,
SYDNEY.
A Cash Bonus of 10 per cent, is paid to Policyholders
on renewals every year. Insurances covering Loss by Fire,
Lightning or Gas Explosion at Lowest Kates.
The DIVIDEND of 8 PER CENT, to 31st December,
1889, is now being paid, and the BONUS or 10 PER
CENT, to Policyholders will, as usual, be paid on re-
newal of the r policies.
Money to Lend on Approved Security.
The Bonus paid is equal to that paid by any
Fire Company in Sydney.
ROBERT KERR, Manager.
Sydney Canister Works,
COLLINS STREET, SURRY HILLS,
OFF CROWN STREET.
Manufacturers of allk nda of Tins for Confectioners)
Tea Merchants, Biscuit Makers, &c., also all kinds
of Tins, round and square, for Pepper, Spice and
Baking Powder, made by improved machinery.
o
A. Trial Solicited.
Business Announcements,
ANDREW KING & CO.,
Wholesale Soft Goods Importers and Warehousemen*
FLINDERS STREET, MELBOURNE,
Opjiosile Hobson’s Bay Railway Station.
rpHIS old-established house was opened to the Public last Monday as the “MODERN
FAMILY WAREHOUSE,” when the rooms were rushed and the doors had to be
closed.
The Press and the Public have pronounced the Opening Day the Greatest Success
ever achieved in Victoria.
The Goods required no pushing, so Customers were not annoyed by salesmen.
Plain Figures and Good Value at once convinced Purchasers of the advantages to
be gained by buying from a Wholesale House ; and now ANDREW KING & CO. take
position of
Premier Drapers in Victoria.
Parcels delivered at Railway Station on opposite side of street, so that you can do
your shopping in shorter time and with more satisfaction by calling at the “MODERN
FAMILY WAREHOUSE ” as you come into town than by going elsewhere.
Note. —The present Stock is being Sold very much under Wholesale Cost, and
Householders should not neglect this rare opportunity of replenishing their stocks.
Lengths and Quantities to suit, all. No Second Prices.
Terms Strictly Cash..
* - -
Country Orders promptly attended tof%d Squatters’ Parcels made and sent by return.
Note Address :
‘ ‘ The Modern Family Warehouse,
OPPOSITE HOPSON S BAY STATION.
WL
il!
METROPOLE
Eeiil
XPliillip JSz Yoxixxg- Streets, Sydney.
-THE-
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL
FIRE
Insurance Society.
Established ... ••• 1872.
Bonuses
OF
20 per cent. Paid Annually
since 1873.
-U
Head Office
—THE
Oldest Mutual Fire Office
in Australia.
Claims promptly and liberally
settled. Fifteen days’ea-ace
allowed for Renewal of Policies.
Lowest Current Rates charged.
Hon. Georye Thornton , M.L.C.,
Chairman.
Head Office:
Corner Pitt & King Streets,
SYDNEY.
Walter Church ... Manager.
Business Announcements.
--
■ A
AYLEt
"1
AUCTIONEERS* ESTATE AGENTS
PV
em
BAY L E E & CO.,
General Auctioneers and Estate Agents,
335 Collins Street, Melbourne, and 14 CUapei
Street, South I’arra.
UMBRELLAS
RE-GCVEREO.
cTUDV ECONOMY
ar d
Have your Umbrella Frames
Re-Covered, and y >ur
Parasols Re-Lined and made
Equal to New, at
J . SUIbJLIV A \ ’ S,
' 541 George Street,.
Brickfield Hill,. Sydney,
he,t H eeu
/ iverpuol U- Ikilkurst SU .
Parasols made to match Cos-
tumes. Repairs neatly done.
GROTH
PAPER-HANGINGS,
oils t C6uours & Paints
Wall papers fro/m z°roll
PA«
Brickfield H.
PULVERM ACKER’S WORLD-
FAMED GALVANIC BELTS
FOR THE CURE OF
Nervous Exhaustion and Debility, Sciatica,
Lumbago, Rheumatism, &c„
HAVE received Testimonials from Three
Physicians to Her Majesty the Queen and
the Leading Physicians of many London Hospi-
tals, including over Forty Members of the Royal
College of Physicians of London.
For full Price-list and particulars, see new pam-
phlet “Galvanism: Nature’s Chief Restorer of
Impaired Vital Energy.” Pamphlets Free.
Sole Agents for N.S.W.,
FROST <& SHIPHAM
ELECTRICIANS,
474 & 587 George Street, Sydney.
Sole Agents for Victoria:
ALLISON BROS., 477 Collins-strket West, Melbourne.
OYAL STANDARD HOTEL.
CASTLEREAGH and BATHURST STREETS.
Thoroughly renovated throughout.
First-cla s accommodation fur Country Visitors.
THOMAS 15,1 CREEPY:
VEDIGAL HERBALIST,
83 Oxford Street, i doors atove Riley Street.
Private Disease» o Both Sc.ccts a Speciality.
Consultations Gratis. Charges very Moderate.
A Trial Solicited.
A SPEEDY CURE GUARANTEED.
G. IJOV M Td
l»i
'ropi'ietoi'
PITY & COUNTY
Investment, Land and. Building
Company, Limited.
Authorised Capital, £lOO,OOO ... Reserves and Uncalled Capital, £37,000.
Rates for Deposits ; 12 months, 7 per cent.; 6 months, 01 per cent.; at call, 5 per cent.
Bonus to 12 months’ Depositors.
Directors: J. Garrard, M.P., Hon. J. H. Young, M.P., J. P. Walker, J.P., John C. Hamilton.
J. D. Ward, Manager, 327 Pitt-street, Sydney.
ƒ
327 PITT STIR-lEET, P TT TD TT "S


The Bulletin
Vol. 11—No. 532.
SATURDAY, APRIL 26, 1890.
Price, 61.
THE MORAL OE THE FLOODS.
OLD SOL: “I SAY, AREN’T YOU RATHER OVERDOING IT!”
AQUARIUS: “YOU KEEP QUIET, OLD MAN. I AM ONLY GIVING ’EM A SUPPLY OF WATER IN ADVANCE TO LAST ’EM THROUGH THE
DROUGHT WHICH YOU WILL PRODUCE WHEN YOUR INNINGS GOMES. BUT I SEE IT IS WASTED, AS USUAL.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
“ Australia for the Australians. '
Proprietors : BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO.,
Limited.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 21 Pitt-street Sydney, New South Wales.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(payable in advance, only).
Per Annum £lO 0
Half-yearly 0 12 6
Quarterly
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to he addressed to William Macleod. Managing Director.
Literary Communications to be addressed to J. F.
Archibald.
The Editor will carefully read and acknowledge in tne
• ‘ Correspondence ’ column all contributions submitted
whether in the form of Political, Social, or other Articles,
Verse, Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in
length, or say 3000 icords, are specially acceptable),
Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper-Clippings All
communications will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin" will return all unavailable MSS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But ice
desire those sending MSS. to distinctly understand that
we are not responsible for the preservation or transmission
of such MSS.
NOTICE.
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty Shillings
sterling—which you may pay by Post Office Order, One
Pound Note, or Stamps of any Australian colony—you
can have The Bulletin lasted regularly to you every week
for a year.
This offer is not open to residents of Sydney. In that
city The Bulletin is not delivered by mail, but is entirely
in the hands of our earners, with whom ive do not wish
to interfere.
SATURDAY, APRIL 26, 1890.
The Eight-Hours’ Campaign.
There needs no soothsayer to interpret the
signs of the times. The struggle of the
future —the strife which cannot cease until
victory shall have been won by the pre-
destined cause —has commenced in downright
earnest. Among the Caucasian race of
Europe and North America it has been per-
ceived, or rather felt, that wars between
nations bring nought but intensified
wretchedness and suffering to the common
people, whereas campaigns by Labour against
Capital should result beneficially. IN o con-
flict can be expected to be without its
agonies. But whereas the devilish tortures
of battlefields have been merely the cause
and precursors of aggravated social wrongs
and of destitutions more bitter than before,
it is the conviction of the thoughtful worker
and the faith of the unthinking toiler that
the deprivations and sacrifices inseparable
from a servile revolt may and must procure
their own compensations and something
more. Labour has opened at least one eye.
There is a prevalent determination —pro-
bably soon to be a universal one—that there
shall henceforth be a nearer proportion be-
tween the amount of exertion and the
amount of reward, than has heretofore been
the case. Although “The International”
no longer maintains its sometime far-reaching
organisation, in a formal sense, there exists
an international consensus of opinion, and
unity of method, among labourers, which
probably transcend in actual efficiency all
that the most strenuous efforts of the Inter-
national ever achieved. In Great Britain,
in Germany, in France, in Austria, and in
the United States of America, Labour, with
menacing simultaneousness, makes a uniform
demand upon Capital.
* # #
The reduction of the hours of toil to eight
daily is the concession which Labour has
thus universally determined to win. No one
who has given any attention to the current
phenomena deceives himself as to the signi-
ficance of their demand. It is neither final
uor inclusive. It is but a first instalment of
what Labour has in view. The whole object
is no less a thing than that Labour shall
receive and retain the whole value of what
it creates. The eight-hours movement is
merely an advance upon an outwork of the
enemy. That gained, it will be used as a
point of vantage for further and more com-
prehensive operations, until the very citadel
of Capital is stormed, and the vanquished
become merged in the multitude of their
conquerors, and Labour , and Capital are no
longer distinguishing terms.
# * *
Whatever may be the expectation of the
unreflective mass of workers, their leaders
in thought, the master-minds who plan and
direct their campaign, have no illusions.
They know perfectly that merely to win the
right to contract the hum’s of toil would,
as a detached achievement, bring no real
alleviation to the condition of the people.
To wrest a few hours for repose or recruit-
ment of energy, from Capital, would, unless
accompanied by another concession, merely
bring about an exchange of evils. If twelve
hours’ Avork be replaced by eight hours of
work and a corresponding diminution of pay
attend the changes, it would simply enable
the workers to have more time to be hungry.
They would have bought and paid for the
additional leisure, with their oavu money.
They would, in fact, have thrown themselves
out of employment for a third of their time,
dismissed themselves for a third of the year ;
effected a lock-out for three months in the
twelve.
# * *
This is by no means what their purpose is.
They mean to work eight hours for what is
at present the Avage for ten hours or for
twelve or more hours—as the custom prevail-
ing now at the scene of their industry may
be. Twelve hours pay for eight hours Avork !
Thus curtly defined, the vast scope of the
industrial revolution which has been in-
augurated becomes comprehensible. Success
Avill involve such an upsetting of existing
relations and arrangements, that not merely
local barter and domestic trade, but inter-
national commerce Avill bo turned topsy-
turvy, and will have to be readjusted on
e itirely new bases. If, for example, one
community, say, in Vienna, has been able
by reason of labouring twelve hours daily
to produce a commodity so cheaply that
possession has been taken of the Avorld’s
markets, the reduction of the hours of labour
to eight may entirely overturn that condition
of affairs. A community which, by Avorking
ten hours daily and having some small
natural advantages, such as slightly cheaper
raAv material, has been able to produce that
same commodity for its oavu market and to
sell on even terms Avith the Austrian, will
now—reducing its time by only tAVO Ixours
instead of by four, be in a position to oust
the Austrian article from all markets. There
could readily be discovered a thousand in-
stances in which the conditions are practically
as above. The institution of a uniform time
of eight hours for labour, when accompanied
by a uniform Avage-rate, and even in many
instances without that accompaniment, must
disturb and reverse the course of inter-
national commerce. A secondary conse-
quence must be a corresponding readjustment
of the course of monetary exchanges. The
success of the Eight-hours movement would
make every fibre of the Avorld’s financial
nerve-structure tingle. This small instal-
ment of Labour-revolution, if accomplished
in the United States, Avould send a vibration
through the Bourses in Paris and Vienna, and
make the pens of ten thousand bank-clerks
quiver in every region of the civilised Avorld.
* # *
Anyone avlio imagines that “ The Four
Eights ” —eight hours’ labour, eight hours’
play, eight hours’ sleep, eight shillings a day
—express the finality of the demands of
labour is subject to an hallucination. The
Socialist writers, who are the real leaders of
the Labour revolt, have figured the thing
out very differently. Mr. H. M. Hyndman
writes: —
In tAvo or three hours—Mr. W. Hoyle says, on the ave-
rage one-and-one-quarter hour’s daily work—the labourer
will produce quite enough social value to keep him, or to
refund the wages the capitalist pays him at the end of
the Aveek or day out of the results of his toil. The labourer,
however, does’ not work these tAvo or three hours a day
only : he Avorks ten, twelve, fourteen, even sixteen hours
a day, for he has sold his labour to the capitalist, Avho can
exploit it to any extent. Those extra hours of toil,
therefore, over aiid above the time needed to create the
amount of value represented by the wages paid, simply
constitute so much unpaid labour which the capitalist
takes in the shape of the surplus value created by the
labourer—the articles of utility, namely, on Avhich he has
been employed. That surplus value the actual capitalist
divides up with landlords, bankers, profit-mongers, and
other gentlemen at large.
Henry George, influenced by his fixed idea,
insists that a combination of labour to secure
an increase of Avages —and the Eight-Hours
movement is essentially that —cannot succeed
because it is a combat betAveen labour and
land-monopoly. Mr. George Avill not see
that rent-extortionists are only one of the
classes who fasten leech-like upon Labour.
Undoubtedly land-OAvners are the bggest
leeches, and have this character that they
fasten not only upon Labour directly but
upon all other exploiting leeches, batten
upon the repletion filched by these, and
make them of necessity ever hungry for
more blood. But Avhere George asserts that
in the struggle between Labour and Rent,
Labour must fail, he plainly prophesies at a
peradventure. His stated reason is that
Avhile Labour can starve Capital to a sur-
render, Land does not starve. The argu-
ment is concretely worded by himself thus :
“Land Avill not starve like labourers or go to
Avaste like Capital—its OAvners can Avait.
They may be inconvenienced, it is true, but
what is inconvenience to them is destruction
to Capital and starvation to Labour.” Mr.
George apparently imagines that his betes-
noirs the Land-owners are monsters in other
than a politico-economic sense : that they
are created with patent-fasting stomachs and
self-renewing tissues. Land-owners de-
prived of rents —as they Avould be were
Labour to suspend its exertions and Capital
to waste, would starve just as labourer’s
would. The conflict might be unequal, but
landowners Avould not of necessity come oft'
victorious as Mr. George opines. It is not
true that “ Avages could not be increased
except to the decrease of rent.” There are
ample margins between wages and rent.
Huge fortunes are continually being accu-
mulated by men who do not own an acre of
land, by manufacturers, bankers, specu-
lators, dealers, and middlemen of a hundred
kinds. Wages could be increased by the
absorption of the sources of gain whence
such fortunes are derived, and yet rent re-
main the same. It is not true that “in a
general deadlock landowners could live.”
What could they live on ? Nettles ?
* * *
The struggle is not, therefore, pre-
ordained to failure. Success is within the
range of possible attainment. It is worth
considering, consequently, what success
would signify. Advocates of the Eight-
hours system affirm that were the aim
achieved one result would be the better-
ment of labourers presently employed.
Another would, they claim, be that more
hands would find employment. That is to
say, presuming that the same quantity of
goods had still to be made when workmen
laboured eight hours as when they laboured,
say twelve hours, half as many work-
men again as found employment under
the twelve-hour regime would bo re-
quired under the Eight-hours system. And
on the hypothesis assumed, viz., that the
change be universal, this would be indis-
putable. It is just here that a real difficulty
occurs. The change cannot be universal.
It is true that the movement has just now
an unprecedentedly wide scope. The Ameri-
can Federation of Labour conducts a definite
campaign, originally fixed to open on Ist
May of this year, but which appears to have
commenced some weeks earlier. Simultane-
ously Vienna, Paris, Berlin and London
are to have “demonstrations.” But these
places, although mighty, do not comprise the
whole industrial world. In a struggle of this
nature every community represents a force
potential. China has to be reckoned, and
even Japan comes into the field of effective
action.
# * #
The objectors to the Eight-hours move-
ment found their strictures upon the fact
last stated. Mr. Bradiauoh, for example,
with his constituents, the boot-makers of
Nottingham, in his mind’s eye, declared that
the enactment of an Eight-hours law, and in
fact the adoption of the Eight-hours system,
would destroy the commercial supremacy of
Groat Britain. Mr. Braulaugh’s reasoning
is obvious enough and sound enough when
his premises are granted. He assumes that
Great Britain alone adopts the Eight-hour
system. Then boots for export from
Nottingham will only be produced at an
augmentation of cost. France and-Germany,
he supposes, will not adopt the Eight-hour
system. Then the Nottingham boot-export
trade will be ruined. The competition of
ten and twelve hour labour in France and
Germany will wipe out the Nottingham
factories. And so with a multitude of other
industries. This is a fine illustration of the
fact, constantly pointed out by Protectionists
and as constantly denied by Freetraders,
that in the markets of the world, supremacy
can only be gained by the country which
grinds her Labour lowest, other things being
equal. Yet not merely would Great Britain
lose her commercial supremacy in the world’s
markets were an Eight-hours law to be
adopted by her alone among the nations,
but her domestic market would be lost to
her by the mere elevation of her Labour.
Mr. H. 11. Champion, the Socialist, who
contributed a thoughtful paper, in favour of
an Eight-hours law, to the Nineteenth Cen-
tury Review, of September last, recognises
this difficulty. Mr. Champion reasons the
matter out thus :
Let us first take the case of a trade in which profits are
very low—so low that, the hours now being twelve a day,
an eight-hour law (necessitating the employment of 50
per cent, more hands, and consequently, if wages are not
to he reduced, an increase of 50 per cent, in the weekly
wages paid) would completely destroy any inducement to
the employer to continue business. This can only happen
in this country in a trade which is closely pressed by
foreign competitors able to supply the article produced,
since, unless these foreign competitors are in the field, the
employers would be able, by obtaining higher prices, to
recoup themselves for the higher wages they would have
to pay. But any trade which is in this condition is so for
one of three reasons : First, because its foreign competi-
tors have an advantage in their geographical position or
natural resources; second, because they have better
methods of production ; or third, because they can buy
their labour at a cheaper rate.
In the first case Protection would be an economic disad-
vantage to this country, since it would pay us better to
obtain the product of such an industry by exchange with
those countries whose conditions are better suited to it.
In the second case, Protection would mean that incapable
or unenterprising employers should be protected from the
consequences of their own shortcomings. In the third case,
Protection would be justifiable, since it would protect our
workmen from being undersold by races who are only
superior to them in having a lower standard of comfort—
in fact, are less civilised. I believe Protection in the third
case—that is to say, of an industry in which we have
natural advantages equal to those of foreign competitors,
and are not behind them in our methods of production,
but are hardly pressed solely on account of the compara-
tive dearness of British labour—would have the un-
qualified approval of everyone who understands and ap-
proves the main principle of trades-unionism.
We commend Mr. Champion’s argument to
the attention of the working men of Aus-
tralia. It represents the untrammelled
operations of the mind of a member of their
own class, a tried friend of heir order, a
man of proved intelligence, and one entirely
dispassionate with regard to the rival claims
of Protection and Freetrade, which he re-
gards as quite subordinate to his greater
projects for the emancipation of labour. The
case he states fits the colonial conditions with
exactitude. His conclusions are identical
with those which, starting from different
premises, we have repeatedly impressed
upon our readers. Labour remunerated on
the higher scale cannot possibly retain com-
mand of its own market, so long as there
exists at any point of commercial contact
labour more subject to the thrall of Capital,
unless the more emancipated labour is
guarded by a policy of Protection to Local
Industry.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The British Army and People.
We showed, a few weeks ago, some of the reasons
why the monarchical Ministers of Great Britain
have constantly thrown cold water upon the
volunteers. Our statements were based upon
general knowledge and deduction. We would
have found it laborious, if not impossible, to dis-
inter the miscellaneous jumble of newspaper
articles, papers in reviews, magazine accounts,
and so forth which had helped, with half-remem-
bered conversations, to form our impressions. We
never hoped to have an endorsement furnished
within a month. Yet we find that desideratum,
an article from Colburn’s United Service
Magazine, republished by the S.M. Herald last
week. The writer argues that conscription for
the army would never do in Great Britain,
and prominent among, his reasons are the convic-
tion that a people trained to arms could not be
controlled by violence so readily as now is the case.
A “ grave objection to the adoption of conscrip-
tion/’states the writer, “appears when we con-
template the crisis through which our country may
soon pass. . . .” “An English mob is for-
tunately far less military ” than a French one,
“ and by no means so accomplished ” in the art of
raising barricades. “Not one man in a hundred
has been trained to the use of arms. The crowd,
however numerous, is immediately overawed by
the mere presence of troops.” That is to say, it
is matter for congratulation that Englishman are
easily cowed when confronted by trained troops.
A fine quality truly to foster among a people who
may, in consequence of the smallness of its army,
be required themselves to confront invading
armies. But the moral is illustrated ; “ Let us
now suppose,” continues the writer, “that con-
scription had existed in England for a con-
siderable period. Under those circumstances,
a huge gathering similar to that, for in-
stance, of the recent great strikes, would
have contained serious elements of disorder and
danger had the men not been peaceably disposed.
Had England been a eonscriptional country, nine-
tenths of the men on strike would have previously
undergone military training. Had the men shown
an aggressive spirit, the ringleaders would have
suddenly become transformed into captains and
generals.” “Furthermore, a eonscriptional army
might possibly have fraternised with the mob, as
did the French National Guard in 1789, the
National Guard being virtually the people £” This
is amazingly frank, but the frankness is either the
cynical outspokenness of a covert Republican or the
unconscious candor of stupidity. If the army were
virtually a portion of the people discharging
military duties for the time being, the army—the
armed people-might fraternize, i.c., act as
brothers, with the People. The military writer is
just as candid respecting what a standing army is.
expected to be and to do. The British army
consists at present, he affirms, of “a section
of the population professionally separated from
the bulk, totally unsympathetic with the
discontented and agitating part of the nation,”
and consequently “ not liable to be affected by the
ideas actuating the mass.” This is the naked
truth in all its divine purity. The British Army
is a section of the population disciplined to arms,
trained to be “ unsympathetic with their unarmed
brethren, and so tutored that they shall not be
liable to be affected by the ideas actuating the
mass !” Our readers will now have evidence that,
we did not mislead them when stating the reasons
which actuate the monarch and oligarchs of Great
Britain in withholding from the volunteers the
training, the equipment, and the weapons which
would place them on the same level of efficiency as
the regulars. The army is maintained to repress,
by massacre if necessary, any endeavour by the
people of Great Britain to carry into effect “the-
ideas actuating the mass ” if such ideas should
threaten the privileges of the ruling and exploiting
class. And the hoodwinked people are expected
to keep their blinkers on and sing that “Britons
never shall be slaves. ” But candid fools like the
editor of Colburn’s United Service Magazine
let rays of light penetrate. The English people
will not be fooled for ever.
*
Atrocities of Suppression.
The extent to which the influence of Established
Institutions governs the opportunities for forming
opinions is really appalling. The sensibilities of
the Czar of Russia and his regime are deferred to
so widely that even here in Australia the conse-
quences of this reverential homage make them-
selves felt. If his police discover—or invent—a
trumpery plot by a town idiot, three larky school-
boys or a couple of hysterical studentesses to blow
up the Czar with a pot of marmalade, to poison
him by shooting peas down his throat or to
strangle him with garters, these desperate pur-
poses of the nefarious Nihilists are reported with
solemn mysteriousness as to detail in every news-
paper in the globe. But when, in order to maintain
the scared, drunken, epileptic tyrant on his heredi-
tary throne, the most atrocious outrages are perpe-
trated upon noble-spirited men and upon women of
culture and refinement, only the scantiest particu-
lars are embodied in the selection of news which
is despatched even from the capital of Great
Britain to her free colonial communities. Thus it
was that there was no word of any outrages hay-
ing been perpetrated on political prisoners in
Siberia, until “outrages” against the Czars
government and against law and order occurred
in the Russian Universities. Rather precipitately
the civilised world was invited to condemn the
young Russian students for wanton riotousness
and indocility. Then it leaked out that the,
“ motive ” unrest of these students was horror and
indignation respecting the treatment of political
prisoners in Siberia. But in what that treatment
consisted, .to evoke so much feeling among the
Russian students was never stated in a single cawed
dispatch. The public has to hunt it up. Ihe
solitary information vouchsafed “by cable was
that there had been a massacre of the prisoners.
\Ve gave our readers some particulars about that
atrocious slaughter a few weeks ago. We now
invite them to conceive to what extent the cables
would have been employed if, for instance, a body
of Irish Invincibles, under the direct and supremo
control of Mr. Parnell, had kidnapped from
their homes a number of ladies and gentlemen
professing with unguarded warmth Unionist
principles, bad seoluded them beyond the reach ot
aid, and so secretly that particulars of their treat-
ment could not possibly leak out unless there were
some secret sympathiser among their custodians,
or unless the cruelties inflicted upon them re-
volted tha feelings even of ruffians picked
on account of their callousness to perform
the part of turnkeys. Now, suppose that
the kidnappers and gaolers, finding they nau
to deal with persons of exceptionally hign
courage and stout adherence to principle, threat-
ened to tame their unrulmess by application o
the lash. Suppose that, having to hwffiieawfty
a married lady from one den of detention


another, the duty was entrusted to a ruffian who
had qualified by experience as a custodian of
thieves and harlots at Newgate. And suppose
that he entered that lady's cell, dragged her
out of her bed, hustled her almost naked to
another place, and there, amidst a group of jeer-
ing comrades, plying her with indecent comments
on her person, she were stripped naked and re-
clothed. Suppose that, escaping this infamy, the
rest of the victims resolved that they had sooner
die a thousand deaths than be subjected to further
degradation. Suppose that another lady, fancy-
ing that these horrors could be attributable only
to the lewd excesses of depraved instruments and
that if Mr. Parnell himself or any of his higher
associates got an inkling of what was going on,
slapped the face of Mr. Justice M ‘Garth y when
as supervisor of kidnapped people he paid a visit
of inspection. And suppose that as final result,
that lady was flogged to death, and that her com-
panions, once dignified matrons, clever magazine-
writers, bright girls who had filled lawn-tennis
grounds with grace and laughter, had, despairing,
resolutely begun and continued for 31 days to
starve themselves to death, and were then
“saved” for further horrors by having nourish-
ment forced into their resisting bodies. Would
the cable correspondents of the Australian dailies
have had no word to wire about such in-
famies ? Yet these are the facts. Only
it is not Mr. Parnell who is in question;
it is his most sacred Majesty the Emperor
of Russia. It is not Mr. Justin M‘Cabthy, it is
his Excellency Count Masukoff, Director of
Prisons. And people pretend to be horror-stricken
when a son or brother—aye, or countryman of
someone among these martyred ladies takes a
poison-pill in his mouth and his life in his hand
and tries to execute the crowned assassin and
ravisher of thousands of noble men and refined
women.
*
“ The First Great Democrat.”
Apropos of the twenty-fifth anniversary of the
assassination of Abraham Lincoln, the Sydney
Echo dropped a crocodilian tear to his memory,
but, as was only to be expected from an “ organ ”
of a fossilised conservatism, in pointing the moral
of his career, and in adorning its own tale, the
Echo omitted the most striking and obvious les-
son of Lincoln’s life, namely, that he was the pro-
duct of a Democracy. Tested by every old-world
standard and by the maxims of old-world state-
craft, than the method pursued by Americans in
electing a man who was to preside over their
destinies at the most critical moment of their his-
tory, when the nation tottered on the verge of an
abyss that threatened to engulph not the Union
alone but the cause of Democracy as well, nothing
could seem more ludicrously puerile. That
hundreds of men, for the most part strangers
to each other, gathered from different States,
each State owning some interest opposed to
the welfare of another, should meet in “ Con-
vention ” —an assemblage unknown to the Consti-
tution and then and there amid intrigue,
and noise, and buffoonery choose an ancient
back - woodsman as the man whom they
should commend to the nation as its
saviour ; and that the nation should also ac-
cept the rude unknown, and pronounce him to
be the one man to whom it might confidently
commit itself why, beside this proceeding the
old-world notion that the science of king-craft is
transmitted to their children by royal male
and royal female, appears on the surface an ema-
nation of Gon-like wisdom. Better surely, as
a means of finding a Man for the Hour, than this
Unction by Ballot, this Coronation by Popular
Vote, would be the monarchical mummery of a
Westminster,oraßheims, oraMoscow! But—crude
and farcical as the democratic method seemed, the
underlying law was right. Once more vox populi
proved vox Dei. The instincts of a great people,
at the crisis of their fate as a people, were to bo
trusted, and Lincoln assumed the presidency only
to prove in the trifles of official appointments no
less than in the surpassing majesty of Emancipa-
tion, the unerring accuracy and the sub-
stantial wisdom and justice with which a
free nation can work out its destiny
through its appointed agents. Lincoln has
been termed by Lowell and Emerson “the
First Great American.” A still juster title, per-
haps, would be the “First Great Democrat,” for
no man of whom history holds record was more
essentially and distinctively a product of purely
democratic forces. In the famous phrase to which
he gave utterance on the field of Gettysburg—
“ Government of the people, by the people, for
the people ”•—he described something more than a
form of Government—he described the causes of
which he was the effect, and the system of which
he was a symbol. When the crisis comes in the
history of Australia —and each successive day it
marches nearer and the rumble of i.ts approach is
audible to anyone who will place his ear to the
ground—if the people will trust themselves they
need not fear the issue. They, too, will generate
their Lincoln. P.S.—Blessed thought ! Perhaps
the Australian Lincoln is Parkes’ latest baby.
Tire Unearned Increment of the Type-
writer.
The click of the typewriter (the machine) resounds
through the land, and the typewriter (the ma-
chinist) multiplieth, for the voice of the machine-
agent is even as the voice of the charmer. The
problem is—When is the boom in the consumption
of more or less effective machines and in the pro-
duction of more or less capable machines going to
end ? Is it the enrichment of the machinist or is
it the enrichment of the machinist’s employers
which is going to be the corollary of the populari-
sation of this latest labour-saving appliance ? From
present appearances we should say that, as usual,
the employer will swallow up all the profit that ac-
crues from the extra skill commanded by his type-
writing employe. A saving of time, and, con-
sequently, of money, must follow upon the intro-
duction of the typewriter into the routine of a
business concern, or otherwise the machine would
be carted out to the nearest auction-room and the
machine-manipulator presented with the “sack”
and his week’s wages. But how is this saving
distributed ? Does tin employe receive an in-
creased remuneration for the additional qualifica-
tion he possesses in being able to finger the keys
and indite a letter that can be read of all
men ? Not in one ,out of a score of
cases. In the remainder the employer simply
pockets the unearned increment of the type-
writer’s skill, often indeed, also of the typewriter’s
expenditure on his instrument, for the competi-
tion among typewriters in Australia is already
such that business men in engaging one can insist,
if he pleases, as a condition of engagement, that
the person employed shall provide his or her own
machine. In other words, the typewriting opera-
tor, who is not infrequently a shorthand-writer as
well, is, in the majority of cases, receiving the
average rate of remuneration customarily paid for
Ihe same class of clerical work before the use of
Ihe instrument became at all general, and this
notwithstanding the trouble and special training
and the expense of purchasing a machine. The
operator does not benefit by his study and
experience, and what he does do, is to
play the Scripturally-sanctioned game of adding
unto him which hath, and taking from him which
hath not. Asa factor of profit for himself, the
typewriter is a dead failure. Asa factor of profit,
primarily for the inventors and dealers in the
machines, secondarily, for the employes, he is
already a great and promises to be a prodigious
success. And equally is he a success as a lever for
the further reduction of the already contemptible
wage “enjoyed” by the followers of so-called
clerical occupations. Type-writing machine
agents are right enough when they say that a
clerk who learns shorthand and the type-
writer will find it profitable to do so. Where
they are wrong is in letting it be sup-
posed that a knowledge of one and the other
will induce increased remuneration. The profit
comes in not from an increased wage, but in the
avoidance of a reduced one. And the evil is
growing every week. A score or so of “pupils”
are being transformed into alleged “ operators ” at
the several “schools” of the art in Sydney and
Melbourne, and if they are to find exercise for
their special competencies, they must displace
ordinary clerks, for they are too numerous to be
at once absorbed by the necessities of employers.
If the type-writers are wise, they will combine
before their number becomes too large to be easily
controllable, and before competition has become
absolutely suicidal. Trades-unionism has done a
deal for other occupations in securing a reasonable
wage; and the man who drives the goose-quill
over the invoice-form, and his brother who alter-
nately uses his J-nib and his pen-knife on the
ledger folio, have been fools for not applying
union methods and principles to their vocation
before now. Type-writers can get their hands
round the throat of Unrestricted Competition
now : it isn’t so big that they cannot compass it.
A year or two hence it may be too late.
■
“The Bulletin” and “Australian
Nativedom.”
A certain New South Wales newspaper of limited
circulation and less brains, which we have just
seen and heard of for the first time, affects to find
evidence of a “narrow-minded provincialism”
in The Bulletin’s oft-expressed contempt for
A.N.A. vapourings, and for Paekes’ dream of
federating the Australian colonies under dear old
Hingland’s domination. The Bulletin’s opposi-
tion to a Federation of the kind proposed by the
vainglorious Premier in his dotage—a Federation
conceived in a spirit of devout loyalty to an insti-
tution which this journal has been attacking, not
unsuccessfully, for ten long years—surely calls for
no further justification here. Even the short-
sighted individuals who, for a time, regarded The
Bulletin as unpatriotic in its attitude towards
the miserable Soudan expedition, will now scarcely
repeat their error by ascribing our attacks upon
“ Parkes’ Folly ” to other than zeal for the cause
of Nationalism. Had the venerable nursery-poet
called upon the colonies to federate round the
standard of “ Australia for the Australians,”
then would The Bulletin have shouted
with him, instead of mocking at his long,
white hairs. Even though self-glorification
were the obvious mainspring of his scheme
we certainly had decided that the means justi-
fied the end. But let Parkes pass. At the
Australian Natives’ Association —a shrub of Vic-
torian growth which has proved unequal to success-
ful transplantation in other colonies The
Bulletin sneers, rather than rails. We have been
told that its original founders had the worthy
ambition to create “a counter blast to the Im-
perialism ” which they discovered to be rampant
among Anglo-(very Anglo) Australian members of
the Colonial Institute in London. How far
the A. N. A., under Purves and Cos., has de-
generated in its political purpose can be judged
from the nauseous records of branch meetings,
which not uncommonly terminate two or three
hours of childish discussion to the strains of
“ Gor> Save the Queen.” Only the other
day the retiring president of this alleged
National movement brought tears to the eyes
of his hearers with a fervid speech, breathing
hopes that the young men of Australia would
cultivate a desire, and assert their “ rights,” to
cross the broad oceans and fight for Hingland until
further orders. Is The Bulletin, which stood
alone in Australia in protesting against the sinful
absurdity of the Soudan contingent, likely to pat
the followers of Purves upon their vacant skulls ?
And when “patriots ” such as these sent a lot of
dull-witted delegates to a caricature of a Federa-
tion Conference, to make platitudinal suggestions
in which no thought of national independence
could be detected, was The Bulletin to praise
that collection of weaklings because they were born
on —although far from being racy of—the soil we
would free from the tyranny of imported fetiches ?
In consistently decrying the Australian Natives’
Association, on its present demerits, The Bul-
letin is actuated, not less by a contempt for the
political utterances of that mutual admiration
society, than by a knowledge of the petty per-
sonal-motive-power which works the machine.
Good Natives and true, who join the Association
for the sake of its name, seldom force their way to
the front, and frequently retire, so far as attend-
ance at nestings goes, in sheer disgust. The
leaders, with few exceptions, are either decent
fellows cursed with a weakness for hearing them-
selves talk in public, or brazen-faced blatherskites
endeavouring to use the Association as a stepping-
stone to Parliament. Newspaper notoriety is all
they seek in the first instance —£300 a year is
what they would grip later on. The estimation
in which the A.N.A. is held in Victoria can be
guessed from the fact that the rising generation
of that colony buy The Bulletin more and more
every week.
Let Us Not Blink Pacts.
Anyone able to see an inch beyond his political
nose must recognise the fact that if a general elec-
tion were to take place in New South Wales to-
morrow Protection would suffer a crushing defeat.
The party has no organisation worth speaking of,
and even if it had there are no funds to give
effect to it. There might be a perfectly-organised
“ union ” posted on the political hill-top of every
electorate in the province, yet without funds it
would do about as much good in a fight as an 80-
ton Krupp gun would without powder or shot.
But what are these “unions?” The average cut
is for about ten or a dozen electors to constitute
the ruling power of the “local Protectionist As-
sociation,” and of these at least six wdl be
aspiring candidates for the one seat while the rest
will be all on the job, somehow or other, as
scrutineers, canvassers, or grog-purveyors. Such
bodies frequently claim the right to decide
who should contest an electorate in the Pro-
tectionist interest, while there often is not a
shilling at the back of the organisation
either to help a friend or stiffen a foe. The
party is individually numerous and earnest, but it
is nevertheless simply in the condition of a politi-
cal mob, and when opposed to the disciplined and
gilded legions of Calico it will have no more than a
mob’s chance. The tactics at present pursued by
the party’s leaders are simply puerile. They think
to fool Orangemen by boycotting candidates of
“the other colour,” and the result is that they
estrange the one without placating the other. They
sent to the Manning Peter Howe, an ancient
political barnacle named Kidd, and some nondes-
cript or other called Gough, the idea being that
as these were all sworn-in Orangemen they would
take the down off M'Kinnon, the Protectionist
candidate. As if Parkes’ friend and creature,
the Kiama Ghost, was to bo laid by this trio
solemnly sprinkling Boyne water over the national
Australian cause any more than by giving. Father
Mahogany half-a-sqvereign to exercise it with “a
pather” and an “ave.” That bogey, like the “Ro-
man Catholic vote,” will always appear in the poli-
tical arena solong as politicians can be terrified by it
as the Protectionist leaders now show themselves
to be, just as raw head and bloody bones’will
always be available for creating a similar panic in
the nursery. The spectres of old-world supersti-
tion, Orange and Popish alike, will have to be
dealt with in the fashion of men, not of children—
that is, they will have to be treated with contempt,
not cowered before or prayed to, as a lot of the
N.S.W. Protectionists are now doing. As soon as
an organisation begins either selecting or rejecting
candidates on grounds of religion or nationality
in this cosmopolitan country, it takes up the sword
by which it will perish as it deserves. The Pro-
tectionist electors must organise and take their
affairs absolutely into their own hands, otherwise
the coming elections will deliver New South Wales
over once more to the powers of Calico, front
which Heaven knows when it may escape.
—.+
Drunk or Hot Drunk ?
When the man Atkins, sentenced at Sydney to
be twice flayed alive during his five years’ im-
prisonment, was asked why sentence should not
be pronounced upon him, he told Chief Justice
Harley that he was drunk at the time of the
offence, whereupon the Judge called the arresting
constable, who deposed that the prisoner was per-
fectly sober when arrested. Possibly this was
quite true, but then possibly it wasn’t. What is
drunkenness ? How do you define the point at
which the normal responsibility of a man who
may at no time be normally responsible begins
and drunken irresponsibility ends ? The Bul-
letin has known policemen arrest suddenly-
paralysed people for being drunk on the grounds
that they couldn’t walk and smelt of liquor, and
there are hundreds of cases where perfectly
sober citizens have been arrested. when one or
more policemen have sworn that they were
drank. Only the other day in Sydney they
hanged a man named Hewart, who had
been arrested on a charge of destroying pro-
perty while drunk and was locked up in a cell with
another drunkard. During the night Hewart
fatally mutilated his cell-mate ; on being tried for
murder he pleaded drunkenness and said that he
remembered nothing of the act, but the police
deposed that he was perfectly sober and he was
carefully hanged—the v/iokedness of his crime
having been aggravated, according to Premier
Parkks, by the fact that he was a notorious
drunkard —and therefore probably weak-brained !
The Bulletin smiles at official and legal opinions
concerning drunkenness as distinguished from
medical opinions on the same subject. In the
Supreme Court the other day Judge Manning,
seeing a witness the worse for liquor, asked
him how much grog he had taken that
morning. “Two drinks, your Honor, both
schnapps,” was the reply. “Stand down,” said
the learned judge, “you’re just not drunk enough
to be sent to Darlinghurst prison for contempt.”
Beautiful and scientific distinction ! Why, the
other day the good and dignified Judge Windeyee,
of the same Supreme Court, straightway sent two
men to gaol for a whole year, without any sort of
trial, for appearing before him in a drunken con-
dition ! Two glasses of schnapps (from a Judge’s
club) might brace a witness up to give his evidence
with an agreeable frankness, two glasses of another
sort or at another time might incite him to try and
throw the witness-box at the judge’s head. One
thing is certain : opinions as to inebriety, pos-
sibly involving life or death, should always come
from a medical man. The average policeman can’t
differentiate epileptic fury from mere drunken
cussedness, and yet Constable X. has a profound
belief in his ability to unerringly diagnose alcoho-
lic excitement. We all remember the old story of
the officer who, when asked by the judge whether
the witness had been drinking, replied after pub-
licly smelling the subject’s breath, “ He has been
drinking rum, your Honor, and I persave also the
faintest tint of port-wine.”
The' formal opening of the new bridge across the
Yarra, at Melbourne, was a small and sickly
ceremony. The renunciation of the respected
name of “ Falls ” in favour of “Queen’s” (O, what
a fa’l was there !) instead of being made a subject
for elaborate apology, was treated as a matter to
be rejoiced, gloated, and drivelled over. Listen
to the words of Minister Davies, in his hour of
nauseous triumph
They had decided to call this new bridge the Queen’s
Bridge, and after Her Majesty had ceased to reign,
probably the extension of the city would be such that they
would have to erect a bridge still lower down. This
would be at the bottom of King-street and it would be a
good thing to call it King’s Bridge. They had Prince’s
Bridge, and now had Queen’s Bridge, and the erection of
King’s Bridge would complete the whole system.
After Davies had rolled this delicious morsel of
rhetoric under his toady tongue Little Lord
Hopetoun —standing bareheaded while the afore-
said individual held an umbrella up to preserve
his lordship from the influenza—expressed an
opinion that the people of Melbourne owed a debt
of gratitude to the Government for making such a
beautiful bridge, and asked all the distinguished
insects present to cheer for their beloved Sovereign
who had so graciously conferred her name
upon the new thoroughfare. The cry of some 30
or 40 “ distinguished ” geesers rent the air, after
which Davies suggested that the people owed
another debt of gratitude to Providence for mak-
ing such a beautiful Governor, and the company
adjourned to drink the Queen’s health. Then
little Lord H. called for more cheers for the
Queen, and another thread in the silken bonds
that bind us, &c., had been duly spun out. Mel-
bourne is growing fast, and we may reasonably
hope that the babes now being born within the
radius of the Yarra’s weird, peculiar smell will
live to see the setting up of a King’s Bridge and
the completion of that “ whole system ” which is
the groveller’s golden dream.
4.
Every year the New South Wales Foreign-traae
Association presents to the public an innocent
little balance-sheet in which it is made to appear
that there is not a “fiver” between the political
head-quarters of Calicodom and the Insolvent
Court. The Association gets up and walks
the financial tight-rope carrying a pole with
credit on one end and debit on the other,
and makes out that it is only by the most
dexterous contortions that it maintains its
balance. Let the New South Wales electors
take it straight from us this is all mere pantomime.
The resources of the Calico party are kept care-
fully concealed, and the struggling little “Free-
trade and Liberal” Association no more repre-
sents its real fighting power than a sick drummer-
boy does the strength of the German army. The
little £7OO account with its sickly debit or
credit balance of £5 is merely the figure-
head of the “machine.” There is at the
back Of the party unlimited money and
an energy in using it which contrasts forcibly
with the dilatoriness and close-dealing of
the other side. Take an instance. At the
last Newcastle election the issue of victory
or defeat hinged upon a fifty-pound note.
The day before the poll, however, Freetrade money
arrived in Newcastle from Sydney by the barrow-
ful, and the whole of that class of electioneering
agent which tries to conform to the ways, of Pro-
vidence by always being on the side of the biggest
financial battalions were on the morrow found
moored under the Calico flag. It being only a
question of a dozen or two votes as to who won,
this meant that to the National party fifty pounds
or so were saved while a seat at a most critical
juncture was lost. That is not,how the Foreign-
traders fight. What did they do in the recent
contest at the Manning ? On the day before the
poll it was found that owing to a rise in one of the
rivers a number of their supporters could not come
up to vote. What did the Calico-brigade do 1
Why, they engaged a squad of men at any price
they liked to name to build a couple of boats on
the night previous to the battle, and that section
of the Foreign-trade army were on the morrow all
ferried over to the scene of action. That is how
Hannibal and Napoleon fought battles. And
just ask Mackinnon what help he got from the
National Club. “Sugar,” dear friends, is the
modern god of battles.
■ ❖ •
Hebe is an extract from the article for addressing
which to President Kruger Editor M'Combie, of
Tkansvaal Truth, Johannesburg, was placed
under arrest by the Transvaal (Boer) Govern-
ment :
Is it worth while reasoning—respectfully reasoning—
and dealing with you as a reasonable being ? Three
years since I applauded your individuality. I then argued
the courage of your convictions, and the truth of your
patriotism, but I warned you of your egotism, your
limited vision, and the besotted acquisitiveness of your
clique. Do you think, sir, I care twopence for your
childish high-treason prosecutions ? If indicted, I would
defy you and all the machinery of your gang of official-
dom to convict and imprison me under the just laws of
the Republic, and under the segis of our suzerain power.
But it has just been, because I seek to preserve South
Africa from being again a plaything of Imperial interven-
tion—a toy to be spoiled and stained by dashing colonels,
mashing majors, and slashing lieutenants, that I implode
you, for your owm sake, for the liVes of your own people,
for the future glory, honour, prosperity, peace, and very
being of that United Africa to which you and I alike
aspire, to listen.
The time, brought about by your and the Yolksraad's
incapacity and greed, has come. I could, were I an in-
former, prove to you that dynamite-bombs are already in
the hands of men oniy too justly irritated by Transvaal
injustice, as they are too slenderly restrained by those
who, like myself, would rather proceed by peaceful and
persistent representations to the redress of our grievances.
Sir, the constitutional reformer of this State will be
powerless, in the face of the wholesale ruin and famine, to
prevent civil war and the capture of Pretoria by a mob of
infuriated and outraged citizens, barricades in Boksburg,
Judge Lynch, and an anarchic provisional Government in
Johannesburg, Machato in the low country, the Swazi es
in Barberton, and—British annexation !
Sir, we starve ! Our mines, that have poured three-
fourths of their wealth into your coffers) are about to be
shut down because of your greedy exactions and obstinate
refusal to expedite the means by which they can thrive
and afford to pay you. It you think you are to grind us
slowly out of existence, to extract the last fraction of
unjust taxation, thinking we will die quietly in our
toils, you err doubly. In our death-struggle we must
at least strangle you, and our complete offacement can
never be hoped to perpetuate nor to benefit you or yours.
This is plain talking. I say to you - Go, tell your Volks-
raad the old order is changed ; that they cannot starve
32,000 men, available for war purposes from Heidelberg to
Klerksdorp, and from Lydenburg to Agatha, so that you
and they may continue to get three-quarters of a million
per annum for doing nothing but tax us. Go and tell
thsm that you know the way is barred against trekking
outside of the incoming Spoorvveg and civilisation, and
that they must either, within three days of the meeting
of the Volksraad, agree to the newcomers’ demands and
friendship, or be shortly wiped off the pages of South
African history as nothing other than a contemptible and
ignored minority.
Sir, I have no wish to trace the disposal of the funds
we gold-seekers of the Transvaal have placed at your dis-
posal, through the different rivulets of its dissemination,
though I could fearlessly challenge the cleanliness of your
hands and prove the venal nature of your Cabinet. I con-
sider myself, at this actual stage of events, only justified
in fully warning you as to the consequences of furthei
duplicity and unreason on the part of the Volksraad, the
Executive and yourself. There are, to my knowledge,
forty thousand natives who, at the wave of an authorised
rebel hand, would launch themselves on you. Do you
want proofs ? Call me to your privy council and you shall
have them, upon your honour and inviolate confidence.
Sir, it is plain ; yon must with your Volksraad, either
meet our legitimate demands, constitutionally laid before
you, kill ns, or be fought by us. 1 prefer fighting you,
but I would much, much rather that you came to your
senses and met us.
Lord Coventry must be delighted wicn the
arrangement which his precious prodigal son,
Deerhurst, proposes for his creditors, viz. 10s.
in the £ down, and the remainder when the old
bloke kicks the bucket —we are convinced this is
the language in which Pan ton’s friend, Beerthirst,
would put it. Oscar Wilde says real life imitates
fiction, and not vice versa, and here is an instance,
for are we not all familiar with the fast young
man of novel or farce, who gives a post obit on
the Guv’nor ?
When the late Marquis of Normanhy
assumed the Governorship of the “Cabbage
Garden,” Graham Berry, Premier and Chief
Secretary, had not returned from the famous Em-
bassy on which he and Brofess-ah Pearson had
visited London. As soon as possible after his
return, and before an opportunity had offered of
meeting the Governor officially at the Executive
Council, Berry thought he would call at Govern-
ment House. Dismissing his cab at the gate, in
accordance with his characteristically-enonomical
practice, the Premier proceeded to walk up the
avenue, and, when about half-way, met and was
passing an old man dressed in shabby tweed and
with a “ billycock ” clinging to the back of his
head, who was strolling leisurely towards the
lodge. He had gone a few steps beyond this
unpretentious-looking party when he was accosted
with: “You are Mr. Berry, I presume? I am
the Governor.” The Chief Secretary turned and
discovered he was being addressed by the owner of
the shabby tweed. Surprised, and rather dis-
gusted, for he had desired to make a somewhat
more imposing entrance into the vice-regal Pres-
ence, Berry replied in the affirmative. “ Ah, you
see, though you didn’t recognise me, I did not fail
to recognise you,” was the gubernatorial response.
“ I haven’t been in the comic papers yet!” Berry,
it is said, never forgave Normanhy the implication
that it was to a “sugarloaf” caricature he was
indebted for identification—never, that is, until
Normanhy recommended him for a “ title ”


[?]
846 Macquarie-street North, Sydney, April 23,1890.
My Dba r Moorabinda,
The other day I saw in the S.M. Herald an advt. offer-
ing for sale—“A small mashing net and prawn net, cheap
suit private person.” The “ mashing net ” is, 1 suppose,
one of those giddy-looking veils with big beauty-spots on
them at regular intervals which one comes home opposite
to in the last tram or omnibus so often ; while the prawn-
net—well, all the tulle falls that get fresh, green youths
into hot water, ought to be christened so, of course. And,
speaking of veils, what does Sydney beauty mean by
going abroad in nets composed of thick checks, like mag-
nified meat-safe wire, put squarely over the visage ? I saw
a pretty girl—at least she looked generally as if she were,
I couldn’t see enough of her to judge—with a heavy black
one on last week. She looked like a headsman about to
inflict the extreme penalty of the law, so dismal and
terrifying was the effect. I cannot think that a girl with
her eyes, nose, and mouth in the right place would shroud
herself in a mask like that—these black-and-creara extin-
guishers must kindly conceal hare-lips, broken-noses, and
other disfigurements possible to the best-regulated young
female.
Sitting enthroned in the d.c. at Sydney Royal on 19th
inst., assisting at the inauguration of “La Tosca,” and
hemmed in by “ Liberty” silks, all looped the same way>
all cut in the same Y, and all worn as if they were extra-
neous matter never to be personally associated with their
wearers, it was no wonder that your Sappho found much
to admire in the drapings of “ Worth, of Paris,” on Cora
Urquhart Potter. Of course, the “Tosca” frocking is
decidedly fancy dress, and the only “wrinkles” to be
deduced from it are those of artistic draping and com-
binations of colour. In the first act the gown, made in
true Empire style in accordance with the era of the
drama, was of lustreless green silk dodgily combined with
cream silk embroidered with gold, the Empire waist
expressed by a watermelon-pink sash falling long on the
right side ; Empire scarf shawl (Mrs. Potter has discovered
that the secret of keeping these peacefully about the
person is to fold twice round the arm) of ivory silk with
the ends designed in gold ; Tosca cane and Tosca hat in
cream-coloured straw trimmed with touches of pink, and
a long green feather jutting out straight over the
nose, which looked at the side irresistibly like the
bunch of greens which are said to be hung half-
an-inch ahead of a jibbing donkey. Throb No. 2
in act two gave pause to all the women in front. The
skirt was in black heavily embroidered round the feet
with a floral design of sunflowers in dead gold ; the nar-
row snakey train coming from the shoulder-blades was in
black velvet powdered with gold stars ; the sleeves were
two large balloon puffs coming to about an inch below the
shoulder—the one black sprinkled with stars - the other
blush-pink, the colour of the somewhat sacriflcially-
arranged roses which, passed along the top of the back of
the bodice, appeared at the edge of the sleevelets and cul-
minated in one end of a floral boa hanging to the feet in
front. Head-dress of pink roses, with net of pearls round
the back of the low-dressed hair ; long Bernhardt gloves ;
and a Danae shower of property paste. In this act Helen
Kinnaird, as the Queen, was positively radiant in heavenly
blue with bouquet of forgetmenots. The gowning of
Mrs. Potter in act three was in the “ persecuted heroine ”
colour. Entering, she wore a dull green cloak which,
when thrown aside, revealed an Empire gown in faded
lilac finished at neck and sleeves with Valenciennes lace.
A deep bullion fringe fell from the end of the skirt—a
gold band with gold fringes clasped her uncorseted
diaphragm, while a perfect scrimmage in brass adorned
the front of the bodice. With this costume the Brown-
Potter elf-locks were worn extremely digagt, with
a “ Mulberry Bend ” bang—which same is a sort
of oval scrap of hair left in the centre of the forehead pro j
ducing the effect of a very small forage-cap on a very
swelled head. In acts 4 and 5 the gowning remains faded
lilac and gives one a chance to look away from “ Worth of
Paris” and comprehend that his customer is a pretty
wasp-like person with rolling eyes and arms Ijke umbrella-
ribs, and a strange, wild way of pouncing suddenly on to
people that would make her odds on Blind Man’s Buff. Of
course the house was crowded for the prdmibre, but,
taken altogether, it was the usual Passover-cake d.c.,
observable any Saturday, and I wasn’t a bit surprised
when a row of bedizened people behind me exclaimed
simultaneously “ That’s her!” as the star appeared. Lord
and Lady Carington (who brought more people than the
management had provided chairs for, brother Rupert
having to roost on a step until Goody ordered in an
“ Austrian ”) were in excellent spirits after their western
scamper, Lady Carington looking as fresh as a daisy and
wearing an ivory brocaded silk bodice and train over a
front of lace and net, the bodice cut square in front with
semi-Medici collar anil lace sleeves to the elbow; pearl
and diamond ornaments, white gloves; cream-lace fan and
head-dress of pink buds and fern-leaves. Miss Walenn wore
black lace and silk with ruby plush opera-cloak and red
moire sash. And the ham-fat woman breathed stertor-
ously in virgin white ; while a charmer in the O.P. stage-
box wore a crimson Tosca shawl in a way that suggested
fils.
On dit that at a recent much-anticipated official ball
neld somewhere under the Southern Cross, the company,
*s is usual on such occasions, was more than slightly
' mixed.” In consequence of which, when the National
Anathema had been played and the last reveller thrust on
to the kerb and the butler had retired to count the forks
and review the usual damage and wreckage of premises
attendant on mob functions, he wasn’t surprised to find
that all the towels placed in the ladies’ dressing-room had
performed the vanishing trick, together with a box of
pearl-powder, put there in a gallant but unguarded mo-
ment for the repayment of beauty. How they managed
to secrete the dryers is hazy, since the convenient im-
prover has gone out—but perhaps they combined them
artfully with their back draperies. However they
managed it, every towel was gone—but the host ought to
feel humbly grateful that they didn’t steal the combs and
brushes too.
This towel-grab should teach people who are obliged to
hold public ceremonies to leave those articles out of their
calculations in fitting up a ladies’-room. They are rarely,
if ever, needed except to brush powder off, and a hand-
kerchief performs that office well enough. Fancy a
woman washing her face immediately before parading
into a ball-room. Isn’t it a lovely idea ?
Which reminds me that I was once fixing my ringlets
in the dressing-room at a private chavoo when entered
two girls—the one rather rustically rosy and - be it said—
shiny ; the other the same sallow tint as a boiled parsnip.
No. 1, to take the polish off her epidermis, dusted herself
generously with powder, at which proceeding ho. 2
looked shocked, and freezing)}’ refused the puff when it
was tendered her. But just then she looked in the glass,
and as she saw her parchment cheeks she cast one mute,
conquered glance at her chum and started to flour like a
coryphee. I left her at it and smiled kind of sinister all
the way down stairs. Every sallow woman repudiates
powder until she is confronted with a mirror in a strong
light.
Speaking of dressing-rooms. It is a wonder that at
public balls people’s wraps don’t turn up missing in a
body since the attendants trust so to their iuemor.es.
Often have I had a cloak-fiend hand me my coverings
before 1 could find my tag. She generally said that she
“ knew my cloak,” which was very good of her—but sup*
posing she had got the drapery mixed up ? What an op-
portunity for a person of abstracting instincts to achieve
a superior garment with no questions asked? Whether
they remember or not, cloak-room deities should always
require the production of the wrap-tag—that Heaven-
sent safeguard in a maelstrom of boots and bonnets.
The Mayor of Sydney and Mrs. Burdekin seem to your
Sappho to be human prototypes of Mother Carey’s
chickens, since every time they bill a festivity the rain
descends and the floods come and mud surrounds the
civic ceremonies. The Mayoral ball was spoilt by a down-
pour, and the attendance at the Mayoress’s second recep-
tion on 16th inst., at the Exhibition Building, was
materially affected by the boisterous rain and wind and
general slushiness of the outside world. A mere thousand
or so turned up, mostly attired in last season s glories
wnth coffee-stains on the front breadths, topped by heart-
breaking hats, though there were one or two gets-up that
recommended themselves to the captious eye of yours
ever. The Mayoress, who looked very tired when I
arrived (of course you’ll poke fun at the construction of
that sentence), wore fawn silk designed in white and a
tartan stripe shading from rosella-pink to blue. It was
made with side panels of fawn net with roses in blue and
pink passementerie studded over it j vest of lace and pas-
sementerie and fringes of passementerie at the wrists, floral
bonnet of yellow flowers and emerald-green velvet bows
and strings ; white gloves, and a pale-pink handkerchief
completed the ensemble. A toilet that pleased me was a
black silk corded coat with ridged sleeves over a vest and
jupe of ivory-white brocaded silk, black hat adorned with
black and white plumes, white kid gloves ; while another,
equally charming, was in smoke-grey cloth with ridged
sleeves of grey velvet, bias band of grey velvet round the
feet, and velvet belt fastened by a huge silver buckle - a
“ Buffalo Bill ” hat in grey felt and sweeping feathers cn
suite setting off a very pretty face. The rest appeared to
be chaos. As for the men present-they were few and
infrequent and dejected. The building was gotten up
“ regardless ” with garlands, bunting and mirrors (twice
the number of men-decorators being engaged this time',
and string and brass bands, playing alternately,
struggled to put some “go” into the sodden proceedings.
The day cleared up slightly about 5 p.m„ to the delight
of those people who had come armed with gamps and
ulsters. As one large lady in a terra-cotta bonnet tersely
put it to a friend : “ After all, we didn’t want the dashed
things!”
A fascinating attache scintillating at an Australian
Government House went the other day into a shoe-shop,
and as the lady fitted on a Paris-built tootsie-case, her
gallant adorer plunged on to his knees to help her tuck
herself into it! Of course she looked scorchingly indignant
and shocked, but—he tied the laces all the same. Now,
there's a vice-regal precedent for you.
A little story has just reached me, illustrative of the
abysmal awfulness of lovely woman wffien she is on the
warpath after a novelty in autumn hats. At an “ exclu-
sive ” milliner's—whose “shop” is a private house in a
fashionable suburb, and who runs into two figures for n
bow of velvet with a brass pin in it and a French label —
two “ society ” girls met recently in search of “ unique \
topknots. No. 1 had in her fist a really “distangay’
confection, upon which No. 2 cast eyes of covetous longing.
But already No. 1 was giving directions when it was to be
sent home, and No. 2 retired into a corner to wrestle with
her rage when a happy thought struck her. Drawing
No. 1 aside in the full blast of her triumph, she said con-
vincingly: "Dear me, I wouldn’t buy it if 1 were you.
I saw an Impropriety with one on just like it, and you
know it doesn’t do,” etc., etc. No. 1 went pale-green at
the very idea, and countermanded the order on the spot.
But imagine her feelings when—at a festivity the following
week —she encountered No. 2, smiling and victorious, the
envy of all, with the debateable “ shapo” perched high on
her gold-washed locks. They speak no more.
The Hopetouns, bag and baggage, have returned to
their throne, to the deep delight of Toorak ; and in the
vain hope that they don’t read The Bulletin your Sappho
wants to rise excitedly and remark that she never saw a
peer with so rocky-looking a following in all her born
days—which are few and brief, of course. One long mem-
ber of the suite your Sappho especially remembers. He
had tomato locks and a nose en suite relieved with irre-
gularities of surface, and his eyes were like two burnt
holes in a red rag. With burst boots, no collar and a
dimpled hat he would have made an ideal unemployed of
the Statue variety. Even in a Bond-street get-up he sug-
gested stale tobacco.
Ruminating recently over the fashions displayed at
Randwick during Easter week, which are guides to what
is to be locally worn this autumn, I concluded that dark
colours—braided black, blue, brown will be the first
favourites ; that gladiator-red, mostly relieved with black,
will have a fair following ; that a tartan-gown will be in
the worst possible form ; that red parasols will wax in the
land ; and that low-crowned, wide-brimmed felt hats
trimmed with feathers, and small felt-hats and straw-
toques trimmed with pointed wings and a knot of velvet,
will be equally “ in it.” But I do not think the weird
Noah’s Ark garment that had so many admirers at Rand-
wick will find adherents on the Block. What is it like ?
It is a bag, with the ends slit open, gathered in at the
waist with a belt, and finished off with velvet sleeves
ridged up to your ears and a velvet band round the hem,
and it looks more like a doll’s frock than a covering for a
girl who is possessed of “ figure.”
The tenth and last Hazon orchestral concert at Sydney
Exhibition on 19th inst. struck your poetical Sappho as
resembling the song of the Dying Swan—being the
sweetest of all, and I was sorry to miss a great deal of it.
Arriving late and finding myself on the edge of a vast
S.R.O. throng, Something in the complicated magic of
my smile induced a high authority to procure me a piece
of derelict furniture at great personal risk, which had
also to ho placed on the edge of the audience. Why
people at the back invariably talk in hoarse whispers that
“percolate” to one’s inmost soul, I don’t know; nor
do I comprehend why children with head-colds and
copper-toed boots are hauled in, given walking-
sticks to thump with, and then turned loose during
strong solos? Also I want to rise with a shriek
and enquire why piebald dogs are allowed to run to and
fro in the main aisles while people say “ whoosh !” in a
blood-curdling whisper and the thread of harmony is
broken again? Even the vision of Mrs. Percy Jones, in
sea-foam-green silk, relieved with dark-green velvet cut
tart-shape, playing a “Concerto” of Litolff's with an
orchestral accompaniment (though it did sound, on the
whole, as if the piano was doing the accompanying) wasn’t
sufficient to quell the riot down where I sat enduring a
sort of plated martyrdom on a three-legged chair. As for
the people, Watts-Phillips came in a brown garment with
red in her hat, and brought Bessie Colville and Bessie
Rignold along, the latter wearing a girly white frock
topped by a black felt “Buffalo Bill” trimmed with red
poppies and her hair on her shoulders. Every-
body had on a floral topping, and to look over the
heads was just like guyinga garden—the women’s bonnets
being the posies while the shaven heads of the men re-
sembled bulb-roots, or potatoes, or poppy-pods. Next
Saturday (26th) a complimentary concert will be tendered
by the members of the orchestra to the conductor, Signor
Hazon and indefatigable Churchill Otton, when the
“ Festival” March, composed by Hazon and dedicated to
the Mayor of Sydney, will be performed in the presence of
Mr. and Mrs. Burdckin.
Yours affectionately,
SAPPHO SMITH.
A N.S.W. official declares that in dry
country rabbits pick bones and often eat burnt
rabbits.
The Australian Star’s very latest is a
portrait of tiie Wagga murderer, yet to be tried.
He has a pair of Stewart Island oyster shells for
ears, and the Star portrait shows five stitches on
the gash in his throat. This ought to hang him,
if they read the Star in Wagga.
Speaking on the Oleveland-club accusat-
ions, the British Attorney-General said he
“ would not subject per-sons to these horrible
accusations, on whispers from clubs or on catch-
penny newspaper paragraphs.” “Parnell and the
Times ! ’ shrieked the Opposition in a body.
The auction of White’s gambling-machines
brought to mind that of Hurtle Fisher's stud at
Maribyrnong 24 years ago, where Dick Tattersall,
scion of a worthy house, was auctioneer, in sight
of Fisherman’s grave, and Fishhook brought 3000
guineas,,only 1000 less than Titan. But Fire-
works only brought 200 guineas, and whipped the
lot in the hands of John Taft, he of Zoe, Volun-
teer, and The Barb.
The Equitable Life Assurance Society of
U.S., aremaking-a big plunge in Australia. They
have just bought for nearly £lOO,OOO a magnificent
George-street (Sydney) site on which they propose
to build a splendid office. Their accumulated
funds are £21,000,000 and their surplus over
liabilities, calculated on a 4 per cent, basis accord-
ing to N.Y. State law, is four millions of pounds
sterling. The company have at least two £20,000
life risks in Sydney.
John Haynes has. at Naraudera and other
places, been talking of France, Germany and the
United States as “low and degraded” countries.
John has never been to any of these countries,
and is only saying what he has heard the other
parrots say. The concluding portion of his
oration is invariably an exhortation to foster the
butter - industry and thus place N.S.W. in the
forefront of the nations of the earth. Now, Cork
is the centre of the Irish butter-market; John
hail from Cork, and Cork naturally comes to the
iV.vate Leuaiie, a trooper in the N.S. W.
permanent mounted infantry, who last week
entered the Supreme Court with his hat on and
twice refused to remove it when requested by the
judge to do so, explained that in the permanent
service it was contrary to rule to remove one’s
hat in court. On threat of committal Lenane at
last took off his hat. Mr. Lenane probably gets
his notion about hat-wearing in court from some
of the Imperial offic rs, who tell him that no
so’dior appears with uncovered head even in the
presence of the Queen. Judge Darlcy, who is a
tine specimen of the well-crusted Tory, hero made
a b'g mistake, from a Tory point of view, in not
deferring to the claim of Her Gracious’ uniform.
A new Protectionist morning paper appear*
to bo now on tin' stocks in Sydney. Until the
National Protectionist party establish such a
newspaper —and its establishment can only be
brought about by energy and pecuniary sacrifice-—•
they will be merely talking with the gasr on. The
Foreign-trade dailies now in possession of the field
are pretty fair liars£ but it is in the Art of Sup-
pression that they are past-masters. The day’s
impressions are formed from the morning paper,
and it is the lie which you read first that gets
hold of you —it is the man who gives the
first knock-dpwn blow who generally wins the
fight. If you read in the morning paper that the
ruffianly member for North Central Macquarie was
“ grossly insolent” to some paragon of a Minister
last night, what does it avail that the evening
paper hints, eight or ten hours after you have
mentally passed sentence on the Macquarie
ruffian aforesaid, that the saintly Minister was
half-drunk and started the row? So far as polities
go nobody takes much notice of the evening
papers—that is to say, they are never taken seri-
ously. The morning paper is a solid breakfast, the
evening paper is merely a smoke after dinner, and
sometimes not even that. It is all very well to
argue that this should not necessarily bo the case,
and that the evening paper is the coming power,
but actualities have to be faced. There is a
splendid commercial opening in Sydney for a
National-Protectionist morning paper. Wo cheer-
fully admit that much good work has been done
by the Star, especially in the way of counteracting
the dailies’ suppressions, hut yet we know that as an
educator of public opinion an evening paper has
never yet been a success in Australia, and even if
the Star were freed from the incubus of political
management it could, if only for the reasons
stated, never cope with the Herald and Tele-
grafh. It hasgot to quarrel with the Evening News
over the choice morsels from the police-courts and
inquest-rooms or die of starvation, as another
paper we could name would likely do were it not
spoon-fed by a rich proprietary who keep their
second journal alive chiefly for reasons of “ pres-
tige.” No evening paper can act as an effective
counterpoise to the immense journalistic power
wielded by the other and more wealthy side. All
over N.S.W. it is remarked that the Star never
reports Dibbs more than it can possibly help,
while Lyne, See, Garvan and Toohey—all directors
—would appeal* to carry a whole staff of verbatim
stenographers in their waistcoat-pockets.
CORRESPONDENCE
“E. 0.”; Trenwith argued from what he knew
and had experienced in Victoria. He based his reason-
ings on facts within the knowledge of his audience.
George argued from foreign facts not within the personal
knowledge of his audience and from theories which some-
how or other don’t work in practice ...“The Liberation
Prince ” : Yours is a capital letter, all “ capitals ” in fact.
....“ Morah We won’t libel the kangaroo by publish-
ing your screed “ Subscriber ” : Take ship to Natal or
Capetown, thence by rail and coach. Cost from £6O up-
wards. Wages for highly-skilled mechanics very high ;
for miners, owing to employment of coloured labour,
miserable. The boom has collapsed. Take our advice—
don’t go “E.S.E.”: Tom Moore and water
“ A. 8.5.” : The delay in publishing the “ Golden Shanty”
is due to negotiations about an English edition. The
work is now well on its way through the press ...
“ A.R.P.” : following the example of Scotland, in thirteen
American States children are legitimatised by the mar-
riage of their parents; also in twenty-two other States,
subject to the acknowledgment of the offspring by the
father. (2) In several American States the penalties for
bigamy are remitted after five years’ utter disappearance
of the first husband or wife ; in other States the period is
seven years, as in Australia, while in some oases it is
reduced to three years. In one State cohabitation for
three years in general repute as husband or wife consti-
tutes marriage, and in Arizona a like cohabitation for one
year is sufficient “C. Woods”: (1) 2s. 6d. at George
Robertson’s. (2) Is. at 74 Castlereagh-street, Sydney....
“T. Boyle”: At the general election, November and
December, 1880 “ Vera ” : Cremated... “A Stuart ” •
No Sydney ped. can spell, far less compose, poetry. Your
verses, therefore, lack verisimilitude “Taraballa”:
Better, but not in our style... .“E.E.S.,’: We believe
that the first Masonic Lodge was opened in Sydney in
1814 by officers of the 46th Regiment. .. “ Protectionist
As to the announcement made by Mr. E. B. L. Dickens,
M.L.A. for Wilcannia in theN.S.W. Assembly, to the effect
that he has ratted to Foreign-trade, the Foreign-trade
party are quite welcome to Mr. Dickens, who is a dead
failure, anyway. He possesses merely his illustrious
father’s nose,'and was perhaps elected chiefly because he
bore his father's name. Edward Bulwer-Lytton Dickens,
Esq., couldn’t have been a more miserable member of
Parliament if he had been the result of a matrimonial
union between Sraike, or the Fat Boy, and Fanny Squecrs.
Ho must be forthwith cast out into utter darkness by the
National party “ A. J.S.” : Graham Berry was SO years
old when he arrived in Australia “Bohemian”: Un-
suitable “ S.A.E.”: We don’t want to see or hear any
more about your “handsome illuminated testimonial;”
and we don’t see why you should be “ proud” of it. We
don’t believe in testimonials because we don’t care a rap
what the Smiffkinses individually or in the aggregate
think of us. We once heard an hotel housemaid say to a
drummer with a hook nose and four diamond rings that
she “ always let the gentlemen kiss her because it was
less trouble to be kissed than to resist in hot weather.”
She was a North Queensland housemaid, by the way. It
is easier to sign a testimonial than to argue the matter
with the man who hawks it round for your signature,
and on this principle we would cheerfully sign a testi-
monial even to Judas Iscariot... “ H. Bennett ” (Mel-
bourne): We admit the accuracy of your criticism
“ G.1I.”: You don’t tell us anything striking about
Rochefort. Ho is a vain man, we all know “ S.W.” :
Your verses on the vachting-adventures of Want,
Q.C , almost amount ro an indictable offence
“ E. A. Cartier” (South Africa): An excellent story
“ L.E.M.” (R’hampton): Such things will eventually right
themselves no doubt, but meanwhile this mysterious
subordination to the will of the hypnotissr is appall-
ing. Hypnotism is real enough “ A.M.M.” (Jim-
bour): How can you expect a corporation to “ think pith
fully” of a poor family ?....“ D.U.W.” (Maryborough):
Thanks, but it was all published in the Southern papers
some time ago “ Opotiki ” (Dunedin); Good verses
“ A.M.J.”: We don’t agree with you. Fear is the only
motive power of monarchs in granting concessions to
Democracy. Fear caused all the reforms in England.
Fear prompts the German Emperor. Fear works upon
the Czar, with his awkward gambols, in trying to concede
some reforms while asking, “Who's afraid?” “Wan-
derer ”: Second-hand and, though good, by no means of
rare excellence “J. H. Power ”: Gerald Massey is an
Englishman ; he was scarcely old enough to take part in
the political struggles of ’48... . “ Wasooe ” : What's the
matter with quicklime ? Quicklime would be just as good
as cremation A bushel or two buried with a body destroys
it at once “ Walter G.” (Waverley) : Many thanks..
“ W.M.” (C.-street) : Will read and consider... “ Old Eng-
land” : We aren’t impressed with his daring. The present
writer has had an apple chopped on his hand—by Parker.
.. “ J.K.” (Haydenton): Very diffuse, hut will try and
boil down “ J.A.F.” (E. Vale) : Much obliged ; will use
some of them “ H.C.J.” (Darling River) : Glad to hear
from you; under consideration “J.J.C.” (Dubbo): In
the United States the jury, broadly speaking, fix a homi-
cide’s punishment by returning a verdict of “guilty”
in either one of the three legal degrees. When a jury
has this power, the tendency, of course, is in favour
of a humane sentence. Mill inquire about the books—
“ J.C.T.”: Under consideration “Nala”: It doesn’t
look originala “A.J.8.” (Coleraine): We had seen it
before, but thanks all the same “Consultation”: Me
advise you to stick to the older ones. Wo don’t know
anything about “ Australia.”.... “ P.G.8.” : Glad you are
pleased with this beastly country—“ ILL.M.” (Broken
Hill); We sympathise with you, for we have been there
ourselves, but what can we do in the matter? You must
try for justice on the spot. Every community of miners
has a strong sense of justice “ The Milkman ”: Picric
acid—but we don’t think you can buy it at a druggist’s.
The Imperial emblems have been removed
by the French Republic from the tomb of
Napoleon.
“ Every time a cock crows a lie is being
told.” Cocks crow chiefly at sunrise—when the
daily papers are being published.
The Eight-hours procession has been car-
ried out in Melbourne with the customary eclat.
The Church of England Cathedral rang its joy-
bells. Beautiful! Beautiful ! The happy workmen
felt a glow, remembering how they owe everything
to the clergy, who never by any chance side with
the Rich. Oh yes, Rev. Lavender waves his cam-
bric in sympathy. “Co on, my men.


A GHOST
is not a photograph, nor a photo, a ghost—but a good photo, is a
true reflection of the original. For high-art photos, go to the
London Palace of Art, 10 Park-street, Sydney. Country photographers’ woVk from developement
to completion executed at lowest prices. Bromides a, speciality, Staff of artists kept for working up.
Photography.— Charlemont and Co. (vice-regal
photographers), in tire Royal Arcade, beg to an-
nounce that they have now reduced the price of
their Cabinet Photographs to 15s. per doz.
any style—bust, vignette or three-quarter figure.
Messrs. Charlemont feel assured that this reduc-
tion in price will meet the many who refrained
from sitting ip their studio, solely on account of
the price hitherto being higher than; they might
care to pay-'/ CrosVenor Galleries', Royal Arcade.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Theatre Koval “La Tosca.”
Rer Majesty's “Now-a-Days.”
Criterion “Nemesis.”
School op Arts Maooabe.
Darlinoiiijrst Skating Rink.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Theatre Royal “A Noble Vagabond.”
Princess’s “ The Don.”
New Bijou “Caste.”
Opera House “ Paul Jones."
Alexandra “ My Jack.”
The Gaiety Harry Rickards
St. George’s Hall .... Cogill Bros. Company.
“ La Tosca ” is a great play, probably the
strongest tragic-drama of modern times, and the
name-part is, therefore, one that only an un-
doubted genius could adequately fill. Genius, on
and off the stage, is a rare quality, and it is on
that account not surprising that Mrs. Brown-
Rotter fails to realise a character whose oppor-
tunities few living actresses (they could be counted
on five fingers) are fitted to grapple with. In the
first act she affects a petulant skittishness that
assorts badly with an assumed and unsympathetic
voice, here and there suggesting an out-of-place
and feeble attempt to speak in broken English.
So far as we are concerned, Mrs. B.P. only con-
vinced us once, only once did something so
naturally that the actress was forgotten—in
the Villa Cavaradossi scene when, her jealous
doubts dispelled, after a few sobs she throws her-
self with a little cry on the bosom of her
gallant painter. From this and other circum-
stances, particularly her love-making capa-
bilities, we are inclined to imagine, despite
her staginess, that the lady might attack
comedy parts with some measure of success.
There are only two parts in “La Tosca,” Kyrle
Bellew, as the Baron Scarpia, has the other one.
Scarpia demands from its impersonator great
attention to minutiae, much polish, and an appa-
rent reserve of force. In all these particulars,
Bellew (who looks like Arthur Lawrence and
occasionally elocutes after the manner of J. H.
Clyndes) was successful; but, when he had an
opportunity of letting himself go, it became evi-
dent that he neither had the lung-power nor the
vim necessary to the storming of the topmost
heights of passion. It has been said that his act-
ing saves the play, but it must not be forgotten
that Scarpia, unlike “ La Tosca,” could be per-
sonated successfully by many living actors.
Edward Sass, as Mario Cavaradossi, has little to
do but look lovely and hug hard ; in the first par-
ticular he fills the bill, but, in spite of the impor-
tunity and warm caresses of the dainty diva,
is a lamentable failure as a Romeo of the
hot-blooded, Italian school. Helen Kinnaird
is one of the few queens suited in appearance for
the position ; the versatile Pollie Emery .is a good
Genarino. As Cesare Angelotti, H. W. Diver
looks more like a moved-on Italian pipe-player
than a hunted revolutionary, and to the regurgi-
titating gurgle of his lengthy retrospect in the
first act its flatness is chiefly due. Messrs. Gerald
Moore, Musgrave and Bolton are capable in small
parts, and Mr. Boulton supplies with a lavish
hand the fatted calf that graces the Scarpian
shambles. George Gordon’s scenery is very fine,
the stage-appointments are good, and the Sydney
Royal people have, after a weary wait, got a sure
draw.
** * *
“Nemesis,” that pot-pourri of sweet
melodies, culled from the works of all the best-
known composers, barring Handel and Harry
Rickards, strung together on laughter-compelling
lines and ridiculous situations, we first saw at
Melbourne Opera-house in the hands of Ernelie
Melville, George Leopold rt Cie-, about fifteen
years ago. With excellent orchestration, good
scenery (Vannermark got an ovation for his villa-
scene), new and tasteful costumes, and the aid of
seme modern music, it now goes at the Sydney
Criterion as well as ever. The Misses Tree and
Graupner are in excellent voice ; Clara Thompson
gets a lot of fun out of Turlerette, the amorous old
maid ; Bracy never sang better in his life (note for
ambitious tenors —he never attempts too much),
and Knight Aston and John Forde, as the retired
warrior and buttonmaker are more amusing than a
chest burdened with influenza could desire. The
Gaiety “ Pas des Trois ” is creditably danced by
Tilly Lake, Aggie Atherton, and Jessie Thornton,
iff * iff
At Sydney Her Majesty’s, Clint has lately
painted a very beautiful English landscape for the
third act. “Now-a-Days” is going better than
ever, and, although the management have another
piece in active preparation, this pure, manly
melodrama will probably hold the boards for weeks
to come. Two little faults, one the author’s, get
more in evidence with better acquaintance—first,
the continual itching on someone’s part to shake
hands with an unwilling other fellow; second,
the seedy character of the bookies in the con-
cluding act, to whom Dick Dowling expresses his
acceptance of the baronet’s racing liabilities—they
look more like half-crown welshers than the sort
of folks with whom anyone would bet in thou-
sands.
iff iff iff iff
A grand carnival, the first of the season,
will eventuate at the Darlinghurst Skating Rink
on the evening of Wednesday the 30th April,
when all the beauty and fashion of Sydney may be
expected to make things hum on the whirling
wheels. So far business has exceeded the fondest
managerial speculations.
* * * iff
The dramatised version of the “ Cricket
on the Hearth,” in which Toole has been con-
sistently failing to make a deep impression on his
audience for the last 80 years or so, was set up at
Melbourne Princess’s on Saturday, and with the
usual result. The pathos of the low comedian’s
representation of Caleb Plummer is a stereotyped
fiction, loyally maintained by the English Press
against tlie overflowing odds of public opinion.
Australian daily drearies can likewise be relied on
to magnify the name of J.L.T. in this, one of his
weakest parts, but the true facts of the case stick
out too far to admit of any unprejudiced observer
giving way to enthusiasm unless bis sense of duty
to the management compels him. Not being in
his own little theatre with a number of old per-
sonal friends and admirers seated in front, it was
inevitable that Toole’s emotional efforts should fall
asflatas a flounder on Saturday. His Caleb Plummer
is now, as lie always has been, a colourless, unin-
teresting old fellow, who knows every trick of the
acting trade. And if a criticism to this effect
seldom, or never, has found its way into the
“recognised organs” of public opinion, it is be-
cause said organs are specially designed and
ordered to lie like the obituary notice of a crowned
head. As for Mr. Toole’s company, they contrive
in most cases to perpetrate hideous caricatures of
Dickens’creations, and it is a pity some of them
were not allowed to stand aside until they were
required again for the farces wherein their long
practice gives them considerable value of an acro-
batic kind. Miss Effie Liston is a ponderous,
massive Dot, who might do for “Little Butter-
cup ” if she possessed a ghost of a voice.
A Miss Jenny Donald excites profound scorn,
Miss Irene Vanbrugh is the merest novice
of a blind Bertha, and Miss Eliza John-
stone’s lack of semblance to Tilly Slow): oy
is specially pointed out in a quotation from
Dickens, on the playbill. “ She was of a spare
and straight shape, her garments dropping off her
shoulders,” says the programme, after read
ing which the eye falls upon a nice, human dump-
ling—a large, bright, saucy looking romp. Miss
Eliza Johnstone, by the way, was referred to as
“ Charlotte Saunders ” in a back number of The
Bulletin. The obvious mistake was caused by
confusion of ideas in a flood of recollections, and
as everybody knew that Saunders wasn’t there
and Eliza Johnstone was, it would have been all
the same if we had called her Sarah Siddons. Mr.
John Billington, a sound actor with a thick
tongue, always makes his mark as John Perry-
bingle, and it was to him that the drama owed its
little final spurt on Saturday.
*■ -k * -X-
-“ The Spitalfields Weaver ” brings Toole
right back to popularity. It is a good, old-
fashioned medium for a display of good, old-
fashioned fooling. Billington, too, is effective
again, as the central, serious figure, although he
gives the retired weaver an accent which is iden-
tified with the industry at Macclesfield, and not
London. On Saturday they will play “The
Don,” without a farce to follow.
** * *
At the Royal a week’s revival of “ Never
Too Late To Mend ” is enabling Charles Warner
to let off steam with his characteristic vehemence.
Herbert Flemming and Miss Maud Williamson
likewise distinguish themselves at the head of a
capable body of minor characters, among whom
Miss Grade W. flings herself once more into the
breeches, dear friends, with greater success than
she did a while ago. “A Noble Vagabond ”is to
try to wake up matters here on Saturday.
** * *
“My Jack,” late of Her Majesty’s,
Sydney, was received with an intermittent whistle
of shrill delight at Melbourne Alexandra
My Jack he is a sailor lad
Who ploughs the raging main,
And always hugs his dear old dad
When he comes home again ;
Although that salt, so free from fault,
The villains will pursoo,
He’s safe ashore, in Melbourne, for
A rousing month, or two.
Which is a metrical mode of predicting that this
child of the ocean is likely to perch on the main-
top of prosperity for a considerable period. “My
Jack ” has the appearance of a very filling show
at Alexandra prices. It is freer from gore and
dead bodies than most of its dramatic relatives,
and the interest is held up by an element of
humour at places wher-e, in the ordinary way,
you expect to find a hapless heroine being knocked
silly with a shovel. It frequently derives its suc-
cess from soft touches of nature rather than from
hard blows delivered by a brick. Moreover, the
performance comes out above par when a fair
average is taken. The Doolan of Dampier is a rare
broth of a bhoy, begorra, with a tangible brogue
and a head that fires the imagination like a
burning coal. His broad comedy has an air
of personal enjoyment about it and catches
on contagiously all the time. So with Miss
Katherine Russell. Baker makes a fresh, free,
natural young Christian of the hero, and Miss
Lily Dampier undoubtedly effects a graceful ad-
vance in the direction of the Temple of Fame.
She might fly there straight away if she were not
burdened with a deep contralto, to which she
clings in spite of repeated admonitions. Some of
the others are highly tolerable, but it is about time
that the too-frequently-mechanical Boothman was
taken to pieces and oiled. He has settled down
into a long, regular stride, like a gallant ’oss,
and there is nothing sensible about him just
at present. He wants a new delivery and a
fresh frown, and a different glare. Likewise his
sealskin waistcoat is continually popping up like a
brown, furry memory of a bitter :past, and take
him altogether he calls for a change of tactics
without delay. “My Jack ”is put upon the stage
in that liberal style which has done much to
popularise the Alexandra, and if the money ex-
pended on it doesn’t come floating back, like
bread upon the waters, the management will want
to know the reason why.
** * *
“Diplomacy” has been doing very well
at the Bijou, but not well enough to be carried
over for another week. Some of the performers,
notably calm Count Orloff Brough, seem to
improve on further consideration, and some seem
to do otherwise, always assuming ■ that, being
high-class actors, they are judged by a standard
worthy of their merits. On Saturday they are
sure of a warm welcome in “Caste,” for Robert-
son’s comedy hasn’t had a fair show in Melbourne
these many years.
# #
“Paul Jones” goes on to crowded houses
night after night, St. George’s Hall flourishes and
Rickards holds out at the Gaiety where Katie
Rickards was able to reappear on Saturday. A
lot of other things are nice as usual.
H:- if:- * »
H. H. Vincent finished up his 14 years of
useful work in Australia with a clever perform-
ance of Jaikes in the third act of “ Silver King,”
Warner playing the white-haired young penitent
and Miss Warner spreading her youthful inno-
cence over the part of Nellie. Everybody worth
seeing took a hand at Vincent’s matinee, and,
with such an assortment of good things to choose
from, the fact that “ Ici on Parle Francais ”
seemed to go best of all, was a hopeful sign for the
tour of old man Toole.
■Hs
“ Mr. Bellew, now, about stage hugger-
mugger, floor-mopping, and sofa-swabbing——”
Belle wj: I see, you’d like to have something about
the various styles. Well, Ellen Terry comes at
you with a mixture of the antelope and the gnu.
She’s soft, easy, velveteen-like, and catchy. Mrs.
Bernard-Beere you have to look after. She
comes rushing at you like a panther, and if you
don’t look out you go head over tip, or when you
recover there’s your watch hanging out, and the
people laugh. If you ain’t the mash, they’re care-
less. Booth, as Othello, couldn’t at all grab Ellen
Terry as Desdemona. You must learn beforehand
whether the actress is leonine, tigerine, leopardine,
or lynxine. Fast time, unprepared for, may cap-
size you over a settee heels uppermost, and how do
yon look ? On the other hand, the slow-tirners
clutch like limpets, or octopi, and spoil your biz.
They will catch your eye, and that means robbing
you of all its magnetism on the stalls. You want
a good biceps, strong elbow, good piano-string
fingers. If an actress grips yon, you’re lost.
You’re not even second fiddle. She’s all the
orchestra.
4* « « «
Mr. John Coleman, it is cabled, purposes
making a lecturing tour through Australia and
New Zealand. This must be ex actor Coleman,
a more or less crushed genius who is now only
known as the writer of more or less feeble yarns
for Loudon theatrical magazines. He is the man,
we believe, who formerly used to break out as
“Henry the Fifth” and invariably dropped his
cash. Handsome George must look to Coleman if
he comes over.
* * *
Mr. (1. B. Allen, the composer of many
well known anthems, songs, &c., and the origina-
tor and producer of Sullivan and Gilbert’s operas,
the first of which, “ The Sorcerer,'’was conducted
by him, has just passed through Sydney en route
for Brisbane, in search of health for his wife, and
proposes to take up his residence for a time in the
North. Mr. Allen’s systematic course for teaching
the pianoforte is now adopted at the great Guild-
hall school of music in London, which boasts of
some three thousand pupils ; and as he claims
many of our leading professional singers as pupils,
his coming ought to be welcomed, if he intends to
follow his professional avocations.
“ The Union Jack ” has been flying boldly
at the Adelaide Royal for a period of two weeks,
and this is an exceptionally good run for a piece
in that city. The success of Bland Holt’s season
now seems assured, and great preparations have
been made for the production of “Master and
.Man ” which is to be served up in his best style.
We will have something to say about it next
week. At Garner's Theatre the Cogill Brothers’
company are also in the tide of success. Slade
Murray scores as usual with “Good Old Mary
Ann,” while the Bonhairs, Dave Gardner, Charley
Pope, and a host of others keep things warm and
comfortable.
At Poverty Point.
Sarah Bernhardt, it is cabled, really intends coming- to
Australia next year (but vve don’t believe it for an in-
stant.) In the meantime, Mrs. Brown-Potter is giving us
feeble caricatures of the divine Sara’s finest impersona-
tions. (!
Lady Hallb’s place at the London popular concerts has
been filled by Herr Johann Kruse, the young Victorian,
Insecticide Kruse’s son, who owed his musical education
to Melbournian generosity.
There being a current idea that a certain gentleman
with the secret of everlasting youth has had his nose put
out by the young-and-beautiful-for-ever Bellew, we are
happy to subjoin the following foreign testimonials
French; Le plus jeune des jeunes premiers c’est M.
Georges Darrell.
German : Georg Darell, der jungste Mensch auf dcr
Bordsch.
Italian : II mio amico il Qiovanissimo Georgio Dariello.
And we haven’t even begun with the ladies ! Darrell
first, Bellew blowing in the pads.
Mr. Leopold Lewis, who adapted, or rather wrote, “The
Bells” from “ Le Juif Polonaise,” died in a London hos-
pital the other day. Irving ought to erect a monument
of gratitude to the author who was thepnnocent means
of making his (celebrity. But for “ The Bells,” in which
he found his opportunity, the great man might never
have gone higher than £2O a week as first villain.
“ Jimmie Pannikin,” a valued contributor, informs us
that the apparently wild statements concerning the musi-
cal ability of Jessie M. Spring, a Richmond River prodigy,
are not overdrawn. She is seven years old, and her
parents intend to give Sir Charles H-allC a specimen of
her wonderful ability when he arrives.
Kitty, the relict of “Mr. Crowley,” a deceased chim-
panzee, whom she did not long survive, died recently at
New 7 York. The refinement of this unhappy pair, mourned
in consequence by the city’s elite, was so remarkable that,
like many a “colonial experience” man, they could not
b 2 persuaded to take a meal without a knife, fork, and
napkin
A Sydney lady-writer “ regrets to record the fact of
Frank Thornton’s return to the old country.” As he is
playing at Sydney Gaiety the regrets are premature.
“Ye Brushe Clubbe ” had a smoke-concert at Sydney
Foresters’ Hall the other evening, when the pictures
successful in the Sands’ figure competition were shown
among others, and a very pleasant evening was filled in
with songs, recitations, and the circulation of the flow'ing
bowl.
Florence Menk-Meyer, the young and charming com-
poser and pianiste, who will make her first Sydney ap-
pearance in theY.M.C.A. Hall on 6th May, is a native
of St. Kilda, Victoria, and studied her profession in the
great Continental schools of music. She is a grand-niece
of Rubenstein.
The Duke of Edinburgh Theatre, lately burnt at
Hokhika, was erected in 1867. All the work was cut out
and mortised (in Sydney, and sent over with the parts
numbered. Amongst the first performers in it during the
gold time were J. J. Bartlett and Julia Mathew's.
Amongst other presents made to Miss Mathews on her
departure was a very handsome piano, w'hich she lost
next day whilst it was being hauled from the tender on
board the steamer.
Widow O’Brien Sheridan opens 10th May at Sydney
Criterion.
Says Rosina Vokes, and she ought to know. “ Every
actress ought, as far as possible, to rely upon her ow r n
hair. A wig, however becoming, is an inanimate thing
and not in sympathy with the expression of the face. You
see w'hen I raise ray eyebrows my hair moves also; if I
wore a wig this would not be so. My r eyebrows might
almost touch the wig, but the latter would not budge. In
this way the expressions of the face lose effect.”
Tenor Tamagno, now with Patti, is a tall, powerfully-
built man, more like a Norseman than an Italian. He
declares that he will retire from the stage soon, as the
life involves too many sacrifices. “ I cannot smoke ; I am
fond of it. I cannot drink, and I am fond of good wine.
I cannot go out in any kind of weather, and I am fond of
the open air.” Lots of people who don’t go on the stage,
but could if they wanted to, are now fitted out with
several first-class reasons.
Jeannie Winston, well-known in opera-bouffe to Austra-
lian theatre-goers of 15 to 20 years ago, and especially re-
membered by reason of her stage fracas with Clara
Thompson Bracy, was to have played the Christ, at New
York, on Easter Monday in a Passion Play named “ The
Young Messiah.” Probably she didn’t though, for the
whole thing was religiously damned in advance as a most
blasphemous production and a disgrace to the stage.
George Coppin proposes to make what will be positively
his last appearance in Victoria at Sorrento in a character
to be decided by the vote of the subscribers to raise funds
for the erection of a Town-hall and the purchase of a
piano for that popular suburb. It is proposed to lay the
foundation-stone on Queen’s Birthday.
Fred. Maccabe opens at Sydney School of Arts on
Saturday first in “ Begone Dull Care.” He will be assisted
by Mdlle. Minnia in the “ Magic Statue,” and doubtless
will do big biz.
Manager Abbey says that Mary Anderson was allowed to
be “ ill this season ” on the understanding that she would
return to the Abbey fold “ as soon as she was able.” As
she is now to be married, she will probably not be “ able ”
soon.
“The Ocean Wave,” at Hengler’s Circus (Lon.), is the
new craze. The arena is filled by rolling green billows
surmounted by six yachts. Each boat carries 120 people,
and the fare is one shilling'. Life-buoys, life-boats, sailors,
captains, stewards, and even stewardesses with tin-basins-
are very much in evidence. When yen set off the thunder,
rolls, tire lightning-flashes, the air is darkened and the
wind rises, in fact, the whole thing is recommended as a
capital training-ground for “those about to takeaaca-
voyage.”
“ Sweet Lavender ” will be staged at Sydney Gaiety on
Saturday.
A London barber of Italian origin, asked to sing by a
vocalist who frequented his shop, did so with such energy
that he dropped dead' from a rupture of the aorta and a
large blood-vessel on the brain just as he laid down his
music to pick up a lather-brush.
Simonson’s Opera Company have been playing “Madame
Angot,” “Maritaua,” and “Qirofle.” at. Broken Hid with
Elsa May, E. A. Lambert, Warwick Gainor, Jules Simon-
sen, and Fred, Dark.
Amy Horton, the clever little burlesque actress, tl e
daughter of an old Glasgow lady-singer and the wife o
an alleged honourable, who first visited Australia about U
years ago, will, it is cabled, appear in a burlesque written
by Fergus Hume.
The recently-dissolved firm tossed up a while ago. for
scene-painters; the other- day they raffled their stage-
managers. Royce fell to W. and G. Emery was appor-
tioned to Musgrave.
Some Melbourne critics, having with discerning truth-
fulness remarked that Mrs. Brough had made great, ad-
vances in the profession since her last Melbourne appear-
ance, a local writer, moved mysteriously to contradiction,
asserts that “ Mrs. Brough lias always been known as an
artiste of the first rank, and the very best (without excep-
tion) of the very few who were able to pourtray a young-
woman of gentle birth and breeding.” The italics are
ours, the toramyrot in this quotation is the other fellow’s.
A benefit will be tendered, in the Sydney' Exhibition
Building, on Saturday afternoon, to Signor Hazon and
Churchill Otton by the members of the orchestra in
recognition of the admirable assistance they tendered
gratuitously during the late concert series in that
building. .
AV. and G. have leased Sydney Royal from Musgrove for
the B, -P. season.
The latest “ freaks of nature,” at a popular Sydney l
place of amusement, are an official assignee and several
bailiffs. Let us hope that the trouble will soon be got
over.
London Truth takes a fearful rise out of
Tiger Inglis’ Indian wild-beast stories.
Everyone seems to be complaining of “La
Grippe.” We can recommend Marshall’s Tonic
Nervine.
There are barely a million acres under
cultivation in N. S. Wales. Victoria cultivates
2,225,000 acres.
Kaiser Wilhelm is patron of the Bismarck
monument-fund. He is burying Bismarck .ere
Bismarck is dead.
“Is marriage a failure 1” Ask Sir Blank
Blank. Mind you, we aren’t referring to his old
rival, Sir Blanky Blank.
One of the officials imported by Railway
Commissioner Eddy, of N. S. W., is named Deodatus
Herodotus Thaumasius B. Meale.
Sir Chas. Russell, the London barrister,
has earned £3OOO in a week, and got £6OO in one
day, for one case at the Leeds Assizes.
For the Victorian loan of £4,000,000, for
which the Foreign-trade press predicted failure,
£14,000,000 were offered at 3i per cent.
The police at Normanton (Q.) think then-
wooden “jug ” so insecure that they put all their
confines in irons every night, whether under sen-
tence or only awaiting trial !
Archdeacon Wilson (C.E.), of Dubbo, Avho
is about visiting England for the' benefit of his
health, is an old pressman, and was editor of an
illustrated Sydney paper many years ago.
A certain well-known N.S.W. political
saddler is so “ conscientious ” that he will not
attend a race-meeting or subscribe to one, but h<
makes and sells racing-saddles for all that.
TO Dan. Mayne, of the Bathurst (N.S.W.)
Sentinel, has struck a new patch in the matter of
names. He derisively christened his eldest sen
“ Colonel ” and his daughter “ Marchioness.”
When D. C. M‘Arthur opened his branch
of the Bank of Australasia at Melbourne in 1838
he bad just £3OOO to start with, and kept two
ferocious bull-dogs on the premises to guard the
treasure.
An Adelaide parson has gone bung for
£10,000; assets, just about half that amount. He
attributes his woes to gambling in shares and
buying a brewery. Open confession is good for
the soul.
A Cambridge (Eng.) girl has thrown fresh
light on the great suicide subject by soaking her-
self with paraffin and then going out into the
back yard to burn. She was “done to a turn”
when she breathed her last.
The N.S.W. Single-taxers claim that
A. G. Taylor has found grace, and that he will
contest his old electorate as a George.ite. Taylor
would probably get in for Mudgee if be contested
it as a Mormon or a cannibal.
The Parkes Ministry, it is safe to bet, will
not, next session, tackle the task of “removing
every protective duty from the N.S.W. tariff. ’
Their arranged game' is to let the tariff severely
alone and shuffle over the Local Government Bill.
Thomas Cosgrove, convicted last week, at
Sydney, of attempted dynamiting and sentenced
to ten years imprisonment, had a very bad case
from the start, but was in addition greatly handi-
capped by appearing in the dock with an obviously-
dyed beard.
The Southern Cross laments over the
death of Rev. Davies, a young Australian mis-
sionary sent to convert Corea. Small-pox killed
him, and says the Southern Cross, “it baffles
Reason and taxes Faith when Providence inter-
feres thus to spoil a good work.”
The N.S.W. Foreign-trade crowd, it is
said, have talked of sending boy politician “ Joe ”
Lesina against Crick for West Macquarie. The
Foreign-traders, deluded by their own newspapers,
are under the impression that, like their “Joe,’
the clever Crick is made of mere jaw, and that the
case is one to be remedied on the similia simihh'us
principle."
Gilbert Parker Avrites his Indian ex peri
ences in the S.M. Herald. He visited, in Ceylon,
Arabi Pasha, in whose plainly-furnished sitting-
room were portraits of Queen Victoria and Lydia
Von Finkelstein. He describes Arabi as a quiet
figure in a long mantle and with placid, folded
hands. Determination, command, and steady
purpose were written on his lethargic but kindly
face.


DOCTORS RECOMMEND IT.
Medical men in Paris advise “ Warm Alcoholic” drinks as a
precaution against the Influenza epidemic. The celebrated
“ Wolfe's Schnapps ” in WARM water has been found a certain
preventive.
He Knew the Law.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
The Watergreen “push” were by no means
larrikins. Most of the young fellows who be-
longed to it were of respectable families and all
were in billets more or less genteel. Some of
them were in Government offices, several in ware-
houses, several were with their fathers helping
them in business, and one, the most celebrated of
all, was Tommy Stout, who was, and had been,
for several years a lawyer’s clerk. Tommy was
the ultimate authority by whom all arguments
having a legal construction were decided, and
from whose dictum there was no appeal.
* * *
The “ push ” met every evening at a local
tobacconist and hairdresser’s, and many were the
interesting discussions and many the knotty points
solved in that little back-room behind the shop.
Sport was, of course, the chief topic of conversa-
tion, but when the chances of Abercorn or Car-
bine, or Charley Samuels, or Peter Jackson pro-
voked no interest, someone would possibly relate
his latest amorous experience or start a discussion
on Freeti ade or Protection or on some other sub-
ject engaging public attention. When legal mat-
ters came up for review there was, when Mr.
Stout was present, no discussion properly so-called
but rather a desultory exchange of opinions by the
lay-members until the legal gentleman gave his
decision, when the matter ended. Some most in-
teresting evenings were spent in listening to
Tommy’s narration of what Salomons said to Win-
deyer and how Podmore took a point which
knocked the other side to pieces,
* * *
The members of the “ push ” were for the
most part on excellent terms one with the other,
the only exception to the rule was in the case or
Johnny Smart. This young gentleman was not
popular, or rather never contrived to become in-
timate with the rest of the fellows —perhaps it
was because he was only a half-hearted partaker
in their vices, and, if the truth be told, in their
virtues, too. It was he who chiefly started the
legal arguments which Stout was called upon to
determine, and it was curious how persistently
Johnny kept the discussion to the topic which he
introduced.
# * *
One of Mr. Smart’s favourite subjects was
the liability of the receiver for trust-moneys placed
in his charge. It was afterwards noted how
eagerly Smart listened to Tommy Stout’s oracular
utterances on this question. Nothing used to
give the legal luminary greater pleasure than the
recital of the various cases which happened in our
office, as Tommy used to call it. ’Twas on one of
these legal nights that a very interesting circum-
stance happened, which affected Stout’s authority
as a lawyer. Smart had propounded a question
as to the liability of a treasurer of a friendly
society for moneys entrusted to his care. He put
his ease thus: Suppose the treasurer of a lodge
was carrying away from the monthly meeting a
large sum-of money, and suppose likewise that he
was assaulted and robbed of the money, would he
be compelled to make it good ? The company
decided that he was responsible. Suppose the
robber was a member of the society, would the
treasurer still be responsible? Most of the “ push ”
were of opinion that he was responsible, evenin
that case; there were, however, dissidents from
the general view. Suppose the money was taken
from the treasurer before the meeting at which
the money was received had closed —what then?
In this case most of the members held to the view
that the treasurer was not responsible.
#■ # *
Tommy Stout up to this point had taken
no part in the discussion, and when every one had
expressed an opinion, he delivered himself in true
judicial style thus : “Any fool ought to know the
law about friendly societies, it has been settled so
clearly. Thereare two things to bodetermined, first,
was the person from whom tiie money was taken an
officer of the society ? and, secondly, was it at the
time in his sole charge? To be considered in the
sole charge of the person who received the money
he must have previously given for it a formal receipt
or something equivalent thereto. But this is not
all, the receiver must be an officer of the society,
and to be an officer he must be in receipt of pay—
it is immaterial what the pay may be —the
responsibility is no greater for five pounds a week
than for five pence.” This was the law according
to Tommy Stout. As we have said, it was usua
for discussion to cease when Tommy’s opinion was
known. Not so on this occasion. Round the
barber’s-chair the argument waxed loud and
warm. In vain did Tommy point to the well-
known ease in Brisbane of the Manchester Unity
against Warwick, which had failed ; and of the
Free Gardeners against FitzMortimore, of Sand-
hurst, which had also broken down the common
sense of the company was against him.
* * #
Tommy Stout s knowledge of the law was
chiefly obtained from discussing matters with
other office-lads of the same standing as himself
and from the casual observations of his master.
On the day following the discussion just narrated,
Tommy consulted all the legal luminaries within
reach, as to the law regarding embezzlement,
and was, as he expected, fortified in the opinions
he had given utterance to. It was, therefore,
with no little sarcasm that he met the “ push ” in
the evening. “Of course,” said he, “I know
nothing about the matter —you fellows were bred
to the law and could express an opinion with
authority. I spoke to the Attorney-General
about the point (which was as easy a lie as any
other) and he says you must be a lot of dashed
fools not to know more than you do. But I was
forgetting : the Attorney-General may be making
a mistake —Johnny Smart here ought to know
quite as much about the matter.”. And in this
fashion Tommy Stout went on until all the sceptics
were ashamed of their ignorance, and the law in
regard to friendly societies was well known
throughout Watergreen.
* * *
It happened that the district contained
several flourishing benefit societies, mostly sup-
ported by trades-peoples, and to one of these, the
Native Rose Lodge of the Progressive Order of
Independents, Mr. Johnny Smart belonged. He
had been a member for about twelve months
during the last six of which he had held severaj
minor offices, such as check-clerk and auditor
which he had filled very creditably, having been
the means of introducing important reforms in the
method of receiving moneys at lodge-meetings,
and, as auditor, had detected several irregularities
in the secretary’s accounts. At the subsequent
annual meeting he played a conspicuous part, and
as lie was notoriously superior to the majority
of the members they gladly elected him as trea-
surer. It was usual in the Native Rose Lodge
to hold a meeting a month after the annual
elections, for the purpose of formally installing
the new officers, determining their remuneration
and receiving a report from them as to the
state of the lodge. These proceedings were
very unusual amongst benefit societies and had
been introduced into the lodge by a German
who had learnt them in the Fatherland. This,
however, forms no part of our narrative. The
meeting was very stormy, the new secretary com-
plained very bitterly of his predecessor, and the
treasurer was also emphatic in his remarks upon
the state of the books. Both officers declared their
strong determination of thoroughly reforming the
conduct of their offices. When the question of
remuneration came up for discussion, one of the
members was so carried away by his admiration
for the secretary that he suggested his honorarium
should be fixed at twenty pounds, instead of
fifteen which had been paid to his predecessor. The
secretary, however, with great public spirit,
moved that it be fixed at ten pounds, and the
treasurer, fired by his example, moved that his
own salary be fixed at nil. Such disinterested-
ness won all hearts, and the remuneration was de-
termined accordingly.
* * *
The new brooms swept very clean. The
affairs of the Native Rose Lodge were managed in
a style utterly unlike the former slipshod method.
By the rules of the society the treasurer was
allowed to keep £250 at current account, all over
“BOOLETEEN, SIR; BOOLETEEN?"
“NAW, CAWN’T READ!”
“WELL, BUY ONE AND LEARN.”
that sum was to be lodged in the Savings Bank to
the credit of the trustees. The sum in the
treasurer’s hands was, as Mr. J. Smart had
pointed out at the annual meeting, much larger
than was necessary, and he acted accordingly, for
one morning lie disappeared and took the current
account of £250 with him. Johnny had chosen a
very good time to levant, there was no one on the
stewards’ lists and the lodge did not meet for ten
days. Before his absence was discovered he had
reached Broken-hill.
* * *
The days lengthened into weeks and the
weeks to months and no tidings reached Water-
green of the defaulter. His description was
given in great detail in the Gazette, but no one
recognised him. At Broken-hill Johnny, under
the name of Talbot, made money, by speculating
in shares of mines along the main lode, and with
him to make money wa,s_to keep it. He felt per-
fectly secure in his position. He had assumed the
office of treasurer of the Native Rose Lodge with
the fixed intention of appropriating all the money
he could lay hands on, provided, of course, he
could hold office without salary. We have seen
how the law, according to Tommy Lout, laid
down the principle that where there w.i. no com-
pensation there could be no crime. It was on this
advice that he had acted. As we have said,
Johnny had made money and was in a position to
return the £250 that he had borrowed After
much consideration he determined to do this. Lie
therefore remitted the money to an old friend, who
repaid it to the Native Rose Lodge, much indeed
to their surprise and satisfaction.
* * *
Au exile, as Horace tells us, cannot escape
himself. Johnny Smart was no exception. Ab-
sence from Sydney was, to him, unbearable, and,
having repaid the lodge the money he borrowed,
he was satisfied that he could return in peace.
Almost the first person he met was Johnny
Stout, who, under ordinary _ circumstances,
would have out him, but, being a lawyers
clerk, he admired ’cuteness, and he considered
Johnny a very cunning dog—first to get elected
treasurer, then to have the office made honorary,
and lastly to appropriate the funds. _ There was
the true legal ring about the affair which specially
pleased his perception. It was speedily known in
Watergreen that Johnny had returned, and that
worthy had hardly had time to commence relating
his experiences to his mother and sister when a
gentleman of the force arrived with a warrant.
Johnny was, of course, surprised, but by no
means frightened. He knew the law, and ex-
plained to the constable that he was making a
mistake, a very grave mistake, which might cost
him dearly. Constables are used to this sort of
talk, and advised him to say nothing more
until he got to the watchhouse. When subjected
to the usual cross-examination at the station
Johnny admitted borrowing the money, but still
insisted on his not being criminally liable. Ihe
police only smiled.
# * *
Next day he saw his lawyer —Tommy
Stout’s master. This worthy, like many others
of his profession, was as ignorant as they make
them, nevertheless he sustained Johnny’s view of
the law and put his case before the magistrate,
who, however, refused an acquittal, and sent the
matter on to the Criminal Court, bail being_ re-
fused, as Johnny was an absconder. In due time
his case came on, and without a moment’s hesita-
tion the jury found him guilty, and the judge sent
him up for three years—which involved ninemonths’
“solitary” in Berrima prison. While in gaol before
trial Johnny came to the conclusion that he was a
fool for returning to Sydney, and when the judge
passed sentence he further concluded that the law,
as known to lawyers’ clerks, is not necessarily
that administered by judges.
HENRY SIEBEL.
THE GEORGE-TRENWITH TOURNEY.
Henry George (loq.):
Downtrodden Gumsucker! you’ve gotten Pro-
tection ;
How my heart bleeds for you ; truth is eternal;
Customs increase the cost of all living
Unto the pore man.
Trade that is natural never should be dammed up,
Damming it, restricting it surely must damn it;
Buy in the cheapest, sell in the dearest
Market—’s my motto.
Tell me, poor devil! where you most feel it ?
Is it in breadstuffs, swizzle, or coffee ?
Or in your duds, mate ? Or must you pay through
the
Nose for your bacca ?
Have you soup-kitchens? The workhouse? Re-
lief works?
Toil you long hours from cockcrow to midnight ?
Die you as pauper ? Say, are you insolvent ?
Tell me your story.
Then with (loq.):
Story ? God bless you, I ain’t none to tell you.
Eight hours is my day and ten bob is my wages ;
I’m saving up money and buying allotments —
Mainly through Protection.
Dear Bulletin, — A certain well knov. ;i
Australian-Yankee firm of book-tiend and light
ning-rod men had an Irish work of the - mo l
violently Tipperary tendencies (bound in gm i
and gold) for sale, and in order to dispose of ij
quickly, they engaged a canvasser, whose principal
recommendations were a rich Connemara brogu t
and a loudly-avowed sympathy with the content i
of the book. He proved a howling success and
traded-off thousands of copies in no time. De-
lighted with his performance on this occasion the
firm conceived the idea that as the Orangemen > f
a certain district were then in a state of excite-
ment bordering on delirium, owing to the lectures
of “ The Escaped Nun ” this would be the very
time to dispose of some cheap German < leograph
relating to “ The Battle of the Boyne ” a id Dutch
Billy. They consulted their man as to b s willing-
ness to undertake the mission. He ;ently re-
minded them that as he had only justle'; off being
a “ Dynamiter,” “Fenian,” and so on,' is nervous
system would suffer a violent shock if re started
off as a rabid Orangeman right away vs thouttime
for meditation and study. “ You are in Orange-
man, of course!” said they. “You know very
well O’im not,” was the reply. “ Then you must
get made one at once, and if you do not know a
friend to initiate you I will get yori made myself.
I’ve often had to do it before,” said the boss—a
prom nent disciple of the Cardinal and an orna-
ment of the Land League. In order to promote
business the firm were equally ready to give intro-
ductions to Cardinal Moran, Bishop Barry, or
Pastor Allen. The delightfully elastic principles
of the average book-fiend are illustrated by the
foregoing a perfectly true bill. Jeremiah
O’Flaherty.
A ci-devant bank-clerk, who occasionally
spoils a ream of paper by contributions to solicitor
Davis’ Sydney Quarterly Magazine, had the
temerity the other day to sue the institution which
formerly paid him an unhandsome honorarium to
put the screw on poor devils of selectors and to
liquor up (at his own expense) the big squatters
who could afford to run a credit-balance, for £7OO
damage alleged to have been sustained by enforced
residence in unhealthy localities. Putting out of
sight altogether the consideration that as a bank-
ing corporation is necessarily without bowels of
compassion, it doesn’t appear to have occurred to
plaintiff that, under no circumstances, could
the physique of a bank-official of a standing subor-
dinate to a general manager be valuated at a
tenth part of the amount. So long as the
“genteel” system of education pursued in Aus-
tralia is carefully designed to produce 100 certain
applicants for every possible bank vacancy, so long
will boards of directors and general managers
send their employes to insanitary holes where
the only hope of escaping typhoid is to go in
assiduously for an attack of the jim-jams.
One Western branch bank has had three account-
ants in 18 months. Each had typhoid, one dying
therefrom, and the present occupant of the billet
has applied for removal as he fears he is sickening.
The location of the bank-building over a filled-in
cesspool—the site being chosen on the ground of
economy—explains the liability of the young
fellows to the fever. This has been represented
to the management several times, but still the
younkers are sent up—and go down. You see a
vacancy in the ranks of the juniors frequently
enables a manager or director to oblige a share-
holder by giving the appointment to the share-
holder’s son or nominee. Anyhow, bank-clerks’
flesh and blood is cheap—about as cheap as an
East End tailor’s.
Another Great Win!
AN INVALID FOR 12 YEARS.
Mrs. Fanny Dent, wife of a gentleman em-
ployed in the Lambton Collieries, kindly allows
us to publish the following facts of her interesting
case and wonderful recovery, which we gather
from her correspondence, and which we shall he
glad to allow anyone to peruse who wishes to do
so.
Mrs. Dent had been in a state of extreme
debility for twelve years, frequently quite un-
able to do any work, the lightest kind causing
great fatigue, with severe pains in the limbs, back
and left side. So severe was the pain that she
would have to sit or lie down frequently. Walk-
ing exercise was very trying and she could only
walk very slowly. She had long seen Clements
Tonic advertised, but like many more people
her husband was prejudiced against “ patent
medicines,” but (now we use her own words) “ I
knew some one who had tried Clements Tonic,
and I decided to get a bottle on the quiet and say
nothing about it if it did me no good. The effect
I thought something wonderful. I felt better
after the first dose, and by the time I had taken
half a bottle I was a different woman. My
husband, friends and neighbours soon noticed the
change in me, and they could not make it out.
I had to tell the truth that it was Clements Tonic
that was making me strong, I could not keep the
secret, I was only too glad to give the credit to
Clements Tonic. After finishing the bottle,
work was no trouble to me, but rather a pleasure,
and after doing a heavy day’s washing I could go for
a walk instead of having to go to bed, as always
happened before taking Clements Tonic. One
of my neighbours said to me last week, ‘ Why,
Mrs. Dent, you are doing wonders this week, how
is it you are so strong now. She knew I had done
more that week than I had been able to do in 12
YEARS before (she had known me this time for I
am an old resident of this locality, having lived
here for 15 years.) I replied, ‘Yes, I feel a
wonder to myself, so I’ll tell you the secret, 1
have been taking Clements Tonic, and I cannot
tell you the benefit I have derived from it. You
know what my sufferings have been and now 1
have a genuine taste of good health.’”
Mrs. Dent wrote us those particulars of her
remarkable cure in March. She wisely, however,
decided to continue the medicine to “clinch the
cure ” as it were. Some time afterwards she
wrote as follows
Waratah Commonage, N.S.W-
Dear Sir,—-It is with great pleasure that I pen these te
lines. I have been as you know a great sufferer tro
weakness and debility for years. I was under sever
doctors, but they never did any good. I despaired oj ev
beinq better , but as I stated in my last letter J sa
Clements Tonic advertised. 1 tried a bottle and its ct
was something wonderful. I felt better almost
mediately, and was a new woman after finishing ttie
bottle. Before taking Clements Tonic it was a gru
trouble even to do a little house-work, but afterwa _
my work was a pleasure and my friends and neigh)
were surprised at the change in me. I cannot say
much in praise of it, and can only gratefully descri J
case and strongly advise all who suffer from weak es
backache, pain in the side, ringing noises in the ears
shortness of breath to take Clements Tonic. I feel si
it will do them ns much good as it has done me.
gratefully, FANNY DKNT. ..
Full particulars and endorsements on aPP 1 '
cation to F. M. Clements, Newtown, IS.&. >
at Melbourne, Ceorge and George :atAc e « •
F. 11. Faulding and Co.; at Wellington (, • -g
Kempthorne, Prosser and Co. ; at Hoba ■
Launceston, L. Fairfhorne and Sons,
dealers everywhere.


d? Celebr
Hit
M
SHEWED
ssa
w|
/»
iUROR*, iND.p
'Mil ft
| jScvfg F. Wheeler & C?^B^Ha4-
BUGGIES, BUCKBOARDS,
—AND—
-v i c t o n. a: s,
At MANUFACTURERS’ PRICES.
Send for Catalogues and Prices to
THE F. B. WHBELEI! CO.,
265 Clarence Street, SYDNEY,
Personal Items.
Mrs. Langtry, it is rumoured, has been
re-united to her forgiving hubby.
Horn, the S.A. Silver King, is now called
“ Tinore ” after his pal, Kintore.
George Francis Train intends to eclipse
Nellie Bly by girdling the earth in 60 days.
Mary Anderson’s prospective husband,
Navarro, is described as “beautiful and rich.”
Sam. Griffith is an agnostic and goes
irreligiously to church every Sunday morning.
Mrs. Campbell-Praed (Mips Murray-Prior,
of Queensland), has written off 14 novels in 10
years.
At the time of his death David Buchanan
was engaged on biographical notices of N.S.W.
men of our time.
Only one saying of Lord Normanby’s sur-
vives in Melbourne. This: “Melbourne is the
city of town-halls.”
For the first time in its history, a licensed
retail liquor-seller is a member of the nominee
Legislative Council of N.S.W,
Mr. H. E. Cohen, N.S.W. ex-Minister for
Justice and barrister-at-law, commenced life as a
draper in William-street, Bathurst.
Judging from what we read in the papers,
the son of a veteran Sydney editor has just been
apprenticed to the butchering business.
Braddon, Agent-General for Tasmania,
has never read one of his sister’s novels. For an
Agent-General he has a refined literary palate.
Sir Binjie Binjie has been wandering
about Sydney lately like a motherless foal. ,-v
Mayor hath little honour save in disown country.
Lord Hopetoun is just now being be-
slavered with Scotch-Australian grovel because
he took off his hat to a Portland Presbyterian
church.
“Keilambete” Thomson started colonial
life as a schoolmaster in Hobart Town in 1829.
Breeding prize oxen paid him better than training
prize scholars.
It was the Duke of Argyll, in his article
on “ Progress and Poverty’’ in the Nineteenth
Century, who first named Henry George “The
Prophet of San Francisco.”
“ Lady Parkes of a son !” Papa is only
75, and not long ago boasted in public that be
came of a race of men to whom children were
born even when they were 120 years old.
Lady Dunlo, of prospective divorce-court
celebrity, is just now playing in a burlesque called
“Venus” round the English provinces. Her
ladyship is appropriately cast for the Goddess of
Love.
One of the most successful practitioners in
surgery and medicine, pecuniarily and otherwise,
in an inland N.S.W. town, is a man who in early
life followed the useful occupation of a butcher, in
Victoria.
A unique and precious memorial of Brown-
ing is a phonogram of his voice. Mr. Browning
once spoke into a phonograph for Colonel
Gouraud, of London, who has carefully treasured
the speech.
It is not true, as has been alleged, that
Gov. Carington travels to the theatres as a dead-
head. The Bulletin happens to know that to
one Sydney theatre ho always sends five guineas
whenever he uses his box.
Sir James Lee Steere has arrived in Perth
from the Federal Conference. He says Parkes is
in his dotage and is as insufferably vain as ever,
Steere has a considerable belief in himself also,
but is pretty level-headed.
Lord Carington says Sir Alfred Stephen is
the best colonist N.S.W. has ever seen. And of
course the ancient Alfred responds that Gov. C.
is the best Governor N.S. Wales has ever seen—
except possibly Gov. Darling.
Mrs. Lynn Linton’s “ About Ireland ” is
a recantation of her former belief in Home Rule,
She asserts that the peasantry have earwigged the
Gladstonians, and we feel sure that the Irish land-
lords have earwigged Mrs. Lynn Linton.
The S.A. Government has named a new
township “Bonython,” after the editor of the
local Advertiser. The Victorian Government
intend to proclaim their next new town “Eitchett,”
after the reverend boss of the local Daily Tele-
graph,
Leigh Hunt and his brother were sen-
tenced to two years’ gaol, and served their time, for
describing the Prince Regent as “ a fat Adonis of
fifty.” The Bulletin now begs to assert that
Albert Edward of Wales is a fat Adonis of fifty.
Come along with our two years!
The Bulletin hereby gives notice that
whenever occasion shall hereafter unfortunately
arise for reference to be made in its columns unto
the man Stanley of Congo notoriety, he will be
mentioned as “Exploiter Stanley,” and not as
“ Explorer Stanley ” any more.
Innamincka, a pretty and musically-named
township of S.A., will henceforth be known as
“Hopetoun,” thanks to Governor Kintore. The
next thing we shall hear of will be “Beerthirst ”
or “ Dunloville,” named after these respected
members of the British aristocracy.
Benzon’s ancestral cognomen was Schle-
singer and his blood is distinctly Hebraic. It
seems incredible that when the miserable, brain-
less Juggins “ went to the Jews ” he was only re-
turning to the people from whom he sprang.
What a disgrace to the ancient race !
Stanley, it is cabled, will become a
naturalised British subject and be decorated by
Queen Victoria. At present Stanley (who was
born in Wales, and was therefore originally a
British subject) is a naturalised American citizen.
Stanley is the Spofforth of Exploration.
Lucas, the best-known Melbourne account-
ant, died lately. He got mashed up in the first
Windsor railway accident, and had hardly been
coopered when he was mashed up again in the
second. Though of delicate constitution he got
over both, and fingered the legal damages.
At the general election of 1887 the late
David Buchanan was not a candidate. When
asked why, Davie said he had three heavy cases of
cattle and sheep stealing at Bingera, with 150
guineas on each brief, “ Which is a dommed sight
better than tramping the country electioneering. ”
The King of Portugal is about 4ft. shorter
than his spouse, more or less. When they are
photographed together, the Queen sits down and
his Majesty perches himself on a footstool at the
back of her bustle. By such simple devices are
nations taught to reverence their anointed of the
Lord.
When Wolfe Flanagan, author of “ Par-
nellism and Crime,” was put up at London
Athenaeum, notwithstanding an enormous beat-np
of the Unionist members, he was unmercifully
“pilled,” by being awarded 44 black-balls as
against 250 white. One in ten was sufficient to
exclude.
Mr. Brodribh, the new owner of the race-
horse Titan (at £4830), is son of Kenrick Edmund
Brodribb, an old-time Melbourne solicitor (Brod-
ribb, Crisp, and Lewi ), who once represent- d St.
Kilda in the Legislative Assembly, and was
known—from his lady-like habits and appearance
—as “ Kitty ” Brodri bb.
Robert i uchauau has been writing to the
Times re the inhumanity of enclosed rabbit-
coursing at Salford, where a hundred of the
vermin were “ maimed and worried ” by timers.
If the poet-dramatist wants to excite sympathy
for the poor, inoffensive bunnies be should come
over to Australia. The thought of worrying rab-
bits brings tears to a squatter’s eyes.
Dr. Nicholas Donnelly, auxiliary R.O.
Bishop of Dublin, has not yet left Australia. It
is an open secret that men of his politics {“ the
Castle ”) are not wanted in Ireland just now, and
that employment is sought for him in Australia,
probably as assistant to Archbishop Carr, of Mel-
bourne. As there are no Castle politicians among
the Australian Irish, the Donnelly had better
clear out.
HE LIKED IT HOT.
JACK: “THAT’S GOOD GROG, BILL; ALWAYS GOOD WHEN YER SEE
THAT KIND’R OILY STUFF IN IT.”
BILL: “I WOULDN’T GIVE A DARN FOR IT. I LIKE IT WHEN WHAT
DROPS OFF YER BEARD MAKES BROWN HOLES IN THE FROST
OF YER SHIRT.”
David Buchanan was once pleading a sheep-
stealer’s cause in a far-away back-blocks Quarter
Sessions Court before Judge Docker, and was
anxious to get in a bit of evidence which the
judge was disinclined to admit. “Your honor,
I’ve been at the Bar for many years, and do you
think I’m a fool?” “That,” snuffied Judge
Docker, “that, Mr. Buchanan, is a question of
fact which I will leave the jury to decide !”
“ Lord Lothian’s health requires a change
of climate, so I shall not be surprised if the report
that he is to succeed Lord Carington as Governor
of New South Wales turns out to be correct.”
Thus “Atlas.” It’s nearly always the way.
Some of them have bad health and are sent to the
asylum. Others who are not bad enough for the
asylum or for the Hospital for Rickets, are pro-
vided with Austi alian billets of £lO,OOO a year.
The story of the Maungatapu (holy moun-
tain) murders in New Zealand has been pic-
turesquely retold by the accomplished Edward
Wakefield in the Scotsman of February Btb. If
the narrative is to be relied on, the gentle Edward
hirmelf was in “ imminent danger ” of losing the
number of his mess at the hands of the murderers,
but those who know the writer are aware that he
is (journalistically) an adept at blending fact with
fiction.
Old “Dick” Ireland, Q.C., had a habit,
when addressing a jury, of pushing his spectacles
up on his forehead. One day, in the heat of an
argument, he pushed them right up on his head,
and when next he wanted them he felt in vain
over his forehead, “ I have a case in point, gen-
tlemen,” he said, “if I could only find my glasses
to read it to you.” “Old Moley,” who presided,
chipped in: “You’ll find them, Mr. Ireland,
where you should keep your law— at the top of
your head !”
An article from a Melbourne paper, on
Charles Whitehead, is re-published as a pamphlet,
and excites notice in London literary circles, on
account of original facts about this poor genius,
who died in Melbourne. He wrote the novel of
“Richard Savage,” the play of “The Cavalier,”
etc. For a fuller account of his life see the book
named “A Forgotten Genius,” a monograph by,
if our memory serves, Hall Caine. It also con-
tains extracts from his works.
The big insolvency of David Munro, for a
quarter of a million, excites sympathy in Mel-
bourne, for he is the man who furnished the city
with that magnificent Prince’s Bridge, and has
done so many other great public works well and
faithfully. A company tried to take over his
business, as contractor, but botched it, while he
himself has gone crooked over the land-boom.
Munro is not in the pious swim.
Talking of brothers of great authors, the
most extraordinary ever known about Australia
was Douglas Jerrold’s brother, a perfect realisation
of Wayzgoose, the Wandering Comp. Jerrold’s
brother would turn up at some bush newspaper-
office, in a ragged shirt, well-worn corduroys, old
cabbage-tree hat, and Rip Van Winkleishhair and
beard. He would say he wanted work. “ What
work?” “Oh, writing leaders, paragraphs, re-
porting, type - setting, canvassing anything. ”
Then he would do a little work really well, but
soon be off again on the wallaby.
Baronet Campbell, of W.A., now in Lon-
don as a delegate, is said to be the rightful heir to
the Rutherford peerage. r i he baronet is, however,
sensible. He agrees with the “bai bart.” in
“ Ruddigore,” who sings ;
Allow me to <flve you a word of advice,
The title’s uncommonly dear at the price.
He therefore does net bother about the peerage,
and endeavours to keep up his present dignity as
well as he can on about £5OO a year. In addition
to his dignity, by the way, he has to keep a large
family.
A certain judge in an out-of-the-way Aus-
tralian colony, who possesses a ready and almost
savage wit, saw coming down the street one day a
certain military officer, with whom were a man
who hid been tried for the murder of an aboriginal
and a doctor who had inadvertently and with fatal
results administered to a patient a poisonous
lotion in lieu of a simple medicine. The oddness of
the combination struck the judge, who, diving his
bands into his trousers pockets more suo,, paused
before the trio, and exclaimed : “ From battle,
murder, and sudden death, gcod Lord deliver
us !” Then he marched on.
Queen Victoria’s antipathy to Canon
Liddon arises more from personal than political
reasons. Preaching some ago by request in
St. George’s Chapel, in the middle of his sermon,
sinking the courtier in the priest, and in uncon-
scious imitation of the old French Court chaplains,
Canon I'iflaon suddenly turned towards the Royal
pew, and personally, and very solemnly, addressed
her Majesty, “ And for yon, Madam,” &c., &c.
The Queen was furious ; as soon as the service was
over she sent fir Gerald Wellesley, the then Dear,
and said to him, with a face full of passion, and in
a voice trembling with rage : “ Air. Dean, never
let that man preach here again ! ’ .
Howitt, the explorer, of Burke and Wills
fame, has been lecturing in Melbourne on the
affair. It strikes us that h’s lecture would bear a
good deal of repetition ere he is ga> hered to his
fathers, 30 years having elapsed since the mighty
events in which he acted a part. He censures
Burke, and yet more the men who appointed
Burke, who was quite reckless in pushing across
the Continent to beat ALDonall Stuart, who raced
him from Adelaide, and got to Carpentaria a
lb tie later; but then Stuart, the practised ex-
plorer, brought his expedition back safely. We
have referred to Burke’s desperate passion for
Julia Mathews, which is said to have inspired his
resolve to do or die. Howitt mentions one of
the most ingenious things we have ever heard of.
Some carrier-pigeons were carried on Burke s
camels, but wore their tails off to the stumps.
Wild pigeons were shot and their tails fastened
on to the carrier-pigeons, which managed to fly in
a way with them. What is he giving us ?
One of the men who helped surly old Sam
Bennett to build up the Town and Country
Journal was “ Old ” Wilkes, as he was familiarly
known amongst press-men, whose weekly column,
“ The Flaneur,” was far and away the most read-
able item in the then new paper. When Bennett
decided to put the second story on the Pitt-street
office he consulted Wilkes as to the coat-of-arms
which should adorn the front of the building.
Wilkes suggested the Warwick arms as suitable.
Sam didn’t for the moment remember what the
Warwick arms were, and Wilkes enlightened him.
“Why, ‘a bear and ragged staff’ to be sure.”
Wilkes was “his own enemy.” He went one day
to the cashier (a new hand) and borrowed half-a-
crown and went out. Hour after hour passed
over and Wilkes did not return. Quoth Sam:
“ Has any one seen Mr. Wilkes?” No one had
seen Mr. Wilkes. “ Did any one lend him money
this morning?” “Yes, sir! I gave him half
a-crown,” reported the cashier. “Humph!”
growled Sam, “I’ll have to do the work myself
to-day—never again give him money till Friday
night.”
POLITICAL POINTS
Playford makes no secret of his political
dislike for “ Froggy ” Parkes.
Birks, the Single-tax candidate for Port
Adelaide, S. A., elections, polled 61 votes only.
Hon. A. Catt is the probable new Speaker
of the S.A. Parliament. Ward, Chairman of
Committees, has been rejected by his constituents.
It is stated in Adelaide political circles
that Sir John Bray will join Tom Playford, and
that if this occurs Kingston will join the Cock-
burn Ministry.
London Standard, which persistently
throws cold water upon Australian loans, is not
inaptly described as “an effete contemporary”
by one of the “ home ” financial papers.
To show how things go in Tasmania, it
may be mentioned that the Launceston Daily
Telegraph (Protectionist), started about seven
years ago by Mr. T. Brickhill, has now by far the
largest circulation in the island.
J. P. T, Caulfield has wagered £6O that
Sydney Burdekin, M.P., the millionaire Mayor of
Sydney, and one of the largest landowners in
N.S.W., will become a Sinarle-taxer before becom-
ing a Protectionist. Ere Burdekin is a Georgite
Caulfield will be an angel.
The idea of a Russian Grand Duke being
addicted to writing seditious poetry is too funny
for anything. We shall expect to hear soon that
the Duke of Westminster publishes pamphlets on
the iniquity of private ownership in land, and the
evils attaching to the accumulation of unearned
inclement.
The display of Foreign-trade leaflets in a,
please-take-one manner in the N.S.W. Govern-
ment offices affords another example of the man-
ner in which the crowd in power can, if unscru-
lous and cheeky enough, use the country’s pro-
perty and premises to boost up party and soft-
goods enterprise.
Tom Playford, ex-Premier of S.A., re-
cently spread himself on Federation ;
First he would ask, “Is Federation desirable?” Yes,
unmistakably it is. (Cheers.) It was desirable because
we might then have free trade between the colonies—
(cheers) with protection against the outside world—
(cheers) -precisely as they had in the United States and
Canada. (Cheers.)
Trenwith has got a gold-watch testimonial
from Melbourne Trades Hall for jumping on and
spiffiicating George. This was because, “Although
a member of Parliament he did not possess a gold
watch.” Which reminds us of the immortal lecture
on the watch-question delivered by Sergeant
Galoosely to his subordinate Constable Sin nannick.
The Illawarra Protection League has
chosen John Young, late Mayor of Sydney, and
John Richards, a district man, as its candidates at
next general election. Air. Richards is new to
politics, and is said to be a hard-headed and
straight man. The Foreign-trade flag-bearer wdl,
it is said, be J. P. T. Caulfield, who has lately
nestled in the bosom of Abraham Calico Jimmy.
Good for a social democrat’s bile is the last
file of London Queen, with portraits of six im-
pudent, flaunting beauties of Victoria’s Court in
their Buckingham Palace drawing-room pea-
cockery, the mere tails of which would each keep
a starving family for pwo years. Do it some
more, even to the last straw.
The South Australian people are asking
whether Parkes really understands the meaning of
Federation. When he was interviewed by an
Argus reporter, the other day, he said that South
Australia was acting in an unneighbourly way in
trying to secure the Barrier trade. The Adelaide
people argue that they are only striving for that
which belongs to them geographically, and would
be justly theirs were Parkes’ Federation scheme
brought about.
The reports of a great coal-bed having been
struck in Kent county have set people calculating
that the existence of payable mines so near Lon-
don should bring about a reduction of eight or nine
shillings in the price of coal per ton, and revolu-
tionise the conditions of manufacturing trade
throughout England. In fact, the tide of social
distress would flow northward for a time, while
the East-end of London experienced a ghastly
mockery of a “ boom.”
Official inquiries made in connection with
the new French law giving certain advantages to
the fathers of more than seven children have re-
vealed the fact that these unfortunate parents
number only 200,000 throughout the whole of
France. There are in the country 2,000,000
childless households, 2,500,000 with an only
child, 2,300,000 with two children,- 1,500,000
wliich have three, about -1,000,000 which have
four, 550,000 which have five, and 300,000 which
have six children.
Hopetoun, speaking at Prahran, said the
paths of a Governor nowadays were pleasant, and
contrasted this with the difficulties of former
time.- But what is the explanation ? The Agent-
General, does all the political work, and the
Governor is reduced to a mere bun-worrier. His
staple is garden parties, Y.M.C. A. festivals, balls,
bazaai-s, and all that, while he writes solemn
despatches home, imagining that he is as great a
panjandrum as the Governors of the past. Hope-
tonn should sit down and suck toast-water through
a straw.


Fz/zd
M frs famjo, /tdfa u/aafaf /
cJ/rsriy rraS/zej M/faf/A*ss
/a /iai'f /to /# jjour
Aouse, a/td /h fa "fasf/fd*"
/soy rooty To rooty, q> t/~
usd's
J/Ulttdeetm fa
' rSfieaW*.
V
t
r o
*\
'-C
•a
—c\
VO
ip-
\
fa^
rfejyo<!//z s/fi/e
( ' /yederoranefe/
//fw#/?t/)/r arnffi/ffff/wtr ,
7//S fysrsf/urf/t ~ Sfu/re ti/fi. //es/fie Sen/ mage y/j/ewefif/r ///*/?/'.
Atfi Wf/YFY - Afi f Me/t //t /fie H/orofi of file /be///yje/f, S ou coxs/der fi/& a.
/ .. ' , . ■ CA/M w The F&e/-f,le/or* 9 ? r , rr v-z / -
ML- l-Ue do'- . {//? 7J Jn,;^
i Jf u/auM Atu/e J/eea /u/r/ry l/ /&"
P&jfdtas/er //finera/s do/7f/?//w ea Y~ fias/
__ yd/y6
PARKES’ LATEST BAHT.


Rob bie s & Bawbees
J B A 1
F.xeo xn TM £
pop. keti i rs<s*-
P IZ. O <v\ T m E.
FOP.C E y
j3)k.ath °^E)uTy
•the <^ h ie.p Cp . r \-s a
-r A E &R£KTEST TROUBLE
TO tv\AVO.e O l—O WE(v\B EKs
RES I G=r-N
POUtE
Dd POT
/Xnother'Boß p l e.aS E
I T H e S aCK,£T
wh rh ey Loo °
Fi fi &,J rn o y
WEAP- T 1/vO uw\ K
2C TWO o F
PantS
A Pol ice e_ a n
arduous One,,
fN Lyj b A/|u^.T£P^
CON/STARufL. AT , ' V UNF«T
FOR Oo t y
f
JS' 2 '':
s Ays IN
NO
»s. atsy • *-
• T H 1 NO, DISCOVERED
ATTE.^ 2 - th e gene t-*- a. l~
ponee HAD B E-EVA OVER TH g-rolihd
CON'S, T A B.CE VUALLY
fEU O EH. K A CAUF
ONE. IN ( G Hr


Foreign & colonial exchange bank
OF AUSTRALASIA, Limited.
Sydney—B6 King Street.
Melbourne —369 Collins Street.
London Bankers—Australian Joint Stock Bank,
No. 2 King William Street, London, E.C.
This Bank undertakes the Exchange of Money,
both International and Intercolonial, includ-
ing the Coinage of all Foreign Nations, in
addition to all usual and customary banking busi-
ness.
Deposits Received.
3 years
12 months ...
6 months ...
3 months ...
Communications to
Managing Director.”
... Sh per cent.
8" per cent.
7 per cent.
6 per cent.
be addressed to “The
D J WILSON,
Secretary.
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
The SYDNEY DEPOSIT BANK,
UO KING STREET —»0
Established 1885.
Agencies in London and throughout Australia.
Overdrafts granted against Deposit of Deeds
and all the usual banking business transacted.
The following are the liates of Interest allowec
for Fixed Deposits
3 Years 9| per cent.
12 Months 8|- per cent.
6 Months 7i per cent.
3 Months per cent.
5 per cent, allowed on tally balance of current account.
For the past Four (4) Years a Bonus of One per
Cent, has been paid in addition to the above rates.
This is the first and only Bank in the Colonies
which divides its profits with its depositors._
Communications from the country will bo
promptly attended to.
1 1 T. S. RICHARDSON,
General Manager.
H
W. H. PALING & CO M P ANY, L 1 MI T li
356 George Street, SYBMjSy,
£ rSS2?SZ£!SS' ¥&
Society
The Melbourne Morality—or Social Gimlet
—Society “are not disposed to exert themselves
much to secure Bella Ferguson’s release, because
she declined to give the name of her seducer, a
circumstance from which they drew unfavourable
conclusions.” Possibly Bella Ferguson doesn’t
want to give away anybody connected with the
Melbourne Morality Society. Who does not
remember the story of the silk-and-sealskin-clad
committee-woman who remorselessly pressed a
poor applicant for relief, with a baby in her arms,
for the name of the father? “Your husband,
mum,” at last said the victim.
# # #
Desire may fail and the grasshopper be-
come a burden, but all things are not hollow while
a man is to be found in Rockhampton (Q.) who
loves his mother-in-law, or, at least, says he does
as under, in Brisbane Courier :
In Memoriam.
In affectionate remembrance of my dear Mother-in-law,
who died at , Rockhampton, on , 18903
A light has from our household gone,
The voice we loved is stilled ;
A place is vacant in our hearts
Which never can be filled.
After two verses more of the same kind we cast
our bold, bad, unbelieving eye over the conclusion
of the advt. :
In sad, but fond and loving, affectionate remembrance
of my dear Mother-in-law, who departed this life on the
Bth April. Inserted by intended son-in-law (say) E. Willing,
ton Smith.
“ Intended son-in-law ! ” What a lot of difference
is made by three syllables !
# " * *
Sydney E. News advt.: —
tttANTED, by Widow, FRIENDSHIP of Respectable
VV Man, or otherwise, with Home. A. 8., Post
Office, Redfern.
“Friendship” is excellent; “or otherwise” is
magnificently comprehensive. Are you listening,
Alfred Bennett, Esq. ?
* * *
The young Tasmanian widow who is to be
the leading figurante in a forthcoming breach of
promise suit, is a musical composer of merit—ac-
cording to Fred. A. Parker’s standard —which
accounts either for her early widow-hood or the
breach of promise.
* * *
There is a most extraordinary article in
a late North American Review on Mormonisin,
by Mrs. Gates, a daughter of Brigham Young,
contending that Polygamy is a complete success.
She maintains that her half-century of brothers
and sisters are far above the monogamic average,
both physically and morally. Brigham Young’s
fondness for 'the babies is an awfully funny
part of the narrative, which sets forth his
peculiar and inimitable chuckle of “Tiddle-
oodle-ladle,” which nobody could imitate. He
used to ring the bell for prayers, and in would
troop ten or a dozen wives, each with a batch of
children. Mrs. Gates says a judgment will come
for beautiful Polygamy being put down. She
likes it.
* * *
At a recent ballot for a reserve recently
revoked at Dubbo (N.S.W) Land Office, there
were nineteen male and only three lady-applicants,
nevertheless the latter came out of the box first,
second and third. Where luck enters in, women
and fools are always in front.
* * *
Although five years’ gaol is said to mean
inevitable death to any Australian aboriginal, Sir
George Innes, at Dubbo, sent a blackfellbw to
seven years’ hard labour the other day. Perhaps
His Honor may yet see a way to have this sen-
tence revised—unless he considers the nigger de-
serves to die.
# * *
A Clarence River lady, who knew Tommy
Ryan and took an interest in him, happened to be
in Sydney when he arrived and waited upon him
on board the steamer. “ I hope, Tommy,’’ quoth
she, “when you come out of prison you’ll be a
good man. “No fear, missus, of them
white pfeller ever lettin’ me out again.”
* » *
The Melbourne-Adelaide express had
stopped, as usual, at Servicetown. A passenger,
walking up the platform to the refreshment-room,
passed on his way the sleeping-car, from which
the head of a South Australian magnate pro-
truded ; from that head issued, in aloud, patronis-
ing style, the query : “ What place is this, sonny?”
The individual addressed pulled up short and
looked full in the speaker’s eyes. Silence ensued
for half a minute; then the tenpenny magnate
withdrew his head out of possible harm’s way, as
the passenger replied, in a mockingly-patronising
manner : “Find out for yourself, my good man.”
That was all. Now, if you only knew what a big
man that South Australian swell is (in his own
country) it would take away your breath.
* # *
A certain Goulburn (N.S.W.) doctor has
just returned from a trip to Tasmania. The fact
is, perhaps, scarcely of moment, except to such of
the doctor’s patients who got better during his
absence, were it not that it was the only sea-trip
taken by the medico for a good many years on
which some disaster did not happen to the vessel
which carried him. He was one of the last four
to leave the Oregon when she went down in the
Atlantic ; he was on board the Austral when she
slid gently to the bottom of “ our harbour ” ; and
he has been mixed up with three other marine
catastrophes. The story goes that when discuss-
ing with his prospective bride the route for their
honeymoon journey, he proposed they should visit
New Zealand. “If you wish to go there, dear,”
said the lady, “go by all means. But I don’t go
with you!” She had heard of her swain’s
Jonahisms.
* * *
The mysterious murder of Gervaise Du-
brocca, at Sandgate, near Brisbane, contains many
strong elements of romance. Dubrooca was a man
of refinement and education, spoke four modern
languages well, and could paint and engrave on
wood. He came to this country as the representa-
tive of a large Paris house of manufacturing
jewellers, having in that capacity visited the
DUFF AND MACDUFF.
SMART SHEARER: “DINNER READY, MACDUFF?”
CHOLERIC COOK: “NO, DEENER'S NO READY, AND MY NAMES NO
MACDUFF.”
SHEARER: “MAK NO DUFF THEN—IS THAT IT?”
exhibitions of London. Philadelphia, Melbourne,
and Sydney. Finally he settled down in Rock-
hampton. Here a strange blank occurs ;he lost
all memory until he awoke after a long illness in the
hospital, a ruined man, having in some way been
robbed of everything. He left the hospital penniless,
and worked his way to Brisbane, where he settled
down in a lonely hut at Sandgate and supported
himself by basket-making. He was haunted by
one idea which pursued him through his dreams.
He supposed that he was followed by a relentless
enemy whose face he had recognised in Paris, in
Melbourne, and in Sydney, and who had wrought
his ruin at Rockhampton. He was convinced
that he and this enemy would at last meet face to
face, and the vendetta would be ended. The
murdered man was living in abject poverty, and
there appears to exist no motive for the crime.
i. # *
Lady Bertie is being educated up to the
ways of English tenants who are born into this
world that they may love the squire and his
relations. Lord B. and his bride, says the cable,
received an “ovation” on their arrival at the
ancestral home of the Berties. God bless your
lordship, and your ladyship, and there isn t a man,
woman or child upon the estate but will pray for
you both evermore, amen.” Ah, we know it off
by heart. We can see ’em all standing bare-
headed.
* # *
Little Lord Hopetoun describes Her
Gracious as “the truest sovereign, the greatest
lady, and the best woman that has ever sat on the
British throne.” It isn’t so much of a character,
even at that. We cheerfully admit that Y.R. is
a greater lady than the shady old vixen, Queen
Elizabeth —a truer sovereign than silly “Brandy
Nan ” —a better woman than “ Bloody Mary.” In
fact, we will go further than the loyal Governor
by maintaining that Her Gracious Majesty will
never be surpassed by any future queen, a pre-
diction which deserves careful consideration and
patriotic support.
« # #
Mrs. Harrison Lee, the Melbourne Mona
Caird, has got out her new book on marriage and
the social evil. It is indescribable, and can only
be summed up as a scheme for the de-carnalising of
married people ; yet Mrs. Lee is one of the fore-
most young Melbourne Evangelicals, though th
religious press dare not touch her advanced ideas
Whatever does Mr. Potter—we mean Mr. Harri-
son Lee say ?
* * *
Mayor Cohen will be the principal enter-
tertainer of Adelaide society this season. Kintore
is even worse than Robinson, and leaves the Mayor
to do the entertaining.
# # *
Roman Catholic authorities insist that the
Anglican Church will have to come round to Celi-
bate clergy, and it looks like it, with Bishop Goe
lately swearing-in three deaconesses for slum work
in Little Lonsdale-street. The Guardian, lead-
ing London Church of England paper, says the
Church will have to face the necessity of celibate
clergy, as it is impossible to send men into the
wilds with all their marriage impediments. Of
course it is the poor clergy who must practise all
the self-denial. As for the Melbourne deacon-
esses they are simply rosebuds under another name
—nuns.
# * *
Dear Bulletin, —Touching your par. the
other day as to the way in which Victorian detec-
tives advertise themselves, the same remarks
apply to Sydney. At the race-meetings for years
past a gang of—l was going to say “ respectable”
—young fellows have made the saddling-paddock
their field of action. Their game is simple : Pound
sweeps. One folds ; one draws. They invariably
draw the favourites between them. If an outsider
wins, of course they are out of it; but with three
or four favourites up their sleeve, and first, second,
and third money, they have just a bit the best of
it. Perhaps the best-known men in Sydney are
the detectives, and if one of them went in the
sweep to watch proceedings, you might wager
your existence that that pull would be fair as day-
light.—Yours, A Victim.
* #
#
Toady, Esquire, writes to the “leading”
Melbourne paper, complaining that only six men
took off their hats to Governor Hopetoun, when
he raised his, and walked through the crowd, at
the opening of the “Queen’s Bridge.”
* * *
“It is calculated that by the time the
numerous preliminaries have been completed, and
the new Bishop has reached Sydney, the diocese
will have been without its ‘ chief pastor ’ for
eighteen months. When will Australian Church*
men begin sensibly to choose their Bishops from
among their own clergy ? ” asks the W okld.
“When?” well, when the Church of England in
Australia is no longer merely the Church of
England.
* * *
It is alleged that when Lord Oarington
was enjoying his water-picnic at Bourke he ac-
tually “ helped to shunt a truck.” Send for the
M instrel Boy—
The influenza has not reached W.A., but a
very severe embezzlement-epidemic prevails in
Perth. Civic officials and mining managers arc
most severely affected at present, but the com-
plaint is very catching.
* * *
A parson is asking : Why do working-men
not go to church ? Now we want to know why
parsons don’t go to work ?
# * *
The Grosvenor Gallery collection of English
paintings, on show in Melbourne, includes some
water-colours by the- Princess Louise, bracketed
with Sir F. Leighton’s drawings as “Not for Sale.”
Just imagine if they were, what a rush ! “ That,
my dear, is a sweet little thing of the dear Princess
Louise’s, which I’ve hung up in an unostentatious
corner. She gave it to me herself,” &c. We
would back Louise against Leighton at an auction
in Toorakia.
# # #
“ Succi’s life !"’ observed The Bulletin’s
office-boy when he read about the Italian gentle-
man dragging out his existence on pain-killer and
water.
“ Canadian Independence Associations,”
specifically aiming to achieve by 1992 the severance
of the bonds which, &c., are springing up all over
the country.
Father Ignatius—a long, thin apostle,
who used to prowl about England wearing sandals,
a rope girdle, and a shaven crown —has gone to
join the other blessed saints. Many years ago he
had public discussions with Bradlaugh on Srip-
tnral matters, but as Bradlaugh didn’t seem to be-
lieve in Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob, while his
hungry opponent was continually falling back on
the published utterances of those patriarchs,
nothing resulted from the discussions except a
little gate-money. At one time Father Ignatius
had a great following among the ladies, whom he
earnestly besought to pile flowers on his gentle
mother’s grave in a Margate church-yard. He
ran a nunnery, or something, in that district, and
a ewe-lamb (with money of her own) occasionally
tripped into the fold to try what it was like.
They all came back again to the wicked world,
however. Father Ignatius dropped out of fashion,
nis scarecrow photographs disappeared from shop
windows, and folks must have forgotten he was
alive until they heard he was posted off to the
kingdom on February 14. The Cherubim pro-
bably took Father Ignatius to be a comic valen-
tine. And now, after giving Father Ignatius a
handsome obituary, we find he is still alive.
Old-fashioned Jewellery modernised to perfection. De-
signs free. Dahms and Co., King-street Arcade.
Write for plans £10 Building sites, Perth,
Western Australia. Intercolonial Investment
Company, Limited, 00 Bathurst street, Sydney.
A BOON TO HUMANITY.
’Tis food for young and food for old,
It gives new life and vital power,
There’s nothing in the market sold
Like Pemell’s patent Snow-white Flour.
We know a Baron fond of work,
Who, blessings on his pluck !
Went down by special train to Bourke
And helped to shunt a truck.
There was a fear he’d have to swim,
Like any other duck ;
That made no difference to him—
He helped to shunt a truck.
For years he hadn't done a stroke
Of graft, the noble buck ;
He hailed it as a splendid joke
To help to shunt a truck.
A change from merely standing still
And talking “ loyal” muck ;
’Twas really with a hearty will
He help to shunt a truck.
He muttered to his pretty wife :
“ Why, here’s a stroke of luck !
I’ve got a chance, upon my life,
To help to shunt a truck. ”
She answered : “ O, yon funny Bob 1”
And gave his chin a chuck ;
Whereat he went upon the job
And helped to shunt a truck.
The men of Bourke they stood around,
By such a picture struck,
And whispered with respect profound :
“ He helped to shunt a truck.”
And when it’s time in Nature’s bed
The Baron bold to tuck,
Upon his tomb shall this be sead :
“ He helped to shunt a truck.”


The
Marvellous
18s. 6d.
OPTIMUS
WATCHES
The Best, C heapest and Most Accurate Timekeepers
ever produced.
Made especially to our order by one of the leading and
most celebrated manufacturers of Watches in Switzerland,
Hid experience has shown that no watch is better than a
well-made Swiss one.
Gilt movements, jewelled in six holes, keyless (10 turns
to wind), enamel dials, crystal faces, well made, splendidly
finished, nickel cases that will wear excellently; in fact,
real good-looking, handsome little watches, ' § (I magnifi-
cent timekeepers.
Twelve months’ guarantee forwarded with every one.
Send P. 0.0. for 19s. 6d, (Is. postage), and have one
forwarded by post. If not in every way satisfactory after
a week money willingly refunded.
Only to be obtained from
FROST SHIPHAM,
Spectacle Makers, Opticians & Electricians,
474 & 537 George Street. Sydney,
Horsford’s Acid Phosphate
KECOMMENDED BY PHYSICIANS
of all schools, for the brain, nerves and stomach.
Reliable Watch Repairs. Daiims & Co., King-st. Arcade.
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
Ambidextrous men are the exception. The
nails of the right hand can be trimmed as easily
as the left, by the use of McDonald’s Nail Trimmer.
All chemists. Price one shilling.
Reliable Watch Repairs. Dahms&Co., King-st. Arcade
WHY ■YOU SHOULD USE
Scon’s Emulsion
oiOod Liver Oil wxa
hypophosphites.
It is used and endorsed by rhysi -
dans because it is the best. 1
It is Palatable as Milk.
It is three times as efficacious as plain
Ged Liver Oil.
It is far superior to all other so-called
Emulsions.
It is a perfect Emulsion, does not sepa-
rate or change.
It is wonderful as a flesh producer.
It is the best remedy for Consumption,
Scrofula, Bronchitis, Wasting Dis~
eases, Chronic Coughs and Colds.
Sold by all Chemists.
SCOTT & BOWME, New York.
Robertson’s Whisky.
£200 FH.IZ3SS.
GiVUX AWAY IN THE CGLTJNIES
as follows:
16 of £5 each, 35 £3, and 70 *l,
Pamphlets from the Agents, -A-T iT.»“X“ & CO.,
Limited, CHARLOTTE PLAGE.
SYDNEY
A Remarkable Man.
A Sketch from Life.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
In a certain New Zealand city I had occasion one
day last year to call on an. agent in a small way
of business. I did not know the man personally,
but I had noticed his advertisement in the papers
and had frequently seen his sign printed on an old
battered piece of black tin or zinc nailed outside
the staircase leading to his office. The sign read
somewhat as follows H. A. J. C. K., .loggard,
Expert, Valuator, Rent and Debt Collector, Pri-
vate Detective, Accountant in Bankruptcy, Finan-
cial and General Commission Agent.” Joggard
was not his real name, nor were the foregoing his
initials, but they will do for the purposes of the
present narrative. The office was upstairs on the
second floor of a very old wooden building which,
I was told, had been in existence for about 30
years, and which, having been long uninsured,
had escaped the accidental and, mysterious out-
breaks of fire so frequent in New Zealand proper-
ties in better repair when well covered with gal-
vanised roofing and heavy policies. The staircase
was very narrow, dilapidated and dirty, and looked
as if it had not been swept for a decade. On
reaching the office-door, which also bore his name,
initials, and list of professions, I knocked, and
being greeted with a loud and commanding
“Come !” I opened the door and walked in. The
office was a small room,with one window, grimy
with dust, cobwebs, and other old associations.
The paper on the wall was torn and hung loosely
and bulgingly from the roof and walls, the floor
was unswept and covered with a litter of papers ;
an old table and two or three chairs equally
ancient comprised the furniture of the apartment.
An elderly gentleman, bald-headed, sharp-
featured, and lynx-eyed, arose from the table at
which he had been writing and faced me—
“ Mr. Joggard?” I said, inquiringly.
“ That’s my name, sir,” he replied. “ Sit down
and tell me what I can do for you. ’
He handed me a chair, which had once been
caned and now had a piece of hardwood nailed
roughly across the damaged seat.
I sat down, introduced myself, and in a few
words explained my business. We then entered
into conversation of a general and desultory nature,
but Mr. Joggard soon arrived by a short cut at a
subject which I could see was uppermost and all-
important in his mind. That subject was himself.
“ You see before you,” he said, “although I say
it myself, a most remarkable man. Yes, I may
truly say a remarkable man. Here am I doing a
small, pettifogging, twopenny-halfpenny agency
in this one-horse place, though I possess talents,
ability, and experience sufficient ter carry on the
largest financial or commercial business in the
Antipodes. Fifty years ago my name was as
well-known oh the London Stock Exchange as
that of Rothschild, and many a large operation I
have carried out in connection with that firm.
What would you think now was the amount of the
biggest cheque I ever drew on the Bank of England
in ray time?”
“ I don’t know, of course, and should be afraid
to guess,” replied I. However, thinking I would
stagger him a bit, I added recklessly, “ Oh,
perhaps a million sterling.”
“Well, you have guessed correctly,” he said.
“That’s just the very sum. One million pounds
sterling. I can see you know a little about busi-
ness in a large way. You are the first man who
ever guessed the amount correctly in New Zealand.
When I ask some of the small wholesale people
here that question they answer, ‘ Oh, perhaps
£5OOO or £lO,OOO, or £20,000,’ but a million pounds,
sir, why it licks them to understand it. It knocks
them silly even to think about it. ”
“ Did you often have transactions like that ?” I
asked.
“Well, no, not in one cheque, of course, but my
account for some years with the Bank of England
showed a gross turn-over of fifty to a hundred
millions a year. I used to discount bills for
foreign merchants and governments. It often
happened that a quarter of a million on one
piece of paper—enough to buy up this city, sir,
stock, lock and barrel—went through my bank-
account of an afternoon, and I thought nothing of
it.”
I asked Mr. Joggard how he came to lose such
a good position in life.
“Well,” he said, “it is a long story, but the
long and the short of it is that I lost money. It
was in ’4B, the revolutionary year in Europe, and
the foreign stocks, bonds and bills in which 1 was
interested, suffered great depreciation and my
losses were heavy. I lost half-a-million of money
in a few weeks on one occasion; I had a large
family—l was fifty years of age at the time, and a
grandfather to one or two youngsters—and I
thought myself an old man.”
“ Why, bless me,” I cried, “you don’t look more
than seventy, and you tell me you were fifty in
’4B. I can scarcely believe it. That makes you
over 90 now. ”
“ Ninety-two next birthday, sir, I assure you.
As I was saying, I had a large family and I
determined to realise all I was worth in England,
pay my debts and emigrate. We landed in Nel-
son in 1850, eighteen of us all told. I was married
a second time, you understand, and I got married
for the third and last time only a year ago, ha !
ha! ha ! My descendants —children, grand ditto,
great-grand and, I believe, great-great-grand ditto,
number at the present time about 400 souls, as
near as I can reckon, and they are scattered about
all over Australasia, England, China, America and
India. Since coming to this colony I have had
every sort of experience you can think of. I have
been a farmer, innholder, auctioneer, gold-miner, a
justice of the peace, mayor of a town, chairman
of a road-board, stood for Parliament and got de-
feated because I would not flatter the mob, and
when over seventy years of age I fought side by
side with two of my grandsons in the Maori war,
under Colonel Macdonnell, who will tell you how
the two boys and myself conducted ourselves if
you like to ask him.”
“ I see you have lost two fingers from your left
hand,” I said, “ was that some of your experience
with the Maoris ? ”
“ No, not at all,” he replied, “I met with that
misfortune nearly twenty years before that —early
in the fifties. I lost three toes from my left foot
at the same time. It happened in this way. I
bought a lot of sheep down in Canterbury (I was
in Nelson then), and in driving them over the
mountains between Canterbury and Ne’sou we got
caught in a snow-storm. We were snowed up for
three weeks without food or fire—nothing but raw
mutton to eat. I made a snow-hut, and wo kept
rubbing each other with snow to keep ourselves
awake. We got away.)when the weather cleared
with a few starving sheep. We had both to go to
the hospital—-the man died some months after-
wards from the effects of the exposure, and I lost
some of my fingers and toes but otherwise was not
permanently injured.”
“ I see you call yourself an expert,” I said;
“ has that anything to do with your skill and
agility in dodging the King of Terrors ? ”
“ I call myself an expert,” he said, “ because I
know practically everything worth knowing on
the face of the earth. I can speak English, Ger-
man, French, Italian and Maori. I know more
about music and the drama than any man (living.
WHAT WOULD HAPPEN.
LADY TEACHER (in a school located in the Big Scrub, is trying to get out of some of her
youngsters the meaning of “ descend”): “NOW, LOOK HERE, MICKEY
KIRBY, IF YOU CLIMBED RIGHT UP THAT BIG GUM-TREE
AFTER A ’POSSUM-NEST AND SUDDENLY FELL OFF, WHAT
WOULD YOU DO?”
MICKEY: “PLEASE, MISS, I’D BUST MESELF.”
I can write shorthand and report the fastest
speaker that ever uttered speech. I know all
about sheep, horses, cattle, pigs ; also, how to
make butter, cheese, cure bacon, play the violin,
writ© poetry, cind I can break a liorso better than
any other man in New Zealand. My business as
an expert, however, is principally connected with
my wonderful skill in the matter of handwriting
and deciphering signatures. For instance, say
there is a case of forgery to be investigated. The
police bring all the documents to me, and 1 spot
the forgery for them at a glance. There isn’t
another man in New Zealand, or in the Southern
Hemisphere for that matter, who has had the
same experience as I have had in this line. I have
been under cross-examination for hours at a time,
but nothing could shake the evidence I had to
give. Yes, sir, and I know more law than all the
lawyers and judges of New Zealand put together,
and for this reason the lawyers here—mere boys,
most of them—hate me like poison and try to in-
terfere with my bankruptcy business. lam just
now drafting a new Bankruptcy Act for Sir Harry
Atkinson, who is an old friend of mine, although
not half my age. lam also constructing a patent
rabbit-destroyer, with a view to securing the New
South Wales bonus of £25,000. ”
At this stage >■ J his history I thought it expe-
dient to suggest an adjournment for refreshments.
He consented willingly, and skipped downstairs
as nimbly as a five-year-old. We had drinks
together—whisky —and parted. I think he was,
on the whole, the most remarkable man I ever
“ shouted ” for.
A.S.
The Man from Snowy River.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
There was movement at the station, for the word
had passed around
That the colt from old Regret had got away
And had joined the wild bush horses—he was
worth a thousand pound—
So all the cracks had gathered to the fray. _
All the tried and noted riders from the stations
near and far
Had mustered at the homestead over-night,
For the bushmen love hard-riding where the fleet
wild horses are,
And the stookhorse snuffs the battle with delight.
There was Harrison, who made his pile when
Pardon won the Cup,
The old man with his hair as white as snow,
But few could ride beside him when his blood was
fairly up—
He would go wherever horse and man could go.
And Clancy of the Overflow came down to lend a
hand —
No better rider ever held the reins;
For never horse could throw him while the saddle-
girths would stand,
He learnt to ride while droving on the plains.
And one was there, a stripling on a small and
graceful beast ; .
He was something like a racehorse undersized.
With a touch of Timor pony, three parts thorough-
bred at least,
The sort that are by mountain horsemen prized.
He was hard and tough and wiry—just the kind
that won’t say die;
There was courage in his quick, impatient
tread,
And he bore the badge of gameness in his bright
and fiery eye
And the proud and lofty carriage of his head.
But still so slight and weedy one would doubt his
power to stay,
And the old man said: “That horse will
never do
For a long and tiring gallop—lad, you’d better
stop away.
The hills are far too rough for such as you.”
So he waited sad and wistful, only Clancy stood
his friend.
“ I think we ought to let him come,” he said ;
“ I warrant he’ll be with us when he’s wanted at
the end,
For both his horse and he are mountain-bred.
“ He hails from Snowy River, up by Kosciusko’s
side,
Where the hills are twice as steep and twice as
rough—
Where a horse’s hoofs strike firelight from the
flintstones every stride.
The man that holds his own is good enough,
And the Snowy River riders on the mountains
make their home,
Where the Snowy flows those giant hills between.
I have seen full many horsemen since I first com-
menced to roam,
But never yet such riders have I seen.”
So he went; they found the horses near the big
Mimosa clump; .
They raced away towards the mountain s brow,
And the old man. gave his orders : “ Boys, go at
them from the jump ;
No use to go for fancy-riding now ;
And, Clancy, you must wheel them try and
wheel them to the right.
Ride boldly, lad, and never fear the spills,
For never yet was rider that could keep the mob
in sight
If once they gain the shelter of those hills. ”
So Clancy rode to wheel them—he was racing on
the wing
Where the best and boldest riders take their
place—
And he raced his stock-horse past them, and he
made the ranges ring
With the stockwhip as he met them face to face,
And they wavered for a moment while he swung
the dreaded lash,
But they saw their well-loved mountain full in
view, _
And they charged beneath the stockwhip with a
sharp and sudden dash,
And off into the mountain-scrub they flew.
Then fast the horsemen followed where the gorges
deep and black
Resounded to the thunder of their tread,
And the stockwhips woke the echoes and they
fiercely answered back
From cliffs and crags that beetled overhead ;
And upward, upward ever, the wild horses held
their way
Where mountain-ash and kurrajong grew wide.
And the old man muttered fiercely: “We may
bid the mob gcod-day,
No man can hold them down the other side.”
When they reached the mountain’s summit even
Clancy took a pull—
It well might make the boldest hold their breath,
The wild hop-scrub grew thickly and the hidden
ground was full
Of wombat-holes, and any slip was death ;
But the man from Snowy River let his pony have
his head,
And swung his stockwhip round and gave a
cheer,
And raced him down the mountain like a torrent
down its bed,
While the others stood and watched in very
fear.
He sent the flint-stones flying, but the pony kept
his feet; •
He cleared the fallen timber in his stride,
And the man from Snowy River never shifted in
his seat —
It was grand to see that mountain horseman
ride
Through stringy-barks and saplings on the rough
and broken ground,
Down the hillside at a racing-pace he went,
And he never drew the bridle till he landed safe
and sound
At the bottom of that terrible descent.
He was right among the horses as they climbed
the further hill,
And the watchers, on the mountain standing
mute,
Saw him ply the stockwhip fiercely —he was right
among them still
As he raced across the clearing in pursuit ;
Then they lost him for a moment where the
mountain gullies met
In the ranges—but a final glimpse reveals
On a dim and distant hillside the wild horses
racing yet
With the man from Snowy River at their heels.
••• * ' *
And he ran them single-handed till their sides
were white with foam,
He followed like a bloodhound on their track
Till they halted, cowed and beaten—then he
turned their heads for home,
And alone and unassisted brought them back ;
And his hardy mountain pony—he could scarcely
raise a trot —
He was blood from hip to shoulder from the
spur,
But his pluck was still undaunted and his courage
fiery hot,
for never yet was mountain horse a cur.
down by Araluen where the stony ridges
raise
Their torn and rugged battlements on high,
Where the air is clear as crystal and the white
stars fairly blaze
At midnight in the cold and frosty sky,
And where, around “ the Overflow,” the reed-
beds sweep and sway
To the breezes and the rolling plains are wide,
The man from Snowy River is a household word
to-day,
And the stockmen tell the story of his^ide.
THE BANJO.


Amusement*.
ER MAJESTY’S THEATRE.
Lessee and Manager ; ... Mr. Geo. Rignold.
Doors open at 7 ; commencing 7.40. Carriages at 10.35.
COMPLETE AND EMPHATIC SUCCESS OF
Mr. WILLIAM RIGNOLD
In a New and Original Drama, entitled,
“KTOW-A DAYS.”
Box Office at Theatre from 10 to 5. Prices as usual.
J. P. Macdonald, Acting-Manager.
THEATRE.
QRITERION
Under the Management of Messrs. Brough and Boucicault.
General Manager . .. Mr. Mayne.
Overture at 8 sharp. Carriages at 10.30.
IMMENSE SUCCESS ! IMMENSE SUCCESS !
OF THE
ENGLISH COMIC OPERA COMPANY,
in
H. B. FARNIE’S Comic Opera,
IST E IVI ESI SI N EMESIS!
The Opera produced under the personal direction of
Mr. HENRY BRACY.
Admission —55., 35., 2s. and Is.
Box Plan at Nicholson’s. Carriages at 10.30 p.m
Jos Davis, Business Manager.
gCH O O L OF ARTS
MACC
MACCABE }
MACCABE J
School
of
Arts.
/Molle. MINNIA
Mdlle. MINNIA
i Mullk. MINNIA
Saturday, *«tli April, and Every Evening.
George Buller, Manager.
O N D 1 AQUARIUM.
The Most Popular
PICNIC AND PLEASURE GROUNDS of AUSTRALIA.
The Famous Switchback Railway, conveying
Passengers from Cliff to Cliff daily.
Splendid Asphalt Open-Air Skating-Rink Free to Visitors
Open Daily from 10 a.m to 10 p.m.
Admission, Is.; Children, Gd. Trams to Oate 1 are, 4d
Theatre # royal.
ROCKHAMPTON, QUEENSLAND.
Seating Accommodation ;
( 200. Dress Circle.
■ 200, Stalls.
1-100, Pit.
Stage, 45x50 feet. Scenery and Fittings com-
plete, and every convenience. Sliding Roof for
ventilation.
W. G. CAPOEN & CO,, Lessees.
For Terms and Dates, apply
SABER BROTHERS,
Rockhampton.
fjIHEATRE ROYAL
Under the Management of Messrs. Williamson,
Garner and Musgrove.
Lessee, Mr. S. Lazar. Treasurer, Mr. Geo. L. Goodman.
EMPHATIC SUCCESS
of
Mrs. Potter and Mr. tiyrlo Bellow*
in Sardon’s World-renowned Drama,
La. Xosca. La Tosca.
Admission —55., 3s. and Is.
■qarlinghurst skating rink.
SKATING
TO-DAY
SKATING
TO-NIGHT
SKATING
TO-DAY
SKATING
TO-NIGHT
SKATING
TO-DAY
SKATING
TO-NIGHT
SKATING
TO-DAY
SKATING
TO-NIGHT
•SKATING
TO DAY
SKATING
TO-NIGHT
SKATING
the largest and rest
IN THE WORLD.
Remember! Remember!
Seven Laps to the Mile.
THE SPLENDID FLOOR
PRONOUNCED
PERFECT!
THREE SESSIONS
TO-DAY.
Morning, 10 to 1?. Ad.,6d. Skates
Free. Afternoon, 2.30 to 5.
Admission: Gents,ls; Ladies,Od.
Skates, 6d.
Evening, 7.30 till 10.15.
Admission, Is. Skates, Is.
Season Tickets:
Gents, 50s. Ladies, 40s.
SKATING
TO-DAY
SKATING
TO-NIGHT
SKATING
TO-DAY
SKATING
TO-NIGHT
SKATING
TO-DAY
SKATING
TO-NIGHT
SKATING
TO-DAY
SKATING
TO-NIGHT
SKATING
TO-DAY
SKATING
TO-NIGHT
SKATING
Theatrical
H O SIEHY.
SILK I
COTTON I
WOOL J
TIGHTS, SHIRTS,
AND
OPERA HOSE,
PADS, ANIMAL DRESSES, ETC.
SPECIALITIES MADE TO ORDER.
Gilt Trimmings Boots, Stage Fabrics.
Manufacturers to all leading London and Provincial
Theatres.
AUSTRALIAN AGENTS WANTED.
B. BURNET & CO.,
42 King Street, Covent Garden, London.
JASMANIAN INDUSTRIAL EXHIBITION.
—TO BE OPENED-
IN
Launceston, Tasmania, Last Week in November, 1890
Applications for Space CLOSE Ist July.
Particulars obtainable from S. J. SUTTON, Hon. Sec.,
Town Hall, Launceston.
GUNTHER’S BRISBANE CAFE,
George Street (below Hunter-st.), Sydney.
T7<RED. GUNTHER, late of the Wheatsheaf Hotel,
P Castlereagh-st., is desirous of informing his patrons
and the public generally that he has now become pro-
prietor of the BRISBANE CAFE, GEORGE STREET.
These premises are commodious, and every convenience is
obtainable. None but liquors of the first quality retailed.
Two of Alcoek’s Prize Billiard Tables provided. Files of
sporting and dramatic papers kept. Special ‘•.ccommoda-
tion for the theatrical profession.
—The Latest Rage! =
YOUR NAME neatly printed on Twenty (20) Beautiful
Embossed VISITING CARDS, comprising Floral
Landscape, Sea View, Bird and Love-Motto Designs. No
two alike. ALL FOR SIXPENCE in Stamps, postage
paid, Agents wanted. Samples free. AddrCSs—
Austral Card and Novelty
14 Hunter Street, SYDNRV.
Drapery, &o.
F
OR WARD WHILST YET YOU MAY
GET BARGAINS IN HUNDREDS.
£lO,OOO worth of Boots and Shoes and Clothing
takes some time to dispose of, however
great the bargains.
LAWLER and SONS must dispose of the very
last article in each of the celebrated
three departments, as has already been
announced.
BARGAINS unprecedented, and of a nature to
make one’s teeth water, and wish they
had a bank at their back to satisfy
their longing.
COUNTRY CUSTOMERS ARE INVITED
TO WRITE DOWN THEIR WANTS AND
ENCLOSE A POUND OR A FEW POUNDS,
AND IF THEY ARE NOT SATISFIED
WITH THE PARCEL THAT LAWLER AND
SONS WILL MAKE UP FOR THEM DUR-
ING THIS GREAT CLEARANCE SALE OF
DRAPERY, CLOTHING, BOOTS, AND
SHOES, THEN THE FIRM WILL GLADLY
RETURN THE MONEY.
OR, BETTER STILL, SEND TO SOME
FRIEND OR ACQUAINTANCE IN SYDNEY
AND ASK THEM TO VISIT “ LAWLER
AND SON’S ” EMPORIUM FOR YOU, AND
PUT THEM UPON THEIR METAL AND
SEE WHAT CAN BE DONE FOR A POUND
OR TWO.
TELL THEM, IF YOU LIKE, TO SEARCH
THE CITY AND FIND OUT LOWEST
PRICES FOR FIRST-CLASS GOODS BE-
FORE GOING TO 608, 610, AND 612 GEORGE
STREET, AND INSTRUCT THEM NOT TO
BUY AT “LAWLER’S” UNLESS THEY
FIND THAT THEY Ci\N SAVE ss. IN THE
POUND BY PURCHASING THERE.
BARGAINS
“ Thick as Leaves
in Yallombrosa.”
BARGAINS
Every counter and every shelf laden with newest
and best goods all reduced to less than cost, and
first come first served.
Although busy as hatters keeping forward line
after line to meet the demand and to rid ourselves
of the goods in the three Clearance Departments,
still we are not forgetting to attend closely as ever
t 0 ° GOOD OLD FURNISHING TRADE.
Forgetting, egad, the public who have been for
so many long years so well and so faithfully served
will not allow us time to forget, as our busy
factories bear ample testimony.
UPHOLSTERY.—Up to our eyes in it.
CARPETS. —Never off our knees.
BEDDING. —Up to our elbows, stuff, stuff,
stuffing.
WIRE MATTRESSES.—Broken-backed and
sore at finger ends, so gi'eat the rush upon
them.
Whether that thirsty mortal the “whisky”
authority, who declared that there was nothing
like a glass of best old Scotch for Influenza, be
correct or not,
ONE THING IS CERT Alls,
And that is
That those who sleep upon LAWLER’S MAT-
TRESS KS, and who keep their head cool and
their feet warm, and cry a fig for medicine, can
CRACK THEIR THUMBS
at
LA GRIPPE or INFLUENZA.
This is the weather that tempts one to marry,
so hurry up to the one certain
FURNISHING ESTABLISHMENT
That can turn out 100 Households at one day’s
notice.
NO FALSE PROMISES
OR
VEXATIOUS DELAYS,
OR
CAUSE FOR ANNOYANCE
OR
FEARS OR DOUBTS
IF
YOU
DEPEND
UPON
LAWLER and SONS’ UNIVERSAL
EMPORIUM,
608, 610, 612 GEORGE-STREET,
SYDNEY.
608 to 612 GEORGE-STREET.
MISTAKES ARE WORSE THAN CRIMES.
We are kept so busy that we have not been
able to turn up to quote the author of the above
remarkably true saying, but we repeat it,
MISTAKES ARE WORSE THAN CRIMES.
Let your mistakes be at once rectified by calling
at “LAWLER’S,” and get some of the Prize
Bargains or Sweets that now may be found at
LAWLER’S. . , , ... . .
Take care of the pennies, the pounds will look
after themselves, is an old “saw our good old
Mothers and Fathers taught us.
We are not too old to avail ourselves of the good
old lesson.
BOOTS & SHOES-HAVE YOU BEEN YET ?
IF NOT, “GO !” YOU WILL GET
TWO PAIRS FOR THE PRICE OF ONE.
HATS AND CAPS. HEAVEN’S SAKE
“GO.” You’ll be satisfied, for we’re in
it, and mean to make them go quicker
than the present high wind does.
SHIRTS AND COLLARS.—Stiff as Starch and
limp as lint in price. Our Shirts are a
terror to the laundry people; they cannot
wear them out.
CLOTHING —The trade cry out, “ May the
Devil take us,” so that’s character enough
as to price. Mem.—We don’t feel dis-
posed to sing out Amen to their prayer all
the same.
DRAPERY.—Phew ! Are you their “Moriarty?”
We fairly revel in it. The delighted
Mothers and Daughters and others who
chat and gossip so pleasantly and say with
such emphasis and such satisfaction :
“ Well, really you are giving us bar-
gains, and I am truly delighted with my
purchases. ”
Of course we are losing money by ridding our-
selves of this enormous stock ; we do not deny it,
but we have stated our reasons.
We will make it all up in good time with our
furnishing business when we get the increased
space.
We are grateful and thankful, and we have
every reason to believe the public are satisfied with
our efforts.
Drapery, &c.
Lawler’s price hath power to soften
Cares that might our peace destroy ;
Nay, does more —transforms them often
Changing sorrow into joy.
AND NOW—PRESTO, OPEN SESAME.
We cannot let this advertisement close without
informing our friends that we have looked up and
laid out some thirty special lines in our
CELEBRATED FURNISHING CARPET
DEPARTMENT.
That Department in which the goods “ like
moonlight on a falling shower, ’ look ever bright
and beautiful. .
We name them hereunder and attach their
prices and proudly defy competition from any
source,
BEST BRUSSELS CARPETS—
-2s 6d, 2s 9d, 3s, 3s 3d per yard.
A lot of last year’s patterns of
5 FRAME BRUSSELS CARPETS
at 3s 4d to clear.
TAPESTRY CARPETS-
Is 6d, Is 9d, 2s, 2s 3d yer yard.
WILTON and AXMINSTER CARPETS—
Moderate prices.
STAIR CARPETS, RUGS, MATS, &e., &c.—
All Prices. Splendid Value.
CHINA, HEMP AND OTHER MATTINGS—
-sd, Gd, 7d, 9d, lOd, Is, &c., per yard,
FLOORCLOTHS and LINOLEUMS—
Widths ranging 6ft., 12ft., 15ft. wide.
Prices, 2s per square yard, upwards.
MARBLE TILE PATTERNS—
For Shops and Halls,
12ft. wide, 3s 3d per square yard.
PASSAGE GLOTHS-
-Bd, Is, Is Gd, 2s, 2s Gd, &c., per yard.
WINDOW CURTAINS— _ t .
A Large Assortment of Tapestry Curtains
suitable for winter. Must be cleared out.
Prices, 6s Gd, 10s Gd, 13s Gd, 15s, 20s, 22s (xl
per pair.
TAPESTRY for COVERINGS, &c.—
A Splendid Variety from 4s Gd per yard
upwards.
TABLE COVERS, in Velvet Pile, Tapestry, &c.,
from 10s Gd upwards.
HAIR BEATINGS, PLUSHES, FRINGES,
etc., for Upholstering.
An Early Inspection Solicited. TSS The Bargains
offered going off rapidly.
John Lawler & Sons,
60S, «10, 6I‘J tJeorgc Street, Sydney.
O. H. SMITH & SON,
MANUFACTURERS & IMPORTERS OF
H7HPJS AND 071 P g .
302 George Street, Sydney,
8 Doors South of Hunter Street.
.jj'cN
«
A Large Assort
aaent of English and
French Goods, from
the best Makers to
choose from.
Every description
of HATS and CAPS
made to Order.
SMOKE
NOTHING
BUT
PIPES.
I
1
PIPES.
THE BEST ITT THE WOULD.
Wholesale Agents :
JULIUS GOLDSCHMIDT & CO.
281 Clarence Street.
First Prize —MELBOURNE EXHIBITION.
Mr* and Mrs* Thomas Aschs
Beg to inform their Friends and Patrons that,
in addition to other recent improvements at the
ROYAL HOTEL,
a first-class HYDRAULIC ELEVAIOR has
been erected for the convenience of Visitors,
rendering it the most complete and comfortable
house in Sydney; and with the personal and un-
ceasing attention of Mr. and Mrs. Asohe in every
detail of management, they rely on the continued
patronage of their many old friends, whose kindly
recommendation of the ROYAL HOTEL to their
friends will be esteemed.
TWAIN’S FAMILY & COMMERCIAL HOTEL,
VV PRINCES STREET,
(Opposite G.P.0.)
X) TJ IN' IE ID I TnT, ZCsT.Z.
AIM ril-MKK
Prourlelor.
N
Furniture, &c.
EWTON AND
LAMB.
FURNITURE and PIANOFORTE
WAREHOUSEMEN,
CABINETMAKERS, UPHOLSTERERS
AND
BEDDING MAN I'FACTURERS.
SHOW ROOMS AND MANUFACTORY;
SPRING AND O’CONNELL STREETS.
URIEL SUITES for DINING-ROOM ST DE-
Jj BOARD, DINNER WAGGON, TABLE,
OVERMANTEL, COUCH, EASY CHAIRS,
CARVING CHAIRS and DINING CHAIRS,
all 1 ’natch. Newton & Lamb.
IELF-ADJUSTING HAMMOCK CHAIR,
Patented.
This chair adjusts itself to any position, from
sitting to reclining and vice versa, at the \yill of
the occupant. It is simple yet ingenious in its
construction; works automatically. The above
cut represents only two of the numerous positions
be obtained instantly, and with but little
effort. It fits perfectly every part of the body,
and gives the occupant entire rest. We can now
supply portable suspension Stands to enable the
Chair to be used anywhere. Price, with Stand,
30s. ; without Stand, 255.
Packing in canvas, if required, 2s. 6d. extra.
D
, RAW IN G-RO O M SUITES, Fashionably
' Upholstered, at all prices.
TABLES in all Woods, im-
mense variety of designs; also, elegantly
finished in Embroidery, Plush, &c. Newton and
Lamb.
f
WALNUT FALL
FRONT PEDESTAL
WRITING DESKS, of vari-
ous sizes, fitted with Shelves,
Moveable Pigeon-holes, Slid-
ing Trays, Stationery, Draw-
ers, revolving portable triple
Inkstand. Receptacles for
Stamps, and Ruler and Pen
Racks. Outside Drawers divided into compart-
ments by movable partitions to admit of enlarging
or diminishing the space when required. Locks
automatically. One of the most useful, commo-
dious, and perfectly-planned articles for the Library
or Office yet produced. Admirably suited to the
necessities of professional and business men.
TITALNUT FALL FRONT SING Ll'.
\\ PEDESTAL WRITING DESK.
Internal arrangements almost identical with the
description given above. Price only £l2 10s.
m
Dr A W I N fr - R O O M
CABINETS.
Early English
CHIPPENDALE DESIGNS.
Newton & Lamb.
f
EDSTEADS, all size
Nickel-plated and Black and
Brass. Great variety.
Bedding.—All descriptions
at lowest rates.
Newton & Lamb.
ƒ
SPRING MAT-
TRESSES (Woven
Wire), best make; also,
Spiral Spring.
Price, from 7s. 6(1. each-
CNHEAP FURNITURE.-Pine Tables, from
j 10s. ; Dining Tables, from 20s. ; Kitchen
Dressers, from 225. (id.; Washstands, from 12s. Gd.;
Chests of Drawers, from 405.; Wardrobes, from
80s.; Cedar Cheffoniers, from 30s. ; Cedar Side-
boards, from £3 35.; Clothes Horses, from
Bs. Gd. ; Writing Tables, with drawers, from 2os.
F
I
C E
ALL
CHESTS.
SIZES.
TRICES LOW.
NEWTON and LAMB.
JjIXCELSIOR
UPRIGHT
IMPROVED
REFRIGERATORS.
Various Sizes, from 455.
N
EWTO N AND LAMB
FURNITURE and PIANOFORTE
WAREHOUSEMEN,
CABINETMAKERS, UPHOLSTERERS
AND
BEDDING MANUFACTURERS.
Show Rooms and Manufactory :
SPRING and O’CONNELL STREETS.


Roberts, conceding one ball, beat Richards by
51 games to 49 in the return pyramid match.
Tirailleur, who after Corunna is the boss New
Zealand three-year-old this year, is called “Tra-la-la” by
the stable-boys. A jockey loves French names as much
as the gaily-dressed bookmaker docs.
Narellan and Kirkham are both nephews, on
th’a dam’s side, to such a modern English Derby winner as
George Frederick. That sensational horse, by the way,
was a very big-barrelled fellow. Critics say he “lacked
quality.”
f-'culler Haitian once stayed at Manly, and the
other morning it was announced that O’Connor was out
pulling there. When the people turned out and found it
was only Dan O'Connor, the N.S.W. Postmaster-General,
they wept bitterly.
Tire famous “red sun-shado ” that, in the hands
of a lady, so often hailed the victorious S ‘aile on the
Parramatta lies buried with him. It was broken return-
ing to town on the day that he beat Kemp, and carefully
preserved as a memento of his many wins.
The Searle memorial fund drags as slowly along
as the Sydney North Shore bridge scheme. Searle is dead
and buried, and the gush is done. They spent Heaven
knows how much on the poor lad's funeral, and now the
tombstone-money is dribbling in half-a-crown at the time.
Australia yearns for somebody to worship, and now and
then it fancies for a moment that it has found a real h"ro,
but it soon lets him drop with (same old chesnut) a dull,
sickening thud.
Goddard, the Barrier champion, lately matched
to fight Mick Dooley, is one of the most muscular and yet
symmetrical men that ever stepped into the ring in
Sydney, and just the build of man for boat-pulling. He
can’t box much yet though, and he is as slow as a top.
He was advertised to knock Jem Hall out at Foley’s
Athletic Hall in four rounds at the benefit taken by that
very clever middle-weight on the alleged eve of his depar-
ture for America ; but, owing to Jem’s influenza they put
the house off with a light sparring-match. From the
manner in which Hall slammed Goddard and got away
untouched, it did not appear as if the big Barrier man
con'd have knocked him out in anything short of a go to
a finish.
The most amusing piece of little Pedl'ng-
tonianism in Melbourne is the Albert Park Yacht Club,
which disports on a duck-pond called the Lagoon, only
four feet deep,,so that if a crew of brave buccaneers are
capsized they have only to wade ashore and spoil their
uniforms. You would die laughing to see the President
come out in full naval uniform, hitching up his breeches
like the bounding boatswain of the boiling Baltic, and talk-
ing about “ abaft the taflrail,” “ shiver my timbers,” and
all that lingo, he being a softgoodsman or something of
the sort, like the valorous (softgoods) Colonel Sargood,
who never could hide his disgust at poor, dismal Jimmy
Lorimer, a mere tea-and-sugar man, taking command
of the troops, d la General Boom.
As the English Two Thousand Guineas Stakes
and Derby draw nigh for decision, an ever-increasing
volume of unadulterated bosh issues on the subject of
“Mr. James White’s colts.” Apologies for the supposed
hopelessness of their chances are now taking the shape of
attacks upon the English climate, to which it is insanely
insinuated that Kirkham and Narellan are not yet accus-
tomed. Let us frankly admit that Kirkham and Narellan
have been given every possible opportunity to de-
velope whatever racing powers are in them. If
they are only moderate, why ascribe their want
of form to the “severity of the English winter,”
or talk about them being “fit” by September?
Matthew Dawson has given the colts a long, steady pre-
paration for their “classic” engagements, and if they
shape badly it will he unnecessary to look for any ex-
planation of their defeat save in their natural inferiority
to their English contemporaries. Dreadnought, forallwe
know, may be two stone better than either of his ex-
ported relatives. Meantime The Bulletin* will not be
surprised to find that one or both of them will have a big
say in the Two Thousand Guineas race—their “ lack of
quality” and mysterious “going off” notwithstanding.
Anyhow, nothing can be more stupidly contemptible than
this manufacturing of excuses beforehand, merely on the
strength of opinions expressed by English touts. Touts,
forsooth ! Their unanimous condemnation of a horse’s
form is often a first-class certificate of excellence in the
maligned quadruped.
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
“T.M.T,
“ Home for the Aged Poor,
“ Parkfield-avenue, Birkenhead.
“ The Little Sisters of the Poor have muob
pleasure in bearing their testimony as to the
efficacy of Allcock s Porous Plasters. They have
seen great benefit derived from them on account
of the relief they so quickly give the sufferer.
They find them a very soothing remedy for all
sorts of pains.— Dec. 24, 188 S.”
The Rev. Mark Guv Peause says;—“l find
them a very breastplate against colds and coughs.”
Mrs. Henry Ward Beecher (widow of the
celebrated preacher) says : —“I have found them
a genuine relief for most of the aches and pains
which flesh is heir to.”
George Agustus Sara says, referring to an
attack of bronchitis and asthma he had:—“One
on the chest and another between the shoulder
blades soon set me right again.”
A. Marvellous Remedy.
The approved External Remedy of the. a;/c.
ALUC OCR'S POROUS PIASTERS.
Lumbago, Sciatica, Rheumatism, Bronchitis,
Asthma, and all affections of the throat and
lungs; also in Pains, Sprains, and Strains of
every description, and of great efficacy in Indi-
gestion, if worn over the right side of the pit of
the stomach, changing them every ten days.
A Word of Caution.
When you ask for a Porous Plaster, see you get
Allcock’s ; let no explanation or solicitation
INDUCE YOU TO ACCEPT A SUBSTITUTE.
Sold by all Chemists, in various sizes, from 1/1A
to 22/6.
/COUNTRY STOREKEEPERS, ETC.
Should write or call upon
A. M. MARKS & CO.,
—lmporters op—
Furniture, Pianofortes, Glass, Earthenware,
CHINA, FANCY GOODS, ELECTRO PLATE,
CIGARS A TOBACCONISTS SIN OH ICS
SOLE AGENTS FOR
Dawn Cigars and Salonica Turkish Cigarettes.
Special Novelties in all Lines for Christmas Trade.
Price* on Application to —
■A.. IWC. IVErAirises & Co.,
Vickery's Buildings, 74a Pitt Streeet, Sydney
AND AT LONDON.
Telephone, No. 919.
■JIO CAPITALISTS, SPECULATORS,
and Others.
Vacant Lands near Svdnev
AVAILABLE UNDER THE
Non-Residential Clauses of the Land Act.
Eor particulars and terms apply to
“ INVESTIGATOR,”
Box son, G.P.0., Sydney.
“Purify the blood, cleanse the stomach, and
t' aten the breath, with Dr. Soule’s American
hop Bitters.”
William Holden, of the weekly Adelaid®
Observe!*, is said to be the oldest working jour-
nalist in Australia. At one time he used to be an
enthusiastic smoker, but a score or more years ago
he threw aside his pipe and pouch and “swore
oif,” except once a year. That anniversary date
he religiously observes every 4th July, when from
“rosy morn ” till the hour when graveyards yawn
he blows a cloud. Strangely enough, this annual
pick-me-up agrees with him. Holden is one of
the ancient pressmen of Adelaide. He was an in-
stitution in the Parliamentary gallery previous to
the time of Colli son and J. H. Pmiayson (editor
of the S. A. Register). Those were the easy-
going days when there, was no Hansard in Ade-
laide, and the Press simply bossed hon. members.
If the Home showed a disposition to sit late, the
Press would simply retire to meet its best girl
round the corner. Then would the adjournment
be quickly moved.
AUSTRAL’S
BIRTHDAY CUP.
Kami wick, May 24.
10,000 AT 1 EACH. 10,000
f
ƒ
AUSTRAL’S
BIRTHDAY CUP
Randwiclc, May 24.
20,000 at 10 each. 20,000
f
ƒ
All communications by Letter only.
Address
“ AUSTRAL,”
CARE OF THE
NATIONAL BOOT MANUFACTURING COMPANY,
250 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Federation —It is rumored, that, had it not
been for the wonderful vitality properties contained
in Herr Rassmussen’s celebrated Denmark Vitality
Pills, most of the Delegates attending the recent
Federation Conference would have succumbed to
the enermous strain on their nervous system, and
the much longed for Federation would have been
further off than ever.
A worthy individual, describing himself as
the lessee of the Theatre Royal, L (N.S.W.)
lately made overtures to a defunct “firm” of
Melbourne theatrical agents to supply him with
“amusements” suitable to that little trodden
region. An extract from the lessee’s letter is
worth printing, and may catch the eye of someone
able to supply L— with the wild dissipations
enquired for :
I would be glad if was possible to get for Hire a Wax
Worth, as they are thousands of persons that never saw
one in there life here. Also any natural Curossity, or
Artificial Hairy men, Peep Shows, Magic Lanterns, or in
fact anything curious.
It wouldn't be a bad idea to send ’em Sir ’Enry
Parkes. He s a tolerably hairy and artificial kind
of curossity.
• •
th e
ROYAL
EDINBURGH
CASTte
SpECIAIRESERVE”
* A *
OLD
SCOTCHWHISkY
>u
m4fk
KOVAL
Edinburgh Castle
WHISKY.
*- # *
SPECIAL EeSERVE.
In Square Bottles.
This Whisky was
selected by our Gene-
ral Manager, Mr. Jas.
Cullen, during his
recent visit to Scot-
land, and through its
purity, age and mag-
nificent bouquet, has
already secured the
prfemi er posi t i on in the
market. In cases, qrs.
and octaves. To be
had Duty Paid from
any of the Wholesale
Wine and Spirit Mer-
chants and Distribu-
ting Houses, and in
Bond only from the
SOLE AGENTS,
William Campbell k Co M Limited*
58 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
WILLIAM CARGILL,
Photographic Stock Importer,
26 STREET,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
--- x -
;■ : '
}-leiomT 1
-I-. Length -1 " 10-
■\y:H? ALING
V V # 1 * (LIMITED)
IS the most complete and perfect instrument ever offered at the price.
Seven Octaves, Full Trichord, Iron Frame, Patent Check Action, Brass
Pin Plate, Cross-strung, requiring only the minimum of tuning. The tone
is powerful, clear, brilliant and pure. In v.ery elegant Black and Gold or
Walnut Cases. > * 6 *
This Piano is introduced by W. 11. PALTXG & CO., Limited, for the
purpose of meeting a long-felt demand for a good, reliable in.-lrument at an
easy price, and thereby giving to the head of almost every household an
opportunity of supplying his home with a firstrdass Piano at a price heretofore
rx .paid for a*much inferior instrument. A
Depth 2-1-.' &
■):(■
The
Only Pair Way
of
Drawing.
BIRTHDAY CUP,
50,000 at 10.
Run 24tb. May,
The
Only Fair Way
oi
Drawing.
Address: “ ADAM BEDE,” care of H. N. Abbott,
(Owner of United Sendee Hotel, Auckland Theatre Royal, Abbott's Opera House, Auckland, N.Z.
(Our Only Sydney Address) — POST OFFICE CHAMBERS, SYDHEY, N.S.W.
1 »>
NEWEST INVENTION GREATEST NOVELTY.
THE
&
PATENT DIAG-ONAL SEAM CORSET,
Patented in England and on the Continent.
Will uol Spill in Hie Seams nor Tear in Hie Fabric,
Exquisite Model. Perfect Comfort. Guaranteed Wear.
The Queen says:—“These Corsets are a new departure. The material is cut on the
cross, and the component parts being also arranged diagonally, the seams have no strain.
They’ are admirably modelled, exquisitely neat and strong, and the workmanship all
that could he desired.”
Gold medal. New Zealand Exhibition, 1882.
Gold Medal (Highest Award for Corsets), London
International Exhibition. 1884.
latest Award ! Gold medal. International
Exhibition, Edinburgh, 1*8«.
CAUTlON.— Bewareof worthless imitations.
Every genuine Y &N Corset is stamped
“ Y & N PATENTDIAGONAL SEAM
CORSET, N 0.116,” in oval.
l\\C:
Sold by aU Drapers’ and Ladles’ Outfitters in the United Kingdom and Colonies.
Ask for the
Unequalled
“DAWN” 3d. CIGAR,
zAh
Of all
Tobacco nists.
Store
AND
Hotel
KEEPERS.
Wholesale Agents: A. M. MARKS
& Co., 74a PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
hisKl
wBB
DAWSON'S
Sole Agents for Australasia
VAUGHAN, EOGEES & CO.,
(Opposite G.P.0.)
108 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
p
E
R
F
E
C
T
I
O
N
WHISKY:
BUB-AGENTS WANTED
IN THE
PRINCIPAL CENTRES
THROUGHOUT AUSTRALASIA.
GONE WRONG-
If you had got wet through, as you probably
have been at some time or other during the last
few days, and if you have awoke in the morning
with a feeling that nothing could tempt you to get
up, not even though you knew it was your wed-
ding day, and the bride was even then being pre-
pared for the sacrifice, you may depend upon it
that something has gone wrong somewhere. If
you use St. Jacobs oil promptly and vigorously
you may escape with nothing more serious than a
cold, and even that will be in a mild form ; but if
you think you know better than the thousands
who urge you to use it on account of its wonder-
ful efficacy in their own oases, then by all means
lay yourself out for the attack of rheumatism,
neuralgia, sciatica, or some kindred demoniacal
torture and welcome. But don’t afterwards pre-
tend that you didn’t know any better. St.
Jacobs oil is not a quack remedy.
Every application gives relief.
Every bottle contains a cure.
Every bottle tested as to quality.
Every genuine bottle bears the firm’s signature.
Every home in Australia knows its value.
Every spoken language knows its name.
Every journal of the land praises it.
Every household shelf should have it.
Every testimonial strictly true.
Every day increased demands.
Every patient is amazed and cured.
Every ache or pain succumbs.
Every druggist knows its merits.
Every chemist finds it perfect.
*##The proprietors of St. Jacobs oil are sincere
and positive in all they allege in regard to its
virtues, and have offered large rewards for proof
showing that any testimonials published by them
are not genuine.
SIX GOLD MEDALS
have been awarded to ST. JACOBS OIL at
different International Exhibitions for its marvel-
lous power to relieve and cure pain. Its action is
s afe, sure and speedy, penetrating deeply to the
s eat of pain and curing when everything else has
failed.
Sold by all Chemists and Storekeepers.
ESSAY ON TIME.
Time is usually represented as a bow-legged old
man hobbling along with a rusty, broken-edged
scythe that wouldn’t cut cheese on a cold day ;
but every man who is deep in debt and seeks to
stave off calamity by giving his acceptance will
t dl you with woeful eyes that “Old Invincible ”
H ow does his travelling with a pair of the stoutest
wings, with not a feather out of place, and carry-
ing a nickel silver keyless “ Waterbury,” showing
time to the minute. Procrastination may be “ the
thief of time,” but if he cribs a “Waterbury ” you
can replace it at the following figures : Series E
(the old favourite), 13s. (id. ; series J or L (the
new marvels of American inventive and mechanical
ingenuity), 20s.
DOING THEIR WORK WELL.
Writing from Gundy, under date 17th February,
1890. Mr. William Grace says:—“l received
the watch safe sent to be repaired, and it is now
going as well as ever. I have had it two years,
and it always kept fhvt-cla s time, till I over-
wound it. I have carried a watch for forty years,
and never found one to give me the satisfaction
of the Waterbury, although I have paid twenty
guineas for one.”
Mr. Arthur Taplin, Cobbitty, March 3. 1890,
writes ; —“ I’m perfectly satisfied with the Water-
bury watch I have in my possession. I see a good
many of the watches, and it is the general opinion
that they are good, cheap watches.”
From Cowra, under date 24th February, 1890,
“F. A.” writes : “My watch came safely to hand.
It has given me great satisfaction since I bought
it about two years ago. Although it has had very
rough usage, it has proved a good timekeeper, and
I feel confident that now, after cleaning, it will be
as good as ever.”
CAUTION.— AII Watches Manufactured
by the Waterbury Watch Co. have the word
“WATERBURY” printed in pine type upon
THEIR DIAL PACES, AND ALSO THE INTERWOVEN
LETTERS W.W.CO., WITHOUT WHICH NO WATCH
sold as a WATERBURY is genuine. If you
want correct time and a watch which in event of
accident can be efficiently repaired at a reasonable
cost, DEMAND THE WATERBURY.
1
X:
w. , «ak
& CO. discard
the green bulb of the rose
and use the leaves only for their
Soaps, Perfumes, and Sachet
Powders, of which
Cashmere Bouquet
is the favorite.
This is a very tedious and ex-
pensive process, yet in no other
way could the delicacy of perfume
be obtained which distinguishes
COLGATE’S
SOAPS 0 PERFUMES.


Business Announcements.
PR 11)1)Y & CO.,
~ jffi
B’.T'-'iUu " ■”■ i;,. ‘llllllH
' —OF—
-438 George Street, Sydney.
Branch—67B George Street, Brickfield Hill.
Hats made to Order-
Morley's Hosiery.
PROBLEM OF TO-DAY-WHERE CAN WE GET GOOD
BOOTS ?—SOLVED AT LAST.
lE3 . IiSP JES. E2JC H-ST
(TViC French of years ago)
Can supply Residents here with Boots batter made than
ever. Boots that must wear well and give satisfaction.
Send your orders then to 82 Oxford Street, and be sure
to enclose Sizes and Remittance, when your parcel will be
sent at once by Post, Rail, or Steamer.
Notice Prices for Boots that lools well, wear well
and fit well.
Children’s Elastic-sides, 2/-, 2/11, 3/6, 4/-, 4/6, etc | Best
Men’s & Youths’ ditto, 5/0, 6/-, C/0, 7/6, 8/0, etc. / Boots
Men’s & Boys’ Bluchers, 2/11, 4/-, 5/-, 6/-, best ever made.
A Line of Stylish Laced Boots for Best Wear
(Boys’, Youths’ and Men’s Sizes).
ENGLISH BOOTS for LADIES, CHILDREN, etc.,
Sent as ordered. Lowest Price.
Satisfaction given or Money Returned.
Note the Address ;
ECLIPSE BOOT GO.,
83 Oxford Streel, SYOYEY.
E. French, Manager.
J. d. IHs'o.eS.oc'SFsri.cii -Sz Son,
Manufacturers and Importers of Superior
OAK-TANNED LEATHER BELTING
and every description of Leather Goods for Mining
and Engineering purposes.
f
All Goods bearing the above Trade Mark are warranted
to entire satisfaction, or may be returned at the
Makers’ expense. The Pioneer Oak-tanned Leather
Belting is used exclusively by the N.S.W. Government.
Over $OO,OOO running in Australia. The cheapest and
best Belting in the world. Send for prices and catalogues
162 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
You Will most certainly save Money,
Time, and Anxiety by placing all your
Advertising in our
hands.
NO
DON’T
WASTE
IT
Write
to
E. T. WIMBLE & CO.,
Advertising Experts,
369 to 373 George St., Syd. Send for Pamphlet
“ How to advertise and why ? ” nth Edition.
NOW ACKNOWLEDGED
TH E BEST
IN THE MARKET
m
rv
A XSIHM
SOLD
M W.t 0°
M
m
m
KW
I
ms
THE TREE OF LIFE.
rt*C
Emcalypte. OSLSa
Victory Ointment**
Duncan. Ross,
The Great American Athlete,
CURED of INFLUENZA by using COLEMANE & SONS’
EUCALYPTE EXTRACT.
WON’T BE DECEIVED.
If you want the best Medicine the world has ever pro-
duced, try Colk.mank & Sons’ Eucalypte Extract— there
are no ten medicines equal to it. It is one of Nature’s
greatest gifts to mankind. It is the only known cure for
Asthma, Consumption, Bronchitis, anti all affections of
the Chest and Lungs. For Palpitation of the Heart,
Gravel and Kidney complaints it has no equal. Fevers of
all kinds, Coughs, Colds, Rheumatism, etc., are banished
by its use. Awarded Medals and Diplomas Adelaide,
Sydney and Melbourne, beating all competitors. Singers
and public speakers will find C. and Sons’ EucaIjYPTK
llcxey a wonder. Be sure and get Coi.emank and
Sons.
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
Oarsman O’Connor tells a funny story of
Hanlan’s present doings. The ex-champion is, it appears,
travelling in the States with a show founded on the Henley
regatta. In one act a huge tank occupies the stage, and
on this Hanlan and another fellow row a desperate race.
“ Hanlan wins every night,” adds O’Connor, with a smile.
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
“ Paragon ” Watson asserts that M'Lean saved
him £lOOO on the last Beach-Hanlan race by informing
him that Hanlan, who used to give M‘Lean a start in his
work, could not really catch him although he (M'Lean)
allowed him to do so, being anxious not to dishearten
Hanlan.
<3-2*as3Lca. Pier Hotel,
-' v ?5....... rf? * ,
■■■•
ELECrniC PHOTO ENG. CO.. 8 BRIDGE-SI-, SYD
LATIMER A BROOKE « • Proprietors.
This Hotel has hecn Hc-Furnished throughout. Cuisine and Comfort a Speciality.
Aarons’ Exchange Hotel, SydLney.
Jk ,
iP- - -.S' ■ ■>»»*»?<* ■* ‘t ■,'*’■ - !
. - ■■ ,
* • -V" ~’K
’ ■■'“■SY:
.
*c ' {
Jr- .••'
! i ’ :T§
t r i
• ' ... .
■
1 ' PihHll
FStef
»H ■ . ••- ■
;*;?••
•• •
p»
.#n -
O
JKWS
Adjoining the Sydney Exchange.
■Mining, Financial and General Mercantile Intelligence
Posted several times DAILY in the Building 1 .
TELEGRAPH, POST and MONEY ORDER OFFICES on the PREMISES.
• This Hotel has been thoroughly renovated and re-fumished, and is now unrivalled for comfort
and attention.
Aarons’ Exchange Hotel Co. (Limited), Proprietors.
“THE
I_. XJ 3VE.”
Plu
THIS brand of Razor is something superior to anything that has ever been offered to the public.
Pure hollow ground, beautiful silver steel, and rings like a bell; set ready for use, and we
guarantee each Razor for two years. It never requires grinding, and to gentlemen who shave them-
selves they cannot possibly do better than to try this particular brand.
■p . / Single Razor, in strong leather case, 10/6; Pair, in beautiful morocco leather case, 21/-
1 rice Razor, ivory handle, 15/-; Pair Razors, ivory handles, in beautiful case, 30/-
Rcgistered and sent Post Free to any part of the Australian colonies.
SOLE AGENTS; CRAIG- «Sz AITKEIXT, Potosi Hairdressing Saloon,
6BO & 682 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
JONES’ SEWING MACHINES.
FOR THE BOOT AND TAILORING TRADES.
The Best Manufacturing Machines in Existence*
Now Perfected, the New No. 3 and No. 4 Machines on an Entirely new System.
stock: jtjst lapidiitg.
jFarleiffli, IXTettlieim, & 00.,
TANNERS AND LEATHER MERCHANTS,
16 x YORK x STREET, x SYDKTEY.
Solo Agents for the above for New South Wales and Queensland.
(x)
ALSO Importers of Requisites for the BOOT MANUFACTURING TRADE in all Details, including MACHINERY
IMPORTED LEATHERS, &c. ; and of the following Spkcial Links: Peerless Gloss. Satin Polish, Nubian
Itlai liing Tanners’ Tools and Materials. tST" Indents Executed on Favourable Terms.
Medical.
DR. BICHARDS.
ROOMS
l_T IM C.
CONS
g!" ■ Smß
5"._ ■ Eg ■■
DP RICHARDS .
c
.1
O*WimDK
This eminent Specialist, Founder, and Chief
Surgeon of the long-established and favourably-
known Dispensary that now bears his name, re-
ceived his medical education in the leading colleges
and hospitals of Europe. He has devoted a life-
time to the study of
PRIVATE, NERVOUS, AND SKIN
DISEASES.
He has by profound research thoroughly investi-
gated their origin, traced their deadly sources and
insidious dissemination, and ascertained the surest
and safest methods by which they may be eradi-
cated, with these widely recognised qualifications
combined with unswerving faithfulness to his
patients, he has during his practice, extending
over FORTY YEARS, attained a well-deserved
pre-eminence in their treatment. His practice
embraces diseases which probably cause more un-
happmess than any other class of troubles that
afilict mankind.
YOUNG MEN
who suffer from the results of early follies, trans-
gressions or excesses of more nature age, bladder
difficulties, a whitish or dark ropy sediment in
the water, accompanied by slight burning or
smarting sensation, Headaches, Drowsiness during
'he day, circles round the eyes, Giddiness,
irregularity of the bowels, specks before the eyes,
ba<-hfulncfs, discontentedness, weakness or pains
in the back, Liver or kidney complaints, dreams,
buzzing noises in the ears and head, pimples, a
bar that something dreadful is about to happen,
weak ttomach, yellow or blood-shot eyes, impure
blood, hasty, uncontrollable temper, hacking
ccugh, who cannot marry, nervousness in society,
wakefulness, palpitation of the heart, general
weakness, and other symptoms which lead to in-
-anity and death, should consult him, for lie has
mastered these difficulties. On receipt of 6d. in
stamps he will send secure from observation in a
plain wrapper, postage
FREE, A LARGE CLOTH-BOUND
BOOK.
Showing plainly how all diseases of the private or
nervous system may be cured thoroughly and per-
manently without unnecessary expence. - This
book will prove a valuable companion, and even
though you bo perfectly well its general inform-
lion and prescription may assist you in restoring
some poor friend to health even after his case has
been pronounced incurable by his medical at-
tendant.
ONE POUND IS SUFFICIENT TO
SEND
for Remedies necessary for the cure of NER-
VOUS DEBILITY. Should you require medical
treatment, as procrastination is sometimes dan-
gerous, it would be advisable for you to sit down
quietly in your chamber and write to the doctor,
detailing every experienced symptom. Ho will
on receipt of such a letter, write you, promptly
and courteously, a candid and straightforward
oponion of your case. If you do not think you
understand the case, send for his famous medical
work, the price of which is but sixpence ; enclosed
in the volume will be found a list of carefully-pre-
pared questions, which will, in all probability,
assist you materially in your ailment.
Dr. Richards uses nothing but the purest remedies,
and never prescribes mercury under any circum-
stances. Tile moment letters are carefully per-
used and answered they arc destroyed by fire,
and patients may rest assured that their cases
will remain a secret between the doctor and
themselves. Dr. Richards has successfully treated
nearly 25,000 cases since coming to Australia, and
has permission from at least 10,000 persons to
show their written evidence of his success. All
communications should be addressed
Dr. RICHARDS,
■7 Spring street
(Off Fitt Street North)
S ■V DNEY.
Be sure to mention this paper when writing
cot,' SU LTATION tIIEE.
“If I get out of this, Bridget, I’ll make you jump.”
“Faith an’ I know that same, so I’ll just sit here till you change your moind,
that’s all.” (And she does.) —LIFE.


Business Announcements,
NOTWITHSTANDING
• What other Produce Dealers may say, our
2E B K*4aaa.o Oaisoax CJlatastHC
■ At 4s. Gd. per Cwt. (Bags in),
IS THU
BEST
city Produce Company,
HAY STREET, HAYMABKET.
ATOOMBA FAMILY HOTEL.
First-class Accommodation for Tourists and Families.
.Wires and Letters to he addressed “ Proprietor.”
Arrangements can he made to provide transit for persons
wishing to.view the celebrated Jenolan Caves and
other places of interest.
Ever Offered.
STEAM CHAFF-CUTTERS.
JOSEPH NIWiMO
HEALTH for the MILLION !
ƒ
Mild, Aperient, Antihilious
Pills, purely vegetable
in their composition,
are particularly recommended to either sex, where a
gentle, but effective aperient is required. These Pills
are invaluable for all complaints of the Stomach, and
Liver, speedily removing sick headache, biliousness,
indigestion, etc., and cleansing the
blood of all impurities. To Ladles
these pills will be found invaluable.
One trial is sufficient, to. prove , their vast superiority
over all others. Sold by all Chemists and Storekeepers.
Price Is. per box. Prepared solely by John Watson,
Chemist, George Street, Sydney.
PILLS
—THE—
E3l ect; 3? »= sa. o
Massage ZEsa.s-fcl-tta.'t;®,
For the cure of—
Rheumatism Lumbago, Sciatica, Debility,
Gouty and Neuralgic Affections,
Muscular and Nervous Disorders
All Cases under Medical Supervision. Ladies
attended by specially-trained Nurses.
94 * DARLING HOIST * ROAD,
SYDNEY.
. Attendance: 9to 1 a.m.; 7to 10 p.m.
Process Protected by Letters Patent.
Bools of"
3JGLt
m
'l6
3ES<oes3s. ox' 20" ELtyuajc-es.
T|OOK OF NATURE and Illustrated Matri-
monial Guide. —A full and explicit explanation
of the structure and uses of the organs of life and genera-
tion in man and woman, intended especially for the
married, or those intending to marry, and who conscien-
tiously and honestly desire to inform themselves upon the
intent and nature of marriage and its duties, to which is
added a complete MEDICAL TREATISE upon all diseases
of the generative organs, whether resulting from infection
or sexual excesses and abuse, with much other valuable
and highly important information, illustrated with more
tlian fifty engravings, by M. Lafayette Byrn, M.D. ; price
3/0, post 4/-. The Fruits of Philosophy or Private Com-
panion tor Married People, post 1/2. Mrs. Besant’s Law of
Population, 1/-, post 1/2. Wonderful Song Book, extra
large,. 1/6. Aristotle, complete, 3/6, post 4/-. Maria Monk,
1/0, post 1/9. New complete Fortune Teller, 2s. “The
■Matron’s Manual or Midwifery,” the book every married
woman needs ; price 7/-, posted 7/0. “ The Male Genera-
tive Organs,” their use and abase, with many illustrations
and coloured plates ; price 7/-, posted 7/0. The arts of
Boxing, Swimming and Gymnastics made easy, enabling
anyone to become an expert boxer or athlete, illustrated
with fifty engravings ; price 1/-. “ Marriage as it was, as
R is, and as it should be,” by Mrs. Besant; 1/-, posted 1/2.
Dr. Foote’s Plain Home Talk, new edition, over 200 illu-
strations; 7/6, post free. “The Labour Movement in
America,” by Areling, post free 1/6. Matrimony, or
Phrenology and Physiology applied to the selection of
Congenial Companions for Life, 6d. The Elements of
Social Science ; 3/6, posted 4/-. Nigger Songs, 6d. Henry
George’s, Works all at 1/-, posted 1/4. Works of Ingersoll,
Paine, Bradlaugh, Besant, Foote. Send for catalogue.
%
BIE ROBERT BEAR,
Radical Book Stores,
PARK STREET, SYDNEY.
3® 18
H 0 R, Leach,
. , SUCCESSOR TO
bS. B. MODSNI, Gunmaker, informs his Customers
0 and the Public in general that he has the largest
assortment of Firearms in the colony. Qualities and prices
to defy competition. Guns by the following celebrated
gunmakersJ. Purdey & Sons, Cii. Boswell, John Rigby
and Co., Joseph Lang & Sons, Ch. Osborne & Co., Thomas
Bland & Sqn. , A large assortment of various other makers
always on hand, viz., W. W; Greener, Scott, WbblUy,
Holhs & Sons, Riley and Casiimork. All goods will be
faithfully guaranteed at 602 George-street. Sydney,
a rice list on application.
Companies.
The British and New South Wales Investment
and Financial Co., Limited.
Incorporated under the Companies’ Act, 1874.
Capital, £250,000.
Sydney Office : 246 PITT STREET.
"DILLS DISCOUNTED and Immediate Advances grunted
-*-> Daily. Country communications promptly attended
to. The following Rates of Interest are allowed for Fixed
Deposits:—
3 Years .... .... 10 per cent.
12 Months .... .... 9 per cent.
6 Months .... .... 8 per cent.
3 Months .... 7 per cent.
With a Guaranteed Bonus on Renewals of Twelve Months
and over.
By order of the Board.
W. M‘DONALD, Manager.
Ikeaf Life kmm Company,
LIMITED.
Capital ... ... £200,000.
Head Office:
21 Castlereagh St, Sydney,
With Branches and Agencies throughout the Colonies.
Jifew Business s
1887 TSiere were issued 10,557 Policies.
1888 ~ „ 34,684 „
1889 „ „ „ 57,323 „
These figures show the wonderful progress of the
Company and the high esteein placed upon its
liberal dealings by the public.
CLAIMS PAID
Immediately on Proof of Death
JAMES P. GARVAN,
WM. ALEX. SMITH,
Managing Director.
Secretary.
Shipping.
TTNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF NEW
U ZEALAND, Limited.
SAN FRANCISCO ROYAL MALL SERVICE.
OVERLAND ROUTE TO ENGLAND VIA SAN
FRANCISCO AND NEW YORK,
Calling at
AUCKLAND and HONOLULU,
Avoiding alike the heat of the Red Sea and the cold
of Cape Horn.
Under Contract with the Postmasters-General of New
South Wales and New Zealand, the steamers of this line
are appointed to leave Sydney and Auckland for Honolulu
and San Francisco every fourth Wednesday, sailing as
under:—
Each steamer carries a duly qualified surgeon.
These steamers are fitted with Electric Light and with a
Refrigerating Chamber for ship provisions, insuring a
plentiful supply of ice throughout the voy'age.
Passengers are hooked to San Francisco or through to
European destinations and have at San Francisco choice of
the unrivalled Atlantic Steamship Lines of the Cunard,
Inman, White Star, and other companies.
All first-class passengers are allowed 3501 b. of baggage
to San Francisco and 2501 b. “ Overland ” free of charge.
THROUGH FARE TO LIVERPOOL.
FIRST-CLASS .. £63 to £66.
Time-cards, railway maps, and gude hooks, showing all
routes to any point in the United States, may be had on
application
For rates of passage and freight and all other informa-
tion apply at the Company’s Offices, 15 Bridge-street.
FREDK.. W. JACKSON, Manager,
Messrs. MAUDE & CO.,
Florists and Nurserymen,
(Of the Royal Exotic Nursery, Peakhurst,)
Have just Opened their
New Premises at 141 King Street, Sydney,
And are prepared to receive orders for CHOICE
PLANTS, FERNS and CUT FLOWERS, and to
undertake all kinds of
Floral Decorations at Reasonable Prices.
Business Announcements.
HIGHLY NUTKHJVE
oeoa
MAY BE OBTAINED IN LABELLED TINS OR PACKETS THROUGHOUT THE COLONY
COMMERCIAL TRAVELLERS, TOURISTS, &c.
ROYAL HOTEL, LITHGOW,
The leading resort for
Commercial Travellers, and. Tourists.
Tire Largest Sample Rooms on the Western Line. Horses and Buggies for Hire.
Nothing hut the Best Brands of spirits sold over the bar.
Hugh Wallace, Proprietor. Late of Wallerawang.
LICHTNER & CO.,
SYDNEY: BRISBANE
318 GEORGE STREET 9 ELIZABETH STREET
2
/ : L :-;
M/ ,/'5
V '.
PHOTOGRAPHIC
-STOCK-
IMPORTERS.
'tsr SEND FOR OUR NEW ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE
—OF
CAMERAS, LENSES, CHEMICALS, MAGIC LANTERNS,
And all Articles appertaining to PHtOTOGRAPHY.
):(
CHEAP A.MATEITR OUTFITS.
Shipping.
■yyUDPART, PARKER and CD’s LINE.
STEAM TO MELBOURNE AND
TASMANIA.
FROM HUDDART, PARKER’S WHARF;
FOR MELBOURNE WHARF DIRECT—
BURRUMBEET | 4000 tons | Friday, April 25, at 5 p.m.
FOR LAUNCESTON, VIA MELBOURNE—
transhipping to S.S. NEWCASTLE.
BURRUMBEET | 4000 tons | Friday, April 26, at a p.m.
These magnificent Steamships have already establishe
a reputation for their accommodation, and their large siz
insures passengers a maximum of comfort. The SALOOI
CABINS are light and airy and very roomy. FORI
CABIN is on main deck, lofty and well ventilated. Con;,
plete sanitation and lavatories. ELECTRIC LIGHTING
throughout the ships. Inspection invited on days oi
sailing.
RETURN TICKETS AVAILABLE FOR SIX MONTHS.
For rates of Freight and Passage-money apply
HUDDART, PARKER & CO., Limited.
Offices and Wharf—Foot of Margaret-street.
JJUDDART, PARKER & CO.’S LINE.
STEAM TO MELBOURNE AND TASMANIA.
From Huddart, Parker’s Wharf.
For Time and Date of Sailing, see daily papers.
The magnificent steamships, BURRUMBEET and
ELINGAMITE, have established an unrivalled reputation
for their speed and accommodation, and their large size
ensures passengers a maximum of comfort. The saloon
cabins are light, airy and very roomy. The dining saloon
is full width of the ships, also magnificent music room,
with gentlemen’s smoking room and splendid promenade
deck. Fore-cabin is on the main deck—lofty and well-
ventilated, perfect sanitation and ample lavatories. Fore-
cabin passengers provided with victuals and rugs. Inspec-
tion invited on days of sailing.
Return Tickets available for Six Months.
For Fares and Freights apply
HUDDART, PARKER A CO. (Limited).
Office and Wharf: Foot of Margaret-Street, Sydney.
NORDDEUTSCHER LLOYD.
IMPERIAL GERMAN MAIL.
Passengers are carried according to the requirements of
the English Passenger Acts of 1885 and 1863.
MONTHLY LINE OF DIRECT STEAMERS
from
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, and ADELAIDE,
to SOUTHAMPTON, ANTWERP, and BREMEN, via
COLOMBO, Aden, Suez, and Genoa,
taking passengers for London,
connecting from PORT SAID by DIRECT MAIL and
PASSENGER LINE to BRINDISI,
will be despatched as follows (if practicable):—
And thereafter every four weeks.
PASSAGE MONEY from SYDNEY,
£l4 to £57 10s.
RETURN TICKETS, available for NINE and TWELVE
MONTHS, at REDUCED RATES.
Passengers and Cargo are booked through to New York,
via Southampton,
Special facilities are afforded for bringing out relatives
and friends from the United Kingdom and Europe by pre-
payment of the passage money in Australia.
For FREIGHT, PASSAGE, and all further particulars,
apply to FREDK. BETZ & CO., Agents, 5 O’Connell-street.
COMPAGNIE DES MESSAGERIES MARI-
TIMES.
SYDNEY to LONDON.
OVERLAND FROM MARSEILLES via PARIS.
Steamers under postal contract with the Government of
France, calling at MELBOURNE ADELAIDE, KING
GEORGE’S SOUND, MAKE, SUEZ, and PORT SAID.
Passengers booked to KURRAOHEE, BOMBAY,
MAURITIUS, and EAST COAST of AFRICA.
The service is carried on by powerful steamers of 4000
tons and 3000 effective h.p., built expressly for the Aus-
tralian and New Caledonian line, which will be despatched
as follows:
Steamers.
Commander.
iLeave Sydney' Leave Mel-
at 11 a.m. bourne4 p.m
AUSTRALI’N Didier .. .. April 25
OOEANIEN .. iPoydenot . iMay 25
| April 28
'May 28
And thenceforward on the 25th of each month.
Rates of passage-money to Marseilles from £2O to £65,
including table wines and Suez Canal dues on passengers.
RETURN TICKETS issued at the following rates: —
English interpreters meet through passengers for
London on arrival of steamers at Marseilles, and accom-
pany them to Paris and Calais. N.B.—Passengers’ luggage
conveyed free of cost from Marseilles to London. For
freight, passage, and further particulars apply at the
Company’s Office, 15 Macquarie-place.
A. CONIL, Principal Agent.
TPVIRECT SERVICE TO ENGLAND.
PENINSULAR AND ORIENTAL STEAM
NAVIGATION COMPANY.
The Company’s Royal Mail Steamships (under contract
with the Imperial, New South Wales, Victorian, and South
Australian Governments) will be dispatched from their
Wharf, Circular Quay, as under, for LONDON, calling at
Melbourne, Adelaide, Albany, Colombo, Aden, Brindisi,
Malta, Gibraltar, and Plymouth.
And henceforth every alternate week.
RESERVED CABINS ON MODERATE TERMS.
SALOON PASSENGERS MAY BREAK THEIR JOURNEY.
The arrangements for SECOND SALOON PASSENGERS
having been thoroughly re-organised, the accommodation
now offered is unsurpassed. Passage-money can be paid
here for passages from England. Liberal concessions made
to families. Passengers, cargo, and parcels are booked
through to India, China, and Japan. Cargo and parcels
will not be received after 3 p.m. on the day previous to
sailing. For all information apply at the Company’s
Offices, 247 George-street. A. MACLEAN Acting Agent.
JOHN BEIDGE & 00.,
CIRCULAR QUAY, SUSSEX STREET, &
DARLING HARBOUR,
WO O 3L. BROKERS,
Hides, Tallow, Sheepskins, Kangaroo, Bear and
Opossum Skins, Ac.
CMFL-A-UST S^X.^E3SIMC£33Kr


m
Watches ami Jewellery are like good wives—they are
worth having.
Send for Illustrated Price List. Post Free.
Hi:s GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
(Nearly opposite Railway Station).
Factories: Liverpool and London, England.
£2 pis. English Lex er, Two 't ears’ Guaranteed.
X 3 pis. English Lever, “The Unequalled,” full cap.
£4 English Lever, “The Special,” compensated.
20/- The Unequalled Keyless Watch. -0, ■
Country Residents and Visitors to Sydney call or send
o A. SAUNDERS, 813 George Street (nearly opposite
Railway Station), SYDNEY.
Use Batho's Baking Powder.
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
X
a
T
.
DELISSAs. PHILLIPS
3&tsßAf\R/\CK Street.
Government Advertisements.
Department of Public Works,
Sydney, April 23, 1890.
rheaders for public works and
X SUPPLIES.
For Conditions, see Government Gazette.
TENDERS for the Works, &c., specified below
will be received at this Department until 11 o clock
a.m. on the dates mentioned.
WEDNESDAY, APRIL 30.
Additions to Wharf, Seven Oaks, Macleay River
Construction of Wharf at Byangum, 1 weed Kiver
Construction of Wharf at Mullumbnnby, Bruns-
wide River
Construction of Wharf at Upper Mangrove Creek,
Hawkesbury River . . ,
Construction of Wharf at Cockle Greek, Brisbane
Construction of Strong-room, Lands Office, Armi-
Additions to Hydraulic Engine-house, Bullock
Island, Newcastle
Construction of Cottage, Creek (Newcastle) Sewer.
Cont. No. I—Country Towns Sewerage
Erection of Lockup, Brushgrove, Clarence Kiver.
Bridge, Parramatta River, at O Connell-street,
Parramatta (fresh tenders)
Construction of Jetty, Mortlake, Parramatta
River _ ,
Bridge, Egan’s Creek, at Costigan s, road \\ agga
Wagga to Yerong Creek
Repairs, &c., Newington Asylum
Wharf at Miller’s Forest, Hunter River
Construction of Landing Stage, Menmdie, and
supply of crane for use thereon (fresh tenders)
Construction, &c., of Two Sets Condensers, &c..
Hydraulic Engine-house, Newcastle (fresh
tenders)
Culvert, Diamond Swamp, main Western-road
near Bathurst ,
Bridge, Billabong Creek, roads Denihquin to
Maude Stock Route , ~.
Engineer’s Residence, Balhna, Richmond River
(fresh tenders) . . , ,
Wood Paving Cook’s River Road (fresh tenders)
Erection of Workman’s Cottage at.Walka, Hunter
River District Water Supply
Shelter Sheds, Newington Asylum. (Iresn
tenders) T r
Boilers for Sand-Pump, Dredger No. o
Construction of Timber I unt for Maclean,
Clarence River. (Fresh tenders)
Construction of Two Pump Engines, &c., for
Sand-Pump, Dredgers Nos. 4 and •>
Supply of a “3-ton” Steam Crane for Moruya
River. (French tenders).
WEDNESDAY, MAY 14.
Installation of Electric Light, Bullock Island,
Newcastle ~ , ~ , , v
Bridge, Lachlan River, at I orbes—Contract No.
Supply, &c., of Ironwork ; Contract No. 1,
Erection of Bridge (time extended)
Bridge, Murray River, at Corowa-Cont. No. 1—
Supply of Ironwork. Cont. No. w Erection
of Iron Bridge .
Timber Truss Bridge over Minnamurra River,
road Shellharbour to Kiama. Cont. No. 1—
Supply of Iron Cylinders for I icr. Cont.
No. 2—Erection of Pier and Superstructure
Repairs, &c., Courthouse, Denman
Erection of Post and Telegraph Office, Silverton
(time extended)
Additions, Police-barracks, Hay
Roofing Benevolent Asylum, George-street, J aira-
matta ~ . .
Repairs, &c., Courthouse. Murrumbiirrah
Repairs, &c., Post and Telegraph Othee, Walgett
Horse-shed, Buggy-house, Fencing, &c,, Court-
house, Corowa
Erection of Post and telegraph Orhc
town (fresh tenders).
Erection of Boiler and Engine-house,
Shore Water Supply
Repairs, &c„ Post and Telegraph Office, Berry
Erection of Watchhouse, Clarence-street
Bridge over Wollondilly River at Baw Baw Road,
Goulburn to Pomeroy
Horse and Buggy Shell, &e., Courthouse, him-
berumba . . . ~
Construction of Wharf at bans boiiei, Georges
River „
Extension of Coraki Wharf, Richmond Kiver.
WEDNESDAY, MAY 28,
Repairs, to., at Lighthouse,
Cundle-
North
Scribners have secured the entire Ameri 4
can rights in Stanley’s book.
Mr. ,1. R. Carey, chairman of the Sydney
Daily Telegraph's board of directors, is also
understood to be chairman of the syndicate formed
to acquire the control of the Sydney street-tram-
ways.
It is cabled that Emperor William of Ger-
many is going to buy an African station called
the Congo, now belonging, somehow or other, to
the King of Belgium. The stock consists of
27,000,000 niggers.
Premier Salisbury, it is stated, badly
wants the Marquis of Lome to succeed Governor
Caring ton at Sydney. Here, dear friends, you
see the linger of H.’ Parkes, G.C.M.G.. pointing
to his first Royally-connected Governor-General.
Apropos of the Egeria mutiny, it is to be
noted that the blue-jackets always become very
lively when they get to Auckland. \\ hen the
present writer was last there he saw a sailor take
off his boots in the street and insist on a shoeblack
blackening and polishing his toes. Perhaps its
something in the Auckland ruin.
It is not altogether oft the cards that the
name of Beach lias not been heard the last of
in aquatic championship circles. Beach came to
Sydney this week to attend poor ‘".Jack Lhomp-
son’s funeral, and with him brought his eldest son,
a lad of about 10 years of ago, a big-framed
youngster, the picture of health and strength, and
who promises to make as big a man as his father.
The Choicest Jewellery. ]).ui.ms& Co., King-st. Aiende-
Land at Perth. W.A., the best investment.
I Plans from Intercolonial Investment Co., Ltd.,
j 96 Bathurst-ttreet, Sydney.
HEAD IT ALL.
ST MAY SAVE YOUR LIFE.
Dr. Soule’s American Hop Bit lor a
ARE
THE PUREST AND BEST
Medicine over Mado. They are compounded from
Hops, Bucbu, Mandrake and Dandelion.
« The Oldest, Best, most Renowned,
4 and Valuable Medicines in the
* World, and in addition contain all
4 the best and most effective cura-
‘ tive properties of all other bitters,
4 being the greatest Liver Regu-
‘ lator, BLOOD PURIFIER and
‘ life and health restoring agent on
4 earth.”
They
Dive Hew Life and Vigour to the
and InSrm.
“To Clergymen, Lawyers, Literary
‘Men, Labourers, Ladies, and all
4 those whose sedentary employ-
-4 xnents cause irregularities of the
4 Blood, Stomach, Bowels, or
4 Kidneys, or who require an
4 Appetizer, Tonic, and mild Stimu*
4 lant, these Bitters are invaluable,
4 being highly curative, tome, and
4 stimulating without intoxicating.
4 ‘No matter what your feelings or
4 symptoms are, or what the disease
4 or ailment is, use Hop Bitters.
4 Don’t wait until you arc sick, but
4 if you only feel bad or miserable,
4 use the Bitters at once. It may
4 save your life. Hundreds have
4 been saved by so doing, at a
4 trifling cost.”
Ask your Druggist or Physician.
44 Do not suffer yourself or let your
4 friends suffer, but use and urge
« them to use Dr. Soule’s American
4 Hop Bitters.”
“Remember, Dr. Soule’s American
4 Hop Bitters is no vile, drugged
4 drunken nostrum, but the purest
4 and best Medicine ever male, and
4 no person or family should be with*
4 out it.”
HOP BITTERS MANUFACTURING CO.'
Melbourne, Australia, Rochester, N.Y., U.S.
A., Toronto, London, Antwer.. Paris.
JOHN BRIDGE AND GO’S WEEKLY REPORT
KivoAßOo Skiss.—'We offered 3791 Skins out of a total
of 8931 On Tuesday there was a full attendance ot
£«>?,? iudcomlUlo.. brisk, but »« the **£*%*
~n (i extra-large sizes, last weeks figures weie
scarcely held. Supplies were larger than for many weeks
past and there is every prospect of increase i stock each
week henceforward. We obtained 100 d. to lllti. m
largest sizes ; large, 65d. to 95d.;med.uni, Sid. to 60d.,
small, 23d. to 30d.; very small, 3d. to 2()d.
W.W to «>■;
(sd. to IHtd.
Opossum Mkins.- John Bridge and Co. report
offered 4303—total catalogued, 10,367. A large attei
ferior, 2s. 6d. to 3s. 6d ; rumps, Is. to 3s.
2Z>. O. X..
A’ I) KA r =<)Vi I) STKCI A\t
SCOTCH WHISKY.
DISTILLERIES CO. (Limited).
SHRAGE
C /V
v
H'
m
m
s CIE N TIF 1C
INSTRUMENT MAKER
11) mncquartc Place (opposite Exchange). Sydney.
U
A
- L *
r
TT*
11)
(Late Gunsler’s Cafe)
175 Pitt Street, Syd ne y, ghaU to glnd it they wm g*®
wish Ihoir »w ami tin- I'ui.ik- (i.-m-miiy u, know u,»t tl»-ir H»u«« Mw lAT "''' x ' '''' JAMES 0- MARQUAND, Manager-
t hoir new < usim’ a 1 1 ifil.
Woman Items.
In telling anecdotes of her life recently,
Agnes Booth said : “ In Sydney I danced in all
the operas with Mine. Anna Bishop, My proper
name was Marion Agnes Land Kookes, but my
stage name was ‘Marion Agues.’ The only other
place I plaved in iu Australia was Newcastle, a
seaport and garrison town. There was an amateur
company among the officers, and they were to
play the ‘Lady of Lyons.’ Mrs. Brutone, who
was then Miss J alia Clifford, was to play r auline
and I was to dance the Highland fling, in costume,
between acts. For some reason, Miss Clifford
failed to appear, and I was asked to go on and
read the part. 1 objected, not knowing the part,
but was prevailed on to consent. I really don t
know how to tell this story. Well, I put on the
clothes over my Highland costume, not hav ng
the kilt on, but wearing the stockings and all the
rest. The curtain was an old-fashioned one,
which rolled up. As it rolled up, I was caught m
it and rolled up, too, and there I was suspended,
with the audience having a fine view of my Scotch
stockings. For a long time I had to hold the
book before ray face before I could conquer my
blushes. ”
* * *
A well-known lady writer is tired of tenors.
“ You can be as shocked as you please, but it is
true —I am tired of tenors ;I am sick of their
horrid little mincing walk and their affected ways.
Why can’t they be manly ? But they never are.
They are just sweet-voiced, and womanish and
insipid. And they never, no never, can act.
They have just two gestures ; one is where they
take the soprano by the hand and they both rush
to the footlights He seizes her left hand, pulls
her face near his, looks away over the top ot her
head into the highest box and grins idiotically.
I suppose lie calls it smiling. 1 call it grinning .
His other gesture is where he is singing alone.
He stands stock still and sings away without
moving a muscle till he goes to strike his high
note. Then he takes two little lady-like steps,
reaches out his left hand with the palm towards
the audience as though he were grasping for Ins
high C puts the other on Ins heart, and grins
again. And then that little toddling, affected
gait. It’s no use, I’m tired of him.” And she
wants someone to write an opera, where the
baritone, usually a handsome fellow with oceans
of go, gets a big show in the love-making business.
Lovely woman in the
hands of the tenor, is but
as clay in the potter's
hands.
* * *
A woman under
twenty or ox er fifty can
wear black well. Between
those limits, she should
avoid it. Women wear
it, thinking it makes the
fkin look white. A
woman has a black even-
ing gown. Sbe looks at
her neck and bosom, at
her arms above her black
gloves, and thinks how
fair and white they look.
Very true. But at the
same time, every line and
w'rinkle in her face is
accentuated. Let her
beware of black.
A woman thus
writes: “An idea that
seems to have permeated
thoroughly through the
masculine world is that
women are vainer than
men. Now there is not
a word of truth in this.
No woman ever lingered
with such loving delight
before a looking-glass as will a man with the least
pretension to beauty.” This is not borne out
remarks a critic, by the fact that clubs frequented
exclusively by men are nearly always destitute of
mirrors.
# # *
Upon the conclusion of a marriage in an
English church, the bridegroom signed the register
with his X mark. The pretty young bride did
the same ; and then, turning to a young lady who
had known her as the best scholar in the school,
whispered to her, while love and admiration shone
in her eyes : “ He is a dear fellow, miss, but he
cannot write. He is going to learn from me, and
I would not shame him for the world."’
# * *
“ I don’t feel cold at all in evening dress,
says a Xew York belle, “just before dressing. I
bathe my neck, aims and shoulders in glycerine
and rose-water, and after drying with a coarse
towel, I have my maid rub me down with alcohol.
T don’t need this at all, but I do it to please papa.
I think, however, it is a good idea, for my flesh
never gets goosey, and this is my second season,
and I haven’t had a cold yet. Then 1 always
wear a very warm wrap in the carriage, and when
I get home I take a warm bath and go to bed.”
# * *
“ To wear silk stockings and be able to
afford a lavish use of rose-water in my bath —that
is my idea of luxury !” said a little woman the
other day, pausing before a window where silk
stockings were strung in dazzling, rainbow-
coloured lines. Look, sigh, apd pass on, little
woman, if you are not rich. Silk stockings are as
far beyond your reach as the fruit which nodded
above Tantalus. It is easy enough, if you have a
moderately well-filled purse, to take rose-navoui ed
baths, for the cost is but trifling ; but silk stock-
ings are the most extravagant things in a woman s
outfit, The so f ter the silk and the finer the web,
the sooner holes and shapelessness; and when
once the foot is worn, the remaining lengthy and
perfectly good leg of the silken hose is useless—
except, perhaps, as a powder-rag. Black holds
its own still, either of the solid colour or with pink
or yellow toes. Those in drawn work of exqui-
sitely delicate patterns are very expensive. AIL
the shades of bronze, heliotrope, and rose in
finished, lustrous silk are limp and sleek as snakes,
and fall into bright folds with the crunch peculiar
to pure silk. They are very expensive. A pair ot
delicate salmon pink, with a black-pointed pat
tern to show above the shoe-top, were 375. ; a yel-
low pair, the instep covered with tiny black-and-
white stars, were 30s. And one m silvery grey,
the threads drawn in alternate broad and narrow
stripes, for the same price. All of these were of
extraordinary length.
* * *
In the United States there are 42 causes
for divorce including-failure of husband to pro-
vide for wife, membership of a religious sect who
believe marriage to be sinful, indignities rendering
cohabitation intolerable or life burdensome, ejec-
tion from bed and board, habitual indulgence in
violent fits of “temper,” neglect of duty, habitual
drunkenness, insanity, incurable mama public
defamation, and any other causes deemed by the
Court to be sufficient. In all the American States
provision is made for the grant of alimony to
children and wife.
# * *
In an English theatre, recently, the orches-
tra between the acts was playing very loudly, and
two ladies, in a front row, were endeavouring to
converse at the same time. They had to raise
their voices considerably, and, as the orchestra
suddenly reached a low passage, the voice of one
of the ladies became cruelly distinct, just as she
remarked : “ I wear silk underclothes.”
* * *
Pearls have been rising in value so long,
and threaten to rise so steadily, that they may
soon become the costliest, as they have long been
the most elegant, ornaments of a beautiful woman.
“THE BULLETIN” FEDERATION PUZZLE.
Add to the five colonies three more, now demanding separation : add
also the name of an inn, putting one letter in each new colony, and you
have the future of Australia.
Many a jewel is fifty times as effective ; the ruby
is richer in color, the diamond is brighter, gold
and silver are more plastic. The pearl has but its
mild satin skin, like an angel's shoulder, its
rounded curves; yet its shy, moony lustre seems
to have a more permanent hold over a dainty
fancy than many a more vivid and more robust
material. A necklet of fine pearls remains a fax
more refined Jind dn/iuty ornament than one of
brilliants.
* * *
The latest device of girlhood is a fancy
for stuffing pillows with their old love-letters.
There is one thing about the contents of these pil-
lows that can be depended upon with a marked
degree of certainty—they are sure to be soft.
A CURIOUS OLD LAW.
Thk State Legislature of Massachusetts in the
year 178!) passed a law that all brewers who make
yearly more than one hundred barrels of beer,
should be free from taxes and duties for five years.
In 1888 the Anheuser Busch Brewing Association
of St. Louis the brewers of the famous St. Louis
Lager Beer, sold 510,313 barrels of beer, thus
leaving all competitors behind in the dim distance.
FOR LA GRIPPE (INFLUENZA)
And all colds and bronchial affections the best
remedy is Bosisto’s Original Eucalyptus Oil. In-
ferior oils are bottled to resemble Bosistos.
Buyers should see that they get Bosisto’s oil, with
registered “Parrot” brand on yellow label across
the cork. Accept no other, and avoid disappoint-
ment.
ENCOURAGE NATIVE INDUSTRY
Ye plodding sons of honest toil,
Ne’er favoured by Dame Fortune’s wheel,
Prove worthy of your native soil—
Use Pkmel'l’s Patent Golden Meal.
“ A little American Hop bitters saves big:
doctor’s bills and long sickness.
ALWAYS AHEAD.
With it none other can compare,
None other dare compete,
For Pkmkll’s Flour is everywhere
Known to be good and sweet.
Sir George Elliot, M.P., English mil-
lionaire, colliery-owner, &c., is sued for immense
damages for the seduction of a poor innocent
ballet-girl! and he is only 75, but, of course, her
age is unknown. Elliot was Disraeli’s closest
friend, and yet had worked up from being a pitman
in a colliery —and the end of all is that he is
hypnotised by a leg-slinger. Like most working
men who rise from the ranks, Elliot was the
bitterest foe of his das'.


Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
Ladies’ Silver Watches, 35s. Dahms & Co., King-street
Arcade.
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
Building Sites, City of Perth, W.A. Plans
Intercolonial Investment Co., Limited, 96 Bathurst-
street, Sydney.
Old-fashioned Jewellery modernised to perfection. De-
signs free. Dahms and Co., King-street Arcade.
Ladies’ Silver Watches, 35s. Dahms & Co., King-street
Arcade.
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
Medical
\J
-7^^.
tt
•. ■V.fc.'i.Vi
?? ; •.V
m
xti'
o
@3^
Vi’
<vU»
Cod Bless the Duke of Argyle”
The most distressing forms of itching and inflam-
matory diseases of the skin and scalp are instantly
relieved and permanently cured by the Cuticuea
Remedies, when all others fail. ...
Cuticuea, the Great Skin Cure, and Cuticuea
Soap, an exquisite Skin Bcautifier, prepared from
it, externally, and Cuticuea Resolvent, the new
Blood Purifier, internally, cure every form of tor-
turing, disfiguring, itching, scaly and pimply dis-
eases of the skin, scalp and blood, with loss of
hair, from infancy to old age.
I have been cured of a most unbearable itching
skin disease by the Cuticuea- Remedies. They
have enabled me to escape years of suffering.
You may use my name as a reference, and any one
who wants to know about my case may write me,
inclosing stamp. W. B. BROOKS,
47 Grove Street, Providence, R. I.
I am a canvasser, and one year ago I was badly
afflicted with salt rheum, so that I was unable to
walk. I tried the Cuticuea Remedies, and they
entirely cured me. F. E. PERRY, Rome, N. Y.
Sold everywhere. Price, Cuticuea, 50c. , Soap,
25c.; Resolvent, $l. Prepared by the Pottee
Deug and Chemical Co., Boston, Mass.
4®=- Send for “How to Cure Skin Diseases,” 64
pages, 50 illustrations, and 100 testimonials.
piwt
jPLES, blackheads, red ; rough, chapped and
1 oily skin prevented by Cuticdra Soap.
Two years ago I was attacked with eczema. I
cannot tell you what I suffered. I was the most for-
lorn spectacle you ever saw Charles Kennedy, of
this place, showed me your pamphlet on skin dis-
eases, and among them I found the description
suitable to my case. I bought the Cuticuea
Remedies. I took seven bottles, with the Cuti-
cuea and Soap, and the result is a permanent
cure. I thought I would wait and see if it would
come back, but it has proved all you said it would
do, so I will say G-od blest you and yours.
THOS. L. ti R.. V, Leavcrtown, Ohio.
I, John J. Case, D. D. S., having practised den-
tistry in this country for thirty-live years, and being
well known to thousands hereabouts, with a view
to help any who are afflicted as I have been for the
past twelve years, testify that the Cuticuea Rem-
edies cured me of Psoriasis, or Scaly Skin n
eight days, after the doctors with whom I had con-
sulted gave me no heljr or encouragement.
Newton, N. J. JOHN J. CASE, D. D. s.
The Cuticuea Remedies have permanent
cured me of dandruff and facial eruptions when ail
other remedies had failed. For nine months my
head has been entirely free from the slightest signs
of dandruff, and my skin is as clear as when I was
a boy. LOU THOMPSON, New Britain, Conn.
HANDS
Soft, white, and free from chaps and
redness, by using Cuticuea Soap.
Address: E, TOWNS & CO., SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Great Medical Reform!
Consult (FREE) HERR RASBMUBBEN, the Celebrated Danish Herbalist,
Expert Specialist in all Private Complaints, Barrenness and Nervous Diseases.
DENMARK
m
k
%
\l
%
%
\
't
\
<Tr.
%
El
s
E
s
I
0
s
T
V
I
I
A
L
I
T
If
00
# tH
fss
IjC^
p
0i
isr
f
•p^CE
f
Restores
ƒ
ITfIUIY
A Guaranteed Cure
for
Nervous Debility and
Lost Vitality.
225. 6d. per Course.
Smaller Box .'is. cd.
Only Herbalist in Australia
That has received “Gold Medal” for Great Cures Performed, and is Honourably Mentioned I in the “Centennial History of New South Waies
for Great Herbal Discoveries ; and who can prove that he has CURED OVER 20,000 i AiiEJN 10.
Sole Proprietor and Discoverer of the Celebrated
DEKTMAR.K VITALITY PILLS, Registered
Which have been the means of Curing so many Thousands of Sufferers from Nervous Debility, Lost Vitality, Errors, Weakness, Despondency,
Impure Blood. 225. 6d. per Course ; Smaller Box, os. bd.
G-eiauine Testimonials.
o
To HERE RASSMUSSEN.—Dear Sir,—This is to certify that you
cured me of a very serious blood disease, after many doctors had
failed. - JOHN REYNOLDS, Chappel-street, Leichhardt, Sydney.
To HERR RASSMUSSEN, the celebrated Danish Herbalist.—Dear
Benefactor,—l have much pleasure to inform the public that you
cured my w'fe of an internal complaint of a very serious nature, after
all the doctors had given her up.—ARCHIBALD MACFARLANE,
Eden Cottage, Barney-street, Armidaie.
To HERR RASSMUSSEN, Specialist in Nervous Diseases. Dear
Sir,—l hereby thank you for the great cure you performed on me for
a very complicated nervous affection, and I shall always recommend
you to sufferers from Nervous Debility. PHILLIP STEAD, 54 Parra-
raatta-road, Annandale, Sydney.
To HERR RASSMUSSEN, Danish Herbalist. Dear Sir and Bene-
factor,—lt gives me great pleasure to testify to your wonderful skill
in the treatment of Disease. You cured me of a terrible complaint
after the doctors gave me up, and although it is four years since, I am
as well as ever. I shall recommend you to all. —Yours, gratefully, A.
RAMSDEN, Great Western Coffee Palace, Custlereagh-street, Sydney.
To HERR RASSMUSSEN, Specialist in Nervous Diseases.—Dear
Sir, —I hereby certify that I have been under your skilful treatment
for a very obstinate case of nervous debility, and that you cured me
with one course of your Vitality Pills.—l), M'NEILL, Hornsby
Junction, N.S.W.
1
Opinions of fixe Press.
o
It is a well-known fact that HERR RASSMUSSEN, the Celebrated
Danish Herbalist, has performed many great cures during the past few
years, as his numerous testimonials will prove.—Sydney Bulletin.
HERR RASSMUSSEN.—We have been shown some excellent Testi-
monials of the great cures performed by Herr Rassmussen, the cele-
brated Danish Herbalist.— Australian Star.
HERR RASSMUSSEN has now been established in the colonies
for 10 years.— Sunday Times, April 28, 1888.
HERR RASSMUSSEN has become a celebrity in the curing of all
diseases of the nervous system. His name has become a wonder
throughout the Southern Hemisphere. He was presented with a Gold
Medaffor some of his miraculous cures.— Balmain Leader, May 12,1888.
HERR RASSMUSSEN.—The remarkable cures which he has effected
are pretty generally known.— Balmain Observer, April 28,1888.
We are perpetually receiving letters from HERR RASSMUSSEN’S
cured patients requesting us to make known to the public the wonder-
ful medical skill this remarkable man possesses, and he has just been
presented with a Gold Medal from several of his cured patients.
1 —Sydney Weekly News, May 2C, 1887.
Herr Rassmussen’s Herbal Remedies. (REGISTERED.)
DENMARK VITALITY PlLLS.—Guaranteed to cure Nervous Debility, Lost Vitality, Errors of Youth and Despondency. Price, 225. Od. per full course ; small box, ss. (Id.
DENMARK FEMALE RESTORER PlLLS.—Guaranteed to cure all complaints peculiar to Females, Irregularities, and eradicates complaints which cause barrenness.
Price, 225. Od. per course ; small box, ss. od,
LOCK CURE PlLLS.—Guaranteed to Cure all diseases of the blood, discharges, sores, and strictures. Price, 225. Od. per course ; small box, ss. 6d.
CONSULTATION AND ADVICE FREE.
All the above remedies are made of PURE HERBS, and are forwarded unobserved. A valuable treatise on Nervous Debdity, Private Complaints, and Barrenness, sent
free on receipt of 4d stamped addressed envelope. Consultation personally or by post, free. Patients are examined with the aid of the Microscope.
Address ; - Herr RASSMUSSEN the Danish Herbalist
Corner Qordon-atreet & Park-road, Paddington, Sydney.
TRAMS—Take Paddington Tram to Paddington Tram Waiting-room.
„/DENMARK-,. ■
&
%
%
\%
%
%
\t
■A
I
%
%
f
R
E
s
T
0
R
fe
,S
I
0
s
I
V
I
T
A
Ml#
fH#
V
$
t &
#
F
#
ƒ
f
Restores ,
v
ITALITY
A Guaranteed Cure
for
.Nervous Dbbtltty and
Lost Vitality.
-.is. fid. per Course.
Smaller Box ss. fid.
“ Slowly but surely Cairns forges her way
to the front ranks pf civilisation.” “Yes,” says
the Port Douglas (the rival port) paper, “ Cairns
foes ahead in forgery.” At least, this is what the
>ort Douglas paper ought to say. It was the
kind of thing we used to say of Port Douglas
when we lived at Cairns.
We have received a little pamphlet, price
3d., written and published by S. A. Rosa, a
Melbourne Socialist, entitled “ Social Democracy,
Explained and Defended.” Though the work
scarcely carries out the ambitious promise of the
title, yet there is much in it that may be read
with profit by the student of social problems.
Cardinal Gibbons, of Baltimore (U.S.),
declares that not only should murderers be hanged
by way of punishment for’ their crime, but that
the judicial killing should be accomplished as
quickly after the illegal slaying as possible.
These are the utterances that show how far the
morality of the churches lags behind that of the
age, how little the teachings of Christians re-
semble those of their reputed Master.
One of the men who recently took their
M.A. degree, at Sydney University, was W.
Hessel Hall, Wesleyan Minister, of Adelong,
N.S. Wales. Hall is a Freetrader and a Georgite,
but he might be worse—he might be a man with-
out any other ideas than some cribbed from
Wesley’s “ Sermons ” and Watson’s “Theology,”
and so on. This affords us a chance to remark
that in spite of all their high-falutin’ and speech-
day gurgles about the “higher education,” the
Wesleyans never encourage a man intended for
the Ministry to go through his University course,
and when a “probationer” shows a desire and a
capacity to go a stage beyond “ matriculation ” he
is invariably shunted off to some country circuit
at a distance from lectures and classes, and where
the cross-country work will drain a man’s sap, and
leave him next to nothing in the way of mental
energy to direct into the channels of University
reading. This attitude of the Church authorities
is a lingering of the old belief of the “fathers ” of
the denomination that “culture is carnal.” The
older preachers, who would never have gone for a
University training if they had had the best of
shows, hold that a man’s energies and talents,
during the educative period, are better de-
voted to the study of his business—in other
words, of Church doctrine and polity—and
“ the spirit will attend to the rest !” Owing to
this action many a young preacher’s University
aspirations are nipped in the bud, or, if he retains
grit enough to go through, he will only gain his
degrees long after the average age when they are
won. This was the case with Editor Fitchett,
who earned his B.A. at Melbourne seven or ten
years later than he could have done had the
“Fathers” not frowned upon his college am-
bitions. So with John Cowperthwaite, originally
a working stonemason, who matriculated at Mel-
bourne fifteen years ago, but was unable to go up
for his B.A. exam, till last year, when he went
through easily. Therefore and for which reasons,
and in accordance with the premises hereof, The
Bulletin claps its hands when it observes the
name of a Wesleyan minister in a ’Varsity list.
The little fact reveals an element of pluck -cum.
culture too seldom found pinned to a white choker.
A little greengrocery-woman was brought
before the Brunswick beaks last week for the hor-
rible crime of Sabbath-selling a bottle of lemonade
to a tired boy, whose parents had been dragging
him about in the sun for three hours. Case dis-
missed. Magistrates said the lowest fine was £5,
and really they couldn’t. The Mawworros who
make and set in motion such laws would not give
a pannikin of water to the man who fell among
thieves.
Apropos of rich and miserly beggarmen.
An old vagrant was arrested at St. Kilda (Melb.),
the other day, charged with habitually begging.
He'was a glorious tatterdemalion, and the “earth-
hunger ” of his skin had apparently been amply
satisfied. You could have driven a subsoil-plough
over his fleshy acreage without scarifying his
epidermis. He was seasoned to drought also,
and whatever the sentiments of his thorax, no
irrigation-trust lorded it over his cuticle. The
dirty, patched shreds of sacking and stalactites
of soogee-baggery that constituted his garments
would almost have been repudiated by a rag-and-
bone-mill, and his odour was as loud as a book-
maker’s sporting suit. Nevertheless, the police
were compelled to perform their search-duty into
his person and surroundings when they got him
into the lockup. A scrutiny into his duds was re-
warded by —nothing, not even an I.O.U. (Had
you that time.)
Hymn sung by the Sunday-school children
of Mandalay, capital of the newly-burgled province
of Burmah, on the occasion of the visit of that
ridiculous person Prince Albert Victor of
Wales:—
Omen of Victory ! Light of the sun ! Come, let us gaze at
the rising sun !
He travels over the whole earth, and at his coming in all
the land there is peace !
His wisdom is as a thousand rays of the sun, and subdues
the whole earth !
All his enemies fall before his victorious drums, and there
is peace !
Ruler of armies, at his coming land and water trembled.
Destined is he to greater glory.
The stroke of his engines makes the ocean to tremble,
By his spell distance disappears, and by his will he
reaches his goal in a moment in the railway ;
At the sound of his trumpet the hearts of his enemies
tremble ! May their escape be difficult!
The glory of the Royal grandson is as the son and fire !
Most honoured are we sweet little maids, in that a Prince
has visited this land in our day, who is heir to the
throne ; before whom the whole world trembles, and
whose glory is conterminous with the earth !
The thund’rous power and ulory of the Royal grandson is
able to bring a hundred sovereigns into submission !
Unequalled is he with his moon-like face, made for the
worship of maidens from the four quarters of the
earth '
Mirror of his grandmother, and surrounded by his army,
we maids reverence him in this assembly as our
highest honour I
May the cold hurt him not in this month, when the Royal
flowers bloom and the heavy dews fall!
“Moon-like face” is excellent, and in point of
sarcasm it would be hard to beat “ Mirror of his
Grandmother,” for Albert Victor is as close-fisted
as they make ’em.
Macaulay says, Dr. Johnson frequently
offended more senses than one. The Doctor did
not use McDonald’s Perfect Nail Trimmer and
Cleaner. All chemists. Price one shilling.
Bona-Fide announcement. Highest cash price
given for all kinds of gent’s left off clothing.
Dress-suits for sale or hire. Letters promptly
attended to by QUITTENTON BROS., Ill
Russell street, MELBOURNE. {New number,
163.)


Business Announcements.
TURPIN & BRIAN,
Wholesale ami Family Grocers,
616 George Street, Sydney,
ARE
—REMOvma —
To those Spacious Premises formerly occupied
by R. S. TIGHE, Wholesale Grocer,
623 GEORGE STREET
SYDNEY.
LOOK OUT FOR FUTURE ISSUES.
|3P“ NOTE THE ADDRESS;
623—George Street—623
Brickfield Hill, SYDNEY.
(Two Doors from Lawler’s.)
-THE-
Fresh Food & |ce (X
LIMITED,
HARBOUR STREET,
SYDNEY,
Are evidently determined to go ahead They are
now supplying Customers who take a Quart op
Milk and Over per Day at
THREEPENCE PER QUART!
Ttiis appears very uxmderfid, but it is
quite true.
pr Weekly Accounts.
A. BOWMAN’S
LONDON MADE
Porpoise Hide Boots
Are Reduced from 30s. to 21s.
249 PITT ST., SYDNEY, Near Tattersall's.
Porpoise Hide Wears Twice as Long
as any other Leather.
They are noted all over London,
Birmingham and Liverpool.
London Fas Lions,
AND
Fresh Goods Every Fortnight.
Trade Supplied Wholesale at a Great Advantage.
lT.\
mm
ROSE’S
\
$
*£o
ym/A
ft
&
a
o
m
Lem
!8
ES/T
fpHIS valuable Lotion is guaranteed to cure SWELLING
i- and SANDY BLIGHT, INFLAMED EYES and LIDS,
DIMNESS OF SIGHT, &c. It will be found very bene-
ficial and cooling to those who have weak eyes, or whose
work compels them to strain their eyes. Highly
recommended by the leading Oculists.
Manufactured only by the Proprietor,
H. -A- ROSE
Dispensing and Manufacturing Chemist^
531 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Wholesale by the Proprietor and all Wholesale Houses.
Established 1858. By Post 3s. 6d.
tJT Manufacturer of Dr. SOUTHAN’S GOUT and
RHEUMATIC PILLS.
ows
‘■EMBROCATION
\f%QlO f
'\EV E RY X WH ERE
m
Business Announcements.
O^RTs
o
MON
A
bqnM
r .: ’
■¥
a
a
'-■ “'I
■
-ifi.
ill
®2!
i®
ROBERTS & 0 0
—W HOLESALE-
lmporters* Iron and Machinery Merchants*
HAY AND ENGINE STREETS SYDNEY,
Head Office: 85 Graceclmrch Street, London, E.C.
IMPORTERS OF
Railway Sc Bridge Contractors’
Plumbers'
Squatters’
Requirements
IN
Great Variety.
IMPORTERS OF
Engineers’ and Blacksmiths’
Couchbuilders’
Mining
AGENTS FOR:
Korting’s Gas Engines —The best and cheapest yet made. Automatic self-governing, thus saving cost of gas.
Braddock’s Water and Gas Meters and Gas Lamps. Reading Iron Works Universal (Split) Pulley Wheels.
Howe’s Platform and Counter Weighing Machines and Weighbridges.
s
m
0.
0
Guinness’ Extra Stout,
FIRST QUALITY.
Bass* Pale A le,
FIRST QUALITY.
Sole Purveyors to the
Colonial & Indian Exhibition,
London,
(By Special Appointment).
Wholesale Agents Balchin, Johnston & Co., Sydney.
A for Kupper’s Elberfeld Lager
(Specially Brewed for Australia). Absolutely Free from Sediment.
ALLAN A. MARSHALL & CO.,
Engineers, Coppersmiths, Brass and Belt. Founders,
Finishers, Plumbers, Ship & General Smiths,
Gasfitters, Art & Mediaeval Metal Worker
ROLLER SKATES (any make) with BRASS or WOODEN WHEELS.
Verity’s Gas Fires, Heaters and Ventilators at greatly Reduced Prices —11,000 Fires already in use
Importers and Manufacturers of Diving Gear, Yacht and Boat Work of every description in
Iron or Brass, Ships’ Single and Double Action Valve Closets, Fire Hydrants, Hose and all appliance t
Bon Accord Works, 9 Macquarie Place, Sydney.
MEDICAL REFORM.
&
i
v£
/ep7 &£
T
7
o ,
yy ar^Vc^
a^yc/sic^y
mHEHE exists a crying need for
the medical profession to stay
the quackery which is so rampant
in these colonies Men having no
medical qualifications nor aptitude
for the treatment of diseases, still
advertise with impunity as doctors;
and guarantee to do what they know
they are incapable of doing, and
thus deceive the public who are
caught by their specious and lying
adveitisements, as is amply testified
by reading the exposures in the
Daily Telegraph from August 3
to 11, 1887.
A chief cause of this state of things
is that medical men from mistaken
notions of professional decorum,
and because they consider it infra
dig, refrain from entering the field
against these quacks. So long as this prudery exists so long will this canker consume our youth. At the risk, how-
ever, of professional opprobrium I have decided to throw aside this false delicacy, and avow my sympathy with, and
readiness to treat such affections, in the hope of saving the young of both sexes from the ruin of health and mind
which consulting these quacks ensures, not to mention the ruin of their pockets.
A patient writes to me: “ I am in such a miserable state I would pay you what I could afford for a lifetime, if
you could possibly be the means of letting me know what health is, and perhaps saving me from suicide which seems
to be my only release if this appeal fails. Kindly and humanely do not allow it to be in vain, and you will never regret
it. I have been victimised by a person calling himself a ‘ doctor.’ My father (of course I did not let him know the
nature of my ailment) paid this person £7 75., all for nothing, for which he said he would guarantee a cure in three
months.” Now, if qualified medical men would advertise in such a way as to bring their names before these sufferers,
and convince them of their sympathy, cases like the above which unfortunately are of daily occurrence, would not
occur: groundless fears would not be excited, and where disease exists it would be safely and permanently cured. I
am a legally and highly qualified practitioner, and have for over 20 years devoted especial study to chronic, nervous
and special diseases of .men and women, and I am therefore justified in guaranteeing a cure in all cases amenable to
treatment.
Sufferers from impaired vitality, or nervousness, should read my book on “Nervous Debility,” free by post for
Is., where they will find much useful information and directions for self-cure. Those wishing a farther insight should
read my work on the “ Male Generative Function in Health and Disease,” free by post for 2s. 6d.
Consultation by Letter ... £l.
Dr. ALEX. PATERSON,
A M., M.D., F.R.C.S., Ed., M.R.C.S., End.,
157 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY.
Federated Squatters
-AND—
Farmers’ Co-Operative Association of Australasia, Limited,
CHEaCTJUL-A-IR, Q.TJ.A.Y, SYIDIETIETr..
WOOL and PRODUCE BROKERS, STOCK and STATION AGENTS.
Advances Made and Deposits Received at Current Rates. Correspondence Invited,
Medical.
& KRUPP
CmnfS&m-
tf'i
on
£\V
I " V
>5
vv\
yy
ƒ
1}
ir so,
DON’T MISS THIS!
What everyone says is bound to be true, and young
and old, rich and poor, physicians who recommend, ana
patients who try
The Krupp Galvanic Chain Belt,
Ail agree in praising that most scientific of Electro
Therapeutical Appliances. For Rheumatism it is un-
rivalled. Lumbago at once succumbs to its power. The
Nervous are strengthened and the Debilitated restored to
perfect health and vigour. In short, the appliance is an
unfailing cure for all Nervous, Sexual, or Chronic Diseases,
and is GUARANTEED to ABSOLUTELY CURE, com-
pletely and lastingly, the following complaints
Dyspepsia, Neuralgia, Pains in the Back and Chest,
Lumbago, Catarrh, Rheumatism, Dumb Ague,
Nervous Debility, Paralysis, Kidney Complaint,
Spinal Disease, Female Weakness, Diseases of the
Liver, Impotence, Seminal Weakness, Diabetes,
Sciatica, Atrophy, Gout, Indigestion, Asthma, Piles,
Epilepsy Spermatorrhcea, Specks before the Eyes,
Excessive Heart Palpitation, Defective Memory.
Au Unfailing Cure For Varicocele.
It is a PORTABLE BODY BATTERY, and contains
special appliances for both sexes; therefore, why waste
your money and health by procuring and taking USELESS
DRUGS? Electricity, when properly applied, is acknow-
ledged by all leading and unprejudiced physicians to be
the only safe and radical cure for Nervous and Sexual
Diseases, and the thousands of testimonials received by
the Krupp Belt Co. from leading personages throughout
Australasia prove the unquestionable curative properties
of Electricity as applied by theappliance above referred to.
Our confidence in this appliance is so complete, that
we send the Belt out on trial, and guarantee it
to give perfect satisfaction. For full particulars as to
terms, etc., send for our large illustrated treatise, free,
in which these Belts are fully illustrated, the action of
electricity on the nervous system explained, and a lot of
useful information on nervous and sexual diseases given.
This treatise also contains facsimile of testimonials received
from some of our clients who have tried cur Belts. The
originals of these testimonials produced on application.
tcST" The prices of the Krupp Galvanic Chain Belt and
Suspensory are from £l.
Sole Inventor .... Carl Krupp.
Business Manager . . A. W. Courtxey.
Address all communications to the
Krupp Galvanic Chain Belt Co.,
Box 047, G.P.0., Sydney, N.S.W.
Remember—The K.G. Chain Belt cures without medicine,
is easy to wear, is sent on approval, and the first cost is
the only cost.
JNDISFENSAELE JTOJ RADIES
AND ALL PERSONS
With a Delicate Skini
MOUSONS
Cocoa Butter Soap is a real skin-beautifler, and a balm to
young and old alike.
MOUSON & CO., PERFUMERS & TOILET SOAP MANUFACTURERS,
FR AN KFOKT-ON-THE-MAINE,
London: 32 & 33 iiamsf.ll-st., e.c. Paris: 20 rue rad/.iwtll.
Full guarantee for perfect purity is offered by the
sole Manufacturers, Mouson & Co.
JULIUS GOLDSCHMIDT & CO.,
‘231 CLARENCE-ST., SYDNEY,
SOLE AGENTS FOR AUSTRALASIA.
PLOUGH-SHARES,
PLOUGH'SHAEES. PLDU H-LHASE3.
IN EQUITY.
Hornsby v. Hudson.
——
isromo m
TO THK
Paraing Communi 1 j of Hew South W es.
HUDSON BROS., Ltd.,
Are still making the Shares which formed
the subject of this great lawsuit. They
are now branded
DEE
and their quality is better than ever.
HUo
mvv;
Farmers desiious of encouraging
ndustry can obtain these Shares from our
Local Agent.
NOTE—Trial samples free of cost.


Medical.
Sf
lit
I I EUREKA V
LEpTRIC BELTi-v
\ • / >Nx-z.vv?
EL
4m
n
I
a.
in
; t <
z 1;
A NEVER FAILING CURE FOR ALL.
DISEASES OP THE NERVOUS SYSTEM.
Complete with Suspensory Appliances from £l. 0. 0 and
Howards. 'Bris fanStons Electric Magnetic Belt will cure
NERVOUS DEBILITY, Seminal Debility, Impotence,
and all weakness canned by indiscretion. Tains in the
Back, Lumbago, Giddiness, Rheumatism, Kidney and
Bladder complaints, and in fact any disease of the Nervous
Bystem. The currents are steady and constantly felt by
the wearer. It has great improvements over all other
belts, we are willing to furnish those belts on 30 days
trial, and accept payment after they have proved them-
selves what we represent them to be. Those belts are
made for the specific purpose of producing a continuous,
mild, soothing current of electricity through all the weak-
ened parts, restoring them to health and vigorous strength,
even the worst case permanently cured in three months.
It is more convenient to wear than any other Belt.
A Book illustrated, containing full information and testi-
monials from prominent people throughout Australia,
and informing persons how they may obtain these belts
without paying for them until they have proved them eom-
petent to sure any disease of the Nervous System, will be
forwarded to any address on receipt of a 2d stamp for
postage.
Address VOLTAIC BELT COMPANY
Box 916, Q. P. 0., Sydkey.
Dr. James D. Llewellyn,
(registered)
SPECIALIST in
GENITOURINARY DISEASES,
May be CONSULTED at
-3 25 LONSDALE STREET”
(hetween Swanston de Elizabeth Sts J,
Consulting Hours—lo to 2; 7to 9.
Mornings, 10 toll.
Sunday
All Personal Consultation? are peek ; by tetter the
Fee is £l, which is inclusive of medicines.
1801
Tricopteis
THEHAIR
elegant dress
iifig. exquisitely per
fumed removes all
impuVities from the
Scalpyprevepts baldness and gray hair, and
causes the hair do grow Thick, Soft and
‘Beautiful. Infallible v for curing eruptions
iJf the akin, diseases of the glands, muscles
and integuments, and relieving cuts, burns,
bruises, sprains, &c.
Barry s Pearl Creaffl
Imparts to the darkest skin a clear, natural
white, tinged with the faintest rose-blush
It speedily removes-wrinkles. freckles, sun
burn and tan, and mantles the faded cheek
with youthful bloom and beauty,
Barry’s Hair Bye.
Put up i,n two forms, with and without
a preparation Without the preparation,
gradually colors the hair tiny shade desired,
from a hght brown 10 £ black With the
preparation, instantly colors the hair a na-
tural jet black lhe moment ibis applied.
Crt'Utoon-None of these preparations gen-
uine without -the trade mark of Bauclat
& Co , New York, afflked to each bottle.
A BLESSING IN EVERY FAMILY.
OLLOWAY’S PILLS AND OINTMENT.
There is not a country in the civilised world where
thekealhig virtues of thes m grand medialnes have not been
recognised by thousands of sufferers. In all the ordtnarj
ailments of humanity their beneficent action is at onct
recognised, Fn licet directions are supplied for their use
is even- disease. IP YOU SUFFER, TRY THEM. Maim-
fadttwed endy at 76 New oxford-st., London. Par
chasers should look to the Libel on the Boxes and Pots.
If tte address is not 9*36 Oxfowl-strcct, London, they an
spuhteus.
f
LOON 6 SHAN TEA HOUSE
NOW OPEN.
Quong Tart <Sz Oo.’s
EXTENSIVE NEW PREMISES
(Nearly opposite Theatre Royal).
FIRST-CLASS GRILLS,
As well as all kinds of Refrcslunents, may
V obtained from 7.30 a.m. to 11.30 pf.m.
CUP OF DELICIOUS TEA.
ICED DRINKS OF ALL KINDS, &o.
The rooms aw splendidly furnished and
fitted up. In addition to the large and
well - appointed Refreshment Rooms,
gentlemen will find on the Second Floor
Commodious and Comfortable Smoking
and Conversation Rooms, furnished with
Chess, Draughts, Ad., &c.
TO THE LADIES.
On the First Floor will be found Nice
Private Room for Ladies, convenient for
Writing, Reading, &c., also Retiring
Rooms and Lavatory, with both hot and
cold water laid on. Inspection Invited.
Finest Teas imported—Packets |ib. and
upwards supplied. Orders promptly at-
tended to.
137 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
a
u
o
N
G
T
A
R
T
C
O
M
P
A
N
Y
o
N
G
T
A
B
T
&
C
O
F
A
N
Y
Medical.
A WONDERFUL MEDICINE.
Beecham’s Pills
Are universally admitted
to be worth a Guinea
a Box for bilious
and nervous disorders,
suoh as wind and pain in
tiie stomach, sick head-
ache, giddiness, fulness
and swelling after meals,
dizziness, and drowsiness,
cold chills, flushings of
heat, loss of appetite,
shortness of breath, cos-
tiveness, scurvy, blotches
on the skin, disturbed
sleep, frightful dreams,
and all nervous and trem-
bling sensations, &c. The
first dose will give relief
„ „ ,J in twenty minutes. Every
Sufferer is earnestly invited to try one box of these
Pills, and they will he acknowledged to be
PATENT
PILLS.
Worth a Guinea a Box.
For females of all ages these Pills are invaluable,
as a few doses of them carry off all humors, and
bring about all that is required. No female should
be without them. There is no medicine to be found
equal to BEECHAM’S PILLS for removing any
obstruction or Irregularity of the system. If taken ac-
cording to the directions given with each box they will
Soon restore females of all ages to sound and robust
health. This has been proved by thousands who have
tried them, and found the benefits which are ensured by
their use.
For a weak stomach, impaired digestion and all disorders
of the liver, they ant like." MAGIC,” and a few doses will
be found to work wonders upon the most important
organs in the human machine. They strengthen the
whole muscular system, restore the long-lost complexion,
bring back the keen edge of appetite, and arouse into ac-
tion with the ROSEBUD of health the whole physical
energy of the human frame. These are “FACTS” testified
continually by members of all classes of society; and
one of the best guarantees to the nervous and debilitated
is, Beecham’s ITUs have the largest sale of any patent
medicine in the world.
Beecham’s Magic Cough Pills.
As a remedy for Coughs in general, Asthma, Bronchial
Affections, Hoarseness, Shortness ©f Breath, Tightness
and Oppresrion of the Chest, Wheezing, &c., these Pills
stand unrivalled. They are the best ever offered to the
public and will speedily remove that sense of oppression
and difficulty of breathing which nightly deprive the
patient of rest. Let any person give Beeciiam’s Cough
Pills a trial and the most violqpt Cough will in a
short time be removed.
Prepared only and sold wholesale and retail by the pro-
prietor, Thomas Beecham, Chemist, St. Helens, Lancashire,
England,,in boxes at Is. IJd. and 2s. 9d. each.—Sold by
all Druggists and Patent Medicine Dealers everywhere.
N.B.—Pull directions are given with each box.
CONSULT PROFESSOR SELBY,
376 Cleveland Street, Surry Hills, Sydney,
Personally or by letter on Chronic Complaints
of the Nervous System, Diseases of the Urinary
Organs and all Impurities of the Blood. A Positive
Cure in all cases amendable to treatment. Suf-
ferers should read the Professor’s valuable treatise,
sent post free to all who send their address. It
contains Advice on Marriage, worth its weight
in gold.
EPPS’S
GRATEFUL—COMFORTING
COCO A.
Dr. westcott’S amenorrhcea
PILLS for Ladies, when taken for a few
days before, quickly correct all irregularities
from whatever cause arising ; 2s. fld. and 4s. 6d.,
by post 3s. and ss. W. H. SOUL and CO., 190
Pitt-street, Sydney, Agents.
musical.
INGHAM’S
PATENT SCALE INSTRUCTOR
FOR THE—
IPI^^OH^OIR-TIHL
PUPILS can obtain the above at once, and the best
way to illustrate its usefulness to them is to sup-
pose a man to live to be a hundred years old and never
to have seen a Piano, he would, with five minutes’
instruction, be able to play the most difficult Major and
Minor Scales on the instrument.
Miscellaneous.
F a O. MICHOLLS & Co.,
WHOLESALE
Confectioners & Pastrycooks*
City Buildings:
736 G-eorge Street, 736
HATMABKBT.
Steam Works :
317, 619, 621, 539, 541 HARRIS STREET.
Wedding Cakes, See., Made to Order.
WALTEE HOPE,
Genera: Merchant & Commission Agent,
199 SUSSEX STREET, SYDNEY.
C CONSIGNMENTS of ail Produce, Live Stock, etc.,
j received and realised in the best markets. Account
Sales and Proceeds remitted the day after sale. Orders
■-scented for all Goods from Sydney at Lowest Wholesale
Prices
Speciality.- -Pure-bred and Pedigree Stock of all de-
scriptions Bought or Sold on Commission. All communi-
cations referring to Pure-bred Poultry and Eggs for Setting
to be addressed as usual to WALTER HOPE, Bonnyrigg
Prize Poultry Farm, Liverpool, N.S.W.
OJPECIAL NQTICE.--The Sydney Bulletin.
O Tasmanian Edition Publishers, FITZ-
GERALD BROS. Subscription (payable strictly
i advance), Six Shillings and Sixpence per quar-
-1 er, or One Pound per annum.
The Bulletin will be on Sale every Friday at
live Office, George Street, Lannooston, or from the
Phnncrs in the street .
Business Announcements
The bank of new Zealand.
Sydney Branches:
64 PITT STREET, and 538 GEORGE STREET.
Paid-up Capital £1,125,000
The Bank has Agents in all the principal cities
throughout the United States of America and
Canada, and can offer special facilities for dealing
in Bullion, Bills of Exchange, Commercial and
Travellers’ Letters of Credit.
Drafts issued and Bills collected on most favour-
able terms, at rates which can be ascertained on
application.
N. F. GIBLIN, Manager.
- - I 3Q, Tl
BOOT UPPER MANUFACTURER
IMPORTER OF
ENGLISH AND FOREIGN LEATHER,
Elastic Web, Grindery, Ac.,
Wholesale and Retail Leather Merchant
539 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
f/
EVERY
lESCRIPTION
or
HAIR WORK DONE
%
2
%
«/»
'k
%
■
4?
<o
<*:
PRIVATE
ROOM S
FDR UAD
ROYAL ARCADI
MELBOURNE
J 0 SITTERLIM,
FROM PARIS,
Ladies’ Hairdresser. Wigmaker, & Perfumer,
25 SYDNEY ARCADE, SYDNEY.
HISTORICAL AND FANCY HAIRDRESSING A
SPECIALTY.
Manufacturer op All Kinds of Theatrical
and Street Wigs.
Amnionlatetl Quinine,
The most efficient Hair Lotion, to prevent prema-
ture baldness.
Sitterlin's Vegetable Hair-dye,
The only Hair-dye in the colonies to restore Light
Hair to its natural colour. All shades.
Success G-naranteed..
MANUFACTURING HATTERS
GEORGE STREET
S YD N ELY
IMPORTERS OF ALL THE
NEWESTSHAPES.
And at ALBERT STREET, BRISBANE.
(
(0
THE BEST
IN THE WORLD
fiUCH's
INC
'fA
*/
PO
K
-<r^
MANUFACTURED 6V ; r , „
JjMES CHANNOb tSVartovrS f \
<sold. hu aXI SaqcjAjO <? SA>rt***fiero
&
Business Announcements.
rgTIHE THREE GREAT LIGHTS)
The Needles Patent Gas-making Machine;
The Harvey Patent Safety Kerosene Lamp;
And the New Era Portable Gas Lamp.
The Harvey Lamp has been adopted by the
Railway Commissioners for lighting the Sydney
trams. We were awarded the Highest Order of
Merit and Special Mention by experts at the
late Melbourne Exhibition for our lighting
mediums. Over 0000 Harvey Lamps are in use
in this colony, and for all lighting purposes are
giving universal satisfaction. These Lamps can
be seen on one of the North Shore ferry-boats,
and are suitable for all classes of vessels-. The
Inventor offers £2OO to anyone producing as good
a Kerosene Burner.
Patentees for Australasia:
H. T. Smith & Go.,- 494 Kent St, South, Sydney;
14 Arcade, Adelaide, S.A.; Argent Street, Broken Hill;
Parkside Iron Works, Melbourne.
—THE—
Art Furnishing Warehouse.
BEARS,WATSON & CO.,
361 George Street, SYDNEY,
Direct attention to their Magnificent Stock of
Carpets, Floorcloths, Linoleums,
And other Floor Coverings , in the
NEWEST DESIGNS A AUTISTIC 4 01,01 KIN
Art Decorations, Upholstery Work and
Window Draping a Specialite.
All Orders executed hy a Staff of Experienced
Workmen, and Special Attention given to the carry-
ing out of Customers’ wishes with vunctuality and
promptitude.
Hotels.
PEAHLEET’S HOTEL,
SYDNEY, N S.W.,
Opposite the Park, tyynyard Square.
(Under New Management.)
rpHIS for 25 years well-known First-class Central Hotel,
recently thoroughly renovated throughout, has every
comfort and attention of a home. The Cuisine Department
is under competent French supervision. Dining Room
open for Non-Residents. Open-air Recreation Garden.
A well-ventilated Billiard Room adjoining Recreation
Ground (three Alcock’s best Tables), under the manage-
ment of A. Buckingham, late of Empire Hotel. Wines
and Spirits of the very best quality only, and the Finest
and Coolest Bar in Town
HOT AND COLD BATHS.
NIGHT PORTER. Irench
German
Telephone No. 150. Italian
Spoken.
SPECIAL SUITES FOR FAMILIES.
CHAS. HECHT ... Manager.
WSSTEMKT HOTEL,
Warrnambool, Victoria.
THIS old-established arid well-known Family
and Commercial Hotel combines all the
requirements of a First-Class Hotel with home
comforts.
It is in full view of the sea and within a short
distance of the picturesque scenery of the Hopkin’s
River, which affords the finest Rod and Fly Fishing
in the colony.
Arrangements made for the Hire of Rowing and
Fishing .Boats and Fishing Tackle. Bait, etc.,
supplied. B3T Good Shooting in the immediate
neighbourhood.
It is also within Two Minutes’ walk of the Hot
and Cold Sea Water Baths, which are unsur-
passed in the colonies.
t-IF” livery and Letting Stables.
Booking Office for Cobb & Co.’s Coaches. Thos.
Cook & Sons’ Hotel Coupons taken.
GEORGE W. CLARE
Proprietor.
THE GEOEGE HOTEL
(opposite Raihmy Station, near Baths),
St, Kilda, Victoria.
First-class Family & Commercial Hotel.
For particulars, apply to
DE' WIMPOX.B,
PROPRIETOR.
TES OVAL HOTEL,
Esplanade,
ST. KILDA, VICTORIA,
Facing Beach, close to Pier and Baths Ten
minutes from Station.
H. MOONEY .... Proprietor.
LIVERY LETTING STABLES ATTACHED.
Telephone 682.
First-class Accommodation for Visitors
JjONG-’S IMPERIAL HOTEL,
TOOWOOMBA, QUEENSLAND.
Acknowledged the Best Hotel on the Darling
Downs. First-class Accommodation.
Private Suites First Class Sample Rooms
Conveyance Meets Every Train.
JOHN LONG - • Lato of New Zealand,


SHEVILL & CO
Corner Queen Street and Flinders Lane,
MELBOURNE.
a 9
mercantile auctioneers.
Land, and Estate Agents,
It
mm
m
i
A J
Advances made against shipments of Merchandise
and Colonial Produce.
Daily Sales held at their Commodious
New Booms ,
OUTDOO R
Furniture & Land Sales Conducted.
Branch
Offices
32 Chapel St., Prahran.
2 Albert St., Windsor,
Branch
Offices
Cold Medal
St
WALLAGH BROS.’
KTIETW
FURNITURE
WAREHOUSES,
York Street, Wynyard Square, Sydney,
Now supply the General Public as well as the Trade.
10,000 Bedsteads,
From lOs. Oct., "tea £35.
n
HOT aud CO'LD
Seawater Baths,
WARRNA.MBOOb, VICTORIA.
HYGIENIC, + 6FrATIVE.
Corks
SCIATICA, RHEUMATISM,
Nervous & Skin Diseasos.
Testimonials from all 'parts of the
Colonies.
Water direct from Southern Ocean
pumped by gas motor, retaining all
natural qualities ; free from objec-
tions of Bay water. Large., swim-
ming basins for ladies and gentle-
men. MarJjlc plunge baths, hand-
npirtely appointed. Bracing air,
■charming scenery, fishing, shooting,
beautiful drives place VVarrnambooJ
.in the front rank as a sanatorium.
ft
Tla.oyn.aa R-obb,
TOBACCO &. CIGAR IWi PORTER,
27 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY,
(Corner of Pitt Street.)
A large stock of Genuine ilaviuinuSi Cigars, of the
choicest Brands to select from.
Sole Importer of the Celebrated “ Flor do Boiiltc "
Braad of Cigars aud “ Empire Cigarettes.”
Palls Bridge Family Hotel,
Falls Bridge, Melbourne.
Phis magnificent Hotel, containing 50 Double
tnd Single Rooms, is splendidly furnished and
perfectly ventilated.
Set and Cold Plunge and Shower Baths.
Electric Bells. Telephone 1217, Billiards , Ac.
Terms Strictly Moderate.
J. 11. 1)1 KHANT Manager
Late of the South Australian Club Hotel, Adelaide.
Free Fresorip-tioaas
Are to be found in the “Right and Life,’
for the Speedy Cure of Nervous Debility and
Kindred Diseases, &c. A copy of this book vvh.
be sent Free, sealed, for Six Penny Stamps.
Address —
S. WARD & CO., SYDNEY PHARMACY,
76 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
- FRY’S MALTED COCOA
Kaulingtusi Still.
•Vv»
Kuowtei rumps
PARKE & LACY GO.,
MINING & HYDRAULIC ENGINEERS
AND
GENERAL MACHINERY MERCHANTS,
I JSzo. 9 &C., <SzG.
187 & 189 Clarence Street,
SYDNEY, 3XT.S.W.
And SAN FRANCISCO, CALIFORNIA.
Kock Breakers.
m
.
nestinglioiiHC Eiigiiu^
9
LI
ENGINES,
2 to 50 H.P.
BOILERS,
1 to 35 H.P.
STEAM PUMPS
For all purposes.
in mm,
2" to 40" discharge.
HAND PUMPS.
Saw Benches.
Xiatl3.es.
CHILLING mm,
&c., &o.
Hay St., Haymarket,
WINDING ENGINES,
Hauling Engines.
Battery Engines.
Saw-mill Engines.
EIJGINES
KOR.
.
Electric Lighting.
\ r c:li:eal Boilers.
IMitahkr Eoite,
( BOILIKS.
iiiii
IlSiiJi
sssasg
a taw
T"
Wo invito al those requiring Machinery of any kind for any purpose; largo or small, to write for particulars and prices. From the extent of our stock wo tiro generally able to give immediate delivery.
Visitors, whether buyers or not, are always welcome to inspect the magnificent display in our new and extensive Showrooms,
!2 9, 13 X, 133 & 135 HA.Y STREET, HAYMARKET, SYDNEY.
