

AITKEN’S ALE
LIFE BUOY BRAND.
the BEST INT THE MARKET.
DICKENS” WHISKY.
USED BY THE LATE CHARLES DICKENS.
AM» SUPPLIED TO THK S’HIMIIMI. «LI BS I\ SVUVF.v.
Harrison
Attwood., 251 George-st.,
Sydney.
-A.gjeix-fcs iforr* South Wales,
HOTEL,
©treat, ©STOWE'S’-
UN RIVALLED ACCOMMODATION.
IDlcfeson’s Hotel,
“Bulli Pass.” “Look-Out.”
DISTANCE FROM SYDNEY, 42 MILES.
WM. DICKSON
“ Wislilng Well.”
HORSES AND VEHICLES ON HIRE.
33-u.lli-
£ ‘Xjcsca.cl.o3a. Waterfalls.”
EVERY ACCOMMODATION.
Proprietor.
S-iC£4La*
f
BALDWIN DRY AIR REFRIGERATOR,
Beware of the many so-called Dry Air Refrigerators advertised by unscrupulous Manufacturers and Dealers, in tend in o-
to deceive the public and trade upon our reputation. This is the original and celebrated Dry Air Refrigerator, made
famous by its successful competition at the leading Exhibitions in the United States for the past Six Years, known as
the Baldwin Dry Air Refrigerator.
w
HITE MOUNTAIN FREEZERS, ICE MILK CANS, MIXERS,
LEMON SQUE£!ZXms, &c., &c.
Bros. <Sz Big'g',
512 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
c.
Howard’s <oloi»Ut if-l'iirrow Disging
Plough.—(ll,/..0. I.)
Howard's Sluglc-Fnrrow lllg<tiiiir
riougb.—(o.l*)
Tlie Plougli oJT tlie I
PLOUGHING AND HARROWING IN ONE ACT.
Sliare Points only cost 6d., and are Reversible,
Cuaff- Cotters, Horse M rails juul every kind of Agricultural Implements
iztsr STOCK.
8®" Enquirers please quote this paper.
280 s PITT STREET, SYDNEY
(Corner op Prrr. and Bathurst Streets).
:
'M.
C
mu
I
i
W:
—THE-
LONDON & SYDNEY
tzlal
COMPANY.
409— KENT STREET—4O9
(Two doors from Market Street),
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
—IMPORT
I-I IGr X-T-G X. S S IXTDI A XX & CHIXTA
teas"
Packed in 201 b. and 401 b. Packages, and delivered at Is. 6cL, Is. 9d. and 2s per lb
(Carriage Free) to any Railway Station or Port in New South Wales.
A single Package at Wholesale Price. Correspondence invited and. promptly attended to.
The Bulletin
Vol. 11—No. 533.]
[Saturday, May 3, 1890.


TOBACCO
icSS*
is
- a
isi
Wfs
mrS
PS
'r r T*-' HJOCL.
fflura
in
I i
5*3
SJWi
< h (r•;
u HJ
II
TAS?
SR
—=i.j
DiXSOPSONS
Customs Returns.
American Leaf.
Dixson and Sous consumed in 1888, 52,5021b5.
more, and in 1880 (over 44 tons) 08,030 lbs. more
American Leaf than all the rest of New South
Wales put together.
HIXSON’S TOBACCOS having the largest
sale of any in Australia are
*
o
30
J
X
o
V
Povx
SIR ROGER
— ■
Dr. RIDGE’S
FOOD
FOR INFANTS AND INVALIDS
Has an enormous sale in England
and is now being introduced into the
Colonies.
Every Storekeeper should get a supply
as every Wise mother will certainly
use it.
DR RIDGE S ROYAL FOOD MILLS,
LONDON, ENGLAND.
IMJE3S
SAtIN
‘y
KXADIESV
L C HILDBKdS
sSS?
TRUHKStiCaC
tew*
> 00 SI?-
BROWN’S
SATIN
POLISH
—FOB-
LADIES' AND CHILDREN'S
BOOTS AND SHOES.
A warded 'highest honors at
Phila., 187 C Melbourne, ISBO
Berlin, 1877 Frankfort, 1881
Paris, 1878 Anisterd’in 1883
New Orleans, 1884-85, and wherever
exhibited.
Paris niedal on every bottle.
Beware of Imitations.
This Blacking is in liquid form and is applied to shoes
or other articles of leather by means of a sponge, attached
to the cork by a wire, so that the blacking can be used by
anyone without soiling the fingers. No polishing brush
is required. It dries immediately after being applied, and
will not soil the most delicate clothing.
Sold largely in Australia through Commission Merchants
and Dealers.
B. F. BROWN & CO.,
Boston, U.S.A., MTgs.
THE BALLARAT COFFEE PALACE,
Lydiahd Street, Ballarat.
VISITORS to the Golden City will find every
convenience tit the above Establishment.
The Only Coffee Palace in Ballarat.
MODERATE CHARGES.
REID & SONS Proprietors.
ATKINSON’S
ENGLISH PERFUMERY
surpasses all others for its natural
fragrance.
Atkinson’s Renowned
English Lavender Water
md other well-known Perfumes ar
inequalled for their delightful am
lasting odour.
ATKINSON’S
ORIENTAL TOOTH PASTE
Unrivalled for cleansing, beaut if.vie
and preserving the Teeth and Gurus,
Of all Dealers, and of the Manufacturers —
J. & E. ATKINSON,
24, OLD BOND STREET, LONDON.
Trade Mark—“White Hose’T)n“Goldeu
Ljtc,” with Address iu full.
T. LAWLESS, June.,
37 MARKET STREET,
SYDNEY,
NEYEii TRAVEL WITHOUT IT.
WANTED IN EVERT HOUSE.
il
&
FOWLS OROTHER
ANIMALS
EFFECTUALLY DESTROYS;
|a* L NOXIOUS
FLEAS,fj.I ES BEETLES MOSGIU ITOES.
COCKROACHES.A^V. c AND IS
AT THE SAME TIME QUITE
H ARM LES S TO BIRDS OOGI
d
d
-01.0
INTVMS
i#upM6s
Shd STOH£Ki:£pIRS
■■ wKOCtsm-il
FELTON- GRIM WA D E.%fcC < ?
— MELBOURNE.—-
WANTED IN EVERY HOUSE.
Ask for KRUSE’S INSECTICIDE, and Beware
of the Numerous Imitations.
CLARENDON HOTEL, MANLY,
The Brighton of New South Wales.
AT the CLARENDON HOTEL, Banquets, Suppers, Private Dinners, Evening Parties, etc., are
served on the Shortest’ Notice in the Large Dining Hall. Besides having a most recherche
Dinner vou can envoy from the balconies the magnificent view of the sea and surrounding country ;
here also you can have good company, good wines—-in fact, everything- that can possibly make one
om fort able can be found at this really first-class hotel,
r e Hote at One o’clock daily and Sundays. No expense
visitors comfortable and her Hotel the best m the colony.
ra> TrTT.TVtINTSTEK.. Clarexrsioia. Hotel,
Opposite OCEAN BEACH. MANLY
g goertz,
Stock and Share Broker,
FIITAITCIAL
BRISBANE.
Member of the Brisbane Stock Exchange.
68 Hunter Street, and 8 Bligh Street,
SYDNEY.
IF. SHE-OEDEB
LIVERY, BAIT, LET-OUT AND COMMIS-
SION STABLES.
Horses and Yeludes of e.very description for
Sale or Hire; also, good reliable Ladies or Gentle-
men’s Hacks.
THE
Wolseley Sheep-Shearing* Machine.
PASTORALISTS are notified that, to avoid disappointment,
no time should be lost in Booking Orders for next Season.
Agents: J. H. GEDDES & C 0.,
19 PHILLIP STREET, SYDNEY.
Cif AtfT law
V'
6?^
a
D
v(/
. \l/.-V^-
<>:
,
o
o
L
0
PRICES
Mi ldura_
Melbourne
Ren m ar k
ADELA I DE
England
.Victoria.
Chaffey Irrigation Offices, Swanstcn Street.
SouThi Australia.
.Cavendish Chambers, Grenfell Street.
J. f. Mathew VincentJ Chief Commissioner)
Cornwall Buildings, 35 Queen Victoria St,
LONDON E. C-
Troeti«l * C?
PR INCE OF W ALE S’ HOTEL,
S-fc. BCHcia,, Victoria.
Within Five Minutes from STATION, and One Minute from ESPLANADE and BATHS.
MRS. KONG MENG ... ... ... Proprietress.
LEA & PERRINS'
SAUCE,
Purchasers should sec that the Label on every bottle of the original
WORCESTERSHIRE SAUCE >
bears the Signature, thus
a.
Ask for Lea & Perrins’ Sauce, and see Name on Wrapper, Label, Bottle and Stopper.
Wholesale and for Export by the Proprietors, Worcester; Crosse <s' Blackwell, London, sc., sc.
and by Grocers and Oilmen throughout the World.
—Everyone should Read—
Tlie BUIjIjSTIN’S
“HISTORY of BOTANY BAY,
By ARTHUR GrAYLL.
Profusely Illustrated byThe Bulletin's” well-known Artists, L. Hopkins and Phil May.
Price - ONE SHILLING; per Post, Is. 3d*
May be had from Agents, or direct from “ The Bulletin ” Office.
A Vlotorlan • A Beniamin, 321 Little Collins Street East, Melbourne ; Tasmanian: Fitzgerald Brothers, George Street,
V(i > vot 1 J , I 11 mi O IJ i . j I > ■.l


Beale & 00/s New Warehouse.
m
OUR NEW SHOW-ROOMS AND WAREHOUSES:
4813 it 484 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Something New in Sewing Machines !
THE BEALE PATENT MACHINE.
What is there Special about it?
The restless inarch of invention has enabled us
to bring before the public improvements of im-
mense value, to some short account of which we
beg your attention for a few moments. Our call-
ing is to relieve the home-mother of all that may
weary her in sewing, and to make the same
throughout a pleasure. That we have during the
last ten years succeeded in so doing, scores of
thousands will testify. And to-day we are supply-
ing a machine whose range of work is absolutely
complete, transcending the hopes and dreams of
years. The construction and form are such as to
place it altogether above and beyond competition,
and for the truth of which assertions, as of the
following, we humbly request that your own eyes
may be the judges.
THE IMPROVED HIGH ARM. A great
desideratum with ladies has been the raising of the
arm of the machine, so as to allow the goods to be
sewn to pass freely underneath. This had to be
accomplished without increasing the weight of the
machine. In fact, the Beale runs with wonderful
ease and rapidity. It is almost silent, all clicking
sounds having been obviated. As is well-known,
a good test of the finish of any mechanism is its
silence when in rapid motion.
ALAR GER RANGE OF APPLIANGES is
provided than with any other machine. Samples
of work performed upon these we are prepared at
all times to submit, whilst an elaborate Instruction
Book is supplied, which is alone sufficient to
explain their uses and their applicability to every
requirement
NICKEL-PLATING—In our climate the
exposed parts of the machine, and the appliances,
need to be protected from rust. We have, at
considerable expense, added a handsomely nickeled
wheel, nickeled plates, screws, appliances, treadle-
bar and cones, heightening the appearance. These
improvements also tend largely to preserve the
parts. This plating is imperishable
A MUCH LARGER DRAWER has taken the
place of the cramped and clumsy contrivance of
former years. When closed it securely fastens the
cover, and is provided with a look and key.
THE WOODWORK is handsomer than ever,
being always of selected and inlaid Walnut. All
of it has been exposed for weeks in the drying-
room of the Factory to a temperature reaching as
high as 170 degrees ; thus when kept out of damp
and sunshine, it will endure our most trying
climates.
A SELF-THREADING SHUTTLE of solid
steel, saving the trouble of threading by the end
of the cotton. It has an excellent tension, is
strong and simple.
THE BOBIN WINDER is a marvel of in-
genuity, winding and guiding the cotton by itself,
as evenly as upon the real whence it came, and
stopping of its own accord when the bobin is full.
The baby’s tiny clothing, upon which mothers love to
display their choicest handiwork; the hoy’s tweed suit,
the drawing-room carpet, may all be stitched by the won-
derful BEALE Machine. Examples of all kinds of sewing
required in dresses, millinery, underclothing, tailoring and
upholstery will be shown and explained at our offices free
of charge.
With the wonderful BEALE Machine, whether for hand
or foot use, you can hem any width, make double seams
o* (ells, braid, stitch with chenille, Berlin wool or gold
cord and such like for fancy work; you may make a
pretty lace stitch, tuck ever so finely, bind dresses, coats,
or carpets; sew on trimmings without guiding, make
frilling, ruffling, or niching ; quilt, weave your own braid
with any combination of colours, and stitch it on at the
same time; make thick woollen door mats, embroidered
antimacassars, window curtains, and so forth ; you can
easily and rapidly perform the fashionable shirring or
gathering so popular for sleeves, bodies, or skirts of dresses
with an appliance supplied gratis ; lay the small cords in
hoods and stays; do large cording; gather with or without
a band, and generally do all kinds of straight sowing upon
any material whatever. You can darn upon any woven
goods, and do crewel work. You may make button and
eyelet holes, do overcasting, make herring-bone stitch
upon any materials. This work is absolutely unique, and
can only be accomplished upon the BEALE Patent
Machine.
Any of these performances will he show at our shops
at any time. The BEALE Patent makes a lock-stitch
which cannot ravel, yet by a momentary alteration the
sewing can he done so as to rip from cud to end if desired.
This peculiarity is sometimes useful when children’s clothes
are intended to be altered
We have a special word tor husbands : When the daj’s
business is over, and the evening meal is finished, the
wife—and perhaps thesisteror daughter—sits down to her
sewing. With her hands alone she cannot, as aforesaid,
do anything like the whole of the work required. In a
corner of the room is perhaps an old-fashioned machine,
with which she may, by hard driving, occasionally stitch,
with a noise like a sausage-machine, a simple straight
seam ; but that is no great help. She ought to be able to
do ALL the work with it, short of stitching on buttons,
which is a trifle. And we have known some instances
where the lady of the house is anxious to obtain a first-
class machine, that which will he the greatest of all helps
■®“ 6r i but the husband demurs on the score of expense.
Why, it is the only article of the household furnishing
which will ever return you any part of the cost! If the
uwiy will use it, it MUST earn far more than the half-a-
erown a week necessary to purchase it. On one little
garment she will save that sum, so that in addition to in-
ci eased comfort your household expenses will not ho en-
S t H't °ught to he diminished, by the possession of a
BALL PATENT MACHINE. How often do we waste
oney upon really useless knick-knacks, or upon need-
essiy expensive ftrticles and indulgences? The Machine
nonki far more than pay for itself during the time you
e clearing it off, and it will then become your own, earn-
, j 1 ’ saving money as before. Is it not fairly to be
called a PROFITABLE INVESTMENT?
Lash or Easy Terms. Price Lists and Samples ■
Free by Post.
& Company,
48 2 & 484 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
from ouv Branches and Travelers everywhere.
Business Announcements.
u
L
n r
MERCHANT and IMPORTER,
24 Clarence Street
(Corner Margaret St.),
St. James Buildings
(WILLIAM STREET),
MELBOURNE.
IF'lonro.lio.iir 3 s
RELIABLE
Bug-g-ios.
d
Higfh-Glass Bng'gfies, Phaetons,
Wag*g*ous and Harness.
Farm Waggons,
Express Waggons.
CARTS
For One and Two Passengers.
d
dd
sfSt
11111111 l
O'.
K.
wiiinm
5
uj oc
OQ
<
co
kl
o>
n„jjp^
J
V
HHIHHE!)
TRIU M P H
ofThe Good S pirit over Rad.
Used in hospitals throughout the world in preference to the
best French Brandy. TRY IT.
d
68
CLARENCE S*
SYDNEY.
AGENTS
in New South Wales.
YOU SHOULD USE
LARMER’S
CELEBRATED
HEALTH-GIVING
AND
INVIGORATING TQNIG.
It is used and endorsed by all Physicians
lecause it is the best.
It is superior to all other Tonics.
For the Liver, Kidneys and Blood it has
no equal.
It is wonderful as a Flesh Producer,
It is the best remedy for Wasting Diseases
Sick Headaches, Bilious Complaints, Fever,
and Ague, N euralgia, &c.
Price, 2s 6d and ss; By post, Is extra
PRKPARED ONLY BY
CAINS & CO,, Chemists,
78 KING STREET.
Fur Sale by all Chemists
M. W. 4s Co.
NATURAL MINERAL WATERS
aro now Imported in bottles and used In treat-
ment of CHRONIC GASTRIC CATARRH. HYPER-
EMIA of the LIVER, GALL STONES, CHRONIC
CONSTIPATION, DIABETES, RENAL CALCULI,
GOUT, and diseases of the spleen arising from
residence in the tropics or malarious districts.
THE NATURAL
CARLSBAD SPRUDEL- SALT
In small and frequent doses is an efficient
DIURETIC,but as an APE RIENT it should be taken
BEFORE BREAKFAST, in doses of from 1 to 2 tea-
spoonfuls, dissolved in water. To increase the
APERIENT action of the Carlsbad Mineral Water,
a tenspoonful of the Salt, previously dissolved
in water should be added.
SOLE CONSIGNEES for the U.K. and the Colonies
INGRAM & ROYLB, 82, Farrlngdon St., London,
And of all Chemists throughout the World.
The Natural Mineral Waters of
{STATE
c
SPRINGS.)
GRANDE-GRILLE.
-For Affections of the
Liver, Biliary Organs, &c.
CELEBTINS.
-For the Kidneys, Gravel, Gout
Rheumatism, Diabetes, &c.
HOPITAL. — For Stomach Complaints.
HAUTERIYE. —An excellent Table Water,
or ALL CHEMIST* IN AUSTRALASIA.
r 'iK
Susinesa Announcements.
MASON BBOTHSKS,
203 to 2G9 KENT STREET,
SYDNEY,
Have always in Stock tor Sale to the
'lvac'e and Wholesale Riiijerx Only ,
Ironmongery, and
GENERAL HARDWARE
<«lsiss, Chinn and'
E A R T II E N W A R E.
\vjaj:s. bkkrs «d spirits,
AND GENERAL
B UI. E M EECIIAN DISK.
Agents (or
JOHN WALKER and SONS
Old Highland Whisky.
LUCIEN I OUCAULD & CO.’S
Old Brandies.
J. T. G A YEN’S,
Schnapps and Geneva.
A. V. K 1-VIN and SON S’
Edinburgh Rale Ale.
SEND TO
sa; S 3 jkt 3FB. "sr xszxixrcsr,
SCENIC AND PORTRAIT PHOTOGRAPHER,
316 GEOR&E STREET, SYDNEY,
• FOR
Catalogue of the most Complete Series of Vieivs to
he obtained in Australia.
Jenolan Caves, Hawkesbury and Nepean Rivers,
Blue Mountains, Harbour and Coast Views,
Victorian and Now Zealand Views.
Groups of Australian Aboriginals and South Sea
Island Natives, &e., &c.
Medical.
331FiL,
AMERICAN DISPENSARY
3 X 3T 3t;re e t.
P.O. Box 920.
Dr. Speer is a regular Graduated Physician, educated at
Harvard College, U.S. (for confirmation see New Zealand
Gazette, January 21st, 188 C; also New South Wales
Gazette, April 17 th, 18S8). The doctor has devoted 14
years to the study of CHRONIC, NERVOUS, AND
SPECIAL DISEASES. Four of these were in the leading
hospitals of the United States, which enables him to treat
all complaints with excellent results. All applying to
him will receive his honest opinion of their complaints.
No experimenting ;no Mercury used. He will guarantee
a positive cure in every case he undertakes, or forfeit
£2OO. His reason for doing so is this—when there is no
organic disease, and nothing but an inorganic trouble, or,
in other words, a conglomeration of symptoms producing
a certain result, there is no reason why it cannot be re-
moved with the proper remedies, therefore he guarantees.
He wishes it distinctly understood that he does not claim
to perform impossibilities, or to have miraculous power
he claims only to be a skilled and successful physician
thoroughly informed in his speciality—CHßONlC and
SPECIAL DISEASES of MEN and WOMEN, People
residing at a distance can, by explaining their troubles in
detail be treated at home. The course of treatment will
not in any way interfere with their business. Examina-
tion and advice free to all. Charges moderate. H. J.
Speer, M D., 31 York-street, Sydney. Post Office Box,
No. 920. Office hours, 10 a.m. 012 a.m. 2to 4 and 7
to 8 p.m. Sundays from 10 to 11 a.m. only.
V- V. ' v,
m
M
mm*
-p.
. -?
*1 ’JiVS*
V;
> v
’•cru -
T O YOUKTG nVE E 3XT.
DR. FLETCHER’S
TREATISE ON NERVOUS DISEASES, THEIR CAUSE,
SYMPTOMS, TREATMENT. AND CURE.
THE directions contained in this little treatise will be
found of immense benefit to the sufferer; and if these
directions are observed during- the early stages of Nervous
or Sexual Debility, No Medicines will be required, as, by
observing the directions given, (ho patient can Cure Him-
self.
This admirable little treatise is specially written to
show a method of counteracting the evil effects of indis-
cretions in early life—overwork, irregularity in eating or
drinking, &c. It is the result of much study and long
and successful experience in the treatment of diseases,
and contains a fund of useful information to every suf-
ferer from the following complaints, viz.:—Nervous
Debility, Dizziness, Specks before the Eyes, Pains in the
Back, Defective Memory, Loss of AVill Power, Loss of
Energy, Spermatorrhoea, Bashfulness, Discontentedness,
Constipation, Liver and Kidney Derangements, Atrophy,
Impotence, Impure Blood, Foul Taste in Mouth, Palpita-
tion of Heart, Wakefulness, Despondency, Excessive Ner-
vousness, Inability to Marry, Premature Decay, and other
symptoms experienced by nervous sufferers.
All Should Send for this Little Treatise.
If the complaint is of long standing and requires
medicine, Dr. Fletcher will GUARANTEE TO CURE
ANY CASE OF NERVOUS or SEXUAL DEBILITY
with ONE COURSE OP MEDICINES LASTING FIVE
WEEKS, and will send with medicines A WRITTEN
GUARANTEE to cure same or return the monies paid.
Dr. Fletcher’s treatment is both simple and effective,
and within the reach of the poorest. It is unlike any
other, and with it he has cured over 25,000 patients, and
invites patients to investifjate his statements by verifying
the testimonials published in his treatise. The treatise
will he forwarded on receipt of two stamps to cover
postage.
CONSULTATION BY LETTER, FREE.
Addre/, in first instance—
DR. H. EWART FLETCHER,
Box 1417, G.P.O.
Sydney, N.S.W.
Private address—Clonmel House, Waverley, Sydney.
Remember, all cases undertaken, guaranteed, and a
signed agreement given, which provides that NO COST
be incurred by the patient if a cure is not effected.
VARICOCELE RADICALLY CURED WITHOUT
OPERATION.
Mention this Paper.
12?” IN THE PRESS,
CC J± O-OXi-DlEltsr SHANTY,”
By “BULLETIN” WRITERS.


A pleasantly-situated Property, thoroughly cleared, close to Liverpool Station, Torrens Title. £1 deposit, 10s. pei month,
_A_. w. STEPHZE3ST, 28 CASTPEP-EAG-H: STREET, SYDNEY.
“ A Golden Shanty.”
A Selection from the brightest of the original literary
matter which has made The Bulletin world-famous. Price, Is. : posted, 3d. extra.
Public Companies.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA.
THE COMING COLONY!
Everyone should Invest a Few Pounds in Land
in
PERTH,
The CAPITAL CITY OF WESTERN AUSTRALIA.
Compared with other Australian Cities the Price
is Very Low.
The Coal, Gold and Tin Mines are attracting
much enterprise and capital to the Colony.
CITY BUILDING ~ ALLOTMENTS,
From JEI per Foot.
BUILDING SITES adjoining the CITY
From SID Lack.
Small Deposit. Easy Terms. Discount for Cash.
Each Lot guaranteed good Building Land.
Land in Perth will increase greatly in value during
the next few years.
INQUIRY COSTS NOTHING.
Pamphlets, Marked Plain, and full information
posted to any address on application to
The Intercolonial Investment Go,, Limit) 1
96 Bathurst Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
W. J. DOUGLAS, Manager.
The Australian Mercantile Loan and
Guarantee Co. (Limited).
Head Office :
Corner of Market ami York Streets, SYDNEY.
Melbourne—2B3 Collins-street East.
Brisbane —Corner Edward and Elizabeth Streets.
Newcastle -27 Hunter-street.
Directorate;
FRANK J. SMITH, Esq., M.L.A., Managing Director.
JP. HOWE, Esq., M.L.A. G. J. FINLAYSON, Lsq.
E. H. BUCHANAN, Esq. JAMES MILLER, Esq.
The Company grant immediate advances upon
Deeds of Land, Bills of Lading, Merchandise,
Storage, and Bond Certificates, and all classes of
mercantile and other approved securities, for fixed
terms or repayable by instalments.
Interest Allowed on Deposits;
3 months ... 6 per cent.
« ~ 7 „
12 „ 8 „
A. MILLER ... General Manager.
the
Australian Banking Company,
LIMITED.
PITT and MARKET STREETS, SYDNEY,
Incorporated under the Companies Act, IS7/,.
Authorised Capital, £500,000, in 100,COO Shares of £5 each.
Subscribed Capital, £75.(00.
FRANCIS ABIGAIL, M.L.A.,
Chairman of the Board of Directors.
A Branch of the Bank has been opened at Goulbum
under the management of C. 11. Atkinson, Esq.. (lately
Branch Manager of the Bank of New South W ales) for the
transaction of General Banking Business.
The Bank has paid its Shareholders a dividend cf 10 per
cent, every half-year since its formation.
The Bank transacts all usual banking business m every
Pa SpeciaTadvantages granted to Commercial Clients.
Overdrafts granted against deposit cf Deeds.
THE HIGHEST RATES OF INTEREST GIVEN FOR
FIXED DEPOSITS.
/
The Share Register is now open for the allotment of
Shares—New Issue.
By order of the Board of Directors.
RODERICK M'NAMARA, Manager.
Forms of application for Shares may he obtained at the
Bank.
CITY MUTUAL FIRE INSURANCE
COMPANY, Limited.
Established 1877.
Capital
Head Office;
25 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY.
A Cash Bonus of 10 per cent, is paid to Policyholders
jn renewals every year. Insurances covering Loss by Fire,
Lightning or Gas Explosion at Lowest Rates.
The DIVIDEND of 8 PER CENT, to 31st December,
1889, is now being paid, and the BONUS of 10 PER
JENT. to Policyholders will, as usual, he paid on rc-
lewal of their policies.
Money to Lend on Approved Security.
N.R.—The Bonus paid is equal to that paid by any
Pire Company in Sydney.
ROBERT KERR, Manager.
Sydney Canister Works,
COLLINS STREET, SURRY HILLS,
OFF CROWN STREET.
Manufacturers of allk ndsr.f 1 ins for Confectioner-*
Tea Merchants, Biscuit Makers Ac. , also all kimH
of Tins, round and square, for Popper, Spice and
Baking Powder, made by improved m ich aery.
A Trial Solicited.
Boots and Shoes.
PROBLEM OF TO-DAY-WHERE CAN WE GET GOOD
BOOTS ?—SOLVED AT LAST.
ZE3. iJtf 1 3Ffc. IE! IST O 3E3C
(The French of years ago)
Can supply Residents here with Boots batter made than
ever. Boots that must wear well and give satisfaction.
Send your orders then to 82 Oxford Sthfbt, and be sure
to enclose Sizes and Remittance, when your parcel will be
sent at once by Post, Rail, or Steamer.
Notice Prices for Boots that look well, wear wall
and fit well.
Children’s Elastic-sides, 2/-, 2/11, 3/6, 4/-, 4/6, etc \ Best
Men’s & Youths' ditto, 5/6, 6/-, 6/6, 7/6, 8/6, etc. / Boots
Men's & Boys’ Bluchers, 2/11, 4/-, 5/-, 6/-, best ever made.
A Line of Stylish paced Boots for Best Wear
(Boys’, Youths’ and Men’s Sizes).
ENGLISH BOOTS for LADIES, CHILDREN, etc.,
Sent as ordered. Lowest Price.
Satisfaction given or Money Returned.
Note the Address:
ECLIPSE boot CO.,
8} Oxford Street, SYDNEY.
E. French, Manager.
Business Announcements.
3, Xiuoiowici <Sz Son,
Manufacturers and Importers of Superior
OAK-TANNED LEATHER BE LT !N G
and every description of Leather Goods for Mining
and Engineering purposes.
All Goods bearing the above Trade Mark are warranted
to give entire satisfaction, or may be returned at the
Makers’ expense. The Pioneer Oak-tanned Leather
Belting is used exclusively by the N.S.W, Government.
Over 200,000 runnin / in Australia. The cheapest and
best Belting in the world. Send for prices and catalogues
163 Clarence Street, SYDNjSY.
E.UCALYPTL Oii-Sa.
Victory Ointment** 1
h R& !
LOO
II
mm
r ->
■Hi,, J i
im^rnm
Duncasa. 3FS. obs,
The Great American Athlete,
CURED of INFLUENZA by using COLEMANE & SONS’
EUCALYPTI-: EXTRACT.
WON’T
St; WKCKIVKI
If you want the best Medicine the world has ever pro-
due <1 IrvCoLKMANK & Sons' Eucalyitk Extract— there
uo no ten medicines equal to if. It is one of Natures
-eatest gifts to mankind. It is the only known cure for
Asthma, Consumption, Bronchitis, and all affections of
lie Chest and Lungs. For Palpitation of the Hcait,
Gravel and Kulnev complaints it has no equal. Levers of
all kinds Coughs, Colds, Rheumatism etc., are banished
l>\ its use Awarded Mcda's and Diplomas Adelaide,
Sydney and Melbourne, h -aling all competitors. Singers
an mild ic speakers will find C. and Sons’ Eucalmt®
|Kwonder; fsT Be sure and get Colk.mank and
Sons.
Business Announcements.
"WOOX*o wool.
THE NEW ZEALAND
Loan A Mercantile Agency
COM P A NY. LIMI T E D.
BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Capital, £4,500,000
Reserve, £270.000
Wool Season* 1888-89.
Regular Sales of Wool Held Throughout the
Season.
rmiE greatest care bestowed on the Valuation and the
L Displaying and Protecting all Wools entrusted to
the Company for sale, whether from large or small clips.
HT Groivers Advised and Consulted with before Sales
of their Clips are made.
Liberal Cash Advances, where desired, on Wool hen
of Ensuing Clip, and on Wool and other Produce, whethei
for sale in Sydney or shipment to London.
Auction Sales oe Sheep Skins, Marsupial
Skins, Hides, Tallow, &g., Held Regularly.
i£ir" Every Information Supplied on Application.
G. S. CAMPBELL, Manager.
SYDNEY WOOL & GRAIN WAREHOUSES
Bridge and Loftus Streets.
PRIDDY & CO.,
Hats made to Order-
CF HATS
MercerV.
Morley’s Hosiery.
438 George Street, Sydney.
Sranch-678 George Street, Brickfield Hill.
(57 H. SMITH & 450W S
MANUFACTURERS k IMPORTERS OF
flairs 71 n n c/iPS,
302 George Street, Sydney,
8 Doors South of Hunter Street.
.lA'v'-Vr
'■
’
"Sr,
I
A#
f
' ' -
*'x
£||
•<r
A Large Assort
aienl of English and
French Goods, from
the best Makers to
choose from.
Every description
of HATS and GAPS
made to Order.
'TfTTISTORY OF BOTANY
PRICE—ONE SHILLING.
BAY
—the—
Australian mutual
fire
Insurance Society.
Established
13021X1330
OP
20 per cent. Paid Annually
since 1873.
jf*-
i ;-
m
res
Head Office
—the
Oldest Mutual Fire Office
in Australia.
Claims promptly and liberally
settled. Fifteen days’arrace
allowed for Renewal of Policies.
Lowest Current Rates charged.
I'on. George Thornton, H!.L.C. K
Chairman.
Head Officr:
Corner Pitt & King Streets,
SYDNEY.
Walter Church ... Manager.
g
Or
m
■
cx
I?
¥
*
ia.'
&
s
:S
li)
3T
as
ajf
»
• "■.--t--.Rr •> r-
~ - 5T?.:-:
spr
in
r-
£
■SI
tsl
m
its i
m
!i
1 ?
j aS
0i
~^!i
I (
p
I 1
*si
>553£
®c?
.
11
:
r-«v
m
m
m
» i®
Business Announcements.
BAILEE & 0 0.,
General Auctioneers and E-tate Agents,
:5-25 Collins Street, Melbourne, ami 14 Cliapc]
Street, South Yarra.
til; BELLAS
a
RE-SOVER£ff.
oTUDV ECONOMY
® aid
Have your Umbrella Frames
Re-Covered, aiid your
Parasols Re-Lined and made
Equal to New, at
J . BUIiTjIV A N ’ S,
541 George Street,
Brickfield llill, Sydney,
between
Liverpool <(; Bathurst Sts ,
Parasols made to match Cos-
tumes. Repairs neatly done.
■
PAPER-HANGINGS,
oiis,C6lours« Paints
\WALLPAPERSFbpm&
ď
d
KUig
.29 Georges:
d
BathurstSt
Brickfield Hill.
mULVEEMACHER’S WORLD-
JET I 1 AM ED GALVANIC BELTS
FOR THE CUBE OF
Nervous Exhaustion and Debility, Sciatica,
Lumbargo, Rheumatism, &c„
HAVE received Testimonials from Three
Physicians to Her Majesty the Queen and
the Leading Physicians of many London Hospi-
tals, including over Forty Members of the Royal
College of Physicians of London.
For full Price-list and particulars, see new pam-
phlet “Galvanism : Nature’s Chief Restorer of
Impaired Vital Energy.” Pamphlets Free.
Sole Agents for N.S.W.,
FROST <3c SSiIPHAM
ELECTRICIANS,
474 & 587 George Street, Sydney.
Solo Agents for Victoria;
ALLISON BROS., 477 Collins-street West, Melbourne.
OYAL STANDARD HOTEL,
CASTLEREAGH and BATHURST STREETS.
Thoroughly renovated throughout.
First cla s accommodation for Country Yi itors.
TKO R 5 iA S M ‘CREERY:
MEDICAL HERBALIST,
83 Oxford Street, i doors above Rilsy Street.
Private Diseases of Both Sexes a Speciality.
Consultations Gratis. Charges very Moderate.
A Trial Solicited,
A SPEEDY CURE GUARANTEED.
G BOYNE
Proprietor
d
lavestiineiit, &jT\.cL ZE3 Tail
Company, Limitedl.
Authorised Capital, £lOO,OOO ... Reserves and Uncalled Capital, £37,000.
Rates for Deposits: 1 12 months, 7 per cent.; 6 months, 01 per cent.; at call, 5 per •cant.
Bonus to 12 months’ Depositors.
Directors: J. Garrard, M.P., Hon. -J. H. Young, M.P., J. P. Walker, J.P., John C. Hamilton.
J. D. Ward, Manager, 327 Pitt-streetJ Sydney.
d
327 PITT STEEET. SYDNEY.


The Bulletin
Vol. 11—Jfo. 533.
SATURDAY, MAY 3, 1890.
Price, <3 I.
d
ALLEGORICAL. —THE OPENING OF PARLIAMENT.
AND NOTHING COMES OF IT AS USUAL.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
“ Australia for the Australian's.” -
\ ■
Proprietors : BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO.,
Limited.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 24 Pitt- street, Sydney, New South Walks,
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(payable in advance, only).
Per Annum •••
Half-yearly 0 12 6
Quarterly 0 G 6
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Macleod, Managing Director .
Literary Communications to he addressed to J. F.
Archibald.
The Editor will carefully read and acknowledge in tne
“ Correspondence” column all contributions submitted
whether in the form of Political, Social, or other Articles,
Verse, Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in
length, or say 3000 words, are specially acceptable),
Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper-Clippings. All
communications will be regarded as strictly confidential.
“ The Bulletin ” will return all unavailable MSS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we
iesire those sending MSS. to distinctly understand that
we are not responsible for the preservation or transmission
of stick MSS.
NOTICE.
By sending direct to The Bulletin* Office Twenty Shillings
sterling—which you may pay by Post Office Order, One
Pound Note, or Stamps of any Australian colony—you
can have The Bulletin posted regularly to you every week
for a year.
This offer is not open to residents of Sydney. In that
city The Bulletin is not delivered by mail, but is entirely
in the hands of our carriers, with whom we do not wish
to interfere.
SATURDAY, APRIL 20, 1890.
The Descent of George.
The Bulletin has not waited for this moment to
express its belief that had Henry George con-
sulted his fame he would never have set foot in
Australia, or, having done so, never have opened
his mouth on a public platform. It has already
hinted pretty plainly that he has proved himself
to be another illustration of the unwisdom of a
man whose type of intellect is distinctly that of-
the speculative philosopher trying to adjust Ifis
intellectual angularities to the conditions of verbal
dodgery and mental elasticity, obedience to which
is demanded from the would-be popular speaker.
Now it'is going to say the same thing in very
much stronger phrases. It is an old story how
the student is, as a rule, the dismallest of failures
outside his librai’y— how the characteristics and
temper of mind developed by the processes of
calm induction and by the observations made
through a study window prove impractical
and therefore useless as implements to force the
lock of the material problems of life. George
ought to have been familiar enough with this
story, but apparently he has yet to hear it. Had
he heard it before, and taken its lesson to heart,
he would have confined his public utterances to a
pulpit, where he would befree from heckling, or to
a banquet-room where it is only required of a man
that he should not make too big an ass of himself.
George has not contented himself with the ser-
mon and the post-prandial flutter. He has
stepped on to the stump—and has tumbled off it
with something like ignominy.
* * *
Speaking at Adelaide on the night of tJiu 21st
April, George told his audience that “ he Tiad not
advocated confiscation while he had been in Aus-
tralia.” This statement we believe to be nothing
less than the truth, for vva listened to his Sydney
orations and scanned the report of every other
public utterance of his that we came across mainly
with the view of discovering what he had to say
upon that very point, and we know that he has
said nothing. An omission of a reference to a
particular clause in a creed is one thing, but to refer
to that omission in such a way as to communicate
the impression that the clause is not to be found
in the creed at all is another and vastly different
thing. The former does not necessarily convey an
imputation of disingenuousness. But such an
imputation is almost inseparable from the latter.
And it is this latter of which George has been
guilty, for surely no other inference is possible
from his remark, but that he intended his hearers
to believe that the Single-tax theory does not in-
volve confiscation. No, we will withdraw the
phrase; we will not believe George guilty of
disingenuousness. We will suggest an alternative
—namely, that in his progress through the colonies
he has learnt such facts and been informed with
such principles, that he has seen fit to modify the
Single-tax doctrine as formulated by him in
“Progress and Poverty.”
# # #
We could find fifty passages in George’s books
which arc unintelligible if we extract from them
the root-idea of confiscation, but we need do no
more than cite half a-dozen, which we choose
almost at random. In “ Progress of Poverty ”he
says :
We may safely leave landowners the shell, if we take the
kernel. It is not necessary to confiscate land ;it is only
necessary to confiscate rent.
The habitual confiscation of a product must be
in reality the confiscation of its source, and as
rent is a corollary and a product of the ownership
of land, this proposition of George means the
confiscation of the land. That he understood such
would be the effect is expressed by the very
phraseology of the quotation. When the kernel
is abstracted, of what use is the shell? A toy for
an idiot child to play with, or a bit of the “ pro-
perty ” with which an economic juggler seeks to
delude tlm.gullcd public !
* * *
Of course, though tire kernel were abstracted,
if the value of the nut be paid to the owner, the.
demands of justice will be satisfied and there
would bo no confiscation. Perhaps George means
this ? What does be say on the point ? This :
When the people of a country are aroused to the injus-
tice of private property in land A . . they will not
trouble themselves about compensating the proprietors
of land. Nor is it right there should be any concern about
the proprietors.
And, again :
If the land belong to the people, why continue to per-
mit landowners to take the rent or compensate them in
any manner for the loss of rent ?
Once more—this time from “ The Reduction to
Iniquity ” (the reply to the Duke of Argyll):—
Those who say it would be unjust for the people to re-
sume their natural lights in the land without compensat-
ing present holders, flagrantly confound right and wrong.
Obviously, Compensation is not a corollary of
Confiscation in the Georgian scheme ; the reason
being, of course, that according to Georgian
ethics —
Land is not of the species of things to which the pre-
sumption of rightful property attacks.
And because—
Property in land is as indefensible as property in men.
It is so absurdly impolitic, so outrageously unjust, so
flagrantly subversive of the true rights of property that
it can only be instituted by force, and maintained by con-
founding in the popular mine the distinction between
property in land and property in things that are the re-
sult of labour.
Between the primary position of George as stated
in this last quotation, and Compensation, there
is an unbridgeable chasm. Between it and Confis-
cation there is the connecting-link of an infrang-
ible syllogism. Where the “ right to landed
property ” is only a conventional and legal right
and its foundation in natural morals,* as George
assumes, is undemonstrable, then the right of
ownership, by process of natural reasoning, should
fall to the State, to the community. In other
words, it should be confiscated. And being con-
fieated because it conflicts with natural equity,
the person from whom it is taken has no claim to
compensation, for when yon re-possess yourself of
stolen goods you do not compensate either the first
robber, the “fence,” or the person who may have
bought the goods in good faith.
* * *
We have thus, in George’s own words, the de-
pendent and consequential propositions that pri-
vate ownership of land being wrong, the State is
entitled to take its product, the rent, which, inas-
much as it represents the capitalisation of the land-
value, is the land, without compensation, and the
simplest and most effective method of absorption
is by way of the Single-tax. The process may
not be termed confiscatory, nor the instru-
ment Confiscation, but the name of one or the
other is immaterial. The fact remains. Confis.ation
may not be a tenet of the Georgian faith as
preached by the founder, in Australia, but it is
not to be denied that it is plainly written in its
Bible and in the authorised commentaries on that
Bible. Therefore are we justified in inferring
that during his Australian mission Henry
George has learnt something and seen somewhat
that has prompted him to tear out a prominent
leaf or two from the Single-taxers’ scriptures.
Our inference can be proved wrong only by accept-
ing a conclusion which places Georg.ls in the
category of the shufflers and the evasive ? One
thing or the other must the ’Frisco Prophet have
done at Adelaide. He either repudiated in
essence his former utterances on the notion of
Confiscation and the notion itself as an integral
part of the Single-tax. theory, or he knowingly
misled his audience. V.
** t *
Whichever alternative Mr. George chooses, it
will go to show that lie should have stuck to his
particular last; as a sp’dilator in economics, as a
reveller to tlvs generation of one or two matchless
pearls of economic truth, as a social reformer in
wliqse bosom burns theflairie of a pure and ardent
jiud noble enthusiasm, and as a literary artist of
consummate capacity, be had a function and a
reputation. As an orator on the platform, liable
to be committed at any moment to a hasty state-
ment and a hurriedly-conceived thought whicli
would not, on analysis, present any logical relation
to the essentials of his theory, he is in a wrong
sphere. His order of intellect requires for fruition
the sequestered shade of the study, and not the
forcing and erratic heat of the audience-hall, and
its appropriate fruit is a matured judgment, and
not a smart repartee. To but few men is it given
to acquit themselves with an equably-great dis-
tinction in the respective arenas of written and
spoken thought; and George is not one of the
few. With peculiar force does this law of excep-
tion apply to the investigation of economic and
sociological phenomena. The experience of Henry
George repeats that of Ricardo, John Stuart
Mill, and Herbert Spencer. Giants in the
study, each mounted the platform, only to fall
victims to a pebble slung by some dwarfish
heckler. For his fame’s sake, George should
never have come to close quarters witli a popular
audience.
The Future of New South Wales’ Boys.
In fixing the school-age at from five to fifteen
years, the State assumes that a lad, when he
reaches the maximum age, is old enough to earn
his own living. Most parents are also of this
opinion, being solicitous of finding work for their
sons before they pass their sixteenth year. It may
therefore be assumed that every lad of sixteen is a
candidate for employment. Of the 11,323 males
born in New South Wales during 1874 there
are now surviving about 8700, and there
are also about 800 imported boys who
will reach sixteen during 1890, so that 9500
lads will demand employment during the
course of the current year. However, this is not
all. Taking one year with another, 15,000 adult
males in excess of the departures make New South
Wales their home. They are mostly in the prime
of lifej and are attracted to these shores from the
United Kingdom. Taking, therefore, the home
and the imported article, New South Wales will
have during this year an addition to its popula-
tion of, say, 25,000 male workers. Let us now
see where these are to find work.
# * *
According to the theory propounded by Mr. A.
De Lissa at a meeting of the local Economic
Society, the population is divided in fairly equal
proportions into primary and secondary workers ;
in other words, for every man who produces there
is another who modifies or distributes. Assuming
that this theory is true —and we have a strong
suspicion that it is true —New South Wales must
provide employment for 12,500 producers and
12,500 secondary workers who were not at work in
the previous year. Next year a slightly larger
number will have to be employed, and so on as
long as the present increase of population con-
tinues. And now for our computation. The so-
called primary industries are the pastoral, agricul-
tural, mining, and manufacturing, and the
probabilities of employment in each pursuit, as
laid down by the veracious Coghlan, may be
readily determined. Pastoral pursuits properly
so called employ all the year round about
20,000 men. Sheep have been increasing during
the past five years at the rate of little more
than 4 per cent., while cattle have decreased
somewhat during the period. It is certain that
the demand for men on squattages will not in-
crease faster than the stock depastured, and that
where there is no increase in stock, there will be
none in hands. Now, as the number of cattle in
the country does not increase, it may be assumed
the hands employed on cattle-runs will, so far as
number is concerned, be stationary. As sheep
have increased at the rate of 4 per cent., we may
take it for granted that there will be on sheep
stations a demand for 4 per cent, more hands than
last year - that is equivalent to 700 men. Agricul-
ture increases slowly, hardly at an equal ratio with
population. During last year 72,000 persons were
engaged in agriculture and allied pursuits;
assuming an increase of 3i per cent., which is that
of population, there will be a demand for 2500
labourers during the current in excess of the pre-
ceding year. Mining shows an increase of 0000
hands during the past six years; if this increase
continue, which is most improbable, there will be a
demand for 1000 additional hands in the search
for minerals. In what are facetiously termed
manufacturing pursuits, there has been an increase
of only 1100 males in two years, or at the rate of
550 per annum, which from present appearances,
is more than can be expected in the future. Add-
ing the foregoing increases together, pastoral 700,
agriculture 2500, mining 1000 and manufactures
550, we have a possible opening for the employ-
ment of 4750 primary workers. This, however, is
not all—death usually takes off 4500 breadwinners
during the year—half of whom we will assume to
be primary workers, so that with 4750 additionally
required and 2250 vacancies by death, there is em-
ployment for 7000 producers every year. This
number of producers, according to Mr. De Lissa’s
theory, means 14,000 workers of all kinds.
* * *
We have seen that the supply of adult males is
annually about 25,000, while the opportunities for
their employment are only 14,000 —a difference of
11,000. The number of adult males in New South
Wales, excluding gaol-birds and the residents of
asylums, is about 374,000, and if 11,000 represented
the total able-bodied men unable to find employ-
ment, this in itself would be a very serious trouble.
This number, however, only represents the incre-
ment of the unemployed which is yearly added to
the community. How long this addition has been
going on we cannot pretend to say, anyhow, it is
immaterial to our argument. What we have to
face is this : Under existing conditions, out of the
15.000 additional workers attracted to the country,
11.000 will either not find employment, will dis-
place persons already at work, or else deprive the
population now growing to manhood of the op-
portunities taearn their livelihood.
<S? * *
No one can say that these conditions exist but
in theory. Everywhere the native youth finds the
utmost difficulty to obtain employment, and the
streets of Sydney are thick with imported labourers
clamouring for w rk t at is not to be had. A
ready remedy might possibly be found in the
compulsory cessation of immigration—such a step
would be not only uneconomic but foolish and at
the most but of temporary effect. There is a
remedy to suppose otherwise would be ridiculous
and we purpose at another time pointing out what
the remedy really is and how it would operate.
HENRY SIE BEL.
Jone of the Eidsvold.
Once more has the majesty of the law been
vindicated by a sentence which is in itself an
insult to the nobler instincts of man. Chahi.es
Jones, of Eidsvold (Q.), lias been sentenced to
penal servitude for life by Supreme Court Justice
Mein for murdering his wife under circumstances
—which repeated in their own case would prompt
nine out of ten men to similarly act, and which
would stigmatise the tenth man who failed to
emulate Charles Jones' deed as being a good deal
less than a man. Listen to Jones’ record, as dis-
closed in the published evidence : himself honest,
hard working and unselfish, he was cursed with a
wife of drunken habits and adulterous instincts.
The woman sold her honour thus—in England.
He forgave her —for the sake of their child, and,
to hide her shame, brought her to a new country—
to Queensland. There he made a home, and
proved himself a true husband and breadwinner.
Every penny of his earnings, so it was sworn by a
Crown witness, he gave her, and this though no
inconsiderable part of his wages must have gone
to the beershop and the low dance-room. Again
she betrayed him, and again h ■ forgave her, and
went to another township. Work failed, and ho
went forth to seek it. He sent the woman money
while he was away—all he earned less the bare
cost of subsistence. Illness came upon him and
forced him into a Sydney hospital, and his weak-
ness compelled him to return home He wrote to
his wife and told her tli .t lie was returning. He
got back to his “home” —and found it deserted.
Three hundred yards away there was another
house—occupied by a man named Summers. From
the empty and violated house to the other he
passed at once, found his wife in flagrante
delicto with Summers, and shot at them
both, killing the adulteress and wounding
her paramour. For which deed society properly
put him on his trial. Such deed a jury, following
the judge in his summing-up, properly pronounced
manslaughter. Which deed, in defiance alike of
his own charge and of the jury’s verdict, Judge
Mein improperly pronounced “ deliberate mur-
der,” but, at the same time, in deference to the
weakness of “the indulgent jury;” an act of
murder that would be punished only by the mild
penalty of “ life !” This is Jones’ record, and it
is a record that calls, in its latest chapter, for a
revisal at the hands of every Austx-alian. Were a
Federal Court of Criminal Appeal in existence
now, Jones’ case would be before it. But,
through the insincerity and jealousy of our politi-
cians, no such court exists, and there is no
appellate jurisdiction but one—the public opinion
of Australia. To that The Bulletin appeals on
Jones’ behalf primarily ; and, secondarily, on
that of the integrity of the jury system.
Jones is a life-prisoner because Judge Mein
disregarded the letter, and the intent —both —of
the jury’s verdict; and the verdict itself was ob-
tained on something like a false pretence. In
his charge the judge put an alternative interpreta-
tion on Jones’ act. If the, jury accepted the
former, then he told them their verdict must be
manslaughter. If the latter, then it must be
murder. They did what the greater jury of the
public will do; they chose the former. But the
bewigged Bench scouted its own logic, insulted
the jury by calling it “indulgent,” and violated
the principles of trial by one’s peers by overruling
their verdict, and by declaring the crime to be
deliberate murder. In his charge, Justice Mein
said :
If they (the jury) came to the conclusion that Jones
went home expecting- to find his wife an honest woman,
and had been surprised to find her . . . with a man,
that he had a revolver, and took it out and shot her with-
out deliberation, they might find him guilty of man-
slaughter. If not, they should convict him of murder.
The jury, believing the counsel was tendered in
good faith, acted upon it and returned a finding
of the minor offence. On this his Honor calmly
remarked :
The—l will not say merciful, but indulgent—jury havs
found you, Jones, guilty only of manslaughter. I see
nothing in this ease to justify a conviction for the minor
offence. I shall pass a sentence commensurate with the
crime. You deliberately murdered your wife, though the
jury have only convicted you of manslaughter.
And then he gave sentence —“the severity of
which,” reports the local press, “ produced a pro-
found sensation in Court.” Well might it do so,
and unless we mistake Australian manhood the
shock will spread to remote spots that have
hitherto enjoyed a happy ignorance of Judge
Mein’s existence. The whole tenor of the
evidence was in favour of the theory of the
defence most ably made by Mr. M'Grath
—a solicitor and not a barrister—that the
act which has scandalised society and put
Mr. Justice Mein out of temper was unpremedi-
tated, and lacked every essential of a deliberate
proceeding. Jones enters his own house, and
passes almost instantly to Summers’. The interval
between the arrival at his home and the happening
of the tragedy is? to be measured by moments and
minutes only, and not by hours. Time, delay,
thought, calculation constitute the essence of
deliberation. All were wanting in Jones’ act.
He was the victim of a sudden impulse; of a surge
of mad, unreasoning, but justifiable and natural
passion. This was the jury’s conclusion, or,
otherwise, following Judge Mein’s _ lead, they
would not have returned the verdict of man-
slaughter. This is our conclusion. This, we
are confident, will be the conclusion of such
of the public as read the evidence. Of
evidence of premeditation on Jones’ part there
was absolutely not a tittle Had the man meant
murder, he would not have telegraphed to his
wife that he was returning home. No intending
murderer puts his prospective victim on his or her
guard. Practically synchronous with the revela-
tion of this last infidelity of the woman’s was her
death —there was no time for Jones to think or
to prepare either for the act itself or for
subsequent escape, and when Judge Mein
declared the crime to be deliberate murder
and pronounced “a sentence commensurate with
the crime,” he went with an appalling cynicism
absolutely beyond the testimony of the verdict. A
farcical regard for a technicality alone could have
prevented him from donning the black cap, but
all the same, he passed sentence on Jones for a
crime of which he had not been found guilty,
There was not, The Bulletin repeats, a fraction
of evidence to support the judicial view of de-
liberation. But there was ample evidence to show
the deliberation Of the dead woman and her
paramour. Judge Mein appears to have
reserved all his judicial faculty for elabora-
ting a case against the prisoner, which had
nothing to justify it except the one-sided rhetoric
of the Crown Prosecutor. In the days of hard-up
Governments and deficits, any expedient that re-
duces outlay ought to be welcomed, and by a
general adoption of Judge Mein’s example a vast
retrenchment in legal expenditure could be effected.
When a judge unreservedly accepts in lieu of evi-
dence, the theory of Crown counsel, and his own
opinion in lieu of a jury’s verdict, both the Crown
counsel and the jury are placed in the category of
luxurious superfluities, and the billets are inter-
changeable.
Goon old “ information received !” The full par-
ticulars of the little comedy played at Melbourne
on the occasion of the “clever capture”of Piekke
Douaus have just leaked out. The facts are these:
The day preceding Ins arrest Douaus met an old
gaol-mate in the Fitzroy Gardens. They were
both hard-up, and decided that a raid ontheBourke-
street Coffee Palace would be an excellent tiling.
So Mr. G animate, who had reformed so far that
he held the honourable position of detectives’
“ fizzgig,” engaged a two-bedded room at the
Coffee Palace and installed Douaus therein, with
instructions to lie close. Then his companion
calmly interviewed the detectives, and told them
that they would find the escapee in room No.
Tnat night was enacted the spectacular part of
the play. The detectives secured 17 constables
from the barracks, and posted them all round the
Coffee Palace at about midnight—this to secure
a man who was perfectly unsuspecting and con-
sidered himself safe from arrest. The detectives
searched evei’y apartment in the place, leaving the
room last on the list of inspection. _ At about
one p.m. they rushed into Douaus’ room and
handcuffed him at once. C Meanwhile MG
Fizzgig thought that the time had arrived for
the execution of a little business outside hi|
legitimate profession, and he “went through
one of the searched rooms to the tune of £12. J. he
detectives have not arrested him yet. Tin*
authentic explanation is supported by the fact
that the description of Douaus, as furnished to
the detectives, was about as true as if it had told
them to look for a tall, thin man when they should


have searched for a short, stout one. And this
last suggests another wheel within the marvellously
concentric tire of police matters. The detectives
got their description of the escapee from Pen-
tndge, and almost everybody knows that this ap-
prehension and return to the prison paved the way
for a number of disclosures—unpleasant to the
gaol authorities but interesting to the general
public. Probably the Pentridge people did not
require Douars back again.
■ o
Dear Bulletin, ■=—Why does the S. M. Herald
allow its contributors to give away the Foreign-
trade policy of the only Foreign-trade Australian
province in this manner? In a late issue the
“Spestre” is writing some bush sketches, and
he says :
The country is but thinly settled, the few selectors out
on the back-blocks are poor and struggling, and their
custom is hardly worth having. The only article of any
importance sent away is timber, and this trade furnishes
employment to but few people.
But the Herald’s special representative at the
New Zealand and South Seas Exhibition goes still
further
To hark back once more to the noteworthy N.Z
woollens, 1 shall not, I think, he travelling* away from the
subject and its application if I say that I .have seen
nothing in the condition of the productions here which
may not be found in N.S. Wales ; the wool every whit as
good ; the machinery and the skilled labour are, or can he
all obtained there. I take it that for the same wages paid
“ e J* e > wee kly, suitable labour can be had in
-N.S. Wales. The woollen-workers here are well-to-do
satisfied workpeople, take them as a whole. Is there any
sufficient reason why the largest wool-producing place of
the colonies of the Australasian group should, without
elioi t to attain at least an equal position, quietly acquiesce
in the leading position for the production of first-class
woollen goods which N.Z. is increasingly and deservedly
attaining. ' J
The news that the California Athletic Club intend
to give a prize of £4OOO to the winner of the
Sullivan-Jackson fight is enough to make
Heenan and Sayers —not to mention the Cribbs,
Belchers, Tipton Slashers and others of a re-
mote generation—arise from their graves. In the
days when men fought (till they died, in some
cases) they were lucky to make £5OO out of a
championship win. Nowadays, when the art of
receiving punishment, without losing the heart to
take it, is well nigh extinct and when
men emerge from a prize-battle as spotless
as a masher leaving a glove-shop—the hero
who reaches his adversary least can often
drive around in a buggy for the remainder
of his natural life. None of the old time bruisers
dared attempt to tackle the championship until
they had put up their bare knuckles, in the open,
more times than Sullivan and Jackson between
them have had chances to do. They are mere
novices at a game which produces them more
money from a few efforts than its best professors
could have earned in three lifetimes. £4OOO as a
little incidental plum to be scrambled for (if not
divided by arrangement) by a boozing bully and a
not specially intellectual nigger ! No wonder the
Chicago anarchists raise Cain when times are bad.
The Bulletin admires consistency, also cheek, and
that is why it loves the Sydney Evening News.
In the first column of the fifth page of that noble
journal’s fifth edition of Eriday last the following
appears :
While hearing an application in chambers this morning
his Honor the Chief Justice, in referring to newspaper
comments on legal suits, said that no contempt of court
could he greater than an attempt made, whether by
speaking or writing, to influence the decision of the
Court.
In the third column appears a report of an appli-
cation by the Evening News proprietary for a
change of venue from Albury to Sydney in a libel
case brought by an Albury resident against the
Messrs. Bennett, who by affidavit pointed out—
That the plaintiff had since the institution of the pro-
ceedings canvassed the district for sympathy, and
sympathetic expression on his behalf had been formulated
oy the two local papers, which tended to prejudice the
defendants' case in the eyes of the local people.
In the second column of the same edition of the
E. News we read how John Macleod, doctor and
clergyman, was examined at the Water Police-
court before Mr. Addison, P.M., on a charge of
bigamy. Says the Evening News (the same
paper which complains that its case hai been preiu-
diced at Albury) :
The prisoner wore a sleek and cunning look, while his
clothes bore that appearance which someone has very
aptly described as shabby-genteel.
The Evening News’ libel case being a matter of
money, must not be prejudiced, you see, but the
case of the man accused of bigamy,' being a matter
involving only, say ten years’ gaol, may fairly be
prejudiced to any extent. Isn’t it just about time
that the New South Wales Supreme Court took
measures to secure a fair and unprejudiced trial
for every citizen charged with an offence? The
handicap of the dock and spikes is surely quite
enough. Why should the journals be allowed to
publish horrible caricatures of accused men (often
without means of defence, and dependent on the
charity of the junior bar), apparently with the
object of “ rubbing in ” the damning and cruel
letterpress descriptions given of their personal
appearance.
Dilke writes in the Universal Review that Eng-
land is unprepared for war. We pinch Dilke
across the ocean for this piece of stale news. Look,
on one side, at the photographs of the Crown-
Prince of the Franco-Prussian war-time—of that
remorseless old drill-master, Emperor William
at those of the cold-blooded, ascetic Moltke and
his i avenous-looking staff, past and present ; on
the other, attentively regard the fatuous face of
the over-fed Duke of Cambridge, British Com-
mander-in-Chief, who “ does not intend to resign,”
hut will clutch his pay till he has dropsy in his
feet; at the epileptic visage of his inevitable suc-
cessor, the Duke of Connaught; at the outward
evidences of fatty degeneration in the Prince of
Walks, the male head of the House of Guelph.
Ihe Hohenzollerns and their entourage are
leaders of men ; the Guelphs & Co. look like
U lze patrons of the best and most oily restaurant.
Ihe Hohenzollerns are born commanders who
elevate to command only iron men ; the other lot
are born to eat and loaf and spout ghost-made
speeches, and open bazaars, and wallow in the most
disgraceful and venal nepotism. Each is the type
of a class which at the outbreak of war leads or
sends his countrymen to battle. At the beginning
of almost every war the British soldier is led like
a sheep to the slaughter by men of the class of
whom Queen Victoria’s friend, General M ‘Neill,
is a sample. The_German leaders typify “before
timing, ’ the British Royal-made generals typify
after dining." One lot are the wolves, the other
the fatted calves. Germany goes to war as a wolf
out of the Tlmringian wilds. England arises
boot it aS a man out of a drunk en sleep in tight
One of the regular fallacies in politico-economic
cant is the protest against interference witli the
hours of labour, the kind of Ereetrade which led
John Bright to oppose the endeavours of
Shaftesbury to limit the toil of women and chil-
dren in factories and underground mines. Such
thinkers as Bright pursuing their theories remind
one of Sydney Smith’s saying about the Jacobins :
“ They would think no more of destroying a
generation of human beings than a philosopher
would of stifling a frog in an air-pump.” The old-
fashioned arguments were trotted out when the
Melbourne Association of Shop-Assistants got an
Act through Parliament for closing at 7 in the
evening, and its success has been such that many
tradesmen in the Melbourne suburbs have billed
a notification that they will close at 6 hencefor-
ward. Where would the Eight-Hours’ movement
have been on the basis of political economy ?
Premier Parkes, on behalf of the New South
Wales Government, has promised to recommend
the payment of £2OOO Treasury money towards
the erection of a statue to the late Dr. John Dun-
more Lang. He has, The Bulletin contends, no
right to make any such recommendation, for if the
people as individuals care not to subscribe to the
Lang statue, they ought not to be compelled to
subscribe as a community. The hour is not yet
for the full recognition of Lang’s services ; it will
come, who knows how soon, for with the growth
of National spirit the author of the “ Coming
Event ” must inevitably take a high place in the
people’s hearts, as a true prophet and a far-seeing
patriot. Now the news comes from Ballarat that
a Mr. Oddie, J.P., intends to erect, at his own
cost, a statue to Peter Lalor, in Sturt-street.
This is also unsatisfactory; such an office should
have been undertaken either by the community or
some body claiming to represent national feeling.
When such acts are the work of some obscure
person, we are always suspicious that the pedestal
may be used to elevate into public notice more
than the figure whose name it bears.
The Single Tax.
Dear Bulletin, —In recent issues of your paper
two paragraphs have appeared, one containing un-
mistakeable reference to myself and the other
mentioning me by name. To these I claim what I
believe has never yet been denied by The Bulle-
tin, viz., the right of a temperate and respectful
reply.
The gravamen of the charge preferred against
me in the paragraphs referred to is that I am in-
consistent in taking an active part in the Single-
tax movement headed by Henry George, while at
the same time holding the position of manager of
a Land and Building Society.
I do not propose, like Namaan of old, to ask
pardon for ‘‘bowing in the house of Rimmon.”
My defence is an alibi. The first duty of a law-
abiding citizen is to obey the laws of his country.
But if that country enjoys the blessings of repre-
sentative Government, free speech and a free
press, it is always open to a citizen to advocate the
repeal of what he considers an unjust or oppressive
law by the proper constitutional methods which
the laws allow. That is, he may by speech, or
writing, or legitimate organisation—even agitation
—endeavour to induce the representatives of the
people td repeal a bad law, and substitute a good
one for it. This is the true method of peaceful
progress ; and if the law which is sought to be
repealed because of its oppressive and injurious
effects upon the majority happens to be one which
benefits certain of the individuals who desire its
abolition, it is a foolish and generally a selfish cry
which demands, in the sacred name of consis-
tency, that they shall refuse to profit by the in-
stitutions they attack. For if it be. inconsistent
to benefit by the operation of an unjust law,
surely it is equally inconsistent to suffer injury
by it. Yet what would happen if, on the grounds
of consistency, a man who believes that his im-
provements should not be taxed for municipal
purposes were to refuse to pay the amount at
which the assessors of his borough had rated him ?
If all the landlords in a country could be in-
duced to give their land to their tenants, the evil
tendencies of private ownership would not be de-
stroyed. The effects might be delayed for a time
in that particular country, but the result would
only be that the injurious power of land-monopoly
had changed hands. As you remarked on April
sth of Balfour’s Irish Land Purchase Bill : “It
is simply a temporary shifting of the land-robbers’
grip from one part of the earth to another—the
closing up of a sore in one place which is bound to
break out in another with increased vigour.” If,
then, the sacrifice of the personal interests of all
who benefit by land-speculation and land-mono-
poly, under existing conditions, would have no
influence in the desired direction, what justifica-
tion is there for the demand for that sacrifice on
the part of one ?
In matters of individual personal conduct, if a
man proposes one thing and acts contrary to his
profession, he is justly chargeable with inconsis-
tency. For instance, if a man believes that it is
right and proper to have only one wife, he would
be inconsistent in marrying two, even if the laws
of his country permitted it. But if the same man
held that the representation of the people in Par-
liament would he more equally secured, and the
adoption of liberal reforms more readily obtained
by the operation of the “One Man One Vote”
principle, I do not think he could be fairly charged
with inconsistency if, having half-a-dozen votes
under a system which he openly condemned, he
exercised them all. Indeed, to act otherwise would
be nothing more nor less than making his op-
ponents a present of five votes. Again, a man
who advocates total abstinence, from the convic-
tion that the use of strong drink is an injurious
individual practice, would be inconsistent if he
indulged in alcoholic beverages; but a man who
believed in Protection to the point of prohibition
of imports would not be acting immorally by
doing business as an importer in a Free'trade
country.
The contention of the Single-taxers is not that
the buying and selling of lots is “immoral” in
the sense that trading in goods known to be stolen
would be. They hold that our present taxation
laws are injurious in their effects, in that they
cause the revenues of the country to be derived
from improper sources. In their opinion, land-
values, which arise from the presence and needs of
the whole community, are the proper source of
taxation, and they hold that the practical im-
munity of land-values from taxation has made
them in the past a more profitable avenue for the
investment of money than productive industry.
Money seeking investment will always en-
deavour to find untaxed channels, as ' surely
as water will try to flow down-hill. Traffic
m lots is an effect, not a cause—the effect
of the immunity of land-values from taxation-
in the same way as the importation of cheap goods
is the effect of the want of a high tariff. If people
would cease to buy or to sell cheap imported
goods, there would be no necessity for a tariff to
keep them out or to increase their price. But
people will not; hence the need, according to
Protectionists, for the passing of laws to make it
unprofitable to import. If people would not hold
lots for speculative rises, the money which is now
devoted to holding land out of use would bo
chverted into channels of productive industry,
and the raw material of all industry—the land—
would be much more easily obtainable lay those
who wished to use it. But they will not; hence
e necessity, according to Single-taxers, for
cnangmg the laws so as to make it unprofitable to
old land out of use. If, as your paragraphist
last week infers, there is no difference between a
pmgle-taxer buying and selling lots and “ a purist
looping a bagnio,” could not the same be said,
fairness, of the Protectionist who
bought or sold say, an imported buggy ? Yours
April 7,1890. E. W. Foxall.
• creature, “ the average Freetrader ’
is, rightly or wrongly, generally credited with an expert-
ness in the use of the petitio principii, and it is not sur-
prising, therefore, to discover that in Mr. E. W. Poxall,
the head and front of N.S.W. Single-taxers, and, conse-
quently, a Freetrader of the Purest and Most Unadul-
terated Type, the positive degree becomes the superla-
tive and that as a proficient in the arts of begging the
question and of evading the issue, it would be almost im-
possible to Surpass him. In the first paragraph to which
Mr. roxall refers we commented on the apparent incon-
Sistency of a prominent Georgeite perpetuating a system
wl Jich is denounced by George as immoral. We asked
xt ~e unmoral, how can the Building Society man
(Mr. roxall) prove his consistency ? If it be not im-
moral, why does he consent to George saying it is?”
Our correspondent’s platitudes as to the right of a citizen
to take advantage of a legality of which at the same time
iif < n? a PP roves > shirk the point. According to George,
the Single-tax has an ethical basis—is founded on essential
morality. The system which the Single-tax would
destroy private ownership in land with its corollaries of
land-monopoly and holding for a rise in speculative
values—George, therefore, consistently declares a pro-
moter of robbery and the prime factor of social evil. In
short, an immorality. According to the Georgian doctrine,
a man who is fostering this immoral system, and makes a
profit out of it, must be—what ? Not an actor in morality,
certainly, though he may be a preacher of it. Had
George placed his hypothesis on a less elevated plane,
and put it on the ground of a political expedient
(such as that, let us say, on which rests the “ One
Man, One Vote,” and the Protective theories) it would
be unquestionably open for a man to take advantage of
the system, while opposing it and advocating its contrary,
without exposing himself to a charge of inconsistency.
When a question, however, is removed to the sphere of
nght and wrong, the case is altogether different—a man
can t be both right and wrong at the same instant; if he
is right in denouncing a system as immoral, he must be
wrong in doing his level best to extend the system and to
sti eng then its clutch on the throat of the commu-
nity. There can be no compromise in ethics. Of course
we have been reasoning from the Georgian hypothesis.’
t ' - Poxall can free himself from the dilemma in which
not The Bulletin, but George, places him, by repudiating
the hypothesis and denying the moral basis of the Single-
tax. In that contingency he will have to write “ Bosh !”
page of Book YII. of “ Progress and Poverty,”
and “Bunkum !” on the chapter entitled “The Certial
i’i And then ’ having thus cancelled George, and
rubbed out the best part of George’s gospel, one other
thing will remain for him to do., He will have to cancel
*u Ve cc dei V dls r ' • Foxall’s public utterances on
the Single-tax. Stay—there is yet another thing Mr.
roxall can do. As he hands Bill Jones the deeds for the
suburban lot which Bill has purchased from Mr. Foxall’s
society with thirty years’ savings from the toil of his
hands, he should give Bill a guarantee that he (Mr. F.) is
not doing all he knows to render these same deeds of less
value than the parchment on which they are scrawled
Ed. Bulletin.]
Tooth and Co., Ltd., the Sydney brewers,
have made nearly £51,000 profit for the half-year
on their million capital.
A party went to get a child baptised*
While awaiting the arrival of the clergymen, the
sexton created no little consternation by chucking
the infant under the chin, and thus addressing the
person whom he took to be the author of its being :
“ You should consider yourself lucky, sir, in hav-
mg a child that so closely resembles you ! ” The
person addressed was the godfather.
The present London rage is the nightly
recitation by Amy Roselle (Mrs. Arthur X)acre),
of Savile Clarke’s verses, “The Siege of Luck-
now,” of which this is a slab :
A tale of the Siege of Lucknow, though the years have
rolled away
It is fresh in my memory still—like a story of yesterday.
’Twas the terrible mutiny time, when the fierce fanatical
hordes
Rose—and nought to withstand but the flash of a handful
of swords;
Only a handful of men stood shoulder to shoulder sore
smitten,
Fighting for country and Queen, and bearing the banner
of Britain.
Then the last day came as we thought, and death seemed
fairer still
Than the fate which might one day be ours if the foeman
had his will.
And I turned to the man who loved me, and I said—“ By
our plighted troth,
By the love that we bear each other, now swear me a
resolute oath,
When the last onset comes you will keep me one cart-
ridge—you understand—
And save me, and kill me. Oh, love ! ’Twill be best that
I die by your hand.”
Then he bent down and kiss’d me and promised. While
the words that he spoke will remain
Engraven for aye on my heart, until death re-unites us
again.
* * # * #
Then we saw the waving Tartans, and the glimmer of
steel outshine,
Ah, me! How our hearts had ached for a sight of that
ordered line ;
And then the peril was ended, and the sorrow was over-
past,
They had raised the leaguer of Lucknow ! and we knew
we were saved at last!
And the foul foe knew to his cost in that night of ruin
and wrack,
The strength of the soldiers of England ’ncath the banner
that never goes back.
Never goes back ! What about Amajuba Hill?
The British in India were invaders, exploiters,
and oppressors, and the “foul foe” were men
fighting for their burgled country and the ancient
faith at which the proud invader had spat. Great
Britain professes in a general sort of way to own
the earth and the fulness thereof, and to have pre-
empted salvation for the Anglo-Saxon people, the
race whom God hath chosen in these latter days,
even as in olden times He chose the old-time Jews,
who, like the Lucknow heroes, fought for country
—other people’s country. Let The Bulletin
correct Savile Clarke, Esq., C.M.G.
“ A tale of the Siege of Lucknow.” We own we
felt the sway
Of the poet’s power of pathos; ’twas told in a
stirring way—
Of “ the terrible mutiny time ”—if mutiny accords
With the rising of patriot men against foreign
conquerors’ swords.
Whose guilt was the blood “of the men who stood
shoulder to shoulder sore smitten,
Fighting for ” conquest “ and Queen and bearing
the banner of Britain ? ”
Moving pity that “waving Tartans” were ever
thus needed to aid,
But bolstered by bloodshed all kingdoms must be
that by bloodshed are made ;
What though that “ peril ” thus “ended ” ? What
though that “ sorrow o’erpassed ” ?
Time’s revenge for the trouble of Lucknow’s a
certain equation at last;
Empires built by the sword shall yet fall by the
sword “in ruin and wrack,”
Hireling soldiers who strike for a wage bear a
banner that Freedom drives back.
Latest Cablegrams.
(FROM THE BULLETIN'S OWN CORRESPONDENT.)
A WELL-DESERVED HONOUR.
London, April the Someteenth.
It is rumoured that Mr. A. Bullhead, the emi-
ffQj Sydney journalist, will shortly be made a
K.C.M.G., in recognition of his valuable services
m maintaining the Australian rights of English
and American authors.
MAGNIFICENT MUNIFICENCE.
Mr. Henniker-Heaton, the member for Canter-
bury in the Conservative interest, having failed
to convince the Postmaster-General (the Right
Honourable Cecil Raikes) as to the remunerative-
ness of the penny postal system, has publicly
stated his intention of starting the same at his
own expense.
OBITUARY.
Mr. Buggins, head of the well-known firm of.
Buggins and Snooks, pork-sausage manufacturers,
is dead.
lEzekid Buggins was born in Brick Lane, Spitalfields.
on 30th March, 1849. He was of Jewish descent, which
probably accounts for the total absence of pork in the
article bearing his name. The world-celebrated “Buggins”
sausage, from the sale of which the deceased gentleman
amassed a colossal fortune, was his sole speciality. Dr.
Arthur Hill-Hassall, the Government analyst, shows its
ingredients in the following proportions•:—Bath-brick,
1.074, bone-dust 4.07, candlewick 80.9, green hide 7 196
hair-oii, 90.4.]
REPORTED ILLNESS OF THE KING OE
JUAN FERNANDEZ.
His Majesty the King of Juan Fernandez
(Robinson Crusoe’s Island) is reported to be
dangerously ill.
Later.
H-is Majesty the King of Juan Fernandez
(Robinson Crusoe’s Island), who was reported to
be dangerously ill, is now suffering a recovery.
A YOUNG COLONIAL STUDENT.
Master Michael O’Higgins, age 15, the son of a
well-known resident of Jamberoo, has successfully
passed the third-class examination of the College
of Preceptors.
NELLIGEN AND AUTONOMY.
The Times says that Sir Henry Parkes’s project
of granting autonomy to the township of Nelligen,
N.S.W., is premature.
London, Tuesday Evening.
Barney Brute-beast, the famous knocker-ont,
was married this morning at St. George’s, Han-
over-square, to Miss Fanny Erothem-up, late of
the Dog and Duck. Ned Knuckleduster acted as
picker-up for the bridegroom.
John L. Sullivan is dead. A subscription is
being raised to erect a national monument. Con-
gress will be asked to move a vote of condolence
with the Boston saloon-keepers.
Later.
John L. Sullivan isn’t dead. The boodler who
started the yarn has scooted with the tombstone-
fund.
IMPERIAL FEDERATION LEAGUE.
BANQUET AT ST. JAMES’S HALL.
IMPORTANT STATEMENTS BY LORDS
KNUTSFORD AND BRASSEY AND THE
AGENTS-GENERAL.
MR. HENNIKER HEATON ON THE
POSTAL SYSTEM.
A grand banquet was given last night at St.
James’s Hall, under the auspices of the Imperial
I ederation League. Lord Knutsford occupied
the chair. There were also present—Lords Rose-
bery, Brassey, St. Leonards, Deerhurst, and
Dunlo; the Agents-General of the various colo-
nies, and Mr. Henniker Heaton. In the course
of his remarks Lord Knutsford observed that
Sydney, the capital of Tasmania, possessed the
most beautiful harbour in the world. Lord
Brassey spoke of the imperative necessity of
creating a fortification at Uhr’s Point. Lords St.
Leonards and Deerhurst alluded in the most
flattering terms to the glorious institution of free
lunch in the colonies. Sir Saul Samuel, Agent-
General for New South Wales, was fully assured
that the fact of Australian mutton, fruit, and
potatoes being sold at a positive loss in the London
markets evinced a self-sacrificing spirit on the
part of the colonial producer that could not but
tend to strengthen the ties which already bound
the whole of Australasia to the dear old mother-
country. Sir Graham Berry, Agent-General for
Victoria, spoke at some length on the advantages
Victorians possessed for the cultivation of the
common or garden cabbage and the gigantic Aus-
tralian worm of the title-grovelling variety. Mr.
Henniker Heaton, who was enthusiastically re-
ceived, remarked that owing to the present
iniquitous postal system, the Sydney Muckrake,
a publication which undoubtedly carried more
weight than any other colonial organ, was not so
widely spread in the mother country as was to be
desired. However—[Owing to an interruption in
the cable, we are unable to give the rest of this
message.— Ed.]
Laurens, the hard-working Melbourne
M.P., is a Swiss, and had great difficulty in
learning English, as she is spoke. For years he
was a laughing-stock, on account of his droll way
of misplacing the syllabic accents. As a munici-
pal councillor he, of course, quickly learned the
proper official pronunciation of commyttee—the
Borough Council bonne bouche.
In a recent volume of Anecdotes of the
Clergy ” it is related that a corpulent clergyman
once rebuked Allan Cunningham for Sunday-
fishing. Quoth the poet “ Your external ap-
pearance, reverend sir, tells me that if your dinner
was at the bottom of the river, like mine, you
would angle for it though it were a fast-day, and
your Saviour stood by to rebuke you.”
Pritchard Morgan, once of North Queens-
land, now of the House of Commons, is to manage
the International Exhibition of Mining and
Metallurgy, which will open at the Crystal Palapo,
London, m July. As the Duke of Fife lias
graciously consented to bo honorary president of
the concern, it looks as though our old friend
W.P.M. is getting mixed up with Royalty, and
doesn’t smoke clay pipes any more.


[?]
846 Macquarie-street North, Sydney, April 30, 1890.
My Dear Moorabinda, —
The very latest Sydney fresco fad is to leave the face as
pale as paper with a pair of vivid red lips—a fever face, in
short—a visage that unless you were in the Movement,
you would bundle into the first ambulance you came
across, disinfecting yourself carefully afterwards. The
sickly style originated with a gold-topped Thespienne
whose cheeks, behind the floats, wear the dull hue of
pipeclay, and whose mouth is one warm crimson splodge,
and local womankind are trumping her ace in broad day-
light with flour and Indian ink. And, speaking of makes-
up, I was seated forninst a lady, at a theatre recently,
whose face was as peachy as a guinea doll’s. The cheek
w r as a soft pink hue, and the chin clotted-cream—but the
masterpiece was mounted on a coffee-coloured neck that
spread darkly to the roots of her hair and gave her right
away in one verse. Surely pearl-cream isn’t so priceless
that she couldn’t afford one wash for those portions of her
person cruelly revealed by her see-more draperies. A
peaches-and-cream cheek combined with parchment
sh'u’deis is the kind of thing that even Jonah’s whale
vveu’d have to enlarge his swallow over.
Apro x os of toilet trickeries, a very new idea is the
“ perfume pencil,” a shipload of which is expected next
mail by a well-known Sydney drug-firm. They are just
sticks of condensed scent, and if you draw them lightly
across your lips, ears,. eyebrows, palms, the result is a
subtle aroma that seems to belong to you naturally. For
engaged girls the idea is a boon, and Gussie, too, may
flavour his chin with moss-rose or wood violets and thus
throw an added sweetness over the good-bye business,
while the married man has only to pencil his cheekbones
with the scent his wife’s mother can’t bear and come out
lengths ahead of the maternal matutinal kiss. Another
thing, liquid perfumes go off more or less as soon as the
air reaches them, but you can carry a perfume pencil in
your purse and revive your sweetness whenever extra
pressure is desirable.
From wearing a tiny rosebud in his coat-collar the
modern masher—at least the Sydney variety—now goes
abroad with a bokay the size of a saucer. Four half-
blown rosebuds in a halo of fern is one style—a handful of
dahlias and autumn leaves is another. Nothing is too
flaring or too giddy for the baggy-outlined youth of
to-day, and the man who is satisfied with one sunflower
or one cabbage in his coat is regarded in fashionable circles
as an sesthetically-lost soul. I cannot say I admire this
floral outburst on the part of the shaven sex—l do not
think it becomes it. A blue chin ticked by a cluster of
purple dahlias is not soulful, and a red beard toying over
a knot of crimson roses does not appeal. I rather like a
white gardenia in an evening suit—it lights it up, but
these gaudy Strephonesque posies are unbearably silly.
I lately heard of a dance where a man—for a wager—wore
a lady’s breast-spray, reaching from the middle button of
his vest to his collar-bone, and he couldn’t get a partner
to save his life.
The inspired female who recently advanced the supposi-
tion that men are vainer than woman went very near the
truth, if she didn’t actually hit it. Watch a man in the
theatre—he will give a flying peep into the reflector he
passes, as his wife does. Watch him in the street— he
will always settle his hat after passing an advertising-
glass ; and right here I may be permitted to remark that
advertising round a mirror is a snare and a delusion, for
where is the man who ever looked into a glass to see any-
thing except himself? And where, O where, is the woman ?
Have you seen the metraphone? It is a sort of box,
with a big wheel which you fix on to the keyboard of the
piano, feed with special music, turn the handle, and then
revel in perfectly-executed melody, which minds the
marks itself, but which you regulate pp. or ff. with the
pedals. I was shown one at W. H. Paling’s music ware-
house, George-street, recently. The price is £2O, and for
people who cannot play, or people who give dances and
have a difficulty about yarding up a musician, the thing
is simply a gift. Going round the warehouse, I was struck
by the beautiful work on some of the hundreds of pianos
packed about everywhere. Black and gold is handsome
and decidedly ordinary too, but one lovely instrument in
dark polished woods, relieved with unpolished cedar, was
simply a work of art, while another was beautifully inlaid
with brass, and the prices inferred that all these frills
were thrown in as it were. By the by, I would like to
recommend the musical efforts sent me by this firm. One,
the “Melba” valse, dedicated to the diva, is very easy to
execute, and keeps a good throbbing minim melody that
a cripple could rotate to, while the second is a pretty,
effective song by Marzialls, “ Stay, Darling, Stay,” which
everybody will be singing soon.
The Mildred Birch benefit concert in Sydney Y.M.C.A.
Hall on 24th inst.. was kind of semi-vice-regal, Lord and
Lady Carington arriving at half-time and seeing the per-
formance out. The programme was fairly soothing, and
if Walter Sherwin (the S.M.H. said he wasn’t there) hadn’t
been a vocal mile beneath Miss Birch in their concluding
duet, and if only the audience had been a little more in
touch, things would have been simply dreamful. As it
was, if it hadn’t been for the Baron, who forced recep-
tions for the artistes, the gifted performers would have
come and gone in a cold,' damp silence like magic-lantern
slides. As for frocks, Lady Carington, who had come
from the Bourke flood meeting, wore black lace and silk
with a ruby plush mantelette, while, on the platform,
Miss Birch wore white ; Miss Violette, Assyrian red ; and
Miss Naylor (hon. accompanist) a tasteful gown in ivory-
white silk daringly relieved with black velvet and lace.
A large aggregate rushed the s.s. Australien, thelonges
ship ever in Port Jackson, by invitation, on 24th inst.,
when refreshments flowed in the gilded saloon and all the
officers spoke English. Occasionally one would hear a
tremulous voice remarking, “J’ai vu le vaisso avec
plaizheer,” but the inongseer addressed always replied
hastily in pure Saxon, and so another home-bred linguist
continued to blush unseen. The company was extremely
“ representative,” not to say mixed, and the only pretty
get-up I saw was in two shades of fawn with a tomato-
velvet hat.
I read that the Empress of Germany “ has placed her-
self at the head of a society of German ladies formed with
a view to effect economy in domestic management. They
have all vowed to be as saving as possible in their dress,
food, and other necessaries.” How beautiful ! but who
takes the pool ? Judging by appearances, the Empress
has many disciples in Australia. One distinguished lady
hasn’t had a distinctly new gown since she landed years
ago. Yet the Domain is full of unemployed.
The public ball in aid of the Carington Convalescent
Hospital furnishing fund will eventuate in the Exhibition
Building on Wednesday, 14th inst., in the presence of
Lord and Lady Carington, Lord Charles and Lady Scott,
et hoc genus ovine. The worthy object for which the ball
is held should ensure a large attendance of V-shaped
philanthropists, but I do hope the committee will not
squander money over the supper-table. Charity-ball re-
freshments should be of the simplest description, so as to
reduce the expenses as much as possible ; but, as a rule,
they are gorgeously lavish, engendering the base sus-
picion that the “ worthy charity ” is only a convenient
peg on which to hang champagne and turkey.
It is a cold day in Sydney when a show with tights in it
doesn’t hang out a S.R.O. board every evening in the
week. At the Criterion, on an off-night recently, I found
myself in a crowded house with Consul Griffin in the
front row and everything simply lovely. Carrie Swain
occupied a d.c. box in a bright blue satin gown with
netted pearl draperies, diamonds everywhere, white
plume fan, and a cream embossed satin opera-cloak edged
with swansdown ; while Mr. Carrie Swain wore gig-lamps
and played “ Peter says wiggle woggle ” during the wails.
Then a woman with a Julius-Gaesarian profile loomed in
the managerial box in deep, dark black ; a gushing thing
in red satin had larded herself with white glass beads like
a bazaar toilet-cushion; and a woman in a blue plush
wrap brought a cloth bag along in which she carefully
concealed her trotters from possible draughts in a way
that argued a long and arduous matrimonial experience
The two-and-sixpenny opening of the N.S.W. Horticul-
tural Society’s big Chrysanthemum Show happened in
Sydney Exhibition on 24th inst., when Lady Carington,
backed up by Gov. 0., inaugurated the proceedings in
dumb show from the dais. The attendance was large and
representative, and the dresses were nice, though very
far from new. Lady Carington wore pale-grey trimmed
with white Valenciennes lace, white gloves, black lace and
silk visite, white and grey bonnet with short white
strings and yellow flowers and a black lace and moire
parasol. Her ladyship also carried the white “ bridal ’’
bouquet presented to her by the committee. Mrs. Bur-
dekin (Mayoress) wore fawn relieved with darker velvet,
bonnet en suite. Two sisters looked “good form” in
workmanlike grey gowns with grey velvet capotes and
small grey birds. A pretty visitor from Brisbane wore
fawn and a flapdoodle black hat tied on with rather
faceachery effect with broad black ribbons. An historical
Sydney belle was radiant in dark blue with a fetching
brown hatlet; and a frisky female in bronze velvet,
braided in gold a la militaire, with a fawn felt hat and
biscuit plumes, looked like Offenbach’s Grand Duchess got
loose. There were a “ several few' ” exhibits mostly to be
expressed by notes of admiration—the gigantic chrysan-
themums abnormally developed and looking like great
silk}' mats, attracting throngs, the women in which all
said—“ How lovely,; what colouring !” with their eyes
glued to the back draperies of the female in front, to see
whether she was cut bias or whether there was cotton in
it. I did not affect the first-prize-decorated-dinner-table
—a damp bowery arrangement of all-coloured chrysan-
themums in a halo of maidenhair. There was too much
fern altogether, and the adornments generally were in-
compatible with the awful possibilities of elbows and
entries— the second prize-table being far more adaptable
for dining purposes in my humble opinion. No attempt
had been made to decorate the bare barn-like Exhibition,
which looked its very ugliest.
The complimentary concert tendered by the members of
the Hazon orchestra to Signor Hazon and Mr. S. Churchill
Otton at Sydney Exhibition on 26th ult., being the last of
these Concerts for the present, w'as very sw'ect sorrow
indeed. The “Tannhauser” overture was breathlessly
beautiful, and I think the romantic sketch of the poetical
motive of the various items given on the programme
tends to a deeper, more intellectual appreciation of the
chords and quavers than is possible when one has simply
to guess what the composer is talking about. After the
“Scherzo,” brilliantly evolved with orchestral accompani-
ment by Mrs. Percy' Jones (wearing a tasteful gown in
green silk and velvet and cream lace, which formed a
pleasing spot of cool colour on the platform of
black coats) a wreath of laurel of a size to in.
dioate a very swelled head on the part of the recipient was
handed to Signor Hazon and then half-time occurred, and
one could criticise the clothing. Lady Carington, w'ho is
looking positively radiant just now (a phase of counten.
ance caused, very probably, by the approaching vice-
regal departure) wore French grey veiling made very
plainly with a round skirt and dodged up with slate-grey
velvet and ivory-white lace and Directoire front of cream
chiffon ; bonnet in dawn-grey gauze with folds and short
strings of grey velvet and coronal of buttercups ; white
fall, pearl-grey gloves ; a large biack-and-gold fan, and a
black velvet, lace and passementerie visite to wear out-of-
doors. Lady Carington also carried a magnificent bouquet
presented by the management, composed of early violets>
autumn leaves, white carnations, and other rare blossom,
ings. Lady Robinson, who accompanied the vice-regal
party', wore a floral pongee in deep Indian red figured
white, relieved on the bodice with cream pongee ; coronet
bonnet in black passementerie trimmed with flat bow and
short strings of Indian red ribbon, white fall spotted
black, tan gloves, diamond bangles and earrings and gold'
edged pince-nez. Miss Walenn wore floral pongee in slate-
blue figured white, with relevements of white moire,
white straw hat adorned with cream-colour silk muslin.
Then the Baron wore a blue tie to match his eyes. Mayor
Burdekin, whose bow is a study in deportment, wore a
diamond ring and a tuberose nosegay ; Organist Best was
rainbowy in pink chow checks, blue cuffs, and old-gold
silk gloves. The platform was lavishly adorned with
draped pots of flowering “ ’santhemums,”
One so expects a bumper house when a show is V.R.
that the well-dressed d.c. throng at Her Majesty’s on 28th
ult. only' seemed a natural consequence with the guber-
natorial party in full war-paint (by the way, the latest
arrival among them showed far less boiled shirt than wa s
sported by the home-made dudelets), looming large in the
centre of the circle. Lady Carington wore pink striped
silk with front and semi-collar of cream lace, the bodice
made high but square in front, with elbow sleeves. Pink
roses and leaves and diamonds aigrette and bukole in the
hair ; white gloves ; diamond bangles ; Watteau fan, and
wrap of cream satin and lace made with a full cape—
a 'turnout in which her ladyship looked extremely
charming. In a stage-box sat Mrs. Rignold, wearing
geranium-red silk cut cl la gaberdine, with deep
lace collar, diamond brooch and earrings, in company
with Kate Bishop, in a puffy decollette Shakesperian gar-
ment in oream and pink and a big plume fan and white
kid gloves. Then “ Handsome George,” who looks inex-
pressibly lovely in evening dress, wore a blaze of shirt"
front and a big boutonniere, and wandered like a sham-
pooed seraph about the vice-regal box, and “ had a little
chat with the Guvnah ” during an interval. In “Nowa-
days ” Watts-Phillips as Jenny Dowling has all the
dressing. In Act 1 she sports a rather twopenny
coloured get-up in pearl-grey moire, relieved with ruby
velvet, with plumed hat en suite ; in Act 2, a tea-gown in
elephant’s breath cashmere, with grey velvet points and
cord and tassel girdle, in which she looks better than I have
previously seen her ; and in Act 3, a “motherly ” black
silk and passementerie gown, with a blush-rose bonnet
fitted on with black velvet strings. Which is all that occurs
to me at present, except that Jewett, as the bold bad
baronet, had la grippe, and Bessie Rignold, a gushing
maiden with a candied-honey delivery, more than ever
resembled a brunette edition of Lilian Gilmore.
Yours affectionately,
SAPPHO SMITH.
The Opening of the Mew South Wales
Parliament.
The New South Wales Parliament was opened
last Tuesday with the usual gorgeous satire upon
Parliamentary Government. Every bit of the
mummery practised on that occasion, from the
booming of cannon to the masquerading in Court-
dress of our old but misguided friend, ‘ Larry ”
Harnett, symbolised the antithesis of all that a
people’s Parliament is supposed to assemble for.
Not that we dislike the scenic effect produced by
Larry in silk stockings and abbreviated pantaloons.
As mere specimens of anatomy his calves are
worth going a long way to see, and without them
the show would be tame indeed. Larry has a
splendid calf and is well paid for exhibiting it
under the most favourable conditions. The
usher of the Black Rod is also obliged to ap.
pear in a scanty abridgment of his everyday pants,
but that in this cold weather is an act of wanton
cruelty to the poor old soul which an indignant
populace, on grounds of common humanity, ought
to rise up and resent. For some time before the
arrival of the Governor, the assembled multitudes
have the privilege of viewing Mr. Harnett strutting
about the passage with them “all on,” He seems
to be doing nothing in particular, except showing
his calves and seeking to devise plans for frustrat-
ing the efforts of his toy sword, which cherishes
an evidently sinister design to tangle itself up
amongst the crowd, and jab the eyes out of inno-
cent sight-seers. 'The admiring glances of the flower
of Potts Point beauty, and the blossom of Black-
wattle Swamp chivalry which follow him where-
ever he goes, however, afford full compensation for
all this trouble, and Larry is happy. It is always
a moot question what attracts so many ladies to
the stupid and dry “function” of a Parliamentary
opening. To flutter round “dear Lady Carington”
is no doubt one of the factors which constitute
the centripetal force; but whether the centre of
gravity resides in Larry’s divine calves or
in the gubernatorial uniforms is a point
which we cannot undertake to settle. The
arrival of the Governor himself is heralded by
a blaze of military uniforms, the symbol of Im-
perialism, and by-and-bye appears a yawn and
a moustache, with a very nice and amiable, but
perennially tired-looking man attached to them,
whom we would like to see put to better use than
that of typifying Kingcraft, of which this mili-
tarism is always the kind handmaid. The assem-
bled grovellers cheer this humiliating spectacle,
and peaceful pot-hats are doffed in rapture or
reverence before the symbol of ancient despotism
under which their wearers’ ancestors had the salt
rubbed into them until the institution of Par-
liamentary Government curtailed in some degree
the provisional privileges of their opponents.
What on earth there is in the sight of these
iirsignia of their grandfathers’ degradation for a
New South Wales populace to cheer at we cannot
imagine.
* # *
But let that pass, and take a glance at
the assembled Commons in the Chamber. They
are all in their Sunday clothes and clean
shaves are as prevalent amongst them as
is the influenza. The Ministers sported dress-
suits, and Mr. Melv.lle, who will “get there” j et,
was also conspicuous in the garb of fashion.
Ninny alleges that it is incumbent on him to rig
out thus by virtue of his billet as Chairman
of Committees, but the excuse is as transparent as
that of the fat Temperance lecturer who pretends
that he must have brandy to keep his appetite up.
At the same time we don’t upbraid him-Ninny
is going for the Speakership bye-and-bye and
it is necessary that ho should lie up in lavender
for some time so as to get rid of the political
odour of the Domain stump and the Newtown
coffin-shop. However, he, like another distin-
guished legislator, “dussn’t say it on the ustins,
you know,” at Northumberland. There was very
little change in the disposition of parties since
last the House prorogued, though there was evi-
dently a good deal of uncertainty as to how the
cat was going to jump. Two new members were
sworn in, the oath which they took binding them
to “ render faithful service to Her Majesty the
Queen and her heirs,” including Tummy and
Collars and Cuffs, but saying nothing at all about
the people of New South Wales, who will have to
pay them their monthly cheques. One of these
was a Freetrader and the other a Protectionist, so
that their election does not affect the party balance
in any way. The Freetrader was Mr. Vivian, a nice,
chirpy-looking gentleman with his hair parted so
impartially in the centre that each ear will have
an equal chance to flap. Mr. Vivian also possesses
a perky beard and an alleged set of political
principles, together with a silky voice, and he
evidently stands well with his tailor. On
the other hand, Mr. Miller, the Protectionist
recruit, has a clean-shaved, melancholy face, and
might pass in a crowd for a comedian or an
undertaker. Gustave Thomas Carlyle Miller is
how he signed himself in the Parliamentary
roll-book. After that performance he retired
to the Opposition cross-benches, and seemed
to pass the rest of the time in trying to
puzzle out whether he had been suddenly trans-
lated to heaven or dropped into the other place.
For the rest, the opening of this session of Parlia-
ment was not different from any of these tiresome
and utterly meaningless farces. What the session
will bring forth, however, is the all-absorbing point.
This will all depend on whether the Opposition
determine to show fight or not. If they do, a dis-
solution will be the immediate outcome. If not—
well, they will all sit down and enjoy their £3OO a
year in a nice, sociable manner, remembering the
touching maxim about the little birds who forbear
from prudential reasons to quarrel in their little
nests. From the general appearance of things it
is probable that the latter course will be adopted,
and that the spectacle of Mr. O’Sullivan sitting
on a busted bale of imported calico to sketch the
ruins of Treasurer M‘Million’s soft-goods shop
Avill be indefinitely postponed.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Theatre Royal “LaTosca.”
Her Majesty's “ Now-a-Days.”
Criterion “ The Beggar Student.”
School op Arts Maocabe.
Gaiety Theatre .... “ Sweet Lavender.”
Y.M.O.A. Hall Miss Menk-Meyer.
Darlxngtiurst Seating Rink.
All the principal characters in “ La Tosca ”
are killed off nightly. Two suicide, two are
murdered, one legally ; as the diva says : “ The
days of the Borgias are over, but you still murder.”
The death-falls of Kyrle Bellew and Edward Sass
are remarkably fine examples of violent stage-
mortality, but the manner of Mrs. Brown-Potter’s
taking-off, like most of her business in the last
act, lacks impressiveness. Imagine such an exit
by a great actress : the agony of the last mute
farewell with her dead lover, the weirdness of her
defiant speech to the guards, the unhurried agility
with which the battlements are ascended, -the
blank misery of the last backward glance, the
hopeless horror of the blood-curdling scream that
accompanies her side-long leap into eternity, and
the cold shiver that it would send through the
audience. The performance has much improved
since the first night of representation, though the
lady’s third act is still, wo think, her best.
Edward Sass, whose acting is natural and un-
forced, but of the “ Jack Saxton” brand, is either
bound over by contract not to hug hard, or else
fears to break something.
X * -;ii x
’Tis twenty years since the writer first saw
Frederick Maccabe, yet to-day there is little
apparent alteration in either the man or his en-
tertainment. In fact, the first part of “Begone
Dull Care,” with its inimitable “street minstrel,”
its fine impersonation of the lady-killer (this type
is nearly extinct), the naively humorous rendition
of “I’m not myself at all, Molly, dear !” and a
good gastriloquial exhibition, performed without
the assistance of dolls or the cover of a moustache,
is far ahead of any monologue show that ever visited
these shores, “The Magic Statue,” however,
lacks the bouquet of age, its dialogue is feeble
and hackneyed, and although the charming and
refined Mdlle. Minuia dances beautifully and
poses gracefully, yet this whole act fails to harmo-
nise with the class of entertainment bearing the
stamp “Maccabe.” “Cruel Mary” is a musical
atrocity that might be omitted with advantage,
and, in future, the management ought to reverse
the order of things and dish up their best wine at
the end of the feast.
** X X
“ Now-a-Days ” still holds its own in
public favour. The acting of William Rignold, as
Jack Saxton, in the reconciliation scene with his
son, may be safely pronounced one of the most
natural and unexaggerated emotional displays
that the stage has lately witnessed, but why
Ayrton should simply smother himself with pow-
der to simulate sickness is not evident. The weak
part in the production is that the longer it runs,
the longer will the Beautiful George be kept off the
Sydney boards.
“Nemesis,” with its attractive and tv ell-
sung music, was withdrawn on Wednesday
evening to make way for a revival of the sparr-
ling “ Beggar Student,” the company’s trump-
card, with the same cast as on its last Sydney
production.
The Carnival at the Darlinghurst Skating
Rink on Wednesday evening last was a very bril-
liant affair. Only those arrayed in fancy or
evening dress were allowed to perform, and the
hall was deeply fringed with spectators. Professor
Twohey’s impersonation of “M‘Solikey’s first
visit to the rink,” was very laughable ; and a first-
cla-s band was in attendance.
Business at Bondi Aquarium is pretty
well, thank you. “Jolly” John Nash and a first-
rate company have been charming the fish out of
the tanks lately. “ Jolly John ” sailed for Kngland
in the Cuzco, and fresh talent has been laid on to
fill the void. The Bondi Sunday concerts are just
at present the best good thing of the day.
* X X- *■
“A Noble Vagabond,” at Melbourne
Royal, is a furious bag of mystery, in which the
decayed • carcase of a dead miser shares human
interest with a lot of maypole dancing, boxing-
matches, and the self-sacrificing conduct of an
elderly youth in top-bo jts. A very mad female,
who is kept locked up in a coal-cellar for fear she
might prove her sanity, is likewise a horrible
ingredient in the composition of the dramatic
polony, and it is' owimr to this gruesome crea-
ture’s mania for poking her cadaverous nose into
the show, at awkward moments, that the tradi-
tional villain in a brown overcoat gets properly
showui up in reasonable time. If “A Noble
Vagabond ” weie not overloaded with incidents—
mostly powerful, but frequently preposterous— he
might hope to flourish at the Royal for many
weeks. But, what with his family likeness to
several other recent dramas and his painful
position throughout, it is to be feared that the
strong tide of opposition now coursing madly
through Smollbourne will sweep “ A Noble Vag. ”
off his top-boots at a comparatively early date.
Nevertheless, the entertainment possesses real
merit, both as a melodrama and a circus. An
oppressive sense of satiety, arising from constant
doses of Charles Warner, prevents the public mind
from doing justice to this actor’s latest effort, yet,
judged on its individual merits, it is a stirring,
picturesque, artistic performance of a part which
no other actor in Australia could attack with like
success. The author, H. A. Jones, lias doomed
his hero, however, to carry off a dead old miser,
dress himself up in his noisome garments, and then
fake hisown face, form and voice intoliving counter-
feits of the late lamented, whom he, the hero, had
only met for five minutes. The very success, of
Mr. Warner’s metamorphosis emphasises the ab-
surdity of this situation. Herbert Flemming,
Captain de Burgh, George Walton and Fred.
Neebe fill their respective billets with ability,
while the brief life of the aged money-grubber
gives Newton Griffiths a chance to put in the
best work he has ever been guilty of in Melbourne.
The ladies, headed by Miss Clara Cowper, are not
of great service to “A Noble Vagabond,” but
scenery and side-shows are luxuriantly laid on.
$£
With “Caste,” recently a source of ad-
miration in Sydney, the Brough-Boucicault com-
pany are booked for a long run at Melbourne
Bijou. That moss-grown chestnut “a consensus
of opinion,” reckoned up Saturday’s show as a
local revelation in Robertsonian comedy, and a
distinct triumph all along the line. “ Caste ”is
one of the few delicately-constructed plays which
stir the imagination of all classes and strike a
responsive chord in every human heart on the


A GHOST
is not a photograph, nor a photo, a ghost—bnt a good photo, is a
true reflection of the original. For high-art photos, go to the
London Palace of Art, 10 Park-street, Sydney. Country photographers’ work from developement
to completion executed at lowest prices. Bromides a speciality, Staff of artists kept for working up.
The Bulletin’s latest imitator is tixe West
Australian Bulletin, which does its godfather
the honour of making up about half each issue
with unacknowledged original matter from these
columns.
The Sydney Press Institute the other
evening held a “ Lamentation ” dinner, as a sort
of solace for the pending opening of the N.S.W.
Parliament, and then, in unconscious irony, they
allowed a journalist to distort his features and
bore them with a diatribe whose delivery, from
carefully-prepared shorthand notes, occupied an
hour. For a fine vein of unrecognised humour,
give us a Sydney stenographer.
“The Cornstalk.” —The newpenny illustrated
Sunday paper. Sporting, dramatic, and general
news. Startling serial story. Publishing offices,
527 Keiit-street, Sydney. Agents wanted in the
suburbs and throughout the colonies. All literary
contributions paid for, Amongst the contributors
are “Boxer Major,” “Dainty Ariel,” “Tackle-
low,” “Timi Piripi,” “The Colonel,” and-
“ Homeopathist. ”
premises. The story is as bright and interesting
to-day as when it was written, and the perform-
ances of, say, Anson, Brough and Miss Romer
seem to be beyond the reach of earthly fault-find-
ing. Pattie Browne, perhaps, is developing a
dangerous tendency to magnify the part of Polly
Eccles, and her high-spirits are overproof in one or
two instances, but she is a pretty, pleasing, popular
Pollie all the same. The others are so near perfec-
tion that it makes no difference, and Titheradge’s
recognition of his baok-from-the-grave comrade
deserves special mention in a small way. “Caste”
cannot fail to have a splendid time at the new
theatre. The eternal fitness of things, however,
requires that Robertson’s venial error, sanctified
though it has been by long tolerance at the hands
of the nobility and gentry, should be corrected
now-a-days. If the haughty St. Maur dame is a
French marquise her son can’t be “ the honourable
George.” And if she is an English marchioness,
then her beloved boy is a courtesy lord. Toorak
expects these little matters to be fixed up in the
completest style possible.
* * -*■
Two performances of “Paul Jones”
crammed the Opera House twice over on Satur-
day. The matinee receipts something over
£2oo—were sent to Bourke by telegraph while the
show was proceeding, and prayers for Nellie
Stewart have since been popping up in all parts of
that submerged township where such things can
be said with safety,
$K- $K- *
When J. L. Toole in Melbourne started,
His good old method was admired :
So “ nice ” he seemed, so jovial-hearted—
The sort of change the boys required ;
But after weeks of J. L. Tooleing—
A dose of light or heavy fooling—
Of jester Johnny’s good old schooling,
The boys are growing rather tired.
The feeble “Dot” production of last week gave
public confidence in J.L.T. a nasty jar, and “ The
Don ” will probably be a mild frost when this
prophecy appears in print. No language would
be too strong to chuck at the Don if he were worth
the trouble. Regarded as J. L. Toole individu-
ally, or the important company collectively,
“The Don” is destitute of interest, sense,
or humour, except as regards the raising of
prices to see such weak stuff so feebly in-
terpreted. This damp squib splutters till Satur-
day, as per usual arrangements, and then
the comedian appears as Paul Pry, and in “Off
the Line.” By the way, the Argus has allowed
some dreadful creature to devote three solemn
columns to stories of Toole’s funny ways in Mel-
bourne shops, and on tram-cars, &c. The extreme
puerility, not to say vulgar impudence, of the
practical jokes narrated
in this sad history makes
one wonder whether
Toole has, in the course
of his mirthful sallies,
ever encountered a “sub-
ject ’’ who landed him
one in the waistcoat and
made him feel funnier
than usual. The fact
that Toole is a spoilt
joker, however, doesn’t
affect his chances of fetch-
ing them with “ Paul
Pry.”
*# # *
Yes, Johnny Toole
has found his Hatton in
Melbourne, to go round
with him and shorthand
all his foolishness. This
little old gentleman of
sixty goes about Mel-
bourne doing bits of
practical jokery like
Sothern, ashefancies, but
of course everyone knows
him, and the tradesmen
he victimises treat him
as the London draper did
the fashionable lady
kleptomaniac, when all
she stole was put down
treble on the bill. Toole’s
ear-flapper is one Hart,
who has managed to get
nearly three columns of T°°le’s Melbourne jokery
inserted in the leading jou vn al! The most stupid
rubbish you ever read, but a ll the Johnnies are so
delighted. When Toole buys white kid gloves,
he snips them with the shopman’s scissors, be-
cause he prefers ’em ventilated ! His insane non-
sense puts one in mind of Mr. Bultitude, in “Vice
Versa,” or the cranky old gent who hung cucum-
bers over the wall to Mrs. Nickleby, and shouted
out “Woosh !”
** * *
“My Jack ” is holding his own, ah
Alexandra prices, against the strongest force of
attractions ever yet mustered in one city here-
abouts. The company at large have visibly im-
proved in “My Jack,” and the influenza, or some-
thing, toned down Boothman’s voice and stalk,
with pleasing results, these last few days. The
drama ean certainly give points to others that
have succeeded on the same large stage, and the
lighthouse scene, by itself, would suffice to hold
op a show not half so lively as this in other
respects.
«!;- * * *
Other places scoop their share of pilgrims,
•lolly Nash is to make his two final appearances
with the Rickards Co., at the Gaiety, to-night and
to-morrow. The Cogills continue to squeeze a
dividend out of a good nigger minstrel entertain-
ment, their latest atrocity being a black tragedy
called “Haul Jones.” Harmston’s Circus is
established on somebody’s freehold allotment,
next to the Hibernian Hall, and Mr. Charrington
has added insult to injury by delivering a lecture
on that pre-RaphaeJite philosopher, Henrik Ibsen,
the Athenaeum. He might better employ his
tune in writing an essay on George Darrell.
** * *
At Sydney Gaiety the best, perhaps, of
■Pinero’s works, “Sweet Lavender,” holds the
boards, and as Dick Phenyl will probably be
trank Thornton’s last Australian impersonation,
mere can be little doubt that the reason will con-
cllide, as it began, with crowded houses, We can
°my afford space in this issue to speak favourably
° the performances of Messrs. Thornton, Brown,
and Gates and the Misses Taylor and Lee.
»* * *
‘Master and 3VT;ni, a drama by Sims and
-Pettit, whose colonial rights are held by Bland
, m has not yet been held up as a target for
criticism in either Melbourne or Sydney; it is likely
obe-a big success at the Adelaide Royal, thanks
Principally to the faultless way with which it is
j aged. One scene especially—the interior of an
ron -foundry with furnaces ablaze —is exception-
'uy effective. A. R. Lawrence, as the hump-
acked foreman, has all the fat to himself, and his
Performance is most praiseworthy. He proposes
to a pretty girl, who doesn’t care to wed a freak ~f
nature, and loves a young inventive engineer.
A. Glover is an injured workman whose wife goes
away with his master, the ironfounder, and who
is foolish enough to grieve over his loss. Bland
Holt appears in a character which has no-
thing to do with the piece, but he makes plenty
of fun out of it, assisted by Mrs. Holt and
H. R. Roberts. The cast is strengthened by
a bull-dog with a partiality for baggy trousers, a
cow, several farm-yard pets, and other characters
to numerous to mention. Edwin Thorne is the
inventor, and if he would construct one for his
own annihilation he would confer a lasting benefit
on a long-suffering public. Albert Norman and
Gus Glover get through with much credit, while
Maggie Knight (now quite recovered) is equal to
every emergency as the persecuted heroine, and
W. H. Seagrave is a cut above the ordinary police-
inspector. The Cogill Brothers’ Company ar« “till
at Garner’s Theatre doing well.
** * *
It is probable that Toole will take some of
our most promising mummers and musicians
“ home ” with him to openings in London. We
wonder what those who are left behind will think
of Toole’s judgment and his powers as a comedian ?
* * *- *-
The old prison hulk Success is on show at
Port Melbourne railway pier, at a shilling admis-
sion, and there has been a deal of gushing over its
horrors, whereas the place always was a paradise
compared to Pentridge Gaol to-day, which is con-
ducted on the principle of revenge and cruelty.
After Howard reformed the prisons it was felt
that kindness went too far, and now there is a
relapse into the old style, while any amount of
lying is kept up about the humanity of our
prisons. Now and then a groan escapes, like the
bubbles on the water when the dog-inspector is
drowning all his victims in the big tank.
* * * *-
The Victorian Orchestra that rickety
monument erected by a few wealthy faddists to
the memory of Erederic Hymen Cowen —crumbles
slowly and surely to decay. By July next, at the
latest, Apollo will be informed that his services
are not further required in Melbourne—at least
not in classical garb. Only a few months since a
first-class harpist was enticed out from “home”
on the understanding that the band was a
“ permanency.” After about six months’
engagement he will have to tie his instru-
ment up to a wattle-tree, as his ancestors
did when they sat by the water and wept up Baby-
lon way. Local industry has been too much for
the “Victorian” orchestra. The “critics” all
grovelled to Cowen, but when he left, the local
Liedertafels, not the Victorian orchestra, were
ANSWER TO “THE BULLETIN” FEDERATION
PUZZLE.
The three new colonies will be North Queensland, the
Northern Territory of South Australia, and North West
Australia. An inn is often called a pub; place a letter
from this word in the space representing these colonies; read-
ing from S. Australia round by W. Australia, you have the
future Australian “Republic.”
attended to. Why, the Age the other day as
much as said that Plumpton’s band at the Opera
House was vastly superior to the V.O. For some
time past the itinerant harp and two violins of
Little Bourke-street have drawn bigger “ houses ”
than the imported Wagnerians. There is no
bickering or jealousy in the musical world !
** # *
John Ice, a Broken Hill acrobat, has re-
ceived his ten years from Mr. Justice Nemesis
Windeyer for kicking and beating the life out of a
young professional charge. The poor kid wasn’t
slippery enough for Ice ;
John Ice, John Ice, of Broken Hill,
No word by us is spoken
In your behalf; we hope you will
Yourself get ill and broken ;
A lot of men do we regard
As master-t of all vices,
Yet none possess a heart more hard,
More hard and cold t han Ice’s.
At Poverty Point.
How these musicians love one another ! This is true to
nature:—Signor Vermicelli: Vot? You tink zat-a man
can-a sing ? He no can sing so much-a as my brudder who
sell-a da banan* an’ da peanut. He haf try to-a sing in
Italia, an’ vot you link ? Do people zay trow-a on da
stage da dead-a cat, an’ zay call out and make so—hiss-s-s!
He-a run avay so fast he could. Hees moustache ees
false an’he haf no teeth. How-a old you-a tink he ees ?
Forty-fife? Ha ha ! He vas secxty-fife last veek. He no
can sing. Hees vife she lofe-a me-send-a me plenty
flower ven I sing. Da papers praise me blenty time—say
mia voice magnifico, my Fausto superb, ah. Zay say
Vaselini he no-a-good—voice all-agone. Corpo de Bacco’,
vy he try-a to sing I know-a not. He make-a me seeck !
Signor Vaselini—Come to-night, you see-a da plenty fun.
“Lucia” veel be played, and Vermicelli he veel seeng
Edgardo. He-he ! I veel laugh myself seeck ven I hear
heem ; zat man he b.af no voice. Voice-a vas pretty good
twenty-fife year gone by. Me remember in Milan at La
Scala he haf try to sing. Ven he sing tree note ze people
cry out vat you call “ Rats,” and zey groan an’ trow by
heem ze cabbago-a head an’ ze eggs. He haf to fly for
hees life. You know he vears a vig? Si; an’ a cork-a leg
also. He go efery day an’ buy a bouquet to send heeself
Ven he seeng. He write heeself lofo-letters, an’ say he
makes da mash on la signorina. He make-a me seeck !
The American “ Boy Preacher ” hasarrived in England.
He was “called” from a cotton-field to preach the
Gospel. Only weighs fifty pounds, and never fails to con-
clude his exercises with a collection.
A consummate and notable piece of front in Melbourne
is Chas. Charrington’s announcing a lecture on Ibsen, at
the Athenaeum, with the prices 5s and 3s ! —in a freezing
'■ 'dl where such artistes as Macoabe and Frank Lincoln
| ) ' SOo o ht the public to come to them at 3s, 2s, Is. Wt
is emulating poor Arthur Sketohley, who
took the Ati„, Itoum f ol . Mrs. Brown, but found that
scarce a brown u.i ne to the pigeon-hole.
“ Jimmy ” Moore, , v ho, it is said, returns soon to his old
position at Melbourne Royal, has invented a box for
carrying eggs long journey-; Jf lle cou i,i invent a box for
the cheap transmission of stale companies how the firm
would bless him !
Watts-Phillips’ “Theodora” is said by some London
critics to be a much better play than the Sardou-Bern-
hardt production.
Young Benson’s Hamlet is of the dark, lean order, with
wild, black hair and heavy eyes. Although given to
ranting somewhat, Benson’s reading of the “ mad Prince”
—he takes Goethe’s view of the character that the poor
Prince “ represents the effect of a great action laid upon
a soul unfit for the performance of it - a moral nature
sinking beneath a burden which it cannot bear and must
not cast away”—is not without merit and full of new
points.
_ Signor Succi has completely knocked out John the Bap-
tist. He fasted forty days at the Westminster Aquarium
with never a locust or a drop of honey to fill the aching
void. The cable says that he lost 2st. Oil)., or a third off
his weight. This is surely nonsense ; Succi must have
weighed more than 7st. 41b. at the start, or he never
could have succidcd.
Arthur Lawrence’s performance of Humpy Logan in
“ Master and Man ” at Adelaide Royal is highly praised by
the local press.
The Star’s leader-writer, in an article that wanders out
from nowhere in particular in search of the unattainable,
declares that the local theatrical critics have graduated
iu grocery-stores and livery-stables.
Grade Plaisted has joined the Croftons at Calcutta, and
is playing “ My Sweetheart” with much acceptation.
Good yarn about Sothern. He once had a very beauti-
ful woman and a very poor actress in his company—she
since married a peer and is noted for her good dinners ai d
her avoirdupois—who thought no small beer of herself,
and, although playing a small part, spread herself so
frightfully at rehearsal on one occasion that no one got a
show. Never a word said Sothern ;he simply ordered a
bill to be printed with the lady’s name starred in large
type, “ supported by the following ladies and gentlemen.”
Then followed the names of the company, ending up with
Sothern’s in the smallest type of all. The bill was hung
up in the theatre, and the haughty one’s pride at once
came down the requisite number of pegs.
Manager Goodman says that mad people are like moths
—they always flutter round the big lamps outside the
theatres.
The Sydney Cyclorama will be thrown open at a bob
next Saturday to the public and the gross proceeds will
go to the Bourke Flood Belief Fund. R. T. Booth, of
temperance fame, who fought at Gettysburg will probably
lecture.
Mr. Justice Chitty hopes that in future members of the
theatrical profession will arrange disputes privately
instead of parading their quarrels before the public.
Innocent Chitty.
Mrs. Burnett lias built another three-act play round a
golden-haired kid, founded on “Editha’s Burglar.” The
latest calamity is known as “Nixie,” and the child doesn’t,
have to squeeze ample proportions into pantaloons, we
sincerely trust.
The “Fauntleroy” boom in America is dying out.
Thank Heaven !
The guarantors lose £2900 on the Victorian Orchestra
during the year.
Miss Florence Menk-Meyer’s opening piano recital at
the Sydney Y.M.C.A. Hall on May 6 will be rendered a
fashionable event by the attendance of Lord and Lady
Carington and the Mayor and Mayoress. Those, there-
fore, who don’t know a note of music can yet attend and
solace their souls with idolatry. The young pianiste and
composer takes up her quarters at the Grosvenor on
arrival.
At a semi-public rehearsal the manager of the Opera
House (N.Y.) created quite a sensation by advancing to
the footlights, and saying in sepulchral tones—“ Ladies
and gentlemen, I’m sorry to say that some of the ladies
have no dresses. You won’t mind, will you?” The
gentlemen kindly said they didn’t.
Kate Chard, well-known in Australia in connection with
Deane Brand and opera-bouffe, particularly “Boccaccio”
and “Olivette,” has joined Amy Roselle, the reciter, and
Vanoni, the dancer-vocalist, at the Empire. This is
reversing the practice of the Misses Russell, Fitzhenry
(Emily Soldene), Florence St. John, Camille D’Arville,
and Nellie Power (she drifted back*) who graduated in
music-halls and afterwards came out as full-blown actresses
or operatic artistes. So far as pay is concerned, the
music-hall performer has nearly always the best of it.
Mrs. Shaw, the pretty American sifflev.se, has refused,
it is said, an offer of marriage from a British peer. The
American songstress cares not to warble in a gilded cage.
A new game for American dead-heads is to come down
with a gallery-ticket and a bald-head tothestalls-entranoe
ere the performance commences, there asking entrance for
a moment to communicate with friends. Once inside, the
dead-head dons a wig and thus gets a dollar seat for 25
cents, as the usher usually fails to recognise him after-
wards in his curly wig.
A certain Melbourne paper now publishing the bio-
graphies of various persons, obscure and otherwise,
should he warned against the monotonous and damnable
iteration with which each thus glorified individual is made
out to be the best and brightest star in his own particular
line, whether as actor, vocalist, or critic, that ever graced
the Southern or any other Hemisphere.
The ever “Green Bushes” was to succeed “London
Day by Day” at London Adelphi.
Minnie Palmer has purchased the American and Aus-
tralian rights of “Fool’s Mate.” This cut is not deserved
by “ yours merrily.”
It turns out that Arabella Goddard was not half so
badly off as reported. Anyhow, she got a good benefit.
£OOO is not to be sneezed at.
Owing to eye-weakness, David James is for the present
out of all engagements.
We learn from the Star’s amusement index of April
23 that “My Jack ” is running at Her Majesty’s, “ Ours ”
at the Criterion, and the “Octoroon” at the Theatre
Royal.
Arabella Goddard says that it is interesting to hear
children pla> well, hut that it is bad for the nerves of the
children. And their neighbours’ also.
He had only one eye, and that wasn’t a very bright one,
and so when he toddled out of the sunlight into the sale
at the Museum he couldn’t see very clearly. About 400
people were assembled, and the little dealer got badly
trodden on ; but on a raised part of the floor he saw a
company of real toffs who were not so crowded. They
were wax-figures, and the auctioneer was just about to
sell them, but little “Yerasheep” didn’t know that, and
so he stumbled up among them, nearly knocking over
Parnell, to whom he at once tendered a most respectful
apology ere subsiding near Stanley, the exploiter. Then
he got mortally afraid all at once of stepping on the
robes of Mary, Queen of Scots, whom he took for Lady
Carington, and so, seeing a big space between Stanley and
the wall, he civilly asked that grabber to move over a
little way. Stanley, it must he a remarkably fine likeness,
didn’t shift a peg, so the little chap got annoyed, and
during a lull in the bidding—they had just knocked
down Queen Victoria for thirty bob—threateningly raising
his little right hand he said angrily—“ Want the whole
museum, I reckon ; don’t you?”
Some thirty years ago, attached to one of the Melbourne
theatres was a prompter named Douglass. He had to
give up work, having had a stroke of paralysis, and got
into very low circumstances. To make “ a rise,” his wife,
a very little woman, manfully undertook to walk 1000
miles in 1000 consecutive hours. This feat she accom-
plished on a track in the local Olympic Theatre. The
game little woman offered to repeat the feat, but her
“ pluck ” had found her friends, and there was no need to
repeat it. The Flying Pieman—whom old Sydneyites will
remember —did 1000 quarter-miles iu 1000 quarter-hours
in a paddock at the hack of the Fitzroy Hotel, Maitland,
in November, 1847.
The performers at a certain theatre have good reason
to complain of the manner in which a certain manager
occasionally thrusts lady-pupils into leading parts. It is
grossly unfair to the public who pay to see good acting
unfair to the performers who have devoted their lives to
Studying: their profession, and also unfair in a different
direction to the pupils. There is no royal road to acting ;
your Langtrys and Brown-Potters may achieve a certain
amount of not altogether deserved success, we can only
ask : how much greater, how much more meritorious,
would it have been had they served their theatrical
apprenticeship?
CORRESPONDENCE
“Waraiine”; You are quite right; we are by
no means proud of it.... “John Floyd”: Have you yet
4'ot redress? If not, please write “Mopoke”; Many
thanks “Miner”: Anti-climax much too slangy
“Ada”: Diction good, but wanting in information....
“Boz”: Too wordy; may cut down “H.T.E.”:
Scarcely good enough; try again.... “J.D.” (Wollon-
gong): Thanks....“ H.R.” (T , Vic.): Yes, we can do
something with it. We can put it into the waste-paper
basket.... “ Misanthrope ” : Hardly good enough....
’‘Clifford Lane”; On the whole, you are; as we don’t
know your weight “how much” it is impossible to say.
.... “ A.W.8.” (Coree): On economic questions Salomons
might more fitly be called Shallow-man “ John Gray ‘
Swan Hill); The publication of the book, “A Golden
Shanty,” has been unavoidably delayed for a few week:»
but will be forwarded promptly on completion. ..
“Marco” (S.A.): How could we get our living on a
Dountry paper ? How could we, to please one of the local
T.s P., screw ourselves up to writing: “ The excellently-
Sressed window of Mr. Brown’s store reflects great credit
an his energetic assistant, Mr. Buggins”?. ..“A Queens-
lander ” : How can the law of a state which has abolished
aid to religion and is, in fact, a secular State, justly take
special cognisance of robbery from a church? .“ L.A.0.” ;
The Bulletin strongly suspects that the medical faculty
has had a loan of the Australian public over the grippe
business... “ Akers ” (S’field); Why shouldn’t a clergy-
man swing a lady? We should think that a clergyman
woidd be the very best and safest man in the world to
swing a lady.... “Old Forty”: Another dose of such
terse will go a long way towards inducing us to adopt
your views on capital punishment “A Sufferer”:
Tub Bulletin should certainly reach Coonamble before
Monday, but surely the state of the country excuses mail
delay to some extent “D.6.G. ”: Unsuitable
“ 6 B’s ” : Can’t say that we appreciate your jokes. They
might pass muster in Tonga.... “ Jay Kay ”: Thanks.'...
“ Novice” : Yes, we pay for poetry, likewise verse, when
we can get hold of any “ Joe the Whaler ” : Very un-
evenly written ; with much alteration might do “ Bun-
yip”: If you have any down on Parkes just send
him your verses direct; we have never wronged you...
“Anthos”: The great Blair Athol, by Stockwell, who
won many races, including the Derby, and was sold
for 12,500 guineas as a stud-horse, never visited Aus-
tralia. He probably sleeps at Eltharn, in Kent
“W. Lewis”: Many thanks “ J.W.” (Cullingbone);
Thanks....“ Serpentine ” (Yarrayne): In a word, you
want us to tip the five best horses for Melbourne Cup. In
simple justice to our readers we never undertake such re-
sponsibilities ... “ Cooranbine ” : Send it to Melbourne
Standard, which “ wants a proportion established between
the numbers of ‘ Her Majesty’s subjects ’ admitted into
and residing in China, and the numbers of the sons of the
Flowery Land to whom domicile might be permitted in
‘Her Majesty’s Dominions.’”..Tommy M‘C.”: We
are tired of bogus sermons. Send us something we can
lay hold of “Gaffney”: The Bulletin believes in a
land-tax; further, it favours land-nationalisation on an
equitable basis. But it doesn’t believe in Henry George
being used as a mere cat’s paw by Calioojimmydom. The
Single-tax, you bet, will never come—on the Georgian
basis of rent-confiscation. If George has abandoned rent-
confiscation why doesn’t he say so ? Read our leader this
week on the subject if you would have our views.
“E.H.”; You want us to do too much
“A. E. Arcom.”: The admitted fact that the Canon stole
something while he was drunk doesn’t necessarily' form
ground for such an impeachment. That a once respected
clergyman of eloquence and learning should have sunk so
low augurs rather his mental alienation..lncidents of
the Flood”; Rather pettifogging “ Peter Block ” : You
hit us in a sore place..“ Bulletin Admirer”: Send to
George Robertson (Melb.) for “The Vagabond Papers.”
2. Withers’s “ History of Ballarat.” 3. He has been 10 or
11 years in Parliament.. “ Rocca” : Not suitable ...
“M. St. J.L.” (Warded): We are agreeable, but can only-
pay for what we accept “S. Cooper” (Bellalie): An
unavoidable delay has occurred in the publication of “A
Golden Shanty,” which, however, is now nearly through
the press.... “C. Perraux ” (Q.): (1) No, N.S.W. has a
weekly Hansard only, which you must subscribe to, and,
we are afraid, must pay postage on. (S) 265. a year
annual subscription. It is, of course, only as reliable as
other party papers. Will answer your other question
next week “Hugh A.”: We’d much like to sec
the orator named visit Australia on a talking-tour.
In your kindly-meant little lecture you are barking up
the wrong tree. We do not quarrel with your religion....
“ J.D.F.”; That kind of thing has been done too often....
“J.W.8.”: Thanks. MSS. returned “ J.D.” (Wood-
end): Prose fair ; verses damnable... “Traveller”: Not
in our vein.. .“Good Night”; The case of the cruel
miller is one for the Animals’ Cruelty Prevention Society.
“Tommy M‘C.” : Your whole story would make a
capital stump-speech for a nigger minstrel.


doctors recommend it.
Medical men in Paris advise “ Warm Alcoholic” drinks as a
precaution against the Influenza epidemic. The celebrated
It Wolfe’s Schnapps” in WARM water has been found a certain
preventive.
Bar-Bound. —A Sketch.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.)
A good many years ago I made use of a vacation
to explore the beauties of one of the largest of the
Northern rivers of N.S. Wales —the Macleay
which I canoed almost to its source. It was a
solitary trip, but a very enjoyable one, and the
time for my return came all too soon.
The steamer for Sydney starts from Kempsey,
the capital of the river. Thirty miles separate
this river city from the sea, and the slow trip
down in a large and comfortable steamer is much
to be appreciated.
It seems strange for a 300-ton steamer to be
cleaving these placid waters and brushing along-
side the many projecting grassy banks that here
and there form such natural wharves that the not
too energetic settler has been content to leave
them unimproved.
The sun was just setting as we reached the last
point of call on the river. On the high bank stood
a buggy and pair. On the rude jetty below—a
man and a woman. . , , ,
As we came alongside there was a hurried hand-
shake between the pair, and then, as if answering
a sudden impulse, the woman lifted her face for a
As she came on board I noticed that she was
young and very pretty. She stood at the steamer’s
side, ""with her eyes fixed on the bank, waving
every now and then a mute farewell. As we turned
the bend the solitary figure of the man was still
visible leaning on his long whip, gazing intently
after the receding boat. In about an hour we
reached the estuary and anchored for the night.
The moon rose high and revealed a scene beautiful
and wild. Outside the broken sea striking the
beach with a continuous roar. Inside the stillest
of still waters, broken every now and then only by
the ripples under the boat.
The weather was very calm, but a long easterly
swell rolling over the Pacific had got up a nasty
sea on the bar, and the pilot prognosticated a
week’s detention at least.
The night sped, one by one the passengers
sought their bunks, till I was left alone—at least
I thought so.
Lighting a cigarette, I strolled round the other
side, where I saw the figure of a woman standing
with both hands on the taffrail, gazing out to sea.
I recognised the last passenger aboard. She was
so absorbed that my approach was unheeded.
Becoming aware of my presence at last she turned,
and as her gaze fell on me I doffed my cap and
went up to her.
“The beauty of the
night has tempted you as
well as me,” I said.
“Yes,” she replied ;
“ sleep at such a time
would be a crime.”
We fell into conversa-
tion and walked the deck
for nearly an hour. I
found her very communi-
cative and became so
myself.
Her name—well, never
mind her name. It was
her husband who had
accompanied her to the
steamer. They had been
living in the most lovely
pot in the Macleay dis-
trict for the previous two
years. It wasn't a farm,
nor a selection. What
their purpose was in liv-
ing there she did not say.
1 could not well ask her,
but I wondered.
“ I suppose that you’re
not sorry to get back to
civilisation ? ” I said.
“Indeed, no,” she an-
swered —“ I have had
two years of perfect
exile.”
She stopped at the door
of the captain’s cabin,
which had been placed at , , , .
her disposal, in consequence of the steamer being
a “full ship.” ,
“I will go in now, Mr. ,” she said /^ood
night.” , , 11.
“ Good night,” I replied, and turned away, but
I had not gone two paces before she called me
back.
“ Do you think we shall be bar-bound long,
Mr. —t” .
“ I am afraid so,” I replied, “ the pilot gives us
a week.”
“ A week ? ” she echoed blankly, “ a week ! Oh
how terrible ! ”
“Is it such an ordeal, then ? I asked laugh-
ingly.
But Mrs. did not laugh. She looked
at me intently for a few minutes. When she
siMikc her voice thrilled me. She seemed to be
under the influence of some very strong emotion.
“ If there were somebody very dear to you,
whom you had not seen for two yea.rs, and whom
you had made up your mind to see in another day
wouldn't every hour's delay madden you .’
“ I understand,” I said apologetically, seeing
that she was in a highly-wrought state of mind ;
“ but” T , Ci 1 *
“ Oh, Mr. ,itis my baby. I left him in
Sydney two years ago ” —and she clasped her
hands and looked into my face with all her soul in
her eyes.
“ However could you leave him so long . i
was astonished into saying.
“I-they—he was not strong enough to be
taken up there,” she said evasively, as if sorry for
saying so much. And she again bade me good-
m\Vhat did it all mean? I thought-a young
mother leaving her baby for two years, and going
off to live with her husband in the wilds, for no
apparent reasonable purpose. Here was food for
speculation, ~ a .
The next day I sought Mrs. at the first op-
portunity, but, although friendly enough, she
avoided all reference to the topics of the night
before.
On the third day she did not appear. She was
indisposed and kept her cabin. On the night of
that day I lingered late on dock in the hope that
she would come out, but when seven bells rang
she had not appeared, and I arose to seek my
berth.
On my way to the companion I had to pass , i!m:
cabin. A light was burning, and, to my surprise,
the door was wide open.
She was sitting on a low stool with her elbow
on the bed, and her hand surt' er “ ea< *|
her back was turned to but as she heard
footsteps she looked around and saw me and i
saw her.
I have had many shocks in my life, rude ones
too, some of them, but I shall never forget the
one I got that night.
Her face was flushed. Her hair was disordered
and from her eyes there leapt the fatal truth —the
girl was hopelessly drunk.
For a moment my heart stood still. How came
this demoniac thirst to one so young and beautiful f
If the bar had been crossable the next day, all
might have been well, but it was not, and another
night, the fourth, closed in on us, and before it
had ended Mrs. had given her shame to the
world. On the plea of illness, she had obtained a
flask of brandy from the steward, and under its
baneful influence had walked into our midst.
The next day the same thing occurred, and the
captain, realising the gravity of the situation, and
seeing no prospect of steaming out for some days,
to come, decided to run back and send word to
her husband—who, fortunately, happened to be
at the next township. At the captain’s request I
waited on him at the hotel. He seemed heart-
broken, and told me his sad story.
Shortly after their marriage his wife showed
traces of dipsomania. After the birth of their
child she became so bad that desperate remedies
had to be resorted to.
The child was left with its grandmother, and
the husband carried his wife away to a very remote
spot in the Macleay district.
His wife in anguish realised her danger, and
readily agreed to two years’ isolation, in the hope
that the fatal craving would be conquered by
compulsory abstinence.
The time expired, and with hopes and fears m
her heart she set out once more for the world and
its temptation.
The hand of fate was against her. It led her to
choose “a full ship” for her journey. Conse-
quently, she was given the captain’s cabin, and
the captain’s brandy-bottle did the rest.
Closely veiled she left the steamer with her
husband. They returned to their isolated home,
there to wait for the lifting of the curse, or that
daybreak when all shadows shall flee away.
We should think that one of the most
amusing books lately written about Australia
A “MOVING SPECTACLE.”
A parent in a way-up-country-district removed his house a quarter of a mile further away
from the school in order to be outside the two miles legal compulsory-attendance-limit. The
schoolmaster, not to be beaten, followed with the school-house. At least that's the sort of yarn a
country correspondent sends to The Bulletin labelled “fact.” P.S.-There is no smoke from the
school-house because there is no fire.
must be one entitled £ ’ Trente Ans a 1 ravers le
Monde,” by the Count de la Chapelle, who really
was in Melbourne for some time. Amongst the
adventures he recounts is a meeting with Morgan,
the bushranger, which throws an altogether new
light on that evidently much maligned man.
(They have evidently just heard of Morgan for
the first time in Yurrup, as he is (under the
name of “ William ” Morgan) the supposed hero
of the latest Family Herald story.) The
c ount had just returned from an adventurous
journey in some unknown wilds (150 miles fiom
Melbourne) where he had met with more wonders
than fall to the lot of most men in this prosaic
age. He encountered Morgan with a band of
some four or five other knights of the road, and
describes him as a man of military appearance,
tall and well-proportioned. He accosted our hero
in familiar terms, by name, assuring him that ms
reputation had preceded him. Then, in choice
French, he informed him that he once occupied
the very highest position in Parisian society,
but in ‘ consequence of being mixed up in
certain first-class scandals was driven to fly
his country. On parting he entrusted to the
Count’s care a medallion, to be confided to a lad]y
of high rank. should think that with La
Chapelle as a novelist and Douglas Sladen as a poet
Australia stands a fair chance of becoming popular.
Mr. Daniel Morgan, by the way, was a coarse-
grained, uneducated, brutal ruffian, who could not
even speak English, to say nothing of brench.
La Chapelle had evidently not met Madame ,
a charming French lady who happened to be stay-
ing at Peeoheba station when the ruffian met his
death. Madame, on one occasion, years ago, graphi-
cally described to the present writer how Morgan,
having stuck up the station, made the ladies play
the piano half the night while he sat back m a
chair with two revolvers on the table before him
and one eye open all the time. His taste in music
inclined to dreamy waltzes. The lady bade him
adieu in the morning, and, through the drawing-
room-window, saw him shot dead by Quinlan (or
Wendlaw) from behind a tree as he walked down
the home paddock with Squatter M'Pherson in
search of a blood-horse.
x'he constable whom Tommy Ryan, the
aboriginal, tried to “pot ” when asked by the
defence if he didn’t think aboriginals fan
replied that he “ didn’t know ; he never shot any.
Impecunious students at Yale are, we
read, selling polished human skulls as paper-
weights. What a fate for the cranium of a press-
man ! Some editor’s skulls, by the way, are
admirably adapted for keeping down any paper.
In the days of good old Doctor Antoine
Mousse’s reign in Ovens District Hospital there
lived a descendant of the Irish kings, y c
Thadeus O’Ryan, bedad, who owned a small hold-
ing on the King River and a team of bullocks.
Unwilling that so famous a name should die out
for want of heirs, he had, with all due formalities,
annexed the daughter of a neighbouring widow and
land-owner, with a brogue, like his own, as broad
and fragrant as the Yarra. Unfortunately tor
Thadeus’ ambitious scheme of founding another
dynasty, soon after his marriage his wife, who
was accustomed to accompany him occasionally m
the trips to the bush for posts and rails, tell oil,
and before his energetic ‘ ‘ whoa ! could pul p
the team they had drawn the dray over his pros-
trate better-half. The unlucky woman was found
to be seriously injured, and was taken to B eoo h*
worth Hospital amid the lamentations ot the
husband and mother. Both legs were hope-
lessly fractured, and the doctor decided
that a double amputation was necessary.
At this, the lamentations of the relatives broke
out afresh, and the doctor, despairing, sent one ot
the nurses to stop the ungodly row. With some
trouble she succeeded with the old woman, but no
persuasion could silence the howling husband.
“Och hone! my poor Biddy!” ‘ did yez
do it at all, at all ?” “ Holy mother, why did 1
marry?” “To be the husband of a woman wid
both legs in the grave.” ‘‘ And the many childher
I was looking for. Och hone !” In vain the nurse
tried to reason with him, saying his dear Biddy
would yet recover and bear him a happy family.
“ Whisht, woman !” he replied. “ How can you
talk so ? How the divil can she have childher wid
no legs, at all, at all?” Pat lived to see the
nurse’s prediction come true. Mrs. O N. recovered
and in the course of time presented her husband
with five strapping sons and daughters.
In the last issue of The Bulletin appeared
a paragraph referring to a statement recently
made by A. W. Howitt in Melbourne, that-over
30 years ago he spliced tail feathers on to some
carrier pigeons at Cooper’s Creek, in the hope that
they would take the news of the discovery of King
to Melbourne. The paragraph terminated with
the query •“ What’s he giving us ? and in reply
thereto Edwin J. Welch, Howitt’s surveyor on the
expedition, now writes us : —“ He is giving you a
plain matter-of-fact statement of an incident
which provoked much amusing comment in the
camp and a keen interest in the results. The four
carrier pigeons—all, as well as I reinember birds
of pedigree and repute, were carried in a large
wicker cage constructed for the purpose of riding
on a camel-pack. They took kindly enough to
exploring work, but were sorry-looking objects
long before Cooper’s Creek was reached. The
constant knocking about in the cage wore their
tail feathers down to mere stumps. Immediately
after the discovery of King and the burial of
Burke and Wills, the birds were turned out into
a small tent, the opening of which was protected
by a piece of nigger’s fishing-net. But as it was
evidently absurd to expect them to find their way
back to Melbourne without steering-gear, a consul-
tation was held and a decision arrived at to fit them
with artificial tails and leave the rest to Provi-
dence. Some crested pigeons, which were only a
trifle smaller and very numerous on the creek,
were shot; their tail-feathers extracted and care-
fully spliced on with a fish-joint and waxed silk to
the astonished carriers. A day’s spell was given
them in which to get accustomed to the novel
appendage, and each bird was entrusted with a
copy of the same message. The following extract
is from my old expedition diary ‘Friday, 20th
September, 1801. At 6 a.m. flew the carrier
pigeons. They rose fairly well after some moments,
but separated widely before crossing the creek and
headed due south. Hawks were very numerous,
and two of the carriers were found during the day
on the opposite side of the creek. One was dead,
the other uninjured.’ The latter remained about
the camp, and was left perched in a gum-tree
when we left, five days later. The fourth bird
was never heard of. r lhe cage in which they had
travelled was utilised by Howitt as_a receptacle in
which to pack a fine collection of bird and reptile-
skins, pickled scorpions of abnormal dimensions,
centipedes, ‘ triantelopes,’and the many coloured
bugs of which he was an enthusiastic collector. A
few days after leaving the creek, a comical little
dingo pup was captured in a log, and, of course, he
was promptly entered on the expedition-books,
also for Melbourne. A part of the pigeon-cage
was partitioned off for his use, and for two days
he filled the wilderness with unavailing howls of
regret about his captivity. Then he gnawed his
way out, and started to scratch a hole near the
stern-post of the camel which carried him. It
took some hours to collect the scattered debris of
the wreck can >ed by six camels breaking their
nose-strings un . muting earth and sky in a series
of convulsive bucks, but one degree removed from
a New Zealand earthquake. The pup had disap-
peared, and the procession filed sadly onwards - in
search of water. Carrier-pigeons for exploration
purposes are a delusion, and the whole dingo race
is an abomination and an incentive to evil.”
One of the great Victorian causes celebres
was the Burnt Creek murder case, in which
some years ago a woman and her Chinese
paramours, Ah Kat and Jim Pong, were tried
for the murder of her husband, a German
named Renzelman. The trial took place at the
Maryborough Assizes before Judge Barry, and
was remarkable for the difficulty the jury had
in agreeing and the public dissent from their
verdict. The evidence was chiefly circum.
stantial, and, after being locked up a con-
siderable time, the jury brought in a ver-
dict absolving the woman and Jim Pong,
but convicting Ah Kat. The general public
opinion was, however, that the woman was very
lucky. Those who witnessed the trial will never
forget the pallid look of fear which overspread Ah
Kat’s face when, after the verdict, he was about
to follow his companions out of the dock, but was
waved back by the stern arm of the law. Jim
Pong, on whom the solemnity of the trial had
made a strong impression (the greater, perhaps,
from his inability to comprehend it), on being
made to understand the probable result of Ah
Kat’s detention, made tracks for home with the
speed of terror. A European, ignorant of his
personality, met him and enquired the reason of
his haste. Tearfully shaking his head the terrified
Celestial replied, “No more Ah Kat—welly near
no more Jim Pong.”
In Boots.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
Yes, let me like a soldier fall
Upon some open plain,
I want no martial cloak at all,
Nor yet a bullet’s pain ;
I have no wish to face the foe,
And wait until he shoots —
But when it is my turn to go,
I’d like to go in boots.
Let others lie the sheets between
To draw their final breath ;
Methinks there’s something almost mean
In such a humdrum death :
I’d rather meet my fate in one
Of my least ancient “ soots,”
And, feeling that toy work was done,
Pali fast asleep in boots.
I’ve seen, in print, how Wesley died :
Such ends suoh people love—
A pious mob of mourners near
To watch him soar Above;
But I might have to fly Below
With other lost galoots :
The ground is warmish there, and so
I’d like to go in boots.
Perchance I shock the merchant-prince,
The clerk in bank, or shop—
But bards have been eccentric since
Eve made the Apple drop.
(If she from that accursed tree
Had never “ shook ” the froots,
No man would have to die, you see,
In bed, or in his boots.)
“No matter, though, the time will come,”
Stage villains oft repeat.
What’s that ? A hallelujah drum
A-beating down the street!
Now, who can blame me when I «ry,
Each time the capting toots _
His cornet sad —“ I want to die
This moment, in my boots !’ ?
When (Cowper’s) Kempenfeldt went down
“ His fingers held the pen ” —•
My pen might bring me some renown
If I did ditto, then.
This thought will not provoke, I trust,
Your hisses, groans, or boots—
To die as we have lived we must
Depart from earth in boots.
Evidence.
Ask any successful lawyer to what he ascribes
his success, and he will tell you that ho has taken
care to have had “ evidence ” to support the cases
he has undertaken. What sends the murderer to
the gallows ? Evidence. What sends the thief
to gaol ? Evidence. Facts can only be proved
by evidence, and that is how the superiority or
Clements Tonic is proved by the pure and
positive evidence of its various patrons over all its
imitators, for Clements Tonic has no compeers
or competitors. It is now quite unnecessary foi
the manufacturers of Clements Tonic to say a
word in its favor ; its reliability, virtues, merits,
and therapeutical efficacy are proved beyond all
doubt by the unanimous verdict, the irrefutable,
incontrovertible, and indisputable evidence of its
influential patrons. _ .
T. B. Bryce, Esq., J.P., writing in the Manning
River Times, says, “We personally know some
of the sufferers who have taken Clements lonic
and derived wonderful relief from it.”
W. C. M'Dougall, Esq., writing mthe Balmain
Observer says, “The good effects of Clements
Tonic have come under our notice both by personal
experience and by that of two residents of Bal-
main.” . ...mm
Spencer Groves, Esq., writing in the iDMUT
and Adelong Times, says, “ We have had proof
positive here, in this neighborhood, of the wonder-
ful properties of Clements Tonic.
W B. Howarth, Esq., writing in the Grenfell
Record, says, “We have found it of great value
for the hot weather, and have had personal
experience, so has a friend of ours in the civil
service, who was so sick that he threw up every-
thing but his appointment, but Clement’s Tonic
cured him.” . _. , Tr ,
S. Beach, Esq., Marnckville (N.S.W.), says,
“That Clements Tonic did wonders for Miss
Beach, that 4 doses only cured both toothache and
earache. Esq., Ravenhurst, Marriokville,
says “Mrs. Bagnall took Clements Tonic with
the most gratifying result, and that its use resulted
in a restoration of perfect health after two years
of extreme debility.”
John Plummer, Esq., North Willoughby, says,
“ Clements Tonic did Mrs. Plummer a great deal
of good, and it is a very good remedy.”
J. W. L. Kyle, Esq., postmaster, Manilla, says,
“ Before I had used one bottle of Clements Tonic
I was quite cured. ”
Captain Dibden, Balmain, says, That tour
bottles completely cured him of debility and
nervousness, and he is glad to bear witness to the
value of such a wonderful remedy.”
Full particulars and endorsements on appli-
cation to F. M. Clements, Newtown, N S.W. j or
at Melbourne, George and George; at Adelaide,
F. 11. Faulding and Co,; at Wellington (JN.Ak
Kempthorne, Prosser and Co.; at Hobart and
Launceston, L. Fairthorno and Sons, and an
dealers everywhere.


) , $
ft
JNogo
CtLESRITiD
m
in?
d
l-C/wt-i.F.
SHEWED
PORTS
r°,
IND.JS
nit. l
EELER&
Use Batho's Baking Powder.
BUGGIES, BUCKBOARDS,
AMI
VICTORIAS,'
At MAN II FACT IT HE RS’ PUICES.
Send for Catalogues and Prices to
THE F. B. ’WHEELER CO.,
265 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
Personal Items.
One of the Rothschilds has a herd of thirty
British-born kangaroos.
The talented Henry Lawson has left Syd-
ney for Western Australia.
Minnie Palmer is the daughter of a doctor
of medicine at Walsall, England.
William Forster and Michael Fitzpatrick
died in similar fashion to David Buchanan.
The Manchester Guardian states that
John Henniker-Heaton will be the first Australian
peer!
The Tichborne claimant now keeps a public-
house in the neighbourhood of Stoke-upon-Trent
(Eng.).
It is said that Mr. Pilcher, Q.C., of
N.S.W', now in England, will seek a seat in the
Commons.
According to Edmund Yates, Henniker
Heaton is descended from a Lancashire baronet of
the 13th century.
Tom Nast, the great American caricaturist,
would never caricature General Grant, “ because
he saved his country.”
Balfour made an unhappy slip in the
Commons recently; he called Salisbury “Lord
Piggot.” The house roared.
Every communication written by Glad-
stone, if it be only a post-card to a school-miss, is
copied by his private secretaries.
A Miss Florence Carington has, we see,
just become Mrs. Smith. Governor Carington
will be appalled by this retrogession.
Douglas Jerrold’s “itinerant” brother has
been known to compose a leader in the “stick”
without the use of pen, ink or paper.
Professor Sutherland, of Victoria, says
that the human conscience is situated in the
human belly. No belly, no conscience ?
Since his arrival in Melbourne, Johnnie
Toole has never imbibed anything stronger than
lemonade, and has never missed the last tram.
The Princess of Wales has “shut down”
on actors and actresses, and the Prince o' Wales
has turned his back on the children of his Hebrew
friends.
Moberly Bell, the new manager of the
Times, was formerly Times correspondent in
Alexandria; prior to that “he was best known m
the commercial circles of Cairo.
Sir John Fowler, in his capacity as con-
sulting engineer to the N.S.W. Government, is
alleged to have netted in commissions from that
Government during the last 30 years £210,000.
According to letters posted en route, Hon.
Frawncis Abigail had a bad spell during the
earlier part of his voyage “ home ’-wards. But,
then, Frawncis was always addicted to bad spells!
Britic Fund vail records that Browning
said once that his style suggested “broiled bones
and brandy,” and Tennyson’s “ perfect love.”
Nobody who is not drunk should attempt to think
over this.
Yet another one. John Cameron, “a«-ed
07,” found dead in his bed in Campbell-street,
.Sydney, had a Waterloo medal in his possession.
But then we also have a Waterloo medal in our
possession.
Alfred Plumpton, conductor at Melbourne
Opera House, has written a song called “Love's
Young Dream,” or something equally giddy, and
dedicated it to Madame - Nellie Stewart. With
his experience, too !
David Buchanan first met his friend
Thomas Carlyle when he went to England to study
for the Bar. He was then the bearer of a present
—an opossum rug—sent by Sir Henry Parkes to
the old man at Chelsea.
Inspector Taylor, a Victorian official
examiner of adulterations, was told off the other
day to test some “ suspected ” brawn. He did so
thoroughly. He sent half to the Government
analyst and lie ate the other half.
( The editor of the Mount Morgan
Chronicle (Q.), in a leading article, advocates
“moderation” in preference to total abstinence.
“Two glasses of beer a day and three whiskies in
the evening is about a fair thing.”
In Parkes’ forthcoming autobiography,
Wentworth, it is understood, will be let down
kerflop. Parkes doesn’t think much of Went-
worth, for reasons which all who know the present
N.S.W, Premier will readily understand.
Scandal gathers round the grave of General
Radetzky, of the Shipka Pass, one of Russia's
greatest soldiers. Two widows and two families,
each till now ignorant of the other’s existence,’
have come forward to claim his pension.
Professor Tyndall is growing very cantan-
kerous. At his’ house down in Surrey lie has
erected several large scaffolds covered with wattles
and dead heath, because some new residences had
been erected within field-glass view of his own.
Dr. Donovan, the N.S.W. Equity barrister,
has returned to Sydney from Europe. " The doctor
is one of the very few attorneys who abandoned
the lower branch of the profession for the higher.
Sir James Martin was the first to lead the way.
A party by the name of Thompson, who
appears to be manager of Melbourne Evenino
Standard, proudly claims the “credit ” of having
suggested to Minister Davies that the new bridge 1
over the Yarra should be called “ The Queen’s ”
Bridge.
John Jacob Aster, landowner, 00 or 80
times a millionaire in English money, looked down
upon the Vanderbilt and Jay Gould faction as
people who have made their money in vulgar
speculations. There’s a text for Henry George to
preach upon.
Cricketer Bonnor, old John Ruskin’s
/Tvrcl^wr^ 0611 *' g* ail V’has settled down in Bathurst
(JN.S. W.), and gone into the cheese, oats, potato
and bacon business. The Bulletin had antici-
pated a less useful but more poetic destiny for this
beautiful young man.
Stanley’s opinion of Emin Pasha is that
, I s irresolute and infirm of purpose,” and that
if he is appointed to any responsible post in East
Atnca, somebody with a determined character
i iavt : sent to look after him. And what
does Emm say of Stanley ?
Bismarck was Chancellor of the German
Empire 19 years, and of the Prussian Monarchy
■“Vp years, or since ,Sept., 1862. That was the time
when he and old King William conspired to destroy
Parliamentary Government, and sanguinary
Germania started on its career of blood.
Sam. Lord, the best known Yankee resi-
dent of Melbourne, has gone where all good
A “‘'| cails go when they die. He was 36 years
a Melbourne resident, but never would abandon
the citizenship of the Republic. “ Make Austia-
ha a Republic,” said Uncle Sam, “ and I’m in it.’
Ex-Minister Fletcher, of N.S.W., lately
had a bad attack of determination of blood
* j .? ose ,’ anc * alx >ut hlty papers have already
stated that he lost “ about four quarts of blood ”
straight off. Rather tall this, considering that
tiom eight to ten quarts is a fair allowance for the
average man.
Mr. Henry E. Abbey, says the Pall Mall
Gazette, recently remarked.:— 1 ?! shall be glad
to see Mary Anderson married. After a year of
wedded life she will be a greater actress than
ever, and will play with intense feeling parts
which she at times has been condemned as pour-
traying with icy coldness.”
I roc tor left a valuable book on the
Southern Heavens, just published. It is the most
interesting-cf all his works, to an Australian. Eo
example, he shows how that great star Canopus
is eight times the distance of Sirius, and that if
t;e two were at the same distance from the earth,
THE LATEST.
“Two boys drove a long nail into a dog and then tied it on the railway, the engine cutting it
in half. ” —Daily Paper.
SMITH’S BOY: “I WANT A NAIL, DAD—THERE’S A DOG IN OUR YARD.”
Canopus would appear forty times the size of
Sirius.
It is freely stated that within the last few
months, sundry apparently isolated facts have
come to light which point to a terrible conspiracy
against Dilke, hatched by a group of women who
personally hated him, and paid for by an enor-
mously wealthy woman of title who had politico-
personal reasons for desiring his downfall.
Fitzgibbon denies that he thinks of retir-
ing from the Melbourne Town Clerkship. He has
done at least one noble work : step by step he has
fought against every encroachment on the public
parks and gardens, but the forces of corruption
have been too strong, and chunk after chunk has
been alienated from first One and then another.
There has been a beautiful row in an
Auckland tabernacle between Yarley and Pastor
Birch. First Birch arose and castigated Yarley,
in his absence, for saying that no man could live
sinlessly ; then Yarley got in by a side door and
went for Birch, and there was such a row among
the 1000 holy ones assembled that the meeting was
adjourned.
( A Melbourne inkslinger, when doing the
Cyelorama recently, was introduced to old Jerry
Brown, the stone-deaf nonagenarian survivor of
Waterloo. Said the reporter to him, in a tone
that attracted the general attention of the
audience : —“ Is it true, Mr. Brown, on your
honour as a soldier, that the Duke of Wellington
addressed the Guards at Waterloo in the memor-
able phrase: ‘Up Guards and at them?’” To
which remark Jerry made reply : “ Don mine if I
do ; mine’s rum.” ,
Montagu Williams, the barrister, in his
new autobiography, mentions that, in the Old
Bailey, he defended a prisoner, with a Hebrew
attorney, call him Mr. Kosher. This gentleman
whispered when an important witness for the
prosecution entered the box, “ Ask him if he
isn’t a Jew ? ” “ Why,” said Williams in surprise,
' Aren’t you one yourself ? ” “ Never mind that,”
replied Mr. Kosher, “ when he says he’s a Jew it
will prejudice the jury.” Nothing like fidelity to
your client.
POLITICAL
POINTS
Rough on Rats—General Elections.
Henry George will not visit New Zealand.
He is by no means pleased with the results of his
Australian tour up to date.
The merry month of May seems to be
getting wise as well. It is about to bristle with
labour demonstrations, in England and Europe.
A licensed retail liquor-seller cannot be a
magistrate of N.S. Wales or an officer of the
Volunteer force, yet he can be a nominee member
of the Legislative Council.
The Brazilian Republican Government
have ordered the adoption of the Comtist Calendar,
in which the-months are named after great men,
and the days after human relationships.
Two seats for Yorke’s Peninsula, at the
late S.A. elections, brought out a regular Mel-
bourne Cup field of twenty competitors. Two of
this tag-rag crowd were beaten, off with 5 and 3
votes respectively.
Speaking at Broken hill’ Frank Chappie
said that the day was not far distant when the
working-man would “rule the universe. ’ The
working-man will never rule the “ universe.” lie
will do very well when he rules the world.
London Daily Telegraph is under the
impression that there is no communication save
by sea between South Australia and the Eastern
Australias. And yet we are eternally hearing by
cable what the Daily Telegraph thinks about
Australian questions.
A lot has been heard by cable lately about
the “proposed neutralisation of Alsace and Lor-
rameA The rumour, it will be found, is utterly
destitute of serious foundation. The Germans
will make no compromise whatsoever with France,
and will, at least while the Hohenzbllern dynasty
lasts, fight for Alsace and Lorraine till the last
gasp.
Sir Thomas Esmonde has just stated in
the'Commons that Queensland is governed far
better than England. Which statement, it may
be remarked, applies to Australia generally. The
only thing necessary to make Australians lose
their absurd reverence for England and its mag-
nates is to live (and work) in the place fora couple
of years.
The .'V. authorities’ method of subsi-
'hsing cl ties by sums equal to the amounts
publicly subscribed, is much abused, in spite of
the existence of an Inspector of Public Charities
at a high salary and £2 per day for travelling ex-
penses. As a matter of fact, the balance-sheets
of most N.S.W. public institutions if compand
with their lists of “subscriptions, donations
legacies, and bequests, ' would not bear inspection!
Passing the Guards’ monument in Water-
loo place, Mine. Novikoff said to an English
friend •
Behold in that bronze lady with the corkscrew curls the
sole trophy of your Russian war ! You spent 100,000
lives and £J 00,000,000, and that is all'you have to show
for it! I hope you are content. You took away Bess-
arabia ; it has come back. Yon shut our ships out of the
Black Sea; we have opened its waters to our fleet. You
destroyed Sebastopol; it is stronger than ever. You
established the independence and integrity of the Otto
man Empire, which we compelled you to assist in demolish-
ing at Berlin in 1878.
A U.S. senator has moved to prevent the
export of spirits to Africa. If the motion is
defeated, as it is pretty certain to be in a House
which is largely composed of professing and
whisky-drinking Christians, The Bulletin hopes
that the senator will next move to prevent the
export of missionaries. The House having voted
for rum and -hell, would be only-consistent with
itself -in precluding the alleged emissaries of
heaven from preaching to the pore heathen.
There’s nothing like going the whole hog in
spiritual matters,
‘‘ Thanksgiving Day,” one of the great
national American holidays, was instituted as a
religious and festal celebration by the early settlers
of the New Zealand States to commemorate an
unusually bountiful harvest which had followed
upon a period of drought and famine. For several
generations after its institution it was-the custom
for all of .the members of each family to attend
church, with the exception of one, who would
stay at home and cook the dinner—generally a
turkey. In the present generation, it is the one
who goes to church. The rest stop behind and
supervise the turkey.
It is not inopportune to point out that the
original Pigott charge, even if true, was not such
serious affair after all. England’s horror at the
Phoenix Park murders is characteristic. Where
was her consternation when the late Czar was
killed? Forster, on insinuating Parnell’s com-
plieity, was bailed up by; Justin McCarthy’s
reminder how he himself received Mazzini. It is
a notorious fact that when Abraham Lincoln, a
great and good man, to whom Burke and Caven
dish were but pigmies, was foully murdered, the
commercial magnates of Liverpool Stock Ex-
change cheered. They had previously fitted out
the Alabama.
Bradlaugh s Oaths Bill does not seemed to
have altogether relieved those persons who prefer
t° affirm, or refuse to be sworn, of their dis-
abilities. At Newcastle Assizes (Eng.) a juror
named Saddler “being of no religious belief”
wished to affirm ; thereupon Justice Day ordered
him to leave the box, but the juror suggested that
the difficulty might be met by the leaving out of
certain words. “ I prefer to leave you out,” said
Day. “ You are depriving me of my qualifications
as a citizen, ’ complained Saddler. “I care nothing
for your qualifications as a citizen,” retorted the
benighted Day. Day (one of the members of the
Parnell Commission,. by the way) was in 1861
offered the Chief Justiceship of Queensland, where
he has a brother.
Henniker Heaton (who had probably been
entertaining a fpw,members at dinner just before)
was accorded a mild “demonstration” after
Coschen announced the Government’s intention to
propose a reduction in the postal rate between
Hingland and her beastly kawlinies. And now,
Kaikes, the British P.M.G., intimates that he de-
served the demonstration, and that Henniker has
played the pait of “a fly on the wheel” of State.
Whatever part H.ll. may have taken heretofore,
it is tolerably evident that Bailees is making a fool
of himself now—
That Henniker Heaton was tricky and “fly,”
A party as artful and smart as he’s high
(What the Major in “Dombey ” called “ devilish
sly ”),
Was a fact which we knew very weel
(As they say in the Land o’ the’Leal),
But Kaikes, P.M.G., passes Henniker by
With scorn on his lip arid a flash in his eye,
And harshly describes him, we cannot tell why,
As merely “ a fly on.the wheel.”
Dear Bulletin, —You have no call to paint
the Victorian lily. In a par. last week you, with-
out comment, gave statistics about the national
debt per head of each Australian colony, from
Queensland, with her £63 Us. Id. per head, to
Victoria, with her £3l Ws. sd. ; and you
compared them as if they were all of
tlie same equivalence. Not so. Queensland's
published “public” indebtedness, for in-
stance, includes, municipal loans, which, in
that colony, must be obtained from the Govern-
ment ; but Victoria’s publish)d “public” debt
does not include those loans which its municipali-
ties, harbour trusts, &c.. have themselves been
permitted to float on the London market. Please
put the colonies all on the same bottom by in-
cluding all public loans, or by excluding in every
instance all loans not purely Governmental, and
tell ns how the proportion stands. —H. O.
“A military commission appointed by the
Servian Government has gone to St. Petersburg
to receive from the Czar a present of 100,000
Berdan rifles. ”
Lord Randolph Churchhill is in such bad
odour oil the British,Government benches that he
could with difficulty get a* glass of water when
attacking their Irish policy, and the reluctance to
extend to him the small courtesy in question was
so evident that, in thanking the member who
brought the water, he added, “ I hope I don’t com-
promise you. ” » '
God bless the Czar ! whose lavish gift
Denotes a noble disposition:
No petty thoughts of petty thrift
Can lurk within his composition.
All niggard notions near his mind
His better nature promptly stifles,
And to his neighbour, poor and blind,
He throws a hundred thousand rifles.
What god-like charity is this,
From one good Christian to another !
How sweet the fond, fraternal kiss
That’s interchanged by man and brother
When, in the stead of diamond stars,
Or rings, or other gew-gaw trifles,
He gives his friend - this best of Czars !
A hundred-thousand Berdan rifles.
Take wings and fly away, O ! Peace,
Nay, hover not around the cities—
That arts and industries increase
Is quite a hundred thousand pities.
Let weak, unwarlike Brown and Smith
Extol their Ed.isons and Eiffels -
The Czar assists his vassals with
A hundred thousand Berdan rifles.


'“y^jjj)^rr\FFcX^^^ e jn> * rr n\jy^i
London, Tuesday.—The reported dhatbof
John L. Sullivan, the American pugilist, is
without foundation.
d
r
'fcfco
The shipment of Australia® a PP l<k * in
London ex the steamer Ooeaca realised goo a
prices.
at/cL(/mtu/tous
rvtpcterecf bj/ Tfie
/fats u/jik ay /jt? Jbjii/Mjty/ eiJL
Coijy/wpp, fa/u/’firfje /s
- /p
%
Loklion, April 22.—Signor Succi, tho
Italian faster, who is now attemping a
fast of forty days, taking nothing but
•• painkiller ” and water, is confident that
he will accomplish the task he has set
hiiheelf. The period of forty days will
expire on Saturday.
/> *1?
r-vtya/ff
BpFTtIS £3 will be friven to anyone who shall pro,
ouw advertiser Government Billet. J. G., Herald.
BOMBARDING A BOBBY.
Besiegers and Besieged.
B ire : livehi youths named Thomas Kelly,
Mich: 11 Kely, and John Maloney were
Tarsia at Ihe Water Police Court this
Aprnilg witmwantonly throwing stones in
Haddington alulic house of Constable Costi
I It apneaVed that the genial guardian
of the pctTEeretired to rest after us arduous
W when he was awakened from lusdreamof
b*ing & full-blown bonifece by a ' alley of
rwhite metal, which came crashing in thiough
F his front windows. He at once arose ami
gave chase, but his assailants vteie
nimble, and escaped. However, subsequent
inquiries revealed the atonct irower-
identity, and they were each bned L- and
2a. 6d. costs.
. OV*
£v
f
aga
E^
alian star,
iGGA WAGGA
UEDER.
'f the Prisoner.
jses tiu Crime.
% Waona, Tuesday.
Sclunidt had his
utly uneasy iii hi*
tlie
JOSE?
Ihe Ba
“Honour ”
Higher
IliKJi was
ngers-on a*
I'nin"—w 1
The Head op the Victim.
of'Taylor,
1 a
\y
of again a.tW
move
,0
A- £
& A
M
<%&
o<-&-
V
//?
IVM \V
jfyb '
tA
Til*)**# BSs*
5if e ,
,)i i/u.5 pil iP '..Mr l ilA
I' SW °]\
Jffnq. foatj
/aurtls 7
AFFAIRS OF THE WEEK.


H* s Mo«/C <S ro y/A.r i/rvr«i_ Two CoMf \
C\-T Th £ same TiMiE, So AJ T# Com r»£-r, fiorv, V
15
AT Orj^o
To Buy Some Ci/ltiOS
ftvr UL 5 rfoT th£ s°* r
OF MA iv To 6£ »AA"
o*l OtAR,K°
W/K W\A
( Wr~J!
Awo T h fK y Jl/0< c lOut,£?
P » r? J r oKE _ r
F.N'AI.L/ a p-'SRCAjrv'.
A we TJ, £/v O • h£l?
AKj) IS PcrF£cTu? SAITSF/£o.
d
TRAFFICKING ON THE SUEZ ROUTE.


The
Marvellous
18s. 6d.
OPTIMUS
WATCHES
The Best, Cheapest and Most Accurate Timekeepers
ever produced.
Made especially to our order by one of the leading and
most celebrated manufacturers of Watches in Switzerland,
and experience has shown that no watch is better than a
well-made Swiss one.
Gilt movements, jewelled in six holes, keyless (10 turns
to wind), enamel dials, crystal faces, well made, splendidly
finished, nickel cases that will wear excellently; in fact,
real good-looking, handsome little watches, and magnifi-
cent timekeepers.
Twelve months’ guarantee forwarded with every ode.
Send P. 0.0. for 19s. 6d. (Is. postage), and have one
forwarded by post. If not in every way satisfactory after
a week money willingly refunded.
Only to be obtained from
FROST <Sc SHIPHAM,
Spectacle Makers, Opticians & Electricians,
474 & 587 George Street. Sydney.
IOREIGN & COLONIAL EXCHANGE BANK
OF AUSTRALASIA, Limited.
Sydney—SO King Street.
Melbourne —3G9 Collins Street.
London Bankers —Australian Joint Stock Bank,
No. 2 King William Street, London, E.O.
This Bank undertakes the Exchange of Money,
both International and Intercolonial, includ-
ing the Coinage of all Foreign Nations, in
addition to all usual and customary banking busi-
ness.
Deposits Received.
3 years
12 months ...
G months
3 months .
Communications to
Managing Director.”
... ... per cent.
8 per cent,
7 per cent.
... G percent,
be addressed to “The
D J WILSON,
- Secretary.
W. H. PALING & COMPANY, LIMITED,
356 George Street, SYDNEY,
HAVE Just Opened a Magnificent Lot of USTe-w Pianos from the celebrated Makers, Steinway, Erard, Uebel, Fenrich, Lipp’ Eonisch, Bluthner, Collard,aml othci’s
Also of the wonderful Victor Pianos at £45 and Eatey Organs. No such Variety or Value elsewhere for Cash or Tehms.
Society
The following pompous announcement
appears in the Sydney daily press
Mr. Julian Ashton has been commissioned by Lord
Carinarton to paint for him a portrait of Sir Henry Parkes.
His Excellency wishes the painting to be a pendant to his
picture of Charles James Fox.
This reminds us that The Bulletin has commis-
sioned Mr. Foozleberg to paint a picture of Sir
Henry Parkes —as a pendant to the portraits of
Brigham Young and the Artful Dodger now hang-
ing in its ancestral halls.
# * *
Alfred Bennett, Esq. permits one of his
accomplished staff to remark that a certain alleged
bigamist, now before the preliminary court, is “of
sleek and cunning appearance,” and that he ap-
peared in the dock dressed “ in a shabby-genteel
manner.” Great indeed must be the changes in
the Event vo News office when a sub-editor, or even
a police-court reporter, can thus patronisingly
scan other people’s clothing. .When we reported
for that classic sheet we may have been cunning
enough, but as we remember ourselves, alas, we
were not sleek —
We were not sleek, we were not sleek,
Our screw was then two pounds a week.
* * #
It is the fashion of the Sydney papers
always to give the names of members of its own
proprietary and staff special prominence in the 1
lists of invitations published in their own columns.
For instance, in pursuance of this modest custom
we see it announced in a recent S.M. Herald
that “ amongst the distingirshed company, in
addition to those already named, were . . .
Messrs. G. F. and J. O. Fairfax.” Now, will
somebody tell ns what these pleasant young
gentlemen are “distinguished” for? One of
them imports game-cocks and the other fellow
signs cheques. So far, that’s all the world knows
about them, except that they are members of the
Union Club, doncherkiiow, and that they are
lucky enough to have had old John Fairfax for a
grandfather.
# # #
On Tuesday of last week, Governor Hope-
toun, who not so long ago playfully danced a
breakdown in ballet-girl skirts upon a supper-
table, laid the foundation-stone of Melbourne
Young Men's Christian Association’s new head-
quarters and talked sanctimonious-like to the
assembled youths. By the way, it is to be hoped
that when the Association has gone into larger
diggings there will be no necessity for making
night hideous by holding overflow hymn-parties
round an asthmatic harmonium on the kerb.
* # - *
Which reminds ns that Governor Caring-
ton, pal of the Prince of Wales and other
Alhambra patrons, solemnly presided last week at
the annual meeting of the N.S.W. Young
Women’s Christian Association. How he
managed to keep his face is a dark and fearsome
mystery. And what humourists the clergy are !
They would in vite*the Devil himself to patronise
them if he wore patent-leathers on his split feet,
had a handle to his name and lived at a “good
address. ”
* » #
The burning question of the day in N.S. W.
is—did the Reverend Dean Mahony hug the late
Mrs. Brown or did lie not? One or two people
swear they saw him doing it; others swear that as
M rs. Brown never went to his house alone he
could hardly have put his arm round her waist
under the circumstances alleged by the other side.
Cardinal Moran, who has never in all his life
hugged anything but a superstition, lias cabled for
the Dean, now understood to be at Salt Lake, on
his way through America, ordering him to return
in order that he may deny or explain the ungodly
acts attributed to him.
# * *
A Sydney swell, who speaks Italian indif-
ferently, recently purchased a gondola in Venice.
No, we aren’t going to tell you the old municipal
chestnut about buying a male and a fayinale gon-
dola and letting nature take its coorse. The great
man simply bought a gondola and asked the seller,
who could speak no English, to pack it in sections
for easy transmission. He did, and that gondola
arrived in Sydney sawn squarely off in four pieces.
The boat-builders could do nothing with it, except
to build a cedar skin outside, which will make it too
clumsy for anything. So the process of paralysing
the shore-side habitues of the Beautiful Harbour
is delayed sine die.
* # #
A male correspondent writes saying that
he has somewhat changed his views regarding the
relation of the sexes since visiting the vicinity of
N.S.W. National Park, where he saw a stout
lady attired in her husband’s trousers. The un-
suitability of her outline for such wear was
apparently recognised not only by our correspon-
dent, but also by the lady, for on his approach she
in great haste discreetly veiled the lower part of
her frame in a tablecloth. From this we draw the
moral that the pioneer in any great reform, now
as ever, is exposed to ridicule and abuse, and that
our masculine ideas of the beautiful will require
considerable modification ere all women can
appear to advantage in trousers.
# # *
A. W. Robertson, of Melbourne, has hired
a mansion in Grosvenor Square for the coming
London season, and will share “Australian in-
terest ” with Salmon Wilson, who has been squat-
ting in that toney region for some time past. Mr.
Robertson will find himself encompassed round
about by such renowned creatures as the Duke of
Westminster, the belted Earls Fitzwilliam, Aber-
deen, Percy, Londesborough, and the Marquis of
Lothian—perhaps the next Governor of N.S.
Wales. Bishops, too, are apt to come and lodge
in the tenements of Grosvenor Square, when they
can snatch a few weeks’rest from their heavenly
labours. All of which reminds us that Steele, the
“leviathan” English bookmaker, once took it
into his large, fat head to rent a house in a
fashionable square where the Bishop of London
chanced to be his next-door neighbour. On
cairn summer a ternoons Steele held book-
maker receptions on the balcony of his man-
sion, which caused the brandy-and-water-per-
furned air to become dense with strange oaths.
It was after a great professional conference of this
description that the Leviathan’s boss footman
brought him a missive upon a silver salver :-r
“ The Bishop of London presents his compliments
to Mr. Steele, and trusts that the next time he
entertains friends he will keep them inside the
house and ckue all the windows.” Steele took the
hint, and retired from the chosen haunts of the
good and great. The patter of the bloomin’ turf,
he knew, was different to the patter of the blessed
Church. He didn’t wish to reform the Bishop,
and the Bishop showed no desire to reform him.
“ He won’t bet and he won’t save my soul,” said
Steele, so, with his faith in the religion of lawn
sleeves more weak than ever, the shrewd specu-
A SKETCH IN DROUGHT-TIME.
TRAVELLER: “GOT ANY WASHING-GEAR HERE FOR SALE?”
STOREKEEPER: “YES, SIR, WE HAVE EVERY TOILET REQUISITE.”
TRAVELLER: “THEN GIVE US A BAR OF SOAP AND A HORSE-RASP,
AND I’LL GO DOWN TO THE GUV’MENT DAM.”
later stuck up —“ This desirable family residence
to let. ” The story is as trusty as Steele.
A big will-case is due for resurrection in a
few days. And apropos of the former trial, it will
be desirable that the counsel for the plaintiff do
not lunch every day with members of the jury
while the evidence is being reconsidered. It was
too funny to hear the judge (when the court rose
after his summing up) appealing to the honour of
the jury not to hold communication with the out-
side world respecting the will. And most, if not
all, of them had been eating, drinking, and so on
with the victorious counsel right along. The
leading counsel for the defence expressed his dis-
gust privately, but was too loyal to his protected
profession to do his full duty to his client by
standing up in court and stating that the ease had
been tried over bottles of champagne. So there,
now!
* * *
It was a well-known Anglo-Australian who
had the misfortune to be left a grass widower
some years ago, owing to the mother of his chil-
dren bolting away suddenly with the other fellow.
The Melbourne parents of the fair absconder were
thoroughly disgusted with her. She had deceived
them when she eloped with her “ husband ” years
before, and now she had deceived him by eloping
with somebody else. So they called upon the
bereaved party to express their warm sympathy,
together with the earnest hope that he would get
a divorce. “No occasion,” answered the creature
they had been loving as a son-in-law, “we were
not married, as it luckily happens.”
# # #
A while back The Bulletin received a
circular from Mr. Bhanurangsi, Minister of Posts
and Telegraphs to the King of Siam, informing us
that the existing tariff of telegraph-charges be-
tween Sydney and Siam had been raised to one
att in every 25 atts, to make up for a depreciation
in the silver currency of that heathen region. If
any of our readers wish to wire birthday greet-
ings to their girls in Siam they will have to plank
down another att or two over and above what
they paid last time. We thought we would men-
tion this in case it makes much difference.
# # *
Small things shape our destinies ! A cer-
tain well-known Melbourne man not long ago
kept a little bar-room with a sanded floor, and
therein did an enormous trade. Having made
money he thought to make things look smart, so he
abolished the sanded floor and substituted glazed
tiles. Whereupon half his customers left. And
why ? Because alcohol has a paralysing effect,
and the boozer, whose hold on the earth is, espe-
cially in the morning, very uncertain, has an in-
stinctive aversion to a slippery surface.
#
When Dr. Camidge, Bishop of Bathurst,
bounced Canon Dalrymple, now of Pyrmont,
from South Bathurst C. of E., he installed as in-
cumbent an acquaintance of his own whose
ministrations were not received with absolute
enthusiasm by the congregation. The usual split
followed ; the flunkeys and invertebrates hung on
to the skirts of the Bishop and the Rev. Mr.
Brown ; and the folk with more backbone
scattered to other congregations. Mr. Brown ran
a Sunday-school consisting of three sets of petti-
coats and a pair of knickers, whilst the numerous
tender lambs of the rebellious portion of the flock
were looked after on Sabbath morningand afternoon
by some of the secessionist teachers. All of which,
of course, would be of not the slightest public
interest were it not that current rumour, in
Bathurst, debits Canon Dalrympie’s successor with
carrying his natural antagonism to the latter
establishment into a very different arena. Several
of the children attending the rival Sunday-school
are pupils of the public school where the episcopal
protcr/e is supposed to give occasional religious
instruction, and it is now reported that he has
declined to permit these hardened schismatics to
attend his week day class —a course of action that,
if true, certainly brings Mr. Brown within the
purview of the Public Instruction Department.
* * #
Unless Adolphus be hopelessly saturated
with love he can generally detect the veiled symp-
toms of a “temper” in Angelina during the
happy courting period. Sometimes, however,
even a downy widower can be lured into the vain
belief that he has spotted a real angel for his
“second.” One of the smartest men believed
it until, two days after the solemn event,
his partner began to play up with the fire-irons
and things something fearful. When the paroxysm
had subsided, he asked her how she managed to
restrain her fury in the dear old days. And with
penitent simplicity she answered, “I used to
excuse myself from you for a few minutes and
g-g-go upstairs and bite pieces out of the top of
the bu-bureau.”
* * #
The Duchess of Fife was presented, “on
her marriage,” at her royal mother-in-law’s Draw-
ing Room, the other day. It was a howling piece
of absurdity, but not more absurd than the solemn
levee presentations of colonial premiers to their
respective governors, with whom they have pro-
bably been having a drink the night before.
* * *
T 1 ic S. M. Herald has so far forgotten
what is due to Respectability that it allows a man
to write in its columns that he would cheerfully
make one of a party to tar and feather the clergy-
man and others responsible for the hideous jang-
ing of the bells of a local church.
* * *
In the latest novel the heroine rejects her
false lover in the following terms: “When you
have a black and stormy past, when you have
twenty aliases and very likely as many wives,
when your face is covered with scars that grow
livid and palpitate in your terrific bursts of
passion, when you would as soon murder me as
look at me, when there is a price on your head
and the bloodhounds are on your track—why,
then, if you want to marry me, come on your
black charger and carry me away fainting, over
the gory body of papa. ”
# # #
The accursed drink again. There has been
trouble at Government House, Adelaide. Gover-
nor Kintore’s favourite tipple is Scotch whisky,
and he has a favourite brand of his own im-
portation, which he jealously guards from drouthy
visitors. But one of his retainers had no such
scruples, and the latter’s friends, after leaving the
cellar by the back door, usually found the shrub-
bery a good place to sleep off the effects of Kin-
tore’s “Kilnamoul,” or whatever it was called.
So the aide-de-camp carries the key now.
* * *
Miss Cummings, said to be an Australian
heiress, was recently married at Eaton Square
Church, London. Instead of bouquets the brides-
maids carried baskets of grapes. Rather prophetic,
this.
* # #
Melbourne Yorick Club gave Toole a
dinner the other Saturday night, commencing at
11.30. According to arrangement, the. spread
lasted until 10 a.m,, when the Club took Johnnie
down the Bay to recover. This was kinder than
luring him on to 100. J.L. is to be congratulated
upon his escape from the Melbourne Monte Carlo.
* * #
It is the custom of a man of the highest
caste—the Navis —of Malabar to marry a girl of
his own caste, and leaving her immediately after
the ceremony, never to revisit her. To perpetuate
the caste, the bride forms irregular associations
with other Navis. A certahi ex-Premier of an
Australasian colony was probably a Navis.
# # *
The stage-door of the Melbourne Bi jou is
quite a novelty, not a bit of mystery about it, a
kind of warehouse-entrance, into Little Collins-
street. There is something sacrilegious about this,
for masherdom loves mystery—a little dirty alley
where the ballet conies out. What a history could
be written of stage-doors ! The Cerberuses we
have known, and all the treasures they have
guarded. Think of the long procession through
the Melbourne Royal, from Coppin and Brooke
down to stagger and stride, props and vamp.
Perhaps the Bijou will begin to look a bit stage-
dooi-y when' a few thousand backs have been
rubbed agin it, ageing it like, while reminiscences
exude by Ber-rown, the ter-ragedian, of the palmy
days of the der-ramer. “ Givvybrook, sir !”
# # #
Here is a chance seldom advertised :
T ADY living in Summer Hill, having larger house
_ than required, would like two gentlemen boarders
willing to share same bedroom ; no other hoarders oi
children ; five minutes’ from station. Address Dora
P. 0., Summer Hill.
# * *
The plaintiff in a South African divorce-
case attributed* his wife’s alleged misconduct to
the effect of pernicious literature. The lady there-
upon stated that the only books she had ever read
were “Called Back,” “East Lynne,” “Kitfchener’s
Cookery,” “ Enquire Within ” and the “Bible.”
Such a misinformed woman was obviously at the
mercy of any unprincipled novel-reader that came
aPng.
* # #
In Spring-street, Sydney, Mr. De Wolf
has an office. Just round the corner in Gresham-
street is the office of Mr. De Lamb. De Wolf
and De Lamb !
* * »• *
Gladstone’s head, according to the New
York World, has been gradually expanding for
the last 20 years, and a Court hat, which he
formerly wore with comfort, now wobbles help-
lessly on the very pinnacle of his splendid skull.
Parkes’ head, which hasn’t been growing like a
spring cabbage since he attained to manhood, is
exactly the,same size as Gladstone’s at present.
For this great historical fact a well-known Mel-
bourne artist is our authority. When he visited
WINTER PROSPECTS.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
Women, in their wiles,
Follow Fashion’s hints ;
Simpler grow the styles.
Brighter glow the tints.
Tight and narrow skirts,
Like umbrella-cases;
Corset, tightened, hurts,
Ample shoulder-spaces.
' When you’ve “ got e’m on ”
At an out-door levc s e,
Nothing’s now hon ton
If it’s not top-heavy ;
But in evening dress
(Waly, waly, willowy)
Nothing’s chic , I guess,
But a bareness billowy. %
Lots we all can see
Of a “ full-dressed ” goddess !
Nothing’s left to Fancy
In the “ see-more ” bodice.
Gone, Oneiromancy !
Psyche’s idols, cracked!
Nothing’s left to Fancy,
All is naked Fact.
Border line of bodice,
On a Fashion-flirt, tends
Fast to meet on goddess
Where the ballet-skirt ends.
Women, in their wiles,
Follow one the many ;
Simpler grow the styles—
Soon they won’t wear any.
THE DIPSOMANIAC.


The SYDNEY DEPOSIT BANK,
90 KING- STREET -90
Established 1885.
Agencies in London and throughout Australia.
Overdrafts granted against Deposit of Deeds,
and all the usual banking business transacted.
The following are the Rates of Interest allowed
for Fixed Deposits
3 Years 9i per cent.
12 Months B.| per cent.
G Months 71 per cent.
3 Months 5j per cent.
6 per cent, allowed on daily balance of current account.
For the past Four (4) Years a Bonus of One per
Cent, has been paid in addition to the above rates.
This is the first and only Bank in the Colonies
which divides its profits with its depositors.
Communications from the country will be
promptly attended to.
T. S. RICHARDSON,
General Manager.
RobertsON’S Whisky. £2OO r*MI2ES.
scorn
EMUISION
CURES
WHAT
GIVHX AWAY IN THK ( OLANIICS
as follows ;
10 of £5 fcacli, 35 £3, ami 70 £l,
Pamphlets from the Agents, ALLT & C 0.,. Limited, CHARLOTTE PLACE, SYDNEY
OOiStJPUPTION
SCROFULA
BRONCHITIS
COUCHS
COLDS
Wasting Diseases
Wonderful Flesh Producer.
Many have gained one pound
per day by its use.
Scott’s Emulsion is not a secret
remedy. It contains the stimulat-
ing properties of the Hypophos-
phites and pure Norwegian Cod
Liver Oil, the potency of both
being largely increased. It is used
bv Physicians all over the world.
PALATABLE AS HfIBLK.
Sold toy all Chemists.
SCOTT & BOWNE, New York.
Sir ’Enry in Sydney he playfully got inside his
host’s old garden hat and found himself lost. Ven-
turing to comment upon the abnormal proportions
of this ancient relic, Sir ’Enry replied, “Gladstone
and myself are the only two men in the world who
take that size in hats,” after which he folded his
arms and fell into a dreamy reverie. Careful
thinking over this makes it clear to one that
Gladstone has been cultivating his head —manuring
it with learning, so to speak—-until he can lay it
down upon his pillow at night and say, “Even
Parkes can’t beat it.” The colossal pumpkin has
reached its full size. The force of Nature can no
further go. But, for all that, the fact remains
that were Hairy Parses to assume the hat of the
closely-clipped Home Ruler Dillon it would fit
him—like an extinguisher.
* * *
The Chancellor of the British Exchequer
has been squeezed by good old Henniker Heaton
into a proposal to reduce letter-postage to Austra-
lia and India to 2 Ad, Now, nineteen-twentieths
of the people of Australasia, and perhaps even
more, never write to England and have no interest
whatever in the question. The proposed reciprocal
reduction of postage from Australia to England
will only interest Calicojimmydom and that in-
significant section of city society whose distin-
guishing mark is that it wears a bell-topper
and gaiters, and carries gloves in its left hand,
and always dates its letters from the “club,”
dontcherknow. So far as The Bulletin is
concerned, it would like, until the Austra-
lian Republic comes, to see the postage to
and from England half-a-sovereign every time.
As to the prophesied and inevitable ultimate
reduction to a penny, we view with horror
the time when the “ Hon. and Rev.” (the “Hon.”
before the “Rev.”) Smith will be able to circu-
larise us every week in aid of the funds of that
most deserving and fashionable institution, the
Royal Home for Epileptic Cats —President, Her
Serene Highness the Princess Hohenlohe von
Soharffenberg Kafooslem of Saxe-Coburg Gotha.
* * *
Tate, a sensible member of the Victorian
Orchestra Committee, wants to know why
they can’t play on Sunday afternoons in the
Melbourne Town Hall. Why, indeed ? Why
must Melbourne be of necessity so much gooderer
than London, where they can hear a bit of music
sometimes in the parks? Bmt, then, Melbourne
must perk itself up, and think how much better it
is than wicked Sydney.
* * *
The Gillies Government is understood to
be discussing an Act for the suppression of in-
fanticide and illegitimate births. The first clause
will provide for the abolition of Sunday-school
picnics, and the second will ordain that all bald-
headed members of the Victorian Legislature be
kept under strict police surveillance.
* * #
The latest mining incident. Arrival in
Sydney of a yokel with a rich specimen of shale.
Eager capitalists inspect it, smell it, bite it, per-
form all manner of tests. The land must be
secured at once, but the opinion of an “ expert ”
must be had. One is commissioned to inspect the
land, and after doing so wires : “Disgusted—will
bo with you to-morrow, 12 noon.” They are there,
allof them—capitalists and speculators, but the dis-
coverer and informant does not attend. He comes,
does the expert. There are 20,000 angry devils in
his eye as he takes off his hat and sits down.
“ Your rich shale turns out to be,” says he,
“ nothing more than petrified—kangaroo-guano.
I will trouble you for a cheque for 100 guineas.”
The cheque is paid—but you mustn’t mention
kangaroos in Pitt-street now.
* # #
One of the Sydney insurance-companies
smells a rat in a recently-reported drowning-case.
* # #
A Wilcannia man writes to the local paper
saying that he thinks that the pigs ought to be
kept out of the cemetery. “Thinks” is good.
# # #
Up to now N.S.W. railway trucks have
been equipped with side-ohains to serve as checks
in the case of a break-away. In the deplorable
Bathurst accident, which cost four lives and much
damage, the trouble was caused by the sundering
of the draw-bar of a truck without side-chains.
The subject will probably be one for the lawyers
# # *
An English paper has an article on
“gigantic Australian worms.” They are large,
certainly ; usually about 6(5 inches long, bald and
pot-bellied; their habitat, Government House
levees and mayoral banquets.
# # *
The very best people of Sydney gathered
in a multitude like unto the sand by the sea-shore
one day last week in response to invitation-cards
issued by the representative of the Messageries
Maritimes Co., to inspect their splendid new
steamer Australien. Refreshments—that is to say,
pastry, confectionery, nick-nackeries, wine, and
sundry other beverages—were provided with a
liberality which suggested that the company had a
sort of premonition that some of their guests
might have been unduly prolonging the Lenten
season. It was a wise and kindly forethought, for
the charm of inspection faded into nothingness
before a free hand and nothing to pay at the
daintily-set tables. The elite spread itself like a
flight of locusts over a cultivation paddock; it
got in its work with the rapidity of a Maxim
gun and the precision of a Ministerial
minute. Those who were afterwards able
to walk about the ship saw that she
was not only large but luxurious, with prac-
tical provision for the comfort and enjoyment of
passengers in every direction. Lying alongside
the Cuzco—one of the least modern ships of the
Orient fleet —the Australian had the advantages
of comparison strongly in her favour; and a trip
to Europe in one of the deck-cabins, with a legacy
at the other end and a return passage secured in
Captain Didier’s yacht, would seem to be about
as much joy as a man could desire at any one
time.
* # *
There is much trouble in Sydney official
circles because one titled personage has not up to
date kissed the other titled personage’s baby.
* # *
Several “moonlighting” Sydney lodgers
have just discovered that just as there is a law to
prevent the landlady from removing her furniture
while she owes rent to the landlord, so there is a
law to prevent the lodger from flitting while he is
in debt to the landlady.
* * *
At a recent bachelors’ ball given by
Sydney’s most exclusive set, a distinguished-
looking and faultlessly-attired male stranger made
his appearance and danced and made himself
generally agreeable among the nobility, who
seemed to be under the impression that he was a
duke in mufti. Several of his partners’eyes are
now red with weeping, for the awful fact has
transpired that he was a recently-arrived book-
canvasser.
fE'ST^ ANAG-ED (OORT^PA)
' ~Y AT VA/ HERE, 'yOU (V\ E, IfN
“IN HOLIDAY-TIME.”
“THE BEST-MANAGED RAILWAYS IN THE WORLD.”
Vide Com. Speight.
“ But where are the first-class carriages?”
“Oh,” replied the porter, pointing to the cattle-trucks, “that is where you come in.”
—DAILY PAPER.
It is suggested in Melbourne that the
pointers, Alpha and Beta Centauri, be re-named
after the Baptist and Saint Paul. But w'hy
should we pass over Albert Edward and Victoria.
Hopetoun, Smith of Sydney, Gillies, “Timo-
theus,” the Argus office-cat, and Lachlan M‘Kin-
non’s prize pup ?
# * #
Culled from the S.M. Herald ;
SMITH —April 21, at the Royal Bank (in consequence
of the floods), Bargowlahmine, the wife of Henry
Walter Smith, suh-collector of Customs, of a son
(Roy Edgar).
A dam is often the consequence of a flood.
The Choicest Jewellery. Daiims & Co., King-st. Arcade.
The microbe of “La Grippe” is said by
Dr. Jouve, of Vienna, to have a “mitred head
like a bishop.” Always a parasite, the Church.
“I haven’t seen you with Miss Thingamy
since my return. Do you see much of her now ?”
“No; I don’t see her very often.” “ I thought
you and she were engaged.” “So we were.”
“ Did she break it off ?” “No; we got married. ”
A Melbourne thief, Thomas Reid, stole
from a bookstall “The Key of Heaven,” and was
sent to prison •
Booked by a book, indeed,
Sobs Tommy Reid, the “gun,”
If “ he that runs may read,’
He who so reads should run.
Philosophy is riven
At this most monstrous “cod,”
For, see ! the “ Key of Heaven ”
Just fits the gate of “quod.”
A Queensland Whist Party.
Ever So Many Years Ago.
“ Paddy Miles was a fisherman, gay and
light-hearted,” was the initial line of a plaintive
ballad about that gentleman’s adventures with a
mermaid, which used to be a great favourite in the
gun-room messes of Her Majesty’s ships in the
days when “Rule Britannia” still had some
meaning and none of the Great Powers of Europe
dared to snap'their fingers under her nose after a
fashion that even the smallest of them can now do
with impunity.
I have no grounds for suspecting the existence
of any connecting-link between Paddy aforesaid
and the central figure in this whist-party, who was
a Queensland senator of repute, other than the
possession by the latter of certain characteristics
which the ballad also attributed to the fisherman.
Paddy was of a genial disposition, a thirsty con-
stitution, a somewhat amorous development, and
the proprietor of a very varied, and at times
highly sulphurous vocabulary. So was the
Minister; but at no time was the resemblance so
great as when the “language” stop was full on,
and “expression ” strained to its utmost capacity.
* * *
The temperature was just a trifle over 100
degrees in the shade, and only an occasional puff
of wind, which had been previously heated in the
great camp-oven of the central plains, stirred the
foliage of the willows which marked the crossing-
place at the township on Acacia Creek, the then
terminus of the Southern and Western railway.
The Government offices and stores were all closed,
and even the public-houses were almost empty in
consequence of the absence of nearly all the best
drinkers at a public picnic in the scrub on the
slope of the Bunya Mountains. At 5 p.m. the
only occupants of the main street were three goats
and the auctioneer; the latter heading, in a
leisurely wAy, for the private entrance to the tele-
graph-office to get a cold drink from the only
underground tank in the township. Shortly after
the Police Magistrate came along with the same
object in view, and at about the same time the
hotel buggy drove past from the railway-station
with the only two passengers who had arrived by
that day’s train. Then the auctioneer and the
Police Magistrate, and the Telegraph-master
came out, with the bearing of men greatly revived
by recent refreshment, and followed in the track
of the buggy to the Imperial Hotel.
* * #
The coffee-room was in the undisturbed
possession of the two recent arrivals, one of whom
—the Minister of the Grown aforesaid —was par-
tially immersed in the contents of an exception-
ally large tumbler.
“A merry Christinas to you, old man. I see
you’ve got some of it there already.”
“ Merry Christmas be objurgated ! I’m chock-
full of fire and dust, and I can’t get home to-night.
That ass of a man of mine hasn’t brought the
buggy in. All the fault of the telegraph-
office, of course. And they tell me every -
horse and buggy in the township is away at
some picnic.”
“Ah, well! Yes! Never mind, though, we’ll
go over to the telegraph-office and make up a
quiet rubber, eh ? By the way, who is your
friend ?”
“No friend of mine; don’t know him. Come
up in the train with me. Some poor new-
chum; says he’s going to learn colonial experi-
ence at the Auburn. Here, Mr.—you—What’s-
your-name? These gentlemen are friends of
mine, good stock, too! Want to know if
you 11 join ’em in a rubber of whist ?”
“ Very kind, I’m sure. My name is Crawshay.
And I shall be most happy to accept their in-
vitation. But I fear lam not a very good hand
at whist.”
* * *
To meet the exigencies of whist, four into
five goes once and one over, and the cut-out fell
to the lot of the grateful telegraph man, who
sought to relieve the exuberance of his spirits by
thumping sonorous chords out of a piano.
‘ ‘ Stop that row, can’t you ! Who the
do you suppose can play whist in such a pande-
monium as this ?”
The cut for partners had joined the P.M. and
the Auctioneer against the Minister and the New
Chum—three earnest, soulful players, and one
more than doubtful.
“Well, I’m ! I say, Mr. Crochet, what
sort of a game do you call that ? Don’t you know
I’ve got a handful of diamonds?”
“ Crawshay, sir, if you please. My name is
Crawshay, not Crochet. But I regret the error
all the same.”
And the grizzled moustache was screwed tightly
down over the torrent which struggled to escape.
The second hand was played in a comparative
calm, but towards the close of the third the iras-
cible old gentleman’s best spade was triumphantly
trumped by the luckless new-chum.
“Well, of all the —— fools that ever played
whist, Crackshot, you are the biggest. _ If you
can’t follow the game you shouldn’t play it. Any
idiot in the next street could have told you I
held the biggest spade.”
“Crawshay, sir. My name is Crawshay, not
Crackshot; and not being the idiot you refer to I
was unaware of the very existenoeof that spade.
I informed you that I was not what might be
called a good player, and your warmth of expres-
sion appears to me to be totally unnecessary. ”
“No, Crawfish, you are not a good player.
You are a worse player than the parson
in Brisbane, and he is the biggest all-round
I know.”
Peace was once more restored, and the game
proceeded ; the last hand in the second rubber
was being played when the auctioneer claimed a
revoke, remarking incidentally to his partner,
“ that makes two trebles and the rub.” Then said
the Minister
“ Now, look here, Mr. Flagstaff, you can
this side of the main range, and if you take my
advice you’ll go back home by the next ship. I’d
boomaliy you in the eye for less than sixpence,
and ”
“My name, sir, is not Flagstaff, sir, either
with or without expletives. It is Crawshay as I
have before remarked, and I feel bound to say
that your ”
A knock at the door was followed by the query
from the groom at the Imperial:—“lsMr.
here ? His buggy has just come in from the
station.”
“Yes, I’m here,” muttered the old gentleman,
“and I’ll give that groom what for when I
catch him. Good night everybody.”
“ Good night, Cartwheel. Go and drown your-
self in the creek if you don’t want to get put into
Woogaroo for a —•”
Exit.
PLATYPUS.
There were live undertakers on the list of
shareholders in a recently wound-up Melbourne
Electric Lighting Co. We begin to suspect the
electric-light.
Not a single declared Freetrader has been
returned to the South Australian Legislature this
election ! Even the brainy Glynn was thrown out
for Light because of his advocacy of the Single-
tax. George was there all the time, too.
We were told by cable the other day that
William O’Brien, M.P., was about to marry Mile.
Raffalovich, a Parisian heiress; this was afterwards
contradicted, and now we read that O’Brien’s
novel, “ When we were Boys,” has been translated
by Mdlle. Raffalovich, a talented Russian lady,
into the French. Probably O’Brien, therefore, is
not about to marry an heiress, but his female col-
laborateur.
Since the commencement of the year and
the inauguration of the “ Wednesday Book
Lectures,” there has been such a demand for all
popular and modern works at Sydney School of Arts
that it has become necessary to duplicate and in
some cases quadruple the editions. Mr. Haviland,
we are glad to learn, is about to introduce a new
system for the delivery of books, which will be
much more expeditious than the present cumbrous
and obsolete plan.


Amusements.
JJER MAJEST Y’S THEA TBE.
Lessee and Manager Mr. Geo. Rignold.
Doors open at 7; commencing 7.40. Carriages at 10 35.
COMPLETE AND EMPHATIC SUCCESS OP
Mr. WILLIAM RIGNOLD
In a New and Original Drama, entitled,
“ 3XT O ~SA3 r A. .A. "ST S."
Box Office at Theatre from 10 to 5. Prices as usual.
J. P. Macdonald, Acting-Manager.
CRITERION THEATRE.
Under the Management of Messrs. Brough and Boucicault.
General Manager , .. Mr. Mayne.
Overture at 8 sharp. Carriages at 10.30.
LAST EIGHT NIGHTS! LAST EIGHT NIGHTS!
OP THU
ENGLISH COMIC OPERA COMPANY,
in
Millocker’s Charming Opera,
THE BEGGAR STUDENT.
The Opera produced under the personal direction of
Mr. HENRY BRACY.
Admission —55., 35., 2s. and Is.
Box Plan at Nicholson’s. Carriages at 10.30 p.m.
Joe Davis, Business Manager.
(SCHOOL OF ARTS.
MACC ABE I
MAGCABE I
MACCABE I
School
of
Arts.
f Mdlle. MINNIA
Mdlle. MINNIA
(Mdlle. MINNIA
TO-NIGHT and EVERY EVENING.
George Buller, Manager.
JJONDI AQUARIUM.
The Most Popular
PICNIC and PLEASURE GROUNDS of AUSTRALIA.
The Famous Switchback Railway, conveying
Passengers from Cliff to Cliff daily.
Splendid Asphalt Open-Air Skating-Rink Free to Visitors.
Open Daily from 10 a.m to 10 p.m.
Admission, Is.; Children, Gd. Trams to Gate—Fare, 4d
m H E A T R E ROYAL,
* ROCKHAMPTON, QUEENSLAND.
Seating Accommodation
( 200, Dress Circle.
0 200, Stalls.
[4OO, Pit.
Stage, 45 x5O feet. Scenery and Fittings com-
plete, and every convenience. Sliding Roof for
ventilation.
W. a. CAPOEN Sc CO , Lessees.
For Terms and Dates, apply
SABER BROTHERS,
Rockhampton.
HEA T R E
ROYAL
Under the Management of Messrs. Williamson,
Garner and Musgrove.
Lessee, Mr. S. Lazar. Treasurer, .Mr. Geo. L. Goodman.
EMPHATIC SUCCESS
of
Mrs. Potter and Mr. Kyrie Hellew,
in Sardou’s World-renowned Drama,
Da Tosca. Da Tosca.
Admission—ss., 3s. and Is.
£«, AIE T Y THEATRE
FRANK THORNTON’S
FAREWELL SEASON!
“Sweet Lavender.”
EVERY EVENING.
Admission
45., 3s. and Is.
Treasurer, JAS. E. KITTS.
LING HURST SKATING RINK,
SKATING
TO-DAY
SKATING
TO-NIGHT
SKATING
TO-DAY
SKATING
TO-NIGHT
SKATING
TO-DAY
SKATING
TO-NIGHT
SKATING
TO-DAY
SKATING
TO-NIGHT
SKATING
TO-DAY
SKATING
TO-NIGHT
SKATING
THE LARGEST AND BEST
IN THE WORLD.
Remember! Remember!
Seven Laps to the Mile.
THE SPLENDID FLOOR
PRONOUNCED
PERFECT!
THREE SESSIONS
TO-DAY.
Morning, 10 to 12. Ad.,6d. Skates
Free. Afternoon, 2.30 to 5.
Admission: Gents, Is; Ladies, (kl.
Skates, (id.
Evening, 7.30 till 10.15.
Admission, Is. Skates, Is.
Season Tickets:
Gents, 50s. Ladies, 40s.
SKATING
TO-DAY
SKATING
TO-NIGHT
SKATING
TO-DAY
SKATING
TO-NIGHT
SKATING
TO-DAY
SKATING
TO-NIGHT
SKATING
TO-DAY
SKATING
TO-NIGHT
SKATING
TO-DAY
SKATING
TO-NIGHT
SKATING
Theatrical
HOSIERY.
SILK
COTTON
WOOL
TIGHTS, SHIRTS,
AND
OPERA HOSE,
PADS, ANIMAL DRESSES, ETC.
SPECIALITIES MADE TO ORDER,
Cllt Trimmings, Knot*, Stage Fa brie*.
Manufacturers to all leading London and Provincial
Theatres.
AUSTRALIAN AGENTS WANTED.
B. BURKTET & CO.,
42 King Street, Covent Garden, London.
■JASMANIAN INDUSTRIAL EXHIBITION.
—TO BE OPENED-
IN
Launceston, Tasmania, Last Week in November, 1890
Applications for Space CLOSE Ist July.
Particulars obtainable from S. J. SUTTON, Hon. Sec.,
Town Hall, Launceston.
GUNTHER’S BRISBANE CAFE.
Gkorof, Street (below Hunter-st.), Sydnf.v.
CRED. GUNTHER, late of the Wheatsheaf Hotel,
•U Castlereagh-st., is desirous of informing his patrons
and the public generally that he has now become pro-
prietor of the BRISBANE CAFE, GEORGE STREET.
These premises are commodious, and every convenicnceis
obtainable. None but liquors of the first quality retailed.
Two of Alcock's Prize Billiard Tables j ovided. Files of
sporting and dramatic papers kept. Special ••.ccommoda-
tion for the theatrical profession.
It would be unkind to call Henniker
Heaton’s postage suggestion “a twopenny-ha’-
penny affair.”
Hot drinks in cold weather are usually
popular, but cold or hot, changeable or “set fair,”
no beverage has the bulge on Marshall’s Tonio
Nervine.
The recently-deceased Sam Lord, of Mel-
bourne, was especially prominent in the Shenan-
doah case, urging upon the Victorian Government
to seize the vessel, which they hadn’t the pluck to
do ; but Sam had the pleasure of drawing up the
bill for its quota of the Alabama damages. Mean-
while the Melbourne Club had feted Captain
Waddell, of the Shenandoah, and ho lived to com-
mand boats in the mail-serviee between Sydney
and ’Frisco.
Let us federate—with people at the other
end of the world, who know nothing of us and
don’t want to. London Lancet of March 1 speaks
of the “ Australian ” Postmaster-General ordering
the fumigation of suspected infectious correspond-
ence, and further shows its familiarity with
geography according to Carruthers-Hughes by
stating that “the Queensland authorities” did
not consider fumigation to be necessary, and had
“ ordered their officials at Watson's Bay and New-
castle to content themselves with simple in-
spection !”
Ingersoll was once accosted by a working-
man who addressed him as follows : —“ Mr. Inger-
soll, I am a poor, hard working-man, and have a
family to support, and I want a favour.”
“Well,” said the Colonel, “what can I do for
you ?” “I want to call a brand of my cigars after
you, and permission to use your photograph,”
answered the man. “ Certainly, my man, and I
will give you a motto, if you desire.” “I would
thank you if you would,” responded the man.
Colonel Ingersoll gave it to him as follows ;
“We shall smoke in this world, but not in the
next.” Some time afterwards Ingersoll was in-
formed that the man made 9000dol. out of the
brand of cigars in less than a year.
The S.M. Herald says that the Hastings
and Manning election resulted in “ the defeat of
the Protectionist agitators and in a victory for
Freetrade.” Not in the defeat of Protection, you
see, but only of the “Protectionist agitators.”
Which is magnificently characteristic of the sea-
side old woman with a broom. And here is
another piece of Herald tommyrot
On the guard returning in the evening, the fact was
communicated to the colonel commanding the camp that
Lord Hopetoun had been pleased to inspect the men, had
admired their physique, and had complimented Captain
Morris on their soldier-like appearance.
Lord Hopetoun had been “ pleased to inspect the
men. ” How long are we going to deal in phrases
expressive of the degradation of the landlord-
ridden country which sends us weeds of the Hope-
toun order at, say, £15,000 a year ?
Col. Bull governs Melbourne Gaol, as suc-
cessor of Wintle, Castieau and M‘Gee. Bull used
to be very high-toned, dreadfully haw-haw, as a
volunteer officer, but he has cottoned down to the
Peachum and Lockit business, dungeon keeper,
and boss key-rattler. Once a thief stole Wintle’s
chickens out of the gaol-yard, which was only
beaten by the man who robbed another of a watch
amid the audience of the Melbourne Police Court.
When Bull accepted the gaol governorship,
Toorakia couldn’t believe it —What! Chesterfield
turn turnkey ! Bull, who used to gallop about in
scarlet and epaulettes, cocked hat, and cock-tail
feathers ! However, Tommy the Nut, the several
hangmen, and all the other customers of the Hotel
and Burgoo Palace, give him a good character.
The well-advertised “Father” Ignatius
has, we read, now assumed the more exalted title
of “ Abbot.” On St. David’s Day his church was
illuminated with 200 wax candles and innumerable
small tapers, and three new monks were received
into the community. The “Abbot” was gor-
geously apparelled in cloth of gold, “ and the new
monks having taken a vow of celibacy, obedience
and poverty, lay on their backs on the floor of
the church.” A funeral pall was placed over
them, and the “ abbot ” read the Burial Service.
A black curtain was next drawn across the church,
hiding everything from the congregation, and
when it was withdrawn it was seen that the head
of each was encircled with a wreath. It is evident
that, notwithstanding the recent rumour of his
death, there is still plenty of life in “Father”
Ignatius.
Miscellaneous.
NOTICE.
AN A WINDY DAY,
V / By the Author of “ Her Own Sister,” &c.,
Is continued in
OAMILY HERALD PART for MARCH,
I 1 which contains also the continuation of
SLANDERED MEMORY,
\ NEW NOVEL,
A By theAuthorof “The Bailiff’s Daughter, ”&c.
.Also, complete Stories, Essays, Answers to
Correspondents, Cookery, Miscellanea, Enigmas,
Charades, Riddles, &c.
El AMPLY HERALD PART for MARCH,
1 The Australasian says ;
“This favourite domestic magazine retains all
its old interest and variety.”
The
LI AMPLY HERALD may be had in Half-yearly
1 Volumes and in Monthly Parts of all Colonial
Booksellers and Newsagents ; or the Monthly Part
direct from W. Stevens, 421 Strand, London,
England, for 14s. per annum, post free.
London: W. Stevens, 421 Strand; and at all
Newsvendors.
=Th.e Latest Rage! =
%
YOUR NAME neatly printed on Twenty (20) Beautiful
Embossed VISITING CARDS, comprising Floral
Landscape, Sea View, Bird and Love-Motto Designs. No
two alike. ALL FOR SIXPENCE in Stamps, postage
paid. Agents wanted. Samples free. Address —
Austral Card and Novelty Co.,
14 Hunter Street, SYDNEY.
Vickery's Buildings, 7ia Pitt Streeet, Sydney 5
ANO AT LONDON.
Telephone, No. 919.
mO CAPITALISTS, SPECULATORS,
and Others.
Vacant Lands near Sydney
AVAILABLE UNDER THE
Non-Residential Clauses of the Laud Act.
For particulars and terms apply to
“INVESTIGATOR,” 9
Box 89 >, (r.P.0,, Sydney.
Government Advertisements.
Department of Public Works,
Sydney, April 30, 1890.
Tenders for public works and
supplies.
For Conditions, see Government Gazette.
TENDERS for the Works, &c., specified below
will be received at this Department until 11 o’clock
a.m. on the dates mentioned.
WEDNESDAY, MAY 14.
Installation of Electric Light, Bullock Island,
Newcastle
Bridge, Lachlan River, at Forbes—Contract No. 1
Supply, &c., of Ironwork ; Contract No. 2,
Erection of Bridge (time extended)
Timber Truss Bridge over Minnamurra River,
road Shellharbour to Kiama. Cont. No. 1—
Supply of Iron Cylinders for Pier. Cont.
No. 2—Erection of Pier and Superstructure
Repairs, &c., Courthouse, Denman
Erection of Post and Telegraph Office, Silverton
(time extended) • ■
Additions, Police-barracks, Hay
Roofing Benevolent Asylum, George-street, Parra-
matta
Repairs, &c., Courthouse, Murrumburrah
Repairs, &c., Post and Telegraph Office, Walgett
Horse-shed, Buggy-house, Fencing, &c., Court-
house, Corowa
Erection of Post and Telegraph Office, Cundle-
town (fresh tenders).
Erection of Boiler and Engine-house, North
Shore Water Supply
Repairs, &c.. Post and Telegraph Office, Berry
Erection of Watchhouse, Clarence-street
Bridge over Wollondilly River at Baw Baw Road,
Goulburn to Pomeroy
Horse and Buggy Shed, &c., Courthouse, Tum-
berumba
Construction of Wharf at Sans Souci, George’s
River
Extension of Coraki Wharf, Richmond River.
Contract No. 58 Sydney Sewerage, Alexandria
and Macdonaldtown Sewer
Extension of Tramway to Waverley Cemetery
Wharf at Miller’s Forest, Hunter River (time
extended)
WEDNESDAY, MAY 28.
Repairs, &c., at Lighthouse, Crowdy Head.
Construction of Landing Stage at Menindie, and
Supply of Crane for service thereon (time
extended)
Removal of Rocks, &e., Port Macquarie
Engines for Sand Pump Dredgers, Nos. 4 and 5
Repairs, &e., of Lighthouse, Newcastle (fresh
tenders)
WEDNESDAY, JUNE 25.
Bridge over the Murray River, at Corowa—Con-
tract No. I—Supply of Ironwork. Contract
No. 2—Erection of Iron Bridge
WEDNESDAY, JULY 9.
Works, Nyngan—Cobar Railway
Works, Calcairn—Corowa Railway
Works, Kiama—Nowra Railway
WEDNESDAY, AUGUST G.
Bridge, Hunter River at Aberdeen —Contract
No. I—Manufacture of Ironwork, ,&c. Con-
tract No. 2—Erection of Bridge
BRUCE SMITH.
General Post Office,
Sydney, 2Sth April, 1890,
ATTENTION is directed to Gazette Notice
inviting Tenders for the conveyance of
mails between West Maitland and Gosforth :
Kurrajong and Comleroy Road.
Tenders will be received up to the 7th May
next, and must be addressed to the Secretary to
the Post Office, Sydney.
' DANIEL O’CONNOR.
Ill
Miscellaneous.
ARTHUR OUT & CO. (
TEA IMPORTERS
AND
BLENDERS,
FOOCHOW and SYDNEY.
Office and Sample Rooms :
385 Pitt Street, Sydney.
T
Agents Wanted in every Town throughout
the Colony.
A YERY BREASTPLATE
AGAINST COUGHS, COLDS, &c.
This is how the
EEVD, MARK GUT PEARSE
The great Wesleyan Preacher, refers to
ALLCOCK’S
:po:rotjs
PLASTERS
And it only needs a trial to prove their great
value. They are applied externally and can be
worn with perfect comfort and ease, generally
relieving and curing in from three to four days.
In Asthma, Bronchitis, Rheumatism, Lumbago,
Sciatica, they are simply invaluable, and many of
the little complaints that grow into big ones
through improper treatment might be avoided by
wearing one on the chest and another between the
shoulder blades. Never has such genuine testi-
mony been given before.
ATjLCOCK’S Porous PLASTERS
are sold by all Chemists in various sizes, from
Is. to 225. 6d., but be very caneful to see that
you get ALLCOCK’S, as abominable rubbish is
being palmed off by unscrupulous traders.
DEATH.
WALLIS. —At Charters Towers, North Queens-
land, on the 10th February, 1890, John
Wallis, Miner.
Furniture, &c.
NEW T O N AND LAMB.
FURNITURE and PIANOFORTE
WAREHOUSEMEN,
CABINETMAKERS, UPHOLSTERERS.
AND
BEDDING MANUFACTURERS,
SHOW BOOMS AND MANUFACTORY:
SPRING AND O’CONNELL STREETS.
'
EASY CHAIRS, for Parlour, Library, or Bed-
rooms, new designs, covered to order, in
any material.
PIANOFORTES, by R. LIPP and SOHN,
L. NEUFELD and other Celebrated
Makers at WHOLESALE PRICES. Newton
and Lamb.
AGATELLE BOARDS, Portable, various
1 sizes.
Bedroom suites, complete, in various
Woods, and very handsome designs, with
7 feet Wardrobes, or with smaller Wardrobes for
single rooms. Great variety.
NEWTON and LAMB,
Furniture Warehousemen,
SPRING AND O’CONNELL STREETS.
BEDROOM SUITES, fashionable early
English designs—Wardrobe 4 feet, with
silvered plate-glass door : Washstand, with marble
top and tile back, Towel Rail; Toilet Table,
with Swing Glass attached; and Two Cane-
Seated Chairs, 14 guineas.
NEWTON & LAMB,
O’Connell and Spring Streets.
D
/N ANYAS FOLDING
VO COTS, for camping
out. A cheap occasional
l>ed light, strong, and
handy, 10s. Gd.
Newton & Lamb.
DINING TABLES, with patent extending
screws, from 5 feet long and up to 20 feet.
WALNUT TELESCOPIC DINING
TABLES with extra leaves, strongly
made, £3 10s.
HALL FURNITURE, HATSTANDS and
CHAIRS. LARGE ASSORTMENT.
NEWTON & LAMB.
Library furniture, centre ami
SIDE TABLES, BOOKCASES, SECRE-
TARIES, READING and LOUNGE CHAIRS.
COMMODE CHAIRS, BIDETS, with Pan,
SHAVING STANDS, NEWTON and
LAMB.
Japanese blinds, white ;or Green (extra
quality), fitted with pulleys and cord, G x 8,
Gs. Gd.; 8 x 8, 95.; 9 xB, 9s. Gd.; 10 xB, 10s. Gd.;
12 xB, 12s. Gd.; 12 x 10, 15s. Newton & Lamb,
Furniture Warehousemen, Spring and O’Connell
Streets.
EASY CHAIRS for Parlour, Library or Bed-
rooms. New Designs covered to order in
any material. Newton & Lamb.
CJ ELF-ADJUSTING CHAIR and COUCH’
for Invalids and Medical Men.
ROCKING EASY CHAIRS, elegant and
restful—-a speciality. Newton & Lamb.
D
MERICAN PATENT
SHUT UP
CLOTHES DRYER.
135 feet of hanging space.
Vehy Cheap.
NEWTON and LAMB.
Ď
IANVAS FOLDING
CHAIRS.
Substantial and Light.
Suitable for Shipboard and
Verandah.
Price Very Low.
NEWTON and LAMB
Fu nature Warehousemen,
Spring a «d O’Connell Streets.
GARDEN SEATS, Gft. long, Rustic Cast-iron
Standards, 14s. Gd., 195., 255., 32a. fid.
Newton and Lamb.
VERANDAH CHAIRS.
INDIAN LONG ARM LOU NO ES.
Rattan verandah lounges, from,
155.; and large variety of Chairs, froth 1
10s. Gd.; special designs, extra quality. Newton
and Lamb, Furniture Warehousemen, Spring and
O’Connell Streets.
EWT O N AN 1) LAM B.
FURNITURE and PIANOFORTE
WAR EHOUSEMEN,
CABINETMAKERS, UPHOLSTERERS
BEDDING MANUFACTURERS.
Show Rooms and Manufactory :
SPRING and O’CONNELL STREETS


Batho’s Baking Powder.
Use B.vruo’s Baking Powder.
el >al)!e Watch Repairs. Daiims & Co., King-st. Arcade*
V
IE iOUT 1 - I
Depth 2- I'
L 1 M WT E D )
D
T s thaniMt complete and .perfect iiistriimcnt ever offered at iho price.
X Seven Octavos,.Full Trichord,- Iron Frame, Patent Cliool; Action, Bras'
Bill. Plate, Cross-strung, requiring onty the nUnimum of Tuning. 'The tflUu
g po'verfql, clear, UriUiant and pure.- In veryiclegant Black and-Gold -or
Walnut " - -
Tivis-Piano isiwttroduced by )Y. 11. PALIXfJ & CO., Eduied, -for-the
purpose of tmedtmg a long-felt demand for a'good, reliable instnunchfat an
■easy 'price, and t|jercßy giving to the bead of almost- eVfciy household on
opportunity of supplying his home with a ffrscdass Piano at a price heretofore
paid for a'much inferior instrument, jA
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
Old-fashioned Jewellery modernised to perfection,
signs free. Daiims and Co., King-street Arcade.
De-
John Bridge and Co.’s Report.
Hides.— Larger supplies forward for last Fri-
day s sales than for months past. The heavy
stocks available, however, being more than equal
to tanners’ requirements and shippers buying but
few m view of the low state of the London market,
values receded quite J to \ all round. We offered
a catalogue of 2305, selling 1957 at auction, ac-
cepting the decline established as we will now
have large supplies every week with the fine
weather. We quote—prime heavies, 2| to-3i :
exceptional weights made 3_j- to 3 h ; sloppy heavies,
2g to 2i ; prime mediums, 2g to 2§ ; green, 2d to
; lights, to 2J; extreme lights, 28 to 23 •
faulty hides, 1| to 2J.
Tallow. —As with hides, supplies were very
large on Friday, and, notwithstanding the fact
of a reported decline of £1 per ton in London, the
export demand is so strong that our market
suffered to the extent of not more than 2s. fid.
to 5s. per ton. We offered and sold 134 casks,
and quote—prime quality, £18 15s. to £19 ; extra
quality, £19 5s. ; good, £18 to £18 10s. ; medium,
£17 to £17 15s. ; lower qualities and broken pack-
ages, to £16 15s.
Wattle Bark.— Large supplies coming forward,
still market remains very firm. We offered 1112
bags Friday, selling 872 at following figures ;—
Prime, £8 15s. to £9 ; good, £710s. to £8 ; medium,
£fi 10s. to £7 5s. ; light and inferior qualities, £fi
Sydney, 29th April, 1890.
OUNTRY STOREKEEPERS, ETC.
A. M. MARKS & CO.,
—lmporters of—
Furniture, Pianofortes, Glass, Earthenware,
CHINA, FANCY GOODS, ELECTRO-PLATE,
CIGARS .1 TOBACCONISTS SUNDRIES
SOLE AGENTS FOR
Dawn Cigars and Salonica Turkish Cigarettes.
Special Novelties in all Lines for Christmas Trade.
Prices on Application to —
-A.- 3MC. Marks & Co.,
Should write or call upon
AUSTRAL’S
BIRTHDAY CUP.
Rand wick, May 24.
10,000 AT 1 EACH. 10,000
FIRST 2000
§3 '
hh ' v
- X
D
AUSTRAL’S
BIRTHDAY CUP
Ramlwick, May 24.
20,000 at 10 each. 20,000
D
ggS3«
10,00(
All communications by Letter only.
Address
“ AUSTRAL,”
CARE OF THE
NATIONAL BOOT MANUFACTURING COMPANY,
250 Pitt Street, Sydney.
The
Only Fair Way
«r
Drawing.
The
Only Pair Way
of
Drawing’.
-A-IXA-iM: BE3XSE2.
BIRT
Rum.
ID AY CUP,
50,000 at 10.
24tli HVTti.y.
-):(-
Address: “ ADAM BEDE,” care of H. N. Abbott,
(Owner of United Service Hotel, A uckland Theatre Royal, Abbott's Opera House, A uckland, N.
(Our Only Sydney Address)— POST OPTICE CHAMBERS, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Ask for the
Unequalled
“DAWN” 3d. CIGAR,
f a
Of all
Tobacco nists.
Store
Hotel
Wholesale Agents: A. M.
m F-W I wik« y m,' &K& I keepers.
MARKS & Co., 74a PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
D
DAWSON'S
Sole Agents for Australasia
VAUGHAN, EO6EES & 00.,
(Opposite G.T.0.)
108 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
p
E
R
F
E
C
T
I
S
WHISKY.
SUB-AGENTS WANTED
IN THE
PRINCIPAL CENTRES
THROUSHOUT AUSTRALASIA.
ST. JACOBS OIL
Basaitsclaim to be the GREATEST REMEDY
lot 1 AIN on the unimpeachable evidence of
thousands of credible and reputable citizens of all
pfirts of the world and in every sphere of life. SIX
TAmria have been awarded to ST.
JACOBS OIL at different International Exhibi-
tions for its marvellous power to relieve and cure
IUUCVO I'UIH
pain, its extraordinary merits have been placed
beyond all doubt by the severest of public tests,
it is the only absolute specific for rheumatism,
neuralgia, and kindred ailments. Its action is
safe, sure and speedy, penetrating deeply into the
seat of pain, and curing when everything else has
~ 0 ~ •*•*■■*■''*',7 iui in niotiiy
ways as there are misshapen beings.
MUSCULAR WEAKNESS.
Lame Back.-—The spinal column is the main-
stay of the body, that which stiffens up the
straight man or woman, and nature has provided
muscular supports to hold it erect.
TWISTED OUT OF SHAPE.
Distortions,—Men and women recklessly twist •
themselves out of shape, and the result is the few
standing straight and the many bending down.
Pains.—Those which afflict the back are the
most insidious or subtle. They come at times
without warning. We rise from a sitting nosture
to find the back so crippled, or strained', as to
cause acute suffering.
Cuke.— Rub the parts afflicted freely with ST,
JACOBS OIL. Rub hard and vigorously, pro-
ducing warmth, and if the pain is slow in yielding
wrap the parts in flannel steeped in hot water and
wrung out.
Q r COURSE, SIR!
The Waterbury will keep Greenwich, Sydney,
Mean, Sidereal, or any other species of time, ex-
cept bad time. In this respect,its morals are in-
corruptible. The old and threadbare story of
George Washington (deceased) and the apple-tree
has long since ceased to become a synonym 1 or truth
and unswerving accuracy. Now, if a fond and
lespeetable father wants to give his son a lecture
he should simply say: “Tell the truth like the
Waterbury, Johnny, and thin nobody will ever
doubt you.” This piece of advice, with a Water-
bury thrown in, costs you respectively thirteen
and sixpence, or one pound—according to whether
the Waterbury thrown in is one of the old favor-
ites, series E ; or one of the new Wonders, series
J (gent’s size), or L (ladies’ size).
Perhaps it is not generally known that the
Waterbury beats 255 times to the minute, 15 300
times to the hour, 867,200 times to the day, or
134,028,000 to the year. Just think of it! Now,
is it any wonder that thorough-going watch-
makers say that in order for a watch to keep good
time, it should be cleaned and oiled once a year
at the least ? And what machinery is there that
goes constantly, making 367,200 motions a day,
that will run for a month without cleaning and
oiling, except a man’s faithful friend, his watch ?
Waterbury Watch Repair Repot,
56 Margaret Street, Sydney,
23?“ Make a note of it.
oest, satest, and most effectual remedy for Spinal
Complaints, Incipient Consumption, Diarrhoea
Pleurisy, Tumours, Asthma, Bronchitis, Epilepsy*
Lumbago, Debility, Paralysis, Loss of Voice’
Nervousness, Indigestion, Palpitation, &c., and
have_ cured some of the most obstinate and dis-
tressing cases, after all other remedies (so-called)
have failed. They are constructed on scientific
principles, imparting an exhilarating, health-
giving current to the whole system without shock.
Owing to the great success and enormous reputa-
tion gained by Dr. Scott’s Genuine Electric
Appliances since their introduction (now many
years ago), they have, like all other good things,
been largely imitated by numerous parasitical
charlatans. Illustrated Circular and Price List of
Dr. SCOTT’S Genuine Electric Appliances sent
post free to any addre s on application to the
Pall Mall Electric Association,
56 MARGARET STREET, SYDNEY.
x 7 M WOXI V,
failed.
LUMBAGO.
CARRIAGE.-—Whv SO In:mV rinVi'l. frv.m ‘1 o-.’n,..,-
SYMPTOMS.
TREATMENT.
When writ hi,<j please mention this paper.
& CO. discard
the green bulb of the rose
and use the leaves only for their
Soaps, Perfumes, and Sachet
Powders, of which
Cashmere Bouquet
is the favorite.
This is a very tedious and ex-
pensive process, yet in no other
way could the delicacy of perfume
be obtained which distinguishes
COLGATE’S
SOAPS 0 PERFUMES. .
The Referee.
We don’t know that Bubear wa's greatly to
iilame for beating Brown on a deliberate foul in the
manner that he did. Had he attempted to pass Brown on
the outside —that is in the fleeter Brown’s water —he
would or might have placed himself in exactly the same
unfavourable position as that in which Brown had so
foolishly and clumsily forced himself. Anyhow, Brown
will have to do something vastly-better ere lie can be said
to have any pretensions to championship form ; for in-
stance, he will have to beat Bubear first. The incident is
simply an expensive item in Brown’s aquatic education ;
so far as speed goes, it would seem that he can “ donkey-
liek’’ the Englishman, but his stamina is still a matter
of debate. Rowing is a gambling-game ; scullers don’t
train and pull for wild parsley. If Bubear had neglected
ms opportunity, what would the people who found his
battle money have said?
* * #
The Kemp-Matterson race did not throw much
light on the Kemp-M’Lean contest. The conditions were
as favourable for fast time as in the M‘Lean-Matterson
race, and Matterson, in much better health and spirits,
rowed a far better race than with M’Lean, yet Kemp beat
him by a much greater distance in slightly better time.
Kemp is a much more finished sculler than M’Lean, and
apparently a much faster man, and should the latter fail
to find out his weak spot in the first mile and a half Kemp
will probably row over him. But M’Lean is a nasty
persistent person who has about him a lot of the iron man
* # *
“ Billy ” Murphy got so excited over the ham-
mering that Harry Jones, of ’Frisco, was giving his
brother James, that he proceeded to rub that worthy’s
head with a bucket and then nearly choked him with a
lump of ice. When “Jimmy” recovered consciousness
after the “ knock-out,” William informed him in elegant
language that ho was too fond of lemonade and ought to
skip back to Australia.
* * *
George Moore, an old intercolonial cricketer of
note, resident at Maitland, is dead. “ Old George,” as he
was familiarly called, was a bowler of no mean capacity.
His last appearance in a big match was on the old Albert
Ground against an English Eleven, when he had a man
to run for him and another to pick up and hand him the
ball !
* * *
Since Jackson and a few others have shown that
a combination of pugilism and politeness is popular, the
whole profession of pugilists seem to be endeavouring to
harmonise the doctrine of non-resistance, and the solemn
duty of “slugging.” The consequence is that the
“gentle pugilist” has been evolved—a creature whose
reputation for meekness is only equalled by his aptitude
m tackling every apparently “soft thing’’’that comes in
his way :
You may bang him on the bugle
Till the claret flows galore,
And you’ll find the gentle pug’ll
Only ask you for some more.
You can slug him till you’re tired,
Plug his eyes up with your fist, <
And you’ll find when you’ve perspired,
He’s a gentle pugilist.
But don’t you try it on, young man,
Now, don’t you try it on.
You may land him with a brickbat,
You may bathe him in his gore,
Smash him (if you know the trick) flat,
And then tramp him on the floor;
You may flatten every feature
And they never will be missed,
And you’ll find the peaceful creature
Still a gentle pugilist.
But don’t you try it on, yeung man,
Oh, don’t you try it on.
Twould he lunacy to doubt it
The silliest of “mugs,”
If he likes to go about it,
Can chaw up the best of “ pugs,”
For no matter where you hit kiin
He’s bound not to resist,
For he knows his game is to earn a name
Asa gentle pugilist.
Sydney. Edwd. J. Dempsey.
* * #
Set out the ligatures and slings ;
Get ready compresses and springs ;
All things, from finger-stalls for “touches,”
To splints, and timber-toes, and crutches
Have pledgets handy—cataplasms
To fill all sorts of fleshly chasms ;
Have props, and splicers, wads and trusses,
And bandages, and red-haired “ misses,”
With freckled hands and honest squint;
• And sticking-plasters, oil, and lint,
And lotions, cerates, salves and styptics,
Detergents, too, and eucalyptics,
And embrocations “vets.” do give,
And liniments all lenitive,
Pain-killers, poultices and patches,
And ointments suitable for scratches
Set out your lances, probes and vents,
Your saws and sawbones’ instruments,
Have nought forgot, set out them all,
Provide a perfect hospital;
For any sudden sad mischance,
Be ready with your ambulance.
“ Why all this thusness?” Why, my son—
The Football season’s just begun.
Dipsomaniac.
* * *
The defeat of the English cricketing team by
Barsee Eleven considerably annoyed The Indian
Government swells. Ulan
*' * *
The Duke of Beaufort has wiped out the dis-
Pff. of . ow . n . ln e Lo ';d Arthur Somerset by winning the
handicaps—City and Sub. and Great Metropolitan
at the late Epsom meeting.
* * #
On the Earl of Durham’s resolution the Jockey
T™ D ,.v a m°ng whose honorary members Kings are as
wn’tfl/f rabb ! ts ) bas decided to admit a short-hand
mte! to all meetings of the club, with a view (o publish-
,rii,.Vi' :,aUm ,!'° l)ol '! S in tbe Baring Calendar. Asa
wheal innovation, this beats the execution of Charles the
1 us u m a hand canter.
Stakes is a nation of traders. Two-
liras of the business men of the Republic use
S-u.plo s free»t
VREETRADE ok PROTECTION.
Some vote Protection, some Freetrade,
As best for this young country's weal.
"?ut ask the youth or blushing maid,
And each will answer—Pewell’s Meal !
As best, because it has been tried,
there’s nothing half so good beside,
rijs (jtoldbn Meal is what I mean,
ls S°od and pure and cheap, I wean.
In a level match of 12,000, allowing Mitchell,
whose arm was sore, to make 45 spots in a break, Roberts
won by nearly 5000 points.
* * *
A Sydney evening paper came out with “Brown
won, the other day, 15 minutes after the Star was on
the street with the correct griffin—'“ Bubear won on a
foul.”
* * *
Adcock and Cos. are giving a £2OO billiard-table
and money-prizes to be played for at Melbourne
Athenaeum by Evans, Gray, Lindrum, Weiss, Memmott,
tower, Smith and Azzopardi in order to decide who is
best fitted to meet Champion Roberts with 500 start in
every 1000 when he comes along.
* * #
Ihe Burge-Dawson fight at Foley’s hall last I
Monday for the light-wei h 1 championship, £2OO, and the
gate, ended, as when they met in a thirt -ei ht rounds |
battle months ago, in a draw, after fifty rounds of stub-
born fighting, which lasted for three hours and a quarter.
Dawson is a pleasing but by no means finished boxer, and
is six pounds heavier and nearly twenty years younger
than the much-married “Ironbark Jimmy,” his doughty
foe, whose left arm was not held out with the semapho-
nan rigidity of the Burge-Baxter contest, but carefully
held down for the protection of his ribs. Burge was
fighting for his own money, and at the start weight of
® awson favourite at 6 to 4 on, in some cases
with the draw thrown in. As the weary hours rolled on
Burges legs, seemingly his only vulnerable point,
showed signs of giving way, the left being especially
feeble ; Dawson’s right-hand had gone, his wrist
was badly puffed and his left eye was “bung,” while Burge
had the shutters up on his long - ere the regulation hour
for closing. Throughout Burge was receiver-general (he
got m some nasty ones on Dawson’s throat), and his fac°
usmally immobile as that of a heathen-god, towards the
close was somewhat distorted, while the ribs under his
left arm were liberally endorsed with Dawson’s auto-
graph. But the deliveries of both men throughout lacked
power ; Dawson’s blows only seemed t® steady “ Jimmy ”
whose wild lurches into vacancy during the evening must
have displaced a vast amount of atmosphere. No man
had ever occasion to take ten seconds on the floor, the
voice of the referee (Major Macdonald) was never heard,
and the proceedings towards the close became so mono-
tonous that no one was sorry when the affair terminated.
The audience - large and enthusiastic—was very orderly,
although several legislators and suburban aldermen were
present, and the generally-expressed opinion was that no
more stubborn, more straightforward, or better conducted
fight has been seen in Sydney.
* # #
According to cable Kirkham and Narellan have
been badly beaten in a trial by Icelander, a three-year-old
of .P 00r re pute to whom they were conceding a stone.
■This looks frosty, but then who believes the cable
especially when it is worked in the sporting interest ">
* # #
A young Englishman, just arrived, who saw the
Kirkham youngsters at work the week before he left, says
Bowes is greatly dissatisfied with the English methods of
training, and says Pay ten ought to have been sent home
with the nags.
. Hex, the winner of the Liverpool Steeplechase,
is a kind of family connection of an old Bulletin contri-
butor. That is to say, the sire of the man formerly owned
and raced the sire of the horse—Rostrevor.
* * #
Adelaide backers of horses have religious scruples
about cashing- up when they “find a loser.”
THE PROOF OF THE PUDDING’S IN
THE EATING.
Referring to the famous St. Louis Lager Beer,
H. C. White, Chemist of Prohibition, Georgia’
writes, on analysing this beer; “Contains high
percentage of hop and malt extract and a low per-
centage of alcohol. It is pure and wholesome
beverage, and I can recommend it on the score of
healthfulness.” The best in'the world, says the Ger-
man brewer ; Akadamic at worms on the Rhine.


Land at Perth, W.A., the best investment
Plans from Intercolonial Investment Co., Ltd.
9G Bathurst-ttreet, Sydney.
Business Announcements.
WA. LEWIS, old-established Private Detective’
■ for the discovery of Missing Friends, tracing
Absconders, watching Suspected Persons, and prosecuting
all kinds of Private and Confidential Enquiries ; obtaining
Evidence in Divorce, Libel, Fraud, Bigamy, Breach of
Promise ; extracts from or Copies of Wills, or Certificates
of Births, Marriages or Deaths obtained in any part of the
world. Bankrupt Schedules Filed, £l, by a legal gentle-
man duly admitted and practising in all the courts of
N.S.W., who may bo consulted at my office on all legal
work. Consultation Free. Rents and Debts Collected,
1) stress Warrants issued, steady and trustworthy Bailiffs
employed, and all moneys received are promptly accounted
for. VV. A. LEWIS cautions the public against so-called
old-established private detective agencies, as he is con-
nected with no agents in Sydney. An intelligent, well-
trained staff of Male and Female Assistants retained,
capable, when necessary, of assuming any character in
life—from a newspaper boy to a clergyman, or from a
servant girl to a lady. Terms Moderate. Consultation
Free. Address —
Piuenix Chambers, 158 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
|Telei>iione 723.
Study your Byes.
SPECTACLES of every description to suit all sights
from Is. to ss. Pebbles. ss. to 10s. Gauge for testing
your sight. Price List and a Treatise on “Vision and the
Use of Spectacles,” sent Free.
W. 15. TOOSE, Speclacle Maker A Optician,
418 Georqe Street, Sydney.
"jEST" Awarded Nine Medals at various Exhibitions.
13. C. X.-
VERY = OLD = SPECIAL
SCOTCH = WHISKY.
DISTILLERIES CO. (Limited).
V
Th E
ROYAL
EDINBURGH
CASTLE”
SpECIALRESER VE
A A /t
OLD
scotchWhisky
ROYAL
Edinburgh Ensile
WHISKY.
« * *
Special Deserve.
In Square Bottles.
This Whisky was
selected by our Gene-
ral Manager, Mr. Jas.
Cullen, during his
recent visit to Scot-
land, and through its
purity, age and mag-
nificent bouquet, has
already secured the
premier position inthe
market. In cases, qrs.
and octaves. To be
had Duty Paid from
any of the Wholesale
Wine and Spirit Mer-
chants and Distribu-
ting Houses, and in
Bond onhj from the
SOLE AGENTS,
William Campbell & Co + , Limited,
53 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
WILLIAM CARGILL
Photographic Stock Importer,
26 3VTJLS.KET STEEET,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
WONDERFUL
iJ) nnn A r>si
THE
$
The Most Marvellous Musical Instrument in
the World.
A £3 Instrument for Only £1 15s,
Wa are the Sole' Proprietors of this WONDERFUL and
FIRST-CLASS OROANLTIE. It is a Reed instrument and is
constructed on the same principle ns an Organ with Bellows,
and Full Sized Heeds. The music consists of perforated sheets,
which are put into the Organelle, furnishing cither Finished
Solo Performance, a Rich Accompaniment to the Voice, or
Valuable Orchestral Effects. They are marvels of Musical
Invention, and combine in themselves a 1 the principles upon
which automatic Organs Organelles. &c arc now being mavle,
requiring no skill in the performer. Any child old enough to
use its hands intelligently can play, and the Range of .Music Is
Absolutely Unlimited.
We wish to introduce one of these Organelles m every town
and parish throughout the Australian Colonies.and in order to
do so speedily have concluded to sell & Limited Number to the
readers of this paper at ONLY £llss. each, but your order must
be received on or before Sept. Ist. 1890. as we shall place the
Organette at £3 each after that date. Wo will positively not
sell more than ONE ORGANETTE to any one person at this
reduced price, os we only make this unprecedented offer to
introduce this First-Class Organette throughout the world,
well knowing that after one is received in a neighbourhood we
will sell several at Our Regular Price-
We aro the Solo Proprietors of THE WONDERFUL
•‘VICTORIA'’ ORGANETTE and you must order direct from
us. or through our Authorised Agents Remember, the Won-
derful *• Victoria” Organettes are Large and Powerful
Instruments, built in tho most durable style, highly pol.shcd
and decorated in Gold ; the Reeds being so powerful that they
produce sufficient volume of music for the Chapel, Parlour,
Lodge. Ball Room or Picnic Party. There is nothing about
them to g«t out of order ; in fact, they produce a richer and
sweeter sound after havingbeen used a few years. For Home
Entertainments they are Unsurpassed.
The Illustration will give you but ft famt idea of bize
and Finish of this beautiful instrument, but we will return the
money and pay carriage to any one who ismot perfectly satisfied
After receiving it It Sings its Own Praises. With each
Organette we enclose a selection of popular tunes Free, and pack
all in a strong box. Tf you are in Melbourne at any time, call
on us. or if you have friends living here, you can request them
to call and purchase for you. If you wish to act as an agenv
for us, send AT ONCE and secure the agency for your section.
You Can Easily Sell tho Instruments at £3 to £4 Each.
Hundreds of Testimonials Received. Send money by Registered
Letter. Money Order, Draft, or Postal Note.
BPS" COUPON.—This Coupon will entitle the holder to
one of the Wonderful “VICTORIA” ORGANETTES.
.provided it is sent with £1 15s. and order, not later than
Sept. Ist. 1890. No order will be accepted without
this Coupon.unless full price. £3. is sent. £1 K*s. includes
nil charges for carriage by railway, steamboat, coach,
or earner, all over Australia.
(Signed) The Victoria Manufacturing and ImporiingCo.
Address or call on the Victoria Manufacturing
and Importing Co., 259 Collins St., Melbourne.
3F*JLer lOCot;el, •
. f f *
~
~ (
I- c* . *ss
mm
ELECTRIC PHOTO ENC. CO.. 8 BRIDCE-ST-, SYDNEY-
-1 ATI HER A iiIEOOKI. ■ Proprietors.
This Hotel has been Ke-Furnished throughout. IW° Cuisine and Comfort a Speciality.
A-cirons’ A* '.~v rrlictn g c Hotel) Sydney.
m- .
I:* 1.1 i ,
’ll Ut f fl-iicj;
m \
xn
JkJ&J
:v ;
Zr^*m
Wfaja&&
Adjoining the Sydney Exchange.
Mining, Financial and General Mercantile Intelligence
Posted several times DAILY in the Building.
TELEGRAPH, POST and MONEY ORDER OFFICES on the PREMISES.
This Hotel has been thoroughly renovated and re-fumished, and is now unrivalled for comfort
and attention. . .. , v _ ,
Aarons’ Exchange Hotel Co, (Limited), Proprietors.
THE
FLU 3VC.”
rHTS brand of Razor is something superior to anything that has ever been offered to the public.
Pure 'hollow ground, beautiful silver steel, and rings like a bell; set ready for use, and we
guarantee each Razor for two years. It never requires grinding, and to gentlemen who shave them-
j they cannot possibly do better than to try this particular brand.
Price
f Single Razor, in strong leather case, 10/6; Pair, in beautiful morocco leather case, 21/-
\ Single Razor, ivory handle, 15/-; Pair Razors, ivory handles, in beautiful case, 30/-
llegistered and sent Post Free to any part of the Australian colonies.
SOLE AGENTS: CRA-I& & AITKEKT, Potosi Hairdressing Saloon,
680 &. 682 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
JONES 7 SEWING MACHINES,
FOR THE BOOT AND TAILORING TRADES.
The Best Manufacturing Machines in Existence*
Now Perfected, the New No. 3 and No. 4 Machines on an Entirely new System.
00.,
JUST Xj .A. IST 13 11ST GK
KTettlieim, &
AND LEATHER MERCHANTS,
x STREET, x SYDKTEY.
Sole Agents for the above for New South Wales and Queensland.
(x)
•• - ■ •• MACHINERY,
Polish, Niihinn
Terms.
stock:
Farleigli,
TANNERS
16 x YORK
ALSO Importers of Requisites for the ROOT MANUFACTURING TRADE in all Details includii
iMi»oiiTFD LEATHERS. &c.; an<l of the following Spkcial Links: I eerles.s <.l«ss. Hntiik I
' UlmMiig. Toi ls and Materials. Indents Executed on favourable
Medical.
DR. RICHARDS,
ROOMS
i_r i
CONS
-
mm
R. RICHARDS
Ml
«Tli
■< =
This eminent Specialist, Founder, and Chief
Surgeon of the long-established and favourably-
known Dispensary that now bears his name, re-
ceived his medical education in the leading colleges
and hospitals of Europe. He has devoted a life-
time to the study of
PRIVATE, NERVOUS, AND SKIN
DISEASES.
He has by profound research thoroughly invest!
gated their origin, traced their deadly sources and
nsidious dissemination, and ascertained the surest
and safest methods by which they may be eradi-
cated, with these widely recognised qualifications
combined with unswerving faithfulness to his
patients, he has during his practice, extending
over FORTY YEARS, attained a well-deserved
pre-eminence in their treatment. His practice
embraces diseases which probably cause more un-
happiness than any other class of troubles that
afflict mankind.
YOUNG MEN
who suffer from the results of early follies, trans-
gressions or excesses of more nature age, bladder
difficulties, a whitish or dark ropy sediment in
the water, accompanied by slight burning or
smarting sensation, Headaches, Drowsiness during
ihe day, circles round the eyes, Giddiness,
irregularity of the bowels, specks before the eyes,
ba«hfulness, disconnectedness, weakness or pains
in the back. Liver or kidney complaints, dreams,
buzzing noises in the ears and head, pimples, a
fear that something dreadful is about to happen,
weak stomach, yellow or blood-shot eyes, impure
blood, hasty, uncontrollable temper, hacking
cough, who cannot marry, nervousness in society,
wakefulness, palpitation of the heart, general
weakness, and other symptoms which lead to in-
vanity and death, should consult him, for he has
mastered these difficulties. On receipt of 6d. in
stamps he will send secure from observation in a
plain wrapper, postage
FREE, A LARGE CLOTH-BOUND
BOOK.
Show ng plainly how all diseases of the private or
nervous syptem may be cured thoroughly and per-
manently without Unnecessary cxpcnce. This
book will prove a valuable companion, and even
-hough)on be perfectly well its general inform-
tiou and prescription may assist you in restoring
some poor friend to health even after his case has
been pronounced incurable by his medical at-
tendant.
ONE ROUND IS SUFFICIENT TO
SEND
for Remedies necessary for the eure of NER-
VOUS DEBILITY. Should you require medical
treatment, ns procrastination is sometimes dan-
gerous, it would be advisable for you to sit down
quietly in your chamber and write to the doctor,
detailing every experienced symptom. Ho will
on receipt of such a letter, wr.te you, promptly
and courteously, a candid and straightforward
| oponion of your case. If you do not think you
i understand the case, send for his famous medical
work, the price of which is but sixpence ; enclosed
in the volume will he found a 1-st of carefully-pre-
pared questions, which will, in all probability,
assist you materially in describing your ailment.
Dr. Richards uses nothing but the purest remedies,
and never prescribes mercury under any circum-
stances. The moment letters arc carefully per-
used and answered they are destroyed by Are,
and patients may rest assured that their cases
will remain a secret between the doctor and
themselves. Dr. Richards has successfully treated
nearly 25,000 cases since coming to Australia, and
has permission from at least 10,000 persons to
show their written evidence of his success. All
communications should be addressed
Dr. RICHARDS,
V Spring’ Street
(Off Pitt Street North)
SYDNEY.
Be sure to mention this paper when writing
CONSULTATION FREE.
THEIR [?]ENCES REBELIED.
FIRST BURGLAR (in dining-room): “Faith, Dinnis, here’s some foine cold mate. Oime hungry, too, after going
t’rough th’ house.”
SECOND BURGALR (catching sight of the clock): “Sure and we can’t ate it, Bill. It's Friday mornin', begobs!
FIRST BURGLAR: “Well, that’s too bloimed bad! Whoi didn’t we hurry up a bit!”


Skipping.
JJUDDART, PARKER & CO.’S LINE.
STEAM TO
MELiBO U B N E and TAH M A N I A .
From Huddart, Parker’s Wharf.
I 1 or Time and. Date of Sailing, see daily papers.
The magnificent steamships, BURRUMBEET and
ELINGAMITE, have established an unrivalled reputation
for their speed and accommodation, and their largo sue
ensures passengers a maximum of. comfort. The saloon
cabins are light, airy and very roomy. The dining saloon
is full width of the ships, also magnificent music room,
with gentlemen s smoking room and splendid promenade
deck. Fore-cabin is on the main deck-lofty and well-
ventilated, perfect sanitation and ample lavatories. Fore-
cabin passengers provided with victuals and rugs. Inspec-
tion invited on days of sailing.
FARES to MELBOURNE :
Saloon, Single £l5 0
~ Return 250
Steerage ... ... ... 10 0
FARES to LAUNCESTON:
Saloon, Single ... ... £2 5 0
~ Return 315 0
Forecabin 100
FARES to HOBART :
Saloon, Single £lO 0
„ Return 110 0
Return Tickets available for Six Months.
For Freights apply
HUDDAET, PAEKEE & 00-
(Limited).
Office and Wharf i Foot of Margaret Street, Sydney.
WORDDEUTSCEEE LLOYD
IMPERIAL GERMAN MAIL.
Passengeis are carried according to the requirements of
the English Passenger Acts of ISSS and 1863.
MONTHLY LINE OF DIRECT STEAMERS
from
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, and ADELAIDE
to SOUTHAMPTON, ANTWERP, and BREMEN, via
COLOMBO, Aden, Suez, and Genoa,
taking passengers for London,
connecting from PORT SAID by 1)1 RKGT MAIL and
PASSENGER LINE to BRINDISI,
will be despatched as follows pf practicable);-
VV.I vrmj IUIU WC-CiVS.
PASSAGE MONEY from SYDNEY,
£l4 to £67 10s.
RETURN TICKETS, available for NINE and TWELVE
MONTHS, at REDUCED RATES.
Passengers and Cargo are booked through to New York
via Southampton.
Special facilities are afforded for bringing out relatives
and friends from the United Kingdom and Europe by pre-
payment of the passage money in Australia.
tor I'HEIGHT, PASSAGE, and all further particulars
apply to J) REDK. BETZ & CO., Agents, 5 O’Oonnell-street.
OOMPAGNIE DES MESSAGERIEsTIMARI-
SYDNEY to LONDON.
OVERLAND FROM MARSEILLES via PARIS.
Steamers under postal contract with the Government of
France, calling at MELBOURNE ADELAIDE KING
GEORGE’S SOUND, MAKE, SUEZ, and PORT SAID
Passengers hooked to KURRACHEE BOMBAY
MAURITIUS, and EAST COAST of AFRICA. ’
The service is carried on by powerful steamers of 4000
tons and 3000 effective h.p., built expressly for the Aus-
tralian and New Caledonian line, which will he despatched
as follows
Steamers.
SYDNEY
SALAZIE
...... nu. 1.1 V,II llionm.
. Rates of passage-money to Marseilles from £2O to £65
including table wines and Suez Canal dues on passengers’
RETURN TK KE I S issued at the following rate.-
First Second
Available 9 months
Available 12 months
. Kl Whsh interpreters meet through passengers for
r 1 * ■ l V-. at JJUOOUIIi;CI3 lUI
nomion on arrival of steamers at Marseilles, and accom-
them to Paris and Calais. N.B. Passengers’ Imo.-age
pany
conveyed free of cost from Marseilles to London, ror
height, passage, and further particulars apply at the
Company’s Office, 15 Macquarie-place.
• - A. CONIL, Principal Agent.
jJIRECT SERVICE TO ENGLAND.
PENINSULAR AND ORIENTAL STEAM
NAVIGATION COMPANY.
®^ om P an J’’’B Royal Mail Steamships (under contract
«imi the Imperial, New South Wales, Victorian, and South
Australian Governments) will he dispatched from their
'' nart, Circular Quay, as under, for LONDON, calling at
Me Adelaide, Albany, Colombo, Aden, Brindisi,
wiaita, Gibraltar, and Plymouth.
Steamers.
Carthage
Victoria
Valetta ~
Rallaarat ..1748
1 arramatta 4771
Commander.
5013
4919
W. A. Wheler
G. F, Oates
R. F; Briscoe
E Ashdown
R. G. Murray
i,i i i iv, v,. juuri;
Oceana . .1630*1.’. S. Tomlin
June 30 July s ! July 9
. I July 14 July 19Ju1y23
And henceforth every alternate week,
Ui aS, ERVEI) CABINS ON MODERATE TERMS.
SALOON PASSENGERS MAY BREAK THEIR JOURNEY
a r ran gcm e ntefor SECOND SALOON PASSENGERS
im«r e ? .thoroughly re-organised, the accommodation
hp 10 ?5 ered 13 unsurpassed. Passage-money can ho paid
to wiP assaffes from England. Li heral concessions made
thrnnm ’ T Passengers, cargo, and parcels are hooked
will w i to Indl . a ’ 9 h,na ’ and Ja P an - Cargo and parcels
sain " ot b ® received after 3 p.m. on the day.previous to
Offices "Formation apply at the Company’s
mces > 247 tteorgo-street. A. MACLEA N Actiim A-'ent
J N BRIDGE & 00.,
?ULAR QUAY, SUSSEX STREET, A
< DAREIXO HARBOUR ,
lE,I ° L ® JOKERS,
■ acs > Tallow, Sheepskins, Kangaroo, Bear and
Opossum Skins, Ac.
CTIOHEEBS.
salesmeixt.
The latest French medical experiments in
tight-lacing has been carried out on female
monkeys—“ because,” naively say the surgeons,
“ they are like women.”
Writes “Spagnoletti —The Chinese Joss-
House, South Melbourne, is quite a palace. It is
stuck about with dragons, great and small, and
inside they worship two door-scrapers for gods.
One is a wooden horse, with its forefoot li ted
over a saucer of water, and a saucer of earth. The
Clunky priests have no objection to larrikins
handling the gods. Then the festival Roast Rig
is open to all, when the three-cornered red flag is
hying, with its two green pennants. Tom-toms
announce when the pork is on, and the pigs begin
to Ay. Pig is roasted over the grave of a Ching
in the cemetery—if he has left enough money.
Otherwise, it’s allee same Clistian man. Shove
cm three in a grave, as we have actually seen
paupers in the Melbourne Cemetery. The dead
pauper, you see, is healthy, and doesn’t infect the
sorb like the diseased rich man, who must there-
fore have eight feet deep to himself. Then all the
sms in his bones begin to crackle. They spread so
as almost to infect the poor corpses lying a very
long way off the marble tomb.
From a paper contributed to the late Con-
gress of “ The Australasian Association for the
Advancement of Science,” held in Melbourne
“ Terra Australis Incognita was first visited by a
Portuguese named Mon exes, in the year 1527.
In the year 1598 Frederick Houtman, a Dutchman,
who projected the Dutch East India Company,
bestowed his name upon the Abrolhos (W.A.).”
Now, both these claims have long since been
effectually disposed of ; as is now well known no
authenticated discovery of Australia took place
until the year 1600. Houtman’s Abrolhos were so
named by the captain of the “Leeuwin ” in 1022 ;
and F. H. himself never came within coo-ee of
them. However, as the Science Congress did not
know any better, it didn’t much matter.
arious have been the published rejiorts
as to how Millionaire Tyson made his first big
“ rise,” but the writer can vouch for the authen-
ticity of the following account The four brothers
Tyson squatted down, many years ago, on the
north side of the Lachlan River, and it being out-
side the limit of the country upon which the
Government then charged rent, there was no one
to say them nay. In those days, before the dis-
covery of gold, the brothers used to drive cattle
from their station on the Lachlan to Sydney, and
beasts would have to be fine “fats” to realize
something like £1 per head. Fat wethers were
worth about 2s. 6d. The Government then decided
to sell these runs by tender, and postal communi-
cation in those times being practically non-existent,
the first the Tysons heard of the matter was that
the late Mr. Edward Flood had become possessor
of their sqnattage. They then opened up negotia-
tions for the purchase of their holding from its
new owner, and it is said they had great difficulty
m obtaining the £250 which was asked for it.
When Bendigo broke out, the Tysons started on the
road to millionairedom. Two of them took cattle
over and started butchering, James being the
buyer and John taking and sending the meat round
the country in bullock and horse waggons, and it
is related that James would cross a river with
cattle when scarcely another man in Australia
would tackle it. After making a hatful of money
at the game, James took up a vast tract of country
oil the Warrego, and John purchased a station at
Deniliquin. When John died some years after he
left all he was worth to the rich brother James,
and that could not have been much under £100,000.’
And James has gone on increasing the pile ever
since.
Shipping.
TJNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF NEW
ZEALAND, Limited.
SAN FRANCISCO ROYAL MAIL SERVICE.
OVERLAND ROUTE TO ENGLAND VIA SAN
FRANCISCO AND NEW YORK,
Calling at
AUCKLAND and HONOLULU,
Avoiding alike the heat of the Red Sea and the cold
of Cape Horn.
Under Contract with the Postmasters-General of New
South Wales and New Zealand, the steamers of this line
are appointed to leave Sydney and Auckland for Honolulu
and San Francisco every fourth Wednesday, sailing as
under;—
Each steamer carries a duly qualified surgeon.
These steamers are fitted with Electric Light and with a
Refrigerating Chamber for ship provisions, insuring a
plentiful supply of ice throughout the voyage.
Passengers are booked to San Francisco or through to
European destinations'and have at San Francisco choice of
the unrivalled Atlantic Steamship Lines of the Ounard
Inman, White Star, and other companies.
All first-class passengers are allowed 3301 b. of baggage
to San Francisco and 2501 b. “Overland ” free of charge °
THROUGH FARE TO LIVERPOOL.
FIRST-CLASS £63 to £66.
Time-cards, railway maps, and gu de books, showing all
routes to any point in the United States, may be had on
application
For rates of passage and freight and all other informa-
:ion apply at the Company’s Offices, 15 Bridge-street.
FREDK. W. JACKSON, Manager,
Hotels.
Mr. and Mrs* Thomas Aschs
IjKG to inform their Friends and Patrons that,
in addition to other recent improvements at the
ROYAL HOTEL,
a first-class HYDRAULIC ELEVATOR has
been erected for the convenience of Visitors,
rendering it the most complete and comfortable
house in Sydney ; and with the personal and un-
ceasing attention of JMr. and Alls. A sen k m every
detail of management, they rely on the continued
patronage of their many old friends, whose kindly
recommendation of the ROYAL HOTEL to their
friends will be esteemed.
RAIN’S FAMILY Sc COMMERCIAL HOTEL/
PRINCES STREET,
(Opposite G.P.0.)
ID TJ LT IE ID I Isr 7 IST.Z.
ALEX. PALME It
Proprietor.
Medical
"N
N\
s
t
x
J
f
Xs J
Sv^
WV
S-6
'■^-A-k
Everywhere a network of sudorific ducts, veins,
and ]>ores, the skin constantly renews itself, and
not only with its ceaseless desquamation, but with
its natural functional action, eliminates all waste,
accumulation and disease. Hence, a skin without
biomisn means more than beauty; it means health.
Cuticura, the great skin cure, and Outicura
Soap, an oxquiste skin beautiticr, prepared from
it, externally, and Cuticuha Resolvent, the now
blood purifier, internally, cure every species of tor-
turing, disfiguring, itching, scaly and pimply
diseases of the skin, scalp and blood, with loss
of hair, from pimples to scrofula.
I have boon afflicted for a great many years with
had blood, which has caused mo to have sores on
my body. My hands wore in a solid sore for over
a year. I had tried almost everything I could hoar
of, hut had given up all hopes of ever being cured,
when I saw the advertisement of the Cuticuha
Remedies. I used one box of Cuticuha, one
bottle of Resolvent, and one cake of Soap, and
am now able to do ail my own work,
Mrs. FANNIE STEWART, Staunton, Ind.
Sold everywhere. Price, Cuticuha, SOc. ; Soap,
25c.; Resolvent, $l. Prepared by the Potter
Drug and Chemical Co , Boston, Mass.
«®-Scnd for “How to Cure Skin Diseases,” 64
pages, 50 illustrations, and 100 testimonials.
D
Skm scalp and hair preserved and beau- |
lliiC<: * b y the use of Cuticura Soap.
1 havo suffered all my life with skin diseases of
different kinds, and have never found permanent
relief, until, by the advice of a lady friend, I used
your valuable Cuticuba Remedies. I gave them
a thorough trial, using sis bottles of the Cuticuba
Resolvent, two boxes of Cuticuba, and seven
cakes of Cuticuba Soap, and the result was just
what I had been told it would be a complete cure
BELLE WADE, Richmond, Va.
Reference, GW. Latimer, Druggist, Richmond,Va.
Have just used your Cuticuba Remedies on
one of my girls, and found it to be just what it is
recommended to be. My daughter was all broken
out on her head and body, and the hair commenced
to come out. Now she is as smooth as ever she
was, and she has only used one box of Cuticuba,
one cake of Cuticuba Soap, and one bottle of
Cuticuba Resolvent. I doctored with quite a
number of doctors, but to no avail. lam willing
to make affidavit to the truth of the statement
GEORGE EAST, Macon, Mich.
For the last year I have had a species of itching,
scaly and pimply humors on my face to which I
havo applied a great many methods of treatment
without success, and which was speedily and en-
tirely cured by the Cuticuba Remedies
Mbs. ISAAC PHELPS, R avenna, O.
D
PLES, blackheads, red, rough, chapped and
oily skin prevented by Outicura Soap.
Address :
TOWNS & CO., SYDNEY, N.S.W
Companies.
The Krllish and Bfcw South Wales tuvestment
and Financial to.. Limited.
Incorporated under the Companies’ Act, 1874.
Capital, £250,000.
Sydney Office : 240 PITT STREET.
DISCOUNTED and Immediate Advances granted
Daily. Country communications promptly attended
to. The following Rates of Interest are allowed for Fixed
Deposits:—
3 Years
12 Months
C Months
3 Months
10 per cent.
,9 per cent.
8 per cent.
7 per cent.
With a Guaranteed Bonus on Renewals of Twelve Months
and over.
By order of the Board.
W. MCDONALD, Manager.
Citizens’ Life karaace Company,
LIMITED.
Capital <£200,000.
Head Office :
21 Castlereagh Sydney,
With Branches and Agencies throughout the Colonies.
IKTe’w Business :
,lun> w<? re issued 10,557 Policies.
ISS ” ” ”
r „ „ „ 57,32 a „
i hese figures show the wonderful progress of the
Company and the high esteem placed upon its
liberal dealings by the public.
CLAIMS PAID
Immediately on Proof of Death
JAMES P. GARVAN,I
WM. ALEX. SMITH, f
Managing Director.
Secretary.
SMOKE NOTHING
BUT
PIPES.
D
PIPES
THE BEST IN THE WORLD,
Wholesale Agents :
JULIUS GOLDSCHMIDT & CO.,
231 Clarence Street.
First Prize—MELBOURNE EXHIBITION.
Business Announcements.
MOW ACKNOWLEDGED
TH EBEST
IN THE MARKET
: : ' r
SOLD
EVERYWHERE
M.W.tC?
m
■j*
H> H. Leach
SUCCESSOR TO
s. MODINI, Gunmaker, informs his Customers
■ and the Public in general that he has the largest
assortment of Firearms in the colony. Qualities and prices
to defy competition. Guns by the following celebrated
gunmakers: —J. Purdey & Sons, Cn. Boswell, John Risky
and Co., Joseph Lang & Sons, Ch. Osborne & Co., Thomas
Bland & Son. A large assoHment of various othermakers
always on hand, viz., W. W. Greener, Scott, Webley
Hollis & Sons, Riley and Casiimorb. All goods will be
faithfully guaranteed at 602 George-street, Sydney.
Price list on application.
Messrs. MAUDE & CO.,
Florists and Nurserymen,
(Of the Royal Exotic Nursery, Pcakhurst,)
Have just Opened their
New Premises at 141 King Street, Sydney,
And are prepared to receive orders for CHOICE
PLANTS, FERNS and CUT FLOWERS, and to
undertake all kinds of
Floral Decorations at Keasonahle Prices
DON’T
WASTE
IT
Write
to
E. T. WIMBLE & CO.,
Advertising Experts,
360 to 373 George St. , Syd. Semi for Pamphlet
“ How to advertise and why P ” lltli Edition.
You Will most certainly save Money,
Time, and Anxiety by placing all your
Advertising in our
hands.


FAIR WHITE HANDS.
BRIGHT CLEAR COMPLEXION.
SOFT HEALTHFUL SKIN.
9
FOB
TOILET & NURSERY.
Specially Prepared for the delicate skin of Ladies and
others sensitive to the weather (winter or summer).
Roughness and Chapping prevented.
)••(
TESTIMONIALS :
Children and
Redness,
Mrs. LANGTRY.
“I have much pleasure in stating that I have
used your Soap for some time, and prefer it to any
other ‘” (Signed) LILLIE LANGTRY.
Miss MARY ANDERSON.
“ I have used it two years with the greatest
satisfaction, for I find it the very best.
(Signed) MARY ANDERSON.
Mdme. MARIE ROZE MAPLESON.
“ JTor preserving the complexion, keeping the
skin soft, free from redness and roughness, and
the hands in nice condition, it is the finest Soap
in the world." (SgMd j MARIE ROZE,
Mdmo. ADELINA PATTI.
“I have found it matchless for the hands and
complexion.”
(Signed) ADELINA PATTI.
Rev. H. WARD BEECHER.
“ If cleanliness is netct to godliness, soap must
be considered as a means of grace, and a clergy-
man who recommends moral things should be
willing to recommend soap. lam told that my
commendation of Pears’ Soap has opened for it
a large sale in the United States. I am willing
to stand by every word in favour of it that I ever
uttered. A man must be fastidious indeed who
is not satisfied with it.”
(Signed) HENRY WARD BEECHER.
Sir ERASMUS WILSON, F.R.S.
(Late President of the Royal College of Surgeons of
England.)
Writes in the Journal of Cutaneous Medicine :
“The use of a good soap is certainly calculated
to preserve the skin in health, to maintain its
complexion and tone,' and prevent ils falling into
wrinkles . . . PEARS is a name engraven on
the memory of the oldest inhabitant; and Pears’
Transparent Soap is an article of the nicest and
most careful manufacture, and one of the most
refreshing and agreeable of balms for the skin.”
ivp&r-srz
Mm
m
a
&
■r?
f i
*£
i
i &
y/JSoP£ii>
Mf
«
Ra
ii
iin
LiiiuimM^z^-\
The Pig Farmer at Home and Abroad.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
I. — At Home.
In the year 187—, there dawned on the society of
Edinburgh, the supposed capital of Scotland (but
it isn’t), a new sun, such a Phoebus as is depicted
with a round smiling face and golden locks, shed-
ding joviality wherever he could squeeze in a ray.
The late Duke of Athole was always called the
Hen-wife, just as a late Governor of one of the
Australias might so have been designated. Our
luminary was and is called the Pig-farmer in Scot-
land, and I am, in this tale, about to tell you how
the name was again offered to him in Australia.
George Borthwick, farmer, Cowmuirs, Clack-
mannanshire : that is how he signed his name
when writing to the North British Agricul-
turist on the subject of hogs, dogs and bogs. If
he did not know anything about them nobody did.
His swine and hounds are still famous. Cowmuirs
was formerly a morass at the lower end, but is
now a fertile plain. He does not write much to
the newspapers now, but his pigs and pups take
always first, second and “honourable mention”
when he shows three lots. The Highland and
Agricultural Society gave him a set of silver-plate
for his invention of the tile-less wedge-drains, and
no man in Scotland is more respected than
Geordie Borth’ick, J. (pronouuced Gye) P., and
member of the Board of Guardians, whatever that
may be.
Geordie was supposed to be a confirmed bachelor.
He could ride, shoot, curl, or even dance as well
as anyone, better than most; but the girls of the
country failed to catch him. Jolly and civil and
kind to all, if he loved, like the Baron of Mow-
bray, “he loved and he rode away.” Have you
read “Jem Bludso,” by Colonel Hay? Does he
not give us ?
All boats has their day on the Mississip
And her day come at last.
Poor Geordie’s right woman came loafing along at
the ball in Stirling on the evening that Mr.
Borthwick, of Cowmuirs, had been adjudged first
prize for all the pig classes, first and second for
greyhounds, first and secondDandieDinmonts, and
about ten other awards for fowls of all sorts from
turkeys to bantams. And G.B. constituted him-
self a committee of one and placed Mrs. Stewart
Miller, facile pinnceps, queen of his heart. She
still holds that position.
Now this woman was a widow, and not a verv
young one at that: not even a complete widow,
but of the variety grass. She was married right
enough, and her husband was buried —in the bush
of Australia. He is now buried on a sandhill in
the same bush, and the rabbits war with the
’guanas over his grave, at which the careless swiper
heaves his empty bottle after leaving the public-
house, of which more anon.
Mrs. Miller was and is fair to see, and I believe
that her mind is as beautiful as the fair face
which still smiles on Borthwick, for she now sits
in Cowmuirs’ like a well-tappit hen. Borthwick
is a man of action; no dilly-dallying with him.
Three dances before and one after supper, per-
mission to call in Edinburgh, many dances in the
best houses from Royal Terrace to Athole Cres-
cent, from Inverleith Row to Bruntsfield Links, a
proposal, and then the astounding answer : “Mr.
Borthwick, do you not know that I have a hus-
band ?” So she had; not much of a treasure,
either; an ill-conditioned drunkard, who, after
spending all his own money, had tried to snap hers,
and only failed because he was outwitted by
old Simon Meiklejohn, the W.S., which for the
uninitiated I translate “Writer to the Signet”
(the Signet has a power of correspondents). When
disgrace came and supplies ran short Stewart
Miller began to illuse his wife, once he struck her,
once he brought in a double-barrelled gun and
threatened to make an end of himself (after her).
Her good Scotch friends took her part and a
strictly legal separation was made, part of the
condition being that the bulk of Mrs. M.’s m< ney
should be invested in an Australian Land Syndi-
cate, and that Mr. Stewart Miller should be em-
ployed on one of the numerous properties of the
said company and paid for his services.
George Borthwick was cruelly hit by Mrs.
Miller’s announcement, but true to his love still
remained her friend, and out of her conversation
and that of his lawyer, old Meiklejohn, obtained
just as much information as I have given respect-
ing Mr. Stewart M., with the addition of his Aus-
tralian address. Shortly afterwards he bade a
tender farewell to his friends and even obtained
a photo, and stole a kiss from his impracticable
sweetheart. He told her that he meant to travel
for a year or two, that most men in his position
would have taken to the bottle, but that h« never
could get drunk like other men : whisky only
made him thoughtful, and had little exhilarating
or exasperating effect unless he drank a bottle or
two. and then he was just “ fou and happy.”
Shortly before this coal had been found on
Cowmuirs, and the property was very valuable,
and paid immense returns from the pits.
ll.— Abk@ad.
The Riverina Freehold, Leasehold and Stock
Mortgage Company is a big concern. We have
no need to mention any of its properties except
one, namely, Dunbar Station, on the Bunkum
Creek. The manager was Mr. Glenmutchkin ;
the overseer a young baron, My Lord Kenswha;
and the storekeeper, Mr. Stewart Miller, a middle-
aged gentleman of Scotch parentage, like all the
other authorities on the place. This last gentle-
man spent his pay on hard tack, the colonial name
for spirits, and was never sober at night, but did
his work fairly well in the office. He had been in
an insui'ance office in Scotland. Everyone knew
old Miller ; the larrikins laughed in his face when
he gave them a pannikin of flour and refused
them tobacco. The station people could
not sack him owing to his interest in the
company. In fact, he was an established
institution in the Riverina, when a new-chum
selected a little spare piece of ground on the creek
about a mile from the station. This land was
positively useless, except as a burial-ground for
the station people; but it ran down to the
Bunkum and up to a main road. It had not been
secured because old Glenmutchkin thought that
no one would covet it. The new selector set
about making improvements at once, the chief of
which were a good cottage, a four-stalled stable,
and a fine kennel, last, but not least, a public-
house near the road. Everything showed that
Mr. Borthwick had money, plenty of it. He
had a good horse or two, fine greyhounds, and
some terriers. In those days there were no
rabbits on the Bunkum, but plenty of kangaroos,
paddymelons, and ducks. I fancy Messrs. Glen-
mutchkin and Miller and Lord Kenswha thought
it cheek of a cocky-publican to call on them and
leave a card for each, but they saw that Cowmuirs
had been erased and Cambusbunkum written
on the cards. From this they inferred that
the new-chum was a cut above the neigh-
bouring Tips, Vickies, Tassies, and Bally-
mena Fardowners that had sliced up the land.
They returned his call and were treated to whisky
in the proportion of the cubes of one, two, and
three for the manager, lordling, and storekeeper
respectively. The manager took one glass, which
he called a gless, and pronounced the liquor
“ braw ”; Kenswha drank eight, stated that he
would not go home till morning, which was not
true, for he was already mounted and off ; Stewart
Miller, however, indulged in twenty-seven nob-
blers and slept the sleep of the unjust on the sofa.
The host drank and remained sober.
When asked why he had taken up that useless
portion of land, Borthwick used to say he was
going in for pig-farming, and thus at the Anti-
podes of Scotia he was again called the pig-farmer.
A manager was put into the pub., which was
called the “Jolly Miller,” with instructions to
give all travellers one glass, and free and unlimited
tick to Mr. Miller, the namesake of the sign.
The pig-breeding was not a success, nor was the
hotel; the former resulted in a very ugly sow
with a very ugly litter of 12 or 13 pigs, which
have long since escaped or been slaughtered ; and
the chief customers of the “ Jolly Miller ” were
the free swagmen arid Mr. Joseph Miller. This
gentleman always got the best whisky, i.e., the
strongest, and the barman shouted and insisted
on his taking a bottle home. He then called at
the cottage and never left it sober, being generally
driven to the station by Borthwick, and put to bed
with a bottle or two of old Clackmannan Moun-
tain Dew. Need I prolong or pad my story ? Six
months after the arrival of the genial cocky there
was an inquest at the “Jolly Miller,” near Dun-
bar station. Mr. Stewart Miller had been found
dead on the road, having been evidently dragged
at the stirrup by a galloping horse. Verdict;
“ Accidental Death.” He was buried on the sand-
hill and eulogised on a wooden slab, which showed
that he was a true Scottish gentleman, cut off in
his prime through the fault of a vicious horse. At
the bottom was printed :
His spirit has returned to him
Who gave its heavenly spark ;
Yet think not, sun, it shall be dim
When thou thyself art dark.
It is the word “ spirit ” that incites the exhausted
whaler to shy his exhausted bottle at the tomb.
lII.— At Home Again.
In 187 —, Mrs. Stewart Miller became Mrs.
George Borthwick, of Cowmuirs. They are
happy—both? .
SCOTTY THE WRINKLER.
An English paper has a miserable little
story about a cranky “ tire ” reporter, named
Fowler, to whom “Tummy” gave a cigar in
return for some information, and who got another
because he refused to smoke the first on the
ground that he “couldn’t bring himself to smoke
it, but would hand it down to his family as a
memento,” &c.
Bismarck's enemies have a queer fashion
of dying ; Emperor Frederick, Count Arnim,
Gambetta, Skobeloff. The old fellow has a gimlet
nose and swivel eye—one of the sort that sees
round a corner. He has the evil eye, and just now
it radiates glassily on his dear young friend,
William, whose funeral Bismarck will probably
excuse himself from attending, on the ground of
illness.
“A Nocturne.”
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The wind howls shrill, and black the sky ;
The clouds sepulchral frown and scowl,
The waves roar on the coast hard by—
The wind howls shrill —well, let it howl.
The lightnings flash athwart the gloom,
The thunders down the heavens crash,
The dread grave gapes with deathful doom
The lightnings flash—well, let ’em flash !
A maid sits weeping in the night,
While round her awesome spirits flit
To taunt, to torture and affright—
A maid sits weeping—let her sit!
A maid sits weeping ’mid the roar
Of waves and wind and thunders deep
Of surf and surge that lash the shore—
A maid site weeping—let her weep !
A bark drives on the fatal coast
From which came rie’er a ship alive,
And with the wind loud shriek the lost
A bark drives on—well, let it drive.
A bard moans o’er the maddened maid,
And o’er the dead her heart did own,
And o’er the loss thus caused to trade-
The bard moans —let the beggar moan.
FRED. J. BROOMFIELD.
Hevenin' and Mornin'.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
A bitter wail of black despair
Swept all the country o’er,
Afflicted creatures tore their hair
From furthest shore to shore ;
Humanity went on its way
With dazed and drooping head—
The hevenin’ rags had dared to say
The Slugger, he was dead.
In little knots along the street
Stood folks with' weeping eyes,
’Twas bad to see their bosoms beat,
With anguish fall and rise ;
Each had a paper in the hand,
Its tale of woe they read,
Until compelled to understand—
'the Slugger, he was dead.
But Austral saw another sight
When next the sun arose,
Eor then we knew J.L. was right —
Aye, right from crown to toes ;
The men who trembled in their shoes
Now danoed for joy instead—
The morning papers brought the news,
The Slugger wasn’t dead.
Yers.es by Chief of Salvation Army Staff,
Bramwell Booth :
Peaceful, joyful
la his peace;
Filled full, kept full
By his grease.
We suppose Booth meant grace. However, fro™
the general appearance of the S.A. clergy, the
printer concluded that both words meant the same
thing.


Notice to Artistic and Literary Contributors
Strictly Original matter contributed to The Bulletin
'till be paid for. The Editor will he glad to receive and
consider contributions as under :
Original humorous or political matter, illustrated or
otherwise. (Drawings must be n\adc in clean lines
of Indian ink on white paper or Gristol-board.)
• Unpublished anecdotes of living celebrities, or people
who ought to be celebrated.
Humorous poems (from eight to forty-eight lines pre-
ferred.
Serious poems, of similar or greater length, especially
those suitable for pictorial illustration.
Short Australian or other stories, up to, say, SPOP
words. About half that length, or even less, will
be preferred. A
An Contributions must he Written Legibly, on Qsk
Only of the paper, and:folded, not rolled. ’He
uctne and address of the writer must appear, in all
cuse.s, on the MS. itself, arid not merely on an accompany-
’mg letter or paper. The Proprietors do not hold them-
c ves responsible for Dejected Contributions; but, if
* ecom Panied by a stamped and addressed envelope or
m upper, every effort will be made to return them.
"be Editor does not undertake to enter into any
despondence respecting rejected Manuscripts.
Usa Batho’s Baking Powder.
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
D
Wato ies i,uu u-.ic.icrj' ui'c ii.vj jjuuu ~..vo are
worth having.
Send for Illustrated Price last. Post Free.
813 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
(Nearly opposite Railway Station).
Factories: Livkrpool and London, England.
£2 Lever, Two Years’Guaranteed.
£3 10s. Lever, “The Unequalled,” full cap.
£4 English Lever, “The Special,” compensated.
20/- The Uneifnalled Keyless Watch. 20/-
Country Residents and Visitors to Sydney call or send
o A. SAUNDERS, 813 George Street (nearly opposite
Railway Station), SYDNEY.
For Dyspepsia
use tiorskohd’s acid phosphate.
Dr. T. G. Yawduev, M. R.C.S., and L. K.C.P.
Handsworth, near Birmingham, says; “In cases
of atonic dyspepsia I consid. r it superior to any
of the dilute mineral acids of the Pharmacopoeia.’,
FOR LA GRIPPE (INFLUENZA)
And all colds and bronchial affections the best
remedy is Bosisto's Original Eucalyptus Oil. In-
ferior oils are bottled to resemble Bosisto’s.
Buyers should see that they get Bosisto’s oil, with
registered “Parrot ” brand on yellow label across
the cork. Accept no other, and avoid disappoint-
ment.
is m
I |
i: I
■o
%
/Uents ;
DELISSAs. PHILLIPS
3& J Barrack Street.
Use Batiio’s Baking Powder.
Use Batuo's Baking Powder.
Use Batuo’s Baking Powder.
The Squatter, Three Cornstalks, and
the Well.
(A Dirge of Sin and Sorrow, Sung hy Joe Swallow.)
There was a Squatter in the land
So runs the truthful tale I tell —
There also were three Cornstalks, and
There also was the Squatter’s Well.
Singing ( slowly) : “Sin and sorrar, sin and sor-rer,
sin and sor-r-r-rer.”
The Squatter he was full of pluck,
The Cornstalks they were full of sin,
The well it was half full of muck
That many rains had drifted in.
Singing [with increased feeling) : “Sin,” &o.
The Squatter hired the Cornstalks Three
To cleanse the well of mud and clay ;
And so they started willing-lee
At five-and-twenty bob a day.
Singing (apprehensively) : “Sin,”&c.
At five-and-twenty bob the lot —
That’s eight-and-four the day would bring
To each ; and so they thought they’d got
A rather soft and easy thing.
Singing (sadly) : “ Sin,” &c.
The Cornstalks cleaned the well within
A day or two, or thereabout—
And then they worked an awful sin—
A scheme to make the job last out.
Singing ( reproachfully) : “ Sin and sorrer,” &c.
For when the well was cleaned out quite
Of all its logs and muck and clay,
They tipped a drayload down at night
And worked to haul it up next day,
Singing ( dismally ) : “ Sin,” &o.
But first the eldest, christened Hodge,
He greased the dray-wheel axles, so
The super wouldn’t smell the dodge
And couldn’t let the Squatter know.
Singing ( hopelessly ) ; “Sin and sorrer,” &c.
The stuff they surfaced out each day
With some surprise the Squatter saw.
He never dreamt the sand and clay
Was three miles off the night before.
Singing ( mournfully ): “Sin and sorrer,” &c.
But he got something in his eye,
It wasn’t green, that’s very plain,
He said the well was rather dry,
And they could fill it up again.
Singing (mournfully and dismally): “Sin and
sorrer,” &e.
The Cornstalks went to work next day
In hope, of course, of extra tin—
The Squatter watched, and, sad to say,
The mullock wouldn’t all go in.
Singing (with great pathos) : “ Sin and sorrer,” &c.
And tho’ the Cornstalks twigged the ruse
Whereby the boss had done ’em brown,
They argued that the clay was loose,
And wanted time to settle down.
Singing (hopelessly) : “ Sin and sorrer,” &o.
The boss began to rave and tear,
And yelled with a most awful frown,
“ I will not settle up, I swear,
Till that there clay is settled down !” 4
Singing (hopefully) : “ Sin,” &c.
“ Before my cheques yer’ll poeket, boys,
Yer’ll put a mountain in a well ”
The Cornstalks didn’t make a noise,
They only murmured sadly ! ’
Singing (triumphantly) : “ Sin and sorrer.” &e.
Moral :
There is a moral to my rhyme—
A moral to the dirge I sing—
That when you do go in for crime
You mustn’t overdoo the thing.
Singing (more dismally than ever) : “ Sin and
sorrer, s-i-n and sor-r-r-r-rer !”
There once lived a well-known actor who
took to wife a charming 1 soubrette, and lived for
many years in domestic bliss ere any child blessed
their union. At length a boy-baby came to glad-
den the hearts of the pair, when a certain low-
comedy man, wishing to be facetious, asked, in
front of the company, whom the li ippy father
‘suspected,” the retort final came like a snap :
“ Not you by a long chalk—you’re too ugly.”
A Warrnambool correspondent writes to
the Melbourne press about an extraord nary old
wreck embedded in the beach at a point between
the wrecks of Hehty’s schooner and the Enter-
prise. Henry Kingsley, with some poetic license,
refers to this wreck in “ Geoffry Hamlyn, and it
was well known as far back as 153(5, sc that it is
believed to be at least 100 years old. No doubt it
will now be broken up by the antiquaries. The
wreck is an astonishing distance from high-tide
level and at an inexplicable elevation.
Alex. Sutherland, one of Melbourne’s re-
dundant men of culchaw, writes to the press chal-
lenging Parson-Professor Rentoul to bring one
single passage from the Bible in favour of closing
the Public Library on Sunday. But the badger
Wl ” n°t be drawn in that way. What they say
now is, Never mind the Bible, the down trodden
forking man (he of 250,000 strike-power) must be
protected in his Sawbath. The fact is they want
if-keep him in Ignorance which, by its death,
sms Superstition also.
An Irishman has received three months’
imprisonment for “winking at the pig” at Pal-
carragh fair in order to let pig-buyers know that
the owner was boycotted.
In his extreme old age Sims Reeves is
protesting against the cruelty of forcing vocalists
to accept an encore, and lie calls upon the musical
profession not to do more work than it contracts
for. The fact is that audience don’t encore thet
extinct tenor any more, so he would fain abolish
a custom which now hurts his vanity. Vocalists
are generally glad enough to sing the last verse
over again when it is wanted. The “ encore
nuisance ” is all on the side of people who repeat a
verse when it isn’t wanted.
The Fijian planters’ friend, Sir Arthur
Gordon, is again in trouble in his current pro-
Consulship at Ceylon. It’s a toss-up which hates
him most, the official class, the European civilians,
or the educated Cingalese. The lower-class native
might have a decent word to say for him, but then
the lower-class native can’t spare a moment from
his legitimate occupation of selling Brummagem-
made curios and cats’-eyes to the innocent P. & O.
and Orient “liner.” “Gordon,” wrote a native
journalist, recently, “hopes to get a peerage. The
Cingalese think he is entitled to one. He’s bad
enough P
From a letter quoted in the biography of
James Macdonell, a Scotch journalist, for many
years assistant-editor and on the
London Times and Daily Telegraph, we clip the
following pregnant sentence
Were I an American I should be too proud of my
country, and too conscious of the fact that the Republic
is a much more rational form of government than a
monarchy. . . . With what is called the personal
loyalty of the colonies I have no patience. Xjoyalty to
a great man like Lincoln, or Gladstone, or Bright, I can
understand ; loyalty to the interests and the Parliament
of a great nation like America or England I can also un-
derstand ; but what I cannot understand is loyalty to a
crowned fiction. I could as easily understand loyalty to
the figure-head of a ship.
Gladstone’s speech on the Pamell-TiMES
question is said to have been equal to any of his
Commons utterances. “ Moreover, ” says a Lon-
don writer—
The speech had the quality which observers of Mr.
Gladstone note in him as one of the products of his old
age— an added benignity and gentleness. The fierceness
of the old man’s middle-age is dying away. He mellows
perceptibly. Something of mental strength is, perhaps,
wanting ; but the added sweetness compensates for it.
He is now what he never was before —popular on both
sides of the House. They are all fond of him, and get
fonder of him as the sands of his life run lower and lower
down.
From all we can make out the Tories hate Glad-
stone like poison, and, not content with denounc-
ing him as a traitor and murderer, attribute to
him the sins of Sodom and Gomorrah. You can
hear this latter indictment framed every evening
in the smoking-room of any London Tory club.
“ Geordie ” Robertson, of Warrock, near
Casterton (Vic.), has gone where the fluctuations
of the wool-market cease from troubling and the
Ballarat stock-auctioneer giveth rest. He was
one of the old type of squatters that soon will
survive only in the realistic fiction of the About-
to-Arise Australian “School” —men that begin as
shepherds and end as millionaires. “Geordie”
once boiled a billy for a supercilious “super.” on
Merino Downs, and got heartily damned for his
pains. Twenty years afterwards, he had the cir-
cumstance recalled to mind as he noticed among
the half dozen sundowners who had strolled up to
his station for the customary pannikin of flour,
one evening, the features of the ex-super. “ What,
you here, L——said the old man, “ sorry to see
yon like this ! ” “Sorrow be d——d !’" was the
sundowner’s retort; “can you make tea any
better than you did 20 years ago, Robertson?”
“ Geordie's ” estate falls to his nephew, G. R.
Patterson, of Capanl, an ex-school-teacher, who is
a great man in those parts because he is a Shire
Councillor. And, bless you, a Shire Councillor
out West who can read and write something
beyond his name, is Somebody.
One of the Farjoon’s-brother type was
Dick Lee, the living skeleton, the thinnest man
alive, almost. Dick, dead years ago, was a uni-
versal genius on a newspaper, but never would
stick. It was reported that lie walked all the
way from Melbourne to Sydney to challenge the
champion porridge-eater of the universe. Indeed,
Dick thought nothing of the little stroll from
Sydney to Melbourne,, or vice versa. Onoa he got
a reporting job on the Bendigo Independent, and
next morning there was a column report of a po.iti-
cal meeting with exactly the opposite o - what every-
one had said, and the paper had to give a regular
mitrailleuse of an apology. A newspaper proprie-
tor we will call Sugars, proprietor of the Oowtown
Observer, did a smart thing by engaging Dick to
write a bitter leader on a lady whom we will call
Mrs. Bullfinch, who edited a paper in a neigh-
bouring town. Dick’s leader began: “When a
female baboon squats in a gutter and slings mud
at respectable journalists, it is time to protest.”
This duly appeared. Next day Mrs. Bullfinch’s
two brothers came over and horsewhipped Sugars,
but D ck was found at Azotus—as the Bible says.
It was he who wrote an imaginary letter by
W. G. Grace, abusing Australia, and this was
copied throughout the Australian press. Grace
publicly repudiated it. Employed to write a
slaughterous article on the English cricketers in
Melbourne, Dick wrote that they drank beer out
of a galvanized-tin bucket in the pavilion, and
gave other astounding samples of English manners
—swallowed by many readers.
Ladies’ Silver Watches, 35s. Daiims & Co., King-street
Arcade.
The Professional and Literary men of London
give their preference to Esteubuook’s “ Relief ”
Pen. It is a swift and easy writer, and preserves
the characteristics of the hand. Samples free at
all Stationers.
Writ- for plans £10 Building sites, Perth,
Western Australia. Intercolonial Investment
Company, Limited, 96 Bathurst street, Sydney.
Extract from N.S.W. stock-movement re-
port.
iNVERBLii, Saturday.
Nine hundred weaners, Goomoorah to Paradise,
Grahame, owner, in charge.
Toole is never tired of getting off puns
upon his name. He hadn’t been two hours on the
Melbourne stage before he took hold of a bonnet
and said that he supposed it belonged to a member
of his family, because there was a lot of tulle
about it. It must be about 22 years since he
played Wat Tyler, in a Gaiety burlesque, and
sent our ancestors into fits by announcing “ 1 will
never be corruption’s tool.” The gag has been
bobbing up serenely, in various farces, ever since,
and is idiotically Hinglish.
Here is a little book that ought to be in
all the Australian State Schools : Paul Bert’s
“ First Year of Scientific Knowledge.” It is
translated from the French by Madame Bert, a
Scotchwoman. The French Government has
placed half amillioncopiesintheschools, and itmay
safely be asserted that it is unrivalled as a Science
Primer. However, the fact that the book comes
from the hand of a Frenchman and an agnostic
will be fatal to its chances here. Hanglo-Saxon
sentiment must be deferred to.
Dear Bulletin, — Hike reading the Sydney
Morning Herald, it is so touchingly truthful at
times. I have just read how a gentleman living
at Campbell town (N.S.W.) sent two sheep as a
present to his sister in Edinburgh. N.B.—The
sister wrote back a grateful letter saying—“lt is
splendid mutton —I gave a great deal away, for it
,\yas far too much for us to keep, so I just gave my
friends a treat —even a minister and his wife got a
leg.” Isn’t this last sentence simply beautiful?
“Even a minister and his wife” getting a leg!
Perhaps from the next sheep the Oampbelltown
Scot sends his sistdr “ even the crossing-sweeper ”
may get a bit. — Bakblox.
At a session of the “Credentials” Com-
mittee at a Friendly Societies’ annual gathering in
an Australian city not a century ago, Bro. Jones
moved that Bro. Smith’s credentials be thrown
out, as Bro. S. was an uncertificated insolvent.
Bro. Brown rose to order, and pointed out that the
function of the committe was to ascertain whether
Bro. S. was legally entitled to represent his lodge,
not to enquire into Bro. S.’s financial position.
Bro. Robinson supported the point of order, and
Bro. Miggins, chairman, ruled Bro. Jones out in
a style that would have reflected credit on Coming
Speaker Melville. Bros. Brown, Robinson and
Miggins are all matriculants in the King-street
Academy who have yet to receive a certificate of
compliance with the Hact; which accounts for
their fraternal sympathy with Bro. Smith.
When David Buchanan contested Balmain
at the N.S.W. general election last year, the
polling-day was a Saturday, and as David had to
appear in a case before Bathurst Assize Court
on the Monday morning he did not wait for the
result of the polling but left for the West by the
morning train, arriving at Bathurst shortly after
five p.m. As he stepped on to the platform the
first news that greeted his ears was that “Saddler”
Paul had beaten F. B. Suttor by an odd 50 votes.
“Frank Suttor out!” ejaculated the veteran,
rough-speeched, as usual; “I always had ma
doots as to whether ye had mair fuies than
wise men here. Now, I know th’ fuies are
ahead !” “ Surely, Mr. Buchanan,” ventured to
remonstrate a mild-voiced Freetrader, “ men are
not necessarily fools,because they differ from you
and your party ? ’ Buchanan’s “ cocksureness ”
as certain in its' quality as Macaulay’s—re-
sponded with “ Dom ye, what else should they
be?” Later on, the same evening, he strolled
from the Royal to the telegraph office for parti-
culars of the, metropolitan elections, the returns
of which were just coming to hand. As the mes-
sages came through for the local press the
representatives quoted the figures to David and
another prominent legislator. When the Balmain
return arrived tlie newspaper-man who got it first
noted that Buchanan was amongst the slain, and
was rather concerned at having to communicate
the unwelcome intelligence. With unerring
shrewdness, the old 'Brian read his hesitation, and
exclaimed : “ That’s from Balmain ? I’m oot,
then?” “ Yes,” replied the pressman. There
was a momentary pause in the buzz of conver-
sation that 'filled the outer office, and the silence
was not broken except by the “click, click’' of
the instruments, till David spoke again.
“ WeG,” he said, in a voice in which there
was just the least shako of emotional tremor,
‘ I suppose I’ve had ma last fling at Harry
Burkes ! ” As the returns flowed in the
veteran eagerly followed the fluctuations in
the totalling Agues, and as each successive
point was scored by a ProteJionist, ho would
draw attention to it, once remarking, “ I’m .oot,
buc that disua matter. I set the ball a-rolling
which has put those men in. If I had na’ fought,
an’ a weary battle it was, th’ party would na have
had dozens of men in th’ Hoose and thoosands of
voters in th’country. It doesn’t matter aboot one
man, if th’ cause grows there.”
DISCRIMINATING SCISSORS.
Who Cares for Nothing.*
He who cares for nothing alone is free
(Sit down, good fellow, and drink with me);
With a careless heart and a merry eye
He will laugh at the world as the world goes by ;
He laughs at power, wealth, and fame,
He laughs at virtue, he laughs at shame,
He laughs at hope, and he laughs at fear,
And at memory’s dead leaves, crisp and sere.
Hu laughs at the future, cold and dim :
Neither earth nor heaven is dear to him ;
Oh, that is the comrade fit for me,
He cares for nothing, his soul is free;
Sit down, good fellows, my heart is thine,
And quaff with me the red, red wine ;
For I heed not custom, creed, nor law,
I care for nothing I ever saw.
In every city my cup I quaff,
And over my liquor I riot and laugh ;
I laugh like the cruel and turbulent wave,
I laugh at the Church and I laugh at the Grave;
I laugh at joy, and right well I know
That I merrily, merrily laugh at woe;
I terribly laugh, with an oath and a sneer,
When I think that the hour of death is near.
For I know that Death is a guest divine,
Who will drink my blood as I drink this wine ;
Oh, he cares for nothing, a king is he —■
Cope, old fellow, and drink with me;
With you I will drink to the solemn past,
Though the oup that I drain should be my last;
I will drink to the phantoms of Love and Truth,
To ruined manhood and wasted youth.
I will drink to the woman that wrought my woe,
In the “ diamond morning ” of long ago ;
To her heavenly face in sweet repose,
To the lily’s snow and the blood of rose ;
To the splendour caught from Southern skies
That shone in the depths of her glorious eyes;
Her large eyes, wild with the fire of the South,
And the dewy wine of her warm red mouth.
I will drink to the thought of a better time ;
To Innocence—gone like a death-bell chime ;
I will drink to the shadow of coming doom,
To the phantoms that wait in my lonely tomb.
I will drink to my Soul in its terrible mood,
Dimly and vaguely understood ;
And lastly I drink to the Monarch of Sin,
Who has conquered that fortress and reigns within.
My sight is fading, it dies away ;
I cannot tell it night or day.
My heart is burnt and blackened with pain,
And a horrible darkness crushes my brain.
I cannot see you—the end is nigh—
But we’ll drink together before I die ;
Through awful changes I plunge and fall,
Your hand, good fellow ; I die, that’s all !
ANON.
* Can anyone tell The Bulletin the name of the author
of the above.
The Conquered.
I sing the Hymn of the Conquered, who fell in the
battle of life —
The hymn of the wounded, the beaten, who died
overwhelmed in the strife ;
Not the jubilant song of the victors, for whom the
resounding acclaim
Of nations was lifted in chorus, whose brows wore
the chaplet of fame—
But the hymn of the low and the humble, the
weary, the broken in heart,
Who strove and who failed, acting bravely a
silent and desperate part;
Whose youth bore no flower on its branches,
whose hopes burned in ashes away,
From whose hands slipped the prize they had
grasped at; who stood at the dying of dray
With the work of their life all around them, un-
pitied, unheeded, alone,
With death sweeping down o’er their failure, and
all but their faith overthrown.
While the voice of the world shouts its chorus, its
paean for those who have won—
While the trumpet is sounding triumphant; and,
high to the breeze and the sun
Gay banners are waving, hands clapping, and
hurrying feet
Thronging after the laurel-crowned victors—l
-stand on the field of defeat
In the shadow, ’mongst those who are fallen, and
wounded, and dying—and there
Chant a requiem low, place my hand on their
pain-knotted brows, breathe a prayer,
Hold the hand that is helpless, and whisper,
“They only the victory win,
Who have fought the good fight and have van-
quished the demon that tempts us within ;
Who have held to their faith unseduced by the
prize that the world holds on high ;
Who have dared for a high cause to suffer, resist,
fight - if need be, to die.”
Speak, History ! Who are life’s victors ? Unroll
thy long annals and say—
Are they those whom the world calls the victors,
who won the success of the day?
The Martyrs or Nero ? The Spartans who fell at
Thermopylae’s tryst
Or the Persians and Xerxes ? His judges or
Socrates ? Pilate or Christ ?
W. W. STORY.
Ladies’ Silver Watches, 35s. Daiims & Co., King-street
Arcade.
Building Sites, City of Perth, W.A. Plans
Intercolonial Investment Co., Limited, 96 Bathurst-
street, Sydney.
Old fashioned Jewellery modernised to perfection. De-
signs free. D.ui.ms and Co,, King-street Arcade.
Bona-Fide announcement. Highest cash price
given for all kinds of gent’s left off clothing.
Dress-suits for sale or hire. Letters promptly
attended to by CJU1TTENTON BROS., Ill
Russell street. MELBOURNE. {Neiv number,
in.)
A BOON TO HUMANITY.
Tia food for young and food for old,
It gives new life and vital power,
There's nothing in the market sold
Like Pk.mell’s patent Snow-white Flour.
Photography. —Charlernont and Co. (vice-regal
photographers), in the Royal Arcade, beg to an-
nounce that they have now reduced the price of
their Cabinet Photographs to 15s. per doz.
any style —bust, vignette or three-quarter figure.
Messrs. Oharlemont feel assured that this reduc-
tion in price will meet the many who refrained
from sitting in their studio, solely on account of
the price hitherto being higher than they might
care to pay. (Irosvenor Galleries, Royal Arcade.


a
fgag
ABSOLUTELY
PURE,
THEREFORE THE BEST.
si
m.
m
//
Mi
m?.
m 3.
ys>
m
W/i
m
m
y//".
;
%
m/A
m
&
m
Wfy
U
ii
f
?y
#
Coco^
i
■•v
\
f I ft''
%0'
How Hayes Paid the Hint,
AS TRUE AS DEATH.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
London, April 13.—The tenants of Mr. A. H. Smith-
Carry, who were evicted from his estate in Tipperary,
have built a new town in the vicinity. The new settle-
ment was opened yesterday with great ceremony by
Michael Davitt, William O’Brien, and other members of
of the Irish party. The old town of Tipperary is almost
deserted. — Cablegram.
IP. cto i' Tanner, the well-known small-
swordsman and Parncllite member for Cork
County, is a national martyr. A medical man
himself, and son of a noted surgeon, who was con-
sidered the handiest man wibli the knife in the
South of Ireland in my day, his mission seems to
be to teach political rather than medical juris-
prudence. He seems consumed with a desire to
smash Arthur Hugh Smith-Barry, a landed
leviathan with colossal properties in Cork and Tip-
perary. Twice or thrice, if not oftener, has Bal-
four locked him up for inciting tenants to stand on
their'hind-legs, but still the irrepressible little
doctor bobs up serenely, and calls upon the Tip-
perary boys to “ strike one more blow for the
good ould cause and the good ould counthry.”
Tanner’s latest move against coercion is worthy
of a Roman of the days of the republic. Smith-
Barry is the lord paramount of the fee-simple of
the busy town of Tipperary, and much of the fine
butter and bacon-producing country adjacent.
Failing to induce the bowelless landocrat to meet
his tenantry in the matter of rent-adjustment, the
Doctor conceived the brilliant idea of depopu-
lating the old town and building a new Tipperary
close to Limerick Junction, some three miles off,
on the Great S. and W. line of railway. As if by
magic some hundreds of carpenters, bricklayers
and stonemasons were employed in building the
new town, which, as will have been seen by the
cablegram at the head of this column, was lately
formally opened with great rejoicings. Tannerian
Tipperary must, by means of its position, leave the
old town completely out of the running as a place
of business.
* * *
This recalls to the writer a grim episode
of the early sixties which happened in that same
town of Tipperary; the present Arthur Hugh
Smith-Barry being then a boy. One day the
tenants were all in town to pay their rents to the
agent, S. B. Braddell, who was looked upon as
“ a very hard man.” It was a pouring wet day,
and the whisky-bottle was freely circulated among
the frieze-coated peasantry. The agent sat at a
table in a room in Dobbyn’s Hotel in the main
street of the town, and the tenants were admitted,
one by one, by a member of the Royal Irish Con-
stabulary, who kept the door. Inside, the In-
spector of Police sat at the table with Mr. Brad-
dell, and several muscular members of the R. 1.0.
were hanging round the hotel. Presently is
ushered into the room one Paddy Hayes, a
powerful, black-looking man of middle age, said to
be the strongest man of his day in a barony which
turns out (on a diet of black bread and potatoes)
perhaps the biggest and heaviest race of white
men now to be found on the globe. Paddy
approached the table in a very humble manner—
“ Homin’, your honor.”
“Good morning, Hayes, have you got the rent
in full?” .
“No, your honor, I’m tin pounds short, and if
your honor —■ —. ”
“Now, Hayes, haven’t you had fair warning;
I notice, too, you have sent an application for
reduction from 455. to 355. per acre. -Well, it
simply can’t and shan’t be done, clearly under-
stand that. And now you had better procure
those ten pounds or you and your people will find
yourselves on the roadside before many days are
over your head.”
“I will, is it, your honor? well, God is good,
who knows ? Won’t you take this ?” (holding out
a bundle of notes and gold in his left hand ; the
right being inside the caubeen he was gently
twirling in front of him).
“ I have told you it cannot be received, replied
the agent angrily.
“ Wance more, your honor, will you take this;
“No, I say—leave the room, fellow.”
“ Well, thin, your honor, if you won’t, will you
take that ? ” and the right hand, with a pistol in
it, shoots out from under the caubeen—there is a
report —and the agent falls dead, shot through the
chest.
With a bound Hayes is at the door. The police-
man on guard outside is knocked over like a baby
—the entire force of the town used to have their
hands full when they undertook the task of bring-
ing “ Patsy ” to the lockup when he got too full of
Dunville on St. Patrick’s Day or any other great
occasion—he then burst through a glass-door and
was in the street like a flash of lightning ; and,
jumping on the Inspector’s horse, which stood tied
to a post at the kerb, he rode away into the rain
and the future, and Ireland and the police knew
him nevermore. Rumour said that he had been
seen in Clonmel, in Waterford —that he had
drowned himself in a pond near his own house,
but all search proved fruitless.
* * *
Years after, when I, who as a boy had
known him, had become a wanderer myself, I was
on the Shotover Diggings, near Lake Wakatipu,
N.Z., where, one miserable wet day, in a crowded
bar-parlour, my attention was fascinated by a man
I thought I knew. He was old and grizzled, cer-
tainly, bub the powerful frame was there still, and
the shifty, dangerous eye. I looked at him closely
for a long time, and then ventured upon a foolish
thing. Seating myself near the old man, I made
some remark on the continued wet weather, and
added, quietly: “This is a wretched day;
somehow it reminds me of the day Paddy Hayes
shot Braddell in Tipperary in ’65.” The start the
man gave absolutely scared me. His pipe fell
from his mouth and was shattered on the floor.
He gave me one look and then hissed, rather than
spoke, in a husky whisper: “ Come outside until I
see who you are.” I followed him, and he soon
satisfied himself as to my identity and how much
I knew about him; after which, seizing my two
wrists in a grip which doubled me up with pain,
he gave me “ a little caution.” I may say that I
took that caution to heart, and that at the risk of
being charged as an accessory to the defeat of jus-
tice, I never “blew” on Mr. Paddy Hayes, who
for many years back has been sleeping, with the
blood of Braddell on his soul, on the hillside
graveyard bv the shore of Lake Wakatipu as
soundly, for all I know to the contrary, as if he
had never paid Smith Barry’s agent the rint in
lead instead of pounds sterling.
F D.
Told by a Woman Leper.
THE STRANGE CONFESSION HEARD BY A
VISITOR IN MOLOKAI.
The difficulties in the way of the seeker after in-
formation at Molokai are numerous and great, but
I finally managed to overcome them, and induced
a number of the white lepers to talk about them-
selves. One of these is a woman nearly 50 years
old. Though she has been at the settlement a
number of years, she is almost entirely free from
any visible taint of the dread disease. Her face is
without blemish, and she would be even handsome
if one could forget while one looks upon her that
she is a leper. Moreover, she is a highly intelligent
woman, and it must be believed from her own
story that she was not many years ago_ a society
lady of influence and popularity in a city not a
great distance from San Francisco.
“ You must not mention my name,” said she,
when she finally yielded to persuasion and con-
sented to tell her story, “for, though I have a
husband and several children, to say nothing of a
large circle of friends, in the United btates, there
is only one person, if, indeed, she be still alive,
who knows anything of my condition or where-
abouts.
“ I propose to talk to you frankly, continued
the unfortunate woman. “ I have sinned—
sinned grievously, and sometimes I think this is
my punishment. Be that as it may, lam here,
and must remain for life. I care not how soon
the end comes ; the sooner the better—but to my
story. . . .
“ My father was a Methodist minister Con-
necticut town. I was educated at an Pastern
college. When I was nearly 20 I accompanied
i\iy parents on a visit to Washington, D.C. It
was there I met my husband, or, to be more ac-
curate, the gentleman who was to be my husband
a few months later. He was a New Yorker, but
had been to California, where he then had valuable
mining and landed interests. Within a year from
the time we met we were man and wife, and
settled down in one of the cosiest little homes in
all the West. The town in which we lived grew
rapidly into a city of importance. My husband
became a very wealthy man.
“ Four sons and two .daughters were born to
us, and we were the happiest family in the world.
I went a great deal into society. My husband
hated the social world, but that did not deter me.
I went just the same: and I led—l ruled the
highest circles. . ,
“It is now fifteen years since a lady, a friend
of mine, induced me to accompany her on a visit
to some of her acquaintances at Honolulu. At
that time a trip across the ocean was not what it
is now, but, nothing daunted, we started on the
journey, and in the course of time reached our des-
tination. At Honolulu I met a man and I sinned,
as I have said. It was the first crime of my life.
The shame of it, the horror of it, seized upon me,
and, forcing my friend to cut short her visit, we
hurried away across the sea again.
“My husband and my children met me with
open arms and loving kisses. But I skulked among
them, a wretched traitress to every trust, my load
of shame heavy on my heart. I shunned society
and held my polluted self aloof from all my
friends. My life was a prolonged misery, and I
longed for death. I don’t know why I didn’t in
that sore trial, cut the thread of life and set free
my sin-laden soul.
“Throughout all this I never blamed anyone
but myself—never until years after my return
home, when I made a discovery. Oh, that was
worse than the bitterest misery; it was utter
damnation ! I fled from home in a frenzy of ex-
citement and rage which was utterly new to me.
The friend whom I had accompanied across the
sea years before now bore me company across the
same watery waste. But it was not a trip for
pleasure this time. A thirst for vengeance filled
my heart. It was a mission of murder.
“My real object was not confided to my com-
panion until we were far out at sea. I then told
her all. At first she sought to dissuade me from
my purpose, but failing in this she soon fell in
with my design (or seemed to, at least. Some-
times I think she deceived me).
“On the clay, nay the hour, of our arrival ax
Honolulu I veiled my face, caught up a pistol,
hailed a passing hackman, and was driven straight
to the business house of the man who had wrecked
my life, and wilfully chained me to a living,
loathsome death. I fairly gloated over the pros-
pect of a quick revenge.
“ I sprang from the cab at the door, and, hurry-
ing into the house, called aloud for my victim.
The place was changed. The faces were new.
A man came running after me, asking who it was
I wanted. I breathed the cursed name. At its
mention the man seemed thunderstruck. ‘ Him! ’
he cried ; ‘why, he fled the country long
escape Molokai. He was last heard of in Italy. ’
“They told me that night at the hotel that I
had swooned and remained unconscious for hours.
All the next day I lay in bed, half oblivious of
all about me. When night came my scattered
senses returned, and, taking advantage of a short
absence of my friend, I hastily dressed myself and
hurried from the hotel. I left a note for my
friend, saying— .
“To-morrow I shall beat Molokai. I ate has
damned me, and there is no escape from the harsh
decree. I must suffer for my sin. Invent any
story which seems plausible. Say that I have
gone to Japan—anywhere, but let no living soul
know what has been the fate of yours trust-
ingly. ~T
“ And so,” concluded the poor woman, I sup-
pose I am the only inmate of this terrible place
who did not have to be dragged here by the
authorities. I came of my own will. Have I
regretted it? Book around you and you have my
answer.” — Philadelphia Press.
In the Cosgrove dynamiting case at Sydney
the Chief Justice gave Judge Windeyer a nasty
slap in the face when, at 9.45 p.m., he said he
would not sum up that night, as it would be unfair
to the prisoner and the jury ! And in the Mount
Rennie case? Lejour viendra.
The defeated plaintiff in a weighty case ;!
the Bowen (Q.) assizes was walkingout next morning
thinking matters over, when he discovered his old
enemy in a quiet back street, leaning over a fence
watching the gambols of some juvenile porkers.
The posture, the pigs, the whole situation in fact,
filled his soul with the full force of those eloquent
Baconian periods in justification of the a posteriori
form of argument. The temptation was too much
for human weakness, and with his right foot he
gave the late defendant a shock that prostrated
him facially. Then the adversaries glared at each
other and decided to appeal from the decision of
the Court to arms. This time the plaintiff pre-
vailed —and the decision of the Court below was
reversed.


C3-:rosa,t Medical Reform!
i-IT Consult (FREE) HERR RAJ3SMUSSEN, the Celebrated Danish Herbalist,
Expert Specialist in all Private Complaints, Barrenness and Nervous Diseases.
Only Herbalist in Australia
That has received “Gold Medal” for Great Cures Performed, and is Honourably Mentioned in the “Centennial History of New South Wales ’
for Great Herbal Discoveries ; and who can prove that he has CURED OVER 20,000 PATIENTS.
Sole Proprietor and Discoverer of the Celebrated
VITALITY PILLS, Reglsterecl,
Which have been the means of Curing so many Thousands of Sufferers from Nervous Debility, Lost Vitality, Errors, Weakness, Despondency,
Impure Blood. 225. 6d. per Course ; Smaller Box, ss. 6d.
s
*
DENMARK
u\i\
%
4
%
<2
w
I
%
%
R
t
S
f
0
r
s
s
is.
10
I s
V
i
A
L
i
T
V
D
%
✓
pj#
# s#
#
&
w*
D
ITALIIY
Hestbres
A Guaranteed Cure
for
Nervous Debility and
Lost Vitality.
225. 6d. per Course.
Smaller Box ss. 6d.
Q-enuine “Testiixionials.
To HERR RASSMUSSEN.—Dear Sir,—This is to certify that you
cured me of a very serious blood disease, after many doctors had
failed.-JOHN REYNOLDS, Chappel-street, Leichhardt, Sydney.
To HERR RASSMUSSEN, the celebrated Danish Herbalist.-Dear
Benefactor, —I have much pleasure to inform the public that you
cured my wife of an internal complaint of a very serious nature, after
all the doctors had given her up.—ARCHIBALD MACFARLANE
Eden Cottage, Barney-street, Armidale.
To HERR RASSMUSSEN, Specialist in Nervous Diseases. Dear
Sir, —I hereby thank you for the great cure you performed on me for
a very complicated nervous affection, and I shall always recommend
you to sufferers from Nervous Debility.—PHlLLlP STEAD,' 54 Parra-
matta-road, Annandale, Sydney.
To HERR RASSMUSSEN, Danish Herbalist.—Dear Sir and Bene-
factor,—lt gives me great pleasure to testify to your wonderful skill
in the treatment of Disease. You cured me of a terrible complaint
after the doctors gave me up, and although it is four years since, I am
as well as ever, I shall recommend you to all.—Yours, gratefully, A.
RAMSDEN, Great Western Coffee Palace, Castlereagh-street, Sydney.
To HERR RASSMUSSEN, Specialist in Nervous Diseases.—Dear
Sir, —I hereby certify that I have been under your skilful treatment
for a very obstinate case of nervous debility, and that you cured me
with one course of your Vitality Pills"—I). M‘NEILL, Hornsby
Junction, N.S.W.
m
of Press.
It is a well-known fact that HERR. RASSMUSSEN, the Celebrated
Danish Herbalist, has performed many great cures during the past few
years, as his numerous testimonials will prove.—Sydney Bulletin.
HERB RASSMUSSEN. —We have been shown some excellent Testi-
monials of the great cures performed by Herr Rassmussen, the cele-
brated Danish Herbalist. —Australian Star.
HERR RASSMUSSEN has now been established in the colonies
for 10 years.— Sunday Times, April 28, 1888.
HERR RASSMUSSEN has become a celebrity in the curing of all
diseases of the nervous system. His name has become a wonder
throughout the Southern Hemisphere. He was presented with a Gold
Medal for some of his miraculous cures.— Balmain Leader, May 12,1888.
HERB RASSMUSSEN. —The remarkable cures which he has effected
are pretty generally known.—Balmain Observer, April 28, 1888.
We are perpetually receiving letters from HERR RASSMUSSEN’S
cured patients requesting us to make known to the public the wonder-
ful medical skill this remarkable man possesses, and he has just been
presented with a Gold Medal from several of his cured patients.
—Sydney Weekly News, May 26, 1887.
Herr Rassmussen’s Herbal Remedies. (REGISTERED.)
DENMARK VITALITY PlLLS.—Guaranteed to cure Nervous Debility, Lost Vitality, Errors of Youth and Despondency. Price, 225. 6d. per full course ; small box, ss. 6d.
DENMARK FEMALE RESTORER PlLLS.—Guaranteed to cure all complaints peculiar to Females, Irregularities, and eradicates complaints which cause barrenness.
Price, 225. 6d. per course ; small box, ss. 6d.
LOCK CURE PlLLS.—Guaranteed to Cure all diseases of the blood, discharges, sores, and strictures. Price, 225. 6d. per course ; small box, ss. 6d.
CONSULTATION AND ADVICE FREE.
All the above remedies are made of PURE HERBS, and are forwarded unobserved. A valuable treatise on Nervous Debility, Private Complaints, and Barrenness, sent
free, on receipt of Id stamped addressed envelope. Consultation personally or by post, free. Patients are examined with the aid of the Microscope.
Address • - Herr. KASSMUSSEN the Danish Herbalist,
Corner <Ss PadsiiiigtoM., SydLney.
TRAMS —Take Paddington Tram to Paddington Tram Waiting-room.
mm
s.
%
DENMARK
</iw\
%
%
%
%
\
%
%
$
%
4
%
%
mk
a
E
s
I
0
R
s
s
L
I I
V
i
T
k
I
i
1
if
Ml#
# tH ‘
i^ 1
ii #
WSl#)
#
#
(0
D
D
Restores'
A Guaranteed Cure
W
Nervous Dkiulitv and
Lost Vitality.
225. Ud. per Course.
Smaller Box ss. Gd.
Book of iKTsvfc-ojrei..
wm
• V'
m
\« •
&
Book of JST tx'fctiiro.
BOOK OF NATURE and Illustrated Matri-
monial Guide.— A full and explicit explanation
of the structure and uses of the organs of life and genera-
tion in man and woman, intended especially for the
married, or those intending to marry, and who conscien-
tiously and honestly desire to inform themselves upon the
intent and nature of marriage and its duties, to which is
added a coipplete MEDICAL TREATISE upon all diseases
of the generative organs, whether resulting from infection
or sexual excesses and abuse, with much other valuable
and highly important information, illustrated with more
than fifty engravings, by M. Lafayette Byrn, M.D. ; price
3/0, post 4/-. The Fruits of Philosophy or Private Com-
panion for Married People, post 1/2. Mrs. Besaut's Law of
Population, 1/-, post 1/2. Wonderful Song Book, extra
large, 1/6. Aristotle, complete, 3/6, post 4/-. Maria Monk,
1 0 post 1/9. New complete Fortune Teller, 2s. “The
Matron’s Manual or Midwifery,” the book every married
woman needs ; price 7/-, posted 7/6. “The Male Genera-
tive Organs,” their use and abuse, with many illustrations
and coloured plates; price 7/-, posted 7/6. The arts of
Boxing, Swimming and Gymnastics made easy, enabling
anyone to become an expert boxer or athlete, illustrated
with fifty engravings ; pr oe 1/-. “ Marriage as it was, as
it is, and as it should be,” by Mrs. Besant; 1/-, posted 1/2.
Dr. Foote’s Plain Home Talk, new edition, over 200 illu-
strations; 7/6, post free. “The Labour Movement in
America,” by Aveling, post free 1/6. Matrimony, or
Phrenology and Physiology applied to the selection of
Congenial Companions for Life, 6d. The Elements of
Social Science ; 3/6, posted 4/-. Nigger Songs, 6d. Henry
L forge’s Works all at 1/-, posted 1/4. Works of Ingersoll,
Paine, Bradlaugh, Besant, Foote. Send for catalogue.
STIR EGBERT ZE3IE.A-IR-,
Radical Book Stores,
16; g PARK STREET. SYDNEY.
Business Announcements.
89
HIGHLY MU I RITJVh
MAY Hk UH I AINtU IN LAbtLLtU 1 INS OH HACKFTS THROUGHOUT THE COLONY.
C( )MM KIICIA L TRAVELLERS, TOURISTS, &o.
o
ROYAL
HOTEL,
The leading resort for
L I T H G O W,
and Tourists.
The Largest Sample Booms on the Western Line. Horses and Buggies for Hire.
Nothin '/ hut the Bed Brands of spirits sold over the bar.
Hugh. Wallace, Proprietor. Late of Wallerawang.
HEALTH for the MILLION !
WATSON’S
Mild, Aperient, Anti’oilious
Pills, purely vegetable
in their composition,
are particularly recommended to either sex, where a
gentle, but effective aperient is required. These Pills
are invaluable for all complaints of the Stomach and
Liver, speedily removing sick headache, biliousness,
indigestion, etc., and cleansing the
blood of all impurities. To Ladles
these pills will be found invaluable.
One trial is sufficient to prove their vast superiority
over all others. Sold by all Chemists and Storekeepers.
Price Is. per box. Prepared solely by John Watson,
Chemist, George Street, Sydney.
PILLS
—THE—
EJlectro-Magnetic
Massage
For the cure of —
Rheumatism Lumbago, Sciatica, Debility,
Gouty and Neuralgic A erections,
Muscular and Nervous Disorders
All Cases under Medical Supervision. Ladies
attended by specially-trained Nurses.
94 * DARLING HURST * ROAD,
SYDNEY.
Attendance : 9 to 1 a.m. ; 7 to 10 p.m.
Process Protected by Letters Patent.
Read ! Read ! !
“THE BULLETIN’S ”
History of Botany Bay,
By Arthur Gay 11.
Profusely Illustrated by The Bulletin’s well-
known Artists,
L. HOPKINS and PHIL MAY.
Price - One Shilling
Per post, Is. 3d.
THE COLONIAL MUTUAL LIFE ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED.
131
! ANCHES THROUGHOUT THE COLONIES AND THE UNITED KINGDOM.
POLICIES issued under the Ordinary, Modifle -I routine and JC5= o Diviclencl Systems.
TMEI SYDNEY CATERING COMPANY, LTD.,
(Late Gunsler’s Cafe)
175 Pitt Street, Sydney
WISH, tiieir former Patrons and the Public Generally to know that their Saloons have been Entirely Reorganised, and shall be glad if they will give
their new cusine a trial. JAMES 0- MARQUAND, Manager-


Business Announcements.
TURPIN & BRIAN,
Wholesale ami Family Grocers,
616 George Street, Sydney,
ARE
GENIES IMOVYKTGr
To those Spacious Premises formerly occupied
by R. S. TTGHE, Wholesale Grocer,
623 GEOBGE STBEET
SYDNEY.
look out for future issues.
NOTE THE ADDRESS:
623-George Street—623
Brickfield Hill, SYDNEY.
(Two Doors from Lawler’s.)
-THE-
Fresh Food & Ice Co.,
LIMITED,
harbour street,
SYDNEY,
Are evidently determined to go ahead They are
now supplying Customers who take a Quart of
Milk and Over per Day at
THREEPENCE PER QUART!
This appears very wonderful, but it is
quite true.
Weekly A.ccounts.
A. BOWMAN’S
LONDON MADE
Porpoise Hide Boots
Are Reduced from 30s. to 21s.
249 PITT ST., SYDNEY, Near Tattersall's.
Porpoise Hide Wears Twice as Long
as any other Leather.
They are noted all oyer London,
Birmingham and Liverpool.
T. onclon Jb "aslxiona,
AND
Fresh Goods Every Fortnight.
Trade- Supplied Wholesale at a Great Advantage,
's .
$
SK
[ROSE’S I
jgfßffm.,
G
mm
>
oQ
LOTA
m
9.
D
THIS valuable Lotion is guaranteed to cure SWELLING
and SANDY BLIGHT, INFLAMED EYES and LIDS,
DIMNESS OF SIGHT, &c. It will be found very bene-
Soial and cooling to those who have weak eyes, or whose
work compels them to strain their eyes. Highly-
recommended by the leading Oculists.
Manufactured only by the Proprietor,
H. A. ROSE
Dispensing and Manufacturing Chemist,
581 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Wholesale by the Proprietor and all Wholesale Houses.
Established 1858. By Post Bs. 6d.
KS?" Manufacturer of Dr. SOUTHAN’S GOUT and
RHEUMATIC PILLS.
DOWS
EMBROC.MIO
11
>l/
OLD
S/6
Business Announcements.
r
xs
*fco S
QNiiiiisSl®
u
hanXS
[RQN^ RC
- a
'I
\^7
f C
r=q ra D rr3
s~=n n
r=”i r~=3 'd
=
SB
OJ
ROBERTS & CO.,
-W HOLESALE-
Ironmongers* lron and Machinery Merchants^
HAY and ENGINE STREETS SYDNEY,
Head Office: 85 Gracechurch Street, London, E.O.
IMPORTERS OF
Railway & Bridge Contractors
Plumbers’
Squatters’
Requirements
IN
Great Variety.
IMPORTERS OF
Engineers’ and Blacksmiths'
Coudibnilders'
Mining
AGENTS FOR:
Knrtinp's fta<? Er pines The best and cheapest yet made. Automatic self-governing, saying cost of gas.
BradS-S U Meters ami Gas Lamps. ‘ Reading Iron Works Universal (Split) Pulley Wheels.
Howe’s Platform and Counter Weighing Machines and Weighbndges.
n
KmffQ
0
0
'.W
vr-V
Wholesale Agents
Guinness’ Extra Stout,
FIRST QUALITY.
Bass Pale Ale,
FIRST QUALITY.
Sole Purveyors to the
Colonial & Indian Exhibition,
London,
(By Special Appointment).
Johnston & Co., Sydney.
for Kixpper’s E 1 fc> erfel Cl Lager -*—* eer
(Specially Brewed for Australia). Absolutely Free from Sediment.
I Engineers, Coppersmiths, Brass and Bell Founders,
Finishers, Plumbers, Ship & General Smiths,
Gas fitters, Art & Medieval Metal Worker
ALLAN A. MARSHALL &
KOI,LEU SKATES (any make) with ISSJASS or WHEELS.
Veritv’s Gas Fires, Heaters and Ventilators at greatly Reduced Prices —11,000 Fires already in use
Importers and Manufacturers of Diving Gear, Yacht and Boat Work of every description in
Iron or Brass, Ships’ Single and Double Action Valve Closets, Fire Hydrants, Hose and all appliances
Bon Accord Works, 1> Macquarie Place, Sydney.
Federated Squatters
—AND—
Farmers’ Co-Operative Association of Australasia, Limited,
Q.TJYCYT, SYTIDISriEIY.
WOOL and PRODUCE and STATION AGENTS.
Advances Made and Deposits Received at Current Rates. Correspondence Invited.
“ The Male Generative Function in Health and Disease
—BY—
A.LEXR. PATERSOTff, M.A., M.D.,
F.R.C.S., Ed. ; M.R.G.S., Eko.
PRICE ... TWO SHILLINGS and SIXPENCE.
)(
OPINIONS OF THE PRESS:
“ Valuable medical work—the Doctor is a quali-
fied man and speaks with authority. Town and
Country Journal.
“Can recommend it as a work written by a
gentleman who has attained a very high status in
his profession.”—Manning River Times.
“It set; forth scientific truths which, in the in-
terests o individuals and society, should be more
generally disseminated.” —Bathurst Free Press.
“ Society would be all the better if people only
gave a little of their reading time to such valuable
medical works as Dr. Paterson has in this instance
given to them.”— Mudgee Independent.
“The author not only fully understands the
perils which beset youth and manhood, but he can
point out the remedies.” —Cobar and Louth
Herald.
li Dr. Paterson, M.A., M.D., F.R.0.5.F., is a
high authority on the matters he deals with.” —
COONAMBLE INDEPENDENT.
“The work is well written, and far away the
best we have read on the subject.” Wilcannia
Times.
“The subject is treated in a manner which
shows the author thoroughly understands it.”—
Fielding Star, N.Z.
“ The book cannot be too widely circulated, and
should be in the hands of every person, male or
female.”— Poverty Bay Independent, N.Z.
“ Totally different from any tiling else of the
kind which has come under our notice.”— Bruce
Herald, N.Z.
“ It is a work whiah every young man should
read and lay to heart ” — Border Post.
157 Elizabeth Street, Hyde Park, SYDNEY.
—)x(
CONSULTATION BY LETTER. £l.
Medical.
&wa/J,?chmnJS2
c
SAV
D
NERVOUS
IP so,
DON’T MISS THIS!
What everyone says is bound to be true, and > oun §
and old, rich and poor, physicians who recommend, and
patients who try
Til 3 Krupp Galvanic Chain Belt,
All agree in praising that most scientific of Electro
Therapeutical Appliances. For Rheumatism it is un-
rivalled. Lumbago at once succumbs to its power. The
Nervous are strengthened and the Debilitated restored to
perfect health and vigour. In short, the appliance is an
unfailing cure for all Nervous, Sexual, or Chronic Diseases,
and is GUARANTEED to ABSOLUTELY CURE, com-
pletely and lastingly, the following complaints:—
Dyspepsia, Neuralgia, Pains in the Back and Chest,
Lumbago, Catarrh, Rheumatism, Dumb Ague,
Nervous Debility, Paralysis, Kidney Complaint,
Spinal Disease, Female Weakness, Diseases of the
Liver, Impotence, Seminal Weakness, Diabetes,
Sciatica, Atrophy, Gout, Indigestion, Asthma, Piles,
Epilepsy Spermatorrhoea, Specks before the Eyes,
Excessive Heart Palpitation, Defective Memory.
An I mSsiUliiu; Cure For Anrieocele.
It is a PORTABLE BODY BATTERY, and contains
special appliances for both sexes; therefore, why waste
your money and health by procuring and taking USELESS
DRUGS? Electricity, when properly applied, is acknow-
ledged by all leading and unprejudiced physicians to be
the only safe and radical cure for Nervous and Sexual
Diseases, and the thousands of testimonials received by
the Krupp Belt Co. from leading personages throughout
Australasia prove the unquesUonable curative properties
of Electricity as applied by theappliance above referred to.
Our confidence in this appliance is so complete, that
we send the Belt out on trial, and guarantee it
to give perfect satisfaction. For full particulars as to
terms, etc., send for our large illustrated treatise, free,
in which these Belts are fully illustrated, the action of
electricity on the nervous system explained, and a lot of
useful information on nervous and sexual diseases given.
This treatise also contains facsimile of testimonials received
from some of our clients who have tried our Belts. Ute
originals of these testimonials produced on application.
Tlie prices of the Krupp Galvanic Chain Belt and
Suspensory are from £l.
Sole Inventor .... Carl Krupp.
Business Manager . . A. W. Courtney.
Address all communications to the
Krupp Galvanic Chain Belt Co.,
Box 647, G.P.0., Sydney, N.S.W.
Remember—The K.G. Chain Belt cures without medicine,
is easy to wear, is sent on approval, and the first cost is
the only cost.
INDISPENSABLE JOE L A - D - 1
AND ALL PERSONS
With a Delicate Skins
MOUSON’S
Cocoa Butter Soap is a real skin-beautifler, and a balm to
young and old alike.
MOUSON & CO., PERFUMERS & TOILET SOAP MANUFACTURERS,
FRANKFORT-ON’-THE-M AINU.
LONDON! 32 & 33 HAMSELL-ST., B.C. PARIS: 2i) RUE R ADZ I WILL.
Full guarantee for perfect purity is offered by the
sole Manufacturers, Mouson & Co.
JULIUS GOLDSCHMIDT & CO.,
231 CLARENCE-ST., SYDN 'V,
SOLE AGENTS FOR AUSTRALASIA.
PICHSii-SHARiES.
fIWB-HUMS. PMUMjS,
IN EQUITY.
Hornsby v. Hudson.
—* —
KT O T I C HI
TO THE
fontiii Comawni' y of Hew South f i es,
HUDSON BROS., Ltd.,
Are still making the Shares which formed
the subject of this great lawsuit. I hey
are now branded
DEE
and their quality is better than ever.
m
HUo
mws
Farmers desirous of encouraging Colonial
Industry can obtain these Shares from ou
Local Agent.
NOTE—Trial samples free of cos^


Medical.
NERVOUS
W
\ ' \ EUREK A
ELECTRICS
BELT
y
M":
■r
A NEVER FAILING CURE FOR ALL,
DISEASES OF THE NERVOUS SYSTEM.
Complete with Suspensory l'vom £l. 0. 0 and
'upwards. This famous Electric Magnetic Belt will cure
-NERVOUS DEBILITY, Seminal Debility, Impotence,
and all weakness ■cattS'M. by indiscretion. Pains in the
Back, Lumbago, t ’OMdiness, Rheumatism, Kidney and
Bladder complaints, and in fact any disease of the Nervous
System. T%'6 currents are steady and constantly felt by
the wbaffer. It has great improvements over all other
belts, We are willing to furnish those belts on 30 days
trial, and accept payment after they have proved them-
selves what we represent them to bo. Those belts are
made for the specific purpose of producing a continuous,
inild, soothing current of electricity through all the weak-
ened parts, restoring them to health and vigorous strength,
(even the worst case permanently cured in three months.
It is more convenient to wear than any other Belt.
A Book illustrated, containing full information and testi-
monials from prominent people throughout Australia,
and informing persons how they may obtain these belts
Without paying for them until they have proved them com-
petent to cure any disease of the Nervous System, will be
forwarded to any address on receipt of a 2d stamp for
postage. t»
Address:- VOLTAIC BELT COMPANY
Box 916, GL P. 0., Sydney.
Dr. James B. Llewellyn,
(registered) ■
SPECIALIST la
GENITO-ÜBINAET DISEASES,
May be CONSULTED at
-3 25 LONSDALE STREEt-
f between Swanstm <t Elizabeth Sts ?,
MELBOURNE.
Consulting Hoars—lo to 2; 7to 9. Sunday
Mornings, 10 to 11.
All Personal Consultations are FREE; by letter the
Fee is £l, which is inclusive of medicines,
D
V 1801 0
iFicopheroos
*"'* FOR
THE HAIR
v.: ■? * * '
Ad .elegant dress-
ing.’;, exquisitely per;
fumed;’ removes all
impurities from the
Scalp. prevents baldness and gray'hair, and
causes the hair to grow Thick, Soft and
Beautiful Infallible for curing eruptions
of the skin-- diseases of the glands, muscles
and integuments, and relieving cuts, burns,
bruises, sprains, &c.
Barry*e Pearl Cream
Imparts to the darkest skin a clear, natural
white, tinged with the faintest rose-blush-:
It speedily removes wrinkles, freckles, sun
burn and tan, and mantles the faded cheek
with youthful bloom and bgautyd
Baby’s Hair Dye.
Put up in two forms, with and without
a preparation Without the preparation,
gradually colors the hair any shade desired,
from a light brown to a black With the
preparation, instantly colors. tl\e hair a na-
tural jet black the ihomenl it is applied.
Cautior None of these preparations gen-
uine without the trade mark of 6arclat
& Co , New York, affixed to eaph bottle.
m" a blessing in every family.
HOLLOWAY’S PILLS ANp OINTMENT.
There is not a country in the civilised world where
the healing virtues of thea a> grand medicines have not been
recognised by thousands of sufferers. In all the ordinary
ailments of humanity their beneficent action is at once
recognised. Fullest directions are supplied for their use
m every disease. IF YOU SUFFER, TRY THEM. Manu-
factured only at 76 New Oxford-st., London. Pur-
chasers should look to the Label on the Boxes and'Pots.
If the address is not 523 Oxford-street, London, they are
spurious.
o
N
G
T
A
R
T
LOONG SHAN TEA HOUSE
NOW OPEN.
QKxoMLg Tart «Sc Oo.’i
EXTENSIVE NEW PREMISES
(Nearly opposite Theatre Royal).
FIRST-CLASS GRILLS,
As well as all kinds of Refreshments, may
be obtained from 7.30 a.m. to 11.30 p.m.
CUP OF DELICIOUS TEA.
ICED DRINKS OF ALL KINDS, &c.
The rooms are splendidly furnished and
fitted up. In addition to the large and
well - appointed Refreshment Rooms,
gentlemen will find on the Second Floor
Commodious and Comfortable Smoking
and Conversation Rooms, furnished with
Chess, Draughts, &c., Ac.
TO THE LAD] ES.
On the First Floor will be found Nice
Private Room for Ladies, convenient for
Writing, Reading, &c., also Retiring
Rooms and Lavatory, with both hot and
cold water laid on. Inspection Invited.
Finest Teas imported—Packets 11b. and
upwards supplied. Orders promptly at-
tended to,
KING STREET, SYDNEY.
K!aj>njgoo fc oasod©
CJI4
0
0
PATENT
PILLS.
*
Medical.
MEDICINE.
Pills
Are universally admitted
to be worth a Guinea
a Box for bilious
and nervous disorders,
such as wind and pain in
the stomach, sick head-
ache, giddiness, fulness
and swelling after meals,
dizziness,
gold chills, flushings pi
heat, Iqss,; of appetite,
shortness ,or breath, cos-
't'jVehess, scurvy, blotches
cn the skin, disturbed
sleep, frightful dreams,
and all nervous and trem-
bling sensations, &c. The
first dose will give relief
, . in twenty minutes. Every
sufferer is earnestly invited to try one box of these
1 ills, and they will he acknowledged to be
Worth a Guinea a Box.
For females of all ages these Pills are invaluable,
as a few doses of them carry off all humors, and
bring about all that is required. No female should
he without them. There is no medicine to be found
equal to BEECHAM'S PILLS for removing any
obstruction or irregularity of the system. If taken ac-
cording to the directions given with each box they will
soon restore females of all ages to sound and robust
health. This has been proved by thousands who have
tried them, and found the benefits” which are ensured by
their use.
For a weak stomach, impaired digestion and all disorders
of the liver, they act like “ MAGIC,” and a few doses will
be found to work wonders upon the most important
organs In the human machine. They strengthen the
Whole muscular system, restore the long-lost complexion,
bring back the keen edge of appetite, and arouse into ac-
tion With the ROSEBUD of health the whole physical
energy of the human frame. These are “FACTS” testified
continually by members of all classes of society; and
one of the best guarantees to the nervous and debilitated
is, Beecbam’s Pills have the largest sale of any patent
medicine in the world.
BeechanTs Magic Cough Pills.
As a remedy for Coughs in general, Asthma, Bronchial
Affections, Hoarseness, Shortness of Breath, Tightness
and Oppression of the Chest, Wheezing, &c., these Pills
stand unrivalled. They are the best ever offered to the
public and * ill speedily remove that sense of oppression
and difficulty of breathing which nightly deprive the
patient of rest. Let any person give Beecijam’s Cough
Pills a trial and the most violent Cough will in a
short time be removed.
Prepared only and sold wholesale and retail by the pro-
prietor, Thomas Beecham, Chemist, St. Helens, Lancashire,
England, in boxes at Is. lid. and 2s. 9d. each.—Sold by
all Druggists and Patent Medicine Dealers everywhere.
N.B.—Full directions ate given with each box.
Consult professor Selby,
3F6 Cleveland Street, Surry Hills, Sydney,
Personally or by letter on Chronic Complaints
of the Nervous System, Diseases of the Urinary
Organs and all Impurities of the Blood. A Positive
Cure in all cases amendable to treatment. Suf-
ferers should read the Profess or’s valuable treatise,
sent post free to all who send their address. It
contains Advice on Marriage, worth its weight
in gold.
EPPS’S
GRATEFUL—COMFORTING
COCO A.
Dr. westcott’S amenorrhcea
PILLS for Ladies, when taken for a few
days before', quickly correct all irregularities
from whatever cause arising ; 2s. 9d. and 4s. (id.,
by post 3s. and ss. W. H. SOUL and CO., 190
Pitt-street, Sydney, Agents.
Musical.
INGHAM’S
PATENT SCALE INSTRUCTOR
roR tiir—
IFI-A.ZjH'OPTOIR/TIE.
PUPILS can obtain the above at once, and the best
way to illustrate its usefulness, to them is to sup-
pose a man to live to be a hundred years old and never
to have seen a Piano, he would, with five minutes’
instruction, be able to play the most difficult Major and
Minor Scales on the instrument.
A WONDERFUL
Beechatn’e
Miscellaneous.
F. C. I7ICHOI.LS & Co.,
WHOLESALE
Confectioners k Pastrycooks*
City Buildings:
736 O-eorise Street, *73©
HAYMARKET.
Steam Works :
617, 619, 621, 539, 541 HARRIS STREET.
Wedding Cakes, &0., Made to Order.'
WALTEE HOPE,
General Merchant & Commission Agent,
199 SUSSEX STREET, SYDNEY.
CONSIGNMENTS of all Produce, Live Stock, etc.,
received and realised in the best markets. Account
Sales and Proceeds remitted the day after sale. Orders
executed for all Goods from Sydney at Lowest Wholesale
Prices
Speciality.— Pure-bred and Pedigree Stock of all de-
scriptions Bouout or Sold on Commission. All communi-
cations referring to Pure-bred Poultry and Eggs for Setting
to be addressed as usual to WALTER HOPE, Bonnyrigg
Prize Poultry Farm, Liverpool, N.S.W.
SPECIAL NOTICE,—The Sydney Bulletin.
Tasmanian Edition Publishers, FITZ-
GERALD BROS. Subscription (payable strictly
in advance), Six Shillings and Sixpence per quar-
ter, or One Pound per annum.
The Bulletin will be on Sale every Friday at
the Office, George Street. Launceston, or from the
Runners in the sired.
Business Announcements.
mHE BANK .OK NfeW ZEALAND.
fl , StbNBY Branches :
w tttr Street, and 53s george street.
Paid-up Capital £1,125,000
The Bank has Agents in all the principal cities
throughout the United States of America and
Canada, and can offer special facilities for dealing
in Bullion, Bills of Exchange, Commercial and
Travellers’ Letters of Credit.
Drafts issued and Bills collected on most favour-
able terms, at rates which can he ascertained oh
application. - r - • j , •
H. E. GIBLIN, Manager.
- KE. HILDER,
BOOT UPPER MANUFACTURER
IMPORTER OP
ENGLISH AND FOREIGN LEATHER,
Elastic Wcl», Grindery, Ac.,
Wholesale and Retail Leather Merchant
539 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Ď
/Esstm ,
./DESCRIPTION
HAIR*WORKfOONE
%
V
SjF
PRIVATE.
ROOMS
.FOR LADIE
/Z 2424
ROYAL
MELBOURNE
J. SITTERLIN,
from Paris,
Ladies’ Hairdresser. Wigmaker. & Perfumer,
25 SYDNEY ARCADE, SYDNEY.
HISTORICAL and fancy hairdressing a
SPECIALTY.
Manufacturer of All Kinds op Theatrical
and Street Wigs.
Anmioniated Quinine*
The most efficient Hair Lotion, to prevent prema-
ture baldness.
Sitterlin's Vegetable Hair-dye,
The only Hair-dye in the colonies to restore Light
Hair to its natural colour. All shades.
Sixcces® CSrTua.ga.iPEki'a.'fceJOca..
MANUFACTURING HATTERS
GEORGE STREET
SYDNEY
IMPORTERS OFAU.THE
NEWESTSHAPES.
And at ALBERT STREET, BRISBANE.
(0
D
.1—
fIUCH
m
FO
MANUFACTURED BV
FAX
SWJ C/tANHOh S/art>cvrS f A
all SaccA'W Q SSorm/cn/iesv
ScUl ty
Business Announcements.
THREE GHEAT LIGHTS'
The Needles Patent Gas-making Machine;
The Harvey Patent Safety Kerosene Lamp,
And tiie New Era Portable Gas Lamp.
The Harvey Lamp has been adopted by the
Railway Commissioners for lighting the Sydney
trams. We were awarded the Highest Order of
Merit and Special Mention by experts at the
late Melbourne Exhibition for our lighting
mediums. Over 6000 Harvey Lamps, ate. in gfUi
in this colony, apd for, »1] dightijig... pttfposge Eift
giving-,.tihiyepsal Satisfaction; ■ TtieSb Ladies caii
ire seen oh one of the North Shore ferry-boats,
and are suitable for all classes of vessels. The
Inventor offers -£2OO to anyone producing as good
a Kerosene Burner.
Patentees for Australasia:
H. T. Smith & Go., 484 Kent St. South, Sydney;
14 Arcade, Adelaide, S.A.; Argent Street, Broken Hill;
Parksido Iron Works, Melbourne.
CHAMPION CHAFF T
At the request of numerous customers we have decided,
in addition to our noted 4s. (id. chaff, to cut a SUPERIOR
sample which will lie known as the
CHAMPION CHAFF.
Each bag will be branded with the word “CHAM-
PION” over our name, and we guarantee every bag to
contain pure all hay chaff, fresh cut , screened and dusted.
Chaff Less Than Wholesale Prices!
We supply the cheapest horsofeed in Sydney.
SPECIAL LlNE.—Prime Chickwheat Bs. per. bushel-
This is exceptional value and is selling rapidly.
City Produce Company,
STEAM CHAFF-CUTTERS.
HAY STREET, HAYMARKET.
Hotels.
PPAHLEET’S HOTEL,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.,
Opposite the Park* 'Wynyard Squares
(Under New Management.)
rilHtS for 25 years well-kn6wn First-class Central ktotei,
recently thoroughly renovated throughout, has every
comfort and attention of a home. The Cuisine Department
is under competent French supervision. Dining Room
open for Non-Residents. Open-air Recreation Garden.
A well-ventilated Billiard Room adjoining Recreation
Ground (three Aloock’s best Tables), under the manage-
ment of A, Buckingham, late of Empire Hotel. Wines
and Spirits of the very best quality only, and the Finest
and Coolest Bar in Town
HOT AND COLD BATHS,
NIGHT PORTEK. French
German
Telephone No. 150. Italian
Spoken
SPECIAL SUITES FOR FAMILIES.
CHAS. HECHT ... Manager.
HOTEL,
Warruambool, Victoria.
THIS old-established and well-known Family
and Commercial Hotel combines all the
requirements of a First-Class Hotel with home
comforts.
It is in full view of the sea and within a short
distance of the picturesque scenery of the Hopkin’s
River, which affords the finest Rod and Fly Fishing
in the colony.
Arrangements made for the Hire of Rowing and
Fishing Boats and Fishing Tackle. Bait, etc.,
supplied. Good Shooting in the immediate
neighbourhood.
It is also within Two Minutes’ walk of the Hot
and Cold Sea Water Baths, which are unsur-
passed in the colonies.
Livery and Letting Stables.
Booking Office for Cobb & Co. ’s Coaches. Tlios
Cook & Sons’ Hotel Coupons taken.
GEORGE W. CLARE - Proprietor.
THE GEORGE HOTEL
(opposite Railway Station , near Baths),
St. Hilda, Victoria,
First-class Family & Commercial Hotel,
~ A3T For particulars, apply to
lE*.
PROPRIETOR.
"jJ-ATOOMBA FAMILY HOTEL.
JOSEPH NIMMO.
first-class Accommodation for Tourists and Families
Wires and I,otters to be addressed “Proprietor.”
Arrangements can be made to provide transit for person?
wishing to view the celebrated Jenolan Caves and
Other places of interest.
R~oyal hotel.
Esplanade,
ST. KILDA, VICTORIA,
Facing Beach, close to Pier and Baths,. Ten
minutes from Station.
H. MOONEY .... Proprietor.
LIVERY LETTING STABLES ATTACHED.
Telephone GB2.
First-class Accommodation for Visitors
IMPERIAL HOTEL,
TOOWOOMBA, QUEENSLAND.
Acknowledged the Best Hotel on the Darling
Downs. First-class Accommodation.
Private Suites. First C'lass Sample Rooms.
Conveyance Meets Every Train.
JOHN LONG - - L?.t? cf Now Scalar


SHEVILL & C
Corner Queen Street and Flinders Lane,
MELBOURNE.
°y
MERCANTILE AUCTIONEERS,
Land, and Estate Agents,
.
-a.
%
■' : -
=-<fl
Lit.:
m?
ft
4
z&smst-
m
JLJ
Advances made against shipments of Merchandise
and Colonial Produce.
Daily Sales held at their Commodious
New Rooms.
OUTDOOR
Furniture & Land Sales Conducted.
Branch
Offices
f 32 Chapel St., Prahran. >
\ 2 Albert St., Windsor. /
Branch
Offices
Gold Medal
est
H f
h
H BROS.’
iwiErw"
FURNITURE
WAREHOUSES,
York Street, Wynyard Square, Sydney,
Now supply the General Public as well as the Trade.
■■■■■—'>«4 1
10,000 Bedsteads,
From. XOs. 6d. to £35.
fHOT and
Seawater Baths,
WxuusAMßOOb, Victoria.
HYGIENIC, + CURATIVE.
Corks
SCIATICA, RHEUMATISM,
Nervous & Skin Diseases.
Testimonials from all parts of the
Colonies.
Water direct from Southern Ocean
pumped by eras motor, retainin'; all
natural qualities; tree from objec-
tions of Hay water. Large swim-
ming basins for ladies and gentle-
men. Marble plunge baths, hand-
somely appointed. Bracing air,
charming scenery, fishing, shooting,
. beautiful drives place Warrnambool /
iii the front rank as a sanatorium,
Tliozaas Robs,
TOBACCO & CIGAR IMPORTER,
27 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
(Corner of Pitt Street.)
A large stock of Genuine llavannali Cigars, of the
choicest Brands to select from.
Sole Importer of the Celebrated “ Flor dc Bonita*’
Brand of Cigars and “Empire Cigarettes.”
Falls Bb idge Family |f OTEL -
Falls Bridge, Melbourne.
This magnificent Hotel, containing 50 Double
and Single Rooms, is splendidly furnished and
perfectly ventilated.
Hot and Cold Plunge and Shower Baths.
Electric Bells. Telephone 1217. Billiards, Ac.
Terms Strictly Moderate.
J H. DURRANI' “ Manager
Late of the South Australian Club Hotel, Adelaide.
Free Prescriptions
Are to be found in the “Light ami Life,’
for the Speedy Cure of Nervous Debility and
Kindred Diseases, &c. A copy of this book will
be sent Free, sealed, for Six Penny Stamps.
A. ddvess —
S. WARD & CO,, SYDNEY PHARMACY,
76 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
Use
FRY’S MALTED GO
HnntiugtoH Mill.
Knowles’ rumps.
PARKE & LACY GO.,
MINING & HYDRAULIC ENGINEERS
AND
GENERAL MACHINERY MERCHANTS,
&o., ’ «Sco., *Sbo.
187 & 189 Clarence Street,
SY33TSJE:Y, kt.s.w.
«
And SAN FRANCISCO, CALIFORNIA.
Rock Breakers.
/
ncstinghouse Engines.
TANOITSS
Hay St., Haymarkei, Sydney,
ENGINES,
2 to 50 H.p.
BOILERS,
1 to 35 H.r.
STEAM PUMPS
For all purposes.
CENTRIFUGAL PUMPS.
2" to 40" d ischarge.
HAND PUMPS.
Saw Benches.
Lathes,
DRILLING MACH'NES.
Sc 0,, Sco.
sal
- - ■
mm mm,
Hauling Engines.
Battery Engines.
Saw-mill Engines.
FLOUR-MILL !■
ENGINES
FOR
Electric Lighting.
Vertical Boilers.
Muliitukkr Boilers,
CORN 1911 HOI
&c., &0.
Wo invite al those requiring Machinery of any kind for any purpose, large or small, to write for particulars and prices. From the extent of our stock we are
vv e mvitr 1 ° Visitors whether buyers or net, are always welcome to inspect the magnificent display in our new and extensive hhowmu
& 135 HAY STREET, H A YM AHKB T
12 8,
131,
133
generally able to give immediate delivery,
ns,
, SYD3XTE Y.
