

AITKEN’S ALE.
ii
f 9?
ISKY.
life i;ruv mi and.
the: he s t in this market.
USED by the late chakles dickens,
At!) M'miEß TO jSJi; J'KIXOI’AI, (1,1 liS IV SVOVKY
HARRISON & ATTWOOD, 251 George-st. Sydney, Bole Agents for Mew South Wales.
ROBERTS’
Street, S'Z’IDILTIE^r.
UK UIVALLEJ) ACCOM .M O DAT! OS.
h
ĥ
NEW YORK LIFE INSURANCE CO.
ESTABLISHED
1845.
It is a MUTUAL COMPANY, and N(T LIABILITY IS INCURRED by its policy-holders. There are no shareholders, and, consequently,
no interest adverse to those of the policy-holders.
STATEMENT FOR YEAR ENDING 31st DECEMBER. 1889.
Incontestable Non-Forfeiting Free Tontine Policies
The. NON-FORFEITING FREE TONTINE POLICY of this Company combines in one form the greatest number of advantages attainable in
a Life Insurance Policy. The returns on these Policies have been unsurpassed by those of any other Company. »
The Policies, as now issued, are notably FREE FROM RESTRICTIONS as to Occupation, Residence and Travel; are INCONTESTABLE
AFTER TWO YEARS, except in case of fraud. .. ........... . ,
CLAIMS ARE PAYABLE IN THE COLONIES at the nearest Branch Olhce, in sterling; and all disputed claims (m case any should arise)
in Australia are to be decided by Australian' Courts.
Chief Offices. Department of Australasia: ... BOND STREET CHAMBERS, SYDNEY.
.CTOSE-AJESC HOWELL, Gt-eneral j&EEbA'Xsa.j^er.
Do not insure until you have seen full particulars of the New York Life's policies, with guaranteed dividends
N.H.-MKN OF (TI AMAOTKII AND KNKHGV WANTED AS AGENTS.
Paris House
RESTAURANT FRANCAIS.
TABLE D’HOTE PARISIENNE, 2s. 6d.
(Wine Included).
run ati: rooms, 4s.
);(
IW Being in close proximity to the leading places
of amusement, families intending to spend the
evening at the theatre cannot do better than to
order their dinner here.
Private Rooms for Dinners & Slippers.
Suppers after the Theatre if ordered.
BANQUET ROOMS for PARTIES up to FORTY.
Service a la carte Daily from 8 a.m. till II p.m.
OPEN ON SUNDAYS.
Vinners from 3s. 6d. upwards.
Estra Dinners at a Few Minutes’ Notice.
. & (J.
isL
roiJTTB OF SUPERIORITY.
!■—Steel drag bar, in place of cast iron, relieves
all strain on main frame.
“•—Side draught obviated by draught rod being
adjustable on drag bar.
'’■—All complicated gear replaced by onu bevel
wlie*l, one pinion.
b - Knife can be drawn by removal of one colter.
*’• Machine will start on dead centre without back-
ing horses in heaviest crops.
sirs.
r
Frizes Won, 13SO
I i,Mi<':i.nlr.'jan. First. Watfgy, I'iisl.
t .lerilderlc ~ Hay
Prizss Wc:v,- 1830
Howard steel orient :.«;ower .
HOWARD’S OMTEISTT BAKES,
-A.*i|*'Xo American
280 i PITT STREET, SYDNEY
' &
&
Acknowledged
The Best
The Bulletin
Yol. 11— No. 564]
[Saturday, December 6, 1890.


TOBACCO
Sffli
HI
UUlQlii
DIXSOPSONS
Customs Returns.
American Leaf.
Dixsou •' lid Sons ounsumerl in 1888, 52,5921b3.
more. pine! in 1880 (over I t tons 1 ) 98,939 lbs. more
American Leaf than alt the i vest of New South
Wales put together.
JJIXSON >S TOHAC< ’OS having the largest
*ale of any in Australia are -
o
V*
ħ
Dr.RIDGE’S
FOOD
FOB INFANTS AND INVALIDS
“Tills is the MOST PERFECT FOOD
we have examined. Chas. H. Piesse,
M.R.C.S., F.C.S., &c. Wm. Johnstone
Ph.D., F.C.S., &c., Public Analysts.
DR. RIDGE’S ROYAL FOOD MILLS,
LONDON, ENGLAND.
LAM PLOUGH'S
h
ĥ
ħ
“ You have iji vt-n me lift <md living*
Colonel M.uxKsox writes as follows;— •*Madame Koze
recognises in .your preparation the precious Saline that
she found so invaluable when she visited New Orleans
during 1 the last yellow fever epidemic, in order, by her
concerts, to raise funds for the benefit of the stricken
ones, who could not afford the necessary comforts, and
which the crowded hospitals were unable to supply to
thousands of applicants. Madame Roze was advised by
Dr. Barnes, of London, to take your Saline with her, and
we took several dozen bottles. I really believe it saved
our lives.’*
Acts as a Gentle but Effectual Restorative ; Allaying all
tendency to Feverishness ; Invigorating-the Digestion.
Acting on the Liver, Bowels and Kidney's imperceptibly
but surely'; tranquillising the Nervous System, inducing
wholesome appetite and recuperating the brain power.
Its utility as a remedy in fevers, and as a cooling drink
in diseases of children, such as scarlet fever, measles, &c.,
has been testified to by the leading members of the
profession. .May be had of all Chemists in glass-stoppered
bottles, at 2s. 6d., 4s. fid. and 11s. each.
CAUTION.—Take care that when you ask for “ Lam'
plough’s Pyretic Saline” you do not have one of the
numerous spurious imitations foisted upon you.
ELLIOTT BROS., Wholesale Agents,
SYDNEY.
GOLD E N S II A N T Y.
Australian stories and sketches is prose and verse
Bound in handsome Cloth Binding, 2s. fid., post paid.
LAMPLOTCH'S PYRETIC SALINE
Price One Shilling.
—BY —
“BULLETIN WRITERS.
ALL AGENTS.
Williams’s Australian
Yeast Powder.
is the only perfect substitute for yeast.
-5 : >—
Bread, Tea CaJses, Pastry, <Ssc.,
AKE
——Light, Wholesome and Digestible
WHEN MADE WITH
Williams’ Australian IT east Powder,
FOR THE TOWN, THE RUSH, AND THE SEA.
Beware of Worthless Imitations. Sold in Tins at 6d. the Half-Pound
COMPLETE OUTFITS
—FOR—
DRILLING ARTESIAN WELLS
Supplied on most reasonable terms.
ALSO-
DRIVE PIPE OR CASING
ANY REQUIRED SIZE.
American Expert Driller sent with Plants.' Contracts taken for Drilling.
For Pliers and Particulars, apply to
William Fleming,
22 & 24 Clarence Street, Sydney (Corner Margaret-Street).
*
' ■•' ' '•
K&‘
BE
ai
25?S
m
ic
r&m
SI
m
'Si
I
*/
sc~
SrT<
2-^
SPECIAL NOTICE.— The Sydney Bulletin.
Tasmanian Edition Publishers, I'IIZ-
GERALD BROS. Subscription (payable strictly
in advance), Six Shillings and Sixpence per quar-
ter, or One Pound per annum.
The Bulletin will be on Sale every Friday at
the Office, George Street, Launceston, or from the
Runners in the street .
CHEAP ARTESIAN WELLS
Sunk at a quarter of the usual cost by the combined
Hydraulic and Pole-Tool Processes.
SIX-INCH WELL, 629 ft. deep, has been sunk and
cased in eight hours, and 100 ft. in forty minutes, by
the Hydraulic Process. A 1000 ft. Plant, with Derrick,
Steam-engine, and Boiler, for £3OO. Can be run by any
intelligent man. Lighter Plants from £lOO up. We pub-
lish a Treatise on Well-Sinking, with Illustrations, which
we will send you prepaid for Is. THE AMERICAN
WELL WORKS, Box 799, G.P.0., Sydney.
A
«OYAI
fcOfNBURC
‘ CAS TL E
S»cciuntu«
* * A
ScofCH Whisky
A <uwV/ixjj
4t&Pk/*xio u
MASON BROTHEKB,
LIMITED.
GENERAL MERCHANTS & SHIPPING AGENTS,
203 to 277 KENT STREET, SYDNEY'.
Have always in stock for sale to the trade and whole*
sale buyers only,
Ironmongery, mid
GENERAL HARDWARE
Glass, t hin,i and
KART H E N \V A R E.
WIKESi !>/','l.'h‘S SrililT.%
AND OKNKIIAI.
BULK MERCHANDISE.
Solo Agents for
LUCIEN I'OUCAULD & CO.’S
CM Brandies.
,T. T. OAYEN’S,
Schnapps and Geneva.
Ist Prize Sydney International Ex.
A. MELVIN and CO.'S
Champagne Pale Ales.
MACHEN’S
“Pelican” Stout.
‘The Royal Edinburgh Castle ” old Scotch Whiskies.
“ A G-olden Shanty,”
PRICE—ONE SHILLING.
NOW ACKNOWLEDGED
THE BEST
IN THE MARKET
maUllJ
h
M.WAC2
> SOLD
EVERYWHERE
Sole Agents; JAMES MOIR&CO., 58Morgaret-st.,Sydney
JJERVE or PHYSICAL FORCE
WHEN LOST,
QUICKLY REGAINED
—BV—
Consul!in<; l{. J. POVIiTOX, Chemist,
77 Bot'RKK Street, MELBOURNE.
NV ho, after intense study and deep research, has
lately discovered a New, Extraordinary, Quick,
Certain and Inexpensive Cure for Diseases of the
Brain and Deranged Functions of tin* Nervous
System. Consult personally or by J>tUr.
tro*-.
LIP
D
<l/
/S\C\l
sk\
Hi
W
e
S*
o
L
H
Q
0
FFICES
MI LDURA
0/,
/i x
Melbourn e
Renmark
Adelaide _.
England
ICTORIA.
Chaffey Irrigation Offices, Swcnstcn Street.
South Australia.
Cavendish Chambers, Grenfell Street.
J. £. Mathew Vincent, (Chief Commissioner)
Cornwall Buildings, 35 Queen Victoria St
LONDON EC
ĥ


Medical.
09 YORK STREET, WYNYARD SQUARE, SYDNEY,
p.O. Box 920. This eminent specialist is a graduated
physician of Harwood University, U.S., registered by the
Governments of N.S.W. and N.Z., and has devoted 16
ve ars to the special study of CHRONIC, NERVOUS, SKIN
and SPECIAL diseases of MEN and WOMEN. All apply-
ing to him will receive his honest opinion of their com-
plaints. No experimenting ;no mercury used. A positive
'•nre guaranteed or forfeit £2OO. His vast experience
tells him that where there is no organic disease, and
nothing but an inorganic trouble, or, in other words, a
conglomeration of symptoms producing a certain result,
there is no reason why it cannot be removed with the
proper remedies: therefore he guarantees. He claims to
be the most skilful and successful physician in N.SAV. in
his particular speciality, viz., the CHRONIC and SPECIAL
DISEASES of MEN and WOMEN. Examination and
advice free to all. Charges moderate. Office Hours—lo
a.m. to 12 a.m.; 2 to 4 and 7 to 8 pm.
KTervous Delaility-
Consult Dr. Speer in all cases of NERVOUSNESS through
indiscretion, for his many years of practice with this
dreadful disease enables him to remove all traces of it and
to return the victims to full VIGOUR, HEALTH and
MANHOOD.
N.B.—TWENTY SHILLINGS is sufficient to send for
remedies necessary for the cure of NERVOUS DEBILITY.
DR. SPEER will forward, post free, the following
celebrated pills:—
1. AMERICAN “VITAL” PILLS, for nervous debility,
lost vitality, sexual weakness, errors, &c., 55., or 21s. for
five boxes,
2. -AMERICAN “PRIVATE” PILLS, for discharges,
contagious sores and blood diseases, 55., or 21s. for live
boxes.
3. “FEMALE” PILLS for irregularities and obstruc-
tions from whatever cause, 10s. and 20s.
M-
t#
SUFFERING FROM
BRAIN & NERVE EXHAUSTION
Any man who in his youth has trifled away his vigour
(f body, ir.ind, and manhood, should consult PRO-
FESS© (I CAR!. STINEWAY, the Eminent Spcci list,
in diseases of ilie Genito-Urinary Organs, who is still
treating with the greatest skill and success all Private,
Neivous, and Chronic Diseases.
Professor STIJCEWAY’3 great success, which has
become so firmly established throughout Australian,
is based upon tho facts : - Ist. That every cse treated,
even in its most remote effects, is specially studied,
thin starting aright. 2nd The Medicines and T lectiic
Appliances used are exactly adapted to unit the case,
thus promptly producing results without overdosing
or injury.
I SEEK CASES WHERE ALL ELSE HAS FAILED.
Young anil middle-aged men and cfhers, who
Suffer from Nervous and Physical Debility,
Exhausted Vila ily, Premature De line, * c., can
recover iho same degree of li.allh, strength,
and energy cxperietic. d in former years, by
consul.ing (in ers norby / tier, which is free),
Professor CARL STifJEWAwho has restored
thousands of sufferers io vigo ous manhood
after all o her irca mint had laded. It makes
no difference what you have taken, or who has
fad dto cure you. C scs that / accept for treat-
m nl arc quickly and permanen ty cw\ el, ‘
DO ANY OF THE FOLLOWING SYMPTOMS
OR CLASS OF SYMPTOMS MiET YOUR
DISEASED CONDITION :-Are you a sufferer
from bad health ill any of its many forms, consequent
on a lingering Nervous, Chronic, or Functional
Disease ? "Do yon feel nervous, debilitated, fretful,
timid, and lack Iho pow < of will and action? Are
yen subject to loss of memory ; have spells of faint-
ing ; fullness of blood n the bead; feel listless,
moping, unfit for business or pleasure, and subject to
fits of melancholy? Arc your kidneys, stomach,
urinary organs, liver, or blood in a disordered con-
dition ? Do you suffer from Rheumatism, Neuralgia,
or other aches and pains? Arc you timid, nervous,
and forgetful, with your mind continually dwelling
on the subject? Have yon lost confidence in yourself,
and energy for business pursuits? Arc yon subject
to restless nights, broken sleep, dreams, palpitation of
the heart, hashfuhicss, confusion of ideas, aversion
io society, dizziness in the head, dimness of sight,
pimples on the face and hack, and other desponding
symptoms? If you are afflicted, why further neglect
your health or future happiness, when by a single
consultation (which costs nothing) you can be placed
on the way to health strength, and vigour?
VARICOCKI.IS easily and
quickly cured by my only
Genuine Electric Appliance,
by Royal Letters Patent.
Persons living at a distance who desire
treatment without delay can, by forward-
ing a full description of their case and
JEI, receive Medicines by return of post.
Do not despair, even though ail others have failed
In your case. I will cure you. My vast experience
enables me to guarantee a positive cure in all cases
undertaken. CONSULTATIONS FREE. Medicines
sent secure from observation to any part of
Australasia.
“From Bondage to Freedom,” my latest
and entirely new work on Brain and
Nerve Exhaustion. Private, Nervous, and
Chronic Diseases, should be read by every
man ; nearly one hundred pages. By post,
two stamps.
A written guarantee given in all cases un-
dertaken, and no promises made that age, in-
tegrity, and long experience do not justify.
My HYGIO-ELECTRIC APPLIANCES (by
Royal Letters patent) are the only genuine
Bells ami Trusses in Australia.
Address—
Professor CARL STINEWAY,
21 ELIZABETH STREET,
MELBOURNE, Victoria.
MENTION THIS PAPER.
Something KTew.
YOUR NAME neatly printed on Forty (40)Beautiful
Embossed VISITING CARDS, comprising Floral
Landscape, Sea View, Bird, &c. No two alike. ALL
FOR ONE SHILLING in Stamps, postage paid. Agents
wanted. Samples free. Address—
Austrnl t'nnl timl Novelty 4 «..
14 Huntrr Strrft, SYDNEY.
EUCALYPTE Oiusa.
Medical.
THE TREE OF LIFE.
m &S&&S-
I
lal-
£
h
Z
o
>.
CC
©
h
u
>
Duncan Ross,
The Great American Athlete,
CURED of INFLUENZA by using COLEMANE & SONS
EUCALYPTE EXTRACT.
DON’T BE DECEIVED.
If you want the best Medicine the world has ever pro-
duced, try Colemane & Sons’ Eucalypti-’. Extract— there
are no ten medicines equal to it. It is one of Nature's
greatest gifts to mankind. It is the only known cure for
Asthma, Consumption, Bronchitis, and .all affections of
the Chest and Lungs. For Palpitation of the Heart,
Gravel and Kidney complaints it has. no equal. Fevers of
all kinds, C oughs, Colds, Rheumatism, etc., are banished
by its use. Awarded Medals and Diplomas Adelaide,
Sydney and Melbourne, beating all competitors. Children
should have Eucalypte Honey or Eucalypte Lozenges.
Adults will find sugar-coated Eucalypte Pills pearls of
great price. For external use try Colemane and
Sons Special 01. Sole Manufactory, Cootamundra
[AMES’
TANSY TILLS are Totter thou
Steel, Pennyroyal, or Ergot. Curej
obstructions from whatever cause.
Never fails. No Pills or
like them. Particulars free.
W. PARKER. P.O. Box 100, Melbourne.
GOLDEN SHAN T Y.
PRICE : ONE SHILLING,
n Handsome Cloth Binding, 2s Gd, post paid 3
Medical.
Book of nXTsL.'fc’o.are.
m
- ' T
m
11
v*
r.i
of HXTEbtreure.
BOOK of NATURE and Illustrated Mariage
Guide. —A full and explicit explanation of the
structure and uses of the organs cf life and generation in
man and woman, intended especially for the married,
or those intending to marry, and who conscientiously
and honestly desire to inform themselves upon the intent
and nature of conjugal pleasures and duties, to which is
added A COMPLETE MEDICAL TREATISE upon all
diseases of the generative organs, whether resulting from
infection or abuse, with much other valuable and highly
important information, illustrated with more than fifty
engravings, fully depicting the mysterious process of
gestation, from the time of conception to the period of
delivery. No such complete panorama of the mysteries
of human production has ever before been given to the
world, by D. Lafayette M. Byrn, M.D., price 3,0, post
4/-. The art of Boxing, Swimming, and Gymnastics made
easy, enabling anyone to become an expert boxer and
athlete, price 1/-. Plain Home Talk about the Human
System, new edition, 200 illustrations, by Dr. Foote post
free 7/0. The Fruits of Philosophy or Private Companion
for Young Married People, 1/-, post 1/2. Mrs. Bcsant’s
Law of Population, 1/-, post 1/2. Aristotle, complete, 3/0,
post!/-. Maria Monk, 1/6, post 1/9. Marriage as it Was,
as it is, and as it should be, by Annie Besant, 1/-, by-
post 1/2. Wonderful Song Book, extra large, 1/0. How
to Mesmerise, Thought Reading, Mesmeric Entertain-
ments, &c., price 1/0.
“ Every Man his own Schoolmaster, or How to
Educate One’s Self, illustrated ; price 1/0.
Modern Etiquette, Parties, Courtship, Love, Dress,
Visiting Introductions, Weddings, &c., 1/0.
“ The Silent Friend,” by Dr. Lamartine, 1/0.
The Secret of Beauty Revealed, and Guide to Female
Loveliness ; price Is.
“ Nigger Slump Speeches and Comic Pattern,” Cd.
The Male Generative Organs, their use and abuse, in
health and disease, from infancy to old age, with the
treatment of all their derangements, for every man’s own
private use; illustrated by numerous engravings and
colored plates, by r Dr. F. Hollick, M.D., new revised
Australian edition, superior cloth binding, gilt, juice 5/,-
post free. I!. BEAR, Central Book Depot, 10 Park
Street, SYDNEY.
'.,1:1
mm
&
iniill!!
K.
iiiinij
£
UJ Cel
<
CO
cQ
■m®i
X
v>
J
v
cumuli!
1 V
mm
&
- 1
m
fT\
V
TRIUM PH
ofThe Qood.Spi^ ll ' over Bad.
Used in hospitals throughout the world in preference to the
best French Brandy. TRY IT.
AGENTS
m New South Wales,
H
Siki
FI MLfV
Important to Nervous Suffersrs.
Dr. PERRY,
M.R.C.S., L.S.A., &c.,
Registered by the Medical Board of N.S.W.; Late
House Surgeon to the Great Northern Hospital, London.
Specialist for the Treatment of Diseases
OF TUB
Reproductive Organs and Nervous Complaints.
WHY I ADVERTISE.
I advertise because I consider it necessary that people
suffering from Nervous, Sexual and Chronic Complaints,
should be able to ascertain which
DULY-QUALIFIED PRACTITIONERS
make these Diseases a speciality, particularly as, under
the present law, any person can call himself Doctor or
Professor, whether he is entitled to do so or not; and these
persons exist, chiefly, because Duly Qualified Prac-
titioners have not occupied the field.
Dr. PERRY invites the fullest investigation into his
credentials, and gives his Personal Consideration to
each Case, and in all cases tells the Patient the exact
nature of his complaint, the cost of a cure, and the time
it will take.
Dr. PERRY’S experience in the treatment of these
Diseases has been so varied and extensive, that he is able
to tell absolutely whether the case is curable or not, and
therefore is willing to
Guarantee to CURE EVERY CASE he Uudertakes.
VARICOCELE quickly and successfully treated without operation. DIABETES and TUMOURS treated by a
totally new method of Cutaneous Medication,
ur <s en rt for Dr PERRY'S Work oil Diseases of the Reproductive Organs. Diabetes, Tumours, Skin Diseases,
etc containing many simple directions as to SELF-MANAGEMENT, the observance of which is, in many oases,
sufficient to place the Patient in a healthy state. All who are in any way affected should procure this work, and
thus have the benefit of his advice and experience. FREE ON APPLICATION.
Consultation Hours from 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. each WEEK-DAY, and from T to 9 p.m. on TUESDAY and SATURDAY
EVENINGS. All Consultations (either personally or by letter) FREE. Address-
Dr. M. PERRY, M.R.C.S., Elmley House,
151 ELIZABETH STREET,
Mention this Paver.
HYDE PARK. SYDNEY. N.P.W.
Medical.
E)r. 3FtICHARISS.
The new ELECTRICAL, CONSULTING and
LABORATORY ROOMS being completed, Dr.
Richards will in future be pleased to welcome his
friends and patients, during his consulting hours,
at his new addx-css,
34 COLLEGE STREET, SYDNEY.
SffiS
L i
WM
t W’l
D RtCHARaS
This eminent Specialist, Founder, and Chief
Surgeon of the long-established and favourably-
known Dispensary that now bears his name, re-
ceived his medical education in the leading colleges
and hospitals of Europe. He has devoted a life-
time to the study of
PRIVATE, NERVOUS, AND SKIN
DISEASES.
He has by profound research thoroughly investi-
gated their origin, traced their deadly sources and
insidious dissemination, and ascertained the surest
and safest methods by which they may be eradi-
cated, with these widely recognised qualifications
combined with unswerving faithfulness to his
patients, he has during his practice, extending
over FORTY YEARS, attained a well-deserved
pre-eminence in their treatment. His practice
embraces diseases which probably cause more un-
happiness than any other class of troubles that
afflict mankind.
YOUNG MEN
who suffer from the results of early follies, trans-
gressions or excesses of more nature ago, bladder
difficulties, a whitish or dark ropy sediment in
the water, accompanied by slight burning or
smarting sensation, Headaches, Drowsiness during
the day, circles round the eyes, Giddiness,
irregularity of the bowels, specks before the eyes,
bashfulness, discontenlcdness, weakness or pains
in the back, Liver or kidney complaints, dreams,
buzzing noises in the ears and head, pimples, a
fear that something dreadful is about to happen,
weak stomach, yellow or blood-shot eyes, impure
blood, hasty, uncontrollable temper, hacking
cough, who cannot marry, nervousness in society,
wakefulness, palpitation of the heart, general
weakness, and other symptoms which lead to in-
sanity and death, should consult him, for he has
mastered these difficulties. On receipt of (id. in
stamps he will send secure from observation in a
plain wrapper, postage
FREE, A LARGE CLOTH-BOUND
BOOK.
Showing plainly how all diseases of the private or
nervous system may be cured thoroughly and per-
manently without unnecessary expence. this
book will prove a valuable companion, and even
though you be perfectly well its general inform-
tion and prescription may assist you in restoring
some poor friend to health even after his case has
been pronounced incurable by his medical at-
tendant.
ONE POUND IS SUFFICIENT TO
SEND
for Remedies necessary for the cure of NER-
VOUS DEBILITY. Should you require medical
treatment, as procrastination is sometimes dan-
gerous, it would be advisable for you to sit down
quietly in your chamber and write to the doctor,
detailing every experienced symptom. Ho will
on receipt of such a letter, write you, promptly
and courteously, a candid and straightforward
oponion of your case. If you do not think you
understand the case, send for his famous medical
work, the price of which is but sixpence ; enclosed
in the volume will be found a list of carefully-pre-
pared questions, which will, in all probability,
assist you materially in describing your ailment.
Dr. Richards uses nothing but the purest remedies,
and never prescribes mercury under any circum-
stances. The moment letters are carefully per-
used and answered they are destroyed by fire,
and patients may rest assured that their cases
will remain a secret between the doctor and
themselves. Dr. Richards has successfully treated
nearly 25,000 cases since coming to Australia, and
has permission from at least 10,000 persons to
show their written evidence of his success. All
communications should be addressed
Dr. RICHARDS,
;U COLLEGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Be sure to mention tins paper when writing
CONSULTATION FUEE.


c?
m L
v«>
T. ROBIMSON <Sc 00. Limited
Machinery and Implement Manufacturers and Importers.
T. E. AND Co.’s Improved STEEL EARTH SCOOPS, on Wheels or Skid
T. E. AND Co.’s HAM-SINKING or EOAH-MAKING PLOUGHS, all
sizes.
T. R. AND Co.’s New DRAIN DORMERS.
1\ R. and Co.’s “ Solway ” Patent TUMBLE-OYER BOX WOOL-
PRESS—the Cheapest and Best yet made.
T. R. AND Co.’s STEAM, HORSE or HANDPOWBR WOOL-PRESSES
T, R, and Co.’s HARVESTING MACHINERY of every description.
T. R. AND Co.j Ltd., are SOLE AGENTS for the
New Light Steel “ Brantford ” Reaper and Binder.
Address = 407 & 409 Ellzatoetll Street, MELBOURNE,
F.
&
LIMITED
GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
Write for Catalogue of Watches (by post, FREE).
THOUSANDS SOLD.
Post
IF* i* e e.
15s.
\®/
TL»
s
IS3
N s-\ 60*7'v-
r„ os \ $.
Genuine ►Success of the
"WANDERER” WATCH.
Will LAST FOR YEARS.
Testimonial from A. E. Martin, Walhallow,
Quirindi “ I have previously had two of your
‘Wanderer’ Watches, and as they have given
such satisfaction, the station hands are going in
for them. I herewith enclose 30s. for two more.”
Post
P r e e.
15s.
3SMC
or.-;
BACK.
Lady's Solid Silver
Keyless Watch.
Open Face, with best enamelled
dial, very tastefully engraved,
jewelled in six holes, calculated
to keep good time and last for
years.
Price -30 s.
\ 1 /
6fS
FACE,
fob a watch that can be belied on
For Regular Movements, a PERFECT TIMEKEEPER, and not liable to get out
of order, we recommend
The “ WANDERER”
The demand has increased so. much: that we had to strain every nerve to keep the
Public Supplied. This Watch cannot be compared with those extensively-adver-
tised, cheap and nasty American Watches, which are made on the “Grandfather
Clock” principle, and take all day to wind, BUT THE WANDERERS’ ARE
REALLY FIRST-CLASS, as demonstrated by the numerous testimonials received.
“ Captain Cuttle.”
This Watch is a Hunter and Keyless, well-made through-
out, enamelled dial, jewelled in six holes, and will stand
very hard wear. Price, 20s; post free, 20s 8d (regd)
Hr When writing for Catalogues, please state which particular one you require.
ms
Purchasers should see that the Label on every bottle of the original
WORCESTERSHIRE SAUCE
bears the Signature, thus :
CL-
Ask for Lea & Perrins’ Sauce, and see Name on "Wrapper, Label, Bottle and Stopper.
Wholesale and for Export by the Proprietors , Worcester ; Crosse $ Blackwell, London, s e -i
and by Grocers and Oilmen throughout the World.
Soap
T4>
Unrivalled
for the Complexion.
Tlie Bulletin Christinas Number.
The CHRISTMAS NUMBER of The Bulletin (double the size of the usual weekly issue) will be published on
18th December, 1890. It will contain original Stories, Prose, Verse, etc., from the pens of the leading writers of Australasia.
A. Magnificent Coloured Supplement, entitled.
“PROTECTION” (an Old Love Story Retold),
Will accompany the Number, which will' also be Profusely Illustrated with Original Drawings from the pencils of Livingston
Hopkins, G. R. Ashton, Phil. May, Spence, Mahoney, Egersdorfer, and others.
Expense will not be spared to make this issue the best arid most brilliant Australasian publication of the Christmas season.
INTO INOHEASE 13ST FHICB,


The Bulletin
Vol. 11—No. 564.
SATURDAY, DECEMBER 6, 1890.
Fries, 34.
“WHO DARES TO LAUGH?”
"Who dares to laugh?”— PREMIER PARRES.
“A young man has been sent to gaol for a month at Adelaide for hooting Governor Kintore." —DAILY PAPER
HIS EXCELLENCY: "I say, gardenaw-aw-didn't I heah a sound of dewisive laughtaw just now?"
GARDENER: "You did, my Lord, but it's only a bird called the Laughing Jackass or Kookaburra-wery common in these parts!"
HIS EX.: "Well-aw-get a gun and -aw-make an example of the cr[?]achaw."


Notice to Agents.
A capital Christmas Number of The
Bulletin (double the size of the usual weekly
issue) will be published on 18th DECEMBER,
1890. It will contain Bright and Original
Stories, Prose, Verse, etc., from the pens of
the leading writers of Australasia.
A Coloured Supplement
—ENTITLED—
“PROTECTION”
An Old Love Story Re-told,
Will accompany the Number, which will also
he prof usely illustrated with Original Drawings
from the pencils of Livingston Hopkins, G. R.
Ashton, Phil. May, Spence, Mahony, Egers-
dorfer, ami others.
Expense will not be spared to make this issue
the best and most brilliant Australasian pub-
lication of the Christmas season.
Intending subscribers are requested to place
their orders with Bulletin agents without
delay. Anyone beyond the reach of an agent,
can obtain a single copy by mailing address
and 7d. in stamps to Bulletin office.
N.B.—As The Bulletin, owing to the
enormous demand, for its Xmas Number, has
frequently been unable to fulfil late orders,
agents will please state their requirements
without delay.
The Bulletin
Tlio National Australian newspaper.
“ Australia for the Australians."
Proprietors : BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO.,
Limited,
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
AT 21 PITT-STREET, SYDNEY, NEW SOUTH WALES.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(payable ia advance, only).
Per Annum £lO 0
Half-yearly 0 12 6
Quarterly ... ... ... 0G 6
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Dimness Communications
to be addressed to William Macleod, Managing Director.
Literary Communications to be addressed to J. F.
Archibald.
The Editor will carefully read and acknowledge in the
“ Correspondence ” column all contributions submitted ■
whether in the form of Political, Social, or other Articles,
Verse, Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in
length, or say 3000 tvords, are specially acceptable),
Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper-Clippings. All
communications will be regarded as strictly confidential.
“ The Bulletin” will return all unavailable MSS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we
desire those sending MSS. to distinctly understand that
we are not responsible for the preservation or transmission
of such MSS.
NOTICE.
By sending direct loThe Bulletin Office Twenty Shillings
sterling—which you may pay by Post Office Order, One
Pound Note, or Stamps of any Australian colony—you
can have The Bulletin posted regularly to you every week
■for a year.
This offer is not open to residents of Sydney. In that
city The Bulletin is not delivered by mail, but is entirely
in the hands of our carriers, with whom we do not wish
to interfere.
Punishment—Caial and Corporal.
Pie P3ulleizoi.
SATURDAY, DECEMBER 0, 1890.
Editor Bulletin, —What is your argument in favour of
the abolition of the death penalty ? From,what I can see
you say that it does not act as a deterrent to crime. Well,
if the death penalty does not, what does? Vour argu-
ment would do away with punishment and gaols alto-
gether if carried to its logical conclusion. In fact, it
would do away with government itself. But there is no
need to go further. Capital punishment (loco, prevent
crime. How many thousands of men are there of whom
it can with perfect justice be said “ that the fear oft be
law keeps them honest? - ’ And if we admit tttat'snght
punishment prevents slight (comparatively) crimes, how
can we refuse to admit that heavy punishments will pre-
vent heavy crimes? I admit that in spine cases the mur-
derer or the debauchee itWs 'hot Hunk of the penalty
when committing the crime ; yet there must bgjMirfftrefls
who would for the’
stiingent punishmenUrtfaiting them. Fancy the state of
a country-t-bat would-five '-‘ three Tears."- for-a-tnurder.
And if you abolish the death penalty what do you propose
to substitute in its place ? Nothing that I know of that
would give a fraction of the satisfaction that the present
system has given. lam a young Australian and with you
look forward to a.great Southern independent Australian
Bepublic, but I do not wish to see crime made less easy,
or to have the lives of our citizens or the honour of our
women less protected. Up to the present we have shown
older countries that we know how to legislate. Our repre-
sentative system and our educational system are un-
rivalled in the world, and nowhere is the general intelli-
gence so high and the general prosperity so great as in
these Australian colonies. But once start weakening our
protection against crime, and our glory, instead of in-
creasing, will begin to wane. —Young Australian.
We give the foregoing protest in its entirety,
partly because it comes from one who calls
himself a “Young Australian,” and partly
by reason of its giving a fair synopsis of the
views held by many regarding capital
punishment. For the sake of convenience
it would be as well to answer in detail the
objections advanced—to answer them in
plain, every-day language, so that an
ordinary man or woman may understand the
position we have taken up from the
beginning, and which, so far, we have seen
no reason to abandon. If there were two
countries exactly equal in every respect,
with the single exception that, in one,
murder was punished with death,and, in the
other not punished at all, the assumption—
indeed, the certainty—is that (here would
be more murders in the latter than
in the former. Most punishments act
as deterrents to crime. But given four
countries, say, in the first of which boiling,
in the second burning, in the third hanging
(or other method of life-taking), and in the
fourth life-long imprisonment is the penalty
for deliberate assassination, there is abso-
lutely no reason to suppose that wilful
murder would be more common in the last
country than in the otheis. There was a
time —not quite Avithin the memory of living
men, but not very far beyond it—when the
first two methods of execution, as well as
breaking on the Avheel and other indescrib-
able modes, were in vogue. The science of
statistics is a child of this century ; but, so
far as researches have gone into the meagre
criminal records of preceding centuries,
there is good reason to suppose that the
murder-rate, according to population, has
rather diminished than increased by the
humaner modes of recent years. At all
events, this fact should never be for-
gotten —it is not so much the severity
of punishments as the certainty of discovery
that keeps men from crime. Imagine
two nations, in one of which crucifixion was
the murder penalty, while imprisonment for
life was the laav in the other. If but live
per cent, of the murderers were apprehended
in the former, Avhile sixty or seventy per
cent, were pretty sure to be arrested in the
latter, the murder rate would be high in
the crucifying land and low in the imprison-
ing one. This, then, is the cardinal fact to
be borne in mind when discussing a subject
of the present kind —it is the certainty of
discovery by means of a highly-efficient
police, rather than the barbarity of the pun-
ishment that tends to reduce crime of any
kind. Nor must it be forgotten that murder
is the only crime whose punishment is of the
same character as the offence. Therefore,
capital punishment is the most illogical of
penalties.
# # #
“If the death-penalty does not [deter
from crime], what does ?” says our corres-
pondent. Is it news to him to learn that far
into the present century the British criminal
code recognised over two hundred offences
for which hanging could be inflicted ? Did
this stop crime ? So far from that being the
case, it was a common and just taunt by
Home and Continental jurists seventy years
ago that, Avhile England loudly proclaimed
herself the freest of European countries, she
had more proportionate crime than other
lands, and hanged more people than all other
European countries put together. Had our
correspondent been alive at the time, and in
power, he would have consistently joined
with the Bench of Bishops in opposing the
repeal of the laws that made forgery a
capital offence as well as sheepstealing, shop-
lifting, poaching, and some hundreds of
others. “ If the death penalty does not
deter, Avhat does?” would have been his
logical comment before recording his vote.
The worst of it was that it did not deter.
Shops Avere lifted, names forged, hares
trapped, and housebreaking conducted on
far more scientific plans than since the larvs
Avere ameliorated and the police rendered
more efficient. Here, then, in the case of
minor offences, Ave have the indisputable
facts (a), that bloody laws did not diminish
certain offences; (?>) that humane laAvs,
coupled Avith a completer police system, did.
Is there any reason to suppose that,
in the case of murder, the same effect
Avould not follow on the same cause ? None
that avc can see. Besides, if hanging, which
in most cases is almost painless, is so
effective, Avhy should not breaking on the
Avheel or crucifixion, both of which are said
to be accompanied by much pain, bo more
effective-still ? To be consistent, theti, our
“Young Australian” should advocate the
return to these methods of death, as the pain
they occasioned would be far more deterrent
than the comparatively painless plan of
breaking the neck by hanging. Indeed,
when execution by electricity became the
law in Ncav York, some English conservative
journals, deplored the introduction of a
measure that Avould have but little effect in
suppressing crime as it promised to -guic-mr .
pain at,all,.
• #
“ Your argument Avould do away Avith
punishment and gaols altogether,”says our
correspondent:' This fiFshfious.”' It r roTfows“
from it that because Bomilly, Mackintosh
and Brougham said it Avas wrong to
hang for forgery, therefore forgers
should go unpunished. But it is pos-
sible to ■ punish a man without strang-
ling him. Again, suppose you strangle
the wrong man ? It has been done before
in numberless cases—U will be done again,
so long as witnesses and juries are human,
while judges and sometimes executives are
inhuman. To this, no doubt, “ Young
Australian ” would reply that a man more or
less matters very little, and that, as such
mistakes seldom occur, a person has to take
his chance. But, it appears to us, that, if
he happened to be the innocent man, his views
on the subject would undergo a material
change by the time he was pinioned and re-
quested to take his proper place in the proces-
sion. It would be little consolation either to
an innocent man or to his friends to be told
that a blameless person was seldom hanged,
and that, in his case, the mistake was un-
likely to occur again. It is remarkable
with what equanimity men hear of the
misfortunes of others. The same align-
ment applies to another essentially Aus-
tralian punishment—torture. If it is small
consolation to murmur over a man’s
dishonoured grave that he had been legally
murdered, it is scarcely more to whisper in
the ear of a wretch, Jimp and bloody from
(lie triangles, that another person should
have received the stripes. This brings us
to another phase of the subject—to a punish-
ment which, in some respects, is so closely
related to that termed “ capital,” that it
would be impossible to omit all reference to
it in an article such as tliis.
* # #
The punishment alluded to is that known
as corporal or, colloquially, flogging. What
appears to have escaped “ Young Austra-
lian,” is that any penalty which admits of
no reparation is wrong—intrinsically and de-
monstrably wrong. Under the Norman, Plan-
tagenet, Tudor and Stuart scoundrels, what
amends was there possible for the peasants
who were deprived ot their eyes or had their
bones crushed in the “ boot?” No one could
give back to them the organs that enabled
them to see God's fair world, or the sturdy
limbs that enabled them to enjoy it. It is
just the same with capital and corporal pun-
ishment in the Australia of to-day—in the
land of which our correspondent appears to
be so proud. Hang a man, and any future
sympathy with him or his is but mockery—
skin him, and it is much the same. It is but
two or three years ago that, for performing
a function which his judges and their forbears
had performed since Adam was ejected from
Eden, a wretched sailor was flayed in Syd-
ney ; while, for calling Moses names, a half-
daft chimney-sweep was skinned in Yass. It
is but yesterday that a Sydney magistrate
threatened to torture for common assault.
Does “Young Australian” know this, or,
knowing, justify ? Before returning to our
proper subject, that of “capital” punish-
ment, we shall be a little plain with him,
partly because it is our way, but chiefly on
account of his boast that “ up to the present
we have shown older countries that we know
how to legislate.”
* * *
We have, there is no denying it. But it
is principally by showing them not what to
follow but what to avoid. Hearken, “Young
Australian,” and all of your way of thinking.
America, Germany, France, England, and
Italy—we take them in the order of popu-
lation —contain some 220,000,000 of the
most civilised of mankind. In America the
lash is unknown except in one small State
(Delaware), where the Governor says it is an
unaccountable remnant of barbarism ; and
even in Delaware it is awarded but for one
offence—wife-beating ; in England (outside
of gaol-walls, where it is still retained for
disciplinary purposes—it is unknown except
for one or two peculiarly brutal (but not
sexual) crimes ; in the remaining Teutonic
nation, as well as in the two Latin ones, it
is unknown altogether. But in Australia—
particularly in New South Wales—it not alone
flourishes and is applied vigorously, but
shows every likelihood of having its range
extended to fresh offences in addition to the
few dozen to which it is at present applied—
betrays every promise, in fact, of reaching a
green old age. This means that while the
rascaldom of the best part of the civilised
world can be governed without torture, the
blackguardism of New South Wales cannot.
Hence, either the province’s ruffianism is
unique or the province’s methods are. It is
probable that “ Young Australian ” has never
been beyond Australia’s confines—possibly
never beyond those of his province. But it
is not nice when travelling abroad and
venturing on the vexed subject of torture
to be reminded with a smile and a shrug that
such methods might do for the convict spawn
of Australia but not for cultivated lands. If
we arc “ convict spawn ” there is no need to
proclaim it to the world by our saVage and
bloody legislation.
* # #
It is necessary to say a few words on this
branch of the subject. Up to 181(5, women
were publicly flogged in England ; so they
were in New South Wales. Byron speaks
of the trulls he saw shrieking at the cart’s
fail while he was preparing to embark on the
journey that resulted in “ Childo Harold. ”
■ Why has this tine old custom been discon-
tinjp.'d.b.ulli here and “4it,homo ” if effica-
cious ? Urn. public conscience "re-
volted againsUtlTC-1 orfuring’ of women in
public, and, ultimately, against the hang-
mg of* either men or women coram
popnlo. And before long—not, perhaps,
in Australia but in older lands—public
sentiment will revolt against strangling or
skinning culprits whether outside the gaol or
inside. A priori , the deterrent effects of
capital and corporal punishment should be
telling when seen by all. But experience has
proved the precise contrary to have been the
case. More pockets were picked, more men
garotted, and more women trampled in
the gutters during a public exhibition of
hanging and Hogging for pocket-picking
garotting, or assault than during any other
public display of whatever kind. These are
no random statements made to bolster up a
cause or a thesis. They are hard, indubit-
able facts vouched for by testimony which it
would be idle to question without question-
ing the testimony that established the death
of CLesar, or the Battle of Waterloo. What
do they teach ? This above all—that it i s
not the savagery of punishments, but the
certainty of detection, that keeps crime at
its minimum.
* * *
Our correspondent observes with ingenu,
ousness, “Fancy the state of a country that
would give three years for a murder.
And if you abolish the death penalty what
do you propose to substitute in its place?” It
is, really, a little irritating at this time of
day to have to answer questions like the
foregoing. Three years or less would have
been ample for some “murders ” for which
men have been sent to death in New South
Wales. Why three years, when natural
life could be awarded ? The man who would
hesitate to commit murder while death was
the penalty, but who would kill without
hesitation when life servitude was the law
has yet to be discovered. Of all the clap-
trap that has appeared on this subject there
is none so pitifully inane as this “What
would you substitute for hanging ?” What
course do other nations follow where the
death penalty is either entirely or practically
unknown ? Can no walls be made high
enough, cells strong enough, to confine a
person so that he may be found when
wanted ? At the present moment there are
murderers confined for life in New South
Wales gaols. Our “Young Australian”
would probably answer that, in the first
place, the State has been put to an unwarrant-
able expense in keeping and guarding
them for years ; and, in the second, that
they, are always liable to commit a fresh
murder, either of a warder or of a fellow-
prisoner, or to escape and kill one or more
persons outside. It would be better to have
hung them out of hand long ago, and so
have nipped their homicidal propensities, if
not in the bud, yet as near the bud as
possible. This argument, together with the
one which asserts that the death-penalty
deters more than any other, is the strongest
that can be brought forward in favour of
capital punishment. Both deserve examina-
tion.
* * *
To our mind, the latter— i.e., that the
death-penalty is the greatest preventive of
wilful murder —is by far the stronger of the
two, by far the strongest, indeed, of any that
can be adduced for capital punishment. If it
could be shown that, in a given community
with death as the reward for murder, the
assassinations averaged a hundred a year,
while in the same community, or in one
similar in every respect (if such a one could
be found), where life-imprisonment was the
penalty the murders averaged a hundred and
one annually, we would at once vote for the
retention of death as the - extreme punish-
ment. But on one condition only. It must
also be shown that while the death penalty
kept down the murders to the minimum, it
did not destroy the nation by hardening the
public conscience or by driving crime into
fresh channels. To explain a little more:
If, by hanging all who took life, the public
conscience or sentiment—call it what you
will was outraged and the populace
brutalised, as was the case when executions
and floggings were public and common, the
restriction of unlawful life-taking to its
minimum might be bought at too dear a price.
And, in saying that the undoubted tendency
of capital and corporal punishment in public
or in private is to indurate the national
conscience we challenge contradiction. But
it never has been shown that the prevalence
of either of these forms of punishment has
been successful in bringing to the lowest
point the offences for which it was pre-
scribed.
« # #
A point omitted by Young Australian—a
very important one to our thinking—is this :
He says nothing of the cases, so common in
England (50 years ago, and so instructively
present in New South Wales to-day, where
juries refuse to convict, although the evi-
dence, if not conclusive, is such that in the
ordinary affairs of life an average man
would not hesitate to be guided by it.
Why do the juries refuse ? Because
they are stupid, some say—because they
lean towards crime, say others. Both
sayings are grotesque in their irration-
ality. They refuse as their English brethren
anterior to 1830 did, because they know that
conviction may mean destruction to the
culprit—because, after conviction, recom-
mendations to mercy are unavailing—because,
whatever chance a culprit had of getting off
with an unstretched neck ora sound skin
when no appeal for mercy was made for him
to the Court, the very fact of appealing
would be certain to end in a broken spinal
column or an abraded cuticle.'-.. In vain the
J udge urges them to consider their oaths, and
chides them for presuming to inquire what
the sentence may be. Facts for them, law
for him. But New South Wales juries of
late have acquired an odd way of looking at
things. The province is full of free men
whose people were free years before the
progenitors of existing magistrates. So the


foreman of the jury looks out of corners
of his eyes and says “not guilty.” Then
the Judge, debarred of his hanging or his
flogging, forgets himself and flounders. He
forgets that he is a servant, and he flounders
still more. In a word, so far has the humane
public sentiment of New South Wales
advanced since the imposition of her criminal
code that the more the lash and the rope are
legalised the lower becomes the proportion of
convictions to committals. To be plain, a
certain percentage of offenders is let free to
prey upon society because colonial lawmakers
and magistrates still linger lovingly round
the triangles and the gallows, as if afraid to
take their places in the world’s procession
and join in the onward march of humanity.
* * *
This inability or disinclination to move
with the times is, indeed, the curse of de-
pendence. It took America a century of
freedom to cleanse her Statute-book from
the.foulness resulting from the undisturbed
reign of prince, prelate and peer. At one
time, convicts were sent in thousands to the
“Plantations,” so that there is no reason to
suppose that the criminal taint is stronger
to-day in Australia than in the United States.
Unfortunately, however, for us, if the bodily
taint is weak the mental is strong. Con-
victism has disappeared, but its spirit still
remains. This spirit can be seen in the pages
of our law books and heard In the speeches
of our legislators and the addresses of our
magistrates. It is doubtful if anything short
of "political independence will lay it for good.
The punishments which “ Young Australian ’
advocates so as to protect; the lives of citizens
and the honour of women have much to
answer for, not alone in allowing murderers
and ravishers to go free, but in enabling
many “astute women ” to make a first-class
living through the natural reluctance of men
to strip in presence of the scourger. As for
“ dimming Australian glory ” by abolishing
infernal punishments, it is but necessary to
say that the glory lost because no more men
were allowed to be choked or peeled would
leave the country none the worse.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
A Dead King.
Last week the cable announced that William
of Holland had gone to sleep with his fathers—
a circumstance which is lamentably rough on
William’s fathers —and the hair on which the
destinies of the Netherlands have hung for so
many years having broken, new complications
loom in the future. The Prince of Orange, son
and expectant heir of the deceased monarch,
died years ago of old age, drink, and disgust,
and now only a girl of tender years stands
between Holland and its manifest destiny-
absorption in the all-devouring German Empire.
The Dutch nation itself has no particular voice
in the matter, for the principle of monarchy is
that the people belong to the sovereign, and
when the sovereign dies they belong to the next
heir. If there is no direct heir, they belong to
whatever relative comes uppermost in the
scramble. Germany for the present receives a
portion of Luxembourg, and in consideration of
this concession it agrees to leave the rest of
Holland alone for the present, and when the
young queen conies to years of discretion
provided old William has not used up all the
available discretion of the family—there will
l>e a rush for her hand, and the rest of the
Dutch people will be the property of whoever
gets it. Possibly Albert Victor, of the con-
spicuous cuffs, may try his fortune and
absorb Holland in the British Empire,
and then there will be international
“complications,” and Germany will demand
another segment of the little kingdom as
“ compensation,” and Austria will skirmish
after a portion of Macedonia to pay her for not
interfering, and Russia will insist on some more
territory in Armenia by way of “ satisfaction.
But more probably some German prince with
six army corps behind him will bounce the pool
little Dutch queen into matrimony, and devour
the fair provinces of the Netherlands, and
should this not come to pass Holland will go at
last the way Hanover went, and the way all
small kingdoms must go, sooner or later. And
whichever way the kingdom may go the few
million inhabitants will be thrown in as an un-
jonsidered trifle of no special account. The
monarchical system takes no notice of mere in-
habitants. If it were possible for the copious
royal family of England to become extinct, then
the next heir to the Crown would bo found in
the imperial house of Germany, and according
to all existing law Australia would be an in-
tegral portion of Germany from that time forth,
quite irrespective of any views the Austra-
lian people might hold on the subject.
Even the right of formal protest is
not allowed to Australia in her piesent
situation j if the Parliament at London
were prepared to accept the situation then
this continent would have no. voice whatever in
the matter. Monarchy, no matter under what
limitations, is incurably vicious, because
it invariably assumes that the sovereign
has a status of his own apart from that
which is conferred on him by the people.
Its essential axiom is that any bloated
alien despot who chances, because he is the son
of his mother and presumably of his father, to
be next heir to a dead monarch, has an incon-
testable claim to take over a country and a
nation as the personal assets of the deceased,
and half the world’s history is made up of the
struv'des of successive races to resist the per-
sonal application of this great mis-principle. As
for abolishing the mis-principle itself, nine-tenths
of the world’s population has not even begun to
dream of such a possibility., Man has belonged
to somebody else so long that the idea of belong-
inf to himself is regarded as atheism and
anarchy. Even so-called “ Wars of Independ-
ence ” are generally only the expression of a
public desire that the nation shall become the
property of a king born at home instead of a
king born abroad, and when a nation has
resolved to be the property of somebody it is
hardly worth while to light about mere details.
«.
The Political Three-Card Trick.
Two weeks ago The Bulletin prophesied—in a
leading article with the above heading —the
way the Parses Government would go in deal,
ing with Mr. Traill’s Bill for the abolition
of plural voting, and last week the Parses
Government fulfilled that prophecy to the
letter. There is no particular merit—so far as
The Bulletin is concerned —in this circum-
stance ; the Parses Cabinet had either to take
a straight course or a crooked one, and no
Parses Cabinet ever took a straight course
within the memory of man. When Mr.
Traill’s measure came up in Committee the
followers and hangers-on of the great and un-
grammatical “Hi Ham” rose with an expres-
sion of pained surprise and talked it out, and
prominent among the reproachful voices came
the dissonant howl of Carruthers, who rallied
up the Government parasites on the ground that
an unprincipled member was endeavouring to
jump the Ministerial claim, and rob the Foreign-
trade party of the credit rightly due to it tor
the authorship of a great reform. Every mem-
ber present was, of course, well aware that Mr.
Traill’s measure was introduced long before
Parses’ Bill was heard of, that the One Man One
Vote principle had been derisively thrown out by
leaders of the Hew South Wales Freetrade Con-
ference, and that the Government had openly
recpiested Traill to withdraw his proposals
because it wanted to embezzle his project,
and pass it off as a thing that had been
festering in Parses’ brain for ages. If
Parses had accused Shakespeare of em-
bezzling the inspiration of “ Hamlet ” from the
solemn drivel of his “Murmurs of the Stream,”
it would have been a shade less absurd than the
charge levelled against the Democratic party of
stealing its own programme from its opponents,
and even the robust assurance of the father of
all political borrowers must have been put to a
severe strain under these ignominious condi-
tions. But the Foreign-trade majority, being
informed, contrary to the evidence of their own
senses, that the One Man One Vote Bill was a
Foreign-trade inspiration, and must, therefore,
be preserved from outside interference, prac-
tically snuffed out Mr. Traill’s proposals.
Then, as the next step, the old Foreign-trade
boss will push his Bill through its preliminary
stages, and reluctantly drop it for want of time
to bring the matter to completion, and when
the general election arrives—as it only will
when Parliament has run its full term —it will
find an aged political shuffler still labouring
manfully in a frantic effort to pass his great
measure, and at the same time to make sure
that it does not pass. Next he will appeal for
the vote of the Democracy because he tried to
abolish the plural vote of property, and he will
get, the vote of Property because he prevented
that same plural vote being abolished, and
should these tactics secure him another
lease of power, he will be guided afterwards
by circumstances. If he finds it possible to
spend the term of another Parliament in tre-
mendous, but unavailing, struggles to pass the
Electoral Bill, he will keep on struggling with
the unobtrusive vigour of Atlas holding up the
earth. And if, by any chance, he finds himself
getting too near success, the issue will be sud-
denly obscured by a gigantic project for annex-
ing Asia and extinguishing the term New South
Wales in order that the colony may be named
the Pacific Ocean, and for building a State
House 14,000 feet high with an inverted pyra-
mid in the back-yard, and establishing an
Imperial republic of despotic tendencies limited
by universal suffrage, the whole proceeding to
finish up with an exhibition of fireworks in the
evening. Something of this description always
happens when Parkes finds himself on the
verge of keeping any one of his many promises,
and then the old man fades away in a cloud of
dustand when the dust clears away the
country has generally forgotten what the pro-
mise was, and Sir Henry starts afresh by intro-
ducing a Bill for giving everything to everybody,
and abolishing things in general, and putting a
stop to circumstances at large.
—-—-
Mr. Stipendiary Abbott, of Sydney, had before
him last week a man charged with indecency.
The S.M. regretted that he had not another
Magistrate sitting with him, so that he could
order prisoner 48 hours’ and a flogging, but he
would send him to the Quarter Sessions, where
he would be liable to fourteen years’ penal servi-
tude— and then Mr. Abbott immediately allowed
this formidable offender bail, not in thousands,
but in two fifties ! Mr. Abbott is going away
for two months’ holiday. He has of late been
in a condition of health in which he certainly
could not be expected to discharge his magis-
terial duties with that calmness and freedom
from irritability which should ever characterise
the professional beak. The Bulletin notices
that he has of late on one or two occasions
talked pretty loudly about flogging people.
Have not the people of New South Wales suffi-
ciently recovered from lag-time influences to
see that if men are to be flogged, it should cer-
tainly only happen in accordance with the
deliberate findings of a judge and jury, instead
of in obedience to a summary decision in which a
magistrate afflicted by the peevishness of ill-
health possibly takes a chief part ?
It is proposed by a number of influential mem-
bers of the A.M.P. Society that the sum of
£2500 be voted to the ow of the late Mr.
Morrice A. Black, late chief actuary to that
great insurance office. This proposition has
been agreed to by the majority of the members
present at a special meeting in Sydney, but a
ballot, which will cost a lot of money, is to be
taken on the subject throughout the Australias.
As the late Mr. Black during his 22 years _of
service received an average salary of £100.) a
year, besides having a year and nine months’
leave of absence on full pay, and leaving behind
him a total nett estate of £12,388 in policies
and property, it is hard to see the special
grounds on which such a proposal can be justly
based. One thing is certain : When a ballot is
taken in such circumstances, those who uphold
the proposal to vote away the Society’s money
should concisely state their case in a circular
enclosed within the ballot-paper sent from the
head-office; while the objectors also should
have the privilege of making their statement
under the same cover.
Premier Munro is going on a “ teetotally ”
opposite tack to the extravagant Gillies. He
informed the young men who want to obtain
evening lectures, in connection with Melbourne
University, that it was useless to deputationise
him, as he would not appropriate the immense i
sum (£1000) required by the University Council
to meet the extra expenses of the Arts course,'
The poor devils who have to work for their
living, and who are consequently far better men
than those who don’t, have to pay not only for
themselves but for the sons of the rich—for the
fees from the slaves go to pay the daily
lecturers. Yet, it is a strange fact that the
men who work with their hands or their brains
for bread, and afterwards stud}' either for
degrees or purely for information, turn out
better men than those who scoop up the College
scholarships, and fight the wardens for taking
off hot breakfasts at eight o’clock.
Among the numerous aggravations inflicted
upon the rational newspaper reader the current
lengthy reports and comments on charitable
institutions are especially sickening. Every-
body knows that charity is simply a miserable
substitute wrung from the rich for rights
wrongfully withheld. Self-interest, if not
common decency, demands that the monopolists
of land and capital shall periodically dole out
enough to keep the beasts of burden from posi-
tive starvation. We now read that the homes for
the recipients of charity must on no account
remain situated in such prominent positions as
to draw public attention thereto, such social
sores must be concealed. Further, that it is unfair
that the land-owners of property in the neigh-
bourhood of Relief Depots should be denied
their rights to their unearned increments by
the depreciation in value of their allotments.
The feelings of the destitute themselves have
hitherto been cheerfully ignored, yet it certainly
is desirable that a few of these should appear
before the Royal Commission personally and in
their rags and hungry condition to tender their
experiences and offer opinions on these matters
wherein they alone are interested. It is not
cash gratuities that the pauper solicits, it is the
right to obtain access to natural opportunities
whereby he may be enabled to earn his own
subsistence.
♦
Now that the burst of public joy over the col-
lapse of Gillies has subsided, Victorians arc
beginning to consider the impossibility of doing
much better with James Munro. Radical im-
provement in the land laws, or a strict enforce-
ment of the regulations bearing upon building-
societies, &c., are not to be expected from a man
like Jimmy, who has grown old in promoting
companies and grey in grabbing land. Rightly
or wrongly, it has been the custom for years
past to snort at the mention of Muneo’s name.
He is a gentleman who travels along this vale
of tears with a temperance tract in one hand
and a syndicate prospectus in the other —too
much after the fashion of MiramS to be regarded
as a promising Premier. However, there is one
chance for Jimmy Munro to prove himself a
genuine article. Let him spare the country the
expense of loading up the political and “repre-
sentative ” gang with champagne on every pos-
sible excuse. The writer has heard the new Vic-
torian Premier denounce strong drink as the curse
of any country, and is now waiting to hear the
old lamb proclaim that all Government feeds
under his regime will have to be washed down
with lemonade. It is useless for Jimmy to
shout “economy” whilst the Government bill
for “ poison ” amounts to thousands a year, and
if he sanctions the presence of one black bottle
at a Cabinet-meeting his blessed Temperance
principles are outraged by himself, as Treasurer.
Also, if he lures land-sale innocents into buying-
allotments under the influence of bottled beer
there is no health in him. The country has its
eye on Munro. If he goes back upon his
doctrines, and allows the Lady Loch to be used
as a free floating Government pub, and, gener-
ally speaking, carries on like the unredeemed
Gillies, the country will hit him over the head
with a cold water bottle and bid him be gone.
The first duty of a leading public humbug is to
behave as sich.
——
The exploring expedition “to the unknown
parts of Australia,” projected by Sir Thomas
Elder, is likely to excite but the faintest pos-
sible interest outside a very small circle. The
cold, realistic monotony of the Australian in-
terior is pretty well known to everybody, and
the ground about to lie traversed has been
intersected by many routes, leaving nothing but
a few bare geographical details to be tilled in.
The days when Australian exploration awoke
the sympathetic thrill of romantic interest,
throughout the hearts of home-keeping men,
are past. No more will readers of the diary of
a modern explorer feel the same, glow that
penetrated Sturt’s gallant crew when, “ shot
out of the Morumbidgee,” they sat and gazed
in wonder on the broad and noble river
into which their impetuous course had hurried
them. The mystery of the heart of Australia
is one no longer, and the most we can hope to
learn will be the finding of some permanent
water and a few square miles of pastoral
country. The field of the proposed trip is
from Charlotte Waters on the telegraph-
line, in a south-westerly direction, cutting
diagonally the tracks of J. Forrest and E.
Giles, then north-west to the Weld Springs on
Forrest’s track, thence north-east to where
R. C. Gregory lost Sturt’s Creek in a flooded
flat. All this country has been trenched on by
many private parties as well as by the public
expeditions. By filling up the blanks left, the
proposed expedition may do useful, if some-
what tedious, work ; but it will be a mistake to
indulge in any high falutin enthusiasm in the
matter.
The Fire at Boss's Farm.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
The squatter saw his pastures wide
Decrease, as one by one
The farmers moving to the west
Selected on his run ;
Selectors took the water up
And wrought the squatter harm —
The richest land upon the flat
Was spoilt by Ross’s Farm.
Full many a scheme to shift old Ross
Had racked the squatter’s brains,
But Ross had got the stubborn blood
Of Scotland in his veins;
He held the land and fenced it in
And cleared and ploughed the soil,
And year by year a richer crop
Repaid him for his toil.
Between the homes for many years
The war did not relax,
For Black impounded Ross's stock,
And Ross impounded Black’s;
A well upon the lower run
Was filled with earth and logs,
And Black laid baits about the farm
To poison Ross’s dogs.
It was, indeed, a deadly feud
Of class and creed and race )
But, yet, there was a Romeo
And Juliet in the case;
And oft at eve across the flats
Beneath the Southern Cross
Young Robert Black was seen to ride
With pretty Jenny Ross.
There came at last a Christmas time,
With fear and ruin dire,
For many miles around the run
The bush was all on fire;
And when the shades of evening fell
The scene was grand and strange —
The hill-fires gleamed like lighted streets
Of cities in the range.
The cattle-tracks between the trees
Were like long crimson aisles,
And on a sudden breeze the fire
Would gallop twenty miles ;
Like sounds of distant musketry
It crackled thro’ the breaks,
And o'er the flats of growing grass
It hissed like angry snakes.
It leapt across the flowing streams
And raced o’er pastures broad,
It climbed the Hees and lit the boughs
And through the scrubs it roared ;
The bees fell stifled in the smoke
Or perished in their hives,
And with the stock the kangaroos
Went flying for their lives.
The sun had set on Christmas Eve,
When, through the scrub-lands wide
Young Robert Ross came riding home
As only natives ride.
He galloped to the homestead door
And shouted in alarm :
“ The fire is past the eastern spur,
And nearing Ross’s farm.
“Now, father, send the men at once,
And evil pay with good ;
Poor Ross’s wheat is all he has
To buy his children food.”
“ Then let it burn,” the squatter said ;
“ I’d like to see it done —
I’d bless the fire if it would clear
Selectors from the run.”
“ Go if you will ” (the squatter said),
“ You shall not take the men—
Go out and join your father’s foes,
And don’t come here again.”
“ I’ll not return,” young Robert cried,
His anger rising higher,
And then he turned his horse’s head
And galloped to the fire.
And there, for three long weary hours,
Half-blind with dust and heat,
Old Ross and Robert fought the flames
That neared the ripened’wheat.
The farmer’s hand was nerved by fears
Of ruin and of loss,
And Robert fought the creeping flames
For love of Jenny Ross.
But inch by inch the stubborn foe
Compelled them to retreat
Until they reached the narrow track
That ran abovei.be wheat ;
‘ The track is now our only hope,
There we must stand,” cried Ross.
“ For nought on earth can stop the flames
If once they get across.”
Then came a cruel gust of wind,
And, with a sudden rush,
The flames leapt o’er the narrow path
And lit the fence of brush.
“The farm must burn !” the farmer cried,
“ We cannot save it now,”
And down upon the blackened ground
He tossed the blackened bough.
But madly, in a rush of hope,
His heart began to beat,
For o’er the crackling fire he heard
The sound < f horses’ feet.
“Here’s help at last ” young Robert cried,
And even as he spoke
The squatter and a dozen men
Came bursting through the smoke.
Down on the ground the stockmen jumped
And bared .each brawny arm,
And tore green branches from the trees
And fought for Ross’s farm ;
And when, before the gallant band,
The beaten flames gave way,
Two grimy hands in friendship joined—
And it was Christmas Day.
HENRY LAWSON.


Recommended by doctors—Wolfe’s Schnapps.
If asked to drink, call for Wolfe’s Schnapps.
[?]
846 Macquarie-street North, Sydney, Dec. 3, 1890
My Dear Moorabinda,—
The “ Matrimonial ad.” business is nearly played out
and the “ advanced ” young man who only wants to “ view
matrimony ” is beginning to state Ills reprehensible feel-
ings in plainer English every day. Says a S.M. Herald
proclamation:—
TITOUSEKEEPER wanted, by young man ; young
- LJ - Person, as above. State age, &c., T.M.0.,
Redf’n P.O.
The capable creature of 40 with the knowledge of ten
cookery-classes up her sleeve needn’t reply to this. All
“ young man,” in the romantic flush of youth, gasps for
is a languishing look and a pink wrapper against a back-
ground of 18 birthdays, and whether this beauteous being
throws the cold joints into the ash-heap and dusts the
furniture with his silk handkerchiefs matters not at all to
T.M.O. He will only begin to be sorry Tottie was so
reckless with the beef when he goes through his accounts
two years hence.
And, apropos to “ads.” at which one looks sideways,
here is another sample from the complaisant S.M.H. ;
T AVENDER BAY, North Shore.—BOAßD and
Residence by young lady, share r’m. Moderate,
Herald.
Comparing the wording of these waifs of sentiment it is
, again made evident that men are really ever so much more
bashful than women.
An instance of the sentiment always aroused by a
representation of “Romeo and Juliet” was observable
recently in Sydney D.T. ;
■jITATRIMONY;—Young Gentleman 21, fair, romantic
disposition, permanent situation, wishes to
correspond with a youmr lady about 21; none but
genuine need apply. Romeo, Post-oifioe, Ashfleld.
Poor Ashfield Romeo ! The Brown-Potter clutch raised
visions in his ardent soul that led him to rush into print,
and when Juliet’s windmill embrace surrounded her
choice the young man from Ashfleld had drafted his
requirements on the margin of his programme, I’ll bet.
One always appreciates the indefatigable wherever met
with, and your Sappho congratulates the N.S.W. Women’s
College enthusiasts over the state of the subscription-
list. Only £978 3s. Bd. is needed to make up the fund
stipulated for before “Guv’ment” will join in, and the
Committee have over four months to collect it. There
are rumours of further amateur entertainments for the
benefit of the cause. The fund now totals £4021 17s. 4d.
including promises.
Apropos to amateurs. At a recent rendition of some
dismal drama in a Northern N.S.W. country town, when
the wounded hero crawled upon the stage with the blood
streaming from the wound which one hand convulsively
pressed, from under that hand fell a ripe prickly pear,
whence the hero had been vigorously squeezing the
gore. And then the audience began to cnioy themselves-
Considering that the Sydney Amateur Operatic Society
made their diibut in “Les Cloches de Corneville” at the
“Standard” last week, your Sappho dips her pen in
raspberry Jam to compliment that numerous aggregation
on the dressing, staging, and grouping of the opera. The
attire of everybody concerned was really good, and if the
chorus looked like as if they had laid on the blush with
a broom, and if some of the gentlemen supes had
forgotten to wad above their ankles, they were only still
more reminiscent of the “ perfeshional ” after all. The
orchestra was good, too, the fiddles only going hopelessly
out of time at the fag-end of the show on the secend
performance ; and regarded from the standpoint of light
and color and row, the opera was quite a success. As for
the principals, Miss Ed. Deane made a lively “ Serpolette,”
and “ Grenicheux ” on the second evening was a daisy
to look at in pink tights and a striped upper garment
like a lolly “ humbug,” hut Mr. Stanley Armstrong as
“Gaspard ” was the twinkling star of the evening, getting
an enthusiastic “ name ” call at the close of the second
act. The proceeds of the show will be handed to the
Girls’ Friendly Society.
If local lady philanthropists gaspingly await an outlet
for their heuevolence t let them go round with a cookery-
hook, not a flower-pot, and teach ignorant, thriftless
wives how to boil a potato into neither wax nor smash,
and how to make attractive cheap dishes in place of the
watery “stoo” and half-burnt chops that for ever indi-
gestibly adorn the bill of fare. It may be objected that
the ministoring angels don’t know how, any more than
their victims, in this case, but that objection can soon be
overcome in the case of anyone not unwilling to soil her
hands. But there ! what is the use of advocating utility
against beauty? It is far nicer to be met going down the
Block with a charity smile and a basket of roses than to
he hidden away in a squalid kitchen teaching some untidy
creature how to make curry.
The all-pervading cookery-class is beginning to be eyed
askance by the legislator who has anything to do with
public schools. At almost every spree in connection with
these the legend runs—“ Refreshments, prepared by the
School cookery classes, were served,” and one can imagine
the sinking feelings of the martyr member when the
glassy potato, the coddled turkey, the soggy sponge-coke,
and the flabby jelly of maiden effort become eternal
features in the festivities. And who can blame him?
Everybody gushes about the advantages of cookery
classes, and everybody leaves the “ proof of the pudding ”
to, 'say, his mother-in-law.
Lady Carington has gone ; vanished tearfully into the
beyond, as it were, hut ere she went she advocated a
scheme which, if carried out, will lead to steel boiler-
shape hats and iron umbrellas being the only local wear.
A gushing article in S.M.H. explains things. It says:—
Lady Carington herself, in a last request, has answered
us. When forwarding her donation for a horticultural
prize she has asked that, if po<sihlc, that prize shall he
given, wholly or in part, for window-gardening in the city
of R.i dney.
Upon which the “Lily Window-Gardening Association”
is suggested, the members of which shall go round
amidst the top stories with death-dealing pots full of
double geraniums, sunflowers, and other cheap and top-
heavy ebullitions of nature, which they will place on
the window-sill of Poverty, with instructions to carefully
weed and water. No doubt a flower on a city window-
sill - especially the window-sill of a God-forsaken city like
London—has a certain artistic influence, hut in the public
interest, your Sappho hastily submits that the association
ought not to he encouraged. Flower-pots on the sills are
very poetical until you receive one on the cerebrum, and
the facility with which they tumble 100 ft. and block a
tall hat, quite a foot out of the vertical line of descent,
make them a dangerous method of elevating the
“ masses.” In p aris, sill flower-pots were at one time
suppressed, because they were handy weapons of offence ;
and the temptation to drop one on to the head of an
enemy or a “pleeceman” might prove too much for the
Sydney slums.
f The three days’ audit of the pupils of Herr and Madame
Charbonnet-Kellcrmann began on 29th ult. at the
V.M.C.A. Hall, when a family complimentary “ come one
come all!” sort of crowd filled the hall to the stairs. With
the exception of one pretty girl in heliotrope silk with
gigot sleeves and a Tosca hat, all the pupils wore white,
cap a pie, giving the stage rather the appearance of a
confirmation service, and Madame Keliermann’s biscuit-
silk and forget-me-nots was worn in a Frenchy way. The
hill was long and unimpressive, and though it was cer-
tainly “ wonderful ” to hear babies tackling Beethoven,
still, unless you are personally wrapt up in the infants
you can’t help yearning for something to yawn behind
occasionally, and a welcome professional variety was lent
to amateur monotony by Madame Kellermann playing a
little thing from Chopin in her usual brilliant style, while
Signora Fabris received a recall and a bouquet for her
aria with ’cello trimmings. Apropos to bouquets, people
ought carefully to choose the flowers they hand on to
platforms. Several of the girls received bundles of rub-
bish which would have disgraced a dust-bin.
And, sphakin’ of vigitibles, as the Italians gracefully
have it, I am told that when Lady Hallo had fiddled
seraphically one evening during the recent season, a
Sydney “ professional ” advanced pompously and handed
up with all the “business” possible a scrubby little
basket with its ears tied up with dingy ribbons and filled
with a floral miscellany that looked as if it had been
gathered in the dark. Lady H. took it up gingerly, and
when she reached her dressing-room she placed it deli-
berately on the floor, and—the story says she jumped on
it sixteen times, waving her fiddle like a battle-axe;
anyhow, it was discovered in a shockingly smashed-up
condition next morning.
The wedding of Miss Mary Gore (Mrs. W, B. Mitchell’S
sister) and Mr. Harry Holdship, second son of Mr. George
Holdship, of Auckland (N.Z.), happened at romantic
St. Mark’s, Darling Point, on 24th ult. The bride, who
was sacrificed by her brother-in-law, wore ivory-white
chiffon hand-embroidered with tufts of silk, picture hat
in drawn net and marabout feathers, her brace of brides-
maids (Miss Gore and Miss Mary Sutton) in cream and
vieux rose delaines with black silk lace hats and pink
roses. The wearisome “ reception and breakfast ” which
signalises all such occasions was held at “Carthona,**
after which Mr. and Mrs. Holdship departed for a Mel-
bourne honeymoon.
And, speaking of weddings, reminds me that no fewer
than five “sassiety” engagements are now public pro
petty. Mr. “Dick” Windeyer is to marry the accom-
plished daughter of a London medico. A much-widowered
legal widower with sticks of money, after whom all the
girls have been looking since his last wife died, despite
his silvery-hued hair, lias annexed a willing May, upon
whom he has settled a stunning portion already. Miss
Agnes Suttor, daughter of Mr. R. J. Suttor, is engaged to
Mr. Bose, manager of a station up East Maitland
way. Mr. Rothe, of “ Fiona,” Double Bay, and Miss
Oridge, of Goulburn, are also pledged to discover whether
marriage is a failure or not; and Miss Louie Read)
daughter of Mr. James Read, “ Wahgunyah,” and Mr.
Langdon Miller close the list of the matrimonially-doomed
for this issue,
“ Frou Frou ” was staged in a sudden, fitful way at
Sydney Royal on 29th ult., but the Potter had time to
ransack her wardrobe and come forth in special glories in
the middle acts of the pathetic picture of feminine frailty
though why she didn’t dress Watt-Tanner too isn’t
apparent. In the second act —the act where the willowy
Gilberte hangs herself over a chair-back and laughs a
hoarse, deep, unexpected cackle that makes your flesh
creep—her gown caused a well-known artist who sat
behind me breathing whisky on the back of my neck to
give a deep, soulful “ ah,” expressive of soothed suscepti-
bilities. The trained over-dress and elbow-sleeves were
of crushed strawberry watered velvet over an under gar-
ment of flesh-pink silk veiled in white net bordered with
gold galon. In the second part of the act a somewhat
paper-pattern garment is worn in pink silk covered with
pink tulle and touches of pink passementerie, balloon
sleeves of Spring green gauze powdered in gold spangles,
yellow velvet opera-cloak bordered with white swansdown.
In this act the Countess de Cambri (Emma G wynne) wore
a neat visiting dress of apricot-tweed with Figaro bodice
and shawl pattern design. In the third act Mrs. Potter
wore a beautiful dress—the bodice and train of white
brocade with white velvet stripe; jupe and lace, the
waist bound about with a yellow silk scarf; tight fitting
white sleeves with loops of yellow ribbon from shoulder
to waist; the shoulders having epaulettes of brown fur, an
arrangement of old gold lace about the neck and a girdle
of gold cord and tassels finishing off the splendor very
effectively. In the fourth act the leading lady wore a
cinnamon-brown woollen gown, with puffs round the
elbows and shoulder gables of brown velveteen £cru
chiffon fichu and lace to her knuckles, and waist-spanner
of brown and gold guipure braid. But why does the
Brown-Potter grasp her petticoats in front and haul them
almost to her knees when she pursues anybody across the
stage? This skirtal eccentricity is only permissible when
the patient has No. 2 feet and is negotiating a mud-
puddle.
Miss Myra Kemble has leased a house in Macquarie-
street North, Sydney—No. 365. The furnishing is in the
hands of a well-known Sydney firm, who expect to have
things “ homey” in a very short time. Myra’s admirers
are mostly responsible for the bric-a-brac. It is a great and
economical thing to be a public idol, isn’t it?
Lieutenant-Governor Sir Alfred Stephen, with his
family, will shortly vacate hot and dusty Sydney for the
shades of Sutton Forest. They will occupy the vice-regal
residence, of course. When you come to look at it, it is
a great and economical thing to be a Lieutenant-Governor,
too.
And, apropos to things gubernatorial—the wife of a
Sydney Parliamentary Minister has received a gushing
letter from Lady Carington, mostly referring to the
children, and saying that those pale-haired, pale-faced,
well-behaved little solemnities ceased to encore their
meals after leaving Adelaide, and that the party generally
were experiencing a delightful feeling of 1 oing off the
chain for the first time in five weary years Only, of
course, Lady C. did not express it in that way. :•
The death of Mrs. Morehead, wife of lion. B. D. More-
head, ex Premier of Queensland, which occurred at the
Royal Hotel, Sydney, on the 28th inst, seems doubly sod,
happening, as it did, at the outset of a holiday trip to
Europe, for which berths had been secured on the Aus-
tral. Mrs. Morehead intended paying a visit to her
mother in the country before leaving Australia, and was
to have set out on the day she died. The family will
return to Queensland.
The oily Believer who sat in his pew chuckling over his
“ hand.” in re “Carbine,” and meekly putting threepence
in the plate held out by the devotional deacon whose
coal-shares were steadily going up, must have blushed ail
over his bald head when the “ officiating priest” read the
Pastoral letter of the Primate, on a recent Sunday. For
Bishop Smith (who is no relation of mine, remember,)
simply begged for cash. “The (Anglican) Church,” he
said, “ needs more systematic support. . . . The
income was £650 less than the receipts of last year.”
Which his Grace attributed blandly and blindly to “ the
wet;” “absence of offertories at confirmation services
“the late strike”—to anything hut the real reason—viz.,
that the gate is poor because the houses are thin. The
men don’t go to church at all, being utterly indifferent
to the voice of a class which is not sufficiently virile to
command their respect; and, as to the women, many of
whom do attend church, for one reason or other, they are
too close-fisted to help the plate much, and so devote
their very smallest change to the spread of the Glad
Tidings.
The fact of the Sydney Women’s Literary Club holding
their inaugural “conversazione” on the evening of the
day on which the late Professor Stephens was interred,
could not fail to cast a shadow over the affair, and
several guests omitted to attend under the impression of
a postponement, since the Club is somewhat of a ’Varsity
interest. All the wits stopped at home, evidently, and
the proceedings (the circumscribed Temperance Hall was
the scene of action) were faintly suggestive of a ’samina-
tion in a suburban school. Though hilled as a
“conversazione,” the entertainment included gaspy
recitations, pianoforte soli, warhlings, and a very
moderate amount of “ conversazione” of the elementary
sort, when your adversary asks you a question and you
endeavour to answer it and feel deeply grateful, when the
company say, “Hus-s-h!” and a lanky youth arises to
melodise and save you from further mental wear and
tear, till the next awful gap. But though the soiree was
such a frost, it is soothing to know that the Club was the
first to recognise the symptoms. Indeed, one despondent
member took another despondent member on one sid e
and remarked that it was “enough to DO for us.”
The grand vocal and orchestral concert organized by
the ladies of Sydney to pay off the liabilities of the
non-paying orchestral concert season just concluded, A
billed to happen at the Centennial Hall on 11th inst. The
committee is influential and energetic, with Mrs. Burdekin
as President and Mrs. Andrew hon. sec., and a bumper
house is anticipated. Signora Antoinetta Link will make
her re-appearance at this concert after her European
tour. Hazon will wield the baton.
M. Chaperon, a noted vigneron of Minto, recently gave
a dinner-party and ball in honour of his niece’s birthday
—Mademoiselle Eva Chaperon is a noted beauty— which
was attended by all the elite of the neighbourhood.
I hear that at a certain ladies’ club lately, when “ Her
Excellency ” sent a return letter of thanks in reply to one
written by the club’s secretary, such a “ pounce ” took
place for the holy writ that it was torn into bits in a
second, each bandit seizing all she could, while the genius
who grabbed the autograph—one of the private secre-
tary’s most successful official forgeries—actually danced
a polka on the sofa. Which somehow reminds me of th e
lover who was wont to kiss the backs of the stamps on his
billets-doux because she had licked them, until one day
he saw her give the letter to the nigger to stamp, when
ail his young enthusiasm fell of a heap.
Yours affectionately,
SAPPHO SMITH.
The sentence, “Pack my box with five
dozen liquor jugs,” has been found to contain all
the letters of the alphabet, as well as important
instructions to the servant.
Scene—fashionable theatre, in America.
Tough-looking Customer (to box-office keeper):
“Do you pass the profesh ?” “Yes, sir; but,
pardon me, you are not in the profession, I think.”
T.L.C. (bringing his leg-of-mutton fist on to the
counter) : “ I’ll have yer to know that I am under-
study for J. L. Sullivan.”
The curtain finally dropped upon the
closing scene of the Newcastle cause cilehre Martin
v. Arnott, on Saturday night last, when the com-
mittee decided to hand over the money that
had been collected for the deluded maiden from the
public to the girl herself, which, with the £3OO
already given her by certain friends, makes a
handsome compensation, so far as money can com-
pensate, for one false step. Mr. J. A. Gorrick,
the solicitor who so ably conducted the case for the
girl without fee or reward, is to be presented with
a handsome illuminated address from the com-
mittee. The local press, as usual, keeps a discreet
silence on all matters affecting the morals of lead-
ing residents.
From the central Queensland distilleries
there flows a perennial stream of rum, for which
there is an enormous local and export demand.
Within four weeks of it leaving the still this tan-
glefoot is retailed across the bars of Bundaberg,
Brisbane, and many minor centres, besides being
shipped wholesale on the “ blackbirders ” which
“recruit ” the niggers in the South Pacific. It is
this or a similar product which drives so many of
the Government Agents mad, and which is re-
sponsible for so many of the frequently-reported
bloodthirsty outrages of the South Sea Islands.
Since The Bulletin mocked at Melbourne
Age for printing such miserable cant as “we
cannot be asked to seriously believe that
Parnellism still remains enshrined in the hearts
of its devotees,” that “radical,” broad-minded
pennyworth has made a feeble attempt to despise
its own hypocricy. The leader in last Saturday's
Age (the remark applies equally to the leader in
last Saturday's Augus) might have been written
by a man who had previously swallowed The
Bulletin's “Plain English ” ideas on “ Parnell-
ism and Divorce,” and found it good food for the
brain. “At present,” said the second Age
article, “the cases of Sir Charles Dilke and Mr.
Parnell show conclusively that no man who could
not have gone in quest of the Holy Grail will
be allowed fo serve his country in high office. . .
If the Irish case for Home Rule had any value six
weeks ago it sin ely ought not to be sacrificed to
the consideration that one indispensable man has
been fatally frail’’—fatally meaning that he had
been found out. Anon the Age (like the
Augus, again) goes on to remark that Nelson
was giddy, and the Royal Family has had its
lapses—in short, the Syme oracle practically
supplies a strong antidote to its poisonous rot
of the previous week. But neither the Age nor
Augus comments upon the fact that it has devoted
a column or so to writing itself down one of two
things—a rash ass or a designing humbug.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Theatre Royal “The Silver King,” •
Her Majesty's “Merry Wives of Windsor."
Criterion “Doctor Bill.”
Cyclorama Gettysburg.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK,
Princess’s “The Gondoliers.”
New Bijou “ The Jilt.”
Theatre Royal “Arrah-na-Pogue."
Opera House “Madame Angot.”
Alexandra “For Love and Life."
The popularity which Mrs. Potter has
attained with a section of her Australian audiences
was mainly built up by her appearance in new
plays and her avoidance of characters recently
impersonated by capable performers. Now her
theatrical reputation, sadly shattered by the
ineptitude of her Kate Hardcastle, has been
wholly undermined by her attempt to handle the
variformity of Frou-Frou. Never were her broad
enunciation, coarse intonation, lack of repose
chin-jerks, and angular movements more irrita-
ting y in evidence. The authors’ Gilberte is, at
all times, a lady, but in the hands of the Potter
she became hoydenish when she should have been
arch, affected, self-conscious, and giddy when she
should have been bashful or modest, rude
when she should have been indifferent, im-
pudent when she should have been con-
temptuous, and simply noisy when power
and passion were required. Kyrle Bellew’s
Sartorys did not come well out of the com-
parison with that of Titheradge, and was,
without doubt, bis worst Sydney perform-
ance. He dressed the part badly, altogether
failed to give it the weight, dignity and polish
which it demands, and was only once effective—
that when he confronts his faithless wife in her
Venetian retreat. Moreover, his gait, reminiscent
of the strut of a feather-legged, long-spurred
rooster, though not displeasing when displayed in
classic or mediaeval costume, is distinctly at
variance with modern garb. All the other parts,
especially Louise, Brigard and De Valreas, were ill-
cast and abominably played. Even when the brief-
ness of rehearsal and unsuitability of Sydney Royal
for the representation of sucha play werecqnsidered
as palliatives, the whole show was so feeble that
even the critics who had hitherto most stoutly
stuck to P. B. k Co. were compelled to be mildly
reproachful. Yet the S.M. Herald, a paper that
has stood by Mrs. Potter through good and evil
report, out-slobbered all its previous slobberings
by devoting the best part of a column to her un-
qualified glory. The tenor of it may be imagined
from the following quotation : “ Her Frou Frou
is entitled to rank with that of Sara Bernhardt,
and in some particulars it is a better performance
than that of the great French actress.” Whew!
To make matters worse, the version of Meilhac
and Halevy’s play was the worst that has
ever come under our notice. Bold assertion had
taken the place of delicate suggestion, some of the
situations were weakened and several of the
speeches lost significance by transference to other
characters than those originally designed to give
them utterance. “David Garrick ” was revived on
Tuesday night, “She Stoops” on Wednesday, and
“ La Tosca ” will be played to-night (Thursday)
and to-morrow night. The two stars then pro-
ceed to give a series of dramatic recitals at New-
castle, Maitland, Ballarat and Adelaide ere de-
parting for India accompanied by the faithful
Twinning. Then they intend to produce “Hero
and Leander” in London. “Down went
M’Ginty,” &c.
* # * *
When the New Garden Theatre (N.Y.)
was opened with “Dr. Bill,” the seats were
auctioned for £ISOO. Judging from later reports,
however, the piece has not been so successful
there as at Sydney Criterion, where the business
of last week was the largest ever done in the
house, excepting during one week of the Essie
Jenyns’ season, which was supplemented by a
matinee. The somewhat dull ending has been lit
up by the rc-entrance of Patfie Brown still
afflicted by St. Vitus, and the curtain now falls
while the entire company are doing the kangaroo-
dance. But it is the spiciness of the second act
that fetches them; especially the highly-
suggestive situation where the young dude is
locked-upin a dark bedroom, as he thinks with a
mash, but in reality with a friend's wife, who
takes him for her husband, who is locked-up in a
shower-bath with his damp mother-in-law, while
the supposed mash and the fatlier-in-law are
fishing-np the keys of the locked doors from the
depths of their spinal regions, where they had
been plunged as a cure for fainting fits and
apoplexy. With “5.R.0.” at every entrance,
even on Monday evening, “Dr. Bill” looks like
running up to Christmas. Then, it is said, the
fair Myra intends touring with it. Wo should
advise her to be careful. Ansons, Taylors, Wards,
Browns and Broughs don’t grow on gum-trees;
and in less capable hands the eccentric medico
might prove a bitter pill.
* * * *•
“ The Merry Wives of Windsor ” is doing
good business at Sydney Her Majesty’s. The
wives are perfectly safe in the hands of Kate
Bishop and Watts-Phillips, and the swash-
bucklerism of Pistol, the fiery-nosed alcoholism of
Bardolph, and the spiteful rascality of Nym are
cleverly depicted by Messrs. Sweeney, Whyte, and
our old friend Burford. The old procuress and go-
between, Mistress Quickly, is played brightly,
albeit she looks over youthful, by Mabel Tracey.
Joe Tola.no, as Rugby, makes good bricks without
straw. The host of A. Rigby is full-voiced,
round bellied, and altogether satisfactory, and
Bessie Rignold and Arthur Greenaway have
nought to do but look beautiful—an end to which
they were specially constructed —as the lovers,
Anne and Fenton. But “Bill” Rignold is the
Alpha and Omega, the top, bottom and sides of
the production.
* * m *
The most effectively tragic incident of the
P. B. season took place on the last night of “ Hero
and Leander,” which classic nudity was with-
drawn prior to previous announcements in order
to allow of the staging of “ Camille ” on Friday.
The principals had just retired, after taking a call
at the close of the first act, when John Payne, a
25-year-old jack-tar from H.M.S. Orlando —who
had apparently come to the theatre principally to
reproach one of the Paphian sisterhood, who, it is
alleged, had jilted him after borrowing all his
earnings, £35 —bounded from the fifth row of stalls,
over the orchestra and footlights, on to the stage.
Having attained that evil eminence, he quickly
hauled out a derringer, thegiftof the faithless fair,
shot himself in the pit of the stomach and foil in
most picturesque fashion on the prompt side of
the stage. Only a tiny report was heard, a small
puff of smoke seen in the auditorium, and most
of the audience thought Payne’s fireworks were
part of the play, until his mate clambered on the
stage air! removed him with the assistance of


is not a photograph, nor a photo, a ghost— but a good photo, is a
true reflection of the original. For high-art photos, go to the
London Palace of Art, 10 Park-street, Sydney. Country photographers’ work from developement
to completion executed at lowest prices. Bromides a speciality, Staff of artists kept tor working up.
A. GHOST
The Italian residents of Australia have
formed a league and appealed to their Government
to make arrangements such as will prevent Italian
single men from being engaged for Queensland
sugar-plantations at low wages.
Mr. J. H. Hunt, artist, of Norwich
Chambers, Sydney, has just completed a half-
length, life-size portrait of that mild and amiable
veteran of diplomacy, Sir John Robertson. It is
suggested that the design for the frame should be
of champagne bottles, separated by swear-words,
picked out with Cabbage Garden ornamentation.
Notice to Advertisers
and others.
Owing to the unprecedented demand for adver-
tising space in the Xmas Edition of The Bulletin,
we obliged to decline any further
advertisements for that particular issue.
Kyi'le Bellow, who obtained a doctor from the
audience. Then most of the ladies left, despite
the assurance of Leander that the man was not
seriously injured, and the performance would pro-
ceed as usual. There is a rumour afloat that it has
been cabled to England that a man has shot him-
self on the stage at Sydney Royal because a certain
great actress refused to return his love ! The
unfortunate man, at the time of writing, lies at
the Sydney hospital. The bullet, it is said, is
embedded in his liver and he is suffering great
pain.
* * * *-
Despite an effort made in the N.S.W.
Assembly to compel him to eat, Jacques Ibbot,
the starving bag of bones from Bondi, now too
weak to stand on his feet, may be expected to
conclude his fast this (Thursday) evening, when
a big crowd will attend to see him partake of his
first meal. Manager Wyburd has, we are in-
formed, taken a lease of the premises, and his
next novelty will be, it is said, Capt. Jorgensen’s
ocean-boat, the Storm King.
iff * % *
The contest between Swordsmen Jennings
and Donovan did not come off at Bondi Aquarium
last Saturday, these showmen declining to com-
pete because the spectators were not sufficiently
numerous to make the gate-money largely re-
munerative. Other novelties, however, were
substituted and Manager Wyburd, who was
cheered by the audience, gave tickets for the suc-
ceeding Saturday’s show to all who were dissatis-
fied. Last Sunday’s concert was largely patronised,
rfc $$
The first social evening of the Coogee
Palace Aquarium Club will be held in the
grounds at Coogee on Friday night, when special
trams will be run to and from the grounds. The
innovation is likely to be a big draw on warm
summer nights. On Saturday, Mr. Corbett, the
swimmer, will be accorded a benefit, when a big
programme will be gone through. In future,
every Wednesday night will be devoted to dancing.
$ « « 4*
Johnny Toole, who, when last heard of, was
playing in Auckland, should have opened at
Sydney Royal on Saturday, but can’t get to
Australia in time, and so the management have
decided to play “The Silver King,” in order to
fill the gap till pantomime time. Lawrence
Cautley, the late importation, plays Wilfred
Denver, Ed. Sass will be Spider, J. R. Greville
Jaikes, and Hans Phillips, Corkett; the other
parts will be filled by members of the about-to-be
disbanded Potter-Bellew company.
** * »
Boucicault’s sporting comedy, “ The Jilt”
—handsomely mounted, and for the most part ex-
cellently played at Melbourne Bijou —shows the
author at his best and worst. Its main reef of
serious interest gets pinched out, and its charming
comedy conceits are associated with sporting
notions so preposterous that the story, leaving its
last vestige of reality upon an impossible race-
course, loses all claim to sober consideration. A
little more attention to petty detail might have
won for “ The Jilt ” the popularity which Bouci-
cault expected for this literary pet of his declining
years. It failed because he chose to flaunt his
ignorance of racing in the face of the public,
whilst at tire same time professing to appeal to
their intelligence with a high-class play. “Flying
Scud,” which was at least sensational in its
absurdity, didn't challenge the test of technical
criticism, but “The Jilt” cannot avoid the
necessity of being weighed in the sporting balance
and found wanting. Even before the farcical
“Marquee—Overlooking the Racecourse”
scene is arrived at sundry laws and customs of the
turfy world are recklessly outraged. A, gentle-
man jockey and part-owner of an intended
winner of the Liverpool Grand National
goes prowling round country houses with
his racehorse at his heels, because he can’t
trust it out of his care. And this “dead bird,”
which he fixes up at the nearest pub. whilst he
goes mashing an heiress, is supposed to be in full
tr lining all the time. Another stroke of insanity
takes the form of a racing commissioner and
money-lender, who carries business cards inscribed
with announcements like “odd*given or taken.”
It certainly appears that this genius is a “ broker, ”
but the author foolishly represents him as a downy
blackleg, instead of a callow amateur. An old
lady horsetrainer is possible enough, but the idea
of her daughter winning a steeplechase (the Grand
National, presumably) in her ordinary riding-
habit is as monstrous as the actual spectacle of
owner and trainer seeing the race from a distant
tent, where two jockeys in their silks have been
making love until the race is about to start. Yet
“The Jilt ” must be taken seriously, or not at all.
It is at times pathetic and often brilliantly-humor-
ous. It shows how badly a great writer needed an
increase of his store of knowledge by conversing
with a stable-boy for ten minutes.
* * #
Titheradge, although weak in his brogue
and unhappy in jockey garb, lands Myles O’Hara
an easy winner from Mrs. Brough, who manages
the part of Kitty Woodstock with a light hand.
Miss Enson, as the converted jilt, is very good in
a, jerky way, and Miss Romer is an absolutely
life-like presentment of the trainer’s widow— busy,
fussy, simple-minded, but primed with horsey
lore. A Duchess of Montrose may have racing
written all over her red face, but a North country
trainer’s wife seems born to take the chair at a
Dorcas meeting. Everybody else assists to main-
tain the B. and B. traditions, except Miss
Seccombo, who gives one but a very faint im-
pression of a girl likely to win the Grand
National, over four miles of rough going,
«« » «
“The Gondoliers” goes on as usual at
Melbourne Princess’, and the new contralto, Miss
Elsie Cameron, sang the small part of the Duchess
of Plaza-Toro in promising style on Saturday
night. As the house was absolutely packed, it
looks though “Marjorie,” with Bracy and
Lilian Tree in the cast, wouldn’t be urgently
necessary this side of Xmas.
** * *
There was a. good house for ‘ ‘Arrah-na-Pogue”
at Melbourne Royal, and the florid virtues of the
legitimate Milesian drama were recognised in the
usual manner. Coming after a thin cockney yarn
like “The English Rose,” which appealed neither
to the head nor the heart, this thirty-year-old
favorite is very welcome. It glows with the
warmth of stage Irish life, wherein patriotic
griefs are liberally alleviated by whisky, and a
distressful pisantry endorse the assertion that
theirs is the most downtrodden country under the
sun by dancing a jig. When the hero is plunged
into prison he plunges out again; a proscribed rebel
who hides around in hay-lofts for a time, ultimately
gets a free pardon, and altogether the ir n rule of
the perfidious Saxon is made to,appear a fairly joyous
nis itution. No now terms of praise can be found
tor Maggie Moore and Grattan Riggs in such parts
as those of .Shaun and Arrah. and it is necessary
only to mention that the former sings her two
songs with all the old effect. Olyndes is racy of
the soil as Colonel O Grady, and Royce does his
duty by Michael Feeney. Minor parts are in safe
hands, too, but the acting of the recent arrivals —
Harold Russell and Miss Kingsley —is rather short
vveight in both cases. Talking of the importa-
tions, Laurence Cautley is suffering from our
glorious Australian climate, and his place in the
“Rose” had to be filled last week by George
Melville, who pulled through steadily.
{* * * *
“ Boccaccio,” at the Opera House, has
held its own against the elements as well as could
be expected, but no better. Most nights last week
the voice of the tempest was trying its level best
to shut down the prima-donna, and the funny
men had to do all they knew to keep fresh wheezes
off the chest with an umbrella. It was a cold
time for shows entirely. Provided that the gentle
dew from Heaven has left off descending in
bucketsful and the hurricane has consented to
listen to reason, “ Boccaccio ” should fetch the
multitude until Saturday, when “Madame Angot”
takes up the bill. By the way, the shallow Mac-
Mahonian device of sticking, at a late hour,
“ Full ” boards outside the theatre (when it wasn’t
full at all) is not being adopted by the present
management.
*» * *
“For Love and Life,” the original hypno-
tic drama by Messrs. Dam pier and Walch, tried
its mysterious influence upon the Alexandra on
Saturday night, when the gallery boys certainly
betrayed symptoms of mesmeric sleepiness. The
story is long-winded and unsympathetic. Dam-
pier, the ostensible hero, appears to let a mes-
merist reduce him to the miserable condition of a
“subject,” in consideration of the sum of one
pound sterling, paid in advance. The mesmerist
is actuated by a pure love of science, but the gal-
lant hero goes straight out for the twenty shillings,
and is no doubt loaded up with castor-oil and
things in an adjoining room before he comes
wandering across a murder in his trance. Then
he seems to walk home, with his brain dazed and
his hat dented in, remarking that it all seems like
a dream. In the unnatural course of things this
drowsy Juggins thinks he committed the murder
which the audience know to have been perpetrated
by a dark man with a baleful glare in both eyes.
Nobody cares for the poor “subject’s” agony of
mind, and when he is mesmerised back to con-
sciousness of his own innocence, and the other
man gets scruffed by a thick-tongued detective in
a summer suit, it is a matter of no importance.
The drama neither teaches nor entertains, and its
construction is not so tricky as other Damperian
efforts. F. C. Appleton represents a mesmerist in
a far more taking style than Kennedy did, while
Dampier is doubtless a conscientious and therefore
tedious exponent of a decidedly weak “subject.”
Further blessings to follow if the play catches on.
* * * *■
The Melbourne fasting-man has put in a
cheerful first week at the Waxworks, and looks
forward to spending a merry Christmas on warm
greetings and cold water. At present the weather
remains favourable. When it gets hot, and the
typhoidy drains trickle into the Yan Yean, the
chances are that Felix Tanner will feel strange
events transpiring within. The music-halls and
etceteras are getting through the dull season
creditably, and Madame Patey’s perseverance
was rewarded by a noble attendance on Saturday
night. The season is supposed to conclude with a
couple of oratorio performances next week, but,
no doubt, there will be another ballad concert in
the meantime, or as a wind-up.
** * *
The salient features of the Sydney Operatic
Society’s performance of “ Les Cloches de Corne-
ville” were the clean limbedness of the male
chorus, and the full bust-edness of the female ditto.
The choral singing was fresh and full, but- lacking
in light and shade, and the orchestra in most
cases drowned the solo-singers and invariably
galloped them off their vocal feet. The
Serpolette of Miss Deane (Syd. Deane’s
sister) was after the manner of Nellie Stewart.
The lady has a nice, little voice, that wouldn’t
stand much of the wear and tear of comic opera.
The Bailie and Gobo of Messrs. Allen and Carr
were very good, and the Gaspard of S. Arm-
stx-ong, otherwise feeble, was effective in the
gold scene. Miss Alice Galvin was a chipper
cabin-boy. The opera was fairly well-staged and
brightly dressed.
At overty Point.
Reference to old Paddy Belfleld recalls the yarn trage-
dian “Bill” Ryan (now growing roses and pumpkins at
Abbotsford, Vic.) tells of his first engagement in Aus-
tralia. Belfleld at that time (1855) was running the
Sydney Lyceum, and was engaging people for a long
season of melodrama, opening with the blood-curdling
“Dream at Sea.” By and bye the manager came to
Ryan (whose real name is Arrowsmith, and who had just
then arrived from the old country). “All right,” said
Paddy, when he had fixed terms, &c., “you play the
juvenile—that’ll do, and what did you say your name
was?” “William Arrowsmith,” answered the new man.
Paddy snorted disgustedly. “That won’t do at all,” he
said ; “you'll be playing to Irishmen most. All my other
people have got Irish names and you’ll have to take an
Irish name, too. We’ll call you Ryan.” With the lament-
able result that William Arrowsmith has been known as
“ Bill Ryan ” ever since.
Several dress-circle ladies left Adelaide Theatre Roya
during the performance of “Pink Dominoes” by the
Saint Maur company. They thus publicly showed their
immodesty.
H. J. Whittington, treasurer of Adelaide Theatre
Royal, has been presented with a diamond ring by the
employes on attaining his 48th birthday.
“Hammerman, the heavy man, earned kudos by acting
150 nights in “The Bull-Dozer’s Vengeance,” and a friend
asked him to explain the plot, which appeared mystical.
Says Hammerman : “Dashed if I know a thing about the
plot. Never did. When I’m done I light my pipe and go
home.” Mrs. Pritchard, the great Lady Macbeth, never
read the play, and indeed couldn’t read.
The fasting man, we constantly read, “has remained
in a recumbent position the greater part of the day.”
If he didn’t he’d probably die of syncope in one act.
A shabby-looking man turned up at a theatre the other
night and asked for the courtesy usually extended to the
profession. “To what company do you belong ?” asked
the manager. it I’m in management,” said the applicant.
“What line of biz?” queried the manager, ‘ij'm
running the Punch and Judy show at the markets,” said
he. “Step inside, my dear fellow,” said the manager;
“ but why didn’t you fetch the company?”
If there is one thing that a really Australian audience,
such as one sees at any of the popular dramatic theatres,
Melbourne Alexandra for instance, revolts at, surelv it is
the nauseating allusions to “ The Queen ” as the secret of
England’s alleged greatness, made at leastonce in every im-
ported sensational play. But the bed-rock of moral
degradation has been reached by the author of “New
Babylon.” During the recent revival of this otherwise
good old treasury-filler, Teddy Ryan as Ah Luck, the
Chinese servant, has to deliver several lick-spittling
remarks in regard to Mrs. Guelph. Ramirez, it will be
remembered, enters disguised as an Italian, hawking
statuettes. Ah Luck has a passage-at-arms with him, and
is worsted. In revenge he destroys all the Italian’s stock-
in-trade, throwing Garibaldi and the Bather off at the
wings But when he comes to a bust of her Gracious,
instead of saying “ Too muchee no good,” or something of
that sort, he kisses it fondly on the nose, and remarks,
r vT e • ea, k ee ( >! uee " Viotoly—'Victoly velly good to
John Chinaman,” and still kissing it he trots off. And a
wave of sea sickness passes all round the house.
It \vas falsely reported that Patti was about to erect a
Jewish Synagogue at Craig-y-Nos. She is an R.C.
The working-staff of Sydney Criterion presented a
hfsbfrthd S ° '^PP Malacca cane to Manager Magee on
While \aughan and Emerson’s company were perform-
ing Clarence Burnett’s “ A Man In a Thousand,” at
Hartlepool Royal (Eng.), the chatter and mocking
laughter in the circle caused Burnett, who was playing
lean, to stop. Coming down to the footlights and casting
a withering glance at the circle, he said ; “ What are you
laughing at ? We undertake to provide you with amuse-
vP e Pv I* 'J I*' 1 *'* 1 brains, and if you are not satisfied you
had better leave the house.” The rebuke, which was re-
oexved with a round of applause, apparently had the
desired effect, for the performance was permitted to pro-
f, e ®“ Wl " 10llt further interruption. On the premiere of
rrou-Frou ” at Sydney Royal, a party of three ladies
(sic) and three gentlemen (sic) wholly deprived all those
in their vicinity' of all chance of enjoying themselves.
But they were scarcely noisy enough to be heard on the
stage.
A Melbourne paper says that Ella Murphy has been
given up by the English doctors—consumption. Great
Roch . Consumption ? AVhy', her car-piercing yell still
shivers our tympanum. Anyhow, consumption or no,
l at and Ella return to Australia with a three-act comedv
called ‘ Mrs. M'Ginty,” from the pen of W. C. Robey.
It is asserted by a Melbourne paper that Mrs. Palmer
has received £2OO as commission, at 4d. per copy, on the
sa.e of Sir William Robinson’s “ Remember me no more,”
which she has popularised.
It is currently reported that a recently-divorced actress
has married the bewchus being who was co-respondent.
May they not only play love-dramas, but enact them off
the boards while life lasts.
A late impresario declared that he never wasted time
f° r d ne voices where a fish or meat diet prevailed,
that England was almost a voiceless country', and that the
countries w’hose residents, like the vocal birds, were eaters
orgiain, fruit and vegetables, are the true lands of song,
c "* lO ea f® f"’° ducks at one meal is no disproof
of this statement. His vocal chords were formed ere he
got a chance to eat meat.
Dan Barry and his company are travelling Gippsland.
Says a London paper;— “Mr. Henry J. Leslie has sailed
for America, taking with him the dresses and scenery of
the last Christmas ‘ Cinderella ’ pantomime at Her
Majesty’s Theatre.” We thought a lot of the stuff had
been shipped to Sy’dney' for a Christmas production there.
An Australian prima donna w'as hiring a help the other
-''Timber one said: “My usual wage is 12 shillin’,
but 111 knock off a bob if you give me a singin’ lesson
every mornm’.” Number two had no references, there-
upon the lady remarked: “ I can’t engage you ; what do I
know of you?” To w'hich Biddy screeched; “An’ what
the divil do I know about the likes av you ?”
Overheard at Melbourne Alexandra the other night
dunng the race-scene in “New Babylon.” That Irish
villain, the O Sligo, has defaulted in respect of a few
paltry bets, and the crowd chase him, calling out all the
time “ welsher!” A dark-eyed houri in tfie dress-circle
pondered over this a few minutes, then turned to the lady
next her and said, in an extremely' audible whisper :
How can he be a Welsher if he’s an Irishman ?”
The British actor, Chas. Cartwright, now in Sydney,
has only recently' recovered from an attack of gastric
fever followed by true typhoid, and is but a shadow of his
former self.
Carrie George, Wilson Forbes, Lyall, Frank Hawthorne
and others start out with a company at Christmas through
the rural districts of N. S. Wales and Victoria. Then
they visit Adelaide and, if finances hold good. New
Zealand.
I red B. Norton took a benefit at the hands of the new
Irving Dramatic Society on Tuesday and Wednesday last
in the Protestant Hall, Sydney, to wipe off a rent score
he had foolishly incurred through becoming responsible
for others.
M. Deslouis, who, we are told, imagines that high-class
music is wholly unknown in Australia, in conjunction
with N an Iperen, Mdlle. Bestel (the new French soprano),
M. Kowalski and Mine., Charbonet-Kellerinan, will give a
grand operatic festival at the Y.M.C.A, Hall on Saturday
next.
“Daddy” Hallewell is at present laid up with an
attack of typhoid, and his professional brethren, assisted
by Messrs. Riccardi, Huenerbein, and others, intend to
give him a benefit.
Prosper Sainton, the violinist, conductor and composer,
who married the great English contralto, Charlotte
Dolby, whose sister, Mrs. Pedley, is resident in Sydney,
died recently' in England of bronchial asthma. He
appeared last in public with his wife (who died in ’B5) at
the Albert Hall in ’B3. He willed the rare old violin he
has used for 50 years to Miss Pedley, one of his favourite
pupils.
Fred, de Belleville, well-known in Australians rehearsing
“ Man and Woman ” at Proctor’s Theatre, N. Y.
The well-known Danish Herbalist, Herr
Rasmussen, certainly scored a point when he pur-
chased that property now known as the Mount
Lizzie Orchard and Vineyard, situated within
one and a half miles from Minto. Four years ago
this land was only partially cleared, and its im-
provement in so short a time makes it evident
that no expense has been spared in order to make
it a model estate. The temporary dwelling is
situated on the summit of a hill, so that an un-
broken view of the Flue Mountains is secured.
The concert-hall, fernery, almond-groves, foun-
tains and wine-cellars are worthy of note. A
new house is about to be erected at a cost of £2OOO,
which will be quite a novelty in that district.
Herr Rasmussen has, in all, twelve hundred
full-bearing fruit trees and 3000 vines. One por-
tion of the land is devoted entirely to the cultiva-
tion of the herbs used in his profession. He
is an experienced botanist, and fully intends to
import and propagate many plants useful in
medical science hitherto not grown in this
country.*
At next N.S. W, general election, the New-
castle and district labor bodies, who make nosecret of
their intention of getting level with their enemies
at the ballot boxes, hope to be so effectively
organised as to be able, for the first time in history,
to cast every vote for their own candidates. A
Labor League has been formed, which all union
lodges will join, and from the lodge-delegates will
be formed a Central Parliamentary Committee,
whose duty it will be to lay down a Labor plat-
form, to the principles of which Labor candidates
must subscribe, signing a bond to resign their
seats if called upon to do so consequent on de-
parture from the principles upon which they were
elected. Three candidates must be selected by
ballot by the central committee, and these candi-
dates all unions will be called upon to support at
the poll. The unions will find all nomination
money and pay all election expenses, so that per-
sonal poverty shall be no bar to a faithful repre-
sentative of the people’s cause in Parliament.
The unionists don’t care one brass farthing who
puts up on the accustomed lines or who does not.
Let such candidates get what support they may
from outside sources, the Labor votes (to the tune
of many thousands) will go straight for their own
men only. Which looks like real business.
CORRESPONDENCE
“ Pakeha ” (N); Chapter I of book 2 of “ The
World’s Desire” was published in the New Review for
July, 1880, the first book having previously appeared.
“C. J.” (Oasterton); Many thanks “Republican ” :
The extract, though well-written, is dreadful trash in
point of sentiment... “An Admirer of B.”; Can’t well
give you the information in print; but will tell you if you
call “Sulitjelma ’: In the main, we cordially agree
with you, though we notice in Australia a governmental
disposition to arm the richer classes against the poorer.
To one thing the workman should look: the fact that the
citizen soldier forces are officered exclusively by men of a
class to whom it is his interest to be politically opposed.
—“Beggar” (S.): Will consider “Corrie”: Thanks—
“ Vico” : You do not seem to know that there were two
Judges Jeffcott, One in Adelaide who was drowned in
1887, and the second Resident Judge at Port Phillip, 1845.
“ Mike Robe ” : The letter to hand, but not the tale,
up to time of writing... “ Larundell ” (M.R., M.P.): Story
received “W.0.H.”; Parkes’ eulogy of Crick had a
lot of truth in it, but it was not uttered bona-fide. Its
chief object was to insult the Opposition as a whole
“ Bob Arlington ” : Will read and let you know later 0n...
“A. Macready” (W.E.): The Bulletin’s invariable
practice is to regard political cablegrams, until they are
fully confirmed, with suspicion asjgrave as that which
attaches to the statements of a common informer
“Clinton”: Thanks “Darby and Joan”; Excellent
sentiment “ Philo-Maori ”: You shouldn’t threaten
kicks on such flimsy provocation. If you do you will
kick a snag some day. If you want to kick Banjo we
have his authority to furnish you with his address
“ F. 8.” (Barrier) : Much obliged...." B. J.M.” (Burrowa):
A first-rate thing “K.K.”: (1) Torquay; (2) Because
Parkes, you may be sure, chafes much at the restraints
imposed upon him by Bruce Smith and M‘Millan. He
aimed an ugly side-blow at the latter not long since, and
will “lay” for Bruce Smith, just as he has “laid’
for every man who ever put the snaffie on him...
“ A. 0.” : It is an open secret that Mr. Spence objected to
the shearers being called out, but was over-ruled in the
Labour Defence committee “G.E.”: The verses ar e
by Gordon (he wrote them on the ship Julia, while
sailing to Australia), and were handed by a lady to
Arthur Patohett Martin, who printed them in Temple
Bae some years ago. They appear in the latest edition
of Gordon, published by Massina and Co “ E. 0.”: The
story told by Superintendent Hare about the bushranger
Power, who, instead of at once shooting a fellow who
refused to deliver-up his money, went behind a tree and
prayed that God might soften the heart of the obdurate
man, is very like the anecdote told of Lynch, the N.S.W.
murderer who, in his confession, stated that after praying
that Heaven would direct him rightly, concluded that it
was a square thing to chop the man down with bis little
axe “ Proscrustes” : The leading principle of the
social code, even in Australia, is that Labor is dishonor-
able and Work disgraceful. The grand old English social
strata boss us. The gentleman is the Angel; the lady the
Archangel “Reader” (Tocumwal): “The Golden
Shanty,” bound in cloth, costs 2s 6d, post paid
“H. F.” (Fit.zroy); Not up to scratch “G. W. E.” :
Phil May “Pilgrim”: Though the words come from
your soul, yet they are unsuitable. The soul that has not
swallowed a dictionary is not to be relied on
“Rambling Rhymester”: Had you condensed your
lengthy screed into on,e-fourth the space it might have
been suitable... “Arthur Barton”: Many thanks ; have
been doubtful about the bona-fides of this writer’s
inspiration for some time. Had we known what, thanks
to you, we know now, the verses would not have appeared
in The Bulletin “On Anzi”: M.S. to hand; wall
consider “J.S.R. ” (Mel.): If your letter came, we
have mislaid it. Do you refer to a type-written
M.S. in verse? “H. Grinlington ” : A purely
local matter which should be settled in the local press...
“ Walter L’E.” : Not enough stuff in it “ H.M.” (Ascot
Vale)-: (1) Poem an old and well-known thing. (2) Yes, it
will be published, (3) “ Lays of the Army of the Night,”
price half-a-crown—from Dymock, bookseller, Sydney
“Anxious” : The photo, you send looks like the portrait
of the boy-murderer at the Waxworks. You asked for
our candid opinion, and now you’ve got it. We speak by
the card, for the last time we saw the gentleman his
name wasn’t Gordon and he was “in the logs” at May-
town, Palmer River, for stealing pigs from a local China.
man. That was 13 years ago “Enquirer” (A.P.) :
Write to Mr. Dymock, bookseller, George-street, Sydney.
It is long out of print, can only be bought as a second-
hand book, and would cost at least £2 “H. 8.8.”
(Malvern): Idea of cartoon too hackneyed and not in
time for publication “ Aus.” : Imagine a poor Rip Van
Winkle coming out of prison after 20 years. Ruefully he
takes over his carefully-preserved clothes, and goes forth
to the great world of Melbourne or Sydney clad in the
fashions of 1870—an admirable recommendation to a
billet “James Worth” :We consider that glove-fights
under Queensberry rules are prize-fights pure and simple.
“Southern Cross” : Your verses want only a little
pruning and polishing “ S.M.” : Try again “John
Freeman ” : The verses have many fine lines and some
bad ones. Condense and revise “Francis” Under
consideration “Mentor” : Many thanks “L.T.E.”:
Try some child’s paper “ Allanby ” : The big doses of
brandy kill the patient as often as the snakebite
“ H.0.H.” : Thanks. Handed to artist “ Knob ” You
may try your hand “ B. Ryan ” : Thanks,


B
U C II A N A N’S
"HOUSE or COMMONS” WHISKY.
HIGHEST AW AE D : Pabis International
Exhibition, 1889.
FOREIGN STAMPS.
Wo are prepared to pay high prices for old collections
_ of postage-stamps (state of book immaterial), or for any
taken ofTlettersTdated 1850 to 1870. Look up your old letters, they may he worth pounds.
Stamps con he St Vpostand will be paid for by return mail. One hundred (100) different Foreurn Stamps
uost free 2s. Bd.; 50 different Australasian stamps (for sending to friends abroad), post free, os.Ad. , Stamp
Albums with illustrated catalogues, post free, Os. lOd. and 9s. lOd. Stamp price-list gratis. The 1 mipateuo
Mostui.y, an illustrated Journal for stamp collectors, post free. 2s. per year ; single copies, post free, 3d. ,
correspondence invited.
S 3, JPL. VUSTDIIST <sc CO., Foreign stamp Importers,
0 and 11 Victoria Arcade, Elizabeth .Street. SYDNEY, and at HAMBURG.
WORTH IT'S WEIGHT IN COLD!
ATMS
r ooliug and Strengh
thenins EVE IO-
TIOIV. for all Uisea
_ _ _ ■cs of the Eyes, more
1-aTtTcularly Sandy Blight,lnflammation of the Eyes and
Ejelids, Weakness of i ‘ Sight,&o.lt gives
not only immediate relief 'inthe very worst
oases of Sandy Blight- . but effects a per.
manent cure in a few
| days. _
YE „
LOTION
Price, Is 6<l iter Itolllc.
PKEPAfC D ONLY CY
JOHN WATSON,
4 lieniist, 581 4;<:oi«c Sireri, Sydney*
AM) SOLD BV Al*L IOisrKCTABLE STOKJBK.KKPKKS.
A Strange Remembrance
(A BULLETIN BUSH SKETCH.).
A scene of utter desolation. Underfoot nothing
but loose slate shingles, not a blade of grass, not a
green herb anywhere. All around stunted nmlga
bushes, grey, sombre, and lifeless. In tiie back-
ground frowning ranges, their rugged slopes
clothed with the same dull desert scrub. A
depressing landscape to gaze upon, especially to
a solitary man fifteen miles from camp with a
tired and footsore horse. . . . ,
The man in question stood beside his weaneci
steed, with his arms resting upon his horse s
withers, j gazing moodily across at the sinking
sun. He had lately taken up and stocked some
country in the northern portion of Western Aus-
tralia; had been following the tracks of a few
head of cattle that had .been frightened by the
blacks, and making a short cut back across the
range his horse had bruised its foot and fallen
lame.
“Nothing for it, old man,” he said, addressing
his dumb companion, “you must try and hobble
on a bit further and perhaps we’ll find a little
grass lower down the gully. No such luck as
water I’m afraid. ” .
Linking his arm through the reins he walked
on, his horse limping painfully after him.
In about half a mile he came to a small opening
in the dark monotony of the mulga scrub, and, as
he was still on a spur of the range he could see the
lower and level country spread beneath him.
The sun was sinking behind an opposing,range of
hills on the other side of the valley. _ Far, far
away to the south he could see the twin-peaked
hill near which was his camp, and down the centre
of the valley could trace the taller foliage that
indicated the course of the river.
It was a lonely outlook. Even as he gazed at
it the sun sank behind the western range, a
shadow passed over the tree tops, turning them, if
possible to a more sombre tint, and a low breath
of wind stole through the surrounding scrub with
an almost human sigh.
Jack Turner was casting another long glance
around before recommencing his tramp when his
attention was attracted by the white trunk of a
gum tree showing out above the scrub only a
short distance away. It was a little off his
homeward track, and as he looked at it curiously,
wondering whether it would be worth while to
make for the spot on the chance of finding a sandy
patch of ground with a little grass for his horse,
he saw, to his astonishment, a puff of smoke arise
and vanish in the air.
“Blacks, of course,” was his thought. Outside
of his camp he knew himself to be the only white
man in all the miles of country now fast dis-
appearing from his gaze in the short-lived
twilight; and a dreary thing it was to know. It
was not the tribe who had been amongst the
cattle, for they had been followed on to another
river and would scarcely venture back for some
months. Most probably it was one of the small,
wandering families, consisting of, perhaps, an
old man, his gin, and a couple of gaunt, sore-
eyed piccanninies, who fought for a half-starved
existence on grubs arid roots in the desert. Who
it was he intended to ascertain, so setting
his course by the bright and beautiful evening
star now descending in the track of the sun, ho
strode on through the darkening shadows until
the smell of burning wood told him lie was nearing
his destination. Approaching cautiously he soon
got sight of the fire, and hanging his horse up to
a tree stole forward, revolver in hand,
A bit of bark blazed up and showed him who
the wanderers were. A withered old gin and a
half-grown child were seated on a tattered skin
beside the fire.
With a momentary feeling of shame, he hastily
replaced his pistol and strode forward, holding
both hands up as a sign of peace that most natives
understand.
With a shrill cry the child, a young girl, sprang
up and, frantic with terror, tried to pull the old
crone on to her feet. She only succeeded in doing
so by the time that Turner was close to them, and
it struck him as strange that they had not run
away into the darkness. The old woman stood
tottering, trying to support herself by a stick,
confused and frightened by the exclamations of
the girl. Then Turner saw that she was blind.
By dint of some trouble he managed to pacify
the girl, and when she found that she was not to
be killed and eaten she became silent, and the
old woman sat down again. Turner threw some
twigs on the fire, for the night had now closed in,
and, as they blazed up, looked around.
The fire was at the foot of the gum-tree that had
attracted his attention. Apparently it was on a
small, sandy flat with a fairly good supply of
grass; at the foot of the tree, which was an old
shell, he could see a circular hole, a native well,
and near the fire stood a good-sized coolamen
nearly full of water. Here was a stroke of luck,
grass and water; and a soft spot to lie down on,
when he had anticipated a stony couch under a
mulga-tree with his poor tired horse tied up to
keen him from futile wandering.
The old dame was safe anchored and the child's
fright was apparently appeased, so he went back
and brought up his horse and unsaddled him.
Then taking his quart-pot he made signs to the
girl that he wanted water. This was at once
understood and seemed to place them on a friendly
footing; taking the quart-pot she went to the hole,
and to Turner’s surprise seemed to disappear in
the earth. A black hand, however, soon appeared
holding the brimming quart aloft full of cool
sweet water, and Turner took it, and indulged in
a long refreshing drink. This reminded him that
poor old Nero, his horse, stood in need of liquid
refreshment, and he examined the well and found
that it had been sunk down nearly five feet, and
that there was a good supply of water at the
bottom. By aid of the' coolamen, out of which
Nero, after many sniffs and snorts, consented to
drink, Turner gave his horse a satisfactory
quencher, the girl filling the quart and handing
it up to him. The ice once broken, Nero finished
off several brimming measures, and then retired
to crop the welcome grass and rest his bruised
frog on the sand.
Turner unstrapped his blankets, and having still
some tea and sugar and bread and meat left, pro-
ceeded to prepare his own meal. After some
difficulty he persuaded his young hostess to taste
some sugar, which was highly appreciated, as was
also some bread. Unfortunately the stock of
provisions was limited. Next morning it was
evident that Nero could not proceed another mile,
go there was nothing for it but to leave him at the
well. There being now a perfect understanding
between the child and himself, Turner explained
that he would be back by the time the sun had
risen and set twice, that she was to give the horse
so many coolamens full of water twice a day until
he returned; all of which she seemed most
intelligently to understand and appreciate. Before
leaving he made her water Nero without his help,
which she did most satisfactorily, and then giving
them his blankets and what bread and meat
was left and, putting his saddle up in the fork of
a tree, he started off for camp, which he reached,
rather tired, that evening, without further adven-
ture.
Next day was Christmas day, and he was easily
persuaded to spell in camp and defer the recovery
of Nero for another day. Having lauded the in-
telligence displayed by the young savage and ex-
pressed his intention of providing her and her old
charge with a tremendous feed in return for their
hospitality, his partner naturally was sufficiently
interested to accompany him when he started back
to the well.
It was mid-day when they reached the neigh-
bourhood of the tree.
“I hope old Nero isn’t dead,” said Turner’s
partner, pointing to two or three crows who, at
their approach, rose up from the scrub and flew
cawing away.
They rode on to the flat and both men pulled up
in surprise. The place was dotted all over with
the remains of fires, fresh tracks covered the
ground everywhere, and it was evident that a
large body of blacks had only just vacated the
camp.
“ you saw nothing of this?” said Turner’s
partner,- Turner shook his head, he could have
sworn that beyond the two representatives lie had
interviewed there was not a nigger within fifty
miles.
jya t or>e j 1 v I
They rode over the deserted camp. ‘ Look a g
the ovens,” said Turner pointing to the remain
of the earthen mounds that had been used for
cooking something bigger than their usual fare. A
light broke on him —“ Poor old Nero !
They had not far to look ; bis hoofs, some horse
hair, and scorched pieces of hide, bore witness to
his fate. Nero had formed the Christmas dinner.
There was nothing to do but ride home again.
The saddle had been hacked to pieces, and the
blacks had more than 24 hours’ start.
Turner was naturally rather aggrieved when he
considered that if he had gone on that night,
walking slowly, he would probably have got his
horse half-way to the camp and saved his life;
but a remark” of his partner’s reconciled him to
the existing state of things. “ Look here, old
man, your luck was dead in. If those bucks had
come along the night you were there instead of
the next you would have been served up for their
Christmas dinner as well as Nero.”
a Which was quite true.
DELCOMYN.
The Victorian Railway Department is 50
per cent, out of pocket on their three ship-loads
of Japanese coal ordered during the strike ! In
other words, they have to pay double the price of
Newcastle coal for a fuel greatly inferior in
quality. When ordering, no samples were for-
warded whereupon to base an agreement. I his
only further impresses upon the public the convic-
tion that the cost of the strike will be borne by
itself all round. In the future, perhaps instead
of looking on apathetically with its hands in its
pockets and a far-away look in its eye, the com-
munity may ([interest itself in the ethical and
economic rights of labour-disputes, , instead of
leaving the conduct of its affairs in the hands of a
batch of callous representatives whose private
sympathies and personal interests are in direct
antagonism to those of their constituents.
The “Kreutzer Sonata."
Dear Bulletin, —When Gilbert published his
revised and condensed “Hamlet” he viewed the
question of that sombre - orphan’s mental condition
from a new standpoint, and speculated as to
whether he was idiotically sane, or sanely idiotic,
or whether he was a person who had broken down
in the effort to be an idiot; and finally he re-
solved that the Danish prince was a fool in his
right mind with occasional lucid intervals of
brilliant derangement. The same argument might
reasonably apply to the incomprehensible Russian
whose “ Kreutzer Sonata ” is the literary sensation
of the moment in Australia, but in his case the
balance of evidence seems to show that he has
made a noble effort to be a lunatic, and has failed
miserably in the attempt. The collapse is hope-
less and incurable ; from the first page to the last
the book is strewn with the mental wreckage of a
man who has prided himself on his own insanity,
and discovered, when it was too late to repair the
mishap, that he is still in his right mind, and has
no reasonable hope of getting out of it. Possibly it
he had begun the work earlier in life he might have
successfully escaped from his own senses, but
Tolstoi is now too old for such experiments, ihe
moral of the “ Kreutzer Sonata ” is that a man
whose sole occupations in life are to loaf and to
wallow in sensuality is apt to become tired and
disgusted, and this much the world knew before.
What the world did not know is that the old,
weary, burst-up voluptuary had any cause to write
a book for the express purpose of demanding why
he is tired and miserable and useless, but iolstoi
has written the book, and apparently regards the
contents thereof as a new_ revelation. It is a
volume of dreary introspection perpetrated by a
man who seems to suffer under an impression that
his own particular boil and his private tumour are
subjects in which the whole earth must necessarily
feel interested, though in a few days the “Kreutzer
Sonata ’’ will fall into oblivion, because the earth
has its own boil and its own tumour to look after.
The hero of the work is a p i rson who sits by him-
self in a mental desert contemplating bis symp-
toms, and hunting up fresh ones, and a person of
this kind is only of passing interest. He is the
sort of individual who would write an ode
upon his diseased liver, or would retire
into a wilderness with nothing but a bad
case of leprosy to keep him company, and
actually enjoy the companionship. Under the
influence of different surroundings he would
be a plain, morbid individual with a porous-
plaster, and a respirator, and a vast collection of
patent medicines, and he would send a guinea to
L. L. Smith on the ground that he didn’t feel
well; but accident has made him take refuge in
philosophy instead of pills, just as another acci-
dent might have led him to abandon both philo-
sophy and pills and take to gin. He has two
theories, neither of them being of any particular
service; one is that the noblest, if not the only,
mission of woman is to perpetuate the human
race, while the other is that the human race
should not be perpetuated, but should be allowed
to die out. The first is the inspiration of an
animal who mistakes his animalism for soul, and
his dull sensuality for poetic fervour, and who
fancies that his moral disease is the beginning of
a new gospel. When that ordinary clod, George
11., issued his ultimatum that there was no good
in “ baintingand boedry,” because his own sodden
brain could not rise above adultery and beer, he did
not extinguish these arts, for the world took no
notice of him, and yet, like Tolstoi’s hero, he pro-
bably regarded his brutal dullness as the sign
of an elevated mind and a great intellect. And
as for the second proposition, it is only a large,
vague, second-hand speculation at the best, and
twenty million people have formulated the same
idea before. If it would be good for mankind not
to exist, then it would be better for it never to
have existed, and, best of all, if time and space
and the principle of vitality, and the Influence
which called these things into being, had never
been at all. Man often dreams, in a hazy, uncer-
tain way, that he would like to bring about this
general abolition of everything, and then, realising
that the contract is too large for him, returns
to earthly considerations, and gets drunk to
drown the sense of his own impotence. It is a
miserable end to the vision of Nirvana, and next
day the dreamer is fined 7s. 6d. at the instance of
a common, earthy material policeman, who con-
fuses the visionary yearning after annihilation with
the purely human tendency to tear his uniform.
Tolstoi’s hero confesses frankly that he was
muddled with liquor and tobacco during the
greater part of his career. He commenced life as
a rake, and used up his capacity for living when
still in his boyhood. Then he married, and was
surprised to find himself too worn and battered
and prematurely old to extract' any fresh enjoy-
ment out of his leprous existence. Finally he
became a sodden toper, with maudlin yearnings
after the sublime, the infinite, and the unfixable in
between his beers, and in between his yearnings
he knocked his wife about and raised promiscuous
Gehenna in his palace, till at last he ended by
jumping on the unhappy lady with both feet and
performing a matter-of-fact murder of the Bill
Sikes pattern. Tolstoi practically maintains
that the world wants a new Gospel to keep this
common animal —for even his yearnings are
common, and his philosophy is borrowed, and
there is nothing new about him—from going wrong,
but unluckily such an animal isimperviousto gospel
of any kind. He is not obscene or offensive, though
he possibly aimed at being both. Neither is he
interesting ; he is merely dull and egotistical, and
he demands that the world shall be abolished
because he has been a drunkard and a failure, and
his liver has gone awry. He is only a new edition
of that flaring Sunday-school oleograph in which
a horizontal expiring family point a moral in a
garret, accompanied by a gin-bottle, while a
strictly vertical dissenting parson stands alongside
and reads an appropriate chapter from the writings
of Solomon. The “ Kreutzer Sonata ”is a deadly
stupid publication with a few medical speculations
slung in here and there, and when the medical
speculations grow stale it will fall into hopeless
oblivion. The story is one which can be read
every day in the columns of the Evening News,
and when condensed by a cheap, unimpressionable
reporter it reads something like this :
John Smith, a brutal-looking individual of no occupa-
tion, was charged with a murderous assault upon hia
wife. The plaintiff, who was in a terribly-battered con-
dition, testified that he was perpetually intoxicated, and
had quarrelled with her and ill-used her almost from the
day of their marriage. Sentenced to three months’ im-
prisonment with hard labour.
If some unwholesome Tolstoi would seize upon
this paragraph, and depict John Smith as a person
with wild, unfathomable longings after an ideal
state of society, he would have all the necessary
materials for a new “ Kreutzer Sonata.”—Yours,
&c.,
TITUS SALT.
Some coarse person has upset the Sabbath
calm of Hobart by an outrage which has no
parallel in history since the burning of Rome. He
began bis nefarious proceedings by raiding the
premises of a local chemist, and taking a glass
dish full of human teeth, which that gentleman
had jerked out of various patients in the course of
a long and honourable career. There was the
molar that had been dynamited out of the coun-
tenance of a fainting maiden dressed in white,
and the one which had been extracted gratis from
a poor widow, who was unable to pay, and whom
the chemist had dragged six times round the room
by the tooth in obedience to that scriptural in-
junction which bids us comfort the bereaved and
give a leg up to the fatherless. Also, there was
the grinder that had been wrested from the
starving and staggered head of a true Christian
who made the room vociferous with his profanity
while the proceedings were going on, and never
paid the bill afterwards; and the other one
that the operator removed out of the rose-
bud mouth of his own best girl when they
were both young, and life was a primrose path of
loveliness. He took this particular patient on his
knee, and rested her head on his shoulder during
the operation, and then she went and married
another fellow, and when ho looked back on the
episode he often wished he had simply grasped her
tooth in a cold, mercenary fashion, as if it was the
tooth of an utter stranger, and hauled her all over
the house like an ordinary customer, till at last
the root gave way and let her down in a heap on
the floor. There were a lot of pleasant associations
about that accumulation of teeth, and when the
thief sloped with them he left a void behind him
which will never again be filled. Then having
secured his prey, that debased individual went
into the shop of the adjacent butcher, and hove
the teeth all over the meat, after which he
smiled a smooth and treacherous smile
and departed. The butcher, unhappily, was
an absent-minded man, and he sent the meat and
ths teeth together to his customers, and later in
the day people with teeth in their pockets began
to drop in by twos and threes and offer remarks
which nearly blew the head off the miserable
artisan in flesh, and they also made baseless asser-
tions all over the shop, and offered unsupported
statements in the back-yard. Most of their obser-
vations were unfit to appear in print and must,
therefore, be suppressed, but anyone who can
imagine the language of a whole oityful of people
with loose teeth in their hash can readily fill in
the deficiency. It was an exciting time, and
Hobart never wants another such upheaval.
FREETRDE OR PROTECTION.
Some vote Protection, some Freetrade,
As best for this young country’s weal.
But ask the youth or blushing maid,
And each will answer — Pemell’s Meal I
As best, because it has been tried,
There’s nothing half so good beside.
His Golden Meal is what I mean,
’Tis good and pure and cheap, I wean.
Write for plans £lO Building sites, Perth,
Western Australia. Intercolonial Investment
Company, Limited, 96 Bathurst-street, Sydney.


Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
The reliable buggies and waggons at 22 and 24
Clarence-street (corner of Margaret-street).
Bladon’s Health Saline. Invigorating and
refreshing. W. 0. Smith, 251 Elizabeth-st.
Old-fashioned Jewellery modernised to perfection. De-
igns free. Dahms and Co., King-street Arcade.
Advise your friends to drink Wolfe’s Schnapps.
Bona-Fide announcement. Highest cash price
given for all kinds of gent’s left off clothing.
Dress-suits for sale or hire. Letters proi ptly
attended to by QUITTENTON BROS., 11l
Russell street, MELBOURNE. {New number,
1Q3.)
The London & Sydney Tea Co, supply families,
and deliver teas free ary where in N.S. Wales.
Western Australia, the coming colony. Perth
land should be worth buying and holding for a
rise. W. J. Douglas, £6 Bathurst-street, Sydney.
To darken grey hair.—Lockyer’s Sulphur
hair restorer is the quickest, best, safest, and
cheapest. Large Bottles, Is, (id. Everywhere.
Use Batho's Baking Powder.
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
Perfection with Simplicity distinguishes the
Shannon Letter and Bill File. No folding;
all papers open flat. No endorsing; always in
order of date and alphabet. No indexing ; papers
self-indexed. Disarrangement or loss impossible.
W. M. Maclaedy, 319 George-street Sydney.
DEPOSITORS. BORROWERS.
INTEEOOLONIAL INVESTMENT
LAND & BUILDING Co, Ltd.,
AND
DEPOSIT ZB-A-iETIK:.
Incorporated under the Companies’ Act.
Offices: 96 BATHURST STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors:
WM. M‘COURT, Esq., M.L.A. (Chairman);
R. J. BRANDON, Esq., J.P. ; TIIOS. TATE. Esq.;
J. T. LAWLER, Esq.; G. DYSON, Esq.
BORROWERS- '
Loans Granted on Approved Securities
DEPOSITORS.
Moneys received on Deposit:
Three Years
One Year
Six Months
{
Participating
in
Bonus.
}
7h per cent.
7" per cent.
6 per cent.
Five per cent, allowed on Daily Balance of Current
Account, which may be operated on by cheque.
Latest Balance-sheet on application.
W. J. DOUGLAS, Manager.
POLITICAL
POINTS.
Dibbs, it is averred, has again declined a
K.C.M.G.-ship.
The S.A. railway revenue has more than
doubled during the last ten years.
The new Munro doctrine, “ The lips that
touch whisky shall never touch mine.”
Alfred Bennett threatens to stand for the
N.S.W. Parliament. For what constituency ?
The Australian Labour Federation (Q.)
has a scheme on foot for making its 18,000 or
20,000 members teetotallers.
The Maitland (N.S.W.) Mercury opposes
the extension of the franchise to women- an
extraordinary act of self-abnegation.
The annual Ministerial emolument of the
Queensland Premier is £1000; the salary of the
Chief Commissioner Railways is £3OOO.
It is thought likely that Curley, M.P. for
Newcastle will be offered a Civ 1 Service appoint-
ment to save him from a crushing defeat at next
N.S.W. general election.
The Lord-Lieutenantcy of Ireland is (ho
on ly office under the British Crown which at the
present day a Roman Catholic cannot fill. Glad-
stone meditates a Bill abolishing the restriction.
So far as political purposes go, Curley,
M.P., of N.S.W., should really drop the “o”
Horn his name. He is one of the most curly
persons ever returned to any Legislature with the
aid of the Labour vote.
Should Parnell resign ? Before answering
tliis conundrum, ask yourself another. If the
Prince of Wales, also an uncrowned king, were
guilty of an offence similar to Parnell’s, should lie
resign ? Would he ? Did he ?
General Booth is going to send to Aus-
tralia, if we let him, “the class thatis at present
unprovided for by public funds or private charity,
namely, the homeless, the out-of-works, the
drunkards and the harlots.” Thanks.
The N.S.W. Legislative Assembly refused
to receive a petition from the Local Option League
praying for the closing of the liquor-bar in
Parliament Houses. The League should not com-
plain ; that is the Assembly’s “local option.”
The N.S.W. Ladies’ ( not Women’s) Evan-
gelistic Association demands that propertied
women shall be given votes, “because they have a
stake in the welfare of the country.” The ■work-
ing-woman without property has, of course, uo
such interest.
Even if the N.S.W. Legislative Assembly
refuses to receive the Local Option petition
against drink being supplied in the Parliament
refreshment-room, it ought to fire out the three
or four chronic drunkards who disgrace the house
by their hiccoughs.
The latest cable reads: “Dillon and
O'Brien have been denounced in America and
their mission scouted.” The real truth is that
during the first week of the Home Rulers’ tour
the receipts were £15,000, and £6,600 of ’this was
raised at one meeting.
Crick once contested Wellington (N.S.W.)
unsuccessfully, and speaking subsequently to a
Sydney friend he declared that when he addressed
the electors after his defeat, and pointed out to
them what they had done by refusing him as their
representative they wept “tears.”
The excessive bitterness shown by the
Press towards Parnell is based on the fact that he
allowed judgment to go by default, thereby
depriving the journals of some of the spiciest
“ copy ” obtainable since the celebrated case of
Potiphar v. Potiphar, Joseph co-respondent.
Postmaster-General Duffy, of Victoria,
is now particularly anxious to repudiate all con-
nection with the Tory policy of the fallen Gillies.
“ I do not know the reason why I should be
classed as a Conservative,” he complains, “ unless
it is because I was once seen wearing a pair of kid
gloves. If that be so, the fact that they did not
fit ought to be taken as a mitigation.”
The present session in the Queensland
Assembly has been a session of conundrums.
Glassey asks the latest as follows: “By what
constitutional law was the ex-reverend editor
Brentnall elected to the Legislative Council?”
The answer isn’t very far to seek. Parson Brent-
nall is in the Building Society syndicating swim,
who pull the political strings just how they like in
Brisbane.
Premier Parkes indignantly declares that
“if men outside Parliament could say what mem-
bers were to have in the way of refreshments, they
might just as well decide what kind oi seats they
were to sit upon.” As a matter of fact, men out-
side the House do decide upon this seat subject.
And quite a number of the present members will
soon find it decided that their seats arete be placed
outside the House for the future.
Properly does the southern press point out
that it is impossible for Munro to give due atten-
tion to the duties of Premier. He is up to the
eyes in business, with his Federal Bank, Federal
Building Society, immense interests at King
Sound, West Australia, and the two big Coffee
Palaces, the Grand and Victoria. He imagines
that the fag-end of his mind will do for a Premier-
ship, though such was never the idea of profes-
sional politicians like Berry and Gillies.
Item from the Inquiry Commission’s
report on the N.S.W. Postmaster-General’s
Department : —“ There is a vacancy caused by the
recent retirement of Mr. Board, who was in re-
ceipt of £340 per annum. Your commissioners
have made careful inquiry into the work per-
formed by this officer, and recommend that the
vacancy be not filled, aS the staff is quite large
enough for the work.” All the same, however,
the vacancy was filled. The fat went forth —
“ Appiut O’Har-r-a !” And O’Hara was accord-
ingly “appiuted.”
Although the Northern grandees may not
acknowledge the fact now, an eccentric old fruit-
merchant named Marshall is really the father of
the N. Q. Separation movement. For a while,
the persevering enthusiast was simply regarded as
a cranky old faddist, but in time the Townsville
land syndicators—and their name is legion—
caught on, and then the separatist propaganda
spread like a cholera epidemic right through the
North. The present writer well remembers the
first separation meeting held at Townsville, and
the contumely which the local press heaped upon
its conveners. But all that is passed now. After
Marshall had borne the heat and burden of the
day, numbers were ready to step in and take the
credit.
Melbourne Savings Bank Committee have
issued circulars with a panacea for Strikes, which
is—to scrape up acquaintance with them. We used
to be one of those, not bank directors, but theft-
panaceans, but see clearly that it doesn’t go all
round. “Ah, I’ve putt somethink by,’’ was the
smug saying of a few strikists —who were
struck aghast when it was suggested (perchance
by some six-pound-a-week man) that they ought
to eat up the putt by. Wherefore the putt by man
slunk from his fellows, and had no camaraderie.
After all, the man who hid his talent in a napkin
was the champion putt by. You can putt by as
much as you like if you shirk all the responsi-
bilities of life.
Premier Playford, of South Australia,
offers the following refreshing observations: “I
do not object to any man taking a title if he has
worked hard and done good service for the
country, and likes to take it, but the taking of a title
THE MARCH OF SCIENCE.
Some one having invented a smokeless, noiseless and odourless powder, it is now in
order for somebody to go one better and invent a smokeless and odourless tobacco for use
in tramways, churches, etc.
to hand down to his children and his chi'dren’s
children, who may be idiots, or drunkards, or
fools, or cowards, is something those colonies
ought not to countenance. A man’s descendants
may possibly be deserving of a title, but then they
should have it on their own merit.” This is good
enough so far as it goes, but what Playford really
wants to convey is that every man should get his
title by his own meanness, instead of relying on
the meanness of his ancestors. Nobody ever gets
a title by merit nowadays, or because he has done
good to anybody. Who ever conceived the idea of
making Dr. Livingstone a duke, for example? or
of giving a knighthood to the. unobtrusive doctor
who found a specific for snakebite?
Let Parnell stick to his leadership while
bis party trust him politically ; when they
abandon him let him resign. Berry was the
Robespierre of the Victorian revolution ; and this
is what the Age, which now condemns Parnell as
infamous, said about Berry, a year or two before
the latter became its prophet :
It has been very properly left to Mr. Garrett to make
his statement in unmistakeable terms ! He has done so,
and Mr. Berry complains that the charge of infamy has
been shifted from his father-in-law to himself. His quasi
denial is therefore not inconsistent with the interpreta-
tion put upon his resignation as a confession of down-
right infamy on his own part. This is the only feasible
interpretation that can he put upon his movement of last
night, and it is well he should know it. It is not only a
confession of guilt of some sort, hut the silence of his
colleagues is an indication that they consider him
o-uilty. . . . H unfit to be an honorable member of
the Executive Council, he is unfit to he an honorable
member of the Legislative Assembly. Even a final
acquittance by the select committee would not, after
what has transpired, rehabilitate his character. Setting
aside altogether Mr. Berry’s private affairs, we have no
hesitation in denouncing his appointment as politically
infamous.
The Quarterly Review, formerly edited
by Lockhart, Sir Walter Scott’s son-in-law, has
been favoured with an advance copy of Sir
Walter’s diary, from 1825 to 1832, nothing what-
ever from which has hitherto been published.
Scott was prompted to start a diary through
Murray, the publisher, showing him Byron’s.
The book will be out in a mail or two.
Personal Items.
Crick has turned teetotaller.
Crick, it is claimed, is a South Australian
by birth.
Some of the English papers say that
Albert Victor is often in a semi-sane condition.
Another weekly illustrated is talked of in
Melbourne. Mint-sauce Jones is the threatened
editor.
“Beerthirst” Pan ton is a nephew of
Colonel Joseph Anderson, C. 8., who commanded
at Norfolk Island in the thirties.
It was a reporter of the London E. News
who first discover’d and brought before the world
the fact that Parnell was living with Mrs. O’Shea.
The Cha* ters Towers (Q.) Times is de-
fendant in a pending libel-suit, for saying, among
other things, that a man named Vosper has big
feet!
The Duke of Edinburgh has been running
an “Armada” celebration at Plymouth. It’s
enough to make Sir Francis Drake throw his
ashes about !
Justice Williams, Victoria, a compara-
tive young man, is just off to Europe for his
second twelvemonth leave, since becoming a
judge, not many years ago.
Premier Munro, the Victorian teetotal
Premier, attributes much of his success to his
wife. “I never gave her a shilling,” he says, “but
she made it eighteenpence.”
William O’Brien, M.P. (who will be
promptly incarcerated on his return from America),
on his wedding-day promised his bride that he
w ould never go to gaol again.
The late Thadeus O’Kane’s Northern
Miner was lately auctioned for £lO6O to W.
Black, of Townsville. The property virtually
belonged to the Queensland National Bank.
Rev. Lord Normanhy has had to resign
his rectorship (at Worsley, Eng.) because many
people journeyed to his parish to die, so that they
might have burial-service read over them by a
peer.
The latest verses of A. T. Chandler, the
S. A. bardlet, begin : “I love the moon.” He has
thus loved her in several issues, so it is to be sup.
posed that he’s just as fond of her when she’s
“full.”
Thomas Glassey, the Labour member, is
the best behaved and the best abused man in the
Queensland Assembly. Archer, of Rockhamp-
ton, is the Chesterfield of the Northern bear-
garden.
During the awful strain of his recent trial
before Chief Justice Higinbotham (his old political
chief), little Mirams walked into town three miles
every morning, to keep up his pecker, with the
umbrella over his shoulder.
Poor Lord Kilworth is dead. He was a
virtuous peer-apparent, unsullied by the lightest
breath of scandal and beloved by all who knew
him. But then he was only three years of age
when England mourned his loss.
Some enquiring person is advertising all
over the Australias for “authentic evidence as to
the parentage and place of birth ” of an Irish
gentleman who was serving in the British army
only 200 years ago, and was last heard of in 1710.
Wennecke, a South Australian surveyor,
is spoken of as a favourite for the leadership of
Elder’s expedition. He was formerly engaged in
survey work in the Northern Territory, and was
noted for a peculiar inability to recognise his own
horse.
Bartholomew Binns, the English hang-
man, was a drunken brute. Knowing this, a con-
demned prisoner, asked what he would have for
his last breakfast, replied: “Steak and onions
and coffee, and —and a clove or two for Mr.
Binns.”—Ex.
J. D. Fitzgerald, Sydney trades delegate
to London, worked as a compositor on Brisbane
Courier six years ago. Later he was a proof-
reader at Rockhampton. He is a brother of the
Fitzgeralds of “ Tbree-in-one ” circus fame.
Another brother is a capital tenor.
The wife of a certain Australian hangman
took her husband’s acceptance of the hideous office
so muph to heart that she died soon after his
appointment; and let it be added for the credit of
civilisation and womanhood, their daughter soon
afterwards followed her to the grave.
An Australian lady, who recently met
Mrs. Brigand Stanley, tells ns that Dolly isn’t a
little bit pretty. However, as the Australian
lady’s husband holds an exactly opposite opinion,
we have come to the conclusion that Dolly is not
so bad, and much too nice for the other fellow,
anyway.
ihe Duke of Marlborough takes periodical
‘HP- to America “on business.” Which means
that his wife goes to see how her properties are
getting on, and doesn’t allow his Grace to
remain behind in England. By the way, we
haven’t yet heard of Marlborough kicking his
present wife.
Panegyrists of the just-deceased Hollander
King invite us to admire the great engineering
works ho accomplished. He did them! This
kind of thing reminds you of Carlyle’s description
of Louis XV., the well-beloved, pursuing his
conquests in Flanders, with his harem, and troupe
of travelling play-actors.
B. D. More head, ex Premier of Queens-
land, went to England last week. Billy Pattisou,
ex-1 reasurer, the Mount Morganaire, who is
popularly known as “Morehead’s twin,” will
follow him very shoitly. Morehead merely
voyages for fun, but “ the twin” is said to hanker
a.ter a seat in the Commons.
Charles Gavau Duffy’s first marriage was
with Miss M’Lauchlin, in 1842, and she became
the mother of John Gavan Duffy, who is now
40 years old. In 1847 Duffy married Miss Hughes,
and he has become a widower for the third time,
all Ins marriages being fruitful. What a squeak-
ing atomy!—but they lun in all shapes, as the
tout says.
T Mrs. Jane Lockett, a rather well-known
N.&.W. writer, whose recent article on “Divorce,
from a Woman’s Point of View,” in the West-
minster Review, attracted some attention, has
just died in her 44th year,- Mrs. Lockett was a
State-school teacher by profession and bad had
bitter experiences whereon to base her matrimonial
disquisitions.
Ibsen, the Norwegian dramatist, makes
his wife copy out all his writings, and employs
her as secretary, factotum, and clerical drudge
generally. In theory he holds that a wife should
lead her own existence, but in pract ico he drives
an exhausted little woman in literary harness
without asking her opinion on the subject. But,
perhaps she likes it.
In a recent issue of a Canadian publication
appear certain portraits of D. W. B. Sladen, in
various garbs and attitudes, which give us further
proof of the ad vertising capabilities of this chame-
leonic individual. Sladen poses as a Britisher in
Australia, as an Australian in Canada, as a Cana-
dian in Japan; possibly be will eventually turn
up as a Japanese in England.
On the last anniversary of his defunct
grandmother’s birthday the Emperor of Germany
ordered a list of her charitable beauests to be
published—in the interests of “loyalty.” He
might as well have published a list of the subjects
who kept Augusta in clover all her life long, and
provided the surplus money which the old lady
so generously gave away to hospitals, &c„ on her
death-bed. Bah!
Conversation between Judge Chubb and
an aboriginal witness at Charters Towers (Q.) :
His Honor : “ You are a Christian?” Witness :
‘ Yes.” His Honor : “ You know God ?” Wit-
ness : “Yes.” His Honor: “Where is God?”
Witness: “You all same God!” Had this
occurred to Mr. Justice Pope A. Cooper he would
have regarded it as merely a neatly-turned and
well-deserved compliment.
Henry Kendall’s verses on Ninian Mel-
ville are by far the roughest lines ever written by
a well-recognised verse-writer in Australia. They
occur in a very few copies of “ Songs from the
Mountains.” The eye of the publisher caught
them on the morning of issue, and the edition was
suppressed until the obnoxious verses had been
struck out. “Ninny of the nimble tongue ” would
give something to prove the sale of a copi r .
We read that the Earl of Devon, son of a
vice-president of the English Church Union, and
brother-in-law of Viscount Halifax, president of
that body ; Sir Philip Rose, Bart., Lady Rose and
family, Lady Ellis, wife of an ex Lord Mayor;
Rev. T. P. Duthie, late chaplain to the Earl of
Kintore; Kegan Paul, head of the great publish-
ing firm; Francillon, managing editor of the
Globe ; Harrington, of tubular bell fame; and
Colonel Houghton, of Crimea and India fighting
renown, have all just ’verted to R.C.-isin.
Raking up Munro’s never - forgotten
“Never, never, never,” puts us in mind of the
“I shot a man wanst ” of the former Victorian
M.P., known as Chief Baron O’Hea, who had the
ill-luck once to travel in the train to Colao with
two strangers, who were running-down the Berry
Government, when the Baron put in his spoke
with “Jintlemin, I shot a man wanst for saying
less than you’re saying now.” This stuck to him
as long as he lived. The satirical prints were ever
chucldng up “I shot a man wanst,” so that he
could have bitten off his tongue for saying it.
Lord Rosebery was entertaining a large
party of civic magnates in the country. One of
them, whose acquaintance with the ways of
fashionable life was of the slightest, making his
first experiment with ice pudding, took an exten-
sive mouthful, and suffered agonies of chill as the
frozen mass slowly dissolved. Then he repaired
to the host and intimated that there had been
some mistake in the kitchen—the pudding had got
frozen. Rosebery listened without moving a
muscle, tasted the stuff, thanked his informant,
and said he would speak to the cook. Then he
whispered to one of the attendants, came back
with a relieved face, and told the honest farmer,
“ It’s all right. They tell me this is a new sort of
pudding that is frozen on purpose.” There is
probably, remarks the paper which tells the story,
no more perfect instance of good manners on
record. N.B. —This is a chestnut; those re-
frigerated stories keep quite fresh for a very long
time.


///f Ef Otyf " fX?? <Z ouN J R -y "
ALBERT, Tuesday .—Some indignation is ex-
pressed here at permission being granted to
Chinese by the Government to exhume bodies
of deceased relatives, the proceedings being
generally condemned as opposed to the first I
sanitary laws. _ 4 ,
The inspector ot nuisances has
decided to proceed against the Chinamen, under
the municipal bylaws, for polluting the Bun-
gambawartha Creek, and two witnesses have
come forward who saw the Celestials washing
the disitfterred bonea in the stream
Jfe //> j {//ps/fafy
oJere a//erf /or epee // /aof
<sov?e o?yp y£
su6s/7/u/e OcJafcf /of a//sfa
/? 9?
it* 1
j\ HZWELttfHT
y/rfr & V ,
'f #.t ?oss/r*Ms//r//£ J /? oU 6
°9 ? Y "fyoC ps Oou/?7 e hCLpct "aj fere
Say (Jfey Z?/ Cf/cK feJurps 7* ff
ft m
if:
h
■oStefc/ ~ fw ’&&C/AM romrAßLef
?***//*'<& ~?’*K^^*:&Se/^M:rc 9 -v/>K.y tfy <ou r Tfc <^a7Zery
CHIEFLY RELATING TO NEW SOUTH WALES.


, ®
TOFk THe-
pluE.- L , . GrH " r
T H
foK HT H SSAT
(ANJD /V) l
-SO KP>E N T O "
"She. E-NjQ>fS>
The tfm p /,
/\RfSIVECi. QU E-El-NSO- 1 F F
| DENTirI ES
ĥ
T he W. FEaWs
w
T h£ \ /so 1 ES
PE.T
i(Y s: % ic )'
■Fan\iL-Y I
S>CUiE N\& DEAPv
'Mve been on the.
02.0 ts E."'
" J US>T C Au<: = y HT
H i ps :s E> u/Ey
“DOWN THE BAY.”


The SYDNEY DEPOSIT BANK,
90 —KING STREET —9O
Established 1885.
Agencies in London and throughout Australia.
Overdrafts granted against Deposit of Deeds,
and all the usual banking business transacted.
The following are the Rates of Interest allowed
for Fixed Deposits :
3 Years 9i per cent.
12 Months ... ~ 8| per cent.
G Months 7h per cent.
3 Months ... . 5| per cent.
5 per cent, allowed on daily balance of current account.
For the past Four (4) Years a Bonus of One per
Cent, has been paid in addition to the above rates.
This is the first and only Bank in the Colonies
which divides its profits with its depositors.
Communications from the country will be
promptly attended to.
1 T. S. RICHARDSON,
General Manager
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
“Drink, pretty creature, drink.” What? The
London & Sydney Tea Co.’s pure teas.
Land at Perth, W.A., the best Investment
Plans from Intercolonial Investment Co., Ltd.
96 Bathurst-street, Sydney.
The United States is a nation of traders. Two-
thirds of the business men of the Republic use
Esterbhook’s “Falcon” Pen. Samples free at
all Stationers.
Liver complaints.—Dr. King’s Dandelion
and Quinine Liver Pills, without mercury, are a
potent —English remedy ; remove all liver and
stomach complaints, biliousness, headache, sick-
ness, shoulder pains, heartburn, indigestion, con-
stipation.
Ladies’ Silver Watches, 355. Daiims & Co., King-street
Arcade.
Tea in 201 b. and 401 b. packages at 1/6, 1/9 and
2/- per lb., delivered free by the L. & S. Tea Co.
W. H. PALING & COMPANY, LIMITED,
356 George Street, SYDNEY,
II
AVE Just Opened a Magnificent Lot of UNTe-w I^ia/txos
Also of the wonderful Victor ZEPia.xi.os at £45
from the celebrated Makers, Steinway, Erard, Hebei, Fennell, Lipp, Ronisoh, Blnthner, Collard,and others
145 and Eatev Oreans. No such Variety or Value elsewhere for Cash or Terms.
Society.
It has now, we trust, become evident
from sworn testimony in the courts that the
noble Australian who hires a private detective
to watch his wicked wife, is simply pi’oviding that
wife with another paramour, and paying that
paramour for his attentions. It reminds us of the
man who hired a cab to drive a ballet-girl home to
supper at her lodgings. Said the cabman to him,
after getting his big midnight fare : “Clear out!”
“ What do you mean?” asked the gay one. “I
mean,” said the burly cabman, “that you have
paid me for driving my own wife home. Clpar
out!”
* * *
It will be contended on behalf of plaintiff
in a forthcoming N.S.W. slander action that no
privilege legally attends slanderous statements
made in Parliament. Arguments which primd
facie are very strong will be adduced in support
of this startling contention.
* # * *
If the crowd of Australian amateur
evangelists who went off by the MeUmuir to con-
vert the Chinese Empire are a fair sample, the
persons engaged in this Sisyphean task must be a
poor lot. A less intelligent or more commonplace
looking lot of people you never saw gathered
together in a photograph.
* * *
It has just transpired that if the police are
engaged in arresting a drunken woman who kicks
and call upon you to assist them in their task, you
are bound to comply, under the penalty of being
committed for trial. How much would the aver-
age man catch hold of a drunken woman’s feet
for? (The police would be sure to offer you that
end of her.) Speaking for ourselves, we would
rather tell the police, as did those young Maitland
men, to do their dirty work themselves, and
take our chance of being sent to gaol.
* # #
The facts of the dispute—founded on an
anonymous note — between the S.M. Herald and
the Associated Shipowners would make a chapter
of merry reading. That any sane business man
should in the 19th century worry about an abusive
nameless letter instead of flipping it into the dust-
bin almost surpasses belief.
o # #
Stipendiary Magistrate Lee, of Sydney,
says that “ the police have a perfect right at any
time to enter any dwelling if they have reasonable
grounds for believing that a felony is being com-
mitted or that a felon of whom they are in search
is concealed within.” Indeed ! And, pray, what
is going to stop the honest house-father from
putting four bullets into the chest of the clumsy
policeman who gets through the window, under
the influence of reasonable but ill-founded suspi-
cions, at 2 a.m?
* * *
Ex-Governor Carington has written from
the mail-steamer a most humble letter (designed,
of course, for publication) to the effect that the
more he thinks over the matter, the more he feels
that he was utterly unworthy of the “send-off’
given him. We may inform the Baron that that
is exactly the conclusion arrived at by the com-
munity which gave the “send-off” aforesaid.
* # #
It was mentioned at a recent meeting of
the Australian Women’s Christian Temperance
Union that the fermented wine used for sacra-
mental purposes was “ abominable and accursed —
the devil in solution, in fact.” A Mrs. Fullwood
told a story of how, by some means, the unfer-
mented wine was recently forgotten at a suburban
church until too late. “ The minister in his diffi-
culty appealed to one of his members, a white
ribbonite and said, ‘ I suppose I*must not use port
wine?’ ‘Certainly not,’she replied. They tried
to make a drop of raisin wine, but were unsuccess-
ful, and as a last resort a gentleman got a tin of
raspberry-jam, poured some boiling water over it,
strained it, and produced an excellent wine, which
was used in the sacrament that night.” You can
buy raspberry jam for fourpenee a tin and hot
water is cheap enough, but what a revoltingly
prosaic religion must that be the imagination of
whose followers—generally fanatics, by the same
token —does not soar above ration-sugar and
turnip-seed ! A creed in which “ a lady ” settles
matters by saying “certainly not ”to the high-
priest, and in which “a gentleman” strains
raspberry jam in order to typify something which
is venerated by millions of Christians and adored
by millions more, is a blasphemy against the
human bump of veneration. No one is so obscene
as your frenzied religionist.
When J. Wyllie, alias the “Herd Laddie,”
the champion draughts-player, went to Queens-
land some weeks ago, the Brisbane Draughts Club
arranged to lodge him at one of the leading hotels,
where the tariff was £3 10s. per week. After he
had been there a week, the canny Scot acciden-
tally discovered the amount which was being paid
on his account to the hotel-keeper, and intimated
to the club secretary that he would rather (d’ye
ken) receive the money and pay for his own board.
Naturally the club humoured the old man and
complied with his request, with the result that,
on the following week, the Herd Laddie roosted
in a modest hash-house on Spring Hill at the rate
of £1 a week, with washing. Fact.
* » #
The “ Herd Laddie” is a very “dry-hash”
individual; the only champion that has ever
come under our notice who doesn’t smoke,
drink, swear and lie about his own prowess. He
is also a simple-minded, though acquisitive soul,
who cares little what lie eats so long as he is fed,
who usually tells the waiter, when travelling, to
bring him “ onything,” and who gravitates in his
bibulous tastes between ginger-beer and tea.
Wylie must have a very long stocking somewhere.
He charges a shilling a game for the pleasure
of playing with him, and should his an-
tagonist fail at once to dump down the
coin, says suddenly, in a hard and dispassionate
voice that jerks the needful out of the other
fellow’s pocket; “ Whaur’s yer shulllin’;” Then
he seems to close his eyes and go off in a doze till
his adversary “moves,” when with one swoop he
picks off about six of the best “men,” and again
dozes off like an alligator waiting for its prey,
while gently rattling the captured checkers with
his left hand. They invited the old man once to
play in a N.S.W. working men’s club, and paid
him £3 for the night, but when his first anta-
gonist (a burly miner) presented himself, his
battle-cry of “Whaur’s yer shullin'?” boomed
forth as usual. That night Wylie played and won
about 60 games at “a bob a nob,” and thus, by
the_ exercise of a little canniness, doubled his
takings. Wylie, Whaur’s yer shullins?
SPEECHES FROM THE AUSTRALIAN DOCK—No. 6.
STIPENDIARY (to gentleman behind the spikes on a charge of righteous conduct): “It won’t
do for you to plead that you did not know you were violating the law.
Ignorance of the law is no excuse for any man.”
PRISONER : “That’s rather rough on me an’ you, ain’t it, yer Washup?”
The latest Melbourne seduction case, in
which £350 damages were awarded to the girl’s
father, was, like about ten which have preceded
it, the outcome of after-church walks.
* * #
Asa step towards abolishing wigs and
gowns one may fairly object to that awful appa-
ratus of a scarlet Mother Shipton Richelieu robe
worn by the criminal judge, with his full-bottomed
wig, its long flappers specially designed to pre-
vent him from hearing the evidence by muffling
up his ears, so that Justice is deaf as well as
blind. On the dog-days the judge is supposed to
sit with a full suit of black under his Mother
Shipton, and then he has to get a twelvemonth
holiday for a trip to Europe, because he has not
been properly ventilated.
# # *
It is interesting to note that one of the old
residences of “Margaret Oatchpole’’stood at the
corner of Liverpool and Elizabeth streets, Sydney,
and was purchased by Dr. Renwick who pulled
down the old house and erected on the ground the
fine terrace next his private residence.
# * *
Quong Tart, the enterprising Sydney
Chinese merchant, entertained a party of
aborigines the other day at the N.S.W. Zoological
Gardens. The last time the present writer heard
of a Chinese gentleman entertaining the aborigines
was in the Far North. P.S.—The darkies picked
his bones.
# * *
An 18-year-old larrikin to whom Judge
Wilkinson gave the tremendous sentence of seven
years the other day at Sydney Quarter Sessions,
expressed the hope that the Judge would be
“ struck blind ” as soon as possible. The
Bulletin is of opinion that the law which con-
demns a mere boy to consort with cast-iron
criminals in a convict prison until he attains the
age of irreclaimability must be stone-blind already.
# * *
A tramway existed in Pitt-street, Sydney,
a generation ago. It had to be. taken up in conse-
quence of loss of life and congestion of traffic, and
yet the present Government want to re-establish
the system.
• * *
Since removing from the old police head-
quarters to the new edifice in Melbourne, a novel
system of “passing the doctor” has been in-
augurated for those applicants required to undergo
medical examination as a preliminary. After
overhauling the candidate the doctor requests him
to pass on through a door which lie specifies with
a wave of his hand. Presuming that he is to wait
for further investigations or formalities in an
adjoining apartment the patient aspirant is much
astonished on emerging to find himself in the
street, when the hideous truth in all its nakedness
dawns upon him, and with muttered execrations
he wends sadly towards the nearest public-house.
* * *
A Richmond (Melb.) man, who lives in a
£7500 house, has been ca.sa.’d for an £lB 10s.
tailor’s bill. He pleaded that he was unable
to pay a penny, being employmentless,
and that the property was his wife’s. Not
long ago, in the same locality, a man
was sued for the value of paint supplied, and
which had been applied to his wife’s house. She
pleaded that she had never authorised the pur-
chase of the paint, and that it had been procured
by her husband in his own name and entered to
his account by the tradesman while she was away.
Verdict for defendant. “ Two souls with but
a single thought ” and two separate banking
accounts.
* * *
The proposed Bill for restraining barristers’
tongues might go a little further and deal gently
with his Honor’s summing-up. Delivering judg-
ment in the Watson v. Cain case, Mr. Justice
Hood said of Miss Watson that “shehad engaged
herself to Mr. Kitz after an acquaintance of about
15 or 16 days, and was living in his house away
from her mother.” The young lady’s solicitors
explain that Mr. Kitz has no house of his own,
but lives with his brother and sister-in-law, at
whose place Miss Watson was staying as their
guest. A newspaper originating the mis-state-
ment which the judge made with impunity would
have been promptly “ pulled ” for damages, and
heavy damages, too.
# # *
His Excellency Sir William F, C. Robin-
son, the first full-grown Governor of Western
Australia, tried to get into a Melbourne tramcar
the other day while it was in motion, but missed
his footing and made an undignified exhibition of
himself in the public thoroughfare. If he had
been left to himself he would simply have turned
a somersault and fallen with a hideous “ squash ”
in the mud, but the conductor dragged him in
backwards by the hair, with his hat crushed down
over his ears, and his umbrella broken in seven
places. It was a miserable show, but a viceroy
going head first into a moving vehicle and a king
when he is drunk and standing on all fours on a
doorstep, are both weighed down by necessity,
and the laws of gravitation are too strong for
them.
* * *
A clergyman avHo recently visited Pialba,
the fashionable but priestless seaside resort of
Maryborough (Q.), was asked to officiate in the
church on the Sunday. The soul-saver replied
that he was down there for a holiday, but that, if
they really wanted him, his terms were two
guineas per sermon.
* * *
The Queensland parliamentary refresh-
ment-room has been a barred Eden to Brisbane
reporters ever since a wicked old man (who is also
an M.P.) took a scissors and partially deprived
one sleeping literary Samson of his fiery looks.
Now, any member who desires to treat “the only
reporter who ever does me justice ” has perforce
to carry the drink up to the gallery, or seduce the
reporter down to the neighbouring pub.
* * *
They say that a leading Adelaide Society
lady means to have revenge for the ’aughty con-
duct of the —let us say-governess of one of the
vice-regal residences whereby the lady aforesaid
suffered the indignity of a severe snub on a recent
brilliant occasion.
“ Hullo, pappy !” said a Sydney pressman
to another recently. “ I know what you’re hinting
at,” said the virtuous and indignant individual
thus addressed, “but it’s fhe child of the Cabinet
and they’ve simply laid a vile plot to discredit one
of their bitterest and most dangerous antagonists
It’s an Australian parallel of tb° Barnell-O’Shea
case. ”
* * *
One of the largest and most richly-gilded
house-owners and usurers in Sydney and suburbs
prefers to rent his tenements to the demi-monde
who pay fatter rents than more honest people!
The police ought to raid a dozen of his tenements
on one day, and have it publicly stated in Court
who is the owner.
» * *
Mrs. Harrison Lee stated at the Women’s
Christian Temperance Union, in Melbourne, that
when recently in a country court she had seen a
drunken woman sentenced to 12 months’ im-
prisonment by the publican who had served her
with liquor ! That could not be in N.S.W., as no
publican is there allowed to be a magistrate. But
we have seen a N.S.W. J.P. issue a prohibition-
order against a tippler, and we have seen the same
J.P. half-an-hour afterwards take sixpence from
the tippler, and, entering a public-house, buy a
drink and hand it to the aforesaid tippler outside
and that was in the town of Cowra, bedad !
* * »
What a place Melbourne is for sleep-walk-
ing women ! A widow was arrested in Fitzroy the
other evening at the midnight hour, parading the
tram-track arrayed only in her robe de nuit.
# # #
The drowning of Mrs. Maud Fleming,
aged 28, and her daughter Olga aged 10 at Rose
Bay, Sydney, through theupsettingof a dingy, when
the lady’s young son was saved by the coachman,
who was rowing the boat, and who swam ashore
with the boy 150 yards, is one of those affairs
which, for the ten-thousandth time emphasises the
fact that no woman should ever be permitted to
go out in a boat so frail that it may be capsized bv
one or two persons leaning over the side.
* * #
Should Kintore venture his trip across
Australia, he will be accompanied by Bews, the
S.A. Minister of Education. “The Gov.” is
going to purchase a camel to train on at Adelaide
Government House.
* # #
A vice-regal elopement is reported. One
of Governor Kintore’s gardeners has eloped with
a young woman attached to the household retinue.
Adelaide Government House went without dinner
on the festive occasion, but as Kmty was in
Melbourne it didn’t much matter.
* * *
There will be considerable opposition to
Kintore’s projected tour from Port Darwin to
Adelaide, especially if the long-suffering taxpayer
has to empty his pockets again. What earthly
South Australia will derive from such a
trip it is difficult to imagine, unless it will be the
amusement to be obtained by reading of the
escapades of the amateur explorers. “Kinty”
will probably throw it over when the supreme
moment comes if he has to find the necessary
“bawbees.”
# * *
It is said that one of the conditions of the
creation of anew baronetcy now is that the Bart,
to be honoured shall settle £IOO,OOO on his heir
before receiving the title.
* * *
If it be really true that a Sydney Sewerage
Board official has been sacrificed as a peace-
offering to the “ dignity ” of the Mayor of Sydney,
under the circumstances set forth in the press by
the dismissed official, no more contemptible civic
scandal has transpired for many a day. Mayor
Burdekin owes it to his own self-respect as a man
to fully acquaint the public with the facts so far
as he is cognisant of them.
# * *
Rev. S. S. Moncrieff, an Anglican clergy-
man at Moonta (S.A.), has been fined £2 and costs
for thrashing a small boy. The patfson smilingly
offered to “ take it out,” but the Bench objected.
# * *
The story goes that a certain big, leading
southern daily is shortly to find its way into a
“limited ” company.
# * *
Prince Albert Victor planted a pine tree
in Adelaide Botanical Gardens in 1881, in
“ honour ”of his visit. The pine has had a
miserable existence, is ill-grown, and voted by
visitors to be about the ugliest tree in the place.
Consequently, &c., &c.
# * #
The Melbourne Sabbatarians are again
rampant. At the Post-office people are allowed
to come on Sundays and take their own letters out
of the private boxes. Now, this, you know, is an
insidious step towards opening the Public Library.
Who knows what may be in the letters?
Literature, maybe. Then it takes people’s minds
off the kirk, thinking of their letters. A letter
may do as much mischief as the ballet.
# * *
A most objectionable thing in Melbourne
is the growth of feather-bed military titles —your
Col. Templeton, Col. Sargood, Col. Goldstein, Col.
Bombastes-Boots-Smith, Capt. Taylor, and so


Everybodynow-a-days drinks Wolfe’s Schnapps.
Wolfe’s Schnapps will do you no harm.
-THE-
AUSTRALIAN MERCANTILE
LOAN & GUARANTEE CO., LD,
HEAD OFFICE
CORNER OF YORK AND MARKET STREETS.
BRANCHES
LONDON—IIO Cannon Street, E.C.
MELBOURNE—2B3 Collins Street E.
BRISBANE—Edward and Elizabeth Streets.
NEWCASTLE 37 Hunter Street.
LONDON BOARD OF ADVICE:—
Lord Click H. Brown.
Hon. Vesey Fitzgerald.
Howard, John, Esq.
The Company grant Immediate Advances upon all Classes
of Mercantile or other Approved Securities.
Interest Allowed on Fixed Deposits
3 Months
6 Months
12 Months
3 Years
6 per cent.
7 per cent.
8 per cent.
9 per cent.
A. MILLER
Buy Wolfe’s Schnapps by the bottle.
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
“ lE* ZESOT 5 IE ZEST'S" GUIDE.”
Sent Post Free Everywhere.
GARRARD & HAMILTON, Auctioneers - - 76 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
forth' while another section of the militarians is
sensibly savage if dubbed 'n mufti with its
colonelcy and captaincy.
* # *
Now that the time approaches for the
withdrawal of all Kanaka labour, several big
Oueenslandsugar-planters andseizetheopportunity
file their schedules. Asa matter of fact, the
banks have been running five out of every six of
them for years.
# * *
jt is stated that at Cooktown the other
day the two sons of a dying woman boarded a
newly-arrived A.U.S.N. Co.’s steamer to beg for
iittle ice to soothe their mother’s sufferings—
none being procurable in the town. The boon was
summarily denied, the official appealed to growl-
ing out that somebody was always dying when he
visited Cooktown. A more influential appeal ob-
tained the ice next morning, but by the time it
reached the doctor’s hands the patient was dead.
* * *
From the periodical glimpses which the
Australian public get of the social life of Norfolk
Island, it is quite evident that the island is a place
where people have nothing to do but sing psalms,
make hot love, pray, slander their neighbours, and
drink rum whenever it is to be got.
* * *
An honest young Welshman named Ellis
Evans, probably out of work, has just got a
month’s gaol for hooting Governor Kintore outside
Adelaide Theatre Royal. Had Evans cheered
that freckled magnate all would have been well.
Hypocrisy is the only thing that pays a dividend
in this world.
* * *
A “representative” Australian took up
his quarters at a fashionable London hotel, after
careful enquiry made to prevent any loss of
dignitv through going to the wrong house. In
the hall-porter’s book his name stood with the
letters M.L.A.,” after it, and with a
feeling of awe the guardian watched him ascend
the stairs, for never previously had he seen such a
mysterious tail to a name. Following closely
upon the Australian’s heels came another guest,
a gentleman from Lancashire, the master of the
band which had just won the championship
prize in the “ Counties ” contest, and had now
been brought to town, “by request,” to play
before Her Gracious at Windsor. Asked to sign
his name also in the book, he at first demurred, as
not knowing the customs of the people amongst
whom he stayed; then he asked what all those
letters meant, but the porter really could not say,
the gentleman’s title, most likely, as they “mostly
alius ” put them in the book, but he didn’t rightly
know what “them” stood for. “And am 1 to
put my title down too ?” “ Certainly, if the
gentleman pleased,” and he signed his name with
the addition of the letters 8.8.8.8.8.8.8. r lhe
porter took one glance and retired, merely mutter-
ing, “ Well, I’m and !” The visitor remarked
that he thought, that let “the other out,” and
if anybody wanted to know any more about him,
why he was the Best Blanked Bugle Blower in
the Bolton Brass Band. But the clerk had made
some mistake about the rooms, and they were
“ really sorry ” that they were unable to accom-
modate the gentleman.
* * *
From Brisbane daily ;
ATT ANTED, by gentleman, Board and Residence
VV near town, with young widow ; no other
boarders.
We always did admire candour.
It was queer to sit in the Melbourne
Equity Court, and listen to Judge Molesworth’s
own will being put through, with the remem-
brance of the 15,000 wills which the Judge had
put through in his time. Mr. Phnnky use to rise
with “ May it please your Honor—In the matter
of the will of then old Moley would sniff his
“What? Hey?” and the name would nearly
always go down first, with the scratching quill,
as Smithers for Blithers, “ Withers ?” “ Blithers”
“ Smithers ?”
“Some of our hanging judges, writes
“Maroogaline,” “may advantageously spend a
few minutes in solemn reflection over the follow-
ing well-authenticated fact from the history of
Queensland On 26th April, 1848, Robert Cox, a
timber-getter from the Tweed River, was mur-
dered at Kangaroo Point, Brisbane. For this
murder a man named William Fife was tried and
hanged in Sydney, asserting his innocence to the
last. Then, years afterwards, a man confessed on
his death-bed, not only that he was the actual
murderer of Cox, but that he stood among the
crowd of spectators at the gallows and saw the
innocent Fife hanged ! I have recently read the
whole of the evidence taken at the trial, and it
left in me a mournful belief that the early judges
only required a fairly plausible excuse to hang
anybody. The benefit of any doubt that existed
was cheerfully given to the gallows.”
Phonetic Frauds.
The roll of martial drum, an anthem’s swell,
The shout of mirth, the shriek from prison cell,
The grating whirr of wheels, the ocean’s moaning,
A wedding peal, the solemn knell’s intoning,
The cannon’s roar, and peaceful vesper bell,
The thunder’s crash, the murmur of the shell,
A trumpet’s brazen blast, the hum of bees,
A symphony of zephyrs ’mong the trees ;
The dingo’s howl, the luring bell-bird’s note
(Becussed by bushies whom we may not quote,
What time the tinkling tune of bells remote
Seems far and near through sunrise air to float);
The Sheoaks’ holy whisper, the Cocky’s squall,
A bullock-puncher’s “ prayer,” the lulling water-
fall— _
Are but vibrations of the atmosphere—
Acoustic tricks upon the human ear.
The warhlings of the lark when skyward winging,
His gushing rhapsodies at Heaven’s gate singing
May be but feathered fits, for aught we know,
Or soaring swear-words at his mate below. _
And who can gauge the glee or sound the sigh
Concentred in the Curlew’s wild, weird cry ?
“GRIF.”
The Wide Bay and Burnett News_(Q.)
is the latest journal to declare emphatically
against capital punishment.
The Commissioner of Lunacy, says a S. F.
contemp., had to pass upon a very sad case the
other day. It was that of a stock-broker, who
conceived a singular infatuation for his own wife.
A Parisian landlord is doing his best to
combat the alleged depopulation of France. He
will only accept as tenants married couples with
children. Every time a birth takes place in one of
his houses, he gives the mother, ten francs, a
chicken and her winter coal. He is the father of
seventeen healthy children.
PRECEDENCE.
(Suppose, if you please, a Lord High Admiral in Her Majesty’s Service to have died of ennui
and over-feeding. He applies at the straight and narrow gate for admittance.)
ADMIRAL: " Before I enter will you inform me what precedence you usually accord to
an admiral in Her Most Gracious Majesty’s navy?”
ST. PETER : “I have forgotten for the moment exactly; but I know it is considerably
below that of a Salvation Army corporal.”
A DAMIRAL: “Then you will have to get along without me! ’’—(Leaves in high dudgeon
and goes to-.)
Brisbane wharf-labourers who have got
back to work are donating 25 per cent, of their
earnings to their less fortunate brethren.
The S.A. wheat harvest is estimated to
yield an average of nine bushels per acre. It is
calculated that the farmers will divide between
them about £2,500,000 as the result.
According to a Melbourne weekly a cross-
eyed “comp!” set up the sentence, “No cross, no
crown,” to read, “No cows, no cream.” Under
the heading of “ Engagements ” in the same paper,
we read; “An engagement is announced in
Sydney between ‘ Miss Orridge ’ and ‘ Mr. Rothe,’
also between ’ Mr. Rottie ’ and ‘ Miss Orrage.
At a Parisian restaurant lately an elegantly-
attired man dropped in, ate his way right through
an expensive bill of fare and drank a bottle of wine,
which ran his account up to about £3.- Then he
called for the bill, and when it was brought he
solemnly put it on the table in front of him, and
blew out his brains. Consequently the restaurateur
is £3 out, and the brains flew all over a regular
customer sitting at the next table, and irritated
him to such an extent that he now dines else-
where, which is a serious addition to the loss.
Dymock, the Sydney bookseller, tells the
following yarn -He once had a very rare book
which he exhibited one morning in the front of his
shop, in the hope that it would catch the eye of
some antiquarian. In the afternoon a gentlemanly
stranger came to Dymock with a copy of the same
book for sale. Dymock was surprised at seeing
another copy of the same work, as his was the
only one he had ever possessed. After some
haggling the bookseller and the stranger came to
terms, the latter received his cash and departed,
and the former took the book to the front to com-
pare with the other copy. Tableau ! It was gone !
Dymock had paid a rattling good price for one of
Ids own books.
From Manly Beach to Rock Lily is about
nine miles. Yet between these two points in a
district which has been settled for perhaps
30 years, you hardly see a home with a garden
attached to it. About four years ago L6on
Houreux, an industrious Frenchman, bought five
acres of swampy ground at Rock Lily, which ho
proceeded to drain and plant. Sydney people
should now visit his place that they may see of what
such ground is capable, and learn for the first time
how mere ignorance and laziness hang like a pall
upon a country which should smile with fruit and
flowers. M. Houreux, who keeps a neat little inn
where excellent meals may be had, now runs a
cheap coach-line between Manly and his hostelry.
The Austrian Government has been ex-
perimenting with the new smokeless powder in
some military manoeuvres in Hungary, and feels
bad over the result. One army was hidden among
some woodson the side of a hill, while the other
was supposed to be attacking the position, and
the stationary force pounded away for four hours
without once giving the enemy a chance to dis-
cover its position. The pale-grey uniforms were
completely lost among the trees and scrub; the
flashes were so slight that they were invisible at
ordinary range; and as for the reports they were
mixed and multiplied by the echoes till they
seemed to be everywhere, and nowhere in parti-
cular. The British soldier in his glaring, blood-
red coat will have a cheerful and refreshing time
in the next campaign. He is the most conspicuous
fighting man in the world, and unless he takes off
his clothes and goes into battle with nothing on
but his gun and his boots he is bound to be exter-
minated. But when two such armies as the
Austrians and Germans meet, the one which hides
itself most effectually will win, and if both hide
equally well then the one which sneezes first and
thereby betrays its situation must go under.
Sundry bones and other remains were dis-
covered lately on the Canterbury Plains (N.Z.),
and a local editor spreads himself on the subject
thus :
The spot where the discovery was made is lonely, deso-
late, and exceedingly dreary—just the place which seems
fitted to be the scene of a tragedy. The road winds round
the edge of a patch of dark woodland, and on the other
side is a stretch of swampy ground, while in neither
direction is a single habitation visible. Between the
fence and the swamp, hidden among the long grass and
scrub, the remains were found, &o.
There is a certain amount of descriptive power in
these lines, but still the place does not fill the bill,
and a dead body possessed of reasonable discrimina-
tion ought always to harmonise as much as possible
with its surroundings. Any common, ordinary
corpse might be satisfied to be found on the edge
of a swamp, but one that has an eye to dramatic
effect would be discovered in a cave on a murky
night, when the rain is falling with a sodden,
squashy sound among the dead leaves, and the pro-
ceedings should be accompanied, if possible, by
thumjer. Arrangements should be made for having
a blasted tree close to the spot with a raven in it.
Also the voice of a ghost should be heard in the
distance, and there should be a clanking of chains,
and a loud shriek, and a strange rushing sound in
the air, accompanied by groans. Furthermore,
the spectres of the deceased’s ancestors should
gibber among the tree trunks, unless otherwise
engaged, or detained by unforeseen circumstances,
or hindered by the weather, or incapacitated
through illness, or inability to catch the omnibus ;
and a"cold shiver—if one can be procnred—should
pervade the atmosphere. And these things having
been duly provided, wo would lay on a dull,
sickening thud of some kind—even if the thud is
an outside circumstance with no possible bearing
on the case, it doesn’t matter ; and we would have
a dismal morass in the background with a slimy
reptile attached, and then the tragic scene would
be about complete. The mangled victim who is
found under such conditions as these, and the
ordinary newspaper victim who is discovered in a
bald, uninteresting way with no surroundings
worth speaking of are two entirely distinct
victims ; and even a penny paper should be able
to appreciate the difference.
Dear Bulletin, —Your correspondent,
writing of “George’s” adventurous career, is,
although correct in his main facts, some-
times wrong in detail. Smith’s station was stuck-
up by two men, one of whom was afterwards shot
on the Etheridge. The incidents related of Smith
grappling at once with the robber, and George
clearing out, are quite true. The time Nation
(Nathan, he calls him) died was when George,
with Nation, Leonard and a black-boy, were
taking cattle over to Port Darwin. Leonard
got in to one of the telegraph-stations on the over-
land line and obtained rations and assistance to go
back for Nation, who was an old man, unfitted for
the hardship of the journey. He was dead when
the party reached him. George abandoned
the cattle and made the line higher up. Some
queer rumours were circulated at the time as to
the fiasco. Another mysterious disappearance of
a companion of George’s was on the Nicholson.
He and two men—one named Batten—were
camped on the river. Batten was in the
camp, George after the horses, and the
third man down at the water, either washing his
clothes or fishing. He stated that he saw or heard
blacks between him and the camp, and being on
foot and unarmed made off down the river towards
the nearest place where some other men were
camped. He was overtaken by George with the
horses, who said that when he got back he found
Batten dead, with his skull smashed in. It was
stated that when the native-police went out there
they could find no tracks of natives about the
spot. A black boy of George’s next made a
sudden exit from this world. He had been
barbarously punished by the gentleman in
question, so badly that some white men who
heard of it threatened to report the matter at
once to the police. That night the boy “ ran
away,” at any rate he was never heard or again.
Few who were acquainted with George and the
incidents of his Queensland career, felt much
sympathy with the “execution” of his so-called
murderers.-
CARPENTARIA.
Stand from Under.
Reader ; When you meet a runaway horse, don’t
you “give him room?” When the trams are
coming, don’t you “step aside?” If you see a
falling brick, don’t you “stand from under ? ” Of
course you do ! you are aware of the impending
danger and get out of the way. There are other
dangers though, that you are much more careless
of —you are careless of your health, you abuse
your strength perhaps in one way, perhaps in
another; it, however, all amounts to the same
thing, whenever one draws upon life’s fund so must
the vitality decline ; as the health and strength is
depleted, so must life be shortened, or made
miserable. Take warning when that tired feeling
first comes on, those intense and occasional head-
aches, those aching limbs and sleepless nights,
they are signs that the nervous system is about to
collapse and that danger is at hand, it may be
disease, perhaps insanity, perhapsdeath. Bewarned
in time, tackle the first signs, do not let debility
get a hold on your system or it may be too late.
When nature warns you that disease is about to
attack you do the same as if you saw a chimney
pot descending on your head —Stand from under.
Send to your nearest chemist or storekeeper for
Clements Tonic, and continue its use as long as
there is the slightest sign of any disorder ; don’t
think that one bottle is going to restore strength
that you have been wearing out for years. You
can’t nail patches on the human body like you can
on a barn; you must use proper means to restore
the impaired vitality naturally, and this cannot
be done in a day, but it can be and has been done
in hundreds of severe cases by a proper and con-
tinued use of Clements Tonic, a medicine that can
be depended on to cure every curable case and
that is saying a good deal.
Mr. Thomas Garrett, M.P. (N.S.W.), in speak-
ing of this remedy, says : “He has taken
Clements Tonic with very great advantage.”
Mr. Thos. Walker, M.L.A. (N.S.W.), says:
“ I have great pleasure in recommending
Clements Tonic as I have derived great benefit
from its recuperative properties, and a complete
restoration of physical and mental vigour by the
use of a couple of bottles. It has the great merit
of being pleasant to the palate, and very quick in
its effects.—Yours truly, Thomas Walker, M.P.”
W. H. East, Esq., “ Stanthorpe,” Dulwich
Hill, N.S.W., says: “I took three bottles of
Clements Tonic and am wonderfully improved,
and have no return of the excruciating headaches
since taking it. ”
Mr. W. D. Braham, the crack tailor of King-
street, Sydney, speaks of it in the highest terms
of praise.
Sydney Cunningham, Esq., 71, Watkin-street,
Newtown, N.S.W., says ; “He and his family
have used Clements’ Tonic with great success, and
strongly recommend it.”
Mrs. George Hillard, King-street, Newtown,
N.S.W., writes that she has given it a fair trial,
and can testify to its great value.
We shall be glad to furnish sufferers with the
names aud addresses of scores of our patrons who
have derived great benefit from Clements Tonic,
on application to E. M. Clements, Newtown,
N.S.W.
Full particulars and endorsements on appli-
cation to F. M. Clements, Newtown, N.S.W. ;
at Melbourne, George and George; at Adelaide,
S. A. Mutual Stores, 96 Waymouth-street; at
Wellington (N.Z.), Sharland & Cos., and Laun-
ceston, J. D. Johnstone; and all dealers every-
where.
Mr. and Mrs. Kendal were married while acting in Man-
chester, and had to appear the same night in “As You
Like It,” just as Mr. and Mrs. Chas. Kean acted “ The
Honeymoon ” on their nuptial eve. During the first act
of “As You Like It,” it oozed through the house that
Madge Robertson had married Orlando ; she got a great
call, and when she came out a gallery cupid yelled,
“How d’ye like it?” She archly looked up and ex-
claimed, “I’ll tell you when I next come round to Man-
chester.”. Madge was the youngest of 24 children by one
father and mother.
Give the London and Sydney Tea Co. one trial.
They guarantee satisfaction.


An exhilarating cordial is Wolfe’s Schnapps.
Francis Adams has been educating the
British public on Australian Labour problems
through the columns of the London Stab.
Wolfe’s Schnapps will make you a new man.
When the navvies on the Cairns-Herbertor
railway struck recently against a cut in wages,
they inutually determined to be teetotal during
jhe time they were out. Eventually they returned
to work both sober and victorious.
The popular liquor—Wolfe’s Schnapps.
The Melbourne Reform Society propose,
among other objects, to discourage the use of
alcohol, tobacco, and tea. As Ur. Knaggs, of
Sydney, in an able treatise some time ago pointed
out, tea-poisoning is one of the curses of civilisa-
tion.
Publications, &c.
IN A WEEK 100,133 CITIZENS of SYDNEY
-VISITED -
DYMOGK’S BOOK ARCADE
(Next. Royal, Hotel),
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
Thousands honoured Mr. Dymock with a visit
on Saturday night, and were delighted with the
Promenade Concert. Congratulations still con-
tinue to come in by every post. Some say it is a
boon to the city, others it is marvellous, and all
agree it is a sight well north seeing.
Haifa Million of Kooks on View!
meaning 20 miles, comprising
Law
Architecture
Engineering
Mechanical
Natural History
Political
Biography
Fiction
&0.,
History
Medical
Travel
Australian History
Presentation Books
Educational
Foreign Languages
Illustrated Books
&c.
Every book you want in any department may
be had at this vast Boole Emporium, where all
books are marked in plain figures, no one asked to
buy, no officious-librarian to interfere with you.
Everyone invited to inspect the stock.
Mr. Dymock would also like to draw the atten-
tion of business men to his unrivalled Stock of
Stationery, unsurpassed in Australia. The ladies’
wants have not been overlooked. 25 per cent, can
be saved, and a superior selection to any establish-
ment in Sydney of elegant and fashionable sta-
tionery, combined-with utility. On Sale
MUSIC nviusic MUSIC
Two and a-quarter Tons of Popular Music still remains,
and will be offered this week at
Two Shillings a Dozen I—worth 18s.
XMAB CARDS
XMAS CARDS
Five Vanloads to select from.
Surpassing all other Stock in Sydney, No Old Stock. All
this year's cards at prices that must delight and surprise all.
PACKET OF XMAS CARDS.
The Marvellous Packet will again he offered.
50 Beautiful Cards (post free), Is.; 25 ditto, 6d.
Cards from Id. to £5 each. 20,000 Booklets to select from
Eight Hours a Bay is Mr. Bymock’s Principle I
And he has, at great expense, engaged two com-
plete and efficient staffs, so that no employe will
be asked to work more than the legitimate eight
hours. Such enterprise deserves success, and Mr.
Dymock feels sure that the reading classes of
Sydney will support him in this new venture.
Books Bought, Sold or Exchanged.
Libraries Purchased.
DYMOCKS BOOK ARCADE,
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
'VTT'ANTED, Smart and Energetic AGENTS
’ who are desirous of making an easy and
comfortable income, averaging One Pound per
Day. Apply at once, as time is money.
Historical Publishing Co.,
P.O. Box 610, SYDNEY.
Shipping.
JJORDDEUTSCHER LLOYD.
IMPERIAL GERMAN MAIL.
Passengers are carried according to the requirements of
the English Passenger Acts of 1855 and 1863.
MONTHLY LINE OF DIRECT STEAMERS
from
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, and ADELAIDE,
to SOUTHAMPTON, ANTWERP, and BREMEN, via
COLOMBO, Aden, Suez, and Genoa,
taking passengers for London,
connecting from PORT SAID by DIRECT MAIL and
PASSENGER LINE to BRINDISI,
will be despatched as follows (if practicable):—
And thereafter every four weeks.
PASSAGE MONEY from SYDNEY,
£l4 to £57 10s.
COMPAGNIE DES MESSAGERIES MARI-
TIMES.
SYDNEY to LONDON.
OVERLAND FROM MARSEILLES via PARIS.
Steamers under postal contract with the Government of
France, calling at MELBOURNE ADELAIDE, KING
GEORGE’S SOUND, MAKE, SUEZ, and PORT SAID.
Passengers hooked to KURRACHEE, BOMBAY,
MAURITIUS, and EAST COAST of AFRICA.
The service is carried on by powerful steamers of 4000
tons and 3000 effective h.p., built expressly for the Aus-
tralian and New Caledonian line, which will be despatched
as follows
1
Steamers. I Commander.
AUSTRALIEN Didier .. ..
OCEANIEN 'Poydenot ..
Leave Sydney
at 11 a.m.
Leave Mel-
bourne! p.m
Dec. 27 Dec. 30
I Jan. 25, 1891 Jan. 28, 1891
And thenceforward on the 25th of each month.
Rates of passage-money to Marseilles from £2O to £65,
Including table wines and Suez Canal dues on passengers.
RETURN TICKETS issued at the following rates: —
English interpreters meet through passengers for
London on arrival of steamers at Marseilles, and accom-
pany them to Paris and Calais. N.B.—Passengers’ luggage
conveyed free of cost from Marseilles to London. For
freight, passage, and further particulars apply at the
Company’s Office, 15 Macquarie-place.
A. CONIL, Principal Agent.
Furniture, etc.
John Lawler & Sons,
Wire Mattress and Bedding Manufacturers,
Upholsterers and Cabinet Makers, Im-
porters of Bedsteads, Chairs, Furniture,
Carpets and Floorcloths,
608 George Street, Sydney.
Price List Illustrated Catalogue Post Free.
as
n
I FOLDING STRETCHER WITH WIRE
MATTRESS. For Hotels, Camps, and
Ralconys. Sizes, 2ft. 3in., 2ft. 6in., 3ft., 3ft. Gin.,
4ft. Gin. x 6ft. 2in. Price, 205., 225. 6d., 255., 275.
Gd., 30s. each.
(■•(■•Ml
Bedsteads. Half-
Tester and Four-
post, black and brass, lin.
post, extended footed!.
3ft, 30s; 3ft Gin, 35s ;
4ft Gin, 40s.
No. 1131, 2in taper foot
rail, 50s, 555, 60s.
~ 457, l|in hand pol-
ished, 60s, 70s, 75?.
~ 464, 2in taper hand
pol., 80s, 90s, 100?.
Childrens’ Cots, 255, 30s,
355, 40s, 455, 50s.
WOVEN WIRE SPRING MATRESSES
2ft 6in 3ft 3ft 6in 4ft Gin
No. 0, Single wire 10/ 11/ 12/ 12/6
No. 1, ~ ~ with ply-
strands 12/ 13/ 14/ 15/
No. 2, all double wire 14/ 15/ 18/ 20/
No. 3, all d. close woven
stronger frame ... 18/ 20/ 22/6 25/
No. 4, the national close double woven, extra
heavy wire and frames, with a division in the
centre. This style is made to suit parties
sensitive to any motion arising from the ordin-
ary spring bed, which this device entire!}
obviates. The fabric is cut through the mid-
dle so that each person has distinct and
separate sleeping arrangements; price, for
4ft 6in, 30s.
Wire Mattresses for cots
4x2, 10/; 4| x 2J, 12/; 5x 3,13 f
wm
i'r
m
Sydney
Bedding, best quality—
2ft 6in 3ft Bft 6in 4ft 6in
Paillasses, white Forfar 9/ 10/ 11/ 12/6
Mattresses, flock 15/ 17/6 20/ 25/
„ Java kapok 20/ 25/ 30/ 35/
Java kapok, extra super.,
sin. borders, d. thick. 27/6 35/ 40/ 45/
Hair Mattresses, extra
super., 2/per lb. 40/ 50/ 60/ 80/
Bolsters, hair 7/ 8/ 10/ 12/
~ kapok 5/ 6/ 7/ 8/
Pillows, kapok (lar. size) 3/6 4/ 4/6 5/
~ white Irish goose
feathers ,7/6 10/ 12/6 15/
We Manufacture a
TRADE QUALITY
BEDDING, which
we can SELL at 25
per cent, less than
the above prices, but
we do not care to
recommend it.
ħ
AWLER'S most effective DRAWING-
ROOM SUITE, comprising Full-sized
Circular Settee, two Tub Easy Chairs and six
other Chairs, may be had ebonized and gold, or
the frames polished a beautiful walnut colour.
Spring set, top stuffed hair, and covered in hand-
some silk and wool tapestry, with plush borders.
£27 10s.
u
AWLER’S fast-sell-
ing and luxurious
“ Eugene,” spring set
head and full spring set
edge and seat ; uphol-
stered in very best man-
. ner, top stuffed hair, and
covered in first-class fancy cretonne, £3 19s.
LAWLER’S “Easiest
of Easies ” —the most
comfortable Easy Chair
made; spring set, splen-
didly upholstered, stuffed
all over, and covered in
Artistic Cretonne, £3 3
If in Repp, £3 15
If in Leather, £5 0
h
ĥ
CO U C H. - Stained
and polished Wal-
nut or Mahogany and
covered in leather cloth
and castored, £ll2s Gd.
If in best cretonne, £llss
repp, £2 2s 6d ; hair-cloth, £2 15s 6d.
FOR HALL and LIBRARY FURNITURE,
Dining and Drawing-room Furniture, Bed-
room and Kitchen Furniture go to LAWLER’S,
608 George-street, Sydney. Write for estimates.
Enquiries answered - and ‘prices
quoted immediately upon receipt of letter.
JOHN LAWLER & SOUS,
608 George Street, Sydney.
Amusements.
JJER MAJESTY’S THEATRE.
Lessee and Manager Mr. Geo, Rignold.
Doors open at 7. Commence 7.45. Carriages at 10.40.
A PHENOMENAL AND UNQUALIFIED SUCCESS.
EVERY EVENING, at 7.45,
TBE MERRY WIVES OF WINDSOR.
Box Office at Theatre from 10 to 5. Prices as usual.
J. P. Macdonald, Acting-Manager.
CRITERION THEATRE.
Under the Management of Messrs. Brough and Boucioault.
Acting Manager ... Mr. H. J. Magee.
IMMENSE SUCCESS! IMMENSE SUCCESS!
of the
Brough-Boucicault Comedy Company
in the Latest and Greatest London Success, where it has
just completed a most successful run at the Avenue
Theatre, and in which
MISS MYRA KEMBLE
will make her reappearance after an absence of two years,
entitled,
Dr. 3E3i.11. Dr, Bill.
Prices—ss, Ss, 2s and Is. Box Plan at Nicholson's.
Theatre royal
Lessee Mr. S. Lazar.
Treasurer Mr. Geo. L. Goodman.
Under the direction of Mr. GEORGE MUSGROVE.
LAST NIGHTS! LAST NIGHTS!
of
Mrs. POTTER and Mr. BELLEW
in
LA TOSCA. LA TOSCA.
Prices of Admission—ss., Ss. and ONE SHILLING.
CYCLO R A M A.
The Battle of Gettysburg.
Just added. New and Wonderful Effects: —Bugle Calls
Cannonading, Musketry Firing. Military Band every After-
noon and Evening. The Battlefield by Night: Gathering
up the wounded in the gloom of night. The Dead March.
The Storm: Thunder, Lightning, Rain. Special effects,
3 and 8 p.m. No matter if you have seen the Cyclorarna
before, come again and see the wonderful effects. Bring
the children.
LECTURES HOURLY. OPEN DAILY, 10 to 10.
ONLY A SHILLING NOW!
Children Half-Price.
GRANDEST SIGHT IN AUSTRALIA.
jg O N D I AQUARIUM.
Lessee and Manager .... ALFRED WYBURD.
OPEN HAY AND NIGHT.
The Most Popular
PICNIC and PLEASURE GROUNDS op AUSTRALIA.
The Famous Switchback Railway.
Splendid Asphalt Open-Air Skating-Rink Free to Visitors.
Admission, Is.; Children, fid. Trams to Gate—Fare, 4d.
QOO G E E PALACE AQUARIUM.
Lessee Wm. Labmour.
Grand Classical and Sacred Concert every
SUNDAY AFTERNOON at 4 and SUNDAY NIGHT at 8.
Select Dance every Wednesday Night at 8.
Grand Complimentary Benefit on Saturday Afternoon,
13th December, to the well-known athlete,
IV. F. CORBETT.
Come and see the Wild Buffaloes, Spanish Donkeys,
Sharks, Eagles, Kangaroos, 500 Fish, &c., &c.
mHE NOAH’S ARK! Gilbert J. Smith,
Wig Maker, Theatrical and Fancy Costumier,
Wigs, Historical and Fancy Dresses, Tights, Stage Jewel-
lery, and every requisite for Stage or Ball for Sale or Hire
or Made to Order. Estimates given for Dressing or Staging
Operas, Dramas, Comedies, Bazaars, Carnivals, etc., etc.
Grease, Paints and Make-up of every description. Country
orders receive prompt attention.
GILBERT .1. SMITH, Theatrical Costumier,
(opposite Criterion Theatre,)
297 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Miscellaneous.
LUKS’ VICTORIA HOTEL,
Auckland, N.Z.,
Still in the hands of the old and well-known proprietor.
Bound to no man. Only the choicest liquors.
Scrtlmayr’s Bavarian “Spateu,” “Export”
ami “Tafcl” Lager— SPECIALITY.
K
ATOOMBA
FAMILY
JOSEPH NIMMO
HOTEL.
First-class Accommodation for Tourists and Families
Wires and Letters o be addressed “ Proprietor.”
Arrangements can be made to provide transit for persons
wishing to view the celebrated Jenolau Caves and
other places of interest.
LADIES,
CONSULT the Eminent
Specialist,
Dr. SPEER, 20 York-st.,
Sydney.
PILLS (Guaranteed), 55.. post free.
JAPANESE & INDIAN SHOW-ROOMS,
325 George Street, Sydney. 325
(Next Elvy's Music Warehouse).
Inspection Invited.
Japanese and China Silks and Crepes, Screens, Tables,
Fans, Curtains, Trays, Easels, Quilted Silk Dressing Gowns
Cotton Crapes, Piano Drapes, Blue Cloth for Dresses and
Suits, China, Tea Sets, Cabinets, etc. Miss Nellie Stewart’s
Miss Janet Achurch’s, Mrs. Brown-Potter’s and Mr. Bellew’s
Photos.
A. DOWSE A CO., 325 George-st., Sydney.
AS MAN lA. Messrs. FI TZGERALD
BROS., Launceston, Sole Wholesale Agents
for the sale of The Bulletin and “A Golden
Shanty,” Price, One Shilling ; Postage 3d. extra.
“ Primrose’s ” Christmas Prize Com-
petition.
AME the 12 Most Suitable Gifts for Christ-
_l3i mas or New Year. Ist prize, handsome
Marble Timepiece, value £5; 2nd, Gold Brooch
and Earrings, value £3 10s; 3rd, Gent’s Silver
Watch, good timekeeper, value £2 ss ; 4th,
Pictorial History of the World, value £llos ; sth,
Strong Leather Portmanteau, value 15s. Is each
guess; 3 guesses 2s stamps. Entries close January
3rd. Winners advertised January 6th. “PRIM*
1 ROSE,” Park-street P. 0., Sydney.
N
Furniture, &c.
EWT O N AND LAMB,
FURNITURE and PIANOFORTE
WAREHOUSEMEN,
CABINETMAKERS, UPHOLSTERERS
AND
BEDDING MANUFACTURERS.
SHOW ROOMS AND MANUFACTORY:
SPRING AND O’CONNELL STREETS.
FULL SUITES for DINING-ROOM-SIDE
BOARD, DINNER WAGGON, TABLE
OVERMANTEL, COUCH. EASY CHAIRS
CARVING CHAIRS and DINING CHAIRS
all to match. Newton & Lamb.
ELF-ADJUSTING HAMMOCK CHAIR
Patented.
This chair adjusts itself to any position, from
sitting to reclining and vice versa, at the will of
the occupant. It is simple yet ingenious in its
construction; works automatically. The above
cut represents only two of the numerous positions
that can be obtained instantly, and with but little
effort. It fits perfectly every part of the body,
and gives the occupant entire rest. We can now
supply portable suspension Stands to enable the
Chair to be used anywhere. Price, with Stand,
305.; without Stand, 255.
Packing in canvas, if required, 2s. 6d. extra.
Drawing-room suites, Fashionably
Upholstered, at all prices.
CCASIONAL TABLES in all Wo-kU Ldi.
mense variety of designs; also, elegantly
finished in Embroidery, Plush, &c. Newton and
Lamb.
LETTER FILING CABINETS (Amberg’s)
all letters found instantly : no endorsing or
indexing.
STB
Drawing-room
cabinets.
Early English
CHIPPENDALE DESIGNS.
Newton & Lamb.
h
WALNUT FALL
FRONT PEDESTAL
WRITING DESKS, of vari-
ous sizes, fitted with Shelves,
Moveable Pigeon-holes, Slid-
ing Trays, Stationery, Draw-
ers, revolving’ portable triple
Inkstand. Receptacles for
—— Stamps, and Ruler and Pen
Racks. Outside Drawers divided into compart-
ments by movable partitions to admit of enlarging
or diminishing the space when required. Locks
automatically. One of the most useful, commo-
dious, and perfectly-planned articles for the Library
or Office yet produced. Admirably suited to the
necessities of professional and business men.
WALNUT FALL FRONT SINGLE
PEDESTAL WRITING DESK.-
Intemal arrangements almost identical with the
description given above. Price only £l2 10s.
B
OAED-ROOM TABLES, all sizes.
T> EVOLVING OFFICE CHAIRS, with
Jit; Adjustable Spring Backs.
Enclosed office washstands and
FITTINGS.
ĥ
'RON SAFES,
Various Sizes.
Newton and Lamb,
Spring & O'Connell
Streets.
ħ
Tj EDS BEADS, all siz
Nickel-plated and Black and
Brass. Great variety.
Bedding. —All descriptions
at lowest rates.
Ne w ton & La mb.
h
STRING MAT-
TRESSES (Woven
Wire), best make; also,
Spiral Spring.
Trice, from 7s. 6d. each-
CHEAP FURNITURE.—Pine Tables, from
10s. ; Dining Tables, from 20s. ; Kitchen
Dressers, from 225. (id.; Wash stands, from 12s. 6d.;
Chests of Drawers, from 405.; Wardrobes, from
80s.; Cedar Cheffoniers, from 30s. ; Cedar Side-
boards, from £3 35.; Clothes Horses, from
Bs. Gd. ; Writing Tables, with drawers, from 23
EWT O N
AN D LAM B.
FURNITURE and PIANOFORTE
WAREHOUSEMEN,
CABINETMAKERS, UPHOLSTERERS
AND
BEDDING MANUFACTURERS.
Show Rooms and Manufactory:
SPRING and O’CONNELL STREETS.


Notice to Artistic and Literary Contributors
Strictly Original matter contributed to The Bulletin
will be paid for. The Editor will he glad to receive and
consider contribution* a* under : —
1. Original humorous or political matter , illustrated or
otherwise. ( Drawings must be made in clean lines
of Indian ink on white paper or Bristol-board.)
$. Unpublished anecdotes of living celebrities, or people
who ought to be celebrated,
g. Humorous poems (from eight to forty-eight lines pre-
ferred ).
It. Serious poems, of similar or greater length, especially
those suitable for pictorial illustration.
5. Short Australian or other stories, up to, say, SO
words. About half that length, or even less, toil
be preferred.
All Contributions must be Written Legibly, on One
Side Only of the paper, and folded, not rolled. 'I he
name and address of the writer must appear, in all
cases, on the MS. itself, and not merely on an accompany-
ing letter or paper. The Proprietors do not hold them-
selves responsible for Rejected Contributions; but, if
accompanied by a stamped and addressed envelope or
wrapper, every effort will be made to return them.
The Editor does not undertake to enter into any
correspondence respecting rejected Manuscripts.
Insist upon having Wolfe’s Schnapps.
A male Australian has been complaining
in the press concerning the unfitness and un-
suitability of men’s evening dress as worn in these
times. At a recent local large ball he chanced to
accost one of the invited guests as “ vyaitah !” lie
advocates as a preventive against similar mistakes
in the future some change being made in the cos-
tume of either the master or his servants, adding
that “a crying abuse of this kind need on'y to be
thoroughly realised in order to meet with the
necessary reform.” No doubt it must greatly im-
pair the amour propre of those useless persons
who happen to be mistaken for members of the
operative classes, but as the man who presumes on
the poverty of his fellow men to impose tasks
upon them which he would refuse to return in
kind, is simply a callous slave-driver, such injured
feelings are really of small account, after all.
When Pere Loti, on the occasion of his servants’
marriage, kindly gave the wedding party the use
of his mansion for the nonce and personally
attended on the bride and bridegroom, he struck
a chord which powerfully reverberated in the
affections and respect of his faithful servitors, and,
given a few more Pere Lotis’, the cause of Socialism
would be seriously retarded. To some it may seem
unaccountable that a waiter should differ extrin-
sically in no wise from a millionaire, and more so
that viewed intrinsically the menial should
display far higher quantities than his master.
To remedy this unfortunate circumstance, which
has so subversive a tendency towards the old order
of things, society proposes to compel the lacquey
to don a livery or else to place a label on the breast-
plate of the boss, in order that mistakes or ‘‘cry-
ing abuses” need not occur again. Vain and
foolish, though you paint the host blue and the
attendant yellow for discriminative purposes the
fact will ever remain that the servant is as good as
his master, and just now when the current of
events is drifting rapidly towards a point where
all social anomalies will fuse, it behoves those
possessed of exceptional privileges to keep a
watchful eye on their words and actions, and to use
their advantages tenderly, and nowhere presume,
otherwise the climax may be hurried and convulsive
instead of peaceful. The more accentuated the lines
of demarcation between the classes and the masses
the greater the indignation and animosity
engendered. It appears, therefore, advisable to
drop the dress-suit and livery business, and tp
remember in the future that if a guest should be
taken for a w r aiter, the compliment is, if anything,
on the side of the former. An ex-Duke of France
has filled the function of at a common
restaurant, and one of the greatest scoundrels
unhung posed as host to Napoleon 111, amongst
whose menage the most depraved waiter was im-
measurably his superior.
Buy Wolfe’s Schnapps by the bottle.
HE WAS SAVED.
I’ts no use for people to run
For Dr. Brown or Dr. Dunn,
Or Dr. Black or Dr. White,
Or Dr. Gray with all their might.
The Dr.’s come, they look and wonder,
Shake their heads, pause and ponder;
One proposes that he be bled,
No, leached you mean, another said.
Clap on a blister, roars another,
No, cup him, or trapan, brother.
The patient now looks very queer,
Hk yells ecu St. Louis Lager Beer.
Try the great American temperance diink, Sarsa
parilla and Iron Water, at Star and Gaiter Hotel
ind City Catering Company.*
Colemank and Sons sugar-coated Eucalypte
Pills. A 1 o, Eucalypte Lozene's. T>-v them.
EVERY HOUSEHOLD— especially where
tuere are young cnildren—should ho provided
with Ayer’s Cherry Pectoral, the prompt use of
which has saved innumerable lives. Its effect
is Immediate and certain. It stops coughing, pro-
motes expectoration, and soothes the.irritated
membrane. The most famous and successful
Coughi-dure
lu the world, it has no email as a remedy for
asthma, bronchitis, inflamed tonsils, loss of
voice, whooping-cough, croup, and the sudden
inrinonary complaints to which children aro
liable. Taken in the early stages of consump-
-on, u often euros that disease and always
Checks its progress; and even at a later period
m the malady, it relieves the distressing cough
and induces needful repose, a safe, palatable,
and economical medicine, Ayer’s Cherry Pecto-
ral should be always at hand in case of an un.
foreseen and sudden emergency.
Ayer’s Cherry Peclora!,
Pit BI’A BED BV
fr. J. C. AYER & CO., Lowell. Mass., U. S. A,
Sold by Druggists and Medicine Vendors.
One Koucharsky, professor of medicine at
St. Petersburg, is said to have concluded a
brilliant lecture on the use and abuse of acids by
pouring a few drops into a phial, and requesting
his class of students to remain for two minutes
and see a man die. Whereupon he swallowed the
contents of the phial, counted two minutes by his
gold repeater, and died according to promise. The
students remained “speechless and motionless”
whilst the tragedy was enacted, and the professor
mi
SsSkB®“BB
eight Length 4 " 10’- Depth 2-.1-.
o
AUNG %0
(LIMITED)
‘rs the -most complete and perfect Instrument ever offered at the prion,
X ~ Seven Octaves. Fuji Trichord. Iron Frame, latent Check Action.* BtW
I'm Flate. Cross-Strang, requiring only the minimum of tuning, s The ton.'
to powerful, clear brilliant and puna/ In very'elegant Black and (Sold ut
Walnut Cases. • "
This Piano'hT introduced by W, n. PALIXG ft CO, Liurrtn fa, tha
purpose of meeting a long-felt demand for a good, reliable instrument at an
easy price, and thereby giving to the bead of almost every household an
opportunity of supplying his home with a fireWdass Piano at a pn« heretofore
i paid for t mnr.fr Inferior instnunaiL ' a
has been speechless and motionless ever since.
Here endeth the acid drops story, wlrch is
apocryphal on the face of it. A man of that
description would only take poison for love or
jealousy, and then he would take it in the
woman’s presence, with a view to making her feel
creepy. Unless, indeed, he was utterly tired of
existence, in which case, however, he would surely
not have further worried himself by the delivery
of a lecture preparatory to his suicide.
Wolfe’s Schnapps—It is grand.
“ Revivalism,” deposed Coroner Youl in
the Kits case, “ is certainly a sign of insanity.”
At the recent “reconciliation ” service in
St. Paul’s, London, which was intended to purge
that majestic tabernacle from the after-effects of
somebody’s suicide, the Bishop said “they knew
not whether any sin of the deceased contributed
to the confusion of brain which ended in his des-
troying himself, but they were all miserable sin
ners and ought to ask the Almighty to look favour-
ably upon their worship so that they might feel
the more deeply what was the meaning of that
mysterious evil which every now and then showed
itself in such acts as this.” No medical man
happened to be present, perhaps, or he would have
crushed the Bishop with the information that
religion is accountable for as much of the world’s
insanity as rum.
?-,r
\Vre like S&polio.-They waste
themselves to make the world
brighter. SAPOLIO is the
electric lijghtof'house-deaning-
and old methods are not the easiest by far. Many people travel them
because they have not tried the better way. It is a relief from a sort
of slavery to break away from old-fashioned methods and adopt the
labor-saving and strength-sparing inventions of modern times. Get out
of old ruts and into new ways by using a cake of SAPOLIO in your
house-cleaning. J
SOLD BY GROCERS, CHEMISTS, AND IRONMONGERS.
Shopping by Post
tke: celebrated
ORIENT GLOTHBUG
FOR
Boys’ and Men’s
Summer Wear
First Quality, Men’s Tweed Suits - SSs.
Extra Quality, do. do. 40s.
Special Quality do. SOs.
Send for Samples.
SEND FOR Ik
ksra igf
POST FREE.
GEORGE STREET,
Opposite G.P.O.
SYDISrE‘Y'.
I JONES &
ORIENT CLOTHIERS
■>
All Parents should try the
CLOTHING for their Boys’
School and Best
'Wear.
TATTERSALL’S
if|lB9B-MONSTER CARRINGTON STAKES-1890|S <
" v . ” ‘
):(
£50,000; SO each <1 50,000
700 EXTRA *7OO
“ TATTERSALL,”
C/o GEORGE ADAMS, “ TattersallV 5 Sj'dney, N.S.W,
REGISTER YOUR LETTERS and ADDRESS
-Aches
limbs
clown your
and
your
RHEUMATISM, NEURALGIA
• OR KINDRED ILLS
BETTER HAVE.
W
p k*
J
<:
■J*
■N '
JPJRITONS IN NYASS ALAND.
SOUTH-EAST AFRICA.
Livingstone, Lake Nyassa, East Central Africa,
Karonga,
26th Feb., 1889.
Gentlemen, —At the urgent request of a friend
in Africa, I have been persuaded to write you
regarding one of the Waterbury Watches, which
I wear every day, and can recommend for time-
keeping ability. It has been in Africa for three
years, travelled from London to Zanzibar, from
Zanzibar to Lake Tanganyika, from Lake Tan-
ganyika to Lake Nyassa. It has been twice under
water in African rivers, had at least two falls,
and been severely handled by many natives, many
of whom look upon it as something marvellous.
Once it was taken down when the spring leaped
from the case, giving us all a fright, and lay some
yards off, a giant thing of many feet in length.
In the fights we have had at Nyassa with the
Arabs, it has been with me in several engage-
ments. Notwithstanding all it keeps good time,
and it is not rivalled by yaluable watches. For
wear and tear and time-keeping in a rough country
like Africa, I think th c re is nothing better.
Believe me, gentlemen, most respectfully yours,
David Kewe Cross, M.8.C.M.,
Ordained Missionary, Livingstonia.
The Waterbury Watch Co.
P.S.—The watch is one of your humblest.—
D.K.C.
CAUTlON.—lntending purchasers of the
genuine article should note that every watch
manufactured by the Waterbury Watch Co., has
the word “WATERBURY ” printed in fine type
upon the dial-face, and also the interlaced letters
W. W. Co., without which none is genuine.
White. Pure*
Tshmere
ouquet
Toilet Soap.
Colgate zt co.
TOILET SOAFS & PERFUMERY
The name and trademark of COLGATE and
CO. on each article assures purchasers of superior
and uniform quality. Their various exhibits re-
ceived the HIGHEST AWARDS at London,
1887, Newcastle 1887, Ostend 1888, together with
GOLD MEDAL, Paris, 1889. “ Unexcelled in
quality and perfume.”
DR. SCOTT’S Electric Hair Brushes will
positively CURE Nervous Headache or
Neuralgia in five minutes, if used according to
directions. In ordinary everyday use they will
promptly arrest falling hair and baldness, dan-
druff, and diseases of the scalp, and make the hair
grow long and glossy. These beautiful brushes
are made with pure bristles—not wires, which
injure the scalp and cause baldness and irritation.
Illustrated price-list of Dr. S ott’s Genuine
Electric Appliances posted free to any address on
application to the
Pall Mall Electric Association^
56 MARGARET STREET, SYDNEY.


Companies.
STic ItrUish and New South Wales Investment
and Financial (Jo., liinilted.
Incorporated under the Companies’ Act, 1874,
Capital, £250,000.
Sydney Office: 246 PITT STREET.
T)ILLS DISCOUNTED and Immediate Advances granted
Daily. Country communications promptly attended
to. The following Rates of Interest are allowed for Fixed
teposits'
3 Years
12 Months
6 Months
S Months
10 per cent.
9 per cent.
8 per cent.
7 per cent.
fith a Guaranteed Bonus on Renewals of Twelve Months
and over.
By order of the Board.
0. E. OUTTEN, Acting Manager.
THE
Australian Banking Company
Of SYDNEY.
Authorised Capital, £250,000, in 50,000 Shares of £5 each.
Capital Paid-up, £100,300; Capital Subscribed, £150,000.
Fd Office i Pitt I Market Streets, Sydney.
Board of Directors;
Francis Abigail, Esq., M.P., Chairman; Add. S. O. Davison,
J.P.; T. H. Hassell, Esq., M.P. ; William Bull, Esq., J.P. ;
Robt. Cunningham Esq.
GOULBURN BRANCH : AUBURN STREET,
O. H. Atkinson, Manager.
A dividend at the late of 10 per cent, (the last) declared
on July 29, will be payable on and after the 14th_August.
The Bank transacts all usual banking business in every
particular. Board days. Wednesday and Friday. Special
advantages granted to Commercial Clients. Overdrafts
granted against deposit of Deeds without mortgage.
The Highest Rates of Interest given for
Fix&d Deposits.
Interest allowed on Current Accounts calculated on the
Minimum Monthly Balances.
By order of the Board of Directors.
RODERICK M’NAMARA, General Manager.
THE WAY TO WEALTH.
The way to wealth is as plain as the way to market.
The majority of the wealthy men of Sydney, Melbourne
and Brisbane made their money by buying land in these
capital cities while it was low in price, and before these
cities were so large and populous as at present.
Western A.u.s t r alia
is the coming colony. Her Capital City will become
a second Melbourne or Sydney.
If you want to make money, buy land
there now. It is a good spec.
GRAND BUILDING SITES AT PERTH,
WESTERN AUSTRALIA,
FROM £lO TO £5O.
TERMS, jrom £1 Deposit. Very easy payments.
NOTE-—The allotments offered are in picked posi-
tions, they have been inspected by us, and are guaranteed
good.
Write for Marked Plans to
The INTERCOLONIAL (Western Australian)
INVESTMENT COMPANY, Ltd.,
86 BATHURST STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
W. J. DOUGLAS, Manager.
Medical.
D IS EASES
OF THE
EYE, EAR. NOSE.
THROAT &c.
enuine cures of
DEAFNESS, BLINDNESS, &c.
READ what the South Australian Religious Press say
concerning Dr. RAYMOND’S Skill and Treatment
“ During his residence in this colony we have had full
opportunity of making Mr. Raymond’s acquaintance, and
of observing the cures he has performed, and we have no
hesitation in saying that in our opinion he is a genuine
man and a skilled physician. We have come personally
into contact with a number of pel-sons that have been
cured by him of eye and ear diseases of a complicated and
difficult character, so that we speak from actual know-
ledge and observation. Professor Raymond is a botanic
physician ; he uses no mineral drugs, and his treatment is
painless and uninjurious.”— The Christian Colonist,
Adelaide, 1889.
The FOLLOWING CURE that has just been EFFECTED
in SYDNEY not only supports what has been done else-
where, but illustrates the superiority of Dr. RAYMOND’S
method of combating difficult and complicated affections
of the Human ear, ,
“To Dr. RAYMOND, Aurist, Oculist, and Botanic
Physician. . T , . ,
“Dear Sir, —In response to your request, I desire to
publicly testify to the benefit I have received from your
treatment. You have considerably improved my hearing
and general health, although I had previously been under
the treatment of one doctor in Sydney, and been in con-
sultation with several others. I had also used Nicholson's
ear drums, lotion and nose powder, and without receiving
the slightest benefit therefrom. You have treated my
case, nose and throat deafness, botanically, and, in my
opinion, your system is the right one—you, at the same
time attacking the root of the disease with internal treat-
ment. I shall be happy to answer any enquiries as to the
benefit I have received whilst under your treatment.—
Yours, very truly. H. TAYLOR, Palisade Hotel, Millers
Point,’November 14th, 1890.”
Dr . G-. H RA.YMOBT3J,
THE EMINENT SPECIALIST IN
Diseases of the Eye, Ear, Nose & Throat,
AND PROFESSOR OF MEDICAL BOTANY,
Author of “ A Treatise on the Diseases of the Eye and
Ear ” “ A Practical and Scientific Disertation on the Merits
and Demerits of Artificial Ear Drums,” “Giving Sight to
the Blind,” &c., may now be consulted at
62 WYNYARD-SaUARE, SYDNEY. N.S.W.
■ ■
s*. : "! '
HOTEt j ■ ■*~y^
*£ :
.
||,J v • '•■■< ■ ■ ■■ " .■• ■ *
' 4J"
Roya l E5Cc.-fc©ll T. BROWN, Proprietor. [Ftandwicli.
Specially adapted for Families. Trams Stop at Door.
Aarons’ Excbange Hotel, Sydney
aw
*
II
.
m
■
mi
■
tIfCTSIO PHOTO-EMfli OQ-«J.BBipCt.~ST.<_Byjl>H<»
Adjoining the Sydney Exchange.
Mining, Financial and General Mercantile Intelligence
Posted several times BAILY in the Building 1 .
TELEGRAPH, POST and MONEY ORDER OFFICES on the PREMISES.
This Hotel has been thoroughly renovated and re-furnished, and is now unrivalled for comfort
and attention.
Aarons’ Exchange Hotel Co. (Limited), Proprietors.
X3o You Bmolse 7
If treat vourself to an article so far above all other brands in quality and flavour that it cannot be
cxSec? The Tobacco we want you to try is the “ DEAD BIRD ” brand. In colour it is a rich
dark brown and is the finest quality of American tobacco ever introduced. We only ask you to send
for a single plug or a Jib. packet of the Long Cut, and after having once tried it, you will never
.'."it for any other brand. We can send you a small parcel of the tobacco in any form-as a
Mixture Long Cut, or Curly Cut, for pipe only. This particular cut does not require any rubbing up.
’ We can send you any size plug from an ounce to a pound weight.
For 11b. Plugs
For Long Cut, Jib. pkts.
61-
7/-
}
PRICES :
Single Plug, as sample, |lb ... 1/6
Single Packet, as sample, |lb ... 2/-
Send Slumps' for any of these amounts, and we will forward to any part of N.S.W. (post free.)
CRAIG & AITKEN, 680 George Street, Sydney.
JONES’ SEWING MACHINES,
FOR THE BOOT AND TAILORING TRADES.
THE BEST MANUFACTURING MACHINES IN EXISTENCE.
Now Perfected, the New No. 3 and No. 4 Machines on an Entirely New System.
STOCK JUST LANDING.
Farleigli, HXTettSieim, & Oo ?
TANNERS AND LEATHER MERCHANTS,
16 + YOEK -r STREET, + SNT ID ZUT IE NT.
Sole Agents for the above for New South Wales and Queensland.
, .r, , ■ unnT MANUFACTURING TRADE in all Details, including MACHINERY,
IMPORTED /eATHKHS &e.; and of the following Spkciai, Links: Peerless Glois, Sal In I'otish. Nubian
IMPORTED I Tools and Materials. t&“ Indents Executed on Favourable Terms
Medical.
or the Liquor Habit (in any form) POSITIVELY
and RAPIDLY CURED by administering
the world-renowned
“ GOLDEN SPECIFIC,”
prepared according to the formula of DR. HAINES
It can be given in a cup of coffee or tea, or in f uul | eiH
WITH OR WITHOUT THE KNOWLEDGE of the Patient h
necessary ; it is absolutely harmless, and will effect a permanent
and speedy cure, whether the patient is a moderate drinker orV,,
alcoholic wreck. IT NEVER FAILS. THOUSANDS Prove
IT. It operates so quietly and with such certainty that tl
patient undergoes no inconvenience, ami ere he is aware ) !
complete reform is effected. Write for Rook, sent with' full
particulars and Colonial testimonials free by return. 1
BEWARE of worthies i imitations and plagiarisms of
our Advertisements. We have no Agents.
Note our Sole Address :
GOLDEN SPECIFIC CO.
145 & 147 Collins St., MELBOURNE, Vi c .
ffIfrOSESB
N.
9.
■
m
y .
r
mmM
IBS
es;t
rPHIS valuable Lotion is guaranteed to cure SWELLING
1 and SANDY BLIGHT, INFLAMED EYES and LIDS
DIMNESS OF SIGHT, &c. It will be found very bene-
ficial and cooling to those who have weak eyes, or whose
work compels them to strain their eyes. Highly
recommended by the leading Oculists.
Manufactured only by the Proprietor,
.A.. ROSE
Dispensing and Manufacturing Chemist,
531 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Wholesale by the Proprietor and all Wholesale Houses.
Established 1858. By Post 3s. Gd.
Manufacturer of Dr. SOUTHAN’S GOUT and
RHEUMATIC PILLS.
Is a pure, fragrant, non-gritty tooth powder, and
warranted free from acids or other ingredients which
destroy tho enamel; it whitens tho teeth,prevents and
arrests decay, strengthens, the gums, and gives'#
pleasing fragrance to tho breath.
a soothing, healing and emollient milk for the face
and hands, and is moat cooling and refreshing to the
skin in hot climates ; it removes freckles, tan, sunburn,
roughness and redness of tho skin, pimples, cutaneous
eruptions, &0., soothes and heals prickly heat, stings
of insects, eczema, burns, and all cutaneous irritation
more effectually than any other preparation, and pro-
duces soft fair skin, and a lovely delicate complexion;
It is warranted harmless, and free from any lead or
poisonous ingredients.
ROWLAND’S EUKOKIA,a fragrant toilet, warranted free from
bismuth or metallic ingredients, which ruin the com-
plexion ; in three tints—white, cream, and rose. Aar
any chemist or druggist for Rowland’s articles.
ri
UTION.
, The extraordinary repula’tion of Rowland sMacaEß
Oil, Kalydor and Odonto, induces some shopheep r
offer spurious imitations under the lure of being P>
the principle on which each is prepared is e
solely to the knowledge of A. Rowland & Sons, >
Hatton Garden, London, and therefore it >8 highly
necessary to. buy no Macassar Oil. Kalydor o 1
except those made by them, and which bear tnei
name in red ink on the wrappers.
SUFFERERS, fromi secret or
other causes, consult PROFESSOR
MUMFORD. You will not regret it, but con-
sider it a blessing you saw this notice. 21 Bounce-
st. East, near White Hart Hotel, Melbourne.
Business Announcements.
r ) v
‘digraph'
f cp cjjl
MARK
40,000 in Use. Record, 170 words per minute.
Used by almost every Government Department in ®
tralasia, and in all the leading newspaper offices.. tas
intelligent person may learn to write in a week as .
with a pen, and twice as fast in a month. Fdteen
copies maybe struck at one time. Agents rst
J. E. Cunningham, Official Shorthand \\ riter, h>
Chambers, Elizabeth-st.; MELBOURNE; 0. S. Cu'tnw-
ham, Shorthand Writer, A.W.P. Buildings, CoMnsS],-
BRISBANE: Webster & Co., Mary-st.: ADEi^
S. Wigg & Son, Rundle-st.; AUCKLAND: J. Wdhehy__
“VTOTICF W. HUSiIELL is not authorised
J3I to represent The I ui.i.etin in any way.
CLINCHED TO STAY.
CRIMBLE : “Where did you get him
Clarence?”
FERGUSON : “I wore him home from
Miss Ferguson’s last night.”—Ex.


MARK
PILLS
BegisM
Unequalled, Unexcelled, Unsurpassed and Guaranteed to Cure all Blood and Nervous Diseases, Discovered, Registered and Prepared
W.
DENMARK
%
WUVi
/jiivv\
%
4
%
%
%
I,
\%
t
mi,
a
I
si
0'
»'
I
!i
v
I;
y)0‘
&
✓
o*‘
✓
f
#
{0
AMU
fflW
Restores'
A Guaranteed Cure
for Nervous Debility and
Lost Vitality.
225. 6d. per Course.
Smaller Box ss. 6d.
Posted - 23/6 and 6/-
Hy HERR |®HASSMUSSEN, the |celehrated| Danish |Herhalist,
Only Herbalist in Australia
Who has received “ Gold Medal” for Great Cures Performed, and is Honourably Mentioned in the “Centennial History of New South Wales
for Great Herbal Discoveries; and who can prove that he has CURED OYER 20,000 SUFFERERS with his Remedies.
Sole Proprietor and Discoverer of the Celebrated
DENMARK VITALITY :e»IXJL.S, Registered
Which have been the means of Curing so many Thousands of Sufferers from Nsvvous Debility, Lost Vitality, Errors, Weakness, Despondency,
Impure Blood. 225. 6d. per Course ; Smaller Box, ss. Gd Posted, 23/6 and 6/-
Grenuine Testimoiiials.
To HERR RASSMUSSEN.—Dear Sir, —This is to certify that your
remedies cured me of a very serious blood disease, after many doctors
had failed.-JOHN REYNOLDS, Chappel-street, Leichhardt, Sydney
To HERR RASSMUSSEN, the celebrated Danish Herbalist.—Dear
Benefactor,—l have much pleasure to inform the public that your
remedies cured my wife of an internal complaint of a very serious
''fture, after all the doctors had given her up.—ARCHIBALD
MACFARLANE, Eden Cottage, Barney-street, Armidale.
To HERR RASSMUSSEN, Specialist in Nervous Diseases. Dear
® lr > I hereby thank you for the great cure vour remedies performed
on me for a very complicated nervous affection, and I shall always
recommend you to sufferers from Nervous Debility. THOS.
MUDIMAN, Merchant Tailor, King Street, Newtown.
To HERR RASSMUSSEN, Danish Herbalist.—Dear Sir and Bene-
factor,—lt gives me great pleasure to testify to your wonderful skill
in the treatment of Disease. Your remedies cured me of a terrible
complaint after the doctors gave me up,, and although it is four years
since, lam as well as ever. I shall recommend your remedies to all. —
Yours, gratefully, A. RAMSDEN, Great Western Coffee Palace, Castle-
reagh-street, Sydney.
To HERR RASSMUSSEN, Specialist in Nervous Diseases.—Dear
S ir > I hereby certify that I have been under your skilful treatment
for a very obstinate case of nervous debility, and that your remedies
cured me, one course of your Vitality Pills being sufficient.—D.
M‘NEILL, Hornsby Junction, N.S.W.
vM <4
SUl
m
m
urn
n
Opinions of the Press.
It is a well-known fact that HERR RASSMUSSEN, the Celebrated
Danish Herbalist, has performed many great cures during the past few
years, as his numerous testimonials will prove.—Sydney Bulletin.
HERR RASSMUSSEN.—We have been shown some excellent Testi-
monials of the great cures performed by Herr Rassmussen, the cele-
brated Danish Herbalist.— Australian Star.
HERR RASSMUSSEN has now been established in the colonies
for 10 years. —Sunday Times, April 28, 1888.
HERR RASSMUSSEN has become a celebrity in the curing of all
diseases of the nervous system. His name has become a wonder
throughout the Southern Hemisphere. He was presented with a Gold
Medal for some of his miraculous cures.— Balmain Leader, May 12,1888.
HERR RASSMUSSEN.—The remarkable cures which he has effected
are pretty generally known.— Balmain Observer, April 28, 1888.
We are perpetually receiving'letters irom HERR RASSMUSSEN’S
cured patients requesting us to make known to the public the wonder-
ful medical skill this remarkable man possesses, and he has just been
presented with a Gold Medal from several of his cured patients.
—Sydney Weekly News, May 26, 1887.
HERR RASSMUSSEN, the Danish Herbalist, has shown us some
highly complimentary testimonials, which he has received, certifying
to a number of important cures effected by his remedies.—Sydney
Evening News, March 7,189 C.
Herr rtassmaxißsen’s Herbal Remedies. (REGISTERED.)
DENMARK VITALITY PlLLS.—Guaranteed to cure Nervous Debility, Lost Vitality, Errors of Youth and Despondency. Price, 225. 6d. per full course ; small box, ss. 6d.
DENMARK FEMALE RESTORER PILLS. —Guaranteed to cure all complaints peculiar to Females, Irregularities, and eradicates complaints which cause barrenness.
Price, 225. 6d. per course ; small box, ss. 6d. Posted, 235. Cd. and 6s.
DENMARK LOCK CURE PlLLS.—Guaranteed to Cure all diseases of the blood, discharges, sores, and strictures. Price, 22/6 per course ; small box, 5/6. Posted, 23/6 and 6/-
DENMARK LIVER and' KIDNEY PlLLS.—Excellent to take with the above Pills for Costiveness, and guaranteed to cure Dyspepsia, Indigestion, Wind, Heartburn, and all
complaints peculiar to the Liver and Kidneys. Is. and 2s. 6d. per box. Posted, Is. 6d. and 3s.
DENMARK HAIR and SKIN BEAUTlFlER.—Guaranteed to cure all Affections of the Skin, and prevents the Hair from turning grey. Excellent for the complexion.
2s. 6d. per packet. Posted, 3s. “ °
All
sent free,
the above remedies are made of PURE HERBS only, and are forwarded unobserved. A valuable treatise on Nervous Debility, Private Complaints, and Barrenness,
on receipt of 6d stamped addressed envelope. Consultation by post, free. Patients’ blood and urine, when sent by post, are examined with the aid of the Microscope.
Address: - Herr RASSMUSSEN ; the Danish Herbalist,
Box 208, G-eneral Post Office, Sydney.
N.B. —Ail correspondence strictly confidential. Register all letters containing money.
All the above Remedies may also be obtained personally at 58 ROYAL ARCADE, PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
$
x\\J
DENMARK
m
m
Jim
%
%
%
%
%
%
\$
ti
&
%
'I
%
®>.
m,
*
T
ĥ
[j# tH
s#'
0
m
h
/
& 1
f#
ĥ
tans''
v
Vitality
A Guaranteed Cure
for Nervous Debility and
Lost Vitality.
225. 6d. per Course.
Smaller Box ss. Cd.
Posted - 23/6 and 6/
Medical,
SPECIAL
MEDICAL NOTICE.
In all Long-Standing and Chronic Com-
plicated Cases of Diseases
CONSULT
OF
173 & 174 WILLIAM STREET.
MELBOURNE.
The Only Naturally Qualified Consulting Herbalist
of the present Century, and
TVlio Tlas Cured
More Oases of CHRONIC DISEASE than any
Ten Medical Men in Australia.
ALL CONSULTATIONS FREE.
Notice. —lf preferred, a signed agreement given, which
provides that no cost is incurred in the event of a cure
not being effected.
Sufferers can he treated equally well at any distance and
in any part of the world. Write fully a description of case
and symptoms, and mention this paper.
SWORN ‘CERTIFICATE.— One of Thousands more.
Noble-street, Newton, Geelong,
10th December, 1888.
To H. F. Kugei.mann, Esq.
Dear Sir,—This is to certify that I, Patrick Keenan, was
taken ill about three years ago with a severe cold, which
turned into Bronchitis and became chronic. / consulted
more than one doctor, and during that time took a great
quantity of medicine without it doing me the slightest
good, but I became worse every day, wasting atony until
I became a perfect skeleton. About February last I began
to spit up blood, and what with the cough and severe
pains in my left lung, and the quantity of bad matter I
was expectorating every dayq I became very much alarmed.
Hearing of your professional skill 1 consulted you, and
you told me you could cure me for a given sum. I agreed
and went under your treatment in March last. At the
end of three months I was taken bad one morning, and
vomited about two pints of blood, matter and stringy
phlegm. From that time I commenced to improve, and
was gaining in weight every day. About a month ago the
blood ceased coming, the cough disappeared, and the
king healed completely, and thank God and your pro-
fessional skill, I am as well as ever.
P. KEENAN.
Declared and subscribed before me, one of Her Majesty’s
Justices of the Peace, for the Southern Bailiwick, in the
County of Grant, this 10th day of December, 1888.
Peter S.mytiie, J.P.
A POSITIVE CURE.
T)R. BOHANNAN’S Curative Remedies for all Private
l / Nervous, and Special Complaints. Always reliable.
Descriptive chart sent, sealed, for two stamps. Address
Hotel Metropole Pharmacy, Phillip-street, Sydney,
A
GOLDEN SHANTY
PRICE : ONE SHILLING.
First Prize:
MELBOURNE EXHIBITION.
Ewingf’s Indelible
Marking 1 Ink.
Approved and Patronised by Vice-Royalty and
the Elite of the Australasian Colonies.
Report of the Government Analytical Chemist ; '“I have examined Ewing’s Indelible Marking Ink,
for marking linen, etc. It is very good, the writing done with it resisting all attempts to wash out.
It may be well recommended.—Signed, Wm. Johnston.”
All Wholesale and Retail Chemists, Stationers, Drapers. In cases, Is. Proprietor, T. A. Ewing,
Chemist (by appointment) to His Excellency, Brunswiok-street, Eitzroy, MELBOURNE.
ALLAN A. MARSHALL & CO.,
Engineers, Coppersmiths, Brass and Bell Founders,
Finishers, Plumbers, Ship & General Smiths,
Gasfitters, Art & Mediasval Metal Worker
ROLLER SKATES (any make) with KRASS or WOODEN WHEELS.
Verity’s Gas Fires, Heaters and Ventilators at greatly Reduced Prices—ll,ooo Fires already in use
Importers and Manufacturers of Diving Gear, Yacht and Boat Work of every description in
Iron or Brass, Ships’ Single and Double Action Valve Closets, Fire Hydrants, Hose and all appliances
Bon Accord Works, O Macquarie Place, Sydney.
CLARENDON HOTEL, MANLY,
(OPPOSITE OCEAN BEACH),
"Tlx© Erigiiton. of 3XT e'w Soutli Wales.
o
A most Comfortable High-class Establishment, Excellent Table, Large well ventilated Dining,
Sitting and Bedrooms, Magnificent Scenery. Every facility for Picnic and Fishing Parties, specially
suitable for Families.
BEST BRANDS OF WINES, SPIRITS, &c., BILLIARD TABLE.
o
TABLE D'HOTE DAILY AT 1 O’CLOCK.
o
ZESIICiSLiIMCIZIxrSTZHSIFI. ... Proprietress.
LICHTNER & CO..
SYDNEY:
318 GEOEGE STEEET
BRISBANE
9 ELIZABETH STEEET
A SPOILED PLATE.
ou press the button
■A-gR
■ \
■K
——We do the rest.
£T SEND FOR OUR NEW ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE
—OF —
CAMERAS, LENSES, CHEMICALS, MAGIC LANTERNS,
And all Articles appertaining to PHOTOGRAPHY.
):(
CXZBA.F A.MA.XEXTR OUTFITS.
Medical.
ħ
A.M., M.D., C.M., F.R.C.S., Ed.; M.R.C.S., Euo.,
157
( ELIZABETH STREET,
\ Sydney.
}
157
Dr. PATERSON has been engaged for over
Twenty Years in the study and practice of
QHRONIC, [\JERVOUS,
AND
Special Diseases
Of Men and Women in the leading Medical Schools and
Hospitals of Great Britain, Paris, Berlin and Vienna, and
in private practice. Formerly House Surgeon to the
Edinburgh Royal Infirmary, Maternity and Lock Hospitals.
No medical man advertising in these colonies has medical
degrees which can he compared with his. Such eminent
qualifications, together with his recognised straightfor-
ward treatment, has naturally gained for him the reputa-
tion of being the
ONLY LEGALLY QUALIFIED DOCTOR
advertising in these colonies who combines with special
Knowledge Honest Treatment, as may easily be ascer-
tained by applying to any leading paper in the colony.
No diseases cause so much misery and distress as those
included in my speciality.
All Men Young and Old,
Suffering from the results of early follies or ex-
cesses, indigestion, foul mouth, costiveness, palpi-
tation, singing and pains in the ears and head,
specks before the eyes, giddiness, weakened
memory, pains in the back and chest, varicocele,
diseases of the bladder, kidneys, or liver, rheuma-
tism, impure blood, weakening discharges, impaired
vigor, sterility, premature decay, stricture, nervous-
ness, groundless fears, bashfulness, lassitude, and
NERVOUS DEBILITY, should lose no time in
consulting him, since he has, by long experience
and thorough investigation of their nature, dis-
covered the safest treatment for their permanent
cure. Persons residing at a distance may be treated
at their own homes, without any interruption to
their business, by giving a full and clear descrip-
tion of their symptoms, and the necessary medi-
cines will be forwarded to them. On receipt of
2s. 6d. he will forward his book on the “Male
Generative Function in Health and Disease,”
or of Is., his book on “Nervous Debility.”
Dr. Alex. Paterson,
157 Elizabeth St., Hyde Park, Sydney.
S3T Consultation Free. TSfc
°>cA
from
every flower that
breathes a fragrance
SWEET SCENTS'
iLOXOTIS OPOPONAXI
\ FRANGIPANNI PSIDIUM/i
May be obtained
Of any Chemist or
Perfumer,
b T V 3
Street
Beware of imitations; The genuine is signed
TRADE MARK ;—MUSK DEER
h


WORMS IN CHILDREN
Effectually Cured by
WATSON'S GINGER-
BREAD WORM NUTS, a perfectly safe and certain remedy,
in an agreeable form. Sold by the leading Storekeepers, and
by Jie Proprietor, Jobs Watsok, Chemist, 681 George Street,
Sydney. In Boxes, Is. . by Tost, la. 2d.
Government
3s&
Notices.
Department of Public Works,
Sydney, December 3, 1890.
mENDERS FOR PUBLIC WORKS AND
JL SUPPLIES.
For Conditions, see Government Gazette.
TENDERS for the Works, &c., specified below
will be received at this Department until 11 o'clock
a.m. on the dates mentioned.
WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 10.
Supply of Cast-iron Pipes, &c., Contract No. 1,
Richmond Water Supply.
Iron Bridge, Alumny Creek, Pound-street, Grafton
—Contract No. 1, Ironwork, &c. Contract
No. 2, Erection. (Alternative tenders will be
received for Ironwork and Erection Complete
in one Contract.
Repairs, &c., Wharf at North Forster, Wallamba
River
Construction of Landing Stage, Taylor’s Arm,
Nainbuccra River
Erection of Stamp Office, Phillip Street
Bridge, Narara Creek, road Gosford to Popran
Wharf, Eatonville, Clarence River
Wharf, Gladstone, Macleay River
Additions Courthouse, Broken Hill (fresh tenders)
Erection of Post and Telegraph Office, Silverton
Erection of Courthouse, Ulrnarra
Erection of Bridge, Eelaringar Creek, road
Warren to Nevertire
Bridge, Murwillumbah Creek, at Murwillumbah
Bridge, Shingle Hut Creek, road Annidale to
Castle Doyle
Bridge, Duval Creek, road Armidale to Maryland
Erection of Quarters, Benevolent Asylum, Mac-
quarie-street, Parramatta
Bridge, Shea’s Creek, at Ricketty-street, Botany
Building for Engineering Department, University
of Sydnev (fresh tenders)
Construction' of Wharf, Sans S.uci, (fresh
tenders)
Construction of Tramway, Ashfield to Portland-
street, Enfield
Erection of Cottage at Chatswood, North Shore
Water Supply
Erection of Cottages at Ryde, North Shore Water
Supply . . „ -
Ferry Leases. See notices in Government
Gazette
Erection of Sergeant-Major's Quarters, Permanent
Sub-marine Miners. Chowder Bay
Erection of Married Men’s Quarters, Permanent
Sub marine Miners
Supply of 40,000 Fishbolts for Tramway Con
struction
Erection of Dispensary Hospital, Victoria Bar
racks, George’s Head
WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 7.
Bridge in Approach, Laybury Creek Bridge -
Bridge over Termed Creek, Road Burril to Ulla-
dulla
Additions to Bridge, Myall Creek, road Bingera
to Warialda ,
Additions, &c. ( Post and Telegraph Office, Braid
wood (fresh tenders)
WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 21.
Construction, &c., of Railway Bridges, Leycestm
and Wilson Creeks, Lismore-Tweed Railway
Construction of Ist Section Lismore-Tweed Rail-
way. (Plans, &c., to be seen after Ist Dec.)
BRUCE SMITH.
Attention is directed to the prospectus of
the Metropolitan Mont de Pie to Deposit and
Investment Co., Ltd., now being floated with the
laudable intention of doing a legitimate business
at reasonable rates. Considering the exorbitant
charges made by individuals, the new company
deserves the support which has already been
accorded it. So great has been the demand for
shares, that it is anticipated they will cniy he
obtainable at a premium in future.*
Deaf Forty "years.
The description of a simple remedy, by which a
complete cure of deafness and noises in the head of
FORTY years’ STANDING has just been effected,
will be sent free to anyone w ho applies to
J. 11. NICHOLSON,
175 William Street, Melbourne.
WENTWORTH «_HOTEuluß*aataEE»
miaßitngiißciiaßgrji iwiirciiii mnwm
v: :
m
■ =
-• ,i >•
Mtni
&
£(3.*>
Wentworth Ha:!.
CHURCH HILL,
SYDNEY.
For a Residential Hotel
tlie site is unequalled,
being quiet, healthy, and
central, opposite _ public
reserve, and within easy
walking distance of the
G.P.0., Public Offices,
Banks, Theatres and
Trams.
The accommodation and
attendance are excellent.
Terms Moderate.
Mrs. Hayes,
Proprietress.
R
O S
E C T U S
O F
H E
Metropolitan Mont De Fiete Deposit and Investment Company, Limited.
(To be Registered under the N.S.W. Companies Act.)
rnniti, £60,000, in 60,000 SHARES of £1 EACH.
Payable one shifting per share » application, one shilling and sixpence hare on allotment, balance
by calls of one shilling each, at not less intervals than one month.
. . , T a- . rp i tt ■pin c xTT F.PHFhD M L C., Svdney ; JOHN BEVERIDGE,
Pro “ J.P.' (oS'oriffltf. s“nd Cm) « Brid g ; Street pt OTAKRELL. «£CKJ
Castiereaah Street; GEORGE PILE, Esq., J.P. (Mills, Pile and Wilson), Pitt Street, ALDER
MAN fit
Bankers. —BANK OI NEW ZEALAND.
Brokers. -Messrs. A. H. COLLIER and CO., 118 Pitt Street, Sydney.
This Company is being formed for the purpose of establishing in New South Wales an institution
on the same plciii tis the Aineric<iii IVlont de 1 iete Societies. . • ~1 ..vnoonf fimp
it L well-known that the business in which this Company intends to engage is at the present time
-rs?— 1 f • s& sas® ifj
intercsL ise M the gent one C an effect a great public boon by lending cheap money to
the more needy classes, and at the same time pay handsome dividends to their Shareholders, has be
“""ift Mcl™™ e p Cmnpa“? similar to the ope now projected ha. been for many years in operation,
a " d ß“^ne V e7„o;To e tethcrfor an example than cur own eolony of New South w^mthe
lished its stability by the accumulation of a large Reserve lund in addition, that the Shares are
obtainaUeabthehijh that under ordinarily careful and economical manage-
ment the present Company will achieve similar results to those of other kindred institutions, and tha
it wfll be able to pay its shareholders 10 per cent per annum dividends, and also accumulate a go
IleS The Company will advance on all classes of approved securities, jewellery, merchandise, bills of
Promissory Notes, secured in any satisfactory
Way The Company will receive money on deposit, allowing remunerative rates of interest to its
dt P The Company has under offer very suitable premises centrally situated for the conduct of its
bUSi The Company may, if so decided upon by the Provisional Directors, be declared formed when
the Company will ho Peerage
in-eliminary'Leeal Expenses, such total expenses under no consideration to exceed five Pm cu .
capital subscribed. Should the Company not be duly formed, application money will be returned ! •
‘ aPl S:only contract entered into ir til Promoters and that dated the
Georee Pile, and George Gathers, Esquires, i lie saici uontracr ihu|«i.ut ““ '“VL-py
Messrs. Slattery and Heydon, Solicitors to the Company, corner of Market and 1 itt Streets, Sy S •
Application for Shares to be made onand CO., 118 Pitt-street, Sydney.
TO THE PROVISIONAL DIRECTORS OF THE METROPOLITAN MONT DE I lETE
TO THE PRO! AND INVESTMENT COMPANY (Limited). _
Gentlemen,—X hereby request that you will allot me sliarcs m the Company,
numb,; to sign the' At.uics and
Memoi’andum of Association when calldd upon to do so.
,
Profession
Address
Date
Several thousand shaves having been privately applied for, the Provisional Directors have decided
to allot strictly in accordance with priority of application.
Printed forms of application for presto be Officwof Bydney .
The Referee
There must be something radically wrong when
a province which raises the finest professional scullers in
the world cannot get together an amateur crew able to
extend, let alone' beat, crews from the sister pro-
vinces. Mismanaging everything from the start, the
Sydney people evidently thought they might as well be
consistent to the end, so they put off the conveying of
their boat to the starting-point till the afternoon, and as
it was then blowing a westerly gale it had to be tovved up
stream, while Victoria and Queensland sat waiting in
their boats for over an hour—extraordinary treatment to
extend to one’s guests. However, it was scarcely worth
delaying the race, as Sydney made but a sorry show.
Again The Bulletin gives its opinion that it would be
better for N.S.W. to stand out than thus to be held up to
ridicule year after year.
# * *
Queensland had hard luck. When approaching
One Man Wharf they had a commanding lead, and though
Victoria, which steadily decreased the gap, was going
magnificently and would certainly have pushed them lo
half a boat’s'length, it looked like the Bananamen’s race
until No. 2 (W. B. Molle) broke an oar, thus demoralising
the crew and giving the Gumsuckers first position. The
history of one of the Oxford and Cambridge races, and,
later, of a Harvard and Yale race, was repeated, inasmuch
as Molle jumped out of the boat; but there the similarity
ends, as the seven oars won in both the British and
American University races, whilst on Saturday Queens-
land could not make up lost ground, Victoria winning by
some four lengths. Sydney was distanced, and it is hard
to say how many men would have had to jump out of the
other boats to give Mr. Goodyear’s extraordinary crew a
chance of holding them.
# * *
A daily-newspaper correspondent avers that no
serious result has ever followed a prize-fight between two
trained men, and that a doctor tells him that a good,
sound fbdit is good for the constitutions of both com-
batants. ° Lovely joke ! Not only have dozens of trained
men been killed in prize-fights, but hundreds of men,
who have not been killed outright, have received such
serious injuries as to render them practically of no further
use in this world.
* * *
There is no doubt that a strong official move-
ment has now been initiated in the direction of putting
down the prize-fights thinly veiled in the guise of glove-
contests to a finish. With the toned-down mills the
patrons of prize-fighting will not be satisfied. Australia
is now, The Bulletin predicts, on the verge of a revival
of the raw-meat-and-grass battle of the old-time English
turf-the secret, early-morning gathering a few miles out
of town, the hurriedly-pitched ring, the big scoot in 500
different directions at the approach of the police, the
arrest of the aiders and abettors, and the practical
decease of knock-out fighting.
* # *
During the prevailing anti-boxing crusade, the
Sydney Amateur Athletic Club could not have had a
worse man than Burge to fight at their hall. Devoid of
science, and slow as a top, he relies upon his wonderful
powers of taking punishment to wear-down more scientific
opponents, whose hands are usually knocked into pulp
upon Ironbark' Jimmy’s cast-iron nob. The gory disfigure-
ment of Burge’s frontispiece certainly resolved the
fbdit into a sickening and brutal spectacle, and the
referee showed much want of acumen as well as of
humanity in giving the police a chance to interfere. Not
that Burge was “ knocked out oh, dear, no ! There is
an old story to the effect that the iron man, when work-
in"- on the Bondi sewer, fell down a 30ft. shaft, and
then cursed heartily at having broken a favourite pipe.
* * *
Notwithstanding Burge’s partial blindness, the
writer does not think Dawson would have been able to
knock him right out. Bather early in the fight Dawson
used his right-hand up, and towards the last he was
naturally weakening fast, and, blind or no blind, it is
hard to say how many times Burge might have gone
down before Dawson’s left, taken his 10 seconds, and then
stood up for more. Burge, however, long before the
fbdit finished, had received such horrible punishment
that the referee would, under the new rule, have been
justified in awarding the flsrht to Dawson.
# * *
However, as the men were allowed to go on
until the poboe interfered, it was manifestly unfair to
Burge to give the fight to Dawson. It was not a light
to be decided on “points.” It was “ to a finish,” or
unt'l the referee considered one of the men not in a fit
condition to go on. He did notconsider Burge beaten, or
he would not have awaited police interference, so the
contest should, without a doubt, have been declared a
“ draw.”
# # •
If the Burge-Dawson affair does not put an end
to the Sydney boxing boom, it is to be hoped that the
“iron man” will not again be pitted against a strong,
determined and scientific boxer. The Sydney club is
ostensibly run only in the interests of athleticism, and
should not again allow mere butchering in its ring, when
so many scientific men are at hand.
# * *
The earliest record of a prize-fight in Queens-
land describes a mill between Jim Smith, the “Native,”
and “ Black Bill,” who fought barehanded for £5O a side
at Ipswich on the 29th February, 1818. These festive
warriors of the olden days disposed of 32 rounds in 42
minutes, and then the nigger was knocked out by a right
hander on the jugular. In the previous year, 1547, Isaac
Reid, known as “ Big Ike,” who had fought Hough, the
“ Parramatta Native,” for the championship of N.S.W.,
died at Yass on Ist December.
* * *
Selling races are ever unsatisfactory items, and
one at a recent Sydney suburban meeting proved no
exception to the rule. A horse was backed heavily by the
public, but he made such a poor show against the
moderate field opposed to him that the crowd loudly
showed their disapproval upon his return to the paddock.
One backer had the temerity to say he would “claim”
the horse, when he was duly pounced upon and received a
drubbing from a well known bully who is a regular
attendant at the races in and about Sydney. Selling
races are put upon the programmes and are run under
rules which state any horse in the race may be “claimed,”
but it is an open secret that the man who “claims” a
horse belonging to at least one stable, does so at the risk
of a thrashing. An outsider would think t hat various
clubs, in their own financial interests, would put this sort
of‘thing down with an iron hand. -
* * *
At the recent Brisbane race-meeting the top-
rails of the hurdles were all but sawn through on the
night before the races. This considerate attempt to let
the “ crocks ” down light was upset by the substitution
of sound rails ere the event came off.
# # , «
The A.J.O. would do well to pass a rule
prohibiting trainers from holding an interest in pro-
prietary courses. It would cleanse the sport a lot.
Various are the tricks of the trade. At Canter-
bury, on Saturday, Giltinan, with Hugo's colors on,
paraded the paddock before the horses went out for the
Welter, and Hugo’s price was 4to 1. When the board
went up it was seen “ Bill ” Kelso had the mount, and the
public rushed him down to 6to 4. He vion handily,
tt # *
The Sydney Ladies’ Cricket Club intend to play
a match on the Association Cricket Ground on 26th and
27th December. A match is also contemplated with an
eleven of the Melbourne Ladies’ Club, which has now
upwards of 40 members.
* * #
A Melbourne paper asserts that the “lady”
cricketers of that town live all together in a four-roomed
cottage, and send out regularly for beer. Their male
brethren think the latter beverage indispensable.
# * *
“Tommy Japan,” of Thursday Island, who
recently won £22,000 by a lucky draw in Adams’ sweep,
began by keeping a small hash-house for the accommoda-
tion of coloured divers engaged in melting their cheques.
Now, Thursday Island desires to testify to Tommy’s
worth by making him a J.P.
# « *
Geelong Racing Club is playing the “ sport of
kings ” down about as low as it will go. The other Satur-
day’s programme included a trot, a pony handicap, and a
pony selling race, and £75 was the largest stake that an
owner could pick up at one fell swoop—a small sum indeed
to recompense any runner for the indignity of being
solemnly cursed from 75 Geelong pulpits next morning.
Until the G.R.C. institutes a selling race for parsons and
gets somebody to “ claim ” the whole lot of runners and
turn them out to grass, sport can never flourish in the
original capital of Victoria.
* * *
It is said that W. G. Rowdon’s high jump of
6ft. Sin. was made from a small spring block raised 7in.
at the broad end. Rowdon has lost his amateur status
through demanding payment for his exhibitions.
# # *
Two men, a professional and a novice, fought
63 rounds the other day at M‘Donald's Creek over a girl,
it ended in a draw, and the lady is now walking out with
ai other gentleman, the bridge of whose nose is in its
pristine condition, and whose unsplit lips remain as yet
red and kissable.
# # *
Larry Foley said the fight between Seguy and
young Mackenzie at the Gaiety the other evening for the
watch given by Proprietor Evans, was the best he had
witnessed for months. Ssguy won in eleven rounds.
* * *
A N.Y. manager cabled to Slavin asking his
terms to play in “ After Dark.” Slavin thinks favourably
of the matter, but prefers to postpone it till “after
darkey,” that is, until he has met and conquered Jackson.
# * *
Said Larry Foley the other night: “It was a
bad thing (do you understand?) for white folks, when I
brought out Jackson. D’ye see, now, all the dusky,
musky coons in the country are hopping about and
sweating (d’ye understand ?), and raakin’ you dainty coves
in the front seats squeamish ; d’ye see ?
* # #
If Slavin has started a libel-action against the
London Referee, it is presumably founded on some-
thing stronger than “ Pendragon’s ” article of October 5,
when he wrote : “The riddle has one of two issues. One
is that the winner was decided on beforehand ; the other
is that M‘Auiiffe is a bad-woolled ’un, and won’t fight an
up-hill battle. If the pair had agreed to ‘do business '
they would, in natural course, have arranged to get their
‘ business ’ over as speedily as possible. The agreed-on
loser would have all the best of the first round —thcit hoiug
his turn. Then the agreed-on winner would alter the
form; would take a lead, would give the agreed-on
loser a dreflul slush on the kopf, the agreed-on
loser would tumble down, and the j’s who paid between
£lO and £3O apiece would have had all the show they
were to be allowed for their money. . . • •
has a very suspicious appearance. That is, that the
moment M'Auliffe fell the second time Madden, described
as his.hacker, hut in reality his trainer and showman,
jumped into the ring and gave in for him. 1 artisans
don’t do that sort of thinjar in real straight oona-Jiae
matches.” There Pendragon certainly spots a very
suspicious circumstance. In days of yore the insensible
pugilist was wont to have his ear, or nose, bitten by his
friends before they relinquished all hope of bringing him
round. M'Auliffe’s mild-mannered seconds accepted the
“giant’s” knock-out with resignation, and didn t even
trouble to tickle him with a feather.
* * *...■■
Melbourne Herald and Sportsman published
sundry insinuations that Mr. Donald Wallace had
neglected to do the handsome, or even fairly generous,
thing by Hickeilbotham and his stable^ employes, bubse-
quently it was announced that Carbine’s owner had a,t
last made presents which satisfied everybody concerned,
and Hickeilbotham “ felt sorry that anything had
appeared in print regarding his patron’s alleged want of
liberality, and such had appeared without his knowledge. •
Nobody supposes that Mr, Wallace’s trainer inspired the
paragraphs which were so decidedly calculated to do mm
more harm than good. One might almost think that the
organs in question hadn’t forgiven Hickeilbotham for
stating in Court (firing the hearing of the Moorebank
case that he paid no attention to anything the Sportsman
said.
# # *
Tbe light-weight championship of Queensland
and a stake of £2OO have been won by George Powell, who
defeated Jim Tasker in ten rounds by knocking him out.
Tasker, much the lighter of the two, states that he can
get down to featherweight, and some time ago was
anxious to meet Griffo.
# # *
Ex-parson Cullen, M.P., declares that his
friends have frequently heard screams and groans coming
from places of fistic resort. That is not at all a conclusive
indictment, for we have heard screams and groans pro-
ceeding from chapels and churches.
# * *
Here is a finall section from the road-metal
apostrophe of a Sydney sporting rhymester to Joe
Goddard :
“ Your grave we will water,
But not with our tears,
Though for Dooley or Jackson
We’d part with our ears.
It is easy to be generous with that of which you have a
superfluity. Some folks could endow a deaf and dumb
institution with ear and yet have enough left to inform
them when anyone said “ What’s yours?”
Several Sydney “totes” have been fined £2O
and costs under the Betting Houses Suppression Acts.
Meanwhile the virtuous bookie is coddled by the police.
* * *
Harrie Smith, the newly-appointed inspector of
stiff ’uns to the V.R.C., has “had up” a two-year-old
called The Baron tor ip.-and-out running. There wasn’t a
tittle of evidence, and it hadn’t struck anyone but H.S. as
a cronk go. Case dismissed.
* * *
Says a London scribe :—“ A big coup would
have been landed if Ringmaster had got home lor the
Cambridgeshire Trial Plate. Business only was meant,
and the horse was backed ail over the country. The Aus-
tralian had very bad luck in the race, getting completely
shut in, despite a most determined effort on the part of
his jockey, Turner, to force his way between the winner
and Plato. Had Ringmaster finished second an objection
would certainly have been raised.
* * *
Sir George Cbetwynd, the sporting Staffordshire
baronet who married the lovely widow of the early-
deceased plunger, the Marquis of Hastings (the jilter of
Hermit Chaplain), and who, some 18 years ago, beat all
the crack Arabs in Egypt with his horse Countryman and
a hurdle-racer, called, we think, Faliero, is about to pub-
lish “Twenty Years Racing Reminiscences and Experi-
ences of the Turf.” If he be honest and outspoken, then
some spicy disclosures will take place.


Clarke’s “Pyramid” Nursery Lamp Food-Warmers
m • w
wM
mm
rmm
vAo M
•mo
,. m
na-
raSjHiaw
rssil
□
WMi- 63WBVM 00o
mmS
, NEW PATTERN
Includino BRASS
“PYRAMID” Lami-
and Keoistsbed
Pannikin By this
invention any liquid
food can bo poured
out or drunk, with-
out scum or grease
passing through the
spout, and prevents
spilling when poured
into a Feeding Bottle
so unavoidable with
all other Pannikihs
These Pannikins
will fit all the old
“Pyramid” Nursery
Lamps and can
be purchased
separately
Id Fireproof
Plaster
Casing
with
Single Wicks
in Boxes
'.ontalnlng g Lights,
BUEN
9 Hours
each.
‘ PYRAMID ’■' LIGHT
jhe ol yl 3 »iirite
eras
the.
&urclaß s
Horror-
In Glass
with
Double
Wicks
in Boxes
containing
6 Lights,
BURN
10 Hours
each
“ FAIRY LIGHT.’
S£
So
With DOUBLE Wicks,
in. Boxes containing g
Lights and Glass BURN
6 Hours each Burn
(0 Hours with Single
Wicks. These are smaller
than "Fairy" Lights,
consequently less expen-
sive, and will bum in
any of the “ Fairy ” or
■Fairy Pyramid” Lamps
“FAIRY PYRAMID” LIGHT
SINGLE Wick in boxes
containing 8 Lights and
Glass. BURN |Q Hours,
These are smaller than
" Fairy ” Lights, conse-
quently less expensive,
and will bum in any of
the “Fairy” or “Fairy
Pyramid” Lamps.
PAIEY-PYRAMID” LIGHT.
]\\swwm\v
OLD SHAPE
PANNIKIN
.
NEW
SHAPE
PANNIKIN
K:
X
N.B AD Clarke’s Bights are warranted free from Paraflm, or other dangerous material.
FAR, FAR AND AWAY THE BEST.
fey a.ll tlx© leading Retail Houses.
Wholesale Agents for Australasia : FRANCIS FORREST & CO., 484 Colling Street, MELBOURNE
A,SAUNDERS,
Watches and Jewellery are like good wives—they are
worth having,
end for Illustrated Trice List. Post Free.
813 GEOIIGE STREET, SYDNEY
(Nearly opposite Railway Station).
Factories: Liverpool and London, England.
£2 10s. English Lever, Two Years’ Guaranteed.
£3 10s. English Lever, “The Unequalled,” full cap.
£4 English Lever, “The Special,” compensated.
20 The Unequalled Keyless Watch. 20/-
Country Residents and Visitors to Sydney call or send
A. SAUNDERS, 813 George Street (nearly opposite
Railway Station), SYDNEY.
Many in and out of the city will be pleased to
know that Oreelman and Co., photographers in
the Sydney Arcade, have reduced their charges
for photographs. Cabinets now 15s. per dozen.
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
To cure skin diseases.—Sulpholine Lotion
drives away all eruptions, pimples, blotches, red-
ness, eczema, acne, disfigurements, roughness and
scurf, leaving a clear, spotless skin. Sold every-
where.
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
The Shannon File and Transfer Cases are
indispensable to the modern business or profes-
sional office. They pay their cost in a week in
time and temper saved. W. M. Maolabdy, 319
George-street, Sydney.
How to Grow Rich.—lnvest in land at Perth,
W.A. Plans from Intercolonial Investment Co.,
Limited. 96 Bathurst-street. Svdnev.
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
Wolfe’s Schnapps has no rival.
Wolfe’s Schnapps—a mild stimulant.
Wolfe’s Schnapps—the ladies appreciate it.
Yoti really ought to drink Wolfe’s Schnapps.
Wolfe’s Schnapps cheers the rtiind ahd body.
Wolfe’s Schnapps—for the liver and kidneys.
Odi Profanum.
Dear Bulletin,— The Latin title of this little
article may be - translated “Avaunt, ye un-
washed 1” I have chosen it advisedly. Ever
since I can remember distinct thought I
have been an iconoclast, an anarchist, a dis-
ciple of Brad laugh before he was respectable,
and of Mrs. Besant before she espoused the doc-
trines of esoteric Buddhism. Yet, along with
active hatred of the average duke, the wealthy
retired contractor, the bishop, I find in my heart
an even more deeply-rooted aversion and con-
tempt for the average cabman, shopman, shearer,
and banker’s clerk. It remains to be seen whether
this is merely an objectionable peculiarity of my
own, or whether really I belong to a large school
of thinkers who have never as yet confessed their
beliefs, but who will now recognise me as their
mouthpiece.
* # *
We will assume for the present that my duke,
with his insolent opulence, his crowd of related
flunkeys, his inevitable entanglements with low
opera-girls, his hereditary diseases and his natural
inaccessibility to ideas, is practically doomed.
The loner-delayed vengeance, merited by the long
series of offences perpetrated by ancestors whom
he does not disclaim, is about to burst on his head.
At any rate, no one will want to quarrel with me
because a duke disgusts and irritates me. We
will also assume that all the sympathy with the
working-man, so commonly expressed by poets and
philanthropists, is genuine. Chaucer, Milton,
Shakespeare, and Shelley, have clasped him to
their heart. I alone regard him with aversion and
contempt. Is it possible to explain this, and to
prove that my attitude is exactly the proper one ?
* * #
Let us examine first what the real grievance of
Labour is. So far as I can form a distinct mental
picture of society in England and India now, in
Greece and Egypt long ago, I see always the down-
trodden millions incessantly producing, and inces-
santly robbed. Whether a few priests and soldiers,
a few brilliant statesmen, a few alien usurpers, or
a few capitalists held the reins of power, it was
always the same thing. The people who ought to
have acted as captains of labour, organising it so
that enough should be produced, and regulating
the distribution so that each should have an equal
share, invariably allowed the energies of the
workers to be dissipated and ineffective, and con-
tented themselves with as much of the produce as
they could appropriate without causing absolute
revolution. Here we see the radical flaw in the
argument of ordinary agitators. They con-
tinually asseverate that if the drones were all
killed the working bees would have each a fair
share of the honey. They do not see that, the
drones being few, their wealth would, when
divided, be but a trifle for each worker.* The
crime of the ruling classes is not primarily that
they steal, but that they do not rule. '
* * #
So far, I think careful readers will allow that
Chaucer, Milton, Shakespeare and Shelley are on
my side. Why is it then that they manifest love
and sympathy, while I feel only contempt ? The
answer is easy enough when you hear it. To their
great minds, the ideal and typical was real and
tangible. _ They saw Demos like a Samson
struggling in his chains. They pitied him for his
wrongs, and loved him as the strong love the weak.
Where they saw the general, I see the particular.
I meet bricklayers, shearers, cabmen, woodcutters,
and I find them as a rule besottedly ignorant,
grossly selfish, personally so dirty that they smell,
cruel in their pastimes, servile to the strong,
brutal to the weak. i‘ All their ideals are false.
They admire, hate, love, laugh, cry, exactly when
they should on no account do so. This accounts
for the harshness with which they are treated by
the upper-classes generally. The “ gentry ” know
that no working man will ever thank them for
kindness, and they extend to them something less
than justice.
* * *
What, then, is the political platform of one like
myself, who is an extremist in Radicalism and at
the same time full of contempt for the working-
man ? To reform him, of course. What he wants
is education, money, leisure. When he has those
I shall no longer feel aversion for him. Nobody
can be a true champion of labour who does not
feel as keenly as I do the reason why the working
man needs a helping hand. And the reason, I
have shown, is that ages of servitude have
developed the servile vices. If he were clean, wise,
unselfish, gentle, manly, he might well be allowed
to remain poor. The reason poverty is a curse is
that it inevitably produces, sooner or later, the
low moral type I have described before.
• * #
There is just now an election going on in New
Zealand, and never having sat in Parliament, it
occurred to me it would be amusing to contest a
constituency. It was clear that in order to get
the labour-vote it would be necessary to explain
to the electors why Ofle who despises them in-
dividually, as much as I do, for the fact is well
known, is really the only person likely to make a
serious attempt to raise theto from servitude with
its vices to freedom with its Virtues. Any agitator
who tells the labouring classes that they are not,
in their present condition, fit objects for contempt,
does not realise why poverty is an evil. Were
any reasonable amount of virtue compatible with
incessant drudgery, they might well be allowed to
drudge on. Their only real claim to more money,
more education, more leisure, is that existing ser-
vile vices , can only so be dispelled. But the
electors in my district have a firm idea that the
test of a candidate is whether he will shout them
long beers. They would not understand a
word of what I have expressed briefly, but
I hope clearly, above, and, therefore, I have
turned to a more rational audience and
endeavoured to explain my idea to your
readers. Tor in a country electorate the
proportion of intelligent voters is small, whereas
in Sydney hundreds of men who read these lines
will agree with me. Indeed, lam Pot quite sure
that you will be wise in publishing this. As like
as not, a body of roughs will break your windows
for allowing me to say that “ down-trodden serfs ”
do not inherit gentlemanly instincts. I am quite
convinced, however, that whenever the real
reformer arises he will speak as frankly as I do,
and I believe a number of really humane and
honorable men will thank me for having expressed
in plain terms thoughts which they were dimly
conscious of, but had not elaborated with sufficient
precision to express in writing or even in speech.
W.F. HOWLETT.
Makaretu, Waipawa, New Zealand.
[We publish the above gay and festive epistle for several
reasons. Among others, because we would like tolcombat
the excessively stale and feeble argument {vide *) that a
fairer division of the world’s wealth would not much in-
crease the earnings of labour. If it be taken into
consideration that all estimates as to the world’s wealth
are calculated per head, it will be seen that in the case of
the husband of a wife and the father of a family, the
yearly increase would not be so insignificant. Then, the
indirect increase must not be forgotten. The chief objec-
tion to competitive production and monopoly is that
they limit production. The communisation of all the
sources of wealth would immensely increase the world’s
annual production; this increase of production, com-
bined with absolute fairness in distribution, would surely
entirely annihilate pauperism, if not poverty. Even if the
workers were, as our correspondent asserts, unclean, sel-
fish, ungrateful, and ignorant brutes,f these vices could
not be inherent, must be the result of environment, and
therefore their existence would only, as the apostle of
Tirenism, to do him justice, asserts, furnish another
powerful argument for social reconstruction.—Ed.B.]
Charlemont and Co., high art photographers,
Royal Arcade, altogether owe their measure of
success to the fact that the merits of their photo-
graphy are always of a high order.
Give the London & Sydney Tea Co. one trial,
they guarantee satisfaction.
Ladies’ Silver Watches, 35s. Baums & Co., King-street
Arcade.
Charlemont and Co., photographers to the
Governor, Royal Arcade, have moderated their
charges for photographs, with a view of meeting
every one. Cabinets now 15s. per dozen.
Reliable Watch Repairs. Dahms & Co., King-st. Arcade.
A Sydney Single-taxer boasts that he
writes articles at the rate of 2000 words an hour.
But then the papers don’t print ’em at the rate of
2000 words per hour.
“Can it be wondered that there are
sceptres who have no faith in the honesty and
integrity of any man?” asks the irrepressible
compositor on Melbourne Herald. The Bulle-
tin is acquainted with several men who have lost
faith in sceptres.
A Californian “oyster-cocktail” consists
of a few small fat oysters placed in a tumbler,
Which is then filled with a mixtureof salt, pepper,
lime-juice, Worcestershire sauce, and oyster liquor.
No one needs to be told how to take it. It will
wake the dying to life—if you put in enough
Worcester.
The Christmas Number of the Austra-
lasian Builder and Contractors’ News will
contain 64 psigeS, nearly 30 illustrations, a hand-
some lithographed almanac, and a beautiful
coloured plate (suitable for framing), entitled
“ The Builder’s Daughter ” —the whole bound in
a gold printed co ver. Order copies at once from
the offices, 527 Kent-street, Sydney; Builders’
Exchange, Melbourne ; Messrs. Gordon & Gotch,
Brisbane; or of leading newsagents in every
Australasian city and town. New South Wales
stamps received. Price, Sixpence* One Guinea
per annum.*
Brigand Stanley has no alternative hut to
maintain that Major Barttelot was mad, seeitlg
that the dead man openly expressed his fears that
Stanley would poison all his “staff,” so as to be
able to pose as the sole surviving leader of his
ghastly expedition. Anyway, it is evident that
Stanley was not much of a success in a missionary
sense. To clear his own character he must pro-
duce a witness who will swear that two of the
“ hero’s ” colleagues amused themselves by kicking
boys to death and buying girls for the purpose of
seeing them eaten alive, and taking authentic
sketches of the process. Stanley will have to ex-
plain why he didn’t publish those sketches with
his faithful account of all that transpired in
Darkest Africa. We shall never get the true
history of that tropical picnic until Dolly Tennant
lets the world into the secret of her husband’s
nightmare babblings after suppers of cold pork
and cucumber. One of these fine mornings Dolly
will look in the glass and discover that her hair is
as white as that of the pirate book-canvasser, her
husband.
Try Colemane and Son’s Eucalypte
Lozenges and Honey.
The London & Sydney Tea Co. supply squatters
and farmers at wholesale prices.
The Choicest Jewellery. Baums & Co., King-st. Arcade.
A fair beautiful skin. —Sulpholine Soap
gives the natural tint and peach-like bloom of a
perfect complexion ; makes the skin smooth,
supple, healthy, comfortable. 6d. tablets. Every*
where.


We notice with pleasure that the Equitable
Mortgage, Discount, and Deposit Bank, of 4
Moore-street, Sydney, has recently been incor-
porated, and is now opened for business. This
bank has been formed for the purpose of assisting
those who may at any time be in pecuniary diffi-
culties and wish to avoid paying the excessive in-
terest which is too often charged. The bank has
secured the able services of Mr. Henry A. Birk-
myre, which should be a guarantee that clients will
be fairly dealt with. In these days of extortion, the
above institution should about fill a long-felt
want.*
Soap.
ass
m
m
%
\
m
m
r£-~— H
S
o
ħ
Tales of “The System.”
No. XXI.—Convict Rudde’s Proposal of
Marriage.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Henry Rudde, No. 157, transport per Lord
Lynedoch, and assigned man to E. A. Slyde,
Esq., Police Magistrate of Sydney, was in the
seventh heaven of bliss. His master had just
granted him permission to marry. His joy was
the more intense, in that it had been preceded by
a shock of fear.
# * *
Mr. Rudde was overseer at the P.M.’s
Parramatta Farm, and was consequently in a
position of some glory and much responsibility,
though slight emolument. Still, he was not
altogether comfortable. He made a considerable
amount of money for his master at the useful, if
unromantic occupation of growing cabbages, but
he was anxious to make some for himself. Un-
fortunately, one little obstacle impeded the way
to the fulfilment of that laudable wish. He was a
“lifer,” and, therefore, not eligible for a ticket-
of-leave till 12 years had .elapsed since his convic-
tion. At’the moment when we confer upon Mr.
Rudde the honour of introducing him to Bulletin
readers, five years had still to pass before he
could enjoy the fruits (and vegetables) of quasi-
independence. And, as he saw his manhood’s
prime gradually slipping away from him, and his
capacity for minting gold out of the white hearts
of cabbages being put to no other use than to
swell Mr. Slyde’s bank - account, his temper
soured somewhat and Ins energies flagged—a
couple of facts which, it is perhaps needless to
say, did not escape the keen-eyed P. M.
Mr. Slyde had been paying one of his customary
Sabbath visits to his farm, and had detected
numerous systems of a relaxed vigilance. A
straggling hedge, an unrepaired fence, a hingeless
door and a cart-wheel in an advanced state of
wobblmess were significant to the experienced
disciplinarian and admirable Administrator of a
turn for the worse in Rudde’s management.
“ Rudde,” he said, as he entered the homestead,
after his inspection was ended for the day;
“ Rudde, you’re getting sulky ! ”
The assigned man started and trembled. Mr.
Slyde’s voice conveyed a subtle menace. No
convict ever excited Mr. Slyde’s anger without
suffering for it in body and mind. Rudde w r as well
aware of this interesting fact,, and hence suffered
in anticipation.
“Rudde,’’proceeded Mr.Slyde, “sulkinessdon’t
pay with me! You’ll have to alter that game, my
man. One bad report from me, and —phew!—
your chance of a ticket is blown sky-high.”
“ I ain’t sulky, sir,” stammered Rudde.
“ You are, sir ! Don’t lie ! If there’s a thing
I hate it’s a lie ! I know a lie when I hear one,
and you’re lying now !”
The enemies of the Assignment System founded
their principal objections to it on the impossibility
of ensuring to the assigned servants good example
and moral precept on the part of the employers.
It is obvious that if all masters and mistresses had
shared Mr. Slyde’s repugnance to a lie, the ob-
jection would have been deprived of all weight.
“ Well, sir, I’m a-gettin’ a bit down-’arted, sir.
It’s not as if I were a workin’ for myself, sir.”
The P.M. assumed his best dehortatory coun-
tenance as he replied to this astonishing outbreak.
“ Working for yourself ? Do you forget what you
are, Rudde—a transport, a convict, a prisoner of
the Crown ? You, working for yourself ! Have
you forgotten that if you had had your deserts,
you would have been hanged, and instead of being
as you are now my assigned servant and alive, you
would have been a skeleton with a dislocated neck.
» Working for yourself!—the idea.”
“But, sir, meanin’ no ’arm, sir,” whimpered
poor Rudde, who already felt his flesh creeping
under the “cat,” “other lifers who kem,. in the
same ship, sir, are a-workin’ for themselves.”
“ What!” thundered Slyde, jealous of the dignity
of the King’s Regulations—“ what! lifers made at
the same time as you got their tickets already ? I
don’t believe it ! I’ve already warned you not to
tell me lies !”
“ Tis true, sir, ’tis! There’s Goodyear and
Renny, sir!”
“Ah, I’ll see to that,” said his master, as he
proceeded to note in his pocket-book the names of
the men in whose favour the Regulations had been
so flagrantly set aside; “to whom were those
fellows assigned, d’ye know?”
‘ * Goodyear to Mr. Macleay, sir, and Renny to
Sir John Jamieson, sir.”
“Um—ah!” And Mr. Slyde shut his book
with a snap. There was nothing to be made by
accusing gentlemen of high stations of violating
the Regulations. He could do no more than men-
tally curse them for setting so bad an example.
The System was going to the devil, he thought,
when the very rich men of the colony were so
squeamishly soft as to permit their assigned hands
to work for themselves before their tickets were
properly due. The news, too, made him reflect a
minute before further talking to his overseer. It
was a confoundedly unfortunate coincidence that
the wretches so enfranchised by Macleay and
Jamieson should be “Lord Lynedoch lifers ” as
well as his own men. The circumstance could but
provoke comparisons, and Slyde was not so well
beloved of his brother Administrators as to pre-
clude the comparisons being made in such a way
as to prove odious and odorous. Therefore,
upon reflection, he determined to be magnanimous,
and not to punish Rudde for daring to assert a
wish for independence and the filthy lucre which
the least industrious of free or ticket-of-leave men
could scarcely avoid picking up in those days.
“Well, Rudde,” he said, at last, “I’ll let you
oft this time.” (How Rudde thanked his stars ! he
had quite made'up his mind to “fifty.”) “But
don’t try it on again—and don’t neglect your
work or I’ll really have to get your ticket stopped.
And, now, just to encourage you, and show you I
mean you to get on, I’ll tell you what I’ll do.”
He infused a genial kindliness into his tones
that made his assigned man pinch himself to make
sure he wasn’t dreaming.
“I’ll tell you what I’ll do,” Slyde repeated,
“I’ll allow you to get married !”
“ Married, sir ! ” gasped the fellow, thus
honoured beyond his deservings. “Married !”
“Yes. Oorne inside, and I’ll give you an order
~*v Mrs. Gordon for a wife.”
* * *
Rudde followed his master into the home-
stead, and emerged, a few minutes later, with two
slips of paper in his hand, and a look of wonder-
ment on his face. One of the slips was a pass
which permitted him to be absent for three days
from his master’s holding—an ample period, Mr.
Slyde considered, for Eudde to make the acquaint-
ance of his future spouse, get the knot tied, and
spend the honey-time—and the other was an
order to obtain the lady in question from the
Parramatta Factory.
As Mr. Slyde seated himself at bis table in the
parlour, to write these valuable documents, he
proceeded to demonstrate to his astounded over-
seer how the new arrangement would facilitate
his, Rudde’s, desire to earn money. ,
“I’ll get this place proclaimed as a pound,.
Rudde, and on my recommendation you’ll get the
post of pound-keeper. Now, if you just work it
righj; there’s a lot of money in that business. By
the time you’re due for your ticket you ought to
be worth three or four hundred pounds. Do you
understand ?”
Mr. Rudde, having been seven years a resident
in the colony, and having, moreover, kept his
eyes pretty wide open to the various ways by
which certain prominent settlers had made money,
intimated he did understand—perfectly !
“That’s right,” continued Mr. Slyde. “Now,
of course, I can’t afford to let you devote a lot of
your time to the pound without some compen-
sation ?”
Mr. Rudde nodded a respectful assent.
“Then we’ll agree that you should pay me £2O
a year rental for the impounding-paddock.”
..Again Mr. Rudde assented.
“ That’s right again. Now we come to the next
point. You see you’ll be away a good deal looking
after stock to impound, and somebody must be
here to keep an eye on the other assigned hands,
and as I don’t want another overseer about the
place—you wouldn’t like that either, would you ?
—I think you’d better be married right off. A
decent sort of woman would look after you and
the hands, too, and, besides, Mrs. Slyde and I are
coming up here once or twice in the week in
future : the change from the town does us good,
and it’ll be more comfortable for us that a woman
should be in the house to keep things tidy. You
understand that?”
Rudde’s acquiescence this time was more
measured. “ Y-e-es !” he managed to say, after a
hesitancy which should have made clear to Mx.
Slyde the true cause of his unwillingness to
receive a bride on the instant. Perhaps Mr.
Slyde did apprehend, but, if so, it was not his
business to indicate that he possessed any insight
into the difficulties of Rudde’s position.
“Y-e-es !” he echoed. “Well, ’pon my word !
you don’t appear very anxious to be spliced,
Rudde? But you’re a fool. And it’s the only
condition on which I’ll retain you here as over-
seer. You’ll have to work under another man,
else. You won’t like that, after being a sort of
master here. You can’t make money unless you
have the pound, and you shan’t have the pound
unless you marry.- And I can’t have things going
to.wreck and ruin because you’re discontented;
and if you won’t marry, and so earn money for
yourself, I can see you’ll soon be useless as over-
seer.”
“But, Mr. Slyde—sir—l can’t marry. I am—
married ! I was married afore I was-Jagged, ”
was Rudde’s hard-breathed response,
The P.M. laughed. “You are a d d fool,
Rudde. Aou mean you were married !”
“ Yes, I was married, sir, and my wife was
’live w’en I last ’erd, sir.”
“ Just so,” said Mr. Slyde. “ And you last heard
about a year ago?” For the few letters which
formed Rudde’s correspondence pas»«d through
Mr. Slyde(s hands,
“ Yes, sir, full a year ago !”
“ Oh, well, don’t bother about that. You’ll get
another letter to-morrow—l’ll send it by old
Pounce—telling you of her death. Keep it care-
fully, you know, so if anything happens you’ll get
off because you married the second time under a
wrong impression. And you’d better give me one
of your old letters—l’ll take care the stamp’s fixed
up all right.”
His employer’s willingness to smooth over the
difficulties connected with entrance upon fresh
connubial obligations removed Overseer Rudde’s
last objection to the proposed union, and as he
went out from Mr. Slyde’s presence with the two
precious documents already referred to in his
hands, his heart was freed from its canker of dis-
content, and his spirits mounted joyously. The
more he contemplated the prospect before him,
the happier he felt, and after a night’s sleepless
tossing on his soon-to-be-no-longer-widowed bed,
he rose, fully convinced of Mr. Slyde’s generosity,
and of his own superlative good fortune,
“Why,” he said to himself, as he ascertained
his wedding morning was balmy and sunshiny,
“I ain’t felt so ’appy since I was a boy. I warn’t
’arf so spry when I was married to Polly—not by
long chalks.” And, as he harrowed his locks with
the unwonted comb he completely forgot his
chains, and mounted in imagination to the high
heavens of felicity. In fancy, he saw_ himself a
free man, and (thanks to the pound and its delicate
function as a wealth-producer) a rich old squatter,
and the founder of a “Family.” Even in these
early days, men talked of founding a colonial
aristocracy.
« • #
,
Shortly before noon, Pounce, the forger,
arrived at Slyde’s Farm from the city. A most
useful man w’as Pounce. The System used him;
its Administrators availed themselves of his ex-
pertness with the pen and the erasing-knife ; and
he carried on, in addition, a thriving trade with
the “ Gov’ment-men.” His stately and venerable
presence shrouded a soul deep-dyed in criminality,
and an intellect versed in every devious device for
getting round a moral principle, or through
an Act of Parliament. Transported (after
reprieve) for forgery of bank-stock, he had already
been constructively hanged in Sydney for placing
Governor Darling’s name to a Conditional
Pardon. But he was too useful a man to be
hanged absolutely. The System could have
better spared a better man.
Was it necessary (in the conjoined interests of
a contractor and a Treasury-clerk) to alter the
terms of contract after the agreement had been
passed by the Executive Council? Old Pounce’s
faculty was ready to effect the alteration,
Was there an awkward discrepancy between a
deed of land-grant and the register in the Survey
Office, who was there other than old Pounce who
could be trusted to furnish the requisite deftness
of touch to scrape the parchments and to write-in
the substituted entries?
When Jasker—convict just liberated—brutally
and ungratefully assaulted Mr. Robert Warpby,
of the Civil Service—had not Warphy used his


Horsford’s Acid Phosphate,
A BKAIN AND NERVE FOOD*
fur lecturers, teachers, students, clergymen,
lawyers, and brain-workers generally.
Stop that cough, by the use of Ayer’s Cherry
Pectoral—the best specific for all throat and lung
diseases. It will allay inflammation, aid respira-
tion, and strengthen the' vocal organs. Ayer's
Almanacs are free to all. Ask for one-
H. P. GREGORY &
161 Clarenoe-at.,' Sydney, & at Melbourne
& Brisbane,
ENGINEERS
- -A-ISrZD -
General Machinery Merchants.
HAVE LARGE STOCKS OF THE UNDERMENTIONED
M' HINJ
2RY, &c.;—
PUMPING MACHINERY.
BLAKE’S DIRECT ACTING
STEAM PUMPS (single and
duplex).
BLAKE’S POWER PUMPS.
BLAKE'S DOUBLE PLUNGER
PUMPS.
LAWRENCE MACHINE CO.’S
CENTRIFUGAL PUMPS.
GOULD’S HAND & POWER
PUMPS.
EPSON’S DIAPHRAGM PUMPS.
Also, all sizes of
PIPING, FITTINGS, VALVES,
HOSE, &c., Ac.
u
ir
■v
m a
''WjW.I
I ! ,.5
- n
P I
f-
I
MINING MACHINERY.
BAKER’S BLOWERS.
STURTEYANT’S BLOWERS
and EXHAUSTS.
DUNCAN CONCENTRATORS.
TWO-HEAD STAMP BATTERIES.
LAMBERTON’S PATENT PUL-
VERISING MILLS.
UNION ORE CRUSHERS.
BRYAN MILLS.
TAYLOR’S HAND ORE
CRUSHERS;
HAND AMALGAM MORTARS.
HYDRAULIC NOZZLES «fc DE
ELECTORS (for sluicing).
Also. FLEXIBLE STEEL WIRE
ROPE, AMERICAN FUSE.
■Ac., Ac.
ste eK gi sl vert i ?t ;:w boileus from t,ro
FAIRBANKS Scales and WeiahhrirWa 'n-.S « ' M i jw-c-°?r ,’ mclndmg TurnnVg Lathes, Radial and other Drilling Machines, Screwing'Machines, Ac.
Sight Feed Lubriimtor^^^ickering 8 E^ue^wemore /i Machinery. Luhricaling Oils. Skip Grease, Wlfcels,
° Correspondence Solicited. All enquiries promptly attended to.
Tfje Loi|doi| & Sydney
Tea Company,
167 Clarence-st., Sydney
Delivers carriage free
to any Railway Station
or port in N. S.Wales.
h
Packed In
'2O-lb. and 40-lb. Chests.
< .Price:
1/6, ip, r-, k 2 (51IW lb.
'Writ^o'ua-for - • •
Samples, Post free
influence to procure Jasker’s release ?*—and
Jasker had been ordered three hundred lashes,
who was it, when the prisoner died under the
seventeenth stroke, and it was then found that no
doctor was present, altered the record of the
sentence to “fifty ” lashes?f Why, Pounce, to be
sure.
And when, as not unfrequently happened, the
System or its administrators required a convict’s
; -“ ora f letters to be manipulated, or a new
letter to be inscribed within a sheet bearing an
old post-mark, there was no one like Pounce to
bring about the desired end.
No wonder, then, that Mr. Pounce was too
highly esteemed by the System for it to hang him
yeiawhile. Though, to tell the whole truth and
? J'he truth, no transport that ever
landed on these shores would have so appro-
priately adorned the gibbet on Pinohgut as this
worthy scrivener. Thomas Griffiths Wainwright,
John Hardy Vaux, Savory and Fletcher, these
were children beside him.
* * *
Rudde knew Mr. Pounce well. He had once
upon a time solicited the “ penman’s ” talents in
his own behalf, and, wishing to make a bolt up-
country, had wished to purchase from Mr. Pounce
a pass or certificate of freedom.
N°w, if there was one thing more than another
on Which Mr. Pounce plumed himself, it was his
capacity to successfully prepare a pardon, a ticket
or a pass to suit any description of person. H«
had always on hand a considerable number of
blanks’—obtained no one could say how—and
also numerous certificates purchased from the
men and women properly entitled to them, which
he would change as occasion served. Where ho
c , ou 'd nob alter a pardon, he altered the person.
As a skilful tatooist, Pounce, if not supreme, was
still eminent among Sydney practitioners.
Nevertheless, in spite of his unquestioned ac-
complishment in the art of granting Freedom
(for a substantial monetary consideration) to con-
victs froin whom a partial Administration withheld
Liberty, Mr. Pounce would not entertain Rudde’s
proposal. He assiired Rudde that his hand had
lost his cunning, the objection to complying with
the request being, however, Mr. Pounce’s reluct-
lance to annoy Slyde. For Slyde was his most
remunerative client. Nobody gave him so many
little jobs of forg—hush, we mean so many
‘ corrections ’’—as Mr. Slyde. And he wasn’t
going to offend Slyde for the ten-pound note which
Rudde would pay him.
* * #
Rudde and Pounce, therefore, when they met
saluted each other as old acquaintances.
As-the latter descended from the caravan on the
road-gate near the homestead, Rudde welcomed
him.
“Quite well, Mr. Pounce? ’Ope you’re better,
sir. You must be since you ’sumed bis’ness, sir.”
. Ah, how do, Rudde ? Hope I see you well, on
this auspicious day ? Yes, I’m better—just able
to do a little to oblige my friends.” 4
“ Glad to ’ear it, sir. You’ve got somethin’ for
me, I suppose ?”
Yes, Rudde an Fnglish letter, from your
wife s mother, Rudde, I believe, informing you,
I’m sorry to say, of the untimely decease of your
late lamented partner. Mr. Slyde gave me the
letter for you. ” And he handed Rudde a folded
paper.
“Wife’s mother?” said Rudde. “My ol’
■’©Oman’s mother turned up ’er toes afore I was
lagged !”
“Indeed !” said Pounce, surprised. ‘‘l don't
think I made a mistake. I’m sure Mr. Slyde said
it was your wife’s mother the letter was to come
from!”
Miy wife s brother , I told th’ master,’’answered
the recipient of the letter.
, " I see—one or the other has misunder-
stood. Well, the wording will have to be varied
slightly, because I have addressed—l meant the
writer has addressed—you as 1 my dear son.’ ”
“Thet ’udn’t ’ev done, any’ow, Mr. Pounce,”
grinned the newly-made widower. “Th’ ol’
mother ’ated me as pison—an’ ’sides, < she c’u’dn’b
write. The letter’s got to be from Dick !”
“ Well, it’s fortunate you noticed it now—a
smaller thing than this lias upset a marriage be-
fore now. Bub we’ll go inside, and I’ll make the
correction.” . ry
. ‘But, Mr. Pounce, you’ll ’ev to-’ev th’same
in jL won’t ye, as you ’rote t’other with ? ” •
Ihe Nestor among “ penmen smiled on the
uncultured ignorance of his questioner, and
JONES: “ Hullo, mate! Things seem better with you than they were.”
SMITH: “By Jove, they are, old chappie. Starving in Sydney, I came to
Protectionist Melbourne, got a good billet, live well, and as I buy
my clothes at Crawford King & Co.’s wholesale store, I can turn out
decently for about three notes.”
answered him with the garrulity of the proud
rogue. ;
“ My dear Rudde, you must learn that a piaster
j-m ll i Uslliess '? lievei ’ deterred by such trifling
difficulties as arise from different inks,“and post-
marks, and seals, and signatures. Only appren-
tices and journeymen are compelled to. heed points
of that sort. To the proficient there is but one
insurmountable obstacle.”
May I ax.wot that is ? ” sajd the usurer as he
preceded the Expert into the house. •
“ The watermark, sir, the watermark. My
curse be on the man who invented the watermark!
But for a— — watermark I’d ha’ been one o’ the
wealthiest men in London City, Rudde. ’Twaa
the watermark that undid me, sir.”
And with this aggrieved sigh over the irretriev-
able past, Mr. Pounce set to work to correct the
blunder. And within half-an-hour he placed in
Rudde’s hands that which would pass muster in any
court of law, as a true and exact account of the
death at Hayes, Rent, nine months before, of
Rudde’s wife Mary. “ She prayed for you in her
last moments, Rudde,” said the “ penman “ her
erring husband, y’know, and that sort o’ thing—
it always fetches Parson Marsden.”
“You’re right, Mr. Pounce. Tip the minsters
som’think ’bout repentinse an’ furgtveness, an’ it
does ’em an’ everybody a ’eap o’good.”
* * '*
The preliminary dismissal (to the satis-
faction of Messrs. Slyde, Pounce and Rudde) of
the “just cause and impediment” to the latter’s
legal entrance upon another marriage tie having
been thus effected, only one Thing remained to be
done to consummate the scheme —the choice of
the bride.
According to our modern notions, this particular
thing should have been the first matter attended
to, and not the last. But then, judged in the
light of the System, the ideas of to-day appear
absurdly strait-laced. The principal thing, ac-
cording to the System, was to obtain permission
to marry; the selection of the bride would come
afterwards. The reversal of the process was never
openly tolerated by the authorities, for it would
have implied that very independence of judgment
on the part of the transports which ,it was the
stated design of the System to stamp our.
i “ You’ll come with me, Mr. Pounce, to th’
Factory, an’ give me your advice, sir 1”. asked
Rudde.
“ H’rn, ah ! No, I’m afraid not. Should ha’
been happy, but then if Parson Marsden was to
see me, he’d smell a rat. He knows my—h’m—
profession of old.”
“ W’y ye don’ mean as ’e ever gav’ ye a job ? ”
“No, I can’t truly say that he did. But he
knows I had St. John’s register through my hands,
does the old Parson, and he strongly suspects
my—h’m—proficiency in—-h’m—correcting clerical
errors. So I don’t think I’ll go with you. But
you have my best wishes, and the happy bride, too.
And my blessing also.”
And the scamp went through the pantomime of
blessing a kneeling couple. “Bless you, my
children, bless you ! ”
“ W’y,” admiringly said the fortunate bride-
groom, “ Pa’son Marsden c’u’dn’t ha’ done it
better. An’ now, Mr. Pounce, wot do I owe ye,
for this letter-bisness ? ”
“Oh, my good Rudde, Mr. Slyde and I’ll settle
that between us—l have a running account with
him. Don’t you bother about that.”
(The existence of that “ running account,” let
us say, was the main thing which kept Mr.
Pounce’s corpse out of a quicklimed grave. And
Mr. Pounce well knew it!)
“Thank ye, thank ye,” replied Rudde, “well.
I’ll be off, then, sir, if you won’t come. So good
day to ye.”
And the blesser and the blest parted, the former
to go to Mrs. Walker’s inn to wait for the “ up ”
caravan, and the latter to proceed to the Factory
for the purpose of selecting a bride.
* * *
Mrs. Gordon, matron of the Female
Factory, a short, stout, hare-lipped woman, read
out Rudde’s permit and its official endorse-
ments :
Henry Rudde;
ship, Lord Lynedoch.
Barracks,, Sydney, Deo. 15,183-.
I hereby grant to ray assigned
servant,' named in the margin,
permission to marry.
(Sd.) E. A. Slyde,
Employer of Assigned Labour.
Countersigned,
E. A. Slyde,
Magistrate. 15/12/’3—. ’ ‘
Memo.— Urgent.
The transport within-named is hereby authorised to
select one (1) wife from the third-class inmates of Female
Factory and House of Correction, Parramatta, and the
matron is hereby instructed to facilitate the proceedings.
The Chaplain of the Factory will officiate. Banns dis-
pensed with, in view of the transport’s early return to his
assigned service ; matron to report selection.
(Sd.) E. A. Slyde, P.M.,
Acting Barrack-Master.
“You are Henry Rudde, per Lord Lynedoch ? ”
queried Mrs. Gordon.
“Yes, ’m,” Overseer Rudde, over whom bash-
fulness was gradually creeping, managed to make
reply.
“You can choose the woman now, but you
can’t be married till the mornin’. Mr. Marsden’s
in town, and won’t return till to-morrow.”
Unkind Fate —thus to deprive Rudde for one
day of his brief honeymoon !
*See The Bulletin, Got, 1890. “The Sons of the
r a there,
t By Regulation, punishments of more than 50 lashes
coma not be inflicted except in the presence of a surgeon.


Wolfe’s Schnapps should be in every house.
A good bed companion—Wolfe’s Schnapps.
Wolfe’s Schnapps—popularity increases yearly.
If your liver troubles you take Wolfe’s Schnapps-
Mind you g4 Wolfe’s Schnapps.
A pure spirit—Wolfe’s Schnapps.
If out of sorts try Wolfe’s Schnapps.
Wolfe’s Schnapps, the purest spirit procurable
Ask for Wolfe’s Schnapps and take no other.
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
If in need of a stimulant take Wolfe’s Schnapps,
Wolfe’g Schnapps—look for £1 orders.
The original genuine article —Wolfe’s Schnapps.
PURE a"° OLD
AUSTRALIAN
* "
Wines.
* ■ .
SPECIALITIES;
CLARET and HOCK.
CALDWELL & CO,
Melb ourzxe,
AND
Lake Albert Vineyard, Wagga Wagga, N.S.W,
But I’ve only got three days’ leave, datin’
froua to-day, an’, unless I get spliced at wanst,
will ’ev no fun mum. Can’t you let me pick th’
ooman now, an’ we’ll come back to-rnorrer an’
suit th’ Pa’son’s convenunse ?”
At this audacious suggestion the Matron’s
wrath was righteously stirred up.
“ What d’ye mean, man ? I’ve a good mind to
have you locked up till Mr. Marsden comes—
wishing to get a girl away from the Institution
without marrying her. He’d give you twelve
months if I did!”
“ Please, mum, I didn’t mean no ’arm,” expos-
tulated the affrighted Rudde, who had thrown
out the proposal in the innocency of his heart,
and from the depths of his belief that Mrs. G. was
an unusually accommodating personage (as indeed
s h® was to well-to-do men). “ I’d reely bring
th’ girl back to-morrer to be tied up, 1 would,
mum, an’ no lies.”
“How much money have you got?” inquired
the virtuous Matron. “You’ll have to leave some
cash with me. you know, to get the young woman
some things.”
“I didn’t know, mum, I thort as th’ System—
did—did sum’think o’ that kind ! ”
“ Well, I’ve heard of you,” rejoined Mrs. Gor-
don, contemptuously, “as bein’ Mr. Slyde’s over-
seer at his farm. But I always gave Slyde credit
for pickin’ out men with some brains, and not per-
fect fools—like you ! For you must be a fool to
think anything o’ the sort. We give our girls
baby-linen, an’ that’s too much —if I’d my way I’d
give ’em strawy no more—but we don’t give ’em
weddin’ gowns. How much money have you
got? that’s the question.”
By dint of the narrowest economies, the six-
pence per day wages Rudde received from Mr
tilyde, by grace of the System, had mounted up
to twelve pounds, and sundry surreptitious and
unauthorised disposals of cabbages had enlarged
the sum to fifteen. Not much to marry on, thought
Rudde—-but, then, if business at the pound went
well, he’d make as much as that in a month of
married existence.
“Fifteen pounds J—you’ve fifteen pounds, have
you i retorted the Matron. “ Well, now, you’ll
have to give me five o’ that for the girl’s things.”
•■Five !” Mr. Rudde was so appalled that he
could hardly believe his ears. A third of his
wealth for a bride—’twas too much !
“ Yes, five, and the girl as you’re to marry ’ll be
dirt-cheap at the price. She’s a real beauty.
Come, hand over ! ”
“ But I ain’t seen anyone yet, an’ I don’t want
a beauty as much as a real, serviceable y’ung
ooman !’’
“Look here, Rudde, you’ve just got to take
what your master wishes. You don’t know it yet,
o’ course, but I’m not doin’ wrong in tellin’ you
You’ve got to take pretty Rosy Lodge.* Mr,
*>lyde has sent me a note to say that’s what you’re
to do—she’s just the wife for you.”.
With fingers that trembled less from his great
regret at parting with his money than from the
impotent anger at the circumstance that he was
to have no voice in the selection of his spouse,
Rudde counted out some Australasian bank-notes.
“One, two, three, four, five —that’s right,” said
Mrs. Gordon, flipping the last note, “and now it’s
the custom, you know', to give my daughter a
pun’-note, just for luck!” And the additional
pound having been transferred with a gesture that
was more grudging than graceful, Mr. Rudde w'as
forthw'ith ushered into the room variously known
to the patrons of the Female Factory as the
“hitching-room,” the “pairing-room,” and the
“ stable.”
When Governor Darling inspected the Factory,
Father Marsden, w>ho was officiating as cicerone,
gave it a different name. He introduced the
sacred spot to Sir Ralph in this classic way
“ And this, your Excellency, is the ante-
chamber to our Colonial Temple of Hymen !” The
Reverend Samuel’s rhetoric on this occasion was
almost as pretty as when he sentenced a man to
be flogged several successive days till he should
confess complicity in a crime alleged against him.
“In this punishment, my man,” he said, “you
will not fail to observe the chastisement of an
offended Heaven.”
• * •
Huddled i a group at one end of the
long, low chamber, Mr. Rudde perceived a number
of white-capped, print-gowned women—young,
middle-aged, elderly. They were the “ eligibles ”
who had been “ trotted up ” for the benefit, not of
Rudde, whose fate was fore-doomed, but of three
or four “Government men ” who were on similar
errands bent.'
“Rudde gazed at the “ third-classers.” In the
centre was standing just the person to suit him,
if he only dare follow his own inclination—a
woman verging on middle-age, but with some
fairness of feature still clinging to her, and with
a robustness of frame that argued good working
powers. He would have liked to crook his little
finger towards her, but, then, what would Slyde
say?
“ Rosy Lodge,” shrieked the Matron. And
Mr. Rudde and his bride-to-be were formally
introduced.
* * #
“ Rosy, my dear.” sweetly said Mrs.
Gordon, “this good gentleman’s come to marry
you ; he’s Mr. Slyde’s farm overseer.” And then,
turning to the bridegroom elect, she continued,
“This is Rosy, Mr. Rudde. She’ll make you a
good wife, I’m sure. And there’ll be a little one
soon, Mr. Rudde—of course, Rosy’ll come back
hereof or that—and while some men’ud object on
that account, you're too sensible, I’m sure. For
you’ll understand that the child'll be such a help
wton it grows up, and'll save you money ; for the
sergeant (her husband) and Parson Marsden, and
everybody says labour’ll get dearer and not
cheaper. And so, now, my dears,- I’ll just leave
you to yourselves for a bit. And. if you do want
Rosy particularly, Mr. Rudde, and will faithfully
promise to bring her back for parson in the
mornin’ —well, she may go to-night!”
* # #
Stupefied, swindled, Mr. Rudde began to
see daylight. He now comprehended both Mr.
Slyde's desire to see him married, and the full
significance of the instructions Mrs. Gordon had
received that he (Rudde) was to marry Rosy and
no one else. And he rivalled what lie had heard
of a six-months’-old scandal. Rumour in Sydney,
half a year back, had delighted in relating how
Captain Woode, of the —th, had kicked Mr,
Slyde out of his quarters at one o’clock in the
morning, and how he had followed up the ex-
pulsion of the police magistrate by sending his
nurse-maid and housekeeper to the Factory." “on
suspicion of loose practices.” Yes, Rudde thought
he understood.
To make quite sure, he ventured to delicately
interrogate the beautiful little girl who stood
gazing at him with, oh ! so deep a current of
maidenly innocence sunning its surface in her
eyes !
“Was you—l mean, missy—’ad you anythink
to do wi’ Cap'n Woode?”
One of the two was blushing excessively. It
was not the girl, who answered, giggling:—
“ I was his nurse-girl,”
“ But th’ Cap’n—he’s a single man ?”
“ So he is, but I was assigned to him."
“ An’ Mr. Slyde—do ye know ’im ?”
“Rather!” The girl laughed outright at tl
absurdity of the question. She not know Slyde
“ Wot was this I ’erd ’bout the Capt’n an’ m
master?”
“Look here, Rudde, or what’s your name, i :
you want to marry mo, do so, and take me as
am. If you don’t, shut up ! I ain’t going to b
examined by you—you ain’t a beak-or a parson.’
“ Well, you may as well toll mo ’bout the leetlo
un Mrs. Gordon spoke of. Is it Woode’s o
Slyde’s?’’ pursued the projected victim at th
Hymeneal altar.
“I don’t know,” giggled the sweet thing.
* # #
In vain did Mr. Rudde seek to withdraw
his six pounds from Mrs. Gordon’s hands, or tf
obtain permission to exchange the beautiful gir
for a person of maturer charms but of loss fragil
virtue.
“A bargain’s a bargain, Mr. Rudde,” declare!
the High Priestess of the Temple, “and for you
own sake I’d advise you not to cross Slyde. Slyde’s
nasty when crossed.” And—
The very next forenoon the bonds which helc
Henry Rudde and Rosaline Lodge to the System
were not the only fetters which crippled them.
They were linked in the bonds of Holy Matri-
mony. Officiating clergyman : the Rev. Samuel
Marsden, J.P.
As Rudde proclaimed himself a widower, Mr.
Marsden looked up suspiciously,
“ How long have you been a widower ? I want
some proof of that.”
But the documentary evidence was amply suffi-
cient to set the Chaplain’s mind at rest.
As the newly-married couple were passing from
the church to the inn where they had sojourned
the previous evening, Mr. Slyde,P.M., visiting the
village on some magisterial business, encountered
them.
“Ah, Rudde, done the trick, eh? And Rosy,
too! Well, I’m glad o’ that. A very neat-
matched pair! And, Rosy, you’ll be able to
SCRIPTURAL CONSOLATION.
Severe Adorer (about to enter the ministry): “ I trust you find a great
deal of comfort in thinking of Scripture verses.”
Interesting Invalid : “Yes, indeed! That text, ‘Grin and bear it,’ does
me a heap of good.” —LITE.
keep that farmhouse pretty neat now—Mrs, Slyde
and I are coming up frequently.”
Mrs. Slyde, however, never did go up. There
was no need. Mrs. Rudde looked after Mr. Slyde's
comfort.
linally, “the little ’un ” became in course of
time a member of the Legislature.
PRICE WARUNG.
See Thk Bui.t.ktin, Nov. 15, 1»!)0. “Mr. Mvde’g
Auction."
[Although, in the course of publishing this series of
“ Tales of ‘ The System,’” the fact has been frequently
stated implicitly that each narrative was founded on
actual incidents, the particular conditions reflected in
this story are of such a scandalous nature as to demand
from us a more direct assurance. We may, therefore,
inform our readers (1) that every one of the material
circumstances interwoven with the “ Tale ” is authenti-
cated by official testimony of one sort or another; and
(2) that the conversations which have been introduced to
link historic occurrences together are little more than
paraphrases of either officially-recorded speeches, or, of
the remarks (noted in diaries and other papers to which
“ Price Warung ” has had access) made by the persons
who are the originals of the characters of the story.
When our contributor has deviated from fact, he has done
so in the interests of decency.— Ed. Bulletin.]
The Federation Council meets at Sydney,
March 2.
Dear Bulletin, —Why is this thus 1 A
“3.C.” teacher of an 8th class N.S.W. State-
school gets “ AC.” pay. A “3.A.” teacher in
charge of a ninth-class school gets ninth-class pay.
This, as the Dutchman says, is a leetle too different
Hal.— Yours, Dominie.
The sentences passed upon Shearer Rae
are unspeakably brutal and utterly illogical from
any point of view save that of savage revenge and
unmixed tyranny. Should Rae bo allowed to
continue in prison his incarceration will lead to
lamentable exhibitions of bad blood between
Labour and Law. If Rae serves any more than
28 days—14 days each for the two admittedly
separate offences committed by him—ho will, if
the N.S.W. authorities wish to be consistent, have
to serve two years and 19 weeks, for if liable for an
hour over the lunar month he is liable for the whole
term. Minister of Justice Gould had better settle
up this serious question without delay, for to
neglect it means a declaration of war to the knife
against every Trade Unionist in N.S. Wales.
The meed of merit for promoting personal
comeliness, is due to J. C. Ayer & Co., whoso
Hair Vigor is a universal beautifier of the hair.
Harmless, effective, and agreeable, it ranks among
thb indispensable toilet articles.
I Dear Bulletin, —What you have said in
Plain English about du Chaillu puts us in mind of
how London Punch ridiculed his little book, with
the picture of dwarfs on the cover. I knew Paul
du 0'., and even I did not quite hold him with the
same respect as a routine flush. Punch’s little
joke was in tho list of new books. One was ;
“Shall you, or shall you not? —an African story,
by Mr. Do Shall You.” And now, what of Stan-
ley? Really I believe him, i.e., I believe him to
be what one of the nigger chiefs christened him—
a couching fire-knob. N.B.—Thirty pounds in
cash and a litter of fox-terrier pups to the first
man who thoroughly sees that joke.— Scotty the
Wrinkler. .
Henry Gawler, son of the early Governor
of South Australia who got so mixed up with the
officials, is a wag in his way. It is related of him
that one night, having missed the train at Gienelg,
he strolled into what he took to be a lecture-hall,
but which turned out to be a Methodist Chapel, and
he found himself in the swing of a prayer-meeting,
much to his disgust. The parson had a full head
of steam on, and when he had blown off he espied
Gawler, who, as usual, was clad in sombre gar-
ments. Thinking him a lay brother he asked our
dear friend to “offer up,” and Gawler, who has a
marvellous memory and a taste for elocution,
tumbling to the humour of the situation, solemnly
delivered the Litany; the dissenting brethren,
who had never heard it, yearningly gloating over
the responses, “Spare us, good Lord,” &c., and
all that sort of thing. After a “ precious time” the
stranger brother was asked to visit them again,
his eloquent prayer having completely fetched the
flock.
There is a coterie of men in Melbourne
who go by the name of the “Lovely Dozen.”
They wear black frock coats, rather shiny, and
bell-toppers, greased so as to look new (at a
distance). But you can never guess their occupa-
tion. The “ Quatorzieme ” of Paris, who holds
himself in readiness to sit at a dinner-party where
perchance the guests number thirteen, is less to
be wondered at than these followers of an excep-
tionally precarious means of obtaining colonial
ale. They are jurymen. Not good men and true
for the trial of etc., but ghouls who sit on bodies.
They go four and four up Lonsdale-street and
along every side of the Hospital that can be got
at, < taking care to keep the entrances in sight.
This is only done when they hear of a death, A
policeman meets four and bail's them up for an
inquest. They protest that they have business
but they go, and just then the other four heave in
sight. In this simple manner they make four
shillings, sixteen pints. They have also the gaol
and the Benevolent Asylum from which the lively
corpse is inquested, and thus we find, in the midst
of death we are in life—S. LE W.
From a Melbourne weekly, which appeals
to the higher culture of the Cabbage Garden and
makes plucky attempts to hoist literature up to
the mental altitude of Chinese settlements, we
cull some sweet-scented blossoms of fresh young
humour. “Galvanised Bob won the oake for
eating duck at the J/erchanics’ the other night;
we think he deserves it after licking Jockey D.”
Again : “Who is the married womens watching the
men at the pub?” Also: “Mary says she has
sphered the barber.” Bouquets composed of
similar flowers of speech are freely slung at pur-
chasers of the above-mentioned periodical, each
bunch being gathered in its own particular dis-
trict. Those under notice came from a place
called Natimuk, but seem only partially charac-
teristic of their birthplace, unless the name given
be a misprint for Nastymuk. In any case, how-
ever, The Bulletin cordially congratulates Mary
on having “spehered” the'barber, because she
must be a lady of original mind to have accom-
plished a feat that is, so far as we know, unparal-
lelled in the history of Victoria.
To overcome weakness. —Pepper’s Quinine
and Iron Tonic gives new life, appetite, health,
strength, energy. Cures neuralgia, indigestion,
nerve debility. Bottles, 2s. 6d. Insist on having
Pepper’s Tonic.
The Choicest Jewellery. Dahms & Co., King-st. Arcade
Fprtune for a few pounds.—Buy land in the
Capital City of West Australia. W. J. Douglas,
90 Bathurst-street, /-Sydney.
Amusement of a profitable nature. Ladies,
make your own dresses by procuring one of our
dress stands ; they are indispensable for altering,
trimming, and re-arranging dresses. They are, in
fact, a household necessity. We make them to
fold up so as to go in trunks. Write for parti-
culars to Eastvyay Brothers. Dress Stand Makers.
411, George-street, Sydney.
Another Melbourne coffee palace—the
Grand—is getting shaky in its temperance
principles, and tired of impressing the beauties of
the good cause upon whited sepulchres who have
rum laid on under the bed. At the recent half-
yearly meeting of shareholders in this converted
pub, a sorrowful abstainer announced, with water
in his eyes, that dividends were in the air and the
company had decided to bring down a heavy
deficiency on account, or financial eloquence to
that effect. The Chairman didn’t say there was
no sense in running the Grand as a private
inebriate retreat for such persons as wouldn’t even
sober up on the local fluids or eat on the premises,
but he spoke of retrenchment in a soft, low voice
and wagged his head. And when auctioneer
Bay lee arose to suggest that their only chance lay
in asking the Drink Fiend to return like the
Prodigal to the home of the Reohabite—well, the
meeting heard the Fiend’s supporter without a
shudder. They didn’t repudiate the bare thought
of getting a License to wreck souls and bodies,
but they gazed towards Heaven and seemed un-
commonly doubtful when the next speaker “ did
not think they had reached that stage yd." But
they will reach it. Lack of dividends will drag
them down, down, down to the unhallowed selling
of spirituous liquors, and the price of shares will
fatten on the nourishing extract of immoral
degradation.
London Truth publishes in all seriousness
an American gentleman’s system of telling which
point is the north by looking at one’s watch. The
ingenious Yankee has discovered that if you
point the hour-hand to the sun, the direction of
the South Pole lies exactly half-way between the
hour and figure XII on the watch. As, for
example : If the hour-hand be pointed to the sun
at four o’clock, then the figure II directs exactly
south. Or, at eight o’clock, the figure IV will be
due south. So far, the system does work all
right. At other periods of the day it is apt to be
a snare, however. The writer, at seven o’clock
p.m., pointed figure VII towards the setting
sun and found that south was north. And at six
o’clock, as must be obvious to every searcher after
new truths, there were two half-ways between the
hour hand and figure XII. Besides, neither half
way truthfully indicated the south. After giving
the system a fair trial it doesn’t surprise us to find
that when Stanley was questioned concerning
“ this simple mode of discovering the points of
the compass, he said that he had never heard of
it.” Let that American gentleman call at The
Bulletin office and explain how the dickens his
Waterbury will tell the course of the north wind
at noon, when there is no half way between the
hour-hand and figure XII, and the ticker has to be
held in a perpendicular position. Anyhow, the
alleged system was a fable of our childhood, and
probably existed as an unfounded allegation ere
America discovered itself.
Nehemiah Bartley, of Brisbane, in a paper
read before the local “ Royal ” Society, seriously
maintains that gold grows :— '
About 20 years ago I became possessed of a mineral
specimen from the Wide Bay district. It looked, on the
one side, like a piece of lead that had been melted and
stained by being dropped into fine quartz and gravel; on
the other side it showed a cleaner appearance, like cor-
roded lead, and when cut with a knife ifwas soft, and
•bowed a smooth, bright surface as section of lead-pipe
when similarly cut would do. For 12 years, up till 1882,
this specimen lay alone and unnoticed in a drawer. At
the end of that time a speck of gold showed itself on one
corner of the cleaner surface of the specimen, and in
eight years this speck of gold has travelled nearly half-
way across the face of the specimen, increasing in size as
it went, and is now a patch in place of a speck of gold, and
it has cut a groove for itself as it travelled across the faoa
of the specimen, which groove spreads laterally and in front
as well as behind the travelling patch of gold, not unlike
the track of a caterpillar or a silkworm on the cabbage or
mulberry-leaf respectively. But this is not all. On the
adjoining corner of the specimen another speck of gold
•bowed out for the first time two years ago, but it is too
young yet either to expand or to travel as its eight-year-
old brother has done. I produce the specimen, and offer
no opinion as to the cause of the evolution of the gold
from its matrix, and hope the said specimen will be care-
fully handled so as to avoid abrasion, and leave Nature to,
work out her operation on the face of it, so that all may,
•ee how she does it. I may here mention another curious
fact about a gold specimen. I got it in 1874. It was
from the Etheridge, and was very rich, for it was
picked out of a bucketful of quartz which yielded
450 ounces of gold. The specimen lay for some time in,
a drawer near to a bright lump of chaloo-pyrite
from Wallaroo, South Australia (yellow copper ore). la
course of time the gold on the specimen became coated
with a bright amber and orange-coloured efflorescence,
and it looked like a piece of sulphide of copper with no
signs of gold about it. A dip in nitric acid restored ita
former golden purity of appearance,, and it was kept away
from the bad company of the gentleman from Wallaroo;
but contamination had done its work, and in a few months
out bloomed the “peacock copper ” hues again, only once
more to be slain in the aquafortis ; hut to no purpose, for
the copper “seed ” seemed to have been sown in the gold,
and each period of rest after the acid bath brought out
the sulphurous eruption again all over the nobler metal,
hiding its real nature. I do not know how the matter
would have ended, for I was taken ill after one
of these gold “baths” which revealed the value of the
specimen, and it was “ annexed” by one of the numerous
low class womankind who on various pretexts find
the entree into sick rooms on these occasions. I saw it no
more, and regret that I cannot produce it also for your
inspection ; but, I might ask ( apropos of the above),
“ does copper grow ” as well as gold ? A curious vesicular
rock specimen which I got from New Caledonia, in 1872,
has, of late years, "broken out” into gold in various
places where gold was not visible at all when I first got it.
I produce this for your inspection. It is quite unlike
any Australian rock that I ever saw, auriferous or other-
wise ; but a ton of it gave 64ozs. of gold to a mere barrel-
organ, so to speak, of a crushing-machine. I hope these
specimens will help to clear up some of the mysteries
which surround “ El Oro,” the unobtrusive “littlesister,”
as it were, the Cinderella of the metals, the least gorgeous
in its ore, hut the most indestructible and constant of
them all.


Medical.
NERVOUS MEN.
m
K'
5!
EUREKA
ELECTRIC
BELTkV
M
-tNr
SSs
A NEVER FAILING CURE FOR ALL.
DISEASES OF THE NERVOUS SYSTEM.
Complete with Suspensory Appliances from £l. 0. 0 and
onwards. This famous Electric Magnetic Belt will cure
NERVOUS DEBILITY, Seminal Debility, Impotence,
and all weakness caused by indiscretion. Pains in the
Back, Lumbago, Giddiness, Rheumatism, Kidney and
Bladder complaints, and in fact any disease of the Nervous
System. The currents are steady and constantly felt by
the wearer. It has great improvements over all other
belts, we are willing to furnish those belts on 30 days
trial, and accept payment after they have proved them-
«elvea what we represent them to be. Those belts are
made for the specific purpose of producing a continuous,
mild, soothing current of electricity through all the weak-
ened parts, restoring them to health and vigorous strength,
even the worst case permanently cured in three months.
It is more convenient to wear than any other Belt.'
A Book illustrated, containing full information and testi-
monials from prominent people throughout Australia,
and informing persons how they may obtain these belts
without paying for them until they have proved them com-
petent to cure any disease of the Nervous System, will be
forwarded to any address on receipt of a 2d stamp for
postage. 9
Address VOLTAIC BELT COMPANY
Box 916, G. P. 0., Sydney.
FOR MEN.
Loss of f-erye Korea.
Debility and Decay.
sty be perfectly regained by the C-A-"V
NDISH
TREATMENT. 1 I One 6ox, 12s. 6d„
Still Course, £l. Treatise sent sealed, 4 Stamp*.
Idixeaa-Tbo CAVENDISH
ftQ ge RU'.SELL STREET, MELBOURNE. VIC
AN OLD RETIRED
FRENCH HOSPITAL
PHYSICIAN will now
send free how to cure
Nervous and Sexual
Weaknesses, Rlood, Skjn
and Contagious Diseases.
Send six penny stamps
for sealed Treatise and
IT A
DEB
AMD
WE
NERUOU
HOME Cr lE. Parisian Agency, Box 766, Sydney.
V 1801 °
Barry!
Tricopheroos
for the
HAIR ft SKIN
ĥ
An elegant dressing ex-
quisitely perfumed, re-
moves all impurities from
the scalp, prevents bald-
ness and gray hair, and causes the hair to grew
Thick. Soft aud Beautiful. Infallible for curing
eruptions, diseases of the skin, glands and muscles,
and quickly healing cuts, burns, bruises, sprains, &c.
Caution.— None genuine without the trade-mark of
Barclay & Co,, New York, affixed to each bottle
-
Barry’s
Pearl
Cream
r for the
Complexion
Imparts to the darkest skin a clear, natural white,
tinged with the faintest rose blush. Speedily removes
Wrinkles, Freckles, Sunburn and Tan, and mantles
the faded cheek with youthful bloom and beauty.'
CAUTION, —None genuine without the trade mark
Of Barclay & Co., New York, affixed to each bottle
“Throw Physic I Dogs!’’
TRY NATURE’S OWN REMEDY, r
ELECTRICITY.
PROFESSOR
MINIATURE
, ALLEN’S
Galvanic Battery
Is acknowledged by Eminent Physicians, and by
thousands of sufferers to bo n positive Remedy for
nearly all the ailments mankind is heir to. The effi-
cacy of this Wonderful Invention as a curative agent
is certainly The Crowning Medical and Scien-
tific Triumph of the 19th Century.'
This BATTERY is not larger than a half-crown
piece, and is worn on the chest, next the skin, suspen-
ded by a silk cord around the neck. The several
metals of which it is composed are so arranged that the
natural humidity of the skin is sufficient to set the chem-
icals in the amalgamated metals in motion, generating
a constant bnt gentle flow of Electricity which passes
from the Battery into the system, purifying the Blood,
strengthening the Nerves,[Brain and Muscles, infusing
fresh vigor into the Debilitated Constitution, Stimu-
lating the Vital Organs to their proper action and en-
abling nature to throw off numerous diseases. -
■ The Battery will euro the following ailments:—
Headache, Rheumatism, Sciatica, Neuralgia, Ulcers,
And Tumors, Nervous Debility, Impotence, Liver Com-
plaints, Fever and Ague, Disease of the Kidneys and
Urinal Organs. Bronohitus, Asthma, Diphtheria, Fits,
Constipation, Piles, Heart Disease, Paralysis, Disease
of the Lungs and Throat, Skin Disorders, and almost
every form of Aches and Pains,
The Battery has a soothing effect upon children
while teething. Illustrated Circular sent free, giving
full particulars and directions for use,
PHoe FIVE SHILLINGS
By Post to any address, or supplied bvnll Chemists
»nd Storekeepers. H. DAVY &■ Co . Agents, 254
Blitaheth St„ Melbourne.
A
Medical.
WONDERFUL MEDICINE.
Beecliam’s Pills
<b
PATENT
PILLS
sK
&
Are universally admitted
to be worth a Guinea
a Box for bilious
and nervous disorders,
such as wind and pain in
the stomach, sick head-
ache, giddiness, fulness
and swelling after meals,
dizziness, and drowsiness,
cold chills, flushings of
heat, loss of appetite,
shortness of breath, cos-
tiveness, scurvy, blotches
on the skin, disturbed
sleep, frightful dreams,
and all nervous and trem-
bling sensations, &o. The
first dose will giv e relief
, in twenty minutes. Every
suffeicr is earnestly invited to try one box of these
Iblls, and they will be acknowledge t 0 b e
Worth a Guinea a Box.
For females of all ages these Pills are invaluable,
as a few doses of them carry off all humors, and
bring about all that is required. No female sjiould
be without them. There is no medicine to be found
equal to BEECHAM’S PILLS for removing any
obstruction or irregularity of the system. If taken ac-
cording to the directions given with each box they will
soon restore females of all ages to sound and robust
health. This has been proved by thousands who have
tried them, and found the benefits which are ensured by
their use
For a weak stomach, impaired digestion and all disorders
of the liver, they act like “ MAGIC,” and a few doses will
be found to work wonders upon the most important
organs in the human machine. They strengthen the
whole muscular system, restore the long-lost complexion,
bring back the keen edge of appetite, and arouse into ac-
tion with the ROSEBUD of health the whole physical
energy of the human frame. These are “ FACTS ” testified
continually by members of all classes of society; and
one of the best guarantees to the nervous and debilitated
is, Beecham’s Pills have the largest sale of any patent
medicine in the world.
Beecham’s Magic Cough Pills.
As a remedy for Coughs in general, Asthma, Bronchial
Affections, Hoarseness, Shortness of Breath, Tightness
and Oppression of the Chest, Wheezing, &c., these Pills
stand unrivalled. They are the best ever offered to the
public and »ill speedily remove that sense of oppression
and difficulty of breathing which nightly deprive the
patient of rest. Let any person give Bekciiam’s Cough
Pills a trial and the most violent Cough will in a
short time be removed.
Prepared only and sold wholesale and retail by the pro-
prietor, Thomas Beecham, Chemist, St. Helens, Lancashire,
England, in boxes at Is. Ijd. and 2s. 9d. each.—Sold by
all Druggists and Patent Mediciae Dealers everywhere.
N.B.—Full directions are given with each box.
■ s
KRUPP ’nJWm
&IWANIC CHMHE&Sf\
%
t
w
ħ
IP so,
DON’T MISS THIS!
What everyone says is bound to be true, and young
and old, rich and poor, physicians who recommend, and
patients who try
The Krupp Galvanic Chain Belt,
All agree in praising that most scientific of Electro
Therapeutical Applianaes. For, Rheumatism it is un-
rivalled. Lumbago at once succumbs to its power. The
Nervous are strengthened and the Debilitated restored to
perfect health and vigour. In short, the appliance is an
unfailing cure for all Nervous, Sexual, or Chronic Diseases,
and is GUARANTEED to ABSOLUTELY CURE, com-
pletely and lastingly, the following complaints:
Dyspepsia, Neuralgia, Pains in the Back and Chest,
Lumbago, Catarrh, Rheumatism, Dumb Ague,
Nervous Debility, Paralysis, Kidney Complaint,
Spinal Disease, Female Weakness, Diseases of the
Liver, Impotence, Seminal Weakness, Diabetes,
Sciatica, Atrophy, Gout, Indigestion, Asthma, Piles,
Epilepsy Spermatorrhoea, Specks before the Eyes,
Excessive Heart Palpitation, Defective Memory.
An Unfailing Cure Far Varicocele-
It is a PORTABLE BODY BATTERY, and contains
special appliances for both sexes; therefore, why waste
your money and health by procuring and taking USELESS
DRUGS? Electricity, when properly applied, is acknow-
ledged by all leading and unprejudiced physicians to bo
the only safe and radical cure for Nervous and Sexual
Diseases, and the thousands of testimonials received by
the Krupp Belt Co. from leading personages throughout
Australasia prove the unquestionable curative properties
of Electricity as applied by theappliance above referred to.
Our confidence in this appliance is so complete, that
we send the Belt out on trial, and guarantee it
to give perfect satisfaction. For full particulars as to
terms, etc., send for our large illustrated treatise, free,
in which these Belts are fully illustrated, the action of
electricity on the nervous system explained, and a lot of
useful information on nervous and sexual diseases given,
This treatisealso contains facsimile of testimonials received
from some of our clients who have tried our Belts. Tito
originals of these testimonials produced on application.
jar* The prices of the Krupp Galvanic Chain Belt and
Suspensory are from £I. .
Sole Inventor .. . Carp Knurr.
Business Manager . . A. W, Courtney.
Address all oommunicat'ons to the
Krupp Galvanic Chain Belt Co.,
Box 647, G.P.0., Sydney, N.S.W.
Remember—The K.G. Chain Belt cures without medicine,
is easy to wear, is sent on approval, and the first cost is
the only cost.
CONSULT PROFESSOR SELBY,
376 Cleveland Street, Surry Hills, Sydney,
Personally or by letter on Chronic Complaints
of the Nervous System, Diseases of the Urinary
Organs and all Impurities of the Blood. A Positive
Cure in all cases amendable to treatment. Suf-
ferers should read the Professor’s valuable treatise,
sent post free to all who send their address. It
contains Advice on Mabiuaok, worth weight
in gold
Easiness Annoi iiceiuents
rjll IE BANK OF NEW ZEALAND
JL Sydney Branches :
04 PITT STREET, and 538 GEORGE STREET.
Paid-up Capital .. ... £825,000
Uncalled Capital 75,000
Reserve Liability ... ... 1,500,000
£2,400,000
The Bank has Agents in all the principal cities
throughput the United States of America and
Canada, and can offer special facilities for dealing
in Bullion, Bills of Exchange, Commercial and
Travellers’ Letters of Credit.
Drafts issued and Bills collected on most favour-
able terms, at rates which can be ascertained on
application.
N. F. GIBLIN, Manager.
V&T A BLESSING IN EVERY FAMILY.
HOLLOWAY’S PILLS AND OINTMENT.
There is not a country in the civilised world where
the healing virtues of thes ® grand medicines have not been
recognised by thousands of sufferers. In all the ordinary
ailments of humanity their beneficent action is at once
recognised. Fullest directions are supplied for their use
in every disease. IF YOU SUFFER, TRY THEM. Manu-
factured only at 78 New Oxfoku-st., London. jESf" Pur-
chasers should look to the Label on the Boxes and Pots.
If the address is not 523 Oxford-street, London, they are
spurious.
S 3
f
HAIR WORK DONE
%
*r-
<#
PS 5 VATE. 1
/n% 2 4 \
/ROYAL ARCADK
MELBOURNE
J. SITTERLIN,
FROM PARIS,
Ladies’ Hairdresser. Wigmaker, & Perfumer,
25 SYDNEY ARCADE, SYDNEY.
HISTORICAL AND FANCY HAIRDRESSING A
SPECIALTY.
Manufacturer of All Kinds op Theatrical
and Street Wigs.
Ammonia ted Quinine,
The most efficient Hair Lotion, to prevent prema-
ture baldness.
Sitterlin’s Vegetable Hair-dye,
The only Hair-dye in the colonies to restore Plight
Hair to its natural colour. All shades.
Success G-uaranteedLi
MANUFACTURING HATTERS
GEORGE STREET
SYDNEY
IMPORTERS OF ALLTHE
NEWESTSHAPES.
And at ALBERT STREET, BRISBANE.
fIUCH'S
(
THE BEST
IN THE WORLD
M
m
mmm.
’Mzr ■ gT-a
MUFACTURED 6/ , Xj.
James Cmnw/u JtarLovrS' A \
Jcld ttj all SAsctXt) <> SScreAetfirro „i
f&f
Business Announcements.
A. BOWMAN’S
LONDON MADE
Porpoise Hide Boots
Are Reduced from 20s. to 21s.
249 PITT ST., SYDNEY, Near Tattersall's.
Porpoise Hide Wears Twice as Long
as any other Leather.
They are noted all over London,
Birmingham and Liverpool.
London Fashions,
AND
Fresh Goods Every Fortnight.
Trade Supplied Wholesale at a Great Advantage.
; ,
3T*t3O3T Vitas,
The Great Life Remedy & Tonic Invigorator,
IS the Best and Only Medicine which shows a
good result from the moment you take the
first dose. It acts on the blood like a charm, and
tones the internal secretions to healthy action,
I’estores strength to the stomach, and enables it to
perform its functions ; and for regulating the liver
and kidneys it has no equal. Price —4s. per
package. Also the Great Cure for Catarrh and
Influenza—the Arbor Vitoe Oil, 2s. Gd. per
bottle. Sold by all Storekeepers and Druggists,
Sole Agents for New South Wales -
Oan. SuLth-erland. & Co.
Wholesale and Retail Tobacconists,
84 King Street, Newtown, SYDNEY.
WILLIAM CARGILL,
Photographic Stock Importer,
26 MABKET STEEBT,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
ARtCOCELE-
-Its causes, s> mptoinß. and patho-
l. gv. t gether with a descr-i»tion
of a NEW and SUCCESSFUL METHCD of TREAT-
MENT WITHOUT OPERATION. idst free, two
stamps
tOFESSOR CARL STIHEWAY,
21 ELIZABETH ST . MELBOURNE, VIC.
"P|R. WESTOOTT'S AMENOKRHCEA
I / PILLS for Ladies, when taken for a few
days before, quickly correct all irregularities
from whatever cause arising ; 2s. 9d. and Is. Gd.,
by post 3s. and ss. W. H. SOUL and 00., 190
Pitt-street, Sydney, Agents.
EPPS’S
GRATEFUL—COMFORTING-
GO C O
Read.! Read ! Read I
E BULLETIN’S ”
of Botany Bay,
By Arthur Gayll.
Profuselj 7 Illustrated by The Bulletin's well-
known Artists,
L. HOPKINS and PHIL MAN.
lE* rice - One Shilling
Per post, Is. 3d.
Hotels.
THE GEORGE HOTEL
(opposite Railway Station, near Baths),
St. Kilda, Victoria.
“ TT
History
First-class Family & Commercial Hotel
Z For particulars, apply to
JE\ WIMROLE,
BROBIHEToK.
PFAHLERT’S HOTEL.
SYDNEY, NSAV.,
Opposite the Park, Wynyard Square.
(Under New Management.)
rpllis for 25 years well-known First-class Central Ilottl,
-I- recently thoroughly renovated throughout, lias every
comfort and attention of a home. The Cuisine Department
is under competent French supervision. Dining It com
open for Non-Residents. Open-air Recreation Garden,
A well-ventilated Billiard Room adjoining Recreation
Ground (three Alcock’s best Tables'), under the manage-
ment of A. Buckingham, late of Empire Hotel. Wines
and Spirits of the very best quality only, and the Finest
and Coolest Bar i n T<~ ■ ■ ■ i
HOT D C. " "> Z ATMS.
tar" »a:i roil:. .. ivcnch
Ooruian
Wlrphono \o. 150. itHllnn
Spoken.
SPECIAL SUITES FOR FAMILIES
L'llAS. HECHT ... Managkr


M
AUCTIONEERS and GENERAL AGENTS,
CORNER
Queen’s Street and Flinders Lane,
iiUAM'H OFFICES!
3JS Chapel Street, Prahran \
St Albert Street, Windsor.
MELBOURNE
(5. H. SMITH & SO.N
MANUFACTUIIEUS & IMPORTERS OF
HP*FJS PND (3PPJS,
302 George Street, Sydney
8 Doors South of Hunter Street.
mm
■ .
o.>fonl direct,
London.
ows
||
f OL ° lit
• * ' w >1
h
WHY REMAIN DEAF
Deafness completely cured by Professor Harvey's
PatcCt Electric Head Battery, self-applied and pain-
less. Ear-drums completely superseded.
Pamphlet free. 145 Collins Street East. Melbourne.
EmildlL’S CHAMPAGNE.
IDTRAW —EXTE A. QUALITY.
sole agents -for new south wai ks
CHARLES BATH & CO.,
4 Bridge Street, SYDNEY.
BORIN'S BRANDY,
In Bulk or Case, Guaranteed the pure product of the Cognac C4rape,
IS THIS BEST.
Otrfco Saatier & 00., 208 T£eat“St., Sydney,
Sole Wholesale Agents.
*
iK
m
m
•I
i
J
i
YORK S T -WYNYARD SQUARE-
„ ,
Co|v|plElEHobsE FlmNlSt-IEfIS
<***■ SEND FOR CATALOGUE
ĥ
IC. S>. CsoOidi 7
SUCCESSOR. TO
f* r B. MODXNI, Gurnnalcer, informs his Customers
a and the Public in general that he has the largest
assortment of Firearms in the colony. Qualities and prices
to defy competition. Guns by the following celebrated
guninakersJ. Pun dry & Sons, Cir. Boswell, John Rigby
and Co., Joseph Lang & Sons, Cir. Osborne & Co., Thomas
Bland & Son, W. Powell & Sons. A large assortment of
various other makers always on hand, viz., \V. W. Greener,
Scott, Webley, Hollis & Sons, Riley and Cashmore. All
goods will be faithfully guaranteed at 602 George-
Street, Sydney. Price list on application.
Facial Blemishes
+ ' speedily removes
Pimples, Bleakheads, Red Nose, Oily Skin, Red Skin and all
Cutaneous Eruptions, etc. Herr H. Salomon, expert
specialist, treats with great skill all Cutaneous Diseases,
and guarantees a quick and permanent cure. Persons
desiring treatment can, by forwarding a full description
of their case and £2, receive by return of post, the
medicines required. NERVOUS DEBILITY successfully
treated. Price, £1 per course, medicines sent unobserved.
Address:—HEßß H. SALOMON, Post Office, Auckland,
New Zealand.
JOHN BUCK H A M,
440 ELIZABETH STREET, MELBOURNE.
WENT, Tarpaulin, and Waterproof Cover
i Manufacturer. Horse Rugs, Loin Covers,
Oilskin Coats, Cab Apron®, Marquees (with or
without floor’ng and flags) for sale or hire.
JOHN BUCKHAM MELBOURNE.
Oldest established house in the trade,
When ordering please mention this ppper.]
Free Prescriptions
Are to be found in the “Light anti Life,’
for the Speedy Cure of Nervous Debility and
Kindred Diseases, &c. A copy of this book will
be sent Free, scaled, for Six Penny Stamps.
Address —
S. WARD & CO., SYDNEY PHARMACY,
76 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
‘IIIHL uo#au|»HH|l
’'■**«&£ 5 ;
E’rmp*.
PARKE & LACY CO.,
MINING & HYDRAULIC ENGINEERS
AND
GENERAL MACHINERY MERCHANTS,
&c., &C M &c.
18? & 189 Clarence Street,
SYDNEY, 3NT.S.W.
And SAM FRANCISCO, CALIFORNIA.
II!
Bock Breakers.
3
Wcstlngfionsc
HIGHLY NUIHIUVL
MAY Bt ORIAINMI IN f AHMIFU HNS UR FAURF lf» I HHIIHKWHiT THF UUIUNY
DRIKKi
iIUJ
3#^
il tm
PUNA
JUL
bran
m
AMPAO
.s>'c Afxr.tß;
HOWELL & JOSKE,
" in<* ami Spirit Merchants,
< !; t KoiirUe street, Knllsbur.v Ituililing*.
MELBOURNE.
N'
OW READY, “A GOLDEN SHANTY.
I’rice, Is. All /Scouts and Booksellers.
J. E. Salier & Co.
IMPORTERS OF
Cfas 6f[an9eliEifS fittings,
LUMBERS & GAS FITTERS’ MATERIALS,
FLETCHER’S
Of
GAS COOKING STOVES
Various Patterns.
119 Bathurst St., Sydney.
