

1
2v£axls:et Street, .
- -■■■<
U N KIVALLED ACCOMMODATIO X.
BALDWIN DRY AIR REFRIGERATOR.
Beware of the many so-called Dry Air Refrigerators advertised by unscrupulous Manufacturers and Dealers, intending'
to deceive the public and trade upon opr reputation. This is the original and celebrated Dry Air Refrigerator, made
famous by its successful competition at the leading Exhibitions in the United States for the past Six Years, known as
the Baldwin Dry Air Refrigerator.
WHITE MOUNTAIN FREEZERS, ICE MILK CANS, MIXERS,
x-:ES3ka:o:isr
SQUEEZERS, &c.,
&c.
I liri, w. WW W—> , ) .f,
512 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
ALLAN A. MARSHALL Sc GO.,
Engineers, Coppersmiths, Brass and Bell Founders,
Finishers, Plumbers, Ship & General Smiths,
Gasfitters, Art & Mediaeval Metal Worker
ROLLER SKATES (any make) with BRASS or VTOODEX WHEELS.
Verity’s Gas Fires, Heaters and Ventilators at greatly Reduced Prices—ll,ooo Fires already in nse.
Importers and Manufacturers of Diving Gear, Yacht and Boat Work of every description in
Iron or Brass, Ships’ Single and Double Action Valve Closets, Fire Hydrants, Hose and all appliances.
Ron Accord Works, 9 Macquarie Place, Sydney.
Federated Squatters
-AND—
Farmers’ Co-Operative Association of Australasia, Limited,
CIRCTJLAE S IT ID IST IE Y,
WOOL and PRODUCE BROKERS, STOCK and STATION AGENTS.
Advances Matte and Deposits Received at Current Rates. Correspondence Invited.
rpHE COLONIAL MUTUAL LIFE ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED.
BRANCHES THROUGHOUT THE COLONIES AND THE UNITED KINGDOM.
Policies issued under the Ordinary, HMCocli fleet. Tontine and Mortuary Ulvitieiici Systems.
J. <fc (J.
Howard’s Colonist 3-I'iirrow Nigging
riougii.-(K./.0.M
tsami
Howard's* Hluglc-rnirow Digging
Plough.(O.l.)
The Plougli of the Times!
PLOUGHING AND HARROWING IN ONE ACT.
Share Points only cost 6d., and are Reversible
Chafp-Cuxtkrs, Horse Gears mid every kind uf Aghioi'i.tural Implements
, idsr stock:.
E3T Enquirers please quote this paper.
280 i PITT STREET, SYDNEY
(Corner or Pitt and Bathurst Streets).
Sw
m
m
%-
r«>
u
'fl
—the—
LONDON & SYDNEY
COMPANY.
I
400— KENT STREET—4O9
(Two iloora from Market Street),
SYDNEY, K.S.AV,
—IMPORT—
HIG KC-C T, A. S S I IKT X* X JL 3ST & OH IITA
TEAS f
Packed in 201 b. and 4011). Packages, delivered nb Is. 6t1,, Is. 9d. and 2s. per lb.
(Carriage Free) to any Railway Station or Port; in New South Wales.
A Single Package at Wholesale Price. Correspondence invited andiprojaptly attended to,
The Bulletin
VoJ. 11—-N o. 524. ]
[Saturday, March 1, 1890*


IL®
■r.
m
iiiiiUi!
TJl*
’ ■
■
ifrit!
■"I
i
o
so
o
<*
V
yov\
ISIR ROGER
50
£
O
ißi
z'
DIXSONS
Dr. RIDGE’S
FOOD
FOR INFANTS AND INVALIDS
Ha* an enormous sale in England
and is now toeing introduced into the
Colonies.
Every Storekeeper should gel a supply
as every Wise mother will certainly
use it.
DR. RIDGE'S ROYAL FOOD MILLS,
LONDON, ENGLAND.
MJKSSU
c
SATIN
= nv:
! ,|l J 4/ ' V>
! k.i XADiES' ,
i?HILDRENj
i&Sc
/2 £V/j'*y*-i £
BOSTON
BROWN’S
SATIN
POLISH
FOR—
LADIES’ AND CHILDREN'S
BOOTS AND SHOES.
Awarded highest honors at
Fhila., 1876 Melbourne, 18S0
Berlin, 1877 I Frankfort, 1 :>Bl
1 ’aris, 1878 ' Amsterd’uv 1886
New Orleans, 1884-85, and wherever
exhibited.
Paris medal on every bottle.
Beware of Imitations.
This Blacking ig in liquid form and is applied to shoes
or other articles cf leather by-means of a sponge, attached
to the cork by a wire, so that the blacking can he used by
anyone without soiling the fingers. Ko polishing brush
is required. It dries immediately after being applied, and
will not soil the most delicate clothing.
Sold largely in Australia through Commission Merchants
and Dealers.
B. F. BROWN & CO.,
Boston, U.S.A., M’f'gg.
Tl> UITTENBERG & CO.
■U* IMPORTERS,
SI Clarence St., Wynjard Square.
Furniture, Mirrors, Oleographs, and Mouldings.
ATKINSON’S '
ENGLISH PERFUMERY
surpasses all others for its natural
fragrance.
ESSENCE OF WHITE ROSE
FRANGIPAHNE
STEPHANOTIS
YLANG YLANG
OPOPANAX
and other -well-known Perfumes are
unequalled for their delightful and
lasting odour.
Of all Dealeri, and of tht Mnnnf<xcinrtrt-~
J. & E. ATKINSON, i-
-24, OLD BOND STREET, LONDON.
Trade Mark—" Whiteßose’’onQolden .
Lyre, with Address in full. jfL
T. LAWLESS, Junr.,
37 MAKKET STEEET,
SYDNEY,
Fruit MeroHant.
NEY E K TRAVEL WITHOUT IT.
WANTED IN EYEEY HOUSE.
ţ
EFFECTUALLY DESTROYS,
Ait NOXIOUS INSECTS,
FLEAS FLIES B EETLES MO SOU ITO ES
COCKROACHES AND ll
AT THE SAME TIME QUITE
HARMLESS TO Bi RDS DOGS,
FOWLS OR QTHEf
ANIMALS
ť
ŧ
t
SOLD!
rNT.MSi
JPWARDSI
M\srs:
AN D STOP.LKCEPERS
WHOUSAU
wr
WANTED IN EVERY HOUSE.
Ask for KRUSE’S INSECTICIDE, and Beware
of the Numerous Imitations.
CLARENDON HOTEL, MANLY,
The Brighton of New South Wales.
AT the CLARENDON HOTEL, Banquets, Suppers, Private Dinners, Evening Parties, etc., are
served on the Shortest Notice in the Large Dining Hall. Besides having a most recherche
Dinner, you can enjoy from the balconies the magnificent view of the sea and surrounding country;
here also you can have good company, good wines—in fact, everything that can possibly make one
comfortable can be found at this really first-class hotel. Fishing and Picnic Parties provided. Table
de Hote at One o’clock daily and Sundays. No expense is spared by Mrs. Kiljiinstek to make her
visitors comfortable and her Hotel the best in the colony.
Mrs. KILMIKTSTBR, Ola.x-exx.dozx Hotel,
Opposite OCEAN BEACH, MANLY.
RICHMOND FAMILY HOTEL*
PORTLAND, VICTORIA.
John Shelton - Proprietor.
68 Hunter Street, and 8 Bligh Street,
SYDNEY.
IP. SHEOEDEE
LIVERY, BAIT, LET-OUT AND COMMIS-
SION STABLES.
Horses and Vehicles of every description for
Sale or Hire; also, good reliable Ladies or Gentle*
men’s Hacks.
WILLIAM —= CARGILL,
Photographic Stock Importer,
2 6 MARKET STREET, SYDNEY.
ZM
D
vl/
. \l/
e
o
L
&
N
Q
Offices
M J LDURA
Melbourne
Renmark
ADELA I DE
— V/croR/A.
Cbaffsy Irrigation Offices, Swanston Street.
South Australia,.
Cavendish Chambers, Grenfell Street'.
J. E. Mathew Vincent, (Chief Commissioner)
Cornwall Buildings, 35 Queen Victoria St
UQNDONB. C-
Troadit 6l C?
PRINCE OF WALES’ HOTEL,
St. HZlldLa, Victoria.
Within Five Minutes from STATION, and One Minute from ESPLANADE and BATHS.
MRS. KONG MENG ... ... ... / Proprietress.
LEA & PERRINS'
■ SAUCE.*
Purchasers should see that the Label on every bottle of the original
WORCESTERSHIRE SAUCE
bears the Signature, thus
Ask for Lea & Perrins* Sauce, and see Name on Wrapper, Label, Bottle and Stopper.
Wholesale and for Export hu the Proprietors, Worcester; Crosse $ Blackwell, London, sc., <sc.j
and by Grocers and Oilmen throughout the World .
CL.
The
—Everyone should Read—
BULIjETIM’S
“HISTORY of BOTANY BAY,"
By ARTHUR GAYLL.
Profusely Illustrated by‘‘The Bulletin’s” well-known Artists, L. Hopkins and Phil May.
Price - ONE SHILLING; per Post, Is. 3d.
May bo had from Agents, or direct from “The Bulletin” Office.
Agents Victorian: A. Benjamin, 321 Little Collins Street Eavst, Melbourne; Tasmanian: Fitzgerald Brothers, George Street,
Launceston; Queensland: J. H. Thompson, George Street, Brisbane.


Beale & Co.’s New Warehouse.
i'll
u
-
ipnilort
OUR NEW SHOW-ROOMS AND WAREHOUSES:
482 & 484 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Something New in Sewing Machines !
THE BEALE PATENT MACHINE.
What is there Special about it?
The restless march of invention has enabled us
to bring before the public improvements of im-
mense value, to some short account of which we
beg your attention for a few moments. Our call-
ing is to relieve the home-mother of all that may
weary her in sewing, and to make the same
throughout a pleasure. That we have during the
last ten years succeeded in so doing, scores of
thousands will testify. And to-day we are supply-
ing a machine whose range of work is absolutely
complete, transcending the hopes and dreams of
years. The construction and form are such as to
place it altogether above and beyond competition,
and for the truth of which assertions, as of the
following, we humbly request that your own eyes
may be the judges.
THE IMPROVED HIGH ARM. A great
desideratum with ladies has been the raising of the
arm of the machine, so as to allow the goods to be
sewn to pass freely underneath. This had to be
accomplished without increasing the weight of the
machine. In fact, the Beale runs with wonderful
ease and rapidity. It is almost silent, all clicking
sounds having been obviated. As is well-known,
a good test of the finish of any mechanism is its
silence when in rapid motion.
ALARGER RANGE OF APPLIANGES is
provided than with any other machine. Samples
of work performed upon these we are prepared at
all times to submit, whilst an elaborate Instruction
Book is supplied, which is alone sufficient to
explain their uses and their applicability to every
requirement
NICKEL-PLATING. —In our climate the
exposed parts of the machine, and the appliances,
need to be protected from rust. We have, at
considerable expense, added a handsomely nickeled
wheel, nickeled plates, screws, appliances, treadle-
bar and cones, heightening the appearance. These
improvements also tend largely to preserve the
parts. This nlating is imperishable
A MUCH LARGER DRAWER has taken the
place of the cramped and clumsy contrivance of
former years. When closed it securely fastens the
cover, and is provided with a look and key.
THE WOODWORK is handsomer than ever,
being always of selected and inlaid Walnut. All
of it has been exposed for weeks in the drying-
room of the Factory to a temperature reaching as
high as 170 degrees ; thus when kept out of damp
and sunshine, it will endure our most trying
climates.
A SELF-THREADING SHUTTLE of solid
steel, saving the trouble of threading by the end
of the cotton. It has an excellent tension, is
strong and simple.
THE BOBIN WINDER is a marvel of in-
genuity, winding and guiding the cotton by itself,
as evenly as upon the real whence it came, and
stopping of its own accord when the bobin is full.
The baby’s tiny clothing-, upon which mothers love to
display their choicest handiwork ; the boy’s tweed suit,
the drawing-room carpet, may all be stitched hy the won-
derful BEALE Machine. Examples of all kinds of sewing
required in dresses, millinery, underclothing, tailoring and
upholstery will be shown and explained at our offices free
of charge.
With the wonderful BEALE Machine, whether for hand
or foot use, you can hem any width, make double seams
0” (ells, braid, stitch with chenille, Berlin wool or gold
cord, and such like for fancy work; you may make a
pretty lace stitch, tuck ever so finely, bind dresses, coats,
or carpets; sew on trimmings without guiding, make
frilling, ruffling, or niching ; quilt, weave your own braid
with any combination cl colours, and stitch it on at the
same time ; make thick woollen door mats, embroidered
antimacassars, window curtains, and so forth: you can
easily and rapidly perform the fashionable shirring or
gathering so popularfor sleeves, bodies, or skirts of dresses
with an appliance supplied gratis ; lay the small cords in
hoods and stays; do large cording; gather with or without
a band, and generally do all kinds of straight sewing upon
any material whatever. You can darn upon any woven
goods, and do crewel work. You may make button and
eyelet holes, do overcasting, make herring-bone stitch
upon any materials. This work is absolutely unique, and
can only be accomplished upon the BEALE Patent
Machine.
Any of these performances will be show at our shops
at any time. The BEALE Patent makes a lock-stitch
which cannot ravel, yet by a momentary alteration the
sewing can be done so as to rip from end to end if desired.
This peculiarity is sometimes useful when children’s clothes
are intended to be altered
We have a special w T ord for husbands : When the day’s
business is over, and the evening meal is finished, the
wife—and perhaps the sister or daughter—sits down to her
sewing. With her hands alone she cannot, as aforesaid,
do anything like the whole of the work required. In a
corner of the room is perhaps an old-fashioned machine,
with which she may, by hard driving, occasionally stitch,
with a noise like a sausage-machine, a simple straight
seam ; but that is no great help. She ought to be able to
do ALL the work with it, short of stitching on buttons,
which is a trifle. And we have known some instances
where the lady of the house is anxious to obtain a first-
class machine, that which will be the greatest of all helps
to her, but the husband demurs on the score of expense.
Why, it is the only article of the household furnishing
which will ever return you any part of the cost! If the
lady will use it, it MUST earn far more than the half-a-
crown a week necessary to purchase it. On one little
garment she will save that sum, so that in addition to in-
creased comfort your household expenses will not be en-
larged, but ought to be diminished, by the possession of a
BEALE PATENT MACHINE. How' often do we waste
money upon really useless knick-knacks, or upon need-
lessly expensive articles and indulgences? The Machine
should far more than pay for itself during the time you
are clearing it off, and it will then become your own, earn-
ing or saving money as before. Is it not fairly to be
called a PROFITABLE INVESTMENT?
Cash or Easy Terms. Price Lists and Samples
Free by Post.
Beale & Company,
482 &. 484 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
Or from our Branches and Travellers everywhere.
WILLIAM
FLEMING.
MERCHANT and IMPORTER,
22 & 24 Clarence Street
' (Corner Margaret St.),
SYDNEY.
2, St. James' Buildings
(WILLIAM STREET),
MELBOURNE.
LIGHT, RIGID,
EASY HIDING,
DURABLE.
ţ
Hig-h-Class Busies, Phaetons,
Wag'g'ons and Harness.
%i
EAST RUNNING,
STRONG,
AND STAND MOREST
WEAR AND TEAR
THAN ANY
WAGGON MADE.
ť
ŧ
n
Am.
C
c
£
■""mini
•■iiiiiiin
liiiiiinii
As
4.
5
or
CO
<
CD
WHIM
v>*
Uj
X
o>
<<y
J
V
<o
iiiiiiiiiin
3
V
68
CLARENCE
SYDNEY.
AGENTS
in New South Wales.
TRIUMPH
OfThE OVER Bad.
WHAT!
LARMER’S
CELEBRATED
TONIC
CURES
Nervous Debility,
Sick Headache
Bilious Complaints
Fever and Ague
Sleeplessness,
Liver and Blood-
THE TONIC OF THE AGE!
This being one of the best Restoratives yet
offered to the Public in the form of a Tonic.
Warranted to Build up the Constitution,
at the same time acts as a Strengthening
Restorative in all cases.
BOTTLES at 2s. 6d. and ss.
Pest, Is Bxtre.
Prepared only by—
CAINS & CO., Chemists,
78 KING ST., SYDNEY.
For Sale by all (lieiiristN.
M. W. * Co.
HUNGARIAN
NATURAL APERIENT WATES.
for ConsdpaUoo, LMUgesUm
>jwv$
4KB
4U.
Stoiaacli & Uver Complaints
OF ALL CHEMISTS IN AUSTRALASIA
The Natural Mineral Waters of
(STATS
MS
SPRINGS.)
GRANDE GRILLE.—For Affections of the
Liver, Biliary Organs, &o.
CELLS ! (NS, —For the Kidneys, Gravel, Goat
Rheumatism, Diabetes, &o.
HOPITAL.— For Stomach Complaints.
HAUTE RIVE.— An excellent Table Watu
CF ALL CHEMISTS IN AUSTRALASIA,
Business Announcements/
MASON BROTHERS,
m
Hi
few®
LIMITED.
263 to 269 KENT STREET,
SYDNEY,
Have always in Stock for Sale to th#
r lrade and Wholesale Buyers Only,
Ironmongery, jiiml
GENERAL HARDWARE
Cliiss, China and
EARTHENWARE.
WINES, BEERS & SPIRITS,
AND J3ENBRAL
BULK MERCHANDISE.
Agents for j ,
JOHN WAL K E R,’ and SONS
Old Highland Whisky.
J. SORIN and CO.’S
Cognac.
J. T. GAYEN’S,
Schnapps and- Geneva.
A. MELVIN and SON S’
Edinburgh Pale Ale.
HEKTRY ISZI3XTO-,
PHOTO-SCENIC ARTIST,
316 G-EOECfE STREET, SYDNEY.
Is constantly adding fresh subjects to his Im-
mense Stock of Australian and New Zealand
Views comprising every variety of subject taken
from Nature unadorned and Art glorified.
Marine Views and Landscapes,
Mountains and Caves,
Crack Yachts and Cathedrals,
Old Identities and Young Australians,
Everyday Sights and Stirring Incidents,
Stereo, and Lantern Slides,
High-class Portraiture.
Catalogues on Application.
316 George St, between Hunter and King Sts.
Medical.
DR. SPEER’S
AMERICAN DISPENSARY
3 1 Y oris: Street.
P.O. Box 920. ;
Dr. Speer is a regular Graduated Physician, educated at
Harvard College, U.S. (for confirmation see New Zealand
Gazette, January 21st, 1886; also New South Wales
Gazette, April 17th, 1888). The doctor has devoted 14
years to the study of CHRONIC, NERVOUS, AND
SPECIAL DISEASES. Four of these were in the leading
hospitals of the United States, which enables him to treat
all complaints with excellent results. All applying to
him will receive his honest opinion of their complaints.
No experimeirting ;no Mercury used. He will guarantee
a positive cure in every case he undertakes, or forfeit
£2OO. His reason for doing so is this—when there is no
organic disease, and nothing but an inorganic trouble, or,
in other words, a conglomeration of symptoms producing
a certain result, there is no reason why it cannot be re-
moved with the proper remedies, therefore he guarantees.
He wishes it distinctly understood that he does not claim
to perform impossibilities, or to have miraculous power
he claims only to be a skilled and successful physician
thoroughly informed in his speciality—CHßONlC and
SPECIAL DISEASES of MEN and WOMEN.- People
residing at a distance can, by explaining their troubles in
detail be treated at home. The course of treatment will
not in any way interfere with their business. Examina-
tion and advice free to all. Charges moderate. H. J.
Speer, M D., 31 York-street, Sydney. Post Office Box
No. 920. Office hours, 10 a.m. 012 a.m. 2to 4 and 7
to 8 p.m. Sundays from 10 to .11 a.m. only.
TO YOXJKTG 3VE DEI 3NT.
mT ,„, m DR. FLETCHER’S
TREATISE ON NERVOUS DISEASES, THEIR CAUSE,
SYMPTOMS, TREATMENT, AND CURE.
directions contained in this little treatise will be
found of immense benefit to the sufferer ; and if these
directions are observed during the early stages of Nervous
or Sexual Debility, No Medicines will he required , as, by
observing the directions given, the patient can Cure Him-
self.
This admirable little treatise is specially written to
show a method of counteracting the evil effects of indis-
cretions in early life—overwork, irregularity in eating or
drinking, &c. It is the result of much study and long
and successful experience in the treatment of diseases,
and contains a fund of useful information to every suf-
ferer from the following complaints, viz.:—Nervous
Debility, Dizziness, Specks before the Eyes, Pains in the
Back, Defective Memory, Loss of Will Power, Loss of
Energy, Spermatorrhoea, Bashfulness, Discontentedness,
C onstipation, Liver and Kidney Derangements, Atrophy,
Impotence, Impure Blood, Foul Taste in Mouth, Palpita-
tion of Heart, Wakefulness, Despondency, Excessive Ner-
vousness, Inability to Marry, Premature Decay, and other
symptoms experienced by nervous sufferers.
All Should Send for this Little Treatise.
If the complaint is of long standing and requires
medicine, Dr. Fletcher will GUARANTEE TO CURE
ANY CASE OF NERVOUS or SEXUAL DEBILITY
with ONE COURSE OF MEDICINES LASTING FIVE
WEEKS, and will send with medicines A WRITTEN
GUARANTEE to cure same or return the monies paid.
Dr. Fletcher’s treatment is both simple and effective,
and within the reach of the poorest. It is unlike any
other, and with it he has cured over 25,000 patients, and
invites patients to investigate his statements by verifying
the testimonials published in his treatise. The treatise
will be forwarded on receipt of two stamps to cover
postage.
CONSULTATION BY LETTER, FREE
Address in first instance—
DR. H. EWART FLETCHER,
Box 1417, G.P.O.
_ . . ~ Sydney, N.S.W.
Private address—Clonmel House, Waverley, Sydney.
Remember, all cases undertaken, guaranteed, and j
signed agreement given, which provides that NO COLT
be incurred by the patient if a cure is not effected.
VARICOCELE RADICALLY CURED WITHOUT
OPERATION.
Mention this Paper.
IN THE PRESS,
“-A. G-OZGXXEIKr SHANTY/’
Bv “BULLETIN" WRITERS.


•Will toe Putolistoed. Shortly,
“ A GOLDEN SHANTY:
Australian Tales and Sketches in Prose and Verse
By ‘Bulletin’ -Writers.”
A Selection from the brightest of the original literary matter which has made The Bulletin world-famous.
Price Is. : if posted, 3d. extra.
Public Companies.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA.
THE COMING COLONY!
Everyone should Invest a Few Pounds in Land
in
PERTH,
TUB CAPITAL CITY OF WESTERN AUSTRALIA.
Compared with other Australian Cities the Price
is Very Low.
The Coal, Gold and Tin Mines are attracting
much enterprise and capital to the Colony.
CITY BUILDING ALLOTMENTS,
From £1 per Foot.
BUILDING SITES adjoining the CITY
From £lO Each.
Small Deposit. Easy Terms. Discount for Cash.
Each Lot guaranteed good Building Land.
Land in Pekth will increase greatly in value during
the next few years.
inquiry costs nothing.
Pamphlets, Marked Plans, and full information
posted to any address on application to
Tbs Intercolonial Investment Co., Mel
96 Bathurst Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
W. J. DOUGLAS, Manager.
=CLYDE=
SMELTING, cm and CHLOMTiON
WORKS,
CLYDE, near GRANVILLE,
New South Wales.
Lead. and. Silver Ores,
ALSO,
G-old Concentrates,
Purchased in any quantity.
Miners and others are invited to send Small or
Large Parcels of Ore to the above Works, which,
on being assayed, Cash Returns will be at once
remitted.
Tariff of Charges forwarded on application to
the Secretary at the Works, Clyde.
The British and New South Wales Investment
and Financial t 0.. Limited.
Incorporated under the Companies’ Act, 1874;
Capital, £250,000.
Sydney Office; 246 PITT STREET.
13 ILLS DISCOUNTED and Immediate Advances granted
JJ piailv. Country communications promptly attended
to. The following Kates of Interest are allowed for Fixed
Deposits: —
3 Years .... 1° P er cen t-
-12 Months .!.. 9 P er cent -
-6 Months 8 per cent.
3 Months 7 per cent.
With a Guaranteed Bonus on Renewals of Twelve Months
and over.
By order of the Board.
J W. M'BONALD, Manager
J]}DWIN G. GOEETZ,
Stock and Share Broker,
-A-OSISTT,
BRISBANE.
Member of the Brisbane Stock Exchange.
SMOKE NOTHING BUT
PIPES.
»
»
©
PIPES.
THE BEST IN THE WORLD.
Wholesale Agents :
JULIUS GOLDSCHMIDT & CO.,
231 Clarence Street.
First Prize -MELBOURNE EXHIBITION.
Business Announcements,
ANDREW KING & CO.,
Wholesale Soft Goods Importers and Warehousemen*
FLINDERS STREET, MELBOURNE,
Opposite Hobson’s Bay Railway Station.
rrHIS old-established house was opened to the Public last Monday as the ‘ MOD
* FAMILY WAREHOUSE,” when the rooms were rushed and the doors had to be
closed.
The Press and the Public have pronounced the Opening Day the Greatest Success
ever achieved in Victoria.
The Goods required no pushing, so Customers were not annoyed by salesmen.
Plain Figures and Good Value at once convinced Purchasers of to
be gained by buying from a Wholesale House ; and now ANDREW KING T . e
position of
Premier Drapers in Victoria.
Parcels delivered at Railway Station on opposite side of street, so youi ca _
your shopping in shorter time and with more satisfaction by calling at the MUiiit
FAMILY WAREHOUSE” as you come into town than by going elsewhere.
Note.— The present Stock is being Sold very much under Wholesale Cost, and
Householders should not neglect this rare opportunity of replenishing their stocks.
Lengths and Quantities to suit all. No Second Prices.
Terms Strictly _____ Cash.
Country Orders promptly attended to, and Squatters' Parcels made and sent hy return.
Note Address :
t£ The Modern Family Warehouse,
OPPOSITE HOBSON’S BAY STATION.
5
i
il
gSKB
HOTEL METROPOLE,
Bent
Phillip & Young Streets, Sydney.
—THE—
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL
FIRE
Insurance Society.
Established ... 1872.
Bonuses
OF
20 per cent. Paid Annually
since 1873.
Head Office
—THE
Oldest Mutual Fire Office
in Australia.
Claims promptly and liberally
settled. Fifteen days’ grace
allowed for Renewal of Policies.
Lowest Current Rates charged.
Hon. George Thornton, M.L.C.,
Chairman.
Head Office:
Corner Pitt Sc King Streets,
SYDNEY.
Walter Church ... Manager.
Medical.
PULVERMACHER'S WORLD-
FAMED GALVANIC BELTS
FOR THE CURE OF
Nervous Exhaustion and Debility, Sciatica,
Lumbago, Rheumatism, &c„
HAVE received Testimonials from Three
Physicians to Her Majesty the Queen and
the Leading Physicians of many London Hospi-
tals, including over Forty Members of the Royal
College of Physicians of London.
For full Price-list and particulars, see new pam-
phlet “Galvanism: Nature’s Chief Restorer of
Impaired Vital Energy.” Pamphlets Free.
Sole Agents for N.S.W.,
FROST «5c SHIPHAM
ELECTRICIANS,
474 & 587 George Street, Sydney.
Sole Agents for Victoria:
ALLISON BROS., 477 Collins-strebt West, Melbourne.
T|R. SMITH, XJ.S.A..,
MEDICAL EXPERT
In PRIVATE COMPLAINTS of BOTH SEXES.
A Prompt and Safe Cure Guaranteed.
CONSULTING ROOMS:
Nos. 7 Sc 8 First Floor, iB2 GEORGE STREET,
SYDNEY.
Hours :
From 11 a.m. till 4 p.m.
Business Announcements.
—AUSTRALIAN—
Boiler glour and ||rain gtoreA,
GRANVILLE, N.S.W.
Sydney Office ; - 173 CLARENCE STREET
(near King Street).
Brunton’s Patent Roller Flour
—AWARDED —
The Highest Order of Merit at every Competition,
AND
“Special Recommendation” of the Jurors of the
Melbourne International Centennial Exhibition,
1888-89.
■r
JMSR|LLAS
ftE<OV£R£G.
OTUDY ECONOMY
and
Have your Umbrella Frames
Re-Covered, and your
Parasols Re-Lined and made
Equal to New, at
J. SULLIVAN’S,
541 George Street,
Brickfield Hill, Sydney,
between
l.iverpool d Bathurst Sts ,
Parasols made to match Cos-
tumes. Repairs neatly done.
PAPER-HANGINGS
oiis.t6ioi>Rs* Paints
WALLPAPERSI^om'&roII
p/K\
529 George si/b^hurstSt
—— Br/ckf/eld HilL.
Thomas H.oss,
TOBACCO &. CIGAR IMPORTER,
27 HUNTER STREET. SYDNEY,
(Curlier of Pitt Street.)
A large stock of Genuine Uavanuali Cigars, of the
choicest Brands to select from.
Sole Importer of the Celebrated “ I ! or tie tSouito
Brand of Cigars and •* Empire Cigarettes.”
Sydney Canister Works,
COLLINS STREET, SURRY HILLS,
OKI' CROWN STKKKT.
Manufacturers of all k nds l {Tins for Confectioners*
Tea Merchants, Biscuit Makers, &c., also all kinds
of Tins, round and square, for Pepper, Spice and
Baking Powder, made by improved maoh nery.
A. Trial Solicited.
CITY
Investment, Land axid. Builtiing
Company, Limited.
Authorised Capital, £lOO,OOO ... Reserves and Uncalled Capital, £37,000.
Uatks for Dki-osits: 11 months, 7 per cent.; <> months, (U per cent.; at call, 5 per cent.
Bonus to 12 months’ Depositors.
Directois: J. Garrard, M.l’., Hon. J. 11. Vouno, M.l’., .1. I’. Walker, J.P., John C. llasulton.
J. D. W'ard, Manager, 327 Pitt-street, Sydney.
t
?27
PITT STB'E'RT,
f=? "X" 3D T?T !S "V


The Bulletin
Vol. 11 —No. 524.
SATURDAY, MARCH 1, 1890.
Price, 6d.
ť
“OFF WITH THE OLD LOVE, ON WITH THE NEW.”
MISS FEDERATION ( PARKES NEW FLAME) : “BUT HOW ABOUT YOUR OLD FLAME, MISS FREETRADE? HAVE YOU THROWN HER OVER ALTOGETHER
FOR ME?”
PARKES: “LISTEN (quoting from one of his own poems) :-
‘I would not give my Ragged Jane
For all the peacock ladies going.'"


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
“ Australia for the Australians.
Proprietors : BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO.,
Limited.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 21 Pitt-street, Sydney, New South W ales.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(payable in advance, only).
Per Annum £lO 0
Half-yearly 0 12 6
Quarterly
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to he addressed to William Macleod, Managing Director.
Literary Communications to be addressed to J. F.
Archibald.
The Editor will carefully read and acknoioledge in tne
“ Correspondence ” column all contributions submitted
whether in the form of Political, Social, or other Articles,
Verse, Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing tvith Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in
length, or say 3000 words, are specially acceptable),
Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper-Clippings. All
communications ivill be regarded as strictly confidential.
« The Bulletin” will return all unavailable MSS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we
desire those sending MSS. to distinctly understand that
ice are not responsible for the preservation or transmission
of such MSS.
NOTICE.
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty Shillings
sterling— which you may pay by Post Office Order, One
Pound Note, or Stamps of any Australian colony—you
can have The Bulletin posted regularly to you every week
for a year.
This offer is not open to residents of Sydney. In that
city The Bulletin is not delivered by mail, but is entirely
in the hands of our earners, with whom ice do not wish
to interfere.
SATURDAY, MARCH 1, 1890.
The Writing on the Wall.
Portents accumulate in Europe. The scene
is Russia : In the triply-guarded palace cita-
del of the Czar the lights die out in ghastly
silence. The desperate ruler of eighty
millions of people cowers in the darkness.
Ghosts of a hundred thousand murdered
victims throng around him, and he scarce
fears them. To: rur more awful distracts his
senses. He listens, nerve-racked, for steps
in the gloom—the footsteps of his execu-
tioners. They come ; A door opens. The
miserable son of a slaughtered sire can bear
no more. He crashes to the ground foaming
In epileptical convulsions. Extremity of
horror has turned his brain. Thus, writhing,
distraught, with bitter tongue, and staring
eyeballs, his chamberlain and courtiers find
him—a spectacle for gods and men, an abso-
lute monarch converted by a paroxysm of
fear into a gibbering commissionary.
# * #
The scene is Portugal: A young king, newly
crowned, sits in his palace. Without are
crowds who shout to him wrathfully, scorn-
fully, to be a king indeed—and he dares not.
He looks to the ocean and trembles. The
fleets of the insulting foe lie that way. He
looks to the land—and trembles. There his
subjects assemble. On one side war, on the
other insurrection, threatens. The monarch
with sword by his side, stung by the tradi-
tions of his rank, the pride of his manhood,
and the glories of his race and country—
trembles and seizes—the pen. The King writes
to the insulting foe and humbly implores him,
as he loves the institution of royalty, to be
merciful to him, to abate the insolence of
his attitude, offers to accept every humiliation
in fact if he will but be spared in appearance.
Urge your claims thus proudly, he writes to
the servant of the Queen of England, and
my crown will be snatched from my head.
Press me, and you will be confronted by a
Republic. Let me remain King and I will be
your slave.
* * *
The scene is Spain. A crowned infant
writhes in its cot. But that, just as a Queen
of Spain has no legs, a King of Spain has no
bowels, it might be asserted that liis Majesty
had colic. The very intestines of Spain are
agitated in sympathy with those of the puny
child. Gorgeous grandees, grave statesmen,
cunning politicians, scurry about in excited
turmoil. Pretenders haunt the frontiers,
and weave webs of intrigue whose fila-
ments reach to the palace and the barracks.
The barracks ! there lurk feverish agitation
and suspicion. The army is not to be depended
on. In the cities excitement. The populace
is not to be depended on. In the Cabinet
distraction. Ministers are not to be depended,
on. Throughout the State murmurs and
unrest. The people are not to be depended
on.
In Austria, a broken-hearted old man of
mediocre abilities bewails that a self-killed
heir, who could not reign over himself, has
not lived to reign over a people who are only
policed into submission to any crowned ruler.
In Turkey, a feeble Commander of the
Faithful shivers as he passes the dungeon of
a brother who found the faithful faithless,
and as his eye falls upon the pavilion where
his father but yesterday lay on silken pillows
steeped in blood—a monarch who died with
his scissors in hand and his face to his
foeinen—the eunuchs ! In t ulgaria, a prince-
ling, barely escaping assassination, tremu-
-1 usly declares his anxiety to abandon his
post rather than endure such perils more.
The writing is on all palace walls. On some,
as yet, in faint and flickering letters. In
others, as in (he hall of Belshazzar, in
figures of glowing tire. It needs no Daniel
to interpret. The message is old as history.
Its purport has never changed. It runs
simply thus : “Because thou wilt not let
MY PEOPLE GO ! ”
# * *
In all Europe one Sovereign alone, seems
to have a faint glimmering of the supreme
urgency of the message. William of Ger-
many appears to have perceived that exist-
ing conditions cannot be indefinitely main-
tained. There is no indication, indeed, that
his heart feels for the people. All the
symptoms point the opposite way. He is
sagaciously concerned* for himself and the
principle he represents —the monarchical. It
has dawned upon him that the burdens laid
upon the vulgar are greater than they will
longer consent to bear. He has perceived
that if these oppressions be not moderated,
there will be a cataclysm, and that monarchs,
as the most obvious personifications of the
plundering class, will be the first to be as-
sailed. Consequently he proposes to interpose
a device sufficiently ingenious. He will assume
the role of .a saviour. He will save himself,
and perhaps the Aristocratic Order, by
sacrificing the modern class of capitalists,
whose increasing exactions drive the masses
to desperation, and whose growing wealth
invades the social exclusiveness of the old
nobility. “ The foot of the peasant galls
the kibe of the courtier” to-day in a more
aggravating sense than of yore. It is the
foot of the enriched plebeian which insults
the kibe of the ancient peer. i he modern
capitalist has no friend. The labourer and
the middle-class man alike regard him with
dislike and envy. The aristocrat resents his
intrusions. The capitalist strives to make
common cause with the monarch and the
noble, and to preserve “ law and order.”
But it is a species of law and order of quite
recent organisation. It involves the imposi-
tion upon the people in general of spoliation
more intense than ever before. The people
groan under the accumulated exactions
which the growth of mercantile and manu-
facturing capitalists expose them to. They
have been plundered for generations by a
regal and lordly caste. They are still so
plundered. But, in addition, they are now
compelled to support the splendours of a
multitude of individuals of their own order,
who grind them down to a destitution more
severe than they have ever before ex-
perienced. The new Kaiser of Germany
appears to have resolved to sacrifice
the capitalist class in order to se-
cure immunity for himself and the
nobles. His calculation seems to be
that if he can slacken the grip of capital
upon the throat of labour, the people will
be content to the lessened constric-
tion of a monarchical grasp. When, but
lately, he threatened the Westphalian
strikers with'* the terrors of military execu-
tion, lie was careful also to warn capital that
it must moderate its methods. And to-day
he takes a distinct attitude of partizanship.
He invites the Governments of Europe to
join with him in concerting methods of
regulating the relations between the capi-
talist and the worker. The conception is
not devoid of merit. But the device will, we
conceive, be ineffectual. The situation is as
though the Kaiser, foreseeing that the cur-
rent of events will, if not somehow eluded,
force him to “shoot Niagara,” undertakes to
divert the stream.
* * *
It is worthy of notice that the project of
the German Kaiser runs on all fours with
the scheme of Lord Randolph Churchhill.
The latter has projected for Great Britain a
system of Tory-Democracy, the essential
feature of which is that the lower ranks
shall be emancipated from the thraldom im-
posed by the wealthy bourgeoisie, by “their
natural leaders,” the nobility. This coin-
cidence is more than mere chance. It points
to identical results from a similar line of re-
flection induced by the pressure of a condition
of affairs equally urgent in two widely sepa-
rated communities. The imperial possum
of Germany and the noble ’possum of Great
Britain are both more cunning than the
’possum of the American story. Perceiving
that they are fairly covered they do not offer
to come down. They invite the man with
the rifle to fire at a racoon in their stead.
The Kaiser offers, as a substitute for a social
revolution which will extinguish monarchy,
a monarchical socialism which will only ex-
tinguish capitalism. His compromise pro-
bably comes too late. The peoples of Europe
have learned too thoroughly the tftith of the
warning of the wisest of monarchs —that
they must not put their trust in princes. The
proletariat of Germany, in particular, have
had too recent reminders of the veracity of
that warning. It is not likely that the sons
have forgotten the experience of the fathers.
They cannot have forgotten how Frederic
William in 1848, while from the palace
balcony he was assuring the people that their
demands for a liberal constitution should
be complied with, was looking over their
heads at the battalions of infantry and
squadrons of cavalry who were approaching
to drive them with bullet and sabre from his
p esence. They will not have forgotten the
eighteen hours of butchery that followed.
They will not have forgotten hoAvthe follow-
ing day, the sovereign, seeing the people
still resolute and in arms, withdrew the
troops and issued a proclamation declaring
his intention to lead the movement for the
regeneration of Germany, nor how r , before the
close of the year, the troops were again em-
ployed, the . people disarmed, and reaction
triumphant. The German people will
scarcely give implicit credit to the grand-
nephew when he repeats in a different form
the promises which the grand-uncle gave and
deliberately violated.
* # *
Repression and concession do not go har-
moniously on either hand. A movement to
alleviate the wrongs of the working class comes
not gracefully in company with a dissolution
of the Reichstag for the crime of refusing
to prolong and intensify the severe law's
against Socialism, the workers’ gospel of
reform. It is little likely that in this very
hour which ushers in the strongest tokens of
their approaching triumph, the people of
Germany will consent to the cajolery of a
half-measure. When, despite the most
stringent repressive law's and regulations of
abnormal severity, the Socialists have been
enabled to frustrate the designs of the Court
to extinguish their parliamentary represen-
tation, it seems absurdly improbable that
they vvill be coaxed to attach any importance
to a conference promoted by the very
monarch who has endeavoured to destroy
them. They may recognise that the young
Kaiser really desires to alleviate their con-
dition and to readjust the relations between
Capital and Labour on a basis which will
satisfy his own conception of fitness. But
they will scarcely agree that the conception
of a youth known to hold very lofty views as
to the attributes and privileges of caste, with
respect to the relations of man to man, will
coincide with the radical ideals of the people
themselves. The Kaiser does hut cry
“Peace” when there is no peace. His
device cannot but fail. When he shall have
realised his mistake, he will doubtless fall
back upon the old-fashioned methods and
try the effect of a national phlebotomy.
The orthodox prescription of the advisers of
inonarchs when the State suffers from a
determination of Liberty to the extremities
has always been a copious blood-letting. The
outcome of William’s Labour Conference
may very probably be an outbreak of war in
the Spring subsequent to the meeting.
“ The ‘Nigger’ Wave!”
An item of mail news anent the lynching of eight
negroes at Barnwell, South Carolina, revives in a
specially tragic manner a subject touched on from
time to time in these columns—namely, the racial
war which is impending between the whites and
the blacks in the United States. The question
has considerable fascination for Australians, who
are threatened with inundation by inferior races
on their own soil, as the mode of introduction is
strikingly similar. The negro was brought to
America to augment the profits of capital, and
those Australians who favour the importation of
coloured labour are actuated purely by the desire
to secure workers at a cost less than that of
even labour-saving machinery. The results of the
system in America are most minacious, and it is
deeply to be regretted that the white population
of the States—instead of boldly and resolutely
grappling with the problem and seeking to secure
their own safety, while at the same time meting out
even-handed justice to the negro—should allow
panic to control their actions, and that they should
express their appreciation of the insolvability of
the racial problem by visiting on the head of the
unfortunate colored man social disabilities, whole-
sale slaughter, and the most degrading treatment
generally. # # #
Negro-Iynchings are common enough in America,
and the one deferred to beneath is not of a particu-
larly outrageous character, hence it may well be
quoted as a sample of the kind of justice usually
served out by the dominant race in the States to
the man who is unfortunate enough to be born
with a little different Colouring-matter between
the epidermis and the cuticle :
Eight negro prisoners, who were awaiting trial for com-
plicity in two murders; were lynched at Barnwell, South
Carolina. Before daybreak a large force of masked men
surrounded the gaol, got the gaoler to open the gate on
the pretence that they had a prisoner to give him, and
then seized and overpowered the gaoler. Fifty men
entered the prison, took out the eight negroes, led them
to the outskirts of the village, and bound them to trees
Two hundred men formed in line and poured volley after-
volley into the negroes from rifles, killing all of them.
The lynching party then dispersed. When the morning
came,* the dead bodies were discovered riddled with balls.
Several of the leading inhabitants of Barnwell subse-
qucntly signed a statement apologising for and explaining
the lynching. This statement being unsatisfactory, in-
dignation is generally expressed throughout the country.
The Charlestown News demands the arrest and punish-
ment of the lynchers. The Augusta (Georgia) Chronicle
declares lynching to be a disgrace to civilisation.
The virtuous indignation of the newspapers is
somewhat malapropos in the light of recent agita-
tion by some of the leading journals of America
against the negro race, the tenor of their articles
being, “Get rid of the black ! no matter how, but
get rid of him.” The refusal of three U.S. Navy
captains to carry Frederick Douglass, the mul-
atto orator, to San Domingo, to which state he had
been appointed consul, and their subsequent resig-
nation, emphasises in a peculiar manner the
feeling entertained in America against even the
brightest and most talented men in whose veins
flows African blood. Only very recently we read
that Peter Jackson, the colored pugilist, in-
tending to wed a white woman in ’Frisco was dis-
qualified on account of his colour; the marriage
being impossible within the limits of American
territory. In fact, any girl who mates on the soil
of the United States with a man having the least
strain of the accursed blood, commits an offence
against the law, and renders herself liable to
incarceration in the penitentiary. Negroes ar°
not allowed to wed with whites, to ride in the car ß
with them; or to associate with them in any
possible way. They are persecuted, pursued, and
lynched, as outcasts and pariahs ; and their posi-
tion is nearly as intolerable in a country ruled in
the name of the gentle Nazarene and that boasted
American Constitution which declares all men to
be free and equal as that of the Israelites
beneath the iron rod of Ph.auoah Ka.meses-
Miamun.
# * *
The negro spurned, scorned; daily, hourly
humiliated ; crushed down beneath the weight of
Aryan injustice ; made to feel, and that keenly,
that even the God of the white man is against
him, turns in anguish and despair to Obi ; and in
the dark fastnesses of the cane-brake swamps, be-
neath the light of a spectral moon, attempts to
propitiate the deity of evil —if aught more evil can
be than the faith A those beneath whose inhuman
lash he writhes, in the name of whose inhuman
Moloch of justice—or injustice—fitted to the needs
of his outcast race, he is ever and anon lynched to
death without a trial. Down in the fever-smitten
morasses of Georgia, Louisana, and Carolina, he
worships his god of darkness, and hopes by incest,
rape, and nameless abomination, to win the aid of
the Paynim Dagon whose rites bear close resem-
blance to those of the tutelary deity of ancient
Carthage and his Phoenician worshipers. Some-
times children are sacrificed, maidens treated after
the mode of the Levite’s wife by the wine-filled
sons of Belial, and unspeakable atrocities are
perpetrated in the midnight swamps, in fearful
immunity from all law, beyond the reach of the
white man’s punishment. Thus another horror is
added to the sojourn of the negro in the States, but
it is a horror brought about, fed and fattened to
its present dreadful proportions, by American
greed, American persecution and American in-
justice.
# * *
The American negro is, moreover, becoming very
firmly established in the Southern States of the
Union. He is strong enough in some of the
Southern States to “ run ” the elections, and the
panic at his racial vigour has taken the form of a
proposition to deprive him of the franchise. Five
years ago the New York Sun gave as authentic
the following statement concerning the progress
of the unspeakable “nigger”
Twenty years ago, at the close of the war, there were
in the Southern States 3,947,000 coloured people, and now
there are more than 7,000,000. There were in Mississippi
220,000 negroes ; now 650,000. There were in South
Carolina 400,090 ; now more than 600,000. Five hundred
coloured babies are born in the United States every day.
The coloured population of the United States doubles
every 20 years ; the white population only once in 35
years. Eight years will not have passed before the
negroes will be in numerical majority in some of the
Southern States. At the present rate of increase, in 1985
there will he 96,000,000 white people in the United States,
and 192,000,000 coloured people. The day is not far dis-
tant when it will he a physical impossibility to continue
the present practical disfranchisement of the coloured
man in the Southern States. In South Carolina he has
bought and paid for 270,000 acres of land which he culti-
vates. In the South he pays taxes on 91,000,000 dollars’
worth of property. He is editing, printing and publish-
ing 106 newspapers, and yet of the 7,000,000 coloured
people of this country more than 6,000,000 cannot read or
write.
The foregoing was published in 1885, and The
Bulletin was challenged by American residents
in Australia for venturing to express an affirma-
tive opinion in regard to the New Yoke Sun’s
prophecy. Not “ eight,” but “ five ” years only,
have elapsed since its publication, and already the
negroes are in “ numerical majority in some of the
Southern States.” Taking the Sun’s figures as a
basis, there must now be in America no fewer than
8,750,000 negroes ; although in default of a census
the numbers are roughly given as 10,000,000,
which is very likely a considerable over-state-
ment—in other words, since the emancipation, the
pure African race has multiplied at the rate of a
cent, and a third per cent, within a quarter of a
century. No wonder Yankeedom is alarmed !
The negro is a terrible antagonist. His breeding
power is extraordinary ; and, unlike the South
Sea islander, he can wear store-clothes without
contracting phthisis. His sons occasionally take
honours at West Point, and overtop the scions of
noble houses of his whilom oppressor. He writes,
he edits, he practises medicine, he preaches, he
swindles, and he votes—just like his white neigh-
bour, and if trouble came he could probably shoot
also; he once showed fighting quality enough
when a rifle was put into his hands to be used
against his old masters. In San Domingo he
fought like a hero, and in Toussaint L’Ouveb-
tdrk produced a military genius, just as in
Frederick Douglass he brought forth an orator,
eloquent and literary. It must be borne in mind
that the Zulus, who so bravely faced the British
troops, and often defeated them in the late war at
the Cape, were negroes. With all this virility
surging up from the South, no wonder the Ameri-
can became obsessed by a panic, and began to
strike out wildly, foolishly, unjustly. This
jostler, who now rubbed inconvenient shoulders
with him, had learnt too much from communion
with the pale-face to be welcomed with any
specially jubilant acclaim. Already the Yankee
saw all his favourite avocations annexed by the
man whose blood was tinctured somewhat differ-
ently from his own; whose skin was black or
brown, or at least yellow ; whose hair was woolly
or crisp ; who could not laugh Saxonwise, but
only cachinnate dolefully like a catarrh ous
chicken ; who, if he escaped all other outward
signs of a negro origin, had the moons upon his
nails saffron-tinted somewhat, which put their
owner just outside the marriage-pale, as far as the
free-born, red-blooded Yankee girl was concerned.
The ire of Silas Scuddeh was up. Already could
he hear, like a penumbrous monitor of the future,
the nasal twang of his native land polluted by the
clumsy lips of the cursed blackamoor. The hideous
possibility of a negro book-canvasser, stumping
from Dan unto Beersheba and annexing the
bread of Yankee enterprise ; nay, of a far-distant
but very possible Are Lincoln, President of the
United States, carven in ebony—but we drop
the veil upon the awful picture, and turn to
another side of the great negro question.
# * #
America is the hot-bed of free competition,
which is, of course, all working in the direction of
a social upheaval by concentrating the wealth of
the country in the hands of some two hundred ana
fifty thousand persons, or one in sixty of its adult
male population. Within thirty years, at the pre-
sent rate of concentration, the United States win
be practically owned by fifty thousand persons, or
less than one in five hundred of the adult mala
population. According to Shearman, the Ameri-
can economist, seventy persons own property m
the States to the extent of 540,000,000 of English
money or 2,700,000,000 dols. Now all this points
to the rapid ultimate concentration of all th o
wealth of America in the hands of a single syndi-
cate. The American people have confronting them)
therefore, a much more terrible problem than the
extermination of a brother thrall—for the negro is
that, and nothing more-and in the meanwhile hi®
energy is dissipated and diverted into a socm l
channel, and the grand reform for which he


should be making is lost s'ght of in a sentimental
fury on colour questions. Alarmed at the rapid
increase of the negro, some American journals, in
a reactionary spirit, bewail the war and its con-
comitant abolition movement, and sigh for the
slave days and the power they conferred of keep-
ing under the now irrepressible black. They for-
get one thing : the American Civil War was not a
war of sentiment, it was not fought solely to set the
negro free ;it was a war for life; it was truly and
genuinely a Labour war. It was a fight for exist-
ence as a democratic nation against capitalistic
anarchy and separatist greed. It was the battle
of the white “ trash ” against Southern blue-blood;
it was the people against the aristocrat, and the
workman was compelled to fight or go to the wall.
To have allowed the extension of slave States
north of Mason and Dixie’s line meant the sur-
rendering of the welfare of a people to the greed
of Capital—white labour was being everywhere
displaced by coloured. The declaration of “con-
traband ” was a supreme stroke of policy on the
part of the North and did more to break up the
power of the planters than anything not actually
connected with the movements of the Federal
troops. Besides, the North had to emancipate
the slaves, in order to preserve the Union against
the encroachments of slave States, and the North
did it solely from politic motives, maugre the fact
that there were many grand sentimental figures,
like that of Sumner, grouped around the councils
of Washington. And all this is to be lost, just
because America hesitates to do to-day a thing as
just as the Emancipation was politic.
* * *
The negro is scorned, despised, spat upon, out-
raged. Should he commit any serious breach of
the law he is • liable in many places to be
dragged from gaol by armed men and
lynched without a trial. No matter how much
he may be loved by a white woman, onUdrop in
his veins of the accursed African blood places him
beyond the pale of wedded bliss—and that in the
land where a fourth of the white population has
passed through the Divorce Court. He may not ride
in the same carriage, use the same hotels, frequent
the same places of public resort. Even the menial
occupations formerly monopolised by the negro
are now “ run ”by the whites. The black barber
is a memory of the past. The “swart Paynim ”
is lower in the Northern States than a Sudra
pariah in Hindoostan. Yet the negro is not in
America by his own free will. He did not, indeed,
wish to be there at all. He was dragged thither
against his will, often with the most appalling
barbarity. He was parted from all he held dear—
from wife, children, warfare, hunting-grounds,
rank, and liberty. He was taken then to some
pestiferous cotton-field, and “ profit ” was flogged
and sweated out of his contemned black skin by
the fathers of the present owners of the United
States. He was forced to marry a woman of his
own race, forced to become a parent—and his
children were sold under his eyes whensoever his
master listed and sent whithersoever he willed.
The negro has a cruel score to settle —let the
American nation beware pay-day !
* * #
But it is in the power of the people of the United
States to do a splendid thing ! In 1833 England
voted £20,000,000 of money to compensate the
Liverpool merchants for the slaves emancipated
under Wilberforce’s Act in 1807; and the
labours of Granville Sharpe and Zachary
Macaulay and other zealous men received sub-
stantial endorsement in a national monetary gift
to Freedom. The American Treasury is bursting
with stored dollars. Warships are being built,
the pensions of the men who were wounded in
that very war which ended in the emancipation
of the negro race from slavery are increased from
year to year, in a vain effort to diminish the
threatening surplus. Here is Aiherica’s oppor-
tunity ! Herein lies the possibility of a grand act
of expiation and reparation, of justice and gener-
osity. You Americans have crowded the negro
out. You have fashioned and moulded him into
a hostile force. You hate and you fear him. A
quarter of a century ago you did him little
good and a great deal of harni by liberat-
ing him, but, at the same time, precluding
his chance to rise by branding him as
an inferior, racially, socially, politically.
Yet, Americans, the same power which to-
day, by the permission of your laws, has free
play to crush you against the stones, to grind you
to powder, brought the negro, against his will, to
make “profit ” which he might not share. Your
capitalist tore the negro from his native land, it
remains for you to restore him to it. What are
twenty millions of money ? Give him all he wants
—sixty, a hundred millions; whatever may be
necessary. You have civilised and educated the
negi’o somewhat during his sojurn amongst you.
Do a fine justice; restore him to Africa —full of
cruelty, ignorance, and barbarism let him
civilise that —and help him to do it. Give him
money, arms, food ; build him a city; provide
him with a fleet if need be. You have the money!
For the nonce forget that you are a commercial
nation, and do something foolish and magnificent,
which the Jay Goulds amongst you will be at a
loss to understand. Deport the negro, but do it
on a princely scale—thus you will avoid a war of
extermination, and a probable record of injustice
that will make your name go down the centuries
accursed and blood-stained in the annals of
humanity.
Leave to Toil.
The Sydney Daily Telegraph of a late date had
a sub-leader dealing with a meeting held to con-
sider “the serious condition of the local labour-
market.” The writer, evidently desirous that his
readers should imagine that wilful extravagance
is chiefly responsible for the prevailing distress,
quoted, with gusto, the statement of a clergyman
that the four and a-half millions spent annually in
alcoholic stimulants in New South Wales is
primarily responsible for the miseries and the
numbers of the unemployed in Sydney and
throughout that province. He made no attempt
to prove the truth of the argument, and very
wisely, for no greater fallacy was ever promul-
gated. In Sydney alone there are probably not less
than from four to five thousand unemployed work-
men. Had these been displaced by intemperance,
there would obviously have been, at some period,
numerous vacancies and large importations of
labour to fill them ; on the contrary, workmen are
not being drawn towards New South Wales, but
those who can are rapidly leaving it by every
available exit.
* # #
This feeble argument disposed of, we are then
told by those pseudo moralists of the upper and
middle classes who demand from the masses a
self-denial, a height of morality to which they can
lay no claim, that the workers’ misery is attribut-
able solely to extravagance and neglect to make
provision, in periods of steady employment and
prosperity, for the inevitable rainy day. How
delightful ! How consoling to the atrophied,
comatose consciences of these smug, unreflecting
Pharisees thus lightly to brush away the burdens
of others with this “Am I my brother’s keeper’
stain of sophistry. But what a mockery of
misery, what shallow selfishness, what invincible
ignorance ! How much can the worker, who has
a family to support, save from a weekly wage
barely sufficient for the supply of necessaries; a
wage that varies from £3 at the most, down
to a pitiful dole, in many cases, of five-and-
twenty shillings ? A fine margin there for saving,
truly, is there not, most noble and virtuous Mam-
mon Chadband, Esq. ? What does saving mean
under such circumstances, good sir ? Not a dock-
ing of superfluities, a dispensing with luxuries,
a renunciation of stimulants. No, a thou-
sand times, no ! It means a hiring of cheaper
houses, an immoral huddling together in dog-
kennels, the foregoing of comforts, decent clothing,
necessary food, and the dishonest evasion of just
debts. For the life of the decent workman’s wife
is too often one of never-ending futile attempts to
make both ends meet, of constant scheming to ob-
tain supplies for next week while paying with her
ready cash for the credit-supplied goods of the last.
# * *
What do these flinty Pharisees think that the
worker is made of ? Do they imagine that he is
utterly without human desires, hopes, and aspira-
tions ; a Simeon Stylites who can unmoved
stand chained to the dreary pillar of barren duty
throughout a lifetime without attempting to seek
change of scene, instruction, or relaxation ? Surely
not, and yet, apparently, they do. It is surely
evident that even the single man can hardly be
expected deliberately to throttle all the joy out
his life in order that he may “ create a surplus for
the tiding over of occasional periods of commer-
cial depression.” No matter how soberly and care-
fully he may live, the cost of livelihood and
rational amusement will not allow of the savings
required to support him throughout months of
forced idleness —to say nothing of unavoidable
illness.
* * *
But, to hark back, who is chiefly responsible for
the bulk of the money expended in liquor ? Not
the worker, with his Saturday-night’s “ thri’p’ny ”
beer-booze, but assuredly the consumer of “ six-
penny drinks,” the “well-to-do,” whose life is a
continual carousal. The working-man is doubt-
less no saint; but, compared with other classes, he
is just as certainly no exceptional sinner, and the
attempt to make his vices the parent of the wants
that are the offspring of social conditions, and
in turn largely responsible for his weaknesses, is
even more absurdly fallacious than most arguments
that issue from the Pulsfordian figure-factory.
# * *
The capitalistic special pleader then ui'ges
that, even admitting the distresses of the many
who vainly beg leave to toil, there is nothing
thereby proven, that these are “inevitable.”
True, O King, inevitable under prevailing con-
ditions, and therefore the alteration of these con-
ditions is urgently demanded. We agree with our
contemporary that “ the creation of public works
for merely charitable purposes cannot be recom-
mended only one thing can be more objection-
able, and that, the temporary tiding-over of the
unemployed difficulty by the performance of
private work at public cost. Both are mere
palliatives, momentary bushings of a public out-
cry, a mere covering over of a grievous social sore,
the temporary shuffling out of a difficulty that
daily becomes more difficult of settlement, while
the latter method is in addition a public robbery
of the most heinous character.
* # *
There is only one certain and, ultimately, inex-
pensive way out of the difficulty; that is, the
employment of Socialistic methods. Around
Sydney there are vast areas of tide-invaded land,
rocky and sandy soil, vvhich, with the application
of labour, might be reclaimed and made capable of
supplying the wants of millions. But it is not
enough that settlement on such lands should be
allowed ; tools, seeds, habitations, and temporary
means of subsistence are also necessary. Why
should not the Government of New South Wales
lend at least part of the enormous sums hitherto
annually disbursed for the unproductive clearing
of land again over-run with scrub inside two
years, and the execution of public works (in the
meantime usually unnecessary) to the unemployed,
to be used in such a manner that, within an easily-
to-be-calculated period, a large return to the
revenue may be looked for ?
* * *
Let the Minister of Lands open certain areas
to these unfortunates, who shall also be supplied
with moveable houses, tools, seeds, and the means
of subsistence, and who shall, when reclamation
is accomplished, be settled on the soil with life-
leases, the order of choice and the area allotted, to
be determined by the amount and character of the
work performed by each worker and the number
of persons dependent on his exertions. When the
soil becomes reproductive a rental may be im-
posed, and, in addition, a small yearly charge for
the gradual reimbursement of the public outlay ;
no increase of rent to be imposed on account of
any increase in fertility caused by the exertions of
the holder, while the land is subject to raised
rental-taxation for values created by the money
and exertions of the community. This, it may be
said, would not benefit skilled workers ; indirectly
it would. In the first place, it would ease compe-
tition and afford opportunities for greater produc-
tion by the opening of fresh markets.
# * *
This plan has previously been advocated in
these columns, though never at such length ; it
may be faulty, but until some better solution of
the difficulty is brought forward it shall have our
unqualified support.
The Great Moss Will Case.
The Moss Will Case resulted (after an expendi-
ture of £6OOO in law-costs) in a verdict which,
owing to circumstances over which the jury had
no control, was received with cynical laughter
rather than snorts of disgust. Not an atom of
public sympathy attached to the parties contesting
this long-drawn-out suit, and, where no senti-
mental rights are involved, the doing of a legal
wrong is only a matter for regret in so far that one
side derives a benefit from it. Neither side can
advance any worthy claims to the Moss cake,
therefore the prospect of hungry lawyers “ scoff-
ing ” the entire confectionery is regarded with a
certain amount of negative satisfaction. Out-
siders, who don’t look for a good principle below
the dirty surface of a bad cause, actually encour-
age the bewigged marauders to go in and win.
As long, however, as Trial by Jury assumes to be
the palladium of Australian liberty, everybody is
interested in seeing that the venerable institution
doesn’t make an ass of itself.
# # #
Old Man Moss departed this life leaving behind
him £30,000 and a thriving business. He was a
lighterman at Port Melbourne. Let us remark,
in passing, that a lighterman is somewhat of a
commercial incubus, whose occupation ought to
be pretty considerably gone forever. Ships un-
load their cargoes away from the pier instead
of at the pier, in order that the Mosses
of this world may charge thumping fees for
conveying the goods where they ought to be,
conveyed without any such waste of time and
capital. There is a humorous appositeness in the
Law ultimately acquiring the coin made by lighter-
ing—but no matter. As Moss advanced in years
and wealth he began to be sorely troubled in his
mind regarding the disposal of his property, and
he made a fresh will about every six months. It
was not so much the question of whom to leave
most money to, as the question of whom to leave
least to, which troubled this hard old man. For
his sons, and blood relations, with one possible
exception, he had no affection, but for want of
more congenial heirs and assigns he always
selected them until a Mrs. Grace Somner came
along and won his feeble old heart. A plump,
tricky person was, and is, Mrs. Grace Somner.
Not a painfully respectable woman, as respecta-
bility goes, but still a woman good enough for
Moss (described, on all hands, as a shrewd, strong-
willed lighterman) to put in control of his house-
hold. Whether she ministered to the aged
widower’s baser passions ” (Mr. Somner being
a convenient kind of husband who kept in the
background) matters not. Moss made several more
wills in rapid succession, each more in favour of
the lady who cut his corns and tickled his fancy.
Anticipating troubles after his death, the careful
old boy briefed a barrister to witness his later
wills, so that legal as well as medical testimony to
his mental capacity might be forthcoming. There
can be no doubt that Moss bequeathed the bulk of
his property to Mrs. Somner of his own free,
strong will, being as glad to let her have it as he
was pleased to disappoint the relatives he hated,
disliked, or had become indifferent to. Mrs.
Somner could encourage, but not force him to act
as he did. Her influence, at the worst, was no
different to that of the designing second wife of
any old gentleman who has intended to enrich his
grown-up children until the new enchantress comes
and cuts them out. While society admits a sane
man’s right to will any money away after death, it
must admit his right to will it to the woman he
likes best in the world, be she artful or simple,
“proper” or otherwise. Moss’s anticipation of
an objection to his testamentary arrangements
were fulfilled by the sensational law-suit brought
to a temporary conclusion last week.
# # *
For fourteen days Chief Justice Higinbotham
sat in the court and heard evidence proving noth-
ing more clearly than the complete sanity, clear-
headedness and cheerfulness of Old Man Moss at
the time when he signed the contested piece of
parchment by which Mrs. Somner hoped to reap
the fruits of being patient, clever, unscrupulous,
and —a member of the female sex. At the end of
it all the judge told the jury, as straight as he
could, that they were bound to uphold a man’s
right to dispose of his property as he deliberately
chooses, always provided that his choice has not
been influenced by the fraudulent misrepresenta-
tions of a legatee to the disadvantage of parties
who might otherwise have obtained a share of the
spoil. He likewise insisted upon the obvious fact
that there was no reasonable suspicion of fraudu-
lent misrepresentation in this case, save in con-
nection with the disinheriting of a grand-
daughter Sophy, but that, anyway, the will and
two codicils should not be set at naught on
Sophy’s account. After the Judge had concluded
his charge the jury-foreman asked questions
which threatened a verdict different to what Was
expected by intelligent weighers of the evidence,
and the Judge gave a second charge—added a
postscript to his former address —to the effect
that “ testator was, at the time of the execution
of each of the three instruments, in full posses-
sion of his senses and apparently exercising his
Own and not another’s will.” Whereupon 11
jurymen immediately decided that Moss was not
exercising his own will, and found for the protestor.
Under these circumstances one naturally feels
sorry for a judge who has to take a verdict which
accuses him of not knowing anything at all about
the matter under discussion. Either he or
the jury must be pitied for their stupidity. And
if the jury, why doesn’t the law take measures to
prevent the palladium of English liberty ever con-
sisting of weak-minded creatures, leavened by
pompous simpletons '!
PLAIN ENGLISH.
“In Private.”
With a simplicity quite refreshing in this age of
shuffle and deceit the London Standard suggests
that future Federation arrangements must be con-
ducted in private, otherwise it will be impossible
for the delegates to arrive at workable com-
promises. In other words, the Standard tell us
that the making of an Australian Constitution must
necessarily involve a sacrifice of honest principles
on the part of some of its makers, who cannot
reasonably be expected to disgrace themselves in
detail before the people they are appointed to re-
present,*but yet might not object to share in the ,
divided responsibility of a job perpetrated in the
dark. The Standard has been informed that
there are Radicals at the Antipodes—nasty, dis-
affected Democrats whose political ideas were not
born on the “ Canadian system, ” nor nurtured on
loyal taffy from Downing-street. Watched by
such creatures as these no great Imperial
swindle could be safely accomplished. They would
embarrass any convention that was after the
Standard’s own Tory heart by wanting to know,
yon know, with the awful persistency of that Oir-
oumlocution Office enquirer immortalised by
Dickens. For which reason, says the ingenuous
London journal, it is absolutely necessary for the
colonial delegates to deliberate in camera. I or the
next few months ederation will occupy its old
position in the air, and nobody cares much
whether a shadowy sentiment is constructed on
the Canadian system or otherwise. When it has
to be licked into a practical shape, however, the
Australian people will strenuously object to any
sudden turning off of the light of publicity. -Ihey
will put every trust in their delegates—as far as
they can see them. Human nature has not
altered materially since Shakespeare’s day, when
as the Bard observed, the opportunity to do ill
deeds oft made ill deeds done. Any covered-up
Convention attended by such professional grovel-
ters as Gillies, Dr. Oockburn, and Sir
John Hall would bristle with opportuni-
ties, nay, encouragements, to do ill deeds.’
It requires no stretch of the imagination to picture
Chairman Gillies intimating to the company that
Her Majesty would be graciously pleased to knight
everybody not already knighted, if they agreed to
let the new nation be bound, hand and foot, with
those beloved silken bonds. The secret history of
“ loyalty ” abounds in passages as base and con-
temptible as the above. No, the Federal Conven-
tion must be a plain, straightforward matter, and
the fierce light which doesn’t beat upon a throne
must beat upon the performers in. that national
gathering. Sensible men are not ashamed to with-
draw arguments which stand in the way of an
honest end. What is the objection to the world
looking on at a clean and wholesome compromise ?
It is only desirable to hide from criticism a com-
promise that answers to the sinister description
of “ workable.”
+
The “Hopefuls."
Thk terrific punishment meted out “in a moment
of popular madness ” to the “Hopefuls,” six odd
years ago, by one of the few men whom Australia
can reckon among consistent, live-long patriots,
Sir Charles Lilley, carried its own condemnation
on the face of it. It was not that the men did not
deserve punishment, and the most severe punish-
ment. They were beyond all question guilty of
the perpetration or abetting of the most horrible
crimes. But no crime, however horrible,
justifies cold-blooded torture in retaliation,
and though, at the moment, a certain sec
tion of the Queensland Australian public
yelled with delight over the hideous enforce-
ment of “the Christless code” that condemned
men to such sentences as solitary and manacled
confinement, the popular conscience has slowly
swung round, and now the cry has gone to the other
extreme and the prisoners have all had an un-
conditional release. Scholefield, the Govern-
ment agent, was a physical wreck before he put
foot in the infamous bark, and there was certainly
something to be said on behalf of him as a sinner
rather by gross negligence than vicious design ;
but at the time “ outraged Queensland ” was
howling for a treatment of victims to whitewash
its own ill-name or ill-fame, and the wretched
man had no mitigation of his sentence, but died
slowly in his irons—was allowed to rot to death
slowly in irons while the gaol-doctors ironically
held up his head so that they might give medicine
to alleviate the tortures of the fetters which were
weighing him down to the grave. This sort of thing
is rapidly becoming too much for even Australian
public opinion to swallow, and the news of his death
was received with a sense of recoil. It is a ques-
tion also to what extent “ justice ” can be
called “ justice,” when it sacrifices a man
or a few men as a sort of scapegoat for
the offences of hundreds and even thousands,
backed up by a local state of public opinion
which has long tolerated a certain condition of
affairs, and only recognises the intrinsic abomina-
tion thereof when the outer world gets slinging
brickbats at it by way of comment. The
“ Hopefuls ” were certainly scapegoats. They
were more. They were political scapegoats. They
were “run” by Gbiffith and the Liberal saints
of 1883, then in the full flood-tide of their power,
as a means of tarring and feathering the opposite
party. To doubt the justice of the judicial sava-
gery of the sentence, was made by these men to
appear as sympathising with the crimes of the
M ‘Neils and Williamses, known or unknown.
There was bound to come a reaction against all
this unscrupulous “bluff,” and it was right that
it should come. Griffith has just repeated this
miserable charge, and will evidently do what he
can to make political capital out of it; but it is
probable that Queensland, and Australia behind it,
will take the medium course and agree that if the
original offence was heinous so was the sentence,
and now, after these wretched men have been
brought to the verge of the grave, and one of them
pushed right over it, it is pretty fair to let Justice
and them cry quits. Old Botany Bay, and old
Moreton Bay, die hard.
During the first trial of Willoughby Andrews
for the killing of the unfortunate Mr, Bartlett,
in King-street, Sydney, one of the juryihen
was “ sternly reproved ” by the presiding judge
for enquiring what a sentence of “imprison-
ment during the Governor’s pleasure would
involve. Such incidents are hopeful signs of
the times. Warned by the outrageous and
often horrible decisions arrived at by the New
South Wales Executive, with the assistance of the
judges, in many cases wherein convicted prisoners
have been strongly recommended to mercy, there
is an increasing desire among jurors to secure the
privilege of fixing the sentence while finding the
verdict. In other words, the jurymen vvho find a
prisoner guilty want to say how guilty they
consider him to be. There are as many degrees of
murder as there are stars in Heaven, and it is quite
obvious, from past experience, that the opinions
of the judges—on matters concerning human life —
which are all-potent in the secret sittings of the
New South Wales Executive Council, are utterly
out of harmony with the feelings and aspirations
of the people.
*.
Poor old Leichhardt ! They’ve found him
again, and Baron VON Mueller, comforter and
all, is immediately after him. This time a man
named M‘Phke has heard that some white men
died somewhere. Of course it’s Leichhardt.
How was it the Marble Man escaped being Leich-
hardt ? The S.M. Herald, however, puts the
matter straight in its telegram. It says that
“ news was obtained from the blacks in the north-
east of Australia that two white men had died
some couple of hundred miles to the eastward.”
Now, the north-east of Australia is somewhere
about Townsville, and 200 miles eastward would
land a man in good deep water outside the
Barrier. We never had a high opinion of Leich-
hardt as a bushman, but we certainly gave him
credit for more judgment than would be shown in
his getting out there.
4.
Since the London dock-labourers won their extra
penny an hour about ten big strikes have all re-
sulted in favour of the toilers and moilers. Which
means that the £30,000 contributed by these colo-
nies is already benefiting a whole army of wage-
earners other than those who threw up their hats
for “Good Old Australia” a few weeks back.
How’s that for the Tories who sneered at “hys-
terical enthusiasm ” and wrote columns of drivel
to show how it could do no lasting good in the
face of a certain antique chestnut called the law
of “supply and demand”? As things are going
at present Capital has to supply what Labour
reasonably demands.
The Sydney churches have been holding “ Day of
Rest ” services in which the desecration of that
day was freely descanted on and much prayer for
the cramming of more Sabbath into Sunday in-
dulged in. The first fruits have not been in the
direction of Sunday restfulness, for the reporters,
worn out with the week’s never-ending “ engage-
ments,” were compelled to attend morning and
evening service while spending the last hours of
the day, which, according to the clergy, “should
be one of spiritual rest and edification,” in
transcribing their notes. The “ edification ”
to be derived from listening to the dreary
Pharisaical drivel of the ordinary parson by the
newspaper man, who is thoroughly accustomed to
separate the grain of information from the chaff
of mere gabble, is not evident, and the sermon-re-
ports, like the theatrical notices, are apparently
apportioned, not according to the merits of the per-
former, but chiefly with a view to his social in-
fluence and position.


They do strange things in New Zealand.
At present there is a Native Land Court where
the Judge does not speak a word of Maori and his
colleague on the bench, the Native Assessor, does
not speak a word of English. When they are con-
sulting about a judgment it will be as good as a
play.
The Referee.
Last Saturday’s racing at Caulfield threw a
little prophetic light on the coming Autumn campaign at
Plemington. Titan’s easy win in the Oakleigh Handicap
indicates that Mr. James White will be dangerous, as
usual, and ensures Rudolph’s starting at a short price for
the Newmarket, all going well, meantime. That tins un-
pretentious-looking gelding will run into a “shop” is the
most promising prediction worth hazarding on a race
which can never be a certainty except for a first-class
animal with the best of tempers and lightest of weights.
If such a one starts in the race Rudolph can’t quite win,
hut according to present appearances it is not more than
four to one against Mr. White repeating the Cranbrook
coup, Rudolph is faster than he looks, or than many
people imagine, and Hales in the saddle is a fair guarantee
that he won’t be left at the post. At time of writing,
however, there are at least a dozen “good things” for the
Newmarket. They can’t ail win—perhaps an unfancied
outsider will do the lot. We will endeavour to show
vvhich of the really genuine candidates are least worthy of
punter’s support on public form, or on information re-
ceived from sources more or less reliable.
* * #
It seems rash to take a short price about Fish-
wife, good mare as she is, while Boz is a probable starter,
because the Caulfield Cup winner has her beaten by the
book. Last V.R.C. Derby Day both Boz and Fishwife
were well backed for the Coburg Stakes, and the horse
gave his lady friend a stone and a sound licking. Fishwife
has improved much since then, but unless she has im-
proved 211bs. more than Boz she will see the black’s tail
once again. Apropos has been backed to win £20,000 by
the “Dunlop” Sanders division, purely on trial gallops.
In public this ex-New Zealander has never run like a
winner of the Newmarket at Bst. lOlbs. She is a very
showy mare, and in clever hands, nevertheless the punter,
who only means backing a couple at the most, can hardly
find solid reasons for making Apropos one of his selections.
Nor Gladstone, a good-looking rogue that is fancied by his
own people in spite of previous disappointments. Both-
wcll, another handsome deceiver, should have none the
worst of it with Gladstone, jet probably neither of
them will finish in front of Dunkeld, also uncertain,
and therefore not a gentleman to swear by in a
field which also includes several good game ’uns. On
last Newmarket form Churchill has a show, which
looks the more hopeful since his stable-companion, Mel-
lonian, dead-heated with Maggie on Saturday, for Maggie
bears an excellent character among people who ought to
know. Corunna’s chance cannot be estimated, but as a
beautiful filly by Musket, out of Loohiel’s dam, she reads
like a flier, and should beat the much-talked-of Ginger.
Sedition is unfortunately lame, and latest reports about
Deception are not of a rosy hue. Don Giovan, Aristocrat,
and half-a-dozen other alleged triers don’t take our
fancy so much as Sir William (Fielder’s mount), who is
likely, according to all that Tub Bulletin can see and
hear, to beat everything bar Rudolph and another.
“ Another” means The Wild Oat, a rough, bob-tailed nag,
game enough to carry any man’s dollar at a respectable
price. Nothing in the field is more likely to get off in
front and stop there than this same Wild Oat. He is an
odd-looking little animal with a large heart, like Cerise
and Blue. If the public are to suffer a severe surprise
next Saturday it will possibly be all along of Mr. Sam
Cook sowing a Wild Oat.
* * «
The Australian Cup falls to the first favourite
oftener than any handicap run in Australia, and Mr.
White has a habit of getting there. After Dreadnought
has fulfilled his destiny by annexing the Leger, the chest-
nut will jump to 6to 4 for the Cup, and win it. That is
to say he will win it if Enfilade or Melos don’t, but rather
than leave this matter in doubt Tub Bulletin will pin its
faith to Dreadnought and take the awful consequences.
It will be pretty safe to pile the pecuniary results of this
tip upon Carbine for the Champion. Mr. Wallace’s great
horse is in better form at present than when he carried
lOst. into second place for the Melbourne Cup.
* * *
Irate Victorians are pointing out that the next
Australian Eleven will not be a representative lot. The
“Fifth” Eleven—who lost as many games as they won,
and made draws of the rest—were pronounced to be a
splendid representative team before they went Home.
The men picked for the next trip are about the best obtain-
able, under the usual difficulties, and have better preten-
sions to play for Australia than the average All England
Eleven have to fight for the dear old Mother Country.
# # #
It was at one time rumoured that Sculler
Searle left behind him when he died £BOOO. As a matter
of fact, his will was last week proved for £l2OO, and it will
come rather as a shock to outsiders to learn that even
this amount will be considerably reduced by the payment
of the late sculler’s burial expenses It would be interest-
ing to know who ordered the pageant, and whether the
parents of the departed were informed that they would have
to pay the piper by the gentlemen whose motto appeared
to bo “expense no object-especially as we haven’t to
pay.” In Beach’s time, and again in Searle’s, The Bul-
letin frequently pointed out the golden opportunities
these men were neglecting in not visiting America on their
own “ hook,” where Searle could, without any worry or
training, have made as much in a few afternoons, rowing
mere exhibition races on proprietary waters, as he accu-
mulated during the whole of his career in the hands of
hangers-on. This may not lie a “ patriotic ” way of look-
ing at it, but had poor Searle posssssed the gift of second
sight he might have accepted our view of the situation,
especially on realising that the middlemen for whom he
was coining thousands would in silence allow his parents
to pay for what the public looked upon as a tribute to his
prowess by disinterested admirers. It would certainly be
interesting to kirow if Searle’s parents were aware at the
time that they would have to paj%
» * *
But for a momentary attack of nerves Mr.
Lewis Clarke would have beaten Captain Brewer in their
third pigeon massacre at Melbourne. He failed on the
pinch, however ; just when the proud title of Champion
Bird Destroyer seemed within his grasp, he allowed the
98th to go unpotted, “ to the great regret of all his (Mr.
Clarke’s, not the pigeon’s) friends.” Fortunately Mr.
Clarke brought down the following two amidst hoarse
cries of jubilation, thus making a tie with the gallant
Captain, at 95 birds each. Every one present acknow-
ledged that this was indeed beautiful shooting. Of the
ten little feathered pets which didn’t suffer a violent
decease inside the boundary about six terminated a
miserable existence on the wrong side of the fence. It is
very hard luck fora shooter to be robbed of a point by
the wayward conduct of a pigeon in its last agonj’, and
his backers get go mad that they would like to jump on
the corpses which descend out of bounds. Yet the other
man’s backers are sympathetic in such cases, observing :
“ Poor little devil a pity it didn’t get clean
away.” Only four, out of two hundred, got clean
away last Monday week, and one of the lucky quar-
tette had most of its feathers blown off, so is probably
dead enough by this time. Captain Brewer’s thirty-third
pigeon displayed great sagacity by refusing to fly when
called upon, and another one had to be executed in its
stead. But as it is usual to wring the neck of a pigeon
which objects to provide sport, there is every reason to
hope that number thirty-three got there just the same.
The American champion’s visit is giving a great imoetus
to the manufacture of pigeon pie.
# # «
Moorbank will break no more backers, lhat
Caulfield Cup disappointment got cast in his box last week
and expiated a long list of turf sins by being shot. Young
Brodribb, the plunger from Broken Hill, dropped a little
fortune over the horse, one way and another. And now
they are trying to make out that Moorbank was poisoned.
Ihere is much dissatisfaction in South Australia
over the new Australian Eleven. Lyons is now the only
representative of that colony, and the Adelaide cricketers
consider that Jarvis, M‘Kenzie and Haldane have superior
claims to Gregory and Deane.
# * #
Joe Sadler, the English champion sculler, died
of consumption.
* # #
Pugilist Smith, finding that punching is not to
his taste, and that Lord Ailesbury, a bosom friend, has
livings to give away, intends, it is said, to read up for the
Church.
* * #
The Argus cable-man announces that Lord
Deerhurst has been declared bankrupt. He was tolerably
bankrupt when he did Australia, but a declaration to
that effect was felt to be superfluous after bookmaker
Sutton had plugged his noble proboscis.
* # #
A certain “nobleman” has given Peter Jack-
son a present of jewellery. As it is written in the records
of the Divorce Court that the lavish lord in question
kicked his wife while she was in delicate health, and told
his mistress to buy a second-hand perambulator for his
illegitimate child, wo cordially felicitate Mr. Peter Jack-
son on iiis luck in securing so distinguished and generous
a patron.
# # #
No one need be surprised at pugilist M'Carthy’s
late defeat. Dempsey is one of the gamest and stoutest
men who ever fought in a ring, and M'Carthy’s hands
were bound to go (so Larry Foley said months ago) in a
long and well-contested fight. Until Dempsey met La
Blanche lie had never been defeated once in the course of
over 40 pitched battles, and his friends offer to back him
against La Blanche for £lOOO, who, having opened “a
pub.,” publicly acknowledges that he won through a
fluke, and declines to have another “go” on any terms.
* * *
There was to be a meeting of athletes in Mel-
bourne, on the 26th, for the purpose of arranging an
“ Australian style ”of wrestling. What’s the matter with
the Coomberland style ?
* * *
Says Stephenson, the N.Z. sculling champion,
in reply to a query as to whether he could not have
beaten Hearn by a greater distance “ Well, I don’t like
to say anything about that. If I was all out I wouldn’t
care to say so. On the other hand, if I beat a man by two
lengths, it would look like boasting for me to say, ‘Oh, I
could have won by half-a-mile.’ It looks had, you know,
to talk like that when you’ve beaten a man.” Some
champions we wot of might take a lesson from this modest
statement.
# * *
An Australian syndicate proposes to take over
the New Zealand Stud Company’s business.
* # *
The A.J.C. must have begun to realise the fact
that their interests were at stake before venturing upon
such drastic measures in connection with pony and gal-
loway racing. That Sydney is having a plethora of horse-
racing there cannot be a doubt, but if the public think
proper to largely support pony-racing, why should the
A.J.C. say them nay? The sidewind that pony-racing is
detrimental to the breeding of horses is pure nonsense.
The pony in his own way is as useful an animal as the
thoroughbred, and, as a rule, the successful ponies and
galloways are not the weeds of their class, but well-fur-
nished little models, which, taken all through, would lose
the average six-furlong sprinter in a day’s or week’s
journey with equal weights up. That pony-racing about
Sydney has hitherto been a hotbed of daylight robbery
we cannot deny, but if the sport can be regulated in
India, where great interest is taken in and large prizes
put up for the little ’uns, why not in Australia, now that
we have a pony-racing association ?
** ' #
It is said that a number of Indian defaulters are
now racing in England without any notice being taken by
the Jockey Club. We do things better than that in Aus-
tralia. To wit, the action of the V.R.O. last season in
prohibiting a well-known Indian defaulter from racing in
Victoria.
# * *
John Corlett, editor of the London Pink ’Un,
is one of the few’ English sportsmen who think highly Of
Mr. White’s Derby candidates, Kirkham and Narellan.
W * *
In 1846 Touchstone stood at 30 guineas, Venison
25 guineas, Lanercost 20 guineas, Bay Middleton and
Orlando 10 guineas each. Hermit, a grandson of Touch-
stone in the male line, now stands at 250 guineas, and
Galopin, a grandson of the Flying Dutchman, stands at
the same price, and both are full a year beforehand.
# # #
They are about to build in America a trotting
track in the shape of the figure 8, with the judge’s stand
w’here the roads cross. It is expected to be the fastest
track in the w T orld.
# # #
It would not seem that a trick-shooter with a
rifle is necessarily infallible “on the wing.” In the recent
match with Mr. Clarke, in Melbourne, when the scores
were equal at one hundred, Mr. Clarke’s friends offered to
go on with another 25 birds, but Captain Brewer declined.
Mr. J. Tracey, of Port Melbourne, has now been matched
against the American for 100 birds at 26 yards rise, single
barrel only. Ed. Holske, the Yankee walker, who acts as
Captain Brewer’s agent, is a bit of a newspaper fiend, and
flies into print on the slightest provocation. So far, his
press effusions have done Brewer no good, and the Cap-
tain might well cry aloud for someone to save him from
his friend. Brewer and Holske were recently called upon
by the Melbourne Gun Club to explain an alleged state-
ment of their’s that Brewer had not received fair play in
his first match with Mr. Clarke. The Captain repudiated
having made such a remark, but Holske replied that in
his opinion the trapper favoured Mr. Clarke by nearly
always pulling the middle trap. And the Melbourne club
were soft enough to allow it to pass.
# * #
Dissension already exists in re the Australian
Cricket Team. We know not w'hy Alec. Bannerman is
not included, unless it is that he finally decided not
to go, and the proverbial little bird now whispers that
Blackhara and Trott object to the inclusion of Deane,
as they consider W. Harry a better man behind the sticks.
We know’ Deane to be a tradesman both behind and in
front of the wickets, whilst the Sydney representatives
who went to Victoria did not form a good opinion of
Harry’s batting, but surely some of the Adelaide and
Melbourne boys are entitled to selection before Syd
Gregory, good as he may be for a young one.
# * *
In re the secretaryship of the N.S.W. Cricket-
ing Association, Mr. “ Dave ” Gregory’s mantle has fallen
on worthy shoulders in the person of Mr. Jack ”
Portus. John has had a busy time since his inception,
but has shown himself to be all there, and as handy at
carrying one end of a cricketing-bag as at opening a bottle
of fizz for the visitors.
# # #
“Pendragon” points that you can’t expect
much from cockney pugilists, because he heard lately
some East-Enders declare that a prominent amateur
would likely go under in a forthcoming fight, because he
couldn’t get enough to eat, and was still more surprised
to hear one of the crowd advise the others to put their
money on as he had arranged for him to have “one square
meal per day.” Do you hear, Hanlaii ?
» * #
Billiard Champion Roberts has just given
Taylor 9,000 in 20,000. He won by 1,143, making one
break of over 500 and numberless of over 100. Taylor
would probably give any of our Australian players one-
third the game. Peall made a break of 2,170, including
721 consecutive spots, while playing White recently.
Roberts leaves home in April to tour India, China, the
Cape and Australia.
CORRESPONDENCE
“ Sco'ty ” ; A a post-mortem is very steep, please
give us all names and localities “Aline Cobit";
Letter posted... “H. MoM.” (Mortlake) : (1.) They arc
more than a nation, they are a race, as well as a sect.
(2.) Of course not. (3.). 366,684 in 1888 “C. Dow”;
Your verses are veiy original, but, considered as verse,
scarcelj' suitable.... “ Geo. Willings ” : Your muse might
suit the Canadian Government, who intend to confer 100
acres of land# on the parents of 12 children, but her
fecundity staggers The Bulletin’s virgin modesty
“C. Dow ” : We aren’t going to do it again . ..“W. P.
Bradshaw”: Pamphlet to hand. Thanks....“ Geo.
Sharp”: Too long and too phonetic as to spelling....
“Timer”: Thanks. May use “Mrs. G. B. R.” :
Scarcely suitable..“ Ghanet” Too flowery..“ W.R.W.’ :
Much too sweeping. He is a man of undoubted ability
“O.E.A.”: No, w'e hear that Imperial Federation
will in future be published as a comic paper
“H.S.”: Not up to scratch....“ O.E. A” : You cannot
anticipate hi-tory. Parkes is trying to make it “In-
cognito”: Will read the passage indicated. We have
never perused Lingard’s history of England....“ W. M.
Fox ”; Many thanks ; we had not seen the article. It
will appear in the book, but we aren’t just now at liberty'
to teli j'ou the name of the author, who so far has declined
bold advertisement “A.W.”: If the Sydney Daily
Telegraph is in favour of the Single-tax why doesn’t it
say so ? “E. Oarson ”: A really first-class telegraphic-
operator is like a really first-class shorthand-writer—
born, not made....“E. Stewart” (Balaclava): Thanks.
Will read and consider “ 8.8. E.”: Passable, but never
call anything of your own “ poetrj 7 ,” always call it
“ verse.” “ G.” (Braidw'ood) : A phonetic conundrum.
....“Hugh Vert”: We unfortunatelj' forget the item
alluded to “ South Sydney ”: Mr. John Norton’s poli-
tical conduct as a Protectionist must be viewed w ith ex-
treme suspicion by the Protectionist party, as Mr. Norton
is evidently fighting for his own hand, not for his alleged
partj'’s. It is onij' lately that we have been introduced
to Mr. John Norton in his character of local-option-
enthusiast. Mr. Toohey is undoubtedly a heavj'
handicap to the N.S.W. Protectionist party, but then you
know, so is Mr. John’ Norton, who is much
cleverer and just as glib as Mr. Toohej'
“ Stirrup Jingle ” ; What w 7 ere they entitled ?.. .“W. K.
Subscriber” : Have not received MS. so far “ E.C.8.”:
You had better get and read Mr. Flavelle’s spirited com-
ment on the present condition of Sydney hospital and its
financies, and vote for him as a director. The annual
subscriptions, he points out, don’t amount to an average
of 4d. per head of the city population.... “ Boongarie ” :
Your story is good enough and will soon be published.
We are always prepared to polish up a good story
however roughly told. .Henry Fletcher”: To hand
“ A.E. J.”; The solemn truth is that the Parkes scheme of
Federation evokes no national enthusiasm simply because
there is nothing strongly nationalistic in the utterances ex-
actions of its much-bebaubled chief advocate... “ R.N.W.’
(Vic.): Many thanks for your letter “P. B. Publico ” :
Thanks “J. W. Milsou ” (Waroo): The liquor-x-efonners
are all very well in their anti-rum capacity, but the pietis-
tic element, w'hioh so strongly prevails in the movement,
is a menace to liberty. Rather than see an absolute triumph
of lemonade and the clergy The Bulletin would wade neck
deep in rum and unholy Sabbath-open fruit-shops....
“Cole Corneille ”; To hand... “ W.S.C.” (Hobart): We
can’t replj' by post, but will read your M 5.... “ Walter
Ward ” (Tas.): It is evident on the face of the arrange-
ment that Henry George is not “ entirely on the money-
grab.” We will warrant that w r ere he as you put it “on
the grab ” he could, with the assistance of R. S. Smythe
make some thousands in Australia within a few months.
Have you ever been up in a balloon or
come down in a parachute? No! Ere you go
drink Marshall’s Tonic Nervine.
A Sydney man ran away from a pouceman
lately, “as I thought he was some tramp or evil-
disposed person, and I was wearing at the time a
rather valuable gold chain conspicuous on a white
waistcoat, besides having money on me, and seeing
nobody else about.” In our experience the gold-
chained, white-vested party is usually “ first
robber. ”
Sir Robert Stout, ex-Premier of N.Z., who
has no particular reason to speak kindly of The
Bulletin, gave it a free advertisement at an
Exhibition banquet at Dunedin, N.Z., recently.
He said that “ the only Australian papers having
any circulation in Southern New Zealand were the
Australasian and The Sydney Bulletin, and
in Northern New Zealand The Sydney Bulletin
and Sydney Mail.” So you see, The Sydney
Bulletin, which has a far larger circulation in
either province than either of the papers named, is
“ all over the shop.”
The Council of the N.S.W. Typographical
Association, by 20 votes to 5, have decided not to
admit Miss Compositress Hill to their ranks, on
the grounds that their rules speak of members as
“ journeymen,” and use the masculine pronoun—
arguing thereby that the constitution of the
Society does not contemplate the admission of
women. The Council informed Miss Hill, by
letter, that they admire her “ pluck and integrity, ”
but that they can’t let her work as a union
printer; the Council, whose decision may yet be
held bad in law, evidently have no intention of
removing her disabilities. The Bulletin
does not hesitate to say that the attitude of
the Council is illogical, unwise and illiberal.
Suppose now that some newspaper chose to offer
and Miss Hill chose to accept work, as a com-
positor, on the basis of the rates paid to male
compositors. Suppose, further, that on Miss Hill’s
beginning work, the union hands chose to turn
out and strike on the strength of the Council’s
miserable, unmanly quibble, does anybody think
for an instant that that newspaper would not have
the support of all the disinterested men and women
in the community? Some such difficulty will arise
in no time unless the Association amend their
rules, so as to provide for the admission of women
to membership on equal terms with men. Mean-
while, Miss Hill and all other women-compositors
are turned over to the “rat’’offices, to sell their
labour cheap and help to bring down wages to the
free-oompetition level. A general meeting of the
trade should be held on this momentous question.
MISS E. CONSTANCE STONE, M. B., C.M.
(The first qualified Australian lady doctor.)
A. certain big Sydney firm of “universal
providers” are importing plant wherewith to dc
all their own printing.
A man has been fined in Melbourne for
lying on a seat in the Carlton Gardens, Melb.
He was usurping the privileges of the police.
They have a very convenient law in
Turkey, by which a Turk’s house is_ inviolable.
He cannot be evicted, neither can his goods be
sold.
Charles the Second said Episcopacy was.
the only religion for a gentleman. “Yes,” said
Professor Blackie, recently, “to a gentleman such
as he was.” --
That was indeed a choice humourist who
included the name of “ Mr. J. Hourigan ” in the
list of the committee for the banquet given to Mr.
F. Abigail, L.O.L.
Said Mr, B. 11. Wise the other day at
Auburn : “ So long as a patient is in good health
medical quacks have no chance.” Nevertheless
Mr. Wise and the Irish aren’t “cousins.”
The New York World offered as prize a
free trip to Europe, including first-class fares, and
hotel bills, to the person who should make the
best shot at the time and hour of “Nellie Ely’s”
arrival in New York after her trip round the
world.
London Globe stylos W. H. Stead’s Re-
view of Reviews, a publication which contains a
condensation of the more remarkable articles
appearing in other periodicals, “a glorified form
of Tit Errs,” ami asserts that the Magazine
Rifle would have been its most appropriate title.
It is said that someone intends to test its legality.
Rumour again has it that Premier Gillies
intends shortly to re-shuffle his Cabinet cards.
Agricultural Dow has become obnoxious to him,
and is announced as likely to have to give place
to Cabbage-head Bent. Professor Pearson, the
harmless Minister of Education, who once wanted
the State to go in and breed wethers, is also get-
ting stale in the great Duncan’s eye, and teetotal
Jimmy Munro is looked upon as likely to be the
next Educational colleague of the double-chinned
dinner-loving Gillies. The latter, by the way, is
accused of mousing for the Agency-General of
Victoria, Sir Graham Perry being “ hunderstood
to ’ave a better thing hon.”
Au American lady, presumably in the in-
terests of the show business, some years ago pre-
sented her husband with twins, an allegorical
representation of Europe and Africa, joined
together, like the Siamese twins, by a fleshy
ligament, one fair as the dawn, the other black as
night. The former was a boy, the latter a girl,
and both grew and prospered, although.thenegress
did not make such rapid progress towards maturity
as her more handsome brother. By and-by an
accident happened, for the indissoluble couple fell
downstairs, the female partner in the firm break-
ing her arm. She began to waste away, and at
last the doctors decided that there must be a
divorce, and accordingly theband was cleft in twain.
Instantly the black girl set about dying, and in a
few minutes was no more. The lad felt bad
enough, but by dint of artificial respiration he was
brought round, and is now doing well, though a
piece more of the link had to be cut off him, as it
had begun to mortify. And what was found in
it? His sister’s heart! A post-mortem exam-
ination of the girl showed that she had carried .her
heart upon her sleeve and that the surgeon had
divided the connecting medium on the wrong side
of this necessary portion of the human frame.
Willoughby Andrews, the semi-crank, has
been convicted of murder and sentenced to be
hanged. As he has been recommended to mercy,
the odds are about ten to one (judging from pre-
vious performances of the N.S.W. Executive) that
he will be carefully strung up. The jury, in con-
victinghim of murder, clearly affirmed that he was
not insane, for homicide committed_by an insana
man cannot be construed as wilful murder. The
Judge, of course, will, we presume, be unable
to endorse the recommendation to mercy,
because, don’t you know, it is, considered
logically, at utter variance with the jury’s clearly-
expressed finding that Andrews deliberately
and of malice aforethought murdered his
victim. Then the judge being unable, out of
his i-espect for logic and the law as laid down in
the statute-book, to recommend the Executive to
set aside the verdict of the jury, which, in the
immortal words of Parkes, “is a sacred thing,”
the Executive .will decline the responsibility of
overruling the decision of the Supreme Court, and
what can the poor Governor do? —for the Governor,
as everyone knows, has weakly surrendered hi?
prerogative to Sir Henry Parkes, It will be idle
now to contend, as some misguided people have
done, that Andrews’ poetry proves him to be
insane. If on that score Andrews were adjudged
insane (and the jury were the sole arbiters of that
matter) then it is quite clear that the poet Parkes
who will practically preside over the final delibera-
tions as to the criminal’s fate, must bo a raving
bowling maniac.


A GHOST
is not a photograph, nor a photo, a ghost— but a good photo, is a
true reflection of the original. For high-art photos, go to the
London Palace of Art, 10 Park-street, Sydney. Country photographers’ work from developement
to completion executed at lowest prices. Bromides a speciality, Staif of artists kept for working up.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOB COMING WEEK.
Theatre Royal “ Little Lord Fauntleroy.”
Her Majesty's “My Jack.”
Criterion “Caste.”
Oi’kra House “ Hans the Boatman.
Cyclorama Battle of Gettysburg,
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Theatre Royal “ Hands Across the Sea.”
Princess’s “ Camille.”
Alexandra “ Robbery Under Arms.
Opera House “Nemesis.”
St. Georue’s Hall Cog-hill Bros. Company.
Victoria Hall “The Boston Ideal Co.”
Atiien-eum Frank Lincoln.
There is no word in the English language,
scarcely any series of words, which can adequately
describe the melodrama, “My Jack,” now staged
at Her Majesty’s, Sydney. It is a scene of blood
and thunder, and thud and blunder; of sunsets
resembling nothing so much as a dish of blood-
red fried eggs floating on a sea of melted
butter; of white-topped, cruel, green seas; of
tears, long woe-begone speeches; of irritatingly fre-
quent invocations of a Deity which by now should
have made up its mind to visit the show with
thunderbolts in all its hands ; of injured but even-
tually triumphant innocence in conflict with
flourishing, yet eventually cut-down-and-cast-
into-the-fire, vice. There are several deaths
in it, yet no epidemic of slaughter, and some
of the “ shufflings-off ” do not occur suffi-
ciently early in the evening to bring much
consolation to the soul that, having once seen an
apparently irremoveable incubus suddenly re-
moved, sighs for oceans of blood when they are
plentiful. Mrs. Rignold, revived for the first time
since “ Julius Ctesar,” makes the most of a blind
and therefore easily - deceived lady, Roland
Watts-Phillips has to pourtray a tearful woman
of considerable muscle, who is allowed to pull
out to sea with an old Scotch tar, well-pre-
served in salt, who casuistically tells her that
there is no danger in his boat, although he has
previously refused the services of a brother fisher-
man because his baby is teething. Madge Seymour
is graceful and winsome in a small ’part, and her
manner of bestowing osculatory favours was
universally admired. George Rignold, as the long-
lost heir, the jealous lover, the injured innocent,
plays with force and manliness, though he has,
when outside Shakespeare and in unimportant
speeches, a habit of slurring over his lines and
running one word into another, that makes one
imagine that he wants to get it off his chest
quickly. H. R. Jewett plays the villain—the
comely, bright, good-looking scoundrel who can’t
get a girl on the stage to love, while half the girls
“in front” are just dying to meet him at the
stage-door—with much gusto; whenever he cyni-
cally showed his white teeth to sneer at someone
he fairly yanked hisses out of the throats of the
gallery. Charles Hall and Stirling Whyte are, as
usual, capable, but our old friend Sweeney, as a
ranting, roaring, tearing Irish sailor, has got a
darling of a part and he does it justice. As Giro
Panitza, the disreputable villain, Frank Stephen-
son made his first Sydney appearance and gave a
kaleidoscopic rendering of the part, borrowing his
accent occasionally from the Seven Dials and
sometimes from Crete, but playing throughout
with great vigour. The Charles Prescott of A. E.
Greenaway died young and early—it pleased the
audience. As a piece of stage-mechanism “My
Jack ” is worthy of great praise, and there is imuffi
in it to please the unreflective mind.
iic Sfc
At Sydney Criterion “Caste ” lias been a
phenomenal success; “standing-room only” has
been hung on its bannisters every evening, and its
retiring audiences have swept out into the night-
air with that breezy babble that speaks of a well-
satisfied house. We are more than ever convinced
that G. W. Anson’s Eccles is about the best im-
personation of the season, and entitled to take
place alongside of the hitherto best pourtrayal of
the bibulous, garrulous, dirty old man ; and that
Missßomer’sMarquise is a refined and well-studied
piece of acting-. Altogether “ Caste ”is one of the
most even productions we have seen. Last Mon-
day night Brough came before the curtain to
announce that the Bijou, as The Bulletin pre-
dicted weeks ago, would not be ready for the
reception of an audience till March 28, and there-
fore he had been compelled to make terms with
Messrs. Sheridan and MacMahon for the foregoing
of the- “ Fun on the Bristol ” season. This may
be good news for the Sydney public, but it is very
bad business for the firm —it cost them £350 to
hold the fort a month longer, for a start. “Ours”
will follow “ Caste.”
$ r
“Little Lord Fauntleroy,” despite the
protestations of some critics who are prepared
to say anything, has not been such a finan-
cial success in Sydney as in Melbourne. As
a matter of fact, it has been running to
little more than half-houses. This is a clear
proof of the superior discrimination of the Sydney
theatre-going populace, but anyhow the public
capacity for dirt-eating and wallowing in the
mire before titles was never so noticeable in the
latter city as in the former. The little ladies now
play on alternate evenings, an arrangement which
somewhat lightens their heavy task, and Olive
Berkley intends to assume, as a sort of honne-
houche, the character of the Bowery boot-black
towards the end of the season. “Fauntleroy”
may be safely looked on as a valuable object-lesson
in Republicanism.
** * *
At the Royal Museum business is good
the Midgets, who have concluded their season,
now visit N.Z. and other places before returning
homewards to America, the land of freaks and
dime-museums, and advantage will be taken of
the stage-vacancy to give more effect to that blood-
curdling mystery, “Anoetos. ” Those charming
creatures, the Mermaid and Amphitrite continue
to be the hubs of attraction around which the
yearning masculine soul revolves.
** * *
We can’t tell you anything about the
Cyclorama. Go and see it.
4 »* « «
Signor Hazon’s orchestra of some 59
performers has done good work on the last two
Saturdays in the Exhibition Building, though by
no means heard to such advantage as in the Dar-
linghurst Hall. Last Saturday they introduced
three pieces hitherto unknown here—Schumann’s
overture to Manfred ; Bazzini’s symphonic
poem, “King Lear, ” and Pedrotti’s overture to
Tutti in Maschera. Encores were numerous,
hut, curiously enough, Boccherini’s Minuet, a
great favourite —we have heard a better rendering
—escaped recall. The attendance was good.
ifr -*- *
1 The world loves to gaze on the danger and
misery of other- people. You can always depend
on a goodly crowd rolling up to sue you wedded.or
hanged, or ducked in a horse-pond, especially J
the show is free. For instance, a bull-pup took a
fit in George-street, Sydney, on'Saturday morning
last, and no end of people speedily assembled to
watch the contortions of poor Tyke, whose show
had not been advertised. Miss Van Tassel,
having advertised a balloon ascent from Bondi
Aquarium on Saturday afternoon, thousands of
people (half of them gazers from afar off and too
poor or too mean to pay) assembled in the glorious
hopes of seeing her ascend and come down, per-
haps looking like a trodden-on raspberry tart.
The sisters Van Tassel are short, chubby, plucky,
pleasant-looking little Dutchwomen, as broad as
they are long, with fiery hair and fat limbs, and
utterly unlike the ideal gymnast as distinguished
from the heavy-weight lifter. The balloon was
filled with heated air, a system which in point of
economy and speed is a great improvement on the
usual method of charging with coal-gas. The
manner of filling is extremely simple. A short
underground channel is dug, one end thereof
having an opening under the balloon; at the
other end an attendant feeds a fire, which is lit in
the tunnel, with naphtha, of which he throws in a
tumblerful every minute or two. The huge
balloon, which, when proceedings begin, looks
like a mere heap of rags, rapidly expands and soon
begins to rise, swaying about impatient of re-
straint. The day was most unpropitious for
an ascent, for a strong northerly wind blew
too much coastward to suggest a safe de-
scent. Ere the balloon had been fully inflated
one of the attendant Tassells announced that
probably Miss Van Tassell would make an ascent,
but if she did not—“ Well, there was somebody
else who would.” ’ However, the expectant multi-
tudes were not kept long in suspense, as the gritty
little woman soon appeared and was carried oft
heavenwards performing gymnastic tricks on a
trapeze-bar attached to the bottom of the para-
chute, encouraged on her way by hurrahs from the
spectators, and from the Aquarium’s manager,
Mr. Wyburd, who was heard to let off a sigh of
relief, like the escape of the exhaust air from a
gas-engine, at this successful denouement, after
his many disappointments. Miss Van Tassell,
after getting a good view of Wayerley cemetery,
dropped safely to earth about a mile to the South
in the direction of Coogee, none the worse for her
trip, and was greeted with great enthusiasm on
her return (in a cab) to the Aquarium by a large
number of persons who will roll up cheerfully
next time on the off-chance of seeing as much of
her as can be gathered up with a dustpan brought
back in a coffin.
** * »
“Hands Across the Sea,” a job lot of
damaged claptrap concluding with a verse, came
back to Melbourne Royal on Saturday night,, after
a prolonged trip around the Southern Hemis-
phere for the benefit of its health. In the interim
Mr. Charles Warner has added three hundred and
twenty-six “dear boys” and seventy-nine “dear
old boys” to his original conception. He has
likewise acquired a dangerous propensity for
punching his male coadjutors in the spine, or get-
ting their heads in chancery when he wants to
gurgle worse than usual. Otherwise Mr. Warner’s
performance of Jack Dudley is about the same as
last time, and his total result leaves much to be
thankful for. Miss Grade Warner —for whom the
daily press holds a special brief with prospects of
numerous “refreshers” —plays the leading girl-
part in a manner sufficiently sweet and grace-
ful to please most people and to paralyse
the rest. The advance this fortunate blossom
has made in the acting way can be easily per-
ceived through opera glasses, but her fresh young
voice still falls faintly on the ear like the streams
of a lute proceeding from a house across the way.
Mr. George Walton puts plenty of humour into
Elton’s old part, without being the chief pillar of
the show as the former fellow was, while Miss
Williamson is an imposing change in the right
direction. Captain de Burgh, too, has especial
qualifications for running the Union Jack up a
clothes-line, and looking as though Britons never
would be slaves if they could help it. In short,
there is nothing seriously the matter with “Hands
Across the Sea,” except the dialogue, and the
situations, and the overwhelming gasp of Charles
Warner. The drama was received with a fearful
ebullition of gallery joy on Saturday, and fully
deserves as long a run as it can get.
¥(?
At the Opera House there is a growing
tendency to yearn for something fresh from Mr.
Bracy's Opera Company. ‘ ‘ Beggar Student ”
began to exhibit symptoms of decay shortly after
resurrection; so “The Sultan of Maker ” was
dragged forth again in all his Eastern splendour
on Saturday. The gilded impostor will be merci-
fully removed before he can materially increase
the death-rate. He will be overtaken by
“Nnnesis”on March Ist. This aged burlesque
is to be produced on a scale of great Magnificence
with a large M.
*- -;)'=■ *- -;K-
A horrid vacuum has taken temporary
possession of the Alexandra, and an expectant
populace is evidently saving up for “ Robbery
under Arms.” Arrangements for the production
of Mr. Dampier’s new drama are complete, with
the possible exception of a dawg which had not
been secured at time of going to press. There
may be trouble come of that dawg, because the
management boldly advertised for the ugliest one
in Melbourne. The question is, can anyone seize
Sir Bingey Jumbybun without a warrant, while
the Habeas Corpus Act is in force ? A lot of
leading citizens have to be kept on the chain until
Dampier gets his dawg.
*• -*- *
Frank Lincoln’s merry time is to finish
on Saturday, after which the voice of the man
who had his hair cut will be heard in the
Athenaeum no more. The St. George’s Hall show
contains a new and overwhelming attraction in
Sophie,Harris, Jun-Gun is in great feather at the
Waxworks, the Cyclorama is still assisted by old
Jeremiah, who chased Napoleon’s carriage off the
Battle of Waterloo, and the Boston Ideal Com-
pany appear to have caught on a bit at the
Victoria.
* * Us W-
“ Two nights in Rome ” is just finishing a
moderate fortnight’s business at the Princess’s.
The drama hasn’t sufficient strength in the middle
of it to do any real good, but the first act will
always give an emotional actress a chance to
splash at benefit matinees. On Saturday the
lovely Mrs. Brown-Potter will die of consumption
for Kyrle Bellew in that sickly old chestnut,
“Camille.” There are several versions of “La
Dame aux Camelias,” and Mrs. Brown-Potter’s is
understood to be the spiciest version going. In
next issue will appear full particulars of Mrs.
Brown-Potter's beauty, or as much of it as is
apparent behind the footlights. Also, a true and
faithful account of whether she can act worth fifty
columns of preliminary puff in the Melbourne
papers. But as it seems a waste of time to call
her by two names tied together, she will be
generally described as Mrs. Potter when not re-
ferred to as Mrs. Brown. Furthermore, The
Bulletin has reserved to itself all the colonial
rights for calling this delightful visitation Mrs.
Brown-Potter if necessary.
vfc vfc
Mr. Walter Besant has published a satiri-
cal continuation to Ibsen’s “Doll’s House,” re-
presenting that the Doll goes in largely for free
love, while her deserted nuisance of a husband
dies of rum.
Bracy, of Solomon and Bracy’s Opera
Company, told a South Australian resident that
hearing of the religious feeling of the Adelaide
people, he had instructed his chorus girls to have
their skirts lowered six inches. Bracy is a bad
judge of human nature. “ Piety ” and pruriency
being only different phases of the same emotion,
he should have taken six inches off.),
** * »
The Bulletin is asked to make known
the fact that a certain piano-making London firm
are furnishing the instruments which Sir Charles
Halle is bringing to Australia. In reference to
this calm request we need only remark that The
Bulletin’s advertising-rates can be ascertained by
writing to the manager or making personal appli-
cation to our nice, gentlemanly, well-barbered
counter-clerk.
* * *
From an article on “ Handsome Men ” in
N.Y. Sun
In many cases the handsomest men do not care for the
admiration of women. Many people will remember the
extraordinary period of actor-worship, which began with
the success of the late H. J. Montague and culminated in
the fulsome and hysterical admiration for that beefy and
puffy personage, George Rignold. Both Montague and
Rignold were men of unusual and notable physical
attractions, but either of them preferred a game of
billiards or a drive or a walk with male companions to
association with the other sex. Montague was a remark-
ably symmetrical and attractive specimen of mankind. He
had regular features, a graceful figure, and his pursuit by
women was as remarkable as it was notorious. I knew
him pretty well, but never in my life heard him mention
a woman’s name in any other than the most casual
fashion. When he died, hundreds and hundreds
of letters were found in a trunk and were burned
unopened by Lester Wallack. Montague’s mail was often
freighted with letters evidently from some feminine
sources, which he burned without reading. The man
Damala, who recently died in Paris, had the two most
prominent and talked-about women in all Paris—Bern-
hardt and Hading—almost insane over him for several
years, and during all that time he spent from £4OOO to
£lO,OOO a year, I do not wish to cast any unjust reflec-
tions upon a deceased “ masher” of Mr. Damala’s import-
ance. I saw him several times in Paris, and he was in-
variably one of the most stared-at men in the park. He
rolled his eyes around after the fashion of a woman, but
he had a face of the pure Greek type, and a suavity of
manner which enabled him to tide over many rocky
points of a life of curious ups and downs.
At Poverty Point.
Frank Lincoln has been interviewed by his.manager for
a Melbourne paper. He says Australian women are con-
spicuous for their form, New Zealand women for their
health, and Tasmanian women for their complexion. He
envied male Tasmanians who lived under such a pink and
white tyranny. It was a combination of lily and peach.
This is Lincoln sweetness long drawn out. The Tas-
manian fairies must have laughed at all his wheezes, sent
him flowers and slippers, and seen him tearfully off at the
train.
Mr. Flynn, the father of General Mite, is seriously in-
disposed. The trouble is said to be brain-fever.
Tills year’s Era almanac contains a series of uninten-
tional slips made by well-known actors and actresses, con-
tributed by themselves. The intentional slips of some
well-known actresses would be interesting reading.—Ex.
Madame Bentami has gone to England.
A Melbourne critic declares his desire to be “ a corn
under Pattie Browne’s dainty foot.” She’d cut him in
any case.
J. L. Toole will probably play an American season after
leaving Australia.
Marie De Grey, now residing with her husband, an
officer in the Imperial service, in India, intends to tour
there professionally.
Miss Kate Denison, who created a most favourable im-
pression in Sydney musical circles, some little time ago, is
a daughter of Mr. W. F. Stock, M.P., of Adelaide.
Now that there is a move in Sydney to establish a
theatrical benevolent fund, it is interesting to know that
Henry Edwards, of the Fauntleroy Co., was treasurer of
the Melbourne theatrical benevolent fund 30 years ago.
G. L. Goodman and others are bestirring themselves to
form a branch of the Dramatic Benevolent Fund in
Sydney.
A very much-undressed lady was hissed out of a Strand
theatre lately by the occupants of the gallery. The
masses, in spite of the declarations of the Tories to the
contrary, are the only custodians of national decency.
“May I come in, St. Peter?” “And who are you?’’
“My name is Patti—Adelina Andsoforth Patti.” “Are
you sure you are ready to come in—and stay ?” “Quite
■ sure.” “ But we give no return tickets in case you wish
to go out for awhile.” “But I shall not wish to go out.
Why should I wish to do so?” “ Well, I didn’t know but
what you might want to drop down to earth again for ye
another farewell tour.” — Ambr.
Maccabe soon returns to Sydney from New Zealand.
We are informed by a correspondent that the Hall of
Science, late Nugget Theatre, late Polytechnic, was,
according to the, Melbourne Post of 17th September, ’64,
opened by Mr. and Mrs. George Case on September 9 of
that year,
A number of friends of the late James Allison lately met
at Her Majesty’s Hotel, Sydney, to raise funds for the
support of the two orphaned children. George Rignold
occupied the chair, and in a short time the sum of £2OO
was raised, headed by a cheque for £lOO from Mr. H.
Gleeson.
Mr. “Bill” Rignold and his daughter have left Eng*
land in the Iberia for Australia.
Aeronaut Williams solicits donations on account of the
expense of his aerial feat. “Flying kites” pays better
than inflating balloons.
Mr. Gladstone, now playing a down-trodden worm of a
British farmer with the Fauntleroy company, played
with G. V. Brooke over 30 years ago.
In order to test the legality of Sunday concerts, infor-
mation, under an act of George 111., has been parsonically
laid against John Solomon, of the Sydney Criterion, for
having taken money in return for music, on September 15
last.
At a meeting of the friends of the late James Allison,
held in the Princess’ Theatre, Melbourne, Mr. Pollock
offered to adopt the orphan girl. The meeting considered
that the boy should be sent to a good school for three
years and then apprenticed to a trade. A subscription-
iist was opened to which Mr. Dampier subscribed £5 ss.
A young Australian actor, Mr. Charles Palmer, opens in
“Hans the Boatman” at Sydney Gaiety on Saturday
next. The genial Gunther, now landlord of the Brisbane
Caf6, George-street, is managing. Palmer is bound to be
worth seeing once, anyhow.
Influenza is giving the poor British “ understudy ” a
big show. Fanny Robina, attacked with it, was replaced
by Violet Ellicott in London Her Majesty’s pantomime.
“ Ginger ” Clarke, erst; of Sydney, helped to lend an air
of respectability to Myra Kemble’s “Man and Woman”
matin6e at the London Criterion.
In “ Ruy Bias” at London Gaiety a pas de quatre has
lately been introduced wherein Letty Lind and Fred
Storey are in night-gear, and Nelly Barren and Fred
Leslie are attired as sweeps. It fetches them.
To those “ in the know ” it must be funny to note how a
certain smart and enterprising actress has earwigged
certain pseudo Sydney critics.
Two late issues of Melbourne Table Talk contain four
and a-half columns concerning the lives ai.d loves of Miss
Edith Blande, the actress, and Mr. Austin Brevet On, her
husband, the S.M. Herald's theatrical critic. The latter
is described as a “blushing, blue-eyed, fair-haired, slim,
tall, young, spirited journalist,” who first made his name
and fame by organising “cat, dog, rabbit, pigeon and
poultry shows,” and speculat on in theatre-tickets in
Liv erpool, and then the writer asserts that his critique of
“ Little Lord Fauntleroy” was “ equal to anything he lias
done on the London Press.” We have seen Mr. Brercton
and we have read the critique.
Rip Van Winkle has been impersonated by five actors
only in Australia—Jefferson, Howe, J. L. Hall, and
M‘Wade and Williamson.
At a meeting in Melbourne of Mr. Julius Siede’si friends
over £lOO were subscribed, It was shown by his hooks
that during his professional life of over 30 years in Vic-
toria, Mr. Siede had given his gratuitous services as con-
ductor over WOO times. A mistake in figures surely,
otherwise it means something over 133 times a year.
The original grant in 1824 to the A.A.
Company was 250,000 acres at Liverpool Plains,
310,000 acres at the Peel River and 440,000 acres at
Port Stephens.
Mr. Nelson P. Whitelocke, who was
appointed General Secretary of the United
Licensed Victuallers’ Association of N.S. Wales
in October last, has voluntarily resigned his position
and re-enters active press life at Broken-hill.
We expect to hear within a week from
date of the resurrection of old Alexander Berry,
the N.S.W. millionaire. Berry’s North Shore
land is worth now £1,500,000, “ yet,” says a pro-
minent Single-taxer, “if the nation had its due,
all that Berry’s executor would get out of the
whole estate would be £1 14s. 6d.
A Melbourne evening paper sent a boy of
15 to report the Fisher-Miller medical malpractice
case at Kyneton (Vic). It would be interesting
to know if the proprietors of that boy-labor
evening paper explained to their juvenile delegate
before he left town all that medical malpractice
meant socially, physiologically and anatomically.
We may also ask casual-like, what would any
doctor think—and do —were he interviewed on
such a case by a boy of 15 ?
The “ Stockwhip,” a new Brisbane secular
paper edited by Wallace Nelson, now lecturing in
Sydney, says
“ Mrs. Besant is an able woman, hut exceedingly,
perhaps abnormally, emotional. This explains both her
Theosophy and her Socialism. Her strong sympathy with
the poor makes her a Socialist, and her horror of annihila-
tion makes her a Theosophist. Her heart is too big for
her head. For all that, she is a fine woman, and her
devotion to truth and liberty will never permit her to go
far astray.”
Dear Bulletin, —In the years ’65-’66 !•
was on the Okarita goldfield, N.Z. ; but as the
field was about played out, all the men left, pro-
mising to send a steamer from Hokitika for their
wives and children. I was one of the kids, but
the oldest of the lot. The only man left was the
harbour-master. After a week or two the Bruce
turned up and shipped us all for Hokitika. We
made a start, but got stuck on the bar three times,
and when at last we got out to sea it was only to
find that the bumping had made the ship leak so
badly that she had to be beached for repairs at
the first possible spot, which happened to be a
small sheltered bay, then unnamed. We were
there about a fortnight, and in order to pass
the time the passengers got up picnics, etc.
During one of these excursions, about a mile inland
we came across a very old ship. Her style of
build was that of about a hundred years ago.
She was high and dry amongst the rooks, and she
had a tall tree growing through her about the spot
her mainmast would have been. The captain and
crew were of opinion that she was of Dutch build,
and at least a century old judging from the size of
the tree. Has anything ever been found out about
this old ship ?—Yours, Non.
The N.S.W. Supreme Court judges have
lately, for some reason or other, discontinued the use
of “the oat.” However, Acting-Judge Gibson, a
youthful lawyer who has lately clambefed on to
the general sessions bench for a term, and has,
after the fashion of most youths under similar
circumstances been using all the weapons in his
armoury, is now making up for the deficiencies of
his seniors in the higher court. His Temporary
Honor has imposed some colossal sentences and
among other things ’ has ordered one James
Brailey’s back to be skinned by the lash-
wielded, it may be remarked, by one of the very
warders to whom is entrusted the moral refor-
mation of prisoners of the Crown. Now,
James Brailey’s crime is described as an “ un-
natural ” offence —that is, an offence outside
nature, and therefore outside mental responsi-
bility—an offence from which the ordinary normal,
natural, sane, but conventionally-immoral man,
who, though he might covet even to violence his
neighbour’s wife or wealth, would revolt. There
are but few men, good or bad, who have not in
their time illicitly coveted a certain woman, or
have not been strongly tempted to acquire money
by dishonourable and even illegal means ; but then
such impulses are natural and understandable by
all men, for the impulses on which they are
founded spring from those passions which havebeen
the mainspring of all human action since time
began and will only die with the extinction of man-
kind. But where is the man who understands, who
experiences, who has even ever bad a glimpse of,
the motives which prompt unfortunates of the
Brailey class to their loathsome deeds? Does
acting-judge Gibson expect to cure the sexual
monomaniac by tearing off his skin and breaking
down his nervous system? Does he expect to
deter the man with a brain-kink from which
spring irresistible impulses by handing him
over to the torturer who for the last hundred
years has fattened the ants on Australian soil
with scraps of human flesh, and sated the thirst
of the gaol-blowflies gouts of human
blood? “I object to the lash,” says
Premier Parkes, “because it is an unequal
punishment.” Judged from his context, Premier
Parkes, when he said the lash was “an
unequal punishment ” meant that it was a physi-
cally-unequal punishment—that it was as mere
toothache to one man’s body and as cancer to
another man’s soul. That such is the case is
shown by a remark made in the Supreme Court of
N.S. Wales only last week by a convicted prisoner :
“As much as you like in lashes, your Honor, as
little as you can in years but Premier Parkes
might also have said that the lash was a socially-
unequal punishment. ;For, as The Bulletin has
often said, no little heap of broadcloth clothes was
ever seen piled up beside a set of British triangles.
The lash is an instrument to tear the flesh off the
back of the poor man—the man in moleskins and
Crimean shirt. Every poor man does not got the
lash, but,then no rch man ever gets it.


WOLFE’S SCHNAPPS!
£l2OO a year given away in £1 Orders
Is superseding all other spirits.
His Trip “Home.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
I.
He looked at her.
Assuredly, from one point of view, and her own
point of view, there was no fault to be found in
her.
As she lay back there in the lounge, gazing out
of the open, trellised window, with a vague and
dreamy contentment in her eyes and on her face,
that made her seem positively kind and good, he
realised and summed her up to himself.
She was the perfection of civilised self-indul-
gence, and her feelings towards him were the
supreme and crowning sensation of it. Yes, all
her little soul was- in her senses, and it was only
his boyish imagination that had ever imagined it
otherwise. He had thought this any time these
two years. Now he was sure —perfectly sure of it.
She had at last got everything which she wanted,
himself included. And her complete and easy
happiness gave her a certain poetry and truth
which he recognised as the only truth and poetry
which she had ever possessed.
But how thin and common it was at heart! How
utterly a thing of knots and ribbons and pretty
pigments ! How wearisome to anyone who lived
for something more than trifles and the sheerest
self-satisfaction!
She lay with one foot on the other knee, and
the roundness of the black silk stockings, with
their delicate golden clocks and the dainty, black,
gold threaded shoes, in which every now and then
she very gently contracted and thrust out her toes
like a purring cat its claws, came upon him as a
sort of typical image of her, and made his lips curl
cruelly.
The thought occurred to him of the Other One
away in Australia—of the girl he loved and who
loved him—of the girl of imperious trusts and
tendernesses who demanded of him, for herself
and for others, the best that was in him. Her
turn of vengeance was coming.
His plan had worked with astonishing success.
He had satisfied himself for ever on this point.
Now he would ring down the curtain in the
jomedy.
11. *
He leant forward, looking at her with a smiling
countenance.
He called her by her full name—ironically ap-
preciating the tawdry element in it.
“ Irene ! ”
She slowly turned her closing eyes to his, letting
her left hand, which rested in the side of the chair,
incline a little with her head, and smiled at him.
“ I took my ticket by the Orient boat this morn-
ing,” he said.
“Well, Willie?”
“She sails the day after to-morrow.”
“ What do you mean ? ”
“Why, that I am going in her.”
“ What do you mean ? ”
Her eyes had rounded gently with astonishment,
but as yet she had not the least alarm.
“ Oh,”*he said, “ only just what I say.”
‘ ‘ But I do not understand you. ”
There was a pause.
“ I,” she said, “ don’t want to go to Australia—
not in the least.”
“ You,” lie replied, still smiling, “ can do
exactly as you please. You are free. And so am
I, and I am going to Sydney by the Orizaba on
Thursday, if things happen as I expect. I live in
Sydney, you know.”
She began to laugh.
She thought he was trying to tease her.
“ And what do you want to go to Sydney for ?”
she asked. “ Haven’t you had enough of it? ”
“ I want to go to Sydney to get married, and I
expect that I shall live there * for the term of my
natural life.’ ”
“ You are joking,” she said, suddenly serious,
and regarding him more fixedly.
He rose with a sardonic grin.
“ Irene,” he laid, his hands on his hips, his
head bent down, his eyes holding hers, “ you have
made a mistake. I have had enough of London.
That is why I am going back to Sydney.”
“But . . .” she murmured.
“ And it is not only London that I have had
enough of, but of a person who lives there. And
you are that person.”
Her mouth opened, but no sound proceeded
from it.
He had effectively startled her.
Her hands fell upon her lap and she lay almost
helpless. She was frightened.
The hard, scornful indifference of his fact
frightened her. She saw that he was in earnest—
that it was not a joke. And this sudden and
utterly unexpected ruin of her happiness paralysed
her.
But her astonishment had not ceased. It had
rather grown. She comprehended nothing.
He burst out laughing, for her expression struck
him as ludicrous. Then, drawing the chair up close
to him, he sat down again and spoke to her.
111.
“Listen,” he said, raising his finger, “ I have a
little story to tell you.”
He paused for a moment.
When he began speaking it was with the simple
serious tone of one who clothes some vital truth
under a seini-fictional guise.
“There were once,” he said, “two people—a
girl and a boy. The girl was the elder, and in
many ways she was also the wiser and more ex-
perienced. As children they lived together. Later
on they were separated. Their education, which
was an elaborate one, necessitated it. They some-
times thought of one another, and occasionally
they met. It is not perhaps too much to say that
as the boy developed into a young man, he grew to
love the girl and think of his future life in con-
nection with hers. I cannot tell but what the
same idea had, in some vague shape or other,
occurred to her. ”
She acquiesced silently.
“ Well, so things went on till their education was
almost finished. She was in Germany—he in
London. Their parents were not rich. They
were professional people who lived up to, and even
a little over, their income. The young man had
always understood that he was to make his own
living, and he had been trained for several years
for the Indian Civil Service. In reality, from a
pretty early date, he had felt a strong inclination
towards writing. He had written little stories,
some of which had been published in obscure maga-
zines.- The young woman knew all about this.
She had read the stories first. She had listened
to his talks and hopes and dreams. She had
never said she believed in them. On the con-
trary, though they had pleased her, she had
always tacitly taken them as a mere side-issue to
him—as an ‘ accomplishment ’— as a diversion in
the serious business of his career.”
He paused and looked away.
“ I well remember,” he said, in a low tone, “ the
last time they mean the last time they
Were really together. They had been separated
for over a year. He had changed much. He was
utterly dissatisfied and unsettled. He loathed the
idea of India and a career as a civil servant
there. He wanted to write a novel. He wanted
to devote himself to literature. He believed that
was what he was meant for. His people were all
against him ; and so were hers. Everyone was
against him. They talked together —he and she.
He told her about his ideas and ambitions. It
was not her fault that he did not tell her every-
thing, But there was no need. She knew it.
By heaven,” he exclaimed, “ if ever a lad loved a
girl, or a man a woman, whom he longed to have
as the embodiment of all that was best in him, he
loved her !”
She shrank from his sudden repellant gaze, and
he looked away again as he continued.
“ Well, she said nothing. She remained enig-
matical —attracting him with little, delicate, de-
lightful touches and provocations, but persistently
keeping an impassable barrier between them. She
liked him —perhaps even she loved him a little.
Sometimes she would have let him take her in his
arms and kiss her, but she knew what that meant.
It meant passion and loss of self-control. It
meant throwing in her lot with his. It meant
becoming first his betrothed and then his wife.
He was so vehement—so imprudent. And so they
parted, and nothing had happened.”
He paused once more.
“Events followed fast then,” he said. “He
failed in his exam.—failed badly. He was fifty-
third or fourth—a whole league off the successful
twenty. And, as it was the first failure of his
life, it was a very bitter one. His people all
NECESSITY THE MOTHER OE INVENTION.
SWAGSMAN: “IF WE STRETCHED A LINE FROM THE FENCE TO THAT TREE
WE COULD GET ANY AMOUNT OF WATCHES OFF THE COVES AS
GOT DROWNED IN THE FLOOD.”
turned on him. He was to have one more chance
next year, and no more. His father insisted
brutally on his devotion to his work at the cram-
mer’s—seized all his books, his little library of
poetry and prose, which constituted to him his
inner and only real life, and locked it up. He
even threatened to destroy it. A week or so later,
over at Dresden, the young woman received a
startling letter from him. He had left home. He
was to have £lOO or so of his own by his uncle’s
will on coming of age, and he had wrung this out
of his parents now, and would trouble them no
more. He was writing a novel, and trying to get
work on the newspapers. ”
He looked at her again.
“You know,” he said, “the letter of reply
which she wrote him. It was a perfect sample of
sympathetic non-committal. She wished the novel
every success, but bade him be careful to keep his
peculiar ‘ideas,’ his religious and social and artistic
ideas, out of it. He was so heterodox in every-
thing, and it would only shock people, and ruin
the book. So ‘ they all ’ had told her, and so she
thought herself. But if ever a girl said to a man :
‘ If you succeed, I will give myself up to you,’ that
girl said so there to him, and she knew it, and
knew that he knew it, too.”
“But,” he went on, “he did«’< succeed. She
was quite right. She understood his public far
better than ho did himself. He put his ‘ atheism,’
and‘socialism,’and ‘ realism ’ into his book, and
spent his last £2O in bringing it out, and the
* respectacle ’ newspapers all called it ‘ impious ’
and ‘obscene,’ and the circulating libraries
promptly boycotted him, and in less than a month
he stood with £llss. 7d. between him and starva-
tion, his literary career hopelessly damned at the
very start, and his one small, secure, journalistic
market cut off from him by the ‘ scruples ’ of a
sanctified smug of an editorial part-proprietor.
In one word, London and England were too hot
for him. A sudden and unexpected chance pre-
sented itself, and barely three months after his
career as a writer had begun, he crept away out
of the country—in the words of his exasperated
parent—an abject failure and disgrace !
IV.
His speech had become animated, but it never
lost its low, suppressed tone, and his eyes, gleam-
ing dangerously, showed no more intense emotion
than a sort of impartial irony.
“ Before he went,” he said, “he wrote several
letters to the girl. He let himself go. He told
her all his suffering and his love. He asked her
to love him and be true to him and help him to be
true to himself, and added, in his presumptuous
way, that before five years were over, he would yet
win, and lash back all these curs yelping to their
kennels. But he was not quite a fool, and none of
these letters went. He felt her power. He re-
spected her social demands. And also his heart
was too sore and feeble to stand that last blow of
all —that soft, deliberate thrust back of her beauti-
ful, pitiless, fingers. The letter he did send was
quite different. At the utmost it raised a plea for
a few years’ grace—two years—three years. That
was all. It was quite indirect There was
nothing compromising about it. Nothing what-
ever. ”
He paused.
“ In Australia, in Melbourne,” he said, “ the
young man began more diffidently. He let
literature alone. He set himself to the task of
feeding and clothing himself, and he was thrashed
to death for a year in the shafts of the lower
journalism. Then came his chance. He leaped
at it and grasped it. Sydney was his Mexico. It
was in the second year of his absence that he was
bold enough to write to the girl and ask her to
marry him. He knew her well enough to know
that he ought to state his worldly qualifications.
They were about these. He was a leader-writer
on the staff of one of the daily papers, was making
at the rate of about £4OO a year, had every pros-
pect of making another extra hundred the next
year, and so on up to £7OO or even £800; was
creating, moreover, a bit of a name for himself as
a recognised writer of fiction and criticism, also
with happy and extending prospects, and had set
to work on another novel. ”
“But here,” he said, “comes a digression—an
important digression—Another Girl!”
Their eyes met again, and he looked away,
smiling slightly.
“ I needn’t describe her much,” he said. “It is
enough to say that she was very different from the
first. She was younger than he was —with brown,
vehement eyes and flushing cheeks, and, as she
was one of four sisters, she taught music. I never
heard a girl who played a certain style of music
better than she did. She was really great at it.
And her ideas on things were striking. They
were rather crude, you know, but striking. The
young man felt all this, and it attracted him.
They became friends something more than
acquaintances. You understand? And, presently,
somehow or other, lie glided into the confidential
with her, and, when he found out that she liked
his little tales and criticisms and leaders, and had
her own views of them, which were pretty well
summed up in the conviction that he ought to do
something bigger and better, why, he was weak
enough to tell her, bit by bit and at last altogether,
the story of his ‘literary career’ and his aspira-
tions and ambitions. And he even —this may
seem weaker still or stupider still, as you like to
take it —he even told her about the other girl in
England.”
“ I am sure !” murmured Irene, who had
gradually regained the use of her tongue. “ lam
much obliged.”
“ Well,” he proceeded, “to return. The girl in
England wrote him the prettiest letter imaginable.
It was neither yes nor no. It simply emphasized
the fact that ‘ Australia ’ was a horrid place, a
dreadful long way off, the home of convicts and
bushrangers and kangaroos, and all that, and thai
£4OO a year, especially in journalism, was scarcely
a satisfactory compensation therefor, and that on
the whole she would stay where she was. He was
weak enough, or stupid enough, or both to show
this letter to the other girl and ask her advice
about it, and her advice about it was to write
again. She herself was just going away. Shi
was going up to Queensland with what we call in
Australia a ‘ squatter’s ’ family—the family of a
big sheep-owner—as governess, though she was
doing very well with the music, and her mother
and her sisters were all in tears about her leaving
them. He also remonstrated a little, but with no
avail. So just after he said good-bye to her and saw
her off, he sat down and wrote again to the girl in
England. In three months he received her
answer. It was straight no this time. She * would
rather die than go out to Australia.’ The conclu-
sion was milder. It said nothing, but it implied a
good deal. If he would come to England and if
he could make a success there, why, things might
be different. And it is on record that that young
man entertained this idea in a serious manner and
wrote to that effect.”
He paused once more,
“But behold,” he said, “the joys of loving girls
who never compromise themselves ! In reply to
this letter he received a communication which was
a work of art. Put simply, it amounted to this.
That girl in England had gone and married
another man, and the cheerful fact that he was
excessively good and kind and loved her beyond
expression, was, so to say, completed—consum-
mated by the second fact that he was old enough
to be her father (or grandfather), was rich, and
had a liver so constituted as to preclude any hopes
of a protracted existence—hah !”
He flung up his hand with a gesture of disgust.
y.
Site lay staring at him, once more frightened,
dimly conscious of the drift things were taking.
“Let us pass by three years or so,” he said,
“ during which that young man was periodically
made aware, in the sweetest and cleverest manner
imaginable, of the quiet, happy home-life of that
girl in England, the only blight on which was the
ever-growing dread of the ultimatum of the con-
jugal liver. He was able to state its condition
with some accuracy, and to contemplate the period
when a flow of serous matter into the heart should
bring that quiet, happy home-life to an abrupt
termination. Yet it is once more on record that
that portion of the correspondence for which he is
responsible, though tinged with a certain degree
of irony, was not of an angry or scornful, or vin-
dictive character. Her confident anticipation that
he ‘ would be above all vulgar rancour ’ had been
‘ justified.’ ”
He again reflected for a moment.
“ At the end of these three years," ne said,
“ two events happened. The first was the publi-
cation in England of that young man’s second
novel, and the astonishing success which it had.
It might almost be called a furore. He was totally
unable to keep pace with the demands of pub-
lishers and public. Fifteen editions of his first
novel were a mere stop-gap. All his fictional work,
done out in Australia among the convicts and
bushrangers and kangaroos and all that, was
reprinted again and again. He had won a pro-
digious vogue, such as is won every four or five
years by some lucky novelist, and the sums of
money that rolled in upon him fairly staggered
him. The second event was the presentation of
the ultimatum of the conjugal liver. Almost by
the same post as the decisive missive from his
publisher ini London, which insisted on the neces-
sity of his appearance in the metropolis to com-
pletely overhaul their business relations, he
received one of the exquisite epistolatary art-
compositions which were the delight of his
later existence. The husband was indeed dead,
and the lady was free, wealthy and willing.
How well she knew the sweet, keen thrills of de-
light which her congratulation as to his ‘ success,
his amazing and overwhelming success,’ would give
to that young man at the barbaric Antipodes!
She spoke with no uncertain voice now ! She
owned her loneliness, her tedium, even her long-
ing. She spoke of the long trial of the last years
of her married life. What a letter ! It was
rapturous ! It was divine ! Thei’e was the little
spark in it, too —the touch of lambent flame —the
quiver of long-repressed and aching passion ! Oh,
ye gods! ”
He turned his face to her, flashing with cruelty
and exultancy.
He rose to his feet again, and towered up over
her, where she lay crouched and contracted, her
eyes staring fascinated out of her large white face,
ready to receive the lashes of his scorn and hate on
her delicate, shrinking flesh.
“ I came to you, Rene,” he said, “ I found you
just as I thought. You were less cautious than of
old, my dear. You would not compromise your-
self to your world. No; but you compromised
yourself readily enough to me. It is six months
since your husband died. It was to be another
six months till you and I were married. All was
to be done in order. Yonr Social God was to be
placated. Your ciirsbd, little, petty, cackling
clique—your mouthing, mewing London “set”—
was not to have a word against you. But mean-
time the demands of . , . ”
He raised his hands at her with curving con-
vulsive fingers.
“Ah,” he cried, “you craven vampire! you
blood-sucker of my boyhood’s faith and hope
and love ! I have struck you down at last ! I
have caught you and ripped your wings and
ground you squealing under my heel! ”
She was crying out in terror of his violence—a
hard, discordant cry in one protracted note, her
eyes like those of a man at the triangles who
works round and watches the shrieking approach
of the gathered lashes. He made a prodigious
effort for self-restraint, and sat down in silence with
folded arms in the chair.
There was a long silence.
“You needn’t be afraid,” he said in a quiet
voice, “I won’t strike you—l won’t hurt you. I
despise you too much. I won’t even look at you
now any more. I loathe you too much. I have
worked out my vengeance on you, and it suffices.
You, who have played with fire all your life and
never been burned, have felt the red-hot brand
held to your brow as they held it to the brow of
the other harlots ages ago. You, who have played
with pitch in kid gloves and kept your hands
clean, have been tarred and feathered all over
like the spiritual vagabond and rogue that you
are ! I think that is enough.”
He rose calmly.
“ Good-bye,” he said.
She lay quite still ; staring at him as before, her
face gone grey and old and petrified.
She was speechless. Her tongue could not stir.
Her lips could not move.
As for him, he had quite recovered himself, and
went out of the room with a smiling indifference,
the sunshine after that short storm-cloud of
frenzy.
His trip “home” had been accomplished suc-
cessfully in every respect.
FRANCIS ADAMS.


d
Go
ing
WCelebrated
m
ť
'M™B>L „
ro/mpoßT*
jBofg
iND.i
W'H 0
i C?jg>^>Ho4
Newnes, of Tit Bits, is finding the money
for Pall Mall Stead’s Review of Reviews.
Pierre Douar, who escaped from Pent-
ridge Gaol, strongly objected to Douar’d labour.
BUGGIES, BUCKBOARDS,
—AKD—
VICTORIAS,
A< MANUFACTURERS’ PRICES.
Send for Catalogues and Prices to
THE F. B. WHEELER CO.,
265 Clarence Street. SYDNEY.
Personal Items.
Henniker Heaton has been visiting China.
Lord Salisbury contemplates the accept-
ance of a dukedom.
“ Sir ” Charles Lilley ! Why doesn’t he
get rid of the prefix ?
Another hautograph ! Lord ’Opetoun has
written to Sir ’Enery Parkes.
Editor Curnow, of the S.M. Herald, who
is unwell, goes for a six months’ holiday.
Pritchard Morgan’s latest is the promotion
of a Welsh grocery-company, capital, £150,000.
Jefferson Davis leaves debts amounting to
£lO,OOO, and a family in straitened circumstances.
The Prince of Wales only won £2OO on
the turf in stakes last year. His retirement is re-
p irted.
E. H. Taylor, the absconding insolvent,
is to be examined in bankruptcy at Sydney on sth
March.
W. E. Gladstone has been writing a review
of 19th century poetry, and doesn’t once mention
Parkes.
It is asserted that Woolner, the sculptor,
at one time did “hard graft” on the Australian
goldfields.
The Empress Augusta left her hopeful Im-
perial grandson £40,000 a year, also a large assort-
ment of castles.
J.. P. T. Caulfield, the “Boy” Politi-
cian, is 26 years old, and weighs nearly 15st.
Thus dieth his boyhood.
The official announcement of the engage-
ment of Albert Victor to his cousin, Mary of
Teck, is shortly expected.
It is understood that Mr. Abigail will
wait upon W. E. Gladstone and explain all about
that 80th birthday address.
Judge Roger Therry lived in the house
lately occupied by Dr. J. C. Cox, at the corner of
Hunter and Macquarie Streets, Sydney.
A very great statesman indeed confidenti-
ally told a reporter, the other day, that the Him-
perial hauthorities would probably make ’im a
Hearl.
The Duke of Manchester offered to enter-
tain John Burns while he was leading the Man-
chester gas-stokers’ strike. But John didn’t
“ bite.”
It is said that in his youth the Czar used
to drink two bottles of brandy and four of cham-
pagne daily, with intermediate sips of other
beverages.
The advertisement for an editor for a
Sydney evening newspaper is understood to refer
to the Echo. The veteran Mr. Frank Brewer
retires shortly.
“Triumphant Democracy ” Carnegie, in
his article on the “Duties of Wealth,” in the
North American Review, says, “The man who
dies rich, dies disgraced.”
A Melbourne paper says that Mr. A. Unwin,
Parkes’ private secretary, is “one of the soundest
poetical critics in Australia.” But he does not
criticise his master’s work.
Mr. William Williams, who was Mayor of
Melbourne in 1867, has presented his picture to
the Corporation. Mr. Williams was the fashion-
able coach-builder of his day.
Bolton S. Bird, Colonial Treasurer of
Tasmania, was a Wesleyan parson once upon a
time. He rose to become a Congregationalist,
but suddenly fell—to the level of a politician.
Editor Stead asks the public to read his
new venture, the Review of Reviews, as “a
Bible to discover the will of God and the duty
towards men.” Which smacks of religious mania.
It is said that Browning was once asked
the meaning of a certain passage in a poem of his.
“I cannot tell you for the life of me,” he said,
“you had better ask a member of the Browning
Society.”
A man named “ Carrington ” was men-
tioned in the Euston-Parke trial. Justice Haw-
kins and Sir Charles Russell “ regretted it,” and
it was “ arranged ” that no other names should be
mentioned.
Of the members of the first mixed Legis-
lative Council of Victoria there are but ten living,
whose united ages tot up 710 years, the oldest
being Molesworth at 84, and the youngest
Childers, 63.
Volunteer-Major Alfred Blannin, of Mel-
bourne, left £70,000 to be divided amongst his
three daughters, and provided in his will that,
should either marry a Roman Catholic, she should
forfeit her share.
Neville Blyth, brother of the S.A. Agent-
General, is deceased. When in business in Ade-
laide the brothers were never apart, and in Parlia-
ment they would refer to each other as “my
respected brother.”
Judges Boucaut and Bundey (S. A.)
are both enthusiastic yachtsmen. As for the
Chief Justice, his time is so fully occupied in con-
templating vice-royalty that he has no time for
mundane pleasures.
Sir George Grey, the veteran New Zealand
statesman, has never in all his life set foot in New
South Wales, but will visit the colony “in the
course of a few months.” For years and years he
has made a similar threat.
Said Premier Gillies, of Victoria, to a
Cornstalk, the other day : “ When you send men
over from Sydney to represent you, why don’t you
send fellows over who can drink ? ” Now, what on
earth did Premier Gillies mean ?
Brigand Stanley asked Raskin’s permis-
sion to import a pirated American edition of his
works. The reply was that “ Mr. Stanley had
much better not burden himself with stolen pro-
perty on his missionary expedition.”
The Lord’s anointed of Bavaria, King
Otto (“ Otto of Roses ” he is called), can’t be got
to enter a full bath. The unhappy lunatic refuses
to wash lower than his collar, though he occa-
sionally scrubs his hands in mistake for his feet.
Alexander Tolmer, who organised those
gold escorts in the old digging days which saved
South Australia from being depopulated, can still
be seen riding his steed in the Adelaide streets.
He has made a comfortable fortune in Barrier
stock.
The will of the late Vicar-General Dean
Fitzpatrick (R. 0.) has been proved in Melbourne
at £6Ol. As in life he gave every shilling he could
scrape to the building of St. Patrick’s Cathredal,
so in death he leaves the bulk of his small hoard
to the same fund.
A paragraph appears to the effect that
“John Strange Winter” refuses £5OOO for her
next shilling story. The Bulletin will undertake
to get three shilling stories—one from Robert
Louis Stevenson, one from Walter Besant and one
from Rider Haggard—for £5OOO.
James Macdonald, a New Zealand ex-
M.H.R., physically one of the biggest men in the
country, has been sent to gaol for using bad lan-
guage to the trustee of his bankrupt estate.
Macdonald said in C mrt that he was worth
£40,000 two years ago, and now had not a shilling
in the world.
The late General Logan, whose infant
days were spent in Sydney, was son of Capt-in
Logan of the 57th Regiment, Commandant at
Moretoa Bay, whose murder by the blacks in
1830, was instigated, it was said, by the convicts
in retaliation for his hideous cruelties. Under
Logan’s command the “ cat ” was in full swing.
The irrepressible Dr. Tanner, M.P., it is
said, was once an enthusiastic loyalist, but one
day, in the confusion of a mixed demonstration,
the doctor, who was crying for order for the
“National Anthem,” was ejected from the room
as a disturber of the peace. In his indignation he
joined the Nationalists, and has been a fire-eater
ever since.
“ Mr. Gossip (an Australian journalist)
claimed to have lost an important game in the
American Chess Congress on account of the an-
noyance caused him by being obliged to sit on too
low a chair. The Toronto Mail cruelly suggests
that at Breslau he must have sat on 'he floor !”
This is impossible. How could a*man who sat on
the floor get so completely “ in the soup? ”
Phil. Robinson’s debts consist of £2OOO,
including £9OO alimony due to his wife. H' s
assets consist of a harbour-scheme share, which
may or may not yet be worth at so ne
remote and unstated period, and fifty £1 shares
in a Victorian gold-mining company. Had he
applied to us we could have “loaned him a
hair-trunk full of scrip to make his schedule look
respectable.
Arthur Burns, of Mosgiel, Otago, N.Z.
who started the celebrated Mosgiel woollen ft c
tory, is a grand-nephew of the Ayrshire poet, his
father, the late Rev. Dr. Burns, of Dunedin,
having been a son of Gilbert Burns. Arthur
Burns is a tall, dark, handsome man, and used lo
be as fiery and impetuous in his smaller sphere as
the poet, or his remote kinsman the labour
agitator, in their greater world.
Mr. John Lovett, Governor of Darling-
hurst Prison, was last week found dead in his
bed—of heart-disease. Lovett was chief warder
during the incarceration in the debtors’ prison of
Mr. G. R. Dibbs, who subsequently acceded to
the Colonial Secretaryship, and, on the retirement
of Governor Read, conferred the vacant post on
Lovett. The deceased was Falstaffian in appear-
ance and humour, and was possessed of a pheno-
menal memory, for he never failed to recollect the
face and voice of any person whom he had ever
met, or to recall the time and circumstances of
meeting, even after the lapse of 20 years.
POLITICAL PIONTS
The Big Freetrade Loaf Everybody
loafing.
Labouchere states that the Times has
dropped more than £209,000 over its anti-Parnell
crusade.
With Roberts, Mitchell, and Abigail in
England, Parkes’ Freetrade maiority will look
rather sick.
The Socialist vote in Germany has doubled
since last election. To quote Bismarck, “ the
clock of the world moves on.”
The Adelaide Natives’ Association has
carried a motion disapproving of titles. We notice,
however, that Sir John Bray is still president.
Parnell’s amendment on the Address-in-
Reply was rejected by only 67 votes in a total of
517. The House of Commons nuriibers 670
members.
A coalition between the Cockburn Govern-
ment and the Playford party is spoken of in
Adelaide. It is doubtful, however, if Playlord will
consent.
In 1870 a Sydney lady purchased a piece
of land with £l6O she had saved. The assessed
A RUM DEFINITION.
PUBLICAN (out West, to disgusted swagsman-customer); “ SO YOU DON’T LIKE THAT
RUM? WHAT SORT OF RUM DO YER LIKE, THEN?”
SWAGSMAN: “WELL, I LIKE GOOD HOT STUFF WHAT BITES-THAT’S LIKE
SWALLERING A CAT AND PULLING HER BACK BY THE TAIL-
BITE ALL THE WAY DOWN AND SCRATCH ALL THE WAY
BACK.”
value of the property is now £l6,ooo—in other
words, the land has, without any effort of hers, in-
creased in value a hundred times.
x i • s\ /at q wt \ 4i * i j i j £4 <2
Justice Owen (N. 5..) thinks that five
percent, is a sufficient return for capital.” Greater
returns tax labour and put a premium on monied
idleness. '
Mr. Augustus Morris will endeavour to
enter the next N.S.W. Parliament. Mr. Morris
is a Freetrader, and was a N.S.W. member of
Parliament 30 vears atro
T ,Y " .
A London writer asserts that some people
woqld always be poor “if they owned the whole
world, and it was a globe of gold, and they had
hell for a smelting-pot.”
One of the most ominous signs of the times
• ,■ , , tv rn t
is the suddenness with which Sydney D. f. has
ceased preaching freetrade sermons every morning
in its leading columns, f
The population of N.S.W, on 31st Decern-
her is estimated by Mr. Coghlan, the Government
statistician, to have been 1,222,200 618,300
males and 503,900 females. _
Parkes was the oldest and Deakin the
youngest member of the Federation Conference.
Both are remarkable for their extreme verbosity.
„.
terial colleague of Premier Parkes, is the latest
distinguished convert to Protection. Mr. Salo-
mons earns at the Bar, say, £6OOO to £BOOO a year
and therefore he “wants nothing.”
Gladstone’s eulogistic reference to the
peaceable accomplishment of the Brazilian revolu-
tion has offended the European crowned heads.
Since they object to peaceful revolution, they need
only refuse to abdicate to have it the other way.
Notwithstanding repeated contradictions,
the Age still keeps on asserting that the Irish
envoys deduct their “exes.” from the collections
and remit the balance home. We are assured
that, as before announced, the local committee
remit the coin intact
There will be more excitement over the
S.A. elections this year than was ever known
before in the history of that province. Candi-
dates are coming out in shoals. It is thought that
not more than one-half of the members of the
existing Parliament will be re-elected.
It is said that when the N.S.W. Parlia-
ment re-assembles Treasurer M‘Millan will prob-
ably not be a member of the Parkes Ministry.
Mr. M‘Mill an has been considerably worried by
private troubles, and his state of health is such
that he does not feel well enough to continue in
active political life.
A London writer asserts that “ nowa-
days you have no choice between a society which
is utterly soulless or one which is no doubt intel-
lectual enough, but where half the company have
at one time or another attacked the throne,
denied the Thirty-nine Articles or assaulted the
police.” Quite true. All the brains are with the
Radicals, the Agnostics, the Revolutionaries.
The N.S.W. “ Freetrade and Liberal’’
Association has decided on the motion of J. C.
Neild that it won’t join in any federation scheme
calculated to imperil the freetrade policy of
N.S.W. The N.S.W. party, will, it is now plain,
be hopelessly riven by Parkes’ federation pro-
posals and the single-taxers. The latest stave in
the N.S.W. foAign-trade song is that the Aus-
tralias can federate without a fiscal agreement.
No fiscal agreement, no federation.
Bruce Smith, in reply to a deputation of
unemployed, declares that he “prefers to leave
such matters as wages to the natural laws which
regulate them.” “Natural law” says that every
man shall receive the whole produce of his toil
and, meantime, it is said that before long one
federal labour council will represent all the Aus-
tralasian toilers. Will Mr. Bruce Smith call their
undivided front “a natural law”? If so, he is
bound to acknowledge the legality of all their
demands.
The Social Democrats in Berlin only
polled between GO and 70 at the Parliamentary
election of 1867, but their advance has been so
swift that in 1887 they polled over 90,000. , As we
write, the v news has come to hand of the Minis-
terial defeat, so far, and the return of twenty
Radicals and twenty-one Socialists. Bismarck is
like the ostrich thrusting its head in the sand to
elude its pursuers, or perhaps he is like Chancellor
Maupas, in'Carlyle’s “French Revolution,’ gyrat-
ing and saying, “It will last my time —after me the
Deluge.”
Behold, Australia has at last found her
Macaulay, From the S.A. Register
Like the baseless dreams of youth, and even the seem-
ingly well-based hopes of manhood, the absorbing dream
of°a -great national future for Australasia will, I fear,
never be realized, for in the heart of the fragrant hud of
the national hope which genuine Australiansdisinterestedly
cherish, the worm of local interests and human selfishness
is already at work, and the undeveloped flower of a
national existence will probably wither before F has
bloomed.
This is a slap in the eye for Dan O’Connor.
The National Agricultural Society of Vic-
toria has had a bad attack of eruptive royal rash,
or erysipelas flunkeyana. Brunton, the, miller,
one of M'Culloch’s loyal Liberals, brought up a
motion, and got it carried by 25 to 3, to change
the Society’s name to the Royal . gricultural—
here is another dig in the stomach for the stupid
Australian Republicans. Yet the chief » pponent
was Chas. Young, M.L.A., of Kyneton, a staunch
Conservative ! They boohooed him like agricul-
tural bulls of Basharfx for saying that Hopetoun’s
was a Pinchbeck royalty, but the asses could not
see his point, which was that only one royal court
could be maintained. Even Queen Victoria
would prefer Young to the bellowing of the bulls.
Mr. W. H. Vivian, of the Freetrade jaw-
bone brigade, whose wife took the “ stump ”
on tie during the late Freetrade campaign,
and who is frantically desirous of getting
into the N.S.W. Parliament and has already
been trounced at one or two elections, is feeling
the pulse of the Manning and Hastings with a
view to succeeding the retiring member, Mr. C. J.
Roberts. Washington Irving once said that a
large proportion of the magnates of the earth get
a reputation for wisdom in either of two ways—
“by talking a great deal and thinking very little,
or by shutting their mouths and not thinking at
all.” The Vivian can talk more and say less at a
pressure of three hundred and fifty-seven pounds
of “mag” to the square inch of jawbone than
iven Alfred Allen, M.P. And, as Charley Roberts
never thought much in private and never said
anything about politics in public, it is quite plain
that, should the electors allow Vivian to replace
their present member, they will simply be trading
off a fine healthy specimen of one of the two
species defined by Irving in exchange for a repre-
sentative example of the other sort.
The Federation of Labour.
I see the flag, as yet unfurled,
That’s resting in the people’s hand,
The lever that shall move the world
When all shall join the Federal Band.
I see that power, though dormant still,
That means the tyrants’ overthrow—
That, with the people’s own strong will,
Shall sweep away all wrongs we know.
I see the breath of Freedom move
The toiling, laboured human mind ;
Soon shall its small, faint rustle prove
A mighty, rushing, scourging wind.
All hail ! the glorious time that’s nigh;
No cruel wrong shall then remain;
That day when ail the drones put by
The workers only reap the grain.
H.W.T.


Emin Pasha (on reading some cf Stan-
ley’s recent statements concerning him) :
“ Well, I am a bit of a liar myself, but—
well, you just wait until I get able to bo
about again, that’s all! ”
They ha vo had a show el* of frogs
recently at Shoalhaven The weather
forecast of the future will read something
like this ; “ Heavy easterly winds along
the coast, accompanied by frog showers
extending inland, with areas of iguanas
for the agricultural districts. Look out
for hailstorms of oysters also ”
A left-handed compliment.
By cable; “A distinguished
English author says that
Parkos is second only to
Gladstone.” (Local papers
please copy.)
, By cable : "Another*
equally distinguished author
says ‘that Gladstone is the
wickedest Englishman of
his generation.’ ’’
ok fay
//<?/-7f tfueet? s'/apef/ctct 4/r’?Z^oaZ'/t0 /7 ? CL
State 0/-/)6aoa<£e y / fc L J Zegtj <ScJui}o£)ec) &*'}
t
Mr" Dooby; “ Look ere, Bill, get y.our gun
and come along with me attei iljiiii-
foxes. The Guv'ment is givin’ out
am aitiou now ■ 1 hat s good- enough,
aiut it { ”
Bill ; No, don’t care for shootin’, but if
the Guv’ment will give me some prawns
I’ll go fshm’.”
Bridget u’Whaley “ Kitty M’Bnen fhwat have
yez got in yon box ■ "
M'Bkien : “ Shuro an' its a toypq-writer. I’ve
given warnin’ at me cook’s place, an' I m gom
to learn to play upon this machine and thin, git
a plaice in the Guv’ment !
O’Whaley : “ But yez can’t read at all, at all”
M’Bkien: “ Howld yer ignorant whisht. isut it
faymale tovpe-WROiTER.s the Guv’nleut wants,
not faymale toype haydeks 1"
fao the Grammar School anUsor-itles are try-
ing to apply tho compulsory principle in con-
nection with the Cadet corps. Out of a
total-school enrolment of 400 they have been
able 'to induce only about 100 boys to join
the new corps, and consequently they have
written to the parents of some of the un-
willing boys asking lK«m for permission to
drive these young gentlemen into the ranks.
.. -
/ s&ecS'\so‘ u jp /
:z±£
THINGS IN GENERAL.


- ! h ' lf (|
g J [f^ 2 1 lb @ y rr| e
\ U Li ll l[ ■“ e
(^or^ed- y IA/ill
6C/<2-<S i7~^<-^
o/// tr/a^/srjji^
ţ
C^d^a
if £***-£.
/• as. £>a rfaf /'// ’/f<sc*
•' f e.a/ /£,» /-.
SACKED,
i E
/ 01-D
• K\ P
o~Ks /7z2s 0-C4C 9w .<£**-*1 £>*~<£L4k, (0 /
2^*7
</ Ur&^o
C^3 r /&Z
c)
ť
( -d r*ci c t
<? / / & A S,s' "s' / *
Z' ' C cry>^ ■ ///c S'ye:
/£Z
THE GREAT MOSS WILL CASE.


Foreign & colonial exchange bank
OF AUSTRALASIA, Limited.
Sydney—B6 King Street.
Melbourne —3G9 Collins Street.
London Bankers —Australian Joint Stock Bank,
No. 2 King William Street, London, E.C.
A uthorised Capital, £500,000.
T, S. RICHARDSON, Esq., Managing Director.
This Bank undertakes the Exchange of Money,
both International and Intercolonial, includ-
ing the Coinage of all Foreign Nations, in
addition to all usual and customary banking busi-
ness.
Deposits Received.
3 years
12 months
6 months
3 months
Communications to be
Managing Director.”
... 8J per cent.
... 8 percent.
... 7 percent.
... 6 percent,
addressed to “The
Horsford’s Acid Phosphate
FOR SUNSTROKE.
It relieves the prostration and nervous derange-
ment,
“ There are more cures made with Dr. Soule’
American Hop Bitters than all other medicines.” 8
Everybody should use Pemell’s latest best Snow-white
Patent Roller Flour. It is the greatest success of the age.
The people of Sydney should remember
that for the finest and cheapest photos, they
should pay a visit to Chubb & Praeger, Empire
Galleries, 482 and 484 Georgo-strect, over Beales.
The
Marvellous
18s. 6d.
OPTIMUS
WATCHES
The Best, Cheapest and Most Accurate Timekeepers
ever produced.
Made especially to our order by one of the leading and
most celebrated manufacturers of Watches in Switzerland,
and experience has shown that no watch is better than a
well-made Swiss one.
Gilt movements, jewelled in six holes, keyless (10 turns
to wind), enamel dials, crystal faces, well made, splendidly
finished, nickel cases that will wear excellently; in fact,
real good-looking, handsome little watches, and magnifi-
cent timekeepers.
Twelve months’ guarantee forwarded with every one.
Send P. 0.0. for 19s. 6d. (Is. postage), and have one
forwarded by post. If not in every way satisfactory after
a week money willingly refunded.
Only to be obtained from
FROST <Sc SHIPHAM.
Spectacle Makers, Opticians & Electricians,
474 & 537 George Street, Sydney.
W. H. PALING & COMPANY, LIMITED,
356 George Street, SYDNEY,
HAVE Jttst Opened a Magnificent Lot of
Also of the wonderful Victor
JNTo'w Pianos from the celebrated Makers, Steinway, Erard, Uehel, Fenrich, Lipp, Bonisch, Eluthnor, Collat'd,and others
Pianos au-fc £45 and Eertey Organs. No such Variety or Value elsewhere for Cash or 'Perms.
5
Society
Whenever Jimmy Tyson, the N.S.W.
squatter—who is said to be six times a millionaire
—travels by rail, ho carries a pocketful of little
green apples and munches them by the way.
What is happiness? Mere millions? No, James
would be miserable without his little green apples.
# * *
“How I spent £250,000 in* two years”
omits to chronicle an adventure the Jubilee
Juggins met with while attending a ball at the
Pareora station, Canterbury, during his tour
through N.Z. One Smith, a friend of the pro-
prietor of the station, in a moment of weakness
promised to convoy the distinguished and particu-
larly insipid guest to the station in his dog-cart,
but, when the day arrived, to his horror, Juggins,
attired in a beautifully-brilliant suit of pyjamas,
presented himself at the rendezvous with a valet
and about a dozen portmanteaux. To compel the
valet to place :* suit of dress clothes and the
barest necessaries in a small box was the
work of a very few minutes on the part of
the driver of the vehicle, and the valet was care-
fully left behind to nurse the balance. This
almost upset Juggins’ equilibrium, and the air wa*
full of his lamentations nearly the whole of the
journey. But the final stroke was given when he
was shown up into the loft (which, by the way,
was a nice light and airy one, well furnished with
straw and blankets), where the young fellows who
had already arrived were to “doss” down for
the night, the ladies having the house set
apart for their use. Not for worlds would
Juggins pais the night in that fashion, and he
abruptly left the loft with the expressed intention
of seeking a bed at a cottage he had observed some
three miles down the road. The night was truly
a “ dark, direful, dismal ” one, and the new-chum
had a bad time of it. Next morning he was
found near a limekiln, about six miles from the
cottage he had been seeking, bis beautifully
coloured suit in tatters, and looking the picture of
utter wretchedness. His dismal account of the
horrors he had experienced, the barbed-wire
fences he had embraced, the cows’ legs he had
become entangled in, and the ditches he had, pro-
miscuously explored head-first, afforded the topic
of conversation at Pareora Station for many a day.
* * *
“ A young Christian man desires to make
the acquaintance of young Christian lady (maid or
widow) with little means, matrimony in view.
Not merely a church-goer, but references as to
sterling Christian character indispensable. No
worldlings need answer. Address, ‘J? Fidelity,’
Y.M.C.A., Russell-street.” —Melbourne advt
From a London paper :
The news of the engagement of the universally and
deservedly popular Rupert Carington to Miss Horsfall,
the Australian heiress, will be welcomed by the innumer-
able friends of the genial and handsome Rupert. In old
days people used humorously to assert that Rupert had
serious thoughts of laying his hand and heart before the
Milner Safe-investment, Caroline, Duchess of Montrose,
but the Fates willed it otherwise ; and now a windfall—
we mean, of course, a Horsfall—has come to the youngest
brother of the New South Welshman. Miss Horsfall is,
we are assured, as pretty and charming as she is well
supplied with bank-notes, and this is as it should be, for
beauty and grace are traditions in the Smith-Carington
family. Lady Carington is the lady who was once
described by a member of our Royal Family as “ one of
the nicest all-round women in London and Mrs. Willie
Carington, the wife of “ Charlie’s ” second brother, is the
pretty, clever, and rich Miss Juliet Warden, of New York,
who may justly lay claim to being considered one of the
best-dressed women in England. Her brother, the adipose
“Billy” Warden, of New York, who, notwithstanding his
bulk, can waltz divinely, and leads the cotillon admirably,
must to a great extent rely upon his intimacy with Princess
Christian and Leopold Rothschild to descend to remote
posterity, but he is witty and amiable, and none but a
very keen observer and captious critic would detect in the
traces that lurk beneath his bloom that his father was
engaged in what the Yankees term “ the dry goods” trade
in connection with the famous millionaire, the late A.
T. Stewart, whose agent abroad for silks and stuffs he
used to be.
Great heavens ! Baron Smith the brother-in-law
of a Yankee soft-goods drummer !
# # *
A man in a violent state of drink broke
into a young ladies’ seminary at Launceston (Tas.)
the other night, with various intentions, but he
was caught up by a cyclone of wild, young things,
banged round till he was nearly dead, and then
towed off to the lookup by the hair. The proprie-
tress of that seminary advertises to fit young
ladies for the duties of wifehood, and it would
really appear that she fills the bill.
# * #
The lival Sydney public bands have come
to a dead lock. They meet in King-street and begin
to play simultaneously within five yards of one
another. Then the police come.
Young Lord Dudley has begun to sell his
late father’s pictures. The fate of this young
man, who, since he visited Australia, has been
arrested in a London gambling-hell in company
with the Pelican Club mob, is obviously to de-
velope into a modern Charles Surface, with Mr.
Sam Lewis, the London usurer, to play Moses.
Dudley is a pure-bred Juggins and will yet have
to scratch up a precarious living by pasturing a
goat on the grave of his grandmother.
« * *
Mrs. Talkes, of the Sydney Night Refuge,
says that on bath nights there are many empty
beds in the institution, as a large per-centage of
the guests detest having a bath. All who sleep at
the Refuge have to wash before obtaining their
breakfast at 6 o’clock in the morning. We don’t
know what to make of Mrs, 1 alkes story. Some
of the outcasts are not so dirty in their habits,
after all. We saw one of them washing his shirt
in a drinking-fountain at 6 o’clock the other
morning.
* # #
Mr. Brient, chief of the Sydney D.T.
staff, says that “senior reporters in Australia are
expected to be brilliant descriptive writers, expert
shorthanders, and clever paragraphists all in one.”
But they are not, O ! they are not. A brilliant
piece of hasty descriptive writing—such as falls
to the lot of a reporter —is very seldom found in
any Australian daily paper. A clever paragraph
—never. This is a clever paragraph.
# * #
Chief Justice Higinbotham having lodged
an sesthetic protest against the profuse expectora-
tion of policemen, and others, within the precincts
of the Melbourne Supreme Court, a circular has
been issued from the head-quarters of the foorce
warning all and sundry “to abstain from the
filthy habit in question,” under penalty of igno-
minious expulsion by the officers of the Court. It
is expected that most of the young constables will
resign.
The blatant Melbourne “bobby” he may spit
upon his beat,
And squirt expectorations on the pavement of the
street;
He may spit upon the garments of a careless
passer-by,
And, if the stranger grumbles, job the handcuffs
in his eye.
He may spit upon the carpet, which his little wife
has swept;
(At spitting in the fender he was ever an adept)
But—alas ! for prohibition of so excellent a sport,
It seems he mustn’t suit within the precincts of the
Court.
Why should they cable that the Earl of
Stair has “got the Garter ?” What do we care?
# * *
Marriage makes a man give up all his
bachelor friendships if his wife is very pretty.
# * *
A comical card is the Rev. Nathaniel
Kinsman, Church of England parson and
auctioneer, Collingwood, Melbourne—though he
has now abandoned the hammer business, through
his prodigious flow of trade in celebrating
marriages, wherein he beats all the historical
Fleet parsons. His proud record is 78G1
marriages since he began, which he did at an early
age, though he has been going double-quick time
lately. Kinsman’s little parlour, his sanctum,
snuggery, is a delicious place, redolent with happy
memories, pointing his fat hand to the sofa,
Kinsman will unctuously exclaim, “Seven thous-
sand eight hundred and sixty-one ’appy qupples
have sat there, that is to say, fifteen thousand
seven hundred and twenty-two ’appy pussons.
Oh ! am I not a dispenser of yuman ’appyness ? ”
Over 30 years’ glorious work, while all the other
clergymen gnash their teeth with rage, but the
secret is that Kinsman will do the business for
“ five bob,” that is to say, a hextry ’arf-crown
over the registry-office, for the sanctity of the
thing. At the end of every thousand or so,
Kinsman hands over a nice new family Bible to a
pair of victims.
# # #
InN.S.W., in 1889, there were £23,045
worth more of postage-stamps sold than in 1888.
Repeated monthly accounts ?
# * *
A pleasant social event missed fire at
Brighton (Vic.) the other day, and plunged a
young and lovely female in briny tears and gulps
of deep despair. She was a domesticated damsel,
and grappled courageously with the cooking, and
the washing, and the baby, and other household
difficulties, in the kitchen of a local nabob at so
much a* week and her keep, and two nights off,
till a delusive fishmonger came and cast his beguil-
ing eye upon her over the back gate, and promised
to bestow his large, red hand upon her in marriage.
The arrangement was satisfactory to all concerned,
and notices were posted and arrangements made
for the matrimonial event, but, alas ! the smoked
ling and salt cod-fish merchant was a youth lack-
ing in self-confidence and proper spirit, and as the
day approached he begam to feel unequal to the
emergency and to and soulful
trepidation. The bride and her friends, and all
the other necessary adjuncts to a lawful wedding,
repaired to the church at the appointed time, but
the fishmonger had stolen away over the face of
nature and hidden down a mine somewhere in the
dim distance, and the girl who went to wed re-
mained to weep, and her bridal veil became a veil
of tears, and she was forced to return to her
domestic labours, unaltared, but a different girl.
The wedding-cake is thrown upon her hands, but
presently she will congratulate herself that the
other cake got away. The fishmonger did not
stay to offer any excuses—he left a thriving busi-
ness unprotected, and shot right out into the
country parts.
* * *
The authorities of Schleswig-Holstein have
exempted from taxation all the dogs which, “sleep-
ing in the beds of their masters or mistresses,
serve to prevent them from gout, rheumatism, and
other ailments. ” What about fleas ?
* * #
Brisbane “ ad.” :
rnHE many friends and acquaintances of Mrs. -—-
will be pleased to hear of her safe return to Bris-
bane from the North, and will be happy to meet same
at her residence.
The “ inexpressive she.”
iSpagnoletfci writes that
they have the London Times
complete in Melbourne Public
Library, and turning up the
volume for 1823 he came across
a most interesting ad verti sem ent,
that of Shaw, the Yorkshire
schoolmaster, who was the
original of Dickens’ Wackford
Squeers, in “ NicholasNickleby. ”
Lloyd, the Edinburgh comedian,
was a pupil at Dotheboys’ Hall,
and said Dickens’ Squeers was
an atrocious libel, and broke the
heart of Shaw, one of the kindest
men that ever lived. The real
name of Dotheboys was Doves,
as appears in the advertisement,
where Shaw invites parents to
meet him at the Blue Boar Inn,
London. Theadvertisement says
there are “no holidays,” and
gives the names of a number of
London tradesmen as references.
They say that the Vic-
torian orchestra guarantors will
have to pay dearly for their fad.
* * *
The husband of a certain
Kentish lady has good reason to
remember the year 1889. She
presented him with triplets in
January and twins in December.
# * *
The chief difference be-
tween the “Johnnie” and the
“dude” is that the former has
money, the latter only a silver-
topped cane. Neither has
brains.
* * *
Mrs. Malaprop, of Toorak,
says Lord Hopetoun must be
very affectionate, because he
always alludes to his wife as his
suite.
* * *
Lord Hopetoun being bare-
faced, the officer in charge of a
local battery of horse-artillery
has given his men a sovereign each to shave their
moustaches and be like the Guv’nah.
# *
The Victorian Reporters’ Association em-
braces a larger number of possible members than
any other professional association in the province.
* * *
The latest development of Love’s young
dream is the photographic hair-brush. It is just
the old arrangement in wood (or ivory) and
bristles with a view of the adored one let in at the
back. Thus, when Angelina, in a semi-disrobed
condition, starts to operate on her flowing mane,
she is reminded of her Edwin, far, far away. As
she faces the toilet-glass, to' brush it well behind
her pink little ears, an admiring vision of her own
best boy is reflected, whereupon the pet blushes in
sweet confusion and thinks “What would he give
to really see me now ?” Meanwhile Edwin, per-
haps, has got Angelina by the handle (for it is
usual to exchange brush tokens) and Sighs pas-
sionately as he pounds away at his own wool.
Finally they both slip their photographic hair-
brush under the pillow and retire to rest, ex-
hausted by the fury of their respective emotions.
* * *
Mr. French-Brewster, who sat in the
House of Commons as an “ardent loyalist,” has
Come forward, little spinster gals,
Or widows young in years,
Send in your testi-monials
Without delay, my dears ;
Explain the virtues of your case
To J. Fideli-ty :
That’s if you’re born again in grace—
No worldlings need apply.
Complexion may be dark or fair —
He doesn’t care a dash,
Provided you can breathe a prayer
And bring a little cash ;
A figure either plump or slim
Will please his holy eye :
“ Terewth and sugar ” mixed, for him—
No worldlings need apply.
Fidelity will want his tart
To take a Bible class,
To have a sterling Christian heart
(N.B. and also brass—
On no account forget the chips),
To live as she would die
With texts upon her ruby lips—■
No worldlings need apply.
IN THE TRAIN.
(FIR THE BULLETIN.)
They were booked right through and newly
Made a matrimonial pair,
But were ill-assorted truly :
She was very young and fair.
He was old, and bald, and ugly—
Sixty summers if a year—
But was situated snugly
With his banker, you can swear.
On her left a youthful drummer
Sat demurely with a book,
Thinking what a little “ hummer ’
Money-Bags had on-his hook.
A CLEYER WOMAN.
DOCTOR : “WELL MR. JONES, HOW DO YOU LIKE TO BE MARRIED AGAIN?”
MR. JONES: “I THINK I MADE A MISTAKE THIS TIME. MY WIFE TAKES INTEREST
IN NOTHING, IN FACT SHE IS A SILLY WOMAN.”
DOCTOR: “BUT DIDN’T YOU FIND THAT OUT BEFORE THE MARRIAGE?”
MR. JONES: “AH MY YOUNG FRIEND, YOU DON'T KNOW THE ARTFULNESS OF
WOMEN-WHY SHE GAMMONED TO BE CLEVER."
’Twas not strange his glances slyly
Met her slyly glancing eyes—
When he sighed the lady shyly
Hove some very large-sized sighs.
Soon the noisy train went screeching
Through a tunnel long and dark.
And a simultaneous reaching
Of the husband and the spark
For the lady sentimental
Followed. The result was dire :
- When the light returned the gentle
Hubby rose in awful ire,
Shook his fists with spirit tidy,
Swore to have the drummer’s life,
“ How the devil dared you,” cried he,
“ Kiss this lady—she’s my wife ?”
Came the drummer’s answer patter—
Cool and passionless sat he —
“ Well, sir,” said he, “ for that matter,
How’the deuce dared you kiss me?”
E.D.


The SYDNEY DEPOSIT BANK,
90 —KING STREET —9O
Established 1885.
Agencies in London and throughout Australia.
Overdrafts granted against Deposit of Deeds,
and all the usual banking business transacted.
The following are the Rates of Interest allowed
for Fixed Deposits :
3 Years 91 per cent.
12 Months 8i per cent,
6 Months 7i per cent.
3 Months 5t per cent.
5 per cent, allowed on daily balance ol current account.
For the past Four (4) Years a Bonus of One per
■ Cent, has been paid in addition to the above rates.
This is the first and only Bank in the Colonies
which divides its profits with its depositors.
Communications from the country will be
promptly attended to.
T. S. RICHARDSON.
General Manager.
“That low, nervous fever, want of sleep and
weakness, calls for Dr. Soule’s American Hop
Bitters.”
Ambidextrous men are the exception. The
nails of the right hand can be trimmed as easily
as the left, by the use of McDonald’s Nail Trimmer.
All chemists. Price one shilling.
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
Everybody says—and what everybody says must be true
—that PemeH’s Snow white Patent Roller Flour is the
best in the market.
Use Bathg’s Baking Powder.
ALMOST AS PALATABLE
AS MILK
So disguised that the most
delicaiostomach can take it.
Kcmarkable as n
FRESH PRODUCER,
Persons gaisi rapidly
while taking it.
SCOTT’S EMUCSIOM
Is acknowledged by Physicians to bo the FINEST
and BEST preparation of its class for the relief ol
CONSUMPTION, SCROFULA, GENERAL
DEBILITY, WASTING DISEASES OE
CHILDREN, and CHRONIC COUGHS.
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS.
9u
Em
hup
f I ' ■ ' J * *
Robertson’s "\\Thisky. £2 °° mizE S .
GIVEN AWAY IN THU COLONIES
AS FOLLOWS;
lf> oC 45 each, 25 42, and TO 41,
Pamphlets from the Agents, _A.3L.XjiT &
CO., Limited.,
CHARLOTTE PLACE. SYDNEY
failed miserably to get a divorce from his wife.
Mr. Justice Butt, alter pointing out that all sorts
of traps had been laid for the fair respondent, in-
timated that the ardent loyalist was a con-
temptible worm. Petitioner slunk out of court
with his hat jammed over his eyes, and tried to
drown his disgrace in “ God Save the Queen.” All
was lost save ardent loyalty.
* * *
Sir Theodore Martin emphatically con-
tradicts the statement that the Queen has an-
nounced her intention of issuing a further volume
of extracts from her journal. Just as we were
looking for a consignment of “ Leaves ” by next
mail! The office Swinburne will let off steam —
Brigadier-General Maclver, the would-be
exploiter of New Guinea under his “15th flag,”
hasgothis divorce absolute from Mrs. Brigadier-G.,
from whom he has been separated for many years.
Rumour has it that the gallant General has long
had his eye on a fairly ugly model of femipinity,
with much worldly dross attached, and we join in
wishing the head of the Clan Maclver all the luck
he deserves. Many Australian she-darlings will
remember with kindling pleasure having been
patronisingly noticed by the out-at-elbows adven-
turer, whose eyes had not lost their cunning for
the detection of what he was pleased to term
“ pints of female beauty. ” Once, when strolling
along Ann-street, Brisbane, the Brigadier, who
had just dined-with Sir Charles Lilley (who is not
a teetotaller), politely took off his hat and accosted
two young ladies, with—“ Good evening, mes-
demoiselles, will two such fair and beauteous
creatures farour me with an introduction by stat-
ing their names ? Really, you are two very pretty
girls, and I admire and reverence beauty wherever
I see it. ” The ladies murmured out some names—
real or assumed. The General bowed again : “Do
you know to whom you have been speaking?”
“No.” “Then go home, my dears, and tell your
parents, and treasure it up in your memories for
the future, that you have had the honour of con-
versing with the great General Maclver, who has
fought ‘ under 14 flags.’ ” They Went.
AV -M: #
Protessor Tyndall considers —vide a recent
letter—that Mr. Gladstone is the wickedest
Englishman of his generation.
Macaulay says, Dr. Johnson frequently-
offended more senses than one. The Doctor did
not use McDonald’s Perfect Nail Trimmer and
Cleaner. All chemists. Price one shilling.
Judge Miller, of Queensland, was recently
asked to excuse a juror whose name had been
drawn in the usual way. “On what grounds?”
“ Because I believe in no hell.” The judge ex-
cused him. Such public and painful rivalry be-
tween judges is much to be deprecated. Why
should Judge Miller suspect a no-hell man?
Judge Noel might as reasonably taboo all the
millers from jury service.
The Sydney Sunday paper which bare-
facedly cribs columns from the American press
and localises the stuff by the substitution of
Sydney and Melbourne for New York and
Chicago usually gives the little game dead away
by its omission to substitute “ Australian ” for
“American,” or “stewed oysters” for “clam-
chowder.” We mention this in justice to the
talented proprietor, who may be under the im-
pression that he is printing original matter.
Poor Maud Robinson, of Melbourne, has
got into a badly-damaged condition, through
maintaining matrimonial opinions adverse to those
held by Polly Brown and Clara Larkin, two pre-
viously friendly spinsters. It seems that the
damsel trio were discussing a can of foaming
tanglefoot, when Maud said that she thought it
was quite proper for widows to get married again,
if they felt (as they usually do feel) that they could
be happy with another. The rest of the meeting,
which was in an advanced state of beer, tabled a
conflicting motion to the effect that marriage was
■ an everlasting covenant, in nowise dissolved by
the death of either party. “No-wooraanshortave-
moranoneoleman,” decided Polly and Clara, who
are great sticklers for propriety, after about three
half-pints apiece. Maud was clearly outvoted on
this great connubial question, but, instead of with-
drawing the original resolution, she took another
pull at the lotion and persisted that a second
husband was quite proper, if you didn’t hank him
up to the altar in too great a hurry. It is needless
to mention that great disorder ensued. Ere Maud
could add another word, Polly landed her fair on
the ear with the empty can. While she was
further basting Maud with an umbrella, reinforce-
ments arrived in the shape of Clara, who knocked
the enemy down at one fell swoop, whereupon the
THE TRIMMINGS THAT KILL.
UNDERTAKER, (to newly-made widow) ; “WHAT TRIMMINGS WOULD YOU LIKE
ON THE COFFIN MADAM?”
N.M. WIDOW: “TRIMMINGS! WHY, NO TRIMMINGS. I’VE HAD ENOUGH
TRIMMINGS. IT WAS TRIMMINGS WOT KILLED 'IM.”
UNDERTAKER: “WHAT TRIMMINGS KILLED HIM?”
N.M.W.: “WHY, DELIRIUM TRIMMINGS.”
allies celebrated their victory over unwomanly
convictions by sitting on Maud until it was tim®
to remove her to the hospital in an ambulance-
waggon. Maud brought forward several black
eyes and other grievances to the Carlton police-
court, but the defendant ladies were lot down
lightly, out of respect for their rigid notions of
propriety and belief in the sacred obligations
attaching to marriage with a deceased husband.
A chapter of romance. Early in the
thirties there arrived, free, in Sydney a comely
young woman who had left her English home to
avoid the sneers of her neighbours. She brought
with her an infant child, the progeny of a man
who professed for her a deep and never-dying de-
votion. That she loved him in return is evidenced
by her leaving home and friends on his promise to
follow her to Australia and “ make an honest
woman of her.” Month after month passed away
and no word coming from the absent one, she con-
cluded that it was the same old, old story and
that she had been thrown over for some newer
flame. Instead of plunging into the lucid waters
of the then truly beautiful harbour, as so many
others have done, she looked around for another
reed to lean upon and accepted an offer of
marriage from a respectable man, by name
William Phineas Bowles. They lived happily to-
gether till one fine morning towards the end of
1834, when the mail—very uncertain in those days
—brought to the wife a letter from her old lover,
in which he explained that he had been ill and an
inmate of a hospital for a long time and had been
unable to communicate with her, but he had now
recovered and was coming by the next ship. In
great joy she showed her husband the letter, and
announced her intention of taking up again wi-h
the old flame if he would have her ! The husband
naturally enough was not overjoyed at the pros-
pect, nor was he inclined to allow the parties to
the new contract to have it all their own way. He
procured a knife, and having carefully “ground ”
it to the required point, he stabbed the wife to
death in the open day at their joint residence in
Bathurst-street. In such a moral city as Sydney
then was, the authorities could, of course, do noth-
ing but string him up, which they did three days
after his conviction by a military jury.
From the Times of Ceylon of 14th Jan. :
Arabi Pasha has come out more this week than he has
done for a long time. The cause of it all has been a lady,
and that lady Miss Yon Finkelstein, the Oriental lecturer.
I saw Arabi at her lecture the other night thoroughly
enjoying Miss Yon Finkelstein’s discourse—a pretty good
proof that she was correct in what she said. She speaks
Arabic fluently, and I have little doubt that she has
afforded Arabi a pleasant opportunity of hearing his own
tongue spoken by a stranger. I saw Arabi with her at the
Parsee Theatre last night, and whenever the play flagged
a little I noticed the pair in deep conversation.
The following glowing description of Mrs.
O’Shea, the lady who is alleged to be a particular
friend of Mr. Parnell, appeared in a contemporary
four years ago
Few people are aware that the wife of Captain O’Shea
M.P., the redoubtable member for Galway, is the sister of
that man of mark, the gallant and indomitable Sir Evelyn
Wood, V.C., the only stain on whose escutcheon —and
which must for ever, alas! remain a stain—is that he
signed the ignoble and humiliating peace of Majuba Hill.
Mrs. O’Shea, or Kitty O’Shea, as'she is now called by
those who have the pleasure of her friendship and
acquaintance, possesses in a rare degree the three splendid
attributes of “blood, beauty, and bravery.” Who that
ever had the privilege of visiting Kivenhall Place, the
house and home of her father, Sir John Page Wood, will
ever forget the lovely apparition that threw an air of en-
chantment around in the shape of “ Kate Wood,” the third
and youngest daughter, whose blue-grey eyes were like em-
bodied poetry, and fascinated all who came under their
influence ? Her mother, Lady Wood, commenced novel-
writing at an age when most women consider themselves
utterly shelved and done for, and her novels would have
been considered sufficient to secure fame for the family,
had she not been far outstripped in this respect by her
second daughter, Mrs. Steele, whose “ Gardenhurst to
mention one book of many she has written —has become
one of our classics, being in every way so exceptionally
good that it stands almost on a par with “ Jane Eyre ” or
“ Adam Bede.” The elder sister, Lady Thomas Barrett-
Lcnnard, in her own way, is not less distinguished, for as
an amateur actress she will long be remembered, more
especially as she has transmitted her rare talent in that
respect to more than one of her children. Mrs. O’Shea
used also to'takc a prominent part in the theatricals of
Belhus and Rivenhall Place. The lovely contour of her
exquisite figure, the beautiful brown tresses, worn without
a single artifice and restraint, through which ran a golden
glimmer—which in the Highlands is said to bring luck—
all combined to make Mrs. O’Shea's impersonations more
than usually striking and attractive, in addition to which
she possessed the softest of voices, cast w'th such a rich,
deep, sonorous tone of musical sympathy, that she was
the very ideal of a heroine of romance. Such was and is
Kitty O’Shea.
After this, no matter how wicked he may have
been, Parnell must be forgiven.
Editor Bulletin. Sir,— You are wrong
(of course unwittingly) in stating that a split
has occurred in the S.A. Single-tax camp, and
that there are now two antagonistic parties, viz.,
the Single-tax and the Taxation Reform Leagues.
The latter league was suggested (and largely
brought into existence) by one of our most pro-
minent Single-tax men, Mr. J. N. Birks, to bring
into hne those who, while they could not go the
length of the Single-tax, yet thought that no Cus-
toms revenue should be raised from anything
which cannot be grown, produced, or manufac-
tured in the colony, and that the deficiency in the
revenue thus caused should be made up by in-
creasing the land-tax to about threepence in
the pound on the ununproved value of all
land, deducting from such value the amount
the Government sold the land for. Of this
land - tax the county of Adelaide would
pay two-thirds (as it includes North and
South Adelaide and their valuable suburbs), and
the remaining thirty-six counties would only pay
the other third. It is needless to tell you that our
local plutocrats, squatters, and absentee agents
(so many of whom are, unfortunately, in our
Houses of Parliament), bitterly opposed both
leagues, though some wealthy senators are friendly,
notably the Hon. John Darling, M.L.0., who is
Adelaide’s president of the Taxation Reform
League, but is not a Single-tax man. Mr. Birkg
and I have just retired from the committee of the
Taxation Reform League (still retaining our mem-
bership) because our being at the same time pro-
minent Single-tax workers was misunderstood and
the two leagues were looked on as one and the
same.—Yours truly, '. T. Saunders. [Well,
then, if the two associations mentioned are not
antagonistic to each other, one of them is utterly
antagonistic to the N.S.W. Single-tax Association,
which abhors and detests the admittedly Protec-
tionist principles of the Taxation Reform League.
Under present circumstances, The Bulletin sides
with the Taxation Reform League, which, if it
sticks to its present (and immediately practicable)
scheme, certainly cannot be brought “into line”
with the N.S.W. Single-taxers.— Ed. B.]
A policeman of large proportions and
medium intellect, circulating and revolving in a
small, reticent, way-back township in the wastes
of Benambra (Vic.), had a bad attack of something
about a fortnight back when the sun was hot
enough to freckle an alligator. The officer’s name
is Menan, and he is long and gaunt and tapers off
at one end with a hat full of hair of intemperate
redness and concludes at the other terminus in a
pair of boots large enough to ferry a circus from
Sydney to Hongkong. Hitherto _ Constable
Menan had been remarkable for his placidity
and deliberate action under aggravation, and
for a disposition to go to sleep in spite of
adverse circumstances and violent calls of duty,
but on the occasion mentioned he broke out
of his usual state of careless despondency and
official languor and proceeded to exert himself in
a manner that caused leading residents, old iden-
tities, and other important people much uneasiness
and led to an utter suspension of business. Mr.
Menan was engaged during the earlier part of the
day dulling his sensibilities by a patient endeavour
to flood his own little drought with beer, which
so affected His intellectual grasp that at two
o’clock by the sun he went out and revolved over
a horse-trough ; recovering his dignity, he imme-
diately arrested a reputable draper and a member
of the Shire Council for intoxicated behaviour in a
public place and for wearing his hair all at the
back of his head with intent to commit a felony,
and the policeman pulled the councillor all about
the township by the bead, and fell over him times
out of mind, and then suddenly left him in a
generally dishevelled state, to seize upon another
man who was passing, and arrest him in the
Queen’s name for appearing at large in a multi-
plied state like an adult triplet, and he wrestled
m the dust with his new prisoner quite a lot, and
then got him down, and sat upon top of him, and
played marches on his head with the regulation
club; after which he pulled the greater part
of the man’s clothes off while conveying him
twenty yards. Constable Menan’s attention
was now directed to a Chinaman sitting in
a shop, eating a banana, and he immediately
entered and seized the Chow and broke a lot of
store fixtures and front windows with him. The
heathen was quiescent and content to go to law
and vindicate his character if the policeman would
convey him to the hall of justice by the nearest
route without any bullocking or vain display, but
Mr. Menan seemed to think he ought to make
some show for his money, and he lifted the man
from China up and revolved on his own axis, and
then fell down and sat on John’s face and walked
on him and tripped over him and got mixed up
with him in a fearfully perplexing way, the exhi-
bition of ground and lofty wrestling terminating
in an upheaval of dust and rags and hair, out of
which cloud and shroud of mystery the myrmidon
of the law issued presently to arrest a horse for
conduct unbecoming in an officer and a gentlemen.
The horse was a cream-laid dwarf of a stern, un-
yielding disposition, and it maintained the rights
of the subject by treading all up and down the
policeman’s feet and rolling him out on the road,
so that when Constable Menan’s suspicions were
aroused by a woman with a perambulator he
issued out of the contest, looking as if he had
been overtaken and manipulated by a steam-
churn. The officer arrested the perambulator on
warrant, and wheeled it into a lagoon, whilst
the owner followed close on behind, and en-
deavoured to detract his attention and effect a
rescue by bashing his head with a new paste-pin.
The local trap arrested a lot more people and
things after that, and expended a tremendous lot
of sweat and strength conducting them a few
yards in no particular direction when he was
always called off by some fresh case. He searched
houses for concealed criminals, left official docu-
ments in blue envelopes at numerous places, threw
bricks and other missiles at men of standing, and
then drew himself up in the main street, and
placed the whole township under arrest for ob-
structing him in the execution of his duty, and
tearing the legs out of his uniform, and battering
his hat; at which stage a deputation waited upon
him from behind, and tied him up with ropes, and
laid him by till he felt better. The people of the
township are now petitioning to have Constable
Menan removed to a great distance and warned off
indefinitely.
“LEAVES.”
O ! Queen, with thy form clad in sable
Black emblems of grief and despa'r,
Was it not then a fact, but a fable
That flew through the grey-tinted air
On Rumour’s swift wings, while our bosom
Was heaving hot, passionate heaves?
Ere our hopes are full-born must we lose ’em ?
O ! more “Leaves,” more “ Leaves ” !
Must we pine, like a plant which none water
When the Sun to his rest goeth down,
For thy notes of long drives with thy daughter,
And thy yarns reminiscent of Brown ?
Great Queen, on thy subjects take pity ;
E’en as murderers sigh for reprieves
We sigh from the heart of each city—
O ! more “ Leaves,” more “ Leaves ” !
On the salt sea afloat, or on dry lands,
From mountain, or valley, or plain,
That Journal of Life in the Highlands
We pray thee to publish again,
Telling how, with delight, an old woman
Thy gift of a blanket receives—
Gracious proof of thy sympathy human.
O ! more “ Leaves,” more “Leaves ” !
HE HOPES TO BE WORSE BY AND BYE.
A villain indeed is the Grand Old Man
In the sight of his Tory foes—
As bad as they make ’em on Nature’s plan,
From the top of his head to his toes ;
He hasn’t the love of his Gracious Queen,
There are dozens of reasons why;
But wicked as Will in the past has been,
He hopes to be wuss by-and-bye.
lie granted a vote to the vulgar herd,
Knocked over some ancient jobs,
And floated a number of schemes absurd
For clipping the wings of “ nobs.”
The Irish Church with a Bill he slew,
Though the Bishops all yelled “Fie ! Fie !”
He’s a terrible fellow when in the cue,
And hopes to be worse by-and-bye.
Army billets the lords can’t purchase now
(As our Hopetoun knows too well),
And, all through William, they murmur how
The Service is going to H ;
Quid Erin the name of this wretch reveres,
For the day of Home Rule is nigh ;
Yet, ebony-black as the fiend appears,
He hopes to be worse by-and-bye.
Ah ! worthy Professor, no doubt you’re right
The sinner to thus rebuke,
Not one of his acts e’er gave delight
To an orthodox noble duke.
As for V.R. and her friends —well, they
Would like the Old Man to die ;
Provided he lives, we are grieved to say
He hopes to be worse by-and-bye.


A,SAUNDERS,
Watches and Jewellery are like good wives—they are
worth having.
Send for Illustrated Price List. Post Free.
813 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
(Nearly opposite Railway Station).
Factories: Liverpool and London, England
£2 10s. English Lever, Two Years’ Guaranteed.
£3 10s. English Lever, “The Unequalled,” full cap.
£* English Lever, “The Special,” compensated.
20/- The Unequalled Keyless Watch. 20/-
Country Residents and Visitors to Sydney call or send
to A. SAUNDERS, 813 George Street (nearly opposite
Kailway Station), SYDNEY.
£
/c
ŧ
T
m
o
u
. ‘
: J
/Uents ,
OELISSA& PHILLIPS
3&J Barrack Street.
BEAD IT ALU
IT MAY SAVE YOUR LIFE.
Dr. Soule’s American Hop Bitters
ARB
THE PUREST AND BEST
Medicine ever Made, They are compounded from
Hops, Buchu, Mandrake and Dandelion.
“The Oldest, Best, most Renowned,
‘ and Valuable Medicines in the
‘ World, and in addition contain all
* the best and most effective cura-
* tive properties of all other bitters,
* being the greatest Liver Regu-
* lator, BLOOD PURIFIER and
‘ life and health restoring agent on
* earth.”
They Dive New Life and Vigour to the Aged
and Infirm.
“To Clergymen, Lawyers, Literary
* Men, Labourers, Ladies, and all
‘ those whose sedentary exnploy-
‘ ments cause irregularities of the
* Blood, Stomach, Bowels, or
‘ Kidneys, or who require an
* Appetizer, Tonic, and mild Stimu-
‘ lant, these Bitters are invaluable,
‘ being highly curative, tonic, and
* stimulating without intoxicating.”
“No matter what your feelings or
‘ symptoms are, or what the disease
‘ or ailment is, use Hop Bitters.
‘ Don’t wait until you are sick, but
‘ if you only feel bad or miserable,
‘ use the Bitters at once. It may
‘ save your life. Hundreds have
1 been saved by so doing, at a
* trifling cost. ”
Ask your Druggist or Physician.
“Do not suffer yourself or let your
* friends suffer, but use and urge
‘ them to use Dr. Soule’s American
* Hop Bitters.”
“Remember, Dr. Soule’s American
‘ Hop Bitters is no vile, drugged
‘ drunken nostrum, but the purest
* and best Medicine ever made, and
‘ no person or family should be with-
‘ out it,”
HOP BITTERS MANUFACTURING CO.,
Melbourne, Australia, Rochester, N.Y., U.S.
A., Toronto, London, Antwery, Paris.
Amusements.
VJIHEATRE ROYAL.
Under the Management of Messrs. Williamson,
Garner and Musgrove.
Lessee, Mr. S. Lazar. Treasurer, Mr. Geo. L. Goodman.
IMMENSE SUCCESS OF
LITTLE LORD FAUNTLEROY,
By Mrs. Frances Hodgson Burnett.
Admission—ss., 3s. and Is.
J£ER MAJESTY’S THEATRE.
Lessee and Manager Mr. Geo. Rignold.
Doors open at 7 ; commencing 7.40. Carriages at 10.45.
ENORMOUS SUCCESS ! ENORMOUS SUCCESS !
of the New and Original Drama,
My Jack. My Jac In.
Box Office at Theatre from 10 to 5. Prices as usual.
J. P. Macdonald, Acting-Manager.
£JRITERZON THEATRE
Sole Proprietor Mr. John Solomon.
Under the Management of Messrs. Brough and Boucicault.
General Manager , .. Mr. Mayne.
Doors Open, 7. Overture, 8. Carriages, 10.25.
IMMENSE SUCCESS ! IMMENSE SUCCESS !
of the Unrivalled Comedy,
CASTE! C -A. S *X" 33 !
(By arrangement with Mr. Geo. Rignold.)
The Comedy produced under the direction of
Mr. DION BOUCICAULT, Jim.
Admission ... £2 2s. to Is.
Box Plan at Nicholson’s, Carriages at 10.25 p.m.
Joe Davis, Business Manager.
QPERA HOUSE.
Acting Manager ... Mr. P. Gunther.
Mr. CHARLES PALMER has the honour to announce
that he will commence a Season of Musical Comedy as
above with
“HANS THE BOATMAN,”
and respectfully draws attention to the notices gained by
him during seven months in Victoria and Tasmania.
Charles Palmer—“ Hans the Boatman.”
OPERA HOUSE, Ist MARCH.
JJ O N D I AQUARIUM.
The Most Popular
PICNIC and PLEASURE GROUNDS of AUSTRALIA.
The Famous Switchback Railway, conveying
Passengers from Cliff to Cliff daily.
Splendid Asphalt Open-Air Skating-Rink Free to Visitors.
Open Daily from 10 a.m to 10 p.m.
Admission, Is.; Children, 6d. Trams to Gate—Fare, 4d
rpHE CYCLO RAM A!
AMERICA IN SYDNEY I
Do not fail to see the marvellous battle-soene, truly
THE WONDER OF THE AGE, now on view at the
CYCLORAMA ROTUNDA.
The handiest show in Sydney—just opposite the Railway.
Take rail, tram or ’bus to the door.
WORDS CANNOT DESCRIBE IT.
Open to-day and daily, 10 a.m. to 10 p.m. Band Daily.
CYCLORAMA! CYCLORAMA I
Business Announcements.
THE BALLARAT COFFEE PALACE,
Ltdiard Street, Ballarat.
yISITORS to the Golden City will find everT
convenience at the above Establishment-
The Only Coffee Palace in Ballarat.
REID & SONS ... Proprietors.
Furniture, &c.
N
E W T O N AND LAMB.
FURNITURE and PIANOFORTE
WAREHOUSEMEN,
CABINETMAKERS, UPHOLSTERERS
AND
BEDDING MANUFACTURERS.
SHOW ROOMS AND MANUFACTORY:
SPRING AND O’CONNELL STREETS.
Full suites for dining-room—side-
board, DINNER WAGGON, TABLE,
OVERMANTEL, COUCH, EASY CHAIRS,
CARVING CHAIRS and DINING CHAIRS,
all to match. Newton & Lamb.
1 ELF-ADJUSTING HAMMOCK CHAIR,
Patented.
SB
1
_ This chair adjusts itself to any position, from
sitting to reclining and vice versa, at the will of
the occupant. It is simple yet ingenious in its
construction; works automatically. The above
cut represents only two of the numerous positions
that can be obtained instantly, and with but little
effort. It fits perfectly every part of the body,
and gives the occupant entire rest. We can now
supply portable suspension Stands to enable the
Chair to be used anywhere. Price, with Stand.
305.; without Stand, 255,
Packing in canvas, if required, 2s. 6d. extra
D
RAWING-ROOM SUITES, Fashionably
Upholstered, at all prices.
OCCASIONAL TABLES in all Woods. Im-
mense variety of designs; also, elegantly
finished in Embroidery, Plush, &c. Newton and
Lamb.
fflLi
w
ALNUT FALL
FRONT PEDESTAL
WRITING DESKS, of vari-
ous sizes, fitted with Shelves,
Moveable Pigeon-holes, Slid-
ing Trays, Stationery, Draw-
ers, revolving portable triple
Inkstand. Receptacles for
Stamps, and Ruler and Pen
Racks. Outside Drawers divided into compart-
ments by movable partitions to admit of enlarging
or diminishing the space when required. Looks
automatically. One of the most useful, commo-
dious, and perfectly-planned articles for the Library
or Office yet produced. Admirably suited to the
necessities of professional and business men.
WALNUT FALL FRONT SINGLE
PEDESTAL WRITING DESK.—
Internal arrangements almost identical with the
description given above. Price only £l2 10s.
t
Drawing-room
CABINETS.
Early English
CHIPPENDALE DESIGNS.
Newton & Lamb.
ţ
| all size
Nickel-plated and Black and
Brass. Great variety.
Bedding . All descriptions
at lowest rates.
Newton & Lamb.
ť
SPUING MA T-
TRESSES (Woven
Wire), best make; also,
Spiral Spring.
Price, from 7s. 6d. each.
CHEAP FURNITURE.—Pine Tables, from
10s. ; Dining Tables, from 20s. ; Kitchen
Dressers, from 225. tkl.; Washstands, from 12s. 6d.;
Chests of Drawers, from 405.; Wardrobes, from
80s.; Cedar Cheffoniers, from 30s. ; Cedar Side-
boards, from £3 35.; Clothes Horses, from
Bs. 6d. ; Writing Tables, with drawers, from 255.
m
C E CHESTS.
ALL SIZES.
PRICES LOW.
NEWTON and LAMB.
ŧ
-piXCELSIOR
upright;
IMPROVED
REFRIGERATORS.
Various Sizes, from 455.
N
EWT O N
AND LAMB
FURNITURE and PIANOFORTE
WAREHOUSEMEN,
CABINETMAKERS, UPHOLSTERERS
AND
BEDDING MANUFACTURERS.
Show Rooms and Manufactory;
SPRING and O’CONNELL STREETS.
An Australian Failure.
O listen to this woeful tale
Of imminent disaster:
Time flies along this Teary Vale
But prophecy flies faster.
Our vines and fruit-trees all did droop,
By moth or scale infested.
The rural man was in the soup,
His rural spirit bested.
M'Ooppin sailed the ocean o’er
In twenty ships, a pageant;
The Australian lady-bug he bore
The great remedial agent.
That insect here in swarms he frees
In orchards and in vineyards,
She eats moth, scale, and vines, and trees
To sate her monstrous inwards.
The land that was so fair and brave
Is, lo ! a desert arid ;
The people wish across the wave
JVTCoppin still had tarried.
So fare all who delusion hug,
And sport in arbors shady
With the Australian lady-bug,
And not the Australian lady.
S. F. EXAMINER.
Changes.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
The changes I’ve seen in New Zealand
No poet can picture in rhyme ;
Where flaxbush and cabbage-tree flourished
Big cities have grown in my time ;
Where swamps full of wild vegetation
Spread afar o’er the level domain,
The reapers and binders are busy
This day with their harvests of grain }
Where the forest was dark as a jungle
And daylight no glimmer shot through
There’s a wide street now blazing in sunshine
With fashions, the latest on view !
That new street, you see, straight and level
With traffic afoot and on wheels,
Many a day long ago have I gone there
To fish in deep water for eels !
And then, where that four-storey building
Stands square on its own solid ground,
That’s the spot where Jim Parson, the boatman,
Fell into the sea and was drowned.
His widow soon married old Pearson
(Same name, strange to say, with an “e ”) —
Now she owns all that big block of buildings
Worth thousands a year on the Quay ;
That long street there, see how it runs, sir,
Not straight, but with curves like a bay :
I remember when that was the shore-line,
Where porpoises rushed by in play,
See how far it is now from the water,
Streets crowded with traffic between,
The land-shark alone of all fishes,
The only one there to be seen !
•••••• I
Ah, the changes I’ve seen in New Zealand,
The ups and the downs to be sure !
How poor men got rich in a hurry
And rich men as suddenly poor ;
How men, so unkind to relations
That they frequently used them as food,
Took to wearing black coats and belltoppers,
Becoming most pious and good !
How ladies in Eve-like apparel
With trimmings of sunshine and smiles,
Left off wearing nothing particular
And dressed in the latest of styles.
These changes and also my baldness,
Which gives young colonials such fun,
Makes me wish myself back once again, sir,
In the year of Zealandia One.
ALEXANDER STUART.
Wellington, N.Z., Jan. 22, 1890.
The story goes that when Carl Onlich, the
Austrian, who imported a quantity of knuckle-
dusters and indecent cigarette-holders, was prose-
cuted at Melbourne City Court on the indecent
goods charge and heavily fined, there were 12
magistrates on the bench, and each magistrate was
handed an indecent cigarette-holder for examina-
tion. Detective Christie, however, was unable to
recover a single one of that dozen sample, and the
mystery is that no one knows what became of them.
A recent copy of Melbourne Standard
contains a violent attack on some soulless des-
peradoes who basely and inhumanly shot a number
of pigeons which had been turned out for exercise,
and concludes with a vehement wish that the
“cowardly brutes” may soon be brought to
justice. The very next 44 par.” below this,
unfortunately, was an effusive description of a
pigeon-shooting match, with the usual applause
for the valiant hero who blew the most birds to
rags and fluff. The line that separates the sport
big gentleman from the pigeon-killing ruffian in
this case is very thin.
“ A great sensation was,” we read,
“ created at the opening of the French Chamber
of Deputies by the appearance of M. Thivrier,
wearing over his frock-coat a blue blouse, like
those worn by the working-classes and peasants
of Franco. The Socialist deputy worked in a
mine for over 18 years, and was dismissed by
his chiefs for insubordination and revolutionary
tendencies. He then entered the wine-trade, and
had but little trouble in converting many of his
poorer customers to the theories of rabid socialism,
which he had begun to profess while still in the
mines.” Thivrier’s blue blouse is well enough, yet
ft merely conceals, does not abolish the frock-
coat. On the other hand, as previously remarked,
it may be regarded as a flag as well as a covering.
But, perhaps, after all, it may be as good as, or
even better than the frock-coat of the Australian
working man’s” deputy, which never conceals
but always supplants the blouse.
Dear Bulletin, —The following conversa-
tion took place in London, the other day, between
the writer and an intelligent, educated, and “ well-
informed ” member of London society. It’s a
trifle significant as showing the lively interest
taken in “ our glorious colonies” by the average
Britisher :—
Intelligent Britisher ; “ So you’ve only just
returned from the—a—Australia—now what may
be the chief topic of interest in those parts ? ”
(with an air as if referring to the wilds of Pata-
gonia or New Guinea).
The W riter : “Well, F ederation’s the question
of the day with us.”
I.B. : “ A—yes—let me see—Fed —what? ”
The Writer : “Federation (with marked, but
unnoticed, emphasis); in fact, it’s in the air.”
LB. : “ Federation, to be sure (with nervous
uncertainty), and—a—is it anything like our in-
fluenza ? ”
The Writer; “Not exactly (good humouredly
taking the joke (?), it has more to do with Parkes. ”
I.B. ; “ Ah, to be sure—an excellent provision.
Do you know (confidentially) we could do with
more open spaces in London also,”
The Writer (with cold dignity): “J refer to
Parkes, the grand old man of Australia.” (In a
“ we’ve got one also” tone of voice).
I.B. : “Tut, tut, of course—Mungo Parkes.
Why he discovered the whole concern, didn’t he?”
The Writer (disdainfully ignoring above):
“ His scheme of Federation is a sort of colonial
co-operative ”
LB, (excitedly) : “ I know, and it’d pay. Our
‘ stores ’ here are declaring a dividend of ”
The Writer (severely) : “ I mean a co-opera-
tion—that is, the Federation of the Australian
colonies for offensive and defensive purposes,
and
LB. : “ But surely the blacks are not as strong
as all that, eh ? I thought you’d got the upper
hand of ’em long ago.”
The Writer : “ Well, I must explain the situa-
tion to you at length ; in the first place—”
LB. (hurriedly): “ Well, my boy, I’ve taken two
tickets for a lecture to-night on ‘ The Prospects of
South Salamander Bondholders ’ —most important
and interesting subject (I hold a hundred) —time’s
up ; will you come ?”
And we went.
Advance Australia.
London, Jan., 1890.
A. G. Taylor will stand for Mudgee as a
Freetrader next election.
Messrs J. C. Ludowici & Son have received
“ First Award ” at the New Zealand and South
Seas Exhibition for their exhibit of leather
belting and machine leathers.
New Cure for Deafness.— Scientific Electro-
Medication. No Ear-drums. Self-applied and
painless. Advice, Pamphlet Free. Professor
Harvey, 145 Collins Street, Melbourne. Magni-
ficent testimonials.
Federation —lt is rumored, that, had it not
been for the wonderful vitality properties contained
in Herr Rassmussen’s celebrated Denmark Vitality
Pills, most of the Delegates attending the recent
Federation Conference would have succumbed to
the enermous strain on their nervous system, and
the much longed for Federation would have been
further off than ever.
Baruum, who doesn’t know Gladstone, had
the cheek to send him a greasy telegram on his
80th birthday. Which recalls the fact that Bill
Holland, an eminent London showman, once
bossed a wrestling-match in which a big French-
man beat the English champion, whereupon
Holland telegraphed the result to Napoleon 111.
who knew no more about the competition than the
man in the moon. And when some of Holland’s
friend’s said, “What cheek!” old Bill replied:
“ Why cheek, dear boys ? He is merely a Napo-
leon in his line, and I am a Napoleon in mine.”
Whereupon everybody dried up instantly.
Lithgow, a pretty little township nestling
in the heart of Lithgow Valley, with its busy
rolling mills, extensive pottery works, smelting
works, and active coal mines, attracts many
visitors, who are at times at a loss to know at
which hotel to stop. We would direct them
to Wallace’s Royal Hotel, the leading hotel
of the place, whose genial host is sure to make them
feel at home. You will find nothing but the best
liquors on the shelves, and good horses and
vehicles to convey you to any part of the valley or
mountains. Commercial travellers will find the
largest sample-room on the Western line and the
table supplied with the best the market affords.
CONUNDRUM.
In Centennial Park, with pleasant talk,
Two jolly friends beguiled their walk,
When casually they chanced to spy
A creature curious to the eye.
Says one, “ This is a lonely creature,
So beautiful in form—unique in feature.
Yet stranger still, one may claim,
Than form and feature is its name.”
Why says the other, “ How can this be ?
But senseless lingo it seems to me.”
The first replies, “If you but think,
You’ll see a certain kind of drink—
I know the problem’s here.”
In his pocket was St. Louis Beer.
Land at Perth, W, A., the best investment.
Plans from Intercolonial Investment Co,, Ltd.,
116 Bathurst-ttreet, Sydney.
Bona-Fide announcement. Highest cash price
given for all kinds of gent’s left off clothing.
Dress-suits for sale or hire. Letters promptly
attended to by QUITTENTON BROS., Ill
Russell street, MELBOURNE. (New number,
163.)


Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
When next, yon bake try Pemell’s Snow-whitr Patent
Roller Flour, and your bread will be as white as snow.
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
Write for plans £lO Building sites, Perth,
Western Australia. Intercolonial Investment
Company, Limited, 9(5 Bathurst-street, Sydney.
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
Govoraimcnt Advertisements.
Department of Public Works,
Sydney, February 25, 1890.
Tenders for public works and
SUPPLIES.
For Conditions, see Government Gazette,
BRUCE SMITH.
Notice to Artistic ancl Literary Contributors
Strictly Original matter contributed to Tub Bulletin
will be paid for. The Editor will he glad to receive and
consider contributions as under : —
1. Original humorous or political matter, illustrated or
otherwise. (Drawings must be made in clean lines
of Indian ink on tvhite paper or Bristol-board.)
2. Unpublished anecdotes of living celebrities, or people
who ought to be celebrated.
3. Humorous poems (from eight to forty-eight lines pre-
ferred.
h. Serious poems, of similar or greater length, especially
those suitable for pictorial illustration.
5. Short Australian or other stories, up to, say, 3000
■words. About half that length, or even less, will
be preferred.
All Contributions must be Written Legibly, on One
Side Only of the paper, and folded, not rolled. The
name and address of the tvritcr must appear, in all
cases, on the 3tS. itself, and not merely on an accompany-
ing letter or paper. The, Proprietors do not hold them-
selves responsible for Dejected Contributions; but, if
accompanied by a stamped and addressed envelope or
wrapper, every effort ivill be made to return them.
The Editor does not undertake to enter into any
correspondence respecting rejected Manuscripts.
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
Jules Verne says that when the trans-
Siberian railway is finished it will be possible to
“ put a girdle round the earth ” in forty-five days.
A report last week gained currency at the
Tweed River (N.S.W.) that two wild men, clothed
in naught save Nature’s garb, had been captured
in the woods and conveyed by steam-launch to
Tumbulgum village. The facts were that a sur-
veyor and his assistant had been flooded out of
camp, took passage by steam-launch, and advan-
taging themselves of the supposed absence of lady
passengers to divest themselves of their drenched
garments, deposited same in a spot where
they would be soon dried. But the steam-
ing-boiler overdid its friendly office, and in a few
minutes a smouldering heap alone remained. . . .
Later, two forms wrapped in tarpaulin were
hustled into the nearest local hotel.
“On the 4th instant, Mr. O’Connor, ac-
companied by two postal and four telegraph in-
spectors, visited Garden Island and Cockatoo.
They were received by the mayor of each munici-
pality and sumptuously feasted. Mr. O’Connor
has decided on establishing two post-offices at
Garden Island and a post-office at Cockatoo, and
tenders will be invited for a daily mail service by
steamer between the two places, and for a double
telegraph cable to be laid as the present telegraph
communication is altogether insufficient. The
party then visited the site for the new Eiffel
tower, and the question of opening a post and
telegraph office, under the charge of a telegraph-
official, will be at once considered. ” —Sydney daily
paper of next week.
A big joke out West is the return of the
“exploring” party from Queensland for want of
funds. The country “explored” is all taken up
and stocked, and one hundred and fifty miles
beyond the Mulligan, the furthest point they
reached, the blacks acted the good Samaritan
many years ago to a whiteman under the follow-
ing circumstances. A party from Allanageer
station went out with a bullock-waggon looking
for new country, and a stockman named Pender
breaking a leg, he stayed with the blacks in prefer-
ence to travelling in a waggon with the broken
limb. The myalls did the correct thing by him,
and when the bones had knitted they constructed
a litter and carried him home to Allanageer, a
distance of one hundred and fifty miles.
General Post Office.
Sydney, 17th February, 1890.
ATTENTION is directed to Gazette Notice
inviting Tenders for the conveyance of
mails between Eauabalong and Lake Cudgellico ;
Richmond and Agnes Banks (Yarramnndi); Cargo
and Canangles ; Wilson’s Downfall and River-
tree ; Molong and Peak Hill.
Tenders will be received up to sth March next,
and must be addressed to the Secretary to the
Post Office, Sydney.
DANIEL O’CONNOR.
/'COUNTRY STOREKEEPERS, ETC.
'-Y Should write or call -upon
A. M. MARKS & CO.,
—lmporters of—
Furniture, Pianofortes, Glass, Earthenware,
CHINA, FANCY GOODS, ELECTRO-PLATE,
Clliilts il TOBACCONISTS SINOKIES
SOLE AGENTS FOR
Dawn Cigars and Salonica Turkish Cigarettes.
Special Novelties in all Lines for Christmas Trade.
Prices on Application to —
.A.. IVSC. IMIEL-E-iSLS >Ss Co.,
Vickery’s Buildings, 74a Pitt Streeet, Sydney,
AND AT LONDON.
Telephone, No. 019.
COMMERCIAL TRAVELLERS, TOURISTS, &c.
o
ROYAL HOTEL, LITHGOW,
The leading resort for
Commercial Travellers, and Tourists.
The Largest Sample Rooms on the Western Line. Horses and Buggies for Hire
Nothing hut the Best Brands of spirits sold over the bar.
Hugh Wallace, Proprietor. Late of Wallerawang.
Ask for the
Unequalled
“DAWN” 3d. CIGAR,
M
W
ss^
Of all
Tobacconists,
Store
AND
Hotel
KEEPERS.
Wholesale Agents: A. M. MARKS & Co., 74a PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
DAWSON’S
Sole Agents for Australasia
VAUGHAN, EOGERS & 00.,
(Opposite G.1’.0.)
108 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
p
E
R
F
E
C
T
I
O
N
WHISKY,
BUB-AGENTS WANTED
IN TUB
PRINCIPAL CENTRES
THROUGHOUT AUSTRALASIA.
K.f
v, IT
n
■
ir
a
LIOI
itfSOAP
mw
Is made with the utmost care from materials
which are
Selected with the Greatest Regard for Rarity
and for the
SOOTHING- Si BENEFICIAL EFFECT
Which they impart to the Skin and Complexion.
Sold by all Chemists and Dealers in
Toilet Requisites.
DR. SCOTT'S
GENUINE ELECTRIC APPLIANCES
DE. SCOTT’S
ELECTRIC BELTS
DE. SCOTT’S
ELECTRIC CORSETS
DE. SCOTT’S
ELECTRIC HAIRBRUSHES
DR. SCOTT’S
ELECTRIC FLESH-BRUSHES
DE. SCOTT’S
ELECTRIC TOOTHBRUSHES
DR. SCOTT’S
ELECTRIC INSOLES
DE. SCOTT’S
ELECTRIC TEETHING NECKLACES
DR. SCOTT’S
ELECTRIC HAIR-CURLERS
DR. SCOTT’S
ELECTRIC CORSETS AND BEL’BS
are universally approved by leading physicians as
the best, safest and most effectual remedy for
Spinal Complaints, Incipient Consumption, Diar-
rhcea, Pleurisy, Tumors, Asthma, Bronchitis,
Epilepsy, Lumbago, Debib iy. Dropsy, Paralysis,
Loss of Voice, Hysteria, Cutaneous Diseases,
Nervousness, Backaches, In- ' restion, Palpitation,
etc., and have cured some o; the most obstinate
and distressing cases after all remedies (so-called)
have failed. Send for Illustrated Circular and
Price List, sent free to any address on application.
Pall Mall Electric Association,
62 Maboakkt Street, Sydney.
p.o. Bo* vr
MR. CHARLES HECHT,
(Manager Pfahlert’s Hotel, Sydney).
The garden-pavilion at Pfahlert’s Motel,
Wynyard-square, Sydney, was thrown open, last
week, to the public, on which occasion Manager
Hecht, late of the Melbourne German Club, the
Charing Cross Hotel, London, and many well-
known Continental caravanserais, entertained a
large party of friends and many members of the
Press. The out-door place of refreshment has
come to stay, and Mr. Hecht is but the pioneer of
a common-sense movement that will by-and-bye
be spread throughout the length and breadth of
Australia.
A southern paper thinks, “as regards the
science of irrigation, America may fairly be con-
sidered as the foster-mother of Australia.” The
Bulletin disputes the assertion. If it was an
American who invented the “ John Collins” —
which it wasn’t —it was an Australian who in-
vented “tanglefoot,” and a Queenslander who
invented “strike-me-dead.” Irrigation? Ask
the Federal Conference. Parkes hain’t got hover
’is banquet ’eadhache yet.
Daniel O’Connell used to tell a story about
one Brown, a dissolute friend of his, who, having
no money one day and wanting a drink, waited
upon an undertaker, his face buried in a handker-
chief, his voice inaudible from emotion. The man
ran for a decanter of wine; Browne drank and
was relieved. He asked several questions about
scarfs and hat-bands, coffins, hearses, mutes, and
coaches. The undertaker assured him that he
would provide all. Browne at last stood up to
leave. “ But you have not told me where lam to
find the remains,” remarked the undertaker.
“You said you would find everything—find the
body,” exclaimed Browne, as he left the house and
rapidly turned the corner. This incident has since
been fathered on “ Dundreary” Sothern.
The mention of the name of Dom Pedro,
the exiled Emperor of Brazil, in the presence of
“Don’t Blow ” Trollope used to have almost the
same effect on him as the sight of a red rag on a
bull. When Trollope was one of the principals at
London General Post-office it fell to his lot to
show the Emperor over the department. Trollope,
the most vain of mortals, bad just bowed his Im-
perial Majesty to his carriage, and was pluming
himself on the manner in which he had accom-
plished his task, when an aide de-camp stepped
up, and, desiring to shake hands with Mr. Trollope,
left him standing on the foo'path with a couple of
florins in the palm of his h ind. Anthony Trollope
met with many rebuffs in his life, but nothing
could ever approach the horror with which he was
wont to refer to Dom Pedro’s recognition of his
services.
At last it is achieved—there is little doubt
that the Duke of Connaught becomes Commande’r-
in-Chief of the English army. Good old Warm
ing-Pan Cambridge ! The good Queen weeps for
joy. Look at Winterhalter’s grand painting of
that brave old snob, the Iron Duke, giving Prince
Arthur such a pretty present, a £lOO play-box, set
with diamonds or something, on his first birth-
day ! Ho was called Arthur after His Grace the
Commander-in-Chief, and, of course, it meant
that he was designed from his golden cradle, with
the silver spoon in his mouth, to be Commarider-in-
Chief. It is amusing to read the newspaper
criticisms, proving that Connaught is fitted to
supersede Wolseley and Roberts precisely because
there is nothing in him. But Germany and
France don’t put nonentities at the head of their
armies, to replace their Mol tkes and Manteuffelsand
Chanxys and Faidhei bes. Wolseley is a dangerous
man, and his admiration of U.S. Republicanism
will increase now that he is swindled out of the
command. Two thousand a year is his miserable
pay, against the £OOOO to be given to the Royal
Clothes Horse.
Australia, and Sydney particularly, will
welcome Best, the veteran and masterly organ-
player. Wo would like to have had him bef re,
for he is G 8 years old, and Time has thinned his
flowing hair, while his keyboard fingering and
pedalling has the mellowness of rare old wine.
The travelled Australian may have heard the
Cathedral organs of Milan, Seville, and Haarlem
touched up, but he will plump for Best at the
Albert Hall. Just upon 30 years ago Best affected
a complete reform in organ-building. He was the
first practical Bach enthusiast in England, but
the rival organists of Best’s early time, such as
Goss and Turle, could only play Bach by a sort of
vamping process, professionally known as using
the clavier. This was through the bass being all
done with the left hand, whereas Bach relegates
the bass to the pedals, making them another key-
board. Best’s playing may be compared with
bantley’s singing. He has caused an entire re-
construction of the organ in England, so that
Bach can be played away ad libitum. We have
not had in Australia hitherto a man great on the
organ, for it is a conservative sort of instrument,
nailing a man to it like a pet elephant.
THE VERY BEST.
A single pain is often the first indication, and
the last throe, in one, of a physical climax, and
the climax is death. That St. Jacobs oil has again
and again wrought its miracles just in the nick
of time, has bridged over the critical emergency,
and has
SAVED MANY LIVES
at the point of death, is fully attested by the
record of many extraordinary cures in which this
fact of saving life is duly set forth.
If to its remarkable virtues in the permanent
cure of chronic cases of Rheumatism, Neuralgia,
Lumbago, Sciatica, after years of endurance,
wherein everything else proved valueless, fortunes
were spent in vain, and crutches and crippled
limbs were the manifestations, is to be added its
supreme sovereignty over pain, even unto death,
it is wholly entitled to the appellation of
THE VERY BEST.
Its specific action is especially adapted with a
curative penetration and soothing effect, to arrest
any pain at the acme of its worst influence. St.
Jacobs oil applied externally is now known as the
best specific to arrest the fatal tendency of any
aggravated pain.
A MOST REMARKABLE CASE
can be cited in proof, which is thoroughly verified.
It is in its main features taken from a leading
Liverpool paper as follow: —“Two years ago,”
states Mr. William Buchanan, residing No. 8, St.
John’s-road, Kirkdale, Liverpool, and 24 years in
the service of the Cunard Steamship Company,
“ I was taken down with a most excruciating pain
in my head, which was followed by
ONE YEAR OF TORTURE.
All physicians believed that it would lead to
softening of the brain and death. Six of the
most eminent attended me, but gave no relief. I
had to be held down, and my screams were heard
oritside. My case was deemed incurable. . My
wife procured a bottle of St. Jacobs oil and
applied it to my head. It acted like magic. I
was cured by it and am how in perfect health,
and I have not had the slightest return since I
was cured some months ago.” Nothing more need
be added.
THE THREE WATERBURY WATCHES.
Watches that keep time and watches that impress
the bystanders with a sense of their intrinsic value
when they are hauled out of the pocket are as far
apart as a dray wheel and a skyrocket. The
Water bury s are the timekeepers.
“Series E.” is the best form of the original
Waterbury. A good, cheap, serviceable watch,
with nickled case, stem-winder, and runs 28 hours
with one winding. These are made by the best
automatic machinery. Price, 13s. 6d.
“Series J.” is the new Waterbury. Short-wind,
stem-set, enamelled dial, with seconds-hand,
jewelled, duplex escapement, same diameter as
“Series E.,” but not so thick. Price, 22s. 6d., or
with patent dial, 20s.
“Series L.,” the Ladies’ Waterbury, is the
latest, and is a short-wind, stem-set, enamelled
dial, jewelled, duplex escapement watch, smaller
than “Series E.” and “J.” Price, 22s. 6d., or
with patent dial, 20s.
In Australia, as in Europe and America, the
sale of the new series (J. and L.) Waterburys
since their recent introduction has been quite
phenomenal. Ask your dealer to show them to
you.


Business Announcements.
PRIDDY & CO.,
Hats made to Order-
MANUFACTURE
mm hatM
Mercery
Mprley’s Hosiery.
438 George Street, Sydney.
Branch— 67S George Street, Brickfield Hill.
PROBLEM OF TO-DAY -WHERE CAN WE GET GOOD
BOOTS ?—solved at last.
#«!! . Jb* Jtri. .x-ef CJ XX
(The French of years ago)
Can supply Residents here with Boots better made than
ever. Boots that must wear well and give satisfaction.
Send your orders then to 82 Oxford Street, and be sure
to enclose Sizes and Remittance, when your parcel will be
sent at once by Post, Rail, or Steamer.
Notice Prices for Boots that looß well, wear well
and fit well.
Children’s Elastic-sides, 2/-, 2/11, 3/0, 4/-, 4/6, etc \ Best
Men’s & Youths’ ditto, 5/6, 6/-, 6/6, 7/0, 8/6, etc. ) Bools
Men’s & Boys’ Bluchers, 2/11, 4/-, 5/-, 6/-, hist ever made.
A Line of Stylish Lured Boots for Best Wear
(Boys’, Youths’ and Men’s Sizes).
IST ENGLISH BOOTS for LADIES, CHILDREN, etc.,
Sent as ordered. Lowest Price.
Satisfaction given or Money Returned.
Note the Address:
eclipse: soot co. t
83 Oxford Street, SYDNEY.
E. French, Manager.
J. liUDQWICI &
Manufacturers and Importers of
Superior Oak-Tanned Leather Belting,
And every description of
Leather goods for Machine and Engineering Purposes _
Hydraulic
Leathers.
683 V
Tangye Pump
Leathers.
All goods bearing the above Trade Mark are warranted to
give satisfaction, or may be returned at our expense.
Office and Factory: 162 Clarence-St., Sydney,
Between King and Market Streets.
TO ADVERTISERS.
We undertake the advertising of large business
houses —filing every paper advertised in, checking
appearances, and watching the interests of our
clients. We can save you money, time and
anxiety. Write for our pamphlet “ How to
Advertise, and Why.” F. T. WIMBLE & CO.,
Newspaper Advertising Bureau, Basement A.J.S.
Bank, 369,371 & 373 George-st., Sydney. Estimates
given for any number of papers by return mail.
DOWS
rvEMBRO CATION^:!
'AW
,T
"w
m.t
/
11
'VEVERXWHfRE
t
Eucalvptl Oils
-la m r 5
> Etl
II
4
/■ '*
Vi-
%
%//P‘
w.
%
Efj
1
Mili
*r>
THE TREE OF LIFE.
Ntfsafffisss-'ffi-
Victory Ointment^
The only pure Encalypte In the World.
AWARDED Gold Medal Adelaide Jubilee
, Exhibition. First Pi izo Great Centennial
Exhibition, Sydney. The only known CURE for
Asthma, Bronchitis, Consumption, Pleurisy,
Colds, Coughs, and all affections of tho Chest and
Lungs; also, for Gout, Rheumatism, Sciatica,
etc. Our VICTORY OINTMENT stands with-
out a rival for Bad Legs, Bad Breasts, Cancers,
Tumours, and skir. diseases of all kinds. Also,
manufacturers of tho Eucalyptc Pills, Encalypte
Hair Restorer, Eucalypte Soap, and our world-
famed Encalypte Honey is tho best preparation
before tho public for young Children and aged
people. Also, makers of the Eucalypte Lozenges
for the Voice. Manufactorj— Cootamundra.
Sydney Wholesale Depot—2sl Elizabrtii Stukkt
Posted tp any part of tin Colon'cs. Sold Eve y-
where. BkWauk of Imitations.
lETis fZG Hotel, Sydney.
I
tar •
r-’
.
Vl.
Y-
ygt
f
w
t» -■
CLl*
.
Adjoining the Sydney Exchange.
Mining, Financial and General Mercantile Intelligence
Posted several times DAILY in the Bull ing.
TELEGRAPH, POST and MONEY ORDER OFFICES on the PREMISES.
This Hotel has been thoroughly renovated and re-furnished, and is now unrivalled for comfort
ind attention.
Aarons’ Exchange Hotel Co. (Limited), Proprietors.
TO HAIRDRESSERS.
rF you want any requUite in connection with the trade send to CRAIG- & A ITKEN,
who are in tlie trade themselves and know what is required. Drop us a line 01 give us a call, and
we will fix you up as regards price. They have in stock :
'lairdressing Chairs (American and Colonial), Shampooing Basins, Taps and Apparatus,
lot Water Urns, Mirrors, Barbers’ Polos, Aprons, Cutting Clothes, Haokels, Pressing,
Crimping and other Irons, etc., etc. in fact, everythin ; you w;,nt.
Just Arrived.-A Largo Shipment of all sizes DROWN & SHARPE’S HAIRCLIPPERS.
Every Brand of RAZOLti and SCISSORS kept.
We engage Competent Assistants for any part of the Australian colonies, and guarantee they will
>0 First-Class Workmen, as we thoroughly lest them in our own saloon before sending them.
("-
Send for Price List to their Only Addr' ss :
iBO & 682 George Street, Brickfield Hill, Sydney.
hft 0
nJliUr;
r?j24^.
Si*
fe«?^igSP3^
.- :.. ” - ., _■
tl-tOTRIO PHOTO ENC. CO-.JJpiDCE-ST,. SYDNEY.
The Oxford Hotel, King Street, Sydney.
H. THOEPB ... ... ... IVoikiktok.
JONES’ SEWING MACHINES,
FOR THE BOOT AND TAILORING TRADES.
The Best Manufacturing Machines in Existence*
Now Perfected, the New No. 3 and No. 4 Machines on an Entirely new System.
stock: just Xj_a.tntdinsrg-.
Farlelgli, HXT ettlielm, & o 0.,
TANNERS AND LEATHER MERCHANTS,
16 x yoniC x STREET, x SYDNTEY.
Solo Agents for the above for Now South Wales and Queensland.
—(>S)— , .
AT,SO Importers of Requisites for the ROOT MAM At T I HINO TRADE in all Details, inrlndins'MAOltlNEßY
IMPORTED LEATHERS, &c. ; and of the follow I>.k livuai, Links: Peerless litoss, Sul in Polish, Nubian
lllavKlmr- Tanners’ Tools and Materials. S* r " Indents Executed on Favourable Terms.
Medical.
DR. RICHARDS.
ROOWf
L.TIN
CONSU
' t
n n
rr RICHARDS -
aiitiniltlUliSTiuMiiluumiiumT
n
r
--if*
. .1 |IMr4B«T!3R
This eminent Specialist, Founder, and Chief
Surgeon of the long-established and favourably-
known Dispensary that now bears his name, re-
ceived his medical education in the leading colleges
and hospitals of Europe. He has devoted a life-
time to the study of
PRIVATE, NERVOUS, AND SKIN
DISEASES,
lie has by profound research thoroughly investi-
gated their origin, traced their deadly sources and
insidious dissemination, and ascertained the surest
and safest methods by which they may be eradi-
cated, with the c widely recognised qualifications
combined with unswerving faithfulness to hi I
patients, he has during his practice, extending
over FORTY YEARS, attained a well-deserved
pre-eminence in their treatment. His practice
embraces d senses which probably cause more un-
happiness than any other class of troubles that
afflict mankind.
YOUNG MEN
who suffer from the results of early follies, trans-
gressions or excesses of more nature age, bladder
difficulties, a whitish or dark ropy sediment in
the water, accompanied by slight burning or
smarting sensation, 1 leadaches, Drowsiness during
the day, circles round the eyes, Giddiness,
irregularity of the bowels, specks before the eyes,
ba-hfulnc s, discon'entedness, weakness or pains
in the back, L ver or kidney complaints, dreams,
fuzzing noises in the ears and head, pimples, a
fen" that something dreadful is about to happen,
weak ttomach, yellow or blood-shot eyes, impure
blood, hasty, uncontrollable temper, hacking
cough, who ca- not marry, nervousness in society,
wakefulness, palpitation of the heart, general
weakness, and other symptoms which lead to in-
sanity and death, should consult him, for he has
mastered these d fllculties. On receipt of (id. in
stamps he will send secure from observation in a
plain wrapper, postage
FREE, A LARGE CLOTH-BOUND
BOOK.
Showing plainly how all diseases of the private or
nervous system may be cured thoroughly and per-
manently without unnecessary expence. This
book will prove a valuable companion, and even
though you bo perfectly well its general inform-
tion and prescription may assist you in restoring
some poor friend to health even after his case has
been pronounced incurable by his medical at-
tendant.
ONE POUND IS SUFFICIENT TO
SEND
for Remedies necessary for the cure of NER-
VOUS DEBILIT Y. Should you require medical
treatment, as procrastination is sometimes dan-
ger on s, it would be advisable for you to sit down
quietly in your chamber and write to the doctor,
detailing every experienced symptom. Ho will
on receipt of such a letter, write you, promptly
and courteously, a candid and straightforward
oponion of your case. If you do not think you
understand the case, send for his famous medical
work, the price of which is but sixpence ; enclosed
in the volume will be found a 1 st of carefully-pre-
pared questions, which will, in all probability,
assist you materially in describing your ailment,
Dr. Richards uses nothing but the purest remedies,
and never prescribes mercury under any circum-
stances. The moment letters are carefully per-
used and answered they arc destroyed by Are,
and patients may rest assured that their cases
will remain a secret between the doctor and
themselves. Dr. Richards has successfully treated
nearly 25,000 cases since coming to Australia, and
has permission from at least 10,000 persons to
show their written evidence of his success. All
communications should bo addressed
Dr. RICHARDS,
7 Spring street
(Off Pitt Street North)
SYDNEY.
Bo sure to mention this paper when writing
CONSULTATION I’REE.
HOW IT CAME ABOUT.
ABEL : “Well, Cain, is this hot enough
for you?”
From a Woodcut found in an Ancient Volume.
—N.Y. LIFE.


Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
Everybody should use Pemell’s latest best Snow-white
Patent Roller Flour. It is the greatest success of the
age.
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
Nota Bene ! In addition to their High Class old
Wines, Messrs. Hookings & 00., of 410 George-street, have
accepted the agency of the Australian Wine Company,
Limited, for their superior cheap wines.
At a meeting of the council of the National
Agricultural Society of Victoria, the other day, a
letter was received from an up-country kindred
society stating that “several copies of the
Bulletin would be forwarded in due course.”
The letter referred to some doubtless invaluable
agricultural publication, but the council looked
mystified, until one of them remarked soberly:
“ But we always pay for our Bulletins.” Where-
upon the president replied ; “ Oh, you mean the
Sydney Bulletin; this is a somewhat different
,” but the room was roaring.
Shipping.
TTNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF NEW
ZEALAND, Limited.
SAN FRANCISCO ROYAL MAIL SERVICE.
OVERLAND ROUTE TO ENGLAND VIA SAN
, FRANCISCO AND NEW YORK,
Calling at
AUCKLAND and HONOLULU,
Avoiding alike the heat of the Red Sea and the cold
of Cape Horn.
Under Contract with the Postmasters-General of New
South Wales and New Zealand, the steamers of this line
are appointed to leave Sydney and Auckland for Honolulu
and San Francisco every four weeks, sailing as under; —
Each steamer carries a duly qualified surgeon.
These steamers are fitted with Electric Light and with a
Refrigerating Chamber for ship provisions, insuring a
plentiful supply of ice throughout the.voyage.
Passengers are booked to San Francisco or through to
European destinations and have at San Francisco choice of
the unrivalled Atlantic Steamship Lines of the Cunard,
Inman, White Star, and other companies.
All first-class passengers are allowed 3501 b. of baggage
to San Francisco and 2501 b. “ Overland ” free of charge.
THROUGH FARE TO LIVERPOOL.
FIRST-CLASS £63 to £66.
Time-cards, railway maps, and gu'de books, showing all
routes to any point in the United States, may be had on
application
For rates of passage and freight and all other informa-
tion apply at the Company’s Offices, 15 Bridge-street.
FREDK. W. JACKSON, Manager.
NEWEST INVENTION GREATEST NOVELTY.
raw
THE
Y*N
PATENT DIAGONAL SEAM CORSET,
Patented in England and on the, Continent.
Win not Split In the Seams nor Tear In the Fabric.
Exquisite Model. Perfect Comfort. Guaranteed Wear.
The Queen says:—“These Corsets are a new departure. The material is cut on the
cross and the Component parts being also arranged diagonally, the seams have no strain.
They’ are admirably modelled, exquisitely neat and strong, and the workmanship all
that could be desired.”
Gold Medal, New Zealand Exhibition, 1882.
Gold Medal (Highest Award for Corsets), London
International Exhibition, 1884.
Latest Award ! Gold Medal, International
Exhibition, Edinburgh, 188«.
CAUTION.— Beware of worthless imitations.
Every genuine Y & N Corset is stamped
“Y & N PATENT DIAGONAL SEAM
CORSET, No. 116,” in oval.
ţ
Sold by all Dr apers’ and Ladles’ Outfitters in the United Kingdom and Colonies.
LICH.TNER & CO.
SYDNEY:
318 GEORGE STREET
BRISBANE
9 ELIZABETH STREET
PHOTOGRAPHIC
-STOCK-
IMPORTERS.
K
m
'* L** * V* 4
6PT SEND FOR OUR NEW ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE lEJi
—OP—
CAMERAS, LENSES, CHEMICALS, MAGIC LANTERNS
And all Articles appertaining to PHOTOGRAPHY.
f - ):(■
CHEAP AMATEUR OUTFITS.
Shipping.
J£H“UDDART, PARKER and CO.’s LINE.
STEAM TO MELBOURNE AND
TASMANIA.
FROM HUDDART, PARKER’S WHARF:
FOR MELBOURNE WHARF DIRECT—
Burrumbeet | 4000 tons | Saturday, March 1, at noon.
FOR LAUNCESTON, VIA MELBOURNE—
transhipping to S.S. NEWCASTLE.
Burrmnbeet | 4000 tons | Saturday, March 1, at noon.
These magnificent St earn slops have already established
a reputation for their accommodation, and their large s ze
insures passengers a maximum of comfort. The SALOON
CABINS are light and airy and very roomy. FORE-
CABIN is on main deck, lofty and well ventilated. Com-
plete sanitation and lavatorn s. ELECTRIC LIGHTING
throughout the ships. Inspection invited on days of
sailing.
RETURN TICKETS AVAILABLE FOR SIX MONTHS.
For rates of Freight and Passage-money apply
HUDDART, PARKER & CO., Limited.
Offices and Wharf —Foot of Margaret-street.
BJBASMANIAN EXCURSIONS.
The splendid
S.S. ELINGAMITE, 4000 Tons,
will sail as under for HOBART DIRECT.
ELINGAMITE, Tuesday, 4th March, at 5 p.m.
GREAT REDUCTION IN FARES.
SALOON £lO 0
RETURN 1 10 0
STEERAGE .. 0 10 0
RETURN TICKETS AVAILABLE FOR SIX MONTHS
Also GREAT REDUCTION IN FREIGHT.
HUDDART, PARKER & CO, Limited.
Office and Wharf—Foot of Margaret Street.
NORDDEUTSCHER LLOYD.
IMPERIAL GERMAN MAIL.
Passengers are carried according to the requirements of
the English Passenger Acts of 1885 and 1863.
MONTHLY LINE OF DIRECT STEAMERS
from
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, and ADELAIDE,
to SOUTHAMPTON, ANTWERP, and BREMEN, via
COLOMBO, Aden, Suez, and Genoa,
taking passengers for London,
connecting from PORT SAID by DIRECT MAIL and
PASSENGER LINE to BRINDISI,
will be despatched as follows (if practicable):—
And thereafter every four weeks.
PASSAGE MONEY from SYDNEY,
£l4 to £57 10s.
RETURN TICKETS, available for NINE and TWELVE
MONTHS, at REDUCED RATES.
Passengers and Cargo are booked through to New York,
via Southampton.
Special facilities are afforded for bringing out relatives
and friends from the United Kingdom and Europe by pre-
payment of the passage money in Australia.
For FREIGHT, PASSAGE, and all further particulars,
apply to FREDK. BETZ & CO., Agents, 5 O’Connell-street.
J-JIRECT SERVICE TO ENGLAND.
PENINSULAR AND ORIENTAL STEAM
NAVIGATION COMPANY.
The Company’s Royal Mail Steamships (under contract
with the Imperial, New South Wales, Victorian, and South
Australian Governments) will be dispatched from their
Wharf, Circular Quay, as under, for LONDON, calling at
Melbourne, Adelaide, Albany, Colombo, Aden, Brindisi,
Malta, Gibraltar, and Plymouth.
And henceforth every alternate week.
RESERVED CABINS ON, MODERATE TERMS.
SALOON PASSENGERS MAY BREAK THEIR JOURNEY.
The arrangements for SECOND SALOON PASSENGERS
having been thoroughly re-organised, the accommodation
now offered is unsurpassed. Passage-money can he paid
here for passages from England. Liberal concessions made
to families. Passengers, cargo, and parcels are booked
through to India, China, and Japan. Cargo and parcels
will not be received after 3 p.m. on the day previous to
sailing. For all information apply at the Company’s
Offices, 247 George-street. A. MACLEAN Acting Agent.
COMPAGNIE DES MESSAGERIES MARI-
TIMES.
SYDNEY to LONDON.
OVERLAND FROM MARSEILLES via PARIS.
Steamers under postal contract with the Government of
Prance, calling at MELBOURNE ADELAIDE, KINO
GEORGE’S SOUND, MAKE, SUEZ, and PORT SAID.
Passengers hooked to KURRACHEE, BOMBAY,
MAURITIUS, and EAST COAST of AFRICA.
The service is carried on by powerful steamers of 4000
tons and 3000 effective h.p., built expressly for the Aus-
tralian and New Caledonian line, whicli will be despatched
as follows; —
Steamers.
Commander.
Leave Sydney Leave Mel-
at 11 a. m. bourne4p.ni
YARRA .. Boullard .. March 25 March 28
AUSTRALI’N iDidier .. JApril 25 April 28
And thenceforward on the 25th of each month.
Rates of passage-money to Marseilles from £2O to £65,
including table wines and Suez Canal dues on passengers.
RETURN TICKETS issued at the following rates
English interpreters meet through passengers for
London on arrival of steamers at Marseilles, and accom-
pany them to Paris and Calais. N.B.—Passengers' luggage
conveyed tree of cost from Marseilles to London. For
freight, passage, and further particulars apply at the
Company’s Office, 15 Macquarie-place.
A. CONIL, Principal Agent.
CIRCULAR QUAY, SUSSEX STREET, &
DA RLI NX} lIA RRO UR ,
WO O L BROKERS,
Hides, Tallow, Sheepskins, Kangaroo, Bear and
Opossum Skins, <Cr.
atjgtioWeees.
CHEt-A-UOW S-A-X-.E S TVTI3 IST.
The Ways of Fire Brigades.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
BY X.
It se&ns that the unspeakable fireman has
0 ice more started out on a soul-subduing career
of smash and decimation, amid the wreck of
matter and the screams of species. “ Proceedings
are to be taken against the firemen who collided
with a tramoar on Saturday,” says a Melbourne
telegram. It must have been a glorious sight, this
surging mass of disciplined heroes dashing on-
ward in their course of extinction like the over-
whelming simoom behind a flying poppin-lace,
and finally ricoehetting off a tramcar—a brave
sight, which only the development of science has
rendered possible. The opportunities of the fire-
brigade have widened with the process of the
suns. Once it was counted a good evening’s ex-
citement to frighten a horse, or run into a spring-
cart, or dismember a Chinese vegetable hawker,
in addition to anything that could be done to the
other fire-brigade fellows. In that paltry past I
have seen a whole posse of helmeted giants exult-
ing over the mere destruction of a locomotive hot-
pie establishment which was being wheeled across
the road by a deaf man who escaped unhurt.
Such miserable crumbs of enjoyment sufficed them
then and were accepted thankfully. How dif-
ferent is it now ! how splendid are the possibili-
ties of the fireman at the present time ! Popula-
tion has thickened : for one human being who
might be caught unaware on the highway and
galloped over with pomp and circumstance there
are now a dozen —omnibus-drivers, with swaying
loads of outside passengers, throng the streets, and
most magnificent of all, there are tramcars to be
dealt with.
* * *
Time was when the salt of the fireman’s
life consisted in getting there before other firemen
and being quite ready for them when they came.
When the alarm bell rang out at midnight (or
about four o’clock a.m., if the fire had been
elaborately thought out) ; when the insurance-
director shuddered and drew the blanket over his
head to shut out the fearful sound, the fireman
sprang to his feet in full armour and rushed forth
as at a signal for Greek to meet Greek with the
joy of conflict expanding his soul. Was he not
of the Imperial Determined Demons, and had not
the time possibly arrived when the City Squirters
were to be overcome and humbled in the sight of
men ? When the red flames licked the hollow
bottom of Heaven, and terror and noise reigned
all round, the fireman of the past never allowed
his presence of mind to desert him. To get pos-
session of the best, or the only, available position,
to hold it against the world and prevent any other
brigade from getting a footing, was the primary
object ; the next best thing was to upend the op-
position engine, cut their hose, assault their
captain, oust them and take their place. In a
Victorian town I once saw an unchecked confla-
gration rage for a quarter-of-an-hour while rival
brigades fought to a finish over the delicate
question of precedence. I have seen a bril-
liant display of the cross-buttock, the
“undercut,” the “prop” direct, and the
promiscuous “job,” performed by two citizens
meeting on a burning balcony-verandah 30ft. above
the street who had not enough light to perceive
tliat they were members of the same brigade. But
in all the annals of fire-brigade splendour and
heroism nothing has yet equalled this, which, I
believe, happened in America. Two brigades,
between which a mortal enmity had existed for
months, met at a huge city fire. The captain of
Number-one shot the other captain on sight, and
was bowie-knifed before he could lower his smoking
weapon. Things were level so far, but some dis-
organisation followed, during which many of both
sides were slain without prejudice. Ultimately,
after some few persons of various ages and sexes
had been consumed by fire, Number-one brigade
was beaten off the field, and Number-two set to
work on the front of the burning buildings. One
of the firemen, in clambering along the roofs
towards a back street fell and broke both his arms
and legs. It was impossible for him to escape ;
the flames were approaching on three sides, and
lie knew that in the wooden sheds beside which
lie lay a large quantity of kerosene was stored.
Suddenly a fire-brigade appeared at the opening
of the cul-de-sac, a hose was drawn partly down it,
and the men began to play on the flames that were
now close to him. He took in the position at a
glance. It was the remnant of Number-one,
which had sneaked round to the rear. The fire-
man was mangled, fainting, and half-roasted, but
for one supreme moment his great soul rallied.
His life was at stake, but so was the honour of his
brigade, and he chose between them instantly.
He managed to shake his reeking bowie-knife
from its sheath, and, picking it up in his mouth,
writhed painfully along in the shadow of the wall
until he came to the hose. Holding the haft be-
tween his teeth he worked it across the canvas
tubing until the water gushed forth, and then
lay awaiting his doom with a smile of ineffable
content !
# * *
Gradually, however, the principle of mutual
elimination is being divorced from fire brigades
and wedded to football and parliamentary debates.
Of late years it is no uncommon sight to see them
working together against a common enemy, instead
of turning their glittering nozzles squarely upon
one another. There is still some rivalry and
bitterness, however, and Melbourne has lately
been convulsed by a protean effort to amalgamate
the brigades, which was overthrown on the im-
portant question of who was to be made superin-
tendent. But, as I have shown, the chances of
fun with the public at large are much better, and
they can afford to spare one another. Let it be
understood that whatever is here written by way
of “ chaff ”—which, and more than which, has
been well-deserved in the past—l don’t for a
moment undervalue the fire-brigade as an institu-
tion, or its members as excellent public servants.
The business part of their lives involves continual
alertness and preparation, and their’s is not the
calling that a physical coward would pick out of a
lot. They may occasionally run over a man or
two, or break something, but then they are
generally in more or less of a hurry, and they don’t
value their own lives more than anyone else’s. I
1 have stood by sometimes (generally a good way off
— say, across the street) and seen them crawl along
tottering walls and do things that would make a
balloon-jumper’s flesh creep, for just so much a
week, and think nothing of it. Many a fire-
brigade man performs acts, not once, but often, in
the way of saving life which, if performed in the
way of destroying it, would secure him the Victoria
Cross— if he cared about taking it.
* * *
But there is really a preposterous side
about fire-brigadeism as well as a splendid one—
the noble and the absurd run into each other
sometimes. One night I was in a suburb of a city
by the sea—no matter what city or what sea—
when an alarm of fire was raised. A public meet-
ing was in progress, at which the utter incqm
potency of the existing Government was being
pointed out in passionate language and the heated
audience urged to arise and save the country.
Then the bell rang, and the people poured out to
save what they could of it just then. It was found
that the alarm was a false one—like the political
one, perhaps. An old bachelor in a smpking-cap
had been burning some rubbish in his garden;
that was all. He was roundly upbraided and
bidden to be ashamed of himself for deluding
respectable tax-payers and fathers of families, and
causing delay in the salvation of the country, but
he only chuckled and lighted another pile. Then
the crowd went back, and the orator of the evening
had got in another half-hour or so of denunciation
when the sound of turmoil and cries and galloping
of fiery-footed steeds arose without. Ouee more the
people scrambled out in wild haste, It was the
local fire-brigade, which had realised that some-
thing must be up, and was going forth to do or
die. It was in frantic haste, and in order to
economise time and keep up appearances, the
captain was endeavouring to put on his official
coat as he ran, an exhibition of ardour which was
received with tumultuous derision by the public.
* * *
Afterwards I had the honour of being present
at the burning of an ecclesiastical building—no
matter where it was, either. There was a
wretched lack of enthusiasm about the whole
thing, until the fire-brigade came. The roof had
caught fire, and someone observing this had told
someone else—who had afterwards forgotten all
about it—to telephone to the fire station. By and
by, however, the fire became so serious that
the people next door telephoned, and in a_few
minutes the brigade came round the corner with a
clatter and a rush, in charge of a mighty person
in a helmet, who consisted largely of distended
chest. In the,meantime the public had been at
work breaking open book-cases and lugging out
charred busts of bishops, and shrivelled volumes
of theology. Personally I can boast of having
rescued somebody on “The Efficacy of Prayer,”
somebody else on “ Manifestations of Divine
Wrath,” and some third party’s “ Sacred Medita-
tions,” in half calf, while another enthusiast, in try-
ing to throw a bucket of water up to a ceil-
ing twenty-feet high, seriously damaged the
Thirty Nine Articles and his own clothing.
The captain assumed his King Cambysses
vein, and took hold of things. It was not
much of a fire, and they had it out in half-an-
hour, all but some few odd sparks. But the
manner of the captain was portentous enough for
a conflagration of the first magnitude. If the
whole city had been aflame his commands could
not have been given in more stern and terrible
tones. “Ho!” he would shout to some wet
myrmidon within a few feet of him on the roof,
“Knockoff that shingle—not that one, I wont
have that one knocked off—the other ! ” It was
very impressive and authoritative, and everybody
felt that the Devouring Element had found its
master at last. Everybody, at least, but an in-
discreet curate who asked one of the firemen :
“ Do you think you can put it out?”
“ Think ! ” was the scornful answer—it is only
fair to the fireman to say that he had not time to
notice that his questioner belonged to the “ cloth ”
—“ Think! I think the captain could put out
hell—if he could get at it! ”
“ I must congratulate him, and myself, and
humanity in general, then,” said the indiscreet
curate.
“What dy’e mean?” growled the fireman,
rooting a half-incinerated copy of the Revised
Version out of the debris.
“ Oh that he’ll be the right man in the right
place, some day, that’s all ! ”
A Fragment.
In fifty keels and five,
Rush’d over the pirate swarm,
Hornets out of the Northern Hive,
V Hawks upon wings of the storm !
Blood upon talons and beak,
Blood from their helms to their heels,
Blood on the hand, and blood on the cheek,
In five and fifty keels.
O, fierce and terrible horde,
That shout about Ovy the Dane ;
Clanging the shield and clashing the sword
To the roar of the storm-tossed main.
And hard on the shore they drive,
Ploughing through shingle and sand ;
And high and dry those fifty and five
Are hauled in line upon land !
And woe to the patriot Manx,
The right overthrown by the wrong ;
For the sword hews hard at the staggering ranks,
And the spear drives deep and strong.
And Ovy the Dane stands proud,
King of the blood-stained field,
Lifted on high by the shouldering crowd
On the haltered boss of his shield !
Who would dream that these vigorous lines were
extracted from a poem penned by the author of
“ Proverbial Philosophy?” They were, however.
Tupper wrote them for recitation by Walter
Montgomery.


'tar READ - THIS ! Two Pounds’ (£2) worth of these preparations sent free to any part of the colony.
Armstrong’s Citron Saline, for cooling and purify ing the
blood. An aperient effervescing salt. 2s j 18s doz.
Armstrong’s Blood Purifier or Anti-Scorbutic a valuable
remedy where the blood has become vitiated through
residence in hot climates, with usual consequences of
bad water, deficient vegetable diet. 2s; 18s doz.
Armstrong’s Compound Sarsaparilla with Dandelion, lodide
of Potash, &c., for all impurities of the blood. 2s; 20s doz.
Armstrong’s Eye Lotion for Blight and other inflainmatoi.t
affections of the eyes. The proprietor has received
numerous testimonials for cures effected by this lotion
when all other means had failed. Is; 8s doz.
Armstrong’s Sugar-coated Anti-bilious Pills, An infallible
remedy in cases of indigestion and other complaints
arising from an inactive liver. Is; 8s doz. .
Armstrong’s Diarrhoea Mixtures gives instant relief in this
troublesome complaint. 2s; 18s doz.
Armstrong’s Cough Elixir. An immediate cure for colds,
I coughs, influenza, &c. 2s; 18s doz.
Armstrong’s Podophyllin Pills, for liver complaints, im-
purities of the blood, &c. Is; 8s doz.
Armstrong’s Phosphorous Pills, for Nervous and General
Debility, &c. Is; 8s doz.
Armstrong’s Anodyne Liniment (or Pain Paint) for bruises,
sprains, rheumatic pains, &c. 2s; 18s doz.
Armstrong’s Cough Balsam, for chronic pulmonary affec-
tions and lung diseases. 2s; 18s doz.
Armstrong’s Golden Eye Ointment, for blight and all
diseases of the eyes. Is (id; 18s doz.
Armstrong’s celebrated Ointment for Piles. 2s;
18s doz.
Armstrong’s Iron and Quinine Tonic, for loss of appetite,
Nervousness, General Debility, Neuralgia, &c. 2s.
Armstrong’s Pepsiue Bismuth and Nux Vomica, for
chronic indigestion. 3s Cd &ssCd ; 30s & 58s doz.
Armstrong’s Quinine Wine. A most reliable brain and
nerve tonic. 2s Cd; 20s doz.
Armstrong's Podophyllin Seidlitz Powders. A mild and
pleasant aperient. Is Cd; 15s doz.
Armstrong’s “ Arabian Ointment.” For healing all sores,
old wounds, burns, etc. (in pots). Is; 8s doz.
Armstrong’s Corn Paint and Solvent, for painlessly
removing corns, bunions, warts, &c. Is; 8s doz.
Armstrong’s Toothache Drops and Carbolic Nervine, for
immediate cure of toothache. Is; 8s doz.
Armstrong’s Resin, Carbolic, Zinc, Dine, White and Red
Percipitate Ointments (in boxes). Cd ;5s doz.
Armstrong’s Dandruff Pomade, for eradicating scurf, dan-
druff, &c., from the hair. Is ;8s doz.
Armstrong’s Arabian Hair Renewer, for restoring grey
hair to its natural colour. Is 6d ; 12s doz.
Armstrong’s Indelible Ink, for writing on linen, silk, and
muslin. Is; 8s per doz.
Armstrong’s Lima Juice and Glycerine. A valuable
preparation for the hair. Is &2s; 8s & 18s doz. _
Armstrong's Transparent Cement (Cohesuline) for china,
glass, wood, leather, &c. Gd Is ; 5p &8s doz.
Armstrong’s Carbolic Tooth Powder antiseptic. Is; 8s doz.
Armstrong’s Disinfectant, Carbolised Powder (in tins),
for drains, etc. 9d &Is (id ; (is (id &' 12s doz.
Armstrong’s Sore Back Ointment forhorses. 2s; & 18s doz.
Armstrong’s Carbolic Dressing, for outs and wounds
among stock. Is &Is (id ; 8s & 15s doz.
Armstrong’s Blistering Ointment - the best remedy for
splints, curbs, etc. Is (id; 13s doz.
Armstrong’s Gold Paint, Copper, Silver and Green Bronzes,
for decorating your home ornaments, statuary, &c.—
all ready mixed. Od ; 8s doz.
'WENTED MANUFACTURED and SOLD ONLY by H. C. ARMSTRONG, George Street NORTH (Near Circular Quay), SYDNE
■'* ’ Trusses Belts Supports, Elastic Stockings, Knee Caps, etc., at English Wholesale Cost. The Largest Stock
FOR DRUGS, CHEMICALS, PATENT MEDICINES and DRUGGISTS’ SUNDRIES, SEND FOR SPECIAL PRICE LISI (POSTED 1 RLE).
Ticket-Collector (to passenger m brst-class
carriage with second-class ticket): “ \ our ticket
is second-class, sir. You must pay the difference.
Passenger ; 1 ' The second-class carriages were full.
Collector: “Yes, but there was plenty of room
third-class.” Passenger : “ Quite so. Pay me
the difference and 111 change."’ —Alleged to he
English, hut obviously Scotch.
No man is ever thanked for predicting
disaster. “Elijah” Egeson, a subordinate at the
Sydney Observatory, who foretold a three years’
drought for New South Wales from the end of
1890, was laughed at by Minister for Educa-
tion Carruthers and the daily press, and soundly
rated by his official boss, astronomer Russell. It
is well to remark that Mr. Egeson prophesied
that there would be exceptionally heavy rains and
floods last winter, and that the summer of 1889-90
would be about the wettest on record. As both
these prophesies have been borne out, what price
the drought ?
From the concluding chapter of Edgar
Baltus’ “ Anatomy of Negation ” :
“There is no help there, nor is there any elsewhere*
The Orient is asleep in the ashes of her gods. The star of
Ormuzd has burnt out in the skies on the banks of her
sacred seas: Greece, hushed for ever more, rests on the
divine limbs of her white immortals. In the sepulchre of
the pale Nazarene, humanity guards its last divinity.
Every promise is unfulfilled. There is no light save
perchance in death. One torture more, one more tbiob
of the heart, and after it nothing. The grave opens, a
little flesh falls in, and the weeds of forgetfulness, which
soon hide the tomb, grow eternally above its vanities.
And still the voice of the living, of the just and the unjust,
of kings, of felons, and of beasts, will be raised unsilenced,
until humanity, unsatisfied as before, and yet impatient
for the peace which life has disturbed, is tossed at last,
with the shattered globe and forgotten gods to fertilize
the furrows of space where worlds ferment. On this ' ista
the curtain may be drawn. Neither poet nor seer can
look beyond. Nature, who is unconscious in her immor-
tality, entrancing in her beauty, savage in her cruelty,
imperial in her prodigality, and appalling in her con-
vulsions, is not only deaf but dumb. There is no answer
to any appeal. The best we can do, the host that has
ever been done, is to recognize the implacability of the
laws that rule the universe, and contemplate as calmly as
we can the nothingness from which we come and into
which we shall all disappear. The one consolation that
we hold, though it is one that may be illusory too, consists
in the belief that when death comes fear and hope are at
an end Then wonder ceases, the insoluble no longer
perplexes, space is lost, the infinite is blank, the farce is
done.
The stoveship “Wye” is again on her way
to Ascension in order to provide turtle-soup for the
Queen and the Admiralty. Meantime thousands
die from hunger.
The World styles Stead’s new venture
(“the Review of Reviews”) “Fagiu’s Miscel-
lany”; another writer calls it “ Liebig's Extract
of Literature,” and the Globe declares it to Ire a
superior sort of “Tit-Bits,” and avers that a
better name would be the “ Magazine Rifle. ”
A religious paper states that “ during the
last eight years three or four millions of persons
have been asked : ‘ Have you ever known an ex-
ception to the rule that God prospers those who
give him a tenth of their income ?’ And not one
negative answer has been received.” This is pro-
bably a lie; if there were any truth in it, “giving
to the Lord ” would simply be looked on as a solid
and remunerative investment. Moreover, the
giving of a tenth to a man with a large family and
a small wage would mean the going without some
necessary ; to a millionaire, merely the writing of
his name. Heavenly allotments are not to be
purchased by tenths, anyhow.
¥ HOT aud COLD'
Seawater Baths,
Warrnambooij, Victoria.
HYGIENIC, CURATIVE.
Curbs
SCIATICA, RHEUMATISM,
Nervous & Skin Diseases.
Testimonials from all parts of the
Colonies.
Water direct from Southern Ocean
pumped by gas motor, retaining all
natural qualities; free from objec-
tions of Bay water. Large swim-
ming basins for ladies and gentle-
men, Marble plunge baths, hand-
somely appointed. Bracing air,
charming scenery, fishing, shooting,
beautiful drives place Warrnambool
i in the front rank as a sanatorium, y
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
NOW ACKNOWLEDGED
THE BEST
IN THE MARKET
M.W.S.C2
WHISKY
firfe- SOLD 'r'k 1
EVERYWHERE
PFAHLEET’S HOTEL,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.,
Opposite the Park, Wynyard Square.
(Under New Management.)
THIS for 25 years well-known First-class Central Hotel,
recently thoroughly renovated throughout, has every
comfort and attention of a home. The Cuisine Department
is under competent French supervision. Dining Room
open for Non-Residents. Opsn-air Recreation Garden.
A well-ventilated Billiard Room adjoining Recreation
Ground (three Alcock’s best Tables), under the manage-
ment of A. Buckingham, late of Empire Hotel. Wines
and Spirits of the very best quality only, and the Finest
and Coolest Bar in Town.
HOT AND COLD BATHS.
M<;ilT I’OKTKK. French 1
German
Telephone No. 150, Italian J
Spoken.
SPECIAL SUITES FOR FAMILIES.
CHAS. HECHT ... Manager.
GUNTHER’S BRISBANE CAFE,
George Street (below Hunter-st.), Sydney.
171 RED. GUNTHER, late of the Wheatsheaf Hotel,
Castlereagh-st., is desirous of informing his patrons
and the public Generally that ho has now become pro-
prietor of the BRISBANE CAFE, GEORGE STREET.
These premises arc commodious, and every convenience is
obtainable. None but liquors of the (ir-t quality retailed.
Two of Alcock's Prize Billiard Tables provided. Files of
sporting and dramatic papers kept. Special accommoda-
tion for the theatrical profession.
MRS. MENUETT, living in Sydney, please
send your address to THOMAS HINDS,
Criterion Theatre, Pitt and Park Streets. Anxious
to see you, as I am leaving for China on 11th
March.
Fetieratioia. Cliaff.
Prime OATEN CHAFE, I
Purchaser to find bags. f
4/- per cwt. Cash
Prime OATEN CHAFE,
Bags Free.
}
4/0 per cwt. Cash.
Fresh every day. Our own cutting. Quality guaranteed
RYE STRAW, 4/- RYE STRAW, 4/-
The Cheapest and Best Produce in Sydney.
CITY PRODUCE CO.,
Hay Street, Hayniarket, SYDNEY.
EW SOUTH WALES AWARDS AT THE
CENTENNIAL INTERNATIONAL
EXHIBITION, MELBOURNE, 1888.
The Executive Commissioner (The Hon. R.
Burdett Smith, C.M.G., M.L.C.,) desires that it
be notified for the information of New South
Wales Exhibitors that AWARD MEDALS
(First Degrees of Merit only carrying such medals)
are NOW READY FOR ISSUE from his Cham-
bers, 169 King-street, corner of Elizabeth-street
(upstairs), and that they can be had on personal
application to the undersigned, between 10 a.m.
and 3 p.m. daily, to 1 o’clock on Saturday ex
cepted. Certificates of FIRST AWARD just
received by Executive Commissioner. Those for
City Exhibitors can be had on application.
Arrangements will be made for the distribution
of those intended for Country Exhibitors.
ALEX. GUMMING
Secretary for Distribution,
Great Medical Reform!
Consult (FREE) HERR .RASSMUSSEN, the Celebrated Danish Herbalist
Expert Specialist in all Private Complaints, Barrenness and Nervous Diseases.
u 1
DENMARK
%
%
*
\
$
%
s
%
ť
ŧ
I
0
s
T
V
!
T
A
L
I
T
y
t
-0
ţ
otl0 tl
:0^
$
0
'(0
ŧ
Restores’
ITALITY
A Guaranteed Cure
for
Nervous Debility and
Lost Vitality.
225. Cd. per Course.
Smaller Box ss. 6d.
That has received
Only Herbalist in Australia
“Gold Medal” for Great Cures Performed, and is Honourably Mentioned in the “Centennial History of New South Wales ’’
for Great Herbal Discoveries ; and who can prove that he has CURED OYER 20,000 PATIENTS.
Sole Proprietor and Discoverer of the Celebrated
DENMARK VITALITY FILLS, Registered,
Which have been the means of Curing so many Thousands of Sufferers from Nervous Debility, Lost Vitality, Errors, Weakness, Despondency,
Impure Blood. 225. bd. per Course ; Smaller Box, ss. 6d.
Grexiuizie Testimonials.
To HERR RASSMUSSEN.
Dear Sir,—This is to certify that you cured me of a very serious blood
disease, after many doctors had failed. —JOHN REYNOLDS, Chappel-
street, Leichhardt, Sydney.
To HERR RASSMUSSEN, the celebrated Danish Herbalist.
Dear Benefactor, —
I have much pleasure to inform the public that you cured my wife of
an internal complaint of a very serious nature, after all the doctors had
given her up.—ARCHIBALD MACFARLANE, Eden Cottage,
Barney-street, Armidale.
To HERR RASSMUSSEN, Specialist in Nervous Diseases.
Dear Sir,—l hereby thank you for the great cure you performed on
me for a very complicated nervous affection, and I shall always recom-
mend you to sufferers from Nervous Debility.—PHlLLlP STEAD,
54 Parramatta-road, Annandale, Sydney.
To HERR RASSMUSSEN, Danish Herbalist.
Dear Sir and Benefactor,—lt gives me great pleasure to testify
to your wonderful skill in the treatment of Disease. You cured me of a
terrible complaint after the doctors gave me up, and although it is four
years since, lam as well as ever. I shall recommend you to al'.—Yours,
gratefully, A. RAMSDEN, Great Western Coffee Palace, Castlereagh-
street, Sydney.
-x
To HERR RASSMUSSEN, Specialist in Nervous Diseases.
Dear Sir, —1 hereby certify that I have been under your skilful
treatnent for a very obstinate case of nervous debility, and that you
cured me with one course of your Vitality Pills.—D. M‘NETLL,
Hornsby Junction, N.S.W.
Opinions of the Press.
It is a well-known fact that HERR RASSMUSSEN, the Cele-
brated Danish Herbalist, has performed many great cures during the
past few years, as his numerous testimonials will prove.
—Sydney Bulletin.
HERR RASSMUSSEN.--We have been shown some excellent
Testimonials of the great cures performed by Herr Rassmussen, the
celebrated Danish Herbalist. — Australian Star.
HERR RASSMUSSEN has now been established in the colonies
for 10 years.—Sunday Times, April 28, 1888.
HERR RASSMUSSEN has become a celebrity in the curing of all
diseases of the nervous system. His name has become a wonder through-
out the Southern Hemisphere. He was presented with a Goll M dal for
some of his miraculous cures.— Balmain Leader, May 12, 1888.
HERR RASSMUSSEN.—The remarkable cures which ho has
effected aie pretty generally known. — Balmain Observer, April, 28, 1888.
We are perpetually receiving letters from HERR RASSMUSSEN’S
cured parents requesting, us to make known to .the pub ic the wonderful
medical skill this remarkable man possesses, and he has just been pre-
sented with a gold medal from several of his cured patient*.
—Sydney Weekly News, May 20, 1887.
HERR RASSMUSSEN’S HERBAL REMEDIES
( Registered)
DENMARK VITALITY PlLLS.—Guaranteed to cure nervous debility, Lost
Vitality, Errors of Youth and Despondency. Price, 225. (id. per full course ; small
box, ss. (id,
DENMARK FEMALE RESTORER PILLS.-Guaranteed to cure ail complaints
peculiar to Females, Irregularities, and eradicates complaints which cause barren-
ness Price, 225. Od. per course ; small box, ss. 6d.
LOOK CURE PlLLS.—Guaranteed to Cure all diseases of the blood, discharges,
sores, and strictures. Price, 225. (id. per course, small box, ss. (id.
CONSULTATION AND ADVICE FKEE.
AH the above remedies are made of PURE HERBS, and are forwarded unobserved. A valuable treatise on Nervous Debility, Private Complaints, and Barrenness, sent
on receipt of 4d stamped addressed envelope. Consultation personally or by post, free. Patients are examined with the aid of the Microscope.
Address :
Herr RASSMUSSEN, the Danish Herbalist,
Corner Gordon-atreet & Parlt-road, FadLdington, Sydney.
TEAMS —Take Paddington Train to Elizabeth-street, Paddington.
DENMARK
&
%
%
%
V
%
£
&
A
'I
%
T
ft
t
ţ
V
!
r
h
i
i
T
V
MlCOj
:h# h
<0
n
itolfcnl
,,'r# 1
i
'{o
Wi
tanti
ITALITY
A Guaranteed Cure
for
Nervous Debility and
Lost Vitality.
225. 6d. per Course.
Smaller Box ss. 6d.
THE SYDNEY CATERING COMPANY,
(T ,te Gunsler’s Cafe)
X 7 5 Pitt ©Tjr e e S y c3L n© y,
IVJSH their former Patrons and the Public Generally to know that their Saloons have been Entirely Kkorganlskd, and shall be
iheir new cusine a trial.
lad if they will give
JAMES C MABQDAND, Manager-


“The leading Tacket Tea in New South Wales
is the Famous Billy Tea. Its Consumption is
at least double that of any other brand in the
market.”
PACKED ONLY BY
James Ixiglis & Co.,
4 & 0 Dean's Place, SVDNEV.
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
Photography. —Charlemont and Co. (vice-regal
photographers), in the Royal Arcade, beg to an-
nounce that they have now reduced the price of
their Cabinet Photographs to One Guinea per doz.
any style —bust, vignette or three-quarter figure.
Messrs. Charlemont feel assured that this reduc-
tion in price will meet the many who refrained
from sitting in their studio, solely on account of
the price hitherto being higher than they might
care to pay. Grosvenor Galleries, Royal Arcade.
Building Hites, City of Perth, W. A. Plans
Intercolonial Investment Co., Limited, % Bathurst-
street, .Sydney.
A literary treat for Australians abroad
and for absent friends of Austx-alian readers of Thk
Bulletin : “A Golden Shanty—Australian stories
and sketches in pi’ose and verse by Bulletin
writers.” The brightest, best and most original
shilling book ever published in this country. Send
it to your English friends whom Sladen’s Anthology
has distrusted. One shilling postage in Australia
SJ. extra.
Medical
tt
■o
a
'at
I
\
r\l
3
s ,
r
'/
y.
9
/
infantile Loveliness
No mother who loves her children, who takes
pride iu their beauty, purity and health, and in
bestowing upon them a child’s greatest inherit-
ance, — a skin without blemish, and a body nour-
ished by pure blood, should fail to make trial of
the Cuticuka Remedies.
Cuticuka, the great skin cure, and Cuticuba
Soap, an exquisite skin beautifier, prepared from
it, externally, and Cuticuba Resolvent, the new
blood purifier, internally, are a positive cure for
every form of skin and blood disease, from pimples
to scrofula, from infancy to age.
Have been in the drug and medicine business
twenty five years. Have been selling your Cuti-
cuba Remedies since they came West. They lead
all others in their line. We could not write nor
could you print all we have heard said in favor of
the Cuticuba Remedies. One year ago the Cuti-
cuba and Soap cured a little girl in our house of
the worst sore head we even saw, and the Resolv-
ent and Cuticuba are now curing a young gentle-
man of a sore leg, while the physicians are trying
to have it amputated. It will save his leg and
perhaps his life. Too much cannot be said in
favor of Cuticuba Remedies.
S. B. SMITH & BRO., Covington, Ky.
Sold everywhere. Price: Cuticuba, 50c. ; Soap,
25c.; Resolvent, $l. Prepared by the Potteb
Deug and Chemical Co., Boston, Mass.
ť
Skin, scalp and hair preserved and beau-
tided by the use of Outicura Soap.
When six months old, the left hand of our llttlo
grandchild began to swell, and had every appear-
ance of a large boil. We poulticed it, but all to no
purpose. About five mouths after, it became a
running sore. Boon other sores formed. He then
had two of them on each hand, and as his blood
became more and more impure, it took less time
for them to break out. A sore came on the chin,
beneath the under lip, which was very offensive.
His head was one solid scab, discharging a great
deal. This was his condition at twenty-two months
old, when I undertook the care of him, his mother
having died when he was a little more than a year
old, of consumption (scrofula of course). He could
walk a little, but could not get up if he fell down,
and could not move when in bed, having no
use of his hands. I immediately commenced
with the Cutictjba Remedies, using all freely.
One sore after another healed, a bony matter
forming in each one of these five deep ones
just before healing, which would finally grow
loose and were taken out; then they would heal
rapidly. One of these ugly bone formations I pre-
served. After taking a dozen and a half bottles he
was completely cured, and is now, at the age of six
years, a strong and healthy child.
Mrs. E. 8. DRIGGS,
612 E. Clay St., Bloomington, 111.
jjcg= Send for “ How to Cure Skin Diseases, ■’ 64
pages, 50 illustrations, and 100 testimonials.
PIM
PLES, blackheads, red, rough, chapped and
oily skin prevented by Cuticuba Soap.
Addi •ess :
K. TOWNS & CO., SYDNEY,
Business
Announcements.
HIGHLY IMUTRITJVE
MAY R£ OBTAINED IN LABELLtU HNS Qft,PAIIKEIB JHROUfiHQLjTLTHELQLUNY.
caiunnavian
Cold Medal
Acknowledged
The Best
The Pitiful Tale of a Cronk.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
There was woe in the house of Jaek Juggins, and
Grief clamoured loud in the street,
Standing nigh to the doors of the tavern; to some
such a case means a “ treat.”
It was stated by some of the neighbours, and
certainly they ought to know,
That poor Juggins lay dying—at any, or every
minute might go.
Had he friends? No one knew, no one cared ; he
was but a penniless dog ;
Such a wreck you would scarcely imagine, he’d
set all the neighbours agog.
“ Send for Robbins,” at last said a woman ; “my
man Bill has told me as how
Jack was once very good to that party; perhaps
he’ll remember him now. ”
He was sent for; and soon there came pacing a neat
little pony and trap ;
In a grief-stricken whisper the neighbours ob-
served, “ He’s a good sort of chap,”
As he mounted the rioketty staircase and entered
the chamber of death.
He observed on a queer sort of pallet poor Jack,
fighting Death breath by breath.
“ Hullo, Bill! ” “ What cheer, Jack ! Is it really
as bad as they want to make out ? ”
“I’m a‘dead bird,’ old boy; you can back me;
you’ll win, not a shadow of doubt;
But I’m glad you are here at the finish, to feel the
last pulse of my heart,
Tho’ I’m just like a thoroughbred racehorse that
ends up his days in a cart.
I have nothing to leave but these tickets ; they’re
musty—no, don’t tear them up,
They have served to remind me how Dandy did
not win the Waratah Cup.
Ah ! that was my chance, but it slipped me ; well,
let all the bygones go by
Just for once, and once only in lifetime, a tear
stood in Robbins’s eye.
“Dear old pal, you’re ‘a gcrner,’ I see it, it’s a
fact as can’t be suppressed,
So I’d like, if you’d spare me a minnit, to lift off a
load from my chest.
I ain’t ’appy, altho’ you may fancy I’m ’earty and
’ale as a monk;
I’ve (a-tapping his chest) I’ve a secret.” And here
comes the tale of a cronk.
“lam one wot deserves all y’r pity. It’s true I’m
in rude, lusty ’ealth,
And my pony and trap tells yer plainly I’m
absolute stinkm’ with wealth ;
They all know me as ‘Robbins the bookie,’ the
public, poor mugs, round me flock
While I skin ’em, and fleece ’em as reg’ler as
’ands cirkilate round the clock.
Then at billiards, or pool, or at ’azards, I don’t
think I’m wrong wen I state
At the lot, or at nap, or at solo, I’m gener’ly
reckoned Ho Fate !
So you’d think that a chap so accomplished, the
world, so to speak, at ’is feet,
Would at least feel at ease and contented; but,
Juggins, that’s just where I’m beat.
I am ’ornted inside by a speckter; no matter
wherever I roam
Wy I feel like I’ve ’ad a week’s racin’ where hevery
fav’rite got ’ome !
It’s all owin’ to that there ’orse Dandy, you owned
and I trained ’im, you know,
And we made up our minds for a coop, as the
French say, and often laid low.
On the man who owns ’orses and runs ’em straight-
forward I look with contemp’
As a bloke who may have lots of money but from
int’leck’s total exemp’.
Oh ! this in-an’-out runnin’ is lovely. My word !
wot a lot of it’s done !
And the way as they don't take no notice, the
stooards must jine in the fun.
But I frivvle : come, let me be ser’ous. Our ’orse
ran as stiff as a crutch,
Till the public would stand ’im no longer, and
never at no price would touch
Sich a hotter imposter as Dandy. So one day you
hups and sez you:
‘Do yer think we can win with the stiff ’un ?’ I
arnsers straightforward, ‘ I do.
Here, you just take a glarnce at the hentries.
‘Mr. John Juggins’s Dandy; six eight.’
Wy, the Waratah Cup is a moral; ’e’ll win in a
walk, and that’s straight.’
Ar ! I knowed wot you’d waited and worked for,
for all as you thought yerself smart;
Wy you wanted to win a snug forchun and marry
the gal of yer ’art.
Ton my soul! but that gal was a stunner; as
gentle as mornins in spring;
And a voice like a hangel’s; believe me, I used for
to weep wen she’d sing.
Yes, Jack, I’ve an ’art wot is tender, and many a
time it ’ud melt
Wen she’d give me a glarnce with her bloo eyes.
Ar ! Jack, you don’t know wot I felt.
It was henvy, pale henvy, I tell yer, though ’atred
and malice was barred ;
Yet to think as you’d won the affection I burned
for ; old pal, it wos ’ard.
Do yer mind that there day in the paddiek? We
wos watchin’ old Dan ’ave a spin
When we ’card the gate creak on its ’inges, and
who above all should come in
But Miss Gertrude. I sees yer as plainly, as plain
as the rings on rny ’and,
How you flushed and you trembled with pleasure.
(Them ways I can not understand.)
Your arm seemed to be in a fidget, and ’er waist
seemed its natural place,
And ’tworn’t long ’fore it got there I reckon. Sez
she, with a smile on ’er face,
‘Jack, I’ve come for to kiss dear old Dandy, I
think ’twill bring luck if I do ;
And in case you’re inclined to be jealous, wy
there ! there’s a wee one for you.’
Oh ! the light that shot into your optics ! I sor it
in yourn, Jack, and hern :
They may boast of this nooly-found ’lectrick —it’s
odds on Old Lovelight to burn.
Then she said, ‘Jack, I wants yer to prommis,
if Dan wins or loses the Cup,
That for my sake you’ll let alone racin’.’” (Har !
catch me a-givin’ it hup !
But that’s Rentery noo, as the French say.) “I
see ’er a-pleadin’ so ’ai’d,
Until presently Jack, you consented : you always
appeared a soft card.
* If 1 don’t give it up may I lose yer,’ and you looked
up aloft to the gods-,
Ar! a wife against racin’, I tell yer, them there
was a terrible odds.
Well, just then I indulged in a wision. I seed all
the angels with wings
A-floatin’ around you and Gerty a-singing of ’ims
and such things ;
There wos some playin’ ’arps, some with cornioks,
and trumpets wot some of ’em blowed,
But be’ind me arose a black shadder, and larger and
larger it growed.
Oh! the things wot it whispered, my earin’ was
stunned by its groosum adwice
’Ee’s luckier nor you, come, now ain’t ’ee? And
doesn’t sweet Gertie look nice ?
Wont they be a nice cupple together; and wont
Dandy win ’em a ‘ pot ’
Out o’ which they’ll retire to a cottage, and leave
you, Bill Robbins, to rot.
I felt like a second Saint Ant’ny. The shadder I
tried to ewade,
But he wispered so loud that he drownded the
toons wot the good angels played.
Yet I conquered him, Jack, with a struggle, and
felt like a proud, ’onest man,
(Just as ’onest, of course, in the abstract as coves
on the turf ever can.)
Then sez you : ‘ Don’t git fearsome, my darling,
for Dandy can’t lose. Eh, my buck ? ’
And sez I, with emotion, and ’usky, and shakin’
yer ’and : ‘ Wish you luck.’
So you backed ’im for all you ’ad ready, and did
in a lot on the nod ;
But the more as you backed ’im old Dandy went
back in the books ; that was odd.
“Well, he lost, Bill, but fairly and squarely; ‘The
Major ’ was best at the weights.
I lost money —and wife, that was hardest—l can’t
lose much now, thank the fates.
Good old Dandy tried nobly, I’m certain.”. The .
hanimal did, dear old Jack.
Yuss, he meant you to marry sweet Gerty— hut
ivhat of the lad on ’is back ?”
“ What! Good God! man, you don’t mean to tell
me they pulled him !” “I beg yer, keep carm,
As with grief I confesses, the jockey, he ivas a bit
strong in the arm.
You remember you promised a ‘ monkey ’ if only
I made Dan. pull through;
But the other coves offered a thousand; so what
was a feller to do ?
Now I arxes you ’onest and truthful, a-seein’ as
wot was the game.
Would yer gorn for the ‘thou.’or the monkey’?
Wy, Jack, you’d ha’ done just the same.
Over every meetin’ some feller is bound for to go
to the wall,
And, as jady Dame Fortune would ’ave it, it
’appened to be you, that’s all.
But ar’ Nemmysis preys on my conscience; I’m
fat, tho’ I try to grow thin ;
And I pray I may die like a porper, but meet after
meetin’ I win.
For to drown all my woes I endeavours in jooce of
the malt and the ’op,
But tho’ I git drunk hevery hevenin’ my sorrers
still float on the top.
But it ’ain’t ’cos I compassed your ruin; not
’cos you lost Gerty, I’m sore,
But becos in that bisness transaction I was mug
not to win a hit more.
So I don’t deserve ’appiness, Juggins ; I begs yer,
old man, punch my ’ed.”
There was woe in the house of Jack Juggins, for
Juggins, poor devil, was dead.
G.L.G.
An Impending Catastrophe.
Lord Carington’s term of office expires this year, and it
is his intention to leave for England by one of the direct
mail steamers in December next.
O sound the dreary tom-tom, put ashes on your
heads,
Lord Carington is going !
The most languidly magnificent of British
thoroughbreds,
Lord Carington is going !
The bosom friend of “ Tummy,” the idol of the
clubs.
Whose noble name adorneth full many loyal
“pubs,”
The exquisite exemplar of Sydney’s gilded cubs,
Lord Carington is going !
When again Great Britain freezes beneath
December’s snows,
Lord Carington is going !
To warm the shivering motherland and ease her
gouty toes,
Lord Carington is going !
Leaving a distracted people to mourn their awful
loss,
And a paralysed society to hump its heavy cross,
And a crushed Masonic brotherhood without a
Grand High Boss,
Lord Carington is going !
Tears roll down to the harbour and make high
water there,
Lord Carington is going !
As stricken city residents with parched-up lips
declare
“Lord Carington is going !”
A prostrate nation mourneth nor listens to rebuke,
And the deep grief will continue, unless, by some
sweet fluke,
The sinecure should capture a marquis or a duke
Now Carington is going!
Then, as Victoria hastened to get rid of Henry
Loch
(Lord Carington is going),
When its salary was accepted by one of noble
stock
(Lord Carington is going),
So Sydney will go purchase more holiday attire,
And practise each new fashion of grovelling in the
mire,
And, overcome with ecstacy, will shout till they
perspire,
“ Lord Carington is going !”
C.R.W.


Business Announcements.
-THE-
Fresh Food & |ce Go.,
LIMITED,
HARBOUR STREET,
SYDNEY,
Are evidently determined to go ahead. They are
now supplying Customers who take a Quart of
Milk and Over per Day at
THREEPENCE PER QUART!
This appears very wonderful, hut it is
quite true.
ET Weekly Accounts.
A. BOWMAN’S
LONDON MADE
Porpoise Hide Boots
Are Reduced from 30s. to 21s.
249 PITT ST., SYDNEY, Near Tattersall's.
Forpoise Hide Wears Twice as Long
as any other Leather.
They t are noted all oyer London,
Birmingham and Liverpool.
Lontdon Fashions,
AND
Fresh Goods Every Fortnight.
Trade Supplied Wholesale at a Great Advantage.
GB. MODINI, Gunmakcr, infoi ms his Customers
■ and the Public in general that he has the largest
assortment of Firearms in the colony. Qualities and prices
to defy competition. Agent for the following celebrated
gunmakersJ. Purdey & Sons, Ch. Boswell, John Rigby
and Co., Josefii Lang & Sons, Cu. Osborne & Co., Thomas
Bland & Son. A large assortment of various other makers
always on hand, viz., W. W. Greener, Scott, Wesley,
Hollis & Sons, Riley and Cashmore. All goods will be
faithfully guaranteed at 602 Gcorge-street, Sydney.
Price list on application.
PLOUGH-SCARES.
PLOUEH-SHARES. PLOUGH-SHARES,
IN EQUITY.
Hornsby v. Hudson.
——
NOTICE
TO THE
Farming Communitj of New South Wa'es,
HUDSON BROS., Ltd.,
Are still making the Shares which formed
the subject of this great lawsuit. They
are now branded
DEE
and their quality is better than ever.
HU/)
Farmers desirous of encouraging Colonial
Industry can obtain these Shares from our
Local Agent.
NOTE—Trial samples free of cost.
W \ TUmijirv some really smart Resident
*' Jl-i’ Agents in all the Country
Towns throughout the Colonies. A Comfortable
Income for Energetic Persons of either sex.
Apply at once, as time is money, to
“FORTUNE,”
P.O. Box 570, Sydney, N.S.W.
Hotels.
Palls Pamily Ho tei <,
Falls Bridge, Melbourne.
This magnificent Hotel, containing 50 Double
and Single Rooms, is splendidly furnished and
perfectly ventilated.
Hot and Cold Plunge and Shower Baths.
Electric Hells. Telephone 1217. Billiards, d-c.
Terms Strictly Moderate.
J. H. DU KKANT Manager,
Late of the South Australian Club Hotel, Adelaide.
Business Announcements.
-S i-
Ts ID
□
WANTS
ronmeb
m
f_!
a
ZL'
'•MW*
f 111 H i‘N
m : ju
ROBERTS & CO.,
-W HOLESALE-
Ironmongers* Importers* Iron and Machinery Merchants*
hay and engine streets s ydne y.
Head Office: 85 Gracechurch Street, London, E.C.
IMPORTERS OF
Bail-way Sc Bridge Contractors’
Plumbers'
Squatters'
Requirements
IN
Great Variety.
r IMPORTERS OF—
j Engineers' and Blacksmiths'
1 Couchbuilders’
Mining
AGENTS FOR;
? Engines—The best and cheapest yet made. Automatic self-governing-, thus saving cost of gas.
Braddock s Water and Gas Meters and Gas Lamps. Reading Iron Works Universal (Split) Pulley Wh ‘
Howe’s Platform and Counter Weighing Machines and Weighbridges.
ADE M®
Guinness’ Extra Stout,
FIRST QUALITY.
Bass' Pale A le,
FIRST QUALITY.
Sole Purveyors to the
Colonial & Indian Exhibition,
London,
(By Special Appointment).
Wholesale Agents : Balchin, Johnston & Co., Sydney.
M. B. FOSTER & SONS, LONDON,
“BTJG-LE” .A-HUIE -A.zkt:d stout.
)(
PUBLIC NOTICE.
It having come to our knowledge that ALE and STOUT of very inferior quality, in bottles with
skillfully forged labels have lately been palmed (ff on the public :
We desire to warn our friends of the fact, and t > state that all corks as well as capsules of the
bottles shipped by Messrs. M. B. FOSTER & SONS to this colony bear their name and address.
Any information respecting Bottled Beer purporting to be “Foster’s Bugle Brand” offered
for sale without these corks and capsules will be esteemed by the undersigned, who have instruc-
tions to bring to justice the perpetrat rs of the frauds.
A Liberal Reward will be given for information leading to conviction of the offenders.
)(
BALCHIN, JOHNSTON & 00., Sydney,
Agents for Messrs. M. B. Foster & Sons.
A.blc fo r Kupper’s Elberfeld. Lager Beer
(Specially Brewed for Australia). Absolutely Free from Sediment.
THE
Wolseley Sheep-Shearing* machine.
PASTORALISTS are notified that, to avoid disappointment,
no time should be lost in Booking Orders for next Season.
Agents: J. H. GED D E S & CO.,
19 PHILLIP STREET, SYDNEY.
• i
ŧ
%
%
%
/,
\
%
5?
EVERY '
DESCRIPTION
HAIR WORK DONE
PRIVATE
ROOMS
FOR LADIES
22*24
ROYAL ARCADE
MELBOURNE
Citizens’ Life Assurance Company,
LIMITED.
Capital £200,000.
Head Office :
21 Castle re agh St., Sydney,
With Branches and Agencies throughout the Colonies.
KTew 10-u.siM.esss:
188* There were Issued 19,557 Policies.
1888 .. „ 34,«84
1889 ~ ~ ~
.1 hese figures show the wonderful progress of the
Company and the high esteem placed upon its
liberal dealings by the public.
CLAIMS PAID
Immediately on Proof of Death
JAMES P. GARVAN, 1
WM. ALEX. SMITH, /
Managing Director.
Secretary.
Medical.
ARE YOU NERVOUS?
IF SO,
DON’T MISS THIS!
What everyone says is bound to be true, and young
and old, rich and poor, physicians who recommend, and
patients who try
The Krupp Galvanic Chain Belt,
Gl agree_ in praising that most scientific of Electro
Therapeutical Appliances. For Rheumatism it is un-
rivalled. Lumbago at once succumbs to its power. The
Nervous are strengthened and the Debilitated restored to
perfect health and vigour. In short, the appliance is an
unfailing cure for all Nervous, Sexual, or Chronic Diseases,
and is GUARANTEED to ABSOLUTELY CURE, com-
pletely and lastingly, the following complaints:—
Dyspepsia, Neuralgia, Pains in the Back and Chest,
Lumbago, Catarrh, Rheumatism, Dumb Ague,
Nervous Debility, Paralysis, Kidney Complaint,
Spinal Disease, Female Weakness, Diseases of the
Liver, Impotence, Seminal Weakness, Diabetes,
Scicitica, Atrophy, Gout, Indigestion, Asthma, Piles,
Epilepsy Spermatorrhoea, Specks before the Eyes,
Excessive Heart Palpitation, Defective Memory.
An I'uliiillng < nre For Varicocele.
It is a PORTABLE BODY BATTERY, and contains
special appliances for both sexes ; therefore, why waste
your money and health by procuring and taking USELESS
DRUGS? Electricity, when properly applied, is acknow-
ledged by all leading and unprejudiced physicians to be
the only safe and radical cure for Nervous and Sexual
Diseases, and the thousands of testimonials received by
the Krupp Belt Co. from leading personages throughout
Australasia prove the unquestionable curative properties
of Electricity as applied by theappliance above referred to.
Our confidence in this appliance is so complete, that
we send the Belt out on trial, and guarantee it
to give perfect satisfaction. For full particulars as to
terms, etc., send for our large illustrated treatise, free,
in which these Belts are fully illustrated, the action of
electricity on the nervous sj 7 stem explained, and a lot of
useful information on nervous and sexual diseases given.
This treatise also contains facsimile of testimonials received
from some of our clients who have tried our Belts. The
originals of these testimonials produced on application.
The prices of the Krupp Galvanic Chain Belt and
Suspensory are from £l.
Sole Inventor Carl Krupp.
Business Manager . . A. W. Courtney.
Address all communications to the
Krupp Galvanic Chain Belt Co.,
Box 647, G.P.0., Sydney, N.S.W.
Remember—The K.G. Chain Balt cures without medicine,
is easy to wear, is sent on approval, and the first cost is
the only cost.
I JP 0 3 4l D . :E i
AND ALL PERSONS
MOUSONS
Cocoa Butter Soap is a real skin-beautifler, and a balm to
young- and old alike.
MOUSON & CO., PERFUMERS & TOILET SOAP MANUFACTURERS-,
FRANK FORT-ON-THE-MAINE.
London: 32&33 hatnsell-st., e.c. parts: 29rub radzierilb
Full guarantee for perfect purity is offered by the
sole Manufacturers, Mouson & Co.
JULIUS GOLDSCHMIDT Sc CO.,
231 CLARENCE-ST., SYDNEY,
SOLE AGENTS FOR AUSTRALASIA.
/0/
i
CrftSfM
mi
185
T'HIS valuable Lotion is guaranteed to cure SWELLING
- 1 - and SANDY BLIGHT, INFLAMED EYES and LIDS,
DIMNESS OF SIGHT, &c. It will be found very bene-
ficial and cooling to those who have weak eyes, or whose
work compels them to strain their eyes. Highly
recommended by the leading Oculists.
Manufactured only by the Proprietor,
H. A. ROBE
Dispensing and Manufacturing Chemist^
531 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Wholesale by the Proprietor and all Wholesale Houses.
Established 185 S. By Post Ss. 6d.
VST~ Manufacturer of Dr. SOUTHAN’S GOUT and
RHEUMATIC PILLS.
THE PRESCRIPTION
33. O. 3L>
WHAT IS IT?
THOMAS MCREERY:
MEDICAL HERBALIST,
S 3 Oxford Street, 4 doors above Riley Street.
Private Diseases of Both Sexes a Speciality.
Consultations Gratis. Charges very Moderate.
A Trial Solicited.
A SPEEDY CURE GUARANTEED.
Tie AUSTRALIAN MERCANTILE LOAN and
GAURANTEE COMPANY, Limited.
Head Office—
Sydney: Corner of Market & York Streets.
Melbourne Branch: 283 Collins-strcet East.
Brisbane Branch: Corner Edward and Elizabeth Streets.
Newcastle Branch: 37 Hunter Street.
The Company grant immediate advances upon Deeds of
Land, Bills of Lading, Merchandise, Storage and Bond
Certificates, and all classes of mercantile andother approved
securities, for fixed terms or repayable by instalments.
A. MILLER. Acting-Manager.


Medical.
/V
M
$
M \EUREKA
ELECTRIC I
A'
<N
■/>
A NEVER FAILING CtIRE FOR ALL.
Diseases of the nervous system.
Complete With Suspensory Appliances from £l. 0. 0 and
Upwards. This famous Electric Magnetic Belt will cure
NERVOUS DEBILITY, Seminal Debility, Impotence,
and all weakness caused by indiscretion. Pains in the
Back, Lumbago, Giddiness, Rheumatism, Kidney and
Bladder complaints, and in fact any disease of the Nervous
System. The currents are steady and constantly felt by
the wearer. It has great improvements over all other
belts, we are willing to furnish those belts on 30 daya
trial, and accept payment after they have proved them-
selves what we represent them to be. Those belts are
tnnne for the specific purpose of producing a continuous,
mild, soothing current of electricity through all the weak-
ened parts, restoring them to health and vigorous strength,
even the worst case permanently cured in three months.
It is more convenient to wear than any other Belt.
A Book illustrated, containing full information and testi-
monials from prominent people throughout Australia,
and informing persons how they may obtain these belts
Without paying for them until they have proved them com-
petent to cure any disease of the Nervous System, will be
forwarded to any address on receipt of a 2d stamp for
postage, d *
Address;— VOLTAIC BELT COMPANY
Bos 910, G. P. O.j Bvdnev.
Dr, James 3D. Llewellyn,
(registered)
SPECIALIST in
GENITO-UEINABf DISEASES,
May be CONSULTED at
“3 25 LONSDALE STREET—
{between Swanston <£' Elizabeth StsJ,
MELBOURNE.
.Consulting Hours—lo to 2; 7to 9. Sunday
Mornings, 10 to 11.
All Personal Consultations are EiiEß; by letter the
Fee is £l, which is inclusive of medicines*
sa. o
hieSasr
* (801 *
tS
An elegant dress
ing. exquisitely per'
fumed', removes all
impurities from the
Scalp' prevents baldness and gray hair, and
causes the hair to grow Thick, Soft and
Beautiful, Infallible for curing eruptions
of the skin, diseases of the glands, muscles
find integuments, and relieving Cuts, burns,
nfbises, grains, &c\
parry’s P©as*l Cream
Imparts to the darkest skin a clear, natural
white, tinged with the faintest rose blush
It speedily removes wrinkles, freckles, sun
burn and tan, and mantles the faded cheek
with youthful bloom and beauty !
Barry’s Hair Dy©.
Put up in two forms, with and without
a preparation Without the .preparation,
gradually Colors the hair any shade desired,
from a light brown lo a black With the
/preparation, instantly colors the hair ana
tural jet black the moment it is applied.
of these preparations geo-
pine without the trade mark of Barclay
& Co , New York, affixed to eayh bottle.
r«T’ A BLESSING IN EVERY FAMILY.
HOLLOWAY’S PILLS AND OINTMENT.
There is not a country in the civilised world where
the healing virtues of thes re grand medicines have not been
recognised By thousands of sufferers. In all the ordinary
ailments of humanity their beneficent action is at once
recognised. Fullest directions arc supplied for their use
In every disease. IP YOU SUFFER, TRY THEM. Manu-
factured only at 70 New Oxford-st., London. |3gr - Pur-
chasers should look to the Label on the Boxes and Pots
If the address is not 523 Oxford-street, Loudon, they are
spurious.
a
u
o
N
G
T
A
R
T
C
0
M
P
A
Y
LOONG SHAN TEA HOUSE
NOW OPEN.
Quong Tart & Co.’s
EXTENSIVE NEW PREMISES
(Nearly opposite Theatre Royal).
FIRST-CLASS GRILLS,
As well as all kinds of Refrealmients, may
be obtained from 7.30 a.in. to 11.30 p.m.
CUP OP DELICIOUS TEA.
ICED DRINKS OF ALL KINDS, See.
The rooms are splendidly furnished and
fitted up. In addition to the large and
well - appointed Refreshment Rooms,
gentlemen will find on the Second Floor
Commodious and Comfortable Smoking
and Conversation Rooms, furnished with
Chess, Draughts, &0., &c.
TO THE LADIES.
On the First Floor will be found Nioe
Private Room for Ladies, convenient for
Writing, Reading, &0., also Retiring
Rooms and Lavatory, with both hot and
oold water laid,on. Inspection Invited.
t Tea-s imported—Packets ill), and
Upwards supplied. Orders promptly at-
tended to.
137 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
8
O
N
G
T
A
R
T
C
O
M
P
A
N
Y
Medical.
A WONDERFUL MEDICINE.
BeecHam’s Pills
CJI4
&
0
PATENT
PILLS.
w
sR
*
$
$3
Are universally admitted
to be worth a Guinea
a Box for bilious
and nervous disorders,
such as wind and pain in
the stoihacb, sick head-
.achc; giddiness, fulness
and swelling after nieals,
dizziness, and drowsiness;
cold chills, flushings of
heat, loss of appetite,
shortness of breath, cos-
tivei! esS; Set irvjr, bltttchdS
OH th'd skin, disturbed
sleep, frightful dreams,
and all nervous and trem-
bling sensations, &c. The
first dose will give relief
in twenty minutes. Every
sufferer is earnestly invited to try one box of these
1 ills, and they will be acknowledged to be
Worth a Guinea a Box.
For females of all ages these Fills are invaluable,
fl- s , a few doses of them carry off all humors, and
bring- about all that is required. No female should
be Without them. There is no medicine to be found
equal to BEECH AMU PILLS for removing any
obstruction or irregularity Of the system. If taken ac-
cording to the directions given vVith each bdx they will
soon restd-e females of all ages to sound and robust
health. This has been proved by thousands who have
tried them, and found the benefits which are ensured by
their use.
For a weak stomach, impaired digestion and all disorders
of the liver, they act like “ MAGIC,” and a few doses will
be found to work wonders upon the most important
organs in the human machine. They strengthen the
whole muscular system, restore the long-lost complexion,
bring back the keen edge of appetite, and arouse into ac-
tion with the ROSEBUD of health the whole physical
energy of the human frame. These are “FACTS.” testified
con till ualiy by llifehibers of all classes of society ; and
oile Of the best guarantees to the nervous and debilitated
is, Beecham’s Pills have the largest sale of any patent
medicine in the world.
Beecham’s Magic Cough Pills.
As a remedy for Coughs in general, Asthma, Bronchial
Affections, Hoarseness, Shortness of Breath, Tightness
and Oppression of the Chest, Wheezing, &c., these Pills
stand unrivalled. They are the best.ever offered to the
public and will speedily remove that sense of oppression
and difficulty of breathing which nightly deprive the
patient of rest. Let any person give Beecitam’s Cough
Pills a trial and the most violent Cough will in a
short time be removed.
Prepared only and sold wholesale and retail by the pro-
prietor, Thomas Beecham, Chemist, St. Helens, Lancashire,
England, in boxes at Is. Ikl. and 2s. 9d. each. —Sold by
all Druggists and Patent Medicine Dealers everywhere.
N.B.—Full directions are given with each box.
(nneNOp
*
CORE &
H OGG
THE EMINENT
_ ISPEGIA^ISTS^
On all Diseases <JT the Gen Ito-Url nary Organ!
Nervous Diseases, and Private Complaints,
1, CORBETT’S BUILDimS, corner of George
and Elizabeth Streets, Brisbane.
OOI.SULTATIONB FREE, PERSONALLY OR BY LETTER.
Box 88 G.P.0.) Book sentonreceipt of 2d. stamp.
Prof. R. T. SELBY
1(3 considered td be the most Successful Practi-
tioner in the Atlslraliail colonies. Ail Sillffe’fers
should read the Doctor’s most unique work on
Nervous, Private and other Diseases. The
Advice on Marriage is worth its weight in gold.
Send your full address, and we will send (post
free) One Copy. Write to Prof. R. T. SELBY,
Cleveland Street, Surry Hill, SYDNEY.
P. C. NICHOLLS & Co ,
WHOLESALE
Confectioners k Pastrycooks*
City Buildings;
73© Gteorge Street, 73©
HAYMARKET.
Steam Works ;
617, 619, 621, 539, 541 HARRIS STREET.
Wedding Cakes, Stc., Made to Order.
EPFS’
GEATEFOL--COMFORTING
o c o
Dr. westcott’s amenorrhea
PILLS for Ladies, when taken for a few
days before, quickly correct all irregularities
from whatever cause arising ; 2s. 9d. and 4s. (id.,
by post 3s. and ss. W. H. SOUL and CO., 100
Pitt-street, Sydney, Agents.
WALTER ZEIOIPIE,
General Merchant <fe Commission Agent,
199 SUSSEX STREET, SYDNEY.
C CONSIGNMENTS of all Produce, Live Stock, etc.,
/ received and realised in the best markets. Account
Sales and Proceeds remitted the day after sale. Orders
executed for all Goods from Sydney at Lowest Wholesale
Prices
Speciality.— Pure-hred and Pedigree Stock of all de-
scriptions Bought or Sold on Commission. All communi-
cations referring to Pure-bred Poultry and Eggs for Setting
to he addressed as usual to WALTER HOPE, Bonnyrigg
Prize Poultry Farm, Liverpool, N.S.W.
SPECIAL N OTICE.—The Sydney Bulletin.
Tasmanian Edition Publishers, FITZ-
GERALD BROS. Subscription (payablestrictly
in advance). Six Shillings and Sixpence per quar-
ter, or One Pound per annum.
The Bulletin will bo on Sale every Friday at
the Office, George Street, Launceston, or from the
Runners in the street.
Business Announcements,
rruiE bank of new Zealand.
■ Sydney Branchesi
04 PITT STREET, and 538 GEORGE STREET.
Paid-up Capital £1,125,000
Tlio Bank has Agents in all the principal ,cities
throughout the United States of America and
Canada, and can offer special facilities for dealing
in Bullion, Bills of Exchange, Commercial and
Travellers’ Letl ers of Credit.
Drafts issued ahd Bills collected on most favour-
able terms, at rates which can be ascertained on
application,
N. 1-VGIBLtN, Manager.
lO.e£a>aL i ZEUeeLcS. t 3F3.0ei.c3. 2
a 'HIE BULLETIN’S H
History of Botany Bay,
.By Artlmi* Gayll.
Profusely Illustrated by The Bulletin's well-
known Artists,
L. HOPKINS and PHIL MAY.
UPrico - O;n.o
Per post, Is. 3d.
IViIDLESAL® Agents:
Victoria; A, tfenjailliil, 321 Little Colliug-sL, Melbourne
Melbourne: Gordon & fcftttchi
Brisbane: J. H. Thompson, Bookseller, Gborge-strecti ,
Adelaide: Neville & Co.
Tasmanian: Fitzgerald Bros,, George-street, Launceston;
“ What is Hojik without a Picture?”
3L. BEBBTASCOITI,
(Late R, Smith)
Elite Carver, Gilder, and Picture Frame Maker,
159 Clarence Street Only, SYDNEY
(near Centra! Coffee Palace).
PlUsh Work a Speciality, Mcttnls Cift to any Design,
MUSICAL
"PATENT SCALE INDICATOR for Pupils Learning the
x Piano. Price, 3s. Cd. And IMPROVED VAMPING
SYSTEM, without a knowledge of Music, ss. Cd., posted
to the country from Ingham’s, Sydney Arcade.
Country Agents wanted—Stationers.
J. SITTERLIM,
FROM PARIS,
Ladies’ Hairdresser. Wigmaker, & Perfumer,
£5 SY&NEY ARCADE, SYDNEY,
o— —
HISTORICAL and fancy hairdressing a
SPECIALTY.
Manufacturer of All Kinds of Theatrical
and Street Wins,
Ammonlated Uiiiiiino,
The most efficient Hair Lotion, to prevent prema-
ture baldness.
Sitterlin’s Vegetable Hair-dye,
The only Hair-dye in the colonies to restore Light
Hair to its natural colour. All shades.
Success G-uaranteecl.
MANUFACTURING HATTERS
GEORGE STREET
SYDNEY
IMPORTERS OFALLTHE
NEWESTSHAPES.
And at ALBERT STREET, BRISBANE.
r
c
(0
t
IP 1
>Sv
m
/11/CH
INC
*A
*/
PO
MANUFACTURED R Y
JjMCS C//M/VCfr S/arLovrS* & V=£((
leU tr/ <tK S-'incc.-'ud ? ,<jf .-ißa
OoW
eAetfi
Business Ann ur,cements.
THREH 6REAI* LIGHTS!
The Needles Patent Gas-making Machine ;
The Harvey Patent Safety Kerosene Lamp;
And the New Era Portable Gas Lamp.
The Harvey Lamp has been adopted - by the
Railway Commissioners for lighting the Sydney
trams. We were awarded the Highest Order of
Merit and Special Mention by experts at the
late _ Melbourne .Inhibition for our lighting
mediums. Over 6000 Harvey Lamps are in use
iij tliiw colony, and for all lighting purposes are
giving universal satisfaction. These Lamps can
be seen oh one of the North Shore ferry-boats,
and ate suitable for all classes of Vessels, The
Inventor offers £2OO to anyone producing as good
a Kerosene Burner.
Patentees for Australasia;
H. T. Smith & Co, 494 Sent St. South, Sydney;-
i t Arcade, Adklaidb, S.A. : Argent Street, Broken Hill;
Pavkside Iron Works, Melbourne.
■ Tin'—
SYDNEY SOAP Sc CANDLE GO.,
Limited,
MANUFACT HUEUS OF
Stearine and Paraffin Candles,
HOT & COLD WATER SOAP
Of every Description'
Glycerine, Lubricating, Machine, Cloth and
Heatsfoot Oils.
The only Genuine and Original—-
Magic Cleanser Cold Water Soap*
To be had at all Grocers and Storekeepers..
jt y-:-
Upfold’s Tree Pest Exterminator,
Its Effects are Marvellous!
H. HILtJER;
BOOT UPPER MANUFACTUBEK
IMPORTER OP
ENGLISH AND FOREIGN LEATHER,
Elastic Web, Grindery, tic,,
Wholesale and Retail Leather Merchant
53 0 GEORGE STREET, STENET.
—THE—
Art Furnishing Warehouse,
BEARD, WATSON & CO.,
361 George Street, SYDNEY,
Direct attention to their Magnificent Stock of
Carpets, Floorcloths, Linoleums,
And other 'Flour Covering*, in the
XEWKST DESIGNS A ARTISTIC' < 01.01 RINGS.
Art Decorations, Upholstery Work and
Window Draping a Speciality.
All Orders executed hy a Staff of Experienced
Workmen, and Special Attention ijircn to the carry,
imj out of Customerd wishes with punctuality and
promptitude.
Hotels.
WJESSTBmsr HOTEL,
Warrnambool, Victoria.
THIS old-established and well-known Family
and Commercial Hotel combines all the
requirements of a First-Class Hotel with home
comforts.
It is in full view of the sea and within a short
distance of the picturesque scenery of the Hopkins
River, which affords the finest Rod and Fly Fishing
in the colony.
Arrangements made for the Hire, of Rowing and
Fishing Boats and Fishing Tackle. Bait, etc.,
supplied. Mi' Good Shooting in the immediate
neighbourhood.
Tt is also within Two Minutes’ walk of the Hot
and Cold Sea Water Baths, which are unsur-
passed in the colonies.
Livery and Letting Stable*.
Booking Office for Cobb & Co.’s Coaches. Thos.
Cook & Sons’ Hotel Coupons taken.
GEORGE W. CLARE - Proprietor.
THE GEORGE HOTEL
(opposite Railway Station, near Baths),
St. Kilda, Victoria.
First-class Family & Commercial Hotel.
For particulars, apply to
DFC WIMFOLE,
PROPRIETOR.
Royal h o t e l,
Esplanade,
ST. KILDA. VICTORIA,
Facing Beach, close to Pier and Baths. Ten
minutes from Station.
H. MOONEY .... Proprietor,
LI VERY.'LETTING STABLES ATT AC J 11*11).
Telephone 082.
First-class Accommodation for Visitors
LONG’S IMPERIAL HOTEL,
TOOWOOMBA. QUEENSLAND,
Acknowledged the Best Hotel on the Darling
1 )owns. First-class Accommodation.
I'rlvate Suites iirst Class Sample Rooms.
Conveyance Meets Every ’Train.
JOHN LONG - - Late of New Zealand


SHE VILL & CO.,
Corner Queen Street and Flinders Lane,
MELBOURNE.
MERCANTILE AUCTIONEERS,
House, Land, and Estate Agents,
\SI
z ' BSf
i
m
&
fi
4b
A-
m
jj
Advances made against shipments of Merchandise
and Colonial Produce.
Daily Sales held at their Commodious
New Booms.
OUTDOOR
Furniture & Land Sales Conducted.
Branch
Officer
[ 32 Chapel St., Prahran.
i 2 Albert St., Windsor. J
Branch
Offices
IMPORTER OF
x SPIRITS, x BEER S, x ETC.,
George and Gipps Streets, Sydney.
SPECIALITIES:
John Jameson’s Dublin Whisky (5 to 10 years old); W. Jameson’s, Duxviujs's Roe’s and Wise’s (old Cork) Whiskies.
llbnnessy’s, Martell’h and Sazerac’s Brandies (5, 10, 16 and 2l years old).
The Choicest and Oldest SCOTCH WHISKIES (in wood), Imported and Bottled by P'Jt.L.
8®” The Best Bort and .Sherry Wines and Champagnes. V-v?" All Brands of Colonial Wines. The leading brands
of Bottled Ale and Stoit, arriving by monthly steamers.
Prince of Wales Hotel, 778 & 780 George Street.
•sstntcsalc anil Simjh l Untt’le Departments, "83 anil -YSI <|coi»gt;-st., Syilnpy.
SEND FOR A PRICE LIST.
FIRST~CLA2S LADIES’ REFRESHMENT ROOM k LAVATORY,
GIPPS STREET (Opposite A. 'Hordern & Sons.)
)x (
Produce Stores, Gipps St., and Darlinghurst Hoad.
HEAD OFFICE: GIPPS STREET (Next Prince of Wales Hotel).
WALLAGH BROS.
Kill
3STEW
FURNITURE
WAREHOUSES,
York Street, Wynyard Square, Sydney,
Now supply the General Public as well as the Trade.
10,000 Bedsteads,
From lOs. 6d. to £35.
mm
f"i r. y v'y •■ - ■ ■■;• ""
1
AGENTS
EERS
AU
BAYI.EE & CO.,
General Auctioneers and Estate Agents,
335 Collins Street, Sfcltoonriie. and It Cliapej
Street, South Tarra.
Free Prescriptions
Are to be found in the “Light ami Life,’
for the Speedy Cure of Nervous Debility and
Kindred Diseases, &c. A copy of this book will
be sent Free, sealed, for Six Penny Stamps.
Address —
S. WARD Si CO., SYDNEY PHARMACY,
7G HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
t
ţ
-
, •- . V
liimliii"(osi Mill.
Kmnvlts’ rumps.
LACY CO
B
MINING & HYDRAULIC ENGINEERS
AND
GENERAL MACHINERY MERCHANTS,
&c.,
&c.,
&c.
187 & 189 Clarence Street,
SYDNEY, INJ.S.'W.
Asad BAM FRANCISCO, CALIFORNIA.
Bock Breakers.
Wcstiiurlionsc Engines,
TikHTGrYESS,
Hay St., Hay market, Sydney,
ENGINES,
2 to 50 H. p.
BOILERS,
1 to 35 H.P.
STEAM PUMPS
For all purposes.
csmimi niirs.
2" to 40*disrharpo.
HAND PUMPS.
Saw Benches.
Xaa.-fc13.0C3.
done mm.
&C»ji &o»
.
'
(ntu/fjr, wr"~
toeing engines,
Hauling Engines.
Battery Engines.
Saw-mill Engines.
FLOUR-MILL ENGINES,
ENGINES
FOR iJS
Electric Lighting.
Vortical Boilers.
Mnltiluklar Boilers,
( AiiNHEI i:oiu:Ri
&c., &c.
W* invite al those renuirin" Machinery of any kind for any'purpose, largo or small, to write ror particulars and prices. From the extent of our stock we are generally able to give immediate delivery.
' 1 Visitors, whether buyers or n t, are always welcome to inspect the magnificent display in our new and extensive Showrooms,
12 8,
131, 133 & 135 HAY STREET, RAYMARKET, SYDKTEY.
