

AITKEN’S ALE.
LIFE BUOY BRAND.
THE BEST IN THE MARKET.
DICKENS’” WHISI
USED BY THE LATE CHARLES DICKENS,
AXO SIIPPLIEO TO THE P
11, CUBS IV STOVEY.
Harrison. & Attwood, 25 X G-eorge-st.,
Sole Agents for 3NT© - w
Wales.
o
Street,
tJ NIIIV AL LED ACCOMMODATION.
ò
Saturday, June 14,
SAMUEL DEEBL'E has been favoured with
instruction from Mrs. J. Thomas (in con-
science of the death of the late Mr. John
Thomas) to sell by auction as above—
All the Valuable Leasehold Property, known as
Thomas's Southern Billiard Saloon, to-
gether witli 13 Magnificent Billiard Tables, 1
Bagatelle Table, 1 Revolving Pool Table, 3!)
Billiard Balls, 100 Cues, 3 Large Racks, 13
Marking Boards, 0 Forms, and 15 Lamps.
This Saloon is the largest Billiard Saloon in the
Southern Hemisphere, 117 feet long by 30 feet
wide. The Tables arc Thomas’s Celebrated
Billiard Tables. The position is the best in
the City of Melbourne. The broad entrance
from Bourke-street adjoins the St. George’s Hall
entrance and the Theatre Royal, the Opera House
is directly opposite, and the Bijou Theatre in the
immediate vicinity. The Auctioneer would call the
special attention' of speculative, business, and
sporting men to this sale. Ihe Saloon has been
established over 20 years, and an income of over
£2OOO per annum derived from it. This is a rare
opportunity of obtaining a splendid Ready Money
Business.
Terms.— Half-cash, balance by approved Bills
in six equal amounts of 2,4, 6,8, 10, and 12
months’ date.
For full particulars respecting Lease, &c., apply
to Messrs. Gillott, Croker, and Snowden,
William-street, Melbourne ; or to Samuel Heeble,
Auctioneer, 446 Collins-street, near Scott’s Hotel,
and at Inglewood.
SATURDAY, JUNE 14.
AT 3 O’CLOCK.
ON THE PREMISES, LOWER ST. GEORGES HALL, >
'Boutko Street, City of Melbourne.
THOMAS’S SOUTHERN BILLIARD SALOON.
VALUABLE LEASE, HAYING 2 YEARS AND 8 MONTHS TO RUN.
Thirteen Billiard Tables, 1 Bagatelle Table, 1 Revolving Fool Table, 39 Billiard Cues, 3 Large ,
Racks, 13 Marking Boards, 9 Forms and 15 Lamps.
I If if
rwa
m*
y
I
Grand Novelty ! Grand Novelty!
FOR MARItING
LINEN, PAPER, ENVELOPES, &c.
Special Monograms.
New System, more perfect than (tie Rubber. ' New
Invention. Prizes from the New Orleans (U.S.) and
Melbourne Exhibitions. Prices.— Medium .Monograms,
with box and bottle of Indelible Ink for marking Linen,
Paper, Collars, Cuffs, and Handkerchiefs, Price four
smuaxos. Larger Monog rams, price in proportion.
L. Shrager, 19 Macquarie-Place, Op. Bxchange t
. & c.
Howard's Colonist 8-Furrow Digging
Plough.—(K.*.O.L>
Howard's Single-Furrow Digging
Plough.
(0.L.)
The piougli of the Times!
PLOUGHING AND HARROWING IN ONE ACT.
Share Points only cost 6d., and are Reversible.
Chaff-< rmw, Horse Gears and qvery kind of Aorkj let oral Implements
HUT stock:.
|| ISf Enquirers please quote this paper.'
2801 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
(Corner of Pitt and Lathukst Streets).
—THE —
LONDON & SYDNEY TEA COMPANY
400 Kent Street, SVDUrjBY.
HIGH-CLASS TEAS,
Packed in 201 b. and 401 b. Packages, .
At Is. Otl., Is. 9d. and 12s. per Lit).
r=z
k
fa
y
i
\
&
New Customers please enclose Remittance or
Reference.
Speciality: A Single Package at Wholesale Price.
H3T OUR BLENDER AT WORK ON INDIA AND CHINA.
The Bulletin
VoL 11—No. 539, J
[Saturday, June 14, 1890.


TOBACCO
mi
i'a
-axEjg^
OIXSON*SON
Customs Returns,
A m © r i c £L st Xa 0 Oj
Dixson and Sons consumed in ISSB, 52,502 il>«.
more, and in 188!) {over 44 tons) 08,03!) lbs. more
American Leaf than all the vest of New South
Wales put together.
DIXSON’S TOBACCOS having the largest
sale of any in Australia are
<yu£
&
*
0
o
w;
X
o
SIR ROGER
Dr. RIDGE”
FOOD
foe INFANTS and INVALIDS
Has an enormous sale in England
and is now being' introduced into the
Colonies.
Every Storekeeper should get a supply
as every Wise mother will certainly
use it.
DR. RIDGE’S ROYAL FOOD MILLS,
LONDON, ENGLAND.
M
1 *
.jclifeS.
jWWj^W
pa
[S&tU|
XADIES’ \l
pHILDS^I
r^ss»
IiTBUNKSKSC
S.v IUWBMCIOtt* ■»
| /J £7hvjs* l £> ]
BROWN’S
SATIN
POLISH
—FOII
LADIES' AND CHILDREN’S
LOOTS AND SHOES.
A warded highest honors at
riiiia., 187fi Melbourne, 1880
Berlin, 1877 Frankfort, 1881
Baris, • 1878 Amstonl’iu 1883
Kov Orleans, 188-1-83, and wherever
exhibited.
Paris medal on every Lottie,
Bstvarc of Imitations.
This Black in" is in liquid form and is applied to shoos
or other article's, of leather by means of a spoil"'?, attached
to*ihc cork- by a wire,' so that the blacking can be used by
anyone without soiling the fingers. No polishing brush
is required. It di its immediately after being applied, and
will not soil the mosf'delicate clothing.
Sold largely in Australia through Commission Merchants
and Healers.
B. P. BKOWU & CD.,
Boston, U.S.A., MTgs.
THE BALLARAT COFFEE PALACE,
Lydiabd Street, Ballarat.
VISITORS to the Golden City will find every
convenience at the above Establishment.
The Only Coffee Palace in Ballarat.
MODERATE CHARGES.
jREID & SOUS Proprietors.
ATKINSON'S
ENGLISH PERFUMERY
surpasses all others for its natural
fragrance.
Atkinson’s Celebrated
EAU DE COLOGNE
Is Unequalled for its Strength and
Delightful Fragrance. It far sur-
passes the numerous compounds sold
under the same name.
Of all Dealers pnd of the Manufacturers—
J. & E. ATKINSON,
24, OLD BOND STREET, LONDON.
v Trade Mark—“ White Rose** on “Golden .
Lyre,” with Address in full.
THOMAS MCREERY:
MEDICAL HERBALIST,
83 Oxford Street, 4 doors above Riley Street.
Private Diseases of Both Seres a Speeialil'i. •
Consultations Gratis. Charges very Moderate'.
A Trial Solicited.
A SPEEDY CURE GUARANTEED.
IN EVERY HOUSE.
XEV E R TRAVEL WITHOUT IT.
o
IbN OX Jf®S INSE
FLEAS.FLIES.BILETLES MOSQUITOES
AND IS
AT THE SAME TIME QUITE
HARMIESSTO Bl ROS DOGS
FOWLSbROfHER'gg
ANIMALS
»
0
ò
o
o
WANTED IN EVERY HOUSE.
Ask for KRUSE’S INSECTICIDE, and Beware
•of the Numerous Imitations.
CLARENDON HOTEL, MANLY,'
The Brighton of New South Wales.
AT the CLARENDON .HOTEL, Banquets, Suppers, Private Dinners, Evening Parties, etc., are
served on the Shortest Notice in the Large Dining Hall. Besides having a most recherche
Dinner, you can enjoy from the balconies the magnificent view of the sea and surrounding country;
here also yen can have good company, good wines—in fact, everything that can possibly make one
comfortable can be found at this really first-class hotel. Fishing and Picnic Parties provided. Table
dc Hate at One o’clock daily and Sundays. No expense is spared by Mrs. Kilminstek to make her
visitors comfortable and her Hotel the best in the colony.
Mrs. £3!£=£., Clarendon Hotel,
Opposite OCEAN BEACH, MANLY.
T. LAWLESS June.
37 MARKET STREET,
SYDNEY,
Fruit Merchant.
J]DWIN G GOEETZ,
Stock and Share Broker,
.A.a-:E:iNrT,
BRIS£ANE,
Member of the Brisbane Stock Exchange.
CONSULT the Eminent
LADIES, iir.
■ Sydney.
PILLS {Guaranteed), 55.. post free.
68 Hunter Street, and 8 Bligli Street,
SYDNEY.
IF 1 . SHEOEDEB
LIVERY, BAIT, LET-OUT AND COMMIS-
SION STABLES.
Horses and Vehicles of every description for
Sale or Hire; also, good reliable Ladies or Gentle-
men’s Hacks.
ffflO CAPITALISTS, SPECULATORS,
and Others.
Vacant Lands near Sydney
AVAILABLE UNDER THE
Non-Residential Clauses of the Land Act.
For particulars and terms apply to
“ INVESTIGATOR,”
Box 809, G.P.0., Sydney.
V /
> /IN
s>
D
v!>
\l/
0
\v.
e
%
o
to
FFICES
.Victoria.
Chaffey Irrigation Offices, Swanst.n Street.
South Australia.
_Cavendish Chambers, Grenfell Street.
J. E. Mathew Vincent. (Chief Commissioner)
Cornwall Buildings, 35 Queen Victoria St.
L. OIM DO N E. c.
PRINCE OF WALES’ HOTEL,
S-fc. USEM-lcist* ~%7'ic:-tcs>yriish.
Within Five Minutes from STATION, and One Minute from ESPLANADE and BATHS.
MRS, KONG MENG ... ... ... Proprietress.
o
SAUCE
Purchasers should see that the Label on every bottle of the original
WORCESTERSHIRE SAUCE
bears the Signature, thus :
Co
Ask for Lea & Pertuxs’ Sauce, and see Name on Wrapper, Label, Pottle and Stopper.
Wholesale and for Export by the Proprietors , Worcester; Crosse <?• Blaclcwell, London, <fe.. §c.
and by Grocers and Oilmen throughout the World.
-Everyone should Read
HISTORY of BOTANY BAY
By ARTHUR GAYLL.
Profusely Illustrated by “ The Bulletin'V’ well-known Artists, L. Hopkins and Phil May.
Price
ONE SHILLING; per Pest, Is. 3d
May be had from Agents, or direct from “The Bulletin” Office.
Agents—Victorian: A. Benjamin, H'Zi Little Collins Street East, Melbourne; Tasmanian: Fitzgerald Brothers, George Street,
Launceston; Queensland; J. H. Thompson, George Street, Brisbane,


Beale & Oo.’s New Warehouse.
o
OUR NEW SHOW-ROOMS AND WAREHOUSES:
482 & 484 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Something New in Sewing Machines !
THE BEALE PATENT MACHINE.
What is there Special about it?
The restless march of invention has enabled us
to bring before the public improvements of im-
mense value, to some short account of which we
beg your attention for a few moments. Our call-
ing is to relieve the home-mother of all that may
weary her in sewing, and to make the same
throughout a pleasure. That we have during the
last ten years succeeded in so doing, scores of
thousands will testify. And to-day we are supply-
ing a machine whose range of work is absolutely
complete, transcending the hopes and dreams of
years. _ The construction and form are such as to
place it altogether above and beyond competition,
and for the truth of which assertions, as of the
following, we humbly request that your own eyes
may be the judges.
THE IMPROVED HIGH ARM. A great
desideratum with ladies has been the raising of the
arm of the machine,, so as to allow the goods to be
sewn to pass freely underneath. This had to be
accomplished without increasing the weight of the
machine. In fact, the Beale runs with wonderful
ease and rapidity. It is almost silent, all clicking
sounds having been obviated. As is well-known,
a good test of the finish of any mechanism is its
silence when in rapid ipotion.
ALAR GER RANGE OF APPLIANGES is
provided than with any other machine. Samples
of work performed upon these we are prepared at
all times to submit, whilst an elaborate Instruction
Book is supplied, which is alone sufficient to
explain their uses and their applicability to every
requirement
NICKEL-PLATING.—In our climate the
exposed parts of the machine, and the appliances,
need to be protected from rust. We have, at
considerable expense, added a handsomely nickeled
wheel, nickeled plates, screws, appliances, treadle-
bar and cones, heightening the appearance. These
improvements also tend largely to preserve the
parts. This plating is imperishable
A MUCH LARGER DRAWER has taken the
place of the cramped and clumsy contrivance of
former years. When closed it securely fastens the
cover, and is provided with a lock and key.
THE WOODWORK is handsomer than ever,
being always of selected and inlaid Walnut. All
of it has been exposed for weeks in the drying-
room of the Factory to a temperature reaching as
high as 170 degrees; thus when kept out of damp
and sunshine, it will endure our most trying
A SELF-THREADING SHUTTLE of solid
steel, saving the trouble of threading by the end
of the cotton. It has an excellent tension, is
strong and simple.
THE BOBIN WINDER is a marvel of in-
genuity, winding and guiding the cotton by itself,
as evenly as upon the real whence it came, and
stopping of its own accord when the bobin is full.
The baby’s tiny clothing, upon which mothers love to
display their choicest handiwork; the boy’s tweed suit,
the drawing-room carpet, may all be stitched by the won-
derful BEALE Machine. Examples of all kinds of sewing
required in dresses, millinery, underclothing, tailoring and
upholstery will be shown and explained at our offices free
of charge.
With the wonderful BEALE Machine, whether for hand
or foot use, you can hem any width, make double seams
0” fells, braid, stitch with chenille, Berlin wool or gold
cord, and such like for fancy work; you may make a
pretty lace stitch, tuck ever so finely, bind dresses, coats,
or carpets ; sew on trimmings without guiding, make
frilling, ruffling, or niching ; quilt, weave your own braid
with any combination of colours, and stitch it on at the
same time ; make thick woollen door mats, embroidered
antimacassars, window curtains, and so forth; you can
easily and rapidly perform the fashionable shirring or
gathering so popular for sleeves, bodies, or skirts of dresses
with an appliance supplied gratis ; lay the small cords in
hoods and stays; do large cording; gather with or without
a band, and generally do all kinds of straight sewing upon
any material whatever. You can darn upon any woven
goods, and do crewel work. You may make button and
eyelet holes, do overcasting, make herring-bone stitch
upon any materials. This work is absolutely unique, and
can only be accomplished upon the BEALE Patent
Machine.
Any of these performances will be show at our shops
at any time. The BEALE Patent makes a lock-stitch
which cannot ravel, yet by a momentary alteration the
sewing can be done so as to rip from end to end if desired.
This peculiarity is sometimes useful when children’s clothes
are intended to be altered
We have a special word for husbands : When the day's
business is over, and the evening meal is finished, the
wife—and perhaps the sister or daughter—sits down to her
sewing. With her hands alone she cannot, as aforesaid,
do anything like the whole of the work required. In a
corner of the room is perhaps an old-fashioned machine,
with which she may, by hard driving, occasionally stitch,
with a noise like a sausage-machine, a simple straight
seam ; but that is no great help. She ought to be able to
do ALL the work with it, short of stitching on buttons,
which is a trifle. And we have known some instances
where the lady of the house is anxious to obtain a first-
class machine, that which will be the greatest of all helps
to her, but the husband demurs on the score of expense.
Why, it is the only article of the household furnishing
which will ever return you any part of the cost! If the
lady will use it, it MUST earn far more than the half-a-
crown a week necessary to purchase it. On one little
garment she will save that sum, so that in addition to in-
creased comfort your household expenses will not be en-
larged, but ought to be diminished, by the possession of a
BEALE PATENT MACHINE. How often do we waste
money upon really useless knick-knacks, or upon need-
lessly expensive articles and indulgences? The Machine
should far more than pay for itself during the time you
are clearing it off, and it will then become your own, earn-
ing or saving money as before. Is it not fairly to be
called a PROFITABLE INVESTMENT?
Cash or Easy Terms. Price Lists and Samples
Free by Post.
Beale & Company,
482 &. 484 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
Or from our Branches and Travellers everywhere.
Business Announcements.
William Flemming,
MERCHANT and IMPORTER,
22 & 24 Clarence Street
(Corner Margaret St.),
SYDNEY.
St. James’ Buildings
(WILLIAM STREET),
MELBOURNE.
RELIABLE
:o-o.grgries.
m
i
m
m
m
i
i
m
m
m.
n mm
m
a
m
M|
mm
Higii-Class Buggies, Pkaetoias,
Waypna and Harness.
-
■ ■■
m
*w.
m
m
m
m
%
Farm Waggons,
Express Waggons.
CARTS
For One and Two Passengers.
o
o
gssmc&m
Vanniiv
X
v/
>
£
Mlllllliu
■< 3
-9.
nflfflu
Lp
CBHBMiiti
mi
fr\
Lr S
f
ò
68
CLARENCE S*
SYDNEY.
, AGENTS
in New South Wales.
' s TR'I UM PH
ofTre (So od Spirit over Bad
Used in hospitals throughout the world in preference
best French Brandy. TRY IT.
If You have
Nervous Debility] Fever & Ague,
Sick Headache, Wasting of Flesh
Bilious Oomprnts} Sleepless Nights
Neuralgia,
Or any disease of the
Liver, Bowels or Kidneys, Lack, of
Strength or Nerve Power,
you can be Relieved and Cured by
LARMBR'S
CELEBRATED
TONIC.
Price, 2s 6d & ss; Post, Is extra-
Prepared only by—
c.A.xisrs; ac 00.,
Chemists,
78 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
For Sale by all Chemists.
61. W. & Co.
CARLSBAD
NATURAL MINERAL WATERS
are now imported in bottles and used in treat-
ment of CHRONIC GASTRIC CATARRH, HYPER-
CEMIA of the LIVER, GALL STONES, CHRONIC
CONSTIPATION, DIABETES, RENAL CALCULI,
GOUT, and diseases of the spleen arising from
residence in the tropics or malarious districts,
THE NATURAL
CARLSBAD SPRUDEL-SALT
In small and frequent doses is an efficient
DIURETIC,but as an APERIENT it should bo taken
BEFORE BREAKFAST, in doses of from 1 to 2 tea-
spoonfuls, dissolved in water. To increase the
APERIENT action of the Carlsbad Mineral Water,
a teaspoonful of the Salt, previously dissolved
In water should be added.
SOLE CONSIGNEES for the U.K. and the Colonies
INGRAM & ROYLE, 52, Farrlngdon St., London,
And of all Chemists throughout the World.
The Natural Mineral Waters of
{STATE
o
SPRINGS.)
GRARDE-GRILLE For Affections of the
Liver, Biliary Organs, &c.
CELESTINS.— For the Kidneys, Gravel, Gout
Rheumatism, Diabetes, &c.
HOPITAL. — For Stomach Complaints.
HAUTERIYE. — An excellent T able Water,
OF ALL CHEMISTS IN AUSTRALASIA.
Business Announcements.
MASON BROTHERS,
BjgS
Limited,
263 to 269 KENT STREET,
SYDNEY,
Have always in Stock for Sale to the
Trade and Wholesale Buyers Only,
Ironmongery, and
GENERAL HARDWARE
Glass, < lilmi and
EARTHEN WAR E.
WINBS. BEERS di SPIRITS,
AND GENERAL
BULK MERCHANDISE.
Agents for
JOII N WALKER and SONS
Old Highland Whisky.
LUCTEN FOUCAULD & CO.’S
Old Brandies.
J. T. GAYEN'S,
Schnapps and Genova.
A. MELVIN and SONS’
Edinburgh Rale Alo.
x-as: ies 3xr :e*. &,
SCENIC AND PORTRAIT PHOTOGRAPHER,
316 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
FOR
Catalogue of the most Complete Series of Views to
he obtained in Australia.
Jenolan Caves, Hawkesbury and Nepean Rivers,
Blue Mountains, Harbour and Coast Views,
Victorian and New Zealand Views.
Groups of Australian Aboriginals and South Sea
Island Natives, &c., &c.
(5. H, SMITH & SON,
MANUFACTURERS & IMPORTERS OF
P7HFP PfJD OPPg,
302 George Street, Sydney,
8 Doors South ol Hunter Sticct.
A
■‘U, -?
A r.&rce Assort
Jncnt of English and
French Chods, from
the host Makers to
choose from.
Every description
of UA'IS and CATS
made to Order.
Medical.
■m
. S
A
■p ■ ■••; -
\ • *«v
x - g\'^
T O YOUN-G 3VE 3E3 3NT.
DR, FLETCHER’S
TREATISE OX NERVOUS DISEASES, THEIR CAUSE,
SYMPTOMS. TREATMENT, AND CURE.
THE directions contained in this little treatise will be
found of immense benefit to the sufferer ; and if these
directions are observed during the early stages of Nervous
or Sexual Debility, No Medicines tvill he required , as, by
observing the directions given, the patient can Cure Him-
self.
This admirable little treatise is specially written to
show a method of counteracting the evil effects of indis-
cretions in early life—overwork, irregularity in eating or
drinking, &c. It is the result of much study and long
and successful experience in the treatment of diseases,
and contains a fund of useful information to every suf-
ferer from the following complaints, viz.:—Nervous
Debility, Dizziness, Specks before the Eyes, Pains in the
Back, Defective Memory, Loss of Will Power, Loss of
Energy, Spermatorrhoea, Bashfulness, Disoontentedness,
Constipation, Liver and Kidney Derangements, Atrophy,
Impotence, Impure Blood, Foul Taste in Mouth, Palpita-
tion of Heart, Wakefulness, Despondency, Excessive Ner-
vousness, Inability to Marry, Premature Decay, and other
symptoms experienced by nervous sufferers.
All Should Send for this Little Treatise.
If the complaint is of long standing and requires
medicine, Dr. Fletcher will GUARANTEE TO CURE
ANY CASE OF NERVOUS or SEXUAL DEBILITY
with ONE COURSE OF MEDICINES LASTING FIVE
WEEKS, and will send with medicines A WRITTEN
GUARANTEE to cure same or return the monies paid.
Dr. Fletcher’s treatment is both simple and effective,
and within the reach of the poorest. It is unlike any
other, and with it he has cured over 25,000 patients, and
invites patients to investigate Ids statements by verifying
the testimonials published in his treatise. The treatise
will be forwarded on receipt of two stamps to cover
postage.
CONSULTATION BY LETTER, FREE.
Address in first instance—
DR. H. EWART FLETCHER,
Box 1417, G.P.O.
Sydney, N.S.W.
Private address—Clonmel House, Waverley, Sydney.
Remember, all cases undertaken, guaranteed, and a
signed agreement given, which provides that NO COST
be incurred by the patient if a cure is not effected.
VARICOCELE RADICALLY CURED WITHOUT
OPERATION.
Mention this Paper.
IN THE PRESS,
“-A.
By “BULLETIN” WRITERS.


XiXTT'EIEIFOOX.; EAST ESTATE.
A pleasantly-situated Property, thoroughly cleared, close to Liverpool Station. Torrens’ Title. £1 deposit; 10s. per month.
.A.. W. STEPHEN, 28 CASTIEBEAG-H STIRIEIET, SYDNEY.
“ A Golden Shanty
SST A Selection from the brightest of the original literary matter which has made The Bulletin world-famous. Price, Is. ; posted, 3d. extra.
The Australian Mercantile Loan and
Guarantee Co. (Limited).
Head Office ;
Corner of Market ami York Streets, SYDNEY'.
Melbourne—2B3 Collins-street East.
Brisbane—Corner Edward and Elizabeth Streets.
Newcastle—27 Hunter-street.
Directorate:
FRANK J. SMITH, Esq., M.L.A., Managing Director.
J. P. HOWE, Esq., M.L.A. G. J. FINLAYSON, Esq.
E. H. BUCHANAN, Esq. JAMES MILLER, Esq.
The Company grant immediate advances upon
Deeds of Land, Bills of Lading, Merchandise,
Storage, and Bond Certificates, and all classes of
mercantile and other approved securities, for fixed
terms or repayable by instalments.
Interest Allowed on Deposits:
3 months ... 6 per cent.
A. MILLER ... General Manager.
—THE—
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL
FIRE
Insurance Society.
Established 1872.
Bonuses
OP
20 per cent. Paid Annually
since 1873.
Head Office
-THE
Oldest Mutual Fire Office
in Australia.
Claims promptly and liberally
settled. Fifteen days’ grace
allowed for Renewal of Policies.
Lowest Current Rates charged.
Hon. George Thornton, M.L.G.,
Chairman.
Head Office:
Corner Pitt & King Streets,
SYDNEY.
Walter Church ... Manager.
THE
Australian Banking Company,
LIMITED.
PITT and MARKET STREETS, SYDNEY,
Incorporated under the Companies Act , ISV,.
Authorised Capital, £500,000, in 100,000 Shares of £5 each.
Subscribed Capital, £75,000.
FRANCIS ABIGAIL, M.L.A.,
Chairman of the Board of Directors.
A Branch of the Bank has been opened at Goulburn
under the management of C. H. Atkinson, Esq. (lately
Branch Manager of the Bank of New South Wales) for the
transaction of General Banking Business.
The Bank has paid its Shareholders a dividend of 10 per
cent, every half-year since its formation.
The Bank transacts all usual banking business in every
particular.
Special advantages granted to Commercial Clients.
Overdrafts granted against deposit of Deeds.
THE HIGHEST RATES OF INTEREST GIVEN FOR
FIXED DEPOSITS.
The Share Register is now open for the allotment of
Shares—New Issue.
By order of the Board of Directors.
RODERICK M'NAMARA, Manager.
Forms of application for Shares may be obtained at the
Bank.
GEORGE ST.,
SYDNEY.
F. LASSETTER & CO., LTD.
GEORGE ST.,
SYBNEY.
S E 5
CAKE OR BISCUIT CASKET,
Electro Silver on Nickel, Price £5 58.
'.V
m
OAK LIQUOR FRAME, Cut Bottles, Price £2 15g.
AFTERNOON
TEA-SETS,
IV*
m W
FROM
£2 15s- UPWARDS
o
Afternoon Tea-Set,
Electro Silver on Nickel,
Price (with lids to Sugar and Cream), £7.
ò
A LARGE
Assortment
Of
LIQUOR
FRAMES,
—FROM—
.SB2 15. TO £io
EACH.
O'
1/
n alt
C&dti
s 5
ro'
s
acjf
*
5098
A LARGE
Assortment
OF
DINNER CRUETS,
From 30s. to £8 10s.
LUNCHEON CRUETS,
From 10s. Gd. each.
PICKLE CRUETS,
From 10s. 6d. each.
llin. SALVER ELECTRO SILVER on NICKEL,
Price, £4 4s.
WRITE FOR OUR
Hew Illustrated Catalogue
OF
STERLING SILVER, ELECTRO SILVER, JEWELLERY.
CUTLERY, &c., POST FREE.
£ —
SIX CUP EGG-STAND.
Electro Silver on Nickel,
Price, £4 ss,
SIX BOTTLE CRUET.
Electro Silver on Nickel—Richly cut Bottles.
Price, £4 10s.
XW Our stock of ELECTRO SILVER PLATE is not only the LARGEST, but BEST ASSORTED in Australasia. We import the BESI
QUALITY MANUFACTURED, and always have bn view in our extensive showrooms the newest and latest designs in all articles.
CITY MUTUAL FIRE INSURANCE
COMPANY, Limited.
Established 1877.
Capital ... ... £500,000.
Head Office:
25 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY.
A Cash Bonus of 10 per cent, is paid to Policyholders
on renewals every year. Insurances covering Loss by Fire,
Lightning or Gas Explosion at Lowest Rates.
The DIVIDEND of 8 PER CENT, to 31st December,
1889, is now being paid, and the BONUS ot 10 PER
CENT, to Policyholders will, as usual, he paid on re-
newal of their policies.
Money to Lend on Approved Security.
N.B.—The Bonus paid is equal to that paid by any
Fire Company in Sydney.
ROBERT KERR, Manager.
—THE—
Electro-Magnetic
Massage Institvite,
For the cure of—
Rheumatism Lumbago, Sciatica, Debility,
Gouty and Neuralgic Affections,
Muscular and Nervous Disorders
AH Cases under Medical Supervision. Ladies
attended by specially-trained Nurses.
94 * DARLINGHURST * ROAD,
SYDNEY.
Attendance : 9to 1 a.m.; 7 to 10 p.m.
Process Protected by Letters Patent.
The LONDON & SYDNEY TEA COMPANY,
IMPORTERS OF HIGH-CLASS TEAS,
409 KENT STREET, SYD3NTEY.
Packed in 12, 20, and 40ft Caddies
@ Is. 6d., Is. 9d., and 2s. per ft.
d
J
j
V -
S'
i
f
iZ
y
Delivered free to any Railway Station
or Port in New South Wales.
“ No. John ;no more Tea from you. I buy now from the London and Sydney Tea Company.”
READ THIS
Western Australia is a much richer colony than is
generally supposed as regards minerals, agriculture and
pastoralism.—Sir Samuel Griffith.
Professor Brown, of Victoria, who made a thorough
examination of the south-western portion of Western
Australia, states that not the other colonies only, but
even the people of Western Australia evidently do not
know how much there is waiting for development. He
saw thousands of acres in contiguous blocks of fine choco-
late lands, light clay loams, and peaty soils. He thinks
the important features of the district are its grand climate
and regular rainfall.
“ History repeats itself,” and as surely as Sydney and
Melbourne have made lightning-like progress, so will
PERTH,"
the Capital of West Australia.
TEN POUND BUILDING SITES
at PERTH, WESTERN AUSTRALIA,
Large Allotments, Splendid Position, Good Land.
Only ,£1 deposit, easy terms ; discount for cash. Buyers
of five lots receive a free deed. Title (Torrens’s) guaran-
teed to be indisputable.
Also, CITY LOTS, from £33 each,
on similarly easy terms.
Marked plans and pamphlets posted to any address on
application to
THE INTERCOLONIAL INVESTMENT
COMPANY, Limited,
96 Bathurst-street, Sydney,
W. J. DOUGLAS, Manager.
o
Investment, LandL and Building
Company, Limited.
Authorised Capital, £lOO,OOO ... Reserves and Uncalled Capital, £37,000.
Pvnu for Darosus: 12 months, 7 per cent.; 6 months, 6J per cent; at call, 5 per cent
Bonus to 12 months’ Depositors.
Directors: J Garrard, M.P., Hon. J. H. Young, M.P., J. P. Walkbr, J.P., John C. Hamilton.
J. D. Ward, Manager, 327 Pitt-street, Sydney.
BANK.
327 PITT STREET S Y ID 2ST IE Y


The Bulletin
Vol. 11-No 529.
SATURDAY, JUNE 14, 1890.
Price, 6cL
a F/NE HOm 15 To 8E
erected o nthis site
Ton SHinDytUr vto
By
By S'.Q O0L
Conthhcjor. .
lit
tyeif vcL
'~T* m
A
'^y/ui
iA rf'ff otS
ò
“NO DOCTRINAL OBJECTION.”
“Bishop Moorhouse says there is no doctrinal objection to cremation, but that he considers the old method of burial more decent.”—CABLE.
BESIDES, YOU SEE, THERE IS NOTHING IN THE PRESENT BURIAL SERVICE THAT WILL FIT CREMATION.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
“Australia for the Australians.”
Proprietors : BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO.,
Limited.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
&.T 24 PITT-BTREET, SYDNEY, NEW SOUTH WALKS.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(payable in advance, only).
Per Annum £lO 0
Half-yearly 0 12 6
Quarterly ... ••• ••• ••• •••
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Macleod, Managing Director.
Literary Communications to be addressed to J. F.
Archibald.
The Editor mil carefully read and acknowledge in tne
“Correspondence" column all contributions submitted
whether in the form of Political, Social, or other Articles,
Verse, Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in
length, or say SOOO words, are specially acceptable).
Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper-Clippings. All
communications will be regarded as strictly confidential.
<< The Bulletin” will return all unavailable MSS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we
desire thoti sending MSS. to distinctly understand that
we are not responsible for the preservation or transmission
of such MSS.
NOTICE.
By sending direct loTiie Bulletin- Office Twenty Shillings
sterling—which you may pay by Post Office Order, One
Pound Note, or Stamps of any Australian colony—you
can have The Bulletin posted regularly to you every week
for a year.
This offer is not open to residents of Sydney. In that
city The Bulletin’ is not delivered by mail, but is entirely
in the hands of our carriers, with whom we do not xvish
to interfere.
SATURDAY. JUNE 14, 1800.
The Federal Outlook.
It is not possible to nourish any sanguine
expectations that ‘hr Henry Parkes’ move-
ment in the direction of Federation will be
more successful than have been the numerous
similar attempts which have preceded it*
The interests affected are so numerous and
so conflicting ; the agencies to be employed
are so diverse and so variously constituted ;
the machinery to be set in motion is so com-
plicated, that the accomplishment of a uni-
form result becomes exceedingly difficult.
To overcome resistances so varied, a motive
power of immense force is a peremptory
necessity. The first effort, that of overcom-
ing the’, vis mertue, exacts an exertion of
prodigious vigor. It may, however, be ad-
mitted that an absolute inertia has not to be
encountered. A slow and partial movement
in the direction of Federation already exists,
and has been in operation for a considerable
period. It has probably been a recognition
of that fact, and an exaggerated appreciation
of its universality that has, at least par-
tially, prompted Sir Henry Parkes to
assume the role of pilot, and to undertake
to reach Federation within a couple of years.
But we apprehend tlxat the motive power is
yet inadequate for the rapid achievement of
the work to be accomplished. The original
source of impulse alleged by Sir Henry
Parkes to have stimulated him into activity,
is transparently fictitious. The Premier as-
serted that the subject of Federation had
been “brought to the surface at the present
juncture'’ by “a great and pressing military
question,” Now if this was an accurate
statement, the cause of Federation would
find strong assistance. A ‘ ‘ great and press-
ing” danger such as would direct the atten-
tion of the colonists to military exigencies,
would assuredly dispose them to organise an
effective union of control even at the sacri-
fice of many things, which, under less urgent
circumstances they might hesitate to concede.
# # *
In sober reality, upon whose mind among
the entire population of the colonies, does a
sense of urgent military necessity press ?
Are the people agitated by apprehensions of
that nature, immediate or even remote ?
There has been no indication of anything of
the kind in the press. There have been no
public meetings. Every appearance induces
the conclusion that with respect-to martial
anxieties the condition of the public mind
has been and continues in its normal state of
quietude. There does not exist, even as re-
gards Premier Parkes himself, the faintest
symptom that the question of defence had,
up to the moment when he took up the
question of Federation, been, even in a
secondary degree, the subject of his con-
sideration. If military requirements be, as
he affirms, of momentous urgency, the
obvious truth is that an agitation for Federa-
tion is precisely the worst way to grapple
with the crisis. Unquestionably, the speediest
way to put the colonies in an attitude of
defence would be for each of the colonial
Governments to set to work to create its
contingent of trained and disciplined forces,
ht and ready to be welded together under a
common command, the very moment that
absolute necessity demanded that such a
combination should be achieved. When the
military fever heated the blood of the
populations of Australia, and excited them
to a delirium of martial fervour, nice con-
siderations of legality or of constitutional
powers and disabilities were not allowed to
stand in the way. On the mere decree of a
Minister —and he not even Premier—con-
stitutional restraints were ruptured. With-
out the sanction of Parliament —without
even the delay of a week which would have
sufficed to summon an extraordinary session
of the Legislature—a military force was
organised, levied, equipped, and despatched.
Despatched, be it remembered, not merely
across an imaginary line on the map of Aus-
tralia ; not to carry succour to a sister pro-
vince, the subjugation of which by a foreign
assailant would have compromised the
security of New South Wales. But de-
spatched beyond the seas to regions thou-
sands of miles distant to participate in a
scandalous aggression in which Australians,
as such, had not the slightest concern.
* * *
If such peremptory methods were possible
under such conditions, what occasion for
doubt can there be that in the event of
any province being menaced by invasion
means would be found for facilitating the em-
ployment of the troops of the other Austra-
lian provinces within its territory?. Nothing
in reality could be more simple and easy
of accomplishment in each colony ; for the
Governor is Commander-in-Chief of the
forces. In no colony does the former resident
of another require any form of naturalisation
to enter upon the rights and duties of citizen-
ship. The man who gives up his residence
in Albury to settle at Wodonga, becomes a
Victorian the day he enters his house in the
latter city, and is subject in all respects to its
laws. To place a whole army-corps of New
South Wales troops effectively at the disposal
of Victoria, all that would be necessary would
be to march them across the border, and
swear them in afresh when they had taken
two paces over the line of demarcation. The
prime necessity is to have the army. Sir
Henry Parkes, despite his plea of pressing
military necessity, has not lifted a finger in
that direction.
# # #
The “pressing military question” being
mythical, what are the true impulses which
give motive force to the Federation pro-
posals. There is a general disposition,
we conceive, to regard with favour the idea
of a closer fellowship between the colonies.
But the Federation which is thus approved
is a nebulous and indefinite ideal. Few
among those who believe themselves favour-
able to it have really shaped out the details
in their minds. In Australian colonists the
practical elements strongly predominate over
the imaginative. What are we to gain? is the
question to which they are apt to submit all
propositions. Now the advantages derivable
from Federation are not superficial. They
do not lie on the surface, where every man
can pick up a piece and pocket it. On the
other hand, the disabilities involved in the
realisation of a Federal Union crop up with
aggressive extrusiveness. They are distinctly
visible to every creature whose gaze is down-
ward and whose ordinary outlook is a few
paces ahead. Far-sighted men whose states-
man-like range of vision extends to the
horizon limit of human knowledge backward
and of national deduction forward, are apt
to take these trifling stumbling-blocks too
slightly into consideration. But those whose
intellectual gaze pierces the heavens are few,
and those who see only at close range are
many. In an undertaking such as that of
inducing the peoples of Australia to sink
minor considerations and elect the lofty con-
ception of Federation, the larger minded men
are liable to be overwhelmed by the resist-
ence of those of more restricted views.
# # # .
Besides his fanciful conception of a
“pressing military question,” Sir Henry
Parkes has propounded no reasons in favour
of Federation which are in any sense tangible
and effective. He does not appear to have
been actuated in undertaking his crusade by
any deliberate convictions. A perusal of his
various speeches, delivered prior to the recent
Conference, at the Conference, and when in-
troducing in the Assembly the resolutions
affirming the desirability of progressive
action, exposes a singular barrenness of
practical reasons. His ideas of Federation
seem all to be, where Gov. Carington pro-
nounced Federation itself to be situated,
“in the air.” There is a superfluity of fine
phrases. But there is a dearth of rational
argument. Moreover, Sir Henry has can-
celled a great deal of the effect of the tine
things ho first said by his late speeches, and
his actions have run contrary to his declara-
tions all through the piece. He stimulated
the national sentiments of Young Australia
by his glowing references to an Australian
flag, a new member among the nations of the
world, a grander and loftier destiny than
heretofore, and by similar oratorical flourishes.
But scarcely had the acclaim with which this
high-pitched declamation was hailed, died out,
when he vehemently insisted that Mr. Bibbs,
the leader of the Opposition, was utterly dis-
qualified from taking any part in the framing
of a Federal Constitution, because Mr. Bibbs
had taken him literally at his word, and
pronounced emphatically in favour of that
Independence without which the national
flag, the national sentiment, the grander
destiny are nonsensical rhetorical balderdash.
» * *
This prodigious change of tone on the part
of Premier Parkes cannot fail to have a
most prejudicial influence with respect to
the prospects of realising Federation. It
effectually throws cold water upon the hottest
fire which keeps up the steam necessary to
move the machine. Unquestionably the
most ardent advocates of Federation among
the general population are the young Austra-
lian idealists, whose aspirations are almost
invariably for a distinct national organism for
a Republic, detached from all exterior con-
trol, relieved from all extraneous causes
of disturbance, and free to expand its demo-
cratic institutions. Should that body of
Federalists take umbrage at the Premier’s
recent swing towards Imperialism, his
chances of finding in New South Wales ade-
quate support to enable him to prevail over
the antipathetic forces, which already have
commenced to rally and muster, become ex-
ceedingly doubtful. Already in his own
camp there is vigorous insurrection. The
Provincialists are being marched off from
one postern by Mr. Want. The uncompro-
mising Freetraders are being got under arms
for a conflict by Mr. Reid. Even his own
officers are not to be relied upon. The
members of the Cabinet have taken the
oath of allegiance to Freetrade, and the
strong-willed Mr. Bruce Smith, Minister
for Works, has informed the country that
they have never even once been invited to
transfer their fealty to Federation. They
are re-pledged to nothing and hold them-
selves at liberty to refuse to follow one step
further than they think fit in the new cam-
paign which their chief has, without so much
as a council of war, undertaken. The servile
crew who are simply Parkesites because it
has been advantageous to cling to a strong
man in the days of his prosperity, are silent,
keeping their eyes upon the constituencies,
ready to desert their patron should that
appear the more advantageous course —pre-
pared to figure at next election as Federalist-
Parkesites, or faithful F reetrade-anti-PARKES-
cum - Federation-cnm-Protection-against-the-
worldites, as may appear likely best to serve
their turn.
* * *
On the Protectionist benches also there is
discordance. The leader of the Opposition
is obviously uncomfortable, and has little
relish for the prospect of seeing a chief item
in his party’s programme dished by the rival
leader. Mr. Slattery has moved an
amendment which is essentially sympathetic
with the provincialism of Mr. Want.
Among the other members who have yet
spoken there is discoverable considerable
discrepancy of opinions as to the scope and
character of the Federation which (would be
acceptable. Mr, Traill, as Mr. Bibbs truly
interjected, goes further than the Premier,
and marched towards the national type of
Federation with determined and resolute
strides, while his speech showed that though
uneasy at the company he was dragged into,
he had far more carefully examined the
ground and reconnoitred the opposing forces
than had the Premier himself. Considered
comprehensively, the Protectionists showed
themselves much more at their case than the
Freetraders. They disliked and viewed with
suspicion the volunteered leadership of the
great deserter from Freetrade, but a cam-
paign in aid of Federation, although pre-
maturely thrust upon them, is not new to
their minds, and consequently involved them
in no serious confusion.
# * *
If, therefore, the accomplishment of Fede-
ration rested with New South Wales alone,
its realisation would even now be problema-
tical at this juncture. The personal prestige
of Sir Henry Parkes might have carried it
with a rush, aided by the support of
the bulk of the Protectionists, before the
majority of Freetraders had clearly appre-
ciated whither they ivere being led, had
realized the treason of their trusted chief,
or had released themselves from their habit
of unquestioning acquiescence in any course
which his art of sophistry recommended to
them as sound. But the first intention of
rushing the matter has miscarried. The
-Freetraders have gained time for reflec-
tion. The Provincialists are making head.
The Nationalists are disenchanted and
rendered suspicious by the Premier’s later
attitude of crouching “ under the Crown,”
the province thirsts for domestic legislation,
and the other colonies have yet to speak
their word. In Victoria the Opposition in-
tend to contest the Federation resolutions
line by line. In South Australia the Pre-
mier is little likely to feel any strong desire
to help the man who gratuitously insulted
him at the Conference to attain the object of
his ambition. In Queensland the matter
seems to have excited but little interest.
Finally, in no colony has the voice of the
people yet made itself heard. Until that
sound rings out all other notes are insigni-
ficant.
Government by Accident.
The suggestion recently made in many quarters
that the principle of the Referendum, as practised
in Switzerland and several other countries, should
be adopted in Australia, is a tacit admission that
we are governed chiefly by Accident. The paro-
chial philosopher who laid down the statement
that the law is an ass left, at least, one established
truth behind him, and if the world begins to lose
confidence in the men who constructed this; ass it
is only following a logical process in judging the
creator by the thing created. Therefore it is pro-
posed, in order to furnish the Government with
an occasionally lucid interval, that certain impor-
tant questions should be reserved for the personal
decision of the people at large— in other words,
that the nation should at any important crisis
make its ass directly instead of giving rise to that
object in the complex fashion at present in vogue;
and it is hoped that when a measure of great mo-
ment is enacted by a ballot of the whole com-
munity the product will be a more graceful and
useful animal than the one which at present
brays on the pages of the Statute-book. In
short, it is assumed that Parliament, as a
rule, is either devoid of sense and discre-
tion or is too mean to use these gifts except
for its own selfish ends, and, therefore, it is
considered advisable that that institution should
be chained up whenever there is a chance that its
meanness and mercenary spirit will do more harm
than usual. The Referendum is a scheme for re-
ducing an unavoidable evil to the lowest possible
denomination ; it is based on the assumption that
the Legislature does not represent the people
unless when it has an occasional sane interval, or
when it can make something by a temporary
access of wisdom, and it implies also that the
people, either through ignorance or original sin or
both combined, habitually choose for their repre-
sentatives men whom they know to be incapable
or disreputable. Further, by taking important
matters out of the hands of the Legislature to
submit them to the men by whom the Legislature
was made, it decides that the nation is the more
intelligent body of the two, and that even while
electing the stupidest or meanest part of the com-
munity to conduct its affairs it is capable of better
things. It is felt, in fact, that the present system
does not afford sufficient facilities for auditing the
great national swindle, and it says little for the
national intelligence that the discovery was not
made at an earlier date.
* * *
Australia is governed mostly by accident. Its
administration is a perpetual “ toss-up, ” and its
laws are made on the same principle which guides
it when shaking for drinks in a bush hotel. In a
comparatively small Assembly a majority of five
is amply sufficient to ensure the passing of any
measure, and these five consist most probably of
the member for Smith’s Curse, who was elected
on his solemn promise to get a railway made from
an old volcanic cone to a digger’s sepulchre, with
a branch running out into a desert of bottomless
sand where some bones were found in the year
’O2; and the representative fr®m Jones’ Ruins
who pledged himself to have the local graveyard
fenced in and undertook to level the Government
in the dust unless the cow was taken out of the
adjacent waterhole ; and the man who is supported
by an ignorant body of Orangemen, partly because
he believes that his opponent is the beast men-
tioned in Revelations, and partly because it; is
understood that the other party wants to blow
something up; and along witii these there is
the individual who was returned because ho
was born at Ballymena beyant and is sole
proprietor of the Busted Mullock claim, and
consequently has a “ stake ” in the district;
and the person who rose to greatness because he
led the hymn in a serious community and was
understood to have a contrite heart. Probably even
their own supporters appraise these talented law-
givers at their true value ; but then it is a recog-
nised axiom that unless the representative has a
direct interest in the locality he represents, that
district is likely to come off badly in the distribu-
tion of these seven great principles, the five loaves
and the two small fishes —in other words, that the
member for Jones’s Ruins will do nothing for that
locality unless he has some personal object in
view, and that the Government will do nothing
for Jones’s Ruins unless the local represen-
tative harasses its members until they wish
that they were dead and out of his reach. Con-
sequently, the first business of the electorate is to
return a vociferous individual, who v ill make
earth hideous unless something is given him to
keep him quiet, and the paramount anxiety of the
chosen one is to fill the air with bad grammar and
profanity until he gets something for his sup-
porters which will make his calling and election
sure at the next political crisis, and anything in
the way of general government which is done after
this great mission is attended to is done mostly by
accident. Or if the public business travels accord-
ing to any fixed rule, it generally happens that
the old parochial spirit is still the governing
agency. If the member for Smith’s Curse gets
his railway, he will die in the last ditch for the
great cause of Freetrade, provided the man who
gave the railway wanted him to ; but if that
means of communication is denied him, he pro-
bably issues a manifesto to his supporters, the
burden of which is “i hev decided that pakKes is
contrary to the best interests of the kountry,” and
politics begin to assume a new aspect.
* * *
The Referendum is the natural result of this
state of affairs. The mere fact that a politician
is an adept at securing concessions for his parti-
cular district is no more an evidence that he is
capable of shaping the destinies of the country
than the circumstance of a man having got his
feet frozen is a decisive proof of his ability to sell
tea to advantage. He may, by accident, combine
both qualifications, but such an event is of very
rare occurrence. Consequently the law, the pro-
duct of these unqualified lawmakers, is essentially
an ass being the natural reflex of its makers, and
the legislator, as the person in charge of that
animal, is the ass’s keeper. The country, how-
ever, is gradually awakening to the fact that the
zoological curiosity is in unsafe hands, and there-
fore it is proposed, in effect that the whole nation
should constitute itself into a Parliament of a
million members to vote all important measures,
and thus leave the Legislature free to fulfil its
mission as an insane pandemonium clawing wildly
and frenziedly after borrowed millions. Under
present circumstances that august body 1S
frequently interrupted, just when it is fid'
ing the halls of State with a cataract ot
verbal dust and ashes, by the necessity of federat-
ing Australia, or performing some other dry, un-
interesting act in which, as the member for Smith s
Curse is painfully conscious, his parish has no very
direct interest; or else, just when an ex-ministei
is about to rise and propound the thrilling ques-
tion, “ Why weren’t my minit on this subject no
attended to?” the way is blocked by some pro-
found individual with a resolution which has no
money or blasphemy or interesting obstruction in
it, and which is only intended to promote the
moral well-being of the community. I he first


duty of Parliament is obviously to quarrel and
curse; the second is to scramble for local grants,
no matter where the money may come from ; and
the third to fill in any time that is left after the
performance of its other functions by a little legis-
lation. If it cannot find time for all three occu-
pations, the next best thing is that the nation in
general should legislate, and leave the Parliament
to rush after the loan money and curse at large.
* # *
Unfortunately, so far as can yet be seen. Par-
liament is the only body to which the working of
the Referendum can bo entrusted. No doubt any
question might be submitted to the popular ballot
on the demand of a certain number of citizens,
but in this case many important questions would
pass unchallenged simply because the nation was
too tired or too apathetic to take note of their
urgency ; and if the proposed reform is to be of
any practical value it must also be allowable for
a certain number of members to require that a
general vote shad bo taken on any vital measure
’then under discussion. And here the inherent
obstructiveness of the member for Smith’s Curse
becomes an important factor in the problem, for it
is absolutely certain that, if that person is not
supplied with the railway he demands for his par-
ticular desert, he and his tribe will retaliate by
calling for a national vote on every question which
rises on his mental horizon, while if he does get
his railway he will block every attempt in that
direction so long as his effief bids him do so.
With a powerful and obstructive Opposition the
plebiscite would presently become the normal
state of the country, and it would be a cold day
when the nation was not called upon to rise up and
vote on some matter of greater or less importance.
In the old free communes of the Ukraine the
Referendum was seen in its greatest completeness.
There at one time the legislative and judicial body
consisted of the whole community, and even the
smallest offender could only be fined or im-
prisoned by a unanimous vote—in fact, he himself
had to be unanimous with the rest. Generally,
after three days and nights of ceaseless discussion,
the last malcontent—the defendant himself —gave
in, but the wear and tear of this mode of govern-
ment was so tremendous that it speedily collapsed.
Yet, if the working of the machine is to be
entrusted to that typical legislate!’, the soured
and aggravated law-maker from the township of
Smith’s Corse, it will certainly be no fault of his
if some such state of anarchy does not presently
ensue
# * #
Again the Referendum offers no cure for two
very prominent evils. In the first place it cannot
originate any new legislation, but merely provides
for a popular vote on measures submitted by Par-
liament, and consequently those urgent reforms
which no Australian Parliament has yet had sense
enough to originate are as likely to remain in
abeyance as before. And, secondly, it must be
remembered that most of the measures passed by
the various legislatures are more or less desirable
innovations rendered impotent and nmvorkable
by the ignorance and" incapacity with which they
are framed. But as it is impossible for the whole
people to go into committee and consider amend-
ments, the vote must practically be for or against
the Bill as it stands in all its well-meaning in-
capacity and stupidity, and the country must
either give its decision against reform and thereby
leave it to be inferred that it prefei-s the old abuses
to remain as they are, or accept a scheme which
will abolish an ancient evil only to raise hopeless
confusion in its stead.
* * #
Nevertheless, this scheme by which all matters
of national importance will be removed out of the
mephitic atmosphere of party politics and decided
by the nation at large is a magnificent conception,
but if it is to be of any practical service there
must be some guarantee that at least an occasional
measure adorned with some shred of common-sense
shall be submitted to the popular vote, and that
the people will not be confined merely to a choice
between the old foolishness and the new. The
country does not want to choose, for example,
between an utter rejection of the doctrine of Aus-
tralian Federation, and the establishment of a
federated State with a hereditary Upper House
and the other fixtures and fittings of imported
grovel, and it wants to have something better to
consider than the sort of measure habitually
drafted by the illiterate fanatic, who was returned
by an obscure constituency on the ground that the
other party had a leaning towards idolatry and
wanted to jump on the ruins of the Terewth, with
amendments inserted by the vociferous lecturer
who spells God with a small “g.” If the
average Parliament is not improved, it is
incapable of offering the nation anything worth
voting about, and if the nation is not capable
of improving it then it doesn’t know enough for
the Referendum to be of any use to it. The first
step to a general reform is the abolition of the
parochial incubus from Smith’s Curse, and this
can only be done by abolishing the present system
of constituencies entirely, by forming each colony
into a single electorate, where each elector will
have as many votes as there arc members to be
returned, and by abandoning all local affairs to be
managed by local bodies. Under these condition*
it will no longer be l possible for the question of a
new gaol or a fence round a cemetery to decide
the policy of a country, and a candidate for Par-
liament must have at least some semblance of a
national reputation before he can hope for success.
And if a Legislature composed of a hundred men
of national reputation proves itself as incompetent
as the assemblages elected under the present sys-
tem of government by accident, then it can only
be assumed that the country has not produced
enough honest and capable men to go round, and
what may happen to that kind of country doesn’t
much matter.
Wegotism or Egotism?
Hon. Julian E. Salomons, Q.C., who carries to
Parliament a good deal of the pugnacity and im-
pulsiveness which characterises him in the law-
courts, entertained the New South Wales Legis-
lative Council one night last week with what he
and his fellow-members seemed to regard as a
brand-new scheme for keeping the writing of the
leading articles in the newspapers in the hands of
the aged and Respectable. Mr, Salomons hoped,
at an early date, to be the instrument of
having a law embodying this scheme placed
on the Statute-book. As propounded, ex-
panded, and illustrated by himself, Mr. Hey-
Don, and others, the scheme is, it must be
admitted, inexpressibly simple in structure—so
simple that the reader is disposed to class it among
t he products of inorganic rather than of organic
nature. It consists solely in an enactment which
shall compel the writers of leading articles to
attach their names to their work. Mr. Salomons
says this will get rid of the “beardless boy”
leader-writer, and Mr. Hevdon says it will open
the door to writers of “ great social standing.” It
is usual for politicians whose days are past to hold
the Press in low repute ; it is common for poli-
ticians whose courses are wrong, or who are fight-
ing an up-hill battle against odds, to denounce the
Press bitterly at frequent intervals; but it may-
be safely stated that outside the Legislative Council
of New South Wales no considerable number of
public men could be found who would give favour-
able attention to such a jointless, boneless scheme
of vindictive anger as Mr. Salomons has pro-
mised to produce. And this we say, while fully
admitting that Mr. Salomons is perfectly right in
his contention that the Press gives no honest idea
of what is said and takes place in Parliament.
# # #
Suppose Mr. Salomons puts his Act on the
Statute-book, what then? How shall it be
obeyed ? In general, whose is any leading article ?
Is it the offspring of a single brain ? Is it the
child of the editor —or that of the proprietor who
employs him? Mr. Salomons was alluding par-
ticularly to articles on current politics and politi-
cians, but these are the articles which almost
without an exception are the product of several
minds. Two minds at least are concerned in the
production of such articles. The editors of many
papers rarely write, articles, but the articles'
which appear in their journals contain nevertheless
a material portion of their intellectual power. The
editor may contribute the arguments, the facts—
the writer’s part may be no more than the words
and style. Now, under the proposed Salomons’
Act, whose name is to be appended in these cases ?
Not the editor’s, for he did not write the article;
and not the writer’s, for in no strict sense of
authorship is the article his. It sometimes hap-
pens that a third and fourth person will help in
the building up of an article, and when this takes
place whose name is to be subscribed ? Who is to
go forth to the public as author of the article ?
But, allowing that some way can be found
out of the difficulties here raised, other
and graver difficulties present themselves. Might
not writers adopt noms de plume and would not
offices accept these pen-names ? In France,
where signed articles are considered to be the
rule, a pen-name is that which in most oases is
used. Brilliant writers who win fame over their
pen-names drop their family names and wear
their laurels with the assumed ones. Will the
Salomons’ Act propose to penalise such a practice
here, or will it compel the newspaper proprietors
to make each writer produce a record of his real
title from the baptismal register ? If not, what
will be the use of the new Act ?
* # #
In no way are we condemning onymity in
journalism. Anonymity, when regarded from
various standpoints, possesses advantages, and so
does onymity. The journalist who writes cleverly
over his own name becomes favourably known, not
alone among his own class, but to the outside
public. He acquires a twofold reputation, and to
that extent is better circumstanced than if he
owned only one. On the other hand, a newspaper
proprietary are justified in putting forward
anonymous articles they purchase, and thus
acquiring wholly for the paper the public com-
mendation which, were the articles signed, would
at least in part accrue to the writer. A newspaper
is a business establishment in which the proprie-
tary assume heavy risks, and has the same right,
should it choose to exercise it, to insist on anony-
mity with respect to articles as the boot shop or
tailor’s shop has to insist on anonymity with respect
to boots or clothes. The writer who sells his
article or series of articles or his labour generally
is in exactly the same position as the shoemaker or
tailor, and, so far as the business relationship is
concerned, possesses no better claim to have his
name attached to his work than has one of these
to have his on the sole of each boot, or the other
on the collar of each coat he makes. But, apart
from all this, it is by no means the invariable
practice of newspapers to refuse to allow writers
—we do not now allude to leading articles —to ap-
pend their names to their work. For example,
many now well-known writers whose names will
readily occur have gained popularity under their
real names by subscribing their signatures to
matter in The Bulletin.
* # #
This genuinely interesting question is, however,
but incidentally involved in Mr. Salomons’ threat
of a legal enactment. What appears to have
stood before him and monopolised both eyesight
and intellect was the unsigned leading article in
which the awful talismanic “We” is employed.
According to Mr. Salomons, that “We” may be
written by a beardless boy, and, according to Mr.
He ydon, by some one of no particular social
standing. If the threatened enactment be
limited as indicated the sole object of the new Act
will be to rout these particular persons, if there
actually be such persons there, out of the leading
columns of the newspapers. Let ns see how the
matter looks in this light. Whether it be a beard-
less boy or a bald-headed octogenarian who writes
an acceptable article, the proprietors of a paper,
through their editor, make it theirs when they
use it. It becomes their article, their voice, and
conveys their sentiments. We have adverted al-
ready to the usual and natural genesisof the leading
article, but whether such an article emanate from
one or from several, and whether all be grey-
haired or all beardless, the adoption of the
article by a newspaper makes it the approved
utterance of the management of that paper whether
the management consists of one or of several men.
That is the authority which leading articles at
present carry with them. What better authority
can be secured under the proposed Act? Simi-
larly as regards social status. Whether the
writer be shoeless and in rags, or clad in purple
and fine linen, the fact that his article appears in
the leading columns makes his words the words of
the man or firm which publishes them, and these
words go to the public not with the surroundings
of the author, but those which the paper has
earned for itself in the estimation of the public.
Many a bad priest has preached a good sermon.
Many a secretly immoral judge has delivered a
good judgment. Where, under such a law as that
proposed, would be the chance of the brilliant
journalist who happened to be under a social cloud,
for addressing the public ? And here The Bul-
letin must say that many of the best, the
brightest, the most eloquent journalists it has
ever met have been men who, despite their brains,
would have been spurned as lepers in the severely
respectable Legislative Council of New South
Wales. A sidelight is thrown upon this question
by the celebrated Clontarf case in which The
Bulletin was proceeded against for libel on
the plaintiffs’ erroneous supposition that the
offending article came from the pen of a certain
wayward genius who had been at war with society
instead of from a less unorthodox source.
* * *
The proposed measure is, then, useless, and will
be abortive. But it displays worse features than
wantonneSs and barrenness. It is replete with
narrow prejudice and snobbish assumption.
“Beardless boys” have appeared in English
literature who have left better work behind than
Mr. Salomons or any other New South Wales
lawyer of to clay is likely to do. The
world would not to-day give up Chattkrton
and Kirke White for the possibilities of the
whole of the New South Wales Legislative Coun-
cil* Men, not of great social status — men
with gaol-records and heolless boots and
flashes of the fire of genius—have here in
Australia done work in journalism and literature
which will live considerably longer and wield a far
wider and healthier influence than the proceedings
of the Upper House ( can reasonably hope to do.
Where intellect reigns, the question of beards
and trappings is out of place. Mind speaks
to mind in a language which refuses to
accept as accessories grey hairs which come by
living long, and heavy money bags and social
status which are in the main accidents and are
often presumptive evidences of financial plunder-
ing and intellectual prostitution. The bright
thought is not dimmed because the thinker sits by
a dull candle in a garret or a cellar. It shines
down the ages as radiantly as if it sprang from a
head crowned with coronet or tiara. Mr.
Salomons and those like him have, through follow-
ing a profession where the interests of truth and
right are never paramount, and where, whether a
person have or have not a beard, he must wear on
his head the wig of a patriarch, apparently
conceived the idea that intellect should not show
itself without the accompaniments of a lavish
personal adornment and testimony of an assured
social position. But one of the things intellect
recognises as a duty is to show that external adorn-
ments and disguises are unnecessary even in courts
of law, and that men all round must be judged, not
by the accident of what is outside of them, but by
the merit of what is within. Instead, therefore,
of Mr. Salomons succeeding in subjecting the
appearance and status of Press writers to a code
of Regulee Generates, the teaching of events shows
that the Press will ere long succeed in forcing
lawyers to look like human beings while in pur-
suit of their calling.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Taming of George.
When the first copy of “ Progress and Poverty ”
which reached Australia found its way into The
Bulletin office, the principles therein enunciated
were communicated to our readers. The Bulle-
tin showed that Mr. George had struck upon a
fundamental truth, namely, that private owner-
ship of land is a fruitful cause of poverty among
the landless. At the same time The Bulletin
stickled at the particular remedy insisted upon by
Mr. George, and showed its inapplicableness to
the conditions prevailing in Australia. In order
to make the difference clear to our readers of to-
day, we may reiterate the distinction. Mr.
George pronounced that nothing short of confisca-
, tionof all rent would adequately cure the evil.
His own words are-
Let the individuals who now hold it, still retain,.if they
want to, possession of what they are pleased to call their
land. Let them continue to call it their land. Let them
buy and sell and bequeath and devise it. We may safely
leave them the shell if we take the kernel. It is not
necessary to confiscate land ; it is only necessary to con-
fiscate rent. . . . We already,take some rent in taxa-
tion. We have only to make some changes in our mode of
taxation to take it all.
Such is Mr. George's proposal as announced in
his own book. The Bulletin dissented, not
because the remedy would not be adequate, but
because it is unnecessarily drastic as applied to
Australian conditions, and must evoke antagon-
isms which would preclude the possibility of its
adoption: As a modification, The Bulletin
advocated a particular application of the plan
favoured by John Stuart Mill, for the appro-
priation by the State of future accretions of un-
earned increment. It is not necessary for our
present purpose to again elaborate the details.
It is sufficient to have shown what Henry George
advocated. Naturally enough, the S.M. Herald,
after a spell of its usual owlish policy of suppression
—that is to say, assuming a pretended unconscious-
ness that Henry George existed, or that Georgism
as a system was impressing itself upon men’s minds
—proceeded to its next usual stupid stage of policy.
It referred to Mr. George in a style of oppro-
brium and contempt. He was a fool; he was a
rogue; he was an unprincipled rascal; he advo-
cated robbery and incited to plunder. In short,
the organ of “ Pro putty” was in a rage, and spat
venom at the assailant of. propertied classes.
When Mr. George, after all, made his appearance
in Australia, the Herald, although something
mollified by the discovery that the horrid robber
advocated Freetrade as part of his system, received
him with marked coldness. Proputty in general,
in the person of all its representatives, gave him
the cold shoulder. Burdekin, the landlord par
excellence of Sydney, did indeed receive him at a
public luncheon. But Burdekin, the landlord, was
at pains to announce that it was as Mayor, not as
an individual, that he extended courtesy to
Mr. George, the confiscator. ' Mr, George has
now completed his mission. Is Proputty in
convulsions of rage or spasms of despair ? Not at
all. Proputty is in the highest glee, and is enthu-
siastically patting Mr. George upon the back.
He has proved perfectly tractable. He has, after
a test lecture or so, turned his back upon his own
principles and toned them down till their bite is
less formidable than that of a blind dog with its
teeth drawn. We should be sorry to say anything
harsh respecting the author of “Progress and
Poverty.” The worst we care to say is that he has
been dragged in the Triumph of Proputty : that he
has been pic-nicked by George Reid, farewell-
luncheoned at the brown-stone mansion of Bur-
dekin, the landlord, and praised by the Sydney
Morning Herald. There is more joy in the
monopolists’ heaven over one sinner that repenteth
than over any number of just men. For the
repentant George, Mr. Reid prepareth the flesh-
pots, Mr. BuRDEkiN killeth the fatted calf, and
the Sydney Morning Herald soundeth the loud
timbrel of monopoly in hymns of praise. We can
conceive no degradation more bitter for the author
of “ Progress and Poverty.”
♦
How history is made. Sutherland’s “History
of Australia,” the recognised text-book in Vic-
torian Public Schools, states that the reward
offered for Lalor’s apprehension after the Eureka
burst-up was £5OO. The actual sum was £2OO, the
former amount being offered for the body, dead or
alive, of the Hungarian Vern. M'Combie’s “His-
tory of Australia ” again states that Lalor lost
his right arm in the conflict. It mtis his left.
Here are two easily^-verifiable and simple particu-
lars misstated in important Works whose authors
had numberless opportunities of personally re-
ferring to the hero of the episode the historians
profess to recount. What about more recondite
items in that case? After all, the half-educated
newspaper reporter who gets his facts at first-
hand under pain of having Ids knuckles rapped or
his screw docked by a vigilant sub editor has no
reason to blush when a comparison in veracity is
drawn between himself and the maker of books.
♦ - -
Every now and then the Argus incautiously
allows the “Social Gossip from 1 lonic” gusher to
depart from the glorious traditions of Ids organ
and say something straight to the point. As, for
instance—“ To the visitor who has not been at the
Commons for some years, nothing would be more
striking than the change in the relative ages of
the two parties. Formerly the Radicals were the
youths, now they are the greybeards, whilst the
heavy fathers of the Tory benches have been
mostly superseded by gilded youths in short
jackets.” Things are evidently moving in the
right direction, although but slowly. Presently
the greybeards will be Tories to the men who
supersede them, while the'gilded youths in short
jackets will be trying to earn an honest crust
under a Government which has revolutionised the
land laws, burst up the Civil List, reformed the
Civil Service, and generally ruined the mildewed
beliefs of those young men’s tarnished family con-
nections. We want a lot more striking changes
yet, and the people who object to change will have
to be struck very hard,
One of the Premier Building Association auditors
has declared his'innocence before God, “Whose
he is and Whom he serves.” If he had served the
shareholders as much as he professes to serve
Heaven the effusive gentleman wouldn’t be on
anyone’s bad books just now. And without pre-
judice to Mr. Auditor John Holten, whoso
grammar is hideously bad, * it must- be can-
didly confessed that beaks are professionally
impervious to these solemn protestations. When
the renowned Mr. Wain weight, of Whitechapel,
was called upon to mention why sentence of death
should not be passed upon , him, that practised
elocutionist made a magnificent effort. “Stand-
ing here, on the brink of the grave, and under the
eye of that Great Judge to Whom I mu so shortly
account for the many sins of a wasted life, I swear
that I am guiltless of this crime, ’’said Wain weight.
The local judge—Chief Justice Cockburn or old
Mellor— sat back in his chair, with his eyes
closed, until the other gentleman had finished.
Whereupon the bewigged sceptic mildly beamed
upon the orator, and said, “Prisoner at the Bar,
the words you have just uttered only add to the
heinousness of your sin.” Although the distinc
tion between an accused auditor who has not been
tried and a cold-blooded murderer who has just-
been convicted, is tolerably vast, it has to be re-
membered that the Court asked Wainwkight to
say something, whereas the overwrought Mr.
Holten chipped in most irreverently. He ought
to understand that, legally speaking, any party
before the Court takes the name of the Deity in
vain, unless he is under oath at the time. In
which case the magistrate, or judge, ■ never—or
hardly ever—disbelieves everything he says.
Melbourne Age is beginning to realise the com-
pleteness of its failure to set Australia gushing
over the “Light Brigade” business. A vast
amount of space in that “valuable paper” has
been devoted’ to epistles from sympathisers with
the surviving troopers, and any man who sent
along a shilling con'd get his 20 or 30 lines of
hysterics printed. The “ Vagabond ” figured as
contributor of one guinea and a literary effort to
the good cause. Gifts of ninepence were grate-
fully acknowledged with due pomp and circum-
stance. But somehow they could infuse no real
life into the demonstration, and as a Bulletin
rhyme, in last issue, seemed to have got the true
hang of this Balaclava matter, the Age con-
structed a partial recantation on the lines of
our “ Bill.” Thuswise : “It seems paradoxical to
say that a coward may be a hero in spite of him-
self, and yet the gallantry of a squadron is not
necessarily an accurate measure of the personal
bravery of the troopers who compose it. A man
may fight because he is afraid of the consequences
rf ‘running away.’” Which expresses in prose
the exact sentiment of .the beautiful Bulletin
verses published two days previously :
To the chance of Rooshan bullets they was not so very
parshal,
But preferred it to the certainty o’ dying by court mar-
shal ;
And having some affection for old Hingland, ’ome, and
booty,
Them coves as couldn’t ’elp it went an’ waded in for
dooty.
.Why, certainly. “Didn’t you run away?” asks
Miss Naomi Tighe of her military admirer, in
Robertson’s comedy of “School.” “Noa, hadn't
sufficient pluck. Takes doosed plucky feller to
run away,” drawls the heavy dragoon.
-♦
Queensland is about to enjoy the experience of
an enormous deficit. Such a crusher will it prove
that the Northern Parliament is kept shut long
beyond the usual time in order to stave off the
ill-omened announcement. The Opposition organs
are cock-a-whoop, and can hardly contain them-
selves for joy. And yet a sad tale is slowly ap-
pearing as if in penny-numbers to show the cause
of a considerable portion of the deficiency. The
Cairns-Herberton railway, authorised by the
Griffith Government, is, owing to the log-rolling
of local men, being constructed over country so
scandalously unsuited toitthat it is tapping the ten-
million loan to a time with a crescendo movement.
The story now gradually filtering down to I Brisbane
from the Ear North is black and grim. Bottom-
less swamps into which thousands of pounds have
been chucked in the vain hope of securing a
foundation. Steep gradients and awful curves cut
into the face of granite cliff's at dizzy heights
over vast and gloomy “pockets”—sacrificing in
their construction numbers of young and lusty
men who have disappeared in the unexplored
depths below. Immense land - slips which
have utterly destroyed the works on which
so much that was precious to the com-
munity-men, time, money—had been expended.
All this could have been avoided by adopting an
alternative route through really suitable country,
but which had not the advantage of favouring the
personal interests of Parliamentarians. There is
little joy to be derived from contemplating the
present Government in Queensland, but when it
is boldly claimed for Sir Samuel Walker Grif-
fith, Q.C., K.O. M.G., that in contrast with the
present administration his was one of absolutely
business principles, a burning thirst is caused to
denounce the late ‘ 1 One-Man ” Government for
what it really was.
The other day somebody made the mistake
of mistaking J. L. Toole for the stage door-
keeper. A somewhat similar mistake was made
years ago at Maryborough (Q.) by a man who,
seeing the then sheriff of Queensland (Mr. A. E.
Halloran, who died a fortnight ago) on the
verandah of the Royal Hotel, greeted him as the
landlord. “My good young man,” said Mr.
Halloran, “I am a landlord, and extend much
hospitality. Here is my cai’d,”
The late Joe Ronanyne, M.P. for Cork-
city, was a wag. On his death-bed (he died from
the shock following amputation) a friend said to
him, “Joe, I am particularly sorry your leg lias to
he cut off.” “Why arc you particularly sorry?”
inquired the sufferer. “ Because,” said his friend,
“you will never be able to stand for the city
again.” To which Joe, turning in the bed on
which he expired a day or two later, quietly re-
plied, “Sure if I can't stand for the city I can
stump the country.”


Wolfe’s Schnapps—look for £1 orders.
A late Gympie divorce-case proves that
the wages of sin are £lO per month and settle-
ments.
An exhilarating cordial is Wolfe’s Schnapps.
“ Stepniak,” the mysterious Russian
Nihilist, is the man who slew General Mesentzeff
in ’7B.
Wilife's Schnapps, the purest spirit procurable.
[? ]
846 Macquarie-street North, Sydney, June 11, 1890.
My Dear Moorabinda,—
At last Sydney vice-regal reception, when the buffet was
surrounded by a dense crowd of men and women howling
for tea and cake, a girl of about nineteen pushed her way
up to the table and ordered, in a loud voice: “ A glass of
sherry, please.” The presiding Chawles looked at her in a
' reproachful sort of way for a second or so, and then
brought her a glass—of water. And Chawles won, for she
drank it meekly. Should she always be treated thus she
may, in her old age, not resemble the ancient and much-
gilded fashionable who got married for about the fourth
time a few months ago, and returned from the ceremony
in a hansom with her bonnet over her eyes and her arms
round her bridegroom’s collar, and had to be carried into
the house.
According to anticipation the first firing-off of the
quips and cranks of John Lawrence Toole, at Sydney
Royal, on 7th inst., was attended by a smart circle, very
regardlessly gotten-up on the whole, though the Philis-
tines were upon us in muslin and nun’s veiling, as usual,
and there were rather too many black gowns. The vice-
regal toilette, which has always the merit of looking
pretty, was composed of ivory-white brocade, the bodice
having a semi-Medici collar; jupe of fine cream-lace
caught with pearls, sleeves and frontal folds of the lace, a
needed touch of colour being supplied by the cluster of
pale-pink roses and leaves on the left side of the corsage.
Pearls and diamond ornaments, cream-lace fan, the
managerial bouquet of cream and crimson roses and ferns
harmonising well with the-dress. A handsome de Medici
get-up was in grey velvet with Zouave front of silver
passementerie with folds of cream silk on the bodice, grey
suede gloves exactly en suite, and snappy diamonds ;
nice, in a different way, was a “sunflower”
gown in brown and yellow silk with picturesque
puffed sleeves to the elbow and diamond finishing-touches.
The vice-regal party included Colonel Wallington—E.W.’s
“ pa ” (an ascetic-looking old gentleman with a crochet-
hook figure and a misfit collar)—and a glum “distin-
guished personage” who sat next Gov. Carington and
wore a sulky expression and not enough starch in his—
well, shirt-huzzum ; while brother Rupert, in abbreviated
continuations and a halo of brass buttons, reminded me
vaguely of the water-police. As for the show, the dry
fnnniments of “Chawles” and “Spriggins” aren’t bad
when you “ cops the flavior,” as the very worst little boys
say, but why has Mr. Toole surrounded himself with a
crowd whose lingual orifices would make their fortune in
a week if they struck boldly out as letter-receivers or slot-
machines? Irene Vanbrugh is rather a possible ingenue,
though, and looks very nice in her first gown of serpent-
green with accordeon-pleated skirt and Bolero jacket
edged with guipure, sash of primrose silk and Bolero hat
in green velvet and gilt pom-poms.
It’s time the “mother-in-law” pleasantries had a rest.
Only the other day, in Sydney, a father-in-law tried to
blow his matrimonially-acquired son sky-high with dyna-
mite, which is a distinct advance on the effete method of
the mother-in-law, who usually clings to natural weapons,
but gets there all the same. And only recently a woman
clamoured for a rule nisi against an apparently satisfac-
tory Petruchio because “trouble commenced when her
husband’s sister joined their home.” As a social bomb-
shell the sister-in-law has been too long counted out. If
she belongs to the husband she snubs the wife, comes to
stop in an aggressive way'on “George's” unsupported
invitation, criticises the cookery when George is present,
and delights in recalling to his memory, at meal-times,
the domestic and social perfections of the girl she “always
thought he'd marry.” On the other hand, if the sister
belongs to the wife, she comes to stop, too, but comes in a
frivolous sort of spirit with ten trunks and her hair frizzed.
She ogles George as a brother and kisses him good-night
in a way that makes the wife’s flesh creep, besides playing
dreamy waltzes to him while the baby is being put to bed,
and otherwise carrying on in a manner not calculated to
delight a bride who hasn’t time to tong her front hair.
Sydney streets are, so far, comparatively clear of the
hybrid Ep'scopalian “ sisters ” who adopt cloister gear
add cloister “ business,” but who would sue me for
damages if I called them “nuns”—though that is what
they really are, the only difference being in the religious
dogma. I went into a High Church in a neighbouring
colony once just after “ evensong ” and beheld two
gaunt, austere women In long black garments glide re-
verently into the railed-iu altar space, and, after bowing
to the altar, begin furbishing things—trimming the
candles and emptying tire vases with stealthy and nun-
like reverence. “Aren’t they nuns?" some alarmed
Anglican asked the verger in an awful voice, to which ho
replied crisply ; “ Oh, no, nothing of the sort. They ar e
sisters of the church who perform her offices, aiftl have
vowed to remain single !” Which seems to me a distinc-
tion without a difference. The sooner High Church
nudienccs inure themselves to the sight of these sombre
females the better. So many ineffable dignitaries vow the
budding curates to celibacy now-a-days that the
“ sisters ” have become an indispensable institution.
How can the tribe of Spalding darn its own surplice or
exist generally without delicate little feminine “minis-
trations ?”
More than the saqds on the billowy shore—more than
the stars in the night’s deep blue were the audience come
to say an re voir to Mrs. Brown-Potter and Kyrle Bellew,
on (ilh lust., at Sydney Royal. You couldn't have intro-
duced a skeleton long before the first fiddle had squawked
in the orchestra, and the enthusiasm !—well, I had to hold
my ears once. Flowers—including a charming eorbeille
• J white blossoms and parti-colonred streamers with the
names of Mrs. Potter's favourite parts in gold letters upon
them seemed to rain down of themselves, and after each
tu t bulb iin- irdied mimes reeehid an ovation eulni'mat-
ing after the last act in cries for a “ speech ! ” when Mrs-
Potter thanked everybody a thousand thousand times for
her reception in a taking, nervous way, and Bellew re-
marked in effect that this farewell was only the same good
old farewell, and that they would appear again in Sydney
shortly. The d.c. wasn’t exactly high-class, the majority
of gowns appearing to be of the gauze-over-sateen variety
with a villainous contrast in silk gloves and a pearl bead
in the hair. Did I say that the play was “Camille? ”
The revival of “ David Garrick,” on 2nd inst., at Sydney
Royal, under vice-regalpatronage, drew a full d.c. Lady
Carington wore a heliotrope gown ; the front and bodice
of chiffon with silk train, the bodice made with sleeves
puffed on the top and reaching below the elbow and re-
lieved on the corsage with silver passementerie ; mauve
how, diamond aigrette and diamond pins in her beauti-
fully-dressed hair (Lady Carington doesn’t affect the
sausage-roll or balloon coiffures), diamond bangles, dia-
mond and pearl necklace, eream-satin-caped opera-cloak,
white gloves and the managerial bouquet of beautiful cream
and crimson roses. The Baron, whose brow seemed sickbed
o’er with the pale cast of something or other, contented
himself with a scintillating star on his dress coat. Miss
Walenn, in the vice-regal party, wo e a pinkish frock with
a brown velvet sash, crimson plush mantle. Thou
Miss Menk-Meyer was there hi cream satin, a big
bouquet, and a picturesque-looking white fur wrap, with
her sister in black and diamonds; a society woman in a
stage-box was ehromotropish in black and red ; while a
weird youth in a fawn overcoat, an unbuttoned vest, and
a flying white tie, looked like tiie title page of a razzle
dazzle ditty.
I am not overwceningly inquisitive, but I really should
like to know why the five-guinea bouquet of floral fixing
which is to be handed to the star of the show is-before
the rising of the curtain—hawked up and down the back
of the d.c., bumped against the incoming host and
ostentatiously held out of the way to allow persons to get
by. As the flowers are always presented from the stalls,
what business can they possibly have in the circle ?
Despite the oracular predictions that bustles had gone
to their long home, as it were, one occasionally meets them
widening the outlines of people whom you immediately
stigmatise as “barbarians,” while rejoicing to see howbeau-
fully flat you look in the shop window on your right. But
after the fatal plunge, it has transpired that with or with
out a tournure you are equally “in it.” The great Worth
ukases that they are “ permissible,” while another leading
Paris frockist says they aren't. Just a wise little profes-
sional difference to tide over the slack season, 1 suppose.
Quite a gallant array of line feathers was observable at
the second last Menk-Meyer recital, at Sydney Y.M.C.A.,
on 3rd inst. Lady Carington, who attended, was accom-
panied by Miss Walenn and Captain Trench, and wore
cream striped silk bodice and train over a jupe of cream
lace; the bodice with raffled lace front; sleeves to the
elbow, the underpart of net and upper part of puffed
silk ; the bodice cut square in front with semi-Medici
collar and corsage bouquet of cream and crimson roses
and leaves. Diamond and pearl ornaments and white
plume fan. Miss Walenn in black with gauze sleeves and
a crimson plush mautlette. The programme included the
seldom-attempted overture to “ Tannhauser ” (made
familiar through the orchestral concerts), and the Moon-
light Sonata. Miss Menk-Meyer received, besides various
tributory flowerets, an imposing wreath of laurel big
enough to act as a life-preserver. The final concert took
place on sth inst.
The Eastern Suburbs Amateur Athletic Club evidently
combined under a damp star, since rain has sprinkled
their sports for I don’t know how many years running,
and E.S.A.C. meetings and mud are almost synonymous.
Very few ladies attended the Association Ground on 7th
inst., and those who possessed nobby mackintoshes and
ventured had to vegetate on the stand, since promenading
was impossible, unless in bathing-costume and top-boots.
Had it not been so sloppy the meeting would have been a
very big thing indeed.
Have you ever remarked how dire a Nemesis hovers
over the female who doesn't take any trouble with the
grooming of her crown of glory ? When the style is
butter-pat-sleek, her hair gets into unkempt strands and
wild little tails and looks as if it had just been curry-
combed, but, lo ! when the style is Brown-Potterian and
d6gag6 that hapless creature comes out as slick and shiny
as an onion ! Some people have awful luck.
From the S.M. Herald: —
/GENTLEMAN is desirous of corresponding with
YY young lady with view to matrimony ; no objec-
tion to young widow. Fred, G.P.O.
I should say not ! For anybody who simply wishes to
to “ view matrimony ” a nice, young, sympathetic “ re-
lic ” with a nineteen-inch waist and aureolined locks is
just the proper caper.
Yours affectionately,
SAPPHO SMITH.
Mr. C. B. Payne and Mrs. Payne have sent out over a
hundred cards for a ball to be held at their residence,
“Glenburnie,” Waverley, on 19th inst. The engagement
is announced of their eldest daughter, Miss Amy Payne,
to Mr. T. Bettington, of Brindley Park, New England.
The successful ball given by the Mayor and Mayoress of
Strathfield (Mr. and Mrs. Hinchcliffe) at their residence
“ Mount Royal,” on 4th inst., brought out some pretty
gowns—a debutante from Moore Park wearing white silk
with great success. The beautiful frescoes in the ball-
room—on the ceiling, of course—were greatly adniired by
the guests.
Mrs. Louis Aarons’ much-talked-of ball is billed to
happen on the 19th inst. at her residence, Randwick. A
great number of invitations have been issued for what
promises to be a very enjoyable festivity.
Mr. and Mrs. D. C. Bell will shortly issue cards for a
“house-warming” dance to signalise their removal to
Upper Bayswater Road.
The engagement is announced of Mr. “ Tom” Barlow,
of “ Mandeville," Waverley, to Miss Adelaide Brewer,
second daughter of Mr. F. Brewer, ex-editor of the Echo
Last year a Melbourne Club man and his wife received
cards of invitation for the annual Geelong Club ball; this
year, however, the invitation did not include the wife's
name, so the Melbourne man, thinking the omission un-
intentional, wrote to the secretary. No reply being forth-
coming, a telegram was despatched, “ reply paid.” The
answer ran thus; “Stewards have decided that frisky
matrons be excluded.’
History is repeating itself in Victoria. The cheese-
paring economies of Sir Charles Hotham are very visibly
revived under the personal supervision of Lord Hopetoun.
Hotham regaled his guests on colonial swipes in draught,
Hopetoun on watercress, sandwiches and new colonial
shiraz. It was an “ Early Dreary”—no dancing, no sing-
ing, no music to speak of.
The veteran Dr. Wright, of Wynyard-square, is about to
re-marry. The prospective bride is niece of a courtly
legal politician.
The President of the N.S.W. Art Society and Mrs.
Ashton intend issuing invitations for a conversazione, to
be held at the Art Society’s rooms, Pitt-street, on a date
following the Society’s annual exhibition. Miss Naylor
has kindly offered her services as accompanist, and Mr.
Donovan will sing.
“ I have no sympathy with an eight-hour
man with a fourteen-hour wife.”— Henry Ward
Beecher.
Edmund Yates’s estimate of Brigand
Stanley goes as near that of The Bulletin as it
is safe to venture in London.
Dr. J. Davis Thomas, a leading Adelaide
practitioner and a world-wide authority on
hydatids, has, it is feared, utterly broken down.
The Whiggish and anti-National Cardinal
Cullen was born in prison. His mother was the
wife of one of Emmett’s rebels. Cardinal Moran
is bis nephew.
The Cornstalk, we arc reminded, is not
the first colonial weekly of that name. Noble
Wilson, many years manager of the Ballarat
Star, published a Cornstalk in the golden city,
in 1858,
“ Premier-Burnt ” writes pathetically to a
Melbourne paper. He has been robbed of all his
savings, in his old age, and wants to know if the
vultures are still to be gorged with their private
fortunes ?
The S.M. Herald speaks of “ the lady
who writes as Olive Schreiner.” Now, Miss
Olive Schreiner has not adopted that name ; it is
tier’s, and her pen-name is “ Ralph Iron.” Miss
Schreiner’s sister was missionising in Australia
a few years ago, and the Herald ought surely re-
member that.
It was in the Bakery Hill store, belonging
to Shanahan, who subsequently became Sir Patrick
Jennings’s father-in-law, that the “Declaration of
Independence”of the Ballarat “rebels” was drawn
,up immediately before the Eureka outbreak. Its
compiler was Alfred Black, brother of George
Black (editor of the Diggers’ Advocate), whose
name was linked with Lalor’s in the proclamation
offering rewards for their capture.
Francis Habigle, who is at present in
London, has been writing to the Times to prove
that the Protectionist party did not eject the
Chinese from N.S.W., but that Barkes and his
followers rose up and induced the Mongolian to
become scarce. We do not know for certain
whether the following is a true copy of the letter,
but if we received such a document we would feel
inclined to suspect Francis:
the Edditour of the times Sir I send this hopping to
Draw your atention to the fack contrary to what was
menshuned in your paper that dibßs party had been the
party as turned the chinease hout of new south Whales
the same bein incorekt Dibßs party bein all leening to the
Popp of Roam which is iddollotry and worships holy water
as well as images and oughter be Put Down, the
chinease was turned hout by sir henry parKs which is ad-
verse to the Popp and doesnt beleave in protekshun
which is suported by dibbbs who isn’t any good owin to a
tendency to Roam as is destrucktive to our libberties an’
a degradin sooperstishun of which no person in their
senses bein more or less imoral an considered by all rite
minded sittizens as respecks the Queen on whom our
hopps we fiks which I trust is also your opinion espeshly
considerin parnell who oughter be garded against aa he
wantt to bio things Upp i will he Gladd if you will
pubblish this so as it may not be permitted
to make use of the Same contrary to facks as
has bean dun in a maner what makes me Shudder of
which this is to draw your Notice that it may be ekse-
cuted with despaoh as otherwise is give rise to Callamity
the persons conserned bein desperit and capable of Dany-
mite or other eggsplosive substanse. Also i may menshun
that i was there helpin sir henry parks when the chinease
was drove Hout wich is a people as I had alvvayz oposed
holdin that they was a Cuss an beleaved in joss an other
praktices. which is abided to in the sKriptur when it sez
as it is eusiear for a camel to enter china than for a man
to swalow a package of needles. Pleese be verry carefull
as this is spelt eorekt in your paper as otherwise mite be
took advantage of by the Popp of Roam, him bein
rekognised as a person of lo instinkts an liabel to bust
Hout which I hopp will be supressed otherwise no Pro-
destant can tel when he’ll go to bed an get up ded in the
morning throogh bein Shot At from behind a Hedge.
Hen Bee—freetrad is reggarded in New south Whales as
a glorious hinstitushun an is proggressin wisably an the
proteckshunist party Hout there aint worth anythin
parks hev got his Eye on them
Pea Hess - dont pubblish hanythink dilßs sends you
“Annie Laurie,” special correspondent of
the S.F. Examiner, thus discourses about the
lepers of Molokai: —
The Hawaiians are all easy going, pleasure-loving people,
with little thought for the future, and they seem affected
with a strange apathy in regard to the horrible sickness
which is such a scourge in their beautiful country. They
are not at all afraid of it. They will hide a leper from
physicians, live with him, eat from the same dish with
him, without the slightest fear. They do not seem at all
repulsed by the most disgusting forms of the disease. The
lepers at Molokai are as happy to all outward appearances
as the healthiest people that exist. They fall in love and
marry in the most every-day manner in the world, and a
christening is a matter of frequent occurrence there. We
saw dozens of round-limbed babies borne in the arms of
mothers whose every feature bore evidence of their hor-
rible affliction. It is a vexed question whether or not
leprosy is hereditary, though most doctors are firmly con-
vinced that it is. There is no possible way of deciding
the question. The disease is so long in developing
that there is no certainty as to contraction whatever.
Although it has been the study of savants for ages, no
wise doctor has ever been able to “ pluck the heart out of
its mystery.” “ The more I see of it, the less I know of
it,” said a prominent physician who has made it a life
study. “ Sometimes it looks as if it were simply a matter
of heredity. Again, it seems as if contagion were the only
means of contracting it. The truth is, the only thing I
have learned in all these years is that I don’t know any-
thing about it.” The facts which come to light at Molokai
are strangely puzzling. I saw a man there who came to
the village with his wife. She was a leper, but he was
perfectly sound. They lived together for several years,
and she died of the disease. Soon after he married again—
another leprous woman. That was ten years ago. She is
dying now, but he is as well as ever. There are other cases
there, who believ e that they contracted leprosy by one
touch of a diseased person. There are in the settlement
230 kokoas or sound persons, who have come as helpers to
their afflicted relatives and friends. So far from dreading
the leprosy, some of them actually court the living death,
preferring a life of idleness and disease to one of industry
and health. They fare much better there than they
would outside, and they are content to live amid the
loathsome pestilence In luxurious ease, as it seems to
them. At every examination day some of the kokoas are
pronounced lepers. They have caught the disease. They
do not bewail their fate. On the contrary, many of them
rejoice greatly. They are glad that they are now in no
danger of being forced back into the bustling world to
earn their own living. They have lived so long in the
tainted atmosphere that they regard health as an afflic-
tion which makes it necessary for a man to work.
It is a place where the beggar may ride whenever he
chooses to exert himself enough to catch a steed, for
there are no less than 800 horses in the settlement, all at
the disposal of the lepers. Instead of raw fish and poi
they are furnished with four pounds of solid food a day.
In place of a miserable grass hut they can lodge like kings
under a whole roof. Why should they leave the land of
Sweet-do-nothingness for a workaday world ? So there
they live, eating, drinking, and making merry, marrying
and giving in marriage, with apparently no thought of
the hideous grave that yawns before them. They deck
themselves in gay colours and wreath their horrible,
tottering forms in bright garlands. The vanity
which is one of the most prominent features of the
Hawaiian never dies. I saw an old woman, who reminded
me of the picture of Death, grinning under the coquettish
cap of a masquerade dress. She wore a brilliant gown of
flashing yellow ; a wreath of peacock feathers adorned her
shoulders, and peering from under the gaudy figured ker-
chief was a face to give one shuddering dreams. The
horrible mockery of it all never seems to strike them.
They live so near to death that the grim old tyrant has
lost his terrors for them, and one of the priests told me he
had often and often seen a chattering group sitting and
eating poi on the codin of an old friend, without a thought
of I lie festering mass within.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR, COMING WEEK.
Theatric Royal J. L. Toole.
Her Majesty's... “ After Dark.”
Criterion “The Parvenu.”
Darlinghurst Skating Rink.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Opera House “Boccaccio.”
Theatre Royal Charles Warner Farewells
Alexandra "Sweet Lavender.”
New Bijou “ Josephs Sweetheart.”
Princess’s “Little Lord Fauntleroy.”
Victoria Hall The U.S. Minstrels.
Town Hali Halle-Noruda Concerts.
Waxworks Cecil Forrester, &c.
The most remarkable feature of “ The
Parvenu,” at Sydney Criterion, is the scenery anti
general staging of No Man’s Land,” the debate-
able ground wherein the whole story is told. The
back-cloth, a woodland and river scene, painted
by Messrs, Spong and Churchward, is an almost
faultless piece of work, and in the foreground,
with its sturdy oaks, grassy knolls, wild flowers,
ferns and fallen leaves, a realism has been attained
by the attention given to the slightest detail that
would be impossible did the action require a
change of scene. It is some years since Godfrey’s
comedy was produced in Sydney, and the some-
what impossible story has now all the freshness of
a new production. Of course the company, one
and all, received an ovation on their return to the
scene of their former triumphs, an ovation that, in
the case of Anson, has been of nightly occurrence.
George W., as Edward Ledger, the parvenu, has a
big snow and all the sympathy of the audience
throughout. His performance cannot be too
highly praised, and the actor is perhaps even
more successful when pathetic than in mirth-
pruvoking moments. Occasionally through
iidelity to the character he provoked a heedless
laugh and spoiled a pathetic speech delivered in
full round tones by the dropping of an “ H ” or
the mispronunciation of a word—thus, like a true
artist, sacrificing a point for the sake of ensemble .
Claude Glynne, the strolling artist, is very well
played by Percy Lyndal ; the Sir Fulke Petti-
grew of G. L. Gordon is a faithful albeit a colour-
less picture of the selfish, unprincipled, broken-
down roue, and as Charles Tracey, Dion Boucicault
is without spot or wrinkle. The Lady Pettigrew
of Mrs. T. Bolton is a stately, well-gowned, and
unblushing personage, who, although her lines
are at times impossibly vulgar, yet manages
to preserve her dignity throughout. The easily-
won, spiritless Gwendolen is well sustained by
Emma Temple, whose best show and best per-
formance is when she refuses the parvenu ; and
Pattie Browne, who has lately had a big “ ad.”
in Melbourne, rattles through a little part with
her usual ease and brightness. We fear “The
Parvenu,” well played and staged though it be,
has not enough action and life in it to ensure a
long run ; a Robertsonian comedy is in active pre-
paration.
* * * *
Like other distinguished visitors, John L.
Toole, on his arrival in Sydney, was accorded a
reception by Mayor Burdekin at the Town-hall,
where he was greeted by a crowd of theatrical
people, pressmen, lawyers and a host of nonde-
scripts, chiefly aldermen, when a great number of
champagne bottles and many excessively mouldy
chestnuts were cracked. The most noticeable
thing about this reception was the gloom that
settled on the great little comedian’s countenance
as soon as the first ancient and feeble joke Salo-
monsian banged like an elderly egg about his
accustomed ears.
* * *
When, as “Chawles,” Mr. Toole made his
first appearance to a Sydney audience, he received
a very hearty welcome—one that lasted exactly
forty-seven seconds, so we were informed by a
very small gentleman with a very large stop-
watch, who also volunteered the information that
at Teddy Royce’s Gaiety benefit, the applause
was spread out over a minute and a-quarter.
The visitor’s ears were also dinned with much
popular clamour at the close of each act and on
the fall of the curtain. This excitement will
scarcely last; the reception was merely a kindly
greeting, by no means a promise of untiring sup-
port. Mr. Toole has much against him; he has long
wandered down the weary vale of years bearing
heavy burdens, he is, on the whole, very poorly
supported, has a personality that cannot be dis-
guised, while, as he has confessed, he has against
him a younger and more versatile actor, one who
can lay aside his own personality and assume that
of the character he is for the time assuming.
Toole is a kindly and conscientious actor
whose humour is mellow and cleanly, and
who is perhaps able to estimate .at its
true value the fulsome slobber showered on him
by a contemporary who states that the comedian
“never comes out of the picture, never hankers
after effect,” doesnotgo “point-making,” and then,
contradictorily, that “ following the traditions
of the school to which he belongs, he almost in-
variably plays with his face to the audience, and
as near to the footlights as possible.” Henry
Westland, Toole’s stage-manager, plays Brabazon
Yandaleur to his Chawles, and Major Rattan to
his Spriggins with great acceptation, and C. M.
Lowne, struggling manfully with a stout, woolly
voice and large boots, is less wearisome as the
inflammable Dubois than the disinherited Percival.
Of the other performers Eliza Johnstone and Mr.
Shelton are equal to their opportunities. The
“ Don” will be produced on Saturday evening.
* * * *
Most of the villainies against which the
voice of the about-to-elope Sunday-school teacher
has been raised in the wilderness, since the day
when Pharoah put his backup in opposition to
outside interference, are reproduced in that ancient
cataclysm of iniquity, “After Dark,” as presented
at Her Majesty’s to packed houses, bar some
vacant chairs in the dress-circle. For it is a drama
that has but slight grip on the sensibilities of the
d.c. by reason that its occupants have no know-
ledge of the intricacies of vice outside some three
or four of the Commandments which were never
intended as a curb on the immeasurably better
classes. Old Tom fits William Rignold like a
glove, and all the leading characters in the hoary
old horror strive to appear contented with their
lot, being supported in the effort by the fervent
appreciation of virtuous aphorisms and objections
to concrete wickedness which well up and slop
over in patches from different parts of the house.
The Music-hall scene introduces W. B. Warner
resting on the laurels of “ Mary’s Little Lamb, ”
“ His Funeral’s To-morrow,” and some other anti-
quities on which his professional reputation was
founded when Australia was young and loyal
colonists bdred their heads to “ God Save
the Queen,” and prayed for Tummy, and all
the rest of the royal brood as provided for in
the Litany. , The combined intelligences of the
audience reel as one gigantic brain when the night
express comes tearing along the underground rail-
way ; blanched faces and small squeals of terror
attest the realism of Gordon Chvunloy’s narrow


A GHOST
is not a photograph, nor a photo, a ghost-—but a good photo, is a
true reflection of the original. For high-art photos, go to the
London Palace of Art, 10 Park-street, Sydney. Country photographers’ work from developemen
to completion executed at lowest prices. Bromides a speciality, Staff of artists kept for working up
escape, the train gets safely out of sight without
breaking a cross-bar, and the mental tension of the
audience is relaxed by the opportunity for another
drink. The finale, which rewards virtue and puts
vice in handcuffs, gets home every night, and tends
to lighten the duties of the city police. The smile
of Manager Macdonald is a feature of the estab-
lishment, and is on view nearly all day as well as
“ After Dark.”
* * *- *
Another of Frank Harvey’s dramatic
dirges was revived at the Gaiety Theatre last
Saturday evening under the name of “A Ring of
Iron.” ft lacks the true dramatic ring, but goes
down immensely with the pitites. We would
repeat endless Harvey Maries if this dramaturge
would cease from troubling with his bathetic
screeds, which are originally sprung upon the
provincial Britisher. We remember his “Wages
of Sin,” “The Workman,” &0., with horror, and
would now inquire why peaceful Australians
should be bored by these dramatic enormities.
The talented “push” engaged in the present re-
presentation do their level best to vitalize it with
something like animation. Alice Deonvyu gets
off a lot of regurgitating gush to the delight
of the easily pleased auditor, and Mr. W. E.
Baker, whose voice has grown more resonant,
shows how easy it is for a man to read newspaper
paragraphs by moonlight in the Australian bush.
Walter Howe props up a ricketty part as best he
can, and Harry Leston is responsible for a large
amount of laughter. Sophie Harris would do
well to eschew the inane habit of giggling,
and Carrie George, an actress of worth and
experience, as Nurse Bland, fills all require-
ments. By the way, why do stage-miners takeoff
their hats and turn around on hearing bad news ?
Miners we have met under similar circumstances
ejaculated several yards of cuss-words and then
expectorated freely. We suppose Harvey’s dramas
provoke unnatural acting, and we are sure that
Harvey’s source of inspiration is the slavey’s
delight, tiie Bonding Jernel.
* * « -;if
At Bondi Aquarium William Warner’s
benefit, postponed on account of rain, takes place
on Saturday. Despite the threatening weather
there was a good attendance at the Sunday con-
cert, however, and the silly Sunday-closing act
will be successfully dodged by Alf. Wvburd until
a much-needed alteration is made.
** * *
Another skating handicap at the Darling-
hurst Skating Rink has been won by C. Garland,
this time from scratch. Miss Mabel Sylvester,
the well-known and graceful lady-skater, has been
giving skating exhibitions during the week, and a
highly successful juvenile carnival took place last
Wednesday.
*
An attempt to renew the “Fauntleroy
boom ” at Melbourne Princess’, on Saturday, re-
sulted in a moderately large audience discovering
that the superficial charm of former representa-
tions has deteriorated into dry-hash. The world
grows wiser even in a few months, and whereas
Melbourne used to pipe its purblind eye when the
little lordship waggled her bounteous bustle at a
coronetted incubus purporting to be the delusive
kid’s grandpa, and otherwise betrayed her sex by
gushing over “ Dearest ’’—whereas the Smellful
City formerly swallowed this injurious taffy with
avidity, it would now appear that the tide of sym-
pathy flows towards Minna, an expansive visita-
tion hitherto received with a high-toned snort.
There were many present on Saturday who would
have given an extra shilling to see the cheery,
rotund female pulverise the venerable peer with
her parasol, and ultimately get a-top of the hollow
situation and squash it flat. She has become a
prime favourite, has Mrs. Minna. The more one
looks at her the more it becomes apparent
that hereditary legislation requires to be bol-
stered up with bouncing girls of her stamp.
She looms a lot larger than the traditional Lady
Clara Yere de Vere, and if that haughty daughter
of a hundred earls were to attempt to slew Minna
with her noble birth she would find herself shoved
over in the first round. When Dorincourt at-
tempted to mortify the fine, full-blooded whirl-
wind by saying she was another instance of his
son’s degraded habits and customs, it was interest-
ing to note how half the congregation offered up a
silent prayer that Minna would really give the
well-bred fossil beans, instead of merely flourish-
ing her gingham before his ancestral boko. Yes,
Melbourne has at last gi'asped the great physical
fact that Minna is 14 stone of pure joy, by whom
any earl’s son would naturally feel proud to be
bashed about. Therefore the original motive of
“ Little Lord Fauntleroy ” has withered at its
weak, wishy-washy stalk, and nothing short of a
general revolution of the denouement will satisfy
an intelligent democracy.
* * *
It was Olive Berkley’s turn to compress
herself into knickers on Saturday, and the im-
pression left upon the male mind by her rather
careless performance was that his lordship will be
an ample sort of maiden to go star-gazing with in
five years’ time. Venerable Higgins has developed
a tendency to over-act the worm since he last
snivelled in the same theatre, and the rest of the
people point an abhorrent moral with as much
ability as marked their unwholesome effect in days
of yore. “Fauntleroy ”is fated to last for a fort-
night, after which the show returns to America,
making room for the fair Brown-Potter, as Juliet.
Which somehow reminds us that Essie Jenyns’
baby is such a big girl.
** * *
At the Bijou entrance on Saturday night
somebody had the satisfaction of hanging up a
study in black and white, entitled, “ House full.”
Nevertheless it is as difficult to see where the
evident success of “ Joseph’s Sweetheart ” comes
in, as to understand why anybody should want to
“ summon up that time long past ” {vide prologue)
when the ideal man was a tame flunkey, and a
bloated aristocracy had nothing better to do than
in chivying his unsubstantial bit of muslin. The
ghastly absurdity of Joseph (a character intended
as a satire upon the sickly sentiment of one
Richardson) reflects ridicule upon the luscious
volcano, Lady Booby, who can adore such an
object, likewise upon the amorous “declivities”
of Mrs. Slipslop, and even upon Parson Adams’
paternal affection. Which three characters, to-
gether with some elegant scenery, absorb all that
there is of human interest in a play which becomes
occasionally as improper as an evening newspaper.
There's whore the generous patronage must come in.
** * m
“ Silver King,” at Melbourne Royal, is
reducing a used-up populace to the last stage of
tiredness. Comparing the play with that admir-
able creature, the camel, it may be said that
Charles Warner is the final fatal straw heaped
upon that camel’s back, It can scarcely hump
along the monotonous versatility of Charles for
another week, so he might do worse than make a
dignified exit from Australia in the character of
Hamlet. Take him for all in all, Warner is a fine
out of a melancholy Dane, and when he puts a
double snaffle on his fiery vigour, and doesn’t elabo-
rate the mannerisms which custom has staled sa
infernally, he deserves well of his fellow man.
*■ * * *
“ Private Secretary ” rattles away at the
Alexandra for but two more nights, and on Satur-
day they revive tender recollections of “ Sweefc
Lavender,” the masterpiece of a master play-
wright. “ Paul Jones.” too, is finishing a week’s,
run at the Opera House amidst great demonstra-
tions of crowded sorrow. “Boccaccio” breaks,
out in all its alleged splendour and subtle perfec-
tion of detail on Saturday night. Snazelle, Gour-
lay, Hodson, and others of the present company
are to be reinforced by new vocal talent, while the.
prima-donnashipis divided betweenfNellie Stewart,
and the majestic Burton—one angel down, t’other
come up. Consequently, the leading part will be
a double-voiced affair, alternating between soprano,
and contralto, whereby everybody will find them-
selves going twice over to a show which cannot
last longer than three weeks.
* * m
Harry Rickards is making heroic efforts
to hold his own at St. George’s Hall. The Vic-
toria Hall niggers are likewise blacking up to some
purpose. Cecil Forrester and some Spanish man-
doliners are a steady attraction at the Waxworks;
the Battle of Waterloo is being helped along its
gory way by thunderstorms, and business at the
Aquarium is only “ fishy ” in the natural accepta-
tion of that term.
* ffc * *
Likewise the Halle-Neruda concerts at
the Town Hall continue to delight all such as
find comfort in hunting for a minute needle of
tune in a big bundle of dry hay, besides proving
eminently soothing to the high-class people, who.
go there to express satisfaction at the end of long,
unintelligible numbers, and who come away with
much the same pleasure as one feels when the den-
tist has done his work, and the toothache has been
removed. Charles Turner and Miss Annis Mon-
tague sing with welcome sweetness at these con-
certs, and the omission of their names from Age
notices is tolerably convincing proof that “musical
culchaw,” petty affectation, and insufferable prig-
gishness go hand in hand. A notice which lauded
the singers and forgot to include a yard of gush
about the sonatas would exactly meet the senti-
ment of three-fourths of the Town Hall audiences,
said three-fourths being the people who pay to
go in.
* * * *■
At the Adelaide Royal, Wybert Reeve*
supported by Edith Blande and the greater por-
tion of Bland Holt's late company, has not been
attracting large audiences, although the represen-
tations of “Love or Money” and “ The Dead
Shot ” have been meritorious. ‘ * After Dark ”is to
staged, with all the scenery and effects used by
Charles Warner at the Melbourne Royal, and
Wybert Reeve in Warner’s part. The drama
should have a good run. Harmston’s circus is
still drawing crowds. Hiscocks and Clark open
soon in Garner’s Theatre. The Ideal Company
and the Harveys from India are their attractions.
* -*- * *
Miss Marian Burton, who is now figuring
so magnificently in ‘ ‘ Paul Jones ” at Melbourne
Opera House, is said to have begun life at that
theatre as a chorus-singer under William Saurin
Lyster. Thisjwas'some years ago, and long before
her marriage or her connection with the Carl Rosa
Opera Co. Collingwood Flat has thus given us
two grand singers, viz., Mrs. Armstrong and
Marian Burton.
** & *
The extravagance of the amateur musician
is generally confined to emotions and divine
frenzy and such intangible matters, but he does
occasionally make an ass of himself in hard cash.
We hear of one of these creatures (a man who
takes his violin to bed with him after giving the
instrument of torture an oatmeal bath.—that kind
of man) rushing straight from Melbourne Town
Hall to a certain quiet bar-parlor, and there, with
the light of lunacy in his eye and the last linger-
ing strum of a dyspeptic sonata ringing in his ear,
offering to shout for the crowd on condition that
they would drink the health of Madame Neruda.
They did drink it. They were not proud, and if
the fiddle-worshipper had asked them to drink the
health of the devil they would have poured it
down their throttle on the same terms. But when
the enthusiast had paid for 12 whiskies he at-
tempted to extort from the company a promise
that they would go to hear Madame Neruda next
night. Whereupon they rose in a body and told
him that if he would stand tickets for ’Arry
Rickards they were right on the job, but other-
wise the subject was too painful for further dis-
cussion.
At Poverty Point.
Henry Irving “hopes to visit Australia during next
English winter season.” Once hear Irving recite “Eugene
Aram’s Dream,” and you are for ever and ever his humble
and obedient slave.
Over £lOO worth of counterfeit coin was rung in on
Buffalo Bill’s money-takers at Naples. Probably “Bill”
passed it on to the Pope.
A nasty ’Frisco man says that Patti’s voice is going,
that her mouth is hard and set, and that she is, although
not heavy in the foot, round in the shoulders, and wrinkly
about the waist; yet, (here he tries to conciliate) she still
is pretty as a picture, free from wrinkles and not at all
like a woman of forty-nine years.
At Sydney Opera House the mammoth caves of
Kentucky are now on view ; i.e., Charles B. Hicks’ Coon
Minstrels are there harmoniously distending their com-
modious oral orifices nightly. The other chief features of
the performance are the banjoing of Hosea Easton, the
comicalities of Irving Sayles and the profound notes of
Brudder Johnson which threaten to disturb the beer in
the cellar over the way. Hicks, who won so much money
on the races that the side walk “ don’t fit him any longah,”
put up “Uncle Tom’s Cabin” on Saturday in gorgeous
style.
Edward Lloyd refused an offer of £2OO to sing at the
Montreal reception of the Governor-General.
The cable about the likelihood of Irving coming to
Australia is the result of J. C. Williamson sounding him.
James Cassius is in London looking out for good things,
but not another London Dramatic Company, not just yet.
In most of the Spanish theatres the people are all
cleared out after each act, and you pay again, but the
usual thing is to play four one-act pieces in the evening.
People generally don’t care to stay more than an hour at
a time.
Athena Cladius- >rhat a name! —has blossomed from
humble utility to leading lady, and we do believe she
wouldn’t have got on so well as Smith, Brown, Jones, or
Robinson.
Rockhampton lately built a theatre ; yet the only
amusement it can afford are a needle-threading contest
and a pig-faced boy.
Detailed notices are to hand of Cowen’s Opera Thor-
grim— “ a success of esteem.”
Melbourne Daily Telegraph roots and sniffs out a hor-
rible and unparalleled crime—The “ Paul Jones ” Opera
Co. lately went to Beauman’s for a Sunday picnic.
John Hennings is well at work again painting for Mel-
bourne Royal.
II a lib and Madame Neruda play everything without any
music before them.
Harry Britton writes that Toole drew crowded houses
the first two weeks in Melbourne, good ones the second
two, and the last two bad. Therefore, Williamson and
Garner are losers. Toole has his certainty.
Effie Liston, of Toole’s Co., is widow of that promising
and lamented young actor, B. D. Ward, to whom Edin-
burgh was fatal.
Irving has two remarkable veterans in the cast of “ the
Bride of Lammermoor,” Walter Lacy, aged 81, and Howe,
aged 78.
Potter and Bellew open at the Melbourne Princess’s in
“Romeo and Juliet,” with every prospect financially, in
public goodwill. They are about the only living pair who
can act “ Romeo and Juliet ” decently, irving and Terry
are too clammy.
It is said that George Darrell has joined W. and G. as
business manager.
William Rignold opens in “ Now-a-Days ” at Melbourne
Opera House on July sth.
“There are probably few professions which can show
so large a proportion of cases of longevity, many of them
reaching to extreme old age, as the histronic profession
does.” What circumlocution ! Why didn’t he simply
say: “Those who think professional's are short-lived are
respectfully referred to the second row of any chorus.”
Westland Marston writes that G. V. Brooke was a
singularly dull man off the stage, and he had great diffi-
culty to make Brooke understand his play of “Philip of
France,” in which Brooke acted at the London Olympic
with Helen Faucit. We have heard Melbourne men, who
knew Bropke intimately, remark the same thing, showing
that he was an untaught genius. Marston says he never
afterwards acted Othello with such force and fire as on his
first night at the London Olympic, after which Coppin
christened his Iron Pot.
Good Mrs. Avins, the mother of the Melbourne stage, is
74, with 50 years spent in Melbourne. She was acting at
the old Queen’s all through the forties, and remembers all
the casts in the plays in which Coppin, Morton King,
Nesbitt, Rogers, Hydes, Charley Young, Mesdames
Coppin, Waller, Cameron, Young, Rogers, Thomson, and
Arabin figured.
Toole must have acted 600 parts in his career. At one
time the public always called for his Upton Spout, in the
“ Pretty Horsebreaker.” Then there have been his legion
of burlesques, ending with such as Stage Dora, Paw
Claudian, and his Mephistopheles, after friend Irving. He
was the original Toupee, at the Adelphi, in the “Dead
Heart,” with Ben Webster.
Jeffreys Lewis has been playing Mrs. Sheppard, in
“Jack Sheppard,” at New York Bijou.
A Mr. Baumann has entered an application for divorce
from his wife, the co-respondent being the shade of the
late Phil. Beck. Justice Hood said he feared that under
the peculiar circumstances he had no jurisdiction, and
dismissed the application.
No one seems to have noticed Kyrle Bellew’s inability
to pronounce certain words. With him, “ punch ” is
“ punse,” and “shoes ” becomes “ soose.”
The Alien Law of the United States reduces theatrical
engagements contracted with actors in other countries to
mere matters of good faith on both sides.
“ La Tosculation,” when freely translated, may be inter-
preted as the art of kissing as practised by Mrs. Brown-
Potter.
Victorien Sardou, whose palace at Nice is said to have
cost £40,000, starved for six weary years in a garret. He
and Bernhardt are always quarrelling, but he writes most
of her plays, nevertheless.
Good, old “ After Dark ” has, within the last fortnight,
been produced in Melbourne, Sydney and Adelaide.
Annette Ivanova will make a reappearance in the ranks
of comic-opera as Fiametta, her old part, in the Nellie
Stewart revival of “Boccaccio.”
The Brnoy Opera Co. have done good “ biz ” in Brisbane
It is said that they disband there.
Eleanor Carey was lately playing the lead with James
O’Neill in the “ Dead Heart,” at Chicago.
Fred Norton, who came here as lecturer to the Midgets,
and is coaching the Sydney University Dramatic Club,
gave a highly enjoyable smoke-concert at Beach’s hotel
the other evening, at which a large number of “ pros.”
and pressmen were present. Mr. Norton, once well-known
in management in the Midlands circuit, and at one time
a member of Toole’s Co., has dreams of giving these con-
certs periodically.
William Abbott has turned the old Oddfellows’ Hall in
Launceston into a pretty little theatre, which he styles the
Bijou. It was opened by the Cogills and S'ade Murray,
who are doing big business. They will be succeeded by
Professor Perron, the magician, and he will be followed by
Harry Rickards.
A new music-hall has been opened in Hobart.
Melbourne Standard puts a tremendous helping of jam
on clever Flora Graupner’s little plate.
A travelling showman’s bear, a huge animal, recently
escaped and entered a Barnes chapel just as the parson
gave out the text: “Be not afraid.” A stampede ensued.
The revival of poor Wallace’s “ Lurline ” at Drury Lane
by the Carl Rosa Company brings some reminiscences to
the pen’s point. Wallace received the gorgeous sum of
10s. for this opera, which sum he immediately handed to
the wife of an injured stage-carpenter. A fac simile of
the assignment is in the British Museum, and the younger
Wallace asserts that Pyne and Harrison made £70,000 out
of the first production of “ Lurline,” and that Cramer and
Beale’s profits on the music-sales incited them to pension
Fitzball, the librettist, for life. But no one did much for
the poor composer.
Charles Clarke, not being a nigger-show, or a circus, o r
a free lunch, is lecturing to thin houses in Tasmania.
Miln is certain of a great public welcome when he re"
appears in Melbourne, for there is profound latent sym-
pathy with him. Either the Royal or the Opera House
will be opened to him. The Princess programme is for
Potter and Bellew to be followed by Gilbert and Sullivan’s
“ Gondoliers,” which will be the big thing of the year, and
will, probably, be stage-managed by Henry Braoy.
Patti doesn’t believe in washing, though she has puffed
a certain soap so deliberately that some one has styled
her the great “ soaprano.”
Sydney Star “ ad.”—
A YOUNG Girl wishes to correspond with respect-
*• able Irishman Singer. None but Irish need
apply. Annie, Burwood Post-office.
Now then, Romeo Murphy, where art thou?
Speaking at a dinner given to him by his Johannesburg
admirers, Lionel Brough said he had lost his health and
all his money in South Africa, and would soon leave it,
never to return.
An actor, who had vigorously applauded an infant
phenomenon for playing one of Beethoven’s longest
symphonies at the house of a “Mrs. Leo Hunter,” sat
altogether silent when the five-year old, thereby en-
couraged, had repeated the entire performance. Taken
to task, thereupon, by “ Mrs. Leo,” he remarked—" Well,
you see, the clever little darling is not nearly so young
now as when she played that endless symphony the first
time.”
The committee of Tatura (Vic.) Mechanics’
Institute have decided not to allow the Sydney
.Bulletin on the reading-room table on the ground
that it is a Republican paper. The Bulletin
smiles. It will live to see the Tatura Mechanics
Institute committee going hat-in-hand for funds to
a Republican Government.
Mr. Williams, M.L.A., of Victoria, states
that he has explored the Education Department
of that colony, and found it full of rottenness and
corruption and dead men’s bones and the thin
ghosts of disembodied preachers. There is some
slight consolation in this, for it goes to prove that
the preacher does actually die sooner or later.
I rom the results of our own observations we
feared that he was immortal, and that the original
seed preacher of the earth was still loose some-
where on its surface.
The genial and good-hearted William
Ffrench MacDermott, a member of the Sydney
firm of MacDermott, Loughnan and Scarr, who
died the other day after four weeks’ illness from
congestion of the lungs and failure of the heart
supervening on an attack of influenza, will be long
and sincerely regretted by all who knew him. He
was buried on Thursday, June 5, in Waverley
Cemetery, on which date the doors of the Sydney
Stock Exchange, of which institution he was one
of the founders, were closed out of respect to his
memory.
A spirited farce was enacted in the Vic-
torian Assembly just before “ Captain” Charlie
Taylor’s want-of-confidence motion was chawed up
by the Gillies mob. James Munro, in the bitter-
ness of spirit at finding - his best hopes ignomini-
ously flummoxed, stated that one honorable mem-
ber hacl confessed (in the Opposition room) that he
was going over to the Government because his
district was shrieking for a railway-line as soon as
possible, and, consequently, he couldn’t vote in a
way calculated to delay the filling of that long-felt
want. Everybody outside the House knew that
the Government had purchased a renewal of life
with this same Railway Bill, and yet the miserable
persons sitting on the benches behind them pro-
tested against Munro’s blunt statement. They
said he ought to be ashamed of himself for letting
such a discreditable cat out of the bag. Then the
particular member referred to came in and pro-
tested that Munro was a liar, whereupon the
Speaker pointed out that the honorable member
couldn’t be a liar in a Parliamentary sense, and
the incident terminated by Munro accepting the
other man’s denial and thereby calling himself a
liar. After which the whole House looked ex-
tremely virtuous, and the humbug proceeded.
The deceased Mr. Crouch, ex-sheriff of Tas-
mania, bore a hand at something like 400 executions
in the course of his career, and left an honoured
name behind him as a public servant who had
toiled manfully in the obliteration of his species.
He spent many years in the service of his country,
till at last old age came upon him and he retired
from his sphere of active usefulness, and sat down
to reflect upon the days of his joyous youth when
he was wont to rise and superintend the smother-
ing of six or eight fellow creatures before break-
fast, and go home when they were all satisfactorily
choked with a pleasant consciousness that perse-
verance and industry were the sure roads to happi-
ness. No one ever accused him of having allowed
the strangulation to get into arrears, and whatever
the rush of business might be he was always care-
ful that each subject was carefully and efficiently
jerked across the Jordan, in a manner that was
calculated to give every satisfaction to the deceased
and his weeping relatives. Eew things are moiv
annoying to a sheriff or other agent of public
suffocation than to meet an executed person
who has been insufficiently banged and has
afterwards come out from underneath his
tombstone, and gone away into private life,
but the lamented Tasmanian officer was never
harassed in this way by any corpse under his
supervision, and the circumstance reflects credit
alike on the system and its living representative.
Many modes of execution still prevalent in
foreign countries only take a long shot at the
offender, but it is the blessed privilege of the
British criminal to be brought down at the very
first attempt. In Germany, even at the present
day, the defendant is pursued by a large, excited
person with a rusty axe who gradually incapaci-
tates him by removing his head, but if the second
party to the transaction keeps in rapid motion
during the ceremony it sometimes happens that
considerable pieces of him are knocked off in the
struggle, and he reaches the Shining River in a
very exhausted and incomplete condition. In
China, on the other hand, it is frequently the
custom to hang up the person objected to in a
large cage at the gates of the city, and leave him
there till he departs to look for victuals in a
brighter sphere, but under the system he
generally sits up and offers uncalled-for ob-
servations about the Government for eight
days before the execution is complete, and when a
public functionary goes by the language of the
criminal is something awful in its offensiveness.
The Tartars, who were an intelligent and energetic
race, often cooked an offender in a large cauldron,
but on one occasion, by some mistake, the water
was allowed to go off the boil, and when the Chief
Justice took the lid off with a view to issuing a
certificate of death, the inhabitant came out with
a shriek and fled. Another device, at one time
much esteemed, was that of the Persians, who
occasionally flayed an assassin or other public
nuisance, and then handed him back his skin, that
he might view it from a purely extraneous stand-
point ; but when a royal personage was annoyed
one day by the irruption of a clamorous stranger
who carried his cuticle in a hat-box and wanted to
assassinate him, the sch<|iie also fell into disuse.
But the grand old British gallows still holds its
own, and even when the rope breaks two or three
times, and drops the defendant on the floor, the
ancient institution generally comes out uppermost
in the end. And to the credit of the deceased ex-
sheriff, he seems always to have remembered that
his duty was to choke off the criminal and not to
kill him gradually by dropping him on a stone
pavement with the end of a broken rope round His
neck until he died by a slow process of concussion.
By unobtrusive vigour and strict attention to
strangulation, he thus succeeded in filling in
orders for as many as twelve corpses in one day.
and when wo recollect that, under the clumsy and
ineffective system occasionally adopted in Eng-
landj it would have been necessary for the noose
to give way and let the patient down in a heap,
probably as much as 120 times before the whole
crowd would have been banged and bruised and
scratched and concussed into a loftier sphere, it
will readily be seen that his talented supervision
saved the country much wear and tear of plant
and hanging material generally. Also ho was a
genial and intelligent gentleman who was punctual
with his remains under all circumstances, and his
hiss has cast a gloom even over that section of
society which has no expectation of being hanged,
and which consequently views his career with an
unbiassed eye apart from all considerations of
personal interest.
After attending one of Toole’s numerous
receptions or a municipal pic-nic, the only safe
reviver is Marshall’s Tonic Nervine.
The Kiama Ghost party have managed it
very cleverly. They repeal the N.S.W. Party Pro-
cessions Act and then proceed to import from
Ulster the prophets of the new holy war.
Mr John Farrell, whose stirring verse is
familiar to all readers of the Bulletin, and who
began his literary career on this journal, has been
selected (out of about eighty candidates for the
position) as editor of Sydney Daily Telegraph.
His lieutenant will be Mr. Thomas Courtney,
lately of the Star, and writer of the “Notes in
Parliament ” which formerly appeared in the D.T


fI,SAUNDERS
Watches anil Jewellery are like good wives—they are
worth having.
Send for Illustrated Price List. Post Free.
813 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
(Nearly opposite Hailway Station).
Factories: Livi .it root, and London, England.
£2 10s. English Lever, Tw o Years’Guaranteed.
£3 10s. English Lever, “The Unequalled,” full cap.
£4 English Lever, “The Special,” compel satid.
20/- The Unequalled Keyless Watch. 20/-
Country Residents and Visitors to Sydney call or send
o A. SAUNDERS, SI3 George Street (nearly opposite
Railway Station), SYDNEY.
Wolfe’s Schnapps cheers the mind and body.
Charlemont AM) Co., high art photographers.
Royal -Arcade, altogether owe their measure of
success to the fact that the merits of their photo-
graphy are always of a high order.
Use Bath o's Baking Powder.
Wolfe's Schnapps will make you a new man.
Reliable Watch Repairs. Daiims & Co., King-st. Arcade
Wolfe's Schnapps— the ladies appreciate it.
A good bed companion—Wolfe’s Schnapps.
Bona-Fide announcement. Highest cash price
given for all kinds of gent’s left off clothing.
Dress-suits for sale or hire. Letters promptlv
attended to by QUITTENTON BROS., 11l
Russell street, MELBOURNE. (New number,
ICS.)
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
Recommended by doctors—Wolfe’s Schnapps.
Wolfe’s Schnapps for lowness of spirits.
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
Wolfe’s Schnapps—It ie grand.
Insist upon having- Wolfe’s Schnapps.
Buy Wolfe’s Schnapps by the bottle.
How “Lifer” Dale attended the
Guest-Dinner.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The hist battalion of Her Majesty’s Onety-
Oneth regiment of Infantry having loft the second
battalion in depot at Chatham, sailed into the
Derwent estuary on board the temporary troop-
ship Hydaspes one January morning in 184— and
duly inarched with its colours fiaunti' g and band
{■laying into Barrack Square, Hobart i own.
In a fortnight afterwards the word was
pi ven fur the I’urt 1 airy in pie, the ()a I lands, and the
i’ort Arth nr detachments to proceed to their stations
and a day was fixed for their departure. All too
soon for the rank-and-file did this happen. Hobart
Town society, more “exclusive " then than now,
was as sociable and hospitable as in the current,
year of had welcomed the new-
comer < to its festivities as cordially as the existing
Hobartian boarding-house-keeper receives the
Australian visitor during the season. For the
officers, invitations innumerable to dinners and
excursions up the “Mountains” and picnics at
Brown’s River were already to hand; for the non-
coms., the respectable residents in Lower Camp-
bell and Harrington-streets were promptly solici-
tous; while the Lesbian -trongholdso! Wapping, and
the haunts of Bacchus situated on the Old Wharf
were equally expeditious in despatching their
emissaries to the files. The route would necessarily
put a stop to the gaieties of a large proportion of
the corps, so all .made hay while the sun shone.
Particularly was this true with respect to the
subalterns. It might fall to the lot of any
of them to spend twelve months immured
in a country township under conditions only
less galling than those attached to penal servitude
itself. While amusement and sport were within
their reach, they determined to take their fill of it.
Tims it was decided to entertain at dinner the
principal local magnates somewhat earlier than
strict etiquette wo dd warrant, and invitations
accordingly were issued for a date preceding, as it
turned out, that fixed by the Governor for the
country detachment to take the road.
# * *
The “guests’ dinners” of the Onety-Oneth
officers’ mess were traditional for their superb
quality. The regimental plate was of exceptional
value, and would not have discredited a crack
cavalry corps ; every officer pretended to be, and
an occasional one was, a connoisseur in wine ; and
the cook was capable of rising to “ the height of
great culinary achievements,” when previously
sobered by three days’ confinement in the guard-
room. Altogether the Onety-Oneth felt capable of
impressing the Hobart Town people, and when the
Governor accepted the invitation and the Bishop,
and the Chief Justice, and the Puisne Judge, and
the Colonial Secretary—not to mention a squatter
or two and the directors of the Old Bank—
followed his Excellency's example, the officers did
not think themselves peculiarly honoured - . Indeed,
there was an unspoken feeling amongst them that
it was they who were cordoning the honor. And
the “subs.,” at least, made up their minds that the
Governor and the Bishop notwithstanding, they
would make a rare night of it.
# - *
The evening of the dinner was like a
breath out of Paradise. A magnificent day was
succeeded by a night of unusual balminess and
splendour. An unclouded full moon was throned
in the heavens; the air-currents from Mount
Wellington bore down the perfume of pine and
wild honeysuckle and clematis to mingle with the
sea-breeze netting in from the battery ; and the
plash-plash of the waves on the cove beach
softened into melody by distance added its con-
tribution of delight to the beauty of the time. It
was a night to remember, and remember with
gratitude.
Music and mirth floated out into the moonlit
square from the mess-room. The gay sounds
filled the brilliant area of the quadrangle, and
penetrated, too, into nooks and corners of the
bordering buildings where the full-shining
Southern summer moon could not send its shafts
of glory. They momentarily, also, such is the
magic of happiness, lifted the shadow —darker
than any mere physical gloom—that burdened the
soul of a man who stood carelessly “ at ease ” by
the entrance to the square, while the sergeant of
the guard examined his pass. While the “ non.-
com.” pored over the unfamiliar form by the vivid
moon-rays, the springing tide of bitter pas-
sion which filled the brain and heart of the wait-
ing-man receded for a minute before the wave of
reminiscent pleasure that had been awakened by the
echo of revelry. Receded —but to surge the more
furiously, as the thought of the bright past was
dispelled by his recollection of the hideous pre-
sent.
For some minutes before he spoke the sergeant
fumbled the bit of blue paper which permitted
Convict Dale to be out in the streets after hours
“ when specially ordered by his master, in whose
possession,” so the wording ran, “this pass must
lie retained except when entrusted as oceasion re-
quires to the said prisoner between the hours of
seven and ten p.m.” At last he said dubiously :
“Well, I s’pose it's all right. But 1 thought all
you prisoners were locked up at dark ? ”
“ Those who are in the gangs. But we who are
privileged to be assigned can get out on that pass
—whe-i we are sent, that is.”
An acute and educated ear would have noticed
in the phrasing of the subdued reply, and in the
almost satirical accent which communicated itself
to the utterance, the evidences of culture and a
former sentiment. As it was, there was some-
thing in the speech that roused even the dull
understanding of Sergeant Greaves to the percep-
tion that the convict standing before him had
“once been a gentleman.”
Like all garrison soldiers when they first come
into contact with the “ Government men,” < Leaves
was inclined to exercise the airs of brief and
brutal authority over the creatures wearing the
broad-arrowed uniform. Nevertheless, it was with
a gesture almost- of respect that he handed back
the pass. Unconsciously he paid defence to the
former social status of its bolder.
“ Then I may go? ” asked the convict.
“ Well, yes.- I wish the officer of the guard was
here though. I’m new tq this d—— prison busi-
ness, and don't know whether I’m doing right 6r.
wrong in letting you go up to the mess/ S’pose
you mean mischief, what a devil' of! a row',
there’ll be ■!!*
“ Hadn't yon better show ,this to the officer,!
then ? ’ quer cd the convict.
“ I can't,” said the sergeant impatiently.
“He’s at mess, and as it’s the regiment’s first
guest-night since we landed, it’s not likely he’ll
show up till rounds.
A moment's pause, and then Greaves continued,
“Stay, 111 send a private with you.” He turned
to call to one of the guard, but before he could do
so he heard a cry. . ,
“Good God I The Onety-Oneth!” As the
sergeant moved the glitter of the regimental
number on his shoulder-strap had caught the
convict's eye, and he it was who had made the
exclamation.
Tutored as he was by six years of an awful
fate to a repression of his individuality, Convict
Dale had been stung by the sight of a once
familiar token to momentary forgetfulness of him-
self. In his last utterance he had lapsed into his
natural voice.
Sergeant Greaves paced a step forward, so ,that
the face of the now shuddering figure was fully
revealed in the moonlight.
And now the sentry, ten paces away, who had
stopped his “go” at the sound of Dale’s startled
cry, and who had been listening in a mechanical
fashion to the foregoing conversation, witnessed a
very curious thing. He saw his sergeant draw
himself up to his.full height and salute the fellow
whom just before he had addressed as a prisoner.
A very singular thing indeed for the sergeant to
do, for, according to the men of his company, he
was “a devil of a drill” and a denouncer of the
slightest irregularities in routine. And a still
more singular and curious thing was that Greaves
should take a quick step out of the gate, and that
he should be followed by the convict There could
be no doubt the man was a convict, for the
“broad arrow” was plainly discernible in the
® s & Tl % rs v/lm -
light of the white duck clothing which indicated
that he was an assigned servant. The sentry
swore to himself as it flashed upon him that th,,
two men had purposely passed out of his hearing.
# # #
Outside, Sergeant Greaves sharply turned
the angle of the wall and waited till the convict
came up. In a semi-dazed way, Dale followed.
Greaves broke the silence. “Oh, Captain
Egerton ; is this how I meet you again ?” he said.
Dale found his tongue only after a minute of
silence.
“No, I am not Captain Egerton; lam John
Dale, ‘lifer,’ No. 37,333,”'he replied, an inferno of
passionate feelings venting itself in the brief
answer. “ But who are you?”
“ Don't you remember Greaves, sir—your own
body-servant when you first joined the Onety’s,
and for whom you got his first stripe ?”
“Ah, Greaves, of course, I do. And now —you
are one of my masters and I am your man !”
“ For God’s sake, sir, don't talk like that. You
will always be Captain Egerton to me. Look
here, sir, not a man in the regiment believed that”
—Greaves stopped distressed.
“ Out with it,” said the convict, “that I mur-
dered Mr. Vincent. Thanks, Greaves, I didn’t.”.
Then he continued —“ But I didn’t know the
Onety-Oneth were here.”
“We've been here a fortnight—relieved the
73rd, you know.”
“ I didn’t know ; my—that is, I—oh, damn it, I
must say it —my master ” (he flung the word out
defiantly) “my master, I say, lives at Campbell-
town, and we only came down yesterday.”
And then the convict asked a few hurried ques-
tions as to regimental doings, which answered, ho
besought Greaves not to mention that he had
identified him.
. “That would be the last straw, sergeant,” he
said, “ to be recognised by my men and my brother
officers. I couldn’t bear that. How did you come
to know me ?”
“By your voice, sir. Oh, Captain, is there no-
thing I can do—can’t I help you to escape ?” Here
Greaves dropped his voice to a whisper
“Thanks, no, Greaves,good fellow. There’s no
escape for me except through death.”
“There’s that place across the Straits, sir—
Port Phillip they call it, I think. Couldn’t we
get you across there?”
For the first time since his boyhood days a tear
rose to Dale’s, otherwise Egerton’s, eye.
“Couldn't hear of it, sergeant; Id be brought
back, you’d be shot, and I’d be flogged.”
“Flogged—flog you, sir ! I'd risk the shooting
but flog you /”
“Ay, flog me—as they’ve done many a better
man before me. Why, some masters and mis-
tresses, too —would flog me for delaying on my
message here. As it is, I must go to my master in
the mess-room yonder. God ! to think of coming
near the men again like this ! ” The groan which
physical tortures could not wring from him, now
sprang from the sense of this fresh humiliation.
# # *
The sentry a few moments later saw his
non-commissioned officer march to the mess-room
by the side of Convict Dale—otherwise Egerton.
G reaves had resolved to communicate with Mr.
Grahame, Dale’s “master,” who was one of the
guests cf the night, through the mess-sergeant and
thus to save the convict the chance of further re-
cognition.
As they reached the steps of the broad verandah
the strains of “ A Fine Old I nglish Gentleman ”
came through the open windows and parted
Venetian blinds. The health of His Excellency the
Governor had just been proposed.
“We’ll have to wait, sir,” whispered the ser-
geant, “till he has spoken in reply.”
For answer, he was hurled aside, as Convict
Dale, otherwise Egerton, bounded on the verandah,
and, tearing aside the drapery which hung over
the doorway, walked into the mess-room. And
this is what horrified Sergeant Greaves then saw
and heard.
Dale, otherwise Egerton, stopped by the
chair of “ Mr. Vice,” and, facing the Colonel, who
presided, saluted.
The pause in the talk and laughter which had
greeted the Governor's rising deepened to the
intense silence of surprise at the intrusion. A
civilian, Mr. Grahame, was the first to speak.
“Great Heaven, Dale! What do you want
here?"’
The convict turned and said in the subdued
tones—expressive of obedience, but lacking aught
of cringing— wh’ch he was wont to use in speaking
to “free” people : “Mrs. Grahame’s compliments,
sir, and she will be glad if you will call for her at
Mrs. Chauncy’s on your way home.”
A smile of amazement and amusement passed
over the most of the faces at the board at this
extraordinary announcement of a simple message.
Grahame, with a gesture of irritation, motioned
Dale to withdraw.
Very different were the tones in which the con-
vict took notice of the commands.
“Yes, sir, I will go when I have said my say.”
All the force of the educated Englishman’s speech
expressed itself in these and his next words.
“Colonel Villiers, I owe you an apology for
this intrusion. Let me introduce myself again to
you. lam Egerton—once of the Onety-Oneth.”
The explosion in the central epergne of the pro-
verbial bomb-shell would have created less won-
derment than this statement. “Egerton!”
“Impossible!” “Good God!” and such like
exclamations fell from the lips of every military
man in the room—save one. Several officers
started to their feet.
“ Yes, gentlemen, I am Egerton alias Dale,
sentenced, as yon will remember, to death for the
murder of Mr. Vincent—a sentence, gentlemen,
which largely through your exertions was com-
muted to transportation for life —a sentence
gentlemen, which was unjust, because I did not
commit the crime—a crime, gentlemen, of which
that man was the perpetrator!” The speaker’s
outstretched forefinger .pointed to the one man
who had not expressed amazement at his appear-
ance. Gowning in his chair when the flashing
gaze of the Convict Dale, or Egerton, rested upon
Lieutenant Caramore, the latter not knowing
what he did, put his hand before his face, it seemed
the action of a self-confessed criminal. A deathly
silence held possession of the room.
“Gentlemen,” continued Dale, otherwise Eger-
ton, “ note that brilliant on Lieutenant Carainore’s
hand ! On the inner rim you will find, if he has
the courage to show it to you, the engraved letter's,
“H.V.Y. ’—the initials of Horace Vincent- -
Vincent whom I was accused of murdering. The
murdered man, it was sworn in evidence, wore
that ring the night lie met his death. It was
missed from his dead body. The judge, in sum-
ming up, as you may perhaps remember, gentle-
men, incidentally remarked that when that ring
was found the murderer, supposing that it was not
I who committed the deed, worrld be found, too.
Gentlemen, ther e is the ring—and the murderer.
As I stood outside this room to : night waiting
to deliver my message to my -my master, Mr-.
Grahame yonder, I saw through the lattice of the
blind that man lilt his wine-glass. The jewel
sparkled irr the light of the candelabra and I re-
cognised it, yards away as 1 was, as poor Vin-
cent's. Gentlemen, let him deny it if he can.”
The convict ceased.
A grim pause, during which the accused never
dropped his pointing larger, the accused never
lowered his sheltering hands, and then the Colonel
rose and demanded of Caramore that he should
satisfy the company by a mere word of denial to
tire charge.
Caramore did not move.
“Lieutenant Caramore!” thundered the Colonel,
“give one word of denial, sir, or I will place you
under arrest at once.”
No answer.
“Mess-sergeant, call the guard. Lieutenant
Jones, take Lieutenant Caramore’s sword.
Jones came forward reluctantly and placed his
hand on Caramore’s shoulder. There was a move-
ment now, but it was involuntary. Jones’s grasp
caused Caramore’s hands to fall. In an instant
all knew what had happened. Lieutenant Cara-
more had handed in his sword to a Higher Guard
than a subaltern’s. He was dead.
“The heart,” sentenfiously said the regimental
sawbones a minute or two later. Hut his lordship
the bishop gained a new and brilliant illustration
for his famous discourse (published in octavo by
J ’ivingtpn’s, London) on “ The Physiological Re-
lations of Conscience,” which made such a stir in
religious and scientific circles when, in due course,
he returned “home.”
# # #
As Surgeon Murchison rose from beside
tire prostrate figure, he took the ring from the
dead man’s finger and passed it to Colonel Villiers.
The commandant looked at it. “ Gentlemen,” he
said, “it seems to be as Egerton says. Here are
the initials ‘ H.V.V.’ ”
“1 wish to point out, Colonel Villiers, that
eve n though Lieutenant Caramore may have been
guilty, the innocence of that man there has yet
to be proved. Pending that and Her Gracious
Majesty’s free pardon, he is still a convicted
prisoner of the Crown, and as such, it is not
lexmly that he should be here.” The Chief
Justice spoke thus with his best judic al dryness.
The commandant replied, “Your Honor, nev-r
yet has guest been insulted at the table of the
Gnety-Oneth. But you may consider yourself as
insulted now if you like. I regard Mr. Egerton,
whom I have ever believed to be innocent, as
cleared from the infamous stigma which rested
upon him—and am rejoiced at it, though pained
the stain should rest on another brother-officer.
Pecause I consider him cleared I invite Mr.
■Egerton to remain as my guest during the few
moments any of ns can remain here after what lias
occurred. If anybody objects to his company, let
that person go from the room 1”
“Mr. Grahame,” exclaimed the now angered
judge, “I call upon you to order that convict from
the room under pain of withdrawal of your warrant
as a magistrate. ”
“ Your Honor can go to the devil,” was Mr.
Grahame’s response.
* * #
When Mr. Grahame—who was one among
a thousand of the employers of assigned labour in
the kindliness of his treatment of servants —left
the mess-room a short time afterwards, he walked
by the side of Egerton, otherwise Dale.
“ You’ll be sure to get your liar don soon, Dale.
By the way, how did you come to be called Dale
here when yon must have been tried under your
own name ?”
“My name is Henry Dale Egerton. A clerk’s
blunder in making out the warrant for my re-
moval to the hulk at Portsmouth to wait shipment
for this place styled me Dale, and I thought the
mistake a God-send.”
“ Just so. But what was your defence to the
charge of murder? ’
“ That I was elsewhere at the hour the deed
was done. But I could not prove it.”
“Why?”.
“ Because to have done so would have been to
blast the fair fame of a woman.”
Of the circumstances under which Convict Dale,
alias Egerton, received his free pardon, we may
have something to relate hereafter.
PRICE WARUNG.
FOR LA GRIPPE (INFLUENZA)
And all colds and bronchial affections the best
remedy is Bosisto’s Original Eucalyptus Oil. In-
ferior oils are bottled to resemble Bosisto’s.
Buyers should see that they get Bosisto’s oil, with
registered “Parrot ” brand on yellow label across
the cork. Accept no other, amt avoid disappoint-
ment.
Scraps from the Modern Dictionary. —
Water : A clear fluid once' used as a drink.
Honesty : An excellent joke. Bargain : A ludi-
crous transaction in which each party thinks ho
cheated the other. Editor : A poor wretch who
empties his brains to fill his stomach.
Ladies’ Silver Watches, 85s. Daiims & Co., King-street
Arcade.
Many in and out of the city will be pleased to
know that Cukf.lm.vx and Go., photographers in
the Sydney Arcade, have reduced their charges
for photographs. Cabinets now 15s. per dozen.
Ladies Silver Watches, 36s. Daiims & Co., King-street
Arcade.


d
ing do
t£o
jfCeleb
ran
m
m
iK?“,
Ml 1
JTO*. IND.
1
/ftEWED
S.nY
PORT J
fO
If in need of a stimulant take Wolfe’s Schnapps
You really ought to drink Wolfe’s Schnapps.
BUGGIES, BUCKBOARDS
—AND—
VICTORIAS,
At MANUFACTURERS’ PRICES
Send for Catalogues and Prices to
THE E. B. WHEELER CO.
265 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
Personal Items.
The sky-palaces in Melbourne, which seek
po make land of the sky, don’t pay.
The British press notices of Rolf Boldre-
wood’s “ Miner’s Right ” are most eulogistic.
Exploiter Stanley, it is said, “ simply
curses artists and interviewers out of his pre-
sence. ”
According to North China Daily News
the Chinese claim that Christ was originally a
Chinaman.
Charles Reade named one of his dogs
“ Tonic,” because, he said, “it is a compound of
bark, steal and whine.”
Purves, Q.C., frankly says: “I am
generally for the defence and engaged in the
thunder-and-lightning business.”
A thousand applications for relief have
been received in London from men claiming to
belong to the “ Gallant Six Hundred.”
Queen Victoria is 71. Of her immediate
predecessors, William died at 72, George IV. 68,
George 111. 82, George 11. 77, George I. 67.
A “private-enquiry agent,” advertising in
a Sydney paper for Tick borne case witnesses
asserts that the case will be re-opened in September.
Frank Fowler, in his “ Southern Lights
and Shadows,” boasted that he made £lOOO a year
as a journalist and bookseller’s-hack in Sydney,
N.S.W.
The first native Australian (in the person
of Air. J. J. Dalton, of Orange, N.S.W.) has
been elected to a seat in the British House of
Commons.
Benjamin Darling, the original inventor
0 f the revolver, died recently, aged 82, without
having participated in any of i he vast sums realised
by its sale.
Sir Mat. Davies, Victorian Speaker, is
turning up some of Ins multifarious financial com-
panies. The golden shower-baths are too over-
powering and he needs rest.
Somebody has discovered one more sur-
vivor of the “ Six Underd” in a warrior named
Kirkham. We shall have them rooting out a
wooden-legged Narellan shortly.
According to George Payne, Queen Vic-
toria’s ex-coachman, her cream-coloured State
ponies are bred at Hampton Court and are killed
when considered too old for service.
Dr. Cockburn, Premier of S.A., has a very
fine library. The doctor has views on some social
questions so advanced that they would cause the
sudden death of a bishop to hear them.
Henry Geoi’ge enthusiastically praises the
Melbourne Public Library, especially for the trust
reposed in the public. Most of the books re-
ported stolen are found stowed away on the wrong
shelves.
One of the wealthiest Australian ladies
now in England is Mrs. J. C. Dalglish, of Goul-
burn, whose husband, a local Government official,
left close on £300,000 in Broken Hill Proprietary
silver-stock.
A certain member of the Victorian As-
sembly is remarkable for one thing only. When
he failed in business a few years ago this gentle-
man struggled through his difficulties by paying
sixpence in the £.
One of the words which Gov. Hopetoun
fails to negotiate is “borough,'’ to which he gives
the true Cockney pronunciation; and it is very
droll to hear him delivering an address in which
the noun frequently occurs.
They will have it that Railway Speight
means to leave Victoria. He can no longer endure
the nagging of a reptile Press, which refuses to
forget the Windsor accident, though he was within
an ace of being killed himself.
Contractor Millar, of Melbourne, the
Prince of Wales’s yachting friend, has been show-
ing in Collins-street a lewt. bar of gold, the result
of some “ trial erushings ” from his South Union
mines in the Northern Territory.
Parson Marson, the hysterical Adelaide
barmaid - champion, is a recent arrival from
Hingland, and a keen but clumsy advertiser.
Some months ago, in an English paper, he
“slanged” South Australia right and left.
George Coppin took his first farewell
benefit in 1846, when he and his wife made their
absolutely “last appearance upon any stage.”
And yet his old contemporary identities will per-
sist in calling George the “Artful Dodger.”
R. L. J. Ellery, the Victorian astronomer,
arrived in Victoria in ’52 by the ship Moselle.
One of his fellow-passengers was Scobie, whose
murder by Bentley occasioned the first bloody
conflict between the diggers and the authorities in
Ballarat in ’54.
Herbert Spencer has entered on his
Seventy-first year. His “ Social Statics ” was
composed while lie was sub-editing a newspaper.
His first contributions to journalism appeared in
the Nonconformist in 1842, while he was working
as a civil engineer.
Judge Docker’s latest offensive alleged
utterance about selectors’ love for squatters’
mutton is perilously near the words in which
Walter Cooper wrote his own political death-
warrant ;—“ All a selector wants is a harness-cask
and a bullet-mould.”
An Anglo-Australian corrects an absurd
error of the English press, borrowed from America,
that Watson, the Sandhurst millionaire, left thirty
millions. He says it was under one million, and
that the richest Australians, Tyson and Clarke,
have under four millions apiece.
Sir Francis Murphy, the first Speaker of
the Victorian Assembly, is still to be seen on
Melbourne block in a “ loud ” necktie and looking
quite a gay young dog. It is 54 years since he
landed in Sydney and began to practise physic.
His father was governor of Cork gaol.
Parson Fellows, of Melbourne, brother of
Judge Fellows, the image of Sydney Smith, says
that on his late visit to England he found the good
old monarchy stronger than ever; the Socialist!
were not in it in the circles where he mixed—
Archbishop of Canterbury, and so on.
Another royal marriage. His Majesty
King Barak, aboriginal king of Melbourne, by
divine right, and every other, has taken unto him-
self a queen, and the Aborigines’ Board voted him
£3 for the occasion. Barak has gone and mar-
ried a widow, in mourning, face and all.
Says a Hongkong paper :—“ The late ful-
some review in the Times of Sir George Bowen's
life only tends to show in clearer light what this
colony escaped in getting quit of that microbic
snob, and humbug par excellence."' The metaphor
may be mixed, but the meaning is unmistakeable.
When Duncan Gillies made his first elect
tion speech he was dressed in a blue-serge shir-
and mole trousers. The other night he rose to
speak in the Victorian Assembly in a dress-suit
with a diamond solitaire flaming in his spotless
bosom. The bosom of his spotless shirt, we im an.
Mr. Thomas, the jet-black West Indian,
whose “ Froudacity’” took the'wind out of the
sales of Fronde’s book on the West Indies, died
recently in London, of phthisis. He was a superb
English scholar, and went to England only to
pub’ish his book now running through its second
edition.
Colonel J. M. Templeton (originally a
State - schoolmaster), who is now prosecuting
Mirams’ Permanent Building Society, as official
liquViator, was the first actuary of that ill-fated
organisation. David Syme was one of the first
trustees, and White Vest Zox one of the first
committee.
When outlaw Morgan was shot he wore an
enormous beard, which, skin and all, was cut off
and converted into a tobacco-pouch. Which re-
MR. RE YERE’S BACK BLOCK WELCOME.
New-Chum : “Is Mr. Ryan at home?”
Leather-neck Ryan: “That’s me, shine.”
New-Chum : “I’m going to Myall Downs for colonial experience, and I want you to let
me stop here to night. My name is-”
Leather-neck Ryan : “Never mind your name, it’s all the—same. Shure you’re as
welcome as if it was Ben Hall or Lord Carington.”
minds us that a well-known Sydney J.P. of tee-
total tendencies is alleged to have performed a
similar operation on a dead murderer in Darling-
hurst Gaol.
’Frisco Newsletter calls Rudyard Kip-
ling “ a howling idiot, a scrofulous fool, and one
of the most monstrous and absurd asses that ever
put his flat feet on this free soil.” It also casually
alludes to him as a “rampant donkey” who has
written what he calls a “barrack song” which is
“ putrescent rot.”
The Morgan controversy recalls the fact
that Mr. Bayliss, then, as now, Police Magistrate
at Wagga, was, while accompanying the police as
a volunteer, badly shot by the outlaw. Mr,
Bayliss’ gallantry on the occasion does not appear
to have availed him much so far as the public ser-
vice is concerned.
One of the pioneers of the coal-mining
industry up Newcastle (N.S.W.) way had a glass
eye. Having an internal ailment once he con-
sulted a well-known local medical man, who, after
a very careful examination of the imitation optic,
declared that Mr. B J s liver was in an ex-
tremely bad state,
“Mr. Thomas Shorthill, journalist,” whose
name comes up re the quarrel among the directors
of the abortive Daily Mail newspaper scheme,
was once a policeman, and got so badly bashed by
the Gollingwood larrikins that he had to retire on
pension from the force. Recipe : To. make a
journalist, take one policeman with a cracked
head.
Ex-Governor Lord Normanby died poor
as a rat, in a Duke of Westminster or Debrett
sense. He only left a poor matter of £6OO per-
sonalty, with probably the realty mortgaged up to
the eyes. Yet his life was not an utter failure.
Who’d have thought that such a lumbering old
galleon as Normanby was ever the lively, rattling
Mr. Selborne, in the farce? See what we may
come to. The Bulletin may yet be the organ of
Parkes’ great grandson.
POLITICAL POINTS
Bismarck is feeling all the pressure of
tyranny himself, being gagged and throttled by
his emperor. Diamond cut diamond.
Mr. Nicholas B. Downing has declined to
contest Queanbeyan in the Foreign-trade interest
at the next N.S.W. general election. Old Nick
likes a soft road.
“Toryism looks upon the mass of man-
kind simply as raw material which is to be worked
up into the happiness and prosperity of the few.”
Dr. Wallace, M.P.
Official evidence is extant to prove that in
1838 Downing-street authorities were seriously
considering plans for throwing a bridge from Van
Diemen’s Land to the main-land.
The N.S.W. National Club lately sacked
the white man who used to "supply it with
vegetables and now gets its cabbagee from a
Chinaman. It also employs two black cooks.
A very probable combination—provided the
Cockburn Ministry do not last the present session,
which is likely—is that of Playford, Chief Secre-
tary and Premier; Kingston, Treasurer ; and
Bray, Attorney-General.
General Booth, who has sensibly grafted
Socialism on to Salvation, is endeavouring to raise
£50,000 to establish two “ home colonies ” where
the wastrels of modern civilisation will have a
chance to earn their own bread.
Dilke has gone over to the new Radicals,
whose line is reform on collectivist principles, and
whose strongest opponents are Morley, Bradlaugh
and Labouchere, who are imbued with strong
leanings towards the individualism of the Man-
chester school.
Queensland sugar-planters, it is stated,
now meditate importing huge supplies of cheap
Italian labour under long agreements. It becomes
increasingly plain that Australia must adopt the
American law which forbids any man entering the
country under agreement.
An impudent attempt is being made to
force all people to set down their religion in the
English census next year. This is a dodge of the
Church party to prevent disestablishment. They
know very well that the bulk of the indifferent
will put themselves down as Church of England.
Memo, for all Radicals :
The Wisconsin Supreme Court has decided that the read-
ing of the Bible in public schools is unconstitutional
because it is sectarian, inasmuch as it teaches, among
other things, the divinity of Christ and the principle of
punishment after death, doctrines which are not held by
all religious sects.
As per Bulletin prediction several months
ago, Hon. A. Catt has been chosen Chairman of
Committees in the S.A. Parliament. Catt is an
up-country ex-storekeeper. The new Speaker,
Jenkin Coles, who beat Rounsevell by 17 votes, is
also an up-country man—an ex-auctioneer of
Kapunda (S.A.)
Out of the 54 members of the new S.A.
Parliament no less than 20 are Australian born.
There are 10 members who describe themselves as
“gentlemen,” whilst in the last House there were
none ! This is balanced, however, by the fact
that there are five journalists—a guarantee of
respectability, anyway.
The Czar’s right-hand man, for Australian
tips, is Admiral Aslanbegoff, who travelled over-
land from Sydney to Melbourne by rail. Speak-
ing at Melbourne Town Hall, he said that the
magnificent resources of Australia “could only
have been developed, as he saw them, by the
unrivalled energy of the free English people.”
Parnell’s reported offer of a seat in the
Commons to Sir Thomas MTlwraith is probably
due to John Dillon. The latter, while in Queens-
land, was entertained by MTlwraith with true
MTlwraithian hospitality, and subsequently ex-
pressed himself as being much impressed with the
striking personality and force of character of
Pleeceman Blake’s oppressor.
A local paper notes that at Queensland
military encampment this year, when cheers were
called for “ Her Majesty,” whoever that maybe,
the big majority of the Queensland Irish were
silent. Well—it shows that the Queensland Irish
aren’t hypocrites, anyhow. Queen Victoria can
travel from London to Ireland in a few hours, and
she hasn’t been in the country for over 30 years.
Physician Mare writes totheDucd’Orleans :
—“ If it is really your earnest wish to wear the
coat of the French soldier and share his meals,
you may enjoy that honour. You need only fol-
low the example of Archduke John of Austria,
who has renounced all the rights of a prince. By
doing so you would be on the same footing as any
other Frenchman. ”
Gordon, S.A. Minister of Education, who
so masterfully presided at the Postal Conference, is
a Republican, but is not yet plucky enough to
publicly say so. He has made a name in remark-
ably quick time. Two years ago he was an .up-
country lawyer, and now—by sheer ability—he
has attained a foremost place in S. A. politics.
Says Louise Michel :
To begin with, all the money should be thrown into the
sea. Yes, in a deep place, from whence it could never be
fished up again. Men and women would then start fair
in the race of life, and draw their sustenance from the
earth, which is the mother of us all. I would destroy—
efface from existence—the luxurious palaces of those who
have lived upon the sweat of their fellow-men.
“ Ulster Scot ” writes to the Sydney daily
press insinuating that W. H. Traill, M.P. (who,
by the way, is a Scottish Scot) dared not say
a word about his Republican ideas to the electors.
Most amusing this, as for years Mr. Traill edited
The Bulletin, and everybody knows it. “ .Will
Mr. Traill seek re-election on Republican lines ?”
Where would the Imperialists be on the straight
issue Monarchy v. Republic in South Sydney ?
Now-A-Days.
“ I want you to go to England to look after a
matter that needs immediate attention,” said a
railroad magnate to his chief Secretary the other
day ; “ how soon can you be ready ? ” The answer
was, “in an hour. ” The young man had crossed
the ocean several times and knew what prepara-
tions were necessary.
Less thtm fifty years ago the answer would have
been different. It took much time and money to
cross the ocean in those days, and ample prepara-
tions were necessary if any comfort on the long
voyage was to be secured. “Round the world in
eighty days ” is no trick at all now, and the
ordinary honeymoon trip will, in a few years,
doubtless include the circumnavigation of the
globe.
Of course people know a great deal more than
they used to !
Yes, about some things. They know a great
deal more about steam power, and its practical
uses. They know a little bit—they have just
penetrated the shell—about Electricity, evidently
the most,potent of nature’s wonderful forces. But
there is a great deal more for people to learn yet.
“How about flying across the ocean? People
laughed about the ocean cable once—what, tele-
graph under the sea, nonsense ! ” but half a dozen
cables are needed for the daily correspondence
between London and New York now-a-days.
Nothing is impossible. It used to be claimed that
Kidney disease was incurable, but in the ten years
since the introduction of Warner’s safe cure, thou-
sands upon thousands of people have sent in to
the proprietors of that remedy, voluntary testi-
monials declaring that they have been cured, in
many instances when physicians had pronounced
their cases incurable. These people know that
Warner’s safe cure cures kidney disease, because
they have been through the experience, and they
. are anxious their fellow beings should be benefited
as they have been. These persons can be found in
every community. Ask your friends and neigh-
bours about it. See what they say:—“Wangar-
atta, Victoria, May 21, 1890, Messrs. H. H.
Warner & Co. Ltd.,—Gentlemen, It is probably
20 years since I first began to suffer from con-
gestion of the liver and an obscure disease of the
bladder, as the Doctors described it. A few years
ago additional complications set in, and finally
the symptoms left no room for doubt that Bright’s
disease of the kidneys had obtained a firm hold,
while the bladder complaint was of the most pain-
ful nature, and necessitated the removal of the
water by artificial means. I became reduced to
almost a shadow of my former self, and from
weakness, despite every care taken, came into the
most deplorable state. After resorting to the use
of Warner’s safe cure, I found my urinary difficul-
ties to improve, and with six bottles the action of
the organs was so far restored that urination be-
came possible without the aid of an instrument.
Subsequent analysis demonstrated the efficacy of
the medicine in the total disappearance of albumen.
About 40 bottles of Warner’s safe cure and eight
vials of Warner’s safe pills have entirely removed
all my complaints, my weight has increased, and
I consider the cure the more startling as I am 71
years of age, (Signed) Wm. Dale, J.P.
Says Sydney E. News ;
It must have amused the Ayrshire people, from whom
he sprang, to learn that their burly and popular knight,
Sir Thomas MTlwraith, for many years Chief Secretary for
Queensland, was wanted to represent an Irish Home Rule
constituency under the auspices of Mr. Parnell.
It is easy to read between the lines of the
E. News’ article's on the Irish question. The
Irish of Australia, as also the Scotch Radicals
of Australia, have thoroughly taken its political
measure.


THE SPIRIT OF FEDERATION—PRINCIPALLY JAW.


NORTH SHORE RAILWAY.
The members of the Public Works Commit
tec, Messrs. J. P. Abbott, Lackey, Dr. Garran,
ilnmphory, Trickett, Garrard, Tonkitl, (Sobe-
land, Dowel, O'Salliraa and Lee, together
with tha secretary, Mr. Chas. Lyne, and the
acting ¥ngineer-in-Chief for Railways, Mr.
Henry Deane, met at the oommitteeroora at 1.15
p.m. yesterday and proceeded to the North
Shore''for the purpose of making a personal
inspection of Ihe North Shore Railway ex-
lojisioa.
fcny/yas
'pa. u)>/c( a']f rec {y ei
£cl J’^^/olut
fepsio>yi 7£>
df ped'itTop
? f 0 *’ ;
ai?cl ' M op
ARBOR DAYS.
The Minister for Public Instruction is having
circulars prepared for transmission to school
boards and the hqad teachers of the various
pnblio schools with reference to a proposal to
bold arbor days in connection with the different
schools
Gh.6 -
/^/ J oft'cfcLy / /
/P raTfyej* a /year, «ay
6tV//? <T ft/U i/ey crff-
coai-fr c/pa% Ji>c C> o 7? ?// ? < \
/J' >/ e;* aovj nyc ' 6
'The / e c\ce 3 o(jleU
/ 'S a
t/ ot yep y iop T .
\
f /4.6 a Ojf Ip l '
* et y 15 7bab if- you 1*
j tyeyy blacks oye
Oj\)oar £y^s / tun?
re< 6 ae J buy /o
y^ke
ffD
,^K- *y a h
(OUT. SPECIAL MESSAGE.) ~
LOSDOB, Honday.—Tho Csss c£ Enss ",
ia response to an appc"’ xrpm tic Queen ct
Denmark, his mothcr-it : nr, has premised U
inquire into the alleged atrocrt .ee committed
ea political prisoners in Siberia. He plants
himself to en&caror to sroelicrato their con-
dition in 'utaro.
"Jq-p/oeal/s ijew fyeo-A
£g&ji\zcC 6y rt)lyaoje f)ey** ore
*' Abigail. * rc: > 3C«.rrin?3ft»D ? f ' I'm going tol
Bw#."’ l ' ‘
T^xA-ao/ fro op press
//? / f‘ rv7 eeJ ccop y/fS/'crcc il
'y o:"o >
ra e/er /S fst- °f
cfartey
ft t ( opep ftp xfx c /
V €C .e 0 jhure &/
/S° c o 'Co^ oar*' 1 ' a nct Qf
Ve
ft7 e V <0- 7 *5
/
C«- b Z2r.
THINGS IN GENERAL.


Foreign & colonial exchange bank
OF AUSTRALASIA, Limited.
Sydney— B6 King Street.
Melbourne —369 Collins Street.
London Bankers —Australian Joint Stock Bank,
No. 2 King William Street, London, E.C.
This Bank undertakes the Exchange of Money,
both International and Intercolonial, includ-
ing the Coinage ok all Foreign Nations, in
addition to all usual and customary banking busi-
ness.
Deposits
Deceived.
3 years
12 months ...
6 months ...
3 months ...
Communications to
Managing Director.”
Bi per cent.
8 per cent.
7 per cent.
... ... 6 percent,
be addressed to “The
D J WILSON,
Secretary,
The SYDNEY DEPOSIT BANK,
90-KING STREET -90
Established 1885.
Agencies in London and throughout Australia.
Overdrafts granted against Deposit of Deeds,
and all the usual banking business transacted.
The following are the Kates of Interest allowed
for Fixed Deposits
3 Years 91; per cent.
12 Months 81, per cent.
(! Months 7A per cent.
3 Months 55 per cent.
5 per cent, allowed on daily balance of current account.
For the past Four (4) Years a Bonus of One per
Cent, has been paid in addition to the above rates.
This is the first and only Bank in the Colonies
which divides its profits with its depositors.
Communications from the country will be
promptly attended to.
T. S. RICHARDSON,
General Manager.
W. H. PALING & COMPANY, LIMITED,
356 George Street, SYDNEY,
HAVE Just Openf.o a Magnificent Lot of 3M’© , w
Also of the wonderful Victor
Pianos
Pianos at £45
from the celebrated Makers, Steinway, Erard, Uebel, Fenrich, Lipp, Eonisch, Bluthner, Collard.and otlioi
a i l( j Estey Organa. No such Variety or Value elsewhere for Cash or 1 uais.
Society
The direct cause of a certain recent Aus-
tralian clerical scandal is a tough, bony, spectacled
little woman—the very last of her sex whom you
would credit with acting as the mainspring of a
volcano in full blast. Howe /or, like horses,
women “ run dangerous ”in all shapes. The
story goes that she was the first love of the good
clergyman in a land beyond the sea, where the
lady who is now his lawful spouse saw and fell in
love with him. The rich relations of the latter
lady, when they saw that she had fixed her young
affections upon him and would bo satisfied with
no one else, imported him for her benefit —the
result all the world now knows. It is further
alleged that the relatives of the socially-wronged
lady behaved very handsomely towards “the
shameless minx,” in that they, on learning that
she felt deeply mortified at the transference other
old lover to another girl, sent her a substantial
financial solatium. But, however well women like
money, they love revenge still better.
# # *
A little while ago the Premier of a certain
Southern colony went to his club, and meeting a
certain younger member, he at once boxed ids ears
violently. Turning round to those present, he
said, in the way of an apology: “ Mr. Blank
knows all about it.” The public now know all
about it, too. It related to the inevitable woman.
And she was a woman, too. She weighed 17st.
# « *
The two High-Priestesses of Fashion, in
Brisbane, Lady M*ll wraith and Lady Griffith,
are engaged in a fierce social rivalry this winter.
If Lady MTlwraith gives a dance to which no
married ladies are invited, Lady Griffith gives
another at which young and lovely matrons are as
thick as the usual thing—leaves in Vallombrosa,
you know. Should Lady Griffith refuse particular
attention to debutantes. Lady MTlwraith forth-
with makes it the object of her life to cherish and
make happy those interesting creatures. _ Lady
MTlwraith never tolerated wall-flowers in her
rooms, and insists on every man dancing, whether
he can do so or not. Lady Griffith affects the
ancient custom of allowing her (male) guests to
please themselves. It is generally held that Lady
MTlwraith’s entertainments are more pleasant for
the girls, Lady Griffith’s for the men.
# # #
Gov. Carington sloshes round money re-
gardless of expense. The other night a Sydney
evening paper printed fifteen lines under a black
heading, showing how the Baron having heard a
dispute at the gate of Sydney Hospital between a
cabman and the custodian of an injured man as to
the amount of the latter’s fare, generously put his
hand into his own pocket and squared up with the
cabman ! Ain’t it sickenin’ ?
* * *
Uncle Abigail's alleged assertion to a Lon-
don interviewer that Gov. Carington and he
were on terms of tutoyage —that he was “ Abigail
to the Baron and not “Mister” Abigail—reminds
one of the story of the London peepshow-pro-
prietor who in explaining the situation of the
death of Nelson thus gave his version of that his-
torical event: “ Here, ladies and gentlemen, you
see the death of Nelson. The party a-layin’ on
his stummick is Nelson, and Captain ’Ardy, is
aide-de-kong, is seen loanin’ over ini. ‘ ’Ardy,
old man,’ says Nelson. ‘l’m’urt.’ ‘Not mortually,
my lord,’says Ardy.’ ‘lt’s mortual, I’m afeard
on,’ says Nelson, as ho flops over on his back and
dies.”
# * *
Governor Hamilton, of Tasmania, avails
himself pretty freely of his privilege of “ put-
ting it down to the Government.” Even such
uxuries as garden gloves are supplied to the pre-
lent occupant of Government House, Hobart, and
said for by the rate-payers. It is complained that,
phough Sir Robert necessarily has an easy time of
tt in Tasmania, he does not fail to make it still
ieasier. Public business frequently has to stand
still whilst His Excellency indulges in a day’s
fishing, which he does pretty nearly six days out
of the seven. However, there can’t be much
wickedness in a man who likes fishing.
# * #
Adelaide society is so disgusted with the
fast Kintorian “At Home,” that it threatens to
stay at home itself next time. The guests were
invited for 9 p.m., and were cleared out by 10.15,
much to their disgust. The programme consisted
of refreshments, accompanied by the strains of a
horrible brass band located inside the building.
# * #
Where is the divinity that doth hedge a
king ? Gov. Hopetoun, riding through the Malice,
got all over mud, and, separated from his courtiers,
was asked by some ehawbacons, “ Where’s the
Guv’nor?” “I am he, my men.” “Get out,
none o’ yer larks, young feller.” Here is an
amusing addition to the fash’n’ble fax and perlite
annygoats. You will see it in all the Edinburgh
papers. The young feller will go home converted
to Republicanism, sell all that he hath, and sack
the phlunkeys.
# * *
When the pie-biting Sydney Post-office
carvings are taken down, which The Bulletin
hopes will be shortly, let us hope they will not be
thrown away. The plain duty of the Minister of
Works is to find a place for them in the Australian
Museum. If they are a nightmare of art, Archi-
tect Barnet will be satirised until time is no more.
But, on the other hand, should Barnet’s ideas
commend themselves to future generations, he will
star until the stone crumbles as the Bruno of archi-
tecture, the bright and ill-used genius of 1880-90.
However, should the Museum authorities
refuse to give the relics house-room, they should
be offered to Barnum, who will palm them off as
aboriginal carvings from the great Fish River
caves.
* * *
The only non-prosaic divorce-case out
the many heard at Sydney this term by Justice
Windeyer was one in which a book-drummer, a
telegraph-operator, a cow-hide, a very weak
woman, a broken window, a midnight slide down
a verandah-roof, and, it is said, a razor, played
most conspicuous parts. To do the public per-
ception justice, it had almost unanimously labelled
the affair a swindle ere the summing-up upset the
brassy petitioner’s house of cards. After the ver-
dict the Judge made remarks to the effect that the
whole thing was obviously an impudent blackmail
“THE MODERN DANCING MAN.”
FAIR DANCER: “OH! CAPTAIN, I’VE NO PARTNER FOR MY NEXT
DANCE.”
CAPTAIN: “AW, VERY SORRY, I NEVER DANCE; MAKES ONE SO WARM,
BESIDES, SPOILS THE SET OF ONE’S TROUSERS, DONTCHER-
KNOW.”
conspiracy on the part of book-fiend Smith. The
moral, if any, of the affair is, that when two pre-
arranged coughs from any married Juliet may
bring on to the scene her hivin’ husband and a
horsewhip, the game isn’t quite worth the candle.
# * #
There is a new invention recommended to
the notice of the Social Purity spies. It is called
“The Door Porter;” and the placard says:
“ Props a door open in a moment.” Oh ! Here
you are. #
Nineteen new solicitors and one barrister
have been admitted, orareonthepointof admission,
to practice before the N.S.W. Supreme Court!
As the barrister appears from his name to be a
blood-relation of a sitting Supreme Court judge,
he’s all right—for attorneys and the public (such
is the depravity of human nature) apparently
entertain the absurd idea that it helps a case along
to fee a judge’s relative. Judges are but human,
they argue, and are unconsciously amenable to
those subtle influences which kink the intellects
of mankind in general. How, save upon this line
of reasoning, the nincompoops proceed to urge,
should it happen that their Honors’ sons and
nephews, not to mention their Honors’ sons-in-
law, have acquired so large a share of favour
at the hands of the attorneys and proctors of the
Honorable the Supreme Courts of Australia ?
# * #
As for the new attorneys, what are they
all to do ? One or two of them may turn out to
be reasonably good business men, one or two may
marry the relatives of judges or Q.C.’s, and several
more may prove to be first-class usurers. For the
rest, the outlook is dismal—managing clerkships,
small country practices, and so on. Just as there
is only one surgeon in thirty who knows his
anatomy thoroughly and has the supreme skill,
self-confidence, and conscientiousness which apper-
tain to the first-rank operator, so only one lawyer
out of thirty really knows any law and is fit to
advise any white man about even a case of goat-
trespass. There is still plenty of room in the
world for clever lawyers and clever surgeons, but
there is no real room in Australia for any further
supply of the miserable prosaic mediocrities who
are only lawyers and doctors because their rich
fathers have sent them to the University. There
are many surgeons who ought to be sausage-makers,
and the average attorney ought to be a pawn-
broker’s assistant.
* * *
A certain West Australian priest, on a
recent Sunday, delivered a two-hours’ sermon in
relation to the question of the desirableness of
letting servants go to Mass on Sunday morning,
instead of giving them liberty to roam about with
young men on week day evenings. And then,
having called two full-grown girls up to the altar
and soundly boxed their ears, he ordered them out
of the building. This fatherly gentleman takes it
upon himself to flog any children belonging to his
flock whom he happens to see misbehaving them-
selves in the street.
# * *
The latest number of Hermes, organ of
the Sydney University youths, is to hand. Its
title-page is graced by a Greek motto, and
Hermes’ alleged English will also be Greek to the
public. Speaking of the professors and their
attitude towards the students’ recent larrikinistic
display at Sydney Theatre Royal, the editor de-
clares ;
Either they entirely fail to enter into sympathetic rela-
tions with the students, or else they, with them, regard
the outside criticism as valueless, and have determined to
treat it to reductio ad abmrdvm.
Further on he asserts that “they (the professors,
we presume) do not feel sufficiently of us.” Next
time these youths p*andemoniumise the theatre it
would be as well for the police to fire them for
six months into the night-school at the gaol.
* # #
Writing of an up-country ball a corres-
pondent of the Tenterfield (N.S.W.) Star, after
minutely describing the dress of each lady, says,
in the most recklessly cold-blooded manner :
At last we reach the delicate subject of ” belle ” of the
evening, and after careful consideration give the verdict
as follows Honors divided between Miss Emma Nolan
and Miss O’Donnell, although Misses Stuart Fraser,
Perry, and Shaw, ran them very close for the coveted
honour.
Is the man’s life insured? For a very much less
aggravated offence, a Sunday-school teacher, the
mildest-mannered man that ever penned a “ par,”
engaged on a Sydney evening paper, was called a
bold, designing libertine, told that he selected as
belles the ladies who had submitted to his vile
attentions and threatened with a libel-action.
# * *
A newly-arrived clergyman preached last
Sunday night on “ Our warfare, and how to wage
it.” The Archbishop of Canterbury wages it on
£15,000 a year, but the Bishop of Durham only
wages £lO,OOO. It is a fearful drop to Bishop
Goe, in Melbourne, with the starvation wage of
£2OOO a year. Poor Dr. Bevan drops to £l5OO a
year. Now, what is the logic that makes Bevan
inferior to Goe, to the extent of as much coin as
would keep five working men, with their large
families ? How to wage it ? Cut the parsons
down to say, three pounds weekly or so all round.
Then, brethren, what a glorious shoal of labourers
would the Lord send unto his whitening harvest ?
But if one man mops up £l5OO, another two
another ten thou., and another fifteen, why !
Domestic servants are now almost 1 unob-
tainable in South Australia. Factory-work in the
daytime and the Salvation Army meeting in the
evening seems to be the ideal existence of the young
working girls.
# * #
The Wesleyans are said to number three-
fifths of the population of South Australia.
* * *
A pair of Mormons from Salt Lake City
have travelled Victoria during the last few
months, scenting up supplies for their mother
country. Sometimes they “ strike ile,” but
oftener they get struck themselves and generally
with something hard. At Mortlake they
knocked up against Rev. Alexander, who took
for his text on the Sunday of their visit the verse
beginning : “ Beware of false prophets,” &o. One
of the missionaries went home lately with a cargo
of 14 or 15 proselytes, mostly girls, for Mormon
land, but his mate is still on the hunt. The one
left is a greybeard of 60 years, who travels
mostly on foot and pegs along at a rare pace. At
present he is a widower, but his avowed intention
is to take to himself on returning home a few
blushing brides. The old man has a face like the
front of a blunt tomahawk, and this, joined to a
shrill, ungrammatical delivery, prevents his theolo-
gical utterances from being seriously treated.
The levity in attendance at his meetings is most
pronounced, and the venerable pilgrim has gener-
ally to conclude amidst a chorus of derisive per-
sonal remarks. A standing question is : “ How
many wives have you got?” There_ is nothing
which, on the average, so excites the disgust of a
young Gentile woman as an old man who goes
fooling about girls. As for the old man who is
THE LATEST TRAGEDY.
Come, let us sing a little song
About a clergyman gone wrong,
Alas ! the pity !
(It seems superfluous to say
This happened very far away
From Sydney city.)
We will not mention any names;
A Libel Act our spirit tames
And keeps us quiet;
We may remark we do not thirst
For residence in Darlinghurst
And prison diet.
Well, once dwelt in a certain town
A certain man who had a “down”
On evil-doing :
A rev’rend Johnny who was great
On the inevitable fate
From sin accruing.
He had been looked upon as one
Who ne’er indulged in carnal fun,
And ne’er desired to;
His faithful followers would vouch
It was indeed a virtuous couch
That he retired to.
In pious horror he had viewed
Those wicked “studies from the nude,”
Mere snares of Satan ;
For hours he’d stand with scornful eye
And gaze on naughty “Phryne,” by
Sir Fred’riok Leighton.
He said the works from Zola’s pen
Played havoc with the souls of men—
To Sheol led them ;
Of “ L’Assommoir ” he knew the plot
Of “ Nana,” too, and “ Piping Hot,”
For he had read them.
In wordy warfare he’d engage
Against the evils of the stage
And ribald farces.
(A godly Minister it hurts
To view those girls in scanty skirts
Through opera-glasses.)
One day he wasn’t to be found.
His congregation hunted round
And couldn’t find him.
He’d gone —wherever could he be ?
A damaged hat was all that he
Had left behind him.
We need not say we wept aloud
And in humiliation bowed
When first we heard it—
How he who strove a crown to win
Had given way to deadly sin—
In fact, preferred it.
Oh, sad to tell i He'd had to “ streak
(With blushing countenance we speak,
And hesitation);
He had been indiscreet, eheu !
With damosels belonging to
His congregation.
But we shall meet him yet again,
When from all suffering and pain
Grim Death acquits him;
So let us hope when he has flown
To where things evil are unknown
His halo fits him !


™ Th ?,
Marvellous
fitfl
JLWJ3. xJvL>
OPTIMUS
WATCHES
The Best, Cheapest and Most Accurate Timekeepers
ever produced.
Made especially to our order by one of the leadin'* and
most celebrated manufaeturers-of Watches in Switzerland
and experience has shown that no watch is better than a
well-made §wiss one.
tiilr movements, jewelled in six holes, kevless(10 turns
to wind), enamel dials, crystal faces, well made, splendidly
finished, nickel cases that will wear excellently; in fact
real good-looking, handsome little watches, aiid’maanili-
eenl timekeepers. ,
Twelve months’ guarantee forwarded with every one.
Send r.O.O, for 19s. 6d. (Is. postage), and have one
forwarded by post. If not in every way satisfactory after
a week money willingly refunded.
Only lo be obtained from
FROST «5c SHIPHAM,
Spkctaci.k Makkiis, Opticians & Kleotuicians,
471 & 537 George Street, Sydney.
Everybody now-a-days drinks Wolfe’s Schnapps.
The Choicest Jewellery. Daii.ms&Co., King-st. Arcade-
The Choicest Jewellery. Dau.ms&Co., Kimpst. Arcade.
If your liver troubles you take Wolfe’s Schnapps-
In Nervous Depression
USE horspord’s acid phosphate.
Dr. D. W. Gwvnn, M.R.C.S., and L.S.A.,
Neuadd Vach, Pontardulais, South Wales, says ;
“I have found it an excellent medicine in de-
pressed conditions of the nervous system.”
Use Batho’s Baking’ Powder.
Wolfe’s Schnapps will do you no harm.
Various people have declared that Brown-
ing was of Jewish descent, others have claimed
for him Welsh and Scottish ancestry, but Dr.
Furnivall has discovered that six generations
back the poet’s ancestor was butler at Cofe
Castle. The next advance of the Brownings was
to tavern-keeping, thence onwards to West-
minster Abbey.
Mind you get Wolfe’s Schnapps.
Many ladies admire gray hair —on some other
person—but few care, to try its effects on their
own charms. They need not. since Ayer’s Hair
Vigor restores gray hair to its original color.
Sold by druggists and perfumers.
WHY YOU SHOULD US®
Scott's Emulsion
mOocl Liver OH WITH
HYPOPHOSPHITES.
It is used and endorsed by Physic
clans because it is the best .
It is Palatable as Milk.
It is three times as efficacious as plain
Cod Liver Oil.
It is far superior to all other so-called
Emulsions.
It is a perfect Emulsion, does not sepa-
rate or change.
it is wonderful as a flesh producer.
It is the best remedy for Consumption,
Scrofula, Bronchitis, Wasting Dis-
eases, Chronic Coughs and Colds.
Sold by all Chemists,
SCOTT & BOWSME, New York.
Rob Eiv T SON’S W HIS K
£2OO PiFtXZJSS.
'it oi pin; i r,T ‘jr: *«io«o <jt jo 01
-7: K.woTjtM s«v
SMIXO r I<X) MUX XI AVAVV \MAIO
Pamphlets from the Agents, Aw T-T .nr* Sz
CO., t'mitoa, CHARLOTTE PEACE, SYDNEY
seen in the street carrying the baby for his young
wife —“ Ugh !” shriek the women in chorus.
** # •
One Zox, M.L.A., n large, genial joker,
who wears a white waistcoat and plenty of it, has
opened out a fresh field of opportunity to be
“loyal.” One day last week this short-winded
patriot straddled his way down Collius-street,
Melbourne, to assist at the inauguration of a bar-
ber’s shop. The proprietors received him with a
guard of honor and a wild flourish of concertina
and other ceremonies appropriate to such an Im-
perial dynastic occasion. Then “light refresh-
ments having been provided," Mr. Zox presid d
and proposed the health of “the Queen,” after
which he eulogised the enterprise of the proprietor
and declared the saloon open. Very likely he
rushed the chief hairdresser into sending a cable
message to Windsor Castle, and wo are prepared
to find that V. R. is deeply touched by this fresh
token of a nation’s love.
An Anglican clergyman holding a Mel-
bourne suburban incumbency worth £'3so a year,
contributes to the Victorian country press -at five
shillings per leader ! It must have been a pre-
decessor of this fellow who issued a printed cir-
cular to the rural papers offering contributions at
a similar rate. One c’ause of this new style i f
pastoral letter ran as follows: “The undersigned
is in a position to quote such exceptionally low
terms for his articles because he already derives an
income from other sources.” A Western editor
who received a copy of the circular sent it along
to Bishop Moorhonse with an appropriate sentence
<>r two of comment. The sturdy diocesan
promptly acknowledged the communication, and
“expressed his pleasure at learning that at least
one of bis clergy had sufficient capacity to contri-
bute to the editorial columns of the press.” The
man of scissors and paste laughed, and sort of re-
flected that he hadn’t come top dog out in that
fight.
* * #
It now transpires that when Allpress, the
Commercial Bank defaulter, vanished simultane-
ously with the appearance of a great shortage in
the accounts, he took his calm, unruffled way to
Brisbane and amused himself in that city’ by
making acquaintance with a number of detectives,
and asking them where on earth Allpress could
have got to. At this point the detective of fiction
would have clutched the smiling interrogator by
the hair and with great sagacity have deposited
him in a small, cold spot for the rest of his natural
life; but the live-meat detective only gaped in a
capacious manner till his jaws got entangled among
the adjacent buildings, and gave himself away.
And it is just this difference in the habits of the
two men which makes the official of the penny
awful a constant success, while the official of real
life is a ghastly failure. The former is a walking
mystery who stands for two hours within a foot
of the armed criminal without being seen, and
then departs unobtrusively up the chimney, and
having fallen from the roof on to a hard pavement he
rises again uninjured, and goes forth and arrests the
depraved lady with six husbands, all of whom are
watching her from behind a chest of drawers while
she kisses the individual with the bogus diamond
in his shirt-front. Also, he is perpetually on the
track of the gore-stained automaton with the
expensive watch chain and the profusion of
jewellery on his right forefinger, and he is an
untiring Nemesis that tra els with the speed of a
dismasted punt in the wake of the bad nobleman
who shook the property which belonged to the
rightful heir ; and when he is off duty he lives in a
mysterious, absorbed manner, and has his washing
done in a fathomless way by an unfathomable
washerwoman. And meanwhile the real detective
stalks about svyallowed up in the contemplation of
his own dignity, and looks like some imposing
victim of ancient fatality ; and when he is' put on
the track of a homicidal coal-heaver eight feet
high he generally ends by arresting a small, harm-
less, white haired person who hasn’t got pluck
enough to shake his fist at a weeping cripple for
fear of being slain on the spot. These remarks
are not intended to be'actively disrespectful.
* * #
The vulgar poor man looks dreadful in a
silk hat, while the vulgar rich man is simply awful
when he wears any other kind of tile.
* * #
A Brisbane man of remarkable business
talents and great ene gy has just died. When he
first settled in Queensland, 18 years ago, his name,
Agiiew, which was Scotch, and his native land,
which was England, secured for him the patronage
and help of the most orthodox among the “right
sort.” When it was subsequently discovered that
he was a bigoted Roman Catholic the cat was
whipped with extra vigour.
* * *
An up-south law-clerk many years ago got
ten years for forgery of a deed. On his'release
he was re-engaged by the firm of solicitors who
had prosecuted him. Again he forged a deed,
and again he was sentenced—this time to seven
years. After serving four years of his time he
was released on the joint petition of his employers
“WELL, I NEVER!”
SHE (unencumbered) : “WHOSE BOYS?”
HER OLD SCHOOLMATE: “WHY, MINE!”
SHE; “WELL, I NEVER! YOU MARRIED!”
HER OLD SCHOOLMATE: “WHY, DON’T I LOOK AS IF I OUGHT TO BE?
and his family. Once more he was re-engaged by
the same firm, although his health had been so
utterly broken down by his incarcerations that he
was and is to the present day incapable of putting
pen to paper for more than an hour or two daily.
From the date of his first imprisonment to the pre-
sent his salary has been regularly paid by the
solicitors. Deduction ?
* * *
A Deniliquin (N.S. W.) solicitor complains
that he was lately garrotted on the local race-
course and robbed of all he possessed. This is a
reversal of the usual order of things with a ven-
geance.
# * *
An American lady lately dislocated her
jaw laughing at a joke in a newspaper. She was
probably reading about Baron Oarington presiding
at a meeting of the Sydney Young Women’s
Christian Association.
* *
“Implacable creditors pressing the dis-
tressed proprietor. Only two weeks and—the
rest is silence !” Such is the wording of a selling-
off placard, of large size, on the most conspicuous
Melbourne boarding.
* # *
The explosive preacher and combustible
bearer of good tidings to the heathen, the deceased
General Gordon, left behind him the information
thattheSeycbelles Islands werethe original Garden
'of Eden, and that the forbidden fruit was the
coco-vtc-mcr, which weighs 201 bs. and is 25 inches
across, and grows at a height of 100 feet from the
ground, and is an iron-clad "Vegetable that can
only be opened by the aid of dynamite. Emm
this it is gathered that Eve was a lady at least 90
feet high in the days when she reached up for this
unconsidered trill?, and the Fall assumes a more
serious aspect when we consider the awful distance
she had to come down. Or else possibly she was
a person of the ordinary dimensions, but picked
the apple by machinery, and fell by the aid of a
steam crane. Further information on this point
will be thankfully received by The Bulletin.
# * #
It is reported that there are now 30,000
Buddhists in Paris alone. Are we'converting-the
heathen, or are the heathen converting ns, or what
does it a«> mean, anyhow ?
* # *
On one of Victoria’s olden and golden
days no,fewer than twelve columns of ads. re-
porting horses stolen appeared in the Melbourne
A nous. All offered rewards, and a large percentage
inchlded the significant “no questions asked if
animal returned.’’ As the animals never were
returned, the proviso didn’t amount to much.
* # #
Judging from things we see in the papers,
some section 3 .of the Australian public are not
morbid sentimentalists in regard to their ceme-
teries. In one place pigs are rooting up newly-
made. graves, in another goats are pasturing' on
the graves of the grandfathers of the rude hamlet.
At Bathurst the cemetery is described as a feeding-
ground for cattle.
* * #
A St. Kilda (Vic.) lodge-doctor, who has
on his lists a large number of the cable tramway
employes, -prophesies that 90 per cent, of them
will become paralysed after ten years’ service
* # *
■ Victoria has put very thick plate-glass
mirrors in each compartment of her new railway
carriages. IVheii the inevitable collision' comes —-
the result may be imagined.
* * *:
When one woman wants to mortally insult
another woman She just calls her “a female.”
And then the band begins to play.
* * * -
A queer sect, steadily progressing in Aus-
tralia, are the Christadblphians, who seem to hold
that there-is no hell—and no heaven, till the whole
concern is wound up. They fight tooth and nail
with the Second Adventists, Varley’s crowd, who
fight tooth and nail with—but what’s the good of
going all round the Kilkenny cats ?
* * *
The Melbourne butchers now talk of
closing at six o'clock. In former times a butcher
would not be allowed to serve on a jury, because
he was so bloodthirsty, but now the slaughterman,
after dabbling in gore, puts on evening dress, and
warbles : “ I wouldn’t harm thee, pretty birdie.”
* * *
S.M. Hera Lb “ ad.” :
Will the Gentleman please return money he borrowed
from hotel, King-street.
H e won’t. The gentleman who borrows from the
barmaid never does.
« * #
Premier Parkes is the happy possessor of
an indigo-blue cat which is completely thrown
away on him. Fancy the thrill of horrible appre-
hension ho could send through the Opposition—
and the Ministerial benches by bringing the
cerulean feline to the House the night after a
political banquet!
According to London Echo
Some months ago Sir Henry Tichborne received a letter
from a man in Australia, saying that the writer had
recently buried Sir Roger” in an island in the Pacific,
and asking for a pension. Sir Henry looked upon the
letter as a hoax. But some one lately went to the ex-
treme of paying £ll for a hoax, by cabling Mr. Henniker-
Heaton that the genuine Sir Roger had been found. Now
have come the details of the discovery, hut Mr. Heaton
won’t divulge them yet.
The now historic bogus balance-sheet of
the Premier Permanent Building Society ran un-
grammatically thus
The undersigned have carefully examined the above
financial statement,, as well as books and accounts con-
nected therewith, and find the same correct; have had
placed before them all securities and insurance policies
and comparing passbooks with ledger, the same agree.
And yet, even after this, people suspected
no hing!
(Some explanations are made of the scandal
about Crispi, the Italian Premier. Accused of
abandoning the wife who stuck to him in his
troubles, and taking another woman, he explained
that although th« wife got a diamond cross by
subscription, she also got drunk. He was not
married to her at all, but really married the second
woman (who was very much younger, of course).
Queen Marguerite, would not receive her at Court.
Crispi said— i: If you don’t, there will be trouble
in twenty-four hours.” She was then received
with all the proper koo-toos.
A detachment of old gentlemen from the
Victorian Legislative Council waited upon their
adored Hopetoun last week to present him, first
with an address of welcome, and, secondly, with
an address in reply to his recent “ speech.” His
Excellency said “he accepted with gratitude the
sentiments of loyalty to Her Majesty the Queen.
. . . It would be his duty to communicate
their sentiments of loyalty to the Queen . . .
and again thanked them for the expression of
loyalty to the Queen.” After quoting these ex-
tracts from a short paragraph report in a Mel-
bourne morning paper The Bulletin will merely
enquire : “ Ain’t it sickening?”
Lyman A. Humphrey, Governor of Kansas
State, writing to Knapp, of Sydney, says
that prohibition is triumphant and the liquor-
trade dead in his State, where people refuse to
even re-consider the matter. Each successive
legislature becomes teetotally stronger, and laws
more rigid are passed each session. The home
has squelched the saloon, and to sell liquor now
means to go to gaol. At one of the last district
courts there was not a single criminal case. Pro-
perty increases in value by leaps and bounds.
There are 10,000 free schools and not an open
saloon in the country. We must one day go to
Kansas. We want to meet a people so peculiar,
so different from the rest of the Yankees whom
we have met, that they don’t thirst for the thing
which they are forbidden to take.
They’ve toasted her at civic boards
Bestrewn with,massi ve plate,
Where geezers old, who love the lords,
Arc apt to congregate ;
They’ve toasted her in Senate halls,
With grave and potent mien,
And always at vice-regal balls
They liquor to “ The Queen.”
They’ve toasted her at Potts’s Point,
Where mixes Sydney cream,
And such as heaven doth anoint
Are held in much esteem ;
They’ve toasted her at garden fetes,
In chain, or claret cup
Whene’er the Jaynil Dan orates.
They “set ” Her Gracious “up,”
At all the haunts of pompous wealth
Some smirking Smith or Brown
Is bound to give her royal ’ealth.
And wet the good old Crown ;
She’s never missed by dudes who’ve been
Brought up with silver spoons,
And now they even oil the Queen
At barbers’ new saloons.
Where will men go to do it next ?
In agony we groan ;
They grab at every mean pretext
To make their grovel known ;
They’ll toast her at the pawnmg-suop,
With “ uncle ” in the chair,
For why the dickens should they stop
At cribs for cutting hair ?
A lay peace be unto Mister Zox—
And may they shave him clean—
And may he teach the barber’s blocks
To smoke a “ little queen ” ;
And may he, when he has to flit,
Through giving up the ghost,
Propose, in each new brimstone pit,
“ The usual loyal toast.”


Buy Wolfe’s Schnapps by the bottle.
Lord Wolseley, it is cabled, has refused to
Succeed Sir Frederick Roberts in India, and will
retire from the service in July. Wolseley, of
course, knew that he was being shunted in order
that Queen Victoria’s son, Connaught, might be
sent to the top of the tree.
Government Advertisements.
Department of Public Works,
Sydney, June 11, 1890.
mENDERS FOR PUBLIC WORKS AND
X SUPPLIES.
For Conditions, see Government Gazette.
TENDERS for the Works, &c., specified below
will be received at this Department until 11 o'clock
a.m. on the dates mentioned.
WEDNESDAY, JUNE 25.
Bridge over the Murray River, at Corowa— Con-
tract No. I—Supply of Ironwork. Contract
No. 2—Erection of Iron Bridge
Construction of Strong Room, Lands Office, Armi-
dale (freffi tenders)
Additions Police Buildings, Cudgellico (fresh
tenders)
Repairs, &c., Post and Telegraph Office’, Yass
Erection of Police Barracks, Cassilis
Bridge over Evans’ Plains Creek, at Dunkeld,
Main Western Road
Additions, Hospital for the Insane, Gladesville
Bridges, Nos. 1 and 2, over Stockton Creek, Road
Laguna to Morrisett
Erection of Cottage at Hospital for the Insane,
Parramatta
Erection of Police Barracks, Emmaville
Low-level Bridges, Nos. 1 and 2, over Butts-
worth’s Creek, on road Wilberforce to Free-
man’s Reach
Painting Stores, &c., Garden Island
Repairs, &c., Lock-up, Jamberoo.
Erection of Cottage, Urinals. &c.. west side.
Circular Quay
Construction of Hand-geared Punt for South
amptou Ferry, Clarence River
Construction of Swimming Bath, &c,. Cockatoo
Island, in connectian with N.S.S. Vernon.
WEDNESDAY, JULY 9.
Works. Cnlcairn-Corowa
Railway
Plans, &c., to be seen at
the office of Engineer-
in-Ghief, Railway Con-
struction Branch. Phil-
lip-street
Election of Court and Watchhouse, Michelago
Bridge over Marthaguy Creek, road Warren to
Quambone, at Inglegar.
Erection of Post and Telegraph Office, Silverton
(fresh tenders)
Repairs, &c., Post and Telegraph Office, Musvvell-
brook
Additions Court-house, Newcastle.
WEDNESDAY, JULY 16.
Works, Nyngan-Cobar
Railway
Plans, &c., to be seen at
J the office of Engineer-in-
j Chief, Railway Construc-
I tion Branch,
WEDNESDAY, JULY 23.
Works, Kiama-Nowra
Kailway
Plans, &c., can be seen
at the above office of
the Engineer-m- Chief
Erection of Timber Bridge, with hinged span, for
Behnoro Biver, near Gladstone.
WEDNESDAY, AUGUST 6.
Bridge, Hunter River at Aberdeen —Contract
No. I—Manufacture of Ironwork, &c. Con-
tract No. 2 —Erection of Bridge.
WEDNESDAY, AUGUST 20.
Bridge, Darling River at Wentworth —Contract
No. 1— Manufacture, &c., Steel Lift Span on
Iron Piers. Contract No. 2—Erection of
Lift Span, &c., &c.
WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 15.
Manufacture and Supply of 48-inch Wrough t-
iron Water Pipes, special castings, &o. —Con-
tract No. 72, Sydney Water Supply. (Dupli-
cation of Pipe Line, Potts Hill to Sydney)
Manufacture and Supply of 48-inch Cast-iron
Water Pipes, special castings, &c. —Contract
No. 73, Sydney Water Supply. (Duplication
of Pipe Line, Potts Hill to Sydney.).
BRUCE SMITH.
Miscellaneous.
NOTICE,
fl HERRY-BLOSSOM,
\J By the Author of “ Madam’s Ward,” &c.,
Is continued in
TIAMILY HERALD PART for MAY,
J 1 which contains also the continuation of
QWEN DALE’S ORDEAL.
4 NEW NOVEL,
A By the Author of “ A Bitter Reckoning,” &c.
Also, complete Stories, Essays, Answers to
Correspondents, Cookery, Miscellanea, Enigmas,
Charades, Riddles, &c.
FAMILY HERALD PART for MAY.
J 1 The Australasian says
“ This favourite domestic magazine retains all
its old interest and variety.”
The
FAMILY HERALD may be had in Half-yearly
Volumes and in Monthly Parts of all Colonial
Booksellers and Newsagents ; or the Monthly Part
direct from W. Stevens, 421 Strand, London,
England, for 14s. per annum, post free.
London; W. Stevens, 421 Strand; and at all
Newsvendors.
A. BOWMAN’S
LONDON MADE
Porpoise Hide Boots
Aie Reduced from 30s. to 21s.
249 PITT ST., SYDNEY, Near Tattersall's.
Porpoise Hide Wears Twice as Long
as any other Leather.
They are noted all over London,
Birmingham and Liverpool.
London Fasliions,
AND
Fresh Goods Every Fortnight.
Trade Supplied Wholesale at a Great Advantage.
Medical.
s' *WJ
WHEN THE BLOOD is thin or impure
every organ and fibre of the body becomes en-
feebled and less capable of resisting prevailing
diseases. Among the indications of depraved
blood are boils, carbuncles, pimples, eruptions,
sore eyes, ulcers, tumors, and glandular swell-
ings. To strike at the root of these evils,
cleanse the blood with Ayer’s Sarsaparilla.
This medicine has maintained its world-wide
reputation, for nearly half a century, as the
Standard Blood-Purifier.
It is a highly-concentrated extract of the most
powerful vegetable alteratives and tonics. The
most effective remedy for scrofula, it is equally
beneficial in gout, rheumatism, catarrh, and
dyspepsia, also in liver and kidney com-
plaints. A medicine for* men, women,
and children. Be sure and ask for
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla
PREPARED BY
Dr. J. C. AYER & CO., Lowell, Mass, U. S. A.
Sold by Druggists and Medicine Vendors.
ANY
WHO IS
WEAK
MAN
Nervous & Debilitated
Who in his youth has trifled away his vigour of body,
mind, and manhood, should consult PROFESSOR
CARL STINEWAY, the Eminent Specialist,
in diseases of the Genito-Urinary Organs, who is
still treating with the greatest skill and success all
Private, Nervous and Chronic Diseases.
Professor STINE WAY : S success, which has
become so firmly established throughout Australasia,
is based upon the facts: —ist. That every case treated,
even in its most remote effects, is specially studied,
thus starting aright. 2nd. The Medicines used are
exactly adapted to suit the case, and are compounded
from the purest, freshest, and refined ingredients,
thus promptly producing results without overdosing
or injur)'.
I seek cases where all else has failed.
Young and middle-aged men and others, who
suffer from Nervous and Physical Debility,
Exhausted Vitality, Premature Decline, etc.,
can recover the same degree of health, strength,
and energy experienced in former years, by
consulting (in person or by letter, which is
free), Professor STINEIVAY, who has re-
stored thousands of sufferers to vigorous man-
hood after all other treatment had failed. It
makes no difference what you have taken, or
who has failed to cure you. Cases that I accept
for treatment are quickly and permanently
cured,
DO ANY OF THE FOLLOWING SYMPTOMS,
OR CLASS OF SYMPTOMS MEET YOUR
DISEASED CONDITION :-Are you a sufferer
from bad health in any of its many forms, consequent
on a lingering Nervous, Chronic, or Functional
Disease ? Do you feel nervous, debilitated, fretful,
timid, and lack the power of will and action ?
Are you subject to loss of memory; have spells of
fainting; fullness of blood in the head; feel listless,
moping, unfit for business or pleasure, and subject to
tits of melancholy? Are your kidneys, stomach,
urinary organs, liver, or blood in a disordered con-
dition ? Do you suffer from Rheumatism, Neuralgia,
or other aches and pains? Are you timid, nervous,
and forgetful with your mind continually dwelling on
the subject? Have you lost confidence in yourself,
and energy for business pursuits ? Are you subject
to restless nights, broken sleep, dreams, palpitation
of the heart, bashfulness, confusion of ideas, aversion
to society, dizziness in the head, dimness of sight,
pimples on the face and back, and other desponding
symptoms ? If you are afflicted, why further neglect
your health or future happiness, when by a single con-
sultation (which costs nothing) j’ou can be placed on
the way to health, strength, and vigour?
All correspondence held sacred, A speedy
and perfect life cure is guaranteed iti all cases
I undertake, where doubt exists the sufferer is
frankly informed.
Persons living at a distance who desire
treatment without delay can, by forwarding a
full description of their case and fi, receive
by return of post the medicines required.
Do not despair, even though all others have
failed in your case. No matter what your
complaint may be, call or write—l will cure
you. If you are ill, do not delay IMy vast
experience enables me to guarantee a positive
cure in all cases undertaken. CONSUL-
TATIONS FREE. Medicines sent secure
from observation to any part of Australasia.
“ From Bondage to Freedom,” my
latest work on Private, Nervous and
Chronic Diseases, should be read by
every man ; nearly one hundred
pages. By post, two stamps.
A written guarantee given in all
cases undertaken, and no promises
made that age, integrity, and long
experience do not justify.
Send for treatise “ From Bondage
to Freedom.”
Address: Professor CARL STINEWAY,
23 Elizabeth St., Sydney, N.S.W.
Offices and Parlors—Rooms 2,3, 4. & 5,
Consulting Room —6.
Laboratory & Drug Warehouse—
Hunter Street.
Something New.
YOUR NAME neatly printed on Forty (40) Beautiful
Embossed VISITING CARDS, comprising Floral
Landscape, Sea View, Bird, &c. No two alike. ALL
FOR ONE SHILLING in Stamps, postage paid. Agents
wanted. Samples free. Address-
Austral lard and Novelty to.,
U Uu.visr Strsbt, SYDNEY.
Amusements.
jj E R MAJESTY’S THEATRE.
Lessee and Manager Mr. Geo. Rignold.
Doors open at 7; commencing 8. Carriages at 10.30.
IMMENSE SUCCESS ! IMMENSE SUCCESS !
of Dion Bouoicault’s Celebrated Drama,
A. IF 1 T IB IR, X) A. IR IKI-
“ OLD TOM,” Mr. WILLIAM RIGNOLD.
Box Office at Theatre from 10 to 5. Prices as usual.
J. P. Macdonald, Acting-Manager.
QKITERION THEATRE.
Under the Management of Messrs. Brough and Boucicault.
Acting Manager ... Mr. H. J. Magee.
EVERY EVENING ! EVERY EVENING !
will be presented
G. W. GODFREY’S SUCCESSFUL COMEDY,
THE PARVENU.
Interpreted by the
BROUGH-BOUCICAULT COMEDY COMPANY.
The Comedy produced under the direction of
Mr. DION BOUCICAULT, Junr.
Prices—ss, 3s, 2s and Is, Box Plan at Nicholson’s.
jgONDI AQUARIUM.
The Most Popular
PICNIC AND PLEASURE GROUNDS OF AUSTRALIA.
The Famous Switchback Railway, conveying
Passengers from Cliff to Cliff daily.
Splendid Asphalt Open-Air Skating-Rink Free to Visitors.
Open Daily from 10 a.m to 10 p.m.
Admission, Is.; Children, 6d. Trams to Gate —Fare, 4d
mHEATRE ROYAL,
A ROCKHAMPTON, QUEENSLAND.
Seating Accommodation
(200, Dress Circle.
k 200, Stalls.
UOO, Pit.
Stage, 45 x5O feet. Scenery and Fittings com-
plete, and every convenience. Sliding Roof for
ventilation.
W. 5. CAPORN & CO., Lessees.
For Terms and Dates, apply
BEALE AND COMPANY,
Sydney, Brisbane and Rockhampton
Theatre royal
Lessee ... ... Mr. S. Lazar.
Sub Lessees, Messrs. Williamson, Garner and Musgrove.
Treasurer Mr. Geo. L. Goodman.
EVERY EVENING ! EVERY EVENING !
J. L. TOOLE
IN
A Fool and his Money and Ici on Parle Francais
ADMISSION —ss., 3s. and ONE SHILLING.
JJARLINGHURST SKATING RINK.
SKATING
TO-DAY
SKATING
TO-NIGHT
SKATING
TO-DAY
SKATING
TO-NIGHT
SKATING
TO-DAY
SKATING
TO-NIGHT
SKATING
TO-DAY
SKATING
TO-NIGHT
SKATING
TO-DAY
SKATING
TO-NIGHT
SKATING
THE LARGEST AND BEST
IN THE WORLD.
Remember! Remember!
Seven Laps to the Mile.
THE SPLENDID FLOOR
PRONOUNCED
PERFECT!
THREE SESSIONS
TO-DAY.
Morning, 10 to 12. Ad.,6d. Skates
Free. Afternoon, 2.30 to 5.
Admission; Gents, Is; Ladies, 6d.
Skates, 6d.
Evening, 7.30 till 10.15.
Admission, Is. Skates, Is.
Season Tickets;
Gents, 50s. Ladies, 40s.
SKATING
TO-DAY
SKATING
TO-NIGHT
SKATING
TO-DAY
SKATING
TO-NIGHT
SKATING
TO-DAY
SKATING
TO-NIGHT
SKATING
TO-DAY
SKATING
TO-NIGHT
SKATING
TO-DAY
SKATING
TO-NIGHT
SEATING
Theatrical
HOSIERY.
SILK
COTTON
WOOL
TIGHTS, SHIRTS,
AND
OPERA HOSE,
PADS, ANIMAL DRESSES, ETC.
SPECIALITIES MADE TO ORDER.
Gilt Trimmings, Boots, Stage Fabrics.
Ksp“ Manufacturers to all leading London and Provincial
Theatres.
AUSTRALIAN AGENTS WANTED.
B. BURNET & CO.,
42 King Street, Covent Garden, London.
JC. Li nowitl A SON, Manufacturers and Im
a porters of Superior Oak-Tanned Leather Belting.
and every description of Leather Goods for Mining and
Engineering purposes.
All Goods hearing the above Trade Mark are warranted
to give entire satisfaction, or may be returned at tne
Makers’ expense. The Pioneer Oak-tanned Leather
Belting is used exclusively by the N.S.W. Government.
Over 200,000 running in Australia. The cheapest and
best Belting in the world. Send for prices and catalogues
162 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
HEALTH for the MILLION \
WATSON’S
Mild, Aperient, Antihilious
Pills, purely vegetable
in their composition,
are'particularly recommended to either sex, where a
gentle, but effective aperient is required. These Pills
are invaluable for all complaints of the Stomaon and
Liver, speedily removing sick headache, biliousness,
indigestion, etc., and cleansing the
blood of all impurities. To Ladies
these pills will bo found invaluable.
One trial is sufficient to prove their vast superiority
over all others. Sold by all Chemists and Storekeepers.
Price Xm» per box. Prepared solely by John Watson,
Chemist, George Street, Sydney.
PILLS
Wholesale Agents
Messrs. Elliott Bros., S. Hopfncno & Co., Australian
Druo Co., Fikldiiam Oothslp & Co., Mtirb & Solomon,
Tillooq & Co. and J. R. Lovb & Co.
furniture, &o.
JJEWTON AND
LAMB,
FURNITURE and PIANOFORTE
WAREHOUSEMEN,
CABINETMAKERS, UPHOLSTERERS
AND
BEDDING MANUFACTURERS.
SHOW ROOMS AND MANUFACTORY:
SPRING AND O’CONNELL STREETS.
EASY CHAIRS, for Parlour, Library, or Bed-
rooms, new designs, covered to order, in
any mater : al.
PIANOFORTES, by R. LIPP and SOHN,
L. NEUFELD and other Celebrated
Makers at WHOLESALE PRICES. Newton
and Lamb.
B
AGATELLE BOARDS, Portable, various
sizes.
BEDROOM SUITES, complete, in various
Woods, and very handsome designs, with
7 feet Wardrobes, or with smaller Wardrobes for
single rooms. Great variety.
NEWTON and LAMB,
Furniture Warehousemen,
SPRING AND O’CONNELL STREETS.
BEDROOM SUITES, fashionable early
English designs—Wardrobe 4 feet, with
silvered plate-glass door : Washstand, with marble
top and tile back, Towel Rail; Toilet Table,
with Swing Glass attached; and Two Cane-
Seated Chairs, 14 guineas.
NEWTON & LAMB,
O’Connell and Spring Streets.
o
CANVAS FOLDING
COTS, for camping
out. A cheap occasional
bed light, strong, and
handy, 10s. 6d.
Newton & Lamb.
DINING TABLES, with patent extending
screws, from 5 feet long and up to 20 feet.
WALNUT TELESCOPIC DINING
TABLES with extra leaves, strongly
made, £3 10s.
HALL FURNITURE, HATSTANDS and
CHAIRS. LARGE ASSORTMENT.
NEWTON & LAMB.
r IBRARY FURNITURE, CENTRE and
±J SIDE TABLES, BOOKCASES, SECRE-
TARIES, READING and LOUNGE CHAIRS.
COMMODE CHAIRS, BIDETS, with Pan,
SHAVING STANDS, NEWTON and
LAMB.
JAPANESE BLINDS, White or Green (extra
quality), fitted with pulleys and cord, 6xB,
6s, 6d.; BxB, 95.; 9xB, 9s. 6d,; 10 xB, 10s. 6d.;
12 xB, 12s. 6d. ; 12 x 10, 15s. Newton & Lamb,
Furniture Warehousemen, Spring and O’Connell
Streets.
EASY CHAIRS for Parlour, Library or Bed-
rooms. New Designs covered to order in
any material. Newton & Lamb.
8 ~ ELF-AD JUSTING CHAIR and COUCH,
for Invalids and Medical Men.
T> OCKING EASY CHAIRS, elegant and
It i restful —a speciality. Newton & Lamb.
o
MERICAN PATENT
SHUT UP
CLOTHES DRYER.
135 feet of hanging space
Very Cheap.
NEWTON and LAMB.
ò
c
ANYAS FOLDING
CHAIRS.
Substantial and Light
Suitable for Shipboard and
Verandah.
Price Very Low.
NEWTON and LAMB
Furniture Warehousemen,
Spring and O'Connell Streets.
GARDEN SEATS, 6ft. long, Rustic Cast-iron
Standards, 14s. 6d., 195., 255., 325. bd.
Newton and Lamb.
ERANDAH CHAIRS.
INDIAN LONG ARM LOUNGES.
X>ATTAN VERANDAH LOUNGES, from
IV 155.; and large variety of Chairs, from
10s. 6d.; special designs, extra quality. Newton
and Lamb, Furniture Warehousemen, Spring and
O'Connell Streets
V
EWT O N
and lamb.
FURNITURE and PIANOFORTE
WAREHOUSEMEN,
CABINETMAKERS, UPHOLSTERERS
BEDDING MANUFACTURERS.
Show Rooms and Manufactory ;
SPRING and O’CONNELL STREETS.


ifc'-i ■-
? 1
, i 11 - ■ ~
j-IdOH-T A - V-. Unsth )” 10- Depth 2-1"
Vm Haling
”” ' " " '(LIMITED) '
T ' m .° st complete and perfect instrument ever offered at the price
X Seven Octaves, Full Trichord, Iron Frame, Patent Check Action, Brass
I'm'Plate, Cross-strung, requiring only the minimum of tuning the tone
» poweriui, dear brilliant and pure. In very elegant Black °aml Gold or
Walnut Gases.
This Piano is introduced by TV, it. PALING & CO , Limited, fo, the
purpose of mooting a long-felt demand for a good, reliable instrument at an
easy price, and thereby giving to the head of almost every household an
opportunity of supplying his home with a firshclass Piano at a price heretofore
jpaid lor a much inferior instrument. >
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
If asked to drink, call for Wolfe’s Schnapps,
Ask for the
Unequalled
“DAWN” 3d.
CIGAR
Of all
Tobacconists,
o
Store
AND
Hotel
KEEPERS.
Wholesale Agents: A. M. MARKS & Co., 74a PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
ò
KUSIM THE'BISr
MATERIALS-, THE
BEStRESULTSEOLLOW
lay
• ® Electric Hair Brushes will posi-
tively CURE Nervous Headache or Neuralgia in
five minutes, if used according to directions. In
ordinary everyday use they will promptly arrest
Tailing hair and baldness, dandruff and diseases of
the scalp, and make the hair grow long and
flossy. _ These beautiful brushes are made with
pure bristles—not wire which injure the scalp and
•cause baldness and irritation. Illustrated price
list of Dr. Scott’s Genuine Electric Appliances
.posted free on application to the
Pall Mall Electric Association,
56 MARGARET STREET, SYDNEY.
Signs on a Sydney tram-route :
A. Crookk, Commission Agent.
T. Jerry, Builder and Architect.
Is a pure,’fragrant,non-gritty tooth powder, and
'warranted free froin acids or other ingredients which
destroy the enamel; it whitens the teeth,prevents and
arrests decay, strengthens, the gums, and gives a
pleasing fragrance to the breath..
Kalydor
a soothing,thealiog'yand emolliehtVhilk 'fof the'facp
and hands, and is most cooling and refreshing to the
skin in hoi climates ; it removes freckles, tan, sunburn, 1
roughness and redness of the skin, pimples, cutaneous
eruptions, &0,, soothes and heals prickly heat, stings
[of insects, eczema, burns, and all cutaneous irritation
more effectually than any other preparation, and pro-
duces soft fair skin, and a lovely delicate complexion ;
It is .warranted harmless, and free from jmy lead or
poisonous ingredients.!
ROWLAND'S EUHONIA, a fragrant toilet,warranted free from
[bismuth or metallic ingredients, which ruin the com-
plexion; in three tints—white, cream, and rose. t&Ask
or druggist for, Rowland’s articles
PI
,/i/lho extraordinary reputation of Rowland’s Macassar
Oil, Kalydor and Odonto, induces some shopkeepers to
[offer spurious imitations under the lure of being cheap;
the principle on which each is prepared is confined
solely to the knowledge of A. Rowland & Sons, of 20,
Hatton Garden, London, and therefore it is highly
necessary t® buy ho Macassar Oil. Kalydor or Odonto
[except those made by them, and,which bear their
name in red ink on the wrappers.'
DrJSPEER
31 YORK STREET, WYNYARD SQUARE, SYDNEY,
P.O. Box 920. This eminent specialist is a graduated
physician of Harwood University, U.S., registered by the
Governments of N.S.W. and N.Z., and has devoted 16
years to the special study of CHRONIC, NERVOUS, SKIN
and SPECIAL diseases of MEN and WOMEN. All apply-
ing to him will receive his honest opinion of their com-
plaints. No experimenting ;no mercury used. A positive
cure guaranteed or forfeit ,£2OO. His vast experience
tells him that where there is no organic disease, and
nothing but an inorganic trouble, or, in other words, a
conglomeration of symptoms producing a certain result,
there is no reason why it cannot be removed with the
proper remedies: therefore he guarantees. He claims to
be the most skilful and successful physician in N.S.W. in
his particular speciality, viz., the CHRONIC and SPECIAL
DISEASES of MEN and WOMEN. Examination and
advice free to all. Charges moderate. Office Hours—lo
a.m. to 12 a.m.; 2to 4 and 7 to 8p m. Sunday, 10 to
11 a.m. only.
KTervous Debility.
Consult Dr. Speer in all cases of NERVOUSNESS through
indiscretion, for his many years of practice with this
dreadful disease enables him to remove all traces of it and
to return the victims to full VIGOUR, HEALTH and
MANHOOD.
N.B.—TWENTY SHILLINGS is sufficient to send for
remedies necessary for the cure of NERVOUS DEBILITY.
DR. SPEER will forward, post free, at ss. per box, or
21s. for five boxes, the following celebrated pills:—
1. AMERICAN “VITAL” PILLS, for nervous debility,
lost vitality, sexual weakness, errors, &o.
2. AMERICAN “PRIVATE” PILLS, for discharges,
contagious sores and blood diseases.
3. “FEMALE” PILLS for irregularities and obstruc-
tions.
4. AMERICAN STOMACH, LIVER, and KIDNEY
PILLS, 2s. 6d. per box.
ó
o
Business Announcements.
/"COUNTRY STOREKEEPERS,
Should write or call upon
ETC.
A. M. MARKS & CO.,
—lmporters of—
Furniture, Pianofortes, Glass, Earthenware,
CHINA, FANCY GOODS, ELECTRO-PLATE,
CIGARS it TOBACCONISTS SUNDRIES
SOLE AGENTS FOR
Dawn Cigars and Salonica Turkish Cigarettes.
Special Novelties in all Lines for Christmas Trade.
Prices on Application to—
M. Marks & Co.,
Vickery’s Buildings, 74a Pitt Streeet, Sydney
AND AT LONDON.
Telephone, No. 919.
NOW ACKNOWLEDGED
THE BEST
IN THE MARKET
KV
s
H
W
o
SOLD
EVERYWHERE
Sole Agents; JAMES MOIR&CO.. 58 Margaret st„ Sydney
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
THE REFEREE.
oX
To argue the inferiority of Australian horses
from the doings of Kirkham and Narellan would be ridi-
culous. The thorough-bred is a lottery, and of the many
annually foaled only a minority ever go through the
ordeal of training, and of those only a still smaller pro-
portion win a race. Had Kirkham and Narellan re-
mained in Australia they might have proved out-and-out
duffers as youngsters even more fashionably-bred have
done. The voyage to England and the colder climate
may have delayed their coming to maturity, and perhaps
this accounts for the rumour that Narellan is still grow-
ing. That such a test of the respective merits of the
English and Australian horses as that now 7 being made by
the Hon. James White is not conclusive, is shown by his
preparations for two other attempts, A far more correct
test as to the relative merits of our English horses than
'he. running of Kirkham and Narellan is the opinion of
Indian racing men and American dealers who have dealt
with us, and these are in favour of our cattle. After all,
very little is to be gained by pitting Kirkham and
Narellan against horses ,of the same breed. The great
point,to decide is our superiority in riding and training,
and wa trust that this w ill be decided by Raville and
Chicago.
# * *
Now matter how inferior Kirkham may have
been to the placed horses in the Epsom Derby he should
never have finished, amid the laughter of the crow 7 d,
“ with hanging rein and open mouth.” No one has ever
seen ahorse turned out by a crack Australian trainer
finish in such a style even after a fast race and a gruelling
struggle in the straight. Australian training and Aus-
; tralian riding must have a show in England.
* * #
The day before the “Moorbank scandal” ver-
dict was given a member of the Victorian Club offered
plaintiff Kelly £SOO for his chance. The difference be-
tweeni refusing and accepting that sporting offer meant a
loss of £495 net to Kelly. And, by the way, it is obvious
that the jury made a complete mess of their verdict in
unanimously agreeing that the “stuffing”,of Moorebank
w 7 as not proven, while awarding only a “fiver” to the
man who had undoubtedly suffered great loss from the
charge being shouted abroad. In more than one sensa-
tional case tried in Melbourne lately, the jury have done
their best to show 7 that in a gathering of 12 men tb"re is a
good deal of imbecility- or worse.
# # *
After the disclosures in the Kelly and Gill
sporting libel-case, sing hey for the noble army of sports-
men who would put down pony-racing in the interests of
the morality of the “ Sport of Kings and blacklegs.
* # *
Thomas Corrigan was before the court, in Mel-
bourne, the other day, for ill-treating- a horse. Not the
cross-country jock., though. It’s always the horse that
ill-treats the jockey. Jockeys, especially some jockeys,
take great care of horses, and cause them as little exertion
as possible.
* # *
“Pendragon” concludes a lengthy article in
London Referee re the death of Jack Thompson thus;
“ And now he, the strong and sturdy, and healthy-looking
and athletic, and, above all things, the good-natured and
generous, is dead ; and no man who really knew him can
help being saddened by the information.” They were not
always friends ; Solomon—for that was Thompson’s real
name—threatened to punch head over his
rough handling of Trickett when the N.S.W. sculler first
met Hanlan, but when “Pen.” visited Australia they met
and got to know each other.
* * *
Can anything be more ridiculous than the pre-
sent method of apportioning weights on the turf? One
day we see a pony at, say, the Sydney Driving Park,
carrying lOst. to victory, the next a 10-hand thoroughbred
is awarded at some of our big meetings about Ost. over a
six-furlong flutter, to be at once followed by a Blue
Mountain or a Bellringer with 13st. 71b. on his back over
a trying four-mile course with fences, &c.
* # *
The trying nature of the English Grand National
course can be judged from the fact that though a steeple-
chaser’s career extends to, as a rule, six years only, three
horses have won twice, though several have got placed in
different years. One of the three was Abdel-Kader, an
animal interesting to Australians, for does not Adam
Lindsay Gordon tells us of
“A horse that at Warwick beat Birdlime and Yorick
And gave Abdel-Kader at Aintree nine pounds.”
According to this, “Mr.” Dick Neville’s mount, The
Favourite, must have been a “hot Tm.”
* * *
There was a bit of a history attached to Spoilt
Child, who was destroyed at Randwick on Saturday.
When the property of W. A. Long he won a selling race,
and when brought under the hammer the person deputed
by Mr. Long to buy him in w T as by some means absent,
and Mr. Kennedy got him for “a song.” Indue course
his new owner won a selling race, and Mr. Long played
tit-for-tat by purchasing him over Mr. Kennedy’s head.
At Long's recent sale Kennedy again became his owner.
* * *
The jlimping horses had rather a bad time of it
at Randwick on Saturday, which cannot be wondered at
considering the rain which fell the previous night. The
writer does not think the authorities who decide these
matters would bring off a jumping meeting on a sloppy
course had they to ride in the races themselves.
* # #
The riders of all the winning horses at Rand-
wick last Saturday were Irish.
* # *
A Sydney daily, which professes to be an
authority on rowing, tells us that there are one or two
“dark horses” among the scullers on the Parramatta
who will yet astonish the world. It is always safe to back
public form against “ dark horses,” especially in rowing,
for, as we before stated, the “coming” men do not often
come. Hanlan was years rowing before America hailed
him as champion in 1876, and Englishmen sneered at his
pretensions until they actually saw him in 1879. Beach
did not burst forth as a meteor, but had to struggle
against reverses. Searle, brief and brilliant as his career
was, commenced at the lowest rung and went by degrees
to the top. Yes, it is always safe to back public form
against “ dark horses” and “bottled-up wonders.”
Let us hope that O’Connor and Frank Punch,
ms backer, will remain firm in their resolution not to fix
the stakes for a championship match higher than £2OO
a * : old ring days the champion had to meet any
challenger who staked £IOO, or resign the belt. When
the London Sportsman Challenge Cup w'ent with the title
any sculler who deposited a certain sum—£2oo, if we can
remember—was entitled to a match. Hanlan w'on this,
and, occupying a unique position, could then dictate
terms. This, however, is no precedent, for a future
champion might, if he chose, fix the amount at £SOOO
with j'ust as much reason on his side.
* * *
The last Brown - Bubear race was a very
shady one, seemingly. The public are inclined to
believe that Bubear, feeling himself rowed out, con-
sidered his share of the steamer-money might be most
easily earned by courting a foul, and that he was not
greatly annoyed when, after a rattling race, Brown
succeeded in rowing into him. Why the
crowd should have cheered Brown, however, for doing
that which they deemed worthy of hooting in Bubear is
not evident. A contemporary says they thought it
retributive j'ustice.” A better term weuld be provincial
partiality. Brown admits that Bubear gave him quite
enough work while the race lasted.
* # *
Taking a line from the Bubear-Brown races,
there is a grand opening for a lightning sprinter on the
water. Give your man the lead, entice him into your
water, and then make up your mind to decide the race in
the next hundred yards. It is much easier than rowing a
race right out.
* * *
ladies are going in shoals to call upon
O Connor at his Parramatta quarters and see him do a
spin. The Canadian ought to bear Hanlan in mind, and
take care that history does not repeat itself.
* * *
Beach never worried —never met trouble half-
way. He could lie down and peacefully sleep an hour
before a championship race. Stansbury can do this, and
so can M ‘Lean. O’Connor cannot, nor can Kemp. They
are both “worriers.”
* # *
Edward Smith, the Colorado heavy-weight, has
knocked Mike Cleary out in thirty-two seconds. The
house was worth £3OOO.
* # «
The S.Mi Herald says that “the boxing contest
between F. P. Slavin, the Australian, and J. M'Auliffe, the
light-weight champion of America, for £SOO a-side, has
been fixed to take place in September.” According to
this, the nine-stone M'Auliffe is to meet the fifteen-stone
Slavin. “Joe,” the giant who fought Jackson, is the
slogger whom Slavin has taken on. A similar mistake
was made when the cables were misinterpreted as having
said that heavy-weight “ Jem ” Smith had fought middle-
weight Carrol; also, when it was said that “ Tenner ”
Lloyd was dead instead of the millionaire of that name
Hut one might go on for ever citing cable blunders.
* * *
Mr. J. Connole, of Queensland, started in the
Carrington Novice Handicap and ran nowhere. In the
May handicap at the same ground he showed such speed
in winning two preliminary heats that the other peds.
objected to his competing in the final. The committee
disqualified him for inconsistent running. This is simply
preposterous, and creates a dangerons precedent. The
peds are merely ruled by the “ gaffers,” and these are
mostly betting-men. When the latter strike against a
dangerous man in the future, they will know how to get
him out of the way.
• * #
An Australian paper says that Hanlan’s meteoric
appearance on the Thames “ astonished England.” This
is wrong. England knew Hanlan very well before he
dipped a scull in the Thames, for on his first trip he never
rowed on the Thames at all. His matches against
Hawdon and Elliott were rowed on the Tyne, and it was
not until he crossed the Atlantic again to meet Ned
Tnekett that he appeared on the Cockney stream.
* * *
When B. R. Wise defeated W. G. George, at
Birmingham, for the mile championship, in 1881, one of
thernost astute “gaffers” stated that he would back the
University man against any in England provided he
turned pro. Wise could not run beside George when the
latter was at his best, but then he was not an every-day
runner, and could never be relied on to come near his true
form.
* # #
The Marylebone v, Australians cricket-match,
played under favourable conditions throughout, and won
by the home team by seven wickets, exhibited phenomenal
scoring at the close, for the Marylebones, with 111 runs
to get and 82 minutes to get them in, won with a
quarter-of-an-hour to spare. That’s the sort of cricket
people like to see, not your pottering Barrett-Bannerman-
one-run-an-hour style.
IMMENSE EAT WOMAN.
At Mildura, Victoria, the other day, a woman
was seen to step off the scale weighing 413 pounds,
and she was raised without irrigation. A long,
pinch back skeleton, raising his hat, said “Pardon
me, madam, but where did you get that fat?”
“Not from irrigation,” she replied, “but from
drinking that famous St. Louis Lager Beer, the
purest beer in the world.”
The Professional and Literary men of London
give their preference to Esterbeook’s “ Relief ”
Pen. It is a swift and easy writer, and preserves
the characteristics of the hand. Samples free at
all Stationers.
_ ALWAYS AHEAD.
With it none other can compare,
None other dare compete,
For Pemell’s Flour is everywhere
Known to be good and sweet.
Canon Tucker has withdrawn his name
from the Charters Towers Republican Associa-
tion* The Canon’s resignation, it is believed, is
at the instance of his bishop.
Land at Perth, W.A., the best Investment
Plans from Intercolonial Investment Co., Ltd.
96 Bathurst-street, Sydney.
VENTRILOQUIST’S DIFFICULTIES.
Professor Bourne, the celebrated ventriloquist
and conjuror, of Hoxton, London, has been before
the English public for the past sixteen years, and
perhaps no gentleman in the profession is better
known, or more kindly received in the provinces}
where crowded houses invariably follow his an*
nounced appearance. He states that for many
years he was attacked without a moment’s warn-
ing, with sharp, excruciating pains, which darted
through his back like a knife, causing him to fall
down as if in a fit, completely powerless, and in
this condition he would remain for weeks at a
time, thus being obliged to cancel his engage-
ments, which were already booked ahead ; and
besides suffering the most intense agony, he was
put to great financial loss, and the public disap-
pointed by his non-appearance. Most learned
medical men were consulted, advertised remedies
were tried; but the malady increased, and the
professor grew worse, until he was advised by a
chemist to use St. Jacobs oil, and before the
contents of the first bottle had been used he was
perfectly free from pain, and has been aisle to
fulfil his engagements ever since. Now, when
indications point to a return of the pain, he im-
mediately applies St. Jacobs oil, and says that it
invariably puts him right. He says he “has cause
to bless the oil both on account of his health and
pocket.” The above is only one of the many
instances where St. Jacobs oil has proved to be a
friend of the travelling public. It is said there is
not a, theatrical company travelling in Great
Britain which does not carry a liberal supply
among its properties. The world-wide reputation
which this liniment has obtained is truly wonder-
ful. It is not only found in nearly every house-
hold, but her Majesty’s troopships, the Cunard
Steamship Company, and other large steamship
lines, do not consider their ships ready for sea
without a supply of St. Jacobs oil on board.
IN PUBLIC FAVOUR EVERYWHERE.
(From the Oldham Standard.)
“ Desiring to obtain further information the re
porter called on the old and well-known firm of J.
J. and J. Thompson, who stated that the demand
for St. J acobs oil was simply enormous ; in fact
they sold more of the oil than all liniments and
embrocations put together, and the remarkable
fact is, said Mr. Thompson, that everyone seems
to speak well of St. Jacobs oil. It seems to con-
quer pain quickly and surely; consequently the
people buy it. Mir. Thompson said, further, that
owing to the rapidly increasing demand for the
oil, it was almost impossible to keep sufficient
stock on hand, although they buy the same in lots
of sixty dozen at one time direct from the pro-
prietors. ”
THE SECRET OUT.
Where do they go to? What is the secret of
their astounding success? Questions easily
answered. They go into every civilised land on
the earth’s surface, and they are to be found in
the pockets of every people who wear clothes. The
more there are made, the more there are wanted,
and the only real difficulty in connection with
them is to keep up the supply. They have an in-
finite variety of recommendations, but the main
one is their wonderfully accurate performances as
timekeepers. The invention of the Waterbury
doomed expensive watches to gradual extinction,
for the Waterbury is exact and trustworthy, and
its cost is within the reach of all.
THE PROOF OF THE PUDDING
IS IN THE EATING.
THE PROOF OF THE WATCH
IS IN ITS GOING.
OVER 60,000 WATERBURY WATCHES
SOLD IN GREAT BRITAIN
IN SIX MONTHS.
The Waterbury has received eulogistic notices
from all the leading journals in Great Britain and
Ireland. It is a genuine, reliable, accurate, and
durable keyless watch, in nickel silver, ever bright
case. It runs twenty-eight hours with one wind-
ing, regulates to a minute a month, and rarely
gets out of order. To be obtained from all re-
spectable storekeepers or dealers throughout the
colonies; price, series E (the old long-winding
favourite), 13s. 6d.; series J or L (the new short-
winding marvels), 20s.
DON’T BE MISLED .
INTO BUYING CHEAP SWISS WATCHES
UNDER FANCY NAMES.
The Waterbury Watch is not alone the cheapest
watch in the world to buy, but it is also the
cheapest to have repaired. Repairs are charged for
according to requirements; but in no case do they
exceed 2s. Gd., except by mutual agreement. The
Waterbury Watch Company's Repair Depot is at
56 Margaret-street. Note the address.


Business Announcements.
PRIDDY & CO.,
Hats made to Order-
mjmii.
Mercebv^
.0®
Morley’s Hosiery.
438 George Street, Sydney.
Branch—67B George Street, Brickfichl TUB.
THE WATCH OF WATCHES! 1
y
>*
55CS
CH *% c
fe^“''»/»»iiliinlu«*
THE WATCH TRADE REVOLUTIONIZED! I
A GENUINE SILVER STOP WATCH (OR CHRONOGRAPH)
FDR ONLY 352-
Silver case, heavy crystal face, superior movement, jewelled in
right holes’, instantaneous action, registering as low ,as OJS h
FIFTH of a second. Centre seconds, sunk enamelled dial, pei feet
timekeeper, in fact a watch to please every man in the Colonies.
Just the thing for Spertsmen in all branches ofsport
Capable of timing ALL events, no matter how IMPORTANT.
equally as well as any stop watch costing TM ENTY POLNDS.
Buitable lor trainers, starters, judges, and competitors in races of
all kinds. Especially useful to horsemen and athletes
The Victoria Stop Watch is beyond doubt a marvel of cheap-
jess as regards appearance, workmanship, durability and time-
Sing rn.alit.es The above illustration is about the sire of
watch which is SILVER, and VERY HANDSOME in appear,
uice.
Kcad what Mr. Geo. B Gordon, the noted cricketer, has to say
about the "VICTORIA ’■ CHRONOGRAPH;-
" The Victoria Manufacturing and Importing Go.
** Gentlemen,
«• The ‘ Victoria Stopwatch I had from you some time ago
cives perfect satisfaction, and though 1 have a more expensive
one, 1 am pleased to say the * Victoria' suits me equally as well,
think no sportsman can afford to be without one.
" Yours faithfully. r
“(Signed) GEO. B. GORDON*
We are the first to ofler such a great bargain to the Colonial
public, and the low price we are selling them at is for a ITtU
TIM E only—hence we shall require all purchasers to ettbeut and
send the attached Coupon with their order, to shew they are
entitled to this extraordinary offer.
Remember the price of the ' Victoria Stop W afeh is oni>, 2,
free by registered post to any part of Australia or NewZeatand.
Send money by cheque, postal order, money order, or draft, and
do not omit to send the Coupon,
A remittance must accompany all orders.
“Victoria" Stop Watch COUPON'®*
This Coupon entitles the holder to ONE
“Victoria” Stop Watch, for £2 (registered
postage paid), provided order is sent not
later than Ist Sept. 1890.
(Signed) the VICTORIA MANUFACTURING & IMPORTING CtJ.,
256 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE.
Address or Call on the
VICTORIA MANUFACTURING & IMPORTING C»-
256 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE.
PROBLEM OF TO-DAY-WHERE CAN WE GET GOOD
BOOTS?—SOLVED AT LAST.
B. FRENCH
(The French of years ago)
Can supply Residents here with Boots better made than
ever Boots that must wear well and give satisfaction.
Send vour orders then to 82 Oxford Struct, and be sure
to enclose Sizes and Remittance, when your parcel will be
sent at once by Post, Rail, or Steamer.
Notice Prices for Boots that look well, wear well
and fit well.
Children’s Elastic-sides, 2/-, 2/11, 3/6, 4/-, 4/6, etc 1
Men’s & Youths’ ditto, 5/6, 6/-, 6/6, 7/6, 8/6, etc. /
Best
Boots
Men’s & Boys’ Bluchers, 2/11, 4/-, 5/-, 6/-, best ever made.,
A Line of Stylish Laced Boots for Best Wear
(Boys’, Youths’ and Men’s Sizes).
W ENGLISH BOOTS for LADIES, CHILDREN, etc.
Sent as ordered. Lowest Price.
Satisfaction given or Money Returned.
Note the Address:
ECLIPSE BOOT CO.,
82 Oxford Street, SIDNEY.
E. French, Manager.
C.
— o)
VERV = OLD = SPECIAL
SCOTCH = WHISKY.
DISTILLERIES CO. (Limited).
TWAIN’S FAMILY & COMMERCIAL HOTEL,
VV PRINCES STREET,
(Opposite G.P.0.)
X 3 TJ I>T IE ID I TnT, TsT.ZL
A LEY. riIMKR
I’roprlelor.
SHRACE
V
*
Wk
A
O
o.
SCIENTIFIC
INSTRUMENT MAKER
19 MACQUARIE PLACE (Opposite Exchange).
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
Chaelemont and Co., photographers to the
Governor, Royal Arcade, have moderated their
charges for photographs, with a view of meeting
every one. Cabinets now 15s. per dozen.
The United States is a nation of traders, Two-
thirds of the business men of the Republic use
Estkrbkook’s ‘ ‘ Falcon ” Pen. Samples free at
all Stationers.
Use Batho’S Baking Powder.
lndelible
Approved and Patronised by Vice-Royalty and
the Elite of toe Australasian Colonies.
First Prize:
MELBOURNE EXHIBITION.
Marking' Ink.
Report of the Government milytical Chemist: “I have examined Ewing’s Indelible Mat-king Ink,
for maSg Ihmn, etc. It is very good, the writing done with it resisting all attempts to wash out.
It may be well recommended. — Signed, Wm. Johnston.” p • . m * E-wine 1
All Wholesale and Retail Chemists, Stationers, Drapers. In cases, T. A. Ew ng,
Chemist (by appointment) to His Excellency, Brunswick-street, Fitzroy, MELBO UR-NE.
Grrancl !Pier Hotel, Manly.
ELECTRIC PHOTO EHO. CO.. 8 BRIDCEST-, SYDNEY.
IiATiIIEU A BROOKE • • • * Proprietors.
This Hotel has been Re-Furnished throughout. Cuisine and Comfort a Speciality^
Aarons’
Exchange Hotel, Sydney.
'
1?
• 1 1:
fUfiSiiisifc S i
4'i
rn iiplilliß^
mt
Adjoining the Sydney Exchange.
Mining Financial and General Mercantile Intelligence
Posted several times DAILY in the Building.
TELEGRAPH, POST and MONEY ORDER OFFICES on the PREMISES.
This Hotel has been thoroughly renovated and re-furnished, and is now unrivalled for comfort
md attention. Aarons’ Exchange Hotel Co. (Limited), Proprietors.
«
THE!
XJ IVL."
r ■ 1 UTS brand e>f Razor is something superior to anything that has ever been offered to the public.
T ’m Slow ground, beautiful silver steel, and rings like a bell : set ready for use, and we
guarantee each Razor for two years. It never retjuires grmcl.ng, antj to gentlemen who shave them-
.elves they cannot possibly do better than to try this particular brand.
' i Single Razor, in strong leather case, 10/(5; Pair, in beautiful morocco leather case 21/-
Pnce I Single Razor, ivory handle, 15/-; Pair Razors, ivory handles, in beautiful case, 30/-
Kegiatered and sent I’ost Free to any part of the Australian colonies.
SOLE AGENTS: CRAIG & AITKEM, Potosi Hairdressing Saloon.
680 i 682 GEORGE STREET. SYDNEY.
Medical.
DR. RICHARDS.
s tfUTi
CO
*•••
;rv i ■
I£J:
n»
L tcfe; l
Wmm
- -JSK
This eminent Specialist, Founder, and Chief
Surgeon of the long-established and favourably-
known Dispensary that now bears his name, re-
ceived his medical education! in the leading colleges
and hospitals of Europe. He has devoted a life-
time to the study of
PRIVATE, NERVOUS, AND SKIN
DISEASES.
He has by profound research thoroughly investi-
gated their origin, traced their deadly sources and
insidious dissemination, and ascertained the surest
and safest methods by which they may bo eradi-
cated, with these widely recognised qualifications
combined with unswerving faithfulness to his
patients, he has during his practice, extending
over FORTY YEARS, attained a well-deserved
pre-eminence in their treatment. His practice
embraces diseases which probably cause more un-
happiness than any other class of troubles that
afflict mankind.
YOUNG MEN
who suffer from the results of early follies, trans-
gressions or excesses of more nature age, bladder
difficulties, a whitish or dark ropy sediment in
the water, accompanied by slight burning or
smarting sensation, Headaches, Drowsiness during
the day, circles round the eyes, Giddiness,
irregularity of the bowel?, specks before the eyes,
bashfulness, discontentodness, weakness or pains
in the back, Liver or kidney complaints, dreams,
buzzing noises in the cars and head, pimples, a
fear that something dreadful is about to happen,
weak stomach, yellow or blood-shot eyes, impure
blood, hasty, uncontrollable temper, hacking
cough, who cannot marry, nervousness in society,
wakefulness, palpitation of the heart, general
weakness, and other symptoms which lead to in-
sanity and death, should consult him, for he has
mastered these difficulties. On receipt of 6d. in
stamps he will send secure from observation in a
plain wrapper, postage
FRFE, A LARGE CLOTH-BOUND
BOOK.
Showing plainly how all diseases of the private or
nervous system may be cured thoroughly and per-
manently without unnecessary expence. This
book will prove a valuable companion, and even
though you be perfectly well its general inform-
tion and prescription may assist you in restoring
some poor friend to health even after his case has
been pronounced incurable by his medical at-
tendant.
ONE POUND IS SUFFICIENT TO
SEND
for Remedies necessary for the cure of NER-
VOUS DEBILITY. Should you require medical
treatment, as. procrastination is sometimes dan-
gerous, it would be advisable for you to sit down
quietly in your chamber and write to the doctor,
detailing every experienced symptom. Ho will
on receipt of such a letter, write you, promptly
and courteously, a candid and straightforward
oponion of your case. If you do not think you
understand the case, send for his famous medical
work, the price of which is but sixpence ; enclosed
in the volume will be found a list of carefully-pre-
pared questions, which will, in all probability,
assist you materially in describing your ailment.
Dr. Richards uses nothing but the purest remedies,
and never prescribes mercury under any circum-
stances. The moment letters are carefully per-
I use d and answered they are destroyed by fire,
and patients may rest assured that their cases
will remain a secret between the doctor and
themselves. Dr. Richards has successfully treated
nearly 26,000 cases since coming to Australia, and
has permission from at least 10,000 persons to
show their written evidence of his success. All
communications should be addressed
Dr. RICHARDS,
•7 Spring Street
(Off Pitt Street North)
S Y D U" S Y.
Be sure to mention this paper when writing
CONSULTATION FREE.
THE VERY LATEST.
Scrubbing brushes and sausages. —LIFE.


JJUDDART, PARKER & CO.’S LINE
STEAM TO
MELBOURNE and TASMANIA.
From Huddart, Parker’s Wharf.
For Time and Date of Sailing, see daily papers.
The magnificent steamships, BURRUMBEET and
ELINGAMITE, have established an unrivalled reputation
for their speed and accommodation, and their large size
ensures passengers a maximum of comfort. The saloon
cabins are light, airy and very roomy. The dining saloon
is full Width of the ships, also magnificent music room,
with gentlemen’s smokiiig room and splendid promenade
deck. Fore-cabin is on the main deck —lofty and well-
ventilated, perfect sanitation and ample lavatories. Fore-
cabin passengers provided with victuals and rugs. Inspec-
tion invited on days of sailing.
FARES TO MELBOURNE;
Saloon, Single £1 5 0
~ Return ... ... ... 2 5 0
Forecabin ... ... 10 0
FARES to LAUNCESTON :
Saloon, Single £2 5 0
~ Return 315 0
Forecabin ... 100
FARES to HOBART :
Saloon, Single £1 0 0
~ Return 110 0
Return Tickets available lor Six Mouths.
For Freights apply
HUDDAET, PAEKEE & 00-
(Limited).
Office and Wharf: Foot of Margaret Street, Sydney.
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF NEW
ZEALAND, Limited.
SAN FRANCISCO ROYAL MAIL SERVICE.
OVERLAND ROUTE TO ENGLAND VIA SAN
FRANCISCO AND NEW YORK,
Calling at
AUCKLAND and HONOLULU,
Avoiding alike the heat of the Red Sea and the cold
of Cape Horn.
Under Contract with the Postmasters-Gerieral of New
South Wales and New Zealand, the steamers of this line
are appointed to leave Sydney and Auckland for Honolulu
and San Francisco every fourth Wednesday, sailing as
under:—
Each steamer carries a duly qualified surgeon.
These steamers are fitted with Electric Light and with a
Refrigerating Chamber for ship provisions, insuring a
plentiful supply of ice throughout the voyage.
Passengers are booked to San Francisco or through to
European destinations and have at San Francisco choice of
the unrivalled Atlantic Steamship Lines of the Cunard,
Inman, White Star, and other companies.
All first-class passengers are allowed 3501 b. of baggage
to San Francisco and 2501 b. “ Overland ” free of charge.
THROUGH FARE TO LIVERPOOL.
FIRST-CLASS .. .. .. .. £63 to £66.
Time-cards, railway maps, and gu de books, showing all
routes to any point in the United States, may be had on
application
For rates of passage and freight and all other informa-
tion apply at the Company’s Offices, 15 Bridge-street.
FREDK. W. JACKSON, Manager,
JJIREGT SERVICE TO ENGLAND.
PENINSULAR AND ORIENTAL STEAM
NAVIGATION COMPANY.
The Company’s Royal Mail Steamships (under contract
with the Imperial, New South Wales, Victorian, and South
Australian Governments) will be dispatched from their
Wharf, Circular Quay, as under, for LONDON, calling at
Melbourne, Adelaide, Albany, Colombo, Aden, Brindisi,
Malta, Gibraltar, and Plymouth.
o
And henceforth every alternate week.
RESERVED CABINS ON MODERATE TERMS.
SALOON PASSENGERS MAY BREAK THEIR JOURNEY.
The arrangements for SECOND SALOON PASSENGERS
having been thoroughly re-organised, the accommodation
now offered is unsurpassed. Passage-money can he paid
here for passages from England. Liberal concessions made
to families. Passengers, cargo, and parcels are booked
through to India, China, and Japan. Cargo and parcels
will not be received after 3 p.m. on the day previous to-
sailing. For all information apply at the Company’s
Offices, 247 George-street. A. MACLEAN Acting Agent.
ORDDEUTSCHER LLOYD.
IMPERIAL GERMAN MAIL.
Passengers are carried according to the requirements of
the English Passenger Acts of 1885 and 1863.
MONTHLY LINE OF DIRECT STEAMERS
from
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, and ADELAIDE,
to SOUTHAMPTON, ANTWERP, and BREMEN, via
COLOMBO, Aden, Suez, and Genoa,
taking passengers for London,
connecting from PORT SAID by DIRECT MAIL and
PASSENGER LINE to BRINDISI,
will be despatched as follows (if practicable):--
Steamer.
Habsburg
Salier ..
Niirnberg
And thereafter every four weeks.
PASSAGE MONEY from SYDNEY,
£l4 to £57 10s.
RETURN TICKETS, available for NINE and TWELVE
MONTHS, at REDUCED RATES.
Passengers and Cargo are booked through to New York,
via Southampton.
Special facilities arc afforded for bringing out relatives
and friends from the United Kingdom and Europe by pre-
payment of the passage money in Australia.
j.'or FREIGHT, PASSAGE, and all further particulars,
apply to FREDK. BETZ & CO., Aqkx is, 5 O'Connell-street.
JJ" IS TORY OF BOTANY BAY
BRICE-ONE SHILLING.
It is related of a Cooma celebrity that
when asked by a man to let him see the stock-
report in the Sydney Mail he said that he never
took the Mail but only the Fraymans Jurrnell.
“ Thim other papers,” he remarked “are too dam
wan-sided.”
Mr. Justice Day was the great Irish night*
trial man of 1798. Said a rhymer of the period : —
Try men by night ! My lord, forbear,
What will the wicked world now say ?
Methinks I hear the rogues declare
That just'ce is not done by day.
Says the Australian Star—“What if you
fail in business ? Don't sit down and cry about
mishaps, for that will never get you out of debt,
nor buy your children frocks Go to work at
something, eat sparingly, dress moderately, drink
nothing exciting, and, above all, keep a merry
heart, and you'll be up in the world before long.”
If you can’t get work, have nothing to eat, nothing
to wear, nothing to drink what then ? Buy the
Star, we suppose, and drink Toohey’s beer.
A party of tank-sinkers were travelling
along the surveyed boundary-line between N.S. W.
and Queensland, west of Hungerford. Here the
road winds in and out through the mulga scrub,
sometimes in N.S.W., sometimes in Queensland.
One day they had pulled up for dinner under a
shady tree some distance from the line when the
Irishman of the party inquired ; “ Are we on this
side of the line beyant, now, or the other side?”
“We’re on this side now,” was the answer.
“Yerra, look at that, now; I thought it was on
the other side we were.” And he can’t see it to
this day.
An American writer endeavours to prove
that fat, if not the cause, is the token of wickedness.
After dealing with the vices of Louis XVI.,
Henry VIII., and other plump kings, he thus
sums up “ Boss ” Tweed ; —
William Tweed was never a good man after he became
fat. He may have been a well-meaning man, but he was
not what you Ought to call a good man. His example was
not good ; and his fat was the cause of his ruin. He wore
a part of it in his jowls. This gave to his face a shape
that lent itself to the purposes of caricature. When he
landed in Spain he was recognised by his jowls and appre-
hended. He never recovered from that, and presently
died. Had Tweed not been a fat man he might not have
been apprehended; then he might have had time to re-
duce his bulk and repent. In fact, in his last days he did
reduce his bulk and did repent—quite bitterly. Which
seems to show that his fat was the great cause of his going
wrong at all.
Ask for Wolfe’s Schnapps and take no other.
Old-fashioned Jewellery modernised to perfection. De-
signs free. Daiims and Co., King-street Arcade.
Wolfe’s Schnapps—popularity increases yearly.
A British colonel, solicitous about his
men’s welfare, placed a complaint-book in their
institute. The first suggestion made was—
“Wanted, a new colonel.”
The popular liquor—Wolfe’s Schnapps.
A BOON TO HUMANITY.
’Tis food for young and food for old,
It gives new life and vital power,
There’s nothing in the market sold
Like Pemell’s patent Snow-white Flour..
Allcock’s Porous Plasters.
—IN—
Chest, Liver, and Kidney Affections.
St. A r ery an Yi oarage, Gram pound-road,
Cornwall, January, 181)0.
Dear Sir,—I write to inform you that your
“ Allcock’s Porous Plasters ” are excellent —a real
blessing. Whatever I may say, I feel I cannot
praise them sufficiently. I have given away
hundreds amongst the poor and suffering, and I
cannot recall a single instance where they failed
to give relief. They have been used by me for
complaints in the chest, liver, kidneys, and spine,
with marked results, in fact, I know of three
special cases out of many (one of chest, one of
liver, one of kidneys) where the sufferers had been
to the infirmary, tried many doctors, without any
benefit, and were told that nothing more could be
done. I gave them your plasters, and after a fair
trial of them the result was really wonderful.
The sufferer in the chest no longer complains of
weakness, has lest all distressing cough, and is
quite strong. The sufferer from liver complaint
no longer complains of indigestion and pains iu
the side and between the shoulders, but is quite a
different person. The sufferer from kidney com-
plaint no longer lies in bed nine months in the
year in agonies, but is able to get out of doors
every day, and is free from pain. I shall recom-
mend these plasters wherever I go.—With all
good wishes for the New Year, yours very grate-
y ’ James Akthub Kemp, Minister.
ALLCOCK S POROUS PLASTERS are sold
by all Chemists, in various sizes, from 1/1J to 22/G
Hp. sure you get Allcock’s.
HIGHLY NUTRITJVt
oeoa
MAY BE UHI AINtU IN LABELLED IINS Ufi RACKETS THROUGHOUT THE COLONY.
\\
v\
x
v
y
J
9
&
A\/y
w
er
r-
< :■ ■
A Skin Without Blemish
Everywhere a network of sudorific ducts, veins,
and pores, the skin constantly renews itself, and
not only with its ceaseless desquamation, but with
its natural functional action, eliminates all waste,
accumulation and disease. Hence, a skin without
blemish means more than beauty; it means health.
Cuticura, the great skin cure, and Outicura
Soap, an exquiste skin beautifier, prepared from
it, externally, and Cutjcura Resolvent, the now
blood purifier, internally, cure every species of tor-
turing, disfiguring, itching, scaly and pimply
diseases of the skin, scalp and blood, with loss
of hair, from pimples to scrofula.
I have been afflicted for a great many years with
bad blood, which has caused me to have sores on
my body. My hands were in a solid sore for over
a year. I had tried almost everything I could hear
of, but had given up all hopes of ever being cured,
when I saw the advertisement of the Cuticura
Remedies. I used one box of Cuticura, one
bottle of Resolvent, and one cake of Soap, and
am now able to do all my own work.
Mrs. FANNIE STEWART, Staunton, Ind.
Sold everywhere. Price, Cuticura, 50c.; Soap,
25c.; Resolvent, $l. Prepared by the Potter
Drug and Chemical Co., Boston, Mass.
18®“ Send for “How to Cure Skin Diseases,” 64
pages, 50 illustrations, and 100 testimonials.
I have suffered all ray life with skin diseases or
different kinds, and have never found permanent
relief, until, by the advice of a lady friend, I used
your valuable Guticura Remedies. I gave them
a thorough trial, using six bottles of the Guticura
Resolvent, two boxes of Guticura, and seven
cakes of Guticura Soap, and the result was just
what I had been told it would be a complete cure.
BELLE WADE, Richmond, Va.
Reference, GLW. Latimer, Druggist, Richmond,Va.
Have just used your Guticura Remedies on
one of my girls, and found it to be just what it ia
recommended to be. My daughter was all broker
out ou her head and body, and the hair commencec
to come out. Now she is as smooth as ever sh<
was, and she has only used one box of Guticura,
one cake of Guticura Boap, and one bottle of
Guticura Resolvent. I doctored with quite a
number of doctors, but to no avail. lam willing
to make affidavit to the truth of the statement
GEORGE EAST, Macon, Mich.
For the last year I have had a species of itching,
scaly and pimply humors on my face to which I
have applied a great many methods of treatment
without success, and which was speedily and en-
tirely cured by the Guticura Remedies.
Mrs. ISAAC PHELPS, Ravenna, O.
BABY'S
Skin. scalp and hair preserved and beau-
tified by the use of Cuticura Soap.
o
PLES, blackheads, red, rough, chapped and
oily skin prevented by Cuticuba Soap.
Address: R. TOWNS & CO., SYDNEY,
Business Announcements.
Messrs. MAUDE! & CO.,
Florists and Nurserymen,
(Of the Royal Exotic Nursery, Peakhurst,)
Have just Opened their
New Premises at 141 King Street, Sydney,
And are prepared to receive orders for CHOICE
PLANTS, FERNS and CUT FLOWERS, and to
undertake all kinds of
Floral Decorations at Reasonable Prices.
Business Announcements.
JOHN BRIDGE & CO.,
CIRCULAR QUAY, SUSSEX STREET, A
DARLING HARBOUR,
WOOL BROKERS,
Hides, Tallow, Sheepskins, Kangaroo, Bear and
Opossum Skins, Ac,
auctioWeers.
ORA.I3XT SA.LES3VTEM.
Shipping.
COMPAGNIE DES MESSAGERIES MARI*
TIMES.
SYDNEY to LONDON.
OVERLAND FROM MARSEILLES via PARIS.
Steamers under postal contract with the Government of
France, calling at MELBOURNE ADELAIDE, KINO
GEORGE’S SOUND, MAKE, SUEZ, and PORT SAID.
Passengers hooked to KURRACHEE, BOMBAY,
MAURITIUS, and EAST COAST of AFRICA.
The service is.carried on by powerful steamers of 4000
tons and 3000 effective h.p., built expressly for the Aus-
tralian and New Caledonian line, which will be despatched
as follows:
!,, , .'Leave Sydney: Leave Mel-
Steamers. Commander, j n a ,ni. bourne4p.m
SALAZIE ..'Fiaschi .. .. June'S!) June 28
YARRA . JBoulard ’ July 25 July 28
And thenceforward on the 25th of each month.
Rates of passage-money to Marseilles from £2O to £O5,
including table wines and Suez Canal dues on passengers.
RETURN TICKETS issued at the following rates
English interpreters meet through passengers for
London on arrival of steamers at Marseilles, and accom-
pany them to Paris and Calais. N.B.—Passengers’ luggage
conveyed free of cost from Marseilles to London. For
freight, passage, and further particulars apply at the
Company’s Office, 15 Macquarie-place.
A, CONIL, Principal Agent.
WOOL. WOOL.
THE NEW ZEALAND
Loan & Mercantile Agency
COMPANY, LIMITED.
BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Capital, £4,500,000 ... Reserve, £270,000
Wool Season, 1888*89*
Regular Sales of Wool Held Throughout the
Season.
rpHE greatest care bestowed on the Valuation and the
J- Displaying and Protecting all Wools entrusted to
the Company for sale, whether from large or small clips.
{gp— Growers Advised and Consulted with before Sales
of their Clips are made.
Liberal Cash Advances, where desired, on Wool lieu
of Ensuing Clip, and on Wool and other Produce, whether
for sale in Sydney or shipment to London.
Auction Sales of Sheep Skins, Marsupial
Skins, Hides, Tallow, &c., Held Regularly.
Every Information Supplied on Application.
G. S. CAMPBELL, Manager.
SYDNEY WOOL & GRAIN WAREHOUSES
Bridge and Loftus Streets.


A Sydney man went out for a walk with a ]
barmaid. Stealthily his wife followed and threw
vitriol in the girl’s face, burning out one eye and
otherwise horribly disfiguring her for life. The
wife is arrested, but when the case comes to court
the miserable girl, probably under “influence,”
says she has no evidence to offer, and so the prose-
cution fails. What is the use of an Attorney-.;
General ? Is a man to have his best girl’s eyes put
out by his wife ?
Hibbert Newton, an old-time Melbourne
barrister, is dead, after lasting 20 years longer
than anyone expected. He used to divide the
County Court business with Bindon, he of the
parroty nose, who, though a judge, used to shoot
birds on Sundays. After them, the County Court
was run by G. P. Smith and Quinlan. Then by
Hood and Frank Duffy. Now the junior Bar is
scrimmaging.
There is little doubt that Barry, executed
at Rockhampton the other day for murder, was an
irresponsible man. Months before he committed
the homicide a local medical man of high repute
in his profession found it necessary to inform him
that ere long he would lose his eyesight through
brain-trouble. Dr. Brown continues to most em-
phatically state on his honour as a medical man
that Barry was in all human probability irrespon-
sible under excitement. Under those circumstances
the execution must be regarded as a far worse
crime than the murder.
Wolfe’s Schnapps has no rival.
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
Write for plans £lO Building sites, Perth,
Western Australia. Intercolonial Investment
Company, Limited, 96 Bathurst-street, Sydney.
As an anodyne expectorant, Ayer’s Cherry
Pectoral is prompt in its action. It checks the
advance of disease, allays all tendency to inflam-
mation and consumption, and speedily restores
health to the afflicted.
Wolfe’s Schnapps—a mild stimulant.
Two big Mount Morgan men have taken
mansions in the aristocratic portions of London.
D’Arcy, the Rockhampton attorney, who is said
to be drawing £40,000 a month, has taken Sir
Watkin Wynne’s house in St. James’-square, and
joined that hotbed of high Toryism, the Carlton
Club. Mr. A. W. Robertson, of Cobb and Co.,
is the other candidate for “ society.”
Advise your friends to drink Wolfe’s Schnapps.
The Age says of “The Land of Kangaroos
and Gold Mines,” a book written by our late
visitor, Oscar Comettant, that it is the worst book
ever written about Australia—that it is a bad
book, as dirty as ditch-water, written by a salacious
old man, and that it sincerely trusts that French-
men of his class will keep out of the country in
future.
A pure spirit—Wolfe’s Schnapps.
Use Bathos Baking Powder.
Gov. Kintore grows less and less popular
with his Ministers. When he first arrived he made
many absurd innovations as to the regulation of
public business, and he is a by no means loveable
character when at work. It can be said with
certainty, now the Kintores have been fairly
sampled, that they will leave very few genuine
friends behind them when they quit Adelaide.
Wolfe’s Schnapps should be in every house.
The original genuine article—Wolfe’s Schnapps.
Building Sites, City of Perth, W. A. Plans
Intercolonial Investment Co., Limited, 96 Bathurst
street, Sydney.
If out of sorts try Wolfe’s Schnapps.
Cabman Hill, who found in his vehicle
£BOO in notes, &c., and handed it back to the
owner, has been rewarded with £l. Honesty
thus pays a dividend of say a third of a penny in
the £.
Wolfe’s Schnapps—for the liver and kidneys.
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
Reliable Watch Repairs. Daiims & Co., King-st. Arcade
T>
R
T -
M
K
o
W'
JN
k
8
~
U
f
.
DEUSSA 8. PHILIPS
3a*s Barmck Street.
IVTEW SOUTH WALES FLOODS RELIEF
J3l FUND.
The Central Committee of the New South Wales
.Floods Relief Fund, having relieved cases of tem-
porary distress in Sydney, and having now agreed
on the nature of the losses for which compensation
is to be given, are desirous that the subscribed
funds should be distributed as speedily as possible
amongst the sufferers.
With this object in view, the Central Committee
respectfully asks Magistrates or other residents in
all the flooded districts of New South Wales to
have Committees appointed to inquire into the
losses sustained; and where no Committee has
been appointed, the Central Committee requests
Police and other Magistrates to kindly undertake
this duty ; and on their notifying their acceptance
of the position, printed forms for collecting in-
formation as to losses sustained will be imme-
diately forwarded.
In the event of claimants being unable (from
illness, distance or any special cause) to present
their claims to the local Committees or Magis-
trates, they may forward such claims direct to the
Central Committee in Sydney.
T. A. DIBBS
J. BROOMFIELD
A. FORSYTH
}
Hon. Treasurers.
JOHN YOUNG
EDWARD J. H. KNAPP
Hon.
Secs.
Offices ; Town Hall.
Sydney, June 9, 1890,
Miscellaneous.
Arbor Vitas,
The Great Life Remedy & Tonic Inviyorator,
IS the Best and Only Medicine which shows a
good result from the moment you take the
first dose. It acts on the blood like a charm, and
tones the internal secretions to healthy action,
restores strength to the stomach, and enables it to
perform its functions ; and for regulating the liver
and kidneys it has no equal. Price 4s. per
package. Also the Great Cure for Gatari*li and
Influenza—the Arbor Vitse Oil, 2s. 6d. per
bottle. Sold by all Storekeepers and Druggists.
Sole Agents for New South Wales—
Dan Sntlierland. & 00.
Wholesale and Retail Tobacconists,
84 King Street, Newtown, SYDNEY.
Eye - Siglrt Restored.
WHY SUFFER ! We send gauge for testing sight,
a treatise on “ Vision,” and all information free. Spec-
tacles of every description from Is.; Pebbles from ss.
Pilot Field Glass, clear definition five miles, with case.
“Liver” Telescope, with astronomical glass, clear
six miles, 21s. Good going Silver Watches, 255.,
nicklo, 12s. 6d., 15s. and 205., guaranteed two years.
W. E. Toose, Optician, 418 George-street, Sydney. |
Awarded Nine Medals at various Exhibitions |
TW S
R OVA L
EDINBURGH
CASTLE
Specialßesebve ••
* A A
OLD
SCOTCHWHISk Y
•*T
HE
ROYAL,
Edinburgh Castle
WHISKY.
*- # *
Special Reserve.
In Square Bottles.
This Whisky was
selected by our Gene-
ral Manager, Mr. Jas.
Cullen, during his
recent visit to Scot-
land, and through its
purity, age and mag-
nificent bouquet, has
already secured the
premier position in the
market. In cases, qrs-.
and octaves. To be
had Duty Paid from
any of the Wholesale
Wine and Spirit Mer-
chants and Distribu-
ting Houses, and in
Bond only from the
SOLE AGENTS,
William Campbell & Co., Limited,
58 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
A POSITIVE CURE.
R BOHANNAN’S Curative Remedies for all Private,
Nervous, and Special Complaints. Always reliable.
Descriptive chart sent, sealed, for two stamps. Address
Hotel Metropole Pharmacy, Phillip-street, Sydney,
N.S.W.
D
Prospectus.
TO SHEARERS, STATION HANDS
FARM HANDS, LABOURERS, ROUSE-
ABOUTS, AND BUSHMEN GENERALLY
OE ALL COLONIES.
The Xjand, Trade,
—AND—
Labour Union of Australia
Has been established* Its objects are :
1. To unite all the above classes in one body,
but with respect to shearers it is intended to
apply to them as station hands, which very
many of them often are.
2. To raise wages, to obtain better tucker, and
men’s huts being supplied.
3. Generally to advocate the interests of its mem-
bers. The strength of the Union will during
next general shearing be put forth in support
of the above objects. That the Union is a
fighting one and bona-fide is proved in the
strike against the Messrs. Chaffey Bros.,
Limited. Men, come and join us ! Thougli
only lately started we have proved the meta.
we are made of as the public are aware from 1
the late reports in the Press.
Entrance Fee and Annual Subscription ss.
A Strong and honed Committee of Manage-
ment are at the head of affairs.
Committee of Management: Chairman, Thomas Allen ;
Vice-Chairman, James Laverty; Messrs. Kelly, Davis,
Constance, Hood, Saunders, CTmvood, Black, Meldrum,
Thompson, Balsburv, Allen, Fears, and Walton. Trea-
surers: Messrs: MTileod, Mills and Wilcock. Trustees:
Not yet appointed. Aditors ; Messrs. Yule (of Williams
and 'Yule, Storekeepers), and Fred. Fleetwood, Land
Agent and Accountant. Bankers ; The National Bank of
Australasia.
WE HAVE MONEY AND GEIT,
SS" After this year both the entrance fee and
annual subscription will be largely increased,
but members joining now it is expected will only
hereafter have to pay the annual subscription of
2s. 6d , as they will have the fighting to do at the
first start off.
Prospectus, Members’ List, Tickets, etc., upon
application to the undersigned, by letter or
personally.
Post Office Orders to be made payable to—
ARTHUR TREMAYNE,
Secretary and Manager,
Offices, Langtree Avenue Hall,
Mildura, Victoria.
Agents in different towns, at sheds, and travel-
ing, will be at once appointed. Business people
in all districts required to act as agents on usual
terms of commission. Apply with references as
above.
JOHN BUCK H A M,
449 ELIZABETH STREET, MELBOURNE.
TENT, Tarpaulin, and Waterproof Covei
Manufacturer. Horse Rugs, Loin Covers,
Oilskin Coats, Cab Aprons, Marquees (with or
without flooring and flags) for sale or hire.
JOHN BUCK HAM, MELBOURNE.
Oldest established house in the trade.
[When ordering please mention this paper.]
SELF-MANAGEMENT.
consult DR- PERRY, M.R.C.S., L.S.A
•t
(REGISTERED BY THE MEDICAL BOARD OF NEW SOUTH WALES),
Late House Surgeon to the Great Northern Hospital, Caledonian Road, London,
SPECIALIST in the Treatment of Diseases of the
Reproductive Organs and Nervous Complaints.
It is well known that a large portion of the Debilita-
ting Nervous Affections from which the present generation
suffer result from a Morbid Condition of the Reproduc-
tive Organs , and although it may be considered “infra.
dig." for a
Duly QualiM Medical Practitioner
to advertise, yet it is only by this means that those silent
sufferers from these most distressing diseases can ascertain
which Duly Qualified Practitioner makes these Private and
Nervous Diseases a Speciality.
Patients suffering from these diseases require not only
U P dicll but Psychological Treatment. They require kindly
and useful advice as to SELF-MANAGEMENT, etc., in a
variety of details, which only those practitioners who have
made the subject a special study are able to give.
o
JDr. !PEIES!!E3 , 3r
Will be happy to advise persons suffering from these
diseases, and as, in many cases,
Nothing hut the observance of a few simple directions
as to Self-Management
is required to place the patient in a healthy state, all who
are in any way affected should consult him, and thus have
the benefit of his advice and experience.
Ct).
Diabetes successfully treated by a totally new
method of Cutaneous Medication.
Tumours also specially treated by successful method.
ALL CASES GUARANTEED.
HOTJIR-S :
From 10 a.m. to 4 p.m each week day, and from 7 to 9 p.m on Tuesday and Saturday evenings.
ah Consultations, either by Letter or Personally, ABSOLUTELY FREE.
Note address: Elmsley House, 151 Eli2abe th Sydney.


V t’l'-
- -O
*S>
dH
I
J
**5ml
yip
rs
7 *
: V\
n
s;
&
r\
1*
/
-■- .
*
i; ■
THE BEST
BEVERAGE
FOR
CHILDREN
Absolutely fure.
CADBURY’S COCOA is closely allied to
milk in the large proportion of flesh-forming and
strength-sustaining elements that it contains. It is pre-
pared on the principle of excluding the superabundance
of fatty indigestible matter with which Cocoa abounds
—supplying a refined thin infusion of absolutely pure
Cocoa, exhilarating and refreshing, for Breakfast, Lun-
cheon, Tea or Supper, giving staying power and im-
parting new life and vigour to growing children, and
those of delicate constitutions.
"Hafe you der Bendadoyke?”
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
A quaint character was “The Ancient,”
who managed a large sheep-station in Northern
Queensland for a Sydney bank some twenty years
ago. His proper name was Dousmann, and how
ho got the other I don’t know, but Dousmann was
the healthiest name for anyone except his most
intimate friends to call him by. He was supposed
to be a German, but might have been anything
else, for he spoke in many tongues, only the well
of hie English was more distinctly defiled by the
German than by any other accent. Everybody
knew him, and almost everybody liked him; all
the women did, and he thoroughly appreciated
their little weakness. He was a capital judge of
stock with a keen eye for a good horse, and what
more would you have for a pedestal on which to
erect the statue of a station manager of about forty
years of age, with a fairly comprehensive know-
ledge of the world and a decidedly magenta,
though presentable, appearance, which sometimes
landed him on the very verge of conceit ?
Eqr about two hours one smoking hot November
evening the Ancient sat on his verandah yarning
with the district surveyor, who never passed Bull-
ford Downs station without camping there for the
night, if he could help it. The Ancient was a con-
sumptive reader, and books were the theme
“By the way, Ancient, of course you have read
Colenso’s ‘ Pentateuch
“Veil, I haf not: but I like to. Can I get him
in der downship ?”
“ I scarcely think so. But I have a copy I can
lend you. ”
“Dank yon, no. I like to haf him mineself. I
goom down to der port at Grismas, und if I doan’d
get him at der shtore, den I send to Brisbane.”
* * #
A week before Christmas the Ancient
turned up in town as promised. He met his
friend, the surveyor, who had by this time for-
gotten all about the “Pentateuch” episode, and
after a “swizzle” of Pleystowe rum and Angos-
tura bitters, they walked together to Marks and
Weston's store.
“Good morning, Mr. Dousmann,” said the
latter; “we haven’t had the pleasure of seeing you
in town for a long time. What can we do for
you ?”
“ Dank you ;de Measure is mudual; but I only
gome to der port ven I so require id. Haf you
any bard brick ? Yat is der brice ?”
“Bath-brick? Oh, yes ! Sixpence each.”
“ Dank you. Ido not require some bard brick
at sixpence. Vat brice do you now sharge for
bickles? Den shilling? Yell you can send dree
cases. Und kaligo? Yes. Und Aollovay bills?
Y es. ”
And so on through a long list of station neces-
saries, all ordered after more or less haggling as to
price, for the Ancient was a careful buyer, and
one not to be easily “had” in matters of detail con-
nected with any sort of commercial transaction.
And presently the lengthy memorandum of wants
was exhausted, and he and his friend were half-
way across the street on their way to dinner, when
ho suddenly exclaimed :
“Led us go pack. I haf forgodden somedings.”
Re-entering the store, they were met in the door-
way by the still smiling junior partner. To him
the Ancient :
“ I did forket as I dit not write id in der lisht.
Haf you der Bendadoyke?”
** The what, Mr. Dousmann ? I beg your par*
don, but I didn’t quite catch what you said.”
“ Der Bendadoyke!”
“Oh! the Bendadoyke! Let me see.” And
with a hopelessly puzzled expression of counten-
ance he rapidly surveyed all the shelves in the es-
tablishment from floor to ceiling. For it was the
proudest boast of that firm that they kept every
article in stock wherewith to supply, on the
shortest notice, all requisites for the varied in-
dustries of the district. In vain did he try to get
a clue to the mystery from the Ancient’s com-
panion, who inwardly chuckled, and with diffi-
culty preserved an outward gravity. The Ancient’s
patience was well-nigh exhausted as he again
asked :—•
“Yell, haf you got der Bendadoyke? Igo
direckly to haf mine tinner.”
And then a happy inspiration seized the mer-
chant. Still ranging his eye over the shelves filled
with the miscellaneous gathering of a country
store, as though desperately hoping that he might
see the end of something sticking out which could
be sold as a veritable Bendadoyke, he said slowly
and thoughtfully, after the manner of a man whose
daily practice it was to sell Bendadoykes by the
drayload :
“ Well, no; I’m afraid we haven’t any left. The
last were sold, I think, yesterday. But we have a
shipment of them now in the Black Swan, which
left Brisbane last Thursday ! ”
“Oh ! Haf you ? Den I vait oondil dey are
lantit. Und I dake von hoondert dozen, vich I
again sell to de first tarn plockhet who vill not at
de same dime know dat der Bendadoyke vas not
Amerigan dinned fish, also breserved abbles,
und kanagga’s drowsers, und jham, nnd bumgins,
und everydings vat you haf got in der tam
shtore!”
Then turning to his companion :—“ Und now
ve go nnd haf anoder trink und some tinner. Vat
der teufel you haf got do laugh at, eh ? You are
a tam pick, und I knock you in de eye vid dis
shtick if you make some shokes aboud dis madder.
Gome now, und ve haf some zherry und pitters.”
THE BUNYIP.
Johannesburg (South Africa) barmaids,
according to a local paper, get from £2O to £.30 a
month.
On the day the next Franco-German war
is declared, there will be, on the German side, in
less than a week, a little over 1,400,000 men con-
centrated on the frontier at the points fixed by the
general staff. The cars are ready, and the coal
for the railroad was laid in long ago. Five days
after, 800,000 men will form the second line.
Finally, there will be the Landsturm, with about
1,400,000 on the first call.
It is only 25 years since bushranger
Morgan was slain by a cool station-hand per
medium of a bullet fired from a smooth-bore fowl-
ing-piece from a distance of 111 yards; yet now
there is a controversy as to the manner of the
outlaw’s death; and five people, professing to know
all about the matter, write to a morning paper all
on the same day to set the question at rest. Yet
they are all more or less astray as to the facts.
How suggestive this is as to the value of history,
which in the future will, we suppose, be principally
compiled from daily papers, and so on ! The
Morgan story is haggled over after a quarter of a
century, and yet the world is calmly expected to
swallow as unadulterated gospel the story of
Jonah and the whale !
The Stewards’ Decision to be Final.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
What is the use of stewards, whose dignity and
justice is to be cavilled at ? There is no nonsense
about the secretary, judge, and committee of the
Geebung Swamp Racing Club. It is duly regis-
tered as a race-meeting, and in my account of the
races you will learn who are the stewards, &c.,
and perhaps pick up a wrinkle also. This tale is
dedicated to the stewards of the South Sydbourne-
land Suburban race meetings.
Geebung Swamp is a sheep-station belonging to
someone who is dead —that is, to the executors of
the deceased Mr. MacShan. There is a race
meeting every shearing, and though the prizes are
not large, everyone gives a little (just as little as
he decently can) to the fund. Woman suffrage
obtains here, for Mrs. MacShan is one of the
stewards. She is likewise secretary, treasurer,
and judge. One of the sons is starter, clerk of the
course, and collector (he is over the shearing-
board). A son-in-law is drummer for the neigh-
bouring stations and is also a steward, which shows
there is no partiality, favour, or affection to be
shown to the Geebung folks. Two boHa-fidc-ahqaver-
dummy-selectors and the schoolmaster (also a
dummy) complete the list of the committee.
Hawkers are allowed to camp at the station, and
strolling players to perform if they give half-a-sov.
or so to the races. The neighbouring publicans
subscribe well and have even been known to give
a prize of £2 for horses ridden by ladies ; but tliis
fell into disuse because one has not time to be in
the judge’s box and on a flying steed at the same
moment.
There is beginning to be a monotony about the
largest stake of £lO for shearers’ horses. One of
the dummy stewards always wins with a horse he
buys the day before the race and sells next day.
There is also a sameness about the Shorts, a
three-quartev-mile spin. Four years in succession
has this been won by Mr. John MacShan’s b.g.
Patchup, an animal that only gallops once a
year, and then makes good time for six furlongs.
Nothing is so unsatisfactory as a disputed
decision, but this cannot well occur, as
might be seen from last year’s Open Handicap.
Spectators who had backed my horse, Vanguard,
thought that they had won by a length or so. I
could have made it ten lengths. But the judge
gave it a dead heat with her son’s mare, Mag-
dalen; so we divided, the owner of the mare
showing reluctance to run off. Then a very
interesting race took place. It was for a lady’s
bracelet, presented by the bachelors. Honestly it
was worth £7, although it was by no mean's a
modern work of art. Slanderers say' that they had
seen it for years at the race ball. At any rate, it
was no Brummagem stuff. The horses had to be
nominated by ladies. I always imagined my old
woman to be a perfect aristocrat, and therefore I
did not take her over to the spree at Geebung in
case the champagne was not iced to her liking.
Mrs. MacShan asked me “ Where was Mrs. W. ?”
I replied, “ Indisposed.” “Oh T said she, “such
a P'ty, Mr. W., for we have decided that no horse
can run for the bracelet unless the nominator
bo present.” I then said that I expected
the entrance-money of my wife’s hack, old Dis-
covery, to be returned; but, like the “verbum
egressum,” money disbursed cannot return. I was
leaving in disgust when the old lady offered to
nominate for me, but wanted the prize if the old
horse won. I could have ridden over her for the
cheek of the thing, and for spite allowed a Httla
girl to nominate. Discovery won by five lengths,
and the girl got the bracelet. I then found out
that she was the youngest Miss MacShan. And
now to the mother, sons and others at Geebung bo
all honour and glory for their cuteness, now alnd
forevermore as long as people stand it. Amen
SCOTTY THE WRINKLES.
George Lewis, the London solicitor, tells a
story of a lady of quality who consulted him about
obtaining a divorce. He told her there were “no
just grounds.” “Then, if you can't get me a
divorce from him, ’ exclaimed the disappointed
dame, “111 poison him ; and, if there’s justice in
the land, you’ll be hanged for the murder.”
The Melbourne Hunt treated the city to a
circus procession on a recent Saturday, escorting
two youngish ladies in fashionable shortcut habits.
Where are Hopetoun and his hunters ? Those
magnificent imported beasts must have eaten their
aristocratic heads off. And what has become of
his whole glorious establishment ? Where are the
thirty-three flunkeys? The whole lot seems to
have been packing-cased up “ home ’’ again, while
Eauntleroy is saving up for his return passage.
Melbourne Age obituary chant :
Cold is the place We have laid you to rest,
Cold is the sod we have heaped on your breast.
Art thou in heaven, or where can you be?
Henry, dear Henry, we still think of thee.
There isn’t much of “ the sure and certain hope ”
business about this, and the allusion to the coolth
is rather unkind to the deceased Henry if there is
any reason for the survivors’ doubt as to his
destination. The “In Memoriam ” verse as a
medium for sticking the stiletto into a dead mi’s
reputation is increasingly popular.
The S.A. Register proprietors have been
“done bad.” The Hansard reporting and printing
contract has for a long time been in the hands of the
opposition paper, the Advertiser ; but as that
journal was not satisfied with the previous terms,
the proprietors tendered this time considerably
higher, The Register, however, not anticipating
this, tendered very much lower than its con-
temporary; and now the proprietors find that they
would have got the contract even if they had
almost doubled the price. Consequently the
proprietors have been spending their time weep-
ing upon each other’s necks.
A respectable Russian lady is in some
slight trouble through marrying sixteen husbands
in five years. She only stayed a few weeks with
each of them, and cleaned them out so effectually
that hardly one of the crowd could master enough
clothes to go in pursuit. Somewhere about a
month after the wedding-day the policeman on the
beat would be aroused by the yells of a distracted
husband addressing him from a window and asking
him for heaven’s sake to get him a suit of clothes
from the benevolent asylum so that he could go
round and borrow some money from his friends,
and when the intelligent officer entered by the
window he generally found that the only things
in all i he building were a stuffed cat and a chromo-
graph representing Abraham offering up Isaac.
Five years of this work left the lady with a fortune
of £25,000, and then, just as she was going to
get married for the seventeenth time, and be a
devoted wife and mother on the strength of this
little accumulation, the eleventh husband raised
enough money from his aunt to go im pursuit and
the industry burst.


OJ
FAIR WHITE HANDS.
BRIGHT CLEAR COMPLEXION.
SOFT HEALTHFUL SKIN.
FOE
TOILET & NURSERY.
■ - 4) •
Specially Prepared for the delicate skin of Ladies and Children and
others sensitive to the weather (winter or summer). Redness,
Roughness and Chapping prevented.
)••(
TESTIMOITIALS :
Mrs. LANGTRY.
“I have much pleasure in stating that I have
used your Soap for some time, and prefer it to any
other. ”
(Signed) LILLIE LANGTRY.
Miss MARY ANDERSON.
“ I have used it two years with the greatest
satisfaction, for I find it the very best.”
(Signed) MARY ANDERSON.
Mdme. MARIE ROZE MAPLESON,
“For preserving the complexion, keeping the
skin soft, free from redness and roughness, and
the hands in nice condition, it is the finest Soap
in the world.
(Signed) MARIE ROZE.
Mdme. ADELINA PATTI.
“ I have found it matchless for the hands and
complexion. ”
(Signed) ADELINA PATTI.
Rev. H. WARD BEECHER.
“ If cleanliness is next to godliness, soap must
be considered as a means of grace, and a clergy-
man who recommends moral things should be
willing to recommend soap. lam told that my
commendation of Pears’ Soap lias opened for it
a large sale in the United States. I am willing
to stand by every word in favour of it that I ever
uttered. A man must be fastidious indeed who
is not satisfied with it.”
(Si;mcd) HENRY WARD BEECHER.
Sir ERASMUS WILSON. F.R.S,
(Late President of the Royal College of Surgeons of
England.)
Writes in the Journal of Cutaneous Medicine :
“The use of a good soap is certainly calculated
to preserve the skin in health, to maintain its
complexion and tone, and prevent its falling into
wrinkles . . . PEARS is a name engraven on
the memory of the oldest inhabitant; and Pears’
Transparent Soap is an article of the nicest and
most careful manufacture, and one of the most
refreshing and agreeable of balms for the skin.”
m
Ml
&
iVg
&
9
L]
6
%
r
%
i
§
22
Mrs. Anna Longshore Potts, the brainy
, ~ , . . . . „
and well-advertised lady-doctor, has been giving
her Australian impressions to Yankee inter
viewers. She finds the Republic inevitable,
Women are very badly off in Australian cities.
-r, • , • ■ c , . ■ ~ ■ , -. *
Drinking is awful-Amenea nothing _ to it. A
thousand ladies would consult her m a week,
When she recommended young ones to drink
water, they would ask, “ What’s water?” Young
men take their girls in for a glass of wine or beer,
. , ~ . ■ ,
just the same as young A ankees take theirs foi
ice cream. Australian women walk too much,
walk their legs off, then the doctor orders
more walking, and they walk into the tomb-
vr . ta a A.. • , . .. , , r
Mrs. Doctor Potts, m regard to the Australian
woman-drunkenness question, has evidently been
right behind the scenes. Anybody familiar with
the morning aspect of the Australian fashionable
restaurants, where women of all grades and ages
, ... , ,
fill themselves up with spirits, is inclined to shud.
der even when he sees a decent woman sip a mere
glass of wine. The shocking prevalence of feminine
inebriety is “all along of” the ancient de-
i . ' ° „ . .
usion that women want support in Lie snape
at first of comparatively innocent beer, and after-
wards of double-brandies and soda at 10.30 a.m.
XT , , . , . . ,
Fleniy George, who started out to show
the world howto abolish poverty, completed his
Sydney career by dining with millionaire Burde-
kin and a select Tory party. George’s original
, , ; , ~ . ~P
scheme was to remove poverty by collaring Mayor
Burdekin’s land-—worth, say £OO,OOO to £lOO,OOO a
year—for the benefit of the landle-s crowd who
“doss” in the Domain; then he cramped him-
self into the lesser limits of the sTngle-tax ; now
v ®
he poses as the convenient tool of the N.S.W.
Foreign-trade gang. Facilis descensus!
The newest thing in gentlemen’s garments
, °. °
says a candid exchange, is a scratching pocket
in a shirt. This is found of the utmost con.
venience at certain theatres when that lively
insect which afflicts prince and pauper alike is
, ~ x> , . ,
most active. But, alas . m all those devices for
the comfort of man, the fair sex is ever omitted,
They wear bifurcated garments and tilings, but
no philanthropist, male or female, has considered
.I, „ i .
the agon es they must suffer when subjected to
the attacks of tiie remorseless flea. A man has a
hundred opportunities to scratch to a lady’s one-
He can drop the case of his lorarnette. and when
stooping to pick it up, lunge at the demon which
• a , • ,• „ ..
" ll!l I eace ' ,1c can go out between
the acts, and flay himself if he is so disposed. But
poor, patient woman must sit, and smile and bear
it all. A sharp slap under pretext of a jumping
pain is all that etiquette permits her, and as she
well knows, this has no effect upon a good, high-
stepping flea, but, warning him that his time is
short, incites him to fresh and renewed effort,
Let something be done in the scratching pocket
line for the ladies, in the interest of our common
humanity.
“Mamre” Haimes has played his last
game of euchre—unless .he S ai„‘,a 4ilo .. ay the
waits between the parts of the celestial cantatas
with a little “cut-throat. Captain Jack- was
fcypical squatter of the Western (Vic.) sporting
school. He was, in fact, almost the solitary sur-
vivor of the class of graziers which included the
Chirnsides, the Murrays, the Finlays, the Calverts,
the Wares, and the younger Robertsons—men who
to()k mor ; de%ht J in fe br eeding a speedy filly
than even in scoring a win at the Geelong,
Ballarat, or Camperdovvn shows against the
squatters of the “unco guid” sort those who,
11 k « thf Cummings, Dennises, Austins, Dowlings
and Thomsons, were accustomed to devote almost
ag mucb thought to the culture of their souls as
they did to the improvement of their flocks,
Haimes, going by all the moralists, ought to
have died in the Benevolent Asylum, and have
been tucked into his last little bed by the
, undertak er, for he flung the pipped
cu bes, chucked the pretty girls under the
chin and kissed them above it, backed horses and
ran’em, believed champagne to be a panacea for
e 7 ei T ] "P rl 7’ arK v dl B JI O c V d everything that he
shouldn t have done if he desired to gather the
do u arS- But j n S pite of all his enjoyment of
life—perhaps, indeed, because of it—he grew
rich, and his bank-book swelled as rapidly
as . dld ever tdAt of any of his Presbyterian
neighbours who never sent a steer or an
ewe. to Fisken’s yards without specially com-
mitting the animal to the care of “Pro-vee-
dunse.” The lord of Mamre, was that rare being
now-a-days, as good a hater as he was a friend,
and as he never overlooked a civility or left a ser-
vice unacknowledged, so did he never forget dr
forgive an insult or an injury. In the incendiary
B( r ri 7 da P that r exasperating (and aspir-
ating) tribune of the people carried his
toro £ to Cohic. After the meeting, Berry
proceeded to the commercial-room of Willis’
Hotel, where, amongst others, Captain Haimes
was sitting. One of the official nobodies who used
hook onto Berry’s coat-buttons sought to intro-
duee the Pirron-Yallock squatter and the
politician whose avowed mission of the moment
was to dynamite the squatting interest out
existence. Berry knew Haimes of course,
and had more than once given the Captain
receipts for “ Tiser subs.” across his Geelong
counter, but he let his parasite utter, with bated
and whiskied breath, the stupid formula. “Mr.
Sahara Berry-Capta.u Haimes.” “My good
man. said Haimes, “ I don t require an mtroduc-
tion to my newspaper agent!” And for once the
usually glib tongue of the man who subsequently
fell from the pinnacle of democratic leadership to
the degradation of a K.C.M.G.-ship failed to pro-
ject an appropriate answer. The Captain at one
J time U J X eclare thac he had neve [, made a bad
bargain, but a sly neighbouring farmer completely
broke his boast up. Among Captain Haimes’
belongings was a property on which he grazed a
considerable number of “grumphies,” and these
lie used to tallv constantly. Ihe farmer alluded to
knew of this, and, after a tallying had been accom-
plished, he as quietly as possible abstracted seven
of the grunters, which, with an outcast of his own,
he offered next day at a neighbouring market. The
Captain was on hand, sales were dull, and he
snapped two “bargains,” among them being the
eight p'gs, which he got for five shillings less than
they were worth. In high feather he had them
carted home, and when next he “tallied” up—
and found that his store was only increased by
on 6) and a “ specimen”—the astute old fellow
‘‘tumbled” and unavailmgly tried to keep the
“' lerW ” dS
Distichs.
(FROM HERE AND THERE.)
Wine is like rain, which, when falling on mire but makes
it the fouler,
But when it strikes the good soil, wakes it to beauty and
bloom.
Maidens ! why should you worry in choosing whom you
shall marry ?
Choose whom you may, you will find you have got some-
body else.
Break not the rose ; its fragrance and beauty are surely
sufficient;
Resting contented with these, never a thorn shall yon
feel.
Unto each man comes a day when his favourite sins ail
forsake him,
And he complacently thinks he has forsaken his sins.
Who would succeed in the world should be wise in the use
of his pronouns ;
Utter the You twenty, times where you once utter
the I.
True luck consists not in holding the best of the cards at
the table ;
Luckiest he who knows just when to rise and go home.
Make all good men your well-wishers ; and then, in the
years’ steady sifting
Some of them grow into friends. Friends are the sun-
shine of life.
Try not to beat back the current, yet be not drowned in
its waters;
Speak with the speech of the world, think with the
thoughts of the few.
Pleasant enough it is to hear the world speak of your
virtues:
But in your secret heart, ’tis of your faults you are
proud.
Be not too anxious to gain your next-door neighbour's
approval;
Live your own life, and let him strive your approval to
gain.
JOHN HAY IN MAY SCRIBNER'S.
In Melbourne they call Private Secretary
Wallington, of the boldly outlined nose, “Colonel”
Wallington. He must have joined the Salvation
Harmy after leaving Lord Carington.
Melbourne advt. ;
BILLY Goat wanted for few days. State price, X.Y.Z.,
Windsor P.O.
X.Y.Z. probably wants to treat the Smelbourne
atmosphere on the similia sirnilibus principle.
A legend is in circulation at Rome to the
effect that when Leo XIII. departs from his pre-
sent sphere of usefulness a heavenly flame will
descend on the head of the individual whom
Providence has selected as his successor, and thus
prevent any doubts that might otherwise arise. In
consequence of this report we wish to point out
that if the chosen vessel happens to be completely
bald he may be led to assume an attitude of sur-
prise when a flame comes down on a completely
unprotected part of him, and may even be induced
to use language which will end in him being fined
40s. and costs. The legend further adds that the
Dominicans expect one of their number to be
elected, because on their crest appears a sketch of
a dog carrying a burning torch which they hold is
the heavenly flame alluded to. Although divine
revelations do not generally arrive per dog we will
offer no objections to the proposed arrangement,
but supposing the torch burns down a bit further
before the election comes off and the dog feels
called upon to let go
Notice to Artistic and Literary Contributors
Strictly Original matter contributed to Tub Bulletin
will be paid for. The Editor will be glad to receive and
consider contributions as under : —-
1. Original humorous' or pMlitical matter, illustrated or
otherwise. (Drawings must he made inclean lines
of Indian ink on white paper or Bristol-board.)
■S. Unpublished anecdotes of living celebrities, or people
who ought to be celebrated.
3. Humorous poems (from eight to forty-eight lines pre-
ferred).
h. Serious poems, of similar or greater length, especially
those suitable for pictorial illustration.
5. Short Australian or other stories, up to, say, 3000
words. About half that length, or even less, will
he preferred.
All Contributions must be Written Legibly, on One
Side Only of the ‘paper, and folded, not rolled. The
name and address of the writer must appear, in all
cases, on the MS. itself, and not merely on an accompany-
ing letter or paper. The Proprietors do not hold them-
selves responsible for Dejected Contributions; but, if
accompanied by a stamped and addressed envelope or
wrapper, every effort will he made to return them.
The Editor does not undertake to enter into any
correspondence respecting rejected Manuscripts.
Melbourne Democratic Freetrade Associa-
tion is going to hold a great meeting in the Town
Hall, for converted bootmakers, carpenters, brick-
layers, ironworkers, miners, tinsmiths, and so on,
who are invited to bring their boys, and show how
they have been demoralized through the work
provided by Protection.
“ The sale of Miss Darker, of Phila-
delphia, to Count Nnsenheira, of Bavaria, was
successfully concluded on fit. Paul’s
Episcopal Church was gorgeously fitted up for the
market-place. The consummation of this bargain
gives the lady an assured social position. Wealth
will do much for an American girl; beauty and
wit will.do their share, but she can never really
reach the p nnacle of distinction until she has
become the head or a European harem. The new
Duchess of Marlborough was beautiful, accom-
plished and rich when she was Mrs. Hammersley.
She was prima inter pares , but before she could
become prima without any American pares
she had to stain her character by an un-
holy alliance. Her marriage to such a crea-
ture as the Duke of Marlborough, consider-
ing all the attendant circumstances, ought
to have been enough to blast her reputation and
shut the doors of every decent house against her.
And yet it has faised her in this country, although
not in England, to a social altitude she-never had
before she surrendered herself to the loathsome
embraces of the gangrened reprobate who had the
power to trade a battered coronet for a fortune,
with a fresh bit of female loveliness thrown in.
Jenkins has beslobbered her with adulation. He
has been lost in wonder at the condescension of
“ her Grace,” who is still willing to speak to such
plain Americans as have lacked either the oppor-
tunity or the desire to buy social distinction at
the cost of moral and physical pollution. We are
a scurvy lot, take us altogether. We deserve
nothing better than to have a nobility of our own,
and if we keep on as we are going, we shall have
one.”-
S.F. NEWSLETTER.


Great Medical Reform!
Consult (FREE) HERE IIASSMUSSEN, the Celebrated Danish Herbalist,
Expert Specialist in all Private Complaints, Barrenness and Nervous Diseases.
mr
%
s
I
0
.R
k
S
T
V
1
F
A
L
I
T
t
If
migoß*
\%
\
itH)
it
%
✓
\l
%
Of
0
o
%
<4 -
a
i
#•
o
o
IS
ò
Desk
ITALITY
A Guaranteed Cure
for
Nervous Debility and
Lost Vitality.
225. 6d. per Course.
Smaller Box ss. 6d.
Only Herbalist in. Australia
That has received “Gold Medal” for Great Cures Performed, and is Honourably Mentioned in the “Centennial History of New South Wales
for Great Herbal Discoveries ; and who can prove that he has CURED OVER 20,000 PATIENTS.
Sole Proprietor and Discoverer of the Celebrated
DENMARK VITALITY PILLS, Registered
Which have been the means of Curing so many Thousands of Sufferers from Nervous Debility, Lost Vitality, Errors, Weakness, Despondency,
Impure Blood. 225. 6d. per Course ; Smaller Box, ss. 6d.
Genuine Testimonials.
To HERR RASSMUSSEN.-Dear Sir,-Tins is to certify that you
cured me of a very serious blood disease, after many doctors had
failed.—JOHN REYNOLDS, Chappel-street, Leichhardt, Sydney.
To HERR RASSMUSSEN, the celebrated Danish Herbalist—Dear
Benefactor,—l have much pleasure to inform the public that you
cured my wife of an internal complaint of a very serious nature after
all the doctors had given her up.—ARCHIBALD MACFARLANE
Eden Cottage, Barney-street, Armidale. ’
To HERR RASSMUSSEN, Specialist in Nervous Diseases. Dear
° ir > I hereby thank you for the great cure you performed on me for
a very complicated nervous affection, and I shall always recommend
you to sufferers from Nervous Debility.—PHlLLlP STEAD, 54 Parra-
matta-road, Annandale, Sydney.
To HERR RASSMUSSEN, Danish Herbalist.—Dear Sir and Bene-
factor,—lt gives me great pleasure to testify to your wonderful skill
m the treatment of Disease. You cured me of a terrible complaint
after the doctors gave me up, and although it is four years since, I am
as well as ever. I shall recommend you to all.—Yours, gratefully, A.
RAMSDEN, Great Western Coffee Palace, Castlereagh-street, Sydney!
To HERR RASSMUSSEN, Specialist in Nervous Diseases.—Dear
Sir, —I hereby certify that I have been under your skilful treatment
for a very obstinate case of nervous debility, and that you cured me
with one course of your Vitality Pills.—D. M‘NEILL, Hornsby
Junction, N.S.W.
n
Opinions of the Press.
It is a well-known fact that HERE, RASSMUSSEN, the Celebrated
Danish Herbalist, has performed many great cures during the past few
years, as his numerous testimonials will prove. — Sydney Bulletin.
HERR RASSMUSSEN.—We have been shown some excellent Testi-
monials of the great cures performed by Herr Rassmussen,, the cele-
brated Danish Herbalist.— Australian Star.
HERR RASSMUSSEN has now been established in the colonies
for 10 years.— Sunday Times, April 28, 1888.
HERR RASSMUSSEN has become a celebrity in the curing of all
diseases of the nervous system. His name has become a wonder
throughout the Southern Hemisphere. He was presented with a Gold
Medal for some of his miraculous cures.— Balmain Leader, May 12,1888.
HERR RASSMUSSEN.—The remarkable cures which he has effected
are pretty generally known. — Balmain Observer, April 28,1888.
We are perpetually receiving letters from HERR RASSMUSSEN’S
cured patients requesting us to make known to the public the wonder-
ful medical skill this remarkable man possesses, and he has-just been
presented with a Gold Medal from several of his cured patients.
—Sydney Weekly News, May 26, 1887.
Herr Raasmuasen’s Rem.ed.ie3. (REGISTERED.)
DENMARK VITALITY PlLLS.—Guaranteed to cure Nervous Debility, Lost Vitality, Errors of Youth and Despondency. Price, 225. 6d. per full course ; small box, ss. 6d.
DENMARK e^®^^?^m^j L^.~ 5 ® U g^ anteed to cure aII complaints peculiar to Females, Irregularities, and eradicates complaints which cause barrenness.
LOCK CURE PILLS. Guaranteed to Cure all diseases of the blood, discharges, sores, and strictures. Price, 225. 6d. per course ; small box, ss. 6d.
CONSULTATION AND ADVICE FREE.
All the above remedies are made of PURE HERBS, and are forwarded unobserved. A valuable treatise on Nervous Debility, Private Complaints, and Barrenness sent
free, on receipt of 4d stamped addressed envelope. Consultation personally or by post, free. Patients are examined with the aid of the Microscope.
Address ; - Herr RASSMUSSEN the Danish Herbalist,
Corner Q-ordon-street & Fark-road, Padtiiagtoii, Sydney.
TRAMS —Take Paddington Tram to Paddington Tram Waiting-room.
xv i /> *<y
$
DENMARK
</iw\
%
o
o
%
%
7-
ò
%
\.
o
A
■A
%
f Ol
"0
'I
I
%
sb
#
§
.$/
ò
o
ò
A
Desk
ITfIUIY
A Guaranteed Cure
for
Nervous Debility and
Lost Vitality".
225. 6d. per Course.
Smaller Box ss. 6d.
o
o
BALDWIN DRY AIR REFRIGERATOR
Beware of the many so-called Dry Air Refrigerators advertised by unscrupulous Manufacturers and Dealers, intending
fco deceive the public and trade upon our reputation. This is the original and celebrated Dry Air Refrigerator, made
famous by its successful competition at the leading Exhibitions in the United States for the past Six Years, known as
the Baldwin Dry Air Refrigerator.
WHITE MOUNTAIN FREEZERS, ICE MILK CANS, MIXERS,
~ ♦ ' 7
LEMON SQUEEZERS, & c ., &c.
MLEAN BROS. & RIGG, LTD..
512 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
SHEVILLI CO
AUCTIONEERS, LAND & ESTATE AGENTS,
CORNER QUEEN STREET and FLINDERS LANE,
MELBOURNE.
OUTDOOR FURNITURE SALES HELD and ADVANCES MADE PREVIOUS TO SALE
RENTS COLLECTED. VALUATIONS MADE.
BBAUCH OFFICE : 32 CHAPEL STBEET, SOUTH MELBOUBFTE,
rjHE COLONIAL MUTUAL LIFE ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED.
BRANCHES THROUGHOUT THE COLONIES AND THE UNITED KINGDOM.
Policies issued under the Ordinary, Modified Tontine and Mortuary Dividend Systems.
MIAN A. MARSHALL & CO.,
Engineers, Coppersmiths, Brass and Bell, Founders,
Finishers, Plumbers, Ship & General Smiths,
Qabfittbrs, Art & Medieval Metal Worker
ROLLER SKATES (any make) with BRASS or WOODEN WHEELS.
Verity’s Gas Fires, Heaters and Ventilators at greatly Reduced Prices —11,000 Fires already in use
Importers and Manufacturers of Diving Gear, Yacht and Boat Work of every description in
Iron or Brass, Ships’ Single and Double Action Valve Closets, Fire Hydrants, Hose and all appliances
Bon Accord Works, 9 Macquarie Place, Sydney.
Federated Squatters
—AND—
Farmers’ Co-Operative Association of Australasia, Limited,
Q,TJYA.YT, SYDIsTEY.
WOOL and PEODUOE BROKERS, STOCK and STATION AGENTS.
Advances Made and Deposits Received at Current Rates. Correspondence Invited.
THE SYDNEY CATERING COMPANY. LTD..
(Late Gunsler’s Cafe)
175 Pitt street;, Sydney,
WISH their former Patrons and the Public Generally to know that their Saloons have been Entirely and shall be glad if they will give
th eir new cusine a trial.
JAMES 0- MAEQUAND, Manager-


Business Announcements.
TURPIN & BRIAN,
Wholesale and Family Grocers,
623 George Street, Sydney,
ARE THE
CIIEArK.iT CROCE US In the CITY S
A Trial Solicited .
WHITE SUGAR, 2Jd. per lb.
ROLLER FLOUR, ss. 501 b. bag.
SPERMS, sd.
MAIR’S SPICED & FRIED HERRINGS}
per tin.
Large Bottle W. SAUCE, 6d.
„ PICKLES, Gd.
COCOA, 4jd. per packet.
41b. Bar SOAP, 6d.
NEW DATES, 3d. per lb.
i SARDINES, 3s. 9d. per dozen.
Box TEA, 10s. Gd., good and cheap.
Bib. WHITE SUGAR and 11b. TEA, 2s.
NOTE THE ADDRESS:
623-George Street--623
Haymarket, SYDNEY.
(Opposite Square and Compass Hotel.)
<9
c>
from
every flower that
breathes a fragrance
SWEET SCENTS
LO X OTIS OFOPONAX
\ FRANGIPANNI PSID1UM
May be obtained
Of any Oh emit or
Perfume t.
PHOg
Beware of imitations: The genuine is signed.
o
THAI) K MAKK -MU >u DKKR
y? /
PROSE'S k»<
X
X
mam mu///.
o
G
2
m
m
LOTA
s'
fPHIS valuable Lotion is guaranteed to cure SWELLING
1 and SANDY BLIGHT, INFLAMED EVES and LIDS,
DIMNESS OF SIGHT, &c. It will be found very bene-
ficial and cooling to those who have weak eyes, or whose
work compels them to strain their Highly
recommended by the leading Oculists.
Manufactured only by the Proprietor,
H. -A.. ROSE
Dispensing and Manufacturing Chemist,
531 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Wholesale by the Proprietor and all-Wholesale Houses.
Established 1858,
By Post Ss. 6d.
&r
Manufacturer of Dr.
RHEUMATIC
SOUTHAN’S GOUT and
PILLS.
COW’S
rVEMBROCKTIOfi
IMi
I X'
v f
''everywhere*! I
1
NO
DON’T
WASTE
IT
You Will most certainly save Money,
Time, and Anxiety by placing all your
Advertising in our
hands.
Write
to
F. T. WIMBLE & CO.,
Advertising Experts,
369 to 073 George St., Syd. Send for Pamphlet
“ How to advertise and why ? ” 11th Edition.
o
ò
ARTHUR SHAT S CO.,
TKA IMPORTERS
AN l>
BLENDERS,
FOOCHOW and SYDNEY.
Ottice and Sample Rooms:
385 Pitt Street, Sydney.
fy Agents Wanted in every Town throughout
the Colony.
JT ISTO R Y OF BOTANY BAY.
PRICE-ONE SHILLING.
Business Announcements.
O R
PAPER-HANGINGS.
Oits,Colours & Paints.
Wall papers 'f^o^
529 GEORGE Sl> BathurstSt.
Br/ckf/eld ——-
PULVERMACHER’S WORLD-
FAMED GALVANIC BELTS
FOR THE CURE OF
Nervous Exhaustion and Debility, Sciatica,
Lumbago, Rheumatism, &c„
HAVE received Testimonials from Three
Physicians to Her Majesty the Queen and
the Leading Physicians of many London Hospi-
tals, including over Forty Members of the Royal
College of Physicians of London.
For full Price-list and particulars, see new pam-
phlet “Galvanism: Nature’s Chief Restorer of
Impaired Vital Energy.” Pamphlets Free.
Sole Agents for N.S.W.,
FROST «5c SHIPHAM
ELECTRICIANS,
474 & 587 George Street, Sydney.
Sole Aprents for Victoria:
ALLISON BROS., 477 Collins-strbet West, Melbourne.
Medical.
CO
oB
Eucalvpte. 0
v m
it
Victory Ointments
THE TREE OF LIFE
ih)r£
T> ii n c an. 3FI o 33,
The Great American Athlete,
CURED of INFLUENZA by using COLEMANE & SONS’
EUCALYPTE EXTRACT.
DON’T BE DECEIVED.
If you want the best Medicine the world has ever pro-
duced, try Colemane & Sons’ Eucalypte Extract— there
are no ten medicines equal to it. It is one of Nature s
greatest gifts to mankind. It is the only known cure for
Asthma, Consumption, Bronchitis, and all affections of
the Chest and Lungs. For Palpitation of the Heart,
Gravel and Kidney complaints it has no equal, fevers ot
all kinds, Coughs, Colds, Rheumatism, etc., are banished
by its use. Awarded Medals and Diplomas Adelaide,
Sydney and Melbourne, beating all competitors. Singers
and public speakers will find C. and Sons Eucalypte
Honey a wonder. £3s’“ Be sure and get Colbmane and
So vp.
Business Announcements.
r*
OORT'S
LJ
M O N C*
D
RON
<sc
arts
boßme
a al J
a a
i 3
r-n a a
k-
-31
4«B!«
1K»
i
Ml
l
!wi
ROBERTS & CO.,
—W HOLESALE—
Ironmongers* Importers* Iron and Machinery Merchants*
HA Y and ENGINE STREETS SYDNEY,
Head Office: 83 Gracechnrch Street, London, E.C.
IMPORTERS OF
Railway & Bridge Contractors'
Plumbers’
Squatters’
Requirements
IN
Great Variety.
r IMPORTERS OF
Engineers’ and Blacksmiths’
Couchbuilders’
Mining
AGENTS FOR: . ...
Pnpinpfi-The best and cheapest yet made. Automatic self-governing, thus saving cost of gas.
BmSock§ WuSffias Mefe.’Tnd Gas Lamps. ‘ Reading Iron Works Universal (Split) Pulley Wheels.
BraQQOCK s Kowe’s Platform and Counter Weighing Machines and Weighbridges.
“ The Male Generative Function in Health and Disease
— BY—
ALEXR. PATERSON, M.A., MID.,
F.R.C.S., Ed.; M.R.C.S., Enq.
PRICE ... TWO SHILLINGS and SIXPENCE.
)(
OPINIONS OF THE PRESS:
“ Valuable medical work—the Doctor is a quali-
fied man and speaks with authority.”— Town and
Country Journal.
“Can recommend it as a work written by a
gentleman who has attained a very high status in
his profession.” —Manning River Times.
“It set* forth scientific truths which, in the in-
terests oi individuals and society, should be more
generally disseminated.”—Bathurst Free Press.
“Society would be all the better if people only
gave a little of their reading time to such valuable
medical works as Dr. Paterson has in this instance
given to them.”— Mudgee Independent.
“The author not only fully understands the
perils which beset youth and manhood, but he can
point out the remedies.” — Cobar and Louth
Herald.
“Dr. Paterson, M.A., M.D., F.R.C.S.E., is a
high authority on the matters he deals with.”—
Coonamrle Independent.
“The work is well written, and far away the
best we have read on the subject.”—Wilcannia
Times.
“The subject is treated in a manner which
shows the author thoroughly understands it.” —
Fielding Star, N.Z.
“ The book cannot be too widely circulated, and
should be in the hands of every person, male or
female.”— Poverty Bay Independent, N.Z.
“ Totally different from anything else of the
kind which has come under our notice.” — Bruce
Herald, N.Z.
“ It is a work which every young man should
read and lay to heart.”—Border Post.
157 Elizabeth Street, Hyde Park, SYDNEY.
)x( —
CONSULTATION BY LETTER. £ l.
Medical.
KRUPP
M!C
•0^
Silvan
S® E
M
o
IF SO,
DON’T MISS THIS!
What everyone says is bound to be true, and young
and old, rich and poor, physicians who recommend, ana
patients who try
The Krupp Galvanic Chain Belt,
All agree in praising that most scientific of Electro
Therapeutical Appliances. For Rheumatism it is un-
rivalled. Lumbago at once succumbs to its power. in*
Nervous are strengthened and the Debilitated restored to
perfect health and vigour. In short, the appliance is an
unfailing cure for all Nervous, Sexual, or Chronic Diseases,
and is GUARANTEED to ABSOLUTELY CURE, com-
pletely and lastingly, the following complaints:—
Dyspepsia, Neuralgia, Pains in the Back and Chest,
Lumbago, Catarrh, Rheumatism, Dumb Ague,
Nervous Debility, Paralysis, Kidney Complaint,
Spinal Disease, Female Weakness, Diseases of the
Liver, Impotence, Seminal Weakness, Diabetes,
Sciatica, Atrophy, Gout, Indigestion, Asthma, Piles,
Epilepsy Spermatorrhoea, Specks before the Eyes,
Excessive Heart Palpitation, Defective Memory.
An I nfalllna Cure For Varicocele.
It is a PORTABLE BODY BATTERY, and contains
special appliances for both sexes; therefore, why
your roonev and health by procuring and taking USELESS
DRUGS? Electricity, when properly applied, is acknow-
ledged by all leading and unprejudiced physicians to be
the only safe and radical cure for Nervous and Sexual
Diseases, and the thousands of testimonials received by
the Krupp Belt Co. from leading personages throughout
Australasia prove the unquest enable curative properties
of Electricity as applied by theappliance above referred to.
Our confidence in this appliance is so complete, that
we send the Belt out on trial, and guarantee it
to give perfect satisfaction. For full particulars as to
terms, etc., send for our large illustrated treatise, free,
in which these Belts are fully illustrated, the action of
electricity' on the nervous .system explained, and a lot of
useful information on nervous and sexual diseases given.
This treatise also contains facsimile of testimonials received
from some of our clients who have tried our Belts. Ihe
originals of these testimonials produced on application.
JESS" The prices of the Krupp Galvanic Chain Belt and
Suspensory' are from £l.
Sole Inventor .. . Carl Krupp.
Business Manager . , A. W. Courtney.
Address all communications to the
Krupp Galvanic Chain Belt Co.,
Box 647, G.P.0., Sydney, N.S.W.
Remember—The K.G. Chain Belt cures without medicine,
is easy to wear, is sent on approval, and the firs,. cost is
the only cost.
JNDIsTeNSABLE L ADlli
AND ALL PERSONS
With A Delicate Skihi
MOUSON’S
COCOABUTTERSOAP
Cocoa Butter Soap is a real skin-beautifler, and a balm to
young and old alike.
MOUSON & CO., PERFUMERS & TOILET SOAP MANUFACTURERS,
FRANKFORT-ON-TIIE-M AINB.
LONDON: 32 & 33 lIAMSELL-ST., B.C. PARIS: 29 RUB RADZIWILL.
Full guarantee for perfect purity is offered by the
sole Manufacturers, Mouson & Co.
JULIUS GOLDSCHMIDT & CO.,
•231 CLARENCE-ST., SYDNEY,
SOLE AGENTS FOR AUSTRALASIA.
Companies.
The British and New South Wales Investment
and Financial Co., limited.
Incorporated under the Companies’ Act, 1874.
Capital, £250,000.
Sydney Office: 246 PITT STREET.
BILLS DISCOUNTED and Immediate Advances granted
Daily Country communications promptly attended
to. The following Rates of Interest are allowed for Fixed
Deposits: —
3 Years .... .... 10 per cent.
12 Months 9 P er cen k
6 Months .... .... 8 per cent.
3 Months 7 per cent.
With a Guaranteed Bonus on Renewals of Twelve Months
and over.
Bv order of the Board.
W. M'DONALD, Manager.
Citizens’ Life Assurance Company,
LIMITED.
Capital ... "■ X 200.000.
Head Office:
21 Castlereagh St, Sydney,
With Brandies and Agencies throughout the Colonies.
ISTe-w- Business:
188* There were issued 10,557 I’oliclcs.
1888 ~ „ .. 31,684 ..
1880 „ .. » 57,332 »
These figures show the wonderful progress of the
Company and the high esteem placed upon its
liberal dealings by the public.
CLAIMS PAID
Immediately on Proof of
Death
JAMES P. OAK.VAN, \
WM. ALEX. SMITH, f
Managing’ Director.
Secretary.


Medical.
NERVOUS
\ I \ EUREKA V ntvW? :
3T
ELECTRIC
BELTH 1
A:
n
%
-mm
IV
A 2
. >
/ ?F\
A NEVER RAILING CUBE ROB ALL.
tJISEASES OF THE NERVOUS SYSTEM.
Complete with Suspensory Appliances from £l. 0. 0 and
upwards. Tliis famous Electric Magnetic Belt will cure
NERVOUS DEBILITY, Seminal Debility, Impotence,
and all weakness caused by indiscretion. J ains in the
Back, Lumbago, Giddiness, Rheumatism, Kidney and
Bladder complaints, and in fact any disease of the Nervous
Bystem. The currents are steady and constantly felt by
the wearer. It has groat improvements over all other
belts, we are willing to furnish those belts on 30 days
trial, and accept payment after they have proved them-
selves what we represent them to be. Those belts are
made for the specific purpose of producing a continuous,
mild, soothing current of electricity through all the weak-
ened parts, restoring them to health and vigorous strength,
even the worst case permanently cured in three months.
It is more convenient to wear than any other Belt.
A Book illustrated, containing full information and testi-
monials from prominent people throughout Australia,
and informing persons how they may obtain these belts
without paying for them until they have proved them com-
petent to cure any disease of the Nervous System, will be
forwarded to any address on receipt of a 2d stamn far
postage. 9
Address:— VOLTAIC BELT COMPANY
Box 916, G. P. 0., Sydney.
Dr. James D. Llewellyn,
(registered)
SPECIALIST in
Q-EMITO-UEINAET DISEASES,
May be CONSULTED at
-3 25 LONSDALE STREE T—
(between Swanston Elizabeth Sts ),
3Vlex.soijk.me;.
£3T Consulting Hours—lo to 2; 7to 9. Sunday
Mornings, 10 to 11.
All Personal Consultations are fkke ; by letter the
Fee is £l, which is inclusive of medicines.
Barmy’s
Tricopheroos
TOR THE
HAIR&Sm
An elegant dressing ex-
quisitely perfumed, re-
moves all impurities from
the scalp, prevents bald-
ress and gray hair, and causes the hair to grow
Thick, Soft and Beautifnl. Infallible for curing
eruptions, diseases of the skin, glands and muscles,
and quickly healing cuts, burns, bruises, sprains, &c.
Caution.—None genuine without the trade-mark of
Barclay & Co., New York, affixed to each bottle.
% 1801 *
o
>■>
Pbu#
BarsfS
Pearl
Cream
M for the
COMPiIXIOM
Imparts to the darkest skin a clear, natural white,
tinged with the faintest rose-blush. Speedily removes
Wrinkles, Freckles, Sunburn and Tan, and mantles
the faded cheek with youthful bloom and beauty.
CAUTION.—None genuine without the trade mark
of Barclay & Co., New York, affixed to each bottle
E3T” A BLESSING IN EVERY FAMILY.
HOLLOWAY’S BILLS AND OINTMENT.
There is not a country in the civilised world where
the healing virtues of thes m grand medicines have not been
recognised by thousands of sufferers. In all the ordinary
ailments of humanity their beneficent tuition is at once
recognised. Fullest directions are supplied for their use
m every disease. 1 F YOU SUFFER, TRY THEM. Manu-
factured only at 70 New Oxford-st., London. Pur-
chasers should look fo the Label on the Boxes and Pots.
If the address is not 523 Oxford-street, London, they are
spurious.
LOONG SHAM TEA HOUSE
NOW OPEN.
Tart &, Co.’s
EXTENSIVE NEW PREMISES
(Nearly opposite Theatre Royal).
FIRST-CLASS GRILLS,
o
N
G
T
A
R
T
As well as al'l kinds of Refreshments, may
be obtained from 7.30 a.m. to 11.30 p.m.
CUP OF DELICIOUS TEA.
ICED DRINKS OF ALL KINDS, &c.
The rooms are splendidly furnished and
fitted tip. In addition to the large and
well - appointed Refreshment Rooms,
gentleman will find on the Second Floor
Commodious and Comfortable Smoking
and Conversation Rooms, furnished with
Chess, Draughts, &c., Ac.
TO THE LADIES.
On the First Floor will be found Nice
Private Room for Ladies, convenient for
Writing, Reading, Ac., also Retiring.
Rooms and Lavatory, with both hot ami
cold water laid on. JxsmmoN Invitko.
Finest Teas imported—Packets -Jib. and
upwards supplied. Orders promptly at-'
tended to.
Q
U
O
N
G
Sc
C
o
M
P
a
Y
137 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
Medical
A WONDERFUL MEDICINE.
Beecham’s Fills
m
O
W
W
a:
m
Are universally admitted
to be worth a Guinea
a Box for bilious
and nervous disorders,
such as wind and pain in
the stomach, sick head-
ache, giddiness, fulness
and swelling after meals,
dizziness, and drowsiness,
cold chills, flushing’s of
heat, loss of appetite,
shortness of breath, cos-
tiveness, scurvy, blotches
on the skin, disturbed
sleep, frightful dreams,
and all nervous and trem-
bling- sensations, &c. The
first dose will give relief
in twenty minutes. Every
Cji -| -f-prxMy-, . UWCIIUj UUU J’jV tUV
sunerer is earnestly invited to try one box of these
■I ills, and they .will be acknowledged to be
Worth a Guinea a Box.
For females of all ages these Pills are invaluable,
as a few doses of them carry off all humors, and
bung’ about all that is required. No female should
be without them. There is no medicine to be found
equal to BEECHAM’S PILLS for removing any
obstruction or irregularity of the system. If taken ac-
cording to the directions given with each box they will
soon restore females of all ages to sound and robust
health. This ha,s been proved by thousands who have
tried them, and found the benefits which are ensured by
(heir use
T or a weak stomach, impaired digestion and all disorders
of the liver, they act like “ MAGIC,” and a few doses will
be found to work wonders upon the most important
organs in the human machine. They strengthen the
whole muscular system, restore the long-lost complexion,
bring back the keen edge of appetite, and arouse into ac-
tion with the ROSEBUD of health the whole physical
energy of the human frame. These are “ FACTS ” testified
continually by members of all classes of society; and
one of the best guarantees to the nervous and debilitated
is, Boecham’s Pills have the largest sale of any patent
medicine in the world.
Beecliam’s Magic Cough Pills.
As a remedy for Coughs in general, Asthma, Bronchial
Affections, Hoarseness, Shortness Of Breath, Tightness
and Oppression of the Chest, Wheezing, &c., these Pills
stand unrivalled. They are the best ever offered to the
public and “ ill speedily remove that sense of oppression
and difficulty of breathing which nightly deprive the
patient qf rest. Let any person give Beeoiiam’S Cough
Pills a trial and the most violent Cough will in a
short time be removed.
Prepared only and sold wholesale and retail by the pro-
prietor, Thomas Beecham, Chemist, St. Helens, Lancashire,
England, in boxes at Is. lid. and 2s. 9d. each. —Sold by
all Druggists and Patent Medicine Dealers everywhere.
N.B.—Full directions are given with each box.
CONSULT PROFESSOR SELBY,
37(5 Cleveland Street, Surry Hills, Sydney,
Personally or by letter on Chronic Complaints
of the Nervous System, Diseases of the Urinary
Organs and all Impurities of the Blood. A Positive
Cure in all cases amendable to treatment. Suf-
ferers should read the Professor’s valuable treatise,
sent post free to all who send their address. It
contains Advice on Marriage, worth its weight
in gold.
EPPS’
GRATEFUL—OOMFOBTIM
COCOA.
R. WESTCOTT’S AMENORRHCEA
PILLS for Ladies, when taken for a few
days before, quickly correct all irregularities
from whatever cause arising ; 2s. l)d. and 4s. (id.,
by post 3s. and ss. W. H. SOUL and CO., 190
Pitt-street, Sydney, Agents.
Musical.
INGHAM’S
PATENT SCALE INSTRUCTOR
—FOR TIIE-
IPZ-iAZLsTOIFOIR-TIE].
PUPILS can obtain the above at once, and the best
way to illustrate its usefulness to them is to sup-
pose a man to live to be a hundred years old and never
to have seen a Piano, he would, with five minutes’
instruction, be able to play the most difficult Major and
Minor Scales on the instrument.
Miscellaneous.
A. LEWIS, old-established Private Defective,
for the discovery of Missing Friends, tracing
Absconders, watching Suspected Persons, and prosecuting
all kinds of Private and Confidential Enquiries ; obtaining
Evidence in Divorce, Libel, Fraud, Bigamy, Breach of
Promise ; extracts from or Copies of Wills, or Certificates
of Births, Marriages or Deaths obtained in any part of the
world. Bankrupt Schedules Filed, £l, by a legal gentle-
man duly admitted and practising in all the courts of
N.S.W., who may be consulted at my office on all legal
work. Consultation Free. Rents and Debts Collected,
Distress Warrants issued, steady and trustworthy Bailiffs
employed, and all moneys received are promptly accounted
for. W. A. LEWIS cautions the public against so-called
old-established private detective agencies, as lie is con-
nected with no agents in Sydney. An intelligent, well-
trained staff of Male and Female Assistants retained,
capable, when necessary, of assuming any character in
life—-from a newspaper boy to a clergyman, or from a
servant girl to a lady. Terms Moderate. Consultation
Free. Address
Piuenix Chambers, 158 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
ITklki’HOXk 723.
WILLIAM CARGILL
Photographic Stool: Importer,
26 IMLA-ZRIKTET STREET,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
(FECIAL NOTICE.-The Sydney Bulletin.
Ikl Tasmanian Edition Publishers, IITZ-
(JERALD BROS. Subscription (payablestrictly
in advame), Six Shillings and Sixpence per qnar
ter, or One Pound per annum.
The Bulletin will be on Sale every Friday at
Office, George Street, Launceston, or from the
Banners in the street
Business Announcements.
The bank of new Zealand.
Sydney Branches:
64 PITT STREET, and 538 GEORGE STREET,
Paid-up Capital £1,125,000
The Bank has Agents in all the principal cities
throughout the United States of America and
Canada, and can offer special facilities for dealing
in Bullion, Bills of Exchange, Commercial and
Travellers’ Letters of Credit.
Draft? issued and Bills collected on most favour-
able terms, at rates which can be ascertained on
application.
N. E. GTBLIN, Manager.
'g’ATOOMBA FAMILY HOTEL.
JOSEPH (MIMMO.
First-class Accommodation for Tourists and Families
Wires and Letters to be addressed “Proprietor.”
Arrangements can be made to provide transit for persons
wishing to view the celebrated Jfciiolau Caves and
other places of interest.
23
ip
y*
*
*0
H
<b
<v
/EVERY x
ESCRIPTION
0 *
HAIR WORK DONE
PRIVATE
R OO MS
FOR LADIES
/2 2*24
royalarcade\
MELBOURNE
J. SITTERLIM,
FROM PARIS,
Ladies’ Hairdresser. Wigmaker, & Perfumer,
25 SYDNEY ARCADE, SYDNEY.
—o
HISTORICAL AND FANCY HAIRDRESSING A
SPECIALTY.
Manufacturer of All Kinds op Theatrical
and Street Wigs.
Aiumonlated Quinine,
The most efficient Hair Lotion, to prevent prema-
ture baldness.
Sitterlin's Vegetable Hair-dye,
The only Hair-dye in the colonies to restore Light
Hair to its natural colour. All shades.
Success G-uaranteed.
MANUFACTURING HATTERS
GEORGE STREET
SYD NEY
IMPORTERS OF AUTHE
NEWEST SHAPES.
And at ALBERT STREET, BRISBANE.
ò
THE BEST
IM THE WORLD
MANOF
CTO R £ D
FAC
C/fANNOn d%rr6otrrS f
I S*oc*\jd <} SA'reAee/bero
fl
ms
old.
all
Business Announcements.
«J»HE THREE GREAT LIGHTS!
The Needles Patent Gas-making Machine;
The Harvey Patent Safety Kerosene Lamp;
And the New Era Portable Gas Lamp.
The Harvey Lamp has been adopted by the
‘Railway Commissioners for lighting the Sydney
trains. We were awarded the Highest Order of
Merit and Special Mention by experts at the
late _ Melbourne Exhibition for our lighting
mediums. Over 0000 Harvey Lamps are in use
in this colony, and for all lighting purposes arc
giving universal satisfaction. These Lamps can
be seen on one of the North Shore ferry-boats,
and are suitable for all classes of vessels. The
Inventor offers £2OO to anyone producing as good
a Kerosene Burner.
Patentees for Australasia;
H. T. Smith & Co., 494 Kent St. South, Sydney;
14 Arcade, Adelaide, S.A.; Argent Street, Broken Hill ;
Parkside Iron Works, Melbourne.
The Cheapest and Best Horsefeed
IN NEW SOUTH WALES.
CHAMPION OATEN CHAFE!
PRIME OATEN CHAFE!
LUCERNE CHAFF!
MIXED CHAFF!
Our own Cutting.
Fresh every day.
Buy from vs and save money. 'Eft
City Produce Company,
STEAM CHAFF-CUTTERS,
HAY STREET, HAYMARKET,
! Reati ! 3FB.eEa.c3. !
“THE BULLETIN’S”
History of Botany Bay,
By Arthur Gayll.
Profusely Illustrated by The Bulletin’s well-
known Artists,
L. HOPKINS and PHIL MAY.
Price - One Sliillixxg
Per post, Is. 3d.
Hotels.
PPAHLERTS HOTEL,
SYDNEY, HS.W.,
Opposite the Park, V/ynyard Square.
(Under New Management.)
THUS for 25 years well-known First-class Central Hotel,
1 recently thoroughly renovated throughout, has every
comfort and attention of a home. The Cuisine Department
is under competent French supervision. Dining- Room
open for Non-Residents. Open-air Recreation Garden.
A well-ventilated Billiard Room adjoining Recreation
Ground (three Alcock’s best Tables), under the manage-
ment of A. Buckingham, late of Empire Hotel. Wines
and Spirits of the very best quality only, and the Finest
and Coolest Bar in Town
HOT AND COLD BATHS.
NIGHT PORTER.
Telephone No. 150.
French
German
Italian
ó
SPECIAL SUITES FOR FAMILIES.
CHAS. HECHT ... Manager.
Mr. and Mrs. Thomas Aschs
Beg to inform their Friends and Patrons that,
in addition to other recent improvements at the
BOYAL HOTEL,
a first-class HYDRAULIC ELEVATOR has
been erected for the convenience of Visitors,
rendering it the most complete and comfortable
house in Sydney; and with the personal and un-
ceasing attention of Mr. and Mrs. Asche in every
detail of management, they rely on the continued
patronage of their many old friends, whose kindly
recommendation of the ROYAL HOTEL to their
friends will be esteemed.
THE GEORGE HOTEL
(opposite Railway Station, near Baths),
St. Kilda, Victoria.
First-class Family & Commercial Hotel.
£3T For particulars, apply to
3E*. WIMPOLE,
PROPRIETOR,
<) VA L S T AND AR D HO TE L,
CASTLEREAGH and BATHURST STREETS.
Thoroughly renovated throughout.
First-class accommodation for Country Visitors.
G. BOYNF3 ... ... Proprietor.
AG OLD E N SHAN TY.
Price One Shilling.
Australian stories and sketches is prose and verse
—BY—
“BULLETIN WRITERS.


Si
tzkrl
SliilHlif
I
m
B 1
BAY L E E & CO.,
General Auctioneers and Estate Agents,
335 Collins Street, Melbourne, ami 14 Cliapej
Street, South Yarra.
UMBRi ILLAS
RE-COVE R£ IX
QTUDV ECONOMY
and
Have your Umbrella Frames
Re-Covered, and your
Parasols Re-Lined and made
Equal to New, at
J . SU I; I; rVA \ ’ s,
541 George Street,
Brickfield Hill, Sydnbt,
lei ween
Liverpool Bathurst Sts .
Parasols made to match Cos-
tumes. Repairs neatly done.
■atigE
*l.
Acknowledged
j?The Best
WALLAGH BROS.’
FURNITURE
WAREHOUSES,
York Street, Wynyard Square, Sydney,
Now supply the General Public as well as the Trade.
- ■ ■>!<■
10,000 Bedsteads,
From IDs. 6d. to £35.
XI
rsy.
Z&Kt
H, S- Iseach,
SUCCESSOR TO
/P'3 B. MODINI, Guhmaker, informs his Customers
arid The Public in general that he has the largest
'assortment of Firearms in the colony. Qualities and prices
to defy competition, (hum by the, following celebrated
gunmakevs: J. Phiidev & Sons, On. Boswell, John Rioby
and ('o., Joseph I.aso & Sons, On. Osborne & Co., Thomas
Hi, 'nd k. Son. A large assortment of various othermakers
always on hard, viz., W. Vv. Grkexkr, Scott, Wf.blkv,
Hollis, (c Sons Rtlk.y and Cash.more. All goods will he
faithfully guaranteed at 602 George-street, Sydney.
Price list on application.
‘■■lt? 3.3. O 233 L SZ. £3 lEHL OSS,
TOBACCO & CIGAR IMPORTER,
27 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY,
(Curlier of Pitt Street.)
A large stock, of Genuine £lavan uni) Cigars, of the
choicest Brands to select from.
Sole Importer of the Celebrated “ Fl«r dr tSonlto ”
"Brand of Cigars and “ Empire Cigarettes.”
JPalls JJridge Family [Hotel,
Falls Bridge, Melbourne,
This magnificent Hotel, containing 50 Double
and Single Dooms, is splendidly furnished and
perfectly ventilated.
Hot and Cold Plunge and Shower Baths.
Electric Dells. Telephone 1217 Billiards, d:e.
Terms Strictly Moderate.
J. H. I>UR 11A NT ~ Manager
Late of the South Australian Club Hotel, Adelaide.
jEP’a.-eso r*rescriptio3as
Are to be found in the “Idglit and Dife,’
for the Speedy Cure of Nervous Debility and
Kindred Diseases, &e. A copy of this book will
be sent Free, sealed, for Six Penny Stamps.
j\. d dress
S. WARD Sc CO., SYDNEY PHARMACY,
7G HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
tr
FRY’S MALTED
•mi« u»»s«i»nnn
PARKE & LACY
MINING & HYDRAULIC ENGINEERS
AND
GENERAL MACHINERY MERCHANTS,
&c.,
&C., &c.
Bock Breakers.
Knowles* Pumps.
187 & 189 Clarence Street,
SYDNEY, UXT.S.'W.
And SAN FRANCISCO, CALIFORNIA.
Wesiingliow.se Engines
9.
Hay St., Hay market,
ENGINES,
2 to 50 n.r.
BOILERS,
1 to 35 H.p.
STEAM PUMPS
For all purposes.
CENTRIFUGAL PUMPS,
2" to 40" discharge.
HAND PUMPS.
Saw Benches.
Xiatb.es.
DM MACHINES.
Ac,, &o.
o
WINDING ENGINES.
Hauling Engines.
Battery Engines.
Saw-mill Engines.
MR-MILL ENGINES.
ENGINES
FOR
Electric Lighting.
Vertical Boilers.
Multitubular Boilers,
COKNISU BOIJLEKB.
&a, &o.
Wo invite »1 those requiring Machinery of any kind for any purpose, large or small, to write for particulars and prices. From the extent of our stock wo are generally able to give immediate delivery.
Visitors, whether buyers or not, aro always welcome to inspect the magnificent display in our new and extensive Showrooms,
120, 131, 133 & 135 HA.Y STREET, HAYMARKET, SYDKTBY.
