

ď
2v£ar3s:et £ treat, STTIDIfcTErS"-
TJ NIIIV A L LED ACCOMMODATION.
te
U-Xli-
“ iOxilli
Pass.” “ Lool^Out.”
DISTANCE FROM SYDNEY, 42 MILES.
HORSES AND VEHICLES ON HIRE.
“ Xjo ci don Waterfalls.”
EVERY ACCOMMODATION.
Wl. DICKBOM
Proprietor.
UJt :Jsi
BALDWIN DAY AIR BEFRI&EAATOA
Beware of the many so-called Dry Air Refrigerators advertised by unscrupulous Manufacturers and Dealers, intending
to deceive the public and trade upon our reputation. This is the original and celebrated Dry Air Refrigerator, made
famous by its successful competition at the leading Exhibitions in the United States for the past Six Tears, known as
the Baldwin Dry Air Refrigerator.
WHITE MOUNTAIN FREEZERS, ICE MILK CAWS,
X E RS,
x. 33 rvE o x*r scgxj’ES jes 25;e3:0.5, <&c., &c.
Sz Hrlig'gb XjtcL^
512 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY*
rpHE COLONIAL-MUTUAL LIFE ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED.
BRANCHES THROUGHOUT THE COLONIES AND THE UNITED KINGDOM.
_ . . , ,1 * -s=s 'Tontine and Mortuary Divitiencl Systems.
Policies issued under the Ordirvary, Modified j.
J
I®
g
Howard’* ColoiiM 2-t’nvrow o>**•*«£
<sr.?.O.E>
ifsT M
>
Pownfib Siilgic-riurow fiflgglug
Plough.—(O.L.)
Tine* Plougii oST ’t-l-io Times 2
PLOUGHING and harrowing in one act.
Share Points only cost SiL, and are Eeversibie.
Ciiaff-Cuttees, Horse Gears and every kind of Agricultural Implement,s
stock:.
|3f~ Enquirers please quote this paper.
280 i PITT STREET, SYDNEY
(Corner of Pitt and Bathurst Streets).
t
7'/i
i _ £•■ ~>p
M -v
r/
11111
#<7s
SI? Is
i
11
i
Ihi'Cß
Ul!
:•! i
—THE—
LONDON & SYDNEY
TEA
COMPANY.
409— KENT STREET—4O9
(Two doors from Market Street),
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
—IMPORT—
HIGH-CLASS IJST D I A IT & OHI3SrA
~teaF~|
F.a.ked in 2011). ami 401 b. Packages, and delivered at Is. 6tj,„ Is. 9d. and 2s. per lb.
{Carriage Free) to any Railway Station or Port in New South Wales.
A Single Package at Wholesale Price. Correspondence invited and promptly attended to.
The Bulletin
Yol. 11—No. 527. J
[Saturday, March 22, 1890.


TOBACCO
s.
r>.
-42
Cr3S
if'
iwiiii
6^
/IRIK
Customs Returns-
American Lea
Dixson and Sons consumed in 1888, 52,592 lbs.
more, and in 1889 (over 44 tons) 98,939 lbs. more
American Leaf than all the rest of New South
Wales put together.
HIXSON’S TOBACCOS having the largest
sale of any in Australia are
&
☆;
k;
đ
Dr. RIDGE’S
FOOD
FOE INFANTS AND INVALIDS
Has an enormous sale in England
and is now being introduced into the
Colonies.
Every Storekeeper should get a supply
as evei*y Wise mother will certainly
use it.
DR RIDGE’S ROYAL FOOD MILLS,
LONDON, ENGLAND.
V *
%
.'l9
XADIES;-!
sggs:
, gunSc'*"* * 1 <
BROWN’S
SATIN
POLISH
—FOE—
LADIES’ AND CHILDREN'S
BOOTS AND SHOES.
A warded highest honors at
Phila., 187 G Melbourne, 1880
Berlin, 1877 Frankfort, 1881
Paris, 1878 Amstcrd’m 1883
New Orleans, 1884-85, and wherever
exhibited.
Paris medal on every Lottie.
Beware of Imitations.
This Blacking is in liquid form and is applied to shoos
or other articles of leather by means of a sponge, attached
to thQ. cork by a wire, so that the blacking can be used by
anyone without soiling the lingers. No polishing brush
is required. It dries immediately after being applied, and
will not soil the most delicate clothing.
Sold largely in Australia through Commission Merchants
and Dealers.
E. P. BEOV/N & CO.,
Boston, U.S.A., MTgs.
THE BALLARAT COFFEE PALACE,
Lydiard Street, Ballarat.
YISITORS to the Golden City will find every
convenience at the above Establishment.
The Only Coffee Palace in Ballarat.
MODERATE CHARGES.
PEID & SOHS Proprietors.
ATKINSON’S
ENGLISH PERFUMERY
surpasses all others for its natural
fragrance.
Atkinson’s Renowned
English Lavender later
and other well-known Perfumes are
unequalled for their delightful and
lasting odour.
ATKINSON’S
ORIENTAL TOOTH PASTE,
Unrivalled for cleansing, beautifying
and preserving the Teeth and Gums.
Of all Sealers, and of the Manufacturers—
J. & E. ATKINSON,
24, OLD BOND STREET, LONDON.
Trade Mark—“White Roso' on“Go; Jen
Lyre,” with Address in full.
T. LAWLESS, June.,
37 MARKET STREET,
SYDNEY,
Fruit AXer
NEVER TRAVEL WITHOUT IT.
WANTED IN EVERY HOESE.
r
CFFECTUAI.Iv DESTROY!
Au_ noxious insectsß
FLEAf- FLIES. BEETLES MOSaLHTOEffI
COCKROACHES. V'«W. C ANO’lsf** 1 *
AT THE SAME JANIE QUITE
HARMLESS TO BIRDS DOGS
FOWLS OROTHE
ANIMALS
r
r
V
w
&
m
ofr
oir
$
o
+-
vV
& V
m
m
*
<!>
&
m
*
<s
<z>
o>
m
&
m
*
*
>5
$
«V
<0
m
m
&
v
o
m
<<-
lV
m
rSOlD
Ti.'IS,
VARUS;
/II STS
0KI:!\l.EPER$
WHOuI-SAtC
F E LTO NS~6 RIM WAD£ V. C
-MELBOURNE
WANTED IN EVERY HOUSE.
Ask for KRUSE’S INSECTICIDE, and Beware
of the Numerous Imitations.
CLARENDON HOTEL, MANLY,
The Brighton of New South Wales.
AT the CLARENDON HOTEL, Banquets, Suppers, Private Dinners, Evening Parties, etc., are
served on the Shortest Notice in the Large Dining Hall. Besides having a most rcchercM
Dinner, you can enjoy from the balconies the magnificent view of the sea and surrounding country •
here also you can have good company, good wines—in fact, everything that can possibly make one
comfortable can be found at this really first-class hotel. Fishing and Picnic Parties provided. Table
de Hole at One o’clock daily and Sundays. No expense is spared by Mrs. Kilminster to make her
\ isitors comfortable and her Hotel the best in the colony.
Mrs. KILMEXTSTER, Clarendon Hotel,
Opposite OCEAN BEACH, MANLY.
RICHMOND FAMILY HOTEL*
PORTLAND, VICTORIA.
John Shelton - Proprietor.
68 Hunter Street, and 8 Bligh Street,
SYDNEY.
IF. SIHIIROiEIDIEIR.
LIVERY, BAIT, LET-OUT AND COMMIS*
SION STABLES.
Horses and Vehicles of every description for
Sale or Hire; also, good reliable Ladies or Gentle*
men’s Hacks.
WILLIAM === CARGILL,
v Photographic Stock Importer,
2 6 MARKET STREET, SYDNEY.
Q HAf F'E.Y
'<3
i
D
</
V/A •
©
U'y'
HpC'/S
O t
low?
»»
Offices
. I,
/■i n
M i ldura
Melbourne
Renmark
ADELA I DE
Engla.no
; V, cfdR/A.
Chaffey Irrigation Offices, Swanston Street.
— SnCiTH AITBPraUa.
Cavendish Chambers, Grenfell Street.
_J. E. Mathew Vincent, (Chief Commissioner)
Cornwall Buildings, 35 Queen Victoria Sr
LONDON c. c-
Trofi«i»i A- C?
PRINCE OF WALES’ HOTEL,
St. Kilcla, Victoria.
Within Five Minutes from STATION, and One Minute from ESPLANADE and BATHS.
MRS. KONG MENG ... ... ... Proprietress.
ď
đ
Purchasers should see that the Label on every bottle of the original
WORCESTERSHIRE SAUCE
bears the Signature, thus :
O'
Ask for Lea 8c Perutns’ Sauee, and see Name on Wrapper, Label, Bottle and Stopper.
Wholesale and for Export by the Proprietors, Worcester; Crosse <s■ Blackwell, London, sc.. sc.f
and by Grocers and Oilmen throughout the World.
—Everyone should Read—
The BULLETIM’S
“HISTORY of BOTANY BAY,
By ARTHUR GAYLL.
Profusely Illustrated by “ The Bulletin’s” well-known Artists, L. Hopkins and Phil May.
Price - ONE SHILLING; per Post, Is. 3d.
May be had from Agents, or direct from “ The Bulletin ” Office.
A«mts Tift#**!** l ’' ‘ A. Bewfawin, 321 Little Collins Street East, Melbourne; Tasmanian: Fitzgerald Brothers, Geoige Street,
Launceston ; Queensland : J. H. Thompson, George Street, Brisbane.


Beale & Co.’s New Warehouse.
A
*E
OUR NEW SHOW-ROOMS AND WAREHOUSES :
482 & 484 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Something New in Sewing Machines!
THE BEALE PATENT MACHINE.
What is there Special about it?
The restless march of invention has enabled us
to bring before the public improvements of im-
mense value, to some short account of which we
beg your attention for a few moments. Our call-
ing is to relieve the home-mother of all that may
weary her in sewing, and to make the same
throughout a pleasure. That we have during the
last ten years succeeded in so doing, scores of
thousands will testify. And to-day we are supply-
ing a machine whose range of work is absolutely
complete, transcending the hopes and dreams of
years. The construction and form are such as to
place it altogether above and beyond competition,
and for the truth of which assertions, as of the
following, we humbly request that your own eyes
may be the iudges.
THE IMPROVED HIGH ARM. A great
desideratum with la'dies has been the raising of the
arm of the machine, so as to allow the goods to be
sewn to pass freely underneath. This had to be
accomplished without increasing the weight of the
machine. In fact, the Beale runs with wonderful
ease and rapidity. It is almost silent, all clicking
sounds having been obviated. As is well-known,
a good test of the finish of any mechanism is its
silence when in rapid motion.
ALAR GER RANGE OF APPLIANGES is
provided than with any other machine. Samples
of work performed upon these we are prepared at
all times to submit, whilst an elaborate Instruction
Book is supplied, which is alone sufficient to
explain their uses and their applicability to every
requirement
NICKEL-PLATING. —In our climate the
exposed parts of the machine, and the appliances,
need to be protected rust. We have, at
considerable expense, added a handsomely nickeled
wheel, nickeled plates, screws, appliances, treadle-
bar and cones, heightening the appearance. These
improvements also tend largely to preserve the
parts. This plating is imperishable
A MUCH LARGER. DRAWER has taken the
place of the cramped and clumsy contrivance of
former years. When closed it securely fastens the
cover, and is provided with a look and key.
THE WOODWORK is handsomer than ever,
being always of selected and inlaid Walnut. All
of it has been exposed for weeks in the drying-
room of the Factory to a temperature reaching as
high as 170 degrees ; thus when kept out of damp
and sunshine, it will endure our most trying
Cl A a SELF-THREADING SHUTTLE of solid
steel, saving the trouble of threading by the end
of the cotton. It has an excellent tension, is
strong and simple.
THE BOBIN WINDER is a marvel of in-
genuity, winding and guiding the cotton by itself,
as evenly as upon the real whence it came, and
stopping of its own accord when the bobin is full.
The baby’s tiny clothing, upon which mothers love to
display their choicest handiwork; the boy’s tweed suit,
the drawing-room carpet, may all be stitched by the won-
derful BEALE Machine. Examples of all kinds of sewing
required in dresses, millinery, underclothing, tailoring and
upholstery will be shown and explained at our offices free
of charge.
With the wonderful BEALE Machine, whether for hand
or foot use, you can hem any width, make double seams
o- fells, braid, st tch with chenille, Berlin wool or gold
cord, and such like for fancy work ; you may make a
pretty lace stitch, tuck ever so finely, bind dresses, coats,
or carpets; sew on trimmings without guiding, make
frilling, ruffling, or ruching ; quilt, weave your own braid
with any combination of colours, and stitch it on at the
same time ; make thick woollen door mats, embroidered
antimacassars, window curtains, and so forth ; you can
easily aiid rapidly perform the fashionable shirring or
gathering so popular for sleeves, bodies, or skirts of dresses
with an appliance supplied gratis ; lay the small cords in
hoods and stays; do large cording; gather with or without
a band, and generally do all kinds of straight sewing upon
any material whatever. You can darn upon any woven
goods, and do crewel work. You may make button and
eyelet holes, do overcasting, make herring-bone stitch
upon any materials. This work is absolutely unique, and
can only be accomplished upon the BEALE Patent
Machine.
Any of these performances will be show at our shops
at any time. The BEALE Patent makes a lock-stitch
which cannot ravel, yet by a momentary alteration the
sewing can be done so as to rip from end to end if desired.
This peculiarity is sometimes useful when children’s clothes
are intended to be altered
We have a special word for husbands : When the day’s
business is over, and the evening meal is finished, t.ie
wife—and perhaps the sister or daughter—sits down to her
Sewing. With her hands alone she cannot, as aforesaid,
do anything like the whole of the work required. In a
corner of the room is perhaps an old-fashioned machine,
with which she may, by hard driving, occasionally stitch,
with a noise like a sausage-machine, a simple straight
seam ; but that is no great help. She ought to be aUe to
do ALL the work with it, short of stitching on buttons,
which is a trifle. And we have known some instances
where the lady of the house is anxious to obtain a first-
class machine, that which will be the greatest of all helps
to her, but the husband demurs on the score of expense.
Why, it is the only article of the household furnishing
which will ever return vou any part of the cost! If the
lady will use it, it MUST earn far more than the half-a-
crown a week necessary to purchase it. On one little
garment she will save that sum, so that in addition to in-
creased comfort your household expenses will not be en-
larged, but ought to be diminished, by the possession of a
BEALE PATENT MACHINE. How often do we waste
money upon really useless knick-knacks, or upon need-
lessly expensive articles and indulgences? The Machine
should far more than pay for itself during the time you
are clearing it off, and it will then become your own, earn-
ing or saving money as before. Is it not fairly to be
Balled a PROFITABLE INVESTMENT?
Cash or Easy Terms. Price Lists and Samples
Free by Post.
Beale & Company,
482 4 484 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
Or from our Branches and Travellers everywhere.
Business Announcements.
WILLIAM FLEMING,
MERCHANT and IMPORTER,
22 & 24 Clarence Street
(Corner Margaret St.),
SYDNEY.
2
St. James’ Buildings
(WILLIAM STREET),
MELBOURNE.
Fleming’s
i ■ ■
RELIABLE
Buggies.
A
7
High-Class Buggies, Phaetons,
Waggons and Harness.
V
Farm Waggons,
Express Waggons.
CARTS
For One and Two Passengers.
| CCOTTI
THE
CUB tun
IHltlH
I
V
pIjIUIH
Co
>
mill'*
£
"tiniim
y
f< 3
ilium
3
Rimra
fr\
r
V
V
68
CLARENCE Si
SYDNEY
AGENTS
in New South Wales.
TRIUMPH
OF Th E Qoop 3 PIRU OVER Bad.
i You have
Nervous Debility
Sick Headache,
Bilious Gompl’nts
Fever & Ague,
Wasting of Flesh
Sleepless Nights
Neuralgia,
Or any disease of the
Li-ver, Bowels or Kidneys, Lack of
JSirliENGTii or Nerve Power,
you can be Relieved and Cured by
LARMEB'S
CELEBRATED
TONIC.
Price, 2s 6d & ss; Post, Is extra-
Prepared only bv —
C-A.X3ST3 &c GO.,
Chemists,
78 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
For Sale by all t'lieiuists.
M. W. * Co.
CARLSBAD
NATURAL MINERAL WATERS
are now Imported In bottles and used In treat-
ment of CHROMIC GASTRIC CATARRH, HYPE.R-
CEMIA of the LIVER, GALL STONES, CHRONIC
CONSTIPATION, DIABETES, RENAL CALCULI,
GOUT, and diseases of the spleen arising from
residence in the tropics or malarious districts.
THE NATURAL
CARLSBAD SP-RUOEL - SALT
In small and frequent doses is an efficient
DIU RETICLbut as an APE RIENT it should be taken
BEFORE BREAKFAST, in doses of from 1 to 2 tea-
spoonfuls, dissolved hi water. To increase the
APERIENT action of the Carlsbad Mineral Water,
a teaspoonful of the Salt, previously dissolved
In water should be added.
SOLE CONSIGNEES for the U.K. and the Colonies
INGRAM ft ROYLE, 52, Farringdon St., London,
And of all Chemists throughout the World.
The Natural Mineral Waters of
(STATE
d
SPRINGS.)
GRANDE-GRILLE.— For Affections of the
Liver, Biliary Organs, &.c.
CELBSTINS. —For the Kidneys, Gravel, Gout
Rheumatism, Diabetes, &c.
HOPITAL. —For Stomacii Complaints.
HAUTERIYE. —An excellent Table Water.
OF ALL CHEMISTS IN AUSTRALASIA.
Business Announcements.
MASON BROTHERS,
Sis
LIMITED.
263 to 269 KENT STREET,
SYDNEY,
Have always in Stock for Sai-b to th«
Trade arid Wholesale Buyers Only
Ironmongery, and
GENERAL HARDWARE
Glass, China and
EARTHENWARE.
WINES. BEERS <k SPIRITS,
AND GENERAL
BULK MERCHANDISE.
Agents for
JOHN WALKER and SONS
Old Highland Whisky.
J. SORIN and CO.’S
Cognac.
J. T. GAYEN’S,
Schnapps and Geneva.
A. MELVIN and SON S'
Edinburgh Pale Ale.
SPECIALTY,
HENRY KIKTG,
PHOTO-SCENIC ARTIST,
316 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Is constantly adding fresh subjects to his Ini'
mense Stock of Australian and New Zealand
Views, comprising every variety of subject takes
from Nature unadorned and Art glorified.
Marine Views and Landscapes,
Mountains and Caves,
Crack Yachts and Cathedrals,
Old Identities and Young Australians,
Everyday Sights and Stirring Incidents,
Stereo, and Lantern Slides,
High-class Portraiture.
Catalogues on Application.
316 George St.. between Hunter and King Sts.
Medical.
DR. SPEERS
AMERICAN DISPENSARY
3 1 York Street.
P.O. Box 920.
Dr. Speer is a regular Graduated Physician, educated at
Harvard College, U.S. (for confirmation see New Zealand
Gazette, January 21st, 1886; also New South Wales
Gazette, April 17th, 1888). The doctor has devoted 14
years to the study of CHRONIC, NERVOUS, AND
SPECIAL DISEASES. Four of these were in the leading
hospitals of the United States, which enables him to treat
all complaints with excellent results. All applying to
him will receive his honest opinion of their complaints.
No experimenting ;no Mercury used. He will guarantee
a positive cure in every case he undertakes, or forfeit
£2OO. His reason for doing so is this —when there is no
organic disease, and nothing but an inorganic trouble, or,
in other words, a conglomeration of symptoms producing
a certain result, there is no reason why it cannot be re-
moved with the proper remedies, therefore he guarantees.
He wishes it distinctly understood that he does not claim
to perform impossibilities, or to have miraculous power
he claims only to be a skilled and successful physician
thoroughly informed in his speciality—CHßONlC and
SPECIAL DISEASES or MEN and WOMEN. People
residing at a distance can, by explaining their troubles in
detail be treated at home. The course of treatment will
not in any way interfere with their business. Examina-
tion and advice free to all. Charges moderate. H. J.
Speer, M D., 31 York-street, Sydney. Post Office Box,
No. 920. Office hours, 10 a.m. o 12 a.m. 2to 4 and 7
to 8 p.m. Sundays from 10 to 11 a.m. only.
m
■Xf-t
\ %
A .
TO YOXJWa MEKT.
DR. FLETCHER’S
TREATISE ON NERVOUS DISEASES, THEIR CAUSE,
SYMPTOMS, TREATMENT, AND CURE.
r UHE directions contained in this little treatise will be
1 found of immense benefit to the sufferer ; and if these
directions are observed during the early stages of Nervous
or Sexual Debility, No Medicines will he retjuired , as, by
observing the directions given, the patient can Cure Him-
self.
This admirable little treatise is specially written to
show a method of counteracting the evil effects of indis-
cretions in early life—overwork, irregularity in eating or
drinking, &o. It is the result of much study and long
and successful experience in the treatment of diseases,
and contains a fund of useful information to every suf-
ferer from the following complaints, viz.;—Nervous
Debility, Dizziness, Specks before the Eyes, Pains in the
Back, Defective Memory, Loss of Will Power, Loss of
Energy, Spermatorrhoea, Bashfulness, Discontentedness,
Constipation, Liver and Kidney Derangements, Atrophy,
Impotence, Impure Blood, Foul Taste in Mouth, Palpita-
tion of Pleart. Wakefulness, Despondency. Excessive Ner-
vousness, Inability to Marry, Premature Decay, and other
symptoms experienced by nervous sufferers.
All Should Send for this Little Treatise.
If the complaint is of long standing and requires
medicine, Dr. Fletcher will GUARANTEE TO CURE
ANY CASE OF NERVOUS or SEXUAL DEBILITY
with ONE COURSE OF MEDICINES LASTING FIVE
WEEKS, and will send with medicines A WRITTEN
GUARANTEE to cure same or return the monies paid.
Dr. Fletcher’s treatment is both simple and effective,
and within the reach of the poorest. It is unlike any
other, and with it he has cured over 25,000 patients, and
invites patients to investigate his statements by verifying
the testimonials published in his treatise. The treatise
will be forwarded on receipt of two stamps to caver
postage. .
CONSULTATION BY LETTER, FREE.
Address in first instance—
DR. h. EWART FLETCHER,
Box 1417, G.P.O.
Sydney, N.S.W.
Private address—Clonmel House, Waverley, Sydney.
Remember, all cases undertaken, guaranteed, and a
signed agreement given, which provides that NO COST
be incurred by the patient if a cure is not effected.
VARICOCELE RADICALLY CURED WITHOUT
OPERATION.
Mention this Paper.
IW° IN THE PRESS,
GOLiDEIT SHAHTY,”
By “BULLETIN" WRITERS.


nr 7""er*hfp “trr* /\
■i, I'JL \s r- . rrc, I IJL J I _» „ j -L r- JL JL rT—i-
A pleasantly-situated Property, thoroughly cleared, close to Liverpool Station. Torrens’ Title. £1 deposit; 10s. per month.
JV. W. STDEIPIEdCIEICsr., 28 CASTLEEEAGH STBEET, SlTlDnsriEEr.
“A GOODEN SHANTY.” JU3P A Selection from the brightest of the original literary matter which has made The Bulletin world-famous. Trice, Is. : if posted, 3d. extra.
Public Companies.
WESTERN ‘AUSTRALIA.
THE COMING COLONY!
Everyone should Invest a Few Pounds in Land
in *
PERTH,
Tub CAPITAL CITY OF WESTERN AUSTRALIA.
Compared with other Australian Cities the Price
is Very Low.
The Coal, Gold and Tin Mines are attracting
much enterprise and capital to the Colony.
CITY BUILDIM"" ALLOTMENTS,
From £1 per Foot.
BUILDING- SITES adjoining the CITY
From £lO Facli.
Small Deposit. Easy Terms. Discount for Cash.
Each Lot guaranteed good Building Land.
Land in Perth will increase greatly in value during
the next few years.
INQUIRY COSTS NOTHING.
Pamphlets, Marked Plans, and full information
posted to any address on application to
The Intercolonial Investment Co., Limit; 1
96 Bathurst Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
W. J. DOUGLAS, Manager.
WOOL. WOOL.
THE NEW ZEALAND
Loan & Mercantile Agency
COMPANY. LIMITED.
BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Capital, £4,500,000 ... Reserve, £270,000
Wool Season* 1888-89.
Regular Sales of Wool Held Throughout the
Season.
rpHE greatest care bestowed on the Valuation - and the
-L Displaying and Protecting all Wools entrusted to
the Company for sale, whether from large or small clips.
Growers Advised and Consulted with before Sales
of their Clips are made.
Liberal Cash Advances, where desired, on Wool lieu
of Ensuing Clip, and on Wool and other Produce, whether
for sale in Sydney or shipment to London.
Auction Sales op Sheep Skins, Marsupial
Skins, Hides, Tallow, &c., Held Regularly.
Every Information Supplied on Application.
G. S. CAMPBELL, Manager.
SYDNEY WOOL Ss GRAIN WAREHOUSES
t Bridge and Loftus Streets.
Stnciy your Eyes.
SPECTACLES of every description to suit all sights
from Is. to ss. Peebles, ss. to 10s.' Gauge for testing
your sight. Price List and a Treatise on “Vision and the
Use of Spectacles,” sent Free.
W. E. TOOSE, Spectacle Maker A Optician,
418 George Street, Sydney.
Awarded Nine Medals at various Exhibitions.
Flic British and New South Wales Investment
and Financial Co., I,milled.
Incorporated under the Companies’ Act, 1874.
Capital, £250,000.
Sydney Office: 246 PITT STREET.
"OILLS DISCOUNTED and Immediate Advances granted
Daily. Country communications promptly attended
to. The following Rates of Interest are allow'ed for Fixed
Deposits: —
3 Years
12 Months
6 Months
3 Months
10 per cent.
9 per cent.
8 per cent.
7 per cent.
With a Guaranteed Bonus on Renewals of Tw r elve Months
and over.
By order of the Board.
AY. M‘DONALD, Manager.
SMOKE NOTHING BUT
PIPES.
ď
PIPES.
THE BEST IN THE WORLD.
Wholesale Agents :
JULIUS GOLDSCHMIDT & GO.,
23t Clarence Street.
First Prize- MELBOURNE EXHIBITION.
Business Announcements.
ANDREW KING & CO.,
Wholesale Soft Goods Importers and Warehousemen,
FLINDERS STREET, MELBOURNE,
Opposite Hobson’s Bay Railway Station.
rpms old-established house was opened to the Public last Monday as the “MODERN
FAMILY WAREHOUSE,” when the rooms were rushed and the doors had to be
closed.
The Press and the Public have pronounced the Opening Day the Greatest Success
ever achieved in Victoria.
The Goods required no pushing, so Customers were not annoyed by salesmen.
Plain Figures and Good Value at once convinced Purchasers of the advantages to
be gained by buying from a Wholesale House ; and now ANDREW KING & CO. take
position of
Premier Drapers in Victoria.
Parcels delivered at Railway Station on opposite side of street, so that you can do
your shopping in shorter time and with more satisfaction by calling at the “ MODERN
FAMILY WAREHOUSE” as you come into town than by going elsewhere.
Note. —The present Stock is being Sold very much under Wholesale Cost, and
Householders should not neglect this rare opportunity of replenishing their stocks.
Lengths and Quantities to suit all. No Second Prices.
Terms Strictly Casli.
Country Orders promptly attended to, and Squatters’ Parcels made and sent by return.
Note ‘Addeess :
“The Modern Family Warehouse,
OPPOSITE HOBSON’S BAY STATION.
The LONDON & SYDNEY TEA COMPANY,
IMPORTERS OF HIGH-CLASS TEAS,
409 KEMT STREET, SYDNEY.
Packed in 12, 20, and 40ib Caddies
@ Is. 6d., Is. 9d., and 2s. per lb.
n
C
O
Delivered free to any Railway Station
or Port in New South Wales.
“ No. John ;no more Tea from you. I buy now from the London and Sydney Tea Company.”
—THE—
Australian mutual
FIRE
Insurance Society.
Established ... ••• 1872.
Bonuses
OF
20 per cent. Paid Annually
since 1873.
l
is
Head Office
—THE
Oldest Mutual Fire Office
in Australia.
Claims promptly and liberally
settled. Fifteen days’ grace
allowed for Renewal of Policies.
Lowest Current Rates charged.
Hon. George Thornton, M.L.C.,
Chairman.
Head Office:
Corner Pitt & King Streets,
SYDNEY.
Walter Church ... Manager.
Medical.
PULVERMACEER’S WORLD-
FAMED GALVANIC BELTS
FOR THE CURE OF
Nervous Exhaustion and Debility, Sciatica,
Lumbago, Rheumatism, &c.,
HAVE received Testimonials from Three
Physicians to Her Majesty the Queen and
the Leading Physicians of many London Hospi-
tals, including over Forty Members of the Royal
College of Physicians of London.
For full Price list and particulars, see new pam-
phlet “Galvanism; Nature’s Chief Restorer of
Impaired Vital Energy.” Pamphlets Free.
Sole Agents for N.S.W.,
FROST SHIPHAM
ELECTRICIANS,
474 & 507 George Street, Sydney.
Sole Agents for Victoria;
ALLISON BROS., 477 Colltns-street West, Melbourne.
T|R.. SMITH, TJ.S.A,.,
MEDICAL EXPERT
In PRIVATE COMPLAINTS of BOTH SEXES.
A Prompt and Safe Cure Guaranteed.
CONSULTING ROOMS:
Nos. 7 Sc 8 First Floor, 482 GEORGE STREET,
SYDNEY.
Hours : ... From 11 a.m. till 4 p.m.
Business Announcements.
UMBRELLAS
RE-COVERED.
CXUDT ECONOMY
L and
Have your Umbrella Frames
Re-Covered, and your
Parasols Re-Lined and made
Equal to New, at
J. SULLIVAN'S,
541 George Street,
Brickfield Hill, Sydney,
between
Liverpool Bathurst Sts .
Parasols made to match Cos-
tumes. Repairs neatly done.
PAPER-HANGINGS
Oils,Colours « p A , N rs
WALLPAPERS Frov&roIl
p/u
529 George
Brickfield Hill .
"X” li o oKn. eej s .firi oss,
TOBACCO CIGAR IMPORTER,
27 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY,
(Corner of Pitt Street.)
A large stock of Genuine llavaiiitali Cigars, of the
choicest Brands to select from.
Sole Importer of the Celebrated *• Flor ilr Boulto ”
Brand of Cigars and • Umpire Cigarettes.”
Companies.
ITY MUTUAL FIRS INSURANCE
COMPANY, Lanitec.
Established 1877.
Capital £S<KMMIO.
Head Office:
25 CASTLEREAGH STREET, LYENEY.
A Cash Boxes of 10 per cent, is paid to Policyholders
on renewals every year. Insurances covering Loss by Fire,
Lightning or Gas Explosion at Lowest Rates.
The DIVIDEND of 8 PER CENT, to 31st December,
1889, is now being paid, and the BONUS or 10 PER
CENT, to Policyholders will, as usual, be paid on re-
newal of the v policies.
Money to Lend o.x Approved Security.
N.B. —The Bonus paid is equal to that paid by any
Fire Company in Sydney.
ROBERT KERR, Manager.
Sydney Canister Works,
COLLINS STREET, SURRY HILLS,
OFF CROWN STREET.
Manufacturers of all lends of Tinsfor Confectioners!
Tea Merchants, Biscuit Makers, &c., also all kinds
of Tins, round and square, for Pepper, Spice and
Baking Powder, made by improved mach nery.
.A. Trial Solicited.
CITY & COUNTY
Investment, Land aucl Building
Company, Limiteti.
Authorised Capital, £lOO,OOO Reserves and Uncalled Capital, £37,000.
Rates for Deposits : 12 months, 7 per cent.; 6 months, 01 per cent.; at call, 5 per cent.
Bonus to 12 months’ Depositors.
Directors; J. Garrard, M.P., Hon. J. H. Young, M.P., J. P. Walker, J.P., John C. Hamilton.
J. D. Ward, Manager, 327 Pitt-street, Sydney.
đ
327 IE? I T T STBEBT, S Y ID IL7 IE Y.


The Bulletin
ol. ll—No. 527.
SATURDAY, MARCH 22, 1890.
Price, 6d.
c-r~r ' ~ ■ ~
J S *r
j pQITLR,
|clut c he=> ' I
1 1 ' J r 1 • j , _ 1
R pu fs o^ fi
+K 'H ct rloc kl
* f ' I< ' Y- 1 yY,i o V
(/ sc *
p^oTx e r , tt> | |
||eLLe M
ill an c | r <* p o r» V* e
w* p ! ' fTvr
JV-llr-' foils
n ( Q v e
. rv**p
*n or> >* °i K^ p
u L *'*\«
BROWN-POTTER AND BELLEW AT MELBOURNE PRINCESS’.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
“Australia for the Australians.’*
Proprietors : BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO.,
Limited.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 21 Pitt- street, Sydney, New South Walks.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(payable in advance, only).
Per Annum ... ••• ••• ••• £lO 0
Half yearly .. ® @
Quarterly
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Macleod, Managing Director.
Literary Communications to be addressed to J. F.
Archibald.
The Editor will carefully read and acknowledge in tae
“ Correspondence” column all contributions submitted
whether in the form of Political, Social, or other Articles,
Verse, Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in
length, or say SOOO tvords, are specially acceptable),
Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper-Clippings. All
communications will be regarded as strictly confidential.
“ The Bulletin ” will return all unavailable MSS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we
desire those sending MSS. to. distinctly undo stand that
we are not responsible for the preservation or transmission
of such MSS.
NOTICE.
By sending direct foTira Bulletin Office Twenty Shillings
sterling—which you may pay by Post Office Order, One
Pound Note, or Stamps of any Australian colony—you
can have The Bulletin posted regularly to you every week
for a year.
This offer is not open to residents of Sydney. In that
city The Bulletin is not delivered by mail, but is entirely
in the hands of our carriers, with whom we do not wish
to interfere.
SATURDAY. MARCH 22, 1890.
Land Nationalisation and the Single-Tax.
The w r eek which has elapsed since last we
wrote has furnished some tolerably sugges-
tive indications of the accuracy of our
opinion as to the actual effect of the Single-
tax campaign under the generalship of Henry
George. Only men affected with the blind-
ness of unreasonable enthusiasm can fail to
see that the Nationalisation of the land by
any process has been rendered impossible
for a generation to come by the fatal pro-
minence given to the Single-tax method.
That plan will now be indissolubly associated
in the public mind with the Nationalisation
of the land. It will be useless, we fear, to
attempt to point to distinctions. The landed
classes are already furious and terrified—
more furious than terrified—and the whole
array of conservatism is sympathetically
affected. The organ of the wealthy in N.S.
Wales, the S.M. Herald, has never deigned
to disguise its antagonism to the Georgian
methods. But till lately it has preserved a
diplomatic silence. Its conductors have
doubtless thought it possible that George’s
campaign would be conducted mainly against
Protection. But on observing that his
attacks have been most fiei’ce against that
sacred thing, Property, all diplomacy has
been abandoned. The Herald repudiate*
George and all his works and followers. Its
attitude is not in the least surprising or un-
foreseen ; and it indicates with precision the
attitude of that large and very influential
section in the community who have sup-
ported Freetrade simply from an instinct of
conservatism. Henceforth that section
will work with diminished enthusiasm.
They have learned with astonishment that
Freetrade may be closely connected with
confiscation.
* # * #
The antagonism of the S. M. Herald or
of the class it represents, is not, however,
separately considered, of very serious im-
portance. Opposition has been offered from
that quarter to almost every considerable
innovation which has ever been initiated in
Australia. And ordinarily the antagonism
of the Herald has been impotent to*prevent
the adoption of the projects which it con-
demned. Its open attack upon the Single-
tax propagandism is of exceptional signifi-
cance at this moment, because parties are so
nearly balanced in the New South Wales
Assembly and in the count,£yv -that any
abatement in the earnestness of the support
given to Freetrade by the - Conservative
class, might, at the next general elec-
tion, enable the Protectionists to make
a win considerably more decisive than
they could otherwise hope to do. In
New South Wales, Conservatism and
realized wealth are the natural adver-
saries of the protectionist policy, which
aim* at the improvement of the condition
of the labouring class, and tends to
shift the basis of money-making. It is
improbable that anything short of thevapour-
ings of the Single-taxers would have shaken
the alliance between the political Conserva-
tives who have hoisted the Freetrade flag,
and the actual Conservatives who resist any
change from conditions which have enabled
them to do particularly well for themselves.
* # *
More significant by far than the inevitable
antagonism of the Tory Herald is the
strategical retreat which the Sydney Daily
Telegraph has found it necessary to under-
take, in order to extricate itself from a
position which had become compromising
and threatened to prove ruinous. The
Telegraph, like its shameless, truckling,
London namesake, represents the bourgeois
mind. It dabbles in Liberalism, in a tenta-
tive, swaggering style, but not too much
Liberalism in practice. Like a timid necro-
mancer, it would like to be a tremendous
fellow, and occasionally screws up its nerves
to the point of making the preliminary in-
cantations which if completed would summon
up the spirit of Liberty. But the moment
the spell begins to operate—when the lights
burn blue, when distant mlitterings of thun-
der make themselves heard, and gentle
tremors seem to prelude an earthquake and
convulsions of nature, the heart of the bour-
geois wizard sinks into his boots. All the
histories he has read of neophytes whom the
spirits they had raised tore limb from limb,
on account of some slight defect in the in-
cantations, rush into their minds. They
instantly suspend the charm, and make haste
to recite it all backwards, so as to undo it,
as far as it has gone. This is just the atti-
tude of the Sydney Daily Telegraph at this
moment. It is earnestly engaged in im-
ploring its customers to believe that it is in
no sense committed to the Single-tax theory.
Further, it begs of them to purge from their
minds any idea that any harm has come
of the encouragement it gave to the
Georgeites. It insists that, after all, these
and their masters have simply been
made instruments of good. This is rather a
difficult thing to convince people who are
of opinion that the Single-taxers and their
abettors have among them raised the Devil—
of confiscation.
# » #
But the Telegraph anxiously pleads
that all is well. Only an insignificant
number of persons, it explains, have been at
all impressed with Mr. George’s Single-tax
teachings. In this, the very essence of his
mission, he has, according to the Telegraph,
made a remarkable failure. All he has
accomplished has been, according to this
affrighted apologist, to'frighten many of the
land-owning class, which in N.S. Wales in-
cludes a very large proportion of the masses,
and to inflict considerable injury upon
the cause of the Protectionists. This
last result, it thinks, is proved by the
circumstance that the Protectionists have
not attempted to reply to George. Now
there is here surely a gross defect in reason-
ing. If the Protectionists had shown them-
selves incapable of expressing their views
whenever they were in the wrong, it would
be tolerably fair to suppose that they said
nothing about Mr. George because they
could find nothing to say. But the Protec-
tionists have notoriously been fluent in
public speeches. And, according to the
Daily Telegraph’s constant contention,
they have been hopelessly in the wrong all
the time. It seems, therefore, just as
likely that they have left Mr. George
proceed with his campaign without in-
terference or contradiction, because they
reckoned it well to let his teachings sink into
the minds of the people as that they have
nothing to say. In reality, the Telegraph
diagnosis is quite correct. George has
“frightened the land-owning class,” and has
caused a host of them to consider that Pro-
tection is preferable to Spoliation. George’s
testimony against Protection has also affected
adversely the Protectionist cause, and his
Single-tax teachings have doubtless touched
the imaginations of some of ihe landless
class who are Protectionists. But of these
counter-influences the balance of advantage
rests with the Protectionists, who conse-
quently feel less under the necessity of
answering Mr. George than the Freetraders
are of disclaiming sympathy with his Spolia-
tion proposals.
* # m
Nothing that Mr. George has had to say
against Protection, or about Protection in
the United States, is new here. All that he
has urged in these respects has been re-
peatedly advanced before, and as constantly
replied to. But what he has to say against
the bastard system which in New South
passes for Freetrade is new and infinitely
damaging to the sham freetraders of the
province. The protectionists have occasion-
ally mentioned these arguments as deduced
from Mr. George’s published works. But it
was not particularly advantageous to give
them much prominence. Employed by Pro-
tectionists, these arguments could only have
the appearance of taunts to mock Free-
traders. Naturally the mock Freetraders
and their organs took special pains not to
give any prominence or currency to George’s
strictures on their own bogus-Freotrade.
Urged by Mr. George himself, those aigu-
ments aoascitute a terrific impeachment of
the 1 jo'al so-called Freetraders. They are
ruthlessly stripped of all their gaudy pre-
tensions to liberalism and reasonableness
and consistency and all the rest of it. They
are pilloried in all the nakedness of their
case—irrational, illogical, timid, and dis-
honest. That is what Mr. George has said
of the New South Wales Freetraders. And
—as the Telegraph remarks with respect
to his strictures on Protection—“ There is
some evidence that Mr. George has inflicted
considerable injury upon the cause of the
Freetraders. This is apparent from their
treatment of him and his addresses. There
has not been the faintest attempt to answer
him.” Why the Telegraph, itself one of
the 01-acles of the mock-freetrade so drasti-
cally denounced by George, has not had a
word to offer in deprecation and explanation,
in defence, or in justification.
* # #
But enough of this. Mr. George and the
Freetraders, Mr. George and the Single-
taxers have alike been disappointed. The
last-named sect hoped to use the Freetraders
as cats-pavvs. The Freetraders hoped to use
George and the Single-taxers precisely in
the same way. On the whole, we reckon
that in this respect the Single-taxers have
got somewhat the best of the competition.
They havetheadvantage of being disinterested
and earnest in their views, and perhaps
modest in their present expectations. They
wanted chiefly a hearing fur their prophet.
Without the help of the Freetrade press
they could not have secured that. They
have achieved that aim completely. They
have used the S.M. Hera Lit as a reluctant,
and the Daily Telegraph as a cajoled trum-
peter for Mr. George and the Single-tax.
Neither the mock-Freetraders nor the Pro-
tectionists of the province advantage much or
lose much in the bargain. But the party
which loses everything is the Single-tax
party. Not only is the Single-tax damned
by its essential inapplicability but unfor-
tunately it involves in its own destruction
every form of Land Nationalisation. The
Single-taxers in their chronic condition of
mental exaltation doubtless fancy that their
cause was never so prosperous. Never, they
will argue, has the life-blood coursed so
strongly through its veins. It has emerged
from infancy and childhood, and presents to
the most prejudiced observer the ruddy
blush of vigorous adolescence. A composed
and contemplative observer will be apt to
regard this sanguine aspect with misgiving
and with pity. The indications which arc
rashly interpreted as the vivacity of develop-
ing strength and the bloom of health, appear
to dispassionate observation to be merely the
premature activity and ephemeral flush of
the consumptive patient—the ordinary in-
dications of impending and rapid decay.
* * %
Had Mr. George been less a man and
more a divinity—had he been freer from the
imperfections of human nature and human
vanity, the fruits of his reflections would
probably have been earlier garnered by the
Australian people, at any rate. Great
thinker as he is, he has not been proof
against the weakness of permitting his mind
to run into a groove. Having struck the
great truth, that it is essential for the per-
fection of social arrangements that land
shall be common property, .and having in-
vestigated the various means of achieving
that object by the light of such knowledge
as he could compass, Mr. George has fallen
into the error of pronouncing that because
certain mild processes of reform would
be inefficient in all the cases which
have presented themselves to his view,
there are no other cases possible, and
the one drastic method of the Single-tax
is the sole plan by which nationalisation of
land can be achieved. We contend, on the
contrary, that the agrarian circumstances of
New South Wales are such as render the
Single-tax remedy inapplicable and impos-
sible. It is inapplicable because a milder
remedy would effect the same end. It is
impossible because its very character renders
it repugnant to the only power which could
give effect to it—a majority of the people.
No skilful physician or surgeon resorts to
desperate remedies so long as there is reason
to hope that milder courses may cure. It is
impossible to persuade the actual holder of
land—especially the man who has invested
in land the results of his savings and self-
denial—that there is no injustice in depriv-
ing him of his property without compensa-
tion, as the Single-tax theory proposes. All
the refinements with which Mr. George, in
Book YII. of “ Progress and Poverty,”
labours to demonstrate that every title to,
exclusive possession of land is bad, and that
there is no injustice in confiscating the value
of land from the holders, will fail to satisfy
those who are in possession. Each individual
will consider his own case. The man who
yesterday, owned a herd of cattle and, selling
it, bought land with the proceeds, will
for ever deny the intrinsic and philosophic
justice of reducing him to beggary by
confiscating his rents, whereas the man who
bought his cattle, and the man who got his
cash remain as wealthy as before. An opera-
tion of this kind will never, in this world, be
effected without the shedding of blood. In
old countries in which all the land is monopo-
lized, the many may overpower the few and
take the land without compensation. But
even there the appropriation will only be
effected by force of arms—by established
superiority of physical force. In New
South Wales, and in Australia as a whole,
there is no such complete monopoly. There
is nothing approaching it. Up to the close
of 1888 the area alienated in New South
Wales was about forty millions of acres, and
there remained as the property of the commu-
nity one hundred and fifty-three millions of
acres. Both the alienated and the unalion-
ated lands will constantly increase in value
as the State or the community creates means
of easy communication, and as the labours
of the settlers impart greatly - increased
values to Crown lands. It would have been
no such outrage upon the sense of
justice of landowners in general, and of
the community at large, to propose
that all alienated lands should bo
resumed by the State on payment of the
present value, as is occasioned by the Single-
tax proposal to confiscate their rental values
without any repayment. The former pro-
position has the sanction of John Stuart
Mill, whose plan, even if it be inadequate
when applied to older communities, has been
too lightly rejected by Mr. George. It is
simply that—
From the present date, or any subsequent time at which
tke legislature may think fit to assert the principle, I see
no objection to declaring that the future increment of
rent should be liable to special taxation : in doing which
all injustice to landlords would he obviated, if the present
market value of their land were secured to them ; since
that includes the present value of all future expectations.
An obvious application of this plan, in New
South Wales would be for a valuation to be
made of all alienated land, at which valua-
tion the State should have the right to re-
sume at any future time. The future incre-
ment of values would thus belong to ihe
community. Speculative dealings would
cease. As soon as the rental value of any
land exceeded the current rate of interest
the State could pay off the owner, with a
distinct profit. No one would suffer wrong.
No disturbance would be occasioned to other
businesses. The question of Freetrade and
Protection could be settled independently,
whereas under the Single-tax method, society
would be convulsed. There would not be a
business —there would scarcely be a house-
hold —in which the shock would not be
sensibly felt. Take, for example, the care-
ful father of a family, owner of no land,
who had made provision for the future by
life insurance or endowment. Say that he
had a policy in the colossal Australian
Mutual Provident or any other good colonial
office. The funds of these institutions are
almost entirely invested in and on land. Were
the Single-taxers to succeed in having their
method adopted, the Australian Mutual
Provident Society ivould be insolvent the
next day. This is but one instance of the
widespread and far-reaching ruin which
such a plan, if carried into effect, would
wreak. Yet land could be nationalised
without such monstrous inequities. But
thanks to Mr. George and his colonial
ill-advisers—to them in particular years, nay,
even generations—will probably have to pass
away before this community will be disposed
to hear of Land Nationalisation without
thinking of robbery.
Drink and Poverty.
This is an endless contention : “ Whether poverty
causes drunkenness or drunkenness causes poverty.”
The secretary of the New South Wales Licensed
Victuallers’ Association says that poverty causes
drunkenness. The Sydney Echo says that
drunkenness causes poverty. Which is sight ?
Neither ! Each statement is an ex parte one.
On the one hand it is assumed that
the only cause of drunkenness must be
poverty; on the other, that the only cause
of poverty must be drunkenness. This is tan-
tamount to asserting that rich men never get
drunk; that poor men would be wealthy were it
not for alcohol. The whole confusion arises from
what in logic is called an undistributed middle.
The question of drunkenness is not a question
altogether of the cost of its indulgence. A rich
man gets the desired experience by drinking
champagne; the poor man by drinking “tangle-
foot.” Ten working men can get comfortably
drunk on half the amount spent by a rich man in
merely assuaging his thirst. Drunkenness is afhic-
tuatingquantity, Thenthequestionof temperament
comes in . one man cannot achieve drunkenness
by consuming' the contents of half-a-dozen bottles ;
another requires only two glasses to make him a
dangerous lunatic. One man can be rich and a
drunkard without becoming any the poorer for
his appetite. Another man can be poor and an
abstainer without, becoming any the better off. A
third can be both poor and a drunkard without
descending into those final depths that sages
assure us is the goal of the evil-doer.
*
In the consideration of the drink question the
anomalies are endless. The evidence is not so
much arithmetic as algebraic, and the unknown
quantity embraces race, religion, health, mental
constitution, hereditary tendency, and, in short,
all that constitutes the debatable ground of the
physical and psychical sciences; and yet young
men, like the secretary of the Licensed Victuallers
Association, and juvenile and inexperienced news-
papers, like the Sydney Echo, attempt to bound
the boundless and to limit the illimitable in the
■ipse dixit and ex cathedra fashion above quoted.
Hard and fast lines are drawn; unappeal-
able propositions are laid down ; and boun-
daries are erected with the idea of corraling
an investigation of phenomena which from their
very nature can only be studied inductively.
Everywhere we are met by contradictions. Some
drink much without becoming inebriated ; others
drink little and are always inebriated; some
are always drunk and are never incapacitated for
work ; others are seldom drunk, but when they
are drunk they are fit for nothing. The habitual
“soaker,” who is never very much the worse
for liquor, and never any the better for it,
is of small value to himself or to humanity; the
working-man, who occasionally goes on a terrific
“spree,” is of the greatest value, both to him-
self and to humanity. Where are we going to
look for truth ; for the happy medium? We say
that temperance is good—good for some people.
The abstaining races, however, are intellectually,
morally, socially and physically inferior to the
drinking races. Nay, more, nations occupying the
topmost rungs in the ladder of civilisation, or of
political dominance—which often amounts to the
same thing—the Russians, the Germans, the Eng-
lish, are such heavy-drinking nations as almost
to deserve the name of the “drunken
nations.” The French, who are fiery, unquench-
able, liberty-loving, are great drinkers, al-
though not drunkards :—and, yet, drink is an un-
deniable evil. Perhaps, it does humanity yeoman
service in carrying off those too weak to withstand


it. Only the strongest survive, and seeing only
the strongest surviving, we are apt to draw wrong
inferences. Yet drunkenness and. stupidity are
not necessarily concomitant. The American is a
free drinker, and the American is bright and
shrewd; the Spaniard is abstemious, and the
Spaniard is a dolt, sunken in depthless supersti-
tion and unfathomable ignorance. The Arab is
forbidden by his religion to drink wine, and the
Arabian civilisation is just about where Mahomet
left it. The Chinese is, in the main, a teetotaller,
and the Chinese is a fossil. Yet drink is an un-
deniable evil. It is also an unquestionable good.
* * #
Mr. White locke, the paid secretary of the
New South Wales Licensed Victuallers’ Associa-
tion, is subsidised by an interested society of
tradesmen to represent their case as well as he
can, and he represents it —presumably to the
best of his ability. But we must never lose sight
of the fact that he is a 'paid .advocate,
and just so much weight, and no more, should be
attached to his arguments, as we allow to a special
pleader defending a convicted criminal, or to a
clergyman promulgating certain religious tenets
upon which exercise he depends for his bread-and-
butter. Mr. Whitelocke does the best that he
can for his own party; so he travels over the
arguments advanced for the drink-traffic by Lord
Bramwell, in a tract written by him for the
Liberty and Property Defence League. Of course,
the licensed victualler looks at the question of
abstinence from an altogether different standpoint
from that of the philanthropist, the moralist, or
the statesman. He considers it purely as a trade
question—and only as a trade question. The
Tsar of all the Russias is the greatest licensed
victualler in the whole world, yet the consumption
of Vodka has been one of the chief causes of the
continued degradation of the Russian moujiks.
And the Tsar has as much right to justify a
terrible national crime, committed for the sake
of revenue, against his nation, as either Lord
Bramwell or Mr. Whitelocke. But suppose we
admit for the sake of argument that “poverty
does cause drunkenness,” has any man, in the
name of commerce, the right to fatten on it ?
* * #
Poverty does not cause drunkenness, but it does
augment it. Drunkenness does not cause poverty,
although it may assist in keeping a man poor.
The Australian drinks, very much after the
fashion of his English father, yet his position is
infinitely better. One cause of drunkenness, at
least in Australia, is probably the heat of our
summers, which drive men to drink whether they
will or not. Water is out of the question. In
the summer water is hot and impure. Tea is
slow poison to thousands of people who never get
to know it, slop-drinks generally do quite as much
harm, pro rata, as alcohol, and the teetotal lady’s
historic prize of £lOOO for a pleasant “soft”
drink to supersede alcohol is still unalloted, and
will remain so till the crack of doom. But a man
must drink! Great pains are taken by the
various Australian Governments to make popular
in Europe our wines ; no pains are taken in this
regard for their home consumption. Heavy
taxation causes the adulteration of spirits and
colonial beer until they are hardly fit to look upon,
much less to drink. The summer, however, is
insensible, and drives men to the public-house,
where, instead of getting good Australian wine,
they drink adulterated and imported poison.
Then we wonder what causes drunkenness ! In
Spain, in Italy, in France, where the heat causes
great evaporation, light wines can readily be had
at a small cost, and these do nothing but good.
In these countries, wine is looked upon not as a
luxury, but as a necessity ; hence its consumption
is never inordinate. Says Adam Smith, in his
“ Wealth of Nations ” :
The cheapness of wine seems to be a cause not o
drunkenness, but of sobriety. The inhabitants of the
wine countries are in general the soberest people in
Europe ; witness the Spaniards, the Italians, and the in-
habitants of the Southern provinces of France. People
are seldom guilty of excess in what is their daily fare.
Nobody affects the character of liberality and good fel-
lowship by being profuse of a liquor vvhich is as cheap as
small beer. On the contrary, in the countries which,
either from excessive heat or cold, produce no grapes, and
where wine consequently is dear, and a rarity, drunken-
ness is a common vice, as among the Northern
nations, and all those who live between the tropics
—the negroes, for example, on the coast of Guinea.
When a French regimentcomes from some of the Northern
provinces of France, where wine is somewhat dear, to be
quartered in the southern, where it is very cheap, the
soldiers, I have frequently heard it observed, are at first
debauched by the cheapness and novelty of good wine ;
but after a few months’ residence the greater part of them
become as sober as the rest of the inhabitants. Were the
duties upon foreign wines, arid the excises upon malt,
beer, and ale, to be taken away at once, it might, in the
same manner, occasion in Great Britain a pretty general
and temporary drunkenness among the middling and
inferior ranks of people, which would probably be soon
followed by a permanent and almost universal sobriety.
At present, drunkenness is by no means the vice of people
of fashion, or of those who can easily afford the most ex-
pensive liquors. A gentleman drunk with ale has scarce
ever been seen among us. The restraints upon the wine
trade in Great Britain, besides, do not so much seem cal-
culated to hinder the people from going, if I may say so,
to the alehouse, as from going w here they can buy the
best and cheapest liquors.”
It is not, in this country, necessary to remove the
duties on imported wines. We have here in Aus-
tralia abundance of grapes—let us reap the benefit
of them. To abolish drunkenness you must have
plenty of wine; it must be good ;it must be cheap.
The export trade in Australian wines can very
well be left to look after itself.
*■ * #
There is, however, another cause for drunken-
ness, lying altogether outside the questions of
adulterated liquor, of a hot climate, and of taxa-
tion. If there were no drink to be had but good
drink ; if drinking-habits were abolished entirely
and the consumption of alcohol simply looked
upon as a daily need ; if wine were so innocuous
that a man would require to drink a gallon before
he could experience in the slightest manner the
effects of intoxication, people would still get
drunk. There is a world of truth in the saying of
the wit that “man being a rational animal he
must get drunk.” He must! No matter how he
attains this desirable condition, there are times
when the necessity becomes goadingly impera-
tlv® >. there are men for whom legislation can do
nothing, men for whom inebriety is one of their
normal conditions. Some, like De Quincey and
goleridge, seek solace in opium; Charles
ij;VM B and Edgar Allan Poe fled for ne-
penthe to gin; Burns forgot all his troubles
o er the malt-brew, or the stilled rye ; Camp-
bell, Moore, Bolingbroke, Sheridan, Addison,
niangan Kendall— their name is legion, the
brightest, wittiest, most gifted of mankind—
y them tried to raise the commonplace tone
of their lives by stimulants and narcotics. A
drinking parson, who was witty and brilliant only
When he was under the influence of alcohol, ex-
cused his propensity by remarking that it enabled
mm to endure the conversation of stupid people.
Ve do not apologise for these men. We simply
state a scientific fact; the great nations are the
drunken ” nations, and the great men of those
nations are often the) hard drinkers. Temperate pco-
ple never do anything foolish ; in other words they
never do anything wise; they never do anything
grand, self-forgetful, naif. Thinking always about
what is good for them, they never do any good for
others. Drunkenness is a curse; yet the best
men in the world are not the teetotallers.
* # *
This does not alter the fact that a nation has a
real concern in the well-being of the great mass of
the people, and, consequently, a perfect right to
load any trade which may be considered dele-
terious to the public health and the public morality
with restriction upon restriction. Those who will
drink, those who must alcoholise, will do so not-
withstanding all restrictions, just as a man deter-
mined to cut his throat will do so, despite the
fact that those who do not succeed are severely
punished by the law. But let there be no undue
aid given to the man who will, who must drink,
smoke opium, take chloral, hypodermatise his
system with morphia. No man has a right to
shove his neighbour down a well, even though his
neighbour be willing and anxious to be shoved
down. No man has a right to accommodate his
fellow who desires that his throat should be cut.
If the Legislatures of Australia listened to such
specious argumentation as that advanced by the
LicensedVictuallers’championsthey would remove
all restrictions on the sale of poisons; they would
allow citizens to carry arms in the streets; they
would abolish all law and destroy all institutions;
anarchy would supervene, and the purveyor of
strong drink would have to look after his own in-
terests in a world where the adulteration of liquor
might be considered a crime of the deepest dye.
Laissez-faire is the doctrine of no man. Many
men imagine that they are laissez-faire-ists, but
they are always meddling-—and rightly—in their
neighbour’s business. Every man wants to be
let alone ” in the direction in which his own in-
terests are concerned. Like the pious frauds in
Butler’s poem they compound for sins they are in-
clined to, by damning those they have no mind to.
The pleas put forward by the Licensed Victuallers
for the immunity of the drink-traffic from the
wholesome demesne of legislation, would tend to
the logical subversion of every principle of demo-
cratic government. Compulsory education ! How
could you insist upon a child going to school for
the cultivation of his mind and his body, when
you permitted, without any check, an altogether
irresponsible person to destroy both the minds and
the bodies of that child’s parents ?
* * *
Even such a miserable society as we have recog-
nises that man’s worst enemy is not always his
fallow-man. Man must be protected against him-
self. This is the doctrine preached by trades-
unionism ! A man cannot indulge in drink without
affecting others. If he is not a father, or a husband
he is at least a citizen, and as a citizen his welfare
is the business of all his fellows—because it reacts
upon and influences their welfare. We say to the
Licensed Victualler, “Plead your cause as
speciously as you may, you shall have no right to
kill without restriction; and, as units composing
one human community, the welfare of each and
every member is a matter of concern to us all, we
shall endeavour to limit that right by all that
in us lies.” Early closing of drinking-saloons,
abolition of night-houses, legal prosecution
of drunkenness and sly grog-selling, local option,
Sunday-closing, social reprobation of the practice
of inebriety, encouragement of the aims of tem-
perance organisations, are all evidences of the
deep interest taken by the public in this question
of drink. We would, however, work for our
object in another manner. We recognise the fact
that men drink and that they get drunk. We
recognise also the fact that men get drunk mainly
because what they drink is not good. We call,
therefore, upon the Governments of Australia
and demand that adulteration be included in the
list of capital offences : the catalogue is already
so ample that an extra “crime’’will make very
little difference. Then we demand, in the second
place, that the liquor-inspector should be instruc-
ted to employ as much of his energy as is at pre-
sent displayed by the stipendiary magistrate in
dealing with the “drunks” that come before*
him for sentencing. We demand, in the third
place, that the Governments remove the excise on
colonial beer, and give bonuses for the cultivation
of Australian wine, until it becomes better,
cheaper, and more plentiful than the bad water
which is drunk in Australia during the summer
months. When we receive the full measure of
ourx-equisition, we shall anticipate the millennium
—and not until then.
* # #
No! poverty does not cause drunkenness, nor
does drunkenness cause poverty; these are only
parts of a very great question. A thousand
things may cause drunkenness, and, as far as re-
gards Australia, we think they are mainly these ::
early-contracted habits taught by heavy-drinking
imported parents; the heat of the Australian
summer; the wretched quality of the liquor,
occasioned by the adulteration which is the out-
come of Customs and excise duties; the insufficient
supply of good, light, cheap Australian wines;
temperament, health, and constitutional tenden-
cies ; the lack of all rational outdoor amusements,
which compels people to go theatres and to other
crowded resorts, whence to escape is to plunge
into the nearest tavern; and a whole host of
causes not catalogued by Lord Bramwell, Mr.
Whitelocke, or The Echo, but which cover a
tremendous territory in that vague domain called
by scientists psychology. The reason why one
man gets drunk on an amount of liquor sufficient;
only to assuage another man’s thirst may be a
very simple one ; but it is quite enough to put the
whole question outside the range of catalogues and
paradigms. If “ one is another man’s
poison, ” what shall we say of one man’s drink ?
PLAIN ENGLISH.
About Volunteers.
The Tory Government of Great Britain has beera
defeated when opposing, in the House of Com-
mons, a motion that the volunteers should be more*
liberally dealt with than heretofore. To many
people this may appear a trifling item of intelli-
gence. Really it is one of startling significances
The British volunteers sprang into existence about
five-and-thirty years ago, at a time when the
French Emperor Louis Napoleon was supposed
to meditate that coup which his uncle had failed to
accomplish--the invasion of England. Sundry
colonels of regiments had addressed to His
Majesty a chauvinistic request that he would lead
them to the conquest of Perfide Albion, and these
valiant Anglo-Phobiacs had not been rebuked or
checked by any indication of the Emperor’s dis-
pleasure. Forthwith the people of England fled
to arms. Ere long a quarter of a million of men
had volunteered to submit to the inconvenience of
military training and to prepare themselves to
meet the Gallic invader. The British Government
was thoroughly seared. It accepted the offer of
the people, made, considerable appropriations to
meet the expenses, and equipped the citizen and
yeomen soldiery with the best arms then avail-
able. The Enfield-Minie rifle was at that
time the firearm of the regulars, and the
volunteers were provided with the same
weapon. In course of time the panic was
dissipated. The volunteers, instead of being
petted, were tolerated only. The chief anxiety of
the oligarchy which rules Great Britain was that
they should not become too efficient. Latterly
they have been treated almost precisely as the
Sepoy troops in India have been, since the mutiny.
The latter are so managed that they cannot again
hope to take the field against the white troops.
No native artillery is trained. The British volun-
teer, although he is permitted to form artillery
corps, is not equipped for offence in that arm.
For garrison purposes the volunteer artillery is
efficient enough. But the preponderance, both in
quantity and quality, is carefully maintained cn
the side of the regulars. Similarly with the in-
fantry. The bulk of the British volunteers belong
to this arm. They are provided with the rifles
which the line has discarded. Untilquite recently
they had the old Snider rifle, which the line had
laid aside for the Martini-Henry. Now they
have the Martini-Henry, but the line is about to
be armed with a magazine-rifle. It was indeed
intended that the line should ere now have had
the new weapon, but the model first approved—
the Enfield-Martini —was found to be unsatisfac-
tory after 100,000 barrels had been manufactured.
The policy is as old as despotism. Monarchy ever
fears an armed nation. A standing army is the
reliance of the ruler against the ruled. With her
small force of regulars alone, Great Britain is not
safe against a foreign foe. But with an armed
nation the sovereign could not, should occasion
arise, trample down the people. The modern
British compromise is ingenious. The standing
army is equipped with the best class of weapons,
has almost a monopoly of the field artillery, while
the armed nation, destitute of the latter arm, is
kept inferior in efficiency by having always a dis-
carded weapon for their main dependence. The
resistance of the Tory Cabinet, now in power, to
the motion in favour of a more liberal treatment
of the volunteers is quite comprehensible. The
Tories have simply been true to their historical
policy. This is a short chapter of history
which Australians will do well to keep in mind.
The British-officered hirelings whom Parkes sent
to over-awe the Northumberland miners were
armed with Nordenfelt guns. But the Northum-
berland volunteers had no Nordenfelts.
Imperialist Impertinence.
We are not quite sure that the foregoing heading
is an accurate one for this article. It may be that
it is of pertinence we have to speak—not of im-
pertinence. The fact is that a Mr. Gedge,
member of the House of Commons in London, the
other day demanded that before the Secretary of
State for the Colonies finally dealt with the
Divorce Bills of New South Wales and Yictoria,
that Chamber should have an opportunity of
intervening. Lord Knutsford objected that
such a proceeding would be unconstitutional.
There are at least two fashions in which that ex-
pression of opinion may be interpreted. The
first, the most obvious, and the probably correct
■one, would be that the Secretary of State meant
to intimate that to approve or veto a legislative
act is the exclusive function of the Sovereign,
and that the House of Commons had best restrict
itself to its own business. The other interpreta-
tion is that Lord Knutspord meant to hint to
the member of the House of Commons that it
would be unconstitutional for that Chamber
to meddle with the Legislatures of the Aus-
tralian colonies. It will be perceived that
a very nice constitutional question crops up in con-
nection with this business. The Sovereign’s veto
is, as regards the enactments of the British Par-
liament, obsolete. It flourishes, however, in
respect to the Legislatures of the “Dependencies”
of Great Britain. But for reasons which lie on
the surface, the Sovereign takes no initiative in
the latter case. The Sovereign can know little
about the conditions to be considered. In reality
the Colonies —even those which have been granted
partial automony—have the Secretary of State for
the time being for their Sovereign. But the
Secretary of State is accountable to the Parliament
■of Great Britain. He is generally the creature of
the House of Commons. His position, being
bound up with the Cabinet of which he is a mem-
ber, is decisively dependent on the approbation of
the Lower House. It is, therefore, competent for
that Chamber to demand an account of any step
which he may contemplate. This is just what
Mr. Gedge, M.P., has in effect asserted. The
moral is, that Australians are living in a fool’s
paradise. They generally fancy that they enjoy
full legislative rights. In reality their Parlia-
ments are just what Goldsmith remarked of a
titular nobility—
Princes and lords may flourish, or may fade ;
A breath can make them as a breath has made.
With this difference that, in respect to colonial
Parliaments, the breath that has made them can
■unmake them. The claim asserted, unsuccessfully
in this instance, that the House of Commons
should review the legislation of the colonial Par-
liaments, may at any moment be successfully re-
vived, should a particular set of conditions dis-
posing the Imperial legislation to adopt that atti-
tude occur. This is a condition of affairs which
merits especial attention in view of the negotia-
tions which are afoot for the creation of a Federal
Australian Parliament. It must be a sovereign
body or it must be a shadow when proposals for a
Federal army have to be dealt with.
Dear Bulletin,—The value of the British
■connection to Australia is being remarkably
well illustrated over Australian Divorce Bills.
Not only have these been reserved for the
assent of Her Gracious, but the British House
of Commons wants to have a say about our
shocking social notions out here. This last
agitation is being led by Mr. Sydney Gedge,
the Tory put-up for Stockport, and who is a rare
kind of mongrel, being, as a solicitor, one of the
“Devil's Brigade,” and, as a lay-preacher of the
Church of England, one of the “holy saints
throughout all the world.” Sydney Gedge, M.P.,
is also a teetotaller of the kind acknowledged in
that sort of Church of England society which
(the Church of England having no backbone)
permits its devotees and members to take
swizzle “at meal-times only,” but forgets to
define what is “a meal,” or to prescribe how
many meals a day is the Church of England
Temperance limit. So the Hedges often get there
all the same. The Guardian, the English C. of E.
organ, also throws its surplice into the arena, by
declaring that “ it is impossible that the Australian
clergy could ever recognise the principles con-
tained in the Bill, despite the legal and social
pressure that might be brought to bear upon
them.” Much the Guardian knows about “Aus-
tralian clergy”—or any other clergy, for that
matter. And much the Australian layman
will care what the clergy thinks about
the principles of the Bill when it is law.
Sandy-haired Sydney Gedge, away in “ the
dear old mother land ” —scooping in School
Board fees wrenched from the poverty-stricken,
defending thieves for guineas on week-days and
preaching the Gospel on Sundays —is going to
compel, from his high throne in the British House
of Commons, 12,000 miles away, Barcoo Bob to
continue to be the husband of MerriAng Mary
and to keep aloof from the Speckled Hen, or
else “live in sin” with her —is he? Mr. Gedge
will be delighted to hear that Australians are. fast
extending their loose notions on divorce. Their
next Divorce Bill is likely to be a cruel separation
from “ the dear old mother country.”—C.
♦ ——
The S.M. Herald justifies the Sydney master-
bakers in their determination to employ non-
union men, on the curious ground that they, the
master-bakers, would otherwise be defenceless.
Says the Herald : —“What the masters stand
out for, and what they have a right to insist upon,
is the privilege of selecting their workmen and
employing those who are likely to give them the
best service. ” Of course, the journeymen bakers
who are non-unionists are also defenceless, and
those who are unionists demand exactly what the
master-bakers demand, viz.— “The privilege of
selecting their employers, and selecting those who
are likely to give them the boon they are asking
for—the employing of only unionist labour.” The
same logic will cut both ways, and the whole
question fines itself down to this—who shall
survi ve, the masters or the men ? It is the man-
hood-suffrage question all over again in a new
form. As the masters are something like a decimal
of the men, we should unhesitatingly vote for the
latter; the Herald, which, of course, considers
every man as about as numerically important as
the number of hands he is able to employ, will
doubtless vote for the master bakers. Both are
satisfied ! Next!
The sympathy which Australia displayed towards
the dockers has (not to speak of similar efforts
on the part of many other British philan-
thropists) encouraged a Mr. John Jones to post
over about half a million circulars appealing for
contributions to the London Samaritan Society,
a charitable institution of which the aforesaid
J ones is managing director, treasurer, and supreme
boss in general. A tract —viz. a sweet little yarn
about a family who were raised from the point of
dissolution, and put on the high road to fortune
all through getting a soup-ticket from the
Samaritan Society—is sent with the circular, and
reads uncommonly like a bantling of Jones’ brain.
But it is the circular itself that arouses our
strangest misgivings, because it offers to supply us
with further documents “ containing the testimony
of the Nobility, Clergymen, Ministers,” &c., and
starts by requesting that we will ‘ ‘ when replying
give full Name, Title, and correct Postal Address. ”
There is far too much stationery and exalted rank
about this Samaritanism, and although Jones
hopes “as in years past to provide free meals
during the winter for the absolutely destitute,”
we should like to know how much of our contri-
bution would go (if we sent one) in cream-laid
paper, postage stamps, and free meals for Jones.
The regretable want of a Title seems to debar us
of the privilege of assisting in this good work,
but we have sent our circular along to Lords Car-
ington, Hopetoun, Kintore, and Co. with a re-
quest that they will forward a cheque apiece and
procure for us that “testimony of the Nobility.”
If Lord Arthur Somerset has testified very
freely we shall withold our honorary patronage
from Jones’s little show.
This Premier Permanent affair in Melbourne
ought, for one thing, to lead to reform in audits.
A greater farce than the familiar banking or com-
pany audit cannot be imagined, when a couple of
tvyo-guinea-apiece men accept the managerial and
directorial assurances “Oh, it’s all right,” where-
upon they adjourn to whisky and biscuits. Ashame-
less fellow is your average auditor—always comes
upsmiling. Just beforethe Premier smashed he told
them it was all right, and the dividend was served
out in the biggest ladle procurable. The auditor
is like that obliging creditor on the stage, who is
handed £lOO,OOO in one dab of dirty notes, and
pockets it without inspection.
Captain Schaack, the chief police-officer of
Chicago, in charge of the Anarch hi cases three
years ago, has published a book all about them,
embodying a history of the Anarchist movement,
with biographies of its leaders, Most, Spies,
Engel, Lingg, Eischer, Parsons, and others.
Schaack writes that there are 3000 thorough
Anarchists in Chicago, and 30 known men pledged
to avenge the judicial murder of Spies. Engel,
Fischer and Parsons. The row three years ago
began with a, strike at M‘Cormick’s factory of
reapers and binders, Chicago, employing a large
number of hands. The police were called in, and
a striker was shot, which caused the bad blood.
Then ensued a disturbance in the Chicago Hay-
market, where a very large body of police attacked
a meeting to break it up. A glass bomb was
thrown among them by an Anarchist named
Schnaubelt, who escaped, and has never been
captured. The explosion killed eight, and
wounded 68. Then ensued the protracted trials
which resulted in the executions. Schaack takes
a gloomy view of the outlook. He declares that
the row of three years ago was only the first
detonation of Vesuvius. The verbatim reports
published in all the newspapers, and the marvel-
lous dignity and tranquillity with which they met
their doom, exalted the Anarchists into heroes,
and spread the movement far and wide. The
London Times has a long review of Schaack’s
book.
*
W. E. Abbott, M.P. (N.S.W.) thus gets right on
to the Freetrade-Single-tax position in the S. M.
Herald :
I take it that the basis on which the Single-tax League
is formed is the doctrine of Henry George, that the land
is the free gift of the Creator to man, and therefore no
individual has a right to property in land ; that land is
not created or produced by the labour of any individual,
therefore property in land by an individual is a robbery of
the landless majority by the landed minority. Suppose,
for the sake of argument, we accept this as absolutely
true, does it not follow that if no individual can with
justice hold property in land, neither can any company,
corporation, or syndicate (less than the whole human
race) hold such property, as the rights of a company, cor-
poration, or syndicate cannot be greater than or different
from the rights of the individuals forming such company,
corporation, or syndicate, andthemultiplication of nothing,
no matter how far carried, still amounts to nothing. If no
individual company, corporation, or syndicate can hold
property in land, then no community or nation (less than
the whole human race) can hold such property, as a com-
munity or nation is only a larger corporation associated
for mutual interest. The land belongs to the human race,
and the rights of every individual born into the world are
equal and identical with the rights of every other indivi-
dual. Now, I would ask, does it not follow from this that
the Chinamen have a right to the land of Australia equal
and identical with the rights of Australians? The Single-
tax theorists are nothing if not logical. Are they pre-
pared to accept in full and act on the logical conclusion to
be deduced from their own doctrine?
Yes, at the very moment that Parkes and Co.
assented to the exclusion of the Chinaman from
Australia they gave away the whole beautiful
Freetrade theory in one act.


Everybody should use Pemell’s latest best Snow-white
Patent Roller Flour. It is the greatest success of the
age.
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
[?]
846 Macquarie-street North, Sydney, March 19, 1890.
My Dear Moorabinda,—
During last week, in Sydney, ducks and tadpoles had a
good time, but ordinary individuals, not blessed either
with web feet or a transparent anatomy, took refuge in
oilskin and language, and women went about with anguish
in their hearts and their hair out of curl. The streets
were soup, and the pavements running water, but as Syd-
ney was socially as dull as the weather, the incessant
damp didn’t signify much. The awful social stagnation
is, of course, mainly due to the fact that the Lenten
season is in full cry, and if a high-church female asks you
to feed with her just now, put her off till Easter
week if you take my advice. Not being an exception-
ally ardent churchwoman, and forgetting for the
moment that the season of sackcloth is upon us,
I unguardedly went out to dinner last week. The menu
was eggs, bread, boiled fish with flour-and-water sauce,
and boiled rice without sugar ! The social atmosphere
was downright depressing. When grace had been
intoned, my hostess and her goslings (and myself for that
matter, since “ In Rome,” &c.) arose and crossed our-
selves solemnly ! The Lenten fanatics were very thorough
in their asceticism. One of these angels-eleot is having a
lovely gown built for the vice-regal chavoo on the Bth,
and in the drawing-room after the dreary meal above
mentioned I asked her how the frock was getting on?
Shall I ever forget the dolorous tone in which she replied :
“ They are commencing the skirt, but I’d rather not talk
about such trifling subjects to-night.”
Easter will soon be with us, and those matrons who like
their carnal dinner daily, will be rescued from their battle
with conscience-stricken hirelings who object to look even
at a bullock during the fasting season, and who won’t grill a
chop for fear of imperilling their eternal future. Horrible
tales are circulated during Lent of cooks found telling
their beads among the ashes of a cold grate as the masher
comes in with “ influential ” friends bidden to dinner ; nor
are examples wanting of distraught mistresses rolling up
silken sleeves and cooking a hot meat dinner while the
culinary staff cower in the coal-hole out of scent of the
stuffing to concilliate an outraged divinity. The horrors
of Lenten housekeeping are too awful to be particularised
for the ribald benefit of a possible bachelor reader, so I
will draw the veil of oblivion over them, adding only a
remark made to me by a well-known Sydney military man
recently: “ We keep three servants,” he said, dejectedly,
“ a cook and two maids, but my wife grilled the steak for
breakfast this morning.”
Whether it is that recent bad seasons have added
recruits to the ranks of shabby people whom it is desirable
to overlook, or whether it is that there really is something
radically wrong with Society’s optic nerve, Sappho is un-
aware, but the fact is that it is quite the correct thing in
Sydney just now to be painfully short-sighted. It is now
the period of the eye-glass-the paradise of the pince-nez,
which everybody dangles from a gold or silver or silk cord,
to raise—as superciliously as they can - and calmly, even
rudely, inspect a person or an object as if they were
naturalists and the individual some rare species of spider.
And then, if you see (as of course you do) an undesirable
acquaintance making frantically in your direction, you
simply let fall your glasses and assume that blank, un-
seeing stare, common to short-sight and vice-regality at
mob functions, while the Pickwickian party makes violent
signals under your very nose, and you glance blandly
full at it and pass by (figuratively) on the other side*
I expect some of the women who perch two panes of
glass joined by a gold or silver clip on their noses, as if
consumed with a passionate desire to view existence
through a perpetual window, do so from a visual neces-
sity, but I’m afraid the majority affect them from a wish
to be “ in the movement.” I was seated behind a dame
at a show recently who did great execution during the
waits with a very swagger pair of pince-nez on a swell
handle, without the aid of which she couldn't even
decipher her programme, it appeared. But I noticed that
when the lights went down and the “ rag ” went up those
pince-nez took a holiday, so to speak
Have you noticed that on representative occasions—
Society’s back hair is more carefully fixed up now than it
ever was before? It is rarely one is confronted by an ob-
ject with the hair parting in greasy strands at the back,
culminating on top in a rudely plaited disc, and at the
nape in a fringe of loose hairs that seemed pining to get
into the butter. Heads are arranged now with puffs and
frizzes and pins and perfume, and the result is often very
soothing. In a theatre the dressing of the hair is of more
importance almost than the gown.
Sydney dressmakers are over their heads in work just
now with the autumn garbings and ball fal-de-rals—the
majority of people preferring to give their orders too
early than too late. A spitting turn-out being constructed
for a local wearer is of Nile-green rep cloth combined with
real tartan (which same is a very large quarter-acre allot-
ment kind of check) in blue and green. The skirt is
straight and plain, blocked round the front with tartan,
the bodice having square Zouave epaulettes and collar of
the tartan. A ball-gown for the same individual is of
dahlia crepe, the skirt in accordeon pleats; the bodice of
dahlia silk with semi-medici collar designed in silver and
drapery of the crepe from the left shoulder on to the
right hip, where it is caught with clusters of violets, and
hangs in bows-and-ends fringed with silver on to the
skirt; epaulettes of violets. And, speaking of fashions,
tartans (even to tartan hose, and collars, and cuffs—
the other day I collided violently with a female who bran-
dished a tartan parasol) will wax this season, but the wise
woman will refrain from steeping herself in it from neck
to ankles, unless her purse be deep, for styles of this kind
are vended in sixpenny cottons at slop-shops almost from
the outset, and large flaring patterns are irresistible to
the pronounced tastes of Woolloomooloo, which ever
affects the striking in its promenade toilettes. A vest,
collar, and cuffs, or removeable drapery of tartan is
Sappho’s advice to those who cannot refrain from it alto-
gether. Short, stout women, and even tall, fat women,
should avoid tartan like sin. The only check they can
put upon themselves without exciting comment is an in-
finitesimal shepherd’s plaid, which, after all, is much
neater than tartan, and makes up into a very workman-
like, tailor-built gown. By the way, we have to thank
the Duchess of Fife for this autumn deification of Sandy’s
insignia.
Speaking of dressmaking, local damsels are either be-
coming more industrious or more poverty-stricken, for a
Sydney frockist complained to me that her clients were
fewer every season “owing to so many young ladies
learning the scientific dressmaking,” which she, of course,
unreservedly condemned. We all suffer just now from
the amateur Worth. You can’t pay a call without having
a corkscrew bodice with misfit sleeves brandished in front
of you, and you have to imperil your everlasting soul to
say something pretty about an article that’s only fit for a
Fijian. Some girls, of course, are compelled to make
their own dresses, and these usually take pains and turn
out a fairly presentable garment. But the damsel who
constructs her own garments from a whim, taking no
more trouble over it than if it were doll’s clothes, ought
to be banished to the kingdom of Uzizi where belledom is
poetically arrayed in seaweed and cocoanut-oil.
Perhaps it was because of the first moderately fine even-
ing we have been favoured with for a week that a full
dress-circle hearkened to the sob-strangled voice of the
“ Pointsman,” at Sydney Royal on 13th inst, while bees
in swarm hardly describes the condition of the other
parts of the Musgrovian temple. I was glad to see
Maggie Knight in the manager’s box, looking as fit and
as charming as ever in an Empire gown of sulphur silk,
lace shawl, white plume fan, her golden hair d la Grecque
and dotted with diamonds; while her companion wore
bright blue, a red fan and gig-lamps. The only other
point of dress-circle interest were Cupid Smith in mufti;
and a frisky society matron with braided hair and a big-
bunch of blush roses, who brought two preux chevaliers
to keep her balance true. Despite its lugubrious import I
like the “ Pointsman,” and if Edith Blande didn’t persist
in wearing her handkerchief hanging half out of her
pocket in every act, and would refrain at times of
deep emotion from hitting herself severely, I would
like her “ Esther ” too. The smash -up scene is
simply breathless, but I think a more real effect
would be obtained if there were a few shrieks and yells
and groans from the upset. To see people running off in
an every-day railway hurry, as if a burst-up express wasn’t
a thing to excite remark, and without even a “ save me
cheyild,” followed by a shrill squeal, is to waste an
especially golden melodramatic opportunity.
It is a painful fact that Lord and Lady Carington intend
to return to Victoria Regina’s bosom at an early date, for
at the meeting of the Women’s Fund-ites on 14th inst.,
her ladyship expressed her (polite) regret that this was
the last year of her presidency over the council. During
her martyrdom in our midst Lady Carington has been
visible president to any number of organisations, and
many’s the dusty statistical oration she has been obliged
to fire off as if she liked it, while the way she slaved for
the success of the W.I.E. in ’BB will cap a hard record of
industry for her successor to break. Which reminds me
that the adjacent she-Hopetoun very rarely gets beyond
the “patroness” stage at any public movement—the
arduous duties of a patroness being simply to allow it’s
name to be writ large at the top of handbills, and to
submit a modest contribution at misty intervals.
In reference to the N.S.W. Women’s Fund, I was pleased
to hear that the endowment has increased £219 3s. 6d. in
twelve months bringing the capital up to £16,243 12s. lOd.
Since May, 250 women were relieved, and the fact that
180 were widows, 41 wives, and only 29 single, throws a
strong light, equal to gas, on the foolishness of any wage-
earning woman forging Hymen’s rosy fetters with a
weak-chested swain whose sole assets are a penny pipe
and a toothpick. It speaks volumes for the gameness of
local femininity that none of the applicants were under
the age of 60 years.
Referring to vice-regality, I am told that the private
secretary of an Australian governor who was about to
give a ball ever so many years ago, received a letter from
a lady who aspired to invitations for herself and daughter.
After stating her giddy ambition she expanded into
further particularising ; “ though not blessed with a
plethoric bank-account my social status is unquestion-
able. My father was a clergyman, and my grandfather-
ditto.” I don’t know whether “ditto” got her paste-
boards, but the fact of having two Chadbands in the
family didn’t seem to make her “ shoot the lip ” at the
flesh-pots, anyhow.
“ Aigrettes of ribbon or feathers are the only permiss-
able ornament for the head of a well-dressed woman.”
This is truly awful, for—
I am weary, oh ! so tired of the way my sisters wear
That junk of ostrich-feather, or scrunched ribbon in their
hair,
And I fain would see revived, instead of dreary “ plume
aigrette,”
That ancient “ wreath of roses she wore when first we
met.”
No matter if the thorns should prick—or “ hugments ”
disarrange—
What, my dear sisters, is the odds so that we get a
change ?
If any more “ inflooenshal ” citizens, who, in the happy
yesterday, have made the winter season go by like a top-
hat on a high wind day, book berths for Yewrope, the
disconsolate butterflies left behind will be forced to club
together and give half-hearted subscription dances in
hired halls where the gas is turned off at twelve o’clock,
and the cloak-room fiend is reminiscent of onions. The
last entertainers to bid us au re,voir are Mr. and Mrs. C.
J. Roberts, who leave with their family per “Arcadia” on
29th inst. on a protracted visit to Hingerland, Mr.
Roberts having resigned his seat in the Legislative Assem-
bly for the purpose. As a set-off to these evanishments
the vice-regal people are expected to officially return dur.
ing the first week in April; the already popular mayoress
(Mrs. Burdekin) returned from Hobart on 13th inst: i
while the Caringtonian brother-in-law, Lord Hastings, is
billed to arrive this week.
Promenading between the misery is getting quite fre-
in Sydney theatres now, especially at Her Majesty’s,
where the space behind the d.o. is large. It is an agree-
able respite from the everlasting sit we have been doomed
to for so long, and, if you have a graceful gown, with a
soothing tail to it, it really raises your spirits to peacock
up and down for awhile. And, speaking of trains, my
frockist tells me that these dirty, troublesome additions
are coming in again for walking dresses! ! ! It is in
times like these that one yearns for just five minutes,
under Queensberry rules, with Grandmother Eve.
Almost all the hat-shapes for the coming season have
turned up brims and Spanish names, while the bonnets
are very like the favourite Prinoess, fitting close to the
face, for which let us be thankful, as no style is so becom-
ing. The crowns of said bonnets are rather fantastic as
to material, some being of cloth, embroidered and perfor-
ated. The tint to be known as Eiffel colour is very pretty,
but, of course, only an old friend under a new name, as is
also lie de vin, another new fashionable colour.
A rather well-known Sydney lady, whose looks, to her
great grief, were “ ruddier than the cherry,” endeavoured
a little while ago to carry out the bleaching process
according to the expensive instructions of a fashionable
hairdresser, but, in her zeal, she overshot the mark, and
scalded her unfortunate scalp, so as to leave it nearly
bald ! The poor thing was then obliged to make a virtue
of necessity and buy a wig. Needless to say it was of a
lovely golden hue.
Complexion-veils are not likely to go out of fashion in
Sydney so long as the lady supposed to be the leader of
the mode in these parts shows such a decided predilection
for little white falls, as to wear one during the evening
on those occasions when a bonnet is permissable.
Yours affectionately,
SAPPHO SMITH.
“ Adam "Bede ” is again in the held. This
time on the Sydney Gold Gup.
You are feeling out of sorts, are you ?
Then try Marshall’s Tonic Nervine.
A learned N.S.W. judge is learning the
bicycle. The. world moves. Judge Jeffries never
learned to ride the bicycle.
Mr. Postmaster-General O’Connor has
purchased a new door-mat. He has instructed his
water-bottle to be filled twice a day, and a clean
towel to be supplied every morning. He will be
out to dinner with his friends the remainder of the
week. It is his intention to rise early for the
future, although the mornings will soon be chilly.
Next Sunday he will wear his frock-coat and use
his new gingham.—From “ Doings of Great Men ”
in a Sydney paper.
Henry George’s forte on the platform, as in
print, is evidently the denunciation of “private
property in land.’' There he carries his audi-
ences with him, but when he leaves generalities
and comes down to particulars, or speaks of Pro-
tection, with his incomplete knowledge of our land
laws, and our economic conditions, he is somewhat
ill-at-ease, and is by no means convincing. In
replying to questions he is not happy, for he
has axjparently no sympathy with the ignorance
that prompts some questioners, and instead of
giving an explanatory reply, answers briefly with
an apparent evasiveness that suggests “shirking.”
In his more lengthy replies he usually repeats
himself and delivers a short lecture, not an
answer.
Quoting in the S.M. Herald the “ Wise
Words ” of great men, Sir Henry Parkes says
The English people are not believers in equality. They
do not, with the famous declaration of July 4, 1776, think
it to he a self-evident truth that all men are horn equal.
They hold rather the reverse of that proposition. At any
rate, in practice they are what I may call determined
inequalitarians ; nay, in some cases even without knowing
it. Their natural tendency, from the very base of British
society, and through all its strongly-built g'radations, is to
look upwards. They are not apt to “ untune degree.”
Thus quoting Gladstone with approval, Premier
Parkes, “a wise man,” and therefore a lover of
wise words, betrays once more a superficialness in
study and an indisposition to sympathise with the
principles of democracy. For the Declaration of
Independence speaks of an equality before the
laws, an equality of opportunity, it hinders no
one from “ looking upwards,” no one from climb-
ing upwards, the sole ladder to climb being
natural merit, the only objects of admiration, in-
tellectual pre-eminence, personal purity - in short,
not a worship of titular deities, but. of the Good;
the Beautiful, the truly Great,
The Melbourne Age jubilates over recent
events in South Africa, and chants that the gold
discoveries there will “give us eventually in
South Africa a British Province which may com-
pare with Canada and Australia in extent and
resources.” What, in the name of freedom and
democracy, has South Africa, as a British Pro-
vince, to do with “us”? Can’t the once demo-
cratic Age foresee Australia’s ultimate and un-
avoidable destiny, and can’t it help Australians to
become free in reality, and not in mere name,
while their land ranks as a dependency of a few
small islands 12,000 miles away ? Again, the
democratic (?) Age desires to see “ firmly estab-
lished ” in “the Britain of the Southern Seas”—
meaning, of course, Australia—“ a spirit of mili-
tary adventure.” No, sirree. War is the most
undemocratic fact the world contains. It is the
natural poison-fruit of tyranny and kingcraft, class
legislation and aristocracies. As Shelley wrote—
War is the statesman’s game, the priest’s delight,
The lawyer’s jest, the hired assassin’s trade ;
And, to those royal murderers whose mean thrones
Are bought by crimes of treachery and gore,
The bread they eat, the staff on which they lean.
In which of these categories, then, are we to class
Boss Syme, who, in the Age, pines on behalf of
Australia, for “a spirit of military adventure?”
He is not a “statesman”; nor a “royal murderer.”
Far be it from us to call him a “ lured assassin,”
yet Shelley has that trade down, as you see. And
the “immortal William,” in his “King Richard
IT.” declares that when war—i.e., “a spirit of
military adventure ” —is on the tapis—
Rich men look sad, and ruffians dance and leap.
The trouble between Judge Windeyerand
barrister Field in N.S.W. Supreme Court has
caused much talk recently. The friction dates
back considerably. There has been unpleasant-
ness, if not actual bad blood, between the men for
years. The Judge was once prosecuted for slander
or libel by Field in respect to some statements
made by him to. the corfmiitteo of the Sydney
School of Arts. Field was strongly dissuaded
from proceeding, but he is a man full of grit and
went right on, and though he was ruled out on the
ground of privilege, lie secured the sympathy of
the general public and-of the many solicitors who
were impressed by his pertinacity and fear-
lessness. When he first came_ to Sydney
he had an uphill struggle, and did not scorn
to turn his great physical strength into
money. After the trial he was forced into the
Bankruptcy Court by Judge Windeyer. In the
present case, so far as can be ascertained, the jury
appears to have sympathised with Field and to
have regarded the conduct of the Judge as over-
bearing and arbitrary. The Judge hinted that he
had a mind to commit Field for contempt, in the
interests of the dignity of the Supreme Court,
and it is almost a pity in the interests of the
public that he did not take that step, in
which event Parliament could hardly have
helped making a strict investigation as to the cir-
cumstances under which Judge Windeyer
neglected to take action, in the interests of the
dignity of the Supreme Court, with regard to
the monstrous criminal libels, to say nothing of the
astounding contempts committed against him as a
judge by the press of the N.S.W. Western Circuit
sometimeago. These matterswere publicly brought
under the notide of the Attorney-General, but the
subject was deliberately burked by the crawlsome
daily press. The Bulletin thanks heaven that
there is at least one barrister in the land who has
the courage of his opinions in respect to the judi-
cial demeanour of a functionary whose appoint-
ment cannot be regarded as an unmixed benefit.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Theatre Royal “ The Octoroon.”
Her Majesty's “My Jack.”
Criterion “Ours.”
Standard Theatre “Hamlet.”
Cyclorama Battle of Gettysburg.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Theatre Royal “A Man’s Shadow.”
Opera House Nellie Stewart Opera Coy.
Princess's “LaTosca.”
Alexandra “Robbery Under Arms.”
Victoria Hall Boston Ideal Company.
St. George’s Hall Cogill Bros. Company.
“ Ours,” one of Tom Robertson’s most
brightly-written works, lacks the sympathy-com-
pelling quality of its immediate forerunner at
Sydney Criterion. Much of its success depends
on scenic effect, and here, in spite of very hurried
preparation, Hedley Churchward undoubtedly
scores heavily. His park scene, with trees clothed
in the variously-tinged foliage of autumn, and a
background of blue hills and fleecy clouds, was
deservedly treated with a big round of applause.
The drawing-room scene is also effective, though
not so lavishly furnished as is usual at this house,
but the realism of the hut scene only misses per-
fection through the hidden roof. Geo. Titheradge,
as Hugh Chalcot, has the opportunity, in fact, his
character is the only one with which the audience has
an opportunity of becoming familiar, in complete
contradistinction to “ Caste,” where almost every-
one takes the audience into confidence, and without
doubt he makes the most of his chance. George
Anson is thoroughly consistent and truly artistic
in every situation as Sergeant Jones. In fact, in
the Crimean scene, Titheradge and he were the
only performers who did not destroy verismilitude
by appearing in a spick an I span band-box state.
Robert Brough’s Prince Perovsky is a long way
behind his Count Orloff; he neither looked,
dressed nor moved like a Russian, and, to a great
extent, simply walked through the part. For this
let the burden of sole stage-management excuse
him. J. F. Cathcart, as the fussy Sir Alexander
Shendryn, was dignified when the occasion de-
manded it, and, in the farewell scene, his simula-
tion of repressed emotion was convincing. Percy
Lyndal’s Angus Mac Alister did not in any way
suggest the “Highland laddie;” the tradition is,
we believe, that it should not; nevertheless,
a faithful delineation of national characteristics
never fails to be popular, and is always worth
the extra trouble. He was at all times
equal to his opportunities, but his clean-faced red
and white prettiness in the Crimean act was not
what might have been expected from a stage-
student of his thoughtfulness. Miss Romer has a
part after her own heart; Mrs. Brough, as Blanche
Haye, also scores as heavily as usual, but Pattie
Browne is not up to her “Caste” form. She is
too evidently “acting,” and the occasional pert-
ness in the tone of her replies to the haughty Lady
Shendryn is quite of place in the humble depen-
dant she acknowledges herself to be. In the
second act the marshalling of the unseen troops,
the sounds of approaching and retiring bands, and
the cheering of the crowd is very cleverly
managed, but the lightning and rain effects of the
first act were not, on the first night, at all events,
what they might have been.
** * *
At Sydney Standard, Geo. C, Milu’s
Hamlet is a praiseworthy and intelligent, but
yet patchy performance. In the columns of a
contemporary the actor is complimented -we
trust for the sake of the writer’s reputation for
sanity, sarcastically—on Ids physical qualifications
for the part. To our taste, however, Mr. Milu
lacks the stature and build, the flexibility of voice
and disposition necessary for the pourtrayal of
this mercurial personage. So far as we know,
Ophelia is Louise Jordan’s best performance ; that
may not be very high praise, yet in the mad scene
the actress was occasionally within an ace of being
triumphantly successful. Of the others, G. R.
Ireland, Kate Douglas, and H. N. Douglas were
least distressing, but the Ghost, who came on and
went off to circus-music, was certainly the most
drivelling and monotonous apparition ever evoked
by indigestion or evil spiri s. J. Montgomery's
“ Ho-ra-tie-o ” (Fh, Miln ?), clothed in a curtailed
tweed dressing-gown, mauve tights, and a Tam-o’-
Shanter, spoke in a throaty fashion and seemed to
steer himself through dialogue with his chin. The
bill will be changed on Saturday.
** * *
“ The Pointsman ” can hardly be said to
have caught on, at Sydney Royal. Its mest
attractive features are the beautiful scenery
painted by Brunton and Gordon, and the fine
mechanism of the railway wreck. Clara Cowper
improves on acquaintance, and is likely to be a
great favourite in time. By the way, why doc a
Edith Blande invariably strive to accentuate the
simulation of passion by dropping a ponderous
' palm with a lusty thwack on a substantial limb ?
Anger, remorse, irresolution, recklessness, anxiety,
fear, and other passions, are punctuated by sound-
ing smacks of equal intensity. If such sounds
and methods are necessary to effect, some variety
might be imparted by an occasional charge of the
point of contact. “The Octoroon.” replaces
“ Pointsman ” on Saturday.
* * -;ic-
“My Sweetheart” succeeded “Hans the
Boatman,” at the Opera House on Saturday even-
ing last. The damsel’s charms were not alluring
to any appreciable extent, and she vainly wrestled
with a part several sizes too big for her in presence
of an attenuated and apathetic audience. Another
Palmer —this time a male individual —drove
another nail in the coffin of the trumpery piece in
question, and his undertakerism was aided and
abetted by a set of mummers who formed an
assorted job-lot that could scarcely be knocked
down at a tremendous sacrifice. The consequence
was that a jerky and spasmodic performance
eventuated. The one exception to a general list-
lessness was Maggie Oliver’s Dame Hatzell. In-
trinsically, the piece is not worth a dump, and to
be rendered even tolerable demands marked ability
from its representers. Charles Palmer has
evinced a lot of courage during his short struggle
at the Opera House, but his feminine coadjutors
have not proved stable props in shoring up the
dramatic structures and several of the other per-
formers may prove more useful in a laundry or a
wood-yard.
* ' # * *
At Sydney Her Majesty’s, “My Jack”
continues to draw good houses and will run up to
Easter, when Wilson Barrett’s sporting drama,
“ Nowadays,” will be produced, in which William
Rignold will play John Saxton and Bessie Rignold,
his daughter, will make an appearance.


A GHOST
is not a photograph, nor a photo, a ghost—but a good photo, is a
true reflection of the original. For high-art photos, go to the
London Palace of Art, 10 Park-street, Sydney. Country photographers’ work from developement
to completion executed at lowest prices. Bromides a speciality, Staff of artists kept for working up,
■ The Edison Phonograph Society have
offered to give no less than £3OOO for the first
thousand words spoken into the instrument by
Stanley.
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
“ Ladies, do you want to be strong, healthy and
beautiful ? Then use Dr. Soule’s American Hop
Bitters.”
Reliable Watch Repairs. Patims k Co., King*?!. Arcade.
The Bondi Sunday concerts continue to
grab the Abernethy on the Day of Rest, and on
other days various entertainments attract large
crowds of sight-seers and ozone-sniffers.
5k 5k 5k >K-
The Hazun orchestral Saturday afternoon
concerts continue to grow in public favour.
5k * * 5k
The Gettysburg Cyclorama continues to
receive a great share of the public “ shugger.”
* m * *-
At Sydney Palace Museum a complete
change of programme is announced.
* 5k 5k *
Active preparations have been made for
the appearance of Grattan Riggs, in his farewell
season at the Adelaide Royal. Great things are
prognosticated respecting the scenery of “The
Shadows of a Great City,” and also the company,
and Messrs. M‘Mahon’s agent (Mr. Middleton)
has been trying to work up a sensation.
5k sk * 5k
“La Tosca,” the cleverest and most
gruesomely fascinating of Sardou’s plays, can
hardly fail to carry even Mrs. Potter through a
successful three weeks at Melbourne Princess’.
The first two acts have evidently lost weight by
translation from the French, but the last three
are so masterly in construction as to leave no
room in the mind for wondering whether they
were better in the original. A trio of great
characters absorb all the interest of this great
work, the scene of which is laid in the
Rome of a.d. 1800. La Tosca, an operatic
soprano, has bestowed her warm affections on one
Cavarodossi, an artist of Republican tendencies.
Baron Scarpia, a high-toned policeman, armed
with authority to wipe anybody out without call-
ing in the Judge Jefferis of that period, con-
ceives an ©fficial passion for the lovely Tosca, the
fact that she wouldn’t willingly touch him with a
pitchfork lending an unholy zest to the Baron’s
love-affair. Circumstances favour the Baron.
He discovers that an escaped political prisoner—a
hungry-looking Roman, who never buttons his
shirt at the neck, is concealed on the premises of
Cavarodossi, whereupon he sends that enlightened
artist into a side room, and orders myrmidons to
drive nails into him until Tosca, naturally upset
at the thought of her best fellow becom-
ing steadily perforated, admits that the hungry
individual is concealed at the bottom of a well.
Before disclosing the truth Tosca endures agonies
of conflicting emotion. Through the half-opened
door of the torture chamber, her plucky mash ex-
horts her, between his groans, to say nothing, and
every time she says nothing the Baron orders more
holes to be made in the invisible victim. That
this scene doesn’t freeze the marrow of the audi-
ence is entirely due to Mrs. Potter. Her delinea-
tion of mental agony only narrowly escapes from
degenerating into a feeble joke. To resume; however,
upon the political offender, getting wound up from
his we 1 ! in a bucket he turns out to have suicided,
whereupon the' baffled Baron orders his dead
corpse to be strung up beside the damaged artist,
and then gammons Tosca that he will arrange for
the live man’s execution not to come off on condi-
tion that she consents to repose for a brief period
upon his cruel, baronio bosom. But while the
crafty villain is writing out a bogus reprieve
Tosca takes aflat-edged fish-slice from the Baron’s
supper-table and makes a miserable pretence of
jabbing this inane weapon through his waistcoat.
When he has tumbled down on the floor she further
pretends to lay the Baron out, with candles at his
head, and slinks forth to discover subsequently
that her lover’s life hasn’t been spared at all.
Then Tosca arouses herself, and as everybody of
consequence has come to a tragic end, the mildly-
interested assemblage disperses, wondering what
sort of an entertainment this would be when a first-
class actress played the leading character.
# * *
Mrs. Potter’s American origin is apparent
at the outset of “ La Tosca,” when she affects to
be playful and talks like Katie Putnam. Later
on she adopts her usual stage voice, and does her
best to conceal the fact that she is murdering the
creation of Sardou’s genius. As Mrs. Potter ap-
pears to own the Australian rights of the play,
there is no present hope of seeing the name-part
even tolerably well interpreted, so while this
lady does not suffer by comparison she can
keep free of ridicule. Of her appearance
in some more dresses Worth it may be bluntly
stated that Mrs. Potter isn’t a circumstance .upon,
say, Signora Majeroni. The Signora’s costumes
were equally good for stage purposes, and she wore
them always with infinitely better effect than the
overrated lady from Boston has the natural grace
or acquired art, to produce. Kyrle Bellew has a
very soft thing in Baron Scarpia, because the part
is one which plays itself up to a certain point. A
calm, collected career of dramatic villauy can be
walked through acceptably by any actor of good
appearance and large faith in himself. Bellew
makes up, however, so as to suggest young Bouci-
cault in the same character, and those to whom
this suggestion occurs will probably close their
eyes and dream of how much better is one Bouci-
cault than 1(> Kyrle Bellews. In any other company
Sass would not seem a satisfactory Cavarodossi,
especially when he emerges from his trouble with
the general appearance, of a man who has just
disposed of a dozen oysters and a small bottle of
Guinness. Possibly Sass is under orders not to
act too much, for fear of showing some of the
others up. Anyhow, the religious care with
which he refrains from returning Mrs. Potter’s
embrace reflects great credit on Sass. His modera-
tion is indeed striking evidence of a profound
respect for Mr. Potter, It should please Potter
to know that Sass is a monument of propriety in
the dramatic hugging way, and that his love-
making is an unwilling sacrifice on the altar of
artistic duty. Minor parts are of little conse-
quence to “La Tosca,” which has been beautifully
put upon the Princess’ stage.
5k 5k 5k 5k
Other Melbourne shows glide peacefully
along. “ Robbery Under Arms ” has still a large
following at the Alexandra; the last nights of
“Nemesis” are attended by good biz. at the
Opera House; and “Streets of London” fetches
them, in moderate numbers, to the Royal. The
halls likewise hang on to the tail-end of prosperity
with considerable determination, but a desperate
struggle for existence is likely to ensue aftar April
5, when Messrs. Brough and Boncicault come
back to fill the gap they left behind them a year
ago.
5k 5k 5k 5k
Meantime two notable productions are
billed for Saturday. Firstly, Nelly Stewart and
a big company, in “Paul Jones,” are bound to
have a great send-off at the Opera House. Just
across the road Charles Warner will trot out “ A
Man’s Shadow ” for the first time in Australia.
This drama is alleged to be one of Buchanan’s
best, in which case it is to be sincerely hoped that
Warner will have the goodness to draw his impor-
tant character mild.
From the gallery of Melbourne Alexandra
one night last week, a warm-hearted maiden
yelled forth that Captain Starlight didn’t want
two bits of muslin {risking round him at the same
time, so the wrong one had better clear. A
chucker-out promptly seized the impassioned six-
penn’orth, and heaved her violently down the back
stairs.
5k * its *
After the bad lecturers who have strutted
a brief hour on the platform during the last few
years it is refreshing to read that the Rev. Charles
Clark is already on his way back to Australia, and
that he will commence a new tour in Melbourne
shortly after his arrival. He was the first and
best of the lecturers —in fact, the only real lec-
turer we have ever had. Other men, like Forbes
and Sala, had the name ; Clarke had the talent.
Clarke also was personally popular. He did not
alienate anybody by putting on frills, and lie
never quarrelled with any literary club. Clark
has been away just long enough. All his old
friends will be glad to see him again ; while during
the ten years he has been away a new generation
has grown up that knew not Joseph, but which
has heard a good deal about him. It is to bo
hoped Sydney Centennial Hall will be ready in time
for the King of Lecturers.
At Poverty Point.
Kyrle Bellew did make his first public appearance in
N.S.W. It was at the old Solferino Diggings, where he
played Fathom, in “ Kiss in the Dark,” Mandeville, in the
“Young Widow,” Lavender, in “Turn Him Out,” and
Harold Hawk, &c.,in Pearce’s Theatre.
Miss Florence Menk-Meyer, the pianiste and composer,
has achieved a great success at Ballarat, Sandhurst, and
Geelong. She performs in Sydney soon.
“ Jolly” John Nash is at present in Sydney. His health
is bad.
William Rignold is half a size bigger than brother
George. His most noticeable original parts have been
Jacques in the “ Two Orphans,” Gouget in “Drink” and
“ Adam Bede.”
Jefferson’s Reminiscences include a good chapter on the
old Australian favourite, Sir William Don, with a portrait.
His height, was 6ft. 6in.
G. R. Sims, the dramatist, lately wrote a Christmas
tale, introducing a comic character he named after him-
self, as Simpson, manufacturer of a wondrous magic soap.
Strange to say, there is a Simpson in Melbourne, inventor
of a soap, and very like Sims’s portrait.
Reading of the immense success of Wagner’s operas in
New York, one asks when another Lyster will arise to
give us grand opera. Surely he was successful enough!
And has Australia gone back since ?
French actresses change their magnificent toilettes
quickly, in five minutes, by having the dress, all com-
plete, slit down from top to bottom.
Mary Anderson has recently informed Novelist Black,
“ in order to set all discussion at rest,” that she is en-
gaged to marry Banker Navarro, of New York. Some
time ago this was rumoured, and in reply to an inter-
viewer Navarro modestly declared that he thought the
lady would prefer to enter a convent. This assertion,
mayhap, brought her to the sticking-point.
Folks will yet remember the “ Victoria Lofus Burlesque
Company now we are told that it was sent to tour the
world because a Yankee named Calverley came into pos-
session of several tons of posters and other prints thus
stamped, and so he got hold of a Miss Violet Hunt,
previously a chorus-girl in his company, rechristened
her “ Victoria Loftus,” and launched the venture on poor
unsuspecting Australia.
Married, on Feb. 19, at Sydney, Miss Maggie Langeville,
of Mr. Rignold’s Company, to George Seth Coppin, the
younger, of the “Little Lord Pauntleroy” Company.
Jane Hading writes ; “ In my opinion marriage and art
do not mate with Hymen. I counsel great artists not to
marry. To be united with one’s art ought to satisfy any
man or woman.” It doesn’t. As a rule the trouble is to
get off the old love after they’re on with the new.
When Mrs. Brown-Rotter gets hack to San Francisco
she will possibly take libel-actions against some of the
local papers we have just been reading. We presume that
they still have some sort of a libel-law in ’Frisco.
The most astonishing fact in connection with the Potter-
Bellew season is that the Argus has given something like
honest criticism of the latest imported genius, instead of
indiscriminate “taffy.” James Smith has been giving
Cora and Kyrle beans.
An American writer English actors in America
also have much to do with giving Americans wrong ideas
about English society. Few—very few—English actors
are gentlemen. They mostly come from the middle, if
not the lower, classes. They know little or nothing of
the ways of English gentlemen, and, consequently, can
not exhibit a reliable portrait of a gentleman who called
upon to act the part of one. Charles Matthews, the
great comedian, was a gentleman, and so was Sothern.
Then there is an actor called Sugden, who, being related
to Lord St. Leonards, must be classed as a gentleman.
There is also another named Benson, who has just leased
the Globe Theatre. Beyond these four, I cannot put my
finger on one who would be classed as a gentleman in
England. They know this themselves quite as well as
I do.” Beautiful!
A Wellington (N.Z.) lady recently called on the manager
of Wirth’s Circus to hand him Is. lid., her son having in-
advertently handed the ticket-seller a penny in place of a
florin.
A N.Z. lady-writer lately asserted that Eille Norwood
was engaged to Miss Lilian Seccombe. Eille, seeing an
“ad.” sticking out, at once rushed into print to deny it.
As a matter of fact, Miss Seccombe has been engaged for
some time to the doctor of one of our largest mail-
steamers, and Mr. Norwood is just now not in a position
to contract a matrimonial engagement
Adam Forepaugh, the big American circus-proprietor
died recently of “ the grip,” aged 59. At one time he
had 39 elephants in his show, and his duels with Barnum
for circus supremacy are almost world famous.
As Violetta, in “La Traviata,” Patti wears £15,000
worth of jewels. An American paper styles her the
“ great artist and farewellist,” and greets her with song
thus :
The tuneful Patti comes again,
Without the least compunction ;
Perhaps she thinks her last good-bye
Lacked in the proper unction.
But when, alas ! once more she has
Our dollars decimated,
Perhaps she'll tell the cunning spell
By which a positive farewell
Can be reduplicated.
Sarah Bernhardt was once playing Camille at Milan.
Prices had been doubled, and so, though the house was
packed, it was cold and unsympathetic. The first inter-
mission was too long, and when Bernhardt went on in the
second the irate Maccaronis hissed heartily. At the end of
the act she sent her maid out for something which was
handed her just as she went on for her interview with
Duval. The scene progressed, Sarah seemed very hoarse,
she cleared her throat, passed her handkerchief over her
mouth, and suddenly rose and faced the audience with a
terrible set face; an instant later a stream of blood
burst from her lips, and she fell headlong into
her comrade’s arms. The curtain was rung down,
the audience waited tremblingly to hear of the
poor creature’s death. An actor came forward and
made the following announcenientLadies and gentle-
mert, —Our comrade, Mile. Bernhardt, not wishing to
disappoint you, desires me to say that if you will consent
to ten minutes’ delay, she will endeavour to finish her
part.” And at the end of ten minutes the play proceeded
amid frantic enthusiasm, the enthusiasm of a Southern
audience carried away by such heroic self-sacrifice, and
was brought to a triumphant conclusion. Never had the
“ golden voice ” been more clear and bell-like. “ How did
you do it, Sara?” asked one of her comrades. “They
bored me by their conduct,” said Sara, “so to wake them
up I sent for a small bladder filled with beef-blood and
popped it to my mouth when I raised ray handkerchief to
my lips, then I bit it and you know the sequel. Voila !”
Mr. E. Lewis Scott declares that “in spite of wicked
reports to the contrary, the late B. N. Jones was in
straightened circumstances when he suddenly died.”
B.N.’s intimates are responsible for the reports—they
declare that he has often told them that his life was
heavily insured. Mr. E. Lewis Scott is hysterical.
When about to leave New Zealand, some of Darrell’s
Company preferred to remain behind in order to join St.
Maur’s “Jim the Penman” crowd. George having,
according to their account, agreed to pay their
return fares, the deserters demanded their passage-
money, and Darrell proving obdurate, headed b/
Frank Gerald they served him with “a bit of stiff” at
Dunedin railway station just as he was leaving with the
rest of his company. To avoid delay, the actor-manager,
who has never yet been known to do a mean thing,
signed an order on the U.S.S. Co.
The drowsy sub-editor and boss printer of the Sydney
D.T. were aroused from their rosy dreams one Friday
morning lately, by shots, shrieks, and a tremendous ex-
plosion. Scenting a good thing for a “second edition”
the thoroughly awakened sub. rushed downstairs and fell
over a policeman who was keeping the office door-mat
warm. “What’s up, sergeant?” said the slave of the
pen. “Anyone killed?” humbly enquired the other
galley-slave/ “ Nothing’s up ; nobody’s killed,” said the
disturbed watcher of the night, “ they’re only rehearsing
the ‘ Pointsman,’ at the Royal.”
The N.S.W. Supreme Court continues to reserve judg-
ment as to the legality of Solomon’s Sydney Sunday
concerts.
The Howe-llolloway Company are still doing well in
Tasmania.
A Sydney amateur named Charles Ritchie, intends to
foot tire boards professionally.
R. S. Smythc leaves Sautley in charge of his son while
he goes on tour with Charles Clarke.
The genial Gunther informs ns that “Hans the Boat-
man ” has not been a financial failure, at Sydney Opera
House ; that the ghost lias walked regularly and the
treasurer visited the bank daily guarded by a posse of
police. Appearances are deceitful, and.beauty, even that
of theatrical managers, is vain, so possibly we may have
been wrong, the apparent thinness of the house notwith-
standing.
“Joe” Brown pilots “Little Lord ‘Funky-boy”
(Cogill’s joke) through New Zealand.
Charles Arnold “ Hans the Boatman ” crowd have been
snowed up in Oregon. The local Hans w T as “ frozen ” out
in Sydney.
George Leitch will appear with Nellie Stewart as Petit
Pierre in Paul Jones at Melbourne Opera House.
Owing to weak support, Gilbert and Sullivan’s “ Gon-
doliers” is a financial failure, in New York. The Mirror
calls it “ The Gone-dollars.” G. and S. have our gondol-
anoes,
Shillitoe, killed in Melbourne by a gas explosion, wgs
at one time secretary to Alfred Dampier and David
Christie Murray, and at the time of the accident was
treasurer to the M’Mahon Brothers, at the Opera House.
He also dabbled in literature.
Some one asserts that A. C. Gunther’s “ Two Nights in
Rome” is a mere paraphrase of “Forget-me-not,” in
which Genevieve Ward made a big Australian hit.
Said the lessee of a Sydney theatre “ I shall have the
Plouse entirely repainted soon.” “ Indeed,” replied John
Levison, “ I thought it had been well 1 papered’ lately.”
The model French virtuous actress of our time is
Madeleine Brohan, but she has unfortunately retired
after 35 years’ favoritism in Paris. She never would
accept the slightest gift. An English admirer left her
£12,000, which she handed over to his relations.
Boncicauit has a law-case in America against Buchanan
tor piracy. Everyone of Boucicanlt’s 350 plays is taken
from something else. Even the “Octoroon,” with its
American colouring, is from a French piece.
Dan Barry lias recovered, and is on the road from Mel-
bourne with a dramatic company.
For St. Patrick’s night the Melbourne Hibernian
Society billed “ Robert Emmet,” the play, in the
Hibernian Hall. Emmet is the logical Irishman. No
inscription is to be- placed on his grave “ till Ireland
takes her rightful p(ace amid the nations of the earth.”
Joe Thompson's daughter Leah has been admitted as a
pupil at the London Academy of Music. Like her book-
making father, Miss Leah has a fine voice.
A young woman goes round with Johnny Sheridan’s
“ Fun on the Bristol ” plaiing the banjo, and plants the
Banjo Fiend all over Victoria. Worse than the trombone
fiend ; the cornet, euphonium, fiddle, or concertina fiend
is mild influenza to it.
k That prince of humbugs, Barnura, lately delivered at an
Earl's residence, as a lecture, a short sketch of his life and
adventures in aid of the Irish Home Industries. Every
anecdote related was grey before Barman was out of
knickerbockers.
The play of the “Streets of London,” now running at
the Melbourne Royal, is the same that was acted there,
under the title of the “ Streets of New York,” on the night
the old Royal was burnt down, early in 1872. It is sup-
posed that the fire scene left some sparks, which smoul-
dered in the old scenery.
Mrs. Langtry is very ill in France. Her losses are
ruinous, through having “ As Yon Like It ” ready staged
in London.
“ The human race is a great one,” said he.
“ Yes,” said the widow to whom he was engaged ;
“ I am now on the second lap.”—Ex.
Ex-Minister Lyne has got the gout. The
N.S.W. National party want a lot more stumping
exercise. The Bulletin will be glad to receive
tenders from those willing to rush Lyne round the
Domain every morning for two hours before six
o’clock.
The editor of a Melbourne weekly news-
paper has been writing over to Sydney asking
literary men and others to write their own lives
for publication in his paper. We notice that one
or two blushfully modest people have already
availed themselves of the offer.
On St. Patrick’s Day the accomplished and
illoquint Postmaster-Gineral hoisted the British
Royal Standard on the Sydney General Post-
office, ‘‘ to show that there was no ill-feel -
ing betnne him and the Quane.” Perceiving
this, Baron Carington instantly sent an
A.D.C. down to the Post-office with a thunder-
ing message to the effect that the sacred piece of
coloured rag was to be hauled down at once, or
Daniel would be reported to the Government.
The O’Connor surrendered at discretion and made
a profuse apology. These little things amuse the
minds of the magnates to whom Australia is
foolish enough to pay thousands a year for doing
nothing.
| |C. J. Roberts having resigned his seat in
the N.S.W. Assembly for the Manning and Hast-
ings, the vacancy will be contested by Messrs.
M’Kinnon (National Protectionist) and Vivian,
who holds views of the Parkesian or revenue-tariff
order. This advocate of a mongrel policy
has been shamefully treated by the N.S.W.
Foreign-trade party, who, whenever they have
a hard seat to jump, send along the poor,
innocent young man and encourage him to
spend his money in getting licked. The local
farmers, now that Adelaide ship-owners are paying
the wheat-shippers half-a-crown a ton for the
privilege of carrying their wheat and flour to
Sydney as ballast or dead weight, will hail with
delight the advent of Mr. Vivian, who by the aid
of a jaw that nothing can humble, will be able to
show them how glorious a privilege it will be for
them to compete with nigger-grown wheat from
India and other portions of the blessed Empire to
which Messrs. Vivian and Co. are so glad to
belong.
CORRESPONDENCE
“ A.J.W.”: The Newcastle Evening Standard
is, we believe, edited by Mr. Thomas Corrigan.....
“Cayuga”: Thanks “J.E.F.”: Thanks—handed to
artist... .“ E.M.D.”: (1.) Protection gained, coupled
with Federation and intercolonial Freetrade, land
nationalisation will be desirable ; by that time Aus-
tralia’s industries will be established. (2) Taylor
is well and will probably come, out “ J.L.G. ’
(•Pietermaritzburg): Many thanks “ W.E.” : Try
again “H.C.C.”: We prefer subjects to be
treated broadly “ A.M.” : Thanks “E. J.
Gilbert ”; Only about 100 electors of Canterbury
have called upon Hutchinson to resign. There are 17,000
electors on the roll “C.H.” (Brisbane): Thanks....
“ W.W.8.” : Many people held that the release of Mount
and Morris was through a conspiracy from the first to
give them a bogus sentence. One of them was said to be
related to persons high in authority .. “5.0.0.”: Tin-',
Bulletin proprietary issue no paper other than The
Bulletin, and are interested in no other paper
“ Swab ” : The value of any man’s opinion may be gauged
by his fitness to opine and his credibility as an opiner
“J.L.0.”: Thanks “C.W.”: Letters to hand. Many
thanks .. “A. 0.”: What’s the good of taking a ballot
after a political discussion ? The result of the poll all
depends on which side has managed to do most stuffing...
“O.O.” ; No solicitor in New South Wales is allowed more
than three articled clerks at the same time... .“E.C,” :
Christ did not say (as Mr. Ninian Melville alleges) that
“ the poor ye shall always have with ye,” but “the poor
ye have always with ye.” The statement applied to the
present and possibly to the past, but not necessarily to
the future. Shakespeare wrote something like this:
“ The Devil can cite Scripture for his purpose; an evil
soul producing holy witness is like a villain with
a smiling cheek, a goodly apple rotten at the heart.
O what a goodly outside falsehood hath ”
“ Henry Holmes ”: (1) Tub Bulletin pays for contribu-
tions. (2) It is a matter of arrangement, but, as a rule,
sweeps go with the stakes. (3) Of course not; the smoke
does not travel towards your eye, nor does your eye go
towards the smoke. You can always see the smoke and
fire from a pistol before you hear the report... “ A W.M.” ;
Thanks. “Water-mill ” already published.... “ J.F.E.” ;
In type,. “ C.E.”: (1.) The Protectionist Jennings Govern-
ment passed a land-tax through the N.S.W. Assembly.
(2) The Victorian Protectionist party taxed the land de-
spite the fierce opposition of the revenue-tariff or loca*
Parkesian crowd....“ E. Abdy ”, : Head the Freetrade u.
Protection controversy between Gladstone and Blaine in
the latest North American Review, and see which comes
out ahead “Disgusted”: “The Vagabond’s” story
about hell “ only needing water and good society to be a
desirable place of residence,” was related by Lazarus to
Dives, who pinched the poor man for giving him stale
news “J. Osmond”: The French-descended popula.
tions of Lower Canada are not “at a stand-still,” but are a
strong, healthy, progressive, and intelligent race “E-
Burton ” ; Ours may be a very bad morality, but we
wouldn’t give twopence for the woman who wouldn’t tell
lies to save her hu-hand's liberty.... “ Gordon”:
Yes, he is of German extraction....“ Yarraman ” : Why,
the mining-prospectus has a lisc of eighteen direc-
tors, ten of whom are members of Parliament.
How much do you think they paid?... “G. Macks-
worth ” : If it is more or less an open question
with the Single-tax party whether a man who has bought
land direct from the Crown should be exempt from taxa-
tion on the amount he gave for the ground, how about
the man who has bought the ground at second or third
hand, and paid full value for it ? The State had no right
to sell the ground and he had no right to buy, you will
say. As a matter of fact the State has sold the ground
and has encouraged people to buy it, and has always re-
garded land-purchase as honourable and commendable.
We admit that the State hasno moral right to sell ground.
Nevertheless the State is rich enough to keep faith with
those to whom it has been sold and their heirs and assigns
and it can no more afford, from The Bulletin’s
point of view, to set an example of dishonesty by re-
pudiating its bargains that it can afford to com-
mit murder. Suppose the State had promised
an individual a certain amount of ground in alternate
blocks on either side of a proposed railway-line con-
ditionally on the company finding the money to construct
that line, would you think it honourable or manly for the
Government to turn round after the line had been com.
pleted to say—“ Thanks: we’ve got your railway-line,
and now you can go to the devil for the land we promised
you?” Whether the State openly lays violent hands on
the land promised or taxes away its value without com-
pensation is all one so far as principle goes. And that is
why the Single-tax agitation must be a dismal failure
“ J.G.P.” : Is it a private dig or is it founded on a public
occurrence? “ Boggaboori” : Why not send to local
paper ? Useless to us “ R.M.” (Nagambie): Right!...
“ Fidio” : If you write much in this vein you’ll never
need to commit suicide “Constant Subscriber” (O.
Towers); “High interest means bad security.” We
would only venture a very small investment. None of
the companies have yet smashed, but they do as they
choose and are subject to no supervision... “J. Dowling ’>
(Sandgate): Will read for next week “ T.E.E.” : We
are now investigating the matter. We believe that if, as
stated, a certain manufacturer has pocketed £30,000 profit
at the expense of the farmers for such a small item as
binding-twine, a gross swindle has been committed. Up
to now, however, the Victorian farmers have been
much better off than those of New South Wales
“ Subscriber E” : Meaning thereby that as no money was
necessarily available in future from that source for the
purposes of charity, we had given up all interest in the
thing. This, however, implied no reflection whatever on
the conductor, whom we believe to be perfectly honest.
You can see it drawn if you like, or get a friend to attend
[Many letters held over.]


WOLFE’S SCHNAPPS!
,£l2OO a year given away in 1 Orders
Is superseding all other spirits.
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
The Choicest Jewellery. Daiims & Co., King-st, Arcacte
Everybody says—and what everybody says must be true
that Pemell’s Snow white Patent Roller Flour is the
best in the market.
Macaulay says, Ur. Johnson frequently
offended more senses than one. The Doctor did
not use McDonald’s Perfect Nail Trimmer and
Cleaner. All chemists. Price one shilling.
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
Everybody should use Pemell’s latest best Snow-white
Patent Roller Flour. It is the greatest success of the age.
Write for plans £lO Building sites, Perth,
Western Australia. Intercolonial Investment
Company, Limited, 90 Bathurst street, Sydney.
Ladies’ Silver Watches, 355. Daiims & Co., King-street
Arcade.
Our New Horse.
A. Racing Rhyme.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
The boys had come back from the races .
All silent and down on their luck,
They’d backed ’em straight-out and for places,
But never a winner they struck.
They lost their good money on blogan
And fell most uncommonly flat
When Partner, the pride of the Bogan,
Was beaten by Aristocrat.
And one said, “ I move that instanter
We sell out our horses and quit.
The brutes ought to win in a canter,
Such trials they do when they’re fit.
The last one they ran was a snorter
A gallop to gladden one’s heart —
Two-twelve for a mile and a quarter,
And finished as straight as a dart.
“ And then when I says, ‘This’ll do me,’
And back them to win me a swag,
They’re licked just like donkeys—why, bloo me !
They’re licked from the fall of the flag.
The mare held her own to the stable.
She died out to nothing at that,
And Partner he never seemed able
To pace it with Aristocrat.
“ And times have been bad and the seasons
Don’t promise to be of the best;
In short, boys, there’s plenty of reasons
For giving the racing a rest.
The mare can be kept on the station,
Her breeding is good as can be ;
But Partner, his next destination
Is rather a puzzle to me.
“ We can’t sell him here, for they know him
As well as the clerk of the course ;
He’s raced and won races till, blow him,
He’s done as a handicap horse —
A jady, uncertain performer,
They weight him right out of the hunt
And clap it on warmer and warmer
If ever he gets near the front.
“ It’s no use to paint him, or dot him,
Or put any ‘ fake ’ on his brand,
For bushmen are smart, and they’d spot him
In any sale-yard in the land ;
The folks about here could all tell him,
Could swear to each separate hair.
Let’s send him to Sydney and sell him,
There’s plenty of Jugginses there.
“ We’ll swear he’s a maiden, and treat 'em
To trials —will open their eyes ;
Well run their best horses and beat ’em,
And then won’t they think him a prize !
I pity the fellow that buys him—
He’ll find in a very short space,
No matter how highly he tries him.
The beggar won’t race in a race.
“ And lor ! won’t his face be a long ’un
The day that the stewards come down,
And find that his maiden’s a ‘ wrong ’un,'
They’ll give him the rounds of the town—'
A twelvemonth’s suspension at lightest;
But once that the horses are sold.
That won’t trouble us in the slightest,
Well laugh as we pocket the gold.”
Next week, under “ Seller and Buyer,”
Appeared in the Daily Gazette :
“ A racehorse for sale, and a flyer,
Has never been started as yet.
A trial will show what his pace is,
The buyer can get him in light
And scoop all the handicap races.
Apply before Wednesday night.”
He sold for a hundred-and-thirty,
Because of a gallop he had
One morning with Bluefish and Bertie,
And donkey-licked both of ’em bad ;
And when the old horse had departed
The life on the station grew tame.
The race-track was dull and deserted,
The boys had gone back on the game.
, , , • • 4
The winter rolled by and the station
Was green with the garland of spring,
A spirit of glad exultation
Awoke in each animate thing;
And all the old love, the old longing
Broke out in the breasts of the boys.
The visions of racing came thronging
With all its delirious joys.
The roaring of floods in their courses,
The rattle of rain on the roofs,
Recalled the fierce rush of the horses,
The thunder of galloping hoofs ;
And soon one broke out: “ I can r uffer
No longer the life of a slug,
The man that don’t race is a duffer.
Let’s have one more run for the mug.
“ Why, everything races, no matter
Whatever its method may be—
The waterfowl hold a regatta,
The ’possums run heats up a tree,
The emus are constantly sprinting
A handicap out on the plain—
It seems like all nature was hinting
It’s time to be at it again.
‘ The cockatoo-parrots are talking
Of races to far-away lands,
The native-companions are walking
A go-as-you-please on the sands,
The little foals gallop for pastime,
The wallabies race down the gap;
Let’s try it once more for the last time,
Bring out the old jacket and cap.
“ And now for a horse—-we might try one
Of those that are bred on the place,
But / think it better to buy one,
A horse that has proved he can race.
Let’s send down to Sydney to Skinner
(A thorough good judge who can ride),
And ask him to buy us a spinner
To clean out the whole countryside.”
They sent him a letter as follows ;
“We want you to buy us a horse,
lie must have the speed to catch swallows,
And stamina with it, of course.
The price ain’t a thing that’ll grieve us—
It’s getting a bad ’un annoys
The undersigned blokes, and believe us,
We’re yours to a cinder, ‘ The Boys.’ ”
lie answered : “ I’ve bought you a hummer,
A horse that has never been raced ;
I saw him run over the Drummer,
He held him out-classed and out-paced.
IPs breeding’s not known, but they state he
Is born of a thoroughbred strain,
I paid them a hundred-and-eighty
And started the horse in the train.”
They met him —alas that these verses
Aren’t up to the subject’s demands !
Can’t set forth their eloquent curses
For Partner ivas back on their hands!
They rode in to meet him in gladness
They opened his box with a cheer —
NOT QUITE.
Scene—N.S.W. Bankruptcy Court.
ATTORNEY (to usurious witness).
“SO YOU LENT THE
BANKRUPT £30 AND HE
REPAID YOU £70 IN
TWO MONTHS, AND
YOU SAY HE STILL
OWES YOU £25. ISN’T THAT ABOUT 3000
PER CENT. INTEREST?”
USURER: “YELL, VAT OF THAT? DO YOU
THINK I LEND MEIN MONISH FOR
NODINGS?”
A silent procession of sadness,
They led him off home “ on their ear.”
And life has grown dull on the station,
The boys are all silent and slow,
Their work is a daily vexation,
Their grub don’t agree with them now.
Whenever they think how they stranded
They squeal just like guinea-pigs squeal.
They bit their own hook and were landed
With fifty pounds’ loss on the deal.
BANJO.
Someone “writing” in Brisbane Tele-
graph has rehashed Henry Lawson’s verses on the
wreck of the Derry Castle ; published in The Bui.
letin some years ago. We can’t blame the 1 sub-
graph, but trust that when next literary thieves
proceed to trade off hash upon him they will, out
of deference to the fact that he is an ex-clergyman,
steal from the Psalms of David so as to give him
a fair show of redeeming his literary reputation.
AN.S.W. up-country court had recently
to suspend business owing to the disputes of a
large number of dogs who had followed their
owners'in. The police-inspector’s dog was badly
bitten, and the saynyer-constable was scarcely
able to keep his hands off the owner of the other
canine, and one old man who was upset by all the
dogs bolting between his legs cursed so confusedly
that he was committed for contempt
Barnes the Hook-Agent.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
Barnes was an itinerant book-agent. He had
been in times almost everything in the whole
gamut of Australian experience: bank-manager,
storekeeper, settler, shearer, dummy, civil servant,
bush missionary, bullooky, dead-beat, digger and
doctor, and be it said to his credit and in.admira-
tion of his versatility whatever the sphere in which
he was called upon to gyrate by fickle fortune,
Barnes believed himself bound to do justice to
that position, and did it. When he was a bank-
manager he was sufficiently important and dis-
tinguished-looking; he cultivated abelltopper and
an aristocratic embonpoint, and was quite as cold
and proud as the circumstances seemed to demand;
in the character of dead-beat he discarded all
meretricious polish and superfluous flesh and
watch-chain, and ran to seed about the head, and
advertised his want of a bath wherever there was
an opening in his clothes, and was as tired and
insanitary a dead-beat as a man could well be
with only six months’ start; as a bullooky his
style was persuasive and his language vigorous
and forcible, and as an M.D. he resumed the Pans
hat and the embonpoint, and was proud but
courteous, reserved but affable —he would have
made an excellent medico had he only known
anything about the inside of the business.
Mr. Barnes had drawn upon his reserves to
transform himself into a competent book-agent,
and was a judicious blending of many past
characters; the respectable obesity of the banker,
the polish of the doctor, the insinuating courtesy
of the storekeeper, the pleading eloquence of the
bush-missionary, and the fire and vigour of the
bullooky, in admirable conjunction, went to make
up one of the most invincible book-agents on the
r °lf Mr. Barnes set his mind on selling a man a
book, two opportunities of terminating Barnes
persecutions remained open to that man : he could
buy the book or he could hang himself. Now
and again a man hung himself, and a
week’s eloquence and patient persecution were
thrown away ; but Barnes was not often imposed
upon in that manner —never, if tact and spryness
could avert the catastrophe. They say that he
once had a farmer near Toongabbie set for over a
fortnight, and drove up in his buggy on a Satur-
day afternoon, intent on settling the business, but
the agricultural person had seen him coming and
gone out into the stable and choked himself with
a leg-rope. The enterprising agent, however, was
too smart for him; he out him down, and secured
his signed order for a big new publication before
he had recovered his presence of mind. Another
client whom he had in hand drowned himself in a
creek whilst the book-hawker was visiting a dis-
tant township, and Barnes insisted on attending
tire funeral as chief mourner, and he sold a Bible
to the disconsolate widow on the way back by
playing on her tender susceptibilities with the
assertion that her lamented husband’s demise had
been accelerated by the want of the spiritual con-
solation and mental pabulum contained in that
beautifully-bound, half-calf, gilt-edged, and artis-
tically-illustrated volume of Holy Writ; price,
three guineas.
Mr. Barnes was travelling for a Bible Society,
but, although devoted practically to the spread of
sacred literature, theoretically he refused to poll
for revealed religion; the rsle of Freethought
lecturer, in fact, was amongst the others on his
repertoire, and when he was in congenial society,
engaged in optical observation of the wine when
it was red, which was his favourite evening amuse-
ment, he delighted to base himself on the broad
principles of science and common-sense, and
criticise the prophets, and demolish the preten-
sions of Genesis, and hold up the devil to scorn
and contumely. After which he would be delighted
to sell any gentleman in company a copy of Cassil’s
Illustrated Family Bible for home use, and was
content to follow the chosen individual to his own
door-step and conclude his panegyric on the mat,
so long as he effected a sale. When Mr. Barnes
had resolved that any individual was in need of a
Bible lie did not allow sect, or creed, or any phase
of theologic belief to interfere with business, and
was as zealous in his dealings with a Chinaman
as with a devout Methodist oi’ a hard-shell
Baptist.
At one time Mr. Barnes was putting up at
Traralgon (Vic.) for a few days, with a view to
spreading light and learning about that somewhat
benighted locality ; at the same hotel a band of
rail-splitters were making a cheerful week of it,
and one evening, under the inspiration of rum,
these festive young gentlemen conceived the
idea of playing off a harrowing practical joke on
the peddler of sacred literature. Remembering
Barnes’ professed contempt for all things super-
natural, the maul-slingers determined to put those
opinions to the test. A few ounces of yellow soap
in Blue Peter’s long moustache and goatee assisted
in bringing them out to the orthodox Meplus
tophelian points. Peter had once been closely
associated with a powder explosion, which left his
face freckled with cerulean blotches, and ugly
enough to officiate as the devil’s phiz, without
any further “make up,” and a child's red hood, a,
red bed-quilt cloak, two ram’s horns, a lyre bird’s
tail-feather and a pair of cow’s hoofs served to
transfer that gentleman into a very passable stage
Satan in a dim religious light. The dim religious
light was provided by spreading a sheet of blue
paper over the disc of a bullseye lantern. Then,
posed in a striking attitude in Barnes’ room, with
a coloured fusee ready to burn immediately on the
advent of the agent, Blue Peter was ready to
strike consternation to the soul of the scoffer and
drive him howling.
Meanwhile the rest of the boys were down
stairs in the bar-parlour priming Barnes with
whisky and horrid goblin tales, the former of
which he received with appreciation and gratitude
and the latter with scornful incredulity.
When Mr. Barnes started for his private apart-
ment that night his usual overweening passion for
trade seemed to be tempered by speculative
philosophy and “Old Highland.” He steadied
himself once or twice on the dark stairs to point
out to an imaginary audience that the supernatural
was incompatible with good sense and modern
thought, in a voice that was clouded and un-
wieldy, and as he fumbled at his door the practical
jokers who had followed stealthily kindly crouched
back against the balusters to give him a clear and
uninterrupted fall to the ground floor when the
anxiety should cease him.
The wound-up agent succeeded in opening his
door at last, and Blue Peter struck up his fusee.
The spectacle was truly weird and awful. Barnes
seemed amazed for a moment as he swayed in the
door-way, but he did not yell, neither did he start
downstairs on his ear, and the boys felt that all
the snap had gone out of their joke, but they
waited for the true fearfulness of the situation to
dawn upon their victim.
Mr. Barnes’ face expressed astonishment, then
incredulity, then curiosity. He brushed his hat
back behind his ears, and scratched his brow, and
appeared to cogitate. Finally he spoke, and his
voice was full of wonder and surprise—he said
“ Well, thish lickshell!”
He took his visitor’s measure again from the
feather in the red hood to the cloven hoofs pro-
truding from beneath the scarlet cloak, and then
he brightened up.
“ Gla’t’shee (hie!), shee yeh!” he said. “Howja
do? Sho’m I. Sh’down (hie!). Got shomeshin
here’d li’ t’ show (whup!), show yeh !” And he
entered the room, closed the door behind him and
locked it.
The boys were dumbfounded; they gathered
about the door and listened. Barnes was talking
earnestly and rapidly—they heard such words as
“bound in morocco,” “shplenid art illustrations,”
“gilt-edged,” “cash,” “beautifully printed,"
“hot rolled,” “ now’s sha opportunity,” “in every
family,” and other stock trade terms, and after
waiting three-quarters of an hour they decided
that the the atmosphere up there was very dry and
uninviting, and they went down to the bar to
wait for Blue Peter.
Another hour went by, and Peter had not re-
turned, and the party were discussing the advisa-
bility of going up and skirmishing for his remains
when he was heard coming wearily down stairs.
The poor devil was all broken up. He entered
the bar towing the hoofs behind him and carrying
a large volume under his arm. He dumped the
book down on the counter, and then turned on the
company, and threw off a small, facial, bilious
attack in the way of a smile.
“Holy gridiron ! Pete, what’s up? What yeh
got there? What yeh been doin’?”
“ Doin’?” said his Satanic Majesty, “nothin’,
on’y buyin’ this book. An’, see here, you fellers,
you was in the joke an’ yeh darn well gotter take
a share in this. ”
“ Thunder ! ye don’ meanter say ye’ve let him
run a book in on yeh !”
“ I do, but couldn’t help it. That Barnes talked
me clean into it. He talked me giddy. Said th’
book wus jes’ th’ thing I wanted—said there wus
a lot about me in it —abuse an’ vilification an’
libel, an’ all that; said I had a good case agen th’
publishers fer deformation o’ character, an’ talked
an’ talked till my ideas got drunk. I couldn’t get
away an’ had ter buy k. Barnes said I couldn’t
getter long without it, wus a fool if I didn’t sue
th’ firm fer fifty thousand quid—said th’ book
called me a roarin’ liar an’ a cattle-duffer an’ a
horse-thief, an’ was agen me from sunrise t’
campin’. Youse never heard Barnes talkin’ with
a clear run, yeh can’t dodge it. He’s got me done
right up an’ I’ve parted fifty-bob for this lot, an’
youse ev gotter stand it, ’twas your joke es much
es mine. I don’t play th’ devil agen Barnes
no more, remember—th’ odds is too much agen
me!”
“What’s the book, anyhow? Great Scott!
Stuff me if be ain’t sold the devil, ‘ Cassel’s Illus-
trated Family Bible ! ’ ”
The splitters looked at each other for a moment
in dumb amazement, and then their lips opened
simultaneously and they said -Well, what they
said was not necessarily for publication.
After the linked profanity long drawn out the
young men decided on the vote of the majority
that they would play off no more practical jokes
with goblins in them on Barnes ; they also agreed
that they would not recount their little game
about the township as they had intended, out of
consideration for the feelings of the book-agent.


■hw^V- ;
d
G (Sioi®^
Cblebrat/o
KJ
V.
m
St®
&r
QC
six
x i
ď
Of the 30 newspaper-men who “ did ” the
Johnstown disaster only two, it is said, escaped.
They suffered constant exposure and hunger, were
constantly breathing the vapours arising from
thousands of decaying bodies, and, in the absence
of roads and bridges, were exposed' to all kinds of
perils.
BUGGIES, BUCKBOARDS,
—AND—
VICTORIAS,
At MANUFACTURERS’ PRICES.
Send for Catalogues and Prices to
THE F. B. WHEELER CO.,
2«6 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
POLITICAL POINTS
One-third of the entire population of New
South Wales is located within a radius of 15 miles
of Sydney.
Henry G f eorge says he “ believes in
nothing half-way.” Then why is he not a land-
nationalisationist or a Socialist ?
Some people of anti-monarchical tenden-
cies ventured to hiss “ God save, &c.,” at the
Brown-Potter opening night.
Gov. Hopetoun is a Protectionist. Protec-
tionist Caulfield has just joined the Single-taxers.
Beautiful are thy compensations, O Nature !
.John Morley says that it takes 20 years
for a new and good idea to mate its way in the
House of Commons. And in the House of Lords ?
The Democratic Club, in Melbourne,
flourishes. Visitors are surprised at its fine, new
three-story building, erected specially, in Lons-
dale-street.
The new N.S.W. National party consists
of Messrs. R. Atkinson Price, H. Tennent
Donaldson, and Alfred de Lissa. Vide Austra-
lian Star, March G.
Mr. Foxall, chairman of the Henry George
campaign executive, which wants to confiscate all
land-rent, is secretary of a building-society which
trad es off allotments.
George says that “ ignoble feelings are
aroused by Protection.” t9f a similar brand to
those aroused by Chinese exclusion, of which
latter restriction you approve, dear sir.
Henry George says “it will not pay
N.S.W. to federate at the cost of Freetrade. Let
everything come in free, and you will see what a
tremendous business you will have.”
Henry George having left Sydney, Premier
Parkes lias returned. When George returns,
Parkes will go away again. George makes no
secret of his opinion of Parkes’ foxing.
J. P. T. Caulfield has found grace and
been received as a Single-taxer into the bosom of
Henry George. From this we presume he has
given up all idea of standing for Parliament.
Sir John Bray will not take the Speaker-
ship of the S. A. Parliament again, owing to his
determination to resume active politics. Dr.
Cockburn, if circumstances permit, will be the
new Speaker.
The N.S.W. Single-taxers, it is said, awe
endeavouring to get Michael Davitt. who is an
enthusiastic Land Nationalist and favours the
Single-tax, to follow Henry George on an Austra-
lian lecturing-tour.
Everyone should read the Financial
Reform Almanac (English), just out; it costs
only a shilling, and exposes all the swindles of
Royalty and the Pension List. Constant drop-
ping wears away stones.
“ Trade is always the harbinger of peace,”
says the prophet of San Francisco. Is it ? Think
again—what of Britain’s little and big trading
wars all over the world? With America, China, in
Asia, in Africa, India, Egypt, Sumatra, every-
where.
Earl Hopetoun told the Working Men’s
College folk the other day that “he did not want
to see Australian industries ground down by cheap
goods senefrom abroad.” Gammon from the man
who imported all his own liveries, carriages, horse-
flesh, and retinue.
The total taxable landed property of
Georgia has increased in 10 years 53 per cent. ;
the taxable landed property of the negro has in-
creased 83 per cent., and the assessors’figures
show that a similar state of affairs prevails right
through the Southern States.
Mr. Alex. Hutchinson, M.P. for Canter-
bury (N.S.W.), has been asked to resign because
it is alleged that he attempted to have two wives
at once. The Bulletin asks mercy for Hutchin-
son, and suggests that Sir Henry Parkes should
use his great moral influence in this unfortunate
matter.
At a Queensland banquet, last week, the
National M.L.A. for Fortitude Valley, Chief
Justice’ Lilley’s old seat and Premier Morehead’s
bugbear, for he lives there, and it won’t listen to
him—he’s gob to go out among the sheep for
election—lifted up his voice before them all and
prophesied thaj; there would “never be peace till
Tamtnie came hame. ”
The Emperor William of Germany has
affirmed “ the divine right of kings.”
Emperor Bill, with his notion of kaisers,
Is basing his faith on a lie, sirs;
“ The divine right of kings ”
Shall find itself wings,
And monarchs go spouting up geysers.
J, L. Purves, Q.C., President of the
Australian Natives’ Association of Victoria, is
barking up the wrong tree. He demands for Aus-
tralia “perfect equality in the Councils of the
Empire.” Australia doesn’t want to be part of
any Empire at all; her final destiny is abso-
lute Republican independence, complete self-
nationality.
Doesn’t it strike one as strange that the
English Government takes pot the slightest notice
of the strikes? Salisbury, bound up in European
politics, treats a strike with more indifference
than a mosquito. Drop into the House of Com-
mons to-night, and you’ll find them in Committee
over Burials in Churchyards or something of the
sort. O, ye blind !
The N.S.W. teetotallers are at issue with
Henry George, under whose fiscal system liquor
would not be taxed. George claims that un-
customed grog would give a death-blow to adul-
terated (“bad”) liquor; but then, say the tee-
totallers, all grog is bad, and the Georgian system
would allow every man to be a law unto himself
on the swizzle question.
Premier Morehead, of Queensland, i s
certain to resign. He intends to go to England,
and has declared he won’t take the Premiership
“’ome ” in his pocket as Griffith did three years
ago. Either Macrossan or Donaldson will get
into Mblwraith’s vacant chair, and inside a year
there’ll be a scrimmage, for theoldMTlwraithians
are getting tired and may kick over the traces at
any time.
In a recent issue, Mr. A. T. Saunders
contradicted The Bulletin’s statement chat the
“Single-tax” and “Taxation Reform” Leagues
were running against each other at tlie S.A. elec-
tions. Our statements are borne out. Birks, of
the Taxation Reformers, and Sellar, of the Single-
taxers, are both running for Port Adelaide con-
stituency, and are undoubtedly running against
each other.
Edward Bellamy lately told a large Boston
audience what the “Nationalists” demand: —
“ Their final purpose is the Government ownership
of everything for the benefit of all. Meanwhile,
they mean to try for the nationalisation of only a
few leading industries. Tim coal business is one
of these. They demand that the coal lands le
the residential clause.
(AN EPOSODE OF THE RECENT FLOODS.)
SELECTOR (the one in the tree): “ I SAY, LOOK ALIVE, BILLY, MY SON; GIT
OVER TO YER SELECTION QUICK AS EVER YER CAN. YONDER
COMES THE BLOOMIN’ INSPECTOR IN A PUNT.”
resumed and worked to their full capacity, coal
furnished to consumers at cost, and the miners
humanely dealt with.”
Editor Bulletin, —Don’t make any mis-
take. John Norton is a certainty for South
Sydney next time, that is if “Jim” l oohey, M.P.,
does not Juggernaut him beneath the beer-barrel.
Norton says that he is a Protectionist first and a
Local Optionist next; but if any attempt is made
to induce him to bow to the boss of the bung, he
will show fight, and make the contest one of
Brains v. Booze. — Protectionist.
Henry George will be interested to learn
that the latest way to sell N.S.W. Government
land to the bloated squatter is for a land-agent to
shut the common public out while the squatter
enters the land-office by the back door and con-
stitutes himself the only bidder. “Now, what
shall we say for this lot, Mr. Swills? Ten pounds !
No advance on ten pounds ! Going, going, gone !
Mr. Swills, ten pounds.” (Proceeds to put up
next lob.)
Dilke makes some peculiar mistakes as to
South Australian politicians in his new book.
Referring tp Kingston, he describes him as weak
in will and an “excellent debater.” This is
wrong. Kingston is extremely strong-willed, but
he is not “an excellent debater.” He is some-
times forcible and powerful, but, as a rule, he
gives way to temper so much that his eloquence
in debate is completely thrown away. Kingston’s
chief value to his party is in working behind the
scenes. Sir Charles refers to Downer as “ a man
of steady perseverance.” Downer is a terribly
lazy politician. He is rarely to be seen in the
House when out of office. Kingston, on the other
hand, is simply politics-mad. When Parliament
is in session, his private practice is neglected for
politics.
Personal Items.
On 21st instant the convict Bertrand com-
pleted his twenty-fourth year in gaol.
J. L. Toole’s 60th birthday was last week.
Waited a long while before he came here.
Henry Battenberg, at latest, still con-
tinues to desert his wife and mother-in-law.
Boulanger, it is said, is now completely
broken up and has lost all courage and hope.
Lady Clarke guarantees the cost of a hostel
for lady students at Trinity College, Melbourne.
The succession of the earldom of Cairns
cannot be settled yet, as a posthumous child is to
be born to the late earl.
Mr. Stronach, late editor of the Town
and Country Journal, has been appointed
editor of Sydney Echo.
A grateful Chinese importer across the
Murray has christened his first-born mongrel
“ Henry Parkes Ab Koon.”
Two of the present N.S.W. Ministry com-
menced life as butchers. They both continue to
slaughter—the Queen’s English.
In the window of a shop in Bridge-street,
Sydney, may be seen, in a frame, the dishonoured
promissory note of an Australian Premier.
The two richest women in England are
Miss Talbot and Lady Howard De Walden, each
of whom is worth over three-and-a-half millions.
An active juryman at a recent N.S.W.
Quarter Sessions was a gentleman who once got a
good “ stretch ” for embezzling a big sum, and did
every hour of the time.
Governor Jervois lias a large station in
South Australia. He has no great affection for
governorships, and pines to represent a consti-
tuency in some Australian Parliament.
Willoughby Andrew was recommended to
mercy by the jury, and yet the N.S.W. Executive
is not going to hang him ! Which is the most
extraordinary thing The Bulletin ever heard of.
Lindsey Cooper, night overseer of the
S.A. Register, celebrated 50 years’ service on
the staff of that paper on Saturday, March 1,
1890. He has held his present position 23 years.
We are told that R. L. Stevenson’s next
book will be called “South Sea Stories, - ’ and that
one of the collection called “ The Pearl Fisher ” will
make its first appearance in an American journal.
Mr. F. Bevill (of the Primrose League)
has been appointed secretary of the N.S.W.
United Licensed Victuallers’ Association. Mr.
Bevill weighs about twenty stone, and will look
his new part to perfection.
Sam. Horden has a 2000-acre estate at
Bowral on which he is forming a colossal orchard.
He says he means to be the biggest fruitgrower in
N.S. Wales, and will not be satisfied until the
orchard returns him £5,000 a year profit.
David Christie Murray says “ lie thinks
that if Sir Henry Parkes had been born in the
position of Bismarck or Gladstone he would have
exercised an influence commensurate with theirs.
He is essentially and potentially a great man.”
Mr. Jacob Pitman, brother of the inventor
of shorthand, has just died at Camperdown,
Sydney, aged 81. He was a very old colonist,
having arrived in South Australia during the
reign of Governor Hindmarsh, 53 years ago, and
was the first phonographist to land in Australia.
A New South Wales semi-millionaire, who
died last week, made the backbone of his huge
fortune by selling “ lollies ” in a little shop in
George-street, Sydney.
A semi-crank, lately sentenced to life-im-
prisonment for homicide, is the illegitimate son of
an English peer, and is, in a left-handed way,
related to the present Governor of one of the Aus-
tralias.
Francis Hodgson Burnett, lately accused
by Mrs. Winthrop of plagiarising “ Little Lord
Fauntleroy ” from Wilfrid, was once bowled-out
in having “ memorised ’’ a beautiful fairy tale,
which she had written for the St. Nicholas
Magazine, from an ancient English book of fairy-
tales.
J. R. Cox, the Home Rule delegate, is
very much like Lord Kintore, and has been mis-
taken for him. When Mr. Oox starts speaking,
however, his brogue soon corrects any mistake m
that direction. If Kintore had a brogue like Cox,
and the same eloquence, he would soon find he was
wasting time in governing.
Hr. Whittell, the Adelaide coroner, is
most business-like. When the inquest on the
Hon. J. R. Ramsay was over the other day the
clock pointed to 4.28. The doctor seized his bag
and hat, caught the 4.30 train to Glenelg, held an
inquest there, and was home to tea at 6.15.
.Promptness like this makes the doctor very popu-
lar with the corpses.
Mr. Frank Rogers, Q.C. , who originally
defended Raper. charged with embezzlement from
the N.tj. W. Office of Titles, received 170 guineas
therefor. Before the third trial Mr. Rogers re-
funded half the fee named for the defence of
Raper, whose means were at a low ebb, and said
that if necessary he would give the whole, as he
was convinced of Raper s innocence. Here you
have a lawyer with a conscience.
A link between old Van Dieman’s Land
and new Tasmania has just “crossed over ” in the
person of Samuel Bellamy Holman, an old soldier
who is alleged to have arrested “ Gabbett,” Mar-
cus Clarke’s cannibal bushranger. We say
“ alleged ’" because, well remembering what we
have read in the official records, we are perfectly
sure that Mr. Samuel Bellamy Holman did nothing
of the kind.
Thuth remarrs that the Duke of Cam-
bridge, from any point' of view, had as good a
right to marry Miss Farebrother as Prince s
Louise had to marry Lord Lome, Princess Louise
of Wales to marry the Duke of Fife, Princess
Beatrice to marry Prince Henry of Battenberg,
and Princess Mary of Cambridge to marry the
Duke of Teok, none of their husbands being of
Royal birth.
£2,000,000.
That’s a goodly sum, isn t it? Suppose your sell
the happy possessor of that amount. What wt utd
you d > with it? Would you follow Mr. Paling’s
noble deed and build a sanatorium for the sick?
or would you follow the lead of “Jubilee ’ Benson
and play it up, and finish in a continental gaol ?
Fancy what you could do with two millions ; you
could visit and view the sights of the old and new
worlds, you could keep a splendid establishim-nt,
have scores or servants at your beck and call, you
could keep your horses and your hounds, your
guns, your yachts, your town and country houses,
you could hunt, fish and travel and live a life of
continual pleasure if —Oh ! that “if” it always
creeps in—if you had good health ; and if you had
bad health and could not enjoy your great posses-
sions, what good would all the money and riches
in the terrestrial world be worth to you ? good
health is the great desideratum —preserve it while
you have it, for it may be lost for ever if you
neglect it. While on this subject we want a few
serious words with you. Every man and woman is
the centre of the world to himself, therefore look
after yourself and those belonging to you, preserve
your strength and take note of the small particulars
of daily life, we went to impress this particularly
upon you—you, Reader—we are addressing you
personally—take care of the small signs of con-
stitutional disturbance, don’t neglect a simple
headache because it is so general, such pains
cannot be in a healthy organism, physical disturb-
ance cannot be where all organs are performing
their functions with clock-work exactitude. Like
a small spark spreading into a great conflagration,
disease begins in a little wav. so little that its first
onslaught is frequently unnoticed, but it gradually
extends, until too late. Take good advice, attack
the first signs by a vigorous treatment with
Clements’ Tonic, which so renovates and fertilizes
the blood, that it will quickly restore the impaired
power of any organ or tissue. Clements’ Tonic
is a scientific combination. Its therapeutic effects
are proved. That it will allay and prevent disease
is beyond all doubt, the praise bestowed on it
over the signatures of the highest and most in-
fluential people in the land, will convince the
most sceptical.
Mr. F. Bagnell, Ravenhurst, Marriokville,
N.S.W., writes us : “Dear Sir, —Allow me to add
my testimony to the many endorsements you
have already received, proving the excellence of
Clements’ Tonic. My wife has been suffering
for the past two years from weakness and debility,
and has tried many treatments without result,
she, as a last resort commenced the use of Clements’
Tonic, and I am thankful to say the effect has
been most gratifying, and I am firmly persuaded
that it is a complete restoration of perfect health.”
Full particulars and endorsements on appli-
cation to F. M. Newtown, N.S.W. ; or
at Melbourne, George and George ; at Adelaide,
F. H. Faulding and Co. ; at Wellington (N.Z.),
Kempthorne, Prosser and Co. ; at Hobart and
Launceston, L. Fairthorne and Sons, and all
dealers everywhere.


77ie /sf-oceect/acrs of-/fa //i/e^a(?o/iccL
CeA-ferevce <?/' /Ser?/y
cere To SeCo/ictucfec/' /J t rfe
4
e^c/us/irel'i. 0
s/es~e you,
cc 3r//7sA
v c/'e/e^'G’/e
£pc/ea \ro/-//t<k
So r/se 7s
fi a feis/
7
V\
V
$ \
' BE} * )
A few days ago Sir Henry
received tie following letter from tie great poet:
“ Farriagford,
“Freshwater, Isle of Wigit.
“My dear Sir Henry,—l send you from over the
convex of onr litfle world, which you are doing your
best to make better, my choicest thanks for your
volume of poems and your kind and affectionate dedi-
cation, and, moreover, congratulate you that you have,
not unsuccosslully, interwoven the laurel of lie Muses
with the civic wreath which you wear as a statesman.
“ Vours always,
“ Tenntbon.
London, Saturday Night.— M. Pasteur
the distinguished French chemist, complains
bitterly of the “ perfidy of the Government
of New South Wales” in denying to him the
reward of L 25,000 offered for the best means
of eradicating the rabbit pest.
S/nr/Le /AX
1 '7O J
Va I > ,
H R,y Cf C
y /%e recey/ i'a./^s
CL Cartels uy> aad carried acesay a /bard'e/ Joqes /arid and c£c*AfosU~e\_ _
i'Zo*l Sco/d? S cancC. d>auld l/ar Se Considered 'Unearned /n crenpenf~»
d-er- 73 -/Cray
Jre/r/eacou (j'unHpr tc/o/ecfefs &>6y’So /eo>o/
Me you.no /%■<?// of fusTra/coo enter Moranks
i of ffe te M/z/fa Mat Me-///yefa s
Cofr/<? for Jic sff a I to. To "crrou? Apr otor
Curettes' "
0/?e O/ f/ze Unerq&loyed - look'ft?re loss
//L. y/ Tfyerel a cOa.ca.ycy, Sdoyi
tytftci <yo'/y ' o/y locclet-'s. / /V<P
7>f’eci else f "
y e/ey cfo^e'ct <6oy/y&
a. /- ypcc /h/rro ye ly.S./ye- oM ercfay
' ~ o*lo,l THAutes '/y
v / yoSTercCays oyyy old
cuijtT jKcAAats
c oeye sA o cj e v / ~ l
d*dy A 7
e/'
*U '?y
\r
%
y
<s
3
jri/qqFSrZD By THE’loops' "~=
Okiector^ ~- 7^ J_
HASH.


2^
THE SINGLE-TAX QUESTION.
J. HARDGRAFT (loq): “New, Mr. George, do I understand that the Single-tax will confiscate the annual value of the ground into which I have put my
twoenty years savings?"
HENRY GEORGE: “Well, to be candid, it will."
J. HARDGRAFT: “And will the Single-tax destiny the value of my life-assurance policy by rendering valueless the landed securities on which the
assurance-company has lent my premiums?”
HENRY GEORGE: “That is so."
MR. MOSES: “Und vill the Shingle-dax destroy mein shares in de Mont de Piotè unt de money I haf made by turning de vidows indo de shtreet ?”
HENRY GEORGE: “No.”
MR. MOSES: “Den I yoost go unt vote fur de Shingle-dax.”
(The Mural is obrious.)


The SYDNEY DEPOSIT BANK,
DO - KING STREET -90
Established 1885.
Agencies in London and throughout Australia.
Overdrafts granted against Deposit of Deed's
ind all the usual banking business transacted. ’
The following are the Rates of Interest allowed
for Fixed Deposits
3 Years ‘U per cent.
12 Months per cent.
« Months 7 1 per cent.
3 Months ... ... 6.1 per cent.
6 percent, allowed on daily balance of current account.
For the cast Four (4) Years a Bonus of One peh
Cent, has been paid in addition to the above rates.
This is the first and only Bank in the Colonies
which divides its profits with its depositors.
Communications from the country will be
promptly attended to.
T. S. RICHARDSON,
General Manager.
Foreign & colonial exchange bank
OF AUSTRAL AST ~ Limited.
Sydney— B6 King Street.
Melbourne — 366 Collins Street.
London Bankers—Australian Joint Stock Bank,
No. 2 King William Street, London, E.C.
This Bank undertakes the Exchange of Money,
both International and Intercolonial, includ-
ing the Coinage of all Foreign Nations, in
addition to all usual and customary banking busi-
ness.
Lb
posits Received.
8 years
12 months ...
(> months
8 months ...
Communications to
Managing Director.”
B<k per cent.
8 per cent.
7 per cent.
6 per cent.
bo addressed to “The
D. J. WILSON,
Secretary.
w. H. PALING A COMPANY, LI MIT E D,
356 George Street, SYDNEY,
ITAVE Just Opened a Magnificent Lot of 3XTe-w Pianos from t ho celebrated Makers, Steinway, Erard, Uebel, Fenrich, Lipp, Eonisch, Bluthncr, Collat'd, and others
Also <J the wonderful "VT ictor Pianos at &-4LS and JESsa-fccsy Organs. No such Variety or Value elsewhere for Cash or Terms.
Society
An American paper announces that Mrs.
J-Vina Boucioault Tyler has just presented her hus-
band, Fred. Tyler, with a son. Playgoers will
remember how pretty Nina Boucioault left B. and
B. in Melbourne shortly after Fred. Laye—who
had been requested “not to speak to my sister,
g ir ” —got notice to quit the company. La;
departed for England, but must have subsequent
crossed the Atlantic and recommenced speaking
the young lady, who apparently said “Yes
Anyhow, “ Laye’s ’’ family name is Tyler, and
that amiable comedian is a well-educated anc
respectable man, we see no cause or just imped
meat why two loving hearts should not be joined
together in holy matrimony. Baby’s health !
* * *
Some of the grand dames of the Pin
Merino age, who still rule the society roost, swea
like troopers and have the manners of stable-boj
when they are in dishabille. It is narrated of on
Northern “ Lady,” whose family is a little note
for the dash and success of its girls, that sh
imitates the Roman patridcnnea in her inditfe
cnce to the gaze of the vulgar, and gives orders t
her grooms, common workmen and grocers in a
undress that knocks the high-tea business sky
flighting. “ Bless your sweet eyes,’’she murmurs
jerking her pyjama jacket on her alabaste
shoulders. “Why the carnation Paradise don’
you do as you’re blooming well told instead o
standing there like a paralysed kangaroo !” Anc
then the band plays, and the wind blows, and th
door slams, and everybody goes home as happy a
if they’d been to see the Gaiety girls.
**' ‘ #
Suppose the Russians arrived in Australi.
and the fiery charger of a distinguished office
happened to be under registered bill-of-sale to th
Monte-de-Piete, would the manager take th
risk of allowing the necessitous warrior to hear
the new Balaklava charge? This question is being
extensively discussed in military circles.
* * #
Governor Carington considers it necessary
to be attended by an armed escort when he goe
to church on Sunday. His body-guards carry
revolvers loaded in every chamber and at their
sides dangle swords. And this in a peaceful com
munity like Sydney, where the common or gardei
variety of Smith who carries a revolver withou
special official permission commits an offence
against the law. The same thing occurs whei
Lady Carington and others of the vice regal house
hold go to church without the Baron.
* * *
Quite a crowd gathered outside a George
street drapery-store the other day, the object o
attraction being Governor Carington's infant am
ts nurse. It is rumoured that the child bears so
strong a resemblance to ordinary children of its
age that the crowd at once concluded it to be
baby.
* * #
The heir to a British earldom, who is a
Mason and an M.A., and a lady of English birth
who reverentially basks in his smiles, have been
travelling through the country districts of Vic-
toria in the razor-grinding trade.
* * *
The Maharajah of Aliwar is enjoying him-
self in Melbourne. Aliwar is not Any whar. The
Maharajah scatters coin. Dapper little chap, in
white knickerbockers, with big white turban.
Rides in a carriage with pair of horses. Wants
racehorses. Plenty to oblige him. Gents, want
to know if he would like to back Hanythink.
* #
Before Cardinal Moran’s time it was quite
a usual thing for members of perfesh—both
male and female—to sing at the choir at St.
Mary’s Cathedral, Sydney, on Sunday. That’s
all done away with now, and here’s the reason,
given in the words of an old priest: “ Well, you
see, it’s this way. It don’t seem at all right that
a gurrl that dances in tights on Saturday in the
theaytre should be singing like an angel iii the big
cathedral on Sunday, and nary a one of thim, I
notice, ever goes to her juty, and, as for the singing
actors, bad luck to them —they do nothing else
but wink at the gurrls, who should be attinding
to their devotions !”
* * *
Governor Hopefcoun keeps very quiet.
Flunkeys getting fat. No hexercise. There'll be
a row soon as with Loch’s flunkeys, who struck
over housemaids’ work—dusting china.
» # ‘ *
Two land-owning houses of many herds
and flocks have been united at Bathurst, James
Rutherford, junv., being joined to Miss Gilmour
of Bathampton. Rutherford’s father is a thorough-
going Yankee, and first.started his Australian life
as “ whip ” for Cobb and Co. Mr. Gihnour says
he commenced as a boy in a store at Kelso, at
“ ten bob a week and his tucker. ” Both Ruther-
ford and Gihnour are now millionaires, and fine
examples of what may be done by acquisitiveness,
brains, pluck and opportunity.
# * #
Lord and Lady Kiutore are extremely
stiff in their reception of visitors. When they
give a dinner-party the guests don’t see their host
and hostess until they are ready for the feed. Then
the guests are supposed to stand round the table
opposite their allotted places until the Earl and
Countess enter. When the Earl comes in, he
proudly says, “Be seated, gentlemen !” Then the
guests sit down and feel as if they were having a
free feed at the expense of what Henry George
calls the “soup society.”
* * #
From all the vice-regal persons tem-
porarily located on this continent my Lord Kin-
tore takes the official cake for “ cheek.” One day
last week, just previous to returning to his South
Australian subjects, that long, sawhey creature
walked round the Melbourne University, and
and “ expressed himself as much pleased with the
progress which the University is making.” Haw !
We suppose he wrote a few gracious words in a
visitor’s book : “ Am exceedingly well satisfied
with this useful institution—-haw ! I think that
the people are very fortunate to get such a nice
place, and I feel much pleasure in recording my
opinion that education (in moderation) is a good
DISAPPOINTED PERSON: “I CONSIDER THAT HE WROTE A MOST
UNFAIR CRITICISM OF MY PLAY, BUT I’LL BE EVEN WITH
HIM—I’LL RUIN HIS PAPER.”
“OH! THAT WILL BE EASY ENOUGH.”
“HOW?”
“GET HIM TO LET YOU WRITE FOR IT.”
thing for the people. Signed, Kintohf.—fo r
Victoria Regina.”
*' * *
The Adelaide pietists are infuriated with
Justice Boucaut for asking “Who believes in the
Bible?” All the best people of that sad and
solemn city carry the secret of England’s greatness
concealed on their person. It teaches ’em to re-
joice in the hour of their prosperity, and when
they file their little schedules they fly to the Book
for comfort. Who believes in the Bible, indeed ?
Bank Manager Crooks was the hardest believer in
Adelaide, and yet Justice Boucaut—who had the
sentencing of him, if we remember rightly—can
ask a question like that. Shade of Uriah Heep !
* # *
March 10, being “ Prince of Wales’ Wed-
ding Day,” was observed as a general holiday in
Hobart. —
Now, grateful be the Prince of Wales
To loyal Hobart Town,
Whose useless, phantom-haunted gaols
Stand constant to the Crown ;
Elsewhere folks celebrate the birth
Of that betoadied toff,
But nowhere else is “kept,” on earth,
The day they turned him off.
# * *
In order to give Governor Hopetoun a
good idea of the peculiarities of the kangaroo, the
Melbourne Hunt Club purposes collecting a num-
ber of these sacred animals and hunting them
during the coming season. The Governor chases
the kangaroo now. By and bye the Kangaroo
will chase the Governor.
IN MEMORIAM—L.T.
(E o R The Bulletin.)
Dead ! Gone ere the light of morning
Left the rugged hills of life.
“ Dead I” I mutter, hating’, scorning
All the useless stir and strife.
All the joy of plain and mountain,
And the beauty of the glen,
Rippling streamlet, crystal fountain,
And the puny works of men.
Useless all! while we behold them,
Comes the thief whose nrev is breath
And the shades of nkdit enfold them *
We
We aie face to face with ath -
Cladesville March iKoo LB Bbebetc .
Glades vine, March, 1890.
* * *
Phil May writes from Paris :
I am working hard on my Salon picture, which I have
left (my usual style) until the very last minute ; how-
ever, I expect to finish it in the course of a few days.
There has been a split in the local artists’camp, and so
there are to be this .year two salons—the new one
presided over by Meissonnier I don’t know which
I shall honour—l think I’ll get ’em to toss for my
picture. I have got a jolly house and studio here, with a
large garden and paddock at the back. It is quite like
being out in the country, although but a mile from the
Arc de Triomphe, in a’ straight line with the Champs
i 1 hav 9 had Combes out here several times, and
have had long chats about Australia; he will be leaving
Europe in a week or two, and intends voyaging via
America. Alfred Cellier and I met the other day at the
club, and in the course of conversation he gave it as his
opinion that The Bulletin is the liveliest paper he has
ever read, bar none, and this seems to be pretty generally
the opinion of a considerable crowd over here. lam very
fond of Paris in some respects, but I know of no place
which can be so slow if you are not “ on the tear,” and
you have to visit London if you want to get a decent
smoke.
* # *
During the trial at Sydney Criminal Court
of Smith and Paxton for the Devonshire-street
murder, one of the witnesses said lie heard some
one say : “Come on, now—bring out your Charlie
Mitchell ” (the famous English pugilist). Judge
Foster, who presided, hereupon pricked up his
ear, and, in an interested way, said to tile wit-
ness : “ Do you know this person—do you know
this Charles Mitchell —have you ever seen him?”
The witness said he did not know him personally.
Judge Foster then, as he felt convinced Charles
Mitchell was an important factor in the tragedy,
actually called Detective Rochaix, and gravely
asked him whether he knew this person Charles
Mitchell ? The sharp Frenchman demurely
answered “ that lie had not come under his obser-
vation.” Jack Want, Q.C., who was counsel for
the prisoner, with difficulty kept down a broad
grim at the Judge’s innocence.
* # # ,
While such a row is made over Zola at
the Melbourne Customs, the flash fashionable
print sellers exhibit an engraving of Sir F. Leigh-
ton’s “ Daphnephoria,” which isat least as “ good”
as Zola. But the terrible anxiety is fiver lest the
working classes should bo corrupted such a
solicitude about the morals of the lower orders!
Sydney Smith impaled this humbug when he
showed how the poor were punished for baiting a
poor, timid bear, while the rich could hunt a
fierce, carnivorous stag.
The quack’s written guarantee is his forte.
A poor woman with a family of children and a
crippled husband had been receiving benefit from
a N.S.W. country benevolent society. The
herbalist fiend comes along and offers to cure the
man for £5 or refund the money. The poor
woman goes to the officers of the Society and tells
the tale of how the “good herbalist” will certainly
cure her husband—will guarantee a cure—for £5.
It was better, argued the woman in her womanish
way, to pay a small lump sum and have her
husband restored to health, than for the family to
continue drawing a bounty year after year. But
the Society told the woman to inform the herbalist
that if he cured the crippled husband the fee
would be forthcoming at once; surely if the
“ herbalist” was so confident of cure he would not
object to this arrangement? The herbalist did
object, however; he could not see the force or
value of a guarantee unless he gave it! In the
end the quack was £6 out the Society £5 in. The
moral is obvious.
* # *
Give Melbourne the prize. Two young
girls fought in Collingwood last week, stripped to
the buff, with 300 spectators looking on. The
cake, please. Thanks.
# * *
The Reverend Jolly, Wesleyan parson at
Warragul, Gippsland, acts up to his name. He
has knocked tea-meetings on the head and held a
real knife-and-fork banquet instead. At two
shillings a head 350 sat down to a capital dinner,
with “ lashings of pork contributed by the
selectors. ”
* * *
J. L. Dow, Minister for Lands in Vic-
toria, has decided to utilise 20 acres at Dunolly
for the establishment of a “scent farm.” The
products are intended for Smellbourne use.
# # #
The North Willoughby land case, founded
on the alleged wrongful transfer sixty or seventy
years ago of certain Sydney lands/ which have
now acquired a value of three millions of
pounds, reminds us of a big ejectment suit
in the year ’57. Nicholas Devine arrived in the
“First Fleet” as superintendent of convicts, he
served for 25 years, and then had 210 acres
of land given him, now known as Newtown.
A man named Rochford lived with him as an
assigned servant or guardian, Devine being
enfeebled in health. In 1827 Devine exe-
cuted a conveyance to Rochford of the whole
of his property. On the death of Devine,
Rochford sold the estate, which, in a few
years, became very valuable. The history of
the transaction was not long in reaching the ears
of Devine’s relations in Ireland, and the grand-
nephew came out and claimed the whole estate ©n
the grounds of forgery and fraud, Devine having-
been at the time of conveyance, insane. If that
ground were not tenable it was urged that Roch-
ford, being a prisoner of the Crown, could not
acquire property. Twenty-six persons defended
their homesteads in this law-suit, and the verdict
was for the defendants. The Privy Council
ordered anew trial, which lasted 30 days and resulted
again for the defendants. Further litigation was
saved by a compromise. The strongest bar known
was engaged in it. On one side were Plunkett,
Blake, Faucett, Butler, Dailey and Isaacs; on
the other, Darvall, Wise, Holroyd, Meymott and
James Martin (then a junior.)
# # *
When poor Mis. Booth (the veritable
Mother of the Salvation Harmy) has succumbed
to her terrible disease, won’t there be a sweet
fluttering of hearts among the unmarried Halle-
lujah girls? In due season the “General” will
have to hold a grand review of his female troops,
and select the most suitable little captain to fill
the vacant chair. The official War Ckys will
announce the elevation of Captain Tottie So-and-So
to the rank of Field-Marshaless, and the General’s
final choice will stand revealed. You'll see.
* * *
Lady Hopetouu was summoned from her
“ mountain home,” at Macedon, immediately
upon the publication of a Bulletin announce-
ment that she had conceived a violent aversion to
the over-dressed, overfed and jewelled-in-the-
morning leaders of Melbourne sassiety. His lord-
ship thought that the Countess’s presence on the
scene would put a stop to such awkward rumours,
doncherknow, my dear, and she came back like
the loving wife His Excellency has always found
her. But she didn’t try to make herself civil to
that parcel of women,, bless your heart. And for
such indisposition to hob-nob with gilded vulgarity
there is much excuse. The Bulletin can’t be
civil to them, either.
* * #
“We might as well ask what our position
would be if Great Britain adopted Mormonisin,
or abolished the Throne,” says the Argus, gam-
moning that both suppositions are equally too
funny for anything. Our position will not be
geographically altered when the old Throne
breaks down for good. Socially we shall improve
a lot. No governors or K.C.M.G.’s, less snob-
bery (as a natural result), no Argus of the existing
pattern.
* * *
The very latest cable twaddle-gram, headed
“Another Australian Singer,” informs us that
Joe Thompson’s daughter Leah has been admitted
as a student at the Royal Academy of Music,
London. We trust that Joe didn't pay too much
for getting this tin-pot fact sent along under the


The
Marvellous
18s. 6d.
OPTIMUS
WATCHES
The Best, Cheapest and Most Accurate Timekeepers
ever produced.
Made especially to our order by one of the leading and
most celebrated manufacturers of Watches in Switzerland,
and experience has shown that no watch is better than a
well-made Swiss one.
Gilt movements, jewellejl in six holes, keyless (10 turns
to wind), enamel dials, crystal faces, well made, splendidly
finished, nickel cases that will wear excellently; in fact,
real good-looking, handsome little watches, and magnifi-
cent timekeepers.
Twelve months’ guarantee forwarded with every one.
Send P. 0.0. for 19s. 6d. (Is. postage), and have one
forwarded by post. If not in every way satisfactory after
a week money willingly refunded,
Only to be obtained from
FROST <Sc SHIPHAM,
Spectacle Makers, Opticians & Electricians,
474 & 587 GeorSe Street. Sydney.
đ
Watches and Jewellery are like good wives—they are
worth having.
Send for Illustrated Price List. Post Free.
813 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
(Nearly opposite Railway Station).
Factories: Liverpool and London, England.
10s. English Lever, Tw o Years’ Guaranteed.
£3 10s. English Lever, “The Unequalled,” full cap.
£4 English Lever, “The Special,” compensated.
20/- The Unequalled Keyless Watch. 20/-
Counlry Residents and Visitors to Sydney call or send
to A. SAUNDERS, 813 George Street (nearly opposite
Railway Station), SYDNEY.
d
SCOTT’S
EMULSION
CURES
CONSUMPTION
SCROFULA
BRONCHITIS
COUCHS
GOLDS
Wasting Diseases
Wonderful Fiesh Producer.
Many have gained one pound
per day by its use.
Scott’s Emulsion is not a secret
remedy. It contains the stimulat-
ing properties of the Hypophos-
phites and pure Norwegian Cod
Liver Oil, the potency of both
being largely increased. It is used
by Physicians all over the world.
paLatable as svielk.
Sold by all Chemists.
SCOTT & BOWNE, Hew York.
Robertson’s Whisky.
SQtZIHIdC
OOS2F
GIVEN AWAY IN THE COLONIES
as follows:
10 of £5 each, 25 £2, ami 70 £l,
Pamphlc ts from the Agents, A-XjJj'X 1
Limited,
CHARLOTTE PLACE. SYDNEY
-jeep waters. Miss Leah will need to warble about
ten thousand per cent, more sweetly and strongly
than the usual K. A. student if she is to make any
sort of sensation with her voice. It has been the
writer’s misfortune to hear many finished pupils
from that same institution, and he now listens
with Christian resignation to the midnight songs
of cats upon the tiles.
* * *
They gave a dinner to A. G. Downer, an
Adelaide solicitor, the other day, prior to his
departure for England. As usual, Chief Jus-
tice Way spread himself, and said that “their guest
might claim to be the depository of family secrets,
the protector of family reputations, and of the in-
terests of the poor, of the widow, of the orphans,
and those who were inexperienced and unable to
take care of their own.” (Applause.) We only
wonder how it is that this angelic lawyer has not
already been called away. His presence is re-
quired in Heaven. He is too good for this world.
# * *
Here we have a cablegram in re the pro-
posal to legitimise the Duke of Cambridge’s
children —a consummation which Queen Victoria
desires to bring about. This is the same Queen
Victoria who, in a fit of jealousy, dismissed from
her Court the unhappy Flora Hastings who was
unjustly suspected of “ licentiousness ! ” The girl
died of grief.
* * *
Blewitt, of Williamsfcown, was taken to
the cemetery last week, when they found he
wasn’t Blewitt; the corpse was taken back, after
the coroner’s inquest, to find out who it was.
Which reminds one of Patrick Burke meeting his
own funeral, in New York, some years ago._ They
thought Blewitt had lost his money, and suicided,
birt were mistaken. A similar mistake occurred
over a North Melbourne woman not long ago.
* * *
Lord Loftus is busy with his “Memoirs,”
which will be out shortly. Well, the old man did
something at St. Petersburg, Vienna, and Berlin,
where he checkmated Bismarck more than once.
The Insolvency Commissioner bested him, but
there have been worse men—even in Sydney.
* * *
Said Dean Cowper, of Sydney, lately, in
speaking of the Missionary Curates’ Fund •
The ten men sought to be introduced will be unmarried,
and willing to remain so for a period for the sake of the
Church’s work, and willing for the same reason to be con-
tent with the minimum stipend of £l5O per annum—men
with a real missionary .spirit, devoted, educated, and
enthusiastic.
Cardinal Moran is no doubt chuckling over the
apparent recommendation of celibate ministry.
* * *
The paltry and selfish struggles of ecclesias-
ticism can well bo studied in the quarrel over the
New Zealand Primacy. It is a case of undis-
guised hustling for the loaves and fishes.
* * *
Suppress the “fashionable” and “right-
thinking ” illustrated papers and Royalty would
be dead in a month all the world over. Here we
have London Life publishing a portrait of the
infant King of Spain, in which His Majesty—
Heaven save the mark! —appears as a chubby
child with curly hair, whereas the fact of the
matter is that the infant King of Spain hasn’t a
particle of hair on him, much to the disgust of all
locally interested in keeping up the royal farce.
Then we have that miserable, sawney object,
Albert Victor of Wales, depicted chasing Indian
deer on a fiery charger which he rides with the
seat of a Tommy Corrigan ! Another pictorial lie
consists of a representation of the late Empress
Augusta of Germany as a handsome, vigorous,
well-preserved old lady, whereas in truth and in
fact she was a dressmaker’s resurrection, a dread-
ful old woman who wore a skin of white kid over
her neck and shoulders to keep the wrinkles from
being seen. In addition to her white kid neck
and shoulders, worn only on state occasions, the
Empress Augusta was daily face-enamelled with
a composition of wax and plaster-of-paris; this
filled up the ruts made by the wheels of Time and
the wickednesses of old King William, and on it
was skilfully laid the roses and lilies of her com-
plexion ; when her false teeth were in and
her vulcanite and whalebone jaw-and-cheek-dis-
tenders, she looked as gay as a tenpenny doll on a
Christmas-tree. Then the Prince of Wales,
according to the illustrated papers, is a refined,
gentlemanly-looking man, whereas in reality he is
the dead image of a fat usurer from Poland or
Yarmany or somewhere, whom you can see leaning
up against the bar of the Cafe Francais, Sydney,
on any day of the week. We are tired of royal
portraits.
* * *
Lately said Ingersoll, addressing a divorce-
case jury
A marriage without love is immoral. I don’t care how
many forms you go through ' I don’t care if all the
churches in the world united beneath the dome of heaven,
filling all the air with incense, pronounce a man and
woman wedded. If that sweet perfume called love does
not arise, there is no marriage. The woman who marries
a man because he is rich, tor a title, or for office, place, or
power, is not a virtuous woman; and the man who
marries a woman for any such reason is not a virtuous
man, but a contemptible wretch.
* * *
Washington Moon has written a book
called—“ With all my worldly goods I thee
endow,” in which he points out that the retention
of these words in the Marriage Service as the law
is now constituted involves the telling of a “blas-
phemous lie ” at every wedding.
How the Maoris Volunteered for the
Soudan.
An Unwritten Chapter of Military History.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
The daily newspapers of England had not
yet ceased singing' the praises of Australia for its
loyalty to the throne of England, as manifested in
its ready offers of assistance in the Egyptian
trouble and the prompt despatch of the N.S.W.
Contingent to the scene of action in the Soudan,
when London was startled one morning by the
announcement that the Maoris of New Zealand,
who but a few years previously had themselves
been at war with England, had volunteered for
the front. The announcement was contained in a
brief cable message in the Times, as follows
(from our correspondent.)
Wellington, Dec. 20th.
The N.Z. Government have this morning received an
extraordinary offer from the Maoris to proceed to the
Soudan. Hote Tamihana, a great and powerful terri-
torial chief, has written Mr. Ballance, Minister for Native
Affairs, offering the services of a fully-equipped troop of
500 mounted riflemen, all thoroughly trained in the art of
civilised warfare, and for the most part expert marks-
men. The Maoris are prepared to defray the entire cost
of the expedition, which, on a favourable reply being re-
ceived from the Imperial Government, will sail at once to
Suakim and take the field with the Australian Contingent.
Mr. Baliance has undertaken to lay the matter before the
Imperial Government and urge their acceptance of this
gratifying proof of Maori loyalty and devotion to the
Queen.
The offers of assistance from her Australian and
American colonies had proved a strong card m
the hand of England in that trying period which
followed the death of Gordon, but now the Eng-
lish people may be said to have reached the very
climax of enthusiasm. After all, these offers had
been made by their own flesh and blood, their own
kinsmen across the sea; but here vvas an offer ot
assistance’from a savage, and, until recently, anta-
gonistic race, who themselves had not many years
before been vanquished by the arms of England.
Here was an answer, knock-down and conclusive,
to the criticisms of contemporary historians on
the treatment of the Maoris by Great Britain.
Here was a proof of the beneficence of English
rule among those uncivilised peoples subdued by
force of arms and missionary influence which there
was no gainsaying.
From London the news of the grand demon-
stration of Maori loyalty was scattered to all
quarters of the globe. It was flaunted in the face
of France, Germany had it every morning at her
breakfast, while it was dished up to the Americans
in long and solid columns of printed matter every
hour in the twenty-four.
“THE MAORIS AND THE SOUDAN”
was a cross-heading which for many mornings
adorned the columns of the English papers.
The Times treated the matter to a series of leading
articles in praise of this noble race of aboriginals.
“Seldom in the history of the British nation,
wrote the Thunderer, “ has anything approach-
ing this magnificent, but fortunately dispensable,
offer of assistance by the aboriginal natives of
New Zealand been experienced. History affords
few, if any, parallels; and little wonder that the
heart of England should be touched by this mani-
festation of attachment from such an unexpected
quarter. ” The Daily Telegraph and the Stan-
dard followed in a similar strain ; the provincial
papers took their cue from London, illustrated
papers gave sketches of Maori life, and everything
pertaining to the race was read with the greatest
avidity by the great mass of the British public.
One morning the papers were able to intimate that
Her Majesty had cabled her acknowledgments to
the Maori people through Mr. Ballance and was
so deeply moved by their devotion to “her rule
and person ” that she commanded a shawl and an
ivory toothpick, or some things of the kind, to be
despatched forthwith as a present to the wife of
King Tawhaio —who had two wives, by the way.
One of them, Ngahina, was a rather pretty woman
and quite a friend of ours.
In Australia the feeling of warmth to the
Maoris was equally intense. The Melbourne
Argus devoted a supplement to Maori tradition ;
the Age engaged its best writers to write all they
could about the Maori at home ; while the Sydney
Morning Herald was at great expense to prove
that the Maori was one of the finest races,
savage or civilised, on the face of the earth.
The only exception to this whirlwind of adula-
tion and congratulation was The Bulletin. It
had the effrontery to ridicule the significance of
the alleged Maori offer and reminded King
Tawhaio’s people of the day, not so far distant,
when they would have been glad of a little timely
assistance from their coloured brethren along the
banks of the Nile,
But as the days passed by and the intention of
the “ Home ” Government in regard to the Maori
became known, all talk of the Maoris and their
loyalty gradually died out, and long before the re-
turn of the Australian Contingent that people had
ceased to occupy a place in public attention.
It may be that public curiosity in regard to this
incident has long since evaporated; but it can
hardly fail to be of interest to many to know how
this generous offer of help originated.
* # *
It is a sultry summer’s afternoon and the
Maoris attending the Native Land Court, at
Kihikihi, are basking in the sun or lying about
here and there underneath the verandahs of the
stores and grog-shops. The court is closed and
they have nothing to do but “loaf” for drinks,
or borrow money from those who are foolish
enough to lend it. One conspicuous figure may bo
seen going from door to door, from group to group,
fighting with this one and quarrelling with that
one; but when he meets a European he grows
civil and assumes the suave demeanour of the man
who has a favour to ask or a confidence to win.
He is attired in a flax mat loosely thrown round
the loins, the upper portion of his body is covered
with a coarse shirt turned wrong side foremost,
while in his hand he carries a mere, usually the
distinguishing feature of the chief or man of rank
among his people.
This is Hote Tamihana, son of the renowned
Wiremu Tamihana, the greatest Maori that New
Zealand ever saw —soldier, statesman, philosopher.
Hote had the advantage of an English education
and an abundant landed patrimony. While in-
heriting his father’s name, however, he displayed
none of his qualities, so that before long he took
to erratic courses and a wild vagrant life, which
soon landed him in a condition of destitution and
brought him to that depth in which none were so
• poor as do him honor. He lived upon the country
of his countrymen ; and the country contained
none whose influence for good was less and whose
influence for mischief was more fully recognised.
Entering a store where a number of Europeans
were discussing the latest intelligence from the
Soudan, Hote announced himself in his usual
boisterous fashion.
“ What a good opportunity to rid the country
of a scourge ! ” said Jack Ellis, the boss of the
establishment, astride on a biscuit-box.
“ What do you mean ? ” asked Bill Grace the
interpreter.
“ What do I mean? Why, get Hote to volun-
teer for the Soudan ; what else ? If we can pull
the ropes at Wellington with the Minister he’ll
only be too glad to pay his passage and that of
those who’d accompany him. TheNgatiranhawas
have been a regular nuisance to Ba'lance ever
since he took office, and the Government would
only be too glad to ship the whole tribe off to the
Soudan or to .”.
“ Exactly ; to the devil, for that matter.”
“Happy thought,” suggested the writer, and in
less time than it takes to tell it a telegram was
drawn up, signed by the versatile Hote, and
despatched to the Hon. John Ballance, Native
and Defence Minister, Wellington, offering a
Maori contingent fully equipped, horses and all,
for duty in the Soudan.
“ And wouldn’t the Maoris have gone?” I hear
someone ask.
Gone! Not they ! Hote Tamihana had no
more power to pledge the Maoris than he had to
pledge the forces of the King of Siam, and as for
the Maoris equipping a mounted corps of their
own, why the whole race hadn’t a horse in their
territory fit to send out of the country.
“So that the whole thing was only a joke ?” •
“Nothing more, I assure you, dear sir. The
hilarious joke of a few people who had nothing
better to do at the time.”
J. F. EDGAR.
Melbourne Public Library has the original
agreement under which the aboriginal cricketers
were taken to England, in 1807. Their names
were Mullagh, Cuzens, Jeilico, Tarpot, Bullocky,
Peter, Paddy, Sundown, Dicky, Lake Billy,
Billy Officer, Watty, Tommy Redcap, Harry Rose,
Charley, and Dick-a-Dick.
One of the Quetta victims, John Watson,
was head partner in a big Brisbane book and pub-
lishing house that has been fighting the printers’
unions for nearly four years. Nevertheless, no
printer in Queensland ever had a word to say
against old John, not even though his firm was
the prime cause of the big general strike that
blackened the eyes of the Q.T.A. He, they
allow, was a white man —and a resolution of sym-
pathy and regret by unionists for this non union
employer is talked of.
CONVERTED.
A Maori chief of great renown—
A man of war e’en from his youth,
Whose foes were dead (they all went down
His throat, to tell the honest truth !)
Who found a scarcity ensue—
With peace, for him the times grew harder,
While, spite of all his toils, there grew
A frightful gap within his larder,
At length became convinced that he
Was born again, and told the parson,
Who sent him sugar, flour, and tea,
And thus completed his conversion.
He then baptised the chief, and said :
“Now that you are a Christian brother,
You’ve got two wives—you must unwed
The one and cleave unto the other.
“ But for the one you put away,
You must make suitable provision.”
The warrior grinned, but didn’t say
Just what he thought of this decision.
The parson came that way again,
One wife was there—a happy woman—
With joy he saw the Mormon stain
Removed, and born the chief a new man.
“ Well done,” cried he, “ I’m glad to see
He’s taken my advice already,
But how, may I enquire, has he
Provided for the other lady ?”
“ Bah,” cried the tattooed matron, “she
No good, too tough, I’ll always hate her,
We made provisions of her —we,
As you advised, sir, killed and ate her.”
A. STUART.
For Nervous Dyspepsia
USE HORSFORD'S ACID PHOSPHATE.
Dr. A. G. Rawson Harris, L.R.C.P., and
M.R.C.S., Pembroke, Eng., says; “I am sure
that it is destined to be more than a merely fashion-
able remedy of the hour. I used it in a case of
nervous dyspepsia, of long standing, where for
years there had been a great wear and tear of the
nervous system. This objectionable symptom was
speedily relieved in a way that no other remedy
has ever effected.’’
Melbourne Total Abstinence Society are
much distraught over their gambling gala—the
Christmas lottery, with its £BOO in prizes. Pietists
ask —what’s the good of pleading against the Mel-
bourne Cup ? So the gala is likely to be abandoned.


Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
“ Physicians of all schools use and recommend
Dr. Soule’s American Hop Bitters. Test them.”
Amusements.
JJER MAJESTY’S THEATRE.
Lessee and Manager ... Mr. Geo Rignold.
Doors open at 7 ; commencing 7.40. Carriages at 10.45.
ENORMOUS SUCCESS ! ENORMOUS SUCCESS !
of the New and Original Drama,
My Jack. 3My Jack.
Box Office at Theatre from 10 to 5. Prices as usual.
J. P. Macdonald, Acting-Manager.
QRITERION THEATRE
Sole Proprietor — Mr. John Solomon.
Under the Management of Messrs. Brough and Boucicault.
General Manager . . Mr. Mayne.
Doors Open, 7. Overture, 8. Carriages, 10.25.
LAST EIGHT PERFORMANCES
of the
BROIKSH-BMICICAIILT COMEDY COMPANY
in the
Late T. W. Robertson’s World-famed Comedy,
OURS. OURS.
(By arrangement with Mr. GEORGE RIGNOLD.)
Admission ... S2 2s. to Is.
Box Plan at Nicholson’s. Carriages at 10.25 p.m.
Jok Davis, Business Manager.
Amusements.
r|l HEA T R E ROYAL
Under the Management of Messrs. Williamson,
Garner and Musgrove.
Lessee, Mr. S. Lazar. Treasurer, Mr. Geo. L. Goodman.
LAST NIGHTS ! LAST NIGHTS 1
of the
NEW LONDON DRAMATIC COMPANY
in
-T HE POINTSM A N-
Admission —ss., 3s. and Is.
Public Notice.
ELTHAM PARK ESTATE,
MOUNT VICTORIA.
THIS splendid Estate, of 100 acres, formerly
the property of the late Hon, W. R. Pid-
dington, M.L.C., has been surveyed and sub-
divided into 94 fine resideniary allotments with
ample frontages and long depths.
Eltham Park is only 10 minutes’ walk from
Mount Victoria railway station, being close to the
junction of the Mount Vorke and Bathurst roads,
and adjoins the land upon which Curtis’ Villas, or
as they are now termed “Buena Vista,” are
erected. Nature has lavished all her varied charms
on this magnificent estate, for
Titania’s G-lexi
is without exception the most charming and pic-
turesque view on the Mountains, fit for the abode
of the “ Queen of the Fairies.”
I know a bank whereon the wild thyme blows,
Where ox-lips and the nodding violets grow;
Quite over-canopied with lush woodbine,
With sweet musk-roses, and with eglantine:
There sleeps Titania, some time of the night,
Lull’d in these flowers with dances and delight.
The BALMORAL PANORAMA.
A very extensive view of fully 25 miles of scenery
of marvellous beauty.
ST. GEOEGE’S PAEADE.
A fine carriage drive right through the estate —as
a Promenade there is nothing to equal it in any of
the mountain townships.
The Chatsworth Road view is remarkably fine.
The Glen Road and Onslow Avenue are sur-
rounded with splendid scenery.
The almost magical effect of the bracing Climate
of Mount Victoria upon worn-out constitutions is
soon apparent, for in 24 hours after arrival the
appetite commences to assert itself, the liver
begins to act, and the digestive system gradually
resumes its work, A balmy and refreshing sleep
of 8 or 9 hours soon relieves the brain, for there
are no mosquitoes to trouble your peaceful
slumbers.
The rejuvenating process after the first week’s
residence at Mount Victoria is plainly seen, the
buoyancy of the spirits, caused by
The Electricity of the Mountain Air
produces an hilarity of temper, not felt before,
while the roseate hue of the complexion speaks
volumes for the invigorating climate of Mount
Victoria.
Eltham Park is over 3500 feet above the level of
the sea, and is the most elevated and charming
position on Mount Victoria.
Squatters, Barristers, Merchants, and many of
our distinguished colonists are selecting their
various allotments at ELTHAM PARK.
The price is exceedingly moderate, far lower
than is paid elsewhere for inferior land, and it can
confidently be asserted that Eltham Park is the
Grandest Residential Estate upon the Mountains.
Eltham Park is the most improved Estate.
Terra-Cotta Vases are placed at the entrance of
the road, and park and garden seats are provided
for the convenience of ladies.
TITLE.
TERMS ARE VERY LIBERAL TO SUIT BUYERS.
WILLIAM EYRE .... Solo Proprietor,
Midas Chambers, 112 King Street,
SYDNEY.
Medical.
Xyery breastplate ~
AGAINST COUGHS, COLDS, &c.
This is how the
REVD. MARK GUY FEARS!
The great Wesleyan Preacher, refers to
ALLCOCK’S
IPOIROTJS
PLASTERS
And it only needs a trial to prove their great
value. They are applied externally and can be
worn with perfect comfort and ease, generally
relieving and curing in from three to four days.
In Asthma, Bronchitis, Rheumatism, Lumbago,
Sciatica, they are simply invaluable, and many of
the little complaints that grow into big ones
through improper treatment might be avoided by
wearing one on the chest and another between the
shoulder blades. Never has such genuine testi-
mony been given before.
ALLCOCK’S Porous PLASTERS
are sold by all Chemists in various sizes, from
Is. lid. to 225. fid., but be very careful to see that
you get ALLCOCK’S, as abominable rubbish is
being palmed off by unscrupulous traders.
Amusements.
[A CARD.]
CgTANDABD theatre.
” Lessee and Manager Mr. Tom Sa whins.
Farewell Engagement of
g e o. c. nvr i Xj. mt,
In a Choice Ripertoire of Classic Plays.
POPULAR PRICES.
O N D I AQUARIUM.
The Most Popular
PICNIC and PLEASURE GROUNDS OP AUSTRALIA.
The Famous Switchback Railway, conveying
Passengers from Cliff to Cliff daily.
Splendid Asphalt Open-Air Skating-Rink Free to Visitors.
Open Daily from 10 a.m to 10 p.m.
Admission, Is.; Children, 6d. Trams to Gate —Fare, 4d
rjIHE CYCLO RAM A!
THE MOST MARVELLOUS
ART DEVELOPMENT OF THE AGE !
Here one of the world’s greatest military struggles is
brought in every detail before the spectator, surrounded
by all the beauties of one of the fairest American land-
scapes.
100 Square Miles within One Building !
Open every Day—lo to 10. BAND DAILY.
GUNTHER’S BRISBANE CAFE,
George Street (below Hunter-st.), Sydney.
TP RED. GUNTHER, late of the Hotel,
•P Castlereagh-st., is desirous of informing his patrons
and the public generally that he has now become pro-
prietor of the BRISBANE CAFE, GEORGE STREET.
These premises are commodious, and every convenience is
obtainable. None but liquors of the first quality retailed.
Two of Alcock’s Prize Billiard Tables provided. Files of
sporting and dramatic papers kept. Special '■.coommoda-
tion for the theatrical profession.
Government Advertisements.
Department of Public Works,
Sydney, March 18, 1890.
Tenders for public works and
supplies.
For Conditions, see Government Gazette.
BRUCE SMITH.
General Post Office,
Sydney, 17th March, 1890.
ATTENTION is directed to Gazettr Notice
inviting Tenders for the conveyance of
mails between Wilberforce and Saokville Reach;
Casino and The Risk ; point on the Kiama-Ger-
ringong mail line and Rose Valley.
Tenders will be received up to the 2nd April
next, and must bo addressed to the Secretary to
the Post Office, Svdnev.
DANIEL O’CONNOR.
Furniture, &c.
EWTON AND LAMB.
FURNITURE and PIANOFORTE
WAREHOUSEMEN,
CABINETMAKERS, UPHOLSTERERS
BEDDING MANUFACTURERS.
SHOW ROOMS AND MANUFACTORY:
SPRING AND O’CONNELL STREETS.
EASY CHAIRS, for Parlour, Library, or Bed-
rooms, new designs, covered to order, in
any material.
lANOFORTES, by R. LIPP and
L. NEUFELD and other Celebrated
Makers at WHOLESALE PRICES. Newton
and Lamb.
Bagatelle boards, Portable, various
sizes.
BEDROOM SUITES, complete, in various
Woods, and very handsome designs, with
7 feet Wardrobes, or with smaller Wardrobes for
single rooms. Great variety.
NEWTON and LAMB,
Furniture Warehousemen,
SPRING AND O’CONNELL STREETS.
BEDROOM SUITES, fashionable early
English designs—Wardrobe 4 feet, with
silvered plate-glass door : Washstand, with marble
top and tile back, Towel Rail; Toilet Table,
with Swing Glass attached; and Two Cane-
Seated Chairs, 14 guineas.
AND
NEWTON & LAMB,
O’Connell and Spring Streets,
ď
CANVAS FOLDING
COTS, for camping
out. A cheap occasional
bed light, strong, and
handy, 10s. 6d.
Nkwton & Lamb.
DINING TABLES, with patent extending
screws, from 5 feet long and up to 20 feet.
WALNUT TELESCOPIC DINING
TABLES with extra leaves, strongly
made, £3 10s.
HALL FURNITURE. HATSTANDS and
CHAIRS. LARGE ASSORTMENT.
NEWTON & LAMB.
Library furniture, centre and
SIDE TABLES, BOOKCASES, SECRE-
TARIES, READING and LOUNGE CHAIRS.
COMMODE CHAIRS, BIDETS, with Pan,
SHAVING STANDS, NEWTON and
LAMB.
JAPANESE BLINDS, White or Green (extra
quality), fitted with pulleys and cord, 0 x 8,
Os. 6d.; BxB, 95.; 9 x 8,9 s. 6d.; 10 x 8,10 s. 6d.;
12x8, 12s. 6d.; 12x10, 15s. Newton & Lamb,
Turpi ture Warehousemen, Spring and O’Connell
Streets.
EASY CHAIRS for Parlour, Library or Bed-
rooms. New Designs covered to order in
any material. Newton & Lamb,
Self-adjusting chair and couch,
for Invalids and Medical Men.
T> OCKING EASY CHAIRS, elegant and
It; restful —a speciality. Newton & Lamb.
đ
A.
MERICAN PATENT
SHUT UP
CLOTHES DRYER.
135 feet of hanging space.
Very Cheap.
NEWTON and LAMB.
d
i ANY AS FOLDING
CHAIRS.
Substantial and Light.
Suitable for Shipboard and
Verandah.
Prior Very Low.
NEWTON and LAMB
Furniture Warehousemen,
Spring and O'Connell Streets,
ARDEN SEATS, 6ft. long, Rustic Cast-iron
Standards, 14s. 6d., 195., 255., 325. (id.
Newton and Lamb.
ERANDAH CHAIRS.
INDIAN LONG ARM LOUNGES.
V
RATTAN VERANDAH LOUNGES, from
165.; and large variety of Chairs, from
10s. 6d.; special designs, extra quality. Newton
and Lamb, Furniture Warehousemen, Spring and
O’Connell Streets.
EWTON AND LAMB.
■N
FURNITURE and PIANOFORTE
WAREHOUSEMEN,
CABINETMAKERS, UPHOLSTERERS
AND
BEDDING MANUFACTURERS.
Show Rooms and Manufactory : '
SPRING AND O’CONNELL STREETS.
Wagga hospital is just now infested by bugs,
also by one of Proprietor Evans’ newspapers.
Dilke’s new “Greater Britain” shows
extraordinary familiarity (at second-hand) with
Victoria. Gillies struts about peacockily on the
strength of his puff. Graham Berry is snarly and
dislikes hearing at this stage about his old-time
stumping exploits in the Eastern Market, &o.
Deakin feels balloonlike—” Mighty young states-
man !” “Wonderful orator,” &o. Poor old Parkes
is only smuggled in compared to these lights.
Higinbotham must sigh on reading Dilke’s lofty
estimate of his statesmanship.
From the London Times, referring to the
dock labourers: —
Formerly the 5d. rate of pay, about which so ridiculous
a fuss was made by the public, was merely the minimum.
Selection was freely exercised, and the selected men ob-
tained 8d. and even as much as a shilling, and were much
cheaper at the money than the bad workers at 5d. Now
everybody is paid alike, honest and dishonest, willing and
sneaking, strong and feeble. Consequently the average
output of the mass is simply the output of its worst and
weakest elements.
This shows what desperate arguments some papers
resort to to bolster up their clients, the capitalists.
The King of Holland is moribund, and
Germany is waiting to pounce. Bismarck has
always had an eye to the Dutch colonial posses-
sions, and Germany also wants the Dutch sea-
frontage in Europe. When Germany burgles
Holland, which is inevitable, she will have a strong
indirect interest in the Boer-governed Transvaal
Republic, and when the English fight the Dutch
in South Africa, as they will do again, the latter
will have German assistance. Even now they get
their munitions of war from the German Govern-
ment.
Little Bourke-street, the celestial part
Nilly Buck, has been saying for a long time that
a Chinese man-o’-war is coming round to Port
Jackson and Hobson’s Bay, as one of them, the
Wee Eoo, appeared in the Thames to astonish the
Englanders. The Japanese sailors of the Riujio
and Tsukuba were odd enough about Sydney and
Melbourne, but what will we say to 200 Ohinky
Jack-tars with a flowing sail ? Hitchee Britchee,
shiver my timberee ! Well, show us the clean
Chinaman. What does the man-o’-war smell like?
When it is coming the people on other ships will
think they are nearing the wafture of the Spice
Islands.
A Sydney daily lately gushed over “A
Daughter of the South and other poems ” by, 0. A.
Sherard, one of Sladen’s “ Australian bards •” and
favourably compares the subjoined lines with
Gordon’s “ How we beat the favourite —
But suddenly as though she drop’d from the sky
Above us, or sprang through the earth from the deuce,
That marvellous mare was alongside ere I
Heard “Centipede” mingling with shouting of “Brace!”
She led me—I passed her—she caught me again—
Ah, desperate riding ! Whips whistled, and spurs
Left signs of sore struggle on sides of us twain
Before I lost sight of that black head of hers.
We rushed by the box and our fighting was done,
And loud rang the cheers from lawn, hill-top and flat,
By scarce half a length from the mare it was won,
And Burton and Bruce very thankful for that.
More like Goteh than Gordon, isn’t it? A poor
imitation, apparently written by some fellow who
has read Gordon and sold rocking-horses in a toy-
shop. A lyric poem is a little better, but it also
is but a faint echo of a bigger man’s thoughts, and
the refrain—
Oh ! the rocks are rough, and the rocks are rude.
And little they reck of my briny tears ;
But rooted they stand to be kiss’d and woo’d
By my leaping lips for a thousand years.
But women will wander and men will stay,
When the morrow makes this the yesterday,
betrays the writer’s model and source of inspira-
tion. ' Why, it costs The Bulletin about £1
a week to have slush of this description scraped
off the office-floor with a hay-rake and carted
away in a van.
David Christie Murray said recently to
the representative of a Christchurch paper ; —
When I was on my way on board the steamer to Aus-
tralia I was shocked, i must confess, and somewhat pained
to hear the young Australians on board express their
ardent desire's and aspirations for Australian nationality.
I held the opinion that the British Hag was quite good
enough for them to live and die under, without their
wishing to hoist an Australian one. I was then quite
unable to understand and to grasp the reasons which led
them to prefer to establish a nationality for Australia.
But when I got to the colonies, and when I had been there
for some time, I began to see that a nationality for Aus-
tralia was not only desirable, but that it was also inevit-
able. I saw that the country was so vast, that its resources
were so great, that an Australian nationality was just
what it was quite natural its people would ardently
desire and work fo- It seemed to me, with
regard to the relation. of Australia and the Mother
Country, that the colonies were like a >outh who experi-
ences growing-pains, and the bigger the youth thegreater
the pangs of the growing-pains, but I also felt that as
Australia grew up to nationhood these growing pains
would gradually grow lesser and lesser until they would
entirely disappear, and then the little temporary irritation
with regard to the Mother Country would at once cease
and he no more heard of. From what I have seen I have
come to the conclusion that the very condition of the
colonies, and the character of its people, point to the in-
evitabieness of Australian nationality, but beyond this I
do not care to go.
This is an honestly-avowed change of front. But
why, 0 David, should a fellow who has got grow-
ing pains be specially angry with his mother-in-
law ?


Ambidextrous men are the exception. The
•'ails of the right hand can be trimmed as easily
a!s the left, by the use of McDonald’s Nail Trimmer.
AH chemists. Price one shilling.
The Choicest Jewellery. Daiims&Co., King st. Arcade
đ
d
ď
NTS .
DELISSA& PHILLIPS
3&J Barmck 3trei:t.
Water and Sewerage Board.
N
OTWITI (STANDING the erroneous
ports that he is not ELIGIBLE,
J. C. LOW
(Late Government Contractor)
Is STILL a CANDIDATE fur a Seat on the
above Board as a
SUBUKB AN M EMBER.
/COUNTRY SL'ORE KEEPERS, ETC.
''A Should write or call upon
A. M. MARKS & CO.,
—lmporters of —
Furniture, Pianofortes, Glass, Earthenware,
CHINA, FANCY GOODS, ELECTRO PLATE,
CIGARS A TO BACCOXISTS SODRIES
SOLE AGENTS FOR
Dawn Cigars and Salonica Turkish Cigarettes.
Special Novelties in all Lines for Christmas Trade.
Prices on Application to—
3VC. rates & 00-,
Vickery’s Buildings,, 74a Pitt Streeet, Sydney,
AND AT LONDON
Telephone, No. 910.
J*k.l 3AM 33 EDE.
SYDNEY GOLD CUP.
20,000 at 10.
Run 7th APRIL.
BIRTHDAY CUP.
50,000 at 10.
Run 24th MAY.
The
Only Fail' Wa
of
y
Drawing.
Address: “ ADAM BEDE,” care of H. N. Abbott,
(Owner of United Service Hotel, A uckland Theatre Royal , Abbott's Opera House, A uckland, N.Z.
(Our Only Sydney Address)— POST OFFICE CHAMBERS, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Ask for Uie
Unequalled
“DAWN” 3d, CIGAR,
mt Sjl
- r ■
Of all
Tobacconists,
Store
AND
Hotel
KEEPERS.
Wholesale Agents: A. M. MARKS & Co., 74a PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
đ
d
DAWSON’S
Pole Agents for Australasia
VAUGHAN, ROGERS & CO.,
(Opposite G.P.0.)
108 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
p
E
R
F
E
C
T
I
O
N
WHISKY
SUB-AGENTS WANTED
in Tim
PRINCIPAL CENTRES
THROUGHOUT AUSTRALASIA.
DR. SCOTT’S ELECTRIC CORSETS
AND BELTS
are universally approved by leading physicians as
the best, safest, and most effectual remedy for
Spinal Complaints, Incipient Consumption, Diar-
rh<ea, Pleurisy, Tumors, Asthma, Bronchitis,
Epilepsy, Lumbago, Debility, Dropsy, Paralysis,
Loss of Voice, Hysteria, Cutaneous Diseases,
Nervousness, Backaches, Indigestion, Palpitation,
etc., and have cured some of the most obstinate
and distressing cases after all remedies (so called)
have failed. Illustrated Circular and Price List
of Dr. Scott’s Genuine Electric Appliances sent
free to any address on application.
Pall Mall Electric Association,
50 Margaret Street, Sydney.
P.O. Box 221.
[Please -mention (his paper.]
&0
o
m
Is made with the utmost cauk from material
selected with the
(iRGATE§T KKW.iim lOlt PJ'KItV,
And for the soothing ;uul beneficial effect which
they impart to the skin and the complexion.
Gold. Medal, Paris, 1889
“ Unexcelled in Quality and Perfume."
The Referee.
As another batch of Our Boys will shortly be
“ upholding the honour of Australia ” in England, it is
necessary to turn the light of common-sense upon a num-
ber of old established fictions concerning these periodical
cricket campaigns. One very favourite fiction has been
that the Australians are comparatively out of practice
when their earlier matches are played, whereas it is the
Englishmen, just recovering from the long rest of a long
winter, who are at a disadvantage. Another fiction is
that Our Boys become worked off their legs, although
they have no more reasons for getting stale than the men
they will oftenest meet—the best amateurs and pro-
fessionals, who are under constant engagement to
play six days a week all around the country.
A very hollow fiction also is that the choice of in-
nings on a bad wicket must necessarily be a
a great advantage to the other side, but not necessarily
an advantage to our side. How often have Australian
journals, especially the hovenin’ liars, assumed that Mur.
doch or M‘l)onnell made an unfortunate mistake in send-
ing his men in first, and how invariably have they en-
larged upon the good luck of Grace or Shrewsbury in
being able to do the same thing ! Let’s havenomoreofit,
as Grattan Riggs would say. Australian cricket is good
enough on its honest merits, without the doubtful assist-
ance of newspaper “ blow,” or mean excuses. If the
Seventh Eleven gets beaten by any of the Counties, it will
be because the nine leading counties have the choice,
among them, of all the best cricketers in England, con-
sequently each may he said to have a population nearly
equal to that of Australia. If “ All England ” (the term
being fairly applicable) beats us, it will he because the
team is picked from a population equal to that of about
ten Australias. But don’t let us have any skite about
“magnificent victories” on wet wickets. It is no more
possible to play real cricket on rotten ground than to
play billiards on a queer table. Besides, in the whole
history of Anglo-Australian matches, did our local press
ever credit the Britishers with a magnificent victory when
t'.ie four innings produced something under 300 runs all
told ?
* * *
Snoozer was bougnt last week for Ikey Aarons,
the eminent bookmaker. When Ikey yells “ I’ll lay
Snoozer ” the verdant public mustn’t assume that Snoozer
is unwell. Oh dear, no! Ikey will merely be endeavour-
ing to lure ’em into a belief that his noble quadruped
isn’t going a yard, while all the time a brother-book
uny he doing his commission. The ways in which a
ready-money bookmaker can work his ’oss are many and
varied. The ways in which any other kind of owner can
do likewise are almost equally ditto. Thirdly and lastly,
to the means by which the unsuspicious punter can be
persuaded to drop his “ shugger ” there is positively no
end worth mentioning. The poor wretch hasn’t the
slightest—but there goes Lazarus Moses, and we must ask
him what price Titan for the next Derby and Cup. Hi
Lazy Mo !
* * #
Duncan Ross seems to be a very poor kind of
champion athlete of the world. Up to now he has estab-
lished no solid claim to be boss in any one branch of
athletes.
* * *
George Giffen never intended to go home. His
chief reason is, that the jealousy and bickering in the last
team he went with utterly disgusted him. More than
that, there is now a lady in the case. George meditates
marriage.
# * *
A resident of Bairnsdale, who styles himself
“Amateur Tipster,” asserts that he has discovered “a
system, based on mathematical calculations, whereby lie
can forecast the winner of any important race.” ' He
selected “Churchill or Gladstone for the Newmarket
Handicap,” and, the former having won, he now walks
the streets of Bairnsdale with a fully-inflated chest and a
much-swollen head. If his prognostications be infallible,
why did he not select only one horse? Having selected
two, why didn’t they run a dead-heat, or why did one run
nowhere ? A wealthy friend of ours once discovered “an
infallible martingale ” also ; we never neglect to send him
a pound of tobacco at Christmas, and once visiting him at
the Benevolent Asylum on New Year’s Day, we discovered
him disconsolate and weed-less, having once more proved
the fallibility of his system by “dropping ” every chew at
“ fly-loo.” The Bulletin is prepared to back the field at
starting price against the selections of “Amateur Tip-
ster ” or any other turf-prophet from now till Kingdom -
come, and after if possible.
* * *
A certain well-known “cronk” racing stable is
now known as “the Augean."
# * *
To cable over that the preparation of Narellan
and Kirkham has been interrupted by frost, is equivalent
to an announcement that the English climate goes on as
usual.
* * *
As the world knows, Dempsey beat McCarthy
at ’Frisco after a tremendous fight. This is what ap-
peared in a ’Frisco paper just before the battle:—“The
next big fight on the hooks is that between Jack Dempsey
and McCarthy. The outlook is not bright for it to ever
come off, and there is just a probability that poor Jack
will never again enter the ring. In the past few weeks he
has fallen away most terribly. The gallant ‘ Nonpareil,’
who fought strong at 154 pounds is only a skeleton of his
farmer self. He weighed exactly 133 pounds this week,
and before the date set for the fight this month, quick
consumption may claim him as a victim An effort has
been made by Dempsey’s more intimate friends to keep
■he bad news from spreading, but it is useless to hide it
longer. Jack has not the strength to battle even with a
child!”
* * #
A'sure sign of the times-the reduction of £l-
- to 10s.
# # #
After all, Murdoch is the strong point of the I
Australian Eleven, with his captaincy. He would hardly I
have dared to go while his father-in-law, Sandhurst Wat-
son, lived.
# * *
In a remarkably well-written letter to one of
bm Yankee papers, Edward Haulan holds forth on
hauliers and sculling generally, Haulan gives to O’Connor
the exact description which Australians gave to Hanlan-
perfect demon for a mile, but unable to keep up the
pressure if pushed. Stansbury lie describes as rough
m style, but a prodigy of strength and staying power,
hemp he says is a man of whose powers Britishers and
' ankees have no conception, but it is when he comes to
''‘Lean that Hanlan gushes. Hanlan says when M‘Lean
urst came to him he could not sit in a wagerboat, but he
kicked up wrinkles quicker than they were shown him,
and in a remarkably short time did a trial over the Parra-
matta equal to Beach’s best time. Xlanlan looks upon
M‘Lean as the future champion of the world. It is time
good old Scoatland had a turn.
* * *
A Victorian judge has ruled that the “purse-
trick,” so common to race-courses and other public
gatherings—in which a magsman pretends to sell a purse
containing sovereigns for half-a-crown, “palming the
sovs. and inserting ha’pence by legerdemain—is not a
“ game_of chance,” but is one of “skill.” On this ruling,
a conviction against a Melbourne sharper on a charge
of playing an “illegal game,” has been quashed
with costs. Law is undoubtedly a glorious heritage
and a magnificent puzzle. This incident reminds us of a
case, some years ago, in Adelaide, when Yillcneuve Smith,
barrister, procured a similar reversal of a conviction
against a three-card monte man. Smith argued that there'
was no “chance ” about the “ fake ” at all, and dared the
juhge to bet against a professional witness. We forget
whether his Honor did plank any coin, but, at any rate, it
was clearly demonstrated that he must lose every time if
he did bet, and that therefore there was no “chance” at
all, it being a “ dead certainty ” each throw for the monte
mail.
* # *
Ronnor weighs 18 stone, being two stone more
than condition. He says he has not struck 500 balls since
the 1888 trip.
* *' *
Murdoch started for England under the belief
that Gregory, Beane, and Bonnan were in the Australian
Eleven. No sooner was he gone than the Victorian Con-
tingent (geniality to the fore) ran in Walters, Harry, and
Trumble. Walters is a fine batsman, hut would have to
make 50 every innings to justify his inclusion in the team,
for he gives numberless runs to the opposing side by bad
fielding and slow moving. He is scarcely an “even-
timer,” for while going his hardest he puts his foot down
in almost the identical spot from which he raised it.
# * *
Whilst the selection and management of Aus-
tralian Elevens are monopolised by played-out cricketers
with a view to “gate,” it is scarcely probable a really
representative team can be raked together. The various
Associations and the Marylebone Club should negotiate
with the object of preventing Intercolonial cricket drift-
ing’ into the means of private enterprise. This is the
second time a hotch-potch Australian team have gone for
the “ ashes ” —and the dollars.
For sweet repose, healthy appetite, ruddy
cheeks and mountain air, go to —Eltham Park.
Henry Copeland, M.L.A. lectures on
Monday evening in Sydney Protestant Hall on
“ The Philosophy of Repudiation.” Hon.
Julian Salolnons will occupy the chair and the
lecturer will endeavour to deal with the arguments
advanced by Henry George in his recent utter-
ances.
The New York Sun has the following on
fair woman’s latest whims in underwear :
“The very latest absurd, mischievous, and wholly in-
comprehensible woman’s whim is the fancy for embroider-
ing mottoes and precepts all over those mysterious gar-
ments she wears beneath her gowns and reveals only in
the solitude of her chamber. The garments themselves
have developed wonderful tendencies of late, with their
silken, clinging folds, their transparent, candid draperies,
and their diverting decoration of sacred and interesting
sentiments twined in and out, a, froufrou of filmy lace, oi
a tangle of flower petals wrought in silk. A few years ago
a lady would turn away from a counter with blazing
cheeks if a shop assistant were to offer her undergarments
and gowns of silk which only footlight favourites dared to
revel in. Now many a decorous and conventional woman
need only lay aside her sweet tailor dress, don another
gauzy skirt, and she is suitably equipped to pose in the
front rank of the ballet, with a Bible text embroidered on
her stocking.
“ A set of chemises, forming part of a bride’s trousseau
were exhibited recently of black, br6wn, and delicately
tinted silk, with broad turned-down frills of lace drawn
up on ribbons about the neck, and a mass of lace and
ribbons for sleeves. These garments were ornamented
with tracings of blossoms in their natural colours, en-
tangling' sweet sentiments like ‘ Thou wort a beautiful
thought, and softly bodied forth,’or ‘Tender and true.’
A particularly exquisite creation of pale shadowy green,
with a frost of a lace about the neck, had a breast-plate of
embroidered lilies in white silk, in and out of which ran
the letters of the old saving, ‘ Consider the lilies,’ as if
one could.
“The slumber gowns have'their legends, too, pertinent
and suggestive—‘Slumber, darling, peaceful be thy
dreams,’ ‘ As I lay adreaming,’ ‘ lie giveth His beloveth
sleep,’ Ac. Little skirts have their literary broidery of
line upon line, anti precept upon precept, and on one of
those anomalous affairs known as a divided petticoat was
wrought Othello’s saying, ‘ I do perceive here a divided
duty.’
“ Black is at present the popular colour for underwear,
and figures largely in all bridal outfits, one of which
recently contained not a single article of white or bright
lingerie. Black laces, guipure and ohantilly, decorate
them ; fine tuckings and dainty needlework are displayed
whenever possible, and the laces are fulled on tiny ribbons
of the same sombre hue. It has been quite a severe
struggle to introduce the colour for garments coming in
contact with the flesh, but it has been accomplished, and
the most conventional and refined women wear black
chemises and gowns, corsets, &c., as they have long worn
black hose, with a very dazzling Frenchy and sensa-
tional effect when their sable frillings are drawn
up about snowy, plump, and dimpled shoulders. A still
later fashion is that of matching the colour of the gown,
whether -for street or house wear, in every garment worn
beneath it, from the stockings to the petticoats. An
beru dress, with dark fur trimmings, has skirts, chemise,
and all of soft fawn India silk, with brown guipure laces,
frills, and stitehings, and grey dresses are matched in
beautiful delicate silk, as softly shaded as a dove’s breast
feathers. Bark brown silk underwear is also very much
worn, and daintily dressy in effect with creamy lace trim-
mings and cream ribbons, tied at all its fastenings. These
coloured suits are always of flue silk with tucks, briar
stitehings, and smocking in finest needlework, and dainty
frillings of lace or the flower and motto decoration des-
cribed.”
We have received from the Orient S.S. Co.
a neat time-table, bound in red morocco, giving
the date of departure of steamers from Sydney
and their arrival in London. This should prove
very useful to travellers.
Dilke, in his “ Problems of Greater
Britain,” says that the Sydney Bulletin isn’t
satisfied with the Australian Stab. “Does
Dilke know anything our contemporary is satisfied
with?” asks the Star. That's an easy one. The
Bulletin is satisfied with itself when it looks
round among its contemporaries.
The first number of the Worker, a
monthly journal published in Brisbane with the
support of the Associated Workers of Queensland,
is to hand. It is well and clearly printed on good
paper, and as it is edited by William Lane, late of
the Boomerang, and starts with 14,000 sub-
scribers, may be expected to perform much useful
work.
TO MRS. GOWN TROTTER.
The points of the play we would have you bring
out,
But for that e’en a “ beauty ” needs genius and
brains
Your yawns, lissome lady, are gorgeous, no doubt,
But you’re “jumping the points ” in those ele
gant “trains.”
H. C. C.
Melbourne pietists are complaining again
that the poor working-man is being robbed of his
Sawbath, because the Tramway Company last
Sunday employed a few labourers to do some
necessary work joining tram-lines in Flinders-
street. Oh, what a solicitude there is for the
poor working-man ! Once Southey, the author
and poet, went to ask a favour of a lord, who
replied, “Well, you see, literature can take care
of itself.” “And of you, too!” said Southey.
Thus with labour, Messieurs Tartuffe, Maw worm,
Stiggins and Co.
Ladies’ Silver Watches, 355. Daiims & Co., King-street
Arcade.
THE GREAT REMEDY FOR PAIN.
ST. JACOBS OIL.
WHAT IT IS.
SIX STANDARD VIRTUES.
1st. It is in one word a cure; it is not merely
a relief, and in no sense a cure-all; it is the
product of scientific research.
2nd. It strengthens while it soothes and sub-
dues, heals, and cures ; it literally conquers pain.
3rd. Its effects are curative snd permanent to
the vvhole group of muscular miseries and nervous
agonies.
4th. It does not merely irritate the outer
surface, nor does it merely soften or relax a con-
stricted muscle. To its specific action a superior
curative virtue is superadded.
5th. It penetrates deeply but gently ; search-
ingly and surely seeking the pain spot in an effort
to conquer.
Gtii. Each constituent of the formula has a
recognised int insic virtue to serve most surely
the cure of pain.
For rheumatism, neuralgia, sprains, bruises,
stiff joints, swellings, and similar ailments St.
Jaoobs oil has positively no equal if used according
to the directions which accompany each bottle.
Aches and pains succumb in a truly marvellous
manner to the potent influence of this world-
famed remedy. Thousands of testimonials have
from time to time been published in the Austra-
lian press—testimonials from all ranks and con-
ditions of men —from statesmen, judges, eminent
divines, barristers, the medical profession, mer-
chants, athletes, &c., and although a large stand-
ing reward has been offered to any one who could
produce proof that any one of these was not
strictly genuine, none have dared to question their
authenticity, tinder these circumstances is it to
be wondered at that the sale of St. Jacobs oil
greatly exceeds the combined sales of all other
advertised lotions, liniments, embrocations, &e.,
in the world? No home can afford to be without
a bottle of it always handy, and purchasers would
do well to observe that they get the genuine
article and not one of the many spurious prepara-
tions made up to trade upon the enormous reputa
tion which St. Jacobs oil has built up for itself
upon the solid foundation of merit.
THE WATERBURY IN THE PULPIT.
G. M. Lowrance, of Yorkville, S.C., says, under
date of October 9, 1889: “Score one for the
Waterbury. The clergy approve of it. A short
time ago one of the ministers, while conducting a
series of meetings, a few miles west of this place,
was very much annoyed by parties opening and
snapping their massive oreide watches. Our
brother of the cloth bore with it as long as possible,
when his patience became exhausted, and he
kindly informed his hearers that a Waterbury
watch only cost 2.50dol., and with it one could see
the time without snapping the cased’
COMPARISONS ARS ODIOUS.
No watch can be as easily repaired as the
Waterbury. The fact that its parts are inter-
changeable, that they can be readily obtained,
constitute an advantage in readjustment which is
not possessed by other low-cost timepieces, par-
ticularly those of Swiss manufacture. Consider-
ing these last-named horological contrivances
there is no standard for comparison. Scarcely a
watch-dealer of any note or experience can be
found who does not look dubiously upon a Swiss
watch when brought to him for repairs. If a
wheel or pinion be broken it becomes a laborious
task to supply its place. Often many self-styled
half-taught repairers utterly fail in their attempts,
and when the job (and a “job” indeed it often
proves to be) is fairly well performed the sum
charged therefore is not a real equivalent for the
time and labour bestowed upon it, while to the
owner the amount of money seems fairly an ex-
tortion. Taking the question of repairs in all its
lights it is no assumption to say that the ease and
cheapness of restoring any damaged part when-
ever a Waterbury Watch meets with an accident
amounts to a very little—-a mere nominality.


Business Announcements.
PRIDDY & CO.,
Hats made to Order-
MANUFACTURERS
{ otjuts *
SVIERCERV.
Morley’s Hosiery.
438 George Street, Sydney.
Branch—67B George Street, Brickfield Hill.
PROBLEM OF TO-DAY—WHERE CAN WE GET GOOD
BOOTS ?—SOLVED AT LAST.
E. FR.E3STCH
(The French of years ago)
Can supply Residents here with Boots better made than
ever. Boots that must wear well and give satisfaction.
Send your orders then to 82 Oxford Street, and be sure
to enclose Sizes and Remittance, when your parcel will be
sent at once by Post, Rail, or Steamer.
Notice Prices for Boots that look well, wear well
and fit well.
Children’s Elastic-sides, 2/-, 2/11, 3/6, 4/-, 4/0, etc | Best
Men’s & Youths’ ditto, 5/6, 6/-, 6/6, 7/6, 8/6, etc. / Boots
Men’s & Boys’ Bluchers, 2/11, 4/-, 5/-, 6/-, best ever made.
A Line of Stylish Laced Boots for Best Wear
(Boys’, Youths’ and Men’s Sizes).
ENGLISH BOOTS for LADIES, CHILDREN, etc.,
Sent as ordered. Lowest Price.
Satisfaction given or Money Returned.
Note the Address:
ECLIPSE BOOT CO.,
B‘J Oxford Street, SIDNEY.
E. French, Manager.
J. LUDOWICI & SOUS,
Manufacturers and Importers of
Superior Oak-Tanned Leather Belting,
And every description of
Leather goods for. Machine and Engineering Purposes'
Hydraulic
Leathers.
/
Tangye Pump
Leathers.
All goods bearing the above Trade Mark are warranted to
give satisfaction, or may be returned at our expense.
Office and Factory: 162 Clarence-St., Sydney,
Between King and Market Streets.
TO ADVERTISERS.
We undertake the advertising of large business
houses—filing every paper advertised in, checking
appearances, and watching the interests of our
clients. We can save you money, lime and
anxiety. Write for our pamphlet “How to
Advertise, and Why.” F. T. WIMBLE & CO.,
Newspaper Advertising Bureau, Basement A.J.S.
Bank, 369,371 & 373 George-st., Sydney. Estimates
given for any number of papers by return mail.
-AUSTRALIAN -
Roller Fleur and Grain Stored,
GRANVILLE, N.S.W.
Sydney Office: - 173 CLARENCE STREET
(near King Street).
Brunton’s Patent Roller Flour
—AWARDED—
The Highest Order of Merit at every Competition,
AND
‘ Special Recommendation ” of the Jurors of the
Melbourne International Centennial Exhibition,
1888-89.
COLEmameisohs
EUCALYPTE. OlLsa.
mi
Victory Ointment^
THE TREE OF LIFE.
m esteem
m
The only pure Eucalypte in the World.
AWARDED Gold Medal Adelaide Jiibileo
. Exhibition. First Prize Great Centennial
Exhibition, Sydney. The only known CURE for
Asthma, Bronchitis, Consumption, Pleurisy,
Colds, Coughs, and all affections of the Chest and
Lungs; also, for Gout, Rheumatism, Sciatica,
etc. Our VICTORY OINTMENT stands with-
out a rival for Bad Legs, Bad Breasts, Cancers,
Tumours, and skin diseases of all kinds. Also,
manufacturers of the Eucalypte Pills, Eucalypte
Hair Restorer, Eucalypte Soap, and our world-
famed Eucalypte Honey is the best preparation
before the public for young Children and aged
people. Also, makers of the Eucalypte Lozenges
for the Voice. Manufactory—CooTAMUNDUA.
Sydney Wholesale Depot—2sl Elizabeth Stkert
Posted to any part of the Colonies. Sold Every-
where. Beware ok Imitations.
Treasurer M‘Millan has accepted a seat on
the Sydney Board of the Equitable Life Assurance
■society of the U.S.
Of course Premier Parkes has trotted out
n the St. Enkial Magazine a fac-simile of his
letter from Gladstone. It is interesting to note
that m the original, Gladstone “Remains, dear
sir H. Parkes, very faithfully yours.” “Dear
hr H. Parkes !”
The N.S.W. Department of Public Instruc-
tion has issued a notice to teachers that if they
mel aggrieved at any time they may appeal. Does
this mean that hitherto they have not had that
right ! And, as teachers are supposed to be men
of intelligence, was it necessary for the authorities
to have the notice so worded as to imply—“ You
may appeal, but you had better not.”
In Germany every newspaper has an
official called the “sitz ” (or sitting) editor, whose
name is regularly announced at the head of a
column in his journal, thus : “ Frederick Heldrich,
sitz-editor, ” and he is supposed to be responsible
ior everything that appears in the paper, though
tie never sees a line which goes into it, never
writes a sentence for publication, and need not
necessarily be able to write his own name. How-
j aver, he has to stand sponsor for anything which
;s_ printed. Thus, if any writer on the paper
wishes to indulge in an attack upon the Crown or
Bismarck, he does so with impunity, and next
day the police pounce upon the sitz-editor and he
is carried off to gaol. Here his salary goes on just
the same, and a new sitz-editor is secured. There
are so many of these people imprisoned that the
term sitz-editor is now nearly synonymous with
sitting editor in gaol.”
Reliable W atoh Repairs. Dahavs & Co., King-st. Arcade.
An Ashfield (Sydney) alderman asserts
that a cow has suffered much in mind and body
because it had been left in the local pound. In
body because it was left in the pound ; in mind,
probably because the pound adjoins the Council
Chambers.
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
Observe how your Toper always drags his
limbs unwillingly over the pavement, on accepting
the shout, and before entering the bar-door, he
will look up and down street, as much as to say,
“ I don’t want to go, you know.” Then he pops
in like a bobby. The glutinous properties of
alcohol necessitate the wipe.
Governor Norman, of Queensland, came
out by the Quetta, but Captain Withers, who
brought him out, didn't risk his neck last trip.
Norman took to him, and now the gallant
captain is ashore in Brisbane, waiting till the
Port Mastership plum can be dropped into his
mouth. There may be no connection in this ; and
then again governors are kingly in their affections
and have a habit of gratifying them at other
people’s expense.
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
This is a correct account of the now cele-
brated Boucaut-Bibleincidentat Adelaide Supreme
Court the other day Lawyer (to witness, known
to be an agnostic) : “ Do you believe in the Bible,
Price?” Judge Boucaut (sarcastically): “ Who
does ? I don’t!” The lawyer said, “ I hope I do,
you know.” Judge Boucaut : “Well, the Bishop
of Peterborough said the other day he didn’t !
The jury are not such fools now-a-days as to be
humbugged in that way !”
Aarons’ Exchange Hotel, Sydney.
A.
**£S^” r »**s*
T7I
}: ;: i 1 : 3h;!|
. -
IS
* i'
r“ir
if-
■■« «" I v ''V &T»
I , l J hS.
rr-tc'
* IaISg
• a .,W -
I
N *■■■•■■■ «. M * • v' ' %'■ .♦' »'f
:,.jv
*S»CTBMiSMg -■ rsmmmim
Adjoining the Sydney Exchange.
Mining, Financial and General Mercantile Intelligence
Posted several times DAILY in the Building.
TELEGRAPH, POST and MONEY ORDER OFFICES on the PREMISES.
This Hotel has been thoroughly renovated and re-furnished, and is now unrivalled for comfort
and attention.
Aarons’ Exchange Hotel Co. (Limited), Proprietors.
TO HAIRDRESSERS.
‘F yon want any requisite in connection with the trade send to CRAIG <Sc AITKEN
. who are in the trade themselves and know what is required. Drop us a line 01 give us a call and
we will fix you up as regards price. They have in stock
Just Arrived. —A Large Shipment of all sizes BROWN & SHARPE’S HAIRCLIPPERS
Every Brand of RAZORS and SCISSORS kept.
We engage Competent Assistants for any part of the Australian colonies, and guarantee thev will
be First-Class Workmen, as we thoroughly test them in our own saloon before sending them.
Send for Price List to their Only Address :
680 & 682 George Street, Brickfield TTili, Sydney.
JONES’ SEWING MACHINES,
FOR THE BOOT AND TAILORING TRADES.
The Best Manufacturing Machines in Existence.
Now Perfected, the New No. 3 and No. 4 Machines on an Entirely new System
stock: jtjst laudiitg.
Nettlielm, & 00.,
Farlelgh,
TANNERS
XG x YORK
AND LEATHER MERCHANTS,
x STREET, x SYDKTEY.
Sole Agents for the above for New South Wales and Queensland
-(x)
G.SO Importers of Requisites for the ROOT MANUFACTURING TRADE in all Details inoludimr MAGMimwdv
MPOUTED LEATHERS, &o. ; and of the following Spkciai, Links: IVcrlcss Glo«» ’ s . ~. 1 'J. , R V -
■thickill];. Tanners’ Tools and Materials. Indents Executed on Favourable Terms. . , " l,m
Medical.
DR. RICHARDS.
ROOMS
UTIW
CONSU
U-
m
i ;
1 DR. RICHARDS
a
3
IWlMfillTiq
This eminent Specialist, Founder, and Chief
Surgeon of the long-established and favourably-
known Dispensary that now bears his name, re-
ceived his medical education in the leading colleges
and hospitals of Europe. He has devoted a life-
time to the study of
PRIVATE, NERVOUS, AND SKIN
DISEASES.
He has by profound research thoroughly investi-
gated their origin, traced their deadly sources and
insidious dissemination, and ascertained the surest
and safest methods by which they may be eradi-
cated, with these widely recognised qualifications
combined with unswerving faithfulness to hi 5
patients, he has during his practice, extending
over FORTY YEARS, attained a well-deserved
pre-eminence in their treatment. His practice
embraces diseases which probably cause more un-
happiness than any other class of troubles that
afflict mankind.
YOUNG MEN
who suffer from the results of early follies, trans-
gressions or excesses of more nature age, bladder
difficulties, a whitish or dark ropy sediment in
the water, accompanied by slight burning or
smarting sensation, Headaches, Drowsiness during
ihe day, circles round the eyes, Giddiness,
irregularity of the bowels, specks before the eyes,
bashfulness, discontentedness, weakness or pains
in the back, Liver or kidney complaints, dreams,
buzzing noises in the ears and head, pimples, a
fear that something dreadful is about to happen,
weak stomach, yellow or blood-shot eyes, impure
blood, hasty, uncontrollable temper, hacking
cough, who cannot marry, nervousness in society,
wakefulness, palpitation of the heart, general
weakness, and other symptoms which lead to in-
sanity and death, should consult him, for he has
mastered these difficulties. On receipt of 6d. in
stamps he will send secure from observation in a
plain wrapper, postage
FREE, A LARGE CLOTH-BOUND
BOOK.
Showing plainly how all diseases of the private or
nervous system may be cured thoroughly and per-
manently without unnece-sary expence. This
book will prove a valuable companion, and even
though you be perfectly well its general inform-
tion and prescription may assist you in restoring
some poor friend to health even after his case has
been pronounced incurable by his medical at-
tendant.
ONE POUND IS SUFFICIENT TO
SEND
for Remedies necessary for the cure of NER-
VOUS DEBILITY. Should you require medical
treatment, as 'procrastination is sometimes dan-
gerous, it would be advisable for you to sit down
quietly in your chamber and write to the doctor,
detailing every experienced symptom. He will
on receipt of such a letter, write you, promptly
and courteously, a candid and straightforward
oponion of your case. If you do not think you
understand the case, send for his famous medical
\york, the price of which is but sixpence ; enclosed
in the volume will be found a list of carefully-pre-
pared questions, which will, in all probability,
assist you materially in describing your ailment.
Dr. Richards uses nothing but the purest remedies,
and never prescribes mercury under any circum-
stances. The moment letters arc carefully per-
used and answered they are destroyed by fire,
and patients may rest assured that their cases
will remain a secret between the doctor and
themselves. Dr. Richards has successfully treated
nearly 25,000 cases since coming to Australia, and
has permission from at least 10,000 persons to
show their written evidence of his success. All
communications should bo addressed
Dr. RICHARDS,
V Spring Street
(Off Pitt Street North)
SYDNEY.
Be sure to mention this paper when wrif.it.
CONSULTATION PIIEE.
HOLIDAY FARE.
Charitable Visitor:
“I belong to the Motto
Mission, and I hear you
are a hard-working,
patient, deserving widow
and that your children
sometimes go without
meals, I have brought
you one of our prettiest
devices to hang on your
wall to comfort you in
your gloomy moments. ”


Business Announcements.
The Australian Mercantile Loan and
Guarantee Co. (Limited).
Head Office ;
Corner of Market ami York Streets, SYDNEY.
Melbourne—2B3 CoTlins-street East.
Brisbane—Corner Edward and Elizabeth Streets.
Newcastle -27 Hunter-street.
Duikctoratk :
FRANK J. SMITH, Esq., M.L.A., Managing Director.
J. F. HOWE, Esq., M.L.A. G. J. FINLAYSON, Esq.
E. H. BUCHANAN, Esq. JAMES MILLER, Esq.
The Company grant immediate advances upon
Deeds of Land, Bills of Lading, Merchandise,
Storage, and Bond Certificates, and all classes of
mercantile and other approved securities, for fixed
terms or repayable by instalments.
Interest Allowed on Deposits:
3 months ... 6 per cent.
r. <7
A. MILLER ... General Manager.
THE
Australian Banking Company,
LIMITED.
PITT and MARKET STREETS, SIDNEY,
Incorporated under the Companies Act, 187 U.
Authorised Capital, £500,000, in 100,000 Shares of £5 each.
Subscribed Capital, £75,000.
FRANCIS ABIGAIL, M.L.A.,
Chairman of the Board of Directors.
A Branch of the Bank has been opened at Goulburn
under the management of C. H. Atkinson, Esq. (lately
Branch Manager of the Bank of New South Wales) for the
transaction of General Banking Business.
The Bank lias paid its Shareholders a dividend of 10 per
cent, every half-year since its formation.
The Bank transacts all usual banking business in every
particular.
Special advantages granted to Commercial Clients.
Overdrafts granted against deposit of Deeds.
THE HIGHEST RATES OF INTEREST GIVEN FOR
FIXED DEPOSITS.
The Share Register is now open for the allotment of
Shares—New Issue.
By order of the Board of Directors.
RODERICK M‘NAMARA, Manager.
Forms of application for Shares may be obtained at the
Bank.
TURPIN & BRIAN,
Wholesale and Family Grocers,
616 George Street, Sydney,
ARE
REMOVING
To those Spacious Premises formerly occupied
by R. S. TIGHE, Wholesale Grocer,
623 GEORGE STREET
SYDNEY.
LOOK OUT FOR FUTURE ISSUES.
r ” NOTE THE ADDRESS:
623-George Street-623
Brickfield Hill, SYDNEY,
(Two Doors from Lawler’s.)
Hotels.
PFAHLEET’S HOTEL,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.,
Opposite the Park, Wynyard Square.
(Under New Management.)
rpHIS for 25 years well-known First-class Central Hotel,
J recently thoroughly renovated throughout, has every
comfort and attention of a horns. The Cuisine Department
is under competent French supervision. Dining Room
open for Non-Residents. Open-air Recreation Garden.
A well-ventilated Billiard Room adjoining Recreation
Ground (three Alcock’s best Tables), under the manage-
ment of A. Buckingham, late of Empire Hotel. Wines
and Spirits of the very best quality onlj% and the Finest
and Coolest Bar in Town
HOT AND COLD BATHS.
WIGHT PORTKIt. French |
German -
Telephone Wo. IS*. Italian J
Spoken .
SPECIAL SUITES FOR FAMILIES.
CIIAS. HBCHT
Manager.
ATO OMB A F A MIL Y HOT EL.
JOSEPH IMIMMO.
First-class Accommodation for Tourists and Families-
Wires and Let ters to be addressed “ Proprietor.”
Arrangements can be made to provide transit for persons
wishing to view the celebrated .leiiolnn <«ves and
other places of interest.
ISTORY OF BOTANY BAY.
PRICE-ONE SHILLING.
The proprietors of the Adelaide dailies
are in trouble and are asking whether Heaven
can possibly have deserted them? It is not a
Reporters’ Association that is vexing their pious
minds ; it is not the banding together, but simply
the disappearance of their staffs that is the
matter. Overwork, rigid discipline, low wages,
and no prospects have done their work at last, and,
since Parliament rose, the senior reporters have
been sending in their resignations almost en masse.
It says volumes for their loyalty to their em-
ployers that they chose to wait for the recess; had
they thrown up the sponge when Parliament was
on, the dailies would have been in a tighter posi-
tion than they are now, and columns of political
rubbish and undiluted piety would have gone
unchronicled. Two of theretiring journalists have
started a comic paper themselves ; others have gone
on ’change or into commercial houses —any place,
anywhere to get away from the hopeless
grind on the dailies. One of the torments of the
Adelaide reporter has always been Hansard.
This work he has to do at about half the salary of
the Government Hansard men in Victoria and
New South Wales, besides all his ordinary news-
paperengagements. Which means that after a busy
morning the unhappy wight has to turn up in the
Press Gallery at 2 in the afternoon and between
that hour and 2 a.m., next day, he lias to turn out
from two to four columns of small type, represent-
ing his share of the Parliamentary hog-wash which
has been uttered during the sitting. Unless the
intelligent policeman can be worked in to take a
note it is hard to see what is to become of Adelaide
journalism. Election speeches are suffering al-
ready and the time may not be far off when even
the remarks of the bun-worrying parson may be
cut down at public meetings. This, however, is
too ghastly a thought to be pursued further.
Bona-Fide announcement. Highest cash price
given for all kinds of gent’s left off clothing.
Dress-suits for sale or hire. Letters promptly
attended to by QUITTENTON BROS., 11l
Russell street, MELBOURNE. (New number,
163.)
The late Reverend Mr. Smaill, an aged
Scotch divine, for many years prided himself in
1 having been to college with Carlyle, and with
having known him intimately when they were
both young men, and he used frequently to get up
in the pulpit and heave big chunks of Carlyle’s
mightiest rhetorical road-metal at the heads _of
his congregation. When the Sage of Chelsea died
and went to where there is no dyspepsia and
where Scotchmen are few, the aged and reverend
divine rose to the occasion and preached an elo-
quent sermon on the death of the great genius, in
which he told his hearers, for the last time, in
moving terms of their early friendship and expati-
ated largely on the many estimable qualities of
his deceased friend. When some time afterwards
“Carlyle’s Reminiscences ” were pitchforked on the
reading world by Mr. Fronde, the good old
minister, curious to see whether any notice
was taken of himself and their early inti-
macy hastened to procure a oopy. He found
that Carlyle had not forgotten him. Here
was his name immortalised by the renowned
author of “ Sartor Resartus.” He started reading
with great eagerness. After perusing some preli-
minary remarks of a harrowing character, the
minister came to the following extraordinary
account of himself Poor Smaill, too, I may
dismiss as thoroughly insignificant, conceited, and
harmless. Became an insignificant, flowery,
burgher minister somewhere in Galloway, and
died there within a few years.”- The old man
groaned in anguish of spirit, and soon afterwards
retired from this earth, probably in search for
Carlyle.
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
Old-fashioned Jewellery modernised to perfection. De-
signs free. Daiims and Go., King-street Arcade.
Land at Perth, W.A., the best investment.
Plans from Intercolonial Investment Co., Ltd.,
96 Bathurst-ttreet, Sydney.
When next you bake try Pemell’s Snow-white Patent
Roller Flour, and your bread will be as white as snow.
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
Business Announcements.
"MlUlliv
H. E. Leacli
SUCCESSOR TO
GB. MODINI, Gunmaker.informshis Customers
• and the Public in general that he has the largest
assortment of Firearms in the colony. Qualities and prices
to defy competition. Guns by the following celebrated
gunmakers J. Purdey & Sons, Ch. Boswell, John Rigby
and Co., Joseph Lang & Sons, Oh. OsbOrne & Co., Thomas
Bland & Son. A large assortment of various other makers
always on hand, viz., W. W. Greener, Scott, Wesley,
Hollis & Sons, Riley and Cashmore. All goods will be
faithfully guaranteed at 602 George-street, Sydney.
Price list on application.
EDWIN G. GOERTZ,
Stock and Share Broker,
PIITAIsrCIAL AGEIsTT,
BRISBANE.
Member of the Brisbane Stock Exchange.
Shipping.
TTNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF NEW
U ZEALAND. Limited.
SAN FRANCISCO ROYAL MAIL SERVICE.
OVERLAND ROUTE TO ENGLAND VIA SAN
FRANCISCO AND NEW YORK,
Calling at
AUCKLAND and HONOLULU,
Avoiding alike the heat of the Red Sea and the cold
of Cape Horn.
Under Contract with the Postmasters-General of New
South Wales and New Zealand, the steamers of this line
are appointed to leave Sydney and Auckland for Honolulu
and San Francisco every 4thWednesday,sailingasunder:—
Each steamer carries a duly qualified surgeon.
These steamers are fitted with Electric Light and with a
Refrigerating Chamber for ship provisions, insuring a
plentiful supply of ice throughout the voyage.
Passengers are booked to San Francisco or through to
European destinations and have at San Francisco choice of
the unrivalled Atlantic Steamship Lines of the Cunard,
Inman, White Star, and other companies.
All first-class passengers are allowed 3501 b. of baggage
to San Francisco and 2501 b. “Overland ” free of charge.
THROUGH FARE TO LIVERPOOL.
FIRST-CLASS £63 to £66.
Time-cards, railway maps, and gu de books, showing all
routes to any point in the United States, may be had on
application
For rates of passage and freight and all other informa-
tion apply at the Company’s Offices, 15 Bridge-street.
FREDK. W. JACKSON, Manager,
Business Announcements.
Federated Squatters
—AND—
Farmers’ Co-Operative Association of Australasia, Limited,
CIRCULAR SYDNEY.
WOOL and PRODUCE BROKERS, STOCK and STATION AGENTS.
Advances Made and Deposits Received at Current Rates. Correspondence Invited,
ALLAN A. MARSHALL & CO.,
Engineers, Coppersmiths, Brass and Bell Founders,
Finishers, Plumbers, Ship & General Smiths,
Gasfitters, Art & Medi jeval Metal Worke r
UOI.IJ i! SKATES (any make) with BRASS or WOODEN WHEELS.
Verity’s Gas Fires, Heaters and Ventilators at greatly Reduced Prices—ll,ooo Fires already in use
Importers and Manufacturers of Diving Gear, Yacht and Boat Work of every description in
Iron or Brass, Ships’ Single and Double Action Valve Closets, Fire Hydrants, Hose and all appliances
Bon Accord Works, t) Macquarie Place, Sydney.
Cold Medal
Acknowledged
The Best
COMMERCIAL TRAVELLERS, TOURISTS, &c.
o
ROYAL HOTEL, LITHGOW,
The leading resort for
Commercial Travellers, and Tourists.
The Largest Sample Rooms on (ho Western Line. Horses and Rugbies for Hire.
Nothing hut the Best Brands of spirits sold, over the, bar.
Hug’ll Wallace, Proprietor. Late of Wallerawang'.
Shipping.
JJUDDART, PARKER and CO.’S LINE.
STEAM TO MELBOURNE AND
TASMANIA.
FROM HUDDART, PARKER’S WHARF'
FOR MELBOURNE WHARF DIRECT—
BURRUMBEET ! 4000 tons | Tuesday, March 25, 10 p.m.
FOR LAUNCESTON, VIA MELBOURNE-
transhipping to S.S. NEWCASTLE.
BURRUMBEET | 4COO tons | Tuesday, March 25, 10 p.m.
These magnificent Steamships have already established
a reputation for their accommodation, and their large size
insures passengers a maximum of comfort. The SALOON
CABINS are light and airy and very roomy. FGRE-
CABIN is on main deck, lofty and well ventilated. Com-
plete sanitation and lavatories. ELECTRIC LIGHTING
throughout the ships. Inspection invited on days o f
sailing.
RETURN TICKETS AVAILABLE FOR SIX MONTHS.
For rates of Freight and Passage-money apply
HUDDART, PARKER & CO., Limited.
Offices and Wharf—Foot of Margaret-street.
BJiASMANIAN EXCURSIONS.
The splendid
S. S. BUR RU M BEE T, 4000 Tons,
will sail for HOBART DIRECT
on
TUESDAY, MARCH 25, at 10 p.m.
GREAT REDUCTION IN FARES.
SALOON £lO 0
RETURN .. .. .. .. 1 10 0
STEERAGE 0 10 0
RETURN TICKETS AVAILABLE FOR SIX MONTHS.
Also GREAT REDUCTION iN FREIGHT.
HUDDART, PARKER & CO, Limited.
Office and Wharf—Foot of Margaret Street.
NORDDEUTSCHER LLOYD.
IMPERIAL GERMAN MAIL.
Passengers are carried according to the requirements of
the English Passenger Acts of 1885 and 1863.
MONTHLY LINE OF DIRECT STEAMERS
from
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, and ADELAIDE,
to SOUTHAMPTON, ANTWERP, and BREMEN, via
COLOMBO, Aden, Suez, and Genoa,
taking passengers for London,
connecting from PORT SAID by DIRECT MAIL and
PASSENGER LINE to BRINDISI,
will be despatched as follows (if practicable):—
And thereafter every four weeks.
PASSAGE MONEY from SYDNEY,
£l4 to £57 10s.
RETURN TICKETS, available for NINE and TWELVE
MONTHS, at REDUCED RATES.
Passengers and Cargo are booked through to New York,
via Southampton.
Special facilities are afforded for bringing out relatives
and friends from the United Kingdom and Europe by pre-
payment of the passage money in Australia.
For FREIGHT, PASSAGE, and all further particulars,
apply to FREDK. BETZ & CO., Agents, 5 O’Connell-street.
|-JIRECT SERVICE TO ENGLAND.
PENINSULAR AND ORIENTAL STEAM
NAVIGATION COMPANY.
The Company’s Royal Mail Steamships (under contract
with the Imperial, New South Wales, Victorian, and South
Australian Governments) will be dispatched from their
Wharf, Circular Quay, as under, for LONDON, calling at
Melbourne, Adelaide, Albany, Colombo, Aden, Brindisi,
Malta, Gibraltar, and Plymouth.
Cl ri
> 2 S
cd C •
CD 'p
I >
D S-
c 3 <3
Steamers.
Commander
j STS A
I |>»rH
Oi o
'6362 W. B. Andrews
. 6257 J. Orman ..
. 5013 W. A. Wheler .
. 6268 G. F. Cates .
. 4019 R. F. Briscoe .
Ballaarat .. *4748 E. Ashdown
Aread ia
Britannia
Carthage
Victoria
Valetta
iMar. 29 (April 4 lAprl 7
April 15 April 19 Ap. 23
May 6 .May 10 : May 14
May 20 (May 24 May2B
June 3 (June 7 Juii.il
June 17 June 21 Jun.2s
And henceforth every alternate week.
RESERVED CABINS ON MODERATE TERMS.
SALOON PASSENGERS MAYBREAK THEIR JOURNEY.
The arrangements for SECOND SALOON PASSENGERS
having been thoroughly re-organised, the accommodation
now offered is unsurpassed. Passage-money can be paid
here for passages from England. Liberal concessions made
to families. Passengers, cargo, and parcels are booked
through to India, China, and Japan. Cargo and parcels
will not be received after 3 p.m. oil the day previous to
sailing. For all information apply at the Company’s
Offices, 247 George-street. A. MACLEAN Acting Agent.
COMPAGNIE DES MESSAGERIES MARI-
TIMES.
SYDNEY to LONDON.
OVERLAND FROM MARSEILLES via PARIS.
Steamers under postal contract with the Government of
France, calling at MELBOURNE ADELAIDE, KING
GEORGE’S SOUND, MAKE, SUEZ, and PORT SAID.
Passengers booked to KURRACHEE, BOMBAY.
MAURITIUS, and BAST COAST of AFRICA.
The service is carried on by powerful steamers of 4000
tons and 3000 effective h.p., built expressly for the Aus-
tralian and New Caledonian line, which will be despatched
as follows:
And thenceforward on the 25th of each month.
Rates of passage-money to Marseilles from £2O to £65,
including table wines and Suez Canal dues on passengers.
RETURN TICKETS issued at the following rates
Third
Class.
£34
£36
English interpreters meet through passengers for
London on arrival of steamers at Marseilles, and accom-
pany them to Paris and Calais. N.B.—Passengers’ luggage
conveyed free of cost from Marseilles to London. For
freight, passage, and further particulars apply at (he
Company’s Office, 15 Macquarie-place.
A. CONIL, Principal Agent.
JOHN BRIDGE & 00.,
CIRCULAR QUAY, SUSSEX STREET, .0
T)A RLI NO HA RDO UR,
WOOL BROKERS,
Hides, Tallow, Sheepskins, Kangaroo, Bear and
Opossum Skins, Ac.
auctioWeebs.
GRAIN - SALES MEN,


HEAD THIS. A few quotations from H. C. Armstrong’s extensive DIM! G GIST S’ SUNDRIES STOCK LIST.
Single Trusses ... ... ... ...
Double Trusses . .
Men’s Strengthening Belts and Supports ...
Women’s ditto ditto
Men’s and Woman's Magnetic and Electric
Belts, Supports and Corsets ...
From
•»
• I
• »
3/0
0/6
2/0
4/5
„ 6/6
Air Cushions and Pillows
Ice Bags
Feet and Stomach Warmers
Reversible Celluloid Trusses
Bath Gloves and Rubbers
Chest Protectors (various colours, all sizes)
Respirators for the Mouth (various kinds)
Mother's Nursing Aprons and Bibs
India-rubber Water Bottles, screw top, two
pints to one gallon ...
From 1/-’
2/-
” i/b
„ 12/6
From
t
Finest Turkey Toilet Sponges ... .
Finest Turkey Bath Sponges ... ■
Pocket Spirit and Oil Lamps for Boiling
Water and Food ~. ... ... » , '
Piesse & Lubins’ Perfumes ... 22/-peraoz.
Pears’ assorted Toilet Soaps ... ... 4/(5 per doz.
tar Kindly send for complete PRICE LIST, which includes all H. C. ARMSTRONG’S WELL-KNOWN PROPRIETARY MEDICINES.
Note the Address:
•ft. CJ. ARMSTRONG, 156 George street KTortli, Sydney
(NEAR CIRCULAR QUAYIj
And at AVILCANNIA, BROKEN HILL, SILVERTON and MOUNT BROWNE, N.S.W.
“ Looking Backward” Bellamy’s younger
brother has written a book called “ An Experi-
ment in Marriage,” in which marriage as a mutual
agreement lasting only so long as both parties are
willing, is recommended. As Dundreary used to
say : “ Marry me, my dear, and if you don't like
me, you can go back to your ma.”
“Monsignor” Haussmann, nephew of the
famous architect of that name, is dead. On espous-
ing the E,C. Church he was compelled to declare
that his union with his wife was only a platonic
one. After making this declaration he still con-
t nued to live at intervals with his wife and
mother-in law, but, nevertheless, was the recipient
of many ecclesiastical dignities, including nomina-
iion to the Pope’s household. He left all h's
money to his wife.
It is said that Albert Edward and his
spouse are somewhat capricious in the treat-
ment of their guests at Sandringham. Conduct
which in the evening may be deemed very charm-
ing and amusing, may be resented as presump-
tuous next morning, and between the fear of being
too familiar, and the dread of being regarded as
dull, a visitor at Sandringham—and especially a
new one who is on trial, as it were —is between the
devil and the deep sea.
Keirl, the alleged swindler, arrested in
Melbourne, was a noticeable witness in the case
of Laura Swain, who was drowned in the Yarra,
at Victoria-street bridge. The question was
whether she had thrown herself off or been thrown
off by Captain Moore, and the verdict was an open
one. Keirl’s evidence was that previously she
had told him she contemplated suicide. This was
fancied to be a make-up, from his love of notoriety.
He has been a darling of the Block, figuring suc-
cessively as theological student, medical student,
and turf gambler.
(Jumboil Cairns has left no will. A London
paper asserts that his “ generosity, hospitality
and ‘little suppers’ fairly astonished the inhabi-
tants of the * uninteresting town of Brisbane ’
while he was in faraway Queensland.” Poor soul!
what an epitaph to write for him ! His father, a
Scotch lawyer with a cast-iron brain, achieved
intellectual pre-eminence. Cairns, junior, was a
nice soft, rabbitty, good-hearted, foolish youth,
who stood a breach of promise action in the old
world and little suppers in the new one. The
reductio ad absurduin of the hereditary principle,
in fact.
The N.S.W. National Club seems to be
sadly lacking in organisation. Its political busi-
ness is grossly mismanaged, and unless some-
thing is speedily done to set matters right, it will
be hard to command the respect or allegiance of
the metropolitan and country Protection organisa-
tions at the next general election. The club
appears to be desperately pressed financially,
whereas the Freetraders are so wealthy that at a
pinch they could put golden soles and heels on the
boots of every voter in the land.
£5O reward £5O
FRAUD and DECEIT.
In order to protect the people from being
defrauded and cheated, the American Hop
Bitters Company offers the above Reward
for the arrest and conviction of any person
or persons retilling the American Hop Bitters
Company’s bottles, and for selling any vile
nostrum or compound as the genuine and
original Dr. Soule’s American Hop Bitters,
or for counterfeiting the Company’s Label—
a Bunch of Green Hops on a White Label,
with Black Letters,
DR. SOULE’S
AMERICAN
HOP - BITTERS
(A MEDICINE, NOT A DRINK),
CONTAINS
HOPS, BUCHU, MANDRAKE
DANDELION.
And tub Purest and Best Medical Qualities of all
Other Bitters,
THEY CURE
All Diseases of the Stomach, Bowels, Blood, Liver,
Kidneys and Urinary Organs, Nervousness, Sleeplessness,
Female Complaints and Drunkenness.
THOUSANDS UPON THOUSANDSI!I
of testimonials of the most wonderful cures, voluntarily
sent us, we do not publish them, as they do not make the
cure. It is our medicine, Dr. Soule’s American Hop
Bitters that makes the cure. It has never failed and
never can. We will give reference to any one for any
disease similar to their own if desired, or will refer to any
neighbour, as there is not a neighbourhood in the known
world but can show its cures "by Dr. Soule’s American
Hop Bitters.
NO OTHER GENUINE. TAKE NO OTHER.
99
HIGHLY NUTRmvt
MAY BE OBTAINED IN LABELLED TiNSOR PACKETS THHUUGHOUTTHEf.OIONY.
THE SYDNEY DRIVERS’PROTECTIVE ASSOCIATION
—AND
INSURANCE, FINANCIAL, and GENERAL ESTATE AGENCY.
£lOO,OOO ONE HUNDRED THOUSAND POUNDS TO LEND £lOO,OOO
In sums not less than Five Pounds (£5) on all classes of Approved Security at to 7 per cent.
Property released from Building Societies, &o.
Offices; Exchange Chambers, George and Campbell Streets, Haymarhet, Sydney, N.S.W.
This Company is for the Benefit of all Horse Drivers and Proprietors of Horses and Vehicles.
Proprietors Please Note: -This Company is responsible for your horses and vehicles, providing you r
drivers are subscribers (same as if the said drivers’ own property).
VETERINARY SURGEON ;
John Pottle, Esq.,'.M.R.C.V.S.,E., 232 Castlereagh-st.,Syd.
COACHKl; ILDERS:
Messrs. Robertson and Co., Factory, 417 Pitt-st., Sydney.
C. Whately, Esq., Factory, Newtown.
DOCTORS:
A. C. Brownless, Esq., M.U., 285 Elizabeth-st., Sydney.
J. G. Bourchier, Esq,, M.D., J.P., Redfern-st., Redfern.
DISPENSING CHEMIST:
11. A. Rose,' Esq., M.P.S., 531 George-st., Sydney.
SOLICITOR :
\V. J. Hill, Esq., 26 Elizabeth-st., Sydney.
BANKERS:
The Australian Joint Stock Bank, Haymarket.
MANAGING DIRECTOR :
Francis Australia Piper, A., 0.E,, Q.S.
Office Hours : 9 a.m. till 12.30., and 2 p.m. till 5 p.m.
Subscribers Claims on the Company.
1. —Have the services of the Company’s Solicitor free
for their defence at the Police Courts when summoned for
breaches of the by-laws of the M.T.O. and 5.M.0., and his
special advice in connection with any such cases.
2. —ln addition to the above the Company will lend sub-
scribers money to pay their fines into Court, which they
can arrange to pay off by instalments.
3. —Are entitled to send their vehicles to the Company’s
coachbuilders and have any damage, caused by accident,
made good, free to any amount not exceeding Five Pounds
Five Shillings (£5 65.) for each and every accident.
4. —Have the attendance of the Company’s Veterinary
Surgeon on their horses, and medicines free. If a horse
dies from natural causes the carcase will be removed ; if
killed by accident Five Pounds Five Shillings (£5 55.) will
be paid for same.
5.—A Subscriber is allowed two horses and one vehicle.
Special arrangements made where Subscribers are using
more than two horses.
0. —Have the attendance of the Company’s Doctor and
Medicines free. In case of death from natural causes the
deceased shall be buried by the Company ; if killed by
accident, Ten Pounds Ten Shillings (£lO 10s.) in addition
to funeral expenses.
7. Subscriber being a married man can, by paying Is.
6d. extra per month, have the doctor and medicine free
for his wife and children up to 14 years of age, free also.
8. —All medicines ordered by Company’s Doctors obtained
free from Company’s Chemist.
Subscriptions.— Entrance Fee, 3s. Subscriptions, 2s. 6d. per month, or £1 Is. per annum, payable in
advance. If married and require the doctor for wife and children, Is. (id. per month extra.
MEDICAL REFORM.
/
// X?
'/e &.tcy l tV
/?Q).
c ,/'■ fa *
/e? 7 A
7'
fJTtiERK exists a crying need for
the medical profession to stay
the quackery which is so rampant
in these colonies. Men having no
medical qualifications nor aptitude
for the treatment of diseases, still
advertise with impunity as doctors;
and guarantee to do what they know
they are incapable of doing, and
thus deceive the public who are
caught by their specious and lying
advertisements, as is amply testified
by reading the exposures in the
Daily Telegraph from August 3
to 11, 1887.
A chief cause of this state of things
is that medical men from mistaken
notions of professional decorum,
and because they consider it infra
dig, refrain from entering the field
against theseiquacks. So long as this prudery exists so long will this canker consume our youth. At the ris.k, how-
ever, of professional opprobrium 1 have decided to throw aside this false delicacy, and avow my sympathy with, and
readiness to treat such affections, in the hope of saving the young of both sexes from the ruin of health and mind
which consulting these quacks ensures, not to mention the ruin of their pockets.
A patient writes to me : “I am in such a miserable state I would pay you what I could afford for a lifetime, it
you could possibly be the means of letting me know what health is, and perhaps saving me from suicide which seems
to be my only release if this appeal fails. Kindly and humanely do not allow it to he in vain, and you will never regret
it- I have been victimised by a person calling himself a ‘ doctor.’ My father (of course I did not let him know the
nature of ray ailment) paid this person £7 75., all for nothing, for which he said he would guarantee a cure in three
months.” Now, if qualified medical men would advertise in such a way as to bring their names before these sufferers,
and convince them of their sympathy, cases like the above which unfortunately are of daily occurrence, would not
occur: groundless fears would not be excited, and where disease exists it would be safely and permanently cured. I
am a legally and highly qualified practitioner, and have for over 20 years devoted especial study to chronic, nervous
and special diseases of men and women, and I am therefore justified in guaranteeing a cure in all cases amenable to
treatment.
Sufferers from impaired vitality, or nervousness, should read my book on “Nervous Debility,” free by post foi-
ls., where,they will find much useful information and directions, for self-cure. Those wishing a farther insight, should
read my work on the “ Male Generative Function in Health and Disease,” free by post for 2s. (id,
Consultation by Letter ... £l.
Dr. ALE X 7 PATERSON,
AM., M.D., F.R.C.S., En., M.R.C.S., KSn.,
157 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDKTEY.
Crispi may soon lose the Italian Premier-
ship. This is a most unprincipled renegade, the
Italian Graham Berry. As a young man Ire
fought under Garibaldi. Then he went into Par-
liament, as a desperate Radical. He could not
get any office, because he disgracefully turned off
his wife, and lived with another woman. This
scandal echoed throughout Italy, Madame Crispi
having rendered great services to her husband, in
the critical times. However, the clearing off of
Ricasoli, Rattazzi, Minghetta, and Hepretis
opened the way for Crispi. His policy appears
insane—enmity to France, friendship with Aus-
tria and Germany,
Miscellaneous.
NOTICE.
AN A WINDY DAY,
U By the Author of “ Her Own Sister,” &e.,
Is continued in
TiAMIL Y HERALD PART for FEBRUARY,
-T which contains also the continuation of
SLANDERED MEMORY,
{ NEW NOVEL,
Jx BytheAuthorof “Theßailiff’sDaughter, ! '&c.
Also, complete Stories, Essays, Answers to
Correspondents, Cookery, Miscellanea, Enigmas,
Charades, Riddles, &c.
TjIAMILY HERALD PART for FEBRUARY.
i: The Australasian says
“This favourite domestic magazine retains all
its old interest and variety.”
The
T 1 AMPLY HERALD may be had in Half-yearly
P Volumes and in Monthly Parts of all Colonial
Booksellers and Newsagents; or the Monthly Part
direct from W. Stevens, 421 Strand, London,
England, for 14s. per annum, post free.
London: W. Stevens, 421 Strand; and at all
Newsvendors.
NOW ACKNOWLEDGED
THE BEST
IN THE MARKET
t
WHISKY
| M.W.iCS
SOLD
EVERYWHERE
3E50 csli of IST atu,re.
ď
lEEEcscslsl cf 3Kra.-t-ci.ire.
BOOK OF NATURE and Illustrated Matri-
monial Guide. —A full and explicit explanation
of the structure and uses of the organs of life and genera-
tion in man and woman, intended especially for the
married, or those intending to marry, and \\ho conscien-
tiously and honestly desire to inform themselves upon the
intent and nature of marriage and its duties, to which is
added a complete MEDICAL TREATISE upon all diseases
of the generative organs, whether resulting from infection
or sexual excesses and abuse, with much other valuable
and highly important information, illustrated with more
than fifty engravings, by M. Lafayette Byrn, M.D. ; price
3/6, post 4/-. The Fruits of Philosophy or Private Com-
panion for Married People, post 1/2. Mrs. Besant’s Law of
Population, 1/-, post 1/2. Wonderful Song Book, eKtra
large, 1/6. Aristotle, complete, 3/6, post 4/-. Maria Monk,
1/6, post 1/0. New complete Fortune Teller, 2s. “The
Matron's Manual or Midwifery,” the hook every married
woman needs; price 7/-, posted 7/6. “The Male Genera-
tive Organs,” their use and abuse, with many illustrations
and coloured plates ; price 7/-, posted 7/6, The arts of
Boxing, Swimming and Gymnastics made easy, enabling
anyone to become an expert boxer or athlete, illustrated
with fifty engravings ; pri?o 1/-. “ Marriage as it was, as
it is, and as it should be,” by Mrs. Besant; 1/
/-, posted 1/2
Dr Foote’s Plain Home Talk, new edition, over 200 illu-
strations; 7/6, post free “The Labour Movement in
America,” by Aveling, post free 1/0. Matrimony, or
Phrenology and Physiology applied to the selection of
Congenial Companions for Life, 6d. The Elements of
Social Science ; 3/6, posted 4 - Nigger Songs, 6d. Henry
George’s Works all at 1/-, posted 1/4. Works of Ingersoll,
Paine, Bradlaugh, Besant, Foote. Send for catalogue.
SIZE?. EOBEET ZEBZE-A-IK.,
Radical Book Stokrs,
16PARK STREET. SYDNEY-
THE SYDNEY CATERING COMPANY, LTD
* t
(Late Gunsler’s Cafe)
XT E 5 T 3 ll r. street,
WISH their former Patrons and the Public Generally to. kn.o>v that their Saloons have
their new cusine a trial.
® Sr d i'JL -e y,
been Emiukly H kohoanised, ami shall ho glad if they will give
JAMES 0 MARQUAND, Manager *


“The leading Packet Tea in New South Wales
is the Famous Billy Tea. Its consumption is
at least double that of any othex brand in the
market.”
PACKED ONLY BY
James Ixxglis & Co.,
4 & 6 Dean’s Place, SYDNEY.
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
Photography.—Charlemont and Co. (vice-regal
photographers), in the Royal Arcade, beg to an-
nounce that they have now reduced the price of
their Cabinet Photographs to One Guinea per doz.
any style—bust, vignette or three-quarter figure.
Messrs. Charlemont feel assured that this reduc-
tion in price will meet the many who refrained
from sitting in their studio, solely on account of
the price hitherto being higher than they might
care to pay. Grosvenor Galleries, Royal Arcade.
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
Medical
\\
NT
W\l
\
c
cr
Wf
A Skin Without Blemish
Everywhere a network of sudorific ducts, veins,
and pores, the skin constantly renews itself, and
not only with its ceaseless desquamation, but with
its natural functional action, eliminates all waste,
accumulation and disease. Hence, a skin without
blemish means more than beauty; it means health.
Cuticuba, the great skin cure, and Cuticuba
Soap, an exquiste skin beantifier, prepared from
it, externally, and Cuticuba Resolvent, the new
blood purifier, internally, cure every species of tor-
turing, disfiguring, itching, scaly and pimply
diseases of the skin, scalp and blood, with loss
of hair, from pimples to scrofula.
I have been afflicted for a great many years with
bad blood, which has caused me to have sores on
my body. My hands were in a solid sore for over
a year. I had tried almost everything I could hear
of, but had given up all hopes of ever being cured,
when I saw the advertisement of the Cuticuba
Remedies. I used one box of Cuticuba, one
bottle of Resolvent, and one cake of Soap, and
am now able to do all my own work.
Mbs. FANNIE STEWART, Staunton, Ind.
Sold everywhere. Price, Cuticuba, 50c.; Soap,
25c.; Resolvent, $l. Prepared by the Potteb
Deuo and Chemical Co., Boston, Mass.
13®= Send for “ How to Cure Skin Diseases,” 64
pages, 00 illustrations, and 100 testimonials.
đ
Skin, scalp and hair preserved and beau-
tified by the use of Cuticura Soap.
I have suffered all my life with skin diseases of
different kinds, and have never found permanent
relief, until, by the advice of a lady friend, I used
your valuable Cuticuba Remedies. I gave them
a thorough trial, using six bottles of the Cuticuba
Resolvent, two boxes of Cuticdra, and seven
cakes of Cuticuba Soap, and the result was just
what I had been told it would be a complete cure
BELLE WADE, Richmond, Va.
Reference, G.W. Latimer, Druggist, Richmond,Va.
Have just used your Cuticuba Remedies on
one of my girls, and found it to be just what it is
recommended to be. My daughter was all broken
out on her head and body, and the hair commenced
to come out. Now she is as smooth as ever she
was, and she has only used one box of Cuticuba,
one cake of Cuticuba Soap, and one bottle of
Cuticuba Resolvent. I doctored with quite a
number of doctors, but to no avail. lam willing
to make affidavit to the truth of the statement.
GEORGE EAST, Macon, Mich.
For the last year I have had a species of itching,
scaly and pimply humors on my face to which I
have applied a great many methods of treatment
without success, and which was speedily and en-
tirely cured by the Cuticuba Remedies.
Mrs. ISAAC PHELPS, Ravenna, O.
p;m
1 PEES, blackheads, red, rough, chapped and
| oily skin prevented by Cuticura Soap.
Address: R. TOWNS & CO., SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Great Medical Reform!
Consult (FREE) HERE EASSMUSSEN, the Celebrated Danish Herbalist,
Expert Specialist in all Private Complaints, Barrenness and Nervous Diseases.
$
DENMARK
&A(i JY
%
\r-
%
\
%
%
A
%\
t
%
I
%
s
T
0
R
E
s
L
0
s
Y
V
i
f
a
L
1
f
Vi
xjinoß
'fl t
0
B# 1 *
pt
I#
0^
#
r
*.
#
(0
d
HEST0RES'
ITALITY
A Guaranteed Cure
for
Nervous Debility and
Lost Vitality.
225. (id. per Course.
Smaller Box fis. rd.
Only Herbalist in Australia
Thai has received “Gold Medal” for Great Cures Performed, and is Honourably Mentioned in the “Centennial History of New South Wales ”
for Great Herbal Discoveries; and who can prove that he has CURED OVER 20,000 PATIENTS.
DENMARK
Sole Proprietor and Discoverer of the Celebrated
VITALITY PILLS,
Registered,
Which have been the means of Curing so many Thousands of Sufferers from Nervous Debility, Lost Vitality, Errors, Weakness, Despondency,
Impure Blood. 225. 6d. per Course ; Smaller Box, ss. 6d.
G-eziuixie Testimonials.
To HERR RASSMUSSEN.
Dear Sir,—This is to certify that you cured me of a very serious blood
disease, after many doctors had failed. —JOHN REYNOLDS, Chappel-
street, Leichhardt, Sydney.
To HERR RASSMUSSEN, the celebrated Danish Herbalist.
Dear Benefactor, —
I have much pleasure to inform the public that you cured my wife of
an internal complaint of a very serious nature, after all the doctors had
iven her up.—ARCHIBALD MACEARLANE, Eden Cottage,
iarney-street, Armidale.
To HERR RASSMUSSEN, Specialist in Nervous Diseases.
Dear Sir,—l hereby thank you for the great cure you performed on
me for a very complicated nervous affection, and I shall always recom-
mend you to sufferers from Nervous Debility.—PHlLLlP STB AD,
54 Parramatta-road, Annandale, Sydney.
To HERR RASSMUSSEN, Danish Herbalist.
Dear Sir and Benefactor,—lt gives me great plea ure to testify
to your wonderful skill in the treatment of Disease. You cured me of a
terrible complaint after the doctors gave me up, and although it is four
years since, lam as well as ever. I shall recommend you to al l .—Yours,
gratefully, A. RAMSDEN, Great Wt stern Coffee Palace, Castlereagh-
street, Sydney.
To HERR RASSMUSSEN, Specialist in Nervous Diseases.
Dear Sir,—l hereby certify that I have been under your skilful
treatnent for a very obstinate ca-e of nervous debility, and that you
cured me with one course of your Vitality Pills.—l). M'NEILL,
Hornsby Junction, N.S.W.
Opinions of tlie Press.
It is a well-known fact that HERR RASSMUSSEN, the Cele-
brated Danish Herbalist, has performed many great cures during the
past few years, as his numerous testimonials will prove.
—Sydney Bulletin.
HERR RASSMUSSEN. —We have been shown some excellent
Testimonials of the great cures performed by Herr Rassmussen, the
celebrated Danish Herbalist. — Australian Star.
HERR RASSMUSSEN has now been established in the colonies
for 10 years.—Sunday Times, April 28, 1888.
HERR RASSMUSSEN has become a celebrity in the curing of all
diseases of the nervous system. His name has become a wonder through-
out the Southern Hemisphere. He was presented with a Gold Medal for
some of his miraculous cures. Balmain Leader, May 12, 1888.
HERR RASSMUSSEN. — The remarkable cures which he has
effected are pretty generally known. —Balmain Observer, April, 28, 1888.
We are perpetually receiving letters from HERR RASSMUSSEN’S
cured patients requesting us to make known to the public the wonderful
medical skill this remarkable man possesses, and he has just been pre-
sented with a gold medal from several of his cured patients.
—Sydney Weekly News, May 26, 1887.
HERR RASSMUSSEN’S HERBAL REMEDIES
( Registered )
DENMARK VITALITY PlLLS.—Guaranteed to cure nervous debility. Lost
Vitality, Errors of Youth and Despondency. Price, 225. 6d. per full course ; small
box, ss. (id.
DENMARK FEMALE RESTORER PlLLS.—Guaranteed to cure all complaints
peculiar to Females, Irregularities, and eradicates complaints which cause barren-
ness. Price, 225. fid. per course , small box, ss. 6d.
LOCK CURE 'PlLLS.—Guaranteed to Cure all diseases of the blood, discharges,
sores, and strictures. Price, 225. Cd. per course, small box, ss. 6d.
free,
CONSULTATION AND ADVICE FREE.
\ll the above remedies are made of PURE HERBS, and are forwarded unobserved. A valuable treatise on Nervous Debility, Private Complaints, and Barrenness, sent
on receipt of 4d stamped addressed envelope. Consultation personally or by post, free. Patients are examined with the aid of the Microscope.
Address • - Herr EASSMUSSEN the Danish Herbalist,
Corner GordLon-atreot & Park-road, Padtilngton, Sydney.
TRAMS —Take Paddington Tram to Elizabeth-street, Paddimrton.
_? DENMARK.
%
\
A
%
%
%
%
1,
I
%
%
<r -
%
%
ď
đ
H
E
s
T
0
R
I
s
s
I
V
1
1
i
I
f
V
MlOflfi
ii
0
4*
0"
d
#
0
■oi
mmm
Restores
JT4MTY
A Guaranteed Cure
for
Nervous Debility and
Lost Vitality.
225. (id. per Course.
Smaller Box ss. (id.
We begin to lose faith in women-doctors
when one writes a prescription in this style :
T> Soda salioyl 2 yds.
Aquafortis .. .. 1 roll.
Cut square and sew with hemstitch three times a day.
—Ex.
A London landlord has been fined for
letting places unfit for human habitation. The
wretch got 2s. 6d. weekly for a cellar occupied by
three full-grown persons and several babies. It
had no yard, and was 9ft. lin. long, 7ft. Tin. wide,
and 6ft. Sin. high. It was infested with rats,
“ which even gnawed the stockings of the occu-
pants. ”
The Pope’s “ Pence ” for 1889 has fallen
from £126,000 for the previous year to £120,000.
Austria sent £16,000; Spain, £8000; France,
£12,800; Germany, £7200; Ireland, £6000; Eng-
land, £3BOO ; Belgium, £6200 ; Switzerland, £2200 ;
Poland, £3408; North America, £7400; South
America, £12,400; Africa, £3800; sia, £4000;
lioumauia, £4000; Italy, £14,200; Portugal,
£6OOO. Other sums, making up £4OOO, were col-
lected in Australia, Oceania, Russia, Sweeden,
Norway, &o. “ Jack ” Haynes is said to beat the
bottom of the fall.
The Tichborne case is to be revived again.
The lawyers are ripe for another swallow. How
much went into their maws the last time ?
A quarter of a million? The fat liar of Wagga
has managed, he says, to get backers to the tune
of £150,000. We always like to read about these
godly Lord Chancellors, Cairns, Hatherley, and
Selborne, who all taught in Sunday-school, and
each mopped up about £20,000 a year out of the
Law. Of such is the kingdom of Heaven. Ballan-
tine was a wicked man. He gave up the Tichborne
defence to Kenealy out of conscience—so they say.
What are the badges of a Christian young
man ? The secretary of a London Young Women’s
Christian Association lately declared :
“ I have never kuown’a Christian young woman to wear
a fringe, or a Christian young man to part his hair in the
middle.” “How do these people,” asks Dagonet, “ keep
out of idiot asylums so long ? Christ always parted His
hair in the middle. But then Christ was not a ‘ Christian
foung Man 1 ”
Having read all this, The Bulletin wants to
know the bearings of the shaved upper-lip upon
true religion.
Old-fashioned Jewellery modernised to perfection. De-
signs free. Dahms and Co., King-street Arcade.
Building Sites, City of Perth, W.A. Plans
Intercolonial Investment Co., Limited, 96 Bathurst-
street, Sydney.
Dear Bulletin, —I see an (extracted) paragraph
in a recent Bulletin re the shooting of Graham in t)iu ens-
land, some four years ago, which is not quite correct. I
well remember the occurrence. I was at the_ time mining
at Mount Browne, and had just been bitten myself
through ignorance, for I didn’t then know silver pre when
I saw it. The report reached Mount Browne of the
enormously rich silver And near Lake Pimposa, in the
open country to the West of the Packsaddle station.
Graham had a lode or rather dozens of lodes with only a
trace of silver in them. The station people knew' of
these lodes long before but were not aware of
their value or otherwise. Graham told them he
was a silver-miner from Broken Hill who had
just sold out for £lO,OOO, and they believed him.
They drove him out in a buggy some twenty-five miles
west from the station. Graham immediately recog-
nised silver ore in what they showed him. They took
samples into the station and Graham started assaying
them in the usual rough bush way, with an old nail-can.
He also showed them how to assay—in a style calculated
to make them all deceive themselves. He worked the
first part of the swindle admirably. He did not give them
great returns at first, but got them to send two miners
out with plant to sink upon the lode. I may here
state that the lodes were running rather flat. The
second shaft cut the lode at about twenty-feet—ore
much better, but it w'as in the third and last
shaft that the extraordinarily rich stuff was dis-
covered. Graham sold out some part of his interest to
a squatter named Geyer and then “cleared,” but not
before he had marked out the township and made
arrangements for sinking a tank to supply the furnaces
with water. He bought a pair of horses either at Cobham
Lake or Milparinka, and then got on the spree, calling at
the Granite (now “ Tibboburra ”) and setting up cham-
pagne for all hands. He then went to Thargomindah and
got on the spree again at that place. A policeman here
tried to arrest him, at whom he presented an old-fashioned
revolver quite out of order that would not go off. He
got away from the policeman and walked along the main
Hungerford-road. Your correspondent’s account of
his capture by the police and tracker is all bunkum.
I like to see people get honour where it is
due, but in this case there was no credit due to either
blackfellow or white man. They never saw his track, or,
if they did, they did not know it. The tracking donedn
this instance was from information received. A man “in
the horrors’’—this was the state Graham was in when he
was shot. He was travelling with some cattle-drovers,
camping with them at night and walking along in the
day-time. One night a policeman, Geyer (the squatter),
with a blackfellow from Milparinka, also another named
Tiger from Thargomindah, called at a station and
informed the manager and station hands of their
business. Next morning a boundary-rider went to
see the cattle through the run, and, recognis-
ing Graham by the description given, galloped
back to the station and returned with the police, whdrii
he showed the spot he saw Graham an hour or so before.
The blacks then tracked him up and came upon him half-
a-mile from where the boundary-rider had met him. He
w'as sitting at the root of a tree reading a book. He was
called upon to surrender, but instead of doing so he pro-
duced his toy revolver and snapped it twice at the trooper
without discharging it. The trooper shot him through the
back of the head. Yours, etc., A Mount Browne Miner.—
P.S. —The shooting of Graham caused considerable local
excitement at the time. Everyone was indignant about
it, and had it happened anywhere but in the remote back
country there would have been a very different aspect
placed upon the affair. Five men armed to the teeth and
on horseback in open country could not capture a man,
weak and emaciated, without shooting him.
[lf, as stated, Graham couldn’t possibly escape,
it was a sin to shoot him. The moral of the affair
appears to be the old one —the man who produces
a pistol usually signs his own death-warrant unless
he shoots at once and shoots straight.— Ed. B.]
NOT A CHRISTIAN YOUNG MAN.
He always was good to his ma and his dad,
And he played Sankey’s hymns on the fiddle ;
He looked on the Stage as the road to the bad—
But he parted his hair in the middle.
He never was known to descend to untruth,
And no man of a copper he’d diddle.
In ail things he was a respectable youth—
But he parted his hair in the middle.
When a victim to praying and fasting as well
He gave up life’s difficult riddle,
Old Charon remarked, as he labelled him “Hell,”
“ He parted his hair in the middle.”


Business Announcements.
—THE-
Fresh Food & |ce Co.,
LIMITED,
HARBOUR STREET,
SYDNEY,
Are evidently determined to go ahead They are
now supplying Customers who take a Quabt of
Milk and Over per Day at
THREEPENCE PER QUART!
This appears very wonderful, but it is
quite true.
jWeekly Accounts.
A. BOWMAN’S
LONDON MADE
Porpoise Hide Boots
Are Reduced from 30s. to 21s.
249 PITT ST., SYDNEY, Near Tattersall’s.
Porpoise Hide Wearj Twice as Long
as any other Leather.
They_ are noted all oyer
Birmingham and Liverpool.
LondoEL fashions,
AND
Fresh Goods Every Fortnight.
Trade Supplied Wholesale at a Great Advantage,
PLOUGH-SHARES.
otmm pI:M'SMEs,
IN EQUITY.
Hornsby v. Hudson.
—** —
]ST OTIC H
TO THE
toiij Community of New South Wes,
HUDSON BROS., Ltd.,
Are still making the Shares which formed
the subject of this great lawsuit. They
ire now branded
DEE
and their quality is better than ever.
HUo
Farmers desirous of encouraging Colonial
can obtain these Shaies from our
Local Agent.
NOTE—Trial samples free of cost.
F HOT and COLD N
Seawater Baths,
Wakknambool, Victoria.
HYGIENIC, CURATIVE.
CURKS
SCIATICA, RHEUMATISM,
Nervous & Skin Diseases.
Testimonials from ajl parts of the
Colonies.
Water direct from Southern Ocean
pumped by gas motor, retaining all
natural qualities; tree from objec-
tions ot Bay water. Large swim-
ming basins for ladies and gentle-
men, Marble plunge baths, band
eomeJy appointed. Bracing air,
charming scenery, fishing, shooting,
beautiful drives place Warrnambodl
i in the front rank as a sanatorium. ,
notwithstanding
What other Produce Dealers may say, our
Prime Oaten Clxaff
At 4s. 6d. per Cwt. (Bags in),
is THE
best 'vjlltjie
Ever Offered.
City Produce Company, Hay-st„ Haymarket.
BTB AM CHAFF-CUTTERS.
Pat.lr H RIDGE Family Hotel,
Falls Bridge, Melbourne.
This magnificent Hotel, containing 50 Double
and Single Rooms, is splendidly furnished and
perfectly ventilated.
Hot and Cold Plunge and Shower Baths.
Electric B«Us. Telephone 1217. Billiards, <kc.
Term* Strictly Moderate.
J. H, DU UR ANT Manager.
Late of the South Australian Club Hotel, Adelaide.
Business Announcements,
CHERTS
□
A
kits
RON”
*
Z.^l
a
r-j
tr: i
4 4-
tSPmi
ROBERTS & 0 0.,
WHOLESALE—
Ironmongers* Importers* Iron and Machinery Merchants*
HAY AND ENGINE STREETS SYDNEY,
Head Office: 83 Gracechurch Street, London, E.O.
IMPORTERS OF
Railway & Bridge Contractors'
Plumbers'
Squatters’
Requirements
IN
Great Variety
IMPORTERS OF
Engineers' arfS Blacksmiths'
Conchbuilders'
Mining
AGENTS FOR:
Korting’s Gas Engines— The best and cheapest yet made. Automatic self-governing, thus saving cost of gas.
Braddock’s Water and Gas Meters and Gas Lamps. Reading Iron Works Universal (Split) Pulley Wheels.
Howe’s Platform and Counter Weighing Machines and Weighbridges.
MAUXHi
TrhocinMV**!;
0.
'r
0
Guinness’ Extra Stout,
FIRST QUALITY.
Bass Pale A le,
FIRST QUALITY.
Sole Pueveyoes to the
Colonial & Indian Exhibition,
London,
(By Special Appointment).
Wholesale Agents Balchin, Johnston & Co., Sydney.
M. B. FOSTER & SONS, LONDON,
“BUGLE” ALE STOUT.
)(
PUBLIC NOTICE.
It having come to our knowledge that ALE and STOUT of very inferior quality, in bottles with
skillfully forged labels have lately been palmed cff on the public . . .
We desire to warn our friends of the fact, and to state that all corks as well as capsules of the
bottles shipped by Messrs. M. B. FOSTER & SONS to this colony bear their name and address.
Any inhumation respecting Bottled Beer purporting to be “Foster’s Bugle Brand ’ offered
for sale without these corks and capsules will be esteemed by the undersigned, who have instruc-
tions to bring to justice the perpetrab rs of the frauds.
A Liberal Reward will be given for information leading to conviction of the offenders.
)(
BALCHIN, JOHNSTON & CO., Sydney,
Agents for Messrs. M. B. Foster & Sons.
/y air for Kupper’a Blberfeld. Lager lE3eer
(Specially Brewed for Australia). Absolutely Free from Sediment.
THE
Wolseley Sheep-Shearing* Machine.
PASTORALISTS are notified that, to avoid disappointment,
no time should be lost in Booking Orders for next Season.
Agents: J. H. GEDDES & C 0.,
19 PHILLIP STREET, SYDNEY.
‘T
EVERY
DESCRIPTION
o r
HAIR WORK DONE
%
a
1C
*
%
a
%
iT
V
;¥
38*
Si
9*
99
JV
<5
5C
PRIVATE
ROOMS
FDR LADIES
'22*24
ROYAL ARCADE'
MELBOURNE
Cities’ Life Assurance Company,
LIMITED.
Capital ... ... £200,000.
Head Office:
21 Castlereagh St, Sydney,
With Branches and Agencies throughout the Colonies.
KTew I3va.slrA.c2S3 :
18H7 There were issued 1!>,557 Policies.
ISHH „ „ „ „
IHH<» „ „ „ &I,3Ti „
These figures show the wonderful progress of the
Company and the high esteem placed upon its
liberal dealings by the public.
CLAIMS RAID
Immediately on Proof of Death
JAMES P. QARVAN,
WM. ALEX. SMITH,
Managing Director.
Secretary.
Medical.
ARE YOU NERVOUS?
IF SO,
DON’T MISS THIS!
What everyone says is bound to be true, and young
and old, rich and poor, physicians who recommend, and
patients who try
The Krupp Galvanic Chain Belt,
AK agree in praising that most scientific of Electro
Therapeutical Appliances. For Rheumatism it is un-
rivalled. Lumbago at once succumbs to its power. The
Nervous are strengthened and the Debilitated restored to
perfect health and vigour. In short, the appliance is an
unfailing cure for all Nervous, Sexual, or Chronic Diseases,
and is GUARANTEED to ABSOLUTELY CURE, com-
pletely and lastingly, the following complaints: —
Dyspepsia, Neuralgia, Pains in the Back and Chest,
Lumbago, Catarrh, Rheumatism, Dumb Ague,
Nervous Debility, Paralysis, Kidney Complaint,
Spinal Disease, Female Weakness, Diseases of the
Liver, Impotence, Seminal Weakness, Diabetes,
Sciatica, Atrophy, Gout, Indigestion, Asthma, Piles,
Epilepsy Spermatorrhoea, Specks before the Eyes,
Excessive Heart Palpitation, Defective Memory.
An I n Dill ink Cure For Varicocele.
It is a PORTABLE BODY BATTERY, and contains
special appliances for both sexes ; therefore, why waste
your money and health by procuring and taking USELESS
DRUGS ? Electricity, when properly applied, is acknow-
ledged by all leading and unprejudiced physicians to be
the only safe and radical cure for Nervous and Sexual
Diseases, and the thousands of testimonials received by
the Krupp Belt Co. from leading personages throughout
Australasia prove the un quest enable curative properties
of Electricity as applied by the appliance above referred to.
Our confidence in this appliance is so complete, that
we send the Belt out on trial, and guarantee it
to give perfect satisfaction. For full particulars as to
terms, etc., send for our large illustrated treatise, free,
in which these Belts are fully illustrated, the action of
electricity on the nervous system explained, and a lot of
useful information on nervous and sexual diseases given.
This treatise also contains facsimile of testimonials received
from some of our clients who have tried our Belts. The
originals of these testimonials produced on application.
J3F"' The prices of the Krupp Galvanic Chain Belt and
Suspensory are from £l.
Sole Inventor Carl Krltr.
Business Manager . . A. W. Courtney.
Address all communications to the
Krupp Galvanic Chain Belt Co.,
Box 647, G.P.0., Sydney, N.S.W.
Remember—The K.G. Chain Belt cures without medicine,
is easy to wear, is sent on approval, and the first cost is
the only cost.
M 0 U SO NS
*; '
'
Cocoa Butter Soap is a real skin-beaulifier, and a balm to
young" and old alike.
MOUSON & CO., PKIIFUMKIIS & TOII.KT SOAP MANL'PACTL"HERS,
PK AN K KOHT-ON-TIIE- ,M AIN K.
LONDON! 32 & 33 11AM9KLLST., B.C. PARIS: 29 RUE KAH/.IWILL.
Full guarantee for peif ct purity is offered by the
sole Manufacturers, Mouson & Co.
JULIUS GOLDSCHMIDT & CO.,
231 OLARENCE-ST., SYDNEY,
SOLE aGENTS FOR AUSTRALASIA.
v-
G
LOTA
MflM
3o
EST
rpHIS valuable Lotion is guaranteed to cure SWELLING
-*- and SANDY BLIGHT, INFLAMED EYES and LIDS,
DIMNESS OF SIGHT, &o. It will be found very bene-
ficial and cooling to those who have weak eyes, or whose
work compels them to strain their eyes. Highly
recommended by the leading Oculists.
Manufactured only by the Proprietor,
H. J*.. iFLOSIE
Dispensing and Manufacturing Chemist,
531 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Wholesale by the Proprietor a,nd all Wholesale Houses.
Established ISSS. By Bust Ss. Cd.
Kgp” Manufacturer of Dr. SOUTHAN’S GOUT and
RHEUMATIC PILLS.
D. C. L.
VERY = OLD = SPECIAL
SCOTCH = WHISKY.
DISTILLERIES CO. (Limited).
XMOMA.S M‘CR EERY:
MEDICAL HERBALIST,
83 Oxford Street, i doors above Riley Street.
Private Diseases of Both Sexes a Speciality.
Consultations Gratis. Charges very Moderate.
'A Trial Solicited.
A SPEEDY CURE GUARANTEED;
»)./1
ows
R
EMBROCATION
/.Or-Ve
t v
I n .SOLO / ,
V £v ery v where(v
ď


Medical.
mm
\\y
rei
EUREKA
■A.
ELECTRIC
BELTrt 1
N. c - "V w V
NK -VV;
<Si\
--\s7-5^
/rNT
A NEVER FAILING- CURE FOR ALL.
DISEASES OF THE NERVOUS SYSTEM!.
Complete with Suspensory Appliances from £l. 0. 0 and
upwards. This famous Electric Magnetic Belt will cure
NERVOUS DEBILITV. Seminal Debility, Impotence,
and all weakness caused by indiscretion. Pains in the
Back, Lumbago, Giddiness, Rheumatism, Kidney and
Bladder complaints, and in fact any disease of the Nervous
System. The currents are steady and constantly felt by
the wearer. It has great improvements over all other
belts, we are willing to furnish those belts on 30 days
trial, and accept payment after they have proved them-
selves what we represent them to be. _ Those belts are
made for the specific purpose of producing a continuous,
mild, soothing current of electricity through all the weak-
ened parts, restoring them to health and vigorous strength,
even the worst case permanently cured in three months.
It is more convenient to wear than any other Belt.
A Book illustrated, containing full information and testi-
monials from prominent people throughout Australia,
and informing persons how they may obtain these belts
without paying for them until they have proved them com-
petent to cure any disease of the Nervous System, will be
forwarded to any address on receipt of a 2d stamp far
postage. U
Address:- VOLTAIC BELT COMPANY
Box 916, G. P. 0., Sydney.
Dr. James B. Llewellyn,
(registered)
SPECIALIST in
GENITO-URINABY DISEASES,
May be CONSULTED at
“3 25 LONSDALE STREET-
(between Swanston & Elizabeth Sts.J,
MELBOURME.
tS’ Consulting Hours—lo to 2; 7to 9. Sunday
Mornings, 10 to 11.
All Personal Consultations are free; by letter the
Fee is £l, which is inclusive of medicines.
* 1801
smS I
,/SWB
' ■
m
FO
An elegant dress-
ing. exquisitely per
fumed removes all
impurities from the
scalp, prevenis baldness and gray hair, and
causes the hair 10 grow Thick, ,Soft and
Beautiful, Infallible for curing eruptions
of the skin, diseases of the glands, muscles
and integuments, and relieving cuts, burns,
bruises, sprains, &c.
Barry’s Pearl Cream
Imparts to the darkest skin a clear, natural
white, tinged with the faintest rose-blush
It speedily removes wrinkles, freckles, sun
burn and tan, and mantles the faded cheek
with youthful bloom and 'beauty.,
Barry’s Hair Dy©.
Put up in two forms, witji and without
n preparation Without the preparation.
f radually colors the hair any shade desired,
rom a light brown to a black With the
preparation, instantly colors the hair a na-
tural jet black the moment it is applied.
CrtMWon-None of these preparations gen-
uine without the trade mark of Barcuat
& Go , New York, affixed t© eapb bottle
i'~fr A BLESSING IN EVERY
HOLLOWAY’S PILLS AND OINTMENT.
There is not a country in the civilised world where
the healing virtues of thes a grand medicines have not been
recognised by thousands of sufferers. In all the ordinary
ailments of humanity their beneficent action is at once
recognised. Fullest directions are supplied for their use
in every disease. IF YOU SUFFER, TRY THEM. Manu-
factured only at 76 Nhw Oxford-st., London. Pur-
chasers should look to the Label on the Boxes and Pots'
If the address is not 523 Oxford-street, London, they are
spurious.
LOONG SHAN TEA HOUSE
NOW OPEN.
Quong Tart & Co.’s
EXTENSIVE NEW PREMISES
(Nearly opposite Theatre Koval).
FIRST-CLASS OKI LLS,
a
u
o
N
G
T
A
R
T
&
G
O
M
P
A
N
Y
As well as all kinds of Refreshments, may
be obtained from 7.30 a.m. to 11.30 p.m.
CUP OF DELICIOUS TEA.
ICED DRINKS OF ALL KINDS, &c.
The rooms are splendidly furnished and
fitted up. In addition to the large and
well - appointed Refreshment Rooms,
gentlemen will find on the Second Floor
Commodious and Comfortable Smoking
and Conversation Rooms, furnished with
Chess, Draughts, &c., &c.
TO THE LAMES,
On the First Floor will be found Nice
Private Room for Ladies, convenient for
Writing, Reading, &e._, also Retiring
Rooms and Lavatory, with both hot and
cold water laid on. inspection Invited.
Q
U
o
N
G
T
A
R
T
&
C
O
M
P
A
N
Y
Finest Teas imported—Packets Alb. and
upwards supplied. Orders promptly at-
tended to.
137 KING STREET, SYDNEY,
Medical. >
A WONDERFUL MEDICINE.
Beecliam’s Pills
C r U
V
•a<
PATENT
Are universally admitted
to be worth a Guinea
a Box for bilious
and nervous disorders,
such as wind and pain in
the stomach, sick head-
ache, giddiness, fulness
and swelling' after meals,
dizziness, and drowsiness,
cold chills, flushings of
heat, loss of appetite,
shortness of breath, cos-
tiveness, scurvy, blotches
on the skin, disturbed
sleep, frightful dreams,
and all nervous and trem-
bling sensations, &c. The
first dose will give relief
in twenty minutes. Every
sufferer is earnestly invited to try one box of these
Bills, and they will be acknowledged to be
Worth a Guinea a Box.
For females of all ages these Pills are invaluable,
as_ a few closes of them carry olf all humors, and
bring about all that is required. No female should
be without them. There is no medicine to be found
equal to BEECHAM'S PILLS for removing any
obstruction or irregularity of the system. If taken ac-
cording to the directions given with eanh box they will
soon restore females of all ages to sound and robust
health. This has been proved by thousands who have
tried them, and found the benefits which are ensured by
their use.
For a weak stomach, impaired digestion and all disorders
of the liver, they act like “ MAGIC,” and a few doses will
be found to work wonders upon the most important
organs in the human machine. They strengthen the
whole muscular system, restore the long-lost complexion,
bring back the keen edge of appetite, and arouse into ac-
tion with the ROSEBUD of health the whole physical
energy of the human frame. These are “FACTS” testified
continually by members of all classes of society ; and
one of the best guarantees to the nervous and debilitated
is, Beecham’s Pills have the largest sale of any patent
medicine in the world.
Beecham’s Magic Cough Pills.
As a remedy for Coughs in general, Asthma, Bronchial
Affections, Hoarseness, Shortness of Breath, Tightness
and Oppression of the Chest, Wheezing, &0., these Pills
stand unrivalled. They are the best ever offered to the
public and w ill speedily remove that sense of oppression
and difficulty of breathing which _ nightly deprive the
patient of rest. Let any person give Beeciiam’s Cough
Pills a trial and the most violent Cough will in a
short time be removed.
Prepared only and sold wholesale and retail by the pro-
prietor, Thomas Beeeham, Chemist, St. Helens, Lancashire,
England, in boxes at Is. IJd. and 2s. 9d. each. —Sold by
all Druggists and Patent Medicine Dealers everywhere.
N.B.—Full directions are given with each box.
Prof. a. T.. SELBY
Is considered to be the most Successful Practi-
tioner in the Australian colonies. All sufferers
should read the Doctor’s most unique work on
Nervous, Private and other Diseases. The
Advice on Marriage is worth its weight in gold.
Send your full address, and we will send (post
free) One Copy. Write to Prof. R. T. SELBY,
Cleveland Street, Surry Hill, SYDNEY.
EPPS’S
GRATEFUL—COMFORTING-
COCOA.
Dr. westcott’s amenorrikea
PILLS for Ladies, when taken for a few
days before, quickly correct all irregularities
from whatever cause arising ; 2s. !)d. and 4s. 6d.,
by post 3s. and ss. W. H. SOUL and CO., 190
Pitt-strcet, Sydney, Agents.
Musical.
INGHAM’S
PATENT SCALE INSTRUCTOR
FOR Tire—
PIAUO^OETE.
PUPILS can obtain the above at once, and the best
way to illustrate its usefulness to them is to sup-
pose a man to live to be a hundred years old and never
to have seen a Piano, he would, with live minutes’
instruction, be able to play the most difficult Major and
Minor Scales on the instrument.
Miscellaneous.
P. 0. NICHOLES & Co.,
WHOLESALE
Confectioners k Pastrycooks,
City Buildings:
736 George Street, 736
HAYMAEKET.
Stic am Works :
617, 619, 621, 539, 541 HARRIS STREET.
Wedding Cakes, &c., Made to Order.
HOPE,
General Merchant & Commission Agent,
199 SUSSEX STREET, SYDNEY.
Cl CONSIGNMENTS of all Produck, Live Stock, etc.,
) received and realised in the best markets. Account
Sales and Proceeds remitted the day after sale. Orders
executed for all Goods from Sydney at Lowest Wholesale
Prices
Speciality. —Pure-bred and Pedigree Stock of all de-
scriptions Bouoiit or Sold on Commission. All communi-
cations referring to Pure-bred Poultry and Eggs for Setting
to be addressed as usual to WALTER HOPE, Bonnyrigg
Prize Poultry Farm, Liverpool, N.S.W.
SPECIAL NOTICE.—The Sydney Bulletin.
Tasmanian Edition Publishers, FITZ-
GERALD BROS. Subscription (payable strictly
in advance), Six Shillings and Sixpence per quar-
ter, or One Pound per annum.
The Bulletin will be on Sale every Friday at
the Oflioe, George Street, Launceston, or D’om the
Runners in the street.
Business Announcements.
Paid-up Capital £1,125,000
The Bank has Agents in all the principal cities
throughout the United States of America and
Canada, and can offer special facilities for dealing
in Bullion, Bills of Exchange, Commercial and
Travellers’ Let! ers of Credit.
Drafts issued and Bills collected on most favour-
able terms, at rates which can be ascertained on
application.
]ES.<eEa.<aL ! ! IFtesuca. !
History of Botany Bay,
liy Arthur Gay 11.
Profusely Illustrated by The Bulletin’s well-
known Artists,
L. HOPKINS and PHIL MAY.
Price - One Shilling
Per post, Is. 3d.
Victoria: A. Benjamin, 321 Little Cpllins-st., Melbourne
Melbourne : Gordon & Gotch.
Brisbane; J. H. Thompson, Bookseller, George-street.
Adelaide: Neville & Co.
Tasmanian: Fitzgerald Bros., George-street, Launceston.
I Sydney Branches:
64 PITT STREET, and 538 GEORGE STREET.
N. F. GIBLIN, Manager.
“THE BULLETIN’S
Wholesale Agents :
“What is Home without a Picture?”
Xj. BEEITASCOUI,
(Late R. Smith)
Elite Carver, Gilder, and Picture Frame Maker,
159 Clarence Street Only, SYDNEY
(near Central Coffee Palace).
Plush Work a Speciality. Mounts Cut to any Design.
B rittenberg & CO.
• IMPORTERS,
81 Clarence St., Wynyard Square.
Furniture, Mirrors, Oleographs, and Mouldings■
J. SITTERLI-N,
FROM TAR IS,
Ladies’ Hairdresser. Wigmaker, & Perfumer,
25 SYDNEY ARCADE, SYDNEY,
HISTORICAL AND FANCY HAIRDRESSING A
SPECIALTY.
Manufacturer of All Kinds of Theatrical
and Street Wigs.
Amiuoiiiatrd Quinine,
The most efficient Hair Lotion, to prevent prema-
ture baldness.
Sitterlin’s Vegetable Hair-dye,
The only Hair-dye in the colonies to restore Light
Hair to its natural colour. All shades. ■
Success Grirarantee H.
ft
MANUFACTURING HATTERS,
GEORGE STREET
SYDNEY
IMPORTERS OF ALLTHE
NE WEST SHAPES.
And at ALBERT STREET, BRISBANE.
I
đ
s
. & i
Wmf'Z.
er*
m
fiUCH
INC
*y
PO
*«eg
»W-L-.
6Y ■ A A
f ijqjff Jam€s CWwa'oA' Sards' J rJ&
Jo td Irtj till A SAyreAeefieso
Business Announcements.
BjaHE THREE GREAT LIGHTS!
The Needles Patent Gas-making Machine;
The Harvey Patent Safety Kerosene Lamp;
And the New Era Portable Gas Lamp.
The Harvey Lamp has been adopted by the
Railway Commissioners for lighting the Sydney
trams. We were awarded the Highest Order of
Merit and Special Mention by experts _at the
late Melbourne Exhibition for our lighting
mediums. Over 0000 Harvey Lamps are in use
in this colony, and for all lighting purposes are
giving universal satisfaction. These Lamps can
be seen on one of the North Shore ferry-boats,
and are suitable for all classes of vessels. The
Inventor offers £2OO to anyone producing as good
a Kerosene Burner.
Patentees for Australasia:
H. T. Smith & Co., 494 Kent St. South, Sydney;
14 Arcade, Adelaide, S.A.; Argent Street, Broken Hill;
Parkside Iron Works, Melbourne.
—THE—
SYDNEY SOAP & CANDLE CO.,
Liniited,
MANUFACTURERS OF
St ear in e and Paraffin Candles,
HOT A COLD WATER SOAP
Of every Description
Glycerine, Lubricating, Machine, Cloth and
Neatsfoot Oils.
The only Genuine and Original
Magic Cleanser Cold Water Soap.
To be had at all Grocers and Storekeepers.
Upfold’s Tree Pest Exterminator,
Its Effects are Marvellous! ,
H. HILDE R,
BOOT UPPER MANUFACTURER
IMPORTER OP
ENGLISH AND FOREIGN LEATHER,
Elastic Web, Grindery, Ac.,
Wholesale and Retail Leather Merchant
539 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
—THE—
Art Furnishing Warehouse.
BEARD,WATS OK & CO.,
S6l George Street, SYDNEY,
Direct attention to their Magnificent Stock of
Carpets, floorcloths, Linoleums,
And other Floor Coverings, in the
NEWEST DESIGNS A AUTISTIC COLOURINGS.
Art Decorations, Upholstery Work and
Window Draping a Speciality.
All Orders executed hy a Staff op Experienced
Workmen, and Special Attention given to the Carry-
ing out Of Customers' wishes with punctuality and
promptitude.
Hotels*
WESTERN HOI'EIL,
Warrnambool, Victoria.
THIS old-established and well-known Family
and Commercial Hotel combines all the
requirements of a First-Class Hotel with home
comforts.
It is in full view of the sea and within a short
distance of the picturesque scenery of the Hopkin’s
River, which affords the finest Rod and Fly Fishing
in the colony.
Arrangements made for the Hire of Rowing and
Fishing Boats and Fishing Tackle. Bait, etc.,
supplied. M? Good Shooting in the immediate
neighbourhood.
It is also within Two Minutes’ walk of the Hot
and Cold Sea Water Baths, which are unsur-
passed in the colonies.
13?” Livery and Letting Stables.
Booking Office for Cobb & Co.’s Coaches. Thos.
Cook A Sons’ Hotel Coupons taken.
GEORGE W. CLARE - Proprietor.
THE GEORGE HOTEL
(opposite Railway Station, near Baths),
St. Hilda, Victoria.
First-class Family & Commercial Hotel.
For particulars, apply to
3J*. WIMFOLE,
PROPRIETOR,
Xjf OVAL HOTEL,
Esplanade,
ST. KILDA. VICTORIA,
Facing Beach, dose to Pier and Baths Ten
minutes from Station.
H. MOONEY .... Proprietor.
LIVERY LETTING STABLES ATTACHE!.
. Telephone GB2.
First-class Accommodation for Visitors
JONG'S imperial hotel,
TOOWOOMBA, QUEENSLAND.
Acknowledged the Best Hotel on the Darling
Downs. First-class Accommodation.
Private Suites First Class Sample Kooms.
Conveyance Meets Every Train.
JOHN LONG - - Late of New Zealand.


SHEVILL & C 0.,
Corner Queen Street and Flinders Lane,
MELBOURNE.
MERCANTILE AUCTIONEERS,
House, Laud, and Estate Agents,
i ■
-■
a
' V
r m
4
m.
sfilS
-i J
Advances made against shipments of Merchandise
and Colonial Produce.
Daily Sales held at their Commodious
New Rooms.
OUTDOOR
Furniture & Land Sales Conducted.
Branch
Offices
Chapel Sti, Prahran.
2 Albert St., Windsor.
BRANCiI
Offices
Importer of
■^VIISTBS, x SPIRITS, x BEERS, x ETC.,
George and Gippa Streets, Bjdnej.
SPECIALITIES;
Johm Jameson’s Dublin Whisky (5 to 10 years old); W. Jameson’s, Dunvilus’s Doe’s and Wise’s (old Cork) Whiskies
nt , HLNIkESBY s > Martell s and Sazehac’s Brandies (5, 10, 15 and 21 years old),
gas- ™. „ 1 arul Oldest SCOTCH WHISKIES (in wood), Imported and Bottled by P.R.L.
tW The Best lort and Sherry Wmes wid Ohan.pagnes. IST All Brands of Colonial Wines. The leading brands
of Lotileo Ale and Stout, arriving by monthly steamers.
Prince of Wales Hotel, 778 & 780 George Street.
SOjolesalE anil (angle Bottle Departments, rssj anil (renrne-st., Svilnev.
SEND FOR A PRICE LIST.
PIRST--OLAS3 LADIES’ REFRESHMENT ROOM & LAVATORY,
GIFPS STREET (Opposite A. Hordcm & Sons,)
) x ( L
Produce Stores, Gipps St e , and Darlingfiurst Hoad,
HEAiD OFFICE; STEEE'f (Next Prince of Wales Hotel).
Jt3S33wMSS
::-~V0
3xraES - W ;
FURNITURE
WAREHOUSES,
York Street, Wynyard Square, Sydney,
Now Supply the General Public as well as the Trade.
IO s ©Oo .Bedsteads
IQs. €5 cl. -fco> £35;
:r
Mi
lUmw'u
mi
;a« ! <
S W 0 Q
WPS
OT
fltt
3dw
*
SOUK
IS
Wl
Y
8s 0 6ii
General Auctioneers and E tatb Agents,
S*J5 t'olilns Street, Mclbonme. and 11 C'kapej
Street, South ¥arra.
S’l-ee S s> 3re£3C3K’3.'g3't;3.J323.3
Are to be found in the “Light and Ijifo,’
for the Speedy Cure of Nervous Debility and
Kindred Diseases, Ac. A copy of this book will
be sent Free, sealed, for Six Penny Stain p c
Address—
S. WARD k 00., SYDNEY PHAEtIAOf,
TO HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY,
tr
V-
t
-
*'C'
Si
???
±-
ice
*IIIEI T noiSnnannr
'
=1
Kno>vfe t
PARK
LAS
MINING & HYDRAULIC ENGINEERS
AND
GENERAL MACHINERY MERCHANTS,
&C., &C'., &c.
18? Us 189 Clarence Sftree
SYXJNESY, IKT.S.W.
. And SAN FRANCISCO, CALIFORNIA,
m
SMfi
m.
Kock Breakers*
•r
Bnn
Wostliigliousv ICM”inrs.
TP A M* G- Y 3ES S
Hauling Engines.
Battery Engines.
Saw-mill Engines,
EHGIIiTES
FOR
Electric Lighting.
Vertical Boilers.
Mu!titu!:u!ar Boilers,
< ItOILISUS.
&0., &0.
ENGINES,
2 to 50 u.r.
BOILERS,
1 to 35 h.p.
STEAM PUMPS
For all purposes.
CENTMI FDlffS.
2" to 40" discharge.
HAND PUMPS.
Saw Benches.
Latlxea.
ii mm
&c., &a
'
I
fa
mMMi
i£m f
m
ISitriwpjj 'jCcjiu tijlitjCnbiwijri.
tsaSMf *25.
We invite al those requiring Machinery of any kind for any purpose largo or small, to write for particulars and prices. From the extent of our stock we are generally able to civo immediate delivery
Visitors, whether buyers or not, are always welcome to inspect the magnificent display in our new and extensive Showrooms, * g e ,nilnediato dtl,very *
:E3C rsr s T dec. :es des t, zca: "st ive .a. dec dc-s: des *37, -^r.
X 3 X, X 3 3
«Sc
135
