

ď
IvTarDset Street, ©"ZTDKrErS"-
UNRIYALLED ACCOMMODATION.
WzMj.
4 jmm
m
/■ -■
> •
'I ■ ■ MDMiil
mw&m
■ : if
|ll,l" /. '_ ■
w
\V .£: 1 !: sw»
Patent Hammoquette Reclining Chair
FOR
Comfort, Convenience and Durability is the Desideratuih.
):(
Patentee for all the Australasian Colonies : , ■
E. E. JOKES, 6 BRIDGE ST.
ZEsT. S. W.
COMFORT FOR THE WEARY; THE INVALID’S FRIEND; AND A HAVEN OF REST FOR ALL.
==. THE CHAIR "OF THE AGE ! =
M
Me. R. B. Jones. Parliament House, Melbourne, 12th Juno, 1888.
Dear Sir, —I have much pleasure in stating that the nine chairs I purchased from you have given me every satisfaction. —
Yours truly,
M. 11. DAVIES, M.L.A., Speaker Legislative Assembly.
Extract from Sydney Morning Herald of 15th August, 1888, referring to the exhibits in the Centennial Inter-
national Exhibition, Melbourne, says: — l 'A little more to the Westward, the visitor finds a platform on which are placed
a number of Hammoquette .Reclining Chairs, one of the latest things from that ingenious
class of Americans who devote their lives to the invention of objects which shall minister
to the fastidious-tastea of the invalid, or meet the luxurious demands of the wealthy. The
Hammoquette Chair, constructed mainly of American ash, coloured to resemble mahogany,
is shown by R. B. Jones, (5 Bridge-street, Sydney, and can, at will, be made to assume a
great variety of shapes. It is difficult to conceive a more valuable addition to a sick room,
library, study, or verandah, than the Hammoquette Chair must prove.”
" . ■; ~ ~rL
:
I
mm.'
T HE COLONIAL MUTUAL LIFE ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED.
BRANCHES THROUGHOUT THE COLONIES AND THE UNITED KINGDOM.
• r f:
Policies issued under the Ordinary, IVEodifieci Tontine and Mortuary OlvidLendL Systems,
c.
V
5
v v :\
m
%
Cto>—‘iisnoia
!»l3Sni avo.i SPJW.IiOH
Howard's ('o'oui « 2-Vnrpo w Wigging
t’KMjgis. (k./.o.ij
X-kx® , offi tlae Times !
PLOUGHING AND HARROWING IN’ ONE ACT.
Poisafcs only cost 6c.lL, and are Reversible.
Ciiai-f-(,( tiers, Horse Gears and every kind of Agricultural Implements
I3NT STOCK.
SOU” Enquirers please quote this paper. f
280-1 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
(Corner op Pitt and Bathurst Streets).
ran
ok
79 V
m.
m
m
—THE—
LONDON & SYDNEY
TEA
COMPANY.
409— KENT STREET-409
(Two doova from Market Street),
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
*6ol (J™ mu
—IMPORT—
mo- H-G LASS lUDIAIsT & CHI3STA
TEAS
Packed in 201 b. and 401 b. Packages, and delivered at Is. 6d. r la. 9d. and 2s. per lb.
(Carriage Free) to any Railway Station or Port in New South Wales.
A Single Package at Wholesale Price. Correspondence invited and promptly attended to.
The Bulletin
Vol. 11 —No. 533.]
[Saturday, February 22, 1890.


oaavaoi
£
S 3
O
x
<v
SIR ROGER
C MA/&
50
a:
a
o
o
DIXSONS
Dr. RIDGE’S
FOOD
FOE INFANTS AND INVALIDS
Has an enormous sale in
and is hoav being introduced
Colonies.
Every Storekeeper should get
as every Wise mother will
use it.
TJR. RIDGE’S ROYAL FOOD MILLS,
LONDON, ENGLAND.
England
into the
a supply
certainly
mss
ffllc
wm
C HILDB
TPUNKS»C»C
BOSTON
BROWN’S
SATIN
POLISH
—FOR—
LADIES’ AND CHILDREN'S
BOOTS AND SHOES.
Awarded highest honors at
Phila., 1876
Berlin, 1877
Pans, 1878
Melbourne, 1880
Frankfort, 1881
Amsterdam 1883
New Orleans, 1884-85, and wherever
exhibited.
Paxds medal on every bottle.
Beware of Imitations.
This Blacking is in liquid form and is applied to shoes
or other articles of leather by means of a sponge, attached
to the cork hy a wire, so that the blacking can be used by
anyone without soiling the fingers. No polishing brush
is required. It dries immediately after being applied, and
will not soil the most delicate clothing.
Sold largely in Australia through Commission Merchants
and Dealers.
B. r. BROWN & CO.,
Boston, U.S.A., M’f’gs.
Brittenberg & CO.
• IMPORTERS,
81 Clarence St., Wynyard Square.
Furniture, Mirrors, Oleographs, and Mouldings.
ATKINSON’S
ENGLISH PERFUMERY
surpasses all others (or its natural
fragrance.
Atkinson’s Celebrated
EAU DE COLOGNE
Is Unequalled for its Strength and
Delightful Fragrance. It far sur-
passes the numerous compounds sold
under the same name.
Of all Dealers pnd of the Manufacturere—
J, & E. ATKINSON,
24, OLD BOND STREET, LONDON.
iv Trade Mark—“ While Rose’* on “Golden
Lyre/* with Address in fullt
LAWLESS, Junr.
37 MAEKET STEEET,
SYDNEY,
ru.it M erch.ant.
Insure Your Health Against All Risks
—BT TAKING—
Kruse's Fluid .
It Cools the Blood, Promotes a Healthy Flow of the Secretions
and Fortifies the System against the Shafts of Disease.
The Best Aperient For Children. Numerous Cold Medals.
SUPERIOR tJO etll OTHERS!
(Vide Medical Testimonials, Analysis, &0., accompanying each Bottle.)
x x
—TAKE ONLY KRUSE’S
Sold in Bottles at Is, 3d., 2s. 6d., 3s. 6d. Each.
Wholesale Agents: Messrs. ELLIOTT Bros., Ltd
CLARENDON HOTEL, MANLY,
The Brighton of New South Wales.
AT the CLARENDON HOTEL, Banquets, Suppers, Private Dinners, Evening Parties, etc., are
served on the Shortest Notice in the Large Dining Hall. Besides having a most recherche
Dinner, you can enjoy from the balconies the magnificent view of the sea and surrounding country ;
here also you can have good company, good wines—in fact, everything that can possibly make one
comfortable can be found at this really first-class hotel. Fishing and Picnic Parties provided. Table
de Hote at One o’clock daily and Sundays. No expense is spared by Mrs. KILMXNSTER to make her
i isltors comfortable and her Hotel the best in the oolemy.
Mrs. HUXjMUNTST'EIXI, Clarendon Hotel,
Opposite OCEAN BEACH, MANLY.
RICHMOND FAMILY HOTEL*
PORTLAND, VICTORIA.
John Shelton - Proprietor.
68 Hunter Street, and 8 Bligh Street,
SYDNEY.
IF 1 . SHBOEDBB
LIVERY, BAIT, LET-OUT AND COMMIS-
SION STABLES.
Horses and Vehicles of every description for
Sale or Hire; also, good reliable Ladies or Gentle-
men’s Hacks.
WILLIAM CARGILL,
Photographic Stock Importer,
2 6 MARKET STREET, SYDNEY.
LW
vl/
_V|£
6^
D
vl>
VIA.
if
e
D
w
Offices
~.VlCf ORIA,
Cbaffejr Irrigation Offices, Swanston Street.
• SnurHi Austaalu.
♦ ‘
Cavendish Chambers, Grenfell Street'.
J. E. Mathew Vincent, (Chief Commissioner)
Cornwall Buildings, 35 Queen Victoria $t,
UON DON E C'
Troadd a Cf
PRINCE OF WALES’ HOTEL,
S-fc. Kllcia, Victoria.
Within Five Minutes from STATION, and One Minute from ESPLANADE and BATHS.
MRS. KONG MENG ... ... ... Proprietress.
LEA & PERRINS’
SAUCE.
Purchasers should see that the Label on every bottle of the original
‘ • WORCESTERSHIRE SAUCE
bears the Signature, thus *'
Ask for Lea & Perrins’ Sauce, and see Name on Wrapper, Label, Bottle and Stopper.
Wholesale and for Export by the Proprietors, Worcester; Crosse Blackwell, London, sc., so.}
and by Grows and Oilmen throughout the World.
The
—Everyone should Read—
BULLETINS
“HISTORY of BOTANY BAY,
By ARTHUR GAYLL.
Profusely Illustrated by “ The Bulletin’s” well-known Artists, L. Hopkins and Phil May.
Price - ONE SHILLING; per Post, Is. 3d.
May be had from Agents, or direct from “ The Bulletin ” Office.
Agents Victorian: A. Benjamin, 321 Little Collins Street East, Melbourne; Tasmanian: Fitzgerald Brothers, George Street,
Launceston; Queensland : J. H. Thompson, George Street, Brisbane.


Business Announcements.
BEA3LS & COMPANY’S
3\Tew N7S7"sn:r*©]f3.o-c«.s©.
"fy
dtj
r-ivvltiitrc ■ :■ >**■
P
188
OUR NEW SHOWROOMS AND HEAD OFFICES,
482 and 484 George Street,
SYDNEY.
A RADICAL REFORM.
“Oh, I feel so Mondayish !” exclaims the housemother
at her breakfast table on the Monday morning. Although
the above absurd adjective is not to be found in the dic-
tionary, yet every woman well knows its meaning when
she looks forward to the teeming, steaming, boiling, toil-
ing, temper-trying, hateful washing day. The house is
thrown out of joint, other weekly duties are, as far as
possible, set aside, the children kept out of the way, a cold
dinner for the family, and a warm reception for anyone
who intrudes to waste time and to prolong the agony.
Happy, indeed, is the home where “washing day” is a
thing of the past. Every busy, hard-pressed mother
knows the wretchedness and gloom which the present
washing day brings down upon the household. In the
early morning all is prepared for the all important washer-
woman, timed to arrive for an early breakfast, and then
to attack the week or fortnight’s batch of soiled linen.
The good-natured husband readily excuses a hastily-pre-
pared breakfast, for he hopes it may betoken the speedy
ending of the dreadful day. The children are packed off
to school, and then begins in earnest the strife between
the housewife, anxious to get everything finished in good
time,' and the professional laundress, equally anxious to
make the work last over two days. With the greatest
impartiality the laundress divides her attention between
the discussion of light refreshments and the very latest
gossip, the intervals of time being filled up with a gentle
application to her special functions
Very many of our valued customers to whom we have
supplied labor-saving appliances in the past, do their own
washing. In every family, in our climate, frequent
changes of underclothing are necessary. Then there are
the house linen, the cotton dresses, white coats, and
outer garments ; and all this is heaped up for the poor
house-mother to cleanse, perhaps with the assistance of a
daughter, if there is one old enough. It is not that the
husband, who also works hard, is unkind. Expenses are
many, economy is imperative, days of depression and of
trouble must be provided against. So the washing is to
be done, and the wife must do it; and after the imperfect
rest of a sultry night, as she gets ready the breakfast upon
! a hot Monday morning, she feels for a while that her lot
is cheerless, that the apportionment of toil is beyond her
share and beyond her strength ; that somehow a change
should be made. No wonder that fair young girls, after a
few years of married life', become worn-looking, and that,
they age faster than they ought. The husband is willing
enough to cherish the good wife's comeliness, and to make
her lot easy, but how ? She does not complain, only .says
she feels always “ tired ”
Now, as purveyors of household implements, we have
long seen our opportunity to enlarge our business by
introducing a thoroughly efficient Washing and Mangling
Machine. Both these services must be combined in the
one article. This we’ have most perfectly and assuredly
accomplished. The demon of the washing day is not
scotched but killed.
We resolved to introduce nothing until absolutely certain
by observation, experiment, and test, that the implement
would be a success. There are hosts of Washing Machines.
The vast majority are childish fads, are injurious, or are
useless. We say and we prove that the Beale Patent
Washer will save in labour of washingin proportion as our
Sewing Machines do in sewing. And in a higher degree,
for the washing by hands is so much the more laborious.
The Beale Patent Washer may be described as follows :
The vertical tub is very carefullv made, with fluted sides,
it is stationary, only the water and the clothes being
agitated by an accurately shaped “dolly,” which is worked
by a fly-wheel. The clothes are simply dropped in, no
arrangement or packing being wanted. The special
reversing gear moves this dolly swiftly backwards and for-
wards, and a very small expenditure of strength suffices
to lash the water into a mass of foaming suds. In the
process the clothes are floated to and fro, up and down ;
currents and cross-currents of water are formed, which
meet, and are forced through and through the fabric,
carrying away every particle of dirt and stain. The linen,
being merely suspkxdkd in the water, is not rubbed and
scrubbed as in hand-washing. Neither has anything to
submit to the hand-wringing process, which insensibly
rips, tears, and wears the clothes. Thus the most delicate
fabrics cannot be torn by our system of washing. Every-
one has noticed that their clothes seem to lie as much
worn by washing as by use. This is caused by the fierce
rubbing they get upon washing boards, or by the hands.
With the Beale Patent Washing Machines this friction is
done away with. Therefore, the clothes will last far longer
than by hand-washing, however careful. When the wash-
ing is done, the tub should be wiped out, so that it be
always sweet and clean. There is no false bottom, and
nothing to accumulate greasy sediments.
When you buy a Machine of any kind,
have a good one.
Beale & Company
182 Si 181 George Street,
SYDNEY.
We have erected new Show-rooms, Offices, and
Warehouses, at No. 482 and 484, George-street,
Sydney, opposite Central Markets, and near to
the Royal Arcade. These are the loftiest com-
mercial buildings in the city, and can be seen from
all parts of the city and adjacent suburbs. The
Showrooms are the largest and finest in the
Southern Hemisphere, for the due display of the
splendid Hapsburg Pianos, Haydn Organs, and
Beale Patent Sewing Machines.
All goods may be had upon easy time-payment,
or for cash less three shillings in the pound.
Photographs, price-lists, and samples free by
post.
No matter where you live, we will supply you
with a Piano, Organ, Harmonium, Sewing Machine
or Washing Machine, upon easy time-payment.
Branches and Travellers throughout New South
Wales and Queensland.
Business Announcements.
\ • ' :-.r
n
\
N
HIGH
Buggies,
Wag'g'ous,
CLASS
Phaetons,
and Harness.
WILLIAM FLEMING,
22 & 24 CLARENCE ST., SYDNEY.
See Signature in
Blue Ink across
the Label thus;—
*
đ
COLemaneisons
Eucalypti Oil
1
>•-
Victory Ointment*
THE TREE OF LIFE.
nr.e
The only pure Eucalypte In the World
AWA.RDKD Gold Medal Adelaide Jubilee
Exhibition. First Prize Great Centennial
Exhibition, Sydney. The only known CURE for
Asthma, Bronchitis, Consumption, Pleurisy,
Colds, Coughs, and all affections of the Chest and
Lungs; also, for Gout, Rheumatism, Sciatica,
etc. Our VICTORY OINTMENT stands with-
out a rival for Bad Legs, Bad Breasts, Cancers,
Tumours, and skin diseases of all kinds. Also,
manufacturers of the Eucalypte Pills, Eucalypte
Hair Restorer, Eucalypte Soap, and our world-
famed Eucalypte Honey is the best preparation
before the public for young Children and aged
people Also, makers of the Eucalypte Lozenges
for the Voice. Manufactory—Cootamundra.
Sydney Wholesale Depot -251 Elizabeth Street
Posted to any part of the Colonies. Sold Every-
where. Beware of Imitations.
CARLSBAD
NATURAL MINERAL WATERS
are now Imported In bottles and used In treat-
ment of CHRONIC GASTRIC CATARRH, HYPER
tEMIA of the LIVER, GALL STONES, CHRONIC
CONSTIPATION, DIABETES, RENAL CALCULI,
GOUT, and diseases of the spleen arising from
residence in the tropics or malarious districts.
THE NATURAL
CARLSBAD SPRUDEL - SALT
In small and frequent doses is an efficient
DIURETIC,but as an APERIENT it should be taken
BEFORE BREAKFAST, in doses of from 1 to 2 tea-
spoonfuls, dissolved in water. To increase the
APERIENT action of the Carlsbad Mineral Water,
a teaspoonful of the Salt, previously dissolved
in water should be added.
SOLE CONSIGNEES for the U.K. and the Colonies
INGRAM & ROYLE, 82, Farringdon St., London,
And of all Chemists throughout the World.
The Natural Mineral Waters of
(STATE
d
SPRINGS.)
GRJINDE-GRILLE .—For Affections of the
Liver, Biliary Organs, &c.
CELESTINb. —For the Kidneys, Gravel, Gout
Rheumatism, Diabetes, &c.
HOPITAL. — For Stomach Complaints.
HADTERIVE. — An excellent Table Water.
OF ALL CHEMISTS! IN AUSTRALASIA.
jar” IN THE PRESS,
“.A. GJ-OLJDIEIsr
AND OTHER
Australian Tales and Sketches
In Prose and Verse,
By ‘‘BULLETIN 1 ' WRITERS.
Business Announcements.
MASON BROTHERS,
[cxkuii
Pi
LIMITED.
263 to 269 KENT STREET,
SYDNEY,
Have always in Stock for Sale to the
Trade and Wholesale Buyers Only,
Ironmongery, and
GENERAL HARDWARE
Cilass, China and
E A RTHENff ARE.
WINES. BEERS & SPIRITS,
AXI) GENERAL
BULK MERCHANDISE.
Agents for
JOHN WALKER and SONS
Old Highland Whisky.
J. SORIN and CO.’S
Cognac.
J. T. GAYEN’S,
Schnapps and Geneva.
A. MELVIN and SONS’
Edinburgh Pale Ale.
SPECI A L T Y!
HEKTRY KIKTG,
PHOTO-SCENIC ARTIST,
316 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Is constantly adding fresh subjects to his Im-
mense Stock of Australian and New Zealand
Views, comprising every variety of subject taken
from Nature unadorned and Art glorified.
Marine Views and Landscapes,
Mountains and Caves,
Crack Vachts and Cathedrals,
Old Identities and Young Australians,
Everyday Sights and Stirring Incidents,
Stereo, and Lantern Slides,
High-class Portraiture.
Catalogues on Application.
316 George St.. between limiter and King Sts.
Medical.
DR. SPEER’S
AMERICAN DISPENSARY
3 1 Yo r k Street.
P.O. Box 920.
Dr. Speer is a regular Graduated Physician, educated at
Harvard College, U.S. (for confirmation see New Zealand
Gazette, January 21st, 1886; also New South Wales
Gazette, April 17th, 1888). The doctor has devoted 14
years to the study of CHRONIC, NERYOUS, AND
SPECIAL DISEASES. Four of these were in the leading
hospitals of the United States, which enables him to treat
all complaints with excellent results. All applying to
him will receive his honest opinion of their complaints.
No experimenting ;no Mercury used. He will guarantee
a positive cure in every case he undertakes, or forfeit
£2OO. His reason for doing so is this—when there is no
organic disease, and nothing but an inorganic trouble, or,
in other words, a conglomeration of symptoms producing
a certain result, there is no reason why it cannot be re-
moved with the proper remedies, therefore he guarantees.
He wishes it distinctly understood that he does not claim
to perform impossibilities, or to have miraculous power
he claims only to be a skilled and successful physician
thoroughly informed in his speciality—CHßONlC and
SPECIAL DISEASES of MEN and WOMEN. People
residing at a distance can, by explaining their troubles in
detail be treated at home. The course of treatment will
not in any way interfere with their business. Examina-
tion and advice free to all. Charges moderate. H. J.
Speer, M D., 31 York-street, Sydney. Post Office Box,
No. 920. Office hours, 10 a.m. 012 a.m. 2to 4 and 7
to 8 p.m. Sundays from 10 to 11 a.m. only.
&
s.
ft Sr
far
<e
0/ CTu
T O YOTJKTG- MSKT.
DR. FLETCHER’S
TREATISE ON NERVOUS DISEASES, THEIR CAUSE,
SYMPTOMS, TREATMENT, AND CURE.
fTHE directions contained in this little treatise will be
found of immense benefit to the sufferer; and if these
directions are observed during the early stages of Nervous
or Sexual Debility, No Medicines will he required, as, by
observing the directions given, the patient can Cure Him-
self. _
This admirable little treatise is specially written to
show a method of counteracting the evil effects of indis-
cretions in early life—overwork, irregularity in eating or
drinking, &c. It is the result of much study and long
and successful experience in the treatment of diseases,
and contains a fund of useful information to every suf-
ferer from the following complaints, viz.: —Nervous
Debility, Dizziness, Specks before the Eyes, Pains in the
Back, Defective Memory, Loss of Will Power, Loss of
Energy, Spermatorrhoea, Bashfulness, Discontentedness,
Constipation, Liver and Kidney Derangements, Atrophy,
Impotence, Impure Blood, Foul Taste in Mouth, Palpita-
tion of Heart, Wakefulness, Despondency, Excessive Ner-
vousness, Inability to Marry, Premature Decay, and other
symptoms experienced by nervous sufferers.
All Should Send for this Little Treatise.
If the complaint is of long standing and requires
medicine, Dr. Fletcher will GUARANTEE TO CURE
ANY CASE OF NERVOUS or SEXUAL DEBILITY
with ONE COURSE OP MEDICINES LASTING FIVE
WEEKS, and will send with medicines A WRITTEN
GUARANTEE to cure same or return the monies paid.
Dr. Fletcher’s treatment is both simple and effective,
and within the reach of the poorest. It is unlike any
other, and with it he has cured over 25,000 patients, and
invites patients to investigate his statements by verifying
the testimonials published in his treatise. The treatise
will be forwarded on receipt of two stamps to cover
postage.
CONSULTATION BY LETTER, FREE.
Address in first instance—
DR. h. EWART FLETCHER,
Box 1417, G.P.O.
Sydney, N.S.W.
Private address—Clonmel House, Waverley, Sydney.
Remember, all cases undertaken, guaranteed, and a
signed agreement given, which provides that NO COST
be incurred by the patient if a cure is not effected.
VARICOCELE RADICALLY CURED WITHOUT
OPERATION.
Mention this Paper.


"W" ill Its© Fublislieti Shortly,
“ A GOLDEN SHANTY:
Australian Tales and Sketches in Prose and Verse
•Fly ‘ Bulletin ’ Writers. ”
A Selection from the brightest of the original literary matter which has made The Bulletin world-famous. Price Is. :if posted, 3d. extra.
Public Companies.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA.
THE COMING COLONY!
Everyone should Invest a Few Pounds in Land
in
The CAPITAL CITY OP WESTERN AUSTRALIA.
Compared with other Australian Cities the Price
is Very Low.
The Coal, Gold and Tin Mines are attracting
much enterprise and capital to the Colony.
OITY BUILDING ALLOTMENTS,
From £1 per Foot.
BUILDING SITES adjoining the CITY
From £lO Eacli.
Small Deposit. Easy Terms. Discount for Cash.
Each Lot guaranteed good Building Land.
Land in Perth will increase greatly in value during
the next few years.
INQUIRY COSTS NOTHING.
Pamphlets, Marked Plans, and full information
posted to any address on application to
The Intercolonial Investment Co., Limitel
• ? ;'
96 Bathurst Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
W. J. DOUGLAS, Manager.
Federation Chaff.
Prime OATEN CHAFE,
Pur chaser.to find bags.
}
4/- per cwt. Cash
Prime OATEN CHAFF,
Bags Free.
)
4/6 per cwt. Cash.
Fresh Every I»ay. Onr Own Cutting.
Quality Guaranteed.
RYE STRAW, 4/- RYE STRAW, 4/
The Cheapest and Best Produce in Sydney.
CITY PRODUCE" COMPANY,
Hay Street, Haymarket, SYDNEY.
=CLYDE=
ULTM, CRUSHING anil CHLOMTIOH
WORKS,
CLYDE, near GEANVILLE,
New South Wales.
Load and Silver Ores,
ALSO,
Gold Concentrates,
Purchased in any quantity.
Miners and others are invited to send Small or
Large Parcels of Ore to the above Works, which,
on being assayed, Cash Returns will be at once
remitted.
Tariff of Charges forwarded on application to
the Secretary at the Works, Clyde.
The British and New South Wales Investment
and Financial Co., limited.
Incorporated under the Companies’ Act, 1874.
Capital, £250,000.
Sydney Office: 246 PITT STREET.
"DILLS DISCOUNTED and Immediate Advances granted
Daily. Country communications promptly attended
to. The following Rates of Interest are allowed for Fixed
Deposits:—
3 Years .... 10 per cent.
12 Months .... 9 per cent.
6 Months .... .... 8 per cent.
3 Months .... 7 per cent.
With a Guaranteed Bonus on Renewals of Twelve Months
and over.
By order of the Board.
W. M'DONA LI), Manager.
Business Announcements.
ANDREW KING & CO.,
Wholesale Soft Goods Importers and Warehousemen,
FLINDERS STREET, MELBOURNE,
Ojiposile Hobson’s Bay Railway Station.
rj*HIS old-established house was opened to the Public last Monday as the “MODERN
FAMILY WAREHOUSE,” when the rooms were rushed and the doors had to be
closed.
The Press and the Public have pronounced the Opening Day the Greatest Success
ever achieved in Victoria.
The Goods required no pushing, so Customers were not annoyed by salesmen.
Plain Figures and Good Value at once convinced Purchasers of the advantages to
be gained by buying from a Wholesale House ; and now ANDREW KING & CO. take
position of
Premier Drapers in Victoria.
Parcels delivered at Railway Station on opposite side of street, so that you can do
your shopping in shorter time and with more satisfaction by calling at the “ MODERN
FAMILY WAREHOUSE” as you come into town than by going elsewhere.
Note. —The present Stock is being Sold very much under Wholesale Cost, and
Householders should not neglect this rare opportunity of replenishing their stocks.
Lengths and Quantities to suit all. No Second Prices.
Terms Strictly Cash.
Cov/ntry Orders promptly attended to, and Squatters’ Parcels made and sent by return.
Note Address ;
“The Modern Family Warehouse,
OPPOSITE HOBSON’S BAY STATION.
The LONDON & SYDNEY TEA COMPANY,
IMPORTERS OF HIGH-CLASS TEAS,
4:09 KEKTT STREET, SYDNEY.
Packed in 12, 20, and 40ib Caddies
@ Is. 6d., Is. 9d., and 2s. per lb.
m
I
r
r
r
r
rt
Delivered feee to any Railway Station
or Port in New South Wales.
“No. John ;no more Tea from you. I buy now from the London and Sydney T ea Company.”
-THE-
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL
FIRE
Insurance Society.
Established ... ... 1872.
Bonuses
OF
20 per cent. Paid Annually
since 1873.
33IJJQ QW3 H
I*l
!T!
i«ji
JJ
u
Piiiii
IV
vihi
—THE
Oldest Mutual Fire Office
in Australia.
Claims promptly and liberally
settled. Fifteen days’ grace
allowed for Renewal of Policies.
Lowest Current Rates charged.
Hon. George Thornton, M.L.C.,
Chairman.
Hkad Office:
Corner Pitt Sc King Streets,
SYDNEY.
Walter Church ... Manager.
Medical.
pULVERMACHER’S WORLD-
* FAMED GALVANIC BELTS
FOR THE CURE OP
Nervous Exhaustion and Debility, Sciatica,
Lumbago, Rheumatism, &c„
HAVE received Testimonials from Three
Physicians to Her Majesty the Queen and
the Leading Physicians of many London Hospi-
tals, including over Forty Members of the Royal
College of Physicians of London.
For full Price-list and particulars, see new pam-
phlet _ “Galvanism : Nature’s Chief Restorer of
Impaired Vital Energy.” Pamphlets Free.
Sole Agents for N.S.W.,
FROST <Sc SHIPHAM
ELECTRICIANS,
4:74; & 587 George Street, Sydney.
Sole Agents for Victoria:
ALLISON BROS., 477 Collins-street West, Melbourne.
D R SMITH, U.S.A.,
MEDICAL EXPERT
In PRIVATE COMPLAINTS of BOTH SEXES.
A Prompt and Safe Cure Guaranteed.
CONSULTING ROOMS:
Nos. 7 & 8 First Floor, 482 GEORGE STREET,
SYDNEY.
Hours ; ... From 11 a.m. till 4 p.m.
Business Announcements.
—AUSTRALIAN—
goIIcr Iflour and grain gtoreA,
GRANVILLE, N.S.W.
Sydney Office: - 173 CLARENCE STREET
(near King Street).
Brunton’s Patent Roller Flour
—AWARDED—
The Highest Order of Merit at every Competition,
AND
“Special Recommendation” of the Jurors of the
Melbourne International Centennial Exhibition,
1888-89.
ď
QIUDY ECONOMY
0 and
Have your Umbrella Framea
Re-Covered, and your
Parasols Re-Lined and made
Equal to New, at
J. SULLIVAN’S,
541 George Street,
Brickfield Hill, Sydney,
• between
Liverpool <1; Bathurst Sts.,
Parasols made to match Cos-
tumes. Repairs neatly done.
PAPER-HANGINGS
Ous,Colours a p A , NT s
WALL PAPERS FRo/w3?rou
p fit
529 George Siv
Brickfield Hill.
Thomas Ross,
TOBACCO &. CIGAR IMPORTER,
27 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY,
(Corner of Pitt Street.)
A large stock of Genuine llavannali Cigars, of the
choicest Brands to select from.
Sole Importer of the Celebrated “ Flor de Itonito ”
Brand of Cigars and •• Empire Cigarettes.”
Sydney Canister Works,
COLLINS STREET, SURRY HILLS,
OFF CROWN STREET.
Manufacturers of all lends of Tins for Confectioners*
Tea Merchants, Biscuit Makers, &c., also all kinds
of Tins, round and square , for Pepper, Spice and
Baking Powder, made by improved machmery.
A- Trial Solicited.
THE SYDNEY CATERING COMPANY, LTD-
(Late Gunsler’s Cafe)
175 Pitt Street,
Sy cine y.
WISH their former Patrons and the Public Cenerally to know that their Saloons have been Entirely Prorgantskd, and shall be "lad if they will give
their new cusine a trial. JAMES 0- MAEQUAND, Manager


The Bulletin
Vol. 11- No. 523.
SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 22, 1890.
Price, 6d.
n ON>
>v\
“THE LION IN THE WAY” OF FEDERATION. OR. LOOK BEFORE YOU LEAP.


The Bulletin
flie National Australian Newspaper.
“ Australia for the Australians.
Proprietors : BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO.,
Limited.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
A.T 24 Pitt-street, Sydney, New Soutii V\ ales.
terms to subscribe ns
<* (payable in advance, only).
Per Annum ••• ••• £lO 0
Half-yearly 0 12 6
Quarterly
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Macleod, Managing Director.
Literary Communications to be addressed to J. F.
Archibald.
The Editor will carefully read and acknowledge in tne
“ Correspondence ” column all contributions submitted—
whether in the form of Political, Social, or other Articles,
Verse, Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in
length, or say SOOO words, are specially acceptable),
Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper-Clippings. All
communications will be regarded as strictly confidential.
«* The Bulletin" will return all unavailable MSS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we
desire those sending MSS. to distinctly understand that
see are not responsible for the preservation or transmission
of such MSS.
NOTICE.
By sending direct to The Bulletin Ofiice Twenty Shillings
sterling—which you may pay by Post Ofiice Order, One
Pound Note, or Stamps of any Australian colony—you
can have The Bulletin posted regularly to you every week
for a year.
This offer is not open to residents of Sydney. In that
city Tub Bulletin is not delivered by mail, but is entirely
in the hands of our earners, with whom we do not wish
to interfere.
T^e^^xxlleixoi.
SATURDAY. FEBRUARY 22, 1890.
The Australian Working-Day and the
Sydney Bakers’ Strike.
The last two decades of the Nineteenth Cen-
tury will probably be known in the historical
school-books of our remote posterity as the
“ Great Strike Age.” Never before in the
history of the world has been so clearly de-
fined the battle-ground of the struggle be-
tween the “Haves” and the “Have-nots,”
and never before has Labour been so scien-
tifically organised and equipped for the
attainment of its ends. Time and again, it
is true, have the workers been defeated ; but
public opinion is slowly becoming more and
more intelligent, and every branch of labour
is beginning to recognise that any question
which affects a single t rade affects the whole
labour movement. By the slow process of
evolution humanity is now on a fair way to
eventually realise that dream of Karl
Marx of an international confederacy of
Labour which would effectually check the
greed of a special class of capitalistic spolia-
tors and bring about the scientific millennium
of co-operative industrialism.
# * *
Wave after wave rising on the tide of
Want and Injustice has broken on the dykes
that have hitherto stoutly bulwarked specu-
lative interests, but every great strike—
though often followed by terrible suffering
and misery for the strikers—has rendered
more insecure the position of those who
have seized upon the sources of production
for their own selfish and inhuman ends.
Organisation on the part of Capital has been
met with organisation on the part of Labour ;
one country has subscribed to the aid of
another ; stevedore in Australia has assisted
docker in London ; docker, in return, has
voted funds to help the Broken Hill miner
win hL rights ; and international sympathy
has worked in the cause of universal justice
until the very social fabric of our civilisation
totters on its base and the chief corner-stone
of its foundation crumbles to decay.
# # #
Of course, all this has been misrepresented
and distorted by the hireling and subservient
capitalistic press. The magnificent donation
of Australia to the strike-fund of the London
dockers has been lauded as munificent
“charity,” and much pains have been taken
to explain that Burns won his victory purely
because public opinion (in an enormously
rich country, which subscribed but a few
paltry pounds to-help-Hs starving children !)
was on his side, and not by the justice of the
demands of those whom he represented ; and
that Burns himself, the accredited leader in
the movement, was a scoundrel anyway,
however he may have gained his ends ; that
he probably had an axe to grind, and that
the truth was not in him. Upon Henry
George, who is evidently a sincere and
enthusiastic worker in the cause of humanity,
has been heaped every species of calumny
and vituperation. Not a single chief of the
great industrial movement of this century
has escaped a blackening at the hands of the
journalistic flunkeys who wait in attendance
round the skirts of speculative greed. Every
attempt has been made to provoke dis-
sension in the ranks of the workers
themselves; nothing has been neglected
that might tend to the disruption of
every organised association of labour;
public selfishness has been fanned into flame;
public apathy has been nursed into somno-
lence ; religious intolerance has been incited
in the case of the gas-stokers’ strike of recent
occurrence, and the very Word of Cion has
been quoted awry in the interests of the
devilish inhumanity that allows children to
starve for mere bread before the locked
doors of a well-filled larder in which food is
decaying for lack of consumption. Still the
cause of human progress goes forward ;
writers and thinkers of any calibre, the wide
world over, insist upon the rights which are
scientifically comm: n to all, but which have
been contrabanded to the superfluous lavish-
ness of a section ; nation after nation is
drowsily awakening to the logical absurdity
involved in the assumption that the whole
is smaller than a very small part : and
Labour, readily grasping the situation, and
keen to recognise the value of united and
passive resistance, has dropped the barricade
and the blunderbuss, and has seized upon the
strike.
* * *
The whole of the victories gained against
the encroachments of the soulless mega-
therium—Capital—have been gained by
trades-unionism. The motto of the great
French socialists has been taken by the
workers well to heart, and the battle-cry
which is ominous of nobler triumphs than
the Saxons’ “ Allelulia ” is “Organise!
Organise ! ! Organise II!” By organization
alone can aught of value be achieved,
and the solid front of a compact ma-
jority is stronger by far for good,
or for evil than dynamite or microbes,
mitrailleuse or N'ordenfeldt. Australia
heads the movement of reform with the
doctrine of the limitation of the hours of
labour. Trade after trade has joined the
ranks of the eight-hours’-men, and although
reactionaries in the old countries of the
world are vainly endeavouring to resist the
influence of so young and presumably inex-
perienced a country as Australia in this
particular direction, America has enthusias-
tically seized upon it, the more advanced
spirits in Europe are following in her
wake, and every branch of Australian
labour is rallying round this principle as a
pivot and nucleus from which further ad-
vances may be made as occasion and oppor-
tunity arise. Popular influence brought to
bear upon a representative government has
in Victoria closed the shops and factories at
an hour justified by the limitations of reason-
able human exertion and endurance, and,
notwithstanding the fact that the greatest
objectors are the wives of the eight-hours-
men in the artizan trades,- who defer their
shopping to late hours, to the credit of the
Victorian public at large be it E.aid the Bill
meets with general approbation. Through-
out the Australias, among the seamen, the
working miners, and the various nondescript
and unoflicially-recognised trades, the prin-
ciple has spread, and now in Sydney the
journeymen bakers demand its extension to
themselves. Hereat the capitalistic press in-
dustriously points out that eight-hours labour
at present wages for journeymen bakers
would mean a rise in the price of bread —hop-
ing thereby to spread a panic amongst a selfish
bread-consuming public, which would deprive
this branch of industrialism of the sympathy
of their fellows. This is not all ! With
evident gusto the fact is announced :
If the strike takes place the masters will probably de-
pend a good deal on German labour, there being a large
number of German bakers in this city.
If German labour takes the place of Austra-
lian labour at low-rates, or during longer
hours than those demanded by the strikers,
let the working-men of Australia look to it !
Now is the time for the trades-unions to
show a bold and uncompromising front.
The least concession here means the annihila-
tion of all that has been done in the past to
secure to Labour the boon of an eight-hours
working day. Concede a single point, and
every trade is threatened !
# * *
Against Germans as Germans we have
nothing to say. Against Germans as a por-
tion of that great pauper army of Poles,
Hungarians, Italians, Russians and Chinese,
which has debased the lot of the worker in
America and rendered necessary extreme
legislation for its exclusion, no dictionary is
sufficiently ample to furnish forth a choice of
expletives. For every man, of whatever
nationality he may be, who will leave his
country on board the ship from which he
sets foot on these shores, who will embrace
our mode of living and the conditions that
regulate our existence, who will join our
trades-unions, and behave like a man, and
not despicably like a worm on the pest-heap
of Free Competition, we have naught but
welcome. If from racial reasons we exclude
-the -KAnakk, the Hindo-
stanee, the Negro ; then from Socialistic and
economical reasons we may shut our ports to
any and every man who will work an hour
longer, or for a shilling less than those who
are already here, banded together in trades-
unions to maintain the rights of man and the
dignity of labour.
# * •
When the Newcastle miners, in defence of
their inalienable rights as human beings,
were threatened with Nordenfeldt guns and
by the importation of cheap British and
Belgian pauper labour, The Bulletin, in
the cause of humanity and justice, alone
amongst Australian journals, denounced the
iniquity of the proposal and demanded the
utterance of the country’s voice on the con-
duct of the Government that would allow it.
To-day, Labour is treated with a similar
threat, and public opinion is so apathetic
that The Bulletin will probably be the
only paper in Australia prepared to uphold
to the bitter end in its columns the justice
of Labour’s claims. The Press of Australia
can well enough plead the cause of the
distant toiler. Into the offices of the Argus,
the Auk, the S.M. Herald, and the Brisbane
Courier may pour the contributions of the
wealthy in aid of the London docker —be-
cause the Australian shipping trade tottered
for a season in the direst danger. W hen the
right is a home right ; when justice is.to be
done in one’s own house, a different note is
struck, a different tone is dominant, public
sympathy is advised to button up its breeches-
pocket, because, forsooth, the price of bread
may rise !
# * *
Public apathy or public sympathy, though
either may affect the result of a strike, can
never affect the justice of the strikers’ claims.
In this age of concession and spineless
expediency, when every movement is ad-
judged not from its intrinsic merits, but
from its extrinsic influence, newspapers
devoted to the needs and necessities of the
stock and share market, are ever veering from
point to point of the moral compass, advo-
cating and opposing alternately, purely upon
popular and objective, never upon abstract
grounds, with one eye keenly fixed on the
advertiser and the other on the advertiser’s
public. If, to-morrow, a mass-meeting voted
funds to the bakers’ strike, paid cheerfully
the advanced price of bread, and sought to
aid morally the men in th.e obtaining of the
eight hours principle, there is not a news-
paper in Australia which would not see the
beauty and holiness of the whole proceedings.
But it is always safe to fight against
the workman. It is never expedient to
suggest under any trade contingency whatever
that, if anybody is to go without something,
for the nonce it might well be the capitalistic
employer. A little less profit would cover
the contention, but a little less profit is so
horrible an alternative that a deluge would
be preferred.
# # *
Australia is boastingly trumpeted forth as
the land of the free, the prosperous, the
contented ! The journeymen bakers are evi-
dently compelled to toil two hours longer than
their fellow workmen in the other trades,
and Australia can hardly be prosperous or
contented when a possible fractional rise in
the price of bread is used as a rallying-cry
to oppose the doing of a small justice to a
little battalion in the huge army of Labour.
A city is no stronger in its defences than the
weakest part in its walls, and’ a nation is just
as free, as prosperous, and as contented as
the most enslaved, the poorest and most
degraded section of it ; and that country
has still to learn the meaning of real pro-
gress which makes the bread-winner’s
exigencies a plea for denying to the bread-
maker his rights. If we are so happy, so
rich, so contented, can a half-penny a
quartern make any appreciable difference in
that much - boasted happiness and wealth
of ours ? The trades-unions have one cause
with all workers, and the socialism which
would disregard the claims of the slave or
the pariah—let alone a deserving class of
genuine brother-workers —and refuse aid to
him in his day of struggle with Capital, on
purely selfish and interested grounds, is un-
worthy alike of intellectual sympathy or
actual and potent assistance.
# * «
But the cause of the journeymen-bakers is
already recognised in Australia as the cause
of universal labour. Already it is stated that
the men on strike are supported by the inter-
colonial unions, and fraternal telegrams
have been flashed to them from every
quarter of the continent, from Brisbane to
Adelaide, and the public—composed mainly
of the wage-serfs who make capital with
which to feed funded fortunes —overtly and
covertly avow their sympathy and express
their readiness to ratify it in a substantial
utterance. A great principle is, however, at
stake. Australia cannot afford to retrograde.
The example of Europe, the example of
Asia, the example of America, must not be
lost to the men who toil beneath the
Southern Cross. We will not repeat the
experience of three continents on this soil.
Free competition must be kept within
bounds, and the worker’s liberty to cut his
own and his brother’s throat must be severely
limited. Here, we will have no pauper
labour to make wealth for exploiting
idlers. Wo have imported a ready-
made system, for which we have our
grandfathers of Good King George’s
glorious days to thank. Let it stop at that !
Our business is to tie up our ready-made
system into so many knots and Gordian
entanglements that it will not work without
strangling the spoilers who attempt to use it.
Above all, we must close our ports to the
cheap muscle which has left its own land
without hope, and which, for the sake of a
very small advance on its old conditions,
here in Australia, plots to drag Labour down
to the same awful gutter of social degrada-
tion as that in which it lately festered in
the labour-slave mart of the old world.
As in a past day of somewhat greater
nobleness than the present, it was a boast
that no slave could breathe the free air of
Gi’eat Britain, let us endeavour to write across
the flag of the Southern Cross in letters of
fire, “No man compulsorily labours in
tralia longer than eight hours a day.”
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Beer and St. Gregory.
The Hon. Nicholas Fitzgerald, M.LC., told
the shareholders in his brewery company, Mel-
bourne, the other day that they were doing an
“enormous business ’’—and a dividend of 25 per
cent was paid. The Bulletin rises to respectfully
draw the attention of Cardinal Moran and Arch-
bishop Carr, who are said to drink cold water
and soda-and-milk respectively, to the circum-
stance that Fitzgerald, aforesaid, is a Knight of
St. Gregory and a Commander of the Order of
Pius ; likewise, that W. H. Archer, who is a
co-proprietor of the Castlemaine Brewery, is also
a Knight of St. Gregory. Why can’t the Car-
dinal and the ArchbishopgetFiTZGßßALD, Archer,
and John Toohey to be office-bearers in the cold-
water “ League of the Cross?” The Pope wont
allow the German monks to brew liquor now.
Are the Knights of St. Gregory to have a mono-
poly of the “enormous business” of swankey
making ? What’s the use of trying to prevent
people drinking long beers, when the Knights o_
St. Gregory go on turning out “enormous”
quantities of it annually ? While the poor
devils down Collingwood way and up at
Waterloo, spend all their wages in Castle-
maine swipes and Toohey’s XXX, the
beer-makers are paying 25 per cent, dividend.
Some of the priests warn their flocks against
going into public-houses—whether they be leased
from Fitzgerald or TooHEY—and to eschew both
Castlemaine and XXX, and, in the meantime,
Fitzgerald and Toohey go on turning out
“ enormous ” quantities daily, to meet the re-
quirements of Patrick O’Hooligan, of Botany
Road, and Michael M'Gilligan, of Wellington-
street. We are anxious about the immortal souls
of the Gregorian nobility. When the Rev.
M‘Enroe went over from Balmain to Collingwood
the other day, to preach sobriety and abstinence
to the Flatites, he should have taken tram to visit
the knights of the City Road brewery, and asked
them to stop making beer or return their
spurs to the Pope ! Either that, or sug-
gest that the 25 per cent, dividend should
go for the relief of women and children
reduced to starvation by O’Hooltgan or M'Gilli-
gan aforesaid spending their weekly wages in long
beers. “We’re doing an enormous business,'
says Knight Fitzgerald. “ I grieve to hear it,”
says Archbishop Carr, to himself, like. “ Beer
has got me into the British peerage,” says Fit/
gerald. “And, bad luck to me, it has got me
into gaol,” says Timothy O’Kalligan. “You
needn’t get dhrunk if you don’t like,” says the
proprietor of the swipes-foundry. “No, bad luck
tome, I needn’t,” rejoins Patrick O’Rafeerty ;
“but why the divil do you make the beer and put
it in me way and tempt me?” Can the R.C-
Church afford to preach uncompromising cold-
water, or is it founded on a rock from which
gushes a spring of tanglefoot ? Are you listening,
Cardinal Moran ?
An Indictment of Calico-Jemmyism.
The Bulletin quotes the subjoined from a letter
which lately appeared in the Sydney daily press.
Read in conjunction with and in the light of the
specious and circumstantial statements of the
police that vagrancy and homelessness do not
exist to any great extent in that city of Importers
and Distributors, Bankers and Pawnshops, which
fattens on the country of sheepwalks and land-
monopolists—read in this light, we say, the revela-
tions made constitute a tremendous and sensational
impeachment of the Foreign-trade system under
which workless artisans and labourers have to
loaf about in hunger, awaiting the expenditure by
Government of borrowed money, and listening to
tlie callous doctrine that it is more holy for the
State to let men die like fluky sheep than to pro-
vide work for them in times of dire emergency.
Two Freetraders and two Protectionists, anxious
to ascertain the truth, last week undertook an
all-night tour in the Sydney parks, with a view
of beating up the unemployed who sleep in the
open air: —
being early, os our guide informed us, and noticing
dozens trooping through the Domain gates, we decided to
visit the city night refuges for men, thereby giving the
poor fellows time to get settled. Our first call was at the
Francis-street refuge, which had its full complement, viz.,
41. Then we proceeded to the City Refuge and Soup
Kitchen in Kent-street, but were refused the information
we sought. We then bore away to the Sydney Domain
with anything but kind recollections of our visit to the
City Night Refuge. lam led to believe there are beds for
130 in the institution. We entered the Domain opposite
Woolloomooloo lockup, and divided into two parties,
beating up on either side of the path to a meeting-place
at the lodge where our total stood 43. From there we
went along the wall behind the Hospital and Mint, round
the Technological Museum and under the trees to the
right. Up to here our total stood 129, amongst whom we
had a poor fellow in the last stages of consumption and
one paralysed on one side, also a lawyer who wished us
thoroughly to understand that it was his first night in
the Domain, but had walked about the previous two nights.
Here we divided into two parties, one taking round the
Art Gallery down to the fence and round to the cress
roads, the others round to the Macquarie-street gates and
down the road past the Garden Palace Park to the Outer
Domain, when our total stood 225. Here we met a very
heavy shower, lasting about 15min., from which we
received a good wetting, as the trees do not afford much
shelter. Then one party took tike road past the baths,
while the other took the road past the Botanical Gardens,
making our way round to Lady Macquarie’s Chair, where
our total stood 305, thence round under the cliffs facing
the breastworks running down to the Botanical Gardens,
which finished the Domain, giving 1 a total of 474, including
one in Phillip Park. We proceeded down to Fort Mac-
quarie then. We found amongst the logs seven, two of
whom were fishing, explaining that they were trying to
catch a breakfast* Our next visit was to the French
mail-boat wharf, where we found stuck amongst
machinery, in tanks, and under new locomotives
25. But our greatest single haul was yet to come,
at the Circular Quay shed, opposite McMahon’s bonded
stores, to which there is a special constable, who was most
courteous and furnished us with some important informa-
tion, he explaining that he had to be constantly on the
alert for fear of fire, especially when he had wool in the
shed, for then, said he, we have often as many ns 400, the
wool being softer and warmer than the stone caves and
wet grass. In this place alone we counted no less than
134 lying in every imaginable position-time, 3.25 n.m.
We next proceeded to a deserted coal-yard just off Mac-
quarie-place. Here, in a loft, we found four. From
here we went to Hyde Park, all feeling pretty well done-
up. It was here we met by far the saddest cases time,
4.5 a.m. On one of the stools sat a man only a fortnight
out of Little Bay Hospital, where he had been for five
weeks suffering from rheumatism, who, through laying
out for the past week, had brought on the old complaint,
one leg he was unable to move. Alongside sat his wife
with a child at the breast, whom, when we came up, the
mother was suckling. The wife explained that they had
sat there for nights depending on charity. Said she, The
police are very good they never Interfere with us ; but now


Disraeli’s brother Ralph, is made a peer, with a
view to continue the title of Beaconseiwld in his
son Coningsby, Dizzy's nephew, named after the
successful novel. Mrs. Disraeli was made
Viscountess Beaconsfield 1868, died 1872, when
the title became extinct, until Disraeli was made
Earl 1876, died 1881. Young Oodlingsby— we
mean Coningsby —has been making some speeches,
showing himself at least as good as that shadow
of a shade, Herbert Gladstone, - whom the Grand
Old Man has to keep chained-up to the. bed-post.
The cleverest statesman’s son of this century was
Amhkrley, son of. Lord John Russell, but, un-
fortunately, he died even before Little John.
Gladstone’s progeny ate dreadful-Respectables—
in intellect. Most geniuses have no progeny,
which is fortunate, for as a rule their descendants
come out about equal totheVictori ans—m Wind son
We mean good litt’e T.i’mmv. and Alfred; and
’Thixy— but Alice was exceptional, a real brainy
one. And the angels took her.
the old man can’t move and 1 want to get him into the
hospital.’*’ Mr. Norman very kindly sent him up a pair of
crutches with which he was enabled to crawl as far as that
institution, when he was admitted, Mr. Salsbury attend-
ing with him. In Hyde Park we counted 71. We next
visited the two tram-sheds, one in Elizabeth-street, the
other in Liverpool-street, in which we counted 13, all
claiming the proud distinction of being unemployed, with
one exception. We did not have time to visit the vicinity
of the George-street markets and Moore Park, where, we
are informed, there are a great many more. The grand
total of those we found homeless was 768, including 41 in
the Refuge.—Yours, &c., H. C. Oato. We, the under-
signed, are prepared to swear that, having read this
letter, we declare the. contents to be true in every par-
ticular,— Henry Brown, John Salisbury, junr„ temper-
ance missionary ; R. T. Norman.
It will be seen that these figures corroborate those
incur article headed in a “Search for the Shelter-
less, ” wherein the number unearthed was 383, and
in which the writer stated that further search on
a more suitable night would at least double the
number.
———-♦
The Australian Promised Land.
An Australian Republican Association has been
formed at Charters Towers, Queensland, with the
following comprehensive platform :
“ That while declaring the following to be the funda-
mental principles and aims of the Association, and while
conscious that no reform can give effective and permanent
relief to labor that does not involve the legal recognition
of equal rights to natural opportunities, we, nevertheless,
as measures of relief from some of the evil effects
of ignoring those rights, favour such legislation as may
tend to reduce the hours of labour, to prevent the em-
ployment of children of tender years, to avoid the compe-
tition of convict labour with honest industry, to secure the
sanitary inspection of mines. Universal suffrage and
Triennial Parliaments. A direct tax oh land values, irre-
spective of improvements. We also desire to simplify the
procedure of our Law Courts, and diminish the expenses
of legal proceedings, that the poor may be placed upon
an equality with the rich, and the long delays which now
result in scandalous miscarriages of justice may be
prevented. Abolition of capital punishment. Austra-
lia for the white man. Complete, general, technical,
and professional education. That the Government
issue all money wdthout the intervention of banks
Mining Boards and inspectors to be elected by. the people.
That no foreign labourers be allowed to accept employ-
ment, or employers be allowed to employ such labour, at
rates of w*ages below the Trades Union rates fixed for
their trade. We call upon all who seek the emancipation
of labour, and wha would make Australia a democratic
commonwealth of free and independent people, to join
with us in organising a party on this broad platform of
national rights and equal justice. In support of the
above we solicit the co-operation of all patriotic citizens
who, sick of the degradation of politics, desire by consti-
tutional methods to build up the Republic of the Southern
Seas, to establish justice, to preserve liberty, to extend
the spirit of Australian nationality, and* to elevate
humanity. The nationalisation of the land, which should
not be alienated, but should be leased. That the Associa-
tion should be opposed to any Australian legislator
accepting a title from the Imperial Government.
With reference to the clause above referring to
convict-labour, there is a tendency on the part of
most workers to consider that the man who is
imprisoned has lost all human rights and is the
mere property of the Government under whose
laws ho has been imprisoned for their protection.
This not so. If it be necessary to isolate certain
units, their support becomes obligatory on the
community from whence they are isolated, and,
mere treadmill labour being degrading, that they
shall be productively employed is advisable. That
the produce of prisoners thus employed should
conflict with that of free labourers is unavoidable
and part of the price to be paid for their isolation.
But were they free they would then also be com-
petitors, and the only restriction necessary is to
legislate so that prison products shall not be sold
beneath ordinary market values. Otherwise, the
manifesto of the Charters Towers Republicans fur-
nishes a fairly representative basis of Federation,
and if Pahkes would only advocate such a policy,
he would draw three-fourths of the country after
him and sit, eventually, as Chairman at the first
convention of the United States of Australia.
But, as an old German friend said to us the other
day—“ You vill do no goot until all your olt
men are det. Pahkes is your Moses, anyvay
he vants you to dink he is. Yell, so long as
Mosesh live, de Israelites vander mitout boots
in de desert, und venever de olt geeser die,
they strike bump against de Promised Lant
und milk mit honey. So mit Pahkes, Gillies
und all them olt roosters; you vill vonder on in
de vilderness of Imperial connection that plossoms
mit fine, larsch deficits und shvindles und Yinsor
uniforms till they die out, und then, und not till
then, vill de great, de grand, de glorious Austra-
lian Republic unfolt her vings over de sunny
waters auf de laughin’ Pacific.”
- ♦
Is there a Post-Office Kettle?
When it was asserted that the correspondence of
Irish Delegate Deasy had been tampered with in
the New South Wales post a two-h.p. howl of pro-
test went up from every blatant defender of “ Law
and Order,” and the Postmaster-General nearly
went into hysterics at such blasphemy on the
sanctity of the mails being permitted in a com-
munity that hangs somebody or other any time a
moonstruck female feels herself not quite sanctified
enough. But it’s pretty hard for a person with a
bad habit to hide it altogether as Tom Jones
found to his cost when his fine ladyfied beggar
wench quarrelled at cards and loudly invited her
aristocratic opponent to do something not con-
sidered etiquettical in refined society. So the
New South Wales Post-office authorities have
.badly given themselves away in their vain-glorious
bragging of the steps taken to catch up with
Allpress, the Melbourne bank-thief. We are
innocently and semi-officially informed that :
It was known that Allpress had relatives in Sydney,
and their house was placed under strict surveillance, while
letters franked to tne Sydney address were rigidly in-
spected.
*T ust so! Rigidly inspected! Steamed open, read
and sealed up again ?—is that the kind of sanctity
of the mails which obtains in this year of our Lord ?
We hope the New South Wales Postmaster-
General can explain it as satisfactorily as he did
the Deasy case. That will please him and won’t
hurt anybody, simply because everybody with an
atom of general information in an averagely thin
skull suspects that no post-office is really com-
plete without a table-stove and a kettle. New
South Wales isn’t the only place where letters are
“rigidly inspected” on occasion, but through its
dostn >ss to New Caledonia, and the experience its
postal spies got when assisting the French police to
checkmate the efforts made to secure the escape
of political prisoners from Noumea, has given it
a bit of a start as compared with other parts of
Australia. “ Rigid inspection ”is an old dodge,
anyway, as hoary as sin and as rotten as the Im-
perialism it is a part of. Mazzini’s letters were
opened in the British post-office during the time
he was plotting for Italia Irredenta ; this was
proved, and there are hundreds of similar cases in
winch the suspicion is only short of legal proof.
Nor does it matter a brass farthing that letters
‘rigidly inspected ” belong to Melbourne bank-
thieves or political agitators, A post - office
system so police-ridden and trust-betraying as to
permit infringement of the mails under any pre-
text isn t likely t«> draw a fine line, not* are its
Officials likely to be blessed with an exuberant
sense of honour. If a suspected bank-thief’s
letters, age stejimeif open, a woman’s love-letters
aren’t any safer ; if' political lettbrS are to be spied
into, a merchant’s request for time might as well*
be posted up Outside The Bulletin office. Who-
ever infringes the mails, against even a thief or
murderer, attacks the democracy; whoever per-
mits such infringement, no matter for what,
motives, commits a public crime.
:
Fictions versus Pacts.
“ England’s commerce is more than that of the
United States and France, or Germany combined,
and very nearly as great as the commerce of the
three together.” Thus saith Sydney Evening
News with its usual refreshing ignorance of, or
indifference to, facts. The writer (a Foreign-trade
member of Parliament) loses sight altogether of
internal trade and deals wholly with imports and
exports, oblivious apparently that the internal
trade of America, France, and Germany is much
greater than the external. For example, to quote
Carnegie, whose statement has never been dis-
proved :—“ The home commerce of America
as compared to her foreign, is as twenty
one to one ; and even Britain’s gigantic
foreign commerce is only one-sixth as great
as the home-commerce of America.” It must
not be forgotten, moreover, that Britain is
a mere manufactory, that her exports do not
by any means wholly represent home-products,
nor do her imports always represent articles for
home-consumption. For example, she imports
largely gold and wool from Australia which again
figure boldly on the statistics as exports in the
form of sovereigns and woollen goods, and so with
numberless articles from every quarter of the
world. Dealing, however, solely with the posi-
tion advanced by our contemporary, it re-
quires little statistical research, nor will
it occupy much space to prove that the
figures are notoriously incorrect. The statis-
tical returns for ’BB show that the total exports
and imports of Germany were £324,827,000 ; of
the United States, £293,296,000; of France,
£290,545,000, showing a total of £908,668,000; or,
if the external commerce of Germany and
America be combined, £618,123,000; while that of
the two Republics in combination amounts to
£583,841,000; as contrasted with the £557,436,000
of the United Kingdom. We are weary of ex-
posing these blunders and misrepresentations,
especially when exposure never by any chance
leads to retractation.
The death of the Sultan of Zanzibar is announced
by cable. Personally, we did not know this poten-
tate, but for all that we feel inclined to put The
Bulletin office into mourning for him. A man
who would not bear the ignominy of living longer
than a few days after Her Gracious Majesty
Queen Victoria had been pleased to confer the
title of C.M.G. on him is a man, although a
coloured one, worthy of every respect. Our own
members of that unholy order stagger along and
grow sleek, but a full-blooded nigger pines away
and dies. Only one thing could happen that
would make us cease to regret him, and that is,
that our C.M.G’s. would at once follow his ex-
ample. Should they do so the Sultan of Zanzibar
will not have died in vain.
Electric lighting spurts ahead in Melbourne. A
big company under Professor Kernot, has secured
ground for a factory of electricity, on Yarra Bank,
between Richmond and Prahran, the ambition
being to oust the gas company in both these
suburbs. To the surprise of everyone, Prahran
has unanimously resolved on authorising the
Electric Company to put up its posts all over this
vast suburb, and also to light the local Town Hall
and Public Library. This is the most noteworthy
step yet made in electric lighting in Australasia.
Town Clerk Fitzgibbon is a foe of the Metro-
politan Gas Co., his views being that the rate-
payers themselves ought to own all the gas-works,
as in Manchester, in visiting which city, some
years ago, Fitz. was tremendously impressed with
its perfection of government, under that model of
Town Clerks, Sir T. Heron —the news of whose
death came by last mail. The electric companies
made some unsuccessful splashes in corporation-
lighting in Melbourne, but they are gathering up
their forces for the charge again. It is anticipated
that Melbourne will soon glitter with the pale but
healthy light, in place of the comparatively muddy
gas.
♦
The grand reference-book on Labour is “ Les
Ouvriers,” by M. Lavollee, who has put out two-
large volumes, and will follow them with others,
dealing exhaustively with France, Germany, Aus-
tria, Russia, Belgium, Italy, England, the United
States, Australia, &c. This is the kind of history
one wants —the whole chronicle of strikes and the
upheavals to which the slave Labour has been
forced to resort against the tyrant Capital. Why,
it was criminal, up to a very recent date, for
Labour to combine at all. Dock-chairman Nor-
wood (who neutralised the PuiMSOLL-mark ’enact-
ment by securing the passage of a clause giving
shipowners the privilege of placing the mark-line
wherever they choose !) was dictator a few years
back. Strikers went straight to prison, and so
the Norwoods would deal with them now if they
dared, for their fangs have only been laboriously
extracted, like those of the Inquisition. Vigilance,
eternal Vigilance, is the price of Liberty. Bis-
marck used to coquet with the Socialists, but the
Regicide members of the party choked him off
and he went in for immense schemes of State
Labour Insurance, and all those things, on the
principle that Codlin is the friend, not Short—
the Emperor, not Karl Marx. The International
Labour Congress is his idea, not Emperor Wil-
liam’s. The French International is more of a
practical, tangible thing for the combination of
the labour of the whole globe. The English
Labour Congresses, heretofore, have been poor,
timid, half-and-half things. The German ’Em-
peror thinks he can summon a Congress and then
prescribe exactly what line it shall take—no
Socialists need apply. No, this Labour Congress
is to bo one of benevolent German barons, dukes,
priests, and professors. Bunkum !
+
Anything more wicked cannot be imagined than
the conspiracies to overturn the French Republic,
triumphantly verifying the dictum of Thiers that
“ the Republic is that form of government which
divides us least.” The Republic was irresistibly
founded on the rock by the great French Revolu-
tion, and the empires and kingships since have
been ephemera. The Orleans family might have
its brief day, Boulanger his, but the nation would
soon swing back to the Republic, which, besides,
is supported by Bismarck, He knows very well
that any kinesbijii emperorship nr dictatorship in
France would have t > play the card of war with
Germany. La Jtipuhliqur, e’est la Paix.
THE FEDERATION CONFERENCE.
A Peep at the Third Day’s Business.
Many years hence, when the mortal remains of
Parkes occupythebest sarcophagusinhisownState
Dead-house, when Baron Oarington is a wrinkled
octogenarian with great-grandchildren playing bo-
peep around his venerable but gouty legs, and
Egeson’s three-years’ drought is but a faded, arid
memory of the past, it is possible that an
enlightened Australian Republic will think not
unkindly of a certain Federation Conference held
in the Victorian Legislative Council Chamber
during February, 1890. History will record bow
thirteen loyal individuals, sickbed o’er with the
pale cast of prolonged official refreshment, made a
respectable pretence of performing business on that
occasion. And the fact that they accomplished
nothing in particular will be forgiven on account
of the further fact that nobody expected anything
of them at the time. History may be trusted to
mention that, when the first Conference decided
to admit the “ public ” into their council-chamber,
the public evinced no burning desire to enjoy this
eventful privilege. A disconsolate array of press-
men had to roll into the gallery at duty’s call. A
handful! of M.sL.A. and half-a-dozen professional
aspirants for notoriety (chiefly of the A.N.A.
order) took up prominent positions in the audi-
torium. The stray rustle of a serious-minded
lady’s skirt might be heard as she readjusted her-
self in one of the jury-box arrangements from
which a full view of the ceremony was obtainable.
But as for the real “public”—well, about two
score of ’em sauntered in to hear the inaugural
motion proposed. They were an especially
frowsy-looking lot of public, without much boot
worth mentioning. When Parkes suggested that
the colonies were panting for “ an early union
under the Crown,” they expressed their disgust
or indifference by expectorating tobacco-juice upon
the sacred floor. There was no Federative en-
thusiasm among the Melbourne public.
* * *
As the Conference dragged on from day to day
—never putting in more than four hours’ talk, in-
tersected by 45 minutes for luncheon—there was
no perceptible increase in the quantity of public,
but its quality improved. Perhaps the estimable
Mr. Jenkins, who appeared to be Sergeant-at-
Arms, or head waiter, or chief Black Rod ehucker-
out, gave orders that nobody was to be admitted
unless he had been decently soled and heeled.
More likely the great unwashed turned up the
Conference of their own accord. It was, without
question, most comdemnedly slow. Not entirely
absurd, like that blatherskite gathering of the
Natives a few weeks previous ; nor wanting in the
outward visible signs of the great national event
it might have been. Rather let the ceremony be
described as a majestic inducement to slumber, to
which narcotic influence “Timotheus” (of the
Argus) did testify. When proceedings—accord-
ing to Tim. in his revered organ—had attained a
level of excellence that Australia might indeed be
proud of, he was placidly dozing the brilliant hours
away in a corner of the gallery, with his legs along
the seat and his back against the wall. It was
during Mr. Bird’s speech, on Wednesday morning,
that the watchful commentator took his nap. A
little Conference went a long way with “Timo-
theus,” and he availed himself of any brief lull in
the brilliancy to give his wearied spirit rest.
* * *
Gillies, sitting solitary in his royal pavilion im-
mediately under the Press, has a wily habit of
sleeping with his eyes open. He looks a paunchy,
self-satisfied little potentate, perched on the pre-
sident’s chair, and overshadowed by a carved
canopy, whereon the lion and unicorn maintain
their preposterous struggle for the Crown. Good
old Crown ! When Australia has a Federal House
that lion and unicorn will find their occupations
gone for ever, and a quantity of gilded baubles are
likely to be sold as relics o f our present dark age.
One cannot avoid feeling a sort of compassion for
little Gillies, asleep though he may be. His skin
is shiny from the effects of picnic potations, and
he would dream so much better if he might twine
a wet towel round his aching skull. Moreover, a
thoroughly satisfactory snooze is out of the ques-
tion. At the approach of luncheon-hour Mr.
Jenkins, or some other weird official object,
walks a tip-toe up to the President’s chair and
says “ Ts-s-s !” Whereupon the senses of Gillies
are partially awakened, and he mumbles forth
something about the Conference adjourning until
a quarter to 2. It is pleasant to see how they all
bolt off to the next little banquet, smacking their
lips by the way. .
* # *
The debating portion of the Legislative Council
Chamber resembles the saloon of a large steamer
—broad, springy, uninterrupted couches along
each side, and a couple of tables down the centre.
Alfred Deakin sits at the near end of the couch
on Gillies’ right hand, not near enough to arouse
his chief with the necessary “ Ts-s-sbut in a
convenient situation for exchanging winks when-
ever the great man’s eyelid isn’t in a condition of
lethargic fix. Deakin is the beau ideal of an
earnest young man, and he has those black, pierc-
, ing eyes always associated with weak sight. He
■can look into your soul, but he can’t read
small print without glasses. None would take the
smart, black-haired, pointed-bearded master of
chin-music to be a Spiritualist. Yet, as a matter
of fact, Deakin is with difficulty restrained from
arranging a seance for the Conference and getting
the other 12 delegates to sit round the largest
table until the spirits started rapping. Next to
Deakin is “ Honest Tom ” Playford, a fine, large,
grey man, who has weighed the Conference and
found it short of common-sense. He and Df.
Cockburn having had their say, want to get back
to Adelaide. Cockburn is the rather city-clerk-
like individual on Playford’s right (for the Rele-
gates roost in pairs) and was evidently not de-
signed for a ladies’ doctor, although still in the
“thirties” probably. He is apt to smile when
any speaker lets off a miserable caricature of a
joke, which is a sign of weakness. Conference
jokes are on an intellectual par with Sir ’Enry’s
poems.
# # *
Two or three yards of crimson couch divide the
South Australians from M‘Millan and Parkes.
Perky little Mac. has but this moment concluded
a sonorous sermon rounded off by a beautiful
'benediction on the Conference fordoing “Some-
thing great for the future of Australasia.” One
feels sorely tempted to shriek “ Amen ” when the
N.S.W. Treasurer brings his portion of the service
to a close. Mac. has a more entirely unlovable
■ aspect than any other performer, save Gillies. He
looks like a man who uses the blessed Book as a
stepping-stone to success in business —as if he
would pray for his rivals, in the words of the
aged Gunnion, “Lord, forthve them, and take
their trade away.” That’s how M‘Millan im-
presses a gallery stranger who knows nothing of
his history, and is looking upon his smug smirk
for the first time. . . Parkes undoubtedly! is
. the. lion - .of tile show, maaehj on account of his
senile propensity for cheating the barber. After
a careful scrutiny of his nose public opinion decides
that The Bulletin has been unduly flattering
Parkes all these years, while a whispered conjec-
ture as to what kind of thing he would be in a
bald and clean shaven state, makes the strongest
reporters turn pale. Parkes is not liappy on this
Wednesday forenoon. A sense of abject failure
is evident in every restless contortion of his long
legs that are so heavy to lift since the inaugural
banquet. The old man doesn’t feel well. He
knows how meaningless is ninety-nine per cent, of
the talk in which he must needs feign an absorbing
interest. Sometimes he relieves his cramped hand
by pottering to the table and pretending to hunt
for papers in a red-covered box. He has put no
papers in the box and lie takes none out of it.
Emblematical of the Conference is that red-
covered delusion. Quite empty.
# * #
Captain Russell and Sk* John Hall, sitting at
the further end of the right-hand coneft, just under
one of the jury-boxes, scarcely trouble to hide
their fatigue. The Captain has already declared,
and the Knight will shortly intimate, that New
Zealand desires to keep out of the hurly-burly at
present. The Captain parts his dark hair in the
centre and presumably has an eye for a pretty
woman. As there are no pretty women in the
chamber he directs his far-away gaze on space.
He is New Zealand Minister of Defence and may
be supposed to look sufficiently warlike in uniform.
Sir John Hall (who subsequently drops on Mr.
McMillan for being too assertive) excites no par-
ticular interest, but seems to be a nice, patriarchal,
tired, little K.C.M.G.
# # *
The rather imposing B. S. Bird is delivering a
flabby harangue immediately to the left of Gillies,
who snores internally meanwhile. In days gone
by the Tasmanian Treasurer used to expound
Scripture in the Congregational interest, and his
countenance still glows with the fire of terewth.
Bird remains a somewhat handsome old lady,
but after about ten minutes of him one feels that
the Chureh is his proper place. He would make
such a restful shepherd. Clark, the stable-com-
panion of this good man, is comparatively young
and wears a beard that seems to be golden as he
sits writing at the table. Clark writes very hard
and fast and the inference is that he is dashing
off a letter to his friends at home, full of joyous
details of the Federation feeds. What else should
he be writing about ?
* * *
A sunburnt, explorer kind of person, with
stubbly iron-grey moustache and uncultivated
whiskers is Sir James Lee Steere, from W.A.
The Conference doesn’t trouble him, or his colony,
to any great extent, so he just crouches there on
Mr. Bird’s left, with a grim determination not to
laugh. Slightly altered and adapted, Lee Steere
might sit for a portrait of Dr. Livingstone. He is
a striking contrast to his neighbour, Sir Samuel
Griffith, the most refined, not to say supercilious-
looking delegate on the corroboree. There is not
much breadth of style about Samuel, but he is just
the kind of personage with whom the fair-sex are
glad to be seen in public. He wears patent-leather
shoes and sticks out his feet in a “ do-you-notice-
ray-instep ? ” sort of way. It is his special mis-
fortune to be seated right opposite to Parkes, a
cu-cumstance calculated to engender supercilious-
ness in the tenderest bosom. Every time Sir
’Airy shakes his ridiculous locks a cloud of con-
tempt passes across Sir Samuel’s weary face. The
other K.C.M.G. bores him. Macrossan completes
the list of delegates. He is a pocket-edition of
Moses and would go well in double-harness with
Sir John Hall, the patriarch facing him on the
opposite couch. At the moment of this sketch
Macrossan meditates a fervid appeal for Federa-
tion, on a basis as democratic as he dare suggest
in the presence of such pillars of the British Con-
stitution as Duncan Gillies, the lion, the unicorn,
and the Crown. A very young old man is
Macrossan —a real, good nationalist, apparently,
like the other Moses, May he live long, and
never carry the brand of St. Michael and St.
George.
* * #
The Conference enjoyed the generous patronage
of the Press, as already mentioned. Especially
did it afford local daily journals much dreary
pleasure to devote about half their space to full
reports, notes, and leaders on a discussion which
might well have been boiled down into two
columns of synopsis. That array of shorthand -
writers was a spectacle inspiring a hope that the
day is not far distant when all official
cackle will be reproduced from Edison’s
phonograph simply by turning a handle. Far
better for the comps, to set up a Conference
in type at the machine’s dictation, than for
Christian men to sit in a row in a gallery and
splash down other people’s platitudes on bits of
paper. The present humiliating system has its
picturesque features, however. Such a feature is
Cunningham, of the Argus, who glares at his
myrmidons from a special private box in the
gallery. He has a noble-benign-bull-dog head-
piece, has Cunningham, even nobler and more
benign than that of George Musgrove, the
Triumvir, whom he resembles. If one of the
junior Argus scribes paused to scratch his head,
Cunningham would give a warning growl, and the
offender would put up his two fore-paws in
.an attitude of supplication. Other chiefs of
other newspaper staffs are there in full war-paint.
Were they not present to watch the Conference
that historical jaw might degenerate into a mere
chicken and champagne struggle, with skittles to
follow. Let us thank Providence that the immor-
tal 13 decided to admit the Press. It is the
mighty power of the Press which keeps these
affairs respectable. All is peace outside the
Council Chambers, save for three printer’s devils
playing pitch and toss on the staircase leading to
the Press Gallery. There are no knots of excited
citizens gathered in the corridors and stately ves-
tibules and places. No populace waiting on the
steps of Parliament House to know how the Con-
ference is getting on, and nothing to betoken that
anybody cares a dump as to how much history is
being manufactured by the baker’s dozen of
George Washingtons aforesaid.
E. FISHER.


TOMMY’S GHOST.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
Tommy came back from the township full to the
chin, and, in addition, brought two bottles of rum
with him. He began to talk long before he got in
sight of the hut, where he lived with George, another
stockman, and old Ben, who cooked for them.
So reprehensibly careless was he in getting off his
horse when he did arrive that only for the pre-
sence of mind of old Ben the two bottles would
assuredly have been smashed. Ben, however,
thoughtfully saved the bottles and let Tommy
fall, instead of doing as a new-chum would have
done—saving Tommy and letting the bottles fall.
George took the saddle off his horse, and Tommy
subsided on to his bunk and went off smiling
peacefully.
“Doesn’t seem to have touched them,” said
Ben., examining the two bottles carefully, whilst
George got a couple of pannikins.
“ I expect he had another one with him,” sug-
gested George, after they had taken a swill at the
water-bag and each had sighed deeply.
“ What! and drank the whole blessed lot of it!”
cried Ben, with an air of the deepest and most
awful disgust.
George nodded. “ Think he’d have come all
the way without a nip?” he retorted, with convic-
•on in his voice.
Ben looked more than convinced. “ The mean
little dog !” Hang it all, we’ll run his track back
in the morning to make sure. Perhaps he dropped
the other bottle,” he added, hopefully. George
shook his head as he refilled his pannikin and
passed the bottle to Ben. “ Might be some left in
it, perhaps,” ho hazarded.
Then they both sat down for a while, tilled
their pipes and looked with disdain on the snoring
culprit.
Presently Ben got the tea ready, and after an
appetiser the two sat down to their meal. In the
middle of it Tommy woke up and demanded a
drink, and George promptly supplied him with
water. But this was not all to Tommy’s taste,
—rum was what he wanted.
The two looked doubtfully at each other : such
a pity to waste good liquor on a man incapable of
appreciating it. Then
Ben rose to the oc-
casion. He took the
rum-bottle and poured
a mere trifle in a pan-
nikin, then he put in
a fair allowance of
cold tea from a billy
that had been stand-
ing since dinner-time.
Tommy drank it and
was content, there
was the colour and
smell of rum about it,
and that was enough;
he subsided again.
After the decks had
l>een cleared George
and the cook sat down
to a game of euchre,
and were just enjoy-
ing the first mp out
of the second Dottle
when Tommy com-
menced to make him-
self a nuisance again,
and this time no
amount of cold tea
would satisfy him.
“ Hang the little
beggar ! ” said George
at last, after putting
him back in his bunk
fur the third time;
“ I'll tic him down.”
“ That’s it,” said
Ben, “then we can
have our game in
peace. ”
George got the
gren - hide leg - rope
and lietween them
they took two good
turns right round
Tommy, bunk and all,
pinioning his arms to
his side. Having
made all fast with
two half-hitches they
returned to their un-
finished game, leaving
Tommy to howl and
swear horribly, of which permission he took the
fullest advantage.
“ What do you say ?” said Ben when they wei’e
about to turn in, and he meditatively regarded tho
last half of the second bottle which they had agreed
to keep until the morning ; “ shall wc give him
one and then untie him?” Tommy had been
quiet for some time and George looked at him
critically.
“He might be foxing, you know, and get up
when we were asleep and' polish all this off, no
matter where we plant it.”
“ And if he didn’t find it he might get tho
horrors and knock one of us on the head when wo
were asleep,” said Ben.
“Justso. I’ll stop awake and untie him in
about an hour’s time,” suggested George.
This they both agreed was the very best plan,
but, unfortunately, the rum was potent, and,
although George meant to stop awake to watch
Ben iii order to see he didn’t tap the morning's
supply, and Ben meant to do the same with Bob,
they had no sooner laid down than both were fast
asleep at once and the sun up an hour before they
awoke.
“ Tommy’s very quiet,” said Ben, “ look how
he’s twisted his head over the bunk ?”
George went over to him, lifted his head back,
and untied the leg-rope ; then, his eyes having
got some of the sleep out of them, lie looked a
little closer
“ Yow !” he yelled, “ He’s dead ! ”
“Be hanged I’’ - roared George, rushing over.
There was no doubt about it, and the unfortunate
little fellow must liave died of apoplexy.
# # *
One looked piteously at the other, and then, with
shaking hands, they sought out the half bottle, and
after a couple of stiff drinks felt a little more
courage. The next question was, what was to be
done?
Go into the head station and report, and say
nothing about the rope business. Agreed nem.
con.
Georg© went down the paddock for a couple of
horses, and Ben carefully waited outside tho hut
until he returned. Then they saddled up and
started to ride in the ten miles leaving poor Tommy
dead on the bunk.
Naturally there was consternation at the head
station, and the super, who was a J.P., started
back with the two survivors, accompanied by a
iackcroo who owned a prayer-book, to inspect and
inter poor Tommy. Still greater was the consterna-
te ion when they arrived M tho out-station for there
was no Tommy to inter The cor pro had dis-
appeared. In vain Ben and George pointed to
the bunk as if that was sufficient proof of Tommy’s
decease. The super, was not to be convinced; the
whole thing was a drunken spree, and in high
wrath he gave the culprits a week to clear out or
find Tommy, and departed home.
Ben and George sat and looked at each other,
and the situation was beyond them ; they smoked
sullenly till darkness came before they thought of
turning to get some tea. Then Ben went to work
to light a tire and George picked up the bucket
and went down to the creek for water.
Ben was busy fanning the smoky embers with
his hat, when he heard a yell of terror that nearly
took the roof off the hut, then came the sounds of
flying feet towards the place. Ben’s heart stood
still, but his presence of mind did not desert him.
With great pluck and promptitude he slammed
the door in the face of George and his pursuer,
and left them to fight it out outside.
In vain George beat frantically at the slabs and
appealed for help. Ben was adamant. “If the
devil takes it out of George he’ll let me off, ” he
thought. But despair made George desperate,
and he burst the door in at length and appeared
with his face full of terror and his hands full of
splinters.
“Tommy’s ghost!” was all he could exclaim,
“ tackled me at the creek and beat me up here
with a leg-rope.”
Ben trembled with horror, and they both looked
helplessly at each other. “Listen,” whispered
George, “ he’s coming !”
Steps were certainly appproaching, and, trembling
with fright, the two crouched under the furthest
bunk, which certainly was nob the one where
Tommy died. The fire had now burnt up bright
and clear and, to their horror, the hidden pair saw
the corpse of poor Tommy walk into the hut. The
apparition stalked over to the fire and, to their
added horror, they noticed that it carried a bottle
of rum under its arm. The ghost looked sternly
round, and the guilty ones wondered that it did
not hear the drops of sweat pattering off their
foreheads to the ground. At last it seemed to
find what it wanted—a pannikin—but a further
search revealed no water, and, with a sigh of
heartfelt relief, they watched it depart towards
the creek. They stole out, moist with fear and
LORD AND LADY BERTIE.
spoke in whispers. “Shall we hook it before it
comes back ?”
‘ ‘ It might catch us in the dark—”
“Ooh! here it is again,” and there in the
doorway stood the ghost, sternly contemplat-
ing them. It raised the pannikin to its lips,
drained it, and then, shaking the rum-bottle at tho
trembling couple, said, tauntingly, in sepulchral
tones: “Not one blooming drop shall you coves
have, if you’ve got your tongues out a yard for it.”
Then Ben rose to tho occasion. He always did,
He smelt the rum, and ho knew a ghost ought to
smell of brimstone.
“ It’s Tommy alive, after all! ”he cried.
And so it appeared. He had come to himself
after they left, and, inspired and upheld by a
diabolical thirst of forty alligator power, he had
followed his tracks back and found the lost bottle
full. Returning to the hut and finding no water
in it he had gone to the creek, and, after a good
swig, had fallen asleep again until aroused by
George coming down with the bucket.
They squared it with the super, somehow, but
they never trust Tommy in the township alone now.
DELCOMYN.
One of the greatest successes, both from
the standpoint of comfort and cheapness ever
made is the hammoquette chair, the Australian
agency whereof is vested in Mr. Jones, of Bridge*
street, Sydney, who advertises on the cover of this
week’s Bulletin. Within a very short while Mr.
Jones has disposed of no less than 4000 of these
delightful adjustable couches, whicii are now to
be found in all parts of the continent. In tho
torrid districts of the tropic of Capricorn alone,
over 400 have been sold to date, and more are
daily being shipped north, as strong men fight for
their possession in the Northern hotels : Speaker
Davies, who entertained the Federal Conference
the other day, and who knows what is good to eat,
drink, and lie upon, has bought no less than four-
teen ; Baronet Clarke has purchased a large supply
for his town and country houses; nearly every
doctor in the island owns one or more; and if you
put one in your office you will have to send it
away to get rid of the bores who hang round with
a view to camping on it. The hammoquette chair
is the lightest, strongest, beat-ventilated, and
moat elegant thing of the kind ever thought of in
the interests of the lazy man or the invalid. It
makes a handsome piece of furniture, and the
price is £3los.
The weekly letter of Miss Sappho Smith,
now away on a holiday, has not come to hand
for this issue.
The parachutist who, for filthy lucre
and for fame, drops, like a falling star, through
the circumnambient air, finds it necessary to
drink Marshall’s Tonic Nervine.
Notice placed near every gate on a certain
Murrumbidgee station :
Poison laid on this run
for T. SiiirßAiL,
Manager.
The word “for ” appears to have been interpolated.
He only issues a pannikin of weevils to travellers.
Two London policemen went to arrest a
man in Bermondsey who had been fined “with
the option ” for neglecting to send his boy to
school. They interviewed his wife, who told them
they were quite welcome to arrest her husband as
she could do nothing with him, and pointed out
where he was to be found. Entering the wretched
room, the constables found the man dead ! Starva-
tion !
The first words spoked by the infant King
of Spain, after the influenza had left him, were :
“ Mother, mother, do not go away from me.” We
don’t see anything especially original about that
royal request. Little Billy Smith, or Tommy
Jones, use the same terms under similar conditions,
and tlie newspapers never snivel about it. Some
papers seem to regard it as a touching circum-
stance for a sick little monarch to have a mother
at all.
The majority of the diggers on the field
were Irishmen. Said the leading storekeeper,
Mister M‘Sassenach, to a friend of his : “ Look
here, old man, I’d give you a partnership in my
business only you’re not an Irishman. An Irish
partner would bind me more closely to the boys.”
“ Well,” said the other, “I’ll tell you what I’ll
do : I’ll take the terminal ‘ O ’ off my name and
stick it in front, and then my name will be
O’Rebell. That ought to fetch ’em.”
The new recreation-gardens in connection
with Pfahlert’s Hotel, Wynyard-square, Sydney,
will be opened by the Mayor on Thursday, 20th.
There Mr. Hecht, the manager, intends to intro-
duce the Continental custom of serving drinks,
luncheons, dinners, and suppers in the open air,
while, owing to the manner in which the grounds
are closed, the strictest privacy will be preserved.
A billiard-room, with three Alcock tables, has
been opened in connection with the grounds.
The Sydney Protestant Standard, in-
veighing against the wealth of the R.O. Church,
states that “in 1780 the yearly income of the
Galliean Church was 224 million livres,” and to
this statement has stupidly added the information
that “ livro ” means pound sterling. “ Livre,” the
coin, is now known as franc, and the value of a
franc is tenpeuce. It, moreover, signifies one
pound in weight. But, of course, you could not
expect the clerical despiser of Mammon, a man
who does not know a shirt-button from a holey
thrlpney in the plate, to understand these mone-
tary values.
Fifty men and a boy inaugurated the Vic-
torian Reporters’ Association by dining together
on Saturday night, the 15th inst. President Tip-
ping held forth for half-an-honr on the aims and
objects of the V.R.A., and every journalist pre-
sent lent him his ears throughout. New South
Wales and Tasmania were represented and orated
in a truly fraternal, not to say federal, spirit. The.
presence of the aforesaid boy was somewhat of a
pill, but served one useful purpose. A decisive
blow at the system of boy-labour on the Melbourne
press is now to be dealt without further delay,
even if it lead to the withdrawal of a certain news-
paper’s staff, who are pushing him forward. The
device on the minu was recognised as appropriate
—a lyre-bird balancing on his tail a quill pen.
“Dagonefc,” in the London Referee, says
that children are regularly “ hired out ” in Ireland
to tenants who are noticed for eviction, in order
to excite sympathy. It may be so, but we doubt
it. However, _ here is a story too good to be lost,
though it is Irish. One of the wealthy English
Corporations, having large estates in Ireland and
being unable to collect tho rents, sent over a
“ really smart ” man who said he could do it. Ho
assembled the tenants, told them his mission,
condoled with them on tho dearness of things, but
said he must have the rent. “ Well, yer anner,”
said the spokesman tenant, “ things are much
althered for the worse, and I’ll give yean example.
Three years ago I could have got ye shot for a
guinea; now it’ll cost three, bajprrA “ The
“really smart man ” left.
Panjandrum Soliloquizes.
To federate or fall—-that is the question.
Whether ’twould better suit my book to dash
The aspirations of an outraged party
Or to take arms against a sea of “ Mickies,”
And, by dissolving, end them. To appeal to the
country !
A proclamation—and so the Governor ends
The heart-ache and the infamous log-rolling
Of Parliamentary life. ’Tis a consummation
Devoutly to be wished. To be M.P. no more 1
Cut off from screw and perks. Ay, there's the
rub ;
For in that interval what Duns may come,
When we have lost all touch of public coin,
Must give us pause. There’s the respect
That makes our Patriotism cling long to life,
For who would bear the whips and scorns’of Creed,.
Abigail’s harsh croak—that incubus, Pruce Smith,
The midwife, Haynes—my Crown Law officer,
And other tedious performing poodles.”
The insolence of Salomons; and the repulses
That patient wedlock takes from courtly dames.
When he himself might his quietus make
With a bare goose-quill ! Who would Farnells
bear,
Or grunt and sweat 'neath O'Sullivans and Cricks ?
But that the dread of “after dissolution,”-;;
That general election—from whose bourne
Dibbs may return in force—puzzles the will,
And makes ns rather bear the rogues we have
Than fly to others that we know not of.
Thus Freetrade does make cowards of us all,
And thus the native hue of legislation
Is sickbed o’er with “Casual Labour ” jobs ;
And weighty measures promised every session.
With this regard their .clauses turn awry
And never reach Committee. Soft you now !
The jilted President! Joe !in thy orisons
Be all my schemes remembered !
Dr. Gamin, when he made that historic
speech of his in re the ghastly fix in which the
N.S.W. Freetrade and Liberal Association now-
finds itself, must surely have thought he was
writing aS. M. Herald leader. Garran is on the
rail,
It is said that if
S r Henry Parkes ap-
peals to the country
on his Federation
scheme, Old Jack
Robertson will re-
enter public life and
lead the Freetraders,
who fear that the
adoption of Federa-
tion will result in tin-
overthrow of their
cherished fiscal policy.
Nelson P. White-
locke, secretary to the
N.S.W. grog party,
having recently beer-
accused of holding twi.
sets of opinions on the
liquor question, re-
plied that “it was
better to be accused
of havingtwoopinions
than to be charged
with having two
wives.” Nasty for
somebody.
W. H. Traill r
Walter Edmunds and
James Toohey, the
three Protectionists
who now represent
South Sydney in the
N.S Wales Assembly,
will seek re-election
when Parliament.dis-
solves, as it very, pro
bably will in May or
June-next. Four other
Protectionists—J. P,
Wright, J. B. OlittV,
John Norton, and
George Perry also
say they are deter-
mined to go to tin;
(toll. Witli seven Pro-
tectionists in the field
for four seats (the
Foreign-traders never
make such mistakes)
South Sydney—the most democratic of N.S.W.
electorates—will probably have to submit to being
represented by four Free-traders.
A little knot of back-block braves were
conversing on a country racecourse. “Tommy
the Nut ” (aboriginal king of BargowlahminO,
N.S.W.) edged in to hear what it was all about
and, perhaps, to borrow “ kikpen.” But Bill
Hassell didn't want his company. “ Clear out,
you infernal black image!” said William. ‘ 1
know you, Bill,” replied Tommy, “you call me
black image, but when Maria, my gin, come along,
you no say—‘Clear out, you black image !’ Yah!”
There has been much discussion in the
Council of the N.S.W. Typographical Association
over the application of Miss Hill, late of -the
Auckland (N.Z.) Stab, for admission to member-
ship of the Association. Miss Hill tenders the
amount of the ordinary initiation-fee and demands
to be recognised as a member on the ground tliat
she possesses duly authenticated indentures and
other credentials, and is an expert printer. She
says she wishes to work in harmony with trades-
union principles instead of unfairly competing
with union labour by accepting an engagement in
a certain non-union office which has offered her
work. The Council has not yet settled the
matter. Thk Bulletin holds that the Association
must recognise Miss Hill as a member. These
things are certain ; The association cannot afford
to commit an injustice; the groat Woman Ques-
tion is very much alive, and tire association can’t
kill it by turning Miss Hill away from their doors
and saying that no woman should be a printer,
for Miss Hill is already a printer ; thirdly, if they
don't admit the lady to membership and compete
with her on equal terms under the society’s rules,
they will have to compete with her on unequal term?
when she works outside the rules. If women and
men compete on a non-union basis, the end will
be that the masters will make both man and
wife work (as in New Zealand) for the wages that
aro now earned in Australia by the man alone.
The Bulletin is sorry to see a state of affairs
arise in which the man cannot earn the joint
living and let the wife mind the home, but
actualities must be faced and not avoided. We
strongly recommend' the association to
whether it cannot persuade Miss Hill to marry -a
whip-oompositor with a full frame on the S. M
Herald and retire from the profeestoh .mJSveii
this will ’c; but a palliative to .th*>
trouble. m '


is not a photograph, nor a photo, a ghost—but a good photo, is a
true reflection of tho original. For high-art photos, go to the
London Palace of Art, 10 Park-street, Sydney. Country photographers’ work from developeinent
to completion executed at lowest prices, bromides a speciality. Staff of artists kept, for working up.
A GHOST
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Theatre Royal. ' “ Little Lord Fauntleroy.”
Her Majesty's “My Jack.”
Criterion “ Caste.”
Cyclorama Battle of Gettysburg.
__ MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
’•Theatre Royal “ Hands Across the Sea.”
Princess’s,..., ... “Two Nights iu Koine.”
Opera House “ Begarar Student.”
Alexandra “ The World Against Her.”
Victoria Hall “The Boston Ideal Co.”
ST. George's HAll “ Muddles,” Ac.
At'hbnoku.sl Prank Lincoln.
The high encomiums bestowed by the
Sydney Press on the performance of “ Caste ” at
Sydney Criterion are well-deserved ; though the
management probably do not attach much im-'
portanoe to the commendations of the four or five
journals that habitually receive everything every-
where with indiscriminate slobber. To begin
with the ladies—the play is too well-known to
need comment or description—Pattie Brown as
Polly Ecoles is afforded her first big show, and
she takes such full advantage of it that she may
be fairly said to have made not only “ the hit ”of
her life, but also one of “ the hits ” of the season.
Lively, graceful, saucy, and bracing at all times, in
the last act her simulation of emotion was so
natural, so convincing, that she fairly melted the
house. Esther Eccles is not a typical ballet-girl,
nor does she in any way resemble the or-
dinary London household drudge; probably,
however, there are many refined stage-dancers,
many graceful “ Marthas ” of the slums.
At all events, Miss Brough undoubtedly
realised the author’s idea and had a large audience
with her all the time, making a big point in her
swooning scene at the close of the second act.
Mrs. Homer is so unvaryingly good that we need
only say that her performance of the Marquise
was quite up to sample. George Anson’s Eccles
is a remarkably fine and perfectly even perform-
ance, The “ make-up ”is a work of art, perfect
in every detail of wig and costume, while his
mobility of feature, his mastery of petty detail,
enables him to score so heavily, even when he has
least to do, that he is, when on the stage, always
the sun around which the lesser luminaries revolve
Sam Gerridge, the bustling and manly plumber
as played by Robert Brough, is a more than
cfoditable performance, and his scenes with Polly
have a marvellous freshness and spontaneity
George Titheradge’s Captain Hawtree was some
what over heavy in his opening scene oh the first
night, but he improved with every line, and like
those with whom he was associated, played his
Eart for all it was worth. Next to the Marquise
I’Alroy is the most unthankful part in the
CQinedy, but Percy Lyndal throughout is equal to
its exigencies. “Caste” will hold the boards
until the exodus of the company to Melbourne
Bijou, where they open in “ Money,” and the gap
here will be filled by “Fun on the Bristol.”
** * *
We have little fault to find with the actors
and actresses who compose the “ Lord Fauntleroy ’
Company. Grade Hopkins, who now plays the
’name-part—equal in length to Hamlet’s—is a very
clever child, graceful in action as in repose, with a
clearness of enunciation that transmits her every
syllable to all parts of the house. Ethel Win-
throp, who plays Mrs, Errol, has a fine stage-
presence and a sweet voice of some power; her
walk is stagey, however, and her inexperience
evident. Granted more favourable opportunity,
in time she will probably achieve better things.
Some of her fines are particularly nauseating—for
instance, when she says “Ceddy is not like other
boys; lam not like other mothers. ’ This is a
nice pellet to discharge the family circle or the
mothers in the stalls. We have some respect for
the lady (Mrs. Berkley) who plays Minna, the
American adventuress, chiefly because she shows
no respect for the frills and gilding of heredi-
tary privilege, and treats the spoiled child
of Fortune with just as much contempt
as the flunkey who shows her in to his
august and awful presence. The Mary of Docy
Main waring is blessed with a beautiful brogue,
too beautiful almost to be artificial. As for Henry
Edwards, who plays the Earl, we don’t think that
(our experience of earls has been small) he has
quite caught the air of insolent repose, of heredi-
tary indifference with which the titled snob
addresses those whom he considers inferior crea-
tures. Otherwise, it is a good piece of acting.
W. H. Leake plays Havisham, a solicitor with a
cast-iron hide, no self-respect, and few scruples,
very well indeed. George Leopold gets every
ounce out of Hobbs the grocer, an invertebrate
creature, weak enough to consider himself a Re-
publican without knowing why, whose American
accent is no more proof against sea sickness—he
loses it on the voyage—than his principles against
luxury and an affectation of haughtiness. As a
Bowery boot-black Mr. Nelson is good from a
slangy point of viewy and our old friend, Mr.
Gladstone, grovels delightfully as a down trodden
worm of a British farmer. The charming Olive
Berkley, now nearly recovered from the ulcerated
throat which interfered with her delivery last
week, takes up the parable again on Saturday
evening.
** * *
Harry Rickards, who opens in Brisbane on
the 22nd inst., took a bumper benefit at Sydney
School of Arts on Monday last, when the company
was assisted by Eva Leamington, the sisters
Blair, Phcebe Levy, Mabel Sylvester, Mom.
Provo, Frank Norton, and S. Gurney, the bird-
imitator. Rickards, who received a tremendous
ovation, after a six weeks’ Brisbane season, plays
for a week in Newcastle, and then visits Mel-
bourne to open a new hall with a Bourke-street
frontage, ere going to England to engage a fresh
company.
# * *
The illness of Kate Bishop during the last
few nights of “The Dream” gave Maribel Green
wood a chance to play Helena, while her place as
Hippolyta was taken by Miss Ellis, another of
Mr. Rignold’s pupils. “My Jack,”a melodrama
that has been very successful on the Surrey side,
and is now running at the Grand Opera House,
New York, written by Benjamin Landeck, an
author of tender years, will be produced at Her
Majesty’s on Saturday evening. The action of
this piece affords opportunity for some fine scenic
effects. The original plot—which Handsome
George thinks he will much improve on-runs
thus ;—A young English sailor, Jack Meredith,
who loves Dorothy Prescott, a Cornish girl, and
is supposed to have perished at sea, is the real
heir to the estate of Grayleigh Manor. In his
absence his cousin, Sir Edward Vanberg, jumps
his claim, but is kept in terror by a Greek who,
having stolen the document proving the title,
blackmails the fraudulent possessor. The papers are
hidden by the .Greek in a ruined mill, where they
are found by Dolly Prescott’s brother, a fugitive,
convict. At this critical juncture the. Greek ap-
pears. and in the struggle for the pipers the eon
vict, Prescott, is mu.dered. Suspicion falls on
Jack, who is arrested but acquitted on trial.
After the trial he obtains command of a ship in
the navy sailing for Egypt. The Greek murderer
enlists as an ordinary sotunan on the same vessel.
The story is followed up in the usual strained
method of melodrama, by bringing Jack and the
Greek together in the Egyptian desert where the
murderer confesses his theft of the papers. Jack
nurses the murderer tlirough his illness and ulti-
mately they find their way back to the Cornish
village. There the Greek kills the false claimant,
Jack is restored to his property, and Dorothy be-
comes the happy Lady Vanberg.
# df A
On Monday night last Mr. Rignold threw
open the entire gallery and part of the family
circle to considerably over a thousand delighted
“ kids,’ - who, by the kindness of certain citizens,
were regaled with buns, fru't, and sweets between
the acts. The final performance of “ Midsummer
Night’s Dream ” will take place on Friday (21st)
afternoon. The theatre will be closed on that
evening.
* * *
The new illusion, “ Anoetos,” at the
Palace Museum, is very clever, but the severed
head's “talk,” like that of the lecturer and magi-
requires “ cutting.” The scientific glass-
blowing apparatus of Mr. Woodroffe, now on
show, is an attractive sight. Mons. Provo, one of
the best jugglers we have seen, gives clever per-
formances at intervals, and Madame Cunard has
been specially engaged to sing high-class songs.
At Bondi Aquarium next Saturday Miss
Van Tassel will make (D.V.) a parachute descent
from the firm’s new balloon —at least, we mean
that she will (D.V.) reach the earth alive and in
one piece. Other novelties are laid on of various
kinds.
*
The Cyclorama is still open, and the
attendance must be good, for we are told that
another divided is about to be paid.
* * *- *-
The author of “Barnes of New York” is
responsible for “Two Nights in Rome,” a play
produced at Melbourne Princess’s last Saturday
night. This latest American novelty appears to
have been constructed on the lines of a tadpole,
which aquatic curiosity is notorious for not ful-
filling the promise of its commencement. The
first act of “Two Nights in Rome” mainly con-
sists of a wild-eyed Corsican woman (twin-sister
to Genevieve Ward’s “Forget-me-not”) who got
married to an English artist-husband out of pure
cussedness, and would probably be setting fire to
him but for the untimely apparition of a saturnine
Benedetti. This lurid compatriot is under solemn
contract to wipe out the female hyena with his
glittering stiletto, and she is reduced to dodging
behind curtains and blowing out all the candles
whenever wrathful Bennie comes in pursuit of his
prey. A quantity of • powerful absurdities are
crowded into the opening scene. The wild-eyed
lady is represented as wearing her marriage cer-
tificate next to her chest, under the old
stage impression that lawful matrimony de-
pends upon a piece of blue paper. In these days
of free education everyone knows that a marriage
certif. is of no more importance than a butcher’s
bill, because if you lose it you can always get a
copy. The butcher sees to that. Nevertheless,
these initiatory proceedings “ knocked ” a crowded
house, and the first curtain fell amidst furious ap-
plause, most of which was genuine. The rest of
“ Two Nights in Rome ” is drivel relieved towards
the extreme finish by an awkward turning-up of
the spurious Eorget-me not, after her artist has
married another girl. Benedetti also reappears,
whereupon more bo-peep business ensues, but it
has lost its thrill by this time, and as nobody gets
killed and the first marriage turns out to be no
marriage at all, the whole trouble is considered to
be a miserable false alarm. All the middle in-
terest centres in an alleged picture of the second
wife. The characters form excited mobs round
this preposterous work of art and pretend it re-
presents an angel, although they must know it is
only a distant view of three daubs and a
smudge. Miss Janet Achurch throws her soul
into the savage Corsican female with every possible
success. Her hard method has not been so well
suited by any previous character she has played
in Melbourne. Unfortunately, this strong per-
formance cannot do much more than arouse a
passing interest in a weak show. Some other
ladies are not especially remarkable, and of Messrs.
Royce, Bucklaw, Sass, Wilson, Eorbes and Hans
Phillips, the latter has best chances. Some of
them seemed to fancy that they were working at
a hopeless job on Saturday, and this idea was
endorsed by a wag in the stalls, who burst out
laughing at a tragic situation of unspeakable
idiocy.
#* * *
“Beggar Student” promises to 1111 the
Opera House fuller than it crammed the Alexandra
a few months ago, judging from the reception
accorded to the chortlers of that tuneful lay on
Saturday. All the original principals are back in
their old places, and the three ladies of noble, but
impoverished, birth scramble for one pocket-
handkerchief with that indefinable charm for
which they were remarkable on the last occasion.
Mr, Harrison again figures as conductor, and ‘‘ a
full chorus of 60” don’t look nearly as aged as the
advertisement states.
** * *
“ The World Against Her,” at the Alex-
andra, is another revival which can be trusted to
pay its way. One or two changes in the cast of
the weepful performance are of a beneficial charac-
ter, while Miss Lily Dampier’s delineation of
lovely misery has visibly matured since last time.
It is hard for such a tender blossom to be eternally
exposed to the cold blast of unjust suspicion, and
especially distressing to think that her own father
puts her out on the mat in this present instance.
When Lily finally proves her innocence the whole
frame of the theatre trembles with emotion.
* * -*- *
The Royal Pantomime is in its last throes
of agony, for on Saturday the irrepressible Charles
Warner will gush forth in “Hands Across the
Sea.” “Muddles’’and “Good Old Mary Ann ”
are reckoned to constitute a galaxy of attractions
at St. George’s Hall, the Cyclorama is still in full
blast, and some remarks about the Boston Ideal
Company may be continued in our next. This
company were let loose at the Victoria Hall on
Saturday, and immediately scored a “ phenomenal
success,” f>r some similar managerial chestnut.
* *■ * *
Frank Lincoln is likewise revived on a
scale of Surpassing splendour at Melbourne
Athenaeum. During a long ravage of . ustralia
and adjacent districts Mr. Lincoln has added to
the collection of first-class wheezes with which he
landed in our midst. He has also gathered in
the almighty dollars with constant care, but, un
like the average male animal, he doesn’t grow
dull as he waxes rich. On about 25 different oc-
casions The Bulletin has taken oath and testified
that Frank Lincoln’s humour is apparent to any
mind which soars above circus clowns, and that
he can imitate a larger variety of weird sounds
and burlesque a greater number of established
nuisances than any other six professional funny
people, dead or alive. He will mix the historic-
cocktail for a fortnight only.
* vK- # *
Walter Marnock, late baritone in chief of
the Triumvirate’s Opera Company, returned from
whence he came by the Oroya, last week.
-;ir * *
There has been a gathering; of medical
faculty at the Melbourne Waxworks, for the pur-
pose of overhauling Jun-Gun, a tawny savage with
Absalomian tresses, who was recently brought
from the interior of West Australia and instructed
in the use of bathing-costume. The medical re-
port on Jun-Gun is a complete vindication'of his
mamma’s character, and some fifteen theories ac-
counting for Jun-Gun’s pale hue, and beautiful
European hair, are all built up on foundations of
the strictest propriety. Jun-Gun is very comfort
able at the Waxworks, which he prefers to the Far
West. In his native jungle ho was restricted to
roots and stumps of trees, but now he gets square
meals and the stumps of Kreitmayer’s cigars.
Sfc vff ii?
J. C. Williamson, speaking at his little
send-off supper, in Melbourne, said, truly enough,
that his firm had setup a very high standard of
production, and were always criticised from that
standpoint. The public criticise from that stand-
point, and a truthful weekly organ, like The Bul-
letin, puts the vague general sentiment into plain
prose. But daily newspapers criticise according
to the length of a show’s advertisement, and are
always more ready to see faults in Brough and
Bouoieault than in the Firm.
vie- i',i *
Melbourne Bijou will probably not be
opened for several weeks.
i!C- viC- vff *
Mrs. James Brown-Potter told an inter*
viewer at Adelaide that Worth, who made he r
Cleopatra dresses, said they were the finest eve 1 '
put on the stage for any piece. They cost 38,000
francs. “In the asp scene about which there was
a good deal of controversy, I wore a tight-fitting
costume of pink stockingette, over this was a black
gauze. The effect was exactly what the great
master who designed it anticipated.” It is pretty
easy to see what the “great master” must have
“ anticipated ” when he made Mrs. James Brown-
Potter (who is related to a bishop) wear silk flesh-
ings under a transparent skirt! “ Great master ”
is emphatically excellent. “ I saw in the Ameri-
can press,” said the reporter, “that an incident
occurred on the first night of ‘ Cleopatra,’ which
created considerable discussion in the press.”
“Yes,” calmly answered Mrs. James Brown-
Potter, the bishop’s relation, “quite true,
but it was altogether due to a misconcep-
tion. When I applied the asp in the crisis
of the scene, I tore asunder the black gauze
as Cleopatra is supposed to do in the play, and
this gave rise to some unfavourable comment, and
many quite incorrect assertions. As a matter of
fact the pink stockingette costume closed tightly
around my throat, and was not torn in any way.”
O Modesty, thy name is pink stockingette fitting
tightly around the throat! Mrs. James Brown-
Potter says she hardly knows whether they are
going to produce “ Cleopatra ”in Australia. Oh,
yes, Mrs. James Brown-Potter, let us have “ Cleo-
patra ”-in Australia by all means.
* * * ■»
Poor Amy Sherwin has induced the cable
to announce that she recently appeared in Berlin,
as Marguerite and Valentine (“ Les Huguenots ”)
with great success. She appeared in Melbourne
with “great success,” until it became necessary
for her to ring down the curtain and file her
schedule. The Berlin story is probably founded
on very little fact, and the insinuation that Amy
will shortly be rivalling Melba is not worth dis-
cussion. The once promising “ Tasmanian night-
ingale ” has already spent the best years of her
singing life in Europe without making any sort of
reputation. When she returned to Australia, as
an alleged London “ star,” newchuras smiled at
the joke.
** * *
The houses at the Adelaide Royal to
witness the closing performances by the Solomon-
Bracy Company were something to be remembered,
every part of the theatre being packed to suffoca-
tion. Bracy made a short speech, and, although
it was a trifle disjointed, it pleased the people.
“Jolly” John Nash, of the disbanded London
Pavilion Company starts a season at Garner’s
Theatre, in an entertainment of his own, entitled.
“Be Merry and Wise.”
At Poverty Point.
At the Ballet. Little girl (fearfully): “Mamma, when
are the Indians coming on?” Mother: “Hush, dear;
there are no Indians.” Little Girl; “Then who scalped
all the men in the front seats?”
The house occupied by G. V. Brooke on his visit to
Sydney in the fifties, in Woolloomooloo-street, was after-
wards an R.C. college, and is now Dr. Chambers’ private
hospital.
The real name of the late Mr. B. N. Jones was not Jones
but Napthali. He was not ashamed of his name, nor had
he ever any reason to be, but it was an awkward stage
name, and Jones was ever so much easier for the gods to
“ holler.”
Mrs. James Brown-Potter, who arrived by the Oceana,
brings along the exclusive Australian rights of “La
Tosca,” “Theodora,” and Wills and Grover’s new play,
“ Pompadour.” Her engagement is for 20 weeks and her
costumes are designed by Worth. She is said to have
letters of introduction from royal and other personages to
governors, judges, bishops, and bankers. Kyrle will show
her the Way round. She opens in “Camille.”
A New York lad, who plays operatic airs on a blade of
grass, is said to earn £6O weekly.
Henry Edwards, of the Fauntleroy Co., boasts of being
the only man alive who has played Timon of Athens. The
Immortal William wrote 30 plays, and of those Edwards
has appeared in 29.
Dr. Onofroff, the new British thought-reader, is by far
the best of the bunch; ho manages his divinations with-
out contact, excepting a temporary touch, with the person
whose thoughts he divines.
An American writer thinks that Mrs. Brown-Potter will
establish a new school of acting in Australia, and make a
long stay.
An American journal states that, “Emily Rigl, in pre-
paring for her entrance, simply dashes on a bit of powder
and is ready for the stage.” There is a big opening in
Australia for Em.
lii the early fifties, J. L. Toole used to sing (?) a song a
the Dodger in “Oliver Twist,” of which the followin',
lines formed a part;—
“ So fare ye veil my Vitechapel b ys,
And you wots keeps a ‘ fence,’
I’m going to Horstraliar
But not at my own expense.”
He comes now at expense of W, G. and M.
“Miss Minnie Palmer complains that certain critic
have accused her of being a ‘variety’ actress. 1 ai
•sure / never did. It’s variety we want from her.”- Kxo
MSII.
The Yankees say that “ Patti is on the down grade, th
superb voice is worn out.”
Haddon Chambers has sailed for Sydney.
Fred. Younger, the comedian of the G. V. Brooke en
at Melbourne, was the original D’Alroy in “ Caste,” no\
playing at the Criterion. He was killed, as he alway
predicted he would, in a railway smash in England.
The editor of a boy’s paper, the ’Frisco Peanut (tin
by st) wrote to the manager of Woodward’s Gardens jto
a pass. He received a permit to stand outside and hea
the lions roar. Next issue of the Peanut says:—“ Wt
observed the manager of Woodward’s Gardens sunning
himself on Market-Street yesterday. We suppose. then,
are cleaning his cage.”
A theatre-manager lately said that showmen had now
to fight new and tremendous obstacles. The scandals b
the evening papers, he remarked, are too much for Hu
Theatres. People now stay at home and bathe themselves
in the filth of the divorce-court. In days gene by society
was perhaps nearly as rotten as it is now, hut there was
nobody to rake up all the muck and plaster it on to the
surface of a penny paper.
Says the New York World, in reference to Patti’s hair-
dyeing t—" For my-part, I resent the bleaching with all the
normal instincts 1 have left, A blonde ilosina is worse
than a dyed spaniel or gilded Maltese. Patti's midnight
hair was always, to the lover of the old opera forms, a
midnight that was full of dreams. She might as well
have bleached her voice or had the Italian venom of hei
eyes extracted. Her hair was an integral part of the
Patti personality which has never been scheduled. No
one has ever been able to tell exactly how much of the
charm was vocal, and how much visual. We who gave
way to her personal spell in the past and were ready to
swear she touched a high C when she only cocked
her head and fired off her eye, followed her out
of light opera into heavy, and swore she was just
as great in ‘ Rigoletto ’ as she was in the ‘ Bar-
hiere.’ There was not anything she could not
make us swear to so long - as her hair was black and
matched her eyes and the mystery of both mingled with
the manner and the voice. Certainly there is not anv
cult in this expedient. It is the defiant weakness of a pci
who-who is getting a little nervous at the shadows, and
want ito borrow sunshine from the chemist. It is too had
that Donizetti and Kossini should have this last indignii v
of bottles heaped upon their neglected graves. Patti is
now a gilded rose._ There is only one iniquity left to the
last of the old-regime prima donnas, and it is enamelling.
The one thing that kept Patti perennial and exultant,
in spite of the on-moving science of music, was the inscrut-
able and irresistible something* we called Patti.; and that
characteristic personality conferred, not by the director but
by the Deity, has been disturbed. For thirty years we have
thought of her, not on the weak side of a woman, hut on
the strong side of a vocalist. How now ! Time, that
could not rob her of a vibration, formed a coalition with
vanity to rob her of her ‘ crown of glory.’ This is the
last straw that breaks the back of the Italian opera
devotee. I swear now that I will begin to worship the
ensemble and deify the orchestra. "When the cavatina
becomes capillary, give me the cornet. When Leonora
goes from the air to the hair, melody must be in a bad
way. I think the old romance might as well be beached
as bleached, for I used to hug the notion that Patti was
not unlike Samson, and when she brought dow n the house
I thought some of her strength was in her hair.
The working-staff of Sydney Criterion held their first
picnic, at Lane Cove River, on Sunday last, when about 70
persons, male and female, accompanied by an excellent
band and a choice assortment of liquors, were conveyed
thither by steamer. Three square meals were served up
in the pavilion, and the various out-door games, dancing
and skating were indulged in until 7 p.m. The toast
of Tub Bulletin met with a great reception, and three
cheers for the “ Coming Australian Republic ” were
given with an enthusiasm that showed how the cat
jumped.
Two young ladies, styled the Sisters Van Tassel, have
made successful parachute descents at Newcastle from
heights variously reckoned at from 2000 to 3000 feet above
ground. Have we not seen these ladies on the trapeze ?
It is said that Geo. C. Miln opens shortly in Svdnev
Standard. Richard 111. !
" .j.
“ It is always unsafe to base one's estimate
of a man’s respectability on the silk umbrella he is
carrying. —Chinese.
A private letter from England states that
a certain distinguished ex-colonist has sent a
message to his friends per Charley Gar-
land’s phonograph (which will be here shortly,
all complete, and will be the means of in-
troducing to the public the voices, among
others, of Saul Samuel and Adelina Patti:
the music of cornetist Smith, of the Coldstream
Guards, and so on). The story goes that the
tender message of the magnate aforesaid is of a
particularly entertaining character. The gentle-
man leaves out all his aitches, and the remorseless
phonograph, needless to say, does not put them in.
In the middle of the message the speaker stops to
cough and expectorate, and this is all carefully re-
produced by the Edisonian mocking-machine, as
is also a loud sound of subsequent foot-shuffling
made by the great man as he proceeds to distri
bute over the linoleum the results of his throat-
clearing operations*
The only two N.S.W. representative public
men who have received invitations to the Single-
Tax Association’s banquet to Henry George on
his arrival in March are the Mayor of Sydney
(Mr. Burdekin, M.P.) and the Premier (Sir Henry
Parkes). Mr. Burdekin is about the largest land-
holder in the city of Sydney, and annually gets in
somewhere about £BO,OOO to £lOO,OOO in rents,
and it will be amusing to watch how he winces
while Mr. George is pointing out the advantages
of taxing nothing but land values. And, as the
wily Parkes will try to “use” Henry George
—“Parkes’ friends are as wax in his hands,” says
Sir Charles Dilke—for his own political ends, we
rise to remind the land nationalists that a little
over a year ago in the N.S.W. Legislative As-
sembly Premier Parkes spoke of George as “a
dreamer ” —“ 1 have read so many such books and
listened to so many such theories and they all
came to nothing ” —and ridiculed his land-tax
theory.
After all, Editor Parke, of the North
London Press, owed his imprisonment, in con-
nection with the Cleveland Club infamies, to an
aristocratic conspiracy:—
It is only fair to Mr. Parke’s intelligence, and to the
commonsense of his legal advisers, to explain that when
he embarked on the plea of justification he fully expected
to bo able to produce a number of witnesses, who were
non est on Wednesday. Where they disappeared to,
and who provided them with funds to go, the luck-
less young journalist has not been able to ascertain.
He soon found, indeed, that a much longer purse
than his would be necessary to make any sort of it fight
against the prosecution. The private inquiry agents he
employed were no kind of a match for Mr. George Lewis.
As a last straw, too, the police assistance suddenly dried
up, and poor Parke had to choose between going to prison
and violating the confidence of the detective who origin-
ally supplied him with the story. Had he done this
he might have got off with six months less; hut the de-
tective would certainly have been turned out of the police
force. The Judge, Who was quite shrewd enough to
see that there was more in the affair than met the eve,
offered to adjourn the case in order to give Parke'an
opportunity of showing on whas evidence ho had realh
acted. The defendant ought undoubtedly to have taken
advantage of this; but his nerves were' completely de-
moralised by the long strain


WOLFE’S SCHNAPPS!
£l2OO a year given away in £1 Orders
Is superseding all other spirits.
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
“ Why do American Hop Bitters cure so much.
“ Because they give good digestion, rich biooo,
and hoaUby action of all the organs.
The Man from Heaven.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
I was present, the other day, when a
withered but rather intellectual-looking old man,
who had attracted the attention of a policeman
by his peculiar behaviour, was brought before the
police-court. The officer had seen him drinking
out of the water-channel, and when questioned by
the Bench the old man said, as he had said to the
constable, that he had just come out of Heaven
and wished to return there. The Bench sent him
instead to gaol for a week. The old man’s state-
ment awoke the following memory.
# * *
Nine years ago, or nearly, there might
have been observed —as G. P. R. James would
say—the soft golden haze of an April sunset,
two travellers slowly crossing the Yass plains in
New South Wales. They were about the same in
height, but there the resemblance ended. One was
of a firm but lissome build, with an eagle eye—two
eagle eyes, to be exact —an elastic tread he wore
elastic side-boots—and an indescribably graceful
carriage. He was, so to speak, ear-marked and
branded with the stamp of intellect and carried a
201 b. horseshoe swag thrown jauntily over one
shoulder and under the other. That noble and
gallant being was the present writer as he ap-
peared in those days, though nobody who knows
him now would for an instant believe it. His
companion was not remarkable for much except a
tremendous bump, which looked as though it had
been produced by a brick at no very remote date
on that region of the skull which phrenologists set
apart to the musical capacity. He said, in fact,
that it was the bump-or organ, as he called it,
facetiously, no doubt—of music. He was going
on a tour through the country piano-tuning—the
“Lay” of the Last Minstrel was his humorous
way of describing it. We were setting forth with
the valorous ignorance of youth to open the world’s
oyster in those days. We did eventually open it,
but there was nothing in it. Somebody seemed to
have been there before us.
As the dusk began
to fall we looked around
for a likely spot to camp
at. There isn’t much
more timber on those
plains than you would
find in half-a-pound of
the best American to-
bacco, as that luxury is
sold in most tobacconists’
shops, and we had con-
siderable difficulty in
scraping up enough to
boil our billies and broil
a beautiful slab of leather
which we had bought at
a butcher’s in Yass.
When I say bouyht I
should perhaps explain
that the steak—l mean
the leather—was pur-
chased from the proceeds
of a fee—or, to speak
more honestly, of a bribe
—given to my friend by
the leading publican of
Yass, who was the patron
of the local brass band,
and had engaged him as
conductor. My friend
stipulated that I should
board with him at tl e
hotel until something
turned up. The musical
publican agreed, but,
after we had stayed there
three days, and he had
seen us eat, he begged to
be let off his bargain.
Said he had been struggl-
ing for a competency all
his life and was getting
old and didn’t want to
die in the streets. My
friend accepted the com-
promise, and we left. I
should say, in apology
for unusually brisk appe.
tites, that we had just
come into Yass after be-
ing lost three days in the
Tumut Ranges with i o h-
ing but an ounce of dry
tea —and some gum I had
picked off a tree, which
nearly killed me—to eat all the time.
• We had |j ust begun upon the leather when we
saw coming through- the dusk a tall, shambling
figure carrying a small, a very small bundle.
“Sit down and join us,’Mve remarked, with the
usual sundowner hospitality. He sat down just
on the outer edge of the firelight—the piano-tunei
had found an old stump which in some miraculous
way seemed to have been overlooked by the wood
pirates of the plain—but he refused to join us.
This was so unprecedented a thing in our experi-
ence of tramping through the country—for your
genuine sundowner is the most sociable of men
when he meets you on the wallaby—that I ex-
amined him more closely on account of it.' lie
was—you could see it at a glance—a Eurasian,
which I need hardly say means a cross between
European and Hindoo. Curious, by the Way,: how
the Hindoo half nearly always predominates.over
the European among these people. He had'a
spare, sombre face with great, black, wistful-look-
ing eyes, and grizzled hair turning grey. His boots
—copper-fastened bluchers—were tied with string,
and he had a strange habit of taking first one off
and then the other and pensively into
them for something which was evidently, not
there. This performance he kept on repeating till
we had finished our tea and leather and started to
smoke as all good sundowners do (N.B.— you inky
find a sundowner without tea, or sugar, or mutton,
or even flour, but it is a very cold day with him
when he is without tobacco).
“ TJhat man’s an enthusiast or I’m mistaken, i
said to my friend, “ I can tell it by his eye.”
“ He’s a lunatic, in my opinion, senten-
tiously replied the Piano-tuner.
Suddenly he electrified us.
He flung his right boot into the middle of the
fire with a cry of “ Lost! Lost! Lost! ” like the
Dwarf in Scott’s poem, and sat there watching it
frizzle (the Piano-tuner raked it out with a stick
before much harm had been done to it) with black
eyes that burned more luridly than the burning
log.
“ Mad, I told you—mad as a hatter,” said
the Piano-tuner, who loved a vigorous adjective
when it came in his way and frequently when it
didn’t.
“ No, an enthusiast merely,” I repeated.
And I was right.
“ Gentlemen,” said the weird creature, moving
nearer to us, “you needn’t have troubled about
that boot. There’s nothing in it—nothing in it.
I’ve searched it a hundred times.”
“Nobody said there was,” I replied, mildly.
“Perhaps he put a sock in it some time or
other,” suggested the Piano-tuner, in a whisper.
“ No, gentleman,” continued the Eurasian, “ I
shall never find it. It’s lost, lost, lost.”
“ I’ve changed my opinion about'this joker,”
whispered the Piano-tuner again—“ I believe he’s
got designs on us. He’s an escaped convict, or
I’m a Dutchman.”
Considering that the total amount of our wealth
consisted of half-a-pound of gum-leaf tea, about a
cake and a half of tramp’s tobacco, a little sugar,
and the remainder of the leather, together with a
few shillings left from the spoil of the publican,
and certain poems of the Piano-tuner’s in manu-
script, I thought he’d be a pretty desperate
character to murder us —and he’d have had to
murder us to get them—for that much.. But I
didn’t know then what some of the characters who
infested that road were capable of as well as I did
afterwards. Still the Eurasian glowered into the
fire and kept muttering his weird retrain. -
“What the devil do you mean by your ‘lost,
lost, lost’?” said the Piano-tuner, driven to des-
peration at last.
“ Let me look at you,” said the Eurasian, jerk-
ing himself up with appalling swiftness and glaring
with his lurid black eyes into the pale-blue ones of
the Piano-tuner. .
You never saw a piano-tuner so frightened in
your life before.
The Eurasian seemed to me in that moment the
exact personification of a Thug.
What if he happened to be a Thug in reality—
the last of his race, escaped from India and carry-
ing on here in Australia his murderous worship of
his goddess Bowhani!
The thought sent a cold shiver through me.
/V/t-c Os~ r*/s c
y/ 0 ,/
THE GREAT NEW SOUTH WALES BOOM.
“When we get plenty of rain things in New South Wales will boom.”-Sydney foreign Trade
paper, a few months past.
“ I can’t trust you,” said the Eurasian, sinking
gently back to his former position. • '
It was a great relief.
“You see,” he began—l may say that he spoke
very fair English—“l’ve lost it and I’m looking
for it.. Sometimes I think it’s in towns-some-
times I think it’s in the bush—but mostly I think
it’s in my boots. But it isn’t, and I’m looking for
it —I’m looking for it. - They've got it, though
they've got it. ” 1 • ‘ "
“Looking for what?" said the Piano-tuner,"who
had recovered from his momentary fright by this
time.
“Looking for 'my return-ticket to my-own
country,” he replied. -
“To India?” I said.
“No, to Heaven,” he ahsWCred, gravely.
I The Piano-tuner had a keen sense of humour,
and this tickled him exceedingly.
“Tell us all about it,” he said, with an ex-
aggerated assumption of interest.
We filled our pipes, he and I--the Eurasian
didn’t smoke, apparently—and stretched out with
our feet to the tire to listen.
As ho began his story the Eurasian uncon-
sciously settled upon his haunches in the Oriental
style, and as the flickering flames from the burning
stump played over his swarthy features I couldn t
help thinking that I was listening to an Arab
story-teller relating a story from some unpublished
portion of the “Arabian Nights.” Perhaps he
was. I am not sure to this day.
“ I had a return ticket to Heaven and I lost it, ’
he commenced.
“ Was it a balloon ticket?” innocently enquired
the Piano-tuner.
“ No, it was a ship ticket,” replied the Eurasian
with simple earnestness, “ I came in one of the
ships from Heaven to Melbourne to see my widow
and fetch hhr back with me.”
“ Your widow /” I exclaimed; “ you don’t mean
to say you’re dead ?”
“Certainly I am,” he replied with a curious
smile, half-proud, half-mournful. .<
“Cheerful,” muttered the Piano-tuner, to be
sitting cheek by jowl with a Hindoo ghost on a
blasted heath at midnight.
“ You don’t think I could go to Heaven unless
I was dead, do you ?” said the dead stranger, who
had acquired a sudden and appalling importance
in our eyes— remember, it was by this time mid-
night, as the Piano-tuner said, and we were ten
miles away from the nearest human habitation.
I agreed with him that it was not likely.
“But if your widow was alive how could you
take her back with you ?” asked the Piano-tuner,
who was not afraid of man, ghost, or devil for
more than two minutes at a time.
“ Kill her,” was the simple reply.
“Nice gentleman, this, to camp with, ’ mur-
mured the Piano-tuner.
“I couldn’t find her at first. She had married
again and gone away, they told me. I found out
afterwards where she was, and followed her. She
didn’t know me, and her new husband, who was a
countryman of mine, asked me to stay at his house
for two or three days. I said I would, and that
night I pretended to go to sleep and put my return
ticket in my boot—which one I forget. Some
thing came over me and I closed my eyes. When
I opened them I looked in my boots and the
ticket was gone and the house empty. They had
found me out and stolen my ticket. But I shall
discover them yet if I search the world for them.
And he glowered into the fire for several minutes
before he continued his story.
“Then I went to God’s house to tell him about
it.”
“Where’s God’s house?” drily enquired the
Piano-tuner. ,
“In Little Eourke-street. You can easily tell
it. - There’s golden railings in front of it.”
“ He’s thinking of the Joss-house,” said the
Piano-tuner in a whisper.
“ But God wasn’t there. He had gone pack to
Heaven. He only comes to his house in Mel-
bourne now and then. So I went away and
began to search for those two and I’m here looking
for them now.”
“ Will you tell us what Heaven’s like? ” 1 said.
“ Yes. It is a lovely country. You go there
in a ship qiter jtouare dead, and when you land
; they put a beautiful Suit of white, clothes on you,
with a gold turban and gold rings in your ears and
red slippers on your feet. Then they take you to
a grand hotel, as big as the Melbourne exhibition,
and ask you what you’ll have to drink.”
“Charge nothing?” enquired the Piano-tuner.
“No, oh no, they never charge anything there.
You can have anything you like to ask for and
they charge youmothing.”
“Humph!” growled the Piano-tuner, “if this
fellow’s not been in Heaven, he’s been in a place
very much like it.”
“And then V’
■ • “Then they take you around and show you the
sights‘and bring you to have your measure taken
for a pair bf : wings.”
“ But what sort of a place is it ?—what do you
do there ? ”
“ Oh, it’s a fine place, and you do nothing all
the time but lie down and smoke and drink and
listen to music and singing, and—and just do
nothing.”
“ Plenty of drink ? ”
“ There’s a river of beer running ”
“ Yes,” said the Piano-tuner with sudden in-
terest.
. “ And a river of whisky.”
•“Yes.”
“ And a river of brandy.”
“ Yes—yes—go on.”
“ And a river of rum with another little river
of hot water running alongside it, and lemon-trees
growing on the bank, and piles of lump-sugar
every few yards, and little angels to come and mix
your drinks for you.”
The Piano-tuner rose solemnly, and walking a
step or two over to where the Eurasian was sit-
ting, said, in a voice that trembled with conviction
—I suppose it was conviction—“ You have been
there. Gimme your hand.” ■ _
The astonished Eurasian held out his hand
limply, and the Piano-tuner shook it in a slow,
grave way, and then came back to the place he had
left and lay down again.
The Man from Heaven put on his charred boot,
tied it up with string, and taking up his bundle,
said, “ 1 must be going now to look for my return
ticket. Good night.”
And he stalked away into the darkness.
The piano tuner sat silently staring into the fire
for fully five minutes. Then he turned gravely to
me and said, “ I never thought Heaven was a
place like that before. I’m a changed man from
this day. ”
I never saw the Man from from that
day to this. I suppose he is still looking for his
return ticket.
An insurance-fiend recently called by
appointment on the head of a certain Australian
theological seminary for the purpose of “taking
the lives ”of the inmates. The bald-pated Head
at first demanded a reduction for quantity. This
being refused, he then said that the holy character
of the ultimate office of the students should
furnish sufficient cause for a large concession, but
here again the insurance-man—who had “been
there ” and drunk midnight whisky with his
spiritual advisers—refused to abate one penny.
The wily theologian, however, not yet shaken off,
made a final stand, saying insinuatingly—“ Well,
then, seeing it’s a large order how much am I to
stand in on your commission ? ”
Abouttwoyearsago, inaN.S.W. townwhere
two rivers meet, a man could be seen in various
stages of sobriety and ebriety nearly every day. Ho
was a plasterer, and carried his sign in the shape
'of a trowel and some white spots on his face and
clothes. No mistake, he was a tradesman, as his
work showed, and he could tell his own work
blindfold simply by the feel of it. One morning
he awoke and could not tell for the life of him
where he had gone to bed, as he generally couched
in empty buildings when drunk and hard-up, and
in a pub. when drunk and flush. So this is what
he thought; “Ah ! In a room, at any rate ; too
dark to tell it. I’ve fallen out of bed and dragged
the blankets with me. I’ll feel the wall. My own
work. I’m all right. Daylight’s coming. Doosid
small windows, and high up. _ Can’t remember
this room, but it’s my plastering. So help me,
never! The new lock-up, and I’m the first
prisoner!”
The Saturday Review, per last mail,
notices an extraordinary new book, “ Correspon-
dence of the Iron Duke of Wellington with a cer-
tain Miss J .” The reviewer declares that the
book must be genuine, because no one could imitate
the Duke’s style so perfectly. Miss J., 50 years
ago, was a very pious young lady, seized with an
idea of converting the Duke, to whom she was a
perfect stranger. She wrote to him, and he was
so pleased that he called on her. Wellington and
Miss J. became very thick. He used to call fre-
quently, which inspired her with a great scheme,
to become Duchess of Wellington, purely in the
interests of religion. In a queenly manner, she
proposed to the Duke, but he couldn’t see it.
Then Miss J. was imbued with grave doubts as
to his honourable intentions. This part of the
book is delicious, and will place it on every club
table. Without any positive scandal, the book is
most racy and suggestive. The correspondence
extends over the period from Queen victoria’s
accession to 1851. Miss J. being long dead, the
letters, come out without any offence. She and
the Duke “ quarrelled like anything,” but always
made it up again. Wellington was a little bit
gay, keenly susceptible to female This
all strikes The Bulletin as being very like the
old, old story of the platonic friendship between
the organist and the girl who went to choir-prac-
tice. There is nothing so fatal to the interests of
morality as the inter-sexual friendship founded
on religious fervour and leading up to the kiss of
peace on a calm sabbath eve.
Red Tapeism.
The following case has come under our observa-
tion ;
Mj gs , (daughter of a prominent phy-
sician, who won’t allow us to publish names, because
“it would be infra dig, and unprofessional ”) has
been in delicate health for the last five years, the
cause was simply anaemia or poorness of blood,
her father had treated her for all sorts of complaints
and she had been also attended by several “ladies’ ”
specialists without benefit; The case came under
our notice quite accidentally some months ago,
Mi ss was then just 20$ years of age, sft
5 inches in height and weighed exactly 101 pounds.
She had the usual symptoms of anaemia, exces-
sively pale and pasty skin and lips, dark circles
,'ound the eyes, soft and flabby limbs, complete
’oss of periodic functions, was excessively nervous,
amid and weak, no appetite and very restless at
night. We microscopically examined the blood
and by dilution with distilled water and caretul
examination, arrived at a very accurate estimation
of the number of red blood corpuscles per ounce,
what there were of them appeared all shrivelled
and shrunk like dried fruit and were almost
distitute of vitalising properties. We advised the
use of Clements' Tonic in doses of a dessertspoonful
after meals, and this treatment was adopted with-
out the father’s knowledge. Four weeks after-
wards, when 5 small bottles of the remedy had
been taken we again examined the blood, the red
corpuscles had increased by 70 per cent, as near
as we could estimate, and under the microscope
had the appearance of over ripe red currants
almost bursting, the patient had gained 5 pounds,
then (September Tth, 1889,) weighing 7 stone 8
pounds. The appetite was much improved, the
limbs were becomming firmer and the muscular
tissue more defined and pronounced. She could
walk considerable distances without undue fatigue,
could eat and digest almost any kind of food, the
lips were pink and firm and the dark circles under
the eyes had almost disappeared. We advised a
continuance of the use of Clements' Tonic and she
took a further course of four large bottles, and
then as perfect strength and vital energy was
restored, a longer treatment was not considered
necessary. She is now fully restored to health,
strong, vigorous and weighs 10 stone 3 pounds,
can do any- kind of work or walk 5 miles without
fatigue, eats well, sleeps well, and has a vigorous
appetite. What a change from her condition 4
months ago! , , ,m j +i> o
Now, Reader, here’s a case that has battled tue
best medical and therapeutical skill for years,
which Clements' Tonic has positively cured in •>
months, but we are not allowed to publish uames
because it would not be orthodox. Mankind may
suffer, hundreds of curable cases must be neglected,
scores of lives must lie sacrificed because it would
be infra dig. and unprofessional ” for a medical
man to recommend or give a testimonial
Clements' Tonic because it is “ a proprietory article
or patent medicine.” The mere fact of its being
a patent medicine is the greatest protection to
the public, for were it made otherwise its tim
apolitical excellence would be subordinate to tne
profits of its various makers ; while the man ■
facture is in the hands of one maker, it is to n
interest to make a genuine article.


d
60
ING
& Celebrated
fffc
IND.J
„ -m L -=#-
flo^.F.S.WHEELERr
fflmofimssiy
w/prl
/»
BUGGIES, BUCKBOARDS,
; —AND—*
VICTORIAS,
A( MAN I F ACT I' K IMIS’ P RICES.
Send for Catalogues and Prices to
THE F. B. WHEELER CO..
265 Clarence Street. SYDNEY
Personal Items.
The Earl and Countess of Behnore have
now 13 children—three sons and 10 daughters.
Lady Bertie’s great-grandfather arrived in
the colony in 1801, an officer in the 102nd Regiment.
General Richardson, of Soudan celebrity,
i;j ill from overwork. No orderly-clerk works
harder.
J. H. Finlayson, editor of the S.A.
Register, commenced as a boy in the office of
that paper.
Parnell has been visiting Mr. Gladstone.
Thus he has slept under the roof of the man who
once put him in prison.
Speaking of Robert Browning, says Irving ;
“ Philosophy calls Browning a poet. Poetry calls
Browning a philosopher.”
The eminent C. E. Jones, Victoria, made
a big pile during the land-boom but is said to
have since got rid of some of it.
Capt. Heathcote, living in quiet retire-
ment at Orange (N.S.W.), wears the Y.C. for
acts of bravery in the Indian Mutiny.
There is a genuine millionaire in South
Australia named W. H. Gray. This solid man
generally “ does the block” in a spring-cart.
Sir George Innes has returned and re-
sumed duty at N.S.W. Supreme Court. He is
unfortunately not much improved in health.
Four ex-Australian Governors are to be
banqueted in London before passing into the ob-
scurity which they are so well fitted to adorn.
The European Mail emphatically notes
that Speaker Young (N.5.W,),-has been again
passed over in the new year’s list of “ honors.”
Queen Victoria had a 312-lb. baron of
beef on her sideboard on Christmas day. This is
about the most useful baron we ever heard of.
Baron Kesteven, who is trotting the
colonies, is son of a fine old Tory, Sir John
Trollope, whom Disraeli created a Lord in 1868.
For want of issue the title Earl of Sydney
(the last earl’s grandfather was the city of Sydney’s
godfather) becomes extinct. A clear chance foi
Parkes.
The London Times published no obituary
of Charles Mackay, the poet, though asked to do
so. The Times will contain an obituary of Sir
Samuel Wilson.
Bishop Barry, late of Sydney, states that
wages are too high in Australia. Did the Bishop
think so when he drew hi' two thou, and lived in
the Randwick Palace?
An actor friend of Phil. Beck’s declares
that the primary cause of his suicide was the re-
fusal of his suit by a certain vivacious little
actress whom we all admire.
Sir Henry Parkes became affectingly
pious at the close of his second Conference speech
and “prayed God that this event would come
about by the wisest counsels.”
Lady Carington, Lady W in. Macleay, and
Lady Charles Scott are members of a women’s
temperance union, fighting for local option—and
neither is an abstainer. So saith a Victorian
paper.
Sir William Manning, who is just 80, has
been re-elected president of the N.S.W. Rifle
Association for the 30th time, and as a coincidence
he has been for 30 years president of the Sailors’
Home.
Mortimer Menpes, the now famous London
artist, was at one time office-boy at W. and J.
Storrie’s warehouse in Adelaide. His chief delight
was to caricature the “boss” and occasional
visitors.
Does George Augustus Sala's second wife
object to smoking in the drawing-room, we won-
der ? George has been known to join the ladies,
after dinner in an Australian friend’s house, witl
a cigar in his mouth.
Parkes can do more than write little ponies
of his own. He can tell little stories of his own
that would sell more Centennials— to gentlemen
only—than all the bad verse he ever wrote or tha*
he may ever publish.
Samuel Beddome, the Adelaide Police
Magistrate, has held his present position almost
forty years. He has made an enormous fortune in
Barrier stock, but he will probably stick to his
billet till the very last.
Miss Kate E. Drexell, the American girl
who took with her into a convent 411.200,000 ster-
ling, has asked the Pope to devote her fortune to
founding a new religious order whose special work
it shall be to Roman Catholicise the U.S. negroes.
Witness: “Mr. Purves must expect me
to have the head of a rhinoceros to remember all
these details.” The angelic Purves ; “If there be
any similarity between yourself and the animal in
question, sir, I should say it would be in the hide.
The bachelor Chief Justice Way, of South
Australia, has refused, over and over again, to be
knighted. It is alleged that he despises anything
short of a dukedom. One of the chief delights of
Adelaide is to hear Way buttering a titled visitor.
Robert Browning was of Hebrew 7 ex-
traction. His mother’s maiden name was Wiede-
mann. His father was a trusted clerk of the
Rothschilds at a time when the famous firm was
supposed to employ none but persons of their own
faith.
Judge Pater, of the Northern Territory,
will not return to that tropical region, but will
resume the practice of his profession in Adelaide.
When Pater was in Adelaide before, he was the
leading criminal and police-court advocate of the
sacred city.
The late William Tunks, who at one time
represented St. Leonards in the N.S.W. Assembly,
beat the records of John Thomas Smith (Mel-
bourne), John Harris (Sydney), and Dick Whit-
tington (London), in so far that he was mayor of
his borough for 16 consecutive years.
Sai’a Bernhardt has always been said to
possess great nerve. For instance, she elected to
witness the embalming of the body of her dead
husband. But when a fire broke out in the theatre
in which she was playing she fainted. Moral; It
is easy to bear other people’s troubles.
They say that Gilbert and Sullivan are
never on terms of brotherly love, save when they
come together before the curtain on the first night
of a successful comic-opera production to bow
their acknowledgments. After which they again
relapse into a condition of armed neutrality.
E. P. Nesbit, who represented Western
Australia at the Natives’ Conference, once created
some excitement in Melbourne by jumping off an
incoming steamer in the Yarra and swimming
ashore. A man that can swim the Yarra and
recover must contain more than average grit.
Lord Sherbrooke is dictating his reminis-
cences to his wife with a view to publication.
Lady Sherbrooke, whom he married a couple of
years ago, was one of the orphan children of Mrs.
Jamieson, murdered in Margaret-street, Sydney,
in 1844 by Knatcbbull, whom Lowe defended on
his trial.
I* Parkes’ friend, Toin Playford, the er-
Premier of S.A., is a market gardener near Ade-
laide, and when he is not demolishing the present
Ministry, devotes his time to hoeing cabbages and
stirring up thecodlin moth in his pears and apples.
Playford is happy when he is chewing his favourite
clay pipe.
It is related by a contemporary that when
Lord Poor-ches‘er (a consumptive youth who has
just visited Sydney) was enjoying Mayoral hospi-
tality down the Beautiful Harbour, a bottle of
whisky bearing Gladstone’s portrait was put
before him. “ Haw !” said me hid, “ have you no
other Scotch whisky aboard?”
Rev. Hugh Chapman (Eng.), when asked
to refute certain libels on the character of the
late Father Damien, “published in some obscure
party journal ” (a Sydney religious paper), says
his only answer is “a reference to Damien’s life
and a respectful suggestion that his detractors
might do well to imitate the same.”
Increasing age and. infirmities are greatly
altering the once jovial character of the Prince of
Wales. He is said to feel greatly the disappear-
ance one by one of all the personal friends and
companions of his early years, some to untimely
graves, and others into dark abysses of dishonour
ten thousand times more terrible.
Griffith isn’t popular with his family on
the ground that so far from “ boosting " them at
the public expense he won’t even give them the
same sort of public boost that he would be willing
to give a rank Amalekite. If this is true it may
account for the St, Eniual Magazine (see it?)
not publishing any little poems of his.
I t appears that the late Father Kavanagh,
the R.C. priest who died on the Iberia, expired at
1.30 p.m. and was buried at sea at 8 p.m. same
day, two hours before the arrival of the vessel at
Adelaide. The captain’s explanation of the hasty
burial (for which he has been removed from his
ship) appears to be that he had to consult his
passengers.
A fund has been started to enable John
Burns to remain in “Labour politics,” instead of
continuing to work as an engineer. Says a
London paper :
Burns in very badly off. When Mr. Tussaud applied to
him for leave to dress the lay figure of the agitator which
lias just been added to the waxworks show in the original*
straw hat (with the crown knocked out) and the blue serge
coat and trousers, Burns made a very practical reply.
“ They are the only clothes I have,” he said. However,
as the Tussaud folk were bent on having the clothes, a
compromise was arrived at by which Burns got a new suit
in exchange for the historic garments which now figure in
Marylebone-road.
Dr. M. was a spiritist who flourished in
Melbourne years ago. He professor! to be able to
diagnose and prescribe a cure for ui.y ailment on
merely seeing a lock of the sufferer’s hair. Coroner
Youl read the advertisement and determined to
play it low down on the spiritist. He clipped the
locks of a corpse in the City Morgue and got a
young friend to send the hair to Dr. M., with a
note to the effect that it had grown on the head
of an invalid relative in the country. The spiritist
was shown up 1 Very much so ! By return-post
the hair came back, and on the turned-up corner
of the note was written—“ Bury this man at once”
POLITICAL PIONTS
At next N.S.W. general election J. P. T.
Caulfield will oppose Minister of Justice Gould
for Patrick’s Plains.
Angus Cameron, who is once more in
good health, will appear at n=xt N.S.W. general
election as an out-and-out Protectionist.
Billy Patterson is backing the Central
Queensland Separation movement He finds that
MTI wraith is still bigger than he in Boath Queen- -
land, and William naturally wants a dunghill to
himself, even if it’s only a little one.
The Age newspaper has had to pay £5OO
and cost< for calling one J. T. Brown a Roman
Catholic “ for political purposes.” A Melbourne
solicitor is understood to be now proceeding
against the Age for a somewhat similar alleged
libel.
A Charters Tower paper says that “every
sane man must know that the distinction between
Radical and Republican is very wide.” Not so
wide, after all ; the former include* the latter. A
Republican is not necessarily a Radical, but a true
Radical is of necessity a Repul lican if he be not a
Socialist.
Gov. Kintore (S.A.) has been in office
for about 44 weeks, and for a fifth of that period
lie has been out of the colony, but drawing salary
all the same. The moral deduced by a local paper
is that things go just as well when this imported
and highly-paid Governor is away as they do dur-
£•/
A COMPREHENSIVE DISH.
SCENE— The Refectory of a certain R.C. college. The rev. gentleman in charge having been
called in to hear the complaint of one of the students in regard to some of the provisions
on the table.
STUDENT: “I DON’T CARE ABOUT THESE SAUSAGES. FATHER! I’D
LIKE SOME OTHER KIND OF MEAT-SOME GRILLED STEAK.”
HIS REVERENCE: “OTHER KOIND OF MATE. IS IT! SHOORE YE HAVE
IVERY KOIND OF MATE THERE!”
STUDENT: “THAT’S JUST WHAT I OBJECT TO.”
ing the absence of the imported and highly-paid
bishops.
It’s a bad sign for the single-tax that so
many clergymen should advocate it, as the ad-
vocacy of the clergy is enough to kill anything.
On the other hand, it may be argued that the
augury is a good one, as the parsons never fight
for the lost cause but always cheer for the upper-
most pup.
The proposal that the Pitt-street Congre-
gational Church, Sydney, should be placed at
Henry George’s disposal on two week evenings
has caused trouble among the congregation who
have “taken sides ”in the matter. The fact is
that the deacons can't be relied on to run the
show business in the absence of the great old
reverend advertiser.
Sir Henry Parkes declared, at the Federal
Conference, that he doesn’t know any Australian
Statesmen. Note the plural. Many years ago
Gavan Duffy asserted that Parkes was the ‘ only
Statesman ” in Australia, and Parkes then re-
turned the compliment. It was only a case of
“scratch me,” &c. “Now Hi stand halone.”
Duffy is not in Australia.
The Hawke’s Bay Herald, a Napier
newspaper, having an extensive circulation among
the “Twelve Apostles” (principal land-grabbers)
of Hawke’s Bay, says that The Bulletin has
bfeen attacking Sir Henry Parkes for years, with
the result that Parkes is now the most powerful
politician in the Australian colonies. This shows
what healthy criticism can do for a man.
The Conference broke up without making
one loyal speech on the Marquis of Lome’s re-
cent brilliant idea —“ An Imperial tariff on a
Prcetrade basis which should apply to all articles
producible in the Empire.” An Imperial tariff,
restricted to articles like the Marquis of Lome, is
badly wanted in this country. Lord Porchester
was landed duty free only the other day.
The Victorian Federation Committee of
1857 is strangely sundered. William Nicholson
was not on, as asserted by Sir Henry Parkes, nor
was he Chief Secretary at the time. In fact, he
was in England, airing himself after his success
with the Ballot Bill. Of the committee Evans,
O’Shanassy, Horne, Barker, and Syme are de ad.
Duffy, Childers, Foster, and M'Culloch are ab-
sentees ; Moore and Griffiths are unknown quan-
tities ; and Archibald Michie (who is neither fish,
flesh, nor good red-herring) is the only one left in
Australia, and no political party will federate
with him just now.
“ Speaker ” Young (N.S.W.) has just
done a political stumping-tour in company with
that excessively “cocky” political chicken,
Minister Carruthers. Is this decent? Don’t you
think, Speaker Young, that it somewhat resembles
the conduct of the judge who hobnobs with the
litigant whose cause is set down for to-morrow in
his court ? Mr. Young is honest, but he “ don’t
know”—and Minister Carruthers don’t know,
either.
The AustraMan Natives of Bairnsdale
(Vic.) have been grievously wounded- in their
political feelings by the conduct of their ex-presi-
dent, who recently closed his connection with the
association by seizing the piano. They can’t sing
“God Save the Queen” without an accompani-
ment, and, after a debate extending over many
days, the members have decided to take legal pro-
ceedings for recovery of the lost instrument.
Australian Federation is no good without the
bum-bailitfed adjunct of “ God Save the Queen.”
Thus a Monday’s cablegram
An English punitive expedition despatched against the
Somalis, a tribe of East African natives, after killing 20,
were enticed by the Somalis into an ambuscade and ten of
the Indian cavalry were massacred.
Do you notice the fine distinction? The naked,
ill-armed native who slays the interlopers who
enter his country to burgle it and punish him
possibly for resenting some act of tyranny,
“massacres,” while the well-armed, legalised
human butcher bravely “kills!” The man who
defends his home is a “ rebel,” the scoundrels who
invade it are “ heroes !” What cant!
The Victorian Government has some
pretty stiff annual pensions to pay. For instance,
Sir Andrew Clarke draws £BOO, and has done so
for 35 years. Gavan Duffy is down, of course,
for £1000; ex-Judge Cope, £900; ex-Judges
Clarke, Rogers, and kinner, £750 each : “Snuffy”
Wilkinson, who was for years Master in Equity,
£750; old Doctor McCrea gets £405 ; Rusden, of
the “Parliament,” draws £500; and Champ, of
the “ Prisons, ” £450. The smallest pension shown
is that of Mrs. Connell, who gets the munificent
sum of £8 14s ]>er annum. Lady Darling’s name
is still retained “on the list” for £lOOO a year,
but we fancy she died some years ago.
When Parkes put on his breastplate of
righteousness and likened himself to the little
lamb with whom wolf Playford was endeavouring
to pick a quarrel, the Conference showed symp-
toms of alarm. , Gillies (by that time fairly awake
because he had to fire off his presidential utter-
ances after Parkes had finished) kepi shifting
himself uneasily on the chair of State. Deakin
nervously bobbed up and down like an egg in
boiling water. Playford gnawed his hairy under-
lip, Bird breathed a silent prayer for peace in
their midst, and Hr John Hall and Macrossan,
the wise little old men of the show, shook their
grey heads deprecating]y. The/ storm passed
over, however, and all bets on the anticipated
“ mill ” had to be drawn.
Ail ex-parson, some ex-black labour sym-
pathisers, and the paid secretary of an employers’
union, run what is left of the Brisbane “London
Dock Strike Fund.” Between them they have
managed to keep £4OO from going where it belongs,
and, after every tuppenny-ha’penny local accident
they try to bluff the crowd into giving the dockeis’
coin to some hospital ward or flooded-out village.
These Bananaland pull-backs have been kicking
themselves since the big strike at having let the
milk < f human kindness ooze out of a pore or two
that wasn’t quite choked with filthy lucre. Pro-
bably it is to prevent any more oozing that they
are now wallowing in a contemptible piece of
class-meanness. The money belongs to the London
dockers and should go to them. t
Chief Justice Lilley, of Queensland, who
is coming out flatfooted for Australian indepen-
dence, “ peaceably if possible, but independence
anyway,” has seen life. , He! was several of the
boys rolled into one when die was articled
clerk to a London solicitor, and graduated by
enlisting. His friends bought him out and packed
him off to Australia as the best way of getting rid
of him. That is how he arrived like many an out-
cast before him, and in three years he was run-
ning the old Moreton Bay Courier and making
Queensland separation hum. He was in the : first
Queensland Parliament, and carried Fortitude
Valley eight times against all-comers. He was in
the Herbert Ministry in ’65, and formed one
of his own in ’6B. If any Premier was ever
Napoleonic, Lilley was. He made education free
by a departmental order, while the rest of Aus-
tralia was talking about it, and smashed the big
A.S.N. monopoly by going in for Government
steamers to carry the Government mail. The-
world wasn’t ripe for socialism in those days, and
the commercial crowd, whom the coastal mono-
polies have been nipping ever since, united to
down Lilley—and did. He gazetted his colleagues
out of office once when they objected to his
policy. He also started the Queensland grammar-
school system, and has done most pf the law
reform there, ' which isn’t much, of course. He
has been judge for 26 years now, and is nearly
entitled to retirement. As he is ambitious and
active, he may return to politics on the out-and-
out Nationality line. If he does he’ll pull Queens-
land with him, that’s certain, and make Parkes
and Griffith and Gillies look as conservative as
the old woman of Downing-street. For Lilley is
a political gambler. It is “All or Nothing” with
him. and ever w r as.
“The greatest appetizer, stomach and liver
regulator—Dr. Soule’s American Hop Bitters.”
It is related of our dear old friend, George
Francis Train, that he once offered to bet a con-
siderable sum that he was the “biggest fool in
America,” whereupon a thoughtful-looking little
man, who evidently did not know him by sight,
stepped up and responded: “ Look here, stranger,
I’ll take that bet, provided you’re not George
Francis Train.”


I
Our [f ~fe>l J gof ae) i J
of 4be k> ro c <z<zd io £ s before t b<2 public ujere Vfs
‘ » 1 admitted J)
đ
'Sft.vJ
w VAiOS.
an easy one
I« s rr\ ar)i a r\ Jl) Ir cl
CA/f\ cle rci '\\ v.
* / j pi|t K*
Kt ° r x^
‘"S olrn U c
Wincf^t)p>b€f la/ee r?
/ p|«yford
X/
* I p i
f* cs u 1 t o| 4K e
Ponee
1j j -pd e r i
IS>i rj P) e C* ir*
THE FEDERAL CONFERENCE ARTISTICALLY REGARDED


if
to
pow».1*o«
%
us r% A
90* Ay j
tygf&A-Vh' l ' l
PKBA'P
I w
fay
RL FHmwjj
\ “ Yes, "I" can give you a ham
sandwich the bread ’ ”
4
GREAT BAKERS’ DEMONSTRATION.
I ///// ,
YParent (unduly savage
fjIJPSI W.\ wing to enfor eed moat I
lj I no doubt): “Crying
llhtf Ijjnftf for-'oread, eh { How dare
you look We in the face and cry for
bread, knowing that before this con-
founded bakers’ strike we could
hardly induce you to touch bread!”
Hot .Cross buns.! Hot Cross buns !
One a guinea, two a guinea,
Hot Cross buns!
I TREASURE TROVE.^|
“Isay! Just look what)
I found in the dog£,
Icennel! - And
just taste buttered toast once more ”
Amateur bread making,
/r£oi) f 5
' 9 rf?<L O
Amateur bread making
~ Results.
|...., .... . /4 ‘ Bill, e,-
jbaksh sli nke don't ’feet you ’n me
jnmsh we e’n live ’thout
|breadsh; but wot I dread ish a
ashtulcrersh shrike ! ”
8
Pat a cake, Pat a cake baker’s man,
That I do, master, fast ns I Can,
I roll it,-and-thump rt, and mark it with ■ E,
Which stands for eight hours—
A day’s work for me.
4 tr
"VN ill man become a carnivorous amm .!
THOUG HTS SUGGESTED BY A POSS I BLE BA KE RS' STRIKE .


Foreign & colonial exchange bank
OF AUSTRALASIA, Limited.
Sydney—B6 King Street.
Melbourne— 3G9 Collins Street.
London Bankers—Australian Joint Stock Bank,
No. 2 King William Street, London, E.C.
Authorised Capita. /, £500,000 .
T. S. RICHARDSON, Esq., Managing Director.
This Bank undertakes the Exchange of Money,
both International and Intercolonial, includ-
ing the Coinage op all Foreign Nations, in
addition to all usual and customary banking busi-
ness.
Deposits Received.
3 years per cent.
12 months ... ' ... ... 8 per cent.
6 months ... 7 per cent,
8 months ... ... 6 percent.
Communications to be addressed to “The
Managing Director. ”
For the Overworked Brain
USE HORSFORD’S AOin PHOSPHATE.
Dr. Thos. Davidson, L.R.0.P., and S., Gos-
forth, Newcastle-on-Tyne, says : “ I find it an ex-
cellent tonic in oases of mental anxiety induced
by over-study in clergymen, and others.”
The
Marvellous
18s. 6d.
OPTIMUS
WATCHES
The Best, Cheapest and Most Accurate Timekeepers
ever produced.
Made especially to our order by one of the leading and
most celebrated manufacturers of Watches in Switzerland,
and experience has shown that no watch is better than a
well-made Swiss one.
Gilt movements, jewelled in six holes, keyless (10 turns
to wind), enamel dials, crystal faces, well made, splendidly
linished, nickel oases that will wear excellently; in fact,
real good-looking, handsome little watches, and magnifi-
cent timekeepers.
Twelve months’ guarantee forwarded with every one.
Send P. 0.0. for 19s. 6d, (Is. postage), and have one
forwarded by post. If not in every way satisfactory after
a week money willingly refunded.
Only to be obtained from
FROST <sc SHIPHAM,
Spkctacle Makers, Opticians & Electricians,
474 & 587 GoorSo Street. Sydney.
W. H. PALING & COMPANY, LIMITED,
356 George - Street, SYDNEY,
HAVE Just Opened a Magnificent Lot of !KT©-w Pianos
Also of the wonderful Victor Pianos at £45
from the celebrated Makers, Steinway, Erard, Uehel, Fenrich, Lipp, Ronisch, Eluthner, Collard,aml others
and Estov Orisane. No such Variety or Value elsewhere for Cash or Terms.
Society
All women dearly love a lord, and so it is
feet wonderful that that queer old red-brick struc-
ture, St. James’ Church, Sydney, was literally
rushed on 12th inst. when Miss Cox, eldest
daughter of Dr. James C. Cox, of Sydney, became
the wife of Lord Bertie, formerly A.D.C. to
Governor Carington. Everybody was there, in-
cluding the Governor and his wife, Lady Caring-
ton being attired in cream satin-striped silk,
bonnet of gobelin lace and gold, diamond orna-
ments. Mrs. Burdekin, Mayoress of Sydney, was
charmingly attired in cream crepe de chine and
bonnet of cream roses; she carried a white sun-
shade with a cluster of real flowers on handle;
and there were many other handsome dresses.
The interval between the arrival of the bride-
groom and that of the bride, who came up the
aisle leaning on the arm of her sturdy old father,
was spent by the spectators in enjoying the con
tortions of someone who after bouncing into the
Governor’s pew had been bounced out, and in staring
at the bridegroom, who endured the hideous
ordeal without a wink; and some of the girls knelt
down and prayed - that they too might marry
a lord. It may be here mentioned that the
women were absolutely unanimous in declaring
that Lord Bertie wore corsets at the altar, and as
we don’t like to hear things of that kind said about
any young man behind his back, we now give his
lordship an opportunity of contradicting an
obviously slanderous assertion proceeding from
the lips of envy. When the Governor
arrived (we give this as a remarkable i‘
not an absolutely unique fact) “God Save
the Queen ” was not played, and, furthermore,
one of the ushers in charge of the reserved seats
actually approached his Excellency (who walked
ahead of Lady Carington) with : “ Are you one or
the guests, sir?” Then the Baron raised his eye-
brows and said he was and walked into the guber-
natorial pew, and the usher’s forehead was in-
stantly bedewed with large beads of perspiration.
Good old usher! This appears to show that
Governor Carington doesn’t go to church quite as
often as he should. The bridegroom greeted the
bride with a broad smile, but you cou’dn’t
hear either of them make their responses to
the clergyman, who, however, must have, by
some means or other, extracted from the
happy pair the desired information. The bride
wore a trained gown of rich cream moire,
long tulle veil fastened with a diamond pin
and pearl horseshoe and wreath of bridal flowers,
and carrying a superb bouquet of choicest blos-
soms, consisting of orchids, stephanotis, white
carnations, water-lilies, white roses, calladiurns,
and adianturn ferns, tied up with rich white moire
ribbons. Her four sisters, Eleanor, Marcia,
Margaret, and Jane, who were the brides-
maids, were picturesquely attired in em-
frire frocks and cream dotted French mus-
in, made with bands of Valenciennei inser-
tion around the skirt ; and the bodices were
draped with the same soft lace, empire sashes of
cream moire and high Medici collars. The pre-
sents were very numerous, the wedding-breakfast
took place at the Hotel Metropole, and the newly-
wedded pair are now on their way to England per
Oroya.
* , * #
The most frisky spark at Lord Bertie’s
wedding was the 88-year-old author of the N.S.W.
Divorce Extension Bill.
* * #
At the Bertie-Cox wedding there were
some sensible presents made, amongst them being
six cheques, amounts not stated, but by the names
appended they are not likely to come back
“ N.S.F.” or “ refer to drawer.”
# # #
A certain married man was lately killed on
Mr. L. M‘Stingy’s station. The men started a
subscription for the widow, but the owner refused
to head it as he had “ paid iviry bawbee due till
her hoosban’.” But the overseer gave £5 and
thought no more of it until his next yearly settle-
ment. He was then informed by his beneficent
employer that for the future his salary was to be
reduced by five pounds as he appeared to have
money to squander on indiscriminate charity.
Fact.
# # #
A certain Australian judge (up South)
used to thrash his grown-up daughters with a
walking-stick, set the household “ dorg ” to watch
’em, and then march off to award five years’
“ stretch ” in the name of a shocked and suffering
public to the poor devil who’d started in to kiss a
charmer who could see somebody looking while he
couldn’t.
# # #
Up in Queensland if you remark casually
at a Governor’s reception, a Mayor’s ball, or any
other assemblage where wealth and beauty most
do congregate, “Oh, she was a barmaid before
she was married,” a dozen white-fronted gallants
rush at you and gently enquire what the blank
blank blank of a blank you mean by insulting the
lady they are escorting.
# * *
Some time ago a grey and wealthy (Queens-
land Lothario of some seventy times seven was
tied as solidly as a parson could do the job to a
sweet young thing of seventeen or so. What
made it interesting was that the girl had been a
bosom friend of the old gentleman’s daughters
and had been led by them to treat “ pap” with the
confidence that chipped a spark from the flints of
frozen age. But they got even when on the first
anniversary of the decease of wife Number One
the daily advertisement-sheets contained an “In
Memoriam ” notice announcing to all whom it
might concern that—
Her children still mourn their loss.
Sharper than a serpent’s fang is the tooth of an
ungrateful child, and don’t you forget it !
# * *
Lady Musgrave, widow of the unhappy
Governor who tried to sit on MTlwraith and got
left, has informed some correspondents that even
after this length of time she can’t recall the
slightest pleasant memory of Queensland. Being
a decent woman in a mean place, she couldn’t get
on either with the snobs who resented her sim-
plicity or with the people to whom tinpot royalty
was played out, and naturally she thinks the
whole place hateful and the whole business a
miserable farce. There is some satisfaction, how-
ever, to be extracted from all this. Lady Mus-
grave is hardly doing heavy work at persuading a
shoal of dull-witted aristocrats to plague us with
their presence. Queensland might do worse than
AN HEROIC REMEDY.
FARMER (in railway carriage, to young ladies who are being pestered by flies): “YOU JUST
WAIT A LITTLE, LEDDIES, I’LL LIGHT MY PIPE AND THAT WILL
KILL EVERYTHING STRAIGHT OFF.”
hire her to lecture on “ colonial experience ’’before
the royal family and all the nobility. It might
save us from many an infliction, and we need
saving badly.
# * #
Miss E. Constance Stone, a native of St.
Kilda, Melbourne, and M.D., C.M.,of a Canadian
University-why on earth didn’t she get her
degree in Melbourne, as theprofession sneer at all
American degrees ? —who has just been registered
by the Victorian Medical Board, is the first Aus-
tralian lady doctor to be granted registration in
Australia. Secretary .Williams, of Melbourne
Hospital, said the other day that ere long ladies
would be resident doctors at that institution.
# * #
Since the S.M.- Herald’s article on out-
door sleeping in Sydney was burst up by a
Bulletin scribe, domain-hunting has been as
popular as “ slumming ” was once in London.
# # #
There was a tremendous rush for berths
aboard the Oceana when it became known that
she would pick up Prince Albert Victor and carry
him to England from Bombay. By the way, here
is a slab of the address of welcome presented to
Prince Collars and Cuffs aforesaid by some Bom-
bay niggers:—
“ A Prince independent in dignity, high in beauty and
grace, as lovely as- the moon, the world boasts of the
abilities of him descended from a Royal line most exalted.
Born to an Heir-Appareat at whose feet the highest
heavens do reverence, to whom the world far and wide
pays homage, the confronting enemy yields readily to his
sword. Descended from a line of Emperors who are fit to
occupy the very firmament of heaven as their throne, for
the display of whose glory the world is not wide enough,
Victoria, just and righteous, whose righteousness has
made the world like Arzhang.”
* * #
Manager Dibbs, of the Commercial, has
federated up to chairman of the Australian Bank-
ing Association, whose headquarters are Mel-
bourne. This Association tries to choke the
sucking bankers off embezzlement, Allpressism,
turf, and ballet, over to the pastures of Adam
Smith, Gilbart, H. G. Turner, and all the eminent
banking writers. But the young fellows ask—
What’s the good? because the best positions are
held by nincompoops whose fathers have big bank-
ing accounts, the Cock Salmons. So the Two-
Pound-a-Weeker fists the till.
* * *
South African sassiety has only just com-
menced to adore dear Lady Loch ere she is ordered
to return home on account of her health. In
truth, Lady Loch has aged ten years since the
Melbourne land-boom burst, and is now but a
wreck of the painfully condescending personage
whose virtues were rewarded with a diamond pre-
sentation. By the way, they say that the duty
paid on those jewels has been refunded to Ben-
jamin Benjamin somehow.
# # *
When the dapper Mr. Henry Hart
Lazarus, of Sydney, was sentenced for a sub-
stantial forgery to the comparatively mild term of
four years’ incarceration, some heartless wag
wrote on the ticket of his office-door: “Back in
four years.” The callous joker did not know
the value of the cards up Mr. Lazarus’ sleeve, for
Mr. L. has been released after serving a little
more than half his sentence. The old time
Lazarus had no friends but the dogs, his modern
namesake has heaps.
# # #
It is highly gratifying to be at last able to
chronicle a striking instance where muscle is to be
subordinated to mind and where the mind is to be
cultivated even to se^heticism—“and hang the
expense.” A few days ago an advertisement
appeared in the Albury Banner requiring the
services of a tutor for a family in the country. In
reply to an application for the “ billet” the follow-
ing letter has been received —names and addresses,
for obvious reasons, suppressed ;
Dear Sir,—ln reply to your letter, applying to me for
the position of tutor to my family, I beg to state that I
will be happy to arrange with you should we come to
terms. My arrangements consist oflst. A well-
grounded English education, with drawing for one or
more pupils ; also singing ; and 2nd : French for one or
two pupils. At present I have no piano but am most
anxious that my children should learn music, and it
much depends upon the tutor whether he teaches music
or not.
I would give for a salary the sum of £3O per annum,
without music, and should I get an instrument before the
term of engagement expires, we shall then be able to
come to other arrangements
The above salary I paid to my children’s former tutor,
who was a Professor of Mathematics, and had the highest
testimonials and certificates, and taught for me French,
drawing, algebra, and would also have taught Latin and
Greek had I required them, &c., &c., &c.
Here is a man abreast of the times ! Prepared to
lavish a whole £3O a year in the noble cause of
education !
# # #
That little picnic given to the Conference
delegates by Speaker Davies, turned out to be an
exceedingly “ wet ” function. The return journey
from Bayswater to Melbourne —only an hour’s
ailway ride—was about the wettest portion of a
ong day’s liquor. A glance into the special train,
with its special drinV ing fittings, as the grave and
reverend seigniors .were borne upon their boozy
way was not calculated to raise the market price
of political reputations. Every delegate appeared
to have hold of a bottle, and along the floor of
this special canteen ran a rivulet of spilt liquor, on
whose bosom floated a myriad of corks. Accord-
ing to a hasty summary of the dead marines each
delegate must have put away two quarts of some-
thing before the special was half through to its
destination. In justice to Parkes it must be ad-
mitted that he took ro hand in the orgie, having
been brought to bed by indigestion contracted at
the banquet held two nights previously. By the
way, The Bulletin has a dim recollection that
Speaker Davies, K.C.M.G., first came before public
notice as an apostle of piety and teetotal prin-
ciples.
The Mormons are “going bung,” so tai
as polygamy is concerned, and the game is almost
up, for they say that the Joe Smith and Brigham
Young of the present day is opposed to polygamy
and is going to do without ’em, except the youngest
and best-looking, on the same principle as the
African chief goes without ’em when the missionary
converts him, although Bishop Colenso and Gordon
said Christianity would have to allow polygamy
out of regard for the present weakness of the
black flesh. Solomon would be squelched by the
U.S. Legislature. “But look here, see what
beautiful proverbs I wrote.” “ Oh, that be hanged,
you’ve got to pack off 599 of them wives.” “ Well,
hold hard till I have a competitive examination. ”
“No, sir, this job’s got to be done right off.”
“But what can I do with all the pore gals?”
“ Oh, well, put them on the telegraph, telephone,
Post-office windows, and so on.” “Thanks. Well,
after all, it’s a great load off my mind.” A man
with 600 wives, or even four, is no more tangible
than air. He is spread out like goldbeater’s skin.
He thinks a mutton-pie with a feather stuck in it
is spring chicken. Poor Mormon !
# * *
Earl Galloway has escaped by the skin of
his teeth from two charges of having tampered
with little girls. It was his rank which saved
him. The recent Cleveland-street abominations
have additionally emphasised the advantages of
being a lord or a lord’s pimp. The present Earl’s
little eccentricities appear to run in his family, for
of one of his ancestors (a Bulletin correspondent
points out) Robert Burns wrote thus a hundred
years ago :
What doest thou in that mansion fair?
Flit, Galloway, and find
Some narrow, dirty, dungeon cave,
The picture of thy mind.
No Stewart art thou Galloway ;
The Stewarts were all brave.
Besides the Stewarts were but fools,
Not one of them a knave.
Bright ran thy line, 0 Galloway,
Thro’ many a far-famed sire ;
So ran the far-famed Roman way,
And ended in a mire.
* * *
Around the tree at Katoomba, where
Wentworth, Lawson, and Blaxland finished their
first attempt to cross the Blue Mountains in 1813,
the N.S.W. Government built a wall and erected
a fence. On a plate may be read : “ This wall
and fence was erected, &c. (Signed), J. S.
Farnell.”
# # #
Lord Carington’s successor is said to be
the Marquis of Lothian, who is nearly 60 years of
age. His wife is a daughter of the Duke of Buc-
cleuch —their Mid-Lothian estates conjoin—and
they have a grown-up family of two sons and six
daughters.
# # *
It is related that at the funeral obsequies
of a departed American merchant, the good pastor
rose and said gently, with an infinite compassion
in his tones, to the golden-haired widow whose
crape-veil and aureoline locks were mingled with
the wreaths of immortelles that strewed the coffin:
“ My dear madam, what shall the choir sing to
console you ? Is there any melody of which your
LITTLE TOTTIE.
I love little Tottie
Her heart is so warm,
And if I don’t vex her
She’ll do me no harm.
Site hops in the ballet,
So blithe and so gay ;
And I am her chappie,
Provided I pay.
I’ve bought little Tottie
Ten rings and a brooch,
I also supply her
With dresses and coach ;
It givesher much pleasure
Her limbs to display,
And when I’ve no money
She’ll send me away.
I'll love little Tottie
As long as I can,
Until she takes up with
A wealthier man;
I’ll feed her and stroke her
And keep her so snug,
And Tottie shall call me
A bloomin’ young mug.
B.F.


The SYDNEY DEPOSIT BANK,
90 —KING STREET-90
Established 1885.
Agencies in London and throughout Australia.
Overdrafts granted against Deposit of Deeds,
And all the usual banking business transacted.
The following are the Kates of Interest allowed
for Fixed Deposits :
l
3 Years
12 Months
G Months
3 Months
per cent, allowed on daily balance
per cent.
85 per cent.
per cent.
5* per cent,
of current abcount.
( For the past Four (4) Years a Bonus of One per
Cent, has been paid in addition to the above rates.
This is the first and only Bank in the Colonies
which divides its profits with its depositors.
Communications from the country will bo
promptly attended to.
T. S. RICHARDSON.
General Manager.
Bona-Fide announcement. Highest cash pric
Jiven for all kinds of gent’s left off clothing
Iress-suits for sale or hire. Letters prompt!
attended to by QUITTENTON BRO&, 111
Russell street, MELBOURNE. (New numhe' 1
163.)
When next yon bake try Parnell's Snow-wiitr PAtent
Roller Flour,’and j our bread wilt bo as whiteias snow.
Write for plane £lO Building sites, Perth,
-Western Australia. Intercolonial Investment
Company, Limited, 9G Bathurst street, Sydney.
ď
CONSUMPTION
BRONCHBTIS
SCROFULA
COUGHORCOLD
Throat Affection
Wasting of Flesh
Or any Disease where the Throat and Lung
are Inflamed, Lack of Strength or Nerve
Jroivcr. you can be Jielieved and Cured by
SCOTT’S
EMULSION
pyUE- COO LIVER OIL
With Hypophosphites.'
Palatable as Milk.
Ash for Scott’s Emulsion, and let no «B«
planntlon or soli citation induce you to aecepi
a substitute.
Sold by all Chemists.
SCOTT & BOWNE, New York.
Robertson’s
Whisky.
dCSOO PRIZES.
/ * f ' - * r **'*•■
‘IT 01 !>«»
STIIXtVKK) :■
TT cr. ‘ l l ovo -T J« 01
:-> sv _ .
I H I M A V AV V XO'AIO
Pamphlets from the
CO.,
Limited,
■ V.l
Oil A KLOTTE I
’LACE, SYDNEY
. . - .' ! ■ v * T . .. ill*. ,
late husband was fond—that was his favourite, as
it were?” The widow’s sobs were suspended for a
moment, and then, slowly raising her head like a
flower beaten down by the rain when the sun
shines again, she said, wearily: “John was not
much on the sing, but if he had any favourite
hymn I think ’twas ‘We won’t go home till
morning.’ If the choir would sing that it would
be very comforting to John.”
* # #
Melbourne Standard, which is generally
abasing itself before Lord Hopetoun, on some pre-
text or other, recently besought that smooth
young angel to use the “ social influence his posi-
tion and personal character give him ” towards
abolishing the stove-pipe hat in Australia.
Without stopping to consider whether the persis-
tent appearance of Hopetoun in a brown billy
cock would effect a change in the headgear of
junior civil servants, and such like, The Bulletin
begs to mention that British commerce is entirely
dependent upon the stove-pipe hat. Put British
commerce in a “ straw-yard,” or even in the most
serious style of felt billycock, and it commands
no respect whatever. There is an influential breed
of Englishmen—a breed imported into Australia
and cultivated with great success—which would
rapidly become extinct but for the influence of
stove-pipe hats. Those horrible black monuments
of respectability are already necessary to the com-
mercial, mt to say the professional, life of
Australia, and until someone invents one other
kind of hat in which city magnates will not be
objects of public derision, and cockshies for
larrikins —until then, these representative slaves
of the stove-pipe must support their tyrant, even
if the thermometer is 2500° in the natural shade.
How would Parkes look in a cricketing cap ?
# * #
A quid pro quod, as the man said when he
was sentenced to “twenty shillings or seven days.”
* * *
A correspondent of the pious Melbourne
D.T. declares that he has heard people say : “ I
mean to go to St. Paul’s to hear Dr. Bromby’s
singing-girls, and see how they look in their
toggery.”
» # #
A London writer asserts that at an Indian
hill-station he tried to get up a cricket-match, Co-
Respondents against the World, but found the
sides too unequal. There were 19 representatives
of the Cos. and only three Worldlings.
# * #
That bankruptcy motion of Lewis Scott’s
at the recent Sydney School of Arts meeting was
a mean piece of blue metal to “ fl ing ”at a brother
scribe.
* # *
The Queensland railway commissioners
intend to get a 24-hours service between Brisbane
and Sydney or be hanged for train-wrecking.
They’ve arranged so that it’ll soon be down to 31
hours and then, on some parts of the line, you
won’t well overtake the overland express if you
miss it by more than 25 minutes.
# * *
The London papers complain of the snob-
bishness which hunts down “royal” persons when
out sight-seeing or shopping. We see nothing in
it, it’s all the robbed public ever gets for its money.
# # #
From a London paper :
Mr. Rupert Carrington, once well-known in racing
circles here, but who has for some years now been acting
as aide-de-camp to his brother, Lord Carrington, in New
South Wales, is engaged to be married to a Miss Horsfall.
Let us hope that the bride-elect is blessed with a fortune,
and that we may soon welcome this scion of the house of
Smith-Payne-Smith back to his native laud ; for after all,
pleasant place as Sydney is, it must be very like exile to a
man used to Newmarket and Epsom, the Turf and Marl-
borough Clubs, and the Gaiety Theatre.
Are you listening, Horsfall ?
# * •
A new kind of ink has lately been invented
by a Frenchman, who declares that it will fade off
paper, without leaving the least mark, in a week.
Moral for girls : When you receive a love-letter,
secure the shadow ere the substance fades. In
other words, get it photographed.
* # #
An extraordinary will case is reported
from ’Frisco over the demise of Blythe, a mil
lionaire, his estate, left without a will, being over
a million sterling. He lived with a Miss Dicker-
son, who tried to prove that she was his wife, but
in vain, her claim being upset by four brothers
named Williams, from Cheshire, England, sons of
Blythe’s sister. Just as they were chuckling over
dividing up a quarter of a million apiece, Miss
Dickerson sprung upon them a genuine will left
by Blythe, leaving all to an illegitimate daughter
of his, not by Miss Dickerson. The right person
thus gets the money after all. Which is singular.
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
Old Kates, of Allora, Darling Downs,
wavers between the theory that the squatters find
rabbits pay better than cattle and the belief that
Providence sent the rabbits to wipe the squatters
out and clear the way for selectors who’d breed
against the vermin and start a swarm of brats col-
lecting rabbit-tail on every square mile of Aus-
tralian mud.
AT THE BOTTOM OF A WELL.
[TRANSLATED FROM THE FRENCH FOR THE BUL-
LETIN BY LANCE LENTON.]
Great was the consternation in the village when
the catastrophe became known. Men hurried from
their work in the fields, and women left off gossip
ing. Claude, the farmer, and Ohesime, the well-
borer, had been employed in cleansing the Well on
the farm when suddenly the cut stone lining at the
top gave way, a terrible oaving-in ensued, and the
two men were buried alive !
“Only a miracle can have saved them from
instant death,” was the cry; “let us hasten and
try to rescue them.”
They went to work with a will. Old Claude,
the farmer, was much loved in the surrounding
country parts, and there were few families with
whom he had not some acquaintance. The other,
Onesime, was a fine young man, a little caddi,sh
perhaps, but nevertheless liked by everyone, and
the dreadful accident of which he and the farmer
were the victims had excited all. The rescuing
party relieved each other and vied in working the
hardest. The women prayed. During all that
night the work was continued by the light of
torches, till the moon rose.
But where was Claude’s wife? She had been
hanging out some linen to dry when she heard the
cries uttered by the two .men ; the shock was top
much for her ; she swooned, and they had not been
able to bring her round. “Poor woman ! she loves
her husband so much, in spite of the difference in
their ages. He was so good to her—not only to
her, but to everybody.” Such were the remarks
made by the villagers. No satisfactory result wis
arrived at after a night passed in ceaseless eji-
A ROSE BY ANY OTHER NAME.
SQUATTER: “YOUR NAME?”
SWAGSMAN: “WALTER CADWALLADER.”
SQUATTER: “HOW DO YOU SPELL IT?”
SWAGSMAN: “OH, PUT DOWN ‘BROWN.’”
deavours to extricate the men from their seemingly
hopeless position. The mass of earth to clear away
was considerable, as the fall had been great, owing
to the extreme depth of the well. Despair was upon
every face. By placing their ears against the
earth they thought to hear some sounds from the
men below, but in vain. And yet at the bottom
of that well, since the accident, one man had been
uttering loud cries of despair and entreatyj but
they were broken against the stones which were
only half a foot from his mouth ; whilst he oould
hear the least sound above his head-the stroke of
picks, the wheeling of barrows and the voices of
the relief-party. All these he could hear dis-
tinctly, and in mortal agony he tried to calculate
the progress of their work.
That man was Onesime, the well-borer. An
enormous stone, which in its fall had been arrested
by two juttings in the partition-wall of masonry,
formed an arch over the spot where, fortunately,
he was sitting at the time of the accident. Since
then he had remained in that position, his head
bent and his knees meeting his teeth—his |body
immersed in the slime and mud, but still hi was
ab’e to breatlie. A long fifcmfe above enat led a
little air to reach him. “My God ! oh, my Qod !”;
he repeated, “do not let me die thus ! Coi|rape,
friends, courage, you can sAve me. I anU alive
yet! Yes, they are working well, they are there !
Well done, they are coming ! Why do theyfctop?
So, so, there is hope—you will not leave Us en-
tombed, for there are two of us—one an old?man;
Claude, a man whom you all love, a fathejf of a
family. Save him, save us both. Speakithen;
Master,Claude, why don’t you speak? You are
not dead ! I do not wish you dead! They will
eave me here all alone ! My God !to you I resign
my soul. Our Father who art in Heaven—l must
get out of this—at* once —I would live. There is
light above, the green trees and the blue heavens.”
“There is love also, is there not Onesime ? ” “ Ah,
Father Claude! You are not dead then! We
shall be rescued. Why have you been so silent
during the night ?” “ There is love above also, is
there not, Onesime ? ” replied Claude. “ Love is a
beautiful thing, is it not? Ah, what a dreadful
thing it is to be left to die a horrible death, is it
not, Onesime?”
“ What are they doing above ? ” asked Onesime.
“They have ceased working—they are speaking—
they are singing together.”
“They are reciting the prayers for the dead,
Onesime, for we are as dead men. We have said
good-bye to all above, even love itself.”
“ Horror ! They are fools, they would kill us ■
lam not dead ! lam living i I want to live !
Help! Murder!! ” Onesime gathered all his forces
in crying aloud for succour. All his soul, all the
power in his body was thrown into one loud cry,
which travelled no further than the walls of his
sepulchre. Exhausted, he ceased and began to
weep. But the voice of his companion continued:
“ I also, as you, Onesime—l cry in thinking that
love exists no more for me. I have tasted of the
joys of the world; that was, it is true, when I was
in declining years. My hair has become blanched,
my brow furrowed and my face wrinkled. Alas !
I had not long to dwell upon my happiness. That
is why I would make up for lost time as I knew I
had not long to live. 1 loved Martha with all the
love that the heart of a man could contain without
breaking. I was steeped in a passion for her,
body and soul. The reading of romances made
me hold up ray head, for in them I read how
heroes loved their mistresses. Though at the time
I was an old man 1 loved Martha with the love of
a young man, with the love of an old father for
his little orphan, of a soldier for his dag, of an
exile lor his country, or a devotee for his God. I
loved, Onesime, as you love life. '
‘‘Oh, yes, life! Life is sweet! I would live!'”
cried Onigiipe. ,
“It vas partly through the pity I had for her,”
continued Claude, “ when I saw her for the first
time. She was worthy of it. You knew her then,
Onesime.” .
■ “ Never mind your history, father Claude, your
talking prevents niy hearing them above, and they
are speaking.”
“ Listen, then, Onesime, they are saying that
weared.ead.”
In fact, the following words saluted their ears
“What does it matter where they are buried ; is
it not better to leave them where they are than to
bring them to the ligl t. mangled and crushed ?”
“The wretch !” cried Onesime. “But; 1 as their
bodies should repose n consecrated ground,” con-
tinued .the voice, wh ch 1 1 y now recognised as
that of the Cure of the village, “go on, friends
—workaway!” A confuted murmur was the re-
sponse of the labourers. Onesime could hardly
breathe at last in trying do catch the 'sound of
their voices. The perspiration oozed from his
every pore. Then in a short time the strokes of
picks and the rolling of wheelbarrows wfere heard
again. The rescuers had resumed their work.
“You knew Martha, did you not, Onesime,
when She was so unfortunate? ” then asked Claude
—“ they called her the..‘Fpupdiing.’ From six
years of age she had lived upon charity*. She
worked the shuttle at a weaver’s. Beaten by her
master and his children, girded at in the streets,
she never knew what it was to have a doll, a
caress or a kiss, and the poor child had need of
being loved. I loved her, as I have told you, and
she in time grew to love me, for I surrounded her
with comfort’s. In time I proposed marriage to
her, but she could not believe that I spoke
seriously. I told her I was rich, that I was
esteemed by all the villagers, and my reason for
speaking thus was because she was the woman of
my choice —the woman I loved and whom X
wished to gain. When she saw that I was
sincere, how joyous she-was, and with what rap-
ture she expressed her gratitude ! She forgot all
propriety, thanked me again and again. You
know, Onesime, for you often came to the farm —
you know how happy she made me ! ”
“ Father Claude, father Claude, I hear, I can
feel, the strokes of picks knocking the stones near
us.”
“ You have seen with what trifles she amused
me, and how I floated on her.”
“ The pick-strokes are lighter, I can distinguish
the sound of iron against the flmts.”
“You have seen the kisses she gave me —you
have often heard her protestations of love, her
vows of constancy.”
“ They are nearing us, the_ earth is trembling
all around me —they are coming! ”
“ Ah, well, Onesime, that woman lied then, she
deceived me ! ”
“lean see the daylight, father Claude, the
opening is getting larger above, I can feel the air
upon my brow—we are saved! There, above, I
can see the blue sky—there it is ! Come, come, I
am saved ! ” ,
“Wretch! you are lost, you are as one dead !
[ tell you that woman deceived me, and you are
Her lover ! ”
“Father Claude, I swear ”
“ Then you shall die ! You shall die, crushed,
broken, and mangled by that big stone which is
suspended above your head. Your brains will be
dashed out and your bones broken. You will
linger for a few short moments —too short, alas —
in agony. You shall die ! ”
“ They are here—l see them —help, help ! I
am alive yet, save me! ” ■ - . •
“ You shall die ! How is it that you had no
warning to tell you when we descended this well
that you would never leave it alive ? Your con-
science must be dead to all remorse and feeling.
And you believed in a lasting impunity.”
“ Help ! Help!! Help !! ! ”
“ They shall not save you from my vengeance,
Onesime. I have planned all this beforehand —
prepared it all myself. It is I who built these
juttings in the masonry for sustaining that stone
which is about to Crush you while I make sport of
your agony. It was I who, at the cost of my own
life, prepared this kind of niche where I am
sheltered and from whence in my hate I could
have seen you suffer throughout the night had my
old eyes not prevented me from discerning yon.”
“ They are h.ere!” ~ ,
■“Not yet. When they are near us, when you
need only stretch out your hand to be brought tc
the light and life, with my foot I shall push the
stone? Then I shall be revenged upon you ! ’
“ Mercy ! Pity !”
“ Had you mercy or pity for me ?” _ . , .
“ I fim innocent ; I don’t know your wife.' T
have never seen her. I do not love her ! I hate
her!” _
“ The wretch, he denies his love !” , _
“Pardon, pardon ! I want to live f I cry pity,
father Claude, in the name of Martha ! She will
die i* I die—you will kill her !” _ . 1
“They are alive ; I can see Onesime,” said the
Cure above ; “ make one more trial!”.
“ Ask pardon of God,” said Claude to Onesime,
“ say your last prayers ere you die !”
The enormous stone was gradually sinking down.
At the same moment the workers above heard a
terrible noise, and, in their terror, fled some dis-
tance from the spot. Then a second falkof earth
took place.
Thus died together the old husband and his
enemy, the young lover.
Lord Arthur Somerset, of Cleveland-club
notoriety, calmlv explains that he did not flee to
Constantinople—where, by the way, he offered his
services to the Sultan —for self-protection, but to
shield certain persons in high places including a
lady of rank whom he took to the “club ” think-
ing it was an ordinary house of assignation.
Here is the absconding “nobleman’s” description
as placarded throughout England ; '
On a warrant charged with committing gross acts of
indecency . . . Henry Arthur George Somerset, com-
monly called Lord Arthur Somerset, fate Major, Royal
Horse Guards (Blue) ; age 38, height six feet one or two
inches, complexion and hair fair (bald), whiskets and
moustache carroty, prominent no e e, thin build, slightly
round shoulders, gentlemanly appearance.


f>
I
M
K
ci
O
I
£
s
T
U
DELISSA i PHILLIPS
Street.
A
NOTICE.
SLANDERED MEMORY.
NEW NOVEL.
Is Commenced in
Family herald part for January,
which contains also the continuation of
J^EIGHBOURS.
I NEW NOVEL,
By the Author of “Tiff,” “A Great Mis-
take,” &o.
And the
pHRTSTMAS DOUBLE NUMBER.
Containing
ORANGES AND LEMONS.
A complete Novel,
By the author of “ Wedded Hands,” “Madam’s
Ward,” *
&o
Also, complete Stories, Essays, Answers to
Correspondence, Cookery, Miscellanea, Enigma?
Charades, Riddles, &o.
pi A MIL Y HERALD PART for JANUARY.
The
FAMILY HERALD may be had in Half-yearly
Volumes and in Monthly Parts of all Colonial
Booksellers and Newsagents : or the Monthly Part
direct from W. Stevens, 421 Strand, London,
England, for 14s. per annum, post free.
£5O reward £5O
FRAUD and DECEIT.
In order to protect the people from being
defrauded and cheated, the American Hop
Bitters Company offers the above Reward
for the arrest and conviction of any person
or persons refilling the American Hop Bitters
Company’s bottles, and for selling any vile
nostrum or compound as the genuine and
original Dr. Soule’s American Hop Bitters,
or for counterfeiting the Company’s Label—
a Bunch of Green Hops on a White Label,
with Black Letters.
DR. SOULE’S
AMERICAN
HOP ~ BITTERS
(A MEDICINE, NOT A DRINK),
CONTAINS
HOPS, BUCHU, MANDRAKE
DANDELION.
And the Purest and Best Medical Qualities of all
Other Bittern
THEY CURE
All Diseases of the Stomach, Bowels, Blood, Liver,
Kidneys and Urinary Organs, Nervousness, Sleeplessness,
Female Complaints and Drunkenness.
THOUSANDS UPON THOUSANDS!!!
of testimonials of the most wonderful cures, voluntarily
sent us, we do not publish them, as they do not make the
cure. It is our medicine, Dr. Soule’s American Hop
Bitters that makes the cure. It has never failed and
never can. We will give reference to any one for any
disease similar to their own if desired, or will refer to any
neighbour, as there is not a neighbourhood in the known
world but can show its cures by Dr. Soule’s American
Hop Bitters.
NO OTHER GENUINE. TAKE NO OTHER.
' HOT aud COLD \
Seawatee Baths,
Warrnamgoob, Victoria.
HYGIENIC, CURATIVE.
CORKS
SCIATICA, EHEUMATISM,
Hervous & Skin Diseases.
Testimonials from all parts ol fho
Colonies.
Water direct from Southern Ocean
pumped by eras motor, retaining all
natural qualities; free from objec-
tions of Bay water. Large swim-
ming basins for ladies and gentle-
men, Marble plunge baths, hand-
somely appointed. Bracing air,
charming scenery, fishing, shooting,
beautiful drives place Warrhambool
un the front rank as a sanatorium. /
Yon have
Nervous Debility
Sick Headache,
Bilious Compl’nts
Fever & Ague,
WastingofFlesh
Sleepless Nights
Neuralgia,
Or any disease of the
Liver, Bowels or Kidneys, Lack of
Strength or Nerve Power.
you can be Relieved and Cured by
LARMBR’S
CELEBRATED
Price, 2s 6d & ss ; Post, Is extra*
Prepared only bv—
O-A-Ilsrs *<sc 00..
Chemists,
78 KING STREET, SYDNEY,
For Sole by all ChemisU.
M.W.&Co.
NOW ACKNOWLEDGED
r>THE BEST
IN THE MARKET
WH ISKV
h
M.W.iC!
j; SO LD
EVERYWHERE
Study your Syea.
CjPECTACLER of every description to salt, nil sight*'
from Is. to ss, Pkbbmm, ss. to 10s. Cfcmge for testing
your sight. Price List and a Treatise on “ Vision and- tile
Use of Spectacles,” sent Free.
W. K. TOOHK, Hperlsele Maker A Optletnnt
418 0 SOROS STRRBT. SVDNST,
A warded Xine Medal* at variant Kxhihitinn*
Amusements.
IJI HEAT RE ROYAL.
Under the Management of Messrs. Williamson,
Garner and Musgrove.
Leasee, Mr. S. Lazar. Treasurer, Mr. Geo. L. Goodman.
IMMENSE SUCCESS OF
LITTLE LORD FAUNTIiEROY,
By Mrs. Frances Hodgson Burnett.
LITTTLE I,OKI) FAUNTLEROY .. MISS HOPKINS.
Admission—-55., Ss. and la.
JJ E R MAJESTY’S THEATRE.
Lessee and Manager Mr. Geo. Rignold.
Doors open at 7; commencing 7.80. Carriages at 10.45.
LAST TWO NIGHTS I LAST TWO NIGHTS 1
Shakespeare’s Fairy Comedy,
A MIDSUMMER NIGHT'S DREAM.
Box Office at Theatre from 10 to 5. Prices as usual.
J. P. Macdonald, Acting-Manager.
QRITERION THEATRE
Sole Proprietor .... Mr. John Solomon.
Under the Management of Messrs. Brough and Boucicault.
General Manager ... Mr. Mayne.
Doors Open, 7. Overture, 8. Carriages, 10.25.
LAST NINE APPEARANCES OP THE
Bltorcill - BOUCICAULT COMEDY COMPANY*
For Many Months.
LAST NIGHTS! LAST NIGHTS 1
of the Unrivalled Comedy,
CA.STE! CASTE!
(By arrangement with Mr. Geo. Rignold.)
Admission ... £2 2s. to Is.
Box Plan at Nicholson’s. Carriages at 10.25 p.m.
Joe Davis,-Business Manager.
JgONDI AQUARIUM.
The Most Popular
PICNIC AND PLEASURE GROUNDS OF AUSTRALIA.
The Famous Switchback Railway, conveying
Passengers from Cliff to Cliff daily.
Splendid Asphalt Open-Air Skating-Rink Free to Visitors.
Open Daily from 10 a.m to 10 p.m.
Admission, Is.; Children, 6d. Trams to Gate—Fare, 4d
fjIHE CYCLO RAM A!
The Artistic Wonder of the Age!
A Picture Lesson in History !
A Revelation in Art 1
A Perfect Realisation of the Horrors of Battle !
Open Daily, 10 to 10.
Admission, 2/- ... ... Children, 1/-
Business Announcements.
JAPANESE CURIOS,
Oriental -f- Decorative + Art + Fabrics,
&0., &c., &c.
17 HUNTER STREET,
SYDNEY.
Messrs, (HAS. T J. BUVBS anil CO,
Known as the
JAPANESE siio:e% ;
.144 George Street, Sydney,
Have, in consequence of the increased support of
the Artistic. Public, taken the j.
larger and mere Convenient Premises,
17 Hunter Street, Sydney.
We desire the honour of a. Visit of Inspection
to our NEW SHOW-ROOMS.
We have Just Opened from London, the
Latest Novelty in Art Fabrics—a material in all
the sweetest Art Shades :
Goblin Blue, Chartruse Green, Sage Green,
Cardinal <two shades),
Terr* Cotta, Old Gold, Orange, Yellow,
AT
SIXPENCE a YARD!
Impossible to tell it from Liberty Silk.
1 Yard to 40 in the Piece!
Country Customers send Stamps for any
Quantity. Post Free by return.
for DRESSES. for DRAPING.
jgHORTHAND.
First-Class all-round Shorthand and Corres-
ponding Clerk DISENGAGED. Verbatim Note-
taker,-used to Mercantile,- Legal, and Press work.
Typewriting if required. F. H. C., fiB Ivy-street,
Darlington.
THE BALLARAT COFFEE PALACE,
LyniAßn Street, Ballarat.
VISITORS to the Golden City will find every
convenience at the above Establishment.
The Only Coffee Palace in Ballarat.
REID ft SONS 7 ... Proprietor*
Furniture, See.
EWT O N AND LAMB.
FURNITURE and PIANOFORTE
WAREHOUSEMEN,
UPHOLSTERERS
SPRING and O’CONNELL STREETS.
EASY CHAIRS, for Parlour, Library, or Bed-
rooms, new designs, covered to order, in
any material.
PIANOFORTES, by R. LIPP and SOHN.
L. NEUFELD and other Celebrated
Makers at WHOLESALE PRICES. Newton
and Lamb.
BAGATELLE BOARDS, Portable, various
sizes.
BEDROOM SUITES, complete, in various
Woods, and very handsome designs, with
7 feet Wardrobes, or with smaller Wardrobes for
single rooms. Great variety.
NEWTON and LAMB,
Furniture Warehousemen,
SPRING AND O’CONNELL STREETS.
BEDROOM SUITES, fashionable early
English designs—Wardrobe 4 feet, with
silvered plate-glass door : Washstand, with marble
top and tile back, Towel Rail; Toilet Table,
with Swing_ Glass attached; and Two Cane-
Seated Chairs, 14 guineas.
BEDDING MANUFACTURERS.
AND
SHOW BOOMS AND MANUFACTORY:
NEWTON & LAMB,
O’Connell and Spring Streets.
đ
CANVAS FOLDING
COTS, for camping
out. A cheap occasional
bed light, strong, and
handy, 10s. Gd.
Newton & Lamb,
DINING TABLES, with patent extending
screws, from 5 feet long and up to 20 feet.
WALNUT TELESCOPIC DINING
TABLES with extra leaves, strongly
made, £3 10s.
HALL FURNITURE. HATSTANDS and
CHAIRS. LARGE ASSORTMENT.
NEWTON & LAMB.
r IBRARY” FURNITURE, CENTRE and
1 i SIDE TABLES, BOOKO \SES, SECRE-
TARIES, READING and LOUNGE CHAIRS.
COMMODE CHAIRS, BIDETS, with Pan.
SHAVING STANDS, NEWTON and
LAMB.
JAPANESE BLINDS, White or Green (extra,
quality); fitted with pulleys and cord, 6 x 3,
(is. Gd.; BxB, 95,; 9 x 8,9 s. Gd.; 10 x 8,10 s. Gd.;
12x8, 12s. Gd.; 12x10, 15s, Newton & Lamb,
Furniture Warehousemen, Spring and O’Connell
Streets.
EASY CHAIRS for Parlour, Library or Bed-
rooms. New Designs covered to order in
any material. Newton & Lamb.
Self-adjusting chair and couch,
for Invalids and Medical Men.
ROCKING EASY CHAIRS, elegant and
restful —a speciality. Newton & Lamb.
ď
MERIOAN PATENT
SHUT UP
CLOTHES DRYER.
135 feet of hanging space.
Very Cheap.
NEWTON and LAMB.
đ
(
ANYAS
j
FOLDING
CHAIRS.
Substantial and Light.
Suitable for Shipboard and
Verandah.
Prior Vert Low.
NEWTON and LAME
Furniture Warehousemen,
Spring and OConnet.l Streets.
GARDEN SEATS, 6ft.. lon*, Rustic Cast-iron
Standards, 14s. 6d., 195., 255., 82s. 6d.
Newton and Lamb.
Yerandah chairs.
INDIAN LONG ARM LOUNGES.
RATTAN VERANDAH LOUNGES, from
15a.; and large variety of Chairs, from
10s. 6d.; special designs, extra quality. Newton
and Lamb, Furniture Warehousemen, Spring and
O’Connell Streets. -
E W T ON
AN D LAMB.
FURNITURE and PIANOFORTE
WAREHOUSEMEN.
CABINETMAKERS, UPHOLSTERERS
BEDDING MANUFACTURERS.
SPRING
Show Rooms and Manufactory :
[NO and O’CONNELL STREETS.
THE DISCRIMINATING SCISSORS.
The House of Hate.
Mine enemy builded well, with the soft blue hills
_ in sight;
But betwixt his house and the hills I builded a
house, for spite;
And the name thereof T set in stonework over the
. ; . gate,
With the carving of bats and apes ; and I called
it the House of Hate.
And the front was alive with masks of malice and
of despair,
Horned demons that leered in stone, and women
with serpent hair;
That whenever his glance would rest on the soft
hills far and blue,
ft must fall on mine evil work, and my hatred
should pierce him through.
And I said, “I will dwell herein, for beholding
my heart's desire
On my foe,” and I. knelt; and fain had brightened
the hearth with fire ;
But the brands they would hiss and die, as with
curses a strangling man,
And the hearth was cold from the hour that the
House of Hate began.
And I called in a voice of power, “Make ye
merry, all friends of mine,
In the hall of my House of Hate, where is plentiful
store and wine,
We will drink unhealth together, unto him I have
foiled and fooled !”
And they stared and they passed me by; but I
scorned to be thereby schooled.
And I ordered my board for feast, and I drank in
the topmost seat
Choice grape from a curious cup ! and the first it
was wonder-sweet;
But the second was bitter indeed, and the third
was bitter and black,
And the gloom of the grave came on me, and I
cast the cup to wrack.
Alone, I was stark alone, and the shadows were
each a fear;
And thinly I laughed, but once, for the echoes
were strange to hear;
And the wind on the stairway howled, as a green-
eyed wolf might cry.
And I heard my heart—l must look on the face of
a man or die !
So I crept to my mirrored face, and I looked, and
I saw it grown
(By the light in my shaking hand) to the like of
the masks of stone :
And with horror I shrieked aloud, as I flung my
torch and fled;
And a fire-snake writhed where it fell, and at mid-
night the sky was red.
And at morn when the House of Hate was ruin,
despoiled of flame,
I fell at my enemy’s feet and besought him to slay
my shame.
But he looked at my eyes and smiled, and his eyes
were calm and great;
“ You rave or have dreamed,” he said ; “ I saw
not your House of Hate !”
It ia a well-known fact, that Herr Rass-
raussen, the celebrated Danish Herbalist has per-
formed many great cures during the past few
years, as his numerous testimonials will prove.
A COUNTRY CORRESPONDENT.
To The Bulletin, —“ Must excuse me this
week, I have no news of any interest except plenty
of rain. Picnic yesterday. Old Reiser dropped
his pistol, it went off and killed him. The rabbit
pest dying out, and so are the fowls with chicken
cholera. The whooping cough and yellow jaundice
have been passed around, and many are staying
home on that account. Slim Jim and his wife
have parted on account; he will not allow her the
Anheuser St. Louis Lager Beer. Hamfat Brown
has just ordered some from the city, and is as
happy as an oyster at high-water mark. —Yours
in the Christian faith, St. Louis.”


Ufco Batho’s Baking Powder.
Hill reminds one of Cardinal
-+aran. It's such a slight eminence, you know..
A. certain venerable politician will sbon
lave an opportunity of again bursting into song
baby 10 CiiXTE - VXIAL Magazink. Text: the new
Bsc Batho’s Baking Powder.
Kyrle Bellow tells an interviewer that
; p «<* Wa-' -a reporter on Melbourne D.T. he
got awo we succeeded Boilew
r,. ;i»r V ° > we succeed _
ru -f ;or -: ; paper— and got £1 100 And we
e ahead of i-Cyrio over binoe.
Buccaneer Stanley has been expressing
his belief that General Gordon was guilty “of dis-
obedience and disloyalty.” So he was, but Stanley
can’t throw stones at him. Two of a trade can
never agree—the Christian buccaneer, Stanley, is
jealous of the posthumous reputation of the
Christian bandit and nigger-butcher, Gordon.
A certain Bostonian, who was much gone
on his wife and never got weary of singing her
praises, was once present at a literary dinner,
where the talk turned on religion. He immediately
exclaimed (his wife was not present)—“My beauti-
ful wife, she is my religion !” The company in
general regarded tire speaker with feelings of any-
thing but approval, and there was a moment of
silence. “Mr. G.” one of the ladies said, break-
ing the silence. “ I have always understood that
a religion to be true must be universal. Is your
wife universal ? ”
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
Government Advertisements.
Department of Public Works,
Sydney, February 18, 1890.
T
ENDERS FOR PUBLIC WORKS
SUPPLIES.
AND
For Conditions, see Government Gazette.
Nature of Works and Supplies.
Bridge, to carry Pumping Main
over Lane Cove River, North
Shore Water Supply
Additions Post and Telegraph'
Office, Bathurst
Courthouse, Newcastle, erection
of (Fresh Tenders)
Bridge, Deep Creek, road Condo-
bolin to Wagga Wagga
Stormwater Sewer, Pyrmont
Bridge road. Glebe, contract 59
S. S.
Bridge over Burrawa River, in
Burrawa (fresh tenders)
Supply of Cast Iron Pipes, Hunter
River Water Supply
xtension of Wharf at Five Dock,
Parramatta River
Bridge over Shugg’s Creek, road
Rydalmere to Carlingford
Removal of Hot Water Service
Pipes, &c., Hospital for the In-
sane, Callan Park
i Footway on Iron Cove Bridge,
I Contract 1. Manufacture and
Supply of Ironwork, Contract
2. Erection, &c.
Annual Supply of Water for
Steam Punt at Spit Ferry, Mid-
dle Harbour
Bridge over Boggy Creek-road,
Condobolin to Hillston
Bridge over Cudgegong River at
Wilbertree
Erection of Waiting Sheds, Wah-
roonga and Roseville, and also
Gatekeepers’ Cottages at Or.
20ohs. North Shore Railway
Additions Wharf, Winglnxm, Man-1
ning River
Additions, Wilcannia Gaol
Erection of Police Quarters, Wel-
lingtoir
Repairs Court House, Coonamble
Additions Police Station, New-!
castle
Repairs to Byron Bay Jetty
Supp’y, &e., of two-ton Crane for!
Cahill's Wharf, Bellinger River
Installation of Electric Light j
Bullock Island, Newcastle
Erection of Police Buildings, Deep-!
water (fresli tenders)
Dates to which
Tenders
can be received
at this office.
Wednesday,
March 5,
at 11 o’clock.
Wednesday,
March 19,
at 11 o’clock.
Wednesday,'
May 14,
at 11 o’clock.
Wednesday,
2nd April,
at 11 o’clock.
BRUCE SMITH.
General Post Office.
Sydney, 17th February, 1890.
TTENTION is directed to Oa/KTTE Notice
inviting Tenders for the conveyance of
mails between Eauabalong and Lake Cndgellieo ;
Richmond and Agnes Banks (Yarramundi); Cargo
and Canangles ; Wilson's Downfall and River-
tree ; Molong and Peak Hill.
Tenders will be received up to sth March next,
and must be addressed to the Secretary to the
Post Office, Sydney.
/COUNTRY STOREKEEPERS, ETC.
Should write or call upon
A. M. MARKS & CO.,
—lmporters of—
Furniture, Pianofortes, Class, Earthenware,
CHINA, FANCY GOODS, ELECTRO PLATE,
CIGARS .t TOBACCONISTS SUNDRIES
SOLE AGENTS FOR
Dawn Cigars and Salonica Turkish Cigarettes.
Special Novelties in all Lines for Christmas Trade.
Price# on Application to—
jR L. IVC. Marks & Co.,
Vickery’s Buildings. 74a Pitt Streeet, Sydney,
DANIEL O’CONNOR.
AND AT LONDON.
Telephone* Ko.-010.
Ask for the
Unequalled
“DAWN” 3d. CIGAR,
Of all
Tobacco nlsts.
—'~V- ' ~~ ~ " --
Store
AND
Hotel
KEEPERS.
Wholesale Agents: A. M. MARKS & Co-, 74a PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
A
ml
¥
DAWSON’S
Sole Agents tor Australasia
VAUGHAN, EOGEKS & CO
(opposite Q*i‘.o.)
« 10* PITT fcT&SET, SYIiNSY
cm i .! i tv.-'.
p
E
R
F
E
f-
V
i
WHISKY
AGENTS WANTED
IN THE
mNOIPAI CENTRES
TESOVCmOVT AUSTRALASIA.
mo ALL WHOM IT MAY CONCERN
£lOO RE WART'.
Hundreds of testimonials have from time to
time been published in the Australian Press laud-
ing the well-known merits of St. Jacobs oil; testi-
monials from leading and representative men and
other reputable citizens of Australia, Great
Britain, and America, and a cash reward of one
hundred pounds will be paid by the Charles A.
Vogeler Company of Baltimore, Maryland, United
States of America, proprietors of St. Jacobs oil,
or by their accredited local representatives, to any
person producing proof to the effect that the tes-
timonials published by them in regard to St.
Jacobs oil are not strictly genuine. St, Jacobs
oil has a greater demand and larger sale than all
other embrocations and liniments in the world
collectively. It conquers pain. It cures Rheu*
matism, Neuralgia, Headache, Toothache, Back-
ache, and all similar ailments. Directions for use
in eleven languages.
MATCH IT.
Here Follows Just a Sample op what the
Greatest Remedy for Pain can do in a
Case of Chronic Rheumatism,
A CRIPPLED BOY.
Some years ago, Messrs, George 0. Osgood and
Co,, Lowell, Mass., wrote to the Charles A.
Vogeler Co. as follows Mr. Lewis Dennis, 136
Moody-street, desires to recommend St. Jacobs
oil to any afflicted with rheumatism, as he has
obtained benefit by using it, but he desires
especially to say, that “Orin Robinson, of Grant-
ville, Mass., a boy of 12 years, came to his house
in the summer of 1881, walking on crutches, his
left leg being bent back. He could not walk upon
it. Mr. Dennis had some St. Jacobs oil in the
house and gave it to him to rub on his knee. In
six days he had no use for crutches, and went
home well without them, and lie has been well
since. St. Jacobs oil cured him.”
CONCLUSION—NO RELAPSE.
“ Lowell, Mass., July oth, 1887. Gentlemen,
Mr. Lewis Dennis has j ust called upon me, and
informs me of the boy, Orin Robinson, who was a
poor cripple on crutches, and was cured by St.
Jacobs oil in 1881 ; the cure has remained per-
manent. The young man has been and is now at
work every day at manual labour, a case certainly
which proves the efficacy of St. Jacobs oil. Mr.
Dennis tells me also that he had rheumatism in
his knee (tried many remedies, but of no use) and
it cured the rheumatism permanently, as it has
not troubled him for years.— Geo. 0. Osgood.
M.D.”
IN SHORT,
By this showing St. Jacobs oil cures the worst
chronic and crippled cases ; cures promptly, cures
permanently : in this case without recurrence of
pain in six years intervening since 1881. Sold by
all chemists and dealers in medicine.
Wholesale depot forN.S.W. :
Messrs. Elliott Bros., Limited, Sydney.
LOW COST v. CHEAP WATCHES.
The Waterbary is not a cheap watch in the or-
dinary sense of the term ; it is simply a first-class
timepiece manufactured at low cost, through an
unexampled combination of inventive genius in
producing wonderfully accurate machinery, allied
to the use of materials that arc first-class in
quality, but as inexpensive as possible, and
those joined to a multiplicity of construction
that permits labour to be utilised to its
furthest possible extent. The labour, like the
material, is of the highest order of its class, and is
correspondingly remunerated. It simply demon-
strates that an intelligent American workman,
thoroughly trained to his position, and aided by
manifold and perfect-acting machinery, can earn
not only far superior wages, but can produce more
at less cost than the ignorant, dull, and plodding
European who follows in the footsteps of bis
ancestors, and who no more dreams of progress
than he does of aspiring to a companionship with
kings. The hand-fitted Swiss watches arc pro-
duced at what Americans would call starvation
wages. They are correspondingly poor in every
particular. They are cheap. They are made to
sell. They fulfil their purpose, and they bring
execrations upon the heads of retail watch-dealers.
Look for a moment into the future. Does it pay
to disgust a customer? Above all,, if that cus-
tomer is a boy? A boy feels disappointment
keenly. He spends his money upon a. watch that
will not last, that cannot be made to keep time.
Does he forget it ? His companion buys a low-
cost Waterbary, which does keep accurate time,
and which will and does last. He has confidence
in the dealer. But does the first boy feel kindly
towards the man who sold him the cheap Swiss
watch ? In later years he will avoid that dealer,
and say to himself ; “That’s the man who stuck
me on a cheap watch.”
r i
mii
'mr.
mm
n
, # ST.
1
¥
fO
Is made with the utmost care from materials
which are - - ,
Selected with the Greatest Regard for Purity
and for the
SOOTHING Si BENEFICIAL EFFECT
Which they impart to the Skin and Complexion
W ail ChemX®** 1a:...
Toilet Xe«ul*it«a.
The Referee.
Bathurst people tiro great at getting up testi-
monials, the last “puss’’ being for Mr. Ebenezer Tonkin,
M. L.A. (what a name for an ex-publican !) The one now
under weigh is for a worthy old sport, one Charley
Naylor, who is as well known in Bathurst as the new gaol
or the court-house clock. As secretary to the race club,
gun club, cricket c'.ub, tennis club, and Heaven knows
how mmy other clubs, he has done a heap of work. He
sings like a nightingale, leads a church choir, can organise
a Sheffield Handicap, hold the tape, handicap for a race-
meeting—in short, what he cannot do has not been put on
record. He is a native of Norfolk, Ireland, having been
born there when his father was chaplain to the convict
establishment. His father was the first Bmdish clergy-
man who visited the infant settlement of Port Phillip/ In
his official capacity, before Governor Bourke laid out or
named the city of Melbourne.
* * #
Fred Archer’s father d’ed the other day. 'He
was an old-tinie jockey himself, and formerly rode races
in Russia for one of the Emperors. It must be a pretty
soft thing riding for the Czar, because none of the other
jocks would risk Siberia by pipping the royal candidate on
the post.
# # *
Mr. James W hites cracks are Hot entered for
anything at the Caulfield meeting on February 22nd.
Nevertheless, the 500 sovg. Oakleigh Handicap is almost
certain to bring out a few fliers, and will probably fore-
shadow the result of the great Newmarket flutter,' to be
run on the following .Saturday. At time of writing very
few genuine wagers have been booked about the nominal
Newmarket favourites. Outside punters had better wait
to see how the oat jumps at Caulfield.
* # . #
Pugilist Slav in has married Miss Edith Slater,..
Slater is a good name for a pugilist, but a most unbusi-
nesslike one for a barmaid. Mr. Patrick Francis Slavin,
when he reaches Sydney, will no doubt be looking round
for a pub. It is cabled that Peter Jackson returns to
Australia by the Chimborazo and he, no doubt, will also
keep a pub. when he gets back. It is terrible to think of
three champion pugilists each keeping a whisky-mill and
each issuing challenges in the papers and breathing
slaughter over the bar. A general war will be the only
way of relieving the dreadful tension.
* # #
It .shall not be said that The Bulletin never
mentioned Deception (fist. 71b.) for the Newmarket Han-
dicap at Flemington on Ist March.
* * *
. Roberts challenges the world at pyramids ; he
will give one ball in each game of a series of fifty-one.
There are few players in England who can beat him now
at billiards with half the game, spot-barred, and those to
whom he gives a third could probably give half the game
to any of our Australian cracks.
* * *
George Giffen, when in England, was never
satisfied unless handling either hat or ball, and he carried
out his reputation in the recent Sydney match. As captain
of the South Australian team lie kept on bowling until 7fi
were put together without the loss of a wicket, whilst he
kept changing the men on the other end. The onlookers
were inclined to “ chivvy,” and cries of “take yourself
off,” with derisive applause, came from the crowd. Charley
JJannernian, however, said Gillen was breaking the ball at
w iH, howling splendidly, and that on a good wicket the
Sydneyites would have made IPO for a certainty. The
hook ou cricket, recently published by a couple of English
big-gun cricketers, gives George Giffen as the best all-
round cricketer in the world.
# * #
Tf Billy Murdoch goes to England with the next
Australian Eleven, it cannot be on his cricketing abilities,
but no doubt his “name” as skipper will draw more
“gate” than a tip-top performer. He may improve, hub
it must be confessed that his show with the hat in the
recent match was merely a succession of bad strokes.
* * *
Mackenzie, the S.A, wicket-keeper, took the
balls splendidly from the field, hut his performance behind
the sticks was not quite up to Dick— we mean Jack—
Blackham.
# * *
Jem Hall’s last “fight,” previous to his de-
parture for the States, that with Fitzsimmons, proved
another of those contests which knock spots off the anti-
pugilist preachers in crying the death-knell of pugilism
No one thought Fitz. had a ghost of a show with the
clever middle-weight, but they at least expected a genuine
set-to for their money. This they didn’t get. The
usually cool Hall obviously “ gammoned,” blowing like a
grampus the while, until the fourth round, when Fitz-
simons received a feather-weight tap on the jaw, and fell
all of a heap.
* # ; #
Mr. Francis P. Slavin told a London reporter
that he did not think the attempt to slaughter him at
Bruges by any means represented the feeling in En<>land
generally. “ Why,” said Paddy, “ you could get a
mans throat cut for a shilling in Paddy's Market
which is a low' quarter in Sydney, where the' Tear-away-
gang, the roughest push in the world, are to be found.”
I addy may not be the champion pugilist, but he is the
champion fibber without a doubt.
* * *
The fielding of South Australia was fair in one
?*■ *" ,( . ) instances, but it seemed to lack the “finish” of
’ mtonan and New' South Wales teams.
* #
Young Gregory, Dontlaiiand Deane simply beat
tile Wickets, w hich were doing their utmost to favour the
uall ; and the innings of Gregory in particular was a
masterful display of scientific batting.
* * #
What price pavilion sandwiches ? was the cry at
Sydney Association Ground on Saturday, when numbers
, t i le Pavilion habitues pulled their little parcel of home-
mades out of their tail pockets. None of those who have
attempted a Graeco-Roman with an Association Ground
sandwich can see the point of this paragraph,
* # *
-Lyons, the South Australian cricketer, it is said,
ms cause of complaint against the Sydney (ram system Qff
one road to the ground on Friday a quarter-pound nugget
r 1 mnder from a motor found a billet in his dexter optic,
dons was unable to take his place on Friday, but ice and
oanclages did (ho business by Saturday, as'he discarded
.uj' ,st b,,foro going to the wicket, and scored
not out during the afternoon. .
CORRESPONDENCE
“Gregory D.” : An old idea put into very
ipec'-.anioal Verse,,.. “ S.A.”: Nousurer should be elected
Mayor...." Jack Gordon”: Here and there a good line,
but everywhere crudity, You have In some respects an
excellent ear and have filled yourself Up to the neck with
old pfeller Gordon, cows, and horsiness, but you can’t yet
write readable verse, nor will you ever do so until you
make up your mind to adhere less slavishly to
hackneyed metres and themes. For Heaven’s sake,
don’t elect to join the wattle-poet band “John
Smith ” (Wellington): Your two stories are too
steep —" J.E.D.” (American Gully): Thanks.. ."B.
Hester” ; You evidently have not read the history of the
lawsuit. No woman in any country has, so far as we are
awarpj ever Vet Unaidedly written a successful play. We
do nbt know a single great play notv current in Which a
woman has collaborated. Mrs. Hodgson Burnett’s present
financial prosperity is largely due to the construc-
tive ingenuity of the man whom she and you unre-
servedly regard as a robber. Under the circumstances'
justice emphatically demanded that she should not have
exacted the full pound of flesh from the man who
had taught her how to utilise her raw material
“F.R.C.” (Uralla); The only preliminaries are, to send
specimens of your work to any of the illustrated papers
for which you consider your style best adapted.... “Tim
O’Briue” : Held over.. “Gladys” : (1) Turner and Hender-
son, Sydney, will mail you “Looking Backward” for
about eighteenpenoe, including postage. However, no
woman should look backward—see what happened Lot’s
wife. (2) What do we think of your handwriting ? Well,
we think that you think you’re a good-looking girl, and
that you hope you are as clever as they make them
That’s what we think “ Bum bora ” ; Thanks for clip-
ping's “Nemo”: It is not a simple sentence. It i:l
moreover, scarcely grammatical. “That is” relates to
“the upper part Stickles ” : Thanks. In some
places, we are told, Myee means native-girl “Chew
Gum” : Lacks finish. Try again “Cosmopolitan ”: As
you say, our young women w'ould devote their time more
creditably to the feeding and clothing of ill-clothed and
often homeless little ones than in the knitting of slippers
for sleek curates and smoking-caps for idiotic dudes.
But then love will prevail with young women..
“R. Barry’ 1 : We suppose the Government subsidy is
necessary to keep the thing going. Orchestral expenses
are very heavy, and, ns you say, the attendance is small.
. . “J. 8.”: “The Irish Policeman” wants a little drill-
ing “J. Henry”: Many thanks ; may use “W.P.”:
You say that a fair maiden saved you from thi
“ brink of drink ” ; can’t you get another one to
save you from the bottomless abyss of doggerel ?..
“Stirrup Jingle”: Will enquire. We have a dim
memory, however, that the verses weren’t up to the
mark—“ Consul” : We have forwarded your letter
“ H.D.” (Cobden) : Many thanks, but neither is available.
Try again. ~ “ J.M.D.” ; Thanks...." Thomas Truman
Address George Adams, Tattersall’s Hotel, Pitt-street,
Sydney “ ls r on ” (Kilmore) : ReceivedJ. Ml F. ” :
We don’t remember who was Brooke’s biographer. Per-
haps some correspondent will oblige? “K.F.”
(Sydney): The class you speak of get a big and well-
deserved share of chaff simply because they are extremely
numerous and aggressive. ..“R. Scanlan ” ; See above.
“ John Murray ” (Gympie): Have forwarded your dona-
tion in aid of Proctor’s family as requested “ A.M.S.”:
Just as “no speech ever turned a vote,” so no verdict
ever altered the opinion of the public who had attended
to the evidence as the case proceeded. The report of the
Parnell Commission haves the matter exactly where it
stood. Tub Times says that it has established its case,
hilt the stern tact is that Parnell has established £5OOO
and costs against The Times. As to the other Irish mem-
bers “conspiring,” of course they conspired—just in the
same way that all Australians who have the measure of
the ruling classes of Great Britain are conspiring
in a quiet sort of way to get rid of the Im-
perial connection at the earliest possible moment
“ W.A.W.”; The Ministerial commutation of a man’s sen-
tence depends not so much on his antecedents as on his
relatives....“ F. 5.0.”: Parkes’ “ crimson thread of kin-
ship” is, after all, only a paraphrase of Rosebery’s “ thin
red line.” Parkes never said anything original in his life
except when he called somebody a “ withered tarantula ’
or a “ poodle-headed creature.”
j •
Baron Nordenskjuld’s acceptance of the
command of the South Pole Expedition is a token
that it will be efficient. He is rather old, 58, but
may emulate Sir John Franklin. Nordenskjold is
a Finnish native, and his scientific education was
perfect—indeed science has been the hobby of his
family fur generations. Three expeditions to
Spitsbergen evinced his indomitable pluck,
an indication of his thoroughness being
afforded by a tour to Greenland to examine
the relative fitness of reindeer and dogs for
the sledges! His verdict was in favour of deer.
The Baron next turned his attention to Siberia,
and was the first to round the most northerly
Cape of the Old World, in that dapper steam-
yacht the Yoga, after which ho wintered in
Behring's Straits, 1878, and then went to Japan,
whence the nows came which gave the finishing
touch, so far, to his celebrity. As a young man
he had to leave Russian dominions, in Finland,
for his Republicanism, and this drove him to
Sweden. A great welcome will be given him in
Melbourne and Sydney. Baron Yon Mueller will
gyrate in a new comforter.


“The leading Packet Tea in New South Wales
is the Famous Billy Tea. Its consumption is
at least double that of any other brand in the
market.”
PACKED o>ftY BY
James Inglia & Co.,
4 & 0 Dean's Pr..\ci;, SYDNEY.
Aarons’ Exchange Hotel, Sydney.
,s £
■ -
V
... , ..
-■
aha
m
m
■
m
A-Cf-I
sss^
m
*
■-
Adjoining the Sydney Exchange.
Mining, Financial and Genera,! Mercantile Intelligence
Posted several times DAILY in the Bull lug.
TELEGRAPH, POST and MONEY ORDER OFFICES ox the PREMISES.
-( “)-
Tins Hotel has been thoroughly renovated and re-furnished, and is now unrivalled for comfort
md attention.
Aarons’ Exchange Hotel Co. (Limited), Proprietors.
£lOOO FOR 108. <3 Cl.
S
END P. 0.0, or stamps for 10•. Gd. with stamped addressed envelope to CRAIG and AITKEN,
Tobacconists, GBO George-street, Sydney, ani you will receive a ticket in the
SancHißrst Masonic Art Union,
which is to be drawn during the present month. Note the list of prizes :
Ist. Prize, £1000; 2nd, £5OO ; 3rd, £2OO ; -4th, £100;
2 Prizes at £5O; 5 Prizes at £2O; 10 Prizes at £10;
20 „ at £5; 20 „ at £3; 20 „ at £2;
And 539 Prizes at £l.
ST IRHISTJXjT PUBLISHED LLT HD-A-HEjIL papers. H
The most legitimate thing you could put a spare half-guinea in.
ft'"- A :
■
1 ■■■■tdHßSfi
-.■AiAwi
inH
"1 >
oX
r%-m
to w
SSf
lljll
m
UECTfIIC PHOTO-ENC. 00 ,_BJ)BIDCE-ST.. SYDNEY-
The Oxford Hotel, King Street, Sydney.
H. THORPE ... ... Proprietor.
JONES’ SEWING MACHINES,
FOR THE BOOT AND TAILORING TRADES.
The Best' Manufacturing Machines in Existence* -
Now Perfected, the New No. 3 and No-. 4 Machines on an Entirely new System.
> stock: just landing.
Farlei&li, INTetthelm, & 00.,
TANNERS AND LEATHER MERCHANTS,
16 x YORK x STREET, X SYDNEY.
Sole Agents for the above for Now South Wales and Queensland.
ALSO
I.MIW
(x)
linj O.li ,-s ,-f Requisites for llie ROOT MANUFACTURING TRADE' In all Details, Including MACHINERY
ni l) iK \ 11kies, .Vi-. : .ami/f ihe folfowiu* Sroi.fl. Iwkij: reerlesH«4.l«>s*. Sally I'oll.li, Niil*lnii
■(lurking Tanners' Tools ami Materials liidents Executed on Favourable Terms.
Medical.
DR. RICHARDS.
“ ra DirU ARDS »
D« Va? iiuiiuimiiiiiiriTTuliiiiiiiiiiuiii
—Bis
l nun
:2
ATiDR*
This eminent Specialist, Founder, and Chief
Surgeon of the long-established and favourably-
known Dispensary that now hears his name, re-
ceived his medical education in the leading colleges
and hospitals of Europe. He has devoted a life-
time to the study of
PRIVATE, NERVOUS, AND SKIN
DISEASES.
He has by profound research thoroughly investi-
gated their origin, traced their deadly sources and
insidious dissemination, and ascertained the surest
and safe-t methods by which they may be eradi-
cated, with these widely recognised qualifications
combined with unswerving faithfulness to hi l
patients, he has during his practice, extending
over FORTY YEARS, attained a well-deserved
pre-eminence in their treatment. His practice
embraces diseases which probably cause more un-
happiness than any other class of troubles that
afflict mankind. .
YOUNG MEN
v,ho suffer from the results of early follies, trans-
gressions or excesses of more nature age, b* adder
difficulties, a whitish or dark ropy pediment in
the water, accompanied by slight burning or
smarting sensation, Headaches, Drowsiness during
he day, circles round the eyes, Giddiness,
irregularity of the bowels, specks before the eyes,
bashfulness, discontentedness, weakness or pains
in the back. Liver or kidney complaints, dreams,
buzzing noises in the ears and head, pimples, a
fear that something dreadful is about to happen,
weak stomach, yellow or blood shot eyes, impure
blood, hasty, uncontrollable temper, hacking
cough, who cannot marry, nervousness in society,
wakefulness, palpitation of the heart, general
weakness, and other symptoms which lead to in-
sanity and death, should consult him, for ho has
mastered these difficulties. On receipt of 6d. in
stamps lie will send secure from observation in a
plain wrapper, postage
FREE, A LARGE CLOTH-BOUND
BOOK.
Showing plainly how all diseases of the private or
nervous system may be cured thoroughly and per-
manently without unnecessary expence. This
book will prove a valuable companion, and even
though you ho perfectly well its general inform-
t ion and prescription may assist you in restoring
some poor friend to health even after his case has
been pronounced incurable by his medical at-
tendant.
ONE POUND IS SUFFICIENT TO
SEND
for Remedies necessary for the cure of NER-
VOUS DEBILITY. Should you require medical
treatment, as procrastination is sometimes dan-
gerous, it would be advisable for you to sit down
quietly in your chamber and write to the doctor,
detailing every experienced symptom. He will
on receipt of such a letter, write you, promptly
and courteously, a candid and straightforward
oponion of your case. If you do not think you
understand the case, send for his famous medical
work, the price of which Is but sixpence ; enclosed
in the volume will be found a list of carefully-pre-
pared questions, which will, in all probability,
assist you materially in describing your ailment.
Dr. Richards uses not hing but the purest remedies,
and never prescribes mercury under any circum-
stances. The moment letters arc carefully per-
used and answered they are destroyed by fire,
and patients may rest assured that their cases
will remain a secret between the doctor and
themselves. Dr. Richards has successfully treated
nearly 25,000 cases since coming to Australia, and
has permission from at least 10,000 persons to
show their written evidence of his success. All
communications should be addressed
Dr. RICHARDS,
7 Spring Street
(Oft Pitt Street North)
SYDNEY.
Be sure to mention this paper when writing
CONSULTATION FREE.
“Wedded.”
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
(This story does not sound very probable, but,
though treated with a good deal of “poetic”
licence, the main points are substantially true.) —
There is a little village not a hundred miles away,
Entitled—never mind its name, but let us call
it A.
The name it bears upon the map I wouldn’t like
to say. ■
And once a man was living there, a man of sable
hue,
No doubt a “ nigger ” is the term that would be
used by you
For those who love poetic phraseology are few.
But, to resume my story, in the village also dwelt
A lady of a similar complexion, and she felt
Her heart in pure devotion to the nigger fellow
melt ;
At least she told the parson so, and .he, a foolish
chap,
Advised her at the coloured man to set her
widow’s cap ;
“ That’s very fine, your honour, but he wouldn’t
care a rap! ’’
So she replied, and, by this sable Amazon cajoled,
The man in holy orders with an aspect free and
bold
Declared that he would beard the backward lover
in his hold.
And when the sun next morning, toiling up by
slow degrees,
Had painted bright the landscape and invited all
the bees
To gather liquid honey from the yellow wattle-
trees,
The parson in his long black coat and hat you
might have seen
Before a hut constructed all of tins that once had
been
Receptacles for what is known as “ Snowflake
Kerosene.”
And here resided Jim, the coloured gentleman
you know, . ...
To whom the visitor addressed himself with meek
; “ Hello !”
Receiving* back as answer : ** Feller, what you
wanter know ?”
Heaven knoweth how the trick was done, but Jim
at last became
A miserable victim to the parson’s little game ;
He had hated Mrs. Jim-but had to wed her all
the same.
He led her to his palace where the sunlight loved
to play .
Upon the shining metal, and his hair grew quickly
grey,
For soon his house was hell and yet he dared not
run away,
For Mrs. Jim, with kindly force, would clutch
him by the beard,
And, as with' drunken fury in his frightened face
she leered,
Would knock his head against the wall until he
really feared
That either his poor skull would crack or else the
house would fall;
And passers-by were puzzled by the aspect of the
wall,
Which rose and fell as though it breathed, accom-
panied by bawl,
And curse and bang and yell and other music cf
the kind.
Day after day the thing occurred, and Jimmy
soothed his mind
With liquor till his countenance grew saintly and
resigned.
A year had passed, and, meanwhile, had appeared
a little child
Upon the scene, and Jim had had his picaninny
styled
Augustus Thomas Joseph Jim, but Mrs. J. was
riled,
And said his name was Jacky and the other names
were rot:
When Jim expostulated he was told to “ go to
pot,”
And any further language brought it down upon
him hot.
But one day Jim was happy, for it happened that
there came
To A a drunken sailor, and eventually the
same
Was proved to be the gentleman who once be-
stowed his name
On Mrs. Jim ; in other words, her former hus-
band he,
Whom everyone supposed had been a’ slaughtered
by the sea;
And .) immy rubbed his hands, and hoped that
now he would be free.
And so he told his story to tire battered sailor-
man,
Avoiding all unkind details till his little story
ran
Like a tale of wedded glory—but the mariner
began,
With maudlin sympathy (although the terror in
his eye
Told quite a different tale and gave his sympathy
the lie),
“ Nerrer min, ole feller, you can ’ave ’er till yer
die!
“ Gord forbid that I shud ever put asunder what
he’s jined,
You can ’ave ’er. If I meddle may the ’Eavens
strike me blind.
White to white and black to nigger, for the cat
will after kind.”
Then he left and never waited to salute his
quondam wife,
And Jim and she live ever in a state of drunken
strife
And will until the Fury comes and slits his thread
of life. ' I
Gladesville.
J. LE G. BRERETON.
MEN WERE DECEIVERS EVER.
“Yer see, Clementina put it on me
finger las’ night with a wish, an’
I wish ter get out o’ this town
jus’ as quick as possible. What
can yer give me on it ? ”
—AMER.


a
Watch Manufacturer. & Jeweller,
818 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
(Nearly opposite Railway Station).
For Watches and Jewellery, send for my Price List
(Illustrated). Post Free.
20b.
20b.
Tiik Unrivalled Keyless Watch.
Guaranteed. Post Free.
Oent.’s English Levers (full cap) from £8 10s.
EST' Ladies' Beautiful Silver Watches from £1 10s.
Gold Watches and Jewellery of every description.
Country Residents and Visitors to Sydney call or send
to A. SAUNDERS, 813 George Street (nearly opposite
Railway Station), SYDNEY.
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
Everybody should use Pemell’s latest best Snow-white
Patent Roller Flour. It is the greatest success of the
age.
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
Nota Bene! In addition to their High Class old
Wines, Messrs. Hockings & Co., of 410 George-street, have
accepted the agency of the Australian Wine Company,
Limited, for their-superior cheap wines.
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
Photogkaphy.— Charlemont and Co. (vice-regal
photographers), in the Royal Arcade, beg to an-
nounce that they have now 7 reduced the price of
their Cabinet Photographs to One Guinea per doz.
any style—bust, vignette or three-quarter figure.
Messrs. Charlemont feel assured that this reduc-
tion in price will meet the many w*ho refrained
from sitting in their studio, solely on account of
the price hitherto being higher than they might
care to' pay. Grosvenor Galleries, Royal Arcane.
Building Sites, City of Perth, W.A. Plans
Intercolonial Investment Co., Limited, 96 Bathurst-
street, Sydney.
A literary treat for Australians abroad
and for absent friends of Australian readers of The
Bulletin : “ A Golden Shanty—Australian stories
and sketches in prose and verse by Bulletin
writers.” The brightest, best and most original
shilling book ever published in this country. Send
it to your English friends whom Sladen’s Anthology
has disgusted. One shilling; postage in Australia
sd. extra.
Land at Perth, W.A., the beat investment.
Plans from Intercolonial Investment Co., Ltd.,
96 Bathurst-ttreet, Sydney.
&
\S3
every
DESCRIPTION'
or
HAIR WORK DONE
%
ipi
X
53
A
PRIVATE
, ROOMS
FDR LADIES
ROYAL ARCAOEX
MELBOURNE
Shipping.
TTNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF NEW
W ZEALAND, Limited.
SAN FRANCISCO ROYAL MAIL SERVICE.
OVERLAND ROUTE TO ENGLAND VIA SAN
FRANCISCO AND NEW YORK,
Calling at
AUCKLAND and HONOLULU,
Avoiding alike the heat of the Red Sea and the cold
of Cape Horn.
Under Contract with the Postmasters-General of New
South Wales and New Zealand, the steamers of this line
are appointed to leave Sydney.and Auckland for Honolulu
and San Francisco every four weeks, sailing as under;—
Each steamer carries a duly qualified surgeon.
These steamers are fitted with Electric Light and with a
Refrigerating Chamber for ship provisions, insuring a
plentiful supply of ice throughout the voyage.
Passengers are booked to San Francisco or through to
European destinations and have at San Francisco choice of
the unrivalled Atlantic Steamship Lines of the Cunard,
Inman, White Star, and other companies.
All first-class passengers are allowed 3501 b. of baggage
to San Francisco and 2501 b. “Overland ” free of charge,
THROUGH FARE TO LIVERPOOL.
FIRST-CLASS £63 to £66.
Time-cards, railway maps, and gu'de books, showing all
routes to any point in the United States, may be had on
application
For rates of passage and freight and all other informa-
tion apply at the Company’s Offices, 15 Bridge-street.
FREDK. W. JACKSON, Manager.
tC
1
THE
V^BRAf
O
c
111
'X
X
ni
CO
>
£
wuniiuf
~y.
Run
nmi
'Sr*
6o
CLARENCE^
-—^'■
m
/>•
TRIUMPH
of The Qoop 3 PJiiLJ OVER 6*P-
Anglo Scandinavian
Cold Medal
Milk.
Acknowledged
The Best
Shipping.
JJUDDART, PARKER and CO.’b LINE
STEAM TO MELBOURNE AND
TASMANIA.
FROM HUDDART, PARKER’S WHARF.
FOR MELBOURNE WHARF DIRECT—
Elingamite | 4000 tons | Tuesday, March!, atsp.m.
FOR LAUNCESTON, VIA MELBOURNE-
trunshipping to S.S. NEWCASTLE.
Elingamite | 4000 tons | Tuesday,March 4 ,atsp.m.
These magnificent Steamships have already established
a reputation for their accommodation, and their large size
insures passengers a maximum of comfort. The SALOON
CABINS are light and airy and very roomy. FORE-
CABIN is on main deck, lofty and well ventilated. Com-
plete sanitation and lavatories. ELECTRIC LIGHTING
throughout the ships. Inspection invited on days of
sailing.
RETURN TICKETS AVAILABLE FOR SIX MONTHS.
For rates of Freight and Passage-money apply
HUDDART, PARKER & CO., Limited.
Offices and Wharf—Foot of Margaret-street.
rpASMANIAN EXCURSIONS.
The splendid
S.S. ELINGAMITE, 4000 Tons,
will sail as under for HOBART DIRECT.
ELINGAMITE, Tuesday, 4th March, at 5 p.m.
GREAT REDUCTION IN FARES.
SALOON £1 0 0
RETURN 1 10 0
STEERAGE .. 0 10 0
RETURN TICKETS AVAILABLE FOR SIX MONTHS.
Also GREAT REDUCTION iN FREIGHT.
HUDDART, PARKER & CO, Limited.
Office and Wharf—Foot of Margaret Street.
NOBDDEUTSCHER LLOYD.
IMPERIAL GERMAN MAIL.
Passengers are carried according to the requirements o t
the English Passenger Acts of 1885 and 1863.
MONTHLY LINE OF DIRECT STEAMERS
from
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, and ADELAIDE,
to SOUTHAMPTON, ANTWERP, and BREMEN, via
COLOMBO, Aden, Suez, and Genoa,
taking passengers for London,
connecting from PORT SAID by DIRECT MAIL and
PASSENGER LINE to BRINDISI,
will be despatched as follows (if practicable):—
helm 11.
L. Stormer April 19 April 27 April 29
And thereafter every four weeks.
PASSAGE MONEY from SYDNEY,
£l4 to £67 10s.
RETURN TICKETS, available for NINE and TWELVE
MONTHS, at REDUCED RATES.
Passengers and Cargo are booked through to New York,
via Southampton.
Special facilities are afforded for bringing out relatives
and friends from the United Kingdom and Europe by pre-
payment of the passage money in Australia.
For FREIGHT, PASSAGE, and all further particulars,
apply to FREDK. BETZ & CO., Aoents, 5 O’Connell-street.
D
IRECT SERVICE TO ENGLAND.
PENINSULAR AND ORIENTAL STEAM
NAVIGATION COMPANY.
The Company’s Royal Mail Steamships (under contract
with the Imperial, New South Wales, Victorian, and South
Australian Governments) will be dispatched from their
Wharf, Circular Quay, as under, for LONDON, calling at
Melbourne, Adelaide, Albany, Colombo, Aden, Brindisi,
Malta, Gibraltar, and Plymouth.
And henceforth every alternate week.
RESERVED CABINS ON MODERATE TERMS.
SALOON PASSENGERS MAYBREAKTHEIR JOURNEY.
The arrangements for SECOND SALOON PASSENGERS
having been thoroughly re-organised, the accommodation
now offered is unsurpassed. Passage-money can be paid
here for passages from England. Liberal concessions made
to families. Passengers, cargo, and parcels are booked
through to India, China, and Japan. Cargo and parcels
will not be received after 3 p.m. on the day previous to
sailing. For all information apply at the Company’s
Offices, 247 George-street. A. MACLEAN Acting Agent.
COMPAGNIE DES MESSAGERIES MARX.
TIMES.
SYDNEY to LONDON.
OVERLAND FROM MARSEILLES via PARIS.
Steamers under postal contract with the Government of
France, calling at MELBOURNE ADELAIDE, KING
GEORGE’S SOUND, MAKE, SUEZ, and PORT SAID.
Passengers booked to KURRACHEE, BOMBAY,
MAURITIUS, and EAST COAST of AFRICA.
The service is carried on by powerful steamers of 4000
tons and 3000 effective h.p., built expressly for the Aus-
tralian and New Caledonian line, which will be despatched
as follows:
And thenceforward on the 25th of each month.
Rates of passage-money to Marseilles from £2O to £66,
including table wines and Suez Canal dues on passengers.
RETURN TICKETS issued at the following rates
English interpreters meet through passengers for
London on arrival of steamers at Marseilles, and accom-
pany them to Paris and Calais. N. B. Passengers’ luggage
conveyed free of cost from Marseilles to London. For
freight, passage, and further particulars apply at the
Company’s Office, 15 Macquarie-place.
A. CONIL, Principal Agent.
JOHN BRIDGE & CO.,
CIRCULAR QUAY, SUSSEX STREET, Ac
DARLING HARBOUR,
Wool brokers.
Hides, Tallow, Sheepskins, Kangaroo. Bear and
Opossum Skins, <kc.
auctioneers.
ORAIRT SALESMEKT,
BUNKER’S PROPOSAL
Showing How a Bullocky Won His Bride.
( FOR THE BULLETIN.)
Bunker was a long, lath-like, muscular specimen
of the native-bred youth, with a preponderance of
hands and feet, and an expression of bucolic sim-
plicity that ill accorded with his six-feet of stature
and his great command of ancient and modern
profanity. At that time Bunker was conductor of
a bullock-team, and was engaged hauling sleepers
and piles and other Government stuff into Sey-
mour from out Reedy Creek way, and he beguiled
the tedium of the long, slow journeys with tender
musings and pleasant retrospection, the object
of his thoughts being a certain fair maiden of
Amazonian proportions and very moderate beauty,
whom he met at Hogan’s raffle, and with whom
he danced all night to the utter undoing of all
aspiring rivals and the overthrow of his own
peace of mind. Miss Gleeson was the eldest
daughter of a depressed cockatoo farmer in a
small way, who was the father of six young
ladies of the same make and shape, everyone open
for engagement. The elder Miss Gleeson was of
commanding presence, but her facial attractions
were greatly impaired by the reckless indifference
that characterised the mapping out of her features
—there was an irregularity about their flow, so to
speak, and a disregard of all law, order, and pre-
cedent in their situation and elevation which,
though possessing the charm of originality, was
not likely to delight a connoisseur.
Bunker, however, was not a connoisseur, and
“ Gleeson’s Mag ” had planted emotions in his
bosom to which he had hitherto been a stranger.
He started visiting the Gleeson homestead on
Sunday afternoons, and took to hanging about the
place in a desultory kind of way when not detained
by press of business, but lie was abashed and de-
ferential in his bearing, and though the young
lady and her family manifested considerable im-
patience he could not bring himself to state his
case and precipitate a satisfactory understanding ;
nevertheless, he formulated a programme and a
plan of campaign with every trip and spent all his
time passing resolutions when he was not waking
Strawberry up with some plain and fancy swear-
ing, or called upon to devote his energies to
working the team round an ugly bend.
At length, one evening a more than ordinarily
advantageous opportunity presented itself, and
Bunker determined to lodge his application or
die in the attempt. He was getting back after
delivering the last stick for the day. It was now
sundown, but the atmosphere had measured up
about 130', and the cattle were impatient for
water and deliverance Rom their harassing traps.
Bunker had turned off into a wooded lane, and
was piloting the beasts through the timber with
due circumspection, when he came upon the object
of his virgin affection, who was leaning over some
slip-rails taking the air. Our hero called a halt,
and advanced to seize the opportunity, and after
parsing a lot of uninteresting truisms bearing on
the weather, and pawing round a great deal with
his feet he ventured to ask, as a preliminary
like ;
“ How ja like livin’ over along with ole Flat-
Foot so long ? ”
“ Ole Flat-Foot ” was the pet name bestowed on
Miss Mag’s father by his friends and neighbours.
“ Can’t say I wouldn’t like a change,’’responded
the unfilial Miss Gleeson, wishing to do her due
share in furthering the business in hand.
Bunker felt encouraged, and got up on his other
loot, and continued :
“ I got somethin’ ’important I wanter say t’
yer Will y’ keep still, you blank, blank, dashed,
heterogeneous, hexangular aggregation ? Dash
yeh !” The latter part of this fulmination was
addressed to the bullocks, who, being anxious to
terminate the interview and get out to grass, had
moved on a step or two. In response to the de-
mands of respectability we find it necessary to
disguise the identity of some of Mr. Bunker’s
remarks under a nom deplume. “Yeh see, Mag,”
he continued, “ I feel sorter —sorter —you know
sorter—Whoa, there! Whoa! Will yer, yeh
exclamation, asterisk, oblong, plastered, blank,
blank blank !”
Miss Gleeson ».ast a reproachful look at the
refractory cattle and said, impatiently—
“ Well, sorter how ? ’
“Oh, ’s if I was runnin’ alone in th’jinker ’n
wantin’ another poler—sorter lopsided, an’, d’yer
know, I thought I’d—thought I’d—Whoa, Straw-
berry ! Whoa, come hither! you desolated, tesse-
lated, crimson-dyed, son of a burnt, blanked,
blasted, bovine, hyperbolical, hypochondriac ! ”
Mag shifted uneasily and bit her lips, and
looked an aggravated assault at the team, and our
hero returned to his subject in a state of physical
and moral agitation.
“See, Mag, this weather’s rough on a hatter,
an’ and I’d like t’—like t’—blarst your lurid,
logarithmic eyes! you corroded, contaminated
criminal ! Back up, will you? Whoa back,
Bailey ! Whoa, Redeye ! Devil! deuce ! hum !
Dura !! Dum !!! ”
Missus Gleeson climbed through the slip-panels,
and backed against the post, and stood in an atti-
tude of nervous restraint, tearing her apfon be-
tween her fingers and thinking a lot of heterodox
language; and Mr. Bunker took measurements
along his whip-handle and endeavoured ‘to recall
remarks suitable to the occasion.
“ I wanted t’ say—that is, I meant t’ ask yeh—
t’ ask yeh He leaned on the whip and
kicked desperately at a tussock of grass and looked
hungnily round for inspiration. The bullocks
gave him another opening. “’Yask yeh—now
wiil you whoa ! you carboniferous, archaeological,
hamstrung descendant of a hashed hog? Whoa
back ! you spavined blanked hades-destmed wow-
bait ! Whoa!!”
Mag let down her back hair and jigged about a
bit and scratched the atmosphere and seemed
very much distressed. Bunker collected his re-
sources and sailed in again :
“ Yeh mighter noticed, I’m rather fond o’
cooked meals, an’ if you’d jest—if you’d jest-
jest ” . There seemed to be a clack in his
larynx which shut right down and was weighted
with a monkey-wrench every time he reached the
real point at issue. He gasped and choked, and
Strawberry came to his rescue again. “If you’d
jest—jest ——. Blast that dog-worried, hump-
backed, chump-footed hunk of meat ! Whoa
back, Strawberry ! whoa back, Darkey ! Whoa,
your confounded, oxydized, ostracised, diabolical
object of abhorrence!”
The eldest Miss Gleeson could stand it no longer.
“ Lemme the whip ! ” she yelled, snatching the
prompter from his hand. “ Stand clear ! Whoa,
come here, Darkey ! Gee back, Bailey ! Whoa,
Nigger! you blankety, blankety, sanguinary,
plastered, spavined, glandered, wind-galled,
rickety, sulphurous, doubled - dyed, ever - con-
demned, boiled-headed, sore-eyed, sexagenarian,
aggravated mass of tuberculosis ! I’ll teach yeh! ”
And she ran the lash over the who’e team with
scientific acumen, raising wales, and dusting the
hair out of the cattle like flights of mosquitos.
“ Whoa, Strawberry! Whoa, you exploded,
deviled, diseased, dry-rotted, antiquated, blue-
liyered, brimstone, double-damned, saltpetered,
diabolical, vitriolic, muddy, ruddy, blighted, all-
fired son of a exploded field-gun ! ”
The team looked shocked and subdued. Bailey,
Redeye, Nigger, Strawberry, Darkey and the rest
backed up and cowered —they recognised a master
mind. Miss Gleeson turned to her admirer; she
was still nervous and agitated.
“ You leave the cattle to me, Bunker,’’she said.
“I’ll attend to them. And now get ’long with
your speech ! ”
Bunker laid his claim, was successful, and now
Mrs. Bunker bosses the team.
E.D.


READ THIS ! Two Pounds’ (£2) worth of these preparations sent free to any part of th
■ CD
Armstrong’s Citron Saline, for cooling and purifying the
blood. An aperient effervescing salt. 2s; 18s doz.
Armstrong’s Blood Purifier or Anti-Scorbutic— a valuable
remedy where the blood has become vitiated through
residence in hot climates, with usual consequences of
bad water, deficient vegetable diet. 2s; 18s doz.
Armstrong’s Compound Sarsaparilla with Dandelion, lodide
of Potash, &c., forallimpuritiesof the blood. 2s; 20sdoz.
Armstrong’s Eye Lotipn for Blight and other inflammatory
affections ©f the eyes. The proprietor has received
numerous testimonials for cures effected by this lotion
when all other means had failed. Is; 8s doz.
Armstrong’s Sugar-coated Anti-bilious Pills. An infallible
remedy in cases of indigestion and other complaints
arising from an inactive liver. Is; 8s doz.
Armstrong’s Diarrhoea Mixtures gives instant relief in this
troublesome complaint. 2s; 18s doz.
Armstrong’s Cough Elixir. An immediate cure for colds,
coughs, influenza, &c. 2s; 18s doz.
Armstrong’s Podophyllin Pills, for liver complaints, im-
purities of the blood, &c. Is; 8s doz.
Armstrong’s Phosphorous Pills, for Nervous and General
Debility, &o. Is; 8s doz.
Armstrong’s Anodyne Liniment (or Pain Paint) for bruises,
sprains, rheumatic pains, &c. 2s; 18s doz.
Armstrong’s Cough Balsam, for chronic pulmonary affec-
tions and lung diseases. 2s; 18s doz.
Armstrong’s Golden Eye Ointment, for blight and all
diseases of the eyes. Is Od; 13s doz.
Armstrong’s celebrated Ointment for Piles. 2s;
18s doz.
Armstrong’s Iron and Quinine Tonic, for loss of appetite,
Nervousness, General Debility, Neuralgia, &c. 2s.
Armstrong’s Pepsine Bismuth and Nux Vomica, for
chronic indigestion. 3s 6d &ss6d ; 30s & 58s doz.
Armstrong’s Quinine Wine. A most reliable brain and
nerve tonic. 2s 6d; 20s doz.
Armstrong’s Podophyllin Scidlitz Powders. A mild and
pleasant aperient. Is 6d; 15s doz.
Armstrong’s “ Arabian Ointment.” For healing all sores,
old wounds, burns, etc. (in pots). Is; 8s doz.
Armstrong’s Corn Paint and Solvent, for painlessly
removing corns, bunions, warts, &o. Is; 8s doz.
Armstrong’s Toothache Drops and Carbolic Nervine, for
immediate cure of toothache. Is; 8s doz.
Armstrong’s Resin, Carbolic, Zinc, Blue, White and Red
Percipitate Ointments (in boxes). 6d ;5s doz.
Armstrong’s Dandruff Pomade, for eradicating scurf, dan-
druff, &c., from the hair. Is ; 8s doz.
Armstrong’s Arabian Hair Renewer, for restoring grey
hair to its natural colour. Is fid; 12s doz.
Armstrong's Indelible Ink, for writing on linen, silk, and
muslin. Is; 8s per doz.
Armstrong’s Lime Juice and Glycerine. A valuable
preparation for the hair. Is &2s;Bs ■ & 18s doz.
Armstrong’s Transparent Cement (Cohesuline) for china,
glass, wood, leather. Ac. Cd Als ; 5s (z 8s doz,
Armstrong’s Carbolic Tooth Powder antiseptic. Is; 8s doz.
Armstrong's Disinfectant, Ciarbolised Powder (.in tins'.
for drains, etc. 9d &IsCd ; Cs Cd & 12s doz.
Armstrong’s Sore Back Ointment forhorses. 2s; & 18S do;-.,
Armstrong’s Carbolic Dressing, for cuts and wound t
among stock. Is &IsCd ; Ss & 15s doz.
Armstrong’s Blistering Ointment-the best remedy for
splints, curbs, etc. Is Cd ; 13s doz.
Armstrong’s Gold Paint, Copper, Silver and Green Bronzes,
for decorating your home ornaments, statuary', &c.
all ready' mixed. Cd ; 8s doz.
INVENTED, MANUFACTURED and SOLD ONLY by H. C. ARMSTRONG, George Street NORTH (Near Circular Quay), SYDNEY
Trusses, Belts, Supports, Elastic Stockings, Knee Caps, etc., at English Wholesale Cost. The Largest Mock in Sydney.
FOR DRUGS, CHEMICALS, PATENT MEDICINES and DRUGGISTS’ SUNDRIES, SEND FOR SPECIAL PRICE LIST (POSTED FREE).
Great Medical Reform!
ggf 3 Consult (FREE) HERR RASBMUBSEN, the Celebrated Danish Herbalist
Expert Specialist in all Private Complaints, Barrenness and Nervous Diseases.
DENMARK
m
4{/IY
%
%
\
%
%
%
\
%
%
ď
đ
I
0
s
T
v
i
T
A
L
I
T
vi
\jjCOB;
0
d
f#
ď
#
ggCi
đ
Restbres’
V
A Guaranteed Cure
for
Nsrvous Dbbility and
Lost Vitalitt.
225. 6d. per Course.
Smaller Box ss. 6d.
Only Herbalist Ixx Australia
That Viaq rooei v«d “Gold Medal” for Great Cures Performed, and is Honourably Mentioned in the “Centennial History of New South Wales’
for Great Herbal Discoveries; and who can prove that he has CURED OVER 20,000 PATIENTS.
Sole Proprietor and Discoverer of the Celebrated
DENMARK VITALITY PILLS, Registered,
Which have been the means of Curing so many Thousands of Sufferers from Nervous Debility, Lost Vitality, Errors, Weakness, Despondency,
Impure Blood. 225. 6d, per Course ; Smaller Box, os, (id.
G-en.uin.e Testimoniala.
To HERR RASSMUSSEN.
Dear Sir,—This is to certify that you cured me of a very serious blood
disease, after many doctors had failed. —JOHN REYNOLDS, Chappel-
street, Leichhardt, Sydney.
To HERR RASSMUSSEN, the celebrated Danish Herbalist.
Dear Benefactor, —
I have much pleasure to inform the public that you cured my wife of
•in internal complaint of a very serious nature, after all the doctors had
given her up —ARCHIBALD MACFARLANE, Edeu Cottage,
Barney-street, Armidale.
To HERR RASSMUSSEN, Specialist in Nervous Diseases.
Dear Sir,—l hereby thank you for the great cure you performed on
me for a very complicated nervous affection, and I shall always recom-
mend you to sufferers from Nervous Debility.-PHILLIP STEAD,
54 Parramatta-road, Annandale, Sydney.
To HERR RASSMUSSEN, Danish Herbalist.
Dear Sir and Benefactor,—lt gives me great pleasure to testify
to your wonderful skill in the treatment of Disease. You cured me of a
terrible complaint after the doctors gave me up, and although it is four
years since, lam as well as ever. I shall recommend you to all—Yours,
gratefully, A. RAMSDEN, Great Western Coffee Palace, Gastlereagh-
street, Sydney.
To HERR RASSMUSSEN, Specialist in Nervous Diseases.
Dear Sir,—l hereby certify that I have been under your skilful
+maHient for a very obstinate case of nervous debility, and that you
cured me with one course of your Vitality Pills. —D. M‘NEILL,
Hornsby Junction, N.S.W.
Opinions of the Press.
It is a well-known fact that HERR RASSMUSSEN, the Cele-
brated Danish Herbalist, lias performed many great cures during the
past few years, as his numerous testimonials will prove.
—Sydney Bulletin.
HERR RASSMUSSEN". —We have been shown some excellent
Testimonials of the great cures performed by Herr Rassmussen, the
celebrated Danish Herbalist.— Australian Star.
HERR RASSMUSSEN has now been established in the colonics
for 10 years.— Sunday Times, April 28, 1888.
HERR RASSMUSSEN has become a celebrity in the curing of all
diseases of the nervous system. His name has become a wonder through-
out the Southern Hemisphere. He was presented with a GoU M«=dal for
some of his miraculous cures.— Balmain Leader, May 12, 1888.
HERR RASSMUSSEN. —The remarkable cures which he has
effected are pretty generally known. — Balmain Observer, April, 28, 1888.
We are perpetually receiving letters from HERR R ASSMUSSEN S
cured patients requesting us to make known to the public the wonderful
medical skill this remarkable man possesses, and he has just been pre-
sented with a gold medal from several of his cured patients.
—Sydney Weekly News, May 26, 1887.
HERB RASSMUSSEN’S HERBAL REMEDIES
(Registered)
DENMARK VITALITY PlLLS.—Guaranteed to cure nervous debility, Lost
Vitality, Errors of Youth and Despondency. Price, 225. 6d. per full course; small
box, 6s. 6d.
DENMARK FEMALE RESTORER PlLLS.—Guaranteed to cure all complaints
peculiar to Females, Irregularities, and eradicates complaints which cause barren-
ness. Price, 225. 6d. per course ; small box, ss. 6d.
LOBK CURE PlLLS.—Guaranteed to Cure all diseases of the blood, discharges,
sores, and strictures. Price, 225. 6d. per course, small box, ss. (id.
CONSULTATION AND ADVICE FREE.
All ttie above remedies are made ol PURE HERBS, and are forwarded unobserved. A valuable treatise on Nervous Debility, Private Complaints, anil Barrenness, sent
on reoeipt of 4d stamped addressed envelope. Consultation personally or by post, free. Patients are examined with the aid of the Microscope.
Address : - Here RASSMUSSEN, the Danish Herbalist,
Corner Q-ordon-Btreet & Parlt-roaci, Paddington, Sydney.
TRAMS —Take Paddington Tram to Elizabeth-street, Paddington.
aa
m
v 'r.
-Ml TV
t
%
\
%
%
\
i
%
\
%
s %
H
t
S
!
0
a
It
0
IS
Y
V
i
r
A
L
I
r
v
\j}o^
.tH
d
đ
'o^
i#
#/
0
f
'0k
Wi
Restores
ITMITY
A Guaranteed Cum
for
Nervous Debility and
Lost Vitality.
225. (id. |rer Course.
Smaller Box ss. (id.
■ ». rt- »> Laics'
BALDWIN DRY AIR REFRIGERATOR.
Beware of the many so-called Dry Air Betrigeratora advertised by unscru]>uloits -Manufacturers and Dealers, intending
to deceive the public anief trade upon our reputation. 1 his is the original and celebrated Dry Air .Refrigerator, made
famous by its successful the leading Rxhibitions in the 1 nited States lor the past Six Years, known as
the Baldwin Dry Air Refrigerator.
f . ' : • ' • S * , .
WHITE MOUNTAIN FREEZERS, ICE MILK CANS, MIXERS,
LEMOKT
SQUEEZERS
&0., Aces.
512 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY. ;
Bear Bulletin. —I met an old comrade
who had been in the New Zealand war. I knew
his regiment afterwards in Abyssinia (I’ll not name
it) and I asked him about all the officers. There
was one particularly looney Captain about whom I
enquired. He was “off it” a bit when I knew him
but he only hud one little eccentricity in Maori-
land.- Whenever he was sent on detachment,
after he got his company, section, or squad well
away from the range of head-quarters, he used to
think-he was a General, and he halted his army
and made a speech like this: “My men, you and
I are about to face danger from our enemies. ; If
I should fall, the command will devolve on Lieu-
tenant A., and if he should also be slain or severely
wounded Ensign B. will be your leader. Then
again he may be disabled, wfien Sergeant-Major
0. will have to be obeyed in all respects Jjkc
myself, and so on and on.” A good speech,
and one easily composed and remembered. This
officer is now in the “colonies.” — Hiram Abief.
The Bulletin prophesies a big fight be-
tween the Australian coasting-steamship com-
panies, in which row one of ’em is going to get
hurt. There isn’t much said about it yet, but the
facts are that the A.U.S.N. Company is going to
run its boats beyond Melbourne, a point to which
it has hitherto been limited by an agreement,
leaving the trade west of that port to Howard,
Smith, and Huddart, Parker and Co. By this
arrangement and other compromises peace lias
been maintained between the rival lines for some-
years, during which time the A.U.S.N. has been
getting its feet in, bringing out bigger boats, and
generally preparing to wipe everything else out.
This, it evidently thinks, it is now big enough to
do, for by notifying its intention to go on to
Adelaide it throws down the gage and shakes the
parchment-dust of compromise off its skirts. If
this doesn’t hasten the big coasting “ pool,” it
will be because, by the time a “ pool " is arranged,
there will only be one company to pocket it.
Sydenham Bowden, Customs officer on the
Murray, who, when short in his'cash, shot himself
dead, the other day, was at one time in the Navy.
The writer remembers him in the early sixties as
a delicate-looking stripling of Ip summers, with
the complexion of a girl and the appetite of a
malade imaginaire, whose pampered stomach re-
fused anything less dainty than a slice of chicken-
breast. This in a gun-room caused much merri-
ment among his brother-officers whose longer
acquaintance with “ junk” and “salt-horse” had
weaned them from such delicate notions. Bowden,
who was in the “navigating” branch of the ser-
vice, had to leave for the venial offence of allowing
his boat’s crew to run away whilst on shore on
duty, lie subsequently went to Fiji and lost his
money in sugar-planting ; later on he joined the
Victorian Civil Service and married a daughter of
Mr. Graves, M.L.A. For an ex-sailor, he was a
splendid horseman.
Everybody should use FemeH’s latest best Snow-white
Patent Holler Flock. It is the greatest success of the age.
INFLUENZA IN RUSSIA.
At St. Petersburg all sneeze
With a most unpleasant wheeze.
E’en his majesty, the Czar,
Shouts kershee ! kersho / kershar /
In her handkerchief, kerchief 1
Finds the Empress no relief.
Though she chew oachous, kashoof
Little good oachous can do.
Naught cares she, kershee! kershee!
What her consort’s plight may be.
In her lace mouehoir, mooshwar!
All her feelings centered are.
Tears rain from each eye, kechi!
All the people sneeze and cry.
What’s the reason ? ’Tis not treason
Sets all Russia thus a-sneezin’.
To make, is Influenza’s game,
Every Russ pronounce his name.
EX.


Business Announcements.
E DWIN G. GOERTZ,
Stock and Share Broker,
AGENT,
BRISBANE.
Member of the Brisbane Stock Exchange.
SMOKE NOTHING BUT
PIPES.
©
PIPES.
THE BEST IN THE WORLD,
Wholesale Agents :
JULIUS GOLDSCHMIDT & CO.,
231 Clarence Street,
First Prize—MELBOURNE EXHIBITION.
L LUDOWICI & SOUS,
Manufacturers and Importers of
Superior Oak-Tanned Leather Belting,
And every description of
Leather goods for Machine and Engineering Purposes-
Hydraulic
Leathers.
d
Tangye Pump
Leathers.
All goods bearing the above Trade Mark are warranted to
give satisfaction, or may be returned at our expense.
Office and Factory: IS2 Clarence-St., Sydney,
Between King and Market Streets.
TO ADVERTISERS.
We undertake the advertising: of large business
houses—filing every paper advertised in, checking
appearances, and watching the interests of our
clients. We can save you money, time and
anxiety. Write for our pamphlet “ How to
Advertise, and Why.” F. T. WIMBLE & CO.,
Newspaper Advertising Bureau, Basement A.J.S.
Bank, 369,371 & 373 George-st., Sydney. Estimates
given for any number of papers by return mail.
WOOL. WOOL.
THE NEW ZEALAND
Loan & Mercantile Agency
COMPANY, LIMITED.
BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Capital, £4,500,000 ... Reserve, £270,000
Wool Season, 18S8-S9*
Regular Sales of Wool Held Throughout the
Season.
'THE greatest care bestowed on the Valuation and the
Displaying and Protecting all Wools entrusted to
the Company for sale, whether from large or small clips.
Growers Advised and Consulted with before Sales
of their Clips are made.
Liberal Cash Advances, where desired, on Wool lieu
of Ensuing Clip, and on Wool and other Produce, whether
for sale in Sydney or shipment to London.
Auction Sales of Sheep Skins, Marsupial
Skins, Hides, Tallow, &c., Held Regularly.
Every Information Supplied on Application.
G. S. CAMPBELL, Manager.
SYDNEY WOOL & GRAIN WAREHOUSES
Bridge and Loptus Streets.
-THE-
Fresh Food & |ce (X
LIMITED,
HARBOUR STREET,
SYDNEY,
Are evidently determined to go ahead. They are
now supplying Customers who take a Quart op
Milk and Over per Day at
THREEPENCE PER QUART!
This appears very wonderful, but it is
quite true.
Weekly A.ccounts.
The AUSTRALIAN MERCANTILE LOAN and
GAURANTEE COMPANY, Limited.
Head Office—
Sydney: Corner of Market & York Streets.
Melbourne Branch: 283 Collins-street East.
Brisbane Branch: Corner Edward and Elizabeth Streets.
Newcastle Branch: 87 Hunter Street.
The Company grant immediate advances upon Deeds of
Land, Bills of Lading, Merchandise, Storage and Bond
Certificates, and all classes of mercantile and other approved
securities, for fixed terms or repayable by instalments.
\. MILLER, Acting-Manager.
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
Hotels.
Palls Bridge Family Hottsl,
Falls Bridge, Melbourne.
This magnificent Hotel, 'containing 50 Double
and Single Rooms, is splendidly furnished and
perfectly ventilated.
Hot and Cold Plunge and Shower Baths.
Electric Bells. Telephone 1217. Billiards, Jkc.
Terms Strictly Moderate.
J. H. DITRRANT ° Manager
Late of the South Australian Club Hotel, Adelaide.
Medical
A Lovely Skin
Nothing is known to science at all comparable
to the Cdticuba Remedies in their marvellous
properties of cleansing, purifying and beautifying
the skin, and in curing torturing, disfiguring, itch-
ing, scaly and pimply diseases of the skin, scalp
and blood, with loss of hair from infancy to age.
Cdticuba, the great Skin Cure, and Cdticuba
Soap, an exquisite Skin Beautifier, prepared from
it, externally, and Cdticuba Resolvent, the new
Blood Purifier, internally, are a positive cure for
every form of skin and blood disease, from pimples
to scrofula.
I have had a most wonderful cure of salt rheum.
For five years I have suffered with this disease. I
had it on my face, arms and hands. I was unable
to do anything whatever with my hands for over
two years. I tried hundreds of remedies, and not
one had the least effect. The doctor said my case
was incurable. I saw your advertisement, and
concluded to try the Cdticuba Remedies; and
incredible as it may seem, that after using one
box of Cdticuba, and two cakes of Cdticuba
Soap, and two bottles of Cdticuba Resolvent, I
find lam entirely cured. Those who think this
letter exaggerated may come and see me and find
out for themselves. GRACE P. HARKHAM,
North St. Charles Street, Belle River, Ont.
Cdticuba Remedies are absolutely pure and the
only infallible blood purifiers and skin beautifiers.
ď
TED with the loveliest delicacy is the skin
bathed with Cuticuka Medicated Soap.
I have been afflicted since last March with a skin
disease the doctors called eczema. My face was
covered with scabs and sores, and the itching and
burning were almost unbearable. Seeing your
Cuticuka Remedies so highly recommended, con-
cluded to give them a trial, using the Cuticuka
and Cuticuka Soap externally, and Resolvent
internally, for four months. I call myself cured.
In gratitude for which I make this public statement.
CLARA A. FREDERICK, Broad Brook, Conn.
I have suffered from Salt Rheum for over eight
years, at times so bad that I could not attend to
my business for weeks at a time. Three boxes of
Cuticuka and four bottles Resolvent have en-
tirely cured me of this dreadful disease.
JOHN THIEL,
1875 Second Avenue, New York City.
The box of Cuticuka that you sent me some
months ago did me so much good that I will send
for another box, believing that It will cure me of a
skin disease with which I have been troubled for
eighteen years.
FANNIE I. JOHNSON, Amsterdam, Va.
Sold everywhere. Price: Cuticuka, 50c. ; Soap,
25c.; Resolvent, $l. Prepared by the Potter
Drug and Chemical Co., Boston, Mass.
4ST* Send for “ How to Cure Skin Diseases,” 64
pages, 50 illustrations, and 100 testimonials.
PIM
IPLES, blackheads, chapped and oily skin
I prevented by Cuticura Medicated Soap.
Address: R. TOWNS & CO., SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Business Announcements.
HIGHLY IMUTRITJVE
oa
MAY Ht UH i AINtU IN LABELLED TiNb.Ui* r«CJu£TS-iiiiiaiJIiHQUT.THE CDLUNtf.
ALLAN A. MARSHALL & GO.,
Engineers, Coppersmiths, Brass and Held Founders,
Finishers, Plumbers, Ship & General Smiths,
Gasfitters, Art & Medieval Metal Woßsaag
ROLLER SKATES (any make) with BRASS or WOO BE V WHEELS.
Verity's Gas Fires, Heaters and Ventilators at greatly Reduced Prices —11,000 Fires already in use.
Importers and Manufacturers of Diving Gear, Yacht and Boat Work of every description in
Iron or Brass, Ships’ Single and Double Action Valve Closets, Fire Hydrants, Hose and all appliances
Bon Accord Works, O Macquarie Place, Sydney.
ows
R
EMBROCATION
/ La>.*
11
\EV ER^WHEREvi
i/i
—THE—
FEDERAL REVERSIONARY INVESTMENT
AND
FINANCIAL COMPANY, LIMITED.
(Incorporated Under Companies’ Act, 187 U
CAPITAL .. .. £200,000.
Sydney Office: 301 PITT STREET
A QENCIES in London and throughout Australia.
Immediate advances granted. Bills discounted daily.
Communications from the country promptly attended to.
The following are the rates of interest Allowed on Fixed
Deposits 3 years, 10 per cent. ; 12 months, 9 per cent. ,
(i months, 8 per cent. ; 3 months, 7 per cent. By order
of the Board of Directors.
A. W. Miller. Manager
A Bad Night.
(FOR THE BULLETIN..)
He was travelling on the coast of Northern
Queensland in one of these old-fashioned steamers
wherein the bunks that encircle the saloon are
shut off by curtains only. At dinner the first day
out, the Chinaman who waited table, a clean and
smart youth, behaved somewhat strangely. He
had laid no soup-plates, and, when ordered to do
so by the captain, muttered to himself and looked
vacantly around. Finding his highly garnished
orders were disregarded, the skipper arose and
kicked the inscrutable Chow round the cabin
several times, asking after every kick— “ Now,
will you fetch those plates ?” until the unemotional
Mongol bolted up the hatchway to return in a few
minutes with the needed utensils. This proceeding
was repeated with every course and every meal
during the day ; dogged refusal was met and con-
quered by the strongest measures, and the forgiv-
ing and panting shell-back always accounted for
the misbehaviour of the long-suffering Chow by a
quiet—“ He’s a good ‘boy,’ he’s been losing his
money at fan-tan, when he gets over it he’ll be
all right.”
* * *
That night—it was a scorcher—everyone
except the Sydney man, who feared malaria, slept
on deck; he camped in one of the red-curtained
side-bunks, but found it impossible to sleep.
Believing that the swinging lamp disturbed him,
he “doused” it, and not long after heard a
stealthy step coming down the cabin-stairs
and, peering out, saw the mad Mongolian softly
approaching, his bared right arm holding a
dagger-knife that scintillated in the pale
moonlight. On he came in the most approved
stage-conspirator style, until, reaching the bunk,
he raised his arm on high and with the other
fumbled at the curtain that hid the horrified and
perspiring Sydneyite. Then a wild yell was
launched on the placid bosom of the listening
night, and the Chow swiftly yet silently fled away
into a forecastle darkness that was inhabited only
by cockroaches and snorting deck-hands. On the
following day the Chinaman could nowhere be
found, although hunted for everywhere, and so
meals went off more quietly, but Smith (we’ll call
him Smith), of Sydney, was not satisfied. Ere
retiring he personally inspected every corner of the
cabin, and seeing in one corner a large bundle of flags
which he thought might conceal the crafty China-
man, gave it a tremendous kick. It seemed hard,
but did not apparently contain the lost steward
and Smith retired to toss and tumble as on the
previous night, this time leaving the lamp alight.
* * *
In the middle watch Smith heard a rustling,
and, looking out, beheld the Chinaman enveloped
by the flags of all nations like a serio-comic lady
singer, and doffing his cerements like Lazarus rising
from the dead. Throwing aside the Union Jack
and the yellow small-pox signal, he produced his
snickersnee, and, with stealthy kitten-like tread,
approached Smith’s bunk. Smith did not wait to
be interviewed, for such pointed and heart-
searching interrogations he had no liking,
and so he leaped up and howled ; “Help,
Murder! ” most lustily. A hurried scam-
per overhead gave token that the skipper
and others were on hand, and the thwarted blood-
seeker rushing upstairs threw himself over the
side. The ocean was like a mirror and a boat
being lowered he was speedily picked up and at
once locked up in the storeroom and heavily
manacled. On the following day the steamer
arrived at Thursday Island, and Smith, having
much business to attend to, had almost forgotten
the incident till, being picked up by the steamer
on her downward trip, to his horror, the same
“ boy ” was in attendance. In reply to his
remonstrances, the captain coolly stated that the
Chinaman was a good “ boy,” none better, and
that he had quite got over his little fit of temper.
Scarcely satisfied, the wary Smith, still fearing
fever and ague, still lying below, slept as before
with one eye open and was again successful in
arresting the Chinaman’s bloodthirsty movements
with a loud yell. But, alas for the poor Chow !
Again he dashed over the side, but this time the
sea was rough and the captain less disposed to
exert himself for his recovery, and so he sleeps
after life’s fitful fever among the pearl-shells of
Torres Straits. Fact.
In most of the Australias, the Legislature,
urged on by public opinion, has made it permis-
sible for a man to bind himself in wedlock, to his
deceased wife’s sister. But what is sauce for the
gander is not sauce for the goose : a woman may
not marry the brother of her departed spouse : —
John Jones wed Mary Smith,
Bob Jones espoused her sister,
John had not vital pith
And sank to death’s dark vista.
His brother’s wife died, too,
Bob then went in for Mary,
And, when he came to woo,
She wasn’t a bit chary.
But, sad anomaly,
Though he could wed the widow
She couldn’t legally
Wed him—although she did, oh.
A dead wife’s sister he
Might take as well’s another;
She shouldn’t married be
To her late partner’s brother.
Everybody says—and what everybody says must be true
—that Pemell’s Snow white Patent Roller Flour is the
best in the market.
The Carixoton Yawn.
Graves may gape with wonder,
Chasms yawn asunder,
They never can its magnitude outspan,
And all, above and under,
Declare in voice of thunder,
“ ’Tis a splendid op’ning for a young man.”
T.


a
u
o
N
G
T
A
B
T
Sc
C
o
M
P
A
N
y
Q
U
O
N
G
T
A
R
T
&
C
o
M
P
A
N
Y
Business Announcements.
LOOMG SHAN TEA HOUSE
NOW OPEN.
Quong Tart & Co.’a
EXTENSIVE NEW PREMISES
(Nearly opposite Theatre Royal).
FIRST-CLASS GRILLS,
As well as all kinds of Refreshments, may
be obtained from 7.30 a.m. to 11.30 p.m.
CUP OF DELICIOUS TEA.
ICED DRINKS OF ALL KINDS, &c.
The rooms are splendidly furnished and
fitted up. In addition to the large and
well - appointed Refreshment Rooms,
gentlemen will find on the Second Floor
Commodious and Comfortable Smoking
and Conversation Rooms, furnished with
Chess, Draughts, &c., &o.
TO THE LADIES.
On the First Floor will be found Nice
Private Room for Ladies, convenient for
Writing, Reading, &c., also Retiring
Rooms and Lavatory, with both hot and
cold water laid on. Inspection Invited.
Finest Teas imported—Packets Jib. and
upwards supplied. Orders promptly at-
tended to.
137 KING STREET. SYDNEY.
Sfyvctafa/
*
21
£
>5
KA»UfA«TuR£RS
A IMPORTERS OF ~
HATS CAPS it
*— Tfr ■ »
438 CEORCE ST
3VDNEY
0/opo3i(e LttejeCCetv
J
Branch :
6 7 8 GEORGE STREET,
BRfCKFIELD HILL,
(Next to Craig and Aitken.)
Gitms’ Life Assurance Company
LIMITED.
Capital ... ... £200,000.
Head Office:
21 Castlereagh St, Sydney,
With Branches and Agencies throughout the Colonies.
TNTew Business:
1887 There were issued 10,557 Policies.
1888 „ „ „ 34,«84 „
1880 „ „ „ 57
These figures show the wonderful progress of the
Company and the high esteem placed upon its
liberal dealings by the public.
CLAIMS PAID
Immediately on Proof of Death
JAMES P. GARY AN, \
WM. ALEX. SMITH, /
Managing Director.
Secretary.
PLOUGH-SHARES.
nomSHMR PLOILMM
IN HQUITY.
Hornsby v. Hudson.
—# —
NOTICE
TO THE
Farming Community of fa South Wa os,
HUDSON BROS., Ltd.,
Are still making the Shares which formed
the subject of this great lawsuit. They
are now branded
DEE
and their quality is better than ever.
HUo
funyV
Farmers desirous of encouraging Colonial
Industry can obtain these Shares from our
Local Agent. >
NOTE—Trial samples free of cost.
riv
\m
\JU,
some really smart Resident
Agents in all the Country
Towns throughout the Colonies. A Comfortable
Income for Energetic Persons of either sex.
Apply at once, as time is money, to
“FORTUNE,"
P.O. Box 670, Sydney, N.S.W.
ROBERTS & 00..
—W HOLESALE—
Ironmongers* Importers* Iron and Machinery Merchants*
HAY AND ENGINE STREETS SYDNEY,
Head Office: 85 Gracechurch Street, London, E.C.
IMPORTERS OF
Railway & Bridge Contractors'
Plumbers’
Squatters'
Requirements
IN
Great Variety.
IMPORTERS OF
Engineers' and Blacksmiths'
Conchbuilders’
Mining
AGENTS FOR;
Korting’s Gas EnginesThc best and cheapest yet made. Automatic self-governing, thus saving cost of gas.
Braddock’s Water and Gas Meters and Gas Lamps. Reading Iron Works Universal (Split) Pulley Wheels.
Howe’s Platform and Counter Weighing Machines and Weighbridges.
mm mW'Tri
OHO
iii L-i
Guinness’ Extra Stout,
FIRST QUALITY.
Bass' Pale A le,
FIRST QUALITY.
Sole Purveyors to the
Colonial & Indian Exhibition,
London,
(By Special Appointment).
Wholesale Agents : Balchin, Johnston & Co., Sydney.
M. B. FOSTER & SONS, LONDON,
“BUGLE” IBIKA-lUriD A. LIE A-UNTID stout.
)(
* PUBLIC NOTICE.
It having come to our knowledge that ALE and STOUT of very inferior quality, in bottles with
skillfully,forged labels have lately been palmed off on the public ,
We desire to warn our friends of the fact, and to state that all corks as well as capsules of the
bottles shipped by Messrs. M. B. POSTER & SONS to this colony bear their name and address.
Any infol mati.cn respecting’ Bottled Beer purporting to be Bugle Brand offered
■or sale without these corks and capsules will be esteemed by the undersigned, who have instruc-
tions to bring to justice the perpetrat rs of the frauds.
A Liberal Reward will be given for information leading to conviction of the offenders.
)(
BALCHINT, JOHNSTON & CO., Sydney,
Agents for Messrs. M. B. Foster & Sons.
Agk for Kupper’s Elberfeld Lager Beer
(Specially Brewed for Australia). Absolutely Free from Sediment.
THE '
Wolseley Sheep-Shearing' machine.
I)ASTORALISTS are notified that, to avoid disappointment
no time should be lost in Booking Orders for next Season.
Agents: J. H. GEDDES & C 0.,
19 PHILLIP STREET, SYDNEY.
Federated Squatters
-AND—
Farmers’ Co-Operative Association of Australasia, Limited,
CHKOTJILjA_K ' SUTIDISriEUU.
WOOL and PRODUCE BROKeSTItOCK and STATION AGENTS.
Advances Made and Deposits Received at Current Rates. Correspondence Invited.
A. BOWMAN’S
LONDON MADE
Porpoise Hide Boots
Are Reduced from 30s. to 21s.
249 PITT ST., SYDNEY, Near Tattersall's.
Porpoise Hide Wears Twice as Long*
as any other Leather.
They are noted all oyer London,
Birmingham and Liverpool.
London Faslilona,
AND
Fresh Goods Every Fortnight.
Trade Supplied Wholesale at a Qreat Advantage.
B. MODINI, Gunmakcr, informs his Customers
and the Public in general that he has the largest
assortment of Firearms in the colony. Qualities and prices
to defy competition. Agent for the following celebrated
gunmakers:— J. Purdey & Sons, Ch. Boswell, John Rigby
and Co., Joseph Lang & Sons, Ch. Osborne & Co., Thomas
Bland & Son. A large assortment of various other makers
always on hand, viz., W. W. Greener, Scott, Webley,
Hollis & Sons, Riley and Cash more. All goods will be
faithfully guaranteed at 602 Goorgo-atroct, Sydney.
Price list on application.
Medical.
ARE YOU NERVOUS?
IF SO,
DON’T MISS THIS!
What everyone gays is bound to be true, and young
and old, rich and poor, physicians who recommend, and
patients who try
The Krupp Galvanic Chain Belt,
All agree in praising that most scientific of Electro
Therapeutical Appliances. For Rheumatism it, is un-
rivalled. Lumbago at once succumbs to its power. The
Nervous are strengthened and the Debilitated restored to
perfect health and vigour. In short, the appliance is an
unfailing cure for all Nervous, Sexual, or Chronic Diseases,
and is GUARANTEED to ABSOLUTELY CURE, com-
pletely and lastingly, the following complaints:—
Dyspepsia, Neuralgia, Pains in the Back and Chest,
Lumbago, Catarrh, Rheumatism, Dumb Ague,
Nervous Debility, Paralysis, Kidney Complaint,
Spinal Disease, Female Weakness, Diseases of the
Liver, Impotence, Seminal Weakness, Diabetes,
Sciatica, Atrophy, Gout, Indigestion, Asthma, Piles,
Epilepsy Spermatorrhoea, Specks before the Eyes,
Excessive Heart Palpitation, Defective Memory.
An Unfailing Cure For Varicocele.
It is a PORTABLE BODY BATTERY, and contains
special appliances for both sexes ; therefore, why waste
your money and health by procuring and taking USELESS
DRUGS ? Electricity, when properly applied, is acknow-
ledged by all leading and unprejudiced physicians to be
the only safe and radical cure for Nervous and Sexual
Diseases, and the thousands of testimonials received by
the Krupp Belt Co. from leading personages throughout
Australasia prove the unquestionable curative properties
of Electricity,as applied by theappliance above referred to.
Our confidence in this appliance is so complete, that
we send the Belt out on trial, and guarantee it
to give perfect satisfaction. For full particulars as to
terms, etc., send for our large illustrated treatise, free,
in which these Belts are fully illustrated, the action of
electricity on the nervous system explained, and a lot of
useful information on nervous and sexual diseases given.
This treatise also contains facsimile of testimonials received
from some of our clients who have tried our Belts. The
originals of these testimonials produced on application.
The prices of the Krupp Galvanic Chain Belt and
Suspensory are from £l.
Sole Inventor Carl Krupp.
Business Manager . . A. W. Courtney.
Address all communications to the
Krupp Galvanic Chain Belt Co.,
Box 647, G.P.0., Sydney, N.S.W.
Remember—The K.G. Chain Belt cures without medicine,
is easy to wear, is sent on approval, and the first cost is
the only cost.
INDISPENSABLE pOB RADIES
AND ALL PERSONS
MOD SON'S
COCOA BUTTERSOAP
Cocoa Butter Soap is a real skin-beautifler, and a balm to
young and old alike.
MOUSON & CO., PERFUMERS & TOILET SOAP MANUFACTURERS,
FRANK FORT-ON-THB-MAINB.
London; 32&33 hainskll-st., e.c. Paris: 29 rub radzierilb
Full guarantee for perfect purity is offered by the
sole Manufacturers, Mquson & Co.
JULIUS GOLDSCHMIDT & CO.,
231 CLARENCE-ST., SYDNEY,
SOLE AGENTS FOR AUSTRALASIA.
A Wonderful Remedy-
MARSHALL’S TONIC NERVINE
Is now Universally Acknowledged to be a wonderful
Remedy for Nervous and General Debility, Nervous
Prostration, Torpidity of the Liver, Indigestion, Palpit-
ation of the Heart, Nervous Headache, Diabetes, Lassitude,
Impaired Nutrition, Neuralgia, Hypochondria, Loss of
Energy, and Appetite, Female Complaints, Dizziness
Noises in the Head and Ears, Loss of Vital Power, Alcholio
Craving, Premature Decline, Impoverished Blood, Im-
paired Sight and Memory, Consumption in its early stages,
Effects of Youthful Indiscretions, Mania, and all diseased
conditions of the system preceding from Deficiency of
Nerve Force. A few doses speedily afford relief, whilst a
course effects a permanent cure. Innumerable instances
emphatically testify to the truth of this statement.
Thousands of testimonials invite the afflicted to test it for
themselves.
Each Drop is Worth a Drop of Gold.
There is no remedy like Marshall’s Tonic Nervine for
Female Complaints. Every female should have a
bottle ready at hand, because for Irregularities, etc.,
it surpasses all others. As the nervous system is the
main-spring of human vigor and healthful regularity,
to where this complicated organism is deranged, Marshall’s
Tonic Nervine acts with a precision and curative effect
ike the day spring dispersing the shades of night. The
whole organic system which depends upon the nerves for
its streams of electric force is recuperated and renewed
with this Great Vitaliser. The muscles rebound with the
energy of youth, appetite and healthful condition follow.
The skin becomes bright and clear, and the winter of
disease is made summer by the glorious sun of health.
Thousands of restored patients everywhere gladly support
the forcible truth of these assertions, and one trial will
render certainly doubly sure.
Marshall’s Tonic Nervine
Is sold by all Chemists and Storekeepers, and is
ONLY PREPARED BY
MARSHALL BROTHERS.
110, George Street, Sydney.
N.B.—ln consequence of spurious imitations of “Tonic
Nervine,” which are calculated to deceive the public,
Marshall Bros, have to request that purchasers see that
the Label ou every bottle bears their signature, thus—
without which no bottle is genuine. Ask for Marshall’s
Tonic Nervine and see that you get it. Trade mark:
“Tonic Nervine.”
THE PRESCRIPTION
13. C. Ij.
WHAT IS IT?
THOMAS MCREERY=
MEDICAL HERBALIST,
83 Oxford Street, i doors above Riley Street.
Private Diseases of Doth Sexes a Speciality.
Consultations Gratis. Charges very Moderate.
A Trial Solicited.
A SPEEDY CURE GUARANTEED.


I Medical.
A NEVER FAILING- CURE FOR ALL.
Diseases of the nervous system.
Complete with Suspensory Appliances from £l. 0. 0 and
upwards. This famous Electric Magnetic Belt will cure
NERVOUS DEBILITY, Seminal Debility* Impotence)
and all weakness caused by indiscretiort. Tains in the
Back, Lumbago, Giddiness, Rheumatism, Kidney and
Bladder complaints, ahd in-fact any disease of the Nervous
Bystem. The currents are steady and constantly felt by
the wearer-. It has great improvements over all other
belts. We arc Willing to furnish those belts on 30 days
trial, and accept payment after they have proved them-
selves what we represent them to be. Those belts are
made for the specific purpose of producing a continuous,
mild, soothing current of electricity through all the weak-
ened parts, restoring them to health and vigorous strength,
even the worst case permanently cured in three months.
It is more convenient to wear than any other Belt.
A Book illustrated, containing full information and testi-
monials from prominent people throughout Australia,
and informing persons how they may obtain these belts
Without paying for them until they have proved then! com-
petent to cure any disease of the NervoUs System, Will be
forwarded to any address on receipt of a 2d stamp for
postage.
Address t— VOLTAIC BELT COMPANY
Box 916, G. P. 0., Svcinsy,
3Dr O James D. Llewellyn,
L.R.C.P., M.R.C.S., L.S.A., LOND.,
Registered by the Medical Boards of Victoria, New South
... Wales and England,
Specialist in Chronic, Nervous and (Tenito-Urluaby
Diseases, may be consulted daily at
~325 LONSDALE STREET—
fbitWcen Swanston di Elizabeth StsJ,
MEL BOURNE.
Confidence Absolute. Curable Cases Guaranteed.
All Personal Consultations are frEe ; but by
Letter, a Fee of £1 is charged, which is ilidhlsiVe
of medicines. Patients living at a distance and
unable to attend personally can be treated by post,
and have their remedies forwarded per mail or
express to any part of Australia, carefully packed
and concealed from observation.
NERVOUS MEN.
\ \ eurekaMUM
ELECTRIC BELTH
A / lAS \\v xvA
n
VS
$
m
* 1801 *
BARRY'S
Tricopims
FOR
THE HAIR
‘k.
um
Mm
An elegant dress
itig. exquisitely per
fumed removes all
impurities from the
Scalp, prevents baldness and gray hair, and
Causes the hair to grow Thick, Soft , and
(Beautiful* Infallible for curing eruptions
v)f the skin, diseases of the glands, muscles
and integuments, and relieving cuts, burns,'
Druises, sprains, &c.
Barry’s Pearl Cream
Imparts to the darkest skid a clear, natural
White, tinged with the faintest rose-blush'
It speedily removes wrinkles, freckles, sun-
burn and tan, and mantles the faded cheek
With youthful bloom and beauty >
Barry’s Hair Dye.
Put up in two forms, with and without
h preparation Without the preparation,
gradually colors the hair any shade desired,
from a light brown to a black With the
preparation, instantly colors tl\e hair a na-
tural jet black the moment it is applied.
CV*M#io/i-None of these preparations gen-
uine without the trade mark of Ba-rola j
& Co , New York, affixed to eapb bottle
V."'->:• .WOV
N
mmim
S
&
tmim
8
'T'HIS valuable Lotion is guaranteed to cure SWELLING
T . and SANDY BLIGHT, INFLAMED EYES and LIDS,
DIMNESS OF SIGHT, &c. It will be found very bene
ncial and cooling to those who have weak eyes, or whosi
work compels them to strain their eyes. Highly
recommended by the leading Oculists.
Manufactured only by the Proprietor,
IEriLCZ^SESJbiSp
Dispensing and Manufacturing Chemist
531 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Wholesale by the Proprietor and all Wholesale Houses.
Established 1888. By Post Ss. 6d.
Manufacturer of Dr. SOUTHAN’S GOUT and
RHEUMATIC PILLS.
IST A BLESSING IN EVERY FAMILY.
TTOLLOWAY’S pills and ointment.
r#-JL There is not a country in the civilised world where
Die healing virtues of thes ® grand medicines have not been
recognised by thousands of sufferers. In all the ordinary
ailments of humanity their beneficent action is at once
recognised. Fullest directions are supplied for their use
m every disease. IF YOU SUFFER, TRY THEM. Manu-
factured only at 70 Nrw Oxford-st., London. { Pur-
I*! ors 2i lou]d '°°* t to the Isabel on Die Boxes and Pots.
H me aduross is not 523 Oxiford-streetXLondon, they arc
Uurmus
Medical.
A WONDERFUL MEDICINE.
Beecham’s Pills
C Ma
%>
&
PATENT
PILLS.
*
a*
Are universally admitted
to be worth a Guinea
a Box for bilious
and nervous disorders,
such as wind and pain in
the stomach, sick head-
ache, giddiness, fulness
and swelling after meals,
dizziness, and drowsiness,
cold chilis, flushings of
heat, loss of appetite,
shortness of breath, cos-
tiveness, scurvy, blotches
on the skin, disturbed
sleep, frightful dream/,
and all nervous and tr/m-
-bling sensations, &c. The
first dose will give relief
in twenty minutes. Every
sufferer is earnestly invited to try one box of these
Pills, and they will be acknowledged to be
Worth a Giiiiioa, a Box ;
t’br females of all ages these Pills are invaluable,
as a few doses of them carry off all humors, and
bring about all that is required. No female should
be without them. There is no medicine to be found
equal to BEECHAMS PILLS for removing any
obstruction or irregularity of the system. If taken ac-
cording to the directions given with each box they will
soon restore females of all ages to sound and robust
health. This has been proved by thousands who have
tried them, and found the benefits which are ensured by
their use,
For a Weak stomach, impaired digestion and all disorders
of the rivet, they act like “ MAGtC;” and a few doses will
be found to work wonders upon the most important
organs in the human machine; they strengthen the
Whole riluscular systehi, restore the long-lost boniplexiort,
bring back the keen edge of appetite, and arouse into ac-
tion with the ROSEBUD of health the whole physical
energy of the human frame. These are “ FACTS” tes ified
continually by members of all classes of society ; and
one of the best guarantees to the nervous and debilitated
is, Beecham’s Pills have the largest sale of any patent
medicine in the world.
Beecham’s Magic Cough Pills.
As a remedy for Coughs in general, Asthma, Bronchial
Affections, Hoarseness, Shortness df Breath, Tightness
and Oppression of the Chest, Wheezing, &c., these Pills
stand unrivalled. They are the best ever offered to the
public and * ill speedily remove that sense of oppression
and difficulty of breathing which nightly deprive the
patient of rest. Let any person give Beeciiam’s Cough
Pills a trial and the most violent Cough will in a
short time be removed.
Prepared only and sold wholesale and retail by the pro-
prietor, thoilias Beechaiti, Chemist, St. Helens, Lancashire,
England, in boxes at Is. ILL and 2s. 9d. each.—Sold by
all Druggists and Patent Medicine Dealers everywhere.
N.B.—Full directions are given with each box.
CONSULT
M
CORE &
Hogg
THE EMINENT
SPECIALISTS,
6rt ail Diseases OTthe Genlto-Urlhary Organs
Nervous Diseases, and PrlvatS Complaints,
1 , CORBETTS BUILDINGS, corner of Qeorgt
and Elizabeth Btreetti Brisbane.
OOt.SULTATIpNS FREE, rERSONAULY OB BY LETTfeS.
go* 68 G.P.Oi) Book sent bn receipt of 2d. stdmp.
Prof. R. T. SELBY
Is considered to be the most Successful Practi-
tioner ill the Australian colonies. All sufferers
should read the Doctor’s most unique work on
Nervous, Private and other Diseases. The
Advice on Marriage is worth its weight in gold.
Send your full address, and Wfe will send (post
free) One Copy. Write to Prof. R. T. SELBY,
Cleveland Street, Surry Hill, SYDNEY.
P C. NICHOLES & Co.,
WHOLESALE
Confectioner's & Pastrycooks*
City Buildings;
73© George Street, 738
HAYMABKBT.
Steam Works :
617, 619, 621, 539, 541 HARRIS STREET.
Wedding Cakes, &c., Made to Order.
EPPS’S
GRATEFUL—COMFORTING
COCOA.
Dr. westcott’s amenorrhcea
PILLS for Ladies, when taken for a few
days before, quickly correct all irregularities
from whatever cause arising ; 2s. 9d. and 4s. 6d.,
by post 3s. and ss. W. H. SOUL and CO., 190
Pitt-street, Sydney, Agents.
WALTER ZEIOZPIB,
General Merchant & Commission Agent,
199 SUSSEX STREET, SYDNEY.
CONSIGNMENTS of all Produce, Live Stock, etc.,
; received and realised in the best markets. Account
Sales and Proceeds remitted the day after sale. Orders
executed for all Goods from Sydney at Lowest Wholesale
Prices
Speciality. —Pure-bred and Pedigree Stock of all de-
scriptions Bought or Sold on Commission. All communi-
cations referring to Pure-bred Poultry and Eggs for Setting
to be addressed as usual to WALTER HOPE, Bonnyrigg
Prize Poultry Farm, Liverpool, N.S.W.
SPECIAL NOTICE.—The Sydney Bulletin.
Tasmanian Edition Publishers, FITZ-
GERALD BROS. Subscription (payable strictly
in advance), Six Shillings and Sixpence ner quar-
ter, or One Pound per annum.
The Bulletin will be on Sale every Friday at
the Office, George Street, Launceston, or from the
Runners in the street.
Business Announcements.
The bank oe new Zealand.
Sydney Branches i
64 PITT STREET, and 538 GEORGE STREET.
Paid-up Capital £1,125,000
The Bank has Agents in all the principal cities
throughout the United States of America and
Canada, and can offer special facilities for dealing
in Bullion, Bills of Exchange, Commercial and
Travellers’ Letters of Credit.
Drafts issued and Bills collected on most favour-
able terms, at rates which can be ascertained on
application,
N. F. GIBLIN, Manager.
Reacl I Read ! Read I
“THE BULLETIN’S”
History of Botany Bay,
By Arthur Gayll.
Profusely Illustrated by The Bulletin’s well-
known Artists,
L. HOPKINS and PHIL MAY.
Rrice - One SHlllizig
Per post, Is. 3d.
Wholesale Agents :
Victoria: A. Benjamin, 321 Little Collins-st., Melbourne
Melbourne : Gordon & Gotch.
Brisbane: J. H. Thompson, Bookseller, George-street.
Adelaide: Neville & Co.
Tasmanian; Fitzgerald Bros., George-street, Launceston.
“What is HomE Without a Picture?”
L. BEENASCONI,
(Late R. Smith)
Elite Carver, Gilder, and Picture Frame Maker,
159 Clarence Street Only, SYDNEY
(near Central Coffee Palace).
Plush Work a Speciality. Mounts Cut to any Design.
MUSICAL.
PATENT SCALE INDICATOR for Pupils Learning the
Piano. Price, 3s. 6d. And IMPROVED VAMPING
SYSTEM, without a knowledge of Music, 5». 6d., posted
to the country from Ingham’s, Sydney Arcade.
Country Agents Wanted—Stationers.
J. SITTERLIN,
FROM PARIS,
Ladies' Hairdresser. Wigraaker. & Perfumer,
25 SYDNEY ARCADE, SYDNEY.
HISTORICAL AND FANCY HAIRDRESSING A
SPECIALTY.
Manufacturer of All Kinds of Theatrical
and Street Wigs,
iliiliioiilalcd Quinine,
The most efficient Hair Lotion, to prevent prema-
ture baldness.
Sitterlifi’s Vegetable Hair-dye,
The only Hair-dye ih the colonies to restore Light
Hair to its natural colour, All shades.
Success Gruaranteed.
MANUFACTURING HATTERS
GEORGE STREET
SVD N EY
IMPORTERS OFALLTHE
NEWESTSHAPES.
And at ALBERT STREET, BRISBANE.
AUCHS
m
THE BEST
IN THE WORLD
MANUfACTURCD ftY , „ t Alt
CMAWOh Marbcu-rS*
Business Announcements.
■JIHE THREE GREAT LIGHTS!
'The Needles Patent Gas>making Machine 5
The Harvey Patent Safety Kerosene Lamp {
And the New Era Portable Gas Lamp.
The Harvey Lamp has been adopted by the
Railway Commissioners for lighting the Sydney
trams. We were awarded the Highest Order of
Merit and Special Mention by experts at the
late Melbourne Exhibition for our lighting
mediums. Over 6000 Harvey Lamps are in use
in this colony, and for all lighting purposes are
giving universal satisfaction. These Lamps can
be seen on_ one of the North Shore ferry-boats,
and are suitable for all classes of vessels. The
Inventor offers £2OO to anyone producing as good
a Kerosene Burner.
Patentees for Australasia:
H. T. Smith & Co , 454 Kent St. South, Sydney;
11 Arcade, Adelaide, S.A.; Argent Street, Broken Hill;
Parkside Iron Works, Melbourne.
—THE—
SYDNEY SOAP & CANDLE CO.,
Limited,
MANUFACTURERS OF
Btearine and Paraffin Candles,
HOT & COLD WATER SOAP
Of every Description
Glycerine, Lubricating, Machine, Cloth and
Neatsfoot Oils.
The only Genuine and Original
Magic Cleanser Cold Water Soap*
To be had at all Grocers and Storekeepers.
Upfold’s Tree Pest Exterminator,
Its Effects are Marvellous!
H. HILDER,
BOOT UPPER MANUFACTURER
IMPORTER OP
ENGLISH AND FOREIGN LEATHER,
Elastic Web, Grindery, Ac.,
Wholesale and Retail Leather Merchant
539 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
—THE—
Art Furnishing Warehouse.
BEARD, WATSON & CO.,
361 Georgs Street, SYDNEY,
Direct attention to their Magnificent Stock of
Carpets, Floorcloths, Linoleums,
And other Floor Coverings, in the
NEWEST DESIGNS A AUTISTIC COLOURINGS.
Art Decorations, Upholstery Work and
Window Draping a Speciality,
All Orders executed by a Staff of Experienced
Workmen, and Special Attention given to the carry-
ing out of Customers' wishes with punctuality and
promptitude.
Hotels.
B X , ;E3:3FS,:Kr HOTEL,
Warniambool, Victoria.
THIS old-established and well-known Family
and Commercial Hotel combines all the
requirements of a First-Class Hotel with home
comforts.
It is in full view of the sea and within a short
distance of the picturesque scenery of the Hopkin’s
River, which affords the finest Rod and Fly Fishing
in the colony.
Arrangements made for the Hire of Rowing and
Fishing Boats and Fishing Tackle. Bait, etc.,
supplied. U3T Good Shooting in the immediate
neighbourhood.
It is also within Two Minutes’ walk of the Hot
and Cold Sea Water Baths, which are unsur-
passed in the colonies.
S 3?” Livery and Letting Stables.
Booking Office for Cobb & Co.’s Coaches. Thos.
Cook & Sons’ Hotel Coupons taken.
GEORGE W. CLARE - Proprietor.
THE GEORGE HOTEL
(opposite Railway Station. , near Baths),
St. Kilda, Victoria.
First-class Family & Commercial Hotel.
42T For particulars, apply to
P. WIMPOLE,
PROPRIETOR,
Royal hotel.
Esplanade,
ST. KILDA, VICTORIA,
Pacing Beach, close to Pier and Baths. Ten
minutes from Station.
H. MOONEY .... Proprietor.
LIVERY LETTING STABLES ATTACHED.
Telephone 682.
First-class Accommodation for Visitors
JjONGTS IMPERIAL HOTEL,
TOOWOOMBA, QUEENSLAND
Acknowledged the Best Hotel on the Darling
Downs. First-class Accommodation.
Private Suite*. First Glass Sample Rooms.
Conveyance Meets Every Train.
JOHN LONG ■ ■ Late of New Zealand


SHEVILL & CO.,
Corner Queen Street and Flinders Lane,
MELBOURNE.
MERCANTILE AUCTIONEERS,
House, Land, and Estate Agents,
■ I':;
ISitS'S
-
m
IJSI]SL
a
Advances made against shipments of Merchandise
and Colonial Produce.
Daily Sales held at their Commodious
New Booms.
OUTDOOR
Furniture & Land Sales Conducted.
Branch
Offices
f 32 Chapel St., Prahran. \
I 2 Albert St., Windsor. /
BiiANxn
Offices
P. R. LARKIN.
IMPORTER OF
x SIP I IT S, x BEEE S, x ETC.,
George and Gipps Streets, Sydney.
SPECIALITIES:
John Jameson’s Dublin Whisky (5 to 10 years old); W. Jameson’s, Dunvillb’s Rob’s and Wise’s (old Cork) Whiskies.
Hennessy’s, Kartell’s and Sazerao’s Brandies (5, 10, 15 and 21 years old).
The Choicest and Oldest SCOTCH WHISKIES (in wood), Imported and Bottled by P.lt.L,'
The Best Port and Sherry Wines and Champagnes. All Brands of Colonial Wines. The leading brands
of Bottled Ale and Stout, arriving by monthly steamers.
Prince of Wales Hotel, 773 & 780 George Street.
anil jingle Bottle iDEpaijtments, 283 anil VS4 €(2ci|gc-st., Syflney.
SEND FOR A PRICE LIST.
FIRST-CLASS LADIES’ REFRESHMENT ROOM & LAVATORY,
GIPPS STREET (Opposite A. Hordern & Sons.)
)x(
Produce Stores, Gipps St,, and Darlingliurst Road.
HEAD OFFICE; GIPPS STREET (Next Prince of Wales Hotel).
I
fi ■ E
3XT3E3A7V
FURNITURE
WAREHOUSES,
York Street, Wynyard Square, Sydney,
Now supply the General Public as well as the Trade.
■ >*<
10,000 Bedsteads,
From XOs. 6ci. to £35.
■
AUCTIONEERS* ESTATE AGENTS
I 1
•> :'■<
■
BAY L E E & CO.,
General Auctioneers and E tats Agents,
3‘is Collins Street, Kelhournc. ami II Chapel
Street, South lurra.
UET’ar’ecs Prescriptions
Are to bo found in the “ Light anti Life,’
for the Speedy Cure of Nkrvous Debility and
Kindred Diseases, &c. A copy of this book will
be sent Free, sealed, for Six Penny Stamps.
Address —
S. WARD Sc SO., SYDNEY PHARMACY,
7G HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
0
đ
lliiutiiiKlon .11111.
a
J
-
KuowieV I'iiiuits.
PARKE &
*3
MINING & HYDRAULIC ENGINEERS
AND
GENERAL MACHINERY MERCHANTS,
&c.,
&c., &c.
187 & 189 Clarence Street,
SYDNEY, 3XT.S.W.
And SAN FRANCISCO, CALIFORNIA.
Jtoek Breakers.
tv cMiiiglliouso lln^inrs,
TAKGrYES, LIMITED
Hay St., Haymarket, Sydney,
ENGINES,
2 to 50 H.p.
BOILERS,
1 to 35 h.p.
STEAM PUMPS
For all purposes.
QUIN. PIPS,
2'' to 40’' discharge.
HAND PUMPS.
Saw Benches.
X<atb.ea.
sm mmi.
&c„ &a
mm
J
tancyes
aWminchmi
555
Mam
at.
-SZM
rosiMß INEIHES,
Hauling Engines,
Battery Engines.
Saw-mill Engines.
W,l M
ENGINES
KOR
Electric Lighting.
Vertical Boilers,
Muliitubular Boilers.
C'OKMSII BOILI KH.
&0., &0.
We invite al those requiring Machinery of any kind for any purpose, large or small, to write tor particulars and prices. From the extent of our stock we are generally able to give immediate delivery.
Visitors, whether buyers or not, are always welcome to inspect the magnificent display in our new and extensive Showrooms,
129, 131, X 3 3 & 135 HAY STHEBT, H Al YM A.RKZE T, SY33WEY.
