

.
1
Ma-rlteet Street, STD^TET.
• -
UNRIVALLED ACCOMMODATION.
rtnaroi,
BALDWIN BEY AIR ESFEI6SEITBE. -
Beware of the many so-called Dry Air Refrigerators advertised by unscrupulous Manufacturers and Dealers, intending
to deceive the public and trade upon our reputation. This is the original and celebrated Dry Air Refrigerator, made
famous by its successful competition at the leading Exhibitions in the United States for the past Six Years, known as
the Baldwin Dry Air Refrigerator.
WHITE MOUNTAIN FREEZERS, IDE MILK CANS, MIXERS,
LEMOM SQUEEZERS, , Sc., &S 2.
Bros. ZLtcL,
512 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
rjiHE COLONIAL MUTUAL LIEE ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED.
BRANCHES THROUGHOUT THE COLONIES AND THE UNITED KINGDOM.
Policies issued under the Ox-c3.lxla.r3r, “X 1 0x1 -tine and Mortuary :oividLensa Systems.
Tlx© 3&E TJ "X” XJ Jk. I. STORE, Limltefl,
Opposite the FLINDERS STREET TERMINUS, MELBOURNE.
The advantages of the Mutual Store are now offered to the general public, and Visitors to Melbourne will have all their requirements supplied from under One Roof.
The following arc the Departments of the Store: —Grocery and Dressed Provisions. Poultry and Game. Grain and Fuel. Wine, Beer and Spirits. Stationery and Fancy Goods. Iron-
mongery ; General Furnishing and Electroplate. Boots and Shoes. Woollens and Tailoring. Gentlemen’s Mercery. Furniture and Carpets. China and Glass. Drapery : General. Hosiery
and Gloves. Millinery and Dressmaking. Mantles. Underclothing. Silks and Dresses. Manchester.
£2T Refreshment Rooms, where Light Luncheon and Afternoon Tea are provided. RW Well-appo'nted Broughams, Victorias, Waggonettes, etc., from Company’s own Livery Stables
on Hire by Hour, Day, Week or Month.
Special attention is paid to Country and Station Orders. Cash Customers removing their own Goods are entitled to a Discount of 5 per cent. Open to the Public for Cash Purchases.
f g
fg
Howard’s Colonist 3-Furrow Digging
Plough.—(B.Z.O.L)
f
Howard's Single-Furrow Digging
Plouglr.-(0.1.)
The of tlie Times!
PLOUGHING AND HARROWING IN ONE ACT.
Share Points only cost 6d., and are Reversible.
Chaff-Cutters, Horse Gears and every kind of Agricultural Implements
IZEnT STOCK,
d?" Enquirers please quote this paper.
2801 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
(Corner of Pitt and Bathurst Streets).
£ GET O/jA
4
r*
A,A
\' s ,i fa
, *
Wy
I 1 '-5
wmW:
L & s
%//
y z
The LONDON & SYDNEY TEA COMPANY,
409 KENT STREET (Two Doors from Market Street), SYDNEY,
—IMPORT—
HI I G- H-C LASS IIsTDIALT & CHIITA
gf
Packed in 201 b. and 401 b. Packages, and delivered at Is. 6d., is. 9d. and 2s. per lb.
(Carriage Free) to any Railway Station or Port in New South Wales.
A Single Package at Wholesale Price. Correspondence invited and promptly attended to.
The Bulletin
Yob 11—No. 520.]
[Saturday, February 1, 1890.


TOBACCO
Ififi
TO
m
■-
o
gf
g
£
r 8
fg
fg
f
DIXSONS
Dr. RIDGE’S
FOOD
FOE INFANTS AND INVALIDS
Has an enormous sale in England
and is now being introduced into the
Colonies.
Every Storekeeper should get a supply
as every Wise mother will certainly
use it.
DR. RIDGE’S ROYAL FOOD MILLS,
LONDON, ENGLAND.
■TXABISS; I
mjm
TBUNKSIfrCaC JB
■J-iSa
/j. o>
BROWN’S
SATIN
POLISH
—FOR—
LADIES’ AND CHILDREN'S
BOOTS AND SHOES.
Awarded highest honors at
Phila., 1876 Melbourne, 1880
Berlin, 1877 j Frankfort, 1881
Paris, 1878 1 Amsterd’m 1883
New Orleans, 1884-85, and wherever
exhibited.
Paris medal on every bottle.
Beware of Imitations.
This Blacking is in liquid form and is applied to slices
or other articles of leather by means of a sponge, attached
to the cork by a wire, so that the blacking can be used by
anj one without soiling the fingers. No polishing brush
is required. It dries immediately after being applied, and
will not soil the most delicate clothing.
bold largely in Australia through Commission Merchants
and Dealers.
B. F. BE-OWN & CO.,
Boston, U.S.A., M’f’gs.
T> RITTENBERG & CO.
IMPOSTERS,
81 Clarence St,, Mynyarrt Square.
furniture, Mirrors, Oleographs, and Mouldings.
ATKINSON’S ,
ENGLISH PERFUMERY
surpasses all others for its natural
fragrance.
ATKINSON’S CELEBRATED
EAU DE COLOGNE
Is Unequalled for its Strength and
Delightful Odour. It far surpasses
the numerous compounds sold under
the same name,
ATKINSON’S
FLORIDA WATER,
An exceptionally fine Perfume for
the Handkerchief, distilled from the
choicest exotics.
Of all Dealers and of the Manufacturers—
J. & E. ATKINSON,
24, OLD BOND STREET, LONDON.
, Trade Mark—“ White Rose” on “Golden /
Lyre,” with Address in full.
T. LAWLESS, June.,
37 MARKET STREET,
SYDNEY,
Insure Your Health Against All Risks
—BY TAKING—
Kruse's Fluid .
It Cools the Blood, Promotes a Healthy Flow of the Secretions
and Fortifies the System against the Shafts of Disease.
The Best Aperient For Children. Numerous Gold Medals.
SUPERIOR to ELll OTHERS!
(Vide Medical Testimonials, Analysis, &0., accompanying each Bottle.)
x x
TAKE ONLY KRUSE’S —
Sold in Bottles at Is. 3d,, 2s. 6d., 3s. 6d. Each.
Wholesale Agents: Messrs. ELLIOTT Bros., Ltd
claiHydonhotelTmayly,
The Brighton of New South Wales.
AT the CLARENDON HOTEL, Banquets, Suppers, Private Dinners, Evening Parties, etc are
served on the Shortest Notice in the Large Dining Hall. Besides having a most recherche
Dinner, you can enjoy from the balconies the magnificent view of the sea and surrounding country ■
here also you can have good company, good wines—in fact, everything that can possibly make one
comfortable can be found at this really first-class hotel. Fishing and Picnic Parties provided Table
dc Hote at One o’clock daily and Sundays. No expense is spared by Mrs. KILMINSTER to make her
Aisitors comfortable and her Hotel the best in the colony.
I2IX.MIKTSTER, 01sLK*<ssoLcaL«z»i-x Hotel,
Opposite OCEAN BEACH, MANLY.
JOHN - BUC JESZ 3E3E
*449 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
• %
Tents, Tarpaulins, Woo!, Dray and Waggon Covers
(greased or oiled), Canvas Water Bottles, Coolers, Whim
Buckets, Horse Hugs, Nose Bags, Oiled Loin Cloths. Send
to or call at
449 ELIZABETH STREET, MELBOURNE
(Oldest Established House in the Trade).
SURVEYORS TENTS A SPECIALITY.
68 Hunter Street, and 8 Bligh Street,
SYDNEY.
F. SHEOEDEE
LIVERY, BAIT, LET-OUT AND COMMIS-
SION STABLES.
t Horses and Vehicles of every description for
Sale or Hire; also, good reliable Ladies or Gentle-
men’s Hacks.
WILLIAM CARGILL,
Photographic Stock Importer,
2 6 MARKET STREET, SYDNEY.
gf
V /
/ l s
w:
'O.
Al/Vp
D
vl>
1]
/IV
'IN
e
o
L
mi
&
o
Offices
g
'K-
Purchasers should see that the Label on every bottle of the original
WORCESTERSHIRE SAUCE
bears the Signature, thus ;
Ask for Lea & Peterin' s’ Sauce, and see Name on Wrapper, Label, Bottle and Stopper.
Wholesale and for Export hi the Proprietor Worcester: Crosse & Blackwell, London, sc. , $c.J
and by Grocers and Oilmen throujhout the World.
The
—Everyone should Read—
BUIjIjETIN’S
“HISTORY of BOTANY BAY,”
By AHTHUR GAYLL.
Profusely Illustrated by u The Bulletin’s'’ well-known Artists, L. Hopkins and Phil May.
Price - ONE SHILLING; per Post., Is. 3d.
May be had from Agents, or direct from “ The Bulletin ” Office.
Agents —-Victorian : A. Benjamin, 321 Little Collins Street East, Melbourne ; Tasmanian: Fitzgerald Brothers, George Street,
Launceston; Queensland: J. H. Thompson, George Street, Brisbane.


Business Announcements.
BEALE * COMPANY’S
BTew Warehouse.
OUR NEW SHOWROOMS AND HEAD OFFICES,
482 and 484 George Street,
SYDNEY.
A RADICAL REFORM,
u oh, I feel so Mondayish ! ” exclaims the housemother
at her breakfast table on the Monday morning. Although
the above absurd adjective is not to be found in the dic-
tionary, yet every woman well knows its meaning when
she looks forward to the teeming, steaming, boiling, toil-
ing, temper-trying, hateful washing day. The house is
thrown out of joint, other weekly duties are, as far as
possible, set aside, the children kept out of the way, a cold
dinner for the family, and a warm reception for anyone
who intrudes to waste time and to prolong the agony.
Happy, indeed, is the home where “washing day” is a
thing of the past. Every busy, hard-pressed mother
knows the wretchedness and gioom which the present
washing day brings down upon the household. In the
early morning all is prepared for the all important washer-
woman, timed to arrive for an early breakfast, and then
to attack the week or fortnight’s batch of soiled linen.
The good-natured husband readily excuses a hastily-pre-
pared breakfast, for he hopes it may betoken the speedy
ending of the dreadful day. The children are packed off
to school, and then begins in earnest the strife between
the housewife, anxious to get everything finished in good
time, and the professional laundress, equally anxious to
make the work last over two days. With the greatest
impartiality the laundress divides her attention between
the discussion of light refreshments and the very latest
gossip, the intervals of time being filled up with a gentle
application to her special functions
Very many of our valued customers to whom we have
supplied labor-saving appliances in the past, do their own
washing. In every family, in our climate, frequent
changes of underclothing are necessary. Then there are
the house linen, the cotton dresses, white coats, and
outer garments; and all this is heaped up for the poor
house-mother to cleanse, perhaps with the assistance of a
daughter, if there is one old enough. It is not that the
husband, who also works hard, is unkind. Expenses are
many, economy is imperative, days of depression and of
trouble must be provided against. So the washing is to
be done, and the wife must do it ; and after the imperfect
rest of a sultry night, as she.gets ready the breakfast upon
a hot Monday morning, she feels for a while that her lot
is cheerless, that the apportionment of toil is beyond her
share and beyond her strength ; that somehow a change
should be made. No wonder that fair young girls, after a
few years of married life, become worn-looking, and that
they ag; faster than they ought. The husband is willing
enough to cherish the good wife’s comeliness, and to make
her lot easy, but how ? She does not complain, only says
she feels always “ tired ”
Now, as purveyors of household implements, we have
long seen our opportunity to enlarge our business by
introducing a thoroughly efficient Washing and Mangling
Machine. Both these services must be combined in the
one article. This we have most perfectly and assuredly
accomplished. The demon of the washing day is not
scotched but killed.
We resolved to introduce nothing until absolutely certain
by observation, experiment, and test, that the implement
would be a success. There are hosts of Washing Machines.
The vast majority are childish fads, are injurious, or are
useless. We say and we prove that the Beale Patent
Washer will save in labour of washing in proportion as our
Sewing Machines do in sewing. And in a higher degree,
for the washing by hands is so much the more laborious.
The Beale Patent Washer may be described as follows ;
The vertical tub is very carefully made, with fluted sides.
It is stationary, only the water and the clothes being
agitated by an accurately shaped “dolly,” which is worked
by a fly-wheel. The clothes are simply dropped in, no
arrangement or packing being wanted. The special
reversing gear moves this dolly swiftly backwards and for-
wards, and a very small expenditure of strength suffices
to lash the water into a mass of foaming suds. In the
process the clothes are floated to and fro, up and down ;
currents and cross-currents of water are formed, which
meet, and are forced through and through the fabric,
carrying away every particle of dirt and stain. The linen,
being merely suspkxdri) in the water, is not rubbed and
scrubbed as in hand-washing. Neither has anything to
submit to the hand-wringing process, which insensibly
rips, tears, and wears the clothes. Thus the most delicate
fabrics cannot be torn by our system of washing. Every-
one has noticed that their clothes seem to be as much
worn by washing as by use. This is caused by the fierce
rubbing they get upon washing boards, or by the hands.
With the Beale Patent Washing Machines this friction is
done away with. Therefore, the clothes will last far longer
than by hand-washing, however careful. When the wash-
ing is done, The tub should be wiped out, so that it be
always sweet and clean. There is no false bottom, and
nothing to accumulate greasy sediments.
When you buy a Machine of any kind,
have a good one.
Beale & Company
482 Si 434 George Street,
SYDNEY.
We have erected new Show-rooms, Offices, and
Warehouses, at No. 482 and 484, G-eorge-street,
Sydney, opposite Central Markets, and near to
the Royal Arcade. These are the loftiest com-
mercial buildings in the city, and can be seen from
all parts of the city and adjacent suburbs. The
Showrooms are the largest and finest in the
Southern Hemisphere, for the due display of the
splendid Hapsburg Pianos, Haydn Organs, and
Beale Patent Sewing Machines.
All goods may be had upon easy time-payment,
or for cash less three shillings in the pound.
Photographs price-lists, and samples free by
post.
No matter where you live, we will supply you
Vvith a Piano, Organ, Harmonium, Sewing Machine
or Washing Machine, upon easy time-paymwnt.
Branches and Travellers throughout New South
Wales and Queensland.
Business Announcements,
0
\
\
HIGH CLASS
Bug'g’ies,
Phaetons,
Wag‘g‘ons,
and Harness.
WILLIAM FLEMING,
22 & 24 CLARENCE ST., STDNET.
See Signature in
Blue Ink across
the Label thus:—
*
#
TJSE
liebig COMPANY’S
EXTRACT OF MEAT
for Beef Tea, Soups and Entrees
AngloScandinaviaii
Gold Medal
Acknowledged
The Best
ITALIAN MARBLE QUARRIES.
Slabs, Tables, Blocks, and Monuments, Staffordshire
Encaustic Tileries.
FLOORING TILES, FROM 3s. PER YARD.
Sole Agents for Australasian Colonies,
G RON DONA & COMPANY, LIMITED,
64 King Street, Melbourne.
Imperial Hotel,
TOWNSVILLE.
-I:-
THOMAS WALLACE,
PROPRIETOR.
Business Announcements.
BOOK of MATURE and Illustrated
Matrimonial Quids.
A full and explicit ex-
planation of the struc-
ture and usee of the organs of life and generation in man
and woman, intended especially for the married, or those
intending to marry, and who conscientiously and honestly
desire to inform themselves upon the intent and nature
of marriage and its duties, to which is added A COMPLETE
MEDICAL TREATISE upon all diseases of the generative
organs, whether resulting from infection or sexual excesses
and abuse, with much other valuable and highly important
information, illustrated with more than fifty engravings,
by M. Lafayette Byrn, M.D. Price 3s. 6d., post 4s.
The Fruits of Philosophy or Private Companion for
Married People, post Is. 2d. Mrs. Besant’s Law of Popula-
tion, Is., post Is. 2d. Wonderful Song Book, extra large.
Is. 6d. Decameron Boccaccio, 2s. Aristotle, complete,
3s. 6d., post 4s. Maria Monk, Is. 6d., post Is. 9d. New
complete Fortune Teller, 2s.
“The Matrons Manual of Midwifery,” the book every
married woman needs; price 75., posted 7s. 6d.
“ Nigger Stump Speeches and Comic Pattern,” price 6d.
“The Male Generative Organs,” their use and abuse
with many illustrations and coloured plates; price 75.,
post 7s. fid.
The arts of Boxing, Swimming and Gymnastics made
easy, enabling any one to become an expert Boxer and
Athlete, illustrated with fifty engravings, price Is., post
free. Agent for London Reynolds, Referee, Dispatch,
Dublin Freeman, Glasgow Mail. Advanced, and Republican
literature on sale.
Six* Jt-toh>ert Bear,
Radical Book Stores,
16)4 PARK STREET, SYDNEY.
CO
oo
LaJ
EuCALYPTE. Oicsa.
Victory Ointments
THE THEE OF LIFE.
mike eSSS&tS-
The only pure Enealypte In the World.
AWARDED Gold Medal Adelaide Jubilee
Exhibition. First Prize Great Centennial
Exhibition, Sydney. The only known CURB for
Asthma, Bronchitis, Consumption, Pleurisy,
Colds, Coughs, and all affections of the Chest and
Lungs; also, for Gout, Rheumatism, Sciatica,
etc. Our VICTORY OINTMENT stands with-
out a rival for Bad Legs, Bad Breasts, Cancers,
Tumours, and skin diseases of all kinds. Also,
manufacturers of the Eucalypte Pills, Eucalypte
Hair Restorer, Eucalypte Soap, and our world-
famed Eucalypte Honey is the best preparation
before the public for young Children and aged
people. Also, makers of the Eucalypte Lozenges
for the Voice. Manufactory— Cootamundra.
Sydney Wholesale Depot—2sl Elizabeth Street
Posted to any part of the Colonies. Sold Every-
where. Beware or Imitations.
HUNGARIAN
NATURAL APERIENT WATE*
For Constipation, Mlgegtlai
Stomach & Liver Complaints T
Ul
Aii
OF ALL CHEMISTS IN AUSTRALASIA
The Natural Mineral Waters of
(STATE
fg
SPRINGS.)
SRANDfi-GRILLB.— For Affections of th#
Liver, Biliary Organs, &o.
OGLE3TINS. —For the Kidneys, Gravel, Goat
Rheumatism, Diabetes, &c.
fIOPITAL, —For Stomach Complaints.
HACTKRIYE. —An excellent Table Watuu
OF ALL CHEMISTS IN AUSTRALASIA.
A. BOWMAN’S
LONDON MADE
Porpoise Hide Boots
Are Reduced from 2-Os. to 21s.
249 PITT-ST., SYDNEY, Near Tattersall's.
Porpoise Hide Wears Twice as Long
as any other Leather.
They are noted all over London,
Birmingham and Liverpool.
London Faalxioiua,
AND
Fresh Goods Every Fortnight.
Trade Supplied Wholesale at a Great Advantaoe.


■Will be p-üblisheci Shortly,
“ A GOLDEN SHANTY:
>
Australian Tales and Sketches in Prose and Verse
By ‘Bulletin’ Writers. ”
A Selection from the brightest of the original literary matter which has made The BuniETtN world-famous. Price, Is. ;if posted, 3d. extra.
Public Companies.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA.
THE COMING COLONY!
Everyone should Invest a Few Pounds in Land
in
PERTH,
The CAPITAL CITY OF WESTERN AUSTRALIA.
Compared with other Australian Cities the Price
is Very Low.
The Coal, Gold and Tin Mines are attracting
much enterprise and capital to the Colony,
CITY BUILDING ALLOTMENTS,
From £1 per Foot.
BUILDING- SITES adjoining the CITY
From £lO Each.
Small Deposit. Easy. Terms. Discount for Cash.
Each Lot guaranteed good Building Land.
Land in Perth will increase greatly in value during
the next few years.
INQUIRY COSTS NOTHING.
Pamphlets, Marked Plans, and full information
posted to any address on application to ,
The Inlerci.om! Investment. So,, Limits!
86 Bathurst Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
' ' ' j
W. J. DOUGLAS, Manager, j
• —THE—
FEDERAL REVERSIONARY INVESTMENT
AND .. . . i
FINANCIAL COMPANY, LIMITED.
(Incorporated Under Companies' Act, IS7U ,
CAPITAL '• . i. 200,000.'
: a ;—, ' f.
Sydney Office; 301 PITT STREET
AGENCIES in London and throughout Australia.
Immediate advances granted. Rills discountevVdaily.
Communications from the country promptly attended to.
The following are the rates of interest al lowed pb Fixep
Deposits 3 years, 10 percent. ; 12'months, 9 per cent, j;
6 months, 8 per cent. ; 8 months, 7 per cent./ By 'ordpr
of the Board of Directors.
A. W. Miller, Manager
=CLYDE=
mm, era® and cslosimt ok
WORKS,
CLYDE, near GRANVILLE,
Few South Wales.
Lead and! Silver Ores,
ALSO,
G-old Concentrates,
Purchased in any quantity.
Miners and others are invited to send Small or
Large Parcels of Ore to the above Works, which,
on being assayed, Cash Returns will be at once
remitted.
Tariff of Charges forwarded on application to
the Secretary at the Works, Clyde.
The British and Sew Smith Wales Investment
and Financial t 0., Limited.
Incorporated under the Companies’ Act, 1874.
Capital, £260,000.
Sydney Chios : 246 PITT STREET.
1 JILLS DISCOUNTED and Immediate Advances granted
1) j>ai!y. Country communications promptly attended
to. The following Rates of Interest are allowed for Fixed
Deposits: —
3 Years 10 P er cent *
12 Months .... 9 per cent.
6 Months .... • ■ • • • 8 P« c 6ll *-
3 Months 7 per cent.
With a Guaranteed Bonus on Renewals of Twelve Months
and over.
By order of the Board.
J W. M'DONALD, Manager.
Business Announcements.
—THE—
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL
FIRE
Insurance Society.
Established
1872.
Bonuses
OF
20 per cent. Paid Annually
since 1873.
Head Office
—THE
Oldest Mutual Fire Office
in Australia.
Claims promptly and liberally
settled. Fifteen days’ grace
allowed for Renewal of Policies.
Lowest Current Rates charged.
lion. George Thornton, M.L.C.,
Chairman.
Head Office:
Corner Pitt Si King Streets,
SYDNEY.
Walter Church ... Manager.
r
qSERTs
c
RON
A
rn i
NTS
NM
"T
■■■-
CYES
era
Fin
a
§
- ■
ROBERTS & 0 O,
—W HOLESALE—
Ironmongers* Importers* Iron and Machinery Merchants*
HAY AND ENGINE STREETS SYDNEY,
Head Office: 85 Gracechurch Street, London, E.O.
IMPORTERS OF
Railway & Bridge Contractors’
Plumbers’
Squatters’
Requirements
IN
Great Variety.
IMPORTERS OF
Engineers’ and Blacksmiths’
Couchbuilders’
Mining
AGENTS FOR:
Lowe’s Platform and Counter W eighm s liachmes and W ei^hbudges.
yiIiSGUS yiiE fl^racs
LIMITED.
Capital ... ... *200,000.
Head Office :
21 Castlereagh St, Sydney,
With Bl anches and Agencies throughout the Colonies.
IKTew El-u.fflii3.ess:
188* TUcre were issued ll'.Mj I’olielcs.
1881> lip to 28tll October 48.838 >.
These figures show the wonderful progress of the
Company and the high esteem placed upon its
liberal dealings by the public.
CLAIMS PAID
Immediately on Proof of Death.
JAMES P. GARYAN, \
WM. ALEX. SMITH, I
Managing Director.
Secretary.
Bk idge Family Hotel,
Falls Bridge, Melbourne.
%— x
This magnificent Hotel, containing 50 Double
and Single Rooms, is splendidly furnished and
perfectly ventilated.
Hot and Cold Plunge and Shower Baths.
Electric Bells.
Telephone 1217.
. Terms Strictly Moderate.
Billiards , &c.
J. H. DURRANI’ Manager.
Late of the South Australian Club Hotel, Adelaide.
The AUSTRALIAN MERCANTILE LOAN and
GAURANTEE COMPANY, Limited.
Head Office
Sydney: Corner of Market & York Streets.
Melbourne Branch: 283 Collins-street East.
Brisbane Branch: Corner Edward and Elizabeth Street*.
Newcastle Branch: 37 Hunter Street.
The Company grant immediate advances upon Deeds of
Land Bills of Lading, Merchandise, Storage and Bond
Certificates, and all classes of mercantile and other approved
securities, for fixed terms or repayable by instalments.
A. MILLER, Acting-Manager.
Medical.
PTJLVERMACHER’S WORLD-
FAMED GALVANIC BELTS
FOR THE CURE OF
Nervous Exhaustion and Debility, Sciatica,
Lumbago, Rheumatism, &c.,
HAVE received Testimonials from Three
Physicians to Her Majesty the Queen and
the Leading Physicians of many London Hospi-
tals, including over Forty Members of the Royal
College of Physicians of London.
For full Price-list and particulars, see new pam-
phlet “Galvanism: Nature’s Chief Restorer of
Impaired Vital Energy.” Pamphlets Free.
Sole Agents for N.S.W.,
FROST <Sc SHIPHAM
ELECTRICIANS,
474 & 587 George Street, Sydney.
Sole Agents for Victoria;
ALLISON BROS., 477 Collins-steebt West, Melbourne.
Business Announcements.
—AUSTRALIAN—
Roller Slour and Grain Stored,
GRANVILLE, N.S.AV.
Sydney Office : - 173 CLAREN CE STREET
(near King Street).
Brunton’s Patent Roller Flour
—AWARDED —
The Highest Order of Merit at every Competition,
AND
“Special Recommendation” of the Jurors of the
Melbourne International Centennial Exhibition,
1888-89.
UMBRELLAS
HE-CO¥EREO
CTUDY ECONOMY
k and
Have your Umbrella Frames
Re-Covered, and your
Parasols Re-Lined and made
Equal to New, at,
J. SULLIVAN’S,
541 George Street,
Brickfield- Hill, Sydney,
between
Liverpool & Bathurst Sts.,
Parasols made to match Cos-
tumes. Repairs neatly done.
THE GEOEGE HOTEL
(opposite Railway Station, near Baths),
St. Kilda, Victoria.
First-class Family & Commercial Hotel.
tST For particulars, apply to
F. WIMFOLE,
PROPRIETOR.
—THE—
Art Furnishing Warehouse.
BEARD, WATSON & CO.,
361 George Street, SYDNEY,
Direct attention to their Magnificent Stock of
Carpets, Floorcloths, Linoleums,
And other Floor Coverings, in the
NEWEST DESIGNS A ARTISTIC COLOURINGS.
Art Decorations, Upholstery Work and
Window Draping a Speciality.
All Orders executed ly a Staff of Experienced
Workmen, and Special Attention given to the can ty-
ing out of Customers’ wishes with punctuality and
promptitude.
Sydney Canister Works,
COLLINS STREET, SURRY HILLS,
OFF CROWN STREET.
Manufacturers of allk’ndsof iinsfor Confectioneisi
Tea Merchants, Biscuit Makers, &c., also all kinds
of Tins, round and square, for Pepper, Spice and
Baking Powder, made by improved machinery
A Trial Solicited.
CITY & COUNTY
Investment, Land and Building
X-r i sirs. it; e cJ.. _
Authorised Capital, £lOO,OOO Reserves and Uncalled Capitol, £*7,000.
KvrHS for Deposits ;12 months, 7 per cent.: 0 months per cent.; at call, 5 per cent.
lU * 101 Bonus to 12 months' Depositors.
Directors: J. Garrard. M.l>, Hon. J. 11. Young. M.P., .1. P. Walker, J.P., John C Hamilton.
J. D. Ward, Manager, 327 Pitt-street, Sydney.
f
32V IPIT T STREET. SYDNEY.


The Bulletin
Vol. 11-No. 520.
SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 1, 1890.
Pr-ioe, 6d.
gf
%
so*
V
V?
L
O
L
THE N.S.W. PARTY-PROCESSIONS-LAW REPEAL BILL.
PARKES: “THAT’S RIGHT, BOYS, THE GENERAL ELECTION IS COMING ALONG."


The Bulletin
The National Australian Hewspapor.
“Australia for tub Australians.
Proprietors : BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO.,
Limited.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 24 Pitt-street Sydney, New South Wales.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(payable in advance, only).
Per Annum ... ... ... ... £lO 0
Half-yearly 0 II 6
Quarterly ... ... ... ... ... 0 G 6
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Macleod, Managing Director.
Literary Communications to be addressed to J. F.
Archibald.
The Editor will carefully read and acknowledge in tne
I Correspondence ” column all contributions submilted —
whether in the form of Political, Social, or other Articles,
Verse, Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in
length, or say 3000 words, are specially acceptable),
Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper-Clippings. All
:ommunications will be regarded as strictly confidential.
“ The Bulletin” will return all unavailable MSS. when
the address is specified and stamps are. enclosed. But we
desire those sending MSS. to distinctly understand that
we are not responsible for the preservation or transmission
of such MSS.
NOTICE.
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty Shillings
Uerling—which you may pay by Post Office Order, One
Pound Note, or Stamps of any Australian colony—you
:an have The Bulletin posted regularly to you every week
for a year.
This offer is not open to residents of Sydney. In that
city The Bulletin is not delivered by mail, but is entirely
in the hands of our earners, with whom ive do not uish
to interfere.
&e
SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 1, 1890.
His Second Instalment.
In maternal solicitude for the best interests
of Society, and to the joy of paragraphists,
Justice has been once more making the hair
and skin fly. She has again rolled up her
sleeves and had it out on good old British
lines with a half-demented criminal. Here
are some details of how the rights of Society
are vindicated and lessons of virtue and
purity taught. We take them from the Mel-
bourne DaiLY Telegraph, a paper which,
among other things, dabbles in Christianity—
and is edited by a Wesleyan clergyman who
runs a ladies’ school:—
In the flagellating-room at Pent,ridge the other day a
man well up in years, whose hair was grey, named John
Hales, was submitted to the lash. Hales was con-
victed of a diabolical offence at Geelong', sentence of
death being recorded against him ; but this was sub-
sequently commuted [the italics are The Bulletin’s]
by the Executive to fifteen years’ imprisonment, with
three floggings of 15 lashes each, the first of which
prisoner received on October 14 last, and, judging from
the marks on the convict’s back, the punishment on that
occasion was administered in such a manner that he will
remember it for life. Scars scarcely well healed were to
be seen, and upon those-old wounds he had to receive his
second punishment. Hales, on entering the flagellating
room, was very pale and trembling violently. He became
quite confused when told to strip for punishment and
when being triced up complained that he was being
strapped too tightly. This was soon rectified, and Jones’
with “No. 1 cat,” commenced operations. During the
whole of the punishment it was evident, from the
prisoner’s breathing, that he felt the lash severely, and at
times his fortitude gave way and he cried out, “Oh!
God, have mercy!” On being released his back was a
terrible sight, blood oozing from the excoriations. A
cold, wet cloth was placed on his back and he was re-
moved to his cell to ponder over the infamous offence
which had reduced him to such a state of degradation.
* * *
Exactly. The blind goddess, who at times
can look remarkably like a blind she-devil,
wiped the red corpuscles and particles of
flesh off herself, and, with a reassuring smile
to the public, withdrew to disentangle the
thongs for the third lesson while the ad-
monished greyhead was wet-towelled and
led away to do some pondering on “ the in-
famous offence which had reduced him to
such a state of degradation.” This is am-
biguous, though. It might mean the culprit’s
own offence or the Law’s, between which we
perceive no difference of infamy. The par-
ticular offence for which this grey old man
was adjudged to be worthy of inhuman
and brutal torture was of a class which
has no allurement for minds unwarped by
disease.- The impulse to satisfy natural
desires, such as those for food, clothing,
shelter, any form of wealth, or the gratifica-
tion of passions common to us all, is natural,
and only becomes objectionable when in-
dulged in to the injury of ourselves or of
others. The garotter who secures a purse
by strangulation is guilty of improper
acquirement, not of unnatural tastes, for it
is reasonably blameless among the sons of
men to desire money. And but for one
thing, the terror of the lash might be
effective to deter garotters, or other such
criminals. That one thing is the immunity
from detection which such transgressors
count upon. If before the commission of a
crime which was nob the outcome of sudden
impulse and instant opportunity, the intend-
ing eyil-doer knew that as surely as that he
breathed and lived it would be sheeted
home to him, the certainty of retribution by
mutilation would very probably 'restrain
him. For in his perverted way this kind of
criminal acts with reason and calculation,
and by measurement of chances as well as
by weighing of consequences. In judging
him we can only see a man who, with
method and caution, seeks to gratify natural
desires in an immoral way, but who in every
attribute save that of morality is as we all
are. Ihe difference between him and society
in this respect is not altogether of his own
making. The laws of society have strewn
broken glass over the path of rectitude, and
he who seeks to walk along it has a hard
time if his feet are not plated with gold.
* ■* #
Between normal and abnormal appetites
and propensities there is a distinction which,
within certain limits, the law is not slow to
recognise. The man who indulges in actions
out of consonance with the accepted standard
of mental soundness is generally deemed—if
such actions are not hurtful to others—to be
in some measure irresponsible, and is dealt
with accordingly. And we cannot believe
that anything short of a diseased brain could
lead men to offend in the direction of some
of the crimes that in a poor man are
punished with the lash, and in a rich one
with the necessity of withdrawing from his
club or even his country. The very nature
of such crimes points that way. In sen-
tencing an offender of this kind connected
with the Dublin Castle abominations of some
years ago, the presiding Judge said he had
been guilty of practices which, instead of
having anything enticing in them to sane
human beings, were at every point repulsive
and inexplicable—practices which would
make the blood of the worst libertine run
cold to think of, and which the average man
of healthy organisation would die rather
than lend himself to. The prec'se line be-
tween sanity and mania is hard to deter-
mine, perhaps, but it clearly separates
natural impulses from morbid cravings.
* * *
But a law that lags far behind our era—
that, in fact, yet lags in the days of Lagdora—
sees nothing for it but purification by
brutalism. An eye for an eye, a tooth or
two for a tooth, a crime for a crime ! For
the vitiated brain-cell the prison-cell ; for
the lapse into bestiality or savagery an ap-
plication of physical torture partaking of the
nature of both. The body is tickled with
a cat so that the mind may laugh with a
harvest of contrition and moral resolve !
Oldman Hales, with' the scars of his first
sufferings yet fresh upon him, and enveloped
by the pall of what to one of his years is a
death-sentence, led up stupefied with fear
and horror to the triangle for further im-
pressment With the law’s majesty, is surely a
pitiable spectaclg. To him the chance of
further public “Wrong-doing is cut off by
gaol walls. The savages of the Victorian
Parliament, Courts and Executive might
as well have carried out the sentence of
death, after giving the culprit his three
floggings. The principle would have been
just the same, and if the last scourging
had been performed on the scaffold the im-
pression left upon the public mind would
have been deeper. Men have been lashed
into eternity before now—and maybe into
Hell. Judge Therey, than whom no one
had fuller chances of observation, held that
this hideous method of reform infallibly
brutalised and hardened the man that it
did not crush utterly or kill. Therry
lived in the days of old Botany Bay when
the swish of the cat and the sobs and
curses of the scourged were heard on every
side. It cannot be claimed that the lash
has not had sufficient trial. Writing of
some convict witnesses on whom the thongs
had not been spared and who, consequently,
should have been unspoiled, he says “ There
was not one who had not, from'time to time,
undergone the punishment of 1000 lashes
each and upwards. They were as little re-
claimable by the lash as if so many drops of
water had been poured upon their backs.
They looked less like human beings than the
shadows of gnomes. . . . What man
ever was or ever could be reclaimed under
such a system as this 1 ” And again : “The
light that shines within in moments of
serious thought may be extinguished ; it has
been so. Seldom does a man regain a true
sentiment of self-respect after he has under-
gone the frequent castigation of the cat. . .
It has been as instrumental as crime itself
in multiplying victims for the scaffold.” And
yet again : “ When the lash had done its
worst, the scaffold was called in aid.”
* # *
The old blind barbarism of the lex talionis
idea, the savagery of retaliation in kind, is
gradually being purged from the codes of
civilisation. There has been no increase of
the numerous offences for which men and
women were flogged in England since that
form of moral suasion was almost blotted
from the statute-book. The men of the
English Army and Navy have not visibly
degenerated because they now carry backs
unlacerated by the flogger. In France there
was more of every manner of crime when
its suppression was attempted by putting
iron rings -round a man’s legs and driving
wooden wedges between them and his flesh
in order to impart a general tautness to the
whole concern than since the people arose
in their fury, and, after having tried the
“boot” and “scavenger’s daughter” on
the nobility, finally pitched the lot into the
Seine. That act was but an expression, in
a large and communal way, of the principle,
always at work individually, that excess be-
gets opposite excess. The austerity of the
Puritan time resulted froAi the unbridled
licentiousness of the Cavalier period ; the'
. hatred s of Ireland against England, now
■gradually dying out in the prospect of ap-
proaching justice, is but reprisal provoked
by the'sense of deep injury. History is
chiefly made up of instances of the working
of this impulse in a national sense; the
records of the gaol and the gibbet are elo-
quent of its operation between individuals.
The wronged seek revenge in wrong; the
bruised and beaten have in them awakened
the passion and bitterness of resentment ;
the vigorous spirit under the application of
torture becomes a devil while the frail one
is reduced from humanity and its possibilities
to cowering animalism. Flogging, at its
best, is more than an eye for an eye.
The outlawry of criminal association—the
“Nevermore” which Society writes against
the name of the whipped convict—is in
itself more than that. It is a sentence to
the depths of life while life lasts.
* * #
The lash is no weapon for the hands of
modern mankind. Those who have given
most consideration to the philosophy of
punishment agree that restraint is not to be
inculcated by vindictiveness or savagery,
and that any law which seeks to repress
force by force is illogical and reactionary.
Crime of any kind is now largely seen to
be but a growth of influences and conditions,
the long continuance of which may make a
tendency to it hereditary, as it may make a
tendency towards politics, or chest-disease,
or religion, or brandy hereditary. And it
might be that the lash could as reasonably
be applied to the starving man who,
unable to obtain food honestly and unable
longer to withstand the pangs of hunger,
helps himself from what belongs to others,
as to- punish most of those who offend
against the laws. Perhaps flogging could
be as justly awarded for nervous de-
bility or obesity, or pulmonary consump-
tion as for misdeeds that are the fruit of
some peculiar and horrible mental bias, and
probably it would be as good medicine in the
one case as in the other. The way to reach
reform is by removing the causes which ob-
struct the way, not by fighting their neces-
sary effects. The iron mechanism which
sets the hand of every man against every
other ; that annuls charity and makes' the
earth a place of haste and avarice and of
desperate pushing aside and trampling down
goes on faster and faster. The process that
gives one without effort of his own, or any
necessity for the cultivation of virtue, the
pQwer to satiate every natural desire before
he reaches manhood, and acquire others not
natural, while it denies to another the fruit of
all the virtues he can exercise, may be respon-
sible for the perversion of both men. In some
degree, at least, it certainly is so, and unless
this mechanism has the brake put on, the
cat may fall and the groans and curses arise
without any gain. Unless that is done the
periodical skinning of John Hales, who
(though undergoing a sentence of imprison-
ment which exceeds the term of his actuarial
expectancy of life) is at present being fixed
up with Friar’s balsam for the wrath to
come, will be as vain as his reflections on the
enormity of himself and the justice of the
Law. Unless that is done we may have the
hangman and public scourger at work con-
tinually in vain.
* # #
“ Bring out the cat ! ” cries the voice oi
mediaeval butchery speaking per medium of
another ex-clergyman, editor of the Mel-
bourne Standard :
It is the best and most effective moral regenerator of
the age when applied to particular phases of social de-
velopment So far from humanity being out-
raged, its ears should be charmed by every yell that tells
that the cruel coward is feeling his deserts. Bring out
the cab I
The red hot pincers and the anto-da-fe were
also counted the best moral regenerators of
the age, but the age is past. There may be
more cruel cowards than they who are
usually flayed, and if scourging were justi-
fiable it might be that no more deserving
case could be found than that of an ex-
minister of Christ’s gospel, who, in the
hope of encouraging the practice of torture,
publicly proclaims a hankering for yells.
The Natives’ Conference.
Result: Blather.
A number of delegates from the Australian
Natives’ Associations of the various colonies have
been meeting together in the Mayor’s room, at
Melbourne Towii Hall, for the purpose of firing
off drivelling inanities, here and there relieved by
a dreary platitude, at the land of their birth. The
alleged mission of these 26 delegates was to decide
that the time has now arrived for Federation, and
they toasted the old chestnut to cinders with the
very evident idea that they had laid hold of a
sparkling novelty. Each man present was a
ludicrous reminder of the bush editor who took up
his pen to address a solemn warning to the Emperor
of Russia. Each in turn took the floor feeling
that he was something other than a brazen blather-
skite assisting in a brainless farce.
# # *
Newspaper reports convey but a slight notion of
the “ Australian Natives’ ” Conference, inasmuch
as the recording journalists taxed their ingenuity
to make the best of a miserable job. To
thoroughly understand how unqualified were these
26 delegates to speak for Australia upon a
national subject—how incompetent to speak
rationally upon any subject at all one
had to catch the drivel as it dripped
from 26 pairs of lips in the Mayor’s sanctum,
to study the gathering of prematurely-bald heads,
and to the self-satisfied smirk with whicii
each individual patriot contemplated his own
greatness. After a careful survey of the scene
any non-member of an A. N. A. could understand
why natives, as a body, are so ready to disclaim
Connection or sympathy with a'sociations that
have no rafscm d'etre, save in enabling self-seeking
no bodies to pose in print. Young Australia may
congratulate itself upon the fact that it has, gener-
ally speaking, steered clear of the combinations of
benefit society and skite which produced last
weeks tinpot political “ conference/’ with a
K.C.M.G. in the chair.
* * *
Even supposing that the various A.N.A.’a
were all founded upon one comprehensible
basis, were justly so entitled, and could, in
such a ease, possibly possess any more vital-
ity than would a society which included
every Dutchman born in Holland : — how
then could they show reason for sending ambassa-
dors to spread themselves around a Mayor’s room
and spend a week in cackling over the results of
a scheme which has yet to be hatched by other
people ? And such childish cackling as it was!
On the fourth day of this blessed Conference one
of the IN.S.W. delegates, Dowel, M.L.A., pro-
posed a resolution—“ That the Federal Legisla-
ture should bo empowered to deal with national
matters, including General Defences; Naturalisa-
tion, Federal Revenue, &c., &c.” What super-
fluous inspirations for Dowel to throw off in his
heaviest oratorical style! He might, with equal
wisdom, have moved that the Federal Legislature
be empowered to blow its nose when necessary.
IN ot one of the whole 26 drivellers had sense enough
to suggest that the “whitest” men procurable
should be elected to the said Legislature and left
to do their level best for the country. After which
the Conference might have ordered in whisky and
gracefully dissolved.
* # *
The “Natives” made a characteristic com-
mencement by electing Beat, K.C.M.G., as
chairman. Beat is of that class of mankind who
are commonly described as giving “weight” to
frothy gatherings. At a passing glance Sir John
Bray might be mistaken for Feank Lincoln, but
on closer inspection he strikes one as a g’entleman
designed by Peovidence never to make a joke, or
see one. For the _ matter of that the whole Con-
couldn’t raise a grain of humour. It were
impossible for any delegate to possess a sense of
the ridiculous and be able to maintain decorum at
such a show. A casual visitor was certain to find
Ninian Melville, M.L.A., talking at any hour
of the morning or afternoon. That funereal per-
sonage set the discussion rolling by announcing
that himself and the other fellows were about to
leave a memorial mark upon the pages of history.
Then Ninian went on to instance Seaele and the
Soudan goat as unanswerable arguments in favour
of Federation, and he made an indelible mark
upon the first page of Australia’s history by ex-
pressing a desire to shed his last drop of blood
and spend his last shilling to defend the land that
gave him birth. But what this patriot said at one
time or another would fill a large book. His
points were profoundly idiotic, nevertheless he
stuck to his points better than some of the others.
His sense of responsibility was magnificent, and
when, at short intervals, he asked the Chairman
whether the Conference could allow something
“to go forth to the world,” it was pathetic to ob-
serve how the other twenty-five Makers of History
Contracted their narrow brows and breathed hard.
* * *
Dowel, M.L.A., was another incessant orator.
His speeches mainly consisted of the word
“conference,” and he loved to remind the Con-
ference that the Conference was the Confer-
ence, so he would not occupy the time of the
Conference by taking up too much of the Confer-
ence’s time. Then he would sit down with his
back to Ninian and stroke the head of a small
aboriginal boy, whom he had brought to enjoy the
Conference. Dowel droned out his empty plati-
tudes with the solemnity of a Gladstone. He
was another man of “weight.” Most of the
weight—all of it, in fact—appeared to be contri-
buted by delegates from New South Wales and
South Australia, the majority of the others being
younger men who have founded their claims to
political distinction on an unnatural scarcity of
hair upon the top of ridiculously round heads.
Peacock, a Victorian native M.L.A., is, how-
ever, quite too young to be bald as yet, and it
was rather a staggerer to hear this slender simple-
ton state that seven years ago he had predicted
the birth of the present Conference, which was
about to “educate the public up to the point,”
&c., &c. Words cannot paint Peacock’s mouth,
and his parliamentary laugh beggars all description.
Looking at that eloquent abyss, shuddering at the
cachinnation issuing thence, one feels that Aus-
tralian Nativedom, which has hoisted Peacock
from obscurity, will have to answer for him on the
Awful Day.
* # *
One melancholy proof of the Conference’s men-
tal weakness was its indecent haste to buy the
Hkvenin’ ’Eeald. The delegates who had spoken
before luncheon would thereafter count the
minutes as they flew before the ’Eeald’s first
edition came forth. In due course they would
sneak out of the Conference, and presently return
with a copy of their chosen horgan piping hot
from the press. Their desire for Federation was
as nothing compared with the yearning to get a
“ notice.” Those, who had not been speaking
bought ’Eralds likewise, and as these less for-
tunate Natives saw their rivals’ names in print
they smiled a significant grin and endeavoured to
wait patiently for the morrow.
Parkes and Federalism.
If the gods were to invest the divine idea of
another Galatea with “a shrine of crystal flesh,”
and send that piece of fetching simplicity into
this world of puzzles and humanity, the lady
would at first find it difficult to understand how it
is that some statesmen cut so big a figure among
Tellurians. Miss Galatea would, however, soon
be taught that though the world was all novelties,
there was really nothing new under the sun. A
statesman is a person who has the luck to find,
and the impudence to father, the unclaimed dis-
coveries of humbler, and usually greater, men.
Opportunity is the rarest and best accident of life,
and it, more than his own merits, makes the man.
We might bring in evidence New South Wales
our own G.0.M., the Moloch of local politics,
and would-be dictator of intercolonial relations
Milton says of the Prime Minister of his hero,
that —
His trust was with the Eternal to be deem’d
Equal in strength, and rather than be less
Cared not to be at all.
Our only Parkks shows the mould of his immortal
and “ damned ” archetype, for an altitude that is
not greatest has no fascinations for him, and
rather than play second fiddle he cares not tc
fiddle at all.


This disposition is seen in the relation of Sir
Henry Parkes to the question of. the hour.
Rumour credits Premier Parke, s with having con-
ceived a perfect Federal Constitution, which he
will offer for acceptance to the delegates and
which will serye for all time as the monument of
his memory. The occasion is ripe for capping a
reputation, and Sir Henry is determined not to
let it slip. Under his leadership the men who are
to meet in conference in February will arrange
the foundations of an abiding federation, and
history will know them as its pioneers, Who, says
the poet,
Shall go about
To cozen fortune and be honourable
the stamp of merit ! Let none presume
To wear- an undeserved dignity.
We will suggest a gloss upon this passage and its
■exhortation. The political busybodies who, taking
<■ the Cue from senile vanity, are so anxious to
bring about colonial Federation, forget either
through ignorance or by design that a complete
■scheme for the Federation of the colonies was
' suggested over 30 years ago. As far back as
1853 the committee appointed to draft a constitu-
tion for New South Wales recommended the for-
mation of a Federal Council, with power to deal
with intercolonial tariffs, railways passing through
■ two colonies, the coasting trade, beacons and
lighthouses, postage, and other matters of im-
portance and general interest. But for in-
tercolonial jealousies, which were as active
then as now, the committee would have ad-
- vised the incorporation in the Constitution
Act of provisions for a Federal Council. In
(October, 1856, the Hon. Deas Thomson advocated
in the Legislative Council of N.S. Wales the for-
mation of a Federal Council, with powers, in
addition to those already mentioned, of dealing
with the tariff, the land systems, and railway
gauges. Again, in March, 1857, the General
Association of the Australian Colonies, at a meet-
ing held in London, with Mr. W. C. Wentworth
in the cjiair, drew up a memorial on this question
'to the Imperial authorities. This memorial asked
for the passage by the Imperial Parliament of an
Act, of which a draft was supplied, enabling the
interested colonies to constitute a Federal Council.
Clause 2 of the suggested Act provided that
“ such Federal Council shall have full power and
-. authority to make laws for such Federal' colonies
on the following subjects—viz., tariffs, lighthouses,
gauges of connecting railways, navigation of con-
necting rivers, telegraphs communicating with any
two or more colonies, postage between such colonies,
the upset or minimum price of land, management
of the goldfields, a common coinage, weights and
measures, general defence, a Court of Appeal,
penal settlements; and upon any subject which
shall lawfully be submitted to such Federal
Assembly by an address from the Legislatures of
the said Federal colonies having an interest in the
question so submitted.” In the same year com-
mittees appointed by the Parliaments of Victoria
and South Australia recommended that a confer-
ence, consisting of three delegates from each
■eolony, should be held to draft a Federal Bill. We
might trace the more recent developments of the
Federation agitation, but enough has been, said
to warn a credulous public against, placing
the honours of the dead to the credit of
the living. The brazen impudence and cool
conceit of some gentlemen, who have acquired a
factitious importance from the accidents of poli-
tics, are equal to anything—even to applying the
example of conduct in material matters to cpn-
’ cerns of reputation, by living upon the borrowed
honours of worthier, but less fortunate, men.
** 1 #
The motives of those who advocate complete
colonial federation are various. Some federalists
honestly believe in the ripeness of our conditions
for federation, and wi Ur them we have no quarrel,
in national evolution the stage of federation must
come, but it is"our duty to see that its advent is
not precipitated- by politicians whose first and last
care is personal notoriety. There are others who take
up the cry for federation as they would any other
that touches the diseased sensibilities of vulgar
minds. The shing phrases of politics are very
potent, and the political faith of thousands is the
mere glamour of the catchword. Others again,
such as the New South Wales Premier, regard the
proposed Federal Un on as but a step towards
an Imperial Alliance or Federation. “The
federation of a group of contiguous colonies,”
says the St. James’ Gazette, “is a good
thing in itself, and a better thing- if it offers
some prospect of leading to the eventual federa-
tion of the Empire.” The ambition of Sir
Henry Parkes is well known to be in the direc-
tion of this Imperial Alliance, and the vitality
of p Jitical toadyism justifies the assumption that
the bent of meaner capao ties is in the same line.
But whatever may be. said, of politicians, the
people will be true to the spirit of the
future. Dreams and schemes of impossible
Federations may suit colonists who find the sphere
of local politics too circumscribed, or English
Tories desirous of having some shadowy and
harmless notions to talk about, and thus divert
popular energies from social reforms, but here
they are simply dreams and nothing more. Our
futu'-e is indicated by the saying of TuSgot that
“ colonies, like fruit, drop off the parent stem
when ripe. ”
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Justice against Time.
Thu Rockhampton Bulletin has rigorously pro-
tested against the alleged undue celerity of Judge
Miller in disposing of the business of the Cen-
tral District Court. “It was apparent from the
outset,” says the journal in question
*' That he intended to attempt to rush the business
through in one day in ord r to admit of the Crown Pro-
secutor leaving for the S mth next morning. From the
inomen t the court opened Judge Miller,” the article con-
tinues, “ showed indecent haste to get it closed again,”
and goes on to point out out that the Court sat for 30
hours, the only interruption being for meals. Three
jurors were engaged hearing the cases during the whole of
the 36 hours, and for the latter portion of the time were fre-
quently asleep. The article concludes: —“From midnight
till 2 a.m. the scene was deplorable, and was a perfect
ln®ckery of justice.”
If this be so it is but a Northern application of
Botany Bay methods. What happened in Sydney
when the unfortunate Mount Rennie boys were
on what was called their “trial” has happened
there, if our contemporary speaks truth. Evil
communications corrupt good morals, and had
examples may become precedents. New South
Wales furnished the spectacle of 11 youths in-
dicted for a capital offence who were foVced to
throw for their lives against loaded dice. They
Were, without exception, personally incapable of
in king any effective defence or understanding
the technicalities in which Law is so fond of en-
Ve oping the administration of Justice : they
Were mostly i f a class which evoked distrust and
alienated sympathy; and the public mind was
stirred to one of its periodical tits of implacable
retribution by iho exaggerated story of a shocking
pcourrence told minutely and with sprinkling of
literary relish and condiment by a press which
promised further luxury of obscene and thril-
ling recital in the fifteenth edition. The city
and tlie country arose as one man almost,
and howled for blood. In all that was hurriedly
written and swallowed on sight by the populace,
there was mostly a distinct assumption of the
guilt of the accused. Under such circumstances
Justice, which is currently supposed to believe a
prisoner innocent until qualified and special
inquiry has proven him otherwise, should have
been particular in securing an exhaustive and
careful examination. Instead of this the exami-
nation was an exhausting one. Hour after hour
without respite the doomed men stood there while
an iron judge sat, presumedly giving close atten-
tion to fagged and dubious witnesses, or listening
to worn-out barristers addressing the enfeebled
arguments of sleeplessness to dazed and heavy
jurymen, with the result of a rich harvest of hang-
ing. Although nothing of the same kind so gross
and momentous has occurred in New South Wales
for the last few months, complaint has again and
again been made of the rushing through of busi-
ness by Judges on circuit in order to suit their own
pre-arranged plans. We know one Judge who
has earned a reputation for polishing off cases in
time, to catch the next coach or train that should
procure his instant dismissal from any depart-
ment that seeks to dispense justice. We have
seen him relentlessly prolong the proceedings*in
up-country courts until everything became a blurred
and distorted vision to everybody concerned.
We have seen the tired horse-thief droop gradually
forward until his peaceful head hung far over
the edge of the dock and impending suffocation
aroused him. Wp have seen a fainting Crown
Prosecutor, sustained by much brandy, droning in-
coherence to a jury of slumbering bucolics while the
counsel for the defence “ breathed like one that had
a weary dream,” and the police snored in Cork
and Dublin accents, and the Press had gone out
in despair and got speechlessly drunk. One need
not go to Queensland in quest of the farcical in
law. It is time that someone having official
authority suggested in a friendly way to judges
in general that there is a growing opinion that
they are appointed less for their own convenience
than for that of the State, and that it is of less
public consequence that they should miss guzzling
with the Governor and be a few hours longer in
doing their work than that men should be wrong-
fuHy imprisoned, or acquitted, or, perhaps, legally
murdered.
♦
Newspaper Heroes.
News that the London County Council have
squelched a proposal to present Explorer Stanley
with an address of welcome may possibly cause
the Anglo-Saxon newspaper-reading community
to make enquiries regarding the career of that
wandering Welshman, with a view to discovering
where the usefulness of his alleged heroism comes
in. Not one in the ten thousand twaddlers who
point to Stanley as an instance of what indomi-
table energy will accomplish has the slightest
notion of what he has accomplished, or any ideas
about the man’s actuating motives. Sufficient for
such irresp nsible enthusiasts that Stanley is
extensively advertised by cable from “our own
correspondent,” who makes a point of sending
over the glad tidings every time he gleans (from
some London publication) that the glorified indi-
vidual has, together with his inevitable party,
arrived at, or left, some place that nobody ever
heard of before. “ Our own correspondent ”
doesn’t attempt to explain how the world
is benefited by Stanley’s goings or comings,
the editor can’t throw any light upoft the
subject with a footnote, and the leader-
writer who commences by mentioning that
STANLEY is safe !’ is miserably incapable of
further explaining why he should trouble to make
the announcement. The safety of Stanley is not
a matter of burning interest to anybody save him-
self and the niggers of the Dark Continent. They
—poor wretches ! —associate the intrepid explorer
with an increased rate of death from violence,
and must curse the day when he first came fooling
around on the humorous pretence of finding good
old Doctor Livingstone. The fiction that it was
Stanley who found Livingstone has long since
toned down into the fact that it was the Doctor
who stumbled across the other fellow—and didn’t
feel particularly glad to see him. Yet that fiction
was the foundation-stone upon which Stanley’s
newspaper and “ society ” celebrity has been built
up. It established him in business as an African
explorer, whose subsequent explorations have
been always of—as John Burns declared the
other day—a buccaneering character. When
there was nobody to “find,” Stanley would
himself get lost _so that another expedi-
tion might find him, but in a general way
the restless adventurer figures as seeker, with a
small army at his back. His very latest exploit
was the “ rescue ” of Emin Pasha, a level-headed
German, as able and content to take good care of
himself as Dr. Livingstone was in the old days.
Emin Pasha’s mission in Africa was vaguely un-
derstood (by the few people who ever attempted
to understand anything about it) to be conducted
on philanthropic lines. It is now alleged, how-
ever, that he went there for ivory, and that Stan-
ley’s anxiety to “ rescue ” the German gentleman
sprang from an earnest desire to share his ele-
phants’ tusks. How much truth there may be in
this story it is difficult to say. Bathed as we
are in an atmosphere of commercial robbery an
ivory swindle perpetrated in Africa is not worth
worrying about. But this public denunciation of
Stanley as a fraud, coming from a shrewd, honest
man like John Burns, will provoke a spirit of
enquiry among the great multitude who have
hitherto believed “ the discovery of Livingstone ”
to be, in some mysterious way or other, a blessing
to.humanity. They will want to know what good
Stanley has ever done, and whether he hasn’t
accomplished a vast amount of evil by persistently
“ potting ”at the African tribes. And they will
•discover that hero Stanley is almost as great a
bubble as cranky Gordon, to whom a statue has
been erected by the Southern Imperial Federa-
tionists, and who not only killed heathen him-
self, but devoted his life to, teaching them to kill
one another and love the Lord.
Free Pass Banquets in Victoria.
With profound regret The Bulletin announces
that one of the most promising of Victorian indus-
tries has been crippled by the sudden withdrawal
of a Government bonus. The industry in question
was of direct benefit to country districts, a great
incentive to expressions of “loyalty,” an un-
doubted .assistance to the liquor traffic, and a
sourceof innocent pleasure to everybody concerned.
We refer to the manufacture of complimentary
banquets to Ministers of the Crown, which must
henceforth be carried on without State aid. Ad-
mirers of the Victorian Coalition Government will
kindly l accept this intimation. Until a few
dajfs back it was not generally known among
the common or Cabbage Garden taxpayers that
this particular branch of banquet-making re-
ceived any assistance from the Exchequer.
They understood clearly enough that the Goverh
ment, collectively and officially, victualled free;
also that Her Majesty’s advisers travelled “for
nix,” whether by rail ashore or by the “Lady
Loch ” afloat. But they were not aware that
individual members of the Ministry could sub-
sidise the production of unofficial banquets to
themselves by special arrangement with the State
Railways Department. Owing to an unaccount-
able “ bungle,” however, the public have just dis-
covered how little they know about many simple
means of working the State oracle. A Mr. Burkk,
as it appears, was recently empowered to offer
free railway passes to all Victorian farmers who
felt disposed to take a ticket for the complimen-
tary banquet arranged by a “committee” in
honour of Mr. J. L. Dow, Minister for Agricul-
ture. Farmers (or anybody, in fact) were
invited to travel “on the never” from
the remotest corners of the colony to Mel-
bourne and back again, provided they would
pay the modest price of admission to this Dow
dinner. Mr. Burkk —in his capacity of honorary
secretary to the “movement”—scattered a cir-
cular in which this special inducement to farmers
was duly set forth. The bucolic mind immediately
perceived how nice it would be to “ recognise Mr.
Dow’s services ” on these terms, and the aforesaid
circular was received at various places with “ much
laughter.” Tickets for the banquet were in great
request when, for some mysterious reason, Mr.
Railway Commissioner Speight revoked the free-
pass promise, thereby knocking a deal of stuffing
out of the ‘ ‘ movement, ” which had, until then,
been receiving such enthusiastic support. Upon
this appeals were made to railway authorities and
to Premier Girlies, and finally seme weird,
peculiar compromise of a private and confidential
character was arrived at; but it was quite settled
that no future banquets to Ministers can be floated
at the State Railways’ expense. That Mr. Dow
was directly responsible for the arrangement
originally made by the “ movement ” committee is
not asserted. Anyway, he could not have been
the initiator of the idea. Not by any means.
Mr. Dow’s admirers merely asked for the same
favour that was granted to the late constituents of
Mister Gillies when they tendered him a compli-
mentary farewell feed. The enlightened voters of
Rodney came up to the Gillies demonstration on
free railway passes!
The Pup versus the Pope.
The unslumbering CAiN-raisers of Orangeism are
again abroad in their might in New South Wales.
For more than 40 years they have borne the heavy
cross of not being allowed to march through Syd-
ney, to the glorification of the Orange industry
and the trepidation of the Pope, and they have no
love for crosses. They have suffered long, and it
being the nature of worms to turn, they have turned.
A deputation of their leaders waited upon Premier
Paskes the other day, and asked for the repeal
of the Party Processions Act, so that the yellow-
ness of the Pup might be made more obvious to
the public eye. They want to carry round Wil-
liam of Pious and Immortal Memory and his
prad on banners of intimidation blown out by
breezes of license and held up by hands of
bigotry, and they want bands to play “ Boyne
Water ” and musically admonish Croppies to lie
down. Mr. Coonanbarra- Hornsby Davies,
who appeared for the plaintiffs, urged that practi-
cally Orangeism embraced the whole Christian
religion, and that, one of its cardinal points being
fidelity to the throne and State, it would.be a
safe thing to let it loose on society. The expres-
sion “ cardinal ” was an unhappy one in that con-
nection, but mo matter. The spokesmen asked to
be permitted to flaunt their fusty relics in the
faces of a derisive and sunburnt people most of
whom don’t know or care where Aughrijij is, be-
cause the Catholics, by making their organisation
a benefit society, evade the provisions of the Act,
Parkes said the matter was too trivial for him to
bother about, but he would support an amend-
ment of the law. So it may be antici-
pated that at an early day some loyal M.P,
will delay the business of Parliament and
the country with a Bill to open up the fountains
of the great deep of sectarian hate. A Bill to In-
duce Window-Breaking and Eye-Gouging, and
otherwise to Encourage Riot and Assault and
Battery, is not a trivial matter. It may he said
that it is a curtailment of liberty to prevent reli-
gious party demonstrations, but it is only so in the
same sense as the law which seeks to prevent men
from using threatening language, or shaking their
fists in each others’ faces. The object of the Act
was to stop the Pharisaical and intolerant custom
of setting class against class, and inflaming all the
ignorance, superstition, and uncharitableness that
form inline with sleeves rolled up behind thedivid-
ing emblems of party belief. We don’t want any
resurrection of Irish and Orange brawls and bitter-
nesses. Anyone who has had the affliction of
living in the towns of the North of Ireland will
understand what “ the loveliness of July” would
become like in Sydney if William 111. were
unchained. The Party Processions Act applies
to all creeds, and if it is carried out no one can
complain of individual unfairness. If the Catho-
lics unduly evade it let a provision be promptly
made to block their game. The Orange procession
business may suit Parkes at ele tion-time, but all
honest politicians and all decent- people are tired
alike of Pope and Pup. .
♦
A strange thing this Sydney Sunday observance
as practised on the State railways. Theoretically
speaking, the observance of the Sabbath by State
servants is a beautiful and touching spectacle.
But its incidence is partial, peculiar, and incom-
plete. Between Sydney and Parramatta the
railway officials don’t observe the Sabbath ; they
can’t; they are too busy. Between Parramatta
and the Blue Mountains the Sabbath is observed.
Between Wellington and Bourke again it is not"
The mail train for Bourke, which leaves Sydney
on Saturday evening, travels the whole of the
blessed Sabbath, arriving at its destination on
Sunday evening. A mail train leaves Bourke for
Sydney every Sunday morning, and also travels
the whole of that holy day, but on purpose not to
break the observance of the Sydney Sunday no
train leaves Bourke on the Saturday, and for a
similar reason no train arrives at Bourke on the
Monday. Hence we see that the observance of the
Sabbath by the State railway officials is merely a
matter of latitude. The State winks at the Sab-
bath being broken between Sydney and Parra-
matta and between Wellington and Bourke, but
between Parramatta and Wellington “ there is a
great gulf fixed.” What a lot of humbugs we are !
The cabled statement that Reynolds’ News"
paper was much dissatisfied with the balance-
sheet published in connection with the Dockers’
Fund, is hardly borne out on perusal of the paper,
which simply calls for an explanation of several
vaguely-stated items. The total receipts were
£48,736 3s. Id. Of this sum the colonies contri-
£30,433 15s, ; the noble British public,
£13,730 2s. 4d. ; trades-unions and societies,
£4473 12s; 2d. ; and foreign sources, £108.145. 7d.
The expenditure tvas £42,999 12s. 2d., of which
sum £192 cannot accounted for, owing to
the fact that accounts were ill-kept of the relief
given out during the early and more exciting part
of the struggle. Messrs. Burns, Tillett, awl
Mane drew nothing for their services, and the
sum of £2OO 12s. spent by them was expended in
cab and railway fares, telegrams, cablegrams,
postages, and other expenses!
- • -*■
That astute commercial explorer, Brigand Btax,
let, states that his wonderful escapes “ have con-
vinced him that he was watched over by an over-
ruling Providence.” The unhappy blacks whose
country he ravaged, whose larder of game he de-
pleted, and whose brethren he massacred with the
weapons of civilisation, must also be confirmed jn
their belief in an over-ruling demon. These little,
affairs may just as fairly be viewed upside-down.
Stanley’s smug Pharisaism remind us of Wil-
helm’s “ Ten thousand Frenchman sent below,
praise God from whom all blessings flow. ”
-
Last Thursday a youth named W. J. Engleeield
got three months’ hard labour for the alleged lar-
ceny of ss.—his first offence. He was a clerk to
the Sydney Water and Sewerage Board, and had
nd defence to make, save that he knew he had
paid in all monies received by him. Engleeield
has his whole future blasted for 60 pence. Is Mr.
Stipendiary Lee a regular bench Jeffreys ? or,
perchance. Were there other impressed charges
against the miserable ? And if there were, how
was it that these charges were not fully gone into,
with a view to making absolutely clear the
lad’s guilt? Picture* it ! Think of it if you
can !—three long months of toil with hardened
gaol-birds men who would have adorned
the lowest public-house corners of Sodom and
Gomorrah, for what may have been only a mere
lapse of memory. An inquiry is imperatively de-
manded in this case. Ye gods ! why has Botany
Bay no Griffith to give it an “ Offenders’ Prohi-
bition Act ?” The law 7 is an engine to make
criminals. One Sydney police-magistrate gives
Engleeield three months for stealing os. ;
another Sydney police-magistrate gives Thomas six
months for stealing £13,000. Justice is blind
drunk.
Treasurer M'Millan, in proposing the toast of
“ The Ministry and Parliament of New Zealand,”
at the banquet given them by the roystering re-
presentatives of New South Wales at the N.Z.
Exhibition, said “he believed Mr. Deakin was
the ablest man ever produced in Victoria.” But
strong as is this statement taken by itself, it
becomes feeble and mean w-hen compared with
that made by Sir Charles Dilke in Us new book
to the effect that whenever a Federated Australia
becomes a thing of fact Alfred Deakin will be
Premier. This is better than calling spirits from
the vasty deep to turn tables and talk mouldy
chestnuts about happiness being the reward of
virtue, or even than writing leading articles for
the Age. Does Alfred remember when he .was
a distinguished ornament of the “ Ocean ” class in
the Lyceum, opposite the Trades Hall, where
the ceremonies commenced with a march-round
followed by instruction in sections (begin-
ning with a sort of ABC class under blic
banner of the “ Fountain ” and ending in
that under the symbol of the “Ocean”) and
wound up wi th another march (to the music of
“ Pinafore ”) of an involved kind, strongly sug-
gestive of the ballet, but which a high spiritualistic
authority had stated was an exact reproduction
of w'hat was going on every day in the next stage
of existence ? We wonder if lie still believes in
Mahatmas and Astyal influences apd lunatic
ghosts that wander round uniyer§e searching
for tables and doors .to rap on ? Prqbably nq,t.
.When a man gets up in the world he almost always
goes back on his old spirit (and other) friends.
, . 7 -♦
Dear Bulletin, —Anything more lame and im-
potent than the Australian Natives’ Conference in
Melbourne cannot be imagined. Net a single
man had the pluck to stand upland declare what
was wanted, though plenty of them had it in their
hearts. So the talk was all mealy-mouthy,
mamby-pamby, half-and-half platitude, and the
consequence is universal contempt showered on
the Conference, gs is always the case wheyi .men
shuffle and palter. Melville was a feather
bolster enough to choke it. Talk about saying the
least possible in the most words. One is ashamed
at all the mush tumbled into the papers. The
enemy is delighted. PußVEshas “cooked” himself
by refusing to attend the Federation Conference, as
President of the. Victorian Association. He.pre-
ferred the-, enjoyment of a voyage with the aristo-
crats in Sir W. J. Clarke’s yacht, the Janet,
along the Tasmanian coast. . His resignation is
looked for, following that of another prominent
man, Fag LESon, of the Melbourne branch,
shocked at the language used respecting Governor
Hopetoun, by another branch President. Eagle-
son is a rising barrister, and what would become
of his business if he became identified with the
cause of Australian Independence ? Well, let
’em go. The nail must be driven home.—D.
—_—
Czar Panton, the other day, in Melbourne Dis-
trict .Court, had a respectable working man
brought up before him for the hideous crime of
fruit hawking. The poor fellow, an honest labourer,
said he had a large family, but had been attacked
by rheumatism, which compelled him to seek to
earn a pittance with a fruit-barrow. The Czar
said he had nothing to do with that. Unable to
pay a heavy fine, this poor man went to gaol, like
many others of late. Oh, Panton, there is a
heavy reckoning coming round for these things.
By such findings you turn the Bench into a mere
shopkeepers’ engine. The honest fruit hawker is
sent to Melbourne gaol, mixed up with criminals,
in the filthiest den of Australia. Read the
published statements of Gilliver Gee, the tem-
perance lecturer, put into Melbourne gaol for
Sunday speaking on the wharf, at the very time
when the Rev. Dr. Bevan was speaking publicly
a little way off. Fancy the luxurious Bevan in
Melbourne Gaol from whence po >r Gilliver
Gee came away covered with insects !
*
Someone having trumpeted as a discovery that
the way to the millennium is through fewer hours
and the-consequent employment of more workers,
Sydney Echo oracularly states that —“ The em-
ploye would not consent to have his wages re-
duced by a sumptuary law while he is willing
and able to earn more ; the employer, on his part,
will not pay eight hours’ wages for four hours'
work.” Now, in a community where natural op-
portunities are free to all and old age is not looked
forward to with dread, no man will desire to
labour after his daily wants are satisfied, and no
employer will have the power to compel him
either directly or indirectly to do so.


[?]
646 Macquarie-street North, Sydney, January 29, 1890,
Mv Dear Moorabinda,—
The heaving throng that attended the civic reception
on 24th inst., at Sydney Exhibition Building, showed
what a long-felt want a real mayoress is beside the
Beautiful Harbour. I can’t compute crowds, but the jam
was something alarming—especially round the Mayoress
and the refreshment buffets, which occurred with astonish-
ing frequency, and were “ bountifully supplied with
heverythink,” in the words of a well-known suburban
alderman. Mrs. Burdekin, who with Mr. Burdekin re-
ceived her guests on a carpeted space to the left of the
entrance, wore a charmingly tasteful gown of white silk
made with a round skirt, the deep flounce round the feet
being of apricot lace, white Empire sash. The bodice
was of folded silk and apricot lace cunningly mingled,
diamond brooch—white gloves (at least I suppose they
had been when first she put them on, but when I arrived
the right one was a grimy grey hue—a mute victim to the
dirty fashion of tan gloves), red fan, and a beautiful little
bonnet in cream lace with black velvet bows and strings
and a few flowers about it ; the Mayor being gotten up
like a bridegroom or something extra-festive in lavender
continuations and a nice white tie. As for the dresses
worn, when people hustled past like paper on a high wind
there wasn’t much time to gain more than a glance, but I
managed to suspect that the pretty wife of the Minister
for Education wore a fetching gown in cream silk
and sage-green silk and guipure; that the Postmaster-
General had brought his wife in floral pongee with a grey
vest, and a black-and-white bonnet with marguerites on
it; that Frances Saville wore cream floral silk, with pink
flowers and a very neat bonnet; and that a frisky little
matron wore chronic-green lined, cut over with black
velvet. On the other side of the hedge, the ham-fat lady
wore a grey silesia dressing-gown adorned with much grey
lace, and an airy confection in pink on her well-oiled
looks; somebody's cook clothed a beer-cask figure in
crushed strawberry ; and a family determined to do it in
style had brought their boys in cream-satin pants, ruby
plush cloaks slashed with pink, cream vests adorned with
gold tinsel, and grey felt hats en suite ! There were
dozens of men present, from long-maned Sir Jack down to
Quong Tart, who cordially shook hands with the “bobby *
on guard at the door. The reception went off very
smoothly, all the arrangements, decorations, etc., being
under the supervision of the mayoral secretary, Mr.
Bradley, who is a nice young man with a talent that way.
Sydney Royal, with its subtle odor of fresh paint, still
attracts huge crowds, and is attended by more children
and fewer old men than I have ever seen before at panto-
mimes. By the by, a girl in the theatre the other night
had got herself up to look like a man, at long range-
white shirt, choker, vest and black coat with gardenia in
the buttonhole. I really thought she was a man'until,
looking through my glasses, I saw she had a waist. That’s
the stumbling-block to all girls who ape masculinity—
they won’t give up the hour-glass outline and come out
straight up and down.
And, speaking of theatricals, I hear that at a Sydney
theatre not quite a century ago vegetables were brought
for the leading lady and the “ juvenile’’—the Brolxlig-
nagian bouquet for the principal being ostentatiously
fluttered over the floats and sinuously received as usual,
while the floral tribute for the soubrette was only per-
mitted an entrance through the secret medium of the
stage door! Thus does the long-headed Thespienne
maintain an apparently unrivalled popularity, though
surrounded by pretty public favourites. Managers'
emale relatives please note.
The return cricket match N.S.W. v. Victoria at Sydney
Association Ground on 25th inst. attracted more men
than women to the grand-stand, therefore one was able
to calmly contemplate the shockingly incongruous dress-
ing of the average male citizen without having one’s
ruminations disturbed by flashes of feminine finery—of
which there was precious, little. In the ladies’ reserve
the Mayoress, Mrs. Burdekin, wore a charming gown of
white silk made very simply, a floral hat of blush roses
and foliage, tan gloves, a mat fan, and one of the new
immense and cruelly suggestive spirit-decanter scent-
bottles. Mrs. Brough wore a fawn cashmere, en redin-
gote, small pointy bonnet with wings en suite ; and Miss
Temple appeared in green floral pongee. Jennie Aladdin
Lee wore cream, snowdrop toque, and the N.S.W. and
Victorian colours in an impartial how on her gamp. The
grass on the lawn is very thick and soft now and pro-
menading was much indulged in, though most of the
rtresses didn’t justify the deed. It’s a pity there’s no
lawn to the ladies’ reserve, which is bound by arid, ankle-
spraining gravel and a few bob-tail plantlets which cry
out for the watering-pot.
Let me tell you an amusingly vulgar incident that
helped to beguile the tedium of a tram journey for me
the other evening. At one of the stopping places a dandy
on horseback stood revealed with cigarette in mouth,
endeavouring to strike a light on his saddle, his coat-
sleeve, his whip. Of course the proceeding was breath-
lessly watched by the car-load, and when he had failed to
scratch a light on any of these surfaces, an excited voice
came from the recesses of the tram, “Why don’t you
strike it on your dashed pants?” This advice was not
taken.
Under the significant heading, “ Cooking for the Poor;”
I meet the following recipe in the columns of a Sydney
ladies’ weekly ; “ Ivory-dust jelly. Boil one pound of
ivory-dust for eight hours. It will require no skimming.
When done strain through a jelly-bag. This may be
flavoured in various ways,” &c. Giving due allowance for
the strict economy of “charity ” dishes, by the time that
recipe gets into the philanthropic kitchen, for ivory read
“bone’’-dust, flavoured with whatever comes handiest
except kerosene. To a Samaritan whose husband is the
only medico in the township I heartily recommend this
dish. Even if they don’t pay up it will be practice for
him.
That queer poisoning-story which is just now going
the rounds in Sydney should surely interest the police. A
certificate of “Heart-disease ” covers a multitude of sins.
Someone writing to a daily paper asks our cricketers,
&c., to wear knickerbockers instead of flannel pants, but
I’m sure he doesn’t know what he’s talking about. The
upper part of young Australia bears exposure pretty well,
but oh! let them keep their shanks covered (in the ab-
sence of sawdust). Though the sloppy pants do blow
round the bean-pole supports and conceal how little there
is inside, still they don’t show so much as slick hosen do.
While our youths are constructed on the skewer plan
they should solemnly abjure tight stockings.
Owing to the absence of moral support I was not present
at the meeting of the N.S.W. Cremation Society on 20th
inst.; although it was my intention to sit in the front
row and lead the applause. I got as far in as the mat,
but, though we had been “ warmly invited” (these crema-
tionists are fastidious about the fitness of their adverbs),
there wasn’t a solitary woman present, and I beat a hasty
retreat, not knowing whether, had I braved the music
alone, the enthusiasts assembled might not, in the event
of ocular demonstration being decided on, have organised
an impromptu suttee with your defenceless Sappho as the
sacrifice. I heard afterwards that there were over twenty
present, and that the principal pearls of wisdom fell from
the lips of Dr. Creed (chairman), who said that the society
didn’t simply want money, but the names of persons
willing to become associates, who would promise to talk
cremation at their friends until they worried them into
incinerating their nearest and dearest. Should cremation
be generally followed it will save a lot of hard cash for the
friends of the departed, for it is estimated that the crema-
tor’s bill will modestly run “To incinerating one adult,
205.” People who wish to join in the burning question
should send their addresses to the “Royal Society’s
'Rooms,“Elizabeth-street, Sydney.” Both “Mrs.” and
“ Miss ” are eligible.
Another woman’s industry started in Sydney. A lady
hairdresser, late of England, proposes to wait upon ladies
at their own homes for haircutting, singeing, and sham-
pooing. But probably she won’t be worried much, as
most Sydney women prefer to send their maids to get
their hair dressed, the re-glorified coiffure being brought
home carefully in a bonnet-box. And, speaking of har ,
reminds me that any woman who liked to “do” Australia
with a good depilatory would be riding in her barouche in
two twinkles, for it strikes yours ever that as a feminine
nation we are painfully hirsute. Feminine moustaches are
not unknown, and when not exactly bearded we are, oh, so
downy round the upper lip, on the chin and down the
cheekbones—not to mention mental conditions. Go up
close to most girls, and if they’re not all embryo “ Jo-Jos’
they are imported and not to be counted in, for the Simon
Pure maiden presents a positively mossy appearance at
short range. I was airing my hairy discovery to a medico
yesterday, and he deigned to enlighten me to the effect
that it was “ nearly always the case in wawm countries
where the ladies are—er—much in the sun,” so I suppose
we’ll havft to grin and bear it, or .else fall back on the
tweezers. -By the bye, since all our young men are
shaving clean, in a vain endeavour to look Hopetounish
or “ professional,” it’s as well the girls are sprouting. A
kiss without a moustache is like an egg without salt,” as
the Prophet beautifully puts it ; and it really isn’t of
much consequence on which face the moustache grows, so
long as it’s there.
“ Anything will do for the colonials ” seems to be a
fixed notion in the minds of many of our distinguished
visitors. This was evidently, the uppermost notion of
that church dignitary or his wife, who some time ago, at
a garden party, had, by way of claret-jugs, common
wash-stand ewers filled with claret, and made not
the slightest attempt to disguise the unsesthetic-
looking utensil. An example of the same sentiment was
once offered up country by a new-chum swell, who an-
nounced to a party of girls that he would chalk a pair
of soiled gloves for an approaching ball. “Anything will
do for a bush ball,” drawled New Chum. One damsel
declared that no girl then present would dance with him,
but another rep'ied : “Ah, well, Mr. K., when a man fails
to make an impression he resorts to desperate expedients.”
There is generally a reason large as life to be found in
high places for all fashionable fads. I wonder who is
responsible for the decided increase in the number of
pearl-«reamed and rouged faces one notices on the Block ?
Yours affectionately,
SAPPHO SMITH.
Abigail claims that 90 members of the
N.S.W. Assembly favour local option.
A witness in the Newtown (Sydney) Police
Court last week swore that he never believed a
policeman.
From a. Victorian country paper: “The
little cemetery at Beaufort is rapidly filling.”
What a pathetic touch of local pride !
West Australia’s leading paper, on getting
news of the death of poor Gumboil, printed a
three-quarter-column obituary of the first Earl of
Cairns.
Benzon, the “ Jubilee Juggins,” has ad-
mitted that he passed a forged cheque at Nice.
It is easier to write a cheque than a book ; Benzon
only got £6OO for the book which he did not write,
£lOOO for the cheque which he did write.
Since 30th. September last Mr. F. M.
Clements, of Newtown, has had printed in Sydney
for Australian distribution no less than 213,080
copies of his comprehensive Medical Guide. He
anticipates issuing 500,000 copies this year.
A Freemantle (W.A.) tradesman shows
his contempt for the alleged goddess of justice by
displaying the following quaint signboard over his
place of business Here lives -, who was
rob’d of his property in a Supreme Court on 18th
October, 18.—
Last half-year the Broken Hill Proprietary
silver mine (N.S.W.) disbursed in dividends
£368,000, besides spending nearly £43,000 in
machinery, &c. The dividend has now been in-
creased to £BO,OOO per month, and will shortly be
raised still further.
Mr. Gilliatt, one of the N.S.W. Public
Works examiners just appointed at £750 a year,
is a sori-in-law of old Jack Robertson. It is
satisfactory to find that there yet exists in N.S.W.
no prejudice against the old man sufficient to
prevent the authorities from giving his relatives
Government billets.
A young lady, on the voyage to India,
about a hundred years ago, discovered that three
young officers, who were rivals for her hand, in-
tended to go ashore at the Cape and fight a three-
cornered duel on her account. Calling them
before her she reproved them for their foolishness,
and promised to marry all three of them in India.
The deadly nature of the climate and the dangers
of war soon enabled her to keep her promise, for
she married the three—one after the other.
“Dagonet” suggests that the proper title
for deposed monarchs (and, he might have added
Colonial Governors) is—“ Your Exilency.”
Pullman says that he was offered £lOO,OOO
in Victoria for the patent of his apparatus to re-
concile differ.-ut railway-gauges without relaying
the railways. The N.S.W. Commissioners are
understood to condemn his invention as unwork-
able.
Captain Pilkington, once of the 11th Hus-
sars, and late private secretary to Governor
Broome, has just been appointed to the command-
antship of the W.A. volunteers at a stiff salary
and with the honorary rank of major. The locals
want to know what a cavalry captain knows about
infantry drill, and what service Captain Pilking-
ton has seen.
Says the Christchurch (N.Z.) Telegraph
in all soberness :—-
Plagiarism is fast becoming a common fault. In the
literary world now, if theft can only be effected without
detection, many persons are not above it. Of this Mr.
Bracken, the well-known New Zealand poet, has had
some experience. One of his well-known poems, “Not
Understood,” was some time ago published as anony-
mous in the Sydney Bulletin. The fraud was detected
owing to Miss Dargon, and the editor apologised.
The C. Telegraph (which now performs the
creditable feat of telling three lies in less than two
lines) is a journal that has on various occasions
styled The Bulletin “a scurrilous paper;” to
one cognisant of the true facts of the case, how-
ever, the Telegraph seems to have a truer claim
to the epithet. As a matter of fact, “Not Under-
stood,” a clipping from some obscure paper —pos-
sibly the Christchurch Telegraph, which we
have never seen ten miles outside of its own
village until now —was sent to The Bulletin by
M. Lachaume, President of the French _ Club,
Sydney, with a request for its republication in
order that its merit might meet with wider
appreciation. M. Lachaume’s opinion being
fully endorsed, “ Not Understood ” was put into
type, and as we were for the time oblivious of
Mr, Bracken’s claim to its authorship the term
“ Anon ” was (as is usual in such cases) appended
to the verses. On receipt of Miss Dargon’s letter
The Bulletin (which had no reason to “apolo-
gise ” as stated, and, therefore, did not apologise)
at once gave Mr. Bracken the credit which it was
glad to find was his—for Mr. Bracken is an old
and valued contributor of this journal, in whose
columns some of his very best work originally ap-
peared—and the result is that everybody in Aus-
tralasia lias now read “Not Understood” and
knows the name of its author. There is surely no
attempt at “fraud” or “theft” here. At the
worst The Bulletin may be charged with lack
of memory, or incomplete acquaintance with
modern poetrv, but as to design on our part to
defraud the writer or any other man of the kudos
attached to a charming literary effort none exists
or ever did exist. No one will more readily
acknowledge this fact than Mr. Bracken him-
self whom, we have indirectly complimented by
selecting one of his poems for republication purely
on its intrinsic merits, and who may now well pray
to be saved from his alleged friends.
A somewhat unexpected scene occurred at
the dinner given by Mayor Burdekin of Sydney
on Anniversary Day. The Mayor had invited a
; select Ereetrade company ostensibly to celebrate the
colony’s entrance on her 102nd year, and so carefully
had the guests apparently been selected with regard
to their political views, that there do not appear
from the published list to have been more than
five known Protectionists apart from Mr. Barton,
Q.C., at the board. Mr. Salomons, Q.C., to whom
was entrusted the toast of “ The Ministry,” threw a
bomb-shell into the Parkesian camp by boldly
stating that if a E ederal Government were now
called into existence N.S.W. Ereetrade would be
doomed. The tariff question in relation to Federa-
tion was the question of the hour, and yet, said Mr.
Salomons, the audience would hear only one side.
Sir Henry Parkes in prematurely bringing forward
his Federation proposals was about to wreck the
interests of his colony—for which latter word (Mr.
Salomons being a Freetrader) people will please
read ‘ 1 party. ” This delightful piece of plain
speaking did not suit the book of the Parkesians,
who at once began to howl and wriggle and
endeavoured to silence Mr. Salomons by noise,
and when finally the Q.O. proceeded to say that
“Sir Henry Parkes had once taken up the stand
he (Mr. Salomons) then held, and he would prove
that to them from a book which he held in his
hand,” a perfect uproar resulted. One or two
of the papers try to make out that the guests were
unanimously against Mr. Salomons, but the fact
is that he had in his favour a very strong contingent
consisting of those level-headed persons who
now perceive that you can no more mix one part
of Foreign-trade with five parts of Protection and
avoid weakening the former than you can mix brandy
with water without lowering the alcoholic strength
of the spirit. Premier Parkes, than whom nobody
is more quick to seize the sense of a meeting, at
once saw that the company was greatly divided in
opinion, and the fact cast a damper on his own
subsequent utteranees. Thus, what, was on the
face of it artfully designed as a great Parkesian
Federationist demonstration was used as a means
of sowing the seeds of discord in an already
divided camp. The moral of the whole business
appears to be that only properly-constituted
authorities (like Premiers) are permitted to dog-
matise oracularly and say nasty things after
dinner. Another moral is that eating and drinking
should be kept apart from political discussion.
To get excited after dinner ruins a man’s digestion
and leads up to “ scrapping matches,” as the
Parliamentai-y refreshment-room will testify. On
the present occasion Mr. Salomons was objected
to simply because he did not say what was
Parkesianly palatable—and at a dinner every-
thing should be palatable. But who hath ap-
pointed Parkes taster to the nation ?
The following touching lines were found in a
deserted camp in the interior of Western Aus-
tralia.
“Kidney and urinary trouble is universal, and
the only save and sure remedy is Dr. Soule’s
American Hop Bitters —rely on it,”
The people of Sydney should remember
that for the finest and cheapest photos, they
should pay a visit to Chubb & Praeger, Empire
Galleries, 482 and 484 George-street, over Beales.
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
NOW I LAY ME DOWN TO SLEEP.
Near the camp-fire’s flickering light
In my blanket bed I lie
Gazing through the shades of night
At the twinkling stars on high.
O’er me spirits in the air
Silent vigils seem to keep
As I breathe ray childhood’s prayer,
Now I lay me down to sleep.
Foemen may be lurking near,
In the bushes, dark and deep.
Drinking St. Louis Lager Beer
I pray the Lord my soul to keep.
CORRESPONDENCE
“ A.H.8.” (Bowning) : Might suit “ Little
Folks.” “Duty on Wool”: American, isn’t it?
“ W.S.” (Coonamble) ; Lacks point “ J.D.G.” : A
good story, but very rough oa Biggar “ Arthur H.
C ” : An old Bulletin idea—used long ago
“ Albula ” (Moonee Ponds): Excellent. Will illustrate...
“ G.G.”: To make yourself clearly understood in few
words is the art of composition. Have no doubt your
meaning was perfectly clear to you “Skit” (W.A.) :
Please continue and send address “J.0.G.”: Your
ode to Searle is too bad and comes too late. In the lines—
“ Thy days are o’er,
In fragile boat thou’lt ride no more,”
we have to say that a man doesn’t “ ride ” in a sculling
boat; he has to work his passage all the time. However,
your ode is the least bad of about 640 to hand “ A. 8.”
(Yass) : However good may be your paragraphs your
sketch is very twaddly indeed “Pernicious Adver-
tising”: Too wordy by half “J. Henry” (Brisbane
Water): Only seven sides of your MS. to hand
“ A Mere Gentile” : Even if the Jewish race gave to the
world Disraeli on one side, they also gave it, on the other,
Karl Marx. That ought to square the account, surely...
“Mr. English”: Good but unsuitable. Try the
Nation ...“Charles Fitzroy”; Capital letter; it con-
tains more capitals than sense. Like all bigots, your re-
ligion is the orthodox one. How can we find time to read
16 closely-written sides of such balderdash? “ Patrick
B—— ”: We had already looked into the matter. See
last issue “ Geo. Howard ” : We hope David will read
and thoroughly enjoy your very outspoken epistle
“ Tommie Pipeful ” ; Not in our line ; try Slade Murray
“ Ghanet “Bile Slogger ” seems a well-chosen name
for your milk-man’s monody. Returned “ T.C. and
E.P.”: Too lengthy and not sufficiently direct or novel in
treatment “ Will-o’-the-Wisp ” : Will consider
“C.G.F.”; Wordy and crude .. “ Irishman”: Threepence
would not cover cost of production.... “ Wiremu” : Idea
good, verses diffuse ; metre rocky “Abe”: One thing
at a time. Poetical criticism in prose is sufficiently
difficult, but when crude criticism is wedded to “multy”
verse, we sigh for a holiday.,.. “J. Weir ”: Contains some
good lines. Will see what can be done with it..,. “ Oro.”:
The editor of this paper has now three first-class madmen
in regular daily correspondence with him and has no
desire to add to his list. When a vacancy occurs you
will be duly notified thereof—if you manage to keep up
to your present standard of moonstruckness ...“J.G.”
(Darlington): Good “ E.W.K.” (N.Z.): Four criminal
libels on seven slips of MS. is a first-class record. You are
too beastly straightforward for this climate.... “ J.P.K.”
(Essendon, Vic.): Many thanks.l.F.” (Post Office,
Newtown): Not suitable... “Viator” (Brisbane): Com-
monplace... “A. Jason”: We love to read about the
great silver “ lodes,” from 400 to 600 feet in depth, 200
feet wide, and three miles long, the ore going from XOOoz.
to 800 oz. to the ton. Why are such mines floated ?
“Fred Benison ” : “Voices” very untuneful. “Love”
and “prove,” “one” and “on,” “ come ” and “home”
are not rhymesO. W. J.” : Scarcely good enough....
“ Penury Harkes ”: Not up to standard.... “ Para ” : You
are very kind to write, but why write with a skewer ?,...
“C.A.T.”: We have enough poems on Searle to paper
Parkes’ dead-house “ Frank Gillson ”: It was a drawn
fight; the ring was rushed “Verdant Verisimple ” :
Sorry to say we haven’t heard of you before. About
what time did you write ?... “F. Mole ” : What was the
story about ? “ J.G.” (T.P., Camden): Will read it and
let you know “ H.W.K.” (Bairnsdale) : Four excellent
verses and two or three very bad ones, which, unhappily,
can’t be out out... “J.A.F.”: We can’t make anything
of Shanty Flat ... “ P.M.” (Vic.); Not so bad, but not
good enough.
It Ever Has Been.
It has ever been since Time began,
And ever will be till Time lose breath,
That love is a mood —no more—to man,
And love to woman is life or death.
For her hope dies when love’s sun sets ;
For him hope sleeps—till a new day dawn. 1
And she remembers, and he forgets,
While the world rolls on—while the world rolls
on.
It is woman who sits with her starved desire
And drinks to passion in cups of tears.
She reads by Hie light of her heart on fine
The secrets of love through lonely years.
But out of all she has felt, or heard,
Or read by the glow of her soul’s white flame,
If she dare but utter aloud one word,
How the world cries shame!—how the world
cries shame!
Whatever a man may think or feel
He can tell to the world, and it hears aright;
But it bids the woman conceal, conceal,
And woe for the thoughts that at last ignite !
She may.serve up gossip, or dwell on fashion,
Or play the critic with speech unkind ;
But alas ! for the woman who speaks with passion,
For the world is blind —oh, the world is blind !
It cannot distinguish between the glow
Of a gleaming star in a sky of gold
And a spent cigar in the dust below— (
’Twixt unclad Eve and a wanton bold.
And ever if woman speak what she feels
(And feels consistent with God’s great plan), ;
It has cast her under its Juggernaut wheels
Since the world began—since the world began.
-ELIA WHEELER WH[?]
Jeff. Pavis’ daughter, Mrs. Pullitzer, is
wife of the proprietor of the New York Herald.
Robert Louis Stevenson is expected tp
arrive in Sydney by the Lubeck on sth Feb. froip
Samoa. His stepson, Lloyd Osborne, author of
“The Wrong Box,” arrived last month and
been recruiting among the Blue Mountains after
his long island trip.
Re theS.M. Herald’s article on Sydney
out-door sleeping, the well-known Mr. F. M.
Clements, of Newtown, writes to say that he
drove through the Domain at six o’clbck on the
morning following “ Spectre’s ” visit, when that
worthy could only count fourteen shelterless souls
in all that wide expanse, and then counted thirty
sleepers on the seats and the grass between the
gate and tire Technological Museum.


is not a photograph, nor a photo, a ghost—but a good photo, is a
true reflection of the original. For high-art photos, go to the
London Palace of Art, 10 Park-street, Sydney. Country photographers’ work from development
to completion executed at lowest prices. Bromides a speciality, Staff of artists kept for working up.
A GHOST
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
'Tm'vTRK Royal. . Aladdin,
Her Majesty's “A Midsummer Nights
Dream.”
OinTEßiox “ The Balloon.”
rv LORAMA . Battleof Gettysburg.
School of Arts Harry Rickards’ Company.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Theatre Royal " Cinderella.”
noTvnws’ “The Guv nor.”
Opera House “ Uncle Tonfis Cabin."
Alexandra ,1 ?J on , t , c ; C^, nst0 ‘
St. George’s Hall Muddles.
Societies’ Gardens “ Fire of London.
At Sydney Criterion, on Saturday last,
the curtain rose on “Our Bitterest Foe” and a
packed house. A new production is often re-
ceived with a curt, “ There’s nothing in it, but
with G. C. Herbert’s trifle the complaint is that
it contains too much. It is a sort of social
kaleidoscope, and in it almost every human pas-
sion and impulse in turn comes uppermost. You
have admiration, love, duty, mistrust, fear,
contempt, disgust, dissimulation, more love,
tyranny, self-assertion, manly independence,
self-abnegation, and gratitude interpreted by
three performers only of whom Percy Lyn-
dal, as De la Fere, to our mind, is entitled
to the greatest praise. It is impossible to im-
press any audience very strongly by momentary
effects, no matter how striking, when these are
succeeded by equally strong situations of a wholly
different character; lightning flash follows flash
with the utmost rapidity and the mind retains no
vivid impression of any, and therefore small idea
of the ensemble they are intended to present.
# * •
“The Balloon,” some of whose situations
are reminiscent of the “Rocket,’ is full of humour
of the touch-and-go variety; it abounds with im-
probabilities, and is a huge grin from start to
finish. The fat is chiefly on the wigs of George
Anson and Robert Brough. Anson, as Aubrey
Fitzjohn, an impecunious, thirsty, pimply, bounce-
able, shattered rake, is fitted like a glove, and
the house is with him all the way. Brough
is equally well fixed in Dr. Glynn, the
prosperous provincial medico, and his rhap-
sodical description of his aerial experiences
is good enough for anywhere. Captain Cameron
does not suit Percy Lyndal, his ease is too pal-
pably affected, and the way in which he transfers
his weight from one foot to the other is more sug-
gestive of tight boots than of volatility. G. L.
Gordon has a very fine make-up as Dr. Boyton,
and he plays it for all it is worth. The Misses
Enson, Romer, Browne, and Temple have little
to do. The double bill will probably run another
week,
* *
At Sydney School of Arts, Harry Rickards
supplies his patrons with a new assortment of
good things, opening with “ Coo-biddy,” a well-
staged comedietta in which adulterated groceries,
broken English, and an abbreviated brigand with
a black patch on his eye are inextricably inter-
mingled. In the olio which follows, Rickards in-
troduces a powerfully dramatic sketch entitled
“ As in a Looking-glass,” which is so well received
that he is kept singing encore songs until fairly
exhausted. The other business is all changed and
the giant Marionettes, manipulated by I red.
Davys and Georgie Devoe, are a big draw. On
Anniversary Night Manager Jinkins, with tears
in his eyes, was reluctantly compelled to refuse
money.
** * *
At Sydney Royal the pantomime still
draws good houses, and everything now goes as
smoothly as the pantaloon down a butter-slide.
New music and songs have been dropped in here
and there, and the hard work and hot weather
have nearly melted some of the Pekin swells out
of their fleshings. “ Little Lord Fauntleroy is
billed for February Bth, when the claims of the
rival candidates will be finally settled to the
eternal dissatisfaction of their respective mammas.
** * *
At the Cyclorama, Waddington’s orchestra
tunefully discourses appropriate music at intervals
and Robinson causes the foundations
of Gettysburg to quaver with his lower Ds.
sit * * *
Manager Wyburd has been doing tremen-
dous business at Bondi Aquarium. Holidays and
hot weather are the best advertisers of the little
ocean nook.
* sit sU *
At Her Majesty’s the ‘ ‘ Dream” continues to
draw big houses —in fact, the best houses that the
building has ever known. As business shows little
signs of dropping, the date for the production of
the melodrama which is to follow still remains un-
fixed.
«* * »
Three months ago, when Ibsen’s “Doll’s
House was being played in Melbourne, The Bul-
letin notice reckoned up that dreary failure as
the work of a prig, interpreted in a priggish
fashion by Miss Achurch and her husband. The
Contemporary Review (for December last) con-
tains an article by Mr. Robert Buchanan, who
pronounced Ibsen to be “a belated and very
dwarfish Goethe, whose theme is the development
of the individual, the Apotheosis of the Prig.”
** * *
Scarcely one extenuating circumstance can
be offered in excuse for “ The Guv’nor,” at Mel-
bourne Princess’s. There is no human interest,
no plot, wit, or grain of sense in the whole, of its
thin carcase. The only apparent reason for re-
viving “ The Guv’nor ” lies in a legend to
the effect that Fred. Marshall used to convulse
bygone audiences with his performance of
the deaf boat-builder—an old chestnut who mis-
construes remarks and aggravates the hollow
absurdity of his replies by firing off an impossible
chuckle. It now falls to Elton’s lot to extract
some common or garden sort of fun from this
character, and if “The Guv’nor” is to run for
longer than one consecutive week the chuckle
aforesaid must share all responsibility with a
quantity of cotton-wool stuffed inside the seat of
the comedian’s trousers. Those who can refrain
from weeping at Elton’s chuckle will possibly dis-
cover a rich fund of humour in his padded latter-
end. The rest of the comedy consists of mistaking
everybody for somebody else and thinking they
did things that they didn’t. The exploded
nuisance who imagines he has got into a
lunatic asylum and that all the characters are
raving maniacs also turns up occasionally.
Played by a light, mercurial company, “ The
Gwv’nor ” might be acceptable on very hot nights,
when the exhausted understanding is incapable of
making an effort. The present company—with
an exception in favour of Elton, and a small
honourable mention for Sass—are so unsuited to
the work that it would be superfluous to hold
them up to reprobation in -detad. Sufficient to
remark, in a vague and general manner, that the
Triumvirate have latterly put up some walking
gentlemen who possess neither the physique,
voice, nor intelligence necessary for an ordinary
representation of the stage-lover.
* * *-
“Monte Cristo” is fighting along against
fearful atmospheric odds at the Alexandra. They
have pulled the drama together in its weakest
places, and Dampier now wipes out his persecutors
by 11 o’clock, instead of letting them maintain an
ignoble existence until midnight. Consequently,
a perspiring and spellbound “ house ” can afford
to wait for the great retribution scene, which
brings “Monte Cristo” to a picturesque termina-
tion amidst well-managed slaughter. ‘‘ Cinderella ”
still does great business at the Royal, but the suc-
cess of this hybrid arrangement in legs and limelight
remains a matter for dismal conjecture and silent
meditation. The trouble persists in concluding
with a harlequinade, containing a joyous, rollick-
ing clown, besides several policemen .and a num-
ber of small boys. These people are but very
little less diverting than a sick cow. Widow
O’Brien concludes an immense career at the
Opera House this week, and on Saturday a de-
tachment of the Firm’s swollen company will ap-
pear in conjunction with J. F. Sheridan and Co.
The alliance is to result in a spectacular produc-
tion—“ Uncle Tom’s Cabin,” or some other
novelty.
** * *
Pain’s “Fire of London ” made a tremen-
dous commencement, under exceptionally season-
able conditions, last Saturday night. Of this
spectacle—which is preceded by a variety perform-
ance and flanked by a lavish outlay in coloured
lamps—something more next week. Meanwhile
the Cyclorama flourishes, but the Halls are not in
much demand. The Victoria closes on Saturday
with a farewell benefit to Manager Friedman.
Burnand’s action
against a London paper
for publishing a scathing
notice of a performance
which hadn’t come off
reminds us that nobody
objects to a premature
laying on of the marma-
lade. A little Melbourne
paper was several hours
too soon with its stereo-
typed praises of a show
which poor Amy Sherwin
didn’t produce as per
promise. The miserable
little fraud went so far
as to say that the prima
donna was called before
the curtain and loaded
with “ floral tributes,”
&c.
* * *
Exceptionally tropi-
cal weather has had an
effect on the attendances
at the Theatre Royal,
Adelaide, where Solomon
and Bracy’s Opera Com-
pany have been appear-
ing in “ The Beggar
Student ” and “Martha.”
The operas are capitally
staged, and the singing
and acting of Lilian Tree,
Flora Graupner, Clara
Thompson, Knight Aston
Henry Bracy, John Ford
and others has been
warmly praised. Joe
Davis, who has charge of
the show, hopes to do
good business before the
season finishes. The Lon-
don Pavilion Company,
headed by Jolly Nash,
have been at Garner’s
Rooms, but the business
has not been great. Jack
Smith takes the company
on to Broken Hill.
* -* * *
On a recent child’s
night at Sydney Royal,
a prominent politician,
unduly prominent at all
times, sat in a stage-box with his little ones.
When Slade Murray saw him, knowing his thirst
for notoriety, he substituted his name for that of
Carington in the “ He’s all right, men from home”
ditty. Dan, is it necessary to state that it was
the “ jaynial one,” thereupon arose, and poking
his head out of the box with beaming smiles,
bowed solemnly three times, once to the chorus
and the back-cloth, once to the principals, and
lastly to the orchestra and the audience. Such
Eiffelesque self-approval can only be quenched by
cremation, or, say, shaving.
*# * *
A voice from the gods completed the
discomfiture of a play recently produced in
London. After four hours of incomprehensible
drivel, the hero had to tell his wife that he couldn’t
account for the awful things that had happened to
him, because it was “all so vague and unreal.”
And the irreverent “ god ” shouted “ Hear, hear,
yer , yer’ve just ’it it ! ”
Vjf
Miss Fortescue was one of the three lead-
ing fairies and wore wings in “lolanthe” at the
Savoy when young Lord Cairns (then Garmoyle),
who died the other day, got hopelessly mashed on
her-and rid of her for £lO,OOO.
Cairns has left this world of care,
Cairns has climbed the golden stair;
Will he pay “ ten thousand ” there
For jilting of an angel fair?
** * *
An irate theatre-goer sends us the following :
The early Christian fathers were wise ; they either ex-
cluded women entirely from their churches or relegated
them to obscure corners where they could not be seen,
and, which was of far more consequence - not heard. The
Jews of the present day are sane ; they allow women to
sit only on one side of the synagogue. Modern theatre-
goers are idiotic. Not only do they admit women to
theatres, but even allow them to mix promiscuously
therein with persons of the opposite sex. Women, in
any other part of the theatre than the stage, are an insuf-
ferable nuisance; and, while so constituted as to be
utterly incapable of enjoying the performance them-
selves, do their utmost to prevent the enjoyment of others.
lam a great theatre-goer. Comedy is ray especial de-
light. That delight, apart from the enjoyment derived
from the acting itself, consists in watching the evolution
of the plot, in anticipating the result of the many com-
plications, and in finding my anticipations entirely upset.
Similarly with my sex generally. Not so, however, with
women. Their perspicacity is a fatal obstacle to their en-
joying a play. So soon as the first character steps on the
boards they are able to predict, with really incredible
accuracy, every event of the plot. In a stage-whisper—
women are nothing if not theatrical —loud enough to be
heard within a radius of twenty yards, a lady
will, throughout the whole performance, be explain-
ing to her friend everything that is to come. So
anxious is she that herself, rather than the actors,
should be heard, and that she may not lose any
opportunity of enjoying the luxury of displaying
her superior knowledge, that, forgetful of all the rules of
feminine modesty, whioh—by the way, is usually con-
spicuous by its absence—she will, if without a friend to
plague, address her remarks to some man to whom she is
an utter stranger, and, for his benefit and that of half the
theatre, explain the meaning of the attitudes, gestures,
and facial expressions of the performers, which she thinks
might otherwise be lost on the stupid spectators. There
arc’those who say that this truly marvellous discernment
of females in regard to plays is not a natural, but an
acquired faculty, acquired by having seen the play before
or having read criticisms upon it, or the novel from which
it may have been adapted. I am not envious of faculties,
however wonderful, that are destructive of the enjoyment
of their possessor. I never calumniate. But I go to a
theatre to see the performance and not_ to be distracted
by the inane prattle of a parcel of babbling women.
At Poverty Point.
One “Mr. Donnelly” has, according to the local presr,
been working the baby-show racket in Christchurch and
Wellington (N.Z.) with much advantage. The ladies in
these cities who imagined that Donnelly was a philan-
thropist and asserted that if there were more like him
there would be some inducement for decent, healthy girls
to marry, are now praying Heaven to grant them five
minutes* with his whiskers and the roots of his hair.
Meanwhile Donnelly ii on the road to Rio.
The literary slangwhanging match between Robert
Buchanan and George Moore has culminated in a libel-
action arising out of a letter written by Buchanan to the
Era. Here is his concluding sentence dealing with the
Moore Brothers and the Hawk:— “These Siamese twins
of the literary gutter are prepared, for a modest fee, to
say anything, to praise or abuse anything or anybody, to
become anything. I could buy the one with a few glasses
of strong drink, which would flow into the common cir-
culation and so appease the other; I could have purchased
PHOTO. BY TUTTLE.
MR. HARRY RICKARDS’,
As Adolphus Lavender (the wallet de sham) in his soreming Vaudeville,
“IN A FOG.”
the other, body and soul, by befriending him at the stage-
door, and thus his brother in blood and banality would
have been purchased, too. . . The pity is that the
ways of the yahoo are still possible, even in the lowest
depths of journalism.” “Gus” Moore has entered an
action against Buchanan and the publisher of the Era,
meanwhile the latter has another veiled dig at him in the
Fortnightly.
“Johnny” Solomon’s creditors have accepted a
compo. of 6s Bd. in the £. Too many irons, &c.
Mr. Rip Van Winkle M’Wade has returned to the
States. He says he thought Australia was larger than it
is. Nasty, this.
Little Fanny Robina, a good singer- and a bright little
actress, has replaced the,blood-poisoned Violet Cameron,
a very poor actress, in the pantomime at Her Majesty’s,
London.
Elizabeth Robins, the Kentucky actress, has taken
London by storm. Thus a critic;—“She appeared far
too fragile and imaginative to be American—at least as
we understand the word. Soft waves of rich chestnut
hair, parted in the centre, rested gently on a low but
broad white forehead.; eyes too sympathetic to be blue,
too beautiful to be-grey, gleamed beneath dark, straight
brows ; the colour of the face and hair were repeated in
the tint of a brown velvet robe, loose at the throat, with
broad collar, under which was knotted a white silk
scarf.” .. . ■ ,
Miss Marion Willis is slowly making her way to Mel-
bourne from Sydney with her “ Man to Man.”
The N.Z. press avers that George Darrell has scored the
biggest hit of his life with his new drama, “The Pakeha,”
which recently dCbuted in Wellington. George has
crammed his play chock-full of “hair-raisers;” he has
given ’em murders in Dunedin, marriage and divorce in
Christchurch, earthquakes, seduction, hurricanes, and
other high winds in Wellington, and gold robberies and
bushranging, fire and gore and fury, arson, blood-and-
thunder, sudden death and forked lightning on the West
Coast. As “The Pakeha” is to loom upon the Australian
theatrical horizon, there is something left to live for (or
die of) yet.
Mr. Benson, an actor, son of the Archbishop of Canter-
bury, has taken the Globe Theatre, London. He began
under Irving, but afterwards went starring in the pro-
vinces where his Hamlet is highly esteemed. Walter
Bentley, another tragedian, is son of the late Presbyterian
Dr. Begg, the biggest foe of the drama in Scotland.
Benson’s father gets £15,000 a year. This is better than
the drama. Ask Miln. Some of the good Archbishop’s
savings may Ultimately g 6 into" management;
The venerable Benham, now a checktaker at Melbourne
Alexandra, was one of Lyster’s old chorus. A grandly-
drilled body it was. From it emanated Farley, Forde,
Ida Osborne, Bessie Royal, Gordon, and other good
soloists. Amid the time-honoured choristers were John-
son, Ingmire, Ewart, Levison, Bachrach, and a score of
good men, well posted up in all the round of Italian and
English Opera, able even to dive into such works as the
“ Prophete,” “ Africaine,” “ William Tell,” ami the other
masterpieces. Bonham and others got their grounding aS
the Royal Italian Opera, London. Bill Lyster used to say
“ My passion is grand opera.”
“ The real shining light of the Darrell C 0.,” writes a
N.Z. correspondent, “ is Miss Maude Appleton, who will
come out as a star shortly, if she does not get her head
swelled like certain other people.”
Madame Victorina, a lady athlete, now showing in Lon-
don, throws 561 b. weights about with ease, exercises
with 1751 b. dumb-bells, raises 4001 b. with her teeth, and
aHows a 6001 b. cannon to be fired from her shoulders.
She has a medal from the Athletic Club, Stettin, for
raising 12001 b. As Victorina is pleasing to look on and
well-formed, she is a bigger draw than either Sampson ot
Sandon. Probably this is the Madame Victoria who was
here with Cooper and Bailey 12 years ago.
The name of Haddon Chambers’ new play, rejected b\
Mrs. Langtry, is “The Bouquet.” Not the first bouquet
which a woman has rejected. The Lily’s complaint is that
her role is not sufficiently “ fat.”
Alice Gomes, the Florida half-caste nightingale, whose
sympathetic singing of “ Home, Sweet Home” with tears
in the voice gave half London the sniffles, has melted them
again with “ Kate O’Shane.” A London critic says “ A
thrill went through the hall. We have no other voice just
now in England like it —although that rich oily quality is
not uncommon amongst the cigar-girls in Florida, so thej
say.”r~ _
When R. S. Smythe brings Brigand Stanley to Austral it
we must bill him as the champion worm. Thus Stanlej
to Emperor William : —“I remember gratefully the hospi
tality and princely courtesy shown Jo me in Potsdam ii
1885, and I am now profoundly impressed with you
Majesty’s condescension, goodness and gracious welcom *
on my return from Africa. With sincere heart I sai,
‘ Long live the noble Kaiser Wilhelm the Second.’ ”
Bumach’s dramatisation of Zola’s “ Germinal ” has bet a
produced at the Theatre Maliere, Brussels, with gee it
success. From the great speech of Souvarine, the
Nihilist, we cull the following thrilling clause : “ V m
will never be worthy of happiness while you hi ve
something belonging to yourselves, and while y air
hatred of the capitalists proceeds from your mad w ish
to be capitalists in their stead. Yeu’ll all be moved
down, overthrown, flung to pollution. He will arise, the
one who will annihilate you, race of cowards and pleas ire-
seekers I And, look you, behold my hands well; if they
had the power they would take the earth like this, uid
shake it till it crumbled to dust, so that all of you mi /ht
be buried beneath it.”
This duet (between the Duke and Duchess of Plaza-Ti rc
in Gilbert and Sullivan’s new opera, “The Gondoliers ’"
■ is understood by the very best people of Potts Point ai d
Toorak to be a cowardly attack on the Duke and Duchess
of M
Duch. I present any lady
Whose conduct is shady
Or smacking of doubtful propriety—
Duke. Doubtful propriety.
Ducn. When Virtue w r ould quash her,
I take and whitewash her,
And launch her in first-rate society—
Duke. First-rate society!
Duch. I recommend acres
Of clumsy dressmakers —
Their fit and their finishing touches—
Duke. Their finishing touches.
Duch. A sum in addition
They pay for permission
To say that they make for the Duchess—
Duke. They make for the Duchess !
Ducn. At middle-class party
I play at Ccart6 —
And I’m by no means a beginner—
Duke ( significantly ). She’s not a beginner.
Duch. To one of my station
The remuneration —
Five guineas a night and my dinner—
Duke J And wine with her dinnw.
Duch. I write letters blatant
On medicines patent—
And use any other you mustn’t—
Duke. Believe me you mustn’t—
Ducn. And vow my complexion
Derives its perfection
From somebody’s soap, which it doesn't—
Duke ( significantly ). It certainly doesn’t.
At present Sydney is full of actors and theatrical agents.
Charles Warner has arrived from New Zealand; Blanc
Holt from Queensland. By the way, it is said that the
great high-priest of melo-drama travels with three hun-
dred tons of scenery. He gives the bushies as good a
spectacular drama as folks get in London or Paris and
' much better than most of the displays in the largest
American cities.
Harold Ashton tells us that Frank Clark is on his way
here from America with a very strong variety company.
Lots of folks will be glad to see Frank.
A contemporary earnestly advises parents to cultivate
their daughters’ understandings and fit them well for
their places in the world. Yes, cultivate their under-
standings, and they may make a good living just standing
' round in comic opera and lavender tights some day.
E. C. Dunbar is “stunning them” at the London
Trooadero.
The unobtrusive Harry Rickards, whose portrait ap-
pears elsewhere, was an engineer in his youth. Becoming
' stage-struck, he made his first appearance as the Dougal
Cratur in Rob Roy, when he was “made-up” with red
, lead and oil —a mixture that adhered to him for days.
After long trying, he was engaged at Wilton’s music-hall
in ’6B at £2 per week, where he showed such marked pro-
mise that he was speedily engaged by Charles Morton for
the Alhalnbra at a salary of £2O, having risen to the posi-
tion of a star performer in a few months after his debut.
In ’72 he toured Australia and New Zealand, assisted
by Lizzie Watson and Dick Ramsden, and then, after
opening the Apollo Hall in Melbourne, made for San
Francisco, and while touring America en route for England
met and married Mrs. Rickards. After playing in all the
leading music-halls and most of the chief provincial
theatres and taking a trip to South Africa, Harry re-visited
Australia in ’B5, and, after a two years’ stay, returned
“ heme,” whence he brought his present company in ’BB.
Mr. Rickards returns to England in July in order to
secure the constant appearance of new performers at the
Sydney theatre, which, before long, will have been
erected for him, it being his intention to settle down in
Australia (he has secured a fine mansion at Randwick), the
birthplace of his wife and youngest child. Mr.
avowed intention is to “purify and refine the music-hall.”
What shall we say in praise of Marshall’s
Tonic Nervine? Only that there are no words in
the English language that adequately describe it.
Mr. Garland, M.P., stated at the Sydney
Single-tax symposium that Henry George shone
chiefly as a debater, and that he fairly wiped the
platform with Samuel Smith, M.P., and Socialist
Hyndman. In the latter case this was not made
apparent in the lengthy newspaper reports which
reached Australia. From these it seemed that
Hyndman quite held his own.
Jules Joubert’s costume at the N.Z. Gover-
nor’s fancy dress ball was “a fine white flannel
to imitate armour, stamped with views of the
Exhibition ; on his head a model of the Exhibition
dome, Union Jack and ah * and he bore a shield
bearing three British lions with portraits of
Messrs. Roberts, Twopenny and .Toubert (shades
of Bottom !) let into their heads.” The once astute
Joubert is evidently going into the circus business.
He should cable to Barnum, whose nigger clown
has just pegged out from a determination of
British beer and Xmas pudding to the head.
According to a speech made by John
Burns at a London bakers’ demonstration fowls
had been found roosting above some of the baking-
troughs. In another place horses Were tied up in
a corner of the bakehouse. Sewage was found
percolating through the stables and running
under the bottom of the sacks of flour where there
were also rotten potatoes and yeast —which was
due to the fact that the overworked men had no
time to clean up the place. A tray-full of bread
had been left to cool on the top of an open
sewer. “These,” said Burns, “were not the
‘ ravings of a frenzied demagogue,’ but the official
report of H.M.’s inspector.”


WOLFE’S SCHNAPPS!
Be on your guard for Frauds when purchasing.
The Great Eastern Co., Gympie, have sent
£lOO,OO0 4 in dividends to England since the trans-
fer of the mine to English shareholders.
A piece of freehold land in Lombard-
street, London, 20ft. by 30ft. lately sold fur
£70,000. In New York tip top corner blocks are
worth £l4O the sauare for
Milking the Government-
THE STORY OF A TITLE.
How Mr. Geo. Ganway lived was a mystery.
He followed no ostensible pursuit. In a vague
way he styled himself sometimes agent and some-
times broker, but for what or for whom he was
agent Heaven only knows. He maintained a neat
little suburban house, and although occasionally
very hard-up, he always managed, somehow, to
right himself in the end. He had many patrons,
that is to say, there were not a few persons who were
willing to look at anything good he had to show
them, and if the thing were really good and his
patrons speculated, Ganway was usually a few
pounds richer thereby. Though he scorned not
the smallest gratuity, his ideas were large and his
thoughts constantly on the watch for a big thing
and some one to take it up. The big things were
plentiful, but, though willing enough to profit by
the smaller matters he presented to them none of
his patrons had yet been induced to take up the
larger speculations. Yet Ganway’s enthusiastic
soul never despaired. He was always on the
point of making his fortune, always ready to seize
the chance which never seem to turn up.
* * *
Mr. Ganway was married, and his wife’s
brother, Johnny Hall, had the greatest admiration
for his sister’s husband. Hike many another
country-bred youth, Johnny had no trade, and
when he was compelled to shift for himself,
thought he was very lucky to get a job as a
labourer with a railway-surveyor. He was a
steady chap and soon managed to learn the
mysteries of chaining and holding the level-staff,
and so contrived to get fairly constant employ-
ment. At the time we write of, he was engaged
in the final staking out of the proposed Home-
bush-Waratah railway, and it was from one of
Hall’s letters to his sister that Ganway got a big
idea. The letter spoke of the district they were
then surveying, of the enhanced value which
would accrue to the adjacent country if the rail-
way were constructed, and of the difficulty which
the surveyor's had in finding o”* the owner* of
several fine tracts of land.
* * *
The idea was fructified in nis mind, with
the result that Ganway took an early opportunity
of looking up his brother-in-law. Their chat was
long and confidential, and its immediate outcome
was a visit which Mr. Ganway made to his chief
patron—oxre Phillpot, a George-street publican.
Phillpot found Ganway harder to deal with than
usually happened. The latter reckoned he had a
good thing, and was not disposed to part with his
information lightly. At last they came to an
agreement, that if the information turned out
valuable, and Phillpot took the matter up, Gan-
way was to have one-third of the profits made.
The idea was this : Hall was to keep his brother-
in-law informed of any parcels of vacant land
which the Government would be compelled to ac-
quire ; these would be examined and valued by
Ganway and the owners discovered —if possible,
he was also to get the land put under offer for a
week or fortnight. Hall was instructed not to
trouble occupied land, as it was not unreasonably
argued that as the staking out of the line was
known to all who lived along the route, it was
more than likely resident owners would ask so
high a price for this ground as to leave too small a
margin to recompense the purchasers for their
trouble. Ganway received several letters from
Johnny Hall, each necessitating a visit to the
railway-camp. These visits had at last a definite
result, for a fine block of land was discovered,
whose owner had not been near it for 12 or 13
years, and as it happened this very land was re-
quired for a station and would probably be all re-
sumed. Here was an opportunity for Ganway to
show his brains. With diligence he followed up
every clue, and was at length rewarded by dis-
covering that the land stood in the name of Peter
O’Heir, of Pyrmont. Having ascertained so
much, the next step was to have the land valued,
and then for Mr. Phillpot to see it. This gentle-
man highly approved of the land, and both he and
Ganway considered it worth £4OOO at least ; ac-
cordingly, Ganway was authorised to see the
owner and offer him any sum not exceeding £4200.
*' * *
Peter O’Heir was dead. He had died in-
testate, without children, and, as far as was
known, save his wife, without relatives. At his
death, therefore, the land passed to Mrs. O’Heir,
who obtained the necessary letters of administra-
tion. Mrs. O’Heir was also dead and had be-
queathed the property to her sister, Mrs. Martha
Parker, who resided on the Liverpool Road, near
Bankstown. All this Ganway discovered and lost
no tune in hunting up Mrs. Barker. That
dowager would do nothing without her son’s ad-
vice, and to him therefore Ganway was referred.
When he found the son, Ganway thought he was
the most stupid owl it had ever been his lot to
stumble across. However, Young Barker pro-
mised to see his mother, and recommended Gan-
way to call upon her in a few days. The young
man was not by any means so dull as he pretended
to be : indeed, as events proved, he was quite
equal to Mr. Ganway in some matters. He was,
moreover, in the habit of visiting the land from
time to time, though not ostensibly as owner, and
his estimate of the value of the block was much
the same as Ganway’s. Moreover, he knew about
the contemplated resumption, and the mask of
stupidity was assumed to hide an idea which he
wanted to work off.
* * #
When young Barker saw his mother he
gave her explicit instructions by which she was to
be guided in dealing with Ganway. These were
that she should sell for not less than £3500 cash ;
that she was not to allow the deeds out of her
possession, though the intending purchasers or
their lawyers could inspect them at her house and
make extracts from them if they deemed such ad-
visable ; that there was to be a contract for sale in
which the purchasers bound themselves to accept
the title which the vendors had to give. If they
did not like these conditions, negotiations were to
cease. Ganway was not a little surprised at the
old woman’s caution, though he admitted it was
commendable. He first offered £2500 for the land,
and after long argument he obtained the offer of
it for £3soo—such offer to be open for a fortnight.
After consultation with Phillpot it was agreed to
accept the offer, provided the title on examination
proved good. Accordingly, old Mr. Moxham, who
then acted as Phillpot’s legal adviser, went out to
Bankstown and perused the deeds, which were
deemed perfectly satisfactory. The contract for
sale was then drawn up by young Barker, that
is to say that young man produced a document
which Ganway and Phillpot signed, after consult-
ing their solicitor. The next step was to" have
the conveyance duly executed and the purchase
money of £3500 handed over. The receipt set
forth that the amount of purchase money was
£5OOO, young Barker consenting to the fiction for
a douceur on his own account. Both Phillpot and
Ganway were very proud of their share in the
affair, and chuckled at the easy manner in which
they had circumvented the old woman, in spite of
her son’s affected sharpness. They reckoned that
they had already made £7OO, being the difference
between what they had paid and what they were
willing to have paid for the land. The convey-
ance was in Ganway’s name, but Phillpot held
the deeds, as also a declaration of trust, executed
by his confrere. As the party to be victimised was
the Government a further conveyance was soon
afterwards made out, from Ganway to Phillpot,
the consideration being set down as £5750.
* * *
After about six months’ delay the usual
proclamation, ending up with the mystic words
“By his Excellency’s command, God Save the
Queen, ” was issued and the land became vested in
the State for railway purposes. As Ganway had
foreseen, the department resumed the whole block.
Claims for compensation were invited from those
whose lands were taken, so Phillpot had to con-
sider what sum he should claim for his block.
After no little uncertainty the sum decided upon
was £6325, being the £5750 paid, on paper, to
Ganway _ with 10 per cent, added for forced sale.
When his claim was lodged Phillpot considered
he had done a very fine thing, since he had as
good as netted £2BOO. He made no deduction in
his calculations on account of Ganway’s interest
such was needless, as he had no intention of pay-
ing him anything. When Ganway mildly hinted
that, for form’s sake, in case either of them should
die* it would be well there should be a declaration
yy\ r A v e l£o,u ‘b
' \ M v ecboul2
/„ Mllllllllii «
U FV>
ovnOW■ cm Ap '''Tvlr~-| e dc\
pla ce iA/^7€jie__Jku-e-e-a-Ti
•' • n \o v -tuppence
in writing to the effect that he was entitled to one-
third of the sum realised by the sale of the land
over and above the £3500 originally paid to Mrs.
Barker, Phillpot haughtily enquired if Ganway
considered him a rogue. After this Phill-
pot grew very distant towards his former hench-
man, until at last he ceased to notice him.
Ganway, of course, rightly considered he had
been got at, and naturally determined to have his
revenge. So, without much ado, he went to the
Government land-valuer’s office and made a state-
ment of the whole transaction, the circumstances
of which were carefully noted for future use.
* * #
As is customary in cases where the Govern-
ment acquire land f rsm private persons, the
owners are required to send abstracts of their
titles to the Crown Solicitor, to be by him perused,
and if found correct the amount of valuation
awarded by the Department for whom the re-
sumption is made is offered. If the proffered
valuation be not accepted, the owner is at liberty
to seek a remedy by arbitration. In this case the
valuer set down the land as worth £4lOO, to which
was added £4lO for forced sale, making the sum
which the railway would pay £4510. When
Phillpot became aware of the amount offered he
swore consumedly, pointing out how he had
actually paid £5750 for what £4510 were now
offered. But the valuer smiled a smile, so serene
and child-like that Phillpot concluded Ganway
had carefully “put him away,” and when a few
days afterwards he met his quondam associate,
that personage made no secret of what he had
done. The difference between £4510 offered and
the £3500 paid was still a very good reward for so
a risk, and Phillpot determined to accept the offer
and avoid litigation, especially as he would appear
in a very bad light under cross-examination.
* * #
But the offer was conditional on the title
proving correct, and the legal part of the matter
was yet to be completed. Great, then, was
Phillpot’s astonishment, on receiving a summons
from his solicitors, Messrs. Gunn and Cannon—
Moxham, his former adviser, having departed to
warmer quarters in another sphere—to learn that
the Crown law officers had determined that his
title was incomplete. According to their view,
when Peter O’Heir died intestate and his wife
administered to the estate, she was only entitled
to one-half the real estate of her husband, the
other moiety going to the next of kin, or, in
default, to the Government. Consequently,
when Mrs. O’Heir died, although she devised the -
land to her dearly beloved sister, Martha Barker,
she could legally only bequeath what she herself
possessed, that is one-half, and Mrs. Barker could
only legally sell the same to Phillpot. The
Government therefore could only pay him the sum
of £2255, being one-half the amount of the valua-
tion. Phillpot did not give up without a struggle.
He obtained counsel’s opinion, and was advised
that the decision of the Government was good
law and he had no claim for anything beyond the
sum stated..
# # #
Ganway likes to tell his friends how Phill-
pot was “syndicated” by young Barker, and
chuckles over the fact that had the crafty publican
been an honest man, there might possibly have
been an agreement by which Ganway would have
been called upon to pay one-third of the £1245
which was lost in the attempt to milk the Govern-
ment cow.
HENRY SIEVER.
How wisely Nature, ordering all below,
, Forbade a beard on woman’s chin to grow;
For tiow could she be shaved (whate’er the skill),
Whose tongue would never let her chin be still ?
John Jones, ex-clerk to the Empire Building
Society (Melb.), is cursing the hour when he took
up a responsible position in that grand institution
at a weekly salary of eighteen shillings. Finding
that his balance at the bank wasn’t increasing by
leaps and bounds, young John endeavoured to
better himself by annexing a bonus of £l2OO and
setting forth upon a European tour. The Nemesis
which generally overtakes underpaid clerks
swooped down upon John at Sues, where he was
arrested and dumped into a pestilential lock-up
along with eighteen Arabs (each Arab represent-
ing a shilling of the poor fool’s weekly wages),
who had never washed themselves in the course of
their unnatural lives. For three months Jones
repented of his sin in this earthly paradise, await-
ing deliverance in the form of a Melbourne detec-
tive. _ According to the detective’s plain,
unvarnished tale there were large, savage-
looking vermin crawling about John Jones, and
the aroma of his temporary confinement was
calculated to kill a bull-pup at fifteen paces. After
being washed, scraped, and disinfected, the rem-
nants of John’s early manhood were brought
back to Melbourne, in which city he now stands
committed to take his trial on February 3rd. He
has pleaded guilty, so nothing really remains but
to apportion the just reward of John’s misdeed.
Meantime he is hoping that the Criminal Court
will take into merciful consideration the high time
he had at Suez and let him off with four floggings
and 50 years’ solitary confinement in Sheol, where
he may gradually forget the 18 noisome Arabs and
recover from the ravages of those Gargantuan
crawling things. cannot conclude this narra-
tive without remarking that it is better to be a
filthy noble lord, implicated in a Cleveland-street
club scandal than an onterurising Melbourne
clerk at 18 shillings a week.
Praying for Rain.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
If not in Sheolit was in the Northern “Never
Never,” from which so few return models of
sobriety. Dry, sunburnt, grassless, moistureless,
except for local dews shed by Hennessey and
Usher, a pitiless sun beat down from a cloudless
sky on the bald-headed and hairy-faced divines
who lived to “prey,” For two years not a drop
of rain had fallen, and lambs on the neighbouring
runs were well nigh as scarce as lambs of gospel
faith. So murmurs arose and demands were made
for special prayer for rain, which calls, under one
pretence or another, were resisted until the wily
priests thought it about a fair thing that rain
should fall. Now there were, for it was a rich
pastoral and mining district, quite a number of
of divines. First and foremost came Father
O’Baulkem, good at a hand of cards or a
horse deal, who, by virtue of his ancient faith,
claimed precedence, prayed ang-rily for rain and
signally failed. Then followed an itinerant
gospel-grinder of some unaccredited form of
dissent, who also, but not likewise, prayed and
equally failed ; after whom succeeded a hierarchy
of ecclesiastical charlatans of no recognised church
or audible aspirates. But the representative of
the Church of England in apostolic succession as
in Australasia duly established craftily lay low,
till each day at sundown the horizon was illumined
with flashes of lightning, thunder ominously
growled, and clouds gathered to disperse in ve«ing
storms of wind. Then, with due solemnity, he
announced that a special service of prayer would
be held, at which he would pray for the life-giving
fluid. But, lo and behold !on the instant came a
summons to celebrate a lucrative marriage, the
shekels contingent upon which ceremony were
sufficient to cast aside all other considerations.
Now it was an established custom in that quarter
for the P.M. to read prayers in the absence of the
accredited minister of the Church of England, and
the P.M., then stationed there was no slouch of a
P.M. and had watched the progress of the “ pray
as you please ” rainmakers with great interest.
So, seizing the occasion of the parson’s absence, he
formulated a special prayer of his own modelled
upon a summons in Petty Sessions, assembled and
intercalated the same for service at that point of
the Church ceremonial where the plate goes
round. The P.M. being provided for on the
yearly Estimates, the cautious congregation failed
to ante-up in the absence of their clergyman, and
the offering was restricted to a beggarly
array of one button, contributed by an
aboriginal stockrider, and a Yankee dime,
fromlan anonymous donor. Nathless, the P.M.,
commenced his prayer, in which he took unusual
pride as composer, when, strange to say, the wind
rose, clouds of dust careered wildly about and--
yes—decidedly yes—one, two, quite a spattering of
heavy rain-drops sounded on the corrugated iron
roof of the sacred building. Hungry Boko, a
neighbouring wall-eyed squatter of countless flocks,
cocked a surprised eye at the ceiling, wonderment
was expressed in every face, but the P.M. was equal
to the occasion, for he paused, and, beckoning to
the verger, told him in a stage whisper to pass the
plate around again and that the price of an inch
of rain was fifty pounds—much needed to keep
it out of the building should it fall. This
not being forthcoming, the P.M. irreverently
gabbled the balance of his invocation in an in-
audible tone, so that the rain-cloud drifted away
and old Hungry Boko drove home cursing. But
the parson, on his return, was pleased, for if the
prayer had been completed and the rain had
obeyed an unprofessional call, his discharge was
certain, and the P. M., emboldened by success,
might have embarked upon what Billy Little calls
the sky-pilot business.
Albuminuria
is one of the most deadly complaints that attack
debilitated constitutions. Owing to over exertion
and over consumption of nerve force, the system
becomes gradually weakened and relaxation sets
in. The thin membranes of the kidneys are the
first to go, and medical authorities state that 50
per cent, of the deaths, nowadays, occur indirectly
from Bright’s Disease though the patients and
their medical advisers never even suspected the
presence of such a deadly foe. The function of
the kidney is to separate the waste fluids from the
blood, to purify it, and this process is carried on
by what is termed by physiologists, “osmosis.”
In weakened systems the membranes become re-
laxed, and the albumen of the blood finds its way
with the waste fluids through the kidney walls,
and passes from the body with the urine; the
patient’s health and strength thus gradually failing.
Beyond the presence of albumen in the water,
Albuminuria has not any positive symptoms ; but
general weakness, which always leads to these
serious disorders, always signifies its presence by
special signs, you may get headache, spasmodic
toothache, torturing neuralgia, pain in small of
the back, disinclination to work, heavy, aching
limbs on waking in the morning, bloodshot eyes,
poor appetite, or constipation. These warning
symptoms must not be neglected, or as sure as a
rat hole will sink a ship, so sure will the patient’s
life be sacrificed. The remedy indicated is
Clements’ Tonic, this will restore all organs to a
proper, healthy state, and ensure correct per-
formance of the process of digestion, assimilation,
perspiration, secretion and elimination; Clements’
Tonic has a record of cures effected such as no
other medicine ever secured, and we are willing to
prove our representations by outside evidence.
Mr. Thomas Garrett, M.P., in speaking of our
remedy says : “He has taken Clements’ Tonic
with very great advantage.”
T. Walker, Esq., M.P., says : “I have derived
great benefit from its mental ancb physical re-
cuperative properties. ”
W. H. East, Esq., “Stanthorpe,”Dulwich Hill,
says: “I took three bottles of Clements’ Tonic
and am wonderfully improved, and have had no
return of the excruciating headaches since taking
it.” y
Mr. W. D. Braham, the crack tailor of King-
street, Sydney, speaks of it in the highest terms of
praise.
Sydney Cunningham, Esq.. 71 Watkin-street,
Newtown, says: “He and his family have used
Clements’ Tonic with great success, and strongly
recommend it.”
Mrs. George Hilliard, King-street, Newtown,
writes that she has given it a fair trial, and can
testify to its great value.
We shall be glad to furnish sufferers with the
names and addresses of scores of our patrons who
have derived great benefit from our wonderful
ramedy on application to E. M. Clements New-
town, N.S.W,


gf
g
'fCelebrated
m
' v m a.
'mmfxmssiy
oft l i , B. WHEELER & C?
Softcna tcatllct
aiTSi
i cm 3 c\<xc?U).
f
Cl&vo Uit
I’ cM n t
jjo-V 1 1 cj1 1 (xi :c ( e/>
liofcoctfo of
F* B* WHEELER & C0 M
265 Clarence Street, SVI»\KV.
Personal Items.
Emin Pasha, says the Hawk, was washed
out of that window by champagne.
Sydney E. News writes about Benjamin
“ Franklyn.” It doesn’t even know how to spell
his name.
Not one man ranking as a loader, either in
intellect or social influence, in New York, was
born in that city.
Talmage has been preaching on the widow’s
cruse in the exact words of a lay sermon delivered
by Laurence Sterne over 100 years ago.
Mr. Imperial M.P. Cox is slightly in error.
Thomas Davis (of the Nation) was not a ’4B man
for the simple reason he was dead in ’45.
A Sydney Single-taxer talks of “Harry”
George. This is the typo of familiar person who
will call George an apostate before six months are
over.
Zola has given up water as well as wine
to become thin. Nevertheless, his latest work,
“The Human Animal,” has even more “body”
than usual.
Ninian Melville, speaking at the Natives’
Conference, said there was a desire to bury exist-
ing petty jealousies. Ninian cannot forget the
undertaking trade.
The Pope’s representative in New York,
has a law-suit on, and like a shrewd judge of
“ temporal affairs, ” he has retained Agnostic
Ingersoll as his attorney.
Old Sir John Robertson is to be entertained
at dinner by the Watson’s Bay people in recogni-
tion of his honourable career as a colonist. Well,
that is as good an excuse as any other.
By the death of Mr. C. R. M. Talbot,
member for Glamorganshire, who sat for 60 years
(and died worth five millions sterling) Mr. Glad-
stone becomes father of the Commons to which he
was elected 58 years ago.
“Canterbury” Hutchison has been suc-
ceeded as “ Grand Chief” of tho N.S.W. Good
Templars by Mr. N. Collins, of Gunning, an
American by birth, and Coroner for Yass. Tee-
total coroners are scarce.
Robert Buchanan, like all men, has a
weak spot for pretty women. The Age’s special
correspondent says that he told Myra Kemble at
a rehearsal —“Nearly everybody in the world
bores me, but you do not.” Yum-ynm 1
Mr. J. Sowden, President of the Austra-
lian Natives in Adelaide, is a Register sub-
editor who has risen from the printing-office. He
is politically ambitious, and may yet live to yell
“ You’re a liar ! ” in the S.A Assembly.
Victor Emmanuel, Prince of Naples, the
future Italian king, is about to visit Australia.
He is but 21 years of age, and Signor Crispi
wishes him to marry an Englishwoman. How-
ever, there are no princesses in Australia.
A writer in the Sydney Congregational
Church Magazine has appended his initials
“ R.H.W.” beneath “ Not Understood,” a poem
by Thomas Bracken recently re-published in The
Bulletin. The plagiarism was detected by Sir
George Grey.
Jos. Symes got hustled oa the Market
Green, Launceston, one Sunday not long ago—by,
it is said, the underlings of a holy man whose godly
practice it is to go hunting after dark with a
bull’s-eye lantern in the interests of social purity
among the parks of that city.
Frank Suttor, M.L.C., when in London,
saw some stockwhips—home-made—offered for
sale. He went in to price and examine, and was
told they were made after a 1 ‘ pattern ” procured
from Australia. Frank, who is an expert with
the whip, tried them, but they wouldn't crack.
It will be remembered that Rev. W. >S.
Greene some years ago performed some locally
unprecedented feats of mountain-climbing in New
Zealand. When Mr. Greene was asked if lie
had not named one of the peaks he scaled after
himself, he said : “No ; I couldn’t bring myself to
label any one of them ‘ The Greenhorn.’ ”
The members of the old strong Victorian
Bar of the 50’s are rapidly disappearing. Dr.
Mackay, who came in ’63 and was contemporary
with the great lawyers and “jurymen” of that
time, has just gone over at 74. Like Ineland,
Dawson, Aspinall, Dunne, Sewell, and other
great lights of the day, he was not a Blue Rib-
bonist.
Pullman fought manfully for three hours
to secure free passes for pressmen right through on
his cars. He was successful; Eddy was the first
to cave in. The shrewd Yankee says:—“l like
newspaper-men ; I dislike politicians. One intel-
ligent journalist is worth more to me and the
country than a whole Senate House.” Pullman
knows his way round. ,
Lucas, the Quaker, Gavan Duffy’s friend,
who went over to Rome and established The
Tablet, an organ of the English Catholics, soon
after his change of front met John Bright, who
exclaimed, “ Well, Friend Lucas, how dost thee
like thy new superstition ?” “ Why, Friend
Bright,” retorted Lucas, “I like it better than I
did our old hypocrisy.”
There is now in South Africa a young
gentleman who will cause some consternation
among the aristocracy when in years to come he
takes his seat in the Home of Lords. He is the,
possessor of fairly good estates and a respected”
title, but he has crisp curly hair, flattened nose,
protruding lips, and copper-coloured skin. In
fact, he is a half-caste Zulu.
Mr. “Jimmy” Ewen, of John Frazer
and Co., Sydney, has built and maintains, at his
own cost, at Emu Plains, a Home for Female
Convalescents. At a big Sydney Indian famine
meeting, many years ago, one man asked another
which he considered the best speech of the even-
ing. “John Frazer’s” was the reply—John
Frazer’s “ speech ” being a cheque for £5OO.
The venerable Dr. Adler, head of the
Jews, is dead, aged 92. What progress has been
made in his life ! The first great move in favour
of the Hebrews was when the Austrian Emperor
made two of the Rothschilds barons half a century
ago. Only about as recently the House of Com-
mons decided, by an overwhelming majority,
against the removal of the Jewish disabilities.
A Sydney daily says that Sir Charles Dilke
is “a Radical” still. That may be, but when we
last saw Dilke he was walking down Piccadilly.
At his heels was a magnificent liveried flunkey
six-feet-two high, and the flunkey’s task was tc
carry his master’s black bag, which weighed at
least a pound and a-quarter to a pound and
a-half. What sort of Radicalism comes out of a
Nazaretli of sawdust calves ?
. • -
Mr. A. Horn, M.P., accompanies
Govenor Kintore to Maori land. He and Kin-
tore are chums, which may in some degree be
owing to the alleged fact that Horn has put over
£50,000 into Kintore’s pocket lately by telling him
about good things in stocks. The firm of Horn
and Co., sharebrokers, recently dissolved, and it
is rumoured that tho brothers Horn divided be-
tween them over a million of money.
In the Contemporary, George Russell tells
a story of his uncle, Lord John Russell. Queen
Victoria once said to him: “We are told, Lord
John, that you hold that it is lawful for a subject
under certain circumstances to disobey his Sove-
reign, and we want to know if this is true.” To
which Lord John characteristically replied :
“Well, madam, speaking to a Sovereign of the
House of Hanover, I can' only say that I suppose
it is.”
On his death-bed, Heinrich Heine's said to
a pious friend that he longed to go out once more
if only on crutches. “Where would you go?”
said his comforter. “To church,” said he.
“THE CHILDISH BOAST OF HUMAN MIGHT AT THE PRIDE OF
HUMAN POWER.”
Scene, country pub., after wild racing (for gorgeous 12-shilling bridles, &c.).
SMALL MAN (whose head just appears above bar, orders long sleever): “WELL, I’M ONLY
AN ORNERY CUSS TO LOOK AT. IN FACT I’M ONLY THE HEIGHT
OF TWELVE LONG SLEEVERS: BUT I CAN SCOFF THIRTEEN ON
EM AS EASY AS KISSYERAND.”
“No ! would you? You jest !” said his friend
incredulously. To which the dying man satirically
replied : “ Of course--where else should a mango
on crutches ?” This story with the latter clause
deleted is now published by the clerical press as
proof of Heine’s recantation.
Mr. John Shearston, the honest and unsel-
fish seamen’s missionary, who has lost his voice,
goes to England, to try and regain i*. He was
originally employed in Sydney Mint, and has, for
the last 29 years, been devoted to the sailors. One
of the sights of Lower George street, Sydney, is
to see Shearston enter a public house- and emerge
with a drunken man-o’-war’s man on each arm.
These he carefully “shepherds ” to the ship, and so
saves them from punishment.
Apropos to the death of Martin Tupper, a
story is told of an inquisitive young countess who
pestered Tennyson as to which he considered his
finest poem. Tennyson said he had no choice,
and the lady rejoined : “ The Queen’s favourite is
‘ The Brook,’ you know. I heard Her Majesty
say so only yesterday.” “ Ah, indeed,” returned
the great Alfred, frowning. “ Well, I can’t say I
think much of Her Majesty’s taste in poetry, for
you know they say she admires Tupper !”
Of the late Sir Alexander Cockburn, who
was a great Counsel and leader of the- Common
Law Bar in England 40 years ago, an enthusiastic,
juryman once said (and his remarks in these days
of dry-as-dust advocates are worth reprinting)
' I have heard Sir Alexander in pretty nearly every part.
I have heard him as an old man and a young woman ; I
have heard him when he has been a ship run down at sea,
and when lie has been an oil-factory in a state of confla-
gration ; once, when I was foreman of a jury, I saw him
poison his intimate friend, and another time he did the
part of a pious bank-director in a fashion which would
have skinned the eyelids of Exeter Hall; he ain’t bad as
a desolate widow with nine children, of which the eldest
is under eight years of age, but if ever I have to listen to
him again t should like to hear him as a young lady of
good connection who has been seduced by an officer in the
Guards.
POLITICAL
POINTS
New Bankrupt—The N.S. W. Civil Service
; Superannuation Fund.
Reynolds’ dubs Chamberlain the Bou-
langer of English politics.
The batt'e-cry at next N.S.W. general
election will be the City and Foreign-trade versus
the Country and Native Industries.
The German Reichstag having by 71
votes rejected Bismarck’s anti-Soeial Bill, it has
been dissolved. As Bismarck says ; “ The clock
of the world moves on.”
The calibre of tho Australian Natives’
Association can no v be accurately measured. The
Natives have hum' ly asked Governor Hopetoun
to “ patronise” them.
Last fiscal year the U.S. receipts were
were nearly £11,500,000 over expenditure. In the
financial year ending June the surplus so far is
estimated at £0)000,000.
Ninian Melvillo was nearly leaving the
Australian Natives’ Convention in a flare of fury
because a rule had been passed limiting speakers
to h ilf-an-hour. They knew he was coming when
they made this rule.
The name of Higiubotham, occurring in
Dilke’s “Problem of Greater Britain,” recalls a
lost career, for what business had the pure and
brilliant man who could lead all Australian states-
manship, to bury himself in a Chief Justiciary?
Vincent Crummies was always puzzled
how these notices of his shows got into the papers.
.No doubt John Haynes will be equally surprised
at those eternal pars in Sydney News drawing
attention to the active, honourable and patriotic
efforts of the Member for Mudgee.
Out of an area of 1,885,537,120 acresVem-
braced in the five colonies forming the Australian
continent, nearly 89 million acres have been
alienated by the Crown. N.S.W. has alienated
42,385,244 acres, Victoria 22,493,013, Queensland
10.927,057, S. A. 10,780,708, and W.A. 2,270,676 ;
total 88,857,658 acres.
The Australian natives in Adelaide are
divided in opinion about titles. Some rejoice at
Sir John Bray’s recent appointment, and others
look upon it as the road to tine devil. The former
class, one regret's to find, seems in the ascendant,
and no doubt Gov. Kintore will judiciously
knight some of them to keep the pot boiling.
The Hunter River Miners’ Association
have decided that at the next Parliamentary elec-
tion two of the county (Northumberland) scats
and one of the seats for the city of Newcastle
shall be contested by candidates from the associa-
tion. Who will remain in for Northumberland—
Melville, Walker, or Greer ? Surely not the latter.
The good old Anglo-Saxon instincts of
grab are strong in Ninian Melville. He con-
siders the “yvhole of the South Sea Islands are
the property of Australia, and that steps should be
taken to secure them to the Anglo-Australian
race.” This puzzle-headed rubbish is an indirect
admission of the right of Britain to sovereignty
over Australia.
Berlin Post points out that a day would
be saved with the Australian mails by taking the
European route via Salonica instead of that via
Brindisi. The railway journey would be longer,
the saving would be in steaming on the Medi-
terranean. Doubtless the change will come round,
but, as yet, Turkey is a ticklish region, and the
Greek archipelago dangerous navigation.
The curate of Kingsland (London) has
refused at a cricket-club dinner to respond to the
toast of the Queen proposed by his boss, the local
vicar. Curate Johnson said he thought the time
had come when sensible people .could dispense
with the services of queens and kings ; and the
majority of the company being of the same opinion,
the toast was dropped with a dull sickening thud.
The latest raid on the N.S.W. Treasury
for the glorification of Sir Calabash Parkes consists
in the publication from the Government Printing-
office of a most expensively-got-up volume entitled
“United Australia” and consisting of excerpts
from the Hiuglish press and from such of the
Australian papers as happen just now to be
engaged in the good work of greasing the Prodigy^
Says Michael Davitt to the Parnell Com-
mission : -
As sure, my lords, as you sit there and listen to these
remarks of mine so surely do we know the names of the
persons who subscribed the money which Houstop gave
to Pigott, the amounts of the donations, and the dates on
which they were received. These things will all be made
public before long, and the parties will have to take the
consequences.
Had Portugal not given in, Premier Salis-
bury was going to steal from that helpless country
Delagoa Bay and Quillimane in Africa, the; Cape
Verde Islands. St. Vincent, and other Portuguese
possessions. England has now concluded an
arrangement with Germany that J. Bull ’ shall
. steal the African territory lately claimed by the
Portuguese, and that, as a set-off, Germany shall
be at liberty to burgle Zanzibar.
Parkin is in good form in London. He
stood on one leg at a recent meeting of the
Imperial Federation League and brought this off
his chest (we quote from the league’s organ):
1 only say that the more you study the question the
stronger it will appear, and that in passing this resolution
you are forming the embryo out of which is coming we do
not know what. (Cheers.)
This is the most lucid statement we have yet tiad
from the League.
One of Parkes’ curly-headed boys, Dr.
Camao Wilkinson, politically known as “Naiiey,”
is getting £250 Treasury money for inquiring dur-
ing his trip to Europe if the microbe of pleuro-
pneumonia has yet made its formal debut in
scientific society. When we again go “ home ”we
expect to receive £5OO for making a similar in-
quiry with respect to the microbe of Parkesiau
cast-iron impudence. The species of political
obliquity which induced Parkes to subsidise Ids
ex-fellow-director, Eyeglass Bailey, in some £250
for wagging his jaw in Hingland cries out loudly
for an antidote.
Following up that now memorable illumin-
ated Parliamentary address, transmitted with
such secresy to Mr. Gladstone for his birthday, a
convenient “ correspondent ” has tried, on behalf
of Parkes, to pump Gladstone upon the Aus-
tralian federation question. The old badger, how-
ever, refuses to be drawn. He says that Parkes’
action is “apparently judicious,” but being ignor-
ant of details he can say nothing definite. “Speak
mg generally, however, he has no doubt that the
Australian colonies will work their way to a just
conclusion in die matter.” The great man of
Hampton Villa won't get much change out of this
pronouncement.
Dr. Cockburn, Premier of South Australia,
is preparing a programme for submission to the
country in April next, and it is safe to say that its
leading features will effectually astonish the
native's. It is to him, in a large measure, that the
colony owes its present moiety of Protection,-for
he refused to join Mr. Downer’s Ministry five
years ago unless it was decided to introduce
additional customs duties on native products.
The tariff subsequently passed was the first
genuine advance towards the fair treatment o:
local growers and manufacturers. The doctor
thinks Victoria’s anxiety for “ Intercolonial Free-
trade ” is only a shrewd device to instal herself as
“manufactory” for Australia, and he conse-
quently makes no secret of his opposition td its
institution until South Australia is better able to
hold her own against outsiders.
Slade Murray, the Cockney canoodler,
tells a good yarn concerning his ballad ot Bala-
clava/’ which he wrote (chiefly with a pair, of
scissors) and composed with the help of a tin-
whistle. Slade, who was singing “ Balaclaya ”
with great success at London Pavilion, one night
received an invitation to a box; on his entering
which a white-haired, poker-backed gentleman
introduced himself as General Sir George Womb-
well, and his companions as Lords Fife and Lur-
gan, and then went on to say : “ I have sent; for
you. Mr. Muwway, in wefewence to. youah song of
’Balaclava,’ which I have now heard you sing
fouah times. You say ’Four hundred gallant Eng-
lishmen fell fighting wheah they stood.’ That, sir,
is incorrect. I took part in that charge, and
allow me to tell you, sir, that we nevah stood, sir,
nevah, but rode like Hell.” “ Rode” was substi-
tuted for “ stood ” on the following evening.
Mr. Stephen Freeman, one of the members
of the N.S.W. Land Court, has had much experi-
ence amongst backblockers, and can scent a
“dummy” in a crowd. While presiding at a
Court out West one day, a selector applied to
have a little patch of 40 acres “confirmed.” “Are
you,” blandly enquired Mr. F., “are you related
to Mr. ?” (the owner of the run.) “Is it me
related to ould Tom ? Bedad, I’ve come low
enough to select on him, but I’m not blaggard
enough to be related to him ! Related to him,
indade!” Which bit of bluff took the wily
Stephen off his guard and the “ little patch ” was
allowed —only to be in time transferred by the
indignant selector to old Tom aforesaid.


'V j-'J f)
j^arlives-@. n w ft batf.^eU-
j3oc--DKys" lN
" /^ef^oors|e
fo»* c*
e ro [
T*-*,
TV
i g. k ]3ays.
' s"‘]*B ra f '5 A|?j ;r >
Australia belonged to the natives
{__<_« u b» n <?-
Peaco c
Ew&L/VMD
WAR
vy « »
7~ORTU <i A |_
Effect of Oro+ory on tbs
popfers
, and was there a man present who
wouki refuse to give his last .shilling and drop
of blood to defend* the laud that gave him
birth ? (Hear, bear.) I
rV/nos if
re~e»f 170+ t*f
c.o<yfc »° e nee
* . . “Vitbout mentioning any „ ar .'
Ocular Australian born minister of the i{uj ltc l
he stated unhesitatingly that they com. •unci
favorably with those in any other ‘ , art
of the world. —=» _ (
Nl NIAN
Melville
of
Some] off the
greatest changes that had ever taken 'plane in
Australia sprung from very smarll
1
Mr. Melville said this assemblage would leave
upon t!ie pages of history belonging to the
future Australian nation a memorable mark
Wb ere is» +F« C ctp I\o I i o (3 {
Our [«ff if)e divj^ior?
AT THE “ NATIVES’” CONFERENCE.


! SFumq our
Oi] account of
0f a
duller it]
,fdn)bu.cToo !{
B a pc a < >vs
SSILILW& &IFIF!
Ott Ctccounl'oj
IA/£$T END
SCANDAL
CLfi&
5/J
UN I'
G iv
I ;o*s
it
GREAT CLEARANCE S'A/.E
Of S/YOf-ivO/ZA/
OAI AC C a OA/r Of
7?ECF/Vr /YA/LSTOR.T?
:i . A AsO TA/jF
London Voce STej/t^f
BA/?CAMS ' SARC/A/S."
ToAJu '//OTiy/7 v» C&ASS
"'Y/5 J-- /g r/t-AC&S* A
3M&D&D&E V.
(jtiAccoum of
rfif/lISES POWN
rfe fP/DE/ytc °E
/^SBf'SWZ&
/M ycoy
* fewy-Wjioj m 3
6
Spa S'S ?~<?s,
THE DAIL
Hr. Eugene Croft. Mrs 1 . W. Wood Cater, the DI
and Mabel Cater, Mrs. Edward Campbell, Miss Camp-
bell, Miss Cohen, Miss Maude Cohen, tyiss Cohem, Mr.
George J. Cohen/Mrs. G«eorge I. Cohen, Miss Cohen,
Mrs. • Holford Cowles. "Mr. J. G. Coombes,
JHr. nod Mrs. Ford Otowell, Miss Ford Cowell,
.Mr. W. G. Corston. Mrs, E. W. Crack-
Miss Cocks, Mr. B. Cocks, Mr. J. C. Cox,
Mrs. P. and Miss Annie Coll ins,-P. 3. ChaAtnaV B. S.
aChapman, Miss F.. B. Clune, Miss Curley, taptaito and
Cavave. Dy. Clune,, Lieutenant Oa isdfll.VMr.
and Mrs, J. A. B. Cahill, Miss Julie Cohet, M ■«. AO.
'Chalmers, Mr. Julius Caro. Mr. and £is< Cekil
Cowper. Mfed M. Il Cbwper, Mr. J. C. G un hwarcL
; Dr. and Mrs Collins, Miss B. Cork, Hr. Walters
Choreb, Mr. and Mrs. Christie. Mrs. J. P Coyle,
M*. A. L. Hertz el £<>oko; Mr VV. H. Crag., M - H. A.
'Crane, Dr. W. R. Clay, Miss E. Coombes, A rs. Samuel
Cook, Misses Cook, Mrs. P. Coffey, Mr. 1. L, Coffey,
Jdiss Cook, Mr. P. J. Coghlan. Mrs-. Cuchow Misses
Curnow. Mr. Leslie Crurnow. Mrs. Jas. Coxco an. Mr.v
A. P. Clapin, Miss ' Alecia Caraber, Mrs. Albert
'Chapman. Mrs. O. J. Caraher, Mr. and Mra Fidderick
XJoofc, Mr. AndrC Conil. Mrs. W. R. Cial, Miss L.
Co.dc, Mr. and Mrs. Walter Church. Ciri, John
..Cclllos, Miss Crane. Mrs. K. T. Cacler. Miss |Carter.
>Mr. R. T. Carter, Miss Clark M iiSM? Clark., iMr. P.
Oovle, Miss Clark, Mrs. R. A. c/arkAMr.
fCJark, Lieutenant E. R. Connor./Miss Collins, Visse^
■Jampljall/i Mrs. .Alfred!
Mrsi J. joSfti^ell/
Miis
la m p b4l 1 . /As. (kdfrard
in xr^a m
MS
Dr. CooJlcatA
Pm\ J. KyClfiere, jun.A
Mus
r. and Mr/AV
Alderfn*fl>
Dean, Mrs. Dean, Misl^Davis, Mf. aud/Hrs.
Deane, Mrs DjanstanTMifir JacTNDe\n. Mrs.yßeo***
i)owne, Miss Davenpobt. Jamiß D'owe,’
Ella’s Davenport, uik -LAoes DavuJsbW. MJS. jamenj
" ve. Miss K. DditesWiss M.
• vio«. Miss David R. DUg,
Avles. M.L.C., MrpMij E. Dale. MrifJ. T. D^fa.
J. T. Dignabii ML. L. Dardenelli. Augustus
v F. W. D. and the Mibsei
Henry G. Bownraare, Mr/C.
id Mrs. *Mrgr Miss
Miss Mrfs Mrs.
*nd Masses Augustus
Miss Mrs. Drynam.
no Dillon, Mrs. Hui:h Duff
Arthur D*wiina#M«r Mugb Duff, Mrs. W.. \
■an. MisslF. llK)o/ie0BT. C. Seymour Dow-
a.. B. Aa u. Mr. and Mrs.Cp.
;r, /Mr. fend G.
ilh Mis. DunlonF Mrs. J.
thur^^ofWing,
i. E.
Mr. Wo /Mrs. R. JMouan. B ilriiristijld.
movvSjLthe MisAWDrewett/Mrl 7l K.
T. EJjXviea, Duviej* ilrs.
une, t/iO ilislet Ifne, Mis* DmAlddfc,
. 'DufT/jM itl fc. Aonaldsun/ Mrs#Phflb
o MrAnd Mrs./lenrf Dc-aneV
v tne, H- \vJ Delany,/ MrA Hugo'
.Jias Davis. D®ie# t M'/ W. XDilldn, I
Si. --'Julian Diilon, Mrs J. 1. DaceVVkfrs. •
Danvers. Mr. Hugo ftbms, Mrs. J. H.paries.
rMrs. J. Hugh Davßs. Mrs A. B. DinmlWw,
nvdell. Miss J. Dowdß, Mr f\hl. Daviesl
O .Vv Mrs. Hcl« D’AmierT Mr HenfT’"
•is. Mr-,. Uet/ry Jy DftielSjMli®
\ Drew. Mi-s> /. '1 B®W; I Mrs.
•o, Missr EiomcrtA Mr 0.1 C.
\ Mr. Phiup Dowifr
Charlel JAsCvers,
ix/n.l
C. and Mrs.
\ jtvy iiliHmß. tldreU, Aloli t Rlkiog-
Vim U. H. Kdoo, \£iss Bca-
J. C. EiniSColonol
' vlrs K^ifc^^lia^fcaVMrs,
Kogluud.
Thomas A. Edmeados,
,;, ‘chler. Dr. Owen
Frans, Mjss
• bere«le« •
B. J King, Mrs. Zing, the Mitftsa King, Mias King,
Mias Ada Kina, Miss B. jKerr, Miss Kerr,. Mr. H.
King, Mr*. fL, Kuontz, Mr. K. Kerr, Mr. and
Mrs. C. <H. Kfnder, Mr*. Kiulocb, Mr. J. Kinloch,
Mrs. J. F. King. Mr. and 'Mrs. M. H, Kelly, Misses
I Kerr, Mrs. L. H. Kelly, Mr. and Mrs.
ennedy. Miss' E. Keats. Mr. F. Kerri-
gan, Mr. and Mrs. W. Kenwood. Mrs.
ng. Miss Kyngdon.fDr; and Mrs. Kyng-
Miss Kiss, Dr. V. Kelly, Miss Kennedy
it. Mrs. KiUon, Mrs. A. E. Kendail.
iss K. Klppax. Mr. J. Clifford Kitson.
tsoti, Mr. Arthur E. Kendall, Misa
Mr?. H. C. Kent, Mrs. James Keele,
r. harry C. Ketft. Miss Klrwaa King,
Robert Kerr, Perl St. J. Kerr. -Mrs.
Kitcblu. Dr. Vandeleur Kelly, Mr.
rs. Jos. King, Mrs. Festjng C. Knight,
Miss Keddie, Miss Ada Knight Mr.
, Miss Mary Knight. Miss Knight, Mr.
J. FHancis King, Dr. Alfred Keenan, Mrs J. Francis
EiogX
Mr. and Mrs. C Lewis, Miss Lewis, Mrs. J. Lane.
Mrs. E, Mrs. T. H. Loxt'qn, Miss Lester,
r q^ u. Mrs.
It p°sL^* e
To- 4H * JHaid H * Le *«. Miss Lewk Mrs. .EL
A.i Ltd M m Lewis, Mrs., Arthur Cl Yrwnan, Mr. i
Frbdbrlck G/Ldwis, Mr. Reginald LnmfcXLyous, Mrs./
LeiUliJ th>/Misses Leitcf, Mrs. Erielt E. Ivons/
Mr.did hr i SI epheard Lesley. IT 7
Lieuteiilanrtfclonel Mr. F. jifahon M/.
and jstus MorrjaLthe Misse Miller, Miis
Alice Mac k. kf . Joseph Millir Mr. Oeorj • Miller. Ml-.
is. Mrs. Moreton, its. Jc mpb
Mills. MksJjl lls. Miss M D,
MIRIer. ilßfi ‘Mahon, Mug S. M'Mofu ella Mr* H.
Mack, if J)iiMluerTMiB| ilißer. Mrlaudllrs.
J. fmw Tf. MLedb Mr. J. Mabkie.
Montedq e. Mr. and Mrs. J. MRrtrfrr'Misses
‘Martin. My. C. Meiklehara. Mrs. Misses
Nanning, Mrs. T. M Mahon,
B.'V.adgwick/ Miss G. F. A J
A. Royers, Mrs. W. P. Mannin/
Wrau l liWiraing. Mr. J. T. .V'Mahon. Mr. W. ManulMfe,
Air. A. U. M‘Taggart. Mi&les M'Clemens, Mijfces
Jl'Ganley, Mrs, G. WCybley. Air. J/T. Mills,
’Mrs. J. T. P/Marsh, Mr. and Mrs./M. Bi Magil/ Missi
gaim/ Mr.audltrs. Mailler^the Misses Mntosh/
Macdonald, /Mrs. / Bernard At*Brid/ MisC.
nfe, Mrs./ W./St. • o(air AdaclaJy, Mies
ad. Miss Lottie Warfcs. Miss Alice 1
'M. MerijvAle, Mrs. Gebrge/M. Men rale, Miss
ru, Miss E. Montagu, Miss M‘glister Mr. and
Mrs./Waiton 1/ MereWethe*. Misd Blanche M'Caiilay.
Mr*r W. B. jW. Mi6s Mackenz j, Mr. W.
M. Mackenjde, Mr.'MurcbisoH /Mackenzie, Ir. Ham-
brook Mackenzie, Mr. ayfd Mrs, F. P. G. M Dme, the
Misses M‘Crae, Mr*. Archibald M‘Nelll, 1 r. A. Mi
M'Crae, Dr, and Mrs. \V, J. Munro. Miss Me iro. Mrs.
Edward Man by and Miss Manbv, *-f r Da- Id Miller.
Mi.se L. Munro. Mr-* Mitet. Tr
Rodd? Sir A. Robert*, fMiss Reynolds. Mrs. ZJ C.
Rennie, Miss T. Rosa. Mrs. W. Robertson. Misses
Robertson, Mrs B. Ridge. Mrs. Eae, Mrs, M. M-Rae.
Mr. and Mrs. if. M. Rowbotham. Mr. J. Rae, Mrs. J.
■ A- Roberts, Mr. R. Reid, Dr. George Robinson, Mr. J.
Roaeby, Mr. H. E. Robertson, Sir John Robertson. M*rs.
J. A. Robertson, Mr. J. J. Reynolds, Miss Russell, I.lrs.
w. W. J. Reilly, Mr*. Rowland, Mis&os Rowland, Mrs.
Reuse.
Mrs. W.R. and Miss Strong, Mrs. Thomas Stevenson,
Mr*, and Miss Stanley, Mrs. Sullivan. Mrs. Lorien J.
Solomon, Mrs. E. D. Stevenson. Mr. H. Peden Steel,
Mr. Sydney Smith, M.P.. Mrs. Sydney Smith, Mr.
Harold Banks Smith, Air. George Banks Smith, Mr.
and Mrs. S. Hague Smith, Mr. Arthur Speer. Mias
Stokes, Mr. W. T. A. Shorter, Miss Nellie Blanche Belfe,
Mr. and Mre. Julius Salenger. Rev. Dr, Stanley, M.A.,
LL.D., Miss Sullivan, Lieutenant R. C. Sparkes,
R.N., Mr. Ernest N. Solomon, Mr. Max J. Simon,
J.P., Miss Bessie Solomon, Mrs. Max J. Simon,
Mrs. W. Stephen, Miss Stephen. Miss Sapsford, Mr. T.
! H. Sapsford, Mr. E. Lewis Scott, Mrs. W. P. Small,
j Mr. and Mrs. Edward J. Sparke, the Misses Snarke,
[ Mrs. T. Miss Ada Saraueii, AWaa Emma
| Samuell, M<Van\Mrs. Richai'd Stranzen/MrjJjhadler,
Miss MiA Adele Shadier,
; pain,
bu 7 H tew*
Sbeppard, F. --tftmpson, Mrs, ind Mrs. W, B.
Simpson. Miss E. B. S Uch. Captaiq H.
G. Sjade, Mr. A M. Solomon,
Mryand S. Salomoud, Ur. an ytrs. Saiomond.
Mr. Mr. K iV Thrlng, Mnr
aofl Mrf. Mr. and Mrs. V , Trlcket^iffvis
Trickaft, Mr #Jf#Krs. W. H. Tihbitu
films B. TebU|lt.Mr. W. Thruchiy. k MR Turner,
Mr./and MrtJf L. J. Thorne, Mis*
Tompson, MMr. G. A.
Thompson. Mra
H. T. Mrs. A, P. Tighe, Mrs. and
s v F. Tidswell. Mr. T. Tids-
well, Mr. juin. Mrs. G. Thruckly, Mr. J.
Thnickly. Mrs. W. Thruckly, Mr. W. Teece,M.P.,Mr ’
M lBB VnbhoMu Mo —* M«„ a, ff.
atnei M. Thomas, Mr. J, A. Thompson, Dr. Ro *
P Trunpann. ¥a B* P Tmupanri,
Jame* M. Toohey, Miss Taylor, Mrs. W. H. Tp«
Mr. Deas Thompson. Mrs. Reas Thompson. !
Edward T. Thring, Miss Nfrindeyer Thompson, T
C. Wlndeyer Thompson, Mrs. Edward Tsrry.
Misses Terry, Mr. O. L. Thompson. Mrs.
Tick Thompson, Mr. Quwng Tart. Mr. and
Robert * A. Thompson. Miss *
Tnompsor ‘ - , . T’ -unson. Hi.'
sot), Mr
bakers' union exists at Varravdle, Victoria,
which, of course, insisted on all tha mem-
bers of the trade joining its ranks. This
one baker refused to do, and proceeded
to supply the hungry of Yarraville
with bread on his own account. The society, in
accordance with its custom, detailed two men to
follow this baker’s cart in a buggy and inform the
people at whose doors it stopped that the baker
who served them was a•• blackleg." This was a
novel kind of boycotting, .and their victim did
not appear to relish it. He undertook a
counter move, and followed the buggy of the
unionists in another buggy, having first armed
himself with a loaded gun. the unionists
proceeded to tamper with one of his customers,
this rebellious baker presented his gun at them
and ordered them off. with the alternative,'if they
declined to go, of being shot dead. Trades-
unionism, on this occasion, was not strong
enough in the breasts of the two uidonists to
become martyrs for its sake, and they inconti-
nently fled, the grim baker and his loaded gun
following hard behind. in.
cf/iy f Of fyp f/sr?T<y 0A
rife s'p/r/S'o/ /y#£/eAh
/4rfser7/s's%
fye /jfjY&TTac-
J//ja frery Tf? fe’crefiij-y yA
fit od " AeoJ'
‘CccSrtp
a/S / -
*£S A*
a cy£> a (2/UaA^
fic 04
a &**xJL * j..
yeef A’<*y
3cc A (o<L etK/cfpOy.
Ayo To o. <6?~oKep JcicT)
otser CoA/c/? aje 6a^
Cofy7}-oJ
Y e ZacPy
4 ETA/r
AlcLyotes's'f Tiecefi/'/o/} , *
V / S/iMecl our C 9 *
1 ij .l >h!J?T>y>*iA ufioy /^T f S"^ 0 '
London. Saturday Victot Etna>eoo<»
of Naples ffbd heir apparent to tne
hronc of Italy, intend* paying * s t g\t i 0
lugtralia The young prince »s »o bn ?ut
rut
tit/O h pre u)e See tfr'Sa.pyfi/
/ facfoyf Soye I/afo 9
u -5 ,( -^~Of'/^f
occas/oy
<£&%r
Lord Hopetoun of nL
his capital an example worfhv of ih«, 3,3 oty of
the respect of others H. h toMowiD * of
tor himself, W
he imported for his servants 1.3 ° gorg * ou ' l Series
men and grooms to be elsthe’d in^hT*’ 4 , h “ C *“ ch '
with pith helmets, Wbte > Co *'
K
A/
4,4
' * rk
A SILLY-SEASON HASH.


Foreign & colonial exchange bank
OF AUSTRALASIA, Limited.
Sydney— B(s King Street.
Melbourne— 3o9 Collins Street.
London Bankers—Australian Joint Stock Bank
No. 2 King William Street, London, E.C.
Authorised Capital, £500,000.
L S. RICHARDSON, Esq., Managing Director,
This Bank undertakes the Exchange of Money,
both International and Intercolonial, includ-
ing the Coinage of all Foreign Nations, in
addition to all usual and customary banking busi-
ness.
, Deposits Received.
3 years per cent.
12 months 8 percent.
6 months 7 percent.
3 months ... 6 percent.
Communications to be addressed to “The
Managing Director. ”
■iH2!»^iSBSIWSS!^SS3I
Watch Manufacturer & Jeweller,
813 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
(Nearly opposite Railway Station).
Tr
For Watches and Jewellery, send for my Price List
(Illustrated). Post Free.
Tub Unrivalled Keyless Watch,
2°s. Guaranteed. Post Free. 2 ° s -
Gent.’s English Levers (full cap) from £3 10s.
Ladies’ Beautiful Silver Watches from £1 10s.
Gold Watches and Jewellery of every description.
Country Residents and Visitors to Sydney call or send
to A. SAUNDERS, 813 George Street (nearly opposite
Railway Station), SYDNEY.
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
w. H. PALING & COMPANY, LIMITED,
356 George Street, SYDNEY,
ff AVE Just Opened a Magnificent Lot of 3XTe-w Pianos from the celebrated Makers, Stcinway, Erard, Uebel, Fenrich, Lipp, Eonkch, Bluthner, Collard,aud otheis
Also of the wonderful Victor Pianos at sE4:S and Jbißtev Ortra.nß. No such Variety or Value elsewhere for <h\su or Terms.
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
Society
Dr. Creed, M.L.C., is again on the crema-
tion_ racket. We hear a lot about the crema-
tiomsts, but we notice that so far none of them
devote their own bodies to the flames. The cause
won’t make much progress until some nice fat
man offers himself up as a burnt sacrifice, and
then everybody will follow the bell-wether as
they do in the regions of murder and suicide.
Dr. Creed must suppress his egotism in this
matter. He needn’t put on airs because he feels
that he would frizzle nicely.
* * #
A Thargomindah (Q.) lady recently
knocked the local editor down with a nullah-
nullah because he failed to sta'e that she was the
belle of the ball. However, as she hit him on the
head she didn’t hurt him much. Years ago, in the
days when we tried to get an honest living with
The Bulletin by letting Miss Smith say in our
columns that “Miss Smith looked nice as usual,”
a woman threatened us with a nullah nullah for
having the impudence to say that she was the
belte of the ball. Then we told her we really
didn t mean it. and that only made matters worse.
You can’t please women anyhow.
* * #
The first distinguished princeling to visit
Australia was the Prince of Schleswig-Holstein,
father of the present German Empress. This was
about 1855, when Westgarth was living out at
Merri Creek, near Melbourne. Westgarth had a
party at his house one night, and the Prince was
there. The gals all set their caps at him, but he was
as stony as Hopetoun. The Melbourne girls were
not so good-looking then. If one had annexed him
where would the present Empress of Germany be ?
Why, she would be no more tangible than Hans
Breitmann’s party.
* # *
It is stated that certain N.S. W. artillery
officers lately spent several days in trying to
fathom why certain water would not run away
down a drain. Finally it was ascertained they
had been trying to make the water run uphill.
* * *
In a late issue the Melbourne Standard
(edited, of course, by an ex-parson) emits a wild,
fearsome yell for more cat, in answer to a letter
protesting against some recent brutalising exhi-
bitions of torture, given before a select few in
the local gaol. A few days earlier the same paper
gave its readers the pleasing information that
Jones, the hangman, “ had invented a new stroke
which was very effective and told wonderfully on
the subject who was undergoing bisection at the
triangles ”: —
From an alimony case in a Melbourne
court “He (defendant) did not want to appear
mean, and would consent to an order for 5s per
week.” This man is out of his natural sphere—
he should have been Governor of Tasmania.
* # *
Among the distinguished patrons of sport
g resent at a seventy-round prize-fight held down
outh lately, between two pugilists, known to
their admirers as “ Pluto ” and “ Griffo ” respec-
tively, was—hold your breath- and keep steady !
the chaplain of the warship Orlando ! A religious
paper is our authority for this astounding state-
ment. We hail this as another evidence that the
Anglican Church, at any rate, is becoming more
liberal in its views everyday. The time may come
when it will not be thought anything out of the
way to see a Dean of the Chapter among the
spectators round a rat-pit or a Bishop leading the
cheering at a cock-fight. And what a fine time
that will be !
* * #
A fine sample of female cheek was dis-
played at South Melbourne police court, the othe
day, when a woman, summoned for assaulting a
neighbour with a lot of fencing-material, sent a
note to the magistrate, requesting him to post-
pone the case, as she didn’t care to appear till her
new dress was finished.
* * #
The great Smith difficulty again :
“ The Hon. John Smith, M.L.C., writes” (to the S. M.
Herald) “ to explain that he is not the John Smith whose
signature has been attached to several letters which have
recently appeared in the Herald. Mr. Smith, it appears,
has been credited with the authorship of these letters by
many people, and he therefore desires to correct this mis-
taken idea.”
* * *
The literary ladies of Melbourne—who
are they, by the way ?—purpose forming a pro-
fessional union. They are mostly single, and we
suppose they reckon a professional union is better
than none.
* * #
A Sydney daily paper, in its printed “in-
structions to reporters,” says that “high-flown
language should be eschewed and pure Anglo-
Saxon used, except under special circumstances ”
• —“ special circumstances,” of course, meaning a
gubernatorial reception, or the report of a Foreign-
trade conference. If that paper expects Swifts,
Addisons, and Ruskins to “do” police-courts,
inquests, and cabbage-market reports, what must
not be demanded from the editorial staff—and, by
the way, what kind of diction does Sydney’s most
ignorant and bull-headed newspaper nigger-driver
expect from his reporters at thirty shillings a
week? Can you hire John Morleys for two half-
crowns a day ?
* * *
The increase of typhoid in many places in
England is attributed to eating raw oysters from
foul beds.
Apropos of the
present ceremonies at
St. Mary’s Cathedral,
Sydney, a t which
over £2500 has been
collected in aid of the
building fund, it is
said that the mystery
attendant on the
burning of the tem-
porary cathedral in
18G9 was cleared up
by the verger on his
deathbed. He was,
he said, looking
through the building,
which was of weather-
board, preparatory to
closing up, when he
heard the tirebell ring
out. Helefthislighted
candle, which was
fixed in a primitive
affair well known
amongst carpenters—
a bit of deal board
with three nails stuck
upright therein—on
a seit, and went to
look at the fire, for-
getting all about the
candlestick. On turn-
ing towards home he
found to his horror
the building wrapped
in flames.
# *
The following
statement made by
an American brewer
is quoted with evi-
dent approval by the
Argus :—“ Beer con-
tains so very little
alcohol compared
with wine or spirits
that it is unlikely a
man ever died of alco-
holism from drinking
beer only. ” Of course.
It’s the ginger-beer
men put in their ale
to make shandygaff
that kills them. Dr.
Youl, the Melbourne
coroner, has, however,
a decided opinion to
the contrary. He
says colonial beer is
the most poisonous
and degrading drink
he knows of, not ev( n
excepting rum.
They say that a world-renowned visitor to
Australia (of whom nothing is heard lately) termi-
nated his “noble mission” by making himself
scarce with the inevitable girl. She began by
sitting at the good man’s feet, and ended by sitting
on his knee.
# # #
AN INSUPERABLE IMPEDIMENT.
(For The Bulletin.)
She’s fair, she’s bright, she’s good,
Has land and gold in plenty,
With talent she’s endued
And she is not yet twenty.
She has a graceful form,
Her eyes are grey and lustrous,
Her heart is pure and warm,
Her temper never blusterous.
Right mellow is her voice,
Most gracefully she dances,
My heart she doth rejoice
By her many loving glances.
She loves me well, I know,
And very oft I’ve kissed her,
But we mayn’t churchward go,
Because— she is my sister.
# * 9
The little Pedlington dispute, at the
Bathurst Hospital, has had one good result. It
has broken up the clique that so long ruled the
City of the Plains.
* * #
The people who ran away from Australia
to cool their heels in Hobart have, to some extent,
been jumping out of the frying-pan into the fire.
On 20th January the thermometer at the city of
cool-nights registered 143 in the sun and 95 in the
shade.
A really distinguished globe-trotter dined
lately with Hopetoun, whom he describes as a
washed-out person. Hopey wore a plaid sash
round his waist at dinner (this news will probably
boom plaid-scarfs), and his only intelligible query
to his cute visitor was, “ What’s your opinion of
my plaid ? ” The visitor’s alleged reply will not
stand reproduction.
# # #
The man who proposed the Queen’s health
at a recent Tam worth (N.S.W.) social gathering,
started thus :
At such festive gatherings we are expected to dive into
the depths of the flowing bowl to fetch up therefrom
pearls of wit to disolve in the nectar of social conviviality.
* # #
A lad named William Nunn half-killed
another boy in Melbourne, the other day, for call-
ing him “ Lord Hopetoun.” Nunn had hopes of
a moustache, and will, probably, be a great man
when there are no more lords in Australia.
* * *
A pewter half-pint is now called “a Hope-
toun,” because it’s small and smooth, shallow and
shiny, and has a “handle.” “Two ’Opetouns”
is becoming a common order in Melbourne bars.
* # #
The Orientls s.s. Iberia seems to be an un-
lucky ship, so far as her captains are concerned.
The veteran Captain Shannon lost his command,
after many years’ faithful service, over that much-
discussed gold-robbery ; the treasure, it will be
remembered, was subsequently found buried in
the sand at Williarastown pier—and there is not
a soul who ever knew Captain Shannon who
would not trust him as implicitly as they would
trust George Higinbotham. And now Captain
Adey, Captain Shannon’s successor, has been re-
moved from the ship, at the instance, it is said, of
Cardinal Moran, on the ground that he gave a
“I AM THE MAN!”
LITTLE SMITH : “I HEAR MISS BUGG IS MARRIED. SHE
USED TO BE AWFULLY MASHED ON ME, BUT I
COULDN’T STAND HER AT ANY PRICE. WHO
THE DOOCE IS THE MISERABLE WRETCH?”
LONG TOM: “I AM.” (And then the land played.)
sea-burial to the body of Father Kavanagh, well-
known as a R.C. temperance-advocate (who died
shortly before reaching Adelaide) instead of
taking it ashore for interment. It is difficult to
pass judgment on an affair of this kind, but it is
to be presumed that the captain acted without ill-
feeling of any kind.
* # *
Henniker Heaton’s Anglo-colonial penny-
postage scheme threatens to come off When it
does, every man Jack in Australia will get a beg-
ging circular from Dr. Barnardo’s Children’s Home
every week reg’lar, and every woman whose ad-
dress is recorded in the Directories will receive
20 sets of instructions for self-measurement and a
circular on tissue-paper about pretty wools direct
from the spinners at prices defying competition.
We understand the capers
Of new-boni ev’ning papers
That long to keep the prison cat in play,
The stories of the flaying
All form, there’s no gainsaying,
The reading which may make the journal pay.
If, of the nine-tailed creature,
They make a special feature,
And tell just how the clotted blood-drops splash,
The history infernal
Will help to sell the journal—
So boom the circulation of the lash.
There's money in the “slashing,”
The “dripping ” and the “splashing,”
The whistling” and the “hissing ” and the
“ wales,”
And while there’s money in it
They’ll laud it and they’ll spin it—
The feline of a hundred thousand tales.
A Stuffed Clergyman.
There is a small home of desolation and
wretchedness called Ocean Grove a few miles off
in the wid.e distress that surrounds Geelong
(Vic.), to which dull, dreadful tin houses and a
coffee-palace, batches of bilious-visaged females
and long, dank, taciturn men in every stage of
clerical foolishness and religious misery repair
occasionally, to commune with their secret sor-
rows, and take hopeless and harrowing dips in
the sea, and aggravate their natural melancholy
and chronic complaints by suffering the uncom-
mon atmospheric feverishness and a particularly
virulent type of mosquito that pervades the place.
Ocean Grove is one of those haunts of mono-
tony and mute despair called temperance town-
ships, and is, consequently, much affected by
people who are solemn to the verge of death and
addicted to new religious creeds and theories
usually formulated and controlled by a com-
pressed and kiln-dried monument of human
despondency in a long, black coat and a set of
trousers drawn up sharp and sudden and out off
short, who accompanies the party to sniff
grievously all about the place like an orphan
banshee and keep his flock in grim remembrance
of the fact that, though they are away for holi-
days, they are still born to inherit sin and death
and suffer the pangs of the flesh, and wrestle with
the devil all through the show. By an oversight,
or a misconception, or at the direct instigation of
Satan, some unregenerate and iniquitous indi-
vidual, with much natural depravity and ori-
ginal _ sin in his composition, must have visited
the little corner of the vineyard during New
Year’s holiday, as at that time a base outrage was
committed on a circle of strictly-severe, middle-
aged ladies and stolidly-proper damsels, and a
large, saturnine man of grace who was tem-
porarily lifting up his Ebenezer in the place.
Lady visitors to Ocean Grove repair away down
behind the sand-hills on the left when they desire
to wriggle out of their daily raiment and into the
prosaic garment adopted by females when
they waddle in the big blue sea ; the gen-
tlemen bear off to the hills a mile away on
the right, and hitherto, such has been the
propriety of the visitors to the temperance town-
ship, this highly moral law had never been violated.
The circle of pious females mentioned went down
to the sea one morning as usual, and after kicking
up a good deal on the billowy wave came up out
of the waters in a long, wet, shivering streak to
overload themselves with dry clothes, when they
saw afar off the recumbent form of a malignant,
male individual in clerical garments stretched out
amongst their dresses and etceteras, evidently
sleeping the slumber of the just. A high-pressure,
fortissimo, yell went straight up to
heaven, and the damp and draggled chorus ‘fell
hastily back into the briny deep to meditate and
pray. Firstly, the lustiest lady of the collection
engaged to scream at the sleeper and awaken him
to a sense of his wickedness, and she evolved a
tempestuous, velocissima protest, ranging high and
wide; then she passed up the scale with a judi-
cious malediction and fell off the other end; but
the stranded man went calmly on lying there.
The party then joined its forces and let off a con-
certed complaint, soaring to the highest pinnacle
of yell, with no more effect, and for two whole
hours that harrowed ehoir stood out in sun and
water and shrieked at the hateful intruder, with-
out prevailing upon him to change his site or
convincing him that he was de trap. The ladies
hovered about the brink of despair, and made
little, sudden sallies, and heaved masses of
mussel, shells and other missiles at the en-
camped rascal, and fell back again into the
brine as if expecting some painful reprisal, but
their projectiles fell far short of their object, and
the complication remained very much as before.
At length a male relative to a few of the party,
fearing some accident, came over to reconnoitre,
and the bathers saw him and hung up signals of
distress, and signified the object of abhorence
over there amongst their clothes. The relative
went down, and seized the sleeper by the leg,, and
dragged him away along the sands, and sat on
him and reflected, whilst the women dressed. In
a while the ladies, fully caparisoned, came along
in a body, intending, no doubt, to give the base
and malignant wretch a lot of awful talk; and
when the conviction that the object of their
wrath was only an irresponsible dummy made up
of parson’s clothes and grass seized upon them
their feelings became, too dense for expression, and
they just leaned up against each other and
sobbed hysterically. Meanwhile a large, clerical
individual in a very small shirt was raging about
his room in the coffee-palace, using Scriptural
quotations and hard, blank language, because his
clothes had gone off in the night, and left him
alone in his sorrow. The perpetrator of the above
series of outrages may expect to be overtaken by
a painful visitation during the summer, if prayer
has not lost its old efficacy.
Cyril Haviland appears to be be the right
man in the right place, at Sydney School of Arts,
which is now the best-run show in Sydney.
The bookmaker has one great advantage
over every other kind of “business” man, in the
matter of “bad debts.” He makes them, as a
general rule, at a time when his profits are fattest,
whereas things are exactly reversed in the case of
merchants and tradesmen. This is believed to be
an entirely new and original Bulletin explana-
tion of why the blatant “bookie” never files bis
shovel through default of creditors.
Ross Raymond’s favourite victims were
American Consuls, and he would fly from Con-
sulate to Consulate throughout Europe, relieving
these gentlemen of divers sums of money, which,
in all cases, they seemed to have disbursed with a
simplicity quite incredible. One of his last rest-
ing places was Lyons, where, as usual, he robbed
the TJ.S. Consul, and then quietly proceeded to
Paris, where he represented himself as being con-
nected with the London and New York Press,
and announced his intention of giving a banquet
at the H6tel Continental, and asked a friend to
invite the most important American residents in
Paris. This was done ; the staircase was draped
with flags and flowers, a sumptuous banquet
ordered, and then when the guests were assembled
and the band was playing Raymond bolted,
leaving his guests to settle the immense expenses
incurred. A good while ago Consul Spencer, of
Melbourne, wrote a lovely article about Raymond
in the Argus. We are afraid that R. R. had
“ had” Mr. Spencer at one time or other.


The SYDNEY DEPOSIT BANK,
90-KING STREET -90
Established 1885.
Agencies in London and throughout Australia.
Overdrafts granted against Deposit of Deeds,
an ” a ‘l the usual banking business transacted.
Ihe following are the Rates of Interest allowed
for Fixed Deposits
3 Years ... ... 9| per cent.
12 Months ... ... 8* per cent.
6 Months ... ... 7h per cent.
3 Months ... ... 5| per cent.
5 per cent, allowed on daily balance of current account.
For the past Four (4) Years a Bonus of One peb
Cent, has been paid in addition to the above rates.
This is the first and only Bank in the Colonies
which divides its profits with its depositors.
Communications from the country will be
promptly attended to.
T. S. RICHARDSON,
General Manager.
The
Marvellous
18s. 6d.
OPTIMUS
WATCHES
The Best, Cheapest and Most Accurate Timekeepers
ever produced.
Made especially to our order by one of the leading and
most celebrated manufacturers of Watches in Switzerland,
and experience has shown that no watch is better than a
well-made Swiss one.
Gilt movements, jewelled in six holes, keyless (10 turns
to wind), enamel dials, crystal faces, well made, splendidly
finished, nickel cases that will wear excellently; in fact,
real good-looking, handsome little watches, and magnifl-'
cent timekeepers. . .
Twelve months’ guarantee forwarded with every one.
Send P. 0.0. for 19s. 6d. (Is. postage), and have one
forwarded by post. If not in every way satisfactory after
a week money willingly refunded.
Only to be obtained from
FROST <sc SHIPHAM,
Spectacle Makers, Opticians & Electricians,
474 & 587 George Street, Sydney.
Over 2B Pounds Gain in Ten Weeks.
Experience ol a Prominent Citizen.
The California Society for the)
Suppression op Vice, 1
San yKANcisoo, July 7th, 1886.)
I took a severe eold upon
my chest and lungs and did
not give It proper attention;
it developed into bronchitis,
and in the fall of the same
year I was threatened with
consumption* Physicians or-
dered me to a more congeni-
al climate, and I came to San
Francisco. Soon after my
arrival I commenced taking
Scott’s Emulsion of Cod Liver
Oil with Hypophosphites reg-
ularly three times a day. In
ten weeks my avoirdupois
went from 165 to 180 pounds
and over; the cough mean-
time ceased, c. R. bennett.
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS.
Robertson’s Whisky.: £2OO PRIZBS.
GIVEN AWAY IN THE COLONIES
i as follows:
16 of £5 each, 25 i. 2, and 70 £l,
Pamphlets from the Agents, ALLT & OCX, limited, CHARLOTTE PLACE, SYDNEY
i;l■ . . -
A Book to Bead.
The Latest Gilded Fill.
Fab more than half of the prodigious success of
“ Progress and Poverty ” lay in Henry George’s
admirably popular and illustrative style. He had
a firm grip on one of the two great aspects of
Socialism —the Land, He had the keenest sense
of wrong and inj ust ce. But he had an essentially
moderate and practical mind, thoroughly in touch
with prevailing sentiments, and this saved him
from all excess. He knew exactly how to put things
in such a way as to produce in average intelligent
people the maximum of effect with the minimum
of offence. Edward Bellamy’s book, “ Looking
Backward,” is at the present moment achieving a
success as prodigious as Henry George’s maiden
effort, and for almost exactly the same reasons.
It supplements that effort, It treats of the other
great aspect of Socialism—Capital. In style it is
even more popular than “ Progress and Poverty.”
It is fiction carefully balanced with principle-
scientific Socialism sugared with a “ story.” Its
tact is wonderful. It is perfect newspaper work.
It offends nobody. The mise en scene is carefully
removed to a century hence, when the Social Re-
volution is supposed to have been accomplished
with joyous ease and security. All the agony and
anguish of the process are forgotten. All the
desperate efforts and mutual combats are ignored.
Everybody is happy, and we are to believe that
all this is.to take place in a hundred years or so
by a swift and inevitable process which is not
to imply the shedding of a drop of blood. Mr.
Bellamy is mildly severe on what he calls “ the
wavers of the Red Flag. ” They are the foes of all
progress. Probably enough they are being sub-
sidised by the Capitalists in order “ by alarming
the timid to head off all real reform. ” In the
same way religion is treated with the extremes);
gentleness. All the orthodox American and
Bostonian Unitarian cant about “The Creator,”
and His benevolence and beneficence, and all that,
flourishes here like a green bay-tree. The heroine,
who is “ the consummate flower ” of the socialised
State of 2000, remarks with lively unction of her
great-grandmother, that “ she has been in Heaven
for nearly a century. ” Girls who are the “con-
summate flower” of A.D. 2000 are not likely to talk
quite in that way, I fancy. The sexual problem,
with all the complexities of monogamic matri-
mony, is adroitly eluded. In 2000 all mar-
riages are to be happy and eternal, you know, be-
cause men and women, being all provided for on
an equal footing by the State, are to be “suitors
to one another for nothing beyond love,” which,
of course, settles the whole question of the rela-
tions of the sexes. In simple words, half the
problem is juggled away by supposing that the
home-life of the best specimens of the present
leisured class will become universal. Nothing
that prevailing sentiment, if contradicted, can
get angry about is touched on by the astute
Bellamy. He is for the “ high-toned, cultchawed
sow-ciety of Bawston, dontcherknow, for every-
body, dontcherknow.” “Falsehood,” be says
ingenuously, “ is not common between gentlemen
and ladies, social equals.” To which one is
tempted to reply in the language of Yankeeonia :
“ Say, now, Bellamy, old man, what are you
giving us, anyway? ”
* * #
So much for the by no means small or insignifi-
cant limitations of the book from the point of
view of the Socialist, scientific or otherwise. From
the point of view of the social babe and suckling
it is impossible to praise it too highly. If you
have a friend and brother sailing o’er life’s solemn
main in an A 1 copper-bottom vessel, with chicken
and champagne laid in copiously, and want to
rouse in him some sense of sympathy and appre-
hension for all the poor, half-starved fellows
in the rotten-timbered cockle-boats, warranted
to secure the full insurance money in under
three voyages, give him a copy of “ Looking
Backward.” And don’t you forget that in this
attractive little fictional pamphlet he will be laid
hold of by real and sound Socialistic ideas, and
all the more so that the horrid word “Socialist” is
never used once, and the horrider thing “Social-
ism” is sedulously held up to tacit denial and
gentle reprobation. Bellamy knows both what he
is, and what he talks, about. He is something
more than the Jules Verne of Socialism. He has
imbibed his Karl Marx up to the throat, and his
ideal state of 2000 is merely an idealised picture of
the huge centralised and socialised state which we
meet in the writings of the author of “Das
Kapital.”
* » *
Simply then, as an effort, and a highly success-
ful effort to draw a fairly consistent picture of
applied Socialism in a popular and attractive
shape, Bellamy’s book is to be p»raised with all
sincerity and generosity. How well has he realised
the Georgian knack of good illustrations ! Take
his comparison of the present condition of affairs
to a coach with the millions as the straining team,
Hunger as the driver, and the rich as the passen-
gers on the top. He works it out in poignant
detail. He speaks of the these idle and luxurious
ones:—
But did they think only of themselves ? you ask. Was
not their very luxury rendered intolerable to them by
comparison with the lot of their brothers and sisters in
the harness, and the knowledge that their own weight
added to their toil ? Had they no compassion for fellow
beings from whom fortune only distinguished them ? Oh,
yes ; commiseration was frequently expressed by those
who rode for those who had to pull the coach, especially
when the vehicle came to a bad place in the road, as it
was constantly doing, or to a particularly steep hill. At
such times the desperate straining of the team,; their
agonized leaping and plunging under the pitiless lashing
of hunger, the many who fainted at the rope and were
trampled in the mire, made a very distressing spectacle,
which often called forth highly creditable displays of
feeling on the top of the coach. At such times the pas-
sengers would call down encouragingly to the toilers 6f
the rope, exhorting them to patience, and holding out
hopes of possible compensation in another world for the
hardness of their lot, while others contributed to buy
salves and liniments for the crippled and injured. It was
agreed that it was a great pity that the coach should be
so hard to pull, and there was a sense of general relief
when the specially bad piece of road was gotten over.
This relief was not, indeed, wholly on account of the
team, for there was always some danger at these bad
places of a general overturn in which all would lose their
seats.
It must in truth be admitted that the main effect of the
spectacle of the misery of the toilers at the rope was to
enhance the passengers’ sense of the value of their seats
upon the coach, and to cause them to hold on to them
more desperately than before.
If the passengers could only have felt assured that
neither they nor their friends would ever fall from the
top, it is probable that, beyond contributing to the funds
for liniments and bandages, they would have troubled
themselves extremely little about those who dragged the
coach.
That is excellently well expressed. The simile
seizes the mind and clings to it. It is vivid, it is
realistic, it is complete. To complete this gift of
picturesqueness is the accompanying one of
lucidity. He makes the practical application of
the socialistic principles so clear. In his year 2000
every man receives the same allowance from the
State, and yet the right of inheritance is not in-
terfered with (“ Ladies, you are still to have all
your mamma’s things,” we hear him murmur,
“And all the knick-knacks of the dear old home
shall go on to your sons and daughters.”) But
will not this soon lead to the old accumulation of
wealth ? By no means :
Under the present organisation of society, accumula-
lations of personal property are merely burdensome the
moment they exceed what adds to the real comfort. In
your day, if a man had a house crammed full with gold
and silver plate, rare China, expensive furniture, and such
things, he was considered rich, for these things reprd
D Nie y Oil p. S’TOC l\ •M& S WH 6.N 1 6-0 J Q BED TO N l«-HT
V T y* ey /j|Uoßa TH AIN IVIINE vs
A SANTA CLAUS INCIDENT.
sented money, and could at any time be turned into itj
Nowadays a man whom the legacies of a hundred relai
tives, simultaneously dying, should place in a similar
position, would be considered very unlucky. The articles
not being saleable, would be of no /alue to him except
for their actual use or the enjoyment of their beauty. On
the other hand, his income remaining the same, he would
have to deplete his credit to hire houses to store the
goods in, and still further to pay for the servise of those
who took care of them.
* * *
Everyone passes through the grades of manual
labour, but, as everyone has first been educated
up to the heights of dados and Queen Anne
spindle-shanked tables, they don’t mind it in the
least. It is a perpetual “ playing at being work-:
ing-people.” And so with personal service—
You must remember that there is recognised no sort of
difference between the dignity of the different sorts of
work required by the nation. The individual is never re-
garded, nor regards himself, as the servant of those he
serves, nor is he in any way dependent upon them. It is
always the nation which he is serving. No difference is
recognised between a waiter’s functions and those of any
other worker. The fact is that his personal service is in-
different from our point of view. So is a doctor’s. I
should as soon expect our waiter to-day to look down on
me because I served him as a doctor, as think of looking
down on him because he served me as a waiter, ;
And all this, my friends, is true, and it is also ap-
plied Socialism, but applied with lots of rose-
water and moonshine, and with all the sweat and
strain of the process as it affects you and me care-
fully eliminated.
* • m
Take again the educational system just alluded
to. Here is the true Socialistic conception of the
future universal education well grasped and clearly
expressed:—
To put the matter in a nutshell, there are three main
grounds on which our educational system rests : first, the
right of every man to the completest education the
nation can give him on his own account as necessary to
the enjoyment of himself ; second, the right of his fellow-
citizens to have him educated, as necessary to their
enjoyment of his society ; third, the right of the unborn
to be guaranteed an intelligent and refined parentage.
It is indeed pleasant to think of this sort of thing
being already in its twentieth edition. For
observe that this is contemporary Socialism-
Socialism up to date. It soars right above what
Renan calls “the sectarian Socialism” of the
early French Socialists, whose demand was for a
community of well-fed and well-housed human
porkers. Our last extract shall be with regard to
the Criminal Question and its treatment ip
the day when they call it no longer “ crime ” but
“ Atavism ”: —
In the nineteenth century, fully nineteen-twentieths of
crime, using the word broadly to include all sorts of mis-
demeanours, resulted from the inequality in the posses-
sions of individuals ; want tempted the poor, lust of
greater gains, or the desire to preserve former gains,
tempted the well-to-do. Directly or indirectly, the desire
for money, which then meant every good thing, was the
motive of all this crime, the taproot of a vast poison-;
growth, which the machinery of law, courts, and police
could barely prevent from choking your civilisation out-
right. When we made the nation the sole trustee of the
wealth of the people, and guaranteed to all abundant
maintenance, on the one hand abolishing want, and oh
the other checking the accumulation of riches, we cut
this root and the poison tree that overshadowed your
sopiety withered like Jonah’s gourd, in a day. As for the
comparatively small class of violent crimes against
persons, unconnected »'Ah any idea of gain, they
were a.most wholly confined, even in your day,
to the ignorant and bestial, and in these days
when education and good manners are not the
monopoly of a few, but universal, such atrocities are
scarcely ever heard of. You now see why the word
atavism ’is used for “ crime.” It is because nearly all
lorms of crime known to you are motiveless now,’and
when they appear can only be explained as the outcrop-
ping of ancestral traits. You used to call persons who
stole, evidently without any rational motive, klepto-
maniacs, and when the case was clear deemed it absurd to
punish them as thieves. Your attitude towards the
genuine kleptomaniac is precisely ours towards the victim
restraint 1 ”' attitude of compassion and firm but gentle
The Bulletin, I notice, is perennially being re-
quested by correspondents of all sorts to mention
a book which treats in a popular manner of the
social ideas which The Bulletin in a general way
believes in and advocates. In other words, it is
aB ked for a primer or text-book of Socialism. Will
all the sucking socialistic doves take this as an
intimation that they can’t do better than spend a
shilling sterling in buying a copy of “Looking
Backward?” ’
FRANCIS ADAMS.
The late Phil. Beck, who shot himself at
sea, had an extraordinary memory, and was
known as “ Memory ” Beck. He seemed to learn
a part almost by once reading it over. In London
he learned the whole of Coleridge’s dismal tragedy
of “ Remorse,” and recited it before Lord Chief
Justice Coleridge and a-distinguished* company,
including our noble. Beck would act two or three
new parts a week in London matinees without
turning a hair. His end was something- like that
of Gaston Vandeloupe, his favourite part, lin
“ Madame Midas. ” Yandeloupe swallows poisbn
and then says, “ Now for the Great Conundrum !’<
Which expression perhaps originated with Parson
Dodd, the hanged friend of good old Doctor John-
son, and forger of bills on Lord Chesterfield;
Several of the papers appear to, regard Phil. Beck
as a young man. He was forty-two if he was a day,
and left behind him a daughter of three-and-
twenty.
The Illustrated Australian News,
owned by the Age proprietors, has, in its January
number, a descriptive history of Port Arthur,
Tasmania, in which mention is made of an “Irish
political offender named Smith O’Brien, who
finally made his escape, breaking his parole not
to do so.”, This is pure fiction, and only the Age
people, with their extreme hatred of everything
Irish, could give publicity to it. As a matter of
fact Smith O’Brien received a free pardon and re-
turned to Ireland in 1854.
Alarming Spread of Influenza.
The outbreak of influenza in Europe has now
crossed the Atlantic and assumed such widespread
dimensions that we cannot ignore the possibility
that this latest epidemic may find its way in our
midst. The swiftness with which it spreads,
envoi ving entire continents within such brief
limits of time, its origin and diffusion combine to
render it the most typical of all epidemic diseases.
Strictly speaking it is not a modern disease, but
has made its appearance centuries ago, when it
traversed the whole of Europe, barely one-tenth
of the population escaping its visitation. In this
triumphant hour of expanding civilization, when
man’s ingenuity has annihilated space and time,
it is within the range of probability that the
scourge may be carried to these shores; Let Us
therefore take such precautionary measures that
should avert an introduction of this epidemic or
confine its operations within the narrowest of
limits. Influenza is not a disease sui generis, but
like most fevers, whatever they are designated in
the jargon of the medical schools, is but the effect
of debility, and attacks those susceptible to its
germs. It is now confirmed that all morbid
action is uniform and that the primary symptoms
denote functional disorder of the liver and kidneys.
The alarming spread of the epidemic may there-
fore be stayed in its progress, its cause counter-
acted by human foresight. It behoves those who
possess health to fortify their system, while those
debilitated in their constitution should stimulate
cheir dormant functions into activity by a course
of Warner’s Safe Cure, which infallibly restores
constitutional vigor. In proof whereof we attach
the following attestations recently received from
responsible sources, which must carry conviction
to everybody’s mind.
The Kev. J. Auchinleck Ross, Incumbent of
Cootamundra, states: —“l can bear witness to
the efficacy of Warner’s Safe Cure, having used
the same while subjected to attacks of fever. A
servant of mine suffered from a large swelling in
the left breast, which has frequently discharged,
especially in warm weather. She consulted
various doctors without obtaining much relief.
At my instance she took Warner’s Safe Cure, and
with the use of the second bottle the swelling
almost subsided. ”
The Rev. C. H. Haggar, M.A., 8.D., Ph D.,
Townsville, Q., testifies under date September 2(i,
1889 : —“ During my extensive experience in
Australia, I have come across many people who
claim to have been benefitted by the use of
Warner’s Safe Cure. A decided fever case came
under my notice, where a prompt resort to
Warner’s Safe Cure and Safe Pills wrought
wonders. I have on several occasions taken
Warner’s Safe Cure with great benefit to myself,
more particularly for renal calculi, which prostrated
me on several occasions. Apart from experience,
my knowledge of chemistry and materia medica
lead me to conclude that the Safe Cure is a good
thing.”
Mr. Jas. E. Tonkin, M.L. A., writes us, Sydney,
January 2, 1890:—“I have for several years
suffered from disorganisation of the kidneys
combined with sciatic pains. I have used for this
complaint some six bottles of Warner’s Safe Cure,
with complete relief, and have no hesitation in
recommending the same to any one suffering from
the same cause.”
The Yen. Archdeacon Plume, M.A., of New
South Wales, certifies :—“ During my long bush
tours, I have come across many wonderful cures
effected by Warner’s Safe Cure. For fever, so
prevalent in the bush, it seems a certain cure.
From what I have seen on my late trip, I should
■ever start on a journey without my pack being
furnished with a bottle of the above medicine.”
Mr. J. Saxby, head master, Public School,
Burwood, N.S.W. volunteers the following :
“ Having suffered from a sluggish liver and severe
pains in the back, during the latter part of 1887,, I
tried the effect of Warner’s Safe Cure. After
taking one bottle I felt very much better, and on
recurrence of similar indisposition a few months
ago, the same remedy, did me a great deal of
good. ”
The remarkable virtness of this great remedy
require but to be disseminated ; a prompt recourse
to it will subdue diseases of kidneys and liver, and
must stem the alarming spread of influenza.


T>
i
N
K
d
Is!
S
T
O
u
/UenTs.
DELISSAi PHILLIPS
"3i kS t RttV.
Amusements.
rpHEATRE ROYAL.
Under the Management of Messrs. Williamson,
Garner and Musgrove.
Lessee, Mr. S. Lazar. Treasurer, Mr. Geo. L. Goodman.
TO-NIGHT, THURSDAY, AND EVERY EVENING,
Williamson, Garner and Musgrove’s
GRAND CHRISTMAS ANNUAL,
ALADDIKT. ALADDIN.
Admission—ss., 3s. and Is.
ITER MAJESTY’S THEATRE.
Lessee and Manager Mr. Geo. Rignold.
Doors open at 7; commencing 7.30. Carriages at 10.45.
To-Night and Every Evening,
Shakespeare’s Fairy Comedy,
A MIDSUMMER NIGHT’S DREAM.
Box Office at Theatre from 10 to 5. Prices as usual
J. P. Macdonald, Acting-Manager.
CRITERION THEATRE
Sole Proprietor .... Mr. John Solomon,
Under the Management of Messrs. Brough and Boucicault
General Manager ... Mr. Mayne.
Doors Open, 7. Overture, 8. Carriages, 10.25.
TO-NIGHT, AND EVERY EVENING,
the Original Farcial Comedy in 3 acts,
THE BALLOON,
by Geo. Manville Fenn and J. H. Damley.
Preceded at 8 o’clock by
OUR BITTEREST FOE.
Admission ... £2 2s. to Is,
Box Plan at Nicholson’s. Carriages at 10.25 p.m,
Jok Davis, Business Manager.
ip H E CYCLO RAM A!
Beyond all doubt, never, in the history of Sydney, has
there been presented an exhibition at once so novel,
wonderful and interesting.
The marvellous Battle Scene I
All the horrors of war, with its scenes of heroism, and
the full details of a widespreading landscape, brough
fully before the eye of the spectator.
Open daily, 10 to 10; Sundays (half-price), 3to 10.
Opposite Redfern Railway Terminus.
g O N D I AQUARIUM.
The Most Popular
PICNIC and PLEASURE GROUNDS of AUSTRALIA.
The Famous Switchback Railway, conveying
Passengers from Cliff to Cliff daily.
Splendid Asphalt Open-Air Skating-Rink Free to Visitors.
Open Daily from 10 a.m to 10 p.m.
Admission, Is.; Children, 6d. Trams to Gate—Fare, 4d
SCHOOL OF ARTS.
Lessee—Mr. Harry Rickards. Treas.—Mr. J. C. Leete.
SEVENTH WEEK of Mr. HARRY RICKARDS’
New English and Irish Comedy Company,
SATURDAY, Ist FEBRUARY,
*' MA-IN-LAW,” and another Great Olio,
Prices—3s., 2s. and Is. Plan at Nicholson’s.
Wm. A. Jinkins. Business Manager,
Furniture, &o.
N
EWTON AND LAMB
FURNITURE and PIANOFORTE
WAREHOUSEMEN,
CABINETMAKERS, UPHOLSTERERS
AND
BEDDING MANUFACTURERS.
SHOW ROOMS AND MANUFACTORY;
SPRING AND O’CONNELL STREETS.
g
Full suites for diningroom-side-
BOARD, DINNER WAGGON, TABLE,
OVERMANTEL, COUCH, EASY CHAIRS,
CARVING CHAIRS and DINING CHAIRS,
all to match. Newton & Lamb.
ELF-ADJUSTING HAMMOCK CHAIR,
• Patented.
fg
This chair adjusts itself to any position, from
sitting to reclining and vice versa, at the will of
the occupant. It is simple yet ingenious in its
construction; works automatically. The above
cut represents only two of the numerous positions
that can be obtained instantly, and with but little
effort!. It fits perfectly every part of the body,
and gives the occupant entire rest. We can now
supply portable suspension Stands to enable the
Chair to be used anywhere. Price, with Stand,
80s.; without Stand, zss.
Packing in canvas, if required, 2s. 6d. extra.
R A WIN C -ROOM Fashionably
Upholstered, at all prices.
CCASIONAL TABLES in all Woods? Im-
mense variety of designs; also, elegantly
finished in Embroidery, Plush, &c. Nkwton and
Lamb.
B
WALNUT FALL
FRONT PEDESTAL
WRITING DESKS, of vari-
ous sizes, fitted with Shelves,
Moveable Pigeon-holes, Slid-
ing Trays, Stationery, Draw-
ers, revolving portable triple
j Inkstand. Receptacles for
Stamps, and Ruler and Pen
Racks. Outside Drawers divided into compart-
ments by movable partitions to admit of enlarging
or diminishing the space when required. Locks
automatically. One of the most useful, commo-
dious, and perfectly-planned articles for the Library
or Office yet produced. Admirably suited to the
necessities of professional and business men.
w
ALNUT FALL FRONT
PEDESTAL WRITING
SINGLE
DESK.—
Internal arrangements almost identical with the
description given above. Price only £l2 10s.
fg
Drawing-room
cabinets.
Early English
CHIPPENDALE DESIGNS.
Newton & Lamb.
gf
JJEDSTEADS, all sizes
Nickel-plated and Black and
Brass. Great variety.
Bedding .—■ All descriptions
at lowest rates.
Newton & Lamb. .
g gf
STRING MAT-
TRESSES (Woven
Wire), best make ; also,
Spiral Spring.
Price, from 7a. 6d. each.
CHEAP FURNITURE.—Pine Tables, from
10s. ; Dining Tables, from 20s. ; Kitchen
Dressers, from 225. 6d.; Washstands, from 12s. 6d.;
Chests of Drawers, from 405.; Wardrobes, from
80s.; Cedar Cheffoniers, from 30s. ; Cedar Side-
boards, from £3 35.; Clothes Horses, from
Bs. 6d. ; Writing Tables, with drawers, from 255.
V
CE
CHESTS.
ALL SIZES.
PRICES LOW.
NEWTON and LAMB.
fg gf
J^XCELSIOR
UPRIGHT
IMPROVED
REFRIGERATORS.
Various Sizes, from 455.
N
BWTO N AND LAMB.
FURNITURE and PIANOFORTE
WAREHOUSEMEN,
CABINETMAKERS, UPHOLSTERERS
AND
BEDDING MANUFACTURERS.
Show Rooms and Manufactory :
SPRING and O’CONNELL STREETS.
The Death Penalty.
(To the Editor of “ Reynolds's Newspaper.")
SlB, —The respite which has been given to Laurie,
who was lying under sentence of death for the
murder of an unfortunate English tourist in the
Highlands, seems to raise the question whether it
is not time that punishment by death was
abolished in this country for once and all. The
argument lies in a nutshell in the case of Laurie,
as either he was guilty of one of the most cruel
and purposeless murders on record, or he was not.
If he was not guilty, he should not be punished ;
and on the other hand, if he did commit the
crime, he should suffer the punishment arranged
for such offences by the framers of our laws. But
a side issue is pleaded in this case. It is said that
he may have been guilty of the crime, but that if
he was, he was not in a fit state of mind at the
time to know what he was doing. That being so,
it would clearly be unjust to convict him of
murder, and let him suffer the penalty of death.
Why was this not decided at the trial ? There
was then every opportunity of finding out all the
details connected with the case. Anyway, it
should not have been left to a tribunal of public
opinion to say whether a man is in his right mind
or not when he commits a crime. In another re-
cent case, that of Mrs. Maybrick, she was con-
victed and duly sentenced to be hanged. Senti-
ment, however, ran high, and, to use a homely ex-
pression, “Heaven and earth was moved ” to bring
about her respite. She was respited, and now re-
mains a prisoner for life.
After two such cases as these, is it not time that
capital punishment joined the great list of “bar-
barities of an ignorant past,” like the burying of
suicides at cross-roads in the dead of the night,
hanging, drawing, mutilating, and quartering, or
the burning of witches ? There is no doubt it will
come in time, and that future children yet unborn
will read with wonder and astonishment that their
forefathers maintained a hangman at the public
expense, even as we now wonder that our fore-
fathers kept a headsman, whose dictum in the case
of an agitation against the rights of kings was in
every case final. The gibbet is a thing of the past.
Yet in the palmy days of that weird instrument
good old Tories believed it was essentially one of
the bulwarks of the State. It served its purpose
in its rude, rough day, when might—not right—
held the sway. Yet even the creaking gibbet,
with its ghastly cargo of bones and rotting flesh,
did not restrain the highwayman on the lonely
heath from committing robbery and even murder.
It did not restrain the murderer, though it may
have terrified him after the deed. The guillotine,
which received its baptism of blood in the days of
the French Revolution, has not cleared the soil of
France of murderers. There is no country in
which more brutal tortures are committed in the
name of the law than China, yet there are mur-
derers in China at the present day as there were
at any time in the dim and mysterious history of
that wonderful country.
All these things should teach us a lesson. We
should ask ourselves the question whether, incur
enlightened age, with all our vaunted civilisation,
we should still cling to the process of checking
crime which held good in the days of barbarism,
darkness, and ignorance. Murder began with the
earliest history. It forms the first sensational
incident in the Bible; and though murder has
been punished with death in various shapes and
forms ever since, murder is not yet stamped out.
Depend upon it, sir, you cannot prevent murder
by any system of punishment, however terrible,
that the ingenuity of man can introduce. Why ?
Because murder is seldom a crime meditated and
carried out by sane men or sane women. Every
murderer is a madman. His brain is disturbed by
various agencies. Chief amongst the causes
which lead men to take the life of a fellow man
are drink, jealousy, lust, a sense of injustice or
wrong, or some malformation of the brain which
physicians can detect but not describe. When we
remember what a delicate piece of mechanism the
human brain is, and reflect that it is just as liable
to injury, malformation, or fracture as the human
frame, we need no longer wonder that there are
madmen, crotchety men, or simple men in our
midst. I have always looked with a sympathetic
eye upon the murderer. His life must have been
such a terrible experience. His malformed brain
may have been the result of some action on the
Eart of a remote ancestor, just as scrofula can
reak out in the third and fourth generation in
the faces of people pure, innocent, and guiltless of
harm or foul thought or deed on their own part.
The drunkard’s brain is set on fire by drink,
not always because he has imbibed more than his
fellow-man, but simply because, owing to his for-
mation, it is more liable to the ravages of the
alcohic fiend. The fiery spirit surges through the
brain of the drunkard, stimulating the tissue to
deeds of madness.,; The pulses beat until they
would burst with*'excitement. Imaginary or
trifling wrongs become exaggerated in evils of
terrible magnitude. The loving wife’s anxiety for
her husband’s welfare becomes a crime in the
frenzied imagination of the drunkard whose mind
is filled with a wild and ungovernable desire to
beat out her brains or cut her throatf Lust in-
dulged to excess by the weak and senbual-minded
is a fertile source of crime, breeding jealousy and
a mad desire to clear the path of everything that
stops the way to the consummation of its desires.
The sense of injustice or wrong -has been the
powerful factor in many a murder. ' The minds of
some men are constructed with-'a morbid ten-
ancy. Such men are gloomy, sulky, and reti-
cent. They nurse up their wrongs, imaginary
or real, until the sense *of injury has
eaten into _ their souls. Nb' act of kindness,
no explanation, no reasoning or argument
can wipe it out. Nothing but the death of
the wrongdoer can appekse the mind or wipe
out the stain. Even -biter murder the sense
of revenge would go to the extent of mutilating
the corpse, or, as in, the case of a Corsican ven-
detta, extend to the innocent relatives of the
victim. Again, there is the man who is mad. Not
mad enough to be locked up and guarded in an
asylum, but mad enough to be dangerous when he
breaks out and loses control of himself. For such
as these what punishment can avail ? Hang 99
of them before the eyes of the one hundredth, and
he will commit a murder as he returns from the
gallows, thinking he is doing something grand
and truly noble. The poor, betrayed servant-girl
who murders the infant she has jus* given birth
to, is temporarily mad in her terror of shame and
exposure. If nature can, under such circum-
stances, be warped to the extent of setting aside
the most wonderful instinct on earth —the mother’s
love for her offspring—what penalty of death,
however dreadful we may make it, will be sufficient
to restrain her ?
Capital punishment having so signally failed as
a deterrent to the crime of murder, are we not
wrong in continuing it ? Does it not reflect on
our civilisation, upon our boasted progress in the
direction of the angels, that we should still cling
to an instrument which was crude even in the
days of _pur fowjathers ? Tfiejloctrine of.life for
life is one of the oldest in all the old laws of the
ancient world. It was born of a wild spirit of
revenge when men did not reflect or reason. To
show now the spirit of vengeance permeated the
death-penalty we have only to look at the crimes
which were once punishable by death. The forger
and the sheepstealer, like the spy and the poacher
in the deer forests of the King, were alike amen-
able to capital punishment. I might even go
further and say that a nameless crime which has
recently attracted much attention in aristocratic
circles, was, if it is not now, a capital offence.
Yet these have all given way, fallen into desue-
tude, or been expunged from the Statute Book.
Murder alone remain. [There are in N.S. Wales
twenty-two offences punishable by death.] How
long will it be ere we arise like civilised beings
ancf sweep this last remnant of barbarism on one
side?
The great fear in the minds of many thinking
and righteous men is that if the punishment of
death were repealed, murder would run rampant
through the land. I do not join in that opinion
myself. It has been shown that hanging, decapi-
tation, or even quartering is nd deterrent. Then
why keep up the fallacy ? Murder brings its own
punishment—far more terrible than the dread of
the hangman’s rope—that is, the punishment of
conscience. Many a murderer gladly hails the
friendly blow that sets him free. I would set
aside one gaol for all murderers, as it is desirable
that they should be removed from the community
of their fellow-men. It should be called the
“ Prison of Murderers.” This place in course of
time would have greater terrors than the gallows,
for its inmates would know that they were dead as
far as the world is concerned.
NORTHUMBRIAN.
Mr. Cox M.P., who ought to know, having
been in gaol five times, says that Irish political
offenders are compelled to sleep for the first month
of their imprisonment on the “plank bed,” as
naked as the floor itself, and for the first three
days they receive for food only Boz. of bread and
a pint of water each meal, while they are allowed
no communication, with- the outside world what-
ever, being denied the luxury of seeing their
friends or even the use of writing materials or any
paper or book save the Bible. They have also to
wear the convict garb.
Vicar-General Fitzpatrick, in age and
residence probably the oldest R.C. priest in the
Australias, has just died aged 80. The “ Dean,”
as he was popularly called, came to Sydney at the
urgent request of Bishop Ullathorne in 1837, and
in 1847 went to Melbourne, where he has re-
mained ever since. Until Archbishop Carr’s
arrival he was practically Bishop of Melbourne,
as Doctor Goold, after enjoying a hearty break-
fast of oysters and stout, generally felt inclined
for a nap. The “ opposition ” Dean—the Dr.
M'Cartney (Anglican) - still holds out and is quite
chirpy at the venerable age of 91.
Sir Redmond Barry, though in general
a most polite man, was sometimes most over-
bearing to attorneys and their clerks. One day
the eccentric “Jack” Edwards, then serving
irticles, had business in Chambers before Barry.
An application to “enlarge a rule ” under certain
circumstances was made, and Barry granted it.
“Jack” in a stage whisper to a friend declared
that in all his experience he had never known a
rule enlarged under such circumstances. “ Then,
sir,” thundered Barry, who overheard him, “I
will have the pleasure of enlarging the rule and
your experience at the same time.”
Few Sydney hotels are more centrally
situated than Roberts’, and it is also one of the
best-appointed hotels in the colonies and second
to none as a first-class family and commercial
hotel. The private suites and reception-rooms
are all that could be desired. The kitchen is at
the top of the building, and this renders the
absence of all culinary smells gratefully con-
spicuous. Water and the electric light are laid
on in each bedroom, and the average height of
the rooms is 17ft. The staircase is one of the
finest in Australia, but the elevator is, as a rule,
the chief means of ascension. This hotel is pro-
vided with bath-rooms on each floor, and has two
beautifully-furnished billiard rooms and numerous
sitting and smoking rooms.
Between Park and Bathurst Streets, in
Pitt-street and nearly opposite the
Y.M.C.A., is situated Messrs. J. and C. Howard’s
Implement Depot. The most novel implements
are Howard’s new digging,ploughs, single, double,
or riding, which prepare a seed-bed completely
pulverised, without the subsequent aid of harrows,
while turning a furrow 14 inches wide. No flat
coulters are required, the reversible shin piece
taking their place, while a large skin coulter takes
off and buries all surface grass and rubbish. The
mould boards are short in turn, which give
phenomenal lightness of draught, and at
the same time, they are made of a peculiar
metal with a face like glass, which prevents
clogging in sticky ground. The share con-
sists of a small spud point which can be turned
about till worn right back and only costs six-
pence. Added to this other attachments for doing
the old-fashioned style of ploughing can be fitted
in a few moments. As to the other ploughs,
single furrows from the little Eagle wooden
{ dough up to a dam sinker can be had. In two
urrows, from the light two handled two furrow
plough of the west to the heavy Governor steerage
of the south. The disc harrows require no pole,
swivel-wheels taking-their place, with an adjust-
ment in the centre for making the harrow culti-
vate that piece of ground between the two gangs
usually left uncultivated. Among other items we
notice the Zig-zag steel simplex narrow, the new
patent radial chaffcutter, large straw-cutters, some
new harvesting machinery, the new Anglo-Ameri-
can rake, the light Orient rake, while duplicate
parts of everything sold can be had on the
premises.
Speaking of a policeman who suicided
recently, an Adelaide paper says “ And he now
deeps at the bottom of the gulf.” This is a pretty
leep sleep even for a policeman.
A ship’s cook appeared before a Melbourne
suburban court last week to answer a charge of
having assaulted a sailor with a jam pudding.
He was not fined. The Bench considered he had
no homicidal intentions, or he would have given
the man the pudding to eat.
A prisoner escaped from Ingham (Q.)
lockup and then returned and robbed the presid-
ing constable of all his best clothes, some bread
and beer and revolvers. This story is true despite
the air of wild improbability lent to it by the idea
of a Queensland constable being robbed of beer.
Mr. Hargreaves, discoverer of gold in Aus-
tralia, used to tell the following story of a gold-
find in Victoria :—A blackfellow, employed on a
station near one of the earliest diggings, came to
his master one day in great excitement, saying he
knew where to get a sackful of white man’s gold.
The master went along with him, and at the foot
of a perpendicular rock they found a mass of the
precious metal, like grease at the bottom of a can-
dlestick, which weighed about one cwt. The gold
was taken away and the rock was crushed but did
not pay expenses. The gold appeared to have
been melted out of it and run to the bottom in a
mass.
Captain Bennett, of Mount Perry, Reed's
Creek, and several other places in Northern
Queensland, has at last given up actual mining
and gone into harness as a civil servant. No man
in Australia has been more closely identified with
the copper-mining industry, or worked harder
through good seasons and bad to keep Queens-
land’s name on the current market. Sometimes
he had 1000 men under him, and sometimes his
army dwindled down to 100 or 200, but his faith
in the ultimate success of the fields he worked
never gave out. He was a born manager of men.
When the shareholders, most of them from the
South, with a few from England, would shorten
the cash allowance, the Captain would invite his
men to meet him in the local School of Arts, the
Wesleyan Church, or some such place, and,
mounting the pulpit or platform, would ex-
plain the situation with such suavity, sin-
cerity, and sorrow that four or five hundred
voices would answer: “Never mind, Capting ;
we’ll give you the next three months for ‘ sis ’ —
just what’ll allow tucker.” So these shareholders
must have had many thousands of pounds’ worth
of work done at their mines for comparatively
little. It is true they did not make by it, for
it has been found that Queensland cannot compete
with Chili and other places while the demand for
copper is as weak as at present, but they stood to
make. Captain Bennett was in early life a Wes-
leyan parson, and still holds forth on Sundays
when a chance is given. In politics he is so
enthusiastic a MTlwraithian as to be almost a
partisan. He is an advocate for the use of black
labour on the sugar plantations, and is in favour
of squatting interests generally. Notwithstanding
these views he is popular and influential among
miners of all classes, and few men in Queensland
can play an audience to the purpose he wants with
greater skill or adroitness. The position he has
now received is in the Mining Department.


rn H E MURPHYS
(PAT and ELLA).
Their engagement with Mr. Harry Rickards
will terminate on the Bth of June, 1890. They
will then proceed to London, in wliich city they
will appear at the Trocadero, Canterbury,
Paragon and Queen’s (Poplar) Music Halls on
Bank Holiday (4th August). Their engagements
will extend to eight weeks. Engagements in
America will then follow with Williams and
Kernel!’s Comedy Co., the Murphys being engaged
to that firm at the largest salary ever-paid to two
artists in their capacity.
Agent for London—Fred. Higham, 143Stanford-
street, S.C.
Remember! The Murphys have-an extensive
repertoire. , '
/COUNTRY STOREKEEPERS, ETC.
Should write or call upon
A. M. MARKS & CO.,
—lmporters of—
Furniture, 'Glass, Earthenware,
CHINA, FANCY ELECTRO PLATE,
(IGAKS A TOKAIST* SUNDRIES.
v SOLE AGENTS.
Dawn Cigars and Salonica Turk&h Cigarettes.
Special Novelties in all Lines for Christmas Trade.
Prices on Application to —
-A.. M. Maries & 00.,
Vickery’s Buildings, 74a Pitt Streeet, Sydney,
AND AT LONDON.
Telephone, No. 919.
Ask for the
Unequalled
DAWN” 3d. CIGAR,
g fg
Of all
Tobacconists,
Store
AND
Hotel
KEEPERS.
Wholesale Agents: A. M. MARKS & Co., 74a PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Dawson
DAWSON'S
Sole Agents for Australasia
VAUGHAN, ROGERS & CO.,
(Opposite G.P.0.)
108 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
p
E
R
F
E
C
T
I
O
N
WHISKY.
SUB-AGENTS WANTED
IN THE
PRINCIPAL CENTRES
THROUGHOUT AUSTRALASIA.
LGATE it
1
mi
s m
m o <g>
Jjj W (^)
fe M -fa
GCS rw]
(ill KU
53
|sL 35 i§)
wingM
jP'CH, CREAM
?lose lath
Colgate's Cashmere Bouquet Toilet Soap
Is made with the utmost care from materials
selected with the
Greatest Regard for Purity,
And for the soothing and beneficial effect which
they impart to the skin and the complexion.
GJ-old Medal, Paris, 1889
“ Unequalled in Quality and Perfume.”
To be obtained from all Chemists and Dealers
in Perfumery. Take no substitute.
EVERYONE KNOWS, who shaves himself,
how exasperating it is, after having lathered his
face, to take up his razor to shave and find his
lather dried and his beard stiffer than ever. This
will not happen when COLGATE’S DEMUL-
CENT SHAVING SOAP is used. Why?
Because the lather it makes is close and stays on
the face. Once made, it does not disappear and
leave the face dry, but is creamy soft to the skin
and permanent. Gentlemen interested will be
glad to learn that consignments of this elegant
toilet preparation are to hand, and it may be
obtained from all leading chemists and dealers in
toilet requisites. Those who have never had the
pleasurable experience of using it should lose no
time in doing so.
The Referee.
Tradition, the big Richmond colt, who cost
such a lot at auction, is not entered for the Newmarket or
Australian Cup. Last year he was thought to he a great
thing for Melbourne Cup, but evidently was not (it. The
Cup this year will probably be his mark, but how many
are already laying by for the rich stake ?
* * *
Slavin, the boxer, who is a good business man
and has made a great deal of money, is to be married in
London on 12th February-and thus the wedding-ring
will remove him from the boxing-ring—into a pub., pro-
bably. This intelligence—without the ingenious reflec-
tions above printed-is cabled to the S.M. Herald. How
the world does move ! Just imagine old John Fairfax
arising from the grave and reading a leaded long-primer
telegram about a prize-fighter’s betrothal in his paper !
Since the old man left this vale of tears, either the prize-
fighting has gone up or the Herald has begun to palter
with unrighteousness.
* # *
The S.M. Herald has arrived at the conclusion
that horse-racing in N.S.W. is a thoroughly corrupt insti-
tution and that one of the best means of purifying the
turf is to insist on all inquiries concerning alleged crooked
racing being open to the press. The Herald is here right.
About two-thirds of those who Jive on and by means of
the turf are ruffians, loafers, vultures. In ordinary life
when a man is accused of a crime, a report of his trial
appears in the press, and when he is honourably acquited
the report emphasises his officially-declared innocence.
If, however, he escapes through mere technicalities, or on
a practically riot-proven basis, then people become aware of
it, and form their own conclusions about him. Why should
those turf-swindlers who are so fortunate as to escape by
the skin of their teeth have the evidence which morally
damns, though it may not legally acquit them, suppressed ?
And why should the judges, too many of whom are them-
selves mixed up in betting transactions and who occasion-
ally number among them men of piebald character, be
permitted to hold court in secret and mayhap da""i the
characters of men less guilty than themselves ?
* * *
The chief features of the intercolonial cricket
match, so far as The Bulletin’s representative had oppor-
tunity to view it, were the fine halting of Sanimy Jones,
whose century was obtained without a chance, the sound
innings of Blackham, always there when most wanted,
the free hitting of Turner, and the damnably wearisome
stonewalling of Bannerman and Dr. Barrett. ' Bannerman
scored at the rate of ten in an hour, and once allowed an
hour to go by almost without scoring, the brace of singles
that followed from his bat being received with ironical
applause. Dr. Barrett’s scoring was even slower. These
stickers maybe useful, but they don’t draw the multitude.
By the bye, the Melbourne men, a la Hopetoun probably,
are nearly all clean-shaven, and their plump, raw beefy,
smooth faces looked quite Hinglish, doncherknow.
* * *
On December 16 the London Referee said in
reference to the death of Searle Friends, after all, is
it so sad a death ? What about its antipodes ? Take the
case of an erewhile champion, accustomed to all the
attentions, public applause, and other glories of success,
not to mention the intoxicating pleasures of the successes
themselves. Let us suppose poor Ssarle himself ten years
older than he was, and long enough tenant of the pre-
miership to look on many an expensive luxury as a neces-
sary ; then picture him knocked out by rivals, gradually
sliding down the scale, and rendered of no account, as is
the custom in New South Wales by the rising stars. Con-
trast the feelings of the deposed champion, his money
and friends gone, stricken down, and the recent victor’s.”
Exactly the sentiments expressed by The Bulletin the
very same week.
* * *
J. T. Ritchie, the English amateur sprinter,
must be a peculiarly built man. Only sft. 6in. high, and
he weighs nearly 13st. in condition.
# * *
Malcolm Ford, the all-round American athlete,
now editor of Turf, Field and Farm, is revising the re-
cords, rejecting, among other doubtful performances,
Myers’ lOsecs. for 100 yards and sisecS. for 50 yards.
* * *
Pedestrian Hempton (amateur), of N.Z., was
lately credited with a wonderful sprint performance
which is now outdone by that of a Mr. Bain, credited by
the Akaroa Mail with having run 93 yards in B|secs.
There are more good runners than watch-holders.
# * #
All the English illustrated papers have portraits
and obituary notices of Searle.
* * *
The Argus says that Harry Trott, of Victoria,
isthe best batsman in Australia.
* * *
The recently-arrived Bubear talks of a match
with Laycock. Such resurrection matches would only
suit the day of General Judgment.
* * #
Some enterprising people have been taking up
informal contributions to the Searle monument fund and
putting them into their own pockets. Only those in
possession of official lists and uniformed commissionaires
with numbered boxes are authorised to collect.
The Australian Light-Weight
Championship.
The glove-fight at Foley’s Hall, Sydney,
last week, between Baxter, light-weight champion
of England, and Burge, light-weight champion of
Sydney, created a good deal of stir in scientific
and literary circles. There was a large attendance,
consisting of all sorts, from great men, such as
professional pugilists and horse-trainers, down to
members of Parliament, Ministers, ex-Ministers,
and other riff-raff. The Sydney boxer, Burge, is
known as “ Iron-bark,” and the “ Iron Man,” and
so forth, because he is so infernally hard. He is
a compact miggety man, 38 years of age, and
possessed of a wife and seven children. He has
great strength, his body, chest, and arms being
covered with rolls of muscle hard as adamant;
his face looks as if it had been tomahawked by a
shingle-splitter out of an iron-bark stump, and by
the size of his neck we should say he takes a 25-
inch collar. He can’t box, being terribly slow
and awkward, but it takes a hurricane-fighter to
beat him, because he will receive any amount of
punishment and keep on pegging away until he
wears his man down. He has fought many good
men, and they generally begin to belt at his
wooden head, but finding they can make no im-
pression in that quarter, they change the.r
tactics and whizz their scientific rights and
their terrible lefts into his ribs, but the
Iron-man bulges along, and generally comes out
ahead. Such being the Sydney representative,
there was great excitement to see the English-
man—and when Baxter entered the ring a regular
gasp of surprise went round the room. This the
English champion lightweight! A smooth, white
delicate-skinned youth, with thin arms, and show-
ing no muscle at all, he was much less like a pro-
fessional boxer than he was like an angel. While
the crowd marvelled and wondered where he ex-
pected to have any chance with Burge, a well-
known bookmaker got up and roared out, “ Here’s
six to four on Baxter !” It looked as if it should
have been six hundred to four the other way, and
the talent began to take the odds freely ; a lot of
racing men were there, and they were so used to
taking six to four about one horse’s chance in a big
field that it looked quite a gift to get six to four
about one man’s chance in a two-man fight.
# * *
As soon as they commenced, Baxter showed
great cleverness, while the other man was simply
grotesque in his clumsy slowness. Burge had a
“death or glory ” look on his mug, while the Eng-
lishman seemed absolutely at his ease. It was
evidently a match between a very scientific man
without much strength, and a very strong man
without much science. Burge used to rush at him
and clout the air wildly, while Baxter moved
about with the greatest calmness, now and
again sending in a vicious stab or uppercut, but
never trying to force matters. He is evidently a
competition boxer, a man whose game is a four-
round spar for points. Although a lot of yahoos
at the fight were of opinion that Baxter couldn’t
fight any more than a chicken, he showed wonder-
ful neatness. In a spar for points we belifeve he
might beat any man in Sydney ; to a finish there
are any number of men in Sydney to beat him.
* * *
As matters went on the crowd outside began
to get demonstrative ; the admission was a pound
a head, which, of course, kept out the “black-red
push,” the “liver push,” and the Surry Hills
talent, and these youths, moved to frenzy by the
shouting and clapping inside, made a determined
rush at the door. For a few seconds it seemed a
certainty that they would force their way in, but
the cry was “Foley to the Front,” and the stal-
wart Larry, armed with a chair, stood in the door-
way like brave Horatius at the gate and hit out
right and left and soon pacified them, and the door
A MEMORY OF CHRISTMAS, 1889.
was at length closed. After this diversion the
outside crew turned their attention to the roof,
and how they got up there Heaven knows, but in
a few minutes the roof was laden with human
beings, and the fierce larrikin faces in hun-
dreds glared down through the long row
of skylights. By-and-bye one of them broke
a pane and sent a lot of heavy window-
glass crashing down among the audience, and
then an alarm was raised that the roof was
giving way and a stampede ensued. Have you
ever sat under a galvanised-iron roof supported by
frail rafters and heard about a thousand larrikins
stampeding across it ? We charged for the largest
Eillar in the room and said prayers faster than a
orse could trot. Baxter was very nervous and
thought the roof was coming in on him ; however,
Mr. Eoley’s architecture stood the strain and the
fight proceeded.
# # #
For about eighteen rounds the same
game went on, Baxter just plugging in now and
again at his opponent, while the other man bored
in at him and kept, in his awkward way, trying
to force matters. About the eighteenth round
Baxter started to do some hitting, and he went in
for a good give-and-take rally with his opponent,
and then there arose loud cheers for the English
ash and counter cheers for the Australian ironbark.
When the round was over the ironbark man—
though slightly dazed and showing for the, first
time traces of weariness—was not scratched,
bruised or marked in any way, while his opponent
had his lip up about four sizes, one eye damaged and
his wrist hurt. Even then he could have f&ayed ,
the fight out and made a draw by husbanding
his strength, 'as Burge was too awkward and
slow even ;tb knock him out, and Jack Thomp-
son told his seconds as much ; but they said he
would fight in his own way and he started in again
to try aiijfl rally his opponent out. That was just
what Burge wanted. There are some racehorses
who are said to look lonely without a cart, and
Burge is a pugilist who feels lonely and out of
sorts in a ring unless some one is belting him about
the head. As soon as Baxter started to slam at
him, Burge began to feel happy and hammered
away with great effect: his iron frame showed no
signs of fatigue while his clever and plucky
opponent was evidently weakening. A couple of
spanking blows on the side of Baxter’s head made
him groggy, and in the twenty-second round he
was so obviously a beaten man that it was no use
keeping him in the ring any longer, and his
seconds threw up the sponge. The bookmaker
who was laying the odds on Baxter is believed to
have been simply executing a commission for
Baxter’s backers, who were Englishmen. Anyhow
the colonials won the fight, and the money, and
the championship, and they proved that the iron-
bark is a better tree than the ash anyway you
take it; so, with a buzz of talk and asseverations
that there were plenty of men in Sydney who
could put their fist clean through Baxter, the
crowd rolled out into the daylight, and another
championship was gathered into the Australian
collection.
Premier Gillies has reduced by £l6OO per
annum the amount of the allowances attached to
Governor Hopetoun’s position as compared with
the amount received by the three preceding
Governors.
The Sydney banks prosper. The Commer-
cial pays no less than 25 per cent., carries £lO,OOO
to reserve, and holds back an undivided balance,
£15,250 Is. 9d., evidently ashamed to divide it.
Even Uncle Abigail’s little Institoot pays 10 per
shent.
Rev. R. N. Shutte, a Portsmouth (Eng.)
parson has just given his reasons for separating
the male and female worshippers in his church :
(1.) That it is an old custom.
(2.) That it diverts the attention of a man to sit behind
a bonnet. .
(3.) That women wear tight-fitting dresses and scanty
underclothing.
(4.) That men if seated near women will think of studies
of the female figure.
(5.) That a girl, if 'seated near young men, will be
tempted to do things that we cannot talk of.
(6.) That the Church knows nothing of family arrange-
ments, and cannot recognise the desire of a husband and
wife to worship together.
Roses are selling at a penny a bunch in
London and starved-out gardeners are sleeping
under the arches of London bridge.
WHAT EXPERIENCE TEACHES
IS BEST.
There is something to consider in the daily ex-
penses for the household necessities, which in the
aggregate of the year amount to a good deal. The
ethics of buying and selling seem to be for the
vendor to get all he can, and for the purchaser to
see that he don’t get too much. But what is too
much? It is almost a profound question, and
presents the strange paradox that the dearest in
many things is often the cheapest. Certainly
this is so in food, when health is involved, and in
remedies which restore health after it has been
impaired. It is certainly so in clothing; for a
cheap suit that will hardly last one season is
dearer than the one which will last two seasons,
the difference in price being reasonable. So in
shoes, and the like. Recurring to the items of
food and health, undoubtedly the most important,
it is found that villainous adulteration is what
renders it cheaper in much that is sold, and men
are known who have spent thousands to be cured
of disease, have suffered years of agony, and have
trifled away their substance on worthless reme-
dies. That which is testified to by thousands
as being an absolute cure, and permanently
efficacious, is cheap at any price in comparison
with such as have no virtue, and which prolong
suffering. A case in point is the following:—
“New Bloomfield, Pa., April 26, 1886. The
Charles A. Vogeler Co., Baltimore, Md. Gentle-
men,—For more than thirty years I had been
afflicted with rheumatism so severe I had to use
morphine to secure rest at night. Spent hundreds
of dollars with physicians and for remedies with-
out benefit. Five years ago I tried St. Jacobs oil,
and it effected an entire and permanent cure. I
have not been troubled with it since. Cold or
damp weather does not affect me at all. I desire
to give it my unqualified endorsement. —J. E.
Bonsall, clerk of the several Courts of Perry
County, Pa.” The point here is not so much
what Mr. Bonsall paid for the great remedy for
pain, forthe price is a mere bagatelle, butthathewas
permanently cured after 30 years’ suffering. Of
course the poor must count the cost in everything ;
but they should reckon on the sound basis that
that which is bad is worthless, and that which is
the best and will cure, and keen cured, is cheap at
any price.
A BROADCAST BLESSING.
The educational force of the Waterbury Watch
has been felt all over the world. America, Europe,
Asia, Africa and all Australasia have shared in its
civilising and encouraging impulse. The peasant
of the Russian Empire, the Kirghis on the steppes
of Asia, the Arab horseman of the desert, and the
Egyptian Fellaheen upon the Nile can, and do
boast, of a timekeeper, which for utility, accuracy,
and rough service is the peer of, and often more to
be relied upon, than any elaborately jewelled
pocket-piece carried by the nobility or richer
classes of their respective countrymen. In Japan,
throughout India, in the forests of Brazil, upon
the plains of Buenos Ayres, and into the furthest
back-blocks of Australia the Waterbury Watch
has found its way, and wherever the people are
industrious there the Waterbury Watches are
worn ; there the people are daily becoming more
punctual, enterprising, and successful.
THE DOWNFALL OF A HUMBUG.
The day of the “ cheap Swiss Watch ” has gone
by. It is ill-fitting—roughly made, not inter-
changeable, and when once out of order, rarely, if
ever, susceptible of satisfactory repairs. The
country has been flooded with those implements,
hut, gigantic as this importation has been, they
must yield to the superior merits of American
watches. The very first watch produced by the
Waterbury Watch Company sounded the death
knell of the Swiss atrocities. In 1889 the battle
had been won, and the days of unreliable time-
pieces practically numbered. The modern David
of American genius and accuracy has, by force of
intrinsic merit, caused the downfall of the Swiss
Philistine of cheap horological humbug.


MASON BROTHERS,
M
LIMITED.
263 to 269 KENT STREET,
SYDNEY,
Have always in Stock for Sale to the
Trade and Wholesale' Buyer* Only,
Ironmongery, and
GENERAL HARDWARE
(■lass, China and
EARTHENWARE.
WINES, BEERS & SPIRITS,
AND GENERAL
BULK MERCHANDISE.
Agents for
JOHN WALKER; and SONS
Old Highland Whisky.
J. SORIN and CO.’S
Cognac.
J. T. GAYEN’S,
Schnapps and Geneva.
A. MELVIN and SONS’
Edinburgh Pale Ale.
SMITH, U.S.A.,
MEDICAL EXPERT
In PRIVATE COMPLAINTS of BOTH SEXES.
A Prompt and Safe Cure Guaranteed.
Hours : ... From IX a.m. till 4 p.ra.
KEKTRY KIWG-,
PHOTO-SCENIC ARTIST,
316 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Is constantly adding' fresh subjects to his Im-
mense Stock of Australian and New Zealand
Views, comprising every variety of subject taken
crom Nature unadorned and Art glorified.
Marine Views and Landscapes,
Mountains and Caves,
Crack Yachts and Cathedrals,
Old Identities and Young Australians,
Everyday Sights and Stirring Incidents,
Stereo, and l.antern Slides,
High-class Portraiture.
Catalogues on Application.
31G George St, between limiter ami King ,St«.
Nos. 7 & 8 First Floor, 482 GEORGE STREET,
SYDNEY.
CONSULTING ROOMS:
SPECI A L T. Y
fg
f
gf
EVERY
DESCRIPTION'
HAIR WORK DONE
%
%
a?
so
PRIVATE,
ROOMS
ladies
'22*24
ROYAL ARCADE"
MELBOURNE
THE WONDERFUL
VICTORIA” ORCANETTE.
gf
rhe Most Marvellous Musical Instrument ia
the World.
A £3 Instrument for Only £1 15s.
W* are the Sole Proprietor! of this WONDERFUL and
FIRST-CLASS OROANETTE. It is a Reed Instrument and is
constructed on the game principle as an Organ with Bellows,
and Full Sized Reeds. The uuisio consists of perforated sheets,
which are put into the Organette, furnishing either Finished
Solo Performance, a Rich Accompaniment to the Voice, or
Valuable Orchestral Effects. They are marvels of Musics.
Invention, and combine in themselves a!I the principles upon
which automatic Organs. Organettes, Ac., are now being made,
requiring no skill in the performer. Any child old enough to
use its hands intelligently can play, and the Range of Uusic ia
Absolutely Unlimited.
We wish to introduce one of these Organettes in every tewn
snd parish throughout the Australian Colonics, and in order to
do go speedily have concluded to sell a Limited Number to tha
readers of this paper at ONLY £ll6s. each, but your order must
be received on or before May Ist, 1890, as we shall place tha
O.rganctte at £3 each after that date. We will positively not
sell more than ONE OROANETTE to any one person at this
reduced price, as wo only make thjs unprecedented offer to
introduce this First-Class Organette throughout the world,
well knowing that after one i's received m a neighbourhood wa
will sell several at Our Regular Price.
We are the Solo Proprietors of THE WONDERFUL
' VICTORIA” OROANETTE, and you must order direct from
us, or through our Authorised Agents Remember, the Won-
derful ••Victoria” Organettes are Large and Powerful
Instruments, built in the most durable style, highly polished
and decorated in Gold ; the Reeds being so powerful that they
produce sufficient volume of music for the Chapel, Parlour,
Lodge, Ball Room or Picnio Party. There is nothing about
them to get out of orders in fact, they produce a richer and
nvoeter sound after havmgbecn used a few years. For Home
Entertainments they are Unsurpassed.
The Illustration will give you but a faint Idea of Six*
and Finish of this beautiful instrument, but we wilt return the
money and pay carriage to any one whole not perfectly satisfied
after receiving it. It Sings its Own Praises, with each
Organette we enclose aselect ion of popular tunes Free, end pack
all in a strong box. If you are in Melbourne at any time, call
an us, or if you have friends living here, you can request them
to call and purchase for you. If you wish to act as an agent
for us. send AT ONCE and seeure the agency for your section.
Ton Can Easily Bell the Instruments at £3 to £4 Each.
Hundreds of Testimonials Received. Send money by Registered
Letter, Money Order, Draft, or Postal Note.
COUPON.—ThI* Coupon will entitle the holder to
one of the Wonderful "VICTORIA " ORGAN ETTEB,
provided it is sent With £1 15s. end order, not later than
May let, 1890, No order will be accepted without
this Coupon, unlessfull price, £3, ii sent. XI 1S«. Ineludei
all charges for carnage by railway, steamboat, “each,
or carrier, all over Australia. ;
(Signed) The Victoria Manufacturing and Importing Co.
Address or call on the Victoria Manufacturing'
and Importing Co., 256 Collins St., Melbourne,
X
<e
O/CTu
£St
T O YOUKTG MEST.
DR. FLETCHER’S
TREATISE ON NERVOUS DISEASES, THEIR CAUSE,
SYMPTOMS, TREATMENT, AND CURE.
'T'HE directions contained in this little treatise will be
_ found of immense benefit to the sufferer; and if these
directions are observed during the early stages of Nervous
or Sexual Debility, Vo Medicines still he required, as, by
observing the directions given, the patient can Cure Him-
self.
This- admirable little treatise is specially written to
show a method of counteracting the evil effects of indis-
cretions in early life—overwork, irregularity in eating or
drinking, &c. It is the result of much study and long
and successful experience in the treatment of diseases,
and contains a fund of useful information to every suf-
ferer from the following complaints, viz.:—Nervous
Debility, Dizziness, Specks before the Eyes, Pains in the
Back, Defective Memory, Loss of Will Power, Loss of
Energy, Spermatorrhoea, BashTulness, Diseontentedness,
Constipation, Liver and Kidney Derangements, Atrophy,
Impotence, Impure Blood, Foul Taste in Mouth, Palpita-
tion of Heart, Wakefulness, Despondency, Excessive Ner-
vousness, Inability to Marry, Premature Decay, and other
33Tnptoms experienced by nervous sufferers.
All Should Send for this Little Treatise.
If the- complaint is of long standing and requires
medicine, Dr. Fletcher will GUARANTEE TO CURE
ANY CASE OF NERVOUS or SEXUAL DEBILITY
with ONE COURSE OF MEDICINES LASTING FIVE
WEEKS, and will send with medicines A WRITTEN
GUARANTEE to cure same or return the monies paid.
Dr. Fletcher’s treatment is both simple and effective,
and within the reach of the poorest. It is unlike any
other, and with it he has cured over 25,000 patients, and
Invites patients to investigate his statements by verifying
the testimonials published in his treatise. The treatise
will be forwarded on receipt at two stamps to cover
postage.
CONSULTATION BY LETTER, FREE.
Address in first instance—
DR. h. EWART FLETCHER,
Box 1417, 0.P.0.
Sydney, N.S.W.
Private address—Clonmel House, Waverley, Sydney.
Remember, all cases undertaken, guaranteed, and a
signed agreement given, which provides that NO COST
be incurred by the patient if a cure is not effected.
VARICOCELE RADICALLY CURED WITHOUT
OPERATION.
Mention this Paper.
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
Everybody says—and what everybody says must be true
—that Pemell’s Snow white Patent Roller Flour is the
best in the market.
Write for plans £lO Building sites, Perth,
Western Australia. Intercolonial Investment
Company, Limited, 96 Bathurst-street, Sydney.
Special Advertisements.
JOHN BRIDGE & CO.,
CIRCULAR QUAY, SUSSEX STREET, A
DARLING HARBOUR,
WOOL BROKERS,
Hides, Tallow, Sheepskins, Kangaroo, Bear and
Opossum Skins, Ac.
AUCTIOUEBES.
ORA-lIXT SA.LESM:E3V.
3DR. SPEER’S
AMERICAN DISPENSARY
3 X Yor It Stre e t.
P.O. Box 920.
Dr. Speer is a regular Graduated Physician, educated at
Harvard College, U.S. (for confirmation see New Zealand
Gazette, January 21st, 1886; also New South Wales
Gazette, April 17th, 1888). The doctor has devoted 14
years to the study of CHRONIC, NERVOUS, AND
SPECIAL DISEASES. Four of these were in the leading
hospitals of the United States, which enables him to treat
all complaints with excellent results. All applying to
him will receive his honest opinion of their complaints.
No experimenting ;no Mercury used. He will guarantee
a positive cure in every case he undertakes, or forfeit
£2OO. His reason for doing so is this—when there is not
organic disease, and nothing but an inorganic trouble, or,
in other words, a conglomeration of symptoms producing
a certain result, there is no reason why it cannot be re-
moved with the proper remedies, therefore he guarantees.
He wishes it distinctly understood that he does not claim
to perform impossibilities, or to have miraculous power
he claims only to be a skilled and successful physician
thoroughly informed in his speciality—CHßONlC and
SPECIAL DISEASES op MEN and WOMEN. People
residing at a distance can, by explaining their troubles in
detail be treated at home. The course of treatment will
not in any way interfere with their business. Examina-
tion and advice free to all. Charges moderate. H. J.
Speer, M D., 31 York-street, Sydney. Post Office Box,
No. 920. Office hours, 10 a.m. 012 a.m. 2to 4 and 7
to 8 p.m. Sundays from 10 to 11 a.m. only.
I .... V‘
■ ’ • ■;, - ’ • . -,■ *'■ ..■
■ ‘ r : : . ■ .
*.;V
A-’ ■.
r/
■m
w
vaij
rD-
fM
ox
i.-:
i w •1.. ;
■■' /'. Vj
WBBi
’ ■■ ■’ v-
x : *- >. • rwSVTfI^WS*
Il£Cr«lC PMDTD-fNC. M, $ MiOCE-ST.. SYDNEY.
The Oxford Hotel, King Street, Sydney.
H. THORPE ... ... ... Proprietor.
JONES’ SEWING MACHINES,
FOR THE BOOT AND TAILORING TRADES.
The Best Manufacturing Machines in Existence* ,
Now Perfected, the New No. 3 and No. 4 Machines on an Entirely new System |
* ' STOCK JUST LAUDI3JG,
Farlelg'li, IXTettlielm, & 00.
16
TANNERS
X YORK x H! ».:■ i• ) x
Sole Agents for the above for New South Wales and Queensland.
AND LEATHER MERCHANTS,
STREET, x SYDNEY.
-(x)-
ALSO Importers o| Requisites far the BOOT MANUFACTURING TRADE in 'all Details including MAfmwpnv
IMPORTED LEATHERS, &c. ; and of the following Si'kcial Links: IVerlesn *Nul i ’
Itlarklug. Tanners' Tools anti Materials. Indents Executed on Favourable X,, * ,,an
Medical.
DR. RICHARDS
ROOWS
LTI
CONSU
DR. RICHARDS »
smiumiuMuiu
Twill
fiffl
1
CB
This eminent Specialist, Founder, and Chief
Surgeon of the long-established and favourably-
known Dispensary that now bears his name, re-
ceived his medical education in the leading college 3
and hospitals of Europe, lie has devoted a life-
time to the study of
PRIVATE, NERVOUS, AND SKIN
DISEASES.
He has by profound research thoroughly investi-
gated their origin, traced their deadly sources and
insidious dissemination, and ascertained the surest
and safest methods by which they may be eradi-
cated, with these widely recognised qualifications
combined with unswerving faithfulness to hi)
patients, he has during his practice, extending
over FORTY YEARS, attained a well-deserved
pre-eminence in their treatment. Ills practice
embraces d'ssases which probably cause more un-
happiness than any other class of troubles that
afflict mankind.
YOUNG MEN
who suffer from the results of early follies, trans
gressions or excesses of more nature age, bladder
difficulties, a whitish or dark ropy sediment in
the water, accompanied by slight burning or
smarting sensation, Headaches, Drowsiness during
the day, circles round the eyes, Giddiness,
irregularity of the bowels, specks before the eyes,
bashfulness, discontentedness, weakness or pains
in the back, Liver or kidney complaints, dreams,
buzzing noises in the ears and head, pimples, a
fear that something dreadful is about to happen,
w r eak stomach, yellow or blood-shot eyes, impure
blood, hasty, uncontrollable temper, hacking
cough, who cannot marry, nervousness in society,
wakefulness, palpitation of the heart, general
weakness, and other symptoms which lead to in-
sanity and death, should consult him, for he has
mastered these difficulties. On receipt of 6d. in
stamps he will send secure from observation in a
plain wrapper, postage
FREE, A LARGE CLOTH-BOUND
BOOK.
Showing plainly how all diseases of the private or
nervous system may be cured thoroughly and per-
manently without unnecessary expence. This
book will prove a valuable companion, and even
though you be perfectly well its general inform-
tion and prescription may assist you in restoring
some poor friend to health even after his case has
been pronounced incurable by his medical at-
tendant.
ONE POUND IS SUFFICIENT TO
SEND
for Remedies necessary for the cure of NER-
VOUS DEBILITY. Should you require medical
treatment, as procrastination is sometimes dan-
gerous, it would be advisable for you to sit down
quietly in your chamber and write to the doctor,
detailing every experienced symptom. He will
on receipt of such a letter, w'rite you, promptly
and courteously, a candid and straightforward
oponion of your case. If you do not think you
understand the case, send for his famous medical
work, the price of which is but sixpence ; enclosed
in the volume will be found a list of carefully-pre-
pared questions, which will, in all probability,
assist you materially in describing your ailment.
Dr. Richards uses nothing but the purest remedies,
and never prescribes mercury under any circum-
stances. The moment letters are carefully per-
used and answered they are destroyed by fire,
and patients may rest assured that their cases
will remain a secret between the doctor and
themselves. Dr. Richards has successfully treated
nearly 25,000 cases since coming to Australia, and
has permission from at least 10,000 persons to
show their written evidence of his success. All
communications should be addressed
Dr. RICHARDS,
V Spring Street
(Off Pitt Street North)
S Y D FT E Y.
Be sure to mention this paper when writing
CONSULTATION TREE.
A SOLEMN MOMENT.
"Ignored! Not so much as a passing glance by way of recognition. I see how it is-the
ice cream season is over and she has no further use for me. (Uncovering.) Hear
me, ye gods! From this time forth no further use have I for woman’s smiles and
protestations. I shall ignore the entire sex. and although they may plead, the heart
of Kotzebue Duffy will remain adamant!”— AMER.


Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
“The leading Packet Tea in Now South Wales
is the Famous Billy Tea. Its consumption is
at least double that of any other brand in the
market.”
PACKED ONLY BY
James Inglis Co.,
4 & G Dean’s Place, SYDNEY.
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
Shipping.
JJUDDART, PARKER and CO.’s LINE.
STEAM TO MELBOURNE AND
TASMANIA.
FROM HUDDART, PARKER’S WHARF :
FOR MELBOURNE WHARF DIRECT—
Burrumbeet | 4000 tons ) Tuesday, Feb. 4, at 6 p.m,
Elingamite \ 4000 tons | Tuesday, Feb. 11 at6p.m.
FOR LAUNCESTON, VIA MELBOURNE—
transhipping to S.S. NEWCASTLE.
Burrumbeet 4000 tons 1 Tuesday, Feb. 4, at6p.m.
Elingamite 4000 tons | Tuesday, Feb. 11 at6p.m.
These magnificent Steamships have already established
a reputation for their accommodation, and their large size
insures passengers a maximum of comfort. The SALOON
CABINS are light and airy and very roomy. FORE-
CABIN is on main deck, lofty and well ventilated. Com-
plete sanitation and lavatories. ELECTRIC LIGHTING
throughout the ships. Inspection invited on days of
sailing.
RETURN TICKETS AVAILABLE FOR SIX MONTHS.
For rates of Freight and Passage-money apply
HUDDART, PARKER & CO., Limited.
Offices and Wharf—Foot of Margaret-street.
rp ASMANIAN EXCURSIONS.
The splendid
S.S. ELINGAMITE, 4000 Tons,
will sail as under for HOBART DIRECT.
ELINGAMITE, Tuesday, 4th February, at 4 p.m.
GREAT REDUCTION IN FARES.
SALOON £lO 0
RETURN 1 10 0
STEERAGE .. .. .. .. 0 10 0
RETURN TICKETS AVAILABLE FOR SIX MONTHS.
Also GREAT REDUCTION iN FREIGHT.
HUDDART, PARKER & CO, Limited.
Office and Wharf—Foot of Margaret Street.
LICHTNER & CO.,
SYDNEY:
318 GEORGE STREET
BRISBANE
9 ELIZABETH STEEET
K
\s/
<
A
m
PHOTOGRAPHIC
-STOCK- -
IMPORTERS.
£T SEND FOR OUR NEW ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE
—OF—
CAMERAS, LENSES, CHEMICALS, MAGIC LANTERNS,
And all Articles appertaining to PHOTOGRAPHY.
):(
CHEA.F A.MA.rrRXJR. OUTFITS.
Shipping.
J-JIREOT SERVICE TO ENGLAND,
PENINSULAR AND ORIENTAL STEAM
NAVIGATION COMPANY.
The Company’s Royal Mail Steamships (under
contract with the Imperial, New South Wales,
Victorian, and South Australian Governments)
will be dispatched from their Wharf, Circular
Quay, as under, for LONDON, calling at Mel-
bourne, Adelaide, Albany, Colombo, Aden, Brin-
disi, Malta, Gibraltar, and Plymouth.
And henceforth every alternate week.
RESERVED CABINS ON MODERATE
TERMS.
SALOON PASSENGERS MAY BREAK
THEIR JOURNEY.
The arrangements for SECOND SALOON
PASSENGERS having been thoroughly re-
organised, the accommodation now offered is un-
surpassed.
Passage-money can be paid here for passages
from England. Liberal concessions made to
families.
Passengers, cargo, and parcels are booked through
to India, China, and Japan. Cargo and parcels
will not be received after 3 p.m. on the day pre-
vious to sailing.
For all information apply at the Company’s
Offices, 247 George-street.
A. MACLEAN, Acting Agent.
lOMPAGNIE DES MESSAGERIES MARI-
TIMES
SYDNEY to LONDON.
OVERLAND FROM MARSEILLES via PARIS.
Steamers under postal contract with the Government of
France, calling- at MELBOURNE ADELAIDE, KING
GEORGE’S SOUND, MAKE, SUEZ, and PORT SAID.
Passengers booked to KURRACHEE, BOMBAY,
MAURITIUS, and EAST COAST of AFRICA.
The service is carried on by powerful steamers of 4000
tons and 3000 effective h.p., built expressly for the Aus-
tralian and New Caledonian line, which will be despatched
as follows:
And thenceforward on the 25th of each month.
Rates of passage-money to Marseilles from £2O to £65,
including table wines and Suez Canal dues on passengers.
RETURN TICKETS issued at the following rates: —
English interpreters meet through passengers for
London on arrival of steamers at Marseilles, and accom-
pany them to Paris and Calais.
N.B.—Passengers’luggage conveyed free of cost from
Marseilles to London.
For freight, passage, and further particulars apply at
the Company’s Office, 15 Macquarie-place.
H. DE POSSEL,
Acting Principal Agent.
LLOYD.
IMPERIAL GERMAN MAIL.
Passengers are carried according to the requirements of
the English Passenger Acts of 1885 and 1863.
MONTHLY LINE OF DIRECT STEAMERS
from
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, and ADELAIDE,
to SOUTHAMPTON, ANTWERP, and BREMEN, via
COLOMBO, Aden, Suez, and Genoa,
taking passengers for London,
connecting from PORT SAID by DIRECT MAIL and
PASSENGER LINE to BRINDISI,
will be despatched as follows (if practicable);—
And thereafter every four weeks.
PASSAGE MONEY from SYDNEY,
£l4 to £57 10s.
RETURN TICKETS, available for NINE and TWELVE
MONTHS, at REDUCED RATES.
Passengers and Cargo are booked through to New York,
via Southampton,
Special facilities are afforded for bringing out relatives
and friends from the United Kirfgdom and Europe by pre-
payment of the passage money in Australia.
For FREIGHT, PASSAGE, and all further particulars,
apply to
FREDK. BETZ & CO., Agents,
5 O’Connell-street.
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OP NEW
ZEALAND, Limited.
SAN FRANCISCO ROYAL MAIL SERVICE,
OVERLAND ROUTE TO ENGLAND VIA SAN
FRANCISCO AND NEW YORK,
Calling at
AUCKLAND and HONOLULU,
Avoiding alike the heat of the Red Sea and the cold
of Cape Horn,
Under Contract with the Postmasters-Qcneral of New
South Wales and New Zealand, the steamers of this line
are appointed to leave Sydney and Auckland for Honolulu
and San Francisco every four weeks, sailing as under:—
Each steamer carries a duly qualified surgeon.
These steamers are fitted with Electric Light and with a>
Refrigerating Chamber for ship provisions, insuring a
plentiful supply of ice throughout the voyage.
Passengers are booked to San Francisco or through fid
European destinations and have at San Francisco choice ofl
the unrivalled Atlantic Steamship Lines of the Cunardi,,
Inman, White Star, and other companies.
All first-class passengers are allowed 3501 b. of baggagjf
to San Francisco and 2501 b. “Overland ” free of charge,
THROUGH PARE TO LIVERPOOL.
FIRST-CLASS £63 to £66.
Time-cards, railway maps, and gu'de books, showing all
routes to any point in the United States, may be had on
application
For rates of passage and freight and all other informa-
tion apply at the Company’s Offices, 15 Bridge-street.
FREDK. W. JACKSON, Manager.
The Son of Admiral Byng:
A legend of Bo[?]ny [?]ay.
’Tia years agone since, near that beauteous Bay,
Which Crime and Tyranny, alas, the day !
Have stippled deep and dark with Wrong and
Shame,
And robbed of all the fragance of its name,
Hwelt old Myles Silver. Strange and quaint
was he,
Full of odd ways and harmless mystery,
Withal a patient and painstaking man,
Silent and mild-eyed, tall and spare and wan,
From whence he came, or how, none rightly knew;
For, questioned, with a smile he could subdue
Keen curiosity : so sadly bright
Was the dim flicker of the inward light
Which played about his lips, none cared to press
Their questions on his meek but sure distress.
Two stalwart sons (brave lads, the neighbours said)
Helped him to earn his humble daily bread ;
Helped him with net and noose, harpoon and line,
To snatch a living from the treacherous brine;
Nay, oft without his aidance put to sea,
Thereon to ply their perilous industry.
One eve (the youths had absent been all day)
Old Silver on the beach was seen to stray
By neighbour Jones ; for one so calm and staid,
His manner great anxiety betrayed.
Upon a patch of cloud, away to south,
His grey eyes straining, and with open mouth,
His soul concentred seemed. Anon, his gaze
He turned most peeringly, and in amaze,
Upon the wine-hued sea ; nought there appears
To still the tumult of his doubts and fears.
In sooth, and soon, the cloud-spot blacker grew,
And sullen shadow on the waters threw ;
And sudden gloom upon the gold-flecked bush,
Through which low moans in swooning echoes
rush,
Eftsoons the waves began to swell and dip ;
To fringe with foam the ghastly shore’s cold lip;
To seethe and boil, or rush with sudden shock
Against, and smite, the gaunt fire-hardened rock ;
To claw the grating sand and shingly shore,
Which by resisting waked its fury more.
The cloud, with fringe of lurid orange bound,
Spread loose above, and on the waters frowned :
Then came the wind in wild career along,
Like courser restless, but like war-horse strong ;
And rent the gloom which brooded o’er the deep.
From out the fissure the red lightnings leap
In blinding vividness ; an instant glare
On sea and land, like demons of the air,
Then pass away, gulfed by the spissy gloom—
To reappear, and that weird scene relume ;
Or signal to the dark-browed wraiths of rain
To pour a torrent on the land and main.
Myles Silver, in an ecstacy of woe,
Too deep for even scalding tears to flow,
Along the beach impetuously ran,
His eyes a-flame— his features deadly wan—
His white hair streaming on the fitful wind.
“ Oh, save my sons,” he cried, “great God, be
kind !
Put down this sea—call in the maddening wind—
O Father, look upon a father’s grief ;
In mercy hear —in pity grant relief !”
All in vain his loud appeal and piteous cries—
In vain the tearless anguish of his eyes.
The winds rave on ; but ’mid their wild uproar,
He seemed to hear—quite near the darkened
shore —
A sudden shriek, an agonising cry,
Such dire acclaim as men make ere they die,
Amid the waves. The anguished father said :
“ I hear, I hear, my sons ! and bring you aid ;
Ye are not lost; your father hears you call;
He’ll save you soon, or in the effort fall.”
This said, he gained an opening in the cliff,
From which he launched a frail but short-bowed
skiff,
Arid, springing in, his arms love-nerved sweep
The seething surges of the ravening deep.
He gains the spot whence came the drowning cry,
But nought, save foam-crowned meets
his eye.
Behind, a second shriek he hears; again
He rows towards the sound, but rows in vain,
For, still behind him, cries pierce through tire
gale.
He turns, returns, but e’er behind him swell
Those wails of woe, bewildering and fell!
Unnerved and maddened, he flings down his oars,
And, louder than the winds’ and billows’ roars,
He calls his sons. Save echoes of despair,
No sound cuts through the turbid, darkened air.
Some power unseen his skiff drives swiftly on,
Through gulfs of foam Boomboora’s rocks upon !
There —boat and boatman, whirled within that
hell,
Are shrouded quickly by the foamy swell.
Of old Myles Silver and his stalwart sons
(For thus the sequel to the legend runs)
No more was heard, till in their hut one day
A learned clerk, who sojourned on the way,
Did note a massive, oak-bound, bronze-clasped
book,
Half hidden by some rubbish in a nook ;
Which tome ho oped : it proved a Bible old,
On whose fly-leaves, in writing quaint and bold,
Were writ some records of a bloody deed,
Done in the name of Justice—travestied.
How coward Majesty, once, ill-advised,
Had a right trusty servant sacrificed ;
It told of dark intrigue and subtle wile,
Of lawmen’s quibble and of statesmen’s guile ;
It called the agents of this deed abhorred,
“ A MURDERER KING AND HIS ASSASSIN LORD !”
And to the tale did this'attestment run—
“ Witness —Myles Argent Byng, the Victim’s son.’
J. SHERIDAN MOORE.
Everybody should use Pemell’s latest best Snow-white
Patent Roller Flour. It is the greatest success of the
age.
In the Press and shortly to be published,
the first of The Bulletin series, “ A Golden
Shanty—Australian stories and sketches in prose
and verse by Bulletin writers. ” Being a selection
from the brightest of the original literary matter
which has made The Bulletin world-famous.
Price one shilling; if posted 5d. extra.
At Mark Young s Pier Hotel, Franks ton, near
Melbourne, superior accommodation for visitors.
Fresh and salt-water baths in house, close to sea
baths. Horses and buggies for hire.
Mr. Commissioner Pannikin.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
Years ago it was decided by the Ministry
of the day to demilitarise the New Zealand Armed
Constabulary; in other words, to knock the
military stuffing out of that body and replace it
with the purely police element, and Mr. Com-
missioner St. John Brannigan was sent up from
Dunedin to the North Island for the purpose.
Mr. Brannigan, once a sub-inspector of police
in Victoria, had since been the head of the
Otago police ; he had promoted himself from plain
John Brannigan to St. John Brannigan, and was a
beggar to work, being a perfect martinet as to
petty details. Needless to say Brannigan’s mis-
sion was not popular among the A.C., nine-tenths
of whom prided themselves on being defence-force
men, rangers, military settlers, bushmen, anything
rather than police, and to none of the old A.C.
men did the expected change come less pleasantly
than to the white officers and non-coms, attached
to the native contingents at that time forming
part and parcel of the Armed Constabulary.
At one outpost on the West Coast
stationed a native contingent detachment under
the command of a half-caste officer, tJaptain
Blake, with one Sergeant Carr as a sort of regi-
mental sergeant-major. There were also a Maori
captain, lieutenant, ensign, and sergeant, all on
the strength and all drawing pay. The times
were peaceful and there was absolutely nothing to
do and they did it. Everyone in those days,
whites and Maoris, had Maori mistresses, and the
outpost was a collection of whares or native huts.
The captain’s quarters did duty for orderly-room
and the sergeant’s was the store, both whares were
kept tidy by brown handmaidens and the adja-
cent clothes-lines were gay and bright with green,
yellow, blue, pink, and red skirts and petticoats
belonging to the dusky beauties. Rumours of
Brannigan’s appointment had reached this Ngati-
porou outpost, but it was never anticipated that
the new Commissioner would personally inspect
the detachment. However, one fine day a “ perky ”-
looking swell rode up to the camp, attended by a
couple of orderlies, one of whom led a loaded
packhorse. “By , it’s Brannigan!” said Blake,
as he dived into his hut and hastily donned some
semblance of uniform. In the meantime Carr had
rushed into his camp and had tumbled out of a
shawl and into a pair of trousers in double-quick
time.
* * *
“I’ll parade the detachment as soon as
possible, Mr. Blake,” said the Commissioner, who
never gave his officers their military titles, not
having any himself. The parade was ordered and
the Maoris fell in for inspection. The roll was
called, the ranks were opened, and the Commis-
sioner proceeded to make his inspection. He
marched down the ranks, followed by Captain
Blake in full fig and Sergeant Carr also in uniform,
note-book in hand. Then came Captain Kai-
moana, simply yet neatly attired in an Inverness
cape and a rimless billycock hat. This warrior was
armed with a greenstone mere ; he hung out
his tongue and took a yard and a half at every stride.
Next in order came Lieutenant Aperama, who
wore a flax-mat round his loins and had a
whalebone mere in one hand and a spear
(taia) in the other. The lieutenant had
placed a feather over one ear ; the ensign, Wi
Ropiana, carried a tomahawk mounted on a long
handle as his badge of office; his uniform con-
sisted of a Crimean shirt and a shawl. Brannigan
fell foul of almost the first man he came across :
the guard-brass of the man’s rifle wanted burnish-
ing, and the Commissioner endeavoured to ex-
plain it to the Maori. Now, the Maoris never
cleaned their guard-brasses; they did not go in
for burnishing as long as their weapons shot well.
That was all their officers required, so when Mr.
Commissioner Brannigan pointed this out to the
man the latter put out his tongue and said, “ Yah,
Pannikin, no good Pannikin !” Then there
was a chorus up and down the ranks of “No
good, Pannikin —no blank good, Pannikin ! ”
The native officers flourished their weapons and
danced and yelled “Nogood, Pannikin !” and it
was as much as Captain Blake could do to stop
the din. The parade soon came to an end, and
the Commissioner then said he would explain the
new system of book-keeping, as introduced by
himself, to the orderly-room sergeant. Accord-
ingly Sergeant Carr ushered the Commissioner
into one of the whares, and one of the orderlies
staggered in beneath a huge load of books. “Now
this book,” said the Commissioner, pointing to a
huge folio about four feet square, “ is the Occur-
rence Book, and in it you will enter what each
man does each day. Let us take the roll. First
name—Ahipene. Well, you enter Ahipene’s name
in this column, and in the next column you enter
what he did on Monday. What did he do on
Monday?” “Nothing.” “Tuesday?” “Nothing.”
“Wednesday?” “Nothing.” “Dear, dear me, next
man, Hirini —what did he do on Monday ? ”
“ Nothing.'* “On Tuesday?” “Nothing.” “On
Wednesday?” “Nothing.” “And the next
man ?” “ Nothing.” “ Dear, dear me,” said the
Commissioner, “I’m afraid it’s no use leaving an
Occurrence Book here. ” And he soon left and one
result of his inspection was that the native con-
tingents were struck off the strength of the Armed
Constabulary. Sergeant Carr is now something
in the civil Service of New Zealand and can tell
this yarn a great deal better than I can.
BAKELOX.
Conductor Carl Schmitt, the genius who
waves the furious baton over musical Auckland
(N.Z.), has just composed a “National Anthem”
for the most puissant, likewise highly-coloured,
King of Tonga, and, according to latest accounts,
the loyal Tongans have grappled with the com-
position, and are playing it for all it is woi’th.
The prayer of the Anthem is exceedingly compre-
hensive. It asks the Lord to save the king and
the princes, to keep a fatherly eye on Premier
Shirley Baker, to make the cocoa-nuts grow, and
to give the natives a square deal every time they
have any land-transactions with the missionaries.
Building Sites, City of Perth, W.A. Plans
Intercolonial Investment Co., Limited, 90 Bathurs
street, Sydney.
When next you bake try Pemell’s Snow-white Patent
Roller Flour, and your bread will be as white as snow.
Nota Bene! In addition to their High Class old
Wines, Messrs. Hookings & Co., of 410 George-street, have
accepted the agency of the Australian Wine Company,
Limited, for their superior cheap wines.
Photography. —Charlemont and Co. (vice-regal
photographers), in the Royal Arcade, beg to an-
nounce that they have now-reduced the price of
their Cabinet Photographs to One Guinea per doz.
any style —bust, vignette or three-quarter figure.
Messrs. Charlemont feel assured that this reduc-
tion in price will meet the many who refrained
from sitting in their studio, solely on account of
the price hitherto being higher than they might
care to pay. Grosvenor Galleries, Royal Arcade.
Bona-Fide announcement. Highest cash price
given for all kinds of gent’s left off clothing.
Dress-suits for sale or hire. Letters promptly
attended to by QUITTENTON BROS., Ill
Russell street, MELBOURNE, [New number ,
163.)


er READ THIS ! Two Pounds’ (£2) worth of these preparations sent free to any part of the colony.
Armstrong’s Citron Saline, for cooling and purifying the
blood. An aperient effervescing salt. 2s; 18s don.
Armstrong’s Blood Purifier or Anti-Scorbutic— a valuable
remedy where the blood has become vitiated through
residence in hot climates, with usual consequences of
bad water, deficient vegetable diet. 2s; 18s doz.
Armstrong’s Compound Sarsaparilla with Dandelion, lodide
of Potash, &c., for all impurities of the blood. 2s; 20s doz.
Armstrong’s Eye Lotion for Blight and other inflammatory
affections of the eyes. The proprietor has received
numerous testimonials for cures effected by this lotion
when all other means had failed. Is; 8s doz.
Armstrong's Sugar-coated Anti-bilious Pills. An infallible
remedy in cases of indigestion and other complaints
arising from an inactive liver. Is; 8s doz.
Armstrong’s Diarrhoea Mixtures gives instant relief in this
troublesome complaint. 2s; 18s doz.
Armstrong’s Gout and Rheumatic Mixture. For gout,
rheumatism, sciatica, &0., &c. 3s fid; 36s doz.
Armstrong’s Cough Elixir. An immediate cure for colds,
coughs, influenza, &o. 2s; 18s doz.
Armstrong’s Podophyllin Pills, for liver complaints, im-
purities of the blood, &c. Is; 8s doz.
Armstrong’s Phosphorous Pills, for Nervous and General
Debility, &c. Is; 8s doz.
Armstrong’s Anodyne Liniment (or Pain Paint) for bruises,
sprains, rheumatic pains, &c. 2s; 18s doz.
Armstrong’s Cough Balsam, for chronic pulmonary affec-
tions and lung diseases. 2s; 18s doz.
Armstrong’s Golden Eye Ointment, for blight and all
diseases of the eyes. Is (id; 13s doz.
Armstrong’s celebrated Ointment for Piles. 2s;
18s doz.
Armstrong’s Iron and Quinine Tonic, for loss of appetite,
Nervousness, General Debility, Neuralgia, &c. 2s.
Armstrong’s 156 Mixture for discharges. 3s (id.
Armstrong’s Pepsine Bismuth and Nux Vomica, for
chronic indigestion. 3s Od &5s (id ; 30s & 58s doz.
Armstrong's Quinine Wine. A most reliable brain and
nerve tonic. 2s Od; 20s doz.
Armstrong’s Podophyllin Seidlltz Powders. A mild and
pleasant aperient. Is Od; 15s doz.
Armstrong’s “ Arabian Ointment.” For healing all sores,
old wounds, burns, etc. (in pots). Is; 8s doz.
Armstrong’s Corn Paint and Solvent, for painlessly
removing corns, bunions, warts, &c. Is; Bs.doz.
Armstrong’s Toothache Drops and Carbolic Nervine, for
immediate cure of toothache. Is; 8s doz.
Armstrong’s Resin, Carbolic, Zinc, Blue, White,and Red
Percipitate Ointments (in boxes). 6d ;5s doz.
Armstrong’s Dandruff Pomade, for eradicating scurf, dan-
druff, &c., from the hair. Is ;8s doz.
Armstrong’s Arabian Hair Renewer, for restoring grey
hair to its natural colour. Is (id ; 12s doz.
Armstrong’s Arabian Insect Powder. 9d ; 6s doz.
Armstrong's Indelible Ink, for writing on linen, silk, and
muslin. Is; 8s per doss.
Armstrong's Lime Juice and Glycerine. A valuable
preparation for the’ hair. Is &2s; Ss & 18s doz.
Armstrong’s Transparent Cement (Oohesuline) for china,
glass, wood, leatlfer, &o. 6d &Is ; 5s &8s doz.
Armstrong’s Carbolic Tooth Powder antiseptic. Is; 8s doz.
Armstrong’s Disinfectant, Carbolised Powder (in tins),
for drains, etc. 9d &Is (id ; (is (id & 12s doz.
Armstrong’s Sore Back Oiutm an t for horses. 2s; & ISs doz.
Armstrong’s Carbolic Dressing, for cuts and wounds
among stock. Is &Is (id 8s & 15s doz.
Armstrong’s Blistering Ointment - the best remedy for
splints, <surhs, etc. Is (Id ; 13s doz.
Armstrong’s Worm and Condition Powders, for horses
(in tins). 6d &Is ; 5s &8s doz.
Armstrong’s Gold Paint, Copper, Silver and Green Bronzes,
for decorating your home ornaments, statuary, &c. —
all ready mixed. 6d ;8s doz.
INVENTED, MANUFACTURED and SOLD ONLY by H. C. ARMSTRONG, George Street NORTH (Near Circular Quay), SYDNEY
Trusses, Belts, Supports, Elastic Stockings, Knee Caps, etc., at English Wholesale Cost. The Larged Stork in Sydney.
FOR DRUGS, CHEMICALS, PATENT MEDICINES and DRUGGISTS’ SUNDRIES, SEND FOR SPECIAL PRICE LIST (POSTED FREE).
Kenneth Bellairs says that in some Irish
districts the poor rate is Bs. 6d. in the pound. He
shows that the Scottish peasantry, everywhere,
are infinitely better fed than the poor in the Irish
wilds, where even the tourist runs risk of starva
tion.
Ilorsford's Arid Phosphate
IS A BRAIN AND NERVE FOOD.
At a meeting of the Glasgow Presbytery
of the Established Church of Scotland, the sacred
recitals given in the churches on Sunday evenings
were much lamented, and the Reverend Thomson
said that —
Seeing it was an attempt to get the people to come to
church, he could give them a recipe that would cram them
to the doors. They were told in a certain psalm to praise
Got! with the organ and the dance They had only to
announce a first-class ballet on the platform of the church,
that the prettiest girls in the congregation would be there
showing themselves off in tights or whatever they liked.
At this there arose a chorus of “Oh, oh’s ! ” and
the Moderator gravely interposed “ This is really
too much, Mr. Thomson.”
“If you arc a man of business, weakened by
the strain of your duties, avoid stimulants and
take Dr. Soule’s American Hop Bitters.”
Use Batho s Baking Powder.
BEAD IT ALL.
IT MAY SAVE YOUFTLIFE.
Dr. Soule’s American Hop Bitters
ARE
THE PUREST AND BEST
Medicine ever Made. They are compounded from
Hops, Buchu, Mandrake and Dandelion.
“The ( Iciest, Best, most Renowned,
‘ and Valuable Medicines in the
* World, and in addition contain all
* the best and most effective cura-
* tive properties of all other bitters,
4 being the greatest Liver Regu-
* later, BLOOD PURIFIER and
‘ life and health restoring agent on
‘ earth.”
They Dive Mew Life and Vigour to the Aged
and Infirm.
“To Clergymen, Lawyers, Literary
‘ Men, Labourers, Ladies, and all
‘ those whose sederltary employ-
-4 ments cause irregularities of the
4 Blood, Stomach, Bowels, or
‘ Kidneys, or who require an
4 Appetizer, Tonic, and mild Stimu-
-4 lant, these Bitters are invaluable,
4 being highly curative, tonic, and
4 stimulating without intoxicating. ”
4 ‘No matter what your feelings or
4 symptoms are, or what the disease
4 or ailment is, use Hop Bitters.
4 Don’t wait until you are sick, but
4 if you only feel bad or miserable,
4 use the Bitters at once. It may
4 save your life. Hundreds have
4 been saved by so doing, at a
4 trifling cost. ”
Ask your Druggist or Physician.
“Do not suffer yourself or let your
4 friends suffer, but use and urge
4 them to use Dr. Soule’s American
* Hop Bitters.”
“ Remember, Dr. Soule’s American
4 Hop Bitters is no vile, drugged
4 drunken nostrum, but the purest
‘ and best Medicine ever made, and
4 no person or family should be with-
-4 out it. ”
HOP BITTERS MANUFACTURING CO.,
Melbourne, Australia, Rochester, N.Y., U.S.
A., Toronto, London, Antwery, Paris.
g
“ They fit perfectly, and are
far superior to all the other
Corsets 1 have tried.”
(Signed) Marie Hose.
THE
&
PATENT
Diagonal Seam Corset
Will not Split in the Seams
nor Tear in the Fabric.
Exquisite Model, Perfect
Comfort, Guaranteed Wear.
Beware of worthless imita-
tions. Every genuine Y& N
Corset stamped “Y&N Patent
Diagonal Seam Corset, No. 116,” in oval.
THREE GOLD MEDALS!
Sold by all Drapers and Ladies’ Outfitters.
ows
EMBROCATION
tw/l
* .»
Ns
m
:vv\
i /
fg
fg
Government Advertisements.
Department of Public Works.
Sydney, January 2S, IShO.
mENDERS FOR PUBLIC WORKS A XI)
i SUPPLIES.
For Conditions, see Government Gazette.
Nature of Works and Supplies.
Repairs, &c., Lighthouse, New-
castle
Erection of Shed at back of Ad-
miralty Wharf, Woolloomooloo
Bay
Repairs Lockup, Moruya
Repairs, &c., Post and Telegraph
Office, Grenfell |
Fencing, &c., Courthouse and!
Police Buildings, Narrabri
Repairs Custom House, Newcastle
(fresh tenders) . Wednesday,
Erection of Courthouse, Copeland Feb. !%
Construction of Wharf at Maclean at 11 o’clock.
Construction of Wharf at entrance,;
to Dredge Dock, Kempsy >
Bridge, Greenbah Creek-road,
Moree to Meroe (fresh tenders)
Erection of Post and Telegraph
Office, Mittagong
Culvert at Bathurst, opposite New
Gaol
Erection of Wall Railing, &c.,
Centennial Park (fresh tenders)
Levelling Ground near Govern-
ment Wharves, Pyrunout [
Bridge, Eucurnbene River, road
Coomato Kiandra (fresh tenders)
Manufacture and Supply of Twelve
Water-balance Road Rollers
Supply of Turret Clock, Post and
Telegraph Office, Kempsey
Ditto ditto, ditto ditto ditto, Ten-
terlield »
Ditto ditto, ditto ditto ditto, Bal-
lina
o iu whigll
Tenders
loan be received
at this office.
BRUCE SMITH.
f
LARMER’S
CELEBRATED
TONIC
CURES
Nervous Debility,
Sick Headache
Bilious Complaints
Fever and Ague,
Sleeplessness,
Liver and Blood-
THE TONIC OF THE AGE!
This being one of the best Restoratives yet
offered to the Public in the form of_a Tonic.
Warranted to Build up tlio Constitution,
at the same time acts as a Strengthening
Restorative in all cases.
BOTTLES at 2s. 6il. and ss.
Post, Is Extra.
Prepared only by—
CAINS & CO., Chemists,
78 KING ST-, SYDNEY
For Sale l>y all C hemists.
M. W. & Co.
THE SYDNEY CATERING, COMPANY,
(Late Gunsler’s Cafe)
175 Pitt Street, Sydney,
WtSH their former Patrons and tlio Public Generally to know that their Saloons have been Entirely Reorganised, and shall be glad if they will give
heir new tushie a trial. JAMES 0- MARQUAND, Manager
The Story of "The Dead Heart."
In the prologue of the play (written by Watt-
Phillips and produced by Irving), those of the per-
sonages who are already in existence in 1771 are
seen young. The young Parisian sculptor, Robert
Landry, living the lively life of Paris, loves with
all his heart the beautiful Catherine Duval.
Around them flutter a happy band of Parisian
friends, abounding in happiness and good humour,
but prone to be jealous of Versailles, and already
conscious of aspirations and possessed of phrases
in which are enclosed as germs the principle of the
great changes which are soon to come.
The persons of the drama are first seen in a
pleasure-garden. It is the cafe of La Belle
Jardiniere, where all is mirth and pleasant festi-
vity, within sight of the towers of Notre Dame.
But first we make the acquaintance of the bad
angel of this Paris epic—one Latour, a gay abbe,
self-indulgent, eager to promote the immoral
licence of his friends; one who wields by Court
favour the fearful power of the lettre de cachet.
His friend, the Count de St. Valery, loves Catherine
Duval, and. having first paved the way with pre-
sents, attempts to carry her off by entering her
chamber. Robert Landry surprises him in the
act, and is himself surprised almost out of his
faith in Catherine, the situation not being free
from suspicion. Then enter the officers of the
law. Landry, tremulous with his doubts of
Catherine and frenzied by his causeless arrest, is
borne off to the Bastille.
Eighteen years elapse—spent by Robert Landry
in the misery and darkness of his squalid cell.
Catherine and her noble lover have married, and
have a son, a bright young lad in his first dawn of
manhood. Ere 1789 the Count dies. Catherine
Duval, a sweet, grey-haired mother, still beautiful,
is watching with much anguish the roysteiing
youth of her darling son, who, like his father, is
cursed with the malign friendship of the bad Abbe
Latour. This is the situation when the First Act
of the actual play begin*.
It commences with the taking of the Bastille.
The great prison frowns its darkest, but its last
day has come. Paris has risen. The people are
fighting bravely, furiously, cheerfully at the barri-
cades. Forward they strive in relays as they are
beaten back by superior force, some being led
down wounded from the front. The stage surges
with revolt. The great mob rushes hither and
thither, but with method. The fortune of theday
may waver, but auguries of victory may be found
in the steady, light-hearted determination of the
self-drilled populace. At last with tremendous
effect a cannon is dragged on to the scene on the
people’s side, and pointed at the Bastille gates.
The drawbridges descend, the insurgents rush
across the moat for entrance at two forbidding
portals. The struggle on the prison threshold
with the soldiers is fierce and brief With ring-
ing shouts the people enter the Bastille to scour
its corridors and dungeons for the victims of royal
and aristocratic oppression
When prisoner after prisoner’Tias been brought
out, tottering, ragged, and blear-eyed, a figure,
nobler, more striking, but bearing, if possible,
worse signs of suffering than any, is supported
across the bridge and down to the centre of the
stage. Some of Landry’s old friends recognise
him in this forlorn, long-bearded, peak-faced man
gazing, or trying to gaze (for the light nearly
blinds him), vacantly into space. The vitality of
the worn, wan man is evident enough ; but his
visage is marred, and his soul is in suspense of an
irresistible overmastering torpor. In the meshes of
thoughts gradually shaping into weird remem-
brances as he submits, scarcely conscious, to the
question of his long-forgotten friends —during
the slow, slow filing of the fetters that have
rusted to his limbs undisturbed for years and
years—the prematurely old man faintly moves,
and stretches as it were the tardily re-
covering faculties of his mind. “At long
last ’’ the strange figure does become self-
responsible and self-responsive. It is the name
of Catherine, pronounced by his old friend, the
gruff Legrand, that really and completely awakes
the bright and flashing mind that still inhabits
this extraordinary tenement of wrecked and racked
humanity. Almost with screams of freedom he
rises and half staggers, is half carried away, from
the first scene of his liberation, into the thicken-
ing, crowding, embarrassing activities of his newly-
arisen life from the dead.
Hln an interview between the polished Abbe and
the sweet Countess the audience learn the extent
to which young St. Valery has been brought by
the Abbe. Robert Landry is also there, much
changed since he came out of the Bastille. The
Countess hovers anxious in the rear, and has her
first interview with Landry since his liberation.
He declares his heart to lie dead. Only the
memory of two names live in it and live
for vengeance Latour and St. Valery.
On the young Count he means to wreak the
vengeance which he swore against his father,
Landry, his dead heart scarcely stirred within
him, but quite inaccessible to pity, looks forward
to the ruin of the young Count by Latour, who is
leading him through a course of folly, and the
guillotining of them both as soon as they can be
got within the clutches of the Revolution.
Five years more elapse. Paris is changed some-
what. The garb of her citizens is changed more.
'il*c wild beheading fury of 1794 is in full action.
The mob is frivolous and bloodthirsty. The Abbe-
Latour and his young victim are both prisoners,
and doomed. The Parisian canaille are assembled
to jeer the condemned. Mother and son have a
touching interview. Next a scene of daring, revel
and pasquinading—so to speak—on the eve of
death amongst the Royalist prisoners, separately
confined in a row of cells visible to the audience.
And then approaches the beginning of the end of
Landry’s revenge.
Robert Landry is now in a position of authority.
He occupies a large room in the Conciergerie. At
the moment it is radiantly moonlit. He is writing
at a table. He has plans which presently develop
themselves. He sends for Lalour, who enters
with lofty port, and they begin a dialogue in
which the long-injured Landry forces upon his
enemy the necessity of fighting him. But not
before the infinitely base aristocrat has made an
attempt to stab the Revolutionary chief in the
back. If he had succeeded he could have escaped,
for Landry has prepared and shown him his pass-
port, tobeaccepted with thesingleoonditionof first
meeting him in combat. They fight with sabres. It
is a real and savage encounter. Each thrusts and
parries well, and the fortune of the fray seems
doubtful. But a skilful lunge of Landry ends it,
and Latour falls—confessing as he dies that he
might impart much if there were opportunity.
The poor mother, about, at seven that morning,
to be bereaved of her son by the most fearful
death, has watched out in the cold all night. As
the third and last act of the drama opens, she is
disclosed sitting on the steps of the gruesome
guillotine. Landry, who does not see her at first,
soliloquises, haunted by the feeling that the
woman he saw watching all night may have been
Catherine. His dead heart is by no means dead.
Catherine speaks to him. And now Landry learns
that the villany of his confinement was entirely
Latour’s, and not attributable to the late Count,
who actually procured an order of release, and
was informed by Latour that Landry was dead.
One crowning appeal to the old love completes
the conquest of Landry—the revival of his dead,
heart.
In a swift, silent moment, he resolves to save
the boy, St. Valery. He assures the Countess of
his release as the crowd enters, admitted to sur-
round the scaffold and witness the executions of
the morning. All is now nearly over. Landry is
seen within. He questions old Legrand as to the
order of the prisoners’ deaths. Their numbers are
heard called out, and they go with various expres-
sions and often in silence to their fate. A tumbril
with its living load grinds and jolts heavily over
the stones. Landry gives orders which delay the
the third tumbril. He sends to Robespierre for
a passport for the young Count. Does the man
who keeps the list know the prisoners by sight ?
No. Clearly Landry has resolved to substitute
himself for the condemned young man. His
“ spirit leaps within him, as lightened of an un-
known burden, and mounts upwards where sorrow
is unknown.”
The Countess, his love of old, comes in, and he
tells her that his heart is still living. He “has
been in darkness and has found the light once
more.” He implores pardon from his “first love
and his last.”
Then the numbers are called—the muster-roll of
death. Thirty is the fatal number, as the mother
too well knows. “Twenty-six,”—“twenty-seven ”
—“ twenty-eight Farewell! They will meet
again. , “On that great hope he builds his
strength.” He goes. “Twenty-nine.” “Thirty.”
“Here —and ready,” is heard without. It is
Landry’s clear and meaning voice.
There is a high window at the back of the room.
Mother and son gaze without—for young St.
Valery has come rushing in, set free, and with
Robespierre’s passport ; arid there, lofty and
spiritlike in the yet moonlit dawn, stands Landry
beneath the guillotine, self-sacrificed for the son
of his one love.
Mr. Breaklock is temperance lecturing in.
Melbourne. ordinary Breaklock can’t tind
tslacstein : “ I sells you clot coat, my
frent, for sayventeen foliar; you dake him along !”
Customer; “I thought, Isaacstein, that you didn’t
do business on Saturday. Isn’t this your Sun-
day ? ” Mr. Isaacstein (in a low, reverent tone of
voice) ; “ My frent, to sell a coat like dot for
sayventeen tollar vas not peesness, dot vas
sharity. ” —Time.
*From a magnificently-illustrated brochure, “Souvenir
of the Dead Heart,” from the press of Messrs. Cassell
and Co.


Everybody should use PemelTs latest best Snow-white
Patent Roller Flour. It is the greatest success of the age.
Land at Perth, W.A., the best investment
Plans from Intercolonial Investment Co., Ltd,,
96 Bathurst-street, Sydney.
—THE-
Fresh Food & |ge (X
LIMITED,
HARBOUR STREET,
SYDNEY,
Are evidently determined to go ahead. They are
now supplying Customers who take a Quart op
Milk and Over per Day at
THREEPENCE PER QUART!
This appears very wonderful, but it is
quite true.
vV oekly Acc onnts.
WOOL. WOOL.
THE NEW ZEALAND
Loan & Mercantile Agency
COMPANY, LIMITED.
BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Capital, £4,500,000 ... Reserve, £270,000
Wool lBBB~S 9+
Regular Sales of Wool Held Throughout the
Season.
TiHE greatest care bestowed on the Valuation and the
Displaying ami Protkctino all Wools entrusted to
the Company lor sale, whether from large or small clips.
Growers Advised and Consulted with before Sales
of their Clips are made.
Libbkal Cash Advakcbs, where desired, on Wool lieu
of Engine- Clin, and on Wool and other Produce, whether
*or sale in Sydney or shipment to London.
Auction Sales op Sheep Skins, Marsupial
Skins, Hides, Tallow, &0., Held Regularly.
AST* Every Information Supplied on Application.
G. S. CAMPBELL, Manager.
SYDNEY WOOL & GRAIN WAREHOUSES
Bridob and Lottos Streets.
Business Announcements.
—FALLONS—
CELEBBATED
ALBURY WINES.
Recommended by the Medical Faculty.
E»fflN G. GOEETZ,
Stock and. Share Broker,
PIUAITCIAL AGBITT,
BRISBANE.
Member of the Brisbane Stock Exchange.
JjOJJG'S~IMPEEIAL HOTEL
TOOWOOMBA, QUEENSLAND.
Acknowledged the Best Hotel on the Darling
Downs. First-class Accommodation.
Private Suites First Class Sample Rooms.
Conveyance Meets Every Train.
JOHN LONG- - - Late of New Zealand.
sxxxjiXjiiL-v^SL.nxr
(Late of Brisbane Cafti),
Has bought MATTERSON’S HOTEL, opposite
Lassetter s, George-street.
Extensive alterations and improvements just
completed. Recollect DAN’S OLD REPTJTA
TION for the best brands in the market.
DAW. SULIsIVAW
Has a nice cold collation with salad, between one
and two o’clock everyday.
Royal hotel.
Esplanade,
ST. KILDA. VICTORIA,
Facing Beach, close to Pier and Baths. Ten
min tes from Station.
H. MOONEY - - - - Proprietor.
LIVERY LETTING STABLES ATTACHED.
Telephone 682.
First-class Accommodation for Visitors
SMOKE NOTHING BUT
gf
5
PIPE
THE BEST IN THE WORLD.
Wholesale Agents :
JULIUS GOLDSCHMIDT & GO.
231 Clarence Street,
First Prize—MELBOURNE EXHIBITION.
J* LUDOWIGI & SO H"S,
Manufacturers and Importers of
Superior Oak-Tanned Leather Belting 1 ,
And every description of
Leather goods for Machine and Engineering Purposes-
Hydraulic
Leathers.
ms
USHffi
Tangye Pump
Leathers.
All goods bearing the above Trade Mark are warranted to
give satisfaction, or may be returned at our expense.
Office and Factory: 162 Clarence-St., Sydney,
Between King and Market Streets.
TO ADVERTISERS.
We undertake the advertising of large business
houses—filing every paper advertised in, checking
appearances, and watching the interests of our
clients. We can save you money, time and
anxiety. Write for our pamphlet “ How to
Advertise, and Why.” F. T. WIMBLE & CO.,
Newspaper Advertising Bureau, Basement A.J.S.
Bank, 300,371 & 373 George-st., Sydney. Estimates
given for any number of papers by return mail.
g\TDNEY TAKES THE LEAD.
The Sydney Ladies’ and Gentlemen’s
Hairdresssing Palace
AND
TOILETTE KEQUISITFS,
82 XSZXZKTG- STREET.
(Directly opposite the Arcade),
NOW OPEN.
The Public Verdict —A long-felt want filled,
an Establishment that Sydney can be proud of.
No Expense has been spared in fitting up this
Establishment for the convenience and comfort of
its pati’ons.
A large staff of the very best Gentlemen Work-
men are employed in the Ladies’ and Gentlemen’s
Hairdressing Rooms, and all work is guaranteed.
A SELECT STOCK OF
Gentlemen’s Mercery Perfumery.
Ladies’ and Gentlemen’s Toilet Requisites.
Cigars, Cigarettes, Tobacco, &o-,
Sold at the Lowest Cash Prices.
LAUNDRY AGENCY, Ac., Ac.
Sydney and Melbourne Daily and Weekly Papers
kept on File.
All Ladies and Gentlemen are invited to visit
and inspect this establishment, and he convinced
that it is not equalled in the Southern Hemisphere.
HOURS:
From R.W n.,m. to 7 mm. SATURDAYS hum.
Medical
\\
~N\
')
\
Jm
>MV
f
A Skin Without
Blemish
Everywhere a network of sudorific ducts, veins, I
and pores, the skin constantly renews itself, and
not only with its ceaseless desquamation, but with
its natural functional action, eliminates all waste,
accumulation and disease. Hence, a skin without
blemish means more than beauty; it means health.
Cut icuba, the great skin cure, and Cuticura
SoiP.an exquiste skin beautifier, prepared from
it, externally, and Cuticura Resolvent, the new
blood purifier, internally, cure every species of tor-
turing, disfiguring, itching, scaly and pimply
diseases of the skin, scalp and blood, with loss
of hair, from pimples to scrofula.
I have been afflicted for a great many years with
oad blood, which has. caused me to have sores on
my body. My hands were in a solid sore for over
a year. I had tried almost everything I could hear
of, but had given up all hopes of ever being cured,
when I saw the advertisement of the Cuticuea
Remedies. I “used one box of Cuticura, one
bottle of Resolvent, _and one cake of Soap, and
am now able to do all my own work.
Mrs. FANNIE STEWART, Staunton, Ind.
Sold everywhere. Price, Cuticura, 50c. ; Soap,
25c.; Resolvent, $l. Prepared by the Potter
Drug and Chemical Co , Boston, Mass.
4ST“Send for “How to Cure Skin .Diseases,” 64
pages, 50 illustrations, and 100 testimonials.
g
Skin, scalp and hair preserved and beau-
tified by the use of Cuticura Soap.
I have suffered all my life with skin diseases of
different kinds, and have never found permanent
relief, until, hy the advice of a lady friend, I used
your valuable Cuticuka Remedies. I gave them
a thorough trial, using six bottles of the Cuticura
Resolvent, two boxes of Cuticura, and seven
cakes of Cuticura Soar, and the result was just
what I had been told it would be a complete cure.
BELLE WADE, Richmond, Va.
Reference, G.W. Latimer, Druggist, Richtnond,Va.
Have just used your Cuticura Remedies on
one of my girls, and found it to be just what it is
recommended to be. My daughter was all broken
out on her head and body, and the hair commenced
to come out. Now she is as smooth as ever she
was, and she has only used one box of Cuticura,
one cake of Cuticura Soap, and one bottle of
Cuticura Resolvent, I doctored with quite a
number of doctors, but to no avail. lam willing-
to make affidavit to the truth of the statement,
GEORGE EAST, Macon, Mich.
For the last year I have had a species of itching,
scaly and pimply humors on my face to which I
have applied a great many methods of treatment
without success, and which was speedily and bn-
tirely cured by the Cuticura Remedies.
Mrs. ISAAC PHELPS, Ravenna, O.
Pit
IPLES, blackheads, red, rough, chapped and
I oily skin prevented by Cuticuba Soap. ,
Address: K. TOWNS & CO., SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Business Announcements.
Federated. Squatters
—AND—
Farmers’ Co-Operative Association of Australasia, Limited,
CIECT7LAE Q,TJAAAT, SYDNEY.
WOOL and PRODUCE BROKERS, STOCK and STATION AG-ENTS.
9 _
Advances Made and Deposits, Received at Current Rates. Correspondence Invited.
fg
Guinness’ Extra Stout,
FIRST QUALITY.
Bass’ Pale A le,
FIRST QUALITY.
Sole Pubveyoiis to thi
Colonial & Indian Exhibition,
London,
(By Special Appointment).
Wholesale Agents: Balchin, Johnston & Co., Sydney,
M. B. FOSTER & SONS, LONDON,
“ ZBTJGtXjIE 77 ALE AL UnTID STOUT,
)(
PUBLIC NOTICE.
It Laving come to our knowledge that ALE and STOUT of very inferior quality, in bottles with
skillfully forged labels have lately been palmed ff on the public :
We desire to warn our friends of the fact, and to state that all corks as well as capsules of tha
bottles shipped by Messrs. M. B. POSTER & SONS to this colony bear their name and address.
Any information respecting Bottled Beer purporting to be “Poster’s Bugle Brand” offered
for sale without these corks and capsules v ill be esteemed by the undersigned, who have instroo*
tions to bring to justice the perpetrators of the frauds.
A Liberal Reward will be given for information leading to conviction of the offenders.
)(
BALCI-lINr, JOHIXTSTOIff & CO., Sydney,
Agents fob Messrs. M. B. Poster & Sons.
-A.s3s for BZupper’s lElllberfelsi X>ager Beor
'(Specially Brewed for Australia). Absolutely Pree from Sediment.
THOMAS MCREERY:
MEDICAL HERBALIST,
83 Oxford Street, 4 doors above Riley Street.
Private Disease* of Both Sexes a Speciality.
Consultations Gratis. Charges very Moderate.
A Trial Solicited.
A rrnE GI t ARANTEED.
RICHMOND FAMILY HOTEL,
PORTLAND, VICTORIA.
John Shelton - Proprietor.
One of the best-abused men in New Zea-
land is Sydney Taiwhanga, the native M.P.
Sydney is a small aggressive man with a hard
cough and an intermittent wheeze; as an orator
he is more startling and voluble than impressive,
and when he warms to his work he gets excited
and laughs, and there is a continual noise of
creaking and whistling going on in his windpipes,
and a sudden drawback as in whooping-cough
suggesting that his internal fixings must be some-
what rusty and out of gear. Sydney, with all his
faults, is undoubtedly loyal to his trust as a native
member, and as such “irreconcilable” to the
backbone, which partly accounts for the abuse to
which he has been hithert > subjected by the N.Z.
press. During the late Stout-Vogel administra-
tion, Native Minister Ballance was making head-
way with the great native difficulty. He had
established friendly relations with the big chief,
Whahanui, who has more land under his control
than any other man in New Zealand. Whahanui
agreed to the railway being made through the
Waikato to Taupo, and he was within an ace of
accepting a seat in the Upper House and becoming
a Government life-pensioner. At this stage,
Sydney Taiwhanga put his oar in and back-
watered Ballance badly. He suggested a cartoon
for a small illustrated paper then published at
Auckland, in which the Maori race was repre-
sented as an old rata-tree. Ballance was depicted
sitting in its fork driving a big wedge into it with
a mallet of gold. The thin end of the wedge
was marked “ railways,” the thick end an
“ M.L.C.-ship and £200 a year.” bydney showed
the cartoon to Whahanui, with the result that the
seat in the Council was declined, the surveyors
were stopped in the King country, while the great
chief and landowner has ever since maintained a
distant attitude towards the Native Office.
A Melbourne gentleman, well known as
an upholder of fusty creeds and dogmas, has sup-
plied the local Herald with a droll testimony to
what he calls the “genuineness” of the late Joe
Fraser’s phrenology business. This sage states
that a comparatively unregenerate friend placed
his head at the mercy of Fraser, who ran his fist
across the various bumps and advised the visitor
“to cultivate the religious side of his nature,
hitherto almost barren.” Which venerable gag
was accepted by the Herald correspondent as
convincing evidence that “all phrenologists are
not quacks.” The value of this opinion, however,
is discounted by the fact that no head-feeler in
this mundane sphere was ever yet known to ab-
stain from recommending clients to bring out
their bump of reverence and give more attention
to matters connected with the soul. They all do
it. If a bishop, divested of his gaiters, hat, white
tie and other symbols of redemption, called upon
a phrenologist the odds are Potts Point to a
stale tomato that the bishop would be told
to peg away at the spiritual side of his
nature, because religious feeling was his weakest
point. To set up in the phrenology business without
being alive to this wrinkle were to court igno-
minious failure. It works equally well with sin-
ner or saint, because the former thinks “ Bai
Jove ! old professor found out what a sad dogl
was,” while the latter meekly concludes that the
good man’s exhortations were doubtless required,
for even the best of us are but miserable worms
giving too much thought to fleshly vanities. The
writer never gave poor Joe Fraser a turn, but he
has tried 17 other phrenologists (at prices ranging
from to twopence) everyone of
whom recommended the speedy cultivation of
“ reverence and religious faith.” To which end
we have steeped ourself in Bulletin theology,
and gradually learned to accept the story of Jonah
as a divine truth.


Business Announcements.
LOONG SHAN TEA HOUSE
NOW OPEN.
Quoxig Tart & Co.’s
EXTENSIVE NEW PREMISES
(Nearly opposite Theatre Royal).
FIRST-CLASS GRILLS,
T
A
R
T
C
O
¥
A
N
y
As well as all kinds of Refreshments, may
be obtained from 7.30 a.m. to 11.30 p.m.
CUP OF DELICIOUS TEA.
ICED DRINKS OF ALL KINDS, &c.
The rooms are splendidly furnished and
fitted up. In addition to the large and
well - appointed Refreshment Rooms,
gentlemen will find on the Second Floor
Commodious and Comfortable Smoking
and Conversation Rooms, furnished with
Chess, Draughts, &c., &c.
TO THE LADIES.
On the First Floor will be found Nice
Private Room for Ladies, convenient for
Writing, Reading, &c., also Retiring
Rooms and Lavatory, with both hot and
cold water laid on. Inspection Invited.
Finest Teas imported—Packets |lb. and
upwards supplied. Orders promptly at-
tended to.
a
u
o
N
G
T
A
R
T
137 KING STREET,
SYDNEY.
f
i!
MANUFACTURERS I
& IMPORTERS or
I .A. t.
HATS CAPS
438 CEORCE ST
3VDNEY %
0/c/ro3ife La*sftCers
/s
Branch :
678 GEORGB STEEf' 1 ’
BRICKFIELD HILL,
{Next to Craig and Aitken.)
sl*B US/tf.
* 1801 *
BARRY’S
Tricopterais
FOR
THE HAIR
gf
An elegant dress
ing. exquisitely per
fumed removes all
impurities from the
Scalp, prevents baldness and gray hair, and
causes the hair to grow Thick. Soft and
‘Beautiful. Infallible for curing eruptions
of diseases of the glands, muscles
and integuments, and relieving cuts, burns,
bruises, sprains, &c.
Barry’s Pearl Cream
Imparts to the darkest skin a clear, natural
white, tinged with the faintest rose-blush
It speedily removes wrinkles, freckles, sun
burn and tan, and mantles the faded cheek
with youthful bloom and beauty.
Barry’s Hair Dye.
Put up in two forms, with and without
a preparation Without the preparation
gradually colors the hair any shade desired,
from a light brown lo a black With the
preparation, instantly colors the hair a na-
tural jet black the moment it is applied.
Cfiution-'S one of these preparations gen-
uine without the trade mark of Bakglat
& Co , New York, affixed to each bottle.
J. SITTERLIN,
FROM PARIS,
Ladies’ Hairdresser. Wigmaker, & Perfumer,
25 SYDNEY ARCADE, SYDNEY.
HISTORICAL AND FANCY HAIRDRESSING A
SPECIALTY.
Manufacturer of All Kinds of Theatrical
and Street Wigs.
Ammonlalctl Quinine,
The most efficient Hair Lotion, to prevent prema-
ture baldness.
Sitterlin’s Vegetable Hair-dye,
The only Hair-dye in the colonies to restore Light
Hair to its natural colour. All shades.
Bucoess Guaranteed.
THE PRESCRIPTION
D. CZJ» Xji ,
WHAT IS IT?
Xliomas Ross,
TOBACCO 4. CIGAR IMPORTER.
27 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY,
(Corner of Pitt Street.)
A large stock of Genuine llavannah Cigars, of the
choicest Brands to select from.
Sole Importer ol the Celebrated “ Flor de Bonllo ”
Brand of Cigars and ** Empire Cigarettes.”
Business Announcements.
gf
GB. MODINI, Gunmaker, informs his Customers
■ and the Public in general that he has the largest
assortment of Firearms in the colony. Qualities and prices
to defy competition. Agent for the following celebrated
gunmakers: — J. Purdey & Sons, Ch. John Rigby
and Co., Joseph Lang & Sons, Ch. Osborne & Co., Thomas
Bland & Son. A large assortment of various other makers
always on hand, viz., W. W. Greener, Scott, Webley,
Hollis & Sons, Riley and Cashmore. All goods will be
faithfully guaranteed at 602 George-Street, Sydney.
Price list on application.
Chaff! Chaff! Chaff!
ANOTHER NEW DEPARTURE.
The CITY PRODUCE COMPANY
Having erected the most complete and extensive
Chaff-cutting Plant in New South Wales, are in a
position to supply a
Single Bag of Chaff at Wholesale Prices
for CASK.
Oaten Chaff, 4/6 per cwt.'j
Mixed „ 3/6 per cwt. I
Oaten ~ 4/6 per cwt.
Mixed „ 3/6 per cwt.J
Quality
Guaranteed.
Free delivery within the city. Horse-feed of all
descriptions of best quality at lowest prices for
Cash. One trial only is requested. We guarantee
to give satisfaction.
CITY PRODUCE CO.,
Hay Street, Haymarket, SYDNEY.
• •
HIGHLY NUTRITIVE
oeoa
MAY BE OBTAINED IN LABELLED TINS Oft PACKETS.THROUGHOUT THE COIONY.
*
For
IR.
ROWLANDS’
MACASSAR OIL.
Used for 100 years. Prevents and Arrests Baldness
strengthens the Hair and prr duces a luxuriant and gloss;
growth ; also prepared in a Golden Colour.
ROWLANDS’
ODONTO.
A pure, non-gritty Tooth Powder. It whitens the
Teeth, prevents decay, gives fragrance to the breath.
ROWLANDS’
KALYDOR.
A harmless emollient milk for beautifying the com-
plexion. Removes Freckles, Tan, Sunburn, Roughness
and Redness, and produces soft, fair and delicate skin.
ROWLANDS’ ESSENCE OF TYRE d^ao.
Grey Hair a permanent Brown or Black. Ask Chemists and Perfumers for ROWLANDS’
Articles, of 20, Hatton Garden, London, England, and avoid imitations.
THE
Wolseley Sheep-Shearing* Machine.
PASTORALISTS are notified that, to avoid disappointment,
no time should be lost in Booking Orpers for next Season.
Agents: J. H. GED D E S & CO.,
19 PHILLIP STREET, SYDNEY.
ALLAN A. MARSHALL & CO.,
Enchkeers, Coppersmiths, Brass and Bell Founders,
Finishers, Plumbers, Ship & General Smiths,
Gasfittbrs, Art & Mediasval Metal Workers
ROLLER SIiATES (any make) with RKASS or WOOREN WHEELS.
Verity’s Gas Fires, Heaters and Ventilators at greatly Reduced Prices—ll,ooo Fires already in use.
Importers and Manufacturers of Diving Gear, Yacht and Boat Work of every description in
Iron or Brass, Ships’ Single and D6uble Action Valve Closets, Fire Hydrants, Hose and all appliances.
Bon Accord Works, O Macquarie Place, Sydney.
THE
PLUM”
RAZOR.
fp;
•*om
«iAimd„
3HX
w
years.
Strong
Razor
E recommend gentlemen who shave themselves to try the “ PLUM ” RAZOR. It is purely
Hollow Ground and NEVER requires Grinding and we guarantee each Razor for two
Set ready for use. Price, single Razor, 10s. 6d. ;or a i>air of Razors, Black Handles, in
Leather Case, £1 Is. In Ivory, single Razor, 15s. Pair in case, 30s. Send P. 0.0. Every
sent by Registered Pest.
CRAIG & AITKEN,
“POTOSI” HAIUDKESSINO .SALOON,
680 GEOBGE STREET SYDNEY.
Medical.
ARE YOU NERVOUS?
IF so,
DON’T MISS THIS!
What everyone says is bound to be true, and young
and old, rich and poor, physicians who recommend, ana
patients who try
The Krupp Galvanic Chain Belt,
All agree in praising that most scientific of Electro
Therapeutical Appliances. For Rheumatism it is un-
rivalled. Lumbago at once succumbs to its power. The
Nervous are strengthened and the Debilitated restored to
perfect health and vigour. In short, the appliance is an
unfailing cure for all Nervous, Sexual, or Chronic Diseases,
and is GUARANTEED to ABSOLUTELY CURE, com-
pletely and lastingly, the following complaints:—
Dyspepsia, Neuralgia, Pains in the Back and Chest,
Lumbago, Catarrh, Rheumatism, Dumb Ague,
Nervous Debility, Paralysis, Kidney Complaint,
Spinal Disease, Female Weakness, Diseases of the
Liver, Impotence, Seminal Weakness, Diabetes,
Sciatica, Atrophy, Gout, Indigestion, Asthma, Piles,
Epilepsy Spermatorrheea, Specks before the Eyes,
Excessive Heart Palpitation, Defective Memory.
An Unfailing Cure For Varicocele.
It is -a PORTABLE BODY BATTERY, and contains
special appliances for both sexes; therefore, why waste
your money and health by procuring and taking USELESS
DRUGS ? Electricity, when properly applied, is acknow-
ledged by all leading and unprejudiced physicians to be
the only' safe and radical cure for Nervous and Sexual
Diseases, and the thousands of testimonials received by
the Krupp Belt Co. from leading personages throughout
Australasia prove the unquest enable curative properties
of Electricity as applied by theappliance above referred to.
Our confidence in this appliance is so complete, that
we send the Belt out on trial, and guarantee it
to give perfect satisfaction. For full particulars as to
terms, etc., send for our large illustrated treatise, free,
in which these Belts are fully illustrated, the action of
electricity on the nervous system explained, and a lot of
useful information on nervous and sexual diseases given.
This treatise also contains facsimile of testimonials received
from some of our clients who have tried our Belts. The
originals of these testimonials produced on application.
The prices of the Krupp Galvanic Chain Belt and
Suspensory are from £l.
Sole Inventor Carl Krupp.
Business Manager . . A. W. Courtney.
Address all communications to the
Krupp CJalvanic Chain Belt Co.,
Box 047, G.P.0., Sydney, N.S.W.
Remember—The K.G. Chain Belt cures without medicine,
is easy to wear, is sent on approval, and the first cost is
the only cost.
INDISPENSABLE pOR LADIJS
AND ALL PERSONS
With a Delicate Skin;
If you wish to Protect yourself against CHAPPED
HANDS and CRACKED SKIN, and to keep YOUR
COMPLEXION in good condition during the whole
year use
MOUSONS
COCOA BUTTER SOAP
Cocoa Butter Soap is a real skin-beautifler, and a balm to
young and old alike.
MOUSON & CO., PERFUMERS & TOILET SOAP MANUFACTURERS,
FRA X K FORT-ON-THE-MAINE.
LONDON: 32 & 33 lIAINSELL-ST., E.C. PARIS: 29 RUE RADOTERILB
Full guarantee for perfect purity is offered by the
sole Manufacturers, Mouson & Co.
JULIUS GOLDSCHMIDT & CO.,
231 CLARENCE-ST., SYDNEY,
SOLE AGENTS FOR AUSTRALASIA.
A Wonderful Remedy-
MARSHALL’S TONIC NERVINE
Is now Universally Acknowledged to be a wonderful
Remedy for Nervous and General Debility, Nervous
Prostration, Torpidity of the Liver, Indigestion, Palpit-
ation of the Heart, Nervous Headache, Diabetes, Lassitude,
Impaired Nutrition, Neuralgia, Hypochondria, Loss of
Energy-, and Appetite, Female Complaints, Dizziness
Noises in the Head and Ears, Loss of Vital Power, Alcholic
Craving, Premature Decline, Impoverished Blood, Im-
paired Sight ami Memory, Consumption in its early stages,
Effects of Youthful Indiscretions, Mania, and all diseased
conditions of the system preceding from Deficiency- of
Nerve Force. A few doses speedily afford relief, whilst a
course effects a permanent cure. Innumerable instances
emphatically testify to the truth of this statement.
Thousands of testimonials invite the afflicted to test it for
themselves.
Each Drop is Worth a Drop of Gold.
There is no remedy like Marshall’s Tonic Nervine for
Female Complaints. Every female should have a
bottle ready at hand, because for Irregularities, etc.,
it surpasses all others. As the nervous system is the
main-spring of human vigor and healthful regularity,
so where this complicated organism is deranged, Marshall’s
Tonic Nervine acts with a precision and curative effect
like the day spring dispersing the shades of night. The
whole organic system which depends upon the nerves for
its streams of electric force is recuperated and renewed
with th s Great Vitalises The muscles rebound with the
energy of youth, appetite and healthful condition follow.
The skin becomes bright and clear, and the winter of
disease is made summer by the glorious sun of health.
Thousands of restored patients everywhere gladly support
the forcible truth of these assertions, and one trial will
render certainly- doubly sure.
Marshall’s Tonic Nervine
Is sold by all Chemists and Storekeepers, and is
ONLY PREPARED BY
MARSHALL BROTHERS.
410, George Street, Sydney.
N.B.—ln consequence of spurious imitations of “Tonis
Nervine,” which are calculated to deceive the public,
Marshall Bros, have to request that purchasers see that
the Label on every bottle bears their signature, thus—
without which no bottle is genuine. Ask for Marshall's
Tonic Nervine'and see that you get it. Trade mark:
“Tonic Nervine.”
Dr. westcott’s amenorrhcea
PILLS for Ladies, when taken for a few
days before, quickly correct all irregularities
from whatever cause arising ; 2». 9d. and 4s. 6d.,
by post 3s. and ss. W. H. SOUL and 00., 190
Pitt-street, Sydney, Agents.


Medical.
eureka
\S
electric belt,*
A / a/V ‘ . S.X W . V
Nr
H y )
/A
X
A NEVER, FAILING CUBE FOE, ALL.
DISEASES OF THE NERVOUS SYSTEM.
Complete with Suspensory Appliances from £l. 0. 0 and
upwards. This famous Electric Magnetic Belt will cure
NERVOUS 'DEBILITY, Seminal Debility, Impotence,
and all weakness caused by indiscretion. Pains in the
Back, Lumbago, Giddiness, Rheumatism, Kidney and
Bladder complaints, and in fact any disease of the Nervous
Bystem. The currents are steady and constantly felt by
the wearer. It has great improvements over all other
belts, we are willing to furnish those belts on 30 days
trial, and accept payment after they have proved them-
eclves what we represent them to be. Those belts are
made for the specific purpose of producing a continuous,
mild, soothing current of electricity through all the weak-
ened parts, restoring them to health and vigorous strength,
even the worst case permanently cured in three months.
It is more convenient to wear than any other Belt.
A Book illustrated, containing full information and testi-
monials from prominent people throughout Australia,
and informing persons how they may obtain these belts
without paying for them until they have proved them com-
petent to cure any disease of the Nervous System, will be
forwarded to any address on receipt of a 2d stamp for
postage, A
Address:- VOLTAIC BELT COMPANY
Box 916, G. P. 0., Sydney.
Dr. Janies D. Llewellyn,
L.R.0.P., M.E.C.S., L.S.A., LOND.,
Registered by the Medical Boards of Victoria, New South
Wales and England,
SPECIALIST
Chronic, Nervous and Genito-Urinary Diseases,
may be consulted daily at
-3 25 LONSDALE STREET—
{between Swanston <t Elizabeth StsJ,
MELBOURNE.
Confidence Absolute, Curable Cases Guaranteed.
All Personal Consultations are free ; but by
Letter, a Fee of £1 is charged, which is inclusive
of medicines. Patients living at a distance and
unable to attend personally can be treated by post,
and have their remedies forwarded per mail or
express to any part of Australia, carefully packed
and concealed from observation.
A Practical Manual on Special Diseases,
expressly written for the guidance of sufferers from
“Nervous Debility” and Private Diseases —price,
3s. 6d. (post paid.) Copies may be obtained from
the Publishers, “ The Otto Publishing Oo.,” No. 4
A’Beckett-street, Melbourne, and all Booksellers.
A Wonderful Discovery.
Eose’s Celebrated Eye Lotion.
THIS valuable Lotion is guaranteed to cure SWELLING
and SANDY BLIGHT, INFLAMED EYES and LIDS
DIMNESS OF SIGHT, &c. It will be found very bene-
ficial and cooling to those who have weak eyes, or whose
work compels them to strain their eyes. Highly
recommended by tire leading Oculists.
T The Public are requested to notice the
wa.UUJ.UiJ. 1 words, Rose s Pclobrat c«l Eye
Lotion, with the Trade Mark (a Hose) on Dark Blue
Ground, is on the label affixed to each box containing the
Lotion, without which it is a forgery.
ASK FOE
Rose’s Celebrated Eye Lotion,
Not tor ROSE EYE LOTION,
as you will get a Lotion composed of Rose Water palmed
off on you for the genuine article, thus misleading the
purchaser for the sake of the vendor’s extra profit.
Manufactured only by the Proprietor,
A. ROSE
Dispensing and Manufacturing Chemist,
531 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Wholesale by the Proprietor and all Wholesale Houses.
Established 1858. By Post 3s. Gd.
Manufacturer of Dr. SOUTHAN’S GOUT and
RHEUMATIC PILLS.
ERV O U S
DEBILITY
FRER ’ personally, or by post HERR RASS
t h iU celebrated DANISH HERBALIST am
EXPERT SPECIALIST. A medical book sent free oi
receipt of a 4d., stamped self-addressed envelope, contain
lug valuable hints. Try Herr Rass-Mussen’s Pills, whicl
»re a, guaranteed cure. Price, £1 2s. (id. per course. Sen
unobserved. Address
Herr Rass-Musson, “Rosclund Villa,”
Opposite Rifle Butts,
MOORE PARK ROAD, SYDNEY.
BROU’S INJECTION.
Hygienic, Infallible & Preservative.
Cures promptly, without additional means, all
p ecent or chronic discharges of the urinary organs.
Sold in Paris by
J. FERRE,
(Successor to Brou) Pharmacist, 102 rue Richelieu.
Agent in Sydney:
E. DOUBLET, 165 CLARENCE STREET.
F. C. NICHOLLS & Co.
WHOLESALE
Confectioners’ & Pastrycooks,
City Buildings:
736 George Street, 730
haymabket.
Steam Works :
817, 619, 621, 539, 541 HARRIS STREE
Wedding Calres, &c., Made to Order.
A
Medical.
WONDERFUL MEDICINE.
Beecham’s Pills
0
ft
PATENT
PILLS.
6*
&
Are universally admitted
to be worth a Guinea
a Box for bilious
and nervous disorders,
such as wind and pain in
the stomach, sick head-
ache, giddiness, fulness
and swelling after meals,
dizziness, and drowsiness,
cold chills, flushings of
heat, loss of appetite,
shortness of breath, cos-
tivencss, scurvy, blotches
on the skin, disturbed
sleep, frightful dreams,
and all nervous and trem-
bling sensations, &c. The
first dose will give relief
in twenty minutes. Every
sufferer is earnestly invited to try one box of these
Pills, and they will be acknowledged to be
Worth a Guinea a Box.
For females of all ages these Pills are invaluable,
as a few doses of them carry off all humors, and
bring about all that is required. No female should
be without them. There is no medicine to be found
equal to BEECHAM’S PILLS for removing any
•obstruction or irregularity of the system. If taken ac-
cording to the directions given with each box they will
soon restore females of all ages to sound and robust
health. This has been proved by thousands who have
tried them, and found the benefits which are ensured by
their use.
For a weak stomach, impaired digestion and all disorders
of the liver, they act like “ MAGIC,” and a few doses will
be found to work wonders upon the most important
organs in the human machine. They strengthen the
whole muscular system, restore the long-lost complexion,
bring back the keen edge of appetite, and arouse into ac-
tion with the ROSEBUD of health the whole physical
energy of the human frame. These are “ FACTS ” testified
continually by members of all classes of society ; and
one of the best guarantees to the nervous and debilitated
is, Beecham’s Pills have the largest sale of any patent
medicine in the world.
Beecham’s Magic Cough Pills.
As a remedy for Coughs in general, Asthma, Bronchial
Affections, Hoarseness, Shortness of Breath, Tightness
and Oppression of the Chest, Wheezing, &c., these Pills
stand unrivalled. They are the best ever offered to the
public and will speedily remove that sense of oppression
and difficulty of breathing which nightly deprive the
patient of rest. Let any person give Beeciiam’s Couoii
Pills a trial and the most violent Cough will in a
short time be removed.
Prepared only and sold wholesale and retail by the pro-
prietor, Thomas Beecham, Chemist, St. Helens, Lancashire,
England, in boxes at Is. t.Jd. and 2s. fid. each.—Sold by
all Druggists and Patent Medicine Dealers everywhere.
N.B.—Full directions are given with each box.
CONSULT
CORE & HOGG
ft
THE EMINENT
SPEGIJLIiISTS,
On all Diseases OTthe Genito urinary Organs
Nervous Diseases, and Private Complaints,
I, CORBETTS BUILDINGS, corner of George
and Elizabeth Streets, Brisbane.
OOt.BULTATIONS FREE. PERSONALLY OR BY LETTER.
Rnx 89 G.P.0.1 Book sent on receipt of 2d. stamp.
Prof. R. T. SELBY
Is considered to be the most Successful Practi-
tioner in the Australian colonies. All sufferers
should read the Doctor’s most unique work on
Nervous, Private and other Diseases. The
Advice on Marriage is worth its weight in gold.
Send your full address, and we will send (post
free) One Copy. Write to Prof. R. T. SELBY,
Cleveland Street, Surry Hill, SYDNEY.
Hotels.
■
[sJPI*;
mow
wiamoa
o /*°£
S .N 3
0 H
1 3-i-
BOWDEJXT’S HOTBt,,
Elizabeth S prebt (Near Hunter St ), Sydney.
JOHN C. BOWDEN Proprietor
WJBSTERM HOTBX,,
Warrnanibool, Victoria.
THIS old-established and well-known Family
and Commercial Hotel combines all the
requirements of a First-Class Hotel with home
comforts.
It is in full view of the sea and within a short
distance of the picturesque scenery of the Hopkiu’s
River, which affords the finest Hod and Fly Fishing
in the colony.
Arrangements made for the Hire of Rowing and
Fishing Boats and Fishing Tackle. Bait, etc.,
supplied, m' Good Shooting in the immediate
neighbourhood.
It is also within Two Minutes’ walk of the Hot
and Cold Sea Water Baths, which are unsur-
passed in the colonies.
Livery and Letting Stables.
Booking Office for Cobb & Co.’s Coaches. Thos.
Cook & Sons’ Hotel Coupons taken.
GEORGE W. CLARE - Proprietor.
J3usines. 3 Announcements
The bank of new Zealand.
Sydney Branches:
G l PITT STREET, and 538 GEORGE STREET.
Paid-up Capital ... ... £1,125,000
The Bank has Agents in all the principal cities
throughout the United States of America and
Canada, and can oiler special facilities for dealing
in Bullion, Bills of Exchange, Commercial and
Travellers’ Letters of Credit.
Drafts issued and Bills collected on most favour-
able terms, at rates which can bo ascertained on
application.
N. E. GIBLIN, Manager.
SrSLeebd-t ! :irlL«3Ea.oi. 2
“THE BULLETIN’S”
History of Botany Bay,
By Arthur Gayl I,
Profusely Illustrated by The Bulletin’s well-
known Artists,
L. HOPKINS and PHIL MAY.
Price ~ C3;0.€5
Per post, Is. 3d.
Wholesale Agents :
Victoria; A. Benjamin, 821 Little Collins-st., Melbourne
Melbourne : Gordon & Goteh,
Brisbane: J ! . H. Thompson, Bookseller, George-street.
Adelaide; Neville & Go.
Tasmanian: Fitzgerald Bros., George-street, Launceston.
E P P
G-EATEFUL—COMFORTING-
COCOA
MUSICAL.
PATENT SCALE INDICATOR for Pupils Learning the
x Piano. Price, 3s. 6d. And IMPROVED VAMPING
SYSTEM, without a knowledge of Music, ss. od., posted
to the country from Ingham’s, Sydney Ai’cade.
Country Agents wanted—Stationers.
EMPIRE BXJILDINOS,
Collins Street West, MELBOUEM3
(Near Scott's Hotel).
WE beg to inform our Friends and the
Public that we have Opened these
Grand Premises as an
OYSTER SALOON
AND
Continental Dining Rooms.
PRIVATE DINNERS provided on Shortest Notice.
Moderate Charges—
BINI ■’T" IS ,
PROPRIETORS.
MANUFACTURING HATTERS
GEORGE STREET
SYDNEY
IMPORTERS OF ALLTHE
NEWESTSHAPES.
And at ALBERT STREET, BRISBANE.
r
(
(0
g
K
vgS
/|UCH
INC
FO
n>
« s
-/_
MANUFACTURED 6Y -
'JMMCS CHAHHOk S/arbnvrS 1 -
Sold Inj cM Sa.'CC Id I' SA'rrA'rfir.-,, **
Business Announcements.
; IJHE THREE GREAT LIGHTS!
The Needles Patent Gas-making Machine;
The Harvey Patent Safety Kerosene Lamp;
AND THE
New Era Portable Gas Lamp.
The Harvey Lamp has' been adopted by the
Railway Commissioners for lighting the
trams. We were awarded the Highest Order of
Merit and Special Mention by experts at the
late _ Melbourne Exhibition for our lighting
mediums. Over GOOD Harvtfy Lamps are in use
in this colony, and for all lighting purposes are
giving universal satisfaction. Those Lamps can
be seen on _ on o of the North Shore ferry-boats,
and are suitable for all classes of vessels. The
Inventor offers £2OO to anyone producing as good
a Kerosene Burner.
Patentees for Australasia:
E3C* T. «sfe 00.,
4»4 Itcnt Street South. SYWNEY ;
14 Arcade, Adelaide, S.A.; Argent Street, Brokks Hilt, ;
Parkside Iron Works, Melbourne.
Ip TIE E BY POST for six penny Stamps, a
Medical Treatise by that eminent Erench
Hospital Physician and Parisian Specialist, Dr.
KABONSKI, showing sufferers how they may
cure themselves of Nervous Debility, Lost Vitality,
&c., &c., without consulting a medidal man.
Address: “ Parisian,” P.O, Box 7GG, Sydney.
Z3T A BLESSING IN EVERY FAMILY.
HOLLOWAY’S PILLS AND OINTMENT.
There is not a country in the civilised world‘where,
the healing virtuesofihes o grand medicines have not been
recognised by thousands of sulfcrera. In ail the ordinary
ailments of humanity their beneficent action is at once
recognised. Fullest directions ,are supplied' for their use
in every disease. IF YOU SUFFER, TRY THEM. Manu-
factured only at 70 New Osfokd-st., London. Pur-
chasers should look to the Label on the Boxes and Pots.
If the address is not 523. Oxford-§treet, London, they are"
spurious.
—THE—
SYDNEY SOAP 8c CANDLE CO.,
Limited,
MANUFACTURERS OF-
St earl ne and Paraffin Gandies,
HOT & COLD WATER SOAP
Of every Description
Glycerine, Lubricating, Machine, Cloth and
Neatsfoot Oils.
■ The only Genuine and Original
Magic Cleanser Cold Water Soap.
To be had at all Grocers and Storekeepers.
Upfold’s Tree Pest Exterminator,
Its Effects are Marvellous!
“ Wiiat is Home without a Picture?”
Xj. BEENASCONI,
(Late It. Smith)
Elite Carver, Gilder, and Picture Frame Maher,
159 Clarence Street Only, SYDNEY
(near Central Coffee Palace).
Plush Work a Speciality. Mounts Cut to any Design.
. H. HILDER,
BOOT UPPER MANUFACTURER
IMPORTER OF
ENGLISH AND FOREIGN LEATHER,
Elastic Mel), Grindery, »te,,
Wholesale and Retail Leather Merchant
539 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
PAPER-HANGINGS.
Oiis,C6wURS « Paints.
WALE PAPERS From 3°
,P£R
ROLL
2^l
B2p George St.
fg
f
Brickfield Hill.
WALTEB ZEIOZPIK:,
General Merchant & Commission Agent,
199 SUSSEX STREET, SYDNEY.
C CONSIGNMENTS of all Produce, Live Stock, etc.
J received and realised in the best markets. Account
Sales and Proceeds remitted the day after sale. Orders
executed for all Goods from Sydney-at Lowest Wholesale
Prices ' \ -
Speciality. —Pure-bred and Pedigree Stock of all de-
scriptions Bought or Solo ox Commission. All communi-
cations referring to Pure-brcd Poultry and Eggs for Setting
to be addressed as usual to WALTER HOPE, fionavrO*
Prize Poultry Farm, Liverpool, N.S.W.
OI LCIAL NOTICE.— The Sydney Bulletin.
Vl , T.astnnJiian ( Edition Publishers, ITI’A-
O ERA LI) BROS. Mibscription (payable strictly
in advance), SixShiliings and Sixpence per quar-
ter, or One Bound per annum.
Tin: Bulletin will be on Sale every Friday at
the Office, George Street, Launceston, o" from the
Runners in the street.
P
RINOE OE WALES’ HOTEL,
near Opera House, Bourke-st., East; Melbourne!
This well-known Sporting House is conducted
in First-class St yle. Every convenience. Centrally
Situated.


TOBACCO
w
IfpSM
its
ft
1
©
*
a
o
X
o
S/
yo oY
SIR ROGER
50
:
a
V
Z
pi
gf
Dr. RIDGE’S
FOOD
FOR INFANTS AND INVALIDS
Has an enormous sale in England
and is now toeing introduced into the
Colonies.
Every Storekeeper should get a supply
as every AVise mother will certainly
use it.
DR. RIDGE'S ROYAL FOOD MILLS,
LONDON, ENGLAND.
UKSSS
IW
am
BOS'
BROWN’S
SATIN
POLISH
FOR—
LADIES’ AND CHILDREN’S
BOOTS AND SHOES.
Awarded highest honors at
Phila., 1870 Melbourne, 1880
Berlin, 1877 Frankfort, 1881
Paris, 1878 Amsterd’m 1883
New Orleans, 1884-85, and wherever
exhibited.
Paris medal on every bottle.
Beware of Imitations.
This Blacking is in liquid form and is applied to shoes
or other articles of leather by means of a sponge, attached
to the cork by a wire, so Chat the blacking can be used by
anyone without soiling the fingers. No polishing brush
is required. It dries immediately after being applied, and
will not soil the most delicate clothing.
Sold largely in Australia through Commission Merchants
and Dealers.
B. T. BROWN & CO.,
Boston, U.S.A., MTgs.
T> R I T T E N B E R G & C O.
IMPOKTEKS,
81 Clarence St , Wynynnl Square.
Furniture , M irrors, Oleographs, and Mouldings.
ATKINSON'S
ENGLISH PERFUMERY
surpasses ail others tor its natural
fragrance.
ATKINSON’S
QUININE HAIR LOTION,
Unsurpassed for promoting the growth
and improving the appearance of the
hair, guaranteed perfectly harmless.
ATKINSON’S
FLORIDA WATER,
An exceptionally fine Perfume for
the Handkerchief, distilled from the
choicest exotics.
Of nil Dealers and of the Manufacturers—
J. & E. ATKINSON,
24, OLD BOND STREET, LONDON.
s. TiaJe Mark—'“White Ilose”on‘‘Oolden
j j ro," with Address in full.
T. LAWLESS, Junk.
37 MARKET STREET,
SYDNEY,
NEVER TR A YEL YVI TII OUT IT.
WANTED IN EVERY HOUSE.
a
m
C *? EOT UAILY DESTROYSj
Ail NOXIOUS
FLEAS.FUES, BEETLES MOSQUITOES.
COCKR 0 ACHES. SF*:RA c AND IS
AT THE SAME TIME QUITE:
HARMIESSTO BIRDS DOGS.
FOWLS QROTHERpv|
ANIMALS : Mh W l '
gf
gf
gfgfg
g fg
WANTED IN EYEEY HOUSE.
Ask for KRUSE’S INSECTICIDE, and Beware
of the Numerous Imitations.
CLARENDON HOTEL, MANLY,
The Brighton of New South Wales.
A T the CLARENDON HOTEL, Banquets, Suppers, Private Dinners, Evening Parties, etc., are
/\ served on the Shortest Notice in the Large Dining Hall. Besides having a most recherche
Dinner, you can enjoy from the balconies the magnificent view of the sea and surrounding country;
here also you can have good company, good wines—in fact, everything that can possibly make one
comfortable can be found at this really first-class hotel. Pishing and Picnic Parties provided. Table
dr Hole at One o’clock daily and Sundays. No expense is spared by Mrs. Kilminsteb to make her
\ isitors comfortable and her Hotel the best in the colony.
Mrs. KIIj3M:i]XrSTEH, Clarendon Hotel,
Opposite OCEAN BEACH, MANLY,
JOHN BXJCKHAM,
449 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
Tents, Tarpaulins, Wool, Dray and Waggon Covers
(greased or oiled), Canvas Water Bottles, Coolers, Whim
Buckets, Horse Rugs, Nose Bags, Oiled Loin Cloths. Send
to or call at
449 ELIZABETH STREET, MELBOURNE
(Oldest Established House in the Trade).
SURVEYORS TENTS A SPECIALITY.
68 Hunter Street, and 8 Bligh Street,
SYDNEY.
IF 1 . SHEOEDEE
LIYERY, BAIT, LET-OUT AND COMMIS-
SION STABLES.
Horses and Vehicles of every description for
Sale or Hire; also, good reliable Ladies or Gentle-
men’s Hacks.
WILLIAM CARGILL,
Photographic Stock Importer,
2 6 MARKET STREET, SYDNEY.
fg f
v '
A h
> 'l'
9&.
D
\I/V
\^|V/
(0
c
o
!UQH X
: \ W
Offices
Vi'
_>(/_
Mr LD u R A
Melbourne
ReNMARK-
ADELA I DE _
England.
Victoria.
Ch&ffcy Irrica'io:: Office:, Sv: ansi n Street.
South Australia.
Cavendish Chambers, Grenfell Street.
J. E. Mathew Vincent. (ChiefCommissioner)
Tro*d«l & C?
Cornwall Buildings, 35 Quern Victoria St.
LONDON EC-
PRINC E OF WALES II () TE L,
St. Kilcla, Victoria.
Within Five Minutes from STATION, and One Minute from ESPLANADE and BATHS.
MRS. KONG MONO ... ... ... Proprietress.
LEA & PERRINS'
Purchasers should see that (he Label on every bottle of the original
WORCESTERSHIRE SAUCE
bears the Signature, thus
Ask for Lea k Perrins’ Sauce, and see Name on Wrapper, Label, Bottle and Stopper.
Wholesale and for Export /»/ (he Proprietors, Worcester; Crosse t; Blackwell, London, Sp.}
and h'j Grocers and Oilmen throughout t-he World,
Everyone should Read
The
“HISTORY of BOTANY BAY,’
ARTHUR. GAYLL.
Profusely Illustrated by “ The Bulletin’s” well-known Artists, L. Hopkins and Phil May.
Price
ONE SHILLING; per Post, Is. 3d
May be had from Agents, or direct from “The Bulletin” Office.
Agents —Victorian :A. Benjamin, Little Collins Street East, Melbourne ; Tasmanian : Fitzgerald Brothers, George Street,
Launceston; Queensland: J. H. Thompson, George Street, Brisbane.
