

AITKEN’B ALE
LIFE BUOY BRAND.
T l-1 IS BEST lIM THE MARKET.
u
DICKENS
? ?>
USED BY THE LATE CHARLES DICKENS,
AMI SUPPLIED TO THE PRINCIPAL (LI BS IN SVIINET.
Harrir>ox\ & Attwood, 251 George-st., Syc3.rn.ey.
Sole Agents for 3XTew South Wales.
ROBERTS’ HOTEL,
3*Cex3set Street, ©“STIDIsTIB-S-.
. . . • ; /
UNit J VALLE I) ACCOMMODATION.
rpHE COLONIAL MUTUAL LIFE ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED.
BRANCHES THROUGHOUT THE COLONIES AND THE UNITED KINGDOM.
Policies issued under the Ordinary, IVXocli li oLl Tontiue and Mortuary Olvldenci Isi'STEMS.
BALDWIN DRY AIR REFRIGERATOR.
• ’ ...
’
Beware of the many so-called Dry Air Refrigerators advertised by unscrupulous Manufacturers and Dealers, intending
to deceive the public and trad* upon <ur reputation. This is the original and celebrated Dry Air Refrigerator, made
famous by its successful competition at the leading Exhibitions in the United States for the past Six Years, known as
the Baldwin Dry Air Refrigerator.
WHITE MOUNTAIN FREEZERS, ICE MILK CANS, MIXERS,
: A Xji J 53 XV3C O2ST JS Q TJ 3E3 E 3 2S 3ES JE*. S, &c., <BtO.
Bros. Sz ZRi.g'g', 3Z_.tcsL_,
512 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
& c.
-
Howard's C olonist M iii row IMg
Howard'* SiuglfFnrrow IMgging
Tlxe Piouglx of the Times!
PLOUGHING AND HARROWING IN ON K AGT.
Share Points only cost 6d., and are Beversible.
C11a!'T-C u TJ’K us , Hok.si; Gears uml every kind of- AGkktlti kau Jjii’lemkNts
iist stock:. »
Enquirers please quote this paper.
280i PITT STREET, SYDNEY
(OoitNKit of Pitt and Bathurst Streets).
. S
mm
: w
m
m
Vi
W/M
m
phi 1
m
-THE-
LONDON* SYDNEY
TEA.
COMPANY,
409— KENT STREET—4O9
(Two doors from Market Street),
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
—IMPORT—.
HIG- U-G LASS IFDIAIT & CHIKA
TEAS
Packed in 201 b. and 4ftlb. Packages, and delivered at Is. 6d., Is. 9d. and 2s. per lb.
(Carriage Free) to any Railway Station or Port in New South )VaK*.
A Single Package at Wholesale Price. Correspondence invited and promptly attende4 to.
The Bulletin
Vo\. 11—No. 531.]
[Saturday, April 19, 1890.


TOBACCO
'■j3
P
si|
•r!► r *_f. *JL U ua «■
mV a SI
mi
j rs K‘ *7lTi£H 1
L-XJ
QIXSQPSON
Customs Returns.
ik in ericaii Lea f.
o—-
Dix-sou rnd Sons consumed in 1888, 52,592ib5.
more, and in 1 “-89 (over 44 tons) 98,939 lbs. more
A’rorican Leaf than all the rest of New South
Wales put toget er.
DIXSON’S TOBACCOS having the largest
wile of any in Aust/alia are
o
33
'Jt.
o
V
yo o\
SIR
ROGER
Dr. RIDGE’S
FOOD
FOE INFANTS AND INVALIDS
Ha« an enormpu- sale in liiigiand
am! is non heing int rod need into the
Colonies.
Every Storekeeper should j»e< a supply
as every AVIs ■> mother ivill eertninly
use it,
DR RIDGE S ROYAL FOOD MILLS
LOUDON, ENGLAND.
IMPS
j mm
XADieS
c HILOREfi3
SKSSS
tflUMKSj*^* o
am***-it
boston
BROWN’S
SATIN
POLISH
-FOB-
LADIES’ AND CHILDREN'S
BOOTS AND SHOES.
Aimnlal hiyhcst honors at
Phiin., 1876 Melbourne, 1880
liorlin, 1877 Krankfort-, 1881
Pam, 1878 Ainsterd'm 1883
Kew Orlc-aits, 1884-85,- and wbei-ever
<. xiiibilcd.
/‘•iris nuclei on ( very bottle.
Beware or Imitations.
This Blacking' is in liquid form and is applied to shoes
or other ••'.it iolcs of leather hy means of a sponge, attached
to (he cork hy a wire, so that- the blacking can he used by
at .tone without soiling the fingers. No polishing brush
is required. It dries immediately after being applied, and
will nor soil the most delicate clothing.
Sold largely in Australia through Commission Merchants
:;d l*ca!ers.
B F. BROWN & CO.,
lioston, U.S.A., M’f’gs.
THE BALLARAT COFFEE PALACE,
Lydia ru Street, Ballarat.
ATT ISITORS to the Golden City will find every
T convenience at the above Establishment.
The Only Coffee Palace in Ballarat.
M()DERATE CHARGES.
REID & SONS Proprietors.
r ATKINSON’S
ENGLISH PERFUMERY
surpasses all others for Its natural
fragrance.
Atkinson’s Celebrated
EAU DE COLOGNE
Is Unequalled for its Strength and
Delightful Fragrance. It far sur-
passes the numerous compounds sold
under the same name.
Of all Dealers and of the Manufacturers—
J. & E. ATKINSON,
24, OLD BOND STREET, LONDON.
s Trade Mark- -“White Rose’* on “Golden a
Lyre,” with Address in full.
T LAWLESS, Junk.,
37 MARKET STREET,
SYDNEY,
C S lA. F F K V B RQS, LIP
-'--v ■' . IRR/n>k£>) ~ &,
<\'
\l/_
./(V.
1)1 •
0
/ Q Tsl \
FFIC E S c *
Mildupa i 1 a Victoria.
Mtlbouß'Jf: Ckaffhy Irrigatlo:. Offices, Swanstcn Street.
R EN M AR K i South Australia,.
<i v
trneii«» 1 5?
Adela I DE Cavendish Chambers, Grenfell Street,
ENGLAND ■ J. E Mathew I' IN cent. (Chief Commissioner}
Cm: ivj// SuHrhng s, 35 Queen Victoria St.
LONDON EC.
PRT N C E O F W LE 8 II OTE L.
St. Kiiaa, Victoria.
Within Five Minutes from STATION, and One Minute from ESPLANADE and BATHS.
MRS. KONG Mi;\C; ... ... ... Proprietress.
WILLIAMS*
AUSTRALIAN YEAST POWDER
iS THIS ONLY PERFECT SUBSTITUTE FOR YEAST. “CU
Bread, Tea Calces, Pastry, £zg. 9
AUK
Light, Wholesome and Digestible
. WHEN' Al.vni: WITH
Williams’ /Australian ITeast Powder.
YOR THE TOWN, THE BUSH, AND THE SEA.
Beware of Worthless Imitations. Sold in Tins at 6d. the Half-Pound
CLARENDON HOTEL, MANLY,
The Brighton of New South Wales.
AT the CLARENDON HOTEL, Banquets, Suppers, Private Dinners, Evening Parties, etc., are
served on the Shortest Notice in the Large Dining Hall. Besides having a most recherche
Dinner von can enjoy from the balconies the magnificent view of the sea and surrounding country;
here also you can have good company, good wines—in fact, everything that can possibly irake one
comfortable can be found at this really first-class hotel. Fishing and Picnic Parties provided. 2able
dr Hole at One o’clock daily and Sundays. No expense is spared by Mrs. Ktlminster to make her
\ isitors comfortable and her Hotel the best in the colony.
Mrs. KIXjMIKTSTER., Clarendon Hotel,
Opposite OCEAN BEACH, MANT.Y.
Ji] DWIN G GOEETZ,
Stock and Share Broker,
A.G-E2STT,
BRISBANE.
Member of the Brisbane Stock Exchange.
68 Hunter Street, and 8 Bligh Street,
SYDNEY.
IP. SHEOEDEE
LIVERY, BAIT, LET-OUT AND ..COMMIS-
SION STABLES.
Horses and Vehicles of every description for
Sale or Hire; also, good reliable Ladies or Gentle-
men’s Hacks.
THE
Wolseley Sheep 'Shearing* machine.
PASTORALISTS are notified that, to avoid disappointment,
no time should be lost in Booking Orders for next Season.
Agents ; J. H. CrEDDES & C 0.,
19 PHILLIP STREET, SYDNEY.
LEA & PERRINS]
■ SAUCE,*
Purchasers should see that the Label on every bottle of the original
WORCESTERSHIRE SAUCE
bears the Signature, thus :
Ask for Lea h Perkins’ Sauce, and sec Name on Wrapper, Label. "Bottle and Stopper
Wholesale and for Kejoort hu the Proprietors , Worcester ' Crosse S' lilaektvell, London,
and by Grocers and Oilmen throughout the World.
Os
Everyone should Read
€5
“HISTORY of BOTANY BAY,
By ARTHUR GAYLL,
Profusely Illustrated by "The Bulletin's" well-known Artists, L. Hopkins and Phil May.
Price -
Agents—'Victorian : A.
ONE SHILLING; per Post, Is. 3d.
May be had from Agents, or direct from “The Bulletin” Office.
Benjamin, 321 Little Collins Street East, Melbourne; Tasmanian: JPitfcgera Id Brothers, George Street,
Launceston ; Queensland: •!. H. Thompson, George Street, Brisbane.


BEALE <Sc CO.’S
NEW WAREHOUSE.!
AND CHIEF OFFICES,
m
i
i
48G* 484* & 486 Georgs Street*
SYiDirsriEY.
REVOLUTIONISING
the piakto trade.
Messrs. Beale & Co.’s Great Enterprise.
rpHERE can be no questioning the fact that the Piano
Trade of these Colonies has undergone a complete
revolution during the last five years ; and to that desirable
change certainly no firm has contributed more than
Messrs. Beale and C( mp uiy. During the time high prices
continued the trade was held by a few, and hundreds of
homes now rendered attractive by the glorious influence
of music scarce could dream of becoming the ultimate
owners of the instrument which has done so much to
cheer and to refine our modern domestic life.
When Beale and Company commenced business they
had quietly gauged this condition of affairs in Australia,
and they began operations on a plan which could alone
work out successively in a mammoth undertaking such as
they proposed. With the Australian selling branch of
their enterprise they resolved to combine the manufacture
of Pianos in Germany—the centre of the world’s trade for
that instrument. But the experts sent out here for the
purpose of fully determining what was best fitted for
colonial requirements reported that it was essential to
have a special make of piano to suit our climate - an in-
strument as different as those made for Europe as Aus-
tralia is different from the Old World. The result of this
was the production of the staunchest pianoforte of
modem times- the iron-framed “ Hapsburg.” The in-
strument is regarded by the most capable experts of
Europe as the Production of the Age, combining as
it does every feature of the highest class instrument with
the maximum of strength and durability, and it was placed
on the market at prices much under what other firms arid
manufacturers had previously demanded. Although it
took almost endless trouble and long, patient labour to
produce the design of the “ Inimitable Hapsburg,”yet once
produced the demand giew so rapidly, and has become so
great, that the enterprising originators are able to out-
distance all competitors for both quality and price. The
peculiar construction of the iron frame, the excellence
of the wires, and the unique movements have, with all
other factors, contributed to this splendid success. No
other instrument possesses to the same detrree such rich
full, clear, bell-like tones, so noticeable m the “Haps-
burg,” especially in the higher grades, while strength,
solidity, and imperviousness to climatic influences have
been so well looked to that whether on t.ie coldest, o eak-
est spots of New Zealand or our own Monaro Plains, or ui
the hottest of our Western and Northern areas, this
wonderful pianoforte not only maintains, but improves its
tone and consequent value even after years of use. And
it must continue so. The genius and experience of the
mechanical world in this branch of art are embodied in
this one instrument the inimitable “ Hapsburg and
the sales to-day give ample evidence of the repute in which
it is held. Beale & Company have placed the
“Hapsburg” with thousands of families in Australia.
Homes in the far-distant back blocks, and homes in the
city, are not only enlivened but are made purer and better
through the influence of its music. The firm resolved to
do a large trade by selling these superior instru-
ments at prices and on terms demanded for the
lower grades, and success has crowned their efforts.
They do by far the largest business, and hold the
largest stocks in the colonies. They give their best
efforts to suit the circumstances and requirements of
every customer, and they supply for cash or on an easy
system of Time-payment which they have made peculiarly
their own. The correspondence department is of itself a
huge undertaking ; every mail brings its burden of letters.
From the great landowner, from the rich squatter, and
the astute merchant they come. And they came too
from clergymen, from doctors and solicitors, from civil
servants, and from the struggling selector, the tradesman,
the workingman ; for fathers and mothers of every grade
and class now recognise the influence which music exerts
for good in the life of the home. And every writer re-
ceives courteous attention and immediate response.
Hapsburg Double Iron-framed Pianos
Possess the following Advantages —
-Ist.—The wires are of a very high quality and in-
tensely sensitive ; their vibrations, reverberated
by a sounding board of special construction, are
clear and bell-like, instead of the muffled, tin-
kettly, or metallic sounds so common in cheap
Pianos.
2nd. —Being double oblique the strings are of a
greater length and fuller tone than in the old
straight-strung Pianos.
3rd. - The action is perfect check repeater, and is
made of pencil cedar, an expensive material,
and best for resisting climatic changes.
4th. —All the Hapsburg Pianos are Trichord.
f)th.— They are all seven Octaves.
Bth. —They have consolidated Iron Frames of
great strength, thus resisting the rapid muta-
tions of a tropical climate, whereby tuning is
only required at long intervals.
7th.—They oppose obstacles to the inroads of cock-
roache-, silver-fish, mice, &c. They have wire
gauze backs which cannot be eaten by vermin,
ami other unique improvements devised for
similrar ends.
Bth.—The Felts are Clinched on the Hammers,
instead of being fastened only by glue, as is the
case with nearly every Piano except the Haps-
burg.
9th.—They have brass or nickel-faced Wrest-
planks, instead of the old-fashioned perishable
style.
10th.—Rust is guarded against, wherever possible,
by the substitution of bronze for other metals.
11th.—The outer cases are handsome in design,
and of durable beauti ul woods; they can be
had in walnut, or in walnut and gold, or in
ebony and gold.
12th.—No matter in what part of the colony you
live, we will supply you with a Hapsburg Piano
upon easy terms of payment. No charge will be
made for packing or for packing cases.
Hapsburg Pianos. Haydn Organs.
Photographs and Price-lists by post or from our
own travellers everywhere.
Business Announcements.
WILLIAM FLEMING,
MERCHANT and IMPORTER,
22 & 24 Clarence Street
(Corner Margaret St.),
SYDNEY.
2, St. James’ Buildings
(WILLIAM STREET),
MELBOURNE.
Fleming’s
RELIABLE
Buggies
-
High-Class Buggies, Phaetons,
Wag-g-ons and. Harness.
fg
Farm Waggons,
Express Waggons.
CARTS
For One and Two Passengers.
f CCOTTI s H
o
V
llUlllEl
fs
*>>
X
V
■rr—ti
>
mimiin*
•*lllllllll
•HliimiH
piimnlw
£
X,
a
r<
mm
y
V
6n
CLARENCE S*
SYDNEY.
AGENTS
in New South Wales.
TRIUMPH
of The Qood .Spirit, over Bad.
You have
Nervous Debility
Sick Headache,
Bilious Compl’iits
Fever & Ague,
Wasting cf Flesh
Sleepless Nignts
Neuralgia,
Or any disease of the
Liter, Bowels or Kidneys, Lack ot
Strength or Nerve Power,
you can be Relieved and Cured by
LABMEB’S
CELEBRATED
TONIC.
Price, 2s 6d & ss; Post, Is extra.
Prepared only by—
C-A-iisrs & co.,
Chemists,
78 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
For Bale by all Chemists.
M. W. A Co.
CARLSBAD
NATURAL MINERAL WATERS
are now imported In bottles and used In treat-
ment of CHRONIC GASTRIC CATARRH, HYPER-
EMIA of the LIVER. GALL STONES, CHRONIC
CONSTIPATION, DIABETES, RENAL CALCULI,
GOUT, and diseases of the spleen arising from
residence in the tropics or malarious districts.
THE NATURAL
CARLSBJO SPHUjEL-SALT
In small and frequent doses is an efficient
DIU RETlC.but as an APERIENT it should be taken
BEFORE BREAKFAST, in doses of from 1 to 2 tea-
spoonfuis. dissolved In water. To increase the
APERIENT action of the Carlsbad Mineral Water,
a teaspounful of the Salt, previously dissolved
in water should be added.
SOLE CONSIGNEES/or the U.K. and the Colonies
INGRAM A ROYLE, 82, Farringdon St., London,
And oj all Chemist* throughout the World.
The Natural Mineral Waters of
(STATE
pißm
fg
GRANUh-tiRILLE. —For Affections of the
Liver, Biliary Organs, &c.
CELESTINS. —For the Kidneys, Gravel, Gout
Rheumatism, Diabetes, &c.
HOPITAL. —For Stomach Complaints.
HAUTERIYE. —An excellent Table Wat**,
OF ALL CHEMIST* IN AUSTRALASIA.
Business Announcements.
MASON BROTHERS,
fg
LIMITED.
263 to 269 KENT STREET,
SYDNEY,
Have always in Stock tor Salk to the
Trade arid Wholesale Buyers Only,
Ironmongery, ami
GENERAL HARDWARE
Glass, China ami
EARTHENWARE
WINES, BEERS & SPIRITS,
AND GENERAL
BULK MERCHANDISE.
Agents for
JOHN WALKER and SOHS
Old Highland Whisky.
LUCIEN FOUCAULD & CO.’S
Old Brandies.
J. T. GAYEN’S,
Schnapps and Geneva.
A. MELVIN and SONS*
Edinburgh Pale Ale.
HENRY GEORGE.
Send to
HEIWM.Y ICIKTG-,
SCENIC AND PORTRAIT PHOTOGRAPHER,
316 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
Life-like Cabinet Portrait of the Apostle ol
SINGLE-TAX —Henry George.
DR. SPEER’S
AMERICAN DISPENSARY
3 X IT ork Street.
P.O. Box 920.
Dr. Speer is a regular Graduated Physician, educated at
Harvard College, U.S. (for confirmation see New Zealand
Gazette, January 21st, 1886; also New South Wales
Gazette, April 17th, 1888). The doctor has devoted 14
years to the study of CHRONIC, NERVOUS, AND
SPECIAL DISEASES. Four of these were in the leading
hospitals of the United States, which enables him to treat
all complaints with excellent results. All applying to
him will receive his honest opinion of their complaints.
No experimenting ;no Mercury used. He will guarantee
a positive cure in every case he undertakes, or forfeit
£2OO. His reason for doing so is this—when there is no
organic disease, and nothing but an inorganic trouble, or,
in other words, a conglomeration of symptoms producing
a certain result, there is no reason why it cannot be re-
moved with the proper remedies, therefore he guarantees.
He wishes it distinctly understood that he does net claim
to perform impossibilities, or to have miraculous power
he claims only to be a skilled and successful physician
thoroughly informed in his speciality—CHßONlC anb
SPECIAL DISEASES of MEN and WOMEN. People
residing at a distance can, by explaining their troubles in
detail be treated at home. The course of treatment will
not in any way interfere with their business. Examina-
tion and advice free to all. Charges moderate. H. J.
fei’BEß, M D., 31 York-street, Sydney. Post Office Box,
No. 920. Office hours, 10 a.m. 012 a.m. 2to 4 and 7
to 8 p.m. Sundays from 10 to 11 a.m. only.
FOR—
Price (post paid), 2/5.
Medical.
TO YOU3VTG IS/T. lE3IST.
DR. FLETCHER’S
TREATISE ON NERVOUS DISEASES, THEIR CAUSE,
SYMPTOMS, TREATMENT, AND CURE.
directions contained in this little treatise will be
found of immense benefit to the sufferer; and if these
directions are observed during the early staires of Nervous
or Sexual Debility, No Medicine* will he required, as, by
observing the directions given, ihe patient can Cure him-
self.
This admirable little treatise is specially written to
show a method of counteracting the evil effects of indis-
cretions in early fife—overwork, irregularity in eating or
drinking, &c. It is the result of much study and long
and successful experience in the treatment of diseases,
and contains a fund of useful information to every suf-
ferer from the following complaints, ri*.: —Nervous
Debility, Dizziness, Specks before the Ryes, Pains in the
Back. Defective Memory, loss of Will Power, Loss of
Energy, Spermatorrhoea, Raahfulness, Discontentedness,
Constipation, Liver and Kidney Derangements, Atrophy,
Impotence, Impure Blood, Foul Taste in Mouth, Palpita-
tion of Heart. Wakefulness, Despondency, Excessive Ner-
vousness, Inability to Marry, Premature Decay, and other
symptoms experienced by nervous sufferers.
All Should Send for this Little Treatise.
1? the complaint is of long standing and require*
medicine, Dr. Fletcher will GUARANTEE TO CURE
ANY CASE OF NERVOUS or SEXUAL DEBILITY
with ONE COURSE OF MEDICINES LASTING FIVE
WEEKS, and will send with medicines A WRITTEN
GUARANTEE to cure same or return the monies paid.
Dr. Fletcher’s treatment is l>oih simple and effective,
and within the reach of the poorest. It is unlike any
other, and with it he has cured over 25,000 patients, and
invites patients to iuvesli'iate hie statements by verifying
the testimonials published in his treatise. The treatise
will lie forwarded on receipt ef two stamps to cover
postage.
CONSULTATION BY LETTER, FREE
Address in first instance—
DR. H. EWART FLETCHER,
Box 1417, 0.P.0.
Sydney, N.S.W.
Private address—Clonmel House, Waverley, Sydney.
Remember, all cases undertaken, guaranteed, and a
signed agreement given, which provides that NO COST
be incurred by Ihe patient if a cure is not effected.
VARICOCELE RADICALLY CURED WITHOUT
OPERATION.
Mention this Paper.
IST - IN THE PRESS,
G-OLDEU SHAITTY,”
By “BULLETIN” WRITERS.


A pleasantly-situated Property, thoroughly cleared, close to Liverpool Station. Torrens Title. £1 deposit, 10s. pel month.
W. STEPHEIT, 28 CASTLEBEAG-H STBEET, SinDZEsTBIT.
“ Golden Shanty.” E3T A Selection from the brightest of the original literary matter which has made The Bulletin world-famous. Price, Is. : posted, 3d. oxtia.
Public Companies.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA.
THE COMING COLONY!
Everyone should Invest a Few Pounds in Land
in
PERTH,
The CAPITAL CITY OF WESTERN AUSTRALIA.
Compared with other Australian Cities the Price
is Very Low.
The Coal, Gold and Tin Mines are attracting
much enterprise and capital to the Colony.
CITY BUILDING _ ALLOTMENTS,
From £1 per Foot.
BUILDING SITES adjoining the CITY
From £lO Each.
Small Deposit. Easy Terms. Discount for Cash.
Each Lot guaranteed good Building Land.
Land in Perth will increase greatly in value during
the next few years.
INQUIRY COSTS NOTHING.
Pamphlets, Marked Plans, and full information
posted to any address on application to
lb Intercolonial Investment Co, Limits!
96 Bathurst Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
W. J. DOUGLAS, Manager.
The Australian Mercantile Loan and
Guarantee Co. (Limited).
Head Office :
Corner of Market and York Streets, SYDNEY.
Melbourne—2B3 Collins-street East.
Brisbane —Corner Edward and Elizabeth Streets.
Newcastle—27 Hunter-street.
Directorate:
FRANK J. SMITH, Esq., M.L.A., Managing Director,
J. P. HOWE, Esq., M.L.A
E. H. BUCHANAN, Esq.
G. J. FINLAYSON, Esq.
JAMES MILLER, Esq.
The Company grant immediate advances upon
Deeds of Land, Bills of Lading, Merchandise,
Storage, and Bond Certificates, and all classes of
mercantile and other approved securities, for fixed
terms or repayable by instalments.
Interest Allowed on Deposits:
3 months ... 6 per cent.
fi »> 7 »,
12 .. 8
A. MILLER
General Manager.
THE
Australian Banking Company,
LIMITED.
PITT and MARKET STREETS, SYDNEY,
Incorporated under the Companies Act , 187 U.
Authorised Capital, £500,000, in 100,000 Shares of £5 each.
Subscribed Capital, £75,000.
FRANCIS ABIGAIL, M.L.A.,
Chairman of the Board of Directors.
A Branch of the Bank has been opened at Goulhurn
under the management of C. H. Atkinson, Esq. (lately
Branch Manager of the Bank of New South Wales) for the
transaction of General Banking Business.
The Bank has paid its Shareholders a dividend of 10 per
cent, every half-year since its formation.
The Bank transacts all usual banking business in every
Pa SpeciaTadvantages granted to Commercial Clients.
Overdrafts granted against deposit of Deeds.
THE HIGHEST RATES OF INTEREST GIVEN FOR
FIXED DEPOSITS.
The Share Register is now open for the allotment of
Shares—New Issue.
By order of the Board of Directors.
RODERICK M'NAMARA, Manager.
Forms of application for Shares may be obtained at the
Bank.
lITY MUTUAL FIRE INSURANCE
r COMPANY, Limited.
Established 1877.
Capital
£500,000.
Head Office:
25 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY.
A Cash Bonus of 10 per cent, is paid to Policyholders
on renewals every year. Insurances covering Loss by Fire,
Lightning or Gas Explosion at Lowest Rates.
The DIVIDEND of 8 PER CENT, to 31st December,
1889 is now being paid, and the BONUS ot 10 PER
CENT, to Policyholders will, as usual, be paid on re-
newal of their policies.
Money to Lend on Approved Security.
U Yi. The Bonus paid is equal to that paid by any
fire Company in Sydney.
ROBERT KERR, Manager.
Sydney Canister Works,
COLLINS STREET, SURRY HILLS,
OFF CROWN STREET.
Manufacturers of allkinds of Tinsfor Confectioners.
Tea Merchants, Biscuit Makers, &c., also all kinds
of Tins, round and square, for Pepper, Spice and
Baking Powder, made by improved machinery.
_A_ Trial Solicited.
Business Announcements.
ANDREW KING & CO..
Wholesale Soft Goods Importers and Warehousemen*
FLINDERS STREET, MELBOURNE,
Opposite Hobson’s Bay Railway Station.
fT'HIS old-established house was opened to the Public last Monday as the “MODERN
FAMILY WAREHOUSE,” when the rooms were rushed and the doors had to be
closed.
The Press and the Public have pronounced the Opening Day the Greatest Success
ever achieved in Victoria.
The Goods required no pushing, so Customers were not annoyed by salesmen.
Plain Figures and Good Value at once convinced Purchasers of the advantages to
be gained by buying from a Wholesale House ; and now ANDREW KING & CO. take
position of
Premier Drapers in Victoria.
Parcels delivered at Railway Station on opposite side of street, so that you can do
your shopping in shorter time and with more satisfaction by calling at the ‘ MODERN
FAMILY WAREHOUSE ” as you come into town than by going elsewhere.
Note.—’The present Stock is being Sold very much under Wholesale Cost, ano
Householders should not neglect this rare opportunity of replenishing their stocks.
Lengths and Quantities to suit all. No Second Prices.
Terms Strictly Caßb..
Country Orders promptly attended to, and Squatters’ Parcds made and sent hy return.
■Note Address:
“The Modern Family Warehouse,
<
OPPOSITE HOBSON’S BAY STATION.
The LONDON & SYDNEY TEA COMPANY,
IMPORTERS OF HIGH-CLASS TEAS,
4:09 KSNT STREET, SYDNEY.
Packed in 12, 20, and 40lb Caddies
@ Is. 6d., Is. 9d., and 2s. per lb.
K'.V;
M
ss?.
h
/ /
i^WWW'
/ 1 ''
•*N
Ml
'-T-rrTTTTn
Delivered free to any Railway Station
or Port in New South Wales.
“ No. John ;no more Tea from you. I buy now from the London and Sydney Tea Company.”
—THE—
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL
FIRE
Insurance Society.
Established ISIV-
Bonuses
OF
20 per cent. Paid Annually
since 1873.
-'V
Head Office
—THE
Oldest Mutual Fire Office
in Australia.
Claims promptly and liberally
settled. Fifteen days’ grace
allowed for Renewal of Policies.
Lowest Current Rates charged.
lion. George Thornton, M.L.C.,
Chairman.
Head Office;
Corner Pitt Si King Streets,
SYDNEY.
Walter Church ... Manager.
Business Announcements.
BAY LE
AUCTIONEERS * ESTATE AGENTS
BATI.EE & c 0.,
General Accttonbees anb Estate Agents,
325 t'oHlns Street, Melbourne, aucl 14 Chapel
Street, South Yarra.
LLAS
UMS
RE-COVE R£fc
wTUDY ECONOMY
and
Have your Umbrella Frames
Re-Covered, and your
Parasols Re-Lined and made
Equal to New, at
J. SULLIVAN’S,
541 George Street,
Brickfield Hill, Sydney,
between
Liverpool <t: Bathurst Sts ,
Parasols made to match Cos
tumes. Repairs neatly done.
GROTH
APERHANGINGS.
Oils,Colours* p A | N ts
yall papers fao/vi&roll
p/U
29 George BathurstSt.
-— -Bfuckf/eld H/Ll .
PULVERMACHER'S WORLD-
FAMED GALVANIC BELTS
FOR THE CURE OF
Nervous Exhaustion and Debility, Sciatica,
Lumbago, Rheumatism, &c.,
HAVE received Testimonials from Three
Physicians to Tier Majesty the Queen and
the Leading Physicians of many London Hospi-
tals, including over Forty Members of the Royal
College of Physicians of London.
For full Price-list and particulars, see new'pam-
phlet “Galvanism : Nature’s Chief Restorer of
Impaired Vital Energy.” Pamphlets FrkE.
Sole Agents for N.S.W.,
FROST <Sc SHIPHAM
ELECTRICIANS,
474 & 587 George Street, Sydney.
Sole Agents for Victoria;
ALLISON BROS., 477 Coi.uns-street West, Melbourne.
D. C. Xj..
V K H Y = OLD = SPECIAL
HOOTCH = WHISKY.
DISTILLERIES CO. (Limited),
THOMAS M CHEERY:
MEDICAL HERBALIST,
83 Oxford Street, 4 doors above Riley Street.
Private Diseases of Both Sexes a Special it;/-
Consultations Gratis. Charges very Moderate.
A Trial Solicited.
A SPEEDY CURE GUARANTEED.
CITY & COUNTY
Investment, Land, and Building
Company, Limited.
Authorised Capital, £lOO,OOO ... Reserves and Uncalled Capital, £37,000.
Rates for Deposits : 12 months, 7 per cent.; 6 months, 6J per cent.; at call, 5 per cent.
Bonus to 12 months’Depositors.
Directors: J. Garrard, M.P., Hon. J. H. Young, M.P., J. P. Walker, J.p., John C. Hamilton.
J. D. Ward, Manager, 327 Pitt-street, Sydney.
BANK.
327 PITT STBTSET


The Bulletin
Vol. IX No, 531.
SATU KDAY, APRIL 19, 1890.
Price, 6cl.
ST. PHILIP'S BELLS.
The members of the Victorian Society of Bellringers
now in Sydney on a ringing tour, and who, as report'd,
recently a compliahed the task of ringing " Holt’s
celebrated ten-part pea! of Orandsire Triples ” ftt St.
'Philip’s Church in three hours tifiaen minutes, also re-
corded two peals of “ Grandsiro Minor ”at St. Mark’s,
Darling point one conducied’by Mr. Harry Adams,
and tbeotherby Mr. Jno. Beeohoy on Tuesday last, Uu
Thursday the team and their friends were entertained
by the St. Philip’s Society,
Mr. Mor on gave the fo*at of “ The l.end wo live in,"
and eulogised the freedom and liberty we enjoyed under
its laws. Speaking of bells, he said that “ scientific
change ringing ” was not a source of pleasure to nil,
but he was sure its ooponents were in a minority, and
that all who had the good of their adopted land
at heart would even put up with u little
inconvenience to hoar those chin es rung, re-
calling to many times and scenes of long ago.'
Mr, Whitton proposed “ Success to Bellringing,” and
hoped further successes would follow the one recently
achieved. Mr. W. Albinson, in responding, expressed
a hope that Sydney ring- rs would pui forth ai) iheir
energies, and that the m xi peal might ha rung by New
South Waies_ m-n. Mr. H. Adams then, in feeling
terms, gave "The health of St. Philip’s society.”
coupled with the name of their conductor, Mr, John
Dennis, and said that ibis visit wopld be over remem-
bered by himself and brother ringers, not only as a red-
letter day in the annals of colonial iluging, but lor tbo
hearty wefl-ome that had been extenoed 10 them, aud
the generous manner in which they had been enter-
tain d. Mr Dennis having responded on behalf el St.
Philip’s, si d in reference to p -al-riuginghe was somo-
wcat doubtful as to whether they would bo able to
follow in the footsteps of the return success achieved
by tbe visiting team, for they were heavih handicapped
by being situated in a neighbourhood of private
dwellings, and this caused numerous applications to
have Ibe bells silenced. ■*, e.
i*
7>osmiryj 3 i/iUEP-MTE. '39°
doteri/y Junior- (fraa’Par iJ/iut istkut
O/d paster/Jj/ - n ftatAry ateur, Idas Catted
& -detl; tecdas used t// our/ace/aCders
yr dro# Car u/dy ct/cT^e^/duat
fZ ac * & Jg“" r ?
. tfyaf ts /a/fdd feeder cou/d as cer/d/a-
-gj
W?ftfc//rS" ,
::7%f e/zd 0/ Mat Aza/z /S
Aud
THE SACRED COW-REDE.
Dedicated to the clergy— and to the Victorian Bellringers now in Sydney.


The Bulletin
Bib National Australian Newspaper.
“ Australia for the Australians.”
Proprietors: BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO.,
Limited.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 24 Pitt-street, Sydney, New South W ales.
TERMS TO SUBSCUJEERS
(payable iu advance, only).
Per Annum LI 0 0
Half-yearly ®
Quarterly
Cheques, Drafts , etc., and all easiness Communications
to he addressed to William Macleod, Managing Director.
Literary Communications to be addressed to J. F.
Archibald.
The Editor will carefully read and ncknou-ledge in the
“ Correspondence” column all contributions submitted
whether in the form of Political, Social, or other A rticles,
Verse, Short Tales or Sketches (those, dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in
length, or say 3000 -words, are specially acceptable).
Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspapcr-Clippings. All
communications will be regarded as strictly confidential.
“ The Bulletin" will return all unavailable MSS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we
desire those sending MSS. to distinctly understand that
we are not responsible for tire preservation or transmission
of such MSS.
NOTICE.
By sending direct to The Bclle-tin Office Twenty Shillings
sterling-—which you may 'poo by Post Office Order, One
Pound Note, or Stamps of any A ustralian colony—you
can have The Bulletin posted regularly to you every week
for a year.
This offer is not open to residents of Sydney. In that
city The Bulletin is not delivered by mail, but is entirely
in the hands of our carriers, with whom we do not wish
to interfere.
SATURDAY, APRIL lit, 1890.
Testamentary Law.
Age and poverty, pressing with equal weight
upon a father's head, often darken his last
days. His sons need a push forward in the
world, his daughters are out of the race for
ease and comfort, and the cheeriest prospect
before the eyes of his wife is to be a burden
on one or other of her struggling children.
These visions rise, trailing mists behind
them, and he cannot help bewailing from
time to time the hardship of being poor.
Beyond all question the condition is one
of hardship. That, however, is not the
only class of old men confronted with
hard conditions. The fathers on whose
heads age and wealth press with equal hands
are sometimes as much and often more to be
pitied. The former have a moral guarantee
against suspicions of insincerity in the affec-
tion displayed towards them. Around the
latter worldly knowledge often throws a
lurid light in which are beheld sons plotting
for favourable mention in will or codicil,
daughters scheming for front places in the
chariot of fashion, wives plying smiles and
caresses as tricks of trade, and nieces and
nephews and nondescript relatives ravening
to warp judgment, bias affection, fool fancy,
and guide to their separate advantages the
pen held in a dying hand.
# # *
Fathers without money arc badly off ;
fathers with money, and with testamentary
law as it is, are often driven into idiocy or
wheedled into crime. One and all of the
offspring and relatives of a rich man know
that the law has invested him with the
powers of a despot, of a tyrant, of an
autocrat. They know that if they inspire
the senile totterer with a sentiment in their
favour, a whim in their favour, a fancy in
their favour, and if while he is thus
possessed they can have their names inserted
in his will, sums of money, areas of land, or
streets of houses will be theirs. Hence, the
less worthy of them lay themselves out to
warp his judgment, his affections, to unfairly
excite his sympathies and criminally stimu-
late his prejudices. The dishonourable son
will labour to displant the honourable one,
the grasping daughter to displace the affec-
tionate one, and the avaricious wife to eject
them all. The stroke of an old man s pen is
all they want. Years have made him feeble
and testy and uncertain. His tremor of hand
but indicates his tremor of mind. The world
which he understands is going away, and the
new one which takes its place is strange and
ungenial. He no longer grasps hearts and
chains them to him by the strength of his
love for them, of his faith or hope in
them, as once he did. He no longer, as of
yore, assimilates, by natural appetite, ideas
that quicken the pulse and flush the brow.
Instead, he shivers in a windy place where
hearts beat slow and brains arc torpid. Yet
law stands by him. By it he still is tyrant,
despot, autocrat. By it he is still invested
with supreme command over the material
happiness of his kith and kin.
* * *
A case which has been for some time
past before one of the Australian Su-
preme Courts, sitting in ecclesiastical juris-
diction, is an ordinary illustration of the
working of this law. The testator in this
case was an octogenarian, who owned pro-
perty to the value of about a quarter of a
million sterling, and who, shortly before his
death, willed it away in such a manner that
the Court was asked to come to the succour
of some members of his family. Ihe story
of the trial is extremely like the stories told
in all such cases. In old age he solaced
himself with a young w ife, and the claim set
up for adjudication was that this wife and
her offspring w ere damaged in the estimation
and consequently in the fitness of the pro-
vision made for them in the old man s w ill
by the tattling, the gossip, the misrepresen-
tations and other prejudicial behaviour of
his children by a previous marriage and
of relatives and acquaintances generally.
He w'ss sworn by some to have been
sound in mind when he made his will ;
others swore that for years his head was
weak ; some swore that his knowledge of
business generally was good, and of his own
excellent, while others swore that his judg-
ment was frail and his memory unreliable.
On the question of personal character some
swore that he was uniformly sober, while
others testified that he was frequently drunk ;
some, that he w r as miserly and suspicious, and
others that he was frank and open-handed.
The character of his last wife, who happens
now to be also dead, fell, too, under bandying
phrases. He left her only a c .tuple of pounds
a Aveek, and even this was subject to the
condition that she should not marry again ;
and those w ho wanted the will to stand en-
deavoured to show that the testator had
fairly valued her, while those who wanted
it set aside stood to their guns on the
opposite rampart. The details may interest
the persons concerned, but the publicist
glances only at the heads and sees at once
that the case is but one of a host that have
been tried in the past, and of a host that
will keep coming on while testamentary law
is what it is.
m * *
It does not matter what the legal decision
is in any such case as that stated. The
host of similar cases will still troop on. It
is to their origin the reformer should look.
The first words he should write up for in-
quiry are —Why should the last will and
testament of any man be hedged in with the
sentimental sacredness with which that in-
strument is at present enclosed ? W ills
should be as all other documents, if terms
in them conflict with reason, with equity, a
judge and jury should have power to step
in, as in other contracts and agreements,
and eliminate what is unreasonable or in-
equitable. That a will is a man’s last-com-
piled document does not make it in any
sense more perfect than his other works. It
may be, and in point of fact is often, ad-
mittedly the most stupid or unjust achieve-
ment of his life. Men have willed that their
means be spent fantastically, irreligiously,
disloyally, inhumanly. <>n some of these
grounds law claims the right to interfere,
ft will wipe out provisions made to support
assaults on religion or on the throne; but the
great field of human justice and equity it leaves
untouched. The sacredness of the instru-
ment appals it. ears ago a wealthy man be-
queathed his thousands to Queen \ ktokia
and left his own daughters without subsistence.
The girls, who became governesses, have had
to toil for their living since. British law
passed the thousands to the Queen, and was,
as statute law, incompetent to do anything
else. The man was not proved mad and was
neither disloyal nor irreligious, and his will
was, therefore, a sacred best. .1 hat is only
one out of a myriad of similar cases. Now,
why should this sacredness attach to such in-
struments ! Why should not a court be
competent to test the validity of a will by
the sense of reasonableness and justice it re-
veals ? When a father leaves his wife and
children unprovided for and bequeaths his
property to strangers, or when he gives his
family a pinched subsistence and strangers
or strange objects are made his heirs, why
should not the court be competent to re-
adjust the distribution ?
■ o * *
If a man die intestate thei’c is a court to
act for him. In Australia, the plan adopted
by these courts is intelligible and intelligent.
Why not extend the field of operation of
these courts and allow an insulted and im-
poverished widow to plead, on grounds of
equity and marital duty, for better teims
than those her whimsical or badly-influenced
husband gave her in his will ! Why not
confer like rights on despoiled children ?
Why must widow and children be driven
practically to prove that their dead pro-
tector was insane before they can stir
a single term of his flagrantly unjust
sentence t As soon as courts come to
see that their duty extends thus far there will
be another question to answer. Why should
a husband be encouraged to think that he
can do what he likes with what he calls his
possessions I Has His wife contributed
nothing to these ? She may not have earned
money in the sense of wages or by a separate
industry, but has she not been a helper ? If
so, the husband's autocratic claim must, in
the sense of the plainest dealing, submit to
limitations. At marriage her property, tin-
less it has been specially settled away,
becomes his. Under the Code Napoleon
this, at death or separation, comes back to
her, but, under British or Australian law, it
abides with him and follows his will. He
vows, when marrying her, that “ with all his
worldly goods " he her endows, and the con-
tract is signed till death does them part.
But in half-an-hour after the ceremony he is
legally competent to make a will, the first
paragraph of which may give away to an
entire stranger all these worldly goods and
what she has brought to him; and if she
desire to oppose probate of such a will, she
must produce witnesses to prove the testator
insane or otherwise mentally incapacitated
at the time he made it. The burden of
proof is, we hold, put on the wrong shoulders
in such cases. The man in such cases
assumes a right which he does not in equity
or justice possess ; and the fact that tlie will
thus offends against the first principles of
what is fair, the first principles of marital
duty, should, without a prosecution by widow
or child, procure its cancellation and call for
a just distribution of the goods of the estate.
Australian Politicians and the Murray.
If any proof were required that the great majority
of politicians are mere Pharisees, it would be fur-
nished by a comparison of their words and deeds.
The scriptural Pharisee is not an historical person-
age only. He is the type of humbugs that run
through all generations, the men who “ say and do
not,” whose Pecksniffian effrontery carries them
well through a society that seldom has the moral
courage to uncloak a sham. By comparison with
modern Respectability one can find something in a
thorough-going and professed scoundrel to take
him out of the lowest depths of reprobation.
l- He hath out-villained villainy so lar that the
rarity redeems him,” was said of Shakespeare s
Maroei.es. One cannot make the same apolo-
getic statement of the average politician, for he is
of too mixed a character —a man who in private life
is often a very estimable gentleman, as the phrase
goes, fulfilling his domestic and neighbourly
duties and the rubric mummeries of his so-called
religion with the most ingenuous heart, while in
politics he is nothing but a blathering sham.
*• Whatsoever they bid you observe, that observe
and do ; but do not ye alter their works ; for they
say and do not.”
# # *
Let us bring our political leaders to the test of
a single great question, and the hollowness of
their pretensions will soon become apparent. The
Federal idea is now in the air, but one may look
through the records of recent legislation and ad-
ministration in vain for a broad trace of the
Federal spirit. Take, for instance, the question
of the riparian ownership and use of the Murray.
Is it not a sorry commentary upon the mutual
professions of goodwill that are made by the
Ministers of different provinces, on those festive
occasions when free champagne expands the
imagination, that, up to the present, local im-
pertinencies and jealousies art' a bar to a settlement
of riparian rights in the river? i he position is
this. The Murray flows through New South
Wales and South Australia, and by Victoria. We
say by Victoria, for by a stupid blunder of the
Imperial Parliament worthy of the worst of
its colonial traditions, the Southern boundary of
the .Murray is made the Northern boundary of
Victoria. The Act giving Victoria a constitution
dec ares that “ the whole water-course of the said
River Murrav, from its source therein (i.c. in the
Act 14 Vic.,’ cap. ;V.») described to the Eastern
boundary of the colony of South Australia-, is and
shall be within the territory of New South Wales.”
1 h t! usual rule is that riparian countries or owners
get half the bed of the stream, but by this Act
New South Wales gets the whole of it. Under
these circumstances, the New South Wales
Government, or rather Sir Henry Parkes, has
made two claims, one of which is imperti-
nent and the other blind in its arrogance.
New South Wales, thiough its grand old humbug,
claims the ownership of the whole of the Murray
waters passing through its territory, and also that
by virtue of it • property in the whole bed of the
river, Victoria is a trespasser, by fixing irrigation
works therein, and must consequently clear
out. Now we are, thank Providence, not a
lawyer, but have heard sufficient of law and its
ethics to know that the first contention of Sir
Henry Parkes will not stand examination. The
ownership of the water of a river, so far as it
can exist, is incident to the ownership of the
banks, not of the bed, as flowing water has always
been considered incapable of complete ownership,
but free to be used by the owners of the river-
banks with due regard to each other’s in-
terests. 'The declaration that Victoria is a
trespasser because she has fixed some of her
irrigation works in the bed of the river is
a piece of cheeky stupidity of which scarcely
any prominent politician in Australia, but
one, would be guilty. A right to anything is
generally held to involve a right to whatever is
necessary to render it effective. “ It is a prin-
ciple,” says Wheaton, “ that the right to a thing
gives a right to the means without which it could
not be used, that is to say that the means follow
the end. Thus a right to navigate a river draws
with it a right to moor vessels to its shores, to
land on them in cases of distress, or for other pur-
poses.” This principle, he says, is founded in
natural reason, and evidently the common-sense
of mankind.
# # #
This arrogant assertion of Premier Parkes mat
the Murray belongs to New South Wales, was but
an advance upon the spirit of the agreement made
by New South Wales and Victoria in 1880. It
simply divided the Upper Murray and its tribu-
taries, and the whole of the Lower Murray into
two equal parts, of which Victoria was to have a
right to one and New South Wales to the other.
South Australia was completely ignored, and
ordered to go fish for her rights in whatever
dribble might reach her after the wants of the
parties to the agreement had been supplied. The
agreement came to nothing, for the simple reason
that the concert of thieves seldom lasts long, and
Sir Henry Parkes soon renounced it by the de-
claration before referred to, that the whole of the
river belonged to New South Wales. It is not
our purpose to discuss the question of the respec-
tive rights of the riparian colonies in the river.
There is really no right in the matter, as, without
a power at their back to enforce them, rights are
practically non-existent. But there is such a thing
as natural ethics, or what is known between
nations as comity, and which determines the
righteousness of mutual claims made by par-
ties subject to no paramount power. And in
all justice the rights of all the provinces on its
banks to the Murray are equal and co-ordinate
I and are not properly expressed in terms of power.
Squabbles, similar in kind but of far greater mag-
nitude between nations, have been settled by
treaties ; and it is a damning reflection upon the
characters of colonial politic!; ns that, with all
their after-dinner 'twaddle ■ oout intercolonial
union and conceit, tney ai<s iioapable of coming
to any reasonable agreement as to their respective
rights on the Murray. Nations have quarrelled
over and over again about rights ofiiparnvn navi-
gation, but have eventually settled their rights
by a peaceful compact. They pitched technical
questions of rights to the winds', and squared
their differences on the lines of justice. Ihe case
is well put by Wheaton : “ The rights of the
United States to participate with Spam in the
navigation of the River Mississippi, was rested by
the American Government on the sentiment
written in deep characters in the heart of man,
that the ocean is free to all men, and its rivers to
all their inhabitants.” But the liberal reason of a
principle like, this is too much for those political
Pharisees who bawl inanities about Federation,
and in a single concrete instance fail to display
the spirit without which Federation is impossible.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
“A Hopeful Sign.”
Nothing indicates more clearly the attitude of
Common Sense towards the Churches, and the
poor opinion which men of the world hold regard-
ing the intelligence of Divine Ministries, than the
fact that a professor of religion cannot make a
rational utterance re creeds, dogmas, and old
Biblical beliefs without provoking a burst of
gratitude from the Press. If a parson of any
denomination uprears himself in his little rostrum
to express a mild doubt as to the probability of
Jonah passing into the belly of that good old
whale by way of a throat that couldn’t possibly
swallow a tittlebat, the bold shepherd is held up
to public admiration as a man of singularly bread
views. Should he go so far as to hint that Moses
drew upon his luxuriant imagination for an ex-
planation of the origin of species, and that 1 ather
Abraham is a relic of Phallic worship, he is praised
sky-high for his wisdom by those to whom he
has taught nothing that they didn’t know
already. In fact, a parson finds himself belauded
as a miracle of enlightenment directly he betrays
symptoms of being something better than a dry-
as-dust bigot. His generous critics forget that
although he may be in advance of the main body
of professional religionists, he still lags far in the
rear of lay leaders of thought. Ihe praise
bestowed upon his “liberal’' opinions is born of
the astomShment they provoke —astonishment
similar to that with which the world regards
Emperor William’s profe-sions of regard for the
working man, or General Mite's ability to squeak
thirty lines from “Hamlet. ’ Only on the assump-
tion that nothing sensible is expected of the Church
can we account for Australian journals publish-
ing columns of admiring comment upon an ad-
dress delivered some few weeks back by the
Moderator of the Presbyterian Assembly in
Sydney. The cleric in question, anxious to
celebrate his appointment to a high and heavy
position by letting off a brilliant idea, suggested
that the time has now arrived for effecting altera-
tions and repairs in a crazy old monument of
superstition known as the Westminster Confession
of Ka’th. He had been thinking the matter over,
had this radical of a Moderator, until he had
begun to feel “the necessity of formulating a
creed more suited to the present day. What a
wretched little sample of broad news! What a
pettifogging pecimen of religious progress ! Ihe
good man might as well have said that it was
time the Litany left off damning Guy Fawkes, or
consigning to everlasting brimstone all who can-
not make a mental transformation of one ghost
into three ghosts, and three ghosts back again into
one ghost. Yet one particular Melbourne paper
was quite excited by the pious moderation of the
Moderator, and arrived at the grand conclusion
that it was “a hopeful sign.” A verdict, by the
way, which reads uncommonly rough upon the
Christian Church, when read carefully.
+
The Padieal English papers are surprised at
Bkaijlai :gh’s utterances in the Eight Hours
debate. The Bulletin is not. With Bradlai gh,
Individualism almost to anarchy is so strong, that
coercive restriction of the hours of labour, even if
ostensibly for the benefit of the labourer, seems
no doubt to him «i move in the direction of
despotism rather than in that of liberty. His
other arguments, very shallow try the way, were
(1) In no country was an Eight Hours Hill enforced by
law; workmen would themselves rebel, “I am in tmoiu
of shortening their hours, but not of mining their in-
terests;” (2) it would destroy our commercial superiority ;
f.'i) it was not a legislative matter —it was outside the
sphere of State action ; (4) it was not an international
matter; why should we help other nations at our own
cost ?
Bradlaugh, to some extent, here turns his back
on himself, but nevertheless is still true to his pro-
nounced individualism. Of course ho carries it
too far. The coercion in favour of the worker is
necessary to balance the already existent coercion
of the master, and the commercial superiority he
prates of has an unstable foundation if it res s on
the miseries of the overworked. When he says
that labour questions are not international matters,
then we are inclined to imagine that his favourite
quotation from Thomas Paine must have been
forgotten: “The world is my country, mankind
are my brethren, and to do good is my religion.
«.
The failure of the London police to discover the
Whitechapel murderer is partly accounted for by
the insufficient strength of the force. In the
worst quarters of Whitechapel the constables me
once to patrol two together, but expenses were cut
down and the solitary policeman is discreet
enough to refrain from attempting to arrest
desperate characters. A returned Australian,
who has recently “done” England, stated at a
private dinner the other day that he had con-
versed lengthily with a constable stationed m tnc
location of the last outrage. The policemen sau -
“ Every day I sec men who might be tins *
the Ripper.’ Once we went two and two : now
the Police Department is being cut down m i
expenses, and we go alone. And under tiro.
circumstances why should I collar any man wio
might resist ? I’ve been 20 years mt he oi _
without any increase of pay, and if 1. m k'.uea, •-
there’s every chance I might be, my family get
nothing when I’m gone.” Good old economy •
*.
A lot of clack has been written about Saba
Bernhardt as a Shocking Example. Six y
ago, Archibald Forbes, in the columns ottn
South Australian Advertiser, described »aba
as a doomed drunkard who was fast break h
down, and the present writer had the pleasure 1
hearing Madame Bernhardt, very sober m
intensely excited, discourse for halt-an hour 11
the subject of Forres’ attack. If anyone ,
drag us to a Virgin Mary on the stage, "<


prefer Sara to Mrs. Kendal. As an English
paper points out, it is absolutely impossible for
Sara to be a dissipated woman, for with such a
fragile, not to say frail frame, she never could have
stood 20 years of desperate, hard, exhausting work
on the stage. She trains as carefully as a race-
horse, and the “immoral” fudge is mere advertise-
ment —for a perverse and stiffnecked generation
which always asks for an actress’s credentials,
“ Where are your scandals?” The women who
abuse Sara Bernhardt are those nervous victims
of the fashionable doctor, whose stronghold and
grand preserve of disease is in pious sensuality,
holy debauchery, and sanctified lubricity. Begin
your reforms at home.
+
Naturally, the Foreign-trade Press cackle
valiantly over the point revealed in the George-
Trenwith debate, that while in both provinces
the amount of savings-banks deposits are about
the same, the depositors in New South Wales
have individually, on the average, double the sum
to their credit to what is owned by the Victorian
depositors. It is, of course, asking too much at
the hands of Foreign-traders to draw the plain in-
ference from the simple fact that when the deposi-
tors in the Southern province double those in New
South Wales' the aggregate amount of their savings
being approximately equal, there must be a greater
distribution of money in the former colony, and a
more widely-extended thriftiness and prosperity.
As people can only save when they have some-
thing to save, the obvious deduction is that for
every unit of the artisan and labouring and small
shopkeeping class, always the chief patrons of the
savings-banks, who save money in New South
Wales, there are two in Victoria. And here,
again, doth another egg set under the Foreign-
trade Brahmapootra turn out a Protectionist
chicken.
The Victorian Constitution has got an anxious
eye on John Ryan, a prisoner who is doing his
level worst to escape three floggings of 20 lashes
each. Ryan’s first dose of mild corrective was
due a couple of mouths back, but when the warders
were conducting him to the scene of moral re-
generation he sprang over the corridor-railings,
and fell upon the cold flagstones below with a
sickening thud. On examination of his bleeding
ruins it transpired that Ryan had broken some
legs and several shoulders, besides having bent his
head in and bruised his liver. So with many
sighs of regret they removed him to the hospital,
while the baffled flogger said, “ Ain’t it sicken-
ing?” and went off to ruminate on the absurdity
of a bloomin’ law which can’t take its due course
when it wants to. Last week the day appointed
for Rvan’s second flagging dawned bright and
beautiful, but his criminal obstinacy still prevented
him from being in a fit state for splicing up to the
triangles. So there he lies on his little hospital
bed—a badly-damaged social problem. He hasn’t
had the second flogging which would have-been
the first flogging, as you may say, and even if he
should feel nice and well for the third flogging he
can’t make a proper legal start at the 41st lash.
The dates of his three performances are hopelessly
muddled up, don’t you sec, and if they start cut-
ting into him at the wrong time John intends to
sue the Constitution for breach of contract. Also,
should he happen to die under the wrong flog it
will be wilful murder with felonious intent.
o
Mh. John Want, Q.C., states that while he was
endeavouring to thread his way out of Sydney
harbour in his 40 ton yacht the New South Wales
Permanent Artillery stationed at Middle Head
deliberately fired shot after shot at targets close to
his little vessel, whose progress was temporarily
delayed by the calm surrounding the targets afore-
said ; and that he and the crew narrowly escaped
with their lives, inasmuch as the yacht’s deck
was splashed with watjr thrown up by shot
a;.i i the heavy missiles that whizzed through
the rigging. Mr. Want terms this a coward I v
and unmanly bin nos-. The other side of
the story if, by any stretch of imagination,
it can' be regarded as having another side—
appears to be that a couple of imported Governors,
whose time (as they do nothing worth a rap and
get about 4:39,000 a year in all for doing it) is
valuable, were waiting to sec the firing commence,
and as the lawyer’s yacht didn’t move out of the
way quick enough, somebody “grew annoyed and
gave orders for liring to commence.” Now, sup-
posing that somebody we, f-f course, mean some
low person in moleskins, defended by an assigned
counsel with a slanting forehead and a chin com -
posed of hair only stood behind the spikes of
tho Central Criminal Court and explained that the
reason he shot the other fellow dead was that
deceased, being temporarily disabled, would per-
sist inlying down on the ground in the direction
m which lie intended to shoot, what verdict
would the jury return under the direction of
his Honor ? if Jack Want or one of his crew
jiad been killed under the circumstances admitted
in the inspired “explanation,” some one would or
ought to have been tried for wilful murder- and
undoubtedly there should have been a conviction
tor manslaughter.
A West M aitland (N.8.W.) youth, found guilty
°t criminally assaulting a girl who had not
craved at the ago of consent, has been permitted
and encouraged by the Judge who tried him to
marry her, and has thereupon been discharged
imm custody after being, as a matter of form.
■ hound over to appear when called on.” This
> s a very nice arrangement for the youth, and,
w some people it may seeni a very wise one, but
nvertheless it is a complete stultification of the
uu sot “ justice, as. justice is ordinarily under-
hv n IU aw " cour^s . A’he grave offence committed
.y.UiisiNs was one against the purity and well-
tf’wi ■ t * e immunity even more than against
c iat ot his victim. 11 is evident that he escaped im-
i ,som »ent, firstly, because he was young and free
marry; and, secondly, because the girl
' 'ng very likely under undue and abnormal
p siiiismu- consented to marry him. But if the
I’m,. '?• old_ enough to give her consent in
l l( , 'Wootioii it is not evident that she can
iiteil give consent in another involving
'ind'• f ccmtra !'t. “Common-sense"is not law,
tli ■ ."i *. 11 direct iasne with it. For instance,
wui,, 1 . 1 ' yA nta fA“ this youth has secured may prime
i other youngster to emulate his behaviour,
Mihi. , t »e judge he comes before is the West
spikomi ° 1- <me who has an equally elevated
thi-Mv°V 1,1 conduct which should pave
imit'if’Y ! ' lo ly matrimony/’ the unfortunate
wiHii i" , ; come nearer to make acquaintance
fict m lr • H ,r or <; at than with the altar. In
m meidmit. is sufficient, if taken up and
■■i Von w,t " hieh should be looked for in
first Jf*" : V" ''".'W'die country, to constitute the
Ti„, 'J p Kwanlx a new state of social existence.
Maliin IH,V1 H,V "! Jvmi"' arose from the I {.ape of the
Rlorv a - a ' K l 0" "know what rapture and
will ,j IU!UI stiore for this sunny land if only it
\vorsf'?? S|,lr<! to '""hi its married state on the
vipfod 'ftses of s-•dilution ' “ You have been con-
" “utraging this girl, ’ says the Law—
o'* unci marry I, r. Take your choice : gaol
and the lash are on one side of you, matrimony is
on the other.” And she married him—the felon—
and the Crown Prosecutor gave her a guinea as a
wedding-present. The N.S. Wales Supreme Court
again !
.
Chief Justice Barley (who has an option under
the law as to hogging) is evidently a believer in
the brutal old convict code of Botany Bay. He
has just ordered one Thomas Atkins, convicted of
criminal assault, to be imprisoned for five years
with hard labour, and to be twice flayed alive
during that period. Judge Barley evidently
belongs to the Hingland of a couple of hundred
years ago, or, as we are at the other end of the
world, let us say to the New South Wales of less
than 100 years ago; for, judging by this sentence,
he could, without much compunction, have con-
scientiously performed all the acts then incidental to
the office of judge-advocate, under, say, the genial
Governor, Ralph Darling. The Bulletin loathes
and despises all torturers, because torture has
been a miserable failure from and before the time
of Pontius Pilate, when Christ was crucified
between two thieves, down to the time when, with
tlie concurrence, or, at any rate, without any pro-
test from, the Supreme Court judges of Botany
Bay, one Alfred Stephen, some time a Van-
demon ian Crown-prosecutor, instituted, with the
concurrence of a convict-time-tainted legislature,
a criminal code which punishes 22 offences with
death and as many with torture —a code which
would have adorned the days of Nero or
Don titan. Flogging has been a failure from and
long before the time when Botany Bay governors
whipped women at the cart’s tail and branded
them “in a convenient part of the person,” to
the not-long-past morning, only a few years ago,
when the Victorian Government scourger flogged
an absolutely innocent man into paralysis, and
sent him, blind, to crawl along the street selling
boot-laces. Imprison your human tiger, if you
like, but what, in the name of God or devil, is the
use of torturing the beast —granted that he is a
beast —which you have encaged ? The lash has
been a failure, Judge Barley. Bring along the
Red Indians’ bonfire and the good old Henglish
scavenger’s daughter.
Private Cooper, late of the 13th Hussars, whose
claim that he was one of the survivors of the Six
Hundred who went for that historic ride up the
Balaclava Valley was unimpeachable, disgraced
himself and his country by dropping dead one
morning in February last while engaged in sweep-
ing a road for the Kensington Vestry. First give
us the old familiar wheeze
“Honour the Light Brigade,
Noble Six Hundred !”
then chant—
This, heroes, this was your country’s cry !
(’Twas in the bright day of your glory.)
The years have proved ’twas the same old lie—
The same false and devil-born story.
Say, what guerdon for that ride to hell ?
No mouldy crust, nor a worn-out broom,
But a care-free life, a soldier’s knell?
A street to sweep, and a pauper’s doom >
\\ hat! when flesh is as cheap as shame.
Pay golden coin for a deathless deed ?
Not much ! our price for a soldier's fame
Is: “Good ! there’s one mouth the less to feed !”
The New York Sun in a recent editorial stated
that :
Now the question of the wisdom of capital punishment
begins to he seriously considered in many quarters where
formerly doubts as to its efficacy and necessity were re-
garded as indications and evidences of intellectual oddity
ami perversity, or of weak and silly sentimentality.
Further on it drew the attention of its readers to
the fact that Sir James Mackintosh declared
long ago that on an average one innocent man
was hanged in every three years, and then pro-
ceeded to show that capital punishment is by no
means a deterrent thus :
It was abolished in Holland in 1870. Between 1801 and
1869 there were 19 murders; between 1871 and 187!) the
number was only 17, despite an increase of population.
In Finland there has been no execution since 1824, and
yet murders are extremely rare; in Belgium none since
186,1, and yet the crime of murder has decreased. The
majority of the Swiss cantons dispense with the death-
penalty, though no efficient substitute has been provided.
Between 1809 and 1871 out of 481 persons sentenced to
death in Pnusia only one was executed I Portugal and
Roumania have abolished capital punishment without
evil results. There has been no execution in Tuscany for
50 years. In Austria, Sweden, and Norway, it has been
discontinued to a great extent, the number of executions
proportionately to the death sentences being small.
It doesn’t much mend the case of the unhappy
Victorian girl, Bella Ferguson, now undergoing-
ten years’ penal servitude for “murdering” her
illegitimate infant, that hot-tongued, emotional
men like Dr. Maloney, M.L.A., should assert
that “the so-called Minister of Justice,” “Mr.
Righteous Wrixon,” is a disgrace to the country,
and ought not to be allowed to hold office.” Still
it is hard for hot, spurting, indignant blood to
speak meekly of Bella Ferguson's case, when it
is contrasted with that of the cold-blooded, mur-
derous, baby-farming woman, Selina Davies,
who, for the sake of gold, cast out helpless baby-
hood to almost certain death. The calculating
deliberate Davies gets oft with 18 months ; Fer-
guson, the distracted, delirious, desperate mother,
who loved her infant, but has had her reason
wrecked, gets 10 years.
o-
“ What a nondescript day is Good Friday in
Melbourne, ’ writes a correspondent. Publicans
open by law, theatres closed by law. What sort
of piety is this ? Booze up galore, but if you go
to see “A Man’s .Shadow" you are, —what shall
wo say ? \on can go to see a man, but you musn’t
sec bis shadow. Hotels all open for cloves between
the acts of the Sacred Concert. Ha! ha! ha! Then
there is a praiseworthy Ev angelical place called
the Seamen's Institute, in Port Melbourne, a suit-
able kind of Free Athemeum, nice, new and com-
fortable, with a pretty good secular library. But
here is a curious indication of the march of public
opinion. The Library is opened on Sundays for
seamen only, being open for every one else all the
week. Now what is the logic of t his ? All people,
except sailors, are demoralised by reading books
on Sunday! The magnificent .Melbourne Public
Library, Australia's grandest artificial institution,
is padlocked on Sunday. How long ! How long!
-♦
This is the sort of thing Hugh (,). Pentecost, e -
parson and ex-Single-taxer, deals out to his old
leader, 1 lenry George, in the columns of H.O.TVs
paper, the Twentieth Century: -
Men are always tempted to create Gods who agree with
• hem in opinion and who will do what they want done.
For example : Henry Gkorok Believes in tlie Single-tax.
He also believes in some kind of a God. He is no Fa very
definite kind of God, but he is a kind of God. That is why
Geo non was allowed to go into the churches of England anil
Scotland and preach the Single-tax doctrine from the
ludpit; because he believes in some kind of a God. The
Church people arc not a? particular ns they used to be.
Time was when you. had to believe in a vctv particular
kind of God to set into a church pulpit, but the Gods are
tececiing so rapidly from human view now that all that is
I s W u to believe in some kind of a God,
mdetiMHe, it is of no consequence; you need
£«. * P,am M k ' nd of a (;!ol) it is ; all that is necessary
is that you shall believe in some kind of a God. Well, as!
KXRV ■ Gkorok , J’elieves in the Single-tax, and he
♦ ln Soniekln( . of a Goi >- it is therefore not the
least bit of a surprise to discover that Mr. George's very
STANoipf, nf°nf 80 f n b ? lievei ' in the Single-tax. In the
m f of October 10, in speak in* of the Single-tax sys-
tem ot taxation, Mr. Gkokuk says it is the system that is
by * intelligenco which is behind natural
nnw .. He pw<» the word “ intended” in italics so as to
n-o-f. * 17 f ?r cib,e> • Now ’ obsel ' ve the point that lam
making. Air. George is a man of thinking power. He
does not behove in a man-like God. He has no crude or
■savage idea of God. His idea of God corresponds to the
most advanced theories of the Theistic school of thinkers
He he],eves in the God of the nineteen.h century • a
philosophical, an enlightened, an indefinite God, such as
many large-minded persons believe in after it is no longer
possible tor them to believe in the Christian Jehovah.
But do you not see where the harmfulness of even such
an idea of God comes in? Mr. George has a theory of
taxation, and instead of allowing that theory of taxation
to be discussed upon its merits as something that has
been devised by the brain of man, he declares that God
111 the Single-tax. If that is so of course all
a 77i'i CUt . O - f h 1 tbe , “Intelligence which is behind
natuial laws intended that the Single-tax should "o into
operation, that settles it. And it is cquallv true that
m so tar ns Mr. George can make his disciples believe that
18 a b >ngle-.taxer b ? will put an end to their thinking
. I h nt subject. And that is always the trouble with
of n°"r). You get people to believing that this,
rhfni7 the oth ?f 18 th , e . Wlll of Gou and then they stop
thinking upon the subject. J 1
The Democrats of Victoria, if there be any
lett, will be rejoiced to hear what their old
champion, G uaham Berry, said to “ Wales” when
he handed him over the Silver Wedding present
subscribed for by Sirs Clarke, Macßain, Davies,
and a few other citizens of Melbourne. The
emasculated tribune simpered after this fashion
The wassail bowl, the venerable symbol of araitv and
alliance, may perhaps suggest how often the health and
happiness ot your royal house are toasted beyond the
Eastern seas (generally by Duncan Gillies and Co at the
expense of the tax-payers). It only remains for me to
thank your Koyal Highnesses tor accepting their gift, and
to hope that it may remain for ages yet to come among
the heirlooms of your house, and that the loyalty and dc-
\ otion which it typifies may be equally enduring 1 .
That from the lips of the creature who cried “ let
us cut the painter ! ” not so many years ago. Even
ItJMMv, who is kept pretty well posted up iu the
political history of those who come and crawl to
him, must have felt sick. His reply was very
brief, we find. And when the bandy-legged
i enegade had backed out of the royal presence it
is possible that Albert Edward ordered the wassail
bowl to be kept for use as a steward’s basin when
next he should go to sea.
Gladstone, in his last letter to the electors
of Midlothian, says that “ his physical nature is
beginning to shrink from sustained effort.”
Lady (to assistant in furniture-store) :
Where are those handsome side-boards you had
last week ?” Shopman (feeling his chin) ; “ Oh, I
shaved them off the day afore yesterday, mum.”
George Collins Levey has been writing up
his American travels in the Age. He married a
daughter of 0. W. Ligar, Surveyor-General of
Victoria, who, being pensioned off, settled in
Texas.
The last man hanged at N.S.W, tvas
hanged at W agga. The last man murdered iu
JN.S. \v. was murdered in Wagga. The last Tas-
manian murderer is brother-in-law to the man last
hanged for murder at Wagga. The more familiar
you are with the gallows the more likely you are
to commit a murder. The existence of a State-
paid murderer is the greatest incentive to assassin-
ation.
The Bulletin was the first paper in Aus-
tralia to “show up” Explorer Stanley as a hero
to be swallowed with several grains of’ salt, just as
it was to denounce cranky Gordon as a psalm-
singing manslaughterer who persisted m becoming
a “glorious martyr.” In the light of recent re°-
velations how ridiculous the Tory gush over the
here of Khartoum reads to-day I ’’ And how Jong
will it be before Stanley is universally recognised
as a first-class humbug ?
A favourite freak of the lively young men
of Moscow is, we read, to hire an elephant lor an
evening and get it drunk on champagne. The
thing sounds expensive, hut after all, it would be
cheaper to make an elephant drunk than to keep
on buying drinks for an alderman or a member of
1 arliament. W e make this assertion knowing
full well that the Mayor of Sydney has been
entertaining the aldermen of X.S. Wales at recep-
tions, pic-nics, and banquets.
That well-known Victorian vigneron,
Albert Bruhn, has got from Amsterdam an order
for 100(1 hogsheads of his wine, and inquiries as
to whether any good local vineyards are purchase-
able ; and an English syndicate promoted by John
Woods, of Sydney, is about to take over Fallon’s
celebrated Murray Valley Vineyard (800 acres
freehold, of which 227 are planted with vines).
It seems likely that the next commercial boom
will be one in Australian vineyards.
The U.S. Congress has granted to rail-
roads, in the last 25 years, 170,000,000 acres of
the people s land. This makes a territory equal
to France and England combined. But that is
not all. I t has granted to 20 alien absentee land-
lords 20,047,000 acres : thus there is in the posses-
sion of 20 foreigners a territory equal to Ireland.
The native land-holders make an equally formid-
able array. Col. Murphy left more than 4,000,000
acres; Standard Oil Co. owns over 1,000,000
acres; ex-Senator Dorsey nominally holds 500,000
acres ; Disston has 2,000,000 acres, and Col.
Church collects rents from 180 farms, averaging
500 acres. The total number engaged in agricul-
ture in the U.S. is 7,070,493 ; of these only 2,984,306
are nominal owners of their holdings. ’ The rest
are tenants and labourers under great landlords.
These figures give the States the lead of all nations
in possessing the largest tenant-farming class in
the world. Fifty years ago the States Govern-
ment possessed 900,000,000 arable acres of land ;
to-day, remaining less than 200,000,000.
Not by any means a bad shot at prophecy
has been scored by a contributor to the Ox roan
-Magazine- the journalistic vent-hole for the high
spirits and low jokes of the undergrads. Some
years ago, referring to Gilbert Murray’s- son of
X.S.W.’s Sir Terence Aubrey of that ilk speech
at a Home Rule meeting, “Larry O’Toole”
wrote: —
Thin came Murray, John’s College, (ho darlint,
An Australian from over the say;
* May the saints shower blissins upon him,
And help him to get his degray.
May St, Patrick put tips in his papers,
And cajole the examiners too ;
May he grant him the fame of Mahalfy,
And a ledd\ with ols of the blue, his due,
And to doy wid the wealth ot a Jew.
Murray is now “ professor,” and is recognised as
one of the brilliant “ classics ” of the day, and, at;
he married money and a title, the chances are
he’ll “ doj ' w ith money and a tith t< >,
A Mortgage on a Billet.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
Tare the “ Year Book of New South Wales ’’and
turn up any department. You will there find
several alleged gentlemen of the same name in
nearly every branch of the Government service.
Here allow me to send out a meteorite from the
sphere of my subject re the word alleged. News-
paper editor, we thank thee for the word “alleged."
Jr,is so useful. When you started to put “alleged
loigery, alleged malpractice, alleged sheol, instead
of the headings which would have brought per-
sona or pecuniary castigation on you, you afforded
us the “oi polio,;' a means of calling one another
bloomin' liars " without the persiflage of “efflo-
rescent perverters of the truth." On the Murrum ■
oidgee now we talk of the “alleged gentleman ''
when we mean a eontaminated cad. V/'o go
farther ; we mention the rations as “alleged tea
and sugar, ’ knowing that they are sand and sloe-
leaves, and our cheques are for al/cipd soreveif/n*,
oemg virtually sixpence short of the amount if
spent with a hawker, and worth only a headache
and perish if wetted at a pub.
iuH n . ow *° t'esume this important inquiry, as
° uie used to say in his stump-speech.
All Government appointments are mortgaged to
relatives or friends of the patron, and that is how
1 came to use the word 1 have, been discussing.
No (/cntlcinun would appoint a relative to a jot
billet, although the case is very different with, say,
a general, appointing his soil as A.D.C. I re-
member General T in India, refusing to re-
commend bis own nephew for a staff appointment,
tor winch he was eminently qualified, and simply
because of the relationship. Boor T- (nephew)
used to say it was perdition hard to have the same
name as Ins uncle.
But it is not of such billets I am about to speak.
lam at present on or near the Murrumbidgee. I
was similarly situated twelve years ago. I find
the same men in the same billets, and using the
vvords, ire, tisund Co., although I know that thev
oiten ; jack them up and leave, r l he ref ore, I
inter there is some sort of mortgage to be estab-
lished in order to provide a certainty of employ-
ment. After mentioning two notable exceptions
i shall analyse the case.
The first of these is that of a woolpresser who,
for twelve years faithfully year by year jammed
the fleeces, making a good cheque and spending it
freely, but not extravagantly, for extravagance is
the root of many evils. Virtue and perseverance
must in the end meet with reward. He has,
therefore, been promoted to jackaroo, rangie, pau-
nikin overseer, or whatever you like to call him,
and his pay is raised to £7O per annum, .which is
about £3O less than he made before. But he is
Mister” now and tuckers in the barracks off
delf instead of tin.
Again, a bullock-driver that I knew is now an
overseer, but he has a good-looking wife.
I was anxious to know how they (the lifers)
could make sure of a billet, and so I referred to Flot-
sam (we travel as Flotsam and Jetsam) for infor-
mation.
He knew all about it, and graphically described
it as clannishness, crawling, terror, and tribute-
money.
Clannishness means that you are a Tip.,
Hielander, Orangeman, or “ Cousin-Jack." Eng-
lishmen, Lowland Scotch, and foreigners don't
count under this head.
Crawling is, as everybody knows, another wind
for blarneying, or, again, suffering any obloquy and
allowing it to be rubbed in.
T had great difficulty in persuading Flotsam t >
define terror, but at last I got him to show that a
manager and a boundary rider might have been in
gaol together, or mutually assisted at a cattle-
duffing, or blended their interests in .a wee bit.
perjury case. “ Then what," said I, “in the
name of the three Saints, Flotsam, Jetsam and
■Cigaii, what oh ! what is the tribute-money? '
“ The most successful of the lot. A Certain
milkman always brings a case of whisky back at
the tail-end of a spree. The overseer at "the back-
station is a true believer and puts him on. Am (her
lifer lias a valuable mare; the foals go to the over-
seer. A Scotchman has the best bred and trained
dogs in the district. Every jackaroo on his run
has a dog from him. A cook we know has sup-
plied the young ladies of the station with neckties,
ribbons and gloves (even boots) for ten years. A
woolpresser you and I know well, gives four, five,
or six weeks’ work for his tucker before shearing.
V\ e know at least a dozen shearers’ cooks who
manage to get into the home, hut or outstation
during the fogs, and where the slushy is there will
the shearers be gathered (for cadging). No, Jet-
sam, dear boy, there is no chance for you and me
except on what clansmen, crawlers and tributers
call larrikin stations—those owned or managed
by young men who will give and take and don't
care a rap who does their work so long as
it is done. Let’s get on to Bluegum or Wattle-
bower. Have you heard of Bob the Tooker ? ”
( 1 had, indeed, heard of and seen that gentleman
“on the wallaby.” Yon city people won’t believe
what lam going to tell you. Bob once brought
back, after his annual bust, a present of a set of
gold studs for his employer, part-owner of a quar-
ter of a million of sheep, and the squatter took
them and put him in his old billet, thereby send-
ing a comparative stranger on tramp. But all
things change, and one time (last year) Bob
returned after a lengthened carouse, and told the
manager that he was trying how long they could
do without a good man. That ended his mortgage.
Even a far-downer won't stand cheek. There'is
only one other form of mortgage, and it is pecu-
liarly funny to me. It is to draw a portion of
your cheque, and come back for the rest, as if the
station is your savings-bank. Another form of the
same is to hurry out on the wine, and pay a sub-
stitute ! One noted cook did this, giving three
pounds a week to a friend, although the screw was
only five-and-twenty bob. Unfortunately, how-
ever, the weather was warm, the flies were
vicious, so it happened to the reveller as it did
unto Herod, his spree brought about the loss of
one eye and damage to the other.
A crow has followed me ever since St. Patrick's
Day. He has a mortgage on my body. I leave
mv spirit towards the strengthening of a certain
publican's nun, instead of the nicotine he uses.
SCOTTY THE WRINKLER.
The height of the conservative shopkeeper’s
ambition is to become a member of the local
Council, and serve his bleeding country by tacking
his commonplace name on to a new street. It
matters nothing to him that the street has no
drainage system, nor any lamps, that it isn’t
decently paved, and that its three inhabited
houses, built on foundations of foetid “soakage,”
produce six deaths a year between them. Knoligh
for the councillor that his name will be handed
down to posterity amidst a gruesome aggregation
of eternal'stinks. To do the councillor justice, he
doesn’t realise the enormity of his crime, brim;
’link proof himself, libs a C/himumoi,


[?]
846 Macquarie-street North, Sydney, April 16,1896.
MvDear Moorabinda, —
Much has been said by the jocular on the goings-on of
nautical captains with their lady passengers, and much
has been made of the consuming jealousy of the other
women towards the favoured individual who sits at the
petty ruler’s right hand basking in the atmosphere of his
tarry compliments, hut, after a thoughtful study of the
question from every point of view, I have come to the con-
clusion that—for maritime mashing—the captain “isn’t
in it ” with the officers. Captains are too observed, for
one thing—for another, they are usually bald and grizzled
and pre-occupied and liable at any moment to be hauled
on to the bridge even in the blush of an intricate flirta-
tion. And then they are always so obviously—so unpro-
misingly married. The “ mates ” are often married, too,
hut connubiality hasn’t had time to silver their raven
locks —they know to the hour when they will be off duty ;
and they are not the objects of popular attention which
their stern commander is, poor man! Consequently (I
speak by the nautical card, mind you !) the captain spends
most of his spare time in his cabin whilst his officers
Well, on a recent trip “ down South,” I travelled with the
wife and daughter of a N.S.W. clergyman. Arrived in
port at 9 p.m., mamma organised a search-party to find
her daughter who, after long and arduous hunting was
discovered in a cool place hugging the second mate I One
captain only can I recall who acted up to my preconceived
ideas of what the festive mariner was like and he always
had a saloon full of the greenest gushers ea route. No
married man would allow his Pansy Blossom to voyage
“ under the captain’s care ” in that particular dingy, for
they all fell in love with him, married or single, and re-
sults were often very pretty indeed. He found himself
dismissed. Companies don’t like flirty captains.
In spite of all wise prognostications that see-more
bodices were “ going out,” the wear at recent balls proves
That—for this season, at least—the enlarged waistbelt
still holds its own in society, and that fifteen yards for
the skirt and one for the bodice still conies up smiling in
the fashionable froekbuilder’s account. It's a great pity,
for, according to recently-compiled statistics, they are the
great first cause of ail the chest complaints that society
women are heir to. Women—physically weak, though
they are—are marvellously “ adaptable,” and the im-
munity from sneezing a hollow-chested damsel enjoys,
even though she goes out in all weathers with only a luce
tucker ’twixt her and la grippe, proves that sinew has
nothing to do with it. But the men—poor, mute victims
of the decollete habit—are being slowly undermined. To
allow the V-shaped darlings to frisk with bronchial im-
munity, rooms are being kept hot and unventilated—
windows are “ blind ” and doors open into corridors, and
the consequence is, that what is “ cosy’ ” to a half-dressed
woman, is a baker’s oven to a cloth-clad man. If you
think the acknowledged heat of a hall-room is felt equally
by both men and women, study the faces of any’ couple
negotiating a waltz. His face will be as flushed and per-
spiring as if he wore in a training-rug ; she will he as cool
as the early morning “ shower.”
Have you heard of the latest Sydney patent ? Unbreak-
able corsets. All the engaged girls have sent out for
them in a hurry, and as a doleful result all the engaged
y oung men wear their right arms in a sling, for they—the
corsets, not the young men—are made of iron and—but
ihe invention is worthy a verselet;—
He hugged her to his bounding heart,
With forty-horse-power grip to start,
And she thought she was in Zion.
Said he, “My Sweet! thou seemeth cold,
Thou dost not yield as I enfold"—
“ I would yield, Gussie,” he was told,
“ But my new stay’s are iron !”
K Madams II ,” a Sydney humbug of the fortune-
telling order, who lately died (she was not a Madame, hut
a very’ vulgar Englander), left £14,000 ready cash.
Is it a sign of the prying inquisitiveness of our genera-
tion that the columns of the evening papers abound with
the advts. of clairvoyantes, seers, and other fraudulent
lat ter-day Deborahs who live in Pickwickian neighbour-
hoods in a perennial atmosphere of fried onions? Even
a prophetess cannot get on without a commissariat, and
as they advertise placidly from year to year someone
must play raven to their Elijah—someone must he Jug-
gins enough to cross their palms with a bit o’ silver and
go away filled with dark, awful warnings to beware of
something. There is a general impression that thesefrauds
are supported by poor, superstitious Bridget O'Toole, who
wants to “ diskivir” what the butcher's intentions really
are, but a great number of the women who patronise those
transparent frauds are what you call “ nice ” people—
fashionable star-gazers. The seer of the moment abides
in Surry Hills. Her office-hours are from 9 a,in. till 10
p.m., but if you haven't an appointment you may have to
cool your heels until long after that hour. A friend of
mine visited her house the other day for an hour or two.
In that time two of her clients had carriages outside, and
my friend recognised the face of a well-known doctor’s
wife as she passed out. It seems incredible that edu-
cated women should put faith in the high falutin’ of these
grimy humbugs, but it’s astonishing how many’ do, never-
theless. A Darling Point lady, at present very ill, and
under the best medical advice, sends her handwriting to
this “ clairvoyants ” every morning to know how she’s
getting on !
Though Commemoration Day at Sydney University was
this year held on such an off-day as Monday, the jostling,
pushing crowd that filled the great hall was as numerous
and aggressive as though it were framed in u public holi-
day. Before the harrier large, he-plumed women would
place their bock hair in your mouth in a most uupieiu-
diced spirit—long, spectacled men would precipitate
themselves into the vortex and fight tooth-and-nail for
first place with tottering old ladies, who were continually
sent rattling among the chairs; and presumably sell
respecting young women would turn round and forcibly
back their way to a position of vantage. Behind the
barrier all was peace and Austrian chairs, in the front row
whereof the vice-regal ladies were seated. Lady Oarington
had assumed a French grey with front of white lace, white
kid gloves, white and grey bonnet with crown of butter,
cups and the greenish wear she wore at the races. The
Countess wore a greyish delaine skirt figured in navy-
blue, black visite and bonnet, of white heath with tulle
strings ; Mrs. Acland-Hood, white silk skirt, fawn jacket,
and black hat adorned with yellow buttercups. The pro-
ceedings were much as usual —banners, an effigy of an un-
savoury-looking footballer, with (lie usual unmeaning
tumult from the under-grads., who, so fur as Commemo-
ration days show, arc as witless and unoriginal a set as
the great legal functionaries whose miserable jokes yon
see so carefully reported in the daily papers. By-the-hy,
when Baron Oarington in Iris speech said (in effect) how
foolish it was for Australia to dream of becoming a Re-
public, there were murmurs of “ No !’’ and “ Query I”
which showed that Imperial platitudes delivered in the
subdued light of stained glass cannot altogether blind the
coming Cornstalk to the advantages of national inde-
pendence.
Last week in Sydney should be designated “ pawn-
broker's week ” since it was nocturnally remarkable for
“ three balls.” Hostilities commenced with the vice-regal
dawnoe, on Bth hist., when over 600 “representative”
people took part in the formal gubernatorial festivities
and tried vainly to look as if they were enjoying them-
selves horribly. But the proceedings were what bad little
boys call “ starchy,” and one yearned for dotted music.
Lady Oarington wore a rather meretricious gown of new
red combined with red and gold tinsel brocade which
didn’t become her so well as other colours do, and com-
plete suite of diamonds. The Countess of Hopetoim wore
a gown in ivory white silk and brussels-net with diamond
additions. Lady Charles Scott wore fawn and pink, and a
visitor from Victoria loomed brilliantly in shiny blue
satin combined with large red roses, and decidedly over-
did the diamond business. The next hall was the civic
chavoo, on 10th inst., at Sydney Exhibition, when alack !
the rains descended and the floods came and youth and
beauty were landed with their bangs out of curl and a
strong odor of damp mackintosh pervaded their vicinity,
while owing to incomplete traffic arrangements many had
to walk from the gates to the entrance in the swirling
rain. Lady Oarington, who always appears when adver-
tised, wore pink floral silk combined with crepe-de-
chine—diamond jewellery. The Countess wore cream and
diamonds. Mrs. Acland-Hood was also in cream. The
Mayoress (Mrs. Burdekin) wore a combination of gold and
cream colour with diamond ornaments ; and a titled Vic-
torian lady east a warm sunset glow in a deep-red moire
relieved with red flowers and diamonds. The floor was
the same old ploughed field, and, as one belle essayed t he
mazy, an under-foot irregularity took the sole right off her
shoe, and she had to beat back home in briny tears
through the cold, wet night. The third and “best ”
event of the week was the dance given by the Union Club
bachelors at Needs’ Rooms on 10th inst., when a lovely
evening rewarded their hospitality and inter-colonial
vice-regality shed the light of its countenance over the
proceedings. The lovely flowers carried by some of the
beauteous guests were quite a feature of this ball—a
daintily-arranged posy of blush roses and autumn leaves
bound with autumn ribbon shot in green and copper
rousing pale envy under many a V-shaped corsage.
The N.S.W. Horticultural Society will hold a champion
chrysanthemum show at Sydney Exhibition Building on
23rd, 24th, and 25th inst. Lady Oarington performs the
opening rites.
Melbourne is to have her creche, and Sydney, discover-
ing the same necessity, is agitating for one also. Female
Rescuer Ardill is prime mover in the matter, and the only
thing wanted is a “ liberal benefactor ” to donate largely
towards the founding of suitable premises, after which
public subscriptions will keep the ball a-rolling. The
ordche is an unvarying success wherever instituted. A
woman with children has only too often to scratch for her
brood, and if she cannot work in her own home, that she
should go to the shop or factory with a trail of youngsters
after her, is out of the question. She cannot leave a
squad of sprawling infants, locked in with the kerosene
and the kitchen fire, but she can take them to the crf-chc >
which is merely a gigantic nursery, and know her chicks
are in safe keeping until her return. Of course, some
people will proclaim the creche merely a slight advance on
the Foundling Hospital, and instituted solely for the
benefit of Delilah el ci<’ ; but in otlhV 1 cities the “honest
working-woman ” has been its most constant patroness.
Steeplechase day at Randwick was hut cold in comfort to
the woman who had unwisely donned a summer garment
and hoped to escape la grippe. The wind was strong
and chilly and autumn frocks and wraps gave the stand
quite a gloomy appearance. Lady Oarington wore a
directoire gown in dove-colour cashmere braided to match
over a jupe of brownish velvet, directoire vest of rose-
pink chiffon, bonnet of velvet white blush roses, and
fawn wings and short velvet strings—spotted veil, parasol
of black gauze and moire, and wrap of pale pumpkin-
green picked out with white Valenciennes lace. The
Countess of Hopetoun wore fawn alpaca, with visite of
black velvet and jet—a big alsatian how in white moire
ribbon with short strings forming her bonnet. Mrs.
Aoland Hood wore black lace and silk, with fawn covert
coat and black lace hat adorned with pink roses. Lady
Charles Scott wore ash-grey poplin embroidered in
silver, with white silk front and flying ribbons,
sealette jacket and black hat with pink roses. As
the day was so bleak the Government House
party did the lawn vigorously the Earl and
Countess being stared out of countenance as they
pegged up and down together, and as the vice-regal
example was generally followed, one saw the gowns to the
best advantage, but since it was a day of wraps there was
nothing paralysing afoot. A girl in braided dove-colour
cashmere and a heplumed black hat made herself patchy
by elevating a sap-green gamp. Another in crimson
picked out with the fashionable black astrachan spoilt
herself by wearing scarlet poppies in her hat ; and a
fearful apparition sported brown and “yaller” (built
apparently by a dolls’ dressmaker), tan boots, .and a hat
trimmed with buttercups, some of which hung rakishly
into her left eye. Then J saw Cassius Jewett in tan hoots
with a girl in lizard stripes on one side, and a damsel in
black, with a seagull in her hat, on the other. Miln
smoked a big cigar and wore a Shakespearian collar.
“E.W.” had a prize gardenia in his coat, and the band
played “ Are you there, Mori-a-ri-tay ?” for about half the
time.
The first N.S.W. vice-regal reception of the winter
season, eventuating on the 11th inst., the day after the
civic shavoo, was remarkable for the number of weary-
eyed women drooping on garden-seats and maintaining a
weary silence to the droning of the band. The weather
was perfect, and Lady Carington, as is usual on fine days,
received her tormentors on the verandah, seconded by the
Baron, who looked tired and wore a sky-blue tie. Th*
gubernatorial garment on this occasion consisted of cream
striped silk with draped tablier over a plain skirt edged
with deep flounce, Directoire vest of cream chiffon, bonnet
in cream lace straw with forget-me-nots and short strings
of electric blue, white complexion-fall, white gloves, and
a large black fan. The Countess of Hopetoun, whose free-
and-easy attitudes were regarded with gaping awe by an
on-my-best-mauners assemblage, wore a glrly gown of
cream mousselin-de-soie dotted with little measle-spotg
in pink and made with a tar-barrel skirt edged with three
rows of pink ribbon, blouse bodice fastened with a rose-
pink belt—the crime being further aggravated by a long-
haired white felt hat turned up at the side and
trimmed with white feathers and pink bows! For
etceteras, suede gloves, a cat's-eye bangle, white fall, and
a very short-handled cream silk parasol with a silver knob.
Altogether it was a weird, disheartening-looking get-up,
and if a stage countess dared to be so limp the gallery
wouldn’t believe in her for a single instant. Most of the
other people whose frock'ng arrested my eye wore gowns
that I had marked admiration points against at Rand-
wick : a turn-out in the new damson purple made with
ridged velvet sleeves, and a bias velvet band around the
feet worn with a marvellously matching sunshade and an
apology for a bonnet in a how of velvet and a handful pf
pansies on a bottle-brush coiffure—having been much in
evidence every race-day. Au rente “’Opetoun’s nigger’’
in baggy Turkish attire, scared the visitants the right way
through the red drawing-room to where brother Rupert,
got up to annihilate in a cocked hat, announced them
huskily to Lord and Lady Carington. “E.W.” fluttered
from flower to flower, and the lion. Judith Sydney Myee
was the centre of a gushing group at the lower end of the
garden.
Brides are dear, timid creatures, aren’t they? When
the happy day dawns, and Augustus is waiting at the
altar, they are so flatteringly blind, deaf and dumb with
the palpitating emotions of the solemn hour that near
the church-door they droop their pallid cheeks and
tremble like scared fawns. Which elegant periods gently
lead me up to state that at a recent Sydney suburban wed-
ding, as the bride struck the church “on the arm” of her
boss male relative, the said male relative, being far more
nervous than she was, started up the aisle at the rate of
forty knots an hour. But the overwhelmed bride, with
an eye to bridal effect, murmured audibly, “ Slowly!”
and then the white-robed figure, with bent head and
faltering step, went, lingeringly, to the side of her
promised bridegroom—(this style ten and six).
Yours affectionately,
SAPPHO SMITH.
Mayor Bnrdekia has been entertaining
the Mayors and Aldermen of N.S.W. The run
on Marshall's Tonic Nervine is now unprecedented.
The victory of Carbine in the Sydney
Cup with 9st. !)lbs. on his back —nine pounds
more than he carried to victory last year—shows
not only his undoubted excellence, but, also,
that excepting in a few notable instances, Aus-
tralian horses, especially the three-year-olds, are
not up to their usual standard.
The Sydney Arts Society had a smoke-
night last Saturday in their Pitt-street rooms,
when much warbling was indulged in by the artists
and their friends, and some very excellent light-
ning sketches were contributed. We need not say
that the wassail-bowl (brands various), likewise the
rubber baccy-pouch, circulated freely.
Sculler O’Connor is at last matched to row
Stansbury. Nothing is absolutely certain, yet it
is tolerably sure that whichever of the pair wins
on his merits will eventually be cock of the walk.
Thu Bulletin perceives, with much satisfaction,
that the Sydney rowing-gaffers—those great and
mighty potentates, whose privilege it is to have
tame scullers chained up in their back-yards—have
during the last week or two adopted a less bump-
tious and more businesslike tone.
Mandarin Quong Tart entertained the
Victorian and N.S.W. bowlers at a nicely-served
banquet in his King-street (Sydney) premises one
night last week, when Mr. Toohey, M.P., occu-
pied the chair. As the visiting team, so they say,
have been banqueted on an average four times
daily during their stay, and as most of them may
he classed among Pharaoh’s lean kino, it is evident
that there is a deeply-laid scheme afoot to bring
them up to the ninety-six inches of latitudinal
development prevailing among the bowling talent
of the mother colony.
Mr. Brodribb, the solid silver man from
Broken Hill, who gave £4(100 for the gelding
Titan (should the horse swallow a bit of the wrong
stuff it will cost 10s. to have him carted away), is
identical with the man who plunged on Moorc-
bank, and is said to have offered Humphrey
Oxenham £5000 to £1000 on Carbine about the
All-Aged Stakes. However, the latter thought
£1000 to £200 would be quite enough to risk
against the great New Zealander. Titan has his
two Derbies before him (Sydney and Melbourne),
and his new and plucky owner will not be under
much anxiety as to training, for Titan will likely
room with Carbine.
“Jack” Thompson, who died on Sunday
morning last of congestion of the lungs, was a
powerfully-built, manly fellow, whose life seemed
good for another forty years. A native of Boston,
he went all through the American war on the
Northern side, and had many stories to tell of
“ Gettysburg ” and other famous battles. Had
it been necessary, or had his tastes lain in
that way, he could have attained emi-
nence in the fistic arena, and Ins defeat of
Christie, at Brighton, 13 years ago, is probably
not yet forgotten. Few better-hearted and more
straightforward men than “ Jack ” Thompson
ever shouted the odds. He was brother to those
well-known ringmen, Joe, Barney and Phin.
Thompson.
“ The King is dead— long live the King.”
Abereorn has gone “off,” and Carbine is now
generally ranked as “the best horse Australia
ever saw.” The writer is not amongst the num-
ber, and both fit and well would as soon put them
in a hat and pick for the winner as back one or
the other. The pair met seven times, Carbine won
four to Abereorn’s three. Carbine’s admirers say,
look at Carbine’s performance in the Melbourne
Cup, with lOst. 11b., when he ran second to Bravo;
and Abercorn’s friends reply : Our horse won his
Melbourne Derby, Carbine failed in the attempt ;
and whilst Carbine won the Sydney Cup on a fine
day in 3min. 37sec., Abereorn cantered home in
the mud for the Metropolitan with 9st. 91b. on his
back in 3min. 83sec. So, taken all in all, the
Waler has just about as good a record as the
Maorilander.
Rev. F. B. Boyce’s well-compiled and
valuable annual return shows that every family of
five persons in N.S.W. spent on the average £22
0s. lOd. on liquor in 1889. The total figures show
an increased grog-expenditure of £90,222, but
allowing for the increase of population, a decrease
per head of Is. 7d. —this being the fourth annual
decrease. In 1885 the average expenditure on
alcohol per head was £5 17s. 8d. as against £4 8s.
2d. last year. N.S. Wales drinks more per head
than Great Britain, Canada, the States, or. New
Zealand, but less than Victoria, and both N.S.W.
and Victoria stand far beyond Great Britain in
their fondness for spirits. 8,50 men were in 1888
employed in the N.S.W. breweries and 9301 in the
N.S.W. coal-mines, yet the market value of the
respective outputs did not greatly differ ! Last
year there were 3240 public-houses in N.S.W., of
which over 800 were located in Sydney.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Theatre Royal “ I.a Tosca.”
Her Majesty's “ Now-a-Days."
Criterion. “ Nemesis.”
Opera House Boston Ideal Co.
Darlinqhurst Skating Rink.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess’s J. L. Toole.
Theatre Royal “It’s Never Too Late to
Mend.”
New Bijou “Diplomacy."
Opera House “ Paul Jones.”
Alexandra “ My Jack.”
The Gaiety Harry Rickards
St. Georoe's Hall Gogill Bros. Company.
“The Shaughraun ” is, so far, the London
Dramatic Company’s best effort, possibly because
the old chestnut —it was first produced at Wal-
lack’s Theatre in 1874 —is >so full of good stuff that
it is mighty hard to kill entirely. It is well-
staged at Sydney Royal, where J. H. Clyndes
plays Conn., an old part; the performance'is’
creditable, but—it was recently said in the columns
of a contemporary that J. H. C. was educated for
“the Church”—now we know why he failed to
take holy orders : he has no brogue, and that want
also disqualifies him from fully filling the bill as
the Shaughraun. All the company, bar Polly
Emery (who has it rich), E. B. Russell, and
George R. Melville, are similarly cursed, and the
Irish play that doesn’t trip on tongues shod with
the rale ould Oirish brogue is bound to limp
slightly. James Stevenson’s Harvey Duff was a
very good impersonation, although it was seemingly
a close copy of someone we've seen before. Messrs.
Eyre, Bucklaw, and Calvert were more bearable
than usual at intervals. Clara Cowper and Edith
Blancle did all that could have been reasonably
expected from them as Clare Efolliott and Arte
O’Neale, and most of the other performers made
so little of the little they had to do that silence
is their most fitting elegy. Next Saturday night
(D.V.) we shall have metal more attractive
in “La Tosca,” Sardou’s greatest effort, and the
most thrilling drama of modern times. The
Brown-Potter season will only last a month, and
is bound to hum like an apiary, for those who
don’t go to see the actress will go to see her
dresses, to study the tragic story of “La Tosca,”
and to see Jvyrle Bellew, cr Edward Sass, whose
acting in this play created such interest in Mel-
bourne.
*# * *
“ Now-a-Days” at Her Majesty’s, Sydney,
as we predicted, is a big “go,” and its Easter
xveek run, in spite of one wet night, was the biggest
the house has known. In fact, George Rignolcl is
so confident of a long run that the doctor has
induced him to take a holiday. “Now-a-Days,”
probably the best melodrama Sydney has seen
since “Silver King,” will probably run for some
weeks yet. Nevertheless, the management, it is
said, have a big revival of a long-dormant good
thing under consideration.
** * *
“ La Grippe,” without managerial permis-
sion, has taken possession of the boards at Sydney
Criterion. During the consequent temporary ab-
sence of that great favourite, Elora Graupner,
Clara Thompson played Lucy with some success.
The demon has now sneezed, we should say seized,
on the tuneful Tree and the facetious Forde, who,
moved thereby, occasionally favour the audience
with unrehearsed effects. Nevertheless, the
“ Sultan ” holds up bravely. Braoy’s “ Boat is ou
the Shore ” and “ Pipe and Glass ” songs go better
than ever; Tilly Lake and Aggie Atherton, in a
sailor’s hornpipe, score heavily; and the ballet,
thank goodness, in general has much improved.
“Nemesis, ’ an operatic extravaganza, by H. B.
Farnie, once very popular in the colonies, lately
very successful in Melbourne, will be revived on
Saturday evening.
** * *
At Sydney Opera House the Boston Ideal
Company are to the fore with a new bill, which is
to some extent an improvement ou its predecessor,
though, truth to tell, “ Muldoon’s Picnic” ie so
Amurikanly talky-talky that we sighed for the
“ Foiled Mashers ” again. By the way, the latter
piece is an adaption of the old English farce
“ Three for Supper,” whose motive was cribbed
from the French, who in turn borrowed from
Boccaccio’s tales. Ellwood, with superior physical
advantages to either, is the best female imper-
sonator that has visited these shores since the
days of Saphrini and Leon, “the only.” Franks
and Marion’s —the former is a good low comedian
—gymnastic dancing is the cleanest, most graceful
act of its kind we’ve seen, and May Yohe would
make a greater hit with her voice were she to sing
some well-known baritone ballads. Will Whit-
burn is usually funny, but Burns and Donnelly
are only occasionally troubled that way, and the
humour which requires to bo punctuated by the
stumping of an outside boot on one foot and an
inside on t’other can scarcely be described as
polished. New bill next Saturday.
* * *- *■
The skating-season at the Darlinghurst
Rink promises to be more successful than even
that of last year. A carnival-ball will take place
soon, which, it is said, will surpass anything of
the kind hitherto attempted in Sydney. The
management are sparing no pains to make their
patrons comfortable, and we can state, from per-
sonal experience, that the floor is the nicest to get
Lit with yet encountered.
»* # $
The new Melbourne Bijou lias not opened
proceedings under a lucky star. The “Money”
market was so quiet that the management tried
their “Diplomacy” on the public last Saturday
without quite succeeding in working up a boom.
Compared with previous representations by other
companies in Melbourne, the present revival of
“Diplomacy ” is an artistic success ; but by those,
and there are many, who haivo seen an almost
perfect performance of the same play in London,
it will not bo loudly praised. During the cele-
brated “three men scene,” well as it went on
Saturday, they could not forget how much
stronger was the effect created by Kendal, Clay-
ton, and Bancroft —the tall, handsome and stylish
trio who realised their respective characters in the
palmy days of the Prince of Wales Theatre. Fine
stage presences are necessary to a perfect re-
presentation of high-toned comedies In real life
Count Orloff and Henry Beauolerc may stand five
feet nothing, and resemble monkeys about the
head. But on the stage they are required to be
lordly swells of the true Family Herald type-
Making allowance for a lack of personal distinc-
tion, Mr. Titheiadge is excellent, and Mr. Brough
likewise ; but not nearly so much can be said for
Mr. Percy Lyndal. In the lighter passages he
talks like a good young man who wants to “goit,”
and even his good looks are of a type quite foreign
to any diplomatic service. He gives the impres-
sion of being one to attend evening service with »


A CURIOUS OLD LAW.
The State Legislature of Massachusetts in the
year 1789 passed a law that all brewers who make
yearly more than one hundred barrels of beer,
should be free from taxes and duties for five years’
In 1888 the Anheuser Busch Brewing Association
of St. Louis the brewers of the famous St. Louis
bager Beer, sold 510,313 barrels of beer, thus
P i,y iug nil com petit or' b-h?nd in the dim distance'.
A GHOST
is not a photograph, nor a photo, a ghost—but a good photo, is a
truo reflection of the original. For high-art photos, go to the
Loudon Palace of Art, 10 Park-street, Sydney. Country photographers’ work from developement
tv. completion executed at lowest prices, Pvomides a speciality. Staff of artists kept for working up.
ITse Batho’s Baking Powder.
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
r u Batho’s Baking Powder.
maiden aunt; yet it must be allowed that he
shakes off some of his femininity at the critical
moments, and so comes out of the whole trans-
action with a decent average. Miss Homer cer-
tainly hits the bull’s-eye fair in the middle, as do
Mr. Bouoicault and others who undertake very
minor parts. Equally successful, under far more
trying conditions, is Mr. Anson, his Baron
Stein being the most striking personage
in the _ show. Miss Fanny Ehson created
a good impression as Comtesse Zicka, her first
appearance in Melbourne. Nevertheless, the in-
sincerity of the jealous adventuress is made so
over apparent that it is hard to understand how
anybody could lend her a bunch of keys without
keeping a subsequent eye on her movements.
Mrs. Brough seems to reserve all her ability for
one very good effort at the end of the third act.
Her natural charm of manner only partially com-
pensates for her artistic shortcomings throughout
the earlier scenes. There seems to be no depth
about Dora’s romantic love for'the young English-
man—no young bride’s spooniness in tone or ges-
ture when she addressed him. Mrs. Brough’s
is on all fours with that of Percy
Lyndal. The comedy is, of course, mounted in
the best Brough-Boucicault style, and will doubt-
less run to good business for a time.
** * *
A rumour that Toole showed a disposition
to freeze at Melbourne Princess’ was industriously
circulated last week. As a matter of fact the
house was crammed every night but one, when the
rain, acting upon haunting fears of influenza, kept
a few seats vacant. Matters are not likely to take
an unfavourable turn this week, because “ Artful
Cards ” is an insane improvement on “Ohawles,”
and includes one supreme moment when the entire
company convert themselves into an orchestral
band, and hoist British drama to the lofty altitude
of a nigger entertainment. The mechanical
accuracy with which this rapid change is effected
suggests the advisability of turning “Macbeth”
into a skating-rink whenever that revered tragedy
seems to require a leg-up. “ The Steeplechase,'”
following “ Artful Cards,” is a nuisance of long
standing, but as the bill changes every week
farther comment is unnecessary. Next Saturday
Toole will essay to make the tear stand gently in
their h’eye by playing Caleb Plummer, afterwards
breaking out as Simmons, in “The Weavers.”
** * *
“Paul Jones” goes along as usual at the
Opera House, and the man who says “ Where do
I come in ?” after the opera has started, is firmly
but politely informed that he can’t come in at all - .
The end of Paul seems to be far off. The foam-
crested waves of prosperity break upon Nellie
Stewart’s exchequer with a rhythmical roar night
after night, and if Paul wants to know what they
are saying, Nellie probably replies, in a confi-
dential whisper, “ Another £250, my dear.” But
when the buccaneer has sacked the entire citv, a
revival of “Faust ” may possibly ensue.
* * -Mf *
A diminution in the consumption of
brandy at neighbouring bars indicates that
“Drink” has been well attended at the Royal
this last fortnight. Few men care to order a
nobbier of brandy, in cold blood, after watching
Warner’s jim-jams. Until the moral influence
has quite worn out they either compromise with
their conscience by taking an extra dose of whisky
for medicinal purposes, or, better still, assist their
psychological researches with a long “shandy,”
and not too much beer in it. After Coupeau bids
blue-tigers a last farewell there never can be any
more sense loft in “Drink” as a drama. With
Miss Gracie Warner altogether out of place as
Gervaise, the closing act seems particularly thin
now. On Saturday they will bring words of com-
fort to the poor boozer by putting up “It’s Never
too Late to Mend.”
» »
Also the Alexandra contemplates a change.
Mr. Dam pier has made arrangements with Plain
Bill Holloway whereby he is entitled to unfold
the glorious complications of “My Jack,” lately
produced in Sydney with great success, and like-
wise by special arrangement with P.B.H. afore-
said, who would fill a long-felt want by being pro-
duced himself.
* 4- * *-
A large crowd rolled up to the last of Rev.
Ohas. Clark’s lectures at Melbourne Town Hall
on Saturday. When that polished comedian an-
nounced his intention of coming back to the same
palatial barn, presently, a shout of pure delight
mingled with all the oxygen left inside flic struc-
ture. If Mr. Clark has had to deliver some of his
lectures to audiences far smaller than those of
auld lang syne, it is because a generation which
knows not Thackeray and never thinks about
Dickens has grown up since his last visit. What
is Becky Sharp to the football barracker, or
Colonel Newcome to the callow lancl-and-estate
agent ? They want a howling lecture on the late
Henry Searle, illustrated by dissolving views of
his racing-skiff.
H:- it- * iff
Rickards has caught right on, as antici-
pated, at the new Gaiety Hall, while the Cogills
have wisely relapsed into Christy minstrelsy at
St. George. A number of other little shows are
raking in the lambs and keeping the old wolf from
the door.
* * it- *
J. L. Toole, by the way, seems to be
dreadfully dotty on his near fore leg, the result of
rich man’s gout, presumably. So decided is his
limp that a back view of him is reminiscent of
another and a greater Johnnie—Clarke. Not
“ Toodles ” Clarke, the merican, but the Clarke
who married poor pretty Miss Furtado, and was
the real original of Fred. Marshall’s Quilp. The
dead Johnny was never a fashionable, tragical,
comical actor, however. He was just a real genius
and nothing more.
** * *
There have been capital houses at the
Adelaide Royal, where Bland Holt, by the aid of
that highly-seasoned sensationalism, “The Union
•lack,” has been gathering in the glittering dollars
with a heave of genuine satisfaction. The drama
is admirably mounted, and Bland gets-excellent
support from a strong company, including his
amiable wife, Maggie Knight (who is as
yot not quite herself), Nita Steele, Arthur
Lawrence, A. Norman, A. Glover, Roberts, Sea-
grave, and others. Edwin Thorne, as the hero,
•lack, is decidedly over-weighted and altogether
unreal. “Master and Man,” the new piece, will
l)e the next production. At Garner’s Theatre
Cogill Brothers’company, headed by Slade Murray
and the Bonhair Brothers, are having a high time
of it. A good show is presented, and the public
are patronising it.
* *■ * *
How these theatrical people slobber over
one another ! At the last of the Toole banquets
Henry Irving recited some maudlin verse by
Clement Scott, a choice chunk of which we print:
“ farewell ! but not Good-bye ! Remember well,
hough fate may sever, time can still restore !
Ihe Parting Hour has come, its cruel knoll
W ill clash in Welcomes on your friendly shore !
rn oss ’ w^. en we ai '° parted, will be gain
To hearts in hundreds who await to greet
Our King of _Kindliness. White snows of pain
Will melt in flow’rs of friendship at your feet.”
One would think that J.L.T. was going off to dis
cover the North Pole
0 ! Johnny Toole, such butter makes us squirm !
In point of fact, you’re coming out to play
A short engagement with our “leading firm ”
It’s not the first time you have been away
1 rorn London for a stretch of many weeks,
feo, why the dickens should they raise a yell?
No tears will trickle down Australia’s cheeks,
When soon we say Good-bye! and not Farewell
At Poverty Point.
Queen Victoria intends to patronise the Carl Rosa Opera
Company during* the coming* season. Crowded houses
are expected in consequence, though when she engaged a
box in a previous season, large audiences were the ex-
ception.
Such high social pressure was brought to bear that Mrs
Langtry’s apparent success as Rosalind in “ As You Like
MADAME MARIAN BURTON,
(THE EMINENT CONTRALTO).
It,” at the St. James’, was a foregone conclusion. The
Prince and Princess of Wales, the Duchess of Fife, and
other notables were present, and it is said that Mr.
Langtry had a seat in the gallery. Clement Scott gave
the performance a column in the D.T., and said: “ There
were high patches of power in the midst of a somewhat
dull and colourless expanse.” Great Scott !
Toole’s opening piece, “ A Fool and his Money,” at the
Melbourne Princess has been much criticised. It is about
the weakest in his repertoire. Then grand old John
Billington did not appear at all, but was held over till this
week. Too much of the saving policy here. Always
plump down a star with his trump card. Toole ought to
have opened in “ The Don,” “ Cricket on the Hearth,” or
“Paul Pry.” The afterpiece was well enough his good,
"Id “ loi on Parle Francais,” in which he has acted 4000
times.
In the “ Waterloo Panorama and Exhibition of Relics,”
shown at London, may he seen James Davy, in his 96th
year, said to be the only British rank-and-file survivor of
that big butchering job. (According to this, the Austra-
lian Waterloo heroes must all have been colonels.) His
children are all dead and his wife is in Truro workhouse.
The first instrumental performance at a recent “sacred
concert” was a prolonged sneeze in “D,” bv a distin-
guished amateur in the dress-circle. It was "deservedly
encored.
“The Rose of Auvergne,” at Sydney School of Arts, at
rendered by Tilly Salinger and the “Toms,” Gilpin and
Rainford, was a great success. Kate Douglas also gave a
couple of recitations nightly, and many new views of the
world’s most picturesque spots were laid on.
Ellen Terry advises those young theatrical ladies who
aspire to rise in their profession not lo marry. It cer-
tainly does not seem always advisable, nor yet necessary.
In “My Brother’s Sister” Minnie Palmer, who plays
both brother and sister, makes her first entrance as'a
shoeblack by the chimney of a drawing-room It is said
that John K. paid Marsden £lOOO for the piece, whose
chief merit is that it gives the star a big show of airing
every rag in her wardrobe.
It has not hitherto been recorded that when the Mel-
bourne policeman told the bench that stonemason Beattie,
of Nellie-Stewart-following fame, had been enamoured of
the Premier’s daughter, “The Premier’s d-d-d-daugh-ter !”
shrieked the Bench (to whom there was but one Premier
the celibate Gillies), and it was then explained that the
Queensland Premier’s daughter was meant. “Ah I we
were wondering how—-but, no matter,” sighed their
wushups, much relieved. “Good night, my lords, we
understand each other,” said the crank, as he left dis-
charged with a caution. He had seen his judges in the
front row at elevated leg-shows many a time, you bet.
A tattooed girl of 20 is being shown in Paris. The form
of the fair “ Irene ” is decorated from top to toe, likewise
from east to west, with a choice assortment of horticul-
tural and astronomical emblems varied by Buddhist and
Mahomedan precepts and Masonic mottoes.
Falstaffian old Jack Bryan has a good part in “ Bobbery
Under Arms,” and may bo seen of afternoons watering a
nice little g’yarden in Gertrude-street, Fitzroy. They say
Jack, who now lards the lean earth, was once thin as a
lath.
There was some humbugging over the prices at the
Melbourne Princess’ for Toole’s opening night, and one
way and another we fancy Garner does not get on so well
without Jimmy and George. Nobody knew what to pay
for the stalls—7s. 6d., 55., or 3s. The fact seems to be
that Garner had been trying to persuade all the Melbourne
managers to raise prices, but they backed out When the
thing appeared to be in train.
It is said that Letty Lind cost a lately bust-up indivi-
dual £BOOO for jewels.
What first started Charles Clarke lecturing was a
lecture on Pickwick, in his Albert-street Baptist Church,
Melbourne. One of the newspapers gave him a wipe over
the drunken business of Pickwick, when Capt. Boldwig
wheeled him off in the barrow. This caused much talk,
and really seemed to turn Clarke’s attention to lecturing.
The time had at length arrived when, in the opinion o
her manager—and all the world besides, for that matter—
Mile. Mars, the famous Parisian actress, should be oast for
a more elderly part than she had hitherto sustained.
Scribe wrote a comedy specially for her, entitled, “ The
Grandmother,” and read it aloud to the actress.
“ Capital ! ” said the artiste, for whom the part of the
grandmother was intended ; “ of course I shall play the
granddaughter, but who is to take the role of the grand-
mother, which is quite as important ? ”
Says Sydney D.T.: “ Miss Agnes Thomas, after a five
years’ absence in Australia, re-appears shortly in London.
at the Comedy Theatre, in ‘ Corisando,’ a four-act play by
Mr. Henry Hoyte. The dramatist is described as an
‘ Australian actor,’ but the name is not familiar, at any
rate in Sydney.” The D.T.’s memory is a short one. Mr.
Henry Hoyte took the parts of St.' Clair in the Carrie
Swain version of “ Uncle Tom’s Cabin,” and the School-
master Grey in “ The Miner’s Daughter” during the Carrie
Swain season, at Sydney Royal, in ’BB. He was a “mash ”
actor, receiving pink billets-doux naming sentimental
rendezvous (which he never graced) by the" bag-full, and
his memory is kept green in every ladies’ seminary within
a radius of ten miles from Sydney G.P.O.
Garner, failing to stop the performance of “ Paul Jones”
by legal threatenings of the principal artists, invited none
of the crowd to meet “ Johnny ” Toole at lunch on his
arrival.
Should William Rignold play Jacques in the “Two
Orphans” during his stay in the colonies, he might pos-
sibly have his old confrere, George Leitob, associated with
him as Pierre.
The much-travelled Smythe writes to say that he and
none other ran the Finkelstein through the colonies.
Grattan Riggs has been doing big business at Newcastle
with the “ Irish Detective.”
It is said that Toole has earned more money for charit-
able purposes than any living performer.
George Darrell did good Easter business, at Sandhurst,
with “ Potter of Texas” and “ Sunny South,”
Sims Reeves positively retires at the end of this season.
Australia will have him yet.
A hotel-barber made his debut at the G. C. Coffee-Palace
under the management of Henry Bracy, the other night.
This son of Belial and hominy got a twelve months’ en-
gagement.
A Hamburg theatre-manager lately attempted to shut a
critic out whose criticisms were not to his taste. He
failed. They don’t do it that way in Australia. The
variety-show agent usually comes round with a heavy
frown and a big diamond ring to ask you “ What the
you mean?”
The euphemism of a London paper for acting-manager
is “ First Robber."
The chest of Miss Mitchell, sister to Mdme. Melba, who
recently went to Paris to study music, has unfortunately
given way. That’s the worst of travelling, the porters
and deck-bands are so careless with your luggage.
• H :,P‘ Vin °ent’s matinee benefit at the Melbourne Royal
is without doubt far and away the biggest thing ever
seen here in that line, the bill of selections including
foole and company in “ Ici On Parle Francais,” Charles
Warner as the Silver King, supported by Garner and
Vincent ; Nellie Stewart, Marion Burton, Snazelle, and the
Opera Company in “ Paul Jones ” ; Brough and Bouci-
oault s Bijou Company in “ Money ” ; the Alexandra Com-
pany, with Dampier in “Robbery under Arms,” besides
Harry Rickards, the Cogills, Professor Miller, General
Mite, &c.
Music-hall singer Macdermott, of “They all do it”
celebrity, writes to a London paper that; “ During the
whole of the twenty-four years he has been in what he
terms ‘ the art,’ he has never met, an audience that could
not take care of itself. He has never witnessed anything
wrong ; or, if there was anything that could be construed
into having a tendency that way, it was promptly resented.
Anything vulgar on the music-hall stage, he declares, is
thoroughly well hissed. The only people who enjoy
double entendre are men whose morality can never in l
undermined by hearing it.”
Charlotte Cushman and Lawrence Barrett were once
leaving the theatre when the steps were covered with ice.
baid she : Hold tight to my arm, Larry. If I slip, hang
on like grim death ; hut if you slip, in the name of heaven,
let go.” This, by the way, often seems to he lovely
woman s view of the marriage contract.
The Holloway-Howe crowd are doing well at Ballarat.
The 12 chief theatres in Paris averaged £242 per night
each during ’B9, Exhibition year.
It is said that good, moral old P. T. Banmiu has im-
ported 500 English and French ballet-girls into America.
Says the N.Y. Mirror ; “’Tis true, tis P.X. and P.T. ’tis
’tis true.”
“Texas Jack,” a most picturesque figure, has not been
altogether a success in Sydney as a rough-rider. The
space devoted to his exhibition is much too small and the
class of “buckers” with whom Jack has had to contend
has been very inferior. He now rides with ease the bull
t hat threw him at his first performance.
It is said that Janet Aohurch Oharrlngton’s condition
will prevent her playing for some time. Here’s babv’s
health.
A shocking thing—Sara Bernhardt’s latest rdle. The
Virgin ! It reminds us of the nice, moral old politician,
who tells the little State-school boys to be virtuous and
they will he happy.
Mapioson intends to take an Italian Opera Company
to America.
Sir Charles Halle’s nephew, it is said, is running a
“financial establishment” in Sydney. Hereditary talent
seeking a different outlet for expression.
There are to be legal proceedings at Melbourne Royal in
regard to the fact that Violet Ashton (Baby Nichols) of
the Theatre Royal, is alleged to be too young to act;
another prosecution is on against the -kid* in “Robbery
Under Arras.” But goodness knows how long Baby Nichols
has been acting. She made up for Sir Henry Parkes as
the Old Man of the Sea, in the Royal Pantomime, 1880,
and was one of the children with Miss Achureh, ' - “ A
Doll’s House.”
Albert Brennir died of consumption.
Florence St. John asserts that she reduced herself irom
lost, to lOst. 41b. simply by walking a great deal and
going almost entirely without liquids at any lime. She
goes on to say that she dislikes grease-paint. She first
lays on a coat of ertsme iraperatrice, over that bismuth,
wnicli costs £2 a bottle ; she then puts the rouge on the
cheeks, a tiny spot of red in the corner of the eyes and
blue lines beneath. She never “ makes-up” the lips at
ail, rightly considering that the expression of the* face
depends very much on the mouth. If used dry, bismuth
gleams like white marble ; when used moist, the effect is
white. She removes her “make-up” with cold cream
and a wash of boraxed and camphored water.
Un the occasion of the last failure but two at London
Her Majesty’s a band of supers and chorus-singers, finding
the theatre was about to close, clamoured during the
performance for their money, and at last made a direct
appeal to the audience, who threw them coppers, which
w“re scrambled for on the stage. - ~
Timothy Parker, “a rude mechanical” who for years
has been worrying stage-managers to give him a show, and
who, some time ago, challenged Geo. C. Miln, in the
columns of a Sunday paper, to “act, recite or fence,” is
the most unconsciously funny performer we ever en-
countered, and had those associated with him in the pro-
duction of “ Macbeth,” at Sydney Standard, entered into
the immediate spirit of the play, no burlesque ever
staged would have been so hideously amusing. Timothy’s
dress was a compromise between that of an Italian
pifferari and the costume of a snuff-shop Highlander,
his lower jaw was apparently tied on with a piece
of uncertain flannel by way of heard, and he walked
the stage with the wobbly, niggling step of a horse-
couper. His enunciation on this'occasion was like that of
one half-hanged, so that at least one-half his lines never
reached his audience ; in fact, his asides and confidential
speeches—the latter spoken with the mysterious whisper
of a turf-prophet who is giving the straight tip-were
altogether inaudible As for his pronunciation—well, we
decline to say anything about it. When this aspirant to
stage honours would simulate reflection, he places a dusk v
linger on his sable brow and looks at with goggling
eye-balls; would he be impressive he holds tip a
timid finger as does the inky but ready school-
boy ; irresolution he expressses by rocking on his
feet like a nursing mother; in long speeches he see-
saws with both arms from the ears outward as if to
mesmerise the orchestra (who appropriately accompanied
his performance with circus music), and bows with the
grace of a duck who is drinking. “ Tim ” never had “ n
property ” when one was required ; he emerged from the.
murdered Duncan’s chamber daggerless, and in the “ Is
this a dagger?” speech groped as vainly for an
edged weapon as we did for an “H ” in his sen
tences. The combat-scene was a howl from start
to finish. At first “Tim” scratched gravel
round Macduff - Miln like a feather - legged rooster
about the hen of his heart, then getting excited he
shuflied round him at express speed, as children do in
“jingo-ring,” scooping wildly into vacancy, with a weapon
that rarely clashed with Macduff’s claymore, until without
being “killed,” perfectly exhausted, he toppled over as
gracefully as a skittle-pin, and, after kicking up his lieels
like a working horse turned out on a Sunday, “died.’
amid Homeric peals of laughter from even the six hundred
friends who throughout had applauded him most loyally.
Then “ Tim,’ who has a premature way of taking “ calls,”
before they are given, came before the curtain holding his
tin-helmet out for applause, as do blind men their hats
for coppers. He got it. Timothy Parker, a railway
is without doubt one of the worst performers,
we have seen don sock and buskin. It is said that he
meditates going on the stage professionally ; now, one good
workman is worth 50 bad actors, and Bs. a day earned
cleaning lamps or working switches is better in even
way than five bob a night won by carrying stage-banners
and yelling “ Hooray” in concert with other stage-struck
incapahles. We trust that Parker will take the hint con-
veyed in this epistle to Timothy.
FOR LA GRIPPE (INFLUENZA)
And all colds and bronchial affections the best
remedy is Bosisto’s Original Eucalyptus Oil. In-
ferior oils are bottled to resemble Bosisto’s.
Buyers should see that they get Bosisto’s oil, with
registered “ Parrot 51 brand on yellow label across
the cork. Accept no other, and avoid disappoint
raent.
Old-fashioned Jewellery modernised to perfection. De-
signs free. Dahms and Co., King-street Arcade.
“That low, nervous fever, want of sleep and
weakness, calls for Dr. Soule’s American Hop
Bitters. ”
Write for plans £10 Building sites, Perth,
Western Australia. Intercolonial Investment
Company, Limited, 96 Bathurst street, Sydney,
Reliable Watch Repairs. Baums & Co., King-st. Arcade,
A BOON TO HUMANITY.
Tis food for young and food for old,
It gives new life and vital power,
There’s nothing in the market sold
Like Pembu/8 patent Snow-white Pnom.


WOE.
.£l2OO a year given away in Ml Orders
I s superseding - *\ll other spirits.
Ambidextrous men are the exception. The
nails of the right hand can be trimmed as easily
as the left, hy the use of McDonald’s Nail Trimmer,
All chemists, Price one shilling.
The Last of Six.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
Perhaps ho more desolate, depressing scenery can
je found anywhere in the world than on the man-
grove-flats of Northern Queensland. As you row
slowly up some saltwater creek, nothing is visible
m either side but low banks of oozy mud, awash
at high-tide, covered with writhing and distorted
trees? Like Amyas Leigh, one expects to meet at
■very turn a crew of skeletons gliding along with
Satan at the helm. Now and again a branch
creek breaks the monotony of the scrub, for the
shore is here a perfect labyrinth and network of
watercourses, whilst the only living occupants
visible are armies of hideous crabs, or an occa-
sional evil-looking alligator, who noiselessly glides
off the mud into deep water as your boat ap-
proaches.
Bv day it. is dismal enough ; by night it is w orse.
The venomous mosquitoes buzz about you in
myriads, strange sounds and cries resound through
th',.- twisted roots of the trees left bare by the
receding tide ; and, as the night wears on,- a white
mist, cold and dank, breathes deathly clamminess
over all.
It was just sunrise in this delectable region.
The rays had even gilded the sombre upper
branches of the mangroves with a sparkle of golden
colour, although as yet the sullen mist was still
rising iu white wreaths from the bosom of the
sluggish tide. Anchored in mid-stream was a
small boat, apparently without occupants, but
presently the sail that in a tumbled heap had
been lying on the bottom, was disturbed and a
sleepy man emerged from beneath its shelter-; as
lie stood up, another threw the sail back and got
up too. They were both towzled, dirty, and look-
ing about as cross-grained as men might be ex-
pected to do who had passed a cramped night in
the bottom of a boat, with millions of mosquitoes
thirsting for their blood—and getting it.
“No wind I " said the first; “ pull again, I sup-
pose, until about ten o'clock!" And he stepped
forward and commenced to haul up the heavy
stone that served as an anchor.
“I suppose so; ” returned the other; “tide
against us too, but I think it s just on the turn
and lie settled himself down on the after-thwart
and prepared to put out an oar.
“My <»od ! he's coming back 1" cried the first
and eldest man, dropping the stone he had just
hauled up into the bottom <>f the boat. The other
sprung up and gazed stupidly at the object indi-
cated. that, carried down by the still-receding
tide, passed slowly within an oar's length o) the
iVwas the dead body of a man ; the shoulders
and the back of the head were alone visible, but
the horror of it was unmistakeable —it needed no
two glances to tell its character.
“Bull, ' suddenly cried the younger, dropping
on his seat, his voice rising to a shriek ; “ he’s
coming on board 1 Released from her anchorage
the boat had started to voyage down stream in
com pan v with the dead man. A few' desperate
strokes put them away from the corpse, and then
they rested on their oars and gazed at each other
with the sweat of fear upc n their faces.
• The very alligators won't touch him, mur-
mured the younger man at last : “let s get out of
this. Tin iiot fit for anything after yesterday.
They pulled a few strokes in silence, then the
elder man spoke. “ Let’s get back to camp before
we do anything. I’m like you, done up alto-
gether. We’ll turn down this creek and then we
shan't have to pass him again.” And he indicated
the direction of the corpse.
The boat was headed down a branch creek, and
now went with the tide aided by a few lazy strokes
from the men, who silently kept on their course.
In about an hour’s time jhe creek widened out
and the sound of surf was audible ; then suddenly
they shot out from tie* gloomy, reeking mangrove
swam]} into sight of the ocean, and a fresh sea
breeze came with a puff in their faces, as if to
welcome their return.
“ We're dose to the camp,” said the elder man
as they rested on their oars ; “ wo might have got
here last night instead of catching fever and ague
in that accursed place.”
“There’s so many of these creeks,” returned
the other; “we could not have made sure in the
dark. However, let’s land and go across the spit.”
Bulling the boat well up the sand and making her
fast with a long painter to a straggling mangrove
tree, they stepped ashore. After taking the sail
out and spreading it to dry on the sand they
shouldered their oars and ascended the low spit.
Before them, within a short half-mile lay a semi-
circular bay, protected by a sand-bank, on which
the long surf rollers were breaking white. Within
shelter of the hank lay a small lugger, and on the
beach above high water-mark, were rough sheds,
and frame erections indicating that it was a herht-
<!<-iiirr station.
As the two men approached the camp, a woman
came out to meet them ; a few aborigines and
a kanaka or two were also visible. The woman
who advanced was dark in complexion with wild
black eyes and hair. She was rudely dressed and
barefooted ; there was an air of semi-madness
about her that was startling yet fascinating ; there
was such a world of horror in her eyes !
“ Well," she said in fairly good English, “you
found them ? ”
“ One of them,” said the elder man. “and when
we've had a feed we ll go back and look for the
other.”
“One of them!" cried the woman; “which;
which
“ The one you call Alphonse—the big one.
“Oli!” shrieked the woman, “where is he?
Why is he not hero ?”
“ Why, he's in that creek out there, and there
he can stop for me, after what you told us he’s not
fit to be buried.”
“ Dead ! ” she returned in an awestruck whisper.
“ But no ! the devil cannot die.”
“ Devil or not, he’s dead ; he’s dead enough,
and nearly turned our stomachs this morning, for
his ugly carcase came drifting right on top of us
after we thought he went out to sea yesterday.”
“Now, missus,” said the other, “suppose you
let us get something to eat, for it was nigh this
time yesterday when we started.”
“ You have brought good news,” said the
woman, “ the devil is dead, I will wait on you
and she hastened to the rude cooking-place and
soon returned with food and tea.
The meal finished, the two men lit their pipes,
the woman watched them anxiously. .
“You will go again?” she said at last, timidly.
One man looked at the other, and then the elder
spoke—
“ Well, we’ll have another hunt, but I warn you
there’s little hope.” ,
“No matter,” she said, “but let me go with
you.” .
“I suppose it’s not much odds, ’ returned the
man. “Come, Jim, the tide’s turned now. I hey
shouldered the oars and, followed by the woman,
walked back to the boat. The tide was at about
the same height as when they landed, only now it
was flowing. Stepping in, they pushed off, and
were soon once more amongst the mangroves.
The two trepang-fishers had picked up a leaky
boat with a starving crew, a strange crew -two
men and a woman escapees from New Cale-
donia. They brought them to the station and fed
them. When the men revived they considered
the position. The Ushers bad no intention of
handing them over to justice—or let us cad it
law ; the affair was no business of theirs; lint
if they took them in to Cooktown their
capture would be certain. Then the refugees
organised a plan. The two men would take their
boat and pull up one of the salt-water creeks to
the open country ; here they would sink the boat,
and make their way as best they could through
the bush till they dropped across some of the out-
lying stations. The woman, who spoke good
English, could go with the fishermen to Oooktown
and take her chance ; it was impossible she could
stand the hardship of a bush tramp* • To this-plan
the woman vehemently objected, and begged the
man she called her husband not to go. Apparently
he consented, but during the night the two men
slipped away, and in the morning the woman
found herself deserted. Then followed a scene of
wild lamentation, during which the horrified
Englishmen learnt some of the ghastly details of
««
W< L L y c u
j f ke. 4 i
W A v-'-Tn, c*. O + o
) be" ~
ConSfe-4-jt
oe
Whor’d your- r^oflye^^■ rfh
V 7 ! <z\ Orl or\
*' a Cs> reen^
A) T PLtA^
that voyage from New Caledonia—horrors that
made them shudder and vow that if one of the
men ever turned up he should be delivered over
to justice. With frantic passion the woman ap-
pealed to them to go after the two fugitives and
p-rsuade her husband to return; for she said the
other man had an old and evil grudge against
him, and had only lured him away to Ins death.
(ivercome by her entreaties, the two men started
and found the body of one man floating m the
mangrove creek ; of the other they could see
nothing, and, returning, were benighted.
Arrived at the spot where the two creeks junc-
tioned, the boat, with the woman in the stern, was
headed up stream with the tide, and they pulled
quietly between the dreary grove of trees.
“ Have you been up there? she said suddenly,
pointing to an opening on the righ".
<• Xo,” sail! oneof them, and they turned up the
branch. , . , ~ . ~ T ,
•• There it is," she exclaimed quickly, I knew
it, I felt it.’’ , x, t •i,
Sure enough there was the 3' renchmen s boat
just ahead of them, ashore on a small open space,
just a chance patch of clear ground. 1 hey pulled
up to her, but the dead body of the second man
was visible before they got there. The woman
was quite calm, and stood by while the men
examined the corpse. The man had been stabbed
in the side and had bled to death, for a hideous
stain was in the old boat.
“How did Pierre kill him?” she muttered to
herself in French. “ Ah, I know he was stabbed
from behind, then he turned and knocked the
devil overboard. Then he fell and died.
“ You will take him back and bury him, she
Haiti, iu n sad, almost sweet voice. See, it wd
be no trouble : just tow the boat; and she ind -
ented her meaning with a wave of the hand, the
she took her seat in the boat with her dead, the
men having thrown the sail over it, and so t u y
started back. . u v
Arrived at the junction she spoke again. ’
will wait, will you not? He will come bac.v, jKa
haps, I must see myself that the devil is dead.
The men looked at each other, and then, wi -1 <
few strokes of their oars kept the boat motionless
in the tideway. . . , ..
“ He comes !” said the awfully quiet voice of the
woman, and with indescribable horror the men saw
the now bloated corpse come up the stream once
As'if influenced by some terrible attraction m
the glaring eyes of the woman, the hideous thing
a o](reached the side of the boat where she sal.
She rose to her feet, iu her hand one of the oars.
“ bog ! devil!” she cried, dashing it into the race
of the corpse. “O you, who ate my child before
my eyes. You ! who lived on man s flesh to save
your life—you who have assassinated my husband.
Wolf! what are you now? Dead, dead . And
von who ate others shall be eaten by the foul
tilings of this place!” At every epithet she
spurned the corpse with the oar until with a
hideous, life-like action it slowly turned over and
disappeared. , , , . ~.
The spell-bound men who had not understood a
word of what she said, for she spoke in I* rench,
now started into action and called to her to sit
down. She obeyed ; and hastening to leave the
awful scene the two men, their hearts in their
throats, were soon back at the mouth of tiie
creek.
They buried the wretched man, and next morn-
in" the lugger hoisted sail for Cooktown having
on board the, only survivor of the party of six who
escaped trom .New uaieaoma.
DELCOMYN.
The other day the s.s. Fastnet left Ran-
goon, and while the engineers were at mess they
complained to their steward (a Malay) of then
food. By way of reply the man ran amok,
stabbed the second engineer to death and seriously
wounded the chief. Then he went overboard.
We now have lots of these fellows in Australia,
and are told that they are mild and gentle.
The daily N.Z. papers have been much
affected over the departure of clergyman Hill.
They say that at his farewell sermon to the
prisoners in Mount Eden gaol “strong men
sobbed!” The local Ekkk Lanok says: Ao
wonder they cried because they couldn’t go with
him.”
.John R. Topliss, first secretary <>f the
Victorian Reporters’ Association, has exchanged
from Melbourne Herald to Sydney Daily Iki.e-
(tKaph, and it is hoped that, through him, the
N.S.W. Association will soon be run on Victorian
lines. Some important reforms await the federa-
tion of the intercolonial press. Harry .Tones, of
Melbourne Herald, is the new secretary.
The President of Harvard University re-
cently accused the Bostonian reporters of being
bummers, and, generally, men of no account, the
foundation of the charge being apparently the
fact that four men expelled from the University
had found employment on the press. The Boston
papers retorted that as one Harvard professor had
been hanged for murder and another had been
kicked out of his office for unmentionable prac-
tices, they were justified in pronouncing the Har-
vard President a murderer and a —Lord Arthur
Somerset!
“No Protestant’' writes :
While so many monkeries and nunneries are being
planted in Australia, bear in mind how they have been
rooted out of Italy and Spain, Here is a mischief of free
countries, like Australia and America. Tell you what, the
conventual places will have to be torn down out here too.
Tiie general public has no idea bow they have been smashed
in 11 aI v and Spain. Pope Pins IX. is reported to have said
that it had worked for good, though the devil did it. In
Italy the monastic and conventual property confiscated
by Government has totted up to over thirty millions
sterling. I groan, 1 groan indeed, over (he importations
of the brothers an I sisters of Saint Everything by every
mail-steamer.
Major-General Tullocli, C. 8., says the
Victorian soldier is “too brave and disdains
cover.” Trust a swaddy for knowing when the
“ ]>ot ”is “ blank ”or “ prime.” Here’s luck.
In Brisbane Supreme Court lately a crimi -
nal was sentenced to three years’ gaol. On his
removal the Crown Prosecutor pointed out that
the lowest sentence that could be imposed in t hat
particular case was ten years with hard laboiu.
The prisoner having been brought back the judge
informed him of the error and fixed the limit, but
added, for the comfort of the astounded man, that
the Executive could make it three years if they
pleased. Which recalls an incident before a
N.S. Wales Supreme Court Judge of, political
tendencies (now dead, the judge as well as the
tendencies). A. well-known parliamentary agent,
before, him for “inciting to personation,” was
found guilty and was sentenced to two } cars
without hard labour. The Crown Prosecutor and
the defendant’s attorney, both politicians, bided
their time—they were not in a hurry, like the
Brisbane man. When the sittings had closed an
appeal was made to a Judge in Chambers for the
usual rule, on the grounds that the judge had no
power to order any sentence but with hard labour.
The culprit was admitted to bail, the political
attorney being his bondsman, the case was heaid
before the Full Court, and two out of the three
judges then sitting (all were politicians) held the
judge in error, upset the sentence and discharged
the prisoner. The parties to this little transaction
are now dead.
The Men who Miss the Train.
I loaf arouu’ the deepo jest to see the Pullman
scoot, .
An’ to see the people scamper w’en they hear tin
ingine toot;
But w’at makei the most repression on my
Kom’w’at active brain,
Is the careless men who get there jest in time to
miss 'the train.
An’ some cuss the railroad comp’ny an’ some
loudly cuss their stars,
An’ some jest gallop down the track an’ try to
catch the cars ; .
An’ some with a loud laff an joke will pointer 1 up
their pain; .
Vav’ns kin's er people get there jest in time to
miss t he train.
An’ there is many deopos an’ flag-stations ithout
name,
Along the Grand Trunk Railroad that leads to
wealth and fame,
An’ men rush to these deepos as fast as they can
fly, , , • ■
As the Train of Opportunity jest goes a-thnnderm
by.
They rush down to the stations, wit h their hair all.
stood on end, ,
As the platform of the tail-end car goes whirl in
roun’ the bend ;
An’ some men groan an’ cry aloud, au’ some con-
ceal their pain,
W’en they find that they have got there jest m
time to miss the train.
But the cars puff through the valleys, an go a-
whirlin’ by, , ... „ ,
An’ float their banners of wite smoke like flags ot
victory ;
They leap the flowin’ rivers an’ through the tunnels
grope, . , m. i
An’cross the Mountains of Despair to the table-
land of Hope.
The Grand Trunk Railroad of Success, it runs
through every clime,
But the Cars of Opportunity they go on schedule
time, .
An’ never are their brakes reversed ; they won t
back up again, .
To take the men who get there just in time to miss
t l '" train.
YANKEE BLADE.
“That Terrible Grip.”
WHAT IT REALLY IS.
The president of the New York Medical College
' a o La Grippe, or the Unssian Influenza, about
which so much talk has lately been heard, is a
much more serious affliction than most people
imagine. It arises mysteriously and appears to
have its origin in the atmosphere. The last time
it visited America was in 1803, and it came then,
as now, from Asia. The name ‘lnfluenza,’ comes
from the suggestion that the malady was due to
the ‘ influences ’ of the heavenly bodies ; but more
modern science has discovered that it is due to i ie
changes in electrical conditions. Whatever may
be the cause, one of the principal signs is strong
congestion of the blood vessels and mucous mem-
brane, principally in the head and throat, and
nothing but strong stimulating restorative treatment
will check this congestion and keep the blood
actively circulating.”
La Grippe is specially liable to lead to pneu-
monia or inflammation and congestion of the
lungs ; this is very dangerous, and though tne
beginning may be slight the after ravages ot the
disease may be terrible indeed. Beware of any
pains in the limbs, head, back and chest, sore
throat and defective appetite, and discharges from
the nose and throat; upon the slightest approacn
of any such symptoms treatment should commence
at once and recourse be had to it good tome
restorative—say Clkmknts Tonic. We know we
are recommending a good remedy in mentioning
this article, for independent of any statements its
proprietors may make, Clements fomolias proved
itself (by the cures it has effected) the greatest
blessing' as a medicine ever vouchsafed to ti e
world. There are many imitations of this valuable
remedy, but as they are nearly all alcoholic
solutions the stimulating effects only last whilst
they are being used, whereas a system that mu
been revitalized-as it were-strengthened and
invigorated by a proper course of GlemeNls .1 cNi_
retains its vigor and immunity from disease for
years. This will explain how necessary it is tuat
the afflicted get the genuine Clements I°nic.
is to be hoped La Grippe will not have a. veiy
good time here, but as the winter with its imto
ing (to the respiratory tract) influences is approacn
in", people cannot be too careful in being piepai _
fur the worst. “La Grippe " causes some amusing
mistakes, a gentleman m conversation with t
writer a few days ago, in complaining of haymg
cold in the head observed. “ 1 hope 1 am
going to have the La Grippe ’ n.
Full particulars and endorsements _on appu
cation to F. M. Clements Newtown, N>.W., o
at Melbourne, George and George ; fttAdelai ,
F. H. Faulding and Co. ; at Wellington ( • |
Kempthorne, Grosser and Co,; at 1 lob^’ u In
-Launceston, L. U'airthovne and Sons, an
dealers everywhere.


"v
ing(Bo
JM
m
IUROI \Pr. iND^g
I .Set*
9 MEWED t
ssly
PORT I
ro.
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
BUGGIES, BUCKBOARDS,
—AND—
T7-ICTORIA.S,
At MANUFACTURERS’ PRICES
Send for Catalogues and Prices to
THE F. B. WHEELER CO,.
265 Clai’ence Sti'eet, SYDNEY.
Personal Items.
Victor Daley has achieved the influenza.
Old Coppin enjoyed his 71st birthday at
Sorrento last week.
Mrs. Brown-Potter is like Sara Bernhardt
about the wrists.
The late John Jacob Astor, of New York,
had an income of a million sterling a year.
The late David Buchanan boasted that he
never spent a copper on an election in his life.
There is not and never yet has been a
licensed publican in the N.S.W. Upper House.
Three more “ Cleveland-street scandal ”
gentlemen arrived by one of the boats last week.
Sergeant Steele, of Kelly gang fame, brings
Allpress, the absconding bank-clerk, back to Aus-
tralia.
Gladstone received £24 a page for bis
article in the North American Review on Free-
trade.
The Bulletin awaits Sir George Grey s
biography of the late Marquis of Normanby, if
you please.
Bradlaugh’s influence with the masses will
soon be gone. He is getting fat. Soon he will be
respectable.
Parkes was presented with a silver spade
at Broken-hill. They didn’t like to insult him by
calling it a “shovel.”
G. H. Cargeeg, one of the wealthiest and
smartest of Adelaide brokers, was at one time a
poor pressman in that city.
The Mayor of Collingwood (Vic.) is 28
years of age, and has just recovered from a bad
attack of the whooping-cough.
Mr. E. J. R. Farr, of the N.S.W.
“ Mines,” who is retiring under the 60-years’regu-
ation, is a brother of Farr, the English historian.
Ex-Governor Hercules Robinson in a letter
to Folingsby, the artist, thinks ins “ final summons
will come in another 10 years.” Sir Hercules is
now 66.
Horace Baker, once connected with the
Picturesque Atlas of Australia, describes “ The
Black Fellow and his Boomerang ” in the March
Scribner’s.
Gosclien is not a Jew, nor even one by
descent. This is a recent and authoritative declar-
ation. Well, our comment is that he wouldn’t
disgrace the race.
Dr. Cockburn, the S.A. Premier, is only
40 years old, and has been a colonist for 15 years.
As a doctor he was a success —as a politician he is
“no great shakes.”
The last of Gardiner’s gang of highwaymen
at the Eugowra Rocks, who saved himself by
turning Queen's evidence, now lives a quiet life on
a N.S.W. selection.
Millionaire Tyson was 67 years old on the
10th mst., and presented himselt with a new clay
pipe as a birthday gift. James is getting extrava-
gant as he gets older.
Govetb, the new proprietor of the Silver
Age, was a sub-editor on the S.A. Advertiser.
He is great on mining, and at the same time a
smart, practical journalist.
The Czar always does his railway travel-
ling in a train comprising several saloon carriages
exactly alike, so that the odds are long against
guessing which one he is in.
Mrs. Maud Booth, of the Salvation Army,
smokes cigarettes made by Array girls. Each has
on it a painted spray of maiden-hair fern and a
text of Scripture. More humbug.
“Sammy” Beddome, for forty-live years
Adelaide police-magistrate, has lost his son by
suicide, and will probably now resign. J. C.
Ferguson is likely to be his successor.
After all, the Romanoffs have no particular
title to the Czardom of Russia. About three
centuries ago the throne fell vacant, and it was
bestowed on Romanoff, the chief priest.
At Juggins Benzon’s trial the prisoner’s
French counsel quoted the nick-name of “Jubilee
J uggins ” as a proof of the popular affection with
which Benzou was regarded in Hingland !
When Sir William Robinson was Governor
of S. Australia he was initiated into the mysteries
of the bicycle, but he feared ridicule and would
never venture outside of Government House.
The latest American senator is Mr. Robert
Howard. From which we infer that, disgusted
with the slackness of business, the N.S.W. hang-
man lias sought fresh fields and pastures new.
Says an American writer, referring to Mr.
and Mrs. Gladstone :
Probably history has nothing to equal the marvellous
combination of health, vitality and the increasing activity
possessed ny this aged and remarkable couple.
Forger Pigott, when he made the now
notorious confession to Sala and Labouchere, was
drunk —a circumstance which, while it doesn’t dis-
credit his confession, probably explains why it was
made.
B. R. Wise, it is said, dedicates to Gov
Carington his forthcoming book (to be published
by Macmillan) on Australian economic questions.
Which reminds us that both Mark Twain and
Artemus Ward inscribed books of theirs to the
Smiths.
Mr. G. H. Taylor, of Melbourne, presided
this year at the Welsh Eisteddfod. What was
Mr. Taylor’s special qualification for that high
distinction ? Mr. Taylor has lots of land-boom
“ sugar,” and that’s what’s worshipped in the land
of Taffy.
Dr. Edward Parry, C.E. Bishop of Dover,
just dead, was a native of N.S.W., having been
born at Government House, Parramatta, during
the Governorship of Ralph Darling. His father,
the Arctic explorer, was the manager of the A. A.
Company’s property.
Eugene Field writes from London to the
Chicago Daily News : “ Publishers here say that
American type is the best in the world. ‘ Give
us American type, English paper and ink, and
French presswork, and we will produce marvels in
bookmaking,’ they say.”
“Brigand” Stanley is indignant that
sportsmen should kill the big game on the banks
of the Congo, whose existence he considers neces-
sary to the success of his pseudo-exploring expedi-
tion. He says in effect : “If you want sport iu
Africa why don’t you shoot niggers as I do ?”
When Salomons,. Q.C., recently stated
that “ Papal infallibility has taught the doctrine
that interest is usury ” he laid himself open to a
nasty cross-counter. it is populaily supposed
that a whole lot of people of Mr. Salomons’ per-
suasion observe the doctrine that usury is interest.
The lock of Ned Kelly’s gun, recovered
from the tiro at Glenrowan Hotel, wherein three
of the famous gang of outlaws peiished, now does
duty as a door-jam in a Wang.ir.itta store. <lien-
rowan police-barracks occupy the site of Mrs.
Jones’ hotel, which was burnt with three of the
Kelly gang inside.
Norman by, whom we all knew as an old
man,, was once a gay young bird. He was an
enthusiastic amateur theatrical-and a great
friend, by the way, of Dickens. They acted
together, at Government House, Canada, in the
play of “A Roland for an Oliver.” Mrs. Dickens
also acted in the piece.
John Boyle O’Reilly, the Fenian poet who
gave the Western Australian authorities leg-bail
a score of years ago, and is now editor of the Boston
(U.S.) Pilot, calls Captain O’Shea “a fangless
adder,” and says when the divorce-suit comes it
will be found that O Shea has bartered his wife’s
honour for a Tory bribe,
Bailliere’s “Memorials of New Caledonia,”
just out from Parts, embalm the experiences of an
CONFIDENCE AND COIN.
“DO YOU THINK YOU HAVE GOT SUFFICIENT CONFIDENCE IN ME TO
LEND ME A SOV.?”
OH! YES OLD MAN; I’VE ALL THE CONFIDENCE, BUT NOT THE SOV.”
escapee, and bring to mind those of Rochefort.
Rochefort escaped in a barque called the P.C.E.,
which letters stood for Peace, Comfort, Ease. He
first heard the music of “ Madame Angot ’ as he
listened outside a window in Newcastle, N.S.M ~
where a young lady was playing it on a piano.
It is generally believed that the late David
Buchanan, popular as lie was in the criminal divi-
sion, never appeared in a Supreme Court civil
case but once, and that before Sir Janies Martin.
It was a question of title, and David was badly
mixed over it till Sir James, with a smile, took
the whole, thing out of his hands, put it straight
before the jury, and won the case for him.
It is said that out of the very few appoint-
ments made by Gladstone in response to the
numerous applications for places received by him,
one was obtained by the applicant's narration of
how, as he stood with a crowd of others outside
the shop of an undertaker who had advertised for
an assistant, one strect-arab said to another ;
“Lor! Billy, wot a lot of porpers waitin’ to be
measured for their coffins !
The Bulletin said that Stanley went after
vory alone, and now you will believe it, the
ipse dixit of Emin Pacha. Here is poor Emin
torn out of the heart of Africa, in order that
Stanley may do a bit of bookmaking to the tune of
£40,000, not to mention the ivory. “ I don’t want
to go,” says Schnitzler. “Oh I but you must,”
says Stanley. “Hang it all, I’ll lift you up and
carry you. Great Heavens ! what will the people
say if I come out without you ? ”
Lies are immortal. An Argus contributor,
iu an account of a visit to Maria Island, whose
history conclusively proves that it is quite un-
necessary to locate hell in the next world, resurj
roots once more the oft-killed falsehood that Smith
O’Brien, of ’4B celebrity, attempted to escape when
in Tasmania, but was re-captured under ignomi-
nious circumstances. O’Brien never tried to
escape, but it would have been no disgrace if he
had, inasmuch as he was the only one of the State
prisoners who declined to give h:< parole.
POLITICAL POINTS
Germany only owes 72 millions, about one-
tenth of the British national debt
Park os hopes to go to Broken-hill 25 years
hence. “ Broken-hill” is a new name for it.
The Victorian branch of the Australian
Natives’ Association has resolved itself into “God
bless dear old Hingland 1”
The Archbishop of Canterbury recom-
mends the clergy to study the works of George,
Russell Wallace, and Bellamy on social questions.
An earnest member of the A.N.A., of
Victoria, is desirous of giving every adult male
autocthon of Australia a vote for Parliament.
Badgered
It was recently said by Lord Derby that
you may trust the owner of 5 or 10 acres to defend
the rights of property as effectively as if lie owned
1000 or 10,000.
Reading between the lines, the British
Tory party seems to be consumed with anxiety as
to Salisbury’s health. He is suffering from
Bright’s disease, and his condition is really serious.
The Queensland Postmaster-General de-
clines to give his reasons for declining to allow the
local Freethinking Stockwhip to be registered for
free transmission through the post. From which
it is plain that the Postmaster-General's reasons
are unstateable prejudices.
When Bunco Smith, at a military dinner
the other day, said he hoped soon to see a review
of the troops of United Australia, old Jack
Robertson called “halt!” Jack is not only halt
he is blind.
English Hansard has adopted from the
beginning of the current session of Parliament
the practice of printing at the end of the report
of every sp awh, the length of time consumed in
its delivery.
February North American Review con-
tains a rather ponderous reply to Gladstone’s Free-
trade article from Senator Morrill, who framed
the “Morrill tariff” —which substantially forms
the U.S. Protective system.
The national debt of Queensland is £63
11s. Id. per head of the population ; N.Z., £‘63 7s.
Id. ; S.A., £6O 7s. Bd. ; N.S.W., £39 6s. 2d. ; and
Victoria, £3l 19s. s<l. So that Victoria, whose
public works arc splendidly reproductive, owes
less per head than any other Australian province.
Frank Cotton, Single-taxer and defeated
Freetrado candidate for Forbes, took his seat at
the N.S.W. Trades and Labour Council t’other
night as a delegate of the Wagga shearers. By
no means a bad device to gain a hearing for the
Georgite shearer in the cars of Labour. And the
Unionists arc strong up Forbes way.
In an editorial the Denver Republican
says :
One result of Henry George’s lectures will be to con-
vince all who hear him that until t hat remote period when
his plan may possibly bo adopted, the very best way to
acquire wealth w ill bo to buy real estate in a growing
city. Look out for an immediate advance in the price of
corner lots.
A Melbourne deputation has waited on
Chief Secretary Deakin asking him to put
down opium. What would become of “our”
Indian Empire ? Don’t we force Indian opium on
China at the bayonet point ? Bible in one hand,
opium in the other. You may please yourself
about the Scripture, but, by Heaven, you must
cake the opium.
When a Congressman does nothing but sit
at his desk and endeavour to disguise his natural
fatuity of countenance by an artificial aspect of
owl - like wisdom, Amurkan reporters refer to
him as “ holding down his chair.” The enlarge-
ment of The Bulletin would be necessary if
we would record the names and legislatures of
Australian parliamentarians who do nothing but
hold down their chairs.
An Irishman and his wife have been
awarded three and two months’ imprisonment
respectively for their vocalisation in a song, of
which w T e give the chorus :
Arrah, alanna, don’t be crying though I am far away
From the cottage where you reared me up and where I
used to play.
Better times are shortly coming to alleviate our woe,
And we’ll all embark for Ireland when the landlords go.
In the olden and golden Victorian days,
the Arous was Radical, and Edward Wilson
wasn’t rich. Wilson kept for many months a
standing advertisement in his paper :
Wanted, a Governor!
Which went far to smash, mentally and offfoiafly,
poor Governor La Trohe. The time is coming
when every newspaper of true Australian instincts
will have to keep a similar line standing :
Wanted, a President!
From Imperial Federation :
As now organised, the Imperial Federation League in
Canada has six vice-presidents; four of them are the
lieutenant-governors of their respective provinces, a fifth
is an archbishop. The branches of the league have
increased in number to 26, and now stretch across the
whole 8003 miles’ breadth of the country, from Halifax to
Vancouver. So much for our progress in the past.
These “numerous” so-called branches are pro-
bably 7 in a similar state to that of the Australian
ones. The Australian branches are about as active
as a dead Chinaman.
After all, what is a Parliament at the
best ? Two-thirds of the Australian electors are
working men, but they cannot get a single repre-
sentative into the Parliaments of Victoria, New
South Wales, Queensland, or South Australia.
Von say ihey can put in whom they please. It is
false. Election expenses ruin anyone save a capi-
talist, and nearly every member is an employer.
The employe is not represented by any member of
Parliament! Suppose your master says : “ I’ll
look after your interests and not my own.” When
pigs fly and water runs up hill the employer can
represent the employe.
When Postmaster-General O'Connor told
tlie delegates of the About-to-be-federated Wharf
Labourers that, in N.S. Wales, the working-man
Ims as much political power as the wealthiest pro-
perty-owner, he must have known lie was present-
ing for their acceptance as pure a specimen of
verbal slush as even that patent automatic gas-
blower, put - nix -in - the - slot -and -you - will- get-a-
<liseour.se machine Dan O’Connor ever emitted.
When the One Man One Vote is crystallised into
legislation Bill Smith, the lumper will have as
much political power as Chumpkins, Esquire,
.1.1’., plutocrat and plural-voter-by-reason-of-own-
iiig-allotment-’-iii-various-constitucneies. Then —
and not till then.
St. Stephen's Review, a London Tory
society “organ,” borrowed lately, with the aid of
Phi). May, the idea of an old Bulletin cartoon
by L. Hopkins on “Imperial Federation,” to
which the following sweet!y-innqpent legend was
appended:—
This is an anti-Federation picture, hut we publish it
because it is a good one, though in no way illustrating
our sentiments, it may he useful, moreover, as showing
a certain class of Australian public feeling as it is.
When Tory papers reproduce Bulletin pictures,
and all the English Radical papers reprint Bulle-
tin opinion, it’s only a matter of time for theß.P.
to echo Bulletin sentiments.
In the George-Tromvith debate, the chief
points made by the latter were the savings to a
community by Protection in the elimination of
unnecessary middlemen and the cost of transpor-
tation ; the insurance of higher wages and the
protect'd! from pauper-labour. The opponents
never seem to have clinched. One argued philo-
sophically and theoretically ; the other statistically
and practically. One dealt in generalities, the
other in particulars, and both claimed the victory.
Henry George attributed the prosperity of Vic-
toria to her liberal land-legislation, her wise ex-
penditure of loan-moneys upon water and other
productive works, and the fact that her early
population comprised the “ very flower of the
world.” George asserted that Protection
had to be maintained by armies, fleets and
tyrannical acts, and not by the arts of peace and
civilisation ; and Trenwith argued that the
system did not create, but broke up, monopolies.
Professor Thurston, of Yale, U.S.A.—a
man who has pre-empted a front place in the
catalogue of distinguished electricians, lately
declared that “ in a generation or two electrical
science will have enabled man to traverse con-
tinents and cross oceans in the air ’’ by means of
winglike appendages. In short, he'll fly. What
a high old time for creditors!
OH! HENRY GEORGE!
(RONDEAU.)
Oh ! Henry George, if you’ve your way
And “Single-tax ” we have to pay,
Who’s going to help the steady chap
Who's saved and bought a home, mayhap.
Must he then lose his savings, pray ?
Are usurers to win the day
And flout their wealth with aspect gay
Whilst honest labour doffs its cap?
Oh ! Henry George !
If that’s your game you’d better stray
To other climes without delay ;
Too palpable, my boy. the trap
Labour’s reward and life to sap.
Such stupid things how can you say ?
Oh ! Henry George.
W.E.H.


ISP <>• /
l;
~g v *
BIBLE
l;
“ EREETRADE AND CHRISTIANITY GO HAND IN HAND”— PARKES.
PARKES: “I SEE YOU TRAVEL ON THE BIBLE-RACKET, MISTER GEORGE. I’VE ALWAYS FOUND IT A GOOD POLITICAL GAG,”
GEORGE “SEEMS KINDER PLAYED-OUT JEST NOW.”


'far*-', p dtfs a ft&*<rp€t/?er aecou.ttf 0/ //eoc/s ajb Cot/ O Ay
A /Ae tenet dne/n seas/Vaac/ecf Tfre an/y c/ry y/aee /A
ass APam ie&T Me Jteeck r.. '
AiM/eA is
■,UniUiiHiiiim // t/inii^r,/////„
/ffff Aa Jet fau £ /ef/t u/fvsf. /Ae /iis/~ as eye//as upa/i*
we ayugA " /ras 7%e /nera/ ref/eei/e/t 0/
7%e a//Mar 0/? ffayyedya/ze " c/ar/ny a rece/ti
/t' //iney //r a ra/tufay earr/aye frfrfTa
rfw'ffoLSDun I g
/j w,fy//~s* <////{/>/ /p/fatAer-rAr-
Site federuk/ak Ja/Jj unit da tuT
lefll CL£ e/se to Aim Kt k 77. i
aad orhps ikifh kundies fa Heir names
>7 OV7XAG&
=■ If Jack Want iyi/iildyetm
recant of /he iaryet c/j/AAb/sj/acAt
dur/ny /be recent artillery practice
9Jj AAe Ateac/s Ae sAcu/c/nT iamfa/a/n
// /Ae /ays /ti/s/ai/A A/m fur a
fajs/af Ma/serQ
/'' At> l be txrees Of the -~Reeimeni
ae colonel had a raa g ß irtcen^
wreath of bcautifal white ffovrow, set off witt
delicately blue ribbons. Re announced to his
officers that a lady had preeentod him with the
wreath, remark iag that she bad hoard of th«
doings of lb* —— in the field and desired fe
express her appreciation of their prove***.
fafMce a
"field ' fie frU/te//'** x
Iflieacf So /Vue a JH-'u-
* /« at % e , LU Si
,SUUMUrUifi^ir
ff -s ‘
THINGS IN GENERAL.


p
OREIGN & COLONIAL EXCHANGE BANK
OF AUSTRALASIA, Limited.
Sydney— Bo King Street.
Melbourne— 369 Collins Street.
London Bankers —Australian Joint Stock Bank,
No. 2 King William Street, London, E.C.
This Bank undertakes the Exchange of Money,
both International and Intercolonial, includ-
ing the Coinage of all Foreign Nations, in
addition to all usual and customary banking busi-
ness.
Deposits Received.
3 years
12 months ...
6 months ...
3 months ...
Communications to be
Managing Director.”
D
... per cent.
.. 8 per cent.
... 7 per cent.
... 0 per cent,
addressed to “The
WILSON,
Secretary,
The SYDNEY DEPOSIT BANK,
90 KING STREET —9O
Established 18Su.
Agencies in London and throughout Australia.
Overdrafts granted against Deposit of Deeds,
and all the usual banking business transacted.
The following are the Rates of Interest allowed
for Fixed Deposits
3 Years
12 Months
6 Months
3 Months
5 per cent, allowed on daily balance
9. 1 , per cent.
8| per cent.
7 h per cent.
per cent,
ot current account.
For the past Four (4) Years a Bonus of One per
Cent, has been paid in addition to the above rates.
This is the first and only Bank in the Colonies
which divides its profits with its depositors.
Communications from the country will bo
promptly attended to.
T, S. RICHARDSON.
General Manager,
W. H. PAL I N G & C<>MP A N Y, L I'M iT E
356 George Street, SYDNEY,
H
AVE JrsT Opened ft Magnificent Lot of KTew Pianos from
Also of the wonderful Victor Pianos at £45 and
the celebrated Makers, Steinway, Erard, Uebel, Fenrich. Lipp, Sonisch, Bluthner, Collavd,and others
Estey Organs, No such Variety or Value elsewhere for C’.vsu or Tkkms.
Society
At a priva 1 e dance in Adelaide Kintore
and the Countess were present. In the course of
the evening the band struck up a Highland fling,
her Ladyship stepped out to it, whilst the rest in
room stood round. Kintore endeavoured to in-
duce her to desist, but in vain, and finally, in
desperation, he crossed to where the band stood
and got the music stopped.
# *
The new bridge over the Yarra is a heavy,
common place-looking structure, and has cost the
Country no end of money. Wherefore it is named
after Queen Victoria!
# * *
Is rigid economy a necessity at Govern-
ment House, Sydney ? If no‘, why should the
ends of envelopes containing invitations be cut off?
» # #
We read in a report of proceedings at an
anniversary of the Sydney Home of Hope for the
Friendless and Fallen that some reformed and
now happy inmates of the institution turned up
on the occasion “and brought their husbands with
them.” The Bulletin, long an admiring witness
of feats of cast-iron impudence, has until the pre-
sent, yearned for some tangible symbolisation of
the highest efforts of adamantine cheek. It now
cheerfully admits that the man who marries a street
woman and afterwards takes iter up to the Fallen
Women’s Home to show her off as a Beautiful
Example takes the cake. When reformed women
openly acknowledge their funner shame, and
high-spirited, diligent husbands unashamedly help
them to do so, the Fallen Women’s Home will be
big enough to accommodate all the chaste women
in the land.
The Bulletin doesn’t blame the man who re-
forms a fallen woman by marrying her. But it
has not words potent enough to express its con-
tempt for the man who will go with his wile and
directly or indirectly bear witness to the fact that
she on„e walked the pavement.
But hold ! Has human nature, even the human
nature of the trottoir, really fallen so low that
there can be found women to make cold-bloodedly
public confession? Did the reporters see the hus-
bands attend with their reformed wives—or was
the paragraph “ supplied ? ’
# # »
Mr. Charles B. Fairfax, the coming head
of the house of Fairfax and boss of the Sydney
Morning Herald, is departing from the pious,
not to say austere family traditions, by importing
expensive gamecocks from England. Father
James, where art thou ? Hideous thought! Can
it be that the old man is selecting the fowls and
exporting them to his promising young rooster?
The Bulletin may here mention that its horse-
reporter has a small fowl which lie rather fancies,
and he will be glad to give Mister Charles “ a fly-
tip for a fiver” at Shepherd’s Bush any Sunday
morning after the church-bells stop ringing.
* * *
All the great North Australian shipping
disasters have happened in fine weather, remarks
the Normanton Chronicle— which goes on to
relate how, after the Gothenburg had gone down
with 100 souls, Davis, the diver employed to
recover 3000 ounces of gold, which formed part of
the cargo, stated that ‘ ‘ when he descended to the
saloon a number of the passengers were sitting at
the dining-table with their eyes wide open and the
knives and forks in their hands.” The water had
rushed into the saloon, filling it before they had
time to get up, and there they sat, a ghastly
dining-party. In other words, they had only been
given time to close their mouths, and they were
such a dignified lot that they wouldn’t allow the
inrush of water to wash them out of their seats for
fear their noses might get into the soup. The
Bulletin hopes that Mr. Davis earns lots of money
at diving. He evidently couldn’t earn his salt at
telling symmetrical lies —or even at reporting
Parliamentary proceedings to suit the Foreign-
trade press.
* # #
A SCEPTIC.
What talk is this of some disease
Which sets you trembling at the knees
A nd makes you cough and gasp and sneeze
As though possessed by frenzy ?
My clerk was absent all the day,
My office-boy likewise away;
My cleaner-up sent in to say
She’d “ got the influenzy.”
This precious “ plague ” now broken loose,
Is with all business playing the deuce,
And every scamp who wants excuse
To loaf —says he has caught it.
I believe ’tis nothing but a wheeze,
And —tishoo, tishoo —hold me, please !
I —tishoo—bless me how 1 sneeze —
Oh, Lord, I’m sure I’ve got it!!
Melb. J. C. M‘o artie.
* * *
Sydney Daily Telegraph has the cheek
to sermonise in a leading article against mining-
gambling. What sort of a sermon was that
preached by the D.T. when it cracked up the
ghastly half-million White Rock fizzle in a two-or-
TUMMY’S BOMBSHELL.
H.R.H. (to the society comedian): “WHEN YOU ARRIVE IN AUSTRALIA,
DEAH. BWOY, JUST TELL THE BAHBAWIANS THERE (THE
SILKEN BONDS ARE SLACKENING) THAT AT PRESENT THEIR
COUNTRY IS TOO DEMNITION FAR AWAY, DON-CHER-KNOW,
OR ELSE AW—I’D VISIT THEM MYSELF, BON HONOUR,
DON-CHER-KNOW."
three column sketch, which for graphic prophecy,
reckless enthusiasm, and insane cocksureness, is
still without a parallel ? The Bulletin advises
the Daily Telegraph to bury itself in a cellar
and blush to death.
# * *
It has been remarked that the American
women who have married lords and such have-all
caught their husbands in America and not in
England. Up to now the rule holds good with
respect to Australia.
# * *
Cardinal Moran is to be congratulated on
his porter —we mean his door-functionary, for lie
da lies not with XXX. A distinguished daughter
of the Church drove up last week to the “Palace,”
desiring to interview the Cardinal. Repeated
jerks at the bell, to the number of five, failed to
elicit a response. Number six was more suc-
cessful. In justifiably indignant tones the lady
protested : “I have rung six times!” In the re-
assuring accents of a father-confessor, who informs
his fair penitent that the sin she deems mortal is
only venial, the official replied: “Shure, an’ it’s
no crime !”
# * *
“Keilambete” Thomson, the wealthy
Western (Vic.) squatter, who died last week,
leaving £150,000 or so to be divided among certain
churches and charities, was a staunch supporter of
the Kurruk, and worshipped at Nobrat Chapel,
the beautiful little edifice erected by Mrs. Neil
Black to the memory of her husband, Neil Black,
the famous “NB conjoined ” of Australian cattle-
ocraoy. In the interregnum between the depar-
ture of one and the installation of another pastor,
a year or two ago, an Ormond College student
filled the pulpit for a Sawbath. The embryo
preacher had been accommodated at Mount Noorat,
the Blacks’ homestead, on the Saturday, and in
accordance with the characteristically thrifty cus-
tom of the Presbyterian congregations in the
“ dees-treect,” he was “ passed on ” after the Sun-
day morning service to Thomson, who was to give
him his “denner,” and then transfer him to
M’Kinnon, of Marida-Yallock, for tea and bed.
As the squatter drove the youngster to the
Keilambete homestead, he took him to task over
the mild character of the sermon, which the old
man--who believed in a good, hot hell for his foes
and name of his friends—thought insufficiently in-
flammatory. At first the sucking evangelist (who
had his eye on the Noorat vacancy, as to filling
which Thomson would have a lot to say) listened
in silence, but as the criticism proceeded, it be-
came evident to him that he had failed to please
'Thomson by both the manner and matter of his
discourse, and so he cast discretion over the buggy-
wheels and resolved to fire back. “ Pretty wealthy
congregation, I should say, sir, though it is small?”
he broke in with. “Yes,” replied the old man,
“ you preached to about two millions. There was
me, and Mrs. Black, and Archie, and M'Kinnon.”
“Two millions!” gasped the embryo; “Ob, I
couldn’t manage this charge. Why, the whole
General Assembly couldn’t keep you out of Hell!”
This appears in the Otago (N.Z.) Witness
I have just come across an instance of snobbishness
that may interest you. It appears that the Hon. T. F.
Sargootl, M.L.0., Lieutenant-Colonel, and Sir Thomas
M'lhvraith, K.C.M0.., visited New Zealand some time ago,
and as they passed through Woodville on their way north-
ward were asked to subscribe to the N.Z. Jubilee Fund.
This they declined to do, hut offered instead to give a
few shillings to pay for the printing of tickets to com-
memorate their gracious visit to the benighted souls of
Woodville. When 1 was at Woodville two days ago these
were ready for distribution, and the public-school teachers
were being asked to undertake the pleasant duty of dis-
tributing them to favoured citizens.
A copy of litis remarkable card done in green and
gold is enclosed, adds the Witness. Seeing is believing,
or the storv would ho incredible. Here is the card :
N.Z. JUBILEE, 1890.
Presented to
By
The Hon. F. Sargood, M.L.C., Lieutenant-Colonel,
And
Sir Thomas M‘l wraith, K.C.M.G.,,
On their Visit to Now Zealand.
Woodville, January 20, 1890.
Considered as a memorial of a never-to-be-forgotten event
this bit of pasteboard lacks the quality of permanence.
It is cheap but perishable. The track of these two Aus-
tralian honourahles through the country, continues the
newspaper, should he marked by a series of monumental
pillars ; and a tower, or a cross, or a belfry, or at least a
memorial brass ought to he set up wherever they deigned
to pass the night.
# * #
The influenza has broken out with terrific
violence amongst the Melbourne bank-clerks, and
hundreds of them are unable to go to work. The
symptoms are an aching head, parched month and
throat, and a feeling of great depression on first
waking in the morning. The prescription that has
so far proved most efficacious in making a cure
runs as follows:—“B—y, 2fl. ozs.; aqua-,soda;,
sfl. 60z.; g—c —e, loz.; mix, drink while effer-
vescing.”
SEASONABLE CHANTS.
Thrice sacred Lent is o’er ; its mesh
Forbade us all to eat of flesh ;
We humbly kissed th’ ascetic rod,
And, fasting, dined on rocky cod.
(food Friday came ; each pious one
Full feasted on a hot cross bun ;
Last Easter Sunday freed our leg,
Wo topped off with an Easter egg.
Full penance done, we’re on the loose
Till Michaelmas brings on its goose ;
And then we’ll sober up and funk
Till custom brings its Christmas drunk.
Thus piously our lives are spent,
’Twixt festive frolickings and Lent ;
With eyes strabismussed on we lurch,
One on the pub, one on the church.
LATE NEWS
The influenza’s keeping bad, and so’s the weather,
rather;
In England they have hanged a lad for chopping
up his father;
The facts about those massacres the Czar of Russia
stifles,
Victoria will ship off home a batch of Mounted
Rifles.
O’Connor can’t get matches on because he don’t go
drinking,
And Sydney’s faith in “sporting” men is gradually
shrinking.
That noble boy with Smithses’ soap is still a-
blowing bubbles,
And Austria has called out troops to put down
labour troubles.
The cyclone down in Illinois was all a windy
fable,
And Carbine is the stoutest horse that ever smelt
of stable.
Absconding bank-clerk Allpress soon will greet us
in Australia;
The Irish Landlords’ bonus scheme, says Glad-
stone, is a failure.
The Mayor of Sydney’s Ball was O ! a dream of
grub and guzzle,
Yet Succi’s living forty days on nothing—it’s a
puzzle.
Our gallant troops say they’ll be blanked before
again will they go
To play the fool in Easter camps until they catch
lumbago.
A Melbourne parson, who for months waxed fat
on toast and kisses,
Has just been “sacked ” because he stole a ’tater-
salesman’s missis;
The tears adown his “loved ones’” cheeks in
torrents have been raining,
And fifteen of ’em voted for their shepherd still
remaining.
Of Carington they’ll make an Earl, because of
his devotion
To us poor beggahs, dontcherknow, on this side of
the ocean.
When men like Gillies catch the “Grip”—he's
sneezing something awful,
It's time they passed an Act to make the new
disease unlawful.
The cable said a tenor sweet had gone to life
eternal ;
But now it seems ’twas Edward Lloyd who ran a
London journal.
More sons of peers are going bung, and freely file
their shovels.
The Bulletin still sticks to truth, and never,
never grovels.
* * *
Matrimonial advertisements (says the
Cairns Post) are common in the Cooktown Inde-
pendent just now. It is to bo hoped advertisers
will meet with better luck than the Cairns man
did when he tried the Independent for a wife.
He got six replies from married men offering
theirs.
# # #
In Ireland the other day, when a young
lady, proud of her connections, discoursing of
people’s motives in marriage, said to an old
farmer’s wife : “ Ah, well, you see, I married for
jarnilg. ” “Faix then, madam,” she said, “the
blessed Virgin have mercy on ye, for ye’ve been
married five years and only one child, and that a
gurrl.”
The American Revivalist, Samuel P. Jones,
whose remarks on the liquor traffic wo recently
VOGUE LA GALERE!
Here’s luck to a life that is short.
As long as ’tis merry and bright,
With seldom a saddening thought
To make a man feel he’s contrite ;
Here’s turning of day into night,
And night into day everywhere—
This motto to pleasure incite,
Fill glasses and vcgue la gaUre!
Vast riches should never be sought,
And hollow fame’s not worth the fight ;
Enough that bright glances be bought
And red wine to gladden the sight.
Leave others wealth’s power and might
Too often it brings you dull care—
The moment enjoy in its flight,
Fill glasses and vogue la gaUre!
Good wishes will always be bought
With smiles by the impudent wight,
Who never in sadness is caught
And seems always merry and light;
Who’d care for the sorrowful plight
Of him who would lay his heart bare?
Not one ; and’twould serve the fool right—
Fill glasses and vogue la gal ere!
Envoi :
Let worry or trouble ne’er fright,
Life’s only a Vanity Fair ;
This saying most happy and trite—
Fill glasses and vogue la gaUre!
W. E. HAMMOND.


The
Marvellous
JLSs=. 6cl.
OPTIMUS
WATCHES
The Best, Cheapest and Most Accurate Timekeepers
ever produced.
Made espee'ally to our order by one of the leading and
most celebrated manufacturers of Watches in Switzerland,
and experience has shown that no watch is better than a
well-made Swiss one.
,-Qilt movements, jewelled in six holes, keyless (10 turns
to wind), enamel dials, crystal faces, well made, splendidly
finished;, nickel cases that will wear excellently; in fact,
real good-looking, handsome little watches, and magnifi-
cent timekeepers.
Twelve months’ guarantee forwarded with every one.
Send P. 0.0. for 19s, 6d. (Is. postage), and have one
forwarded by post. If not in every way satisfactory aftey
a week money willingly refunded.
Onlv to be obtained from
FROST SHIPHAM,
Spectacle Makers, Opticians & Electricians,
474 & 537 Geor S3 Street, Sydney.
Photography. —Charlemont and Co. (vice-regal
photographers), in the Royal Arcade, beg to an-
nounce that they have now reduced the price of
their Cabinet Photographs to 15s. per do/.,
any style—bust, vignette or three-quarter figure.
Messrs. Charlemont feel assured that this reduc-
tion in price will meet the many who refrained
from sitting in their studio, solely on account of
the price hitherto being higher than they might
care to pay. Grosvenor Galleries, Royal Arcade.
warm
w s
sen*janKif*'-sP>
Watches and Jewellery are like good wives—they are
worth having.
Send for Illustrated Price List. Post Free.
813 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
(Nearly opposite Railway Station).
Factories: Liverpool and London, England.
tr
£2 10s. English Lever, Two Years’ Guaranteed.
£3 10s. English Lever, “The Unequalled,” full cap.
£4 English Lever, “The Special,” compensated.
20/- The Unequalled Keyless Watch. 20/-
Country Residents and Visitors to Sydney call or send
to A. SAUNDERS, 813 George Street (nearly opposite
Railway Station), SYDNEY.
IM Scott’s Emulsion HasDonei
Over 2B Pounds G ain in Ten Weeks.
Experience of a Prominent Citizen,
The California Society fob the I
Suppression of Vice, >
San 2?kancisco, July 7th, 1886.)
I took a severe eold upon
my chest and lungs and did
not give it proper attention;
it developed into bronchitis,
and in the fall of the same
year I was threatened with
consumption. Physicians or-
dered me to a more congeni-
al climate, and I came to San
Francisco. Soon after my
arrival I commenced taking
Scott’s Emulsion of Cod Liver
Oil with Hypophosphites reg-
ularly three times a day. In
ten weeks my avoirdupois
went from 158 to 180 pounds
and over; the cough mean-
time ceased, c. R. bennett.
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS.
’S
JLJ
£2OO IJPiEOCJKIESS.
G 1 VIA AWAY IX THH COLONIES
AS FOLLOWS ;
10 of £5 each, 25 4L2, and 70 &I,
Pamphlets fVoin"‘ttfe Agents, ALLT & CO.,- Limited, CHARLOTTE PLACE, SYDNEY
quoted, says: “The Episcopalians have all the
starch, the Baptists all the water, and vve
Methodists all the religion.”
* # #
The defaulting lawyer’s clerk, Laurence,
now “doing time ” in Melbourne gaol for stealing
several thousands from Lyons and Co., his em-
ployers, was a marvellously cool hand. He was
first found to have annexed £11(50, in two sums of
£BOO and £3(50, and, on being taxed therewith, he
admitted that it was slightly “ irregular.” “ Irre-
gular !” shrieked Sam Lyons, the suburban court
champion Billingsgater. “Well, tell you what
we’ll do,” said Laurence, soothingly; “let’s sub-
mit the.business to arbitration, and if they say 1
have to pay up. I’ll do it." After Lyons had
recovered from the attack of faintness ensuing on
this cool proposition, he remarked that “Mr. Call
was the only arbitrator” for him. That P.M.,
and subsequently a jury, decided in favour of
Lyons, and Laurence is now “paying” the debt
by daily instalments extending over a period oi
five years. Laurence was managing clerk to this
big firm at the tremendous screw of £4 a week.
# # #
Rev. Kinsman, Melbourne’s auctioneer-
parson, has a very low opinion of Mrs. Mona
Caird’s matrimonial standard of morals. He still
holds marriage to be a sacred institution, and
almost a sacrament when the fee exceeds 80s.
# * *
“ How will it end 1” The “ Romance of
Finance’’has got to be written. When written
its chapters will run something like this :
Chap. I £ £ £
Chap, 11. ... 0 0 0
Chap. 11l ? ? ?
* * *
A game of alleged whist, played at the
Yorick Club, Melbourne, is illustrated and
criticised in February Knowledge. As the play
in every trick in the hands is ruthlessly cut up by
the whist-editor, one of the foremost players in
the Big Smoke, the presumption is that they don’t
play whist at the Yorick. They should stick to
poker.
# * *
A well-informed Paris correspondent
writes that “ Not one of the savage or semi-savage
potentates who visited the Paris Exposition but
what has had his constitution wrecked by ‘ social’
excesses while here.” The recording angel who
scores the points in the billiard-saloon of Time
will please mark another fire-shot to the credit of
Modern Civilisation 1
* * *
From a volume of U.S. statistics we give
a selection of reasons for desiring divorce taken
from the National Courts’ records. Female
grievances—“husband kept her awake talking at
night ’ [there is surely some mistake here. —Ed. B.];
‘ 1 he doesn’t wash himself ; ” “ accused my sister
of stealing; ” “ threw my little curly dog into
the fire;” “he sleeps with a razor under the
pillow ; ” “smashes the crockery;” “enlisted in
the navy;” “uses tobacco;” “never takes me
for a ride;” “winks at the girls;” “scratches
me severely at night as he won’t cut his toenails ;”
“works all day on Sunday,” &c. And here are
some male complaints—“ my wife refuses to cook;”
“ she won’t sew on my buttons “ she says I’m
no man ; ” keeps me awake all night arguing ” (a
frequent complaint); “goes to balls and leaves
the children out of bed and supperless; ” “ pawns
my clothes for beer ; ” “ wants me to mak« over
my property to her.” And so on.
* # *
A Victorian bookmaker advertises chat
he won’t be responsible for his son’s bets.
# * *
The last invention is a machine for butter-
ing bread. How about a machine for buttering
men who have something to give away ? Dan
O’Connor might confer on the subject with
Burdett Smith.
* * #
By a regulation of the new Republican
authorities, Brazilians of the higher classes are
now compelled, when they are desirous of marriage,
to furnish to the family of their fiancee, official
medical certificates that they are not suffering
from axxy coxxtagioxxs disease.
* * *
An Adelaide woman lately issued a book
of poems, atxd in oxxe place there should have been
“bridle reixx,” but the comp, made it “bridal
reign.” He knew what she was thinkixxg about.
* * #
The German Emperor has, it is cabled,
condemned the Ixxxurioxxs habits of the officers of
the army. He ought to have seen the wooden floors,
the carpets, wash-stands, chests of drawers, pianos,
I'ocking-chairs, and soda-water, not to say whisky,
and the “ photos” of fair women, with other de-
corations, in the tents of the N.S.W. officers at
Middle Harbour axxd National Park. He also
ought to witness the discipline which allows those
privates who get drunk to insult visitors to the
camp.
f # # *
6 Victorian obituary poems get more mixed
every day. One of the latest of those well-meant
efforts begins with a bewildering assertion that —
He ceased to breathe no more.
Why they should go and bury him under such cir-
cumstances is not quite clear.
# # #
A Melbourne branch of the A. N.A. has
been discussing “ What is the Difference between
the Man and the Brute. ” A good deal depends
on which man and which brute you select for com-
parison. The difference between Judge Hang-
more and a lamb is pretty considerable, but the
difference between a deaf money-lender and a
tame tiger is that one of them can hear a customer
stumping upstairs, and the other can’t.
* # *
The London correspondent of the Age
lately cabled that the brother of the Agent-General
for South Australia is ill. An aunt of one of The
Bulletin staff is also pretty bad. It must be the
weather.
» * *
A refined young lady, inflamed with
philanthropy, went as a nurse in a Victorian
hospital, and what do you think was the first job
they gave her ? Washing the body of a dead
Chinaman! Now, girls, next!
* * *
When the Marquis of Normanby (who has
just died in England) was proceeding from N.Z.
to Victoria to assume the Governorship of that
colony in 1879, he travelled by the Rotomahana,
which boat called in at Hobart to drop and take
up passengers. The “season” was pretty well
advanced, and the little town was accordingly full
of visitors, who, bored to death, hailed with de-
fight the mild sensation of a steamer-arrival and
flocked to the wharf, their number being largely
reinforced by many of the Hobart people proper,
who were curious to see the vessel —then new on
the route. As the good ship drew up to the pier
a ringing cheer went up from the Hobartonians,
who saw on the bridge, in command, Cap-
tain Chatfield, a pure-bred Tasmanian, who, as
man and boy, was known and liked by almost
everybody in the island and whose appointment to
the steamer was immensely popular. There was
no mistaking as to whom the shout was in-
tended for, and the skipper doffed his cap.
A stout, bulky figure, also standing on the
bridge, similarly acknowledged the salute by
“COLD CODYPHEES.”
“IF THE WEATHER DON’T GET WARMER I’LL ASK THE STAGE MANAGER
TO LET ME PUT MORE ON.”
advancing to the bridge-rail, taking off a grey
“topper” and bowing repeatedly. The humour
of the saluting crowd changed to a genial irony.
“ Give the old chap another,” cried a trolly-man,
and another and yet another cheer was sent up.
The acknowledgment was repeated to the crowd s
amusement, and speculation was rife as to the
personality of his stumpiness. “He must be a
director of the company,” suggested a longshore-
man. “Or the Marine Superintendent,” said
another. But, “ I’m d dif it isn’t old Nor-
manby,” ejaculated a quondam New Zealander —
and the enthusiasm fell to zero. It momentarily
revived, however, to a degree of ginger-pop effer-
vescence as Colonel Windle St. Hill, A.D.O. to
Governor Weld, dashed up in the vice-regal
tandem to welcome the Most Noble ’Un, and then
the crowd watched with bated breath the meeting
of the two personages and listened to the exchange
of greetings. Softly floated down o’er the bul-
warks, “I am greatly gratified, indeed, at the
warmth of my reception here. I could not have
expected it.” And then a burst of irreverent
laughter drowned the rest of the dignified utter-
ance, which "was most probably an allusion to
“Those bonds which,” &c.
* * *
A certain N.S.W. bank-manager has taken,
or rather been granted, twelve months’ leave of
absence for the purpose of taking a trip “ home.”
Since his departure it has been discovered that
his evidence would be particularly useful in a
certain mammoth bankruptcy case. And the
Court can’t order him back and the bank
won’t. It is more than likely that during
his tour the manager will cross the _ trail
of one of the parties to an extraordinary
mortgage transaction, reference to which in his
bank’s last half-yearly report was conspicuous—
by its absence. Had the conspicuosity been of
t’other sort the institution’s shareholders would
have been regaled by beautiful visions of the way
in which their interests are legally safeguarded.
* * #
An immense crowd assembled at the Cathe-
dral, Hobart, on Easter Monday, to witness the
marriage of Miss Hamilton, the Tasmanian Gover-
nor’s daughter, to Mr. Theyre Weigall. The
bride’s dress was white corded silk draped with
numssiUne de sole, with Medici collar, puffed
sleeves, and court train, while her lovely bouquet
was so huge that she was obliged to hold it with
both hands. Her veil was fastened with a pearl
brooch, an heirloom in the bridegroom’s family,
and she also wore a handsome diamond crescent,
Lord and Lady Carington’s wedding-gift. The
bridesmaids wore white serge dresses, and white
felt hats trimmed with feathers.
* # *
There appears to be a marriage-epidemic
in Hobart just now, no less than six ladies —
mostly Tasmanians—-having left that cool and
pleasant land for the hotter, dustier Australian
cities within two months. Although the Tas-
manian girls are losing their reputation for beauty,
there must be something vastly attractive about
the “ Gumsuckers.” “ The Vagabond ” once spent
a few hours in Hobart, en route for New Zealand,
and expressed himself greatly disappointed at not
seeing any pretty girls. Perhaps he expected
them to parade for his inspection.
* * *
The stewardesses on the steamers bound
South, during the recent cheap trips, had some
queer folks to deal with. One relates that a lady-
passenger, who dressed most extravagantly and
demanded constant attention, used to disappear so
mysteriously at times that it roused her curiosity
and she determined to find out the why and
wherefore. Imagine her astonishment, after a
long and thorough search, on discovering the
missing lady snugly ensconced behind the coils of
rope, right “ aft,” smoking a short clay pipe with
evident enjoyment.
# * #
We read that a certain lady is ‘ ‘ going to
try a fourth husband.” “Try” is excellent in
this connection.
* * *
Scone (Tas.) advt. :
TYTANTED— I Two lads ; one to feed sheep, other to
’’ milk and drive pair bullocks. W. Gibson,
Scone.
* * *
Rockhampton society is much interested
in the struggle for the hand of the youngest
daughter of a wealthy Mount Morganite.
The Two Samaritans and the Tramp.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A tramp was trampin’ on the road —
The afternoon was warm an’ muggy—
And by-and-by he chanced to meet
A pars in ridin’ in a buggy.
Said he : “ As follerers ov the Loard,
To do good offices we oughter !”
An’ from a water-bag he poured,
An’ guv the tramp, a drink er water.
The parsin he went rattlin’ ’ome
To ware his fam-i-lee was thrivin’,
The tramp went on until he met
A bullick-driver, bullick drivin’—
“ It’s bilin’ ’ot ” the driver sed
As soon’s the dirty tramp drawed nearer,
And from a little keg he poured,
And giv the tramp a pint of beer-“ ah.”
(P.S. - The “ah” is meant to stand for the tram
a-drinkiny ov it.)
I ain’t agin the temperance cause,
Nor yet no advocate ov drinkin’—
I only tells the yarn because—
Well, at the time it somehow seemeu
Ter kind ov set me thinkin’.
JOE SWALLOW.
The Watch on the Kerb.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
Night-lights are falling;
Girl of the street,
Go to your calling
If you would eat.
Lamplight and starlight
And moonlight superb,
Bright hope is a farlight,
So watch on the kerb.
Watch on the kerb,
Watch on the kerb ;
Hope is a farlight, then watch on the kerb.
Comes a man ; call him —
Gone ! he is vext;
Curses befall him,
Wait fur the next !
Fair world and bright world,
Life still is sweet—
Girl of the night-world,
Watch on the street.
Dreary the watch is ;
Moon sinks from sight,
Gas only blotches
Darkness with light;
Never, oh never,
Lot courage go down ;
Keep from the river,
Oh, Girl of the Town !
H. L.
In Nervous Debility
USE HORSFORD'S ACID PHOSPHATE.
Dr. W. S Granger, M.R.C.S., and L.S.A.
Wool, Wareham, Dorset, says : “1 have used it
in cases of great nervous debility, and the result
was most satisfactory.” ' ■
“That invalid wife, mother, sister or child can
be made the picture of health with Dr. Soule’s
American Hop Bitters.”
Land at Perth, W. A., the best investment.
Plans from Intercolonial Investment Co., Ltd.,
96 Bathurst-ttreet, Sydney.
Cr. Dwyer, a member of the Melbourne
Tramway Trust, once served on a jury empanelled
to try a man for larceny as a bailee. Dwyer was
one of the six for acquittal—the others considered
the prisoner guilty. “Tell ye what we’ll do,”
said Michael, “ let’s bring in a verdict of illegally
pawning without felonious intent.” The opposi-
tion couldn’t see through this specious decision
and consented to it—with the result that the judge
interpreted the verdict as an acquittal.
Reliable Watch Repairs. Baums & Co., King-st. Arcade
ENCOURAGE NATIVE INDUSTRY
Ye plodding sons of honest toil,
Ne’er favoured by Dame Fortune’s wheel,
Prove worthy of your native soil—
Use Pemell’h Patent Golden Meal.
The influenza is raging among the staff at
Government House, Melbourne, and Lord Hope-
toun is watching the well-developed nose of
Secretary Wallington with profound alarm.
Wallington’s “atishoo ” is such a furious explosion
that there is a fear of it blowing his noble master
into the middle of next week.


Amusements.
J£ER MAJEST Y’S T HEATRE
Lessee and Manager Mr. Geo. Rignold.
Doors open at 7; commencing 7.40. Carriages at 10.35.
COMPLETE AND EMPHATIC SUCCESS OF
Mr. WILLIAM RIGNOLD
In a New and Original Drama, entitled,
“WOW-A-DAYS.”
Box Office at Theatre from 10 to 5. Prices as usual.
J. P. Macdonald, Acting-Manager.
ORITERION THEATRE.
Under the Management of Messrs. Brough and Boucicault.
General Manager . .. Mr. Mayne.
Overture at 8 sharp. Carriages at 10.30.
LAST TWO NIGHTS ! LAST TWO NIGHTS ! -
OF THE
ENGLISH COMIC OPERA COMPANY,
in
Alfred Cellier’s entirely new Comic Opera,
THE SULTAN OF MOCHA.
The Opera produced under the personal direction of
Mr. HENRY BRACY.
Admission—ss., 35., 2s. and Is.
Box Plan at Nicholson’s. Carriages at 10.30 p, in.
Joe Davis, Business Manager.
JJONDI AQUARIUM.
The Most Popular
PICNIC and PLEASURE GROUNDS of AUSTRALIA.
The Famous Switchback Railway, conveying
Passengers from Cliff to Cliff daily.
Splendid Asphalt Open-Air Skating-Rink Free to Visitor's.
Open Daily from 10 a.m to 10 p.m.
Admission, Is.; Children, od. Trams to Gate —Fare, 4d
fpHEATRE R O Y A. L.
ROCKHAMPTON, QUEENSLAND.
Seating Accommodation :
| 200, Dress Circle,
-f 200, Stalls.
U00, Pit.
Stage, 45 x5O feet. Scenery and Fittings com-
plete, and every convenience. Sliding Roof for
ventilation.
W. 5. CAPORH Sc CO., Lessess.
For Terms and Dates, apply
SABER BROTHERS,
Rockhampton.
rjs HEA T R E ROYAL
Under the Management of Messrs. Williamson,
Garner and Musgrove.
Lessee, Mr. S. Lazar. Treasurer, Sir. Geo. L. Goodman.
LAST TWO NIGHTS! LAST TWO NIGHTS!
of the
NEW LONDON DRAMATIC COMPANY
in
T h e Shaughram n.
Admission—ss., 3s. and Is.
QPERA HOUSE.
Lessees and Managers .... Messrs. MacMahon.
CONSPICUOUS SUCCESS ! CONSPICUOUS SUC( ESS !
of Mr. F. M. Clark’s world-famed
Boston Ideal Company!
The most Novel and Remarkable Combination ever
brought from America to these Shores.
PRICES—Dress Circle and Reserv ed Stalls, 35.; Stalls 35.;
PIT-ONE SHILLING.
JJARLINGHURST SKATING RINK.
SKATING
TODAY
SKATING
TO-NIGHT
SKATING
TO-DAY
SKATING
TO-NIGHT
SKATING
TO-DAY
SKATING
TO-NIGHT
SKATING
TO-DAY
SKATING
TO-NIGHT
SKATING
TODAY
SKATING
TO-NIGHT
SKATING
THE LARGEST AND BEST
IN THE WORLD.
Remember! Remember!
Seven Laps to the Mile.
THE SPLENDID FLOOR
PRONOUNCED
PERFECT I
THREE SESSIONS
TO-DAY.
Morning, 10 to 12. Ad.,od. Skates
Free. Afternoon, 2.30 to 5.
Admission: Gents, Is; Ladies, Od
Skates, 6d.
Evenincr, 7.30 till 10.15.
Admission, Is. Skates, Is.
Season Tickets:
Gents, 50s. Ladies, 40s.
SKATING
TO-DAY
SKATING
TO-NIGHT
SKATING
TO-DAY
SKATING
TO-NIGHT
SKATING
TO-DAY
SKATING
TO-NIGHT
SKATING
TO-DAY
SKATING
TO-NIGHT
SKATING
TO-DAY
SKATING
TO-NIGHT
SKATING
Theatrical
HOSIER Y.
SILK
COTTON
WOOL
TIGHTS, SHIRTS,
AND
OPERA HOSE.
PADS, ANIMAL DRESSES, ETC.
SPECIALITIES MADE TO ORDER,
Gilt Trimming*, Boot*, Stage Fabrics.
IST* Manufacturers to all leading London and Provincial
Theatres.
AUSTRALIAN AGENTS WANTED.
B. J3URNBT & CO.,
42 King Street, Covent Garden, London.
GUNTHER’S BRISBANE CAFE,
Gboros Street (below Hunter-st.), Sydney.
LpRED. GUNTHER, late of (he Wheatsheaf Hotel,
Castlereagh-st., is desirous of informing his patrons
and (he public generally that he has now" become pro-
prietor of the BRISBANE CAFE, GEORGE STREET.
These premises are commodious, and every convenience is
obtainable. None but liquors of the first quality retailed.
Two of Alcook’s Prize Billiard Tables provided." Files of
sporting and dramatic papers kepi. Special '.ccommodn-
iion for the theatrical profession.
=Tla.e Latest e! =
TOUR NAME neatly printed on Twenty (20) Beautiful
Embossed VISITING CARDS, comprising Floral
Landscape, Sea View, Bird and Love-Motto Designs. No
two alike. ALL FOR*SIXPENCE in Stamps, postage
paid. Agents wanted. Samples free. Address—
An«trnl S ard aud Novelty €«„
U Hustbr Street, SYDNEY.
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
Melbourne Standard calls the Argus its
“ venerable contemporary.” Is a baby contempor-
aneous with its grandma ?
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
Dr. Beyan, of Melbourne, is appealing for
funds in aid of the sufferers by recent floods in
Queensland. Alligators can sob Bevanly sobs.
The Choicest Jewellery, Dahms & Co., King-st. Arcade.
Grant Allen, in the Universal Review,
smashes one of the middle-class, the bourgeois,
literary idols, that once-popular novel “John Hali-
fax, Gentleman,” the moral of which he declares to
be far below that of the play of “Camille.”
“
Use Batho’b Baking Powder.
Bunkum Barnum’s good-bye to the British
public:—
Edison House, London. This 17th of February, 1890.
My greatest show on earth having closed on the 15th,
after a marvellous success—testified to by a million and a
half patrons in fourteen weeks, I wish to give my parting
thanks to the British public, and to assure them that I
shall ever gratefully cherish most pleasant memories of
their kindness and hospitality, even higher than the
pecuniary success with which they have crowned my
efforts to please them. I thus address the world through
the medium of the latest wonderful invention—-Edison’s
phonograph ; so that my voice, like my great show, will
reach future generations, and be heard centuries after I
have joined the great, and, as I believe, happy majority.
—P. T. Barscm.
Vhf.PALING -:d
V V J * I (LIMITED I
[•S the most complete and perfect
.Seven Octaves, Full Trie-herd, Iron Fi
'in Plate, Cross-strung, requiring only tin
powerful, clear, brilliant and pure. In
trumont ever offered at the price,
b’laino. Patent ('heck Action, Brass
minimum of tuning
very elegant Black and Gold
plnom I'' I- Length -1 10- Depth 2- l“.
Walnut Cases. 4##^
This Piano is introduced by W. 11. PALING &' CO., Li.\
purpose of meeting a long-felt demand for a good, reliable ir.>truu»ent a
easy price, and thereby giving to the head <<f almost every household
opportunity of supplying his home with a first-class Piano at a price he:
paid for a' much inferior instrument.
Gold or
it at an
sehold an
heretofore
lOR PUBLIC INFORMATION ONLY, THE WHOLE OF THE SHARES HAVING
BEEN APPLIED FOR.
ABRIDGED PROSPECTUS OF THE
Silver Queen Gold and Silver Mining Company,
MARITOTO, THAMES DISTRICT, N.Z.
(To Be Registered Under the No Liability Act.)
Capital £30,000, in 30,000 Shares of £1 each,
15,000 of which shall be deemed for all purposes fully paid up and taken by the Vendors (together
with the sum of £1000) as payment in full for the Mine.
The remaining 15,000 Shares to be offered to the public on the following terms—viz ;
2s. 6d. on application, and the balance in Calls not exceeding Gd. per Share, and at intervals of not less
than one month.
PROVISIONAL DIRECTORS :
E. W. BATHURST, Esq., Sydney.
H. S. MEYERS, Esq., Sydney.
RICHARD D. BENTLEY, Esq., Sydney.
1). C. BELL, Esq., Sydney.
JAMES CORBETT, Esq., Local Director, Hikutaia, N.Z.
BANKERS:
NATIONAL BANK OF AUSTRALASIA.
SOLICITOR :
ROBERT E. BEGG, Esq., King-street.
BROKERS :
MYERS, BELL, and CO., 110 Pitt-street.
THIS COMPANY is being formed for the purpose of ACQUIRING AND DEVELOPING the
Property known as the
Silver Queen Claim, Maritoto* Thames District, New Zealand,
which contains an area of 29a. Or. 28p.
TITLE : LICENSED HOLDING, granted by the Government of New Zealand.
By reference to the annexed report of Messrs. COX and SEAVER (the well-known mining
experts), who have examined the property, it will be seen that they consider it holds out every prospect
of being proved a valuable one ; the rich ore struck in it and the many facilities it possesses for cheap
and economical working, rendering it a most desirable mining property. They also state that the
large quartz veins, so far as can be determined, are of the true fissure class, containing gold, silver, and
small quantities of other metals, and that the formation and kind of lodes and the manner in which
the precious metal occurs in them, is yery’similar to that of one of the richest, if not the richest,
district for quartz-mining in California —viz., the Bodie District, Mona County.
Mr. B. D. M‘DONALD, one of the leading Stockbrokers of Auckland, visited this property, and
refers to it in the following terms “ With reference to the Silver Queen Claim, situated at Maritoto,
I paid a visit to the ground some three weeks ago, and took some stone from the reefs, which I had
assayed, and obtained a return of 4390 z. silver and 19dwt. gold per ton. I may add that I was most
favourably impressed with the prospect. The reefs are in excellent country, compact, and well-defined.
This ground was certainly the most important I saw on the Maritoto field.”
THERE IS
An Abundance of Timber for Mining Purposes
OJST THE GJ-ZROTJUsTIX
WATER IS PLENTIFUL IN THE MARITOTO CREEK,
And can be easily and economically utilised as a motive power for the machinery.
Several parcels of ORE taken from the property have been ASSAYED in SYDNEY, MEL'
BOURNE, and AUCKLAND, with the following results, viz.
o-
o
By Messrs. PARKER and CO., Footscray, Melbourne:
SILVER WCU TON. GOLD PER TON.
oz. dwt. gr. oz. dwt. gr.
52G 7 14 1 14 16
Dividends will be paid on all shares alike.
The legal expenses, brokerage, and other charges incidental to the floating and registration of
the Company will be a first charge on its assets.
The only contract entered into is one dated April 11, 1890, made between Henry S Meyers, of
the one part, and Frank Baldwin, as Trustee on behalf of the Company, of the other part, which
may be inspected at the office of the Company, 110 Pitt-street.
■■■■—o
Full piosp.-oin« own bail on application to the Brokers.
Furniture, &c.
EWT O N AND LAMB.
FURNITURE and PIANOFORTE
WAREHOUSEMEN,
CABINETMAKERS, UPHOLSTERERS
AND
BEDDING MANUFACTURERS.
SHOW ROOMS AND MANUFACTORY:
SPRING AND O’CONNELL STREETS.
EASY CHAIRS, for Parlour, Library, or Bed-
rooms, new designs, covered to order, in
any material.
PIANOFORTES, by R. LIPP and SOHN,
L. NEUFELD and other Celebrated
Makers at WHOLESALE PRICES. Newton
and Lamb.
AGATELLE BOARDS, Portable, various
* sizes.
Bedroom suites, complete, in various
Woods, and very handsome designs, with
7 feet Wardrobes, or with smaller Wardrobes for
single rooms. Great variety.
N EWTON and LAM B,
Furniture Warehousemen,
SPRING AND O’CONNELL STREETS.
BEDROOM SUITES, fashionable earlv
English designs—Wardrobe 4 feet, with
silvered plate-glass door : Washstand, with marble
top and tile back, Towel Rail; Toilet Table,
with Swing Glass attached; and Two Cane-
Seated Chairs, 14 guineas.
NEWTON & LAMB,
O’Connell And Spring Streets.
w
CANVAS FOLDING
COTS, for camping
out. A cheap occasional
bed light, strong, and
handy, 10s. Gd.
Newton & Lamb.
DINING- TABLES, with patent extending
screws, from 5 feet long and up to 20 feet.
WALNUT TELESCOPIC DINING
TABLES with extra leaves, strongly
made, £3 10s.
HALL FURNITURE, HATSTANDS and
CHAIRS. LARGE ASSORTMENT.
NEWTON & LAMB.
f IBRARY FURNITURE, CENTRE and
JU SIDE TABLES, BOOKCASES, SECRE-
TARIES, READING and LOUNGE CHAIRS.
COMMODE CHAIRS, BIDETS, with Pan.
SHAVING STANDS, NEWTON and
LAMB.
JAPANESE BLINDS, White or Green (extra
quality), fitted with pulleys and cord, 0 x 8,
6s. 6d.; 8 x 8, 95.; 9 x 8,9 s. 6d.; 10 x 8,10 s. (3d.;
12x8, 12s. 6d.; 12x10, 15s. Newton & Lamb,
Funiiture Warehousemen, Spring and O’Connell
Streets.
liIASY CHAIRS for Parlour, Library or Bed-
'J rooms. New Designs covered to order in
any material. Newton & Lamb.
SELF-ADJUSTING CHAIR and COUCH,
for Invalids and Medical Men.
XJOCKING EASY CHAIRS, elegant and
XAj I’estful—a speciality. Newton & Lamb.
»
A
MERICAN PATENT
SHUT UP
CLOTHES DRYER.
135 feet of hanging space.
Very Cheap.
NEWTON and LAMB.
l;
CANVAS FOLDING
CHAIRS.
Substantial and Light.
Suitable for Shipboard and
Verandah.
Price Very Low.
NEWTON and LAMB
F> irniture Warehousemen,
Spring «nd O’Connell Streets.
GARDEN SEATS, 6ft. long, Rustic Cast-iron
Standards, 14s. 6d., 195., 255., 325. 6d.
Newton and Lamb.
Yerandah chairs.
INDIAN LONG ARM LOUNGES.
tS aTTAN VERANDAH LOUNGES, from
it; 15s. • and large variety of Chairs, from
10s. 6d.; special designs, extra quality. Newton
and Lamb, Furniture Warehousemen, Spring and
O’Connell Streets.
BWT ON AND. LAMB.
FURNITURE and PIANOFORTE
WAREHOUSEMEN,
CABINETMAKERS, UPHOLSTERERS
BEDDING MANUFACTURERS.
Show Rooms and Manufactory;
SPRING and O’CONNELL STREETS.
AND


Tho City Produce Co., Hay-street, Sydney,
have been successful in obtaining prizes in every
article they exhibited at the Agricultural Show,
and <ill the first prizes for hay and chaff.
Messrs. Chubb and Praoger, Beale’s
Chambers, have on view photos, of Mr. and Mrs.
Sydney Burdckin, the Mayor being in his official
costume. Both productions are of the highest
artistic merit, and reflect fresh lustre on these
already renowned photographers.
Messrs. John Ljlwler and Sons, George-
street, are now holding a “mammoth sale ” of
drapery, clothing, hoots, bedding, furniture and
ironmongery, and for downright solid bargains
in each and every department this sale is unpre-
cedented, and a glance at the ridiculously low
prices to he seen on another page is almost enough
to take your breath away.
We notice that Mr. W. T. Waters (for-
merly of Riley Bros., and late.manager of Thomp-
son and Giles) has taken that old-established
ladies* mercery and drapery warehouse, so well and
favourably known as Webb’s, 74 and 7(5 King-
street. It is Mr. Waters’ in ten ion to maintain
and, if possible, improve the high reputation this
establishment lias always enjoyed, and ladies who
are in quest of anything new and fashionable
should give him a call. K ich department has
been entirely re stocked with the latest winter
goods, all of the most attractive description.
Our readers are recommended to visit
Messrs. Dahms and Co., Sydney Arcade, and in-
spect a most select assortment of tho most modern
jewellery. A special feature with this firm is the
modernising of old and obsc le';e jewellery, in which
art they stand unrivalled, b ung the only house
possessing the necessary plant ; having secured
the services of workmen specially skilled, they
have brought this branch of their trade to such
perfection that it is utterly impossible to identify
the original article after altera ion, and they are
equally willing to accept ideas (for designs) or to
suggest them. They are the originators of the
now so _ popular “Lady Carington Flannel
Flowers,” designed at the expressed wish of Lady
Carington. Watchmaking and repairing has also
the special attention of the principals, and to give
an idea of the vitality and enterprise of the firm,
we may mention they began business two or three
years ago with a couple of workmen, and are now
obliged to retain a large staff. Mr. Dahms was
was the first to introduce coloured plush in
window-dressing, an idea that has been adopted
by a number of jewellers since.
£5O Reward £5O
FRAUD and DECEIT.
In order to protect the people from being
defrauded and cheated, the American Hop
Bitters Company offers tho above Reward
for the arrest and conviction of any person
or pers ns refilling the American Hop Bitters
Company’s bottles, and for selling any vile
nostrum or compound as the genuine and
original Hr. Soule’s American Hop Bitters,
or for counterfeiting tho Company’s Label—
a Bunch of Green Hops on a White Label,
with Black Letters.
DR. SOULE’S
AMERICAN
HOP - BITTERS
(A MEDICINE, NOT A DRINK),
CONTAINS
HOPS. BUCHU, MANDRAKE
DANDELION.
And the Purest and Best Medical Qualities of all
Other Bitters.
THEY CURE
All Diseases of the Stomach, Bowels, Blood, Liver,
Kidneys and Urinary Organs, Nervousness, Sleeplessness,
Female Complaints and Drunkenness.
THOUSANDS UPON THOUSANDS!!!
of testimonials of the most wonderful cures, voluntarily
sent us, we do not publish them, as they do not make the
cure. It is our medicine, Dr. Soule's American Hop
Bitters that makes the cure. It has never failed and
never can. We will give reference to any one for any
disease similar to their own if desired, or will refer to any
neighbour, as there is not a neighbourhood in the known
world but can show its cures by Dr. Soule’s American
Hop Bitters.
NO OTHER GENUINE. TAKE NO OTHER.
Allcock’s Porous Plasters.
—IN—
Chest, Liver, and Kidney Affections.
Sfc. Veryan Vicarage, Gramponncl-road,
Cornwall, January, 1890.
Dear Sir,—l write to inform you that yonr
‘ Allcock’s Porous Blasters ” are excellent —a real
blessing. Whatever I may say, I feel 1 cannot
Praise them sufficiently. I have given away
hundreds amongst the poor and suffering, and f
cannot recall a single instance where they failed
to give _ relief. They have been used by me for
complaints in the chest, liver, kidneys, and spine,
with marked results, in fact, I know of three
special cases out of many (one of chest, one of
liver, one of kidneys) where the sufferers had been
to the infirmary, tried many doctors, without any
benefit, and were told that nothing more could be
'lone. I gave them yonr plasters, and after a fair
trial of them tho result was really wonderful.
The sufferer in the chest no longer complains of
weakness, lias lest all distressing cough, and is
M’fite strong. The sufferer from liver complaint
no longer complains of indigestion and pains in
the side and between the shoulders, but is quite a
li fferent person. The sufferer from kidney com-
plaint no longin' lies in bed nine months in the
year in agonies, but is able to get out of doors
every day, and is free from pain. I shall recom-
mend these plasters wherever I go.—With all
good wishes for the New Year, yours very grate-
fully,
James Arthur Kemp, Minister.
ALLCOCK’S POROUS PLASTERS are sold
by all Chemists, in various sizes, from 1/1A to 22/6.
He sure you get Allcock's.
l;
l
l
I he Mackay (Q.) Chinamen have boycotted
the local whites, whom they refuse to supply with
vegetables, owing to the enforcement of the
hawking-license regulations.
ei
O
H-*
T
/.GENTS.
DELISSAk PHILLIPS
3a J Barrack Street.
FAMILY & CCMMERCIALHOTEL,
PRTXCES STREET,
(Opposite. (i.P.0.)
DD^EDIU 7 UsT.Z.
VI,K V. I’A Ml £'li Proprietor.
Mr, and Mrs* Thomas Aschs
Beg to inform their Friends and Patrons that,
in addition to other recent improvements at the
ROYAL HOTEL,
a first-class HYDRAULIC ELEVATOR has
been erected for the convenience of Visitors,
rendering it the most complete and comfortable
house in Sydney ; and with the personal and un-
ceasing attention of Mr. and Mis. Arche in every
detail of management, they rely on the continued
patronage of their many old friends, whose kindly
recommendation of the ROYAL HOTEL to their
friends will be esteemed.
O ENTRY STOREKEEPERS, ETC.
A. M. MARKS & CO.,
Furniture, Pianofortes, Glass, Earthenware,
CHINA, FANCY GOODS, ELECTRO PLATE,
Clti.tßS A TOBACCONISTS SINOKIKS
SOLE AGENTS FOR
Dawn Cigars and Salonica Turkish Cigarettes.
Special Novelties in all Lines for Christmas Trade.
Prices on Application to —
-£k-. IVE. & Co ,
Vickery’s Buildings, 74a Pitt Streeet, Sydney
AND AT IiOXDOX.
Telephone, No. 019.
BIRTHDAY CUP.
Should write or rail upon
—lmporters op—
AUSTRAL’S
Hand wick, May 24.
10,000 AT I EACH. J 0,000
l
AUSTRAL’S
BIRTHDAY CUP
Randwick, May 24.
20,000 AT 10 EACH. 20,000
l
All communications by Letter only.
Address
u AUSTRAL,”
CARE OF THE
NATIONAL LOOT MANUFACTURING COMPANY,
250 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Italian lemons, rich in flavour and full of
juice, are now being sold at Adelaide for Id. each.
They come from Palermo wrapped in tissue-paper
and beat Sydney-grown lemons in the S. A. market.
m
th e
ROVAL
EDINBURGH
CASTLE"
Special Reserve ■■
AAA
OLD
SCOTCHWHISKY
Twswsia
58S^i?.i
c l
KOVAL
Edinburgh Castle
WHISKY.
*
SPECIAL RESERVE.
In Square Hollies.
This Wliisky was
st looted by our-dono-
ral Manager, Mr. .l as.
Cullen, during Ids
recent visit to Scot-
land, and through its
purity, age and mag-
nificent bouquet, has
already secured the
premier position in the
market. In eases, qrs.
and octaves. To be
had Duty Paid from
any of the Wholesale
Wine and Spirit Mer-
chants and Distribu-
ting Houses, and in
Bond only from the
SOLE AGENTS,
William Campbell & Co M Limited,
53 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
W 11.1.1 A M CA K (ML L.
Photographic Stock Importer,
26 STEEET,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Government Advertisements.
SB
Department of Public Works.
Sydney, April 16, 1890.
Tenders for. public works and
SUPPLIES.
For Conditions, see Government Gazette.
TENDERS for the Works, &e., specified below
will be received at this Department until 11 o'clock
a.m. on the dates mentioned.
WEDNESDAY, APRIL 30.
Additions to Wharf, Seven Oaks, Macleay River
Construction of Wharf at Byangum, Tweed River
Construction of Wharf at Mullumbimby, Bruns-
wick River
} Construction of Wharf at Upper Mangrove Creek,
Hawkesbnry Rive*
Construction of Wharf at Cockle Creek, Brisbane
Water
Construction of Strong room, Lands Office, Armi-
dale
j Additions to Hydraulic Engine-house, Bullock
Island, Newcastle
Construction of Cottage, Creek (Newcastle) Sewer.
Cont. No. I—Country Towns Sewerage
Erection of Lockup, Brushgrove, Clarence River.
Bridge, Parramatta River, at O’Gonnell-street,
Parramatta (fresh tenders)
Construction of Jetty, Mortlake, Parramatta
River
Bridge, Egan's Creek, at Costigaivs road Wagga
Wagga to Y erong Creek
Repairs, <fee., Newington Asylum
Wharf at Miller’s Forest
Construction of Landing Stage, Menindie, and
supply of crane for use thereon (fresh tenders)
Construction, cfec., of Two Sets Condensers, (fee.,
Hydraulic Engine-house, Newcastle (fresh
tenders)
Culvert, Diamond Swamp, main Western-road
near Bathurst
Bridge, Billabong Creek, roads Deuiliquin to
Maude Stock Route
Engineer's Residence, Ballina, Richmond River
(fresh tenders)
Wood Paving Cook’s River Road (fresh tenders)
WEDNESDAY, MAY 14.
Installation of Electric Light, Bullock Island,
Newcastle
Bridge, Lachlan River, at Forbes—Cents. I and 2
(time extended)
Bridge, Murray River, at Corowa- Cont. No. 1—
Supply of Ironwork. Cont. No. 2 -Erection
of Iron Bridge
Timber Truss Bridge over Minnamurra River,
road Shellharbour to Kiama. Cont. No. 1—
Supply of Iron Cylinders for Pier. Cont.
No. 2—Erection of Pier and Superstructure
Repairs, &c., Courthouse, Denman
Erection of Post and Telegraph Office, Silverton
(time extended)
Additions, Police-barracks, Hay
Roofing Benevolent Asylum, George-street, Parra-
matta
Repairs, &c., Courthouse Muvrumburrah
Repairs, (fee., Post and Telegraph Office, Walgett
Horse-shed, Buggy-house, Fencing, &c., Court-
house, Corowa
Erection of Post and Telegraph Office, Cundle-
town (fresh tenders).
BRUCE SMITH.
Ask for the
Unequalled
“DAWN”
3d. CIGAR,
awf M»;jaaßitBattsaaaHEigg
Of all
Tobacconists,
Store
Hotel
KEEPERS,
Wholesale Agents: A. M. MARKS & Co., 74a PITT STREET,
SYDNEY.
l;
DAW SOU'S
Sole Agents for Australasia
VAUGHAN, EOGEES & CO.,
(Opposite 0.P.0.)
10S PITT STREET, SYDNEY.-,
p
E
R
F
E
C
T
I
O
N
,
WHISKY.
SUB-AGENTS WANTED
IN THE
PRINCIPAL CENTRES
THROUGHOUT AUSTRALASIA.
ROMPTLY CURED AFTER BEING
U TTERLY HELP]. ESS.
The St. Louis Post Dispatch publishes the
following editorially : “A remarkable ease has
just come to the notice of a reporter of this paper,
who having been informed of the wonderful cure
of Mrs. Phoebe Rice, 1208 Madison-street, a siste r
of Hon. H. Clay Sexton, Chief of the St. Loni s
Eire Department, visited that lady at her
residence. She was very enthusiastic in her com.
inundations of the pain-relieving and curative
powers of
ST. JACOBS OIL
which she said had Accomplished more for her in a
few weeks than all the other remedies the
physicians had recommended in the past seven
years. Mrs. Rice made her statement without
the least reluctance, and very readily said that for
the past
SEVEN YEARS
she had been a sufferer from acute inflammatory
rheumatism, which had effected the muscles of the
hands, contracting them so badly she could not
comb her hair, hold a needle or pick up a pin, and
rendered the lower limbs so helpless she required
crutches to move about. During ten months she
was obliged to carry the right hand in a sling.
PHYSICIANS
were called in; but gave her only temporary relief.
Some time ago one of her children was afflicted
with a contraction of the muscles of the lower jaw,
which turned her mouth to one side. A few
applications of St. Jacobs oil restored the features
to their natural condition, and Mrs. Rice began
to look hopefully towards it for her own cure. A
single application, she said, made her a firm
believer in its virtues, as the effect was
INSTANTANEOUS,
and she was greatly benefited. The continued use
of it brought her to her happy condition in which
the reporter saw her with the free use of her
limbs and in perfect health, cured. She can now-
run up and down stairs, she said, and her hands
were as useful in every respect as they had been
before she began to suffer seven years ago.
“GOD BLESS ST. JACOBS OIL,”
the good lady exclaimed as the reporter was about
to leave. Mrs. Rice has lived in this city thirty
years, and her statement, worthy of all credence,
is fully corroborated by her friends and neigh-
bours, and by her own children, who weir fully
cognisant of her helpless condition before she
began to use the wonderful remedy.
'JT MP O R TANT CO N SID ERATIONS.
The question of repairs, necessary from time to
time to every watch, is a very vital one. Sup-
posing that some very necessary parts of a Swiss
watch should meet with an accident, give out
unexpectedly or fail of accurate adjustment, what
is to be done ? Of course the answer would vary
i with the occasion, but the chances are it would
i tax the ingenuity, skill and patience of the man
at the bench, costing more in time and labor than
the selling profit could amount to. On the other
hand, every part of the Waterbary is interchange-
able, and can be readily obtained or kept on hand
and adjusted so quickly that it ceases to be
considered a task. These are very important con-
siderations, both for the retailer and consumer.
Weigh them well—they are all worth remembering,
and they possess no small bearing on the question
of valuation.
CAUTION.
If you want correct time and a watch which, in
event of acc-dent,; can be cheaply and efficiently
repaired, AVOID the cheap, trashy, Swiss burglar-
baits sold to tlm unwary as timekeepers. Consult
public opinion in the matter - not the interests of
some pettifogging dealer, who only too eagerly
foists upon you a useless, rubbishy, and worthless
art clc for the sake of gaining extra profit, and
who cares little for yc-ur execrations which will
surety be showered on his head in the near future.
If you'consult public opinion you will beyond a
shadow of a doubt BUY A WATERBURY, the
testimony in favor of which as a reliable and
accurate timekeeper is overwhelming ; and which,
moreover, in event of injury can be efficiently
repaired at low cost by taking, or sending it to
any of the company's repair agencies, established
in various centres of the colonies. All Watches
Manufactured by the Waterbury Watch Co.
HAVE THE WORD “WATERBURY” PRINTED IN
FINE TYPE UPON THEIR DIAL FACES, AND ALSO
THE INTERWOVEN LETTERS W.W.Co., WITHOUT
WHICH NO WATCH SOLD AS A WATERBURY IS
GENUINE.
COLGATE’S
Soaps
Perfumes
193
m pub] :
FRANCA]
m\
ATE
CO!
GOLD MEDAL,
PARIS, 1889.


Basin3ss Aanoanoemcnts.
mm & co.,
Hats made to Order-
iMANUFACTUREfII
Hi
Morley’s Hosiery.
438 George Street, Sydney.
Branch—67'S George Street , Brickfield Hill.
PROBLEM OF TO-DAY -WHERE CAN WE GET GOOD
BOOTS ?—SOLVED AT LAST.
E. 37* 3F2. 33 3NT CJ HfE
(The French of years ago)
Can supply Residents here with Boots better made than
ever. Boots that must wear well and give satisfaction.
Send your orders then to 82 Oxford Street, and he sure
;o enclose Sizes and Remittance, when your parcel will be
sent at once by Post, Rail, or Steamer.
Notice Prices for Boots that look well, wear well
and fit well.
Children’s Elastic-sides, 2/-, 2/11, 3/6, 4/-, 4/0, etc | Best
Men's & Youths' ditto, 5,0, 0/-, 0/6, 7/0, 8/6, etc. I Boots
Men’s & Boys’ Bluchers, 2/11, 4/-, 5/-, 0/-, best ever made.
A Line of Stylish Laced Boots for Best Wear
(Boys’, Youths’ and Men’s Sizes).
ENGLISH BOOTS f r LADIES, CHILDREN, etc.,
Sent as ordered. Lowest Price.
Satisfaction given or Money Returned.
Xote the Address:
ECLIPSE BOOT GO.,
8} Oxford SI reef, SYDXEV.
E. French, Manager.
J. O. Xa-Ul.Ca.o-N7Vi.C3i & £5022,
Manufacturers and Importers of Superior
OAK-TANNED LEATHER BELTING
and every description of Leather Goods for Mining
and Engineering purposes.
All Goods bearing the above Trade Mark are warranted
to give entire satisfaction, or may.be returned at the
Makers’ expense. The Pioneer Oak-tanked Leather
Belting is used exclusively by the N.S.W. Government.
(Jeer 200,000 running in Australia. The cheapest and
best Belting in the world. Send for prices and catalogues
162 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
l;
You Will most certainly save ilouey,
Time, ami Anxiety Viy placing all your
Advertising 1 in our
hands.
Write
to
F. T. WIMBLE k CO.,
Advertising Experts,
3G3 to 373 Goon;o St. , Syd. Send for Pamphlet
“ How to advertise and why?” 11th Edition.
NOW ACKNOWLEDGED
THE BEST
IN THE MARKET
NM
SOLD
EVERYWHERE
w
ngf
%
m
u
y,m.
m,
THE TREE OF LIFE.
«w si R &m.
m
Eucalyptl Oil
Victory Ointment-
Tlu 1 only pure Kncalypte in flic World
AWARDED Gold Medal Adelaide Jubilee
. Exhibition. First Prize Great Centennial
Exhibition, Sydney. The only known CURE for
Asthma, Bionchitis, Consumption, Pleurisy,
Colds, Coughs, and all affections of the Chest and
Lungs; also, for Gout, Rheumatism, Sciatica,
etc. Our VICTORY OINTMENT stands with
out a rival for Bad Legs, Bad Breasts, Cancels,
Tumours, and skir. diseases of all kinds. Also,
manufacturers of the Euca’ypte Pills, Eucalyptc
Hair Restorer, Eucalyptc Soap, and our world
famed Eucalyptc Roney is the best preparation
before the public for young Children and aged
people. Also, makers of the Encalypte Lozenge ,
for the Voice. Manufactory— Cootamunoka.
Sydney Wholesale Depot—2sl Elizabeth Street
Posted to any part of the Colon'os. Fold Every-
where. Beware or Im." ah .ns.
C-a-i'Ei.io.ci iSPier ZEGCotel, !B£Celxx ly.
... M*
fIECTRIG PHOTO ENC. CO . 8 BRIDCE-ST-, SYDNEY-
LATJHEK A 6!C«6KE • * Proprietors.
This Hotel has been Re-Furnished throughout. EW” Cuisine anil Comfort a Speciality.
Aarons’ Esciiaxise Hotel, gydney.
fU
■>*!,
I
* { y '
■
BR3Eap£P5-
■
KM
Adjoining the Sydney Exchange,
— (■■) —
Mining, Financial and General Mercantile Intelligence
Posted several times DAILY in the Building l .
TELEGRAPH, POST and MONEY ORDER OFFICES on the PREMISES.
This Hotel has been thoroughly renovated and re-furnished, and is now unrivalled for comfort
md attention.
Aarons’ Exchange Hotel Co. (Limited), Proprietors.
T HE E
L XJ M. J
th
PlO
r BAHTS brand of Razor is something superior to anything that has ever been offered to the public.
8 Pure hollow ground, beautiful silver steel, and rings like a bell; set ready for use, and we
guarantee each Razor for two years. It never requires grinding, and to gentlemen who shave them-
s dves they cannot possibly do better than to try this particular brand.
~ ( Single Razor, in strong leather ease, 10 0; Pair, in beautiful morocco leather case, L’l -
nce I Single Razor, ivory handle, 15/-; Pair Razors, ivory handles, in beautiful ease, 30/-
Kegistcred and sent Post Free to any part of Hie Australian colonies.
SOLK AOF.STS: OH-A.IC3- «Sc e iEdH3]Xr, Potosi Hairdressing Saloon,
680 6l 682 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
JONES’ SEWING MACHINES,
FOR THE BOOT AND TAILORING TRADES.
The Best Manufacturing Machines in Existence.
Now Perfected, the New No. 3 and No. 4 Machines on an Entirely new System
stock: jtjst landing.
Farlelgli, Mettlieim, <& Co.,
TANNERS AND LEATHER MERCHANTS,
16 x YORK; x STREET, x SYDKTEY.
Sole Agents for the above for New South Wales and Queensland.
_( x )
ALSO Importers of Requisites for (lie BOOT MANUFACTURING TRADE in all Details, including MACHINERY
IMPORTED LEATHERS. &C. : and of the following Rim-tiai, Links; IVvrlnss Gloss Saliii Polfsli, \„i,| ~ j
Itltu Mu; Tanners - T ols and Materials. v Indents Kweuled on Favourable Term.. *
Medical.
Igo
imiuuiiuuug;
■HI
CONSU
w\\jm.
egin
1 1 1 !' » CTu
ilralL.,
~n« RICHAHDS i J^WiiSg
Q; ’
r
This eminent Specialist, Founder, and Chief
Surgeon of the long-estahiished and favourably-
known Dispensary that now beats his name, re-
ceived his medical education in the leading colleges
and hospitals of Europe. He has devoted a life-
time to the study of
PRIVATE, NERVOUS, AND SKIN
DISEASES,
lie has by profound research thoroughly investi-
gated their origin, traced their deadly sources and
insidious dissemination, and ascertained the surest
and safest methods by which they may be eradi-
cated, with those widely recognised qualifications
combined with unswerving faithfulness to hit
patients, he has during his practice, extending
over FORTY YEARS, attained a well-deserved
pre-eminence in their treatment. His practice
embraces d'seasss which probably cause more un-
happiness than any other class of troubles that
afflict mankind.
YOUNG MEN
who suffer from the results of early follies, trans-
gressions or excesses of more nature ago, bladder
difficulties, a whitish or dark ropy sediment in
the water, accompanied by slight burning or
smarting sensation. Headaches, Drowsiness during
the day, circles round the eyes, Giddiness,
irregularity of the bowel*, specks before the eyes,
baUifulno-s, discoikentcdness, weakness or pains
in the back, L ver or kidney complaints, dreams,
buzzing noises in the cars and head, pimples, a
fra’ - that something dreadful is about to happen,
weak rtomach, yellow or Hood-shot eyes, impure
blood, hasty, uncon To lab'.e temper, hack’ng
cough, who ca .not marry, nervousness in society,
wakefulness, palpitation of the heart, general
weakness, and other symptoms which lead to in-
sanity and death, should consult him, for ho has
mastered these dfflcultus. On receipt of fid. in
stamps he will send secure from observation in a
plain wrapper, pos'ago
FREE, A LARGE CLOTH-BOUND
BOOK.
Show ng plainly how all diseases of ho priva'o or
nervous system may bo cured thoroughly and per-
manently without unnecessary cxpence. This
book will pro\c a valuable companim, and even
though you bo perfectly well its general inform-
lion and prescription may assist you it restoring
■ onto poor friend to health even after his case has
been pronounced incurable by his medical at-
tendant.
ONE POUND IS SUFFICIENT TO
SEND
for Remedies necessary for the cure of NER-
VOUS DEBILITY. Shou'd you require mod cal
treatment, as procrastination is sometimes dan-
gerous, it would bo advisable for you to sit down
quietly.in your chamber and write to tho doctor,
detailing every experienced symptom. Ho will
on receipt of such a letter, write you, promptly
md courteously, a candid and straightforward
jponion of your case. If you do not think you
understand the ea-e, send for his famous medical
work, t lie price of w hich is but sixpence ; enclosed
in the volume will bo found a list of carofully-pro-
pared questions, which will, in all probability,
assist you materially in describing your ailment.
Dr. Richards uses nothing but the purest rc medies,
and never prescribes mercury under any circum-
stances. The moment letters are carefully per-
used and answered they arc destroyed by lire,
mid patients may rest assured that I heir cases
will remain a secret between lit 3 doctor and
1 bemscl ves. Dr. Richards has successfully treated
nearly 25,000 cases since coming to Australia, and
has permission from at least 10,000 persons to
show their written evidence of his success. All
communications should be addressed
Dr. RICHARDS,
7 Spring Street
(.OIT Pill Street N'orth)
SYDUBY.
Bo sure tu mention this paper when writing
CONSCLTA.TION ivKCC.
CAUGHT ON THE FLY.
HER ROYAL HIGHNESS: “I have been chasing a missionary about sixteen miles. Did
you see where he went, my lord? ”
His Royal Highness: “Yes, my dear. He just stepped inside.”—Ex.


Business Announcements.
NOTWITHSTANDING
What other Produce Dealers may say, our
JPrime Oa.tezi Clxaff
At 4s. (id, per Cwt. (Bags in),
is TUB
best ■vta.XjTJlb Ta
Ever Offered.
City Produce Company,
STKAM CIIAFF-CI.'TTKRH,
HAY STREET, HAYMAKKET.
Stia-cLy yonr SSyes.
SPECTACLES of every description to suit all sights
from Is. to ss. Pebbles, ss, to 10s. Gauge for testing
your sight. Price List and a Treatise on “ Vision and the
Use of Spectacles,” sent Free.
W. K. TOOSH, Spectacle Maker A Optician,
418 George Street, Syksev.
Awarded Nine Meddle 'at various Exhibitions.
HEALTH for the MILLION !
Mild, Aperient, Autihllions
Pills, purely vegetable
_ _ _ . in tlicir composition,
are particularly recommended to cither sex, whore a
gentle, but effective aperient is required. These Pills
are invaluable for all complaints Of the Stomach and
Liver, speedily removing sick headache, biliousness,
indigestion, etc., and cleansing the
blood of all impurities. To LadiCß
these pills will he found invaluable.
One trial is sufficient to prove their vast superiority
overall others. Sold by all Chemists and storekeepers.
Price is. per box. Prepared solely by John Watson,
Chemist, George Street, Sydney.
l;
PILLS
Rheumatism Lumbago, Sciatica, Debility,
Neuralgic Affections,
Musculae and Nervous Disorders
Instantly Cured!
All Cases under Medical Supervision. Ladies
attended by specially-trained Nurses.
94 * DAHL INGHUKST : ROAD,
SYDNEY.
(Process protected by Letters Patent.)
Boole of KTature.
t IB ?,
Book of 3NT atnre.
BOOK OF NATURE and Illustrated Matri-
monial Guide. A full and explicit explanation
nt the structure and uses of the organs of life and genera-
tion in man and woman, intended especially for the
married, ol‘ those Intending to marry, and who conscien-
tiously and honestly desire to inform themselves upon the
intent and nature of marriage and its duties, to which is
added a complete MEDICAL TREATISE upon all diseases
of the generative organs, whether resulting from infection
or sexual excesses and abuse, with much other valuable
and highly important information, illustrated with more
than fifty engravings, In M, Lafayette Ryru, M.l). ; price
!i/(i, post 4/-. The Fruits of Philoshphv or Private Com-
panion for Married People, post I •>. Mrs. Besanfs Law of
Population, 1/-, post 1/2. Wonderful Song Hook, extra
large, I/O. Aristotle, complete, post 1,-. Maria Monk,
1/0. post 1/9. New complete Fortune Teller, 2s. “The
Matron’s Manual or Midwifery,” (lie book every married
woman needs : price 7/-, posted 7/0. “The Male Genera-
tive Organs,” their use and abuse, with mauv illustrations
and coloured plates ; price 7/-. posted 7/o.' The arts of
Boxing, Swimming and Gymnastics made easy, enabling
anyone to become an expert boxer or athlete,'illustrated
with fifty engravings : price .1 -. “ Marriage as it was, as
it is, and as it should be,” by Mrs. Begant; 1/-, posted 1/2.
Or. Foote’s Plain Home Talk, new edition, ove r 200 illu-
strations; 7/6, post free. “The Labour Movement in
America,” by Aveling, post free 1/0. Matrimony, or
Phrenology and Physiology applied to the selection of
Congenial Companions for Life, Cd. The Elements of
Social Science ; 3/0, posted 4/-. Nigger Songs, (id. Henry
Heorge’s Works all at 1/-, posted 1/4. Works of Ingersoll,
Paine, Bradlaugh, Besant, Foote. Send for catalogue.
SIR ROBERT 81E.A.1R,.,
I* Ainc.vii Ijook Stouts,
1634 PARK STREET, SYDNEY.
H. R. Leacli
SfC'CHSSOR TO
GB. MODINI, Gunmaker, informs his Customers
■ and the Public in general that ho lias the largest
assortment of Firearms in the colony. (Qualities and prices
to defy competition. Guns by the following celebrated
gunmakers; .1. ITkdky & Suss, Cii. Boswhll, John Uioby
and Co., JosKi’ti Baku & Sons, Cii. Osborne & Co., Thomas
Brand & Son. A large assort meiitof various other makers
always on hand, viz., W. W. Orkrnbb, Scott, Wbblky,
Hollis & Sons, Kilkv and Casiimokk. All goods will be
faithfully guaranteed at 602 George-street, Sydney.
Price list on nmdication.
Companies,
The ltriti.sk ami New South Wales Investment
ami Financial t 0., Limited.
- Incorporated under the Companies’ Act, 1874.
Capital, £250,000.
Svd.nev Omen; 210 PITT STKEET.
OILLS DISCOUNTED and Immediate Advances granted
Daily. Country communications promptly attended
to. The following Dates of Interest are allowed for Fixed
Deposits
:i Years ... .... 10 per cent.
With a Guaranteed Bonus on Uenswals of Twelve Months
and over.
By order of the Board.
W. M‘DONALD, Manager.
12 Months
0 Months
3 Months
9 per cent.
8 per cent.
7 per cent.
PIPES.
SMOKE
NOTHING
BUT
PIPES.
THE BEST IN THE WOBLD.
Wholesale Agents :
JULIUS GOLDSCHMIDT & CO.
1331 Clarence Street.
First Prize- MELBOURNE EXHIBITION.
Coup?,
Capital £200,000.
Head Office:
21 Castlereagh St, Sydney,
With Branches and Agencies throughout the Colonies.
Business :
1887 There were Issued 1!),557 Policies.
1888 ~ ~ ~ 34.K84 „
188!> „ „ „ 57 ,W!‘i
hese figures show tlie wonderful progress of the
Company and the high esteem placed upon its
liberal dealings by the public.
CLAIMS PAID
Immediately on Proof of Death
JAMES P. GARY AN, ] Managing Director.
WM. ALEX. SMITH, f Secretary.
A T O 0 MB A FAMILY HOTEL.
JOSEPH NIMMO.
Fir A-class Accommodation for Tourists and Families•
Wires and Letters to be addressed “Proprietor.”
Arrangements can be made to provide transit for persons
wishing to view the celebrated Jenola li l ines and
other places of interest.
Messrs. MAUDE & CO.,
Florists and Nurserymen,
(Of the Hog a I Exotic Nursery, Peakhurst,)
Have Just Opened their
New Premises at 111 King Street, Sydney,
And are.prepared to receive orders for CHOICE
PLANTS, FERNS and CUT FLOWERS, and to
undertake all kinds of
Tloral Decorations at Reasonable I'riees.
lilies’ Lift kmm
LIMITED.
Business Announcements.
"WOOil.. WOOL.
THE NEW ZEALAND
Loan & Mercantile Agency
OOMP A N Y. LIMIT E J ).
BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Capital, £4,500,000 ... Reserve, £270.000
Wool Season* 1888-89.
Regular Sales of Wool Held Throughout the
Season.
r jMIE greatest care bestowed on the Valuation and the
1 Displaying and Protecting all Wools entrusted to
the Company for sale, whether from large or small clips.
rr Grows Advised and Consulted with before Sales
of their Clips are made.
Liberal Cash Advances, where desired, on Wool lien
of Ensuing Chip, and on Wool and other Produce, whether
for sale in Sydney or shipment to London.
Auction Sales op Sheep Skins, Marsupial
Skins, Hides, Tallow, &c., Held Regularly.
IST 1 Every Information Supplied on Application.
G. S. CAMPBELL, Manager.
SYDNEY WOOL Si GRAIN WAREHOUSES
Bridge and Loftus Streets.
Fteati THis !
AGQLSEN opportunity awaits smart gentle-
men in all the colonies who are anxious to
make money rapidly.
Apply at once.
“ AFRICA,”
Box 010, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
JJ IS TORY OF BOTANY BAY
PRICE- ONE SHILLING.
Shipping.
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF NEW
w ZEALAND, Limited.
SAN FRANCISCO ROYAL MAIL SERVICE.
OVERLAND ROUTE TO ENGLAND VIA SAN
FRANCISCO AND NEW YORK,
Calling at
AUCKLAND and HONOLULU,
Avoiding alike the heat of the Red Sea and the cold
of Cape Horn.
Under Contract with the Postmasters-General of New
South Wales and New Zealand, the steamers of this line
arc appointed to leave Sydney and Auckland for Honolulu
and Sau Francisco every fourth Wednesday, sailing as
under:—
Each steamer carries a duly qualified surgeon.
These steamers are fitted with Electric Light and with a
Refrigerating Chamber for ship provisions, insuring a
plentiful supply of ice throughout the voyage.
Passengers are booked to San Francisco or through to
European destinations and hav e at San Francisco choice of
the unrivalled Atlantic Steamship Lines of the Ounard,
Inman, White Star, and other companies.
All first-class passengers are allowed 3501 b. of baggage
to San Francisco and 2501 b. “Overland” free of charge.
THROUGH FARE TO LIVERPOOL.
FIRST-CLASS £63 to £66.
Time-cards, railway maps, and gu de books, showing ail
routes to any point in the United States, may be had on
application
For rates of passage and freight and all other informa-
tion apply at the Company’s Offices, 15 Bridge-street.
FREDK. W. JACKSON, Manager,
Business Announcements.
c o
■i--
HIGHLY {MUIKITJVL
A-:
MAY HE (JBTAINFO IN lABELLFH TINS OH PACKETS THROUGHOUTTHE COLONY.
COMMERCIAL TRAVELLERS, TOURISTS, &v.
ROYAL HOTEL, LITHGOW,
The leading resort for
Commercial Travellers, ar»d Tourists.
Tlie Largest Sample Rooms on the Western Line. Horses and Buggies for Hire.
Nothing hut the Best Brands of spirits sold over the bar.
Hugh Wallace, Proprietor. Late of Wallerawang.
Shipping.
j££UDDART, PARKER and CO 's LINE.
STEAM TO MELBOURNE AND
TASMANIA.
FROM HUDDART, PARKER’S WHARF:
FOR MELBOURNE WHARF DIRECT—
ELINGASIITE | 4000 tons | Saturday, April ]9, at noon.
FOR LAUNCESTON, VIA MELBOURNE—
transhipping to S.S. NEWCASTLE.
ELINGASIITE | 4000 tons | Saturday, April 19, at noon.
These magnificent Steamships have already established
a reputation for their accommodation, and their large size
insures passengers a maximum of comfort. The SALOON
CABINS are light and airy and very roomy. FORE-
CABIN is on main deck, loft v and well ventilated. Com-
plete sanitation and lavatori s. ELECTRIC LIGHTING
throughout the ships. Inspection invited on days of
sailing.
RETURN TICKETS AVAILABLE FOR SIX MONTHS.
For rates of Freight and Passage-money apply
HUDDART, PARKER & CO., Limited.
Offices and Wharf -Foot of Margaret-street.
||I'DDART, PARKER & CO.’S LINE.
STEAM TO MELBOURNE AND TASMANIA.
From lluddart, Parker’s Wharf.
For Time and Date of Sailing, see daily papers.
The magnificent steamships, BURRUMBEET and
ELINGASIITE, have established an unrivalled reputation
for their speed and accommodation, and their large size
ensures passengers a maximum of comfort. The saloon
cabins are light, airy and very roomy. The dining saloon
is full width of the ships, also magnificent music room,
with gentlemen’s smoking room and splendid promenade
deck. Fore-cabin is on the main deck-lofty and well-
ventilated, perfect sanitation and ample lavatories. Fore-
cabin passengers provided with victuals and rugs. Inspec-
tion invited on days of sailing.
l£c<sjfn Tickets available for Siv .Months,
For Fares and Freights apply
HrSIDART. I‘AKKEK A CO, (limited).
Office and Wharf; Foot of Margaret Street, Sydney.
■RTOKDDEUTSCHER L L O YIT.
A* IMPERIAL GERMAN MAIL.
Passengers are carried according to the requirements of
the English Passenger Acts of 1885 and 1863.
MONTHLY LINE OF DIRECT STEAMERS
from
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, and ADELAIDE,
to SOUTHAMPTON, ANTWERP, and BREMEN, via
COLOMBO, Aden, Suez, and Genoa,
taking passengers for London,
connecting from PORT SAID by DIRECT MAIL and
PASSENGER LINE to BRINDISI,
will be despatched as follows (if practicable):—
And thereafter every four weeks.
PASSAGE MONEY from SYDNEY,
£l4 to £57 10g.
RETURN TICKETS, available for NINE and TWELVE
MONTHS, at REDUCED RATES.
Passengers and Cargo are booked through to New York,
via Southampton.
Special facilities are afforded for bringing out relatives
and friends from the United Kingdom and Europe by pre-
payment of tire passage money in Australia.
For FREIGHT, PASSAGE, and all further particulars,
apply to FREDK. BETZ & CO., Agents, 5 O’Coimell-street.
tfHOMPAGNIE DES MESSAGERIES MARI-
V TIMES.
SYDNEY to LONDON.
OVERLAND FROM MARSEILLES via PARIS.
Steamers under postal contract with the Government of
France, calling at MELBOURNE ADELAIDE, KING
GEORGE’S SOUND, MAKE, SUEZ, and PORT SAID.
Passengers booked to KURRACHEE, BOMBAY,
MAURITIUS, and EAST COAST of AFRICA.
The service is carried on by powerful steamers of 4000
tons and 3000 effective h.p., built expressly for the Aus-
tralian and New Caledonian line, which will be despatched
as follows:
Steamers Commander i Leave Sydney! Leave Mel-
Steameis. commander. at n a , m . bourne! p.m
AUSTRALIA Didier .. . j April 25 April 28
OCEANIEN .. Poydcnot I May 25 May 2s
And thenceforward on the 25th of each month.
Rates of passage-money to Marseilles from £2O to £O5,
including table wines and Suez Canal dues on passengers.
RETURN TICKETS issued at the following rates: —
English interpreters meet through passengers for
London on arrival of steamers at Marseilles, and accom-
pany them to Paris ajjd Calais. N.B. - Passengers’ luggage
conveyed free of cost from Marseilles to London. For
freight, passage, and further particulars apply at the
Company’s Office, 15 Macquarie-place.
A. CONIL, Principal Agent.
SERVICE TO ENGLAND.
PENINSULAR AND ORIENTAL STEAM
NAVIGATION COMPANY.
The Company’s Royal Mail Steamships (under contract
with the Imperial, New South Wales, Victorian, and South
Australian Governments) will be dispatched from their
Wharf, Circular Quay, as under, for LONDON, calling at
Melbourne, Adelaide, Albany, Colombo, Aden, Brindisi,
Malta, Gibraltar, and Plymouth.
And henceforth every alternate week.
RESERVED CABINS ON MODERATE TERMS.
SA L< )ON PASSENG ERS MAY BREAK THEIR JOURNEY.
The arrangements for SECOND SALOON PASSENGERS
having been thoroughly re-organised, the accommodation
now offered is unsurpassed. Passage-money can he paid
here for passages from England. Liberal concessions made
to families. Passengers, cargo, and parcels are booked
through to India, China, and Japan. Cargo and parcels
will not be received after 3 p.m. on the day previous to
sailing. For all information apply at the Company’s
Offices, 247 Georgc-street. A. MACLEAN Acting Agent.
JOHN BRIDGE & CO.,
CIRCULAR QUAY, SUSSEX STREET, .0
DARLING HARBOUR,
WOOL BROKERS,
Hides, Tallow, Sheepskins, Kangaroo, Hear and
Opossum Skins, dec.
AUCTIONTEERS.
OWFS.-A.X3XT S-A.X.3E3SIMC3E3asr


Drapery, &c.
Special and Important Notice.
THE CENTRAL EMPORIUM,
GOB, 010, 01-2 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
JOHN LAWLER & SONS.
Extensive Alterations in Contemplation.
CLEARING OUT of THREE DEPARTMENTS!
Hoots, Clothing, I,tulles’ Drapery.
Goods in these lines to be SOLD AT and UNI) L 1!
COST !
JOHN LAWLER and SONS,
Finding the Enormous Increase in their Manufac-
turing' Business —in Wire Mattresses, Bedding,
and Furniture, Upholstery, &c. —
DEMANDS
Increased Space and Additional Room, have re-
solved to ABANDON the THREE DRAPERY
DEPARTMENTS, and devote the space occu-
pied by them to
General and Complete I'liiiiDiii ng.
John Lawler and Sons, therefore, Offer the
whole of their Superb and Extensive DRAPERY
STOCKS to the General Public and the Trade at
such Marked Reductions as will speedily effect a
Complete Clearance.
See our Price Lists for Boots and Shoes. See our
Price Lists for Clothing and Men’s Mercery. See
our Price Lists for Ladies’ Drapery, Dress Mate-
rials and Trimmings.
Avail yourselves of the advantages now offered,
never again likely to be repeated.
John Lawler and Sons,
608 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Boot Department.—List of Prices.
S. Wolf’s Men’s Cloth Top Calf Balmorals, 11s 9d
S. Wolf’s Men’s Cloth Patent Shoes, 11s
S. Wolf’s Men's Cloth Top Glacie Gol. E.S.,
12s 6d
S. Wolf’s Men’s Cloth Top Button Shoes, 11s 6d
Cove and West’s Kid Top Calf Gol. Bals. 14s
Cove and West’s Calf Shoes, 10s 6d
D. H. Pollock and Co.’s Cloth Top Calf Gol.,
E.S., 12s
D. H. Pollock and Co.’s Calf E.S., 10s
D. H. Pollock and Co.’s Kid E.S., H.S., 12s 6d
A. and W. F. Flatau and Co.’s Levant Top Calf
Gol. Bals., 6s
A. and W. Flatan’s Women’s Evening Shoes,
double straps, Is 9d
A. and W. Elatau’s Patent Leather, 2s Obi
A. and W. Platan’s Glacie Balmorals, 6s 6d
A. and W. Elatau’s Patent Vamp Calf Sol. Shoes,
5s 3d
S. Bostock’s Women's Glacie Kid Lace Shoes,
4s 9d
S. Bostock’s Women’s Glacie Kid Evening Shoes, 5s
S. Bostock’s Women's Glacie Button (good line), 12s
S. Bostock’s Women’s Glacie Lace (good line),
11 s 6d
F. Pinet’s Women’s Glacie Lace (low heel), 10s 6d
F. Pinet's Women’s Glacie Button (low heel),
!0s 6d
Snow and Bennett’s Women’s Lasting E.P.H., 3s
Snow and Bennett’s Women’s Lasting F.P. H.,2s 9d
Nathan Joseph’s Calf Kid E.S., 3s 9d
Nathan Joseph’s Calf Kid E.S., Vamp, 4s 3d
Women’s Glacie Kid Slippers, Is 3d
Infants’ 2 x 5 Boots, Is 3d
Infants’ 2 x 5 Boots, Is 6d
Infants' 2x5 Shoes, lid
Infants’ 2 x 5 Shoes, Is 6d
Girls’ Leather F.S., 7 x P>, 2s 8d
< Jirls’ Levant Lace, 7 x 10, 3s 9d
< Juris’ Levant Button, 7 -v 10. 4s
John Lawler and Sons,
608, 610 and 612 GEORGE STREET.
Drapery Department—List of Prices.
DRESS MATERIAL—
All-wool Beiges, 4id, 4|d yard.
Aberdeen Tweeds, 2Vi, 3fd, 41. yard.
Aberdeen double width, 6jd and Bfd yard
Foulie Cloths, all wool, 7fd, B|d yard
Milton Cloth, all colours, 5;/d, 7VI, 8d yard
French Cashmeres, Is 6d, Is 9d, 2s yard
British Cashmeres, KHd, Is, Is 3d
Zephyrs, from 13d to nvd yard
FLANNELS-
White Saxony, 7id, 9d, 10|d, Is 3d, Is 6d yard
White Welsh, l6|d, Is, Is 2d, Is 4d, Is 6d yard
White Twilled, Navy and Marone, llfd yard
Scarlet, Marone, and Blue, 7d, Bd, 9d, lOd yard
FL ANN ELETTE—
Very Stout, 3d, 4d, sd. striped and plain
HOSIERY—
Children’s Cotton Hose, all sizes, 4d to Is
Children’s Cashmere Hose, all sizes, 9d to Is 6d
Women’s Cotton Hose, all sizes, 3d to Is
Women’s Cashmere Hose, all sizes. Is to 2s
GLOVES—
Ladies’ and Children’s, from 6d to Is
BABY LINEN—
All descriptions half usual price
UNDERCLOTHING—
Greatly reduced in price
Ladies’’ greatly reduced in price
Children’s greatly reduced m price
MANTLES—
Children's Ulsters, Is lid to 6s 6d
Ladies’ Ulsters, 6s 9d to 12s 6d
Macintoshes, half usual price
HABERDASH ERY—
Job Lots of Buttons
Job Lots of Laces and Ribbons
Job Lots of Frilling and Collars
SUNSHADES—
All Silk, from 4s lid to 6s lid
BLANKETS, SHEETINGS, CALICOES,
CURTAINS.
TOWELLING, 3d a yd. TOWELS, from IVI up.
and
ALL CLASSES OF GENERAL DRAPERY
AT COST PRICE.
John Lawler and Sons.
Clothing Department—List of Prices.
Men’s Tweed Trousers, 3s Gd
Men’s Tweed Trousers and Vests, 7s 6d
Men’s Tweed Sac Suits, 12s Od
Our “ One Guinea” Suits, now 15s
West of England Tweed Suits, 17s 6d. 25s to 35s
Men’s Tweed Coats, Gs lid
Youths’ Tweed Sac Suits, 9s lid
Youths’ Tweed Trousers, 2s lid
Bovs’ Knicker Suits, 2s 9d, 3s, 4s, 5a to 10s
Boys’ Sailor Suits, 2s lid, 4s 6d to 9s
ALL OUR CLOTHING WE IMPORT DIRECT
From the Manufacturers,
W ALTHEN, GARDINER & CO., of BRISTOL.
, In onr SHIRT DEPARTMENT
We are selling the Celebrated Makers.
MTNTVRE, HOGG and CO.. BELFAST,
Drapery, &c.
Irish Linen Shirts, at 2s 3d, 2s (id, 3s, 3s (id, 4s, 5s
Boys’ White Shirts, Is Gd, Is lid, 2s Gd, 3a
Boy’s Colored Shirts, 9d, lOd, Is
THE HAT DEPARTMENT
Is complete with the Renowned Manufacturers’,
DIXON & OLDHAM, FINSBURY, LONDON,
Goods and the
NEWEST AND BEST SHAPES
Arc on Show.
Boys’ Felt Sailor Hats, Is Gd
Men’s Shakespeare Hats, Is Gd
Men’s Tweed Caps, 9d
Men’s Hard Hats, 2s Gd, 2s l id, 3s lid
The Very Best 3ioz. Felt, 7s Gd, 9s (id
MEN’S SOCKS, COLLARS, and TIES
We are
SELLING AT ENGLISH COST. ___
John Lawler and Sons,
GOB, 610, and Gl2 GEORGE STREET.
Carpet Department List of Prices.
SEVERAL LARGE SHIPMENTS just
opened in this Department of LINOLEUMS,
FLOORCLOTHS, CARPETS, MATTINGS,
FURNITURE COVERINGS, &c., &c.
CARPETS—
Good Tapestry Carpets, Is Gd, Is 9d, 2s, 2s Gd
per yard
Brussels Carpets, special value, 2s Gd, 2s 9d, 3s
Royal Wilton, special value, 6s per yard
RUGS—
Axminster, Burmah, English wool, &c.
FLOORCLOTHS—
A very large assortment of really good Cloths,
2s to 2s Gd per square yard
Also 3.4 and 4.4 wide, with borders, for passages
Very heavy and extra wide Cloths, from 3s Gd
to 4s per square yard
LINOLEUMS—
Good patterns, from 2s 3d to 2s Gd per square yd.
Heavy Cloth, 3s per square yard
Extra thick, soft as a carpet, from 3s Gd per
square yard
Toilet Bath Mats, with Borders
MATTINGS—
Several Shipments of China Matting to hand,
White and Fancy, from Gd per yard
TAPESTRY for FURNITURE COVERINGS
A splendid variety, new colorings and designs,
just opened. Plushes to correspond, Cords,
Gimps, &c., &c.
TABLECOYERS—
In Tapestry, Velvet, Turkoman, &c., from 2yd.
square "to 4yd. long, prices from 10s upward
TAPESTRY CURTAINS—
Several new lots for winter just to hand
Variety in style and colorings to suit every kind
of window, from 6s Gd per pair upwards
LACE CURTAINS—
All remaining lots will be cleared at reduction
in price
DRAPERY FRINGES—
From 4s per yard, in various colors and sizes.
John Lawler and Sons.
List of Prices of Goods in our
Furnishing’ Ironmongery Department.
Japanned Oak and Gold Toilet Sets, consisting of
Foot Bath 18in., Toilet Pail, Toilet Can, Bqt,
10s Gd set
Japanned Oak only Toilet Sets, same contents as
above, 9s 3d
Japanned Candlesticks, with china nozzle, oval,
Gs Gd dozen
Japanned Candlesticks, with china nozzle, round,
7s dozen
Japanned Candlesticks, with china nozzle, round,
with matchbox. 8s dozen
Tin Candlesticks, with extinguisher, Gin., 3s (id
dozen
Tin Candlesticks, with extinguisher, 7in., 4s 9d
dozen
Knife-cleaning Machines, 2 knives and carvers,
17s Gd, 255, 27s Gd
Knife-cleaning Machines, 3 knives and carvers,
32s Gd, 46s Gd
Wood-folding Dish Mats, oblong and oval, 2s 3d
set of six
Wood Trays, with ebony rims and handles, square
corners, 14in., 3s ; IGin., 4s ; 18in., 4s Gd
Wood Trays, with ebony rims and handles, round
corners, 14in., 3s Gd ; IGin., 4s Gd ; 18in., 5s Gd
Shoe Brushes, mixed, Is Gd. 2s Gd set of three
Shoe Brushes, pure bristle, 2s 3d, 2s 9d, 3s Gd set
of three
Lovelock’s Mincing Machines, No. 2,8 s Gd, No.
3,11 s Gd
Lovelock’s Mincing Machines, No. 4, suitable for
hotels, 24s
Charcoal Irons, with movable grates, turned and
straight spouts, assorted sizes, Gin., GHn.,
7in., 24s dozen
Fancy Tea Canisters, |lb., 3s ; 11b., 4s 9d dozen;
round, square, and octagon
Avery’s Weighing Machines, 71b., 10s ; 141 b.,
12s Gd
Dinner Sets, nice printed patterns, of 50 pieces,
21s and 22s Gd set
Dinner Sets, nicely selected patterns, of 57 pieces,
• 28s Gd set
Dinner Sets, nicely selected patterns, of 33 pieces,
17s Gd set 4
Mrs. Pott’s Smoothing Irons, polished steel, in
sets of three, with handle and stand, 6s Gd
American Meat and Vegetable Choppers, suitable
for hotels, &c., No. 1,16 s; No. 2,22 s Gd ;
No. 3,32 s Gd
American Mincers (Ames Plow Co.* New York),
No. 1,9 s Gd ; No. 3,15 s
American Single Sausage Fillers, suitable for
hotels, a very useful machine, 9s Gd
Japanned Waiters, 12in. oval, 6s, Bs, 10s dozen,
nicely assorted designs
Hair Brooms, good qualities, 22s Gd, 245, 30s, 365,
425, 48s dozen
Black Lead Brushes, 9s, 10s, 12s, 15s dozen, pure
bristles
American Revolving Cruets, nicely chased, 4
bottles, 8s Gd and 9s Gd ; 5 bottles, 9s Gd and
10s Gd. We can design on application
B.M. Spirit Measures, £ gills to 1 quart, 11s set
Heavy Plain Nobblers, 2s 3d dozen
B.M. Beer Measures, £ pint, glass bottoms, 245,
32s dozen
Cheavin’s Filters, 3-0, holds i gallon, 10s Gd: 2-0,
holds li gallon. IGs 6d ; 0, holds 2h gallons,
19s 6d ; 1, holds 3.\ gallons, 28s
Cups and Saucers, white and gold, 4s Gd by hhd,
open stock : 4s lid dozen
Printed Tea Sets, 44 pieces, G different patterns,
10s Gd set
TOILET SETS, nice printed patterns, largo size,
6 pieces, 8s Gd set
Toilet Sets, band and line, large size, 6 pieces, 8s
set
Toilet Sets, band and gold (pink), large size, 6
pieces, 12s Gd set
Tumblers, nicely engraved, 5s doz.
Wines, nicely engraved, to match Sherries, 5s doz.
Custards, nicely engraved, to match, 7s doz.
Jellies, nicely engraved, to match, 5s Gd doz.
. Champagnes, nicely engraved, to match. 10s doz.
Drapery, &c.
Tumblers, Crystal Etched Fern, 7s 9d doz., a
splendid line
Wines (Ports and Sherries), Etched Fern, to
match, Gs Gd doz., a splendid line
Custards, Etched Fern, to match, 9s Gd doz., a
splendid line
Jellies, Etched Fern, to match, 8s Gd doz., a
splendid line
Champagnes, Etched Fern, to match, 10s Gd doz.,
a splendid line
Clarets, Etched Fern, to match, Gs 9d doz., a
splendid line
Decanters (cut nock), Etched Fern, to match,
pints and quarts, 8s Gd, 9s (id per pair
Tumblers, cut hollow flutes and cut star bottom,
Gs Gd —we call special attention to this line
Tumblers (nobblers), cut hollow flutes, 8s doz.
Tumblers (English ales), cut hollow flutes, G to
quart, 4s Gd doz.
Tumblers (medium), plain, star bottom, 5 to quart,
2s 3d doz.
Tumblers, Fern engraved, 4s Gd doz.
Tumblers, moulded (fluted), 2s 3d doz.
Water Bottles, out neck and star bottom, 1 quart,
36s doz.
Water Bottles, cut neck, 1 pint, 14s doz.
Wines, Fern, small size, Is 9d doz.
Caraffe Cups, 4s Gd, Gs, Bs, 10s doz.
Glass Dishes, 2s 6d, 3s Gd, ss, 7s, 9s. 12s doz. — we
have large variety
Glass Compote or Fruit Stands, 5s Gd doz. and
upwards
Glass Jugs, plain, coloured, two pint, 14s doz.;
three pint, 18s doz.
Glass Jugs, engraved, 15s, 18s, 21s doz.
Bottles (Cruet) for American Cruets, cut and en-
graved (Mustard, Pepper, Vinegars), 11s Gd doz
Bottles (Cruet), moulded, 3s, 4s doz.
John Lawler and Sons,
608, 610, and 612 GEORGE STREET.
Furniture Department.—Price List.
Own Manufacture and Imported
KITCHEN FURNITURE.
Tables, 4 x 2,7 s Gd; 4-6 x 2-6, 10s. Gd ; 5 x 3,
12s Gd. If with Drawer, 3s, 2s Gd
Pine Safes, one door, 11s Gd and 12s Gd
Pine Safes, two doors and drawer, 15s
4ft. Open Dresser, one drawer, 19s Gd
4ft. enclosed bottom part only, 28s and 32s
AMERICAN CHAIRS, &c,
York Top Grecian-wove Seats, 3s Gd each (in oases
of 12)
5-spindle 14 D.W wove Seats, 3s 9d each (in cases
of 12)
Black and White Washingtons, No. 10, 2s Gdeach
(in cases of 12)
Large Arm Rooking Chairs, 10s Gd each (in cases
of 6)
Child’s Gem Combination Folding and Carriage
Chair, 22s
Child’s High Table Chairs, wood seat, strong, 40s
per doz.
Child’s High Table Chairs, cane seat, strong, 48s
per doz.
AUSTRIAN CHAIRS IN 3 DOZ. CASES.
No. Cane Seat Walnut Coloured Dining-room
Chair, 4s 9d
No. 14 Cane Seat Walnut Coloured Dining-room
Chair, 5s
No. 20 Cane Seat Walnut Coloured Dining-room
Chair, 5s 9d
No. 15 Cane Back and Seat Walnut Coloured
Dining-room Chair, with brace, 7s 9d
DINING ROOM TABLES, PINE TOP,
CEDAR LEGS.
4x3 Oval or Square, 10s Gd
5 x 3 Oval or Square, 16s Gd
Stained Walnut Oval Loo Tables, 24s Gd and 27s Gd
All Cedar Oval Loo Tables, 30s and 35s
DRAWING-ROOM FURNITURE.
Tapestry and Plush Suites of nine pieces, at
£9 10s, £l2 10s, £l4 10s, £l6 10s.
Tapestry and Plush Suites of five pieces, £7 10s,
£9 10s
Tapestry and Plush High-class Suites from
£lB 10s, to £34 10s.
Inlaid Occasional Tables, 4s Gd, 7s Gd, 10s Gd
Inlaid Italian Walnut Loo Tables, 325, 42s and
upwards
Pier Glasses and Overmantels, from 30s to 190 s
DINING-ROOM FURNITURE.
Cedar Small Chairs, Spring Stuffed in Leather
Cloth, 14s Gd
Cedar Small Chairs, Spring Stuffed in Haircloth,
15s Gd
Cedar Easy Chairs from 42s to 85s
Suites of Nine Pieces in best Leather £l4 10s,
£l6 10s
Suites of Nine Pieces, Mahogany Frames, in Real
Leather, from £l6los to £34 10s
Cedar Chiffoniers, 425, 47s Gd
Cedar Sideboards, Mahogany, Oak, and Walnut,
£7 10s to £35
Telescope Dining Tables, superior make, £G 10s
to £l4 10s
BEDROOM.
Three-drawer Chests, Pine and Cedar, 25s Gd and
27s Gd
Four-drawer Chests, Pine and Cadar, 28s Gd and
32s
Seven-drawer Chests, Pino Lined, 455. 525, 60s,
and 67s Gd
Pine Bedroom Suites, with Glass-door Robe, Mar-
ble-top Washstand, Toilet Table, Pedestal,
and two Chairs, £9 10s to £22 10s
American Walnut Suites, from £l6 to £47
American Ash Suites, from £IG to £4O
Swing Toilet Glasses, 3s Gd, 4s Gd, ;>s, GsGd, 8s Gd,.
10s to 25s
Washstands, Single, Pine or Cedar, 9s Gel, 11s Gd,
12s Gd, 15s
Washstands, Double, 20s, 255, and 30s
HALL AND LIBRARY.
Oak and Mahogany Hat and Umbrella Stand, 25s
to 160 s
Oak and Mahogany Writing Tables, leather top,
355, 455, 60s to 140 s
MISCELLANEOUS.
Chinese Cane Chairs, strong, 10s, 12s Gd, 15s, 20s,
and 25s
Chinese Lounges, 12s Gd and 20s
Cafe Marble-top Tables, iron frame, 30s, 40s, 50s,
and GOs.
John Lawler and Sons,
60S, 010, and 612 GEORGE STREET.
Bedding Department—List of Prices.
WOVEN-WIRE SPRING MATTRESSES—
No. 00.—2 ft. Gin., 3ft., 3ft. Gin., 4ft., 4ft. Gin.
Bs, 8s Gd, 9s 9s Gd, 10s,
No, o.—los, 10s Gd, 11s, 12s, 12s Gd
No. I.—Us, 12s, 12s Gd, 13s, 14s
No. 2.—A1l double Wire, stronger frames, 12s, 1.1, :
14s, 15s, IGs
No 3.—155, IGs, 17s, 18s, 20s, extra superior
No. 4.—The National close double-woven Wire,
extra heavy wire and frame, with a di vision in
the centre. This style we make to suit parties
who are sensitive to any motion whatever
arising from the sagging of the ordinary wire
Drapery, &«.
spring beds, but which by this device is en
tirely obviated. The fabric is cut through the
middle, so that each person has a distinct and
separate sleeping arrangement on the same
double bedstead. Price, 30s. each, to tit 4ft.
Gin. bedstead.
Wire Mattresses for children’s oots —4 x2,Bs Gd ;
44 x 24, 10s ; 5 x 3,12 s
Wood Bedsteads and Wire Mattresses combined.
They are made like the ordinary stump bed
stead, but the head and logs fold up. They
arc portable and ready for use at once. Note
the price—15ft. 2in. x 2ft, 3in., 17s Gd; 2ft.
Gin., 20s; 3ft., 22s Gd; 4ft. Gin., 30s, Most
valuable for hotels, camps, or attic rooms.
BEDSTEADS—
We have over £5OOO worth in stock, and are still
Half Tester Youths’ Bedstead, sft. Gin., x 2ft.
Gin., at 30s
Half Tester Children’s Cots, 20s, 235, 30s, 355, to
G°s
Folding Chair Bedsteads, with cushions, 22s Gd,
255, 30s
Folding Chair Bedsteads, with brass legs, 255,
355, 40s.
John Lawler and Sons*
Bedding’ Price List.
Hni.
MATTRESSES-
Fibre, best quality
Fibre, second qualil
Flock, best quality
Flock, second quality
Kapok, best quality
Kapok, second quality 15s
Hair, best quality
Hair, second quality
BOLSTERS—
Fibre
Flock ... ...
Kapok
PILLOWS—
Fibre, Is Gd ; Flock, 2s ; Kapok, 3s
Matresses for Cots, same price as 2ft. Gin.
xnatresses
Best Java Kapok, in 701 b. bales, 8d per lb.
Telephone No. 66. .
Telegraph Address — Lawler, iS/idtieg.
John Lawler & Sons
(Established 1860),
608, 610, & 612 George Street, Brickfield Hill,
SYDNEY.
Wire Mattresses & Bedding Manufacturers,
Upholsterers, Cabinetmakers,
DIRECT IMPORTER S O F
Iron and Brass Bedsteads, English Furniture,
Austrian and American Chairs, Carpets,
Floorcloths, Rugs, Mats, Art Curtains, Win
dow Blinds and Cornices, Overmantels, Pic
tures, Furnishing Ironmongery, Earthenware,
China and Glass.
Write for Furniture and Bedstead Design Book,
with Wholesale Price List.
Miscellaneous.
NOTICE.
AN A WINDY DAY,
U By the Author of “ Her Own Sister,” &0.,
Is continued in
TtAMPLY HERALD PART for MARCH,
I 1 which contains also the continuation of
SLANDERED MEMORY,
\ NEW NOVEL,
A BytheAuthorof ‘ ‘ The Bail iff’s Daughter, ”&c.
Also, complete Stories, Essays, Answers to
Correspondents, Cookery, Miscellanea, Enigmas,
Charades, Riddles, &o.
n AMPLY HERALD PART for MARCH,
1 The Australasian says :
“This favourite domestic magazine retains all
its old interest and variety.”
The
U AMPLY HERALD may be had in Half-yearly
I 1 Volumes and in Monthly Parts of all Colonial
Booksellers and Newsagents ; or the Monthly Parr
direct from W. Stevens, 421 Strand, London.
England, for 14s. per annum, post free.
London: W. Stevens, 421 Strand; and at all
Newsvendors.
13. H, SMITH & SON,
MANUFACTURERS * IMPORTERS OF
HTITg /IND OflPfi,
302 George Street, Sydney,
8 Doors South of Hunter Street.
&-N
A Large Assort
aient of English and
French Goods, from
the best Makers to
choose from.
Every description
of HATS and CAPS
made to Order.


Bavousky, the Nihilist, cannot get a pub-
lisher for his MSS'.' work on his creed. He says
be has “Five fundamental hatreds —Religion,
Marriage, Property, Government and Law.”
Rather a large order. Bavousky asks “ What’s
the good of snipping round the edges like Henry
George, Tyndall and Mona Oaird?” He main-
tains that “My five fundamentals are grounded
in the human heart, if you only have the- courage
to act on them.” Bavousky ought to be bottled
up, like Dr. Oupid, and uncorked about 1990.
Emperor William is “ credited with the
authorship of a just-published pamphlet, asserting
that the Emperor William and General Caprivi,
the newly-appointed German Chancellor, are
members of a secret league of patriots formed for
the purpose of uniting the Liberal party in the
Reichstag with the Oppositionists and the
Socialists.” Within fifty years any Hohenzollerns
who may be unhanged will discover that Emperor
William’s best move in 1890 would have been to
frankly proclaim to the people : “This Empire is
played out. lam a Republican myself, and with
jrour permission I am going to run for the Presi-
dency.”
Kyrle Bellew has been the means of heap-
ing more contempt upon the skulls of the very old
and very young Melbourne critics engaged to
grind out dry-as-dust sermons for the “ stupid ”
papers —meaning the papers that sandwich raw
slices of indecent facts (when they can get them)
between layers of indigestible duff, and pepper the
whole with political lies. It is Bellew, and not
Mrs. Potter, who has exposed the ignorance of
these unqualified specialists. With the exception
of one untamed nincompoop—honestly believing,
perhaps, that a fine part makes a fine actress—the
long-winded crew have reckoned up the American
lady as a spoilt amateur, whose evident earnest-
ness pleads successfully for a mitigation of her
** slating. ” In dealing with Bellew, however, they
all started with a solemn affirmation that the
little maccaroni in question was a cheap edition
of Irving. Not one of them has ever seen Irving,
so far as we can ascertain, and, as to the sucklings,
their play-going experience doesn’t extend beyond
Australia. Certainly none of the very old and
very “ leading” critics have seen Irving since he
became famous—a fact they admitted, in a left-
handed way, by saying “we are informed” that
Bellew merely reproduces the mannerisms of his
alleged model. Fancy a dramatic critic founding
his “ independent” opinion on that of a somebody
else almost as blind as the buffer he leads ! When
the Worth (of Paris) season started, The Bulletin
attempted to lighten the prevailing darkness
with an explanation that Bellew is no longer! a
slavish imitator of Irving (he was never such a
hopeless case as Flookton became many years ago)
and that, with faults enough upon his long-haired
head, he still was a pleasant surprise to people
who had studied Irving, and laughed at Bellew,
in England. The individual speaking for The
Bulletin on that occasion drew upon the over-
flowing wealth of his own personal knowledge and
can now point to Bellew’s performance in “La
Tosca ” and ask whether the Baron Soarpia jis
much more like Irving than any other fellow,
possessing thin, peculiar legs, is physically bound
to be ? There now ! 1
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
Ladies’ Silver Watches, 355. Dahms & Co., King-street
Arcade.
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
Building Sites, City of Perth, W. A. Flaps
Intercolonial Investment Co., Limited, 96 Bathurit-
street,‘Sydney.
Old-fashioned Jewellery modernised to perfection. De-
signs free. Dahms and Co., King-street Arcade.
The Bulletin acknowledges herewith in a
subdued and joyless key, the receipt from Delhi of
a sample of Lydia Yon Finkelstein’s wedding-cake,
which, after its long journey, exudes an aroma that
is not all bliss, and looks something like the re-
mains of a mature cockroach done to death by the
remorseless thump of the Post-office stamper.
That the fair and massive Lydia will have a good
time, may be taken for granted ; she has been
almost everywhere, and seen everything; countless
shekels of gold and silver have been added to her
original stock of brass and rewarded the ingenuity
with which she had and obtained the countenance
and support of the Church in her little struggle to
amass an honest competence with the assistance of
Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob —and let us not forget
R. S. Smythe and the giddy Solomon in all his
glory, whose stage harem was generally supposed to
be concealed behind the remnant of Turkey twill,
trimmed with mosquito-net out bias and em-
broidered with dilly-bags, which did duty for a
partition in the palace of that gay old potentate.
There are few better specs, than a pious show, if
properly handled (say by Archbishop Smythe
aforesaid), and it is just there and right on the
bull’s-eye that the great apostle of the Single-tax
stands to make his score. Mrs. Mountford nee
Finkelstein scooped the pool with her tinsel
illustrations of family life in old Judee ; and the
modern saviour of the nations, who is equally at
home with the Loard on the platform as in the
pulpit, is just engaged in raking together on
behalf of the Single-tax League all the lucre she was
unable to carry. The good parson whose proper
position is at a bun-worry or a cake-and-apron fair,
snoozles up to the proprietor of a godly specula-
tion in the true spirit of missionary enterprise,
uses his influence in “sassiety,” rounds up all the
wealthy land and mining share-boomers, the
retired publicans and pawnbrokers, the money-
lenders and the devourers of widows and orphans,
with the legal dingoes who pull them
through, and perhaps a C. or K.O.M.G. to give
an Imperial tone to the concern. Then the
daring showman storms the heights of Heaven
and drags the Lord of Hosts from his throne to
parade around his circus, in the sure and certain
hope that the result will be a steady flow of
boodle into the treasury. It is a good game
gentles, and draws like a quarter acre allotment
of mustard-plaster, and the man or woman who
can’t work it is of no account in the high-class
show business. An exhibition of padded legs set
to bad music and worse singing is at all times
remunerative in any community which comprises
a fair proportion of bald-headed social gimlets;
but the meek and lowly Kerristian who knows the
full market value of humbug gets there every time
by a less costly road, and without turning a hair.
The children of this world are but fools in com-
parison with the children of light in the utilisa-
tion of human frailties.
Ladies’ Silver Watches, 355. Dahms & Co., King-street
Arcade.
Macaulay says, Dr. Johnson frequently
offended more senses than one. The Doctor did
not use McDonald’s Perfect Nail Trimmer and
Cleaner. All chemists. Price one shilling.
“ Pendragon ” says the nastiest things possible
about Lay cock (speaking of a rumoured match—that
didn’t come off between Elias and George Bubear), and
proceeds to say : “ What a pity it is that some old-country
sportsman, well versed in our boat-racing history, is not
handy to donate a nice little prize for these two worthies !”
Which seems to be intended as a nasty jar for the
worthies.
Bona-Fide announcement. Highest cash price
given for all kinds of gent’s left off clothing.
Dress-suits for sale or hire. Letters promptly
attended to by QUITTENTON BROS., 11l
Russell street, MELBOURNE. [New number,
163.) 1
Medical
i>^
a
a*
Z 7
V
r
k
'A
7
/*
Infantile Loveliness
No mother who loves her children, who takes
pride in their beauty, purity and health, and in
bestowing upon them a child’s greatest inherit-
ance, —a skin without blemish, and a body nour-
ished by pure blood, should fail to make trial of
the Cuticura Remedies.
Cuticura, the great skin cure, and Cuticuea
Soap, an exquisite skin beautifier, prepared from
it, externally, and Cuticura Resolvent, the new
blood purifier, internally, are a positive cure for
every form of skin and blood disease, from pimples
to scrofula, from infancy to age.
Have been in the drug and medicine business
twenty-five years. Have been selling your Cuti-
cuha Remedies since they came West. They lead
all others in their line. We could not write nor
could you print all we have heard said in favor of
the Cuticura Remedies. One year ago the CUti-
CUEA and Soap cured a little girl in our house of
the worst sore head we even saw, and the Resolv-
ent and Cuticura are now curing a young gentle-
man of a sore leg, while the physicians are trying
to have it amputated. It will save his leg and
perhaps his life. Too much cannot be said in
favor of Cuticura Remedies.
S. B. SMITH & BRO., Covington, Ky.
Sold everywhere. Price: Cuticura, 50c. ; Soap,
25c.; Resolvent, $l. Prepared by the Potter
Drug and Chemical Co., Boston, Mass.
BABY’S
Skin, scalp and hair preserved and beau-
tified by the use of Cuticuba Soap,
When six months old, the left hand of Onr little
grandchild began to swell, and had every appear-
ance of a large boil. We poulticed it, but all to no
purpose. About five months after,, it became a
running sore. Boon other sores formed. He then
had two of them on each hand, and as his blood
became more and more impure, it took less time
for them to break out. A sore came on the chin,
beneath the under lip, which was very offensive-
His head was one solid scab, discharging a great
deal. This was his condition at twenty-two months
old, when I undertook the care of him, his mother
having died when he was a little more than a year
old, of consumption (scrofula of course). He could
walk a little, but could not get up if he fell down,
and could not move when in bed, having no
use of his hands. I immediately commenced
with the Cdticura Remedies, using ail freely.
One sore after another heaied, a bony mattef.
forming in each one of these five deep ones,
just before healing, which would finally grow
loose and were taken out; then they would heal
rapidiy. One of these ugly bone formations I pre-
served. After taking a dozen and a half bottles he
was completely cured, and is now, at the age of six
years, a strong and healthy child. „
Mrs. E. 8. DRIGGS,
612 E. Clay St., Bloomington, 111
Send for “ How to Cure Skin Diseases,64
pages, 50 illustrations, and 100 testimonials.
PIM
IPLES, blackheads, red, rough, chapped and
1 oily skin prevented by Cuticpra Soap.
Address: R. TOWNS & CO., SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Great Medical Reform!
Consult (FREE) HERE, EASSMIISBEN, the Celebrated Danish Herbalist,
Expert Specialist in all Private Complaints, Barrenness and Nervous Diseases.
\\ I
-/DENMARK
IJI iWi
%
%
\
\
%
%
%
%
%
%
"fi/J
¥
R
E
s
0
FI
>
s
I
0
s
i
V
3
Y
A
L
S
T
»
\jljjOfi
;h# H
s # cfll
oil0 il
l;
#
(0
;l
tans'
ITALITY
A Guaranteed Cure
for
Nervous Debility and
Lost Vitality.
22a. 6d. per Course.
Smaller liox , r is. (id.
Only Herbalist ixx Australia
That has received “Gold Medal” for Great Cures Performed, and is Honourably Mentioned in the “Centennial History of New South Wales
for Great Herbal Discoveries ; and who can prove that he has CURED OVER 20,000 PATIENTS.
Sole Proprietor and Discoverer of the Celebrated
DENMARK: VITALITY PILLS,
Which have beeii the means of Curing so many Thousands of Sufferers from Nervous Debility, Lost Vitality, Errors, Weakness, Despondency,
Impure Blood. 225. 6d. per Course ; Smaller Box, ss. 6d.
Registered,
G-eziuixie Testimonials.
To HERR RASSMUSSEN. —Dear Sir,—This is to certify that you
cured me of a very seiious blood disease, after many doctors had
failed.—JOHN REYNOLDS, Chappel-street, Leichhardt, Sydney.
To HERR RASSMUSSEN, the celebrated Danish Herbalist.—Dear
Benefactor, —I have much pleasure to inform the public that you
cured my wife of an internal complaint of a very serious nature, after
all the doctors had gi|en her up.—ARCHIBALD MACFARLANE,
Eden Cottage, Barney-street, Armidale.
To HERR RASSMUSSEN, Specialist in Nervous Diseases, Dear
Sir, —I hereby thank you for the great cure you performed on me for
a very complicated neryous affection, and I shall always recommend
you to sufferers from Nervous Debility.—PHlLLlP STEAD, 54 Parra-
matta-road, Annandalej Sydney.
To HERR RASSMUSSEN, Danish Herbalist.—Dear Sir and Bene-
factor, —It gives me great pleasure to testify to your wonderful skill
in the treatment of Disjease. You cured me of a terrible complaint
after the doctors gave hie up, and although it is four years since, I am
as well as ever. I shall recommend you to all. —Yours, gratefully, A.
RAMSDEN, Great Western Coffee Palace, Castlereagh-street, Sydney.
To HERR RASSMUSSEN, Specialist in Nervous Diseases.—Dear
Sir, —I hereby certify that I have been under your skilful treatment
for a very obstinate case of nervous debility, and that you cured me
with one course of ypur Vitality Pills.—D. M'NEILL, Hornsby
Junction, N.S.W.
IP
Opinions of tlae Press.
It is a well-known fact that HERR RASSMUSSEN, the Celebrated
Danish Herbalist, has performed many great cures during the past few
years, as his numerous testimonials will prove.—Sydney Bulletin.
HERR RASSMUSSEN.—We have been shown some excellent Testi-
monials of the great cures performed by Herr Rassmussen, the cele-
brated Danish Herbalist.—Australian Star.
HERR RASSMUSSEN has now been established in the colonies
for 10 years.— Sunday Times, April 28, 1888.
HERR RASSMUSSEN has become a celebrity in the curing of all
diseases of the nervous system. His name has become a wonder
throughout the Southern Hemisphere. He was presented with a Gold
Medal for some of his miraculous cures.— Balmain Leader, May 12,1888.
HERR RASSMUSSEN. — The remarkable cures which he has effected
are pretty generally known.—Balmain Observer, April 28, 1888.
We are perpetually receiving letters from HERR RASSMUSSEN’S
cured patients requesting us to make known to the public the wonder-
ful medical skill this remarkable man possesses, and he has just been
presented with a Gold Medal from several of his cured patients.
—Sydney Weekly News, May 26, 1887.
jHerr fl.a.ssixiussexi’s Herbal Jr-C-eixxecHeis. (REGISTERED.)
DENMARK VITALnjY PILLS. —Guaranteed to cure Nervous Debility, Lost Vitality, Errors of Youth and Despondency. Price, 225. 6d. per full course ; small box, 6s. 6d.
DENMARK FEMALE} RESTORER PlLLS.—Guaranteed to cure all complaints peculiar to Females, Irregularities, and eradicates complaints which cause barrenness.
Price, 225. 6d. per course ; small box, ss. 6d.
LOCK CURE PILLS. —Guaranteed to Cure all diseases of the blood, discharges, sores, and strictures. Price, 225. 6d. per course ; small box, ss. 6d.
| CONSULTATION AND ADVICE FREE.
I
All the above rortedies are made of PURE HERBS, and are forwarded unobserved. A valuable treatise on Nervous Debility, Private Complaints, and Barrenness, sent
free on receipt of 4d staimped addressed envelope. Consultation personally or by post, free. Patients are examined with the aid of the Microscope.
Address: - Herr RASSM.USSEN the Danish Herbalist,
Corner Cordon-atreet & Park-road., Pad.d.lngton., Sydney.
TRAMS—Take Paddington Tram to Paddington Tram Waiting-room.
S-
OENMARK
\
%
%
\
%
A
&
%
A
%
%
■lecy
Vlo
# TH
'H0
ClA
j)£#
l;
r
f
f 0
mmm
Re*
V
WITALUY
A Guaranteed Cure
for
Nervous Debility and
Lost Vitality.
225. (id. per Course.
Smaller Box sg. 6(i.


Business Announcements.
TURPIN & BRIAN,
Wholesale and Family Grocers,
616 George Street, Sydney,
ABB
/ RHMOTTXKTG —■
To those Spacious Prbmisbs formerly occupied
by R. S. TIGHE, Wholesale Grocer,
623 GEORGE STREET
SYDNEY.
LOOK OUT FOR FUTURE ISSUES.
NOTE THE ADDRESS:
623—George Street—623
Brickfield Hill, SYDNEY.
(Two Doors from Lawler’s.)
—THE—
Fresh Food & Ice Co.,
LIMITED,
HARBOUR STREET,
SYDNEY,
Are evidently determined to go ahead They are
now supplying Customers who take a Quart of
Milk and Over pbr Day at
THREEPENCE PER QUART!
This appears very vxmderfut, but vt is
quite true.
0T Weekly Accounts.
A. BOWMAN’S
LONDON MADE
Porpoise Hide Boots
Are Reduced from 30s. to 21s.
249 PITT ST., SYDNEY, Near Tattersall's.
Porpoise Hide Wears Twice as Long
as any other Leather.
They are noted all oyer London,
Birmingham and Liverpool. *
London Fashiona,
AND
Fresh Goods Every Fortnight.
Trade Supplied Wholesale at a Great Advantage,
\
»
o
c
31
m
LOT*
mmm
85
THIS valuable Lotion is (guaranteed to cure SWELLING
and SANDY SLIGHT, INFLAMED EYES and LIDS,
DIMNESS OF SIGHT, &c. It will be found very bene
ficial and cooling to those who have weak eyes, or whose
work compels them to strain their eyes. Highly
recommended by the leading Oculists.
Manufactured only by the Proprietor,
H. A. ROSIE
Dispensing and Manufacturing Chemist^
531 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Wholesale by the Proprietor and all Wholesale Houses.
Established 1858. By Post ss. 6d.
«T Manufacturer of Dr. SOUTHAN’S GOUT and
RHEUMATIC PILLS.
l;
U.A
S3
/L-Vg^
1/
o
ir.
3/fi
l;
Business Announcements.
O^RT;
a
0
A
V'
m
> 3
a
a
r —i
CT3
G3ll
HKTh
ROBERTS & CO.,
—W HOLESALE-
Ironmongers, Importers* Iron and Machinery Merchants*
AY AND ENGINE STREETS SYDNEY,
Head Office: 85 Gracechurcli Street, London, E.O.
IMPORTERS OF
Railway & Bridge Con-tractors’
Plumbers’
Squatters’
Requirements
IN
Great Variety.
IMPORTERS OF
Engineers’ and Blacksmiths’
Couchbuilders’
Mining
AGENTS FOR;
Korting’S Gu Engines —The best and cheapest yet made. Automatic self-governing, thus saving cost of gas.
Braddock’s Water and Gas Meters and Gas Lamps. ' Reading Iron Works Universal (Split) Pulley Wheels.
Howe’S Platform and Counter Weighing Machines and Weighbridges.
fMU
Guinness’ Extra Stout,
FIRST QUALITY.
Bass Pale A le,
FIRST QUALITY.
Sole Purveyors to thu
Colonial & Indian Exhibition,
London,
(By Special Appointment).
Wholesale Agents Balchin, Johnston & Co., Sydney.
/\ for Kupper’s EllaerfeldL Lager Seer
(Specially Brewed for Australia). Absolutely Free from Sediment.
ALLAN A. MARSHALL & CO.,
Engineers, Coppersmiths, Brass and Bei.d Founders,
Finishers, Plumbers, Ship & General Smiths,
Gasfitters, Art & Medieval Metal Workk i
ROLLER SKATES (any make) with RKASS or WOODEN WHEELS.
Verity’s Gas Fires, Heaters and Ventilators at greatly Reduced Prices —11,000 Fires already in ihc
Importers and Manufacturers of Diving Gear, Yaclit and Boat Work of every description in
Iron or Brass, Ships’ Single and Double Action Valve Closets, Fire Hydrants, Hose and all appliance i
Bon Accord Works, 9 Macquarie Place, Sydney.
m: r;piCA reform.
):(
'C'Z t'tm'
/£y S j, c £
T
#
&
rpHEKE exists a crying need for
the medical prof, ssion to stay
the quackery which is so rampant
in these colonies Men having no
medical qualifications nor aptitude
for the treatment of diseases, still
advertise with impunity as doctors;
and guarantee to do what they know
they are incapable of doing, and
thus deceive the public who are
caught by their specious and lying
advertisements, as is amply testified
by reading the exposures in the
Daily Telegraph from August 3
to 11, 1887.
A chief cause of this state of things
is that medical men from mistaken
notions of professional decorum,
and because they consider it infra
dig, refrain from entering the field
against uiese qu.icKs. so ioug as this prudery exists so long will this canker consume our youth. At the risk, how-
ever, of professional opprobrium I have decided to throw aside this false delicacy, and avow my sympathy with, and
readiness to treat such affections, in the hope of saving the young of both sexes from the ruin of health and mind
which consulting these quacks ensures, not to mention the ruin of their pockets.
A patient writes to me ; “lam in such a miserable state I would pay you what I could afford for a lifetime if
you could possibly be the means of letting ni know what health is, and perhaps saving me from suicide which seems
to be my only release if this appeal fails. Kindly and humanely do not allow it to be in vain, and vou will never regret
it. I have been victimised by a person calling himself a ‘doctor.’ My father (of course I did not let him know the
nature of my ailment) paid this person £7 75., all for nothing, for which he said he would guarantee a cure in three
months.” Now, if qualified medical men would advertise in such a way as to bring th ir names before thes ■ sufferers,
and convince them of their sympathy, cases like the above which unfortunately are of daily occurrence, would not
occur: groundless fears would not be excited, and where disease exists it would be safely and permanently cured. I
am a legally and highly qualified practitioner, and have for over 20 years devoted especial study to chronic, nervous
and special diseases of men and women, and I am therefore just.fied in guaranteeing a cure in all cases amenable to
treatment.
Sufferers from impaired vitality, or nervousness, should read my book on “Nervous Debility,” free by post for
Is., where they will find much useful information and direct : ona for self-cure. Those wishing a farther insight should
read my work on the “ Male Generative Function in Health and Disease,” free by post for 2s. 6d.
Consultation by Letter ... £l.
Dr. ALEX. PATERSON,
AM., M.D., F.H.u.S., Ed., M.R.C.S., Eno.,
157 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY.
Federated Squatters
-AND—
Farmers’ Co-Operative Association of Australasia, Limited,
QTJ-A-Y, SirZDZLsTIE^r.
WOOL and PRODUCE BROKERS, STOCK and STATION AGENTS.
Advances Made and Deposits Received at Current Rates. Correspondence Invited
Medical.
>0
t V
S?
(/A
r/
l;
IF SO,
DON’T MISS THIS!
What everyone says is bound to be true, and young
and old, rich and poor, physicians who recommend, and
patients who try
The Krupp Galvanic Chain Belt,
All agree in praising that most scientific of Electro
Therapeutical Appliances. For Rheumatism it is un-
rivalled. Lumbago at once succumbs to its power. The
Nervous are strengthened and the Debilitated restored to
perfect health and vigour. In short, the appliance is an
unfailing cure for all Nervous, Sexual, or Chronic Diseases,
and is GUARANTEED to ABSOLUTELY CURE, com-
pletely and lastingly, the following complaints:—
Dys.epsia, Neuralgia, Pains in the Back and Chest,
Lumbago, Catarrh, Rheumatism, Dumb Ague,
Nervous Debility, Paralysis, Kidney Complaint,
Spinal Disease, Female Weakness, Diseases of the
Liver, Impotence, Seminal Weakness, Diabetes,
Sciatica, Atrophy, Gout, Indigestion, Asthma, Piles,
Epilepsy Spermatorrhoea, Specks before the Eyes,
Excessive Heart Palpitation, Defective Memory.
An Unfailing Cure For Varicocele.
It is a PORTABLE BODY BATTERY, and contains
special appliances for both sexes ; therefore, why waste
your money and health by procuring and taking USELESS
DRUGS? Electricity, when properly applied, is acknow-
ledged by all leading and unprejudiced physicians to be
the only safe and radical cure for Nervous and Sexual
Diseases, and the thousands of testimonials received by
the Krupp Belt Co. from leading personages throughout
Australasia prove the unquest enable curative properties
of Electricity as applied by the appliance above referred to.
Our confidence in this appliance is so complete, that
we send the Belt out on trial, and guarantee it
to give perfect satisfaction. For full particulars as to
terms, etc., send for our large illustrated treatise, free,
in which these Belts are fully illustrated, the action of
electricity on the nervous system explained, and a lot of
useful information on nervous and sexual diseases given.
This treatise also contains facsimile of testimonials received
from some of our clients who have tried our Belts. The
originals of these testimonials produced on application.
RT The prices of the Krupp Galvanic Chain Belt and
Suspensory are from £l.
Sole Inventor Carl Krupp.
Business Manager . . A. W. Courtney.
Address all communications to the
Krupp Galvanic Chain Belt Co.,
Box 647, G.T.0., Sydney, N.S.W.
Remember—The K.G. Chain Belt cures without medicine,
is easy to wear, is sent on approval, and the first cost i»
the only cost.
JNDISPENSABLE JOB RADIES
AND ALL PERSONS
'vl-fr.i'
s.Nosnow
Cocoa Butter Soap is a real skin-beautifier, and a balm to
young and old alike.
MODBON & CO., PERFUMERS & TOILET SOAP MANUFACTUaOTS,
FRANKKOKT-ON-TIIK-MAINK.
LONDON: 32 & 33 HAMSKLL-ST., B.C. PARIS; 29 RITE RADZIWIUL
Full guarantee for perfect purity is offered by tb«
sole Manufacturers, Mouson & Co.
JULIUS GOLDSCHMIDT & CO.,
*3l TLARKNCE-ST., SYDNEY,
SOLE *GENTS FOR AUSTRALASIA,
PLOUGH-SHARES,
mnmg'SgAm ploc ma
IN EQUITY.
Hornsby y. Hudson.
notio in
TO THK
ranting Commuii j of lew Sotli Wa. es.
HUDSON BROS., Ltd.,
Are still making the Shares which formed
the subject of this great lawsuit. They
are now branded
DEE
and their quality is better than ever.
V'A
HUo
tu
m
m
Farmers desirous of enconraging Colonial
Industry can obtain these Shaies from out
Local Agent.
NOTE—Trial samples free of cost.


medical.
* 4
8-
>M^ssa!i!ar&^//
mJi!:i!M' ! aaa
y}rl \ l \ EUREKA
M
ELECTRIC CELT.
f/>
m
V
A NEVER FAILING- CURE FOR ALL.
Diseases of the nervou-u systell
Complete with Suspensory Appliances from £l. 0. 0 and
upwar Is. This famou Electric, Magnetic Bolt will cure
NERVOUS DEBILITY, Seminal Debility, Impotence,
and all weakness caused by indiscretion. ains in the
Back, Lumbago, Giddiness, Rheumatism, Kidney and
Bladder complaints, and iu fact any disea: eof the Nervous
bystem. The currents are steady and constantly felt by
the wearer. It his great improvements over all other
belts, we are willing to furnish those belts on 30 dtr-s
trial, and accept payment after they Lave proved them*
selves what we repiesent them to be. Those belts are
made for the specific purpose of producing a continuous,
mild, soothing current of electricity through all the weak-
ened parts, restoring them to health and vigorous strength,
even the worst case permanently cured in three mouths.
It is more convenient to wear than any other B' It.
A Book illustrated, containing full information and testi-
monials from prominent people throughout Australia,
and informing persons how they may obtain these belts
without paying for them until they have proved them com-
petent to cure any disease of the Nervous System, will be
forwarded to any address on receipt of a 2d stamp fur
postage.
AddressVOLT AIC CONTPAJT3T
BoX 916, (i. P. 0,. bYONKV
Dr. James D. Lleweliyn,
(reoisiered)
SPECIALIST in
GENITO-DEINAET DISEASES,
May be CONSULTED at’
-3 2S LONSDALE STREET—
fbetiveen Sioamton do Elizabeth StaJ,
MELBOURNE.
Consulting Hours—lo to 2; 7to 9,
Mornings, 10 to 11.
Sunday
All Personal Consultations are free ; by letter the
Fee is £l, which is inclusive of.medicines.
BARRY’S
Trisopteniis
FOR
THE HAIR
& 1801 0
An elegant dress
ing. exquisitely per
fumed removes all
impurities from the
scalp, prevents baldness and gray hair, and
causes the hair to grow Thick, Soft and
Beautiful. Infallible for curing eruption?
of the skin, diseases of the glands, muscles
and integuments, and relieving cuts, burns,
bruises, sprains, &c.
Barry’s Pearl Cream
Imparts to the darkest skin a clear, natural
white, tinged with the faintest rose-blush
It speedily removes wrinkles, freckles, sun
burn and tan, and mantles the faded cheek
with youthful bloom and beauty
Barry’s Hair Dy©.
Put up in two forms, with and without
a preparation Without the preparation
gradually colors the hair any shade desired,
from a light brown to a black With the
preparation, instantly colors the hair a na-
tural jet black the moment it is applied.
Caution- None of thesp preparations gen
uine without the trade mark of Barclay
& Co , New York, affixed to each bottle
|3r A BLESSING IN EVERY FAMILY.
HOLLOWAY’S PILLS AND OINTMENT.
There is not a country in the civilised world whor
the healing virtues of thes cc grand medicines have not been
recognised by thousands of siul'erora. in ad the ordinal '
ailments of humanity their beneficent action is at once
recognised. Fullest directions are supplied for their us
in every disease. IF YOU SUFFER, TRY THEM. Mann
factured only at 70 New Oxford-st., London. (W” Pur-
chasers should look to the Label on the Boxes and Pots.
If the address is not 523 Oxford-street, London, they arc
spurious.
LOONG SHAN TEA HOUSf
NOW OPEN,
Qnong Tart Co.’s
EXTENSIVE NEW PREMISES
(Nearly opposite' Theatre Royal).
FIRST-CLASS (4 R ILLS.
As well as all kinds of Refreshments, may
be obtained from 7.30 a.m. to 11,30 p.m.
CUP OF DELICIOUS TEA.
ICED DRINKS OF ALL KINDS, &c.
The rooms are splendidly furnished and
fitted up. In addition to the large and
well - appointed Refreshment Rooms,
gentlem n will find on the Second Floor
Commodious and Comfortable Smoking
and Conversation Rooms, furnished with
Chess, Draughts, &c., &c.
TO THE LADIES.
On the First Floor will be found Nice
Private Room for Ladies, convenient for
Wilting, Reading, &c., also Retiring
Rooms and Lavatory, with both hot and
cold water laid on. Inspection Invited.
Q
U
o
N
G
T
A
R
T
C
o
M
P
A
N
Y
c
t
o
K
G
T
/
1
L
V:
r
B:
I*
Finest, Teas imported —Packets and
upwards supplied. Orders promptly at-
tended to.
137 KINO ST It F.F.T, SYDNE Y
Medical.
A WONDERFUL"* MEDICINE.
Beecham’s Pills
Cil4
&
\P
%
PATENT
w
PILLS
&
»
Are universally admitted
to be worth a Guinea
a Box tor bilious
and nervous disorders,
such as wind and pain in
the stomach, sick head-
ache, giddiness, fulness
and swelling after meals,
dizziness, and drowsiness,
cold chills, flushings of
heat, loss of appetite,
shortness of breath, cos-
tiveness, scurvy, blotches
on the skin, disturbed
sleep, frightful dreams,
and all nervous and trem-
bling sensations, &c. The
first dose will give relief
in twenty minutes. E cry
sufferer 5g earner ly invited to try one box of these
Pills, and they will be acknowledged to be
Worth a Guinea a Box.
For females of all ages these Pills are invaluable,
as a few doses of them carry off all humors, and
bring about all that is required. No female should
be without them. There is no medicine to be found
equal to BEECH AMS PILES for removing any
obstruction or irregularity of the system. If taken ac-
cording to the directions given with each box they will
soon restore females of all ages to sound and robust
health. This has been proved by thousands who have
tried them, and found the benefits which are ensured by
their use.
For a weak stomach, impaired digestion and all disorders
of the liver, they act like “ MAOIC,” and a few doses will
be found to work wonders upon the most important
organs in the human machine. They strengthen the
whole muscular system, restore the long-lost complexion, j
bring back the keen edge of appetite, and arouse into ac-
tion with the ROSEBUD of health the whole physical
energy of the human frame. These are “ FACTS” tas ified
continually by members of all classes of society ; and
one of the best guarantees to the nervous and debilitated
is. Beecham's Pills have the largest sale of any patent
medicine in the world.
Beecham’s Mamc Coimh Pills.
o o
As a remedy for Coughs in general, Asthma, Bronchial
Aff Cons. HoarSe -ss, Shortness of Breath, Tightness
and Oppression of the Chest, Wheezing, &c., these Pills
stand unrivalled. They are the best ever offered to the
public and ill speedily remove that sense of oppression
and difficulty of breathing which nightly deprive the
patient of rest. Let any person give Bbbcuam s Coroll
Pills a trial and the most violent Cough will in a
short time be removed.
Prepared only and sold wholesale and retail by the pro-
prietor, Thomas Beecham, Chemist, St. Helens, Lancashire,
England, in boxes at Is. lid. and 2s. 9d. each.—Sold by
all Druggists and Patent Medicine Dealers everywhere.
N.B.—Full directions are given with each box.
CONSULT PROFESSOR SELBY,
376 Cleveland Street, Surry Hill-, Sydney,
Personally or by letter on Chronic Complaints
of the Nervous System, Diseases of the Urinary
Organs and all Impurities of the Blood. A Positive
Cure in all cases am. ndable to treatment. Suf-
ferers should read the Crofesto/’s valuable treatise,
sent post free to all who send their address. It
contains Advice on Marriage, worth its weight
in gold.
EPPS’S
GRATEFUL—COMFORTING
COCOA.
DP. WESTCOTT’S AMENORRHXEA
PILLS for Ladies, when taken for a few
days before, quickly correct all irregularities
from whatever cause arising ; 2s. fid. and Is. 6d.,
by post 3s. and ss. W. fl. SOUL and CO., 190
Pitt-street, Sydney, Agents.
Musical.
INGHAM’S
PATENT SCALE INSTRUCTOR
FOR THE—
IPI.A IST OZHOIRTIE] _
PUPILS can obtain the above at once, and the best
way to illustrate its usefulness to them is to sup-
pose a man to live to be a hundred years old and never
to have seen a Piano, he would, with five minutes’
instruction, he.ftble to play the most difficult Major, and
Minor Seales on the instrument.
Miscellaneous.
F. C. NICHOLLS & Co.,
WHOLESALE
Confectioners & Pastrycooks*
City Buildings:
736 G-eorge S'fci’eo’fc, 736
HATMA E K E T.
Steam Works :
517, 619, 621, 539, 541 HARRIS STREET.
Wedding Cakes, &c., Made to Order.
WALTER HOPE,
General ’Merchant & Commission Agent,
199 SUSSEX STREET, SYDNEY.
f CONSIGNMENTS of all Produce, Live Stock, etc.,
y J received and realised in the best markets. Account
tales and Proceeds remitted the day after sale. Orders
\ ecu ted for all Goods from Sydney at Lowest Wholesale
rices
Speciality, Pure-bred and Pedigree Stock of all de-
■riptions Bought or Sold on Commission. All comijumi-
it ions referring to Pure-bred Poultry a wl Eggs for Setting
be addressed as usual to WALTER HOPE, Bonnyrigg
rizc Poultry Farm, Liverpool, N.S.W.
• PECIAL NOTICE.—The Sydney Bulletin.
I'asmanian Edition Publishers, FITZ-
GERALD BROS. übscription (payable strictly
a van o). Six Shillings and Sixpence per qnnr
er, or One Pound per annum.
The Bulletin will bo on Sale every Friday at
He Office. George Street. Launceston, or from the
Runners In the street.
Business Annoimcem nts
ri' HE BANK OF NEW ZEALAND.
Bydvey Buanchiw :
04 PITT STREET, and 588 GEORGE STREET.
Paid-up Capital ... ... £1,125 000
The Bank has Agents in ail the principal cities
throughout the United States of America mid
Canada, and can offer soecial facilities for dealing
in Bullion, Bills of Exchange, Commercial and
Travellers’ Letters of Credit.
Drafts issued and Bills collected on most favour-
able terms, at rates which can bo ascertained on
application.
N. F. GIBLIN, Manager,
H. HILDER,
BOOT UPPER MANUFACTURER
IMPORTER OF
ENGLISH AND FOREIGN LEATHER,
Elastic Web, Grindery, *ic. f
Wholesale and Retail Leather Merchant
539 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
T
m
a.
m
&
9>
%
$0
%
a
fc?
if
x
EVERY
DESCRIPTION
HAIR WORK DONE
PRIVATE.
ROOM S
FDR LADIES
221, 24
/ROYAL ARCADE
MELBOURNE
J. SITTERLIN,
FROM PARIS,
Ladies’ Hairdresser. Wigmaker. St Perfumer,
25 SYDNEY ARCADE, SYDNEY.
HISTORICAL AND FANCY HAIRDRESSING A
SPECIALTY.
Manufacturer of All Kinds op Theatrical
and Street Wigs.
Aiiimoiiiatol Quinine,
The most efficient Hair Lotion, to prevent prema-
ture baldness.
Sitterlin’s Vegetable Hair-dye,
The only Hair-dye in the colonies to restore Light
Hair to its natural colour. All shades.
Success G-uaranteed..
MANUFACTURING HATTERS,
GEORGE STREET
SYDNEY
IMPORTERS OF ALLTHE
if NEWEST SHAPES.
And at ALBERT STREET, BRISBANE.
&
JJ
' ~A¥: m* *S.>
*2SS.i>
• *'■••
fl>
THE BEST
IN THE WORLD
/\OCH
me
’/
PO
wv MANUFACTORtO ftV ~ ,
fjjgl JbMCS CHANHOk sSVariovrS* A'ZZS
U, all S*ec**4 f S^rtAttfir/y
Business Announcements.
CJBHE THREE GREAT LIGHTS?
The Needles Patent Gas-making Marh ne;
The Harvey Patent Safety Kerosene Lamp;
And the New Era Portable G s Lamp.
The Harvey Lamp has been adopted by the
Railway Commissioners for lighting the Sydney
trams. We were awarded the Highest Order of
Merit and Special Mention by experts at the
late Melbourne Exhibition for our lighting
mediums. Over 6000 Harvey Lamps, are in use
in this colony, and for all lighting purposes are
giving universal satisfaction. Those Lamps can
be seen on one..of the North Shore ferry-boats,
and are suitable for all classes of vessels. The
Inventor offers £2OO to anyone producing as good
a Kerosene Burner.
Patentees for Australasia:
H. T Sm'th Si Co , 454 Kont St. South. Sydney;
14 Arcade, Apelaidk, S.A.; Argent Street, Broken Rile;
Park-side Iron Works, Melbourne.
—THE—
Art Furnishing Warehouse.
BEARD, WATSON & CO.,
361 George Street, SYDNEY,
Direct attention to their Magnificent Stock of
Carpets, Floorcloths, Linoleums,
And other Floor Coverings, in the
NEWEST DESIGNS A ARTISTIC (OEOIKI.V
Art Decorations, Upholstery Work and
Window Draping a Speciality.
All Orders executed bp a Staff op Experienced
Workmen, and Special Attention given to the carry-
ing out of Customers' wishes with t -mutuality and
promptitude.
Hotels.
PFAIILERT’S JiOTEL,
SYDNEY, NS.W.,
Opposite the Park, Vv/nyard Square.
(Under New Management.)
f pHIS for 25 years well-known First-class Central Hotel,
*- recently thoroughly renovated throughout, has every
comfort and attention of a home. The Cuisine Department
is under competent French supervision. Dining Hoorn
open for Non-Residents. Open-air Recreation Garden.
\ well-ventilated Billiard Room adjoining Recreation
Ground (three Alcock’s best Tables), under the manage-
ment of A. Buckingham, late of Empire Hotel. Wines
and Spirits of the very best quality only, and the Finest
and Coolest Bar in Town
HOT AND COLD BATHS.
NIGHT PORTER. French
German
Telephone No. 150. Italian
Spoken.
SPECIAL SUITES FOR FAMILIES.
CHAS. FIRCHT ... Manager.
WfiSTERN' HOTEL,
Warrnambool, Vletoria.
THIS old-established and well-known Family
and Commercial Hotel combines all the
requirements of a First-Class Hotel with home
comforts.
It is in full view of the sea and within a short
distance of the picturesque scenery of the Hopkin’s
River, which affords the finest Hod and-Fly Fishing-
in the colony.
Arrangements made for the Hire of Rowing and
Fishing Boats and Fishing Tackle. Bait, etc.,
supplied. 8W Good Shooting in the immediate
neighbourhood.
It is also within Two Minutes’ walk of the Hot
and Cold Sea Water Baths, which are unsur-
passed in the colonies.
1.1 very and I.el ling Stables.
Booking Office for Cobb & Co.’s Coaches. Thos.
Cook & Sons’ Hotel Coupons taken.
GEORGE W. CLARE - Proprietor.
THE GEORGE HOTEL
(oppodt< JRoffavap Station, vrar Bath*),
St. Kilda, Victoria.
First-class Family & Commercial Hotel
£2T For particulars, apply to
‘JET 1 . WIMF*OX.E,
PROPRIETOR.
O
O T E L,
Ten
Y A L H
Esplanade,
ST. KILL) A. VICTORIA,
Facing Beach, close to Pier and Baths
min tes from Station.
H. MOONEY - - - - Proprietor.
LIVERY LETTING STABLES ATTACHED.
Telephone 082.
First-class Accommodation for Visitors
JjONG-’S IMPERIAL HOTEL
TOOWOOMBA, QUEENSLAND.
Acknowledged the Best Hotel on the Daring
, Downs. First-class Accommodation.
Private Suites First Class Sample Itooms
Conveyance Meets Every Train.
JOHN LONG - - Late of New


SHEVILL & CO.,
Corner Queen Street and Flinders Lane,
MELBOURNE.
mercantile auctioneers,
H'"" Land, and Estate Agents,
.lii
-■
I* ■
111
4
i
JJ
Advance ■ made against shipments of Merchandise
and' Colonial Produce.
Daily Sales held at the r Commodious
New Rooms.
OUTDOOR
Furniture & Land Saks Conducted.
Branch
Ofkicks
32 Chapel St., Prahran. 'j
2 Albert St., Windsor, j
BRANCH
Offices-
JL
l;
I
l;
-KTETW
FURNITURE
WAREHOUSES,
York Street, Wynyard Square, Sydney,
Now supply the General Public as well as the Trade.
10,COO Bedsteads,
From lOa. 6d. to £35.
HOT and CO'LB >
Seawater Baths.
Warr.nambool, Victoria.
HYGIEN IC, + CU R ATIYE.
Ct'KKH
SCIATICA, RHEUMATISM,
ITervous & Skin Dissasss.
Testimonials from nil parts of Uio
Colonies.
Water direct from Southern Ocean
pumped by (fas motor, retaining all
natural qualities ; tree from objec-
tions of Bay water. Largo swim-
ming basins for ladies and gentle-
men. Marble plunge baths, hand
someiy appointed. Bracing air,
charming scenery, fishing, shooting,
beautiful drives place Warrhambool
.in the front rank as a sanatorium. .
Tliomas Rosa,
TOBACCO &, CIGAR IMPORTER,
27 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY,
(Corner of Pitt Street.)
A large stock of Genuine Hataunali Cigars, of tho
choicest Brands to select from.
’Sole Importer of the Celebrated “ Flor rtc Kouito ”
Brand of Cigars and “ Empire Cigarettes.”
Palls Pridge Pamily Hotel,
Falls Bridge, Melbourne.
This magnificent Hotel, containing fiO Double
and Single Rooms, is splendidly furnished and
perfectly ventilated.
Hot and Cold Plunge and Shower Baths.
Electric Bells. Telephone 1217. Billiards, i be.
Terms Strictly Moderate.
J. H. DUBRANT ... Manager,
Late of the South Australian Club Hotel, Adelaide.
Free Prescriptions
Are to be found in the “la girt and Bite,
for the Speedy Cure of Nervous Debility and
Kindred Diseases, &c. A copy of this book mil
be sent 'Free, sealed, for Six Fenny Stamps,
t €SS'~~~ m . , ■
S. WARD ■& CO.. SYDNEY PHARMACY,
76 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
tr
-
Iftuutiugton Mill
PARKE & LACY GO.,
MINING H HYDRAULIC ENGINEERS
GENERAL MACD NEEY MERCHANTS,
Rock Breakers,
9
Know eV I'umps
&c., &c., &c.
187 & 139 Clarence Street,
kt.s.w.
And SAM FRANCISCO, CALIFORNIA.
Wcstlujiliouse KSkineg.
TANGYES, EIMiTED,
Ray St., Haymarkot, Sydney,
ENGINES,
2 to 50 h.f.
BOILERS,
1 to 35 H.i*.
STEAM PUMPS
For all purposes.
CSIML ?®P2,
2" to 40" Hischarge.
HAND POMPS.
Saw Benches.
Latliea.
mm jim,
&<„ &c.
■um
■ y ietfL
WINCING ENGINES,
Hauling Engines.
Battery Engines.
Saw-mill Engines.
nUL ENGINES.
ENGINES
tor
Electric Lighting.
Vertical Boilers.
(OKM'ii itoin;K!<.
&c., &c.
NVV L-- a 1 those requiring Machinery of any kind for any .purpose, large or small, to write for particulars and prices. From the extent of our stock we are generally able to give immediate delivery.
Visitors, whether buyers or n t, are always welcome to inspect the magnificent display in our new and extensive Showrooms,
133 13 5 JESLJIL.'Sr S T XI. X 3 3ES T, XX -A. 'ST -/fk. H JSS 33 "I I ', S 3 "ST X> 3XT 33 "ST.
3.2 0,
131,
